.^g^..*vflFP8;v?^p^ 


'^<S£?«Gfc«.sr'''*'^-' 


BV  3271  .J7  W3  1853  v.l 
Wayland,  Francis,  1796-1865 
A  memoir  of  the  life  and 
labors  of  the  Rev.  Adoniram 


(^  ^/.^^  ^/^^Z-7-^Z^^ 


^  ^'  ''«'«^c7> 


'■y% 


ju:i 


%ftR|r\L  St€ 


# 


MEMO  III 


LIFE     AKD     LABORS 


REV.  ADONIMM  JUDSON,  D.  D. 

B  T    ' 

FRANCIS  VaYLAND, 

PRESIDENT    OF    BROWN   UNIVERSITY. 
To  preach   the  gospel   in   the  regions   beyond.  —  2  Cok.  x.  16. 

IN    TWO    VOLUMES. 

Vol.  I. 


BOSTON : 
.-^PHILLIPS,    SAMPSON,    AND    COMPANY. 

18  5  3. 


Entered,  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1853,  by 

EMILY  C.  JUDSON, 

In  the  Clerk's  Office  of  the  District  Coxirt  of  the  Northern  District  of  New  York. 


STEKKOTYPED  AT  THE 
U  O  a  T  O  N     STEREOTYPE     F  O  V  tl  V  11  V  . 


riii;ss  or  g.  c.  rvUJD,  cornuill,  bostca 


PREFACE. 


When,  in  compliance  with  the  request  of  the 
Executive  Committee  of  the  American  Baptist 
Missionary  Union,  and  of  the  widow  of  the  late 
Dr.  Judson,  I  undertook  to  compile  the  follow- 
ing Memoir,  I  supposed  that  a  large  amount  of 
his  correspondence  and  other  writings  would  be 
easily  accessible.  In  this  respect,  however,  I  was 
entirely  disappointed.  From  peculiar  views  of 
duty.  Dr.  Judson  had  caused  to  be  destroyed  all 
his  early  letters  written  to  his  family,  together 
with  all  his  papers  of  a  personal  character. 
Mrs.  Ann  H.  Judson,  from  prudential  reasons, 
during  their  captivity  in  Ava,  destroyed  all  his 
letters  in  her  possession.  Manuscripts  were  also 
consumed  by  the  burning  of  Mr.  Stevens's  house 
in  Maulmain.  Dr.  Judson's  correspondence  with 
Dr.  Staughton  perished  by  the  shipwreck  of  a 
vessel  on  the  passage  from  Philadelphia  to  Wash- 

3 


4:  PREFACE. 

ington.  Last  of  all,  his  letters  to  his  mis- 
sionary brethren  in  Burmah  were  lost  by  the 
foundering  of  the  ship  which  was  conveying 
them  to  this  country.  My  materials,  therefore, 
consisted  chiefly  of  his  official  correspondence, 
much  of  which  had  been  published  in  mission- 
ary periodicals.  To  these  I  have  been  able  to 
add  such  letters  as  had  escaped  destruction,  to- 
gether with  very  valuable  reminiscences  from  the 
pen  of  Mrs.  Judson.  Enough,  however,  has  been 
preserved  to  present  his  missionary  character 
with  remarkable  distinctness.  His  opinions  on 
many  subjects  can  never  be  recovered,  but  the 
record  of  his  deeds  is  beyond  the  reach  of  both 
fire  and  flood. 

My  grateful  acknowledgments  are  due  to  the 
secretaries  of  the  American  Baptist  Missionary 
Union,  the  Eev.  Solomon  Peck,  D.  D.,  and  the 
Rev.  Edward  Bright,  D.  D.,  for  the  facilities 
which  they  have  aflbrded  in  the  prosecution  of 
my  labors.  They  have  placed  at  my  disposal 
every  paper  on  their  files  which  could  add  to 
the  interest   of  the  Memoir,  and  have  rendered 


PREFACE.  O 

me  efficient  aid  in  every  part  of  my  undertaking. 
To  Dr.  Bright  especially  I  am  under  great  obli- 
gations for  superintending  the  press,  when,  from 
circumstances  beyond  my  control,  I  was  unable 
to  perform  this  labor  myself 

To  the  E-ev.  Hufus  Anderson,  D.  D.,  the  senior 
secretary  of  the  American  Board  of  Commission- 
ers for  Foreign  Missions,  I  am  greatly  indebted. 
Not  only  has  he  caused  to  be  copied  for  my  use 
every  paper  in  his  possession  relating  to  the  con- 
nection of  Dr.  Judson  with  that  society,  but  he 
has  at  all  times  granted  me  the  aid  of  his  em- 
inent abilities  and  profound  acquaintance  with 
every  department  of  missionary  service. 

Whatever  value  this  Memoir  may  possess 
must  be  ascribed,  in  no  small  degree,  to  the 
assistance  w^hich  I  have  received  from  Mrs. 
Judson.  She  arranged  for  me  all  the  letters 
and  papers,  furnished  me  with  information  which 
no  other  person  could  possess,  and  has  com- 
municated notes  and  reminiscences  which  will 
be  found  to  be  among  the  most  interesting  por- 
tions of  the  work. 
1* 


PREFACE. 


I  should  do  injustice  to  my  own  feelings 
were  I  to  close  this  preface  without  recording 
my  obligations  to  the  publishers,  Messrs.  Phil- 
lips, Sampson,  &  Co.  Their  arrangements  have 
been  characterized  by  great  liberality ;  their 
promptness  and  punctuality  have  left  nothing 
to  be  desired ;  and  the  interest  which  they 
have  taken  in  the  publication  can  only  be  ap- 
preciated by  those  whose  duty  it  is  to  labor 
in  this  sometimes  harassing  vocation.  An  ac- 
knowledgment of  my  obligations  is  also  due  to 
the  gentlemen  of  the  Boston  Stereotype  Foundry, 
for  the  fidelity  and  taste  with  which  they  have 
carried  forward  their  part  of  the  work. 

In  the  humble  hope  that  these  volumes  will 
throw  some  valuable  light  upon  the  subject  of 
Christian  missions,  and  thus  serve  the  cause  to 
which  the  life  of  Dr.  Judson  was  devoted,  they 
are  submitted  to  the  candid  consideration  of  the 
Christian  public. 

Brown  University,  August  5,  1853. 


CONTENTS 


OF    THE    FIRST    VOLUME 


CHAPTER   I. 

TARENTAGE.  —  CHILDHOOD  AND  YOUTH.  —  LIFE  IN  COLLEGE. 
ENTERS  THE  THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY  AT  ANDOVER,   . 


CHAPTER   II. 

RESIDENCE  AT  ANDOVER.  —  CONVERSION.  —  FIRST  IMPULSES 
TOWARDS  MISSIONARY  LABOR.  —  MISSIONARY  ASSOCIA- 
TIONS. —  ORIGIN  OF  THE  AMERICAN  BOARD  OF  COMMISSION- 
ERS  27 

CHAPTER  III. 

MISSION  TO  ENGLAND.  —  CAFIURE,  AND  DETENTION  IN 
FRANCE.  —  INTERVIEWS  WITH  THE  DIRECTORS  OF  THE 
LONDON  MISSIONARY  SOCIETY.  —  RETURNS    TO  THE  UNITED 

7 


.  CONTENTS. 

STATES. —  ArrOINTED  A  MISSIONARY  OF  THE  AMEIUCAN 
BOARD  OF  COiOnSSIONERS  FOR  FOREIGN  MISSIONS.— 
MARRIAGE  AND  ORDINATION.  —  RELATIONS  WITH  THE 
BOARD, G3 


CHAPTER  IV. 

EMBARKATION.  —  ARRIVAL  IN  INDIA  — CUANGE  OF  VIEWS 
ON  BAPTISM.  —  COURSE  OF  THE  EAST  INDIA  COMPANY.— 
ESCAPE  TO  THE  ISLE  OF  FRANCE.  —  PASSAGES  TO  MADRAS 
AND  RANGOON.  —  FORMATION  OF  THE  BAFTIST  GENERAL 
CONVENTION  FOR  FOREIGN  MISSIONS, 93 


CHAPTEH   y. 

THE    BURMAN    EMPIRE.  —  i:XTENT.  —  RIVERS.  —  POPULATION. 
—  RESOURCES.  —  GOVERNMENT.  —  RELIGION 128 


CHAPTER   VI. 

ENTRANCE  UPON  MISSIONARY  WORK.  -  HIS  VIEWS  OF  THAT 
WORK.  -  ACQUISITION  OF  THE  LANGUAGE.  -  PROGRESS  OF 
THE  MISSION.  —  VOYAGE  TO  MADRAS, J51 


CHAPTER   VII. 

CONFIDENCE  IN  GOD.  -  VIEWS  OF  THE  IMPORTANCE  OF 
PREACHING  THE  GOSPEL.  —  THAT  WORK  COMMENCED. - 
OPENING  OF  THE  ZAYAT.  -  FIRST  CONVERTS  TO  THE  CHRIS- 
TIAN RELIGION.- PREPARATIONS  FOR  VISITING   AVA,  .  201 


CONTENTS.  y 

CHAPTER   VIII. 

FIRST  VISIT  TO  AVA.  —  RETURN  TO  RANGOON.  —  PROGRESS 
OF  THE  GOSPEL.  — NEW  STATfON  AT  CHmAGONG. —  FAIL- 
URE OF  MRS.  JUDSON'S  HEALTH.  — VOYAGE  TO  BENGAL,    .  246 


CHAPTER   IX. 

RETURN  TO  RANGOON.  —  GROWTH  OF  THE  CHURCH.  —  IN- 
CREASED ILLNESS  OF  MRS.  JUDSON.  —  SAILS  FOR  THE 
UNITED  STATES. —  THE  MISSION  RE-ENFORCED.  —  SECOND 
VISIT    TO   AVA.  —  TRANSLATION  OF  NEW  TESTAMENT    COM- 


PLETED,          .288 


CHAPTER    X. 

HOPEFUL  PROSPECTS  OF  THE  MISSION  —PASSAGE  UP  THE 
IRRAWADL  — WAR  BETWEEN  THE  ENGLISH  AND  BURMESE. 
—  IMPRISONMENT  OF  DR.  JUDSON  AT  AVA  AND  OUNG-PEN- 
LA.— HIS  RELEASE. -PERSONAL  REMINISCENCES,  .        .        .    326 


CHAPTER   XI. 

MISSION  TRANSFERRED  TO  THE  TENASSERIM  PROVINCES.  — 
REMOVES  TO  AMHERST.  -  EMBASSY  TO  AVA. —SYSTEM  OF 
MISSIONARY    REGULATIONS.  —    DEATH     OF    MRS.     JUDSON. 

—  DEATH  OF   HIS   ONLY   CHILD.  —  REMOVES   TO   MAULMAIN. 

—  DEATH  OF  HIS   FATHER, 40] 


10  CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER   XII. 

LABORS  AT  MAULMAIN.  —  ORDINATION  OF  BURMESE  PAS- 
TORS. —  MUNIFICENT  GIFT.  -  LEriER  TO  SIR  ARCHIBALD 
CAMPBELL.  —  VIEWS  OF  HIGHER  ATTAINMENTS  IN  RELI- 
GION. —  PREPARATION  OF  WORKS  FOR  THE  PRESS.  — SE- 
CLUSION,   445 


CHAPTER   XIII. 

REVISITS  RANGOON.  -  PASSAGE    TO    PROME.  -  SOJOURN    AT 
PROME.  -  RESIDENCE  AT  RANGOON.  —  PROGRESS  IN  TRANS-  " 
LATING    THE  SCRIPTURES.  —  RETURN  TO   MAULMAIN.  —  RE- 
VIEW OF  HIS  AUSTERITIES.  —  THE  KARENS 485 


MEMOIR  OF   DE.  JUDSON 


CHAPTER    I. 

rAKENTAGE.  — CHILDliOOD  AND    YOUTH.  — LIFE  IN    COLLEGE.— 
ENTERS  THE  THEOLOGICAL  SEMINARY  AT  ANDOVER. 

1788-1808. 

Adoniram  Judson,  the  senior  Baptist  missionary  to 
Burrnah,  was  born  in  Maiden,  Massachusetts,  on  the 
9th  of  August,  1788.  He  was  the  eldest  son  of 
Adoniram  and  Abigail  Judson. 

Rev.    Adoniram  Judson,*  the   father,  was  born  in 

*  I  am  indebted  to  the  Rev.  S.  Hopkins  Emen',  of  Taunton,  Mas- 
sachusetts, for  the  following  memoranda  of  the  Judson  family.  In 
some  cases  both  the  names  and  dates  differ  from  those  which  I 
have  received  from  the  family.  I  am  unable  to  explain  the  discie^ 
pancy  between  the  two  accounts.  "  Adoniram  Judson,  father  of  the 
missionary  to  Burmah,  was  the  son  of  Elnathan  and  Rebecca  [not 
MarA-]  Judson." 

Elnathan,  the  father  of  Adoniram  senior,  married  Rebecca  Minor, 
June  30,  1736.  This  Rebecca  was  daughter  of  Ephraim  and  Rebecca 
Minor,  and  granddaughter  of  Captain  John  Minor,  the  first  settler 
of  Woodbury,  and  Indian  interpreter.  She  was  born  January  30, 
1712.  Captain  Ehiathan  Judson  died  December  14,  1796,  aged 
eighty-fouj  years. 

They  had  cliildren  as  follows  :  — 

1.  Epliraim,  (a  clergjTiian,  some  time  settled  in  Taunton,  Massa- 

(H; 


12  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

Woodbury,  Connecticut,  in  June,  1752,  and  was  the 
youngest  son  of  Elnathan  and  Mary  Judson.  He 
was  married  November  23,  1786,  to  Abigail  Brown, 
a  native  of  Tiverton,  Rhode  Island,  born  December  15, 
1759,  eldest  daughter  of  Abraham  and  Abigail  Brown. 
The  children  of  Adoniram  and  Abigail  Judson  were, 

1.  Adoniram,  born  in  Maiden,  Massachusetts,  Au- 
gust 9,  1788. 

2.  Abigail  Brown  Judson,  born  in  Maiden,  Massa- 
chusetts, March  21,  1791,  now  residing  in  Plymouth. 

chuBetts,  and  afterwards  in  Sheffield,  Connecticut,)  born  December  5, 
1737,  baptized  December  11,  1737. 

2.  Thaddeiis,  baptized  October  14,  1739. 

3.  Mary,  baptized  October  18,  1741. 

Married  to  Edward  Pond,  November  7,  1765. 

4.  Noah,  baptized  July  15,  1744. 

5.  Elisha,      "  «     20,  1746. 

And  died  in  infancy. 

6.  Elisha  2d,  baptized  November  8,  1747. 

7.  Adoniram,       '<         July  15,  1750. 

Elnathan,  the  grandfather  of  the  missionary,  was  born  May  8, 
1712.  He  had  brothers,  Ehsha,  who  died  young,  Elisha  2d,  and 
Peter ;  also,  sisters  Abigail,  Martha,  and  Jerusha.  They  were  the 
children  of  Jonathan  Jiidson,  who  married  Mary  Mitchell,  daughter 
of  Deacon  Matthew  Mitchell,  August  22,  1711. 

Jonathan,  the  great-grandfather  of  the  missionary,  Avas  bona  De- 
cember, 1684.  He  was  the  son  of  John  Judson,  who  married,  1673, 
EHzabeth  ChajDman,  of  Stamford ;  and  was  again  married  in  1699, 
to  Mrs.  Mary  Orton,  of  Farmington.  Jonathan  had  two  brothers 
and  two  sisters. 

Their  father,  John,  was  the  son  of  Joseph,  who  came  to  this  coTin- 
try  at  the  age  of  fifteen,  lived  first  at  Concord,  then  at  Stratford,  and 
married  Sarah  Porter,  of  Windsor.     Joseph  had  eleven  cliildren. 

His  father  was  named  WUliam,  the  progenitor  of  the  Judsons  in 
this  country.  He  came  from  Yorkshii-e,  England,  in  1634,  bringing 
three  sons,   Joseph,  Jeremiah,   and  Joshua. 

The  above  facts  were  collected  from  the  Stratford  and  Wood- 
bury records,  by  William  Cothen,  Esq.,  of  Woodbury,  Connecticut, 
who  is  making  out  a  genealogical  account  of  the  family. 


PARENTAGE.  18 

3.  Elnathan  Judson,  born  in  Wenham,  Massachu- 
setts, May  28,  1794.  He  was  a  surgeon  in  U.  S.  N., 
and  died  in  Washington,  District  of  Columbia,  1829; 

4.  Mary  Ellice  Judson,  born  in  Wenham,  February 
18,  1796,  and  died  September  12  of  the  same  year. 

Rev.  Adoniram  Judson,  the  father,  was  first  settled 
in  the  ministry,  if  I  mistake  not,  at  Maiden,  Massa- 
chusetts. This  must  have  been  prior  to  the  year  1788. 
He  was  invited  to  become  the  pastor  of  the  church 
in  Wenham  in  November,  1792,  and  was  installed 
there  in  the  following  December.  He  continued  the 
pastor  of  this  church  until  the  close  of  the  year  1799, 
when,  at  his  own  solicitation,  he  was  dismissed.  In 
1802,  he  was  installed  as  pastor  of  one  of  the  churches 
in  Plymouth.  Here  he  remained  about  fifteen  years. 
Having  changed  his  sentiments  on  the  subject  of 
baptism,  he  was  dismissed  in  1817.  He  died  at 
Scituate,  Massachusetts,  November  25,  1826,  aged 
seventy-six. 

Mr.  Judson  was  a  man  of  vigorous  mind,  resolute 
will,  and  strong  common  sense.  His  judgments  were 
generally  accurate,  and  his  reliance  upon  them  im- 
plicit. He  was  rather  fitted  to  command  than  to 
obey,  and  his  system  of  domestic  government,  prob- 
ably, belonged  more  to  the  patriarchal  than  to  the 
present  dispensation.  Though  not,  so  far  as  I  dis- 
cover, ambitious  of  personal  distinction,  he  appears 
to  have  coveted  eminence  for  his  children  with  more 
than  a  wise  eagerness ;  and  to  have  been  in  the  habit 
of  stimulating  his  son  to  exertion  by  the  assurance 
that  he  would  certainly  become  a  great  man.  The 
propriety  of  creating  these  anticipations  in  the  minds 
of  the  young  is  at  best  doubtful.  Talent  generally 
reveals   itself,   at   a   sufficiently  early  period,  to   the 

VOL.   I.  2 


14  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

consciousness  of  its  possessor.  To  have  done  a  thing 
is  the  proper  proof  to  a  young  man  that  he  can  do  it. 
It  is,  besides,  the  only  reliable  evidence  of  his  actual 
ability.  To  encourage  extravagant  anticipations  of 
success  in  the  mind  of  a  child  is  commonly  to  sow 
the  seeds  of  oddity  and  arrogance,  and  render  ulti- 
mate failure  almost  inevitable. 

I  had  once  or  twice  the  pleasure  of  spending  a  few 
hours  with  Mr.  Judson,  after  he  had  passed  the  sev- 
entieth year  of  his  age.  His  appearance  has  left  a 
deep  impression  on  my  recollection,  now  that  nearly 
thirty  years  have  glided  away.  He  was,  as  I  remem- 
ber him,  a  man  of  decidedly  imposing  appearance. 
His  stature  was  rather  above  the  average  height.  His 
white  hair,  erect  position,  grave  utterance,  and  some- 
what taciturn  manner,  together  with  the  position 
which  he  naturally  took  in  society,  left  you  somewhat 
at  a  loss  whether  to  class  him  with  a  patriarch  of  the 
Hebrews,  or  a  censor  of  the  Romans.  He  was, 
through  life,  esteemed  a  man  of  inflexible  integrity, 
and  uniform  consistency  of  Christian  character. 

The  son,  at  an  early  age,  gave  promise  of  unusual 
ability.  His  intellect  was  acute,  his  power  of  acqui- 
sition great,  and  his  perseverance  unflagging.  To 
these  elements  of  character  he  added  a  love  of  preem- 
inence which  seems  to  have  been  carried  somewhat 
to  excess.  His  temper  was  amiable ;  specially  so  in 
his  own  family.  From  early  years  he  seems  to  have 
been  remarked  for  uncommon  self-reliance.  Thus 
endowed,  it  may  readily  be  believed  that  he  was  gen- 
erally the  acknowledged  leader  in  the  little  circles  to 
which  he  became  attached. 

Young  Judson  was  taught  to  read  by  his  mother, 
when  only  three  years  old.     His  father  had  gone  from 


INDICATIONS    OF    UNUSUAL    ABILITY.  15 

home  on  a  short  journey,  and  she,  wishing  to  surprise 
her  husband,  took  the  opportunity  to  teach  the  child  to 
read  during  his  absence.  He  learned  so  rapidly  that  he 
was  able  to  give  his  father  a  chapter  of  the  Bible  on 
his  return.  In  speaking  of  this  and  other  similar 
things,  he  said  that  he  was  not  aware  of  being  injured 
by  the  forcing  system,  but  he  should  certainly  not  pre- 
scribe it  for  his  children. 

On  the  17th  of  August,  1804,  Mr.  Judson  entered 
Providence  College,  now  Brown  University,  one 
year  in  advance.  He  was  then  in  his  sixteenth  year. 
His  contemporaries  all  unite  in  representing  him  to 
have  been  a  young  man  of  studious  and  secluded  hab- 
its, attaining  to  perfection  in  every  exercise,  and  scru- 
pulously careful  to  devote  every  moment  of  his  time 
to  intellectual  improvement.  During  a  part  of  his 
collegiate  course,  he  was  engaged  in  the  instruction 
of  a  school  in  Plymouth.  At  the  close  of  his  senior 
year,  he  received  the  highest  appointment  for  com- 
mencement, an  English  oration,  with  the  valedictory 
addresses. 

This  appointment  was  sufficient  to  prove  that  Mr. 
Judson  was,  in  the  opinion  of  his  instructors,  the  first 
scholar  in  his  class.  But  it  is  evident  that,  beyond 
this,  they  considered  him  a  young  man  of  rare  attain- 
ments and  extraordinary  promise.  The  late  Rev.  Dr. 
Messer,  then  president  of  the  university,  a  man  chary 
of  praise,  and  eminently  cautious  in  his  judgments, 
wrote  the  following  letter  to  the  father  of  the  future 
missionary  during  the  first  year  of  his  collegiate  resi- 
dence :  — 

Browx  University,  April  30,  1805. 
Rev.  Sir  :     Notwithstanding  the  greatness  of  my  present 
hurry,  I  must  drop  you  a  word  respecting  your  son  ;  and  this, 


16  MEMOIR    OP   DR.   JUDSON. 

I  can  assure  you,  is  not  by  way  of  complaint.  A  uniform 
propriety  of  conduct,  as  well  as  an  intense  application  to 
study,  distinguishes  his  character.  Your  expectations  of  him, 
however  sanguine,  must  certainly  be  gratified.  I  most  heart- 
ily congratulate  you,  my  dear  sir,  on  that  charming  prospect 
which  you  have  exhibited  in  this  very  amiable  and  promising 
son  ;  and  I  most  heartily  pray  that  the  Father  of  mercies 
may  make  him  now,  while  a  youth,  a  son  in  his  spiritual  fam- 
ily, and  give  him  an  earnest  of  the  inheritance  of  the  saints 
in  light. 

I  am,  very  respectfully, 

Your  friend  and  servant, 

Asa  Messer. 

Shortly  after  leaving  college,  Mr.  Judson  published 
a  work  on  English  Grammar.  A  recommendation  of 
the  book  by  his  former  insti'uctors,  Rev.  Drs.  Messer 
and  Park,  holds  the  following  language  :  — 

Providence,  February  15,  1808. 
Sir  :  In  expressing  our  opinion  of  your  "  Elements  of 
English  Grammar,"  we  ought,  perhaps,  to  remind  you,  that 
that  opinion  may  possibly  be  affected  by  a  recollection  of  the 
very  worthy  and  honorable  manner  in  which  you  pursued  the 
whole  of  your  collegiate  course,  and  in  which,  when  less  than 
twenty  years  old,  you  finished  it  at  the  last  commencement. 
Be  this  as  it  may,  you  may  be  certain  that  the  work  has 
given  us  much  gratification.  It  exhibits  a  fresh  instance  of 
the  ingenious  literary  enterprise  and  perseverance  of  its 
author ;  and  should  you  conclude  to  give  it  to  the  public,  it 
will,  we  hope,  meet,  as  it  merits,  a  generous  patronage. 
We  remain,  with  respect. 

Your  affectionate  friends, 

Asa  Messer. 
Calvin  Park. 


CniLDIIOOD.  17 

The  following  reminiscences  of  young  Judson  ex- 
tend from  his  early  boyhood  until  a  short  time  after 
his  graduation.  They  contain  all  that  can  be  elicited 
from  the  recollections  of  his  surviving  relatives  re- 
specting this  period  of  his  history. 

Dr.  Judson's  sister  remembers,  with  an  interest  which,  no 
doubt,  obtained  a  very  important  accession  from  the  events  of 
after  life,  that,  at  the  age  of  four  years,  little  Adoniram  used 
to  collect  the  children  of  the  neighborhood  about  him,  and 
mounting  a  chair,  go  through  with  the  exercises  of  the  pulpit 
with  singular  earnestness,  and  greatly  to  the  admiration  of  his 
auditors.  This  was  a  favorite  reminiscence  of  his  parents  ; 
and  they  never  forgot  that  the  hymn  usually  put  forth  on  these 
occasions  was  the  one  commencing,  "  Go  preach  my  gospel, 
saith  the  Lord." 

Adoniram  was  about  seven  years  old,  when,  having  been 
duly  instructed  that  the  earth  is  a  spherical  body,  and  that  it 
revolves  around  the  sun,  it  became  a  serious  question,  in  his 
mind,  whether  or  not  the  sun  moved  at  all.  He  might  have 
settled  the  point  by  asking  his  father  or  mother ;  but  that  would 
have  spoiled  all  his  pleasant  speculations,  and  probably  would 
have  been  the  very  last  thing  to  occur  to  him.  His  little  sis- 
ter, whom  alone  he  consulted,  said  the  sun  did  move,  for  she 
coufe  see  it ;  but  he  had  learned  already,  in  this  matter,  to 
distrust  the  evidence  of  his  senses,  and  he  talked  so  wisely 
about  positive  proof,  that  she  was  astonished  and  silenced. 
Soon  after  this,  he  was  one  day  missed  about  midday;  and  as 
he  had  not  been  seen  for  several  hours,  his  father  became  un- 
easy, and  went  in  search  of  him.  He  was  found  in  a  field,  at 
some  distance  from  the  house,  stretched  on  his  back,  his  hat 
with  a  circular  hole  cut  in  the  crown,  laid  over  his  face,  and 
his  swollen  eyes  almost  blinded  with  the  intense  light  and  heat. 
He  only  told  his  father  that  he  was  looking  at  the  sun ;  but 
he  assured  his  sister  that  he  had  solved  the  problem  with  re- 
gard to  the  sun's  moving,  though  she  never  could  comprehend 
the  process  by  which  he  arrived  at  the  result. 
2* 


18  MEMOIR    OF    DR.   JUDSON. 

He  was  noted  among  his  companions  for  uncommon  acute- 
ness  in  the  sokition  of  charades  and  enigmas,  and  retained  a 
great  store  of  them  in  his  memory,  for  the  purpose  of  puzzling 
his  schoolfellows.  On  one  occasion,  he  found,  in  a  newspaper, 
an  enigma  rather  boastfully  set  forth,  and  accompanied  by  a 
challenge  for  a  solution.  He  felt  very  sure  that  he  had 
"  guessed  riddles  as  hard  as  that,"  and  gave  himself  no  rest 
until  he  had  discovered  a  satisfactory  answer.  This  he  copied 
out  in  as  fair  a  hand  as  possible,  addressed  it  to  the  editor,  and 
with  no  confidant  but  his  sister,  conveyed  it  to  the  post  office. 
But  the  postmaster  supposed  it  to  be  some  mischievous  prank 
of  the  minister's  son,  and  he  accordingly  placed  the  letter  in 
the  hands  of  the  father.  The  poor  boy's  surprise  and  discom- 
fiture may  be  imagined,  when  he  saw  it  paraded  on  the  table 
after  tea.  "  Is  that  yours,  Adoniram  ?  "  "  Yes,  sir."  "  How 
came  you  to  write  it  ?  "  Silence.  "  What  is  it  about  ?  " 
Falteringly,  "  Please  read  it,  father."  "  I  do  not  read  other 
people's  letters.  Break  the  seal,  and  read  it  yourself."  Adoni- 
ram broke  the  seal,  and  mumbled  over  the  contents,  then 
placed  the  letter  in  his  father's  hands.  He  read  it,  called  for 
the  newspaper  which  had  suggested  it,  and  after  reading  and 
re-reading  both,  laid  them  on  the  table,  crossed  his  hands  on 
his  knees,  and  looked  intently  into  the  fire.  Meantime  Adoni- 
ram stood  silently  watching  his  countenance,  speculating  on 
the  chances  of  his  being  treated  as  a  culprit,  or  praised  for  his 
acuteness.  But  the  father  woke  from  his  revery,  the  subject 
of  conversation  was  changed,  and  the  letter  never  heard  of 
afterwards.  The  next  morning,  Adoniram's  father  gravely  in- 
formed him  that  he  had  purchased  for  his  use  a  book  of  riddles, 
a  very  common  one,  but  as  soon  as  he  had  solved  all  that  it  con- 
tained, he  should  have  more  difficult  books.  "  You  are  a  very 
acute  boy,  Adoniram,"  he  added,  patting  him  on  the  head  with 
unusual  affection,  "  and  I  expect  you  to  become  a  great  man." 
Adoniram  seized  upon  the  book  of  riddles  joyfully,  and  was  a 
good  deal  surprised  and  disappointed  to  find  it  the  veritable 
arithmetic  which  the  larger  boys  in  Master  Dodge's  school 
were  studying.     But  then  his  father  had  praised  him,  and  if 


CHILDHOOD.  19 

there  was  any  thing  puzzling  in  the  arithmetic,  he  was  sure 
he  should  like  it ;  and  so  he  prepared  to  enter  upon  the  study 
with  alacrity. 

Before  reaching  his  tenth  year,  he  had  gained  quite  a  repu- 
tation for  good  scholarship,  especially  in  arithmetic.  A  gen- 
tleman residing  in  the  neighboring  town  of  Beverly  sent  him 
a  problem,  with  the  offer  of  a  dollar  for  the  solution.  Adoni- 
ram  immediately  shut  himself  in  his  chamber.  The  reward 
was  tempting ;  but,  more  important  still,  his  reputation  was  at 
stake.  On  the  morning  of  the  second  day,  he  was  called  from 
his  seclusion  to  amuse  his  little  brother,  who  was  ill.  He  went 
reluctantly,  but  without  murmuring,  for  the  government  of  his 
parents  was  of  a  nature  that  no  child  would  think  of  resisting. 
His  task  was  to  build  a  cob  house.  He  laid  an  unusually 
strong  foundation,  with  unaccountable  slowness  and  hesitation, 
and  was  very  deliberately  proceeding  with  the  superstructure, 
when  suddenly  he  exclaimed,  "  That's  it !  I've  got  it ! "  and 
sending  the  materials  for  the  half-built  house  rolling  about  the 
room,  he  hurried  off  to  his  chamber  to  record  the  result.  The 
problem  was  solved,  the  dollar  was  won,  and  the  boy's  reputa- 
tion established. 

At  the  age  of  ten  he  was  sent  to  one  Captain  Morton,  of 
whom  he  took  lessons  in  navigation,  in  which  he  is  said  to  have 
made  decided  progress.  Li  the  grammar  school  he  was  noted 
for  his  proficiency  in  the  Greek  language.  His  schoolmates 
nicknamed  him  Virgil,  or  (in  allusion  to  the  peculiar  style  of 
the  hat  which  he  wore,  as  well  as  to  his  studious  habits)  "  old 
Virgil  dug  up."  As  a  boy,  he  was  spirited,  self-confident,  and 
exceedingly  enthusiastic,  very  active  and  energetic,  but  fonder 
of  his  books  than  of  play.  His  sister  has  a  vivid  recollection 
of  his  affectionate  tenderness  towards  her,  and  of  his  great 
kindness  to  inferior  animals.  He  was  very  fond  of  desultory 
reading ;  and  as  there  were  no  books  for  children  at  that  period, 
he  alternated  between  the  books  of  theology,  found  in  his 
father's  library,  and  the  novels  of  Richardson  and  Fielding, 
or  the  plays  of  Ben  Jonson,  which  he  was  able  to  borrow 
in   the   neighborhood.      It  is  not   probable  that   his   father 


20  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

encouraged  this  latter  class  of  reading ;  but  the  habits  of  self- 
dependence,  which  he  had  tliought  proper  to  cultivate  in  his 
son,  left  his  hours  of  leisure  mostly  untrammelled ;  and  seeing 
the  greediness  with  which  the  boy  occasionally  devoured 
books  of  the  gravest  character,  it  very  likely  had  not  occurred 
to  him  that  he  could  feel  the  least  possible  interest  in  any 
work  of  the  imagination. 

Before  Adoniram  was  twelve  years  of  age,  he  had  heard 
visitors  at  his  father's  talk  a  great  deal  of  a  new  exposition  of 
the  Apocalypse,  which  they  pronounced  a  work  of  rare  inter- 
est. Now,  the  Revelation  was  the  book  that,  of  all  others  in 
the  Bible,  he  delighted  most  to  read ;  and  he  had  searched 
the  few  commentators  his  father  possessed  without  getting 
much  light  upon  its  mysteries.  The  new  exposition  was 
owned  by  a  very  awe-inspiring  gentleman  in  the  neighbor- 
hood ;  but  Adoniram  felt  that  he  must  have  it,  and  after  com- 
bating a  long  time  with  his  bashfulness,  he  at  last  determined 
on  begging  the  loan  of  it.  He  presented  himself  in  the  great 
man's  library,  and  was  coldly  and  sternly  refused.  For  once, 
his  grief  and  mortification  were  so  great  that  he  could  not 
conceal  the  affair  from  his  father.  He  received  more  sympa- 
thy than  he  anticipated.  "  Not  lend  it  to  you  !  "  said  the  good 
man,  indignantly ;  "  I  wish  he  could  understand  it  half  as  well. 
You  shall  have  books,  Adoniram,  just  as  many  as  you  can 
read,  and  I'll  go  to  Boston  myself  for  them."  He  performed 
his  promise,  but  the  desired  work  on  the  Apocalypse,  perhaps 
for  judicious  reasons,  was  not  obtained. 

When  about  fourteen  years  of  age,  his  studies  were  inter- 
rupted by  a  serious  attack  of  illness,  by  which  he  was  reduced 
to  a  state  of  extreme  weakness,  and  for  a  long  time  his  re- 
covery was  doubtful.  It  was  more  than  a  year  before  he  was 
able  to  resume  his  customary  occupations.  Previous  to  this, 
he  had  been  too  actively  engaged  to  devote  much  time  to 
thought ;  but  as  soon  as  the  violence  of  the  disease  subsided, 
he  spent  many  long  days  and  nights  in  reflecting  on  his  future 
course.  His  plans  were  of  the  most  extravagantly  ambitious 
character.     Now  he  was  an  orator,  now  a  poet,  now  a  states- 


YOUTH.  21 

man  ;  but  whatever  his  character  or  profession*  he  was  sure  in 
his  castle  building  to  attain  to  the  highest  eminence.  After  a 
time,  one  thought  crept  into  his  mind,  and  imbittered  all  his 
musings.  Suppose  he  should  attain  to  the  very  highest  pinna- 
cle of  which  human  nature  is  capable ;  what  then  ?  Could  he 
hold  his  honors  forever  ?  His  favorites  of  other  ages  had 
long  since  been  turned  to  dust,  and  what  was  it  to  them  that 
the  world  still  praised  them  ?  What  would  it  be  to  him, 
when  a  hundred  years  had  gone  by,  that  America  had  never 
known  his  equal  ?  He  did  not  wonder  that  Alexander  wept 
when  at  the  summit  of  his  ambition ;  he  felt  very  sure  that  he 
should  have  wept  too.  Then  he  would  become  alarmed  at  the 
extent  of  his  own  wicked  soarings,  and  try  to  comfort  him- 
self with  the  idea  that  it  was  all  the  result  of  the  fever  in  his 
brain. 

One  day  his  mind  reverted  to  religious  pursuits.  Yes,  an 
eminent  divine  was  very  well,  though  he  should  of  course  pre- 
fer something  more  brilliant.  Gradually,  and  without  his  be- 
ing aware  of  his  own  train  of  thought,  his  mind  instituted  a 
comparison  between  the  great  worldly  divine,  toiling  for  the 
same  perishable  objects  as  his  other  favorites,  and  the  humble 
minister  of  the  gospel,  laboring  only  to  please  God  and  bene- 
fit his  fellow-men.  There  was  (so  he  thought)  a  sort  of  sub- 
limity about  that,  after  all.  Surely  the  world  was  all  wrong, 
or  such  a  self-abjuring  man  would  be  its  hero.  Ah,  but  the 
good  man  had  a  reputation  more  enduring.  Yes,  yes,  his 
fame  was  sounded  before  him  as  he  entered  the  other  world ; 
and  that  was  the  only  fame  worthy  of  the  possession,  because 
the  only  one  that  triumphed  over  the  grave.  Suddenly,  in  the 
midst  of  his  self-gratulation,  the  words  flashed  across  his  mind, 
"  Not  unto  us,  not  unto  us,  but  to  Thy  name  be  the  glory." 
He  was  confounded.  Not  that  he  had  actually  made  himself 
the  representative  of  this  last  kind  of  greatness  ;  it  was  not 
sulficiently  to  his  taste  for  that ;  but  he  had  ventured  on  dan- 
gerous ground,  and  he  was  startled  by  a  flood  of  feelings  that 
had  till  now  remained  dormant.  He  had  always  said  and 
thought,  so  far  as  he  had  thought  any  thing  about  it,  that  he 


ZZ  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    .TUDSON. 

wished  to  become  truly  religious  ;  but  now  religion  seemed  so 
entirely  opposed  to  all  his  ambitious  plans,  that  he  was  afraid 
to  look  into  his  heart,  lest  he  should  discover  what  he  did  not 
like  to  confess,  even  to  himself —  that  he  did  not  want  to  become 
a  Christian.  He  was  fully  awake  to  the  vanity  of  worldly 
pursuits,  and  was,  on  the  whole,  prepared  to  yield  the  palm  of 
excellence  to  religious  ones  ;  but  his  father  had  often  said  he 
would  one  day  be  a  great  man,  and  a  great  man  he  had  re- 
solved to  be. 

He  entered  college  at  sixteen,  a  year  in  advance ;  and  having 
lost  his  fifteenth  year  by  illness,  he  was  obliged  to  devote  him- 
self very  closely  to  his  studies,  and  seldom  gave  himself  any 
respite,  even  during  the  vacations.  He  was  ambitious  to  ex- 
cel ;  and  a  classmate  says  of  him,  he  has  "  no  recollection  of 
his  ever  failing,  or  even  hesitating,  in  recitation."  He  had 
a  powerful  rival  in  his  friend  Bailey,*  and  this  probably 
added  zest  to  his  ambition.  "When  he  received  the  highest 
appointment  in  the  commencement  exercises,  his  delight  knew 
no  bounds.  He  hurried  to  his  room,  and  wrote,  "  Dear  father, 
I  have  got  it.  Your  affectionate  son,  A.  J."  He  then  took  a 
circuitous  route  to  the  post  office,  that  he  might  quiet  the  beat- 
ings of  his  heart,  and  appear  with  propriety  before  his  class- 
mates, and  especially  before  his  rival  friend. 

It  was  at  this  period  that  French  infidelity  was  sweeping 
over  the  land  like  a  flood ;  and  free  inquiry  in  matters  of  reli- 
gion was  supposed  to  constitute  part  of  the  education  of  every 
man  of  spirit.  Young  Judson  did  not  escape  the  contamina- 
tion.    In  the  class  above  him  was  a  young  man  by  the  name 

of   E ,  who    was    amiable,    talented,  witty,    exceedingly 

agreeable  in  person  and  manners,  but  a  confirmed  Deist.  A 
very  strong  friendship  sprang  up  between  the  two  young 
men,  founded  on  similar  tastes  and  sympathies ;  and  Judson 
soon  became,  at  least  professedly,  as  great  an  unbeliever  as  his 
friend.      The   subject   of   a  profession   was   often    discussed 


*  The  late  Hon.  John  Bailey,  member  of  Congress  from  Massa- 
chusetts. 


HIS    FIRST   TOUR.  23 

between  them.  At  one  time,  they  proposed  entering  the  law, 
because  it  afforded  so  wide  a  scope  for  political  ambition ;  and 
at  another,  they  discussed  their  own  dramatic  powers,  with  a 
view  to  writing  plays. 

Immediately  on  closing  the  school  at  Plymouth,  Judson  set 
out  on  a  tour  through  the  Northern  States.  After  visiting 
some  of  the  New  England  States,  he  left  the  horse  with 
which  his  father  had  furnished  him  with  an  uncle  in  Shef- 
field, Connecticut,  and  proceeded  to  Albany  to  see  the  won- 
der of  the  world,  the  newly-invented  Robert  Fulton  steam- 
er. She  was  about  proceeding  on  her  second  trip  to  New 
York,  and  he  gladly  took  passage  in  her.  The  magnificent 
scenery  of  the  Hudson  had  then  excited  comparatively  little 
attention,  and  its  novelty  and  sublimity  could  not  fail  to  make 
a  deep  and  lasting  impression  on  one  of  Judson's  ardejit  and 
adventurous  spirit.  Indeed,  during  his  last  illness,  he  de- 
scribed it  with  all  the  enthusiasm  that  he  might  have  done  in 
his  youth.  His  name  was  frequently  mistaken  for  that  of 
Johnson  ;  and  it  occurred  to  him  that,  in  the  novel  scenes  be- 
fore him,  he  might  as  well  use  this  convenient  disguise,  in 
order  to  see  as  deeply  into  the  world  as  possible.  He  there- 
fore, without  actually  giving  out  the  name  with  distinctness,  or 
ever  writing  it  down,  became  Mr.  Johnson.  He  had  not  been 
long  in  New  York  before  he  contrived  to  attach  himself  to  a 
theatrical  company,  not  with  the  design  of  entering  upon  the 
stage,  but  partly  for  the  purpose  of  familiarizing  himself  with 
its  regulations,  in  case  he  should  enter  upon  his  literary  pro- 
jects, and  partly  from  curiosity  and  love  of  adventure. 

Before  setting  out  upon  his  tour  he  had  unfolded  his  infidel 
sentiments  to  his  father,  and  had  been  treated  with  the  severi- 
ty natural  to  a  masculine  mind  that  has  never  doubted,  and  to 
a  parent  who,  after  having  made  innumerable  sacrifices  for 
the  son  of  his  pride  and  his  love,  sees  him  rush  recklessly  on 
his  own  destruction.  His  mother  was  none  the  less  distressed, 
and  she  wept,  and  prayed,  and  expostulated.  He  knew  his 
superiority  to  his  father  in  argument ;  but  he  had  nothing  to 
oppose  to  his  mother's  tears  and  warnings,  and  they  followed 


24  MEMOIR    OF   DR.    JUDSON. 

him  now  wherever  he  went.  He  knew  that  he  was  on  the 
verge  of  such  a  Hfe  as  he  despised.  For  the  world  he  would 
not  see  a  young  brother  in  his  perilous  position  ;  but  "  I,"  he 
thought,  "  am  in  no  danger.  I  am  only  seeing  the  world  —  the 
dark  side  of  it,  as  well  as  the  bright ;  and  I  have  too  much 
self-respect  to  do  any  thing  mean  or  vicious."  After  seeing 
what  he  wished  of  New  York,  he  returned  to  Sheffield  for  his 
horse,  intending  to  pursue  his  journey  westward.  His  uncle, 
Rev.  Ephraim  Judson,  was  absent,  and  a  very  pious  young 
man  occupied  his  place.  His  conversation  was  characterized 
by  a  godly  sincerity,  a  solemn  but  gentle  earnestness,  which 
addressed  itself  to  the  heart,  and  Judson  went  away  deeply 
impressed. 

The  next  night  he  stopped  at  a  country  inn.  The  landlord 
mentioned,  as  he  lighted  him  to  his  room,  that  he  had  been 
obliged  to  place  him  next  door  to  a  young  man  who  was  ex- 
ceedingly ill,  probably  in  a  dying  state ;  but  he  hoped  that  it 
would  occasion  him  no  uneasiness.  Judson  assured  him 
that,  beyond  pity  for  the  poor  sick  man,  he  should  have  no  feel- 
ing whatever,  and  that  now,  having  heard  of  the  circumstance, 
his  pity  would  not  of  course  be  increased  by  the  nearness  of 
the  object.  But  it  was,  nevertheless,  a  very  restless  night. 
Sounds  came  from  the  sick  chamber  —  sometimes  the  move- 
ments of  the  watchers,  sometimes  the  groans  of  the  sufferer ; 
but  it  was  not  these  which  disturbed  him.  He  thought  of 
what  the  landlord  had  said  —  the  stranger  was  probably  in  a 
dying  state  ;  and  was  he  prepared  ?  Alone,  and  in  the  dead 
of  night,  he  felt  a  blush  of  shame  steal  over  him  at  the  ques- 
tion, for  it  proved  the  shallowness  of  his  philosophy.  What 
would  his  late  companions  say  to  his  weakness  ?  The  clear- 
minded,   intellectual,  witty  E ,  what   would    he    say  to 

such  consummate  boyishness  ?  But  still  his  thoughts  would 
revert  to  the  sick  man.  Was  he  a  Christian,  calm  and  strong 
in  the  hope  of  a  glorious  immortality  ?  or  was  he  shuddering 
upon  the  brink  of  a  dark,  unknown  future  ?  Perhaps  he  was 
a  "  freethinker,"  educated  by  Christian  parents,  and  prayed 
over  by  a  Christian  mother.     The  landlord  had  described  him 


PREPARATION   OF   TEXT    BOOKS.  25 

as  a  young  man  ;  and  in  imagination  he  was  forced  to  place 
himself  upon  the  dying  bed,  though  he  strove  with  all  his 
might  against  it.  At  last  morning  came,  and  the  bright  flood 
of  light  which  it  poured  into  his  chamber  dispelled  all  his 
"  superstitious  illusions."  As  soon  as  he  had  risen,  he  went 
in  search  of  the  landlord,  and  inquired  for  his  fellow-lodger. 
"  He  is  dead,"  was  the  reply.  "  Dead !  "  "  Yes,  he  is  gone, 
poor  fellow  !  The  doctor  said  he  would  probably  not  survive  the 
night."  "  Do  you  know  who  he  was  ?  "  "  0,  yes  ;  it  was  a 
young  man  from  Providence   College  —  a  very  fine  fellow ; 

his    name  was   E ."      Judson   was    completely   stunned. 

After  hours  had  passed,  he  knew  not  how,  he  attempted  to 
pursue  his  journey.  But  one  single  thought  occupied  his 
mind,  and  the  words.  Dead !  lost !  lost !  were  continually  ring- 
ing in  his  ears.  He  knew  the  religion  of  the  Bible  to  be 
true  ;  he  felt  its  truth  ;  and  he  was  in  despair.  In  this  state 
of  mind  he  resolved  to  abandon  his  scheme  of  travelling,  and 
at  once  turned  his  horse's  head  towards  Plymouth. 


Mr.  Judson  graduated  Bachelor  of  Arts  on  Septem- 
ber 2,  1807.  On  the  17th  of  the  same  month,  he 
opened  a  private  school  in  the  town  of  Plymouth, 
where  his  parents  then  resided.  February  25,  1808, 
he  completed  his  "  Elements  of  English  Grammar." 
I  have  before  me  a  copy  of  this  work.  It  was  pub- 
lished in  Boston,  by  Gushing  &  Lincoln,  and  is,  I 
presume,  a  good  epitome  of  the  forms  and  laws  of 
the  language.  In  July  of  the  same  year,  he  com- 
pleted and  published  "  The  Young  Lady's  Arithme- 
tic," which  was,  at  the  time,  a  valuable  text  book  for 
schools.  The  preparation  of  two  works  of  this  kind, 
in  addition  to  the  labors  of  a  school,  indicates  that,  at 
this  early  period,  he  had  inured  himself  to  strenuous 
and  enterprising  labor. 

August  9,  1808,  he  closed  his  school,  and  com- 
menced the  journey  through  the  Northern   States,  of 

VOL.  I.  3 


26  MEMOIR    OF    DK.   JUDSON. 

which  mention  is  made  in  the  preceding  memoranda. 
He  returned  to  Plymouth,  September  22,  with  his 
mind  deeply  impressed  with  the  necessity  of  personal 
religion.  At  this  crisis,  the  Rev.  Dr.  Griffin  and  the 
Rev.  Moses  Stuart,  both  professors  in  the  Theological 
Seminary  at  Andover,  visited  his  father.  They  pro- 
posed that  he  should  enter  that  seminary.  He  seems 
to  have  been  for  some  time  undecided,  and  a  few  days 
afterwards  engaged  himself  as  an  assistant  to  a  teach- 
er in  Boston.  This  situation,  however,  he  soon  relin- 
quished, and  proceeded  to  Andover  to  connect  himself 
with  the  seminary.  He  entered  the  institution  in  Oc- 
tober, not  as  a  professor  of  religion  and  candidate  for 
the  ministry,  but  as  a  person  deeply  in  earnest  on  the 
subject,  and  desirous  of  arriving  at  the  truth. 


CHAPTER   II. 

RESIDENCE  AT  ANDOYER.  —  CONVEKSION.— FIRST  IMPULSES 
TOWARDS  MISSIONARY  LABOR.  — MISSIONARY  ASSOCIATIONS. 
—  ORIGIN  OF  TllE  AMERICAN  BOARD   OF  COMMISSIONERS. 

1808-1810. 

Mr.  Judson  removed  to  Andover  October  12,  1808. 
He  was  at  first  admitted  as  a  special  student ;  that  is, 
he  was  permitted  to  attend  the  various  courses  of  in- 
struction in  the  seminary ;  but,  having  made  no  pro- 
fession of  religion,  he  could  not  be  received  os  a  mem- 
ber in  full  standing.  As  he  entered  at  once  upon  the 
studies  of  the  second  year,  he  must  already  have  made 
considerable  proficiency  in  the  languages  of  the  Old 
and  New  Testaments. 

At  this  period,  he  had  no  hope  of  pardon  through 
Christ.  He  had  become  thoroughly  dissatisfied  with 
the  views  of  life  which  he  had  formerly  cherished. 
Aware  of  his  personal  sinfulness,  and  conscious  that 
he  needed  some  great  moral  transformation,  he  yet 
doubted  the  authenticity  of  revealed  religion,  and 
clung  to  the  deistical  sentiments  which  he  had  lately 
imbibed.  His  mind  did  not  readily  yield  to  the  force 
of  evidence.  This  is  by  no  means  an  uncommon 
case ;  nor  is  it  at  all  difficult  of  explanation.  A 
deeply-seated  dislike  to  the  humbling  doctrines  of 
the  cross  frequently  assumes  the  form  of  inability  to 
apply  the  common  principles  of  evidence  to  the  case 
of  revealed  religion.  Men  of  unusual  strength  of 
will,  and  a  somewhat  too  confident  reliance  on  the 
decisions  of  their  individual  intellect,  are  peculiarly 
liable  to  fal)  into  this  error. 

27 


28  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

Mr.  Judson's  moral  nature  was,  however,  thoroughly 
aroused,  and  he  was  deeply  in  earnest  on  the  subject 
of  religion.  The  professors  of  the  theological  semi- 
nary encouraged  his  residence  at  the  institution,  wisely 
judging  that  so  diligent  an  inquirer  must  soon  arrive 
at  the  truth.  The  result  justified  their  anticipations. 
Ill  the  calm  retirement  of  Andover,  guided  in  his 
studies  by  men  the  praise  of  whose  learning  and  piety 
is  in  all  the  churches,  with  nothing  to  distract  his  at- 
tention from  the  great  concerns  of  eternity,  light  grad- 
ually dawned  upon  his  mind,  and  he  was  enabled  to 
surrender  his  whole  soul  to  Christ  as  his  atoning  Sa- 
vior. This  event  occurred  in  November,  about  six 
weeks  after  his  removal  to  Andover.  On  the  2d  of 
December,  1808,  as  he  has  recorded,  he  made  a  solemn 
dedication  of  himself  to  God.  On  the  28th  of  May, 
1809,  he  made  a  public  profession  of  religion,  and 
joined  the  Third  Congregational  Church  in  Plymouth, 
of  which  his  father  was  then  pastor. 

The  change  in  Mr.  Judson's  religious  character 
was  not  attended  by  those  external  indications  of 
moral  excitement  which  are  frequently  observed.  The 
reformation  wrought  in  him  was,  however,  deep  and 
radical.  With  unusual  simplicity  of  purpose,  he 
yielded  himself  up  once  and  forever  to  the  will  of 
God,  and,  without  a  shadow  of  misgiving,  relied  upon 
Christ  as  his  all-sufficient  Savior.  From  the  moment 
of  his  conversion,  he  seems  never,  through  life,  to 
have  been  harassed  by  a  doubt  of  his  acceptance  with 
God.  The  new  creation  was  so  manifest  to  his  con- 
sciousness, that,  in  the  most  decided  form,  he  had  the 
witness  in  himself.  His  plans  of  life  were,  of  course, 
entirely  reversed.  lie  banished  forever  those  dreams 
of  literary  and  political   ambition  in  which    he    had 


FIRST    IMPULSES    TOWARDS    MISSIONARY    LABOR.  29 

formerly  indulged,  and  simply  asked  himself,  How 
Hhall  I  so  order  my  future  being  as  best  to  please  God  ? 
The  portions  of  his  correspondence  which  belong  to 
this  period  indicate  an  earnest  striving  after  personal 
holiness,  and  an  enthusiastic  consecration  of  every 
endowment  to  the  service  of  Christ. 

In  June,  1809,  he  received  and  declined  the  ap- 
pointment to  a  tutorship  in  Brown  University. 

In  September  of  the  same  year,  he  read,  for  the  first 
time,  Buchanan's  "  Star  in  the  East."  It  was  this 
that  led  him  to  reflect  upon  the  personal  duty  of 
devoting  his  life  to  the  cause  of  missions.  The  subject 
occupied  his  prayerful  attention  until  February,  1810, 
when  he  finally  resolved,  in  obedience  to  what  he  be- 
lieved to  be  the  command  of  God,  to  become  a  mis- 
sionary to  the  heathen. 

The  following  letters  and  reminiscences  will,  I  think, 
enable  us  to  form  a  tolerably  definite  conception  of 
Mr.  Judson's  religious  character  during  his  preparation 
for  the  ministry,  and  of  the  impression  which  he  made 
upon  his  instructors  and  friends  :  — 

From  the  Rev.  Gardner  Spring,  D.  D.,  to  Mrs.  Emily  C.  Judson. 

.  .  .  Your  departed  husband  and  I  were  members  of 
the  same  class ;  met  daily  for  religious  and  scholastic  pur- 
poses ;  and  our  intercourse  was  uniformly,  and  to  the  last,  of 
the  most  pleasant  kind.  His  youthful  heart  was  glowing  with 
zeal  for  the  extension  of  the  gospel  to  this  lost  world.  He 
often  conversed  on  the  subject  with  me,  and  once  desired  me 
to  ascertain  the  views  of  my  deceased  father*  in  regard  to 
the  practicability  and  wisdom  of  the  enterprise  which  issued 
in  his  own  personal  devotement  to  the  missionary  cause. 
There  were  other  young  men  in  the  seminary  of  like  sympa- 

*  The  late  llev.  Dr.  Spring,  of  Newbim-port. 


30  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON, 

thies,  whose  names  you  know.  They  formed  a  lovely  cluster 
of  the  fruits  of  the  Spirit,  whose  fragrance  has  many  a  time 
diffused  itself  over  my  own  barren  heart,  and  is  allied  to  some 
of  the  sweeter  memories  of  my  ministry. 

From  lice.  Dr.  IVoods,  of  Andovcr,  to  ^Irs.  Emily  C.  Jadson. 

I  wish  I  could  do  more  in  compliance  with  your  request 
than  I  am  able  to  do.  I  have  had  letters  from  Dr.  Judson ; 
but  they  were  on  business,  and  are  not  now  easily  found.  My 
recollections  of  him  are  very  distinct  and  very  interesting. 
When  he  first  came  to  Andover,  he  was,  as  he  described  him- 
self in  the  church  at  Hamilton,  destitute  of  the  love  of  God, 
altogether  in  darkness  and  unbelief.  But  he  was  soon  visited, 
I  trust,  with  renewing  grace,  and,  after  some  time,  set  his  heart 
upon  the  salvation  of  the  heathen.  He  was  of  an  ardent  tem- 
perament, and  his  ardor  showed  itself  in  every  thing  he  un- 
dertook. His  mind  was  very  active,  and  he  excelled  in  schol- 
arship. When  he  visited  this  country,  my  intercourse  with  him 
at  Andover  and  at  Hamilton  was  very  deliglitful.  I  thought 
he  had  made  great  advances  in  the  divine  life,  and  was  adorned 
with  the  beauties  of  holiness.  He  now  is  regarded  by  the 
Christian  Avorld,  and  that  very  justly,  as  a  distinguished  mis- 
sionary—  eminent  in  labors,  in  sulGferings,  and  in  usefulness. 
His  memory  is  blessed,  and  God  has  been  glorified  in  him. 

Miss  Mary  Hasseltinc,  the  sister  of  Mrs.  Ann  II. 
Judson,  has  furnished  me  with  the  following  reminis- 
cences of  this  period  :  — 

My  recollections  of  his  youthful  eflforts  as  a  preacher  are, 
that  he  was  solemn,  impassioned,  logical,  and  highly  scriptural, 
without  much  of  the  hortatory,  with  no  far-fetched  figure  or 
studied  ornament  of  phrase.  I  can  see  his  erect,  commanding 
figure  in  the  sacred  desk,  his  manly  countenance  gloAving  with 
celestial  fire,  laboring  intensely  to  excite  in  his  hearers  an 
interest  in  those  high  and  holy  themes  that  so  fill  his  own  vis- 
ion.   Methinks  I  hear  his  strains  of  eloquence  as  he  proceeds : 


FIRST    IMl'ULSKS    TOWARDS    iMISSIONARY    LABOR.  31 

"  See  you  that  Christless  youth,  a  scorncr  of  God  and  good- 
ness? His  steps  take  hold  on  death,  his  vicious  career  hastens 
liim  onward  to  the  verge  of  time.  At  this  dread  moment, 
'  terrors  take  hold  on  him  as  Avaters,  as  a  storm  hurleth  him 
out  of  his  place.'  He  drops  into  those  dark  abodes,  where 
hope  never  comes ;  his  affrighted  spirit  shrieks  out.  How  long 
am  I  to  stay  in  tliis  place  of  torment  ?  From  every  part  of 
those  doleful  shades  is  reverberated,  Forever,  forever,  forever." 
His  eloquence  and  oratory  were  a  transcript  of  Dr.  Griffin's. 

His  first  introduction  to  our  family  was  in  the  summer  of 
1810,  at  the  general  association  of  Massachusetts,  which  met 
at  Bradford.  But  we  had  no  acquaintance  with  him  until  the 
succeeding  autumn.  He  was  then  in  all  the  ardor  of  his  first 
love.  It  inay  literally  be  said,  that  he  was  a  man  of  one  idea, 
and  that  was,  love  to  Jesus,  and  a  desu-e  to  manifest  it  in  all  its 
varied  forms.  Yet  he  was  by  nature  ardent,  impetuous,  and 
ambitious,  with  the  most  unshaken  confidence  in  his  own  judg- 
ment, irrespective  of  the  advice  of  his  seniors.  Of  these  pro- 
pensities he  was  fully  conscious,  and  against  them  continually 
warred. 

Mrs.  Ann  II.  Judson  gives  the  following  testimony  to  his  piety, 
in  a  letter  to  her  sisters,  after  a  residence  with  him  of  eleven 
years.  She  says,  "  I  feel  that  there  is  not  a  better  man  on  the 
globe  than  my  husband ;  not  one  who  labors  more  strenuously 
to  overcome  every  unhallawed  emotion  of  his  spirit."  She 
further  adds,  "  I  have  known  him  to  spend  whole  days  in  fast- 
ing and  prayer,  taking  no  nourishment  but  a  Httle  fruit  in  the 
morning,  passing  the  day  at  the  zayat,  and  returning  in  the 
evening  languid  and  pale."  "While  at  Calcutta,  the  subject  of 
a  situation  in  the  college  at  Fort  TVilliani  was  mentioned  to 
him.  He  remarked,  "  It  would  suit  my  ambitious  feelings,  but 
I  would  by  no  means  indulge  them."  It  was  remarked  by  the 
excellent  Dr.  Spring,*  that  he  was  aware  of  young  Judson's 
ambition;  but  when  God  should  have  disciplined  him  with 
trials,  he  would  be  admirably  fitted  for  his  great  work.    Should 

<»^  Of  Ncwburvport. 


32  MEMOIR    OF    DK.   JUDSON. 

lie  be  located  in  a  place  where  a  translation  of  the  Scriptures 
would  be  required,  he  was  so  fine  a  linguist  that  he  would  be 
the  very  man  to  prosecute  the  arduous  task. 

Some  of  the  letters  which  follow  were  written  at  a 
]ater  date  than  the  period  comprehended  within  the 
present  chapter.  They  all,  however,  relate  to  the  same 
subject, — the  religious  sentiments  of  Mr.  Judson  pre- 
vious to  the  time  of  his  embarkation  for  India,  —  and 
I  have  therefore  grouped  them  together  in  this  place. 

Letters  to  Miss  Ann  Ilasseltine. 
Andoveu,  December  30,  1810.  Sunday  Eve. 
I  have  been  through  the  labors  of  another  Sabbath.  A 
preacher  can  say  with  Pope,  "  E'en  Sunday  shines  no  day  of 
rest  to  me."  Brother  Nott  preaches  this  evening ;  but,  on 
account  of  a  cold,  I  stay  at  home.  I  am  persuaded  that  the 
chief  reason  why  we  do  not  enjoy  religion  is,  that  we  do  not 
try  to  enjoy  it.  We  are  not  like  a  good  man  who  resolved 
that  he  would  grow  in  grace.  We  pervert  the  doctrine  of  our 
dependence  to  indulging  indolence  and  sinful  ease.  I  have 
enjoyed  some  religion  to-day,  and  I  think  by  means  of  resolv- 
ing in  the  morning  that  I  would  avoid  every  thing  displeasing 
to  God.  I  have  some  hope  that  I  shall  be  enabled  to  keep 
this  in  mind,  in  whatever  I  do  —  *Is  it  pleasing  to  God'}  To 
assist  my  memory,  I  have  used  the  expedient  of  inscribing  it 
on  several  articles  which  frequently  meet  my  sight.  Is  it  not 
a  good  plan  ?  But  after  all,  it  will  be  of  no  use,  unless  I 
resolve,  in  divine  strength,  instantly  to  obey  the  decision  of 
conscience. 

December  31.  Monday  Eve. 
It  is  now  half  after  nine,  and  I  have  been  sitting  fifteen 
minutes  with  my  pen  in  hand,  thinking  how  to  begin.  I  have 
this  day  attained  more  than  ever  to  what  I  suppose  Christians 
mean  by  the  enjoyment  of  God.  I  have  had  pleasant  seasons 
at  the  thi-one  of  God.  Those  lines  of  Watts  have  been  very 
sweet  to  me  :  — 


FIRST    I3IPULSES    TOWARDS    MISSIONARY    LABOR.         33 

"  Till  tliou  hast  brought  me  to  my  homo, 
"Wliere  fears  and  doubts  can  never  come, 
Thy  countenance  let  me  often  see, 
.     And  often  thou  shalt  hear  from  me." 

7Sthof  IstBook. 

God  is  waiting  to  be  gracious,  and  is  willing  to  make  us  happy 
in  religion,  if  Ave  would  not  run  away  from  him.  We  refuse 
to  open  the  window  shutters,  and  complain  that  it  is  dark.  We 
grieve  the  Holy  Spirit  by  little  sins,  and  thus  lose  our  only 
support.  Perhaps  the  secret  of  living  a  holy  life  is  to  avoid 
every  thing  which  will  displease  God  and  grieve  the  Spirit, 
and  to  be  strictly  attentive  to  the  means  of  grace.  God  has 
promised  that  he  will  regard  the  man  that  is  of  a  broken  and 
contrite  spirit,  and  trembleth  at  his  word.  He  has  promised 
that  they  that  wait  upon  him  shall  renew  their  strength.  The 
Almighty,  the  immutably  faithful,  has  made  this  promise. 
He  is  not  a  man,  that  he  should  lie,  and  his  arm  is  not  of  flesh. 
Wait,  then,  upon  the  Lord.  Of  how  much  real  happiness  we 
cheat  our  souls  by  preferring  a  trifle  to  God !  We  have  a 
general  intention  of  living  religion ;  but  we  intend  to  begin 
to-morrow,  or  next  year.  The  present  moment  we  prefer 
giving  to  the  world.  "  A  little  more  sleep,  a  little  more  slum- 
ber." Well,  a  little  more  sleep,  and  we  shall  sleep  in  the 
grave.  A  few  days,  and  our  work  will  be  done.  And  when 
it  is  once  done,  it  is  done  to  all  eternity.  A  life  once  spent  is 
irrevocable.  It  will  remain  to  be  contemplated  through  eter- 
nity. If  it  be  marked  with  sins,  the  marks  will  be  indelible. 
If  it  has  been  a  useless  life,  it  can  never  be  improved.  Such 
it  will  stand  forever  and  ever.  The  same  may  be  said  of 
each  day.  When  it  is  once  past,  it  is  gone  forever.  All  the 
marks  which  we  put  upon  it  it  will  'exhibit  forever.  It  will 
never  become  less  true  that  such  a  day  was  spent  in  such  a 
manner.  Each  day  will  not  only  be  a  witness  of  our  conduct, 
but  will  aflect  our  everlasting  destiny.  No  day  will  lose  its 
share  of  influence  in  determining  where  shall  be  our  seat  in 
heaven.  How  shall  we  then  wish  to  see  each  day  marked 
with  usefulness !  It  will  then  be  too  late  to  mend  its  appear- 
ance.    It  is  too  late  to  mend  the  days  that  are  past.     The 


34  MEMOIR    OF   DR.   JUDSON. 

future  is  in  our  power.  Let  us,  then,  eacli  morning,  resolve 
to  send  the  day  into  eternity  in  such  a  garb  as  we  shall  wish 
it  to  wear  forever.  And  at  night  let  us  reflect  that  one  more 
day  is  irrevocably  gone,  indelibly  marked.     Good  night. 

January  1,  1811.  Tuesday  Morn. 
It  is  with  the  utmost  sincerity,  and  with  my  whole  lieart, 
that  I  wish  you,  my  love,  a  happy  new  year.  May  it  be  a 
year  in  which  your  walk  will  be  close  with  God  ;  your  frame 
calm  and  serene ;  and  the  road  that  leads  you  to  the  Lamb 
marked  with  purer  light.  May  it  be  a  year  in  which  you 
will  have  more  largely  the  spirit  of  Christ,  be  raised  above 
sublunary  things,  and  be  willing  to  be  disposed  of  in  this 
world  just  as  God  shall  i^lease.  As  every  moment  of  the 
year  will  bring  you  nearer  the  end  of  your  pilgrimage,  may 
it  bring  you  nearer  to  God,  and  find  you  more  prepared  to 
hail  the  messenger  of  death  as  a  deliverer  and  a  friend. 
And  now,  since  I  have  begun  to  wish,  I  will  go  on.  May  this 
be  the  year  in  which  you  will  change  your  name  ;  in  which 
you  will  take  a  final  leave  of  your  relatives  and  native  land  ; 
in  which  you  will  cross  the  wide  ocean,  and  dwell  on  the  other 
side  of  the  world,  among  a  heathen  j^cople.  What  a  great 
change  will  this  year  probably  effect  in  our  lives !  How  very 
different  will  be  our  situation  and  employment !  If  our  lives 
are  preserved  and  our  attempt  prospered,  we  shall  next  new 
year's  day  be  in  India,  and  perhaps  wish  each  other  a  happy 
new  year  in  the  uncouth  dialect  of  Hindostan  or  Burmah. 
We  shall  no  more  see  our  kind  friends  around  us,  or  enjoy  the 
conveniences  of  civilized  hfe,  or  go  to  the  house  of  God  with 
those  that  keep  holy  day;  but  swarthy  countenances  will 
every  where  meet  our  eye,  the  jargon  of  an  unknown  tongue 
will  assail  our  ears,  and  we  shall  witness  the  assembling  of 
the  heathen  to  celebrate  the  worship  of  idol  gods.  We  shall 
be  weary  of  the  world,  and  wish  for  wings  like  a  dove,  that 
we  may  fly  aAvay  and  be  at  rest.  We  shall  probably  ex- 
perience seasons  when  we  shall  be  "  exceeding  sorrowful, 
even  unto  death."     We  shall  see  many  dreary,  disconsolate 


FIRST   IMPULSES    TOWARDS    MISSIONARY   LABOR.         35 

hours,  and  feel  a  sinking  of  spirits,  anguish  of  mind,  of  which 
now  we  can  form  little  conception.  O,  we  shall  wish  to  lie 
down  and  die.  And  that  time  may  soon  come.  One  of  us 
may  be  unable  to  sustain  the  heat  of  the  climate  and  the 
change  of  habits  ;  and  the  other  may  say,  with  literal  truth, 
over  the  grave  — 

*<  By  foreign  hands  thy  dying  eyes  were  closed  ; 
By  foreign  hands  tliy  decent  Umbs  composed  ; 
By  foreign  hands  thy  humble  grave  adorned  ;  " 

but  whether  we  shall  be  honored  and  mourned  by  strangers, 
God  only  knows.  At  least,  either  of  us  will  be  certain  of 
one  mourner.  In  view  of  such  scenes  shall  we  not  pray  with 
earnestness,  "  0  for  an  overcoming  faith,"  &c.  ? 

JUDSON. 
Letter  to  Miss  Abigail  Hasseltiiie. 
Divinity  College,  Andoveb,  October  2-5,  1810. 

I  am  at  a  loss  what  appellation  to  use  in  addressing  you  ; 
so  believe  I  will  use  none. 

Meeting  to-day  with  one  Mr.  Osgood,  from  Pembroke,  an 
odd  fancy  came  into  my  head,  that  I  would  write  to  you  ; 
tliough  I  have  never  seen  you,  and  know  scarcely  any  thing 
of  you,  more  than  that  you  are  Ann's  sister,  and,  I  hope,  a 
lover  of  Jesus.  The  latter  circumstance  alone  would  not 
have  afforded  sufficient  ground  to  write  ;  so  you  must  charge 
this  letter  to  Ann's  account. 

In  mentioning  these  two  circumstances,  however,  I  have 
mentioned  a  great  deah  From  the  first  I  conclude  certainly 
tliat  you  are  a  person  by  whom  this  letter  will  be  honored  by 
being  received.  From  the  other  I  am  led  infinitely  higher, 
even  to  consider  you  (is  it  possible  for  sinners  to  attain  it  ?) 
an  heir  of  God,  and  joint  heir  with  Christ  to  an  inheritance, 
&e.  How  much  is  implied  in  that  one  phrase,  lover  of  Jesus  ! 
It  contains  a  claim  to  all  the  real  blessings  of  this  world,  and 
to  an  eternity  of  blessings.  Love  to  Jesus  is  a  sure  title  to 
the  greatest  possible  happiness  ;  for  Jesus  is  omnipotent,  and 
has  determined  to  make  his  friends  happy,  and  surely  will  not 


36  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

forget  a  single  one  in  Avliose  lieart  is  enkindled  one  spark  of 
love.  Nor  does  he  intend  a  partial  happiness  for  his  friends. 
It  will  be  as  great  as  their  capacity  will  admit.  Nor  does  he 
intend  a  temporal  happiness.  It  will  never  have  an  end. 
Nor  does  he  intend  a  happiness  eternally  stationary.  It  will 
be  eternally  increasing.  The  happiness  of  his  friends  will  not 
only  be  complete,  so  as  to  fill  their  capacity,  but  as  their 
capacities  will  be  eternally  enlarging,  the  quantity  of  happi- 
ness they  enjoy  will  be  eternally  increasing ;  and  not  merely 
eternally  increasing  in  the  same  ratio,  but  eternally  increasing 
in  an  eternally  accelerated  ratio.  So  that  there  will  unques- 
tionably arrive  a  moment  in  the  ages  of  eternity  when  the 
additional  happiness,  that  instant  superadded  to  the  happiness 
already  enjoyed  by  each  glorified  spirit,  will  almost  infinitely 
outweigh  the  whole  sum  of  human  happiness  enjoyed  in  this 
world.  To  all  this  may  he  aspire  who  is  a  lover  of  Jesus. 
Blessed  Jesus,  thou  art  no  "  niggard  provider."  "When  thou 
givest,  thou  givest  like  a  God. 

How  little  do  we,  sinful,  shortsighted  worms  of  the  dust, 
realize  these  things  !  If  we  did  realize  them,  could  we  possi- 
bly be  agitated  by  the  trifles  which  daily  occur  ?  Would  it 
be  possible  for  Christians  to  be  impatient  under  their  light 
afflictions,  which  are  but  for  a  moment  ?  Should  we  be  unwill- 
ing to  bear  all  the  hardships  and  sufferings  which  Jesus  lays 
upon  us  in  this  world,  if  we  had  a  realizing  conviction  that 
the  torment,  superadded  at  some  one  instant  in  eternity  to 
the  torment  already  endured  by  each  condemned  soul,  will 
almost  infinitely  outweigh  all  the  pain  ever  suffered  in  this 
world  ? 

Reminiscences  of  Conversations  loith  Dr.  Jicdson. 

I  have  often  heard  Dr.  Judson  speak  of  his  introduction  to 
Andover,  and  of  the  state  of  utter  darkness,  and  almost  de- 
spair, in  which  he  was  at  the  time.  I  have  also  heard  him  tell 
of  the  gradual  change  which  came  over  him ;  but  there  was 
nothing  sufficiently  striking  in  it  to  fasten  on  the  memory. 

There  was  none  of  his  characteristic  impetuosity  exhibited 


FIRST   IMPULSES    TOWARDS    MISSIONARY    LABOR.         37 

in  his  conversion ;  and  he  had  none  of  those  overpowering, 
Bunyan-hke  exercises,  either  before  or  after,  that  would  be 
looked  for  in  a  person  of  his  ardent  temperament.  He  was 
prayerful,  reflective,  and  studious  of  proofs  ;  and  gradually 
faith,  trust  in  God,  and  finally  a  hope  through  the  merits  of 
Christ,  took  possession  of  his  soul,  he  scarcely  knew  how ;  and 
from  the  moment  that  he  fully  believed,  I  think  he  never 
doubted.  He  said  he  felt  as  sure  that  he  was  an  entirely  new 
creature,  actuated  by  new  motives  and  governed  by  new  prin- 
ciples, as  he  was  sure  of  his  own  existence.  His  old  habits 
of  thought  and  feeling,  to  some  extent,  clung  to  him,  but  they 
were  made  subservient  to  higher  purposes  ;  and  though  he 
might  still  have  his  objects  of  ambition,  they  could  never  again 
be  of  the  first  moment.  The  change,  though  gradual,  was  too 
marked,  too  entire,  to  admit  of  a  moment's  doubt.  He  had  no 
exercises  on  the  subject  of  entering  the  ministry ;  it  became 
a  matter  of  course  immediately  on  his  indulging  a  hope. 

Dr.  Judson's  letter  to  Dr.  Chapin  describes  his  first  meeting 
with  Buchanan's  "  Star  in  the  East,"  and  its  effect  upon  him. 
He  has  often  related  the  same  circumstances  to  me,  sometimes 
giving  ludicrous  descriptions  of  his  own  conduct,  but  usually 
ending  by  thanking  God  that  he  had  been  granted,  in  any  way, 
such  a  vivid  conception  of  his  duty  as  to  preclude  all  subse- 
quent hesitancy  or  faltering.  But  however  extravagant  his 
conduct  may  have  been,  I  doubt  whether  his  feelings,  even 
then,  were  stronger  than  they  remained  in  after  life.  His 
missionary  views  were  always  of  the  most  comprehensive  and 
engrossing  character ;  and  his  remarks  in  our  monthly  con- 
certs, and  more  especially  at  the  close  of  a  day's  work  in 
private,  were  characterized  by  a  high-wrought  enthusiasm 
seldom  found  in  persons  of  his  maturity  of  years  and  judgment. 

He  devoured  with  great  greediness  every  scrap  of  informa- 
tion concerning  Eastern  countries ;  and  it  was  finally  Colonel 
Symes's  "  Embassy  to  Ava  "  which  first  turned  his  thoughts 
to  Burmah.  These  glowing  and  overwrought  pictures  were 
peculiarly  congenial  to  his  romantic  spirit ;  but  it  is  again 
remarkable  that  the  interest  thus  excited  was  never  lost ;  that, 
VOL.   I.  4 


38  MEMOIR    OF   DK.    JUDSON. 

on  the  contrary,  it  grew  deeper  and  stronger  as  the  brilliant 
fancy  colors  faded.  He  did  not  think  exclusively  of  Burmah, 
however,  though  his  predilections  for  that  country  were  strong. 
His  heart  from  the  first  was  turned  entirely  to  the  East,  and 
he  was  impatient  of  any  thing  short  of  a  life  devotement. 

He  spent  the  winter  vacation,  1810,  at  Plymouth,  and 
attended  a  meeting  at  Old  Dedham,  where  there  was  a  great 
revival.  Up  to  this  time  his  parents  had  not  been  made 
acquainted  with  his  missionary  views.  He  felt  an  exceedingly 
great  reluctance  to  break  the  matter  to  his  father,  whose  am- 
bitious views  with  regard  to  him  he  very  well  knew,  and  who 
was  not  likely,  he  thought,  to  fall  in  with  a  plan  of  this  sort. 
One  evening  his  father  threw  out  some  hints  of  splendid 
prospects  in  the  future,  and  his  mother  and  sister  showed  by 
smiling  innuendoes  that  they  were  in  the  secret.  Adoniram 
became  alarmed,  and  begged  his  father  to  explain  himself,  as 
their  views  with  regard  to  the  future  might  not  coincide,  and  it 
was  desirable  to  have  an  understanding  on  the  subject.  His 
father  was  very  sure  there  would  be  no  difference  of  opinion, 
and  then  proceeded  to  explain  that  the  Rev.  Dr.  Griffin  had 
proposed  his  son  as  his  colleague  in  "  the  largest  church  in 
Boston."  "  And  you  will  be  so  near  home ! "  added  his 
mother.  His  heart  seemed  bursting,  and  he  could  not  answer 
either  of  them.  But  soon  his  sister  joined  in  the  conversation, 
and  to  her  he  replied,  "  No,  sister ;  I  shall  never  live  in  Bos- 
ton. I  have  much  farther  than  that  to  go."  Steadily  and 
calmly,  but  most  fervidly,  he  proceeded  to  describe  the  course 
which  he  had  marked  out  for  himself;  and  though  it  occa- 
sioned his  mother  and  sister  very  many  tears,  his  father 
scarcely  offered  a  word  of  opposition.  He  wisely  acquiesced 
in  what  he  probably  saw  was  inevitable. 

Dr.  Griffin  had  conferred  thus  early  with  the  elder  Judson, 
with  regard  to  his  son,  that  he  might  prevent  him  from  com- 
mitting himself  to  any  other  plan. 

While  at  Andover,  Mr.  Judson's  attention  was  first  called  to 
the  subject  of  health.  He  was  thought  to  possess  a  certain 
delicacy  of  constitution,  with  a  tendency  to  consumption.     It 


FIRST   IMPULSES    TOWARDS    MISSIONARY   LABOR.        39 

occurred  to  liim,  that,  if  he  became  a  missionary,  it  was  impor- 
tant that  he  should  study  the  best  mode  of  promoting  health 
and  prolonging  life,  as  on  these  his  usefulness  would  in  a 
great  measure  depend.  He  therefore  entered  into  a  careful 
study  of  physiology,  and  arrived  at  certain  practical  rules, 
which  always  afterwards  governed  him.  Among  these,  the 
first  was,  frequently  to  inhale  large  quantities  of  air,  so  as  to 
expand  the  lungs  to  the  utmost ;  the  second,  daily  to  sponge 
the  whole  body  in  cold  water ;  the  third,  and  above  all,  to 
take  systematic  exercise  in  walking.  All  these  he  carried  out 
to  the  end  of  his  life,  insisting  that  no  exercise,  such  as  gar- 
dening, riding,  &c.,  could  be  substituted  for  walking ;  that  is, 
could  answer  as  a  full  substitute.  How  much  the  length  of 
his  hfe  depended  on  this,  it  is  impossible  to  say;  but  it  is  at 
least  illustrative  of  his  character.  No  man  was  ever  more 
ready  to  expose  himself  to  dangers  and  privations ;  but  even 
when  doing  what  would  appear  to  worldly  men  the  most  reck- 
less things,  he  studied  every  precaution,  and  provided  himself 
with  every  comfort  that  the  case  would  admit  of,  and  always 
strove  to  impress  on  his  missionary  associates  a  similar  daring 
with  a  similar  thoughtfulness. 

The  preceding  letters  show  that,  from  the  time  of 
his  self-consecration  to  the  missionary  service,  he  be- 
came, in  the  highest  sense,  a  man  of  one  idea.  He 
offered  himself  up  a  living  sacrifice  on  the  altar,  and 
seemed  to  look  forward  with  pleasm'e  to  suffering  and 
affliction,  if  it  were  to  be  endured  in  the  path  of 
Christian  duty. 

It  has  been  already  mentioned,  that  in  September, 
1809,  Mr.  Judson  first  began  to  consider  his  personal 
duty  in  relation  to  missions.  In  February,  1810,  he 
resolved  to  become  a  missionary  to  the  heathen.  In 
the  interval  between  these  two  dates,  several  young 
men,  whose  names  have  now  become  familiar  to  us  as 
household  words,  joined  the  seminary  from  Williams 


40  MEMOIR    OF   DR.   JUDSON. 

College.  Among  them  were  Samuel  J.  Mills,  Jr., 
James  Richards,  and  Luther  Rice.  They  had  already 
formed  a  missionary  society  in  college,  the  object  of 
which  was  to  train  themselves  for  the  work  of  mis- 
sions to  the  heathen.  The  second  article  of  their 
constitution  was  in  the  following  words  :  "  The  object 
of  this  society  shall  be  to  effect,  in  the  persons  of  its 
members,  a  mission  or  missions  to  the  heathen."  In 
the  fifth  article  it  is  provided,  that  ''  no  person  shall 
be  admitted  who  is  under  an  obligation  of  any  kind 
which  shall  be  incompatible  with  going  on  a  mission 
to  the  heathen."  The  sixth  article  is  as  follows : 
"  Each  member  shall  keep  himself  absolutely  free 
from  every  engagement,  which,  after  his  prayerful 
attention,  and  after  consultation  with  the  brethren, 
shall  be  deemed  incompatible  with  the  object  of  this 
society,  and  shall  hold  himself  in  readiness  to  go  on  a 
mission  when  and  where  duty  may  call." 

This  constitution  was  signed  September  7,  1808, 
about  a  month  before  Mr.  Judson  entered  the  semi- 
nary at  Andover. 

The  most  active  promoter  of  this  missionary  asso- 
ciation in  Williams  College,  I  think,  without  doubt, 
was  Samuel  J.  Mills.  He  entered  college  in  1806, 
having,  as  it  seems,  relinquished  secular  pursuits,  and 
entered  upon  a  course  of  education,  for  the  purpose 
of  preparing  himself  for  missionary  labor.  While  in 
college  he  presented  the  subject  to  James  Richards, 
Luther  Rice,  and  Gordon  Hall.  With  them  he  united 
ill  the  formation  of  this  same  missionary  fraternity, 
and  his  whole  life,  from  that  time  forward,  was  exclu- 
sively devoted  to  the  work  of  missions. 

Several  of  the  members  of  this  society  entered  the 
Theological  Seminary  in  1809.     They  were  here  joined 


MISSIONARY   ASSOCIATIONS.  41 

by  Rev.  Samuel  Nott,  Jr.,  who,  a  year  before,  while 
studying  theology  with  his  father,  the  Rev.  Samuel 
Nott,  D.  D.,  of  Franklin,  Connecticut,  had  been  deeply 
impressed  with  the  conviction  of  his  duty  to  carry  the 
gospel  to  the  heathen.  Judson  was  already  consider- 
ing the  subject,  and  in  the  following  February  came 
to  a  decision.  We  thus  perceive  that,  in  these  several 
places,  the  Spirit  of  God  was  leading  different  indi- 
viduals to  dedicate  themselves  to  the  cause  of  the 
heathen.  In  1809  and  1810  they  were  brousrht  to- 
gether  at  Andover,  and  becoming  known  to  each  oth- 
er, were  soon  united  in  bonds  of  Christian  affection. 
Henceforward  their  plans  were  formed  in  common. 
One  leading  impulse  moved  them  all.  They  conversed 
together,  they  prayed  together,  and  they  labored  to- 
gether to  kindle  the  missionary  flame  in  Andover,  in 
many  of  the  colleges  in  our  country,  and  among  the 
churches  wherever  they  were  called  to  preach.  In 
this  manner  they  cultivated  the  spirit  of  self-devotion 
in  their  own  hearts,  and  were  anxiously  looking  for 
those  indications  of  divine  Providence  which  should 
point  out  the  way  in  which  their  desires  might  be  ac- 
complished. 

Mr.  Judson's  name  was  not  affixed  to  the  constitu- 
tion of  this  missionary  association  until  1811.  The 
reason  of  this  apparent  delay  is,  I  presume,  found  in 
the  fact  that  the  society  existed  for  several  years,  in 
Williams  College,  before  it  was  removed  to  Andover ; 
and  he  probably,  in  this  formal  manner,  united  with 
his  brethren  as  soon  as  an  opportunity  was  afforded. 

It  has  been  supposed  that  the  young  men  at  Wil- 
liams College,  and  all  their  associates  but  Judson, 
had  directed  their  attention  exclusively  to  western  mis- 
sions, until  they  met  him  at  Andover.  This  opinion 
4* 


42  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

is,  I  think,  incorrect.     Mr.  Nott,  in  1808,  had  thought 
only  of  eastern  missionvS.     The  constitution  of  the  so- 
ciety refers  in  general  to  heathen,  without  any  indica- 
tion of  a  preference  for  either  the  East  or  the  West. 
If  missions  to  our  own  Indians  were  first  thought 
of,  I  imagine  that  this  idea  was  very  soon  merged  in 
a  more   comprehensive   one.     Mills,  during  a  visit  to 
New  Haven,  became   acquainted   with    Henry   Oboo- 
kiah,  a  native  of  the  Sandwich  Islands.     He  at  once 
devised  means  for  giving  him  a  Christian  education, 
that  he  might  go  back  and  evangelize  his  countrymen. 
In  writing  to  Mr.  Hall  on  this  subject,  under  date  of 
December  20,  1809,  Mr.  Mills  says,  "  What  does  this 
mean,  brother  Hall  ?     Do  you  understand  it  ?     Shall 
he   be  sent  back  unsupported  to  reclaim  his  country- 
men ?     Shall  not  we  consider  these  southern  islands 
a   proper  place   for  the  establishment  of  a  mission  ? 
Not  that  I  would   give  up  the  heathen  tribes  to  the 
westward.     I  trust  that  we  shall  be  able  to  establish 
more  than  one  mission   in  a  short  time,  at  least  in  a 
few  years.      I  mean  that  God  will  enable  us  to  extend 
our  views  and  labors  farther  than  we  have  before  con- 
templated.    We  ought  not  to  look  only  to  the  heathen 
on  our  own  continent.     We  ought  to  direct  our  atten- 
tion to  that  place  where  we  may,  to  human  appear- 
ance, do  the  most  good,  and  where  the  difficulties  are 
the   least.     .     .     .     The    field    is    almost   boundless ; 
in  every  part  of  which  there  ought  to  be  missionaries. 
In  the  language  of  an   animated  writer,  '  O  that  we 
could  enter  at  a  thousand  gates,  that  every  limb  were 
a  tongue,  and  every  tongue  a  trumpet,  to  spread  the 
gospel  sound !     The  man  of  Macedonia  cries.  Come 
over  and  help  us.     This  voice  is  heard  from  the  east 
and  from  the  west,   from   the   north    and   from   the 


MISSIONARY   ASSOCIATIONS. 


43 


south.'  "  This  was  written  by  S.  J.  Mills  before  he 
had  been  at  Andover,  and  about  three  weeks  after 
Judson  had  first  turned  his  thoughts  especially  to  mis- 
sions. In  the  same  letter,  however,  the  following  re- 
mark is  made  about  Judson,  which  shows  that  his 
views  of  missions  were  known  to  his  brethren,  and 
that  he  ha^  turned  his  attention  to  the  evangelization 
of  the  East :  "  With  regard  to  Andover,  two  of  the 
brethren  are  there ;  I  think  it  likely  I  shall  go  there 
myself  soon,  or  within  four  or  five  weeks.  I  heard 
previously  of  Mr.  Judson.  You  say  he  thinks  of  of- 
fering himself  as  a  missionary  to  the  London  Society, 
for  the  East  Indies.  What!  is  England  to  support 
her  own  missionaries  and  ours  likewise  ?  O,  for 
shame !  If  he  is  prepared  to  go,  I  would  fain  press 
him  forward  with  the  arm  of  a  Hercules,  if  I  had  the 
strength  ;  but  I  do  not  like  this  dependence  on  another 
nation,  especially  when  they  have  already  done  so 
much,  and  we  nothing." 

From  all  the  facts  within  my  knowledge,  I  think  it 
probable  that  Messrs.  Judson  and  Nott,  who  were  spe- 
cially intimate,  had  their  minds,  in  the  first  instance, 
turned  to  the  East,  as  a  field  of  missions  ;  and  that 
Mr.  Judson  had  specially  fixed  his  eye  on  Burmah. 

The  brethren  at  Williams  College,  while  devoting 
themselves  to  missions  in  general,  had  their  attention 
at  first  directed  to  the  aborigines  on  our  own  continent. 
Their  views,  however,  immediately  expanded  as  the 
field  opened  before  them  ;  and  they  looked  at  heathen- 
dom as  their  appropriate  province,  prepared  to  enter 
it  at  any  point,  wherever  the  providence  of  God  should 
direct.  It  is  possible  that  the  brethren  who  went  to 
Andover  before  Mills  had  not  expanded  their  views  as 
rapidly  as   he.     When,  however,  they  met  together 


44  MEMOIR    OF   DR.   JUDSON. 

and  compared  their  purposes,  they  were  easily  con- 
vinced that  Asia,  with  its  idolatrous  myriads,  was 
the  most  important  field  on  earth  for  missionary  effort. 
The  attention  of  the  whole  company  seems  hence- 
forth to  have  been  turned  almost  exclusively  to  the 
East. 

Another  subject  here  presents  itself,  on  i^vhich  it  is 
necessary  to  bestow  a  passing  notice.  It  has  been 
frequently  said  that  the  world  is  indebted  to  the 
young  men  at  Andover  for  the  formation  of  the 
American  Board  of  Commissioners.  That  they  were 
the  occasion  of  the  formation  of  the  board,  is,  I  think, 
true.  It  is  also  true  that,  but  for  them,  the  board 
would  not  have  been  formed  at  that  particular  time. 
But,  if  we  would  ascertain  the  whole  truth,  I  think 
we  must  look  also  at  that  condition  of  the  public 
mind  which,  at  their  first  application  for  missionary 
service,  shaped  itself  into  so  important  an  organiza- 
tion. 

It  is  well  known  that  as  early  as  May  28,  1799,  an 
association  was  formed  in  Boston  under  the  name  of 
the  Massachusetts  Missionary  Society.  The  object 
of  this  society  was,  "  to  diffuse  the  knowledge  of  the 
gospel  among  the  heathens,  as  well  as  other  people  in 
the  remote  parts  of  our  country,  where  Christ  is  sel- 
dom or  never  preached."  In  1804,  the  constitution 
of  this  society  was  so  modified  that  the  article  de- 
fining its  object  was  made  to  read  as  follows  :  "  The 
object  of  this  society  is,  to  diffuse  the  gospel  among 
the  people  of  the  newly-settled  and  remote  parts  of 
our  country,  among  the  Indians  of  the  country,  and 
through  more  distant  regions  of  the  earth,  as  circum- 
stances shall  invite,  and  the  ability  of  the  society 
shall  admit."   In  1803,  this  society  commenced   the 


ORIGIN    OF    THE    BOARD    OF    COMMISSIONERS.  45 

publication  of  the  Massachusetts  Missionary  Maga- 
zine, of  which  the  object  was,  to  circulate  missionary- 
intelligence,  and  awaken  and  diffuse  a  missionary 
spirit  among  the  Congregational  churches  in  New 
England.  This  periodical  was  continued  until  1808, 
when  it  was  merged  in  the  Panoplist,  which,  in  turn, 
gave  way  to  the  present  Missionary  Herald.  The 
General  Assembly's  Missionary  Magazine,  or  Reli- 
gious Intelligencer,  was  commenced  in  January,  1805, 
and  was  conducted  with  singular  ability.  In  1806, 
the  Rev.  Dr.  Griffin  delivered  the  annual  missionary 
sermon  before  the  General  Assembly  in  Philadelphia. 
In  this  discourse  the  claims  of  the  heathen  are  urged 
with  an  eloquence  which  has  seldom  been  surpassed. 
Mr.  John  Norris,  a  wealthy  merchant  of  Salem,  was 
deeply  interested  in  the  cause  of  the  heathen,  and 
made  a  large  donation  to  the  Andover  Theological 
Seminary,  because  such  an  institution  would  aid  in 
carrying  forward  his  favorite  object.  Robert  Rallston, 
Esq.,  of  Philadelphia,  at  one  time  remitted  to  the 
Baptist  mission  at  Serampore,  for  himself  and  others, 
three  thousand  three  hundred  and  fifty-seven  dollars 
and  sixty-three  cents.  Dr.  Carey  acknowledged  the 
receipt  of  six  thousand  dollars  from  American  Chris- 
tians during  the  years  1806  and  1807.  The  interest 
of  our  churches  in  missions  to  the  East  was  also,  from 
time  to  time,  quickened  by  the  arrival  of  missionaries 
from  England,  on  their  w^ay  to  India,  or  on  their 
return  home,  as,  at  that  time,  they  could  not  obtain 
passage  in  any  of  the  ships  of  the  East  India  Com- 
pany. I  well  remember,  in  my  boyhood,  the  tempo- 
rary residence  of  such  missionaries  in  New  York,  and 
the  deep  interest  which  their  presence  occasioned  in 
all   the    churches    in    that   city.      In   1809,   the    Rev. 


46  MEMOIR    OF   DR.  JUDSON. 

Dr.  Worcester  delivered  the  annual  sermon  before 
the  Massachusetts  Missionary  Society  —  a  discourse 
which,  for  depth  of  earnestness  and  power  of  appeal, 
may  be  advantageously  compared  with  the  most  elo- 
quent missionary  sermons  that  have  yet  appeared. 
Buchanan's  "  Star  in  the  East,"  which  was  published 
in  the  course  of  the  year  1808  or  1809,  must  have 
increased  and  disseminated  much  more  widely  the 
missionary  spirit  which  was  already  awakened  in  the 
community.* 

Such  was  the  condition  of  the  Congregational  and 
Presbyterian  denominations.  The  same  spirit,  to  a 
considerable  degree,  animated  the  Baptist  churches, 
though  their  number  was  small,  and  their  means  but 
feeble.  The  Baptist  Missionary  Society  of  Massa- 
chusetts was  formed  before  1803.  In  that  year,  Dr. 
Baldwin,  at  the  request  of  the  society,  commenced 
the  publication  of  the  Massachusetts  Baptist  Mis- 
sionary Magazine.  This  periodical  had  an  extensive 
circulation  throughout  the  Northern  States.  It  was 
principally  occupied  by  the  journals  of  missionaries 
in  our  frontier  settlements,  narratives  of  revivals  in 
our  churches,  and  missionary  intelligence  from  abroad. 
Dr.  Baldwin  was  a  correspondent  of  Dr.  Carey,  of 
Fuller,  and  of  Ryland  ;  and,  being  imbued  with  their 
spirit,  he  delighted  to  cooperate  with  them  in  spread- 
ing before  his  brethren  the  accounts  which  they  fur- 
nished of  the  triumphs  of  the  cross. 

In  the  year  1812,  the  Salem  Bible  Translation  and 
Foreign  Mission  Society  was  formed,  under  the  fos- 

*  For  tlie  above  facts,  and  many  others  on  this  subject,  I  am  in- 
debted to  the  Ilcv.  Dr.  S.  M.  Worcester's  deeply  interesting  life  of  his 
father,  the  Rev.  Samuel  Worcester,  D.  D.,  the  distinguished  secre- 
tary of  the  A.  B.  C.  F.  M. 


ORIGIN    OF    THE    BOARD    OF     COMMISSIONERS.  47 

tering  care  of  the  late  Rev.  Dr.  BoUes.  This  society, 
until  the  establishment  of  the  Baptist  General  Con- 
vention, contributed  its  collections  in  aid  of  the  Bap- 
tist missions  in  the  East  Indies.  Nor  would  it  be 
just  to  omit,  in  this  place,  the  name  of  the  Rev.  Wil- 
liam Staughton,  D.  D.,  pastor  of  the  Sansom  Street 
Church,  Philadelphia,  and  afterwards  secretary  of 
the  Baptist  General  Convention.  He  had  been,  when 
in  England,  the  friend  and  associate  of  the  most  effi- 
cient friends  of  missions  there.  He  was  in  frequent 
correspondence  with  all  of  them,  and  was,  perhaps, 
the  most  direct  channel  by  which  their  spirit  was 
diffused  among  our  churches.  Distinguished  for  elo- 
quence, varied  accomplishments,  and  most  animating 
views  of  the  progress  of  the  gospel,  the  triumph  of 
the  cross  was  always  a  favorite  theme  in  his  dis- 
courses. Many  of  our  most  successful  ministers  were 
his  students  in  theology  ;  and  they  imbibed  in  a  happy 
degree  his  characteristic  sentiments. 

Of  course,  I  do  not  assume  that  the  missionary 
spirit  was  at  this  time  universal.  Far  from  it.  It  is 
by  no  means  universal  now.  Men  of  enlarged  views, 
steadfast  faith,  and  ardent  piety,  in  various  denomina- 
tions, had  become,  to  a  good  degree,  interested  in  the 
subject  of  missions,  and  their  influence  was  diffusing 
itself  among  their  less  favored  brethren.  The  beams 
of  the  sun  had  only  fallen  upon  the  tops  of  the  moun- 
tains ;  they  had  not  yet  rested  upon  the  hillsides  ; 
much  less  had  they  penetrated  into  the  valleys.  Yet 
the  mountain  tops  testified  that  the  sun  had  risen. 

As  yet,  no  general  organization  had  been  formed 
for  carrying  the  gospel  to  the  heathen.  Nor  is  this 
to  be  wondered  at.  It  was  much  less  easy  to  form 
general   organizations   then  than   at   present.     That 


48  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

was  not  the  age  of  steamboats,  railroads,  or  tele- 
graphs. Besides  this,  our  national  character  has 
changed  greatly  in  the  course  of  forty  or  fifty  years. 
We  were  then  by  no  means  conscious  of  our  strength. 
There  were  then  comparatively  few  things  in  which 
we  had  tried  what  we  could  do.  This  want  of 
national  confidence  affected  all  our  public  decisions, 
and  it,  of  course,  had  its  effect  on  our  views  of  what 
was  practicable  in  the  missionary  enterprise. 

In  this  state  of  public  feeling,  all  that  was  wanted 
was  the  occurrence  of  some  event  which  should  im- 
pose upon  the  friends  of  missions  the  necessity  for 
immediate  action.  Such  an  event  was  found  in  the 
application  of  the  young  men  at  Andover,  to  the 
General  Association  of  Massachusetts,  for  an  appoint- 
ment as  missionaries  to  the  heathen. 

The  more  important  facts  relating  to  this  transac- 
tion are,  I  think,  the  following  :  The  Andover  breth- 
ren had  made  it  a  point  to  interest  in  their  enterprise 
the  most  influential  clergymen  in  that  vicinity.  Op- 
portunity was  aflforded  for  this  purpose  in  their  various 
excursions  for  the  supply  of  vacant  pulpits  in  the  sur- 
rounding towns.  They  had  also  frequently  presented 
the  subject  to  their  instructors,  the  professors  of  the 
seminary.  In  consequence  of  these  preliminary  labors, 
^'  by  a  concerted  arrangement,  Drs.  Spring  and  Worces- 
ter met  the  professors,  with  a  few  others,  for  consul- 
tation, at  the  house  of  Professor  Stuart,  at  Andover, 
on  Monday,  June  25,  1810.  It  was  a  meeting  never 
to  be  forgotten.  Advice  was  given  to  Mills  and  his 
associates  to  submit  their  case  to  the  General  Asso- 
ciation, which  was  to  meet  the  next  day  at  Bradford, 
and  which  Dr.  Spring  and  Dr.  Worcester  were  expect- 
ing to  attend  as  delegates.     When  this  advice  was 


ORIGIN    OF   THE    BOARD    OF    COMMISSIONERS.  49 

given,  the  idea  of  such  a  body  of  men  as  '  The 
American  Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Mis- 
sions '  had  not  been  suggested^  *  Dr.  Worcester,  in  a 
letter  dated  March  23,  1821,  only  three  months  before 
his  lamented  death,  has  given  the  following  account  of 
the  first  conception  of  the  American  Board  :  "  The  day 
of  small  things  is  in  fresh  remembrance.  On  the  25th 
of  June,  1810,  serious  deliberation,  attended  with  fer- 
vent prayer,  was  heM  at  Andover,  relative  to  the  burn- 
ing desire  of  three  or  four  theological  students  there 
to  be  employed  as  missionaries  to  the  heathen.  The 
result  was  to  refer  the  momentous  question  to  the 
General  Association  of  Massachusetts.  The  next 
day.  Dr.  Spring  took  a  seat  in  my  chaise,  and  rode 
with  me  to  Bradford,  where  the  General  Association 
was  to  convene.  In  the  conversation  on  the  way,  the 
first  idea,  I  believe,  of  the  American  Board  of  Com- 
missioners for  Forni gn  Missions  was  suggested  ;  the 
form,  the  number  of  members,  and  name  were  pro- 
posed. On  the  27th,  the  question  came  before  the 
association,  and  the  report  of  the  committee,  which 
was  adopted  by  that  body,  was  the  substance  of  the 
result  of  the  conversation  in  the  chaise."  f 

The  application  was  made  to  the  General  Associa- 
tion according  to  the  suggestion  here  spoken  of,  on  the 
28th  of  June,  1810,  and  referred  to  a  committee.  On 
the  following  day,  a  report  was  presented  and  adopted, 
and  the  first  board  of  commissioners  elected.  This 
seems  to  have  been  the  manner  in  which  it  pleased 
God  to  unite  the  labors  and  counsels  of  the  fathers, 
into  whose  breasts  he  had  breathed  the  missionary 
spirit,  with   the    seif-denying   zeal    of  their   younger 

♦  Life  of  Worcester,  vol.  ii.  p.  99.  f  lb.  p.  106. 

VOL.    I.  o 


50  MEMOIR    OF   DR.    JUDSON. 

brethren,  who  had  solemnly  dedicated  themselves  to 
God,  as  the  heralds  of  his  gospel  to  the  heathen. 

I  am  aware  that,  to  the  young  missionaries,  the 
fathers,  who  became  the  pillars  of  the  enterprise,  ap- 
peared at  first  slow  of  heart  to  believe,  and  backward 
in  committing  themselves  to  this  great  midertaking. 
Though  they  always  spoke  in  public  in  favor  of  mis- 
sions, yet  they  seemed  to  them  not  fully  prepared  to 
carry  their  principles  into  practice.  Nor  is  this  to  be 
wondered  at.  Between  the  adoption  of  a  principle 
and  the  carrying  it  out  into  practice,  under  new  and 
untried  circumstances,  there  is  an  interval  over  which 
the  wisely  resolute  are  prone  to  step  wdth  caution. 
They  instinctively  watch  for  the  leadings  of  divine 
Providence.  They  hesitate  to  pledge  themselves 
before  they  are  in  possession  of  all  the  facts  in  the 
case,  and  until  the  time  for  action  has  arrived.  They 
are  also  cautious  in  the  selection  of  their  associates, 
and  are  unwilling  to  become  responsible  for  the 
actions  of  men  whose  character  and  principles  they 
do  not  fully  understand.  To  young  men  of  ardent 
hope  and  burning  enthusiasm,  who,  gazing  intently  on 
the  object,  are  liable  to  overlooiv  the  means  by  \vhich 
it  is  to  be  accomplished,  such  conduct  seems  frequently 
timid  and  unbelieving,  if  not  over-cautious  and  half- 
hearted. All  this,  in  the  commencement  of  an  im- 
portant undertaking,  is  reasonably  to  be  expected.  A 
few  years  of  experience  enables  both  parties  to  look  at 
the  subject  through  the  same  medium.  The  old 
acquire  confidence  by  putting  forth  their  strength, 
and  the  young  learn  to  respect  caution  by  sufi'ering 
the  penalties  of  rashness.  Divine  wisdom  thus  makes 
use  of  the  opposite  impulses  of  good  men  to  carry 
into  effect  its  own  merciful  designs. 


ACCOUNT    OF   EARLY   MISSIONARY   IMPRESSIONS.         51 

It  was  while  visiting  Bradford,  to  attend  the  meet- 
ing of  the  General  Association,  that  Mr.  Judson  first 
became  acquainted  with  Ann  Hasseltine,  who  after- 
wards became  so  well  known  to  the  Christian  world 
as  Mrs.  Ann  H.  Judson. 

On  the  5th  of  September,  1810,  Mr.  Judson  was 
admitted  to  the  degree  of  Master  of  Arts  in  Brown 
University.  On  the  24th  of  the  same  month,  he 
completed  his  course  of  education  in  the  Theological 
Seminary  at  Andover.  On  the  17th  of  May  preceding, 
when  on  a  visit  to  Vermont  with  some  of  his  breth- 
ren, he  had  been  licensed  to  preach  by  the  Orange  As- 
sociation of  Congregationalist  Ministers  in  that  state. 

The  following  letters  will  present,  in  detail,  the  facts 
which  have  been  briefly  alluded  to  in  the  foregoing 
pages :  — 

To  Rev.  Br.  Chapin,  President  of  Columbian  College,  Washington,  D.  G. 

MAULMArN",  December  18,  1837. 

Very  dear  Brother  :  Yours  of  March  21st  I  have  re- 
ceived with  great  pleasure,  and  shall  be  glad  to  answer  your 
inquiries,  and  give  you  any  information  in  my  power. 

I  had  addressed  a  letter  to  brother  Rice,  dated  July  13, 
1836,  which  could  not,  however,  have  reached  him  before  his 
death.  As  that  letter  contains  considerable  information  which 
has  a  bearing  on  the  subject  of  your  inquiries,  I  will  first 
transcribe  it,  and  then  subjoin  remarks  on  some  other  points. 
"My  dear  Brother  Rice:  You  ask  me  to  give  you  some 
account  of  my  first  missionary  impressions,  and  those  of 
my  earliest  associates.  Mine  were  occasioned  by  reading 
Buchanan's  *  Star  in  the  East,'  in  the  year  1809,  at  the  An- 
dover Theological  Seminary.  Though  I  do  not  now  consider 
that  sermon  as  peculiarly  excellent,  it  produced  a  very  power- 
ful elFect  on  my  mind.  For  some  days  I  was  unable  to  attend 
to  the  studies  of  my  class,  and  spent  my  t;nie  in  wondering  at 


52  MEMOIR    OP   DR.   JUDSON. 

my  past  stupidity,  depicting  the  most  romantic  scenes  in  mis- 
sionary life,  and  roving  about  the  college  rooms,  declaiming 
on  the  subject  of  missions.  My  views  were  very  incorrect, 
and  my  feelings  extravagant;  but  yet  I  have  always  felt 
thankful  to  God  for  bringing  me  into  that  state  of  excitement, 
which  was  perhaps  necessary,  in  the  first  instance,  to  enable 
me  to  break  the  strong  attachment  I  felt  to  home  and  country, 
and  to  endure  the  thought  of  abandoning  all  my  wonted  pur- 
suits and  animating  prospects.  That  excitement  soon  passed 
away ;  but  it  left  a  strong  desire  to  prosecute  my  inquiries,  and 
ascertain  the  path  of  duty.  It  was  during  a  solitary  walk  in 
the  woods  behind  the  college,  while  meditating  and  praying  on 
the  subject,  and  feeling  half  inclined  to  give  it  up,  that  the 
command  of  Christ,  *  Go  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the 
gospel  to  every  creature,'  was  presented  to  my  mind  with 
such  clearness  and  power,  that  I  came  to  a  full  decision,  and 
though  great  difficulties  appeared  in  my  way,  resolved  to  obey 
the  command  at  all  events.  But,  at  Hiat  period,  no  provision 
had  been  made  in  America  for  a  foreign  mission,  and  for 
several  months,  after  reading  Buchanan,  I  found  none  among 
the  students  who  viewed  the  subject  as  I  did,  and  no  minister 
in  the  place  or  neighborhood  who  gave  me  any  encourage- 
ment ;  and  I  thought  that  I  should  be  under  the  necessity  of 
going  to  England  and  placing  myself  under  foreign  patronage. 
"  My  earliest  missionary  associate  was  Nott ;  who,  though  he 
had  recently  entered  the  seminary,  (in  the  early  part  of  1810,) 
was  a  member  of  the  same  class  with  myself.  He  had  con- 
sidered the  subject  for  several  months,  but  had  not  fully  made 
up  his  mind.  About  the  same  time.  Mills,  Richards,  and 
others  joined  the  seminary  from  Williams  College,  where  they 
had,  for  some  time,  been  in  the  habit  of  meeting  for  prayer 
and  conversation  on  the  subject  of  missions ;  but  they  entered 
the  junior  class,  and  had  several  years  of  theological  study 
before  them.  You  were  of  the  same  standing,  but  from  some 
engagement,  (a  school,  I  believe,)  did  not  arrive  so  soon, 
though  you  ultimately  finished  your  course  before  the  others, 
and  joined  the  first  party  that  embarked. 


ACCOUNT    OF    EARLY    MISSIONARY    IMPRESSIONS.         53 

"  Newell  was  the  next  accession  from  my  own  class.  As  to 
Hall,  lie  was  preaching  at  Woodbury,  Connecticut.  I  heard 
that  he  once  thought  favorably  of  missions,  and  wrote  him  a 
short  letter.  He  had  just  received  a  call  to  settle  in  that 
place,  and  was  deliberating  whether  it  was  his  duty  to  accept 
it  or  not,  when  the  letter  was  put  into  his  hand.  He  instantly 
came  to  a  decision,  and  the  next  rising  sun  saw  him  on  tlie 
way  to  Andover.  I  think  that  he  arrived  about  the  time  of 
the  meeting  of  the  G-eneral  Association  of  Ministers  at  Brad- 
ford, in  the  summer  of  1810.  I  do  not,  however,  recollect 
him  present  at  that  meeting,  nor  was  his  name  attached  to 
the  paper  which  we  presented  to  the  association,  and  which 
was  originally  signed  by  Nott,  Newell,  Mills,  Rice,  Richards, 
and  myself,  though,  at  the  suggestion  of  Dr.  Spring,  your 
name  and  Richards's,  which  happened  to  stand  last,  were 
struck  oif,  for  fear  of  alarming  the  association  with  too  large 
a  number. 

"  I  have  ever  thought  that  the  providence  of  God  wa.^  con- 
spicuously manifested  in  bringing  us  all  together,  from  ditFer- 
ent  and  distant  parts.  Some  of  us  had  been  considering  the 
subject  of  missions  for  a  long  time,  and  some  but  recently. 
Some,  and  indeed  the  greater  part,  had  thought  chiefly  of 
domestic  missions,  and  eiforts  among  the  neighboring  tribes  of 
Indians,  w^ithout  contemplating  abandonment  of  country,  and 
devotement  for  life.  The  reading  and  reflection  of  others 
had  led  them  in  a  different  way ;  and  when  we  all  met  atjhe 
same  seminary,  and  came  to  a  mutual  understanding  on  the 
ground  of  foreign  missions  and  missions  for  life,  the  subject 
assumed  in  our  minds  such  an  overwhelming  importance  and 
awful  solemnity,  as  bound  us  to  one  another,  and  to  our  pur- 
pose, more  firmly  than  ever.  How  evident  it  is  that  the  Spirit 
of  God  had  been  operating  in  different  places,  and  upon  dif- 
ferent individuals,  preparing  the  way  for  those  movements 
which  have  since  pervaded  the  American  churches,  and  will 
continue,  to  increase  until  the  kingdoms  of  this  world  become 
the  kingrdoms  of  our  Lord  and  of  his  Anointed !  " 


54  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

Letter  to  his  Pareyits,  dated 

Andover,  June  29,  1810. 
Hon.  Parents  :    The  following  is  a  copy  of  the  letter 
which  I  dii-ected  to   Dr.   Bogue :  — 

Divinity  College,  Andoter,  Mass.,  April,  1810. 

Rev.  Sir:  I  have  considered  the  subject  of  missions  nearly  a 
year,  and  have  found  my  mind  gradually  tending  to  a  deep  convic- 
tion that  it  is  my  duty  personally  to  engage  in  this  service.  Sev- 
eral of  my  brethren  of  this  college  may  finally  unite  with  me  in 
my  present  resolution.  On  their  as  well  as  my  own  behalf,  I 
take  the  liberty  of  addressing  you  this  letter.  My  object  is  to 
obtain  information  on  certain  points  —  Avhether  there  is  at  present 
such  a  call  for  missionaries  in  India,  Tartary,  or  any  part  of  the 
eastern  continent,  as  will  induce  the  directors  of  the  London 
Missionary  Society  to  engage  new  missionaries;  whether  two  or 
three  young,  unmarried  men,  having  received  a  liberal  education, 
and  resided  two  years  in  this  Divinity  School,  wishing  to  serve 
their  Saviour  in  a  heathen  land,  and  indeed  susceptible  of  a  ^^ passion 
for  missions"  —  whether  such  young  men,  arriving  in  England 
next  spring,  with  full  recommendations  from  the  first  Christian 
characters  in  this  country,  may  expect  to  be  received  on  probation 
by  the  directors,  and  placed  at  the  seminary  in  Gosport,  if  that  be 
judged  expedient;  and  whether,  provided  they  give  satisfaction  as  to 
their  fitness  to  undertake  the  work,  all  their  necessary  expenses  after 
arriving  in  England  shall  be  defrayed  from  the  funds  of  the  society, 
which  funds  will,  it  is  hoped,  be  ultimately  reimbursed  by  supplies 
from  the  American  churches. 

We  have  consulted  our  professors  on  this  subject,  particularly 
Dr.  Griffin,  professor  of  oratory.  He  intends  writing  to  several  in 
England,  and  perhaps  to  Dr.  Bogue.  But  his  engagements  being 
such  as  will  prevent  his  writing  at  present,  and  wishing  myself  to 
receive  a  letter  from  you  immediately,  containing  the  desired  infor- 
mation, I  have  written  myself  I  close  with  an  earnest  request  that 
you  will  please  to  transmit  me  an  answer  as  soon  as  possible,  and 
a  prayer  that  your  answer  may  be  fivorable  to  my  most  ardent 
wishes. 

(Signed,)  x4.doniram  Judsoin-,  Jr. 

Rev.  Dr.  Bogue,  Gosport,  England. 


PETITION    TO    THE    GENERAL    ASSOCIATION.  55 

P.  S.  I  shall  deem  it  a  favor  if  you  do  not  confine  your  remarks 
to  the  points  which  I  have  proposed,  but  are  pleased  to  give  such 
general  information  and  advice  as  you  may  think  will  be  useful  to 
me  and  my  brethren.  > 

The  following  is  a  copy  of  the  petition  laid  before  the  Gen- 
eral Association,  this  week  convened  in  Bradford,  composed 
of  delegates  from  several  associations  in  this  state,  and  from 
the  General  Associations  of  New  Hampshire  and  Con- 
necticut. 

The  undersigned,  members  of  the  Divinity  College,  respectfully 
request  the  attention  of  their  reverend  fathers,  convened  in  the 
General  Association  at  Bradford,  to  the  following  statement  and 
inquiries :  — 

They  beg  leave  to  state  that  their  minds  have  been  long  im- 
pressed with  the  duty  and  importance  of  personally  attempting  a 
mission  to  the  heathen ;  that  the  impressions  on  their  minds  have 
induced  a  serious,  and,  as  they  trust,  a  prayerful  consideration  of 
the  subject  in  its  various  attitudes,  particularly  in  relation  to  the 
probable  success  and  the  difficulties  attending  such  an  attempt; 
and  that,  after  examining  all  the  information  which  they  can  obtain, 
they  consider  themselves  as  devoted  to  this  work  for  life,  whenever 
God,  in  his  providence,  shall  open  the  way. 

They  now  offer  the  following  inquiries,  on  which  they  solicit  the 
opinion  and  advice  of  this  association :  Whether,  with  their  pres- 
ent views  and  feelings,  they  ought  to  renounce  the  object  of  mis- 
sions, as  either  visionary  or  impracticable ;  if  not,  whether  they 
ought  to  direct  their  attention  to  the  eastern  or  the  western  world ; 
whether  they  may  expect  patronage  and  support  from  a  missionary 
society  in  this  country,  or  must  commit  themselves  to  the  direction 
of  a  European  society  ;  and  what  preparatory  measures  they  ought 
to  take,  previous  to  actual  engagement. 

The  undersigned,  feeling  their  youth  and  inexperience,  look  up 
to  their  fathers  in  the  church,  and  respectfully  solicit  then  advice, 
direction,  and  prayers. 

(Signed,)  Adoniram  Judsox,  J" a. 

Samuel  Nott,  Jn. 

Samuel  J.  Mills. 

Samuel  Newell. 


56  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

I  wrote  the  above  petition  at  the  instance  of  Dr.  Spring 
and  Mr.  Worcester,  with  whom  I  had  previously  conversed. 
Yesterday  we  went  to  Bradford,  and  met  the  association  in 
the  meeting  house.  After  the  paper  was  read,  we  presented 
ourselves,  and  severally  made  a  statement  of  our  motives  and 
intentions.  A  committee  of  three  was  then  appointed  to  con- 
sider and  report  on  the  subject.  We  were  dismissed,  and 
returned  to  Andover.  I  have  not  yet  received  the  result  of 
the  association.  If  I  receive  it  to-morrow,  and  it  is  not  too 
long,  I  will  insert  it. 

July  11.  I  have  been  waiting  thus  long  for  a  copy  of  the 
result  from  Mr.  Worcester,  the  scribe.  I  understand  that  the 
council  entirely  approved  of  our  movements,  and  appointed  a 
Board  of  Commissioners,  to  take  some  efficient  measures. 
Some  of  these  are  President  Dwight,  Governor  Treadwell, 
General  Huntingdon,  Dr.  Lyman,  Dr.  Spring,  Mr.  Worces- 
ter, and  Mr.  William  Bartlet.  I  have  not  heard  the  precise 
object  of  these  commissioners,  nor  when  they  are  to  meet. 
But  one  general  object  is  to  concentrate  the  efforts  of  the 
several  missionary  societies  to  this  point,  or  to  form  a  new 
foreign  society.  Dr.  Spring  and  Professor  Stuart  have  en- 
gaged in  the  business  '•'■  pedihus  et  unguibiis."  Dr.  G.  has  at 
length  written  to  England.  Mr.  Gordon  Hall,  whom  I  have 
mentioned  to  you,  has  joined  us.  He  had  a  call  to  settle  in 
Woodbury,  with  a  salary  of  six  hundred  dollars.  He  came 
here  to  inquire  into  the  missionary  business  before  he  decided, 
and  has  now  written  back  a  negative  answer.  He  is  one  of 
the  first  of  young  men,  and  promises  fair  to  be  one  of  the  pil- 
lars of  the  mission.  He  is  sensible,  judicious,  learned,  pious  ; 
has  been  preaching  nearly  a  year,  and  quite  united  the  Wood- 
bury people.  There  are  now  four  of  us  who  are  ready  to 
start,  at  three  months'  warning,  for  any  part  of  the  world  — 
Hall,  Newell,  Nott,  and  myself.  There  are  at  least  four  others 
in  the  junior  class  who  are  ready  to  support  the  mission, 
wherever  it  shall  be  established.  We  are  in  a  state  of  sus- 
pense as  to  any  immediate  measures ;  our  eyes  are  directed 
to  an  arrival  from  England.     Our  chief  object  in  laying  the 


GENERAL    ASSOCIATION    AT    BRADFORD.  57 

business  before  the  association,  was  to  excite  a  general  atten- 
tion to  the  subject  in  this  country,  hardly  expecting  that  «uch 
measures  will  be  seasonably  taken  as  shall  preclude  our  solicit- 
ing British  aid. 

My  missionary  essay  appeared  in  the  twelfth  number  of 
the  last  volume  of  the  Panoplist.  That  magazine  will  be 
the  chief  vehicle  of  missionary  intelligence  in  this  country. 
The  first  number  of  the  new  volume  came  out  last  month. 
Mr.  Evarts,  of  Connecticut,  is  the  new  editor  —  a  young 
man  of  distinguished  science,  sound  sentiment,  and  evan- 
gelical piety.  He  has  lately  gone  to  Charlestown,  to  take 
the  sole  charge  of  the  publication.  There  ought  to  be  two 
dozen  of  the  Panoplist  taken  in  Plymouth.  The  treasurer 
of  the  Cent  Society  ought  to  undertake  the  business.  It 
would  be  doing  a  piece  of  general  benevolence.  Is  no  one 
willing  to  do  this  little  for  the  diffusion  of  religious  infor- 
mation  ? 

I  preach  sometimes  on  the  Sabbath  in  neighboring  towns, 
commonly  without  notes.  I  hardly  think  that  I  shall  write 
any  more  sermons.  Why  should  I  spend  my  time  in  attempt- 
ing the  correctnesses  and  elegances  of  English  literature,  who 
expect  to  spend  my  days  in  talking  to  savages  in  vulgar  style  ? 
Why  not  cultivate  extempore  speaking  altogether,  when  that 
will  soon  be  my  only  mode  of  preaching  for  life  ?  Spring  *  is 
warmly  attached  to  the  missionary  project,  and  either  in  Eos- 
ton  or  New  York  will,  I  trust,  be  a  faithful  and  valuable 
friend.     .     .     . 

I  think  sometimes  that  A.  is  all  alone  at  Plymouth.  There 
is  a  Friend,  whose  friendship,  if  she  would  secure  it,  would 
never  leave  her  alone.  Without  his  friendship  she  will  soon 
be  worse  than  alone.  0  the  pleasure  which  a  lively  Christian 
must  enjoy  in  communion  with  God !  It  is  all  one  whether 
he  is  in  a  city  or  a  desert,  among  relations  or  among  savage 
foes,  in  the  heat  of  the  Indies  or  in  the  ice  of  Greenland ; 
his  infinite  Friend  is  always  at  hand.     He  need  not  fear  want, 

*  Rev.  Gardner  Spring,  D.  D.,  now  of  New  York. 


58  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

or  sickness,  or  pain,  for  his  best  Friend  does  all  things  well. 
He  need  not  fear  Death,  though  he  come  in  the  most  shocking 
form ;  for  death  is  only  a  withdrawing  of  the  veil  which  con- 
ceals his  dearest  Friend. 

I  enjoy  good  health.  My  eyes  prevent  studying  in  the  even- 
ing, but  are  much  better  than  they  were.  My  constitution 
gi'ows  firm,  and  appears  to  be  capable  of  enduring  much. 
My  prospects  for  Hfe,  though  in  a  measure  shaded  with  un- 
certainty, hardship,  and  danger,  are  very  animating  and  bright. 
My  prospects  for  another  life,  blessed  be  God,  are  still  bright- 
er. "  This  life's  a  dream,  an  empty  show."  O,  if  we  could 
always  realize  this,  and  live  above  the  world,  —  if  we  could 
tread  on  its  trifling  vanities,  live  far  from  its  perplexing  cares, 
and  keep  an  eye  fixed  on  our  heavenly  inheritance,  —  how 
comfortable  and  useful  we  might  be !  Bless  the  Lord,  O  our 
souls,  that  he  allows  us  to  hope  for  a  better  state. 

A.  JuDSON,  Jr. 

The  communication  to  the  General  Association  of 
Massachusetts,  of  which  a  copy  is  inserted  in  the  pre- 
ceding letter,  was  referred  to  a  committee,  consisting 
of  the  Rev.  Dr.  Spring  and  Rev.  Messrs.  Worcester 
and  Hale. 

On  the  subsequent  day,  the  committee  made  the 
following  report,  which  was  unanimously  adopted  :  — 

The  committee,  to  whom  was  referred  the  request  of  the 
young  gentlemen,  members  of  the  Divinity  College,  for  advice 
relative  to  missions  to  the  heathen,  beg  leave  to  submit  the 
following  report :  — 

The  object  of  missions  to  the  heathen  cannot  but  be  re- 
garded, by  the  friends  of  the  Redeemer,  as  vastly  interesting 
and  important.  It  deserves  the  most  serious  attention  of  all 
who  wish  well  to  the  best  interests  of  mankind,  and  especially 
of  those  who  devote  themselves  to  the  service  of  God,  in  the 
kingdom  of  his  Son,  under  the  impression  of  the  special  direc- 
tion, "  Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every 


GENERAL    ASSOCIATION    AT    BRADFORD.  59 

creature."  The  state  of  their  minds,  modestly  expressed  by 
the  theological  students  who  have  presented  themselves  before 
this  body,  and  the  testimonies  received  respecting  them,  are 
such  as  deeply  to  impress  the  conviction  that  they  ougVit  not 
"  to  renounce  the  object  of  missions,"  but  sacredly  to  cherish 
"  their  present  views  "  in  relation  to  that  object :  and  it  is  sub- 
mitted whether  the  peculiar  and  abiding  impressions,  by  which 
they  are  influenced,  ought  not  to  be  gratefully  recognized  as  a 
divine  intimation  of  something  good  and  great  in  relation  to 
the  propagation  of  the  gospel,  and  calling  for  correspondent 
attention  and  exertions. 

Therefore,  — 

Voted,  That  there  be  instituted,  by  this  General  Association, 
a  Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions,  for  the  pur- 
pose of  devising  ways  and  means,  and  adopting  and  prose- 
cuting measures,  for  promoting  the  spread  of  the  gospel  in 
heathen  lands. 

Voted,  That  the  said  Board  of  Commissioners  consist  of  nine 
members,  all  of  them,  in  the  first  instance,  chosen  by  this 
association ;  and  afterwards,  annually,  five  of  them  by  this 
body,  and  four  of  them  by  the  General  Association  of  Con- 
necticut. Provided,  however,  that,  if  the  General  Associa- 
tion of  Connecticut  do  not  choose  to  unite  in  this  object,  the 
annual  election  of  all  the  commissioners  shall  be  by  this 
General  Association. 

It  is  understood  that  the  Board  of  Commissioners,  here  con- 
templated, will  adopt  their  own  form  of  organization,  and  their 
own  rules  and  regulations. 

Voted,  That,  fervently  commending  them  to  the  grace  of 
God,  we  advise  the  young  gentlemen,  whose  request  is  before 
us,  in  the  way  of  earnest  prayer  and  diligent  attention  to 
suitable  studies  and  means  of  information,  and  putting  them- 
selves under  the  patronage  and  direction  of  the  Board  of 
Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions,  humbly  to  wait  the 
openings  and  guidance  of  Providence  in  respect  to  their  great 
and  excellent  design. 


60  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

Extract  from  a  Letter  of  Rev.   S.  Nott,  Jr.,  of  Wareham,  Mass.,  to 
Rev.  Dr.  Worcester. 

AVaheham,  July  18,  1851. 
Dr.  S.  M.  Worcester. 

Rev.  and  dear  Sir  :  In  turning  to  some  old  papers,  I 
find  the  first  memorandum  of  earnest  consideration  as  to  my 
personal  duty  on  the  subject  of  missions  to  be  October  17, 
1808,  Vvhich,  and  the  other  memoranda  which  follow,  show  the 
growth  of  the  principle  of  my  final  decision  and  action,  viz., 
as  a  question  of  obedience  to  command.  I  was  then  twenty 
years  of  age,  alone,  at  my  father's  house,  spending,  in  solitary 
study  with  my  fiither,  the  year  after  my  graduation.  In 
November,  1809,  I  went  to  Andover. 

]My  first  memorandum  on  the  subject  at  Andover  was 
March  4,  1810,  and  on  March  11th  a  reference  is  made  to 
conversation  with  brethren  Judson  and  Mills  on  that  subject. 
Mr.  Kail  was  not  at  Andover  at  all  until  late  that  spring. 

It  has  never  seemed  to  me  of  any  consequence  to  settle  the 
matter  who  was  or  who  was  not  the  leader  of  the  movement, 
unless  it  were  to  show  that,  strictly  speaking,  no  rnan  was.  .  .  . 
In  my  own  mind,  at  least,  the  starting  point  and  early  prog- 
ress, the  essence  of  the  whole,  was  without  any  knowledge 
of  the  existence  even  of  those  who  were  so  soon  to  be  my 
associates,  and  on  such  a  principle  as  possessed  a  solemn  and 
independent  power.  In  'the  memoranda,  I  find  Mr.  Judson 
mentioned  with  every  confidence  in  his  sincere  and  earnest 
spirit. 

On  Sabbath,  June,  1810,  I  preached  for  Dr.  Spring.  On 
Monday  he  came  with  me  in  the  carriage  to  Andover,  on  his 
way  to  the  General  Association  at  Bradford ;  but  I  have  no 
recollection  except  of  general  conversation  on  our  missionary 
intentions.  On  Tuesday  evening,  by  request  of  Dr.  Griffin, 
myself  and  associates  met  Dr.  Spring,  Dr.  Worcester,  and 
sevei-al  other  ministers,  at  Mr.  Stuart's,  where  our  views  were 
freely  discussed,  and  "  an  opinion  expressed  in  favor  of  our 
object,"  and  a  request  made  to  Dr.  G.  to  write  to  England  im- 
mediately for  information.     "  On  Wednesday  evening,  we  re- 


GENERAL    ASSOCIATION    AT    BRADFORD.  61 

ceived  a  request  from  Dr.  Spring  and  ISIr.  Worcester  to  pre- 
sent a  petition  for  advice  to  the  General  Association."  On 
Thursday  the  petition  was  presented,  and  resulted  as  has  been 
uniformly  stated.  It  might  be  that  if  I  were  to  see  your  his- 
tory of  1809  and  1810,  other  things  might  occur.  The  timely 
bequest  of  Mrs.  Norris  *  as  an  encouragement,  and  yet  the  as 
timely  delay  to  realize  it,  so  that  it  might  open,  and  not  dry 
up,  the  pubhc  fountain,  cannot  have  escaped  your  notice  ;  nor 
the  extremely  limited  supply  February  6,  1812,  and  its 
gracious  enlargement  before  February  18,  in  such  ways  as  to 
interest  two  great  sections  of  the  country. 

*  Mrs.  Norris  died  in  March,  IS  11,  having  left  a  legacy  of  thii-ty 
thousand  dollars  to  the  Board  of  Commissioners. 
VOL.  I.  6 


CHAPTER    III. 

MISSION  TO  ENGLAND.  — CAPTURE,  AND  DETENTION  IN  FKANCE. 
—  INTERVIEWS  WITH  THE  DIRECTORS  OF  THE  LONDON  MIS- 
SIONARY SOCIETY.  — RETURNS  TO  THE  UNITED  STATES.  — AP- 
POINTED A  MISSIONARY  OF  THE  AMERICAN  BOARD  OF  COM- 
MISSIONERS FOR  FOREIGN  MISSIONS.  —  MARRIAGE  AND  OR- 
DINATION. —  RELATIONS  WITH  THE  BOARD. 

1810-1812. 

The  last  chapter  closed  with  an  account  of  the 
meeting  of  the  General  Association  at  Bradford,  and 
the  appointment  of  the  Board  of  Commissioners. 

This  board  held  its  first  meeting,  September  5, 
1810,  at  Farmington,  Connecticut.  Its  organization 
was  there  completed,  and  its  rules  of  proceeding 
adopted.  The  object  of  the  board  was  declared  to 
be  "to  devise,  adopt,  and  prosecute  w^ays  and  means 
for  propagating  the  gospel  among  those  who  are  des- 
titute of  the  knowledge  of  Christianity."  It  was 
voted,  "  that  the  Prudential  Committee  and  Corre- 
sponding Secretary  be  requested  to  obtain  the  best 
information  in  their  power  respecting  the  state  of 
unevangelized  nations  on  the  western  and  eastern  con- 
tinents, and  report  at  the  next  meeting  of  the  board." 

It  was  also  voted,  "  that  the  board  highly  approve 
the  readiness  of  the  young  gentlemen  at  Andover  to 
enter  upon  a  foreign  mission,  and  that  it  is  advisable 
for  them  to  pursue  their  studies  till  farther  information 
relative  to  the  missionary  field  be  obtained,  and  the 
finances  of  the  institution  will  justify  the  appoint- 
ment." 

The  Prudential  Committee  elected  at  this  meeting 
of  the  board  consisted  of  William  Bartlett,  Esq.,  Rev. 

62 


MISSION    TO    ENGLAND.  63 

Dr.  Spring,  and  Rev.  Samuel  Worcester.  Mr.  Worces- 
ter was  also  appointed  Corresponding  Secretary. 

The  board  also  prepared  an  address  to  the  public, 
and  a  form  of  subscription  to  be  printed  and  circu- 
lated among  the  churches. 

It  will  be  seen  from  the  above  proceedings  that,  at 
this  time,  the  board  was  prepared  to  take  no  other 
than  incipient  measures.  They  were  in  doubt  whether 
the  churches  in  this  country  were  willing  to  incur  the 
expenditure  which  missions  to  the  East  demanded. 
Their  eyes  were  naturally  directed  to  the  London 
Missionary  Society,  which  was  already  prosecuting 
this  work  with  signal  success.  It  seemed  desirable  to 
inquire  whether  we  in  this  country  could  not  unite 
with  Christians  in  England,  and  carry  on  missions  in 
concert. 

Impressed  with  these  considerations,  the  Prudential 
Committee  thought  it  desirable  to  send  Mr.  Judson  to 
England,  in  order  to  ascertain  whether  such  an  ar- 
rangement were  practicable.  The  candidates  were 
all  examined  by  the  committee,  so  that  every  proper 
assurance  might  be  given  to  the  directors  of  the  Lon- 
don society ;  and  Mr.  Judson  was  directed  to  sail  for 
London  on  the  1st  of  January,  1811. 

The  letter  of  instructions  addressed  to  him  by  the 
Corresponding  Secretary,  and  the  letter  of  the  secre- 
tary to  the  Rev.  George  Burder,  are  as  follows  :  — 

Letter  of  Instntctio7is  from  the  Prudential  Committee  to  Mr.  Juchon. 

Mr.  Adoniram  Judson  :  As  you  and  your  brethren,  Sam- 
uel Newell,  Samuel  Nott,  and  Gordon  Hall,  have  professed  to 
hold  yourselves  sacredly  devoted  to  the  service  of  Christ,  in 
some  part  or  parts  of  the  heathen  world,  as  in  divine  provi- 
dence a  door  may  be  opened  to  you,  and  as,  with  reference  to 
this  important  object,  you  have  chosen  to  place  yourselves 


64:  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

under  the  superintendence  and  direction  of  the  American 
Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions,  the  Prudential 
Committee  of  the  said  board,  after  obtaining  satisfaction  in  regard 
to  your  qualifications  severally  for  the  contemplated  service, 
and  seriously  consulting  on  the  subject  at  large,  have  judged 
it  advisable  to  have  a  full  and  distinct  understanding  with  the 
directors  of  the  London  Missionary  Society,  in  relation  to  the 
general  object.  For  this  purpose  they  have  determined  on 
sending  you,  dear  sir,  to  England,  under  the  following  instruc- 
tions :  — 

Agreeably  to  arrangements  made,  you  will  sail  for  England 
in  the  ship  Packet,  and  on  your  arrival  at  her  port  of  destina- 
tion, you  will  jDroceed,  as  soon  as  convenient,  to  London,  and 
deliver  your  letter  of  introduction  to  the  Rev.  George  Burder, 
secretary  of  the  London  Missionary  Society.  Mr.  Burder, 
we  doubt  not,  will  receive  you  with  Christian  courtesy,  and 
from  him,  and  his  brethren  of  the  Board  of  Directors,  you 
will  receive  such  notices  as  will  enable  you  to  accomplish  in 
the  best  manner  the  design  now  in  view.  A  principal  object 
of  your  attention  will  be  to  ascertain,  as  distinctly  as  possible, 
whether  any  and  what  arrangements  can  be  made  for  a  concert 
of  measures,  in  relation  to  missions,  between  the  American 
Board  of  Commissioners  and  the  London  Missionary  Society ; 
particularly  whether,  if  circumstances  should  render  it  desi- 
rable, you  and  your  brethren  can  be  supported  in  missionary 
service  for  any  time  by  the  London  funds,  without  committing 
yourselves  wholly  and  finally  to  the  direction  of  the  London 
society ;  or  whether  it  may  be  in  any  case  consistent  for  the 
mission  to  be  supported  partly  by  them  and  partly  by  us  ; 
and  if  so,  under  whose  direction  it  must  be  held.  On  these 
points  you  will  possess  yourself  of  the  views  of  the  direct- 
ors of  the  London  society,  and  receive  their  propositions  for 
our  consideration.  You  will  also,  during  your  stay  in  Eng- 
land, avail  yourself  of  your  opportunities  and  advantages  for 
obtaining  ample  and  correct  information  relating  to  missionary 
fields,  the  requisite  preparations  for  missionary  services,  the 
most  eligible  methods  of  executing  missions,  and  generally  to 


SAILS    FOR    ENGLAND.  65 

whatever  may  be  conducive  to  the  missionary  interest ;  and  the 
most  important  parts  of  such  information  as  you  may  obtain 
you  Avill  commit  to  writing  for  the  use  of  the  American 
Board. 

As  it  is  not  expected  that  you  will  be  at  your  own  charge  in 
this  engagement,  you  will  keep  a  full  account  of  your  expendi- 
tures, for  adjustment  on  your  return. 

AYe  commend  you,  dear  brother,  to  the  providence  and  the 
grace  of  God,  with  fervent  prayers  for  your  safety,  your  suc- 
cess, and  your  happiness.  In  behalf  of  the  Prudential  Com- 
mittee of  the  American  Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign 
Missions, 

Yours,  dear  brother,  with  great  affection, 

Samuel  Worcester. 

From  Rev.  Dr.  Worcester  to  the  Rev.  George  Burder. 

Salem,  January  3,  1811. 
Rev.  and  dear  Sir  :  Enclosed  with  this  you  will  receive  a 
printed  paper,  in  which  you  will  see  in  general  what  has 
recently  been  done  in  this  country  in  relation  to  foreign  mis- 
sions. Four  young  gentlemen,  Messrs.  Adoniram  Judson,  Jr., 
Samuel  Newell,  and  Samuel  Nott,  whose  names  you  will  find 
in  the  paper  referred  to,  and  Mr.  Gordon  Hall,  have  offered 
themselves  as  candidates  for  missions  to  the  heathen,  under  a 
solemn  profession  that  they  have  devoted  themselves  to  God 
for  this  arduous  service,' wherever  in  his  providence  he  may 
see  fit  to  employ  them.  These  beloved  brethren  have  all 
passed  through  a  course  of  coUegial  education,  and  received  a 
collegial  degree.  Since  leaving  the  universities,  they  have 
completed  a  course  of  studies  at  the  theological  institution  in 
this  vicinity,  where  they  have  acquitted  themselves  to  the  high 
satisfaction  of  their  instructors  and  friends.  According  to  our 
established  order,  they  have  been  regularly  licensed  for  the 
Christian  ministry,  and  for  a  considerable  time  they  have  all 
preached  in  our  churches  to  good  acceptance.  Their  moral 
and  Christian  reputation  is  good,  and  their  talents  and  attain- 
ments are  respectable.  Before  the  Prudential  Committee  of 
6* 


66 


MEMOIR    OF   DR.    JUDSON. 


the  American  Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions 
they  have  passed  an  examination  in  form,  relative  to  their 
rehgious  sentiments,  their  rehgious  feehngs,  and  their  views  in 
offering  themselves  for  the  missionary  service ;  and  their 
answers  and  declarations  throughout  were  highly  satisfactory. 
They  profess  their  full  belief  in  the  articles  of  faith  wliich  arc 
established  in  the  theological  institution,  a  copy  of  which  you 
will  receive ;  and  the  Prudential  Committee  have  great  confi- 
dence that  they  have  received  the  truth  in  love ;  that  they  are 
persons  of  sincere  and  ardent  piety ;  that  they  have  offered 
themselves  for  the  missionary  service  from  the  best  motives ; 
and,  in  a  word,  that  they  have  qualifications  for  distinguished 
usefulness.  The  manner  in  which  these  young  men  have 
come  forward,  together  with  a  similar  disj)osition  manifested 
by  several  others,  has  made,  extensively,  a  deep  impression, 
and  excited  a  lively  interest.  It  is  gratefully  hailed  as  an 
indication  that  the  Lord  is  about  to  do  something  by  his  friends 
in  this  country,  in  furtherance  of  the  great  design  in  which 
their  brethren  in  England  have  been  so  nobly  and  so  exem- 
plarily  engaged. 

On  our  own  continent,  indeed,  there  are  many  millions  of 
men  "  sitting  in  darkness  and  in  the  region  and  shadow  of 
deatli,"  and  our  brethren  in  England  may  wonder  that,  while 
such  is  the  fact,  we  should  turn  our  views  to  any  other  part  of 
the  world.  But  the  attempts  which  have  been  made  to  evan- 
gelize the  aboriginal  tribes  of  the  North  American  wilderness 
have  been  attended  with  so  many  discouragements,  and  South 
America  is  yet  in  so  unpromising  a  state,  that  the  opinion  very 
generally  prevalent  is,  that  for  the  pagans  on  this  continent  but 
very  little  can  immediately  be  done.  Hence,  though  the  hope 
is  entertained,  that  the  time  is  coming  when  the  benevolent 
exertions  of  the  Redeemer's  friends  here,  for  spreading  the 
knowledge  of  his  name,  may  be  successfully  employed  nearer 
home,  yet  at  present  the  eastern  world  is  thought  to  offer  a 
more  promising  field. 

As  yet,  however,  we  have  no  adequate  funds  estabhshed  for 
the  support  of  distant  and  expensive  missions.     What  may  be 


SAILS    FOR    ENGLAND.  67 

done  in  the  course  of  a  short  time  we  know  not.  It  is  the 
desire  and  tlie  prayer  of  many,  that  American  missionaries 
may  have  American  support ;  and  we  are  not  without  hope 
that  He  to  whom  the  silver  and  the  gold  belong  will  open  the 
hearts  of  the  rich  among  us  for  this  interesting  purpose. 
Should  this  hope  be  realized,  and  missionary  funds  to  any  con- 
siderable amount  bo  raised,  they  will  probably  be  placed  under 
such  an  arrangement  as  to  be  employed  either  in  the  East,  or 
on  our  own  continent,  as  divine  Providence  may  direct. 

Under  existing  circumstances,  the  American  Board  are  de- 
sirous to  open  a  communication  with  the  London  jMissionary 
Society,  whose  knowledge  of  missionary  concerns  is  ample, 
and  the  praise  of  whose  liberality  and  persevering  exertions 
is  in  all  parts  of  the  world.  For  this  purpose,  Mr.  Judson, 
one  of  the  missionary  brethren,  of  whom  you  have  already 
some  knowledge,  and  who  has  been  favored  with  a  letter  from 
you,  has  been  appointed  to  go  to  London.  To  your  courtesy 
and  Christian  attention  he  is  most  affectionately  and  respect- 
fully recommended ;  and  for  the  particular  objects  for  which 
he  is  sent,  I  beg  leave  to  refer  you  to  his  letter  of  instructions. 

Besides  the  otTicial  testimonial  contained  in  this  letter,  Mr. 
Judson  will  carry  with  him  others,  and  particularly  one  from 
the  faculty  of  the  theological  institution  at  Andover  —  an 
institution  which,  though  young,  is  fast  rising  in  importance, 
and  in  which,  both  on  account  of  the  principles  on  which  it  is 
founded,  and  the  ability  and  piety  with  which  it  is  conducted, 
great  confidence  is  reposed.  Should  these  testimonials  be  sat- 
isfactory, and  should  it  in  the  event  be  thought  best  that  our 
young  brethren  should  be  resigned  to  the  f)atronage  and  direc- 
tion of  your  society,  your  venerable  and  highly  respected 
Board  of  Directors  will  judge,  whether,  after  the  course  of 
studies  through  which  they  have  passed,  it  will  be  exi3edient 
for  them  to  spend  any  time  at  your  school  at  Gosport,  and 
whether,  for  any  purpose,  it  will  be  necessary  for  the  other 
three  to  go  to  England,  before  they  shall  be  actually  engaged 
in  your  service. 

It  may  not  be  improper  to  state,  that  some  of  the  young 


68  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

men  propose  to  take  wives  with  them  to  the  missionary  field. 
If  this  meet  the  approbation  of  your  board,  as  we  are  not  un- 
apprised of  the  laudable  care  which  you  take  in  regard  to  the 
character  not  only  of  your  missionaries  themselves,  but  also 
of  their  wives,  we  shall  certainly  consider  it  important  that 
similar  care  be  taken  here. 

With  gi-eat  personal  consideration,  and  in  behalf  of  the 
American  Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions,  I 
tender  to  you,  dear  sir,  and  through  you  to  your  brethren  of 
the  Board  of  Directors,  the  most  affectionate  and  respectful 
salutations. 

Samuel  ^YoRC ester.  Cor.  Sec. 

Eev.  George  Burder,  Sec.  Loiidou  Miss.  Soc. 

The  following  reminiscences  of  the  voyage  to 
England  are  derived  from  conversations  of  Dr.  Jud- 
son  :  — 

There  were  on  the  ship  Packet  two  Spanish  merchants ; 
and  these,  I  believe,  were  the  only  passengers  beside  Mr.  Judson. 
When  they  were  captured  by  LTnvincible  Napoleon,  these 
tAvo  gentlemen,  being  able  to  speak  French,  and  most  likely  to 
furnish  a  bribe,  were  treated  very  civilly.  Mr.  Judson,  however, 
was  very  young,  with  nothing  distinctive  in  his  outward  ap- 
pearance, and  was,  moreover,  speechless,  friendless,  and  com- 
paratively moneyless.  He  was,  without  question  or  remon- 
strance, immediately  placed  in  the  hold,  with  the  common 
sailors.  This  was  the  first  hardship  he  had  ever  known,  and 
it  affected  him  accordingly.  He  shrank  from  the  associa- 
tions of  the  place,  and  the  confined  air  seemed  unendurable. 
Soon  the  weather  roughened,  and  he,  together  with  several  of 
his  more  hardy  companions,  became  excessively  seasick.  The 
doctor  visited  him  every  day,  but  he  could  not  communicate 
with  him,  and  the  visit  was  nearly  useless.  Sick,  sorrowful, 
and  discouraged,  his  thoughts  went  back  to  his  dear  old  Plym- 
outh home,  then  to  Bradford,  and  finally  the  Boston  church 
—  "  the  bigge?^  church  in  Boston  ; "  and  he  became  alarmed 


REMINISCENCES    OF    THE    VOYAGE.  69 

at  the  strange  feeling  tliat  crept  over  him.  It  was  the  first 
moment  of  misgiving  he  hud  known.  As  soon  as  he  be- 
came aware  of  the  feeling,  he  commenced  praying  against  it, 
as  a  temptation  of  the  adversary.  It  seemed  to  him  that  God 
had  permitted  this  capture,  and  all  his  trouble,  as  a  trial  of  his 
faith  ;  and  he  resolved,  in  the  strength  of  God,  to  bear  it,  as 
he  might  be  called  upon  to  bear  similar  trials  hereafter.  As 
soon  as  he  had  come  to  this  resolution,  he  fumbled  about  in 
the  gray  twihght  of  his  prison,  till  he  succeeded  in  finding 
his  Hebrew  Bible.  The  light  was  very  faint,  but  still  he  man- 
aged to  see  for  a  few  moments  at  a  time,  and  amused  himself 
with  translating  mentally  from  the  Hebrew  to  the  Latin  —  a 
work  which  employed  his  thoughts,  and  saved  his. eyes.  'One 
day  the  doctor,  observing  the  Bible  on  the  pillow,  took  it  up, 
stepped  towards  the  gangway,  and  examined  it ;  then  returned, 
and  addressed  his  patient  in  Latin.  Through  the  medium  of 
this  language,  Mr.  Judson  managed  to  explain  who  he  was ;  and 
he  was  consequently  admitted  to  a  berth  in  the  upper  cabin, 
and  a  seat  with  his  fellow-passengers,  the  Spaniards,  at  the 
captain's  table. 

His  second  day  on  deck  was  a  somewhat  exciting  one.  A 
sail  was  reported  from  the  mast  head  ;  and  while  the  stranger 
was  yet  a  mere  speck  to  the  naked  eye,  many  glasses  were 
levelled  curiously  at  her,  and  a  general  feeling  of  anxiety 
seemed  to  prevail  among  the  officers.  Of  course,  Mr.  Judson 
was  all  excitement ;  for  although  he  was  now  in  comfortable  cir- 
cumstances, he  dreaded  the  effect  of  this  detention  on  his  mis- 
sion to  England.  Finally,  the  stranger  loomed  up  against  the 
sky,  a  beautiful  brig  under  a  full  press  of  canvas.  As  they 
watched  her,  some  anxiously  and  some  admiringly,  suddenly 
her  fine  proportions  became  blended  in  a  dark  mass  ;  and  it 
was  evident  to  the  most  inexperienced  landsman  that  she  had 
changed  her  course.  The  two  Spaniards  interchanged  signifi- 
cant glances.  Mr.  Judson  felt  very  much  like  shouting  for  joy, 
but  he  suppressed  the  inclination ;  and  the  next  moment  the 
order  came  for  the  decks  to  be  cleared,  and  he,  with  his  com- 
panions, was  sent  below.     The  Spaniards  informed  him  that 


70  MEMOIR    OF   DR.   JUDSON. 

they  were  pursued  by  a  vessel  mucli  larger  tlian  tlieir  own ; 
that  the  privateer  had  little  to  hope  in  an  engagement,  but  she 
was  the  swifter  sailer  of  the  two,  and  the  approacliing  dark- 
ness was  in  her  favor.  Mr.  Judson  passed  a  sleepless  night,  lis- 
tening each  moment  for  unusual  sounds  ;  but  the  next  morning, 
when  he  carefully  swept  the  horizon  with  the  captain's  glas.>;, 
not  a  mote  was  visible. 

The  privateer  touched  at  Le  Passage,  in  Spain,  and  there 
permitted  the  two  Spaniards  to  go  on  shore.  From  thence  the 
prisoners  were  conveyed  to  Bayonnc,  in  France ;  and  Mr.  Judson 
again,  to  his  surprise  and  indignation,  found  himself  marched 
through  the  streets  in  company  with  the  crew  of  the  Packet. 
He  had  as  yet  acquired  only  a  few  words  of  French,  and  of 
these  he  made  as  much  use  as  possible,  to  the  infinite  amuse- 
ment of  the  passers  by.  Finally  it  occurred  to  him  that  he 
was  much  more  likely  to  meet  some  person,  either  a  native  or 
a  foreigner,  who  understood  English,  than  to  make  his  broken 
French  intelligible.  Accordingly  he  commenced  declaiming 
in  the  most  violent  manner  possible  against  oppression  in  gen- 
eral, and  this  one  act  in  particular.  The  guards  threatened 
him  by  gestures,  but  did  not  proceed  to  violence  ;  and  of  the 
passers  by,  some  regarded  him  a  moment  carelessly,  others 
showed  a  little  interest  or  curiosity,  while  many  laughed  out- 
right at  his  seemingly  senseless  clamors.  Finally  a  stranger 
accosted  him  in  English,  advising  him  to  lower  his  voice. 
"  With  the  greatest  pleasure  possible,"  he  answered,  "  if  I 
have  at  last  succeeded  in  making  myself  heard.  I  was  only 
clamoring  for  a  listener."  "  You  might  have  got  one  you 
would  have  been  glad  to  dismiss,  if  you  had  continued  much 
longer,"  was  the  reply.  In  a  few  hurried  words  Judson 
explained  his  situation,  and,  in  words  as  few,  learned  that  the 
gentleman  was  an  American  from  Philadelphia,  and  received 
his  promise  of  assistance.  "  But  you  had  better  go  on  your 
way  quietly  now,"  added  his  new  friend.  "  O,  I  will  be  a 
perfect  lamb,  since  I  have  gained  my  object." 

The  j^rison  was  a  gloomy-looking,  massive  structure,  and 
the   apartment  into  which  they  were  conveyed  was   under 


DETENTION   IN   FRANCE.  71 

ground,  dark  and  dismal.  In  the  centre  was  a  sort  of  column, 
on  which  burned  a  solitary  lamp,  though  without  it  was  still 
broad  day.  Around  the  walls  a  quantity  of  straw  had  been 
spread,  on  which  his  companions  soon  made  themselves  at 
home ;  but  Mr.  Judson  could  not  divest  himself  of  the  idea  that 
the  straw  was  probably  not  fresh,  and  busied  his  imagination 
with  images  of  those  who  had  last  occupied  it.  The  weather 
had  seemed  almost  oppressively  hot  above  ground ;  but  now  he 
shivered  with  the  chilling  dampness  of  the  place,  while  the 
confined  air  and  mouldy  smell  rendered  him  sick  and  giddy. 
He  paced  up  and  down  the  cell,  he  could  not  tell  how  long, 
but  it  seemed  many  hours,  wondering  if  his  new  friend  would 
really  come ;  and  again,  if  he  did  not,  whether  he  could  keep 
upon  his  feet  all  night ;  and  in  case  of  failure,  which  part  of 
the  straw  he  should  select  as  the  least  loathsome.  And  then 
his  thoughts  would  wander  off  again  to  Plymouth,  and  to 
Bradford,  and  to  the  "  biggest  church  in  Boston,"  but  not  with 
the  feeling  that  he  had  before.  On  the  contrary,  he  wondered 
that  he  ever  could  have  been  discouraged.  He  knew  that  at 
most  his  imprisonment  could  not  last  long.  If  he  only  had  a 
chair,  or  the  meanest  stool,  that  was  all  he  would  ask.  But  he 
could  not  hope  to  walk  or  stand  long. 

While  leaning  against  the  column  for  a  moment's  rest,  the 
door  of  the  cell  opened,  and  he  instantly  recognized  the 
American  he  had  seen  in  the  street.  He  suppressed  a  cry  of 
joy,  and  seeing  that  the  stranger  did  not  look  at  him,  though 
he  stood  close  by  the  lamp,  tried  himself  to  affect  indifference. 
The  American,  making  some  remark  in  French,  took  up  the 
lamp,  and  then  adding,  (or  perhaps  translating,)  in  English, 
"  Let  me  see  if  I  know  any  of  these  poor  fellows,"  passed 
around  the  room,  examining  them  carelessly.  "  No ;  no  friend 
of  mine,"  said  he,  replacing  the  lamp,  and  swinging  his  great 
military  cloak  around  Mr.  Judson,  whose  slight  figure  was  almost 
lost  in  its  ample  folds.  Comprehending  the  plan,  Mr.  Judson 
drew  himself  into  as  small  a  compass  as  possible,  thinking  that 
he  would  make  the  best  of  the  affair,  though  having  little  confi- 
dence in  the  clumsy  artifice.     His  protector,  too,  seemed  to 


72  MEMOIR    OF   DR.   JUDSON. 

have  his  doubts,  for,  as  he  passed  out,  he  slid  some  money  into 
the  jailer's  hand,  and  again,  at  the  gate,  made  another  dis- 
bursement, and  as  soon  as  they  were  outside,  released  his 
protege,  with  the  expressive  words,  "  Now  run  !  "  Mr.  Judson 
quite  forgot  his  fatigue  from  walking  in  the  cell,  as  he  fleetlj' 
followed  his  tall  conductor  through  the  streets  to  the  wharf, 
where  he  was  placed  on  board  an  American  merchantman  for 
the  night.  The  next  evening  his  friend  returned,  informing 
him  that  his  place  of  refuge  had  been  only  temporarily  chosen, 
and  as  the  papers  necessary  to  his  release  could  not  be  pro- 
cured immediately,  he  would  be  much  safer  in  the  attic  of  a 
ship  builder,  who  had  kindly  offered  this  place  of  concealment. 
Accordingly  he  removed  to  the  attic,  from  which,  after  a  few 
days,  he  was  released  on  parole. 

Mr.  Judson  passed  about  six  weeks  in  Bayonne,  boarding 
with  an  American  lady  who  had  spent  most  of  her  life  in  France. 
He  told  his  landlady  that  he  was  a  clergyman,  and  frequently 
held  long  religious  conversations  with  her ;  but  he  did  not 
permit  his  character  to  be  known  generally  in  the  house,  as  he 
thought  it  would  interfere  with  a  plan  he  had  of  learning  as 
much  as  possible  of  the  real  state  of  French  society.  He 
attended  various  places  of  amusement  with  his  fellow-boarders, 
pleading  his  ignorance  of  the  language  and  customs  of  the 
country  as  an  excuse  for  acting  the  spectator  merely ;  and  in 
general  giving  such  evasive  replies  as  enabled  him  to  act  his 
part  without  attracting  undue  attention.  It  was  not  long, 
however,  before  his  companions  became  pretty  well  aware  that 
indifference  formed  no  part  of  his  real  character.  His  shrewd- 
ness was  at  variance  with  his  implied  ignorance  of  the  world, 
and  his  simplicity  sometimes  wore  a  solemn  impressiveness, 
from  the  influence  of  which  it  was  impossible  to  escape.  The 
last  place  of  amusement  he  visited  was  a  masked  ball ;  and 
here  his  strong  feelings  quite  overcame  his  caution,  and  he 
burst  forth  in  his  real  character.  He  declared  to  his  some- 
what startled  companions  that  he  did  not  believe  the  infernal 
regions  could  furnish  more  complete  specimens  of  depravity 
than  he  there  beheld.     He   spoke  in  English,  and  at  first 


DETENTION    IN    FRANCE.  73 

addressed  himself  to  the  two  or  three  standing  near  him,  who 
understood  the  kxngiiage  ;  but  his  earnestness  of  manner  and 
^varmth  of  expression  soon  drew  around  him  a  kirge  circle, 
who  listened  curiously  and  with  apparent  respect.  He  spoke 
scornfully  of  the  proud  professions  of  the  (so  called)  philosophy 
of  the  age,  and  pointed  to  the  fearful  exhibitions  of  that  mo- 
ment as  illustrative  of  its  effectiveness.  He  rapidly  enumer- 
ated many  of  the  evils  which  infidelity  had  brought  upon 
France  and  upon  the  world,  and  then  showed  the  only  Avay 
of  escape  from  those  evils  —  the  despised,  but  truly  ennobling 
religion  of  Jesus  Christ.  Finally  he  sketched  the  character 
of  man  as  it  might  have  been  in  its  original  purity  and 
nobleness,  and  then  the  wreck  of  soul  and  body  to  be  ascribed 
to  sin,  and  wound  up  all  by  a  personal  appeal  to  such  as 
had  not  become  too  debased  to  think  and  feel.  He  had 
warmed  as  he  proceeded  with  his  subject,  noting  with  pain  and 
surprise  the  great  number  of  those  who  seemed  to  understand 
the  English  language,  and  drawing  from  it  an  inference  by  no 
means  favorable  to  his  travelled  countrymen.  Most  of  the 
maskers  evidently  regarded  the  exhibition  as  part  of  the 
evening's  entertainment ;  but  those  who  understood  his  re- 
marks seemed  confounded  by  the  boldness,  and  perhaps  unex- 
pectedness, of  the  attack,  and  when  he  had  finished,  stood 
aside,  and  allowed  him  to  pass  from  the  place  without  a  word. 
This  incident,  I  have  been  told,  was  reported  by  some  person 
present  on  the  occasion,  and  published  in  a  Boston  newspaper. 

Mr.  Judson,  I  do  not  recollect  by  what  means,  was  introduced 
to  some  of  the  officers  of  Napoleon's  suite,  and  travelled  through 
the  country  in  one  of  the  emperor's  carriages.  At  Paris,  he 
spent  most  of  his  time  in  the  society  of  these  officers,  and 
persons  whom  they  introduced,  and,  in  general,  pursued  the 
same  course  as  at  Bayonne.  In  view  of  the  opportunity  thus 
affiDrded  for  observation,  and  the  store  of  practical  knowledge 
really  gathered,  he  always  regarded  his  detention  in  France 
as  a  very  important,  and,  indeed,  necessary  part  of  his  prepa- 
ration for  the  duties  which  afterwards  devolved  upon  him. 

In  England  he  was  received  in  a  manner  peculiai'ly  flattering, 

VOL.   I.  7 


74  MEMOIR    OF   DR.   JUDSON. 

and  I  think  liis  appearance  there  must  have  created  a 
very  favorable  impression.  He  was  at  this  time  small  and 
exceedingly  delicate  in  figure,  with  a  round,  rosy  face,  which 
gave  him  the  appearance  of  extreme  youthfulness.  His  hair 
and  eyes  were  of  a  dark  shade  of  brown,  in  his  French  pass- 
port described  as  "chestnut."  His  voice,  however,  was  far 
from  what  would  be  expected  of  such  a  person,  and  usually 
took  the  listeners  by  surprise.  An  instance  of  this  occurred 
in  London.  He  sat  in  the  pulpit  with  a  clergyman  somewhat 
distinguished  for  his  eccentricity,  and  at  the  close  of  the  ser- 
mon was  requested  to  read  a  hymn.  When  he  had  finished, 
the  clergyman  arose,  and  introduced  his  young  brother  to  the 
congregation  as  a  person  who  purposed  devoting  himself  to 
the  conversion  of  the  heathen,  adding,  "  And  if  his  faith  is 
proportioned  to  his  voice,  he  will  drive  the  devil  from  all 
India." 

Mr.  Judson  crossed  the  channel,  and  arrived  at 
Dartmouth  on  the  3d  of  May,  1811.  On  the  6th  of 
the  same  month  he  went  up  to  London,  and  pre- 
sented his  credentials  to  the  directors  of  the  London 
Missionary  Society.  They  received  him  with  every 
mark  of  Christian  kindness,  and,  as  it  will  be  seen, 
appointed  him  and  his  brethren  missionaries  to  the 
heathen  in  their  service.  The  following  letters  con- 
tain all  the  memorials  which  I  have  found  relating  to 
these  events  :  — 

Extracts  from  the  Mimites  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  tJie  JLondon 
Missionary  Society. 

Meeting  of  the  Directors,  June  25,  1810. 
Read  a  letter  from  Mr.  Adoniram  Judson,  a  student  in  the 
Divinity  College  at  Andover,  in  America,  dated  April  23, 
1810,  saying  that  he  wished  to  become  a  missionary  to  the 
heathen;  requesting  to  be  informed  whether  two  or  three 
young  unmarried  men,  having  received  a  liberal  education, 


PROCEEDINGS    OF    LONDON    MISSIONARY    SOCIETY.       75 

desirous  of  becoming  missionaries,  would  be  accepted  on  their 
arrival  in  England  next  spring,  on  probation,  to  be  sent  to 
Gosport,  with  a  view  to  a  mission  to  India  or  Tartary. 

Resolved,  That  the  secretary  be  desired  to  write  immedi- 
ately, requesting  that  testimonials  be  forwarded  from  Andover, 
as  soon  as  possible,  giving  a  full  account  of  the  religious  views, 
&c.,  of  these  young  men. 

Meeting,  May  20,  1811. 

Read  a  letter,  dated  January  3, 1811,  from  Rev.  S.  Worces- 
ter, of  Salem,  secretary  to  the  Board  of  Commissioners  for 
Foreign  Missions,  requesting  the  cooperation  of  this  society  in 
sending  out  four  young  men  as  missionaries  to  the  heathen. 

Read  also  a  letter  from  Rev.  Messrs.  Griffin,  Woods,  and 
Stuart,  professors  of  Andover  College,  recommending  Messrs. 
A.  Judson,  S.  Newell,  S.  Nott,  and  G.  Hall,  as  having  re- 
ceived a  liberal  education,  and  of  good  moral  and  religious 
characters,  suitable  for  this  purpose. 

Read  a  letter  of  instructions  to  Mr.  Judson,  also  a  recom- 
mendatory letter  from  Rev.  Mr.  Codman,  of  Dorchester,  dated 
December  19,  1810. 

Resolved,  That  a  committee  be  appointed,  to  consist  of 
Messrs.  Alers,  Cowie,  and  Roberts,  with  the  secretary,  to 
consider  what  measures  may  be  suitable  to  be  adopted  respect- 
ing the  proposition  made  by  the  American  brethren  to  this 
society,  and  report. 

Meeting,  May  27,  1811. 

The  committee  to  whom  the  proposals  from  the  Commis- 
sioners for  Foreign  Missions,  by  Mr.  Judson,  were  referred, 
reported. 

The  committee  have  to  report,  that  it  is  the  particular  wish, 
as  well  of  the  commissioners  as  of  the  candidates  themselves, 
that  they  should  be  employed  in  forming  a  new  station  for 
missionary  exertions,  rather  than  be  separated  from  each 
other  among  the  several  stations  already  occupied  by  the  so- 
ciety. This  appears  to  be  the  chief,  if  not  the  only  stipula- 
tion connected  with  the  offer  of  service  made  by  Mr.  Judson, 


76  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

on  his  own  part  and  that  of  his  brethren.  The  precise  station 
is  stated  by  Mr.  Judson  to  be  entirely  at  the  disposal  of  the 
Missionary  Society,  if  he  and  his  brethren  can  be  accommo- 
dated by  the  Missionary  Society  in  the  respect  just  referred  to. 

That  Mr.  Judson  wishes  most  explicitly  to  state,  whatever 
may  be  the  expressions  of  the  instructions  he  has  received, 
that  they  do  not  intend  to  require  any  engagement  from  the 
Missionary  Society  contrary  to  the  established  usage  in  the 
formation  of  its  stations  ;  and  that  he  and  his  brethren  are 
willing  to  consider  themselves  the  missionaries  of  this  society, 
in  all  respects  the  same  as  the  other  missionaries  engaged  by 
them. 

That  Mr.  Judson  is  able  to  afford  very  little  encouragement 
as  to  pecuniary  assistance.  The  zeal  for  missionary  efforts 
seems  to  have  been  excited  chiefly,  if  not  entirely,  among 
those  who  have  only  their  personal  services  to  offer.  The 
encouragement  which  this  disposition  has  hitherto  met  with 
from  those  who  are  able  to  cherish  such  endeavors  by  pecuni- 
ary contributions  is  at  present  so  limited,  that  no  assurances 
can  be  given  to  the  society  of  any  efficient  aid  in  that  respect. 

The  committee  think  it  right  to  state  to  the  directors,  that 
they  have  received  very  great  satisfaction  from  the  statements 
given  by  the  candidates  themselves  of  their  religious  experi- 
ence and  missionary  views,  and  from  the  strong  and  unequivo- 
cal testimonies  to  their  religious  and  moral  character  and 
ministerial  qualifications,  which  have  been  transmitted  by 
judicious  and  experienced  ministers,  who  are  personally  ac- 
quainted with  them. 

The  committee  have  peculiar  pleasure  in  stating  likewise, 
upon  the  information  of  Mr.  Judson,  that  a  lively  zeal  for  the 
propagation  of  the  blessed  gospel  among  the  heathen  has  man- 
ifested itself  among  the  young  students  in  the  Divinity  Col- 
lege of  which  he  is  a  member,  which  is  cherished  by  meetings 
of  prayer  and  conversation  relative  to  that  object,  and  that  in 
the  event  of  the  present  offer  from  himself  and  his  brethren 
receiving  the  countenance  of  the  society,  he  has  the  fullest  as- 
surance that  others  of  his  junior  brethren,  now  prosecuting 


RETURNS    TO    THE    UNITED    STATES.  77 

their  divinity  studies,  will,  when  prepared,  be  found  ready  to 
devote  their  lives  and  labors  in  the  same  line  of  active  service. 

The  committee  have,  therefore,  on  the  preceding  grounds, 
great  satisfaction  in  recommending  to  their  brethren,  the  direct- 
ors of  the  Missionary  Society,  that  the  proposals  of  Mr.  Jud- 
son  be  received  with  the  most  friendly  attention,  and  that  the 
services  of  himself  and  brethren  be  accepted  on  such  terms 
as  the  directors  shall,  on  due  consideration,  judge  most  expe- 
dient. 

Resolved^  That  the  report  of  the  committee  be  accepted. 

Resolved,  That  Messrs.  Adoniram  Judson,  Samuel  Newell, 
Samuel  Nott,  and  Gordon  Hall  be  accepted  as  missionaries, 
to  be  employed  by  this  society  in  India. 

Resolved,  That  Mr.  Alers  be  requested  to  write  a.  letter  of 
instructions  for  Mr.  Judson  and  his  brethren. 

Mr.  Judson  subsequently  visited  the  missionary 
seminary  at  Gosport,  then  under  the  care  of  the  ven- 
erable Dr.  Bogue,  to  confer  with  that  pious  and  de- 
voted friend  of  missions.  There  was  nothing  to 
detain  him  in  England  after  he  had  accomplished  his 
missionary  purposes  ;  and  within  about  six  weeks 
after  his  arrival,  on  the  18th  of  June,  1811,  he  em- 
barked at  Gravesend  in  the  ship  Augustus,  bound  to 
New  York.  He  arrived  in  New  York  on  the  17th  of 
August  following. 

The  Board  of  Commissioners  held  their  second 
meeting  at  Worcester,  Massachusetts,  September  18, 
1811.  At  this  meeting  Mr.  Judson  and  Mr.  Nott 
were  present. 

The  Prudential  Committee,  in  their  annual  report, 
after  inserting  the  letter  of  instructions  to  Mr.  Judson, 
their  letter  to  Mr.  Burder,  and  his  answer,  proceed  to 
remark  as  follows :  "  The  board  will  perceive  that, 
though  the  London  directors  gave  the  most  favorable 


78  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

reception  to  our  messenger,  and  showed  the  most 
Christian  zeal  towards  the  general  object,  yet  in  this 
letter  of  the  Rev.  Mr.  Barder  nothing  is  said  in  direct 
reference  to  the  points  on  which  Mr.  Jadson  was 
instructed  to  confer  with  the  directors,  relating  to  a 
cooperation  in  the  support  and  conduct  of  missions. 
Though  the  committee  have  not  received  any  written 
communication  from  Mr.  Judson,  yet  they  have  learned 
from  him  in  general  that  the  London  directors  are  of, 
opinion  that  a  joint  conduct  of  missions  will  not  be 
practicable,  and  that,  although  they  are  ready  to  receive 
our  young  brethren  under  their  patronage,  and  would 
gladly  have  aid  from  us  in  respect  to  their  support, 
yet  they  do  not  think  it  consistent  to  admit  this  board 
to  a  participation  with  them  in  the  direction  of  the 
mission." 

The  report  then  proceeds  to  state  that  one  of  two 
courses  is  plainly  before  the  board  —  either  to  surren- 
der these  four  young  brethren  to  the  London  society, 
which  had  already  appointed  them,  or  undertake  to 
support  therfi  themselves.  They  recommend  the  latter 
course,  give  their  reasons  for  this  recommendation^ 
and  suggest  the  manner  in  which  funds  may  be  raised. 
They  direct  the  attention  of  the  board  to  the  various 
openings  for  missionary  labor,  and  mention  Burmah 
as  a  specially  inviting  field.  This  report  is  accom- 
panied by  the  following  vote  r  — 

"  Voted,  That  this  board  will  retain  under  their  care 
the  young  gentlemen  who  last  year  devoted  them- 
selves to  the  service  of  God  for  life,  as  missionaries  in 
foreign  parts." 

This  report  of  the  Prudential  Committee  was  ac- 
cepted. 

On  the  following  day,   it  was  voted,   "  That  this 


APPOINTED    A    MISSIONAKY.  79' 

board  do  not  advise  Messrs.  Adoniram  Judson,  Jr., 
and  Samuel  Nott,  Jr.,  to  place  themselves  at  present 
under  the  direction  of  the  London  Missionary  Society, 
but  to  wait  the  further  intimations  of  Providence  rel- 
ative to  our  means  of  furnishing  them  with  the  requi- 
site support  in  the  proposed  foreign  mission." 

"  Messrs.  Adoniram  Judson,  Jr.,  Samuel  Nott,  Jr., 
Samuel  Newell,  and  Gordon  Hall  were  appointed 
missionaries  to  labor  under  the  direction  of  this  board 
in  Asia,  either  in  the  Burman  empire,  or  in  Surat, 
or  in  Prince  of  Wales  Island,  or  elsewhere,  as,  in  the 
view  of  the  Prudential  Committee,  Providence  shall 
open  the  most  favorable  door." 

By  a  subsequent  vote,  the  salary  of  a  married  and 
of  an  unmarried  missionary  was  fixed,  together  with 
the  sum  that  should  be  allowed  for  the  outfit  of  each  ; 
and  an  appropriation  of  three  hundred  dollars  was 
made  for  the  purchase  of  books  for  missionaries. 

The  way  was  now  open  for  these  pioneers  of  Amer- 
ican missions  to  proceed  on  their  errand  of  mercy. 
At  this  time,  however,  intercourse  with  the  East 
Indies  was  infrequent,  and  passages  were  not  easily 
secured.  The  company  were  obliged  to  delay  their 
departure  until  the  following  February.  On  the  3d 
of  February,  Mr.  Judson  took  a  final  leave  of  his 
parents  at  Plymouth.  On  the  5th,  he  was  married  to 
Ann  Hasseltine.  On  the  6th,  he  was  ordained  at 
Salem,  in  company  with  Messrs.  Nott,  Newell,  Hall, 
and  Rice.  They  expected  to  sail  immediately,  but 
their  departure  was  delayed  until  the  18th  and  19th, 
a  part  of  the  company  embarking  at  Salem,  and  the 
remainder  at  Philadelphia.  The  account  of  these 
events  which  follows  is  from  the  Panoplist  for  Febru- 
ary, 1812. 


80  MEMOIR    OF    DK.    JUDSON. 

Ordainecl,  on  Thursday,  the  6th  instant,  at  the  Tabernacle 
in  Salem,  the  Rev.  Messrs.  Samuel  Newell,  Adoniram  Jud- 
son,  Samuel  Nott,  Gordon  Hall,  and  Luther  Rice,  to  the  work 
of  the  gospel  ministry,  as  missionaries  to  the  heathen  in  Asia. 
The  ordaining  council  was  composed  of  the  pastors  of  the 
North  Congregational  Church  in  Newburyport,  the  Congrega- 
tional Church  in  Charlestown,  and  the  Tabernacle  church  in 
Salem,  and  delegates  from  the  same  churches  ;  and  of  the 
Rev.  Dr.  Griffin,  pastor  of  Park  Street  Church,  Boston,  late 
professor  at  Andover,  and  the  Rev.  Dr.  Woods,  professor  at 
Andover.  The  Rev.  Professor  Stuart  was  invited  to  attend, 
but  was  necessarily  prevented. 

The  young  gentlemen  were  examined  with  respect  to  their 
doctrinal  views,  their  personal  hopes  of  the  divine  favor,  and 
their  motives  and  prospects  in  offering  themselves  to  this  im- 
portant service  among  the  heathen. 

The  parts  in  the  solemnities  of  the  day  were  as  follows  : 
The  Rev.  Dr.  Griffin  made  the  introductory  prayer ;  the  Rev. 
Dr.  Woods  preached  the  sermon,  from  Psalm  Ixvii.  ;  the  Rev. 
Dr.  Morse  made  the  consecrating  prayer ;  the  Rev.  Dr.  Spring 
delivered  the  charge ;  the  Rev.  Dr.  Worcester  presented  the 
right  hand  of  fellowship,  and  the  Rev.  Dr.  Spring  made  the  con- 
cluding prayer.  The  exercises  were  solemn  and  appropriate, 
and  evidently  made  a  deep  impression  on  a  crowded  audience. 
The  sermon,  charge,  and  right  hand  of  fellowship  are  printed. 
A  very  large  impression  is  struck  off,  and  the  profits  will  be 
applied  to  the  support  of  this  mission. 

This  transaction  may  justly  be  considered  as  forming  a  new 
and  important  era  in  the  annals  of  the  American  churches  — 
the  era  of  foreign  missiojis.  It  would  be  natural  to  indulge 
in  pleasing  anticipations  of  the  blessings,  which,  with  the 
divine  assistance,  these  missionaries  may  be  the  means  of 
communicating  to  Asia.  But,  while  we  leave  the  issue  of 
this  benevolent  enterprise  to  the  disposal  of  infinite  wisdom, 
the  good  effects  of  these  missionary  exertions  among  ourselves 
ought  to  be  mentioned  with  devout  gratitude.  Christians  feel 
more  sensibly  than  ever  the  value  of  their  holy  religion,  while 


RELATIONS    WITH    TUE    BOARD.  81 

devoting  their  money  and  their  time  to  extend  its  blessings  to 
the  heathen.  Christians  of  diiFerent  denominations,  who  love 
our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  sincerity,  experience  the  blessedness 
of  uniting  in  this  great  catholic  labor  of  love. 

Messrs.  Newell  and  Judson,  with  their  wdves,  sailed  from 
Salem  in  the  brig  Caravan,  Captain  Heard,  on  Wednesday, 
the  lOtii  instant,  amidst  the  prayers  and  benedictions  of  multi- 
tudes, whose  hearts  go  with  them,  and  who  will  not  cease  to 
remember  them  at  the  throne  of  grace. 

Messrs.  Nott,  Hall,  and  Rice,  and  the  wafe  of  Mr.  Nott,  sailed 
from  Philadelphia  in  the  ship  Harmony,  Captain  Brown, 
on  the  18th  instant.  They  and  their  brethren  from  Salem 
probably  lost  sight  of  the  shores  of  their  native  country  about 
the  same  time.  Though  they  never  expect  to  return,  they 
will  not  be  forgotten ;  and,  if  they  obtain  grace  to  be  faithful 
to  their  Lord  and  Master,  their  memories  will  be  blessed. 

Before  closing  this  chapter,  it  seems  necessary  to 
advert  to  the  reprimand  said  to  have  been  adminis- 
tered to  Mr.  Judson,  at  the  meeting  of  the  board  at 
Worcester,  September  19,  1811.  I  regret  that  I  am 
called  to  treat  of  this  subject,  since  it  has  been  sup- 
posed by  many  persons  to  present  the  character  of 
good  men  in  an  unamiable  light.  With  unfeigned 
pleasure,  however,  I  am  able  to  state,  that  I  can  dis- 
cover nothing  in  the  facts  which  tends  in  the  least  to 
diminish  our  love  and  esteem  for  any  of  the  parties 
concerned. 

The  facts  in  the  case  are  briefly  as  follows :  — 
1.  The  missionaries  were  all  received,  so  far  as  it 
was  known  to  the  public,  on  the  same  terms  of  affec- 
tionate regard.  No  one  supposed  that  either  of  them 
was,  or  ever  had  been,  under  censure.  It  would  have 
been  an  act  of  unwarrantable  rashness  in  the  board 
to  send  out  as  missionary  pioneers  men  in  whom  they 
had  not  entire  confidence. 


82  MEMOIR    OF   DR.   JUDSON. 

2.  On  the  passage,  Mr.  Judson  became  convinced 
that  the  New  Testament  fm-nished  no  authority  for 
infant  baptism.  Shortly  after  his  arrival  at  Calcutta, 
he  was  baptized  by  immersion,  and  joined  the  Baptist 
church  in  that  city.  He  afterwards  published  a  ser- 
mon, in  which  he  presented  the  reasons  for  the  change 
in  his  opinions. 

3.  In  due  time,  a  reply  to  this  sermon,  by  a  much 
respected  Congregational  clergyman,  appeared.  In 
the  introduction  to  the  sermon,  it  was  stated  that 
Mr.  Judson  had  been  reprimanded  by  the  board  at 
Worcester;  and  it  was  understood  to  be  intimated 
that  the  irritation  caused  by  this  censure  had  induced 
him  to  embrace  the  earliest  opportunity  for  leaving 
their  service.  This  intimation  has,  we  believe,  been 
long  since  withdrawn,  and  men  of  all  denominations 
regret  that  it  was  ever  made. 

4.  To  this  imputation  Mr.  Judson  replied  by  a  direct 
denial.  He  affirmed  that  no  reprimand  had  ever  been 
administered  ;  he  appealed  to  all  the  members  of  the 
board  for  confirmation  of  his  testimony ;  and  he 
showed  conclusively  that  no  such  motives  as  had 
been  suggested  could  possibly  have  affected  his 
decisions. 

o.  Upon  the  receipt  of  this  denial,  it  was,  I  believe, 
reasserted  by  the  Corresponding  Secretary  of  the 
board,  that   the  reprimand   had    been   administered. 

6.  Rev.  Samuel  Nott,  Jr.,  the  intimate  friend  of 
Mr.  Judson,  and  formerly  his  missionary  associate, 
published  his  "testimony  in  favor  of  Judson."  He 
admits,  however,  that  Mr.  Judson's  "proceedings  pre- 
viously to  his  leaving  this  country  were  in  some 
respects  unsatisfactory  to  the  board  and  the  com- 
mittee, and  that  Mr.  Judson  was  informed  of  this 
formally  and  solemnly." 


RELATIONS    WITH    THE    BOARD.  8o 

7.  In  1830,  Mr.  Judson  wrote  a  letter  to  Mr.  Evarts, 
then  Corresponding  Secretary,  (Dr.  Worcester  having 
died  in  1821,)  in  which  he  acknowledges  that  many 
circumstances  have  convinced  him  that  there  was,  at 
the  time  referred  to,  an  expression  of  dissatisfaction 
which  gave  some  just  ground  for  the  statements  which 
had  been  made  on  the  subject,  and  expressing  sincere 
regret  for  the  spirit  of  the  letter  which  he  had  written 
to  his  father  in  relation  to  it. 

Such  are,  I  believe,  all  the  prominent  facts  in  the 
case.  I  beg  leave  to  offer  such  suggestions  in  regard 
to  them  as  have  occurred  to  me. 

In  the  first  place,  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  an  ad- 
monition was  addressed  to  Mr.  Judson  by  Dr.  Spring, 
by  direction  of  the  board.  The  reasons  for  such  a 
measure  are  obvious.  Mr.  Judson  had  been  sent  to 
England  to  propose  a  union  between  the  London 
society  and  the  American  board,  to  learn  all  in  his 
power  respecting  missions,  and  make  a  written  report 
to  the  board.  He  had  made  no  written  report,  and  the 
letter  from  Mr.  Burder  made  no  allusion  to  the  points 
which  he  had  been  directed  to  present.  Mr.  Judson 
came  back  with  an  appointment  from  the  London 
society,  and  thus  left  the  board  only  the  option  of 
appointing  the  four  missionaries  at  once,  or  of  surren- 
dering them  to  the  London  society.  I  can  easily 
sympathize  with  the  feelings  of  the  board  on  this 
occasion.  They  were  committing  themselves  to  a 
great  undertaking.  It  was  of  the  utmost  importance  to 
all  the  parties  concerned,  that  the  relations  in  which  they 
stood  to  each  other  should  be  well  defined  and  clearly 
understood.  They  wished  to  mark  the  first  instance 
of  departure  from  the  principles  which  should  govern 
their  intercourse  with  their  missionaries.     They  might 


84  MEMOIR    OF    DK.   .TUDSON. 

do,  and  they  evidently  did,  aJl  this  without  in  the  least 
abating  their  confidence  in  the  individual.  This  very 
self-reliance,  which  had  appeared  somewhat  in  excess, 
was  a  quality  of  the  highest  value  in  the  service  to 
which  he  was  appointed.  This  was  precisely  Dr. 
Spring's  estimate  of  Judson,  whom  he  loved  as  a 
son. 

But  Mr.  Judson  denied  that  a  reprimand  had  ever 
been  given.  I  think  that  this  is  susceptible  of  easy 
explanation.  Mr.  Judson  was  inflamed  with  a  "  pas- 
sion for  missions  "  in  as  high  a  degree  as  any  person 
of  whom  I  have  ever  read.  He  believed  that  God  had 
called  him  to  this  service,  and  that,  having  called,  God 
would  sustain  him  in  it.  He  preferred  greatly  to  go 
out  under  the  auspices  of  the  American  churches.  If 
these  failed,  he  would  have  gone  out  under  the  sanc- 
tion of  the  London  society.  If  this  hope  had  failed, 
he  would  have  begged  his  passage  money  from  Chris- 
tians at  home,  and  taking  a  few  hundred  dollars,  which 
he  happened  to  possess,  would  have  thrown  himself, 
with  no  other  aid,  on  the  providence  of  God.  He, 
however,  believed  that,  if  he  and  his  brethren  took 
such  a  step,  it  would  effectually  arouse  the  churches 
at  home,  and  that  thus  all  needed  aid  would  be 
afforded. 

With  these  views,  he  went  to  England,  his  whole 
mind  being  intent  on  finding  some  way  of  getting  to 
the  heathen.  Every  thing  else  seemed  to  him  of  little 
consequence  ;  and  the  plan  of  uniting  with  the  Lon- 
don society  was  found  at  first  view  to  be  impractica- 
ble. He  returned  with  the  means  of  going  to  the 
East  for  himself  and  his  brethren.  Still  he  wished  to 
be  sent  by  the  American  churches.  With  these  views, 
and  with  his  constitutional  ardor  of  temperament,  I 


RELATIONS    WITH    THE    BOARD.  85 

presume  that  he  pressed  the  board  to  a  decision  with 
a  somewhat  unceremonious  earnestness,  plainly  inti- 
mating that,  if  they  did  not  send  him  and  his  breth- 
ren, they  would  at  once  use  the  appointment  of  the 
London  society. 

This  earnestness  succeeded,  and  on  the  second  day 
of  the  session  the  appointment  was  made.  Still,  the 
board  were  annoyed  by  his  pertinacity,  and  plainly 
informed  him  that  there  were  parts  of  his  conduct 
of  which  they  disapproved.  This  was,  I  doubt  not, 
a  recital  of  errors  which  Judson  had  often  confessed 
in  humiliation  before  God,  over  which  he  had  wept, 
and  against  which  he  had  labored  and  prayed  times 
without  number.  He  felt  thankful  to  the  fathers  for 
their  faithfulness,  and  resolved  to  strive  the  harder 
for  Christian  perfection.  He  had  no  idea  that  any 
serious  displeasure  was  intended ;  and  every  other 
thought  was  immediately  swallowed  up  in  the  consid- 
eration that  he  and  his  brethren  were  now  appointed 
missionaries  to  the  heathen,  and  appointed  by  their 
American  brethren.  In  his  letters  at  this  period  he 
speaks  of  this  event  as  the  consummation  of  all  his 
wishes.  The  board  afterwards,  until  the  time  of  his 
embarkation,  gave  him  no  reason  to  suppose  that  he 
had  been  subject  to  any  serious  displeasure  ;  and  the 
whole  thing  passed  entirely  out  of  his  mind.  Hence, 
when,  some  years  afterwards,  it  was  asserted  that  he 
had  been  censured  by  the  board,  and  censured  so 
gravely  as  to  occasion  his  profession  of  a  change  of 
sentiment  in  order  to  separate  himself  from  them,  he 
at  once  met  it  with  a  flat  denial,  and  publicly  called  on 
every  member  of  the  board  to  vindicate  his  character. 

Some  years  passed  away.  He  could  now  more 
readily  place  himself  in  the  position  of  the  board,  and 

VOL.   I.  S 


86  MEMOIR    OF   DR.    JUDSON. 

understand  their  duties  and  responsibilities.  He  could 
see  how  his  zealous  pertinacity,  even  with  the  best 
motives,  would  affect  men  in  their  circumstances.  He 
saw  the  a  priori  probability  that  some  admonition 
would  have  been  given.  He  remembered  that  Dr. 
Spring  had  addressed  him.  Mr.  Nott,  his  friend  and 
companion,  admitted  a  "  solemn  and  formal  admoni- 
tion." The  members  of  the  board  all  testified  to  the 
same  fact.  Under  these  circumstances,  he  could  not 
but  admit  that  something  had  taken  place  of  a  graver 
character  than  he  had  been  at  the  time  aware  of  He 
no  sooner  came  to  this  conclusion  than  he  at  once 
corrected  his  error,  and  resolved-  to  do  justice  to  the 
memory  of  Dr.  Worcester,  whom  he  had  unintention- 
ally injured.  This  he  did  in  his  letter  from  Prome,  to 
which  allusion  has  been  made.  Nothing  that  Dr. 
Judson  has  done  through  life  presents  his  character  in 
a  more  favorable  light,  or  exhibits  more  clearly  the 
controlling  power  of  Christian  integrity,  than  this 
transaction. 

One  other  remark,  and  I  have  done.  There  was, 
in  the  year  .1811,  a  strong  feeling  of  sectarian  antago- 
nism between  the  Congregationalists  and  Baptists. 
The  change  of  sentiment  in  Mr.  Judson  was  consid- 
ered by  his  former  brethren  a  severe  trial  and  a  pain- 
ful disappointment.  Remembering  the  address  of 
Dr.  Spring  to  Judson  through  the  medium  of  existing 
feeling,  is  it  too  much  to  suppose  that  it  assumed  a 
graver  aspect  than  it  wore  at  the  moment  of  its  deliv- 
ery, or  that  a  faithful  paternal  admonition,  to  an  over- 
zealous  and  too  confident  youth,  assumed  afterwards 
the  lineaments  of  a  grave  reprimand  or  a  decided 
censure  ?  That  any  member  of  the  board  would, 
under  these  circumstances,   have  intentionally  made 


RELATIONS  WITH  THE  BOARD.  87 

the  slightest  deviation  from  the  exact  verity,  I  do  not 
for  a  moment  believe  ;  but  that  they  should,  under 
such  a  trial,  have  been  affected  by  the  general  laws 
of  humanity,  is  surely  not  improbable. 

To  sum  up  the  whole  matter,  then,  I  would  say 
that  .Judson,  in  wholly  untried  circumstances,  did  not 
perceive  distinctly  his  relations  to  the  board,  and, 
acting  from  the  dictates  of  self-sacrificing  zeal,  did 
not  sufficiently  recognize  their  authority.  On  this 
subject  they  very  properly  admonished  him,  but  with 
so  much  parental  and  Christian  feeling,  that,  while  it 
melted  him  to  tears,  left  on  his  mind  no  trace  of  dis- 
pleasure. When  it  was  intimated  that  he  had  been 
censured,  and  so  censured  that  it  incited  him  to  leave 
the  service  of  the  board, — the  most  self-sacrificing  act, 
as  he  always  testified,  of  his  whole  life,  —  he  met  it 
with  a  prompt  denial.  In  the  course  of  years,  when 
he  reviewed  the  whole  subject,  recalled  the  whole 
series  of  events,  and  received  the  testimony  of  Mr. 
Nott  and  of  the  members  of  the  board,  he  was  satis- 
fied that  more  had  occurred  than  he  at  first  recol- 
lected. He  then,  at  once,  as  became  a  Christian 
and  an  honorable  man,  made  all  the  reparation  in 
his  power  by  confessing  his  error.  His  letter  should 
have  been  published  at  the  time,  according,  I  think, 
to  his  manifest  intention. 

The  following  letters,  addressed,  the  one  to  Dr. 
Spring,  of  Newburyport,  and  the  other  to  Jeremiah 
Evarts,  Esq.,  indicate  the  views  of  Mr.  Judson  at  the 
commencement  and  the  close  of  this  transaction. 

Rangoon,  June  30,  1819. 
Rev.  and  dear  Sir  :  I  have  been  perfectly  astonished  to 
find  it  publicly  asserted,  that  "  a  formal  and  solemn  reprimand 
was  administered  to  me  in  presence  of  the   board,"  at  the 


88  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

Worcester  session,  in  1811.     My  best  recollections  assure  me 
that  this  assertion  is  founded  on  a  mistake. 

I  am  induced  to  apply  particularly  to  you,  sir,  by  my  recol- 
lecting a  conversation  which  passed  between  us,  in  Madam 
Phillips's  house,  in  Andover,  some  days  after  the  session,  in 
which  you  suggested  a  fear  that  I  had  alienated  the  minds  of 
some  of  the  members  of  the  board,  and  instanced  General 
Huntington,  as  having  particularly  disapproved  of  my  pro- 
ceedings. Now,  it  appears  to  me  that  this  conversation  would 
have  been  quite  irrelevant,  and,  indeed,  could  not  possibly  have 
taken  place,  if  we  had  both  been  conscious  at  the  time  that  a 
formal  reprimand  had  been  given  me  by  the  board. 

I  am  further  induced  to  apply  to  you,  from  feeling  that  your 
opinion  on  that  subject  would  tend  more  than  that  of  any  other 
person  to  relieve  and  satisfy  my  mind.  Will  you,  therefore, 
please  to  inform  me  whether  you  think  the  charge  correct 
or  not  ? 

I  hope  that  my  unfortunate  apostasy  will  not  be  considered 
as  depriving  me  of  the  privilege  of  receiving  your  kindness, 
in  which  it  was  my  happiness  to  participate  so  largely  in 
former  days,  and  of  which  I  shall  ever  retain  a  most  grateful 
recollection.     I  remain,  reverend  and  dear  sir. 

Your  much  obliged  and  obedient  friend  and  servant, 

A. JuDSON,  Jr. 

Kev.  Dr.  Spring.* 

Peome,  June  13,  1830. 

My  dear  Sir  :  I  have  lately  felt  it  my  duty  to  confess  my 
faults  to  all  those  whom  I  have  in  any  way  injured,  whether 
wilfully  or  inadvertently ;  and  were  the  late  Dr.  Worcester 
still  living,  I  should  desire  to  write  him  in  the  following  man- 
ner :  "  Rev.  Sir :  When  I  read  your  public  letter  concerning 
the  reprimand  said  to  have  been  given  me  by  the  Board  of 
Commissioners,  I  was  perfectly  astonished  ;  and  for  many  years 
I  really  thought  that  there  was  no  ground  whatever  for  your 
allegations.     I  am  now,  however,  convinced  from  a  number  of 

*  Of  Newburyport.  Dr.  S.  was  a  member  of  the  Prudential  Com- 
mittee.    He  had  deceased  previous  to  the  arrival  of  this  letter. 


RELATIONS  WITH  THE  BOARD.  ^ 

circumstances  thcat  I  was  mistaken,  and  that  there  was  some 
expression  of  dissatisfaction  on  the  part  of  the  board,  which, 
though  it  made  so  shght  an  impression  on  my  mind  as  to  be 
entirely  forgotten  for  many  years,  furnished  you  with  some 
just  ground  for  a  part  of  the  statements  in  the  said  letter. 
There  are  other  parts,  concerning  which  I  have  nothing  to  say 
in  addition  to  what  I  wrote  at  the  time,  except,  in  general, 
that  I  deeply  regret  and  condemn  the  spirit  with  which  I 
penned  my  reply  in  self-vindication,  it  being,  as  I  now  per- 
ceive, at  variance  with  the  spirit  of  the  blessed  Saviour, 
whose  law  requires  us  to  resist  not  evil,  but  when  smitten  on 
the  right  cheek,  to  turn  the  other.  I  hope  that  I  have  humbly 
repented  before  Grod,  and  received  his  pardon  ;  and  I  humbly 
beg  your  pardon  also." 

Such  is  the  tenor  of  the  letter  I  should  be  glad  to  addi'ess 
to  Dr.  Worcester ;  but  it  is  now  too  late  for  me  to  do  any  thing 
more  than  to  forward  it  to  you,  his  successor  in  the  Corre- 
spondmg  Secretary's  office,  and  leave  it  for  you  to  make  what 
use  of  it  you  think  proper. 

I  hope  you  will  excuse  my  troubling  you.  I  am  aware  that 
this  communication  will  afford  you  no  pleasure ;  nor  should  I 
make  it  if  1  consulted  my  credit  with  men.  But  I  write  to 
please  One  whom  I  desire  to  love  supremely,  and  whose  smiles 
I  covet  above  all  created  good. 

Yours,  in  Christian  love, 

A.  JUDSON. 
Jer.  Evarts,  Esq. 


Ill  a  conversation  on  this  subject,  but  a  year  or  two 
before  his  death,  Dr.  Judson  confirmed  the  view  which 
I  have  taken  above.  He  said  that  his  first  statement 
to  Dr.  Baldwin  was  made  in  perfect  sincerity.  He 
never  considered  himself  reprimanded  ;  he  was  igno- 
rant of  the  passing  of  any  vote  on  the  subject,  and 
was  not  aware  of  any  serious  displeasure  on  the  part 


0D  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

of  the  committee,  though  quite  aware  that  they  were 
annoyed  (momentarily,  as  he  supposed)  at  his  perti- 
nacity. When  Nott's  testimony  was  published,  he 
was  astonished  to  find  so  much  admitted,  though  the 
formal  reprimand  was  denied.  In  the  course  of  years, 
however,  circumstances  came  gradually  to  his  recol- 
lection which  made  him  think  that  Dr.  Worcester's 
assertion  had  some  just  foundation,  and  that  the 
board  were  more  displeased  at  his  zealous  boldness 
than  he  was  aware  of  at  the  time.  He  said,  how- 
ever, that  he  could  not,  on  the  whole,  regret  his  course 
before  the  board  at  Worcester,  and  speculated  at 
some  length  on  what  would  have  been  the  probable 
result  if  he  and  Nott  had  waited  for  "  the  further 
intimations  of  Providence."  He  also  said  that  his 
letter  from  Prome,  though  written  under  peculiar  in- 
fluences, met  the  approval  of  his  sober  judgment, 
and  he  felt  a  satisfaction  in  having  done  his  duty  as 
soon  as  he  became  aware  of  it,  however  much  the 
meaning  of  his  honest  communication  might  be  per- 
verted. 

In  another  conversation,  he  alluded  to  the  injudi- 
ciousness  of  calling  up  these  long-forgotten  incidents, 
and  added,  "  When  I  grasp  the  hand  of  Dr.  Worcester 
in  heaven,  I  do  not  think  we  shall  either  of  us  feel 
called  upon  to  settle  any  such  differences." 

I  do  not  know  how  I  can  close  this  subject  more 
appropriately  than  by  adding  the  following  letter  from 
Dr.  Judson  to  Dr.  Anderson,  the  present  secretary  of 
the  American  Board,  and  the  noble  and  beautiful 
reply  of  Dr,  Anderson. 


RELATIONS  WITH  THE  BOARD.  M 

Maulmain,  January  21,  1839. 

Rev.  and  dear  Sir:  The  Missionary  Herald  has  been 
kindly  sent  to  me  gratis,  through  Messrs.  Cockerell  &  Co., 
and  by  way  of  Rangoon,  in  parcels  of  several  numbers  at 
a  time,  by  which  means  it  does  not  reach  me  in  good  season. 
I  beg  leave  to  request  that  each  number,  as  soon  as  published, 
may  be  sent,  with  my  name  upon  it,  to  the  Missionary  Rooms 
of  the  Baptist  Board,  and  then  it  will  be  forwarded,  with  oth- 
er articles,  by  the  earliest  and  most  direct  conveyance. 

I  am  aware  that  it  is  not  regular  to  trouble  you  with  this 
business  ;  but,  to  tell  the  truth,  I  have  rather  caught  at  it  as 
giving  me  an  occasion  to  drop  you  a  line,  and  perhaps  get  one 
in  return.  Though  I  have  been  (as  some  may  think)  a  way- 
ward son  of  the  American  Board  of  Commissioners  for  For- 
eign Missions,  I  have  always  retained  the  warmest  filial  affec- 
tion for  that  body,  under  whose  auspices  I  first  came  out. 

I  was  also  afraid  that,  attempting  to  change  the  mode  of 
conveyance,  I  should,  by  some  accident,  lose  my  Herald  alto- 
gether, unless  I  wTOte  you,  and  begged  you  to  secure  me  from 
such  a  misfortune. 

There  are  not  many,  perhaps,  now  living,  w^ho  can  say,  as  I 
can,  that  they  have  read  every  number  of  the  Herald,  from 
the  time  it  first  commenced  its  existence,  in  the  form  of  the 
Panoplist  and  Massachusetts  Missionary  Magazine,  to  the 
present  time  ;  and  I  hope  to  enjoy  the  privilege  as  long  as  T 
live.  The  Herald,  in  my  view,  contains  more  interesting  mis- 
sionary information,  and  a  development  of  sounder  missionary 
principles,  than  any  other  publication  in  the  world. 
I  remain,  reverend  and  dear  sir. 

Yours,  most  sincerely, 

A.   JUDSON. 
Rev.  Dr.  Anderson,  Cor.  Sec.  A.  B.  C.  F.  M. 

Missionary  House,  Bostox,  August  1,  1839. 

Rev.  Adoniram  Judson,  Maulmain,  India. 

Rev.  and  dear  Sir:  A  few  days  since  I  had  the  great 
pleasure    of  receiving  your  favor  of  January  21.     If   any 


92  MEMOIR    OF    DR.   JUDSON. 

thing  was  wanted,  in  addition  to  your  long,  devoted,  and  suc- 
cessful missionary  life,  to  perfect  the  impression  made  by  your 
letter  to  Mr.  Evarts,  dated  June  13,  1830,  (and  which  I  re- 
plied to  February  25,  1831,)  it  was  such  a  letter  as  lies  now 
before  me.  But  I  should  not  have  said,  nor  am  I  aware,  that 
any  thing  was  necessary  to  give  you  a  stronger  hold  upon  our 
hearts  than  any  other  one  of  the  brethren  of  your  society 
can  possibly  have.  We  rejoice  in  the  good,  the  very  great 
good,  which  has  grown  out  of  your  change  of  relation.  We 
see  the  good  hand  of  our  God  in  this.  We  would  not,  there- 
fore, have  it  otherwise.  The  old  asperities  of  feeling  have  per- 
ished in  the  grave,  or  have  been  softened  down  by  time  and  the 
grace  of  God.  We  love  to  think  of  you  as  intimately  related 
to  us  —  having  a  common  missionary  parentage.  Hence  we 
send  you  the  Herald,  and  on  this  account  we  mean  to  send  it 
to  you  as  long  as  you  continue  a  missionary  of  our  Lord  and 
Master. 

I  will  give  directions  for  sending  the  Herald  monthly  to  the 
Baptist  Missionary  Rooms,  with  your  name  upon  it,  and  will 
take  all  the  pains  I  can  to  see  that  this  is  done  from  year  to 
year.  Still,  while  this  method  will  insure  its  being  sent  to 
you  without  the  long  delays  attendant  on  the  other  course, 
there  is  a  liabiHty,  which  I  know  not  how  to  prevent,  that  it 
may  accidentally  stop  at  the  end  of  almost  any  year.  I  would 
therefore  request  you,  should  there  be  any  interruption  in 
your  receipt  of  the  work,  to  attribute  it  to  accident  in  the  pub- 
lishing office^  and  write  immediately  to  me,  or  my  successor, 
(for  secretaries  are  apt  to  be  a  short-lived  race,)  state  what 
numbers  are  wanting  to  complete  the  series,  and  remind  us  of 
our  duty. 

I  send  a  small  parcel  of  our  recent  publications  to  the  Bap- 
tist Missionary  Rooms  for  you,  and  may  perhaps  trouble  you 
in  this  manner  in  time  to  come. 

With  great  esteem  and  cordial  affection,  and  with  fervent 
desires  for  the  continued  prosperity  of  yourself  and  your  fel- 
low-laborers, I  am,  my  dear  brother,  most  truly  yours, 

R.  Anderson, 
Sec.  of  A.  B.  C.  F.  M. 


CHAPTER    IV. 

EMBARKATION.  —  ARRIVAL  IN  INDIA.  — CHANGE  OF  VIEWS  ON 
BArriSlI.  — COURSE  OF  THE  EAST  INDIA  COMPANY.  — ESCAPE 
TO  THE  ISLE  OF  FRANCE.  — PASSAGES  TO  MADRAS  AND  RAN- 
GOON.—FORJIATION  OF  THE  BAPTIST  GENERAL  CONVENTION 
FOR   FOREIGN  MISSIONS. 

1812-1813. 

On  the  19th  of  February,  1812,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Jud- 
son  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Newell  embarked  at  Salem,  in 
the  brig  Caravan,  Captain  Heard,  bound  for  Calcutta. 
They  had  been  some  time  waiting  for  a  fair  wind  ; 
and,  on  the  18th,  the  long-expected  change  in  the 
weather  took  place,  and  the  passengers  were  in  haste 
summoned  on  board.  The  brig  remained,  however, 
at  anchor  during  the  night,  and  on  the  following  morn- 
ing set  sail  with  a  favorable  breeze. 

The  embarkation  was  sudden,  and  but  few  of  their 
friends  were  aware  of  the  time  of  their  departure. 
Every  comfort  which  kindness  could  suggest  had, 
however,  been  previously  provided.  The  captain 
was  an  intelligent  and  amiable  gentleman,  and  they 
commenced  their  voyage  under  the  most  auspicious 
circumstances.  The  passage  was  pleasant,  and  on 
the  17th  of  June  they  arrived  in  Calcutta.  Messrs. 
Nott,  Hall,  and  Kice,  who  sailed  about  the  same  time 
in  the  Harmony,  from  Philadelphia,  did  not  arrive  un- 
til the  8th  of  the  following  month. 

A  controversy  has,  unfortunately,  been  carried  on, 
respecting  the  embarkation  at  Salem,  to  which  it  is 
necessary  very  briefly  to  advert. 

When  l)r.  Judson  returned  to  this  country,  after 
thirty-three  years'  absence,  he  was  greatly  surprised  at 

93 


94  MEMOIR    OF    DR.   JUDSON. 

the  change  which  had  taken  place  in  public  opinion 
on  the  subject  of  missions.  When  he  left  for  India, 
devout  men  were  beginning  to  be  interested  in  it ;  a 
few  others  looked  with  admiration  at  the  romantic 
self-sacrifice  which  it  exhibited ;  but  I  think  I  do  not 
err  in  asserting  that  it  was  by  many  good  men  consid- 
ered a  hopeless  undertaking.  From  my  own  personal 
knowledge,  I  can  testify  that,  as  late  as  Mrs.  Ann  Jud- 
son's  second  embarkation,  it  was  with  some  difficulty 
that  passages  were  procured  for  missionaries  to  India. 
When  Dr.  Judson  returned,  he  found  the  cause  of  mis- 
sions to  the  heathen  the  favorite  object  of  Christian 
benevolence.  It  had  entirely  silenced  opposition,  and 
multiplied  without  limit  the  number  of  its  friends. 
He  was  filled  with  admiration  at  what  he  saw,  and 
felt  assured  that  his  highest  anticipations  of  the  prog- 
ress of  the  cause  had  been  more  than  realized. 

In  speaking  on  this  subject,  he,  on  one  or  two  occa- 
sions, contrasted  the  circumstances  of  the  pioneers, 
when  they  left  their  native  country,  with  those  of  their 
brethren  who  were  at  the  present  day  following  them. 
I  am  confident  that,  in  these  remarks,  he  had  not  the 
most  remote  idea  of  undervaluing  the  kindness  of  his 
friends  in  Salem.  In  all  his  letters,  as  well  as  those 
of  Mrs.  Judson,  this  subject  is  never  alluded  to  but  in 
terms  of  affectionate  gratitude.  A  use  was,  however, 
made  of  these  remarks,  which  gave  pain  to  the  family 
of  the  late  Dr.  Worcester,  and  some  of  his  friends  at 
Salem.  This  was  as  far  as  possible  from  his  inten- 
tion. The  contrast  struck  him  forcibly,  and,  in  speak- 
ing of  it,  he  alluded  to  circumstances  which  happened 
to  occur  to  him.  He  did  not  suppose  that  they  would 
give  pain  to  any  one ;  for,  as  they  existed  in  his  mind, 
there  was  nothing  either  wrong  or  unkind  associated 
with  them. 


CHANGE    OF    VIEWS    ON   BAPTISM.  95 

The  only  event  on  the  passage  which  has  become 
specially  worthy  of  note  is  the  fact  that  Mr.  Judson 
availed  himself  of  this  period  of  leisure  to  investigate 
anew  the  scriptural  authority  for  infant  baptism.  He 
was  prompted  to  this  course  by  two  considerations. 
In  the  first  place,  he  looked  forward  to  the  time  when 
he  should  be  surrounded  by  converts  from  heathenism. 
How  should  he  treat  their  children  and  servants  ? 
Was  he  authorized  to  baptize  them  ?  and  if  so,  what 
would  be  their  relation  to  the  Christian  church  after- 
wards ?  Besides  this,  he  was  going  in  the  first  in- 
stance to  Serampore,  to  reside  for  a  time  with  the 
Baptist  missionaries.  He  felt  the  necessity  for  reex- 
amining the  subject,  as  he  expected  to  be  called  upon 
by  them  to  defend  his  belief.  In  this  latter  respect, 
however,  he  found  himself  singularly  disappointed ; 
for  the  gentlemen  at  Serampore  made  it  a  matter  of 
principle  never  to  introduce  the  subject  of  their  pecu- 
liar belief  to  any  of  their  brethren  of  other  denomina- 
tions who  happened  to  be  their  guests. 

As  it  seems  proper  to  allow  Mr.  Judson  to  explain 
the  reasons  for  his  change  of  sentiment,  I  shall  here 
insert  a  large  part  of  his  letter  to  the  Third  Church 
in  Plymouth,  of  which  he  had  been  until  lately  a 
member. 

It  was  on  board  the  vessel,  in  prospect  of  ray  future  life 
among  the  heathen,  that  I  was  led  to  investigate  this  impor- 
tant subject.  I  was  going  forth  to  proclaim  the  glad  news  of 
salvation  through  Jesus  Christ.  I  hoped  that  my  ministrations 
would  be  blessed  to  the  conversion  of  souls.  In  that  case,  I 
felt  that  I  should  have  no  hesitation  concerning  my  duty  to  the 
converts,  it  being  plainly  commanded  in  Scripture  that  such 
are  to  be  baptized,  and  received  into  church  fellowship. 
But  how,  thought  I,  am  I  to  treat  the  unconverted  childi'en 
and  domestics  of  the  converts  ?     Are  they  to  be  considered 


96  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

members  of  the  church  of  Christ  by  virtue  of  the  conversion 
of  the  head  of  the  family,  or  not  ?  If  they  are,  ought  I  not  to 
treat  them  as  such  ?  After  they  are  baptized,  can  I  consist- 
ently set  them  aside,  as  aliens  from  the  commonwealth  of 
Israel,  until  they  are  readmitted  ?  If  they  are  not  to  be  con- 
sidered members  of  the  church,  can  I  consistently  administer 
to  them  the  initiating  ordinance  of  the  church  ? 

If  I  adopt  the  Abrahamic  covenant,  and  consider  the  Chris- 
tian church  a  continuation  of  the  Abrahamic  or  Jewish  system, 
I  must  adopt  the  former  part  of  the  alternative.  I  must  con- 
sider the  children  and  domestics  of  professors  as  members  of 
the  church,  and  treat  them  accordingly.  Abraham,  according 
to  the  terms  of  the  covenant  which  God  made  with  him,  cir- 
cumcised not  only  his  own  sons,  but  all  the  males  that  were 
born  in  his  house,  or  bought  with  money.  His  male  descend- 
ants, in  the  line  of  Isaac  and  Jacob,  were  entitled  to  the  same 
ordinance,  by  virtue  of  natural  descent,  and,  together  with 
their  domestics,  composed  tlie  ancient  church,  and  were  enti- 
tled to  all  its  privileges.  This  is  put  beyond  a  doubt  by  the 
single  fact,  that,  in  the  Abrahamic  community,  or  the  society 
of  Israel,  there  was  no  separate  party  calling  thetnselves,  by 
way  of  distinction,  the  church,  and  saying  to  others,  who  were 
equally  circumcised  with  themselves.  Stand  by  ;  touch  not  the 
passover ;  we  are  holier  than  you.  No.  All  the  members  of 
the  community  or  nation  were  of  course  members  of  the 
church.  They  were  entitled  to  church  membership  by  birth 
or  purchase.  Their  church  membership  was  recognized,  or 
they  were  initiated  into  the  church  by  circumcision ;  and  in 
subsequent  life  they  partook  of  the  passover,  which  was  the 
standing  sacrament  of  the  church,  analogous  to  the  Lord's 
supper,  and  enjoyed  all  the  rights  and  privileges  of  the  church, 
unless  they  were  excommunicated,  or,  in  scriptural  language, 
"  cut  off  from  the  people."  * 

*  If  any  one  slioulcl  be  inclined  to  doubt  the  right  of  circumcised 
children  to  the  passover,  let  him  consider  the  following  :  — 

Witsius.  <'In  those  companies"  (that  partook  of  the  passover) 
<<  men  and  women  sat  down  together,  old  men  and  young,  whole  and 


CHANGE    OF    VIEWS    ON    BAPTISM.  97 

Now,  let  me  be  consistent.  Since  I  am  exhorted  to  walk  in 
the  steps  of  father  Abraham,  let  me  follow  him  with  the  same 
faithfulness  which  procured  him  eminent  praise.  Let  me  not 
adopt  some  parts  of  his  covenant,  and  reject  others,  as  suits 
ray  own  convenience,  or  accords  with  the  notions  in  which  I 
have  been  educated.  Nor  let  me  complain  for  want  of  exam- 
ple and  prescription.  Behold  the  estabhshed  church  of  Eng- 
land. She  proves  herself,  in  many  respects,  a  worthy  daughter 
of  the  Abrahamic  or  Jewish  church.  She  receives  into  her 
charitable  bosom  all  the  descendants  of  professors,  and  all 
those  who,  though  not  of  her  seed,  belong  to  the  families  of 
professors  ;  and  these  collectively  come,  in  process  of  time,  to 
comprise  the  whole  nation.  This  is  truly  Abrahamic.  This 
is  the  very  system  which  the  ancestors  of  the  Jevvish  race, 
and  their  succeeding  rulers  and  priests,  uniformly  maintained. 
And  if  I  claim  an  interest  in  the  Abrahamic  covenant,  and 
consider  the  Christian  church  a  continuation  of  the  Jewish, 
why  should  I  hesitate  to  prove  myself  a  true  child  of  Abra- 
ham, and  a  consistent  Christian,  by  adopting  this  system  in  all 
its  parts,  and  introducing  it  among  the  heathen  ? 

But  I  considered  again  :  How  does  this  system  accord  with 
the  account  of  the  church  of  Christ  given  in  the  New  Testa- 
ment? It  appeared  to  me,  from  the  manner  in  which  this 
church  commenced  and  was   continued,  from  the  character  of 

sick,  masters  and  servants,  in  fine,  every  Jew  that  could  eat  a  morsel 
of  flesh,  not  excluding  even  young  cliildren."  —  (Econ.  Feed.  1.  iv.  c. 
ix.  §  14. 

Dr.  Scott.  "  Every  person,  in  each  household,  including  women  and 
children,  ate  this  first  passover,  none  being  excepted  but  uncircumcised 
males ;  and  afterwards  all,  who  were  not  ceremonially  unclean,  par- 
took of  it.  The  women  and  cldldren  were  not  indeed  commanded 
to  go  up  to  the  tabernacle,  where  it  was  celebrated ;  but  when  they 
did,  they  joined  in  this  sacred  feast."  —  Note  on  Exodus  xii.  43-45. 

After  the  tabernacle,  Avliere  alone  the  passover  could  be  eaten,  was 
estabhshed  at  Jerusalem,  young  children,  on  account  of  distance,  not 
on  account  of  any  personal  disquahfication,  were  seldom  brought  to 
partake  of  the  passover.  This  neglect,  however,  was  not  allowed 
after  they  had  attained  the  age  of  twelve  years. 
VOL.    I,  9 


98  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

its  members,  and,  in  fine,  from  its  whole  economy,  so  far  as 
detailed  in  the  New  Testament,  that  it  was  a  company  consist- 
ing of  select  individuals,  men  and  women,  who  gave  credible 
evidence  of  being  disciples  of  Christ ;  and  that  it  had  no 
regard  to  natural  descent,  or  accidental  connection  with  the 
families  of  professors. 

When  I  proceeded  to  consider  certain  passages,  which  are 
thought  to  favor  the  Pedobaptist  system,  I  found  nothing  sat- 
isfactory. 

The  sanctification  which  St.  Paul  ascribes  to  the  children 
of  a  believer,  (1  Cor.  vii.  14,)  I  found  that  he  ascribed  to  the 
unbelieving  parent  also ;  and  therefore,  whatever  be  the 
meaning  of  the  passage,  it  could  have  no  respect  to  church 
membership,  or  a  right  to  church  ordinances. 

The  declaration  of  St.  Peter,  "  The  promise  is  unto  you, 
and  to  your  children,  and  to  all  that  are  afar  off,  even  as  many 
as  the  Lord  our  God  shall  call,"  (Acts  ii.  39,)  appeared  not 
to  bear  at  all  on  the  point  in  hand,  because  the  apostle  does 
not  command  his  hearers  to  have  their  children  baptized,  or 
acknowledged  members  of  the  church,  but  to  repent  and  be 
baptized  themselves.  There  is  indeed  a  promise  made  to 
their  children,  and  to  all  others  that  God  shall  call ;  but  it 
does  not  follow  that  they  were  to  procure  the  baptism  of  their 
children,  or  of  those  that  were  afar  off,  until  they  gave  evi- 
dence that  God  had  called  them. 

When  Christ  said,  concerning  little  children,  that  "of  such 
is  the  kingdom  of  heaven,"  (Matt.  xix.  14,)  it  appeared  to  me 
that  his  comparison  had  respect,  not  to  the  age  or  size  of  little 
children,  but  to  the  humility  and  docility  which  distinguish 
them  from  adults.  This  seemed  to  be  put  beyond  a  doubt  by 
his  own  explanation,  in  a  similar  passage,  in  which  he  says, 
"  Except  ye  be  converted,  and  become  as  little  children,  ye 
shall  not  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven."    (Matt,  xviii.  3.) 

The  baptism  of  households,  which  is  mentioned  in  three 
instances,  I  could  not  consider  as  affording  any  evidence  one 
way  or  the  other,  because  in  a  household  there  may  be  infants 
and  unbelieving  domestics,  and  there  may  not.     Besides,  I 


^  CHANGE    OF    VIEWS    ON    BAPTISM.  99 

discovered  some  circumstances  in  each  of  the  cases  which  led 
me  to  conclude,  that  the  members  of  the  households  were  real 
believers.  They  are  expressly  said  to  be  so  in  the  case  of  the 
jailer,  (Acts  xvi.  34 ;)  and  the  same  is  evidently  implied  in  the 
case  of  Stephanas,  when  it  is  said  that  they  addicted  them- 
selves to  the  ministry  of  the  saints.    (1  Cor.  i.  16.) 

In  a  word,  I  could  not  find  a  single  intimation  in  the  New 
Testament  that  the  children  and  domestics  of  believers  Avere 
members  of  the  church,  or  entitled  to  any  church  ordinance, 
m  consequence  of  the  profession  of  the  head  of  their  family. 
Every  thing  discountenanced  this  idea.  "When  baptism  was 
spoken  of,  it  was  always  in  connection  with  believing.  None 
but  believers  were  commanded  to  be  baptized  ;  and  it  did  not 
appear  to  my  mind  that  any  others  were  baptized. 

Here,  then,  appeared  a  striking  difference  between  the 
Abrahamic  and  the  Christian  systems.  The  one  recognized 
the  membership  of  children,  domestics,  and  remote  descend- 
ants of  professors,  and  tended  directly  to  the  establishment  of 
a  national  religion.  The  other  appeared  to  be  a  selective  sys- 
tem, acknowledging  none  as  members  of  the  church  but  such 
as  gave  credible  evidence  of  believing  in  Christ. 

This  led  me  to  suspect  that  these  two  systems,  so  evidently 
different,  could  not  be  one  and  the  same.  And  now  the  light 
began  to  dawn.  The  more  I  read,  and  the  more  I  meditated 
on  the  subject,  the  more  clearly  it  appeared  to  me  that  all  my 
errors  and  difficulties  had  originated  in  confounding  these  two 
systems.  I  began  to  see  that  since  the  very  nature  and  con- 
stitution of  the  church  of  Christ  excluded  infants  and  unre- 
generate  domestics,  repentance  and  faith  being  always  repre- 
sented as  necessary  to  constitute  a  disciple,  we  had  no  right 
to  expect  any  directions  for,  or  any  examples  of,  the  initiation 
of  such  unqualified  persons  into  the  church.  To  search  for 
such  directions  and  examples  in  the  New  Testament,  would  be 
as  if  the  citizen  of  a  republic  should  go  to  search  his  national 
code  for  laws  concerning  the  royal  fjxmily,  which,  by  the  very 
nature  and  constitution  of  a  republic,  is  excluded.  Suppose 
that  such  a  citizen,  disappointed  in  his  search,  should  have 


100  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

recourse  to  the  constitution  and  laws  of  a  neighboring  mon- 
archy for  the  desired  information.  This,  it  appeared  to  me, 
would  aptly  represent  the  proceeding  of  those  who,  unable  to 
find  in  the  New  Testament  satisfactory  proof  of  the  right  of 
infants,  or  unregenerate  domestics,  should  have  recourse  to  the 
Abrahamic  and  Jewish  codes. 

At  length  I  adopted  the  following  sentiments  concerning  the 
two  churches,  and  the  concern  which  we  have  at  present  with 
the  old  dispensation.  The  Abrahamic  church  was  preparatory 
to,  and  typical  of,  the  Christian.  The  constitution  was  radi- 
cally different ;  but  it  was,  nevertheless,  wisely  adapted  to 
answer  the  ends  which  God  had  in  view.  Natural  descent  or 
purchase  was  sufficient  to  introduce  a  person  into  this  church ; 
but  still  it  appears  that  in  every  age  there  were  some  who 
were  truly  pious  ;  who  embraced  the  gospel  promise  made  to 
Abraham  before  the  covenant  of  circumcision  was  instituted ; 
who  also  looked  beyond  the  literal  meaning  of  the  require- 
ments and  promises,  contained  in  that  covenant,  to  the  glori- 
ous things  typified  thereby,  and  thus  exercised  true  faith  in 
the  coming  Messiah,  and  in  a  better  country,  that  is,  the 
heavenly.  When  the  Messiah  appeared,  this  preparatory  and 
typical  system,  having  answered  its  end,  was  destined  to  cease ; 
and  the  Lord  Jesus  set  uj)  his  kingdom  on  earth,  the  gospel 
church,  composed  of  such  only  as  repent  and  believe,  or  rather 
give  credible  evidence  of  these  gracious  exercises.  The  bar 
of  separation  between  the  Jews  and  the  rest  of  the  world  was 
removed ;  thenceforth  none  were  to  plead  that  they  had  Abra- 
ham for  their  father ;  none  were  to  rest  in  the  covenant  of 
circumcision,  assured  that,  if  they  did,  Christ  would  profit  them 
nothing ;  but  it  was  distinctly  declared,  tliat  thenceforth  there 
was  neither  Jew  nor  Greek,  bond  nor  free,  male  nor  female, 
but  all  were  one  in  Christ.     (Gal.  iii.  28.) 

But  whereas  the  Abrahamic  system  was  typical  of  the 
Christian,  so  the  spiritual  meaning  of  the  requirements  and 
promises  still  remains  in  force.  Thus,  by  looking  beyond  the 
letter,  and  regarding  the  spiritual  import,  according  to  the 
example  of  the  pious  Jews,  a  great  part  of  the  Old  Testament 


CHANGE    OF    VIEWS    ON    BAPTISM.  101 

is  still  applicable  to  us,  though  the  New  Testament  is  emphati- 
cally the  Christian's  law  book.  The  natural  seed  of  Abraham 
typifies  the  spiritual  seed.  The  land  of  Canaan  typifies  the 
heavenly  land.  External  circumcision  typifies  the  circum- 
cision of  the  heart,  a  circumcision  made  without  hands,  that  is, 
the  putting  off  the  body  of  the  sins  of  the  flesh,  even  the  cir- 
cumcision of  Christ.  (Col.  ii.  11.)  Believers,  therefore,  may 
embrace  the  promise  of  Canaan,  in  its  spiritual  application,  as 
made  to  themselves,  the  spiritual  seed,  who  have  received  the 
spiritual  circumcision.  Hence,  also,  all  the  devotional  parts 
of  the  Old  Testament,  particularly  the  Psalms  of  David,  the 
modern  believer  can  make  his  own,  adopting  the  language  as 
the  genuine  expressions  of  his  own  devout  feelings. 

In  the  same  way  are  to  be  explained  all  the  New  Testa- 
ment allusions  to  the  ancient  dispensation.  When,  for  in- 
stance, the  apostle  says,  "  If  ye  be  Christ's,  then  are  ye  Abra- 
ham's seed,  and  heirs  according  to  the  promise,"  (Gal.  iii.  29,) 
we  are  to  understand,  not  Abraham's  natural  seed,  surely,  but 
his  spiritual  seed,  those  who  by  faith  are  assimilated  to  him, 
and  thus  become  his  children ;  not  heirs  of  the  land  of  Ca- 
naan, in  the  literal  acceptation  of  the  words,  but  heirs  of  the 
blessing  of  justification  by  faith,  concerning  which  the  apostle 
had  been  discoursing,  and  consequently  of  the  spiritual  Ca- 
naan, the  city  of  the  living  God,  the  heavenly  Jerusalem. 

I  cannot  describe  to  you,  dear  brethren,  the  light  and  satis- 
faction which  I  obtained  in  taking  this  view  of  the  matter,  in 
considering  the  two  churches  distinct,  and  in  classing  my  ideas 
of  each  in  their  proper  place.  I  became  possessed  of  a  key 
that  unlocked  many  a  difficulty,  which  had  long  perplexed  me ; 
and  the  more  I  read  the  Bible,  the  more  clearly  I  saw  that 
this  was  the  true  system  therein  revealed. 

But  while  I  obtained  light  and  satisfaction  on  one  side,  I 
was  plunged  in  difficulty  and  distress  on  the  other.  If,  thought 
I,  this  system  is  the  true  one  ;  if  the  Christian  church  is  not 
a  continuation  of  the  Jewish  ;  if  the  covenant  of  circumcision 
is  not  precisely  the  covenant  in  which  Christians  now  stand, 
the  whole  foundation  of  pedobaptism  is  gone ;  there  is  no 
9* 


102  MEMOIR    OF    DR.   JUDSON. 

remaining  ground  for  the  administration  of  any  church  ordi- 
nance to  the  children  and  domestics  of  professors  ;  and  it 
follows  inevitably,  that  I,  who  was  christened  in  infancy,  on 
the  faith  of  my  parents,  have  never  yet  received  Christian 
baptism.  Must  I,  then,  forsake  my  parent.-?,  the  church  with 
which  I  stand  connected,  the  society  under  whose  jDatronage 
I  have  come  out,  the  companions  of  my  missionary  undertak- 
ing ?  Must  I  forfeit  the  good  opinion  of  all  my  friends  in  my 
native  land,  occasioning  grief  to  some,  and  provoking  others 
to  anger,  and  be  regarded  henceforth,  by  all  my  former  dear 
acquaintances,  as  a  weak,  despicable  Baptist,  who  has  not  sense 
enough  to  comprehend  the  connection  between  the  Abrahamic 
and  the  Christian  systems  ?  All  this  was  mortifying  ;  it  was 
hard  to  flesh  and  blood.  But  I  thought  again,  it  is  better  to 
be  guided  by  the  opinion  of  Christ,  who  is  the  truth,  than  by 
the  opinion  of  men,  however  good,  whom  I  know  to  be  in  an 
error.  The  praise  of  Christ  is  better  than  the  praise  of  men. 
Let  me  cleave  to  Christ  at  all  events,  and  prefer  his  favor 
above  my  chief  joy. 

There  was  another  thing  which  greatly  contributed,  just  at 
this  time,  to  drive  me  to  an  extremity.  I  knew  that  I  had 
been  sprinkled  in  infancy,  and  that  this  had  been  deemed  bap- 
tism. But  throughout  the  whole  New  Testament  I  coukl  find 
nothing  that  looked  like  sprinkling,  in  connection  with  the 
ordinance  of  baptism.  It  appeared  to  me,  that  if  a  plain  per- 
son should,  without  any  previous  information  on  the  subject, 
read  through  the  New  Testament,  he  would  never  get  the 
idea,  that  baptism  consisted  in  sprinkling.  He  would  find 
that  baptism,  in  all  the  cases  particularly  described,  was  ad- 
ministered in  rivers,  and  that  the  parties  are  represented  as 
going  down  into  the  water,  and  coming  up  out  of  the  water, 
which  they  would  not  have  been  so  foolish  as  to  do  for  the 
purpose  of  sprinkling. 

In  regard  to  the  word  itself  which  is  translated  bapfism, 
a  very  little  search  convinced  me  that  its  plain,  appropriate 
meaning  was  immersion  or  dipping  ;  and  though  I  read  ex- 
tensively on  the   subject,  I  could   not  find  that  any  learned 


CHANGE    OF    VIEWS    ON    BAPTISM.  103 

Pedobaptist  had  ever  been  able  to  produce  an  instance,  from 
any  Greek  writer,  in  which  it  meant  sprinkling,  or  any  thing 
but  immersion,  except  in  some  figurative  applications,  which 
could  not  be  fairly  brought  into  the  question.  The  Rev.  Pro- 
fessor Campbell,  D.  D.,  of  Scotland,  the  most  learned  Greek 
scholar  and  biblical  critic  of  modern  times,  has  the  candor  to 
declare,  (though  he  was  no  Baptist,  and,  therefore,  not  to  be 
suspected  of  partiality  to  the  Baptist  system,)  that  the  word 
was  never,  so  far  as  he  knew,  employed  in  the  sense  of  sprin- 
khng,  in  any  use,  sacred  or  classical.  (See  his  note  on  Matt, 
iii.  11.) 

But  as  my  limits  will  not  permit  me  to  enter  further  into 
detail  on  this  part  of  the  subject,  I  must  beg  leave  to  refer 
you  to  my  sermon,  a  copy  of  which  will  accompany  this  letter. 
Suffice  it  to  say,  that  w^hereas  a  consideration  of  the  nature  of 
the  church  convinced  me,  that  I  had  never  received  Christian 
baptism,  so  a  consideration  of  the  nature  of  baptism  convinced 
me,  that  I  had  never  been  baptized  at  all,  nothing  being  bap- 
tism but  immersion. 

Reduced  to  this  extremity,  what,  dear  brethren,  could  I  do  ? 
I  saw  that,  in  a  double  sense,  I  was  unbaptized,  and  I  felt  the 
command  of  Christ  press  on  my  conscience.  Now,  if  I  quieted 
ray  conscience  in  regard  to  my  own  personal  baptism,  and 
concluded  that,  on  account  of  my  peculiar  circumstances,  it 
was  best  to  consult  my  own  convenience,  rather  than  the  com- 
mand of  Christ,  still  the  question  would  return,  with  redoubled 
force.  How  am  I  to  treat  the  children  and  domestics  of  con- 
verted heathen  ?  This  was  the  beginning  of  all  my  difficul- 
ties, and  this,  on  Pedobaptist  principles,  I  could  not  resolve  by 
the  Bible,  or  by  any  books  that  I  consulted. 

In  order  that  you  may  feel  the  trying  situation  in  which  I 
was  placed,  I  beg  you  to  make  the  case  your  own,  particularly 
in  regard  to  tliis  one  point  —  the  treatment  of  the  families  of 
believers.  You  may  tlms  be  brought  to  feel  the  gripe  of  iln's 
Gordian  knot,  as  I  have  felt  it.  It  is  true  you  have  not  the 
prospect  of  converted  heathen  and  their  families  to  trouble 
you ;  yet  permit  me  to  submit  the  case  of  your  own  families. 


104 


MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 


In  what  light  do  you  consider  and  treat  them  ?  Do  you  strictly 
comply  with  the  terms  of  the  Abrahamic  covenant  ?  Does 
your  conduct  perfectly  accord  with  the  Abrahamic  system  ? 
Do  you  baptize  (if  baptism  is  in  the  place  of  circumcision) 
your  male  children,  and  those  only,  on  the  eighth  day  after 
their  birth  ?  Do  you  baptize  your  male  domestics  ?  and  if  you 
had  slaves,  would  you  have  them  also  baptized  ?  Still  further, 
Do  you  consider  your  baptized  children  and  servants  members 
of  the  church,  as  circumcised  Jewish  children  and  servants 
were  members  of  the  Jewish  church  ?  Do  you  acknowledge 
their  right  to  the  Lord's  supper,  as  soon,  at  least,  as  they  are 
capable?  and  do  you  feel  your  own  obligations  to  require  their 
attendance,  and  to  discipline  and  exclude  them  if  they  do  not 
attend?  Circumcision  was  the  initiating  ordinance  of  the 
Abrahamic  or  Jewish  church.  Baptism  has  been  regarded 
in  every  age,  and  by  all  parties,  as  the  initiating  ordinance  of 
the  Christian  church.  Baptized  persons  are,  therefore,  mem- 
bers of  the  church.  And  if  so,  is  it  not  wrong  and  dangerous 
to  treat  them  as  if  they  were  not  ?  I  need  not  inform  you, 
that  among  yourselves,  and  among  all  the  Congregational 
churches  in  New  England,  children  and  servants,  who  were 
baptized  on  account  of  the  head  of  their  family,  are  considered 
no  more  members  of  the  church  than  before  —  no  more  mem- 
bers of  the  church  than  others  that  have  not  been  baptized. 
They  are,  in  fact,  considered  and  treated  as  out  of  the  church 
altogether,  and  as  having  no  right  to  any  further  church  privi- 
lege, until  they  give  evidence  of  possessing  religion,  and  make 
a  personal  pubhc  profession.  Do  you  not  hesitate,  my  breth- 
ren, at  pursuing  a  course  so  anti-Abrahamic,  so  unscriptural  ? 
How  can  you  plead  the  promises  made  to  Abraham,  when  you 
so  flagrantly  violate  the  covenant  in  which  they  are  contained, 
and  depart  from  the  course  divinely  prescribed  in  his  family, 
and  in  subsequent  generations  ?  But,  on  the  other  hand,  if 
you  adopt  and  practise  the  Abrahamic  system,  you  will  inev- 
itably confound  the  church  and  the  world ;  you  will  receive 
into  the  church  multitudes  who  are  destitute  of  those  qualifica- 
tions which  are  represented  in  the  New  Testament  as  requi- 


CHANGE    OF    VIEWS    ON    BAPTISM.  105 

site  to  constitute  a  member  of  the  kingdom  which  Christ  set 
up  ;  you  will  ultimately  establish  a  national  religion  ;  and  this 
will  be  as  contrary  to  the  system  laid  down  in  the  New  Tes- 
tament as  your  present  system  is  to  the  Abrahamic. 

The  extracts  which  follow  from  the  letters  of  Mrs. 
Judson  exhibit  the  manner  in  which  she  and  jVIr. 
Judson  pursued  their  inquiries,  and  the  loneliness 
into  which  their  change  of  opinions  by  necessity 
plunged  them. 

From  Mrs.  Judson  to  a  Friend. 

September  7,  1812. 

Can  you,  my  dear  Nancy,  still  love  me,  still  desire  to  hear 
from  me,  when  I  tell  you  I  have  become  a  Baptist  ?  If  I 
judge  from  my  own  feelings,  I  answer,  you  will,  and  that  my 
differing  from  you  in  those  things  which  do  not  aflfect  our  sal- 
vation wdll  not  diminish  your  affection  for  me,  or  make  you 
unconcerned  for  my  welfare.  You  may,  perhaps,  think  this 
change  very  sudden,  as  I  have  said  nothing  of  it  before  ;  but, 
my  dear  girl,  this  alteration  hath  not  been  the  work  of  an 
hour,  a  day,  or  a  month.  The  subject  has  been  maturely, 
candidly,  and,  I  hope,  prayerfully  examined  for  months. 

An  examination  of  the  subject  of  baptism  commenced  on 
board  the  Caravan.  As  Mr.  Judson  was  continuing  the 
translation  of  the  New  Testament,  which  he  began  in  America, 
he  had  many  doubts  respecting  the  meaning  of  the  word 
baptize.  This,  with  the  idea  of  meeting  the  Baptists  at 
Serampore,  when  he  would  wash  to  defend  his  own  sentiments, 
induced  a  more  thorough  examination  of  the  foundation  of  the 
Pedobaptist  system.  The  more  he  examined,  the  more  his 
doubts  increased  ;  and,  unwilling  as  he  was  to  admit  it,  he  was 
afraid  the  Baptists  were  right  and  he  wrong.  After  we 
arrived  at  Calcutta,  his  attention  was  turned  from  this  subject 
to  the  concerns  of  the  mission,  and  the  difficulties  with  gov- 
ernment. But  as  his  mind  was  still  uneasy,  he  again  renewed 
the  subject.     I  felt  afraid  he  would  become  a  Baptist,  and 


lOG  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

frequently  urged  the  unhappy  consequences  if  he  should. 
But  he  said  his  duty  compelled  him  to  satisfy  his  own  mind, 
and  embrace  those  sentiments  which  appeared  most  concordant 
with  Scripture.  I  always  took  the  Pedobaptist  side  in  rea- 
soning with  him,  even  after  I  was  as  doubtful  of  the  truth  of 
their  system  as  he.  We  left  Serampore  to  reside  in  Calcutta 
a  week  or  two,  before  the  arrival  of  our  brethren  ;  and  as  we 
had  nothing  in  particular  to  occupy  our  attention,  we  confined 
it  exclusively  to  this  subject.  We  procured  the  best  authors 
on  both  sides,  compared  them  with  the  Scriptures,  examined 
and  reexamined  the  sentiments  of  Baptists  and  Pedobaptists, 
and  were  finally  compelled,  from  a  conviction  of  truth,  to  em- 
brace those  of  the  former.  Thus,  my  dear  Nancy,  we  are 
confirmed  Baptists,  not  because  we  wished  to  be,  but  because 
truth  compelled  us  to  be.  We  have  endeavored  to  count  the 
cost,  and  be  prepared  for  the  many  severe  trials  resulting  from 
this  change  of  sentiment.  We  anticipate  the  loss  of  reputa- 
tion, and  of  the  affection  and  esteem  of  many  of  our  Ameri- 
can friends.  But  the  most  trying  circumstance  attending  this 
change,  and  that  which  has  caused  most  pain,  is  the  separation 
which  must  take  place  between  us  and  our  dear  missionary 
associates.  Although  we  are  attached  to  each  other,  and 
should  doubtless  live  very  happily  together,  yet  the  brethren 
do  not  think  it  best  we  should  unite  in  one  mission.  These 
things,  my  dear  Nancy,  have  caused  us  to  weep  and  pour  out 
our  hearts  in  prayer  to  Him  whose  directions  we  so  much 
wish  and  need.  We  feel  that  we  are  alone  in  the  world,  with 
no  real  friend  but  each  other,  no  one  on  whom  we  can  depend 
but  God. 

From  Mrs.  Judson  to  her  Parents. 
Isle  of  France,  Pobt  Louis,  February  14,  1813. 
I  will  now,  my  dear  parents  and  sisters,  give  you  some 
account  of  our  change  of  sentiment,  relative  to  the  subject  of 
baptism.  Mr.  Judson's  doubts  commenced  on  our  passage  from 
America.  While  translating  the  New  Testament,  in  which  he 
was  engaged,  he  used  frequently  to  say  that  the  Baptists  were 


CHANGE    OF    VIEWS    ON    BAPTISM.  107 

right  in  their  mode  of  administering  the  ordinance.  Knowing 
he  should  meet  the  Baptists  at  Serampore,  he  felt  it  important 
to  attend  to  it  more  closely,  to  be  able  to  defend  his  sentiments. 
After  our  arrival  at  Serampore,  his  mind  for  two  or  three 
weeks  was  so  much  taken  up  with  missionary  inquiries  and 
our  difficulties  with  government,  as  to  prevent  his  attending  to 
the  subject  of  baptism.  But  as  we  were  waiting  the  arrival 
of  our  brethren,  and  having  nothing  in  particular  to  attend  to, 
he  again  took  up  the  subject.  I  tried  to  have  him  give  it  up, 
and  rest  satisfied  in  his  old  sentiments,  and  frequently  told  him, 
if  he  became  a  Baptist,  I  would  not.  He,  however,  said  he 
felt  it  his  duty  to  examine  closely  a  subject  on  which  he  had 
so  many  doubts.  After  we  removed  to  Calcutta,  he  found  in 
the  library  in  our  chamber  many  books  on  both  sides,  which 
he  determined  to  read  candidly  and  prayerfully,  and  to  hold 
fast,  or  embrace  the  truth,  however  mortifying,  however  great 
the  sacrifice.  I  now  commenced  reading  on  the  subject,  with 
all  my  prejudices  on  the  Pedobaptist  side.  We  had  with 
us  Dr.  Worcester's,  Dr.  Austin's,  Peter  Edwards's,  and  other 
Pedobaptist  writings.  But  after  closely  examining  the  sub- 
ject for  several  weeks,  we  were  constrained  to  acknowledge 
that  the  truth  appeared  to  lie  on  the  Baptists'  side.  It  was 
extremely  trying  to  reflect  on  the  consequences  of  our  becom- 
ing Baptists.  We  knew  it  would  wound  and  grieve  our  dear 
Christian  friends  in  America  —  that  we  should  lose  their  ap- 
probation and  esteem.  We  thought  it  probable  the  commis- 
sioners would  refuse  to  support  us  ;  and,  what  was  more  dis- 
tressing than  any  thing,  we  knew  we  must  be  separated  from 
our  missionary  associates,  and  go  alone  to  some  heathen  land. 
These  things  were  very  trying  to  us,  and  caused  our  hearts  to 
bleed  for  anguish.  We  felt  we  had  no  home  in  this  world, 
and  no  friend  but  each  other.  Our  friends  at  Serampore  were 
extremely  surprised  when  we  wrote  them  a  letter  requesting 
baptism,  as  they  had  known  nothing  of  our  having  had  any 
doubts  on  the  subject.  We  were  baptized  on  the  6th  of  Sep- 
tember, in  the  Baptist  chapel  in  Calcutta.  Mr.  J.  preached  a 
sermon  at  Calcutta,  on  this  subject,  soon  after  we  were  bap- 


108  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSOX. 

tized,  which,  in  compliance  with  the  request  of  a  number  who 
heard  it,  he  has  been  preparing  for  the  press.  Brother  Rice 
was  baptized  several  weeks  after  we  were.  It  was  a  very 
great  relief  to  our  minds  to  have  him  join' Us,  as  we  expected 
to  be  entirely  alone  in  a  mission. 

The  day  after  her  baptism,  she  wrote  to  her  parents 
a  further  account  of  the  progress  of  their  inquiries  on 
the  subject,  and  mentions  some  additional  particulars. 

Mr.  Judson  resolved  to  examine  it  candidly  and  prayerfully, 
let  the  result  be  what  it  would.  No  one  in  the  mission  family 
knew  the  state  of  his  mind,  as  they  never  conversed  with  any 
of  us  on  this  subject.  I  was  very  fearful  he  would  become  a 
Baptist,  and  frequently  suggested  the  unhappy  consequences 
if  he  should.  He  always  answered,  that  his  duty  compelled 
him  to  examine  the  subject,  and  he  hoped  he  should  have  a 
disposition  to  embrace  the  truth,  though  he  paid  dear  for  it. 
I  always  took  the  Pedobaptists'  side  in  reasoning  with  him, 
although  I  was  as  doubtful  of  the  truth  of  their  system  as  he. 
After  we  came  to  Calcutta,  he  devoted  his  whole  time  to  read- 
ing on  this  subject,  having  obtained  the  best  authors  on  both 
sides.  After  having  examined  and  reexamined  the  subject,  in 
every  way  possible,  and  comparing  the  sentiments  of  both 
Baptists  and  Pedobaptists  with  the  Scriptures,  he  was  com- 
pelled, from  a  conviction  of  the  truth,  to  embrace  those  of  the 
former.  I  confined  my  attention  almost  entirely  to  the  Scrip- 
tures, comparing  the  Old  with  the  New  Testament,  and  tried 
to  find  something  to  favor  infant  baptism,  but  was  convinced  it 
had  no  foundation  there.  I  examined  the  covenant  of  cir- 
cumcision, and  could  see  no  reason  for  concluding  that  baptism 
was  to  be  administered  to  children  because  circumcision  was. 
Thus,  my  dear  parents  and  sisters,  we  are  both  confirmed 
Baptists,  not  because  we  wished  to  be,  but  because  truth  com- 
pelled us  to  be.  A  renunciation  of  our  former  sentiments  has 
caused  us  more  pain  than  any  thing  which  ever  happened  to 
us  through  our  Uves. 

As  soon  as  Mr.  Judson  had  come  to  the  conclusion 


CHANGE    OF    VIEWS    ON    BAPTISM.  109 

indicated  in  the  preceding  letters,  he  of  course  in- 
formed the  American  Board  of  Commissioners  for 
Foreign  Missions  of  his  change  of  sentiment  on  the 
subject  of  baptism.  By  the  same  conveyance,  he  also 
communicated  a  knowledge  of  the  facts  to  some  of 
the  Baptist  clergymen  in  Boston  and  Salem.  The 
following  letters  refer  to  this  portion  of  our  nar- 
rative :  — 

To  the  Rev.  Dr.  Baldwin,  of  Boston. 

Calcutta,  August  31,  1812. 
Rev.  and  dear  Sir  :  I  write  you  a  line  to  express  my 
grateful  acknowledgments  to  you  for  the  advantage  I  have 
derived  from  your  publications  on  baptism  ;  particularly  from 
your  "  Series  of  Letters  ;  "  also  to  introduce  the  following 
copy  of  a  letter  which  I  forwarded  last  week  to  the  Baptist 
missionaries  at  Serarapore,  and  which  you  are  at  liberty  to 
use  as  you  think  best. 

I  am,  sir,  with  much  affection  and  respect. 

Your  obliged  friend  and  servant, 

Adoxiram  Judson,  Jr. 

Calcutta,  August  27,  1812. 
To  THE  Rev.  Messrs.  Carey,  Marshman,  and  Ward. 

As  you  have  been  ignorant  of  the  late  exercises  of  my  mind  on 
the  subject  of  baptism,  the  communication  which  I  am  about  to 
make  may  occasion  you  some  surprise. 

It  is  now  about  four  months  since  I  took  the  subject  into  serious 
and  prayerful  consideration.  My  inquiries  commenced  during  my 
passage  from  America,  and  after  much  laborious  research  and  pain- 
ful trial,  which  I  shall  not  now  detail,  have  issued  in  entire  convic- 
tion, that  the  immersion  of  a  professing  believer  is  the  only  Christian 
baptism. 

In  these  exercises  I  have  not  been  alone.  Mrs.  Judson  has  been 
engaged  in  a  similar  examination,  and  has  come  to  the  same  con- 
clusion. Feeling,  therefore,  that  we  are  in  an  unbaptized  state,  we 
wish  to  profess  our  faith  in  Christ  by  being  baptized  in  obedience  to 
his  sacred  commands. 

Adoniram  Jddso:s,  Jr. 

VOL.    I.  10 


110  MEMOIR    OF   DR.    JUDSON. 

Calcutta,  September  1,  1812. 
Rev.  Sir  :  After  transmitting  to  the  Rev.  Dr.  Worcester 
a  copy  of  the  above  letter  to  the  Baptist  missionaries,  I  have, 
under  date  of  tliis  day,  written  him  as  follows :  — 

Rev.  and  dear  Sir  :  My  change  of  sentiments  on  the  subject 
of  baptism  is  considered  by  my  missionary  brethren  as  incompati- 
ble with  my  continuing  their  fellow-laborer  in  the  mission  which 
they  contemplate  on  the  Island  of  Madagascar ;  and  it  will,  I  pre- 
sume, be  considered  by  the  Board  of  Commissioners  as  equally  in- 
compatible with  my  continuing  their  missionary.  The  board  will, 
undoubtedly,  feel  as  unwilling  to  support  a  Baptist  missionary  as  I 
feel  to  comply  with  their  instructions,  which  particularly  direct  us 
to  baptize  "  credible  believers  ivith  their  households.''^ 

The  dissolution  of  my  connection  with  the  Board  of  Commission- 
ers, and  a  separation  from  my  dear  missionary  brethren,  I  consider 
most  distressing  consequences  of  my  late  change  of  sentiments,  and 
indeed,  the  most  distressing  events  which  have  ever  befallen  me. 
I  have  now  the  prospect  before  me  of  going  alone  to  some  distant 
island,  unconnected  with  any  society  at  present  existing,  from 
which  I  might  be  furnished  with  assistant  laborers  or  pecuniary 
support.  Whether  the  Baptist  churches  in  America  will  compas- 
sionate my  situation,  I  know  not.  I  hope,  therefore,  that  while  my 
friends  condemn  what  they  deem  a  departure  from  the  truth,  they 
will  at  least  pity  me  and  pray  for  me. 

With  the  same  sentiments  of  affection  and  respect  as  ever, 
I  am,  sir,  your  friend  and  servant, 

Adoniram  Judson,  Jr. 
Bev.  Dr.  Worcester,  Corresponding  Secretary  of  the  American 

Board  of  Commissioners  for  Foreign  Missions. 

You  will  receive  a  letter  from  Dr.  Marshman,  accompanying 
this.  Should  there  be  formed,  in  accordance  with  the  ideas 
suggested  therein,  a  Baptist  society  for  the  support  of  a  mis- 
sion in  these  parts,  /  shall  be  ready  to  consider  myself  their 
missionary  ;  and  remain,  dear  sir. 

Your  obliged  friend  and  servant, 

Adoniram  Judson,  Jr. 


APPEALS    TO    AMERICAN    BAPTISTS.  Ill 

To  the  Rev.  Dr.  Bolles,  Salem,  Mass. 

Calcutta,  September  1,  1812. 

Rev.  Sir  :  I  recollect  that,  during  a  short  interview  I  had 
with  you  in  Salem,  I  suggested  the  formation  of  a  society 
among  the  Baptists  in  America  for  the  support  of  foreign 
missions,  in  imitation  of  the  exertions  of  your  English  breth- 
ren. Little  did  I  then  expect  to  be  personally  concerned  in 
such  an  attempt. 

Within  a  few  months,  I  have  experienced  an  entire  change 
of  sentiments  on  the  subject  of  baptism.  My  doubts  concern- 
ing the  correctness  of  my  former  system  of  belief  commenced 
during  my  passage  from  America  to  this  country ;  and  after 
many  painful  trials,  which  none  can  know  but  those  who  are 
taught  to  relinquish  a  system  in  which  they  had  been  edu- 
cated, I  settled  down  in  the  full  persuasion  that  the  immersion 
of  a  professing  believer  in  Christ  is  the  only  Christian 
baptism. 

Mrs.  Judson  is  united  with  me  in  this  persuasion.  We  have 
signified  our  views  and  wishes  to  the  Baptist  missionaries 
at  Serampore,  and  expect  to  be  baptized  in  this  city  next 
Lord's  day. 

A  separation  from  my  missionary  brethren,  and  a  dissolution 
of  my  connection  with  the  Board  of  Commissioners,  seem  to 
be  necessary  consequences.  The  missionaries  at  Serampore 
are  exerted  to  the  utmost  of  their  ability  in  managing  and 
supporting  their  extensive  and  complicated  mission. 

Under  these  circumstances  I  look  to  you.  Alone,  in  this 
foreign  heathen  land,  I  make  my  appeal  to  those  whom,  with 
their  permission,  I  will  call  my  Baptist  brethren  m  the  United 
States. 

With  the  advice  of  the  brethren  at  Serampore,  I  am  con- 
templating a  mission  on  one  of  the  eastern  islands.  They 
have  lately  sent  their  brother  Chater  to  Ceylon,  and  their 
brother  Robinson  to  Java.  At  present,  Amboyna  seems  to 
present  the  most  favorable  opening.  Fifty  thousand  souls  are 
there  perishing  without  the  means  of  life ;  and  the  situation  of 
the  island  is  such  that  a  mission  there  established  might,  with 


112  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

the  blessing  of  God,  be  extended  to  the  neighboring  islands  in 
those  seas. 

But  should  I  go  thither,  it  is  a  most  painful  reflection  that  I 
must  go  alone,  and  also  uncertain  of  the  means  of  support. 
But  I  will  trust  in  God.  He  has  frequently  enabled  me  to 
praise  his  divine  goodness,  and  will  never  forsake  those  who 
put  their  trust  in  him.     I  am,  dear  sir, 

Yours,  in  the  Lord  Jesus, 

Adoniram  Judson,  Jr. 


Extract  of  a  Letter  from  Dr.  Marshman,  of  Serampore,  to  Rev.  Dr.  Bald- 
win, of  Boston,  dated  September  1,  1812. 

A  note  which  brother  Judson  sent  to  brother  Carey  last 
Saturday  has  occasioned  much  reflection  among  us.  '  In  it  he 
declares  his  belief  that  believers'  baptism  alone  is  the  doctrine 
of  the  Scriptures,  and  requests  to  be  baptized  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord  Jesus. 

This  unexpected  circumstance  seems  to  suggest  many  ideas. 
The  change  in  the  young  man's  mind,  respecting  this  ordinance 
of  Christ,  seems  quite  the  effect  of  divine  truth  operating  on 
the  mind.  It  began  when  no  Baptist  was  near,  (on  board 
ship,)  and  when  he,  in  the  conscientious  discharge  of  his  duty, 
was  examining  the  subject  in  order  to  maintain  what  he  then 
deemed  truth  on  his  arrival  in  Bengal.  And  so  carefully  did 
he  conceal  the  workings  of  his  mind  from  us,  on  his  arrival, 
that  he  scarcely  gave  us  a  hint  respecting  them  before  he  sent 
this  note  to  brother  Carey.  This  was  not  indeed  very  diffi- 
cult for  him  to  do,  as  we  make  it  a  point  to  guard  against 
obtruding  on  missionary  brethren  of  different  sentiments  any 
conversation  relative  to  baptism. 

This  change  then,  which  I  believe  few  who  knew  brother 
Judson  will  impute  to  whim,  or  to  any  thing  besides  sincere 
conviction,  seems  to  point  out  something  relative  to  the  duty  of 
our  Baptist  brethren  with  you,  as  it  relates  to  the  cause  of 
missions.  It  can  scarcely  be  expected  that  the  Board  of 
Commissioners  will  support  a  Baptist  missionary,  who  cannot, 


APPEALS    TO    AMERICAN    BAPTISTS.  113 

of  course,  comply  with  their  instructions,  and  baptize  whole 
households  on  the  parents'  faith  ;  and  it  is  certain  that  the 
young  man  ought  not  to  be  left  to  perish  for  want,  merely 
because  he  loved  the  truth  more  than  father  or  mother ;  nor  be 
compelled  to  give  up  missionary  work  for  want  of  support 
therein.  Now,  though  we  should  certainly  interfere  to  pre- 
vent a  circumstance  like  this  happening,  particularly  as  we 
have  given  our  Pedobaptist  brother  Newell,  gone  to  the  Isle  of 
France,  an  order  to  draw  there  upon  us  should  he  be  in  distress, 
yet,  to  say  nothing  of  the  missionary  concerns  already  lying  on 
us,  and  constantly  enlarging,  it  seems  as  though  Providence 
itself  were  raising  up  this  young  man,  that  you  might  at  least 
partake  of  the  zeal  of  our  Congregational  missionary  brethren 
around  you.  I  would  wish,  then,  that  you  should  share  in  the 
glorious  work,  by  supporting  him.  Let  us  do  whatsoever 
things  are  becoming^  and  whatsoever  things  are  lovely,  and 
leave  the  reverse  of  these  for  others.  After  God  has  thus 
given  you  a  missionary  of  your  own  nation,  faith,  and  order, 
without  the  help  or  knowledge  of  man,  let  me  entreat  you, 
and  Dr.  Messer,  and  brethren  Bolles  and  Moriarty,  humbly 
to  accept  the  gift. 

To  you  I  am  sure  I  need  add  no  more  than  to  beg  you  to 
give  my  cordial  love  to  all  our  brethren  around  you. 

I  may  probably  write  you  again  soon,  and  in  the  mean  time 
remain  yours,  in  the  Lord, 

Joshua  Marshman. 


The  preceding  extracts  exhibit  the  condition  of  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Judson  in  Calcutta  as  by  no  means  encour- 
aging. At  a  great  sacrifice  of  feeling,  they  had  found 
themselves  obliged  to  pursue  a  course  which  separated 
them  as  missionaries  from  the  board  on  which  they 
relied  solely  for  support.  They  knew  that  no  Baptist 
organization  existed  at  home  adequate  to  undertake 
a  mission  to  the  East ;  and,  moreover,  they  were 
10* 


114  MEMOIR    OF    DR.  JUDSON. 

personally  almost  unknown  to  the  Baptist  community. 
The  brethren  at  Serampore  would,  of  course,  supply 
their  immediate  necessities  ;  but  they  were  decidedly 
of  opinion  that  the  responsibility  for  their  mainte- 
nance should  be  assumed  by  the  Baptists  in  America. 
Besides,  this  change  in  their  sentiments  rendered  it 
inexpedient  for  them  and  their  fellow-missionaries  to 
labor  any  longer  together.  Here,  again,  ties  the  most 
endearing  must  be  sundered,  and  hopes  the  most  cher- 
ished must  be  forever  abandoned.  One  circumstance, 
however,  tended  to  modify  the  loneliness  of  this  last 
trial.  Mr.  Rice,  who  was  ordained  at  the  same  time 
as  Mr.  Judson,  had  also  become  a  Baptist,  and  was, 
of  course,  united  with  them  in  anxieties  and  hopes. 

But  this  was  only  a  part  of  their  present  trial.  It 
is  well  known  that,  at  this  period,  the  East  India 
Company  were  both  theoretically  and  practically  op- 
posed to  every  effort  for  the  evangelization  of  India. 
They  professed  to  believe,  and  charity  obliges  us  to 
suppose  that  they  did  believe,  that  the  preaching  of 
the  gospel  would  excite  the  Hindoos  to  rebellion.  It 
is  beyond  question  that  the  company  was  deriving 
large  revenues  directly  from  the  toleration,  not  to  say 
the  protection,  which  it  extended  to  the  idolatry  of 
the  Hindoos.  Whatever  may  have  been  their  reasons, 
they  had  determined,  by  all  the  means  in  their  power, 
to  resist  the  introduction  of  Christianity  among  the 
native  subjects  of  the  British  crown  in  Bengal. 

About  ten  days  after  the  arrival  of  Messrs.  Judson 
and  Newell,  they  were  summoned  to  Calcutta,  and 
an  order  was  read  to  them  requiring  them  immedi- 
ately to  leave  the  country  and  return  to  America. 
Nothing  could  be  more  fatal  to  their  most  dearly  cher- 
ished hopes  than  such  a  command.     They  petitioned 


COURSE    OF    THE    EAST    INDIA    COMPANY.  115 

for  leave  to  reside  in  some  other  part  of  India,  but 
were  prohibited  from  settling  in  any  part  of  the 
company's  territory,  or  in  any  of  its  dependencies. 
They  then  asked  leave  to  go  to  the  Isle  of  France. 
This  was  granted ;  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Newell  em- 
barked for  Port  Louis  about  the  1st  of  August.  The 
vessel  could,  however,  carry  but  two  passengers  ;  and 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Judson  and  Mr.  Rice  were  obliged  to 
remain  behind. 

They  had  resided  in  Calcutta  about  two  months, 
waiting  for  a  passage,  when  they  received  a  peremp- 
tory order  to  proceed  to  England  in  one  of  the  com- 
pany's ships.  A  petty  officer  accompanied  Messrs. 
Judson  and  Rice  to  their  place  of  residence,  and 
requested  them  not  to  leave  it  without  permission. 
Their  names  were  inserted  in  the  daily  papers  in  a  list 
of  passengers  of  the  ship  in  which  they  were  ordered 
to  sail.  A  vessel  was  then  found  about  to  proceed  to 
the  Isle  of  France  ;  but  they  were  forbidden  to  take 
passage  in  her.  They  communicated  to  the  captain 
their  circumstances,  and  asked  if  he  would  venture  to 
take  them  without  a  pass.  He  replied  that  he  would 
be  neutral ;  there  was  his  ship,  and  they  might  do  as 
they  pleased. 

They  succeeded  in  getting  on  board  the  ship  with- 
out being  discovered,  and  the  vessel  sailed.  After 
they  had  proceeded  down  the  river  for  tw^o  days,  they 
were  overtaken  by  a  government  despatch  forbidding 
the  pilot  to  go  farther,  as  the  vessel  contained  passen- 
gers who  had  been  ordered  to  England. 

They  were  thus  obliged  to  leave  the  ship.  Every  ef- 
fort was  made  to  procure  a  remission  of  the  order,  but 
in  vain.  An  attempt  to  procure  a  passage  to  Ceylon 
failed.   After  spending  several  days  in  fruitless  attempts 


116  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

to  escape  the  necessity  of  proceeding  to  England, 
when  every  hope  had  failed,  a  letter  was  put  into  Mr. 
Judson's  hand  containing  a  pass  from  the  magistrate 
for  a  passage  in  the  Creole,  the  vessel  which  they  had 
left.  To  whose  kindness  they  were  indebted  for  this 
favor  they  never  ascertained.  It  was  three  days  since 
the  Creole  had  left  them  ;  and  there  was  every  reason 
to  suppose  that  she  had  gone  to  sea.  They,  however, 
immediately  set  out  in  pursuit  of  her.  After  twenty- 
four  hours  of  rowing  and  sailing,  they  reached  Saugur, 
where  they  found  the  Creole  at  anchor.  They  were 
taken  on  board ;  and  thus  ended  their  first  experiences 
of  the  East  India  Company's  government  in  India.* 

I  mention  these  facts  because  they  form  a  part  of 
the  narrative  which  I  have  undertaken  to  write.  I  do 
it  with  pain,  for  it  presents  in  an  unamiable  light 
distinguished  men  whose  characters  we  are  accus- 
tomed to  look  upon  with  respect  and  esteem.  It  is 
delightful,  however,  to  record  the  change  which  has 
taken  place  in  the  administration  of  the  government 
of  India,  and  in  the  treatment  of  the  missionaries  of 
all  nations  by  the  officers  of  the  British  crown.  Gen- 
tlemen of  the  army  and  the  navy,  civil  residents,  and 
ambassadors,  have  for  many  years  extended  to  mis- 
sionaries from  this  country  every  aid  which  their  cir- 
cumstances required,  and  have  frequently  ministered 
to  them  in  sickness  and  affliction  with  a  spirit  of 
fraternal  kindness  which  has  brought  tears  of  gratitude 
into  the  eyes  of  thousands  of  Christians  in  America. 
It  was  not  many  years  after  the  events  which  I  have 
recorded  that  Mr.  Judson  was  employed  in  a  confi- 
dential service  by  the   British   government  in   nego- 

*  A  more  detailed  account  of  tlicse  painful  experiences  may  be 
found  in  Knowlcs's  Life  of  Mrs.  Ann  H.  Judson. 


ESCAPE  TO  THE  ISLE  OF  FRANCE.         117 

tiating  the  treaty  of  Yandabo,  and  for  his  services  re- 
ceived, I  believe,  the  thanks  of  the  governor  general 
in  council.  No  missionary  of  any  denomination  was 
more  highly  esteemed  than  he  in  Calcutta ;  in  no 
other  place  did  his  death  call  forth  more  general 
lamentation  ;  and  nowhere  else  have  such  spontane- 
ous and  liberal  offerings  been  made  in  behalf  of  his 
widow  and  orphans. 

On  the  30th  of  November,  1812,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Jud- 
son  and  Mr.  Rice,  fleeing  from  the  intolerance  of  the 
East  India  Company,  embarked  on  board  the  Belle 
Creole,  bound  for  Port  Louis,  in  the  Isle  of  France. 
The  passage  was  long  and  tempestuous.  There  were 
four  passengers  besides  the  missionaries  ;  but  none  of 
them  manifested  any  interest  in  religion.  On  the  17th 
of  January  they  arrived  at  Port  Louis. 

They  here  met  with  a  heavy  affliction.  Mrs. 
Newell,  the  intimate  friend  and  first  missionary  as- 
sociate of  Mrs.  Judson,  had  finished  her  course  on  the 
30th  of  the  preceding  November.  This  event  affected 
the  whole  company  very  deeply,  and  taught  them, 
more  emphatically  than  their  wandering  loneliness, 
that  here  they  had  no  continuing  city. 

Mr.  Rice  had  already  been  severely  attacked  with 
disease  of  the  liver,  and  his  health  had  become  quite 
precarious.  The  views  of  the  Baptists  in  this  country 
were  unknown  to  the  missionaries,  and  it  seemed  de- 
sirable that  some  direct  intercourse  miglit  be  com- 
menced between  the  parties  at  present  personally 
unknown  to  each  other.  It  was  probable,  moreover, 
that  the  labors  of  Mr.  Rice  might  be  eminently  useful 
in  awaking  a  missionary  spirit  among  the  churches  at 
home.  With  the  hope  of  recovering  his  health,  and 
at  the  same  time  accomplishing  these  objects,  it  was 


118  MEMOIR    OF   DE.   JUDSON. 

deemed  wise  for  Mr.  Rice  to  return  to  this  country. 
He  sailed  March  15,  1813,  for  New  York,  by  the  way 
of  St.  Salvador. 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Judson  were  now  left  alone  in  the 
Isle  of  France.  After  much  deliberation  they  decided 
to  attempt  the  establishment  of  a  mission  on  Pulo 
Penan g,  or  Prince  of  Wales  Island.  There  was  no 
opportunity  of  procuring  a  passage  thither  from  the 
Isle  of  France.  They  therefore,  after  a  residence  of 
three  months  at  Port  Louis,  determined  to  proceed  to 
Madras,  as  the  only  course  by  which  they  might  arrive 
at  their  destination. 

May  7,  1813,  they  embarked  in  the  Countess 
of  Harcourt,  for  Madras,  and  arrived  there  on  the 
4th  of  June.  They  were  hospitably  entertained  by 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Lovelace,  English  missionaries  residing 
there,  and  received  much  kindness  from  other  friends  of 
Christ  in  that  city.  Their  embarrassments,  however, 
were  by  no  means  diminished.  They  were  again 
under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  East  India  Company, 
from  which  they  had  lately  escaped.  Their  case  was 
immediately  reported  to  the  governor  general,  and 
no  doubt  existed  that  the  reply  to  the  despatch  would 
bring  an  order  for  their  immediate  transportation  to 
England.  No  vessel  for  Penang  was  in  the  harbor. 
Their  only  means  of  escape  was  by  a  vessel  bound  to 
Rangoon.  They  therefore,  on  the  22d  of  June,  em- 
barked on  board  the  Georgiana  for  that  port. 

The  vessel  was  old  and  un seaworthy.  Mrs.  Jud- 
son's  condition  required  the  aid  of  a  nurse.  A  female 
in  this  capacity  was  engaged  by  the  friends  in  Madras. 
A  few  hours  after  the  vessel  sailed,  this  woman 
dropped  dead  on  the  deck,  and  Mrs.  Judson  was 
obliged  to   pursue  the  voyage  without  either  female 


PASSAGES    TO    MADRAS    AND    RANGOON.  119 

attendant  or  medical  adviser;  and  the  captain  was 
the  only  individual  on  board  who  could  speak  English. 
The  passage  was  tempestuous,  and  Mrs.  Judson 
became  very  ill.  By  a  kind  Providence,  the  vessel 
was  driven  into  a  narrow  strait,  near  the  Andaman 
Islands,  out  of  the  reach  of  the  tempest.  Dr.  Judson 
always  believed  that,  but  for  this  merciful  interposition, 
Mrs.  Judson  would  never  have  survived  the  voyage. 
They  arrived  at  Rangoon  on  the  13th  of  July,  1813, 
and  made  their  first  home  in  Burmah  in  the  Baptist 
mission  house,  occupied  by  Felix  Carey.  Mr.  Judson's 
account  of  these  events  is  found  in  the  following  ex- 
tract of  a  letter  written  after  his  arrival  in  Rangoon  :  — 

A  slight  sketch  of  our  movements,  particularly  at  the  time 
of  our  coming  to  Rangoon,  I  now  submit.  After  a  mournful 
separation  from  brother  Rice,  at  the  Isle  of  France,  in  March, 
1813,  we  remained  there  about  two  months,  waiting  for  a 
passage  to  some  of  the  eastern  islands,  not  venturing  at  that 
time  to  think  a  mission  to  Burmah  practicable.  But  there 
being  no  prospect  of  accomplishing  our  wishes  directly,  we 
concluded  to  take  passage  to  Madras,  and  proceed  thence  as 
circumstances  should  direct.  We  arrived  there  in  June,  and 
were  immediately  informed  of  the  renewed  hostilities  of  the 
company's  government  towards  missionaries,  exhibited  in  their 
treatment  of  the  brethren  both  at  Serampore  and  Bombay. 
We  were,  of  course,  reported  to  the  police,  and  an  account  of 
our  arrival  forwarded  to  the  supreme  government  in  Bengal. 
It  became,  therefore,  a  moral  certainty  that,  as  soon  as  an  order 
could  be  received  at  Madras,  we  should  be  again  arrested,  and 
ordered  to  England.  Our  only  safety  appeared  to  consist  in 
escaping  from  Madras  before  such  order  should  arrive.  It 
may  easily  be  conceived  with  what  feelings  I  inquired  the 
destination  of  vessels  in  the  Madras  roads.  I  found  none 
that  would  sail  in  season,  but  one  bound  to  Rangoon.  A  mis- 
sion to  Rangoon  we  had  been  accustomed  to  regard  with  feel- 


120  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

ings  of  horror.  But  it  was  now  brought  to  a  point.  We  must 
either  venture  there  or  be  sent  to  Europe.  All  other  paths 
were  shut  up  ;  and  thus  situated,  though  dissuaded  by  all  our 
friends  at  Madras,  we  commended  ourselves  to  the  care  of 
God,  and  embarked  the  22d  of  June.  It  was  a  crazy  old 
vessel.  The  captain  was  the  only  person  on  board  that  could 
speak  our  language,  and  we  had  no  other  apartment  than  what 
was  made  by  canvas.  Our  passage  was  very  tedious.  Mrs. 
Judson  was  taken  dangerously  ill,  and  continued  so  until,  at 
one  period,  I  came  to  experience  the  awful  sensation  which 
necessarily  resulted  from  the  expectation  of  an  immediate 
separation  from  my  beloved  wife,  the  only  remaining  compan- 
ion of  my  wanderings.  About  the  same  time,  the  captain 
being  unable  to  make  the  Nicobar  Island,  where  it  was  intend- 
ed to  take  in  a  cargo  of  cocoa  nuts,  we  were  driven  into  a  dan- 
gerous strait,  between  the  Little  and  Great  Andamans,  two  sav- 
age coasts,  where  the  captain  had  never  been  before,  and  where, 
if  we  had  been  cast  ashore,  we  should,  according  to  all  accounts, 
have  been  killed  and  eaten  by  the  natives.  But  as  one  evil  is 
sometimes  an  antidote  to  another,  so  it  happened  with  us.  Our 
being  driven  into  this  dangerous  but  quiet  channel  brought 
immediate  relief  to  the  agitated  and  exhausted  frame  of  Mrs. 
Judson,  and  conduced  essentially  to  her  recovery.  And  in  the 
event,  we  were  safely  conducted  over  the  black  rocks  which 
we  sometimes  saw  in  the  gulf  below,  and  on  the  eastern  side 
of  the  islands  found  favorable  winds,  which  gently  wafted  us 
forward  to  Rangoon.  But  on  arriving  here,  other  trials 
awaited  us. 

We  had  never  before  seen  a  place  where  European  influ- 
ence had  not  contributed  to  smooth  and  soften  the  rough  fea- 
tures of  uncultivated  nature.  The  prospect  of  Rangoon,  as 
we  approached,  was  quite  disheartening.  I  went  on  shore, 
just  at  night,  to  take  a  view  of  the  place,  and  the  mission 
house  ;  but  so  dark,  and  cheerless,  and  unpromising  did  all 
things  appear,  that  the  evening  of  that  day,  after  my  return 
to  the  ship,  we  have  marked  as  the  most  gloomy  and  distress- 
ing that  we  ever  passed.     Instead  of  rejoicing,  as  we  ought  to 


ARRIVAL    AT    RANGOON.  121 

have  done,  in  having  found  a  heathen  land  from  which  we 
were  not  immediately  driven  away,  such  were  our  weaknesses 
that  we  felt  we  had  no  portion  left  here  below,  and  found 
consolation  only  in  looking  beyond  our  pilgrimage,  which  we 
tried  to  flatter  ourselves  would  be  short,  to  that  peaceful  region 
where  the  wicked  cease  from  troubling  and  the  weary  are  at 
rest.  But  if  ever  we  commended  ourselves  sincerely,  and 
without  reserve,  to  the  disposal  of  our  heavenly  Father,  it  was 
on  this  evening.  And  after  some  recollection  and  prayer,  we 
experienced  something  of  the  presence  of  Him  who  cleaveth 
closer  than  a  brother ;  something  of  that  peace  which  our 
Saviour  bequeathed  to  his  followers  —  a  legacy  which  we  know 
from  this  experience  endures  when  the  fleeting  pleasures  and 
unsubstantial  riches  of  the  world  are  passed  away.  The  next 
day  Mrs.  Judson  was  carried  into  the  town,  being  unable  to 
walk ;  and  we  found  a  home  at  the  mission  house,  though  Mr. 
Carey  was  absent  at  Ava. 

When  information  of  these  events  was  received  in 
this  country,  it  produced  an  impression  which,  at  the 
present  day,  can  hardly  be  realized.  As  I  have  re- 
marked before,  there  was  a  general  feeling  in  favor  of 
missions  throughout  the  Baptist  denomination.  The 
labors  and  successes  of  the  missionaries  at  Serampore 
were  well  known  among  the  churches.  The  names  of 
Carey,  Marshman,  and  Ward, in  India,  and  of  Fuller, 
Ryland,  and  Sutcliffe,  in  England,  were  familiar  to  us  as 
household  words.  Sums  of  money  were  contributed  oc- 
casionally by  benevolent  individuals.  There,  however, 
seemed  no  particular  point  to  which  our  efforts  could  be 
directed.  There  was  no  union  of  design.  There  was 
no  general  organization.  We  were  scattered  in  large 
numbers  over  the  different  states  of  the  Union.  Each 
separate  locality  had  its  association  ;  but  the  associa- 
tions had  no  bond  of  union  with  each  other,  except  by 
casual   correspondence.      We  knew   nothing  of   our 

VOL.  I.  11 


122  METMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

numbers,  and  were  scarcely  aware  in  all  points  of  the 
doctrinal  sentiments  embraced  by  the  chm'ches  in  differ- 
ent parts  of  our  country.  Ignorant  of  our  strength, 
and  unaware  of  the  reliance  which  we  could  place 
on  each  other,  we  were  unprepared  to  attempt  any 
important  enterprise,  for  we  knew  not  who  could  be 
relied  on  to  carry  it  forward. 

The  change  of  sentiment  in  Messrs.  Judson  and 
Rice  was  just  the  event  which  was  required  to  awaken 
the  dormant  energies  of  the  Baptists  in  America,  and 
concentrate  them  all,  in  every  part  of  our  country, 
upon  one  object,  truly  Christian  in  its  essence,  and 
yet  denominational  in  its  form.  It  was  universally 
acknowledged,  that  in  this  matter  the  providence  of 
God  had  left  us  no  option.  Not  to  enter  at  once  and 
vigorously  upon  the  work  of  missions,  would  be  to 
belie  our  profession  as  Christians,  and  expose  us  to 
the  merited  scorn  of  the  whole  religious  world. 

These  sentiments  led  to  universal  action.  Societies 
in  aid  of  foreign  missions  were  immediately  formed 
in  all  our  principal  cities,  and  liberal  contributions 
were  made  to  their  treasuries.  A  society  was  formed 
in  Boston,  named  the  Society  for  Propagating  the  Gos- 
pel in  India  and  other  Foreign  Parts,  which  at  once 
assumed  the  charge  of  the  support  of  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Judson.  But  the  same  want  of  confidence  in  ourselves 
existed  among  us,  as,  a  short  time  previously,  had 
been  manifested  in  our  Congregational  brethren.  We 
clung  to  the  English  Baptists,  and  desired  at  first  tha^ 
our  missionaries  should  be  connected  with  the  family  av 
Serampore.  Under  date  of  May  6,  1813,  Rev.  Daniei 
Sharp,  of  Boston,  wrote  to  Mr.  Judson  as  follows :  — 

Dear  Brother  :  By  the  arrival  of  the  Tartar,  in  January 
last,  we  received  the  intelligence  of  your  change  of  views  on 


SUPrORT    ASSUMED    BY    AMERICAN    BAPTISTS.  123 

the  subject  of  Christian  baptism,  and  also  intimations  of  your 
readiness  to  embark  in  a  mission  under  our  patronage,  should 
a  society  be  formed  among  the  Baptists  in  America  for  that 
purpose. 

Your  letters  excited  peculiar  emotions.  "We  considered  it  as 
the  voice  of  God  calling  us  to  the  formation  of  a  missionary 
society.  That  we  might  not,  however,  be  charged  with  acting 
prematurely,  or  be  considered  as  interfering  with  the  Board 
of  Commissioners,  we  ascertained  whether  they  intended  to 
continue  you  in  their  service  before  we  formally  decided  to 
engage  you  in  ours. 

Satisfied  on  inquiry  what  was  our  path  of  duty,  we  formed 
ourselves  into  a  society  for  propagating  the  gospel  in  India  and 
other  foreign  parts.  At  a  meeting  of  the  trustees,  we  unani- 
mously agreed  to  employ  you  as  our  missionary,  and  to  stand 
prepared  to  support  you  with  all  the  pecuniary  aid  we  can 
command. 

By  the  arrival  of  another  vessel,  we  have  heard  that  the 
Rev.  Mr.  Rice  entertains  the  same  sentiments  as  yourself  on 
the  subject  of  baptism.  This  event  gives  us  joy,  because  it 
must  add  much  to  your  comfort  in  a  foreign  land  to  have  a 
fellow-laborer  in  the  gospel.  The  board  have  not  met  since 
Mr.  Rice's  letter  was  received,  but  I  am  confident  that  he  will 
be  taken  under  their  care.  We  have  not  had  time  to  mature 
our  thoughts  so  as  to  say  with  decision  whether  it  would  be 
best  for  you  to  be  connected  with,  or  independent  of,  our 
brethren  at  Serampore. 

At  present  it  appears  to  us  that  a  connection  with  them 
would  most  subserve  the  interests  of  the  Redeemer's  kingdom 
in  India,  and  be  most  productive  of  happiness  to  yourselves. 
All  the  benefits  which  can  be  derived  from  union  with  men  of 
integrity,  disinterested  benevolence,  and  a  knowledge  of  the 
country,  growing  out  of  a  twenty  years'  experience,  Avould  ac- 
crue to  you  from  a  relation  with  them.  These  considerations 
induced  us  in  March  last  to  write  to  Mr.  Fuller,  of  Kettering, 
on  the  subject,  expressing  our  wishes  that  you  might  be  consid- 
ered as  belonging  to  the  mission  family  at  Serampore.     Should 


124  MEMOIR    OF    DR.   JUDSON. 

it  appear,  from  future  events,  more  desirable  that  you  should 
act  alone,  or  as  American  missionaries,  separately  from  the 
English  brethren,  then,  no  doubt,  we  shall  be  pleased  to  have 
it  so ;  but  our  present  sentiments  are,  that  you  had  better  act 
with  and  by  their  advice. 

In  behalf  of  the  society. 

Yours,  affectionately, 

Daniel  Sharp. 


The  letter  to  Andrew  Fuller  above  referred  to  is  as 
follows :  — 

Boston,  March  5,  1813. 

My  dear  Brother  :  We  have  lately  heard  with  pecuHar 
pleasure  of  the  arrival  of  your  missionary  brethren  *  at  Seram- 
pore.  The  same  vessel  brought  us  the  intelligence  that  Rev. 
Adoniram  Judson,  one  of  the  American  missionaries,  together 
with  his  wife,  had  experienced  a  change  of  views  on  the  sub- 
ject of  baptism,  and  had  expressed  a  desire  to  be  immersed  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus. 

This  intelligence  has  made  a  deep  impression  on  our  minds. 
"We  cannot  bear  that  our  brother  should  be  neglected,  or  left 
to  suffer  because  of  his  attachment  to  the  truth.  He  looks  to 
us  for  aid,  and  we  stand  ready  to  support  him.  We  have 
formed  a  society,  as  you  will  perceive  by  the  accompanying 
circular,  named  "  The  Baptist  Society  for  Propagating  the  Gos- 
pel in  India  and  other  Foreign  Parts." 

The  brethren  here,  however,  suppose  that  it  would  much 
more  advance  the  cause  of  Christ,  and  that  brother  Judson 
would  be  much"  more  useful  and  happy  in  the  missionary  ser- 
vice, if  he  were  intimately  connected  Avith,  and  under  the 
direction  of,  our  beloved  brethren  at  Serampore.  Their 
acquaintance  with  the  country,  the  manners,  prejudices,  and 
superstitions  of  the  people,  their  knowledge  of  the  missionary 

*  Messrs.  Johns  and  Lawson,  who  sailed  in  the  Harmony  from 
Philadelxjliia. 


GENERAL    MISSIONARY    ORGANIZATION.  125 

efforts,  likely,  with  the  blessing  of  God,  to  be  most  efficient,  a 
knowledge  the  result  of  twenty  years'  experience,  their  weight 
of  years,  their  unshaken  fortitude,  intense  zeal,  and  unques- 
tionable integrity,  and  their  disinterested  course  in  so  glorious 
a  cause,  render  it  very  desirable  that  our  brother  should  be 
considered  as  one  of  the  mission  family.  I  am  therefore 
requested,  in  behalf  of  the  newly-formed  society  in  Boston,  to 
solicit  that  Mr.  Judson  may  be  taken  into  the  society  of  the 
Baptist  brethren  in  India,  and  be  under  the  direction  of 
INIessrs.  Carey,  Marshman,  and  Ward,  and  also  be  entitled  to 
such  privileges  as  would  naturally  arise  from  such  a  coalition. 

We  shall  esteem  it  an  honor  and  a  pleasure  to  render  him 
the  pecuniary  aid  which  from  time  to  time  he  may  need.  In- 
deed, we  expect  that  our  exertions  will  not  be  limited  to  the 
support  of  our  American  brother,  but  that  we  shall  be  able  to 
forward  to  Serampore  a  willing  tribute  for  the  promotion  of  the 
general  cause. 

Wishing  you  every  blessing,  I  remain. 

Dear  sir,  yours,  very  affectionately, 

Daniel  Sharp. 

Rev.  Andrew  Fuller,  Sec.  Baptist  Mission  in  England. 

The  brethren  in  Serampore  and  in  England,  how- 
ever, took  a  much  wiser  view  of  this  subject.  They, 
with  every  manifestation  of  kindness  and  respect, 
declined  this  coalition,  and  advised  the  Baptists  in 
America  to  form  a  missionary  organization,  and  estab- 
lish missions  for  themselves.  Indeed,  had  this  course 
not  been  advised,  it  was  already  the  only  course  which 
could  have  been  pursued.  Residence  in  Serampore 
was  impossible.  Dr.  Sharp's  letter  to  Mr.  Judson  was 
dated  May  5.  On  the  13th  of  June  following,  Mr. 
Judson  landed  in  Rangoon,  and  thus  an  American 
mission  was  already  commenced. 

I  mentioned  that  missionary  societies  were  rapidly 
formed  in  most  of  our  cities  and  large  towns.  They 
11* 


126  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

were,  however,  destitute  of  any  bond  of  connection. 
It  became  at  once  evident  that  some  general  organi- 
zation, in  which  they  all  should  unite,  was  absolutely 
necessary.  Incipient  steps  towards  the  formation  of 
such  a  society  had  been  already  taken,  when  Mr.  Rice 
arrived  from  India.  He  was  immediately  requested  to 
visit  the  various  parts  of  the  country,  organize  socie- 
ties, and  promote  the  formation  of  a  general  asso- 
ciation. This  object  he  performed  with  eminent 
success.  Every  where  he  was  received  almost  with 
acclamation.  Societies  in  aid  of  the  cause  were 
formed  almost  at  his  bidding.  Contributions,  in 
amounts  unprecedented,  were  made  to  the  object. 
Christians  of  all  denominations  in  many  cases  ex- 
tended liberal  aid.  It  was  thus  soon  ascertained  that 
we  were  not  only  able  to  support  Mr.  Judson  and  his 
wife,  but  to  carry  on  missions  upon  a  somewhat 
liberal  scale. 

In  obedience  to  the  general  wish,  a  convention  was 
called  at  Philadelphia  of  delegates  from  the  various 
missionary  societies  which  had  thus  been  formed. 
The  delegates  appointed  for  this  purpose  assembled 
on  the  18th  of  May,  1814,  in  the  First  Baptist  Church 
in  that  city.  They  there  formed  the  "  General  Mis- 
sionary Convention  of  the  Baptist  Denomination  in 
the  United  States  of  America  for  Foreign  Missions." 
Under  this  name  the  Baptist  organization  for  foreign 
missions  was  known  until  the  year  1845.  At  that 
time,  the  brethren  in  the  Southern  States  having  felt 
it  to  be  their  duty  to  withdraw,  and  afterwards  to  form 
a  Southern  Convention,  it  was  found  desirable  to  adopt 
a  somewhat  different  organization.  On  the  20th  of 
November,  at  a  special  meeting  of  the  convention  in 
the  city  of  New  York,  a  new  constitution  was  unani- 


GENERAL    MISSIONARY    ORGANIZATION.  127 

moiisly  adopted,  and  the  organization  assumed  the 
name  of  the  "  American  Baptist  Missionary  Union." 
The  change  has  been  found  in  practice  to  have  been 
eminently  beneficial,  and  every  succeeding  year  has 
added  to  its  efficiency,  and  given  it  a  firmer  hold  upon 
the  affections  of  Baptists  in  the  United  States. 

Who  can  fail  to  observe  in  these  events  the  wonder- 
working: hand  of  omniscient  wisdom  ?  The  chancre  of 
sentiment  of  these  two  young  men,  in  respect  to  the 
administration  of  one  of  the  ordinances  of  the  Chris- 
tian church,  was  made  the  means  of  arousing  to  a 
conviction  of  their  duty  a  large  denomination  of 
Christians ;  nay,  more  than  this,  it  led  directly  to  an 
organization  in  which  all  their  efforts  could  be  con- 
centrated, so  that  their  united  power  might  be  em- 
ployed in  labors  to  evangelize  the  world.  The  mo- 
mentary irritation  which  the  change  occasioned  rapidly 
passed  away.  Baptists  and  Pedobaptists  delight  to 
aid  each  other-  in  these  labors  of  love.  Not  unfre- 
quently  are  they  seen  contributing  to  each  other's 
treasury.  At  their  monthly  concerts  they  communi- 
cate the  missionary  intelligence  from  both  societies, 
and  rejoice  with  unfeigned  joy  at  the  successes  of 
each  other.  Looking  at  the  results  which  have  taken 
place,  Congregationalists  are  delighted  to  remember 
that  brethren  sent  out  by  themselves  have  served  in  so 
remarkable  a  degree  the  cause  of  our  common  Lord. 
I  am  happy,  moreover,  to  add,  that  when,  after  an 
absence  of  thirty-three  years,  Dr.  Judson  visited  this 
country,  he  was  received  with  universal  kindness  and 
respect  by  his  Christian  brethren  of  all  denomina- 
tions ;  and  that  the  officers  of  the  "  American  Board  " 
especially  delighted  to  greet  him  as  a  "  brother 
beloved." 


CHAPTER     V. 

THE   BURMAN    EMriEE.  —  EXTENT.  —  KIVERS.  —  POPULATION.  — 
RESOURCES.  —  GOVERNMENT.  —  RELIGION. 

Mr.  Judson  and  his  wife  had  now  arrived  at  the 
scene  of  their  future  labors.  Before  proceeding  fur- 
ther, it  may  be  proper  to  present  a  brief  slvetch  of  the 
country  which  was  henceforth  to  be  their  home,  and  to 
delineate  the  character  of  the  people  to  whose  spiritual 
improvement  their  lives  were  to  be  so  earnestly  devoted. 

The  Burman  empire  occupies  that  extensive  region 
of  Eastern  India,  or  India  beyond  the  Ganges,  which 
lies  between  the  British  possessions  on  the  west  and 
Siam  and  China  on  the  east,  being  bounded  by  Thibet 
on  the  north,  and  the  Bay  of  Bengal  on  the  south. 
At  the  time  of  Mr.  Judson's  arrival,  its  extent  was 
considerably  greater  than  at  present-  Its  sea  coast 
then  stretched  from  the  southern  limits  of  the  prov- 
ince of  Chittagong  to  Junk  Ceylon,  at  the  southern 
extremity  of  the  Tenasserim  provinces.  It  thus  com- 
manded more  than  a  third  part  of  the  Bay  of  Bengal. 
Its  length  was  about  ten  hundred  and  twenty  miles, 
and  its  breadth  about  six  hundred. 

By  the  treaty  of  Yandabo,  the  Burmans  ceded  to 
Great  Britain  the  larger  part  of  their  territory  lying 
upon  the  sea  coast.  This  included  the  province  of 
Arracan  from  Chittagong  to  Cape  Negrais  on  the 
east,  and  the  Tenasserim  provinces  from  the  mouth 
of  the  Salwen  River  to  Junk  Ceylon.  Their  sea  coast 
is  now  bounded  by  Cape  Negrais  on  the  east,  and 
Martaban  on  the  west,  embracing  the  district  occu- 
pied by  the  numerous  mouths  of  the  Irrawadi  River. 

128 


KIVEKS    OF    BURMAII.  129 

Its  length  is  now  about  seven  hundred  and  twenty, 
and  its  breadth  about  four  hundred  miles.  Its  two 
principal  seaports  are  Rangoon  on  the  eastern,  and 
Bassein  on  the  western  branch  of  the  Irrawadi. 
Both  are  very  favorably  situated  for  commerce.  Ran- 
goon is  said  by  English  writers  to  possess  the  finest 
capabilities  of  any  port  in  the  Bay  of  Bengal. 

The  great  river  of  Burmah  is  the  Irrawadi,  which, 
rising  in  the  Chinese  province  of  Yunan,  with  the 
exception  of  a  flexure  to  the  west,  between  Ava  and 
Pugan,  pursues  a  course  almost  directly  south.  The 
Kyen  Dwen,  a  large  tributary  from  the  north,  unites 
with  it  at  Yandabo.  A  smaller  stream  from  the  east 
empties  into  it  at  Ava.  The  Salwen  River,  the  east- 
ern boundary  of  Burmah,  communicates  by  numerous 
branches  with  the  Irrawadi,  watering  the  interme- 
diate region,  and  opening  facilities  for  internal  navi- 
gation for  the  regions  which  occupy  the  central  part 
of  the  empire. 

The  Irrawadi  is  one  of  the  noblest  rivers  in  India. 
In  the  rainy  season,  it  is  navigable  for  large  vessels  as 
far  as  Ava,  about  four  hundred  and  fifty  miles  above 
Rangoon.  Mr.  Crawfurd,  the  British  commissioner  to 
negotiate  the  commercial  treaty  at  the  close  of  the  war 
in  1826,  proceeded  to  Ava  in  the  steamer  Diana,  and 
found  a  depth  of  water  sufficient  for  a  mvich  larger 
vessel.  On  his  return,  in  the  dry  season,  the  steamer 
twice  grounded  on  sand  banks  —  a  misfortune,  how- 
ever, which  seems  to  have  arisen  mainly  from  the 
unskilfulness  of  the  pilot.  Above  Ava,  the  river  is 
navigable  for  large  boats,  but  to  what  distance  it  is 
not  possible  to  determine,  as  but  little  is  known  of 
the  geography  of  the  northern  portions  of  the  empire. 

A  few  miles  from  the  town  of  Sarwa,  the  Irrawadi 


130  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

divides  into  two  branches,  the  one  pursuing  a  south- 
eastern, the  other  a  south-western,  course  to  the  Bay 
of  Bengal.  From  each  of  these  smaller  branches 
proceed  in  every  direction,  uniting  with  each  other 
and  forming  a  perfect  network  of  navigable  waters, 
which  covers  the  whole  peninsula  from  the  base  of 
the  Arracan  Mountains  to  the  banks  of  the  Salwen 
River.  These  various  streams,  or  natural  canals,  at 
last  enter  the  Bay  of  Bengal  by  fourteen  separate 
channels.  Most  of  them  are,  however,  rendered  use- 
less for  foreign  commerce  by  sand  bars,  which  obstruct 
navigation. 

From  the  sea  coast  to  nearly  the  latitude  of  Prome, 
the  country  is  a  level,  alluvial  plain,  intersected,  as  I 
have  remarked,  by  innumerable  watercourses.  The 
soil  is  exceedingly  productive,  and  is  specially  adapted 
to  the  cultivation  of  rice,  the  universal  diet  of  the 
inhabitants  of  India.  This  is,  therefore,  the  granary 
of  the  empire.  Ascending  the  river,  as  you  leave 
Prome,  the  face  of  the  country  changes.  High  ranges 
of  mountains  appear  on  the  right  hand  and  on  the 
left,  and  the  intermediate  region  becomes  undulating 
and  hilly.  The  mountains  approach  nearer  and  nearer 
to  the  river,  until  the  banks  become  steep  and  precip- 
itous. Above  the  latitude  of  Ava,  the  whole  region 
is  intersected  by  mountain  ranges  running  north  and 
south,  and  penetrating  Asam  on  the  west  and  the 
province  of  Yunan  on  the  east. 

The  portions  of  Burmah  ceded  to  the  British  at 
the  close  of  the  last  war  were  the  kingdom  of  Arracan 
and  the  Tenasserim  provinces.*     The  former  is  gcner- 

*  Since  this  paragrapli  was  written,  the  Bunnan  empire  has  been 
again  dismembered,  and  the  British  have  annexed  to  the  possessions 
of  the  Hon.  East  India  Company  the  kingdom  of  Pegu,  -which  formed 


POrULATION    OF   BURMAH.  181 

ally  hilly,  with  extensive  alluvial  fiats  near  the  sea, 
and  along  the  numerous  streams,  fertile,  and  adapted 
to  the  cultivation  of  rice.  Akyab,  the  principal  port, 
has  a  secure  and  convenient  harbor.  Of  the  Ten- 
asserim  provinces,  the  principal  rivers  are  the  vari- 
ous branches  of  the  Salwen,  the  Ataran,  the  Tavoy, 
and  the  Mergui  rivers.  Most  of  these  streams  are, 
for  a  short  distance,  navigable  for  vessels  of  consider- 
able burden,  and  must,  in  time,  become  the  homes 
of  extensive  commerce. 

Respecting  the  population  of  Burmah,  the  differ- 
ence of  the  estimates  is  quite  remarkable.  Colonel 
Symes,  who  visited  the  empire  in  the  year  1795, 
supposed  the  number  of  inhabitants  to  be  about 
seventeen  millions.  When  the  Baptist  mission  was 
first  established  in  Rangoon,  this  computation  was 
supposed  to  be  correct,  and  it  was  frequently  said 
that  the  population  of  Burmah  equalled  that  of  the 
United  States.  Later  travellers  have  reduced  it  to 
eight  millions.  Crawfurd,  after  as  careful  a  computa- 
tion as  he  was  able  to  form,  does  not  believe  that  it 
exceeds  four  millions.  Dr.  Malcom  believes  that  there 
may  be  three  million  Burmans,  three  million  Shyans, 
and  probably  two  millions  of  other  tribes,  subject  to 
the  Burman  dominion.  When  estimates  of  this  kind 
are  made,  the  lowest  is,  I  think,  most  likely  to  be  cor- 
rect. Travellers,  in  such  a  country  as  this,  must,  of 
necessity,  pursue  the  most  frequented  routes,  and 
follow  the  most  navigable  watercourses.  These, 
being  always  the  most  thickly-peopled  portions  of  a 
country,  would  naturally  convey  an  exaggerated  idea 
of  its  population.     I  am   of  the   opinion   that  more 

tlie  whole  lower  portion  of  the  country.  The  Burmans  thus  have  lost 
the  whole  of  their  territory  lying  on  the  Bay  of  Bengal,  their  southern 
liroit  being  to  the  north  of  Prome. 


132  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

accurate  investigation  than  is  now  possible  will  show 
that  the  population  of  the  empire  and  its  pres'ent 
dependencies  does  not  exceed  six  or  eight  millions.* 

A  large  portion  of  the  soil  of  Burmah  is  fertile,  and 
under  a  good  government  would  be  remarkably  pro- 
ductive. The  lower  provinces,  from  the  sea  to  the 
latitude  of  Prome,  produce,  as  I  have  said,  rice  in 
great  abundance.  In  the  more  elevated  districts,  cot- 
ton of  a  good  quality,  of  a  soft  and  silky  texture,  but 
of  short  staple,  is  every  where  cultivated.  The  teak 
tree,  the  best  ship  timber  in  the  world,  grows  on  the 
mountains.  Maize,  wheat,  millet,  and  various  kinds 
of  pulses,  with  the  usual  variety  of  edible  roots,  and 
a  multitude  of  tropical  fruits,  are  produced  with  very 
little  labor.  The  domestic  animals  are  such  as  are 
common  in  India  —  the  buffalo,  braminy  cattle,  the 
horse,  and  the  goat ;  and  in  the  forests  are  found  the 
elephant,  the  rhinoceros,  the  tiger,  and  several  varieties 
of  the  deer. 

The  mineral  wealth  of  Burmah  is  probably  great. 
It  possesses  mines  of  iron,  tin,  silver,  and  gold,  and 
produces  sapphires,  emeralds,  and  rubies,  with  amber 
in  large  quantities.  Sulphur,  arsenic,  and  antimony 
are  found  in  abundance,  and  coal,  both  anthracite  and 
bituminous,  exists  in  various  places,  but  has  not  yet 
been  brought  into  use.  On  the  banks  of  the  Irrawadi, 
a  short  distance  above  Prome,  petroleum  is  obtained 
in  large  quantities.  The  annual  yield  of  the  wells 
here  is  said  by  Dr.  Malcom  to  be  about  eighty  mil- 
lions of  pounds.  Marble  is  found  in  various  places, 
and  some  of  the  quarries  yield  a  product  which  is 
said,  for  statuary  purposes,  to  equal  that  from  Carrara. 

*  The  population  has  since  been  greatly  reduced  by  the  loss  of  the 
kingdom  of  Pegu  within  the  present  year. 


GOVERNMENT    OB'    BUUMAII.  133 

The  commerce  of  the  empire  is  but  limited.  The 
Barmans  are  intelligent  and  industrious,  and  under  a 
good  government  would  probably  soon  excel  in  manu- 
factures. Under  the  protection  of  English  employers, 
they  at  one  time  became  excellent  ship  builders  at 
Rangoon.  But  manufactures  require  fixed  capital, 
and  when  the  possession  of  capital  invites  oppression 
and  spoliation,  they  cannot  exist.  Hence  the  exports 
of  Burmah  are  limited  almost  exclusively  to  the  raw 
materials  produced  by  their  unskilful  labor.  The  most 
important  of  them  are  teak  wood,  raw  cotton,  both 
white  and  yellow,  precious  stones,  and  lackered  ware. 
Teak  wood  is  sent  to  Calcutta,  and  is  mostly  used  in 
the  naval  service  of  Great  Britain.  Cotton  and  pre- 
cious stones,  lackered  ware,  and  edible  birds'  nests  are 
sent  to  China.  The  English  send,  in  return,  cotton 
fabrics,  hardware,  cutlery,  and  old  muskets.  The  Chi- 
nese bring  principally  raw  silk,  which  is  made  into 
coarse  goods  by  the  Burmans,  and  the  velvets  which 
are  worn  on  state  occasions  by  the  grandees  of  the 
empire.  Rice,  salt,  and  salt  fish  are  carried  from  the 
southern  provinces  and  the  sea  coast  to  the  u^per 
country,  and  exchanged  for  lackered  ware,  raw  cot- 
ton, precious  stones,  metals,  and  petroleum. 

The  government  of  Burmah  is  an  unmitigated  des- 
potism of  the  sternest  character.  The  king  is  the  ac- 
knowledged possessor  of  the  soil,  and  the  people  are 
his  slaves.  He  is  lord  of  the  life  and  property  of  all 
his  subjects.  No  rank  or  office  protects  a  citizen  from 
the  liability  of  being  ordered  to  immediate  execution, 
if  such  be  the  will  of  the  monarch.  Several  of  the 
commanders  who  were  defeated  in  the  last  war  with 
the  British  were  beheaded  within  a  few  hours  of  their 
arrival  at  the  capital.     Mr.  Crawfurd  saw  one  of  the 

VOL.   I.  12 


134  mp:moik  of  dk.  judson. 

chief  officers  of  state,  for  some  trifling  offence,  exposed 
to  the  meridian  sun,  lying  on  his  back,  with  a  weight 
on  his  chest,  for  several  hours.  When  a  man  is  put 
to  death  by  the  order  of  the  king,  his  property  reverts 
to  the  crown.  Hence  the  possession  of  large  wealth 
becomes  a  somewhat  unenviable  distinction. 

The  government  of  the  empire  is  administered  by 
a  council  of  state,  appointed  by  the  king.  This  coun- 
cil is  called  collectively  lut-d'hau,  from  the  name  of 
the  hall  in  which  its  business  is  transacted.  These 
councillors  are  four  in  number,  unless,  as  it  sometimes 
happens,  on  a  special  emergency,  another  member  is 
added.  These  officers  are  called  w^oon-gyees.  All  pub- 
lic matters  are  discussed  in  this  council,  and  the  deci- 
sion is  by  the  majority  of  voices.  Every  royal  edict  is 
by  usage  sanctioned  by  this  council,  and,  in  fact,  ap- 
pears in  their  name,  rather  than  in  that  of  the  king. 
Their  functions  are  legislative,  judicial,  and  executive. 

Each  woon-gyee  has  a  deputy,  who  is  called  a  woon- 
douk.  The  woon-douks,  although  they  sit  in  council, 
neither  deliberate  nor  vote.  Whatever  business  they 
transact  is  in  the  name  of  their  superiors. 

The  woon-douks  have  also  their  assistants,  who  are 
called  sara-dau-gyee.  They  are  from  eight  to  ten  in 
number.  These  are,  in  fact,  the  secretaries  of  the 
lut-d'hau,  and  their  business  is  to  record  its  proceed- 
ings.    Their  name  signifies  "  great  royal  scribes." 

A  second  council  forms  another  branch  of  the  gov- 
ernment. This,  like  the  other,  consists  of  four  mem- 
bers. Their  title  is  atwen-woon,  meaning  "  inside  " 
ministers  of  state.*  These  officers  constitute  the  pri- 
vate advisers  of  the  king.  Whatever  emanates  di- 
rectly from  him  is  first  discussed  in  this  privy  council, 

*•  Inside  ministers,  or  privy  councillors. 


GOVERNMENT    OF    BURirAII.  135 

before  it  is  transmitted  to  the  lut-d'hau.  It  deliberates 
and  votes  like  the  superior  council,  and  its  members 
exercise  also  judicial  functions.  It  is  a  matter  of  dis- 
pute at  the  court  of  Ava  whether  the  rank  of  atwen- 
woon  or  of  woon-douk  be  the  higher. 

Attached  to  the  privy  council  are  secretaries,  com- 
monly thirty  in  number.  These  are  called  than-dau- 
sens.  They  hold  the  same  relation  to  the  atwen-woons 
that  the  woon-douks  hold  to  the  woon-gyees.  Their 
business  is  to  record  the  proceedings  of  the  council, 
to  take  minutes  of  the  king's  commands,  and  to  read 
and  report  upon  petitions.  Attached  to  both  of  these 
councils  are  four  or  five  officers,  called  nakandau, 
meaning  "  deputies  of  the  royal  star."  Their  business 
is,  nominally,  to  convey  messages  between  the  two 
councils,  but,  really,  to  report  to  the  king  what  is  done 
in  the  lut-d'hau. 

Such  is  the  theory  of  the  government.  In  practice, 
however,  a  council  which  may  be  degi*aded  or  exe- 
cuted at  the  word  of  the  monarch  must  be  useless  as 
advisers.  In  the  former  war  with  Great  Britain,  they 
frequently  did  not  dare  to  make  known  the  facts  to 
the  king,  or  even  offer  their  opinions  upon  the  state 
of  affairs.  They  are  really  the  passive  instruments 
for  carrying  into  effect  the  will  of  the  monarch.  They 
are  willing  to  live  in  constant  apprehension  of  dis- 
grace and  death  for  the  privilege  of  subjecting  all 
below  them  to  the  same  condition.  Political  life 
seems  to  be  much  the  same  in  all  countries. 

The  rank  of  every  officer  of  government  is  deter- 
mined by  the  tsahvay,  or  golden  chain,  which  passes 
over  the  left  shoulder,  and  crosses  the  breast.  In 
front,  it  is  divided  into  several  strands  of  chain  work. 
Three  common  strands  indicate  the  lowest  grade  of 


136  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

office  ;  three  of  more  elaborate  workmanship  the  next 
above ;  then  come  those  of  six,  nine,  and  twelve, 
which  last  number  indicates  the  highest  rank  attaina- 
ble by  a  subject.  Princes  of  the  blood  most  nearly 
related  to  the  king  wear  eighteen.  The  monarch  him- 
self alone  wears  twenty-four. 

The  civil  administration  is  organized  as  follows  : 
The  kingdom  is  divided  into  provinces,  provinces  into 
townships,  townships  into  districts,  and  districts  into 
villages  or  hamlets. 

The  governor  of  a  province  is  called  myo-woon, 
and  is  vested  with  the  entire  charge  of  the  province, 
civil,  judicial,  military,  and  fiscal.  Under  him  are 
collectors  of  customs,  deputies,  &c.,  who  form  his 
council,  without  whose  assent  no  order  of  importance 
can  be  executed.  The  myo-woon  has  power  of  life 
and  death. 

The  governor  of  a  township  is  called  myo-thoo-gyee. 
The  governor,  or  head  man,  of  a  district  or  village  is 
called  thoo-gyee.  These  are  all  respectively  subordi- 
nate to  each  other. 

No  public  functionary  receives  any  fixed  salary. 
The  principal  officers  of  state  are  rewarded  by  assign- 
ments of  certain  districts,  from  the  inhabitants  of 
which  they  exact  as  much  as  they  are  able.  Inferior 
officers  are  paid  by  fees,  emoluments,  perquisites, 
together  with  all  that  can  be  collected  by  extortion 
and  bribery.  Each  of  these  officers  exercises  judicial 
functions  within  his  own  district,  an  appeal,  however, 
lying  to  the  next  higher  in  office.  Bribery  is  uni- 
versal ;  and  it  rarely  happens  that  a  criminal  is  pun- 
ished, if  he  is  able  to  satisfy  the  rapacity  of  the  officer 
before  whom  he  is  arraigned.  The  judges  take  bribes 
from  both  sides,  and  the  decree,  except  in  very  palpa- 


GOVERNMENT    OF    BURMAH.  137 

ble  cases,  will  be  in  favor  of  him  who  pays  the  high- 
est. "  On  the  7th  of  February,  1817,  seven  persons 
found  guilty  of  sacrilege  were  conveyed  to  the  place 
of  execution  near  Rangoon,  and  secured  in  the  usual 
way  to  the  stake.  The  first  of  them  was  fired  at  four 
successive  times  by  a  marksman  without  being  hit. 
At  every  shot  there  was  a  loud  peal  of  laughter  from 
the  spectators.  The  malefactor  was  taken  dowm,  de- 
clared to  be  invulnerable,  pardoned,  and  taken  into  a 
confidential  employment  by  the  governor.  He  had 
paid  a  large  bribe.  The  second  culprit  was  shot,  and 
the  remaining  five  were  decapitated."  * 

The  various  provinces  of  the  kingdom  ore  appor- 
tioned out  to  favorites  of  the  court,  or  are  made  re- 
sponsible for  the  support  of  some  branch  of  the  gov- 
ernment. The  individual  to  whom  this  cession  is 
made  becomes  then  the  governor  of  that  province,  or, 
as  the  Burmans  appropriately  term  him,  its  "  eater," 
or  consumer.  By  means  of  his  subordinate  agents, 
he  taxes  every  family  as  much  as  it  is  supposed  to  be 
able  to  pay.  Every  subordinate  ofiicer  takes  his  share 
of  this  tax,  and  the  governor  at  last  divides  wdth  the 
king  the  portion  which  he  receives.  The  poor  peasant 
is  thus  obliged  to  satisfy  a  succession  of  harpies, 
while  but  a  small  portion  of  w^hat  he  pays  ever 
reaches  the  public  treasury.  Besides  these  contribu- 
tions paid  to  the  lord  of  the  land,  the  cultivators  are 
from  time  to  time,  and  according  to  the  public  exi- 
gency, called  upon  for  contributions  to  the  state.  The 
amount  of  these  is  fixed  by  the  lut-d'hau,  or  chief 
council.  These  contributions,  being  levied  through 
the  lords,  or  local  olficcrs,  are  made  a  pretext  for  addi- 
tional exactions  on  their  own  account,  often  greater 

*  Crawi'xird's  Einbasrsy,  vol.  ii. 
12  * 


MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 


than  those  taken  for  the  government.  The  Burman 
officers  are  thus  turned  loose  upon  the  country,  to 
prey  upon  it  like  a  swarm  of  locusts.  The  contribu- 
tions paid  into  the  public  treasury  are  little  better 
than  a  hoard  to  gratify  the  desires  of  the  reigning 
prince  ;  and  the  amount  exacted  from  the  peoph^  for 
this  purpose  depends  entirely  upon  his  personal  char- 
acter. His  subordinate  officers,  from  the  highest  to 
the  lowest,  follow  the  example  of  their  chief;  and 
every  energy  of  the  people  is  crushed  under  a  savage, 
selfish,  and  relentless  despotism. 

The  religion  of  Burmah  is  Buddhism.  To  present 
an  extended  view  of  this  form  of  religion,  which  num- 
bers among  its  believers  a  larger  portion  of  the  inhab- 
itants of  the  earth  than  any  other,  would  be  foreign 
to  the  design  of  a  memoir  like  the  present.  I  can  do 
nothing  more  than  offer  a  brief  statement  of  the  Bur- 
man  religious  system,  compiled  from  such  sources  as 
have  been  within  my  reach.  I  was  happy  to  find, 
after  a  pretty  extensive  research,  that  Dr.  Judson  had 
furnished  Mr.  Crawfurd  with  an  article  on  this  sub- 
ject, which  is  inserted  in  the  fourth  chapter  of  the 
second  volume  of  his  "  Embassy."  As  I  consider 
this  of  the  highest  authority,  I  transcribe  it  entire. 

A  life  period,  called  A-yen-kiit,  is  a  revolution  of  time, 
during  which  the  life  of  man  gradually  advances  from  ten 
years  to  an  A-then-kye,  and  returns  again  to  ten.  Sixty-four 
life  periods  make  one  intermediate  period,  (An-ta-ra-kat ;) 
sixty -four  intermediate  periods-  make  one  quarterly  period, 
wliich  may  be  so  termed  because  four  such  periods  make  one 
grand  period  (Ma-ha-kat,)  a  complete  revolution  of  nature. 
The  revolutions  of  nature,  as  marked  by  the  various  periods, 
are  eternal  or  infinite.  Some  grand  -periods  are  distinguished 
by   the    development    of    an    extraordinary   being   called   a 


BUDDHISM.  1S9 

Budd'lia,  Avho,  tliough  born  of  eartlily  parents,  attains  to  the 
summit  of  omniscience.*  The  present  grand  period  has  been 
favored  by  four  of  these  personages,  whose  names  are  Kan- 
kri-than,  Gau-na-gong,  Ka-tha-pa,  and  Gau-ta-ma.  The  fifth 
Budd'ha,  or  A-ri-mi-te-ya,  is  now  reposing,  according  to  the 
best  authorities,  in  one  of  the  lower  celestial  regions,  and  will 
develop  himself  in  due  time. 

The  communications  of  all  Budd'has  previously  to  Gnu- 
ta-ma  are  now  lost.  His  communications,  made  at  first  to  his 
immediate  disciples,  and  by  them  retained  in  memory  during 
five  centuries  more,  after  his  decease  agreed  upon  in  several  suc- 
cessive general  councils,  (Then-ga-ya-na,)  and  finally  reduced  to 
writing  on  palm  leaves,  in  the  Island  of  Ceylon,  in  the  ninety- 
fourth  year  before  Christ,  and  the  four  hundred  and  fiftieth 
after  Gau-ta-ma,  form  the  present  Buddhist  scriptures,  the 
only  rule  of  faith  and  practice.  They  are  comprised  in  three 
grand  divisions,  (Pe-ta-kat,)  which  are  again  subdivided  into 
fifteen,  and  those  into  six  hundred. 

According  to  the  Buddhist  scriptures,  the  universe  is  com- 
posed of  an  infinite  number  of  worlds,  or  Sakya  systems.  A 
Sakya  system  consists  of  one  central  Myen-mo,  or  mount, 
the  surrounding  seas  and  islands,  the  celestial  regions,  includ- 
ing the  revolving  luminaries  and  the  infernal  regions.  The 
earth  on  which  we  live  is  the  southernmost  of  the  four  grand 
islands  which  surround  the  mount,  each  of  Avliich  is  again  sur- 
rounded by  four  hundred  of  smaller  size. 

The  celestial  regions  consist  of  six  inferior  and  twenty 
superior  heavens.  Of  the  six  inferior  heavens,  the  first  occu- 
pies the  middle,  and  the  second  the  summit  of  the  Myen-mo 
mount.  The  remaining  arise  above  each  other  in  .  regular 
gradation.  The  same  remark  applies  to  the  superior  heavens, 
which  are  again  distinguished  mto  the  sixteen  visible  and  four 
invisible.  The  inferior  regions  consist  of  eight  hills,  one 
above  another,  each  being  surrounded  by  sixteen  smaller  hills. 


*  "  Omniscience  "  is,  according  to  Buddhists,  the  principal  attri- 
bute of  Gautama. 


no  MEMOIR    OF    DIl.    JUDSON. 

The  universe  is  replete  with  an  infinity  of  souls,  which 
have  been  transmigrating  in  different  bodies  from  all  eternity ; 
ascent  or  descent  in  the  scale  of  existence  being  at  every 
change  of  state  ascertained  by  the  immutable  "  mysterious 
laws  of  fate,"  according  to  the  merit  or  demerit  of  the  indi- 
vidual. No  being  is  exempt  from  sickness,  old  age,  and  death. 
Instability,  pain,  and  change  are  the  three  grand  character- 
istics of  all  existence. 

"  However  highly  exalted  in  the  celestial  regions,  and  what- 
ever number  of  ages  of  happiness  may  roll  on,"  say  llie  Bur- 
mans,  "the  fatal  symptom  of  a  moisture  under  the  armpits 
will  at  length  display  itself."  The  mortal  being,  when  this 
presents  itself,  must  be  prepared  to  exchange  the  blandish- 
ments and  dalliance  of  celestial  beauties  for  the  gridirons, 
pitchforks,  mallets,  and  other  instruments  of  torture  of  the  in- 
fernal regions.  The  chief  end  of  man,  according  to  the  Bur- 
mese, is  to  terminate  the  fatiguing  course  of  transmigratory 
existence.  This  attainment  Lord  Gautama  made  in  the 
eightieth  year  of  his  life,  and  all  his  immediate  disciples  have 
participated  in  the  same  happy  fate.  What  remains  to  the 
present  race  of  beings  is  to  aim  at  passing  their  time  in  the 
regions  of  men  and  gods,  until  they  shall  come  in  contact  with 
the  next  Budd'ha,  the  Lord  Arimiteya,  whom  tliey  may  hope 
to  accompany  to  the  golden  world  of  nigban,  or  annihila- 
tion. In  order  to  this,  it  is  necessary  to  keep  the  com- 
mands of  the  last  Budd'ha,  to  Avorship  the  Budd'ha,  his  law 
and  his  priests ;  to  refrain  from  taking  life ;  from  stealing ; 
from  adultery ;  from  falsehood,  and  from  drinking  intoxicating 
liquors ;  to  regard  the  images  and  temples  of  the  Budd'ha  the 
same  as'himself ;  to  perform  acts  of  worship,  and  listen  to  the 
instructions  of  religion  on  the  days  of  the  new  moon,  the  full 
moon,  and  the  quarters  ;  to  make  offerings  for  the  support  of 
the  priests,  to  assist  at  funerals,  and,  in  general,  to  perform  all 
charitable  and  religious  duties. 

In  the  year  930  after  Gautama,  A.  D.  086,  Budd'ha-gautha 
transcribed  the  Buddhist  scriptures,  with  an  iron  pen  of  celes- 
tial workmanship,  and  brought  them  by  sea  to  Pugan,  the 


BUDDHISM.  141 

seat  of  supreme  government.  The  time  and  manner  in  which 
the  religion  of  Gautama  was  introduced  into  the  country  are 
not  sufliciently  ascertained.  It  subsequently  underwent  some 
modification,  and  was  finally  established  in^its  present  form  by 
King  Anan-ra-tha-men-sau,  who  began  to  reign  in  Pugan  in 
the  1541st  year  after  Gautama,  the  3o9th  of  the  present 
vulgar  era,  and  A.  D.  997. 

To  this  brief  statement,  which  contains  by  far  the 
most  intelligible  account  of  the  system  of  Buddhism 
that  I  have  seen,  I  will  add  a  few  items  of  informa- 
tion, which  I  have  been  able  to  glean  from  a  tolerably 
extensive  reading  on  the  subject. 

It  will  be  seen  that  the  moral  code  of  Buddhism  is 
simple  and  pure.  Its  five  precepts  are,  I.  Thou  shalt 
not  take  life.  This  precept  is  universal.  The  priests, 
in  order  to  obey  it,  carry  with  them  a  brush,  with  which 
they  sweep  the  seat  on  which  they  are  about  to  sit 
down,  lest  they  should  inadvertently  crush  the  smallest 
insect.  II.  Thou  shalt  not  steal.  III.  Thou  shalt  not 
commit  adultery.  IV.  Thou  shalt  not  lie.  V.  Thou 
shalt  drink  no  intoxicating  liquors.  It  is  by  obedience 
to  these  that,  at  death,  we  enter  by  transmigration 
into  a  better  condition  than  we  occupy  at  present. 

The  rules  more  at  large  for  the  regulation  of  our 
conduct  are  contained  in  the  institutions  of  Menu,  an 
ascetic,  who,  ages  ago,  on  account  of  his  austerities, 
was  favored  with  a  remarkable  degree  of  divine  illu- 
mination. This  work,  entitled  "  The  Damathat,  or 
the  Laws  of  Menu,"  *  has  been  translated  into  Eng- 

*  For  a  copy  of  this  work  I  am  indoljted  to  the  kindness  of  my 
fiiend  and  fonncr  pupil,  l\cv.  E.  A.  Stevens,  of  Manlmain.  It  is  to 
be  remembered  that  this  is  an  enthely  different  work  from  the  Brah- 
minical  institutes  of  Menu.  "SXTiy  they  should  both  have  the  same 
name,  I  am  not  able  to  discover. 


142  MEMO  IK    OF    Dll.   JUDSOX. 

lish  by  D.  Richardson,  Esq.,  principal  assistant  to  the 
commissioner,  Tenasserim  provinces,  and  was  pub- 
lished in  Maulmain,  at  the  American  Baptist  mission 
press,  in  1847.  It  consists  of  fourteen  books,  each  of 
which  is  generally  devoted  to  a  class  of  subjects  in 
law  and  ethics.  Each  book  commences  with  the  fol- 
lowing title  :  "  I  worship  the  God  who  is  worthy  of 
homage,  who  possesses  an  intuitive  knowledge  of 
good."  I  had  intended  to  give  a  brief  account  of  this 
work,  but  I  find  that  my  limits  render  it  impracticable. 
In  no  instance  is  any  general  principle  explained  to 
which  moral  cases  may  be  referred  ;  but  each  book  is 
made  up  of  a  multitude  of  supposed  instances,  and  a 
decision  is  given  applying  to  that  instance.  They 
exhibit  much  acuteness,  and  indicate,  from  their  fre- 
quent complexity,  that  they  must  have  been  composed 
in  an  advanced  period  of  civilization.  Frequently  the 
solution  of  the  case  is  given  in  a  parable  or  an  alle- 
gory. They  are  generally  of  a  description  that  would 
give  large  room  for  special  pleading  and  chicanery. 
As  no  general  principle  is  laid  down,  the  party  accused 
would  find  it  easy  in  most  cases  to  show  that  some 
difference  exists  between  the  case  at  issue  and  that 
mentioned  in  the  books.  In  a  note  to  the  first  book 
of  the  Institutes,  I  find  the  following  remark  by  the 
translator,  which,  I  think,  throws  some  light  upon  the 
doctrines  of  Buddha :  "  Zan  Mina.  There  are  four 
states  of  Zan:  1.  Thought  or  desire;  2.  Reflection; 
3.  Joy  or  pleasure  ;  4.  Happiness,  bliss,  and  perma- 
nency or  immutability ;  all  of  which  enable  the  pos- 
sessor to  traverse  different  worlds."  The  illustration 
of  this  doctrine  is  as  follows,  and  it  presents  so  good 
a  specimen  of  the  manner  in  which  such  subjects  are 
treated  in  the  work  that  I  insert  it:   "  A  man  sleeping 


BUDDHISM.  143 

at  the  foot  of  a  mango  tree,  with  his  cloth  over  his 
head,  is  in  a  state  of  unintelligence.  A  mango  falls 
on  him,  and  awakes  him ;  he  is  tlien  in  the  first  state. 
He  considers  what  this  can  be  ;  he  is  then  in  the  sec- 
ond state.  He  puts  the  cloth  off'  his  head,  and,  looking 
at  the  mango,  approves  of  it,  and  is  in  the  third  state. 
He  then  takes  it  up,  and  eats  it ;  it  is  sweet  and  pleas- 
ant ;  and  he  is  then  in  the  fourth  state  ;  or,  having  eaten 
it,  he  is  in  a  state  of  great  enjoyment,  blissful  repose 
—  the  fifth  state." 

The  Buddhist  priesthood  is  confined  to  no  class, 
and  indeed  the  doctrines  of  Gaudama  allow  of  no 
hereditary  caste ;  any  man  who  complies  with  the 
required  precepts  may  be  admitted  to  the  sacred  order. 
He,  however,  is  not  obliged  to  remain  in  it  for  life,  but 
may  quit  it  at  his  pleasure,  and,  I  think,  without  re- 
proach. The  priests  are  bound  by  the  vows  of  celibacy 
and  poverty.  They  are  forbidden  to  hold  property,  and 
are  supported  by  voluntary  contributions  of  the  people. 
They  go  out  daily  in  the  streets  with  their  rice  pots, 
and  every  one  gives  them  what  he  pleases.  They  are 
forbidden,  however,  to  take  money,  and  they  never  ask 
for  any  thing.  Travellers  assure  us  that  they  are 
never  seen  to  turn  their  heads,  or  even  look  upon  the 
offering  made  to  them.  It  were  well  if  the  ecclesias- 
tics of  many  other  countries  derived  instruction- from 
their  example. 

The  labors  of  the  priests  seem  unlike  those  of  any 
other  religion.  They  seldom  preach,  nor  do  they  gen- 
erally seem  to  perform  any  specially  religious  service 
for  the  people.  They  are  merely  men  sacredly  de- 
voted to  pious  observances  and  holy  austerities.  They 
reside  altosrether  in  monasteries  which  have  been 
erected  for  them,  and  in  some  cases  endowed  by  mon- 


144  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

archs  or  governors  —  an  appropriation  of  property  held 
to  be  specially  meritorious.  They  are  forbidden  to 
have  any  connection  with  the  civil  power,  and  they 
seem  to  have  but  very  little.  Their  principal  employ- 
ment is  that  of  instructing  the  young,  to  which  they 
commonly  devote  themselves.  The  monasteries  are, 
therefore,  in  general,  the  school  houses  of  Burmah,  and 
the  priests  are  her  schoolmasters.  What  they  teach  is 
very  little  ;  but  it  suffices  to  enable  a  large  portion 
of  the  male  population  to  read.  In  this  respect  the 
Buddhist  priesthood  compares  very  favorably  with  that 
of  other  false  or  perverted  systems  of  religion. 

The  Buddhists  have  been  commonly  denominated 
atheists.  Whatever  may  be  the  views  which  have 
subsequently  obtained  among  the  people  at  large,  I 
doubt  whether  the  sjjstem  of  Gaudama  is  chargeable 
with  this  error.  Men  are  believed  to  exist  after  death, 
inhabiting  other  bodies ;  and  the  change  which  then 
takes  place  is  determined  by  their  conduct  in  the  state 
which  they  occupy  at  the  present.  They  may  be 
changed  from  men  into  nats,  and  from  nats  in  an  infe- 
rior to  those  of  a  superior  grade ;  thus  gradually 
arising  until  they  arrive  at  nigban.  Or,  on  the  other 
hand,  they  may  be  changed  from  men  into  animals, 
and,  in  successive  transformations,  from  animals  of  a 
higher  to  those  of  a  lower  grade,  until  they  reach  hell, 
or  a  place  of  unmixed  torment.  In  cases  of  atrocious 
crime,  as  the  murder  of  a  parent,  or  a  priest,  they  pass 
through  no  intermediate  transformations,  but  at  once 
enter  the  place  of  torment.  The  doctrine  of  future 
rewards  and  punishments,  as  consequences  of  moral 
character  in  this  life,  is  thus  distinctly  recognized. 
The  peculiarity  of  their  belief  is,  that  this  life  is  not 
considered  as  the  state,  but  only  a  state  of  probation. 


BUDDHISM.  145 

Probation  extends  to  every  state  but  nigban.  Hence 
every  living  thing  which  we  see  is  inhabited,  for  the 
time  being,  by  a  soul  similar  to  our  own  ;  and  we  and 
it  may,  at  any  time,  change  places.  From  this  idea 
is  derived  the  prohibition  to  slay  animals  and  every 
thing  that  has  life. 

This  system  of  rewards  and  punishments  is  admin- 
istered, according  to  the  Buddhist  belief,  by  the  vari- 
ous grades  of  existence  superior  to  men,  and  inferior 
to  Buddh.  An  inquiry  is  instituted  by  these  deities 
into  the  character  of  every  individual,  and,  in  obedi- 
ence to  their  decision,  each  one  either  ascends  or  de- 
scends in  the  scale  of  being.  The  government  of  the 
universe  is,  therefore,  carried  on,  not  by  the  supreme 
divinity,  who  is,  according  to  the  notions  of  oriental 
happiness,  exempt  from  all  care,  but  by  inferior  beings, 
who  are  still  themselves  striving  upwards  in  order  to 
arrive  at  nigban. 

As  this  is  a  subject  on  which  I  found  great  difficulty 
in  arriving  at  any  accurate  information,  I  w^ill,  for  the 
benefit  of  others,  present  a  few  extracts  from  such 
authorities  as  seem  to  me  most  worthy  of  confidence 
in  illustration  and  confirmation  of  the  statements 
above.  The  following  extract  is  from  Upham's  His- 
tory of  Buddhism,  chap.  ix.  p.  105,  quarto,  Lon- 
don, 1829:  — 

Immediately  after  death,  the  judgment  is  pronounced  by 
Yamc-rajah,  the  god  of  the  heaven  Wape-warty-rajah,  upon 
such  mortal  beings  as  having  inthralled  their  souls  by  a  mix- 
ture of  good  and  evil,  yet  entertain  a  hope  to  come  into  the 
Brama  Loha ;  but  the  thoroughly  wicked  go  to  the  hell  un- 
heard, and  even  without  approaching  the  tribunal  of  the 
judge. 

VOL.   I.  13 


146  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

Before  the  gate  of  each  hell  sit  judges,  who  condemn  the 
guilty  according  to  the  weight  of  their  evil  deeds.  These 
judges  are  selected  from  the  Nat  Apura,  but  their  office  does 
not  exclude  them  from  enjoying  the  pleasures  of  their  happy 
companions.  They  have  no  occasion  to  examine  into  crimes 
of  a  very  atrocious  nature ;  the  weight  of  them  sinks  the  per- 
petrators at  once  into  hell. 

There  are  four  states  of  misery  appropriated  to  the  pun- 
ishment of  atrocious  crimes,  among  the  most  conspicuous  of 
which  is  disrespect  to  the  priesthood.  In  the  lesser  hells  are 
punished  those  who  do  not  honor  their  parents,  the  magistrates, 
or  old  age  ;  who  take  wine  and  inebriating  liquore  ;  who  corrupt 
wells,  or  destroy  highways  ;  Avho  are  fraudulent  and  deceitful ; 
who  speak  angrily  and  roughly ;  who  use  personal  violence ; 
who  pay  little  attention  to  the  words  of  pious  men  ;  who 
afflict  others  ;  who  propagate  scandal ;  who  chain,  bind,  or  fet- 
ter their  fellow-creatures  ;  who  admit  forbidden  things  into 
their  words,  actions,  or  desires ;  and  who  do  not  solace  the 
sick.  All  these  will  be  punished  according  to  the  atrocity  of 
the  deed  and  the  frequency  of  its  repetition ;  and  they  will 
suffer  also  in  another  hell,  compared  in  shape  to  a  kettle  of 
molten  brass,  where  they  are  three  thousand  years  in  descend- 
ing to  the  bottom,  and  three  thousand  yeai-s  in  ascending.* 

These  various  bells,  and  the  crimes  which  they  are 
intended  to  punish,  are  dwelt  on  in  the  Buddhist 
books  with  great  particularity.  I  need  go  no  further 
into  detail.  The  above  extracts  are  sufficient  to  show 
that  Buddhism  is  not  strictly  atheism ;  that  it  acknowl- 
edges a  moral  government  of  the  universe,  and  a  most 
comprehensive  and  minute  system  of  rewards  and 
punishments. 

The  belief  that  it  is  a  system  of  atheism  has  been 
derived  from  the  idea  of  nigban,  or,  as  it  is  translated, 
annihilation,  which  is  the  state  in  which  the  deity,  for 


BUDDlIISil.  147 

the  present  period,  always  exists.  So  far  as  I  can 
learn,  the  system  of  Gaudama  does  not  represent  nig- 
ban  as  annihilation.  It  is,  rather,  the  precisely  antago- 
nist idea  to  that  of  transmigration,  change,  and  pain- 
ful vicissitude,  to  which  the  rest  of  the  universe  is 
ever  subjected. 

The  most  celebrated  of  the  Burman  priests  at  Ava, 
in  reply  to  inquiries  made  by  one  of  the  Catholic  mis- 
sionaries, replied  as  follows :  "  When  a  person  is  no 
longer  subject  to  any  of  the  following  miseries,  namely, 
to  weight,  old  age,  disease,  and  death,  then  he  is  said 
to  have  obtained  nigban.  No  thing,  no  place,  can 
give  us  any  adequate  idea  of  nigban  ;  we  can  only 
say  that  to  be  free  from  the  four  above-mentioned  mis- 
eries, and  to  obtain  salvation,  is  nigban.  In  the  same 
manner  as  when  any  person  laboring  under  a  severe 
disease  recovers  by  the  assistance  of  medicine,  we 
say  he  has  obtained  health ;  but  if  any  person  wishes 
to  know  the  manner  or  cause  of  his  thus  obtaining 
health,  it  can  only  be  answered,  that  to  be  restored  to 
health  signifies  no  more  than  to  be  removed  from  dis- 
ease. In  the  same  manner  only  can  we  speak  of  nig- 
ban, and  after  this  manner  Gaudama  taught."  * 

Upham  remarks  that  'Uhe  Pali  doctrinal  books 
speak  of  Nirvana  (Nicban)  as  an  exemption  from 
old  age,  from  decay,  and  from  death ;  and  as  being 
also  the  acquirement  of  all  bliss.  .  .  .  Even  when 
the  Buddha  bestows  the  Nirvana,  his  votary  hears 
his  great  voice,  beholds  the  face,  and  accepts  a  state 
which  enables  him  to  see  the  succession  of  other 
Buddhas.  Such  is  the  clear  import  of  the  phrases, 
which  cannot  leave  us  to  doubt  of  the  system  possess- 
ing an  ulterior  state  of  rew^ard,  combined  with  posi- 

*  Asiatic  Researches,  vol.  vi.  p.  266. 


148  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

tive  vitality.  The  Buddhist  doctrine  always  treats 
life  in  the  stage  of  human  existence  as  a  state  of  suf- 
fering and  misfortune  ;  regarding  it  as  a  situation  of 
painful  probation,  growing  out  of  its  changes,  which 
can  be  escaped  from  in  no  other  way  than  by  the  ac- 
quirement of  the  unchangeable  state  of  Nirvana. 
Every  expression  of  illusion,  disappointment,  and 
pain  is  applied  to  life,  and  the  opposite  epithets  of 
unruffled  peace,  repose,  and  profound  tranquillity  as- 
cribed to  the  envied  rewards  of  Nirvana  —  expressions 
carried  even  to  the  length  of  non-existence." 

While,  however,  the  system  of  Gaudama  may  not 
be  strictly  chargeable  with  theoretical  atheism,  inas- 
much as  it  recognizes  the  existence  of  superior  beings 
who  govern  this  world,  and  reward  and  punish  us  for 
our  actions,  it  is,  I  believe,  the  common  opinion  that 
nigban  is  non-existence,  and  that  annihilation  is  the 
greatest  good  after  which  we  can  aspire.  Nor  is  this 
the  belief  of  the  uneducated  alone  ;  the  priests  them- 
selves teach  this  doctrine,  and  defend  it  on  philosoph- 
ical principles.  They  hold  that  divinity  itself  is  not 
exempt  from  change,  that  it  is  base  and  grovelling  to 
cling  to  existence,  since  a  nat  to-day  may  be  a  mon- 
key to-morrow.  Even  a  god  (their  gods  attain  to  de- 
ityship in  this  world)  is  subject  to  sickness  and  death  ; 
and  it  is  noble  and  philosophic,  the  mark  of  a  superior 
mind,  not  in  love  with  mean  and  paltry  things,  to 
choose  wo^  to  he.  The  Brahminical  idea  of  absorption 
in  the  deity  is  utterly  unknown  to  the  greater  part  of 
the  Buddhists,  and  would  be  abhorrent  to  them,  for 
their  deity  himself  lays  down  his  existence,  and  be- 
comes a  nonentity.  Mr.  Judson  found  that  the  min- 
ister of  state,  Moung  Zah,  had  an  indistinct  notion  of 
a  deity  who  ought  to  be  eternal,  and  said  that  he  and 


BUDDHISM.  149 

the  Prince  Mekara  came  the  nearest  to  deism  of  any 
pm-e  Burmans  he  had  ever  met  with.  Mrs.  Judson 
states,  that  her  old  teacher,  a  Christian,  who  had 
been  a  Buddhist  priest  in  his  youth,  assured  her  that 
he  had  never  heard  nor  imagined  that  nigban  meant 
any  thing  but  annihilation.  This  difference  between 
the  teachings  of  a  religious  system  and  the  belief  of 
those  who  profess  it,  is  unfortunately  a  matter  of  very 
common  occurrence. 

Such,  then,  seems  to  be  the  system  of  Buddhism.* 
In  its  moral  precepts  it  is  remarkable  for  purity.  So 
far  as  the  relations  between  man  and  man  are  con- 
cerned, it  is,  in  many  respects,  similar  to  the  Mosaic 
law.  The  punishments  which  it  denounces  against 
sin  are  awful  beyond  conception  ;  and  the  rewards  of 
obedience  are  as  great  as  the  authors  of  the  system 
could  imagine.  For  the  least  aberration  from  recti- 
tude the  consequence  is  pain  only  less  than  infinite.  It, 
however,  in  no  case  that  I  have  seen,  makes  any  allu- 
sion to  repentance.  After  one  sin,  the  being  is  forever 
helplessly  under  condemnation,  unless  he  can  attain 
to  annihilation.  It  presents  no  way  of  escape  for  the 
sinner  by  means  of  an  atonement.  It  is  a  pure  system 
of  law,  with  its  rewards  and  punishments,  without  re- 
lenting, without  pardon,  and  without  hope  for  the 
guilty. 

It  remains  to  consider  what  has  been  the  practical 
effect  of  this  system  upon  the  mind  of  man.  It  is  a 
system,  it  will  be  remembered,  devised  to  govern  the 
moral  conduct  of  a  race  of  sinners.  Hence  the  im- 
possibility of  avoiding  its  penalties  is  at  once  evi- 
dent.    Do  what  we  will,  conscience   must  convict  us 

*  Sec  Appendix  A,  for  otlicr  views  held  hy  Dr.  Judson. 
13* 


150  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

of  grie.vous  moral  imperfection,  involving  the  neces- 
sity of  ages  of  suffering,  without  the  certainty  of  any 
eventual  escape.  Under  such  a  system,  the  mind 
sinks  down  in  utter  helplessness.  When  there  is  no 
escape  from  punishment,  the  difference  between  ten 
millions  and  twenty  millions  of  transmigrations  is  not 
capable  of  being  appreciated.  Virtue  and  vice,  in  our 
imperfect  state,  are,  therefore,  hardly  capable  of  being 
distinguished  from  each  other  in  their  results.  Thus 
the  system  which  seems  to  have  exhausted  the  human 
faculties  in  conceivinsr  of  terrors  which   should  deter 

o 

us  from  sin,  is  found  practically  to  have  created 
against  it  no  barrier  whatever. 

The  result  was  such 'as  might  have  been  expected. 
While  the  law  of  Gaudama  forbids  us  to  take  the  life 
of  any  animated  being,  the  Burmans  are  bloodthirsty, 
cruel,  and  vindictive,  beyond  most  of  the  nations  of 
India.  Murders  are  of  very  common  occurrence,  and 
the  punishment  by  death  is  inflicted  with  every  aggra- 
vation of  cruelty.  While  licentiousness  is  absolutely 
forbidden,  they  are  said  to  be  universally  profligate. 
While  the  law  denounces  covetousness.  they  are  almost 
to  a  man  dishonest,  rapacious,  prone  to  robbery,  and  to 
robbery  ending  in  blood.  The  law  forbids,  on  all  oc- 
casions, treachery  and  deceit,  and  yet,  from  the  highest 
to  the  lowest,  they  are  a  nation  of  liars.  When  de- 
tected in  the  grossest  falsehood,  they  indicate  no  con- 
sciousness of  shame,  and  even  pride  themselves  upon 
successful  deceit.  An  amusing  instance  of  national 
want  of  faith  occurred  towards  the  close  of  the  former 
Burman  war.  On  the  3d  of  January,  1826,  the  Bur- 
man  commander-in-chief  and  one  of  the  high  officers 
of  the  empire   signed  a  treaty  with   Sir  A.  Campbell, 


BUDDHISM.  151 

and  required  fifteen  days'  truce,  for  the  purpose  of 
sendins:  the  articles  to  Ava  for  the  sanction  of  the 
emperor.  The  fifteen  days  elapsed,  during  which,  in 
violation  of  the  armistice,  they  were  busily  engaged 
in  strengthening  their  defences;  and  the  ratifications 
did  not  arrive.  Hostilities  were  recommenced,  and 
the  Burman  general  was,  in  unexpected  haste,  driven 
from  his  head-quarters.  When  the  British  entered  the 
fort,  they  found  the  English  and  Burman  copies  of 
the  treaty  in  the  state  in  which  they  had  been  signed, 
they  never  having  been  even  transmitted  to  Ava.  In 
the  military  chest  were  also  found  thirty  thousand 
rupees  in  silver.  Sir  A.  Campbell  sent  the  copies  of 
the  treaty  to  the  woon-gyee,  with  a  note  stating  that  he 
supposed  he  had  merely  forgotten  them  in  the  hurry  of 
his  departure  from  Maloun.  The  woon-gyee  answered, 
with  much  coolness  and  good  humor,  "that  in  the 
same  hurry  he  had  also  left  behind  him  a  large  sum 
of  money,  which,  he  was  confident,  the  British  general 
only  waited  an  opportunity  of  returning."  * 

Respecting  the  practical  effect  of  this  system,  Mr. 
Upham  observes:  "The  scheme  is  sustained  by  a 
system  of  morals  of  the  most  exemplary  kind,  such 
as  may  cause  a  blush  of  shame  in  many  a  Christian 
who  feels  his  higher  privileges,  while  he  considers  the 
inferiority  of  his  practice  ;  but  this  system  is  absolutely 
powerless  to  enforce  or  fasten  its  dictates  upon  the 
conscience,  or  to  renovate  the  heart."f  Mr.  Upham  sus- 
tains his  view  of  the  practical  result  of  Buddhism  by  the 
following  quotation  from  Mr.  Judson,  whom  he  de- 
scribes as  one  who  has   had  the   best  opportunity  to 

*  Aumial  Register,  anno  1826,  p.  215. 
t  Upham's  History  of  Buddhism,  p.  102. 


152  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

eXfimine  it,  and  whose  coloring  be  declares  to  be 
strong,  but  faithful :  "  Let  those  who  plead  the  native 
innocence  and  purity  of  heathen  nations  visit  Burmah. 
The  system  of  religion  here  has  no  power  over  the 
heart  or  restraint  on  the  passions.  Though  it  forbids, 
on  pain  of  many  years'  suflering  in  hell,  theft  and  false- 
hood, yet,  I  presume  to  say,  there  is  not  a  single  Bur- 
man  in  the  country,  who,  if  he  had  a  good  opportunity, 
without  danger  of  detection,  would  hesitate  to  do 
either.  Though  the  religion  inculcates  benevolence, 
tenderness,  forgiveness  of  injuries,  and  love  of  ene- 
mies, —  though  it  forbids  sensuality,  love  of  pleasure, 
and  attachment  to  worldly  objects,  —  yet  it  is  destitute 
of  power  to  produce  the  former,  or  to  subdue  the 
latter,  in  its  votaries.  In  short,  the  Burman  system  of 
religion  is  like  an  alabaster  image,  perfect  and  beauti- 
ful in  all  its  parts,  but  destitute  of  life.  Besides  being 
destitute  of  life,  it  provides  no  atonement  for  sin. 
Here  also  the  gospel  triumphs  over  this  and  every 
other  religion  in  the  world." 

If,  now,  we  revert  to  what  we  have  stated  above, 
we  shall  perceive  that  the  Burman  empire  is  large  in 
extent,  and  that  its  soil  is  of  unusually  great  and 
varied  productiveness.  It  possesses  a  regular  govern- 
ment, by  which  the  decisions  of  the  court  are  carried 
with  effect  to  the  remotest  hamlet,  through  a  succession 
of  officers  proceeding  in  regular  gradation  from  the 
emperor  to  the  magistrate  of  the  smallest  district.  Its 
people  are  active,  athletic,  and  as  industrious  as  could 
be  expected  under  a  tyrannical  and  oppressive  govern- 
ment. A  large  portion  of  the  people  is  able  to  read. 
It  possesses  a  well-delined  system  of  religion,  and  a  regu- 
larly-organized priesthood.     But  the  whole  people  are 


BUDDHISM.  153 

destitute  of  any  semblance  either  of  piety  to  God  or 
benevolence  to  man.  They  have  no  hope,  and  are 
living  without  God  in  the  world.  They  have  acknowl- 
edged that  St.  Paul's  description  of  the  heathen,  in 
the  first  of  Romans,  delineates  accurately  the  national 
character.  Such  is  the  nation  which  Mr.  Judson  went 
forth  to  convert  to  the  religion  of  Jesus  Christ. 


CHAPTER    VI. 

ENTRAKCE  UrON  MISSIONARY  WORK.  —  HIS  VIEWS  OF  THAT 
WORK.  —  ACQUISITION  OF  THE  LANGUAGE.  —  PROGRESS  OF 
THE  MISSION.  — VOYAGE  TO  MADRAS. 

1813-1818. 

Mr.  Judson  having  now  arrived  in  Rangoon,  the 
principal  seaport  of  Burmah,  that  portion  of  the  heathen 
world  to  ^yhich  the  labors  of  his  future  life  were  to  be  de- 
voted, it  may  be  worth  while  to  pause  for  a  moment,  to 
consider  definitely  the  object  which  so  exclusively  con- 
trolled every  energy  of  his  soul.  His  life  was  unique 
and  consistent,  bearing  upon  one  point,  and  ever 
striving  to  realize  a  single  conception.  When  we 
know  the  principles  which  he  embraced,  and  the  man- 
ner in  which  he  felt  obliged  to  carry  them  into  prac- 
tice, we  are  at  once  enabled  to  estimate  his  character, 
and  take  a  just  view  of  his  services. 

Mr.  Judson  believed  that  the  race  of  man  was  cre- 
ated holy;  that  our  first  parents  sinned;  and  that,  in 
consequence  of  their  sin,  their  whole  posterity  have 
become  sinners.  He  believed  that,  in  consequence  of 
the  sin  of  each  individual,  every  descendant  of  Adam 
is  deserving  of  eternal  banishment  from  God  in  the 
life  to  come,  and  of  his  righteous  displeasure  in  the  life 
that  now  is.  He  thus  conceived  that  all  the  miseries, 
individual  and  social,  physical  and  moral,  which  we 
suffer  in  the  present  state,  are  the  consequences  of  sin  ; 
of  sin  which,  in  all  its  infinite  diversity,  may  be  traced 
to  the  alienation  of  our  moral  affections  from  God. 

154 


VIEWS    OF    THE    MISSIONARY    AVORK.  155 

If  snch  be  the  fact,  it  is  evident  that,  without  a  reme- 
dial dispensation,  the  race  of  man  must  be  doomed  to 
misery,  temporal  and  eternal. 

Bat  Mr.  Judson  believed  that  a  remedial  dispensa- 
tion had  been  devised.  "  God  so  loved  the  world  that 
he  gave  his  only-begotten  Son,  that  whosoever  believ- 
eth  on  him  should  not  perish,  but  have  everlasting 
life ;  "  that  in  consequence  of  the  incarnation,  obedi- 
ence, and  sufferings  of  Christ,  a  free  and  full  pardon 
is  now  oflered  to  all  the  race  of  man,  who,  in  sincere 
repentance  for  sin,  commit  themselves,  in  humble  trust, 
to  the  mercy  of  God  through  the  mediation  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Thus  the  affections  of  the  heart,  by  nature 
estranged  from  God,  are  restored  to  him  again,  and 
the  radical  moral  evil  of  the  soul  being  corrected, 
there  will  flow  from  it,  by  necessity,  the  fruits  of  jus- 
tice and  charity,  and  man,  individual  and  social,  trans- 
formed in  the  image  of  his  mind,  will  awake  to  a  life 
of  righteousness. 

But  still  further,  Mr.  Judson  believed  that  God  had 
promised  that  this  work  of  Christ  Jesus  should  not  be 
in  vain,  but  that  the  whole  w^orld  should  yet  yield  a 
cheerful  and  happy  obedience  to  the  Prince  of  peace  ; 
that  the  Holy  Spirit  should  with  irresistible  energy  ac- 
company the  proclamation  of  the  message  of  salvation 
wherever  the  gospel  shall  be  preached  in  simple  and 
earnest  faith  :  so  that  the  means  are  amply  provided 
for  carrying  forward  the  regeneration  of  our  race. 
This  provision  having  been  made,  Jesus  Christ  has 
imposed  upon  every  one  of  his  disciples  the  duty  of 
making  known  the  good  news  of  salvation  to  his  fel- 
low men,  with  the  promise  that  he  will  attend  the 
delivery  of  this  message  with  his  ever-present  aid. 
"  Go  ye,"  said  he,  "  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the 


156  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

gospel  to  every  creature  ;  and  lo,  I  am  with  you  always, 
even  unto  the  end  of  the  world." 

Mr.  Judson  believed  himself  to  be  a  disciple  of 
Christ,  saved  from  condemnation  through  the  merits 
of  the  Redeemer ;  he  acknowledged  his  personal  ob- 
ligation to  obey  this  last  command  of  his  ascended 
Redeemer;  nay,  more,  he  was  satisfied  that  he  had 
been  called  to  devote  his  life  to  this  service.  Holding- 
such  a  belief,  and  acknowledging  such  obligations,  he 
consecrated  his  whole  being  to  the  work,  and  with 
this  consecration  he  allowed  nothing  else  whatever  to 
interfere. 

The  providence  of  God  clearly  directed  him  to  the 
empire  of  Burmah.  He  felt  assured  that  he  was  thus 
sent,  as  the  herald  of  Christ,  to  preach  the  gospel  of 
peace  to  this  benighted  people.  There  was  not,  at  the 
time  of  his  arrival  at  Rangoon,  a  single  native  who 
had  embraced  the  religion  of  Jesus.  He  was  aware 
of  the  oppression  and  cruelty  of  the  rulers,  and  of  the 
wickedness  and  misery  of  the  people  ;  he  knew  that 
they  were  steeped  in  an  idolatry  that  had  become  ven- 
erable by  antiquity ;  yet  he  believed  that  in  the  gospel 
there  existed  the  sovereign  remedy  for  all  these  evils. 
He  doubted  not  that,  when  the  gospel  should  be 
preached,  the  sinful  nature  of  men  would  be  trans- 
formed into  the  holy  image  of  Christ;  that  every  con- 
vert would  become  a  centre  of  moral  illumination  ; 
that  thus,  by  its  own  inherent  power  of  indefinite  ex- 
pansion, the  gospel  would  spread  on  every  side  among 
the  people,  until  the  temples  of  Gaadama  should  be 
deserted,  the  moral  character  of  men  be  renewed,  and 
Burmah  become  a  kingdom  of  our  Lord  and  of  his 
Christ. 

His  object,  then,  was  to  accomplish  the  most  stu- 


VIEWS    OF    THE    MISSIONARY    WORK.  157 

pendoLis  revolution  of  which  we  can  conceive  in  this 
whole  people ;  it  was  nothing  less  than  an  entire  trans- 
formation of  the  moral  character  of  every  individual. 
The  means  by  which  this  was  to  be  accomplished  was 
very  simple.  It  was  the  announcement  of  the  message 
from  God  to  man,  attended  by  the  omnipotent  power 
of  the  Spirit  of  God.  He  believed  that  this  work 
would  thus  be  accomplished  simply  because  God  had 
promised  it. 

The  instrument  on  which  he  relied  for  success  w^as 
the  preaching  of  the  gospel.  But  he  knew  not  a  word 
of  the  language  in  which  he  was  to  offer  to  men  the 
blessings  of  eternal  life.  This  language  must  first  be 
acquired  and  thoroughly  mastered.  He  must  learn  it 
as  perfectly  as  his  vernacular  tongue,  so  that  he  might 
transfer  into  it,  with  exact  accuracy,  the  lively  oracles 
of  God.  The  Burmans  are  a  reading  people.  They 
have  their  religious  books,  and  possess  the  teachings 
of  Gaudama  in  their  own  language.  They  demanded 
our  Scriptures,  that  they  might  read  for  themselves  the 
doctrines  which  were  delivered  to  them  orally.  Hence 
it  was  evident  that  the  Bible  must  be  placed  in  their 
hands  as  soon  as  the  missionary  was  prepared  to 
preach  to  them  the  unsearchable  riches  of  Christ. 

To  the  attainment  of  the  language,  therefore,  JVIr. 
Judson  at  once  addressed  himself,  combining  with  his 
studies,  at  as  early  a  period  as  possible,  the  work  of 
translation.  The  aids  which  he  could  command  were 
meagre.  It  is  true  that  the  English  Baptists  had  es- 
tablished a  mission  in  Rangoon  as  early  as  1807,  under 
the  care  of  Messrs.  Chater  and  Mardon.  Mr.  Mardon, 
after  a  few  months,  left  the  station,  and  Mr.  Chater 
was  joined  by  Mr.  Felix  Carey,  the  eldest  son  of  Dr. 
Carey,  of  Serampore.     Soon  after,  Messrs.  Pritchett 

VOL.   I.  14 


158  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

and  Brain,  of  the  London  Missionary  Society,  arrived ; 
but  Mr.  Brain  soon  died,  and  Mr.  Pritchett,  after  a 
year's  residence,  removed  to  Vizagapatarn.  Mr.  Cha- 
ter  remained  four  years,  and  made  considerable  prog- 
ress in  the  language.  He  translated  the  Gospel  by 
Matthew,  which  was  revised  by  Mr.  Carey,  and  pub- 
lished at  Serampore.  At  length  Mr.  Chater  relin- 
quished the  mission,  and  removed  to  Ceylon.  Mr. 
Carey  remained,  and  was  joined  by  a  young  man  from 
Calcutta,  who  soon  quitted  the  station.  When  Mr. 
Judson  arrived,  Mr.  Carey  had  gone  to  Ava,  by  order 
of  the  king.  "  Mrs.  Carey,  who  was  a  native  of  the 
country,  still  resided  at  Rangoon,  in  the  mission  house, 
which  Mr.  Chater  had  erected  in  a  pleasant  rural 
spot,  almost  half  a  mile  from  the  walls  of  the  town."  * 
By  these  gentlemen  some  progress  had  been  made 
in  the  language.  Mr.  Carey  had  printed  a  grammar; 
but  its  inaccuracies  were  such  that  I  have  never  once 
seen  it  referred  to  by  students  of  Burman.  He  and 
Mr.  Chater  had  also  translated  the  Gospel  by  Mat- 
thew ;  but  the  work  was  done  so  incorrectly  that  I 
believe  it  was  never  put  into  circulation.  Mr.  Carey, 
who  at  this  time  was  in  attendance  at  the  court 
of  Ava,  soon  entered  the  service  of  the  king,  was 
promoted,  lost  his  rank,  left  the  mission,  and  relin- 
quished the  ministry.  The  reliable  helps,  therefore, 
were  few ;  and  Mr.  Judson  was  obliged  to  commence 
the  work  almost  de  novo,  and,  as  he  advanced,  to 
prosecute  it  by  his  own  unaided  efforts. 

*  Knowles's  Memoir  of  Mrs.  Jtidson.  The  house,  however,  was 
by  no  means  pleasantly  situated.  It  was  near  the  place  of  public 
execution,  where  all  the  offal  of  the  city  was  thrown,  and  not  far  from 
the  place  for  burning  the  dead.  It  was  beyond  the  protection  of  the 
walls,  exposed  to  wild  beasts  and  almost  as  wild  men.  They  after- 
wards removed  into  the  city. 


VIEWS    OF    THE    MISSIONARY    WORK.  159 

The  attainments  which  he  made  in  the  language 
were  considered  in  India  to  be  of  the  very  highest 
order.  He  wrote  and  spoke  it  with  the  familiarity 
of  a  native  and  the  elegance  of  a  cultivated  scholar. 
At  an  early  period  of  his  study,  he  prepared  a  brief 
grammar  of  the  language  for  the  use  of  mission- 
aries, and  modestly  entitled  it  "  Grammatical  No- 
tices," which,  twenty  years  afterwards,  (in  1842,) 
was  printed  at  the  mission  press  at  Maulmain.  Of 
this  work  a  late  writer  in  the  "Calcutta  Review" 
speaks  as  follows  :  "  He  [Dr.  Judson]  published  an- 
other work,  a  grammar  of  no  pretensions,  and  of  very 
small  dimensions,  yet  a  manual  which  indicated  the 
genius  of  the  man,  perhaps,  more  strikingly  than  any 
thing  else,  except  his  Bible.  He  has  managed,  from 
a  thorough  knowledge  of  the  language,  to  condense 
into  a  few  short  pages  [only  seventy-six]  a  most 
complete  grammar  of  this  difficult  tongue ;  and,  as 
the  student  grows  in  knowledge,  pari  passu,  this 
little  volume  rises  in  his  estimation  ;  for  its  lucid, 
comprehensive  conciseness  becomes  more  and  more 
manifest.  In  our  limited  acquaintance  with  lan- 
guages, whether  of  the  East  or  West,  we  have  seen 
no  work  in  any  tongue  which  we  should  compare 
with  it  for  brevity  and  completeness  ;  yet  we  have,  in 
our  day,  had  to  study  and  wade  through  some  long 
and  some  would-be  short  grammars." 

This  thoroughness  of  knowledge  of  the  language 
could,  of  course,  be  the  result  of  nothing  but  a  very 
extensive  acquaintance  with  Burman  literature.  Yet 
he  considered  this  knowledge,  in  his  case,  as  valueless, 
except  in  so  far  as  it  enabled  him  the  better  to  present 
a  perfect  transcript  of  the  word  of  God  in  the  Burman 
language.      In   the   strictness  with   which   he   carried 


160  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

out  his  principles  on  this  subject,  there  is  much  that 
is  worthy  of  distinct  remark.  He  had  a  natural  fa- 
cility for  the  acquisition  of  languages,  and  great  fond- 
ness for  linguistic  researches ;  yet  he  acquired  no 
language  of  the  East,  except  the  Burman.  lie  was 
strongly  attached  to  physical  science,  and  his  re- 
searches in  this  direction  might  have  acquired  for  him 
great  reputation,  and,  as  many  good  men  might  be- 
lieve, would  have  given  to  the  mission  a  desirable 
standing  with  scientific  men  ;  yet  he  never  published 
a  line  on  these  subjects,  and  he  even  discouraged  a 
taste  for  such  pursuits  among  his  missionary  brethren. 
He  had  become  fully  aware  of  the  temptations  to 
which  missionaries  are  exposed  when  the  treasures  of 
a  new  language  and  of  a  peculiar  form  of  literature 
are  presented  before  them,  and  he  therefore  guarded 
himself  with  peculiar  strictness.  At  one  time,  he  had 
found  the  literature  of  Burmah  exceedingly  fasci- 
nating, especially  its  poetry ;  and  he  had  sundry 
pleasant  visions  of  enriching  the  world  of  English 
literature  from  its  curious  stores.  He,  for  a  moment, 
flattered  himself  that,  by  interesting  the  Christian 
world  in  Burmah  through  her  literature,  he  should 
open  the  floodgates  of  sympathy  so  as  to  bring  about 
her  emancipation  from  pagan  thraldom.  But  the 
dream  was  soon  dispelled.  He  saw  that  such  an 
appropriation  of  his  time  would  lead  him  aside  from 
the  peculiar  work  to  which  God  had  called  him ;  and, 
though  perfectly  familiar  with  more  than  a  hundred 
Burman  tales,  and  able  to  repeat  Burman  poetry  by 
the  hour,  he  never  committed  a  line  to  paper.  He 
was  fond  of  searching  into  doubtful  histories  and 
mousing  among  half  fabulous  antiquities,  and  Bur- 
mah  presented   an  alluring  field  for  this  sort  of  re- 


VIEWS    OF    THE    MISSIONARY    WORK.  161 

search  ;  yet  he  not  only  resi^^ted  his  own  natural 
tendencies,  but  took  care  never  to  excite  in  the  minds 
of  others  an  interest  in  things  of  this  sort.  He  ad- 
mitted nothing  into  the  library  of  native  books  (palm 
leaf  books,  selected  by  himself,  but  the  property  of 
the  mission)  which  would  cultivate  a  taste  for  these 
comparatively  trivial  things.  He  was  revered  and 
caressed  by  the  best  society  in  India,  yet  he  religiously 
kept  aloof  from  it ;  and  not  all  the  representations  of 
his  friends  could  induce  him  to  turn  from  his  work  to 
relieve  the  spiritual  w^ants  of  Englishmen,  or  preach 
before  an  English  congregation.* 

It  will  not,  of  course,  be  supposed,  by  any  one 
who  knew  Dr.  Judson,  that  he  was  deficient  in  love  of 
t-he  beautiful,  or  wanting  in  zeal  for  the  diffusion  of 
knowledge.  He  did  not  proscribe  such  studies  as  I 
have  alluded  to  as  sinful,  nor  would  he  make  rules  for 
missionaries  stricter  than  those  for  other  Christians. 
He  believed  that  there  were  temptations  to  which 
missionaries  in  unexplored  fields  are  exposed,  which 
are  utterly  destructive  of  usefulness,  and  may  not 
be  tampered  w^ith  even  for  a  moment.  He  looked 
upon  a  missionary  as  consecrated  to  a  peculiar  work, 
a  work  of  incomparably  greater  importance  than  any 
other  on  earth,  and  he  believed  that  it  can  only 
be  successfully  prosecuted  by  consecrating  to  it  ex- 
clusively the  entire  energies  of  the  soul.  As  How- 
ard, when  he  visited  Rome,  left  unnoticed  the  impres- 
sive monuments  of  ancient  grandeur,  and  spent  his 
time  wholly  in  dungeons  and  prisons,  so  Dr.  Judson 
believed  that  he  who  has  undertaken  to  deliver  a  nation 
from   the  thraldom  of  sin   has  objects  in  view  more 

*  Manuscript  notes. 
14* 


162  MEMOIR    OF    DR.   JUDSON. 

important  than  the  researches  of  antiquaries  or  the 
companionship  of  savans.  It  were  well  if  this  ex- 
clusive devotion  to  substantially  the  same  object  gov- 
erned the  lives  of  ministers  at  home  as  well  as  of 
missionaries  abroad. 

The  following  anecdote  will  place  in  a  clear  light 
Dr.  Judson's  views  on  this  subject.  Not  long  before 
his  death,  a  gentleman  of  Calcutta,  a  member  of  a 
literary  society  in  that  city,  proposed  that  Mrs.  Jud- 
son  shoul4  translate  the  Life  of  Gaudama  into  English, 
to  be  published  by  the  society.  Dr.  Jiidson  replied, 
that  as  Mrs.  Judson's  health  was  suffering  from  too 
severe  study,  he  was  not  sure  that  a  light  work  of  this 
nature  would  be  objectionable.  As  the  proposal  was 
intended  to  be,  and  it  really  was,  both  kind  and 
complimentary,  the  gentleman  seemed  disconcerted, 
until  Mrs.  Judson  remarked,  that  her  husband  con- 
sidered many  things  perfectly  proper,  and  even  desi- 
rable, on  the  part  of  others,  "  objectionable "  in  a 
missionary.  In  fact,  Mr.  Judson  disapproved  of  mis- 
sionary contributions  made  either  to  literature  or 
science,  even  as  a  recreation ;  for  he  insisted  that  they 
could  not  be  made  with  safety,  and  that  nothing 
reliable  could  be  accomplished  without  a  draught  on 
those  energies  which  should  be  devoted  to  higher 
objects.  Illustrations  of  the  truth  of  his  views  he 
found  in  the  history  of  some  modern  missions.  He 
believed  in  general  that  the  ministry  is  from  its  nature 
a  self-denying  employment.  He  who  expects  to  in- 
dulge in  worldly  amusement,  or  spend  his  time  in 
cultivating  literary  tastes  or  secular  science,  had  better 
seek  some  other  profession.  This  is  specially  true  of 
a  missionary.     His  work  is  great,  the  laborers  are  few, 


THE    MISSION    ESTABLISHED.  163 

the  temptations  are  alluring,  and  every  thing  binds  him 
to  exclusive  consecration  to  his  work. 

But  while  Mr.  Judson  felt  that  his  appropriate  field 
was  Burmah,  and  nothing  but  Burmah,  he  gave  to 
this  field  no  peculiar  preeminence.  The  whole  heathen 
WQild  was  always  in  his  view.  He  was  ever  suggest- 
ing to  the  board  new  fields  of  labor,  and  he  w^as  con- 
stantly bringing  before  the  mercy  seat,  in  his  most 
retired  hours  of  devotion,  particular  nations  who  had 
not  yet  attracted  the  attention  of  the  friends  of  mis- 
sions. Thus,  at  Maulmain,  he  was  always  urging  his 
brethren,  and  specially  those  whom  he  most  highly 
esteemed,  and  whose  society  he  most  enjoyed,  to 
establish  new  missions  in  neighboring  unevangelized 
countries.  In  no  case,  however,  did  he  propose  any 
labor  to  them  which  he  was  not  willing  to  undertake 
himself.  He  desired  that  every  one  of  them,  as  far  as 
possible,  should  be  a  new  centre  of  gospel  light,  and 
he  wished  such  centres  to  be  multiplied  as  widely  as 
possible.  If  the  station  at  Maulmain  has  been  the 
means  of  diffusing  the  knowledge  of  salvation  to  other 
and  distant  regions  of  India,  this  result  has  been 
ow^ing,  I  apprehend,  more  to  Dr.  Judson's  counsels, 
labors,  and  prayers,  than  to  those  of  any  other  indi- 
vidual. 

The  letters  which  follow  will  present  a  tolerably 
connected  view  of  the  establishment  and  progress  of 
the  mission  from  the  arrival  of  Mr.  Judson  at  Ran- 
goon to  his  return  from  the  voyage  to  Madras,  Au- 
gust 2,  1818 :  — 

Extract  from  Mrs.  Judson's  Journal,  commencing,  Septeiyiber,  1813. 

Our  home  is  in  the  mission  house  built  by  the  English 
Baptist  Society,  on  the  first  arrival  of  Messrs.  Chater  and 
Carey  in  this  country.     It  is  large  and  convenient,  situated  in 


164  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    .TUDSON. 

a  rural  place,  about  half  a  mile  from  the  walls  of  the  town. 
We  have  gardens  enclosed,  containing  about  two  acres  of 
ground,  full  of  fruit  trees  of  various  kinds.  In  the  dry  sea- 
son our  situation  is  very  agreeable.  We  often  enjoy  a  pleas- 
ant walk,  within  our  own  enclosure,  or  in  some  of  the  adjoin- 
ing villages. 

September  20.  This  is  the  first  Sabbath  that  we  have 
united  in  commemorating  the  dying  love  of  Christ  at  his 
table.  Though  but  two  in  number,  we  feel  the  command  as 
binding,  and  the  privilege  as  great,  as  if  there  were  more,  and 
we  have  indeed  found  it  refreshing  to  our  souls. 

December  11.  To-day,  for  the  first  time,  I  have  visited 
the  wife  of  the  viceroy.  I  was  introduced  to  her  by  a  French 
lady,  who  has  frequently  visited  her.  When  we  first  arrived 
at  the  government  house,  she  was  not  up  ;  consequently  we  had 
to  wait  some  time.  But  the  inferior  wives  of  the  viceroy 
diverted  us  much  by  their  curiosity  in  minutely  examining 
every  thing  we  had  on,  and  by  trying  on  our  gloves,  bonnets, 
&c.  At  last  her  highness  made  her  appearance,  dressed 
richly  in  the  Burman  fashion,  with  a  long  silver  pipe  at  hei 
mouth,  smoking.  At  her  appearance,  all  the  other  wives  took 
their  seats  at  a  respectful  distance,  and  sat  in  a  crouching  pos- 
ture, without  speaking.  She  received  me  very  politely,  took 
me  by  the  hand,  seated  me  upon  a  mat,  and  herself  by  me. 
She  excused  herself  for  not  coming  in  sooner,  saying  she  was 
unwell.  One  of  the  women  brought  her  a  bunch  of  flowers, 
of  which  she  took  several,  and  ornamented  her  cap.  She  was 
very  inquisitive  whether  I  had  a  husband  and  children ; 
whether  I  was  my  husband's  first  wife;  meaning  by  this, 
whether  I  was  the  highest  among  them,  supposing  that  my 
husband,  like  the  Burmans,  had  many  wives ;  and  whether  I 
intended  tarrying  long  in  the  country. 

When  the  viceroy  came  in,  I  really  trembled,  for  I  never 
before  beheld  such  a  savage-looking  creature.  His  long  robe 
and  enormous  spear  not  a  little  increased  my  dread.  He 
spoke  to  me,  however,  very  condescendingly,  and  asked  if  I 
would  drink  some  rum  or  wine.     When  I  arose  to  go,  her 


THE    MISSION    ESTABLISHED.  165 

highness  again  took  mj  hand,  told  me  she  was  happy  to  see 
me ;  that  I  must  come  to  see  her  every  day,  for  I  was  hke  a 
sister  to  her.  She  led  me  to  the  door,  and  I  made  my  salaam, 
and  departed.  My  only  ol)ject  in  visiting  her  was,  that,  if  we 
should  get  into  any  difficulty  with  the  Burmans,  I  could  have 
access  to  her,  when  perhaps  it  would  not  be  possible  for  Mr. 
Judson  to  get  access  to  the  viceroy.  One  can  obtain  almost 
any  favor  from  her  by  making  a  small  present.  We  intend 
to  have  as  little  to  do  with  government  people  as  possible,  as 
our  usefulness  will  probably  be  among  the  common  people. 
Mr.  Judson  lately  visited  the  viceroy,  when  he  scarcely 
deigned  to  look  at  him,  as  English  men  are  no  uncommon 
sight  in  this  country ;  but  an  English  female  is  quite  a 
curiosity. 

January  11,  1814.  Yesterday  we  left  the  mission  house, 
and  moved  into  one  in  town,  partly  through  fear  of  robbers, 
and  partly  for  the  sake  of  being  more  with  the  natives,  and 
learning  more  of  their  liabits  and  manners.  We  shall  also  be 
in  a  way  of  getting  the  language  much  quicker,  as  we  shall 
hear  it  spoken  much  more  frequently  than  we  could  in  the 
other  house. 

From  Mrs.  Judson  to  Rev.  Samuel  Newell. 

Raxgoox,  April  23,  1814. 
My  dear  Brother  Newell  :  As  Mr.  Judson  will  not 
have  time  to  write  you  by  this  opportunity,  I  will  endeavor 
to  give  you  some  idea  of  our  situation  here,  and  of  our  plans 
and  prospects.  We  have  found  the  country,  as  we  expected, 
in  a  most  deplorable  state,  full  of  darkness,  idolatry,  and 
cruelty  —  full  of  commotion  and  uncertainty.  We  daily  feel 
that  the  existence  and  perpetuity  of  this  mission,  still  in  an 
infant  state,  depend  in  a  peculiar  manner  on  the  interposing 
hand  of  Providence  ;  and  from  this  impression  alone  we  are 
encouraged  still  to  remain.  As  it  respects  our  temporal  pri- 
vations, use  has  made  them  famihar,  and  easy  to  be  borne  ; 
they  are  of  short  duration,  and  when  brought  in  competition 
with  the  worth  of  immortal   souls,  sink  into   nothing.     We 


166  M E:\roiR  of  dk.  judson. 

have  no  society,  no  dear  Christian  friends,  and  with  the  ex- 
ception of  two  or  three  sea  captains,  who  now  and  then  call 
on  us,  we  never  see  a  European  face.  But  then  we  are  still 
happy  in  each  other;  still  find  tliat  our  own  home  is  our  best, 
our  dearest  friend.  When  we  feel  a  disposition  to  sigh  for  the 
enjoyments  of  our  native  country,  we  turn  our  eyes  on  the 
miserable  objects  around.  We  behold  some  of  them  laboring 
hard  for  a  scanty  subsistence,  oppressed  by  an  avaricious  gov- 
ernment, which  is  ever  ready  to  seize  what  industry  had 
hardly  earned ;  we  behold  others  sick  and  diseased,  daily  beg- 
ging the  few  grains  of  rice  which,  when  obtained,  are  scarcely 
sufficient  to  protract  their  w^retched  existence,  and  with  no 
other  habitation  to  screen  them  from  the  burning  sun,  or  chilly 
rains,  than  what  a  small  piece  of  cloth  raised  on  four  bamboos 
under  a  tree  can  afford.  While  we  behold  these  scenes,  we 
feel  that  we  have  all  the  comforts,  and,  in  comparison,  even 
the  luxuries,  of  life.  We  feel  that  our  temporal  cup  of  bless- 
ings is  full,  and  runneth  over.  But  is  our  temporal  lot  so 
much  superior  to  theirs  ?  O,  how  infinitely  superior  our 
spiritual  blessings !  While  they  vainly  imagine  to  purchase 
promotion  in  another  state  of  existence  by  strictly  worshipping 
their  idols  and  building  pagodas,  our  hopes  of  future  happi- 
ness are  fixed  on  the  Lamb  of  God  who  taketh  away  the  sin 
of  the  world.  When  we  have  a  realizing  sense  of  these 
things,  my  dear  brother,  we  forget  our  native  country  and  for- 
mer enjoyments,  feel  contented  and  happy  with  our  lot,  with 
but  one  wish  remaining  —  that  of  being  instrumental  of  leading 
these  Burmans  to  partake  of  the  same  source  of  happiness 
with  ourselves. 

Respecting  our  plans,  we  have  at  present  but  one  —  that  of 
applying  ourselves  closely  to  the  acquirement  of  the  language, 
and  to  have  as  little  to  do  Avith  government  as  possible. 
Brother  Carey  has  never  yet  preached  in  Burman,  but  has 
made  considerable  progress  towards  the  completion  of  a  gram- 
mar and  dictionary,  which  are  a  great  help  to  us.  At  present. 
however,  his  time  is  entirely  taken  up  with  government 
affairs.     It  is  now  almost  a  year  since  he  was  ordered  up  to 


ACQUISITION    OF    THE    LANGUAGE.  167 

Ava,  which  time  has  been  wholly  occupied  in  the  king's 
business.  He  has  just  returned  from  Bengal,  and  is  now- 
making  preparations  for  Ava,  where  he  expects  to  found  a 
new  mission  station.  His  family  go  with  him ;  consequently 
we  shall  be  alone  until  the  arrival  of  brother  Rice,  who,  we 
hope,  will  arrive  in  six  or  seven  months. 

Our  progress  in  the  language  is  slow,  as  it  is  peculiarly 
hard  of  acquisition.  We  can,  however,  read,  write,  and  con- 
verse with  tolerable  ease,  and  frequently  spend  whole  even- 
ings very  pleasantly  in  conversing  with  our  Burman  friends. 
We  have  been  very  fortunate  in  procuring  good  teachers. 
Mr.  Judson's  teacher  is  a  very  learned  man,  was  formerly  a 
priest,  and  resided  at  court.  He  has  a  thorough  knowledge 
of  the  grammatical  construction  of  the  language,  likewise  of 
the  Pali,  the  learned  language  of  the  Burmans. 

Mr.  Judson  to  the  Bev.  Mr.  Emerson. 

Rangoox,  January  7,  1814. 
Dear  Brother  Emerson  :  It  is  nearly  a  year  since  I 
wrote  to  America,  my  last  being  forwarded  by  brother  Rice. 
I  have  had  no  opportunity  of  conveyance  since  that  time,  nor 
have  I  any  at  present.  I  intend  to  send  this  to  England, 
hoping  that  on  its  arrival  the  war  may  have  terminated,  or 
that  it  may  find  a  conveyance  in  a  despatch  vessel.  We  have 
been  here  about  six  months  ;  have  been  living  in  the  mission 
house,  with  brother  F.  Carey's  family,  but  expect  within  a 
few  days  to  take  a  house  within  the  walls  of  the  town,  on  ac- 
count of  the  bands  of  robbers  which  infest  all  the  country,  and 
which  have  lately  been  very  numerous  and  daring.  Our 
situation  is  much  more  comfortable  than  we  expected  it  would 
be  in  such  a  country.  We  enjoy  good  health,  and  though  de- 
prived of  all  congenial  Christian  society,  we  are  very  happy 
in  each  other,  and  think  we  frequently  enjoy  his  presence 
whose  smile  can  turn  the  darkest  night  to  day,  and  whose 
favor  is  the  fountain  of  all  happiness.  "  Peace  I  leave  with 
you  —  my  peace  I  give  unto  you."  There  has  yet  been  but 
very  little  effected  in  this  country  to  any  real  missionary  pur- 


168  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

pose.  Brother  Carey's  time  is  greatly  occupied  in  government 
matters.  The  emperor  has  given  him  a  title,  and  requires 
him  to  reside  in  the  capital.  He  is  just  now  going  to  Bengal 
on  his  majesty's  business,  and  expects,  after  his  return,  to  re- 
side at  Ava.  Not  a  single  Burman  has  yet  been  brought  to  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth,  or  even  to  serious  inquiry.  In  all  the 
affairs  of  this  government,  despotism  and  rapine  are  the  order 
of  the  day.  The  present  viceroy  of  this  province  is  a  savage 
man.  Life  and  death  depend  on  his  nod.  He  is  very  large 
in  stature,  and  when  he  stalks  about  with  his  long  spear, 
every  body  shrinks  from  before  him.  I  called  on  him  once, 
but  he  scarcely  looked  at  me.  Ann  waited  on  her  highness, 
and  was  much  better  received.  This  man  is  about  to  be  re- 
called to  Ava,  and  it  is  doubtful  whether  he  will  return.  Dur- 
ing the  interim  we  expect  all  things  will  be  in  confusion,  and 
this  is  one  reason  why  we  desire  to  get  within  the  walls  of 
the  city. 

My  only  object  at  present  is  to  prosecute,  in  a  still,  quiet 
manner,  the  study  of  the  language,  trusting  that  for  all  the 
future  "  God  will  provide."  We  have  this  consolation,  that  it 
was  the  evident  dispensation  of  God  which  brought  us  to  this 
country  ;  and  still  further,  that  if  the  world  was  all  before  us, 
where  to  choose  our  place  of  rest,  we  should  not  desire  to  leave 
Burmah.  Our  chief  anxiety  is  that  brother  Rice  may  not  be 
able  to  join  us  again ;  but  even  this  we  desire  to  leave  in  his 
hands  who  doeth  all  things  well. 

Your  affectionate  brother  in  the  Lord  Jesus, 

A.  JuDSON,  Jr. 

Mrs.  Judson  had  not  been  long  in  Rangoon  before  her 
health  began  to  suffer  from  the  effects  of  the  climate. 
In  January,  1815,  her  symptoms  became  alarming,  and 
on  the  25th  of  that  month  she  sailed  to  Madras  for 
medical  advice.  She  was  received  by  the  residents  of 
that  city,  and  especially  by  the  English  missionaries, 
with    the    kindest  hospitality.     Her  health   was  soon 


ACQUISITION    OF    THE    LANGUAGE.  169 

restored,  under  the  skiJful  care  of  the  medical  gentle- 
men there,  and  she  returned  to  Rangoon  on  the  13th 
of  April.  During  her  absence,  IVIi'.  Judson  wrote  the 
following  letter  to  a  friend  :  — 

There  is  not  an  individual  in  the  country  that  I  can  pray 
with,  and  not  a  single  soul  with  whom  I  can  have  the  least 
religious  communion.  I  keep  myself  as  busy  as  possible  all 
day  long,  from  sunrise  till  late  in  the  evening,  in  reading  Bur- 
man,  and  conversing  with  the  natives.  I  have  been  here  a 
year  and  a  half,  and  so  extremely  difficult  is  the  language  — 
perhaps  the  most  difficult  to  a  foreigner  of  any  on  the  face  of 
the  earth,  next  to  the  Chinese — that  I  find  myself  very  in- 
adequate to  communicate  divine  truth  intelUgibly.  I  have,  in 
some  instances,  been  so  happy  as  to  secure  the  attention,  and 
in  some  degree  to  interest  the  feelings,  of  those  who  heard  me  ; 
but  I  am  not  acquainted  with  a  single  instance  in  which  any 
permanent  impression  has  been  produced.  No  Burman  has, 
I  believe,  ever  felt  the  grace  of  God  ;  and  what  can  a  solitary, 
feeble  individual  or  two  expect  to  be  the  means  of  effecting  in 
such  a  land  as  this,  amid  the  triumphs  of  Satan,  the  darkness 
of  death  ?  The  Lord  is  all  powerful,  wise,  and  good  ;  and  this 
consideration  alone  always  affords  me  unfaihng  consolation 
and  support.     Adieu,  &c.  A.  Judson,  Jr. 

Additional  Extracts  from  Mrs.  Judson' s  Journal  after  her  Return. 

April  16,  1815.  Mr.  Carey  has  lately  returned  from  Cal- 
cutta, and  much  refreshed  our  minds  with  letters  and  intelli- 
gence from  our  friends  there.  We  are  so  much  debarred  from 
all  social  intercourse  with  the  rest  of  the  Christian  world,  that 
the  least  intelligence  we  receive  from  our  friends  is  a  great 
luxury.  We  feel  more  and  more  convinced  that  the  gospel 
must  be  introduced  into  this  country  thi'ough  many  trials  and 
difficulties,  through  much  self-denial  and  earnest  prayer.  The 
strong  prejudices  of  the  Burmans,  their  foolish  conceit  of 
superiority  over  other  nations,  the  wickedness  of  their  lives, 

VOL.    I.  15 


170  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

together  with  the  plausibility  of  their  own  religious  tenets, 
make  a  formidable  appearance  in  the  way  of  their  receiving 
the  strict  requirements  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus.  But  all  things 
are  possible  with  God,  and  he  is  our  only  hope  and  confidence. 
He  can  make  mountains  become  valleys,  and  dry  places 
streams  of  water. 

August  20.  To-day  Mr.  Carey,  wife,  and  family  left  us  for 
Ava,  where  they  expect  to  live.  "We  are  now  alone  in  this 
great  house,  and  almost  alone  as  it  respects  the  whole  world. 
We  are  daily  expecting  dear  brother  and  sister  Hough,  when 
we  hope  our  lonely  hours  will  be  more  than  repaid  with  their 
society.  If  it  were  not  that  Burmah  presents  such  an  un- 
bounded field  for  missionary  exertions,  we  would  not  be  con- 
tented to  stay  in  this  miserable  land.  But  we  are  convinced 
that  we  are  in  the  very  situation  in  which  our  heavenly 
Father  would  have  us  to  be ;  and  if  we  were  to  leave  it  for 
the  sake  of  enjoying  a  few  more  temporal  comforts,  we  should 
have  no  reason  to  expect  his  blessing  on  our  exertions.  We 
frequently  receive  letters  from  our  Christian  friends  in  this 
part  of  the  world,  begging  us  to  leave  a  field  so  entirely  rough 
and  uncultivated,  the  soil  of  which  is  so  unpromising,  and 
enter  one  which  presents  a  more  plentiful  harvest.  God  grant 
that  we  may  live  and  die  among  the  Burmans,  though  we 
should  never  do  any  thing  more  than  smooth  the  way  for 
others. 

September  3.  Heard  the  dreadful  intelligence  of  the  loss 
of  Mr.  Carey's  vessel,  his  wife,  and  children,  and  all  his  prop- 
erty. He  barely  escaped  with  his  life.  How  soon  are  all  his 
hopes  blasted  !  He  set  out  to  go  to  Ava  in  a  brig  which  be- 
longed to  the  Burman  government ;  had  got  his  furniture,  medi- 
cine, wearing  apparel,  &c.,  on  board.  The  brig  had  been  in  the 
river  about  ten  days,  when  she  upset,  and  immediately  went 
down.  Mrs.  Carey,  two  children,  all  the  women  servants, 
and  some  of  the  men  servants,  who  could  not  swim,  were 
lost.  Mr.  Carey  endeavored  to  save  his  little  boy,  three 
years  old  ;  but  finding  himself  going  down,  was  obliged  to  give 
up  the  child.     Thus  far  from  my  journal. 


ACQUISITION    OF    THE    LANGUAGE.  171 

As  it  respects  ourselves,  we  are  busily  employed  all  day 
long,  and  I  can  assure  you  that  we  find  much  pleasure  in  our 
employment.  Could  you  look  into  a  large  open  room,  which 
we  call  a  veranda,  you  would  see  Mr.  Judson  bent  over  his 
table,  covered  with  Burman  books,  with  his  teacher  at  his 
side,  a  venerable-looking  man,  in  his  sixtieth  year,  with  a  cloth 
wrapped  round  his  middle,  and  a  handkerchief  round  his 
head.  Tliey  talk  and  chatter  all  day  long  without  hardly  any 
cessation. 

My  mornings  are  busily  employed  in  giving  directions  to 
the  servants,  providing  food  for  the  family,  &c.  At  ten  my 
teacher  comes ;  when,  were  you  present,  you  might  see  me  in 
an  inner  room,  at  one  side  of  my  study  table,  and  my  teacher 
the  other,  reading  Burman,  writing,  talking,  &c.  I  have 
many  more  interruptions  than  Mr.  Judson,  as  I  have  the  entire 
management  of  the  family.  This  I  took  on  myself  for  the 
sake  of  Mr.  Judson's  attending  more  closely  to  the  study  of 
the  language  ;  yet  I  have  found  by  a  year's  experience  that  it 
was  the  most  direct  way  I  could  have  taken  to  acquire  the 
language,  as  I  am  frequently  obliged  to  talk  Burman  all  day. 
I  can  talk  and  understand  others  better  than  Mr.  Judson, 
though  he  knows  really  much  more  about  the  nature  and  con- 
struction of  the  language  than  I  do. 

This  climate  is  one  of  the  most  healthy  in  the  world. 
There  are  only  two  months  in  the  year  when  it  is  severely 
hot.  We  doubt  not  but  you  pray  much  for  us  in  this  miserable 
land,  deprived  of  all  Christian  society.  We  need  much,  very 
much  grace,  that  we  may  be  faithful,  and  bear  a  faithful  testi- 
mony to  the  religion  of  Jesus. 

The  following  extract,  giving  an  account  of  an  at- 
tempt of  Mr.  Judson  to  convey  religious  knowledge 
to  his  teacher,  presents  a  view  of  the  notions  of  intel- 
ligent Bunnans  on  this  subject. 

September  30,  1815.  Had  the  following  conversation  with 
my  teacher,  as  nearly  as  I  can   recollect  it.     This  man  has 


172  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

been  with  me  about  three  months,  and  is  the  most  sensible, 
learned,  and  candid  man  that  I  have  ever  found  among  the 
Burmans.     He  is  forty-seven  years  of  age,  and  his  name  is 

Oo  Oungmen.     I  began  by  saying,  Mr.  J is  dead.      Oo.  I 

have  heard  so.  /.  His  soul  is  lost,  I  think.  Oo.  "Why  so  ? 
J.  He  was  not  a  disciple  of  Christ.  Oo.  How  do  you  know  that  ? 
You  could  not  see  his  soul.  /.  How  do  you  know  whether 
the  root  of  that  mango  tree  is  good  ?  You  cannot  see  it ;  but 
you  can  judge  by  the  fruit  on  its  branches.  Thus  I  know 
that  Mr.  J.  was  not  a  disciple  of  Christ,  because  his  words 
and  actions  were  not  such  as  indicate  a  disciple.  Oo.  And  so 
all  who  are  not  disciples  of  Christ  are  lost  ?  J.  Yes,  all, 
whether  Burmans  or  foreigners.  Oo.  This  is  hard.  J.  Yes, 
it  is  hard  indeed ;  otherwise  I  should  not  have  come  all  this 
way,  and  left  parents  and  all,  to  tell  you  of  Christ.  He 
seemed  to  feel  the  force  of  this,  and  after  stopping  a  little  he 
said.  How  is  it  that  the  disciples  of  Christ  are  so  fortunate 
above  all  men  ?  J.  Are  not  all  men  sinners,  and  deserving  of 
punishment  in  a  future  state  ?  Oo.  Yes,  all  must  suffer  in 
some  future  state  for  the  sins  they  commit.  The  punishment 
follows  the  crime  as  surely  as  the  wheel  of  the  cart  follows 
the  footsteps  of  the  ox.  J.  Now,  according  to  the  Bur- 
man  system,  there  is  no  escape.  According  to  the  Christian 
system,  there  is.  Jesus  Christ  has  died  in  the  place  of  sinners, 
has  borne  their  sins  ;  and  now  those  who  believe  on  him,  and 
become  his  disciples,  are  released  from  the  punishment  they 
deserve.  At  death,  they  are  received  into  heaven,  and  are 
happy  forever.  Oo.  That  I  will  never  believe.  My  mind  is 
very  stiff  on  this  one  point,  namely,  that  all  existence  involves 
in  itself  principles  of  misery  and  destruction.  The  whole 
universe  is  only  destruction  and  reproduction.  It  therefore 
becomes  a  wise  man  to  raise  his  desires  above  all  things  that 
exist,  and  aspire  to  nigban,  the  state  where  there  is  no  exist- 
ence. J.  Teacher,  there  are  two  evil  futurities,  and  one  good. 
A  miserable  future  existence  is  evil,  and  annihilation,  or 
nigban,  is  an  evil,  a  fearful  evil.  A  happy  future  existence 
is    alone    good.      Oo.   I  admit    that    is    best,  if    it   could   be 


CONVERSATION  WITH  HIS  TEACHER.  173 

perpetual ;  but  it  cannot  be.  Whatever  is  is  liable  to  change, 
and  misery,  and  destruction.  Nigban  is  the  only  permanent 
good,  and  tliat  good  has  been  attained  by  Gaudama,  the  last 
deity.  J.  If  there  be  no  eternal  being,  you  cannot  account 
for  any  thing.  Whence  this  world,  and  all  that  we  see  ? 
Oo,  Fate.  J.  Fate  !  The  cause  must  always  be  equal  to  the 
effect.  See,  I  raise  this  table.  See  also  that  ant  under  it. 
Suppose  I  were  invisible,  would  a  wise  man  say  the  ant  raised 
it  ?  Now,  fate  is  not  even  an  ant.  Fate  is  a  word  ;  that  is 
all.  It  is  not  an  agent ;  not  a  thing.  What  is  fate  ?  Oo.  The 
fate  of  creatures  is  the  influence  which  their  good  or  bad  deeds 
have  on  their  future  existence.  J.  If  influence  be  exerted, 
there  must  be  an  exerter.  If  there  be  a  determination,  there 
must  be  a  determiner.  Oo.  No,  there  is  no  determiner. 
There  cannot  be  an  eternal  being.  J.  Consider  this  point. 
It  is  a  main  point  of  true  wisdom.  Whenever  there  is  an 
execution  of  a  purpose,  there  must  be  an  agent.  Oo.  (After 
a  little  thought.)  I  must  say  that  my  mind  is  very  decided 
and  hard,  and  unless  you  tell  me  something  more  to  the  pur- 
pose, I  shall  never  believe.  J.  Well,  teacher,  I  wish  you  to 
believe,  not  for  my  profit,  but  for  yours.  I  daily  pray  the  true 
God  to  give  you  light  that  you  may  believe.  Whether  you 
will  ever  believe  in  this  world,  I  do  not  know ;  but  when  you 
die,  I  know  you  will  believe  what  I  now  say.  You  will  then 
appear  before  the  God  that  you  now  deny.  Oo.  I  don't  know 
that.  J.  I  have  heard  that  one  Burman,  many  years  ago, 
embraced  the  Portuguese  religion,  and  that  he  was  your  rela- 
tion. Oo.  He  was  a  brother  of  my  grandfather.  J.  At  Ava, 
or  here  ?  Oo.  At  Ava  he  became  a  Portuguese  ;  afterwards 
went  to  a  ship  country  with  a  ship  priest,  and  returned  to 
Ava.  J.  I  have  heard  he  was  put  to  death  for  his  religion. 
Oo,  No,  he  was  imprisoned  and  tortured  by  order  of  the  em- 
peror. At  last  he  escaped  from  their  hands,  fled  to  Rangoon, 
and  afterwards  to  Bengal,  where  they  say  he  died.  J.  Did 
any  of  his  family  join  him  ?  Oo.  None  ;  all  forsook  him  ;  and 
he  wandered  about,  despised  and  rejected  by  all.  J.  Do  you 
think  that  he  was  a  decided  Christian,  and  had  got  a  new  mind  ? 
15* 


174  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

Oo.  I  think  so  ;  for  when  he  was  tortured  hard,  he  held  out. 
J.  Did  he  ever  talk  with  you  about  religion  ?  Oo.  Yes.  J.  Why 
did  you  not  listen  to  him  ?  Oo.  I  did  not  listen.  J.  Did  you 
ever  know  any  other  Burman  that  changed  his  own  for  a  for- 
eign religion  ?  Oo.  I  have  heard  that  there  is  one  now  in 
Rangoon,  who  became  a  Portuguese  ;  but  he  keeps  himself 
concealed,  and  I  have  never  seen  him. 

January  1,  1816.  The  greater  part  of  my  time,  for  the 
last  six  months,  has  been  occupied  in  studying  and  transcrib- 
ing, in  alphabetical  arrangement,  the  Pali  Abigdan,  or  dic- 
tionary of  the  Pali  language,  affixing  to  the  Pali  terms  the 
interpretation  in  Burman,  and  again  transferring  the  Burman 
words  to  a  dictionary,  Burman  and  English.  With  the  close 
of  the  year,  I  have  brought  this  tedious  work  to  a  close,  and 
find  that  the  number  of  Pali  words  collected  amounts  to  about 
four  thousand.  It  has  grieved  me  to  spend  so  much  time  on 
the  Pali,  but  the  constant  occurrence  of  Pali  terms  in  every 
Burman  book  made  it  absolutely  necessary. 

The  two  languages  are  entirely  distinct.  The  Burman  is  a 
language  sui  generis  —  peculiar  to  itself.  It  is  true,  we  cannot 
know  what  affinity  it  has  to  some  of  the  Indo-Chinese  lan- 
guages that  are  yet  uninvestigated ;  but  it  is  essentially  diffi^r- 
ent  from  the  Sanscrit,  the  parent  of  almost  all  the  languages 
in  India  proper,  and,  indeed,  from  every  language  that  has 
yet  come  under  the  cognizance  of  Europeans. 

The  Pali,  on  the  other  hand,  is  a  dialect  of  the  Sanscrit, 
and  was  introduced  into  this  country  with  the  religion  of 
Boodh.  This  personage,  whose  proper  name  is  Gaudama, 
appeared  in  Hindostan  about  two  thousand  three  hundred 
years  ago,  and  gave  a  new  form  and  dress  to  the  old  transmi- 
gration system,  which,  in  some  shape  or  other,  has  existed  from 
time  immemorial.  The  Brahmans,  in  the  mean  time,  dressed 
up  the  system  after  their  fashion ;  and  these  two  modifications, 
Brahmanism  and  Boodhism,  struggled  for  the  ascendency. 
At  length  the  family  of  Gaudama,  which  has  held  the  sover- 
eignty of  India,  was  dethroned,  his  religion  was  denounced,  and 
his    disciples    took  refuge    in    Ceylon    and    the    neighboring 


DEATH    OF    A    CHILD.  175 

countries.  In  that  island,  about  five  hundred  years  after  the 
decease  and  supposed  annihilation  of  their  teacher  or  deity, 
they  composed  their  sacred  writings,  in  that  dialect  of  the 
Sanscrit  whch  had  obtained  in  Ceylon  ;  thence  they  were 
conveyed,  by  sea,  to  the  Indo-Chinese  nations.  Boodhism, 
however,  had  gained  footing  in  Burmah  before  the  arrival 
of  the  sacred  books  from  Ceylon.  It  is  commonly  maintained 
that  it  was  introduced  by  the  emissaries  of  Gaudama  before 
his  death. 

It  is  obvious  that  the  introduction  of  a  new  religion  and 
new  sacred  writings  must  have  great  effect  on  the  language  of 
a  people.  And,  accordingly,  (not  to  speak  of  the  influence 
which  the  Pali  has  had  on  the  general  construction  of  the 
Burman  language,)  a  considerable  number  of  words  in  com- 
mon use,  and  a  very  great  proportion  of  theological  terras,  are 
of  Pali  origin.  Thus,  though  the  Pali  is  now  a  dead  language, 
cultivated  by  the  learned  only,  some  knowledge  of  it  is  indis- 
pensable to  one  who  would  acquire  a  perfect  knowledge  of  the 
Burman,  and  especially  to  a  missionary,  who  intends  to  trans- 
late the  Scriptures,  and  who  ought,  therefore,  above  all  others, 
to  be  perfectly  acquainted  with  the  terms  he  employs. 

With  these  views,  I  was  desirous  of  laying  a  little  founda- 
tion for  such  further  improvements  in  the  language  as  neces- 
sity should  require  and  leisure  permit.  And  having  done 
this,  having  a  vocabulary  for  daily  reference,  correction,  and 
enlargement,  I  now  propose  to  devote  my  whole  time  again  to 
the  Burman. 

On  the  11th  of  September,  their  loneliness  was 
cheered  by  the  birth  of  a  son,  whom,  in  honor  of  the 
apostle  of  religious  liberty,  they  named  Roger  Wil- 
liams. The  blessing  was,  however,  short  lived,  for  on 
the  4th  of  May,  1816,  they  were  called  upon  to  con- 
sign him  to  an  early  grave. 


176  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

To  Rev.  Dr.  Bolles,  Salem. 

Rangoon,  January  16,  1816. 
Dear  Brother  :  Yours  of  March,  1815, 1  lately  received, 
and  read  with  real  satisfaction.  Neither  brother  Rice  nor 
any  of  the  others  that  you  mention  have  yet  been  heard  of  in 
these  parts.  May  they  not  be  far  distant.  Whenever  they  shall 
arrive,  I  hope  to  be  of  some  real  service  to  them  in  their  pre- 
paratory studies,  and  to  be  able  to  give  them,  in  a  short  time,  in- 
formation on  many  points  which  it  has  cost  me  months  to  acquire. 
I  just  now  begin  to  see  my  way  forward  in  this  language,  and 
hope  that  two  or  three  years  more  will  make  it  somewhat  fa- 
miliar ;  but  I  have  met  with  difficulties  that  I  had  no  idea  of 
before  I  entered  on  the  work.  For  a  European  or  American 
to  acquire  a  livijig  oriental  language,  root  and  branch,  and 
make  it  his  own,  is  quite  a  different  thing  from  his  acquiring 
a  cognate  language  of  the  West,  or  any  of  the  dead  languages, 
as  they  are  studied  in  the  schools.  One  circumstance  may 
serve  to  illustrate  this.  I  once  had  occasion  to  devote  about 
two  months  to  the  study  of  the  French.  I  have  now  been 
above  two  years  engaged  on  the  Burman  ;  but  if  I  were  to 
choose  between  a  Burman  and  French  book  to  be  examined 
in,  without  previous  study,  I  should,  without  the  least  hesita- 
tion, choose  the  French.  When  we  take  up  a  western  lan- 
guage, the  similarity  in  the  characters,  in  very  many  terms, 
in  many  modes  of  expression,  and  in  the  general  structure  of 
sentences,  its  being  in  fair  print,  (a  circumstance  we  hardly 
think  of,)  and  the  assistance  of  grammars,  dictionaries,  and 
instructors,  render  the  work  comparatively  easy.  But  when 
we  take  up  a  language  spoken  by  a  people  on  the  other  side 
of  the  earth,  whose  very  thoughts  run  in  channels  diverse  from 
ours,  and  whose  modes  of  expression  are  consequently  all  new 
and  uncouth  ;  when  we  find  the  letters  and  words  all  totally 
destitute  of  the  least  resemblance  to  any  language  we  had  ever 
met  with,  and  these  words  not  fairly  divided  and  distinguished, 
as  in  western  writing,  by  breaks,  and  points,  and  capitals,  but 
run  together  in  one  continuous  line,  a  sentence  or  paragraph 
seeming  to  the  eye  but  one  long  word  ;    when,  instead  of 


#  PROGRESS    IN    THE    LANGUAGE.  177 

clear  characters  on  paper,  we  find  only  obscure  scratches  on 
dried  palm  leaves  strung  together  and  called  a  book  ;  when  we 
have  no  dictionary,  and  no  interpreter  to  explain  a  single  word, 
and  must  get  something  of  the  language  before  we  can  avail 
ourselves  of  the  assistance  of  a  native  teacher,  — 

"  Hoc  opus,  hie  labor  est." 

I  had  hoped,  before  I  came  here,  that  it  would  not  be  ray  lot 
to  have  to  go  on  alone,  without  any  guide  in  an  unexplored 
path,  especially  as  missionaries  had  been  here  before.  But 
Mr.  Chater  had  left  the  country,  and  Mr.  Carey  was  with  me 
but  very  little,  before  he  left  the  mission  and  the  missionary 
work  altogether. 

I  long  to  write  something  more  interesting  and  encouraging 
to  the  friends  of  the  mission  ;  but  it  must  not  yet  be  expected. 
It  unavoidably  takes  several  years  to  acquire  such  a  language, 
in  order  to  converse  and  write  intelligibly  on  the  great  truths 
of  the  gospel.  Dr.  Carey  once  told  me,  that  after  he  had  been 
some  years  in  Bengal,  and  thought  he  was  doing  very  w^ell  in 
conversing  and  preaching  to  the  natives,  they  (as  he  was  af- 
terwards convinced)  knew  not  what  he  was  about.  A  young 
missionary  who  expects  to  pick  up  the  language  in  a  year  or 
two  will  probably  find  that  he  has  not  counted  the  cost.  If 
he  should  be  so  fortunate  as  to  find  a  good  inteq^reter,  he  may 
be  useful  by  that  means.  But  he  will  find,  especially  if  he  is 
in  a  new  place,  where  the  M^ay  is  not  prepared,  and  no  previous 
ideas  communicated,  that  to  qualify  himself  to  communicate 
divine  truth  intelligibly  by  his  own  voice  or  pen,  is  not  the 
work  of  a  year.  However,  notwithstanding  my  present  in- 
competency, I  am  beginning  to  translate  the  New  Testament, 
being  extremely  anxious  to  get  some  parts  of  Scripture,  at 
least,  into  an  intelligible  shape,  if  for  no  other  purpose  than  to 
read,  as  occasion  offers,  to  the  Burmans  I  meet  with. 

My  paper  allows  me  to  add  nothing  more  but  to  beg  your 
prayers,  that  while  I  am  much  occupied  in  words  and  phrases, 
and  destitute  of  those  gospel  privileges  you  so  richly  enjoy,  in 


178  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

the  midst  of  your  dear  church  and  people,  I  may  not  lose  the 
life  of  religion  in  my  soul. 

I  remain,  dear  brother. 

Yours  very  affectionately, 

A.  JuDSON,  Jr. 

To  the  Rev.  Dr.  Staughton. 

I  am  sometimes  a  little  dispirited,  when  I  reflect  that,  for 
two  or  three  years  past,  I  have  been  drilling  at  A,  B,  C,  and 
grammar.  But  I  consider  again  that  the  gift  of  tongues  is  not 
granted  in  these  times  ;  that  some  one  must  acquire  this  lan- 
guage by  dint  of  application ;  must  translate  the  Scriptures, 
and  must  preach  the  gospel  to  the  people  in  their  own  tongue, 
or  how  can  they  be  saved  ?  My  views  of  the  missionary  ob- 
ject are,  indeed,  different  from  what  they  were,  when  I  was 
first  set  on  fire  by  Buchanan's  "  Star  in  the  East,"  six  years 
ago.  But  it  does  not  always  happen  that  a  closer  acquaintance 
with  an  object  diminishes  our  attachment  and  preference. 
We  sometimes  discover  beauties,  as  well  as  deformities,  which 
were  overlooked  on  a  superficial  view  ;  when  some  attractions 
lose  their  force,  others  more  permanent  are  exerted ;  and 
when  the  glitter  in  which  novelty  invested  the  object  has 
passed  away,  more  substantial  excellences  have  room  to  dis- 
close their  influence  :  and  so  it  has  been  with  me,  I  hope,  in 
regard  to  the  work  of  missions. 

I  remain,  reverend  and  dear  sir, 

Yours  affectionately  in  the  Lord, 

A.  JuDSON,  Jr. 

To  the  Rev.  Luther  Rice. 

Rangoon,  August  3,  1816. 
My  dear  Brother  Rice  :  I  have  completed  a  grammar 
of  the  Burraan  language,  which  I  hope  will  be  useful  to  you  ; 
also  a  tract,  which  I  hope  to  get  printed  as  soon  as  Mr.  Hough 
arrives. 

If  any  ask  what  success  I  meet  with  among  the  natives,  tell 
them  to   look   at  Otaheite,  where   the  missionaries   labored 


SOURCES    OF    ENCOURAGEMENT.  179 

nearly  twenty  years,  and,  not  meeting  with  the  slightest  suc- 
cess, began  to  be  neglected  by  all  the  Christian  world,  and  the 
very  name  of  Otaheite  began  to  be  a  shame  to  the  cause  of 
missions  ;  and  now  the  blessing  begins  to  come.  Tell  them 
to  look  at  Bengal  also,  where  Dr.  Thomas  had  been  laboring 
seventeen  years  (that  is,  from  1783  to  1800)  before  the  first 
convert,  Krishna,  was  baptized.  When  a  few  converts  are 
once  made,  things  move  on  ;  but  it  requires  a  much  longer 
time  than  I  have  been  here  to  make  a  first  impression  on  a 
heathen  people.  If  they  ask  again.  What  prospect  of  ultimate 
success  is  there  ?  tell  them.  As  much  as  that  there  is  an  almighty 
and  faithful  God,  who  will  perform  his  promises,  and  no  more. 
If  this  does  not  satisfy  them,  beg  them  to  let  me  stay  and  try 
it,  and  to  let  you  come,  and  to  give  us  our  bread  ;  or,  if  they 
are  unwilling  to  risk  their  bread  on  such  a  forlorn  hope  as  has 
nothing  but  the  Word  of  God  to  sustain  it,  beg  of  them,  at 
least,  not  to  prevent  others  from  giving  us  bread ;  and,  if  we 
live  some  twenty  or  thirty  years,  they  may  hear  from  us  again. 
This  climate  is  good  —  better  than  in  any  other  part  of  the 
East.  But  it  is  a  most  filthy,  wretched  place.  Missionaries 
must  not  calculate  on  the  least  comfort,  but  what  they  find  in 
one  another  and  their  work.  However,  if  a  ship  was  lying 
in  the  river,  ready  to  convey  me  to  any  part  of  the  world  I 
should  choose,  and  that,  too,  with  the  entire  approbation  of  aU 
my  Christian  friends,  I  would  prefer  dying  to  embarking. 
This  is  an  immense  field,  and,  since  the  Serampore  missiona- 
ries have  left  it,  it  is  wholly  thi'own  on  the  hands  of  the  Amer- 
ican Baptists.  If  we  desert  it,  the  blood  of  the  Burmans 
will  be  required  of  us. 

Yours  ever, 

A.  JuDsoN,  Jr. 

To  the  Rev.  Dr.  Baldwin. 

Rangoon,  August  5,  181G. 
Rev.  and  dear  Sir  :  It  is  about  seven  months  since  I 
wrote  to  America.     The  first  three  months  of  this  time  I 
was  employed  on  the  Burman  language  in  a  more  interesting 


180  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

manner  than  I  had  ever  been.  I  began  to  enter  into  my  stud- 
ies with  such  pleasure  and  spirit,  and  to  make  such  rapid 
progress,  as  encouraged  me  to  hope  that  the  time  was  not  far 
distant  when  I  should  be  able  to  commence  missionary  opera- 
tions. I  was  going  forward  in  a  course  of  most  valuable 
Burman  reading,  and,  at  the  same  time,  had  begun  to  translate 
one  of  the  Gospels,  and  to  write  a  View  of  the  Christian  Reli- 
gion in  Burman,  which,  in  imagination,  were  already  finished 
and  circulating  among  the  natives,  when,  all  of  a  sudden,  in 
the  midst  of  the  hot  season,  which,  in  this  country,  is  most 
severe  during  the  months  of  March  and  April,  I  was  seized 
with  a  distressing  weakness  and  pain  in  my  eyes  and  head, 
which  put  a  stop  to  all  my  delightful  pursuits,  and  reduced 
me  to  a  pitiable  state  indeed.  Since  that  time,  excepting  at 
some  intervals,  I  have  been  unable  to  read,  or  write,  or  make 
any  exertion  whatever.  Sometimes  I  have  almost  given  up 
the  hope  that  I  should  ever  be  of  any  more  service  ;  some- 
times I  have  been  on  the  point  of  trying  a  short  voyage  at 
sea.  This  last  was  my  intention,  when  I  heard  of  brother 
Hough's  arrival  in  Bengal,  and  concluded  to  wait  until  he 
should  be  settled  here,  when  I  could  leave  more  conveniently. 
But,  thanks  be  to  God,  it  is  now  ten  days  since  I  have  experi- 
enced a  turn  of  severe  pain,  though  I  still  feel  great  weakness 
in  my  head,  and,  indeed,  througliout  my  whole  nervous  sys- 
tem. I  begin  now  to  hope  that  I  shall  gradually  recover, 
though  I  fear  I  never  shall  be  as  I  formerly  was. 

During  my  illness,  when  able  to  do  any  thing,  I  have  em- 
ployed myself  in  collecting  what  knowledge  I  have  hitherto 
acquired  of  the  language,  and  putting  it  together  in  the  shape 
of  a  grammar,  that  it  might  not  be  wholly  lost  to  others.  My 
tract  also  is  at  length  ready  for  the  press,  and  I  send  a  copy 
by  this  conveyance  to  Philadelphia,  which  may  be  some  grati- 
fication to  the  board.  I  would  send  a  copy  of  the  grammar 
also  if  I  was  able,  but  it  is  too  bulky  to  be  transcribed,  in  my 
present  state. 

I  expect  it  will  not  be  long  before  I  shall  be  ordered  up  to 
Ava.     The  press  also,  which  has  just  arrived  from  Bengal, 


SOURCES    OF    I'lNCOUIlAGKMENT.  181 

will  not  probably  be  allowed  to  stop  long  in  Rangoon.  This 
will  open  a  wide  field,  and  make  it  necessary  to  support  two 
stations.  I  beg,  therefore,  that  the  board  will  endeavor  to 
send  out  one  or  two  men  with  brother  Rice,  or  as  soon  after  as 
possible.  The  sooner  they  are  on  the  ground,  learning  the 
language,  the  sooner  they  will  be  fit  for  service.  I  have  never 
before  thought  it  prudent  to  write  for  more  men  in  addition  to 
those  I  knew  were  already  destined  to  the  place.  But  some 
favorable  prospects  lately  begin  to  open,  and  the  more  I 
become  acquainted  with  the  state  of  tilings,  the  less  reason  I 
have  to  fear  that  the  government  of  the  country  will,  at 
present,  oppose  the  work. 

We  know  not  the  designs  of  God  in  regard  to  this  country ; 
but  I  cannot  but  have  raised  expectations.  It  is  true  we  may 
have  to  labor  and  wait  many  years  before  the  blessing  comes. 
But  we  see  what  God  is  doing  in  other  heathen  lands,  after 
trying  the  faith  and  sincerity  of  his  servants  some  fifteen  or 
twenty  years.  Look  at  Otaheite,  Bengal,  Africa.  And  is 
Burmah  to  remain  a  solitary  instance  of  the  inefficacy  of 
prayer,  of  the  forgetfuhiess  of  a  merciful  and  faithful  God  ? 
Is  it  nothing  that  an  attempt  is  begun  to  be  made ;  that,  in  one 
instance,  the  language  is  considerably  acquired ;  that  a  tract  is 
ready  for  publication,  w^hich  is  intelligible  and  perspicuous, 
and  will  give  the  Burmans  their  Jii'st  ideas  of  a  Saviour  and 
the  way  of  salvation ;  that  a  press  and  types  have  now  ar- 
rived, and  a  printer  is  on  the  way  ;  that  a  grammar  is  finished, 
to  facilitate  the  studies  of  others,  and  a  dictionary  of  the  lan- 
guage is  in  a  very  forward  state  ;  and  that  the  way  is  now 
prepared,  as  soon  as  health  permits,  to  proceed  slowly  in  the 
translation  of  the  New  Testament  ?  Is  it  nothing  that,  just  at 
this  time,  the  monarch  of  the  country  has  taken  a  violent  hate 
to  the  priests  of  his  own  religion,  and  is  endeavoring,  with  all 
his  power,  to  extirpate  the  whole  order,  at  the  same  time  pro- 
fessing to  be  an  inquirer  after  the  true  religion  ?  Is  all  this  to 
be  set  down  a  mere  cipher  ?  It  is  true  that  we  may  desire 
much  more.  But  let  us  use  what  we  have,  and  God  will  give 
us  more.  However,  men  and  money  must  be  forthcoming. 
VOL.  I.  IG 


182  MEMOIR    OP    DR.    JUDSON. 

Work  cannot  be  done  without  men,  and  men  cannot  work 
without  bread  ;  nor  can  we  expect  the  ravens  to  feed  them  in 
ordinary  cases.  I  do  not  say  several  hundred  missionaries  are 
needed  here.  This,  though  true,  would  be  idle  talk.  My 
request  I  think  modest.  Five  men,  allowing  two  or  three  to 
each  of  the  stations,  is  the  smallest  number  that  will  possibly 
answer. 

I  have  received  one  letter  only  from  Dr.  Baldwin  ;  Mrs. 
Judson  has  also  received  one.     I  hope  that  brother  Hough  is 
the  bearer  of  others.     We  expect  him  by  the  first  opportunity. 
With  the  greatest  respect,  yours,  &c., 

A.  Judson,  Jr. 

From  Messrs.  Judson  and  Hough  to  the  Corresponding  iiecretary^  Rev.  Dr. 
Staughton. 

Rangoon,  November  7,  1816. 

Rev.  and  dear  Sir  :  It  is  with  peculiar  satisfaction  that 
we  are,  at  length,  able  to  address  a  letter  to  the  board,  in  our 
joint  capacity.  We  had  a  joyful  meeting  in  this  place  the 
15th  ult.  Mr.  Hough  has  settled  in  one  part  of  the  mission 
house ;  and  we  are  now  united,  both  as  a  church  of  Christ 
and  as  a  mission  society.  Our  regulations  on  the  latter  point 
we  here  submit  to  the  board.  It  will  be  evident,  at  first  sight, 
that  these  regulations  have  a  prospective  view,  and  are  framed 
somewhat  differently  from  what  they  would  have  been  had  we 
not  expected  that  our  society  would  soon  be  enlarged.  But 
we  hope  that  the  time  is  not  far  distant  when  they  will  re- 
ceive the  signature  of  brother  Rice  also.  Indeed,  we  hope 
for  more  than  this  ;  we  hope  that  one  or  two  others  will  be 
found  to  accompany  Mr.  Rice. 

It  is  true  that  one  of  us  remained  about  three  years  in  this 
place  without  uttering  any  Macedonian  cries.  But  we  appre- 
hend that  the  time  is  now  come,  when  it  is  consistent  with  the 
strictest  prudence  to  lift  up  our  voice  and  say.  Come  over  the 
ocean  and  help  us.  By  a  residence  of  three  years  in  this 
country,  many  doubts,  which  at  first  occurred,  are  removed ; 
and  many  points  concerning    the    practicability  of  a  mission, 


ARRIVAL  OF  THE  PRESS.  183 

and  the  prospect  of  success,  are  ascertained.  We  cannot  now 
enter  mucli  into  detail ;  but  we  desire  to  say,  that  we  consider 
the  mission  estabUshed  in  this  land.  We  unite  in  opinion, 
that  a  wide  door  is  set  open  for  the  introduction  of  the  religion 
of  Jesus  into  this  great  empire.  We  have  at  present  no  gov- 
ernmental interdict  to  encounter,  and  no  greater  obstacles  than 
such  as  oppose  the  progress  of  missionaries  in  every  heathen 
land.  It  appears  to  us  (and  may  it  so  appear  to  our  fathers 
and  brethren)  that  God,  in  removing  the  Enghsh  mission 
from  this  place,  and  substituting  in  their  stead  an  American 
mission,  is  emphatically  calling  on  the  American  churches  to 
compassionate  the  poor  Burmans,  and  to  send  their  silver,  and 
their  gold,  and  their  young  men,  to  this  eastern  part  of  the 
world,  to  the  help  of  the  Lord  against  the  mighty. 

It  is  with  great  pleasure  that  we  announce  the  valuable 
present  of  a  press  and  Burman  types,  made  to  us  by  the  Ser- 
ampore  brethren.  We  are  now  closing  in  a  room  for  a  tem- 
porary printing  office,  and  hope  very  soon  to  issue  a  gospel 
tract,  which  has  been  in  readiness  some  time,  and  which  is  in- 
tended to  give  the  heathen  around  us  some  idea  of  the  way  of 
salvation  through  the  Lord  Jesus.  But  we  cannot  move  one 
step  in  the  way  of  printing  without  money.  Though  favored 
with  the  press,  in  the  first  instance,  gratis,  we  have  already 
expended,  in  paper,  freight,  and  sundries,  about  four  hundred 
rupees.  We  therefore  beg  an  immediate  appropriation,  not 
only  to  liquidate  the  expenses  already  incurred,  but  to  enable 
us  to  proceed  in  this  all-important  part  of  our  work.  The 
accounts  of  the  mission  press  we  propose  to  keep  distinct ;  and 
they  shall  be  submitted  together  with  the  accounts  of  the 
mission. 

We  know  not  how  long  the  press  will  be  permitted  to  re- 
main in  Rangoon ;  we  do  not,  however,  deprecate  its  removal 
to  Ava.  Such  a  measure  would  doubtless  tend  to  the  further- 
ance of  the  cause,  and  to  the  introduction  of  religion  into  the 
very  heart  of  the  empire,  where  Satan's  seat  is.  But  in  this 
case,  more  men  and  more  money  would  be  imperatively  de- 
manded ;  and  we  trust  that  the  patronage  of  the  board  will 


184  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

not  fail  us  in  these  necessary  points.  We  desire  humbly  to 
repeat  to  the  board  what  the  first  missionaries  from  the  Bap- 
tist society  in  England  said  to  their  friends,  when  on  the  point 
of  embarkation  in  the  great  work  which  seems  destined  to  il- 
lumine Western  India  with  the  light  of  the  gospel.  "  We 
are,"  said  they,  "  like  men  going  down  into  a  well ;  you  stand 
at  the  top  and  hold  the  ropes.  Do  not  let  us  fall."  Hold  us 
up,  brethren  and  fathers  ;  and  if  health  and  life  be  spared  to 
us,  we  hope,  through  the  grace  of  G-od,  to  see  Eastern  India 
also  beginning  to  participate  in  the  same  glorious  light.  Many 
years  may  intervene,  in  the  latter  as  well  as  in  the  former 
case  ;  many  difficulties  and  disappointments  may  try  your 
faith  and  ours.  But  let  patience  have  her  perfect  work  ;  let 
us  not  be  weary  of  well-doing ;  for  in  due  time  we  shall  reap, 
if  we  faint  not. 

Your  servants  in  the  Lord  Jesus, 

A.  JuDSON,  Jr. 
George  II.  Hough. 

Articles  of  Agreement. 

In  order  more  effectually,  under  the  blessing  of  our  Lord 
and  Master,  to  accomplish  the  important  work  for  which  we 
have  come  into  this  heathen  land,  we,  the  undersigned,  form  a 
union  on  the  following  principles,  namely  :  — 

1.  We  give  ourselves  to  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  to  one 
another  by  the  will  of  God. 

2.  We  agree  to  be  kindly  affectioned  one  towards  another 
with  brotherly  love,  in  honor  preferring  one  another  ;  feeling 
that  we  have  one  Master,  even  Christ,  and  that  all  we  are 
brethren. 

3.  We  agree  in  the  opinion  that  our  sole  object  on  earth  is 
to  introduce  the  religion  of  Jesus  Christ  into  the  empire  of 
Burmah  ;  and  that  the  means  by  which  we  hope  to  effect  this 
are,  translating,  printing,  and  distributing  the  Holy  Scriptures, 
preaching  the  gospel,  circulating  religious  tracts,  and  promoting 
the  instruction  of  native  children. 


THE    MEN    NEEDED    AS    MISSIONARIES.  185 

4.  We  therefore  agree  to  engage  in  no  secular  business  for 
the  purpose  of  individual  emolument ;  and  not  at  all,  unless, 
in  the  opinion  of  the  brethren,  the  great  object  of  the  mission 
can  be  best  promoted  thereby. 

5.  We  agree  to  relinquish  all  private  riglit  to  remittances 
from  America,  avails  of  labor,  and  compensation  for  service ; 
in  a  word,  to  place  all  money  and  property,  from  whatever 
(piarter  accruing,  in  the  mission  fund  :  provided,  that  nothing 
in  this  article  be  construed  to  affect  our  private  right  to 
inheritances,  or  personal  favors,  not  made  in  compensation  of 
service. 

6.  We  agree  that  all  the  members  of  the  mission  family  have 
claims  on  the  mission  fund  for  equal  support,  in  similar  circum- 
stances ;  the  claims  of  widows  and  orphans  not  to  be  in  the 
least  affected  by  the  death  of  the  head  of  their  family.  But  it 
is  to  be  understood,  that  no  one  shall  have  a  right  to  adopt  a 
child  into  the  mission  family,  so  as  to  entitle  it  to  the  claims 
secured  in  this  article,  but  by  consent  of  the  brethren. 

7.  We  agree  to  educate  our  children  with  a  particular  ref- 
erence to  the  object  of  the  mission ;  and  if  any  expense  be 
necessary  or  expedient  for  this  purpose,  it  shall  be  defrayed 
from  the  mission  fund. 

8.  All  appropriations  from  the  mission  fund  shall  be  made  by 
a  majority  of  the  missionary  brethren  united  in  this  compact ; 
subject,  however,  to  the  inspection  of  our  patrons,  the  board. 

A.  JuDSON,  Jr. 
George  H.  Hough. 

To  the  Rev.  Luther  liice. 

Rangoox,  November  14,  1816. 
My  BELOVED  BROTHER  RiCE  :  In  encouraging  other  young 
men  to  come  out  as  missionaries,  do  use  the  greatest  caution. 
One  wrong-headed,  conscientiously  obstinate  fellow  would  ruin 
us.  Humble,  quiet,  persevering  men  ;  men  of  sound,  sterling- 
talents,  (though,  perhaps,  not  brilliant,)  of  decent  accomplish- 
ments, and  some  natural  aptitude  to  acquire  a  language  ;  men 
of   an  amiable,  yielding  temper,  willing   to   take    the   lowest 

10*  i 


i 


186  MEMOIR    OF    DR.  JUDSON. 

place,  to  be  the  least  of  all  and  the  servants  of  all ;  men  who 
enjoy  much  closet  religion,  who  live  near  to  God,  and  are  will- 
ing to  suffer  all  things  for  Christ's  sake,  without  being  proud 
of  it,  these  are  the  men,  &c.  But  O,  how  unlike  to  this  de- 
scription is  the  writer  of  it !  Still,  however,  I  am,  with  never- 
ceasing  affection. 

Your  most  affectionate  brother  in  the  Lord, 

A.  JuDSON,  Jk. 

To  the  Rev.  Dr.  Baldwin. 

Rangoon,  February  10,  1817. 

Rev.  and  dear  Sir  :  Have  just  heard  that  a  person  whom 
we  have  some  time  calculated  on  as  a  letter  carrier  to  Bengal 
is  unexpectedly  going  off  in  the  course  of  an  hour.  Have, 
therefore,  time  only  to  accompany  the  enclosed  tracts  with  a 
line  or  two. 

We  have  just  begun  to  circulate  these  publications,  and  are 
praying  that  they  may  produce  some  inquiry  among  the  na- 
tives. And  here  comes  a  man,  this  moment,  to  talk  about 
religion.  What  shall  I  do  ?  I  will  give  him  a  tract,  to  keep 
him  occupied  a  few  moments  while  I  finish  this.  "  Here,  my 
friend,  sit  down,  and  read  something  that  will  carry  you  to 
heaven,  if  you  believe  and  receive  the  glorious  Saviour  there- 
in exhibited." 

We  are  just  entering  on  a  small  edition  of  Matthew,  the 
translation  of  which  I  lately  commenced.  But  we  are  in 
great  want  of  men  and  money.  Our  hands  are  full  from 
morning  till  night.  I  cannot,  for  my  life,  translate  as  fast  as 
brother  Hough  will  print.  He  has  to  do  all  the  hard  work 
in  the  printing  office,  without  a  single  assistant,  and  cannot, 
therefore,  apply  himself  to  the  study  of  the  language,  as  is  de- 
sirable. As  for  me,  I  have  not  an  hour  to  converse  with  the 
natives,  or  go  out  and  make  proclamation  of  the  glorious  gos- 
pel. In  regard  to  money,  we  have  drawn  more  from  Bengal 
than  has  been  remitted  from  America  ;  so  that  now,  if  not  for 
their  truly  brotherly  kindness  in  honoring  our  bills  on  credit, 
we    shouhl   actually    starve.      Moreover,  an   edition    of  five 


FIRST    INQUIRER.  187 

thousand  of  the  New  Testament  will  cost  us  nearly  five  thousand 
dollars.  And  what  are  five  thousand  among  a  population  of 
seventeen  miUions,  five  millions  of  whom  can  read  ?  O  that 
all  the  members  of  the  Baptist  convention  could  live  in  Ran- 
goon one  month !  Will  the  Christian  world  ever  awake  ? 
"Will  means  ever  be  used  adequate  to  the  necessities  of  the 
heathen  world  ?  O  Lord,  send  help.  Our  waiting  eyes  are 
unto  thee  ! 

Your  brother  in  the  Lord, 

A.  JuDSON,  Jr. 

To  the  Corresponding  Secretcory. 

Rangoon,  March  7,  1817. 

Rev.  and  dear  Sir  :  Since  the  beginning  of  this  year,  we 
have  printed  two  tracts,  the  one  a  view  of  the  Christian  re- 
ligion, seven  pages,  one  thousand  copies ;  the  other  a  cate- 
chism of  six  pages,  12mo.,  three  thousand  copies.  After 
which,  finding  that  we  had  paper  sufficient  for  an  edition  of 
eight  hundred  of  Matthew,  we  concluded  to  undertake  this 
one  Gospel,  by  way  of  trial,  and  as  introductory  to  a  larger 
edition  of  the  whole  New  Testament.  I  am  now  translating 
the  eleventh  chapter,  and  in  the  printing  room  the  third  half 
sheet  is  setting  up.  Having  premised  thus  much  concerning 
the  present  posture  of  our  affairs,  I  proceed  to  mention  the 
circumstance  which  induced  me  to  take  up  my  pen  at  this 
time.  I  have  this  day  been  visited  by  the  first  inquirer  after 
religion  that  I  have  ever  seen  in  Burmah.  For,  although  in 
the  course  of  the  last  two  years  I  have  preached  the  gospel  to 
many,  and  though  some  have  visited  me  several  times,  and 
conversed  on  the  subject  of  religion,  yet  I  have  never  had 
much  reason  to  believe  that  their  visits  originated  in  a  spirit 
of  sincere  inquiry.  Conversations  on  religion  have  always 
been  of  my  proposing,  and,  though  I  have  sometimes  been  en- 
couraged to  hope  that  truth  had  made  some  impression,  never, 
till  to-day,  have  I  met  with  one  who  was  fairly  entitled  to  the 
epithet  of  inquirer. 

As  I  was  sitting  with  my  teacher,  as  usual,  a  Burman  of 


188  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

respectable  appearance,  and  followed  by  a  servant,  came  up 
the  steps,  and  sat  down  by  me.  I  asked  him  the  usual  question, 
where  he  came  from,  to  which  he  gave  no  explicit  reply,  and 
I  began  to  suspect  that  he  had  come  from  the  government 
house,  to  enforce  a  trifling  request  which  in  the  morning  we 
had  declined.  He  soon,  however,  undeceived  and  astonished 
me,  by  asking,  "  How  long  time  will  it  take  me  to  learn  the 
rcHgion  of  Jesus  ?  "  I  replied  that  si*cli  a  question  could  not 
be  answered.  If  God  gave  light  and  wisdom,  the  religion  of 
Jesus  was  soon  learned  ;  but,  without  God,  a  man  might  study 
all  his  life  long,  and  make  no  proficiency.  "  But  how,"  contin- 
ued I,  "  came  you  to  know  any  thing  of  Jesus  ?  Have  you 
ever  been  here  before  ? "  "  No."  "  Have  you  seen  any 
writing  concerning  Jesus  ?  "  "I  have  seen  two  little  books." 
"  Who  is  Jesus  ? "  "  He  is  the  Son  of  God,  who,  pitying 
creatures,  came  into  this  world,  and  suffered  death  in  their 
stead."  "  Who  is  God  ?  "  "  He  is  a  being  without  beginning 
or  end,  who  is  not  subject  to  old  age  and  death,  but  always  is." 
I  cannot  tell  how  I  felt  at  this  moment.  This  was  the  first 
acknowledgment  of  an  eternal  God  that  I  had  ever  heard 
from  the  lips  of  a  Burman.  I  handed  him  a  tract  and  cat- 
echism, both  which  he  instantly  recognized,  and  read  here 
and  there,  making  occasional  remarks  to  his  follower,  such  as, 
"  This  is  the  true  God  ;  this  is  the  right  way,"  &c.  I  now 
tried  to  tell  him  some  things  about  God  and  Christ,  and  him- 
self, but  he  did  not  listen  with  much  attention,  and  seemed 
anxious  only  to  get  another  book.  I  had  already  told  him 
two  or  three  times  that  I  had  finished  no  other  book,  but  that 
in  two  or  three  months  I  would  give  him  a  larger  one,  which 
I  was  now  daily  employed  in  translating.  "  But,"  replied  he, 
"  have  you  not  a  little  of  that  book  done,  which  you  will  gra- 
ciously give  me  now  ?  "  And  I,  beginning  to  think  that  God's 
time  is  better  than  man's,  folded  and  gave  him  the  first  two 
half  sheets,  which  contain  the  first  five  chapters  of  Mattlicw, 
on  which  he  instantly  rose,  as  if  his  business  was  all  done,  and, 
having  received  an  invitation  to  come  again,  took  leave. 

Throughout  his  short  stay,  he  appeared  diflTerent  from  any 


FIRST    INQUIUER.  189 

Bunnans  I  have  yet  met  with.  He  asked  no  questions  about 
customs  and  manners,  with  which  tlie  Burmans  tease  us  ex- 
ceedingly. He  had  no  curiosity,  and  no  desire  for  any  thing, 
but  "  MORE  OF  THIS  SORT  OF  WRITING."  In  fine,  his  conduct 
proved  that  he  had  something  on  his  mind,  and  I  cannot  but 
hope  that  I  shall  have  to  write  about  him  again. 

March  24.  We  have  not  yet  seen  our  inquirer ;  but  to- 
day we  met  with  one  of  his  acquaintance,  who  says  that  he 
reads  our  books  all  the  day,  and  shows  them  to  all  that  call 
upon  him.  We  told  him  to  ask  his  friend  to  come  and  see  us 
again. 

March  26.  An  opportunity  occurs  of  sending  to  Bengal. 
I  am  sorry  that  I  cannot  send  home  more  interesting  letters. 
But  I  am  not  yet  in  the  way  of  collecting  interesting  matter. 
I  have  found  that  I  could  not  preach  publicly  to  any  advantage, 
without  being  able,  at  the  same  time,  to  put  something  into  the 
hands  of  the  hearers.  And  in  order  to  qualify  myself  to  do 
this,  I  have  found  it  absolutely  necessary  to  keep  at  home,  and 
confine  myself  to  close  study  for  three  or  four  years.  I  hoj^e, 
however,  after  Matthew  is  finished,  to  make  a  more  public 
entrance  on  my  work  than  has  yet  been  done.  But  many 
difficulties  lie  in  the  way.  Our  present  house  is  situated  in 
the  woods,  away  from  any  neighbors,  and  at  a  distance  from 
any  road.  In  this  situation  we  have  no  visitors,  and  no  passing 
travellers,  whom  we  could  invite  to  stop  and  hear  of  Christ. 
My  attempts  to  go  out  and  find  auditors  have  always  occa- 
sioned such  a  waste  of  time,  and  interruption  of  study,  as 
could  not  often  be  indulged  in  or  justified.  We  are  very 
desirous  of  building  a  small  house  near  town,  on  some  public 
road,  but  do  not  venture  to  incur  the  expense.  We  wish 
further  instructions,  and  further  explanations  of  the  views  and 
intentions  of  the  board.  The  approaching  triennial  convention, 
also,  we  contemplate  with  the  deepest  interest.  May  God 
give  abundant  wisdom,  and  zeal,  and  holy  spirit. 

Permit  me  to  close  with  a  word  in  behalf  of  eastern  mis- 
sions. Great  Britain  and  the  United  States  appear  to  be  the 
only  countries  which  can  at  present  take  a  very  active  part  in 


190  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

missionary  concerns.  The  British  are  fully  occupied  with  India, 
Africa,  and  the  South  Sea  islands.  East  of  the  British  pos- 
sessions in  India  are  Burmah,  Siam,  several  other  Indo-Chi- 
nese nations,  the  great  empire  of  China,  Japan,  thence  north 
indefinitely,  and  southward  the  numerous  Malayan  Isles. 
With  all  these  countries  the  British  are  no  more  connected 
than  the  Americans.  The  British  are  under  no  greater  obliga- 
tions to  evangelize  them  than  the  Americans.  They  are  no 
nearer  the  English,  in  point  of  transportation,  than  the  Amer- 
icans. And  furthermore,  throughout  all  these  countries  the 
British  are  suspected  and  feared ;  but  not  the  Americans. 

The  idea  that  the  western  continent  belongs  to  the  Amer- 
icans, and  the  eastern  continent  to  the  British,  however 
plausible  at  first  sight,  cannot  bear  a  moment's  examination. 
I  apprehend  that  all  the  north-western  Indians,  and  the  inhab- 
itants of  those  parts-  of  South  America  which  are  accessible, 
will  scarcely  outnumber  the  inhabitants  of  this  single  empire 
of  Burmah.  And  on  what  principle  can  the  Americans,  who 
are  perhaps  half  as  numerous  as  the  British,  be  let  off  with 
one  twentieth  or  one  thirtieth  part  of  the  work  ?  But  when 
we  apply  the  case  to  the  Baj)tists,  it  is  still  more  decisive. 
There  are  about  five  hundred  Baptist  churches  in  Great  Brit- 
ain, which,  average  one  hundred  members  each.  There  are 
two  thousand  in  America,  which  average  about  the  same. 
Behold  Ireland,  also,  almost  as  destitute  as  South  America. 
And  suppose  the  British  should  say.  This  is  the  proper  prov- 
ince of  our  missionary  exertions ;  let  us  leave  Asia  and 
Africa  to  the  Americans,  and  "  not  send  our  young  men  to  the 
antipodes." 

Yours,  respectfully, 

A.  JuDSON,  Jr. 

To  the  Rev.  Dr.  Baldwin. 

Rangoon,  August  26,  1817. 
Rev.  and  dear  Sir  :  I  am  at  present  wholly  absorbed  m 
the  dictionary.     I  hope  to  have  it  finished  by  the  time  that 
brother  Rice  arrives.     The  rains  make  it  dilficult  for  me  to 


FEAR    OF    PERSECUTION.  191 

go  out  much  ;  and  for  the  same  reason,  we  have  not  many 
Burman  visitors  in  our  insulated  situation.  Even  those  who 
have  visited  us  frequently,  and  acquired  some  knowledge  of 
our  religion,  and  manifested  some  spirit  of  inquiry,  are  de- 
terred from  prosecuting  their  inquiries  by  fear  of  persecution. 
The  two  most  hopeful  persons  suddenly  discontinued  their 
visits  two  months  ago,  and  we  have  not  seen  them  since.  We 
suppose,  from  the  circumstances,  that  they  became  fearful  of 
being  suspected.  Sometimes  persons  who  have  been  con- 
versing with  me  on  religion  have  been  surprised  by  others, 
on  which  I  have  observed  that  they  were  disconcerted,  re- 
mained silent,  and  got  off  as  soon  as  possible.  They  all  tell 
me  that  it  would  ruin  a  Burman  to  adopt  the  new  religion. 
My  teacher  was  lately  threatened  in  public  for  having  assisted 
a  foreigner  in  making  books  subversive  of  the  religion  of  the 
country.  He  replied  that  he  merely  taught  me  the  language, 
and  had  no  concern  in  the  publication.  In  view  of  these 
difficulties,  our  first  thought  is,  God  can  give  to  the  inquirers 
that  love  to  Jesus,  and  that  resolution  to  profess  his  religion, 
which  will  overcome  their  fears.  Our  second  thought  is  this  : 
We  are  not  under  a  free  government,  where  every  one  is  his 
own  master,  but  under  an  absolute  monarchy,  where  all  are 
the  property  of  one  man.  Is  it  not  regular  and  prudent  to 
say  something  to  the  master  of  this  great  family  of  slaves, 
before  we  take  such  measures  as  may  be  considered  trespass- 
ing on  his  rights,  and  occasion  our  being  deprived  of  any  fur- 
ther opportunity  of  prosecuting  those  measures  ?  With  these 
views,  I  concluded,  a  few  months  ago,  to  distribute  the  tracts 
and  Gospel  which  we  have  published,  but  with  caution  and 
discrimination,  to  converse  on  rehgion  with  all  that  I  met,  but 
to  direct  my  labors  chiefly  to  preparing  what  will  be  invalua- 
ble to  future  missionaries,  and  thus  spend  the  rest  of  this  year, 
until  we  shall  have  further  assistance  and  advice  from  home. 
Then  it  may  be  thought  best  for  one  of  us  to  go  up  to  Ava, 
and  introduce  the  matter  gradually  and  gently  to  the  knowl- 
edge of  the  emperor.  I  am  fully  persuaded  that  he  has  never 
yet  got  the  idea  that  an  attempt  is  making  to  introduce  a  new 


rJ2  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

religion  among  his  slaves.  How  the  idea  will  strike  him  it 
is  impossible  to  foresee.  He  may  be  enraged,  and  order  off 
the  heads  of  all  concerned.  The  urbanity,  however,  with 
which  he  treats  all  foreigners,  and  his  known  hatred  of  the 
present  order  of  Boodhist  priests,  render  such  a  supposition 
improbable.  And  if  he  should  only  be  indifferent,  should  dis- 
cover no  hostility,  especially  if  he  should  treat  the  missiona- 
ries with  complacency,  it  would  be  a  great  point  gained.  No 
local  government  would  dare  to  persecute  the  espousers  of  a 
new  religion  if  it  was  known  that  they  had  friends  at  court. 
I  do  not  mean  to  imply  that  all  persecution  is  to  be  dreaded, 
but  that  persecution  which  would  effectually  prevent  the  use 
of  the  means  of  grace  certainly  is.  It  is  true  that  God  will 
call  those  whom  he  has  chosen ;  but  since  he  has  made  means 
necessary  to  the  end,  since  it  is  by  the  gospel  of  his  Son  that 
he  calls  his  people,  it  is  certainly  as  much  the  duty  of  his  ser- 
vants to  endeavor  to  avert  such  persecution  as  would  effectu- 
ally prevent  the  use  of  means  as  it  is  to  use  any  means  at 
all ;  and  we  may  reasonably  conclude  that,  when  God  has  a 
people  whom  he  is  about  to  call,  he  will  direct  his  servants  in 
such  a  course. 

I  have  no  doubt  that  God  is  preparing  the  way  for  the  con- 
version of  Burmah  to  his  Son.  Nor  have  I  any  doubt  that 
we  who  are  now  here  are,  in  some  little  degree,  contributing 
to  this  glorious  event.  This  thought  fills  me  with  joy.  I 
know  not  that  I  shall  live  to  see  a  single  convert ;  but,  not- 
withstanding, I  feel  that  I  would  not  leave  my  present  situa- 
tion to  be  made  a  king. 

I  remain,  dear  sir, 

Your  servant  in  the  Lord, 

A.   JUDSON,  Jk. 

To  the  Corresponding  Secretary. 

Madras,  May  28,  1818. 
In  former  letters  I  have   stated  my  circumstances  at  the 
close  of  last  year,  and  the  reasons  which  induced  me  to  leave 
Rangoon  on  a  visit  to  Chittagong ;  particularly  the  prospect 


VOYAGE    TO     MADRAS.  193 

of  a  direct  passage,  and  speedy  return  in  the  same  ship  —  an 
opportunity  of  very  rare  occurrence  in  Rangoon. 

Since  that  time  a  series  of  unexpected  providences  have 
befallen  me,  which,  though  uninteresting  in  detail,  must  be 
briefly  mentioned,  in  order  to  account  for  my  present  situ- 
ation. 

When  we  left  Rangoon,  December  25,  we  expected  a  pas- 
sage of  ten  or  twelve  days.  At  the  expiration  of  a  month, 
however,  by  reason  of  contrary  winds,  and  the  unmanageable- 
ness  of  the  ship  in  the  difficult  navigation  along  the  coast,  we 
found  ourselves  still  at  a  great  distance  from  port ;  and  the 
season  being  so  far  advanced  as  to  deprive  us  of  the  hope  of 
more  favorable  winds,  the  captain  and  supercargo  agreed  on  a 
change  of  the  ship's  destination,  and  made  sail  for  Madras. 

Previous  to  leaving  the  coast,  we  put  into  Cheduba,  a  place 
under  Burman  government,  for  a  supply  of  provisions.  I  was 
unable  to  go  ashore,  but  took  the  opportunity  of  sending  a 
tract  by  the  boat.  It  happened  to  be  conveyed  directly  to  the 
governor,  and  he  ordered  it  read  in  his  presence.  Soon  after, 
when  our  captain  had  an  audience,  the  governor  inquired  after 
the  writer  of  the  tract,  who  he  was,  and  how  long  he  had  been 
in  the  country.  The  captain  evaded  some  questions,  for  fear 
of  detention,  I  suppose,  and  merely  stated  that  the  writer  was 
a  foreigner,  who  had  resided  in  Rangoon  about  four  years. 
"  No,"  replied  the  governor,  "  that  is  not  to  be  credited.  You 
cannot  make  me  believe  that  a  foreigner,  in  so  short  a  time, 
lias  learned  to  write  the  language  so  well.  It  must  have  been 
written  by  some  other  person."  The  captain  related  this  to 
me  on  his  return.  I  felt  particularly  gratified  by  this  testi- 
mony to  the  perspicuity  of  the  style,  and  thought  it  not  un- 
worthy of  mentioning,  because  it  could  not  be  suspected,  as 
others  which  had  been  made  to  me  personally,  of  having 
been  a  mere  compliment. 

The  ship's  destination  was  changed  on  the  2Gth  of  January. 
We  retraced  our  course  for  a  few  days,  and  then  stood  to  the 
westward.  It  was  with  the  most  bitter  feelings  that  I  wit- 
nessed the  entire  failure    of  my  undertaking,  and  saw  the 

VOL.    T.  17 


104  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

summits  of  the  mountains  of  Arracan,  tlie  last  indexes  of  my 
country,  sinking  in  the  horizon,  and  the  ship  stretching  away 
to  a  distant  part  of  India,  wliich  I  had  no  wish  to  visit,  and 
where  I  had  no  object  to  obtain.  It  was,  however,  some  miti- 
gation of  my  disappointment,  that  I  should,  in  all  probability, 
be  able  to  return  to  Rangoon,  and  resume  my  missionary  busi- 
ness much  earlier  than  if  I  had  visited  Chittagong.  But  even 
the  consolation  of  this  hope  was  not  long  allowed  me.  We 
had,  indeed,  a  quick  passage  across  the  bay ;  but  on  drawing 
near  the  Coromandel  coast  the  wind  and  current  combined  to 
prevent  our  further  progress,  and  at  the  expiration  of  another 
month,  having  for  a  long  time  subsisted  on  nothing  scarcely 
but  rice  and  water,  and  being  now  reduced  to  very  short 
allowance,  we  concluded  to  make  sail  for  Masulipatam,  a  port 
north  of  Madras,  which  we  doubted  not  we  should  be  able  to 
reach  in  a  very  few  days.  In  this,  again,  we  were  disappoint- 
ed, and  through  the  unmanageableness  of  the  ship,  or  the  mis- 
management of  the  captain,  were  detained  at  sea  nearly  another 
month.  During  this  period  we  were  sometimes  in  great  dis- 
tress, deeming  ourselves  very  fortunate  when  able  to  get  a  bag 
of  rice,  or  a  few  buckets  of  water,  from  any  native  vessel 
which  happened  to  pass.  Once  we  sent  the  long  boat  to  the 
shore,  and  obtained  a  considerable  supply  of  water,  which  was 
a  great  relief.  But  of  rice  we  could  obtain  no  sufficient  sup- 
ply, and  all  other  articles  of  provision  were  quite  out  of  the 
question. 

The  low  state  to  wliich  I  was  at  length  reduced  occasioned 
a  partial  return  of  the  disorder  of  my  head  and  eyes,  to  which 
I  was  subject  two  years  ago.  This,  with  other  circumstances 
united,  left  me  no  other  source  of  consolation  but  resignation 
to  the  Ayill  of  God,  and  an  unreserved  surrender  of  all  to  his 
care ;  and  praised  be  his  name,  I  found  more  consolation  and 
happiness  in  communion  with  God,  and  in  the  enjoyments  of 
religion,  than  I  had  ever  found  in  more  prosperous  circum- 
stances. 

Finally  we  did  reach  Masulipatam,  and  I  left  the  ship  on 
the  18th  of  March,  twelve  weeks  after  embarking  at  Rangoon. 


DETENTION    IN    MADRAS.  195 

I  waited  at  Masulipatam  a  few  days,  until  it  was  ascertained 
tiuit  the  ship  would  unlade  her  cargo,  and  remain  sev- 
eral months.  And  as  there  was  no  prospect  that  season  of 
reaching  JMadras  by  sea,  the  only  port  on  the  coast  where  I 
could  hope  to  find  a  vessel  bound  to  Rangoon,  I  was  under  the 
necessity  of  taking  a  journey  by  land  —  distance  about  three 
hundred  miles.  I  accordingly  hired  a  palanquin  and  bearers, 
and  arrived  here  the  8th  of  April.  My  first  aim  was,  of 
course,  the  beach,  and  my  first  inquiry  a  vessel  bound  to  Ran- 
goon. But  my  chapter  of  disappointments  was  not  yet  fin- 
ished. No  vessel  had  sailed  for  Rangoon  this  year,  and  such, 
it  was  understood,  was  the  unsettled  state  of  the  Burman  coun- 
try, that  none  would  probably  venture  for  some  time  to  come. 
Here  I  have  remained  ever  since,  under  very  trying  cir- 
cumstances. Have  scarcely  heard  from  Rangoon  since  I  left, 
or  been  able  to  transmit  any  intelligence  thither  by  a  convey- 
ance to  be  depended  on.  The  weakness  of  my  eyes  prevents 
my  application  to  study,  or  attempt  at  any  exertion.  I  am 
making  no  progress  in  missionary  work ;  I  am  distressed  by 
the  appalling  recollection  of  the  various  business  w^iich  was 
pressing  on  me  at  Rangoon,  and  made  me  very  reluctant  to 
leave  home  for  the  shortest  time.  Now,  I  have  been  detained 
twice  as  long  as  I  anticipated,  and  have,  withal,  wholly  failed 
in  my  undertaking.  A\T3ere,  my  rebellious  heart  is  ready  to 
cry,  where  is  the  wisdom  of  all  this  ?  But  it  is  wise,  though 
blindness  cannot  apprehend.  It  is  best,  though  unbelief  is 
disposed  to  murmur.  Be  still,  my  soul,  and  know  that  He 
is  God. 

To  the  Corresponding  Secretan/. 

Rangoon,  October  9,  1818. 
My  last  was  dated  Madras,  May  28,  1818.  At  that  place 
I  remained,  waiting  for  a  conveyance  to  Rangoon,  until  the 
20th  of  July,  when  I  took  passage  on  an  English  vessel,  at 
one  hundred  and  sixty-seven  rupees.  During  my  stay  in 
Madras,  I  experienced  great  kindness  and  hospitality  in  the 
families  of  the  Rev.  Mr.  Thompson,  chaplain,  and  the   Rev. 


19G  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUUSON. 

Mr.  Loveless,  missionary  ;  and  received  such  proofs  of  Chris- 
tian atfection  from  many  dear  friends,  as  rendered  parting  with 
them  very  painful,  though  my  detention  in  Madras  had,  in 
other  respects,  been  almost  insupportable.  We  anchored  at 
the  mouth  of  Rangoon  River,  on  the  2nd  of  August.  The 
next  morning,  when  the  pilot  came  on  board,  I  was  over- 
whelmed with  the  intelligence  that,  on  account  of  the  danger- 
ous situation  of  affairs,  the  mission  had  been  broken  up,  and 
that  Mr.  Hough  and  family,  and  Mrs.  Judson,  had  taken  pas- 
sage for  Bengal.  To  my  great  relief,  however,  it  was  added, 
that,  before  the  ship  left  the  river,  Mrs.  Judson's  reluctance  to 
leave  the  place  had  so  increased  as  to  force  her  back  to  the 
mission  house  alone ;  and  further,  that  the  ship,  being  found 
unfit  for  sea,  was  still  detained.  On  my  arrival,  I  found  that 
brother  Hough  was  inclined  to  pursue  his  original  plan.  His 
reasons  he  will  doubtless  communicate  to  the  board.  It  is 
expected  that  the  vessel  will  be  ready  for  sea  in  about  a 
fortnight. 

The  brethren,  Colman  and  Wheelock,  and  their  wives,  ar- 
rived the  19th  of  September,  about  six  weeks  after  my  return. 
We  had,  I  can  truly  say,  a  most  joyful  meeting.  You  have 
never  seen  them,  or  it  would  be  unnecessary  to  add,  that  they 
are  four  lovely  persons,  in  every  sense  of  the  word,  and  appear 
to  have  much  of  a  humble,  prayerful  spirit.  Such  being 
their  interesting  appearance,  we  regret  more  deeply  to  find 
that  the  health  of  the  brethren  is  so  feeble.  They  have  both 
had  a  slight  return  of  bleeding  at  the  lungs,  an  old  complaint, 
to  which  they  were  subject  in  America.  May  the  Lord 
graciously  restore  and  preserve  them. 

A  few  days  after  their  arrival,  I  introduced  them  into  the 
j)resence  of  the  viceroy.  He  received  us  with  marked  atten- 
tion, which,  however,  must  be  ascribed  to  the  influence  of  a 
handsome  present,  which  went  before  us.  Though  sur- 
rounded with  many  officers,  he  suspended  all  business  for  a 
time,  examined  the  present,  and  condescended  to  make  several 
in(piiries.  On  being  told  that  the  new  teacliers  desircid  to 
take  refuge  in  his  glory,  and  remain  in   Rangoon,  he  replied. 


PRECARIOUS     STATE     OF    THE    MISSION.  197 

"  Let  them  stay,  let  them  stay ;  and  let  your  wife  bring  tlieir 
wives,  that  I  may  see  them  all."  We  then  made  our  obeisance, 
and  retired. 

The  examination  which  brother  Hough  sustained  during 
my  absence,  and  the  persecution  of  the  Roman  Catholic 
padres,  have  made  us  feel  more  deeply  than  ever  the  pre- 
carious situation  of  this  mission,  and  the  necessity  of  proceed- 
ing with  the  utmost  caution.  It  w^as  only  through  the  favor 
of  the  viceroy  that  the  padres  were  allowed  to  remain  here, 
when  they  arrived  from  Ava,  under  sentence  of  banishment. 
And  it  is  only  through  his  mediation,  and  the  influence  of 
large  presents  made  to  the  king,  that  the  order  of  banishment 
is  reversed,  if  indeed  it  be  reversed  —  a  report  not  yet  con- 
firmed. One  malicious  intimation  to  the  king  would  occasion 
our  banishment ;  and  banishment,  as  the  Burmans  tell  us,  is 
no  small  thing,  being  attended  with  confiscation  of  all  prop- 
erty, and  such  various  abuses  as  would  make  us  deem  our- 
selves happy   to  escape  with  our  lives. 

Such  a  situation  may  appear  somewhat  alarming  to  a  per- 
son accustomed  to  the  liberty  and  safety  of  a  free  government. 
But  let  us  remember  that  it  has  been  the  lot  of  the  greater 
part  of  mankind  to  live  under  a  despotic  government,  devoid 
of  all  security  for  life  or  property  a  single  moment.  Let  us 
remember  that  the  Son  of  God  chose  to  become  incarnate 
under  the  most  unprincipled  and  cruel  despot  that  ever 
reigned.  And  shall  any  disciple  of  Christ  refuse  to  do  a 
little  service  for  his  Saviour,  under  a  government  where  his 
Saviour  would  not  have  refused  to  live  and  die  for  his  soul  ? 
God  forbid.  Yet  faith  is  sometimes  weak  —  flesh  and  blood 
sometimes  repine.  O  for  grace  to  strengthen  faith,  to  animate 
hope,  to  elevate  affection,  to  embolden  the  soul,  to  enable  us 
to  look  danger  and  death  in  the  face ;  still  more,  to  behold, 
without  repining,  those  most  dear  to  us  suffering  fears  and 
pains,  which  we  would  gladly  have  redoubled  on  ourselves,  if 
it  would  exonerate  them. 

We  feel  encouraged  by  the  thought  that  many  of  the  dear 
children  of  God  remember  us  at  the  mercy  seat.  To  your 
17* 


198  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

prayers  I  desire  once  more  to  commend  myself —  the  weakest, 
the  most  unquaHlied,  the  most  unwortliy,  and  the  most  unsuc- 
cessful of  all  missionaries. 

Mr.  Judson's  sufferings  during  this  voyage  were  far 
greater  than  he,  in  his  letter,  made  known  to  his  cor- 
respondent. They  had  sailed  for  Chittagong,  a  pas- 
sage which  should  have  been  made  in  ten  or  twelve 
days,  at  farthest.  He  had,  therefore,  prepared  himself 
for  only  a  few  weeks'  absence  from  home.  When  the 
vessel  put  in  at  Cheduba,  the  nervous  affection  of  his 
head  and  eyes,  occasioned  at  first  by  low  diet,  had  so 
much  increased  by  exhaustion  and  lack  of  food,  that 
he  was  unable  to  go  on  shore.  When  they  approached 
the  Coromandcl  coast,  and  again  encountered  contrary 
winds,  they  were  reduced  to  almost  the  last  extremity, 
and  the  constitution  of  Mr.  Judson  sank  under  these  ac- 
cumulated hardships.  The  mouldy,  broken  rice,  which 
they  picked  up  from  native  vessels,  and  this  in  small 
quantities,  with  a  limited  supply  of  water,  was  their 
sole  sustenance  for  three  or  four  weeks.  He  was  ac- 
customed to  look  back  on  his  sufferings  at  this  time 
with  a  feeling  of  horror  scarcely  equalled  by  his 
reminiscences  of  Ava.  Here  he  was  alone,  in  a  state 
of  passive,  monotonous  suffering,  with  no  one  to  share 
his  sympathies,  and  nothing  to  arouse  his  energies. 
His  scanty  wardrobe,  prepared  for  a  trip  of  ten  or 
twelve  days,  had  been  long  since  exhausted,  and  what 
with  starvation,  filth,  pain,  and  discouragement,  he 
became  unable  to  leave  his  berth.  At  last  he  was 
attacked  by  a  slow  fever,  and  turning  in  disgust  from 
his  little  mess  of  dirty  rice,  he  begged  continually  for 
water!  water!  water!  without  ever  obtaining  enough 
to  quench,   even  for  a  moment,  his  devouring  thirst. 


SUFFERINGS    OF    THE    VOYAGE.  199 

At  lens^th  the  little  vessel  came  to  anchor  in  the  mud 
of  Masulipatam,  some  two  or  three  miles  from  the  low, 
uninviting  beach,  and  the  captain  came  to  inquire  if 
he  would  be  taken  on  shore.  The  fact  that  they  were 
near  land  seemed  to  him  an  incredible  thing,  a  kind 
of  dreamy  illusion  too  fanciful  to  interest  him.  After 
some  urging,  however,  he  became  sufficiently  roused  to 
pencil  a  note,  which  he  addressed  to  "  any  English 
resident  of  Masulipatam,"  begging  only  for  a  place 
on  shore  to  die.  After  a  little  while,  one  of  the  men 
came  below,  to  tell  him  that  a  boat  was  approaching 
from  the  shore.  He  now  succeeded  in  crawling  to  the 
window  of  his  cabin,  from  which  he  plainly  distin- 
guished, in  the  rapidly  moving  boat,  both  the  red  coat 
of  the  military  and  the  white  jacket  of  the  civilian. 
In  the  first  thrill  of  joyful  surprise,  the  sudden  awaken- 
ing of  hope  and  pleasure,  he  threw  himself  on  his 
knees  and  wept.  Before  his  new  friends  were  fairly 
on  board,  he  had  succeeded  in  gaining  some  little  self- 
control  ;  but  he  added,  his  voice  faltering  and  his  eyes 
filling  with  tears  as  he  related  the  incident  to  Mi's. 
Judson,  "  The  white  face  of  an  Englishman  never 
looked  to  me  so  beautiful,  so  like  my  conception  of 
what  angel  faces  are,  as  when  these  strangers  entered 
my  cabin."  They  were  very  much  shocked  at  his 
visible  wretchedness  :  he  was  haggard,  unshaven,  dirty, 
and  so  weak  that  he  could  with  difficulty  support  his 
own  weight.  Their  earnest  cordiality  w^as  peculiarly 
grateful  to  him.  One  of  the  officers  took  him  to  his 
own  house,  supplied  him  from  his  own  wardrobe,  pro- 
cured a  nurse,  whom,  however,  he  had  occasion  to  em- 
ploy but  a  short  time,  and  displayed  throughout  a 
generous  hospitality  which  Dr.  Judson  never  forgot.* 

*  ^Irfs.  Judson' s  reminiscences. 


200  M E:\ro IK  of  dr.  judson, 

During  Mr.  Judson's  absence,  the  mission  at  Ran- 
goon was  reduced  to  the  last  extremity,  and  would 
have  been  wholly  abandoned  but  for  the  conduct  of 
that  heroic  woman,  whose  name  will  ever  be  associ- 
ated with  the  introduction  of  Christianity  into  Bur- 
mah.  After  Mr.  Judson  had  been  absent  for  three 
months,  a  native  boat  arrived  from  Chittagong,  bring- 
ing the  intelligence  that  neither  he  nor  the  vessel  had 
been  heard  of  at  that  port.  After  this,  several  months 
passed  away  before  any  tidings  arrived  concerning 
him.  While  the  mission  family  remained  in  this  state 
of  anxious  suspense,  Mr.  Hough  received  an  order, 
couched  in  the  most  menacing  language,  to  appear 
immediately  at  the  court  house,  and  give  an  account 
of  himself.  This  order  spread  terror  among  all  their 
domestics  and  adherents.  As  the  hour  was  late,  Mr. 
Hough  w^as  merely  ordered  to  give  security  for  his  ap- 
pearance at  an  early  hour  on  the  following  day. 

The  viceroy,  who  had  always  been  their  friend,  had 
been  recalled  to  Ava,  and  the  present  viceroy  having 
left  his  family  at  the  capital,  this  latter  circumstance 
rendered  it  inconsistent  with  etiquette  for  a  female  to 
appear  at  his  court.  Mr.  Hough  was  not  sufficiently 
well  acquainted  with  the  language  to  make  his  appeal 
in  person.  On  the  following  days,  Friday  and  Satur- 
day, Mr.  Hough  w^as  detained,  under  every  conceivable 
annoyance,  at  the  court  house,  and  it  was  apparently 
the  object  of  the  officers  to  harass  and  distress  him  as 
much  as  possible. 

On  the  next  day,  Sunday,  another  order  for  Mr. 
Hough's  appearance  arrived.  Mrs.  Judson  now  de- 
termined to  bring  the  matter  to  a  crisis,  by  appealing 
at  once  to  the  viceroy.  Her  teacher  drew  up  a  peti- 
tion, stating  their  grievances,  their  summons  to  appear 


STATE    OF    THE    MISSION    IN    HIS    ABSENCE.  201 

in  public  on  their  sacred  day^  and  requesting  that 
these  molestations  should  cease.  Mr.  Hough  accom- 
panied her  to  the  government  house.  On  her  arrival, 
she  was  immediately  recognized  by  the  viceroy,  who 
called  her  in  the  kindest  manner  to  come  in  and  make 
known  her  request.  As  soon  as  he  had  heard  the 
petition,  he  inquired  of  the  very  officer  who  had  been 
foremost  in  molesting  them,  why  the  examination  of 
this  foreign  teadier  had  been  thus  prolonged.  He  at 
once  gave  an  order  that  Mr.  Hough  should  be  no  more 
called  upon  on  his  sacred  day,  and  that  he  should  be 
molested  no  more.  This  trouble  thus  passed  away,  but 
its  consequences  remained.  Mrs.  Judson  had  succeeded 
in  assembling  some  thirty  or  more  females  for  religious 
instruction  ;  but  after  this  examination  of  Mr.  Hough, 
the  number  at  once  diminished  to  ten  or  twelve. 

Besides  this,  the  cholera  now  began  to  rage  among 
the  native  population,  and  the  beating  of  the  death 
drum  sounded  all  the  day  long.  The  missionaries  felt 
themselves  exposed  to  its  ravages;  but,  through  a 
merciful  Providence,  not  an  individual  on  their  prem- 
ises suffered.  Nor  was  this  all.  Reports  were  in  cir- 
culation that  Burmah  was  on  the  eve  of  a  war  with 
Great  Britain.  Arrivals  from  British  India  were 
becoming  rare,  and  vessels  in  the  port  of  Rangoon 
were  making  all  haste  to  depart  before  the  war  should 
be  declared.  At  last,  but  one  English  vessel  remained 
in  the  river.  Six  months  had  elapsed,  and  not  a 
syllable  had  been  heard  of  Mr.  Judson.  It  was 
probable  that  the  vessel  had  foundered,  and  all  on 
board  had  perished.  The  natives  were  becoming 
afraid  of  intercourse  with  the  missionaries.  Should 
war  be  declared,  they  would  be  shut  out  from  all 
communication  with  the  civilized  world,,  exposed  to 
the  tender  mercies  of  a  despotic  authority. 


MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

Under  these  circumstances,  Mr.  Hough  thought  it 
desirable  to  remove  the  mission  and  its  effects  from 
Rangoon,  while  removal  was  practicable.  Mrs.  Jud- 
son  was  long  in  favor  of  remaining.  At  last,  however, 
on  the  5th  of  July,  she  consented  to  accompany  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Hough,  and  took  passage  in  the  last  vessel  that 
was  to  sail  for  Calcutta.  It  happened  that  the  vessel 
was  detained  several  days  in  the  river.  During  this 
period  she  had  time  for  calmer  reflection,  and  deter- 
mined to  leave  the  ship,  return  to  Rangoon,  and 
remain  there  at  least  until  she  heard  from  her  husband. 
"  Accordingly,"  she  writes,  "  I  immediately  resolved 
on  giving  up  the  voyage,  and  returning  to  town.  The 
captain  sent  up  a  boat  with  me,  and  engaged  to  for- 
ward my  baggage  the  next  day.  I  reached  town  in 
the  evening,  spent  the  night  at  the  house  of  the  only 
Englishman  remaining  in  the  place,  and  to-day  have 
come  out  to  the  mission  house,  to  the  great  joy  of  all 
the  Burmans  left  on  our  premises.  Mr.  Hough  and 
family  will  proceed,  and  they  kindly  and  affectionately 
urged  my  return.  I  know  I  am  surrounded  by  dan- 
gers on  every  hand,  and  expect  to  feel  much  anxiety 
and  distress ;  but,  at  present,  I  am  tranquil,  intend  to 
make  an  effort  to  pursue  my  studies  as  formerly,  and 
leave  the  event  with  God." 

On  the  16th  of  July,  the  first  glimmering  of  hope 
broke  upon  the  darkness.  The  vessel  in  which  Mr. 
Judson  had  sailed  for  Chittagong  arrived  in  the  har- 
bor. Mrs.  Judson  then  learned  that  the  ship  had 
landed  him  at  Masulipatam,  and  that  he  had  proceeded 
to  Madras  in  search  of  a  passage  to  Rangoon.  It 
also  appeared  that  the  prospect  of  immediate  hostil- 
ities between  Great  Britain  and  Burniah  was  less  im- 
minent than  had  been  supposed.      On  the  2oth   of 


RETURN    TO    RANGOON.  203 

July,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Hough  returned  to  the  mission 
house,  the  ship  in  which  they  embarked  not  being  able 
to  proceed  for  some  weeks,  so  that  Mrs.  Judson  was 
no  longer  entirely  alone.  "  I  have  again,"  she  adds, 
"  commenced  my  studies,  and  keep  myself  closely 
engaged  until  two  o'clock.  This  1  find  the  best 
method  to  avoid  dejection ;  besides,  my  conscience 
will  not  permit  me  to  sit  idly  down  and  yield  to  those 
desponding  feelings  in  which  a  Christian  should  not 
indulge."  Her  anxieties  in  regard  to  her  husband 
w^ere,  however,  soon  to  cease.  Under  date  of  August 
2,  1818,  she  thus  wrote  to  her  parents  :  "  How  will 
you  rejoice  with  me,  my  dear  parents,  when  I  tell 
you  that  I  have  this  moment  heard  that  Mr.  Jud- 
son has  arrived  at  the  mouth  of  the  river  !  This 
joyful  intelligence  more  than  compensates  for  the 
months  of  dejection  and  distress  which  his  long 
absence  has  occasioned.  Now  I  feel  ashamed  of  my 
repinings,  my  want  of  confidence  in  God  and  resigna- 
tion to  his  will.  I  have  foolishly  thought,  because 
my  trials  were  protracted,  they  would  never  end,  or, 
rather,  that  they  would  terminate  in  some  dreadful 
event,  which  would  destroy  all  hope  of  the  final  suc- 
cess of  the  mission.  But  now  I  trust  our  prospects 
wdll  again  brighten,  and  cause  us  to  forget  this  night 
of  affliction,  or  to  remember  it  as  having  been  the 
means  of  preparing  us  for  the  reception  of  that 
greatest  of  blessings  —  the  conversion  of  some  of 
the    Burmans."  * 

*Mrs.  Judson's  Mission  to  Bui-mah,  pp.  106-107. 


CHAPTER    VII. 

CONFIDENCE  IN  GOD.  — VIEWS  OF  TUE  IMPORTANCE  OF  mEACH. 
ING  THE  GOSPEL. —  THAT  WORK  COMMENCED. —OPENING  OF 
THE  ZAYAT.  —  FIRST  CONVERTS  TO  THE  CHRISTIAN  RELIGION. 
—  PREPARATIONS  FOR  VISITING  AVA. 

1818-1819. 

We  have  now  arrived  at  a  most  interesting  period 
in  the  history  of  the  mission.  Mr.  Judson  had  made 
himself,  in  a  remarkable  degree,  familiar  with  the^  lan- 
guage. He  had  published  and  circulated  a  tract,  in 
which  the  doctrines  and  duties  of  the  Christian  reli- 
gion were  briefly  but  clearly  exhibited.  Some  por- 
tions of  the  Scriptures  were  also  translated,  and  in  the 
hands  of  the  people.  These  writings,  so  unlike  any 
thing  which  they  had  ever  before  seen,  began  to  at- 
tract the  attention  of  the  natives.  Although  Mr. 
Hough  and  his  family  returned  to  Calcutta,  where,  for 
a  while,  the  Burman  printing  was  executed,  yet  the 
mission  had  been  strengthened  by  the  arrival  of 
Messrs.  Colman  and  Wheelock,  young  men  of  ardent 
piety  and  great  promise  of  usefulness.  They,  with 
their  wives,  arrived  in  Rangoon,  September  19,  1818, 
and  entered  upon  their  work  with  a  simple-hearted 
Christian  earnestness  which  has  embalmed  their 
names  in  the  memory  of  every  friend  of  missions.* 

*  The  career  of  these  interesting  young  men  was,  however,  destined 
to  bo  but  short.  Mr.  "WTieelock,  soon  after  his  arrival  at  Rangoon, 
was  attacked  by  bleeding  from  the  lungs,  which  soon  terminated  in  pul- 
monary consumption.  It  was  that  form  of  this  malady  which,  in  its 
last  stage;?,  alternates  with  disease  of  the  brain,  producing  mental  de- 
rangement.     After    suffering  for  some  time  in  Rangoon,  he   deter- 

204 


CONFIDEXCE    IN    GOD.  205 

During  these  long  years  of  preparation,  surrounded 
by  heathen,  not  one  of  whom  had  ever  received  a  sin- 
gle Christian  idea,  and,  for  the  greater  part  of  the 
time,  destitute  of  any  religious  associations,  except 
what  they  found  in  each  other,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Judson 
were  never  for  a  moment  harassed  with  a  doubt  of 
ultimate  success.  It  never  entered  into  their  minds 
that  it  might  be  desirable  to  find  a  more  promising 
field.  If  the  idea  had  once  arrested  their  attention, 
he  could  not,  he  said,  tell  what  the  result  might  have 
been  ;  but  God  preserved  them  from  being  tempted 
with  it.  They  never  felt  a  single  regret  or  misgiving, 
and  hence  their  letters  never  even  allude  to  it,  except 
it  be  to  encourage  their  friends  at  home,  who,  they 
feared,  might  despond,  in  consequence  of  their  want 
of  success.  They  always  enjoyed  the  most  entire 
certainty  as  to  the  result  of  their  labors,  though  oc- 
casionally doubting  whether  they  should  live  to  wit- 
ness it.      Their   confidence  rested   solely  and    exclu- 

mined  to  sail  for  Calcutta,  in  the  hope  df  deriving  benefit  from  the 
voyage.  On  the  passage,  in  a  fit  of  insanity,  he  threw  himseK  over- 
board, and  was  drowned.  His  widow  was  subsequently  married  in 
Calcutta,  w^here  she  has  since  resided.  Mr.  Colman  was  also  threat- 
ened, at  the  beginning  of  his  residence  in  India,  with  pvdmonary  dis- 
ease. From  this  he  recovered,  and  was  a  beloved  co-worker  with  IMr. 
Judson  until  their  return  from  the  first  visit  to  Ava.  It  was  then 
deemed  important  to  establish  another  mission  station  on  the  con- 
fines of  Burmah,  to  which,  in  case  of  intolerable  persecution,  the 
missionaries  and  the  converts  might  resort,  and  from  which  the  gos- 
pel might  penetrate  into  the  empii-e.  Chittagong  was  selected  for 
this  purpose,  and  Mr.  Colman  proceeded  to  occupy  it.  He  found, 
however,  that  Cox's  Bazaar,  a  native  but  unhealthy  village  in  the 
neighborhood,  was  better  adapted  to  missionary  objects  ;  and  here  he 
fixed  his  residence.  Incessant  labor  soon  brought  on  the  fever  of  the 
country,  and  he  died  July  4,  1822.  This  was  the  severest  blow 
Avhich  the  mission  had  yet  received.  His  widow  Ls  now  the  wife  of 
Rev.  A.  Sutton,  D.  D.,  of  the  Orissa  mission. 
VOL.    I.  18 


20G  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

sively  on  the  word  of  God.  They  believed  that  he 
had  promised  ;  they,  doing  as  they  believed  his  will, 
accepted  the  promise  as  addressed  to  themselves  per- 
sonally. Their  daily  work  was  a  transaction  between 
God  and  their  own  souls.  It  never  seemed  possible 
to  them  that  God  could  be  false  to  his  promises. 
Their  confidence  was  the  offspring  of  that  faith  which 
is  the  substance  of  things  hoped  for,  the  evidence  of 
things  not  seen.  By  it  they  went  forth,  not  knowing 
whither  they  went.  By  faith,  through  many  long 
years  of  discouragement,  they  endured,  as  seeing  Him 
who  is  invisible  ;  relying  not  at  all  on  what  they  could 
do,  but  wholly  on  what  God  had  promised  to  do  for 
them. 

I  am  well  aware  that  all  missions,  whose  object  it 
is  radically  to  renew  and  render  meet  for  heaven  the 
heart  of  man,  must  be  sustained  by  the  same  confi- 
dence in  God.  Nothing  could  be  more  absurd  than 
the  attempt,  by  human  power,  to  create  or  to  sustain 
in  the  human  soul  that  holiness  without  which  no 
man  shall  see  the  Lord.  Paul  may  plant,  Apollos 
may  water,  but  God  giveth  the  increase.  The  faith 
through  which  we  are  saved  is  the  gift  of  God.  But 
while  all  this  is  generally  acknowledged,  there  are  dif- 
ferences, both  in  the  simplicity  with  which  it  is  re- 
ceived, and  the  boldness  with  which  it  is  carried  into 
practice.  -The  belief  that  the  conversion  of  men  is 
the  work  of  the  Spirit,  and  the  reliance  on  the  promise 
of  God  that  he  will  make  the  message  of  the  gospel 
effectual  to  the  salvation  of  men,  w^herever  it  is  deliv- 
ered in  faith  and  love,  seem  I  think,  to  have  stood 
out  in  bolder  relief  in  the  planting  of  this  mission, 
than  in  many  others  with  which  I  am  acquainted. 

This  peculiarity    gave    rise   to  several  others.     As 


PREACHING    OF    THE    GOSPEL    THE    CHIEF    AVORK.       207 

Mr.  Judson  believed  that  this  was  the  work  of  God, 
one  thing  seemed  to  him  just  as  easy  as  another. 
Nothing  is  difficult  to  omnipotence.  "  He  spake  and 
it  was,  he  commanded  and  it  stood  fast."  The  most 
direct  way  of  securing  the  aid  of  almighty  power,  is 
to  follow  in  the  path  marked  out  by  omniscient  wis- 
dom. Mr.  Judson  therefore  endeavored,  first  of  all, 
to  ascertain  the  manner  in  which  Christ  and  his  apos- 
tles labored  to  extend  Christianity.  This  seems  plain- 
ly exemplified  in  the  New  Testament.  It  is  by  the 
action  of  individual  mind  on  individual  mind.  It  is 
by  embracing  every  opportunity,  which  our  intercourse 
with  men  presents,  to  tell  them  of  the  love  of  Christ, 
of  their  danger  and  their  duty,  and  to  urge  them,  in 
Christ's  stead,  to  be  reconciled  to  God.  Thus  did 
Christ,  and  thus  did  his  apostles  labor.  They  had  no 
plan,  no  sapping  and  mining,  no  preparatory  work,  ex- 
tending over  half  a  generation  before  they  should  be 
ready  for  direct  and  energetic  effort.  As  the  apos- 
tles opened  their  commission,  they  saw  that  it  com- 
manded them  to  preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature. 
They  obeyed  the  commandment,  and  God  wrought 
with  them  by  signs,  and  wonders,  and  mighty  deeds. 
Mr.  Judson  followed  these  examples,  and  his  labors 
were  attended  with  signal  success. 

Hence  it  will  be  perceived  that  he  addressed  him- 
self at  once  to  adults,  to  those  who  denied  the  exist- 
ence of  an  eternal  God  ;  and  the  Holy  Spirit  carried 
the  message  directly  to  their  hearts.  Missionaries 
have  sometimes  said  that  we  could  scarcely  expect 
men  grown  old  in  heathenism  ever  to  be  converted, 
since  they  were  beyond  the  reach,  at  least,  of  our  im- 
mediate eftbrts.  We  must  therefore  begin  with  chil- 
dren.     We  must  establish  schools,   by  our  superior 


208  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSOX. 

knowledge  gain  influence  over  the  young,  and  with 
their  daily  lessons  instil  into  their  minds  a  knowledge 
of  Christianity.  And  more  than  this :  as  the  re- 
ligious systems  of  the  heathen  are  indissolubly  asso- 
ciated with  false  views  of  astronomy,  geography,  and 
physical  science  generally,  if  we  can  correct  these 
errors,  the  religion  resting  upon  them  must  by  neces- 
sity be  swept  away.  As  these  views  have  been  car- 
ried into  practice,  a  change  has  naturally  come  over 
missionary  stations.  Ministers  of  the  gospel  to 
the  heathen  have  become  schoolmasters.  Instead  of 
proclaiming  the  great  salvation,  they  have  occupied 
themselves  in  teaching  reading,  spelling,  geography, 
arithmetic,  and  astronomy.  While  some  are  thus  en- 
gaged as  teachers,  others  are  employed  as  book  mak- 
ers for  the  schools.  Thus  it  sometimes  comes  to  pass, 
that  of  the  men  sent  out  for  the  express  purpose  of 
preaching  the  gospel,  a  large  portion  do  not  preach 
the  gospel  at  all. 

Mr.  Judson,  as  I  have  remarked,  took  a  different 
view  of  the  work  to  which  he  considered  himself  set 
apart.  He  saw  men  all  around  him  perishing,  and  he 
at  once  offered  to  them  the  only  remedy  which  God 
had  provided.  He  believed  that  there  is  a  Holy  Ghost, 
and  that  to  him  the  hearts  of  all  men  are  open.  The 
apostles  were  not  sent  to  be  schoolmasters,  but  to  be 
heralds  and  ambassadors.  He  aimed  to  follow  closely 
in  their  footsteps,  and  hence  I  think  that  the  narrative 
of  his  labors  resembles  more  nearly  that  in  the  Acts  of 
the  Apostles  than  most  others  with  which  I  am  fa- 
miliar. 

And  in  all  this  I  cannot  but  believe  that  the  "  fool- 
ishness of  God  is  wiser  than  men."  The  gospel  is 
always  to  be  preached  to  parents,  rather  than  to  chil- 


OBJECT  AND  SUCCKSS  OF  HIS  LADOKS.       209 

dren ;  and  specially  so  in  the  first  planting  of  Christi- 
anity. The  first  profession  of  the  religion  of  Jesus 
must,  by  necessity,  expose  the  disciple  to  obloquy,  re- 
proach, and  persecution.  No  one  can  suppose  it  to 
be  the  will  of  God  that  all  these  are  first  to  be  borne 
by  little  children.  It  never  was,  and  it  never  will  be, 
done.  Besides,  the  influence  of  the  heathen  parent 
will  be  more  powerful  over  his  child  than  that  of  the 
Christian  school  teacher.  Hence,  while  schools  diiluse 
knowledge,  improve  the  intellect,  hasten  the  progress 
of  civilization,  and  are,  therefore,  benevolent  and  phil- 
anthropic, they  are  not,  as  it  seems  to  me,  the  mis- 
sionary work  which  Christ  committed  to  his  disciples. 
That  they  have  done  good  who  can  doubt  ?  But,  as 
a  means  for  converting  men,  that  they  have  fallen 
very  far  below  the  simple  preaching  of  the  gospel,  is, 
I  think,  beyond  a  question.  The  preaching  of  Mr. 
Abbott  and  his  assistants,  in  Arracan,  has,  I  believe, 
been  the  instrument  of  more  conversions  than  all  the 
school  teaching  of  Protestant  missions  for  the  last 
thirty  years. 

And  here  it  may  be  worth  while  to  observe  the  ob- 
ject which  Mr.  Judson  always  kept  steadily  in  view, 
to  the  exclusion  of  every  other.  It  was  not  to  teach 
men  a  creed,  or  to  train  them  to  the  performance  of 
certain  rites,  or  to  persuade  them  to  belong  to  a  par- 
ticular church,  but  first  of  all  to  produce  in  them  a 
radical  and  universal  change  of  moral  character,  to 
lead  them  to  repent  of  and  forsake  all  sin,  to  love 
God  with  an  affection  that  should  transcend  in  power 
every  other  motive,  and  to  rely  for  salvation  wholly  on 
the  merits  of  that  atonement  which  has  been  made  for 
man  by  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ.  It  pleased 
God  to  crown  his  labors  with  success.  It  will  be  seen 
that,  as  the  fruit  of  his  labors,  this  type  of  character, 
18* 


210  MEMOIR    OF    BR.   JUDSON. 

SO  peculiar  to  the  New  Testament,  was  created  in  the 
souls  of  ignorant,  licentious,  and  atheistic  Buddhists. 
These  disciples  talk,  and  act,  and  feel  in  the  very  spirit 
of  Christ  and  his  apostles.  Never,  until  this  temper 
of  heart  was  exhibited,  were  they  admitted  to  the  or- 
dinance of  baptism,  and  received  as  members  of  the 
Christian  church.  At  the  same  time,  the  persecu- 
tions to  which  they  would  be  exposed  were  plainly  set 
before  them.  They  were  told  that  unless  they  loved 
Christ  better  than  houses,  or  lands,  or  brethren,  or 
their  own  lives,  they  could  not  be  his  disciples.  No 
one  who  could  not  bear  this  test  was  encouraged  to 
hope  that  he  was  a  child  of  God.  And  yet,  in  view 
of  all  this,  many  earnestly  desired  permission  to  pro- 
fess themselves  the  disciples  of  Jesus.  Such,  and  such 
only,  formed  the  church  at  Rangoon.  He  believed 
himself  authorized  to  admit  to  the  fellowship  of  saints 
none  but  those  on  whom  this  great  moral  change  had 
passed.  Hence  we  find  in  his  journals  no  account 
of  children  who  were  baptized  on  the  faith  of  their 
parents.  He  believed  religion  to  be  a  personal  matter 
between  God  and  the  soul  of  man  ;  and  hence,  where 
there  could  be  no  evidence  of  a  renewal  of  the  moral 
nature  of  man,  there  could  be  no  reason  for  admitting 
an  individual,  whether  young  or  old,  to  the  ordinances 
of  a  spiritual  church.  It  is  in  this  respect  mainly  that 
Christians  of  the  Baptist  persuasion  differ  from  their 
brethren  who  hold  with  them  the  other  great  doctrines 
of  the  reformation. 

A  few  events  alluded  to  in  the  following  journals 
and  letters  may  properly  be  inserted  here,  in  chrono- 
logical order. 

April  4, 1819.  Public  worship  was  commenced  in 
the  Burman  language. 


INADEQUACY    OF    HUMAN    ACCOMPLISUMICNTS.  211 

April  25.  Tlic  zayat  was  opened  for  public  in- 
struction in  religion. 

June  27.  Moung  Nau,  the  first  Burman  convert, 
was  baptized. 

July  29.  A  revision  and  enlargement  of  tract  num- 
ber one,  and  tract  number  two,  with  a  catechism  in 
Burman   by  Mrs.  Judson,  were  completed. 

August  7.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  VVheelock  sailed  for  Ben- 
gal. 

Extract  from  a  Letter  to  a  Friend. 

Raxgoox,  October  9,  1818. 

Rev.  AND  DEAR  Sir  :  Yours  of  March  12  and  18,  1817, 
arrived  here  during  my  absence,  or  I  should  have  replied 
long  ago.  Yours  of  the  following  November  wr>?  brought  by 
the  brethrea,  who  arrived  here  the  19th  of  last  month  — 
about  six  weeks  after  my  return. 

In  regard  to  the  education  necessary  for  missionaries,  it 
appears  to  me  that  whatever  of  mental  improvement,  or  of 
literary  and  scientific  attainment,  is  desirable  in  a  minister  at 
home,  is  desirable  in  a  missionary.  I  think  I  could  illustrate 
this  in  a  variety  of  particulars  ;  but  the  limits  of  a  letter  do 
not  allow.  I  feel,  however,  more  and  more,  the  inadequacy 
and  comparative  insignificance  of  all  human  accomplishments, 
whether  in  a  minister  or  a  missionary,  and  the  unspeakable, 
overwhelming  importance  of  spiritual  gi-aces,  —  humility,  pa- 
tience, meekness,  love,  —  the  habitual  enjoyment  of  closet 
religion,  a  soul  abstracted  from  this  world,  and  much  occupied 
in  the  contemplation  of  heavenly  glories.  Here  I  cannot 
help  digressing  from  the  subject  to  myself.  You  know  not, 
my  dear  sir,  you  cannot  conceive,  how  utterly  unfit  I  am  for 
the  work  in  which  I  am  engaged.  I  am,  indeed,  a  worm,  and 
no  man.  It  is  a  wonder  that  I  am  allowed  to  live  as  a  mis- 
sionary among  the  heathen,  and  receive  an  undeserved  sup- 
port from  the  dear  people  of  God  —  from  many  who  are  poor 
in  this  world,  but  rich  in  faith.  Yet  I  feel  necessity  laid  on 
me  to  remam  here,  and  try  to  do  a  little  something. 


212  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

In  regard  to  an  interview  with  the  king,  I  have  long  thought 
it  desirable,  but  have  never  felt  that  the  time  had  come.  I 
would  rather  that  God  should  open  the  way  than  attempt  to 
open  it  myself. 

To  the  Corrcs2Jondlnff  Secretary. 

Hangoon,  February  20,  1819. 

Rev.  and  dear  Sir  :  The  prospect  of  the  speedy  de- 
parture of  a  vessel  for  Bengal  reminds  us  of  our  unanswered 
letters.  Brother  Colman  has  nearly  recovered  his  health, 
which  suffered  much  on  his  first  arrival.  But  brother  Whec- 
lock  still  remains  in  a  low,  and,  I  fear,  declining  state. 

My  time,  for  the  last  few  months,  has  been  divided  betAveen 
reading  Burman,  writing  some  portions  of  Scripture,  and 
other  things  preparatory  to  public  worship,  holding  conversa- 
tions on  religion,  and  superintending  the  erection  of  a  zayat, 
(as  the  Burmans  call  it,)  or  place  of  public  resort,  where  we 
intend  to  spend  much  of  our  time,  and  where  we  hope  to  have 
stated  worship,  or,  at  least,  to  try  the  practicability  of  such  an 
attempt  under  this  government. 

The  peculiarly  retired  situation  of  the  mission  house  has 
long  rendered  the  erection  of  such  a  building,  or  a  change  of 
residence,  a  very  desirable  measure.  After  much  hesitation 
and  perplexity  about  our  duty,  we  were  so  fortunate  as  to 
procure,  at  a  very  moderate  price,  a  piece  of  ground  v/hich  is 
contiguous  to  the  mission  premises,  and  at  the  same  time  opens 
on  a  public  road.  The  building  is  now  going  up,  with  such 
scanty  materials  and  means  as  we  can  afford,  or,  ratlier,  as  we 
think  you  can  afford.  The  whole  concern  will  cost  about  two 
hundred  dollars.  And  should  this  zayat  prove  to  be  a  Chris- 
tian meeting  house,  the  first  erected  in  this  land  of  atheists, 
for  the  worship  of  God  —  a  house  where  Burmans  Avho  now 
deny  the  very  existence  of  Deity  shall  assemble  to  adore  the 
majesty  of  heaven,  and  to  sing  with  hearts  of  devotion  the 

praises  of  the  incarnate  Saviour But  the  thought  seems 

too  great  to  be  realized.     Can  this  darkness  be  removed  ? 
Can  these  dry  bones  live?     On  thee,  Jesus,  all  our  hopes 


PUBLIC    WORSHIP    COMMENCED.  213 

depend.     In  thee  all  power  is  vested,  even  power  to  make 
sinful  creatures  instrumental  of  enlightening  the  heathen. 

You  want  to  hear  of  some  poor  benighted  Burman  brought 
to  taste  that  the  Lord  is  gracious ;  but  O,  not  more  than  I 
want  to  speak  of  it.  I  hope,  I  do  hope,  my  dear  sir,  that  we 
shall  both  one  day  be  gratified. 

I  remain,  with  much  affection  and  respect, 

Yours,  &c., 

A.  JuDSOX,  Jr. 

Mr.  Jadsoiis  Journal,  addressed  to  the  Corresponding  Secretary, 

April  4,  1819.  My  close  application  to  the  Burman  dic- 
tionary during  the  year  1817,  and  my  subsequent  loss  of 
nearly  a  year  in  the  unsuccessful  attempt  to  visit  Chittagong, 
have  occasioned  a  long  interruption  in  my  journal.  Since  my 
return  to  Rangoon,  the  little  I  have  to  say  I  have  communi- 
cated in  letters.  With  this  day,  a  new,  and  I  hope  important 
era  in  the  mission,  I  resume  the  journal. 

To-day,  the  building  of  the  zayat  being  sufHciently  advanced 
for  the  purpose,  I  called  together  a  few  people  that  live  around 
us,  and  commenced  public  worship  in  the  Burman  language. 
I  say  commenced.,  for,  though  I  have  frequently  read  and  dis- 
coursed to  the  natives,  I  have  never  before  conducted  a  course 
of  exercises  which  deserved  the  name  of  'public  worship,  ac- 
cording to  the  usual  acceptation  of  that  phrase  among  Chris- 
tians ;  and  though  I  began  to  preach  the  gospel  as  soon  as  I 
could  speak  intelligibly,  I  have  thought  it  hardly  becoming  to 
apply  the  term  preacJiing,  since  it  has  acquired  an  appropri- 
ate meaning  in  modern  use,  to  my  imperfect,  desultory  ex- 
hortations and  conversations.  But  I  hope,  though  with  fear 
and  trembling,  that  I  have  now  commenced  a  course  of  public 
worship  and  regular  preaching.  This  would  have  taken  place 
just  a  year  ago,  had  I  returned  to  Rangoon,  as  I  expected,  and 
still  earlier,  had  I  not  been  under  a  government  where  I 
thought  it  prudent  to  gain  a  considerable  acquaintance  with  the 
language  before  commencing  public  operations,  lest  I  should 
be  unable  properly  to  vindicate  my  conduct  when  called  to  a 
judicial  account. 


214  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

The  congregation  to-day  consisted  of  fifteen  persons  only, 
besides  children.  Much  disorder  and  inattention  prevailed, 
most  of  them  not  having  been  accustomed  to  attend  Burman 
worship.  May  the  Lord  grant  his  blessing  on  attempts  made 
in  great  weakness  and  under  great  disadvantages  ;  and  all  the 
glory  will  be  his. 

April  G.  This  evening  I  went,  for  the  second  time,  to 
hear  a  popular  Burman  preacher.  On  our  arrival,  we  found 
a  zayat,  in  the  precincts  of  one  of  the  most  celebrated  pagodas, 
lighted  up,  and  the  floor  spread  with  mats.  In  the  centre  was 
a  frame  raised  about  eighteen  inches  from  the  ground,  where 
the  preacher,  on  his  arrival,  seated  himself.  He  appeared  to 
be  about  forty-five  years  old,  of  very  pleasant  countenance 
and  harmonious  speech.  He  was  once  a  priest,  but  is  now  a 
layman.  The  people,  as  they  came  in,  seated  themselves  on 
the  mats,  the  men  on  one  side  of  the  house,  and  the  women  on 
the  other.  It  was  an  undistinguished  day,  and  the  congrega- 
tion was  very  small,  not  more  than  one  hundred.  When  we 
entered,  some  said,  "  There  come  some  wild  foreigners."  But 
when  we  sat  down  properly,  and  took  off  our  shoes,  they  began 
to  say,  "  No,  they  are  not  wild ;  they  are  civilized."  Some  recog- 
nized me,  and  said  to  one  another,  "It  is  the  English  teacher" 
—  a  name  by  which  I  am  commonly  known.  The  preacher 
soon  took  notice  of  us,  entered  into  some  conversation,  invited  us 
to  visit  him,  and  so  on  ;  but  on  learning  that  I  was  a  missionary, 
or,  in  their  idiom,  a  religion-making  teacher,  his  countenance 
fell,  and  he  said  no  more.  The  people  being  now  convened, 
one  appointed  for  the  purpose  called  three  times  for  silence 
and  attention.  Each  one  then  took  the  flowers  and  leaves 
which  had  been  previously  distributed,  and  placing  them  be- 
tween his  fingers,  raised  th&m  to  his  head,  and  in  that  respect- 
ful posture  remained  motionless  until  the  service  was  closed. 
This  ceremony  we  of  course  declined.  When  all  things  were 
properly  adjusted,  the  preacher  closed  his  eyes,  and  com- 
menced the  exercise,  which  consisted  in  repeating  a  portion 
from  their  sacred  writings.  Ilis  subject  was  the  conversion 
of  the  two  prime  disciples  of  Gaudama,  and  their  subsequent 


THE   ZAYAT    OPENED.  215 

promotion  and  glory.  His  oratory  I  found  to  be  entirely  dif- 
ferent from  all  that  we  call  oratory.  At  first  he  seems  dull 
and  monotonous ;  but  presently  his  soft,  mellifluent  tones  win 
their  way  into  the  heart,  and  lull  the  soul  into  that  state  of 
calmness  and  serenity  which  to  a  Burman  mind  somewhat 
resembles  the  boasted  perfection  of  thek  saints  of  old.  His 
discourse  continued  about  half  an  hour  ;  and,  at  the  close,  the 
whole  assembly  burst  out  into  a  short  prayer,  after  which  all 
rose  and  retired.  This  man  exhibits  twice  every  evening,  in 
different  places.  Indeed,  he  is  the  only  popular  lay  preacher 
in  the  place.  As  for  the  priests,  they  preach  on  special  occa- 
sions only,  when  they  are  drawn  from  their  seclusion  and  inac- 
tivity by  the  solicitations  of  their  adherents. 

April  28.  Nothing  interesting  through  the  day.  At  night, 
encountered  a  bitter  opposer ;  he  had  visited  Bengal,  and  some 
foe  to  missions  had  poisoned  his  mind ;  he  manifested  a  most 
virulent  spirit.  I  felt  that  he  would  most  gladly  be  foremost 
in  destroying  us.  But  through  divine  grace,  I  was  enabled  to 
treat  him  with  meekness  and  gentleness,  and  he  finally  left  me 
politely.  He  appeared  to  be  rich,  and  had  several  followers. 
In  the  evening,  there  were  some  hopeful  appearances  in 
Mrs.  Judson's  female  meeting  —  a  meeting  which  she  has 
recommenced  since  public  worship  has  been  set  up  in  the 
zayat. 

April  29.  A  precious  case  has  just  occurred.  A  young 
man  of  twenty-four,  by  name  Moung  Koo,  happened  to  stroll 
in  last  Sunday,  and  was  present  at  worship.  He  appeared  to 
be  ratlier  wild  and  noisy,  though  his  manners  were  respectful. 
He  took  a  tract,  and  went  away.  This  morning  he  made  his 
appearance  again,  and  has  been  with  me  about  two  hours.  1 
have  been  enabled,  through  divine  assistance,  to  give  him  a 
great  deal  of  truth,  and  especially  to  expatiate  with  some  feel- 
ing on  the  love  and  sufferings  of  the  Saviour.  The  truth  seems 
to  have  taken  hold  of  his  mind.  And  though  he  is  quick  and 
sensible,  and  has  some  savage  fire  in  his  eye,  he  is  very  docile, 
and  ready  to  drink  in  the  truth,  without  the  numberless  cavils 
and  objections  which  are  so  common  among  the  Burmans.     He 


216  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSOX. 

engaged  to  come  next  Sunday,  promised  to  pray  constantly, 
and  gave  me  his  name,  that  I  might  pray  for  liim,  that  he 
might  be  a  disciple  of  Christ,  and  be  delivered  from  hell.  I 
feel  considerable  attachment  to  this  young  man,  and  my  heart 
goes  forth  to  the  mercy  scat  in  behalf  of  his  precious  soul. 

April  30.  I  was  agreeably  surprised  in  the  morning  to  see 
the  young  man  of  yesterday  come  again  so  soon.  He  staid  all 
the  forenoon,  and  seemed  desirous  of  hearing  as  much  as  pos- 
sible about  religion.  Several  others  came  and  went.  A  very 
busy  day ;  hardly  time  to  prepare  these  minutes  to  be  forward- 
ed by  a  vessel  which  leaves  this  port  for  Bengal  early  to-mor- 
row morning. 

May  1,  1819.  Burman  day  of  worship  ;  of  coiu'se  many 
visitors  ;  among  the  rest,  Moung  Nau,  a  man  who  was  with 
me  several  hours  yesterday ;  but,  from  his  silence  and  reserve, 
excited  little  attention  or  hope.  To-day,  however,  I  begin  to 
think  better  of  him.  Moung  Koo  came  again  at  night,  and 
appeared  pretty  well.  These  two  men,  with  tlie  two  persons 
from  Kambet,  of  the  27th,  I  call  the  fruits  of  the  week. 
But  let  us  see  who  of  them  will  remember  the  day  of 
worship. 

May  2,  Lord's  day.  About  three  o'clock,  the  quiet  and 
modest  Moung  Nau  came  in  and  took  his  usual  place.  For 
the  others  we  looked  in  vain.  About  thirty  present  at  wor- 
ship. Very  few  paid  much  attention,  or  probably  received  any 
benefit. 

May  3.  Among  the  vistors  of  to-day  was  a  respectable 
man,  formerly  an  officer,  now  a  merchant,  resident  at  Little 
Bridge,  a  village  contiguous  to  Kambet.  After  long  and 
various  conversation,  in  which  he  paid  close  and  respectful 
attention,  he  said  that  he  was  a  person  not  a  little  versed  in 
Burman  literature,  but  that  he  now  saw  he  had  erred  in  all ; 
he  regretted  that  he  had  lived  two  years  in  the  neighborhood 
without  knowing  me ;  to-day  was  an  auspicious  day ;  he  wished 
to  become  my  disciple,  would  read  my  writings  with  attention, 
and  come  as  often  as  possible. 

May  5.     Moung  Nau  has  been  v/ith  me  several  hours.     I 


FIRST    BURMESE    CONVERT.  217 

begin  to  think  that  the  grace  of  God  has  reached  his  heart, 
lie  expresses  sentiments  of  repentance  for  his  sins,  and  faith 
in  tlie  Saviour.  The  substance  of  his  profession  is,  that  from 
the  darknesses,  and  uncleannesses,  and  sins  of  his  whole  life,  he 
has  found  no  other  Saviour  but  Jesus  Christ ;  nowhere  else 
can  he  look  for  salvation ;  and  therefore  he  proposes  to  adhere 
to  Christ,  and  worship  him  all  his  life  long. 

It  seems  almost  too  much  to  believe  that  God  has  begun  to 
manifest  his  grace  to  the  Burmans  ;  but  this  day  I  could  not 
resist  the  delightful  conviction  that  this  is  really  the  case. 
Praise  and  glory  be  to  his  name  forevermore. 
Amen. 

May  6.  Moung  Nau  was  again  with  me  a  great  part  of 
the  day.  He  appears  to  be  slowly  growing  in  religious  knowl- 
edge, and  manifests  a  teachable,  humble  spirit,  ready  to  be- 
lieve all  that  Christ  has  said,  and  obey  all  that  he  has  com- 
manded. He  is  thirty-five  years  old ;  no  family,  middling 
abilities,  quite  poor,  obhged  to  work  for  his  living,  and  there- 
fore his  coming,  day  after  day,  to  hear  the  truth  affords 
stronger  evidence  that  it  has  taken  hold  of  his  mind.  May 
the  Lord  graciously  lead  his  dark  mind  into  all  the  truth, 
and  cause  him  to  cleave  inviolably  to  the  blessed  Saviour. 

May  8.  Burman  day  of  worshi23.  Thronged  with  visitors 
through  the  day.  Had  more  or  less  company,  without  inter- 
mission, for  about  eight  hours.  Several  heard  much  of  the 
gospel,  and  engaged  to  come  again.  Moung  Nau  Avas  with  me 
a  great  part  of  the  day,  and  assisted  me  much  in  explaining 
tilings  to  new  comers.  Towards  night  a  man  came  in,  by 
name  Moung  Shwaa  Go,  whom  I  think  it  time  to  mention  par-^ 
ticularly,  as  he  has  visited  me  several  times ;  and  though,  like 
Moung  Nau,  apparently  backward  at  first,  he  appears  to  be 
really  thoughtful.  He  is  a  young  man  of  twenty-seven,  of 
very  pleasant  exterior,  and  evidently  in  good  circumstances. 
Poor  Moung  Koo,  who  appeared  so  forward  at  first,  alas !  too 
forward  !  has  quite  discontinued  his  visits.  No  news  yet  from 
the  villagers  of  Kambet  and  Little  Bridge. 

May    9,   Lord's    day.        Moung   Shwaa  Go  came   in  the 
VOL.   I.  19 


218  MEMOIR    OF    DIl.   JUDSOX. 

morning,  and  staid  through  the  whole  day.  Only  two  or  three 
of  all  I  conversed  with  yesterday  came  again.  Had,  however, 
an  assembly  of  thirty.  After  worship,  some  w\arm  disputa- 
tion. I  begin  to  feel  that  the  Burmans  cannot  stand  before 
the  truth.  In  the  course  of  the  conversation,  Moung  Nau  de- 
clared himself  a  disciple  of  Christ,  in  presence  of  a  consid- 
erable number  ;  and  even  Moung  Shwaa  Oo  appeared  to  in- 
cline the  same  way. 

May  10.  Early  in  the  morning,  Moung  Nau  came  to  take 
leave,  being  obliged  to  go  to  a  distance  after  timber,  his  usual 
occupation.  I  took  him  alone  and  prayed  with  him,  and  gave 
him  a  written  prayer  to  help  him  in  his  private  devotion.  He 
received  my  jDarting  instructions  wath  great  attention  and 
solemnity  ;  said  he  felt  that  he  was  a  disciple  of  Christ ;  hoped 
that  he  should  be  kept  from  falling ;  desired  the  prayers  of  us 
all ;  expressed  a  wish  that,  if  he  held  out  some  time  after  his 
return,  we  would  allow  him  to  profess  Christ  in  baptism ;  and 
so  he  departed.  The  Lord  Jesus  go  with  him  and  bless  him. 
He  is  poor.  I  felt  a  great  desire  to  give  him  something,  but 
thought  it  safer  to  put  no  temptation  in  his  way.  If,  on 
his  return,  he  still  cleaves  to  Christ,  his  profession  will  be 
more  satisfactory  than  it  would  be  if  he  had  any  expectations 
from  us. 

May  11.  Had  more  or  less  company,  from  morning  till 
night ;  among  the  rest,  Moung  Shwaa  Oo,  and  two  or  three 
others,  who  appear  to  be  pretty  w^ell  satisfied  that  the  Buddhist 
religion  has  no  foundation.  Conversation  was  very  animated, 
and  somewhat  encouraging ;  but  I  wanted  to  see  more  serious- 
ness, and  more  anxiety  to  be  saved  from  sin. 

Heard  much,  to-day,  of  the  danger  of  introducing  a  new 
religion.  All  agreed  in  opinion  that  the  king  would  cut  off 
all  who  embraced  it,  being  a  king  who  could  not  bear  that  his 
subjects  should  differ  in  sentiment  from  himself;  and  who  has, 
for  a  long  time,  persecuted  the  friends  of  the  established  re- 
ligion of  the  empire,  because  they  would  not  sanction  all  his 
innovations.  Those  who  seemed  most  favorably  disposed 
whispered  me  that  I  had  better  not  stay  in  Rangoon,  and  talk 


FIKST    BUUMKSE    CONVEllT.  219 

to  common  people,  but  go  directly  to  the  "  lord  of  life  and 
death''  If  he  approved  of  the  religion,  it  would  spread  rap- 
idly ;  but,  in  the  present  state  of  things,  nobody  would  dare 
to  prosecute  their  inquiries,  with  the  fear  of  the  king  before 
their  eyes.  They  brought  forward  the  case  of  the  Kolans, 
a  sect  of  Burmans  who  have  been  proscribed  and  put  to  death 
under  several  reigns.  I  tried  to  set  them  right  in  some  points, 
and  encourage  them  to  trust  in  the  care  of  an  almighty 
Saviour  ;  but  they  speak  low  and  look  around  fearfully  when 
they  mention  the  name  of  the  "  owner  of  the  sword." 

May  13.  Had  company  all  day,  without  intermission. 
About  noon,  Moung  Nau  came  in,  having  given  up  his  jour- 
ney on  account  of  the  unfaitlifulness  of  his  employer.  His 
behavior  and  conversation  were  very  satisfactory.  He  regrets 
the  want  of  a  believing  associate,  but  declares  his  determina- 
tion of  adhering  to  Christ,  though  no  Burman  should  ever 
join  him. 

Moung  Shwaa  Doan,  a  man  who  has  attended  two  Sundays 
and  made  some  occasional  visits,  was  with  me  several  hours. 
He  professes  to  have  felt  the  truth  of  this  religion  ever  since 
he  first  heard  about  it,  and  now  desires  to  be  a  disciple  of 
Christ.  He  has  obtained,  I  find,  considerable  knowledge  of 
the  Christian  system,  but  does  not  appear  to  have  much  sense 
of  his  own  sins.     May  the  Spirit  teach  him  what  man  cannot. 

May  15.  Moung  Nau  has  been  with  me  all  day,  as  well 
as  yesterday.  He  is  anxious  to  be  received  into  our  company, 
and  thinke  it  a  great  privilege  to  be  the  first  among  the  Bur- 
mans  in  professing  the  religion  of  Jesus  Christ.  He  has  been 
told  plainly  that  he  has  nothing  to  expect  in  this  world  but 
persecution,  and  perhaps  death ;  but  he  thinks  it  better  to  die 
for  Christ,  and  be  happy  hereafter,  than  to  live  a  few  days  and 
be  forever  wretched.  All  the  members  of  the  mission  have, 
at  difierent  times,  conversed  with  him,  and  are  satisfied  that  a 
work  of  grace  is  begun  in  his  heart. 

May  IG,  Lord's  day.  In  the  forenoon,  a  man  came  in 
from  Kyaikasan,  a  neighboring  village,  and  listened  with 
more  apparent  sincerity  than  is  commonly  manifested  the  first 


220  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

visit.  He  had  received  a  tract  about  a  year  ago,  and  liad 
thought  considerably  on  the  subject. 

About  the  usual  number  was  present  at  worship,  but  a 
larger  proportion  than  common  were  strangers.  A  lawyer 
belonging  to  the  viceroy,  and  some  other  respectable  persons, 
were  present,  and  gave  me  much  trouble,  without,  I  fear,  re- 
ceiving any  benefit.  Moung  Shwaa  Doan  was  present,  and 
appeared  pretty  well  after  worship.  Moung  Shwaa  Oo  has,  I 
suppose,  returned  to  Henthadah,  the  next  city  above  Eangoon. 
He  took  no  leave  of  me ;  yet  I  cannot  give  up  all  hope  of 
him.  The  last  visit,  he  said  he  should  constantly  read  my 
writings,  and  pray  to  the  eternal  God. 

May  17.  Moung  Nau  has  received  an  advantageous  offer  to 
go  to  Ava,  in  the  employ  of  a  boat  owner.  We  wer^  afraid 
to  dissuade  him  from  accepting,  as  he  has  no  way  of  getting  a 
living,  and  equally  unwilling  to  have  him  absent  several 
months.  At  length  we  advised  him  not  to  go,  and  he  at  once 
acquiesced. 

May  21.  Had  several  attentive  hearers  ;  among  the  rest 
Moung  A,  who  says  that  the  good  news  has  taken  hold  of  his 
mind.  I  have  been  so  frequently  disappointed  in  visitors  who 
appeared  promising  the  first  time,  but  never  came  again,  that 
I  have  lost  all  credit  in  early  professions  ;  yet  I  cannot  but 
hope  well  of  this  man,  especially  as  Moung  Nau  appeared  to 
like  him  better  than  any  other  inquirer. 

May  22.  We  have  taken  Moung  Nau  to  live  with  us,  in- 
tending to  employ  him  in  copying  some  small  things  for  dis- 
tribution, which  we  cannot  get  printed  at  present,  and  allow 
him  ten  ticals  a  month.  Our  principal  object,  however,  is  to 
keep  him  in  the  way  of  instruction,  hoping  that  he  w^ill 
ultimately  be  useful  to  his  countrymen. 

At  night,  Moung  A  came  the  second  time,  and  appeared 
anxious  to  know  the  way  of  salvation.  But  I  am  grieved  to 
find  that  he  is  going  away  on  business  to-morrow  morning,  and 
will  be  absent  a  long  time. 

May  23,  Lord's  day.  The  Kyaikasan  villager  Moung 
Nyo,  mentioned  last  Sunday,  came  again,  with  three  companions. 


REQUEST    FOR    BATTISM.  221 

He  staid  the  whole  day,  and  appears  to  be  in  the  same  state 
of  mind  as  Moung  A.  Both  say  they  are  convinced  that 
there  is  an  eternal  God  ;  that  having  denied  him  all  their 
lives,  and  of  course  lived  contrary  to  his  commands,  their  sins 
are  great ;  and  that  the  news  of  salvation,  through  the  death 
of  the  Son  of  God,  is  good  news.  Thus  far  they  venture. 
But  wliether  the  Spirit  has  given,  or  will  give,  them  true  love 
to  the  Saviour,  and  thus  enable  them  to  trust  in  him,  we  must 
leave  for  time  to  ascertain. 

June  G,  Lord's  day.  Had  two  interesting  visitors.  They 
were  present  at  worship,  and  staid  till  dark  —  certain  they 
should  come  again  —  but  will  they  ? 

After  partaking  of  the  Lord's  supper  in  the  evening,  we 
read  and  considered  the  following  letter  of  Moung  Nau,  which 
he  wrote  of  his  own  accord  :  — 

"  I,  Moung  Nau,  the  constant  recipient  of  your  excellent 
favor,  approach  your  feet.  AVhereas  my  Lord's  three  have 
come  to  the  country  of  Burmah,  —  not  for  the  purposes  of 
trade,  but  to  preach  the  religion  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of 
the  eternal  God,  —  I,  having  heard  and  understood,  am,  with  a 
joyful  mind,  filled  with  love. 

"  I  believe  that  the  divine  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  suffered  death, 
in  the  place  of  men,  to  atone  for  their  sins.  Like  a  heavy- 
laden  man,  I  feel  my  sins  are  very  many.  The  punishment 
of  my  sins  I  deserve  to  suffer.  Since  it  is  so,  do  you,  sirs, 
consider  that  I,  taking  refuge  in  the  merits  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  and  receiving  baptism,  in  order  to  become  his  disciple, 
shall  dwell  one  with  yourselves,  a  band  of  brothers,  in  the 
happiness  of  heaven,  and  therefore  grant  me  the  ordinance  of 
baptism.*  It  is  through  the  grace  of  Jesus  Christ  that  you, 
sirs,  have  come  by  ship  from  one  country  and  continent  to 
another,  and  that  we  have  met  together.     I  pray  my  Lord's 

*  At  the  time  of  -vNTiting  this,  not  havmg  heard  much  of  baptism, 
he  seems  to  have  ascribed  an  undue  efficacy  to  the  ordinance.     He 
has  since  conected  his  error ;  but  the  translator  thinks  it  the  most 
fair  and  impartial  to  give  the  letter  just  as  it  was  written  at  fii'st. 
19* 


222  ]\IKMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

three  that  a  suitable  day  may  be  appointed,  and  that  I  may 
receive  the  ordinance  of  baptism. 

"  Moreover,  as  it  is  only  since  I  have  met  Avith  you,  sirs,  that 
I  have  known  about  the  eternal  God,  I  venture  to  pray  that 
you  will  still  unfold  to  me  the  religion  of  God,  that  my  old  dis- 
position may  be  destroyed,  and  my  new  disposition  improved." 

We  have  all,  for  some  time,  been  satisfied  concerning  the 
reality  of  his  religion,  and  therefore  voted  to  receive  him  into 
church  fellowship,  on  his  being  baptized,  and  proposed  next 
Sunday  for  administering  the  ordinance. 

June  20,  Lord's  day.  For  the  last  fortnight,  have  had  but 
little  company  at  the  zayat,  owing  probably  to  the  rains  which 
have  now  fully  set  in.  The  town  has  also  been  in  great  con- 
fusion, in  prospect  of  the  viceroy's  departure  for  Ava.  We 
have  been  called  on  to  pay  another  tax  of  fifteen  ticals  —  got 
off  with  paying  half.  Have  had  several  other  molestations 
from  petty  officers  of  government.  Concluded  to  postpone 
Moung  Nau's  baptism  till  the  viceroy  be  fairly  off.  He  left 
Rangoon  yesterday,  and  has  arrived  at  the  next  village,  which 
is  a  kind  of  rendezvous  to  the  vast  multitude  of  boats  that 
accompany  him. 

To-day,  Moung  Shwaa  Doan  appeared  again,  after  an 
absence  of  several  weeks,  and  a  little  revived  our  hopes  con- 
cerning him.  Several,  whom  I  have  particularly  mentioned, 
have  discontinued  their  visits,  though  I  am  satisfied  that  they 
are  convinced  of  the  falsity  of  the  Burman  religion,  and  of 
the  truth  of  the  Christian.  I  cannot  possibly  penetrate  their 
motives.  Whether,  after  several  visits,  they  meet  with  some 
threatening  suggestion,  that  awakens  their  fears  of  persecu- 
tion, or  whether,  at  a  certain  stage  in  their  inquiries,  they  get 
such  an  insight  into  the  gospel  as  rouses  the  enmity  of  the 
carnal  heart,  I  am  not  able,  from  my  experience  hitherto,  to 
ascertain. 

June  21.  The  town  is  in  the  utmost  anxiety  and  alarm. 
Order  after  order  has  reached  our  viceroy,  to  hasten  his  return 
to  Ava,  with  all  the  troops  under  arms.  Great  news  are 
whispered.     Some  say  there  is  a   rebellion ;  some  say  the 


DEATH    OF    THE    KING.  223 

king  is  sick,  some  that  he  is  dead.  But  none  dure  to  say  this 
plainly.  It  would  be  a  crime  of  the  first  magnitude ;  for  the 
"  lord  of  land  and  loater  "  is  called  immortal.  The  eldest  son 
of  his  eldest  son  (his  father  being  dead)  has  long  been  de- 
clared the  heir  of  the  crown  ;  but  he  has  two  very  powerful 
uncles,  who,  it  is  supposed,  will  contest  his  right ;  and  in  all 
probability  the  whole  country  will  soon  be  a  scene  of  anarchy 
and  civil  war. 

June  22.  Out  all  the  morning,  listening  for  news,  uncer- 
tain whether  a  day  or  an  hour  Avill  not  plunge  us  into  the 
greatest  distress.  The  whole  place  is  sitting  in  sullen  silence, 
expecting  an  explosion.  About  10  o'clock,  a  royal  despatch 
boat  pulls  up  to  the  shore.  An  imperial  mandate  is  produced. 
The  crowds  make  way  for  the  sacred  messengers,  and  follow 
them  to  the  high  court,  where  the  authorities  of  the  place 
are  assembled.  Listen  ye :  The  immortal  king,  wearied,  it 
would  seem,  with  the  fatigues  of  royalty,  has  gone  up  to 
amuse  himself  in  the  celestial  regions.  His  grandson,  the 
heir  apparent,  is  seated  on  the  throne.  The  young  monarch 
enjoins  on  all  to  remain  quiet,  and  wait  his  imperial  orders. 

It  appears  that  the  Prince  of  Toung  Oo,  one  of  his  uncles, 
has  been  executed,  with  his  family  and  adherents,  and  the 
Prince  of  Pyee  placed  in  confinement.  There  has  probably 
been  bloody  work ;  but  it  seems,  from  what  has  transpired, 
that  the  business  has  been  settled  so  expeditiously  that  the 
distant  provinces  will  not  feel  the  shock. 

June  23.  Had  some  encouraging  conversation  with  Moung 
Thahlah,  a  young  man  who  has  been  living  in  our  yard  several 
months.  He  has  lately  made  me  several  visits  at  the  zayat,  and 
appeared  very  thoughtful  and  teachable.  To-day,  on  being 
asked  the  state  of  his  mind,  he  replied,  with  some  feeling,  that  he 
and  all  men  were  sinners,  and  exposed  to  future  punishment ; 
that  according  to  the  Buddhist  system,  there  was  no  way  of  par- 
don ;  but  that  according  to  the  religion  which  I  taught,  there 
was  not  only  a  way  of  pardon,  but  a  way  of  enjoying  endless 
happiness  in  heaven  ;  and  that,  therefore,  he  wanted  to  believe 
in  Christ.     I  stated  to  him,  as  usual,  that  he  must  think  much 


224  MEMOIR    OF    DR.   JUDSON. 

on  the  love  of  Christ,  and  pray  to  God  for  an  enlightened  and 
loving  heart,  and  then  gave  him  a  form  of  prayer  suited  to 
his  case. 

In  the  female  evening  meeting,  his  sister.  Ma  Baik,  whose 
husband  also  lives  in  our  yard,  manifested  considerable  feel- 
ing, especially  when  Mrs.  Judson  prayed  with  her  alone, 
and  expressed  strong  desire  to  obtain  an  interest  in  the 
Saviour. 

June  27,  Lord's  day.  There  were  several  strangers  pres- 
ent at  worship.  After  the  usual  course,  I  called  Moung 
Nau  before  me,  read  and  commented  on  an  appropriate 
portion  of  Scripture,  asked  him  several  questions  concerning 
his  faith,  hope,  and  love,  and  made  the  baptismal  prayer,  hav- 
ing concluded  to  have  all  the  preparatory  exercises  done  in 
the  zayat.  We  then  proceeded  to  a  large  pond  in  tlie  vicinity, 
the  bank  of  which  is  graced  with  an  enormous  image  of 
Gaudama,  and  there  administered  baptism  to  the  first  Burman 
convert.  O,  may  it  prove  the  beginning  of  a  series  of 
baptisms  in  the  Burman  empire  which  shall  continue  in  un- 
interrupted succession  to  the  end  of  time ! 

July  4,  Lord's  day.  We  have  had  the  pleasure  of  sitting 
down,  for  the  first  time,  to  the  Lord's  table  witli  a  converted 
Burman  ;  and  it  was  my  privilege  —  a  privilege  to  which  I 
have  been  looking  forward  with  desire  for  many  years  —  to 
administer  the  Lord's  supper  in  two  languages.  And  now 
let  me,  in  haste,  close  my  journal  for  transmission  to  the 
board. 

Letter  from  Mrs.  Judson. 

Rangoon  Mission  House,  June  2,  1819. 
In  my  last,  I  mentioned  Mr.  Judson's  commencing  public 
preaching  in  a  building  which  we  had  erected  for  that  purpose, 
and  which  you  will  in  future  know  by  the  name  zayat.  Little 
did  I  think,  when  I  last  wrote,  that  I  should  so  soon  have  the 
joyful  intelligence  to  communicate,  that  one  Burman  has  em- 
braced the  Christian  religion,  and  given  good  evidence  of 
being  a  true  disciple  of  the  dear  Redeemer.     This  event,  this 


iiELiGious  vii:avs  of  the  first  convkut.        225 

single  trophy  of  victorious  grace,  has  filled  our  licarts  Avitli 
senf^ations  hardly  to  be  conceived  by  Christians  in  Christian 
countries.  This  event  has  convinced  us  that  God  can  and 
does  operate  on  the  minds  of  the  most  dark  and  ignorant,  and 
that  he  makes  his  own  truths,  his  own  word,  the  instrument  of 
operation.  It  serves  also  to  encourage  us  to  hope  that  the 
Lord  kas  other  chosen  ones  in  this  place.  As  Mr.  Judson  has 
given  some  account  of  the  first  impressions  of  this  man,  and 
as  I  have  had  him  particularly  under  my  instruction  since  his 
conversion,  I  will  give  you  some  of  his  remarks  in  his  own 
words,  with  which  you  will  be  much  interested.  "  Besides 
Jesus  Christ,  I  see  no  way  of  salvation.  lie  is  the  Son  of 
the  God  who  has  no  beginning,  no  end.  He  so  loved  and 
pitied  men  that  he  suffered  death  in  their  stead.  My  mind  is 
sore  on  account  of  the  sins  I  have  committed  during  the  whole 
of  my  life,  particularly  in  worshipping  a  false  god.  Our  re- 
ligion, pure  as  it  may  be,  does  not  purify  the  minds  of  those 
who  believe  it;  it  cannot  restrain  from  sin.  But  the  re- 
ligion of  Jesus  Christ  makes  the  mind  pure.  His  disciples 
desire  not  to  grieve  him  by  sinning.  In  our  religion  there  is 
no  way  to  escape  the  punishment  due  to  sin ;  but,  according 
to  the  religion  of  Christ,  he  himself  has  died  in  order  to  de- 
liver his  disciples.  I  wish  all  the  Burmans  would  become  his 
disciples  ;  then  we  should  meet  together  as  you  do  in  your 
country ;  then  we  should  all  be  happy  together  in  heaven. 
How  great  are  my  thanks  to  Jesus  Christ  for  sending  teachers 
to  this  country,  and  how  great  are  my  thanks  to  the  teachers 
for  coming!  Had  they  never  come  and  built  that  zayat,  I 
should  never  have  heard  of  Christ  and  the  true  God.  I 
mourn  that  so  much  of  my  life  passed  away  before  I  heard  of 
this  religion.  How  much  I  have  lost ! "  It  is  peculiarly  inter- 
esting to  see  with  what  eagerness  he  drinks  in  the  truths  from 
the  Scriptures.  A  few  days  ago,  I  was  reading  with  him  Christ's 
Sermon  on  the  Mount.  He  was  deeply  impressed  and  unu- 
sually solemn.  "  These  words,"  said  he,  "  take  hold  on  my 
very  liver ;  they  make  me  tremble.  Here  God  commands  us 
to  do  every  thing  that  is  good  in  secret,  not  to  be  seen  of 


226  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

men.  How  unlike  our  religion  is  this !  When  Burmans 
make  offerings  to  the  pagodas,  they  make  a  great  noise  with 
drums  and  musical  instruments,  that  others  may  see  how  good 
they  are.  But  this  religion  makes  the  mind  fear  God;  it 
makes  it,  of  its  own  accord,  fear  sin."  AVhen  I  read  this 
passage,  "  Lay  not  up  for  yourselves  treasures,"  &c.,  he  said, 
"  What  words  are  these  !  It  does  not  mean  that  we  shall 
take  the  silver  and  gold  from  this  world,  and  carry  them  to 
heaven  ;  but  that,  by  becoming  the  disciples  of  Jesus,  we  shall 
live  in  such  a  manner  as  to  enjoy  heaven  when  we  die."  We 
have  taken  him  into  our  employ  for  the  present,  as  a  copyist, 
though  our  primary  object  was  to  have  him  near  us,  that  we 
might  have  a  better  ojiportunity  of  knowing  more  of  him  be- 
fore he  received  baptism,  and  of  imparting  to  him  more  in- 
struction than  occasional  visits  might  afford.  Mornings  and 
evenings  he  spends  in  reading  the  Scj^iptures,  and  when  we 
all  meet  in  the  hall  for  family  worship,  he  comes  and  sits  with 
us ;  though  he  cannot  understand,  he  says  he  can  think  of 
God  in  his  heart. 

Mr.  Judson's  Journal  continued. 

Rangoon,  July  6, 1819.  First  day  of  Burman  Lent.  All  the 
members  of  government  went  to  the  great  pagoda,  and  took  the 
oath  of  allegiance  to  the  new  king.  At  night  a  large  company 
came  in,  all  disposed  to  condemn,  and  ridicule,  and  persecute, 
influenced  by  one  very  virulent  opposer,  who  has  been  here 
before.  When  the  storm  was  gathering,  Moung  Nau  with- 
drew. A  most  trying  time,  chiefly  rendered  so  by  its  being 
an  indication  of  the  spirit  which  generally  prevails  among  this 
people,  though  commonly  restrained  by  politeness,  and  which, 
we  fear,  may  issue  in  something  worse  and  more  to  be  dread- 
ed than  our  own  personal  inconvenience  and  persecution. 

Heard,  at  the  same  time,  that  several  of  the  people  who 
live  about  us,  and  commonly  attend  worship,  had  privately 
gone  to  the  pagoda  and  made  an  offering.  All  these  circum- 
stances conspire  to  make  us  feel  desolate,  and  to  put  our  trust 
in  God  alone. 


REVISION    OF    THE    FIRST    TRACT.  227 

July  10.  Some  pleasant  conversation  -with  Moung  Thali- 
lali.  Seldom  a  day  passes  in  which  he  does  not  spend  an 
hour  or  two  with  me  or  Moung  Nau.  This  man  is  rather  su- 
perior to  the  common  Burmans  in  point  of  abilities,  and, 
lliough  not  very  learned,  he  has  read  much  more  than  the 
generality.  He  is  much  superior  to  any  one  resident  on  our 
premises,  and,  if  converted,  Avould  be  a  valuable  acquisition  to 
the  mission. 

July  12.  Considerable  company  all  day.  Moung  E,  Avhose 
name  I  have  not  yet  mentioned,  though  he  has  made  several 
visits,  broke  through  his  usual  reserve,  and  acknowledged  his 
love  for  this  religion,  and  thought  he  should  become  a  disciple, 
and  not  return  to  Tavoy,  whence  he  lately  came  on  some  gov- 
ernment business.  Moung  Thahlah  appears  to  be  really 
earnest  in  his  desires  to  become  a  disciple  of  Christ.  His 
sister.  Ma  Baik,  who  was  lately  drawn  into  a  high  quarrel 
with  a  neighbor,  expresses  much  sorrow,  and  says  that  the  cir- 
cumstance has  convinced  her  more  than  ever  of  the  evil  of  her 
heart,  and  the  necessity  of  getting  a  new  nature  before  she 
can  be  a  disciple. 

Much  encouraged  by  the  events  of  the  day.  The  Lord  can 
bless  the  feeblest  means,  the  most  unworthy  instruments. 
Praised  be  his  name. 

July  13.  The  sixth  anniversary  of  the  commencement  of 
the  mission. 

July  18,  Lord's  day.  Discoursed  on  Matt.  vii.  13,  concern- 
ing the  broad  way  to  destruction  and  the  narrow  way  to  life  ; 
the  hearers  considerably  attentive.  To-day  our  viceroy  has 
returned  to  Rangoon,  being  forbidden  to  proceed  to  Ava  be- 
fore taking  the  oath  of  allegiance  to  the  new  king. 

July  19.  Had  some  particular  conversation  with  Moung 
Thahlah  on  his  spiritual  state.  He  says  that  the  more  he 
reads  and  hears  of  the  Christian  religion,  the  more  inclined 
he  becomes  to  believe  and  embrace  it,  but  fears  that  his  weak- 
ness and  sinfulness  incapacitate  him  for  keeping  his  holy  pre- 
cepts as  it  becomes  a  professing  disciple. 

July  29.      Finished  revising  the  tract  "for  a  new  edition. 


228  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

Have  considerably  enlarged  it,  particularly  by  adding  several 
prayers;  so  that  it  now  stands,  "A  View  of  the  Christian  Re- 
ligion, in  four  Parts,  Historical,  Practical,  Preceptive,  and  De- 
votional." We  intend  sending  the  manuscript  to  Serampore, 
with  a  request  to  brother  Hough  that  he  will  get  it  printed  in 
a  large  edition  of  five  thousand  copies.  The  first  edition,  of 
one  thousand,  is  nearly  exhausted.  Such,  indeed,  is  the  de- 
mand for  it  since  the  opening  of  the  zayat,  that  we  should 
have  given  away  all  the  copies  long  ago,  had  we  not  been 
doubtful  about  a  fresh  supply. 

July  30.  Had  several  attentive  visitors  ;  one  of  them  staid 
two  hours,  and  appeared  very  unwilling  to  leave.  His  mild 
manners  and  apparent  openness  of  heart  tended  to  heighten 
my  desires  and  stimulate  my  prayers  for  the  salvation  of  his 
precious  soul. 

August  1,  Lord's  day.  Several  respectable  and  wealthy 
people  present  at  worship.  One  of  them  visited  me  several 
months  ago,  and  received  a  tract.  Since  then  he  has  thought 
much,  and  has  conversed  with  some  of  his  friends  about  the 
new  religion.  Yesterday  he  sent  word  that  he  was  coming  up 
to  worship,  with  several  others.  He  was  rather  reserved  to- 
day, and  said  but  little,  yet  sufficient  to  show  that  he  has  im- 
bibed some  new  notions,  which,  whether  they  issue  in  conver- 
sion or  not,  will,  I  trust,  prevent  his  ever  settling  doAvn  in  his 
old  system.     His  name  is  Oo  Yah. 

August  2.  The  family  of  the  old  gentleman  of  yesterday 
came  to  see  Mrs.  Judson,  saying  that  their  father  had  sent 
them  to  listen  to  the  instructions  of  the  female  teacher.  They 
appear  to  be  one  of  the  most  civilized  families  we  have  met 
with,  behaved  with  much  politeness  and  respect,  and  begged 
leave  to  come  again. 

August  3.  Several  neighbors  of  Oo  Yah  spent  some  time 
at  the  zayat,  and  listened  attentively. 

August  7.  Brother  Wheelock  embarked  for  Bengal,  but  in 
60  low  a  state  that  w^e  fear  the  voyage,  instead  of  being  ben- 
eficial, will  tend  to  shorten  his  life. 

August  8,  Lord's  day.  Several  strangers  present  at  wor- 
ship ;  a  larger  assembly  than  usual. 


SECOND  BURMESE  CONVERT.  229 

August  19.  Had  more  company  than  for  a  fortnight  past. 
Very  little  intermission  through  the  day.  Just  at  night,  three 
strangers  came  in,  and  listened  with  remarkable  attention. 
They  appeared  to  be  particularly  impressed  with  the  value  of 
a  happy  immortality,  as  far  superior  to  any  thing  which  the 
Burman  system  can  offer,  and  also  wuth  the  love  of  Christ,  as 
far  surpassing  all  other  love. 

August  20.  Several  Mahometans  came  in,  having  heard, 
as  they  said,  that  I  denounced  all  religions  but  the  Christian. 
We  had  a  long  debate  on  the  divine  Sonship  of  Jesus  Christ. 
At  first  it  was  very  oifensive  to  them  ;  but  when  the  doctrine 
of  the  Trinity  was  explained  to  them,  they  had  no  other  objec- 
tion to  make  than  that  tlie  Koran  denied  that  God  had  a  Son. 
They  appeared  to  be  somewhat  desirous  of  knowing  what  is 
truth  ;  said  they  should  come  again,  and  must  either  convert 
me  to  Mahometanism  or  themselves  become  converted  to 
Christianity.  I  discovered  afterwards  that  one  of  them  was 
a  priest ;  but  he  kept  in  the  background,  and  said  nothing. 

August  21.  Have  not  lately  mentioned  Moung  Thahlah, 
though  he  has  continued  to  visit  me  regularly.  To-day  I  had 
a  conversation  with  him,  that  almost  settled  my  mind  that  he 
is  really  a  renewed  man.  He,  however,  thinks  he  is  not,  be- 
cause he  finds  his  heart  so  depraved  that  he  cannot  perfectly 
keep  the  pure  commands  of  Christ. 

August  22,  Lord's  day.  Two  of  the  adherents  of  the  Man- 
gen  teacher,  the  popular  preacher  that  I  mentioned  some  time 
ago,  were  present  at  worship.  I  had  much  conversation  with 
them,  in  the  course  of  which  I  so  clearly  refuted  their  system, 
in  two  or  three  instances,  that  they  could  not  refrain  from  an 
involuntary  expression  of  assent  and  approbation.  They  di- 
rectly said,  however,  that  it  was  impossible  for  them  to  think 
of  embracing  a  new  religion.  I  never  saw  more  clearly  the 
truth  of  our  Saviour's  words,  "  Ye  will  not  come  unto  me." 

After    worship,    had    another     conversation    with    Moung 

Thahlah.     He  hopes  that  he  is  a  disciple  of  Jesus  Christ  in 

heart,  but  wants   to  know  whether  a  profession  of  religion  is 

indispensable    to    salvation.     IJe    fears   the    persecution  that 

VOL.    I.  20 


230  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

may  hereafter  come  on  those  who  forsake  the  estabhshed 
religion  of  the  empire.  I  gave  him  such  explanation  as  I 
thought  suitable,  and  left  him  with  the  solemn  consideration, 
that  unless  he  loved  Christ  above  his  own  life,  he  did  not  love 
him  sincerely,  and  ought  not  to  hope  that  he  is  interested  in 
his  redemption. 

His  sister,  Ma  Baik,  is  in  a  very  similar  state.  She  has 
been  particularly  attentive  and  solemn  in  her  appearance  for 
some  time  past.  In  such  cases  it  is  a  great  consolation  to 
reflect  that  the  tender,  compassionate  Saviour  will  not  break 
the  bruised  reed,  or  quench  the  smoking  taper.  He  will 
strengthen  and  restore  the  one,  and  the  other  he  will  light 
up  with  his  own  celestial  fire. 

August  24.  Another  conversation  with  Moung  Tliahlah, 
which  at  length  forces  me  to  admit  the  conviction  that  he  is  a 
real  convert ;  and  I  venture  to  set  him  down  the  second 
disciple  of  Christ  among  the  Burmans.  He  appears  to  have 
all  the  characteristics  of  a  new-born  soul,  and  though  rather 
timid  in  regard  to  an  open  profession,  has,  I  feel  satisfied,  that 
love  to  Christ  which  will  increase  and  bring  him  forward  in 
due  time. 

August  26th.  Was  visited  by  Moung  Shwa-gnong,  a 
teacher  of  considerable  distinction.  He  appears  to  be  half 
deist  and  half  sceptic,  the  first  of  the  sort  I  have  met  with 
among  the  Burmans.  He,  however,  worships  at  the  pagodas, 
and  conforms  to  all  the  prevailing  customs.  We  had  a  very 
interesting  debate,  in  which  we  cleared  up  some  preliminaries, 
preparatory,  I  hope,  to  future  discussions. 

Just  at  night,  the  viceroy,  returning  from  an  excursion  of 
pleasure,  passed  by  our  road,  for  the  first  time  since  the 
zayat  was  built.  He  was  seated  on  a  huge  elephant,  attended 
by  his  guards  and  numerous  suite,  and,  as  he  passed,  eyed  us 
very  narrowly.  Several  Burmans  were  sitting  round  me  and 
Mrs.  Judson. 

After  he  had  passed  some  time,  two  of  his  private  secretaries 
came  in  with  a  viceregal  order,  signifying  his  highness's  desire 
to  see  the  manner  in  which  printing  is  executed.     I  replied, 


LABUKS    IN    THE    ZAYAT.  231 

that  the  teacher  who  understood  prmting  had  gone  to  Bengal, 
taking  the  types  with  him,  and  that  it  was  impossible  to  com- 
ply with  the  order.    They  departed  with  evident  dissatisfaction. 

August  27.  In  order  to  obviate  the  bad  effects  of  the 
report  of  the  officers  of  yesterday,  I  went  to  the  government 
house,  intending  to  have  a  personal  interview  with  the  viceroy. 
After  waiting  two  hours  in  the  levee  hall,  he  made  his  appear- 
ance, and  on  recognizing  me,  immediately  inquired  about  the 
press  and  types.  I  told  him  my  story,  and  when  he  under- 
stood that  I  was  ignorant  of  the  art  of  printing,  he  appeared 
satisfied  to  let  the  matter  rest.  In  the  course  of  the  few 
words  which  passed  between  us,  he  said  that  he  wished  to  get 
several  Burrnan  books  printed.  He  seemed  to  be  more  kindly 
disposed  towards  me  than  formerly ;  but  it  seems  impossible 
to  introduce  the  subject  of  religion  in  his  presence,  surrounded, 
as  he  always  is,  with  a  crowd  of  courtiers  and  secretaries, 
petitioners  and  lawyers. 

Had  but  just  returned  home,  when  the  teacher  Moung 
Shwa-gnong  came  again,  and  staid  from  noon  till  quite  dark. 
We  conversed  incessantly  the  whole  time ;  but  I  fear  that  no 
real  impression  is  made  on  his  proud,  sceptical  heart.  He, 
however,  promised  to  pray  to  the  eternal  God,  through  Jesus 
Christ,  and  appeared,  at  times,  to  be  in  deep  thought.  He  is 
a  man  of  very  superior  argumentative  powers.  His  conver- 
sion would  probably  shake  the  f^iith  of  many. 

August  28.  A  great  deal  of  company  all  day  long. 
Quite  worn  out  with  incessant  toil.  At  night,  the  viceroy 
again  passed,  as  the  day  before  yesterday;  and  the  same 
secretaries  came  in,  saying,  that  it  was  the  viceroy's  desire 
that  I  should  translate  and  get  printed,  if  possible,  some 
historical  writings  of  my  country.  I  told  them  I  would  take 
the  first  opportunity  of  calling  on  his  highness. 

August  31.  A  man,  by  name  Moung  Ing,  has  visited  the 
zayat  five  or  six  days  in  succession.  At  first,  a  variety  of 
other  company  prevented  my  attending  much  to  him,  and  he 
conversed  chiefly  with  Moung  Nau,  and  employed  himself 
in   reading   Matthew.      He  once  told  Moung  Nau  that  he 


232  MEMOIR    OF    DK.    JUDSON. 

]iad  long  been  looking  after  the  ti'ue  religion,  and  was  ready 
to  wish  that  he  had  been  born  a  brute,  rather  than  to  die  in 
delusion,  and  go  to  hell.  Sunday  I  conversed  with  him 
largely,  and  his  attention,  during  worship,  was  very  close  and 
solemn.  To-day  he  has  made  me  half  inclined  to  believe 
that  a  work  of  grace  is  begun  in  his  soul.  He  says  that  he 
formerly  had  some  idea  of  an  eternal  God  from  his  mother, 
who  was  christened  a  Roman  Catholic,  in  consequence  of  her 
connection  with  a  foreigner ;  but  that  the  idea  was  never 
rooted  in  his  mind  until  he  fell  in  with  the  zayat.  Within  a 
few  days,  he  has  begun  to  pray  to  this  God.  He  is  quite 
sensible  of  his  sins,  and  of  the  utter  inefficacy  of  the  Boodhist 
religion,  but  is  yet  in  the  dark  concerning  the  way  of  salva- 
tion, and  says  that  he  wants  to  know  more  of  Christ,  that  he 
may  love  him  more.  Lord  Jesus,  give  him  the  saving  knowl- 
edge of  thine  adorable  self ! 

September  1.  MoungThahlah  continues  to  express  similar 
sentiments  to  those  already  noted  ;  is  still  afraid  of  persecu- 
tion and  death,  but  professes  to  be  laboring  to  obtain  that  love 
to  Christ,  and  faith  in  him,  Avhich  will  raise  him  above  the  fear 
of  man  ;  and  particularly  requests  as  to  pray  that  he  may 
obtain  these  graces. 

September  3.  A  great  crowd  of  company  through  the 
whole  day,  the  teacher  Moung  Shaw-gnong,  from  ten  o'clock 
till  quite  dark,  with  several  of  his  adherents.  He  is  a  com- 
plete Proteus  in  religion,  and  I  never  know  where  to  fmd 
him.  We  went  over  a  vast  deal  of  ground,  and  ended  where 
we  began,  in  apparent  incredulity.  After  his  adherents,  how- 
ever, were  all  gone,  he  conversed  with  some  feeling;  owned 
that  he  knew  nothing,  and  wished  me  to  instruct  him  ;  and  when 
he  departed,  he  prostrated  himself,  and  performed  the  sheeko  — 
an  act  of  homage  which  a  Burman  never  performs  but  to  an 
acknowledged  superior. 

After  he  was  gone,  Moung  Ing,  who  has  been  listening  all 
day,  followed  me  home  to  the  house,  being  invited  to  stay  with 
Moung  Nau  through  the  night.  We  conversed  all  the  even- 
ing, and  his  expressions  have  satisfied  us  all  that  he  is  one  of 


PERSONAL    CONVERSATIONS.  233 

God's  chosen  people.  His  exercises  have  been  of  a  much 
stronger  character  tlian  those  of  the  others,  and  he  expresses 
himself  in  the  most  decided  manner.  He  desires  to  become  a 
disciple  in  profession,  as  well  as  to  be  in  Christ,  and  declares 
his  readiness  to  suffer  persecution  and  death  for  the  love  of 
Christ.  When  I  stated  the  danger  to  which  he  was  exposing 
himself,  and  asked  him  whether  he  loved  Christ  better  than  his 
own  life,  he  replied,  very  deliberately  and  solemnly,  "  When  I 
meditate  on  this  religion,  I  know  not  what  it  is  to  love  my  own 
life."  Thus  the  poor  fisherman  Moung  Ing  is  taken,  while 
the  learned  teacher  Moung  Shwa-gnong  is  left. 

September  o,  Lord's  day.  A  very  dull  day  —  not  one 
stranger  present  at  worship.  In  the  evening  Moung  Thahlah 
was  a  spectator  of  our  partaking  of  the  Lord's  supper. 
Moung  Ing  could  not  be  present.  He  lives  at  some  distance, 
and  is  getting  ready  to  go  to  sea,  pursuant  to  his  purpose  be- 
fore he  became  acquainted  with  us.  We  have  endeavored  to 
dissuade  him  from  going,  and  to  keep  him  near  us  ;  but  we 
are  afraid  that  his  circumstances  will  not  allow  him  to  comply 
with  our  advice  and  his  own  inclinations. 

September  6.  Spent  the  evening  in  conversing  with  Moung 
Byaa,  a  man  who,  with  his  family,  has  lived  near  us  for  some 
time,  a  regular  attendant  on  worship,  an  indefatigable  scholar 
in  the  evening  school,  where  he  has  learned  to  read,  though 
fifty  years  old,  and  a  remarkably  moral  character.  In  my 
last  conversation,  some  time  ago,  he  appeared  to  be  a  thor- 
ough legalist,  relying  solely  on  his  good  works,  but  yet 
sincerely  desirous  of  knowing  and  embracing  the  truth.  The 
greater  part  of  the  evening  was  spent  in  discussing  his  erro- 
neous views ;  his  mind  seemed  so  dark  and  dull  of  appre- 
hension, that  I  was  almost  discouraged.  Towards  the  close, 
however,  he  seemed  to  obtain  some  evangelical  discoveries, 
and  to  receive  the  humbling  truths  of  the  gospel  in  a  manner 
which  encourages  us  to  hope  that  the  Spirit,  of  God  has 
begun  to  teach  him.  The  occasion  of  this  conversation  was 
my  hearing  that  he  said  that  he  intended  to  become  a  Chris- 
tian, and  be  baptized  with  Moung  Thahlah.  He  accordingly  pro- 
'20* 


234  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUD50N. 

fesses  a  full  belief  in  the  eternal  God,  and  his  Son  Jesas 
Christ. 

September  7.  Am  grieved  that  Moung  Ing  comes  no  more. 
Presume  he  has  gone  off,  contrary  to  our  advice,  and  was 
reluctant  to  take  leave  of  us  under  such  circumstances. 

September  10.  Surprised  by  a  visit  from  Moung  Ing.  It 
appears  that  he  has  been  confined  at  work  on  board  the  ves- 
sel in  which  he  is  engaged,  and  has  not  been  ashore  for  several 
days.  As  the  vessel  is  certainly  going  to-morrow,  he  got 
leave  of  absence  for  a  short  time,  and  improved  it  in  running 
out  to  the  zayat.  I  was  exceedingly  glad,  as  it  afforded  me 
an  opportunity  of  giving  him  some  parting  instructions,  and 
praying  with  him  alone.  He  appears  very  well  indeed.  He 
is  quite  distressed  that  he  has  so  far  engaged  himself,  and 
appears  desirous  of  getting  off,  and  returning  to  us,  if  possible ; 
but  I  have  very  little  hope  of  his  succeeding.  I  believe,  how- 
ever, that  he  is  a  real  Christian,  and  that,  whenever  he  dies, 
his  immortal  soul  will  be  safe,  and  that  he  will  praise  God 
forever  for  his  transient  acquaintance  with  us.  The  Lord  go 
with  him  and  keep  him. 

September  11.  Moung  Shwa-gnong  has  been  with  me  all 
day.  It  appears  that  he  accidentally  obtained  the  idea  of  an 
eternal  Being  about  eight  years  ago  ;  and  it  has  been  fioat- 
ing  about  in  his  mind,  and  disturbing  his  Boodhistic  ideas  ever 
since.  When  he  heard  of  us,  which  was  through  one  of  his 
adherents,  to  whom  I  had  given  a  tract,  this  idea  received  con- 
siderable confirmation  ;  and  to-day  he  has  fully  admitted  the 
truth  of  this  first  grand  principle.  The  latter  part  of  the  day 
we  were  chiefly  employed  in  discussing  the  possibility  and 
necessity  of  a  divine  revelation,  and  the  evidence  which  proves 
that  the  writings  of  the  apostles  of  Jesus  contain  that  reve- 
lation ;  and  I  think  I  may  say  that  he  is  half  inclined  to  admit 
all  this.  He  is  certainly  a  most  interesting  case.  The  way 
seems  to  be  prepared  in  his  mind  for  the  special  operation  of 
divine  grace.     Come,  Holy  Spirit,  heavenly  Dove  ! 

His  conversion  seems  peculiarly  desirable,  on  account  of  his 
superior  talents  and  extensive  acquaintance  with  Burmese  and 
Pali  literal  Lilt.',      lie  is  the  most  powerful  reasoner  I  have  yet 


AVORSillP    IN    THK    ZAYAT,  235 

met  with  in  tliis  country,  excepting  my  old  teacher,  Oo  Oung- 
men,  (now  dead,)  and  he  is  not  at  all  inferior  to  him. 

September  15.  Moung  Thahlah  spent  the  evening  with  me 
in  asking  several  questions  on  difficult  passages  in  Matthew. 
At  the  close  I  asked  him  whether  he  yet  loved  Christ  more  than 
his  own  life  ;  he  understood  my  meaning,  and  replied  that  he 
purposed  to  profess  the  Christian  religion,  and  began  to  think 
seriously  of  being  baptized.  His  sister,  Ma  Baik,  appears  to 
have  lost  her  religious  impressions. 

September  16.  After  having  lately  made  two  unsuccessful 
attempts  to  get  an  interview  with  the  viceroy,  I  this  day  suc- 
ceeded. He  inquired  about  the  historical  writings.  I  told  him 
I  was  not  so  well  acquainted  with  that  style  of  writing  in  Bur- 
man  as  with  the  religious  style,  and  then  presented  him  with  a 
tract,  as  a  specimen  of  what  I  could  do.  He  delivered  it  to  a 
secretary,  and  on  hearing  the  first  sentence,  remarked  that  it 
was  the  same  with  a  writing  he  had  already  heard,  and  that 
he  did  not  want  that  kind  of  writing.  I  suppose  that  one  of 
the  secretaries,  to  wdiom  I  had  formerly  given  a  tract,  present- 
ed it  without  my  knowledge. 

September  18.  Moung  Shwa-gnong  has  been  with  me  a 
few  hours  ;  had  spent  the  greater  part  of  the  day  w  ith  Oo 
Yah,  the  merchant  that  I  mentioned  some  time  ago,  convers- 
ing on  religion.  Our  interview  chiefly  passed  in  discussing 
his  metaphysical  cavils. 

September  19,  Lord's  day.  The  teacher  and  Oo  Yah  came 
to  worship,  according  to  their  agreement  of  yesterday,  accom- 
panied with  part  of  the  family  of  the  latter,  and  several  re- 
spectable men  of  their  acquaintance,  so  that  the  assembly  con- 
sisted of  about  fifty.  Some  paid  profound  attention,  and  some 
none  at  all.  After  the  exercises,  Oo  Yah  seemed  afraid  to 
have  it  appear  that  he  had  any  acquaintance  with  me,  and 
kept  at  a  distance.  They  finally  all  dropped  away  but  the 
teacher,  who  staid,  as  usual,  till  quite  dark.  He  is,  in  many 
respects,  a  perfect  enigma ;  but  just  before  he  left,  a  slight 
hope  began  to  spring  up  in  our  minds  that  his  proud  heart 
was    yielding    to    the    cross.       He    confessed  that    he    was 


236  MKMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

constrained  to  give  up  all  dependence  on  his  own  merits  and  his 
literary  attainments  ;  that  he  had  sinned  against  God  all  his 
life  long,  and  that,  therefore,  he  deserved  to  suffer  hell.  And 
then  he  asked,  with  some  feeling,  how  he  could  obtain  an  in- 
terest in  the  merits  and  salvation  of  Jesus  Christ.  He  ap- 
pears to  have  a  considerable  share  of  that  serious  solemnity 
which  I  have  observed  to  characterize  the  few  who  persevere 
in  their  rehgious  inquiries,  and  which  has  been  w^  an  ting  in  ev- 
ery instance  of  mere  temporary  promise.  O  that  he  may  be 
brought  in,  if  it  is  not  too  great  a  favor  for  this  infant  mission 
to  receive. 

September  20.  One  of  the  three  visitors  of  the  19th  of 
August  came  again,  and,  though  a  long  interval  has  elapsed, 
his  appearance  is  quite  encouraging.  He  says,  feelingly,  that 
he  knows  nothing,  is  distressed  at  the  thought  of  dying  in  his 
present  ignorance  and  uncertainty,  and  wants  to  find  some 
kind  of  salvation. 

September  26,  Lord's  day.  Moung  Shwa-gnong  came, 
with  several  adherents.  Some  warm  conversation  before  wor- 
ship, but  nothing  personal.  During  worship,  discoursed  from, 
"  Fear  not  them  that  kill  the  body,"  &c.  My  discourse  was 
chiefly  intended  for  Moung  Thahlah  and  Moung  Byaa ;  but  the 
latter  was  absent,  on  account  of  sickness.  After  worship,  the 
teacher  immediately  departed  with  his  people,  without  even 
saying  a  word.     Fear  he  has  taken  some  offence. 

October  5.  Received  a  visit  from  the  teacher.  My  hopes 
of  his  conversion  are  very  low.  He  is  settling  down  in  Deism, 
and  evidently  avoids  all  conversation  of  a  personal  nature. 

October  6.  Conversation  with  Moung  Thahlah  and  Moung 
Byaa,  which  revives  my  hopes  of  their  coming  forward  before 
long.  They  are  botli  growing  in  religious  knowledge,  and 
give  evidence  of  being  in  the  exercise  of  gracious  feelings. 

October  7.  Was  rejoiced,  in  the  morning,  to  see  the  teach- 
er Moung  Shwa-gnong  come  again  so  soon.  We  spent  the 
whole  day  together,  uninterrupted  by  other  company.  In  the 
forenoon,  he  was  as  crabbed  as  possible ;  sometimes  a  Berke- 
leian,  sometimes  a  Humeite  or  complete  sceptic.     But  in  the 


REQUESTS    FOR    BAl'TISM.  237 

af'ternoim  lie  got  to  be  more  reasonable,  and  before  he  left  he 
obtained  a  more  complete  idea  of  the  atonement  than  I  have 
commonly  been  able  to  communicate  to  a  Burman.  He  ex- 
claimed, "  That  is  suitable  ;  that  is  as  it  should  be,"  &c.  But 
whether  this  conviction  resulted  from  a  mere  philosophic  view 
of  the  propriety  and  adaptednoss  of  the  way  of  salvation 
through  Jesus  Christ,  or  from  the  gracious  operations  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  time  must  discover.  I  hardly  venture  to  hope 
the  latter.    O  Lord,  the  work  is  thine  !     O  come,  Holy  Spirit ! 

October  23.  Have  for  some  days  been  wondenng  at  the 
long  absence  of  the  teacher.  To-day  heard  a  report  that  he 
has  been  summoned  by  the  viceroy  to  give  an  account  of  his 
heretical  sentiments. 

At  night  Moung  Thahlali  and  Moung  Byaa  presented  a 
paper,  professing  their  faith  in  Jesus  Christ,  and  requesting  to 
be  baptized,  but  in  private.  We  spent  some  time  with  them. 
They  appear  to  have  experienced  divine  grace  ;  but  we  advised 
them,  as  they  had  so  little  love  to  Christ  as  not  to  dare  to  die 
for  his  cause,  to  wait  and  reconsider  the  matter. 

October  29.  The  teacher  came  again,  after  an  interval  of 
three  weeks  ;  but  he  appears  to  be  quite  another  man.  He 
has  not  been  personally  summoned,  as  we  heard ;  but,  through 
the  instigation  of  the  Mangen  teacher,  he  was  mentioned  be- 
fore the  viceroy  as  having  renounced  the  religion  of  the  coun- 
try. The  viceroy  gave  no  decisive  order,  but  merely  said, 
"Inquire  further  about  him."  This  reached  the  ears  of 
Moung  Shwa-gnong ;  and  he  directly  went  to  the  Mangen 
teacher,  and,  I  suppose,  apologized,  and  explained,  and  flat- 
tered. He  denies  that  he  really  recanted,  and  I  hope  he  did 
not ;  but  he  is  evidently  faUing  off  from  the  investigation  of 
the  Christian  religion.  He  made  but  a  short  visit,  and  took 
leave  as  soon  as  he  could  decently. 

November  1.  One  of  the  greatest  festivals  in  the  year. 
The  crowds  are  truly  immense  and  overwhelming.  We  va- 
cated the  zayat,  as  we  have  several  days  of  late,  beginning  to 
query  whether  it  is  prudent  to  go  on  boldly  in  proclaiming  a 
new  religion,  at  the  hazard  of  incensing  the  government,  and 


238  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

dniwing  down  such  persecution  as  may  deter  all  who  know  us 
from  any  inquiry. 

November  2.  This  is  the  birtiiday  and  the  coronation  day 
of  the  new  king.  All  the  grandees  of  the  empire  have,  for 
some  time  past,  been  assembling  at  Ava,  to  be  present  at  the 
august  celebration. 

November  6.  The  two  candidates  for  baptism  again  pre- 
sented their  urgent  petition  that  they  might  be  baptized,  not 
absolutely  in  private,  but  about  sunset,  away  from  public 
observation.  We  spent  some  hours  in  again  discussing  the 
subject  with  them  and  with  one  another.  We  felt  satisfied 
that  they  were  humble  disciples  of  Jesus,  and  were  desirous 
of  receiving  this  ordinance  purely  out  of  regard  to  his  com- 
mand and  their  own  spiritual  welfare  ;  we  felt  that  we  were 
all  equally  exposed  to  danger,  and  needed  a  spirit  of  mutual 
candor,  and  forbearance,  and  sympathy  ;  we  were  convinced 
that  they  were  influenced  rather  by  desires  of  avoiding  un- 
necessary exposure  than  by  that  sinful  fear  which  would 
plunge  them  into  apostasy  in  the  hour  of  trial ;  and  when 
they  assured  us  that,  if  actually  brought  before  government, 
they  could  not  think  of  denying  their  Saviour,  we  could  not 
conscientiously  refuse  their  request,  and  therefore  agreed  to 
have  them  baptized  to-morrow  at  sunset.  The  following  is  a 
literal  translation  of  the  paper  presented  this  evening :  — 

"  Moung  Byaa  and  Moung  Thahlah  venture  to  address  the 
two  teachers  :  Though  the  country  of  Burmah  is  very  far 
distant  from  the  country  of  America,  yet  the  teachers,  coming 
by  ship  the  long  way  of  six  months,  have  arrived  at  this  far 
distant  country  of  Burmah,  and  town  of  Rangoon,  and  pro- 
claimed the  propitious  news  by  means  of  which  we,  having 
become  acquainted  with  the  religion,  know  that  there  is  an 
eternal  God  in  heaven,  and  that  there  is  a  divine  Son,  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  deserving  of  the  highest  love  ;  and  we 
know  that  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  divine  Son,  endured,  on 
account  of  all  his  disciples,  sufferings  and  death,  even  severe 
sufferings  on  a  cross,  in  their  stead.  On  account  of  our  sins, 
we  were  like  persons  laden  with  a  very  heavy  burden.     On 


BAPTISM    ADMINISTKUED.  239 

account  of  our  many  sins,  we  found  no  deliverance,  no  place 
of  refujre,  and  our  minds  were  distressed.  In  this  state  re- 
maining,  the  two  teachers  produced  the  sacred  system  from 
the  Scriptures,  and  we  became  informed  of  the  existence  of 
the  one  God,  and  of  the  facts  that  the  divine  vSon,  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  redeemed  with  his  sacred  life  all  who  love  and 
trust  in  him,  and,  in  order  to  save  his  disciples  from  hell,  suf- 
fered death  in  their  stead.  Now  we  know  that  we  have 
sinned  against  the  sacred  One,  and  we  know,  assuredly,  that 
if  we  become  disciples  of  the  divine  Son,  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  we  shall  be  saved  from  the  hell  Avhich  we  deserve. 
We  desire  to  become  disciples,  and  with  the  two  teachers, 
like  children  born  of  the  same  mother,  to  worship  the  true 
God,  and  observe  the  true  religion. 

"  On  searching  in  the  Scriptures  for  ancient  rules  and  customs, 
it  does  not  appear  that  John  and  other  baptizers  administered 
baptism  on  any  particular  time,  or  day,  or  hour.  We,  there- 
fore, venture  to  beg  of  the  two  teachers,  that  they  will  grant 
that  on  the  6th  day  of  the  wane  of  the  Tanzoungmong  moon, 
(November  7,)  at  six  o'clock  at  night,  we  may  this  once  re- 
ceive baptism  at  their  hands." 

November  7,  Lord's  day.  We  had  worship  as  usual,  and 
the  people  dispersed.  About  half  an  hour  before  sunset,  the 
two  candidates  came  to  the  zayat,  accompanied  by  three  or 
four  of  their  friends  ;  and  after  a  short  prayer,  we  proceeded 
to  the  spot  where  Moung  Nau  was  formerly  baptized.  The 
sun  was  not  allowed  to  look  upon  the  humble,  timid  profession. 
No  wondering  crowd  crowned  the  overshadowing  hill.  No 
jiymn  of  praise  expressed  the  exultant  feelings  of  joyous 
hearts.  Stillness  and  solemnity  pervaded  the  scene.  We 
felt,  on  the  banks  of  the  water,  as  a  little,  feeble,  solitary  band. 
But  perhaps  some  hovering  angels  took  note  of  the  event 
with  more  interest  than  they  witnessed  the  late  coronation ; 
perhaps  Jesus  looked  down  on  us,  pitied  and  forgave  our  weak- 
nesses, and  marked  us  for  his  own ;  perhaps,  if  we  deny  him 
not,  he  will  acknowledge  us,  anotlier  day,  more  publicly  than 
we  venture  at  present  to  acknowledge  him. 


240  :\iEMOiii  OF  ]>n.  judsox. 

In  the  evening  we  all  united  in  commemorating  the  dying 
love  of  our  Redeemer  ;  and  I  trust  we  enjoyed  a  little  of  his 
gracious  presence  in  the  midst  of  us. 

November  10.  This  evening  is  to  be  marked  as  the  date  of 
the  first  Burman  prayer  meeting  that  was  ever  held.  None 
present  but  myself  and  the  three  converts.  Two  of  them 
made  a  little  beginning  —  such  as  must  be  expected  from  the 
first  essay  of  converted  heathens.  We  agreed  to  meet  for 
this  purpose  every  Tuesday  and  Friday  evening,  im'mediately 
after  family  worship,  which  in  the  evening  has  for  some  time 
been  conducted  in  Burman  and  English,  and  which  these  peo- 
ple, and  occasionally  some  others,  have  attended. 

November  14,  Lord's  day.  Have  been  much  gratified 
to  find  that  this  evening  the  three  converts  repaired  to 

THE  ZAYAT,  AND  HELD  A  PRAYER  MEETING  OF  THEIR  OWN 
ACCORD. 

November  26.  On  taking  our  usual  ride  this  morning,  to 
bathe  in  the  mineral  tank,  we  were  accosted,  on  one  of  the 
pagoda  roads,  by  the  Mangen  teacher,  and  peremptorily  for- 
bidden to  ride  there  in  future  on  pain  of  being  beaten.  On 
our  return  we  inquired  into  the  affair,  and  find  that  the  vice- 
roy has  really  issued  an  order,  at  the  instigation  of  this  teach- 
er, that  henceforth  no  person  wearing  a  hat,  shoes,  or  umbrella, 
or  mounted  on  a  horse,  shall  approach  within  the  sacred 
ground  belonging  to  the  great  pagoda,  which  ground  extends 
on  some  sides  half  a  mile,  and  comprises  all  the  prin(;ipal 
roads  ;  so  that  in  future  we  must  take  a  circuitous  route  in  the 
woods,  if  we  wish  to  visit  our  usual  place  of  resort.  This  con- 
sideration, however,  is  very  trifling,  compared  with  another. 
Tile  viceroy's  order  is  quite  unprecedented  in  Rangoon,  and 
indicates  a  state  of  feeling  on  the  subject  of  religion  very  un- 
favorable to  our  missionary  designs.  Since  the  death  of  the 
old  king,  who  was  known  to  be  in  heart  hostile  to  religion, 
people  have  been  more  engaged  than  ever  in  building  pagodas, 
making  sacred  offerings,  and  performing  the  public  duties  of 
their  religion.  They  are  just  now  engaged  in  new  gilding  the 
great  pagoda,  called   Shwaa  Dagon,  which   is  considered  the 


DECISION    TO    VISIT    AVA.  241 

most  sacred  in  the  country,  on  account  of  its  containing  six  or 
eight  hairs  of  Gaudama. 

Ever  since  the  affair  of  Moung  Shwa-gnong,  there  has  been 
an  entire  falling  off  at  the  zayat.  I  sometimes  sit  there  whole 
days  without  a  single  visitor,  though  it  is  the  finest  part  of  the 
year,  and  many  are  constantly  passing.  We  and  our  object 
are  now  well  known  throughout  Rangoon.  None  wish  to  call, 
as  formerly,  out  of  curiosity,  and  none  dare  to  call  from  a 
principle  of  religious  inquiry.  And  were  not  the  leaders  in 
ecclesiastical  affairs  confident  that  we  shall  never  succeed  in 
making  converts,  I  have  no  doubt  we  should  meet  with  direct 
persecution  and  banishment. 

Our  business  must  be  fairly  laid  before  the  emperor.  If  he 
frown  upon  us,  all  missionary  attempts  within  his  dominions 
will  be  out  of  the  question.  If  he  favor  us,  none  of  our 
enemies,  during  the  continuance  of  his  favor,  can  touch  a  hair 
of  our  heads.  But  there  is  a  greater  than  the  emperor, 
before  v  hose  throne  we  desire  daily  and  constantly  to  lay  this 
business.  O  Lord  Jesus,  look  upon  us  in  our  low  estate,  and 
guide  us  in  our  dangerous  course ! 

November  21.  Moung  Shwa-gnong  has  been  with  us  the 
greater  part  of  the  day,  and  a  little  revived  our  hopes  con- 
cerning him. 

November  27.  This  day  brother  Colman  and  mj'self 
came  to  a  final  decision  to  proceed  to  Ava  without  delay,  and 
lay  our  business  before  the  emperor. 

November  29.  Letters  from  Bengal  and  America,  the  first 
for  six  months.  Learned  the  particulars  of  the  melancholy 
end  of  our  lamented  brother  Wheelock.  The  news  of  his 
death  reached  us  some  time  ago.  Learned  also  that  brother 
Hough  intends  staying  in  Bengal.  The  tract  which  we  for- 
warded is  not  yet  printed  —  a  circumstance  which  occasions 
us  much  regret,  as  we  hoped  to  have  obtained  some  copies  to 
carry  up  to  Ava. 

December  4.  Another  visit  from  Moung  Shwa-gnong. 
After  several  hours  spent  in  metaphysical  cavils,  he  owned 
that  he  did  not  believe  any  thing  he  had  said,  and  had  only 
VOL.  I.  21 


242  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

been  trying  me  and  the  religion,  being  determined  to  embrace 
nothing  but  what  he  found  unobjectionable  and  impregnable. 
"  What,"  said  he,  "  do  you  think  that  I  would  pay  you  the 
least  attention  if  I  found  you  could  not  answer  all  my  ques- 
tions, and  solve  all  my  difficulties  ?  "  He  then  proceeded  to 
say,  that  he  really  believed  in  God,  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  the 
atonement,  &c.  Said  I,  knowing  his  deistical  weakness, 
"  Do  you  believe  all  that  is  contained  in  the  book  of  Matthew, 
tliat  I  have  given  you  ?  In  particular,  do  you  believe  that 
the  Son  of  God  died  on  a  cross  ?  "  "  Ah,"  replied  he,  "  you 
have  caught  me  now.  I  believe  that  he  suffered  death,  but  I 
cannot  admit  that  he  suffered  the  shameful  death  of  the  cross." 
"  Therefore,"  said  I,  "  you  are  not  a  disciple  of  Christ.  A 
true  disciple  inquires  not  whether  a  fact  is  agreeable  to  his 
own  reason,  but  whether  it  is  in  the  book.  His  pride  has 
yielded  to  the  divine  testimony.  Teacher,  your  pride  is  still 
unbroken.  Break  down  your  pride,  and  yield  to  the  word  of 
God."  He  stopped  and  thought.  "  As  you  utter  those  words," 
said  he,  "  I  see  my  error.  I  have  been  trusting  in  my  own 
reason,  not  in  the  word  of  God."  Some  interruption  now  oc- 
curred. When  we  were  again  alone,  he  said,  "  This  day  is 
different  from  all  the  days  on  which  I  have  visited  you.  I  see 
my  error  in  trusting  in  my  own  reason ;  and  I  now  believe 
the  crucifixion  of  Christ,  because  it  is  contained  in  the 
Scripture."  Some  time  after,  speaking  of  the  uncertainty  of 
life,  he  said  he  thought  he  should  not  be  lost,  though  he  died 
suddenly.  Why  ?  "  Because  I  love  Jesus  Christ."  "  Do 
you  really  love  him  ?  "  "  No  one  that  really  knows  him  can 
help  loving  him."     And  so  he  departed. 

December  10.  A  few  days  ago,  we  succeeded  in  ])urc!i:is- 
ing  a  boat  for  the  journey  to  Ava,  after  having  spent  a  whole 
week  in  the  search.  Have  since  been  employing  workmen  to 
cover  it  and  put  it  in  order. 

Yesterday  we  applied  to  the  viceroy  for  a  pass  to  go  up  to 
the  golden  feet,  and  lift  up  our  eyes  to  the  golden  face.  He 
granted  our  request  in  very  polite  terms. 

I  must  now  close   up  my  journal,  to  be  sent  on  board  ship 


rilEPAKATIONS    TO    VISIT    AVA.  243 

to-morrow  morning.  We  expect  to  leave  Rangoon  in  about  a 
week.  My  next  will  probably  contain  some  account  of  our 
journey  up  the  river,  and  our  reception  at  court.  O  Lord, 
send  now  prosperity  ;  yet  not  my  will,  but  thine,  be  done. 

To  the  Corresponding  Secretary. 

Rangoon,  December  8,  1819. 

Rev.  and  dear  Sir  :  Being  about  to  leave  Rangoon,  on 
a  visit  to  the  court  of  Ava,  we  feel  it  our  duty  briefly  to  state 
to  the  board  the  reasons  of  our  procedure. 

From  the  opening  of  the  zayat,  last  spring,  till  within  a  month 
or  two  ago,  our  affairs  appeared  to  be  in  a  prosperous  state. 
Many  daily  heard  the  gospel ;  cases  of  hopeful  inquiry  fre- 
quently occurred;  no  serious  opposition  appeared;  and  dur- 
ing the  little  interval  of  quiet,  four  precious  souls,  the  first 
fruits  of  Burmah,  gave  evidence  of  having  obtained  the  grace 
of  God,  three  of  whom  have  been  baptized. 

Some  time,  however,  before  the  baptism  of  the  last  two,  the 
death  of  the  emperor,  and  the  succession  of  the  heir  appar- 
ent to  the  crown,  operated  to  give  a  new  aspect  to  the  religious 
affairs  of  this  country.  The  former  emperor  was  known  to  be, 
in  heart,  hostile  to  the  priests  of  Boodh ;  and  he  frequently 
manifested  his  sentiments  in  such  acts  of  persecution  as  kept  the 
religion  in  a  low  and  declining  state.  On  his  death,  the  hopes 
of  the  priests  and  their  adherents  began  to  revive ;  and  every 
discovery  of  the  new  emperor's  friendly  disposition  has  tended 
to  restore  the  religious  establishment  of  the  country  to  its 
former  privileges  and  rank.  The  change  effected  even  in 
Rangoon,  under  our  own  eyes,  is  very  remarkable. 

Soon  after  these  events  began  to  transpire,  and  probably  in 
consequence  of  them,  our  fifth  inquirer,  a  teacher  of  learning 
and  influence,  was  accused,  before  the  viceroy,  of  having  em- 
braced heretical  sentiments.  The  viceroy  gave  no  decisive 
order,  but  directed  further  inquiry  to  be  made.  Upon  this  our 
friend  went  to  the  principal  informant,  who  is  at  the  head  of 
ecclesiastical  affairs  in  Rangoon,  made  his  peace  with  him,  and 


244  ME.MOlll    OF    DK.    JUDSOX. 

discontinued  his  visits  to  the  zayat.  This  circumstance  spread 
an  alarm  among  all  our  acquaintance,  and  combining  with  the 
general  state  of  things,  and  the  prevailing  expectation  that 
our  attempts  would  shortly  be  proscribed,  occasioned  a  com- 
plete falling  off  at  the  zayat ;  and  with  the  exception  of  the 
teacher  above  named,  who  has  lately  visited  us  in  private,  and 
those  who  have  already  joined  us,  we  are  deserted. 

Under  these  circumstances,  it  appears  to  us  that  there  re- 
mains but  one  course  of  proceeding  —  to  go  directly  into  the 
imperial  presence,  lay  our  missionary  designs  before  the 
throne,  and  solicit  toleration  for  the  Christian  religion.  By 
this  proceeding,  we  hope  to  discover  the  real  feelings  and  sen- 
timents of  the  emperor.  We  hope  to  ascertain,  as  distinctly 
as  possible,  whether  he  is  devoted  to  Boodhism,  or  has  im- 
bibed in  any  degree  the  opinions  of  his  grandfather,  and 
disguises  them  at  present,  from  motives  of  policy  merely.  If 
the  former  be  the  case,  he  will  prohibit  our  missionary  work, 
and  w^e  shall  be  under  the  necessity  of  leaving  his  dominions. 
If  the  latter  be  the  case,  and  he  be,  in  any  measure,  pleased 
with  the  Christian  system,  he  will,  w^e  hope,  give  us  at 
least  such  private  encouragement  as  will  enable  us  to  prose- 
cute our  work  without  incurring  the  charge  of  rashness  and 
enthusiasm. 

In  approaching  the  throne,  we  desire  to  have  a  simple  de- 
pendence on  the  presence  and  power  of  our  Saviour,  and  a 
single  eye  to  his  glory.  We  have  indeed  no  other  ground  of 
hope  ;  we  ought  to  have  no  other  view.  We  trust  that,  if  the 
set  time  to  favor  Burmah  is  come,  He  who  is  wonderful  in 
counsel,  and  excellent  in  working,  will  open  a  wide  and  effect- 
ual door  for  the  promulgation  of  divine  truth.  But  if  the 
Lord  has  other  purposes,  it  becomes  us  meekly  to  acquiesce, 
and  willingly  to  sacrifice  our  dearest  hopes  to  the  divine  will. 
We  rest  assured,  that,  in  either  case,  the  perfections  of  God 
will  be  displayed,  and  desire  to  be  thankful  that  we  are 
allowed  to  be  in  any  way  instrumental  in  contributing  to  that 
display. 


prvF:rAKATiONS  to  visit  ava.  245 

We  commend  ourselves  and  the  mission,  in  the  present  sol- 
emn crisis,  to  the  sympathies  and  prayers  of  our  fathers  and 
brethren,  and  the  Christian  public,  and  remain, 
Rev.  and  dear  sir, 

Your  devoted  servants  in  the  Lord, 

A.  JuDSON,  Jr., 

J.    COLMAN. 

21* 


CHAPTER    VIII. 

FIEST  VISIT  TO  AVA.  -  RETURN  TO  RANGOON.- PROGRESS  OF 
THE  GOSPEL.  — NEW  STATION  AT  CHITTAGONG. —  FAILURE  OF 
MRS.  JUDSON'S   HEALTH.  — VOYAGE  TO  BENGAL. 

1819-1820. 

The  following  chapter  contains  the  journal  of  Mr. 
Judson  during  his  first  visit  to  Ava,  and  his  account 
of  the  gradual  progress  of  the  gospel  at  Rangoon. 
It  will  be  perceived  that  the  religion  of  Christ  ex- 
tended itself,  as  at  the  beginning,  by  transforming 
into  its  own  image  one  individual  after  another,  and 
that  in  all  cases  the  moral  feelings  of  the  converts 
were  essentially  the  same.  They  acknowledged  the 
attributes  of  God,  and  their  relations  and  obligations 
to  him  ;  they  became  deeply  conscious  of  their  sin 
against  him,  and  of  their  desert  of  his  endless  dis- 
pleasure ;  they  fled  for  refuge  from  deserved  wrath  to 
the  cross  of  Christ,  and,  humbly  penitent  for  their  past 
sins,  they  hoped  for  pardon  in  consequence  of  the 
great  atonement ;  and  the  proof  that  all  this  was  real 
was  found  in  the  fact  that  from  these  moral  exercises 
there  sprang  up  an  entirely  new  life  —  a  life  of  piety 
to  God  and  charity  to  man.  This  is  precisely  what 
we  all  witness  every  day  among  ourselves,  wherever 
the  gospel  is  preached  in  simplicity  and  godly  sincer- 
ity, or  communicated  by  private  conversation,  and 
carried  directly  to  the  consciences  of  men. 

If  we  would  bear  these  facts  in  mind,  we  should 
discover  that  the  work  of  converting  men  is  essen- 
tially the  same  whether  it  be  attempted  in  a  heathen 

246 


OBJECT    OF    THE    FIRST    VISIT    TO    AVA.  247 

or  in  a  civilized  country.  The  means  and  the  manner 
of  employing  them  are  in  both  cases  identical.  The 
means  consist  in  proclaiming  the  message  of  salva- 
tion, and  the  manner  is  proclaiming  it  publicly,  and 
from  house  to  house.  Nor  is  this  labor,  in  either  case, 
to  be  confined  to  ministers  of  the  gospel,  though  they 
must  undoubtedly  devote  themselves  to  it  more  exclu- 
sively, since  it  is  their  appropriate,  daily  calling.  It 
is  the  duty  of  every  disciple  to  make  disciples.  "  Let 
every  one  that  heareth  say.  Come."  And  I  think 
that,  whenever  this  great  duty  is  neglected,  piety  de- 
cays, men  are  not  converted,  and  the  profession  of 
Christianity  soon  becomes  a  name  rather  than  a  real- 
ity. The  Acts  of  the  Apostles  teach  us  the  manner 
in  which  the  gospel  was  promulgated  in  the  earliest 
age  of  the  church.  It  were  well  if  Christians  at  home 
and  abroad  were  guided  more  implicitly  by  the  exam- 
ples of  those  who  spake  as  they  were  moved  by  thie 
Holy  Ghost.  We  are  never  commanded  to  use  indi- 
rect means  for  the  conversion  of  men.  No  dispensa- 
tion is  granted  to  any  class  of  men  by  which  they 
are  permitted  to  perform  this  duty  by  deputy.  Every 
disciple  of  Christ  is  commanded  meekly  and  lovingly 
to  urge  the  claims  of  the  gospel  upon  his  brethren 
immediately  around  him.  If  he  would  labor  for  the 
next  generation,  he  must  labor  for  them  by  converting 
the  generation  now  living.  God  has  appointed  but 
one  way  for  the  reformation  of  men.  It  is  the  incul- 
cation of  moral  truth  upon  others  by  those  who  have 
already  felt  its  influence  on  themselves. 

The  object  of  Mr.  Judson's  first  visit  to  Ava  was, 
to  present  to  the  king  a  petition  in  favor  of  religious 
liberty,  or,  in  other  words,  to  ask  a  ruler  to  permit 
his  subjects  to  worship  God.     It  has  always  seemed 


248  MEMOIR    OK    DK.    JUDSON. 

to  me  worth  while  to  inquire  whether  a  course  of  this 
kind  should  be  pursued  by  missionaries  of  the  gospel. 

In  the  first  place,  I  observe  that  the  first  Christian 
preachers  never  adopted  such  a  measure.  They  made 
known  to  every  one  "the  things  which  they  had  seen 
and  heard."  When  arrested,  they  declared  that  they 
acted  under  a  higher  than  human  authority  —  an 
authority  which  they  durst  not,  and  would  not,  dis- 
obey. When  driven  from  one  city,  they  fled  to  an- 
other, every  where  preaching,  but  never  asking  per- 
mission to  preach. 

Again  :  if  we  strip  this  question  of  all  accessories, 
it  resolves  itself  simply  into  this  :  Can  we  properly 
ask  one  man  to  permit  another  man  to  obey  God  ? 
Can  the  refusal  of  one  man  to  grant  this  permission 
discharge  another  man  from  the  obligation  to  worship 
his  Creator  ?  I  think  that  but  one  answer  can  be 
given  to  these  questions,  and  that  this  answer  must 
preclude  us  from  submitting  a  matter  of  this  kind  to 
the  jurisdiction  of  man.  By  asking  such  a  permis- 
sion, we  seem  to  admit  the  authority  of  a  ruler  to 
grant  or  to  refuse  it,  and  hence,  in  some  sort,  promise 
to  be  governed  by  his  decision.  This  we  have  no 
right  to  do  ;  and  hence  I  think  it  doubtful  whether 
the  permission  should  ever  be  sought. 

It  may  be  urged  that  the  case  is  modified  when  the 
government  is  a  despotism,  and  life  and  property 
depend  upon  the  caprice  of  a  single  man.  I  do  not 
see  that  this  alters  the  case  in  any  essential  particular. 
Under  such  a  government,  the  permission  would  be 
specially  worthless ;  for  what  was  granted  to-day 
might  be  withdrawn  to-morrow.  And  again  :  when 
we  have  taught  our  converts  to  ask  permission  to 
obey  God,  what  should  we  tell  them  to  do  when  this 


FIRST    VISIT    TO    AVA.  249 

permission  is  withdrawn  ?  In  the  present  instance, 
however,  this  contingency  did  not  arise.  The  wisdom 
of  God  had  decreed  that  the  seed  of  a  Christian 
church  in  Burmah  should  be  sown  amid  persecution 
ahiiost  unto  death.  In  this  soil  it  took  root,  and  bore 
fruit,  and  its  fruit  has  remained.  The  appeals  to  the 
government  were  unheeded  ;  but  the  jungles  of  Bur- 
mah and  its  adjoining  provinces  have  resounded  w^ith 
the  praises  of  God  and  of  his  Christ.  A  type  of  piety 
has  been  created  which  could  scarcely  have  existed 
under  the  fostering  care  of  government.  It  is  my 
opinion  that  Dr.  Judson,  in  the  later  years  of  his  life, 
would  have  looked  upon  this  subject  in  the  light  in 
which  I  have  now  presented  it. 

Journal  contimied. 

December  21.  After  having  made  arrangements  for  our 
wives'  residence  in  town  during  our  absence,  brother  Colman 
and  myself  embarked.  Our  boat  is  six  feet  wide  in  the  mid- 
dle, and  forty  feet  long.  A  temporary  deck  of  bamboos  is  laid 
throughout,  and  on  the  hinder  part  of  the  boat  the  sides  are 
raised  with  thin  boards,  and  a  covering  of  thatch,  and  mats 
tied  on,  so  as  to  form  two  low  rooms,  in  which  we  can  just  sit 
and  lie  down.  Our  company  consists  of  sixteen  besides  our- 
selves :  ten  rowmen,  a  steersman,  a  head  man,  —  whose  name  is 
inserted  in  our  passport,  and  who,  therefore,  derives  a  little 
authority  from  government,  —  a  steward  or  cook  for  the  com- 
pany,—  which  place  is  filled  by  our  trusty  Moung  Nau,  —  our 
own  cook,  a  Hindoo  washerman,  and  an  Englishman,  who, 
having  been  unfortunate  all  his  life,  wishes  to  try  the  service 
of  his  Burman  majesty  ;  and  this  last  personage  may  be  called 
our  gunner,  he  having  charge  of  several  guns  and  blunder- 
busses, which  are  indispensable  on  account  of  the  robbers  that 
infest  the  river. 

We  have  been  much  perplexed  in  fixing  on  a  present  for  the 
emperor,  without  which  no  person  unauthorized  can  appear  in 


250  MEMOIR    OF    DK.    JUDSON. 

his  presence.  Our  funds  were  evidently  inadequate  to  the 
purchase  of  articles  which  would  be  valuable  to  hini  in  a  pe- 
cuniary point  of  view  :  when  we  considered,  also,  that  there 
ought  to  be  a  congruity  between  the  present  and  our  charac- 
ter, we  selected  that  book  which  we  hope  to  be  allowed  to 
translate  under  his  patronage,  the  Bible,  in  six  volumes,  cov- 
ered with  gold  leaf,  in  Burman  style,  and  each  volume  en- 
closed in  a  rich  wrapper.  For  presents  to  other  members  of 
government,  we  have  taken  several  pieces  of  fine  cloth  and 
other  articles. 

Thus  manned  and  furnished,  we  pushed  off  from  the  shores 
of  Rangoon.  The  teacher  Moung  Shwa-gnong  had  not  been 
to  see  us  for  several  days,  ashamed,  probably,  of  having  de- 
clined accompanying  us  ;  but  just  as  we  were  pushing  off,  we 
saw  his  tall  form  standing  on  the  wharf.  He  raised  his  hand 
to  his  head,  and  bade  us  adieu,  and  continued  looking  after  the 
boat  until  a  projecting  point  shut  Rangoon  and  all  its  scenes 
from  our  view.  When  shall  we  redouble  this  little  point  ? 
Through  what  shall  we  pass  ere  the  scene  now  snatched  away 
be  re-presented  ?  The  expedition  on  which  we  have  entered, 
however  it  may  terminate,  is  unavoidably  fraught  with  conse- 
quences momentous  and  solemn  beyond  all  conception.  We 
are  penetrating  into  the  heart  of  one  of  the  great  kingdoms  of 
the  world,  to  make  a  formal  offer  of  the  gospel  to  a  despotic 
monarch,  and  through  him  to  the  millions  of  his  subjects. 
May  the  Lord  accompany  us,  and  crown  our  attempt  with  the 
desired  success,  if  it  be  consistent  with  his  wise  and  holy  will. 

At  night  we  moored  by  the  banks  of  Kyee-myen-daing.  It 
was  near  this  place  that,  a  few  days  ago,  one  of  the  boats  be- 
longing to  Mr.  G.,  late  collector  of  Rangoon,  was  attacked  by 
robbers,  and  the  steersman  and  another  man  killed  at  a  single 
shot.  We  felt  unwilling  to  remain  at  this  village,  but  found  it 
necessary. 

On  the  30th  reached  Kah-noung,  a  considerable  town,  about 
ninety  miles  from  Rangoon.  Here  we  met  a  special  officer 
from  Bassein,  with  a  detachment  of  men,  sent  in  pursuit  of  a 
band  of  robbers  who  lately  made  a  daring  attack  on  a  large 


FIRST    VISIT    TO    AVA.  251 

boat,  wounded  and  beat  off  the  people,  and  took  plunder  to  the 
amount  of  fifteen  hundred  ticals.  The  commander  offered  us 
an  escort  for  the  journey  of  to-morrow,  which  lies  through  a 
dangerous  tract  of  country  ;  but  we  declined  accepting,  as  we 
should  have  been  obliged  to  give  the  people  presents,  without 
deriving  any  substantial  assistance  in  the  hour  of  danger. 
Strict  watch  all  night. 

January  17,  1820.  Reached  Pugan,  a  city  celebrated 
in  Burman  history,  being,  like  Pyee,  the  seat  of  a  former 
dynasty.  It  is  about  two  hundred  and  sixty  miles  from  Ran- 
goon. 

January  18.  Took  a  survey  of  the  splendid  pagodas  and 
extensive  ruins  in  the  environs  of  this  once  famous  city.  As- 
cended as  far  as  possible  some  of  the  highest  edifices,  and,  at 
the  height  of  one  hundred  feet,  perhaps,  beheld  all  the  country 
round,  covered  with  temples  and  monuments  of  every  sort  and 
size  ;  some  in  utter  ruin,  some  fast  decaying,  and  some  exhib- 
iting marks  of  recent  attention  and  repair.  The  remains  of 
the  ancient  wall  of  the  city  stretched  beneath  us.  The  pillars 
of  the  gates,  and  many  a  grotesque,  decapitated  relic  of  an- 
tiquity, checkered  the  motley  scene.  All  conspired  to  suggest 
those  elevated  and  mournful  ideas  which  are  attendant  on  a 
view  of  the  decaying  remains  of  ancient  grandeur ;  and, 
thopgli  not  comparable  to  such  ruins  as  those  of  Palmyra  and 
Balbec,  (as  they  are  represented,)  still  deeply  interesting  to 
the  antiquary,  and  more  deeply  interesting  to  the  Christian 
missionary.  Here,  about  eight  hundred  years  ago,  the  re- 
ligion of  Boodh  was  first  publicly  recognized  and  established 
as  the  religion  of  the  empire.  Here,  then,  Ah-rah-han,  the 
first  Boodhist  apostle  of  Burmah,  under  the  patronage  of  King 
Anan-ra-tha-men-zan,  disseminated  the  doctrines  of  atheism, 
and  taught  his  disciples  to  pant  after  annihilation,  as  the  su- 
preme good.  Some  of  the  ruins  before  our  eyes  were  prob- 
ably the  remains  of  pagodas  designed  by  himself.  "We  looked 
back  on  the  centuries  of  darkness  that  are  past.  "We  looked 
forward,  and  Christian  hope  would  fain  brighten  the  prospect. 
Perhaps  we  stand  on  the  dividing  line  of  the  empires  of  dark- 


252  MEMOIR    OF    Dll.    JUDSON. 

ness  and  light.  O  shade  of  Ah-rali-han,  weep  over  thy  falling 
fanes  ;  retire  from  the  scenes  of  thy  past  greatness.  But 
thou  smilest  at  my  feeble  voice.  Linger,  then,  thy  little  re- 
maining day.  A  voice  mightier  than  mine,  a  still  small  voice, 
will  ere  long  sweep  away  every  vestige  of  thy  dominion.  The 
churches  of  Jesus  will  soon  supplant  these  idolatrous  monu- 
ments, and  the  chanting  of  the  devotees  of  Boodh  will  die 
away  before  the  Christian  hymn  of  praise. 

January  25.  Passed  Old  Ava,  the  seat  of  the  dynasty 
immediately  preceding  the  present,  and  Tsah-gaing,  a  place 
of  some  note,  distinguished  for  its  innumerable  pagodas,  and 
the  residence  of  one  or  two  late  emperors,  and  about  noon 
drew  up  to  0-ding-man,  the  lower  landing-place  of  New  Ava, 
or  Amarapoora,  about  three  hundred  and  fifty  miles  from 
Rangoon.  At  our  present  distance  of  nearly  four  miles  from 
the  city,  (and  we  cannot  get  nearer  this  season,)  it  appears  to 
the  worst  advantage.  We  can  hardly  distinguish  the  golden 
steeple  of  the  palace  amid  the  glittering  pagodas,  whose  sum- 
mits just  suffice  to  mark  the  spot  of  our  ultimate  destination. 

January  26.  We  set  out  early  in  the  morning,  called  on 
Mr.  G.,  late  collector  of  Rangoon,  and  on  Mr.  R.,  who  was 
formerly  collector,  but  is  now  out  of  favor.  Thence  we  en- 
tered the  city,  passed  the  palace,  and  repaired  to  tJie  house 
of  Mya-day-men,  former  viceroy  of  Rangoon,  now  one  of  the 
public  ministers  of  state,  (woon-gyee.)  AVe  gave  him  a  valu- 
able present,  and  another  of  less  value  to  his  wife,  the  lady 
who  formerly  treated  Mr.  G.  with  so  much  politeness.  They 
both  received  us  very  kindly,  and  appeared  to  interest  them- 
selves in  our  success.  We,  however,  did  not  disclose  our 
precise  object,  but  only  petitioned  leave  to  behold  the  golden 
face.  Upon  this,  his  highness  committed  our  business  to 
Moung  Yo,  one  of  his  favorite  officers,  and  directed  him  to 
introduce  us  to  Moung  Zah,  one  of  the  private  ministers  of 
state,  (a-twen-woon,)  with  the  necessary  orders.  This  partic- 
ular favor  of  Mya-day-men  prevents  the  necessity  of  our 
petitioning  and  feeing  all  the  public  ministers  of  state,  and 
procuring  formal  permission  from  the  high  court  of  the 
empire. 


FIKST    VISIT    TO    AVA.  253 

In  the  evening,  Moung  Yo,  who  Hves  near  our  boat,  called 
on  us  lo  say  that  he  would  conduct  us  to-morrow.  We  lie 
down  in  sleepless  anxiety.  To-morrow's  dawn  will  usher  in 
tjie  most  eventful  day  of  our  lives.  To-morrow's  eve  will 
close  on  the  bloom  or  the  blight  of  our  fondest  hopes.  Yet 
it  is  consoling  to  commit  this  business  into  the  hands  of  our 
heavenly  Father  —  to  feel  that  the  work  is  his,  not  ours ;  that 
the  heart  of  the  monarch  before  whom  we  are  to  appear  is 
under  the  control  of  Omnipotence  ;  and  that  the  event  will  be 
ordered  in  the  manner  most  conducive  to  the  divine  glory  and 
the  greatest  good.  God  may,  for  the  wisest  purposes,  suffer 
our  hopes  to  be  disappointed  ;  and  if  so,  why  should  short- 
sighted, mortal  man  repine  ?  Thy  will,  O  God,  be  ever  done  ; 
for  thy  will  is  inevitably  the  wisest  and  the  best. 

January  27.  We  left  the  boat,  and  put  ourselves  under 
the  conduct  of  Moung  Yo.  He  carried  us  first  to  Mya-day- 
men,  as  a  matter  of  form  ;  and  there  we  learned  that  the 
emperor  had  been  privately  apprised  of  our  arrival,  and  said, 
"  Let  them  be  introduced."  We  therefore  proceeded  to  the 
palace.  At  the  outer  gate,  we  were  detained  a  long  time, 
until  the  various  officers  were  satisfied  that  we  had  a  right  to 
enter,  after  which  we  deposited  a  present  for  the  private  min- 
ister of  state,  Moung  Zah,  and  were  ushered  into  his  apart- 
ments in  the  palace  yard.  He  received  us  very  pleasantly, 
and  ordered  us  to  sit  before  several  governors  and  petty  kings, 
who  were  waiting  at  his  levee.  We  here,  for  the  first  time, 
disclosed  our  character  and  object  —  told  him  that  we  were 
missionaries,  or  "  propagators  of  religion  ; "  that  we  wished  to 
appear  before  the  emperor,  and  present  our  sacred  books, 
accompanied  with  a  petition.  He  took  the  petition  into  his 
hand,  looked  over  about  half  of  it,  and  then  familiarly  asked 
several  questions  about  our  God  and  our  religion,  to  which  we 
replied.  Just  at  this  crisis,  some  one  announced  that  the 
golden  foot  was  about  to  advance ;  on  which  the  minister 
hastily  rose  up,  and  put  on  his  robes  of  state,  saying  that  he 
must  seize  the  moment  to  present  us  to  the  emperor.  We 
now  found  that  we  had  unwittingly  fallen  on  an  unpropitious 
VOL.  I.  22 


254  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

time,  it  being  the  day  of  the  cehibration  of  the  late  victory 
over  the  Kathays,  and  the  very  hour  v.'hen  his  majesty  Avas 
coming  forth  to  witness  the  display  made  on  the  occasion. 
When  the  minister  was  dressed,  he  just  said,  "  How  can  you 
propagate  religion  in  this  empire  ?  But  come  along."  Our 
hearts  sank  at  these  inauspicious  words.  He  conducted  us 
through  various  splendor  and  parade,  until  we  ascended  a 
flight  of  stairs,  and  entered  a  most  magnificent  hall.  He 
directed  us  where  to  sit,  and  took  his  place  on  one  side ;  the 
present  was  placed  on  the  other ;  and  Moung  Yo  and  another 
officer  of  Mya-day-men  sat  a  little  behind.  The  scene  to 
which  we  were  now  introduced  really  surpassed  our  expecta- 
tion. The  spacious  extent  of  the  hall,  the  number  and  mag- 
nitude of  the  pillars,  the  height  of  the  dome,  the  whole  com- 
pletely covered  with  gold,  presented  a  most  grand  and  im- 
posing spectacle.  Very  few  were  present,  and  those  evidently 
great  officers  of  state.  Our  situation  prevented  us  from  see- 
ing the  farther  avenue  of  the  hall ;  but  the  end  where  we  sat 
opened  into  the  parade  which  the  emperor  was  about  to  in- 
spect. We  remained  about  five  minutes,  when  every  one  put 
himself  into  the  most  respectful  attitude,  and  Moung  Yo 
whispered  that  his  majesty  had  entered.  We  looked  through 
the  hall  as  far  as  the  pillars  would  allow,  and  presently  caught 
sight  of  this  modern  Ahasuerus.  He  came  forward  unat- 
tended,—  in  solitary  grandeur,  —  exhibiting  the  proud  gait  and 
majesty  of  an  eastern  monarch.  His  dress  was  rich,  but  not 
distinctive ;  and  he  carried  in  his  hand  the  gold-sheathed  sword, 
which  seems  to  have  taken  the  place  of  the  sceptre  of  ancient 
times.  But  it  was  his  high  aspect  and  commanding  eye  that 
chiefly  riveted  our  attention.  He  strided  on.  Every  head 
excepting  ours  was  now  in  the  dust.  We  remained  kneeling^ 
our  hands  folded,  our  eyes  fixed  on  the  monarch.  When  he 
drew  near,  we  caught  his  attention.  He  stopped,  partly 
turned  towards  us  — "  Who  are  these  ?  "  "  The  teachers, 
great  king,"  I  replied.  "What,  you  speak  Burman  —  the 
priests  that  I  heard  of  last  night  ?  "  "  When  did  you  arrive  ?  " 
"  Are  you  teachers  of  religion  (* "     "  Are  you  like  the  Portu- 


FIRST    VISIT    TO    AVA.  255 

gucse  priest  ?  "  "  Are  you  married  ?  "  "  Why  do  you  dress 
so  ?  "  Tliese  and  some  other  similar  questions  we  answered, 
when  he  appeared  to  be  pleased  with  us,  and  sat  down  on  an 
elevated  seat,  his  hand  resting  on  the  hilt  of  his  sword,  and 
his  eyes  intently  fixed  on  us.  Moung  Zah  now  began  to  read 
the  petition  ;  and  it  ran  thus  :  — 

"  The  American  teachers  present  themselves  to  receive  the 
favor  of  the  excellent  king,  the  sovereign  of  land  and  sea. 
Hearing  that,  on  account  of  the  greatness  of  the  royal  power, 
the  royal  country  was  in  a  quiet  and  prosperous  state,  we  ar- 
rived at  the  town  of  Rangoon,  within  the  royal  dominions,  and 
having  obtained  leave  of  the  governor  of  that  town  to  come 
up  and  behold  the  golden  face,  we  have  ascended  and  reached 
the  bottom  of  the  golden  feet.  In  the  great  country  of  Amer- 
ica, we  sustain  the  character  of  teachers  and  explainers  of  the 
contents  of  the  sacred  Scriptures  of  our  rehgion.  And  since  it 
is  contained  in  those  Scriptures,  that,  if  we  pass  to  other  coun- 
tries, and  preach  and  propagate  religion,  great  good  will  result, 
and  both  those  who  teach  and  those  Avho  receive  the  religion 
will  be  freed  from  future  punishment,  and  enjoy,  without  decay 
or  death,  the  eternal  felicity  of  heaven, — that  royal  permission 
be  given,  that  we,  taking  refuge  in  the  royal  power,  may 
preach  our  religion  in  these  dominions,  and  that  those  who  are 
pleased  with  our  preaching,  and  wish  to  listen  to  and  be  guid- 
ed by  it,  whether  foreigners  or  Burmans,  may  be  exempt 
from  government  molestation,  they  present  themselves  to 
receive  the  favor  of  the  excellent  king,  the  sovereign  of  land 
and  sea." 

The  emperor  heard  this  petition,  and  stretched  out  his 
hand.  Moung  Zah  crawled  forward  and  presented  it.  His 
majesty  began  at  the  top,  and  deliberately  read  it  through. 
In  the  mean  time,  I  gave  Moung  Zah  an  abridged  copy  of  the 
tract,  in  which  every  offensive  sentence  was  corrected,  and 
the  whole  put  into  the  handsomest  style  and  dress  possible. 
After  the  emperor  had  perused  the  petition,  he  handed  it  back 
without  saying  a  word,  and  took  the  tract.  Our  hearts  now 
rose  to  God  for  a  display  of  his  grace.     "  0,  have  mercy  on 


256  MEMOIR    OF    DR.  JUDSON. 

Burmah  !  Have  mercy  on  her  king  ! "  But,  alas  !  the  time 
was  not  yet  come.  He  held  the  tract  long  enough  to  read  the 
first  two  sentences,  which  assert  that  there  is  one  eternal  God, 
who  is  independent  of  the  incidents  of  mortality,  and  that 
beside  him,  there  is  no  God;  and  then,  with  an  air  of  indiffer- 
ence, perhaps  disdain,  he  dashed  it  down  to  the  ground. 
INIoung  Zah  stooped  forward,  picked  it  up,  and  handed  it  to  us. 
Moung  Yo  made  a  slight  attempt  to  save  us  by  unfolding  one 
of  the  volumes,  which  composed  our  present,  and  displaying 
its  beauty  ;  but  his  majesty  took  no  notice.  Our  fate  was  de- 
cided. After  a  few  moments,  Moung  Zah  interpreted  his  royal 
master's  will,  in  the  following  terms :  "  Why  do  you  ask  for 
such  permission  ?  Have  not  the  Portuguese,  the  English,  the 
Mussulmans,  and  people  of  all  other  religions,  full  liberty  to 
practise  and  worship  according  to  their  own  customs  ?  In  re- 
gard to  the  objects  of  your  petition,  his  majesty  gives  no  order. 
In  regard  to  your  sacred  books,  his  majesty  has  no  use  for 
them :  take  them  away." 

Something  was  now  said  about  brother  Colman's  skill  in 
medicine  ;  upon  which  the  emperor  once  more  opened  his 
mouth,  and  said,  "  Let  them  proceed  to  the  residence  of  my 
physician,  the  Portuguese  priest ;  let  him  examine  whether 
they  can  be  useful  to  me  in  that  line,  and  report  accordingly. 
He  then  rose  from  his  seat,  strided  on  to  the  end  of  the  hall, 
and  there,  after  having  dashed  to  the  ground  the  first  intelli- 
gence that  he  had  ever  received  of  the  eternal  God,  his  Maker, 
his  Preserver,  his  Judge,  he  threw  himself  down  on  a  cushion, 
and  lay  listening  to  the  music,  and  gazing  at  the  parade  spread 
out  before  him. 

As  for  us  and  our  present,  we  were  huddled  up  and  hurried 
away,  Avithout  mucli  ceremony.  We  passed  out  of  the  palace 
gates  with  much  more  facility  than  we  entered,  and  were  con- 
ducted first  to  the  house  of  Mya-day-mcn.  There  his  officer 
reported  our  reception,  but  in  as  favorable  terms  as  possible ; 
and  as  his  highness  was  not  apprised  of  our  precise  object, 
our  repulse  appeared  probably  to  him  not  so  decisive  as  we 
knew  it  to  be.     We  were  next  conducted  two  miles  throudi 


riliST   VISIT   TO    AVA.  257 

tlie  lieat  of  the  sun  and  dust  of  the  streets  of  Ava  to  the  resi- 
dence of  the  Portuguese  priest.  lie  very  speedily  ascer- 
tained that  we  were  in  possession  of  no  wonderful  secret, 
which  would  secure  the  emperor  from  all  disease,  and  make 
him  live  forever ;  and  we  were  accordingly  allowed  to  take 
leave  of  the  reverend  inquisitor,  and  retreat  to  our  boat. 

At  this  stage  of  the  business,  notwithstanding  the  decided 
repulse  we  had  received,  we  still  cherished  some  hope  of  ulti- 
mately gaining  our  point.  We  regretted  that  a  sudden  inter- 
ruption had  prevented  our  explaining  our  objects  to  Moung 
Zah  in  that  familiar  and  confidential  manner  which  we  had 
intended  ;  and  we  determined,  therefore,  to  make  another  at- 
tempt upon  him  in  private. 

January  28.  Early  in  the  morning  we  had  the  pleasure  of 
seeing  our  friend  Mr.  G.  coming  to  our  boat.  It  may  not  be 
amiss  to  mention  that  he  is  the  collector  who  was  chiefly  in- 
strumental in  relieving  us  from  the  exorbitant  demand  which, 
a  few  moriths  ago,  was  made  upon  us  in  Rangoon.  He  now 
told  us  that  he  had  heard  of  our  repulse,  but  would  not  have 
us  give  up  all  hope ;  that  he  was  particularly  acquainted  with 
Moung  Zah,  and  would  accompany  us  to  his  house,  a  little  be- 
fore sunset,  at  an  hour  when  he  was  accessible.  This  precisely 
accorded  with  our  intentions. 

In  the  afternoon,  therefore,  we  called  on  Mr.  G.,  and  he 
went  with  us  into  the  city.  On  the  way  we  paid  a  visit  to  the 
wife  of  the  present  viceroy  of  Rangoon,  whose  eldest  son  is 
married  to  the  only  daughter  of  the  present  emperor.  We 
carried  a  present,  and  were,  of  course,  kindly  received. 

Thence  we  went  to  the  house  of  Moung  Zah,  some  way  be- 
yond the  palace.  He  received  us  with  great  coldness  and  re- 
serve. The  conversation,  which  we  carried  on  chiefly  tlu-ough 
Mr.  G.,  it  is  unnecessary  to  detail.  Suffice  it  to  say,  that  we 
ascertained  beyond  a  doubt,  that  the  policy  of  the  Burman 
government,  in  regard  to  the  toleration  of  any  foreign  religion, 
is  precisely  the  same  with  the  Chinese  ;  that  it  is  quite  out  of 
the  question,  whether  any  of  the  subjects  of  the  emperor,  who 
embrace  a  religion  ditierent  from  liis  own,  will  be  exempt  from 
22* 


258  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

punishment ;  and  that  we,  in  presenting  a  petition  to  that  ef- 
fect, had  been  guilty  of  a  most  egregious  blunder,  an  unpar- 
donable offence.  Mr.  G.  urged  every  argument  that  we  sug- 
gested, and  some  others.  He  finally  stated  that,  if  we  obtained 
the  royal  favor,  other  foreigners  would  come  and  settle  in  the 
empire,  and  trade  Avould  be  greatly  benefited.  This  argu- 
ment alone  seemed  to  have  any  effect  on  the  mind  of  the  min- 
ister, and  looking  out  from  the  cloud  which  covered  his  face,  he 
vouchsafed  to  say,  that  if  we  would  wait  some  time,  he  would 
endeavor  to  speak  to  his  majesty  about  us.  From  this  remark 
it  was  impossible  to  derive  any  encouragement ;  and  having 
nothing  further  to  urge,  we  left  Mr.  G.,  and  bowing  down  to 
the  ground,  took  leave  of  this  great  minister  of  state,  who,  un- 
der the  emperor,  guides  the  movements  of  the  whole  empire. 

It  was  now  evening.  We  had  four  miles  to  walk  by  moon- 
light. Two  of  our  disciples  only  followed  us.  They  had 
ventured  as  near  as  they  durst  to  the  door  of  the  hall  of 
audience,  and  listened  to  words  which  sealed  the  extinction  of 
their  hope  and  ours.     For  some  time  we  spoke  not. 

**  Some  natural  tears  we  dropped,  but  wiped  them  soon ; 
The  world  was  all  before  us,  where  to  choose 
Our  place  of  rest,  and  Providence  our  guide." 

And,  as  our  first  parents  took  their  solitary  way  through 
Eden,  hand  in  hand,  so  we  took  our  Avay  through  this  great 
city,  which,  to  our  late  imagination,  seemed  another  Eden,  but 
now,  through  the  magic  touch  of  disappointment,  seemed 
blasted  and  withered,  as  if  smitten  by  the  fatal  infiuence  of 
the  cherubic  sword. 

Arrived  at  the  boat,  we  threw  ourselves  down,  completely 
exhausted  in  body  and  mind.  For  three  days  we  had  Avalked 
eight  miles  a  day,  the  most  of  the  way  in  the  heat  of  the  sun, 
which,  even  at  this  season,  in  the  interior  of  these  countries, 
is  exceedingly  oppressive,  and  the  result  of  our  travels  and 
toils  has  been  —  the  wisest  and  best  possible  ;  a  result  which, 
if  we  could  see  the  end  from  the  beginning,  would  call  forth 
our  highest  praise.     O,  slow  of  heart  to  believe  and  trust  in 


FIRST    VISIT    TO    AVA.  259 

the  constant  presence  and  overruling  agency  of  our  own  al- 
mighty  Saviour. 

January  29.  We  again  rose  early,  and,  having  considered 
the  last  words  of  Moung  Zah,  wrote  down  our  request  in  the 
most  concise  and  moderate  terms,  and  sent  it  to  Mr.  G.,  with  a 
message  that  he  would  once  more  see  Moung  Zah,  lay  the  pa- 
per before  him,  and  ascertain  unequivocally  whether  there  was 
any  possibility  of  gaining  our  point  by  waiting  several  months. 

The  rest  of  the  day,  and  the  next,  being  Lord's  day,  we 
remained  in  the  boat. 

January  31,  Monday.  Mr.  G.  called  upon  us,  with  our 
little  paper  in  his  hand.  "I  have  shown  your  paper  to 
Moung  Zah,  and  begged  him  not  to  deceive  you,  but  to  say 
distinctly  what  hopes  you  might  be  allowed  to  entertain.  He 
replied,  '  Tell  them  that  there  is  not  the  least  possibihty  of 
obtaining  the  object  stated  in  this  paper,  should  they  wait  ever 
so  long ;  therefore  let  them  go  about  their  business.' " 

I  now  thought  of  one  more  expedient ;  and,  taking  out  the 
manuscript  tract  the  emperor  threw  down,  I  handed  it  to  Mr. 
G.  '•  This  is  a  brief  view  of  the  Christian  religion.  Do 
you  present  it,  in  our  name,  to  Moung  Zah,  and  persuade  him 
to  read  it,  or  hear  it  read.  We  have  indeed  no  hope  of  its 
efficacy ;  but  it  is  our  last  resort,  and  God  may  help  us  in  tlie 
extremity."  He  took  it  with  some  feeling,  and  promised  to  do 
his  best. 

Before  leaving  us,  he  communicated  the  important  intelli- 
gence that  the  emperor,  flushed  with  his  late  victory  over  the 
Kathays,  had  determined  on  war  with  Siam,  and  intended 
next  fall  to  march  in  person  to  Pegu,  and  there  establish 
his  head  quarters. 

After  Mr.  G.  left  us,  we  went  to  visit  Mr.  R.  We  were 
formerly  acquainted  with  him  in  Rangoon,  and  he  would  now 
have  assisted  us  had  he  not  been  out  of  the  favor  of  the  new 
emperor.  We  related  all  our  proceedings,  and  the  disappoint- 
ment of  our  hopes.  "  I  knew  it  would  be  so,"  replied  he,  "  when 
you  first  called  on  me  ;  but  I  was  not  wiHing  to  discourage 
you  from  making  trial  for  yourselves."     He  then  related  the 


260  MEMOlll    OF    DK.    JUDSOX. 

following  story,  with  the  substance  of  which  we  were  previously 
acquainted :  — 

"  About  fifteen  years  ago,  the  Roman  Catholic  priests  con- 
verted to  their  faith  a  Burman  teacher  of  talents  and  distinc- 
tion. They  took  great  pains  to  indoctrinate  him  thoroughly 
in  their  religion,  and  entertained  great  hope  of  his  usefulness 
in  their  cause.  After  his  return  from  Rome,  whither  they 
had  sent  him  to  complete  his  Christian  education,  he  was 
accused  by  his  nephew,  a  clerk  in  the  high  court  of  the 
empire,  of  having  renounced  the  established  religion.  The 
emperor,  who,  it  must  be  remembered,  was  far  from  approving 
the  religion  of  Boodh,  ordered  that  he  should  be  compelled  to 
recant.  The  nephew  seized  his  uncle,  cast  him  into  prison 
and  fetters,  caused  him  to  be  beaten  and  tortured  continually, 
and  at  length  had  recourse  to  the  torture  of  the  iron  mall. 
With  this  instrument  he  was  gradually  beaten,  from  the  ends 
of  his  feet  up  to  his  breast,  until  his  body  was  httle  else  but 
one  livid  wound.  Mr.  R.  was  one  of  those  that  stood  by  and 
gave  money  to  the  executioners,  to  niduce  them  to  strike 
gently.  At  every  blow,  the  sufferer  pronounced  the  name  of 
Christ,  and  declared  afterwards  that  he  felt  little  or  no  pain. 
When  he  was  at  the  point  of  death,  under  the  hands  of  his 
tormentors,  some  persons  who  pitied  his  case  went  to  the 
emperor  with  a  statement  that  he  was  a  madman,  and  knew 
not  what  he  was  about;  on  which  the  emperor  gave  orders  for 
his  release.  The  Portuguese  took  him  away,  concealed  him 
until  he  was  able  to  move,  then  sent  him  privately  in  a  boat  to 
Rangoon,  and  thence  by  ship  to  Bengal,  where  he  finished  his 
days.  Since  then,  the  Roman  priests,  of  whom  there  are 
four  only  in  the  country,  have  done  nothing  in  the  way  of 
proselyting,  but  confined  their  labors  to  their  own  flocks,  which 
are  composed  of  the  descendants  of  foreigners.  The  man 
who  accused  his  uncle  is  now  the  rery  first  of  the  private 
ministers  of  state,  taking  rank  before  Moung  Zah.  Further- 
more, the  present  chief  queen,  who  has  great  influence  with 
his  majesty,  is,  and  ever  has  been,  particularly  attaclied  to  tlie 
religion  and  the  priests  of  Boodh."  INlr.  R.  also  conflrmed  the 
information  we  had  received  of  apj) reaching  war  with  Siara. 


RETUKN    TO    KANGOOX.  261 

Our  case  could  not  be  more  desperate.  "We  directly 
returned  to  the  boat,  and  ordered  our  people  to  sell  off  all 
unnecessary  articles,  and  be  ready  to  start  as  soon  as  our 
passport  could  be  obtained. 

February  1.  Went  to  Mya-day-men,  and  applied  for  a 
passport  to  Rangoon.  He  appeared  willing  to  oblige  us,  but 
said  we  must  make  formal  application  to  Moung  Zah. 

February  2.  Went  to  various  places,  and  made  various 
inquiries  and  applications  for  a  passport.  Ascertained  that  it 
was  absolutely  necessary,  in  our  case,  to  procure  a  special  one 
from  the  high  court  of  the  empire. 

February  3.  Sent  our  head  man  and  some  of  our  people 
with  a  petition  to  Moung  Zah.  After  they  had  gone  off,  we 
called  on  Mr.  G.  He  informed  us  that  the  tract  had  been 
presented  to  Moung  Zah,  and  read  in  his  presence.  After 
listening  to  the  whole  of  it,  mstead  of  throwing  it  down,  or 
even  returning  it,  he  committed  it  to  one  of  his  people  to  keep, 
saying  to  Mr.  G.,  "The  doctrines  and  commands  are  very 
good ;  but  it  will  be  a  long  time  before  Burmans  can  be  con- 
vinced that  there  is  a  God  and  Saviour."  After  this  inter- 
view with  Moung  Zah,  Mr,  G.  was  summoned  before  the 
emperor.  His  majesty,  among  other  things,  inquired  about 
the  foreign  teachers.  Mr.  G.  told  him  our  country,  our  char- 
acter, and  our  object.  The  emperor  observed  that  the 
Portuguese  priest  had  told  him  very  different  things,  par- 
ticularly that  we  were  a  sect  of  Zandees,  (a  race  very 
obnoxious  to  former  emperors.)  Mr.  G.  endeavored  to  vin- 
dicate our  character,  but  the  emperor  appeared  quite  averse 
to  hearing  any  thing  in  our  favor.  "  What,"  said  he,  laughing, 
"  they  have  come  presuming  to  convert  us  to  their  religion. 
Let  them  leave  our  capital.  We  have  no  desire  to  receive 
their  instructions.  Perhaps  they  may  find  some  of  tlieir 
countrymen  in  Rangoon  who  may  be  willing  to  listen  to 
them." 

Mr.  G.  now  advised  us  to  obtain  a  royal  order  protecting  us 
personally  from  molestation,  while  we  should  remain  in  the 
country.   "  Otherwise,"  said  he,  "  as  it  will  be  notorious  that  you 


262  MEMOIU    OF    Dll.    JUDSON. 

have  solicited  royal  patronage,  and  been  refused,  you  will  lie 
at  the  mercy  of  every  ill-disposed  person." 

This  suggestion  of  Mr.  G.  occupied  our  thoughts  the  rest 
of  the  day.  We  finally  concluded  that,  as  such  an  order 
would  cost  several  hundred  ticals,  we  would  prefer  trusting 
in  the  Lord  to  keep  us  and  our  poor  disciples. 

At  night  our  people  returned.  They  had  found  Moung 
Zah,  and  presented  the  petition  for  a  passport,  to  which  he 
made  no  other  reply  but,  "  Come  to-morrow." 

February  4.  Sent  the  people,  early  in  the  moniing,  with  a 
handsome  present  to  Moung  Zah.  They  returned  late  at 
night.  He  accepted  the  present,  and  assured  them  he  would 
do  our  business  to-morrow. 

February  5.  Sent  the  people  as  usual,  our  trusty  Moung 
Nau  accompanying  them,  with  a  quantity  of  silver.  This  did 
the  business.  Late  in  the  evening  I  had  the  pleasure  of  tak- 
ing into  my  hand  the  pointed  palm  leaf.  It  has  cost  us  the 
value  of  thirty  dollars. 

February  6.  Pushed  off  from  the  beach  of  0-ding-man. 
I  could  moralize  half  an  hour  on  the  apt  resemblance,  the 
beautiful  congruity,  between  the  desolate  state  of  our  feelings 
and  tlie  sandy,  barren  surface  of  this  miserable  beach.  But 
*^ 'tis  idle  all."  Let  the  beach  and  our  sorrow  go  together. 
Something  better  will  turn  up  to-morrow. 

February  12.  Reached  Pyee,  two  hundred  and  thirty 
miles  from  Ava ;  our  descent  on  the  river  being,  of  course, 
much  more  rapid  than  our  ascent.  Here,  to  our  great  surprise, 
we  met  with  the  teacher  Moung  Shwa-gnong.  He  had  come 
up  from  Rangoon,  a  few  days  ago,  to  visit  an  old  acquaintance, 
who  was  dangerously  ill;  expects  to  return  shortly;  would 
gladly  go  Math  us,  if  we  could  wait  a  day  or  two.  We  stated 
to  him  all  our  adventures  at  court,  the  distressing  result  of  the 
expedition,  and  the  present  danger  of  propagating  or  pro- 
fessing the  religion  of  Christ,  and  wound  off  with  the  story  of 
the  iron  mall.  He  appeared  to  be  less  affected  and  intimi- 
dated by  the  relation  than  we  could  have  expected.  Lideed, 
his  language  was  rather  too  high  for  the  occasion.     I  therefore 


RETURN    TO    RANGOON.  2G3 

told  him  that  it  was  not  for  him  that  we  were  concerned,  but 
for  those  who  had  become  disciples  of  Christ.  When  they 
were  accused  and  persecuted,  they  could  not  worship  at  the 
pagodas,  or  recant  before  the  Mangen  teacher.  He  felt  the 
force  of  the  reflection,  and  tried  to  explain  his  past  conduct. 
"  Say  nothing,"  said  I ;  "  one  thing  you  know  to  be  true  —  that, 
when  formerly  accused,  if  you  had  not,  in  some  way  or  other, 
satisfied  the  mind  of  the  Mangen  teacher,  your  life  would  not 
now  be  remaining  in  your  body."  "  Then,"  said  he,  "  if  I  must 
die,  I  shall  die  in  a  good  cause.  I  know  it  is  the  cause  of 
truth."  He  then  repeated,  with  considerable  emphasis,  the 
most  prominent  points  of  his  present  faith,  as  follows:  "i 
believe  in  the  eternal  God,  in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  in  the  atone- 
ment which  Christ  has  made,  and  in  the  writings  of  the  apos- 
tles, as  the  true  and  only  word  of  God.  Perhaps,"  continued 
he,  "  you  may  not  remember  that,  during  one  of  my  last  visits, 
you  told  me,  that  I  was  trusting  in  my  own  understanding, 
rather  than  the  divine  word.  From  that  time  I  have  seen  my 
error,  and  endeavored  to  renounce  it.  You  explained  to  me 
also  the  evil  of  v/orshipping  at  pagodas,  though  I  told  you  that 
my  heart  did  not  partake  in  the  worship.  Since  you  left 
Rangoon,  I  have  not  lifted  up  my  folded  hands  before  a  pa- 
goda. It  is  true,  I  sometimes  follow  the  crowd,  on  days  of 
worship,  in  order  to  avoid  persecution ;  but  I  walk  up  one  side 
of  the  pagoda,  and  walk  down  the  other.  Xow,  you  say  that 
I  am  not  a  disciple.  What  lack  I  yet  ?  "  I  was  now  satisfied 
that  he  had  made  a  little  advance,  since  our  last  interview, 
which  required  a  corresponding  advance  on  my  side.  I  re- 
plied, therefore,  "  Teacher,  you  may  be  a  disciple  of  Christ  in 
heart,  but  you  are  not  a  full  disciple.  You  have  not  faith  and 
resolution  enough  to  keep  all  the  commands  of  Christ,  partic- 
ularly that  which  requires  you  to  be  baptized,  though  in  the 
face  of  persecution  and  death.  Consider  the  words  of  Jesus, 
just  before  he  returned  to  heaven,  '  He  that  beUeveth  and  is 
baptized  shall  be  saved.'  "  He  received  this  communication  in 
profound  silence,  and  with  that  air  which  I  have  observed  to 
come  upon  him  when  he  takes  a  thing  into  serious  considera- 


2G1  MEMOIR    OF    I)K.   JUDSON. 

tion.  Soon  after,  I  hinted  onr  intention  of  leaving  Rangoon, 
since  tlie  emperor  had  virtually  prohibited  the  propagation  of 
the  Christian  religion,  and  no  Burman,  under  such  circum- 
stances, would  dare  to  investigate,  much  less  to  embrace  it. 
This  intelligence  evidently  roused  him,  and  showed  us  that  we 
had  more  interest  in  his  heart  than  we  thought.  "  Say  not 
so,"  said  he  ;  "  there  are  some  who  will  investigate,  notwith- 
standing ;  and  rather  than  have  you  quit  Rangoon,  I  will  go 
myself  to  the  Mangen  teacher,  and  have  a  public  dispute.  I 
know  I  can  silence  him.  I  know  the  truth  is  on  my  side." 
"  Ah,"  said  I,  "  you  may  have  a  tongue  to  silence  him,  but  he  has 
a  pair  of  fetters  and  an  iron  mall  to  tame  you.  Remember 
that."  This  was  the  substance  of  our  conversation,  though 
much  more  prolix  ;  and  he  left  us  about  nine  o'clock  at  night. 

This  interview  furnished  matter  for  conversation  till  past 
midnight,  and  kept  us  awake  much  of  the  remainder  of  the 
night.  Perhaps,  on  arriving  in  Rangoon,  we  shall  find  the 
disciples  firm,  and  some  others  seriously  inquiring.  Perhaps 
we  shall  discover  some  appearances  of  a  movement  of  the 
divine  Spirit.  Perhaps  the  Lord  Jesus  has  a  few  chosen 
ones,  whom  he  intends  to  call  in,  under  the  most  unpropitious 
and  forbidding  circumstances.  Perhaps  he  intends  to  show 
that  it  is  not  by  might,  nor  by  powder,  but  by  his  Spirit.  In  a 
word,  perhaps,  in  the  last  extremity,  God  will  help  us.  Ought 
we,  then,  hastily  to  forsake  the  place  ?  Ought  we  to  desert 
those  of  the  disciples  that  we  cannot  take  with  us,  and  some 
others,  for  whom  perhaps  Christ  died,  in  such  an  interesting 
crisis  of  their  fate  ?  Would  it  be  rashness  to  endeavor  to 
trust  in  God,  and  maintain  the  post,  though  disallowed  by 
government,  and  exposed  to  persecution  ?  But  again  :  can  we 
bear  to  see  our  dear  disciples  in  prison,  in  fetters,  under  tor- 
ture ?  Can  we  stand  by  them,  and  encourage  them  to  bear 
patiently  the  rage  of  their  persecutors  ?  Are  we  willing  to 
participate  wuth  them  ?  Though  the  spirit  may  be  sometimes 
almost  willing,  is  not  the  flesh  too  weak  ? 

Pondering  on  such  topics  as  these,  a  little  ray  of  hope 
seemed  to  shine  out  of  the  darkness  of  our  despair.     But  it 


MEETING    WITH    THE    DISCIPLES.  2G5 

was  not  like  the  soft  beam  of  the  moon,  wliich  kindly  shines 
on  the  path  of  the  benighted  pilgrim,  and  guides  him  to  a 
place  of  shelter.  It  was  rather  like  the  angry  gleam  of  light- 
ning, which,  while  for  a  moment  it  illumines  the  landscape 
around,  discloses  the  black  magazines  of  heaven's  artillery, 
and  threatens  death  to  the  unwary  gazer. 

February  18.     Arrived  in  Rangoon. 

February  20,  Lord's  day.  In  the  evening  I  called  the  three 
disciples  together,  and  gave  them  a  connected  account  of  the 
affair  at  Ava,  that  they  might  have  a  full  understanding  of 
the  dangers  of  their  present  condition,  and  the  reasons  of  our 
intended  departure  from  Rangoon.  We  expected  that,  after 
being  destitute  of  all  the  means  of  grace  for  some  time,  and 
after  seeing  their  teachers  driven  away  from  the  presence  of 
their  monarch  in  disgrace,  they  would  become  cold  in  their 
affections,  and  have  but  little  remaining  zeal  for  a  cause  thus 
proscribed  and  exposed  to  persecution.  We  thought  that,  if 
one  out  of  the  three  remained  firm,  it  was  as  much  as  we 
could  reasonably  hope  for.  But  how  delightfully  were  we  dis- 
appointed !  They  all,  to  a  man,  appeared  immovably  the 
same  ;  yea,  i-ather  advanced  in  zeal  and  energy.  They  vied 
with  each  other  in  trying  to  explain  away  diHiculties,  and  to 
convince  us  that  the  cause  was  not  yet  quite  desperate.  But 
whither  are  the  teachers  going  ?  was,  of  course,  an  anxious 
inquiry.  We  told  them  that  it  was  our  intention  never  to 
desert  Burmah ;  but  that,  since  the  emperor  had  refused  to 
tolerate  our  religion,  we  thought  it  necessaiy  to  leave  for 
a  time  those  parts  of  the  empire  which  are  immediately 
under  his  dominion  ;  that  there  is  a  tract  of  country  lying 
between  Bengal  and  Arracan,  which,  though  under  the  gov- 
ernment of  Bengal,  is  chiefly  inhabited  by  AiTacanese,  who 
speak  a  language  similar  to  the  Burman,  the  district  being 
really  a  part  of  Arracan,  one  component  part  of  the  present 
Burman  empire  ;  that  formerly  a  teacher  from  Bengal  (De 
Bruyn)  lived  at  Chittagong,  the  principal  town  in  that  district, 
and  baptized  several  converts,  who,  at  his  death,  were  left 
destitute  of  all  instruction  to  the  present  time  ;  and  that,  in 
VOL.  I.  23  - 


2GG  JMEMOIll    OF    Dll.    JUDSOX. 

view  of  these  considerations,  it  was  cur  purpose  to  proceed 
thither,  in  hope  of  finding  that  toleration  which  was  denied  us 
in  Rangoon.  We  then  asked  them,  severally,  what  they 
would  do.  Moung  Nau  had  previously  told  us  that  he  would 
follow  us  to  any  part  of  the  world.  lie  was  only  afraid  that 
he  should  be  a  burden  to  us  ;  for,  not  being  acquainted  with 
another  language,  he  might  not  be  able  to  get  his  living  in  a 
strange  land.  "  As  for  me,"  said  Moung  Thahlah,  "  I  go 
where  preaching  is  to  be  had."  Moung  Bya  was  silent  and 
thoughtful.  At  last  he  said  that,  as  no  Burman  woman  is 
allowed  to  leave  the  country,  he  could  not,  on  account  of  his 
wife,  follow  the  teachers.  "  But,"  continued  he,  with  some 
pathos,  "  if  I  must  be  left  here  alone,  I  shall  remain  perform- 
ing the  duties  of  Jesus  Christ's  religion ;  no  other  shall  I  think 
of."  This  interview  with  the  disciples  rejoiced  our  hearts, 
and  caused  us  to  praise  God  for  the  grace  which  he  has  man- 
ifested to  them. 

February  24.  We  have  spent  three  or  four  days  in  inquir- 
ing about  Chittagong,  and  the  prospect  of  getting  a  passage 
directly  thither,  or  by  the  way  of  Bengal. 

This  evening  Moung  Bya  came  up  with  his  brother-in-law, 
Moung  Myat-yah,  who  has  lived  in  our  yard  several  months, 
and  formerly  attended  worship  in  the  zayat.  "  I  have  come," 
said  Moung  Bya,  "  to  petition  that  you  will  not  leave  Rangoon 
at  present."  "  I  think,"  replied  I,  "  that  it  is  useless  to  re- 
main under  present  circumstances.  We  cannot  open  the  zayat ; 
we  cannot  have  public  worship  ;  no  Burman  will  dare  to 
examine  this  rehgion  ;  and  if  none  examine,  none  can  be  ex- 
pected to  embrace  it."  "  Teacher,"  said  he,  '"'  my  mind  is 
distressed ;  I  can  neither  eat  nor  sleep,  since  I  find  you  are 
going  away.  I  have  been  around  among  those  who  live  near 
us,  and  I  find  some  who  are  even  now  examining  the  new 
religion.  Brother  Myat-yah  is  one  of  them,  and  he  unites 
with  me  in  my  petitions."  Here  Myat-yah  assented  that  it 
was  so.  "  Do  stay  with  us  a  few  months.  Do  stay  till  there 
are  eight  or  ten  disciples  ;  then  appoint  one  to  be  the  teacher 
of  the  rest ;  I  shall  not  be  concerned  about  the  event ;  though 


OCCUPANCY    OF    CIIITTAGOXG.  267 

you  should  leave  the  country,  the  religion  ^vill  spread  of 
itself;  the  emperor  himself  cannot  stop  it.  But  if  you  go 
now,  and  take  the  two  disciples  that  can  follow,  I  shall  be  left 
alone.  I  cannot  baptize  those  who  may  wish  to  embrace  this 
religion.  What  can  I  do  ?  "  Moung  Nau  came  in,  and  ex- 
pressed himself  in  a  similar  way.  He  thought  that  several 
would  yet  become  disciples,  in  spite  of  all  opposition,  and  that 
it  was  best  for  us  to  stay  a  while.  We  could  not  restrain  our 
tears  at  hearing  all  this  ;  and  we  told  them  that  as  we  lived 
only  for  the  promotion  of  the  cause  of  Christ  among  the 
Burmans,  if  there  was  any  prospect  of  success  in  Rangoon, 
we  had  no  desire  to  go  to  another  place,  and  would,  therefore, 
reconsider  the  matter. 

February  26.  Moung  Shwa-boo,  a  sedate  and  pleasant 
man,  who  came  to  live  in  our  yard,  just  before  we  went  to 
Ava,  accompanied  Moung  Myat-yah  to  the  usual  evening 
worship.  When  we  were  about  breaking  up,  Moung  Thahlah 
began  conversation,  by  saying,  "Teacher,  your  intention 
of  going  away  has  filled  us  all  with  trouble.  Is  it  good  to 
forsake  us  thus  ?  Notwithstanding  present  difficulties  and 
dangers,  it  is  to  be  remembered  that  this  work  is  not  yours 
or  ours,  but  the  work  of  God.  If  he  give  light,  the  religion 
will  spread.  Nothing  can  impede  it."  After  conversing  some 
time,  I  found  that  Moung  Louk,  another  inhabitant  of  the 
yard,  had  been  listening  without.  Accordingly,  he  was  invited 
to  take  his  seat  with  the  inquirers.  Moung  Bya  now  began  to 
be  in  earnest ;  his  arm  was  elevated,  and  his  eyes  brightened. 
"  Let  us  all,"  said  he,  "  make  an  effort.  As  for  me,  I  will 
pray.  Only  leave  a  little  church  of  ten,  with  a  teacher  set 
over  them,  and  I  shall  be  fully  satisfied."  Moung  Nau  took 
a  very  active  part  in  the  conversation.  The  three  new  ones 
said  nothing,  except  that  they  were  desirous  of  considering 
the  religion  of  Christ.  None  of  them,  however,  was  willing 
to  admit  that,  as  yet,  he  believed  any  thing. 

We  felt  that  it  was  impossible  for  us  all  to  leave  these 
people,  in  these  interesting  circumstances ;  and,  at  the  same 
tune,  we  felt  it  very  important  that  Chittagong  should  not  be 


2G8  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

neglected.  Under  these  circumstances,  we  came  to  the  con- 
clusion that  brother  Colman  should  j^i'oceed  immediately  to 
Chittagong,  collect  the  Arracanese  converts,  and  form  a  station 
to  which  new  missionaries  from  the  board  may  at  first  repair, 
and  to  which  I  may  ultimately  flee,  with  those  of  the  disciples 
that  can  leave  the  country,  when  we  find  that  persecution  is  so 
violent  as  to  suppress  all  further  inquiry,  and  render  it  useless 
and  rash  to  remain  ;  that  I  should  remain  in  Rangoon  until 
the  state  of  things  becomes  thus  desperate,  and  then  endeavor 
to  join  brother  Colman  in  Chittagong ;  but  that  if,  contrary 
to  our  expectation,  the  Rangoon  station  should,  after  a  lapse 
of  several  months,  appear  to  be  tenable,  and  that  for  an 
indefinite  time,  and  some  work  be  evidently  going  on,  brother 
Colman,  after  settling  one  or  two  missionaries  in  Chittagong, 
to  keep  that  place,  should  rejoin  me  in  Rangoon. 

February  27,  Lord's  day.  Had  private  worship  in  the 
zayat  —  the  front  doors  closed  —  none  present  but  the  dis- 
ciples and  inquirers. 

February  28.  A  visit  from  Moung  Shwa-gnong.  He  had 
considered,  he  said,  my  last  words  —  that  one  must  believe  and 
be  baptized  in  order  to  be  a  full  disciple.  It  was  his  desire  to 
be  such,  and  he  wanted  to  know  what  outward  rules  in 
])articular  he  must  observe  in  case  he  should  become  a  professor. 
I  told  him  that  the  disciples  of  Christ,  after  baptism,  were 
associated  together;  that  they  assembled  every  Lord's  day 
for  worship,  and  that  from  time  to  time  they  received  the 
sacrament  of  bread  and  wine.  I  then  Avarned  him  of  the 
danger  of  self-deception,  and  of  the  persecution  to  which 
disciples  were  exposed  in  this  country,  and  advised  him  to 
reconsider  the  matter  most  thoroughly,  before  he  made  a 
definite  request  for  baptism. 

After  he  had  gone,  Oo  Yan  (mentioned  December  19) 
came  in  —  was  disappointed  in  not  finding  Moung  Shwa- 
gnong,  having  agreed  to  meet  him  at  the  mission  house.  We 
had  a  long  conversation  on  doctrinal,  points,  in  which  he 
discovered  a  very  acute,  discriminating  mind. 

March    2.      Another  visit    from    Oo    Yan.      Venture    to 


CONFEUENCE    WITH    THE    DlbOll'LES.  269 

indulge  a  little  hope  that  truth  is  beginning  to  operate  on 
his  mind. 

March  5,  Lord's  day.  Private  worship,  as  last  Lord's  day. 
In  the  evening  received  the  sacrament  of  bread  and  wine. 
Moung  Nan  was  not  present,  having  gone  on  a  visit  to 
Bau-lay,  his  native  place.  Had  a  refreshing  and  happy  season 
with  the  two  other  disciples.  Two  of  the  inquirers  were 
spectators. 

March  8.  In  the  evening  had  a  very  pleasant  and  instruc- 
tive conference  with  the  disciples  and  inquirers.  Moung 
Tliahlah  appeared  to  great  advantage.  Took  the  lead  in 
explaining  truth  to  the  new  ones,  and  quoted  Scripture  with 
singular  facility  and  aptness.  He  has  most  evidently  very 
correct  views  of  the  doctrines  of  grace.  Moung  Myat-yah 
appears  to  begin  to  discern  the  excellence  of  the  Christian 
system,  and  to  have  some  right  feelings  towards  the  Saviour. 

March  10.  Moung  Shwa-gnong  and  Oo  Yan  have  been 
with  me  several  hours,  but  the  interview  has  afforded  very 
little  encouragement.  The  former  said  but  little  on  his  own 
account,  appearing  chiefly  desirous  of  convincing  and  per- 
suading his  friend,  that  he  might  gain,  as  I  secretly  suspected, 
some  companion  of  his  own  rank  in  life,  before  he  embraced 
the  new  religion.  The  latter  acted  on  the  defensive,  and 
spent  all  his  time  in  raising  objections.  He  was  ready  to 
admit  that  the  atheistic  system  of  the  Boodhists  was  not 
tenable,  but  endeavored  to  fortify  himself  on  a  middle  system 
between  that  and  the  Christian  —  the  very  system  in  which 
Moung  Shwa-gnong  formerly  rested,  and  which,  for  distinc- 
tion's sake,  may  be  fitly  termed  the  semi-atheistic.  Its  funda- 
mental doctrine  is,  that  divine  wisdom,  not  concentrated  in 
any  existing  spirit,  or  embodied  in  any  form,  but  diffused 
throughout  the  universe,  and  partaken  in  different  degrees  by 
various  intelligences,  and  in  a  very  high  degree  by  the 
Boodhs,  is  the  true  and  only  God.  This  poor  system,  which 
is  evidently  guilty  of  suicide,  Oo  Yan  made  every  possible 
effort  to  keep  alive ;  but  I  really  think  that  in  his  own  mind 

he  felt  the  case  to  be  hopeless.     His  mode   of  reasoning  is, 

23.. 


270  ME.AIOIU    OL^    Dll.    .lUDSUN. 

however,  soft,  insinuating,  and  acute,  and  so  adroitly  did 
he  act  his  part,  that  Moung  Shwa-gnong,  with  his  strong  arm, 
and  I  with  the  strength  of  truth,  were  scarcely  able  to  keep 
him  down. 

March  13.  The  teacher  and  Oo  Yan,  with  two  of  their 
friends,  came  and  spent  several  hours.  The  former  staid  later 
than  the  others,  and  attended  evening  worship.  I  asked  him 
whether  there  was  any  point  in  the  Christian  system  on  which 
he  had  not  obtained  satisfaction.  He  replied  that  he  was  not 
yet  satisfied  as  to  the  propriety  of  God's  appointing  one  par- 
ticular day  in  the  week  for  assembling  together,  in  distinction 
from  all  other  days.  I  saw  at  once  why  he  has  always  been 
so  remiss  in  attending  worship  on  the  Lord's  day ;  and  I 
therefore  proceeded  to  state  the  nature  of  positive  commands, 
and  their  peculiar  excellence,  as  the  best  test  of  obedience ; 
that  it  was  evidently  beneficial  for  the  disciples  of  Christ  to 
assemble  sometimes  ;  that  God,  in  appointing  that  such  an 
assembly  should  be  held  at  least  one  day  in  seven,  must  be 
supposed  to  be  guided  by  wisdom  infinitely  transcending  that 
of  man ;  that,  if  the  disciples  of  Christ  are  to  meet  once  at 
least  in  seven  days,  it  is  evidently  best  to  have  the  day  of 
meeting  designated,  in  order  to  secure  their  general  union  and 
concert ;  and  that  the  first  day  of  the  week  had  at  least  this 
claim  to  preference,  that  it  is  the  day  on  which  our  Saviour 
rose  from  the  dead.  I  descanted  on  these  points  to  his  appar- 
ent satisfiiction  ;  but  let  us  see  whether  he  will  come  next 
Lord's  day. 

Later  in  the  evening  had  an  instructive  conference  witli 
Moung  Myat-yah  and  Moung  Shwa  Boo.  They  both  appear 
to  have  oljtained  some  of  that  light,  which,  like  the  dawn  of 
morning,  shincth  more  and  more  unto  perfect  day. 

March  15.  Another  visit  from  the  teacher,  accompanied 
with  his  wife  and  child.  Again  discussed  the  necessity  of  as- 
sembling on  the  Lord's  day.  Found  that  the  sacraments  of 
baptism  and  the  supper  are,  in  his  mind,  liable  to  similar  objec- 
tions. Forsook,  therefore,  all  human  reasoning,  and  rested 
the  merits  of  the  case  on  the  bare  authority  of  Christ.     ''Ye 


CONVKliSATlUN     WITH    l^NC^UlllKKS.  271 

are  my  friends  if  ye  do  whatsoever  I  command  you."  Not- 
withstanding the  remains  of  his  deistical  spirit,  however,  I  ob- 
tained, during  this  visit,  more  satisfactory  evidence  of  his  real 
conversion  than  ever  before.  He  said  that  he  knew  nothing 
of  an  eternally  existing  God  before  he  met  with  me ;  that,  on 
lieariug  that  doctrine,  he  instantly  believed  it,  but  that  it  was 
a  long  time  before  he  closed  with  Christ.  "  Can  you  recollect 
the  time  ?  "  said  I.  "  Not  precisely,"  he  replied,  "  but  it  was 
during  a  visit,  when  you  discoursed  concerning  the  Trinity,  the 
divine  worship  of  Jesus,  and  the  great  sufferings  which  he, 
though  truly  God,  endured  for  his  disciples."  He  afterwards 
spoke,  with  much  Christian  feeling,  on  the  preciousness  of  the 
last  part  of  the  sixth  chapter  of  Matthew,  which  he  heard 
me  read,  day  before  yesterday,  at  evening  worship. 

March  10,  Lord's  day.  Looked  in  vain  for  the  teacher  and 
his  acquaintances. 

March  21.  Moung  Thahlah  introduced  one  of  his  rela- 
tions, by  name  Moung  Shwa-ba,  as  desirous  of  considering  the 
Christian  religion.  Spent  an  hour  or  two  in  conversing  with 
him.  He  was  afterwards  present  at  evening  worship,  and  staid 
(o  converse  after  the  rest  had  retired. 

March  22.  Another  conversation  with  Moung  Shwa-ba. 
He  a])pears  to  be  under  deep  religious  impressions.  His  lan- 
guage and  his  looks  evince  an  uncommon  solemnity  of  spirit  — 
an  earnest  desire  to  be  saved  from  the  wrath  to  come.  After 
praying  with  him,  I  left  him  in  company  with  Moung  Thahlah. 

March  23.  In  the  morning,  Moung  Thahlah  informed  me 
that  he  and  his  friend  had  sat  up  the  greater  part  of  tlie  night 
in  the  zayat,  reading,  and  conversing,  and  praying.  In  the  af- 
ternoon, Moung  Shwa-ba  came  in  himself.  His  expressions 
are  very  strong ;  but  I  have  no  reason  to  doubt  his  sincerity. 
It  only  seems  strange  to  us  that  a  work  of  grace  should  be 
carried  on  so  rapidly  in  the  soul  of  an  ignorant  heathen.  He 
presented  a  writing,  containing  a  statement  of  his  faith,  and 
an  urgent  request  to  be  baptized  next  Lord's  day. 

March  21.  Spent  all  the  evening  with  Moung  Shwa-ba. 
Feel  satisfied  that  he  has  experienced  a  work  of  divine  grace, 


272  MKMOIU    OK    Dll.    JLDSON. 

but  think  it  advisable  to  defer  his  baptism  till  Sunday  after 
next,  in  order  to  allow  him  full  time  to  reexamine  the  religion, 
and  the  foundation  of  his  hopes. 

March  2G,  Lord's  day.  Three  women  present  at  worship 
—  acquaintances  of  Moung  Shwa-gnong.  They  have  visited 
Mrs.  Judson  once  or  twice  before.  The  principal  of  them  re- 
nounced Gaudama  some  years  ago,  and  adopted  the  semi-athe- 
istic system,  but  without  obtaining  any  real  satisfaction.  Two 
years  ago,  she  met  with  a  copy  of  the  tract,  which  gave  her  an 
idea  of  an  eternally-existing  God  ;  but  she  knew  not  whence 
the  paper  came.  At  length,  Moung  Shwa-gnong  told  her 
that  he  had  found  the  true  wisdom,  and  directed  her  to  us. 
Her  case  appears  very  hopeful. 

In  the  evening,  after  worship,  had  a  protracted  conversa- 
tion with  the  disciples  and  inquirers,  on  account  of  brother 
Colman's  intended  departure  to-morrovf.  Moung  Shwa-ba 
appeared  very  well  indeed.  Moung  Myat-yah  said,  "  Set  me 
down  for  a  disciple.  I  have  fully  made  up  my  mind  in  re- 
gard to  this  religion.  I  love  Jesus  Christ ;  but  I  am  not  yet 
quite  ready  for  baptism."  After  we  dismissed  them,  the?/  ivent 
over  to  the  zayat  of  their  oion  accord,  and  held  a  'prayer 
meeting. 

And  here  I  must  close  my  journal.  We  have  spent  the  last 
evening  with  our  very  dear  brother  and  sister  Colman.  They 
expect  to  embark  to-morrow  morning.  Our  parting  is  mourn- 
ful ;  for  happy,  uncommonly  happy  has  been  our  past  inter- 
course. I^othing  but  a  sense  of  duty  could  force  the  present 
separation.  We  hope  that  it  will  be  of  short  duration,  and 
that  we  shall  soon  reunite  our  labors  in  Chittagong  or  Ran- 
goon. 

On  their  departure,  Mrs.  Judson  and  myself  Avill  again  be  left 
to  our  former  ''  loneliness  of  lot."  In  this  situation,  we  renew- 
cdly  commend  ourselves  to  tlie  remembrance  and  prayers  of 
the  l)oard. 

March  27.  Brother  and  sister  Colman  took  leave  of  us, 
and  embarked  for  Bengal. 

April  1.     In  the  evening  we  had  a  final  conversation  with 


OKUINANCKS    ADMINISTERED.  273 

Moung  Slnva-ba,  and  became  fully  satisfied  Avith  the  evidences 
of  his  conversion.  We  therefore  expressed  our  -willingness 
to  receive  him  into  church  fellowship,  and  I  announced  to 
him  my  intention  of  baptizing  him  to-morrovv^,  on  which  ho 
expressed  his  gratitude  and  joy. 

April  2,  Lord's  day.  At  night,  after  dark,  -we  went  pri- 
vately to  the  accustomed  pond,  and  baptized  the  new  disciple. 
Afterwards  sat  down  at  the  table  of  the  Lord  —  two  foreign 
and  four  native  communicants.  Three  inquirers  were  ad- 
mitted to  be  spectators. 

April  11.  A  visit  from  Oo  Yan,  accompanied  by  two  of 
his  friends  who  have  been  here  before.  Long  conversation 
on  topics  of  the  Christian  religion. 

April  14.  The  women  mentioned  March  26  spent  most  of 
the  day  with  Mrs.  Judson.  They  regularly  visit  her  about  once 
a  week.  I  mention  the  visit  of  to-day,  because  it  has  afforded 
pretty  satisfactory  evidence  that  the  principal  one  of  the  company, 
by  name  Mali  Men-la,  has  experienced  divine  grace.  Her 
husband  is  one  of  the  visitors,  who  came  with  Oo  Yan,  on 
the  11th. 

^  April  15.  Moung  Shwa-ba  has  for  some  days  been  talking 
of  a  visit  to  Shwa-doung,  his  native  place,  to  communicate 
the  treasure  which  he  has  found  to  his  numerous  relations  and 
friends.  This  evening,  after  expressing  his  desires,  he  said  it 
had  occurred  to  him  that  it  might  be  proper  to  ask  permission 
or  license  so  to  do.  Not  that  he  aspired  to  set  up  as  a 
teacher ;  far  from  that ;  but  he  wanted  to  feel  that,  in  commu- 
nicating the  gospel,  he  was  proceeding  in  a  regular  authorized 
manner.  He  thought  that,  if  two  or  three  disciples  could  be 
raised  up  in  each  of  the  large  towns,  it  would  much  facilitate 
our  operations.  He  was  sure  that  at  least  one  in  ten  of  his 
relations  and  friends,  on  hearing  his  story,  could  not  help  em- 
bracing the  new  religion.  I  secretly  exulted  at  hearing  his 
proposal,  so  evidently  the  result  of  Christian  principle,  and 
exhorted  him  to  constant  self-examination  and  prayer,  as  the 
means  of  discovering  his  own  duty  and  the  divine  will. 

April  16,  Lord's  day.     Early  in  the  morning  the  teacher 


274  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

Moung  Sliwa-gnong  came  in,  after  an  absence  of  just  a 
month.  He  was  soon  followed  by  Oo  Yan  and  his  two 
friends.  They  spent  the  whole  day  with  me.  All  appear 
hopefid.  The  teacher  remained,  as  usual,  after  the  others  had 
left,  and  thereby  afforded  me  an  opportunity  for  private  con- 
versation. He  admitted  that  all  his  objections  to  positive 
commands  were  removed,  and  that  it  was  his  desire  to  be  a 
full  disciple  ;  but,  when  urged  closely  on  the  subject,  he  inti- 
mated that  his  wife  and  friends  were  opposed  to  his  taking 
any  decided  step,  and  that,  if  he  did,  he  was,  moreover,  ex- 
posed to  imminent  danger  of  persecution  and  death.  He 
mentioned  these  things  with  so  much  feeling,  and  such  evident 
consciousness  of  simple  weakness,  as  completely  disarmed  me. 
My  heart  was  wrung  with  pity.  I  sincerely  sympathized 
with  him  in  his  evident  mental  trials.  I  could  not  deny  the 
truth  of  what  he  said,  but  gently  hinted,  as  thy  day  is,  thy 
strength  shall  be,  and  proposed  the  example  of  the  apostles 
and  martyrs,  the  glory  of  suffering  for  Christ,  &c.  But  the 
thought  of  the  iron  mall,  and  a  secret  suspicion  that,  if  I  was 
in  his  circumstances,  I  should  perhaps  have  no  more  courage, 
restrained  my  tongue.  We  parted  with  much  solemnity, 
understanding  one  another  better  than  ever  before.  I  shall 
not  probably  see  him  again  very  soon  ;  for  it  is  too  dangerous 
for  a  man  of  his  distinction  to  be  seen  coming  frequently  to 
the  mission  house. 

April  20.  Mah  Men-la  and  her  friends  have  been  with 
Mrs.  Judson  all  day.  She  gives  increasing  evidence  of  being 
a  real  disciple,  but  is  extremely  timid,  through  fear  of  perse- 
cution. One  of  her  remarks  deserves  notice,  as  a  natural 
expression  of  true  Christian  feeling.  "  I  am  surprised,"  said 
she,  "  to  find  this  religion  has  such  an  effect  on  my  mind  as  to 
make  me  love  the  disciples  of  Christ  more  than  my  dearest 
natural  relations."  She  is  a  woman  of  very  superior  discern- 
ment and  mental  energy.  One  of  the  women,  who  has  fre- 
quently accompanied  her  in  her  visits,  met  with  a  tract  at  Old 
Pegu  about  six  weeks  ago,  and  came  all  the  way  to  Kangoon, 
chiefly,  she  says,  on  that  account. 


CONVERSATION    AVITII    INQUlREIiS.  275 

This  day  I  have  finished  the  translation  of  the  Epistle  to 
the  Ephesians,  begun  before  I  went  to  Ava,  but  intermitted 
on  account  of  the  weakness  of  my  eyes.  It  is  with  real  joy 
that  I  put  this  precious  writing  into  the  hands  of  the  disciples. 
It  is  a  great  accession  to  their  scanty  stock  of  Scripture ;  for 
they  have  had  nothing  hitherto  but  Matthew.  Intend  to  give 
them  Acts  as  fast  as  my  eyes  will  allow. 

April  30,  Lord's  day.  One  of  the  busiest  days  I  have 
ever  spent.  Not  a  multitude  of  visitants,  as  formerly.  That 
we  cannot  expect  in  present  circumstances.  But,  besides  the 
usual  evening  assembly,  there  were  eight  or  ten  present  at 
worship,  some  of  whom  were  with  me  from  nine  in  the  morn- 
ing till  ten  at  night.  Mali  Men-la  and  her  company  were 
with  Mrs.  Judson,  who,  by  the  way,  has  had  a  serious  attack 
of  the  liver  complaint  for  a  fortnight  past,  and  is  now  in  a 
course  of  salivation. 

Oo  Yan,  after  having  searched  out  all  the  difficult  points 
of  religion,  came  to-day  to  the  ne  plus  ultra  —  How  are  sin 
and  eternal  misery  reconcilable  with  the  character  of  an  infi- 
nitely holy,  wise,  and  powerful  God  ?  He  at  length  obtained 
such  satisfaction  that  he  could  not  restrain  laughing,  from 
pure  mental  delight,  and  kept  recurring  to  the  subject,  and 
repeating  my  remarks  to  those  around  him.  He  was  accom- 
panied, as  usual,  by  his  two  friends,  Moung  Thah-a  and 
Moung  Myat-lah,  husband  of  Mah  Men-la.  With  these  came 
also  one  Moung  Yo,  a  disciple  of  Moung  Shwa-gnong,  a  poor 
man,  but  a  sharp  reasoner.  He  was,  or  pretended  to  be,  on 
the  semi-atheistic  plan.  (See  March  10.)  After  ascertaining 
his  precise  ground,  I  used  an  argument  which,  in  a  late  com- 
bat with  Oo  Yan,  I  found  quite  invincible.  It  is  simply. this  : 
"  No  mind,  no  wisdom  ;  temporary  mind,  temporary  wisdom  ; 
eternal  mind,  eternal  wisdom."  Now,  as  all  the  semi-atheists 
firmly  believe  in  eternal  wisdom,  this  concise  statement  sweeps 
with  irresistible  sway  through  the  very  joints  and  marrow  of 
their  system.  And,  though  it  may  seem  rather  simple  and 
inconclusive  to  one  unacquainted  with  Burman  reasoning,  its 
effect  is  uniformly  decisive.  No  sooner  is  this  short  sentence 
uttered  than  one   significantly  nods  his  head,  as  if  to  say. 


27G  mk:\ioir  of  dk.  judson. 

"  There  you  hrive  it."  Another  erics  out  to  the  opponent,  "  You 
are  undone,  destroyed."  Ano Jier  says,  "  Talk  about  wisdom  ! 
where  else  will  you  find  it?"  The  disputant  himself,  who  was 
perhaps  preparing  a  learned  speech  about  the  excellence,  and 
efRcacy,  and  eternity  of  wisdom,  quite  disconcerted  by  this 
unexpected  onset,  sits  looking  at  the  wreck  of  his  system,  and 
wondering  at  the  simple  means  which  has  spread  such  ruin 
around  him  ;  presently  he  looks  up,  (for  the  Burmans  are 
frequently  candid,)  and  says,  "  Your  words  are  very  appropri- 
ate ; "  and  perhaps  his  next  question  is,  "  How  can  I  become 
a  disciple  of  the  God  you  worship  ?  "  All  the  visitors  to-day, 
and,  indeed,  all  the  semi-atheists,  are  despisers  of  Gaudama 
and  the  established  religion  of  the  land.  Moung  Shvva-gnong 
has  disseminated  this  heresy  in  Rangoon  for  several  years  ; 
but  since  he  has  become  acquainted  with  us,  he  frequently 
tells  his  adherents,  "  I  know  nothing ;  if  you  want  true  wisdom, 
go  to  the  foreign  teacher,  and  there  you  will  find  it."  I  have 
reason  to  believe  that  this  heresy  is  not  confined  to  Rangoon, 
but  is  taking  root  in  various  parts  of  the  country,  and  prepar- 
ing the  way  for  the  Christian  religion.  O  for  toleration  —  a 
little  toleration  !  We  will  be  content  to  baptize  in  the  night, 
and  hold  worship  in  private  ;  but  we  do  pray  that  we  may 
not  be  utterly  banished  from  the  land ;  that  we  may  not  be 
cut  up,  root  and  branch.  O  that  these  poor  souls,  who  are 
groping  in  tlie  dark,  feeling  after  the  truth,  may  have  time 
and  opportunities  to  find  the  precious  treasure  which  will 
enrich  them  forevermore  !  We  are  all  looking  with  anxiety 
towards  the  golden  feet.  Our  viceroy,  Moung  Shwa-thah, 
has  gone  thither  on  a  visit ;  and  it  is  doubtful  whether  he  will 
return,  or  his  rival,  Mya-day-men.  If  the  latter,  there  is 
some  reason  to  hope  that  we  shall  keep  footing  in  Rangoon, 
at  least  during  his  administration. 

May  5.  Another  visit  from  Moung  Myat-lah  and  his  wife, 
which  has  afforded  us  good  reason  to  hope  that  he  also  has 
become  a  true  believer.  His  wife  appears  the  same  as  usual. 
They  are  both  gaining  courage  in  regard  to  an  open  profession 
of  the  Christian  religion,  and  begin  to  wonder  at  the  back- 
wardness of  their  former  oracle,  Moung  Shwa-gnong. 


1 


CONVEllSATION    WITH    IXQUIilERS.  277 

]May  8.  Moung  Tli;ili-a,  the  friend  of  Moung  Myat-lah, 
has  spent  most  of  tlie  day  with  ine,  and  given  equally  good 
evidence  of  being  a  true  disciple.  He  was  formerly  an  officer 
under  government,  and  amassed  considerable  property,  whicl 
he  mostly  spent  in  building  pagodas  and  making  ofFerin 
But  he  obtained  no  satisfaction,  found  no  resting-place  for  his 
soul,  until  he  became  acquainted  with  the  religion  of  Jesus. 
He  now  rests  in  this  religion,  with  conscious  security;  believes 
and  loves  all  that  he  hears  of  it,  and  prays  that  he  may  be- 
come fully  a  true  disciple  of  the  Saviour. 

Both  of  these  men  are  respectable  householders,  rather  above 
the  middling  class.  They  live  in  a  little  village  called  Nan- 
dau-gong,  about  half  a  mile  from  the  mission  house.  Moung 
]\Iyat-lah  has  a  large  family ;  but  Moung  Thali-a  has  none, 
and  were  it  not  for  an  aged  mother  who  dejDends  on  him,  he 
would  follow  me,  he  says,  throughout  the  world. 

i\Iay  12.  The  three  visiters  from  Nan-dau-gong  have  been 
with  us  part  of  the  day.  One  characteristic  trait  in  these 
people  is  a  particular  love  for  the  Scriptures.  They  almost 
quarrel  with  one  another  for  the  only  copy  of  the  Ephesians 
which  I  have  given  them,  and  I  therefore  determine  to  spare 
them  an.other  as  soon  as  it  is  done.  They  say  that  the  trans- 
lation of  this  Epistle  is  plainer,  and  more  easily  understood, 
tlian  that  of  Matthew,  which  is  very  encouraging  to  me,  as  I 
made  it  without  the  assistance  of  any  person,  not  even  a  Bur- 
man  teaclier.  jMy  old  teacher  went  to  Ava  some  months  ago, 
and  I  am  now  afraid  to  employ  another,  lest  he  should  become 
too  well  acquainted  with  the  disciples  and  inquirers,  and  be- 
tray them  to  government. 

May  14,  Lord's  day.  A  very  busy  day  with  the  Nan-dau- 
gong  visitors,  and  the  usual  evening  assembly. 

May  18.  Mah  Myat-lah  and  Mah  Doke,  wiio  have  fre- 
quently accompanied  their  relation  Mah  Men-la,  came  to-day 
by  themselves.  They  appear  to  be  under  solemn  religious 
impressions,  sensible  of  their  sin  and  danger,  and  anxious  to 
obtain  an  interest  in  the  Saviour,  but  are  yet  unenlightened 
in  regard  to  the  way.  Mah  Baik,  also,  sister  of  Moung 
VOL.  I.  24 


278  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

Thahlah,  who  formerly  afforded  us  some  encouragement,  but 
afterwards  fell  off,  has  recommenced  visiting  us.  We  hoj^e 
that  during  several  months'  confinement  she  has  not  in  vain 
meditated  on  the  truths  she  formerly  heard.  She  says  that 
her  mind  is  changed,  that  she  loves  the  Saviour,  and  trusts  in 
him  alone  for  salvation  from  sin  and  hell,  and  desires  to  be- 
come his  disciple  in  full  by  receiving  baptism.  Her  husband, 
Moung  Nyo-dwa,  and  Moung  Thah-yah,  another  resident  in 
our  yard,  whom  I  think  I  have  not  yet  mentioned,  are  con- 
stant attendants  on  evening  worship,  and  seem  to  be  making 
slow  advances  in  the  knowledge  and  love  of  divine  truth. 
Moung  Shwa-ba,  the  last  baptized,  begins  to  appear  to  great 
advantage ;  has  very  correct  ideas  of  the  gospel  system,  and 
communicates  truth  to  the  inquirers  with  much  feeling  and 
animation.  In  zeal  for  the  extension  of  the  Redeemer's 
kingdom,  he  surpasses  the  older  disciples.  This  is  the  man 
who,  from  not  knowing  that  there  was  such  a  being  in  the 
universe  as  a  God,  became  a  speculative  believer,  a  penitent, 
a  hopeful  recipient  of  grace,  and  a  candidate  for  baptism,  all 
in  the  space  of  three  days.  Some  of  the  above  mentioned 
have,  on  the  contrary,  been  several  months  in  making  similar 
attainments,  and  are  yet  found  wanting.  Thus  diverse  are 
the  operations  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 

June  16.  Received  letters  from  Bengal.  News  from 
Bombay  that  a  Mahometan  has  professed  the  gospel,  and 
from  Java  that  brother  Robinson  has  baptized  the  first  Chi- 
nese convert.  Thus  there  seems  to  be  a  beginning  in  several 
very  important  stations.  May  the  little  one  become  a  thou- 
sand. Rejoiced  to  hear  that  brother  Colman  had  safely 
arrived  at  Bengal,  and  embarked  on  a  boat  for  Chittagong, 
and  that  thus  far  he  had  not  met  with  any  molestation  or 
interruption  from  the  police.  May  he  get  a  footing  in  Chit- 
tagong, for  every  thing  here,  in  regard  to  toleration,  grows 
darker. 

June  27.  Mrs.  Judson,  after  having  been  through  two  courses 
of  salivation  for  the  liver  complaint,  at  length  despairs  of  re- 
covering without  some  proper  medical  assistance.     For  a  few 


FA-JLUKK    OF    MRS.    JUDSON's    HEALTH.  279 

days  we  have  hoped  that  she  would  get  some  relief  from  the 
various  applications  which  are  made,  though  at  the  expense  of 
an  almost  total  exhaustion  of  strength  ;  but  this  morning,  to 
our  utter  disappointment,  the  disorder  has  returned  with  in- 
creased violence,  and  her  constitution  appears  to  be  rapidly 
failing.  I  have  intended,  for  some  time  past,  to  send  her  alone 
to  Bengal ;  but  she  has  become  too  weak,  and  the  present 
circumstances  of  the  complaint  are  too  alarming,  to  allow  such 
a  measure,  and  I  have  therefore,  though  with  great  reluctance 
and  much  conflict  of  mind,  concluded  to  accompany  her  to 
Bengal.  We  have  a  special  inducement  to  embrace  the  op- 
portunity afforded  us  by  the  ship  which  lately  brought  our 
letters,  since,  if  we  reject  this,  we  shall  have  to  wait  several 
months  for  another  opportunity,  during  which  time  Mrs.  J. 
will,  in  all  probability,  be  placed  beyond  the  reach  of  medical 
assistance. 

July  9,  Lord's  day.  Moung  Nyo-dwa  and  Moung  Gway 
request  baptism.  We  have  had  a  good  hope  of  the  former 
for  some  time.  With  the  latter  we  arp  very  slightly  acquaint- 
ed, though  be  has  been  a  constant  attendant  on  evening  wor- 
ship for  nearly  two  months.  This  application,  hoAvever,  is 
approved  by  some  of  tlie  most  discerning  in  the  church.  The 
Nan-dau-gong  people  hope  that  they  shall  g<jt  grace  and  cour- 
age enough  to  profess  the  Christian  religion  by  the  time  I  re- 
turn from  Bengal. 

July  15.  Have  been  very  busy  all  the  past  week  in  getting 
ready  for  the  voyage.  In  procuring  a  governmental  passport, 
received  essential  assistance  from  Mr.  Lanciego,  a  Spaniard, 
the  present  collector  of  the  port,  and  one  of  the  chief  magis- 
trates of  the  place  during  the  absence  of  the  viceroy.  He  has 
also  promised  to  protect  the  people  whom  we  leave  on  the 
mission  premises. 

July  16,  Lord's  day.  A  few  days  ago  we  concluded  to 
receive  the  two  new  ap[)licants  for  ba[)tism  ;  but  I  thought  it 
most  prudent,  partly  by  way  of  trying  their  sincerity,  to  send 
them  a  message,  suggesting  that,  since  I  was  greatly  occupied 
in  getting  ready  for  sea,  and  since  one  of  them  was  not  so  well 


280  MEMOIR    OF    DK.   JUDSON. 

acquainted  with  the  doctrines  of  religion  as  was  desirable,  it 
might  be  better  to  defer  their  baptism  till  my  return. 

This  morning  they  came  up  in  much  trouble.  They  stated 
that,  as  they  had  fully  embraced  the  Christian  religion  in  their 
hearts,  they  could  not  remain  easy  without  being  baptized,  ac- 
cording to  the  command  of  Christ ;  that  no  man  could  tell 
whether  I  should  ever  return  or  not,  and  that  it  was  their  earnest 
petition,  that  if  I  could  possibly  find  time,  and  thought  them 
worthy  of  the  ordinance,  I  would  administer  it  to  them  before 
I  went  away.  They  did  not  wish  me  to  go  out  to  the  usual 
place,  as  that  was  at  some  distance,  but  would  be  baptized  in 
a  small  pond  near  the  mission  house.  Moung  Gway  said 
that,  though  he  was  very  ignorant,  he  knew  enough  of  this 
religion  to  love  it  sincerely,  and  to  trust  in  Christ  for  salva- 
tion from  all  his  sins.  I  reexamined  them  both,  stated  to 
them  the  great  danger  of  professing  a  foreign  religion,  &c.^ 
and,  on  their  urging  their  request,  told  them  I  would  baptize 
them  in  the  evening. 

Was  obliged  to  be  oui  all  the  afternoon,  getting  our  things 
aboard  the  ship,  as  we  expect  to  move  down  the  river  to- 
morrow morning.  At  night  baptized  the  two  new  disciples, 
after  which  we  all  partook  of  the  Lord's  supper  for  the  last 
time. 

July  17.  Ship  to  be  detained  tw^o  days.  In  the  forenoon, 
the  teacher  Moung  Shwa-gnong  came  in.  I  received  him 
Avith  some  reserve,  but  soon  found  that  he  had  not  staid  away 
so  long  from  choice,  having  been  ill  with  a  fever  for  some 
time,  and  occupied  also  with  the  illness  of  his  family  and  ad- 
herents. He  gradually  wore  away  my  reserve ;  and  we  had 
not  been  together  two  hours,  before  I  felt  more  satisfied  than 
ever,  from  his  account  of  his  mental  trials,  his  struggles  with 
sin,  his  strivings  to  be  holy,  his  penitence,  his  faith,  his  exer- 
cises in  secret  prayer,  that  he  is  a  subject  of  the  special  oper- 
ations of  the  Holy  Spirit,  that  he  is  indeed  a  true  disciple. 
lie  staid  all  day.  In  the  afternoon,  the  five  Nan-dau-goiig 
visitors,  the  doctor  Go  Yan,  and  several  others  came  together, 
and  we    had  much   interesting  conversation.      Towards  the 


ACCESSIONS    TO    THE    CHURCH.  281 

close,  Moung  Sliwa-giioiifr,  as  if  to  bring  things  to  a  crisis,  ad- 
dj-essed  me  thus  :  "  My  lord  teacher,  there  are  now  several  of 
us  present  who  have  long  considered  this  religion.  I  hope  that  we 
are  all  believers  in  Jesus  Christ."  "  I  am  afraid,"  replied  I,  "  to 
say  that ;  however,  it  is  easily  ascertained  ;  and  let  me  begin 
with  you,  teacher.  I  have  heretofore  thought  that  you  fully 
believed  iu  the  eternal  God  ;  but  I  have  had  some  doubt 
whether  you  fully  believed  in  the  Son  of  God,  and  the  atone- 
ment which  he  has  made."  "  I  assure  you,"  he  replied,  "  that 
I  am  as  fully  persuaded  of  the  latter  as  of  the  former."  "  Do 
you  believe,  then,"  I  continued,  "  that  none  but  the  disciples  of 
Christ  will  be  saved  from  sin  and  hell  ?  "  "  None  but  his 
disciples."  "  How,  then,  can  you  remain  without  taking  the 
oath  of  allegiance  to  Jesus  Christ,  and  becoming  his  full  dis- 
ciple in  body  and  soul  ?  "  "  It  is  my  earnest  desire  to  do  so, 
by  receiving  baptism ;  and  for  the  very  purpose  of  expressing 
that  desire,  I  have  come  here  to-day."  "  You  say  you  are 
desirous  of  receiving  baptism  :.  may  I  ask  when  you  desire  to 
receive  it  ?  "  "  At  any  time  you  will  please  to  give  it.  Now 
—  this  moment,  if  you  please."  "  Do  you  wish  to  receive 
baptism  in  public  or  in  private  ? "  "I  will  receive  it  at  any 
time,  and  in  any  circumstances,  that  you  please  to  direct."  I 
then  said,  "  Teacher,  I  am  satisfied  from  your  conversation  this 
forenoon,  that  you  are  a  true  disciple,  and  I  reply,  therefore, 
that  I  am  as  desirous  of  giving  you  baptism  as  you  are  of 
receiving  it."  This  conversation  had  a  great  effect  on  all 
present.  The  disci[)les  rejoiced ;  the  rest  were  astonished ; 
for  though  they  have  long  thought  that  he  believed  the  Chris- 
tian religion,  they  could  not  think  that  such  a  man  could 
easily  be  brought  to  profess  it,  and  suffer  himself  to  be  put 
under  the  water  by  a  foreigner.  I  then  turned  to  Moung 
Thah-a,  one  of  the  Nan-dau-gong  people,  who,  I  hope,  is  a 
true  believer.  "  Are  you  willing  to  take  the  oath  of  allegiance 
to  Jesus  Christ?"  "II'  (he  teacher  INIoung  Shwa-gnong 
consents,"  said  he,  "why  should  I  hesitate?"  "And  if  he 
does  not  consent,  what  then  ?  "  "I  must  Avait  a  little  longer." 
"  Stand  by,"  said  I ;  "  you  trust  in  Moung  Shwa-gnong,  rather 
24* 


282  MEMUIU    OF    1>K.    JUDbON. 

tlian  in  Jesus  Christ.  You  are  not  worthy  of  being  bai)tized." 
Moung  Myat-lah,  on  being  similarly  interrogated,  wished  to 
consider  a.  Httle  longer.  Go  Yan  was  still  further  from  com- 
mitting himself.  Of  the  women  present,  I  interrogated  Mali 
Men-la  only.  She  had  evidently  a  considerable  struggle  in 
her  mind,  probably  on  account  of  her  husband's  having  just 
declined.  At  length  she  said  that,  if  I  thought  it  suitable  for 
her  to  be  baptized,  she  was  desirous  of  receiving  tlie  ordinance. 
I  told  her  that  her  reply  w^as  not  satisfactory.  I  could  not 
consent  to  baptize  any  one  who  could  possibly  remain  easy 
without  being  baptized,  and  then  I  related  the  story  of  the 
two  last  disciples ;  after  which  the  party  broke  up. 

In  the  evening,  I  laid  the  case  of  Moung  Shwa-gnong  be- 
fore the  church,  and  we  joyfully  agreed  to  receive  him  to  com- 
munion, on  his  being  baptized. 

July  18.  In  the  morning,  the  teacher  again  made  his 
appearance.  I  again  asked  him  whether  he  preferred  being 
baptized  in  the  day  or  in  the  evening,  and  he  again  left  it  to 
my  decision  ;  on  which  I  advised  him  to  wait  till  night.  He 
appeared  very  well  through  the  day,  his  deportment  solemn, 
his  conversation  spiritual.  Just  at  night,  I  called  in  two  or 
three  of  the  disciples,  read  the  account  of  the  baptism  of  tiie 
eunuch,  made  the  baptismal  prayer,  and  then  proceeded  with 
the  teacher  to  the  accustomed  place,  went  down  into  tlie  water, 
and  baptized  him. 

On  my  return,  I  found  that  Mah  Men-la,  whom  I  had  left 
with  Mrs.  Judson,  had  gone  away.  As  soon  as  she  saw  that 
the  teacher  had  actually  gone  to  be  baptized,  she  exclaimed, 
"Ah,  he  has  now  gone  to  obey  the  command  of  Jesus  Christ, 
while  I  remain  without  obeying.  I  shall  not  be  able  to  sleep 
this  night.  I  must  go  home,  and  consult  my  husband,  and 
return."  In  the  evening,  we  again  partook  of  the  Lord's 
supper,  in  consequence  of  the  admission  of  the  teacher,  and 
my  expected  departure  on  the  morrow.  We  had  just  finished, 
when,  about  nine  o'clock,  Mah  Men-la  returned,  accompanied 
by  the  two  other  women  from  her  village.  She  immediately 
requested    to  be   baptized.      The  disciples    present   assented 


K.Mi'.AUK  FUJI  i;i;N«iAL.  :283 

%vitliout  liesitalion.  I  told  her  tliat  I  rejoiced  to  baptize  her, 
having  been  long  satisfied  that  she  had  received  the  grace  of 
Christ ;  and,  it  being  very  late,  I  led  her  out  to  the  pond  near 
the  house  by  lantern  light,  and  thus  baptized  the  tenth  Bur- 
man  convert,  and  the  first  woman.  Mah  Men-la  is  fifty-one 
years  old,  of  most  extensive  acquaintance  through  the  place, 
of  much  strength  of  mind,  decision  of  character,  and  conse- 
quent influence  over  others.  She  is,  indeed,  among  women 
what  Moung  Shwa-gnong  is  among  men. 

On  returning  to  the  house,  she  said,  "  Now  I  have  taken 
the  oath  of  allegiance  to  Jesus  Christ,  and  I  have  nothing  to 
do  but  to  commit  myself,  soul  and  body,  into  the  hands  of 
my  Lord,  assured  that  he  will  never  suffer  me  to  fall  away." 
Several  visitors  spent  the  night  at  the  mission  house. 

July  19.  In  the  morning,  we  all  met  for  worship.  After 
I  had  prayed,  Moung  Thah-lah  and  Moung  Shwa-ba  both 
prayed,  with  much  propriety  and  feeling.  In  the  course  of 
the  forenoon,  Mah  Men-la's  husband,  and  Moung  Thah-a,  and 
the  doctor,  and  several  others,  came  in,  so  that  we  had  quite  a 
house  full.  At  noon,  we  set  out  for  the  river,  followed  by 
near  a  hundred  people,  the  women  crying  aloud  in  the  Bur- 
man  manner,  and  almost  all  deeply  aifected.  When  v/e  en- 
tered the  boat,  I  called  the  teacher,  and  Mah  Men-la,  and  a 
few  others,  to  go  with  us  to  the  ship,  which  lay  at  some  dis- 
tance in  the  river.  The  rest  remained  on  the  wharf,  bidding 
us  farewell,  telling  us  to  come  back  soon,  &c.  Thus  we  left 
the  shores  of  Rangoon.  Those  who  accompanied  us  to  the 
ship  staid  an  hour  or  two,  and  returned.  We  stood  as  long 
on  the  quarter  deck  looking  at  them  as  the  others  had  stood 
on  the  wharf  looking  at  us.* 

July  20.     The  ship  having  been  unable  to  move  yesterday, 

*  One  of  these  female  disciples  was  found  at  Rangoon,  by  the 
missionaries,  in  August,  18-52,  having  attained  the  age  of  eighty  years. 
From  the  time  of  her  baptism  until  now,  for  thirty  years,  she  has 
maintained,  in  the  midst  of  heathenism,  a  consistent  Chi'istian  pro- 
fession. She  remembered  well  ^Mr.  Judson,  and  "  tlie  ^lamma  "  J\id- 
son,  and  was  in  daily  exiiectation  of  meeting  them  agaui  in  heaven. 


284  MKMOIK    OF    DK.    .JLD8<.>X. 

on  account  of  the  anchor's  being  foul,  the  teacher  Mounpj 
Shwa-gnong  espied  the  masts  from  his  viUage,  and  came  off 
in  a  boat,  with  his  wife  and  another  woman.  Soon  after, 
most  of  the  Nan-dau-gong  people  came  to  the  mission  house, 
and,  finding  that  the  ship  had  not  dropped  down,  came  off, 
accompanied  by  several  of  our  own  people.  We  were  nmch 
gratified  by  this  fresh  proof  of  their  attachment;  but  the 
ship  got  under  weigh  immediately,  and  they  were  obliged  to 
leave  us  for  the  last  time. 


Extract  of  a  Letter  from  the  Rev.  James  Colman,  dated  Rangoon,  March 
25,  1820. 

Perhaps  some  will  begin  to  think  that,  as  there  are  so 
many  ditficuUies  attending  the  Burman  mission,  it  is  best  to 
relinquish  it  altogether.  But  while  Burmans  are  willing,  in 
prospect  of  persecution  and  death,  to  examine  and  embrace 
the  gospel,  let  not  Christians  at  home  be  discouraged  from 
sending  it  to  them.  Is  it  a  suitable  time  to  leave  a  people 
when  the  Holy  Spirit  is  operating  on  their  minds,  and  cre- 
ating in  them  ardent  desires  to  know  the  way  which  leads  to 
eternal  life  ?  True,  the  number  of  our  inquirers  is  small ; 
but  if  there  is  only  one,  his  soul  is  worth  more  than  the 
wealth  of  the  world,  nor  should  it  perish  for  want  of  Chris- 
tian instruction.  I  freely  confess  that  nothing  would  tempt 
me  to  leave  the  station  in  Rangoon,  were  it  not  for  the  advice 
of  my  senior  in  the  mission,  and  for  the  purpose  of  preparing 
a  place  of  refuge,  in  case  of  imminent  danger,  from  the  Bur- 
man  government. 

The  Burmans  who  have  joined  us  continue  to  give  increas- 
ing evidence  of  being  real  Christians.  Their  attachment  to 
us,  and  to  the  gospel,  has  not  in  the  least  diminished  by  our 
disappointment  at  Ava.  Indeed,  this  event  has  awakened 
their  zeal.  It  is  owing,  in  a  great  measure,  to  their  exertions 
and  entreaties,  that  the  mission  is  continued  in  Rangoon. 
They  are  not  insensible  of  the  danger  to  which  their  conduct 
exposes  them ;  but  they  act  like  men  who  are  convinced  of  the 


CIIAllACTEK    OF    TIIK    CONVHKTS.  285 

rectitude  of  their  proceedings,  and  of  the  inii)ortant  triitli  that 
it  is  better  to  suffer  for  Christ  in  this  world  than  to  endure 
the  pains  of  hell  in  the  world  to  come.  We  cannot,  indeed, 
determine  how  they  would  conduct  in  the  fire  of  persecution  ; 
but  from  their  present  deportment  there  is  reason  to  hoi)e 
that  they  have  a  claim  to  the  divine  promises,  and  would,  in 
the  day  of  trial,  experience  their  supporting  influence.  Com- 
mending these  sheep,  literally  placed  among  wolves,  and  the 
Burman  mission,  to  your  prayers,  I  remain  yours  in  gospel 
bonds,  &c. 

The  following  letter,  sent  by  the  converts  in  Ran- 
goon to  their  Christian  brethren  in  Amcn'ica,  illustrates 
the  nature  of  that  character  which  had  been  formed  in 
them  by  the  preaching  of  the  gospel:  — 

Brethren  all,  who  live  in  America  !  The  brethren  who  live 
in  Burmah  address  you. 

We  inform  you,  brethren,  that,  trusting  in  the  grace  of  th(3 
eternal  God,  the  divine  Spirit,  and  the  excellent  Son,  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  we  remain  happy ;  and  seeing  our  real  state  and 
circumstances,  we  have  repentance  of  soul,  and  an  anticipation 
of  the  happiness  of  heaven. 

G'od,  the  sum  of  all  perfection,  without  beginning  and  without 
end,  subsists  through  successive  ages  ;  and  this  world,  the  earth 
and  sky,  and  all  things  therein,  which  he  has  created,  are  ac- 
cording as  he  created  them. 

God,  the  Creator,  is  replete  with  goodness  and  purity,  and  is 
exempt  from  old  age,  sickness,  death,  and  annihilation ;  and 
thus  there  is  none  that  can  compare  with  him. 

It  is  contained  in  the  Scriptures,  that  God,  in  his  own  nature, 
unites  three,  the  Father,  the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  is 
[yet]  mysteriously  one  God  ;  that  he  is  in  all  places,  but  dwells 
in  heaven,  by  the  clearer  manifestation  of  his  glory ;  that  his 
power  and  wisdom  are  unrivalled  ;  and  that  he  enjoys  happiness 
incomprehensible  to  creatures. 

But  the  Burmans  know  not  the  true  God  ;  thev  know  not 


28G  MEMOIR    OF    Dli.    JUDSON. 

the  true  religion ;  they  worsliip  a  false  god  ;  they  practise  a 
false  religion ;  and  [thus]  they  transgress  the  divine  law,  and 
sin  against  the  most  estimable  Benefactor,  and  therefore  they 
neither  expiate  their  sins  nor  acquire  merit.  And  by  exces- 
sively loving  themselves  and  tlie  filth  of  this  world,  they  love 
not  nor  worship  the  eternal  God,  nor  believe  in  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  but  regard  the  good  things  of  this  world  merely. 

That  the  Burmans,  who  know  not  the  way  to  eternal  happi- 
ness, might  become  acquainted  with  it ;  that  they  might  be 
renewed ;  and  that  they  might  escape  everlasting  punishment, 
the  American  teacher  Judson  and  wife  have  both  come  to 
Burmah,  and  proclaimed  the  gospel  of  the  divine  Son,  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ ;  on  which  some  Burmans  have  become  disciples. 
And  on  these  accounts,  the  disciple  Moung  Shwa-ba  says  that 
your  favor  is  very  great,  [or  he  gives  you  very  many  thanks.] 

Those  who  love  divine  grace,  who  believe,  who  hear  and 
consider  the  gospel,  who  trust  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who 
rei)ent  of  their  sins,  attain  the  state  of  disciples.  And  that 
this  religion  may  spread  every  where,  Moung  Shwa-ba  is  making 
endeavors,  and  constantly  praying,  to  proclaim  the  gospel. 
And  he  prays  thus  :  O  eternal  God,  graciously  grant  the 
favor  which  I  desire.  Graciously  grant  that  I  may  have 
regard  to  thy  divine  will,  and  be  confirmed  thereto.  Be  pleased 
to  take  notice  of  my  supplications,  O  God.  I  desire  not  to  seek 
my  own  profit ;  I  desire  constantly  to  seek  the  profit  of  others. 
Thou  art  the  creator  of  all  things  ;  and  if  thou  art  pleased  to 
be  gracious,  O,  grant  that  I  may  be  enabled  to  promote  the  good 
of  others.  Open  thou  the  eyes  of  my  mind,  and  give  me  light. 
And  when  I  shall  preach  in  various  places,  evermore  send  forth 
the  divine  Spirit,  that  multitudes  may  become  disciples.  That 
thou  wilt  grant  these  things,  I  beseech  thee,  O  God. 

The  disciple  Moung  Shwa-ba  has  composed  this  writing,  and 
committed  it  to  the  hand  of  the  teacher  ;  [even]  in  the  Burman 
year  1182,  on  the  7th  of  the  waxing  of  the  moon  Wah-goung, 
he  has  written  this,  and  delivered  it  to  the  teacher  and  his  wife. 
P.  S.  Brethren,  there  are  in  the  country  of  Burmah  nine 
persons  who  have  become  disciples. 


CHARACTER  OP  THE  CONVERTS.  287 

The  above  is  a  literal  translation  of  a  letter  in  Burman, 
which  Moung  Shwa-Ija  wrote  of  his  own  accord,  and  handed 
to  me,  to  be  translated  and  forwarded  to  America.  The  post- 
script seems  to  have  been  written  in  the  interval  between  the 
baptism  of  the  teacher  Moung  Shwa-gnong,  and  that  of  Mah 
Men-la,  on  the  18th  of  July  last,  just  before  my  departure 
from  Rangoon. 

A.  JuDSON,  Jr. 

On  Passage  to  Bengal,  August  9,  1820. 


'W 

W^-^-^ 

i; 

nu-vv^ 

i 

)rinv> 

"l.w,. 

K 


CHAPTER    IX. 

KETURN  TO  RANGOON.  —  GROWTH  OF  THE  CHURCH.  —  INCREASED 
ILLNESS  OF  MRS.  JUDSON.  — SAILS  FOR  THE  UNITED  STATES. 
—  THE  MISSION  REENFORCED.  —  SECOND  VISIT  TO  AVA. — 
TRANSLATION  OF  NEW  TESTAMENT  COMPLETED. 

1820-1823. 

At  the  close  of  the  last  chapter  we  left  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Jiidson  embarking  for  Calcutta,  on  the  19th  of 
July,  1820.  They  arrived  there  on  the  18th  of  the  fol- 
lowing August.  The  voyage  was  attended  with  im- 
portant benefit  to  the  health  of  Mrs.  Judson,  and  she 
was  so  far  improved  in  the  course  of  a  few  months 
that  her  medical  advisers  deemed  it  safe  for  her 
to  return  to  Rangoon.  They  sailed  from  Calcutta 
November  23,  1820,  and  arrived  in  Rangoon  January 
5,  1821.  The  following  extracts  from  Mr.  Judson's 
journal  present  a  delightful  view  of  the  progress  of  the 
gospel  until  August  21  of  the  same  year,  when  alarm- 
ing illness  made  it  necessary  for  Mrs.  Judson  to  em- 
bark for  Calcutta,  and  to  proceed  thence  to  England 
and  the  United  States. 

M)\  Judson's  Journal  continued. 

January  5,  1821.  As  we  drew  near  the  town,  we  strained 
our  eyes  to  distinguish  the  countenances  of  our  friends  amid 
the  crowd  thai  we  saw  assembled  on  the  wharf.  The  first 
that  we  recognized  was  the  teacher  Moung  Shwa-gnong, 
with  his  hands  raised  to  his  head  as  he  discerned  us  on  the 
deck  ;  and  on  landing  we  met  successively  with  Mali  Men-la, 
and  Moung  Thah-lah,  and  several  others,  men,  women,  and 
children,  who,  after  our  usual  examination  at  the  custom  office, 
accompanied  us  to  the  mission  house.     Soon  after,  Moung 

288 


GRATEFUL    MEETINGS.  289 

Nau,  and  others  came  in,  who  had  not,  at  first,  heard  of  our 
arrivah  In  the  evening  I  took  my  usual  seat  among  the  dis- 
ciples, and  when  w^e  bowed  down  in  prayer,  the  hearts  of  us 
all  flowed  forth  in  gratitude  and  praise. 

January  7,  Lord's  day.  Had  worship,  and  administered 
the  Lord's  supper.  Most  of  the  disciples  present ;  but  some 
of  them  unavoidably  detained  in  consequence  of  the  distress 
which  presses  upon  all  ranks  of  people,  occasioned  by  the  ex- 
])edition  to  Siam. 

January  13.  Have  spent  the  past  w^eek  in  getting  our 
things  in  order,  and  receiving  visits  from  the  disciples  and  in- 
quirers. Yesterday,  Moung  Gway,  the  only  one  of  the  bap- 
tized whom  we  had  not  seen,  returned  from  the  woods,  on 
hearing  of  our  arrival ;  and  I  am  now  able  to  record  (and  I 
do  it  with  the  most  heartfelt  satisfaction  and  grateful  praise 
to  the  preserving  Saviour)  that,  though  they  have,  for  the 
space  of  six  months,  been  almost  destitute  of  the  means  of 
grace,  and  those  wdio  lived  in  our  yard  have  been  dispersed, 
and  forced,  through  fear  of  heavy  extortion  and  oppression 
from  petty  officers  of  government,  to  flee  into  the  woods,  or 
take  refuge  under  some  government  person  who  could  protect 
them,  yet  not  one  of  them  has  dishonored  his  profession,  but 
all  remain  firm  in  their  faith  and  attachment  to  the  cause.  I 
do  not,  however,  perceive  that  any  of  them  have  made  the 
least  advance  in  any  respect  whatever ;  nor  w^as  this  to  be  ex- 
pected, as  they  have  not  even  enjoyed  the  privilege  of  meet- 
ing for  w^orship.  ' 

The  same  remarks  are  to  be  made  concerning  the  four 
Nan-dau-gong  people,  companions  of  Mah  INIen-la,  who  ap- 
])eared  to  be  hopefully  pious  before  we  left.  .  The  doctor,  Oo 
Yan,  with  whom  we  did  not  feel  so  w^ell  satisfied,  has  been 
with  me  repeatedly,  and,  in  the  last  interview,  gave  good  rea- 
son to  hope  that  he  also  is  a  true  convert.  He  seems  at 
length  to  have  obtained  light  and  satisfaction  on  the  two  difficult 
points  which  have  so  long  perplexed  him  ;  namely,  the  doc- 
trine of  vicarious  atonement,  and  the  possibility  of  being  a 
disciple  of  Christ,  by  keeping  the  two  commands  of  grace, 
VOL.   L  25 


290  MEMOIK    OF    Dli.    JUDSON. 

Repent  and  believe,  without  perfectly  keeping  the  two  immu- 
table commands  of  merit,  Love  God  entirely,  and  love  oth- 
ers as  yourself.  O,  how  interesting  it  is  to  see  (you  can  al- 
most see  it  with  your  eyes)  the  light  of  truth  dawning  upon  a 
precious  soul  hitherto  groping  in  darkness !  If  Oo  Yan 
prove  a  true  convert,  he  will  be  a  most  precious  acquisition 
to  our  cause,  next  to  Moung  Shwa-gnong.  He  is  a  man  of 
talents  and  respectability.  His  words  are  as  smooth  as  oil, 
as  sweet  as  honey,  and  as  sharp  as  a  razor. 

In  respect  to  Mali  Bike,  she  has  given  way  to  her  violent 
temper,  and  involved  her  husband  in  debt ;  and  though  she 
now  professes  to  repent  and  desire  baptislfti,  and  though  we 
have  some  hope  that  she  is  not  destitute  of  grace,  we  feel 
obhged  at  present  to  put  her  away  from  us,  as  a  wicked 
person. 

The  most  important  event  (and  that  relates  of  course  to 
Moung  Shwa-gnong)  remains  to  be  mentioned.  It  will  be  re- 
membered that  he  was  accused,  before  the  former  viceroy,  of 
being  a  heretic,  and  that  the  simple  reply,  "  Inquire  further," 
spread  dismay  amongst  us  all,  and  was  one  occasion  of  our 
visit  to  Ava.  Soon  after  Mya-day-men  assumed  the  govern- 
ment of  this  province,  all  the  priests  and  officers  of  the  vil- 
lage where  Moung  Shwa-gnong  lives  entered  into  a  conspir- 
acy to  destroy  him.  They  held  daily  consultations,  and  as- 
sumed a  tone  of  triumph  ;  while  poor  Moung  Shwa-gnong's 
courage  began  to  flag,  and,  though  he  does  not  like  to  own  it, 
he  thought  he  must  flee  for  his  life.  At  length,  one  of  the 
conspiracy,  a  member  of  the  supreme  court,  went  into  the 
presence  of  the  viceroy,  and  in  order  to  sound  his  disposition, 
complained  that  the  teacher  Moung  Shwa-gnong  was  making 
every  endeavor  to  turn  the  priests'  rice  pot  bottom  upwards. 
"  What  consequence  ? "  said  the  viceroy.  "  Let  the  priests 
turn  it  hack  again^  This  sentence  was  enough  ;  the  hopes 
of  the  conspiracy  were  blasted,  and  all  the  disciples  felt  that 
they  were  sure  of  toleration  under  Mya-day-men.  But  his 
administration  will  not  probably  continue  many  months. 

January  20.  This  afternoon  Mrs.  Judson  went  to  the  village 


DHLIGIITFUL    SABBATH.  291 

of  the  Nan-dnu-goiig  people,  to  fix  on  a  spot  for  the  erection 
of  a  small  school  house.  Mah  Men-la  has,  of  her  oivn  ac- 
cord, proi)osed  to  open  a  school  in  the  precincts  of  her  house, 
to  teach  the  girls  and  boys  of  the  village  to  read ;  in  conse- 
quence of  which,  the  latter  will  not  be  under  the  necessity  of 
going  to  the  Burman  priests  for  education,  as  usual.  When 
we  found  that  she  had  really  made  a  beginning,  we  told  her 
that  some  of  the  Christian  females  in  America  would,  doubt- 
less, defray  the  expenses  of  the  undertaking,  and  make  some 
compensation  to  the  instructress.  We  fear  the  school  will  not 
succeed  in  the  present  state  of  the  country ;  but  we  regard 
the  voluntary  attempt  of  Mah  Men-la  as  illustrative  of  the 
efficiency  of  evangelical  faith. 

On  Tuesday  evening  we  recommenced  our  usual  Tuesday 
and  Friday  evening  prayer  meetings ;  but  we  expect  to  have 
very  few  present,  as  most  of  the  disciples  who  formerly  lived 
around  us  are  afraid  to  return,  on  account  of  the  present  gen- 
eral distress,  from  which  we  are  unable  to  protect  them. 

January  21,  Lord's  day.  All  the  disciples  but  one,  and  all 
the  hopeful  inquirers,  were  present  at  worship ;  who,  together 
with  some  others,  made  up  an  assembly  of  about  twenty-five 
adults,  all  paying  respectful  and  devout  attention ;  the  most 
interesting  assembly,  all  things  considered,  that  I  have  yet 
seen.  How  impossible  it  seemed,  two  years  ago,  that  sucli  a 
precious  assembly  could  ever  be  raised  up  out  of  the  Egyptian 
darkness,  the  atheistic  superstition  of  this  heathen  land  !  After 
worship,  two  of  the  Nan-dau-gong  people  had  some  particular 
conversation  with  Moung  Thah-lah  about  baptism.  Much 
encouraged  by  the  general  appearance  of  things  this  day. 
Why  art  thou  ever  cast  down,  O  my  soul  ?  and  why  art  thou 
disquieted  within  me?  Hope  thou  in  God  —  the  God  of  the 
Burmans,  as  well  as  David's  God ;  for  I  shall  yet  praise  him 
for  the  help  of  his  countenance,  revealed  in  the  salvation  of 
thousands  of  these  immortal  souls. 

January  *lb.  Received  a  visit  from  a  young  priest  and  a 
novitiate,  who  reside  in  a  neighboring  kyoung,  (a  house  inhab- 
ited by  priests.)     They  staid  with  me  above  an  hour,  and 


202  MEMOIll    OF    DR.  JUDSON. 

paid  more  candid  attention  to  divine  truth  than  I  have  ever 
been  able  to  obtain  from  any  gentleman  of  the  yellow  cloth. 
On  pressing  the  question  whether  they  did  not  sometimes 
doubt  the  correctness  of  their  religion,  they  confessed  in  the 
atfirmative,  and  finally  condescended  to  accept  a  tract ;  but  it 
will  be  torn  to  pieces  as  soon  as  it  reaches  the  hands  of  their 
superiors. 

January  31.  Received  a  visit  from  the  teacher  Oo  Oung- 
det,  of  the  village  of  Kambet.  He  has  disseminated  the  semi- 
atheistic  doctrine  for  several  years,  and  formed  a  small  party 
among  his  neighbors,  who  pay  no  respect  to  the  priest  and  the 
religion  of  Gaudama.  We  had  a  most  interesting  conversa- 
tion of  about  two  hours,  in  the  presence  of  a  large  company, 
most  of  whom  came  with  him.  He  successively  gave  up  every 
point  that  he  attempted  to  maintain,  and  appeared  to  lay  open 
his  mind  to  the  grand  truths  of  an  eternal  God,  eternal  happi- 
ness, &:c.  Moung  Shwa-gnong  seconded  me,  and  discoursed 
in  a  truly  impressive  manner,  until  the  attention  of  the  old 
man  was  so  completely  fixed  that  his  friends  with  difficulty 
persuaded  him  to  take  leave. 

February  4.  Oo  Oung-det  repeated  his  visit.  He  acknowl- 
edges himself  convinced  of  the  existence  of  an  eternal  God, 
and  appears  to  be  desirous  of  knowing  the  whole  truth ;  but 
business  prevented  his  staying  long. 

February  12.  Had  a  long  conversation  with  Oo  Oung-det, 
in  which  I  at  length  endeavored  to  unfold  to  his  view  the 
whole  mystery  of  the  gospel,  the  way  of  salvation  through  the 
atonement  of  the  Son  of  God,  to  which  our  previous  conversa- 
tions have  been  little  more  than  preparatory.  But  his  proud 
heart  evidently  repelled  the  humiliating  doctrine  ;  so  true  it  is 
that  the  cross  of  Christ  is  the  sure  touchstone  of  the  human 
heart.  His  nephew,  however,  Moung  Oung-hmat,  listened 
with  the  air  of  an  awakened  man.  During  a  temporary  sus- 
pense of  conversation,  I  was  much  gratified  by  hearing  hmi 
whisper  to  his  uncle,  "Ask  him  more  about  Jesus  Christ." 
He  received  a  form  of  prayer  with  eagerness,  and  listened  to 
my  parting  instruction  with  some  feeling. 


PETITION    KOJl    r.APTISM.  293 

February  IG.  Moiiiig  Iiig  lias  returned.  He  is  the  sec- 
ond Burman  whose  heart  was  touched  l)y  divine  grace.  We 
rejoi(;ed  to  see  his  face  again,  notwithstanding  his  rougli  and 
unprepossessing  appearance,  occasioned  by  the  hardships 
through  which  he  has  passed  since  he  left  us.  On  his  arrival 
at  Bike,  a  town  far  below  Rangoon,  he  showed  his  copy  of 
Matthew  to  the  Roman  Catholic  priest  stationed  there,  who 
directly  committed  it  to  the  flames ;  and  gave,  instead  of  it,  a 
w^riting  of  his  own  device.  But,  through  divine  grace,  our 
poor  friend  retained  his  integrity,  and  remained  steadfast  in 
the  sentiments  which  he  formerly  embraced. 

February  19.  Spent  several  pleasant  hours  with  Moung 
Ing.  During  his  residence  at  Bike,  he  was  not  satisfied  willi 
being  a  solitary  disciple,  but  undertook  to  dispute  with  both 
Portuguese  and  Burmans,  and  found  two  or  three  who  were 
disposed  to  listen  to  him.  He  is  to  return  thither  within  a 
fortnight,  but  wishes  to  be  baptized  previously. 

February  20.  This  is  the  second  evening  in  which  Mrs. 
Judson  and  myself  have  had  an  interview  with  the  viceroy 
and  his  lady,  in  their  inner  apartment.  Her  highness  gave 
us  some  very  encouraging  hints  on  the  subject  of  religious  tol- 
eration, and  promised  to  introduce  us  to  the  emperor,  on  his 
visiting  Rangoon  next  fall,  in  prosecution  of  the  war  with 
Siam. 

February  25,  Lord's  day.  Moung  Ing  presented  his  peti- 
tion for  baptism  and  admission  into  the  church ;  and  we  un- 
hesitatingly agreed  to  grant  his  request  next  Lord's  day.  Not 
one  of  the  disciples  has  given  more  decided  evidence  of  being 
a  sincere  and  hearty  believer  in  the  Lord  Jesus.  The  man- 
ner of  his  first  acquaintance  with  the  truth  is  somewhat  notice- 
able. I  had  conversed  with  two  men  wdio  visited  the  zayat 
the  preceding  evening,  and  given  them  a  tract.  On  their  way 
home  they  called  at  the  house  of  the  Tsah-len  teacher,  wdiere 
Moung  Ing  resided,  said  a  few  things  about  the  eternal  God 
and  the  new  religion,  by  way  of  disapproval,  and  concluded 
that  the  tract  was  good  for  nothing  but  to  tear  up  and  make 
cigars  of.  But  the  truth  which  they  despised  fell  like  a  flash 
25* 


294  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JLDtJON. 

of  lightning  on  the  beniglited  soul  of  Moung  Ing.  The  next 
morning,  before  sunrise,  he  was  in  the  porch  of  the  zajat, 
and,  on  opening  the  doors,  we  found  the  poor  man  standing 
without.  He  will  not,  I  trust,  meet  with  any  such  detention 
at  the  doors  of  heaven. 

March  4,  Lord's  day.  Moung  Ing  received  baptism  imme- 
diately after  worship  in  the  afternoon.  Several  of  the  hope- 
ful inquirers  witnessed  the  administration. 

March  11,  Lord's  day.  We  partook  of  the  Lord's  supper 
in  the  evening,  pursuant  to  a  resolution  of  the  church  to  cele- 
brate this  ordinance  on  the  second  Sunday  after  the  change 
of  the  moon,  in  order  to  avail  ourselves  uniformly  of  light 
evenings. 

After  the  ordinance,  Moung  Ing  immediately  took  leave, 
for  the  purpose  of  returning  to  Bike.  He  is  laden  with  vari- 
ous writings,  in  Burman  and  Portuguese,  for  distribution 
among  the  people  of  that  place. 

May  4.  vSeveral  days  have  passed  without  any  encour- 
aging occurrence.  The  zayat  never  attracted  less  company, 
and  I  began  to  fear  that  the  good  old  times  of  1810  would 
never  again  return.  A  case,  however,  has  just  occuri-ed,  which 
reminds  me  of  those  times.  I  never  before  met  with  an 
instance  of  such  openness  of  mind,  and  readiness  to  receive  the 
truth,  on  first  communication.  The  man  is  a  regular  bred 
Boodhist,  without  the  least  tincture  of  semi-atheism  ;  and  yet, 
strange  to  say,  he  listened  to  the  truth  with  unprecedented 
candor,  and  apparent  eagerness,  for  above  two  hours.  I  am 
sure  I  shall  see  him  again.  But  yet,  what  have  I  found  more 
fallacious  than  first  appearances  ? 

May  6,  Lord's  day.  From  various  causes,  there  were 
only  three  of  the  baptized  present  at  worship,  and  yet  we  had 
an  assembly  of  above  twenty  adults,  in  all  the  various  stages  of 
religious  inquiry ;  some  almost  ready  to  profess  religion,  and 
some  just  beginning  to  open  their  eyes  to  the  wonders  of 
redeeming  love.  Among  the  rest  were  two  aged  men,  devout 
worshippers  of  Gaudama,  and  constant  attendants  on  the 
lectures  of  the  Mangen  teacher.     They  listened  with  fixed 


I'KliriONAL    CONVKI18ATION.S.  295 

attention  to  a  long  discourse  from  tlie  parable  of  the  pharisec 
and  publican;  and  o:ie  of  them  declared  himself  pleased  with 
the  doctrine.  There  was  also  present,  for  the  first  time,  a  rela- 
tion of  Moung  Shwa-ba,  from  the  upper  part  of  the  country, 
who  has  received  considerable  information  from  his  cousin. 
He  was  so  much  delighted  with  some  things  which  he  heard, 
tliat,  in  the  midst  of  the  discourse,  he  broke  out  into  audible 
expressions  of  approbation. 

After  worship,  we  heard  that  the  former  viceroy,  Moung 
Shwa-thah,  has  incurred  the  displeasure  of  the  emperor,  and 
been  degraded  from  all  his  titles  and  emoluments  ;  so  that  he 
will  not,  probably,  be  again  allowed  to  supersede  Mya-day- 
nien,  in  the  viceroyship  of  Rangoon. 

May  12,  Saturday.  Have  had  several  attentive  listen- 
ers during  the  past  week.  Some  of  my  old  visitors  from 
Kambet  and  other  villages  begin  to  find  that  the  doors  of  the 
zayat  are  again  open. 

May  14.  A  succession  of  company  through  the  day.  A 
priest  of  some  note  listened  with  much  apparent  candor,  and 
some  expressions  of  approval. 

May  15.  Despatched  the  manuscript  of  Ephesians,  and 
tlie  first  part  of  Acts,  to  Serarapore,  requesting  brother  Plough 
to  procure  an  edition  of  six  hundred  of  each,  at  the  expense  of 
the  board. 

At  night,  received  a  visit  from  Moung  Gwa,  brother-in-law 
to  Moung  Shwa-ba.  He  was  accompanied  by  one  Moung 
Thah-ee,  an  intractable,  furious  creature,  noted  for  browbeating 
and  silencing  every  antagonist.  He  professes  to  be  a  strict 
Boodhist,  without  the  least  doubt  on  the  subject  of  religion ; 
but  having  heard  of  my  object  in  coming  to  this  country,  wishes 
to  give  me  an  opportunity  of  making  him  doubt.  I  found  him 
extremely  difficult  to  manage,  and  finally  told  him  that  he  must 
get  a  humble  mind,  and  pray  to  the  true  God,  or  he  would  never 
attain  true  wisdom.  This  threw  him  into  a  passion.  He  said 
he  would  have  me  to  know  that  he  was  no  common  man.  He 
could  dispute  with  governors  and  kings,  &c.  I  then  gave  him 
a  tract,  which  he  afiected  to  disdain,  but  finally  received  it  and 
went  away. 


296  :\ik:»!oiu  of  dk.  jid^on. 

May  16.  Monng  Gwa  culled  to  apologize  for  his  compan- 
ion's conducvt.  lie  said  that,  from  being  always  victorious  in 
disputation,  he  had  become  insolent  and  overbearing,  but  that 
he  was  really  inquiring  after  the  truth,  and  had  been  reading 
the  tract  attentively;  Moung  Gwa  himself  seems  to  be  favorably 
disposed  to  the  Christian  religion. 

May  17.  Moung  Thah-ee  spent  the  whole  evening  with 
me.  I  find  that  he  has  a  strong  mind,  capable  of  grasping  the 
most  difficult  subject.  He  listened  to  the  truth  with  much  more 
attention  and  patience  than  at  first. 

May  18.  Moung  Thah-ee  came  again,  accompanied  by 
several  of  his  admirers.  At  first  he  behaved  with  some  pro- 
priety, and  allow^ed  conversation  to  proceed  in  a  regular 
manner.  But  soon  he  descended  into  his  own  native  element, 
and  stormed  and  raged.  When  I  found  that  he  would  be 
utterly  unreasonable,  and  not  permit  me  even  to  finish  a  sen- 
tence, I  remained  silent,  and  suffered  him  to  display  himself. 
When  he  was  quite  exhausted,  I  took  an  opportunity  to  exhibit 
a  brief  view  of  the  reasons  which  convinced  me  that  the  reli- 
gion of  Gaudama  is  false,  and  the  Boodhist  scriptures  fictitious, 
and  then  challenged  him  to  refute  my  statement.  But  he 
declined,  saying  that  we  were  both  tired,  and  he  would  finish 
the  debate  some  other  time. 

May  19.  A  succession  of  company  all  the  day.  At  night, 
Moung  Thah-ee  came  alone,  intending  to  have  some  private 
conversation  ;  but  no  opportunity  offered. 

May  20,  Lord's  day.  Encountered  another  new  charac- 
ter, one  Moung  Long,  from  the  neighborhood  of  Shwa-doung, 
a  discijde  of  the  great  Toung-dwen  teacher,  the  acknowdedged 
head  of  all  the  semi-atheists  in  the  country.  Like  the  rest  of 
tlie  sect,  Moung  Long  is,  in  reality,  a  complete  sceptic,  scarcely 
believing  his  own  existence.  They  say  he  is  always  quarrel- 
ling with  his  wife  on  some  metaphysical  point.  For  instance, 
if  she  says,  "  The  rice  is  ready,"  he  will  rei:)ly,  "  Rice  !  what 
is  rice?  Is  it  matter  or  spirit?  Ls  it  an  idea,  or  is  it  non- 
entity ?  "  Perhaps  she  will  say,  "  It  is  matter ;  "  and  he  will 
reply,  *'  Well,  wife,  and  what  is  matter  ?     Are  you  sure  there 


A    SUIJTLE    SCEPTIC.  297 

18  such  a  thing  in  existence,  or  are  you  merely  subject  to  a 
delusion  of  the  senses  ?  "  * 

AVhen  he  first  came  in,  I  thought  him  an  ordinary  man.  He 
has  only  one  good  eye  ;  but  I  soon  discovered  that  that  one  eye 
has  as  "  great  a  quantity  of  being  "  as  half  a  dozen  common 
eyes.  In  his  manners  he  is  just  the  reverse  of  Moung  Thah-ee 
—  all  suavity,  and  humility,  and  respect.  He  professed  to 
be  an  inquirer  after  the  truth  ;  and  I  accordingly  opened  to  him 
some  parts  of  the  gospel.  lie  listened  with  great  seriousness, 
and  when  I  ceased  speaking,  remained  so  thoughtful,  and  appar- 
ently impressed  with  the  truth,  that  I  began  to  hope  he  would 
come  to  some  good,  and  therefore  invited  him  to  ask  some 
question,  relative  to  what  he  had  heard.  "  Your  servant,"  said 
he,  "has  not  much  to  inquire  of  your  lordship.  In  your  lord- 
ship's sacred  speech,  however,  there  are  one  or  two  words  that 
your  servant  does  not  understand.  Your  lordship  says,  that 
in  the  beginning  God  created  one  man  and  one  woman.  I  do 
not  understand  (I  beg  your  lordship's  pardon)  what  a  man  is, 
and  why  he  is  called  a  man."  My  eyes  were  now  opened  in 
an  instant  to  his  real  character ;  and  I  had  the  happiness  to  be 
enabled,  for  about  twenty  minutes,  to  lay  blow  after  blow  upon 
his  sceptical  head,  with  such  effect  that  he  kept  falling  and 
falling ;  and  though  he  made  several  desperate  efforts  to  get 
up,  he  found  himself,  at  last,  prostrate  on  the  ground,  unable  to 
stir.  Moung  Shwa-gnong,  who  had  been  an  attentive  listener, 
was  extremely  delighted  to  see  his  enemy  so  well  punished ; 
for  this  Moung  Long  has  sorely  harassed  him  in  time  past. 
The  poor  man  was  not,  however,  in  the  least  angry  at  his  dis- 
comfiture, but,  in  the  true  spirit  of  his  school,  said  that,  though 
he  had  heard  much  of  me,  the  reality  far  exceeded  the  report. 
Afterwards  he  joined  us  in  worship,  and  listened  with  great 
attention,  as  did  also  his  wife. 

May  21.    Moung  Thah-ee  came  again,  with  several  others  ; 

*  The  doctrines  of  idealism  and  nihilism  were  fully  and  ably  dis- 
cussed by  the  Brahmins  and  Boodhists  centimes  before  the  tune  of 
Berkeley  and  Hume. 


298  MEMOIR    OF    Dli.    JUDSON. 

but  lie  was  so  outrageous,  and  vulgar,  and  abusive,  that  I 
found  it  impossible  to  hold  any  rational  conversation  with 
him  ;  and  he  finally  went  away  in  a  great  passion,  saying  that 
he  had  been  sent  by  some  men  in  authority  to  spy  us  out,  and 
that  by  to-morrow  he  would  bring  us  into  trouble.  Such 
threatenings  tend  to  sink  our  spirits,  and  make  us  realize  our 
truly  helpless,  destitute  condition,  as  sheep  in  the  midst  of 
Avolves.     "  Lord,  behold  their  threatenings,"  &c. 

May  27,  Lord's  day.  A  very  busy  day.  Had  scarcely 
dismissed  the  few  Europeans  who  attend  English  worship  in 
the  morning,  when  the  Burman  visitors  began  to  come  in  ; 
and,  though  many  of  the  disciples  were  absent,  we  finally  had 
an  assembly  of  thirty  persons,  who  paid  most  earnest  and  un- 
interrupted attention  to  a  discourse  of  about  half  an  hour, 
from  the  text,  "  By  one  man's  disobedience,  many  were  made 
sinners."  A  few  who  visited  the  zayat  during  the  past  week 
M^ere  present  for  the  first  time.  One  of  them,  by  name  Moung 
Hla,  may  be  claimed  among  the  hopeful  inquirers.  Moung 
Long  w^as  again  present,  and  another  disciple  of  the  Toung- 
dwen  teacher,  of  equal  powers  of  mind ;  but  these  keen  met- 
aphysicians are,  I  fear,  far  from  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

June  3,  Lord's  day.  A  new  acquaintance  of  last  week,  of 
Siamese  extraction,  and  Moung  Hla  and  Moung  Long  were 
present  with  the  usual  assembly.  Mali  Myat-lah,  sister  of 
Mali  Men-la,  appears  to  be  resolved,  at  length,  to  profess 
religion. 

June  4.  IMoung  Long  spent  two  or  three  hours  with  me, 
in  Avhich  I  endeavored  to  lay  before  him  all  the  evidences 
of  the  truth  of  the  Christian  religion.  His  wife  proves  to  be 
as  sharp  as  himself,  and  has  been  harassing  Mrs.  Judson 
with  all  sorts  of  questions  about  the  possibility  of  sin's  finding 
entrance  into  a  pure  mind,  or  of  its  being  permitted  under  the 
government  of  a  holy  sovereign. 

I  have  this  day  taken  Moung  Shwa-ba  into  the  service  of 
the  mission.  He  bids  fairer  than  any  other  member  of  the 
cliurch  to  ])e  qualified,  in  due  time,  for  the  ministry.  For, 
though  inferior  to  Moung  Thali-lah  in  fluency  of  speech,  and 


FIRST    IJUK-^IKSE    ASSISTANT.  299 

to  Mouns;  Slnva-gnong  in  genius  and  address,  he  is  superior 
to  tlie  former  in  consistency  of  character  and  gravity  of  de- 
portment, and  to  the  latter  in  experimental  acquaintance  with 
divinci  things  and  devotedness  to  the  cause.  But  the  principal 
trait  of  character  which  distinguishes  him  from  the  rest,  and 
affords  considerable  evidence  that  he  is  called  by  higher  au- 
thority than  that  of  man  to  the  Christian  ministry,  is  his  hum- 
hie  and  'persevering  desire  for  that  office  —  a  desire  which 
sprang  up  in  his  heart  soon  after  his  conversion,  and  has  been 
growing  ever  since.  I  intend  to  employ  him,  at  present,  as  an 
assistant  in  the  zayat,  on  a  small  allowance  of  seven  or  eight 
rupees  a  month,  which  I  hope  the  board  will  approve  of.  In 
that  situation  he  will  have  an  opportunity  of  improving  in 
those  qualitieations  which  are  requisite  to  fit  him  to  be  a 
teacher  of  religion  among  his  fellow-countrvmen. 

June  8.  Tlie  Siamese  spent  several  hours  with  me.  His 
mind  is  just  on  the  poise  between  Boodhism  and  Christianity. 

June  10,  Lord's  day.  Moung  Long  again  present  —  all  eye 
and  ear.  Mrs.  Judson  pronounces  his  wife  the  most  supe- 
rior woman,  in  point  of  intellect,  that  she  has  met  with  in 
Burmah. 

-  After  evening  worship,  Mah  My at-lah  presented  her  petition 
for  admission  into  the  church,  which  was  granted,  and  next 
Sunday  appointed  for  her  baptism.  The  evidences  of  her 
piety  are  of  the  most  satisfactory  kind.  AVe  esteem  her  quite 
as  highly  as  her  sister,  Mah  Men-la,  though  she  is  far  infe- 
rior in  external  qualifications. 

June  11.  Moung  Long  and  wife  sj)ent  most  of  the  day 
with  us.  Their  minds  are  in  a  truly  hopeful  state,  though 
still  greatly  governed  by  the  maxims  of  the  Toung-dwen 
school.  Their  main  inquiry  to-day  was,  how  they  could  ob- 
tain faith  in  Christ.  IMay  the  Holy  Spirit  solve  their  difficul- 
ties, by  giving  them  an  experimental  acquaintance  with  that 
saving  grace  ! 

June  14.  An  intimate  friend  of  the  Woon-gyee-gah-dau 
told  Mrs.  Judson  to-day,  in  presence  of  her  highness,  who  by 
silence  assented  to  the  correctness  of  the  remark,  that  when 


300  MEMOIR    OF    DR.   JUDSON. 

tlie  emperor  and  others  in  government  said  that  all  might 
believe  and  worship  as  they  please,  the  toleration  extended 
merely  to  foreigners  resident  in  the  empire,  and  by  no  means 
to  native  Burmahs,  who,  being  slaves  of  the  emperor,  would 
not  be  allowed  with  impunity  to  renounce  the  religion  of  their 
master.  This  remark  accords  with  all  that  we  have  heard  at 
Ava,  and  may  be  depended  on,  (notwithstanding  some  private 
encouragement  we  have  received  from  the  viceroy  and  his 
wife,)  as  affording  a  correct  view  of  the  state  of  religious  tol- 
eration in  this  country.  It  is  a  fact  that,  except  in  our  own 
private  circle,  it  is  not  known  that  a  single  individual  has 
actually  renounced  Boodhism,  and  been  initiated  into  the 
Christian  religion. 

Mall  Myat-lah  informs  us  that  the  news  of  her  intended 
baptism  has  been  rumored  among  her  neighbors,  and  excited 
a  great  uproar.  She  is  not,  however,  disheartened,  but  rather 
wishes  that  her  baptism  may  not  be  deferred  till  Sunday, 
lest  some  measures  be  taken  to  prevent  it.  I  expect  that  she 
will  present  herself  for  baptism  to-morrow*evening,  but  am 
obliged  to  close  up  this  number,  as  the  vessel  by  which  it  is 
conveyed  is  just  going  down  the  river. 

Pray  for  us  and  our  little  church. 

June  15.  According  to  the  purpose  mentioned  under  the 
last  date,  Mah  Myat-lah  received  baptism,  about  sunset,  at 
the  usual  place. 

July  3.  Moung  Thah-lah  was  married  to  a  woman  resi- 
dent in  our  yard,  a  usual  attendant  on  public  worship  —  the 
event  somewhat  noticeable,  as  being  probably  the  first  Chris- 
tian marriage  ever  performed  between  persons  of  pure  Bur- 
man  extraction. 

July  14.  The  first  day  of  Burmese  Lent.  The  "Woon- 
gyee-gah-dau,  notwithstanding  all  she  has  heard  from  Mrs. 
Judson,  set  out  most  zealously  in  her  course  of  religious  per- 
formances, and  the  whole  town  seems  to  be  following  her 
example. 

Many  cases  of  hopeful  inquiry,  and  interesting  religious 
conversation,  have  occurred  within  the  last  month  ;  but  they 


PAIXFUL    TRIALS.  301 

passed  away  without  much  apparent  fruit,  and  are  therefore 
not  worthy  of  notice.  Moung  Long  and  his  wife  are  the 
most  promising  at  present ;  and  I  begin  to  indulge  some  slight 
hope  that  they  will  obtain  divine  grace. 

In  the  interval  of  receiving  company,  I  have  lately  been 
employed  in  translating;  have  finished  the  Gospel  and  Epistles 
of  John,  those  exquisitely  sweet  and  precious  portions  of  the 
New  Testament,  and  am  now  employed  on  the  latter  part  of 
Acts.  I  find  Moung  Shwa-ba  a  most  valuable  assistant  in  all 
parts  of  missionary  w^ork.  Moung  Shwa-gnong  also  begins 
"  to  be  dissatisfied  with  being  a  mere  disciple,  and  hopes  that 
he  shall  some  time  be  thought  worthy  of  being  a  teacher  of 
the  Christian  religion."  These  two,  w^ith  Mah  Men-la,  are, 
at  present,  the  flower  of  our  little  church.  I  have  no  reason, 
however,  to  complain  of  the  conduct  of  any,  considering  the 
great  disadvantages  under  which  they  all  labor.  Some  have 
grown  comparatively  cold,  but  none  have  forgotten  their  first 
love.     Praise  forever  be  to  Him 

• 
"  'SMio  is  faithful  to  his  promises, 
And  faithful  to  his  Son." 

August  4.  Am  just  recovering  from  the  second  fit  of  sick- 
ness which  I  have  had  this  season.  The  first  was  the  cholera 
morbus ;  the  present  has  been  a  fever.  The  second  day  after 
I  was  taken,  Mrs.  Judson  was  taken  with  the  same ;  and  for 
several  days  Ave  lay  side  by  side,  unable  to  help  one  another. 
Through  divine  mercy,  however,  we  contrived  to  get  our 
medicines  from  time  to  time,  and  are  now  in  a  convalescent 
state,  so  far  as  the  fever  is  concerned.  Mrs.  Judson,  however, 
is  suffering  severely  under  the  liver  complaint,  which,  notwith- 
standing continual  salivations,  is  making  such  rapid  and  alarm- 
ing advances  as  to  preclude  all  hope  of  her  recovery  in  this 
part  of  the  world. 

August  6.  Came  to  a  final  conclusion  to  send  Mrs.  Jud- 
son to  America,  for  the  reasons  assigned  in  a  letter  to  the 
corresponding  secretary,  accompanying  this  number. 

August  21.     Mrs.  Judson  embarked  for  Bengal. 
VOL.  I.  2G 


302  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

On  the  occasion  of  Mrs.  Judson's  sailing  for  Cal- 
cutta, and  probably  for  America,  Mr.  Judson  wrote  as 
follows  to  Mr.  Hough,  under  date  of  August  13, 
1821:  — 

My  dear  Brother  Hough  :  I  send  you  herewith  Mrs, 
Judson,  and  all  that  remains  of  the  blue  pill  and  senna,  and 
beg  you  will  see  the  artieles  all  well  packed  and  shipped  for 
America  by  the  earliest  safe  opportunity.  Whatever  ex- 
penses may  be  incurred  be  so  good  as  to  defray  from  your 
own  funds,  and  transmit  your  bill  to  me. 

It  is  said  that  man  is  prone  to  jest  in  the  depth  of  misery  ; 
and  the  bon-mots  of  the  scaffold  have  been  collected  :  you 
may  add  the  above  specimen  to  the  list  if  you  like.  I  feel  as 
if  I  was  on  the  scaffold,  and  signing,  as  it  were,  ray  own  death 
warrant.  However,  two  years  will  pass  away  at  last.  Time 
and  tide  wait  for  no  man,  heedless  alike  of  our  joys  and 
sorrows. 

When  I  last  wrote,  I  was  in  the  latter  part  of  Acts ;  since 
that  time,  I  have  done  nothing  at  all.  For  ten  days  or  a  fort- 
night we  were  laid  by  with  fever,  unable  to  help  one  another, 
and  no  living  soul  to  depend  on  but  Emily  ;  and  since  we  be- 
came convalescent,  I  have  been  occupied  in  making  up  my 
mind  to  have  my  riglit  arm  amputated,  and  my  right  eye 
extracted,  which  the  doctors  say  are  necessary  in  order  to  pre- 
vent a  decay  and  mortification  of  the  whole  body  conjugal. 

Extract  from  a  Letter  to  Mrs.  Judsoii. 

I  wish  I  could  always  feel  as  I- did  last  evening,  and  have 
this  morning.  At  first,  on  hearing  Moung  Shwa-gnong's 
story,  I  felt  much  disheartened,  and  thought  how  pleasant  it 
would  be  if  \ye  could  find  some  quiet  resting-place  on  earth, 
where  we  might  spend  the  rest  of  our  days  together  in  peace, 
and  perform  the  ordinary  services  of  religion.  But  I  fied  to 
Jesus,  and  all  such  thoughts  soon  passed  away.  Life  is  short. 
Happiness  consists  not  in  outward  circumstances.     Millions  of 


MRS.  JUDSON  S  RETURN  TO  UNITED  STATES.     606 

Burraans  are  perishing.  I  am  almost  the  only  person  on 
earth  who  has  attained  their  language  to  such  a  degree  as  to 
be  able  to  communicate  the  way  of  salvation.  How  great  are 
my  obligations  to  spend  and  be  spent  for  Christ!  What  a 
privilege  to  be  allowed  to  serve  him  in  such  interesting  cir- 
cumstances, and  to  suffer  for  him  !  The  heavenly  glory  is  at 
hand.  O,  let  me  travel  through  this  country,  and  bear  testi- 
mony to  the  truth  all  the  way  from  Rangoon  to  Ava,  and  show 
the  path  to  that  glory  which  I  am  anticijDating.  O,  if  Christ 
will  only  sanctify  me  and  strengthen  me,  I  feel  that  I  can  do  all 
things.  But  in  myself  I  am  absolute  nothingness  ;  and  when 
through  grace  I  get  a  glimpse  of  divine  things,  I  tremble  lest 
the  next  moment  will  snatch  it  quite  away. 

Let  us  pray  especially  for  one  another's  growth  in  grace. 
Let  me  pray  that  the  trials  which  we  respectively  are  called 
to  endure  may  wean  us  from  the  world,  and  rivet  our  hearts 
on  things  above.  Soon  we  shall  be  in  heaven.  O,  let  us 
live  as  we  shall  then  wish  we  had  done.  Let  us  be  humble, 
unaspiring,  indifferent  equally  to  worldly  comfort  and  the  ap- 
plause of  men,  absorbed  in  Christ,  the  uncreated  Fountain  of 
all  excellence  and  glor}\ 

Mrs.  Judson  took  passage  at  Calcutta  for  London, 
and  arrived  there  in  greatly  improved  health.  Li 
Great  Britain  she  was  received  by  Christians  of  all 
persuasions  with  every  mark  of  affectionate  and  re- 
spectful attention.  She  was  domesticated  for  some 
time  in  the  family  of  Mr.  Butterworth,  member  of 
Parliament,  who,  referring  to  the  fact,  at  a  public 
meeting,  remarked,  that  her  visit  reminded  him  of 
the  apostolic  admonition  ;  "  Be  not  forgetful  to  enter- 
tain strangers,  for  thereby  some  have  entertained  an- 
gels unawares."  From  England  she  proceeded  to  this 
country,  where  she  arrived  September  25,  1822.  On 
the  22d  of  June,  1823,  she  sailed  for  Calcutta  in  the 
ship  Edward  Newton,  accompanied  by  the  Rev.  Jona- 


304  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

than  Wade  and  his  wife,  Mrs.  Deborah  Wade,  who 
had  recently  been  appointed  missionaries  to  Burniah. 
The  company  arrived  at  Calcutta  on  the  19th  of 
October,  and  reached  Rangoon  on  the  5th  of  Decem- 
ber, 1823. 

It  was  my  good  fortune  to  become  intimately  ac- 
quainted with  Mrs.  Judson  during  this  visit  to  the  United 
States.  I  do  not  remember  ever  to  have  met  a  more  re- 
markable woman.  To  great  clearness  of  intellect,  large 
powers  of  comprehension,  and  intuitive  female  sagacity, 
ripened  by  the  constant  necessity  of  independent  ac- 
tion, she  added  that  heroic  disinterestedness  which 
naturally  loses  all  consciousness  of  self  in  the  prosecu- 
tion of  a  great  object.  These  elements,  however, 
were  all  held  in  reserve,  and  were  hidden  from  public 
view  by  a  veil  of  unusual  feminine  delicacy.  To 
an  ordinary  observer,  she  would  have  appeared  simply 
a  self-possessed,  well-bred,  and  very  intelligent  gen- 
tlewoman. A  more  intimate  acquaintance  would 
soon  discover  her  to  be  a  person  of  profound  religious 
feeling,  which  was  ever  manifesting  itself  in  efforts  to 
impress  upon  others  the  importance  of  personal  piety. 
The  resources  of  her  nature  were  never  unfolded  until 
some  occasion  occurred  which  demanded  delicate  tact, 
unflinching  courage,  and  a  power  of  resolute  endurance 
even  unto  death.  When  I  saw  her,  her  complexion 
bore  that  sallow  hue  which  commonly  follows  resi- 
dence in  the  East  Indies.  Her  countenance  at  first 
seemed,  when  in  repose,  deficient  in  expression.  As 
she  found  herself  among  friends  who  were  interested 
in  the  Burman  mission,  her  reserve  melted  away,  her 
eye  kindled,  every  feature  was  lighted  up  with  enthu- 
siasm, and  she  was  every  where  acknowledged  to  be 
one  of  the  most  fascinating  of  women. 


ADVANCEMENT    OF    THE    MISSION.  305 

After  the  departure  of  Mrs.  Judson,  Mr.  Judson  was 
left  for  a  while  entirely  alone  in  the  mission.  He  de- 
voted himself  with  redoubled  energy  to  the  translation 
of  the  New  Testament,  and  the  labors  of  the  zayat. 
When  the  vigilance  of  persecution  relaxed,  and  the 
opportunities  for  preaching  were  more  favorable,  the 
greater  part  of  his  time  was  employed  in  imparting 
religious  instruction.  When  some  untoward  expres- 
sion of  the  Burinan  magistrates  intimidated  inquirers, 
he  turned  with  the  greater  earnestness  to  the  work  of 
translation. 

On  the  loth  of  December,  1821,  Rev.  Jonathan 
Price,  M.  D.,  a  missionary  physician  recently  appoint- 
ed by  the  board,  arrived  with  his  family  at  Rangoon. 
On  the  20th  of  January,  1822,  Mr.  Hough  and  his 
family  joined  them  from  Calcutta,  to  unite  again  in 
missionary  labors. 

At  this  period  of  the  mission,  all  the  appearances 
were  exceedingly  encouraging.  The  knowledge  of 
the  Christian  religion  was  silently  insinuating  itself 
among  the  people  of  Rangoon  and  the  surrounding 
villages,  and  it  was  producing  its  legitimate  effect  —  the 
turning  of  men  from  idols  to  the  living  God.  Before 
the  close  of  the  summer,  eighteen  native  Burmans  in 
the  whole  had  been  baptized  into  the  name  of  the 
Father,  and  the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost ;  and  all  but 
two  had  maintained  an  irreproachable  Christian  pro- 
fession. It  seemed  that  nothing  was  needed  but  tol- 
eration to  enable  true  religion  to  spread  througfiout 
the  empire. 

Dr.  Price  immediately  commenced  the  practice  of 

his  profession  in   Rangoon.      His  success  in    several 

operations,   specially  on  the  eyes  of   those   suffering 

from  cataract,  was  made  known  in  Ava ;  and  on  the 

2G* 


306  MEMOIR    OF    DR.   JUDSON. 

20th  of  July,  only  seven  months  after  his  arrival,  an 
order  was  received  from  the  king,  summoning  him  to 
the  capital,  on  account  of  his  medical  skill.  Mr.  Judson 
was  of  course  obliged  to  accompany  him,  though  the 
step  was  most  repugnant  to  his  feelings.  He  had 
proceeded  in  his  translation  of  the  New  Testament,  as 
far  as  the  Epistle  to  the  Romans  ;  and  being  the  only 
person  then  living  capable  of  completing  the  work, 
aware  of  the  uncertainty  of  life,  he  earnestly  desired 
to  proceed  in  it  without  delay.  The  path  of  duty, 
however,  seemed  to  be  plainly  marked  out,  and,  on  the 
28th  of  August,  1822,  the  two  missionaries  left  Ran- 
goon in  a  boat  furnished  at  the  government  expense, 
and  arrived  at  Ava  on  the  27th  of  September. 

The  following  extracts  from  Mr.  Judson's  journal 
relate  the  most  important  incidents  of  this  second 
visit  to  the  capital  of  the  empire. 

Jour7ial  C07itinued. 

After  much  tedious  detention,  resulting  from  our  connection 
with  government,  brother  Price  and  myself  set  out  from  Ran- 
goon on  the  28th  of  August,  in  a  boat  furnished  at  the  public 
expense,  and  on  the  27th  of  September  reached  Ava,  the 
present  capital,  a  few  miles  below  A-ma-ra-poo-ra.  We 
were  immediately  introduced  to  the  king,  who  received  brother 
Price  very  graciously,  and  made  many  inquiries  about  his 
medical  skill,  but  took  no  notice  of  me,  except  as  interpreter. 
The  a-twen-woon  Moung  Zah,  however,  immediately  recog- 
nized me,  made  a  few  inquiries  about  my  welfare,  in  presence 
of  the  king,  and,  after  his  majesty  had  withdrawn,  conversed 
a  little  on  religious  subjects,  and  gave  me  some  private  encour- 
agement to  remain  at  the  capital. 

October  1.  To-day  the  king  noticed  me  for  the  first  time, 
though  I  liave  appeared  before  him  nearly  every  day  since  our 
arrival.     After  making  some  inquiries,  as  usual,  about  brother 


SECOND    VISIT    TO    AVA.  307 

Price,  he  added,  "  And  you  in  black,  what  are  you  ?  A  medi- 
cal man,  too?"  "  Not  a  medical  man,  but  a  teacher  of  reli- 
gion, your  mnjesty."  lie  proceeded  to  make  a  few  inquiries 
about  my  religion,  and  then  put  the  alarming  question  whether 
any  had  embraced  it.  I  evaded,  by  saying,  "  Not  here."  He 
persisted.  "  Are  there  any  in  Rangoon  ?  "  "  There  are  a  few." 
"  Are  they  foreigners  ?  "  I  trembled  for  the  consequences  of 
an  answer,  which  might  involve  the  little  church  in  ruin  ;  but 
the  truth  must  be  sacrificed,  or  the  consequences  hazarded,  and 
I  therefore  replied,  "  There  are  some  foreigners,  and  some 
Burmans."  He  remained  silent  a  few  moments,  but  presently 
showed  that  he  was  not  displeased,  by  asking  a  great  variety 
of  questions  on  religion,  and  geography,  and  astronomy,  some 
of  which  were  answered  in  such  a  satisfactory  manner  as  to 
occasion  a  general  expression  of  approbation  in  all  the  court 
present.  After  his  majesty  retired,  a  than-dau-sen  (a  royal 
secretary)  entered  into  conversation,  and  allowed  me  to  expa- 
tiate on  several  topics  of  the  Christian  religion,  in  my  usual 
way.  And  all  this  took  place  in  the  hearing  of  the  very  man, 
now  an  a-twen-woon,  who,  many  years  ago,  caused  his  uncle  to 
be  tortured  almost  to  death  under  the  iron  mall,  for  renoun- 
cing Boodhism,  and  embracing  the  Roman  Catholic  religion; 
but  I  knew  it  not  at  the  time,  though,  from  his  age,  a  slight 
suspicion  of  the  truth  passed  across  my  mind.  Thanks  to 
God  for  the  encouragement  of  this  day !  The  monarch  of 
the  empire  has  distinctly  understood  that  some  of  his  subjects 
have  embraced  the  Christian  religion,  and  his  wrath  has  been 
restrained.  Let  us,  then,  hope  that,  as  he  becomes  more 
acquainted  with  the  excellence  of  the  religion,  he  will  be 
more  and  more  willing  that  his  subjects  should  embrace  it. 

October  3.  Left  the  boat,  and  moved  into  the  house  ordered 
to  be  erected  for  us  by  the  king.  A  mere  temporary  shed, 
however,  it  proves  to  be,  scarcely  sufficient  to  screen  us  from 
the  gaze  of  people  without,  or  from  the  rain  above.  It  is  sit- 
uated near  the  present  palace,  and  joins  the  enclosure  of 
Prince  M.,  eldest  half  brother  of  the  king. 

October  4.      On  our  return  from  the  palace,  whither  we  go 


308  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

every  morning  after  breakfast,  Prince  M.  sent  for  me.  I 
had  seen  him  once  before,  in  company  with  brother  Price, 
whom  he  called  for  medical  advice.  To-day  he  wished  to 
converse  on  science  and  religion.  He  is  a  fine  young  man  of 
twenty-eight,  but  greatly  disfigured  by  a  paralytic  affection  of 
the  arms  and  legs.  Being  cut  off  from  the  usual  sources  of 
amusement,  and  having  associated  a  little  with  the  Portuguese 
padres  who  have  lived  at  Ava,  he  has  acquired  a  strong  taste 
for  foreign  science.  My  communications  interested  him  very 
much,  and  I  found  it  difficult  to  get  away,  until  brother  Price 
sent  expressly  for  me  to  go  again  to  the  palace. 

October  15.  For  ten  days  past,  have  been  confined  with 
the  fever  and  ague.  To-day,  just  able  to  go  to  the  palace, 
and  have  a  little  conversation  with  some  of  the  court  officers. 
Afterwards  visited  Prince  M. 

October  16.  Had  a  very  interesting  conversation,  in  the 
palace,  with  two  of  the  a-twen-woons  and  several  officers,  on 
the  being  of  God,  and  other  topics  of  the  Christian  religion. 
Some  of  them  manifested  a  spirit  of  candor  and  free  inquiry, 
which  greatly  encouraged  me. 

October  21.  Visited  the  a-twen-woon  Moung  Zah,  and  had 
a  long  conversation  on  the  religion  and  customs  of  foreigners, 
in  which  I  endeavored  to  communicate  as  much  as  possible  of 
the  gospel.  Upon  the  whole,  he  appeared  to  be  rather  favor- 
ably disposed,  and,  on  my  taking  leave,  invited  me  respect- 
fully to  visit  him  occasionally.  Thence  I  proceeded  to  the 
palace,  but  met  with  nothing  noticeable,  and  thence  to  the 
house  of  Prince  M.,  w^ith  whom  I  had  an  hour's  uninterrupted 
conversation.  But  I  am  sorry  to  find  that  he  is  rather  amused 
with  the  information  I  give  him,  than  disposed  to  consider  it 
a  matter  of  personal  concern.  I  presented  him  with  a  tract, 
which  he  received  as  a  favor ;  and  finally  I  ventured  to  ask 
liim  whether  Burman  subjects  who  should  consider  and  em- 
brace the  Christian  religion  would  be  liable  to  persecution. 
He  replied,  "  Not  under  the  reign  of  my  brother.  He  has  a 
good  heart,  and  wishes  all  to  believe  and  worship  as  they 
please." 


SECOND    VISIT    TO    AVA.  309 

October  22.  Brother  Price  Avent  to  A-ma-ra-poo-ra,  to 
meet  a  gentleman  just  arrived  from  Rangoon,  who,  we  hope, 
may  have  letters  for  iis.  Made  an  introductory  visit  to  Prince 
T.,  second  own  brother  of  the  king.  lie  received  me  with  tlie 
affability  which  characterizes  his  intercourse  with  foreigners. 
At  night  brother  Price  returned,  with  a  large  parcel  of  letters, 
and  magazines,  and  newspapers  from  our  beloved,  far-distant 
native  land,  and,  what  was  still  more  interesting  to  me,  eight 
sheets  from  Mrs.  Judson,  on  her  passage  towards  England  — 
the  first  direct  intelligence  I  have  received  from  her  since 
she  left  Madras  roads.  The  divine  blessing  appears  to  have 
crowned  her  efforts,  and  those  of  the  pious  captain  of  the  ship,  to 
the  hopeful  conversion  of  several  souls,  and,  among  others,  the 
ladies  of  a  family  of  rank,  her  fellow-passengers.  At  the  last 
date,  April  24,  she  was  under  the  line,  in  the  Atlantic,  and 
experienced  a  slight  return  of  her  complaint,  after  having  long 
indulged  the  hope  that  it  was  completely  removed.  A  single 
line  from  Bengal  informs  me  of  the  death  of  our  dear  brother 
Colman,  but  leaves  me  ignorant  of  all  the  particulars.  May 
our  bereaved  sister  be  supported  under  this  heaviest  of  all 
afflictions ;  and  may  the  severe  loss  which  the  mission  has 
sustained  be  sanctified  to  us  all. 

October  23.  Had  some  pleasant  conversation  with  Moung 
Zah  in  the  palace,  partly  in  the  hearing  of  the  king.  At  length 
his  majesty  came  forward,  and  honored  me  with  some  personal 
notice  for  the  second  time,  inquired  much  about  my  country, 
and  authorized  me  to  invite  American  ships  to  his  dom.inions, 
assuring  them  of  protection,  and  offering  every  facility  for  the 
purposes  of  trade. 

October  24.  Visited  Moung  Zah  at  his  house.  He  treated 
me  with  great  reserve,  and  repelled  all  attempts  at  conversa- 
tion. Afterwards  called  on  Prince  M.,  and  spent  a  long  time 
with  him  and  the  officers  in  waiting.  The  whole  tract  was 
read  before  them  by  one  of  the  secretaries.  In  the  afternoon, 
went  out  of  town,  to  visit  Moung  Shwa-thah,  former  viceroy 
of  Rangoon.  During  our  absence.  Prince  M.  sent  to  our 
house  to  call  me,  saying  that  a  learned  pundit  was  in  attend- 


310  MEMOIR    OF    DE.    JUDSON. 

ance,  with  Avliom  he  wished  to  hear  me  converse.  I  mention 
the  circumstance  as  somewhat  indicative  of  the  prince's  mind. 

October  26.  While  I  lay  ill  with  the  fever  and  ague,  some 
days  ago,  a  young  man,  brother  of  an  officer  of  Prince  M., 
visited  me,  and  listened  to  a  considerable  exposition  of  gospel 
truth.  Since  then  he  has  occasionally  called,  and  manifested 
a  desire  to  hear  and  know  more.  This  evening  he  came  to 
attend  our  evening  worship,  and  remained  conversing  till  nine 
o'clock.  I  hope  that  light  is  dawning  on  his  mind.  He  desires 
to  know  the  truth,  appears  to  be,  in  some  degree,  sensible  of 
his  sins,  and  has  some  slight  apprehension  of  the  love  and 
grace  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

October  28.  Spent  the  forenoon  wdth  Prince  M.  He  ob- 
tained, for  the  first  time,  (though  I  have  explained  it  to  him 
many  times,)  some  view  of  the  nature  of  the  atonement,  and 
cried  out,  "  Good  !  good  !  "  He  then  proposed  a  tiumber  of 
objections,  which  I  removed  to  his  apparent  satisfaction.  Our 
subsequent  conversation  turned,  as  usual,  on  points  of  geog- 
raphy and  astronomy.  He  candidly  acknowledged  that  he 
could  not  resist  my  arguments  in  favor  of  the  Copernican 
system,  and  that,  if  he  admitted  them,  he  must  also  admit 
that  the  Boodhist  system  was  overthrown.  In  the  afternoon, 
visited  Prince  T.     A  hopeless  case. 

October  29.  Made  an  introductory  visit  to  the  Great 
Prince,  so  called  by  way  of  eminence,  being  the  only  brother 
of  the  queen,  and  sustaining  the  rank  of  chief  a-twen-woon. 
Have  frequently  met  him  at  the  palace,  where  he  has  treated 
me  rather  uncourteously ;  and  my  reception  to-day  was  such 
as  I  had  too  much  reason  to  ex^DCct. 

October  30.  Spent  part  of  the  forenoon  with  Prince  M. 
and  his  wife,  the  Princess  of  S.,  own  sister  of  the  king. 
Gave  her  a  copy  of  Mrs.  Judson's  Burman  catechism,  with 
which  she  was  much  pleased.  They  both  appear  to  be  some- 
what attached  to  me,  and  say,  "  Do  not  return  to  Rangoon^ 
but,  when  your  wife  arrives,  call  her  to  Ava.  The  king  will 
give  you  a  piece  of  ground  on  which  to  build  a  kyoung  "  (a 
house  appropriated  to  the  residence  of  sacred  characters.)     In 


SECOND    VISIT    TO    AVA.  311 

liey  sent  for  me  again,  cliiefly  on  account  of  an 
officer  of  government,  to  whom  they  wished  to  introduce  me. 

October  31.  Visited  the  a-twen-woon  Moung  K.,  whom  I 
have  frequently  met  at  the  palace,  who  has  treated  me  with 
distinguished  candor.  He  received  me  very  politely,  and, 
laying  aside  his  official-  dignity,  entered  into  a  most  spirited 
dispute  on  various  points  of  religion.  He  pretended  to  main- 
tain his  ground  without  the  shadow  of  doubt ;  but  I  am 
inclined  to  think  that  he  has  serious  doubts.  We  parted  in  a 
very  friendly  manner,  and  he  invited  me  to  visit  him  occa- 
sionally. 

November  12.  Spent  the  whole  forenoon  with  Prince  M. 
and  his  wife.  Made  a  fuller  disclosure  than  ever  before  of 
the  nature  of  the  Christian  religion,  the  object  of  Christians 
in  sending  me  to  this  country,  my  former  repulse  at  court 
and  the  reason  of  it,  our  exposure  to  persecution  in  Rangoon, 
the  affair  of  Moung  Shwa-gnong,  &c.,  &:c.  They  entered 
into  my  views  and  feelings  with  considerable  interest ;  but 
both  said,  decidedly,  that,  though  the  king  would  not  himself 
persecute  any  one  on  account  of  religion,  he  would  not  give 
any  order  exempting  from  persecution,  but  would  leave  his 
subjects,  throughout  the  emjDire,  to  the  regular  administration 
of  the  local  authorities. 

After  giving  the  prince  a  succinct  account  of  my  religious 
experience,  I  ventured  to  warn  him  of  his  danger,  and  urge 
him  to  make  the  Christian  religion  his  immediate  personal 
concern.  He  appeared,  for  a  moment,  to  feel  the  force  of 
what  I  said,  but  soon  replied,  "I  am  yet  young  —  only  twenty- 
eight.  I  am  desirous  of  studying  all  the  foreign  arts  and  sci- 
ences. My  mind  will  then  be  enlarged,  and  I  shall  be  capa- 
ble of  judging  whether  the  Christian  religion  be  true  or  not." 
"  But  suppose  your  highness  changes  worlds  in  the  mean 
time."  His  countenance  again  fell.  "It  is  true,"  said  he, 
"  I  know  not  when  I  shall  die."  I  suggested  tlmt  it  would  be 
well  to  pray  to  God  for  light,  which,  if  obtained,  would 
enable  him  at  once  to  distinguish  between  truth  and  falsehood  ; 
and  so  we  parted.     O  Fountain  of  Light,  shed  down  one  ray 


312  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

into  tlie  mind  of  this  amiable  prince,  that  lie  may  become  a 
patron  of  thine  infant  cause,  and  inherit  an  eternal  crown. 

November  14.  Another  interview  with  Prince  M.  He 
seemed,  at  one-  time,  almost  ready  to  give  up  the  religion  of 
Gaudama,  and  listened  with  much  eagerness  and  pleasure  to 
the  evidences  of  the  Christian  religion.  But  presently  two 
Burman  teachers  came  in,  with  whom  he  immediately  joined, 
and  contradicted  all  I  said. 

November  18.  Visited  the  Princess  of  T.,  at  her  particu- 
lar request.  She  is  the  eldest  own  sister  of  the  king,  and 
therefore,  according  to  Burman  laws,  consigned  to  perpetual 
celibacy.  She  had  heard  of  me  from  her  brother-in-law 
Prince  M.,  and  wished  to  converse  on  science  and  religion. 
Her  chief  officer  and  the  mayor  of  the  city  were  present ; 
and  we  carried  on  a  desultory  conversation,  such  as  necessa- 
rily takes  place  on  the  first  interview.  Her  highness  treated 
me  with  uncommon  affability  and  respect,  and  invited  me  to 
call  frequently. 

November  26.  Have  been  confined  since  the  21st  with  a 
third  attack  of  the  fever  and  ague.  To-day,  went  to  the  pal- 
ace, and  presented  a  petition  for  a  certain  piece  of  ground 
within  the  walls  of  the  town,  "  to  build  a  kyoung  on."  The 
king  granted  it,  on  condition  that  the  ground  should  be  found 
unoccupied. 

November  28.  Spent  the  whole  day  at  the  palace,  in 
endeavoring  to  secure  the  ground  petitioned  for.  At  night, 
the  land  measurer  general's  secretary  accompanied  me  to 
ascertain  the  premises,  and  make  out  a  plan  of  the  place. 

November  29.  The  land  measurer  general  reported  to  the 
a-twen-woons  that  the  ground  was  not  actually  occupied,  but, 
having  been  the  site  of  a  kyoung  when  formerly  the  city  was 
the  seat  of  government,  must  be  considered  sacred  and  unalien- 
able ;  in  which  opinion  nearly  all  the  a-twen-woons  coincided, 
notwithstanding  the  king's  decision  to  the  contrary.  - 

Had  an  interesting  interview  with  Prince  M.,  and  presented 
him  with  a  copy  of  the  three  last  chapters  of  Mattliew,  in 
compliance  with  his  wish  to  have  an  account  of  the  death  and 


SECOND    VISIT    TO    AVA.  313 

resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ.  Tie  appeared  concerned  for  our 
failure  to-day  in  the  privy  council,  but  still  maintained  that, 
though  the  ground  was  sacred,  it  might  with  propriety  be 
given  to  a  priest,  though  not  a  priest  of  Gaudama,  and  advised 
me  to  make  another  application  to  the  king. 

December  25.  I  have  had  nothing  scarcely  of  a  mission- 
ary nature  to  notice  since  the  last  date,  having  been  employed, 
most  of  the  time,  (that  is,  in  the  intervals  of  two  more  attacks 
of  fever  and  ague,)  in  endeavoring  to  procure  a  piece  of 
ground  within  the  city,  but  have  been  defeated  at  every  point. 
At  one  time,  I  had  received  the  king's  iDOsitive  order  for  the 
place  above  mentioned,  and,  at  considerable  expense,  passed 
it  through  the  privy  council  and  the  supreme  court  as  far  as 
the  chief  woon-gyee ;  but,  as  soon  as  he  saw  it,  he  disputed 
its  propriety ;  and  at  the  next  morning  levee,  which  he  sum- 
moned me  to  attend,  he  civilly  told  his  majesty  that  the 
ground  was  sacred,  and  ought  not  to  be  given  away.  Three 
of  the  a-twen-woons  joined  him.  The  king  at  first  remained 
silent,  but  at  length  said,  "  Well,  give  him  some  vacant  spot." 
And  thus  was  the  order  cancelled.  As  for  the  vacant  spot, 
if  we  are  debarred  all  sacred  ground,  I  believe  it  will  be 
impossible  to  find  it  within  the  walls  either  of  the  inner  or 
the  outer  city,  such  is  the  immense  demand  for  places,  occa- 
sioned by  the  perpetual  emigration  from  the  old  city. 

In  prosecuting  this  business,  I  had  one  noticeable  interview 
with  the  king.  Brother  Price  and  two  English  gentlemen 
were  present.  The  king  appeared  to  be  attracted  by  our 
number,  and  came  towards  us  ;  but  his  conversation  was  di- 
rected chiefly  to  me.  He  again  inquired  about  the  Burmans 
who  had  embraced  my  religion.  "  Are  they  real  Burmans  ? 
Do  they  dress  like  other  Burmans  ?  "  &c.  I  had  occasion  to 
remark  that  I  preached  every  Sunday.  "  What !  in  Bur- 
man  ?  "  "  Yes."  "  Let  us  hear  how  you  preach."  I  hesitated. 
An  a-twen-woon  repeated  the  order.  I  began  with  a  form  of 
worship  which  first  ascribes  glory  to  God,  and  then  declares 
the  commands  of  the  law  of  the  gospel ;  after  which  I 
stopped.  "  Go  on,"  said  another  a-twen-woon.  The  whole  court 
VOL.  I.  27 


314  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSOX. 

was  profoundly  silent.  I  proceeded  "with  a  few  sentences,  de- 
clarative of  the  perfections  of  God,  when  his  majesty's  curios- 
ity was  satisfied,  and  he  interrupted  me.  In  the  course  of 
subsequent  conversation,  he  asked  what  I  liad  to  say  of  Gau- 
dama.  I  replied,  that  we  all  knew  he  was  the  son  of  King 
Thog-dan-dah-nah  ;  that  we  regarded  him  as  a  wise  man  and 
a  great  teacher,  but  did  not  call  him  God.  "  That  is  right," 
said  Moung  K.  N.,  an  a-twen-woon  who  has  not  hitherto  ap- 
peared very  friendly  to  me.  And  he  proceeded  to  relate  the 
substance  of  a  long  communication  which  I  lately  made  to 
him,  in  the  privy  council  room,  about  God  and  Christ,  &c. 
And  this  he  did  in  a  very  clear  and  satisfactory  manner,  so 
that  I  had  scarcely  a  single  correction  to  make  in  his  state- 
ment. Moung  Zah,  encouraged  by  all  this,  really  began  to  take 
the  side  of  God  before  his  majesty,  and  said,  "  Nearly  all  the 
world,  your  majesty,  believe  in  an  eternal  God,  all,  except 
Burmah  and  Siam,  these  little  spots  !  "  His  majesty  remained 
silent,  and  after  some  other  desultory  inquiries,  he  abruptly 
arose,  and  retired. 

January  2,  1823.  To-day  I  informed  the  king  that  it  was 
my  intention  to  return  to  Rangoon.  "  Will  you  proceed 
thence  to  your  own  country  ?  "  "  Only  to  Rangoon."  His 
majesty  gave  an  acquiescing  nod.  The  a-twen-woon  Moung 
Zah  inquired,  "  Will  you  both  go,  'or  will  the  doctor  remain  ?  " 
I  said  that  he  would  remain.  Brother  Price  made  some  re- 
mark on  the  approaching  hot  season,  and  the  inconvenience 
of  our  present  situation  ;  on  which  Moung  Zah,  inferring  that 
it  was  on  account  of  the  climate  that  1  was  about  leaving, 
turned  to  me,  saying,  "  Then  you  will  return  here,  after  the 
hot  season."  I  looked  at  the  king,  and  said  that  if  it  was 
convenient,  I  would  return ;  which  his  majesty  again  sanc- 
tioned by  an  acquiescing  nod  and  smile,  and  in  reply  to  broth- 
er Price,  said,  "  Let  a  place  be  given  him."  Brother  Price, 
however,  thinks  of  retaining  the  small  place  on  which  we  now 
live  for  medical  purposes,  and  getting  a  place  at  Chagaing, 
on  the  opposite  side  of  the  river,  for  his  permanent  residence. 

In  the  evening,  had  a  long  conversation  with  Moung  Zah  on 


SECOND    VISIT    TO    AVA.  315 

religion.  He  believes  that  tliere  is  an  eternal  God,  and  that 
Gaudama,  and  Christ,  and  Mahomet,  and  others  are  great 
teachers,  who  communicated  as  much  truth  respectively  as 
thej  could,  but  that  their  communications  are  not  the  word 
of  God.  I  pressed  my  arguments  as  far  as  I  dared ;  but  he 
seemed  to  have  reflected  much  on  the  subject,  and  to  have 
become  quite  settled  and  inflexible  in  his  conclusions.  He 
may  be  called  a  deistic  Boodhist,  the  first  that  I  have  met  in 
the  country.  On  parting,  however,  he  remarked,  "  This  is  a 
deep  and  difficult  subject.  Do  you,  teacher,  consider  further, 
and  I  also  will  consider." 

January  7.  Among  the  many  places  which  I  endeavored 
in  vain  to  procure  was  a  small  one,  sufficient  for  one  family 
only,  pleasantly  situated  on  the  banks  of  the  river,  just  with- 
out the  walls  of  the  town,  and  about  a  mile  from  the  palace. 
But  it  had  been  appropriated  by  the  chief  woon-gyee,  and 
partly  fenced  in,  with  the  intention  of  building  a  temporary 
zayat  for  his  recreation  and  refreshment,  when  accompanying 
the  king  in  that  quarter  of  the  city,  and  was,  therefore,  placed 
beyond  any  reasonable  hope  of  attainment.  Among  other 
desperate  attempts,  however,  I  wrote  a  short  petition,  asking 
for  that  place,  and  begging  leave  to  express  my  gratitude,  by 
presenting  a  certain  sum  of  money.  It  was  necessary  to  put 
this  into  his  own  hand  ;  and  I  was,  therefore,  obliged  to  follow 
him  about,  and  watch  his  movements,  for  two  or  three  days, 
until  a  favorable  opportunity  occurred,  when  he  was  apart 
from  all  his  retinue.  I  seized  the  moment,  presented  myself 
before  him,  and  held  up  the  paper.  He  read  it,  and  smiled, 
'•  You  are  indefatigable  in  your  search  after  a  place.  But  you 
cannot  have  that.  It  is  for  my  own  use.  Nor,  if  otherwise, 
could  you  get  it  for  money.  Search  further."  I  now  con- 
cluded to  return  to  Rangoon  for  the  present,  and  wait  until 
the  town  should  be  settled,  when,  as  all  inform  me,  I  shall  be 
able  to  accommodate  myself  better.  I  accordingly  informed 
the  king  of  my  purpose,  as  mentioned  above,  and  began  to 
look  about  for  a  boat.  In  the  mean  time,  it  occurred  to  me 
to  make  a  "  seventh  attempt  to  fix  the  thread,"  and  I  sought 


316  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSOX. 

another  interview  with  the  chief  woon-gyee,  a  being  who  is 
really  more  difficult  of  access  than  the  Iving  himself.  This 
evening  I  was  so  fortunate  as  to  find  him  at  his  house,  lying 
down,  surrounded  by  forty  or  fifty  of  his  people.  I  pressed 
forward  into  the  foremost  rank,  and  placed  myself  in  a  prop- 
er attitude.  After  a  while,  his  eye  fell  upon  me,  and  I  held 
up  a  small  bottle  of  eau  de  luce,  and  desired  to  present  it. 
One  of  his  officers  carried  it  to  him.  He  happened  to  be  much 
pleased  with  it,  and  sat  upright.  "  What  kind  of  a  house  do 
you  intend  to  build  ?  "  I  told  him,  but  added,  "  I  have  no 
place  to  build  on,  my  lord."  He  remained  in  a  meditating 
attitude  a  few  moments,  and  then  suddenly  replied,  "  If  you 
want  the  little  enclosure,  tahe  it !  "  I  expressed  my  gratitude. 
He  began  to  take  more  notice  of  me,  inquired  about  my  char- 
acter and  profession,  and  then  entered,  with  considerable 
spirit,  on  the  subject  of  religion.  After  some  conversation, 
he  desired  a  specimen  of  my  mode  of  worship  and  preaching ; 
and  I  was  obliged  to  repeat  much  more  than  I  did  before  the 
king ;  for  whenever  I  desisted,  he  ordered  me  to  go  on. 
When  his  curiosity  was  satisfied,  he  lay  down,  and  I  quietly 
retired. 

January  8.  After  taking  the  best  advice,  Burman  and  for- 
eign, I  weighed  out  the  sum  of  money  mentioned  in  the  pri- 
vate petition,  together  with  the  estimated  expense  of  fencing 
the  place  given  me  by  the  woon-gyee,  and  in  the  evening,  car- 
ried it  to  his  house,  where  I  was  again  fortunate  in  finding 
him  in  the  same  position  as  yesterday  evening.  A  few  noble- 
men and  their  attendants  were  present,  which  prevented  me 
from  immediately  producing  the  money.  His  excellency 
soon  took  notice  of  me,  and  from  seven  o'clock  till  nine,  the 
time  was  chiefly  occupied  in  conversation  on  religious  sub- 
jects. I  found  opportunity  to  bring  forward  some  of  my  fa- 
vorite arguments,  one  of  which,  in  particular,  seemed  to  carry 
conviction  to  the  minds  of  all  present,  and  extorted  from  the 
great  man  an  expression  of  praise ;  such  praise,  however,  as 
is  indicative  of  surprise  rather  than  approbation.  When  the 
company  retired,  my  people  at  the  outer  door  overheard  one 


SECOND    VISIT    TO    AVA.  317 

say  to  another,  "  Is  it  not  pleasant  to  hear  this  foreign  teacher 
converse  on  rehgion  ?  "  "  Ay,"  said  the  other,  "  but  his  doc- 
trines are  derogatory  to  the  honor  of  Lord  Gaudama."  When 
they  were  gone,  I  presented  the  money,  saying  that  I  wished 
to  defray  the  expense  of  fencing  the  ground,  which  had  been 
graciously  given  me.  His  excellency  was  pleased  with  the 
offer,  but  gently  declined  accepting  any  thing.  He  then 
looked  steadily  at  me,  as  if  to  penetrate  into  the  motives  of 
my  conduct,  and  recollecting  the  manceuvres  of  the  first  Eng- 
lish settlers  in  Bengal,  thought  he  had  discovered  something. 
"  Understand,  teacher,  that  we  do  not  give  you  the  entire 
owning  of  this  ground.  We  take  no  recompense,  lest  it  be- 
come American  territory).  We  give  it  to  you  for  your  present 
residence  only,  and,  when  you  go  away,  shall  take  it  again." 
"When  I  go  away,  my  lord,  those  at  whose  expense  the 
house  is  to  be  built,  will  desire  to  place  another  teacher  in 
my  stead."  "  Very  well,  let  him  also  occupy  the  place  ;  but 
when  he  dies,  or  when  there  is  no  teacher,  we  will  take  it." 
'•  In  that  case,  my  lord,  take  it." 

January  10.  Spent  the  whole  of  yesterday  and  to-day 
with  various  secretaries  and  officers  of  government,  in  gettmg 
actual  possession  of  the  ground  given  me. 

January  13.  Built  a  small  house,  and  stationed  one  of  the 
disciples  and  family  to  keep  the  place  during  my  absence- 
January  18.  Removed  to  Chagaing,  into  a  house  which 
Prince  M.  has  allowed  brother  Price  to  build  on  his  ground, 
in  expectation  that  a  change  of  air  and  residence  would  re- 
lieve me  from  the  fevei'  and  ague,  under  which  I  suffer  nearly 
every  other  day.  It  is  my  intention,  however,  to  return  im- 
mediately to  Rangoon,  the  time  being  nearly  expired  which  I 
at  first  proposed  to  spend  in  Ava,  and  the  ends  for  which  I 
came  up  being  sufficiently  gained. 

January  22.  Took  leave  of  Prince  M.  He  desired  me  to 
return  soon,  and  bring  with  me  all  the  Christian  Scriptures, 
and  translate  them  into  Burman.  "  For,"  said  he,  "  I  wish  to 
read  them  all." 

January  24.     Went  to  take  leave  of  the  king,  in  company 
27  * 


318  MEMOIR    OF    DK.    JUDSON. 

with  Mr.  L.,  collector  of  tlie  port  of  Rangoon,  who  arrived 
last  evening.  We  sat  a  few  moments  conversing  together. 
"  What  are  you  talking  about  ?  "  said  his  majesty.  "  He  is 
speaking  of  his  return  to  Rangoon,"  replied  Mr.  L.  "  What 
does  he  return  for  ?  Let  him  not  return.  Let  them  both 
[that  is,  brother  Price  and  myself]  stay  together.  If  one 
goes  away,  the  other  must  remain  alone,  and  will  be  unhap- 
py." "  He  wishes  to  go  for  a  short  time  only,"  replied  Mr. 
L.,  to  bring  his  wife,  the  female  teacher,  and  his  goods,  not 
having  brought  any  thing  with  him  this  time  ;  and  he  will 
return  soon."  His  majesty  looked  at  me.  "  Will  you,  then, 
come  again  ?  "  I  replied  in  the  affirmative.  "  When  you 
come  again,  is  it  your  intention  to  remain  permanently,  or 
Avill  you  go  back  and  forth,  as  foreigners  commonly  do  ? " 
"  When  I  come  again,  it  is  my  intention  to  remain  perma- 
nently." "  Very  well,"  said  his  majesty,  and  withdrew  into 
his  inner  apartment. 

Heard  to-day  of  the  death  of  MahMyat-lah,  sister  of  Mah 
Men-la,  one  of  the  most  steadfast  of  the  church  in  Rangoon. 

January  25.  Embarked  on  a  small  boat,  intending  to  go 
day  and  night,  and  touch  nowhere,  in  order  to  avoid  the  rob- 
bers, of  which  we  have  lately  had  alarming  accounts. 

February  2,  Lord's  day.  At  one  o'clock  in  the  morning 
reached  Rangoon,  seven  days  from  Ava. 

The  Nan-dau-gong  disciples  soon  came  over  from  Dah-lah, 
on  the  opposite  side  of  the  river,  whither  they  and  the  Pah- 
tsooan-doung  disciples  and  inquirers  have  taken  refuge,  to 
escape  the  heavy  taxations  and  the  illegal  harassments  of 
every  kind,  allowed  under  the  new  viceroy  of  Rangoon.  Oth- 
ers of  the  disciples  have  fled  elsewhere,  so  that  there  is  not  a 
single  one  remaining  in  Rangoon,  except  three  or  four  with 
us.  The  Nan-dau-gong  disciples'  house  has  been  demolished, 
and  their  place  taken  by  government,  at  the  instigation  of 
their  neighbors,  who  hate  them  on  account  of  religion.  Mah 
Myat-la  died  before  the  removal.  Her  sister  gave  me  the 
particulars  of  her  death.  Some  of  her  last  expressions  were, 
"  I  put  my  trust  in  Jesus  Christ ;  I  love  to  pray  to   him ; 


TKOGRESS    OF    BURMESE    CHRISTIANS.  319 

am    not   afraid   of    death  ;    shall   soon   be   with    Christ   in 
heaven." 

A  letter  from  Mrs.  Judson,  in  England,  informs  me  that 
she  is  going  to  America,  and  will  not  be  here  under  several 
months.  I  propose,  therefore,  waiting  her  return,  and  occupy- 
ing the  interval  in  finishing  the  translation  of  the  New  Tes- 
tament. 

The  following  letter  from  Moung  Sh\va-ba  to  the 
Rev.  Dr.  Baldwin  furnishes  delightful  evidence  of  the 
progress  which  the  converts  had  already  made  in  the 
knowledge  of  the  gospel  and  the  practice  of  piety :  — 

Translation  of  a  Letter  icritten  by  Moung  Shica-ba  to  Rev.  Dr.  Baldwin. 
Moung  Slnva-ba,  an  inhabitant  of  Rangoon,  a  town  of 
Burmah,  one  who  adheres  to  the  religion  of  Christ,  and  has 
been  baptized  ;  who  meditates  on  the  immeasurable,  incalcu- 
lable nature  of  the  divine  splendor  and  glory  of  the  Invisible, 
even  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  God  the  Father,  and  takes 
refuge  in  the  wisdom,  and  j)ower,  and  glory  of  God,  affection- 
ately addresses  the  great  teacher  Baldwin,  a  superintendent 
of  missionary  affairs  in  the  city  of  Boston,  of  America. 

Beloved  elder  Brother  :  Though  in  the  present  state 
the  places  of  our  residence  are  very  far  apart,  and  we  have 
never  met,  yet,  by  means  of  letters,  and  of  the  words  of  Yood- 
than,  who  has  told  me  of  you,  I  love  you,  and  wish  to  send 
you  this  letter.  When  the  time  arrives  in  which  we  shall 
wholly  put  on  Christ,  —  him  in  loving  whom  we  cannot  tire, 
and  in  praising  A\hom  Ave  can  find  no  end,  —  and  shall  be 
adorned  with  those  ornaments  which  the  Lord  will  dispense 
to  us  out  of  the  heavenly  treasure  house  that  he  has  pre- 
pared, then  we  shall  love  one  another  more  perfectly  than  we 
do  now. 

Formerly  I  was  in  the  habit  of  concealing  my  sins,  that 
they  might  not  appear ;  but  I  am  now  convinced  that  I  can- 
not conceal  my  sins  from  the  Lord,  who  sees  and  knows  all 
things,  and  that  I  cannot  atone  for  them,  nor  obtain  atone- 


320  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

ment  from  my  former  ol)jects  of  worship.  And,  accordingly, 
I  count  myself  to  have  lost  all,  under  the  elements  of  the 
world,  and  through  the  grace  of  the  faith  of  Christ  only  to 
have  gained  the  spiritual  graces  and  rewards  pertaining  to 
eternity,  which  cannot  be  lost.  Therefore  I  have  no  ground 
for  boasting,  pride,  and  self-exaltation.  And,  without  de- 
siring the  praise  of  men,  or  seeking  my  own  will,  I  wish  to 
do  the  will  of  God  the  Father.  The  members  of  the  body, 
dead  in  trespasses  and  sins,  displeasing  to  God,  I  desire  to 
make  instruments  of  righteousness,  not  following  the  will  of 
the  flesh.  Worldly  desire  and  heavenly  desire  being  con- 
trary the  one  to  the  other,  and  the  desire  of  visible  things 
counteracting  the  desire  of  invisible  things,  I  am  as  a  dead 
man.  However,  he  quickens  the  dead,  he  awakens  those 
that  sleep,  he  lifts  up  those  that  fall,  he  opens  blind  eyes, 
he  perforates  deaf  ears,  he  lights  a  lamp  in  the  great  house 
of  darkness,  he  relieves  the  wretched,  he  feeds  the  hungry. 
The  words  of  such  a  Benefactor  if  we  reject,  Ave  must  die 
forever,  and  come  to  everlasting  destruction.  Which  circum- 
stance considering,  and  meditating  also  on  sickness,  old  age, 
and  death,  incident  to  the  present  state  of  mutability,  I  kneel 
and  prostrate  myself,  and  pray  before  God,  the  Father  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who  has  made  atonement  for  our  sins,  that 
he  may  have  mercy  on  me,  and  pardon  my  sins,  and  make  me 
holy,  and  give  me  a  rejDCnting,  believing,  and  loving  mind. 

Formerly  I  trusted  in  my  own  merits ;  but  now,  through 
the  preaching  and  instruction  of  teacher  Yoodthan,  I  trust  in 
the  merit  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  The  teacher,  therefore, 
is  the  tree  ;  we  are  the  blossoms  and  fruit.  He  has  labored 
to  partake  of  the  fruit,  and  now  the  tree  begins  to  bear.  The 
bread  of  life  he  has  given,  and  we  eat.  The  water  from  the 
brook  which  flows  from  the  top  of  Mount  Calvary,  for  the 
cleansing  of  all  filth,  he  has  brought,  and  made  us  bathe  and 
drink.  The  bread  of  which  we  eat  will  yet  ferment  and  rise. 
The  water  which  we  drink  and  bathe  in,  is  the  water  of  an 
unfailing  spring ;  and  many  will  yet  drink  and  bathe  therein. 
Then  all  things  will  be  rej^eneratcd  and  changed.     Now  we 


RULES    OF    HOLY    LIVING.  321 

are  strangers  and  pilgrims  ;  and  it  is  my  desire,  without  ad- 
hering to  the  things  of  this  world,  but  longing  for  my  native 
abode,  to  consider  and  inquire  how  long  I  must  labor  here,  to 
whom  I  ought  to  show  the  light  I  have  obtained,  when  I 
ought  to  put  it  up,  and  when  disclose  it. 

The  inhabitants  of  this  country  of  Burmah,  being  in  the 
evil  practice  of  forbidden  lust,  erroneous  worship,  and  false 
speech,  deride  the  religion  of  Christ.  However,  that  we  may 
bear  patiently  derision,  and  persecution,  and  death,  for  the 
sake  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  pray  for  us.  I  do  thus  pray. 
For,  elder  brother,  I  have  to  bear  the  threatening  of  my  own 
brother,  and  my  brother-in-law,  who  say,  "  We  will  beat,  and 
bruise,  and  pound  you  ;  we  will  bring  you  into  great  difficulty  ; 
you  associate  with  false  people ;  you  keep  a  false  religion ; 
and  you  speak  false  words."  However,  their  fabe  religion  is 
the  religion  of  death.  The  doctrine  of  the  cross  is  the  religion 
of  life,  of  love,  of  faith.  I  am  a  servant  of  faith.  Formerly 
I  was  a  servant  of  Satan.  Now  I  am  a  servant  of  Christ. 
And  a  good  servant  cannot  but  follow  his  master.  Moreover, 
the  divine  promises  must  be  accomplished. 

In  this  country  of  Burmah  are  many  strayed  sheep. 
Teacher  Yoodthan,  pitying  them,  has  come  to  gather  them 
together,  and  to  feed  them  in  love.  Some  will  not  listen,  but 
run  away.  Some  do  listen,  and  adhere  to  him ;  and  that  our 
numbers  may  increase,  we  meet  together,  and  j)ray  to  the  great 
Proprietor  of  the  sheep. 

Thus  I,  Moung  Shwa-ba,  a  disciple  of  teacher  Yoodthan, 
in  Rangoon,  write  and  send  this  letter  to  the  great  teacher 
Baldwin,  Avho  lives  in  Boston,  America. 

N.  B.  Translated  from  the  Burmese  original,  September 
23,  1823. 

A.  JuDSON,  Jr. 

The  rales  of  living  which  follow  are  copied  from  a 
paper  in  the  handwriting  of  Dr.  Judson.  They  are 
inserted  here  for  the  sake  of  illustratins:  the  earnest- 
ness  with   w^hich    he    strove    after   personal  holiness, 


322  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

whilst  engrossed  with  the  labors  of  his  missionary 
calling.  He  well  knew  that  no  external  services  could 
purify  the  heart ;  that  this  work  could  be  done  in  no 
other  way  than  by  practically  subjecting  the  whole  soul 
to  the  con:imandments  of  Christ. 


Rules  adopted  on  Sunday,  April  4,  1819,  the  era  of  com- 
mencing public  ministrations  among  the  Burmans  ;  revised  and 
re-adopted  on  Saturday,  December  9,  1820,  and  on  Wednes- 
day, April  25,  1821. 

1.  Be  dihgent  in  secret  prayer,  every  morning  and  evening. 

2.  Never  spend  a  moment  in  mere  idleness. 

3.  Restrain  natural  appetites  within  the  bounds  of  temper- 
ance and  purity.     "  Keep  thyself  pure." 

4.  Suppress  every  emotion  of  anger  and  ill  will. 

5.  Undertake  nothing  from  motives  of  ambition,  or  love  of 
fame. 

6.  Never  do  that  which,  at  the  moment,  appears  to  be  dis- 
pleasing to  God. 

7.  Seek  opportunities  of  making  some  sacrifice  for  the  good 
of  others,  especially  of  believers,  provided  the  sacrifice  is  not 
inconsistent  with  some  duty. 

8.  Endeavor  to  rejoice  in  every  loss  and  suffering  incurred 
for  Christ's  sake  and  the  gospel's,  remembering  that  though, 
like  death,  they  are  not  to  be  wilfully  incurred,  yet,  like  death, 
they  are  great  gain. 

Re-adopted  the  above  rules,  particularly  the  Afk,  on  Sun- 
day,  August  31,  1823. 

Re-adopted  the  above  rules,  particularly  the  1st,  on  Sunday, 
October  29,  1826,  and  adopted  the  following  minor  rules:  — 

1.  Rise  with  the  sun. 

2.  Read  a  certain  portion  of  Burman  every  day,  Sundays 
excepted. 

3.  Have  the  Scriptures  and  some  devotional  book  in  con- 
stant reading. 


REVIEW    OF    HIS    VISIT    TO    AVA.  323 

4.  Read  no  book  in  English  that  has  not  a  devotional  ten- 
dency. 

0.  Suppress  every  unclean  thought  and  look. 

Revised  and  re-adopted  all  the  above  rules,  particularly  the 
second  of  the  first  class,  on  Sunday,  March  11,  1827. 

God  grant  me  grace  to  keep  the  above  rules,  and  ever 
live  to  his  glory,  for  Jesus  Christ's  sake. 

A.  JUDSON. 

To  Rev.  Dr.  Baldwin. 

Rangoox,  February  11,  1823. 

Rev.  and  dear  Sir:  My  last  to  you  was  written  just 
before  we  left  Rangoon  for  Ava.  While  at  Ava,  yours  of 
March  last  came  to  hand,  and  afforded  me  much  consolation 
and  encouragement.  Since  my  return,  I  have  received  yours 
of  July,  the  latest  that  has  reached  me  from  America.  The 
magazines  also  have  all  been  duly  received.  Many  thanks 
for  all  your  kindnesses,  and  thanks  to  God,  who  has  excited 
so  much  interest  for  the  Burman  mission  in  the  hearts  of  his 
dear  children  in  far  distant  lands. 

You  will  learn  from  my  journal,  forwarded  herewith  to  the 
Corresponding  Secretary,  the  particulars  of  our  visit  to  Ava. 
Suffice  it  here  to  say  that  the  Lord  has  been  gracious  to  us 
beyond  our  expectation.  My  reception,  as  a  minister  of  reli- 
gion, has  been  very  different  from  what  it  was  before.  A 
liberal  and  candid  spirit  seems  to  prevail  among  all  the  mem- 
bers of  the  royal  family,  and  among  many  of  the  leading  mem- 
bers of  government.  It  is  distinctly  understood  by  the  king, 
and  by  all  who  have  any  knowledge  of  me  at  all,  that  I  am 
a  thah-thah-nah-pyoo-tsayah,  that  is,  a  religion-propagating 
teacher ;  and  yet  I  have  been  smiled  on,  and  listened  to,  and, 
by  the  order  of  the  king  himself,  have  received  from  the  chief 
public  minister  of  state  the  grant  of  a  small  piece  of  ground, 
for  the  express  purpose  of  building  a  kyoung,  (a  house  appro- 
priated to  sacred  characters.)  It  is  my  intention,  therefore, 
to  return  thither  as  soon  as  Mrs.  Judson  arrives,  who,  I  hear, 
has  gone  on  to  America.     And  in  the  mean  time,  I  shall 


324  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

occupy  myself  in  finisliing  the  translation  of  the  New  Testa- 
ment—  a  work  which  I  left  unfinished  with  great  reluctance, 
and  which  I  rejoice  to  have  leisure  to  reassume. 

During  my  absence,  one  of  the  best  of  our  church  members, 
the  sister  of  Mah  Men-la,  was  called  from  this  world,  to  join, 
I  trust,  the  church  triumphant.  She  died  in  peace  and  joy, 
professing  her  belief  in  Jesus  Christ,  and  saying  that  she 
should  soon  be  with  him  in  heaven. 

During  the  whole  of  my  residence  at  Ava,  I  was  severely 
afflicted,  at  intervals,  with  the  fever  and  ague.  I  did  hope 
that  a  change  of  climate  would  effect  my  cure ;  but  the  dis- 
order has  followed  me  to  Rangoon,  and  I  am  subject  to  it 
every  other  day.  Brother  Price  was  apprehensive  that  it  would 
terminate  fatally,  having  resisted  every  medical  application, 
and  become  so  deeply  rooted ;  and  he  would  have  accompa- 
nied me  hither,  had  I  not  dissuaded  him.  My  only  hope  now 
is,  that  it  will  exhaust  itself  before  my  constitution  is  exhaust- 
ed ;  but  the  Lord's  will  be  done.  I  could  wish  to  live  to  fin- 
ish the  New  Testament,  and  I  should  also  be  happy  to  see  a 
little  church  raised  up  in  Ava,  as  there  has  been  in  Rangoon. 
But  the  ways  of  God  are  not  as  the  ways  of  man.  He  does 
all  things  well.  Glory  be  to  his  holy  name  forevermore. 
Yours,  very  respectfully, 

A.  JuDsoN,  Jr. 

At  the  commencement  of  Brown  University,  1823, 
the  corporation  of  that  institution  conferred  on  Mr. 
Judson  the  honorary  degree  of  Doctor  in  Divinity. 
Several  years  elapsed  before  he  became  acquainted 
with  the  fact.  In  May,  1828,  he  addressed  the  follow- 
ing letter  to  the  editor  of  the  Magazine  :  — 

Dear  Sir  :  I  beg  to  be  allowed  the  privilege  of  requesting 
my  correspondents  and  friends,  through  the  medium  of  your 
magazine,  no  longer  to  apply  to  my  name  the  title  which 
was  conferred  on  me  in  the  year  1823  by  the  corporation  of 


TRANSLATION    OF    NEW    TESTAMENT    COMPLETED.       325 

Brown  University,  and  which,  with  all  deference  and  respect 
for  that  honorable  bodj,  I  hereby  resign. 

Nearly  three  years  elapsed  before  I  was  informqd  of  the  honor 
done  me,  and  two  years  more  have  been  suffered  to  pass,  partly 
from  the  groundless  idea  that  it  was  too  late  to  decline  the 
honor,  and  partly  through  fear  of  doing  what  might  seem  to 
reflect  on  those  who  have  taken  a  different  course,  or  be  liable 
to  the  charge  of  affected  singularity,  or  superstitious  precise- 
ness.  But  I  am  now  convinced  that  the  commands  of  Christ 
and  the  general  spirit  of  the  gospel  are  paramount  to  all  pru- 
dential considerations,  and  I  only  regret  that  I  have  so  long 
delayed  to  make  this  communication.  Yours,  &c., 

A.  JUDSON. 

This  letter  was,  I  believe,  published  at  the  time.  Mr. 
Judson's  wishes,  however,  in  this  respect,  were  un- 
heeded, and  it  has  been  his  fate,  against  his  will,  to  be 
known  as  Dr.  instead  of  Mr.  Judson. 

Extract  of  a  Letter  to  Rev.  D.  Sharp,  dated  Rangooii,  August  5,  1823. 
It  is  with  real  satisfaction  that  I  am  able  to  inform  you  of 
the  completion  of  the  New  Testament  in  Burman,  about  six 
weeks  ago ;  since  which  I  have  added,  by  way  of  introduction, 
an  epitome  of  the  Old  Testament,  in  twelve  sections,  consisting 
of  a  summary  of  Scripture  history  from  the  creation  to  the 
coming  of  Christ,  and  an  abstract  of  the  most  important  proph- 
ecies of  the  Messiah  and  his  kingdom,  from  the  Psalms,  Isaiah, 
and  other  prophets.  I  trust  this  work  will  be  found  as  valuable 
as  any  part  of  the  preceding  ;  for  though  not,  strictly  si)eaking, 
the  word  of  God,  it  is  compiled  almost  entirely  in  the  words  of 
Scripture,  is  received  by  the  converts  with  great  eagerness,  and 
found  to  be  peculiarly  interesting  and  instructive,  and  forms, 
moreover,  a  sort  of  text  book,  from  which  I  am  able  to  com- 
municate much  information  on  the  history,  types,  and  prophe- 
cies of  the  Old  Testament  in  a  systematic  manner. 
VOL.    1.  2^ 


Vv(4    .   -M^^ 


CHAPTER     X . 

HOPEFUL  PROSPFvCTS  OF  THE  MISSION  —PASSAGE  UP  THE 
IRRAWADL  — WAR  BETWEEN  THE  ENGLISH  AND  BURMESE.— 
IMPRISONMENT  OF  DR.  JUDSON  AT  AVA  AND  OUNG-PEN-LA. 
—  HIS  RELEASE.  — PERSONAL  REMINISCENCES. 

1824  —  1826. 

At  the  close  of  the  last  chapter,  the  prospects  of 
the  mission  seemed  eminently  favorable.  Mrs.  Jud- 
son  was  daily  expected  from  America,  in  invigorated 
health,  accompanied  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Wade,  two  of 
the  most  devoted  and  successfal  laborers  that  have 
ever  entered  the  missionary  field.  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Hough  had  returned  from  Calcutta,  and  again  united 
with  their  brethren  at  Rangoon.  Dr.  Judson  had 
completed  the  translation  of  the  New  Testament  into 
the  Burmese  language.  A  church  of  eighteen  mem- 
.bers  had  been  gathered  from  the  heathen,  all  of  whom 
gave  credible  evidence  of  personal  piety.  Some  of 
them  had  indicated  both  a  desire  and  an  aptitude  for 
the  ministry  of  the  gospel ;  and  every  one  of  them, 
each  in  his  appropriate  sphere,  was  endeavoring  to 
make  known  to  others  that  religion  of  which  he  him- 
*self  had  felt  the  transforming  effects.  Christianity 
had  thus  not  only  been  planted  in  Rangoon,  but  it 
had  taken  root,  and  was  beginning  to  change  the  8ur-» 
rounding  community  into  its  own  likeness.  Yet  all 
this  had  taken  place  without  awakening,  in  any 
alarming  degree,  the  spirit  of  persecution. 

The  prospect  of  success  even  in  Ava  was  encour- 
aging. A  physician  known  to  be  associated  with  the 
teacher  of  the  new  religion  had  been  ordered  4hither, 
and  had  been   well  received   at  court.     Dr.   Judson, 

326 


HOPEFUL    JeKOSPECTS    OF    THE    MISSION.  327 

who  accompanied  him,  had  resided  there  for  several 
months,  and  been  universally  known  as  a  "  religion- 
propagating  teacher."  His  character  in  this  respect 
caused  him  no  molestation.  On  the  contrary,  he  was 
listened  to  with  respectful  attention  by  many  persons 
holding  high  official  rank,  and  some  of  them  were 
inquiring  about  this  new  religion  with  more  than 
common  interest.  When  he  proposed  to  leave  Ava, 
the  emperor  himself  condescended  to  express  regret, 
and  invited  him  to  return  at  the  earliest  opportunity, 
accompanied  by  Mrs.  Judson,  and  make  Ava  his  per- 
manent residence. 

These  indications  of  Providence  seemed  all  to  point 
directly  to  the  establishment  of  a  missionary  station 
at  Ava.  The  church  at  Rangoon  would  be  sufficiently 
provided  for  by  the  presence  and  labors  of  Messrs. 
Wade  and  Hough  and  their  wives.  It  had  here 
within  itself  all  the  elements  of  increase.  At  Ava, 
the  gospel  had  been  heard  respectfully  by  the  most 
intelligent  of  its  citizens.  It  seemed  that  a  church 
might  be  planted  there  with  less  danger  of  persecution 
than  even  at  Rangoon,  while,  if  this  could  be  done, 
the  principle  of  religious  toleration,  from  the  example 
of  the  capital,  would  be  established  for  the  whole 
empire.  The  movement  was  perfectly  in  harmony 
with  all  Dr.  Judson's  rules  of  missionary  action. 
Like  the  apostle  Paul,  his  eye  was  ever  fixed  on  "  the 
regions  beyond."  He  desired  to  go  where  Christ  had 
not  been  named.  When  a  church  had  been  planted 
in  Rangoon,  he  felt  impelled  to  proceed  with  the  mes- 
sage of  salvation  to  Ava.  Had  he  succeeded  in  es- 
tablishing a  church  there,  1  doubt  not  that  he  would 
have  moved  still  onward,  to  plant  another  church  in 
some  region  yet  more  inaccessible.     Such  were  the 


328  MEMOIR    OF    DK.    JUDSON. 

views  of  missionary  enterprise  which  he  ever  incul- 
cated upon  his  younger  brethren,  and  which  he  ever 
exemplified  in  his  own  conduct. 

Deeply  impressed  with  these  convictions,  Dr.  Jud- 
son  had  hastened  with  all  speed  to  Rangoon  to  meet 
Mrs.  Judson,  who  was  daily  expected  there.  When 
she  arrived,  the  preparations  for  the  passage  up  the 
river  had  been  almost  completed  ;  and  in  a  few  days, 
they  left  Rangoon  for  Ava,  little  "  knowing  the  things 
that  should  befall  them  there."  There  seemed  in  the 
whole  horizon  but  one  cloud,  and  that  was  no  bigger 
than  a  man's  hand.  It  by  no  means  betokened  an 
alarming  tempest.  There  was,  it  is  true,  some  reason 
to  fear  that  a  collision  might  ensue  between  the  em- 
pire of  Burmah  and  Great  Britain.  But  the  policy 
of  Great  Britain  was  known  to  be  eminently  pacific. 
They  could  not  engage  in  war  without  enlarging  their 
territory,  and  this  result  was  not  looked  upon  with 
favor  by  the  government  at  home.  A  protracted  war 
could  not  be  anticipated ;  and,  it  being  now  well 
understood  at  Ava  that  the  missionaries  were  not 
Englishmen,  but  Americans,  it  seemed  highly  prob- 
able that  they  would  pass  through  the  crisis,  if  it 
should  arrive,  without  molestation. 

Very  soon,  however,  the  indications  became  less 
encouraging.  Before  reaching  Ava,  they  met  Ban- 
doola,  the  Burman  general,  on  the  river,  hastening 
with  a  fleet  of  war  boats  and  a  large  army,  to  invade 
the  British  province  of  Chittagong,  where,  it  was 
alleged,  Burman  refugees  were  protected  by  British 
power.  When  they  arrived  at  the  capital,  they  were 
less  favorably  received  than  they  had  expected,  and 
soon  found  themselves  to  be  objects  of  suspicion. 
Suspicion,  rendered   sensitive    by  fear,  soon    ripened 


THE    MIXISTERINP,    ANGEL.  329 

into  hatred.  All  foreigners  were  at  once  arrested 
and  thrown  into  prison.  Imprisonment,  among  a  semi- 
barbarous  people,  is  something  very  different  from 
confinement.  It  is  confinement  imbittered  by  every 
device  of  malicious  and  brutal  cruelty.  All  this  was 
endured  for  twenty-one  months  by  a  student  of 
retired  habits,  unaccustomed  to  physical  hardship, 
whose  constitution  had  been  already  enfeebled  by 
a  protracted  attack  of  the  fever  of  the  country.  It 
seems  almost  miraculous  that  he  did  not  sink  under 
these  intense  and  protracted  sufferings. 

And  he  would  have  sunk  under  them,  had  it  not 
been  that  "an  angel  ministered  unto  him."  Then 
were  revealed  those  elements  of  character  which  des- 
ignated Mrs.  Judson  as  one  of  the  most  remarkable 
women  of  her  age.  She  was  the  only  European 
female  in  Ava,  and  the  only  foreigner  who  was  not 
consigned  to  prison.  Her  whole  time,  with  the  excep- 
tion of  twenty  days  when  she  was  confined  by  the 
birth  of  her  child,  was  devoted  to  the  alleviation  of 
the  sorrows  of  her  husband  and  his  fellow-prisoners. 
Perfectly  familiar  with  the  Burman  language,  of  a 
presence  which  commanded  respect  even  from  savage 
barbarians,  and  encircled  her  with  a  moral  atmosphere 
in  which  she  walked  unharmed  in  the  midst  of  a  hos- 
tile city  with  no  earthly  protector,  she  was  universally 
spoken  of  as  the  guardian  angel  of  that  band  of  suf- 
ferers. Sometimes  she  appealed  to  the  officers  of 
government,  but  more  frequently  to  their  wives,  and 
pleaded  for  compassion  with  an  eloquence  which  even 
they  could  not  resist.  Fertile  in  resources,  and  wholly 
regardless  of  her  own  privations  or  exposure,  she  was 
incessantly  occupied  in  alleviating  the  pain,  or  minis- 
tering to  the  wants,  of  those  who  had  no  other  friend. 
28* 


330  MEMOIR    OF    DK.    JUDSON. 

Rarely  does  it  happen  that  the  moral  extremes  of 
which  our  nature  is  susceptible  are  brought  into  so 
striking  contrast  as  in  the  present  instance.  On  the 
one  hand  might  here  have  been  seen  the  most  de- 
graded of  mankind  inflicting  in  sport  the  most  horrid 
cruelties,  month  after  month,  upon  their  fellow-men, 
some  of  whom  had  sacrificed  every  earthly  comfort 
for  the  good  of  their  tormentors  ;  and  on  the  other 
hand  there  was  seen,  in  the  midst  of  this  horde  of 
ruffians,  a  lady,  whose  intelligence  and  refinement  had 
quite  lately  won  the  admiration  of  the  highest  circles 
of  the  British  metropolis,  soothing  the  sorrows  of  the 
captive,  ministering  to  the  wants  of  the  sick,  pro- 
viding and  preparing  food  for  the  starving,  consoling 
the  dying  with  words  of  heavenly  peace ;  heedless 
of  meridian  suns  and  midnight  dews,  though  sur- 
rounded by  infection,  devoting  herself  vj'ith  prodigal 
disinterestedness  to  the  practice  of  heavenly  charity, 
and  sustaining  the  courage  of  men  inured  to  danger 
and  familiar  with  death  by  the  example  of  her  own 
dauntless  resolution. 

The  knowledge  of  her  deeds  had  reached  the  Brit- 
ish army  before  the  conclusion  of  hostilities.  The 
men  who  had  earned  their  laurels  in  the  peninsular 
war  were  capable  of  appreciating  such  a  character. 
She  was  received  at  the  camp  of  Yandabo  with  hon- 
ors such  as  would  have  befitted  a  lady  of  the  most 
exalted  rank.  Sir  Archibald  Campbell,  the  command- 
er-in-chief, treated  her  with  parental  kindness  ;  and 
every  thing  that  the  army  could  command  was  made 
to  minister  to  her  comfort.  Nor  were  the  attentions 
of  brave  men  ever  more  worthily  bestowed  ;  for  even 
that  army  of  war-worn  veterans  could  not  boast  of  a 
more  heroic  spirit  than  that  which  animated  the  slen- 
der and  wasted  form  of  Ann  Hasseltine  Judson. 


PASSAGE    UP    Tin:    IKRAWADI.  o'31 

J  have  inserted,  without  abridgment,  the  letters  of 
Mrs.  Judson,  giving  a  narrative  of  the  voyage  to  Ava, 
and  the  settlement  of  her  husband  and  herself  in  that 
city,  and  also  her  letter  to  her  brother,  detailing  at 
length  the  events  of  their  captivity  during  the  war. 
To  these  I  am  able  to  add  many  interesting  particu- 
lars derived  from  conversations  of  Br.  Judson  himself 
with  Mrs.  Emily  C.  Judson.  I  need  not  apologize  for 
the  length  of  these  documents  ;  for  I  do  not  remember 
i\uy  thing  in  the  history  of  modern  missions  more 
deeply   aflecting. 

Ava,  February  10,  1824. 

My  dear  Parents  and  Sisters  :  After  two  years  and 
a  half  wandering,  you  will  be  pleased  to  hear  that  I  have  at 
last  arrived  at  home,  so  far  as  this  life  is  concerned,  and  am 
once  more  quietly  and  happily  settled  with  Mr.  Judson. 
When  I  retrace  the  scenes  through  which  I  have  passed,  the 
immense  space  I  have  traversed,  and  the  various  dangers,  seen 
and  unseen,  from  which  I  have  been  preserved,  my  heart  is 
filled  with  gratitude  and  praise  to  that  Being  who  has  at  all 
times  been  my  Protector,  and  marked  out  all  the  way  before 
me.  Surely  no  one  was  ever  more  highly  favored,  no  being 
was  ever  under  greater  obligations  to  make  sacrifices  for  the 
promotion  of  God's  glory,  than  I  am  at  this  moment.  And  I 
tliink  I  feel  more  than  ever  the  importance  of  being  spiritual 
and  humble,  and  so  to  cherish  the  influences  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  that  in  the  communication  of  divine  truth,  powerful 
impressions  may  be  made,  and  that  I  may  no  more  wan- 
der from  Him  who  is  deserving  of  all  my  services  and 
affections. 

I  wrote  from  Rangoon ;  but  for  fear  my  letters  should  not 
have  arrived,  I  will  mention  a  few  things  therein  contained. 
We  had  a  quick  and  pleasant  passage  from  Calcutta  to  Ran- 
goon. Mr.  Judson's  boat  was  all  in  readiness,  my  baggage 
was  immediately  taken  from  the  ship  to  the  boat,  and  in  seven 


332  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

days  from  my  arrival,  we  were  on  our  way  to  the  capital. 
Our  boat  was  small  and  inconvenient ;  but  the  current  at  this 
season  is  so  very  strong,  and  the  wind  always  against  us,  that 
our  progress  was  slow  indeed.  The  season,  however,  was 
cool  and  delightful ;  we  were  preserved  from  dangers  by  day 
and  robbers  by  night,  and  arrived  in  safety  in  six  weeks.  The 
A-rah-wah-tee  (Iri-awadi)  is  a  noble  river  ;  its  banks  eVery 
where  covered  with  immortal  beings,  destined  to  the  same 
eternity  as  ourselves.  We  often  walked  through  the  villages, 
and  though  we  never  received  the  least  insult,  always  attracted 
universal  attention.  A  foreign  female  was  a  sight  never  be- 
fore beheld,  and  all  were  anxious  that  their  friends  and 
relatives  should  have  a  view.  Crowds  followed  us  through 
the  villages,  and  some,  who  were  less  civilized  than  others, 
would  run  some  way  before  us,  in  order  to  have  a  long  look  as 
we  approached  them.  In  one  instance,  the  boat  being  some 
time  in  doubling  a  point  we  had  walked  over,  we  seated  our- 
selves down,  when  the  villagers,  as  usual,  assembled,  and  Mr. 
Judson  introduced  the  subject  of  religion.  Several  old  men, 
who  were  present,  entered  into  conversation,  while  the  multi- 
tude was  all  attention.  The  apparent  schoolmaster  of  tlie 
village  coming  up,  Mr.  Judson  handed  him  a  tract,  and 
requested  him  to  read.  After  proceeding  some  way,  he  re- 
marked to  the  assembly  that  such  a  writing  was  worthy  of 
being  copied,  and  asked  Mr.  Judson  to  remain  while  he  copied 
it.  Mr.  Judson  informed  him  he  might  keep  the  tract,  on 
condition  he  read  it  to  all  his  neighbors.  We  could  not  but 
hope  the  Spirit  of  God  would  bless  those  few  simple  truths  to 
the  salvation  of  some  of  their  souls. 

Our  boat  was  near  being  upset  in  passing  through  one  of 
the  rapids  with  which  this  river  abounds.  The  rudder  be- 
came entangled  in  the  rocks,  which  brought  the  boat  across 
the  stream,  and  laid  her  on  one  side.  The  steersman,  how- 
ever, had  presence  of  mind  suthcient  to  cut  the  rudder  from 
the  boat,  which  caused  her  to  right,  without  experiencing 
any  other  inconvenience  than  a  thorough  fright,  and  the  loss 
of  our  breakfast,  which  was  precipitated  from  the  fireplace 


AKHIVAL    AT    AVA.  333 

into  tlie  Avater,  together  witli  every  tiling  on  the  outside  of 
the    boat. 

On  our  arrival  at  Ava,  we  had  more  difiiculties  to  encounter, 
and  such  as  we  had  never  before  experienced.  AVe  had  no 
home,  no  house  to  shelter  us  from  the  burning  sun  by  day  and 
the  cold  dews  at  night.  Dr.  Price  had  kindly  met  us  on  the 
Av ay,  and  urged  our  taking  up  our  residence  with  him;  but 
his  house  was  in  such  an  unfinished  state,  and  the  walls  so 
damp,  (of  brick,  and  just  built,)  that  spending  two  or  three 
liours  threw  me  into  a  fever,  and  induced  me  to  feel  that  it 
Avould  be  presumption  to  remain  longer.  AVe  had  but  one 
alternative  —  to  remain  in  the  boat  till  we  could  build  a  small 
house  on  the  spot  of  ground  which  the  king  gave  Mr.  Judson 
last  year.  And  you  will  hardly  believe  it  possible  —  for  I 
almost  doubt  my  senses  —  that,  in  just  a  fortnight  from  our 
arrival,  we  moved  into  a  house  built  in  that  time,  and  which 
is  sufficiently  large  to  make  us  comfortable.  It  is  in  a  most 
delightful  situation,  out  of  the  dust  of  the  town,  and  on  the 
bank  of  the  river.  The  spot  of  ground  given  by  his  majesty 
is  small,  being  only  one  hundred  and  twenty  feet  long,  and 
seventy-five  wide ;  but  it  is  our  own,  and  is  the  most  healthy 
situation  I  have  seen.  Our  house  is  raised  four  feet  from  the 
ground,  and  consists  of  three  small  rooms  and  a  veranda. 

I  hardly  know  how  we  shall  bear  the  hot  season,  which  is 
just  commencing,  as  our  house  is  built  of  boards,  and  before 
night  is  heated  like  an  oven.  Nothing  but  brick  is  a  shelter 
from  the  heat  of  Ava,  where  the  thermometer,  even  in  the 
shade,  frequently  rises  to  a  hundred  and  eight  degrees.  "We 
have  worship  every  evening  in  Burman,  when  a  number  of 
the  natives  assemble  ;  and  every  Sabbath  Mr.  Judson  preaches 
the  other  side  of  the  river,  in  Dr.  Price's  house.  We  feel 
it  an  inestimable  privilege,  that  amid  all  our  discouragements 
we  have  the  language,  and  are  able  constantly  to  communicate 
truths  which  can  save  the  soul. 

My  female  school  has  already  commenced,  with  three  little 
girls,  who  are  learning  to  read,  sew,  &c.  Two  of  them  are 
sisters,  and  we  have  named  them  Mary  and  Ahby  Hasseltine. 


334  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

One  of  them  is  to  be  supported  with  the  money  which  the, 
*'  Judson  Association  of  Bradford  Academy  "  have  engaged  to 
collect.  They  are  fine  children,  and  improve  as  rapidly  as 
any  children  in  the  world.  Their  mother  is  deranged,  and 
their  father  gave  them  to  me  to  educate,  so  that  I  have  been 
at  no  expense  for  them,  excepting  their  food  and  clothes.  I 
have  already  begun  to  make  inquiries  for  children,  and  doubt 
not  we  shall  be  directed  in  regard  to  our  school. 

I  have  not  yet  been  at  the  palace,  the  royal  family  all  being 
absent.  They  returned  to  Amarapoora  a  day  or  two  after  our 
arrival,  where  they  will  remain  till  the  new  palace  in  this  city 
is  finished,  when  they  will  take  possession  in  the  usual  form, 
and  Ava  in  future  will  be  their  residence.  IVIy  old  friend,  the 
lady  of  the  viceroy  of  Rangoon,  who  died  in  my  absence, 
came  to  the  boat  to  see  me  immediately  on  being  informed  of 
my  arrival.  All  her  power  and  distinction  ceased  at  the 
death  of  her  husband,  and  she  is  now  only  a  private  woman. 
She  is,  however,  a  very  sensible  woman,  and  there  is  much 
more  hope  of  her  attending  to  the  subject  of  religion  now 
than  when  in  public  life.  I  intend  to  visit  her  frequently,  and 
make  it  an  object  to  fix  her  attention  to  the  subject.  In  con- 
sequence of  war  with  the  Bengal  government,  foreigners  are 
not  so  much  esteemed  at  court  as  formerly.  I  know  not  what 
effect  this  war  will  have  on  our  mission  ;  but  we  must  leave 
the  event  with  Him  who  has  hitherto  directed  us. 

Rangoon,  May  26,  1826. 

My  beloved  Brother  :  I  commence  this  letter  with  the 
intention  of  giving  you  the  particulars  of  our  captivity  and  suf- 
ferings at  Ava.  How  long  my  patience  will  allow  my  re- 
viewing scenes  of  disgust  and  horror,  the  conclusion  of  this 
letter  will  determine.  I  had  kept  a  journal  of  every  thing  that 
had  transpired  from  our  arrival  at  Ava,  but  destroyed  it  at  the 
commencement  of  our  difficulties. 

The  first  certain  intelligence  we  received  of  the  declaration 
of  war  by  the  Burmese,  was  on  our  arrival  at  Tsen-pyoo- 
kywon,  about  a  hundred  miles  this  side  of  Ava,  where  part  of 


TAKING    POSSESSION    OF    TII1>:    NKW    PALACE.  335 

the  troops  under  the  command  of  the  celebrated  Bandoola  had 
encamjxid.  As  we  proceeded  on  our  journey,  we  met  Bandoola 
himself  with  the  remainder  of  his  troops,  gaylj  equipped,  seated 
on  his  golden  barge,  and  surrounded  by  a  fleet  of  golden  war 
boats,  one  of  which  was  instantly  despatched  from  the  other  side 
of  the  river  to  hail  us,  and  make  all  necessary  incpiiries.  We 
were  allowed  to  proceed  quietly  on,  when  we  had  informed  the 
messenger  that  we  were  Americans,  not  English,  and  were 
going  to  Ava  in  obedience  to  the  command  of  his  majesty. 

On  our  arrival  at  the  capital,  we  found  that  Dr.  Price  was 
out  of  favor  at  court,  and  that  suspicion  rested  on  most  of  the 
foreigners  then  at  Ava.  Your  brother  visited  at  the  palace 
two  or  thre«  times,  but  found  the  king's  manner  towards  him 
very  diiferent  from  what  it  formerly  had  been  ;  and  the  queen, 
who  had  hitherto  expressed  wishes  for  my  speedy  arrival,  now 
made  no  inquiries  after  me,  nor  intimated  a  wish  to  see  me. 
Consequently,  I  made  no  effort  to  visit  at  the  palace,  though 
almost  daily  invited  to  visit  some  of  the  branches  of  the  royal 
family,  who  were  living  in  their  own  houses,  out  of  the  palace 
enclosure.  Under  these  circumstances,  we  thought  our  most 
prudent  course  lay  in  prosecuting  our  original  intention  of 
building  a  house,  and  commencing  missionary  operations  as 
occasions  offered,  thus  endeavoring  to  convince  the  government 
that  we  had  really  nothing  to  do  with  the  present  war. 

In  two  or  three  weeks  after  our  arrival,  the  king,  queen, 
all  the  members  of  the  royal  family,  and  most  of  the  officers  of 
government,  returned  to  Amarapoora,  in  order  to  come  and 
take  possession  of  the  new  palace  in  the  customary  style.  As 
there  has  been  much  mif^understanding  relative  to  Ava  and 
Amarapoora,  both  being  called  the  capital  of  the  Burmese  em- 
pire, I  will  here  remark,  that  the  present  Ava  was  formerly  the 
seat  of  government ;  but  soon  after  the  old  king  had  ascended 
the  throne,  it  was  forsaken,  and  a  new  palace  built  at  Amara- 
poora, about  six  miles  from  Ava,  in  which  he  remained  during 
his  life.  In  the  fourth  year  of  the  reign  of  the  present  king, 
Amarapoora  was  in  its  turn  forsaken,  and  a  new  and  beautiful 
palace  built  at  Ava,  which  was  then  in  ruins,  but  is  now  the 


336  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

ccqntal  of  the  Burmese  empire.  The  king  and  royal  family- 
had  been  living  in  temporary  buildings  at  Ava,  during  the 
completion  of  the  new  palace,  which  gave  occasion  for  their 
returning  to  Amarapoora. 

I  dare  not  attempt  a  description  of  that  splendid  day,  when 
majesty,  with  all  its  attendant  glory,  entered  the  gates  of  the 
golden  city,  and  amid  the  acclamations  of  millions,  I  may  say, 
took  possession  of  the  palace.  The  saupwars  of  the  provinces 
bordering  on  China,  all  the  viceroys  and  high  officers  of  the 
kingdom,  were  assembled  on  the  occasion,  dressed  in  their  robes 
of  state,  and  ornamented  with  the  insignia  of  their  office.  The 
white  elephant,  richly  adorned  with  gold  and  jewels,  was  one 
of  the  most  beautiful  objects  in  the  procession.  The  king  and 
queen  alone  were  unadorned,  dressed  in  the  simple  garb  of  the 
country ;  they,  hand  in  hand,  entered  the  garden  in  which  we 
had  taken  our  seats,  and  where  a  banquet  was  prepared  for 
their  refreshment.  All  the  riches  and  glory  of  the  empire  were 
on  this  day  exhibited  to  view.  The  number  and  immense  size 
of  the  elephants,  the  numerous  horses,  and  great  variety  of 
vehicles  of  all  descriptions,  far  surpassed  any  thing  I  have  ever 
seen  or  imagined.  Soon  after  his  majesty  had  taken  possession 
of  the  new  palace,  an  order  was  issued  that  no  foreigner  should 
be  allowed  to  enter,,  excepting  Lanciego.  We  were  a  little 
alarmed  at  this,  but  concluded  it  was  from  political  motives,  and 
would  not,  perhaps,  essentially  affect  us. 

For  several  weeks  nothing  took  place  to  alarm  us,  and  we  went 
on  with  our  school.  Mr.  Judson  preached  every  Sabbath  ;  ail 
the  materials  for  building  a  brick  house  were  procured,  and  the 
masons  had  made  considerable  progress  in  raising  the  building. 

On  the  23d  of  May,  1824,  just  as  we  had  concluded  worship 
at  the  doctor's  house,  the  other  side  of  the  river,  a  messenger 
came  to  inform  us  that  Rangoon  was  taken  by  the  English. 
The  intelligence  produced  a  shock,  in  which  was  a  mixture  of 
fear  and  joy.  Mr.  Gouger,  a  young  merchant  residing  at  Ava, 
was  then  with  us,  and  had  much  more  reason  to  fear  than  the 
rest  of  us.  We  all,  however,  immediately  returned  to  our 
house,  and  began  to  consider  what  was  to  be  done.     Mr.  G. 


SUSPICION    OF    FORKIGNERS.  337 

went  to  Prince  Thar-yar-wu-dee,  the  king's  most  influential 
brother,  who  iufornied  him  he  need  not  give  himself  any  uneasi- 
ness, as  he  had  mentioned  the  subject  to  his  majesty,  who  had 
replied,  that  "  the  few  foreigners  residing  at  Ava  had  nothing 
to  do  with  the  war,  and  should  not  be  molested." 

The  government  were  now  all  in  motion.  An  army  of  ten 
or  twelve  thousand  men,  under  the  command  of  the  kyee- 
woon-gyee,  were  sent  off  in  three  or  four  days,  and  were  to  be 
joined  by  the  sakyah-woon-gyee,  who  had  previously  been  ap- 
])ointed  viceroy  of  Rangoon,  and  tvho  was  on  his  way  thither 
when  the  news  of  its  attack  reached  him.  No  doubt  was 
entertained  of  the  defeat  of  the  English  ;  the  only  .-/ear  of  the 
king  was,  that  the  foreigners,  hearing  of  the  advance  of  the 
Burmese  troops,  would  be  so  alarmed  as  to  flee  on  board  their 
ships  and  depart,  before  there  would  be  time  to  secure  them  as 
slaves.  "  Bring  for  me,"  said  a  wild  young  buck  of  the  palace, 
"  six  kala  pyoo,  [white  strangers,]  to  row  my  boat."  "  And  to 
me,"  said  the  lady  of  a  woon-gyee,  "  send  four  white  strangers 
to  manage  the  affairs  of  my  house,  as  I  understand  they  are 
trusty  servants."  The  war  boats,  in  high  glee,  passed  our 
house,  the  soldiers  singing  and  dancing,  and  exhibiting  gestures 
of  the  most  joyous  kind.  "  Poor  fellows  ! "  said  we,  "  you  will 
probably  never  dance  again."  And  it  so  proved,  for  few,  if 
any,  ever  again  saw  their  native  home. 

As  soon  as  the  army  were  despatched,  the  government  began 
to  inquire  the  cause  of  the  arrival  of  the  strangers  at  Rangoon. 
There  must  be  spies  in  the  country,  suggested  some,  who  have 
invited  them  over.  And  who  so  likely  to  be  spies  as  the  Eng- 
lishmen residing  at  Ava  ?  A  report  was  in  circulation  that 
Captain  Laird,  lately  arrived,  had  brought  Bengal  papers 
which  contained  the  intention  of  the  English  to  take  Rangoon, 
and  it  was  kept  a  secret  from  his  majesty.  An  inquiry  was 
instituted.  The  three  Englishmen,  Gouger,  Laird,  and  Rogers, 
were  called  and  examined.  It  was  found  they  had  seen  the 
papers,  and  were  put  in  confinement,  though  not  in  prison. 
We  now  began  to  tremble  for  ourselves,  and  were  in  daily 
expectation  of  some  dreadful  event. 
VOL.  I.  29 


338  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

At  length  Mr.  Juclson  and  Dr.  Price  were  summoned  to  a 
court  of  examination,  where  strict  inquiry  was  made  relative  to 
all  they  knew.  The  great  point  seemed  to  be  whether  they 
had  been  in  the  habit  of  making  communications  to  foreigners 
of  the  state  of  the  country,  &c.  They  answered,  they  had 
always  written  to  their  friends  in  America,  but  had  no  corre- 
spondence with  English  officers,  or  the  Bengal  government. 
After  their  examination  they  were  not  put  in  confinement,  as 
the  Englishmen  had  been,  but  were  allowed  to  return  to  their 
houses.  In  examining  the  accounts  of  Mr.  Gouger,it  was  found 
that  Mr.  Judson  and  Dr.  Price  had  taken  money  of  him  to  a  con- 
siderable atnount.  Ignorant  as  were  the  Burmese  of  our  mode 
of  receiving  money  by  orders  on  Bengal,  this  circumstance,  to 
their  suspicious  minds,  was  a  sufficient  evidence  that  the  mis- 
sionaries were  in  the  pay  of  the  English,  and  very  probably 
spies.  It  was  thus  represented  to  the  king,  who,  in  an  angry 
tone,  ordered  the  immediate  arrest  of  the  "two  teachers." 

On  the  8th  of  June,  just  as  we  were  preparing  for  dinner, 
in  rushed  an  officer,  holding  a  black  book,  with  a  dozen  Bur- 
mans,  accompanied  by  one,  whom,  from  his  spotted  face,  we 
knew  to  be  an  executioner,  and  a  "  son  of  the  prison." 
"  Where  is  the  teacher  ?  "  was  the  first,  inquiry.  Mr.  Judson 
presented  himself.  "  You  are  called  by  the  king,"  said  the 
officer  —  a  form  of  speech  always  used  wdicn  about  to  arrest  a 
criminal.  The  spotted  man  instantly  seized  Mr.  Judson, 
threw  him  on  the  floor,  and  produced  the  small  cord,  the  in- 
strument of  torture.  I  caught  hold  of  his  arm.  "•'  Stay,"  said 
I ;  "  I  will  give  you  money."  "  Take  her  too,"  said  the  officer ; 
"  she  also  is  a  foreigner."  Mr.  Judson,  with  an  imploring 
look,  begged  they  would  let  me  remain  till  further  orders. 
The  scene  was  now  shocking  beyond  description.  The  whole 
neighborhood  had  collected ;  the  masons  at  work  on  the  brick 
house  threw  down  their  tools,  and  ran  ;  the  little  Burman 
children  were  screaming  and  crying  ;  the  Bengalee  servants 
stood  in  amazement  at  the  indignities  offiired  their  master ; 
and  the  hardened  executioner,  w^ith  a  kind  of  hellish  joy,  drew 
tight  the  cords,  bound   Mr.  Judson  fast,  and  dragged  him  off 


l\IISbIOx\AiiIi:S    IN    Tin:    DHATII    I'llISUN.  339 

I  knew  not  whither.  In  vain  I  begged  and  entreated  the 
spotted  face  to  take  the  silver,  and  loosen  the  ropes  ;  but  he 
spurned  my  oft'ers,  and  immediately  departed.  I  gave  the 
money,  however,  to  Moung  Ing  to  follow  after,  to  make  some 
further  attempt  to  mitigate  the  torture  of  Mr.  Judson  ;  but 
instead  of  succeeding,  when  a  few  rods  from  the  house,  the  un- 
feeling wretches  again  threw  their  prisoner  on  the  ground,  and 
drew  the  cords  still  tighter,  so  as  almost  to  prevent  respiration. 

The  officer  and  his  gang  proceeded  on  to  the  court  house, 
where  the  governor  of  the  city  and  officers  were  collected, 
one  of  whom  read  the  order  of  the  king  to  commit  Mr.  Jud- 
son to  the  death  prison,  into  which  he  was  soon  hurled,  the 
door  closed,  and  Moung  lug  saw  no  more.  What  a  night  was 
now  before  me !  I  retired  into  my  room,  and  endeavored  to 
obtain  consolation  from  committing  my  case  to  God,  and  im- 
ploring fortitude  and  strength  to  suffer  whatever  awaited  me. 
But  the  consolation  of  retirement  was  not  long  allowed  me, 
for  the  magistrate  of  the  place  had  come  into  the  veranda, 
and  continually  called  me  to  come  out,  and  submit  to  his  exam- 
ination. But  previously  to  going  out,  I  destroyed  all  my  let- 
ters, journals,  and  writings  of  every  kind,  lest  they  should  dis- 
close the  fact  that  we  had  correspondents  in  England,  and  had 
minuted  down  every  occurrence  since  our  arrival  in  the  coun- 
try. When  this  work  of  destruction  was  finished,  I  went  out, 
and  submitted  to  the  examination  of  the  magistrate,  who  in- 
quired very  minutely  of  every  thing  I  knew  ;  then  ordered  the 
gates  of  the  compound  to  be  shut,  no  person  to  be  allowed  to 
go  in  or  out,  placed  a  guard  of  ten  ruffians,  to  whom  he  gave 
a  strict  charge  to  keep  me  safe,  and  departed. 

It  was  now  dark.  I  retired  to  an  inner  room  with  my  four 
little  Burman  girls,  and  barred  the  doors.  The  guard  instantly 
ordered  me  to  unbar  the  doors  and  come  out,  or  they  would 
break  the  house  down.  I  obstinately  refused  to  obey,  and 
endeavored  to  intimidate  them  by  threatening  to  complain  of 
their  conduct  to  higher  authorities  on  the  morrow.  Finding 
me  resolved  in  disregarding  their  orders,  they  took  the  two 
Bengalee  servants,  and  confined  them  in  the  stocks  in  a  very 


340  MEMOIR    OF    DK.    JUDSON, 

painful  position.  I  could  not  endure  this,  but  called  the  head 
man  to  the  window,  and  promised  to  make  them  all  a  present 
in  the  morning,  if  they  would  release  the  servants.  After 
much  debate,  and  many  severe  threatenings,  they  consented, 
but  seemed  resolved  to  annoy  me  as  much  as  possible.  My 
unprotected,  desolate  state,  my  entire  uncertainty  of  the  fate 
of  iNIr.  Judson,  and  the  dreadful  carousings  and  almost  diabol- 
ical language  of  the  guard,  all  conspired  to  make  it  by  far  the 
most  distressing  night  I  had  ever  passed.  You  may  well  im- 
agine, my  dear  brother,  that  sleep  was  a  stranger  to  my  eyes, 
and  peace  and  composure  to  my  mind. 

The  next  morning,  I  sent  Moung  Ing  to  ascertain  the  situa- 
tion of  your  brother,  and  give  him  food,  if  still  living.  He 
soon  returned,  with  the  intelligence  that  Mr.  Judson  and  all 
the  white  foreigners  were  confined  in  the  death  prison,  with 
three  pairs  of  iron  fetters  each,  and  fastened  to  a  long  pole,  to 
prevent  their  moving  !  The  point  of  my  anguish  now  was, 
that  I  was  a  prisoner  myself,  and  could  make  no  eiforts  for 
the  release  of  the  missionaries.  I  begged  and  entreated  the 
magistrate  to  allow  me  to  go  to  some  member  of  government 
to  state  my  case  ;  but  he  said  he  did  not  dare  to  consent,  for 
fear  I  should  make  my  escape.  I  next  wrote  a  note  to  one 
of  the  king's  sisters,  with  whom  I  had  been  intimate,  request- 
ing her  to  use  her  influence  for  the  release  of  the  teachers. 
The  note  was  returned  with  this  message  ;  she  "  did  not  under- 
stand it ;  "  which  was  a  polite  refusal  to  interfere  ;  though  I 
afterwards  ascertained  that  she  had  an  anxious  desire  to  assist 
us,  but  dared  not,  on  account  of  the  queen.  The  day  dragged 
heavily  away,  and  another  dreadful  night  was  before  me.  I 
endeavored  to  soften  the  feelings  of  the  guard,  by  giving  them 
tea  and  cigars  for  the  night ;  so  that  they  allowed  me  to  re- 
main inside  of  my  room  without  threatening,  as  they  did  the 
niglit  before.  But  tlie  idea  of  your  brother  being  stretched 
on  the  bare  floor,  in  irons  and  confinement,  haunted  my  mind 
like  a  spectre,  and  prevented  ray  obtaining  any  quiet  sleep, 
though  nature  was  almost  exhausted. 

On  the  third  day,  I  sent  a  message  to  the  governor  of  the 


SUFFKKIN(;     OK     III  I,    TKISONKKS.  341 

city,  who  has  the  entire  direction  of  prison  affairs,  to  allow  me 
to  visit  him  with  a  present.  This  had  the  desired,  effect,  and 
he  immediately  sent  orders  to  the  guards,  to  permit  my  going 
into  town.  The  governor  received  me  pleasantly,  and  aslved 
me  what  I  wanted.  I  stated  to  him  the  situation  of  the  for- 
eigners, and  particularly  that  of  the  teachers,  who  were  Amer- 
icans, and  had  nothing  to  do  with  the  war.  He  told  me  it  was 
not  in  his  power  to  release  them  from  prison  or  irons,  but  that 
he  could  make  their  situation  more  comfortable  ;  there  was 
his  head  officer,  with  whom  I  must  consult,  relative  to  the 
means.  The  officer,  who  proved  to  be  one  of  the  city  writers, 
and  whose  countenance  at  the  first  glance  presented  the  most 
[)erfect  assemblage  of  all  the  evil  passions  attached  to  human 
nature,  took  me  aside,  and  endeavored  to  convince  me,  that 
myself,  as  well  as  the  prisoners,  was  entirely  at  his  disposal ; 
that  our  future  comfort  must  depend  on  my  liberality  in  re- 
gard to  presents  ;  and  that  these  must  be  made  in  a  private 
way,  and  unknown  to  any  officer  in  tlie  government !  "  What 
must  I  do,"  said  I,  "  to  obtain  a  mitigation  of  the  present  suf- 
ferings of  the  two  teachers  ?"  "Pay  to  me,"  said  he,  "two 
hundred  ticals,  [about  a  hundred  dollars,]  two  pieces  of  fine 
cloth,  and  two  pieces  of  handkerchiefs."  I  had  taken  money 
with  me  in  the  morning;  our  house  being  two  miles  from  the 
prison,  I  could  not  easily  return.  This  I  offered  to  the  writer, 
and  begged  he  would  not  insist  on  the  other  articles,  as  they 
were  not  in  my  possession.  He  hesitated  for  some  time  ;  but 
feaiing  to  lose  the  sight  of  so  much  money,  he  concluded  to 
take  it,  promising  to  relieve  the  teachers  from  their  most  pain- 
iul  situation. 

I  then  procured  an  order  from  the  governor  for  my  admit- 
tance into  prison  ;  but  the  sensations  produced  by  meeting 
your  brother  in  that  wretched,  horrid  situation,  and  the  affect- 
ing scene  which  ensuinl,  I  will  not  attempt  to  describe.  Mr. 
Judson  crawled  to  the  door  of  the  prison,  —  for  I  was  never 
allowed  to  enter,  —  gave  me  some  directions  relative  to  his 
release  ;  but  before  we  could  make  any  arrangement,  I  was 
ordered  to  depart  by  those  iron-liearted  jailers,  who  could  not 


342  ]\IEM01R    OF    l)K.    JUDSON. 

endure  to  see  as  enjoy  the  poor  consolation  of  meeting  in  that 
miserable  place.  In  vain  I  pleaded  the  order  from  the  gov- 
ernor for  my  admittance  ;  they  again  harshly  repeated,  "  De- 
part, or  we  will  pull  you  out."  The  same  evening  the  mis- 
sionaries, together  with  the  other  foreigners,  who  paid  an 
equal  sum,  were  taken  out  of  the  common  prison,  and  con- 
fined in  an  open  shed  in  the  prison  enclosure.  Here  I  was 
allowed  to  send  them  food,  and  mats  to  sleep  on,  but  was  not 
permitted  to  enter  again  for  several  days. 

My  next  object  was  to  get  a  petition  presented  to  the 
queen  ;  but  no  person  being  admitted  into  the  palace  who  was 
in  disgrace  with  his  majesty,  I  sought  to  present  it  through 
the  medium  of  her  brother's  wife.  I  had  visited  her  in  better 
days,  and  received  particular  marks  of  her  favor.  But  now 
times  were  altered  ;  Mr.  Judson  was  in  prison,  and  I  in  dis- 
tress, which  was  a  sufficient  reason  for  giving  me  a  cold  re- 
ception. I  took  a  present  of  considerable  value.  She  was 
lolling  on  her  carpet  as  I  entered,  with  her  attendants  around 
her.  I  w^aited  not  for  the  usual  question  to  a  suppliant, 
"  What  do  you  want  ?  "  but  in  a  bold,  earnest,  yet  respectful 
manner,  stated  our  distresses  and  our  wrongs,  and  begged  her 
assistance.  She  partly  raised  her  head,  oj^ened  the  present  I 
had  brought,  and  coolly  re])lied,  "  Your  case  is  not  singular  ; 
all  the  foreigners  are  treated  alike."  "  But  it  is  singular," 
said  I ;  "  the  teachers  are  Americans ;  they  are  ministers  of 
religion,  have  nothing  to  do  with  war  or  politics,  and  came  to 
Ava  in  obedience  to  the  king's  command.  They  have  never 
done  any  thing  to  deserve  such  treatment,  and  is  it  right  they 
should  be  treated  thus  ? "  "  The  king  does  as  he  pleases," 
said  she  ;  "  I  am  not  the  king ;  what  can  I  do  ?  "  "  You  can 
state  their  case  to  the  queen,  and  obtain  their  release,"  replied 
I.  "  Place  yourself  in  my  situation  ;  were  you  in  America, 
your  husband,  innocent  of  crime,  thrown  into  prison,  in  irons, 
and  you  a  solitary,  unprotected  female,  what  would  you  do  ?  " 
With  a  slight  degree  of  feeling,  she  said,  "  I  will  present  your 
petition  ;  come  again  to-morrow."  I  returned  to  the  house 
with  considerable  hope  that  the  speedy  rcdease  of  the  mission- 


I'KOPKKTV    C'ONKJSCATKD.  343 

aries  was  at  liand.  But  the  next  day,  Mr.  Gouger's  property, 
to  the  amount  of  fifty  thousand  rupees,  was  taken  and  carried 
to  the  pahice.  The  officers,  on  their  return,  politely  informed 
me  they  sliould  visit  our  house  on  the  morrow.  I  felt  obliged 
for  this  information,  and  accordingly  made  preparations  to  re- 
ceive them,  by  secreting  as  many  little  articles  as  possible, 
together  with  considerable  silver,  as  I  knew,  if  the  war  should 
be  protracted,  we  should  be  in  a  state  of  starvation  without  it. 
But  my  mind  was  in  a  dreadful  state  of  agitation,  lest  it  should 
be  discovered,  and  cause  my  being  thrown  into  prison.  And 
had  it  been  possible  to  procure  money  from  any  other  quarter, 
1  should  not  have  ventured  on  such  a  step. 

The  following  morning,  the  royal  treasurer,  the  governor  of 
the  north  gate  of  the  palace,  who  was  in  future  our  steady 
friend,  and  another  nobleman,  attended  by  forty  or  fifty  follow- 
ers, came  to  take  possession  of  all  we  had.  I  treated  them 
civilly,  gave  them  chairs  to  sit  on,  tea  and  sweetmeats  for  their 
refreshment ;  and  justice  obliges  me  to  say  that  they  conduct- 
ed the  business  of  confiscation  with  more  regard  to  my  feelings 
than  I  should  have  thought  it  possible  for  Burmese  officers  to 
exhibit.  The  three  officers,  with  one  of  the  royal  secretaries, 
alone  entered  the  house  ;  their  attendants  w^ere  ordered  to  re- 
main outside.  They  saw  I  was  deeply  affected,  and  apologized 
for  what  they  were  about  to  do  by  saying  that  it  was  painful  for 
them  to  take  possession  of  property  not  their  ow^n,  but  they 
were  compelled  thus  to  do  by  order  of  the  king.  "  Where  are 
your  silver,  gold,  and  jewels  ?  "  said  the  royal  treasurer.  "  I 
have  no  gold  or  jewels  ;  but  here  is  the  key  of  a  trunk  which 
contains  the  silver ;  do  with  it  as  you  please."  The  trunk 
was  produced,  and  the  silver  weighed.  "  This  money,"  said  I, 
"  was  collected  in  America,  by  the  disciples  of  Christ,  and 
sent  here  for  the  purpose  of  building  a  kyoung,  [the  name  of 
a  priest's  dwelling,]  and  for  our  support  while  teaching  the 
religion  of  Ciu-ist.  Is  it  suitable  that  you  should  take  it  ?  " 
The  Burmans  are  averse  to  taking  Avhat  is  offered  in  a  reli- 
gious point  of  view,  which  was  the  cause  of  my  making  the 
inquiry.     "  We  will  state  this  circumstance  to  the  king,"  said 


844  3IKMOI11    <>1     1>R.    JIJDSON. 

one  of  them,  "  and  perhaps  he  will  restore  it.  But  is  this  all 
the  silver  you  have  ?  "  I  could  not  tell  a  falsehood.  "  The 
house  is  in  your  possession,"  I  replied  ;  "  search  for  your- 
selves." "  Have  you  not  deposited  silver  with  some  person  of 
your  acquaintance  ?  "  "  My  acquaintances  are  all  in  prison  ; 
with  whom  should  I  deposit  silver  ?  "  They  next  ordered  my 
trunk  and  drawers  to  be  examined.  The  secretary  only  was 
allowed  to  accompany  me  in  this  search.  Every  thing  nice  or 
curious,  which  met  his  view  was  presented  to  the  officers,  for 
their  decision  whether  it  should  be  taken  or  retained.  I 
begged  they  would  not  take  our  wearing  apparel,  as  it  would 
be  disgraceful  to  take  clothes  partly  worn  into  the  possession 
of  his  majesty,  and  to  us  they  were  of  unspeakable  value. 
They  assented,  and  took  a  list  only,  and  did  the  same  with  the 
books,  medicines,  &c.  My  little  work  table  and  rocking  chair, 
presents  from  my  beloved  brother,  I  rescued  from  their  grasp, 
partly  by  artifice  and  partly  through  their  ignorance.  They 
left,  also,  many  articles  which  were  of  inestimable  value  dur- 
ing our  long  imprisonment. 

As  soon  as  they  had  finished  their  search  and  departed,  I 
hastened  to  the  queen's  brother,  to  hear  what  had  been  the 
fate  of  my  petition,  when,  alas  !  all  my  hopes  were  dashed  by 
his  wife's  coolly  saying,  "  I  stated  your  case  to  the  queen,  but 
her  majesty  replied,  '  The  teachers  will  not  die  ;  let  them  re- 
main as  they  are^  "  My  expectations  had  been  so  much  ex- 
cited, that  this  sentence  was  like  a  thunderclap  to  my  feelings. 
For  the  truth  at  one  glance  assured  me  that  if  the  queen  re- 
fused assistance,  who  would  dare  to  intercede  for  me  ?  With 
a  heavy  heart  I  departed,  and  on  my  way  home  attempted  to 
enter  the  prison  gate,  to  communicate  the  sad  tidings  to  your 
])rother,  but  was  harshly  refused  admittance  ;  and  for  the  ten 
days  following,  notwithstanding  my  daily  efforts,  I  was  not  al- 
lowed to  enter.  We  attempted  to  communicate  by  writing,  and 
after  being  successful  for  a  few  days,  it  was  discovered ;  the 
poor  fellow  who  carried  the  communications  was  beaten  and 
put  in  the  stocks,  and  the  circumstance  cost  me  about  ten 
dollars,  besides  two  or  three  days  of  agony  for  fear  of  the 
consequences. 


INTEliCKSSION    WITH    THE    GOVERNOR.  345 

Tlie  olFicers  who  bid  taken  possession  of  our  property  pre- 
sented it  to. his  majesty,  saying,  "  Judson  is  a  true  teacher  ; 
we  found  nothing  in  iiis  house  but  what  belongs  to  priests. 
In  addition  to  this  money,  there  are  an  immense  number  of 
books,  medicines,  trunks  of  wearing  apparel,  &c.,  of  which 
we  have  only  taken  a  list.  Shall  we  take  them,  or  let  them 
remain  ?  "  "  Let  them  remain,"  said  the  king,  "  and  put  this 
property  by  itself,  for  it  shall  be  restored  to  him  again  if  he  is 
found  innocent."  This  was  an  allusion  to  the  idea  of  his  be- 
ing a  spy. 

For  two  or  three  months  following,  I  was  subject  to  contin- 
ual harassmcnts,  partly  through  my  ignorance  of  police  man- 
agement, and  partly  through  the  insatiable  desire  of  every 
l)etty  olHcer  to  enrich  himself  through  our  misfortunes.  When 
tlie  officers  came  to  our  house,  to  confiscate  our  property,  they 
insisted  on  knowing  how  much  I  had  given  the  governor  and 
prison  officers  to  release  the  teachers  from  the  inner  prison. 
I  honestly  told  them,  and  they  demanded  the  sum  from  the 
governor,  which  threw  him  into  a  dreadful  rage,  and  he  threat- 
ened to  put  all  the  prisoners  back  into  their  original  place.  I 
went  to  him  the  next  morning,  and  the  first  words  with  which 
he  accosted  me  were,  "  You  are  very  bad ;  why  did  you  tell 
tlie  royal  treasurer  that  you  had  given  me  so  much  money  ?  " 
"  The  treasurer  inquired ;  what  could  I  say  ? "  I  replied. 
"  Say  that  you  had  given  nothing,"  said  he,  "  and  I  would 
have  made  the  teachers  comfortable  in  prison ;  but  now  I 
know  not  what  will  be  their  flite."  "  But  I  cannot  tell  a  false- 
hood," I  replied ;  "  my  religion  differs  from  yours  ;  it  forbids 
prevarication ;  and  had  you  stood  by  me  with  your  knife 
raised,  I  could  not  have  said  what  you  suggest."  His  wife, 
who  sat  by  his  side,  and  who  always,  from  this  time,  contin- 
ued my  firm  friend,  instantly  said,  "  Very  true ;  what  else 
could  she  have  done  ?  I  like  such  straightforward  conduct ; 
you  must  not,"  turning  to  the  governor,  "  be  angry  with  her.'* 
I  then  presented  the  governor  with  a  beautiful  opera  glass  I 
had  just  received  from  England,  and  begged  his  anger  at  me 
would  not  influence  him  to  treat  the  prisoners  with  unkindness, 


346  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    .JUD80N. 

and  I  would  endeavor,  from  time  to  time,  to  make  him 
such  presents  as  would  compensate  for  his  loss.  "  You  may 
intercede  for  your  husband  only;  for  your  sake  he  shall 
remain  where  he  is ;  but  let  the  other  prisoners  take  care  of 
themselves."  I  pleaded  hard  for  Dr.  Price ;  but  he  would 
not  listen,  and,  the  same  day,  had  him  returned  to  the  inner 
prison,  where  he  remained  ten  days.  He  was  then  taken  out, 
in  consequence  of  the  doctor's  promising  a  piece  of  broad- 
cloth, and  my  sending  two  pieces  of  handkerchiefs. 

About  this  period,  I  was  one  day  summoned  to  the  Lut- 
d'hau,  in  an  othcial  way.  What  new  evil  was  before  me  I  knew 
not,  but  was  obliged  to  go.  When  arrived,  I  was  allowed  to 
stand  at  the  bottom  of  the  stairs,  as  no  female  is  permitted  to 
ascend  the  steps,  or  even  to  stand,  but  sit  on  the  ground. 
Hundreds  were  collected  around.  The  officer  who  presided, 
in  an  authoritative  voice,  began :  "  Speak  the  truth  in  answer 
to  the  questions  I  shall  ask.  If  you  speak  true,  no  evil  will 
follow  ;  but  if  not,  your  life  will  not  be  spared.  It  is  reported 
that  you  have  committed  to  the  care  of  a  Burmese  officer  a 
string  of  pearls,  a  pair  of  diamond  earrings,  and  a  silver  tea- 
pot. Is  it  true  ?  "  "  It  is  not,"  I  replied ;  "  and  if  you  or 
any  other  person  can  produce  these  articles,  I  refuse  not  to 
die."  The  officer  again  urged  the  necessity  of  "speaking 
true."  I  told  him  I  had  nothing  more  to  say  on  the  subject, 
but  beo-o-ed  he  would  use  his  influence  to  obtain  the  release  of 
Mr.  Judson  from  prison. 

I  returned  to  the  house  with  a  heart  much  lighter  than  I 
went,  though  conscious  of  my  perpetual  exposure  to  such  har- 
assments.  Notwithstanding  the  repulse  I  had  met  in  my 
application  to  the  queen,  I  could  not  remain  w^ithout  making 
continual  effiDrt  for  your  brother's  release,  while  there  was  the 
least  probability  of  success.  Time  after  time,  my  visits  to  the 
queen's  sister-in-law  were  repeated,  till  she  refused  to  answer 
a  question,  and  told  me  by  her  looks  I  had  better  keep  out  of 
her  presence.  For  the  seven  following  months,  hardly  a  day 
passed  that  I  did  not  visit  some  one  of  the  members  of  govern- 
ment, or  branches  of  the  royal  family,  in  order  to  gain  their 


EXTORTIONS    AND    OrrRKSSIONS.  347 

influence  in  our  behalf;  but  the  only  benefit  resulting  was, 
their  encouraging  promises  preserved  us  from  despair,  and 
induced  a  hope  of  the  speedy  termination  of  our  dilliculties, 
which  enabled  us  to  bear  our  distresses  better  than  we  other- 
wise should  have  done.  I  ought,  however,  to  mention  that,  by 
my  repeated  visits  to  the  different  members  of  government,  I 
gained  several  friends,  who  were  ready  to  assist  me  with  arti- 
cles of  food,  though  in  a  private  manner,  and  who  used  their 
influence  in  the  palace  to  destroy  the  impression  of  our  being 
in  any  way  engaged  in  the  present  war.  But  no  one  dared  to 
speak  a  word  to  the  king  or  queen  in  favor  of  a  foreigner, 
while  there  were  such  continual  reports  of  the  success  of  the 
English  arms. 

During  these  seven  months,  the  continual  extortions  and 
oppressions  to  which  your  brother  and  the  other  white  prison- 
ers were  subject  are  indescribable.  Sometimes  sums  of  money 
were  demanded,  sometimes  pieces  of  cloth,  and  handkerchiefs  ; 
at  other  times  an  order  would  be  issued  that  the  white  foreign- 
ers should  not  speak  to  each  other,  or  have  any  communica- 
tion with  their  friends  without.  Then,  again,  the  servants 
were  forbidden  to  carry  in  their  food  without  an  extra  fee. 
Sometimes,  for  days  and  days  together,  I  could  not  go  into  the 
prison  till  after  dark,  when  I  had  two  miles  to  walk  in  return- 
ing to  the  house.  O,  how  many,  many  times  have  I  returned 
from  that  dreary  prison  at  nine  o'clock  at  night,  solitary,  and 
worn  out  with  fatigue  and  anxiety,  and  thrown  myself  down 
in  that  same  rocking  chair  which  you  and  Deacon  L.  provided 
for  me  in  Boston,  and  endeavored  to  invent  some  new  scheme 
lor  the  release  of  the  prisoners.  Sometimes,  for  a  moment 
or  two,  my  thoughts  would  glance  towards  America,  and  my 
beloved  friends  there ;  but  for  nearly  a  year  and  a  half,  so 
entirely  engrossed  was  every  thought  with  present  scenes  and 
sufferings,  that  I  seldom  reflected  on  a  single  occurrence  of 
my  former  life,  or  recollected  that  I  had  a  friend  in  existence 
out  of  Ava. 

You,  my  dear  brother,  who  know  my  strong  attachment  to 
my  friends,  and  how  much  pleasure  I  have  hitherto  experi- 


348  MEMOIR    OF    DR.  .7UDSON. 

enced  from  retrospect,  can  judge  from  the  above  circumstances 
liow  intense  were  my  sufferings.  But  tlie  point,  the  acme  of 
my  distress,  consisted  in  the  awful  uncertainty  of  our  final  fate. 
My  prevailing  opinion  was,  that  my  husband  w^ould  suffer  vio- 
lent death,  and  that  I  should,  of  course,  become  a  slave,  and 
languish  out  a  miserable  though  short  existence  in  tlie  tyran- 
nic hands  of  some  unfeeling  monster.  But  the  consolations  of 
rehgion,  in  these  trying  circumstances,  were  neither  "  few  nor 
small."  It  taught  me  to  look  beyond  this  world,  to  that  rest, 
that  peaceful,  happy  rest,  where  Jesus  reigns,  and  oppression 
never  enters.  But  how  have  I  digressed  from  my  relation  ! 
I  will  again  return. 

The  war  was  now  prosecuted  with  all  the  energy  the 
Burmese  government  possessed.  New  troops  were  continu- 
ally raised  and  sent  down  the  river,  and  as  frequent  reports 
returned  of  their  being  all  cut  off.  But  that  part  of  the  Bur- 
mese army  stationed  in  Arracan,  under  the  command  of  Ban- 
doola,  had  been  more  successful.  Three  hundred  prisoners, 
at  one  time,  were  sent  to  the  capital,  as  an  evidence  of  the 
victory  that  had  been  gained.  The  king  began  to  think  that 
none  but  Bandoola  understood  the  art  of  fighting  with  for- 
eigners ;  consequently,  his  majesty  recalled  him,  with  the 
design  of  his  taking  command  of  the  army  that  had  been  sent 
to  Rangoon.  On  his  arrival  at  Ava,  he  was  received  at  court 
in  the  most  flattering  manner,  and  was  the  recipient  of  every 
favor  in  the  power  of  the  king  and  queen  to  bestow.  Pie  was, 
in  fact,  while  at  Ava,  tlie  acting  king.  I  was  resolved  to  apply 
to  him  for  the  release  of  the  missionaries,  though  some  mem- 
bers of  government  advised  me  not,  lest  he,  being  reminded 
of  their  existence,  should  issue  an  immediate  order  for  their 
execution.  But  it  was  my  last  hope,  and,  as  it  proved,  my 
last  application. 

Your  brother  wrote  a  petition  privately,  stating  every  cir- 
cumstance that  would  have  a  tendency  to  interest  him  in  our 
behalf.  With  fear  and  trembling  I  approached  him,  while 
surrounded  by  a  crowd  of  flatterers ;  and  one  of  his  secreta- 
ries took  the  petition,  and  read  it  aloud.      After  hearing  it,  he 


TEMPORARY    ALLEYIATIOX.  349 

spoke  to  me  in  an  obliging  manner,  asked  several  questions 
relative  to  the  teachers,  said  he  would  tliink  of*  the  subject, 
and  bade  me  come  again.  I  ran  to  the  prison  to  communicate 
the  favorable  reception  to  Mr.  Judson ;  and  we  both  had  san- 
guine hopes  that  his  release  was  at  hand.  But  the  governor 
of  the  city  expressed  his  amazement  at  my  temerity,  and  said 
he  doubted  not  it  would  be  the  means  of  destroying  all  the 
prisoners.  In  a  day  or  two,  however,  I  went  again,  and  took 
a  present  of  considerable  value.  Bandoola  was  not  at  home  ; 
but  his  lady,  after  ordering  the  present  to  be  taken  into  another 
room,  modestly  informed  me  that  she  was  ordered  by  her  hus- 
band to  make  the  following  communication :  that  he  was  now 
very  busily  employed  in  making  preparations  for  Eangoon  ; 
but  that  when  he  had  retaken  that  place,  and  expelled  the 
English,  he  would  return  and  release  all  the  prisoners. 

Thus,  again,  were  all  our  hopes  dashed  ;  and  we  felt  that 
we  could  do  notliing  more,  but  sit  down  and  submit  to  our  lot. 
From  this  time  we  gave  up  all  idea  of  being  released  from 
prison  till  the  termination  of  the  war ;  but  I  was  still  obliged 
to  visit  constantly  some  of  the  members  of  government,  with 
little  presents,  particularly  the  governor  of  the  city,  for  the 
purpose  of  making  the  situation  of  the  prisoners  tolerable.  I 
generally  spent  the  greater  part  of  every  other  day  at  the 
governor's  house,  giving  him  minute  information  relative  to 
American  manners,  customs,  government,  &c.  He  used  to  be 
so  much  gratified  with  my  communications,  as  to  feel  greatly 
disappointed  if  any  occurrence  prevented  my  spending  the 
usual  hours  at  his  house. 

Some  months  after  your  brother's  imprisonment,  I  was  per- 
mitted to  make  a  little  bamboo  room  in  the  prison  enclosure, 
where  he  could  be  much  by  himself,  and  where  I  was  some- 
times allowed  to  spend  two  or  three  hours.  It  so  happened 
that  the  two  months  he  occupied  this  place  were  the  coldest 
of  the  year,  when  he  would  have  suffered  much  in  the  open 
shed  he  had  previously  occupied.  After  the  birth  of  your 
little  niece,  I  was  unable  to  visit  the  prison  and  the  gov- 
ernor as  before,  and  found  I  had  lost  considerable  influence, 
VOL.  I.  30 


350  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

previously  gnined  ;  for  lie  was  not  so  forward  to  hear  my 
petitions,  when  any  dilliculty  occurred,  as  he  formerly  had 
been.  When  Maria  was  nearly  two  months  old,  her  father 
one  morning  sent  me  word  that  he  and  all  the  white  prisoners 
were  put  into  the  inner  prison,  in  five  pairs  of  fetters  each, 
that  his  little  room  had  been  torn  down,  and  his  mat,  pil- 
low, Sec,  been  taken  by  the  jailers.  This  was  to  me  a 
dreadful  shock,  as  I  thought  at  once  it  was  only  a  prelude  to 
greater  evils. 

I  should  have  mentioned  before  this  the  defeat  of  Bandoola, 
his  escape  to  Danooyboo,  the  complete  destruction  of  his  army 
and  loss  of  ammunition,  and  the  consternation  this  intelligence 
produced  at  court.  The  English  army  had  left  Rangoon,  and 
were  advancing  towards  Prome,  when  these  severe  measures 
were  taken  with  the  prisoners. 

I  went  immediately  to  the  governor's  house.  He  was  not 
at  home,  but  had  ordered  his  wife  to  tell  me,  when  I  came,  not 
to  ask  to  have  the  additional  fetters  taken  off,  or  the  prisoners 
released,  for  it  could  7iot  he  done.  I  went  to  the  prison  gate, 
but  was  forbidden  to  enter.  All  was  as  still  as  death  —  not  a 
white  face  to  be  seen,  or  a  vestige  of  Mr.  Judson's  little  room 
remaining.  I  was  determined  to  see  the  governor,  and  know 
the  cause  of  this  additional  oppression,  and  for  this  purpose 
returned  into  town  the  same  evening,  at  an  hour  I  knew  he 
would  be  at  home.  He  was  in  his  audience  room,  and,  as  I 
entered,  looked  up  without  speaking,  but  exhibited  a  mixture 
of  shame  and  affected  anger  in  his  countenance.  I  began  by 
saying,  "  Your  lordship  has  hitherto  treated  us  with  the  kind- 
ness of  a  father.  Our  obligations  to  you  are  very  great.  We 
have  looked  to  you  for  protection  from  oppression  and  cruelty. 
You  have  in  many  instances  mitigated  the  sufferings  of  those 
unfortunate  though  innocent  beings  committed  to  your  charge. 
You  have  promised  me  particularly  that  you  would  stand  by 
me  to  the  last,  and  though  you  should  receive  an  order  from 
the  king,  you  Avould  not  put  Mr.  Judson  to  death.  What 
crime  has  he  committed  to  deserve  such  additional  punish- 
ment ?  "     The  old  man's  hard  heart  was  melted,  for  he  wept 


MILITARY    REVERSES    AND    FRESH    CRUELTIES.  351 

like  a  cliild.  "  I  pity  yon,  Tsa-yar-ga-dau  "  —  a  name  by  Avhich 
he  always  called  me  ;  "  I  knew  you  would  make  me  feel ;  I 
therefore  forbade  your  application.  But  you  must  believe  me 
when  I  say  I  do  not  wish  to  increase  the  sufferings  of  the 
prisoners.  When  I  am  ordered  to  execute  them,  the  least 
that  I  can  do  is,  to  put  them  out  of  sight.  I  will  now  tell 
you,"  continued  he,  "  what  I  have  never  told  you  before  —  that 
three  times  I  have  received  intimations  from  the  queen's 
brother  to  assassinate  all  the  white  prisoners  privately ;  but 
I  would  not  do  it.  And  I  now  repeat  it,  though  I  execute  all 
the  others,  I  will  never  execute  your  husband.  But  I  cannot 
release  him  from  his  present  confinement,  and  you  must  not 
ask  it."  I  had  never  seen  him  manifest  so  much  feeling,  or  so 
resolute  in  denying  me  a  favor,  which  circumstance  was  an 
additional  reason  for  thinking  dreadful  scenes  were  before  us. 

The  situation  of  the  prisoners  was  now  distressing  beyond 
description.  It  was  at  the  commencement  of  the  hot  season. 
There  were  above  a  hundred  prisoners  shut  up  in  one  room, 
without  a  breath  cf  air  excepting  from  the  cracks  in  the 
boards.  I  sometimes  obtained  permission  to  go  to  the  door 
for  five  minutes,  when  my  heart  sickened  at  the  Avretchedness 
exhibited.  The  white  prisoners,  from  incessant  perspiration 
and  loss  of  appetite,  looked  more  like  the  dead  than  the  living. 
I  made  daily  applications  to  the  governor,  offering  him  money, 
which  he  refused  ;  but  all  that  I  gained  was  permission  for 
the  foreigners  to  eat  their  food  outside,  and  this  continued  but 
a  short  time. 

It  v»'as  at  this  period  that  the  death  of  Bandoola  was  an- 
nounced in  the  palace.  The  king  heard  it  with  silent  amaze- 
ment, and  the  queen,  in  eastern  style,  smote  upon  her  breast, 
and  cried,  "  Ama  !  ama  !  "  (alas,  alas.)  Who  could  be  found  to 
fill  his  place  ?  Who  would  venture,  since  the  invincible  Ban- 
doola had  been  cut  off?  Such  were  the  exclamations  con- 
stantly heard  in  the  streets  of  Ava.  The  common  people 
were  speaking  low  of  a  rebellion,  in  case  more  troops  sliould 
be  levied.  For  as  yet  the  common  people  had  borne  the 
weif]rht  of  the  war;    not   a  tical   had  been  taken  from  the 


352  ME^rOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

royal  treasuiy.  At  length  the  pakaji  Avoon,  who  a  few 
months  before  had  been  so  far  disgraced  by  the  kmg  as  to  be 
thrown  into  prison  and  irons,  now  offered  himself  to  head  a 
new  army  that  should  be  raised  on  a  different  plan  from  those 
which  had  hitherto  been  raised,  and  assured  the  king,  in  the 
most  confident  manner,  that  he  would  conquer  the  English, 
and  restore  those  places  that  had  been  taken  in  a  very  short 
time.  He  proposed  that  every  soldier  should  receive  a  hun- 
dred ticals  in  advance,  and  he  would  obtain  security  for  each 
man,  as  the  money  was  to  pass  through  his  hands.  It  was 
afterwards  found  that  he  had  taken,  for  his  own  use,  ten  ticals 
from  every  hundred.  He  was  a  man  of  enterprise  and 
talents,  though  a  violent  enemy  to  all  foreigners.  His  offers 
were  accepted  by  the  king  and  government,  and  all  power 
immediately  committed  to  him.  One  of  the  first  exercises  of 
his  power  was  to  arrest  Lanciego  and  the  Portuguese  priest, 
who  had  hitherto  remained  unmolested,  and  cast  them  into 
prison,  and  to  subject  the  native  Portuguese  and  Bengalees  to 
the  most  menial  occupations.  The  whole  town  was  in  alarm, 
lest  they  should  feel  the  effects  of  his  power  ;  and  it  was 
owing  to  the  malignant  representations  of  this  man,  that  the 
white  prisoners  suffered  such  a  change  in  their  circumstances 
as  I  shall  soon  relate. 

After  continuing  in  the  inner  prison  for  more  than  a 
month,  your  brother  was  taken  Avith  a  fever.  I  felt  assured 
he  would  not  live  long,  unless  removed  from  that  noisome 
place.  To  effect  this,  and  in  order  to  be  near  the  prison,  I 
removed  from  our  house,  and  put  up  a  small  bamboo  room  in 
the  governor's  enclosure,  which  was  nearly  opposite  the 
prison  gate.  Here  I  incessantly  begged  the  governor  to  give 
me  an  order  to  take  Mr.  Judson  out  of  the  large  prison,  and 
place  him  in  a  more  comfortable  situation ;  and  the  old  man, 
being  Avorn  out  with  my  entreaties,  at  length  gave  me  the 
order  in  an  official  form,  and  also  gave  orders  to  the  head 
jailer  to  allow  me  to  go  in  and  out,  all  times  of  the  day,  to 
administer  medicines,  &c.  I  now  felt  happy  indeed,  and  had 
Mr.  Judson  instantly  removed  into  a  little  bamboo  hovel,  so 


REMOVAL    OF    THE    PRISONERS.  606 

low  that  neither  of  us  could  stand  upright —  but  a  palace  in 
comparison  with  the  place  he  had  left. 

Notwithstanding  the  order  the  governor  had  given  for 
my  admittance  into  prison,  it  was  with  the  greatest  difficulty 
that  I  could  persuade  the  under  jailer  to  open  the  gate.  I 
used  to  carry  Mr.  Judson's  food  myself,  for  the  sake  of  getting 
in,  and  would  then  remain  an  hour  or  two,  unless  driven  out. 
We  had  been  in  this  comfortable  situation  but  two  or  three 
days,  when,  one  morning,  having  carried  in  Mr.  Judson's 
breakfast,  which,  in  consequence  of  fever,  he  was  unable  to 
take,  I  remained  longer  than  usual,  when  the  governor,  in 
great  haste,  sent  for  me.  I  promised  to  return  as  soon 
as  I  had  ascertained  the  governor's  will,  he  being  much 
alarmed  at  this  unusual  message.  I  was  very  agreeably  dis- 
appointed "when  the  governor  informed  me  that  he  only 
"Nvished  to  consult  me  about  his  watch,  and  seemed  unusually 
pleasant  and  conversable.  I  found  afterwards  that  his  only 
object  was  to  detain  me  until  the  dreadful  scene  about  to 
take  place  in  the  prison  was  over.  For  when  I  left  him  to 
go  to  my  room,  one  of  the  servants  came  running,  and  with  a 
ghastly  countenance,  informed  me  that  all  the  white  prisoners 
were  carried  away.  I  would  not  believe  the  report,  and 
instantly  went  back  to  the  governor,  who  said  he  had  just 
heard  of  it,  but  did  not  w^ish  to  tell  me.  I  hastily  ran  into 
the  street,  hoping  to  get  a  glimpse  of  them  before  they  were 
out  of  sight,  but  in  this  was  disappointed.  I  ran  first  into  one 
street,  then  another,  inquiring  of  all  I  met ;  but  no  one  would 
answer  me.  At  length  an  old  woman  told  me  the  white 
prisoners  had  gone  towards  the  little  river ;  for  they  were  to 
be  carried  to  Amarapoora.  I  then  ran  to  the  banks  of  the  little 
river,  about  half  a  mile,  but  saw  them  not,  and  concluded  the  old 
woman  had  deceived  me.  Some  of  the  friends  of  the  foreign- 
ers went  to  the  place  of  execution,  but  found  them  not.  I 
then  returned  to  the  governor,  to  try  to  discover  the  cause 
of  their  removal,  and  the  probability  of  their  future  fate. 
The  old  man  assured  me  that  he  was  ignorant  of  the  inten- 
tion of  government  to  remove  the  foreigners  till  that  morning  ; 
30* 


35-i  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

that,  since  I  went  out,  he  had  learned  that  the  prisoners 
were  to  be  sent  to  Amarapoora,  but  for  what  purpose  he  knew 
not.  "  I  will  send  oft'  a  man  immediately,"  said  he,  "  to  see 
what  is  to  be  done  with  them.  You  can  do  nothing  more  for 
your  husband,"  continued  he  ;  "  take  care  of  yourself  .'^  With  a 
heavy  heart  I  went  to  my  room,  and  having  no  hope  to  excite 
me  to  exertion,  I  sank  down  almost  in  despair.  For  several 
days  previous,  I  had  been  actively  engaged  in  building  my 
own  little  room,  and  making  our  hovel  comfortable.  My 
thoughts  had  been  almost  entirely  occupied  in  contriving 
means  to  get  into  prison.  But  now  I  looked  towards  the 
gate  with  a  kind  of  melancholy  feeling,  but  no  wish  to  enter. 
All  was  the  stillness  of  death  ;  no  preparation  of  your  brother's 
food,  no  expectation  of  meeting  him  at  the  usual  dinner  hour ; 
all  my  employment,  all  my  occupations,  seemed  to  have 
ceased,  and  I  had  nothing  left  but  the  dreadful  recollection 
that  Mr.  Judson  was  carried  off",  I  knew  not  whither.  It  was 
one  of  the  most  insupportable  days  I  ever  passed.  Towards 
night,  however,  I  came  to  the  determination  to  set  oft*  the 
next  morning  for  Amarapoora,  and  for  this  purpose  was 
obliged  to  go  to  our  house  out  of  town. 

Never  before  had  I  suffered  so  much  from  fear  in  travers- 
ing the  streets  of  Ava.  The  last  words  of  the  governor, 
"  Take  care  of  yourself,"  made  me  suspect  there  was  some 
design  with  which  I  was  unacquainted.  I  saw,  also,  he  was 
afraid  to  have  me  go  into  the  streets,  and  advised  me  to  vrait 
till  dark,  when  he  would  send  me  in  a  cart,  and  a  man  to 
open  the  gates.  I  took  two  or  three  trunks  of  the  most 
valuable  articles,  together  with  the  medicine  chest,  to  deposit 
in  the  house  of  the  governor ;  and  after  committing  the  house 
and  premises  to  our  faithful  Moung  Ing  and  a  Bengalee  ser- 
vant, who  continued  with  us,  though  we  were  unable  to  pay 
his  wages,  I  took  leave,  as  I  then  thought  probable,  of  our 
house  in  Ava  forever. 

On  my  return  to  the  governor's,  I  found  a  servant  of  Mr. 
Gouger,  who  happened  to  be  near  the  prison  when  the 
foreigners  were  led  out,  and  followed  on  to  see  the  end,  who 


OUNG-PEN-LA.  355 

informed  me  that  the  prisoners  had  been  earned  before  the 
lamine  woon,  at  Amarapoora,  and  were  to  be  sent  the  next  day 
to  a  village  he  knew  not  liow  far  distant.  'My  distress  was  a 
little  relieved  by  the  intelligence  that  our  friend  was  yet  alive  ; 
but  still  I  knew  not  what  was  to  become  of  him.  The  next 
morning  I  obtained  a  pass  from  government,  and  with  my 
little  Maria,  who  was  then  only  three  months  old,  Mary  and 
Abby  Hasseltine,  two  of  the  Burraan  children,  and  our 
Bengalee  cook,  who  was  the  only  one  of  the  party  that  could 
afford  me  any  assistance,  I  set  off  for  Amarapoora.  The  day 
was  dreadfully  hot ;  but  we  obtained  a  covered  boat,  in  which 
we  were  tolerably  comfortable,  till  within  two  miles  of  the 
government  house.  I  then  procured  a  cart ;  but  the  violent 
motion,  together  with  the  dreadful  heat  and  dust,  made  me 
almost  distracted.  But  v.diat  was  my  disappointment,  on  my 
arriving  at  the  court  house,  to  find  that  the  prisoners  had  been 
sent  on  two  hours  before,  and  that  I  must  go  in  that  uncom- 
fortable mode  four  miles  farther  with  little  Maria  in  my  arms, 
whom  I  held  all  the  way  from  Ava.  The  cartman  refused 
to  go  any  further ;  and  after  waiting  an  hour  in  the  burning 
sun,  I  procured  another,  and  set  off  for  that  never-to-be- 
forgotten  place,  Oung-pen-la.  I  obtained  a  guide  from  the 
governor,  and  was  conducted  directly  to  the  prison  yard. 
But  what  a  scene  of  wretchedness  was  presented  to  my  view ! 
The  prison  was  an  old,  shattered  building,  without  a  roof;  the 
fence  was  entirely  destroyed ;  eight  or  ten  Burmese  were  on 
the  top  of  the  building,  trying  to  make  something  like  a 
shelter  with  leaves ;  while  under  a  little  low  projection  outside 
of  the  prison  sat  the  foreigners,  chained  together  two  and  two, 
almost  dead  with  suffering  and  fatigue.  The  first  words  of 
your  brother  were,  "  Why  have  you  come  ?  I  hoped  you 
would  not  follow,  for  you  cannot  live  here."  It  was  now 
dark.  I  had  no  refreshment  for  the  suffering  prisoners,  or  for 
myself,  as  I  had  expected  to  procure  all  that  was  necessary  at 
the  market  of  Amarapoora,  and  I  had  no  shelter  for  the  night. 
J.  asked  one  of  the  jailers  if  I  might  put  up  a  little  bamboo 
house  near  the  prison  ;  he  said  no,  it  was  not  customar3\     I 


356  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

then  begged  he  would  procure  me  a  sheUer  for  the  night, 
when  on  the  morrow  I  could  find  some  place  to  live  in.  He 
took  me  to  his  house,  in  which  there  were  only  two  small 
rooms  —  one  in  which  he  and  his  family  lived;  the  other, 
which  was  then  half  full  of  grain,  he  offered  to  me ;  and  in 
that  little  filthy  place  I  spent  the  next  six  months  of  wretch- 
edness. I  procured  some  half-boiled  water,  instead  of  my 
tea,  and,  worn  out  with  fatigue,  laid  mj^self  down  on  a  mat 
spread  over  the  paddy,  and  endeavored  to  obtain  a  little 
refreshment  from  sleep.  The  next  morning  your  brother 
gave  me  the  following  account  of  the  brutal  treatment  he  had 
received  on  being  taken  out  of  prison. 

As  soon  as  I  had  gone  out  at  the  call  of  the  governor,  one 
of  the  jailers  rushed  into  Mr.  Judson's  little  room,  roughly 
seized  him  by  the  arm,  pulled  him  out,  stripped  him  of  all  his 
clothes  excepting  shirt  and  pantaloons,  took  his  shoes,  hat, 
and  all  his  bedding,  tore  off  his  chains,  tied  a  rope  round  his 
waist,  and  dragged  him  to  the  court  house,  where  the  other 
prisoners  had  previously  been  taken.  They  were  then  tied 
two  and  two,  and  delivered  into  the  hands  of  the  lamine  woon, 
who  Avent  on  before  them  on  horseback,  while  his  slaves  drove 
the  prisoners,  one  of  the  slaves  holding  the  ro2:)e  which  con- 
nected two  of  them  together.  It  was  in  May,  one  of  the  hot- 
test months  in  tlie  year,  and  eleven  o'clock  in  the  day,  so  that 
the  sun  was  intolerable  indeed.  They  had  proceeded  only 
half  a  mile,  when  your  brother's  feet  became  blistered  ;  and 
so  great  was  his  agony,  even  at  this  early  period,  that  as  they 
were  crossing  the  little  river,  he  ardently  longed  to  throw 
himself  into  the  water  to  be  free  from  misery.  But  the  sin 
attached  to  such  an  act  alone  prevented.  They  had  then 
eight  miles  to  walk.  The  sand  and  gravel  were  like  burning 
coals  to  the  feet  of  the  prisoners,  which  soon  became  perfectly 
destitute  of  skin ;  and  in  this  wretched  state  they  Avere  goaded 
on  by  their  unfeeling  drivers.  Mr.  Judson's  debilitated  state, 
in  consequence  of  fever,  and  having  taken  no  food  that  morn- 
ing, rendered  him  less  capable  of  bearing  such  hardships  than 
the  other  prisoners.     When  about  half  way  on  their  journey, 


OUNG-PEN-LA.  357 

as  they  stopped  for  water,  your  brother  begged  the  lamine 
woon  to  allow  him  to  ride  his  horse  a  mile  or  two,  as  he  could 
proceed  no  farther  in  that  dreadful  state.  But  a  scornful, 
malignant  look  was  all  the  reply  that  was  made.  He  then 
requested  Captain  Laird,  who  was  tied  with  him,  and  who 
was  a  strong,  healthy  man,  to  allow  him  to  take  hold  of  his 
shoulder,  as  he  was  fast  sinking.  This  the  kind-hearted  man 
granted  for  a  mile  or  two,  but  then  found  the  additional  bur- 
den insupportable.  Just  at  that  period,  Mr.  Gouger's  Ben- 
galee servant  came  up  to  them,  and,  seeing  the  distresses  of 
your  brother,  took  off  his  headdress,  wdiich  was  made  of 
cloth,  tore  it  in  two,  gave  half  to  his  master,  and  half  to  Mr. 
Judson,  which  he  instantly  w^rapped  round  his  wounded  feet, 
as  they  were  not  allowed  to  rest  even  for  a  moment.  The 
servant  then  offered  his  shoulder  to  Mr.  Judson,  who  was 
almost  carried  by  him  the  remainder  of  the  way.  Had  it  not 
been  for  the  support  and  assistance  of  this  man,  your  brother 
thinks  he  should  have  shared  the  fate  of  the  poor  Greek,  who 
was  one  of  their  number,  and,  when  taken  out  of  prison  that 
morning,  was  in  perfect  health.  But  he  was  a  corpulent  man, 
and  the  sun  affected  him  so  much  that  he  fell  down  on  the 
way.  His  inhuman  drivers  beat  and  dragged  him  until  they 
themselves  were  wearied,  when  they  procured  a  cart,  in  which 
he  was  carried  the  remaining  two  miles.  But  the  j)Oor  crea- 
ture expired  in  an  hour  or  two  after  their  arrival  at  the  court 
house.  The  lamine  woon,  seeing  the  distressing  state  of  the 
prisoners,  and  that  one  of  their  number  Avas  dead,  concluded 
they  should  go  no  farther  that  night ;  otherwise  they  would 
have  been  driven  on  until  they  reached  Oung-pen-la  the  same 
day.  An  old  shed  was  appointed  for  their  abode  during  the 
night,  but  without  even  a  mat  or  pillow,  or  any  thing  to  cover 
them.  The  curiosity  of  the  lamine  woon's  wife  induced  her 
to  make  a  visit  to  the  prisoners,  whose  wretchedness  consid- 
erably excited  her  compassion,  and  she  ordered  some  fruit, 
sugai',  and  tamarinds  for  their  refreshment;  and  the  next 
morning,  rice  was  prepared  for  them  and,  as  poor  as  it  was,  it 
was  refreshing  to  the  prisoners,  who  had  been  almost  destitute 


358  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

of  food  the  day  before.  Carts  were  also  provided  for  their 
conveyance,  as  none  of  them  were  able  to  walk.  All  this 
time,  the  foreigners  were  entirely  ignorant  of  Avhat  was  to 
become  of  them  ;  and  Avhen  they  arrived  at  Oung-pen-la,  and 
saw  the  dilapidated  state  of  the  prison,  they  immediately,  all 
as  one,  concluded  that  they  were  there  to  be  burned,  agreeably 
to  the  report  which  had  previously  been  in  circulation  at  Ava. 
They  all  endeavored  to  prepare  themselves  for  the  awful 
scene  anticipated  ;  and  it  was  not  until  they  saw  preparations 
making  for  repairing  the  prison,  that  they  had  the  least  doubt 
that  a  cruel,  lingering  death  awaited  them.  My  arrival  was 
in  an  hour  or  two  after  this. 

The  next  morning,  I  arose,  and  endeavored  to  find  some- 
thing like  food.  But  there  was  no  market,  and  nothing  to 
be  procured.  One  of  Dr.  Price's  friends,  however,  brought 
some  cold  rice  and  vegetable  curry  from  Amarapoora, 
which,  together  with  a  cup  of  tea  from  Mr.  Lanciego,  an- 
swered for  the  breakflxst  of  the  prisoners  ;  and  for  dinner  we 
made  a  curry  of  dried  salt  fish,  which  a  servant  of  Mr.  Gou- 
ger  had  brought.  All  the  money  I  could  command  in  the 
world  I  had  brought  with  me,  secreted  about  my  person  ;  so 
you  may  judge  what  our  prospects  were,  in  case  the  war 
should  continue  long.  But  our  heavenly  Father  was  better 
to  us  than  our  fears  ;  for,  notAvithstanding  the  constant  extor- 
tions of  the  jailers  during  the  whole  six  months  we  were  at 
Oung-pen-la,  and  the  frequent  straits  to  which  we  were 
brought,  we  never  really  suffered  for  the  want  of  money, 
though  frequently  for  want  of  provisions,  which  were  not  pro- 
curable. Here  at  this  place  my  personal  bodily  sufferings 
commenced.  While  your  brother  was  confined  in  the  city 
prison,  I  had  been  allowed  to  remain  in  our  house,  in  which 
I  had  many  conveniences  left,  and  my  health  had  continued 
good  beyond  all  expectations.  But  now  I  had  not  a  single 
article  of  convenience  —  not  even  a  chair  or  seat  of  any  kind, 
excepting  a  bamboo  floor.  The  very  morning  after  my  arri- 
val, Mary  Hasseltine  was  taken  witli  the  small-pox,  the  natu- 
ral way.     She,  though  very  young,  was  the  only  assistant  I 


OUNG-PEN-LA.  359 

had  in  taking  care  of  little  Maria.  But  she  now  required  all 
the  time  I  could  spare  from  Mr.  Judson,  wliose  fever  still 
continued,  in  prison,  and  whose  feet  were  so  dreadfully  man- 
gled that  for  several  days  he  was  unable  to  move.  I  knew 
not  what  to  do,  for  I  could  procure  no  assistance  from  the 
neighborhood,  or  medicine  for  the  sufferers,  but  was  all  day 
long  going  backwards  and  forwards  from  the  house  to  the 
prison  with  little  Maria  in  my  arms.  Sometimes  I  was 
greatly  relieved  by  leaving  her  for  an  hour,  when  asleep,  by 
the  side  of  her  father,  while  I  returned  to  the  house  to  look 
after  Mary,  whose  fever  ran  so  high  as  to  jproduce  delirium. 
She  was  so  completely  covered  with  the  small-pox,  that  there 
was  no  distinction  in  the  pustules.  As  she  was  in  the  same 
little  room  with  myself,  I  knew  Maria  would  take  it ;  I  there- 
fore inoculated  her  from  another  child,  before  Mary's  had 
arrived  at  such  a  state  as  to  be  infectious.  At  the  same  time, 
I  inoculated  Abby  and  the  jailer's  children,  who  all  had  it  so 
lightly  as  hardly  to  interrupt  their  play.  But  the  inoculation 
in  the  arm  of  my  poor  little  Maria  did  not  take  ;  she  caught 
it  of  Mary,  and  had  it  tlie  natural  way.  She  was  then  only 
three  months  and  a  half  old,  and  had  been  a  most  healthy 
child ;  but  it  was  above  three  months  before  she  perfectly 
recovered  from  the  effects  of  this  dreadful  disorder. 

You  will  recollect  I  never  had  the  small-pox,  but  was  vac- 
cinated previously  to  leaving  America.  In  consequence  of 
being  for  so  long  a  time  constantly  exposed,  I  had  nearly  a 
hundred  pustules  formed,  though  no  previous  symptoms  of 
fever,  &c.  The  jailer's  children  having  had  the  small-pox  so 
lightly,  in  consequence  of  inoculation,  my  fame  was  spread 
all  over  the  village,  and  every  child,  young  and  old,  who 
had  not  previously  had  it,  was  brought  for  inoculation.  And 
although  I  knew  nothing  about  the  disorder,  or  the  mode  of 
treating  it,  I  inoculated  them  all  with  a  needle,  and  told  them 
to  take  care  of  their  diet  —  all  the  instructions  I  could  give 
them.  Mr.  Judson's  health  was  gradually  restored,  and  he 
found  himself  much  more  comfortably  situated  than  when  in 
the  city  prison. 


360  MEMOIR    OF    DK.    JUDSON. 

The  prisoners  were  at  first  cliained  two  and  two ;  but  as 
soon  as  the  jailers  could  obtain  chains  sufficient,  they  were 
separated,  and  each  prisoner  had  but  one  pair.  The  j)rison 
was  repaired,  a  new  fence  made,  and  a  large,  airy  shed  erect- 
ed in  front  of  the  prison,  where  the  prisoners  Avere  allowed  to 
remain  during  the  day,  though  locked  up  in  the  little  close 
prison  at  night.  All  the  children  recovered  from  the  small- 
pox ;  but  my  watchings  and  fatigue,  together  with  my  misera- 
ble food,  and  more  miserable  lodgings,  brought  on  one  of  the 
diseases  of  the  country,  Avhich  is  almost  always  fatal  to  for- 
eigners. My  constitution  seemed  destroyed,  and  in  a  few 
days  I  became  so  weak  as  to  be  hardly  able  to  walk  to  INIr. 
Judson's  prison.  In  this  debilitated  state  I  set  off  in  a  cart 
for  Ava,  to  procure  medicines  and  some  suitable  food,  leaving 
the  cook  to  supply  my  place.  I  reached  the  house  in  safety, 
and  for  two  or  three  days  the  disorder  seemed  at  a  stand ; 
after  which  it  attacked  me  so  violently  that  I  had  no  hopes 
of  recovery  left ;  and  my  only  anxiety  now  was,  to  return  to 
Oung-pen-la,  to  die  near  the  prison.  It  was  with  the  great- 
est difficulty  that  I  obtained  the  medicine  chest  from  the  gov- 
ernor, and  then  had  no  one  to  administer  medicine.  I,  how- 
ever, got  at  the  laudanum,  and  by  taking  two  drops  at  a  time 
for  several  hours,  it  so  far  checked  the  disorder  as  to  enable 
me  to  get  on  board  a  boat,  though  so  weak  that  I  could  not 
stand,  and  again  set  off  for  Oung-pen-la.  The  last  four  miles 
was  in  that  painful  conveyance,  the  cart,  and  in  the  midst  of 
the  rainy  season,  when  the  mud  almost  buries  the  oxen.  You 
may  form  some  idea  of  a  Burmese  cart,  when  I  tell  you  their 
wheels  are  not  constructed  like  ours,  but  are  simply  round 
thick  planks  with  a  hole  in  the  middle,  through  which  a  pole, 
that  supports  the  body,  is  thrust. 

I  just  reached  Oung  pen-la  when  my  strength  seemed  entirely 
exhausted.  The  good  native  cook  came  out  to  help  me  into 
the  house ;  but  so  altered  and  emaciated  was  my  appearance, 
that  the  poor  fellow  burst  into  tears  at  the  first  sight.  I 
crawled  on  to  the  mat  in  the  little  room,  to  which  I  was  con- 
fined for  more  than  two  months,  and  never  perfectly  recovered 


OUNG-PEN-LA.  361 

until  I  came  to  the  English  camp.  At  this  period,  when  I 
was  un.'ible  to  take  care  of  myself,  or  look  after  Mr.  Judson, 
we  must  both  have  died,  had  it  not  been  for  the  faithful  and 
affectionate  care  of  our  Bengalee  cook.  A  common  Bengalee 
cook  will  do  nothing  but  the  simple  business  of  cooking ;  but 
he  seemed  to  forget  his  caste,  and  almost  his  own  wants,  in  his 
efforts  to  serve  us.  He  would  provide,  cook,  and  carry  your 
brother's  food,  and  then  return  and  take  care  of  me.  I  have 
frequently  known  him  not  to  taste  of  food  till  near  night,  in 
consequence  of  having  to  go  so  far  for  wood  and  water,  and  in 
order  to  have  Mr.  Judson's  dinner  ready  at  the  usual  hour. 
He  never  complained,  never  asked  for  his  wages,  and  never 
for  a  moment  hesitated  to  go  any  where,  or  to  perform  any  act 
we  required.  I  take  great  pleasure  in  speaking  of  the  faith- 
ful conduct  of  this  servant,  who  is  still  with  us,  and  I  trust  has 
been  well  rewarded  for  his  services. 

Our  dear  little  Maria  was  the  greatest  suflferer  at  this  time, 
my  illness  depriving  her  of  her  usual  nourishment,  and  neither 
a  nurse  nor  a  drop  of  milk  could  be  procured  in  the  village. 
By  making  presents  to  the  jailers,  I  obtained  leave  for  Mr. 
Judson  to  come  out  of  prison,  and  take  the  emaciated  creature 
around  the  village,  to  beg  a  little  nourishment  from  those  moth- 
ers who  had  young  children.  Her  cries  in  the  night  were 
heart-rending,  when  it  was  impossible  to  supply  her  wants. 
I  now  began  to  think  the  very  afflictions  of  Job  had  come  upon 
me.  When  in  health,  I  could  bear  the  various  trials  and 
vicissitudes  through  which  I  was  called  to  pass.  But  to  be 
confined  with  sickness,  and  unable  to  assist  those  who  were  so 
dear  to  me,  when  in  distress,  was  almost  too  much  for  me  to 
bear ;  and  had  it  not  been  for  the  consolations  of  religion,  and 
an  assured  conviction  that  every  additional  trial  was  ordered 
by  infinite  love  and  mercy,  I  must  have  sunk  under  my  accu- 
mulated sufferings.  Sometimes  our  jailers  seemed  a  little 
softened  at  our  distress,  and,  for  several  days  together,  allowed 
Mr.  Judson  to  come  to  the  house,  which  was  to  me  an  unspeak- 
able consolation.  Then,  again,  they  would  be  as  iron-hearted 
in  their  demands  as  though  we  were  free  from  sufferings,  and 
VOL.   I.  31 


362  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

ill  affluent  circumstances.  The  annoyance,  the  extortions, 
and  oppressions,  to  which  we  were  subject  during  our  six 
months'  residence  in  Oung-pen-la,  are  beyond  enumeration  or 
description. 

It  was  some  time  after  our  arrival  at  Oung-pen-la  that  we 
heard  of  the  execution  of  the  pakan  woon,  in  consequence  of 
which  our  lives  were  still  preserved.  For  we  afterwards 
ascertained  that  the  white  foreigners  had  been  sent  to  Oung- 
pen-la  for  the  express  purpose  of  sacrificing  them ;  and  that 
he  himself  intended  witnessing  the  horrid  scene.  We  had  fre- 
quently heard  of  his  intended  arrival  at  Oung-pen-la,  but  we 
had  no  idea  of  his  diabolical  purposes.  He  had  raised  an 
army  of  fifty  thousand  men,  (a  tenth  part  of  whose  advance 
pay  was  found  in  his  house,)  and  expected  to  march  against 
the  English  army  in  a  short  time,  when  he  was  suspected  of 
high  treason,  and  instantly  executed,  without  the  least  exam- 
ination. Perhaps  no  death  in  Ava  ever  produced  such  uni- 
versal rejoicings  as  that  of  the  pakan  woon.  We  never,  to 
this  day,  hear  his  name  mentioned  but  with  an  epithet  of 
reproach  or  hatred.  Another  brother  of  the  king  was  appoint- 
ed to  the  command  of  the  army  now  in  readiness,  but  witJi  no 
very  sanguine  expectations  of  success.  Some  Aveeks  after  the 
departure  of  these  troops,  two  of  the  woon-gyees  were  sent 
down  for  the  purpose  of  negotiating.  But  not  being  success- 
ful, the  queen's  brother,  the  acting  king  of  the  country,  was 
prevailed  on  to  go.  Great  expectations  were  raised  in  conse- 
quence ;  but  his  cowardice  induced  him  to  encamp  his  detach- 
ment of  the  army  at  a  great  distance  from  the  English,  and 
even  at  a  distance  from  the  main  body  of  the  Burmese  army, 
whose  head  quarters  were  then  at  Maloun.  Thus  he  effected 
nothing,  though  reports  were  continually  reaching  us  that 
peace  was  nearly  concluded. 

The  time  at  length  arrived  for  our  release  from  the  dreary 
scenes  of  Oung-pen-la.  A  messenger  from  our  friend,  the 
governor  of  the  north  gate  of  the  palace,  informed  us  that  an 
order  had  been  given,  the  evening  before,  in  the  palace,  for 
Mr.  Judson's  release.     On  the  same  evening  an  official  order 


TRANSFERRED  TO  THE  BURMESE  CAMP.       363 

arrived ;  and,  with  a  joyful  heart,  I  set  about  preparing  for 
our  departure  early  the  following  morning.  But  an  unex- 
pected obstacle  occurred,  which  made  us  fear  that  /should  still 
be  retained  as  a  prisoner.  The  avaricious  jailers,  unwilling  to 
lose  their  prey,  insisted  that,  as  my  name  was  not  included  in 
the  order,  I  should  not  go.  In  vain  I  urged  that  I  was  not 
sent  there  as  a  prisoner,  and  that  they  had  no  authority  over 
me ;  they  still  determined  I  should  not  go,  and  forbade  the 
villagers  from  letting  me  a  cart.  Mr.  Judson  was  then  taken 
out  of  prison,  and  brought  to  the  jailers'  house,  where,  by 
promises  and  threatenings,  he  finally  gained  their  consent,  on 
condition  that  we  would  leave  the  remaining  part  of  our  pro- 
visions we  had  recently  received  from  Ava.  It  was  noon 
before  we  were  allowed  to  depart.  When  we  reached  Ama- 
rapoora,  Mr.  Judson  was  obliged  to  follow  the  guidance  of  the 
jailer,  who  conducted  him  to  the  governor  of  the  city.  Hav- 
ing made  all  necessary  inquiries,  the  governor  appointed 
another  guard,  which  conveyed  Mr.  Judson  to  the  court  house 
in  Ava,  at  which  place  he  arrived  some  time  in  the  night.  I 
took  my  own  course,  procured  a  boat,  and  reached  our  house 
before  dark. 

My  first  object,  the  next  morning,  was  to  go  in  search  of 
your  brother ;  and  I  had  the  mortification  to  meet  him  again 
in  prison,  though  not  the  death  prison.  I  went  immediately 
to  my  old  friend,  the  governor  of  the  city,  who  now  was  raised 
to  the  rank  of  a  woon-gyee.  He  informed  me  that  Mr.  Jud- 
son was  to  be  sent  to  the  Burmese  camp,  to  act  as  translator 
and  interpreter ;  and  that  he  was  put  in  confinement  for  a 
short  time  only,  till  his  affairs  were  settled.  Early  the  fol- 
lowing morning  I  went  to  this  officer  again,  who  told  me  that 
Mr.  Judson  had  that  moment  received  twenty  ticals  from 
government,  with  orders  to  go  immediately  on  board  a  boat 
for  Maloun,  and  that  he  had  given  him  permission  to  stop  a 
few  moments  at  the  house,  it  being  on  his  way.  I  hastened 
back  to  the  house,  where  Mr.  Judson  soon  arrived,  but  was 
allowed  to  remain  only  a  short  time,  while  I  could  prepare 
food  and  clothins;  for  future  use.     He  was  crowded  into  a 


364  MEMOIR    OF    DR.   JUDSON. 

little  boat,  where  he  had  not  room  sufficient  to  lie  down,  and 
where  his  exposure  to  the  cold,  damp  nights  threw  him  into  a 
violent  fever,  which  had  nearly  ended  all  his  sufferings.  He 
arrived  at  Maloun  on  the  third  day,  where,  ill  as  he  was,  he 
was  obliged  to  enter  immediately  on  the  work  of  translating. 
He  remained  at  Maloun  six  weeks,  suffering  as  much  as  he 
had  at  any  time  in  prison,  excepting  he  was  not  in  irons,  nor 
exposed  to  the  insults  of  those  cruel  jailers. 

For  the  first  fortnight  after  his  departure,  my  anxiety  was 
less  than  it  had  been  at  any  time  previously  since  the  com- 
mencement of  our  difficulties.  I  knew  the  Burmese  officers 
at  the  camp  would  feel  the  value  of  Mr.  Judson's  services  too 
much  to  allow  their  using  any  measures  threatening  his  life. 
I  thought  his  situation,  also,  would  be  much  more  comfortable 
than  it  really  was  ;  hence  my  anxiety  was  less.  But  my  health, 
which  had  never  been  restored  since  that  violent  attack  at 
Oung-pen-la,  now  daily  declined,  till  I  was  seized  with  the 
spotted  fever,  with  all  its  attendant  horrors.  I  knew  the  na- 
ture of  the  fever  from  its  commencement ;  and,  from  the  shat- 
tered state  of  my  constitution,  together  with  the  want  of  med- 
ical attendants,  I  concluded  it  must  be  fatal.  The  day  I  was 
taken  with  the  fever,  a  Burmese  nurse  came  and  offered  her 
services  for  Maria.  This  circumstance  filled  me  with  grati- 
tude and  confidence  in  God  ;  for,  though  I  had  so  long  and  so 
constantly  made  efforts  to  obtain  a  person  of  this  description, 
I  had  never  been  able ;  when  at  the  very  time  I  most  needed 
one,  and  without  any  exertion,  a  voluntary  offer  was  made. 
My  fever  raged  violently,  and  without  any  intermission.  I 
began  to  think  of  settling  my  worldly  affairs,  and  of  commit- 
ting my  dear  little  Maria  to  the  care  of  a  Portuguese  woman, 
when  I  lost  my  reason,  and  was  insensible  to  all  around  me. 
At  this  dreadful  period.  Dr.  Price  was  released  from  prison, 
and  hearing  of  my  illness,  obtained  permission  to  come  and 
see  me.  He  has  since  told  me  that  my  situation  was  the  most 
distressing  he  had  ever  witnessed,  and  that  he  did  not  then 
think  I  should  survive  many  hours.  My  hair  was  shaved,  my 
head  and  feet  covered  with  bhsters,  and  Dr.  Price  ordered  the 


IMPRISONED    IN    AVA.  365 

Bengalee  servant  who  took  care  of  me  to  endeavor  to  per- 
suade me  to  take  a  little  nourishment,  which  I  had  obstinately 
refused  for  several  days.  One  of  the  first  things  I  recollect 
was  seeing  this  faithful  servant  standing  by  me,  trying  to  in- 
duce me  to  take  a  little  wine  and  water.  I  was,  in  fact,  so  far 
gone  that  the  Burmese  neighbors,  who  had  come  in  to  see  me 
expire,  said,  "  She  is  dead  ;  and  if  the  King  of  angels  should, 
come  in,  he  could  not  recover  her." 

The  fever,  I  afterwards  understood,  had  run  seventeen  days 
when  the  blisters  were  applied.  I  now  began  to  recover 
slowly,  but  it  was  more  than  a  month  after  this  before  I  had 
strength  to  stand.  While  in  this  weak,  debilitated  state,  the 
servant  who  had  followed  your  brother  to  the  Burmese  camp 
came  in,  and  informed  me  that  his  master  had  arrived,  and 
was  conducted  to  the  court  house  in  town.  I  sent  off  a  Bur- 
man  to  watch  the  movements  of  government,  and  to  ascertain, 
if  possible,  in  what  way  Mr.  Judson  was  to  be  disposed  of. 
He  soon  returned  with  the  sad  intelligence  that  he  saw  Mr. 
Judson  go  out  of  the  palace  yard,  accompanied  by  two  or 
three  Burmans,  who  conducted  him  to  one  of  the  prisons,  and 
that  it  was  reported  in  town  that  he  was  to  be  sent  back  to  the 
Oung-pen-la  prison.  I  was  too  weak  to  bear  ill  tidings  of  any 
kind ;  but  a  shock  so  dreadful  as  this  almost  annihilated  me. 
For  some  time  I  could  hardly  breathe,  but  at  last  gained  suf- 
ficient composure  to  despatch  Moung  Ing  to  our  friend,  the 
governor  of  the  north  gate,  and  begged  him  to  make  one  more 
effort  for  the  release  of  Mr.  Judson,  and  prevent  his  being 
sent  back  to  the  country  prison,  where  I  knew  he  must  suffer 
much,  as  I  could  not  follow.  Moung  Ing  then  went  in  search 
of  Mr.  Judson ;  and  it  was  nearly  dark  when  he  found  him, 
in  the  interior  of  an  obscure  prison.  I  had  sent  food  early  in 
the  afternoon ;  but  being  unable  to  find  him,  the  bearer  had  re- 
turned with  it,  which  added  another  pang  to  my  distresses,  as 
I  feared  he  was  already  sent  to  Oung-pen-la. 

If  I  ever  felt  the  value  and  efficacy  of  prayer,  I  did  at  this 
time.  I  could  not  rise  from  my  couch  ;  I  could  make  no  ef- 
forts to  secure  my  husband ;  I  could  only  plead  with  that 
31* 


366  MEMOJK    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

great  and  powerful  Being  who  has  said,  "  Call  upon  me  in 
the  day  of  trouble,  and  Iivillhear,  and  thou  shalt  glorify  me," 
and  who  made  me  at  this  time  feel  so  powerfully  this  promise 
that  I  became  quite  composed,  feeling  assured  that  my  prayers 
would  be  answered. 

AYhen  Mr.  Judson  was  sent  from  Maloun  to  Ava,  it  was 
within  five  minutes'  notice,  and  without  his  knowledge  of  the 
cause.  On  his  way  up  the  river,  he  accidentally  saw  the 
communication  made  to  government  respecting  him,  which 
was  simj)ly  this  :  "  We  have  no  further  use  for  Yoodthan ; 
we  therefore  return  him  to  the  golden  city."  On  arriving  at 
the  court  house,  there  happened  to  be  no  one  present  who  was 
acquainted  with  Mr.  Judson.  The  presiding  officer  inquired 
from  what  place  he  had  been  sent  to  Maloun.  He  was  an- 
swered, from  Oung-pen-la.  "  Let  him,  then,"  said  the  officer, 
"  be  returned  thither ; "  when  he  was  delivered  to  a  guard 
and  conducted  to  the  place  above  mentioned,  there  to  remain 
until  he  could  be  conveyed  to  Oung-pen-la.  In  the  mean  time, 
the  governor  of  the  north  gate  presented  a  petition  to  the  high 
court  of  the  empire,  offisred  himself  as  Mr.  Judson's  security, 
obtained  his  release,  and  took  him  to  his  house,  where  he 
treated  him  with  considerable  kindness,  and  to  which  I  was 
removed  as  soon  as  returning  health  would  allow. 

The  advance  of  the  English  army  towards  the  capital  at 
this  time  threw  the  whole  town  into  the  greatest  state  of 
alarm,  and  convinced  the  government  that  some  speedy  meas- 
ures must  be  taken  to  save  the  golden  city.  They  had  hith- 
erto rejected  all  the  overtures  of  Sir  Archibald  Campbell, 
imagining,  until  this  late  period,  that  they  could  in  some  way 
or  other  drive  the  English  from  the  country.  Mr.  Judson 
and  Dr.  Price  were  daily  called  to  the  palace  and  consulted ; 
in  fact,  nothing  was  done  without  their  approbation.  Two 
English  officers,  also,  who  had  lately  been  brought  to  Ava  as 
prisoners,  were  continually  consulted,  and  their  good  offices 
requested  in  endeavoring  to  persuade  the  British  general  to 
make  peace  on  easier  terms.  It  was  finally  concluded  that  Mr. 
Judson  and  one  of  the   officers  above  mentioned  should  be 


MESSENGERS    TO    THE    ENGLISH    CAMP.  367 

sent  immediately  to  the  English  camp,  in  order  to  negotiate. 
The  danger  attached  to  a  situation  so  responsible,  under  a 
government  so  fickle  as  the  Burmese,  induced  your  brother  to 
use  every  means  possible  to  prevent  his  being  sent.  Dr.  Price 
was  not  only  willing,  but  desirous  of  going  ;  this  circumstance 
Mr.  Judson  represented  to  the  members  of  government,  and 
begged  he  might  not  be  compelled  to  go,  as  Dr.  Price  could 
transact  the  business  equally  as  well  as  himself.  After  some 
hesitation  and  deliberation,  Dr.  Price  was  appointed  to  accom- 
pany Dr.  Sandford,  one  of  the  English  officers,  on  condition 
that  Mr.  Judson  would  stand  security  for  his  return,  while  the 
other  English  officer,  then  in  irons,  should  be  security  for 
Dr.  Sandford.  The  king  gave  them  a  hundred  ticals  each 
to  bear  their  expenses,  (twenty-five  of  which  Dr.  Sandford 
generously  sent  to  Mr.  Gouger,  still  a  prisoner  at  Oung-pen- 
la,)  boats,  men,  and  a  Burmese  officer  to  accompany  them, 
though  he  ventured  no  farther  than  the  Burman  camp.  With 
the  most  anxious  solicitude  the  court  waited  the  arrival  of  the 
messengers,  but  did  not  in  the  least  relax  in  their  exertions  to 
fortify  the  city.  Men  and  beasts  were  at  work  night  and  day, 
making  new  stockades  and  strengthening  old  ones,  and  what- 
ever buildings  were  in  their  way  were  immediately  torn  down. 
Our  house,  with  all  that  surrounded  it,  was  levelled  to  the 
ground,  and  our  beautiful  little  compound  turned  into  a  road 
and  a  place  for  the  erection  of  cannon.  All  articles  of  value 
were  conveyed  out  of  town,  and  safely  deposited  in  some  other 
place. 

At  length  the  boat  in  which  the  ambassadors  had  been  sent 
was  seen  approaching,  a  day  earlier  than  was  expected.  As 
it  advanced  towards  the  city,  the  banks  were  lined  by  thou- 
sands, anxiously  inquiring  their  success.  But  no  answer  was 
given  ;  the  government  must  first  hear  the  news.  The  palace 
gates  were  crowded,  the  officers  at  the  lut-d'hau  were  seated, 
when  Dr.  Price  made  the  following  communication  :  "  The 
general  and  commissioners  will  make  no  alteration  in  their 
terms,  except  the  hundred  lacks  [a  lack  is  a  hundred  thou- 
sand] of  rupees  may  be  paid  at  four  different  times  ;  the  first 


368  MEMOIR    OF    DK.    JUDSOJS". 

twenty-five  lacks  to  be  paid  witliin  twelve  days,  or  the  army 
■will  continue  their  march."  In  addition  to  this,  the  prisoners 
were  to  be  given  up  immediately.  The  general  had  commis- 
sioned Dr.  Price  to  demand  Mr.  Judson,  and  myself,  and  little 
Maria.  This  was  communicated  to  the  king,  who  replied, 
"  They  are  not  English ;  they  are  my  people,  and  shall  not 
go."  At  this  time  I  had  no  idea  that  we  should  ever  be  re- 
leased from  Ava.  The  government  had  learned  the  value  of 
your  brother's  services,  having  employed  him  the  last  three 
months  ;  and  we  both  concluded  they  would  never  consent  to 
our  departure.  The  foreigners  were  again  called  to  a  consul- 
tation, to  see  what  could  be  done.  Dr.  Price  and  Mr.  Judson 
told  them  plainly  that  the  English  would  never  make  peace 
on  any  other  terms  than  those  offered,  and  that  it  was  in  vain 
to  go  down  again  without  the  money.  It  "vvas  then  proposed 
that  a  third  part  of  the  first  sum  demanded  should  be  sent 
down  immediately.  Mr.  Judson  objected,  and  still  said  it 
would  be  useless.  Some  of  the  members  of  government  then 
intimated  that  it  was  probable  the  teachers  were  on  the  side 
of  the  English,  and  did  not  try  to  make  them  take  a  smaller 
sum  ;  and  also  threatened,  if  they  did  not  make  the  English 
comply,  they  and  their  families  should  suffer. 

In  this  interval,  the  fears  of  the  government  were  consid- 
erably allayed  by  the  offers  of  a  general,  by  name  Layar- 
thoo-yah,  who  desired  to  make  one  more  attempt  to  conquer 
the  English,  and  disperse  them.  He  assured  the  king  and 
government,  that  he  could  so  fortify  the  ancient  city  of  Pugan, 
as  to  make  it  impregnable,  and  that  he  would  there  defeat 
and  destroy  the  English.  His  offers  were  heard ;  he  marched 
to  Pugan  with  a  very  considerable  force,  and  made  strong  the 
fortifications.  But  the  English  took  the  city  with  perfect 
ease,  and  dispersed  the  Burmese  army ;  while  the  general  fled 
to  Ava,  and  had  the  presumption  to  appear  in  the  presence  of 
the  king,  and  demand  new  troops.  The  king,  being  enraged 
that  he  had  ever  listened  to  him  for  a  moment,  in  consequence 
of  which  the  negotiation  had  been  delayed,  the  English  gen- 
eral provoked,  and  the   troops  daily  advancing,  ordered  the 


PEACE,    AND    RELEASE    OF    THE    TRISONERS.  369 

general  to  be  immediately  executed.  The  poor  fellow  was 
soon  hurled  from  the  palace,  and  beat  all  the  way  to  the  court 
house,  when  he  was  stripped  of  his  rich  apparel,  bound  with 
cords,  and  made  to  kneel  and  bow  towards  the  palace.  He 
was  then  delivered  into  the  hands  of  the  executioners,  who, 
by  their  cruel  treatment,  put  an  end  to  his  existence  before 
they  reached  the  place  of  execution. 

The  king  caused  it  to  be  reported  that  this  general  was 
executed  in  consequence  of  disobeying  his  commands  "  not  to 
fight  the  English:' 

Dr.  Price  was  sent  off  the  same  night,  with  part  of  the 
prisoners,  and  with  instructions  to  persuade  the  general  to 
take  six  lacks  instead  of  twenty-five.  He  returned  in  two  or 
three  days,  with  the  appalling  intelligence  that  the  English 
general  was  very  angry,  refused  to  have  any  communication 
with  him,  and  was  now  within  a  few  days'  march  of  the  capital. 
The  queen  was  greatly  alarmed,  and  said  the  money  should 
be  raised  immediately,  if  the  English  would  only  stop  their 
march.  The  whole  palace  was  in  motion  ;  gold  and  silver 
vessels  were  melted  up  ;  the  king  and  queen  superintended  the 
weighing  of  a  part  of  it,  and  were  determined,  if  possible,  to 
save  their  city.  The  silver  was  ready  in  the  boats  by  the 
next  evening ;  but  they  had  so  little  confidence  in  the  Eng- 
lish, that,  after  all  their  alarm,  they  concluded  to  send  down  six 
lacks  only,  with  the  assurance  that,  if  the  English  would  stop 
where  they  then  were,  the  remainder  should  be  forthcoming 
immediately. 

The  government  now  did  not  even  ask  Mr.  Judson  the 
question  whether  he  would  go  or  not ;  but  some  of  the  officers 
took  him  by  the  arm,  as  he  was  walking  in  the  street,  and  told 
him  he  must  go  immediately  on  board  the  boat,  to  accompany 
two  Burmese  officers,  a  woon-gyee  and  woon-douk,  who  were 
going  down  to  make  peace.  Most  of  the  English  prisoners 
were  sent  at  the  same  time.  The  general  and  commissioners 
would  not  receive  the  six  lacks,  neither  would  they  stop  their 
march;  but  promised,  if  the  sum  complete  reached  them 
before  they  should  ai'rive  at  Ava,  they  would  make  peace. 


870  MEMOIR    OF    DR.   JUDSON. 

The  general  also  commissioned  Mr.  Judson  to  collect  the  re- 
maining foreigners,  of  whatever  country,  and  ask  the  question, 
before  the  Burmese  government,  Avhether  they  wished  to  go 
or  stay.  Those  who  expressed  a  wish  to  go  should  be  deliv- 
ered up  immediately,  or  peace  would  not  be  made. 

Mr.  Judson  reached  Ava  at  midnight,  had  all  the  foreigners 
called  the  next  morning,  and  the  question  asked.  Some  of  the 
members  of  government  said  to  him,  "  You  will  not  leave  us ; 
you  shall  become  a  great  man  if  you  will  remain."  He 
then  secured  himself  from  the  odium  of  saying  that  he  wished 
to  leave  the  service  of  his  majesty,  by  recurring  to  the  order 
of  Sir  Archibald,  that  whoever  wished  to  leave  Ava  should 
be  given  up,  and  that  I  had  expressed  a  wish  to  go,  so  that  he 
of  course  must  follow.  The  remaining  part  of  the  twenty-five 
lacks  was  soon  collected ;  the  prisoners  at  Oung-pen-la  were  all 
released,  and  either  sent  to  their  houses,  or  down  the  river  to 
the  English  ;  and  in  two  days  from  the  time  of  IMr.  Judson's 
return,  we  took  an  aifectionate  leave  of  the  good-natured 
officer  who  had  so  long  entertained  us  at  his  house,  and  who 
now  accompanied  us  to  the  water  side,  and  we  then  left  forever 
the  banks  of  Ava. 

It  was  on  a  cool,  moonlight  evening,  in  the  month  of 
March,  that  with  hearts  filled  with  gratitude  to  God,  and  over- 
flowing with  joy  at  our  prospects,  we  passed  down  the  Irra- 
wadi,  surrounded  by  six  or  eight  golden  boats,  and  accom- 
panied by  all  we  had  on  earth.  The  thought  that  we  had  still 
to  pass  the  Burman  camp  would  sometimes  occur  to  damp 
our  joy,  for  we  feared  that  some  obstacle  might  there  arise  to 
retard  our  progress.  Nor  were  we  mistaken  in  our  con- 
jectures. We  reached  the  camp  about  midnight,  where  we 
were  detained  two  hours  ;  the  woon-gyee  and  high  officers 
insisting  that  we  should  wait  at  the  camp,  while  Dr.  Price, 
who  did  not  return  to  Ava  with  your  brother,  but  remained  at 
the  camp,  should  go  on  with  the  money,  and  first  ascertain 
whether  peace  would  be  made.  The  Burmese  government 
still  entertained  the  idea  that,  as  soon  as  the  English  had 
received  the  money  and  prisoners,  they  would  continue  their 


OBLIGATIONS    TO    THE    BRITISH    COMMANDER.  371 

marcli,  and  yet  destroy  the  capital.  We  knew  not  but  that  some 
circumstance  might  occur  to  break  off  the  negotiations.  Mr. 
Judson  therefore  strenuously  insisted  that  he  would  not  re- 
main, but  go  on  immediately.  The  ofhcers  were  finally  pre- 
vailed on  to  consent,  hoping  much  from  Mr.  Judson's  assist- 
ance in  making  peace. 

We  now,  for  the  first  time  for  more  than  a  year  and  a  half, 
felt  that  we  were  free,  and  no  longer  subject  to  the  oppressive 
yoke  of  the  Burmese.  And  with  what  sensations  of  delight, 
on  the  next  morning,  did  I  behold  the  masts  of  the  steamboat, 
the  sure  presage  of  being  within  the  bounds  of  civilized  life ! 
As  soon  as  our  boat  reached  the  shore,  Brigadier  A.  and 
another  otlicer  came  on  board,  congratulated  us  on  our  arrival, 
and  invited  us  on  board  the  steamboat,  where  I  passed  the  re- 
mainder of  the  day  ;  while  your  brother  went  on  to  meet  the 
general,  who,  with  a  detachment  of  the  army,  had  encamped 
at  Yandabo,  a  few  miles  farther  down  the  river.  Mr.  Judson 
returned  in  the  evening,  with  an  invitation  from  Sir  Archibald 
to  come  immediately  to  his  quarters,  where  I  was  the  next 
morning  introduced,  and  received  with  the  greatest  kindness 
by  the  general,  who  had  a  tent  pitched  for  us  near  his  own, 
took  us  to  his  own  table,  and  treated  us  with  the  kindness  of  a 
father,  rather  than  as  strangers  of  another  country. 

We  feel  that  our  obligations  to  General  Campbell  can 
never  be  cancelled.  Our  final  release  from  Ava,  and  our  re- 
covering all  the  property  that  had  there  been  taken,  was  ow- 
ing entirely  to  his  efforts.  His  subsequent  hospitality,  and 
kmd  attention  to  the  accommodations  for  our  j^assage  to  Ran- 
goon, have  left  an  impression  on  our  minds,  which  can 
never  be  effaced.  We  daily  received  the  congratulation 
of  the  British  officers,  whose  conduct  towards  us  formed 
a  striking  contrast  to  that  of  the  Burmese.  I  presume  to  say 
that  no  persons  on  earth  were  ever  happier  than  we  were 
during  the  fortnight  we  passed  at  the  English  camp.  For 
several  days,  this  single  idea  wholly  occujiied  my  mmd  —  that 
we  were  out  of  the  power  of  the  Burmese  government,  and 
once  more  under  the  protection  of  the  English.     Our  feelings 


372  MEMOIR    OF   DR.   JUDSON. 

continually  dictated  expressions  like  this  :  What  shall  we 
render  to  the  Lord  for  all  his  henejits  towards  us  ? 

The  treaty  of  peace  was  soon  concluded,  signed  by  both 
parties,  and  a  termination  of  hostilities  publicly  declared. 
We  left  Yandabo,  after  a  fortnight's  residence,  and  safely 
reached  the  mission  house  in  Rangoon,  after  an  absence  of 
two  years  and  three  months. 

A  review  of  our  trip  to  and  adventures  in  Ava  often  ex- 
cites the  inquiry.  Why  were  we  permitted  to  go?  What 
good  has  been  eflFected  ?  Wliy  did  I  not  listen  to  the  advice 
of  friends  in  Bengal,  and  remain  there  till  the  war  was  con- 
cluded ?  But  all  that  we  can  say  is.  It  is  not  in  man  that 
walheth  to  direct  his  steps.  So  far  as  my  going  round  to  Ran- 
goon, at  the  time  I  did,  was  instrumental  in  bringing  those 
heavy  afflictions  upon  us,  I  can  only  state  that,  if  I  ever  acted 
from  a  sense  of  duty  in  my  life,  it  was  at  that  time  ;  for  my 
conscience  would  not  allow  me  any  peace,  when  I  thought  of 
sending  for  your  brother  to  come  to  Calcutta,  in  prospect  of 
the  approaching  war.  Our  society  at  home  have  lost  no  prop- 
erty in  consequence  of  our  difficulties ;  but  two  years  of  pre- 
cious time  have  been  lost  to  the  mission,  unless  some  future 
advantage  may  be  gained,  in  consequence  of  the  severe  disci- 
pline to  which  we  ourselves  have  been  subject.  We  are 
sometimes  induced  to  think  that  the  lesson  we  found  so  very 
hard  to  learn  will  have  a  beneficial  effect  through  our  lives, 
and  that  the  mission  may,  in  the  end,  be  advanced  rather  than 
retarded. 

We  should  have  had  no  hesitation  about  remaining  in  Ava 
if  no  j)art  of  the  Burmese  empire  had  been  ceded  to  the  British. 
But  as  it  was,  we  felt  it  would  be  an  unnecessary  exposure,  be- 
sides the  missionary  field  being  much  more  limited,  in  conse- 
quence of  intoleration.  We  now  consider  our  future  mission- 
ary prospects  as  bright  indeed  ;  and  our  only  anxiety  is,  to 
be  once  more  in  that  situation  where  our  time  will  be  exclu- 
sively devoted  to  the  instruction  of  the  heathen. 

In  a  concluding  paragraph,  dated  Amherst,  July  27, 
Mrs.  Judson  adds,  — 


riilBrXE    TO    MRS.    ANN    H.    JUDSON.  373 

From  the  date,  at  the  commencement  of  this  long  letter, 
you  s^,  my  dear  brother,  that  my  patience  has  continued  for 
two  months.  I  have  frequently  been  induced  to  throw  it 
aside  altogether ;  but  feeling  assured  that  you  and  my  other 
fiiends  are  expecting  something  of  this  kind,  I  am  induced  to 
send  it,  with  all  its  imperfections.  This  letter,  dreadful  as 
are  the  scenes  herein  described,  gives  you  but  a  faint  idea  of 
the  awful  reality.  The  anguish,  the  agony  of  mind,  resulting 
from  a  thousand  little  circumstances  impossible  to  be  delineated 
on  paper,  can  be  known  by  those  only  who  have  been  in  sim- 
ilar situations.  Pray  for  us,  my  dear  brother  and  sister,  that 
these  heavy  afflictions  may  not  be  in  vain,  but  may  be  blessed 
to  our  spiritual  good,  and  the  advancement  of  Christ's  cause 
among  the  heathen. 

At  the  close  of  this  long  and  melancholy  narrative, 
we  may  appropriately  introduce  the  following  tribute 
to  the  benevolence  and  talents  of  Mrs.  Judson,  written 
by  one  of  the  English  prisoners  who  were  confined 
at  Ava  with  Mr.  Judson.  It  was  published  in  a  Cal- 
cutta paper,  after  the  conclusion  of  the  war. 

Mrs.  Judson  was  the  author  of  those  eloquent  and  forcible 
appeals  to  the  government  which  prepared  them  by  degrees 
for  submission  to  terms  of  peace,  never  expected  by  any  who 
knew  the  hauteur  and  inflexible  pride  of  the  Burman  court. 

And  while  on  this  subject,  the  overflowings  of  grateful 
feelings,  on  behalf  of  myself  and  fellow-prisoners,  compel  me 
to  add  a  tribute  of  public  thanks  to  that  amiable  and  humane 
female,  who,  though  living  at  a  distance  of  two  miles  from  our 
prison,  without  any  means  of  conveyance,  and  very  feeble  in 
health,  forgot  her  own  comfort  and  infirmity,  and  almost  every 
day  visited  us,  sought  out  and  administered  to  our  wants,  and 
contributed  in  every  way  to  alleviate  our  misery. 

WhiLe  we  were  all  left  by  the  government  destitute  of  food, 
she,  with  unwearied  perseverance,  by  some  means  or  other, 
obtained  for  us  a  constant  supply. 

VOL.  T.  32 


374  MEMOIR    OF    DIl.    JLDSON. 

When  the  tattered  state  of  our  clothes  evinced  the  extrem- 
ity of  our  distress,  she  was  ever  ready  to  replenish  our  scanty 
wardrobe. 

When  the  unfeeling  avarice  of  our  keepers  confined  us  in- 
side, or  made  our  feet  fast  in  the  stocks,  she,  like  a  minister- 
ing angel,  never  ceased  her  applications  to  the  government, 
until  she  was  authorized  to  communicate  to  us  the  grateful 
news  of  our  enlargement,  or  of  a  respite  from  our  galling  op- 
pressions. 

Besides  all  this,  it  was  unquestionably  owing,  in  a  chief 
degree,  to  the  repeated  eloquence,  and  forcible  appeals  of 
Mrs.  Judson,  that  the  untutored  Burman  was  finally  made 
willing  to  secure  the  welfare  and  happiness  of  his  country,  by 
a  sincere  peace. 

Reminiscences  of  Conversations  with  Dr.  Judson. 

Mrs.  Judson,  in  her  letter  to  her  brother,  speaks  of  the  cord 
as  an  "  instrument  of  torture  "  —  used  not  merely  to  confine 
the  arms.  It  is  small  and  hard,  and  may  be  so  tied  as  to  cut 
through  the  flesh,  as  in  Mr.  Judson's  case  it  did  to  some  extent. 
It  is  fastened  around  the  two  arms,  at  some  distance  above  the 
elbow,  and  left  to  be  played  upon  at  the  pleasure  of  the 
executioner.  It  may  be  drawn  back  with  such  force  as  to 
suspend  respiration,  which  is  its  more  special  office.  Very 
often  a  shoulder  is  dislocated  ;  and  not  infrequently  the  blood 
gushes  from  the  nostrils  and  mouth,  and  the  poor  victim  drops 
dead  in  a  few  moments. 

Dr.  Price,  in  his  journal,  mentions  a  bamboo  pole,  on 
which,  with  more  truth  than  elegance,  he  represents  the 
prisoners  as  being  "strung."  It  was  a  substitute  for  the 
stocks,  all  of  which  had  been  already  appropriated,  and, 
as  it  proved,  a  most  torturing  one.  The  foreigners  were 
loaded  with  three  pairs  of  fetters  each,  which  confined  their 
feet  only  a  few  inches  apart.  The  bamboo  was  passed 
between  their  legs,  and  fastened  at  the  ends  ;  so  that  they 
were  all  obliged  to  lie  in  a  row  upon  the  floor,  without  a 
mattress,  or  even  so  much  as  the  wooden  block,  which  they 


RECOLLECTIONS    OF    TIIK    DEATH    PRISON.  375 

begged  might  be  granted  them  for  a  pillow.  They  were  nine 
in  number,  and  so  closely  crowded  together,  that  the  one  who 
occupied  the  end  of  the  pole  esteemed  himself  peculiarly 
fortunate.  One  leg  rested  on  the  upper  side  of  the  long 
bamboo,  and  with  all  its  weight  of  shackles  pressed  upon 
the  limb  below,  producing,  even  after  partial  numbness  had 
supervened,  almost  unendurable  agony. 

The  death  prison  was  constructed  of  boards,  and  was  rather 
stronger  than  a  common  Burman  dwelling  house,  though  but 
little  confidence  was  reposed  in  its  strength.  Hence  the  array 
of  stocks  and  shackles,  and  the  dreaded  surveillance  of  insult- 
ing keepers.  There  were  no  windows,  nor  other  means  of 
admitting  the  air,  except  by  such  crevices  as  always  exist  in  a 
simple  board  house,  and  only  one  small  outer  door.  The 
common  prison  was  crowded  with  occupants.  The  worst  of 
criminals  were  huddled  down  beside  the  highest  of  state 
officers  —  perhaps  the  very  judges  who  sat  upon  their  crime 
the  day  before  ;  for  an  autocrat,  possessed  of  limitless  and 
irresponsible  power,  thinks  it  a  small  thing  to  punish  even 
a  favorite  by  thrusting  him  temporarily  into  this  place  of 
degradation.  It  is  well  understood  that  all  who  are  cast  into 
the  death  prison  are  under  the  condemnation  of  death,  though 
they  may  yet  be  saved  by  the  clemency  of  the  sovereign. 

The  missionaries  were  imprisoned  in  the  month  of  June, 
and  though  the  rains,  which  are  later  and  much  lighter  at 
Ava  than  farther  dowm  the  country,  had  commenced,  their 
cooling  influence  was  insufficient  to  counteract  the  sickening^ 
sense  of  suffocation  to  which  the  poisonous  miasma  rising 
from  the  damp  earth  contributed  in  a  most  dangerous  degree. 
The  prison  was  built  on  the  ground,  and  so  the  consequences 
of  a  lack  of  ventilation  were  rendered  doubly  serious. 
Prisoners  were  continually  dying  of  disease,  as  well  as  by 
violent  treatment,  and  yet  the  place  was  always  full.  They 
came  from  the  palace  and  from  the  robber's  den  ;  from  the 
shop  of  the  handicraftsman,  whose  power  of  execution  had 
fallen  short  of  his  monarch's  conception  ;  and  from  the  more 
aspiring   roof    of    the  merchant,    sacrificed   to    his    reputed 


376  MEMOnt    OF    DK.    JUDSON. 

wealth.  Several  sepoys,  and  occasionally  English  soldiers, 
swelled  the  lists  of  the  miserable.  These  poor  creatures, 
having  no  regular  supply  of  food,  were  often  brought  to 
the  very  verge  of  starvation  ;  and  then,  on  some  worship 
day,  the  women  would  come,  as  a  religious  duty,  to  the 
prison,  with  rice  and  fruit ;  and  the  miserable  sufferers, 
maddened  by  starvation,  would  eat  and  die.  "  O,  I  dare 
not  tell  you,"  said  Mr.  Judson  to  me  one  day,  "half  the 
horrors  I  have  seen  and  felt.  They  haunt  me,  when  I  am  ill 
or  sad,  even  now,  and  the  simplest  relation  of  them  would  do 
no  good  to  either  of  our  dreams." 

The  keepers  of  the  prison  were  all  branded  criminals  ; 
some  wearing  the  name  of  their  crime  burned  into  the 
flesh  of  their  foreheads  or  breasts  ;  others  with  a  dark  ring 
upon  the  cheek,  or  about  the  eye  ;  and  others  still  with 
mutilated  noses,  blind  of  an  eye,  or  with  their  ears  quite  cut 
away.  They  are  called  "  children  of  the  prison,"  and  form 
a  distinct  class,  quite  out  of  the  way  of  reputable  people, 
intermarrying  only  among  themselves,  and  so  perpetuating 
vice,  while  they  are  shut,  both  by  their  sentence  and  the 
horror  with  which  they  are  regarded  by  all  classes,  without 
the  pale  of  virtue.  The  cruelty,  or  other  vicious  inclination 
which  led  to  the  perpetration  of  the  first  crime,  is  now  deep- 
ened and  rendered  indelible  by  constant  familiarity  with 
every  species  of  human  torture,  until  these  creatures  seem 
really  to  be  actuated  by  some  demoniac  spirit.  The  head 
jailer,  called  by  the  prisoners  the  tiger  cat,  and  branded  in 
the  breast  loo-that,  or  murderer,  was  one  of  the  most  hideous 
and  disgusting  of  his  fraternity.  He  affected  great  jocularity, 
and  was  facetious  even  in  the  commission  of  his  worst  cruel- 
ties, bringing  down  his  hammer  with  a  jest  when  fastening 
manacles,  putting  his  hated  arms  affectionately  around  the 
prisoners,  and  calling  them  his  beloved  children,  to  get  a 
better  opportunity  to  prick  or  pinch  them,  and  withal  study- 
ing torture  as  the  most  comical  of  arts. 

One  of  the  first  things  Mr.  Judson  inquired  after,  as  soon 
as    he  and   Mrs.   Judson  were  allowed  to  meet  and    speak 


RECOLLECTIONS    OF    THE    DEATH    PRISON.  377 

together  in  English,  was  the  manuscript  translation  of  the 
New  Testament.  Part  of  it  had  been  printed,  but  there  was 
a  large  portion,  together  with  important  emendations  of  the 
printed  part,  still  in  manuscript.  Mrs.  Judson  had  secreted 
it,  with  her  silver  and  a  few  other  articles  of  value,  in  the 
earth  under  the  house.  It  was  now  the  rainy  season,  and  if 
the  paper  remained  in  this  place  any  considerable  length  of 
time,  it  would  be  ruined  by  the  mould.  It  was  thought  unsafe 
to  allow  a  manuscript  of  this  kind  to  remain  in  the  house, 
from  which  every  article  was  subject  at  any  moment  to  be 
carried  away,  as,  once  examined,  it  would  certainly  be 
destroyed.  The  final  conclusion  was  to  sew  the  manuscript 
up  in  a  pillow,  so  mean  in  its  appearance,  and  so  hard  and 
uncomfortable  withal,  that  even  the  avarice  of  a  Burman 
would  not  covet  it,  while  Mr.  Judson  himself  should  undertake 
the  guardianship  of  the  treasure.  In  reply  to  a  remark  after- 
wards made  to  him  with  regard  to  it,  he  said,  "  When  people 
are  loaded  with  chains,  and  sleep  half  the  time  on  a  bare 
board,  their  senses  become  so  obtuse  that  they  do  not  know 
the  difference  between  a  hard  pillow  and  a  soft  one." 

During  the  first  seven  months  of  Mr.  Judson's  imprison- 
ment, there  was  but  little  change.  The  white  men  all  wore 
three  pairs  of  fetters ;  but  they  were  suffered  to  walk  about  the 
prison  yard,  as  well  as  they  could  with  their  ankles  only  a  few 
inches  apart,  and  always  followed  by  keepers.  They  were  from 
time  to  time  subjected  to  almost  innumerable  annoyances,  vexa- 
tions, and  extortions  ;  and  they  were  obliged  to  be  the  witnesses 
of  wanton  cruelties  which  they  could  not  prevent,  and  of  intense 
sufferings  which  they  could  not  alleviate.  For  the  most  of  the 
time,  through  Mrs.  Judson's  continual  exertions,  and  by  help 
of  occasional  presents,  they  were  allowed  to  spend  the  day  in 
the  open  shed  in  the  yard,  and  Mrs.  Judson  was  even  permit- 
ted to  build  a  little  bamboo  shelter  for  her  husband,  where  he 
could  be,  some  portion  of  the  time,  by  himself.  Mr.  Judson 
was  exceedingly  nice  in  his  personal  habits,  nice  even  to  a 
fault ;  and  this  herding  together,  even  if  he  had  been  permit- 
ted to  choose  his  associates,  would  have  been  exceedingly 
32* 


378  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    .TUDSON. 

unpleasant  to  him.  They  were  not  all,  belonging  as  they  did  to 
five  different  nations,  edifcated  in  his  notions  of  cleanliness, 
and  even  he  was  often,  from  necessity,  oflensive  to  himself. 
Sometimes  he  was  denied  the  use  of  water,  and  sometimes  the 
admission  of  clothing  was  forbidden  ;  and  the  act  of  dressing, 
with  the  ankles  made  fast  by  fetters,  proved  to  be  no  simple 
art.  With  all  his  efforts,  and  the  care  taken  by  his  wife  of  his 
wardrobe,  he  was  sometimes  in  a  very  forlorn  state.  His  food 
was  such  as  Mrs.  Judson  could  provide.  Sometimes  it  came 
regularly,  and  sometimes  they  went  very  hungry.  Sometimes, 
for  Aveeks  together,  they  had  no  food  but  rice,  savored  with 
ngapee  —  a  certain  preparation  of  fish,  not  always  palatable  to 
foreigners.  But  once,  when  a  term  of  unusual  quiet  gave  her 
time  for  the  softer  and  more  homely  class  of  loving  thoughts, 
Mrs.  Judson  made  a  great  effort  to  surprise  her  husband  with 
something  that  should  remind  him  of  home.  She  planned  and 
labored,  until,  by  the  aid  of  buffalo  beef  and  plantains,  she 
actually  concocted  a  mince  pie.  Unfortunately,  as  she  thought, 
she  could  not  go  in  person  to  the  prison  that  day ;  and  the  din- 
ner was  brought  by  smiling  Moung  Ing,  who  seemed  aware 
that  some  mystery  must  be  wrapped  up  in  that  peculiar  prep- 
aration of  meat  and  fruit,  though  he  had  never  seen  the  well- 
spread  boards  of  Plymouth  and  Bradford.  But  the  pretty  little 
artifice  only  added  another  i^ng  to  a  heart  whose  susceptibili- 
ties were  as  quick  and  deep,  as,  in  the  sight  of  the  world,  they 
were  silent.  When  his  wife  had  visited  him  in  prison,  and 
borne  taunts  and  insults  with  and  for  him,  they  could  be  brave 
together ;  when  she  had  stood  up  like  an  enchantress,  winning 
the  hearts  of  high  and  low,  making  savage  jailers,  and  scarcely 
less  savage  nobles,  weep;  or  moved,  protected  by  her  own  dig- 
nity and  sublimity  of  purpose,  like  a  queen  along  the  streets, 
his  heart  had  throbbed  with  proud  admiration ;  and  he  was 
almost  able  to  thank  God  for  the  trials  which  had  made  a 
character  so  intrinsically  noble  shine  forth  with  such  peculiar 
brightness.  But  in  this  simple,  homelike  act,  this  little  unpre- 
tending effusion  of  a  loving  heart,  there  was  something  so 
touching,  so  unhke  the  part  she  had  just  been  acting,  and  yet 


RECOLLECTIONS    OF    THE    DEATH    PRISON.  370 

SO  illustrative  of  what  she  really  Avas,  that  he  bowed  his  head 
upon  his  knees,  and  the  tears  flowed  down  to  the  chains  about 
his  ankles.  What  a  happy  man  he  might  have  been  had  this 
heavy  woe  been  spared  them  !  And  what  was  coming  next  ? 
Finally  the  scene  changed,  and  there  came  over  him  a  vision 
of  the  past.  He  saw  again  the  home  of  his  boyhood.  His 
stern,  strangely  revered  father,  his  gentle  mother,  his  rosy, 
curly-haired  sister,  and  pale  young  brother  were  gathered  for 
the  noonday  meal,  and  he  was  once  more  among  them.  And  so 
his  fancy  revelled  there.  Finally  he  lifted  his  head.  O,  the 
misery  that  surrounded  him  !  He  moved  his  feet,  and  the  rat- 
tling of  the  heavy  chains  was  as  a  death  knell.  He  thrust  the 
carefully  prepared  dinner  into  the  hand  of  his  associate,  and 
as  fast  as  his  fetters  would  permit,  hurried  to  his  own  lit- 
tle shed. 

Mr.  Judson  was  not  naturally  of  an  even  temperament. 
Hopeful  and  earnest  he  was,  beyond  most  men,  and  withal 
very  persevering ;  but  at  this  period  of  his  life,  and  up  to  a 
much  later  time,  he  was  subject  to  a  desponding  reaction,  from 
which  his  faith  in  God,  the  ruHng  principle  of  his  later  years, 
was  not  now  sutficiently  ripe  to  set  him  entirely  free.  His 
peculiar  mental  conformation  was  eminently  active ;  so  that  the 
passive  suffering  o^  his  prison  discipline  was  more  galling  than 
to  a  mind  differently  constituted.  So  long  as  he  could  contend 
with  difficulties,  he  was  appalled  by  nothing ;  but  whatever 
he  might  have  been  in  after  life,  he  was  at  this  time  better 
fitted  to  do  than  to  endure.  For  some  time  previous  to  the 
birth  of  poor  little  Maria,  he  had  been  filled  with  the  gloomiest 
forebodings  ;  and  not  without  cause.  His  wife,  from  the  pecu- 
liar customs  of  this  land  of  semi-civilization,  was  more  alone 
than  she  would  have  been  among  the  wild  Indian  women  of  an 
American  forest ;  and  he  could  do  nothing  for  her.  When  the 
dreaded  crisis  was  past,  and  a  pale,  puny  infant  of  twenty 
days  was  brought  to  his  prison,  no  person,  not  thoroughly 
conversant  with  the  secret  springs  of  feeling  which  made  his 
the  richest  heart  that  ever  beat  in  human  bosom,  would  be  at 
all  able  to  appreciate  the  scene.     His  first  child  slept  beneath 


380  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

the  waters  of  the  Bay  of  Bengal,  a  victim  to  Anglo-Indian  per- 
secution, a  baby-raartyr,  without  the  martyr's  conflict;  the 
second,  his  "  meek,  blue-eyed  Roger,"  had  his  bed  in  the 
jungle  graveyard  at  Rangoon  ;  and  here  came  the  third  little 
wan  stranger,  to  claim  the  first  parental  kiss  from  the  midst  of 
felon  chains. 

Mrs.  Judson  had  long  previous  to  this  adopted  the  Burmese 
style  of  dress.  Her  rich  Spanish  complexion  could  never  be 
mistaken  for  the  tawny  hue  of  the  native ;  and  her  figure,  of 
full  medium  height,  appeared  much  taller  and  more  command- 
ing in  a  costume  usually  worn  by  women  of  inferior  size. 
But  her  friend,  the  governor's  wife,  who  presented  her  with 
the  dress,  had  recommended  the  measure  as  a  concession 
which  would  be  sure  to  conciliate  the  people,  and  win  them  to 
a  kindlier  treatment  of  her.  l^ehold  her,  then  —  her  dark 
curls  carefully  straightened,  drawn  back  from  her  forehead, 
and  a  fragrant  cocoa  blossom,  drooping  like  a  white  plume 
from  the  knot  upon  the  crown ;  her  saffron  vest  thrown  open 
to  display  the  folds  of  crimson  beneath ;  and  a  rich  silken  skirt, 
wrapped  closely  about  her  fine  figure,  parting  at  the  ankle, 
and  sloping  back  upon  the  floor.  The  clothing  of  the  feet 
was  not  Burman,  for  the  native  sandal  could  not  be  worn 
except  upon  a  bare  foot.  Behold  her  standing  in  the  door- 
way, (for  she  was  never  permitted  to  enter  the  prison,)  her 
little  blue-eyed  blossom  wailing,  as  it  almost  always  did, 
upon  her  bosom,  and  the  chained  father  crawling  forth  to  the 
meeting ! 

The  following  verses,  of  which  the  writer  says,  "  They 
were  composed  in  my  mind  at  the  time,  and  afterwards  written 
down,"  commemorate  this  meeting  :  — 


Lines  addressed  to  an  Infant  Daughter,  twenty  days  old,  in  the  condemned 
Prison  at  Ava. 

Sleep,  darling  infant,  sleep, 

Hushed  on  thy  mother's  breast ; 
Let  no  rude  sound  of  clanking  chains 
Distvu'b  thy  balmy  rest. 


LINES    TO    HIS    INFANT    DALGHTER.  381 

Sleep,  darling  infant,  sleep  ; 
Blest  that  thou  canst  not  know 
The  pangs  that  rend  thy  parents'  hearts, 
The  keenness  of  theu'  woe. 


Sleep,  darling  infant,  sleep  ; 
May  Heaven  its  blessings  shed, 
In  rich  profusion,  soft  and  sweet, 
On  thine  unconscious  head  ! 

Why  ope  thy  little  eyes  ? 

What  would  my  darling  see  ? 
Thy  sorrowing  mother's  bending  form  ? 
Thy  father's  agony  ? 

Wouldst  view  this  drear  abode, 
Where  fettered  felons  lie, 
And  wonder  that  thy  father  here 
Should  as  a  felon  sigh  ? 

Wouldst  mark  the  dreadful  sights, 
Which  stoutest  hearts  appal  — 
The  stocks,  the  cord,  the  fatal  sword, 
The  torturing  iron  mall  ? 

No,  darling  infant,  no  ! 

Thou  seest  them  not  at  all ; 
Thou  only  mark'st  the  rays  of  Ught 
Which  flicker  on  the  wall. 

Thine  untaught  infant  eye 
Can  nothing  clearly  see ; 
Sweet  scenes  of  home  and  prison  scenes 
Are  all  alike  to  thee. 

Stretch,  then,  thy  httle  arms. 
And  roll  thy  vacant  eye. 
Reposing  on  thy  mother's  breast, 
In  soft  security. 

"WTiy  ope  thy  paly  lips  ? 

What  would  my  darling  say  ? 


382  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

"  My  dear  papa,  why  leave  us  thus  ? 
Why  thus  in  prison  stay  ? 

"  For  poor  mamma  and  I 
All  lonely  live  at  home, 
And  every  day  we  watch  and  wait, 
And  wish  papa  would  come  ? " 

No  ;  all  alike  to  thee 
Thy  mother's  grief  or  mirth ; 
Nor  know'st  thou  one  of  all  the  ills 
Wliich  mark  thy  mournful  birth. 

Thy  lips  one  art  alone. 
One  loving,  simple  grace. 
By  nature's  instinct  have  been  taught: 
Seek,  then,  thy  nestling-place  ! 

Spread  out  thy  little  hand ; 
Thy  mother's  bosom  press. 
And  thiis  return,  in  grateful  guise, 
Her  more  sincere  caress. 

Go,  darhng  infant,  go  ; 

Thine  hour  has  passed  away  ; 
The  jailer's  harsh,  discordant  voice 
Forbids  thy  longer  stay. 

God  grant  that  we  may  meet 
In  happier  times  than  this. 
And  with  thine  angel  mother  dear 
Enjoy  domestic  bliss. 

But  should  the  fearful  clouds. 
Which  Burmah's  sky  o'erspread, 
Conduct  the  threatened  vengeance  down, 
On  thy  poor  father's  head,  — 

'  Where  couldst  thou  shelter  find  ? 

O,  whither  wouldst  thou  stray  ? 
What  hand  woxild  guide  my  darling's  steps 

Along  then-  dangerous  way  ? 


PARAPHRASE    OF    THE    I.OHD's    PRAYER.  383 

There  is  a  God  on  high, 

The  glorious  King  of  kings  ; 
'Tis  he  to  whom  thy  mother  prays, 
Whose  love  she  sits  and  sings. 

That  glorious  God,  so  kind, 
Has  sent  his  Son  to  save 
Our  ruined  race  from  sin  and  death, 
And  raise  them  from  the  grave. 

And  to  that  gracious  God, 
My  darling  I  commend  ; 
Be  thou  the  helpless  orphan's  stay, 
Her  Father  and  her  Friend. 

Inspire  her  infant  heart 

The  Saviour's  love  to  know, 
And  guide  her  through  this  dreary  world, 
This  wilderness  of  woe. 

Thou  sleep' st  again,  my  lamb, 
Nor  heed'st  nor  song  nor  prayer : 
Go,  sleeping  in  thy  mother's  arms, 
Safe  in  a  mother's  care. 

And  when,  in  futiire  years. 

Thou  know'st  thy  father's  tongue, 
These  lines  will  show  thee  how  he  felt, 
How  o'er  his  babe  he  sung. 
To  Maria  Eliza  Biitterworth  Judson,  born  at  Ava,  January  26,  1825. 

The  following  versification  of  the  Lord's  Prayer 
was  composed  a  few  weeks  later.  It  illustrates  the 
nature  of  the  subjects  which  occupied  the  thoughts  of 
the  missionary  during  this  long-protracted  agony.  It 
is  said  by  the  author  to  be  comprised  in  fewer  words 
than  the  original  Greek,  and  in  two  more  only  than 
the  common  translation  :  — 

Our  Father  God,  who  art  in  heaven, 
All  hallowed  be  thy  name, 


384  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    .TUDSON. 

Thy  kingdom  come  ;  thy  -will  be  done, 
In  eartli  and  heaven  the  same. 

Give  us,  this  day,  our  daily  bread ; 

And,  as  we  those  forgive 
Who  sin  against  us,  so  may  we 

Forgiving  grace  receive. 

Into  temptation  lead  us  not ; 

From  evil  set  us  free ; 
The  kingdom,  power,  and  glory.  Lord, 

Ever  belong  to  thee. 
Prison,  Ava,  Marcli,  1825. 


The  foreigners  had  spent  about  seven  months  in  prison, 
when  suddenly  a  change  came.  One  day  a  band  of  men 
rushed  into  the  prison  yard,  and  while  some  seized  the  white 
prisoners,  and  added  two  more  pairs  of  fetters  to  the  three 
they  already  wore,  others  began  tearing  down  Mrs.  Judson's 
little  bamboo  room,  snatching  up  pillows  and  mattresses,  and 
whatever  other  articles  came  within  their  reach.  At  last  the 
prisoners,  after  having  half  the  clothing  torn  from  their  per- 
sons, were  thrust  into  the  common  prison,  and,  with  a  bam- 
boo between  their  legs,  again  stretched  upon  the  bare  floor. 
Here  were  more  than  a  hundred  miserable  wretches,  shut 
from  every  breath  of  air  except  such  as  could  find  its  way 
between  the  crevices  in  the  boards,  groanhig  with  various 
tortures,  and  rattling  their  chains,  as  they  groped  in  the  gray 
light,  and  writhed  and  twisted  themselves,  as  much  as  was  in 
their  power,  from  side  to  side,  in  the  vain  endeavor  to  obtain 
some  ease  by  change  of  position.  It  was  the  commencement 
of  the  hot  season,  and  the  heat  was  not  lessened  by  the  fevered 
breaths  of  that  crowd  of  sufferers,  nor  the  close  air  purified 
by  the  exhalations  which  arose  from  their  bodies.  Night 
came,  but  brought  with  it  no  rest.  A  whisper  had  passed 
around  the  prison,  whether  through  malice  or  accident,  that 
the  foreigners  would  be  led  out  to  execution  at  three  in  the 
night ;   and  the  effect  on  the  little  band  was  not  so  much  in 


RECOLLECTIONS    OF    THE    DEATH    PRISON.  385 

accordance  with  natural  temperament  as  the  transforming 
principle  of  faith.  Bold  men  were  cowards,  and  weak  men 
grew  strong.  At  first,  Mr.  Judson  felt  a  pang  of  regret  that 
he  was  to  go  at  last  without  saying  farewell  to  his  unsuspect- 
ing wife  and  child.  But  gradually  the  feeling  changed,  and 
he  would  not  have  had  it  different  if  he  could.  She  had  left 
him  in  comparative  comfort  that  day ;  she  would  come  the 
next,  and  find  him  beyond  her  care.  It  would  be  a  terrible 
shock  at  first ;  but  she  would  be  spared  much  anxious  suffer- 
ing, and  he  could  almost  fancy  that  she  would  soon  learn  to 
rejoice  that  he  was  safe  in  glory.  As  for  herself,  the  Bur- 
mans  had  always  treated  her  with  some  respect ;  she  seemed 
to  have  gained  immunity  from  personal  insult,  while  her  intre- 
pidity had  won  their  admiration  ;  and  he  did  not  believe  that 
even  the  rudest  of  them  would  dare  to  do  her  harm.  No ; 
fruitful  in  resources  as  she  had  proved  herself,  she  would  get 
an  appointment  to  carry  some  message  of  peace  to  the  Eng- 
lish, and  so  place  herself  under  their  protection.  It  would  be 
a  blessing  to  her  and  to  his  child,  if  he  was  removed  from 
them ;  and  he  thanked  God  that  his  time  was  so  near  at  hand. 
He  felt  thankful,  too,  that  the  execution  was  to  take  place  in 
the  night.  He  should  pass  his  own  door  on  the  way.  There 
he  might  breathe  his  silent  farewell,  wliile  she  was  spared  the 
parting  agony.  He  thought  of  Burmah,  too,  even  then.  The 
English  would  most  likely  be  conquerors ;  and  then  there 
would  be  nothing  to  hinder  the  propagation  of  Christianity. 
He  even  recollected  —  so  calm  and  dispassionate  w^ere  his 
thoughts  —  some  passages  in  his  translation  capable  of  a  bet- 
ter rendering ;  and  then  he  speculated  on  the  pillow  he  had 
lost  that  day,  weighing  the  probabilities  of  its  ever  falling  into 
his  wife's  hands,  so  that  the  manuscript  would  be  recovered. 
And  then  he  imagined  that  she  did  not  find  it,  and  went  off 
into  a  visionary  scene  of  its  being  brought  to  light  years  after- 
wards, which  he  smiled  at  when  he  gave  a  sketch  of  these 
emotions,  and  did  not  fully  describe.  At  length  the  fatal  hour 
drew  nigh.  They  had  no  means  of  ascertaining  it  precisely, 
but  they  knew  that  it  could  not  be  very  far  distant.  They 
VOL.  I.  33      . 


386  MEMOIR    OF    DR.   JUDSON. 

waited  with  increased  solemnity.  Then  they  prayed  together, 
Mr.  Judson's  voice  for  all  of  them,  and  then  he,  and  probably 
each  of  the  others,  prayed  separately.  And  still  they  waited, 
in  awful  expectancy.  The  hour  passed  by,  —  they  felt  it  must 
be  passed,  —  and  there  was  no  unusual  movement  in  the  prison. 
Still  they  expected  and  waited,  till  finally  there  woke  a  glim- 
mering of  hope,  a  possibility  that  they  had  been  deceived. 
And  so,  hoping,  and  doubting,  and  fearing,  they  lingered  on, 
till  the  opening  of  the  door  assured  them  of  what  they  had 
long  suspected.  It  was  morning.  Then  the  jailer  came ;  and, 
in  answer  to  their  questions,  chucked  them  mockingly  under 
the  chin,  and  told  them,  O  no  j  he  could  not  spare  his  beloved 
children  yet,  just  after  —  kicking  the  bamboo  as  he  spoke,  till 
all  the  chains  rattled,  and  the  fi.ve  rows  of  fetters  dashed 
together,  pinching  sharply  the  flesh  that  they  caught  between 
them  — just  after  he  had  taken  so  much  trouble  to  procure 
them  fitting  ornaments. 

After  Mr.  Judson  had  been  about  a  month  in  the  loathsome 
inner  prison,  he  was  attacked  by  a  slow  fever,  which  threat- 
ened to  destroy  his  life.  His  guardian  angel  was,  as  ever,  on 
the  alert ;  but  it  was  in  vain  that  she  entreated  permission  to 
rebuild  his  room  in  the  prison  yard.  About  this  time  the 
poor  sufferers  were  astonished  by  a  most  singular  accession  to 
their  numbers.  Something  like  a  year  previous  to  the  com- 
mencement of  the  war,  the  king  had  received  from  some  for- 
eigner a  present  of  a  lion.  The  noble  beast  had  been  a  par- 
ticular favorite  with  him,  and  an  object  of  great  interest  at 
court.  But  it  was  now  whispered  about,  and  with  mysterious 
meaning  in  the  whispers,  that  the  English  bore  a  lion  upon 
their  standard.  The  disgraceful  defeat  of  Bandoola,  his  alarm- 
ing final  fall,  and  the  utter  inefficiency  of  the  hardiest  Bur- 
man  troops  before  these  charmed  warriors,  were  matters  of 
grave  conference,  and  strange  glances  were  cast  towards  tlie 
king's  noble  pet ;  but  for  a  time  no  one  dared  to  speak.  The 
matter  was  first  broached  by  the  queen's  brother,  an  ignorant, 
brutal  fellow,  who  owed  his  elevation,  from  the  lot  of  a  com- 
mon fishmonger,  entirely  to  his  clever,  intriguing  sister's  power 


rp:collections  of  the  death  prison.  387 

over  the  kinj^.  He  was  positive  that  the  English  had  a 
demoniac  ally  in  the  palace,  in  the  shape  of  this  regal-looking 
beast,  which  had  entirely  won  the  heart  of  the  king.  The 
pakan  woon,  a  man  of  more  sense,  but,  like  all  Burmans,  su- 
perstitious, seconded  his  opinions ;  and  other  counsellors,  now 
that  they  durst  speak,  came  in  with  floods  of  argument  and 
testimony.  The  king  repelled  the  idea  of  any  connection  be- 
tween his  favorite  and  the  enemy  as  absurd  in  the  extreme, 
but  at  last  consented  to  the  animal's  being  sent  to  the  death 
prison,  though  he  expressly  stipulated  that  it  should  not  be 
slain  without  his  order.  The  queen's  brother,  however,  gave 
secret  directions  to  the  keepers  not  to  furnish  the  animal  with 
food ;  and  so  merciless  was  he  well  known  to  be  in  the  execu- 
tion of  his  vengeance,  that  they  dared  not  disobey  him,  even 
to  jDlease  the  king.  The  cage,  all  newly  ironed  and  barricaded, 
as  though  some  unusual  resistance  was  expected,  was  placed 
in  the  prison  yard,  close  against  the  principal  building.  And 
now  commenced  a  new  and  fearful  scene  of  misery.  The  un- 
happy prisoners  had  seen  men  starved,  and  beaten,  and  smoth- 
ered, and  strangled  to  death,  then  dragged  by  the  feet  from  the 
door,  and  thrust,like  dogs,  into  some  shallow  pit,  or  left  for  wild 
dogs  to  devour  ;  and  they  thought  they  had  gained  a  fearful 
familiarity  with  every  species  of  wretchedness.  But  there  was 
something  almost  supernatural  in  this  new  horror  —  a  grad- 
ually starving  lion.  Day  after  day,  the  noble  beast  writhed 
in  the  pangs  of  hunger,  parched  with  thirst,  and  bruised  and 
bleediiig  with  his  fearful  struggles,  while  his  roarings  seemed 
to  shake  the  prison  to  its  foundations,  and  sent  a  thrill  of  in- 
describable terror  to  the  hearts  of  the  occupants.  The  jailer 
said  it  was  the  British  lion  ineffectually  struggling  against  the 
conquering  Burmans  ;  though  even  his  facetious  features  were 
somewhat  elongated  by  superstitious  fears.  Sometimes  a  com- 
passionate woman  would  steal  to  the  cage  after  dark,  and 
thrust  a  morsel  of  food  between  the  bars ;  but  it  was  neces- 
sarily a  trifle  to  the  powerful  beast,  and  served  only  to  in- 
crease his  ravings.  At  other  times  one  of  the  keepers  would 
throw  pails  of  water  over  him,  which  would  be  greeted  with 


388  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

almost  human  shrieks  of  pleasure,  though  it  only  served  to 
lengthen  for  a  little  the  terrible  term  of  suffering.  At  last 
the  scene  was  over.  The  skeleton  of  the  poor  beast  was 
dragged  from  its  cage,  and  buried  with  more  care  than 
many  a  poor  human  skeleton  had  been  before. 

The  next  time  Mrs.  Judson  came  to  the  prison  door,  and 
her  husband  crawled  to  meet  her  —  crawled  with  the  upper 
part  of  his  body,  having  his  feet  still  attached  to  the  moveless 
bamboo  —  he  had  a  new  plan  to  broach.  He  told  her  of  the 
empty  lion's  cage  —  what  a  comfortable  retreat  it  might  be 
made  for  him,  while  the  fever  lasted,  and  begged  her  interces- 
sion with  the  governor  ;  for  he  had  entreated  the  comic  jailer 
in  vain.  The  "  cat  "  refused  to  listen  for  a  moment  to  such  an 
insult  to  royalty.  Mrs.  Judson's  application  was  successful ; 
and  with  feelings  of  deep  gratitude  to  God  for  such  a  mercy, 
the  sick  man  was  removed  from  his  loathsome  quarters  to  the 
better  accommodations  of  the  lion's  cage. 

I  ought  to  have  stated  before  that  the  keeper,  to  whose 
share  Mr.  Judson's  old  pillow  fell  on  the  day  they  were  so 
unceremoniously  thrust  into  the  inner  prison,  had  afterwards 
exchanged  it  for  a  better  one,  wondering,  no  doubt,  at  the  odd 
taste  of  the  white  man.  When  he  was  again  robbed  of  his 
clothes  and  bedding,  on  the  day  he  was  driven  away  to  Oung- 
pen-la,  one  of  the  ruffians  deliberately  untied  the  mat  which 
was  used  as  a  cover  to  the  precious  pillow,  and  threw  the 
apparently  worthless  roll  of  hard  cotton  away.  Some  hours 
after,  Moung  Ing,  stumbling  upon  this  one  relic  of  the  van- 
ished prisoners,  carried  it  to  the  house  as  a  token  ;  and,  sev- 
eral months  from  that  time,  the  manuscript  which  now  makes 
a  part  of  the  Burmese  Bible  was  found  within,  uninjured. 

It  will  be  recollected  that  Mr.  Judson,  at  the  time  of  his 
removal  to  Oung-pen-la,  was  very  much  reduced  by  fever, 
and  that  this  was  the  hottest  season  of  the  year.  Having  his 
wife  as  a  link  between  himself  and  the  humanity  which  could 
not  well  find  existence  in  such  a  den,  he  had  avoided  some  of 
the  careless  habits  from  which  his  fellow-prisoners  had  nothing 
without  to  preserve  them,  and  consequently  he  was  exposed 


RECOLLECTIONS    OF    OUNG-PEN-LA.  389 

to  greater  suffering  in  that  bloody,  burning  march.  He  had 
always  kept  his  person  covered,  so  that,  in  a  very  short  time, 
his  shoulders  were  blistered  by  the  heat  of  the  sun.  His 
companions  had  long  ago  thrown  aside  shoes  and  stockings 
as  a  useless  encumbrance  ;  but  he  had  never  parted  from  his 
till  that  morning,  when  they  were  torn  away.  The  terrible 
result  I  have  no  heart  to  tell.  He  carried  the  marks,  as  well 
as  those  of  the  shackles  on  the  ankles,  to  the  last.  He  used 
sometimes  to  speak  to  me  of  the  time  when  he  was  occasion- 
ally permitted  to  come  from  the  prison  to  minister  to  his  sick 
wife,  and  when  he  carried  poor  little  wailing  Maria  from 
door  to  door,  still  with  but  a  few  inches  of  chain  between  his 
shackled  feet,  a  beggar  at  the  breasts  of  pitying  mothers. 

They  remained  at  Oung-pen-la  six  months,  when  Mr.  Jud- 
son  was,  for  the  first  time,  released  from  his  irons,  to  be  em- 
ployed as  translator  and  interpreter  to  the  Burmans.  From 
the  first,  he  had  been  particularly  careful  not  to  take  any  part 
in  political  affairs  ;  for,  however  the  war  might  end,  he  did 
not  wish  the  Burmans  to  receive  an  impression  that  he  was 
in  the  interests  of  the  English.  He  felt  that  it  would  be 
wrong  to  endanger  his  influence  as  a  religious  teacher  by 
taking  any  step  which  w^ould  be  likely  to  render  him  obnox- 
ious even  to  a  conquered  people.  But  now  he  had  no  choice. 
His  own  wishes  in  the  matter  were  not  consulted,  any  more 
than  they  had  been  when  he  was  first  thrown  into  prison. 
He  was  probably  selected  for  the  office  because  there  was  no 
one  wiio  could  be  better  trusted,  although  it  was  evident  that 
not  the  slightest  confidence  was  reposed  in  him.  He  was 
carried  to  Ava  under  guard,  kept  in  prison  two  days,  and 
then,  without  being  permitted  to  visit  his  own  house  but  a 
few  moments,  was  guarded  like  a  prisoner  to  the  boat.  Mrs. 
Judson  had  hastily  prepared  a  few  such  articles  as  she  thought 
necessary  to  his  comfort ;  but  either  through  the  malice,  or 
cupidity,  or  carelessness  of  his  keepers,  nothing  but  his  mat- 
tress, pillow,  and  one  blanket  could  be  found.  The  boat  was 
very  small,  without  a  cover,  and  so  crowded  that  he  had  not 
room  to  lie  down.  He  remained  here  three  days,  exposed  to 
33* 


390  IMKMOIK    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

the  scorching  sun  by  day,  and  the  heavy  November  dews  by 
night,  with  no  sustenance  but  a  bag  of  refuse  rice,  broken 
and  mildewed,  for  which  he  was  expected  to  evince  the  high- 
est gratitude.  When  he  arrived  at  Maloun,  he  was  so  ill  as 
to  be  almost  helpless.  The  banks  of  the  Irrawadi,  at  Ma- 
loun, as  at  Ava,  are  bordered  for  rods  with  beds  of  white, 
glittering  sand,  which  assumes,  in  the  sunlight,  an  intense 
metallic  glare,  and  reflects  such  heat  as  might  come  from  a 
burning  furnace.  On  this  sand,  half  way  between  the  river 
and  the  camp,  a  small  bamboo  hovel  had  been  erected  for  the 
reception  of  the  still  carefully  watched  and  guarded  trans- 
lator. There  was  no  aperture  for  the  admittance  of  air,  and 
he  could  not  roll  up  the  matting  which  composed  the  sides  of 
his  little  shelter  without  admitting  that  intolerable  white  glit- 
ter ;  while  the  heat  reflected  from  the  burning  sand  penetrated 
the  fragile  bamboo  braids,  and  aided  in  a  more  alarming 
development  of  the  fever  contracted  in  his  passage  down  the 
river.  It  was  in  vain  that  he  represented  his  condition  to  the 
officers  who  came  to  summon  him  to  the  presence  of  the 
Burman  general.  They  chose  to  consider  him  stubborn,  and 
told  him  that  means  would  be  used  to  make  him  obedient  to 
their  master's  call,  and  make  him  work,  too,  in  spite  of  his 
pretences.  But  when  they  found  that  he  really  could  not 
move,  they  brought  papers  to  his  floorless  hovel,  and  insisted 
on  an  explanation  ;  while  he  writhed  beneath  the  torture,  and 
wished  himself  back  to  Ava  in  his  chains,  or  that  the  fever 
which  was  searing  his  brain  would  only  make  him  quite  mad. 
The  last  wish  was  mercifully  granted  ;  for  he  finally  became 
unconscious  of  every  thing,  except  a  coming  and  going  of 
sandalled  feet,  the  solemn  entrance  of  a  shaven  crown  and 
yellow  robe,  and  a  very  indistinct  impression  that  he  was 
being  conveyed  from  the  prison  at  Oung-pen-la,  to  be  burned 
alive.  When  his  consciousness  returned,  he  was  lying  alone 
in  a  little  room  made  by  suspending  a  mat  from  the  projecting 
eaves  of  a  cook  house,  whither  he  had  been  removed  less, 
probably,  from  compassion  than  selfish  interest.  With  the 
cessation  of  intense  physical  suffering,  even  before  strength 


RECOLLECTIONS  OF  THE  BURMESE  CAMP.      391 

had  begun  to  return,  there  came  a  feeling  of  intellectual  vigor 
and  activity  characteristic  of  his  nature ;  and  long  before 
even  his  persecutors  thought  him  fit  for  labor,  he  had  been 
busy  in  arranging  his  plans  for  the  future.  His  thorough 
appreciation  of  the  Burmese  character  made  it  very  easy  to 
see  the  mortal  terror  that  the  military  leaders  at  Maloun 
were  in ;  and  he  resolved  by  degrees  to  accustom  their 
thoughts  to  such  concessions  as  he  knew  they  would  soon  be 
called  on  to  make.  The  native  mind,  treacherous  and  sus- 
picious in  the  main,  has  yet  a  fine  vein  of  truth  and  honesty 
running  through  it ;  and  he  believed  that  they  would  be  able 
in  time  to  distinguish  him,  true  fi'iend  as  he  really  was,  from 
the  designing  agent  of  the  enemy,  which  they  supposed  him 
to  be. 

In  the  mean  time,  papers  were  occasionally  brought  to  his 
bed,  for  advice  or  explanation ;  and  so  he  had  time  to  win  a 
large  share  of  confidence  before  he  was  able  to  enter  fully 
upon  the  duties  of  a  translator.  These  duties,  with  those  of 
interpreter  and  adviser,  he  soon  found  to  be  sufficiently  ardu- 
ous ;  for  the  suspicious  Burmans  obstinately  withheld  all  con- 
fidence in  the  integrity  of  their  conquerors,  and,  moreover, 
invested  every  newspaper  paragraph  from  Calcutta  with  the 
dignity  of  a  state  document.  It  was  a  difficult  task  to  set 
forth  to  unaccustomed  ears  and  hearts  those  high  principles  of 
honor  which  actuate  civilized  nations ;  and  the  attempt  usu- 
ally won  more  admiration  for  the  speaker  than  confidence  in 
the  truth  of  his  subject.  He  was  often  interrupted  by  such 
remarks  as,  "  That  is  noble,"  "  That  is  as  it  should  be  ; "  but 
the  exclamation  would  be  immediately  followed  by  an  incred- 
ulous shake  of  the  head,  and,  "  But  the  teacher  dreams  :  he 
has  a.  celestial  spirit,  and  so  he  thinks  himself  in  the  land  of 
the  Celestials."  One  definite  object  he  had  in  view  was,  in 
his  estimation,  more  diflicult  than  any  other.  He  had  no 
doubt  that  the  English  would  retain,  if  not  the  whole  lower 
country,  at  least  the  port  of  Rangoon,  as,  indeed,  for  the  good 
of  both  nations,  they  ought  to  have  done ;  and  he  labored  to 
prepare  the  way  for  this  mortifying  loss  of  territory. 


392  MEMOUl    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

In  the  mean  time,  he  was  far  from  being  overwhelmed  by 
physical  comforts.  His  allowance  was  only  twenty  ticals,  and 
this,  with  the  utmost  economy,  was  exhausted  in  a  month.  He 
had  long  since  become  accustomed  to  the  Burmese  style  of 
coftkery ;  but  his  recent  illness  rendered  the  crude  vegetable 
diet,  with  its  pungent  acids  and  spices,  more  than  usually 
unsuited  to  him.  The  nights,  too,  were  very  cold ;  and  the 
heavy  fog,  which  rested  on  the  river  till  nine  in  the  morning, 
seemed,  under  cover  of  the  darkness,  to  assume  the  chilliness 
of  ice.  At  last  he  was  driven  to  the  necessity  of  begging  a 
blanket.  He  was  presented,  as  a  special  mark  of  esteem,  — 
because,  as  he  was  assured,  it  had  been  ascertained  that  he 
was  a  true  friend  to  Burmah,  —  with  a  thick  cotton  rug,  about 
large  enough  to  cover  a  child  of  six  years.  Taking  some 
bamboo  twigs  for  thread,  and  a  penknife  for  a  needle,  he 
stitched  his  new  acquisition  to  the  centre  of  his  blanket,  and 
so,  by  dint  of  frequent  shiftings  from  side  to  side,  alternate 
drawings  up  of  the  feet,  and  crouchings  of  the  shoulders,  and 
other  little  ingenious  contrivances  for  lessening  his  bulk,  he  man- 
aged to  keep  half  of  his  person  at  a  time  in  a  state  of  tolerable 
warmth.  Here  he  remained  about  six  weeks,  when,  in  con- 
sequence of  the  advance  of  the  English  from  Prome,  he  was 
hurriedly  sent  back  to  Ava.  It  was  late  in  the  night  when  he 
arrived,  and  he  was  taken  through  the  streets  directly  past 
his  own  door.  A  feeble  light  glimmered  within,  assuring  him 
that  it  was  not  altogether  deserted ;  but  yet  what  might  not 
have  occurred  in  those  six  weeks !  He  entreated  permission 
to  enter  but  for  five  minutes ;  he  threatened,  he  bribed,  he 
appealed  to  their  humanity,  for  he  knew  that  even  they,  hard 
as ,  they  seemed,  must  have  humanity  somew^here ;  but  all 
Mathout  success.  His  conductors,  with  some  show  of  feeling, 
assured  him  that  they  had  orders  to  take  him  directly  to  the 
court  house,  and  that  they  dared  not  disobey.  He  crouched 
down  in  an  outbuilding  until  morning,  when,  after  a  slight 
"examination,  he  was  placed  under  guard  in  an  out-of-the-way 
shed,  which  served  as  a  temporary  prison.  At  night  of  the 
same  day,  IMoung  Ing  found  him  in  this  obscure  place,  where 


RECOLLKCTIONS  OF  HIS  RETURN  TO  AVA.      393 

he  had  been  all  day  without  food.  While  conversing  with  the 
faithful  Burman,  Mr.  Judson  once  or  twice  fancied  there  was 
something  in  his  words  or  manner,  or  perhaps  both,  a  little 
puzzling ;  but  the  impression  was  only  momentary,  and  the 
very  sight  of  this  messenger  from  his  wife  relieved  him  of  a 
burden  of  apprehension.  He  immediately  despatched  Moung 
Ing  to  the  friendly  governor,  for  aid  in  his  new  difficulties, 
instructing  him  carefully  as  to  his  words  and  behavior,  and, 
in  the  joy  of  his  heart,  bade  him  tell  the  tsayah-ga-dau  to 
keep  up  courage  one  day  more  ;  it  was  almost  certain  he 
should  be  with  her  on  the  next.  As  soon  as  the  messenger 
was  gone,  Mr.  Judson's  thoughts  immediately  recurred  to  the 
singularity  of  his  behavior,  scarcely  observable  at  the  time, 
but  now  assuming  much  importance.  His  wife  was  doubtless 
well,  though  Moung  Ing  had  certainly  not  been  very  explicit 
when  inquired  of;  she  7nust  be  well,  for  had  she  not  sent  sev- 
eral messages,  and  herself  suggested  the  application  to  the 
governor?  The  child,  too,  was  well;  he  had  said  that  unhes- 
itatingly. Why  had  he  hesitated  in  the  other  case  ?  Could 
it  be,  could  it  really  be,  that  any  thing  serious  had  befallen 
her,  and  they  had  concealed  it  from  him  ?  But  no ;  those 
messages  !  He  remembered,  however,  (it  all  came  to  him  too 
clearly  now,)  how  ostentatiously  the  good-natured  Burman 
had  paraded  one  of  those  messages  whenever  he  asked  a 
question  ;  and  yet,  think  as  he  would,  they  all  resolved  them- 
selves into  two  —  she  longed  to  see  him,  and  she  lecommended 
an  application  to  the  governor.  The  messenger  had  certainly 
behaved  strangely,  and  he  had  been  strangely  blinded.  These 
two  simple  phrases  had  been  repeated  so  often,  and  in  such 
variety  of  style,  that  they  had  been  made  to  appear  a  dozen, 
and  to  contain  a  world  of  meaning;  and  for  the  time  he  was 
fully  satisfied.  "  She  must  be  living,"  he  repeated  to  himself; 
"  there  is  ample  proof  of  that."  "  She  must  have  been  living," 
answered  a  withering  doubt  within,  "  when  she  gave  the 
directions  to  Moung  Ing."  After  that  one  thought,  he  had  no 
disposition  to  sleep.  The  tedious  night  at  lergth  dragged 
itself  away ;  and,  though  the  governor  sent  for  hij  n  as  early  as 


394  ME.AIOIK    OF    DR.    JUDSOX. 

could  reasonably  be  expected  in  the  morning,  a  strange,  vague 
apprehension  seemed  to  concentrate  whole  ages  in  those  few 
earlj  hours.  The  kind  old  man  had  become  his  security  with 
the  government,  and  set  him  free.  With  a  step  more  fleet 
than  for  the  last  two  years  he  had  practised,  and  in  spite  of 
the  maimed  ankles,  which  sometimes  almost  refused  their 
office,  he  hurried  along  the  street  to  his  beloved  hDme.  The 
door  stood  invitingly  open,  and,  witliout  having  been  seen  by 
any  one,  he  entered.  The  first  object  which  met  his  eye  was 
a  fat,  half-naked  Burman  woman,  squatting  in  the  ashes  beside 
a  pan  of  coals,  and  holding  on  her  knees  a  wan  baby,  so  be- 
grimed with  dirt  that  it  did  not  occur  to  the  father  it  could  be 
his  own.  He  gave  but  one  hasty  look,  and  hurried  to  the  next 
room.  Across  the  foot  of  the  bed,  as  though  she  had  fallen 
there,  lay  a  human  object,  that,  at  the  first  glance,  was  scarcely 
more  recognizable  than  his  child.  The  face  was  of  a  ghastly 
paleness,  the  features  sharp,  and  the  whole  form  shrunken 
almost  to  the  last  degree  of  emaciation.  The  glossy  black 
curls  had  all  been  shorn  from  the  finely-shaped  head,  which 
was  now  covered  by  a  close-fitting  cotton  cap,  of  the  coarsest 
and  —  unlike  any  thing  usually  coming  in  contact  with  that 
head  —  not  the  cleanest  kind.  The  whole  room  presented 
an  appearance  of  the  very  extreme  of  wretchedness,  more  har- 
rowing to  the  feelings  than  can  be  told.  There  lay  the  devoted 
wife,  who  hiitl  followed  him  so  unweariedly  from  prison  to 
prison,  ever  alleviating  his  distresses,  without  even  common 
hireling  attendance.  He  knew,  by  the  very  arrangement  of 
the  room,  and  by  the  expression  of  sheer  animality  on  the  face 
of  the  woman  who  held  his  child,  that  the  Bengalee  cook  had 
been  her  only  nurse.  The  wearied  sleeper  was  awakened  by 
a  breath  that  came  too  near  her  cheek.  Perhaps  a  falling 
tear  might  have  been  added  ;  for,  steady  as  were  those  eyes  in 
difficulties,  dauntless  in  dangers,  and  stern  when  conscience 
frowned,  they  were  well  used  to  tender  tears. 

Of  Mr.  Judson's  employment  by  the  government  I  know 
but  little  m  ore  than  Mrs.  Judson  has  told.  He  was  not  in- 
clined to  sp<  ak  boastingly ;  his  fault  was  rather  in  the  opposite 


REMINISCENCES    OF    THE    BRITISH    CAMP.  395 

extreme ;  and  yet,  when  he  said  any  thing,  it  was  always  evi- 
dent that  he  was  an  important  agent.  He  kept  clear  from 
every  thing  of  the  sort  as  long  as  possible,  for  the  reason  before 
mentioned  —  he  did  not  wisli  to  implicate  himself  with  the 
suspicious  Burmese  as  a  friend  of  their  enemies,  lest  it  might 
detract  from  his  influence  as  a.  religious  teacher.  He  emphat- 
ically wished  "  to  know  nothing  among  them  save  Jesus 
Christ  and  him  crucified."  As  soon  as  he  did  use  his  influ- 
ence, however,  it  was  of  weight.  His  very  reluctance  in- 
creased his  importance,  and  his  deep  insight  into  character 
generally,  and  especially  that  of  the  Burmese,  led  him  usually 
to  touch  the  right  key.  One  of  the  British  officers  of  whom 
Mrs.  Judson  speaks,  when  writing  of  these  things  afterwards, 
mentions  Mr.  Judson  as  "  possessed  of  a  quick,  chivalrous 
sense  of  honor,  which  made  him  a  noble  representative  of  the 
English  character,  and  which  could  not  fail  of  impressing  even 
the  rude  barbarians  among  whom  he  was  thrown." 

One  evening  several  persons  at  our  house  were  repeating 
anecdotes  of  what  different  men  in  different  ages  had  regarded 
as  the  highest  type  of  sensuous  enjoyment ;  that  is,  enjoyment 
derived  from  outward  circumstances.  "  Pooh  ! "  said  Mr. 
Judson ;  "  these  men  were  not  qualified  to  judge.  I  know  of 
a  much  higher  pleasure  than  that.  What  do  you  think  of 
floating  down  the  Irrawadi,  on  a  cool,  moonliiiht  evening, 
with  your  wife  by  your  side,  and  your  baby  in  your  arms, 
free  —  all  free  ?  But  you  cannot  understand  it,  either  ;  it 
needs  a  twenty-one  months'  qualification  ;  and  I  can  never 
regret  my  twenty-one  months  of  misery,  when  I  recall  that 
one  delicious  thrill.  I  think  I  have  had  a  better  appreciation 
of  what  heaven  may  be  ever  since."  And  so,  I  have  no 
doubt,  he  had. 

The  reception  of  a  lady  was  an  incident  in  the  Enghsh 
camp  ;  and  Mrs.  Judson's  fame  had  gone  before  her.  No  one 
better  than  a  true-born  Englishman  can  discern  precisely  the 
measure  of  attention  grateful  to  a  woman  in  her  situation ; 
and  there  were  innumerable  minute  touches  in  General 
Campbell's  conduct  which  fiixed  her  gratitude,  and  more  still 


396  MEMOIR    OF    DK.    JLD60N. 

that  of  her  husband  on  her  account.  It  was  not  that  his  son 
M^as  sent  with  the  staff  officers  who  came  to  escort  her  from 
the  steamer  ;  nor  that  unexpected  honors,  in  mihtary  guise, 
waited  her  on  the  shore,  w^here  she  was  received  by  Sir  Ar- 
chibald in  person ;  nor  that  her  tent  was  larger  and  more  com- 
modious than  his  own,  with  the  very  agreeable  addition  of  a 
veranda  ;  but  it  was  a  certain  fatherly  kindness  and  genuine 
heart  interest,  which  made  her  feel  as  though  she  was  receiv- 
ing all  these  favors  from  a  friend. 

An  incident  that  occurred  a  few  days  after  the  landing  of 
the  prisoners  is  perhaps  worthy  of  notice.  General  Camp- 
bell was  to  give  a  dinner  to  the  Burmese  commissioners,  and 
he  chose  to  make  it  an  affair  of  some  pomp  and  magnificence. 
At  a  given  order,  almost  as  by  magic,  the  camp  was  turned 
into  a  scene  of  festivity,  with  such  a  profusion  of  gold  and 
crimson,  and  floating  banners,  as  is  thought  most  pleasing  to 
an  oriental  eye.  When  the  dinner  hour  arrived,  the  company 
marched  in  couples,  to  the  music  of  the  band,  toward  the  ta- 
ble, led  by  the  general,  who  walked  alone.  As  they  came 
opposite  the  tent  with  the  veranda  before  it,  suddenly  the 
music  ceased,  the  Avhole  procession  stood  still,  and  while  the 
wondering  Burmans  turned  their  eager  eyes  in  every  direc- 
tion, doubtful  as  to  what  would  be  the  next  act  in  the  little 
drama,  so  curious  to  them  as  strangers,  the  general  entered  the 
tent.  In  a  moment  he  reappeared  with  a  lady  on  his  arm,  — 
no  stranger  to  the  conscious  commissioners,  —  whom  he  led 
to  the  table,  and  seated  at  his  own  right  hand.  The  abashed 
commissioners  slid  into  their  seats  shrinkingly,  where  they  sat 
as  though  transfixed  by  a  mixture  of  astonishment  and  fear, 
"  T  fancy  these  gentlemen  must  be  old  acquaintances  of  yours, 
Mrs.  Judson,"  General  Campbell  remarked,  amused  by  what 
he  began  to  suspect,  though  he  did  not  fully  understand  it ; 
"  and,  judging  from  their  appearance,  you  must  have  treated 
them  very  ill."  Mrs.  Judson  smiled.  The  Burmans  could 
not  understand  the  remark,  but  they  evidently  considered 
themselves  the  subject  of  it,  and  their  faces  were  blank  with 
consternation. 


REMINISCENCES    OF    THE    BRITISH    CAMP.  397 

"  What  is  the  matter  with  yonder  owner  of  the  pointed 
beard  ?  "  pursued  Sir  Archibald  ;  "  he  seems  to  be  seized  with 
an  ague  fit." 

"  I  do  not  know,"  answered  Mrs.  Judson,  fixing  her  eyes  on 
the  trembler,  with  perhaps  a  mischievous  enjoyment  of  his 
anxiety,  "  unless  his  memory  may  be  too  busy.  He  is  an  old 
acquaintance  of  mine,  and  may  probably  infer  danger  to  him- 
self from  seeing  me  under  your  protection." 

She  then  proceeded  to  delate,  how,  when  her  husband  was 
suifering  from  fever,  in  the  stifled  air  of  the  inner  prison,  with 
five  pairs  of  fetters  about  his  ankles,  she  had  walked  several 
miles  to  this  man's  house  to  ask  a  favor.  She  had  left  home 
early  in  the  morning ;  but  was  kept  waiting  so  long  that 
it  was  noonday  before  she  proffered  her  request,  and  re- 
ceived a  rough  refusal.  She  was  turning  sorrowfully  away, 
when  his  attention  was  attracted  by  the  silk  umbrella  she  car- 
ried in  her  hand,  and  he  instantly  seized  upon  it.  It  was  in 
vain  that  she  represented  the  danger  of  her  walking  home 
without  it ;  told  him  she  had  brought  no  money,  and  could  not 
buy  any  thing  to  shelter  her  from  the  sun ;  and  begged  that,  if 
he  took  that,  he  would  at  least  furnish  her  with  a  paper  one, 
to  protect  her  from  the  scorching  heat.  He  laughed,  and  turn- 
ing the  very  suffering  that  had  wasted  her  into  a  jest,  told  her 
it  was  only  stout  people  w^ho  were  in  danger  of  a  sunstroke  — 
the  sun  could  not  find  such  as  she ;  and  so  turned  her  from 
the  door. 

Expressions  of  indignation  burst  from  the  lips  of  the  listen- 
ing officers  ;  and  try  to  restrain  them  as  they  would,  mdignant 
glances  did  somewhat  detract  from  that  high  tone  of  courtesy 
which  it  is  an  Englishman's,  and  especially  an  English  officer's, 
pride  to  preserve  in  all  matters  of  hospitality.  The  poor  Bur- 
man,  conscience-taught,  seemed  to  understand  every  thing  that 
was  passing,  and  his  features  were  distorted  with  fear ;  while 
his  face,  from  which  the  perspiration  oozed  painfully,  appeared, 
through  his  tawny  skin,  of  a  deathly  paleness.  It  was  not  in 
a  woman's  heart  to  do  other  than  pity  him ;  and  Mrs.  Judson 
remarked  softly,  in  Burmese,  that  he  had  nothing  to  fear,  and 
VOL.  I.  34 


398  ME310IR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

then  repeated  the  remark  to  Sir  Arcliibald.  The  conversation 
immediately  became  general,  and  every  means  was  taken  to 
reassure  the  timorous  guests,  but  with  little  success.  There 
sat  the  lady,  wdiom  all  but  one  of  them  had  personally  treated 
with  indignity,  at  the  right  hand  of  power,  and  her  husband, 
just  released  from  his  chains,  close  beyond  ;  and  they  doubtless 
felt  conscious  that  if  they  and  their  lady  Avives  were  in  such  a 
position,  they  Avould  ask  the  heads  of  their  enemies,  and  the 
request  would  be  granted. 

"  I  never  thought  I  was  over  and  above  vindictive,"  remarked 
Mr.  Judson,  when  he  told  the  story  ;  "  but  really  it  w^as  one  of 
the  richest  scenes  I  ever  beheld." 

A  British  officer,  Major  C alder  Campbell,  describing  "  an 
adventure  inAva"  in  the  year  1826,  gives  a  beautiful  and 
affectuig  description  of  Mrs.  Judson.  Major  Campbell,  then  a 
lieutenant,  when  descending  the  Irrawadi  R-iver  in  a  canoe 
manned  by  Burmans,  was  attacked  in  the  night,  while  asleep, 
by  his  faithless  boatmen,  and  severely  wounded  and  robbed. 
When  waiting  on  the  beach  with  much  anxiety  and  distress 
for  the  passage  of  some  friendly  bark,  a  row  boat  was  seen 
approaching. 

Signals  of  distress  were  made,  and  a  skiff  sent  to  his  assist- 
ance.    The  following  is  the  language  of  the  writer  :  — 

"  We  were  taken  on  board.  My  eyes  first  rested  on  the  thin, 
attenuated  form  of  a  lady  —  a  white  lady !  the  first  white 
woman  I  had  seen  for  more  than  a  year  !  She  was  standing  on 
the  little  deck  of  the  row  boat,  leaning  on 'the  arm  of  a  sickly- 
looking  gentleman  with  an  intellectual  cast  of  countenance, 
in  whom  I  at  once  recognized  the  husband  or  the  brother. 

"  His  dress  and  bearing  pointed  him  out  as  a  missionary.  I 
have  said  that  I  had  not  beheld  a  white  female  for  many 
months  ;  and  now  the  soothing  accents  of  female  words  fell 
upon  my  ears  like  a  household  hymn  of  my  youth. 

"  My  wound  was  tenderly  dressed,  my  head  bound  up,  and  I 
was  laid  upon  a  sofa  bed.  With  what  a  thankful  heart  did  I 
breathe  forth  a  blessing  on  these  kind  Samaritans  !  With  what 
delight  did  I  drink  in  the  mild,  gentle  sounds   of  that  sweet 


REMINISCENCE    OP    AN    l.XriLISII    OFFICER.  399 

woman's  voice,  as  she  pressed  me  to  recruit  my  strength  with 
some  of  that  beverage '  which  cheers,  but  not  inebriates  ! '  She 
was  seated  in  a  large  sort  of  swinging  chair,  of  American 
construction,  in  which  her  slight,  emaciated,  but  graceful  form 
appeared  almost  ethereal.  Yet,  with  much  of  heaven,  there 
were  still  the  breathmgs  of  earthly  feeling  about  her ;  for  at  her 
feet  rested  a  babe,  a  little,  wan  baby,  on  which  her  eyes  often 
turned  with  all  a  mother's  love  ;  and  gazing  frequently  upon 
her  delicate  features,  with  a  fond  yet  fearful  glance,  was  that 
meek  missionary,  her  husband.  Her  face  was  pale,  very  pale, 
with  that  expression  of  deej)  and  serious  thought  which  speaks 
of  the  strong  and  vigorous  mind  within  the  frail  and  perishing 
body ;  her  brown  hair  was  braided  over  a  placid  and  holy 
brow  ;  but  her  hands  —  those  small,  lily  hands  —  were  quite 
beautiful ;  beautiful  they  were,  and  very  wan ;  for  ah,  they  told 
of  disease  —  of  death  —  death  in  all  its  transparent  grace  — 
when  the  sickly  blood  shines  through  the  clear  skin,  even  as  the 
bright  poison  lights  up  the  Venetian  glass  which  it  is  about  to 
shatter.  That  lady  was  Mrs.  Judson,  Avhose  long  captivity 
and  severe  hardships  amongst  the  Burmese  have  since  been 
detailed  in  her  published  journals. 

"  I  remained  two  days  with  them ;  two  delightful  days  they 
were  to  me.  Mrs.  Judson's  powers  of  conversation  were  of  the 
lirst  order,  and  the  many  affecting  anecdotes  that  she  gave  us 
of  their  long  and  cruel  bondage,  their  struggles  in  the  cause 
of  religion,  and  their  adventures  during  a  long  residence  at  the 
court  of  Ava,  gained  a  heightened  interest  from  the  beautiful, 
energetic  simplicity  of  her  language,  as  well  as  from  the  cer- 
tainty I  felt  that  so  fragile  a  flower  as  she  in  very  truth  was, 
had  but  a  brief  season  to  linger  on  earth. 

"  Why  is  it  that  we  grieve  to  think  of  the  approaching  death 
of  the  young,  the  virtuous,  the  ready  ?  Alas  !  it  is  the  selfish- 
ness of  human  nature  that  would  keep  to  itself  the  purest  and 
sweetest  gifts  of  Heaven,  to  encounter  the  blasts  and  the  blights 
of  a  world  where  we  see  them,  rather  than  that  they  should 
be  transplanted  to  a  happier  region,  lohere  toe  see  them  jiot. 

"  "When    I  left  the  kind   Judsons,  I   did    so  with  regret. 


400  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

When  I  looked  my  last  on  her  mild,  worn  countenance,  as 
she  issued  some  instructions  to  my  new  set  of  boatmen,  I 
felt  my  eyes  fill  with  prophetic  tears.  They  were  not  per- 
ceived. We  parted,  and  we  never  met  again  ;  nor  is  it  likely 
that  the  wounded  subaltern  was  ever  again  thought  of  by 
those  who  had  succored  him.  Mrs.  Judson  and  her  child 
died  soon  after  the  cessation  of  hostilities." 


CHAPTER    XI. 

MISSION  TKANSFEPtKED  TO  THE  TENASSEKIM  PROVINCES.  — RE- 
MOVES  TO  AMllEKST.- EMBASSY  TO  AVA.  — SYSTEM  OF  MIS- 
SIONARY REGULATIONS.—  DEATH  OF  MRS.  JUDSON.  —  DEATH 
OF  HIS  ONLY  CHILD.  -  REMOVES  TO  MAULMAIN.  —  DEATH  OF 
HIS   FATHER. 

182G-1827. 

Upon  Dr.  Jiiclson's  return  to  Rangoon,  after  leaving 
the  camp  at  Yandabo,  be  found  the  city  invested  by 
the  Peguans,  who  had  seized  this  opportunity  for 
attempting  to  regain  their  independence.  Every  thing 
was  in  utter  confusion.  The  mission  house  was  a 
ruin  ;  the  disciples  had  fled ;  and  it  was  evident  that 
some  other  place  must  now  be  selected  as  the  scene  of 
missionary  labor.  It  is  true  that  the  king  had  re- 
quested Dr.  Judson  to  remain  at  Ava,  and  had  prom- 
ised him  honors  and  rewards ;  b\it  he  had  refused  to 
grant  religious  toleration  to  his  subjects.  For  a  long 
time  the  lower  provinces,  which  had  been  in  pos- 
session of  the  British,  must  suffer  severely  from  the 
vindictive  jealousy  of  the  monarch.  The  portions  of 
Burmah  which  had  been  ceded  to  the  British  were 
inhabited  by  the  same  races  as  the  other  parts  of  the 
empire.  In  these  the  gospel  might  be  preached  ;  here 
missions  might  be  established,  not  merely  by  sufferahce, 
but  under  the  fostering  care  of  a  Christian  government. 
Every  thing  conspired  to  point  out  the  Tenasserim 
provinces  as  the  future  scat  of  the  mission  ;  at  least 
until  some  change  should  take  place  in  the  political 
condition  of  the  Burman  empire. 

Dr.  Judson,  who  had  rendered  so  important  services 
at  the  treaty  of  Yandabo,  and  who  was  better  ac- 
34  *  401 


402  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

quainted  with  the  Burman  language  and  character 
than  any  other  European,  was  invited  to  proceed  from 
Rangoon  with  the  civil  commissioner,  Mr.  Crawfurd, 
to  select  the  site  of  the  new  capital  for  the  ceded  prov- 
inces. This  invitation  he  accepted.  Proceeding  in 
a  steamer  to  the  mouth  of  the  Salwen,  in  company 
with  the  commissioner,  he  examined  various  localities 
from  Point  Kyaikamee  to  Maulmain.  It  was  at  the 
former  place  that  the  most  desirable  situation  was 
found,  and  there  it  was  determined  that  a  town  should 
be  established.  It  was  accordingly  selected  for  that 
purpose  in  the  name  of  the  British  government,  and 
the  Honorable  East  India  Company,  and,  as  a  com- 
pliment to  the  then  governor  general,  was  named 
Amherst. 

Here  it  was  intended  to  establish  the  capital  of  the 
Tenasserim  provinces,  and  here  it  would  have  been 
established  but  for  an  unfortunate  misunderstanding 
between  the  civil  commissioner  and  the  commander- 
in-chief.  Sir  Archibald  Campbell  considered  Maul- 
main, a  small  town  twenty-seven  miles  farther  up  the 
river,  the  most  favorable  military  position.  Here  he, 
therefore,  established  his  head  quarters,  and  erected 
barracks  for  the  troops.  This  determined  the  direction 
in  which  population  should  flow.  Maulmain  became 
the  capital.  Amherst  declined,  and,  in  spite  of  its 
commercial  advantages,  has  remained  to  the  present 
time  an  insignificant  town.  When  the  course  of 
events  became  thus  determined,  Mr.  Crawfurd  resigned 
the  civil  government  of  the  provinces,  and  the  aid  of 
a  most  intelligent  and  competent  officer  was  lost  to 
the   mission. 

As  soon,  however,  as  the  site  of  Amherst  was  se- 
lected, Dr.  Judson  determined  to  remove  thither  with 


AMHERST.  403 

his  family.  On  the  2d  of  July,  1826,  he  arrived  there 
with  Mrs.  Judson,  who  was  very  kindly  received  by 
Captain  Fenwick,  the  military  officer  of  the  station. 
The  following  letters  relate  to  these  events :  — 

To  the  Coii'esponding  Secretary. 
Steam  Vessel,  off  Kyaiicamee,  April  1,  1826. 

My  DEAR  Sir:  I  left  Rangoon  about  one  o'clock  yester- 
day, in  company  with  Mr.  Crawfurd,  commissioner  of  the 
governor  general,  on  an  exploring  expedition  to  the  upper 
parts  of  the  provinces  lately  ceded  by  the  Burmese  govern- 
ment to  the  British.  This  morning,  made  the  Kyaikamee 
temple,  perched  on  the  highest  part  of  a  ledge  of  rocks,  which 
projects  into  the  sea  from  a  high  bluff  crowned  with  large 
trees,  at  the  very  entrance  of  the  Salwen  or  Martaban  River. 
After  several  hours  spent  in  examining  the  shoals  and  rocks, 
and  ascertaining  a  safe  entrance,  we  found  good  anchorage, 
inside  the  rocky  promo.ntory,  about  one  hundred  and  fifty 
yards  from  the  shore.  Just  at  night,  set  our  feet  on  some  of 
the  rocks,  which  at  present  impede  the  free  entrance  of  a  boat, 
and  with  some  difficulty  reached  the  beach,  ascended  the  high 
ground,  and  looked  round  on  a  place,  which,  though  now  cov- 
ered with  woods,  and  exhibiting  no  marks  of  having  ever  been 
inhabited,  except  the  remains  of  a  few  old  pagodas  and  wells, 
appears  to  be,  from  vicinity  to  the  sea,  good  anchorage  ground, 
and  connection  with  an  extensive  interior,  well  calculated  to 
be  the  site  of  a  new  town,  the  future  seat  of  government. 

April  2.  Out  early  in  the  morning,  with  the  animation  of 
new  discoverers  —  Mr.  Crawfurd  and  other  gentlemen  of  the 
party  aspiring  to  the  honor  of  founding  a  town  which  shall 
rival  the  most  celebrated  ports  of  the  P^ast,  and  extend  the 
interest  and  honor  of  their  king  and  country ;  myself,  while 
far  from  being  indifferent  to  the  same  objects,  yet  animated  by 
higher  hopes  and  more  extended  prospects.  Discovered  a 
small  river,  two  miles  above  the  point,  called  the  Kalyen  or 
Wagaree,  from  a  small  village  of  that  name,  a  few  miles  from 


404  MEMOIR    OF    Dll.    JUDSON. 

its  mouth.  Proceeded  up  the  river  in  the  steam  vessel, 
viewed  several  places  on  the  banks,  and  at  night  returned  to 
our  old  station. 

April  3.  Went  up  the  eastern  branch  of  the  Salwen  River, 
to  Martaban,  on  the  Burmese  side,  but  still  occupied  by  Brit- 
ish troops,  nearly  thirty  miles  from  its  mouth.  Found  not 
sufficient  water  for  large  ships,  and  concluded,  therefore,  at 
once,  that  no  place  up  the  river  would  answer  for  the  new 
settlement.  Just  below  Martaban,  the  Ataran,  Gyne,  and 
Salwen  unite,  and  form  a  beautiful  expanse  of  water ;  on  one 
side  the  town  of  Martaban,  on  the  other  the  district  of  Maul- 
main,  where  it  had  been  originally  proposed  to  form  the  new 
settlement,  the  country  appearing  fertile,  and  the  distant 
prospects,  on  every  side,  bounded  by  ranges  of  high  mountains, 
covered  with  wood,  and  replete,  as  we  were  told,  with  mineral 
treasure.  All  of  us  regretted  the  want  of  deep  water  in  the 
channel  leading  to  this  delightful  spot,  yet  perfectly  reconciled 
to  a  port  at  Kyaikamee,  from  the  assurance  that  all  the  pro- 
ductions of  the  interior  may  be  conveyed  thither  by  these  same 
streams,  with  as  much  facility  as  to  any  part  of  Maulmain. 

April  4.  Went  up  the  Salwen,  about  twenty  miles  above 
Martaban.  The  features  of  the  country,  as  we  advanced, 
became  more  marked  and  diversiiied,  evidently  capable  also 
of  a  high  degree  of  cultivation.  Villagers  removing  from  the 
western  to  the  eastern  bank,  to  enjoy  the  protection  of  the 
British  government.  Went  ashore,  and  explored  a  very  curi- 
ous temple,  partially  subterranean,  and  filled  with  a  most 
astonishing  nmnber  and  variety  of  images.  At  night  returned 
to  Martaban. 

April  5.  Accompanied  by  Captain  Fenwick,  civil  super- 
intendent of  these  parts,  we  retraced  our  course  between  the 
fertile  island  of  Balu  and  the  eastern  coast,  and  resumed  our 
old  station  off  Kyaikamee,  which,  notwithstanding  its  present 
rough  and  wild  appearance,  evidently  possesses  greater  advan- 
tages and  capabilities  than  any  other  place  we  have  seen  in 
these  parts. 

April  6.     Repaired  to  the  beach  under  a  bold  cliff,  on  the 


KE^IOYAL    TO    AMHERST.  405 

north-western  side  of  the  promontory,  in  company  with  the 
civil  and  mihtary  authorities  present,  when,  by  command  of 
the  commissioner,  the  British  flag  was  hoisted,  and,  under  fire 
of  a  royal  salute  and  discharge  of  musketry,  the  place  was 
taken  possession  of  in  the  name  of  the  King  and  the  Honora- 
ble Company,  and  the  ceremonies  concluded  by  reading  the  six- 
tieth chapter  of  Isaiah,  and  presenting  an  appropriate  prayer. 
Designation  of  the  new  place — Amherst. 

April  7.  Traversed  i\\Q,  woods,  and  marked  out  some  of 
the  outlines.  Observed  the  tracks  of  tigers,  buffaloes,  deer, 
and  wild  hogs.  Another  trip  up  the  Salwen.  Towards  night, 
employed  in  translating  into  Burmese  a  proclamation  of  the 
commissioner  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  adjoining  districts. 

April  8,  afternoon.  Took  leave  of  Amherst,  on  return  to 
Rangoon. 

April  9.  Having  strong  west  wind  all  the  way,  made  slow 
progress,  and  anchored  just  below  Rangoon  late  at  night. 

April  1-i.  Mrs.  Judson  and  myself  conclude  to  be  the  first 
settlers  in  Amherst.  I  have  taken  down  the  zayat,  (may 
the  blessing  of  God  rest  on  it,  as  in  days  of  old,)  and  intend 
to  send  the  boards  by  an  early  conveyance,  to  form  a  tempo- 
rary shelter  during  the  approaching  rainy  season.  We  are 
promised  a  passage  in  the  steam  vessel,  which  will  leave  this 
in  the  course  of  ten  days. 

Affectionately  yours, 

A.  Judson,  Jr. 

When  the  treaty  of  Yandabo  was  negotiated,  it 
was  stipulated  that  an  additional  commercial  treaty 
should  be  contracted  between  the  British  and  Burman 
governments.  ]Mr.  Crawfurd  was  appointed  envoy 
on  behalf  of  the  governor  general  in  council,  to  con- 
duct this  negotiation.  He  had  become  intimately 
acquainted  with  Dr.  Judson,  and  was  exceedingly 
desirous  of  securing  his  assistance  in  this  embassy 
to  Ava.     For  a  long  time  Dr.  Judson  resisted  every 


406  MEMOIR    OF   DR.    JUDSON. 

solicitation.  At  last,  Mr.  Crawfurd  promised  to  use 
every  effort  to  procure  the  insertion  of  an  article  in 
the  treaty  which  should  guaranty  to  all  the  subjects 
of  the  king  the  right  of  religious  liberty.  The  hope 
that  so  desirable  an  end  might  be  attained  decided 
Dr.  Judson,  at  last,  to  accept  the  appointment.  He 
would  not,  however,  have  come  to  this  conclusion  but 
for  the  opinion  of  his  wife,  who  decidedly  favored  it. 

The  emolument  accruing  from  this  service  would, 
however,  be  what  missionaries  would  consider  large. 
Here,  then,  was  a  principle  involved  for  which  no  pre- 
cedent existed  in  the  management  of  American  mis- 
sions. Ought  a  missionary  to  be  allowed  to  enter,  for 
a  time,  into  any  other  service  ?  and  if  this  were,  under 
any  circumstances,  allowed,  to  whom  should  the  remu- 
neration belong  ?  —  to  himself,  or  to  the  missionary 
board  ?  A  difference  of  opinion  on  this  subject  led  to 
a  most  unpleasant  discussion  between  the  missionaries 
at  Serampore  and  their  brethren  at  home,  which 
terminated  in  a  total  separation  of  the  parties  from 
each  other.  Dr.  Judson  saw  that  this  was  the  time 
for  the  settlement  of  the  question.  He  conceived 
that  the  whole  time  of  the  missionary  was  to  be  con- 
secrated to  the  work  of  propagating  the  gospel ;  that 
the  board  at  home  became  responsible  for  his  whole 
support,  and  therefore  that  he  could  not,  with  pro- 
priety, enter  into  any  other  engagements  without 
their  consent,  or,  in  special  emergencies,  the  consent 
of  his  associates ;  and  that  whatever  remuneration 
should  accrue  from  his  services  was  to  be  considered 
not  his  own  property,  but  the  property  of  the  board. 
He  saw  also  that  a  decision  on  this  subject  would 
become  more  universally  binding,  if  it  were  proposed 
by  him  on  the   eve  of  entering  upon  an  engagement 


SYSTEM    OP    REGULATIONS.  407 

wliich  wonld  be<both  honorable  and  lucrative.  With 
these  views  he  wrote  immediately  to  the  board,  and 
suggested  the  rules  on  this  subject  by  which  this  and 
all  future  cases  should  be  decided.  They  were  adopted 
in  this  country  without  alteration,  and  remain  un- 
changed to  the  present  moment. 

In  consequence  of  this  decision,  Dr.  Judson  made 
over  to  the  board  five  thousand  two  hundred  rupees, 
tlie  sum  allowed  him  by  the  governor  general  in  coun- 
cil, in  consideration  of  his  services  at  the  treaty  of 
Yandabo,  and  as  a  member  of  the  embassy  to  Ava, 
and  also  two  thousand  rupees,  the  avails  of  presents 
made  to  him  at  Ava.  This  was  frequently  spoken  of 
as  a  donation  to  the  mission.  He,  however,  never  so 
considered  it.  In  conveying  it  to  the  board,  he  only 
acted  in  conformity  with  the  principles  which  he  had 
adopted,  and  by  w^hich  he  believed  every  mission- 
ary should  be  governed.  If  he  had  retained  it,  no  one 
could  have  found  just  cause  of  complaint;  for  during 
these  months  but  little  could  have  been  done  for  the 
mission.  He  appreciated,  however,  the  value  of  the 
principle,  and  refused  to  receive  any  higher  remunera- 
tion than  was  received  by  his  brethren,  considering 
all  the  surplus  the  rightful  property  of  the  mission. 

To  the  Corresponding  Secretary. 

Raxgoox,  June  10,  1826. 
Rev.  Sir  :  It  has,  for  some  time,  appeared  to  me  necessary, 
in  order  to  prevent  the  improper  appropriation  and  lavish 
Avaste  of  the  mission  funds,  and  to  prevent  missionaries  from 
pursuing  measures  with  a  view  to  their  own  emolument,  while 
ostensibly  engaged  in  missionary  Avork,  that  a  system  of  regu- 
lations should  be  adopted  by  the  board  or  the  managing  com- 
mittee, and  made  binding  on  all  the  missionaries  in  their 


408  MEMOIR    OF    DR.  JUDSON. 

employ.  Experience  has  shown  that  regi^lations  adopted  by 
missionaries  themselves,  though  subsequently  sanctioned  by 
higher  authority,  are  not  sufficiently  binding ;  nor  is  that 
mode  of  proceeding  so  proper  as  to  have  the  regulations  ema- 
nate from  the  managing  powers. 

With  these  views,  I  take  the  liberty  of  submitting  to  your 
consideration  the  accompanying  paper,  No.  I.  The  regula- 
tions therein  contained  may  be  thought  by  some  too  lax,  and 
by  others  too  strict.  I  can  only  say  that  they  are  the  result 
of  many  years'  experience,  and  a  very  extensive  acquaintance 
with  missionaries  of  various  denominations,  the  relations  which 
have  subsisted  between  them  and  their  employers,  and  the 
rules  by  which  they  have  been  governed.  In  framing  the 
system  of  regulations  now  presented,  I  have  had  a  particular 
view  to  the  numerous  difficulties  and  differences  which  have 
arisen  between  missionaries  and  managers  of  missions,  few 
only  of  which  are  generally  known,  and  have  endeavored  to 
preserve  the  balance  of  power  between  the  parties,  so  as  to 
infringe  neither  the  natural  rights  of  the  one,  nor  the  directing 
and  controlling  power  of  the  other. 

The  accompanying  paper.  No.  II.,  contains  a  resolution  which 
T  propose  for  adoption,  conformably  to  the  third  article  of  the 
regulations.  The  rates  of  allowance  therein  stated  are  rather 
higher  than  those  originally  fixed  by  the  missionaries  in  Ran- 
goon, where,  on  account  of  the  exportation  of  money  being 
strictly  prohibited  by  the  Burmese  government,  the  exchange 
was  generally  twenty  or  thirty  per  cent,  in  favor  of  Bengal. 
In  the  ceded  provinces,  as  there  will  be  no  restriction  on 
the  exportation  of  specie,  the  exchange  will  probably  be 
at  par. 

I  have  only  to  add  that,  if  the  regulations  now  submitted 
meet  your  approbation,  the  sooner  copies  are  forwarded  to  the 
several  missionaries  for  their  signature,  the  sooner,  I  trust, 
existing  evils  will  be  remedied. 

Yours  faithfully, 

A.  JuDSON,  Jr. 


SYSTEM    OF    REGULATIONS.  409 


Ko.  I. 


Regulations  of  the  Managing  Committee  of  the  Board  of 
Missions  of  the  American  Baptist  Convention.  To  be  sub- 
scribed by  all  persons  entering  the  service  of  the  board,  and 
to  be  forwarded  for  signature  to  all  persons  previously  in 
service. 

1.  No  missionary  receiving  pecuniary  support  from  the 
board  shall  engage  in  any  secular  business  for  the  purpose  of 
personal  emolument;  and  not  at  all,  unless,  in  the  opinion  of  the 
board,  the  great  object  of  the  mission  can  be  best  promoted 
thereby. 

2.  No  such  missionary  shall  appropriate  to  himself  the  avails 
of  his  labor,  or  the  compensation  he  may  receive  for  service 
of  any  kind  ;  but  all  avails  of  labor,  and  all  presents  or  pay- 
ments made  in  consideration  of  services  performed,  shall  be 
placed  to  the  credit  of  the  board  :  Provided,  that  nothing  in 
this  article  shall  be  construed  to  affect  private  property,  in- 
heritances, or  personal  favors,  not  made  in  compensation  of 
service. 

3.  All  missionaries  supported  by  the  board  shall,  with  their 
wives  and  children,  be  considered  as  having  claims  on  the  mis- 
sion fund  for  equal  support  in  similar  circumstances,  the  rates 
of  allowance  being  fixed  by  the  hoard,  and  the  claims  of  wid- 
ows and  orphans  being  not  invalidated  by  the  death  of  the 
head  of  their  family. 

4.  In  regard  to  missionaries  who  support  themselves  from 
the  income  of  their  estates,  or  in  any  way  not  inconsistent 
with  their  missionary  profession,  they  shall  be  considered  mem- 
bers of  the  mission  equally  with  those  who  receive  pecuniary 
support,  and,  therefore,  equally  subject  to  the  instructions  and 
general  regulations  of  the  board. 

5.  Every  missionary,  however  supported,  shall  transmit  to 
the  board,  in  a  journal  or  series  of  letters,  a  regular  account 
of  the  manner  in  which  he  spends  his  time  and  performs  the 
duties  of  his  profession. 

6.  Missionaries  stationed  in  the  same  place  or  vicinity,  who 
VOL.   L  35 


410  MEMOIR    OF    DK.    JUDSON. 

shall  form  a  voUintaiy  compact  for  that  piupose,  shall  be  a 
committee  of  the  board,  for  the  appropriation  and  disposal  of 
money  and  property  intrusted  to  them  by  the  boai'd,  the  Chris- 
tian public,  or  private  individuals,  and  for  the  general  manage- 
ment of  missionary  affairs. 

7.  If  a  missionary  persist  in  violating  any  of  the  above  reg- 
ulations, it  shall  be  tlie  indispensable  duty  of  his  associates  in 
the  mission  to  give  full  information  to  the  board. 

No.  11. 

Resolution  of  the  Board  or  the  Managing  Committee. 
Resolved,  That,  in  regard  to  missionaries  stationed  in  the 
provinces  lately  ceded  to  the  British,  south  and  east  of  the 
Sal  wen  River,  tlie  monthly  allowance  for  their  personal  ex- 
penses, exclusive  of  appropriations  for  building  or  house  rent, 
conveyance  on  mission  business,  and  other  expenses  of  a  pub- 
lic nature,  be,  for  a  single  man  one  hundred  and  ten,  for  a 
married  man  one  hundred  and  fifty,  for  a  child  twelve,  and  for 
a  widow  or  single  woman  seventy-five  rupees  per  month,  pay- 
able in  Benp-al. 

To  a  Friend. 

Rangoon,  July  12,  1826. 

My  dear  Sir  :  Your  very  handsome  present  of  three 
hundred  rupees  arrived  most  opportunely  to  enable  Mrs. 
Judson  to  build  a  temporary  mission  house,  and  set  up  a  small 
school  at  Amherst ;  for  which  purposes  no  appropriation  had 
been  made  by  our  managing  committee  at  home.  I  left 
her  there,  a  few  days  ago,  in  the  house  of  Captain  Fen- 
wick,  civil  superintendent,  who  immediately  on  our  arrival 
vacated  it  for  her  present  accommodation,  and  who  exerted 
himself  in  every  possible  way  to  render  her  situation  com- 
fortable during  my  absence. 

We  found  several  of  the  native  converts  who  had  preceded 
us  to  that  place,  and  built  the  first  native  houses  that  en- 
croached on  the  jungle,  and  disturbed  the  deer  and  wild  fowl 
which  had  been  tlie  undisputed  occupants  of  the  peninsula. 


EMBASSY    TO    AVA.  411 

Two  of  the  men,  whose  names  you  may  recollect,  Moung 
Shwa-ba  and  Moung  Ing,  I  have  long  intended  for  assistants 
in  the  mission,  and  I  have  now  advised  that  one  of  them  be 
immediately  emjiloyed  in  the  school,  and  the  other  as  an  itiner- 
ant missionary  among  the  new  settlers. 

Mrs.  Judson  is  delighted  with  her  situation  and  prospects, 
though  all  around  her  is  yet  wild,  and  she  can  expect  but  very 
little  society  at  present.  There  are  about  fifty  houses,  chiefly 
native,  exclusive  of  the  military  cantonment,  and  officers' 
houses,  about  a  mile  distant,  on  the  west  side  of  the  peninsula ; 
but  after  the  rainy  season,  the  influx  of  native  population  will 
probably  be  very  great.  The  harbor  proves  to  be  safe  and 
commodious,  and  the  place  evidently  possesses  capabil- 
ities and  resources  which  must  render  it,  in  time,  a  point  of 
considerable  importance. 

It  was  with  great  reluctance  that  I  left  Amherst  and 
returned  to  this  place,  to  accompany  the  embassy  to  Ava, 
according  to  my  engagement  with  Mr.  Crawfurd  —  an  engage- 
ment which  he  obtained  by  long  solicitation,  and  finally  by 
holding  out  a  temptation  that  I  could  not,  or  rather  thought  it 
not  my  duty  to  resist ;  he  pledged  himseH"  to  use  liis  utmost 
interest  to  secure  in  the  commercial  treaty  which  he  is  com- 
missioned to  negotiate  with  the  court  at  Ava,  an  article  in 
favor  of  religious  toleration,  on  principles  of  reciprocity ;  the 
Burman  government  engaging  not  to  persecute  their  subjects 
who  may  embrace  the  Christian  religion,  and  the  British  gov- 
ernment securing  a  similar  privilege  to  their  subjects  in  behalf 
of  the  religion  of  Gaudama.  I  sincerely  hope  that  the  busi- 
ness of  the  embassy  will  be  accomplished  in  three  or  four 
months,  and  that  I  shall  reach  Amherst  and  recommence  mis- 
sionary operations  in  November  next. 

Your  donation  to  the  mission,  and  that  of  Mr. ,  I 

regard  as  peculiarly  valuable,  because  uninfluenced  by  solici- 
tation, personal  attachment,  or  desire  of  human  praise,  and 
therefore  affording  assurance  of  having  originated  in  those 
motives  which  alone  are  acceptable  in  the  sight  of  our  blessed 
Lord ;  assurance  also  of  being  accompanied  and  followed  by 


412  MEMOIR    OF    DR.   JUDSON. 

that  spirit  of  prayer  for  the  mission  which  invests  the  dona- 
tion with  its  greatest  value. 

Mrs.  Judson  and  myself  feel  much  gratified  that  our  mis- 
sionary efforts  have  attracted  your  notice,  and  obtained  your 
approbation  ;  and,  begging  for  a  continued  interest  in  your 
good  wishes  and  prayers, 

I  remain,  my  dear  sir, 
Yours  with  much  affection  and  respect, 

A.  Judson,  Jr. 

To  the  Corresponding  Secretary. 

Rangoon,  July  31,  1826. 

Rev.  and  dear  Sir:  At  the  date  of  my  last,  the  10th  of 
June,  I  was  waiting  for  an  opportunity  of  removing  to  Am- 
herst. Since  then,  the  commissioner,  Mr.  Crawfurd,  who  is 
appointed  to  negotiate  a  secondary  treaty  with  the  court  of 
Ava,  renewed  his  proposal  for  me  to  accompany  the  embassy, 
and  pledged  himself,  in  case  of  my  complying,  to  use  his 
interest  to  procure  the  insertion  of  an  article  in  the  treaty 
favorable  to  religious  toleration  —  an  object  which  I  have  had 
at  heart  so  many  years,  and  which,  though  now,  on  account  of 
the  opening  in  the  south  provinces,  not  so  necessary  as  for- 
merly, is  yet  greatly  favorable  to  the  gradual  introduction  of 
religion  into  all  parts  of  the  country,  from  the  station  which 
we  propose  occupying.  With  these  views,  I  thought  it  my 
duty  to  accept  the  offer.  Desirous,  however,  of  making  a  com- 
mencement in  the  new  place  as  early  as  possible,  and  unwilling 
to  disappoint  the  native  converts,  who  had  left  this  in  the  full 
expectation  of  our  immediately  following  them,  I  accompanied 
Mrs.  Judson  and  family  thither,  in  the  end  of  last  month ;  and 
after  seeing  them  comfortably  settled,  in  a  temporary  house  be- 
longing to  Captain  Fenwick,  civil  superintendent  of  the  place, 
which  he  kindly  vacated  for  Mrs.  Judson's  accommodation, 
I  returned  to  Rangoon  the  9th  instant. 

The  new  town  has  made  some  progress  during  the  rains. 
About  fifty  native  houses,  Burmese,  Chinese,  and  India-Mus- 
sulman, and  three  or  four  European,  exclusive  of  barracks  for 
the  troops  and  oflicers'  houses,  compose  the  infant  settlement. 


EMBASSY    TO    AVA.  413 

As  soon  as  the  favorable  season  commences,  it  will  increase 
rapidly,  in  consequence  of  large  emigrations  from  Rangoon. 
Numerous  villages  are  even  now  springing  up  on  the  eastern 
side  of  the  Salwen,  and  there  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  whole 
region  will  eventually  be  filled  witli  native  population.  The 
harbor  of  Amherst  proves  to  be  safe  and  commodious  ;  large 
forests  of  teak  have  been  discovered  in  the  interior,  thereby 
insuring  it  a  place  of  trade ;  the  situation  of  the  settlement, 
exposed  at  all  seasons  to  the  sea  breeze,  must  be  healthy,  and 
the  mission,  I  may  venture  to  say,  will  receive  the  decided 
patronage  of  government.  The  management  of  aU  the  ceded 
l)rovinces  will  probably  be  intrusted  to  Mr.  Crawfurd,  one  of 
the  most  enlightened,  intelligent,  liberal  men  I  have  ever  met ; 
one  most  eminently  qualified  to  discharge  the  highest  and  most 
responsible  duties  of  government. 

The  embassy  will  leave  this  for  Ava  on  the  receipt  of  final 
orders  from  Bengal,  which  are  daily  expected.  I  hope  that 
the  object  of  the  embassy  will  be  obtained  in  the  course  of 
three  or  four  months,  and  that  I  shall  be  able  to  reach  Am- 
herst and  recommence  missionary  operations  in  Novem- 
ber next. 

Yours  faithfully, 

A.  JUDSON,  Jk. 

Mr.  Judson,  on  the  5th  of  July,  left  Mrs.  Judson 
and  his  family  at  Amherst,  to  embark  for  Rangoon  on 
his  way  to  Ava,  in  the  suite  of  Mr.  Crawfurd,  the 
British  envoy.  It  was  not  until  the  30th  of  Septem- 
ber that  he  arrived  at  the  capital,  where  the  negotia- 
tions were  to  be  conducted.  He  soon  found,  to  his 
mortification,  that  no  provision  in  favor  of  religious 
toleration  could  be  secured.  His  labor,  therefore,  so 
far  as  this  result  was  concerned,  was  fruitless  ;  and 
he  was  constrained  to  spend  his  time  in  a  service  in 
which  he  felt  very  small  interest,  and  which  could  con- 
tribute but  very  little  to  the  happiness  or  prosperity  of 
either  nation.  The  Burmans  were  ignorant  of  their 
35* 


414  me:.ioir  of  dr.  jcdson. 

own  interest,  incapable  of  appreciating  honorable 
motives,  afraid  of  the  wisdom,  as  they  had  been  of  the 
prowess,  of  their  conquerors,  and  seemed  governed  by 
one  maxim  only,  w^hich  was,  to  agree  to  as  little  as 
possible.  To  labor  in  conducting  a  negotiation  un- 
der such  circumstances  must  have  been,  to  a  man  of 
Dr.  Judson's  aspirations,  sufficiently  irksome. 

But  the  w^orst  was  yet  to  come.  On  the  24th  of 
November,  he  heard  of  the  death  of  Mrs.  Judson. 
She  died  at  Amherst,  on  the  24th  of  October,  1826, 
in  the  thirty-seventh  year  of  her  age.  The  being 
whom  he  loved  better  than  all  else  on  earth,  who  had 
been  so  intimately  associated  with  him  in  all  his  plans 
of  benevolence,  and  who  had  borne  so  important  a 
part  in  their  accomplishment ;  to  whose  devoted  love, 
consummate  tact,  and  heroic  resolution,  for  twenty- 
one  months,  he  had  been  indebted  not  only  for  his 
life,  but  for  all  that  rendered  life  endurable  ;  a  w^oman 
who  was  the  acknowledged  ornament  of  every  circle 
in  which  she  had  moved,  —  had,  in  an  unexpected  mo- 
ment, been  removed  from  him  forever.  She  had  sick- 
ened and  died  among  strangers.  A  few  native  Chris- 
tian women  were  her  only  female  attendants.  The 
voice  which  might  have  soothed  her  agony  could  not 
administer  to  her  the  consolations  of  the  gospel. 
Other  hands  than  his  had  smoothed  her  pillow,  re- 
ceived her  messages  of  love,  closed  her  dying  eyes, 
and  consigned  her  to  the  house  appointed  for  all  the 
living.  Her  last  words  were  spoken  of  him,  and  her 
last  request  to  Dr.  Richardson,  her  medical  attendant, 
was,  that  he  would  convey  to  her  husband  her  earnest 
entreaty  that  he  would  never  consent  to  enter  the  ser- 
vice of  the  British  government,  but  confine  hirtiself 
exclusively  to  the  duties  of  his  religious  mission.  It 
is  very  rare  that  so   many  elements  of  exquisite  sad- 


DEATH    OF    MRS.  JUDSOX.  415 

ness  are  concentrated  in  one  bereavement.  The  narra- 
tive of  these  mournful  events  is  best  conveyed  by  his 
own  pen. 

Dr.  Judson  to  his  Sister. 

AvA,  December  7,  1826. 

Weep  with  me,  my  dear  sister  and  parents,  for  my  beloved 
wife  is  no  more.  She  died  at  Amherst,  the  24th  of  October 
last,  of  remittent  fever,  and  is  buried  near  the  spot  where  she 
first  landed ;  and  "  they  have  put  up  a  small,  rude  fence 
around  the  grave,  to  protect  it  from  incautious  intrusion." 
There  lies,  enclosed  in  a  coffin,  the  form  of  her  I  so  much 
loved  —  the  wife  of  my  youth,  the  source  and  centre  of  my 
domestic  happiness. 

She  had  just  built  a  small  house,  and  moved  into  it  three 
weeks  before  she  was  taken  ill ;  and  she  writes,  "  May  God 
preserve  and  bless  you,  and  restore  you  in  safety  to  your  old 
and  new  home,  is  the  prayer  of  your  affectionate  Ann." 
Alas  !  the  new  home  only  remains  for  me  ;  my  old  home  is 
broken  up  forever.  Even  little  Maria  is  too  young  to  recog- 
nize her  papa,  and,  before  I  see  her,  will  have  forgotten  her 
mamma,  who  loved  her  so  much,  and  took  such  care  of  her. 
Ah,  little,  ungrateful  babe,  who  will  ever  love  you  like  your 
own  mamma,  whom  you  have  so  soon  forgotten  ?  Let  us  go, 
my  child,  to  her  grave,  and  plant  some  flowers  there,  and 
water  them  with  our  tears,  and  wait  for  her  resurrection  at 
the  last  day ;  for  her  spirit  has  been  conveyed  by  angels  to 
Abraham's  bosom,  and  is  now  existing  in  paradise  with  the 
spirits  of  the  just  made  perfect.  And  she  will  come  again, 
and  resume  the  form  which  now  moulders  in  the  grave. 
Then  she  will  be  bright  as  the  sun,  beautiful  as  an  angel, 
immortal  as  the  Saviour.  And  all  of  us  who  are  entitled  to 
immortality  by  a  union  to  the  same  immortal  Head  will  live 
together  with  her  in  the  enjoyment  of  everlastmg  life. 

We  will  not,  then,  mourn  as  those  who  have  no  hope ;  "  for 
if  we  believe  that  Jesus  died  and  rose  again,  even  so  them 
also  that  sleep  in  Jesus  will  God  bring  with  him." 


416  MEMOIR    OF    DR.   JUDSON. 

Yet,  notwithstanding  the  consolations  of  the  gospel,  grief 
claims  its  right,  and  tears  their  course  ;  and  I  must  subscribe 
myself 

Your  brother,  in  the  deepest  sorrow, 

A.  JuDSON,  Jr. 

To  tJie  Corresponding  Secretary ,  Rev.  Dr.  Bolles. 

Ata,  December  7,  1826. 

Rev.  and  dear  Sir.:  My  last  was  dated  at  Rangoon, 
while  waiting  to  accompany  the  embassy  to  Ava.  We  were 
detained  until  the  1st  of  September,  and  arrived  here  the 
28th,  though  w^e  were  not  admitted  to  an  audience  with  the 
king  till  the  20tli  of  the  ensuing  month. 

In  the  very  commencement  of  negotiations,  I  ascertained 
that  it  w^ould  be  impossible  to  effect  any  thing  in  favor  of  re- 
ligious toleration,  in  consequence  of  the  extraordinary  ground 
assumed  by  the  Burmese  commissioners.  Reluctant  as  the 
government  has  ever  been  to  enter  into  any  stipulations  with 
a  foreign  power,  they  resolved  to  do  nothing  more  than  they 
were  obliged  to  by  the  treaty  of  Yandabo ;  and  as  that  re- 
quired them  to  make  a  "  commercial  treaty,"  they  resolved  to 
confine  the  discussions  to  points  strictly  commercial ;  so  that, 
instead  of  a  treaty  of  twenty-two  articles,  calculated  to  place 
the  relations  of  tlie  two  countries  on  the  most  liberal  and 
friendly  footing,  the  treaty  just  concluded  is  confined  to  four, 
and  those  utterly  insignificant. 

So  far,  therefore,  as  I  had  a  view  to  the  attainment  of  reli- 
gious toleration  in  accompanying  the  embassy,  I  have  entirely 
failed.  I  feel  the  disappointment  more  deeply  on  account  of 
the  many  tedious  delays  which  have  already  occurred,  and 
which  we  anticipate  during  our  return ;  so  that,  instead  of 
four  or  five  months,  I  shall  be  absent  from  home  seven  or 
eight. 

But,  above  all,  the  news  of  the  death  of  my  beloved  wife 
has  not  only  thrown  a  gloom  over  all  my  future  prospects, 
but  has  forever  imbittered  my  recollections  of  the  present 
journey,  in  consequence  of  wliich  I  have  been  absent  from 


DEATH    OF    MRS.    JUDSON.  417 

her  dying  bed,  and  prevented  from  affording  the  spiritual 
comfort  which  her  lonely  circumstances  peculiarly  required, 
and  of  contributing  to  avert  the  fatal  catastrophe  which  has 
deprived  me  of  one  of  the  first  of  women,  the  best  of  wives. 

I  commend  myself  and  motherless  child  to  your  sympathy 
and  prayers,  and  remain 

Yours,  in  the  deepest  sorrow, 

A.  JuDSON,  Jr. 

To  Mrs.  Hasseltme,  of  Bradford,  Mass. 

AvA,  December  7,  1826. 

Dear  Mother  IIasseltine  :  This  letter,  though  in- 
tended for  the  whole  family,  I  address  particularly  to  you ; 
for  it  is  a  mother's  heart  that  will  be  most  deeply  interested 
in  its  melancholy  details.  I  propose  to  give  you,  at  different 
times,  some  account  of  my  great,  irreparable  loss,  of  which 
you  will  have  heard  before  receiving  this  letter. 

I  left  your  daughter,  my  beloved  wife,  at  Amherst,  the  5  th 
of  July  last,  in  good  health,  comfortably  situated,  happy  in 
being  out  of  the  reach  of  our  savage  oppressors,  and  animated 
in  prospect  of  a  field  of  missionary  labor  opening  under  the 
auspices  of  British  protection.  It  affords  me  some  comfort 
that  she  not  only  consented  to  my  leaving  her,  for  the  purpose 
of  joining  the  present  embassy  to  Ava,  but  uniformly  gave 
her  advice  in  favor  of  the  measure,  whenever  I  hesitated  con- 
cerning my  duty.  Accordingly  I  left  her.  On  the  5th  of 
July  I  saw  her  for  the  last  time.  Our  parting  was  much 
less  painful  than  many  others  had  been.  We  had  been 
preserved  through  so  many  trials  and  vicissitudes,  that  a 
separation  of  three  or  four  months,  attended  with  no  hazards 
to  either  party,  seemed  a  liglit  thing.  We  parted,  therefore, 
with  cheerful  hearts,  confident  of  a  speedy  reunion,  and 
indulging  fond  anticipations  of  future  years  of  domestic 
happiness.  After  my  return  to  Rangoon,  and  subsequent 
arrival  at  Ava,  I  received  several  letters  from  her,  written  in 
her  usual  style,  and  exhibiting  no  subject  of  regret  or  appre- 
hension, except  the  dechning  health  of  our  little  daughter, 


418  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSOX. 

Maria.  Her  last  was  dated  the  14th  of  September.  She 
says,  "  I  have  this  day  moved  into  the  new  house,  and,  for  the 
first  time  since  we  were  broken  up  at  Ava,  feel  myself  at 
home.  The  house  is  large  and  convenient,  and  if  you  were 
here  I  should  feel  quite  happy.  The  native  population  is 
increasing  very  fast,  and  things  wear  rather  a  favorable 
aspect.  Moung  Ing's  school  has  commenced  with  ten  scholars, 
and  more  are  expected.  Poor  little  Maria  is  still  feeble.  I 
sometimes  hope  she  is  getting  better  ;  then  again  she  declines 
to  her  former  weakness.  When  I  ask  her  where  papa  is,  she 
always  starts  up,  and  points  towards  the  sea.  The  servants 
behave  very  well,  and  I  have  no  trouble  about  any  thing,  ex- 
cepting you  and  Maria.  Pray  take  care  of  yourself,  par- 
ticularly as  it  regards  the  intermittent  fever  at  Ava.  May 
God  preserve  and  bless  you,  and  restore  you  in  safety  to  your 
new  and  old  home,  is  the  prayer  of  your  afFectionate  Ann." 

On  the  3d  of  October,  Captain  F.,  civil  superintendent  of 
Amherst,  writes,  "Mrs.  Judson  is  extremely  welh"  Why 
she  did  not  write  herself  by  the  same  opportunity,  I  know  not. 
On  the  18th,  the  same  gentleman  Avrites,  "I  can  hardly  think 
it  right  to  tell  you  that  Mrs.  Judson  has  had  an  attack  of 
fever,  as  before  this  reaches  you  she  will,  I  sincerely  trust,  be 
quite  well,  as  it  has  not  been  so  severe  as  to  reduce  her. 
This  was  occasioned  by  too  close  attendance  on  the  child. 
However,  her  cares  have  been  rewarded  in  a  most  extraor- 
dinary manner,  as  the  poor  babe  at  one  time  was  so  reduced 
that  no  rational  hope  could  be  entertained  of  its  recovery ; 
but  at  present  a  most  favorable  change  has  taken  place,  and 
she  has  improved  wonderfully.  Mrs.  Judson  had  no  fever  last 
night,  so  that  the  intermission  is  now  complete."  The  tenor 
of  this  letter  was  such  as  to  make  my  mind  quite  easy,  both  as 
it  regarded  the  mother  and  the  child.  My  next  communica- 
tion was  a  letter  with  a  black  seal,  handed  me  by  a  person, 
saying  he  was  sorry  to  have  to  inform  me  of  the  death  of  the 
child.  I  know  not  whether  this  was  a  mistake  on  his  part,  or 
kindly  intended  to  prepare  my  mind  for  the  real  intelligence. 
I  went  into  my  room,  and  opened  the  letter  with  feelings  of 


DEATH    OF    MRS.    JUDSON.  419 

gratitude  and  joy,  that  at  any  rate  the  mother  was  spared.  It 
was  from  Mr.  B.,  assistant  superintendent  of  Amherst,  dated 
the  26th  of  October,  and  began  thus  :  — 

My  dear  Sir:  To  one  who  has  suffered  so  much,  and  with 
such  exemplary  fortitude,  there  needs  but  Utile  preface  to  tell  a  tale 
of  distress.  It  were  cruel  indeed  to  torture  you  with  doubt  and 
suspense.  To  sum  up  the  unhappy  tidings  in  a  few  Avords,  Mrs. 
Judson  is  no  more. 

At  intervals  I  got  through  with  the  dreadful  letter,  and  pro- 
ceed to  give  you  the  substance  as  indelibly  engraven  on  my 
heart :  — 

Early  in  the  month  she  was  attacked  with  a  most  violent  fever. 
From  the  first  she  felt  a  strong  presentiment  that  she  should  not 
recover,  and  on  the  24th,  about  eight  in  the  evening,  she  expired. 
Dr.  R.  was  quite  assiduous  in  his  attentions,  both  as  friend  and 
physician.  Captain  F.  procured  her  the  services  of  a  European 
woman  from  the  45th  regiment ;  and  be  assured  all  was  done  that 
could  be  done  to  comfort  her  in  her  sufferings,  and  to  smooth  the 
passage  to  the  grave.  We  all  deeply  feel  the  loss  of  this  excellent 
lady,  whose  shortness  of  residence  among  us  was  yet  sufficiently 
long  to  impress  us  with  a  deep  sense  of  her  worth  and  virtues.  It 
was  not  until  about  the  20th  that  Dr.  R.  began  seriously  to  suspect 
danger.  Before  that  period  the  fever  had  abated  at  intervals  ;  but 
its  last  approach  baffled  all  medical  skill.  On  the  morning  of  the 
28d,  Mrs.  Judson  spoke  for  the  last  time.  The  disease  had  then 
completed  its  conquest,  and  from  that  time  up  to  the  moment  of 
dissolution,  she  lay  nearly  motionless,  and  apparently  quite  insensible. 
Yesterday  morning  I  assisted  in  the  last  melancholy  office  of  putting 
her  mortal  remains  in  the  coffin,  and  in  the  evening  her  funeral  was 
attended  by  all  the  European  officers  now  resident  here.  We  have 
buried  her  near  the  spot  where  she  first  landed,  and  I  have  put 
up  a  small,  rude  fence  around  the  grave,  to  protect  it  from  incau- 
tious intrusions.  Your  little  girl,  Maria,  is  much  better.  Mrs.  W. 
has  taken  charge  of  her,  and  I  hope  she  will  continue  to  thrive 
under  her  care. 

Two  days  later,  Captain  Fenwick  writes  thus  to  a  friend  in 
Rangoon :  — 


420  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

I  trust  that  you  will  be  able  to  find  means  to  inform  our  friend 
of  the  dreadful  loss  he  has  suffered.  Mrs.  Judson  had  slight  attacks 
of  fever  from  the  8th  or  9th  instant,  but  we  had  no  reason  to  appre- 
hend the  fatal  result.  I  saw  her  on  the  18th,  and  at  that  time  she 
was  free  from  fever,  scarcely,  if  at  all,  reduced.  I  was  obliged  to 
go  up  the  country  on  a  sudden  business,  and  did  not  hear  of  her 
danger  until  my  return  on  the  24th,  on  which  day  she  breathed  her 
last,  at  8  P.  M.  I  shall  not  attempt  to  give  you  an  account  of  the 
gloom  which  the  death  of  this  most  amiable  woman  has  thrown  over 
our  small  society.  You,  who  were  so  well  acquainted  with  her, 
must  feel  her  loss  more  deeply  ;  but  we  had  just  known  her  long 
enough  to  value  her  acquaintance  as  a  blessing  in  this  remote 
corner.  I  dread  the  effect  it  will  have  on  poor  Judson.  I  am  sure 
you  Avill  take  every  care  that  this  mournful  intelligence  may  be 
opened  to  him  as  carefully  as  possible. 

The  only  other  communication  on  this  subject,  that  has 
reached  me,  is  the  following  line  from  vSir  Archibald  Campbell 
to  the  envoy  :  "  Poor  Judson  will  be  dreadfully  distressed 
at  the  loss  of  his  good  and  amiable  wife.  She  died  the  other 
<3aj  at  Amherst,  of  remittent  fever,  eighteen  days  ill." 

You  perceive  that  I  have  no  account  whatever  of  the  state 
of  her  mind,  in  view  of  death  and  eternity,  or  of  her  wishes 
concerning  her  darling  babe,  whom  she  loved  most  intensely. 
I  hope  to  glean  some  information  on  these  points  from  the 
physician  who  attended  her,  and  the  native  converts  who  must 
have  been  occasionally  present. 

I  will  not  trouble  you,  my  dear  mother,  with  an  account  of 
my  own  private  feelings  —  the  bitter,  heart-rending  anguish, 
which  for  some  days  would  admit  of  no  mitigation,  and  the 
comfort  which  the  gospel  subsequently  afforded  —  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  which  brings  life  and  immortality  to  light. 
Blessed  assurance,  —  and  let  us  apply  it  afresh  to  our  hearts, 
—  that,  while  I  am  writing  and  you  perusing  these  lines,  her 
spirit  is  resting  and  rejoicing  in  the  heavenly  paradise,  — 

"  Whore  glories  shine,  and  pleasures  roll 
That  cliarm,  delight,  transpori  the  soul ; 
And  every  panting  wish  shall  be 
Possessed  of  boundless  bliss  in  thee." 


KETLUX    TO    AMHKKST.  421 

And  there,  my  dear  motlier,  we  also  shall  soon  be,  uniting 
and  participating  in  tiie  felicities  of  heaven  with  her  for  whom 
we  now  mourn.     "  Amen.     Even  so,  come,  Lord  Jesus." 

Ajniherst,  February  4,  1827. 

Amid  the  desolation  that  death  has  made,  I  take  up  my  pen 
once  more  to  address  the  mother  of  my  beloved  Ann.  I  am 
sitting  in  the  house  she  built,  in  the  room  where  she  breathed 
her  last,  and  at  a  window  from  which  I  see  the  tree  that 
stands  at  the  head  of  her  grave,  and  the  top  of  the  "  small 
rude  fence "  which  they  have  put  up  "  to  protect  it  from 
incautious  intrusion." 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Wade  are  living  in  the  house,  having  arrived 
here  about  a  month  after  Ann's  death  ;  and  Mrs.  Wade  has 
taken  charge  of  my  poor  motherless  Maria.  I  was  unable  to 
get  any  accounts  of  the  child  at  Rangoon ;  and  it  was  only  on 
my  arriving  here,  the  24th  ultimo,  that  I  learned  she  was  still 
alive.  Mr.  Wade  met  me  at  the  landing-place,  and  as  I  passed 
on  to  the  house,  one  and  another  of  the  native  Christians  came 
out,  and  when  they  saw  me  they  began  to  weep.  At  length 
we  reached  the  house ;  and  I  almost  expected  to  see  my  love 
coming  out  to  meet  me,  as  usual.  But  no  ;  I  saw  only  in  the 
arms  of  Mrs.  Wade  a  poor  little  puny  child,  who  could  not  recog- 
nize her  weeping  father,  and  from  whose  infant  mind  had  long 
been  erased  all  recollection  of  the  mother  who  loved  her  so  much. 

She  turned  au'ay  from  me  in  alarm,  and  I,  obliged  to  seek 
comfort  elsewhere,  found  my  way  to  the  grave.  But  who  ever 
obtained  comfort  there  ?  Thence  I  went  to  the  house,  in  which 
I  left  her,  and  looked  at  the  spot  where  we  last  knelt  in  prayer, 
and  where  we  exchanged  the  parting  kiss. 

The  doctor  who  attended  her  has  removed  to  another  sta- 
tion, and  the  only  information  I  can  obtain  is  such  as  the 
native  Christians  are  able  to  communicate. 

It  seems  that  her  head  was  much  affected  during  her 
last  days,  and  she  said  but  little.  She  sometimes  com- 
plained thus :  "  The  teacher  is  long  in  coming ;  and  the  new 
missionaries  are  long  in  coming  ;  I  must  die  alone,  and  leave 

VOL.    I.  06 


422  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

my  little  one ;  but  as  it  is  the  will  of  God,  I  acquiesce  in  his 
will.  I  am  not  afraid  of  death,  but  I  am  afraid  I  shall  not  be 
able  to  bear  these  pains.  Tell  the  teacher  that  the  disease 
was  most  violent,  and  I  could  not  write  ;  tell  him  how  I  suffered 
and  died ;  tell  him  all  that  you  see ;  and  take  care  of  the 
house  and  things  until  he  returns."  When  she  was  unable  to 
notice  any  thing  else,  she  would  still  call  the  child  to  her,  and 
charge  the  nurse  to  be  kind  to  it,  and  indulge  it  in  every 
thing,  until  its  father  shall  return.  The  last  day  or  two,  she 
lay  almost  senseless  and  motionless,  on  one  side,  her  head 
reclining  on  her  arm,  her  eyes  closed ;  and  at  eight  in  the 
evening,  with  one  exclamation  of  distress  in  the  Burman  lan- 
guage, she  ceased  to  breathe. 

February  7.  I  have  been  on  a  visit  to  the  physician  who 
attended  her  in  her  illness.  He  has  the  character  of  a  kind, 
attentive,  and  skilful  practitioner ;  and  his  communications  to 
me  have  been  rather  consoling.  I  am  now  convinced  that 
every  thing  possible  was  done,  and  that,  had  I  been  present 
myself,  I  could  not  have  essentially  contributed  to  avert  the 
fatal  termination  of  the  disease.  The  doctor  was  with  her 
twice  a  day,  and  frequently  spent  the  greater  part  of  the  night 
by  her  side.  He  says  that,  from  the  first  attack  of  the  fever, 
she  was  persuaded  she  should  not  recover ;  but  that  her  mind 
Avas  uniformly  tranquil  and  happy  in  the  prospect  of  death. 
She  only  expressed  occasional  regret  at  leaving  lier  child,  and 
the  native  Christian  schools,  before  her  husband,  or  another 
missionary  family,  could  arrive.  The  last  two  days  she  was 
free  from  pain.  On  her  attention  being  roused  by  reiterated 
questions,  she  replied,  "  I  feel  quite  well,  only  very  weak." 
These  were  her  last  words. 

The  doctor  is  decidedly  of  opinion  that  the  fatal  termination 
of  the  fever  is  not  to  be  ascribed  to  the  localities  of  the  new 
settlement,  but  chiefly  to  the  weakness  of  her  constitution, 
occasioned  by  the  severe  privations  and  long-protracted  suffer- 
ings she  endured  at  Ava.  O,  with  what  meekness,  and  patience, 
and  magnanimity,  and  Christian  fortitude,  she  bore  those  suffer- 
ings !     And  can  I  wish  they  had  been  less  ?     Can  I   sacri- 


ADDITIONAL  hf:lpeks.  423 

legiously  wish  to  rob  lier  crown  of  a  single  gem  ?  Much  she 
saw  and  suffered  of  the  evil  of  this  evil  world,  and  eminently 
was  she  qualified  to  relish  and  enjoy  the  pure  and  holy  rest 
into  which  she  has  entered.  True,  she  has  been  taken  from 
a  sphere  in  which  she  was  singulnrly  qualified,  by  her  natural 
disposition,  her  winning  manners,  her  devoted  zeal,  and  her 
perfect  acquaintance  with  the  language,  to  be  extensively 
serviceable  to  the  cause  of  Christ ;  true,  she  has  been  torn  from 
her  husband's  bleeding  heart,  and  from  her  darling  babe  ;  but 
hifinite  wisdom  and  love  have  presided,  as  ever,  in  this  most 
afflicting  dispensation.  Faith  decides  that  it  is  all  right,  and 
the  decision  of  faith  eternity  will  soon  confirm. 

I  have  only  time  to  add  —  for  I  am  writing  in  great  haste, 
with  very  short  notice  of  the  present  opportunity  of  sending  to 
Bengal  —  that  poor  little  Maria,  though  very  feeble,  is,  I  hope, 
recovering  from  her  long  illness.  She  began  indeed  to  recov- 
er, while  under  the  care  of  the  lady  who  kindly  took  charge 
of  her,  at  her  mother's  death  ;  but  when,  after  Mr.  Wade's 
arrival,  she  was  brought  back  to  this  house,  she  seemed  to 
think  that  she  had  returned  to  her  former  home,  and  had 
found  in  Mrs.  Wade  her  own  mother.  And  certainly  the 
most  tender,  affectionate  care  is  not  wanting  to  confirm  her  in 
this  idea. 

I  remain,  my  dear  mother. 

Yours,  in  the  deepest  sorrow, 

A.  JuDsoN,  Jr. 

Dr.  Judi^on  returned  to  Amherst  January  24,  1827, 
and  joined  the  family  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Wade,  who 
had  arrived  there  November  23,  1826,  about  a  month 
after  Mrs.  Judson's  death.  Mrs.  Wade  had  assumed 
the  charge  of  the  feeble  infant,  and  she  watched  over 
it  with  a  mother's  fondness  until  its  brief  course  was 
completed.  On  the  7th  of  April,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Board- 
man  joined  the  mission.  The  health  of  Mrs.  Board- 
man,  however,  soon  rendered  it  necessary  for  them  to 
proceed   to    Maulmain    for  medical   advice.     It   was 


424  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

found  desirable  to  establish  a  branch  of  the  mission 
in  that  place,  and  they  remained  for  that  purpose. 
The  fortunes  of  Amherst  continuing  to  decline,  Dr. 
Judson,  in  August,  removed  thither.  In  November, 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Wade,  with  the  native  Christians  at 
Amherst,  followed  them  ;  and  henceforward  Maulmain 
became  the  chief  seat  of  the  Burman  mission. 

The  work  which  had  been  so  prosperously  com- 
menced at  Rangoon  had  now  to  be  done  over  again. 
A  few  of  the  converts,  whom  war  and  the  cholera  had 
spared,  were  gathered  around  them  ;  but  to  the  popula- 
tion at  large  the  missionaries  were  entire  strangers. 
They  were  wild  Burmans,  such  as  they  had  at  first  met 
at  Rangoon.  There  were,  however,  now  several  Eu- 
ropean missionaries.  The  New  Testament  had  been 
translated,  and  portions  of  it,  together  with  several 
tracts,  had  been  printed.  A  spirit  of  Christian  zeal 
had  manifested  itself  among  some  of  the  converts, 
which  gave  good  promise  of  success.  The  work  of 
preaching  the  gospel  was  recommenced,  and,  as  before, 
converts  were  added  to  them  of  such  as  should  be 
saved.  These  events  are  narrated  at  large  in  the  fol- 
lowing journals  and  letters :  — 

Dr.  Judson' s  Journal. 

January  24,  1827.  Arrived  at  Amherst,  and  detached 
myself  from  the  suite  of  the  envoy.  Was  happy  to  find  that 
INIr.  and  Mrs.  Wade  had  previously  arrived,  and  were  occu- 
pying the  house  built  by  Mrs.  Judson.  Mrs.  Wade  had  also 
taken  charge  of  my  daughter  Maria,  now  two  years  old.  As 
I  passed  from  the  landing-place  to  the  house,  the  native 
Christians  came  out  to  meet  me,  and  they  welcomed  me  with 
the  voice  of  lamentation ;  for  my  presence  reminded  them  of 
the  great  loss  they  had  sustained  in  the  death  of  Mrs.  Judson. 
There  are  four  only  in  the  place,  Moung  Shwa-ba  and  Moung 


BURMESE    WORSHIP    RECOMMENCED.  425 

Ing,  Mah  Men-la  and  Mali  Doke.  The  rest  of  the  baptized 
are  scattered  in  different  parts  of  th'e  country.  The  teacher 
Moung  Shwa-gnong  died  of  the  cholera,  on  his  way  down 
from  Ava,  at  the  close  of  the  war.  Three  of  the  disciples 
remained  in  Rangoon,  until  the  place  was  evacuated  by  the 
British,  and  then  failed  in  their  attempts  to  obtain  a  passage 
hither. 

On  our  way  we  stopped  a  few  days  at  Rangoon.  The  place 
was  invested  by  the  Peguans,  who  have  raised  the  standard 
of  rebellion,  and  taken  possession  of  several  towns  in  the 
lower  part  of  the  country.  From  one  of  the  highest  roofs 
within  the  stockade  I  obtained  a  view  of  the  mission  house, 
which  afforded  us  shelter  so  many  years.  It  is  now  quite 
in  ruins,  nothing  remaining  but  the  posts  and  part  of  the  roof. 
All  the  houses  in  the  suburbs,  and  by  the  river  side,  are  com- 
pletely swept  away.  It  is  not  probable,  however,  that  the 
Peguans  will  succeed  in  establishing  their  independence,  or 
even  in  getting  possession  of  Rangoon. 

We  find  Amherst  in  a  state  of  decay,  owing  to  Sir  Archi- 
bald Campbell  having  fixed  his  head  quarters  at  Maulmain, 
twenty-five  miles  up  the  river.  Most  of  the  Burmese  emi- 
grants have  settled  in  that  vicinity.  But  as  the  river  is  not 
navigable  for  vessels  of  any  size,  Amherst  must  be  the  port, 
and  as  soon  as  it  receives  the  fostering  care  of  government, 
will  probably  become  a  flourishing  town. 

January  28,  Lord's  day.  This  day  I  recommenced  worship 
in  Burmese,  after  an  intermission  of  two  years  and  a  half. 
About  twenty  persons  were  present,  and  among  the  rest  Mah 
Loon-byay,  wife  of  a  French  trader  from  Rangoon,  settled  in 
this  place.  She  has  been  for  some  months  in  the  habit  of 
meeting  with  the  native  Christians,  for  the  purpose  of  worship. 

February  3.  Attended  the  funeral  of  Abby,  daughter  of 
Moung  Shwa-ba.  She  and  her  elder  sister,  Mary,  were  the 
first  girls  with  which  Mrs.  Judson  commenced  the  female 
school,  previous  to  the  late  war.  They  have  been  with  us 
ever  since.  Mrs.  Wade  intends  to  go  on  with  the  school,  and 
has  now  several  girls  under  her  care. 
36* 


426  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

February  4,  Lord's  day.  Worship  as  last  Lord's  day. 
Commenced  commenting  on  the  epitome  of  the  Old  Testa- 
ment. In  the  evening  administered  the  Lord's  supper.  Seven 
communicants  present. 

February  10.  A  few  days  ago,  went  up  to  Maulmain,  to 
pay  my  respects  to  Sir  Archibald  Campbell,  and  also  to  obtain 
an  interview  with  Dr.  R.,  who  attended  Mrs.  Judson  in  her 
last  illness.  Sir  Archibald  encourages  our  removing  to  his 
favorite  station ;  but  as  we  are  already  settled  here,  we  feel 
disposed  to  wait  a  little,  until  we  see  what  the  supreme  gov- 
ernment intends  to  do  for  the  place. 

February  11,  Lord's  day.  After  worship,  had  some  par- 
ticular conversation  with  Mah  Loon-byay,  who  intimated  her 
wish  to  become  a  full  disciple  by  being  baptized.  Endeavored 
to  explain  to  her  the  necessity  of  the  new  birth,  without  which 
baptism  would  avail  her  nothing. 

February  13.  At  the  evening  meeting,  which  is  attended 
by  the  native  Christians  Tuesdays  and  Fridays,  Moung  Ing 
expressed  his  desire  to  undertake  a  missionary  excursion  to 
Tavoy  and  Mergui.  We  were  all  particularly  pleased  with 
the  proposal,  as  originating  with  himself,  and  indicating  a  state 
of  mind  particularly  favorable  to  the  spread  of  the  gospel. 

February  25,  Lord's  day.  After  the  usual  worship,  we 
set  apart  Moung  Ing  for  the  work  to  which  we  trust  he  is 
called  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  appointing  him  a  preacher  of  the 
gospel  and  teacher  of  the  Christian  religion,  without  the 
charge  of  any  church  or  power  to  administer  the  ordinances  — 
an  appointment  similar  to  that  which,  in  our  churches,  com- 
monly precedes  ordination  as  a  pastor  or  evangelist,  in  the 
higher  sense  of  the  word.  And  being  thus  commended  to  the 
grace  of  God,  he  embarked  on  a  native  boat  bound  to  Tavoy. 
May  the  divine  Spirit  accompany,  and  guide,  and  prosper  the 
first  Burman  preacher  we  have  ever  sent  forth. 

March  13.  Received  a  letter  from  Moung  Ing,  dated  the 
2d  instant,  informing  us  of  his  arrival  at  Tavoy,  five  days  from 
this  place,  and  of  his  attempt  to  communicate  the  gospel  to 
the  boat  people,  who  listened  in  silence,  without  contradicting 
or  revilinii. 


IIOI'KFL'L     INC^inUKKS.  427 

A))ril  14.  We  liave  been  much  occupied  of  Lite  in  complet- 
ing the  mat  houses  which  Mrs.  Judson  had  begun,  and  in 
clearing  away  the  trees  and  underwood  in  the  vicinity  of"  the 
mission  premises.  We  have  now  room  for  myself  and  broth- 
er Wade's  family,  and  have  nearly  finished  a  house  for  the 
female  school,  which  will  also  afford  temporary  accommodation 
for  brother  Boardman's  family  on  their  first  arrival. 

The  case  of  Mah  Loon-byay  has  become  very  encour- 
aging. In  her  latest  conversation  with  Mrs.  Wade,  she  gave 
considerable  evidence  of  having  received  the  grace  of  God. 
One  of  !ier  daughters,  also,  about  twelve  years  old,  professes 
to  be  anxious  for  the  salvation  of  her  soul,  and  desirous  of  be- 
coming a  disciple  of  Jesus  Christ. 

A  letter  from  Moung  Ing  informs  us  that,  after  remaining  a 
few  days  at  Tavoy,  he  proceeded  by  sea  to  INIergui,  his  former 
residence.  He  met  with  a  favorable  reception  from  several 
at  Tavoy,  and  one  householder  said  it  would  be  a  good  plan  to 
build  a  zayat  by  the  wayside  for  the  preaching  of  the  gospel. 

April  20.  Returned  from  Maulmain,  whither  I  went  in 
quest  of  medical  aid  for  my  daughter,  accompanied  by  Mrs. 
Wade.  Happy  to  meet  with  Mr.  Boardman  and  family,  who 
had  arrived  during  our  absence. 

April  22,  Lord's  day.  Three  hopeful  inquirers,  beside  Mah 
Loon-byay,  deserve  notice  —  Moung  Dwah,  husband  of  Mah 
Doke,  Moung  Thah-pyoo,*  a  poor  man  belonging  to  Moung 
Shwa-ba,  and  Moung  Myat-poo,  son-in-law  of  a  Peguan 
chief,  who  emigrated  from  Rangoon  with  his  followers,  and 
died  in  this  place.  They  have  regularly  attended  worship  on 
Lord's  day,  and  thereby  manifested  some  regard  to  religion. 
At  the  close  of  the  discourse  to-day,  which  treated  of  the 
wisdom,  righteousness,  sanctification,  and  redemption  which 
Christ  is  to  all  believers,  Moung  Myat-poo  broke  out  into 
some  audible  expressions  of  satisfaction.  This  led  to  some 
conversation  after  worship,  in  which  he  professed  a  desire  to 
know  more  of  this  religion  ;  "  for,"  said  he,  "  the  more  I 
understand  it,  the  better  T  like  it." 

*  Ko-Thah-bvoo,  the  first  Karen  convert. 


428  MKMOIR    OF    Dll.    JUDSON. 

April  24.  My  little  daughter  Maria  breathed  her  last, 
aged  two  years  and  three  months,  and  her  emancipated  spirit 
fled,  I  trust,  to  the  arms  of  her  fond  mother. 

April  29,  Lord's  day.  In  consequence  of  the  funeral,  sev- 
eral of  our  Burmese  acquaintances  in  the  village  came  a  few- 
evenings  in  succession,  according  to  their  custom,  and  I  en- 
deavored to  improve  the  opportunity  in  preaching  to  them 
Jesus  Christ,  the  resurrection  and  the  life.  Three  respectable 
men,  friends  of  Moung  Myat-poo,  were  of  the  number.  They 
all  came  again  to-day,  and  attended  both  morning  and  evening 
worship.  They  profess  to  be  quite  convinced  of  the  truth  of 
the  Christian  religion,  but  I  fear  they  are  deficient  in  true 
repentance. 

April  -30.  A  letter  from  Moung  Ing  informed  us  of  his 
arrival  at  Mergui.  He  conducts  public  worship  every  Lord's 
day,  and  has  commonly  four  or  five  auditors,  some  of  whom 
also  attend  the  daily  family  worship.  His  present  residence 
being  very  obscure,  he  is  about  building  a  small  house  by  the 
wayside,  which  will  cost,  he  says,  fourteen  or  fifteen  rupees  ; 
and,  among  other  means  of  attracting  company,  he  proposes 
to  prepare  and  suspend  a  religious  writing  in  front  of  his 
house.  But,  he  adds,  while  man  devises,  God's  pleasure 
alone  will  be  accomplished ;  and  under  this  impression  he  de- 
sires to  persevere  in  his  work. 

May  6,  Lord's  day.  Had  a  long  conversation  with  Mah 
Loon-byay,  in  which  we  became  satisfied  that  she  is  a  subject 
of  renewing  grace.  She  received  her  first  religious  impres- 
sions in  Rangoon,  several  years  ago,  during  a  season  of  great 
domestic  afiliction,  when,  not  finding  any  comfort  at  the  Ro- 
man Cathohc  church,  to  which,  in  consequence  of  some  of  her 
ancestors  being  of  foreign  extraction,  she  considered  herself 
attached,  she  began  to  visit  at  the  mission  house.  After  her 
removal  to  Amherst,  lier  former  impressions  were  deepened ; 
and,  though  her  religious  experience  has  never  been  so  clear 
and  d(H'id(;d  as  that  of  some  others,  we  trust  that  she  is  a 
growing  Christian,  and  ought  to  be  admitted  to  those  sources 
of  nourishment  which  the  Great  Shepherd  has  provided  for 
the  sustenance  of  his  flock. 


DEATH    OF    HIS    ONLY    CHILD.  429 

Moung  Myat-poo,  mentioned  April  22  and  29,  wa?5,  as 
usual,  present  at  worship.  From  being  a  noisy,  talkative 
man,  of  assumed  airs  and  consequence,  he  has  become  quiet, 
and  modest,  and  docile.  Mah  Men-la,  who  lives  near  him, 
speaks  in  his  favor.  She  says  that,  ever  since  he  began  to  at- 
tend worship,  he  has  forsaken  the  habits  of  intemperance  he 
had  contracted,  and  spends  much  of  his  time  in  reading  our 
books  and  conversing  on  religious  subjects. 

May  8.  Returned  from  a  visit  to  brother  Boardman  at 
Maulmain,  who  went  up,  a  few  days  ago,  on  account  of  jNIrs. 
Boardman's  health,  and  now  thinks  of  remaining  there  for  the 
present.  Sir  Archibald  having  offered  us  ground  for  a  mis- 
sion station,  we  fixed  upon  a  site  about  three  quarters  of  a 
mile  south  of  the  military  cantonments,  commanding  a  view 
of  the  river,  and  contiguous  to  a  large  native  town. 

May  15.  In  the  evening,  at  the  stated  prayer  meeting,  the 
case  of  Mah  Loon-byay  was  laid  before  the  church,  and  we 
agreed  to  receive  her  into  fellowship,  on  being  baptized. 

May  20,  Lord's  day.  Mah  Loon-byay  w^as  accordingly 
baptized. 

May  26.  Brother  Boardman  and  family  have  been  with 
us  a  few  days,  during  which  we  have  discussed  many  points 
relative  to  our  missionary  operations,  and  made  some  arrange- 
ment concerningr  the  outward  affairs  of  the  mission. 


To  Mrs.  Hasseltine,  Bradford.  , 

Amherst,  April  26,  1827. 
Dear  Mother  Hasseltine  :  My  little  Maria  lies  by  the 
side  of  her  fond  mother.  The  complaint  to  which  she  was 
subject  several  months  proved  incurable.  She  had  the  best 
medical  advice ;  and  the  kind  care  of  Mrs.  Wade  could  not 
have  been,  in  any  respect,  exceeded  by  that  of  her  own  mother. 
But  all  our  efforts,  and  prayers,  and  tears  could  not  propitiate 
the  cruel  disease  ;  the  work  of  death  went  forward,  and  after 
the  usual  process,  excruciating  to  a  parent's  heart,  she  ceased 
to  breathe  on  the   24th   instant,  at  3  o'clock,  P.  M.,  aged 


430  MEMOIR    OF    DK.    JUDSON. 

two  years  and  three  months.  We  then  closed  her  faded  eyes, 
and  bound  up  her  discolored  lips,  where  the  dark  touch  of 
death  first  appeared,  and  folded  her  little  hands  on  her  cold 
breast.  The  next  morning  we  made  her  last  bed  in  the  small 
enclosure  that  surrounds  her  mother's  lonely  grave.  Together 
they  rest  in  hope,  under  the  hope  tree,  {hopid,)  which  stands 
at  the  head  of  the  graves  ;  and  together,  I  trust,  their  spirits 
are  rejoicing  after  a  short  separation  of  precisely  six  months. 
And  I  am  left  alone  in  the  wide  world.  My  own  dear 
family  I  have  buried ;  one  in  Rangoon,  and  two  in  Amherst. 
What  remains  for  me  but  to  hold  myself  in  readiness  to  fol- 
low the  dear  departed  to  that  blessed  world, 

«  Where  my  best  friends,  my  kindred,  dwell, 
Where  God,  my  Saviour,  reigns  "  ? 

I  remain,  my  dear  mother,  yours, 

A.   JuDSON. 

To  Rev.  D.  Sharp. 

Amheest,  May  5,  1827. 

My  dear  Sir:  You  are  doubtless  acquainted  with  the 
measures  we  have  taken  in  regard  to  the  formation  of  a  new 
mission  station  at  this  place. 

The  final  disposal  of  the  ceded  provinces  on  this  coast 
is  still  rather  uncertain,  the  question  having  been  referred  to 
the  decision  of  the  Court  of  Directors.  But  it  is  generally 
understood  that  the  Burmese  government  has  behaved  so  ill, 
since  the  war,  in  not  complying  with  the  terms  of  the  treaty, 
and  in  giving  the  envoy,  Mr.  Crawfurd,  a  most  ungracious  re- 
ception at  court,  that  these  provinces  cannot  be  restored  to 
their  former  masters,  and  that  the  difficulty  attending  their 
erection  into  an  independent  principality,  or  transferring 
them  to  any  neighboring  power,  will  render  their  final  reten- 
tion necessary,  though  the  British  government  uniformly  pro- 
fess their  reluctance  to  extend  their  Indian  territories. 

The  fate  of  this  port  is  still  more  dubious,  in  consequence 
of  Sir  Archibald  Campbell's  having  fixed  his  head  quarters  at 


PIIOSTKCTS    OF    AMIIEUST.  431 

Maulmain,  twenty-five  miles  up  tlie  river,  and  of  the  uncer- 
tainty whether  Mr.  Crawfurd,  or  any  person  interested  in  the 
prosperity  of  Amherst,  will  be  placed  in  civil  charge  here. 

When  I  first  determined  on  settling  here,  it  was  under- 
stood that  all  the  heads  of  government  were  unanimous  in 
the  purpose  of  making  this  the  capital  of  the  ceded  provinces; 
but  an  unhappy  misunderstanding  took  place  ;  and  though  this 
is  admitted  to  be  the  most  pleasant  place,  the  most  salubrious, 
the  most  centrical,  the  best,  and  indeed  the  only  port,  (for 
ships  cannot  go  up  the  river,)  Sir  Archibald  pronounced  Maul- 
main the  best  military  station,  and  the  whole  tide  of  Bur- 
mese emigration  has  flowed  thither. 

On  brother  Wade's  arrival,  and  my  return  from  Ava,  as 
we  had  a  house  here  which  Mrs.  Judson  had  begun,  we  con- 
tinued to  occupy  it,  and  wait  for  the  openings  of  Providence. 
On  brother  Boardman's  arrival,  he  had  occasion  to  go  up  to 
Maulmain  to  obtain  medical  assistance  for  Mrs.  Boardman, 
and  according  to  an  arrangement  we  have  made,  he  will  prob- 
ably remain  there  for  the  present.  Sir  Archibald  has  re- 
peatedly offered  us  ground  for  a  mission  station  ;  and  we  are 
pleased  with  havhig  a  footing  at  both  places,  that  we  may, 
with  greater  facility,  occupy  that  which  wall  become  the  per- 
manent seat  of  government,  or  perhaps  both,  if  the  native 
population  of  both,  and  other  circumstances,  shall  appear  to 
warrant  such  a  division  of  our  strength. 

The  expense  of  building  such  mat  houses  as  our  present 
necessities  require  is  not  large.  We  have  expended  about 
three  hundred  dollars  in  Amherst,  and  have  sufficient  accom- 
modation for  myself  and  brother  Wade's  family,  besides  a 
commodious  zayat  for  the  female  school.  And  even  this  ap- 
propriation has  not  been  made  from  the  funds  furnished  from 
America,  but  from  donations  made  us  for  the  express  purpose 
of  building.  Since  the  close  of  the  war,  I  have  been  able, 
from  money  paid  me  by  the  British  government,  presents 
lately  made  me  at  Ava,  and  donations  to  the  mission,  to  pay 
into  the  funds  of  the  board  above  four  thousand  dollars, 
which,  after  deducting  such  expenses  as  our  regulations  allow. 


432  MEMOIR     OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

together  with  the  last  donation  from  Madras,  I  have  remitted 
to  Mr.  Pearce,  of  Calcutta. 

The  long  interruption  of  our  missionary  work,  occasioned 
by  our  troubles  at  Ava,  the  domestic  calamities  which  have 
since  overwhelmed  me  in  quick  succession,  and  the  hitherto 
unfavorable  circumstances  of  Amherst,  have  operated  to  pre- 
vent my  returning  with  much  ardor  to  my  usual  occupations. 
I  am,  however,  endeavoring  to  do  a  little.  We  have  a  small 
assembly  of  twenty-five  or  thirty  on  Lord's  days,  and  our  daily 
family  worship  is  not  unfrequently  attended  by  a  few  inqui- 
rers. One  woman  desires  to  profess  our  religion,  and  has  lately 
given  some  satisfactory  evidence  that  she  is  sincere.  A  few 
respectable  men  declare  themselves  convinced  of  the  truth  of 
the  Christian  religion ;  but  we  discern  yet  no  traces  of  the  re- 
newing influences  of  the  Spirit  on  their  hearts. 

Three  only  of  the  Rangoon  converts  are  now  with  us.  The 
rest  are  dead  or  scattered  in  different  parts  of  the  country. 
So  far  as  I  have  been  able  to  ascertain  the  circumstances  of 
those  who  died  in  my  absence,  and  those  who  still  remain,  I 
believe  that,  with  the  exception  of  two,  who  were  excluded 
from  the  church  in  Rangoon  for  neglecting  to  attend  worship, 
none  of  the  baptized  have  disgraced  their  holy  profession.  I 
do  not,  of  course,  speak  of  two  or  three  cases  which  required 
temporary  church  discipline. 

Moung  Ing  lately  went  on  a  mission  to  Mergui,  (Bike,)  the 
place  of  his  former  residence,  where  he  has  set  up  Christian 
worship,  and  has,  he  writes  me,  several  inquirers. 

I  commend  my  sorrows  to  your  sympathetic  remembrance, 
and,  begging  an  interest  in  your  prayers,  remain, 
My  dear  sir. 

Yours  faithfully, 

A.  JuDSON. 

To  the  Corresponding  Secretary. 

Amherst,  June  21,  1827. 
Rev.  and   dear  Sir  :   "When  brother  Boardman  was  last 
here,  we  were  on  the  point  of  writing  a  joint  letter,  recom- 


TENASSEllIM    PliOVINCES.  433 

mending  a  reenforcement  of  missionaries  to  be  sent  out  to 
these  provinces.  But  it  then  remained  doubtful  whether  Mr. 
Crawfurd,  the  late  envoy  to  Ava,  and  the  founder  of  Amherst, 
would  be  appointed  to  the  government  of  this  place  —  a  meas- 
ure which  we  considered  indicative  of  the  intention  of  the 
supreme  government  of  Bengal,  so  far  as  the  question  rests 
with  them,  to  retain  this  part  of  the  ceded  provinces.  We 
have  now  ascertained  that  he  is  appointed,  and  may  be  ex- 
pected here  in  a  few  weeks.  This  circumstance,  together 
with  the  present  state  of  negotiation  between  the  British  and 
Burmese  governments,  too  tedious  to  be  detailed,  and  a  va- 
riety of  other  considerations,  render  it  quite  certain  in  our 
minds  that  these  provinces,  at  least  the  seaports,  will  be  per- 
manently annexed  to  the  territories  of  the  East  India  Com- 
pany. 

In  this  view  we  recommend  them,  as  a  very  promising 
field  of  missionary  labor. 

The  principal  towns  are  Maulmain,  Amherst,  Yay,  Tavoy, 
and  Mergui.  Maulmain  itself  contains  a  native  population 
of  fifteen  or  twenty  thousand.  Amherst  is  still  small.  Yay 
contains  perhaps  three  thousand,  but  no  census  has  yet  been 
taken.  Tavoy  contains,  according  to  the  census,  eight  thou- 
sand ;  the  whole  district  twenty-five  thousand.  Mergui  con- 
tains three  thousand,  and  the  adjoining  villages  about  the  same 
number.  It  is  not,  however,  the  immediate  population  that 
we  would  insist  on,  but  the  consideration  that,  while  these 
provinces  contain  a  population  sufficient  for  all  missionary  op- 
erations, they  are  really  as  much  a  part  of  Burmah  as  Ran- 
goon or  Ava ;  and  therefore  it  is  to  be  hoped  that  the  influence 
of  the  gospel  preached  here  will  ultimately  be  felt  through  the 
whole  country. 

The  climate  of  all  this  coast  is  decidedly  salubrious ;  more 
so,  perhaps,  than  any  other  part  of  India ;  and  communica- 
tion will  always  be  maintained  with  Bengal,  by  way  of  Am- 
herst. 

In  regard  to  'the  number  required,  we  should  say  not  less 
than  three.  Five  could  be  disposed  of  to  the  greatest  advan- 
VOL.  I.  37 


434  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

tage,  namely,  two  at  Tavoy,  two  at  Mergui  or  Yay,  and  one 
more  at  Maulmain. 

We  remain, 

Rev.  and  dear  sir, 

Yours  faithfully, 

A.  JUDSON. 

J.  Wade. 

P.  S.  We  cannot  wait  to  communicate  with  brother  Board- 
man  without  losing  the  present  opportunity  of  sending  to  Ben- 
gal, which,  we  are  told,  is  the  last  that  will  occur  for  some 
time.  We  know  that  his  sentiments  on  the  subject  of  this  let- 
ter perfectly  accord  with  ours. 

Second  postscript.  Siam  is  also  a  noble  field  for  missions. 
The  capital,  Bangkok,  is  only  twenty  miles  from  the  sea,  and 
is  itself  a  port.  Constant  communication  is  maintained  with 
Singapore,  just  at  the  extremity  of  the  Siamese  and  Malayan 
peninsula ;  and  between  Singapore  and  Bengal  ships  are  con- 
stantly passing.  See  "  Singapore,"  in  Chapin's  Missionary 
Gazetteer. 

Bangkok  is  now  unoccupied,  but  the  London  Independents 
are  looking  that  way. 

I  know  not  what  to  say  about  the  coast  of  Arracan,  it  has 
proved  so  extremely  unhealthy.  Sandoway,  however,  is  said 
to  be  salubrious ;  and  other  places,  when  cleared  and  settled, 
will  doubtless  be  so.  It  was  rumored  that  the  insalubrity  of 
the  climate  would  occasion  the  country  being  delivered  up  to 
the  Burmese,  or  erected  into  a  separate  principality ;  but  the 
new  title  of  the  governor  general,  Earl  of  Arracan,  shows  that, 
at  home,  they  value  the  acquisition. 

Dr.  Morrison  wrote,  many  years  ago,  that  an  American 
mission,  in  his  opinion,  would  be  less  suspected  in  China  than 
an  English  one.  The  Chinese  perfectly  understood  the  dif- 
ference between  the  two  nations ;  and  the  trade  with  America 
is  direct,  furnishing  means  of  constant  communication. 

I  had  the  honor  of  submitting  these  considerations,  many 
years  ago,  to  the  former  board,  as  well  as  the  state  of  Siam 


PREPARATION    OF    BOOKS.  435 

and  the  Sandwich  Islands,  then  unoccupied ;  but  they  excited 
no  attention. 

A.  JUDSON. 

To  the  Corresponding  Secretary. 

Amherst,  July  3,  1827. 

For  a  month  past  I  have  been  chiefly  employed  in  revising 
the  New  Testament,  in  several  points  which  were  not  satis- 
factorily settled  when  the  translation  was  made.  Have  also 
completed  two  catechisms  for  the  use  of  Burman  schools,  the 
one  astronomical,  in  thirty-eight  questions  and  answers,  the 
other  geographical,  in  eighty-nine,  accompanied  by  a  map  of 
the  world,  with  Burman  names. 

0.     Commenced  a  translation  of  the  book  of  Psalms. 

9.  Received  letters  from  Moung  Ing,  dated  Mergui,  June 
12,  in  which  he  says  that  he  is  preaching  the  gospel  to  all  he 
meets  —  in  the  streets,  in  houses,  in  zayats.  Some  contradict, 
some  revile,  some  say,  "  These  words  are  good,  but  the  reli- 
gion is  too  hard  for  us." 

Among  several  little  incidents  mentioned  by  Moung  Ing,  I 
select  the  following :  "  One  day  I  met  a  woman  who  praised 
the  meritorious  efficacy  of  religious  offerings.  I  preached  to 
her  the  vanity  of  such  offerings,  and  the  truth  of  Jesus  Christ. 
The  woman  repeated  my  words  to  her  husband.  Soon  after, 
as  I  was  passing  by,  the  husband  called  me  in,  and  invited  me 
to  preach  there.  Next  Sunday  I  went  to  the  house,  and  found 
they  had  invited  about  fifteen  of  the  neighbors  to  hear  me 
preach.  In  the  midst  of  preaching,  some  rose  up  and  went 
away  ;  some  staid  and  listened  till  I  had  finished,  among  whom 
there  are  three  or  four  persons  who  continue  to  appear  well. 
The  householder's  name  is  Moung  Pyoo,  and  his  wife's  name 
IMah  Thwai."  One  Moung  Nwai,  also,  a  man  of  Portuguese 
extraction,  appears  to  be  a  sincere  inquirer. 

One  of  us  having  been  requested  by  a  friend  in  Bengal  to 
procure  a  collection  of  sea  shells,  we  mentioned  it  in  writing 
to  Moung  Ing,  to  which  he  replies,  in  a  postscript,  "  In  regard 
to  what  you  say  about  sea  shells,  if  I  can  conveniently  collect 


436  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

some,  I  will  do  so ;  but  as  this  is  a  worldly  concern,  I  shall 
not  bestow  any  effort  upon  it,  and  probably  shall  not  effect 
much  "  —  a  resolution  not,  perhaps,  unworthy  the  attention  of 
missionaries  of  a  higher  order. 

11.  Received  letters  from  America,  the  first  that  have 
been  written  since  my  release  from  imprisonment.  Was  much 
gratified  to  find  that,  in  recommencing  the  work  of  translat- 
ing, I  was  anticipating  the  particular  wishes  of  the  board. 

Maulmain,  August  12,  Lord's  day.  Yesterday  came  up 
to  this  place,  on  a  visit  to  brother  Boardman.  To-day,  attempt- 
ed public  worship,  as  usual,  but  had  no  native  worshipper, 
except  Moung  Myat-poo,  from  Amherst.  He  staid  the  greater 
],>:irt  of  the  day,  and  gave  considerable  evidence  of  being  truly 
attached  to  religion.  In  the  afternoon,  Moung  Tau-lay,  a 
native  chief  in  this  village,  and  Moung  Mau,  brother  Board- 
man's  teacher,  of  whom  he  has  a  little  hope,  came  in,  and 
listened  with  some  attention. 

15.  Spent  several  hours  with  Moung  Bo,  an  old  Rangoon 
acquaintance,  in  discussing  the  external  evidences  of  the  Chris- 
tian religion.  Some  of  the  arguments  appeared  to  convince 
his  understanding,  but  his  heart  remains  unaffected. 

19,  Lord's  day.  Had  a  novel  assembly  of  thirteen,  all, 
except  Moung  Mau,  ignorant  of  the  first  principles  of  Chris- 
tianity. They  paid  uncommon  attention,  and  proposed  several 
questions,  which  occasioned  a  desultory  and  animated  conver- 
sation of  some  hours.  One  old  Pharisee  expressed  his  fear 
that  all  his  good  works  were  nugatory,  and  declared  his  sin- 
cere desire  to  know  the  real  truth. 

September  9,  Lord's  day.  Still  at  Maulmain,  as  we  have 
nearly  given  up  all  hope  of  Amherst's  becoming  a  town,  since 
Mr.  Crawfurd  has  declined  the  government  of  these  provinces. 

1 6,  Lord's  day.  Had  an  assembly  of  about  a  dozen.  One 
man,  by  name  Moung  Pan-pyoo,  a  sedate,  steady  person,  and 
a  strict  observer  of  the  Boodhist  religion,  listened  and  con- 
versed in  such  a  manner  as  raised  some  hope  that  he  is  well 
disposed  towards  the  truth. 

This  morning,  heard  of  the  death  of  our  excellent  sister. 


DKATII    OK    MAIl-MKX-LA.  437 

Mah  Men-la,  at  Amherst  —  an  event  which  we  have  been 
expecting  for  several  days.  She  was  taken  ill  before  I  left 
Amherst,  with  a  species  of  dropsy.  When  her  case  became 
dangerous,  she  was  removed  to  the  mission  house :  "  after 
which,"  says  a  letter  dated  September  3,  "  she  indulged  but 
little  hope  of  recovery.  She  therefore  made  her  will,  and 
gave  up  every  worldly  care.  In  her  will  she  bequeathed  lifty 
rupees  to  her  brother,  the  husband  of  Mah  Doke,  one  hundred 
and  fifty  to  the  missionaries,  and  the  remainder  (two  hundred, 
perhaps,)  to  her  two  adopted  boys,  with  the  exception  of  a  few 
articles  to  a  niece  in  Rangoon,  and  a  few  other  articles  to  be 
given  away  in  charity.  She  has  left  the  boys  in  our  charge, 
most  earnestly  desiring  and  praying  that  they  may  be  brought 
up  in  the  Christian  religion.  No  one  influenced  her  to  give 
us  any  part  of  her  little  property,  nor  had  we  the  least  idea 
that  she  intended  to  do  so,  until  she  desired  Moung  Shwa- 
ba  to  write  an  article  to  that  effect. 

"  When  her  will  was  written,  she  said,  '  Now  I  have  done 
with  all  worldly  things.'  Since  that,  she  has  enjoyed  great 
peace  of  mind.  She  does  not  express  a  doubt  that  her  name 
is  written  in  heaven,  and  that  she  is  hastening  to  a  blissful  im- 
mortality. She  suffers  considerable  pain  with  much  patience, 
and,  in  order  to  fortify  her  mind,  often  compares  her  sufferings 
to  those  of  her  divine  Master.  She  is  not  inclined  to  converse 
much  ;  but  how  delighted  you  would  be  to  hear  her,  now  and 
then,  talk  of  entering  heaven,  and  of  meeting  Mrs.  Judson^ 
and  other  pious  friends !  The  other  day,  after  having  dwelt 
for  some  time  on  the  delightful  subject,  and  mentioned  the 
names  of  all  the  friends  she  should  rejoice  to  meet,  not  omit- 
ting dear  little  Maria,  she  stopped  short,  and  exclaimed,  '  But 
first  of  all,  I  shall  hasten  to  where  my  Saviour  sits,  and  fall 
down,  and  worship  and  adore  him,  for  his  great  love  in  send- 
ing the  teachers  to  show  me  the  way  to  heaven.'  She  says 
that  she  feels  a  choice  in  her  mind  to  die  now,  rather  than  to 
be  restored  to  health,  but  desires  that  the  will  of  God  may  be 
done.  She  was  much  gratified  with  your  letter  to-day,  and 
37* 


438  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

now  seems  more  reconciled  to  the  idea  of  not  seeing  you  again 
on  earth.  I  feel  it  a  pleasure  to  do  any  thing  for  her,  she  is 
so  grateful  and  affectionate."  Letters  received  this  morning 
add,  "  While  the  funeral  procession  is  moving  towards  the 
house  appointed  for  all  living,  I  sit  down  to  inform  you  that 
last  evening,  about  nine  o'clock,  Mah  Men-la's  happy  spirit 
took  its  flight  to  her  native  skies.  Her  departure  was  quiet 
and  serene,  without  a  groan  or  sigh,  or  even  a  gasp,  to  distort 
her  smiling  countenance.  She  had  often  said  that,  to  her, 
death  had  no  terrors  ;  and,  though  insensible  at  last,  she  seemed 
to  bid  him  welcome.  A  large  concourse  of  people  attended 
the  funeral  services  ;  and  we  have  been  much  gratified  by  this 
general  respect  shown  to  our  departed  sister." 

October  2.  We  have  been  lately  clearing  up  part  of  our 
ground  contiguous  to  the  road,  and  removing  some  of  the  native 
houses,  with  a  view  to  building  a  house  for  brother  Wade  and 
myself,  as  we  have  now  concluded  to  abandon  Amherst  alto- 
gether, with  the  little  enclosure,  the  hope  tree,  and  the  graves 
which  contain  the  mouldering  remains  of  all  that  were  dearest 
to  me  on  earth. 

Maulmain,  October  7,  1827. 

Lord's  day.  A  succession  of  company  from  morning  till 
afternoon.  In  the  last  party  were  some  individuals  who  listened 
with  much  seriousness,  particularly  Moung  Gway,  a  man  of 
some  distinction.  This  is  his  second  visit,  and  his  whole  ap- 
pearance indicated  real  earnestness. 

19.  Had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  Moung  Ing,  who  has  just 
returned  from  Mergui.  Spent  the  evening  in  hearing  him 
relate  his  adventures.  The  latter  part  of  liis  residence  there, 
he  daily  occupied  a  zayat,  in  a  central  part  of  the  town,  and 
made  pretty  extensive  communications  of  the  gospel.  Beside 
some  cases  mentioned  in  his  letters,  he  now  mentions  the  case 
of  Moung  Nay,  from  Rangoon,  who  appeared  the  most  prom- 
ising of  all.  But  he  found  none  who  was  willing  to  accompany 
him  back  to  this  place,  though  some  expressed  a  desire  to  do 


REMOVAL    TO    MAULMAIN.  439 

SO,  in  order  to  see  the  foreign  teachers,  and  become  more 
acquainted  with  tlieir  religion. 

21,  Lord's  day.  Moung  Shoon  and  Moung  Pan-pyoo,  two 
of  our  principal  workmen,  were  with  me  a  great  part  of  the 
day,  and  I  cannot  but  hope  that  they  are  seriously  inquiring 
after  the  truth.  I  pressed  them  to  attend  a  prayer  meeting  in 
the  evening,  with  myself  and  Moung  Ing,  but  they  were  un- 
willing to  commit  themselves  so  far. 

November  14.  Have  been  extremely  busy  the  last  month, 
in  getting  the  new  house  ready  to  occupy.  On  the  10th,  went 
down  to  Amherst ;  and  to-day  removed  hither,  with  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Wade.  Moung  Shwa-ba,  Moung  Ing,  and  eleven  of 
the  female  scholars  accompany  us,  as  well  as  the  two  boys,  left 
in  our  charge  by  Mali  Men-la.  Mali  Doke  and  her  husband 
will  follow  us  in  a  few  days,  together  with  Moung  Myat-poo, 
and  several  families  connected  with  him.  As  to  Mah  Loon- 
byay,  she  is  obliged  to  remain  behind,  on  account  of  her 
husband. 

25,  Lord's  day.  We  have  arranged  a  large  room  in  the 
front  of  the  house,  in  the  manner  of  a  zayat,  and  to-day 
set  up  worship,  in  the  old  Rangoon  fashion  ;  and  a  busy  day 
it  has  been.  About  seventy  persons,  great  and  small,  attended 
worship  in  the  forenoon ;  after  which  twenty  or  thirty  women 
followed  Mrs.  Wade  into  another  room,  and  listened  to  her 
instructions.  In  the  evening  we  had  about  thirty  ;  and  after 
worship  some  animated  conversation  ensued,  in  which  Mah 
Doke's  husband,  Moung  Dwah,  came  out  very  decidedly  on 
the  side  of  Christianity.  Moung  Ing  has  a  good  degree  of 
missionary  spirit,  and  affords  much  assistance  in  the  work. 

26.  This  evening  we  had  rather  an  encouraging  season. 
Several  of  the  neighbors  came  in,  so  that  there  was  an  assem- 
bly of  a  dozen,  beside  the  school.  After  worship,  had  some 
particular  conversation  with  Moung  Dwah,  in  which  he  gave 
considerable  evidence  of  being  a  converted  man.  He  declares 
that  he  loves  the  religion  of  Christ,  because  he  is  sure  it  is  the 
true  religion,  and  confers  inestimable  benefits.  He  says  it  is 
about  six  weeks,  or  two  months,  since  his  miud  became  quite 


440  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

decided.  His  wife  says,  that  so  long  ago  he  began  to  read  the 
Scriptures  more  attentively,  and  requested  her  to  pray  for  and 
with  him,  which  she  did  for  some  days,  when  he  began  to  pray  in 
the  family  himself.  These  things  she  related,  at  the  time,  to  Mrs. 
Wade,  with  tears  of  joy.  Moung  Thah-oung  also,  an  old  Ran- 
goon neighbor,  and  violent  opposer,  has  just  come  up  from 
Amherst,  with  a  view  to  removing  here,  having,  as  he  says, 
become  convinced  that  his  former  opposition  was  wrong, 
and  that  the  religion  of  Christ  is  worthy  consideration  and 
acceptance. 

9,  Lord's  day.  I  cannot  help  recording  the  name  of 
Ka-ning-tsoo.  He  is  one  of  the  most  respectable  of  our 
neighbors  —  a  venerable,  white-headed  old  man,  called  a 
Thoo-dan-goung,  (saint,)  on  account  of  his  conscientious  life 
and  meritorious  deeds  ;  formerly  rich,  but  now  poor ;  once  a 
pharisee,  but  lately  disposed  to  change  his  character.  He  oc- 
casionally attends  our  evening  worship,  and  seems  to  be  opening 
his  mind  to  the  influence  of  divine  truth.  We  feel  much  in- 
terested in  him,  and  daily  pray  for  his  precious  soul. 

11.  Moung  Noo,  another  of  our  neighbors,  the  youngest  of 
four  brethren_,  came  in  last  Sunday,  just  at  night ;  and  after 
hearing  some  plain  truths,  he  staid  during  evening  worship,  and 
paid  uncommon  attention.  This  morning  he  came  again,  and 
this  evening  again.  After  worship,  he  inquired  with  feeling, 
"  What  shall  I  do  to  be  saved  ?  "  "  Believe  on  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ."  "  I  do  believe.  I  do  believe.  This  religion  is  right. 
I  have  been  all  wrong.  What  shall  I  now  do  ?  '*  "  If  you 
have  begun  to  believe,  let  your  faith  increase.  Attend  wor- 
ship. Keep  the  Lord's  day.  Become  the  Saviour's  servant. 
Do  all  his  will.  Give  yourself,  soul  and  body,  into  his  hands. 
Will  you  do  so  ?  "  "I  will,  I  will.  But  I  do  not  know  all  his 
will."  "  Read  the  Scriptures."  "  I  can  read  Talaing  only, 
not  Burman."  "  Come  then,  and  we  will  read  to  you.  Come 
every  day  to  worslii}^  and  at  all  times  of  day,  and  we  will 
instruct  you." 

The  case  of  this  poor  man  is  the  case  of  a  large  majority  of 
the  population  of  these  parts.     They  understand  the  Scriptures 


MEANS  FOR  SPKEADING  THE  TRUTH.        441 

in  Burman  when  read,  but  cannot  read  themselves.  And  I 
felt  the  necessity  of"  having  the  Scriptures  constantly  read  in 
some  public  place  —  in  a  word,  of  setting  up  a  reading  zayat, 
to  be  occupied  by  one  of  the  native  Christians. 

12.  Conversed  with  Moung  Shwa-ba,  on  the  project 
of  a  reading  zayat,  and  he  entered  into  it  with  some  in- 
terest. We  concluded  the;'efore  to  put  up  a  shed  on  the 
wayside,  in  the  vicinity  of  the  house,  and  employ  him  on 
account  of  the  mission  half  of  the  time,  the  other  half  of  his 
time  being  devoted  to  the  female  school.  Moung  Ing  is  to  be 
continued  in  the  service  of  the  mission  exclusively,  as  an  itin- 
erant throughout  the  place,  and  an  assistant  to  brother  Wade, 
in  the  preaching  zayat,  which  he  is  about  setting  up. 

16,  Lord's  day.  Moung  Shwa-ba  commenced  his  opera- 
tions in  the  reading  zayat,  and  had  several  listeners.  In 
the  course  of  the  day,  had  several  opportunities  of  preaching 
the  gospel  to  a  great  many.  In  an  excursion  through  the 
north  part  of  the  place,  met  Moung  Ing,  engaged  in  the  same 
way.  He  is  growing  a  most  valuable  assistant.  He  takes  up 
the  business  without  instigation,  and  appears  to  be  deeply  in- 
terested in  the  spread  of  the  gospel.  Moung  Dwah,  also,  is 
growing  in  zeal  and  attachment  to  the  cause.  I  trust  it  will 
not  be  long  before  he  is  baptized. 

31.  Though  considerable  missionary  work  has  been  done 
for  several  days  past,  I  have  noted  nothing  in  the  journal ; 
but  the  close  of  the  year  reminds  me  of  this  as  well  as  many 
other  delinquencies. 

The  means  which  are  at  present  using  for  the  spread  of 
truth,  may  be  said  to  be  four :  1st.  Public  worship  on  Lord's 
days.  This  commences  at  half  past  ten  o'clock  in  the  fore- 
noon, and  is  attended  by  the  members  of  the  mission,  the 
scholars,  the  native  converts,  and  inquirers,  and  occasionally 
some  of  the  neighbors  and  travellers ;  the  assembly  varying 
from  twenty  to  seventy  or  more.  The  worship  consists  of  a 
set  form  of  adoration  and  praise,  followed  by  an  extempore 
discourse,  or  rather  harangue,  for  it  is  commonly  very  desul- 


442  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

tory,  suited  to  the  nature  of  the  assembly ;  and  the  exercises 
are  closed  with  prayer.  After  the  assembly  breaks  up,  sev- 
eral remain,  and  we  frequently  have  religious  conversation 
and  discussion  for  several  hours.  2d.  The  daily  evening 
worship.  This  is  intended  for  our  own  family,  the  scholars,  the 
Christians  that  live  around  us,  and  such  of  the  neighbors  as 
wish  to  attend.  The  attendance,  including  the  children, 
averages  about  twenty.  We  begin  with  reading  a  portion  of 
Scripture  —  explain  —  exhort  —  and  conclude  with  prayer. 
After  worship  I  spend  the  evening  with  those  who  are  willing 
to  remain,  particularly  the  converts,  and  endeavor  to  make  the 
conversation  instructive  and  profitable  to  them.  In  the  mean 
time,  the  women  repair  to  another  room,  and  receive  the  in- 
struction of  Mrs.  Wade ;  and  this,  together  with  the  female 
school,  conducted  by  Mrs.  Wade  and  Mrs.  Boardman,  (brother 
Boardman  has  also  just  commenced  a  school  for  boys,)  may 
be  called  the  third  means.  The  fourth  is  brother  Wade's 
zayat,  about  half  a  mile  south  of  the  mission  house,  on  the 
principal  road  leading  from  Maulmain  to  Tavoy-zoo.  He 
goes  regularly  after  breakfast,  and  spends  the  day.  But  his 
adventures  he  will  relate  in  his  own  journal.  I  hope  in  a  few 
days  to  be  able  to  add  the  fifth  head,  namely,  a  small  zayat  at 
Koung-zay-kyoon,  about  two  miles  and  a  half  north  of  our 
present  residence,  a  very  populous  part  of  the  town,  where  I 
intend  to  spend  the  day,  making  an  occasional  exchange  with 
brother  Wade. 

As  to  success  —  our  most  hopeful  inquirer,  Moung  Myat- 
poo,  with  his  extensive  connections,  has  found  it  inconvenient 
to  remove  from  Amherst ;  and  for  him  we  can  only  hope  and 
pray.  Moung  Dwah,  brother  of  Mah  Men-la,  and  husband 
of  Mah  Doke,  gives  very  satisfactory  evidence  of  being  a  true 
disciple.  He  is  constant  in  attending  worship  every  dny, 
besides  his  own  family  worship,  and  has  lately  requested  to  be 
admitted  into  the  church.  He  will  probably  be  the  first  bap- 
tized in  the  waters  of  Maulmain.  The  second  is  Moung 
Thah-byoo,  (mentioned  April  22,)  a  Karen  by  nation,  imper- 


DEATH    OF    HIS    FATHER.  443 

fectly  acquainted  with  the  Burman  language,  and  possessed 
of  very  ordinary  abihties.  He  has  been  about  us  several 
months,  and  we  hope  that  his  mind,  though  exceedingly  dark 
and  ignorant,  has  begun  to  discern  the  excellence  of  the  reli- 
gion of  Christ.  The  third  is  Mah  Lah,  concerning  whom  my 
principal  acquamtance  is  derived  from  Mrs.  Wade.  She  is 
most  constant  in  improving  every  opportunity  of  attending 
worship,  and  gives  considerable  evidence  of  loving  the  gospel. 
Both  the  last  have  requested  baptism.  Next  in  order  comes 
the  priest,  whom  brother  Wade  has  doubtless  mentioned  in 
his  journal.  He  visits  the  zayat  every  day ;  has  been  to  the 
house  once,  and  spent  a  few  hours  with  me.  He  appears  to 
be  almost  convinced  of  the  truth,  but  cannot  yet  think  of  giv- 
ing up  the  merits  of  thirty-seven  years  of  clerical  austerity.  Ka- 
ning-tsoo,  mentioned  the  9th  instant,  remains  about  the  same. 
There  are  two  or  three  more,  who  attend  worship  occasion- 
ally, and  give  us  some  reason  to  hope  that  their  attention  has 
been  so  far  excited  as  to  consider  the  Christian  religion,  with 
some  conviction  of  its  truth  and  excellence.  I  ought  not  to 
forget  the  children  in  the  school,  two  or  three  of  whom,  and 
particularly  one,  by  name  Mee  A,  have  manifested  much  ten- 
derness of  feehng,  and  desire  to  obtain  an  interest  in  Christ. 

To  his  Mother  and  Sister,  Plymouth. 

!Maulmain,  December  13,  1827. 
My  dear  Mother  and  Sister  :  Yours  of  the  5th  Febru- 
ary last  reached  me  a  few  days  ago,  and  gave  me  the  particu- 
lars of  that  solemn  event  which  has  laid  the  venerable  head 
of  our  family  in  the  silent  dust.  "  Death,  like  an  ovei-flowing 
stream,  sweeps  us  away "  into  the  ocean  of  eternity.  You 
have  heard,  from  my  letters  of  December  7,  '26,  and  May  3, 
'27,  of  the  ravages  which  death  has  made  in  my  own  dear 
family.  I  am  left  alone  in  this  wide  wilderness,  to  w^ait  all 
the  days  of  my  appointed  time,  till  my  own  change  come.  I 
pray  earnestly  that  you  may  both  enjoy  much  of  the'  divine 


444  MEMOIR    OF    DR.   JUDSON. 

presence,  in  your  solitary,  bereaved  circumstances,  and  that 
both  you  and  I  may  be  preparing,  under  the  repeated  strokes 
of  our  heavenly  Father^s  hand,  to  follow  the  dear  departed 
ones,  and  enter  upon  the  high  enjoyment  of  everlasting  life. 
Your  affectionate  son  and  brother, 

A.  JUDSON. 


CHAPTER    XII. 

LABOKS  AT  MAULMAIN. —  ORDINATION  OF  BURMESE  PASTORS  — 
MUNIFICENT  GUT. —  LETTER  TO  SIR  ARCHIBALD  CAMPBELL. 
—  VIEWS  OF  HIGHER  AITAINMENTS  IN  RELIGION. —PREPARA- 
TION OF  WORKS  FOR  THE  PRESS.— SECLUSION. 

1828-1830. 

The  period  comprised  in  the  present  chapter  is 
marked  by  some  of  the  most  characteristic  events  in 
the  life  of  Dr.  Judson.  They  are,  for  the  most  part, 
narrated  with  sufficient  minuteness  in  his  journal  and 
letters.  A  few  introductory  remarks  may,  however, 
serve  to  connect  them  together  in  a  more  continuous 
whole. 

We  have  seen  that  Dr.  Judson  had  succeeded  in 
establishing  a  flourishing  church  in  Rangoon,  and  had 
removed  to  Ava  for  the  purpose  of  carrying  the  gospel 
to  "  regions  beyond,"  as  well  as  to  make  an  attempt 
to  secure  to  the  empire  some  degree  of  religious  toler- 
ation. These  cherished  prospects  were  all  ruined  by 
the  war.  The  church  in  Rangoon  was  dispersed  ;  the 
missionaries  whom  he  had  left  there  barely  escaped 
with  their  lives  ;  the  government  had  become  imbit- 
tered  against  all  foreigners  ;  and  he  and  his  wife  had 
passed  through  a  trial  such  as  has,  I  believe,  hap- 
pened to  no  other  modern  missionaries.  The  whole 
work  was  to  be  recommenced  ;  but  with,  the  ad- 
vantage of  a  perfect  knowledge  of  the  language,  and 
under  the  fostering  care  of  the  British  government. 

This  change  of  circumstances,  however,  made  no 
alteration  in  his  plans  of  labor.  Experience  had 
taught  him  to  adhere  with  greater  strictness  to  the 
VOL.  I.  38  445 


446  MEMOIR    OF    Dlt.    JUDSON. 

example  of  missionary  effort  contained  in  the  Acts 
of  the  Apostles.  Mr.  Wade  and  he  at  once  erected 
zayats  at  different  parts  of  the  town,  and  each  made 
the  viva  voce  preaching  of  the  gospel  his  chief  occu- 
pation. Dr.  Judson  was,  of  course,  engaged  con- 
stantly in  the  work  of  translation  ;  but  he  devoted  to 
it  only  the  intervals  which  occurred  between  his 
preaching  services  and  his  conversations  with  passers 
by.  The  result  was  the  same  as  at  Rangoon.  Very 
soon  one  and  another  became  deeply  interested  in  the 
subject  of  personal  religion.  Some  of  the  old  con- 
verts from  Rangoon  removed  to  Maulmain,  and  aided 
in  extending  the  knowledge  of  the  gospel.  A  Chris- 
tian church  was  soon  formed,  which  continues  until 
the  present  day. 

From  the  close  of  the  war  to  his  removal  to  Maul- 
main, Dr.  Judson  had  been  intimately  associated  with 
many  of  the  civil  and  military  officers  of  the  British 
government.  When  the  seat  of  the  chief  commis- 
sioner was  established  at  that  place,  this  intimacy  for 
some  time  continued ;  and  he  was  frequently  the  hon- 
ored and  cherished  guest  of  the  gentlemen  to  whom 
the  care  of  the  ceded  provinces  was  committed.  He, 
however,  soon  perceived  that  engagements  of  this 
kind,  from  being  mere  relaxation,  began  to  engross 
too  much  of  that  time  the  whole  of  which  he  had 
devoted  exclusively  to  the  Burmans.  In  a  matter  of 
duty,  he  was  incapable  of  doing  a  thing  by  halves. 
He  immediately  resolved  to  cut  off  every  thing  like 
fashionable  intercourse  with  his  English  friends  —  a 
resolution  to  which  he  steadfastly  adhered  to  the  close 
of  his  life.  The  first  person  to  whom  he  communi- 
cated his  intention  of  never  again  dining  out  of  the 
mission  was    Sir  Archibald  Campbell   himself.     The 


CHARACTERISTIC    EVENTS.  447 

announcement  created  of  course  a  variety  of  impres- 
sions in  the  small  society  of  Maulmain.  Some  re- 
gretted that  so  agreeable  a  man  should  become  a 
mere  devotee  ;  others  believed  that  sorrow  for  the  loss 
of  his  wife  had  made  him  mad  ;  while  others,  who 
understood  him  better,  honored  what  they  considered 
his  self-immolation  in  a  good  cause ;  and,  on  the 
whole,  he  was  regarded  with  a  sort  of  reverential 
sympathy.  In  subsequent  years,  his  separation  from 
general  society  came  to  be  regarded,  both  by  the 
English  and  even  by  his  brethren,  as  a  personal  pe- 
culiarity, resulting,  in  part,  from  religious  asceticism, 
and  partly  from  want  of  interest  in  those  around  him. 
This  opinion  was  wide  of  the  truth.  No  one  en- 
joyed intelligent  and  cultivated  society  more  keenly 
than  he  ;  and  he  surrendered  it  only  in  obedience  to 
those  principles  by  which  he  designed  to  govern  his 
life.  He  was,  however,  always  punctilious  in  the  per- 
formance of  those  simpler  civilities  which  required  no 
sacrifice  of  precious  time ;  and  he  was  on  intimate 
terms  with  nearly  all  the  civil  commissioners  sta- 
tioned on  that  coast,  standing  to  most  of  them  in  the 
relation  of  a  confidential  adviser. 

As  additional  missionaries  were  sent  out  by  the 
board,  they  naturally  came  first  to  Maulmain.  While 
there  may  have  been  some  propriety  in  sending  them 
to  that  point  to  learn  the  rudiments  of  their  missionary 
work,  and  to  become  acquainted  with  the  customs  of 
the  East,  Dr.  Judson  was,  from  the  first  to  the  last,  most 
earnestly  opposed  to  the  concentration  of  missionary 
effort,  either  in  this  or  in  any  other  place.  He  was 
in  favor  of  attacking  the  enemy  at  every  accessible 
point.  His  eye  was  fixed  on  the  whole  heathen  world  ; 
and  he  labored  incessantly  to  induce  his  brethren  to 


448  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

occupy  every  promising  field  that  presented  itself  in 
that  part  of  India.  It  was  at  his  suggestion,  I  believe, 
that  Dr.  Jones  established  the  mission  in  Siam,  Mr. 
Brown  that  in  Asam,  and  Mr*.  Boardman  that  at 
Tavoy.  These  were  all  brethren  to  w^hom  Dr.  Judson 
was  strongly  attached,  and  to  be  deprived  of  their 
cooperation  and  society  was  to  him  a  sore  bereave- 
ment ;  but  he  rightly  judged  them  all  to  be  eminently 
qualified  to  lay  the  foundations  of  new  missions,  and, 
as  was  his  wont,  he  sacrificed  all  personal  considera- 
lions  to  the  cause  in  which  he  had  embarked. 

He  applied  to  himself  the  same  rule  by  which  he 
supposed  every  missionary  should  be  governed.  As 
soon  as  there  were  men  at  Maulmain  able  to  perform 
the  labor  at  that  station,  he  left  it  to  plant  the  gospel 
in  other  districts.  In  this  spirit,  he  removed  to  Ran- 
goon to  aid  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Wade,  who  were  there 
laboring  alone.  Here,  however,  he  was  not  satisfied, 
but  pushed  on  to  Prome,  the  ancient  seat  of  Burman 
power,  determining  there  to  unfold  the  standard  of 
the  cross.  Here  he  labored  with  considerable  prospect 
of  success,  until  he  was  ordered  away  by  the  govern- 
ment at  Ava.  He  went  forth  on  this  mission  attended 
only  by  a  few  native  converts,  in  the  spirit  of  an 
apostle ;  and  his  farewell  to  Prome,  as  he  looked  upon 
it  for  the  last  time,  reminds  us  of  our  Lord's  pathetic 
lamentation  over  Jerusalem. 

When  his  mission  here  was  abruptly  terminated  by 
order  of  the  government,  he  returned  to  Rangoon  ; 
and  a  great  and  an  effectual  door  was,  for  a  wdiile, 
opened  for  him  in  that  city.  The  demand  for  tracts 
and  portions  of  the  Scriptures  was  great  beyond  all 
precedent.  Persons  from  all  parts  of  the  empire  were 
earnestly   desiring  writings  which  would    explain  to 


ZAYAT    OPENED.  449 

them  the  new  religion.  To  this  work  he  devoted  him- 
self with  characteristic  energy,  at  the  same  time 
translating  the  Scriptures,  and  preaching  the  gospel. 
A  knowledge  of  the  new  religion  was  thus  carried 
to  the  interior ;  and  from  the  seed  then  sown  have 
arisen  those  incipient  churches  found  so  frequently 
in  the  lower  part  of  the  empire. 

Dr.  Judson's  Joiirrial. 

Mauliuain,  January  2,  1828.  Spent  the  clay  in  brother 
Wade's  zayat,  he  being  otherwise  engaged.  Considerable 
company  all  day.  The  priest  present  most  of  the  time.  Tells 
every  body  that  he  comes  daily  to  investigate  the  new  reli- 
gion, speaks  in  our  favor  on  all  occasions,  but  will  not  own 
that  he  has  any  thought  of  changing  his  profession. 

January  G,  Lord's  day.  Not  a  very  interesting  day ;  the 
assembly  rather  thin,  but  in  the  evening  had  some  gratifying 
conversation  with  Mali  Lah,  and  obtained  satisfactory  evi- 
dence that  she,  as  well  as  Moung  Dwah,  has  experienced 
divine  grace. 

January  11.  Commenced  operations  in  the  Koung-zay- 
kyoon  zayat,  and  had  literally  a  crowd  of  company,  without 
any  intermission,  through  the  day.  Among  the  rest,  one 
Moung  San-lone,  who  has  received  some  instructions  from 
Moung  Ing,  appeared  to  drink  in  the  truth.  Two  others, 
whose  names  I  know  not,  staid  from  morning  till  night,  and 
manifested  that  inquisitive  spirit  which,  I  feel  persuaded,  will 
bring  them  again. 

January  12.  The  two  last,  Moung  Tau  and  Moung  Yay, 
were  with  me  nearly  all  day ;  but  San-lone,  I  am  sorry  to 
find,  has  suddenly  gone  off  to  Rangoon  on  business,  and  will 
be  absent  several  days.  In  the  evening,  Moung  Dwah  and 
Mah  Lah  were  examined  for  admission  into  the  church,  and 
fully  approved. 

January  13,  Lord's  day.  A  pretty  full  assembly  at  morning 
worship.     ]Much  gratified  to  see  Moung  Tau  and  Moung  Yay, 


450  l\rEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

who,  with  Moung  En,  a  very  sensible  young  man  from  Koung- 
zay-kyoon,  and  Moung  Myat-kyau,  brother  of  the  chief  of  that 
district,  and  two  or  three  others,  remained  several  hours,  and 
maintained  a  most  interesting  and  profitable  discussion  of 
many  points  of  Christian  doctrine.  All  these  that  have  been 
named,  together  with  Moung  San-lone,  may  be  considered 
hopeful  inquirers. 

January  14.  Company  at  the  zayat  through  the  day. 
Towards  night,  Moung  San-lone  came  in,  having  been  disap- 
pointed in  his  attempt  to  go  to  Eangoon.  He  manifests  a 
spirit  of  sincere,  anxious  inquiry.  He  says  that  he  desires, 
above  all  things,  to  find  the  light ;  but  it  seems  to  him  that 
the  farther  he  advances  the  more  dark  and  sinful  he  becomes. 
After  I  left  the  zayat,  he  told  Moung  Ing  that  he  wanted  to 
come  and  live  near  us,  that  he  might  devote  himself  more  en- 
tirely to  the  investigation  of  religious  truth. 

January  15.  A  crowded  zayat  all  day.  Obliged  to  talk  in- 
cessantly. One  Oo  San-lone,  a  blind  man  of  some  note  among 
his  neighbors,  took  the  lead  in  conversation.  The  other,  Moung 
San-lone,  is  evidently  improving  in  disposition  to  the  gospel. 

January  17.  Had  worship  in  the  house,  as  on  Lord's 
days.  Not  a  very  large  assembly,  but  some  of  the  most 
promising  inquirers  were  present.  After  the  exercises, 
Moung  Dwah  and  Mali  Lah  received  baptism.  Moung 
Thah-vyoo,  who  had  been  absent  on  business  several  days, 
happened  to  come  in  at  the  time,  and  requested  leave  to  join 
them  ;  but  we  advised  him  to  wait  a  little. 

At  night  Moung  San-lone  declared  that  he  fully  approved 
of  the  Christian  religion  in  all  its  parts,  but  felt  his  mind  so 
weak  and  dark  that  he  knew  not  how  to  encounter  the  re- 
proach and  ridicule  which  would  ensue  on  embracing  it. 

January  25.  For  several  days  past  the  attendance  at 
the  Koung-zay-kyoon  zayat  has  varied  from  ten  to  twenty 
through  the  day.  Moung  Myat-kyau,  brother  of  the  chief  of 
the  district,  has  been  gradually  advancing  in  religious  knowl- 
edge and  decision  of  character,  until  I  begin  to  indulge  a  hope 
that  he  is  a  subject  of  divine  grace.     Mah  Men,  an  old  ac- 


PROGRESS    OP    INQUIRERS.  451 

quaintance  of  Mah  Mee  of  Rangoon,  came  to  the  zayat  a  few 
days  ago,  and  listened  with  such  eagerness  and  approbation  as 
inclined  me  to  think  tliat  she  had  obtained  some  love  to  the 
truth  before  she  removed  to  this  place.  Her  husbiind  is  a  de- 
cided opposer.  The  opposition  throughout  the  district  and  the 
whole  place  is  becoming  more  open.  At  the  same  time,  the 
number  of  listeners  and  inquirers  is  multiplying,  and  the  ex- 
citement in  favor  of  religion  is  evidently  increasing.  Moung 
San-lone,  the  most  hopeful  inquirer,  has  gone  to  Rangoon,  and 
will  be  absent  several  days. 

March  20.  Since  the  last  date,  all  the  inquirers  mentioned 
then,  and  on  the  17th  preceding,  have  been  advancing  slowly. 
Some  or  other  of  them  attend  the  zayat  every  day.  Moung 
Shway-pan  and  Ko  Man-poke  must  also  be  added  to  the  list. 
The  latter,  an  elderly  man  of  some  respectability,  appears  to 
be  really  attached  to  the  truth,  but  is  yet  very  timid  in  his 
professions.  Mah  Men  is  treated  harshly  by  her  husband, 
and  seldom  dares  to  come  near  us.  Moung  San-lone,  on  his 
return  from  Rangoon,  was  accompanied  by  his  father-in-law, 
Oo  Pal  by  name,  a  very  active,  intelligent  old  man,  who 
drank  in  the  truth  with  singular  avidity.  On  his  return  to 
Rangoon  he  took  an  affectionate  leave  of  me,  promising  to 
remove  his  family  hither,  if  at  all  practicable.  We  hear  that 
our  old  friend  Moung  Thwa-a  is  now  in  Rangoon,  and  that 
there  are  several  of  the  old  inquirers  who  listen  to  his  instruc- 
tions. 

But  my  particular  object  in  taking  up  my  pen  this  morning 
was  to  mention  tlie  case  of  Moung  Shway-pwen,  a  bright 
young  man  of  twenty,  who  professes  to  have  received  the 
truth  about  fourteen  years  ago.  On  first  hearing  the  gospel 
at  the  zayat,  it  sank  into  his  heart ;  but  as  he  lived  at  some 
distance,  we  saw  him  occasionally  only.  A  few  days  ago,  he 
removed  hither,  and  took  up  his  abode  with  Moung  Ing,  that 
he  might  devote  himself  entirely  to  the  attainment  of  the  one 
thing  needful.  His  experience  has  been  uncommonly  clear 
and  rapid ;  and  having  outstripped  all  the  older  inquirers,  he 
this  morning  followed  his  Lord  into  the  watery  grave. 


452  MEMOIR    OF    DR.   JUDSON. 

March  23,  Lord's  day.  After  the  forenoon  worship,  Moung 
Myat-kyau,  Moung  San-lone,  and  Moung  En,  requested 
baptism ;  and  after  the  Lord's  supper  in  the  evening,  they 
were  examined  before  the  churcli,  and  approved. 

March  29.  Brother  and  sister  Boardman  left  us  for  Tavoy, 
with  the  cordial  approbation  of  all  the  members  of  the  mission, 
accompanied  by  Moung  Shwa-pwen,  and  Ko  Thah-byoo,  the 
Karen,  who  also  has  lately  been  approved  by  the  church,  but 
not  baptized. 

March  30,  Lord's  day.  The  three  persons  mentioned 
last  Lord's  day  were  baptized.  Three  others,  Moung  Yay, 
Moung  Shway-pan,  and  Ko  Man-poke,  attended  all  the  exer- 
cises of  the  day ;  and  they  give  considerable  evidence  of 
being  really  converted.  Mah  Moo  also,  a  poor  woman,  who 
has  occasionally  attended  the  instructions  of  Mrs.  Wade,  must 
be  mentioned  as  a  very  hopeful  character.  Mah  Men  is,  I 
hope,  a  decided  Christian,  but  is  seldom  able  to  attend,  on 
account  of  her  husband.  Moung  Tau,  who  has  been  some- 
times mentioned  among  the  inquirers,  has  become  rather 
deistical  of  late ;  but  we  do  not  despair  of  him.  May  the 
Lord  pour  out  his  Holy  Spirit  upon  our  hearts,  and  upon  the 
inhabitants  of  Maulmain. 

April  20.  Received  a  letter  from  Moung  Thah-a,  of  Ran- 
goon, stating  the  names  of  thirteen  men  and  three  women  who 
are  disciples  of  Jesus,  "  but  secretly,  for  fear  of  the  Jews." 
Li  the  number  I  recognize  my  old  friend  "  the  teacher  Oo 
Oung-det,  of  the  village  of  Kambet,"  and  two  or  three  others 
whom  I  formerly  knew ;  but  most  of  them  are  new  cases. 

May  31.  The  last  two  months  I  have  spent  at  the  zayat, 
with  scarcely  the  exception  of  a  single  day ;  and  I  seldom 
have  been  without  the  company  of  some  of  the  Christians,  or 
the  hopeful  inquirers.  In  the  latter  class  we  count  eight  or 
ten,  adding  to  those  mentioned  above  Moung  San-lone  the 
second,  a  young  man  of  ordinary  abihties,  but  warmly  attached 
to  the  cause,  and  JMoung  Bo,  noticed  once  in  the  annals  of 
the  Rangoon  mission,  a  man  of  the  first  distinction  in  point  of 
talents,  erudition,  general  information,  and  extensive  influence. 


MUNIFICENT    GIFT.  453 

His  progress  lias  been  so  slow  that  I  have  not  mentioned  him 
before ;  but  he  has  attended  me  ever  since  the  zayat  was 
opened,  his  house  being  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  street. 
He  was  an  intimate  friend  of  Moung  Shwa-gnong,  and  has 
apparently  been  going  through  a  process  similar  to  what  my 
dear  brother,  now,  I  trust,  in  heaven,  experienced.  He  has 
relinquished  Boodhism,  and  got  through  with  Deism  and  Uni- 
tarianism,  and  now  appears  to  be  near  the  truth.  Many  a 
time,  when  contemplating  his  hard,  unbending  features,  and 
listening  to  his  tones  of  dogmatism  and  pride,  I  have  said  in 
my  heart,  "  Canst  thou  ever  kneel,  a  humble  suppliant,  at 
the  foot  of  the  cross  ?  "  But  he  has  lately  manifested  some 
disposition  to  yield,  and  assures  me  that  he  does  pray  in 
secret. 

To  conclude  this  paper,  I  hope  that  the  light  is  gradually 
spreading  around  us,  more  extensively,  perhaps,  from  brother 
Wade's  zayat  than  from  mine,  that  being  in  a  situation  to 
catch  visitors  from  all  parts  of  the  country,  while  mine  is 
chiefly  confined  to  the  immediate  vicinity.  And  I  hope  also 
that  the  vSpirit  of  God  is  operating,  in  some  cases,  on  the 
minds  of  our  hearers.  All  those  who  have  been  baptized  in 
this  place,  as  well  as  those  who  came  with  us,  give  us  great 
and  increasing  satisfaction.  It  is,  I  think,  rather  characteristic 
of  Burman  converts,  Jiat  they  are  slow  in  making  up  their 
minds  to  embrace  a  new  religion  ;  but  the  point  once  settled  is 
settled  forever. 

To  the  Corresponding  Secretary. 

Maulmaix,  May  31,  1828. 
Rev.  and  dear  Sir  :  When  I  left  America,  I  brought  with 
me  a  considerable  sum  of  money,  the  avails  of  my  own  earn- 
ings, and  the  gifts  of  my  relatives  and  personal  friends.  This 
money  has  been  accumulating,  at  interest,  for  many  years, 
under  the  management  of  a  kind  friend  to  the  mission,  and 
occasionally  receiving  accessions  from  other  quarters,  par- 
ticularly at  the  close  of  the  late  war,  until  it  amounts  to 
twelve  thousand  rupees.     I  now  beg  leave  to  present  it  to  the 


454  MEMOIR    OF   DR.    JUDSON. 

board,  or  rather  to  Him  "  who  loved  us,  and  washed  us  from 
our  sins  in  his  own  blood."  I  am  taking  measures  to  have 
the  money  paid  to  the  agent  of  the  board,  and  the  payment 
will,  I  trust,  be  effected  by  the  end  of  this  year. 

I  would  suggest,  lest  a  temporary  suspension  of  the  neces- 
sity of  remitting  money  should  occasion  some  relaxation  of 
the  usual  efforts  made  to  meet  the  current  expenses  of  the 
mission,  whether  it  may  not  be  advisable  to  invest  a  sum 
equivalent  to  that  which  I  now  pay  the  agent,  viz.,  six 
thousand  dollars,  as  part  of  a  permanent  fund.  But  this  I 
leave  entirely  to  the  discretion  of  the  board. 

Yours,  faithfully, 

A  Missionary. 

P.  S.  It  is  not  from  an  affected  desire  of  concealment 
that  the  writer  has  subscribed  himself  "  A  Missionary."  He 
is  sensible  that  the  tenor  of  the  letter  will,  to  those  who  are 
acquainted  with  the  state  of  the  mission,  sufficiently  betray 
him.  But  this  is  not  the  case  with  the  pubhc  in  general ; 
and  so  far  as  it  may  be  thought  desirable  not  to  throw  away 
the  influence  of  example,  it  is  quite  sufficient  to  tell  the 
public  that  the  money  is  given  by  a  missionary,  without 
specifying  the  individual. 

Journal  continued. 

July  28,  1828.  Yesterday,  five  persons  were  baptized, 
whose  names  and  characters  are  as  follows  :  — 

1.  McDonald,  a  native  Hindoo,  twenty-eight  years  of  age. 
He  renounced  heathenism  a  few  years  ago,  and  was  chris- 
tened by  an  English  clergyman  on  the  Madras  coast.  His 
first  profession  of  Christianity  was  probably  sincere ;  but, 
within  a  few  months,  he  became  acquainted  with  some  per- 
sons whose  communications  unsettled  his  mind,  and  reduced 
him  to  a  state  of  darkness  and  perplexity  for  several  years. 
When  he  came  to  this  coast,  about  a  year  ago,  he  assumed 
the  English  dress,  and,  in  correspondence  with  his  former 
friends  in  Madras  and  Bengal,  he  made  many  attempts   to 


SKETCH    OF    FIVE    CONVERTS.  455 

disseminate  erroneous  sentiments  in  all  classes  of  society,  but 
happily  without  the  slightest  success.  One  morning,  about  a 
fortnight  ago,  he  came  to  the  zayat,  and  heard  the  doctrines 
of  im[)licit  faith  in  the  word  of  God,  and  of  regeneration  by 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit  —  doctrines  which  were  quito 
new,  and  at  the  same  time  quite  satisfactory  to  his  soul.  lie 
yielded  at  once  to  the  force  of  truth,  and  became,  to  all 
appearance,  a  humble,  teachable  disciple  of  the  divine  Son. 
He  understands  Burman  enough  to  join  in  our  worship,  and, 
on  his  requesting  baptism,  we  had  no  hesitation  about  receiv- 
ing him  into  our  little  number.  He  brought  with  him,  yes- 
terday, a  large  bundle,  which,  he  informed  us,  contained  the 
tracts  and  publications  which  had  given  him  so  much  trouble  ; 
and  when  he  was  baptized,  he  buried  them,  with  his  former 
character,  in  the  watery  grave. 

2.  Moung  Shway-pan,  whose  name  has  been  sometimes 
mentioned  in  the  journal  as  a  hopeful  inquirer.  He  has  been 
a  constant  attendant  at  the  zayat  ever  since  it  was  built,  and 
is  a  pretty  fair  specimen  of  a  cautious  Burman,  who  turns  a 
thing  over  ten  thousand  times  before  he  takes  it,  but,  when 
once  he  takes  it,  holds  it  forever.  He  accordingly  appears 
now  very  firm  and  decided. 

3.  Mai  Nyo,  an  aged  female,  above  eighty.  She  says  she 
was  a  little  girl  when  the  great  Alompra  subverted  the  king- 
dom of  Pegu,  and  established  the  present  Burman  dynasty, 
so  that  she  has  lived  under  eight  successive  monarchs.  She 
became  acquainted  with  Mrs.  Wade  three  or  four  months 
ago  ;  and  though  she  is  bitterly  opposed  by  her  relatives,  on 
whom  she  is  quite  dependent,  and  though  she  has  been,  es- 
pecially of  late  years,  a  devotee  in  religious  duties,  she  has 
renounced  all  for  Christ,  and  with  tottering  steps,  bending 
vmder  the  infirmities  of  age,  has  done  homage  to  the  King  of 
kings  in  the  baptismal  stream. 

4.  Mah-ree,  (Mary  Ilasseltine,)  about  twelve  years  old, 
daughter  of  Moung  Shwa-ba,  and  the  only  girl  that  survives 
of  the  female  school  which  Mrs.  Judson  commenced  at  Ava. 

5.  Meh  Aa,  of  the  same  age  and  standing  as  Mah-ree. 


456  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSOX. 

These  two  girls  are  the  first  fruits  of  nil  incipient  revival  in 
the  school,  similar  to  those  glorious  revivals  which  distinguish 
our  beloved  native  land.  May  the  Holy  Sj^tirit  be  poured  out 
more  copiously  on  our  own  hearts,  on  the  children  of  the 
school,  and  on  all  the  inhabitants  of  Maulmain. 

While  I  have  my  English  pen  in  hand,  —  an  event  wdiich 
rarely  occurs,  —  I  would  say  a  word  concerning  Ko  Myat- 
kyau,  w^ho  was  baptized  last  March,  especially  as  w^e  have 
considered  him  an  assistant  in  the  mission  since  that  time. 

He  is,  as  I  have  mentioned,  a  brother  of  the  first  native 
chief  in  the  place,  nearly  fifty  years  of  age,  of  most  respecta- 
ble rank  in  society,  more  so  than  any  other  that  has  been  bap- 
tized, possessed  of  a  clear  mind,  considerable  native  eloquence, 
and  an  uncommon  degree  of  mental  and  bodily  activity.  His 
literary  attainments  are  scanty ;  but  he  has  command  of 
handsome  language,  particularly  that  which  is  current  in 
the  higher  classes  of  society.  He  has  been  an  inquirer  after 
truth  many  years,  and  has  diligently  investigated  the  systems 
of  Boodh,  of  Brahma,  and  of  Mahomet.  At  length,  he 
embraced  the  religion  of  Jesus  Christ  with  all  his  heart  and 
soul,  manifesting  more  zeal  and  ardor  than  commonly  charac- 
terize his  cool,  considerate  countrymen.  He  has  suffered  as 
much  persecution  as  can  be  openly  inflicted  under  British 
government.  All  his  relations  and  friends  joined  in  a  most 
appalling  cry  against  him ;  his  wife  commenced  a  suit  for 
divorce  ;  and  his  brother  publicly  declared  that,  if  he  had  the 
power  of  life  and  death,  he  w^ould  instantly  wipe  out  with  his 
blood  the  disgrace  brought  upon  the  family.  Our  friend  bore 
it  all  with  the  meekness  of  a  lamb,  and  conducted  himself 
with  such  forbearance  and  Christian  love  that  the  tide  has 
begun  to  turn  in  his  favor.  His  wife  has  relinquished  her 
suit,  and  begins  to  listen  to  the  word ;  his  brother  has  become 
silent ;  and  some  few  of  the  relatives  begin  to  speak  in  our 
favor. 

It  ought  to  be  added  that  Ko  Myat-kyau  has  given  up  all 
worldly  business,  and  devoted  himself  to  assisting  us  in  our 
missionary  work.     For  this  he  is  particularly  fitted  by  his 


REVIVAL  IN  THE  FEMALE  UOAUDING  SCHOOL.   457 

undissembled  humility.  It  gives  us  great  pleasure  to  see  Iiiin 
sometimes  sitting  on  a  level  with  some  poor  beggar  woman, 
endeavoring,  in  language  intelligible  to  her  dark  mind,  to 
communicate  some  idea  of  the  mysteries  of  redeeming  love. 

But  in  commending  Ko  Myat-kyau,  I  would  not  forget  our 
old  tried  friends,  Moung  Ing  and  Moung  Shwa-ba.  The  for- 
mer says  it  is  his  meat  and  drink  to  preach  the  gospel,  and 
when,  for  some  time,  he  has  no  good  opportunity,  he  feels  like 
a  person  deprived  of  his  necessary  food.  The  latter  has  been 
lately  growing  in  habitual  self-denial  and  holiness  of  heart ; 
his  prayers  savor  of  heavenly  communion  ;  and  it  was  through 
a  word  from  him,  spoken  in  season  to  his  daughter  Mah-ree, 
that  the  revival  commenced  in  the  female  school. 

August  3,  Lord's  day.  We  baptized  Mee  Tan-goung,  Mee 
Nen-mah,  and  Mee  Nen  Yay,  three  girls  from  the  school, 
whose  cases  are  rendered  interesting  by  the  considerable 
knowledge  they  have  acquired,  in  the  course  of  a  few  months, 
by  the  distinctness  of  their  religious  experience,  and  by  the 
violent  persecution  they  have  suifered  from  their  respective 
parents  and  relatives.  Mee  Tan-goung's  case  is  particularly 
interesting,  when  contrasted  with  that  of  her  elder  sister,  Mee 
Lau,  who,  after  experiencing  very  clear  and  pungent  convic- 
tions of  divine  truth,  has  at  length  been  induced,  by  alternate 
jDromises  and  threatenings,  deliberately  to  reject  the  Saviour 
of  sinners,  and  join  her  mother's  party. 

Another  girl,  Mee  Pike,  who  gives  us  satisfactory  evidence 
of  being  converted,  was  brought  before  the  church  this  day  ; 
but  her  mother  being  a  member  of  the  church,  it  was  thouglit, 
by  some,  that  she  was  perhaps  influenced  by  her  mother's  ex- 
ample, rather  than  by  the  convictions  of  her  own  mind,  and 
we  could  not  get  a  clear  vote  for  her  admission. 

An  elderly  man,  Ko  Shan,  was  also  presented  ;  but  his  re- 
plies were  so  indistinct,  that  he  was  rejected  by  an  overwhelm- 
ing majority. 

Moung  San-lone  the  second,  mentioned  May  31,  was  ac- 
cepted for  baptism  next  Lord's  day. 

4.  Mee  Tan-goung's  mother  came  early  in  tlie  morning, 
VOL.   L  39 


458  MEMOIK    OF    DPt.    JUDSON. 

before  any  of  us  were  up,  and  having  made  lier  elder  daugh- 
ter, Mee  Lau,  open  the  door  of  the  school  zayat,  she  fell  upon 
her  younger  daughter,  abusing  and  beating  her,  until,  fearing 
that  she  should  alarm  the  house,  she  went  off.  Soon  after, 
however,  she  came  again,  and  finding  her  daughter  outside, 
she  beat  her  on  the  head  with  an  umbrella,  and  threatened  to 
sell  her  for  a  slave.  She  then  went  into  town,  and  after  rais- 
ing a  tumult  in  the  market-place,  and  declaring  that  her 
daughter  had  entered  into  a  religion  which  prevented  her  ly- 
ing and  cheating,  so  that  she  was  quite  lost  to  all  purposes  of 
trade,  she  carried  the  alarming  tale  to  the  mothers  of  the  other 
two  girls  who  were  baptized  yesterday.  One  of  them,  the 
mother  of  Mee  Nen-mah,  who  has  been  most  violent  hereto- 
fore, came  in  a  rage  to  Mrs.  Wade,  (brother  Wade  and  myself 
being  absent  at  our  zayats,)  and  after  using  as  bad  language 
as  she  dared,  she  ran  down  to  the  school  room,  seized  her 
daughter  by  the  hair,  and  dragged  her  out  doors  towards  a 
pile  of  wood,  where  she  would  soon  have  armed  herself  with 
a  weapon,  had  not  Mrs.  Wade  interfered,  and  rescued  the  vic- 
tim ;  upon  which  the  mother  went  off,  muttering  vengeance. 
The  girls  bore  all  this  abuse  in  silent  submission,  and  really 
manifested  something  of  the  spirit  of  martyrs.  All  three  are 
taken  into  the  house  for  the  present,  lest  their  infuriated  rela- 
tives should  make  an  assault  upon  them  by  night. 

Poor  Mee  Aa,  baptized  Sunday  before  last,  lives  in  great 
fear.  She  is  daily  expecting  her  mother  from  Amherst,  who 
will,  no  doubt,  take  her  away  instantly,  and  use  all  the  means 
in  her  power  to  make  her  renounce  the  Christian  religion. 

August  10,  Lord's  day.  Ko  Shan,  having  satisfied  us  all, 
during  the  past  week,  that  his  unfavorable  appearance  last 
Lord's  day  was  owing  more  to  his  want  of  language  to  ex- 
press his  ideas,  (being  a  Taling,  and  but  little  acquainted  with 
the  Burman,)  than  to  his  want  of  grace  was  this  day  reexam- 
ined and  accepted.  Mee  Pike  also  was  accepted ;  and  these, 
together  with  Moung  San-lone  the  second,  received  baptism. 

Two  other  girls,  younger  than  those  that  have  been  bap- 
tized,  appear  to  have  obtained  light   and   hope   in    Christ. 


PLAN  FOR  SUrrLYING  THE  TKEASUKY.       459 

"  Out  of  tlie  moutli  of  babes  and  sucklings  thou  hast  per- 
fected praise."  One  of  them,  Mce  Yoiik,  about  eight  years 
old,  gives  as  clear,  satisfactory  evidence  of  real  conversion  as 
any  of  the  older  girls.  The  other,  Mee  Kway,  like  our  de- 
parted ]Meli  Shway-ee,  was  rescued  at  Amherst  from  misera- 
ble slavery.  She  has  hitherto  given  us  very  little  pleasure, 
but  is  now  led  to  see  that  she  has  been  an  uncommonly  wicked 
child,  and  to  feel  a  humble,  penitent  disposition. 

24,  Lord's  day.  Mee  Youk  received  baptism,  though  her 
brother,  a  young  man,  threatens  to  beat  her  to  death. 

September  21,  Lord's  day.  We  baptized  Oo  Peen-yah, 
Pandarram,  and  Mee  Kway ;  the  first  a  respectable  person, 
about  fifty  years  of  age,  a  native  of  Tavoy,  by  profession  a 
doctor ;  the  second  a  Hindoo  from  the  Madras  coast,  a  doctor 
also,  and  astrologer,  quite  ignorant  of  English  and  Burman, 
and  brought  to  the  knowledge  of  the  truth  through  the  instru- 
mentality of  McDonald,  and  the  New  Testament  in  Tamil, 
which  he  has  had  in  his  hand,  day  and  night,  for  the  last  six 
weeks  ;  the  third  the  little  girl  mentioned  August  10. 

In  tlie  afternoon  we  partook  of  the  Lord's  supper,  with 
twenty  native  communicants,  four  being  absent  from  illness  or 
other  causes,  besides  those  at  Rangoon  and  Tavoy. 

To  the  CorresiJondlng  Secretanj, 

MArLMAix,  September  1,  1828. 
Rev.  and  dear  Sir  :  Since  it  is  to  be  ascribed  to  the  want 
of  money,  rather  than  to  that  of  men,  that  the  Baptists  in  the 
United  States  of  America  make  such  feeble  efforts  to  send  the 
gospel  through  the  world,  inasmuch  as  the  want  of  money  pre- 
vents the  managers  of  missions  from  presenting  those  invita- 
tions and  encouragements  Avhich  would  be  gladly  embraced  by 
many  young  men  who  are  waiting  the  call  of  Providence,  we 
feel  the  importance  of  recurring  practically  to  the  golden  rule, 
that  every  individual  do  his  duty  in  furnishing  those  means 
which  are  absolutely  necessary  to  carry  on  the  great  war  with 
the  prince  of  darkness  and  his  legions  in  this  fallen  world. 
Feeling,  also,  that  missionaries  and  ministers  are  under  pecu- 


460  MEMOIR    OF    DK.    JUDSON. 

liar  obligations,  beyond  any  other  classes  of  Christians,  to  take 
the  lead  in  contrihuiing  of  their  substance,  and  encouraged  by 
our  Saviour's  commendation  of  the  poor  widow  in  the  gospel, 
we  have  entered  on  a  course  of  living  which  will,  we  hope, 
enable  us  to  offer  our  two  mites  ;  and  we  pro2)ose,  therefore, 
to  relinquish  annually  one  twentieth  of  the  allowance  which 
we  receive  from  the  board  of  missions. 

We  respectfully  suggest  that  a  similar  proposal  be  made  to 
the  Baptist  ministers  in  the  United  States ;  and  we  engage 
that,  as  soon  as  it  shall  appear  that  one  hundred  ministers, 
including  ourselves,  have  resolved  to  transmit  annually  to  the 
treasurer  of  the  American  Baptist  Board  of  Foreign  Missions 
one  twentieth  of  all  their  regular  income,  wdiether  derived 
from  their  salaries  or  estates,  we  will  relinquish  a  second  twen- 
tieth of  our  allowance,  that  is,  one  tenth  of  the  whole. 

And  lest  it  be  said  that  we  now  receive  high  allowances, 
and  can  therefore  afford  to  make  some  retrenchment,  we  state, 
not  by  way  of  ostentation,  but  merely  to  meet  the  remark, 
that,  considering  our  allowances  cover  all  our  personal  ex- 
penses except  building  or  house  rent,  conveyance  on  mission 
business,  and  charges  for  medical  attendance,  we  receive  less 
than  any  English  missionaries  of  any  denomination,  in  any 
part  of  the  East,  and  as  little  as  any  American  missionaries  in 
those  parts,  notwithstanding  the  expense  of  living  on  this  coast 
is  probably  greater  than  at  a  majority  of  other  stations. 

We  remain, 

Yours  fliithfully, 

A.  JuDSON, 

J.  Wade. 

Joicrnal  coniinued. 

October  6,  1828.  We  baptized  Oo  Pay,  Mah  Kai,  Mah 
Toon,  and  Mah  Lan.  The  first  is  a  respectable  man,  about 
sixty  years  of  age.  He  was  obliged  to  leave  his  house  day 
before  yesterday,  and  take  refuge  with  us,  his  wife  and  family 
made  such  an  uproar  about  his  heretical  intentions.  But  last 
night  a  pressing  message  came  for  him  to  return,  upon  which 


P:NC0URAG1NG    report    FROil    RANGOON.  461 

he  made  them  a  visit,  and  they  promised  to  behave  belter. 
They  only  begged  that  after  he  was  baptized,  he  would  not 
go  about  the  neighborhood  proclaiming  that  Gaudama  is  not 
the  true  God,  as  others  who  enter  the  new  religion  are  apt 
to  do. 

The  second  is  the  mother  of  Mee  Aa,  of  whom  the  daugh- 
ter was  so  much  afraid,  as  mentioned  under  August  4.  Soon 
after  that  date,  Mee  Aa  came  trembling,  one  morning,  to  Mrs. 
Wade,  with  the  alarming  news  that  her  mother  had  just  arrived 
at  the  landing-place,  with  the  intention,  doubtless,  of  taking 
her  away  by  force  ;  and  what  should  she  do  ?  She  was  told 
to  go  and  meet  her  mother,  and  to  pray  as  she  went.  But  the 
poor  girl  need  not  have  been  alarmed.  She  had  been  inces- 
santly praying  for  her  mother  ever  since  she  had  learned  to 
pray  for  herself;  and  God  had  heard  her  prayers,  and  soft- 
ened her  mother's  heart.  So  when  she  heard  that  her  daugh- 
ter was  actually  baptized,  she  only  made  up  a  queer  face,  like 
a  person  choking,  and  said,  "  It  was  so,  was  it  not  ?  I  hear 
that  some  quite  die  under  the  operation."  This  speech  we  all 
considered  encouraging.  And,  accordingly,  she  soon  settled 
down  among  us,  drank  in  the  truth  from  her  daughter's  lips, 
and  then  followed  her  example. 

The  third  is  the  eldest  daughter  of  Mali  Lah;  and  the 
fourth,  wife  of  our  assistant,  Moung  Ing. 

November  2.  Ko  Thah-a  arrived  from  Rangoon.  His 
story  is  rather  interesting,  but  too  long  to  be  given  in  detail. 
At  the  close  of  the  war,  in  the  year  182G,  he  spent  a  few 
months  at  a  large  village  in  the  neighborhood  of  Shwa-doung  ; 
and  there,  devoting  himself  to  the  preaching  of  the  word,  he 
produced  a  very  considerable  excitement.  Several  professed 
to  believe  in  the  Christian  religion ;  and  three  of  the  most 
promising  received  baptism  at  his  hands.  Some  others  request- 
ed the  same  favor ;  but  he  became  alarmed  at  his  own  temerity, 
and  declined  their  repeated  applications.  The  villagers,  in 
time,  returned  to  the  vicinity  of  Rangoon,  whence  they  had 
fled  at  the  commencement  of  the  war.  He  also  returned  to 
Rangoon,  his  former  residence,  and  continued  to  disseminate 
30* 


462  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

the  truth,  but  in  a  more  cautious  and  covert  manner.  He  has 
now  come  hither  to  inquire  what  he  shall  do  Avith  those  who 
wish  to  be  baptized,  and  to  get  some  instructions  concerning 
his  own  duty.  He  says  that  he  cannot  stay  long,  for  when  he 
came  away  the  converts  and  inquirers  begged  him  to  return 
soon,  and  his  heart  is  evidently  with  his  little  Hock,  whicli  he 
has  left  in  yonder  wilderness.  Let  us  pray  for  Ko  Thah-a, 
and  th.e  remnant  in  Rangoon.  For,  though  the  tree  seemed 
for  a  time  cut  down,  "  the  stump  of  the  roots  was  left  in  the 
earth,  with  a  band  of  iron  and  brass,  in  the  tender  grass  of 
the  field." 

November  30.  "We  baptized  Moung  Dwa,  Moung  Shoon, 
and  Matthew.  Moung  Dwa  is  a  native  of  Arracan,  formerly 
a  gross  reviler  and  blasphemer,  but  now  zealous  for  the  truth. 
Moung  Shoon  is  a  merchant  of  some  property,  and  very 
respectable  connections.  Matthew  (alias  Ram  Sammy,  that 
is,  god  Ram)  is  a  Hindoo,  of  the  same  class  with  Pandarram, 
mentioned  September  21.  We  have  not  been  in  the  habit  of 
changing  Burman  names,  as  they  are  generally  destitute  of 
any  bad  signification  ;  but  the  names  of  the  Hindoos  are  some- 
times (as  in  the  present  case)  utterly  abominable,  and  require 
to  be  cast  off,  with  all  their  other  abominations. 

December  7.  We  baptized  Mali  Tee,  wife  of  Ko  Man-poke, 
who  has  been  a  very  hopeful  inquirer  for  nearly  a  year,  but 
cannot  yet  fully  make  up  his  mind.  Mali  Tee  would  have 
joined  the  party  last  Lord's  day,  had  not  her  husband,  poor 
man,  been  unwilling  to  have  her  go  before  him.  She  has 
been  very  anxious  about  it  several  days ;  and,  though  she  is 
of  a  most  amiable  disposition,  and  they  have  been  a  very 
happy  couple  for  twenty-five  years,  she  told  him  that  this  was 
a  business  which  concerned  her  eternal  interests ;  that  she 
believed  in  Clirist  with  all  her  heart,  and  could  not  wait  for 
him  ;  and  upon  tliis  he  gave  a  reluctant  consent.  She  appears 
to  have  attained  an  uncommon  share  of  divine  grace. 

December  14.  We  baptized  Thomas,  (making  the  thirtieth 
received  this  year,)  a  Hindoo  of  the  same  class  and  character 
with  Matthew,  mentioned  above. 


OKDIXATION    OF    THE    FIRST    IJUIt.MESE    PASTOR.       463 

The  four  Hindoo  converts  having  all  taken  Biirman  wives, 
without  any  ceremony  of  marriage  at  all,  we  thought  proper 
to  require  them  to  be  married  in  a  Christian  manner  ;  but  none 
of  their  wives  give  any  evidence  of  being  piously  inclined. 

January  4,  1829,  Lord's  day.  We  commence  this  year 
with  an  auspicious  event  —  the  ordination  of  Ko  Thah-a  as 
pastor  of  the  church  in  Ivangoon,  to  which  place  he  expects  to 
depart  by  an  early  conveyance,  lie  has  been  so  evidently 
called  of  God  to  the  ministry  that  we  have  not  felt  at  liberty 
to  hesitate  or  deliberate  about  the  matter.  But,  if  it  had 
been  left  to  us  to  select  one  of  all  the  converts  to  be  the  first 
Christian  pastor  among  his  countrymen,  Ko  Thah-a  is  the 
man  we  should  have  chosen.  His  age,  (fifty-seven,)  his 
steadiness  and  weight  of  character,  his  attainments  in  Burman 
literature,  which,  though  not,  perhaps,  necessary,  seem  desira- 
ble in  one  w^ho  is  taking  up  arms  against  the  religion  of  his 
country,  and  his  humble  devotedness  to  the  sacred  work,  all 
conspire  to  make  us  acquiesce  with  readiness  and  gratitude  in 
the  divine  appointment. 


Letter  to  Sir  Archibald  Campbell. 

Maulmain,  January  8,  1829. 

My  dear  Sir  :  A  few  days  ago  I  heard  of  your  intention 
to  leave  this  place  on  your  return  home. 

"When  I  reflect  on  your  many  kindnesses  to  me  and  my  be- 
loved wife,  now,  I  trust,  in  heaven,  from  the  time  I  first  saw 
you  at  Yebbay  to  the  present  moment,  and  on  the  many  pleas- 
ant interviews  with  which  I  have  been  honored,  it  is  natural 
that  I  should  feel  a  desire  to  exprcss  my  gratitude  for  your 
goodness,  and  my  regret  at  your  departure.  But,  besides  that 
desire,  I  have,  for  a  few  days,  had  an  impression  on  my  mind 
which  I  cannot  avoid,  and  dare  not  counteract.  I  would  fain 
say  a  few  words  to  you  on  a  subject  which  you  have  probably 
never  had  a  friend  faithful  enough  to  present  plainly  to  your 
mind.  I  feel  that  I  Avrite  under  the  influence  of  a  higher 
power  ;  and  I  beg  that  if  my  words  offend  you,  you  will  still 


464  BIEMOIK    OF    DK.    JUDSON. 

have  the  charity  to  believe  that  I  am  influenced  by  none  other 
than  the  most  disinterested,  affectionate,  and  respectful  senti- 
ments. And  though  you  should  at  first  be  displeased,  I  can- 
not but  hope  that  you  will  sometimes  suffer  the  question  to 
intrude  on  your  most  retired  moments,  Avhether  the  words  I 
speak  are  not  the  words  of  eternal  truth. 

But  why  should  I  proceed  with  hesitation  and  fear  ?  Why 
give  way  to  an  unbelieving  heart  ?  He  who  inclines  me  to 
write  will  incline  your  heart  to  receive  my  words.  If  even  a 
heathen  monarch  appointed  one  of  his  courticrS  to  accost  him 
every  morning  with  the  warning  salutation,  "  Philip,  thou 
must  die,"  surely  Sir  Archibald  Campbell,  of  a  Christian 
country  and  Christian  habits,  will  be  willing,  for  a  moment,  to 
turn  away  his  ear  from  the  voice  of  flattery,  and  listen  to  the 
monitory  voice  of  sober  truth. 

And  yet  true  religion  is  a  very  different  thing  from  all  that 
you  have  probably  been  acquainted  with.  True  religion  is 
seldom  to  be  found  among  mitred  prelates  and  high  dignitaries. 
It  consists  not  in  attachment  to  any  particular  church,  nor  in 
the  observance  of  any  particular  forms  of  Avorship.  Nor  does 
it  consist  in  a  mere  abstinence  from  flagrant  crimes,  a  mere 
conformity  to  the  rules  of  honesty  and  honor.  True  religion 
consists  in  a  reunion  of  the  soul  to  that  great,  omnipresent,  in- 
finite Being,  from  whom  we  have  all  become  alienated,  in  con- 
sequence of  the  fall.  In  our  natural  state,  we  spend  our  days 
in  seeking  the  wealth  and  honors  of  this  life,  which  we  yet 
know  to  be  but  short  and  transitory,  and  we  become  too  for- 
getful of  that  awful  eternity  to  which  we  are  rapidly  hastening. 
So  great  is  the  blinding  influence  of  sin,  and  so  successful  the 
fatal  machinations  of  the  god  of  this  world,  that  when  we  can- 
not stay  the  near  approach  of  death  and  eternity,  we  still  en- 
deavor to  quiet  our  conscience  and  pacify  our  fears  by  vague 
and  indefinite  ideas  of  the  mercy  of  God,  and  by  the  hope  that 
it  will  be  well  with  us  hereafter,  though  the  still  voice  within 
whispers  tliat  all  is  wrong;  and  thus  we  are  apt  to  suffer 
year  after  year  to  pass  away,  while  we  drink  the  intoxicating 
draught  of  pleasure,  or  climb  the  height  of  human  ambition. 


LETTER    TO    SIR    ARCHIBALD    CAMPBELL.  465 

O  Sir  Arcliibiikl,  tlie  glittering  colors  of  this  world  "svill  soon 
fade  away ;  the  bubbles  of  life  will  soon  burst  and  disappear ; 
the  cold  grave  will  soon  close  upon  our  Avorldly  enjoyments, 
and  honors,  and  aspirings ;  and  where  then  will  our  souls  be  ? 

God's  own  eternal  Son,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  came  down 
from  heaven  to  rescue  us  from  the  delusion  of  this  world,  the 
power  of  sin,  and  the  doom  of  the  impenitent.  But  "  unless 
we  have  the  spirit  of  Christ,  we  are  none  of  his."  His  own 
divine  lips  have  declared,  "  Except  a  man  be  born  again,  he 
cannot  see  the  kingdom  of  God."  And  the  ambassador  of 
Christianity  must  not  hesitate  to  declare  this  solemn  truth, 
plainly  and  fearlessly,  to  the  king  and  the  beggar,  the  rich  and 
the  poor,  if  he  would  clear  his  own  conscience,  and  manifest 
true  love  to  their  souls. 

Allow  me,  then,  to  say  to  thee.  Sir  Archibald,  Turn  away 
thine  eye  from  the  fleeting  shadows,  and  thme  ear  from  the 
empty  sounds  of  earth.  Open  the  eye  of  thy  mind  to  the 
uncreated  beauties  of  that  divine  Being  who  is  ever  with 
thee,  and  ever  waiting  to  be  gracious.  Listen  to  the  call  of 
his  Holy  Spirit.  Give  thine  heart  to  the  Friend  and  Lover  of 
man,  who  hung  and  died  on  the  cross  to  redeem  us  from 
eternal  woe,  and  thou  shalt  find  such  peace  and  sweetness  as 
thou  hast  never  yet  conceived  of.  Thou  wilt  be  astonished  that 
thou  couldst  have  lived  so  many  years  ignorant  of  such  tran- 
scendent beauty,  insensible  to  those  excellences  which  fill 
heaven  with  rapture,  and  in  some  instances  make  a  heaven  of 
earth.  But  if  thou  wilt  not  give  thy  heart  to  God,  thou  wilt 
never  find  true  happiness  here,  thou  wilt  never  see  his  face  in 
peace. 

I  do  not  suppose  that,  amid  your  present  hurry,  you  will 
find  leisure  to  pay  any  attention  to  the  topic  I  now  present. 
But  perhaps  when  oceans  have  intervened  between  us,  when 
resting  in  the  bosom  of  your  own  native  land,  the  truths  of 
this  letter  may,  through  tlie  divine  blessing,  find  their  way  to 
your  heart. 

Farewell,  Sir  Archibald,  and  while  all  around  you  flatter 
and  praise,  while  the  plaudits  of  your  king  and  country  sound 


466  MEMOIR    OF    DR.   JUDSON. 

in  your  ears,  believe  that  there  is  one  person,  humble  and 
unknown,  who  prays  in  his  retirement  for  your  immortal  soul ; 
whose  chief  desire  is  to  see  you  on  the  great  day  invested, 
not  with  the  insignia  of  eartlily  monarchs,  but  with  the  glori- 
ous crown  of  eternal  life,  and  who  desires  ever  to  subscribe 
himself. 

With  heartfelt  affection  and  respect. 

Your  sincere  friend  and  laithful  servant, 

A. JuDSON. 

To  the  Corresponding  Secretary. 

Maulmain,  January  27,  1829. 
Rev.  and  dear  Sir  :  Your  letters  of  May  and  June, 
1828,  came  to  hand  last  evening.  In  my  previous  communi- 
cations, I  have,  I  believe,  anticipated  every  point  that  you 
mention,  except  that  of  an  application  to  the  Bible  Society ; 
and  even  on  that  point  it  is  rather  singular,  that,  only  three 
days  previous  to  receiving  your  last,  I  was  conning  over  a 
letter  of  the  very  pnrport  that  you  suggest—  with  this  differ- 
ence, however,  that  I  thought  of  making  apphcation  for  the 
premium  only,  which  is  usually  granted  for  the  first  translation 
of  the  New  Testament,  viz.,  five  hundred  pounds.  As  to  the  Old 
Testament,  I  am  sorry  that  I  have  inadvertently  led  you  to  sup- 
pose that  the  translation  was  rapidly  advancing.  When  I  men- 
tioned commencing  the  Psalms,  it  was  not  with  an  immediate 
view  of  doing  any  more  than  that  book,  though  I  hope,  in  time,  if 
life  be  spared,  to  go  on  with  the  rest.  But  even  that  book  is  not 
yet  done.  The  truth  is,  that  when  I  settled  here,  I  found,  that 
what  with  death,  and  what  wdth  dispersion,  I  had  no  church 
about  me  to  read  even  the  New  Testament.  I  gave  up  study, 
therefore,  and  spent  nearly  a  year  in  a  little  shed,  projecting 
into  one  of  the  dirtiest,  noisiest  public  streets  of  the  place. 
Brother  Wade  did  the  same  in  another  quarter.  The  conse- 
quence has  been,  that  as  God  owns  the  truth,  though  preached 
by  the  most  unworthy  creatures,  a  considerable  impression  has 
been  made  on  the  place  ;  a  small  church  has  been  collected ; 
the  number  of  inquirers  is  increasing  ;  and  the  opposition  is 


CHARACTER    OF    HIS    WORK.  467 

most  outrageous.  I  never  saw  any  tiling  like  it  in  Rangoon,  for 
there  we  did  nothing  in  public.  The  mass  of  the  population, 
particularly  in  parts  where  converts  have  been  made,  show  all 
the  rage  of  chained  wild  beasts.  But  to  return.  My  ideas  of 
translating  are  very  different  from  those  of  some  missionaries, 
better  men  than  myself,  but  mistaken,  I  think,  in  this  particu- 
lar. I  consider  it  the  work  of  a  man's  whole  life  to  procure  a 
rccdh/  good  inmsh\t\on  of  even  the  New  Testament  in  an  untried 
language.  I  could  write  much  on  this  subject,  but  I  have 
neither  time  nor  disposition.  I  would  only  say  that,  in  many 
instances,  missionary  labor  has  been  dreadfully  misdirected, 
and  hundreds  of  thousands  most  foolishly  thrown  away.  As 
to  us,  we  wish  to  proceed,  s^oii?  and  sure,  and  to  see  to  it  that 
whatever  we  do,  in  regard  to  the  inspired  word,  is  ivell  done. 
About  four  months  ago,  being  convinced  that  the  New  Testa- 
ment, notwithstanding  all  my  labor  upon  it,  was  still  in  a  very 
imperfect  state,  brother  Wade  and  myself  undertook  a  thorough 
revision.  We  have  now  done  one  quarter  of  it ;  and  I  have 
some  hope  that  by  the  time  the  printer  and  press  arrive,  we 
shall  be  able  to  warrant  the  whole.  After  that,  we  propose  to 
work  and  rework  at  the  precious  book  of  Psalms,  until  we 
can  venture  to  warrant  that  also.  And  so,  God  willing,  and 
giving  us  life  and  strength,  we  hope  to  go  on.  But  we  beg 
still  to  be  allowed  to  feel,  that  our  great  work  is  to  preach  the 
gospel  viva  voce,  and  build  up  the  glorious  kingdom  of  Christ 
among  this  people.  To  this  end,  we  consider  a  good  transla- 
tion of  the  New  Testament,  the  Psalms,  and  some  other  por- 
tions of  the  Old  Testament,  essentially  necessary  —  the  whole 
very  desirable. 

I  am  extremely  sorry  to  hear  that  there  are  no  young  men 
ready  to  come  out.  There  are  only  three  of  us,  and  death  is 
hovering  around.     May  I  be  allowed  to  say  a  word  in  favor  of 

brother ,  though  I   have    not   heard  of  him   for   two 

years  ?  From  some  letters  that  I  have  seen,  and  the  accounts 
given  by  brothers  Wade  and  Boardman,  I  cannot  help  regret- 
ting that  circumstances  prevented  his  being  sent  out.  And 
may  I  be  allowed  to  add,  though  it  is,  perhaps,  going  beyond 


468  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

my  province,  that  possibly  the  board  may  have  become  too 
particular  in  their  choice  of  missionaries  ?  Good,  humble,  pious, 
self-denying,  judicious  men  will  perhaps  do  more  good  than 
brilliant  geniuses  and  men  of  great  literary  attainment. 

Yours,  faithfully, 

A.  JuDSON. 

Journal  continued. 

January  11,  1829.  Pastor  Thah-a  took  leave  of  us  for  his 
charge  in  Rangoon.  We  love  him  as  a  brother  missionary  — 
a  humble,  conscientious,  faithful  servant  of  the  Lord  Jesus. 
During  his  visit  he  has  endeared  himself  to  us  all ;  and  Ave 
should  gladly  detain  him  here,  were  he  not  evidently  called  to 
labor  in  another  part  of  the  vineyard.  May  he  be  made 
faithful  unto  death,  and  then  receive  the  crown  of  life. 

25.  Last  Lord's  day,  another  god  Ram  (see  November  30) 
was  divested  of  his  attributes,  and  rose  out  of  the  water  plain 
John.  lie  is  a  Taling  man,  but  understands  Tamil  enough 
to  join  with  the  other  Hindoos  who  speak  that  language.  To- 
day we  expected  another  Hindoo,  but  he  was  detained  for 
some  reasons  unknown  to  us,  and  we  made  up  a  small  female 
party,  consisting  of  Mali  See,  Mali  Gatee,  and  Mali  Kyan,  all 
decided  and  hearty  in  the  cause,  amid  a  torrent  of  threatening 
and  abuse.  The  first  is  the  wife  of  Moung  San-lone,  second ;  but 
her  elder  brother,  and  her  priest,  and  other  acquaintance  are 
all  alive  on  the  occasion.  The  husbands  of  the  other  two  are 
both  opposers,  and  have  threatened  their  wives  with  every 
thing  bad  if  they  enter  the  new  rehgion.  They  expect  to 
suffer  as  soon  as  their  husbands  hear  of  the  deeds  of  this  day. 
We  feel  most  for  IMali  Kyan,  who  has  a  child  at  her  breast, 
an  only  child  ;  and  her  husband  has  declared  that  he  will  not 
only  turn  her  off,  but  take  the  child  away  from  her,  and  pro- 
vide it  anotlicr  nurse.  After  they  were  baptized,  they  said 
that  their  minds  were  very  happy  ;  come  life,  come  death, 
they  were  disciples  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  for  life  and 
forever. 

February  8.     We  baptized  Moung  Zu-thee,  who  has  been 


SECOND    PASTOR    ORDAINED.  469 

an  inquirer  several  months,  but  has  only  lately  given  us  much 
encouragement.  He  appears  now  to  have  embraced  the  reli- 
gion most  cordially. 

22.  We  baptized  Thomas  the  second,  (referred  to  January 
25.)  He  has  been  kept  back  a  month,  through  the  opposition 
of  certain  Roman  Catholics,  with  whom  he  was  in  some  way 
connected. 

We  have  also  ordained  Moung  Ing,  pastor  of  the  church 
at  Amherst.  That  church  consisted  of  three — Mah  Loon- 
byay,  who  was  baptized  while  we  lived  there,  and  has  never 
left  the  place ;  Mah  Kai,  and  her  daughter,  Mee  A,  who 
have  lately  moved  thither.  To  these  are  now  added  Pastor 
Moung  Ing,  and  his  wife,  Mah  Lan.  May  the  five  become 
five  hundred.  May  the  seed  formerly  sown  in  weakness  and 
tears  yet  spring  up  and  bear  fruit.  May  the  last  efforts  of 
the  one  we  have  lost,  whose  setting  rays  sunk  in  death  be- 
neath the  hope  tree,  prove  not  to  have  been  in  vain  ;  and  may 
the  prayers  which  ascended  from  her  dying  bed  be  yet  heard 
and  answered  in  blessings  upon  Amherst. 

26.  A  letter  from  Moung  Thah-a,  of  Rangoon.  He  states 
that  he  has  baptized  Ko  Thah-doke,  who  has  long  given  satis- 
factory evidence  of  piety  ;  and  that  two  others,  relatives  of 
Moung  Kywet-nee,  one  of  the  three  baptized  up  the  country, 
have  requested  baptism,  and  their  case  is  befoi'e  the  church. 
He  divides  his  time  between  Rangoon  and  the  villages  of 
Kam-bet  and  Anan-ben,  where  the  later  converts  live. 

March  5.  Several  other  letters  from  the  members  of  the 
church  in  Rangoon ;  and  among  the  rest,  one  from  Mah  Ing, 
mentioned  in  the  last  pages  of  the  history  of  the  Burman  mis- 
sion, in  the  year  1822,  but  not  heard  of  for  several  succeed- 
ing years.  She  expresses  her  joy  on  meeting  with  the  teacher 
Thah-a,  and  receiving  instruction  from  him  concerning  the  reli- 
gion of  Christ,  to  which  she  professes  to  have  maintained  a  per- 
maijent  attachment. 

8.  We  baptized  Mah  Zu-ga-len,  a  blind  woman,  related  to 
Mah  Tee,  a  person  of  good  sense  and  decided  piety. 

22.  Three  English  soldiers  followed  their  Lord  and  Master 
VOL.  I.  40 


470  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

into  the  watery  grave.  They  have  been  in  the  habit  of  at- 
tending certain  evening  meetings,  in  which  we  have  lately 
indulged  ourselves  a  Httle,  though  averse  to  every  interruption 
to  native  work.  These  soldiers  we  have  not  received  into  the 
Maulmain  church,  but  have  recognized  them  to  be  the  Baptist 
church  in  his  majesty's  4oth  regiment. 

May  29.  I  perceive  that  I  have  neglected  my  journal  for  a 
long  time,  having  been  chiefly  engaged  in  going  forward  with 
the  revision  of  the  New  Testament.  Brother  and  sister  Wade 
have  done  all  the  itinerating  ;  and  many  interesting  tales  they 
have  to  tell  at  night,  but  I  believe  they  put  very  little  on 
paper.  Tj-uth  is  spreading  slowly  on  every  side  ;  prejudices 
are  weakening  ;  opposition  is  growing  more  violent  in  some 
parts,  and  in  other  parts  it  seems  subsiding.  The  husband  of 
Mah  Kyan,  who  tore  his  infant  from  the  mother's  breast,  and 
pursued  his  poor  wife  through  the  street  with  a  great  knife, 
has  become  a  lamb.  He  has  made  a  comfortable  place  in  his 
house  for  Mrs.  Wade  to  sit  and  receive  company,  to  the  great 
annoyance  of  other  opposers  in  that  quarter.  Mah  Gatee  has 
persuaded  her  husband  to  come  and  live  near  us,  that  they  may 
attend  the  daily  evening  worship,  though  his  mother  is  still 
outrageous.  They  are  a  young,  interesting  couple,  very  fond 
of  one  another.  It  was  a  great  trial  for  poor  Mah  Gatee  to 
be  baptized  against  his  will. 

We  have  received  five  since  the  last  date  —  Moung  Taw- 
magnay  and  Mah  San,  the  first  couple  that  we  have  had  the 
pleasure  of  baptizing  together  ;  Moung  Toot,  brother  of  Mah 
San,  and  Moung  Gatee,  a  young  man  of  some  promise  ;  Mah 
Foot,  wife  of  Moung  Zu-thee,  wild  as  the  woods,  and  formerly  as 
mischievous  as  possible ;  and  Ko  Man-poke,  husband  of  Mah 
Tee,  (see  December  7,)  a  steady,  excellent  old  man,  a  con- 
siderable scholar  in  the  Taling  language.  He  has  translated 
all  our  Burmese  tracts  into  the  Taling,  and  will  perhaps  be 
encouraged  to  go  on  with  some  parts  of  the  New  Testament. 
We  consider  him  as  one  of  the  most  valuable  accessions  to  the 
cause  that  we  have  ever  received  ;  and  his  wife  stands  almost 
unrivalled  among  the  female  converts.     She  always  accompa- 


APPLICANTS    FOR    BAPTISM.  471 

nies  Mrs.  Wade,  and  is  of  inestimable  use  in  explaining  things 
in  the  Talin2;  to  those  who  cannot  well  understand  the  Bur- 
mese ;  and  that  is  the  case  with  a  great  part  of  the  population 
of  British  Pegu. 

No  case  of  church  discipline  has  yet  occurred  ;  but  INIah  Kai, 
at  Amherst,  occasions  us  much  sorrow.  We  hear  that  her  hus- 
band forces  her  to  follow  him  to  the  house  of  Rimmon,  and  that 
she  there  bows  down,  when  I  fear  she  has  not  Naaman's  ex- 
cuse for  so  doing.  Two  of  the  Hindoo  members  also  give  us 
trouble,  and  we  fear  that  their  case  must  come  before  the  church. 
Instances  of  irregularity  and  sin  do  sometimes  occur  ;  but  our 
efforts  in  the  way  of  private  exhortation  and  persuasion  have 
been  hitherto  blessed  to  the  promotion  of  that  repentance  and 
reformation  which  make  amends  for  all. 

June  7,  Lord's  day.  Several  applications  for  baptism  have 
lately  been  refused,  the  applicants  being  relatives  of  profess- 
ors of  religion,  and  influenced,  we  fear,  by  the  example  and 
persuasion  of  others,  rather  than  by  the  impulse  of  grace. 
To-day,  however,  a  clear  case  occurred  —  an  old  lady,  eighty 
years  of  age,  mother-in-law  of  a  petty  chief,  who  is  one  of  our 
bitterest  opposers.  She  commenced  her  inquiries  several 
months  ago  with  a  great  deal  of  timidity.  And  though  she 
has  acquired  a  little  courage,  and  is  a  person  of  considerable 
presence,  she  almost  trembles  under  a  sense  of  the  great  respon- 
sibility of  changing  her  religion.  Such  being  her  character, 
the  promptness  with  which  she  answered  our  questions,  before 
the  church,  affected  us  even  to  tears.  "  How  old  are  you, 
mother  ?  "  "  Eighty  years."  "  Can  you,  at  such  an  age,  re- 
nounce the  religion  that  you  have  followed  all  your  life  long  ?  '* 
"  I  see  that  it  is  false,  and  I  renounce  it  all."  "  Why  do  you 
wish  to  be  baptized  into  the  religion  of  Jesus  Christ  ?  "  "I 
have  very,  very  many  sins ;  and  I  love  the  Lord,  who  saves 
from  sin."  "  Perhaps  your  son-in-law,  on  hearing  that  you 
have  been  baptized,  will  abuse  you,  and  turn  you  out  of  doors." 
"  I  have  another  son-in-law,  to  whom  I  will  flee."  "  But  he 
also  is  an  opposer  :  suppose  that  you  should  meet  with  the 
same  treatment  there."     "  You  will,  I  think,  let  me  come  and 


472  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

live  near  you."  We  made  no  reply,  willing  that  she  should 
prove  her  sincerity  by  bearing  the  brunt  alone.  Her  name  is 
Mai  Hlah.  Behold  this  venerable  woman,  severing,  at  her 
time  of  life,  all  the  ties  which  bind  her  to  a  large  circle  of 
connections  and  friends,  hazarding  the  loss  of  a  comfortable, 
respectable  situation,  the  loss  of  character,  the  loss  of  a  shelter 
for  her  grey  head,  throwing  herself  on  the  charity  of  certain 
foreigners,  and  all  for  the  sake  of  "  the  Lord  who  saves  from 
sin."     O,  blessed  efficacy  of  the  love  of  Christ ! 

12.  A  letter  from  Ko  Thah-a  of  Rangoon.  Last  Lord's 
day  he  baptized  Moung  Au  and  Moung  Shwa-bo,  inhab- 
itants of  Pah-zoon-doung,  the  former  residence  of  Moung 
Shwa-gnong. 

August  12.  Since  the  last  date,  we  have  baptized  two 
persons  —  Ko  Zen,  a  relative  of  Ko  Man-poke,  and  Mah  Ta- 
kau,  wife  of  Ko  Shan.  Mai  Hlah,  mentioned  above,  soon 
after  her  baptism,  left  her  son-in-law's  house,  where  she  had 
been  living,  and  took  refuge  with  her  elder  daughter,  Mah 
Men,  mentioned  formerly  as  a  hopeful  inquirer,  but  subse- 
quently delinquent.  She  begins  now  to  give  some  evidence 
of  grace  ;  and  even  her  husband  has  become  rather  favorably 
disposed. 

Letters  from  Rangoon  mention  the  baptism  of  two  more 
persons,  distant  relatives  of  Thah-a.  All  the  converts  behave 
well,  and  the  number  of  inquirers  is  increasing.  But  the 
chief  of  Kam-bet  has  commenced  a  course  of  petty  oppres- 
sion, in  consequence  of  which  the  disciples  are  obhged  to  be 
silent  in  that  quarter. 

The  doctor  Oo  Yan,  whose  name  sometimes  occurred  in  the 
annals  of  the  Rangoon  mission,  is  no  more.  He  appeared 
once  to  be  very  near  the  kingdom  of  heaven  ;  but,  alas  for 
his  poor  soul !  the  fear  of  man  finally  prevailed. 

August  29.  A  letter  from  Rangoon  mentions  the  baptism 
of  two  others,  one  of  them  a  nephew  of  Mah  Men-la.  It 
appears,  also,  that  a  nephew  of  Thah-a  was  baptized  several 
months  ago,  of  whom  we  had  not  before  heard  ;  so  that  the 
church  at  present  consists  of  eleven  membere  baptized  by  the 


FILIAL    AFFECTION. 


473 


present  pastor,  besides  three  or  four  who  remain  of  the  old 
stock. 

To  his  Mother  and  Sister. 

Maulmaix,  March  19,  1829. 

My  dear  Mother  and  Sister  :  Your  letters  of  May 
last  I  have  just  received.  I  think  it  probable  that,  soon  after 
you  wrote,  you  received  mine  of  December,  1827,  in  answer 
to  yours  of  February,  same  year,  and  which  contained,  as 
well  as  I  knew  how,  a  quitclaim,  as  you  requested.  In 
regard  to  the  twenty  dollars,  I  have  no  occasion  for  the 
money,  and  present  it  to  you,  my  sister,  in  remembrance 
of  that  handful  of  money  which  you  gave  me  when  we 
parted  in  Boston  for  the  last  time.  But  I  give  it  on 
the  express  condition  that  you  appropriate  part  of  it  to 
purchase  for  yourself  the  Life  of  Lady  Guion,  a  work  which 
was  published  in  New  York,  in  the  year  1820,  in  one  volume 
8vo.  Lincoln  and  Edmands  will,  doubtless,  be  able  to  get  it 
for  you.  And  I  hope  you  will  read  it  diligently,  and  endeavor 
to  imitate  that  most  excellent  saint,  so  far  as  she  was  right. 
Two  ether  books  that  I  would  particularly  recommend  to 
you  are  Law's  Serious  Call,  and  his  Treatise  on  Christian 
Perfection. 

As  to  you,  my  dear  mother,  do  not  think  that  I  can  ever 
forget  you.  When  I  used  to  carry  about  my  poor  little 
Maria,  1  thought  how  much  my  mother  loved  her  little 
Adoniram,  and  carried  him  about,  and  took  care  of  him. 
And  though  he  has  now  grown  almost  out  of  her  knowledge, 
and  been  parted  many  years,  and  will  probably  see  her  no 
more  on  earth,  he  never  can  forget  how  much  he  owes  to  his 
owii  dear  mother.  It  is  my  comfort  that,  if  truly  united  to 
Christ,  we  shall,  at  last,  meet  on  the  bright  plains  of  heaven, 
where  all  our  infirmities,  and  griefs,  and  sins  will  have  fled 
away  forever. 

I  shall  never  need  any  pecuniary  aid  from  either  of  you. 
I  thank  you  for  your  kind  offers,  but  you  can  help  me  in  no 
other  way  than  by  your  prayers. 
40* 


474  MEMOIR    OF    DR.   JUDSON. 

My  dear  sister,  I  shall  never  forget  the  years  of  childhood ; 
and  now  I  regard  you  as  a  sister  in  Christ,  and  therefore 
doubly  dear.  Perhaps,  if  mother  should  be  taken  away  before 
you,  you  might  scrape  together  your  little  property,  and  find 
your  way  out  to  me.  You  would  soon  pick  up  enough  of  the 
language  to  make  yourself  very  useful  in  various  ways,  par- 
ticularly in  the  girls'  school,  which  Mrs.  Wade  has  been 
obliged  to  give  up,  she  has  so  much  to  do  among  the  women. 
Pray  daily  to  God  that  he  would  show  you  the  way  in  which 
you  can  be  most  useful  to  his  cause,  the  little  while  you  have 
to  live  in  this  probationary  state.  Don't  think  of  living  for 
yourself,  but  for  Him  who  has  died  for  your  soul. 

May  God  bless  you  both  here  below,  and  prepare  you  for 
all  his  will,  and  for  his  heavenly  glory,  is  the  prayer  of 

Your  ever  affectionate, 

A.    JUDSON. 

May  14,  1829. 

1.  Ooserve  the  seven  seasons  of  secret  prayer  every  day. 

2.  "  Set  a  watch  before  my  mouth,  and  keep  the  door  of 
my  lips." 

3.  See  the  hand  of  God  in  all  events,  and  thereby  become 
reconciled  to  his  dispensations. 

4.  Embrace  every  opportunity  of  exercising  kind  feelings, 
and  doing  good  to  others,  especially  to  the  household  of  faith. 

5.  Consult  the  internal  monitor  on  every  occasion,  and 
instantly  comply  with  his  dictates. 

6.  Believe  in  the  doctrine  of  perfect  sanctification  attain- 
able in  this  life. 

To  his  Sister,  at  'Plymouth. 

Maulmain,  May  28,  1829. 
My  dear  Sister  :  Yours  of  October  16th  last  arrived  yes- 
terday. In  regard  to  the  quitclaim,  it  is  impossible  for  me  to 
ascertain,  at  this  distance,  what  particular  forms  are  required 
by  the  laws  of  the  United  States.  But  if  you,  or  brother,  or 
any  person  will  send  me   such  an  instrument  as  the  case  re- 


DESTRUCTION    OP^    HIS    PAPERS.  475 

quires,  I  will  complete  and  return  it.  I  am  rather  glad,  how- 
ever, that  the  first  did  not  answer,  because  I  have  now  a  re- 
quest to  make  which  I  doubt  whether  you  would  comply  with, 
it'  I  did  not  make  your  compliance  a  condition  of  my  return- 
ing you  the  said  instrument.  My  request  is,  that  you  will  en- 
tirely destroy  all  my  old  letters  which  are  in  your  and  moth- 
er's hands,  unless  it  be  three  or  four  of  the  later  ones,  which 
you  may  wish  to  keep  as  mementoes.  There  are  several  rea- 
sons for  this  measure,  which  it  would  take  too  much  time  to 
detail.  Suffice  it  to  say,  that  I  am  so  very  desirous  of  effect- 
ing a  complete  destruction  of  all  my  old  waitings,  that  you 
must  allow  me  to  say  positively,  (as  the  only  means  of  bring- 
ing you  to  terms,)  that  I  cannot  send  you  the  instrument  you 
desire  until  I  have  an  assurance,  under  your  hand,  that  there 
is  nothing  remaining,  except  as  mentioned  above. 

I  should  exceedingly  rejoice  to  be  once  more  in  the  old 
mansion  house  at  Plymouth,  and  sit  and  converse  with  my 
own  dear  mother  and  sister  ;  but  that  time  can  never  come. 
Let  us  look  forward  to  a  happy  meeting  in  the  mansions  of 
our  Father's  house  on  high.  I  am  afraid  that  poor  Elnathan 
will  not  be  of  our  happy  number.  Let  us  all  pray  more  fer- 
vently for  him,  and  perhaps  our  prayers  will  at  last  be  heard. 
I  have  not  had  a  letter  from  him  for  a  long  time. 

With  never-ceasing  love  to  mother,  I  remain. 

Your  affectionate  brother, 

A.  JUDSON. 

To  the  Correspoiuling  Secretanj. 

Maulmaix,  June  19,  1829. 
My  dear  Sir  :  I  propose,  from  this  date,  to  lessen  ray 
usual  allowance  by  one  quarter,  finding,  from  experience,  that 
my  present  mode  of  living  will  admit  the  retrenchment ;  this 
arrangement  not  to  interfere  with  the  proposals  made  under 
date  of  September  last,  concerning  the  one  twentieth  and 
one  tenth. 

Yours  faithfully, 

A.  JuDSON. 


476  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

To  Mrs.  Hasscltine,  Bradford. 

The  Solitary's  Lament. 

•«  Together  let  us  sweetly  live, 

Together  let  us  die, 
And  hand  in  hand  those  crowns  receive 

That  wait  us  in  the  sky." 

Thus  Anne  and  I,  for  many  a  year, 
Together  raised  our  prayer  ; 

One  half  reached  Heaven's  propitious  ear, 
One  half  was  lost  in  ah*. 

She  found  a  distant,  lonely  grave. 
Her  foreign  friends  among  ; 

No  kmdred  spirit  came  to  save, 
None  o'er  her  death  bed  hung. 

Her  dying  thoughts  we  fain  would  know  ; 

But  who  the  tale  can  tell, 
Save  only  that  she  met  the  foe. 

And  where  tliey  met  she  fell. 

And  when  I  came,  and  saw  her  not 

In  all  the  place  arou.nd. 
They  pointed  out  a  grassy  spot, 

Where  she  lay  under  ground. 

And  soon  another  loved  one  fled. 
And  sought  her  mother's  side  ; 

In  vain  I  stayed  her  drooping  head  ; 
She  panted,  gasped,  and  died. 

Thus  one  in  beauty's  bright  array. 
And  one  all  poor  and  pale. 

Have  left  alike  the  realms  of  day, 
And  wandered  down  the  vale,  — 

The  vale  of  death,  so  dark  and  drear, 
Where  all  things  are  forgot ; 

Where  lie  they  whom  I  loved  so  dear  ; 
I  call  —  they  answer  not. 


WORKS    PREPARED    FOR    THE    PRESS.  477 

O,  bitter  cup  which  God  has  given  ! 
'  Where  can  relief  be  found  ? 

Anon  I  liit  my  eyes  to  heaven, 
Anon  iii  tears  they're  djrowned. 

Yet  He  who  conquered  death  and  hell 

Our  Friend  at  last  will  stand  ; 
And  all  whom  he  befriends  shall  dwell 

In  Canaan's  happy  land,  — 

Shall  joyful  meet,  no  more  to  part, 

No  more  be  forced  to  sigh, 
That  death  will  chill  the  warmest  heart, 

And  rend  the  closest  tie. 

Such  promise  throws  a  rainbow  bright 

Death's  darkest  storm  above, 
And  bids  us  catch  the  heaven-born  light, 

And  praise  the  God  of  love. 

My  dear  Mother  Hasseltine:  I  wrote  the  above 
lines  some  time  ago,  and  intended  to  add  a  longer  postscript ; 
but  find  myself  pressed  for  time  at  the  present  moment. 

It  is  a  long  time  since  I  had  a  line  from  any  of  your  family. 
I  hope  you  will  not  quite  forget  me,  but  believe  me  ever, 
Yours  most  affectionately, 

A.  JUDSON. 

August  17,  1829. 

Journal  continued. 

November  29,  1829.  Since  my  last,  we  nave  finished  re- 
vising the  New  Testament  and  the  Epitome  of  the  Old  —  a 
work  in  which  we  have  been  closely  engaged  for  above  a 
year.  We  have  also  prepared  for  the  press  several  smaller 
works,  viz. :  — 

1.  The  Catechism  of  Religion.  This  has  already  passed 
through  two  editions  in  Burmese.  It  has  also  been  translated 
and  printed  into  Siamese,  and  translated  into  Taling  or  Pegiian. 

2.  The  View  of  the  Christian  Religion,  thoroughly  revised 


478  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

for  a  fourth  edition  in  Burmese.     It  has  also  been  translated 
into  Taling  and  Siamese. 

3.  The  Liturgy  of  the  Burman  Church. 

4.  The  Baptismal  Service. 

5.  The  Marriage  Service. 

6.  The  Funeral  Service ;  the  three  last  consisting  chiefly 
of  extracts  from  Scripture. 

7.  The  Teacher's  Guide  ;  or,  a  Digest  of  those  parts  of  the 
New  Testament  which  relate  to  the  Duty  of  Teachers  of  Re- 
ligion, designed  particularly  for  Native  Pastors.' 

8.  A  Catechism  of  Astronomy. 

9.  A  Catechism  of  Geography. 

]  0.  A  Table  of  Chronological  History,  or  a  Register  of 
principal  Events  from  the  Creation  to  the  present  Time. 

11.  The  Memoir  of  Mee  Shway-ee. 

12.  The  Golden  Balance  ;  or,  the  Christian  and  Boodhist 
Systems  contrasted.     This  has  been  translated  into  Taling. 

The  Gospel  of  St.  Matthew  was  also  translated  into  Siamese 
by  Mrs.  Judson,  and  is  now  being  translated  into  Taling  by 
Ko  Man-poke,  our  assistant  in  that  department. 

Mah  Men,  mentioned  August  13,  daughter  of  Mai  Hlah, 
has  been  baptized,  and  Mah  Men-san,  half  sister  of  Mah  Tee, 
resident  at  Pah-ouk,  a  village  between  this  and  Amherst. 
Four  European  soldiers  also  have  joined  the  little  church  in 
the  English  forty-fifth  regiment.  Between  ten  and  twenty 
attend  our  English  worship  Lord's  day  morning  and  evening, 
and  Friday  evening,  some  of  whom  are  very  hopeful  inquirers. 

As  to  the  Hindoo  branch  of  the  church,  composed  of  six 
members,  we  found  them  so  ignorant  of  both  English  and 
Burmese  as  to  be  neither  capable  nor  desirous  of  attending 
worship  with  us ;  and  we  therefore  set  them  off  as  a  distinct 
church.  But  the  principal  member,  he  who  acted  as  inter- 
preter, and  in  whom  wc  had  most  confidence,  having  proved  a 
very  fickle,  unsteady  character,  and  ceased  to  be  in  the  em- 
ploy of  the  mission,  and  some  of  the  others  having  moved 
away,  we  have  no  hope,  at  present,  of  doing  any  thing  further 
in  that  department. 


BAPTISMS    OF    THE    YEAR.  479 

At  Rangoon,  five  more  have  been  baptized  —  three  men  and 
two  women.  Poor  Mah  Ing,  mentioned  March  5,  had  finally 
requested  baptism,  and  been  accepted  by  the  church ;  but  jjre- 
vious  to  the  administration,  she  was  taken  ill  with  a  fever,  and 
died.  We  have  heard,  also,  of  the  baptism  of  three  more 
Karens  at  Tavoy,  since  brother  Boardman's  return. 

In  regard  to  Amherst,  the  prospect  is  quite  dark.  Moung 
Ing  has  had  no  success  at  all,  though  he  has  not  been  wanting 
in  diligence  and  faithfulness.  At  length  we  advised  him  to 
remove  to  Tavoy.  He,  however,  preferred  Rangoon,  and  is 
now  cooperating  with  Ko  Thah-a.  His  wife  remained  behind. 
Her  conduct  has  been  very  exceptionable  since  her  baptism, 
and  soon  after  her  husband's  departure,  she  became  openly 
vicious.  She  is  now  suspended  from  communion  —  the  first 
case  of  church  discipline  that  has  occurred  amongst  the  native 
members. 

December  31.  Since  my  last,  Moung  Poo,  husband  of 
Mah  Men-san,  mentioned  November  29,  has  been  baptized 
at  Pah-ouk,  and  last  Lord's  day  three  more  soldiers  were 
baptized  in  this  place,  making  twenty-eight  individuals  this 
year;  not  quite  so  many  as  were  baptized  last  year,  besides 
which,  ten  of  the  number  are  Englishmen.  However,  Ran- 
goon furnishes  a  reenforcement  of  seventeen  Burjnans,  (four 
lately,)  and  Tavoy  another  reenforcement  of  eight,  mostly 
Karens,  making  a  total  of  fifty-three. 

Our  Taling  translator  has  added  the  Gospel  of  St.  Matthew 
to  his  little  stock  of  tracts,  and  we  have  just  appointed  a  com- 
mittee to  unite  with  him  in  examining  and  revising  his  work. 

January  15,  1830.  Brother  and  sister  Bennett  arrived  last 
night,  with  their  two  children  —  all  quite  well. 

To  his  Sister,  Miss  A.  B.  Jndson. 

Maulmain,  December  21,  1829. 
My  dear  Sister  :  I  have  just  received  yours  of  May  25 
last,  giving  an  account  of  Elnathan's  death,  and  also  Dr.  Sew- 
all's  detail  of  his  dying  exercises.     Perhaps  you  have  not 


480  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

seen  Dr.  Sewall's  letter.  It  closes  thus  :  "  A  few  hours  before 
his  death,  and  when  he  was  so  low  as  to  be  unable  to  converse 
or  to  move,  he  suddenly  raised  himself  up,  and  clasping  his 
hands,  with  an  expression  of  joy  in  his  countenance,  cried, 
*  Peace,  peace /' £Lnd  then  he  sunk  down,  without  the  power 
of  utterance.  About  ten  minutes  before  he  expired,  it  was 
said  to  him,  '  If  you  feel  the  peace  of  God  in  your  soul,  open 
your  eyes.'  He  opened  his  eyes,  and  soon  after  expired,  and, 
as  we  believe,  in  the  triumphs  of  faith."  When  I  read  this 
account,  I  went  into  my  little  room,  and  could  only  shed  tears 
of  joy,  my  heart  full  of  gratitude,  and  my  tongue  of  praise.  I 
have  felt  most  anxious  about  him  for  a  long  time ;  to  hear  at 
last  that  there  is  some  good  reason  to  conclude  that  he  has 
gone  to  heaven  is  enough.  So  we  are  dying,  one  after  another. 
We  shall  all  be  there,  I  trust,  before  long.  I  send  you  and 
mother  a  little  tract,  which  I  beg  you  will  study  prayerfully. 
Let  me  urge  you  frequently  to  reexamine  the  foundation  of 
your  hope.  O,  it  a  solemn  thing  to  die  —  an  awful  thing  to 
go  into  eternity,  and  discover  that  we  have  been  deceiving 
ourselves !  Let  us  depend  upon  it  that  nothing  but  real  faith 
in  Christ,  proved  to  be  genuine  by  a  holy  life,  can  support 
us  at  last.  That  faith  which  consists  merely  in  a  correct 
belief  of  the  doctrines  of  grace,  and  prompts  to  no  self-denial, 
—  that  faith  which  allows  us  to  spend  all  our  days  in  serving 
self,  content  with  merely  refraining  from  outward  sins,  and 
attending  to  the  ordinary  duties  of  religion,  —  is  no  faith  at  all. 
O,  let  me  beg  of  you  to  look  well  into  this  matter !  And  let 
me  beg  my  dear  mother,  in  her  old  age,  and  in  view  of  the 
near  approach  of  death  and  eternity,  to  examine  again  and 
again  whether  her  faith  is  of  the  right  kind.  Is  it  that  faith 
which  gives  her  more  enjoyment  in  Jesus,  from  day  to  day, 
than  she  finds  in  any  thing  else  ? 

May  God  bless  you  both  is  the  fervent  prayer  of 
Your  affectionate  brother, 

A. JUDSON. 


THE    MEMOIR    OF    HIS    WITE.  481 

To  the  Rev.  Professor  Knowlcs. 

Maulmain,  December  21,  1829. 

Dear  Brother  Kxowles  :  Yours  of  October  9  and  May 
25  I  have  received,  together  with  a  dozen  of  the  Memoir,  and 
the  books  pertaining  to  biblical  criticism,  &c.,  that  you  men- 
tion. The  box  containing  tlie  books  and  sundry  articles  for 
the  school  has  been  forwarded  from  Bengal,  where  brother 
Bennett  remains,  of  whose  arrival  we  have  just  heard. 

For  some  of  the  books  that  have  now  arrived  I  have  longed, 
the  past  year  or  two,  beyond  the  power  of  language  to  express. 
We  have  just  finished  our  final  revision  of  the  New^  Testa- 
ment, and  I  am  contemplating  a  return  to  Eangoon.  I  have 
felt  a  more  than  ordinary  incitement  to  do  so ;  but  whether  it 
is  from  God,  and  whether  it  is  certainly  my  duty,  I  cannot 
fully  decide.  My  brethren  approve  of  the  measure  ;  but  they 
did  not  propose  it,  and  I  sometimes  fear  that  their  approba- 
tion is  mere  acquiescence.     May  the  Lord  direct. 

In  regard  to  the  Memoir,  it  becomes  me  not  to  expatiate. 
I  would  only  say  that  I  am  extremely  gratified,  perhaps  too 
much  so,  with  the  execution  of  the  work  in  all  its  parts.  Some 
inaccuracies  will,  of  course,  be  noticed  by  those  who  are  per- 
sonally acquainted  with  the  scenes  and  events  described ;  but 
they  are  not  important.  It  may,  however,  be  well  for  me  to 
mention,  with  a  view  to  some  future  edition,  that  Amherst  is 
situated  at  the  mouth  of  the  river,  and  that  the  population  of 
all  British  Pegu,  as  we  sometimes  term  the  ceded  provinces 
on  this  coast,  does  not  probably  exceed  one  hundred  thousand. 
Yours  most  affectionately, 

A.  JUDSON. 

To  Mrs.  J.  W.,  a  Friend  of  Mrs.  Ann  H.  Judson,  Loyidon. 

Maul^iain,  December  22,  1829. 
My  dear  Mrs.  W.  :   The  return  of  the  birthday  of  my 
beloved,  sainted  Ann,  reminds  me  of  her  friends,  and  partic- 
ularly of  you,  one  of  her  dearest  and  best.     Your  letter,  also, 
of  the  10th  of  April  last,  is  lying  before  me.     The  inquiries 
VOL.   I.  41 


482  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

in  that  letter  you  will  find  all  answered  in  the  Memoir  pub- 
lished by  Mr.  Knowles,  a  copy  of  which  has  doubtless  reached 
you.  You  will  notice  some  inaccuracies  in  the  accounts  of 
these  provinces.  For  instance,  Amherst  is  situated  at  the 
mouth  of  the  river,  and  the  population  of  all  British  Pegu 
does  not  probably  exceed  one  hundred  thousand.  The  color- 
ing, also,  of  our  present  misssionary  prospects  is  much  too 
high.  Concerning  some  other  inaccuracies  it  becomes  not  me 
to  speak. 

Mrs.  Judson's  accounts  of  you  I  have  listened  to,  and  your 
letters  to  her  I  have  read  with  much  pleasure.  But  0  that 
you  were  as  eminent  in  piety  as  you  are  distinguished  by 
beauty,  talents,  and  elegant  accomplishments.  Let  me  beg  of 
you  not  to  rest  contented  with  the  commonplace  religion  that 
is  now  prevalent.  Let  me  respectfully  call  your  attention  to 
the  example  of  such  women  as  Madame  Chantal,  Madame 
Bourignon,  and  Lady  Guion.  I  have  really  learned  to  la- 
ment the  early  death  of  my  beloved  wife,  chiefly  because  it 
has  deprived  me  of  an  opportunity  of  leading  her  into  paths 
that  I  have  but  lately  discovered  myself;  discovered,  I  say,  not 
entered.  God  give  me  grace  for  the  latter.  How  much,  my 
dear  madam,  beloved  friend  of  my  beloved  Ann,  have  I  to 
say  to  you  on  the  subject  I  have  now  introduced !  But  I  must 
forbear.  I  have  relinquished  almost  all  foreign  correspond- 
ence for  above  a  year  ;  and,  really,  my  principal  object  in 
taking  up  my  pen  just  now  is  to  enclose  a  little  tract,*  which, 
being  printed  in  Bengal  only,  you  have  probably  not  seen. 
The  author,  it  seems,  from  not  atfixing  his  name,  desires  to 
remain  unknown. 

Your  affectionate  brother  in  Christ, 

A.  JuDSON. 

Maulmain,  October  24,  1828. 
My  dear   Sisters   M.  and  A. :  You  see  from  the  date 
that  it  is  the  second  anniversary  of  the  triumph  of  death  over 

*  The  Threefold  Cord.     See  Appendix. 


SECLUSION.  483 

all  my  hopes  of  earthly  bliss.  I  have  this  day  moved  into  a 
small  cottage,  which  I  have  built  in  the  woods,  away  from  the 
haunts  of  men.  It  proves  a  stormy  evening,  and  the  desola- 
tion around  me  accords  with  the  desolate  state  of  my  own 
mind,  where  grief  for  the  dear  departed  combines  with  sor- 
row for  present  sin,  and  my  tears  flow  at  the  same  time  over 
the  forsaken  grave  of  my  love  and  over  the  loathsome  sepul- 
chre of  my  own  heart. 

October  24,  1829. 
And'  now  the  third  anniversary  returns,  and  finds  me  in  the 
same  cottage,  except  it  has  been  removed  nearer  the  mission 
bouse,  to  make  way  for  a  government  building.  I  live  alone. 
When  I  wish  to  be  quite  so,  Mrs.  W.  sends  me  my  food ;  at 
other  times  I  am  within  the  sound  of  a  bell  that  calls  me  to 
meals. 

"  Blest  who,  far  from  all  mankind, 
This  world's  shadows  left  behind. 
Hears  from  heaven  a  gentle  strain, 
AVliispering  love,  and  loves  again." 

But  O,  that  strain  I  have  hitherto  listened  in  vain  to  hear,  or 
rather  have  not  listened  aright,  and  therefore  cannot  hear. 

Have  either  of  you  learned  the  art  of  real  communion  with 
God,  and  can  you  teach  me  the  first  principles  ?  God  is  to  me 
the  Great  Unknown.     I  believe  in  him,  but  I  find  him  not. 

March,  1830. 
Since  writing  the  above,  dear  brother  and  sister  Wade  have 
left  me  for  Rangoon,  and  I  have  found  new  friends  in  brother 
and  sister  Bennett.  Thus  one  scene  succeeds  another,  and 
draws  on  to  the  final  catastrophe.  It  is  long  since  I  have 
had  a  line  from  B.,  and  I  fancy  you  have  about  forgotten 
me  by  this  time.  So  fare  ye  well,  and  may  blessings  ever 
rest  on  you  both,  and  on  your  parents,  and  on  all  the  branches 
of  the  family. 

Your  affectionate  brother, 

A. JUDSON. 


484  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

Continuation  of  his  Journal. 

March  4,  1830.  Since  my  last  we  have  baptized  two  na- 
tive women  and  two  Europeans,  Mrs.  B.  and  a  soldier  from 
the  forty-fifth  regiment.  Dear  brother  and  sister  Wade  left 
us  for  Rangoon  the  21st  of  last  month.  A  day  or  two  after 
their  arrival,  brother  Wade  writes,  "The  Christians  soon 
heard  of  us,  and  Ko  Thah-a  and  a  number  of  his  flock  came 
to  see  us,  and  appeared  very  well.  Some  who  live  at  a  dis- 
tance we  have  not  yet  seen."  Sister  Wade  writes,  "  I  have 
been  surrounded  with  visitors  almost  all  the  time  since  we 
arrived,  and  feel  it  such  a  luxury  to  have  all  the  women  un- 
derstand and  speak  good  Burmese  !  I  had  intended  to  have 
given  you  a  particular  account  of  all  the  disciples,  and  others 
whom  we  have  seen,  but  I  feel  scarcely  able  to  hold  my  pen, 
from  weakness  and  fatigue  ;  and,  as  we  hope  to  see  you  soon, 
I  will  only  say  that  we  are  in  general  much  pleased  with  the 
state  of  things  liere,  and  think  that  God  is  with  our  native 
brother  and  the  little  church." 


CHAPTER     XIII. 

REVISITS  RANGOON.  —  PASSAGE  TO  PROME.  —  SOJOURN  AT 
PROME.  —  RESIDENCE  AT  RANGOON.  —  PROGRESS  IN  TRANS- 
LATING THE  SCRIPTURES.  —  RETURN  TO  MAULMAIN.  —  R& 
VIEW  OF   HIS   AUSTERITIES.  —  THE  KARENS. 

1830-1831. 

Journal. 

Maulmain,  March  22,  1830.  I  am  now  contemplating  a 
visit  to  Rangoon.  Mrs.  Boardman  is  here,  and  we  expect 
that  brother  Boardman  will  remove  hither  shortly. 

Our  reentering  Biirmah  is  an  experiment  which  we  are 
making  with  fear  and  trembling.  Accounts  from  brother  and 
sister  Wade  are  rather  encouraging.  They  both  give  it  as 
their  decided  opinion  that  I  ought  to  join  them  immediately ; 
not  merely  with  a  view  to  Rangoon,  but  to  the  neighboring 
towns,  and  to  all  that  are  afar  off,  even  as  r^  ■  ,ny  as  the  Lord 
our  God  shall  render  accessible. 

The  number  of  native  inquirers  in  this  place  has  lately 
rather  increased.  There  are  about  five  or  six  that  I  hope  are 
near  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  and  as  many  more  among  the 
Europeans. 

April  18.  Some  encouraging  appearances  of  late  have 
made  me  unwilling  to  leave  the  place  until  brother  Boardman 
should  have  actually  arrived.  One  more  European,  a  soldier, 
has  received  baptism,  and  two  natives,  Moung  Dan,  a  young 
man,  related  to  several  of  the  Taling  disciples,  and  Mah  Poo, 
wife  of  McDonald.  To-day,  two  lads,  whose  parents  are 
members  of  the  church,  and  who  both  give  some  evidence  of 
grace,  received  a  final  examination,  but  were  rejected  by  a 
few  dissenting  votes. 

In  the  afternoon,  we  were  surprised  by  a  visit  from  brother 
"Wade,  who  has  had  another  severe  attack  of  the  liver  com- 
plaint, and  has  come  round  for  a  change.  Three  persons 
41  *  485 


486  MEMOIR    OF    I)K.    JUDSON.  • 

have  been  lately  baptized  in  Rangoon,  and  there  are  many 
incjuirers. 

April  21.  A  letter  from  brother  Boardman,  informing  us 
that  he  will  soon  be  here.  I  conclude,  therefore,  to  accom- 
pany brother  Wade  on  his  return  to  Rangoon. 

Rangoon,  May  2.  Arrived  in  this  place,  and  took  up  my 
abode  for  a  few  days,  in  brother  Wade's  hired  house,  in  the 
midst  of  the  town,  where  we  have  a  great  deal  of  company, 
some  of  whom  will,  we  hope,  hear  and  live. 

May  18.  Thinking  it  better  to  reside  in  different  places, 
for  the  more  extensive  diffusion  of  truth,  we  had  a  small 
building  put  up,  for  about  fifty  rupees,  just  without  the 
enclosure  of  the  town,  in  a  place  of  considerable  resort ;  but 
the  neighboring  priests  made  so  much  opposition  that  we  were 
obliged  to  desist,  and  we  conclude  to  remove  the  building  to 
the  old  mission  premises,  though  the  neighborhood  is  deserted. 

The  governor  of  the  town,  formerly  the  "  a-twen-woon 
Moung  K.,"  has  received  me  very  kindly,  and  invited  me  to 
stay  under  his  protection. 

Brother  and  sister  Wade  have  several  hopeful  inquirers. 
My  principal  one  is  a  Thah-tay,  a  person  of  some  little  rank, 
whom  we  formerly  knew  at  Tsa-gaing.  He  is  an  intimate 
friend  of  my  old  protector,  the  north  commandant  of  the 
palace,  and  is  here,  for  a  few  days,  on  some  government 
business.  He  visits  us  almost  every  day,  and  appears,  for  the 
first  time,  to  be  pleased  with  the  truth,  though  he  has  heard 
something  of  it  for  years.  All  the  disciples  that  I  have  seen 
in  this  place  appear  to  have  grace.  A  spirit  of  inquiry  is  more 
prevalent,  and  more  boldly  indulged,  than  formerly,  and  I  feel 
that  we  have  reason  to  thank  God  for  all  the  past,  and  take 
courage  for  the  time  to  come. 

May  23.  The  Thah-tay  is  about  leaving  us  for  Ava.  At 
his  suggestion,  I  send  by  him  letters  to  my  former  acquaint- 
ance, the  north  commandant  of  the  palace,  and  the  Prince 
Myen-zaing. 

May  25.  I  have  not  yet  moved  out  to  the  new  house,  nor 
even  seen  it ;  for  every  day  deepens  the  conviction  in  my  mind 


PREPARING    TO    VISIT    PKOME.  487 

that  I  am  not  in  the  place  where  God  would  have  me  be.  It 
was  to  the  interior,  and  not  to  Rangoon,  that  my  mind  was 
turned  long  before  I  left  Maulraain  ;  and  while  I  feel  that 
brother  and  sister  Wade  are  in  the  right  place,  I  feel  that  I 
am  called  elsewhere.  Under  these  impressions,  I  am  about 
proceeding  up  the  river,  accompanied  by  Moung  Ing,  Moung 
En,  Moung  Dway,  Moung  Dan,  baptized  April  4,  and  little 
JNIoung  Like,  mentioned  April  18,  not  yet  baptized.  The 
boat  on  which  we  embark  will  take  us  to  Prome,  the  great 
half-way  place  between  this  and  Ava,  and  there  I  hope  and 
pray  that  the  Lord  will  show  us  what  to  do. 


To  Mr.  C.  Bennett. 

Rangoon,  May  25,  1830. 
Dear  Brother  Bennett  :  I  have  received  both  yours  of 
May  9  and  14,  with  the  specimens  of  types,  &c.  I  think  that 
the  new  character  is  very  handsome,  and  that  it  is  extremely 
desirable  the  whole  fount  should  be  finished  in  the  same  style. 
But  in  regard  to  questions  pertaining  to  the  printing  depart- 
ment, I  do  not  feel  competent  to  give  any  advice.  I  hope  you 
will  act  according  to  your  best  judgment,  assisted  by  the  advice 
of  brother  Boardman  and  other  brethren  that  may  be  with 
you.  ...  I  expect  in  a  day  or  two  to  leave  this  for 
the  interior.  The  place  that  I  have  immediately  in  view  is 
Prome.  Moung  En  goes  with  me ;  and  I  wish  to  say  to 
you  and  Mrs.  Bennett,  in  behalf  of  his  wife,  that,  in  case 
she  should  cease  to  be  in  the  employ  of  Mrs.  Bennett,  and 
should  be  in  need  of  some  money  for  habitation  or  support, 
you  will  please  to  let  her  have  what  is  proper,  and  put  it 
to  my  account.  Moung  En  is  desirous  of  returning  to  take 
care  of  his  wife :  but  he  is  also  desirous  of  going  with  me ; 
and  as  he  is  the  only  person  of  my  party  who  has  any  ac- 
quaintance with  that  part  of  the  country,  I  am  desirous  of 
taking  him.  And,  on  my  promising  to  write  to  you  as  above, 
he  has  concluded  to  accompany  me,  with  the  expectation  of 
being  absent  from  Maulmain  about  three  months  from  the 


488  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

present  time.  Moung  Dway  also  accompanies  me,  and  Moung 
Dan  and  Moung  Like.  None  of  these  get  any  wages.  The 
latter  is  not  yet  baptized,  but  he  appears  pretty  well.  Pas- 
tor Ing  wants  to  go  up  the  country ;  but  he  is  just  now  taken 
ill,  and  I  think  it  will  prove  an  intimation  of  the  will  of 
God  that  he  is  not  to  go  at  present.  I  asked  Pastor  Thah-a 
to  go ;  but  he  thinks  it  quite  impossible,  on  account  of  hav- 
ing so  many  irons  in  the  fire,  —  that  is,  hopeful  inquirers,  — 
that  he  must  stay  to  bring  forward  and  baptize.  And  he  is 
as  solicitous  and  busy  as  a  hen  pressing  about  her  chickens. 
It  is  quite  refreshing  to  hear  him  talk  on  the  subject,  and 
see  what  a  nice,  careful  old  shepherd  he  makes.  The  Lord 
bless  his  soul,  and  the  souls  of  his  flock  ! 

I  am  glad  to  hear  that  you  are  getting  on  in  the  lan- 
guage. I  beg  you  will  always  make  every  thing  yield  to 
that,  until  you  find  yourself  at  home  among  the  natives.  I 
trust  that  I  need  not  exhort  dear  sister  Bennett  on  this  sub- 
ject. I  should  truly  rejoice  to  see  you  all  a  little  while.  I 
daily  remember  little  Elsina,  but  I  suppose  she  has  forgotten 
her  old  uncle.     The  Lord  bless  you  evermore ! 

A.    JuDSON. 

JjCtter  to  the  Missionaries    at    Rangoon  and  Maulmain,  and  the   Corre- 
sponding Secretary  in  Boston^  U.  S. 

PiioME,  June  15,  1830. 

Dear  Brethren  and  Sisters  :  Foreseeing  that,  during 
my  residence  in  the  interior  of  the  country,  I  shall  be  desi- 
rous of  writing  many  letters  to  my  beloved  brethren  and  sis- 
ters in  Rangoon  and  Maulmain,  in  addition  to  my  usual  cor- 
respondence with  the  board,  and  desirous  of  spending  as  little 
time  as  possible  in  such  employment,  I  propose  to  blend  all 
my  communications  in  one  ;  and,  as  I  have  usually  sent  my 
journal  in  duplicate,  I  shall  now  send  one  copy  to  Rangoon, 
to  be  transmitted  thence  to  Maulmain,  and  thence  to  America, 
and  the  other  copy  I  shall  send  to  America  by  the  most  direct 
conveyance. 

I  proceed,  accordingly,  to  give  you  some  account  of  ray 


PASSAGE    FROM    RANGOON    TO    PROME.  489 

adventures  since  leaving  Rangoon  on  the  29th  of  last  month. 
The  afternoon  of  that  day,  we  reached  Tix-theet,  twelve  or 
fifteen  miles  distant,  and,  the  tide  being  against  us,  we  re- 
mained there  several  hours.  I  went  on  shore,  entered  into 
conversation  with  several,  and  gave  away  a  dozen  of  the  old 
tracts  ;  and  it  was  amusing  and  gratifying  to  see  the  groups 
of  boatmen,  about  sunset,  employed  in  reading  and  listening 
to  the  truth ;  and  some  would  be  constantly  coming  to  our 
boat  for  a  tract.  I  could  have  given  away  a  hundred  to 
advantage ;  for,  though  the  village  contains  but  very  few 
houses,  it  is  a  place  of  rendezvous  for  a  multitude  of  small 
trading  boats.  At  midnight  we  reached  the  cluster  of  villages 
about  Pan-ling,  containing,  I  should  suppose,  a  population  as 
large  as  that  of  Rangoon.  In  the  morning  I  went  on  shore 
at  Kat-tee-yah,  and  spent  a  couple  of  hours  in  preaching  to 
little  assemblies,  and  distributed  about  thirty  of  the  old  cate- 
chism. I  could  have  given  away  two  hundred  with  perfect 
ease,  and  to  the  greatest  advantage  ;  for  tj^ey  would  have 
spread  from  this  central  place  into  every  part  of  the  country. 
It  is  my  way  to  produce  a  few  tracts  or  catechisms,  and  after 
reading  and  talking  a  little,  and  getting  the  company  to  feel 
kindly,  I  oiTer  one  to  the  most  attentive  auditor  present ;  and 
on  showing  some  reluctance  to  give  to  every  person,  and  on 
making  them  promise  to  read  attentively,  and  consider,  and 
pray,  they  get  furious  to  obtain  a  tract,  many  hands  are 
eagerly  stretched  out,  and  "  Give  me  one,  give  me  one," 
resounds  from  all  sides.  On  the  31st  we  reached  Gnettong, 
near  the  great  river.  Just  became  engaged  with  a  few  peo- 
ple, when  the  master  of  our  boat  concluded  to  proceed  far- 
ther. Gave  away  two  tracts.  One  of  them  fell  into  the 
hands  of  a  respectable  elderly  man,  who,  having  read  part  of 
it,  followed  us,  in"  a  small  boat,  to  ask  for  something  more  ; 
and  I  gave  him  a  copy  of  Matthew.  Just  at  dark,  reached 
Yan-gen-tsan-yah,  at  the  entrance  of  the  great  river,  the 
Irrawadi,  fifty  or  sixty  miles  from  Rangoon. 

For  several  days  after  entering  the  Irrawadi,  I  did  nothing, 
scarcely,  on  account  of  the  rainy  weather  and  other  unfavorable 


490  MEMOIR    OF   DR.    JUDSON. 

circumstances.  At  Hen-tha-dali,  ninety  miles  from  Ran- 
goon, I  walked  through  the  place,  though  it  was  very  wet, 
and  gave  away  a  few  tracts.  Moung  En  found  some  rela- 
tions on  shore,  at  whose  house  he  and  another  of  the  disciples 
slept ;  and  they  did  something  in  the  evening. 

The  night  of  the  6th  of  June  we  spent  at  Yay-gen,  a  pretty 
large  village,  just  below  K  a-noung,  on  the  opposite  side  of  the 
river.  Here  the  native  country  of  the  tamarind  tree  com- 
mences, the  banks  of  the  river  become  high  and  pleasant, 
nature  assumes  a  more  interesting  and  commanding  aspect, 
and,  at  this  distance,  even  the  character  of  the  people  always 
seems  to  me  to  be  a  little  more  elevated.  Immediately  on 
landing  I  went  through  the  place,  but  without  any  success,  and 
was  just  coming  off,  when  I  descried  Moung  Ing,  with  half  a 
dozen  about  him.  I  drew  near,  and  very  soon  had  a  large 
and  respectable  assembly,  to  whom  I  held  forth,  and  distrib- 
uted about  thirty  tracts  and  catechisms.  Several  pursued  us 
to  the  boat,  and  .begged  very  hard  ;  and  we  continued  to  give 
away  to  small  parties  who  came  in  succession,  and  occupied 
an  empty  boat  which  lay  between  us  and  the  shore,  till  late 
in  the  evening,  when  our  captain  pushed  off  into  the  river  to 
get  rid  of  the  annoyance.  However,  it  would  not  answer ; 
for  they  came  to  the  shore,  and  called  out,  "  Teacher,  are  you 
asleep  ?  We  want  a  writing  to  get  by  heart."  And,  on 
being  promised  one  if  they  would  come  and  get  it,  they  con- 
trived to  push  off  a  long  canoe  which  lay  between  us  and  the 
said  empty  boat,  and  got  so  near  that  they  could  reach  a 
paper  stuck  in  the  end  of  a  long  pole.  This  continued  till 
nine  o'clock  at  night.  Once,  during  the  evening,  our  captain 
went  on  shore  ;  and  he  said  that  in  almost  every  house  there 
was  some  one  at  a  lamp,  reading  aloud  one  of  our  papers.  I 
felt  some  desire  to  pray  that  it  might  not  be  all  in  vain.  It 
cost  us  not  less  than  sixty  tracts  and  catechisms.  Write  to 
Maulmain  for  several  hundred,  and  ask  brother  Bennett  to 
get  ready  to  print  another  edition.  I  have  already  given 
away  one  quarter  of  my  whole  stock  ;  and  I  shall  have  to 
send  to  you  for  a  supply  before  long. 


PASSAGE    FROM    RANGOOX    TO    PROME.  491 

We  passed  the  large  towns  of  Ka-noung,  Myan-oung,  and 
Kyan-gen,  without  being  able  to  do  any  thing.  But  at  Kyee- 
thai,  a  pretty  large  place,  I  went  on  shore,  and  got  the  start  of 
the  boat  by  about  an  hour,  which  time  I  improved  under  a 
shed,  in  the  midst  of  an  attentive  crowd.  I  gave  away  several 
tracts.  Some  of  the  people  followed  me  to  the  boat,  begging 
the  captain  to  stay  all  night.  And  after  we  had  pushed  off, 
a  little  boat  pursued  us,  with  a  small  offering  of  rice  and 
beans,  begging  another  tract.  It  was  quite  dark  when  we  ar- 
rived at  Shway-doung,  one  of  the  most  populous  places  in  the 
country.  Above  Shway-doung,  we  came  to  the  flourishing 
villages  of  Pyouk-tsik  and  Meudai,  divided  by  a  small  creek. 
The  latter  is  our  captain's  home,  and  he  wished  to  stay  a  day 
or  two,  before  going  to  Prome,  which  is  only  a  few  mUes  dis- 
tant. The  people  at  Mendai  seemed  disposed  to  cavil,  and 
some  of  them  treated  me  rather  uncivilly.  I  gave  away  not 
many  tracts.  Moung  Ing  went  out  to  Men-yoo-ah,  neai'  which 
is  the  residence  of  the  celebrated  Toung-dwen  teacher,  the 
head  of  a  sect  of  heretics  m  this  part  of  the  country  ;  and  in 
that  neighborhood  he  found  our  old  friend  Mai  Zoo,  baptized 
formerly  in  Kangoon.  The  next  morning  she  came  to  the 
boat,  accompanied  by  Mah  Wenyo,  widow  of  Moung  Long, 
the  one-eyed  metaphysician  formerly  mentioned  in  the  annals 
of  the  Rangoon  mission,  who  now  declares  herself  a  Christian, 
and  one  Mah  Ping,  a  very  hopeful  inquirer.  These  women 
all  begged  me  to  stop  one  day,  while  they  could  return  and 
consult  their  male  relations,  whether  it  would  not  be  better  to 
invite  me  to  come  to  their  village  at  once,  without  proceeding 
to  Prome.  So  I  consented,  and  they  went  off.  Li  the  after- 
noon of  that  day,  I  had  a  crowded  zayat  on  shore.  One  man 
appeared  to  be  impressed.  But  there  were  many  cavillers, 
and  some  discouraging  signs.  At  night  the  women  came 
back,  and  with  many  tears  said,  that  the  chief  men  of  the  vil- 
lage were  afraid  to  entertain  a  foreigner,  lest,  in  case  of  war 
with  the  English,  they  should  be  involved.  The  next  morning 
the  wife  of  the  governor  in  these  parts,  having  heard  of  me, 
sent  to  the  boat  for  a  tract  j  several  other  people  also  came  on 


492  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

the  same  errand,  until  we  left  the  place,  which  w^e  did  about 
noon  ;  and  at  night,  the  w^ind  being  contrary,  we  reached  this 
place,  about  one  hundred  and  seventy  miles  from  Rangoon. 
I  landed,  and  found  Mr.  M.,  the  only  European  residing  here; 
and  he  invited  me  to  stay  with  him  a  few  days,  until  I  could 
get  settled.  The  next  morning  I  left  the  boat,  and  repaired  to 
his  house.  He  immediately  took  me  to  the  governess  of  the 
town,  whose  husband  has  lately  been  summoned  to  Ava.  In 
her  presence  I  found  the  deputy  governor  and  a  number  of 
people.  I  read  and  preached  to  them.  They  applauded  my 
style  of  reading,  &c.,  but  seemed  to  be  more  taken  with  the 
sound  than  the  sense.  The  governess,  however,  was  evidently 
impressed.  She  begged  for  the  tract,  that  she  might  get  it 
copied.  I  presented  it  to  her,  and  she  received  it  thankfully. 
Thence  I  proceeded  to  various  places  in  search  of  a  house  to 
be  let,  but  was  unsuccessful.  The  people  are  afraid  to  have 
any  connection  with  a  foreigner.  Ever  since  Major  Burney 
passed  up  to  Ava,  the  country  has  been  full  of  all  manner  of 
rumors  and  fears.  The  very  face  of  a  white  man  spreads 
general  alarm.  Mr.  M.  has  been  accused  of  being  a  spy, 
though  nothing  can  be  more  false ;  and  it  was  even  proposed 
to  put  him  in  confinement.  I  find  that  the  same  suspicion  is 
generally  felt  towards  me.  I  foresee  that  people  will  be  afraid 
to  come  near  me,  and  that  my  usefulness  here  will,  on  that  ac- 
count, be  greatly  impeded.  Add  to  this  that  the  town  has 
been  so  dreadfully  oppressed  to  pay  their  contingent  of  the 
government  debt,  that  poverty,  distress,  and  terror,  are  the 
order  of  the  day.  However,  the  walls  of  Jerusalem  have 
sometimes  been  built  in  troublous  times. 

Failing  in  my  attempt  to  hire  a  house,  I  went  in  search  of 
a  vacant  spot  to  build  on.  Fell  in  with  two  of  the  first  offi- 
cers of  the  place,  and  had  a  little  friendly  conversation. 
Found,  in  the  heart  of  the  town,  an  old,  dismantled  zayat,  in 
front  of  a  pagoda,  wath  a  little  vacant  ground  around  it. 
Went  to  the  deputy  governor,  presented  him  w^ith  a  tract,  and 
warned  him  not  to  be  intoxicated  with  worldly  splendor,  for 
life  was  short,  &c.     He  read  part  of  the  tract,'  and  said  that 


SOJOURN    IN    PROME.  493 

my  words  were  veiy  proper.  One  of  my  people  respectfully 
requested  leave  to  repair  the  old  zayat  for  the  residence  of 
the  kalali  pong-gyee,  until  he  should  proceed  to  Ava.  The 
governor  was  disj)Osed  to  be  kind ;  but  fearing,  I  suppose,  for 
the  reasons  above  mentioned,  to  do  any  thing  on  his  own  re- 
sponsibility, said  that  he  would  bring  forward  my  business  in 
the  court  house,  the  next  day,  before  the  assembled  authorities 
of  the  place. 

Notwithstanding  this  promise,  however,  nothing  was  done 
the  next  day  ;  and  it  being  Lord's  day,  I  staid  at  home,  had 
usual  worship  with  my  people,  and  tried  to  study  patience  and 
Thomas  a  Kempis  in  the  shattered  house  that  Mr.  M.  occu- 
pies, with  the  rain  beating  in  on  every  side. 

On  Monday,  that  is,  yesterday,  I  went  myself  to  the  court 
house,  and  found  the  magistrates  assembled,  each  sitting  at  his 
post,  in  Burman  style,  and  the  deputy  governor  in  the  centre. 
He  pretended  not  to  see  or  know  me.  I  waited  some  time, 
and  in  an  interval  of  business  addressed  some  of  the  inferior 
magistrates.  An  inquiry  rose  who  I  was,  and  what  I  wanted. 
The  deputy  governor  began  slyly  to  assist  me ;  and  after  con- 
siderable conversation,  it  was  unanimously  agreed  that  I  should 
be  permitted  to  take  possession  of  the  old  zayat,  and  repair  it  for 
my  present  residence.  From  the  court  house  I  went  to  survey 
my  new  estate.  I  find  it  to  be  forty-five  feet  long,  and  twenty 
wide.  Xhe  posts  and  the  main  parts  of  the  roof  and  floor,  being 
of  teak,  are  still  extant ;  but  it  is  all  overgrown  with  wild  creep- 
ers, and  makes,  on  the  whole,  a  j^retty  venerable  ruin.  It 
stands  on  holy  ground,  occupying  one  corner  of  the  enclosure 
of  a  pagoda ;  which  corner  I  am  to  surround  with  a  fence,  and 
thus  have  an  enclosure  about  four  times  larger  than  the  ruin 
itself.  This  morning  I  am  sending  out  people  to  beg  materials 
and  engage  workmen  to  make  the  place  habitable  as  soon  as 
possible. 

I  am  very  glad  to  hear  that  brother  Bennett  is  leading  the 

worship  of  the  European  assembly,  when  brother  Boardman's 

ill  health  prevents  him.     Go  on  in  this  good  work.     You  have 

an   evident  call  from  God  and   man.     As    to  the  ideas  you 

VOL.  I.  42 


494  MEMOlll    OF    DK.    JUDSOX. 

entertain  of  your  own  unfitness,  they  are  quite  correct ;  but  if 
you  thought  you  were  fit,  it  would  clearly  prove  that  you 
were  more  unfit  than  you  are. 

How  much  I  love  you  all,  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  and  dis- 
ciples, I  cannot  tell.  And  did  I  not  expect  soon  to  meet  you 
in  heaven,  and  be  happy  with  you  forever,  I  should  be  quite 
unwilling  to  live  an  exile,  fixr  from  you,  in  this  dark  land. 

A.  JUDSON. 

To  the  same. 

PiiOME,  June  26,  1830. 

Dear  Brethren  and  Sisters  :  To-day  I  have  taken  pos- 
session of  the  old  zayat  allowed  me  by  government,  as  stated 
in  ray  last.  Part  of  it  we  have  enclosed  in  rooms,  and  the 
other  part  we  have  left  open  for  the  reception  of  company. 
Several  people  accosted  us,  as  they  passed.  "  So  you  have 
moved,  have  you?  We  shall  come  and  see  you  before  long." 
There  are  at  present  no  hopeful  inquirers  ;  but  some  visitors 
from  Men-dai  and  Men-yoo-ah  approximate  towards  that 
character. 

June  27,  Lord's  day.  After  usual  worship  with  the  disci- 
ples, I  went  to  spend  the  day,  it  being  Burman  day  of  worship, 
at  the  great  Shway  San-dau  pagoda,  which  is  the  same  to 
Prome  that  Shway  Da-gong  is  to  Eangoon,  and  Kyaik  Than- 
lan  to  Maulmain.  The  zayat  which  we  occupied  l»ad  many 
visitors,  and  some  heard  with  attention. 

July  2.  A  great  change  has  taken  place  in  the  minds  of 
government  people  towards  me.  Satan  has  industriously  cir- 
culated a  report  that  I  am  a  spy  in  pay  of  the  British.  Last 
night  the  deputy  governor  sent  to  inquire  my  name  and 
title.  This  morning  I  waited  on  him,  and  on  the  lady  govern- 
ess, but  met  with  a  very  cold  reception  at  both  places.  The 
deputy  governor  is  probably  reporting  me  to  Ava,  and  what 
the  consequences  will  be,  I  know  not.  Several  visitors,  who 
began  to  listen  with  some  favorable  disposition,  have  suddenly 
fallen  off.     To-day  I  have  had  no  company  at  all. 

July  3.     Pastor  Lig  returned  from  a  visit  to  Men-yoo-ah. 


sojouPiX  IN  riiOME.  405 

He  says  that  the  same  suspicion  is  spreading  all  over  the 
country.  Even  the  women  mentioned  in  my  last  were  afraid 
to  have  any  communication  with  him.  By  forcing  his  way,  he 
managed  to  sleep  tAvo  nights  at  the  house  of  the  Toung-dAven 
teacher,  and  had  some  conversation  with  him  and  his  people 
on  the  subject  of  religion.  But  the  teacher,  though  not  a  reg- 
ular Boodhist,  feels  his  consequence,  as  the  head  of  a  sect,  and 
is  perhaps  as  far  from  candid  consideration  as  the  most  bigoted 
priest.  Pastor  Ing  says  that  the  country  is  full  of  villages, 
and  there  is  some  disposition  to  listen  to  religion,  but  that  in 
the  present  state  of  the  public  mind,  if  I  should  make  the  tour 
of  those  parts,  as  I  had  some  intention  of  doing,  there  is  not  a 
house  where  the  owner  Avould  dare  to  ask  me  to  sit  down  at  the 
entrance  of  the  door. 

Feel  extremely  dejected  this  evening.  Never  so  heartily 
willing  to  enter  into  my  rest,  yet  willing  to  offer,  and  I  do, 
with  some  peculiar  feelings,  offer,  my  poor  life  to  the  Lord 
Jesus  Clu'ist,  to  do  and  to  suffer  Avhatever  he  shall  appoint, 
during  my  few  remaining  days.  My  followers  feel  some  cour- 
age yet;  for  they  have,  I  hope,  a  little  faith,  and  they  know,  also, 
that  whatever  storm  comes,  it  will  beat  upon  their  teacher  first. 

July  4,  Lord's  day.  Another  Burman  day  of  worship,  and 
a  great  day,  being  the  first  day  of  Lent,  a  season  which  con- 
tinues three  months.  After  usual  worship,  took  a  stroll  through 
the  place.  All  smiles  and  looks  of  welcome  are  passed  away ; 
people  view  me  with  an  evil  eye,  and  suffer  their  dogs  to  bark 
at  me  unchecked.  Near  Shway  San-dau,  the  zayats  were 
crowded  with  devout-faced  worshippers.  I  found  a  vacant 
place  under  a  shed  built  over  a  large  brick  idol,  and,  sitting 
down  on  the  ground,  I  held  converse  with  small  parties,  who 
came  around  in  succession.  Some  company,  also,  morning 
and  evening,  at  home.  I  cannot  but  hope  that  two  persons 
have  this  day  obtained  some  discovery  of  the  way  of  salvation 
through  a  crucified  Saviour.  But  it  is  really  affecting  to  see 
a  poor  native  when  he  first  feels  the  pinch  of  truth.  On  one 
side  he  sees  hell ;  on  the  other  side,  ridicule,  reproach,  confis- 
cation of  goods,  imprisonment,  and  death. 


496  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

July  7.  Moung  A,  one  of  the  persons  last  mentioned,  comes 
every  day.  lie  seems  to  be  quite  taken  with  the  Christian 
religion,  but  says  he  cannot  think  of  embracing  it  until  the 
learned  and  the  great  lead  the  way. 

July  8.  Many  visitors  through  the  day,  in  consequence  of 
a  festival  held  in  the  vicinity.  Moung  A  begins  to  speak 
decidedly  for  Christ. 

July  9.  Having  agreed  that  two  or  three  of  our  number 
shall  go  out  every  day,  in  different  directions,  and  preach  the 
gospel,  whether  the  people  will  hear  or  forbear,  my  lot  fell  in 
a  public  zayat,  about  a  mile  from  home,  near  Sliway  San-dau, 
where  I  had  an  uninterrupted  succession  of  hearers  from 
morning  till  night.  Pastor  Ing  and  Moung  Dway  were  suc- 
cessfully engaged  in  another  quarter,  and  Moung  En  had  some 
company  at  home.  I  presume  that  a  hundred  and  fifty  people 
have  this  day  heard  the  gospel  intelligibly,  who  never  heard 
it  before. 

July  10.  The  same  as  yesterday,  except  that,  being  ill,  I 
left  the  zayat  about  noon.  Moung  A  was  with  me  in  the 
afternoon.  His  case  is  becoming  extremely  interesting.  He 
is  a  bright  young  man,  with  a  small  family,  formerly  belonged 
to  Coesar's  household,  and  bore  a  considerable  title,  which  was 
forfeited  through  false  accusation.  He  began  last  night  to 
pray  to  the  eternal  God. 

July  11,  Lord's  day.  Several  came  in  during  worship,  and 
behaved  decently,  though  they  would  not  put  themselves  into 
a  devotional  jDosture,  or  join  in  the  responses.  One  man,  in 
particular,  professed  to  be  excessively  delighted  with  the  new 
and  wonderful  things  which  he  heard.  Moung  A  present  at 
evening  worship,  but  he  remains  in  a  very  critical  state.  No 
wine  to  be  procured  in  this  place,  on  which  account  we  are 
unable  to  unite  with  the  other  churches,  this  day,  in  partaking 
of  the  Lord's  supper. 

July  12.  A  Burman  day  of  worship.  In  the  morning, 
received  private  information  that  the  deputy  governor,  as  I 
conjectured,  did  actually  report  me  to  Ava.  If  any  order  be 
given  immediately,  whether  favorable  or  unfavorable,  it  may 


SOJOURN    IN    I'ROJIE.  407 

be  expected  in  the  course  of  a  fortnight.  Felt  rather  deject- 
ed, but  endeavored  to  put  my  trust  in  God,  and  resolve  to 
work  while  the  day  lasts.  The  zayats  being  all  full  of  wor- 
shippers, I  took  my  seat  on  a  brick  under  the  shed  over  the 
great  idol,  and,  from  morning  till  night,  crowd  succeeded  crowd. 
Some  became  outrageously  angry,  and  some  listened  with 
delight.  "  Some  said.  He  is  a  good  man ;  but  others  said. 
Nay,  he  deceivetli  the  people."  About  noon,  heard  Moung 
Dway's  voice  on  the  other  side  of  the  idol.  Pastor  Ing  was 
busy  in  another  quarter.  At  home,  Moung  En  received  a 
visit  from  Myat-pyoo,  one  of  the  two  persons  mentioned  on 
the  4th.  He  is  sixty-nine  years  old,  a  little  deaf,  very  timid 
and  retiring.  My  expectations  of  him  are  not  disappointed. 
He  says  that  he  thinks  this  is  the  true  religion,  nnd  the  only 
one  that  provides  a  way  of  escape  from  hell,  of  which  he  is 
exceedingly  afraid,  in  consequence  of  his  many,  many  sins. 

July  13.  Took  up  my  position  at  my  favorite  zayat.  It 
stands  at  the  crossing  of  two  great  roads,  the  one  leading  from 
the  river  side  to  Shway  San-dau,  and  the  other  from  the  town 
to  the  place  of  burying,  or  rather  burning,  the  dead.  Several 
funeral  processions  pass  every  day,  and  many  of  the  follow- 
ers, in  going  or  returning,  stop  at  my  zayat  to  rest.  To-day 
there  was  a  funeral  of  distinction,  and  all  the  ollicers  of  gov- 
ernment, with  their  respective  suites,  attended.  In  conse- 
quence of  this,  the  crowd  around  me  Avas  greater  than  ever 
before.  But  they  were  not  hearers  of  the  right  stamp.  Most 
of  them,  being  adherents  of  government,  were  rude,  insolent, 
and  wicked  in  the  extreme.  A  few  considerate  persons 
remained  till  night,  particularly  one  man,  on  whose  account  I 
also  remained,  though  dreadfully  exhausted.  He  has  been 
with  me  two  days,  and  I  have  a  little  hope  that  he  begins  to 
feel  the  force  of  truth. 

July  14.  Another  day  of  hard  conflict.  Tlic  enemy  begins 
to  be  alarmed,  and  his  forces  come  on  fresh  and  lierce,  while 
we,  few  in  number,  have  to  sustain  the  combat  without  any 
human  reenforcement.  The  sjjirit  is  willing,  but  the  flesh  is 
weak.  At  night,  felt  an  entire  prostration  of  strength,  so 
42* 


498  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

much  so  that  I  was  unable  to  go  through  with  the  evening 
service  as  usuaL 

July  15.  StaiU  at  home,  and  had  some  company,  who  lis- 
tened well.  Oo  Myat-pyoo  appears  to  have  taken  the  religion 
of  Christ  into  his  heart.  He  and  Moung  A  bid  fair  to  be  the 
first  fruits  of  the  mission  here. 

Moung  Dway  is  about  returning  to  Rangoon  and  Maulmain. 
He  will  take  Moung  Like  with  him,  so  that  I  shall  have  no 
other  assistants  besides  Pastor  Ing  and  Moung  En,  Moung 
Dan  being  useful  in  the  kitchen  department  only.  I  hope, 
however,  that  Moung  Dway's  business  will  be  facilitated  by 
all  parties,  so  that  he  will  be  able  to  rejoin  me  before  long. 

July  16.  Moung  San-lone  has  just  arrived  from  Rangoon, 
and  proposes  staying  with  me  a  while.  I  close  this  to  forward 
by  Moung  Dway. 

A.  JUDSON. 

To  tlie  same. 

Prome,  August  23,  1830. 
Dear  Brethren  and  Sisters  :  Tired  of  minuting  down 
the  events  of  each  day,  I  have  written  nothing  since  my  last 
date,  July  1 6.  My  time  has  been  spent  in  the  same  way 
as  stated  in  the  first  part  of  that  month.  At  one  period  the 
whole  town  seemed  to  be  roused  to  listen  to  the  news  of  an 
eternal  God,  the  mission  of  his  Son,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  the  way  of  salvation  through  his  atonement.  A  consider- 
able proportion  of  the  hearers  became  favorably  disposed.  At 
length  the  enemy  assumed  a  threatening  aspect;  the  poor 
people  became  frightened ;  many  sent  back  the  tracts  they  had 
received  ;  and  there  was  a  general  falling  off  at  the  zayats.  I 
was  summoned  to  undergo  a  long  examination  at  the  court 
house,  not,  however,  on  the  subject  of  religion,  but  concerning 
all  my  past  life  since  I  have  been  in  Burmah.  ^  The  result 
was  forwarded  to  Ava.  The  magistrates  still  preserve  a 
perfect  neutrality,  in  consequence  of  the  absence  of  the  gov- 
ernor. At  Ava  I  have  been  regarded  as  a  suspicious  char- 
acter ever  since  I  deserted  them  at  the  close  of  the  war,  and 


SOJOURN    IN    PROME.  499 

went  over  to  the  British.  I  know  not  what  impressions  the 
governor  of  this  place  will  there  receive,  or  how  he  will  feel 
towards  me  wlien  he  is  informed  of  the  noise  I  have  made  in 
Prome  during  his  absence. 

On  hearing  of  the  declining  health  of  brother  Boardman,  and 
brother  Wade's  intention  of  leaving  Rangoon  for  Maulmain,  I 
had  some  thoughts  of  returning  immediately  to  Eangoon.  But 
on  further  consideration  and  prayer,  I  feel  that  I  must  work 
while  tlie  day  lasts  at  Prome.  I  have  some  company  at  the 
zayats  every  day,  and  crowds  on  days  of  worship.  Most  of 
the  hearers  are  opposers  ;  but  I  observe  in  distant  corners 
those  who  listen  with  eagerness.  There  are  five  persons  who 
have,  I  trust,  obtained  a  little  grace  ;  but  in  the  present  dark 
time,  they  give  no  satisfactory  evidence. 

August  30.  Since  my  last  letters  from  Rangoon,  I  think 
continually  of  brother  Boardman,  and  the  great  loss  we  are 
threatened  with.  May  the  Lord  direct  and  support  him  and 
our  dear  sister. 

September  8.  The  rise  of  the  river  has,  for  several  days, 
prevented  my  going  to  the  zayats ;  they  being  situated  in  a 
distant  part  of  the  town.  I  have  employed  myself  in  revising 
brother  Wade's  Investigator,  and  send  herewith  a  clean  copy. 
In  return,  I  hope  to  be  favored  with  a  few  hundred  printed 
copies.  It  is  a  piece  of  great  merit,  and  ought  to  be  brought 
to  bear  on  the  enemy  without  delay.  An  edition  of  three 
thousand  will  not  be  too  large.  I  have  already  sent  down 
some  corrections  for  brother  Boardman's  Ship  of  Grace. 
That  piece  is  well  written,  but  not  so  well  adapted  for  present 
service.  It  is,  however,  acceptable  among  the  converts  ;  and 
I  should  be  glad  to  see  it  in  print,  especially  if  the  author 
should  be  taken  away,  that,  being  dead,  he  may  yet  speak. 
His  Scripture  extracts,  I  have  no  doubt,  will  be  as  judicious  as 
can  be  made ;  and  the  work  ought  to  be  put  into  immediate 
circulation. 

We  have  had  one  new  inquirer  of  a  most  promising  appeai'- 
ance,  a  secretary  of  the  deputy  governor.  He  had  repeatedly 
visited  me  at  the  zayats  :  at  length  he  came  to  the  house,  and 


500  MEMOIR    OF   DR.    JUDSON. 

finally  began  to  attend  our  evening  worship.  But  alas  !  as  has 
been  the  case  with  all  our  good  inquirers,  he  met,  I  suppose, 
with  some  violent  threatening,  and  a  few  days  ago,  suddenly 
and  entirely  disappeared.  Old  Go  Myat-pyoo,  mentioned  July 
15,  sends  me  word,  that  he  reads  our  writings  every  day,  and 
thinks  of  us  constantly,  but  begs  we  will  never  mention  to 
any  person  that  he  formerly  visited  us.  As  for  Moung  A,  he 
has  privately  left  the  place  altogether,  for  what  reason  we 
cannot  ascertain.  You  can  have  no  idea  of  the  fear  of  gov- 
ernment which  pervades  all  classes.  I  never  saw  so  much  of 
it  before. 

My  present  expectation   is,  that  the  way  will  be  clear  for 
me  to  leave  this  for  Rangoon  the  latter  part  of  this  month. 

A. JUDSON. 

Extract  from  Major  11.  Burneys  Journal. 

AvA,  September  1,  1830. 
The  ministers  requested  my  advice  as  to  the  measures 
which  they  ought  to  pursue  with  respect  to  Dr.  Judson,  who, 
they  said,  is  come  up  to  Prome,  and  is  there  distributing  tracts 
among  the  inhabitants,  and  abusing  the  Burmese  religion, 
much  to  the  annoyance  of  the  king.  I  told  them  that  Dr. 
Judson  is  now  exclusively  devoted  to  missionary  pursuits; 
that  I  possess  no  power  or  authority  over  him,  but  that  I  know 
him  to  be  a  very  pious  and  good  man,  and  one  not  likely  to 
injure  the  Burmese  king  or  government  in  any  manner.  The 
ministers  replied  that  the  king  is  much  vexed  with  Dr.  Judson 
for  the  zeal  with  which  he  is  distributing  among  the  people 
writings  in  which  the  Burmese  faith  is  held  forth  to  contempt, 
and  that  his  majesty  is  anxious  to  remove  him  from  Prome. 
I  said  that  the  Burmese  king  and  government  have  always 
enjoyed  a  liigh  reputation  among  civilized  nations  for  the  tol- 
eration wliich  they  have  shown  to  all  religious  faiths  ;  that 
there  are  thousands,  in  Europe  and  America,  who  would  be 
much  hurt  and  disappointed  to  hear  of  any  change  in  the  lib- 
eral policy  luihorto  observed  by  tlie  King  of  Ava,  and  that  I 
Loped  the  ministei-s  would  not  think  of  molesting  or  injuring 


DEPARTURE  FROM  TROME.  501 

Dr.  Judson,  as  such  a  proceeding  would  offend  and  displease 
good  men  of  all  nations.  They  replied  that  it  was  for  this 
reason,  to  avoid  hurting  Dr.  Judson,  that  they  had  consulted 
me  ;  and  they  proposed  that  I  should  write  and  advise  Dr.  Jud- 
son of  the  king's  sentiments  towards  him.  I  reiterated  my 
assurances  that  Dr.  Judson  is  in  no  way  connected  with  me  or 
my  government,  and  that  I  can  issue  no  orders  to  him  ;  and  I 
begged  the  ministers  to  leave  him  alone,  which,  however,  they 
said  they  could  not,  as  his  majesty  had  expressed  himself  much 
displeased  with  his  conduct.  I  consented  at  last  to  write  to 
Dr.  Judson,  but  I  told  the  ministers  to  recollect  that  I  had  no 
right  to  interfere  with  him,  who  would,  notwithstanding  any 
letter  he  might  receive  from  me,  act  in  whatever  manner  his 
own  judgment  and  conscience  might  dictate.  The  ministers 
begged  of  me  only  to  recommend  Dr.  Judson  to  return  to 
Rangoon,  and  confine  his  missionary  labors  within  that  city. 

Letter  to  the  Missionaries  at   liangoon  and  Maulmain^  and  the  Corre- 
sponding Secretary  in  Boston,    U.   S. 

Below  Prome,  September  18, 1830. 

Afloat  on  my  own  little  boat,  manned  by  none  other  than 
my  three  disciples,  I  take  leave  of  Prome  and  her  towering 
god  Shway  Lan-dau,  at  whose  base  I  have  been  laboring,  with 
not  the  kindest  intentions,  for  the  last  three  months  and  a 
half.  Too  firmly  founded  art  thou,  old  pile,  to  be  overthrown 
just  at  present ;  but  the  children  of  those  who  now  plaster 
thee  with  gold  will  yet  pull  thee  down,  nor  leave  one  brick 
upon  another. 

The  government  writer,  Moung  Ky wet-nee,  who  recom- 
menced visiting  us  a  few  days  ago,  has  been  hanging  about  us 
for  two  hours,  lamenting  our  departure ;  and  he  is  now  sitting 
alone  at  the  water's  edge,  looking  after  our  boat  as  it  floats 
down  the  stream.  "  Mark  me  as  your  disciple ;  I  pray  to 
God  every  day  ;  do  you  also  pray  for  me  ;  as  soon  as  I  can 
get  free  from  my  present  engagements,  I  intend  to  come  down 
to  Rangoon,"  are  some  of  his  last  expressions. 

The  sun  is  just  setting.  We  could  not  get  our  boat  ready 
earlier  in  the  day  ;  and,  as  it  is  Saturday  evening,  we  intend 


502  MEMOIR    OF   DR.    JUDSON. 

to  proceed  as  far  as  Men-dai,  in  order  to  spend  the  Lord's 
day  there.  There  is  no  period  of  my  missionary  life  that  I 
review  with  more  satisfaction,  or,  rather,  Avith  less  dissatisfac- 
tion, than  my  sojourn  in  Prome.  This  city  was  founded  sev- 
eral hundred  years  before  the  Christian  era.  Through  how 
many  ages  have  the  successive  generations  of  its  dark  inhabit- 
ants lived  and  died,  without  the  slightest  knowledge  of  the 
Great  Eternal,  and  the  only  way  of  salvation  which  he  has 
2)rovided  !  At  length,  in  the  year  1830,  it  was  ordered  that  a 
missionary  of  the  cross  should  sit  down  in  the  heart  of  the 
city,  and  from  day  to  day,  for  above  three  months,  should  pour 
forth  divine  truth  in  language  which,  if  not  eloquent  and  ac- 
ceptable, was  at  least  intelligible  to  all  ranks.  What  a  won- 
derful phenomenon  must  this  have  been  to  celestial  beings, 
who  gaze  upon  the  works  and  dispensations  of  God  in  this 
lower  world !  It  was  necessary  to  the  accomplishment  of  the 
divine  purpose,  that,  after  so  many  centuries  of  darkness, 
there  should  be  such  an  exhibition  of  light  as  has  been  made, 
and  no  more.  Thousands  have  heard  of  God  who  never,  nor 
their  ancestors,  heard  before.  Frequently,  in  passing  through 
the  streets,  and  in  taking  my  seat  in  the  zayats,  I  have  felt 
such  a  solemnity  and  awe  on  my  spirits  as  almost  prevented 
me  from  opening  my  lips  to  communicate  the  momentous  mes- 
sage with  which  I  was  charged.  How  the  preacher  has 
preached,  and  how  the  hearers  have  heard,  the  day  of  judg- 
ment will  show.  0,  how  many  will  find  their  everlasting 
chains  more  tight  and  intolerable  on  account  of  the  very 
warnings  and  entreaties  they  have  received  from  my  lips  ! 
But  what  more  can  be  done  than  has  been  done  ?  Though 
warned  and  entreated,  they  have  wilfully,  obstinately,  and 
blasphemously  refused  to  listen.  But,  blessed  be  God,  there 
are  some  whose  faces  I  expect  to  see  at  the  right  hand  of  the 
great  Judge.  The  young  man  just  mentioned,  the  carpenter 
Moung  Sliway-hlah,  a  poor  man,  by  name  Moung  Oo,  in  ad- 
dition to  some  others  mentioned  in  former  letters,  give  us 
reason  to  hope  that  they  have  received  the  truth  in  good  and 
honest  hearts.  Many  also  there  are  who  have  become  so 
far  enlightened  that  I  am  sure  they  never  can  bow  the  knee 


ARRIVAL    AT    RANGOON.  503 

to  Shway  Lan-dau,  without  a  distressing  conviction  that  they  are 
in  the  wrong  way.  Far^vell  to  thee,  Prome !  AVillingly  would 
I  have  spent  my  kist  breath  in  thee  and  for  thee.  But  thy  sons 
ask  me  not  to  stay  ;  and  I  must  preacli  the  gospel  to  other  cities 
also,  for  therefore  am  I  sent.  Read  the  live  hundred  tracts 
that  I  have  left  with  thee.  Pray  to  the  God  and  Saviour  that 
I  have  told  thee  of.  And  if  hereafter  thou  call  me,  though  in 
the  lowest  whisper,  and  it  reach  me  in  the  very  extremities  of 
the  empire,  I  will  joyfully  listen,  and  come  back  to  thee. 

Mex-dai,  September  19. 
Spent  the  day  in  the  zayat  which  I  formerly  occupied. 
The  crowds  were  very  noisy,  but  some  listened  with  attention. 
Distributed  nearly  a  hundred  tracts.  Mai  Goo  came  from 
her  village  with  two  other  Avomen,  one  of  whom  appears  to 
have  grace.  But  Mali  Wen-yo  and  Mali  Ping  were  not  sea- 
sonably apprised  of  our  arrival.  Just  at  night,  dropped  down 
to  a  small  village  below  Men-dai,  that  we  might  have  a  little 
evening  worship  by  ourselves. 

Near  Raxgoox,  September  24. 

We  have  distributed  four  hundred  tracts  between  this  and 
INIen-dai,  having  touched  at  many  of  the  principal  places,  and 
spent  an  hour  or  tAvo,  or  a  night,  as  we  could  make  it  conven- 
ient. We  should  have  stopped  oftener  and  staid  longer  had 
not  our  stock  of  tracts  become  exhausted.  My  people,  also, 
began  to  be  impatient  at  the  restless  nights  we  were  obliged 
to  spend,  on  account  of  the  insufferable  annoyance  of  mosqui- 
toes on  the  banks  of  the  river  in  the  lower  country  at  this 
season  of  the  year. 

September  25.  Came  in  sight  of  my  old  acquaintance, 
Shway  Da-gong;  landed  once  more  in  Rangoon ;  found  letters 
from  Maulmain,  saying  that  brother  Boardman  is  considera- 
bly better,  for  which  I  desire  to  thank  God ;  repaired  to  the 
house  lately  occupied  by  brother  Wade.  Since  his  departure, 
I  lind  that  some  efforts  have  been  made  to  check  the  progress 
of  religious  inquiry.  At  one  time  men  were  stationed  at  a 
little  distance,  on  each  side  of  the  house,  to  threaten  those  who 


504  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

visited  the  place,  and  take  away  the  tracts  they  had  received. 
Reports  were  circulated  that  government  was  about  to  make 
a  23ublic  example  of  heretics ;  the  crowds  that  used  to  come 
for  tracts  all  disappeared,  and  Pastor  Thah-a,  who  continued 
to  occupy  the  house,  became  intimidated,  and  retreated  to  his 
own  obscure  dwelling.  Things  are,  therefore,  at  a  very  low 
ebb  ;  but  we  trust  in  God  that  the  tide  will  flow  again  in  its 
own  appointed  time. 

September  26,  Lord's  day.  Very  few  present  at  wor- 
ship. All  the  women  actually  afraid  to  come,  lest  they  should 
be  apprehended  by  government. 

October  3,  Lord's  day.  Have  seen  most  of  the  disci- 
ples and  several  inquirers  during  the  past  week.  The  case 
of  Ko  San  deserves  particular  notice.  He  is  a  respectable 
elderly  man,  residing  in  a  village  north  of  Ava.  Twelve 
years  ago  a  copy  of  the  first  edition  of  the  first  tract  found 
its  Avay  thither,  and  he  treasured  it  up  as  the  truth.  At 
subsequent  times  he  occasionally  met  with  disciples,  particular- 
ly during  the  war,  when  some  of  them  fled  beyond  Ava,  with 
the  rest  of  the  population.  The  more  he  heard  of  the  Chris- 
tian religion,  the  better  he  liked  it.  He  has  now  concluded 
to  remove  to  Rangoon.  His  wife  is  of  the  same  mind  with 
himself;  and  when  they  arrive,  will  both,  he  says,  request 
baptism. 

Moung  Kywet-nee,  one  of  Pastor  Thah-a's  disciples,  bap- 
tized up  the  country,  and  now  living  at  Kam-bai,  (not  Kam- 
bet,  as  written  formerly,)  in  this  vicinity,  a  disciple  that  I  have 
never  seen  before,  pleases  me  much.  He  appears  to  be  a 
steady,  conscientious  Christian.  Moung  Bike,  an  inquirer 
from  Anan-ben,  a  village  beyond  Kam-bai,  where  there  are 
two  disciples,  has  made  me  a  visit  for  the  first  time,  and  spent 
a  night.  He  has  twice  requested  baptism  ;  but  Pastor  Thah-a 
says  that  he  is  deficient  in  humility  and  meekness,  so  that  the 
poor  man  is  obliged  to  wait.  Li  my  view  he  appears  pretty 
well.  IMoung  Thah-doke,  another  disciple  from  a  village  be- 
yond Anan-ben,  appears  well.  But  there  are  two  of  Thah-a's 
flock  that  are  very  delinquent,  and.  he  has  but  little  hope  of 
reclaiminG:  them. 


VISIT    FRO.U    AS    ENGLISH    TKAVKLLEK.  505 

To-day  my  fixithful  Moiing  Kn  leaves  me  for  Maulniain, 
^vhe^e  his  wife  is.  Ko  Incf  and  Mounoj  Dan  still  remain  with 
me,  and  I  have  taken  Moung  Shway-too,  a  bright  young  man, 
baptized  by  Thah-a,  into  the  family,  instead  of  Moung  En. 

October  8.  Have  just  received  intelligence  that  about  tlie 
1st  of  September  the  king  issued  an  order  that  I  should  be 
removed  from  Prome,  "  being  exceedingly  annoyed  that  I  was 
there,  in  the  interior  of  the  country,  distributing  papers,  and 
abusing  the  Burmese  religion."  The  woon-gyees,  being  unwill- 
ing to  proceed  to  extremities,  made  application  to  Major  Bur- 
ney,  the  British  resident  at  Ava,  who  assured  them  that  he 
had  no  control  over  me ;  that  I  was  in  no  way  connected  with 
the  British  government,  but  employed  exclusively  in  the  duties 
of  my  profession  ;  and  he  begged  them  not  to  proceed  to  adopt 
a  measure  which  would  be  condemned  as  intolerant  by  good 
men  of  all  countries.  Tiiey  said,  however,  that  his  majesty's 
order  was  peremptory,  and  that  it  was  necessary  for  me  to 
confine  my  labors  within  the  limits  of  Rangoon.  Major  Bur- 
ney  then  consented  to  write  me  on  the  subject. 

A. JUDSON. 
A  Visit  to  Mr.  Judson  in  1830.* 

Being  unexpectedly  in  Rangoon,  in  the  autumn  of  1830, 
and  hearing  that  the  justly  celebrated  American  missionary, 
good  Mr.  Judson,  was  still  there,  with  indefatigable  zeal  pros- 
ecuting his  "  labor  of  love  "  in  the  conversion  of  tlie  Burmese, 
I  was  extremely  anxious  to  see  him ;  and,  having  informed 
ourselves  that  a  visit  from  English  travellers  would  not  be 
deemed  a  disagreeable  intrusion,  the  captain,  his  wife,  and  my- 
self, immediately  proceeded  to  Mr.  Judson's  house. 

It  was  a  Burman  habitation,  to  which  we  had  to  ascend  by 
a  ladder ;  and  we  entered  a  large,  low  room  through  a  space 
like  a  trap  door.  Tlie  beams  of  the  roof  were  uncovered,  and 
the  window  frames  were  open,  after  the  fashion  of  Burman 

*  Ey  Miss  Emma  Koberts,  author  of  Scenes  and  Characteristics 
of  Hindoostan. 

VOL.   I.  43 


506  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

houses.  The  furniture  consisted  of  a  table  in  the  centre  of 
the  room,  a  few  stools,  and  a  desk,  with  writings  and  books 
neatly  arranged  on  one  side.  We  were  soon  seated,  and  were 
most  anxious  to  hear  all  that  the  good  man  had  to  say,  who, 
in  a  resigned  tone,  spoke  of  his  departed  wife  in  a  manner 
which  plainly  showed  he  had  set  his  affections  "  where  alone 
true  joy  can  be  found."  He  dwelt  with  much  pleasure  on  the 
translation  of  the  Bible  into  the  Burman  lanf^uaore.  He  had 
completed  the  New  Testament,  and  was  then  as  far  as  the 
Psalms  in  the  Old  Testament,  which  having  finished,  he  said 
he  trusted  it  would  be  the  will  of  his  heavenly  Father  to  call 
him  to  his  everlasting  home. 

Of  the  conversions  going  on  amongst  the  Burmese  he  spoke 
with  certainty,  not  doubting  that  when  the  flame  of  Christian- 
ity did  burst  forth,  it  would  surprise  even  him  by  its  extent 
and  brilliancy.  As  we  were  thus  conversing,  the  bats,  which 
frequent  the  houses  at  Rangoon,  began  to  take  their  evening 
round,  and  whirled  closer  and  closer,  till  they  came  in  almost 
disagreeable  contact  with  our  heads ;  and  the  flap  of  the  heavy 
wings  so  near  us  interrupting  the  conversation,  we  at  length 
reluctantly  took  our  leave  and  departed.  And  this,  thought 
I,  as  I  descended  the  dark  ladder,  is  the  solitary  abode  of  Jud- 
son,  whom  after  ages  shall  designate,  most  justly,  the  great 
and  the  good.  It  is  the  abode  of  one  of  whom  the  world  is  not 
worthy  ;  of  one  who  has  been  imprisoned,  chained,  and  starved, 
and  yet  who  dares  still  to  prosecute  his  work  in  the  midst  of 
the  people  who  have  thus  treated  him.  America  may  indeed 
be  proud  of  having  given  birth  to  so  excellent  and  admirable 
a  man,  who,  amidst  the  trials,  sufferings,  and  bereavements 
with  which  it  has  pleased  Heaven  to  afflict  him,  still  stands 
with  his  lamp  brightly  burning,  waiting  his  Lord's  coming. 

If  there  be  any  man  of  whom  we  may  without  presumption 
feel  assured  that  we  will  hear  the  joyful  words,  "•  Well  done, 
thou  good  and  faithful  servant,"  it  is  certainly  the  pious  Jud- 
son,  the  great  and  persevering  founder  of  Christianity  in  a 
land  of  dark  idolatry  and  superstition. 


FAMILIAR    LETTERS    TO    FELLOW-LAliORERS.  507 

To  Mr.  Bennett. 

Haxgoox,  September  20,  1830. 
Dear  Brother  Bennett  :  I  write  a  line  to  beg  most  ear- 
nestly that  you  will  not,  after  receiving  this,  suffer  a  single 
vessel  to  leave  the  port  of  Maulmain  without  having  on  board 
five  hundred  of  the  View,  and  two  hundred  and  fifty  of  the 
Balance,  also  a  few  hundred  of  the  Catechism  of  Religion.  A 
few  copies  of  the  Three  Sciences  will  be  acceptable,  but  there 
is  no  demand  at  all  for  the  Prayers.  Don't  hesitate  about 
paying  for  the  freight.  Better  make  some  arrangement  with 
some  mercantile  person  for  the  regular  transportation  of  such 
packages  and  boxes  of  tracts,  &;c.,  as  we  may  from  time  to 
time  require.  I  began  this  letter  in  great  haste,  expecting 
every  moment  a  person  to  call  for  it.  But  I  will  con- 
tinue to  write  until  he  comes.  Yours  of  August  28  is  before 
me.  I  rejoice  in  all  your  work.  May  you  be  strengthened  to 
go  on.  I  am  particularly  glad  to  hear  of  the  average  of  hours 
per  day.  Adhere  to  such  a  rule,  and  you  will  ultimately  pass 
the  highest  Alps.  I  wrote  to  Maulmain  last  night,  but  did  not 
mention  the  want  of  tracts,  thinking  on  my  first  arrival  here 
there  was  some  stock  on  hand.  But  on  rummaging  the  boxes 
to-day,  I  find  only  about  fifty  of  the  new  tracts,  and  a  couple 
of  bundles  of  the  old,  and  about  twenty  of  the  Balance ;  so  that 
we  shall  be  completely  exhausted,  ho^vever  fast  you  run  after 
receiving  this.  But  I  must  stop.  Love  to  dear  sister  Bennett 
and  Elsina.  Yours  ever, 

A. JUDSON. 

Letter  to  Mrs.  Betmett,  toith  an  Extraetfrom  Thomas  a  Kem2ns,  Book  IV. 
Chapter  VIII.,  translated  from  the  Latin  Edition. 

Raxgoox,  October  11,  1830. 
My  dear  Sister  :  I  send  you  this  extract,  not  because  I 
think  you  have  not  given  yourself  to  God,  (that  is  a  matter 
between  him  and  your  own  soul,)  but  to  stir  up  your  pure 
mind  by  way  of  remembrance.  May  the  reading  of  it  be  more 
blessed  to  your  soul  than  the  translating  and  transcribing  of 
it  have  been  to  mine.     Remember,  I  pray  you,  that  word  of 


508  MEMOIR    OF    DR.   JUDSON. 

Brainerd,  "  Do  not  think  it  enough  to  live  at  the  rate  of  com- 
mon Christians."  True,  they  will  call  you  uncharitable  and 
censorious ;  but  what  is  the  opinion  of  poor  worms  of  the  dust, 
that  it  should  deter  us  from  our  duty  ?  Remember  that 
other  word  of  the  same  holy  man,  "  Time  is  but  a  moment, 
life  a  vapor,  and  all  its  enjoyments  but  empty  bubbles  and 
fleeting  blasts  of  wind."  The  first  duty  of  every  lover  of 
Christ  is  to  enter  constantly  within  the  veil,  offering  himself 
a  sacrifice  to  God,  to  obtain  some  sensible  communion  with  the 
great  Invisible;  and  his  second,  to  come  forth  witli  a  shining 
face,  as  Moses,  and  be  ready  to  speak  and  do  whatever  God, 
by  his  word,  providence,  and  indwelling  Spirit,  shall  appoint. 
If  we  reverse  this  order,  and  wear  out  our  lives  in  the  most 
indefatigable  services,  without  an  habitual  sense  of  holy  unc- 
tion and  divine  communion,  God  may,  indeed,  in  mercy  to 
souls,  bless  our  labors  in  some  degree,  but  our  own  souls, 
though  just  saved,  will  suffer  great,  irreparable  loss,  through 
all  eternity. 

I  sometimes  try  to  pray  for  little  Elsina,  that  the  first  dawn 
of  her  intellect  may  be  accompanied  with  the  dawn  of  heav- 
enly light.  Perhaps,  if  you  pray  a  few  words  with  her  alone 
every  day,  and  endeavor  to  direct  the  first  thoughts  of  her 
young  and  tender  mind  to  the  crucified  Saviour,  she  will  grow 
up  a  better  saint  than  her  own  mother. 

With  love  to  brother  Bennett,  I  remain 

Your  affectionate  brother, 

A.    JUDSON. 

To  the  Missionaries  at  Maulmain,  particxdarly  Mr.  Bennett. 

Rangoon,  November  13,  1830. 
Dear  Brethren  :  I  wrote  you  lately  by  Ko  Ing,  since 
which  I  have  received  yours  by  Moung  En.  We  continue  to 
distribute  about  forty  tracts  a  day,  and  should  gladly  double 
the  number  if  we  could  depend  on  a  supply  from  Maulmain. 
By  tracts  I  mean  not  the  single  sheets  or  handbills,*  contain- 
ing merely  a  scrap  of  Scripture,  which,  being  wholly  inade- 

*  Two  pages  tracts  of  Scripture  Extracts. 


FAMILIAR,    LETTERS    TO    EELLOW-LAUOIIERS.  509 

quate  to  give  any  full  idea  of  the  Christian  religion,  it  is  im- 
possible to  mock  any  poor  soul  with,  when  he  holds  out  his 
hand  for  such  spiritual  food  as  his  case  requires.  They  do 
well  enough  among  the  converts,  and  if  you  find  they  are  use- 
ful in  your  parts,  I  shall  be  happy  to  send  yoa  back  those  I 
have  on  hand,  for  there  is  no  demand  for  that  article  here  in 
the  present  state  of  the  mission.  .  .  .  But  by  tracts  I 
mean  the  View,  the  Catechism,  the  Balance,  and  the  Investi- 
gator. I  earnestly  beg  the  brethren  to  wake  up  to  the  impor- 
tance of  sending  a  regular  supply  of  all  these  articles.  How 
long  we  shall  be  allowed  a  footing  in  Rangoon  is  very  uncer- 
tain. While  a  missionary  is  here,  a  constant  stream  ought  to 
be  poured  into  the  place.  Rangoon  is  the  key  of  the  country. 
From  this  place  tracts  go  into  every  quarter.  I  could  write 
sheets  on  the  subject,  but  I  trust  that  it  is  unnecessary.  Six 
weeks  have  elapsed  since  I  wrote  for  the  Balance,  and  for  a 
few  only,  as  I  did  not  wish  to  distress  any  one,  and  though  it 
was  then  out  of  print,  it  is  not  yet  put  to  press.  And  why  ? 
Because  the  Epitome  has  been  in  the  way.  I  am  glad  the 
Epitome  is  printed  ;  but  after  all,  we  shall  not  give  away  one 
a  week  of  that  article.  The  state  of  things  does  not  immedi- 
ately require  it.  But  of  the  Balance  I  shall  give  away  one 
hundred  a  week.  There  are  daily  calls  for  it.  During  the 
last  six  weeks  I  should  have  given  away  one  thousand  of  the 
Balance,  and  they  would  now  be  circulating  all  over  the  coun- 
try. I  found  twenty  in  the  house  on  my  arrival,  and  have  been 
dealing  them  out  like  drops  of  heart's  blood.  There  are  few 
left.  I  did  expect  some  by  Moung  En  ;  but  alas  !  out  popped 
two  bundles  of  scnppets.*  The  book  of  Scripture  Extracts, 
however,  I  am  thankful  for.  I  do  not  write  this  with  any  dis- 
position to  find  fault.  I  am  sure  you  have  done  all  for  the 
best ;  and  I  feel  for  brother  Bennett  in  his  labors  at  the  press. 
I  only  blame  myself  tliat  I  have  not  boon  more  explicit,  and 
written  more  urgently  on  the  subject. 

Yours  ever,  A.  Judsox. 

*  The  two  page  tracts  mentioned  above. 
43* 


510  MEMOIR    OF    DK.    JUDSON. 

To  the  Missmiaries  at  Maulmain. 

Raxgoox,  November  16,  1830. 
Dear  Brethren  :  We  were  obliged  to  give  away  nine- 
ty-five tracts  and  Scriptures  yesterday,  besides  refusing  sev- 
eral. This  morning  I  took  twenty  in  my  hand,  as  usual,  and 
though  I  avoided  streets,  and  kept  to  the  jungle,  and  walked 
as  fast  as  possible,  yet,  notwithstanding  every  precaution,  they 
fleeced  me  of  fifteen  by  sunrise.  We  shall  not  be  able  to 
stand  it  longer  than  fifteen  or  twenty  days  at  this  rate.  They 
come  from  all  parts  of  the  country,  and  the  thing  is  sj)reading 
and  increasing  every  day.  I  hope  you  will  not  fail  me  in  the 
hour  of  need.  We  want  thousands  of  the  Catechism,  the 
View,  the  Balance,  and  the  Investigator.  Next  to  these  we 
shall  want  a  thousand  or  two  of  the  Gospel  of  Luke,  that  is, 
after  the  Scripture  Extracts  are  done,  which  will  be  shortly,  if 
you  will  only  send  them  along.  I  am  more  and  more  con- 
vinced that  Burmah  is  to  be  evangelized  by  tracts  and  por- 
tions of  Scripture.  They  are  a  reading  people  beyond  any 
other  in  India.  The  press  is  the  grand  engine  for  Burmah. 
Every  pull  of  brother  Bennett  at  the  press  sends  another  ray 
of  light  through  the  darkness  of  the  empire.  I  write  in  a 
hurry,  for  I  am  in  the  middle  of  the  sixty-fifth  Psalm ;  and 
though  I  keep  snug  in  the  garret,  I  have  had  within  an  hour 
one  man  from  Mud-dee-yah,  who  has  come  for  tracts,  having 
heard  the  gospel  from  one  of  the  disciples  at  Prome,  a  Avriter 
from  Kyouk-mau,  brought  hither  by  your  inquirer  Moung 
Louk,  a  disciple  from  Au-au-lem,  and  Moung  Hming,  from 
Pan-ta-nau,  who  requests  baptism,  and  brings  also  a  message 
and  request  for  tracts  from  Nah-kau-dau,  who  says  he  heard 
about  Jesus  Christ  from  a  foreigner*  at  Prome.  And,  as  I 
am  alive,  here  comes  at  this  moment  a  priest  and  his  followers. 
So  farewell. 

Yours, 

A.   JuDSON. 
*  **  Jiidson  himself,"  says  Mr.  Bennett,  in  a  note. 


TRANSLATION    OF    THE    PSALMS.  511 

To  the  Corresponding  Secretary. 

Raxgoox,  November  21,  1830. 

Dear  Sir  :  Since  my  return  to  this  place,  I  have  chiefly 
confined  myself  to  the  garret  of  the  house  we  occupy,  in  order 
to  get  a  little  time  to  go  on  with  the  translation  of  the  Psalms, 
which  was  begun  three  years  ago,  but  has  been  hitherto  post- 
poned for  more  important  missionary  work,  which  was  ever 
pressing  upon  us.  Some  of  the  disciples  occupy  the  front  jinrt 
of  the  house  below,  and  receive  company  and  distribute  tracts 
and  portions  of  Scripture.  The  more  hopeful  visitors  are 
shown  the  way  up  stairs.  But  notwithstanding  this  arrange- 
ment, I  am  interrupted  above  half  my  time.  People  find  their 
way  to  me  from  all  parts  of  the  country,  and  some,  I  trust,  j"e- 
turn  with  that  light  in  their  heads,  and  that  love  in  their  hearts, 
and  that  truth  in  their  hands,  which  will  operate  as  a  little 
leaven,  until  the  whole  mass  is  leavened. 

Two  have  been  lately  added  to  the  church  in  Rangoon  — 
one  of  them  the  husband  of  a  female  disciple,  whom  he  former- 
ly persecuted  for  her  religion,  but  whose  example  he  has 
now  followed ;  the  other  an  old  woman  of  seventy-four,  who 
has  met  with  violent  opposition  from  a  host  of  children  and 
grandchildren,  who  for  a  time  confined  her,  lest  she  should  be 
baptized ;  and  at  last  she  was  baptized  by  stealth.  On  her  re- 
turn from  the  w^ater,  in  wet  clothes,  she  suddenly  met  three  of 
her  sons,  grown  men,  w^ho,  it  seems,  were  suspecting  some  mis- 
chief. At  first  she  thought  of  avoiding  them  ;  but  feeling  very 
happy  that  she  was  now  a  full  disciple,  life  and  death,  praise  and 
abuse,  became,  at  the  moment,  indifferent  to  her ;  she  met  them 
courageously,  and  to  their  rude  questions,  "  What  have  you 
been  about,  mother  ?  "  she  mildly  and  promptly  replied,  "  I  have 
been  baptized  into  the  religion  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  to  the 
entire  renunciation  of  the  religion  of  our  ancestors."  The 
young  men  appeared  to  be  astonished,  and,  contrary  to  her 
fears,  refrained  from  all  abusive  treatment,  and  suffered  her  to 
proceed  home  quietly,  as  if  nothing  had  happened.  There 
are  a  fcAv  others,  who  seem  to  be  near  the  kingdom  of  heaven  ; 
but  weakness  of  faith  and  the  fear  of  men  keep  them  back. 


512  MEMOIK    OF    DIJ.    JUDSOX. 

Ko  Ing  left  me,  a  few  days  ago,  on  an  excnrsion  to  Tavoy 
and  Mergui.  I  hope  that  he  will  accomi^any  brother  Board- 
man  in  his  proposed  return  to  the  former  place,  and  assist  him 
in  baptizing  several  Karens,  who  are  waiting  there  to  profess 
the  Christian  religion.  Moung  En  has  returned  from  Maul- 
main,  and  taken  Ko  Ing's  place  ;  and  of  all  the  disciples  I  have 
yet  employed,  he  seems  to  be  the  best  qualified  to  receive  pro- 
miscuous company.  He  was,  when  I  first  knew  him,  extremely 
irritable.  He  was  frequently  betrayed  into  a  passion,  at  the 
Goung-zay-gyoon  zayat.  But  now  he  bears  with  impertur- 
bable composure,  and  a  smiling  countenance,  the  floods  of  con- 
tradiction and  abuse  which  sometimes  pour  upon  him.  Nor 
is  he  ever  so  much  in  his  element,  as  when  surrounded  by 
a  large  company,  some  contradicting  and  some  approving. 
Moung  Mo  also,  one  of  Ko  Thah-a's  converts,  has  been  on  a 
visit  to  the  villages  on  the  other  side  of  the  river.  He  was 
absent  ten  days,  and  distributed  three  hundred  tracts.  From 
his  account,  the  fields  in  that  quarter  also  are  quite  ready  for 
the  harvest. 

To  Mrs.  Bemiett. 

Rangoox,  December  10,  1830. 
Dear  Sister  Bennett  :  It  is  with  heartfelt  pleasure  that  I 
find  myself  able,  at  last,  to  beg  your  acceptance  of  a  copy  of  the 
Life  of  Lady  Guion.  And  it  is  my  most  fervent  prayer  that 
this  and'  all  other  means  of  grace  may  be  abundantly  blessed 
to  you  and  dear  brother  Bennett.  I  love  you  both  most  sin- 
cerely, and  hope  shortly  to  be  happy  ^vith  you  in  the  world  of 
light,  where  we  shall  understand  many  mysteries,  which  now 
seem  dark  to  our  dark  minds.  However,  we  have  a  glimpse 
of  that  light  which  shineth  more  and  more  to  the  perfect  day. 
.  .  .  I  thank  you  for  your  kind  letter,  and  wish  I  had 
time  and  grace  to  inakc  a  more  worthy  return.  I  hope  }'0u 
will  pray  lor  me,  for  you  have  not  such  inveterate  habits  to 
struggle  with  as  I  have  contracted  through  a  long  course  of 
religious  sinning.  O,  my  past  years  in  Rangoon  are  spectres 
to  haunt  my  soul ;  and  they  seem  to  laugh  at  me  as  they  shake 


DECLINES    RETURNING   HOME.  513 

the  chains  they  have  riveted  on  rae.  I  can  now  do  little  more 
than  beg  my  younger  brethren  and  sisters  not  to  live  as  I  have 
done,  until  the  Ethiopian  becomes  so  black  that  his  skin  can- 
not be  changed.  And  yet  I  have  sometimes  sweet  peace  in 
Jesus,  which  the  world  can  neither  give  nor  take  away.  O,  the 
freeness,  the  richness  of  divine  grace,  through  the  blood  of 
the  cross ! 

Your  affectionate,  unworthy  brother, 

A.    JUDSON. 

To  the  Con'esjyoncUng  Secretary. 

Hangoon,  December  20,  1830. 

Rev.  and  dear  Sir  :  I  am  happy  to  inform  the  board 
that  my  health,  which  was  rather  impaired  some  time  ago,  is 
now  quite  good  ;  so  that  I  should  not  feel  justified  in  accepting 
their  invitation  to  return  home. 

At  the  same  time,  the  kind  feeling  which  dictated  the  invi- 
tation, and  the  affection,  though  undeserved,  which  breathes  in 
every  hne,  have  made  an  indelible  impression  on  my  heart. 
I  must  confess  that,  in  meditating  on  the  subject,  I  have  felt  an 
almost  unconquerable  desire  to  become  personally  acquainted 
with  my  beloved  patrons  and  correspondents,  the  members  of 
the  board,  as  well  as  to  rove  once  more  over  the  hills  and 
valleys  of  my  own  native  land,  to  recognize  the  still  surviving 
companions  of  my  youth,  and  to  witness  the  wide-spread  and 
daily-increasing  glories  of  Emanuel's  kingdom,  in  that  land  of 
liberty,  blessed  of  heaven  with  temporal  and  spiritual  bless- 
ings above  all  others. 

However,  I  anticipate  a  happier  meeting,  brighter  plains, 
friends  the  same,  but  more  lovely  and  beloved  ;  and  I  expect 
soon  to  witness,  yea,  enjoy,  that  glory  in  comparison  of  which 
all  on  earth  is  but  a  shadow.  With  that  anticipation  I  con- 
tent myself,  assured  that  we  shall  not  then  regret  any  instance 
of  self-denial  or  suffering  endured  for  the  Lord  of  life  and 
glory. 

Your  affectionate  friend  and  faithful  servant, 

A.  JuDSON. 


514  MEMOIR    OF   DR.   JUDSON. 


To  Mr.  Bennett. 


PtAXGoox,  December  24,  1830. 

Dear  Brother  Bennett  :  Your  remittances  of  the  need- 
ful, under  dates  the  14th  and  19th  instant,  have  reheved  in 
some  measure  my  distresses,  which,  however,  would  not  have 
risen  to  such  a  degree,  had  not  the  people  here  told  me  that 
the  Hebe  and  La  Belle  were  the  only  small  vessels  running 
between  the  ports  ;  and  I  then  concluded  that  you  were  all 
gone  to  sleep.  I  beg  ten  thousand  pardons  for  thinking  so  ; 
and  if  you  could  only  know  how  grateful  I  feel  for  the  present 
kind  supplies,  and  for  the  kinder  promise  of  better  things  in 
future,  namely,  the  Balance,  the  Investigator,  and  the  View, 
you  would  be  convinced  that  I  am  a  very  good  creature.  I 
am  happy  to  hear  that  you  get  on  so  well  in  reading  ;  I  see 
that  you  begin  to  spout  Burman  too.  ...  I  am  glad  to 
hear  that  you  are  enlarging  the  office,  and  writing  for  a  col- 
league. Keep  moving ;  never  doubt  we  shall  bring  up  in  the 
right  place. 

I  send  you  enclosed  all  the  lampblack  I  can  procure  in 
Kangoon.  You  see  it  purports  to  be  of  the  "  very  best  "  kind. 
You  say  you  wrote  for  ink  last  September  !  When  you  want 
any  thing  from  Bengal,  you  must  learn  to  write  six  months 
before  you  need  the  article,  and  send  one  letter  per  month 
regularly  until  you  receive  it.  I  suppose  you  did  not  even 
send  a  duplicate.  However,  you  will  learn  in  time  how  we 
do  things  in  the  East.  The  Memoir  of  Payson  that  you  speak 
of  I  have.     It  is  a  most  precious  work. 

With  love  to  Mrs.  Bennett, 

Yours  affectionately, 

A.  JUDSON. 

Kangoon,  January  6,  1831. 
Dear  Brother  Bennett  :  I  have  just  received  yours  of 
the  25th  December,  and  the  two  parcels  of  tracts  by  the  Hebe. 
The  contents  of  these  parcels  I  value.  .  .  .  I  do  not 
object  to  a  box  of  books  occasionally,  but  I  should  prefer 
parcels,  as  a  general  thing,  for  the  reason  mentioned  formerly; 


FAMILIAR    LETTERS    TO    FELLOW-LABORERS.  515 

and  for  the  same  reason  I  should  much  prefer  having  them 
sent  by  native  boats ;  but  I  know  not  how  you  can  manage 
that,  unless  when  native  Christians  give  information.  If 
once,  however,  some  of  the  native  boat  owners,  who  continu- 
ally pass  between  the  two  places,  should  know  that  for  every 
parcel  they  conveyed  from  your  house  to  my  house  they 
would  receive  half  a  rupee,  I  presume  you  would  frequent- 
ly have  voluntary  application  ;  and  that  arrangement  would 
save  us  both  some  trouble,  besides  avoiding  the  inspection  and 
hue  and  cry  at  the  custom  house.  You  can't  send  too  many 
of  the  Scripture  Extracts,  (together  or  in  two  parts,)  the 
Septenary,  the  Investigator,  the  Balance,  the  View,  and  the 
Catechism.  Send  by  every  ojDportunity.  Don't  be  afraid 
that  I  shall  give  away  the  large  books  without  care,  and  as 
fast  as  you  send  them.  I  want  a  stock  on  hand  of  the  larger 
articles  ;  and,  indeed,  I  want  to  be  laying  in  a  stock  of  all  the 
articles  against  the  great  March  festival,  when,  if  things  go 
on  prosperously,  I  shall  want  ten  thousand  on  hand  at  the 
very  least. 

I  have  had  a  good  letter  from  sister  Boardman,  giving  an 
account  of  the  wonders  of  divine  grace  at  Tavoy ;  but  I  sup- 
pose you  have  heard  all. 

With  love  to  your  dear  wife, 

Yours  affectionately, 

A.    JUDSOX. 

To  the  Missionaries  at  Maulmain. 

Eaxgoox,  January  25,  1831. 
Dear  Brethren  :  I  have  attentively  read  your  letter  by 
A,  and  formed  some  acquaintance  with  tlie  man,  and  endeav- 
ored to  lay  the  subject  before  God  in  prayer ;  and  I  do  not 
find  myself  at  liberty  to  attempt  to  remove  the  cross  which  the 
Lord  Jesus  has  kindly  laid  upon  your  backs.  I  beg  you  will 
be  more  grateful  for  the  favor  than  you  appear  to  be.  Par- 
ticularly I  would  exhort  brother  Bennett  to  remember,  among 
other  things,  the  example  of  the  Abbe  de  Paris,  who,  after 
having  tried  various  modes  of  self-denial,  in  order  to  subdue  his 


516  MEMOm    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

spirit,  and  gain  the  victory  over  the  world,  at  length  selected  a 
crazy  man  to  be  the  inmate  of  his  miserable  hovel.  Now, 
though  I  am  doubtful  about  self-inflicted  austerities,  I  am  quite 
sure  that  evangelical  self-denial  eminently  consists  in  bearing 
patiently  and  gratefully  all  the  inconveniences  and  pain  which 
God  in  his  providence  brings  upon  us,  without  making  the  least 
attempt  to  remove  them,  unless  destructive  of  life  or  health, 
or,  in  one  word,  capacity  for  usefulness. 

Bangoon,  February  1,  1831. 

Deak  Brethren  :  The  great  festival  falls  this  year  on 
the  25th.  Alas  !  alas  !  what  shall  I  do  ?  I  beg  and  entreat 
that  you  will  not  give  any  tracts  in  the  vicinity  of  Maulmain 
until  after  the  1st  of  March ;  but  let  every  thing  that  can  possi- 
bly be  got  ready  be  sent  with  all  possible  expedition  to  this 
place.  I  do  beg  you  will  all  make  one  effort,  and,  if  possible, 
send  me  fifteen  or  twenty  thousand  tracts  between  this  and 
the  25th  or  28th.  The  festival  wall  last  several  days.  I  have 
lost  all  hope  of  hoarding  up  my  present  stock.  We  have  been 
obliged  to  give  away  above  one  thousand  within  the  last  three 
days.  It  is  not  here  as  at  Maulmain,  where  a  great  many  are 
destroyed.  Here,  I  am  persuaded,  after  a  great  deal  of  inquiry, 
not  one  in  a  hundred  is  destroyed.  The  people  are  eager  to 
get  tracts.  We  don't  give  to  every  one  we  meet,  as  you  do, 
but  to  those  only  who  ask  earnestly.  Don't  think  the  tracts 
you  print,  and  stitch,  and  trim,  with  a  great  deal  of  labor,  and 
send  here,  are  lost.  I  trust  that  the  most  of  them  will  come 
to  light  at  the  day  of  judgment. 

I  send  this  by  Sanlone,  who  goes  around  in  Moung  Gway's 
boat.  He,  and  perhaps  the  same  boat,  will  return  soon  ;  I  hope 
in  time  for  the  festival.  Send  every  thing  you  possibly  can, 
and  by  every  other  boat  or  vessel  after  receiving  this. 

In  great  haste,  yours, 

A.    JUDSON. 


FAMILIAR    LETTKKS    TO    FELLOW-LABORERS.  517 

To  Mr.  Bennett. 

Rangoon,  February  7,  1831. 
Dear  Brother  Bennett  :  I  wrote  lately  by  Moung  San- 
lone,  saying  that  the  great  festival  falls  on  the  2oth  instant, 
and  begging  that,  until  that  time,  no  tracts  might  be  circulated 
in  your  quarter,  but  that  every  thing,  that  could  be  got  ready, 
should  be  sent  hither.  If  you  listen  to  that  petition,  well ;  if 
not,  to  repeat  it,  with  all  the  urgency  of  a  dying  man,  would 
be  of  no  use.  We  were  giving  away  at  the  rate  of  three  or 
four  hundred  per  day,  until  I  became  alarmed,  and  reduced 
the  allowance  to  two  hundred.  AVe  are  just,  therefore,  keep- 
ing our  heads  above  water.  But  we  have  no  hopes  of  being 
ready  for  the  festival  unless  you  pour  in  fifteen  or  twenty 
thousand  more,  between  this  time  and  that.  We  have  had 
none  since  the  arrival  of  Moung  En.  He  and  A  brought 
good  supplies  ;  but  alas !  no  Views,  and  but  few  Balances  and 
Investigators.  O,  when  will  the  time  come  that  I  shall  have 
as  much  as  I  want,  and  of  the  right  hind!  I  have  labored  to 
very  great  disadvantage  ever  since  I  came  down  from  Prome, 
for  want  of  the  right  hind  of  supply.  If,  instead  of  printing 
such  a  variety,  the  brethren  had  aimed  only  at  furnishing  a 
sufficient  supply  of  the  necessaries  of  life,  how  much  better  it 
would  have  been  !  I  should  not  then  have  been  left  for  months 
without  the  Balance,  or  any  equivalent,  nor  be  left,  as  I  now 
am,  month  after  month,  without  the  View  —  the  staple  com- 
modity. ITow  distressing  it  is,  when  the  poor  people  come 
crying  for  the  elements  of  the  Christian  religion,  to  be  obliged 
to  give  them  one  of  the  small  numbers  of  the  Scripture  Ex- 
tracts, which  singly  can  give  them  no  idea  I  By  the  way,  I 
beg  you  will  send  no  more  of  No.  8  :  it  is  just  good  for  noth- 
ing, in  the  present  state  of  things.  I  do  not  write  thus  by 
way  of  finding  fault  with  my  brethren  ;  I  am  quite  sure  that 
you  have  meant  all  for  the  best.  I  have  made  too  many  mis- 
takes, and  criminal  ones  too,  all  my  life  long,  to  allow  me  to 
find  fault  with  others.  I  only  hope  that  things  will  now  be 
kept  in  such  a  train  as  to  prevent  my  being  reduced  again  to 
the  straits  I  have  been  in  for  several  months.  When  you  have 
vol.  1.  44 


518  MF.:\roiK   or  dk.  jitdson. 

made  arrangements  to  insure  a  supply  of  the  four  standard 
articles,  so  that  we  can  always  have  as  many  of  such  kind,  and 
of  all  the  kinds,  as  the  state  of  the  market  requires,  I  would 
recommend  to  the  brethren  to  issue  a  small  edition  of  three 
thousand  of  the  First  Epistle  of  John.  I  once  thought  of 
Luke ;  but  if  you  take  hold  of  that,  we  shall  be  left  to  starve 
again,  for  want  of  the  necessaries  of  life.  You  say  that 
there  are  fourteen  hundred  of  the  Scripture  Extracts  re- 
maining ;  and  these,  stitched  together  or  in  two  parts,  will 
answer  to  give  in  cases  where  something  more  than  the  four 
standards  is  required.  As  to  the  Septenary,  I  would  suggest 
that  it  is  to  be  kept  for  special  cases,  and  not  distributed  pro- 
miscuously, for  you  will  not  want  to  print  another  edition 
immediately.  It  was  not  intended  for  general  circulation, 
but  to  be  kept  on  hand  for  the  converts  and  hopeful  inquirers. 
As  to  your  plan  of  printing  the  Catechism  and  View  together, 
it  is  most  excellent.  You  cannot  furnish  too  many  of  that 
article.  As  to  the  Balance,  it  is  now  all  the  rage,  partic- 
ularly with  the  cut.  I  sujDpose  you  cannot  clap  the  cut  on  the 
covers  of  those  that  have  it  not.  It  doubles  the  value.  I 
presume  that  from  tifty  to  one  hundred  per  day  inquire  partic- 
ularly for  the  Balance,  and  we  are  obliged  to  turn  them  off 
with  something  very  inadequate  to  their  exigency.  Is  not  this 
most  awful  ?  Only  contrast  the  countenance  of  one  who  has^ 
No.  8  forced  .upon  him  instead  of  the  Balance,  and  goes  away 
feeling  very  "  gritty,"  with  the  countenance  of  another,  who 
seizes  upon  the  desired  article,  gloats  upon  the  interesting 
Bennett  cut,  and  goes  away  almost  screaming  and  jumping 
for  joy. 

I  see,  on  reperusing  your  letter,  that  you  speak  of  a  second 
edition  of  the  Septenary.  I  have  no  objection,  provided  it 
does  not  deprive  us  again  of  the  necessaries  of  life.  I  hope, 
however,  you  will  not  abandon  the  study  of  the  language. 
The  proverb  of  the  "  cat  and  her  skin  "  I  do  not  like.  I  have 
a  much  better  one  from  the  first  authority.  "  My  son,"  said 
the  head  jailer  of  the  death  prison  at  Ava  to  an  under  jailer, 
who  was  complaining  that  they  could  get  no  more  out  of  a  poor 


FAMILIAR    LETTERS    TO    FELLOW-LABORERS.  519 

fellow  whom  they  had  been  tormenting  for  several  days,  his 
wife  and  house  being  completely  stripped  —  "ray  son,"  said  the 
venerable  old  man,  "  be  sure  you  have  never  wrung  a  rag  so 
dry  but  that  another  twist  will  bring  another  drop."      .     . 
Love  to  Mi*s.  Bennett  and  family. 

Yours,  A.  JuDSON. 

To  the  Missionaries  hi  Maulmain. 

Rangoon-,  March  3,  1831. 

Dear  Brethren  and  Sisters  :  I  am  grieved  that  sister 
Wade,  after  running  down  to  Amherst,  and  deriving  a  little 
benefit  during  a  few  days'  stay,  thinks  she  must  return,  and 
probably  has  by  this  time  returned,  because  sister  Bennett  is 
quite  worn  out,  "  having  every  thing  to  do."  Now,  it  appears 
to  me  that  the  better  way  to  have  remedied  that  evil  would 
have  been  for  sister  Bennett  to  run  away  from  all  her  cares, 
and  take  the  air  at  Amherst  too. 

Mrs.  Jones,  I  hear,  is  also  ill,  and  Mrs.  Kincaid  has  not,  I 
believe,  much  health  to  spare.  Now,  as  you  have  two  months 
of  very  trying  weather  to  sustain,  I  earnestly  beg  that  you 
will  all  take  into  serious  consideration  the  propriety  of  repair- 
ing Landale's  house  forthwith,  or  some  other,  and  placing  one 
or  two  of  the  ladies,  by  turns,  to  keep  the  post,  until  the  rainy 
season  sets  in.  Mrs.  Wade,  I  humbly  conceive,  ought  to  be 
immediately  apprehended  and  sent  back  as  a  deserter.  And 
certainly  no  one  ought  to  hesitate  a  moment  at  leaving  mission 
or  domestic  cares  for  the  preservation  of  health.  When  our 
best  beloved  are  once  laid  in  the  cold  grave,  no  cries,  or  tears, 
or  remorse,  will  bring  them  back.  Many  faithful  servants 
and  handmaids  of  the  Lord  might  have  been  spared  many 
years,  had  they  only  relaxed  before  they  made  their  last 
effort. 

If  you  have  a  house  at  Amherst  during  the  hot  season,  some 
of  tlie  brethren,  too,  may  be  benefited  by  an  excursion  thither. 
Brother  Bennett  will  certainly  need  a  week's  relaxation, 
there  or  somewhere  else.  .  .  .  However,  I  only  sub- 
mit these  hasty  thoughts  for  your  consideration.     You  are  on 


520  M  KM  OIK    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

the  spot,  and  know  better  than  I  what  is  necessary  and  proper. 
May    God  preserve  your  precious    lives    many  years ;    for, 
though  the  prospect  of  death  may  not  be  grievous,  but  joyous, 
"  the  harvest  is  plenteous,  and  the  laborers  are  few." 
Yours  most  affectionately, 

A.  JUDSON. 

To  Mr.  Bennett. 

Rangoon,  March  3,  1831. 
Dear  Brother  Bennett  :  I  am  in  great  distress.  The 
View  has  been  out  several  days.  It  failed  us  in  the  midst  of 
the  festival.  Why  some  were  not  ready  to  be  sent  by  the 
Hebe,  when  the  arrival  would  have  been  so  opportune,  I  can- 
not conceive.  We  had  been  on  a  short  allowance  of  one  hun- 
dred per  day  for  several  days,  and  were  nearly  exhausted, 
when,  on  the  morning  of  the  22d,  the  splendid  consignment  of 
Moung  Sanlone  arrived.  On  that  day,  Tuesday,  we  gave 
away  three  hundred;  on  Wednesday,  eight  hundred;  on 
Thursday,  nine  hundred ;  on  Friday,  the  full  moon,  seven 
hundred ;  on  Saturday,  eleven  hundred ;  on  Sunday,  eight 
hundred  ;  on  Monday,  live  hundred.  On  Tuesday,  the  immense 
crowd  of  boats  began  to  move  off.  Moung  Sanlone  second 
had  been  petitioning  for  two  thousand,  with  which  to  proceed 
a  few  miles  up  the  river,  and  supply  the  departing  boats.  I 
could  not  listen  to  him,  when,  at  the  critical  moment,  the  Hebe 
hove  in  sight,  with  your  second  consignment,  and  I  sent  off  a 
couple  of  disciples  with  twelve  hundred,  but  no  View.  On 
the  same  day  we  gave  away,  at  the  house,  six  hundred ;  on 
Wednesday,  seven  hundred;  on  Thursday,  to-day,  five  hun- 
dred. I  have  been  trying  for  two  days  to  reduce  the  allow- 
ance, but  in  vain.  And  even  if  I  could  reduce  it  to  two  hun- 
dred, which  is  the  utmost  I  hope  for,  how  many  days  should  I 
hold  out  ?  I  have  no  Views,  only  six  hundred  of  the  Balance, 
ditto  Catechism,  about  one  hundred  and  fifty  of  the  Investiga- 
tor, a  few  Septenaries  and  Scripture  Extracts.  That  is  all ; 
for  we  do  not  consider  the  Epitome  a  suitable  thing  to  give 
away  promiscuously  to  people  who  have  never  heard  a  word 


FAMILIAR    LETTERS    TO    FELLOW-LABORERS.  521 

of  the  gospel.  Now  you  see,  do  you  not,  that  I  am  in  dis- 
tress ?  In  a  very  few  days,  unless  we  have  a  fresh  supply, 
we  shall  have  to  shut  up  the  house,  and  send  away  the  hungry 
souls  without  giving  the  crumb  of  a  Catechism.  It  is  true 
that  we  have  had  a  glorious  festival ;  but  when  a  famishing 
man  sees  pale  hunger  advancing  with  rapid  strides,  it  affords 
him  no  relief  to  reflect  that  he  feasted  sumptuously  a  week 
ago.  We  have  had  a  glorious  festival,  for  which  I  feel  under 
infinite  obligation  to  you  ;  and  as  you  have  begun  to  run  well, 
I  hope  nothing  will  hinder  you  from  prosecuting  the  race.  I 
have  the  greatest  hope  that  in  a  very  few  days  a  supply  will 
arrive.  As  to  the  Investigator,  I  begin  to  hesitate  about  giv- 
ing it  promiscuously.  It  is  an  excellent  work,  but  appears  to 
be  rather  too  straightforward  for  the  present  state  of  Burmah. 
It  gives  more  offence  than  the  Balance.  The  latter  work, 
being  cast  in  a  hypothetical  shape,  is  less  offensive.  I  think 
of  proposing  a  large  edition  of  the  Balance,  say  twenty  thou- 
sand.    .     .     . 

Yours  affectionately, 

A.  JUDSON. 

Rangoon,  March  16,  1831. 
Dear  Brother  Bennett  :  Your  last  box  of  "  pills  "  has 
quite  relieved  my  distress,  and  I  perceive  as  yet  no  symptom 
of  a  return,  the  thermometer  being  down  to  one  hundred,  in 
consequence  of  a  persevering  application  of  refrigerants. 
Pretty  work  for  a  missionary !  Next  box  of  pills  you  send, 
please  enclose  one  compounded  of  five  hundred  Catechisms. 

March  30. 
Your  splendid  consignment  came  to  hand  this  morning.  I 
feel  as  rich  as  Croesus.  But  I  am  sorry  to  say  (perhaps  you 
will  be  glad)  that,  for  some  reason  or  other,  the  tide  seems  to 
be  turning.  There  are  now  comparatively  few  applications 
for  tracts,  and  I  shall  not  need  any  other  supplies  just  at  pres- 
ent. Never,  however,  hesitate  to  send  a  few,  at  least,  when  a 
good  opportunity  offers,  especially  by  native  boats,  if  it  is  only 
44* 


522  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSOX. 

to  encourage  the  trade.  Little  Sanlone  went  oiF  with  five 
hundred  a  few  days  ago,  to  be  present  at  the  annual  festival 
of  Shway  Man-dan,  in  old  Pegu,  which  took  place  the  21st 
instant.  If  the  present  consignment  had  then  arrived,  he 
would  have  taken  two  thousand  or  more.  I  expect  him  back 
every  day.  Pastor  Thah-a  and  Shway-too  start  to-morrow 
morning  with  a  few  hundred  for  the  villages  of  Kam-bai,  &;c. 
Poor  little  Elsina  seems  to  be  ill  all  the  time.  I  expect  she 
will  be  quite  a  shadow  when  I  come  to  see  her  again,  if  that 
ever  takes  place.  However,  if  your  children  live  at  all,  it  is 
a  favor  that  not  every  one  enjoys  in  this  climate. 

Yours  affectionately, 

A.  JUDSON. 

Rangoon,  April  17,  1831. 

Dear  Brother  Bennett  :  .  .  .  The  demand  for 
tracts  at  the  house  is  much  less  than  formerly ;  but  during  my 
morning  walks  I  give  away,  every  day,  between  forty  and 
fifty,  on  earnest  solicitation.     The  priests  are  good  customers. 

Since  the  call  for  tracts  is  not  so  great  as  formerly,  I  do 
hope  that  you  will  turn  your  attention  to  the  language.  Do 
let  me  urge  you  to  do  a  little  task  every  day.  The  greatest 
mountain  will  in  time  disappear,  if  a  cart  load  is  taken  away 
every  morning.  When  you  get  the  language,  you  will  be 
interested  and  happy  in  your  work,  but  not  without. 

As  to  the  other  matter,  the  land  of  Beulah  lies  beyond  the 
valley  of  the  shadow  of  death.  Many  Christians  spend  all 
their  days  in  a  continual  bustle,  doing  good.  They  are  too 
busy  to  find  either  the  valley  or  Beulah.  "  Virtues' they  have, 
but  are  full  of  the  life  and  attractions  of  nature,  and  unac- 
quainted with  the  paths  of  mortification  and  death."  Let  us 
die  as  soon  as  possible,  and  by  whatever  process  God  shall 
appoint.  And  when  we  are  dead  to  the  world,  and  nature, 
and  self,  we  shall  begin  to  live  to  God. 

Yours  afFectionately, 

A.  JuDSON. 


INCREASING    SPIRIT    OF    INQFIHY.  523 

To  the  Corresponding  Secretary. 

Rangoon,  February  5,  1831. 

Rev.  and  dear  Sir:  Since  my  return  from  Prome,  I 
have  been  chiefly  employed  in  finishing  the  Psalms,  the  Song 
of  Solomon,  and  the  book  of  Daniel,  all  of  which  were  begun 
some  time  ago.  These,  with  an  Jipitome  of  History  and 
l^rophecy,  are  all  the  parts  of  the  Old  Testament  that  are  yet 
translated.     I  propose  next  to  enter  upon  Isaiah. 

During  the  past  year  there  have  been  baptized  twelve  at 
Maulmain,  seven  at  Rangoon,  and  twenty-eight  at  Tavoy  ;  in 
all  forty -seven,  five  of  whom  are  Europeans,  and  the  rest  na- 
tives. Three  have  been  finally  excluded,  and  a  few  are  under 
censure. 

Since  the  beginning  of  the  year,  one  young  man,  by  name 
Moung  Shway-gnong,  has  been  baptized  here,  three  or  four 
Europeans  at  Maulmain,  and  four  Karens  at  Tavoy. 

The  most  prominent  feature  in  the  mission  at  present  is  the 
surprising  spirit  of  inquiry  that  is  spreading  every  where, 
through  the  whole  length  and  breadth  of  the  land.  I  some- 
times feel  alarmed,  like  a  person  who  sees  a  mighty  engine 
beginning  to  move,  over  which  he  knows  he  has  no  control. 
Our  house  is  frequently  crowded  with  company  ;  but  I  am 
obliged  to  leave  them  to  Moung  En,  one  of  the  best  of  assist- 
ants, in  order  to  get  time  for  the  translation.  Is  this  right  ? 
Happy  is  the  missionary  who  goes  to  a  country  where  the 
Bible  is  translated  to  his  hand. 

When  we  can  obtain  a  sufficient  supply  of  tracts  from  Maul- 
main, which  is  not  half  the  time,  we  give  away  between  two 
and  three  hundred  per  day,  giving  to  none  but  those  who  ash. 
The  government  still  preserve  neutrality.  We  have  been 
once  accused  before  the  viceroy,  by  a  deputation  from  two  sub- 
ordinate departments  of  government ;  but  his  excellency  re- 
jected the  accusation  with  indignation.  He  is  not,  however, 
favorably  disposed  to  the  Christian  religion,  but  merely  wishes 
to  preserve  peace,  being  a  quiet,  good-natured  man.  And  it 
is  scarcely  known  to  government  that  there  are  any  native 
converts,  all  our  acts  of  worship  being  conducted  in  private. 


524  MEMOIR    0¥    DK.    JUDSOX. 

To  the  Corresponding  Secretary. 

Rangoon,  February  28,  1831. 

Rev.  and  dear  Sir  :  One  of  the  brightest  luminaries  of 
Burmah  is  extinguished  ;  dear  brother  Boardman  has  gone  to 
liis  eternal  rest.  I  have  heard  no  particulars,  except  that  he 
died  on  returning  from  his  last  expedition  to  the  Karen  vil- 
lages, within  one  day's  march  of  Tavoy.  He  fell  gloriously 
at  the  head  of  his  troops,  in  the  arms  of  victory  ;  thirty-eight 
wild  Karens  having  been  brought  into  the  camp  of  King  Je- 
sus since  the  beginning  of  the  year,  besides  the  thirty-two  that 
were  brought  in  during  the  two  preceding  years.  Disabled 
by  mortal  wounds,  he  was  obliged,  through  the  whole  of  his 
last  expedition,  to  be  carried  on  a  litter ;  but  his  presence  was 
a  host,  and  the  Holy  Spirit  accompanied  his  dying  whispers 
with  almighty  influence.  Such  a  death,  next  to  that  of  mar- 
tyrdom, must  be  glorious  in  the  eyes  of  Heaven.  Well  may 
we  rest  assured  that  a  triumphal  crown  awaits  him  on  the 
great  day,  and  "  Well  done,  good  and  faithful  Boardman,  en- 
ter thou  into  the  joy  of  thy  Lord."  I  have  great  confidence 
in  sister  Boardman,  that  she  will  not  desert  her  husband's 
post,  but  carry  on  the  work  which  he  has  gloriously  begun. 

In  connection  with  this  subject,  I  would  suggest  a  doubt  on 
the  advisableness  of  sending  out  missionaries  of  a  consumptive 
habit.  Three  of  my  companions,  now  dead,  were  subject  to 
some  pulmonary  affection  before  they  left  America.  Colman, 
it  is  true,  died  prematurely  of  another  disorder  ;  but  I  have 
always  thought  that,  if  he  had  escaped  the  Arracan  fever, 
he  would  not  have  survived  many  years.  Price  also  died  of 
consumption,  though  he  had  no  symptoms  of  that  disorder  on 
first  arriving.  I  have  understood,  however,  that  it  is  hereditary 
in  his  family.  This  mission,  therefore,  has  been  peculiarly 
unfortunate.  Tlie  four  male  missionaries  who  have  died  Avere 
jn-obably  all  of  them  consumptive  before  they  left  home.  Such 
persons,  instead  of  laboring  in  their  own  language,  where  they 
might  be  directly  useful,  spend  their  little  span  in  toiling  to 
acquire  a  foreign  language,  and  then  sink  into  the  grave. 
Another  consequence  is,  that  Burmah,  which  is  the  healthiest 


OBLiaATIONS    OF    CHRISTIANS    AT    IIOMK.  .525 

country  of  the  East,  next  to  Ceylon,  is  iial^le  to  be  considered 
peculiarly  unhealthy,  and  some  are  perhaps  deterred  by  this 
consideration  from  offering  themselves  to  the  service.  I 
would  further  remark,  however,  that  a  slender,  feeble  habit 
of  body  is  perhaps  no  objection.  A  person  of  such  a  habit  is, 
indeed,  more  likely  to  survive  in  an  eastern  climate  than  one 
who  is  very  stout  and  fat.  Freedom  from  hereditary  taint, 
})articnlarly  as  it  regards  pulmonary  affection,  is  the  princi[)nl 
desideratum.  The  idea  that  a  warm  climate  is  favorable  to 
persons  of  consumptive  habit,  is  correct  in  some  cases,  but  not 
where  a  rainy  season  is  to  be  encountered  every  year.  Let 
those  young  men  who  have  a  predisposition  to  consumption, 
and  this  is  the  case  with  many  of  our  theological  students, 
consider  themselves  debarred  from  the  privilege  of  preaching 
Christ  to  the  heathen  of  the  East.  But  at  the  same  time,  let 
all  the  rest  feel  themselves  under  greater  obligation  to  listen  to 
the  heart-melting,  soul-stirring  cry,  which  the  varied  pop- 
ulation of  this  great  country,  the  Shans,  the  Karens,  the  Ta- 
lings,  the  Burmese,  and  the  Arracanese  are  now  sending  forth 
from  their  towns,  and  villages,  and  hamlets,  their  mountains, 
their  valleys,  and  their  woods,  "  Come  and  save  us,  for  we 

ARE  SINKING  INTO  HELL." 

March  4.  The  great  annual  festival  of  Shway  Dagong  is 
just  past,  during  which  I  have  distributed  nearly  ten  thousand 
tracts,  giving  to  none  hut  those  tcho  ask.  Priests  and  people, 
from  the  remotest  regions,  are  alike  eager  to  get  our  writings. 
I  should  have  given  away  double  the  number,  if  I  could  have 
obtained  sufficient  supplies.  But  poor  brother  Bennett  cannot, 
single  handed,  with  bad  type,  and  not  yet  familiar  with  Bur- 
mese printing,  answer  all  the  demands  which  we  make  upon 
him,  from  different  quarters.  May  God  forgive  all  those  who, 
desert  us  in  our  extremity.  May  he  save  them  all.  But 
surely,  if  any  sin  will  lie  with  crushing  weight  on  the  trem- 
bling, shrinking  soul,  when  grim  death  draws  near,  if  any  sin 
will  clothe  the  face  of  the  final  Judge  with  an  angry  frown, 
withering  up  the  last  hope  of  the  condemned,  in  irremediable, 
everlasting  despair,  it  is  the  sin  of  turning  a  deaf  ear  to  the 


520  ME3rOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSOX. 

plaintive  cry  of  ten  millions  of  immortal  beings,  who,  by  their 
darkness  and  misery,  cry,  day  and  night,  "  Come  to  our  rescue^ 
ye,  bright  sons  and  daughters  of  America,  come  and  save  us, 

FOR    WE    ARE    SINKING    INTO    HELL." 

I  am,  however,  most  grateful  and  happy  that  three  new 
missionaries,  with  their  wives,  have  lately  arrived,  and  are 
now  applying  themselves  to  the  language,  and  preparing  to 
come  up  to  the  help  of  the  Lord  against  the  mighty.  May  he 
preserve  their  lives  many  years,  and  make  them  more  success- 
ful and  blessed  than  the'ir  predecessors. 

To  Mrs.  Boardman. 

Rangoon,  March  4,  1831. 
My  DEAR  Sister  :  You  are  now  drinking  the  bitter  cup 
whose  dregs  I  ain  somewhat  acquainted  with.  And  though, 
for  some  time,  you  have  been  aware  of  its  approach,  I  venture 
to  say  that  it  is  far  bitterer  than  you  expected.  It  is  common 
for  persons  in  your  situation  to  refuse  all  consolation,  to  cling 
to  the  dead,  and  to  fear  that  they  shall  too  soon  forget  the  dear 
object  of  their  affections.  But  don't  be  concerned.  I  can  as- 
sure you  that  months  and  months  of  heart-rending  anguish 
are  before  you,  whether  you  will  or  not.  I  can  only  advise 
you  to  take  the  cup  with  both  hands,  and  sit  down  quietly  to 
the  bitter  repast  which  God  has  appointed  for  your  sanctiiica- 
tion.  As  to  your  beloved,  you  know  that  all  his  tears  are 
wiped  away,  and  that  the  diadem  which  encircles  his  brow 
outshines  the  sun.  Little  Sarah  and  the  other  have  again 
found  their  father,  not  the  frail,  sinful  mortal  that  they  left  on 
earth,  but  an  immortal  saint,  a  magnificent,  majestic  king.  What 
more  can  you  desire  for  them  ?  While,  therefore,  your  tears 
flow,  let  a  due  proportion  be  tears  of  joy.  Yet  take  the  bitter 
cup  with  both  hands,  and  sit  down  to  your  repast.  You  will 
soon  learn  a  secret,  thnt  there  is  sweetness  at  the  bottom.  You 
will  find  it  the  sweetest  cup  that  you  ever  tasted  in  all  your 
life.  You  will  find  heaven  coming  near  to  you,  and  familiarity 
with  your  husband's  voice  will  be  a  connecting  link,  drawing 
you  almost  within  the  sphere  of  celestial  music. 


DEATH    OP    liOARDMAN.  527 

I  think,  from  what  I  know  of  your  mind,  that  you  will  not 
desert  the  post,  but  remain  to  carry  on  the  work  which  he  glo- 
riously began.  The  Karens  of  Tavoy  regard  you  as  their 
spiritual  mother ;  and  the  dying  prayers  of  your  beloved  are 
waiting  to  be  answered  in  bles^sings  on  your  instructions. 

As  to  Uttle  Georgie,  who  has  now  no  earthly  father  to  care 
for  him,  you  cannot,  of  course,  part  with  him  at  present.  But 
if  you  should  wish  to  send  him  home,  I  pledge  myself  to  use 
what  little  influence  I  have  in  procuring  for  him  all  those  ad- 
vantages of  education  Avhich  your  fondest  wishes  can  desire. 
Or  if  you  should  be  prematurely  taken  away,  and  should  con- 
descend, on  your  dying  bed,  to  commit  him  to  me,  by  the 
briefest  line  or  verbal  message,  I  hereby  pledge  my  fidelity  to 
receive  and  treat  him  as  my  own  son,  to  send  him  home  in  the 
best  time  and  way,  to  provide  for  his  education,  and  to  watch 
over  him  as  long  as  I  live.  More  than  this  I  cannot  do,  and 
less  would  be  unworthy  of  the  merits  of  his  jjarents. 

As  to  yourself,  I  know  of  nothing  that  I  can  do  for  you.  It 
occurs,  however,  to  say,  that  I  hope  you  will  feel  no  uneasi- 
ness, or  think  it  necessary  to  make  any  inquiries,  about  your 
support.  By  our  regulations,  a  widow  is  entitled  to  seventy 
rupees  a  month,  and  a  child  ten  rupees.  But  as  Mr.  Beeby 
may  not  understand  this  matter,  I  enclose  a  note  to  him,  which 
you  can  forward  or  suppress,  as  you  think  proper. 

You  will,  moreover,  receive  ere  long  a  reply  from  the  board 
to  the  application  which  Mr.  Boardman  made  on  this  subject. 
I  remain,  dear  sister, 

Your  sympathizing  brother, 

A.  JUDSON. 

p.  S.  I  should  be  glad  to  know  that  my  letter  of  six  weeks 
or  two  months  ago  reached  brother  Boardman  before  he  died. 

To  Rev.  Mr.  Grow,  of  Thompson,  Conn. 

E.AXGOON,  March  4,  1831. 
Rev.  and  dear  Brother  :  Your  letter  of  the  19th  July 
last  is  before  me,  and  your  fifty  dollars  are  in  the  hands  of  Mr. 


528  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

Jones,  at  Maulmain,  who  writes  me  that  he  is  rearly  to  pay  it 
to  my  order.  The  sentiments  expressed  in  your  letter  are 
cheering  and  encouraging  to  my  heart.  I  wish  that  all  Bap- 
tist ministers  felt  so,  and  would  all  make  such  presents,  though 
I  should  prefer  their  being  made  directly  to  the  board.  My 
gratitude,  however,  in  both  cases  is  sincere. 

The  great  annual  festival  is  just  past,  during  which  multi- 
tudes come  from  the  remotest  parts  of  the  country  to  worship 
at  the  great  Shway  Dagong  pagoda,  in  this  place,  where  it  is 
believed  that  several  real  hairs  of  Gaudama  are  enshrined. 
During  the  festival,  I  have  given  away  nearly  ten  thousand 
tracts,  giving  to  none  but  those  who  ask.  I  presume  there 
have  been  six  thousand  applications  at  the  house.  Some  come 
two  or  three  months'  journey,  from  the  borders  of  Siam  {ind 
China  —  "  Sir,  we  hear  that  there  is  an  eternal  hell.  We  are 
afraid  of  it.  Do  give  us  a  writing  that  will  tell  us  how  to  es- 
cape it."  Others  come  from  the  frontiers  of  Kathay,  a  hundred 
miles  north  of  Ava  —  "  Sir,  we  have  seen  a  writing  that  tells 
about  an  eternal  God.  Are  you  the  man  that  gives  away  such 
writings  ?  If  so,  pray  give  us  one,  for  we  want  to  know  the 
truth  before  we  die."  Others  come  from  the  interior  of  the 
country,  where  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  is  a  little  known  — 
"Are  you  Jesus  Christ's  man?  Give  us  a  writing  that  tells 
about  Jesus  Christ."  Brother  Bennett  works  day  and  night  at 
the  press  ;  but  he  is  unable  to  supply  us ;  for  the  call  is  great 
at  Maulmain  and  Tavoy,  as  well  as  here,  and  his  types  are 
very  poor,  and  he  has  no  efficient  help.  The  fact  is,  that  wt3 
are  very  weak,  and  have  to  complain  that  hitherto  we  have  not 
been  well  supported  from  home.  It  is  most  distressing  to  find, 
when  we  are  almost  w^orn  out,  and  are  sinking,  one  after  an- 
other, into  the  grave,  that  many  of  our  brethren  in  Chi-ist  at 
home  are  just  as  hard  and  immovable  as  rocks ;  just  as  cold 
and  repulsive  as  the  mountains  of  ice  in  the  polar  seas.  But 
whatever  they  do,  we  cannot  sit  still,  and  see  the  dear  Bur- 
mans,  flesh  and  blood  like  ourselves,  and  like  ourselves  pos- 
sessed of  immortal  souls,  that  will  shine  forever  in  heaven,  or 
burn  forever  in  hell —  we  cannot  see  them  go  (Jown  to  perdi- 


WORK    OF    TRANSLATION.  .529 

tion  without  doing  our  very  utmost  to  save  them.  And  thanks 
be  to  God,  our  labors  are  not  in  vain.  We  have  three  lovely 
churches,  and  about  two  hundred  baptized  converts,  and  some 
are  in  glory.  A  spirit  of  religious  inquiry  is  extensively 
spreading  tliroughout  the  country,  and  the  signs  of  the  times 
indicate  that  the  great  renovation  of  Burmah  is  drawing  near. 
O,  if  we  had  about  twenty  more  versed  in  the  language,  and 
means  to  spread  schools,  and  tracts,  and  Bibles,  to  any  extent, 
how  happy  I  should  be  !  But  those  rocks  and  those  icy  moun- 
tains have  crushed  us  down  for  many  years.  However,  I 
must  not  leave  my  work  to  write  letters.  It  is  seldom  that  I 
write  a  letter  home,  except  my  journal,  and  that  I  am  obliged 
to  do.  I  took  up  my  pen  merely  to  acknowledge  your  kind- 
ness, and  behold  I  have  scratched  out  a  long  letter,  whicli  I 
hope  you  will  excuse,  and  believe  me, 

In  haste,  your  affectionate  brother  in  Christ, 

A.    JUDSON. 

To  the  Corresponding  Secretari/. 

Raxgoox,  May  22,  1831. 
Rev.  and  dear  Sir  :  I  am  surprised  to  see  that  my  last 
date  is  three  months  ago.  The  truth  is,  I  have  been  so  ab- 
sorbed in  translating,  that  I  have  been  hardly  sensible  of  the 
lapse  of  time.  I  am  just  finishing  the  books  of  Isaiah  and  Gen- 
esis, having  kept  them  along  together,  the  one  by  way  of  re- 
freshment after  the  toil  of  the  other.  I  have  done  but  little 
missionary  work,  except  distributing  tracts  and  superintending 
the  native  assistants.  But  as  Genesis,  Psalms,  Solomon's 
Song,  Isaiah,  and  Daniel,  some  of  the  most  important  books  of 
the  Old  Testament,  are  now  just  done,  I  propose  to  cliange  my 
course  of  labor.  Moung  En  is  settled  with  me,  having  brouglit 
his  wife,  Mali  Nen-yay,  from  Maulmain.  His  department  is  to 
receive  company  at  the  house.  His  wife  assists  her  husband, 
and  also  teaches  a  small  school  of  four  children  at  present, 
two  of  them  belonging  to  Moung  Sanlone,  formerly  of  Maul- 
main, but  now  settled  in  Rangoon.  Moung  Sanlone  the  sec- 
ond, (or  Tsai\-loue,  as  I  will  write  his  name  in  future  to  distin- 
VOL.  I.  45 


530  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

guish  it  from  the  other)  is  becoming  a  valuable  assistant.  It 
is  his  business  to  go  about  the  place,  distribute  tracts,  and  con- 
verse wherever  he  can  get  an  opportunity ;  and  he  sometimes 
makes  short  excursions  to  the  neighboring  villages.  He  fre- 
quently meets  with  very  rough  treatment,  which,  as  far  as  I 
can  learn,  he  bears  well. 

It  has  been  my  habit  for  several  months  past  to  perambu- 
late the  streets  every  morning  about  sunrise,  distributing  tracts 
to  those  who  ask.  At  first  I  gave  away  fifteen  or  twenty  a 
day.  The  average  has  now  risen  to  seventy.  We  think,  from 
inquiry  and  observation,  that  very  few  are  destroyed.  They 
are  in  almost  every  house,  and  are  read  in  private.  The  truth 
is  unquestionably  spreading.  Were  it  not  for  the  fear  of  gov- 
ernment, I  think  the  spread  in  this  place  would  be  rapid- 
There  are  a  good  many  hopeful  inquirers,  but  when  they  ar- 
rive at  a  certain  point,  their  visits  become  few  and  far  betweeii. 
They  see  the  Rubicon  before  them,  and  dare  not  pass.  The 
number  of  such  persons  is  continually  increasing.  This  cannot 
last  always.  God  will,  I  trust,  make  a  bridge  to  facilitate 
their  passage. 

i  I  hear  that  brother  Wade  has  raised  up  a  church  of  four- 
teen Karens,  in  the  neighborhood  of  Maulmain,  and  that 
brother  Kincaid  and  brother  Jones  have  large  and  attentive 
assemblies  from  the  army.  Pour  out,  O  Lord,  thy  Holy 
Spirit  upon  all  our  feeble  efforts,  that  we  may  be  more  suc- 
cessful, and  upon  thy  baptized  people  at  home,  that  they  may 
begin  at  last  to  wake  up  to  the  subject  of  missions,  even 
though  they  have  been  sleeping  these  eighteen  years  —  not  to 
say  centuries.* 

June  6.  I  hear  that  three  more  natives  and  three  Euro- 
peans have  joined  the  church  in  Maulmain.  But  at  the  same 
time,  I  am  distressed  to  hear  that  Mrs.  Wade  is  rapidly  sink- 

*  The  man  of  sin  sleejjs  not,  nor  his  father.  Witness  one  bishop 
and  two  priests  lately  arrived  from  Prome,  by  way  of  the  Red  Sea, 
in  addition  to  four  others  in  the  country.  Two  of  them  are  just  pro- 
ceeding to  Ava.  I  hear  also  that  they  are  building  a  church  at 
Maulmain. 


NEED    OF    REENEOUCE.MENT.  531 

ing,  and  that  nothing  can  save  her  life  but  a  long  voyage. 
To  this  measure  her  attending  physician,  Dr.  Brown,  has  long 
urged  her.  But  her  extreme  reluctance  "to  leave  all  she 
loves  below  the  skies,  and  go  off,"  seemed  to  be  an  insuperable 
objection.  At  length  the  brethren  met,  and  formally  advised 
her  to  go  home  immediately,  and  brother  Wade  to  accompany 
her,  partly  on  account  of  his  own  health,  which  is  daily  get- 
ting worse.  A  copy  of  their  resolution  they  sent  to  me,  and 
I  have  sent  back  my  entire  approbation.  I  should  not  won- 
der if  they  were  now  on  their  way  to  Bengal.  I  hope  they  are. 
I  have  also  written  to  the  brethren  to  know  what  I  shall  do 
with  myself  in  the  mean  time.  I  know  not  whether  they  can 
keep  the  press  moving  without  me.  And  though  they  can, 
what  will  become  of  the  native  flock  in  Maulmain  ?  What 
of  the  Karens  ?  What  of  all  the  people  in  the  ceded  prov- 
inces, from  Tenasserira  to  the  frontiers  of  China?  What  of 
all  the  people  from  Rangoon  to  Ava  ?  I  am  startled  and  ter- 
rified to  find  that,  by  several  unexpected  moves,  I  am  left,  as 
it  were,  alone ;  there  being  not  another  foreigner  in  all  the 
country  that  can  preach  the  gospel  to  the  perishing  millions, 
north  and  south,  or  feed  the  infant  churches,  except,  indeed, 
Mrs.  Bennett,  who  has  begun  to  take  the  management  of  the 
female  meetings.  My  prayers  to  God  and  my  entreaties  to 
my  brethren  at  home  seem  to  have  equal  efficacy.  Since  the 
last  missionaries  left  home,  I  perceive  hO  further  signs  of  life. 
All  seem  to  have  gone  to  slumbering  and  sleeping.  How- 
ever, it  is  a  comfort  that  those  last  arrived  are  on  the  ground ; 
and  I  cannot  but  sanguinely  hope  that  dear  brother  and  sister 
Wade  will,  in  due  time,  return  with  renovated  health  and  a 
fresli  reenforcement. 

A.   JUDSON. 

Journal. 

Rangoon,  June  18,  1831.  I  have  been  employed  several 
days  in  studying  Professor  Stuart's  Commentary  on  the 
Hebrews,  and  revising  my  translation  of  that  Epistle. 

I  have  received  letters  from  Maulmain,  in  answer  to  my 


532 


MEMOIR    OF    DR.  JUDSON. 


inquiries.  Brother  Wade  being  obliged  to  leave  for  the 
present,  the  brethren  recommended  my  removing  to  Maul- 
main.  I  return  the  favor  by  recommending  the  removal  of 
one  of  the  brethren  to  this  place. 

July  20.  I  have  just  finished  the  first  part  of  Exodus, 
that  is,  twenty  chapters,  as  an  appendix  to  Genesis.  I  now- 
shut  up  my  translating  books,  having  received  the  gratifying 
intelligence  from  brother  Jones,  that  he  will  be  ready  to  re- 
lieve this  post  on  the  2oth,  soon  after  which  I  shall  embark 
for  Maulmain.  Though  we  have  had  a  very  great  number 
of  inquirers,  and  some  of  them  very  hopeful,  we  have  had 
l»ut  few  baptisms.  Many  of  them  come  from  a  distance,  and 
return,  I  trust,  to  spread  the  light  around  them ;  but  we  see 
them  no  more  for  the  present. 

I  have  sent  Moung  Shway-doke  with  three  thousand  tracts 
up  the  Laing  River,  which  breaks  off  from  the  Rangoon  out- 
let a  little  above  Rangoon,  and  joins  the  great  River  Tingdau, 
below  Prome.  It  passes  through  a  populous  part  of  the 
country,  where  the  word  of  life  has  never  yet  been  published. 
Moung  Sanlone  has  left  me  this  morning,  with  twenty-five 
hundred  tracts,  to  visit  the  neighborhood  of  old  Pegu,  on 
the  east ;  and  Moung  Shway-too  will  shortly  leave  with 
three  thousand,  for  the  large  towns  of  Pan-ta-nau  and  Bassein, 
on  the  west.  These  disbursements  have  reduced  me  to  my 
last  thousand,  with  which  we  shall  endeavor  to  hold  out,  in 
expectation  of  the  reenforcement  which  is  near  at  hand. 

July  23.  I  had  the  pleasure  of  welcoming  brother  and 
sister  Jones. 

Left  Rangoon,  July  26,  and  on  the  11th  of  August,  after 
a  very  tedious  passage,  reached  the  mission  premises  at  Maul- 
main, where  I  had  no  sooner  set  foot  than  I  found  myself  sur- 
rounded by  a  crowd  of  native  Christians,  children  of  the 
school  and  members  of  the  mission ;  and  our  joy  was  recipro- 
cal. Find  there  are  continual  accessions  to  the  European 
church  under  the  care  of  brother  Kincaid,  some  encouraging 
news  from  the  Karens  in  the  north,  but  prospects  among  the 
native  population  of  Maulmain  rather  dark. 


FRAGMENTS.  533 

Pencillkd  Fragments,  without  Date. 
Topics  to  encourage  Prayer. 

Wrestling  Jacob. 

Friend  at  midnight. 

The  unjust  judge. 

Satan  fights  neither  with  small  nor  great,  save  only  with 
the  spirit  of  prayer. 

An  effort  made  in  aridity,  in  wandering  of  thought,  under 
a  strong  tendency  to  some  other  occupation,  is  more  pleasing 
to  God,  and  helps  tlie  soul  forward  in  grace  more  than  a  long 
prayer  without  temptation. 

Whatever  others  do,  let  my  life  be  a  life  of  prayer. 

Get  the  King's  daughter,  and  you  get  all ;  the  grace  of 
devotion  is  the  daughter  of  God. 

1.  Self-denial. 

2.  Do  nothing  from  your  own  will,  but  all  from  the  will 
of  God. 

3.  The  Holy  Spirit  is  the  soul  of  the  ransomed  soul.  — 
Fenelon, 

4.  Keep  turning  the  soul  to  God  until  it  habitually  rest  in 
God.  —  Guion. 

5.  Strive  after  the  spirit  of  prayer,  rather  than  to  pray. 
—  Kempis. 

6.  Keep  the  cross  of  Christ  in  view. 

7.  Listen  to  the  voice  within. 

Points  of  Self- denial. 

1.  The  passion  for  neatness,  uniformity,  and  order,  in  ar- 
rangement of  things  —  in  dress,  in  writing,  in  grounds. 

2.  A  disposition  to  suffer  annoyance  from  little  improprie- 
ties in  the  behavior  and  conversation  of  others. 

3.  A  desire  to  appear  to  advantage,  to  get  hbnor  and  avoid 
shame.     "  Come  shame,  come  sorrow,"  &c. 

4.  A  desire  for  personal  ease  and  comfort,  and  a  reluctance 
to  suffer  inconvenience. 

5.  Unwillingness  to  bear  contradiction. 

4-5* 


534  IMKMOIK    OF    DR.    JUDSOX. 

In  several  of  the  foregoing  letters,  it  may  liave  been 
observed  that  allusion  is  made  to  the  works  of  Lady 
Guion  and  some  other  distinguished  quietists  of  the 
Catholic  church.  The  attachment  of  Dr.  Judson  to 
writings  of  this  class,  some  of  the  sentiments  which 
he  embraced,  and  the  rules  of  living  which  he  adopted, 
were,  at  the  time,  a  source  of  uneasiness  to  many  of 
his  friends.  Even  now  they  are  somewhat  unwill- 
ingly called  to  remembrance,  or  are  alluded  to  as 
facts  which  prove  that  his  tendencies  were  imagina- 
tive and  mystical,  and  that  the  soundness  of  his  judg- 
ment is  by  no  means  to  be  relied  upon.  I  consider  it 
my  duty  —  and  I  perform  it  with  pleasure  —  to  state 
the  facts  of  the  case  just  as  they  occurred,  offering  at 
the  close  such  suggestions  as  the  narrative  has  awa- 
kened in  my  own  mind. 

It  will  be  borne  in  recollection  that  Dr.  Judson 
had,  a  short  time  before,  suffered  an  imprisonment 
of  twenty-one  months  in  Ava,  under  circumstances 
which  rendered  the  preservation  of  his  life  almost 
miraculous.  While  his  health  was  still  suffering  from 
the  effects  of  this  captivity,  his  wife,  whom  he  loved 
almost  to  idolatry,  was  taken  from  him,  and  he  re- 
turned to  a  desolate  home,  to  lay  by  her  side,  under 
the  hope  tree,  the  only  child  that  she  had  left  him. 
He  proceeded  steadily  and  earnestly  with  his  work,  as 
though  none  of  this  had  happened  ;  but  it  is,  I  sup- 
pose, to  be  remembered  that  Christians  and  missiona- 
ries have  the  same  physical  nature,  the  same  brain 
and  nerves,  and  the  same  domestic  affections,  as  other 
men.  While'  Dr.  Judson,  in  all  this,  bowed  to  the 
will  of  his  Father  in  heaven  with  unquestioning  sub- 
mission, the  pain  which  his  sensitive  nature  endured 
must  have  been  as  great  as  could  be  borne  without 


RKVIKW    or    HIS    AUSTERITIKS.  535 

pioduciiig  derangement.  The  world  had  lost  for  hiui 
all  its  charms;  and  he  looked  upon  it  only  as  a  field 
for  the  discharge  of  duty.  His  thoughts  all  tended  to 
the  heaven  where  were  gathered  all,  both  created  and 
uncreated,  that  he  most  dearly  loved.  The  realities 
of  eternity  were  ever  present  to  his  mind  ;  and  there 
naturally  arose  within  him  a  desire,  amounting  to  a 
passion,  to  become  assimilated  as  nearly  as  it  was 
possible  to  those  whom  he  loved,  who  were  now 
without  sin.  He  meditated  on  the  delineations  and 
the  examples  of  Christian  character  contained  in  the 
New  Testament,  and  compared  them  with  the  stan- 
dard of  piety  by  which  the  moral  efforts  of  the  disci- 
ples of  Christ  are  now  limited  ;  and  he  became  con- 
vinced that  religious  men  might  arrive  at  vastly  higher 
attainments  in  holiness  if  they  earnestly  and  honestly 
desired  it.  Having  come  to  this  conclusion,  he  at 
once  determined  to  reduce  his  theory  to  practice,  and 
seek  for  the  nearest  and  most  constant  communion 
with   God  of  which   his  nature  was  capable. 

He  devoted  himself  to  this  work  with  characteristic 
energy.  It  is  to  be  observed,  however,  that  the  disci- 
pline to  which  he  subjected  himself  was  merely  the 
means  to  an  end.  He  desired  to  subdue  every  im- 
pulse, and  to  conquer  every  habit,  which  interfered 
with  supreme  love  to  God  and  disinterested  love 
to  man.  While  he  was  thus  mortifying  the  sensual, 
he  was  also  cultivating  the  spiritual  by  earnest  devo- 
tion and  the  exercise  of  self-denying  charity.  The 
means  to  which  he  resorted  were  such  as  proved  him 
to  be  most  thoroughly  in  earnest,  and  singularly  capa- 
ble of  conforming  his  practice  to  the  principles  of 
duty  by  which  he  was  governed. 

He  resolved  to  overcome  every  form  of  selfishness. 


536  MKAiont  OF   DK.  JiinsoN. 

and  cultivate  in  his  soal  the  largest  measure  of  love 
to  man.  He  observed  that  missions  were  languishing 
for  want  of  funds,  and,  as  no  human  being  was  de- 
pendent on  him  for  support,  he  gave  to  the  board  his 
whole  patrimonial  estate.  His  love  of  order  and  neat- 
ness was  excessive,  and  liable  to  interfere  with  his 
labors  among  the  filthy  Karens.  He  overcame  this 
tendency  by  ministering  to  the  sick  under  the  most 
revolting  diseases.  In  youth,  he  had  cherished  an  in- 
tense desire  for  reputation  ;  and  even  his  father  had 
cultivated,  rather  than  repressed,  this  infirmity.  The 
severe  dispensations  which  had  been  meted  out  to 
him  had,'in  a  great  measure,  corrected  this  propen- 
sity ;  but  there  yet  lingered  within  him  a  desire  for 
posthumous  reputation.  ^To  mortify  this  weakness, 
he  caused  all  his  correspondence,  so  far  as  it  was  in 
his  power,  to  be  destroyed,  and  committed  to  the 
flames  a  letter  of  thanks  for  his  services  from  the 
governor  general  of  India,  together  with  several  other 
documents  of  a  similar  character.  He  w^ent  still  far- 
ther. He  desired  to  subdue  every  appetite  that  might 
interfere  with  perfect  consecration  of  the  soul  to  God. 
He  therefore  built  in  the  edge  of  the  jungle  a  bamboo 
house,  which  he  called  the  "hermitage,"  where  he 
lived  upon  rice  for  weeks  together,  mingling  in  no 
society,  and  seeing  only  those  persons  who  came  to 
him  for  religious  instruction,  that  thus  he  might  render 
his  intense  love  for  his  friends  perfectly  subordinate  to 
his  love  to  God.  This  time  was  devoted  to  prayer 
and  the  work  of  translating  the  Scriptures.  To  these 
austerities  was  added  the  habit  of  frequent  fasting, 
which,  in  fact,  he  continued  to  the  close  of  his  life. 
He  had  suffered  much  from  a  peculiar  form  of  dread 
of  death — not  the  separation  of  the  soul   from   the 


REVIEW    OF    Ills    AUSTERITIES.  537 

body,  or  any  doubt  of  ultimate  acceptance  with  God, 
but  a  nervous  shrinking  from  decay  and  corruption  — 
the  mildewing  and  mouldering  in  dark,  damp,  silent 
ghastlineSvS.  He  believed  this  to  be  the  result  of  pride 
and  self-love  ;  and,  in  order  to  mortify  and  subdue  it, 
he  had  a  grave  dug,  and  would  sit  by  the  verge  of  it, 
and  look  into  it,  imagining  how  each  feature  and 
]imb  would  appear  days,  months,  and  years  after  he 
had  lain  there.  Once,  when  worn  out  with  transla- 
tions, and  really  needing  rest,  he  went  over  the  hills 
into  the  thick  jungle,  far  beyond  all  human  habitation, 
though  still  overlooked  by  a  moss-grown  pagoda,  so 
distant  that  even  the  strictest  devotee  of  Gaudama 
never  thought  of  visiting  it.  To  this  place  he  brought 
his  Bible,  and  sat  down  under  the  wild  jungle  trees 
to  read,  and  meditate,  and  pray,  and  at  night  returned 
to  the  "  hermitage."  The  next  morning,  when  he 
went  to  his  retreat,  he  found  a  rude  bamboo  seat  in 
the  place,  and  the  branches  of  the  trees  woven  for  a 
canopy  over  his  head.  He  never  knew  to  whom  he 
was  indebted  for  this  watchfulness  ;  but  Ko  En  in- 
formed Mrs.  Judson  that  it  was  Ko  Dwah,*  the  dea- 
con, whose  fear  of  tigers  was  so  far  overcome  by  his 

*  This  man  was  devotedly  attached  to  Dr.  Judson.  Both  Avere 
taken  sick  at  nearly  the  same  time,  so  that  during  their  illness  they 
met  but  once,  and  the  old  deacon  coxdd  not,  with  the  other  disciples, 
accompany  the  dying  pastor  to  the  wharf.  As  soon  as  Dr.  Judson 
removed,  the  house  which  he  occupied,  and  which  had  long  been  con- 
demned by  Dr.  ]\Iorton  for  its  uuhealthmess,  was  removed.  Ko  Dwah 
was  not  aware  of  the  circumstance,  thoxigh  living  in  the  vicinity,  \xn- 
til  the  spot  was  left  bare.  He  then  insisted  on  lea-s-ing  his  bed  to 
look  upon  the  ruin.  He  hobbled  on  his  staff  across  the  road,  ascend- 
ed the  chapel  steps  with  great  dilKculty,  and  then  sitting  down,  rested 
his  chin  on  his  pahns,  and  burst  into  a  loud,  wild  sort  of  lamentation, 
like  the  wailing  at  a  funeral.  Neither  mind  nor  body  ever  recovered 
from  the  shock,  though  he  Lingered  on  for  some  time  longer. 


538  MEMOIR    OF    DK.    JUDSON. 

affection,  that  he  braved  the  dangers  of  the  dusk  to 
accomplish  his  pious  purpose.  This  place  of  resort 
was  considered  by  the  natives  so  dangerous,  that  Dr. 
Judson's  preservation  during  the  forty  days  which  he 
spent  there,  partaking  of  no  food  except  a  little  rice, 
was  regarded  by  them  as  a  repetition  of  the  miracle 
of  Daniel. 

Ill  this  manner  were  several  months  of  this  part  of 
the  life  of  Dr.  Judson  spent.  The  whole  energy  of  his 
nature  was  directed  to  the  attainment  of  perfect  self- 
government  and  intimate  communion  with  God.  His 
labors  in  the  translation  were,  however,  not  intermit- 
ted. He  strove  to  impose  these  austerities  on  no  one 
else  ;  but  to  his  intimate  friends  he  frequently  spoke 
of  the  necessity  of  aiming  at  a  higher  degree  of  sanc- 
tification  than  was  commonly  attained.  He  censured 
no  one  —  a  virtue  not  always  in  practice,  either  by 
ascetics  or  self-indulgent  Christians.  The  more  he 
examined  his  own  heart,  and  tested  his  own  motives, 
the  farther  did  he  seem  removed  from  that  perfect 
holiness  to  which  he  aspired.  He  did  not,  I  believe, 
ever  conceive  himself  to  have  arrived  at  the  perfection 
which  he  sought ;  and,  had  he  been  suffered  to  enter- 
tain any  doubts  of  his  acceptance  with  God,  he  must 
have  become  instantly  insane.  He  was  spared  this 
trial.  He  had  never  any  doubt  of  his  title  to  a  heav- 
enly inheritance  ;  and  all  his  desire  was,  the  better  to 
prepare  himself  to  enjoy  it.  In  subsequent  life,  though 
he  looked  back  upon  this  portion  of  his  moral  history 
with  trembling,  yet  he  firmly  believed  that  he  had 
derived  from  it  benefits  which  could  not,  perhaps, 
otherwise  have  been  attained.  Those  who  knew  him 
best  trace  to  this  period  that  unusual  self-possession, 
that  victory  over  the  allurements  of  the  world,  that 


RKVIKW    OF    HIS    AUSTi:UlTIES.  0.39 

habitual  tendency  of  the  soul  towards  the  realities  of 
eternity,  and  that  loving  trust  in  God  under  the  most 
discouraging  circumstances,  which  so  distinctly  mark^id 
the  remainder  of  his  career. 

If,  now,  we  reflect  upon  this  passage  in  the  life  of 
Dr.  Judson,  I  think  we  shall  be  convinced  that  it  is  by 
no  means  deserving  of  the  sort  of  remark  to  which  it 
has  given  rise.  Pie  was  striving  for  the  same  attain- 
ments which  President  Edwards,  Payson,  BaxtcM-, 
Bishop  Wilson,  and  a  multitude  of  others,  whose  lives 
are  considered  worthy  models  for  Christian  imitation, 
most  earnestly  sought  after.  His  labors  w^ere  more 
intense,  and  his  austerities  more  painful,  than  many 
of  these  holy  men  underwent ;  but  this  arose  from 
the  self-sacrificing  energy  of  his  nature,  modified,  at 
the  time,  by  the  condition  of  his  nervous  system  — 
shattered  almost  to  insanity  by  sickness,  captivity, 
torture,  and  the  severest  of  all  bereavements. 

But  we  are  not  obliged  to  rest  our  defence  of  this 
part  of  Dr.  Judson's  conduct  even  here.  We  may  go 
farther,  and  ask,  What  was  the  object  which  he  so 
earnestly  desired  ?  It  was  the  highest  attainment  in 
virtue,  in  supreme  love  to  God,  and  universal  charity 
to  man.  Can  any  object  be  more  worthy  of  an  intel- 
ligent and  accountable  being  ?  By  what  means  did 
he  attempt  to  cultivate  his  moral  nature?  By  prayer, 
the  mortification  of  the  appetites,  and  the  practice  of 
charity.  These  are  certainly  suitable  means,  and 
such  as  the  Scriptures,  and  men  who  love  the  Scrip- 
tures best,  have  ever  recommended.  Our  Saviour 
declares  that,  unless  we  deny  ourselves,  we  cannot 
enter  his  kingdom.  But  it  is  said  that  Dr.  Judson 
carried  his  obedience  to  these  precepts  to  excess.  We 
ask,  Did  he  carry  them  to  such  an  excess  as  to  injure 


540  MEMOIR    OP    DR.    JUDSON. 

his  neighbor  ?  If  not,  his  neighbor  has  surely  no 
reason  to  complain.  Did  he,  in  consequence  of  these 
austerities,  neglect  any  duty  devolving  upon  him, 
either  as  a  Christian  or  a  missionary  ?  His  visit  to 
Prome  and  Rangoon  occmTed  during  this  very  period  ; 
can  any  thing  be  more  cheerful,  more  kind,  or  more 
natural  than  his  letters  from  these  places  ?  But  it 
may  be  asked.  Do  you  advise  us  all  to  live  in  this 
manner  ?  I  answer.  Did  Dr.  Judson  ever  advise  it  ? 
He  held  himself  up  as  a  model  to  no  one.  He  never 
even  proposed  to  himself  permanently  such  a  mode 
of  life.  He  only  adopted  it  for  a  time,  as  a  means  of 
moral  improvement  by  which  the  whole  of  his  future 
life  might  be  rendered  more  in  harmony  with  the  per- 
fect example  of  the  Saviour  whom  he  worshipped.  If 
there  is  any  thing  in  which  a  man  should  be  left  to 
act  specially  for  himself,  it  must  be  in  that  part  of  his 
conduct  which  pertains  to  his  relations  to  God.  If 
there  be  any  course  of  action  which  he  should  be 
allowed  to  pursue  without  censure,  it  must  be  that  in 
which  he  is  striving  to  cultivate  most  assiduously  love 
to  God  and  charity  to  man.  If  we  believe  the  means 
which  a  brother  adopts  to  be  unwise,  let  us,  by  our 
example,  teach  him  something  better.  But,  whatever 
opinion  we  may  form  of  the  means,  certainly  no 
rightly-constituted  mind  can  contemplate  without  rev- 
erence an  immortal  spirit  making  the  most  strenuous 
efforts  in  its  power  to  attain  to  near  resemblance  to 
the  Author  and  Exemplar  of  all  moral  perfection. 

If,  then,  it  be  asked  whether  we  advise  disciples  of 
Christ  to  follow  Dr.  Judson's  example  in  these  re- 
spects, we  answer,  By  no  means.  We  do,  however, 
advise  them  to  seek  as  earnestly  as  he  did  the  subju- 
gation of  the  appetites  and  passions,  and   the  most 


CIIAIJACTEIl    AND    IIADITS    OF    TIIK    KAllKNS.  a-il 

intimate  communion  possible  between  the  soul  and 
God.  As  to  the  means  to  be  employed,  let  each  one 
judge  for  himself.  Among  the  most  successful  of 
them  will,  I  think,  be  found  some  modification  of 
those  to  which  he  resorted  —  self-denial,  renunciation 
of  the  maxims,  amusements,  and  practices  of  the  men 
who  are  manifestly  living  for  this  present  world,  alms- 
giving, and  personal  labor  in  the  various  departments 
of  charity,  all  being  pervaded  by  a  spirit  of  fervent 
devotion.  In  debating  about  the  means,  let  us  not 
lose  sight  of  the  object  to  be  attained  ;  and  because 
we  disapprove  of  digging  a  grave  and  sitting  by  the 
side  of  it,  let  us  not  yield  ourselves  without  resistance 
to  the  lust  of  the  flesh,  the  lust  of  the  eyes,  and  the 
pride  of  life. 

In  the  preceding  pages,  mention  is  made  of  the 
Karens,  a  people  in  whom  Dr.  Judson  became  deep- 
ly interested,  and  whom  he  frequently  visited  on 
missionary  tours  in  their  native  jungles.  The  follow- 
ing notice  of  their  character  and  habits,  taken  from 
Mrs.  Emily  C.  Judson's  Life  of  Mrs.  Sarah  B.  Judson, 
was  made  under  the  eye  of  Dr.  Judson  himself. 

The  Karens  have  for  many  years  been  known  to  Ameri- 
can Christians,  and  have  shared  deeply  in  their  sympathies. 
Different  opinions  respecting  their  origin  have  from  time  to 
time  been  advanced ;  bnt  who  they  are,  or  whence  they  came, 
if  not  indigenous  to  the  Burmese  wilderness,  is  still  a  mystery, 
even  to  themselves.  Distant  resemblances  have  been  traced 
between  the  Karens  and  several  mountain  tribes  to  the  north 
of  Burmah  ;  but  nothing  satisfactory  wiUi  regard  to  their 
identity  has  yet  been  ascertained,  and  tlie  whole  subject  is 
one  of  loose  conjecture.  Their  numbers  have  also  been  va- 
riously estimated.  By  a  census  of  the  Tenasserim  provinces, 
taken  in  1839,  the  Karens  and  Toung-thoos  (the  latter  a 
VOL.  I.  46 


542  MEMOIR    OF    DR.    JUDSON. 

small  hill  tribe,  not  easily  distinguished  by  a  casual  observer) 
were  ascertained  to  number  thirteen  thousand  five  hundred 
and  three.  This  estimate  includes  those  of  both  races,  from 
the  province  of  Maulmain  on  the  north  to  Tavoy,  and  thence 
to  Mergui  on  the  south  ;  but  since  that  time  the  number  of 
Karens  has  been  considerably  increased  by  immigration,  es- 
pecially in  the  vicinity  of  Maulmain.  They  are  probably  four 
or  five  times  as  numerous  in  the  southern  part  of  Burmah, 
where  they  occupy  a  strip  of  territory  lying  between  Rangoon 
and  Bassein,  and  extending  along  the  borders  of  Arracan  ; 
while  a  third  division,  still  more  numerous,  people  a  range  of 
hills  stretching  off  to  the  north-east,  as  far  as  Toung-oo,  an  in- 
land city  half  way  between  Rangoon  and  Ava.  They  are  a 
rude,  wandering  race,  drawing  their  principal  support  from 
the  streams  that  flow  through  their  valleys,  and  from  the  nat- 
ural products  of  their  native  mountains.  They  migrate  in 
small  parties,  and,  when  they  have  found  a  favorable  spot,  fire 
the  underbrush,  and  erect  a  cluster  of  three  or  four  huts  on  the 
ashes.  In  the  intervals  of  procuring  food,  the  men  have  fre- 
quent occasion  to  hew  out  a  canoe  or  weave  a  basket ;  and  the 
women  manufacture  a  kind  of  cotton  cloth,  which  furnishes 
material  for  the  clothing  of  the  family.  Here  they  remain 
until  they  have  exhausted  the  resources  of  the  surrounding 
forest,  when  they  seek  out  another  spot,  and  repeat  the  same 
process. 

The  Karens  are  a  meek,  peaceful  race,  simple  and  credu- 
lous, with  many  of  the  softer  virtues,  and  few  flagrant  vices. 
Though  greatly  addicted  to  drunkenness,  extremely  filthy  and 
indolent  in  their  habits,  their  morals,  in  other  respects,  are  su- 
perior to  many  more  ciyilized  races.  Their  traditions,  like  those 
of  several  tribes  of  American  Indians,  are  a  curious  medley  of 
truth  and  absurdity  ;  but  they  have  some  tolerably  definite 
ideas  of  a  Great  Being,  who  governs  the  universe ;  and  many 
of  their  traditionary  precepts  bear  a  striking  resemblance  to 
those  of  the  gospel.  They  have  various  petty  superstitions  ; 
but,  with  the  exception  of  a  small  division,  known  to  the 
Burmans  as  tlie  Taling  Karens,  and  to  the  missionaries  as 


CHARACTER  AND  HABITS  OF  THE  KARENS.     .)  1 J 

Pwos  or  Slios,  they  have  never  adopted  Boodhism  ;  the  op- 
pressive treatment  which  they  have  received  at  the  hands  of 
their  Burmese  rulers  probably  contributing* to  increase  their 
aversion  to  idolatry. 

Soon  after  the  arrival  of  the  first  Burmese  missionary  in 
Rangoon,  his  attention  was  attracted  by  small  parties  of  strange, 
wild-looking  men,  clad  in  unshapely  garments,  who  from  time 
to  time  straggled  past  his  residence.  He  was  told  that  they 
were  called  Karens  ;  that  they  were  more  numerous  than  any 
similar  tribe  in  the  vicinity,  and  as  untamable  as  the  wild  cow 
of  the  mountains.  He  was  further  told  that  they  shrunk  from 
association  with  other  men,  seldom  entering  a  town,  except  on 
compulsion ;  and  that,  therefore,  any  attempt  to  bring  them 
within  the  sphere  of  his  influence  would  prove  unsuccessful. 
His  earnest  inquiries,  however,  awakened  an  mterest  in  the 
minds  of  the  Burmese  converts ;  and  one  of  them,  finding, 
during  the  war,  a  poor  Karen  bond  servant  in  Rangoon,  paid 
his  debt,  and  thus  became,  according  to  the  custom  of  the 
country,  his  temporary  master.  When  peace  was  restored,  he 
was  brought  to  the  missionaries  on  the  Tenasserim  coast,  and 
instructed  in  the  principles  of  the  Christian  religion.  He 
eventually  became  the  subject  of  regenerating  grace,  and 
proved  a  faithful  and  efficient  evangelist.  Through  this  man, 
who  will  be  recognized  as  Ko  Thah-byu,  access  was  gained 
to  others  of  his  countrymen,  and  they  listened  with  ready  in- 
terest. They  were  naturally  docile ;  they  had  no  long-cherished 
prejudices  and  time-honored  customs  to  fetter  them  ;  and  their 
traditions  taught  them  to  look  for  the  arrival  of  white-faced 
foreigners  from  the  West,  who  would  make  them  acquainted 
with  the  true  God.  The  missionaries,  in-  their  first  communi- 
cations with  the  Karens,  were  obliged  to  employ  a  Burmese 
interpreter ;  and,  notwithstanding  the  disadvantages  under 
which  they  labored,  the  truth  spread  with  great  rapidity. 
Soon,  however,  Messrs.  Wade  and  Mason  devoted  themselves 
to  the  acquisition  of  the  language,  and  the  former  conferred 
an  inestimable  blessing  on  the  race  by  reducing  it  to  writing. 
This  gave  a  fresh  impetus  to  the  spread  of  Christianity.     The 


544  MEMOIR    OF    DR.   JUDSON. 

wild  men  and  women,  in  tlieir  mountain  homes,  found  a  new 
employment ;  and  they  entered  upon  it  with  enthusiastic  avid- 
ity. They  had  i*ver  before  supposed  their  language  capable 
of  being  represented  by  signs,  like  other  languages  ;  and  they 
felt  themselves,  from  being  a  tribe  of  crushed,  down-trodden 
slaves,  suddenly  elevated  into  a  nation,  with  every  facility  for 
possessing  a  national  literature.  This  had  a  tendency  to 
check  their  roving  propensities  ;  and,  under  the  protection  of 
the  British  government,  they  began  to  cultivate  a  few  simple 
arts,  though  the  most  civilized  among  them  still  refuse  to  con- 
gregate in  towns,  and  it  is  unusual  to  find  a  village  that 
numbers  more  than  five  or  six  houses.  Their  first  reading 
books  consisted  of  detached  portions  of  the  gospel ;  and  the 
Holy  Spirit  gave  to  the  truth  thus  communicated  regenerating 
power.  Churches  sprang  up,  dotting  the  wilderness  like  so 
many  lighted  tapers ;  and  far  back  among  the  rocky  fastnesses 
of  the  mountains,  where  foreign  foot  has  never  trod,  the  light 
is  already  kindled,  and  will  continue  to  increase  in  brilhancy, 
till  one  of  the  darkest  corners  of  the  earth  shall  be  completely 
illuminated. 


END    OF    VOL.    I. 


lmi\°"  '"*'^°io9'"i  Sf„„ 


1    1012  01089  1879 


DATE  DUE 

n    inrn^  . 

-©s-J^^^JO"^*- 

!^: 

^ 

V 

DEMCO  38-297 

