r 


PROCEEDINGS 


OF   THE 


BAPTIST  CONVENTION 


FOR 


Missionary  Purposes 


HELD  IN  PHILADELPHIA, 


IN    MAT,    1814. 


PHILADELPHLV : 

ERINT&S  FOR  THE  CONVENTION,    BY  ANW  COIES^ 

1814. 


V 


CONSTITUTION. 


T  T  E  the  delegates  from  Missienary  Societies,  and  otheir 
religious  Bodies  of  the  Baptist  denomination,  in  various  parts 
of  the  United  States,  met  in  Convention,  in  the  City  of  Phila- 
delphia, for  the  purpose  of  carrying  into  effect  the  benevolent 
Intentions  of  our  Constituents,  by  organizing  a  plan  for  eliciting, 
combining,  and  directing  the  Energies  of  the  whole  Denomina- 
tion in  one  sacred  effort,  for  sending  the  glad  tidings  of  Salva- 
tion to  the  Heathen,  and  to  nations  destitute  of  pure  Gospel-light, 
DO  AGREE  to  the  foUowing  Rules  or  fundamental  Principles,  viz. 

I.  That  this  body  shall  be  styled  "The  General  Missionary 
*'  Convention  of  the  Baptist  Denomination  in  the  United  States 
*'  of  America,  for  Foreign  Missions.'* 

II.  That  a  triennial  Convention  shall,  hereafter,  be  held,  con* 
sisting  of  Delegates,  not  exceeding  two  in  number,  from  each 
of  the  several  Missionary  Societies,  and  other  religious  bodies 
of  the  Baptist  Denomination,  now  existing,  or  which  may  here- 
after be  formed  in  the  United  States,  and  which  shall  each,  regu- 
larly contribute  to  the  general  Missionary  Fund,  a  sum,  amount- 
ing, at  least,  to  one  hundred  Dollars,  per  annum. 

III.  That  for  the  necessary  transaction  and  dispatch  of  busi- 
ness, during  the  recess  of  the  said  Convention,  there  shall  be  a 
Board  of  twenty-one  Commissioners,  who  shall  be  members  of 
the  said  Societies,  Churches,  or  other  religious  bodies  aforesaid, 
triennially  appointed,  by  the  said  Convention,  by  ballot,  to  be 
called  the  "  Baptist  Board  of  Foreign  Missions  for  the  United 
States :"  seven  of  whom  shall  be  a  quorum  for  the  transaction 
of  all  business  ;  and  which  Board  shall  continue  in  office  until 
successors  be  duly  appointed  ;  and  shall  have  power  to  make 
and  adopt  by-laws  for  the  government  of  the  said  Board,  and 
for  the  furtherance  of  the  general  objects  of  the  Institution. 


4.  CONSTITUTION, 

IV.  That  it  shall  be  the  duty  of  this  Board,  to  employ  Mis* 
sionaries,  and,  if  necessary,  to  take  measures  for  the  improve- 
ment of  their  qualifications ;  to  fix  on  the  Field  of  their  La- 
bours, and  the  compensation  to  be  allowed  them  for  iheir  ser- 
vices;  to  superintend  their  conduct,  and  dismiss  them,  should 
their  services  be  disapproved ;  to  publish  accounts,  from  time 
to  time,  of  the  Board's  Transactions,  and  an  annual  Address  to 
the  public  ;  to  call  a  special  meeting  of  the  Convention  on  any 
extraordinary  occasion,  and,  in  general,  to  conduct  the  executive 
part  of  the  missionary  concern. 

V.  That  such  persons  only,   as  are  in  full  communion  with 
"Some  regular  Church  of  our  Denomination,  and  who  furnish  sa- 
tisfactory evidence  of  genuine  Piety,  good  Talents,  and  fervent 
Zeal  for  the  Redeemer's  Cause,   are  to  be  employed  as  Mis- 
sionaries. 

VI.  That  the  Board  shall  choose,  by  ballot,  one  President, 
two  Vice-Presidents,  a  Treasurer,  a  corresponding,  and  a  re- 
cording Secretary. 

VII.  That  the  president,  or  in  case  of  his  absence  or  disabil- 
ity, the  senior  vice-president  present,  shall  preside  in  all  meet- 
ings of  the  Board,  and  when  application  shall  be  made  in  writ- 
ing, by  any  two  of  its  members,  shall  call  a  special  meeting  of 
the  Board,  giving  due  notice  thereof. 

VIII.  That  the  treasurer  shall  receive  and  faithfully  account 
for  all  the  monies  paid  into  the  treasury,  keep  a  regular  account 
of  receipts  and  disbursements,  make  a  report  thereof  to  the  said 
Convention,  whenever  it  shall  be  in  session,  and  to  the  Board 
of  Missions  annually,  and  as  often  as  by  them  required  :  He 
shall  also,  before  he  enters  on  the  duties  of  his  office,  give  com- 
petent security,  to  be  approved  by  the  Board,  for  the  stock  and 
funds  that  may  be  committed  to  his  care. 

IX.  That  the  corresponding  secretary  shall  maintain  inter- 
course by  letter  with  suc|j^  individuals,  societies,  or  public  bodies, 
as  the  interest  of  the  institution  may  require.  Copies  of  all 
communications  made  by  the  particular  direction  of  the  Con- 
vention or  Board,  sViall  be  by  him  handed  to  the  recording  se- 
cretary, for  record  and  safe  keeping. 

3(.  That  the  recording  secretary  shall,  ex  officio,  be  the  se- 
cretary of  the  Convention,  unless  some  other  be  by  them  ap- 


CONSTITUTION.  S 

i^ointed  in  his  stead.  He  shall  attend  all  the  meetings  of  the 
Board,  and  keep  a  fair  record  of  all  their  proceedings,  and  of 
the  transactions  of  the  Convention. 

XI.  That  in  case  of  the  death,  resignation,  or  disability  of 
any  of  its  officers,  or  members,  the  Board  shall  have  power  to 
fill  such  vacancy. 

XII.  That  the  said  Convention  shall  have  power,  and  in  the 
interval  of  their  meeting,  the  Board  of  Commissioners,  on  the 
recommendation  of  any  one  of  the  constituent  bodies  belonging 
to  the  Convention,  shall  also  have  power,  to  elect  honorary 
members  of  piety  and  distinguished  liberality,  who,  on  their 
election,  shall  be  entitled  to  a  seat,  and  to  take  part  in  the  debates 
of  the  Convention  ;  but  it  shall  be  understood  that  the  right  of 
voting  shall  be  confined  to  the  delegates. 

XIII.  That  in  case  any  of  the  constituent  bodies  shall  be  un- 
able to  send  representatives  to  the  said  Convention,  they  shall 
be  permitted  to  vote  by  proxy,  which  proxy  shall  be  appointed 
by  writing, 

XIV.  That  any  alterations  which  experience  may  dictate 
from  time  to  time,  may  be  made  in  these  Articles,  at  the  regu- 
lar meeting  of  the  Convention,  by  two  thirds  of  the  members 
present. 

RICHARD  FURMAN,  PresidenU 

Attest^ 

THOMAS  BALDWIN,  Secretary. 


MINUTES. 


At  a  meeting  of  the  Delegates  from  associated  bodies  of  the  bap- 
tist denomination  formed  in  various  parts  of  the  United  States,  for 
the  purpose  of  diffusing  evangelic  light,  through  benighted  regions 
of  the  earth,  convened  at  Philadelphia  on  Wednesday  the  18th  of 
May,  1814. 

1.  Rev'd.  Dr.  Furman,  of  Charleston  S.  C.  was  called  to  the 
Chair,  who  opened  the  meeting  with  an  appropriate  prayer,  in 
which  the  feelings  of  all  present  appeared  to  be  solemnly  united. 
Rev'd.  Dr.  Baldwin,  of  Boston,  was  requested  to  officiate  as 
Secretary. 

2.  The  delegates  produced  their  testimonials,  and  their  names 
were  enrolled  in  the  following  order  j  geographical  situation  being 
kept  in  vi^w. 

Rev'd.  Thomas  Baldwin,  D.  D. 
Rev'd.  Lucius  BoUes,  A.  M. 


Rev'd.  Stephen  Gano,  A.  M. 

Rev'd.  John  Williams, 

Mr.  Thomas  Hewitt, 

Mr.  Edward  Probyn, 

Mr.  Nathaniel  Smith, 

Rev'd.  Burgiss  Allison,  D.  D. 

Rev'd.  Richard  Proudfoot, 

Rev'd.  Josiah  Stratton, 

Rev'd.  Wm.  Boswell, 

Rev'd.  Henry  Smalley,  A*  M. 

Mr.  Matthew  Randall, 

Mr.  John  Sisty, 

Mr.  Stephen  Ustick, 

Rev'd.  Wm.  Rogers,  D.  D. 

Rev'd.  Henry  Holcombe,  D.  D. 

Rev'd.  Wm.  Staughton,  D.  D. 

Rev'd.  Wm.  White,  A.  M. 

Rev'd.  John  P.  Peckworth, 

Rev'd.  Horatio  G.  Jones,  A,  M. 

Rev'd.  Silas  Hough, 

Rev'd.  Joseph  Mathias, 

Rev'd.  Daniel  Dodge, 


State  of  Massachusetts. 
State  of  Rhode  Island. 


J>StateofNew  York. 


r-State  of  New  Jersey, 


r'State  of  Pennsylvania. 


State  of  Delas'ar^ 


MINUTES. 

Rev'd.  Lewis  Richards,  >  g^^^^  ^^  Maryland. 

Rev'd.  Thomas  Brooke.  ^  "^ 

Rev'd.  Obadiah  B.  Brown,*  1 

Rev'd.  Wm.  GiJniore,*  i  District  of  Columbia^ 

Rev'd.  Luther  Rice,  A.  M.  J 

Rev'd.  Robert  B.  Seniple,  1 

Rev'd.  Jacob  Grigg,  i-State  of  Virginia. 

Rev'd.  John  Bryce,*  J 

Rev'd.  James  A.  Ranaldson,  State  of  North  Carolina, 


Rev'd.  Richard  Furman,   D.  D. 
Hon.  JIatthias  B.  Tallmadge, 


State  of  South  Carolina. 


Rev'd.  W.  B.  Johnson,  State  of  Georgia. 

*  Delegates  to  whoss  names  an  astersk  is  affixed  did  not  attend. 

3.  Agreed  that  a  meeting  of  solemn  prayer  be  held  in  the  house 
of  worship  of  the  1st  Baptist  church  in  this  city,  on  Saturday  even- 
ing next,  to  implore  the  direction  and  blessing  ef  the  Holy  Spirit) 
on  our  measures. 

4.  After  free  conversation  on  the  most  eligible  plan  for  attaining 
the  grand  object  this  convention  has  in  view,  it  was  resolved  that 
our  brethren  Baldwin,  BoUes,  Gano,  Williams,  Allison,  Holcombe, 
Rogers,  Staugliton,  Dodge,  Richards,  Rice,  Semple,  Panaldson, 
Furman  and  Johnson,  be  a  committee  to  prepare  and  report  such  a 
plan  without  delay. 

5.  Drs.  Furman,  Baldwin  and  Staughton,  were  requested  to  pre- 
pare an  address  on  the  subject  of  foreign  missions  and  the  general 
interests  of  the  Baptist  denomination,  to  be  circulated  among  the 
constituents  of  this  Convention  and  throughout  the  Union. 

6.  A  committee  was  appointed  consisting  of  Dr.  Holcombe  and 
Rev'd.  Messrs.  Gano  and  Rice,  to  collect  and  report  information 
relative  to  the  encouragement  already  altbrded  by  Societies  and  As- 
sociations in  behalf  of  Missionary  Interests,  and  the  prospects 
favourable  to  future  supplies. 

Dr.  Holcomsb  prayed. 

Adjonrmd  to  lo  o'clock  to-morrow. 


Thuksday,  May  i9th  I94f; 

J^et  pursmnt  to  adjournment^ 

Dr.  Bai.dwin  prayed. 

f.  The  Committee  appointed  to  propose  a  plan  of  Concert,  re- 
ported  by  their  chairmaii,  on  which  the  Convention  resolved  itself 


Q  MINUTES. 

into  a  committee  of  the  whole,  Dr.  Gano  in  the  Chair.  Its  articles 
were  twice  read  and  several  points  freely  debated :  after  which 
the  President  resumed  the  chair.  The  committee  reported  progress 
and  requested  leave  to  sit  again,  which  was  granted. 

Dr.  Staughton  prayeUr 

Adjourned  to  3  o'clock,  P.  M. 


Met  agreeably  to  adjournment. 

Dr.  Rogers  prayed. 

The  ministering  brethren  present,  but  not  delegated  to  this  body, 
were  invited  to  take  a  part  in  the  deliberations. 

8.  The  Convention  again  went  into  a  Committee  of  the  whole, 
and  the  discussion  of  the  constitution  was  resumed;  when  it  was  pro^ 
posed  and  agreed  to,  that  the  Committee  rise,  and  report  to  the 
Convention  that  it  is  their  wish  the  plan  already  presented,  should 
be  dispensed  with  ;  that  a  Committee  be  appointed  to  draft  another, 
and  that  Rev'd.  Dr.  Furman,  Rev'd.  Dr.  Baldwin,  Rev'd.  Messrs. 
Gano,  Semple,  and  White,  be  the  Committee.  With  this  request 
the  Convention  complied. 

Prayer  by  Dr.  Gano. 

Adjourned  ui^il  to-morrow  morning  10  o^cloclc. 


Friday,  May  20r 

Met  according  to  adjournment. 

Dr.  Allison  prayed. 

9.  The  Committee  on  the  Constitution  reported  a  plan,  whichi 
was  read,  but  at  so  late  an  hour  as  to  preclude  discussion. 

Rev'd.  L.  Richards  prayetfc 

Adjourned  to  halj  past  3  o'clock. 


MINUTES.  » 

Met  pursuant  to  adjournment. 

Rev.  Mr.  Johnson  prayed. 

10.  The  plan  of  a  Constitution  presented  in  the  forenoon  was 
again  read,  and  being  taken  up  article  by  article,  was  discussed,  and 
adopted  as  far  as  the  sixth  article. 

Prayer  by  Rev.  Mr.  Semple. 

Mjourmd  to  half  past  S  o^clock  to-morrow  morning. 

Saturday,  May  34« 

<Met  agreeably  to  adjournment. 

Rev.  Mr.  Williams  prayed. 

11.  Resumed  the  consideration  of  the  remaining  articles,  which, 
with  some  amendments,  were  adopted — Agreed  to  postpone  the 
second  reading  until  the  afternoon. 

Rev,  Mr.  Montanye  prayed. 

Adjourned  to  half  past  3  o^cloclc. 


Md  pursuant  to  adjournment. 

Rev.  Mr.  Bolles  prayed. 

12.  Proceeded  to  a  second  reading  of  the  Constitution.  Some 
amendments  were  proposed  to  the  12th  article,  which  were  agreed 
to.  On  a  third  reading,  tlie  important  question  was  put  by  the  Pre- 
sident in  the  following  words ;  "  Siiall  this  Constitution  as  now 
"  read  be  adopted,  as  the  basis  of  union,  and  the  rule  of  conduct  to 
"  be  observed  by  this  Convention  and  its  board  of  Commissioners  f" 
The  vote  was  unanimously  passed  in  the  alfirmative,  by  the  rising 
of  the  members. 

13.  Resolved  that  the  President  he  requested  to  furnish  an  ab- 
stract of  the  sermon  delivered  by  him  ou  Wednesday  evening  last, 
for  publication  with  these  minutes. 

14.  Agreed,  that  the  members,  in  their  individual  capacity,  furnisU 
Rev.  Mr.  Rice  with  the  names  of  Persons  whom  they  conceive 
most  eligible  for  members  of  the  board  of  Commissioners,  with  a 
view  to  assist  the  Convention  in  the  choice   about  to   be  mad^. 

Rev.  Mr.  Hough  prayedi 
Mjourmd  to  Monday  10  o'clock  d.  M 
B 


10  MINUTES. 

Monday  May  23. 

Met  pursuant  to  adjournment. 

Rev.  Mr.  Ranaldson  prayed. 

15.  Resolved  that  the  President,  the  Secretary,  and  the  Rev. 
Dr.  Staughton  be  a  Committee,  to  superintend  the  printing  and  dis- 
tribution of  the  Constitution,  the  afore-mentioned  address,  the  ab- 
stract of  the  opening  Sermon,  and  the  minutes.  To  this  Com- 
mittee Dr.  Holcombe  was  afterwards  added. 

16.  Resolved,  that  the  next  meeting  of  this  Convention  shall  be 
held  in  Philadelphia,  on  the  first  Wednesday  in  May,  A.  D.  1817. 

Rev.  Mr.  Brook  prayed. 

Adjourned  to  4  o'clock,  F.  M. 

Met  agreeably  to  adjournment. 

Rev.  Dr.  Baldwin  prayed. 

17.  Resolved,  that  an  arrangement  be  made  by  the  board  of 
Commissioners,  about  to  be  established,  for  the  preaching  of  a  ser- 
mon before  the  Convention  on  the  evening  of  the  first  day  of  their 
next  meeting,  by  the  appointment  of  a  suitable  person  to  perform 
the  Service,  and  of  another  to  supply  his  place  in  case  of  failure; 
and  that  at  least  six  months  previous  notice  shall  be  given  to  the 
persons  concerned — On  which  occasion,  after  the  sermon,  a  collee- 
tiou  shall  be  made  in  aid  of  the  Missionary  fund. 

IS.  Proceeded  to  elect  the  board  of  Commissioners,  agreeably  to 
the  Constitution  3  when  the  following  persons  were  returned  as  du- 
ly chosen. 

Richard  Farman,  Wm.  Rogers,  Henry  Holcombe,  Wm.  Staugh- 
ton, Thomas  Baldwin,  Burgiss  Allison,  James  A.  Ranaldson, 
Daniel  Dodge,  Obadiah  Brown,  John  Williams,  William  White, 
John  P.  Peckworth,  Wm.  B.  Johnson,  Robert  B.  Semple,  Stephen 
Gano,  Lucius  Bolles,  Lewis  Richards,  Matthias  B.  Tallmadge, 
Jeremiah  Vardeman,  H.  G.  Jones,  and  William  Moulder. 

19.  Resolved,  that  it  be,  and  it  is  hereby  recommended  to  the 
several  societies  and  public  bodies  in  connection,  to  maintain  con- 
stant and  affectionate  intercouse  with  the  corresponding  Seeretaiy, 
communicating  all  information  to  him  la  their  power,  which  may 
Qonduce  to  the  interest  of  the  whole. 


MINUTES.  41 

20.  Resolved  (hat  the  Recording  Secretary  be  requested  to  insert 
tirst  in  the  book,  which  shall  contain  the  proceedings  of  the  board, 
the  minutes  of  the  present  Convention,  and  ihe  Constitution. 

21.  Dr.  Rogers,  reported  a  donation  of  fifty  dollars  from  a  lady, 
intended  to  aid  the  designs  of  this  Convention.  He  is  requested 
to  return  her  their  grateful  acknowledgments— Dr.  Staughton  also 
is  requested  to  present  the  thanks  of  this  body  to  Mr.  T.  DobsoU} 
for  the  donation  of  a  blank  book  for  their  records. 

Rev.  Mr.  White  prayed. 

tSdjourned  to  9  o^clock  to-morrow  morning. 


Tuesday,  May  24'. 
Met  agreeably  to  adjournment 

Prayer  by  Rev.  Mr.  Proudfoot. 

22.  The  President  produced  the  sum  of  one  hundred  dollars, 
^V'hieh  had  been  placed  in  his  hands  by  the  Honorable  Judge  Tall- 
madge,  as  a  donation  to  the  Mission  Fund ;  for  which  the  thanks 
of  the  Convention  were  returned  to  the  worthy  Donor. 

23.  The  following  Gentlemen  were  cliosen  Honerary  Members 
of  this  body ; 

Robert  Ralston,  Esq.  Philadelphia. 
Hon.  Jonas  Galucia,  Vermont. 
Captain  Benjamin  Wickes,  Philadelphia. 
John  Bolton,  Esq.  Savannah. 
Rev.  Thomas  B.  Montanye. 

24.  A  letter  was  received  through  Rev.  Dr.  Rogers  from  Mr, 
W.  W.  Woodward,  relative  to  the  publication  of  Dr.  Gill's  exposi- 
tion of  the  Old  Testament  5  the  New  Testament  having  been,  by 
that  Gentleman,  already  printed.  This  Convention  recommend  to 
the  churches  throughout  the  Union  to  give  the  publication  their 
united  and  liberal  support.  Dr.  Rogei's  is  requested  to  answer 
Mr.  Woodward's  communication. 

25.  Mr.  Waldo  of  George  Town,  South  Carolina,  through  the 
medium  of  Rev.  Mr.  Rice,  offered  conditionally,  certain  profits, 
for  the  use  of  this  body,  from  the  publication  of  his  elementary  works 
for  the  use  of  Schools,  which  have  by  good  judges  been  pronounced 
truly  valuable.  The  Convention  entertain  a  lively  sense  of  his 
beuevoleuce,  and  request  Mr.  Rice,  to  write  him  on  the  subjects 


42  MINUTES. 

26.  A  Committee  consistiut;  of  Dr.  Fiirman,  Dr.  Ba]«1win,  ami 
Dr.  Staughton,  wei*e  appointed  to  receive  for  safe-keepiiiJ^  siicli  mo- 
llies as  have  been  transmitted  from  the  several  Societies,  until  placed 
in  the  hands  of  the  treasurer  elect. 

27.  The  bnsiness  of  the  Convention  bcin^  closed,  i's  session  was 
dissolved  by  an  address  from  the  President,  foUnvved  with  prayer 
and  a  benediction. 


MINUTES  OF  THE  MEETING  OF  THE  BAPTIST 
BOARD  FOR  FOREIGN  MISSIONS. 

Tuesday,  May  24th,  1814. 13  o'clock. 

Met  at  the  first  Baptist  Meeting-house  Philadelphia;  the  following 
members  present :  Furman,  Holcombe,  Baldwin,  Rogers,  Allison, 
Gano,  White,  Ranaldson,  Tallmadge,  Richards,  Staiighton,  Wil- 
liams, Bolles,  Johnson,  Moulder. 

1.  Dr.  Baldwin  was  called  to  the  chair,  Mr.  Johnson  was  re- 
quested to  act  as  secretary. 

2.  Proceeded  to  the  election  of  officers,  Avhcn  Dr.  Furman  was 
chosen  President;  but  he  declined  the  office,  on  account  of  his  great 
distance  from  the  seat  of  the  board.  Dr.  Baldwin  was  then  elected 
to  the  Presidency.  Dr.  Holcombe  was  chosen  first,  and  Dr.  Roger? 
second  Vice-President.  Judge  Tallmage  was  elected  Treasurer ; 
but  declinine:,  o"  account  of  the  delicate  state  of  his  health,  Mr, 
John  Cauldwell  of  New-York  was  chosen  to  that  office. 

{lev.  Mr.  Gano  prayed. 

Adjourned  to  3  o^clock,  F.  J/. 

Met  according  to  adjournment. 

Dr.  Rogers  prayed. 

3.  The  board  resumed  the  elecHon  of  officers,  when  Dr.  Staugh- 
ton  Mas  chosen  corresponding  Secretary,  and  the  Rev.  Mr.  White 
recording  Secretary. 

4.  A  committee,  consisting  of  Judge  Tallmadge,  Mr.  Bolles  and 
Mr.  Johnson,  was  appointed  to  prepare  certain  by-laws  for  thegO" 
vernmeut  of  the  board. 

Mjoiirned  to  meet  at  the  Baptist  Meeting-house  in  Sansom-streety 
to-morrow  mornings  10  o^clock. 


MINUTES.  IS 

Wednesday,  May  SSth,  1S14. 

The  Board  met  according  to  adj&iirnment. 

Prayer  by  Dr.  Holcombe. 

Members  present: 
liev.  Dr.  Baldwin,     Pres.      Rev.  Dr.  Furman,  Ranaldson^ 

Rev.  Dr.  Holcombe,    V.P.      Rev.  Dr.  Allison,  Bolles, 

Rev.  Dr.  Rogers,      V.P.      Rev. Messrs.  Johnson,        Peckworth, 
Rev.  Dr.  Sfaiighton,  C.  S.  Williams, 

Rev.  Mr.  White,        R.  S.  Gauo, 

1.  Certain  communieatioms  were  made  <o  the  board  by  the  Rev. 
Mr.  Rice,  containing  remarks  on  fields  for  Missionary  labour  5  toge- 
ther with  a  statement  of  the  monies  he  had  received  and  expended 
on  his  journey  to  the  southern  states  :  on  which  resolved — Thai  the 
Board  possess  a  high  sense  of  the  zeah)iis,  disinterested  and  faith- 
ful services  of  their  beloved  brother,  and  feel  a  lively  emotion 
of  gratitude  to  (he  Lord,  for  the  success  with  which  his  labours 
Jiave  been  crowned.    Ordered  that  the  communication  be  published. 

2.  Resolved,  That  Mr.  Rice  be  uppoinled,  inider  the  patronage 
of  this  board,  as  their  Missionary,  to  continue  his  itinerant  services, 
in  these  United  Slates,  for  a  reasonable  time;  with  a  view  to  excite 
the  public  mind  more  generally,  to  engage  in  Missionary  exertions; 
and  to  assist  in  originating  Societies,  or  Institutions,  ibr  carrying 
the  Missionary  design  into  execution. 

3.  On  motion.  Resolved,  That  the  Rev.  Adoniram  Judson,  now 
in  India,  be  considered  as  a  Missionary,  under  the  care  and  direc- 
tion of  thisBoard;of  which  he  shall  be  informed  without  delay:  That 
provision  be  made  for  the  support  of  him  and  his  family  accordingly: 
and  that  one  thousand  dollars  be  transmitted  to  him  by  the  first 
safe  opportunity  :  That  the  Secretary  of  the  Particular  Baptist  So- 
ciety, for  Missions  in  England,  be  informed  of  this  transaction  ;  and 
that  this  Board  has  assumed  the  pledge  given  by  the  Boston  Mis- 
sion Society,  to  pay  any  l)ills  which  may  be  drawn  on  them,  in  con- 
sequence of  advances  they  may  have  made  in  favour  of  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Judson. 

4.  Resolved,  That  our  brother  Judson  be  requested,  for  the  pre- 
sent, to  pursue  his  pious  labours  in  such  places  as,  in  his  judgment, 
may  appear  most  promising;  and  that  he  communicate  his  views  of 
future  permanent  stations  to  this  board,  as  early  as  he  conveni- 
ently can. 

5.  Resolved,  That  the  proceedings  of  the  late  Convention,  and  of 
this  board  be  communicated  to  the  Baptist  Missionary  Society  in 
England,  and  to  their  IMissionaries  at  Serampore,  assuring  them 
that  it  is  the  desire  of  this  board  to  hold  an  attectionate  intercourse 


14  MINUTES. 

with  them,  in  the  work  of  the  Lord  ;  that  they  will  ever  he  grateful 
for  any  information  which  the  extensive  experience  of  their  brethren 
may  enable  them  to  impart  on  the  subject  of  fields  for  Missionary 
action,  &c.  &c.  and  will  derive  joy  from  the  reflection,  that  though 
in  these  transactions  their  respective  seats  of  council  be  remote 
from  each  other,  their  hearts  and  aims  are  harmDuious. 

6.  Resolved,  That  a  suitable  compensation  be  made  to  our  brother 
Rice  for  his  labours  in  originating  Mission  Societies,  and  that  bre- 
thren Rogers,  Holcombe  and  Staughton  be  a  committee  to  confer 
with  him,  and  decide  on  the  subject. 

7.  Resolved,  That  the  treasurer  of  this  board  be  requested  to  give 
his  bond  to  the  president  and  his  successor  in  oflice,  with  one  suffi- 
cient security  in  the  penal  sum  of  ten  thousand  dollars. 

8.  Resolved,  That  the  Treasurer  <ake  the  advice  of  the  Hon. 
Judge  Tallmadge  and  John  Withington,  Esq.  in  cases  which  re- 
spect putting  out  surplus  money,  that  may  at  any  time  be  in  the 
treasury. 

9.  Resolved,  That  a  committee  be  appointed  to  enquire  into  the 
practicability  of  obtaining  the  incorporation  of  this  board;  and 
that  the  two  vice-presidents  and  the  Hon.  Judge  Moulder  be  that 
committee. 

10.  The  committee  appointed  for  the  purpose,  having  reported 
certain  by-laws  for  the  use  of  the  board,  they  were  taken  into  con- 
sideration, and  the  following  agreed  to. 

I.  This  Board  shall  hold  its  first  stated  meeting  on  the  first  Mon- 
day in  September ;  from  which  period,  its  meetings  of  this  charac<- 
ter  shall  be  held  quarterly. 

11.  All  payments  of  money  out  of  the  treasury,  shall  be  in  pursu- 
ance of  a  resolution  of  this  Board,  and  upon  an  order  signed  by  the 
President,  or,  in  ease  of  his  absence,  by  one  of  the  Vice-Presidents. 

III.  Monies  unappropriated,  and  not  immediately  wanted,  shall 
not  be  suffered  to  lie  dormant  in  the  treasury ;  but  shall  be  invested 
in  some  public  stock,  or  let  out  on  good  security,  so  as  to  be  render- 
ed productive. 

Rev.  Dr.  Baldwin  praye^ 
and  the  Board  adjourned^ 


SUBSTANCE  OF  THE 

SERMON 

DELIVERED  BEFORE  THE  CONVENTION, 

ON   WEDNESDAY   EVENING,   MAT    18,    1814. 


Matthew  xxviii.  20.     Jlnd  lo  I  am  with  you  alway,  even  to 
the  end  of  the  ivorld.    Amen. 


Astonishing  as  it  may  appear  to  men  and  angels,  it 
is  no  less  true — God  deigns  to  visit  man  upon  earth.  He  takes 
up  his  abode  with  him  that  is  of  an  humble  and  contrite  spirit: 
And  the  worshiping  assemblies  of  his  saints  are  assured  by  his 
word,  that  where  but  two  or  three  are  raet  in  his  Name,  He  is 
in  the  midst  of  them. 

Of  this  Truth,  in  all  its  reality  and  sacredness,  even  the  saints 
of  God  themselves  are  often  too  insensible.  When  awakened 
in  the  sanctuary  to  a  just  sense  of  it,  they  are  ready  to  exclaim 
with  Jacob  on  his  way  to  Padan-Aram,  "  How  awful  is  this 
place!   Surely  God  is  in  this  place,  and  1  knew  it  not." 

The  words  before  us  present  this  truth  to  our  View  in  a  new 
and  engaging  form,  and  were  addressed  by  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
to  his  Disciples,  just  before  his  ascension  to  glory  ;  when  he  had 
passed  through  the  dreadful  scenes  of  his  humiliation,  had  tri- 
umphed over  Death,  Hell  and  the  Grave,  and  was  about  to  take 
possession  of  his  Throne  in  the  Heavens.  They,  for  the  con- 
solation and  encouragement  of  his  saints,  give  assuratice  that  his 
gracious  presence  shall  continue  with  his  church ;  and  are  for 
these  purposes  annexed  to  the  Commission  by  which  he  has 
empowered  his  faithful  Ministers  to  preach  the  gospel,  and  ad- 
minister New-Testament  Ordinances  in  every- age  and  nation, 
till  Time  shall  be  no  more. 


dii  SERMON.  • 

These  Words,  strongly  marked  with  a  note  of  attention,  and 
delivered  with  peculiar  Majesty  in  the  form  of  a  Declaration, 
have  also,  all  the  Force  and  Virtue  of  a- Promise  ;  pledging  for 
its  Accomplishment,  the  Power  and  Veracity  of  its  Divine 
Author. 

1  hat  the  Promise  was  not  confined  to  the  Apostles  and  other 
immediate  Disciples  of  our  Lord,  is  evident :  for  these  have 
long  since  finished  their  holy  course  ;  but  the  Piomise  extends 
to  the  End  of  the  World,  and  therefore  must  apply  to  the  regu- 
lar successors  of  those  primitive  Disciples. 

In  the  illustration  of  the  subject,  let  us  consider 

First,  What  is  contained  in  this  gracious  Declaration  ; 

Secondly,  Who  are  the  persons  particularly  interested  in 
it  J  and 

Thirdly,  What  are  its  implications. 

We  shall  then,  apply  it  to  the  circumstances  of  the  present 
Occasion.  " 

First,  The  text  declares,  that  the  Redeemer's  Presence  is 
with  his  People,  and  shall  abide  with  them  continually. 

His  bodily  Presence  cannot  be  intended,  for  he  has  ascended 
to  his  Father  ;  and  the  Heavens  must  receive,  or  retain  him, 
to  the  Time  of  the  Resiitution  of  all  Things.  Nor  does  it  mere- 
ly intend  his  natural  Presence  as  God:  for  in  this  sense  he  is 
present  with  all  his  creatures  ;  who  in  him  live,  move  and  have 
their  being.  The  Wicked,  in  this  sense,  are  near  to  him  ;  while 
in  respect  of  his  Favour,  and  Communion  with  him,  they  are 
alar  off. 

It  must  therefore  mean  his  spiritual  and  gracious  Presence. 
This  includes  union  with  his  People  ;  his  Fitvour  tov/ard  them  ; 
and  the  co-operation  of  his  Providence  and  Grace,  for  accom- 
plishing, through  their  instrumentality,  the  eternal  counsels  of 
his  Mercy  in  the  Salvation  of  men. 

He  is  with  his  Church  as  the  head  is  with  its  members ;  the 
shepherd  with  his  flock  ;  and  the  soul  with  the  body  it  inhabits 
and  animates.  Saints  are  one  with  Christ  :  he  is  in  them,  and 
they  in  him  by  a  vital  union.  They  have  received  from  him 
the  inestimable  gift  of  his  Spirit,  as  a  Spirit  of  Adoption  j  as  a 
Comforter  to  abide  with  them  for  ever,  to  guide  them  into  all 
Truth,  and  to  seal  them  unto  the  Day  of  Redemption.  He  is 
with  them  as  their  Prophet,  Priest  and  King. 

The  Direction  of  our  Lord's  Wisdom,  as  afforded  to  his  Peo- 
ple by  his  Spirit,  Word,  and  Providence  ;  his  supporting,  en- 
livening and  comforting  Grace,  which  infuses  strength  and  cou- 
rage into  their  Souls,  enabling  them  to  believe,  hope,  love,  obey 
and  suffer;  and  his  protecting  Care  over  them;  to  preserve  them 
from  the  destroying  power  of  their  Enemies,  the  World,  Sin 


SERMON.  ly 

and  Hell,  are  all  secured  by  this  Promise.  To  which  may  be 
added,  as  an  important  meaning  of  the  Text,  the  Operations  of 
his  efficient  Power  with  thcrn  in  Grace  and  Providence,  to  give 
Success  to  the  Efforts  of  those  who  ate  engaged  in  his  Service, 
for  the  promotion  of  his  Kingdom  ;  till  the  whole  sacred  scheme 
of  his  salvation  is  brought  to  a  liapp)  and  a  grand  result. 

The  Redeemer's  Presence  is  really  vvitii  his  Saints  at  all 
Times  ;  but  not  always  senaibly  to  their  apprehension.  But 
when  he  lifts  up  the  light  of  his  countenance  upon  them,  they 
realize  it  with  joy.  and  with  adoring  gratitude.  1  he  Promise 
includes  the  Bltssing  considt  red  in  each  of  these  views  ;  but 
has  respect  to  it  in  the  first  more  especially. 

Secondly,  The  persons  particularly  interested  in  this  pro- 
mise. These  are  the  willing  subjects  of  Christ's  Kingdom,  or 
subjects  of  Grace,  and  especially  his  faithful  Ministers.  In  a 
more  remote  sense,  the  promise  will  apply  to  those  who, having 
the  gospel  sent  to  thetn,  or  placed  within  their  reach,  are  dis- 
posed, like  the  noble  Bereans,  to  receive  it  with  candour  and 
reverence. 

!.  Subjects  of  Grace,  or  regenerate  souls:  These  are  true 
members  of  the  Christian  Church.  The  Church,  as  a  Body,  a 
spiritual  Family,  has  its  little  Children,  as  well  as  young  IVIen 
and  Fathers.  Is  it  a  Flock  ?  included  in  its  number  are  the 
weak  of  the  Flock  ;  the  tender  Lambs,  and  the  diseased  ;  who 
are,  equally  with  the  strong,  objects  of  their  Heavenly  Shep- 
herd's gracious  care.  The  evidences  of  Grace  in  the  heart  are 
not  confined  to  those  who  are  rejoicing  in  God,  and  have  assur- 
ances of  Covenant-interest  in  his  Favour,  who  are  clear  in  their 
Views  with  respect  to  the  Time  and  Manner  of  their  Conver- 
sion. Regenerate  souls  may  be  in  doubt  and  perplexity  con- 
cerning this  great  subject,  and  uncertain  with  respect  to  its  cir- 
cumstances. In  the  latter  there  is  great  variety,  in  genuine 
christian  experience. 

Unfeigned  Repentance  for  sin,  Faith  in  the  Redeemer,  Love 
to  the  i'riune  God,  and  subjection  to  his  Government  are  the 
distinguishing  characteristics  of  the  real  Christian.  With  these, 
all  other  gracious  qualities  are  connected  :  Without  them  all 
our  attainments  are  vain ;  however  esteemed,  ornamental,  or 
splendid. 

Repentance  comprehends  Conviction  for  sin,  humble  Confes- 
sion of  it,  Godly  Sorrow  on  account  of  its  Evil,  as  it  affronts 
God  and  injures  his  Creatures,  and  a  hearty  forsaking  of  it ; 
which  last,  includes  Denial  of  our  Evil  Appetites  and  Passions, 
and  Watchfulness  against  Temptation. — Faith  in  the  Lord  Je- 
sus Christ,  not  only  assents  to  the  great  Truths  of  Kevelation 
respecting  his  proper  Deity,  Xncarnauon,  Life,  Death,  Resur- 

c 


18  SEItMON. 

rection,  Ascension  and  Glory,  and  his  Ability  to  save  ;  but  em- 
braces the  Gospel  Invitations  and  Promises,  from  a  firm  Per- 
suasion of  his  Willingness  ;  actually  relying  upon  him,  and  re- 
nouncing every  other  Foundation  of  Hope  and  Confidence. 
Divine  Love  contemplates  the  transcendent  Excellency  of  its 
Object,  with  Admiration  and  Desire  ;  and  is  sweetly  constrain- 
ed to  action  by  the  Love  of  Christ.  In  its  free  and  full  exer- 
cise, it  is  associated  with  filial  Confidence,  Joy,  Gratitude,  and 
holy  Zeal.  But  frequently,  while  incumbered  with  Doubt  and 
Fear,  it  can  advance  no  farther  than  to  the  state  of  Desire.  Its 
intimate  associates  then,  are  Self-reproach  and  Godly-sOrrow. 
—Subjection  to  the  Divine  Government  consists  in  a  sincere, 
deliberate  surrender  of  the  soul  to  God  ;  active  Obedience  to 
his  Commands,  however  self-denying  ;  and  Resignation  to  his 
providential  Dispensations,  however  afflictive. 

In  forming  a  correct  judgment  on  the  gracious  state  of  an  in- 
dividual, regard  must  be  had  to  the  reality,  rather  than  to  the 
degree  of  grace.  Some  are  truly  regenerate,  whose  diffidence, 
and  low  thoughts  of  themselves  would  never  yet  allow  them  to 
claim  the  privileges,  or  take  the  comfort,  which  God  has  annex- 
ed to  their  trife  character:  while  others,  pleased  with  them- 
selves, and  confident  of  their  happy  state,  are,  in  reality,  essen- 
tially defective. — A  settled  choice  and  determination  of  the 
soul  to  be  for  God,  is  better  than  confidence — better  than  rap- 
tures. 

2.  Ministers  interested  in  the  Promise.  These  are  godly 
men,  who  with  Peter  truly  love  their  Lord ;  and  with  Paul  are 
willing  to  spend  and  be  spent,  for  the  honour  of  his  Name,  the 
interests  of  his  Kingdom,  and  the  salvation  of  immortal  souls. 
They  are  called  by  Christ  to  preach  his  Gospel,  and  have  Gifts 
bestowed  on  them  for  their  Work.  Necessity  is  laid  upon 
them,  and  woe  is  unto  them  if  they  preach  not  the  Gospel. 
Such  preach  not  themselves,  but  Christ  Jesus  the  Lcfrd  ;  and 
themselves  the  servants  of  the  Churches,  and  of  immortal  souls, 
for  Jesus'  sake.  Their  serious  intention,  and  honest  endea- 
vour are,  to  preach  the  Word  of  God  unadulterated,  as  far  as  they 
are  acquainted  with  its  .sacred  meaning.  Not  to  please  the  Fan- 
cy, or  delight  the  Ear ;  but  to  reach  the  Conscience,  reform  the 
Life  and  improve  the  Heart ;  and  thus  to  "  Train  Immortals  for 
the  Skies." — To  administer  Divine  Ordinances  aright,  in  the 
manner  God  has  appointed,  and  to  the  subjects  he  approves,  is 
also  their  serious  concern. 

Whatever  Imj)erfections  may  cleave  to  Churches,  Ministers, 
or  Individuals,  of  the  state  and  character  here  described,  they 
niust  be  considered  as  interested  in  their  Saviour's  Promise : 
But  thp  more  they  are  conformed  to  him  in  their  Principles, 


SERMON.  19 

Temper  and  Conduct— the  more  ardent  in  their  Zeal,  generous 
in  their  Intentions,  and  active  in  their  Gospel-labours — the  great- 
er, in  proportion,  is  their  interest  in  the  Promise  ;  especially  as 
it  respects  sensible  enjoyment  of  their  Lord's  presence,  and  final 
success  in  his  Cause. 

Thirdly,  The  Implications  of  the  Text.  They  may  be  clas^n 
ed  under  two  heads: 

1.  Those  which  concern  the  Character,  Duty  and  Dependence 
of  the  Church,  and 

2.  Those,  which  respect  the  Honour,  Purpose  and  Grace  of 
our  Redeemer. 

1.  Of  the  Church  then,  is  implied,  that  it  is  a  body  of  m^n, 
a  holy  society  standing  in  special  relation  to  the  Son  of  God,  as 
his  Kingdom  upon  earth  j  and  consists  of  persons  who,  being 
called  and  fitted  to  his  service,  are  used  by  him  as  honoured  in- 
struments for  maintaining  his  Cause,  and  for  displaying  his  Glo- 
ry among  mankind.  They  are  living  Stones  in  his  spiritual 
Temple,  and  form  a  "  Habitation  for  God  through  the  Spirit.'* 
*'  The  Church  is  the  Pillar  and  Ground  of  the  Truth :"  A  mon- 
umental Pillar,  erected  to  the  honour  of  the  Divine  Majesty, 
,on  which  are  inscribed  the  Law  of  Righteousness,  the  Counsels 
of  unerring  Wisdom,  and  the  Wonders  of  Redeeming  Love. 

2.  Being  advanced  to  this  honourable  station — appointed  to 
this  sacred  use,  saints  have  an  arduous,  interesting  service  to 
perform  in  the  Cause  of  God  :  each  has  an  important  personal 
concern,  in  the  improvement  of  his  talent,  and  the  advancement 
of  his  soul  in  the  divine  life ;  but  as  a  member  of  the  Church  of 
Christ,  and  of  the  Human  Family,  he  has  a  more  extensive  con- 
cern in  whatever  respects  the  increase  of  his  Lord's  Kingdom 
at  large.  To  the  interests  of  this  Kingdom  the  weakest  Chris- 
tian may,  through  Grace,  contribute  ;  to  do  so,  all  are  laid  un- 
der indispensible  obligations;  and  to  excite  our  attention  to- 
wards the  great  object,  our  Lord  has  taught  us  thus  to  pray, 
*'  Thy  Kingdom  come." 

3.  The  Church's  Weakness,  and  dependence  on  the  Re- 
deemer, are  implied.  Never  should  his  saints  forget  those 
words,  "  Without  me  ye  can  do  nothing." — Who  can  master 
his  own  Corruptions,  v/ithstand  the  Frowns  and  Allurements  of 
the  World,  and  maintain  a  successful  conflict  with  infernal  spi- 
rits, those  malignant,  mighty  Powers  of  Darkness,  but  by  the 
Power  of  Omnipotent  Grace? 

But  if  continual  aid  from  Heaven  be  necessary  to  crown  the 
Christian's  efforts  with  success,  while  working  out  his  own  sal- 
vation, how  insufficient  must  all  the  exertions  of  merely  human 
power  be,  in  attempts  to  effect  the  conversion  of  sinners,  to 
HJa]ntain  the  Cause  of  Truth  against  the  oppositions  of  Earth 


20  SERMON. 

and  Hell,  and  to  conduct  aright,  the  various,  vast,  sublime 
concerns  of  God's  Church  !  The  funds  of  Learning,  mental 
Energies,  powers  ot  Eloquence,  human  Prudence,  and  incessant 
Labours  must  all  prove  abortive  here,  without  the  mighty  Pow- 
er and  Graue  of  our  Redeemer. — VV'ell  may  we  exclaim  with 
the  great  Apostle  to  the  Gentiles,  •"'  VVho  is  sufficient  f(jr  these 
thmgs  1" — iiut  with  him,  again,  may  each  faithful  minister  of 
the  gospel  say,  "  I  can  do  all  things  through  Christ  who  strength- 
ens tn  me  !" 

2.  Concerning  Christ  are  implied* 

1.  His  Uivinity.  Did  he  in  enjoining  the  ordinance  of  Bap- 
tism assert  his  divine  honours,  and  claim  thtm  as  being 
equal  with  those  ol  the  F.  ther,  and  ot  the  Holy  Ghost, 
while  they  are  presented  to  our  view  as  the  united  Objects 
of  our  Faith  and  Adoration  ;  he  now  renews  the  claim,  by 
promising  to  his  militant  Church  universally,  his  gracious 
presence.  VVho  but  a  divine — an  infinite  person  can  be  at 
once  in  heaven,  and  iu  all  places  on  earth,  wliere  two  or  three 
are  met  in  his  name:  and  with  millions  of  individuals,  in  every 
age,  who  are  found  employed  in  his  service?  Could  he  have 
any  regard  to  his  veracity  and  sacred  honour  in  thus  promising, 
were  he  not  in  possession  of  infinite  perfection  ?  Verily,  "  he 
is  the  Brightness  of  the  Father's  Glor}',  the  express  Image  of 
his  Person,  and  in  him  dwelleth  the  Fulness  of  the  Godhead 
Boddy."  True,  by  the  assumption  of  our  nature  he  is  really 
Man  ;   but  in  his  divine  nature  he  is  as  really  God. 

2.  His  determined  purpose  of  accomplishing  the  great  Design 
of  his  Mediatorial  Kingdom  ;  by  bringing  to  their  completion, 
the  schemes  of  Providence  and  Grace,  in  the  advancement  of 
the  Divine  Glory.  On  this  grand  object  the  Redeemer's  heart 
had  been  set  from  eternity  ;  when  in  the  counsels  of  peace  on 
the  subject  of  man's  Salvation,  in  the  Covenant  of  Redemption, 
*'  Conceived  at  once,  and  signed  without  debate,  in  perfect  union 
of  the  Eternal  Mind,"  he  offered  himself,  as  a  surety  and  sacri- 
fice, for  the  salvation  of  his  people.  All  the  terrors  attendant 
on  his  state  of  Humiliation,  even  the  bitter  Death  of  the  Cross, 
could  not  deter  him  from  prosecuting  the  great  Design :  and  he 
will  not  leave  his  work  incomplete.  "The  Top  Stone  shall  be 
brought  forth  with  shouting,  crying  Grace,  Grace  unto  it!" 

3.  The  Condescension  and  Grace  of  our  Divine  Lord,  are 
here  implied. 

What  are  men  at  best,  that  the  exalted  Son  of  God  should  be 
thus  mindful  of  ihein  ?  He  knows  also  all  the  errors  and  infir- 
niiries  of  his  people — their  Unbelief,  Ingratitude,  Neglect,  and 
I>isobedience— their  Pollutions  of  Heart  and  of  I^ife  j  and  his 
immaculate  Purity  is  by  these  unspeakably  ofiended ;  yet  such 
is  his  Mercy,  that  he  pities  their  Weakness,  pardons  their  Ini- 


SERMON  2t 

qui  ties,  and  with  Divine  Constancy  continues  his  Favour  to- 
wards them.  Still  the  Lord  of  Angels,  the  King  of  Glory  abides 
with  the  unworthy  Children  of  Men  ;  hearing  their  prayers,  af- 
fording them  the  aids  of  his  Grate,  and  giving  them  consola- 
tion in  the  clay  of  their  Distress!  While  the  Believer,  convict- 
ed of  his  unworthy  conduct  towards  his  Lord,  is  constrained  to 
reproach  himstli,  and  say  to  his  soul,  *'  Is  this  thy  kindness  to 
thy  Friend  ?"  How  must  he  admire  the  Grace,  and  adore  the 
Perfections  of  him,  who  "  Is  a  Friend  that  cleaveth  closer  than 
a  Brother ! 

IMPROVEMENT. 

In  the  Improvement  of  the  subject,  our  attention  will  be  given 
principally  to  the  Lirection,  Encouragement  and  Consolation 
which  the  Promise  affords. 

First,  Let  all  our  Endeavours  to  attain  true  Religion,  and 
promote  its  Interests,  whether  we  act  as  Individuals  or 
Churches,  be  made  in  humble  dependence  on  the  Grace  of 
Christ ;  and  under  the  direction  of  his  word  and  spirit.  Bv  him 
alone,  we  find  access  to  God  and  obtain  heavenly  Peace.  Christ 
is  the  Way,  the  Truth,  and  the  Life:"  no  man  cometh  to  the 
Father,  but  by  him  ;  and  he  is  the  source  of  Divine  Life  to  the 
Soul.  As  the  Branch  cannot  bear  Fruit,  except  it  abide  in  the 
Vine,  no  more  can  we,  except  we  abide  in  him. 

This  shows  the  importance  of  Faith — of  that  Faith  in  the  Son 
of  God,  by  which  the  saints  live,  and  by  which  they  derive  their 
Blessings  from  his  immense  Fulness.  Faith  must  fix  with  re- 
liance on  what  the  Redeemer  has  already  done  for  our  salvation, 
by  his  Incarnation,  Atonement,  Resurrection,  and  Appearance 
before  his  Father's  Throne.  But  it  must  equally  regard  what 
he  has  promised  to  do,  in  the  communication  of  Grace  to  his 
Church,  for  their  Conservation,  Prosperity,  and  ultimate  Glo- 
rification. Is  Christ  with  the  Church;  does  he  walk  in  the 
midst  of  the  Golden  Candlesticks  ;  and  are  all  transactions  and 
services  which  are  performed  in  his  sanctuary  brought  under  the 
particular  notice  of  hia  eye  ;  that  eye  which  penetrates  the  very 
heart,  observing  every  motive  and  every  thought :  how  concern- 
ed should  we  then  be  to  render  him  our  services  in  simplicity 
and  holiness,  with  reverence  and  Godlvfear?  The  Motive,  in 
a  religious  view,  is  of  the  last  importance.  If  Love  to  Christ, 
and  a  Regard  to  his  Glory  do  not  influence  our  conduct,  we  are 
at  best  as  ••'  Sounding  Brass,  and  a  tinkling  Cymbal."  We  may 
labour  much  in  the  Crospel  Ministry,  have  our  minds  zealously 
affected,  and  preach  the  doctrines  of  truth  ;  even  those  which  are 
the  most  evangelicaU  and  yet  do  all  from  wrong  motives.     One 


23  SERMON. 

real  design  may  be  to  excel  in  the  profession  and  character  wc 
have  assumed  without  any  just  regard  to  the  Redeemer's  ho- 
nour, and  without  sincere  Love  to  him.  O I  then,  let  us  have  a 
strict  regard  to  our  motives. 

But  this  is  not  all:  we  must  do  his  Will,  and  render  him  the 
best  of  our  services.  Then  are  we  his  Disciples,  when  we  do 
whatsoever  he  hath  commanded  us.  And  this  is  the  proper 
Evidence  of  our  Love.  *'If  ye  love  me,''  said  the  Saviour, 
*'keep  my  Commandments-" 

Secondly  Here  is  ampk  encouragement  for  the  humble  Chris- 
tian, and  faithful  Minister.  The  blessed  Redeemer  is  with  his 
people ;  and  will  not  forsake  them.  He  is  a  *'  Wall  of  fire  round 
about  them,  and  the  Glory  in  the  midst  of  them."  The  graci- 
ous restraints,  the  sanctifying  influence,  and  precious  consola- 
tions of  his  Spirit,  he  will  afford  to  them  as  individuals.  He 
will  also  visit  his  assembled  People,  bless  the  Provisions  of  his 
House,  own  the  Ordinances  of  his  appointment,  support  and  an- 
imate his  Ministering  Servants,  and  give  success  to  their  Mi- 
nistrations, in  the  conversion  of  sinners,  and  in  the  edification 
of  saints,  even  to  their  perfection  in  the  divine  life.  Opposition 
to  his  Gospel,  like  the  Great  Mountain  before  Zerubbabel,  in 
the  prophetic  Vision  of  Zachariah,  shall  give  way,  and  become 
a  plain.  Though  the  servants  of  God  be  called  to  preach  his 
Gospel  to  those  who  may  be  compared  to  dry  bones,  divine 
influence,  like  breath  from  the  four  Winds  of  the  Heavens  shall 
animate  them.  They  shall  arise  and  live,  an  exceeding  great 
army;  be  enlisted  under  the  banner  of  the  Cross,  and  become 
courageous  in  the  Cause  of  God.  Stubborn  Prejudices,  per- 
verse Passions,  the  influence  of  idolatrous,  infidel  Priests,  Phi- 
losophers, and  Rulers  of  the  Earth;  Ignorance  and  Error; 
Casts  and  Shasters ;  the  Rage  of  Tyrants,  and  the  Power  of 
Devils  shall  all  yield  to  the  omnipotent  Arm  of  him  who  is  the 
Captain  of  our  Salvation.  "Though  the  Enemy  come  in  like  a 
Flood,  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  shaJl  lift  up  a  standard  against 
him."  "  If  God  be  for  us,  who  can  be  against  us  ?'*  Be  cou- 
rageous then,  ye  servants  of  the  living  God!  Enlarge  your  ex- 
pectations, let  your  hopes  arise,  and  exert  all  your  powers  in 
the  honourable,  holy  service  of  your  Redeemer. 

Thirdly,  If  the  gracious  Presence  of  Emmanuel  be  with  his 
saints,  and  shall  not  be  removed  from  them,  what  ineflfable  con- 
solations are  secured  to  the  Church  by  this  blessing  !  Hail  hap- 
py Zion !  highly  favoured  City  of  our  God!  A  never-failing 
source  of  Joy  is  opened  to  thee :  thou  shalt  be  watered  with 
streams  from  the  River  of  Life,  which  flows  from  the  Throne 
of  God  and  of  the  Lamb  ! 


SERMON.  23 

While  we  reflect  on  the  great  things  God  has  already  effected 
Jn  the  earth  by  means  of  the  gospel,  and  behold  the  state  to 
which  the  Church  is  even  now  advanced  under  the  care  and  pro- 
tection of  her  glorious  Head — comprehending  Covenant  Bless- 
ings, Gospel  Privileges,  Gracious  Influence  and  Gracious  Ex- 
periences ;  numerous  Members,  ministerial  Gifts,  eminent  Ta- 
lents, the  improvements  of  Science,  Influence  on  civilized  Na- 
tions, and  the  means  of  intercourse  with  the  rest  of  the  world; 
the  laudable  Zeal  which  operates  in  the  breasts  of  tliousands  for 
the  enlargement  of  Christ's  Kingdom,  the  Schemes  adopted  by 
men  of  an  apostolic  Spirit  for  the  diffusion  of  Gospel-Light,  and 
these  going  into  successful  operation  under  the  smiles  of  a  be- 
nignant Providence  ; — viewing  these,  it  is  natural  to  look  for- 
ward with  pleasing  anticipation  to  those  blessed  days  which 
Prophecy  has  made  known,  when  the  triumphs  of  the  Cross 
shall  extend  to  the  remotest  parts  of  the  habitable  globe ;  the 
knowledge  of  God  cover  the  earth,  as  the  waters  do  the  sea ; 
and  the  Kingdoms  of  the  World  become  the  Kingdoms  of  our 
Lord,  and  of  his  Christ ;  when  Wars  shall  cease,  the  Revolu- 
tions of  Empires  terminate,  Fraud  and  Oppression  be  banished 
from  the  earth,  and  Benevolence,  Harmony  and  Love  prevail. 

Nor  do  our  views  terminate  here  ;  guided  by  the  Light  of 
Revelation,  and  inspired  by  the  Christian's  Hope,  the  Soul 
rushes  forward,  overleaps  the  narrow  bounds  of  Time,  and  con- 
templates the  second  Advent  of  the  Son  of  God  ;  the  transac- 
tions of  Judgment,  the  Dissolution  of  the  World,  and  the  Con- 
summation of  the  Saints  in  Heavenly  Bliss.  Then  shall  Pain, 
Sorrow,  Death  and  Sin  be  known  no  more.  The  Redeemed  of 
the  Lord  shall  rest  from  all  their  toils,  triumph  over  all  their 
Enemies,  be  satisfied  with  the  full  enjoyment  of  Divine  Love, 
see  Christ  as  he  is,  and  ever  be  with  the  Lord  to  behold  his 
Glory. 

In  the  intervening  time,  however,  Conflicts  are  to  be  endured. 
Privations  to  be  suffered,  and  arduous  Services  to  be  performed. 
But  whether  the  saints  be  present  or  absent,  on  the  land  or  the 
sea,  among  friends  or  enemies,  the  gracious  Presence  of  the 
Redeemer  will  be  with  them  ;  and  in  the  enjoyment  of  this 
Blessing,  they  shall  be — must  be  happy. 

These  Considerations  stimulate  to  vigorous  Exertions  in  the 
Cause  of  Christ,  and  apply  with  peculiar  force  to  the  circum- 
stances of  our  present  meeting.  At  the  call  of  Divine  Provi- 
dence we  are  here  assembled,  to  consult  on  measures  the  most 
eligible,  for  sending  the  blessed  Gospel  to  the  Heathen,  and  to 
nations  destitute  of  pure  Gospel  Light.  Electrified,  as  it  were, 
by  the  considerations  which  the  united  Voice  of  Scripture  and 
Providence  have  presented  to  our  minds,  we  have  suddenly  as- 


24  ,  SERMON. 

sembled,  from  almost  every  State  in  the  American  Union,  to 
represent  mukitudes  of  our  Christian  friends,  who  feel  vviih  us; 
to  speak  and  act  for  them  in  this  be.st  of  Causes.  O!  Itt  us  realize 
the  importance  of  the  Work,  and  be  ready  to  act  for  (Jod.  Let 
Faith,  Gratitude  and  Love  unite  their  influence  and  call  forth, 
all  the  energies  of  our  Souls  on  this  momentous  occasion.  Mil- 
lions are  perishing  in  ignorance  and  sin,  h>.ld  in  the  chains  of 
Idolatry  and  gross  Superstition,  under  the  power  of  Satan.  The 
Nations  are  convulsed ;  and  great  events  with  respect  to  the 
Kingdom  of  Christ  appear  to  be  drawing  near.  Exertions  of 
an  extraordinary  character  have  been  made,  and  are  now  mak- 
ing by  Christians  of  vari  jus  denominations,  both  in  Europe  and 
America,  for  the  propagation  of  the  Gospel;  by  Missionary  and 
Bible  Societies,  by  Churches  and  pious  Individuals.  And  to 
our  brethren,  the  Missionaries  at  Serampore,  the  Lord  has  grant- 
ed success,  taking  the  subject  in  all  its  views,  unparalleled,  since 
the  days  of  the  Apostles. —  Happy,  honoured  Cares ,  ar.3  thy 
worthy  associates!  how  are  ye  blessed  of  God! — It  becomes  us 
to  add,  there  are  here  servants  of  God  ready  to  engage  in  the 
arduous,  sacred  Work  ;  the  language  of  whose  souls,  as  indivi- 
duals is,  *'  Here  am  I,  send  me  I"  Many  more,  no  doubt,  will 
catch  their  spirit,  and  will  with  them  be  willing  to  risk  their  all 
in  the  Cause  of  the  blessed  Redeemer. — Let,  therefore,  all  the 
considerations  we  have  urged  from  the  word  of  God  on  this  sub- 
lime subject  be  duly  regarded,  that  they  may  concentrate  their 
whole  force  upon  the  heart,  and  give  an  impulse  to  action,  which 
through  the  Grace  of  the  Redeemer,  no  difficulties  can  retard, 
no  oppositions  withstand.  Let  the  wise  and  good  employ  their 
counsels  ;  the  Minister  of  Christ,  who  is  qualified  for  the  sacred 
service,  offer  himself  for  the  Work  ;  the  man  of  wealth  and  ge- 
nerosity, who  values  the  Glory  of  Emmanuel,  and  the  Salvation 
of  Souls  more  than  gold,  bring  of  his  treasures  in  proportion  as 
God  has  bestowed  on  him ;  yea,  let  all,  even  the  pious  widow, 
bring  the  mite  that  can  be  spared ;  and  let  all  who  fear  and  love 
God,  unite  in  the  Prayer  of  Faith  before  the  Throne  of  Grace  ; 
and  unceasingly  say,  "Thy  Kingdom  come!" — And  O  !  let  it 
never  be  forgotten,  that  the  Son  of  God  hath  said:  '*Lo  !  I  am 
with  you  alway,even  to  the  end  of  the  world."  Amen  and  Amen. 


TO    THE 

BAPTIST  BOARD  OF  FOREIGN  MISSIONS 

FOR    THE   UNITED   STATES. 

Beloved  Fathers  and  Brethren^ 

JlIAVING  been  engaged  for  a  considerable  time  in  missionary 
concerns,  your  condescension,  I  persuade  myself,  will  indulge  me 
the  freedom  of  submitting  a  few  facts  and  observations. 

In  relation  to  fields  for  missionary  labour,  information  is  so  fully 
in  your  possession  already,  that  I  need  say  but  little.  It  being  un- 
derstood that  in  the  recently  renewed  Charter  of  (he  English  East 
India  Company,  provision,  friendly  to  missionary  operations,  has 
been  made,  large  countries,  possessing  many  important  stations 
for  missionary  labourers,  become  at  once  easily  accessible  to  mis- 
sionaries. I  say  easily  accessible,  because,  even  under  the  opera- 
tions of  the  Charter  previously  to  its  late  renewal,  though  difficul- 
ties were  thrown  in  the  way,  still  missionaries  obtained  access  to 
numerous  important  places,  and  laboured  with  great  effect,  withia 
the  limits  of  the  Company's  jurisdiction. 

Besides  the  extensive  regions  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Com- 
pany, others  of  great  importance  and  very  animating  promise  pre- 
sent themselves  to  view,  and  solicit  regard.  The  Island  of  Ceylon, 
containing,  it  is  estimated,  a  million  and  a  half,  or  two  millions  of 
inhabitants,  possesses,  in  addition  to  the  importance  of  its  own  popu- 
lation, advantages  of  no  small  value,  arising  from  its  vicinity,  and 
similarity  of  language,  to  the  neighbouring,  extensive  peninsula; 
and  also  from  its  affinities  of  language,  and  superstitions,  with  those 
of  the  empire  of  Burmah. 

The  Isle  of  France,  or  Mauritius,  offi?rs  to  the  missionary  an- 
other post  of  no  inferior  consideration,  and  which  ought  to  be  im- 
mediately occupied.  One  Chaplain,and  five  Roman  Catholic  priests, 
so  far  as  I  could  learn  when  there,  were  the  only  preachers  on  the 
island.  The  services  of  the  Chaplain  appeared  to  be  intended  ap- 
propriately for  the  civil  government  and  the  soldiery.— The  Cath<>- 
lie  priests  seemed  to  possess  loo  little  zeal,  and  the  remnants  of 
the  Catholic  superstition  too  little  energy,  or  possession  of  the 
minds  of  the  people,  to  oppose  any  formidable  barrier  to  the  pro- 
mulgation, or  success  of  the  gospel  in  that  place.  The  island,  in- 
deed, holding  a  population  of  sixty-five  thousand  souls-,  may  justly 
be  couiider^d  as  destitute,  or  very  nearly  destitute  of  all  reiigi«B^ 

D 


26  COMMUNICATIONS. 

and  presents  a  proper,  and  by  no  means  uninviting  field  of  mission- 
ary labour.  Bourbon,  distant  from  Mauritius  only  a  day's  sail, 
contains  fifty-six  thousand  inhabitants,  equally  destitute  of  religion, 
and  religious  advantages.  The  reliition,  also,  of  the  Isle  of  France 
to  the  large,  populous  and  utterly  heathen  island  of  Madagascar, 
attaches  to  it  slill  greater  weight  in  the  missionary  scale.  Mada- 
gascar has  been  said  to  contain  three  or  four  millions  of  people. 
Mauritius  is  very  probably  the  point  from  m  hich  these  precious, 
but  at  present  benighted  souls,  shall  one  day  receive  the  word  of 
life.  x\nd  another  consideration  which  ought  not  to  be  overlooked 
in  estimating  its  value  as  a  missionary  station,  is,  its  intercourse 
with  most  parts  of  India,  Africa,  Europe,  South  x\meriea,  and 
the  United  States:  offering  facilities  of  communication,  always  de- 
sirable and  important  between  different  missionary  stations,  and  be- 
tween missionaries  and  their  patrons  5  not  to  insist  on  the  salubrity 
of  its  atmosphere,  and,  in  a  word,  the  delightfulness  of  the  island. 

South  America  cannot  be  left  out  of  the  account  in  a  missionary 
estimate.  Some  parts  of  that  highly  interesting  country  are,  in- 
deed, at  present,  in  a  revolutionary  condition,  adverse  to  missiona- 
ry operations.  In  some  of  those  provinces,  however,  which  have 
achieved  their  independence,  possibly  concerns  of  a  civil  and 
political  nature  are  already  sufficiently  consolidated,  and  that 
on  the  basis  of  a  system  sufficiently  tolerant  and  liberal,  to 
furnish  some  encouraging  prospect  to  missionary  efforts.  In 
Brazil,  things  are  in  a  state  of  tranquillity ;  and  the  catholic  reli- 
gion there  has  already  lost  so  much  of  its  fierceness  and  malignity 
as  not  only  to  allow  toleration  to  protestants,  but  liberty  to  build 
chapels  for  the  purpose  of  publicly  celebrating  the  worship  of  God 
in  the  protestant  manner.  This  is  established  by  explicit  and  so- 
lemn treaty.  So  that  there  seems  at  least  some  prospect  that  good 
might  result  from  the  residence  of  a  prudent  and  judicious  evan- 
gelist at  St.  Salvador,  or  at  Rio  Janeiro,  under  the  character  per- 
haps of  chaplain  to  the  protestants  of  the  place,  or  in  the  capacity 
of  schoolmaster.  With  suitable  qualifications,  he  might  probably, 
to  advantage,  get  into  the  business  of  instructing.  And  if  he  should 
be  a  vender  of  books  perhaps  it  might  be  of  service. — It  is  thought 
that  the  bible  might  be  freely  circulated. 

In  relation  to  the  conduct  of  a  mission,  permit  me  to  observe, 
that  it  cannot  be  necessary  for  any  other,  particularly  in  the  re- 
gions of  the  east,  to  follow  the  same  course  with  that  pursued  by 
the  important  mission  at  Serampore.  The  grand  object  of  that  estab- 
lishment has  been,and  still  is,  the  translation  of  the  scriptures.  And 
so  extensive  and  successful  have  been  its  labours  in  this  respect, 
that  it  becomes  unnecessary,  and  would,  indeed,  be  improper,  for 
any  other  mission  to  direct  its  principal  attention  to  the  same  great 
service.  A  mission  now  to  be  established,  should  fix  itself  in  some 
important  place,  make  itself  master  of  the  language  and  literature 
of  the  people,  ultimately  carry  to  very  considerable  correctness 
a  translation  of  the  scriptures  into  that  language,  and  diffiise  the 
effectual  knowledge  of  the  gospel  throughout  the  region  in  which 


COMMUNICATIONS.  27 

sucL  language  is  spoken.  Such  a  mission  might,  indeed,  hecome  o 
parent  establishment,  and  send  out  branches,  not  only  to  diftereni 
places  in  the  same  nation,  but  to  other  nations,  or  to  other  people, 
speaking  a  different  language.  But  each  branch,  occupying  a  sta- 
tion where  a  diftierent  language  from  that  of  the  parent  establish- 
ment is  used,  should  pursue  a  course  perfectly  similar  to  that  pur- 
sued by  the  parent  establishment.  And  should  it  become  necessary 
(o  introduce  the  printing  business,  which  undoubtedly  will  be  the 
ease,  this  may  be  done  at  the  parent  establishment,  and  suffice  for 
all  its  branches. 

Having  submitted  these  brief  remarks,  suffer  me  to  advert,  for  a 
moment,  to  the  course  pursued  by  me  since  the  adjustment  of  the  sa- 
cred, endearing,  and  highly  responsible  relations  which  lately  ex- 
isted between  myself  and  "  The  American  Board  of  Commissioners 
for  foreign  Missions."  Previously  to  this  adjustment,  or  rather 
vote  of  my  former  beloved  and  very  highly  respected  patrons,  that 
they  considered  the  relation  between  myself  and  them  as  having  been 
dissolved f  so  deep  and  serious  were  my  impressions  of  the  sacred 
nature,  mutual  obligation  and  responsibility  of  the  relation,  that  I 
did  not  conceive  that  1  was,  by  any  means,  at  liberty  to  commit  my- 
self to  any  other  patronage  or  employ.  Immediately,  however,  af- 
ter obtaining  information  of  this  vote,  I  hastened,  with  the  advice, 
and  at  the  request  of  my  brethren,  to  make  the  tour  of  the  middle 
and  southern  states.  But  the  success  of  this  tour,  in  bringing  about 
the  formation  of  mission  societies,  it  cannot  be  necessary  to  detail 
at  large.  In  accounting  to  this  Board,  which  I  beg  permission  to 
do,  for  monies  received  by  me  while  performing  this  service,  as  much 
of  this  detail  will  naturally  come  into  view,  as  it  can  he  of  any  im- 
portance to  offer  to  your  attention,  in  the  present  communication. 
As  the  point  of  responsibility,  furnished  by  this  Board,  did  not  ex- 
ist at  the  time  of  receiving  the  monies  just  mentioned,  they  were 
marked  in  my  memorandum  book,  to  be  accounted  for  to  the  various 
mission  societies,  in  whose  vicinities  respectively  they  were  receiv- 
ed.    Thus,  as  marked  to  be  accounted  for,  to 

*'  Tfie  Savannah  Baptist  Society  for  Foreign  Missions,'^ 

I  RECEIVED, 

Nov.  26,1813.  By    the  hand  of  Rev.  Mr.  Villard,  from  a 

few  persons  at  Mount-hope  church,  S.  C.    S6  25 
28,  —    By  a  collection,  during  the  session  of  the  Sa- 
vannah River  Baptist  Association,  at  the 
Union  Church,  Barnwell  District,  S.  C.       54  68| 

Dec.  14, 1813.  By   a   collection  in  St.  Paul's  Church,  Au- 
gusta, Georgia,  -  -  -         61  50 

Carri«dover         -  -  122  43? 


Si  COMMUNICATIONS. 

Brought  over  -         -  122  4-3| 

Dec.  19,1813.  By  a  collection   in   the    Baptist    meeting 
house  in  which  Rev.  Mr.  Johnson  statedly 
preaches,  Savannah,  Georgia     -         -         52  00 
26,  —    By  a  collection  in  the  Baptist  meeting,  in 
which  Rev.Mr.Screven  statedly  preaches, 
Sunbury,  Georgia         -         -         -         -         31  50 
27 f  —    By  a  collection  in  the  Baptist  meeting  house 
in  whichRev.Mr.Sweet  statedly  preaches, 
Bryan  county,  Georgia         -         -         -         36  STg 
Jan.  11, 1814.  By  a  collection    in    the   Baptist  meeting 
house  in  which  Rev.  Mr.  Brantley  stated- 
ly preaches,  Beaufort,  S.  C.  71  73 
Of  Miss  Lydia  Turner         -         -     20  00 
Of  a  few  other  persons  afterwards      .9  35=101  00 

Total  under  the  Savannah  society        S343  31| 

"  The  Beaufort  District  Baptist  Society  for  Foreign  Jlissions.^^ 

Jan.   4,  1814.  By  a  collection  in    the   court-house  in 

Coosawhatchie,  S.  C.         -        -         -  2i  37* 

"  The  general  Committee  of  Churches  united  in  the  Charleston 
Baptist  Association.''^ 

Nov.10,1813.  By  the  hand  of  Mr.  Evans,  the  amount  of 
collections  at  Society-Hill,  S.  C.  during 
the  session  of  the  Charleston  Baptist  As- 
sociation        -         -         -         -         -         -     71  00 

Nov.  16,  —  By  a  collection  in  the  Baptist  meeting 
house  in  which  Rev.  Mr,  Botsford  stated- 
ly preaches,  and  a  few  dollars  sent  after- 
wards, Georgetown,  S.  C.  -         -  30  81^ 

Dec.  9,  _  By  a  collection  in  the  chapel  of  « The 
South  Carolina  College,"  in  which  Rev. 
Dr.  Montgomery,  a  Presbyterian  minister, 
statedly  preaches,  Columbia,  S.  C.         -      76  50 

Jan.l4, 1814.  By  donation  of  "The  Wadnielaw  and  Ed- 
isto  Female  Mite   Society,"  Charleston, 

S.  C -         -  44  00 

16,  —  By  a  collection  in  the  2d  Presbyterian  meet- 
ing-house in  M  hich  Rer.  Dr.  Flinn  stated- 
ly preaches,  Charleston,  S.  C.  -  -  48  25 
24tf  — *  By  a  collection  in  the  first  Presbyterian 
meeting-house  in  which  Rev.  Mr.  Leland 
statedly  preaches,  Charleston,  S.  C.  103  60 

Carried  over        -        -        -         374,  06^ 


10 

183 

.     1 

00 

6 

.25 

:.  d 

GO 

2 

00 

1 

00 

COMMUNICATIONS.  99 

Brou?»ht  over  -        -  S^*  06^; 

Jan.25,  lS14.By  a  collection  in  tlie  Baptist  meeting-house 
in  which  Rev.Dr.Furuian  statedlv  [)reacheS 
Cliarle&ton,  S.  V.         -         -       '-         -         8*  00 
«-    __  Of  Mrs.  Keith,  widow  of  the  late  Rev.  Dr. 

Keith  3  OO 

30  —    By  a  collection  in  the  Baptist  meeting-house 
*in    which    Rev.    Mr.    Roberts    statedly 
preaches,  High  Hilis  of  Santee,  S.  C.  30  56^ 

SI,  —  By  a  collection  in  the  Baptist  meeting-house 
in  which  Rev.Mr.Pope  statedly  preaches, 
Camden,  S.  C.  .         -         .         - 

Feb.  1,    —  Of  Rev.  Mr.  Cook,Mount-Pisgah  church.S.C. 

2,  —  By  a  few   individuals  at  Darlington   court- 

house, S.  C. 

3,  —  Of  Esqr.  Ervin,  Darlington  court-house,  S.  C. 

4,  —  Of  Rev.  Mr.  Dossey.  Society-Hill,  S.  C. 

Of  a  friend  to  missions  at  the  same  place 

Total  under  the  Gen.  Com.  &c.  &c.         g519  061 

"  The  JVbrth  Carolina  Baptist  Society  for  Foreign  Missions.^* 

Feb.  10, 1S14.  Of  Rev.  Mr.  Daniel,  near  Raleigh,  N.  C.       2  00- 
14,    —  By  a  collection  in  the  chapel  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  North-Carolina,  Chapel-Hill,  N.C.     23  82^ 
Sent  afterwards  by  Mrs.  Pucket  of  the  same 

place        ------  100 

By  A.  W.  Clopton  of  the  same  place,  being 
the  payment  in  advance  of  his  first  annual 
subscription  to  the  N.  C.  B.  S.  for  F.  Mis.  5  00 
46,  —  By  a  collection  in  the  State-house  in  which 
Rev.Mr.M^Pheters.  a  Presbyterian  minis- 
ter, statedly  preaches,  Raleigh,  N.  C.  21  00 
Sent  afterwards  by  two  or  three  persons  of 

the  same  place  -  -  -         2  dO 

17,  ~    By  a  few  persons  at  a  meeting  at  the  Cross- 
roads, near  Raleigh  N.  C.        -        -  3  95 

Total  under  the  North-Carolina  Society     59  27!J 

"  The  Richmond  Baptist  Mission  Society  for  propagating  the 
Gospel  in  India  and  other  Heathen  Countries.^' 

Feb.20, 1814.  By    a   collection   in  the    court-house   in 
which  Rev.  Mr.  Rice  a  Presbyterian  mi- 
nister, statedly  preaches,  Petersburg,  Va.    40  38* 
Of  Rev.  Mr.  Rice  himself        -         -         -         2  00 
Sent  afterwards  by  a  lady  of  the  same  place      2  00 

»  Total  under  the  Richmond  Society  44  3S| 


30  COMMUNICATIONS. 

**  The  Fredericksburg  Branch  Society  for  Foreign  J^Iissions." 

Mar.  6, 1814.  By   a  collection   in    the   Baptist  meeting- 
house, Fredericksburg,  Va.         -         -         71  61 
Afterwards  of  Dr.  Hall  of  the  same  place  2  00 

Of  a  son  of  Dr.  Hall         -        -         -        -        1  00 
Of  Mr.  Hedgeman,  by  the  hand  of  Mr.  Newby  1  oo 


Total  under  the  Fredericksburg  Society    g  7s  51 
**  The  Washington  Baptist  Society  for  Foreign  Missions,^^ 

March  28,1814.  By  a  collection    in  the  Baptist  meeting- 
house in  which  Rev.  Mr.  Brown  stated- 
ly preaches,  Washington,  Dist.  of  Cola.     28  16 
Also  in  the  Baptist  meeting-house  at  the 
Navy  Yard,  Washington,  Dist.  of  Cola.     12  57| 

April  4,  —  By  a  collection  in  the  Presbyterian  meet- 
ing-house in  which  Rev.  Mr.  Brecken- 
ridge  statedly  preaches,  Washington, 
District  of  Columbia  -         -         -      25  00 

10,  — .  By  a  collection  in  the  Presbyterian  meet- 
ing-house in  which  Rev.Dr.  Muir  stated- 
ly preaches,  Alexandria,  Dist.  of  Cola.  32  13^ 
-Also  in  the  Baptist  meeting-house  in  which 
Rev.  Mr.  Moore  statedly  preaches,  Al* 
exandria,  Dist.  of  Cola.        -        -  19  33 


Total  under  the  Washington  Society  g  117  19|' 

*•  Tfie  Baltimore  Baptist  Missionary  Society.^^ 

May  4, 1814.  By  a  collection  in  the  Baptist  meeting- 
house in  which  Rev.  Mr.  Richards  stat- 
edly preaches,  Baltimore,  Maryland  45  25 
Also  in  the  Baptist  meeting-house  in  which 
Rev.  Mr.  Healey  statedly  preaches,  Bal- 
timore, Md.         5  37* 

Total  under  the  Baltimore  Society        g  50  63^ 

*'  'The  Delaware  Branch  Society  for  Foreign  Missio7isJ'* 

May  9,  1814.  By  a  collection  in  the  Baptist  meeting- 
house in  which  Rev.  Mr.  Dodge  statedly 
preaches,  Wilmington,  Delaware  8  52 


Total  under  ail  these  Societies       gl239  26\ 


COMMUNICATIONS.  31 

My  expenses  while  thtis  prosecuting  the  missionary  de- 
sign, for    travelling,    clothing,   letters,  paper,    &c.   &e. 

have  been -         -      332  10' 

For  the  purpose  of  defraying  my  expenses,  particularly, 
I  have  received 

Oct.  16, 1S13.  By  the  hand  of  Rev.  Mr.  Dodge,  Wilming- 
ton, Delaware         -----      i  §2* 
18,    —    From  Rev.  Dr.  Staughton,  by  the  hand  of 
Rev.  Mr.  Brown,  in  .Washington,  on  my 
way  to  the  southward  -         -         -         90  00 

Nov.  23,    —   Of  Rev.  Mr.  Nichols,  Coosawhatchie,  S.  C.      2  00 
Dec.  27,    —    Of  two  or  three  blacks,  Sunbury,  Georgia  *         25 
Aprill4<,1814i.  By  a   collection  in  the    Baptist  meeting- 
house in  which  Rev.  Mr.  Brown  statedly 
preaches,  Washington,  Dist.  Cola.  16  00 

Total  appropriated  by  the  donors  for  defraying  my  expenses   69  89^ 

Leaving  a  balance  of    -       -    J8262  21;^ 
Which  deducted  from  the  amount  of  the  abovemention- 
ed  sums,  will  leave  in  my  hands  a  balance  of    -      -       -     977  00*- 

But  having  received  monies  not  specifically  designated 
by  the  donors  as  intended  for  my  expenses  or  for  the  mis- 
sion, viz : 
Dee.29,1813.  Of   Rev.  Mr.  Williams  near  Savannah, 

Georgia         -.-.-- 
By  the  hand  of  the  same  from  Miss  Hills 

30,  —    Of  a  lady.  Savannah,  Georgia 
Jan.30, 1814.  Of  Mrs.  M'Nair,  High  Hills  of  Santee,  S.C. 

31,  —  Of  Mrs.  Walker,  near  Mount-Pisgah  ch.  S.C. 
Feb.  13,    —  Of  Mr.  Disraukes,  near  Pitsborough,  N.  C. 

16,    —  Of  a  lady,  by  the  hand  of  Rev.  Mr.  Daniel, 
near  Raleigh,  N.  C. 
March  29, —  Of  a  lady  in  Washington,  Dist.  of  Cola. 
April  12, —  Of  two   blacks.    Navy    Yard,  Washington, 
Dist.  of  Cola.         .        -  .         - 

15, —  Of  a  lady,  AVashington,  Dist.  of  Cola. 
19, —  Of  a  lady,  Washington,  Dist.  of  Cola. 

This       -        -         -      g35  oO 
added  to  the  amount  before  mentioned  makes         -         -     1012  05A 
which  sum,  I  beg  leave  to  put  into  the  hands  of  this  Board.    By  do- 

*  I  am  not  satisfied  with  simply  mentioning  this  donation.  Thest 
blacks  were  professors,  of  religion.  They  had  voluntarily  rowed 
me  several  miles  in  a  boat,  when,  instead  of  receiving  compensation 
which  I  offered  them  for  their  services,  they,  understanding  some- 
thing of  the  nature  of  my  business,  gave  me  their  willing  contribu- 
tion.— I  thought  of  the  widow^s  two  mites,  and  the  Saviour^s  apprir- 
btttion. 


10 

00 

5 

00 

8 

00 

5 

00 

1 

00 

1 

00 

1 

00 

1 

00 

50 

1 

5(t 

1 

00 

32  COMMUNICATIONS. 

ing  this,  1  conceive  myself  released  from  all  farther  responsihillty 
to  the  before  mentioned  societies  in  retation  to  tliis  money,  because, 
being  contribnted  to  aid  the  very  design,  for  whose  advanceineot 
this  Board  has  been  instituted,  it  was  minuted  to  the  societies  in 
whose  vicinities  respectively  it  was  collected,  merely  because  the 
present  point  of  responsibiiity  did  not  then  exist. 

Besides  availing  myself  of  the  medium  of  your  minutes,  to  ac- 
eount  thus  to  the  respected  missionary  societies  and  to  the  gener- 
ous individuals  who  have  entrusted  me  with  their  donations  in  aid 
of  missions,  siifter  me  to  beg  your  indulgence,  to  express,  pub  iciy 
through  the  same  medium,  my  very  grateful  thanks  for  many  per- 
gonal favors. 

Having  rem  lined  a  little  more  than  a  week  at  Society  Hill,  S.  C. 
I  had  the  piC^sure  of  receiving, 

Nov.lO,  »St3.  Of    Esqr,   Hduford.   Society  Hill,  S.  C.  10  00 

it,    —  By  tlie  h;ind  of  Mr.  Wilson,  from  a  number 

of  friends  of  the  Same  pliice  -         -         67  25 

In  other  places,  viz  : 

NoY.16, 181.3.  Of  Mr.  Waldo,  Georgetown,  S.  C.  2  00 

23,    —  Of  Mr.  Wm.  Inglesby,  Chaneston   S.  C.  5  00 

Jan.  4.  1814.  Of  Mr.  Jenkins,  Coos  twhatchie  S.  C.  10  00 

10,     —  Of  a  Lady.  Beaufort.  S.  C.         -         -         -        5  00 

25,    —  Of  Deacon  x\d,ms.  Ch.rleston,  S.  C.       -         -    2  00 

Feb.  3,     —  Of  Esqr.  Ervin,  Darlington  court-house,  S.  C.    5  00 

16,    —  Of  Rev.  Mr.  Duuiei,  near  Raleigh,  N.  C.  1  00 

gior  25 

Jan.  1814 — Of  a  L :<-y,  Charleston   S.  C.  a  pair  of  gloves. 
April  14, —  OfCapt.  Bestor,  Washington,  Dist.  of  Cola. 

a  pair  of  shoes. 
May  4,  —  Of  a  Lady,  Baltimore,  Md.  a  pair  of  gloves. 

Having  spent  a  Sabbath  with  Rev.  Mr.  Bolles  of  Salem,  Mass. 

and  preached  in  his  place,  1  received, 

Sept.26,lS14.  By  the  hand  of  Rev.  Mr.  Bolles  -  20  00 

Nov.  21,  —  Having  supplied  the  Baptist  church  in 
Charleston.  S.  C.  one  Sabbath,  in  the  ab- 
sence of  Rev.  Dr.  Furman, — by  the  hand 
of  Deacon  Adams         -         -         -         -        25  00 

Dec.  29,  —  Having  preached  an  evening  lecture  in  tlie 
meeting-house  of  the  tst  coloured  Baptist 
church,  vSavaiinah,    Georgia — from  the 
pastor  of  that  church,   by   the    hand    of 
Rev.  Mr.  Johnson  -         -         -         -     10  00 

Jaii.30, 1814.  Having  spiMit  part  of  a  Sabbath  with  Rev. 

Mr.  Unberls  High  Hilis  of  S  nlee  S.  C.       10  00 

March  3,  —  After  preaching  an  evening  ecture  in  the  bap- 
tist meeting-house,  Fredeiicksburgh,  Va.      5  37^ 


COMMUNICAtlONS.  ts 

^ov.  6,  1813.  For  a  session  sermon,  at  the  openini^  of  a 
court,  Mailborough,  S.  C.  by  the  hand  of 
Esqr,  Hanford        -         -         -         -  Sl3  00 

Having,  by  the  injury  of  a  chaise,  sustained  a  loss  of        S65  00 
my  very  worthy  friend,  Rev.  Mr.  Leland,  Charleston,  S.  C. 
was  pleased  to  set  forward  the  following  paper,  viz; 

*'  We  the  subscribers,  impressed  with  a  due  sense  of  the  disinte* 
rested  benevolence  which  has  induced  the  Rev  Mr,  Rice  lo  devote 
his  time  and  lalents  to  the  great  woik  of  evangelizmg  the  heathen 
world,  do  cheerfully  bestow  the  sums  affixed  to  our  names  partly  to 
make  up  a  severe  pecuniary  loss  he  has  lately  sustained,  by  the  run- 
ning away  of  a  horse,  and  the  breaking  of  a  chaise,  and  partly  to  as- 
sist him  in  his  excellent  undertaking."— In  the  result  he  put  into  my 
hands  the  liberal  sum  of        -         -         -         -         -  S  i66  00 

Having  had  the  hoiiour  to  preach  before  the  Congress  of  theUnited 
States,  Hon.  Judge  Brigham,  one  of  the  Hon.  members  of  Congress, 
was  pleased  to  set  forward  the  following  paper,  viz: 

"  We  the  subscribers,  members  of  Congress,  agree  to  contribute 
and  pay,  for  the  use  and  benefit  of  the  Rev.  Mr.  Rice,  who  preached 
in  Congress  Hall  on  the  tenth  instant,  and  who  has  recently  returned 
from  missionary  services  in  India,  the  sums  affixed  to  our  names. — ■ 
April  11, 1814." — The  Hon  Judge  himself  collected  and  put  inio 
my  hands S  30  00 

Oiher  Hon.  members  afterwards  -        -        -  27  00 

In  addition  to  the  above,  I  cannot  but  feel  myself  to  be  undei? 
grateful  obligations,  nor  refrain  fom  expressing  my  unfeigned 
thankfulness,  to  many  individuals,  for  aid  in  travelling  over  portions 
of  cou'i"'y  ^n  which  I  couid  not  avail  myself  of  conveyance  by  stage  ^ 
for  eniertainmeni  at  several  public  housts  free  of  exponsej  and  for 
number''  ss  Tsiances  of  hospitality,  attention,  courtesy,  poliLeness, 
and  kino!  ess.  Indeed,  the  general  countenance  shewn  to  the  im- 
poriani  object  of  my  tour,  by  ihe  people  in  ull  places  which  I  have 
visited,  has  'nspireo  impressions  and  sentiments  of  a  natuie  too 
grateful  to  be  concealed,  but  which  the  power  of  language  is  too 
feeble  to  express! 

WiJi  very  great  respect,  and  most  affectionae  consideration,  per- 
mit me,  beloved  Fathers  and  Brethren,  to  subsciibe  myself 

Your  humble  servant,  for  the  Gospel's  sake, 

LUTHER  RICE 

Philadelphia,  S^th  May.  i8i4. 

E 


34  REPORT. 

The  Committee  appointed  to  enquire  into  the  number,  state,  and 
prospects  of  the  Baptist  Foreign  Mission  Societies,  recently  formed 
in  the  United  States,  begs  leave  to  report,  That,  from  the  atten- 
tion bestowed  upon  this  subject,  your  committee  has  not  been  able 
to  obtain  such  exact  information  as  could  be  desired;  but  has  had  the 
satisfaction  to  learn,  that  not  fewer  than  seventeen  societies  of  this 
description  are  already  in  operation.  Of  these  societies,  such  in- 
formation as  your  committee  has  obtained,  will  be  cheerfully  sub- 
mitted, beginning  with  the  northern  section  of  our  country, 

«  The  Haverhill  Society-^ 
has  transmitted  very  little  information;  but  will  cordially  co-operate 
in  the  general  design  now  going  forward,  and  may  furnish  perhaps 
a  hundred  dollars  annually  to  the  general  fund         -  glOO  00 

"  The  Salem  Bible-translation  and  Foreign  J>lission  Society" 
appears  to  have  collected  about  S  500,  and  will  probably  be  able  to 
furnish  at  least  S^OO  annually  to  the  general  fund  S  200  09 

"  The  Baptist  Society  for  propagating  the  Gospel  in  India  and 

other  foreign  parts" 

has  exerted  a  very  laudable  zeal  and  activity,  collected  already  more 

than  8  i250,  and  may  undoubtedly  furnish  to  the  general  fund  at 

least  four  or  five  hundred  dollars  annually         -        -  450  00 

"  The  Baptist  Missionary  Society  in  Rhode  Island" 
has  collected  about  %  200,  and,  with  what  may  be  expected  from  a 
Female  Mite  Society  of  the  same  place,  will  probably  furnish  at  least 
two  hundred  dollars  annually  to  the  general  fund        -      g  200  00 

"  The  *N*ew-York  Baptist  Society  for  Foreign  Missions" 
we  doubt  not  will  aid  the  great  object  to  a  degree  worthy  the  liber- 
ality of  its  wealthy  subscribers.    We  persuade  ourselves  that  at  least 
four  hundred  dollars,  we  hope  much   more,  may  be  expected  from 
that  society  annually  to  the  general  fund       -        -         -     S  400  00 

"  The  JVew-Fork  Baptist  Female  Society  for  promoting  Foreign 

Missions" 
exhibits  an  example  of  such  an  adnairable  and  praise-worthy  charac- 
ter, as  cannot  fail  of  being  imitated  by  the  charitable  Ladies  of  other 
cities.  Though  organized  so  recently  as  April  last,  the  laudable  ex- 
ertions of  this  society  have  collected  not  less  than  S  '^0,  and  will,  it 
is  believed,  be  able  to  furnish  perhaps  Si 50  annually,  to  the  general 
fund 18  150  00 

"  Tlie  Baptist  Foreign  Missionary  Society  of  JVew-Jersey" 
has  been  organized  very  recently.     The  President  of  this  society 
says  to  your  committee,  that  "it  is  believed  that  the  New-Jersey  So- 
ciety will  annually  furnish  glOO."     We   are  persuaded,  however} 
thtvi  he  has  fixed  on  too  low  an  estimate;  nor  can  we  deny  ourselves 


REPORT.  3S 

the  pleasure  of  anticipating  a  much  larger  amount  from  so  respect- 
able a  source glOO  00 

«  The  Philadelphia  Baiitist  Society  for  Foreign  Missions'^ 
will  doubtless  answer  the  high  expectations  which  the  wealth  and 
known  liberality  of  this  portion  of  our  country  cannot  fail  to  create. 
TheSecretary  of  this  society  states,  that  "Subscrit)ers'  names  hand- 
ed in  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Phila.  F..M.  Society,  are  390 — all  of 
whom  are  S3  annually,  except  3  of  S5,  3  of  !84,  and  3  of  g3  annual- 
ly." This  society  has  collected  already  nearly  %  500,  and  will  fur- 
nish, we  confidently  expect,  annually  to  the  general  fund,  more 
than giooo  GO 

"  The  Delaware  Branch  Society  for  Foreign  Missions" 
though  very  recently  formed  has  more  than  forty  annual  subscribers, 
has  collected  about  40  dollars,    and  will   be  able  to  furnish,  it  is 
believed,  at  least,    one  hundred  dollars  annually   to  the  general 
fund g  100  GO 

«  The  Baltimore  Baptist  Missionary  Society** 
has  given  by  one  of  the  delegates  of  that  society  the  following  state- 
ment, viz:  "  The  mode  of  collecting  subscriptions  and  donations  in 
Baltimore,  is  by  respectable  citizens  in  each  ward,  who  are  author- 
ized to  go  round  on  that  errandj  besides  which,  collections  are  made 
at  the  monthly  prayer  meetings.  The  citizens  abovementioned  not 
yet  having  gone  round,  we  cannot  say  what  will  probably  be  the  re- 
sult in  that  respect,  though  we  feel  confident,  from  the  known  cha- 
racter of  Baltimore,  that  it  will  not  be  unimportant.  Our  annual 
subscriptions  are  two  dollars  each.  The  money  we  have  on  hand 
is  upwards  of  S  100,  but  it  is  not  forwarded,  as  we  were  ignorant  of 
the  proper  receptacle." — We  persuade  ourselves  this  society  will 
be  able  to  furnish  annually  to  the  general  fund,  certainly  not  less 
than 18150  00 

"  The  Washington  Baptist  Society  for  Foreign  Missions^^ 
has  collected  g  70,  has  transmitted  S70  to  the  general  fund,  and  will 
probably  furnish  to  this  fund  annually,  more  than         -     SlOO  00 

**  The  Richmond  Baptist  Mission  Society  for  propagating  the 

Gospel  in  India  and  other  Heathen  Countries''^ 

has  collected  more  than  g200,  has  transmitted  g  200  to  the  general 

fund,  and  will  be  able  to  furnish  to  this  fund  annually  two  or  three 

hundred,  perhaps  a  much  larger  sum        -        -         -       g  250  00 

"  The  JSTorth-Carolina  Baptist  Society  for  Foreign  Missions^^ 
has  collected  g260,  has  transmitted  to  the  general  fund  glOO,  and, 
it  is  hoped,  may  be  able  to  furnish  to  this  fund  annually  not  less 
than .  g  500  00 


36  REPORT. 

•*  Tlie  General  Committee  of  Churches  uniteil  in  the  Charleston 
Baptist  Jlssociatioii'^ 
has  entered  into  the  m  ssionary  design  with  laudable  zeal  and  ac- 
tivi'y.  The  following  in  eves  ing  statement  has  been  given,  viz: 
*♦  The  Bapist  churches  included  in  the  Chaileston  Associat  on,  S.  C. 
have  couimitted  the  missionary  business  to  the  hands  of  their  general 
commit'ee,  recommending  the  formation  of  auxiliary  societies,  to 
be  formed  as  convenience  may  direct,  within  the  bounds  of  their 
vnion.  Several  such  societies  it  is  known  are  formed,  and  it  is  un- 
derstood that  others  are  forming,  or  will  be  formed  in  the  course  of 
the  present  year;  but  a  regular  accoun'  either  of  their  number,  or 
the  amount  of  their  contributions  ccinno  beexpecced  before  Novem- 
btr,  when  the  Association  and  Committee  are  to  meet  for  the  trans- 
action of  business. 

The  Cha!lt;ston  Society,  perhaps,  consists  of  about  one  hundred 
members  several  have  subscribed  an  annual  contribution  of  five 
dollars.  At  the  H  g'-  Hills  of  Santee,  head  of  Black  River,  and  the 
"Wel^^h  Neck,  it  is  known  societies  are  fos'med:  at  the  Congaree, 
Amelia  1  ownship,  and  Goose  Creek,  it  is  understood  they  are  about 
to  be  iormed." 

From  t'lt  known  I'berality  of  this  important  portion  of  our  country, 
vc  cannot  suffer  ourselves  to  calculate  on  less  than  from  three  to  five 
hundred  dollars  an'mally  to  the  general  tund         -  8400  00 

besides  what  may  be  expected  from  *•  The  Wadmalaw  and  Edisto 
Female  Mite  Society,"  perhaps  annually        ^        -  g  lOO  00 

*«  Tlie  Beaufort  District  Baptist  Society  for  Foreign  Missions^^ 
has  yet  collected  but  httle;  but  has  an  annual  subscription  of  g260 
by  fifty-one  subscribers— one  of  gSO— one  of  20 — one  of  15— several 
of  10 — and  we  may  reasonably  expect  annually  to  the  general  fund, 
from  this  wealthy  and  liberal  quarter,  at  least         -        -    gSOO  QO 

*'  The  Savannah  Baptist  Society  for  Foreign  J^Iissions^^ 
has  collected  g456,  has  transmitted  to  the  general  fund  445,  and 
will  be  able,  it  is  believed,  through  the  distinguished  zeal,  activity 
and   liberality  of  its   members,  to  furnish  to   this  fund  annually 

about      - giooo  00 

The  delegate  from  this  society.  Rev.  Mr.  Johnson,  has  also  trans- 
mitted to  the  general  fund g9  63f 

which  sum  was  collected  by  him  in  Orangeburgh,  on  his  way  to 
Philadelphia,  to  attend  the  Convention. 

"  The  ICentiicky  Baptist  Society  for  propagating  the  GospeV' 
has  collected  moie  than  g  lOO  alieady,  and  may  be  able  to  iurnish 
to  the  general  fund,   perhaps  two  or  three  hundred  dollars  annu- 
ally          g  350  00 

>Jor  can  we  refrain  from  remarking,  that  the  zeal  of  our  brethren  in 
the  west,  and  the  prospects  in  that  quarter,  give  us  great  pleasure* 
and  exciie  the  happiest  anticipations  of  the  extent  to  which  the  mis- 
sionary spirit  may  yet  diffuse  itself  thvougti  our  country. 


REPORT.  sy 

Besides  the  societies  completely  organized  and  in  operation,  some- 
thini;  has  been  done  towards  the  formaiion  of  one  in  Frtdericksburg, 
Virginia;  .  nd  we  think  it  reasonable  to  expect  frc-m  that  society, 
which  we  piesun»e  will  go  into  tperation  soon,  annually  to  the  gen- 
eral fund  noi  less  than glOO  00 

Others  we  doub'  not  will  yet  be  formed,  uniting  with  those  already 
in  existence,  in  effor  s  to  imipan  the  benign  influence  of  the  Gospel 
to  benighted  nations. 

Fiom  ihe  foiegoing  imperfect  sketch,  it  appears  that  the  various 
mission  sccieties  mentioned,  have  collected  already  about  84000  00 
will  probably  be  able  to  furnish  annually  to  the  general  fund, 

not  less  than 5850  00 

and  have  transmitted  to  the  general  fund  -         -  824  62| 

Accounted  for  by  Rev.  Luther  Rice,  monies  received  by 
him  for  missionary  purposes  -         -         -         -         1274  62| 

From  which  deducting  travelling  expenses  &c.  of  Mr.  Rice  262  2ij 

will  leave :        -        S1836  67| 

But  the  committee  appointed  to  consult  relative  to  the 
compensation  sui  able  to  be  allowed  Mr.  Rice  for  his  ser- 
\ices,  have  crncluded  to  allow  him  the  same  as  that  allowed 
by  "  The  American  Board  of  (  ommissioners  for  Foreign 
>Iissions,*'  for  similar  services,  viz  eight  dollars  a  week. 
For  35  weeks,  that  is,  from  the  last  of  Sept.  iSiS  to  the 
last  of  May,  i8l4 280  00 


which  being  deducted  from  the  above,  will  leave  in  the 
general  fund  alteady        -        -        -        -        -        -      S1556  67* 


ADDRESS. 


The  Gp.itERAL  CoNVEN-rroN  of  the  Baptist  delegates  for  Mission- 
ary purposes,  assembled  in  the  meeting-house  of  the  first  Baptist 
church  in  Philadelphia,  on  Wednesday  the  ±8th  May,  1814;  to 
their  constituents,  the  churches  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Ministers  of 
the  Gospel,  and  the  friends  of  religion  in  general,  present  their 
christian  love  and  cordial  wislies. 


Beloved  Brethren  and  Friends, 

In  what  manner  and  to  what  extent  it  has  pleased  the  bles- 
sed God,  of  late,  to  direct  the  attention  of  many  among  us,  to  the 
interests  of  the  Redeemer's  Kingdom,  some  of  you  are  already 
sensible,  and  others  will  learn  from  the  preceding  pages.  Un- 
der the  smiles  of  a  propitious  Providence,  a  Convention  has  as- 
sembled in  Philadelphia,  consisting  of  delegates  from  parts  of 
our  union,  various  and  remote,  to  devise  a  plan,  and  enter  into 
measures,  for  combining  the  efforts  of  our  whole  denomination, 
in  behalf  of  the  millions  upon  whom  the  light  of  evangelic  truth 
has  never  shone.  The  result  of  their  serious  and  affectionate 
consultations,  you  have  an  opportunity  of  perusing. 

Unpromising  and  disastrous  as  the  present  state  of  our  world 
may  appear,  the  period  is  assuredly  approaching,  and  we  trust 
is  not  distant,  when  the  scene  shall  be  reversed :  "  The  crooked 
shall  be  made  straight,  and  the  rough  places  plain;  and  the  glo- 
ry of  the  Lord  shall  be  revealed,  and  all  flesh  shall  see  it  toge- 
ther, for  the  mouth  of  the  Lord  hath  spoken  it."  "  The  meek 
shall  inherit  the  earth,  and  shall  delight  themselves  in  the  abund- 
ance of  peace."  "The  glory  of  the  Lord"  shall  arise  upon  Zion. 
**  Mountains  and  hills  shall  break  forth  into  singing,  and  all  the 
trees  of  the  field  shall  clap  their  hands."  Our  God  will  "  create 
Jerusalem  a  rejoicing,  and  his  people  a  joy."  "  The  seed  shall 
be  prosperous,  tbe  vine  shall  give  her  fruit,  the  ground  shall 
give  her  increase,  and  the  heavens  shall  give  their  dew." 

For  this  glorious  period  the  church  has  long  and  anxiously 
been  waiting.  For  this,  thousands  of  the  petitions  of  the  saints 
have  already  been  presented  by  the  great  Mediator  before  the 
eternal  throne,  and  thousands  more  are  continually  ascending. 
It  is  a  day  of  glory  embraced  in  the  tenor  of  the  cove  of 


ADDRESS.  39 

promise,  and  which,  as  the  reward  of  his  conflict  and  sufferings, 
the  Redeemer  is  expecting:  a  result,  to  which  the  revolutions  of 
empire  and  the  silent  progress  of  time  perpetually  verge. 

The  agency  by  which  whole  nations  shall  be  regenerated  here- 
after, is  the  same  which  takes  one  of  a  city  and  two  of  a  family 
and  brings  them  to  Zion  now.  The  universal,  moral  change, 
like  the  erection  of  the  second  temple,  shall  be  effected,  "not 
by  might  nor  by  power,"  but  by  the  spirit  of  the  Lord.  The 
promise  is  recorded,  "  1  will  pour  water  upon  him  that  is  thirsty, 
and  floods  upon  the  dry  ground :  I  will  pour  my  spirit  upon  thy 
seed  and  my  blessing  upon  thy  offspring,"  But  assurances  of 
divine  assistance  were  never  designed  to  discourage  human  en- 
deavours. They  diminished  not  the  zeal  and  the  labours  of 
Zerubbabel.  Paul  and  Apollos  well  knew  that  the  "  increase" 
must  be  of  God,  but  this  animated,  aot  retarded  them  in  the 
services  of  planting  and  watering.  In  many  of  his  mighty  works 
it  is  the  pleasure  of  Jehovah  to  act  alone.  Alone  he  planted  the 
heavens  and  laid  the  foundations  of  the  earth.  He  asks  the  aid 
of  no  created  arm  when  he  balances  the  clouds,  directs  the  thun- 
der or  arranges  the  stars.  Day  and  night,  summer  and  winter, 
seed-time  and  harvest  obey  no  voice  but  his.  But  for  effecting 
the  conversion  of  sinners,  sanctifying  their  hearts  an<l  preparing 
them  for  the  everlasting  enjoyment  of  his  presence  in  heaven, 
he  usually  acts  through  the  medium  of  instruments.  He  has 
commissioned  his  ministers  to  "go  into  all  the  world  and  preach 
the  gospel  to  every  creature."  Treasures  of  grace  are  intro- 
duced into  "  earthen  vessels."  Even  the  private  christian,  as 
well  as  the  pastor  or  the  teacher,  is  permitted  to  enjoy  the  ho- 
nour of  being  a  "fellow  worker  with  God."  The  preaching  of 
the  everlasting  gospel  "  unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,  and 
to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people,"  combined  with 
the  prayers  and  liberality  of  the  churches,  will  usher  in  the  day 
of  Babylon's  destruction  and  the  general  triumphs  of  holiness 
and  truth. 

To  considerations  such  as  these  professors  of  the  gospel  have 
surely  attached  too  little  importance.  They  have  looked  for  a 
harvest  without  a  seed-time  :  or  where  the  necessity  of  the  la- 
bours of  the  spring  has  been  admitted,  content  with  seeing  others 
in  the  field,  they  have  themselves  stood  "all  the  day  idle."  The 
industry,  the  privations,  the  successes  of  the  missionaries  of 
Christ  may  have  excited  a  languid  and  transient  admiration,  but 
ah  !  how  few  have  ventured  on  their  labours  or  imbibed  their 
spirit  ?  W  ho  will  pretend  that  the  zeal  of  a  Swartz  or  a  Van- 
derkemp,  of  Marshman,  Ward  or  the  Careys  has  been  excessive, 
beyond  what  the  state  of  the  heathen,  the  honour  of  Christ  or  the 
duty  of  the  christian  demands.'     But,  bi  ethren,  if  theirs  be  cor- 


40  ADDRESS. 

rect,  ours  has  been  deplorably  deficient.  Shall  their  ferv^oufs 
for  the  divine  uonour  exhibit  a  steady  and  satted  flame,  and  ours 
slumber  in  ashes?  Rather  let  us  profit  by  their  examples,  and 
aspire  to  their  usefulness  and  honour. 

I'he  gospel  of  Christ,  above  every  other  system,  cigirates 
and  sustains  a  public  spirit.  **  None  ot  us  hveth  unto  himself, 
none  of  us  dieth  unto  himself/'  The  design  of  the  obedience 
and  sufferings  of  Jesus  recognizes  none  of  those  inferiour  dis- 
tinctions which  divide  man  from  man.  The  gospel  secures 
the  salvation  of  a  multitude  "  which  no  man  can  number,  ol  all 
nations,  and  kindreds,  and  people,  and  tongues."  It  presents  a 
sovereign  remedy  for  all  the  diseases  which  awakened  sinners 
of  every  rank,  and  of  every  clime,  feel  and  deplore.  The  Apos- 
tle of  the  Gentiles  longed  and  toiled  for  the  salvation  of  his 
countrymen,  but  he  also  travelled  from  province  to  province, 
from  Jerusalem  to  lilyricum,  publishing  salvation  through  a 
Mediator's  name.  What  advantages  soever  particular  fields 
for  missionary  efforts  may  exhibit,  the  disciple  of  Jesus  will 
Contemplate  the  whole  world  as  a  scene  demanding  his  sympathy 
and  his  prayers,  his  zeal  and  his  contributions.  Four  hundred 
millions  of  our  fellow  creatures  spread  over  the  countries  of 
Hindostan,  Siam,  Tartary,  China  and  its  neighbouring  islands, 
various  parts  of  Africa,  America,  and  the  isles  of  the  Pacific 
Ocean  are  involved  in  the  darkness  of  Paganism.  Their  idola- 
try is  associated  with  customs,  absurd,  sanguinary  and  obscene. 
The  female  character  is  sunk  in  servility  and  wretchedness. 
Millions  in  Europe,  Africa  and  Asia  are  revering  the  Arabian 
impostor  as  a  messenger  from  God,  and  the  Koran  as  their 
guide  to  Paradise.  1  en  millions  of  our  race  are  Jews,  scatter- 
ed throughout  every  nation,  and  are  every  where  resting  in  their 
L,aw  and  rejecting  the  Messiih.  In  many  sections  of  our  globe, 
where  Christianity  is  publicly  professed,  it  has  been  so  mixed 
with  vain  superstitions,  its  doctrines  so  misinterpreted,  its  du- 
ties so  n)istaken,  and  the  means  by  which  it  has  been  propagated 
and  maintained,  so  repugnant  to  its  pure  and  gentle  spirit,  that 
even  Christendom  itself  presents  scenes  for  pious  exertion, 
which  for  ignorance  and  misery,  are  in  heathen  regions  scarce- 
ly exceeded. 

Who  can  contemplate  the  prospect  our  world  presents  with- 
out exclaiming  "  mine  eye  affecteth  my  heart  r"  The  soul  of  a 
Tartar,  or  a  Hindoo,  of  an  Indian  or  a  Mussulman  is  as  won- 
derful a  faculty,  as  immaterial  and  immortal  as  the  soul  of  a 
Christian.  It  is  as  susceptible  as  his,  of  hope  and  fear,  of  ex- 
tacy  and  anguish  :  but  alas !  it  is  dead  in  trespasses  and  sins, 
destitute  ol  the  lighcof  revelation  and  in  danger  of  eternal  fire  :. 


ADDRESS.  *1 

*'  for  as  many  as  have  sinned  without  the  law,  shall  perish  also 
without  the  law."  Were  circumstances  reversed  ;  were  we  in 
moral  darkness  and  the  pagan  world  enjoying  the  light  of  life,self- 
love  would  instantly  suggest  to  us  the  benevolent  duties  which 
it  would  become  them  to  discharge.  Those  very  duties  are  our 
own.  The  holy  men  who  saw  our  fore-fathers  prostrating 
themselves  before  the  shrines  of  a  Woden  or  a  Thor,  and  who 
exhorted  them  to  turn  from  idols  to  serve  the  living  and  the 
true  God,  have  left  us  in  their  toils  an  example  of  duty  and  in 
their  successes  encouragement  for  our  liveliest  hopes. 

Within  the  last  few  years,  it  has  pleased  the  good  spirit  of  our 
God  to  awaken  in  his  churches  a  serious  concern  for  the  diffusion 
of  the  Saviour's  cause.  Numerous,  and  in  some  instances  large 
associations  of  Christians  have  been  formed  for  the  purpose  : 
considerable  sums  of  money  have  been  collected  ;  bibles  and  re- 
ligious tracts  are  extensively  and  gratuitously  circulating,  and 
the  hope  which  thousands  cherish  that  the  glory  of  the  latter 
days  is  at  hand,  is  as  operative  as  it  is  joyous.  The  blessing 
which  has  succeeded  the  efforts  of  our  denomination  in  India, 
demands  our  gratitude.  In  a  few  years,  the  word  of  life  will 
probably  be  translated  into  all  the  languages  of  the  East.  The 
change  of  sentiment  relative  to  the  subject  of  baptism  that  has 
lately  occured  in  the  minds  of  two  respectable  characters,  who 
were  sent  out  as  Missionaries,  by  another  denomination  of  our 
christian  brethren,  appears  to  have  been  of  the  Lord  and  design- 
ed as  a  means  of  exciting  the  attention  of  our  churches  to  foreign 
Missions.  The  engagedness  of  these  worthy  brethren  in  the 
work  of  the  Lord  continues.  They  look  to  us  for  aid,  are  actu- 
ally under  our  care,  and  have  an  undoubted  claim  to  our  united 
and  firm  support.  One  of  them  is  about  to  travel  through  dif- 
ferent parts  of  the  Union  with  a  view  of  increasing  the  number 
of  Missionary  establishments.  We  anticipate  with  pleasure, 
your  zealous  co  operation.  The  brevity  of  life,  the  value  of  im- 
mortal souls,  the  obligations  under  which  divine  mercy  has  laid 
us,  our  past  inactivity,  the  facility  with  which  the  great  work 
may  be  effected,  the  excellent  tender.cy  of  the  spirit  for  foreign 
Missions  in  multiplying  Missions  at  home,  the  examples  of  other 
christian  persuasions, and  the  incalculable  blessings  that  may  fol- 
low our  endeavours,  form  a  body  of  motive  which  we  hope  will 
kindle  in  many  of  our  youth  an  ardent  desire  to  enter  on  Mis- 
sionary services,  and  in  you  the  holy  resolution  to  minister  of 
your  abundance  to  all  who  s.hall  go  forth  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord. 

But,  while  we  call  your  attention  to  the  spread  of  evangelic 
truth,  we  would  impress  on  your  minds  that  many  other  and  most 


4j?  ADDRESS. 

important  advantages  may  arise  to  the  interests  of  Christ  among 
us  from  our  acting  as  societies  and  on  the  more  extended  scale 
of  a  Convention,  in  delightful  union.  The  independence  of  the 
churches,  we  trust  will  ever,  among  us,  be  steadfastly  maintained; 
but  with  this,  as  they  are  entirely  voluntary,  the  holy  combina- 
tions we  wish  for,  can  never  interfere.  Is  it  not  a  fact  that  our 
churches  are  ignorant  of  each  other  tea  lamentable  degree  ?  But 
for  the  labours  of  one  or  two  individuals,  it  is  probable  that  whole 
Associations  might  have  assembled  in  different  parts  of  our 
Union  without  being  known  or  knowing  that  others  existed. 
We  have  "one  Lord,  one  faith,  one  baptism,"  why  should  our 
ignorance  of  each  other  continue  ?  why  prevent  us  from  uniting 
in  one  common  effort  for  the  glory  of  the  Son  of  God  ?  At  the 
present  Convention  the  sight  of  brethren  who  had  never  met 
each  other  before,  and  who  a  few  months  ago  had  never  expected 
to  meet  on  earth,  afforded  mutual  and  unutterable  pleasure.  It 
was  as  if  the  first  interviews  of  heaven  had  been  anticipated. 

The  efforts  of  the  present  convention  have  been  directed 
chiefly  to  the  establishment  of  a  foreign  Mission ;  but,  it  is 
expected  that  when  the  general  concert  of  their  brethren  and 
sufficient  contributions  to  a  common  fund  shall  furnish  them 
with  proper  instruction  and  adequate  means,  the  promotion  of 
the  interests  of  the  churches  at  home  will  enter  into  the  deliber- 
ations of  future  meetings. 

It  is  deeply  to  be  regretted  that  no  more  attention  is  paid 
to  the  improvement  of  the  minds  of  pious  youth  who  are 
called  to  the  gospel  ministry.  While  this  is  neglected  the  cause 
of  God  must  suffer.  Within  the  last  fifty  years,  by  the  diffu- 
sion of  knowledge  and  attention  to  liberal  science  the  state  of 
society  has  become  considerably  elevated.  It  is  certainly 
desirable  the  information  of  the  minister  of  the  sanctuary 
should  increase  in  an  equal  proportion.  Other  denominations 
are  directing  their  attention  with  signal  ardour  to  the  instruc- 
tion of  their  youth  for  this  purpose.  They  are  assisting  them 
to  peruse  the  sacred  writings  in  their  original  languages,and  sup- 
plying other  aids  for  pulpit  services,  which,  through  the  grace 
of  the  Holy  Spirit  may  become  eminently  sanctified  for  the 
general  good.  While  we  avowour  belief  that  a  refined  or  liberal 
education  is  not  an  indispensible  qualification  for  ministerial 
service,  let  us  never  lose  sight  of  its  real  importance,  but  labour 
to  help  our  young  men  by  our  contributions,  by  the  origination 
of  education  Societies,  and  if  possible,  by  a  general  theological 
seminary,  where  some  at  least,  may  obtain  all  the  advantage, 
which  learning  and  mature  studies  can  afford,  to  qualify  for  act- 
ing the  part  of  Men  who  are  set  for  the  defence  of  the  gospel. 


ADDRESS.  43 

Improvement  of  this  nature  will  contribute  to  roll  away  from  the 
churches  the  reproach  of  neglecting  to  support  the  nninistry  of 
the  word.  They  will  be  unwilling  to  receive  for  nothing  that 
which  has  cost  their  ministers  much. 

Finally  brethren,  "  be  ye  steadfast,  immoveable,  always  a- 
*'  bounding  in  the  work  of  the  Lord,  forasmuch  as  ye  know  that 
"  your  labour  is  not  in  vain  in  the  Lord." 

PJCHARD  FURMAN,  President. 


Attest, 

THOMAS  BALDWIN,  Secretary. 


SJECIMEIN^S 
Ot*  Wo  of  the  EasleTiiX.aTigxiages. 

Tlie  Sioigstrila. 

^^^^ra'stii  urn  \''T^wjl^v^  TT^T 


Spoken  at  Rangoon  S-'e. 
IMatlliew.^arl  ol'chap.ii.       ==  We  tav^e  seen, 
his  stacuiLlie  east,  and  are  come  to%vorship  liim. 

:^OCOODOGCOOC^OOC^roC^i         11393  OOeC0039 

(3\cSiooc^eoOooiii        iiCDoo3^a?c^cooiiQOo 

(OO^GOOII       ilOOoo^OOOOOO^ll       II^OO^CO<3)<5|^^I    II 
GCOUOfoOGCOll      IIGfoODDDSoOcSl 
Till*  IS  the  Ian ^u acre  of  a  whole   Rniprre. 


