Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


k 


THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES 


or 


SELINA  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON, 


\ 


t; 


i' 


STANFORD  I' MVERSITY  LIBRARIES 


THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES 


or 


SELINA  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON. 


a/'  ^lt/h^<^M£am. 


THE 

LIFE  AND  TIMES 

SELINA 
COUNTESS  Of  HUNTINGDON. 


BY  A  UEUBER  OF  TUE  UOtSES  OF  SnUlLEY  AKD  tUSTIKGS. 


FOURTH   THOUSAND 


VOL.  I. 


lonBoii : 

WILLIAM  EDWAKD  PAINTEE,  STRAND: 
UBCCCXL. 


\/A 


EKTERE1>  AT  STATIONERS'  HALL. 


WILUAM  MWABD  PAWTf  B,  OTIUJtP,  LOIIDOK,  PWKIJIlU 


PREFACE. 


It  was  the  express  wish  of  Lady  Huntintodon,  that,  at  least  for 
some  years  after  her  decease,  her  memory  should  be  suffered 
to  rest,  and  her  actions  to  make  their  own  impression  on  the 
minds  of  men.  In  deference  to  this  wish,  all  attempts  at  the 
publication  of  her  Correspondence  have  been  resisted  by  her 
Noble  Relatives ;  and  it  is  only  at  the  present  day  that  a  Cadet 
of  her  illustrious  Family,  after  long  years  employed  in  the  col- 
lection and  examination  of  the  Documents  and  Papers  to  which 
he  alone,  perhaps,  was  in  a  condition  to  have  easy  and  continued 
access,  has  been  induced  to  arrange  his  materials  into  the  form 
of  a  Memoir  of  the  Life  and  Times  of  Selina  Countess 
OF  Huntingdon. 

Circumstances  having  prevented  the  Author  from  personally 
superintending  the  publication  of  this  Work,  a  large  share  of 
responsibility  has  been  thrown  on  those  to  whose  hands  it  was 
committed ;  but  the  task  was  a  labour  of  love,  and  the  pub- 
lication has  been  conducted  with  all  possible  regard  to  the 
public  demand  for  ample  information,  to  the  feelings  of  the 
living,  and  the  memory  of  the  dead. 

Among  the  illustrious  characters  of  the  eighteenth  century, 
no  one  has  shone  more  conspicuously  in  the  religious  world,  or 
enjoyed  a  greater  share  of  heartfelt  esteem  and  love,  than  th9 


11 

venerable  Countess  of  Huntingdon.  Above  all  her  cele- 
brated Contemporaries,  she  was  honoured  with  a  life  of  con- 
tinued usefulness,  protracted  to  the  utmost  period  of  mortal 
existence ;  with  extraordinary  talents,  ample  means,  and  a  head 
and  heart  alike  devoted  to  promote  the  "  glory  of  God  in  the 
highest,  and  on  earth  peace  and  good-will  towards  man." 

Her  body  has  long  been  committed  to  the  earth  from  which 
it  sprang,  and  her  soul  has  returned  to  God  who  gave  it,  but 
she  has  left  on  earth  a  testimony  which  will  outlive  monuments 
of  brass  and  stone ;  a  reputation  which  has  spread  to  the  corners 
of  the  world,  and  a  name  which  is  reverenced  by  all  whose 
approbation  is  praise. 

The  curiosity  that  has  been  as  generally  expressed  as  univer- 
sally felt  to  know  more  of  the  life  and  character  of  this,  in  the 
best  sense  of  the  word,  Illustrious  Woman,  is  a  feeling  which 
ought  to  be  respected ;  and  it  has  at  length  become  a  duty  to 
make  every  effort  in  order  to  save  from  destruction  those  invalu- 
able records  of  her  heart  and  feeling ;  those  delightful  traits  of 
her  distinguished  friends ;  those  heart-stirring  pictures  of  her 
private  and  every-day  life ;  and  those  important  records  of  her 
public  services  to  religion  and  humanity,  which  are  contained 
in  these  volumes,  and  which,  but  for  the  present  publication, 
might  have  expired  with  their  compiler;  or  have  loft  but  a 
vague  memory  of  her  excellence,  except  in  those  instances  where 
the  sacrifice  of  her  fortune  has  raised  imperishable  monuments 
to  her  piety. 

The  object  of  the  present  work  has  been  to  afford  a"  view  of 
the  Life  and  Times  of  this  distinguished  Woman  so  clear  and 
ample  as  to  render  superfluous  all  future  or  collateral  efforts 
at  illustration.  Every  fact  and  incident  of  her  long  life  is 
here  recorded — every  triumph  of  the  Cross  under  her  vigor- 
ous and  well-directed  leading — every  place  of  worship  opened 


lU 

under  her  auspices — and  every  mark  of  divine  favour  and  en* 
couraging  grace  bestowed  upon  ber  labours. 

Conscious  of  the  purity  of  his  motive,  and  having  for  all  his 
incentive  the  desire  to  pay  just  tribute  to  the  memory  of  the 
departed  Saint  whose  name  he  honours,  the  Author  has  spoken 
truth  from  his  heart,  resolved  to  flatter  no  one — to  know  no  fear 
in  the  discharge  of  his  duty.  He  has  sought,  with  candid  zeal, 
to  avoid  every  evidence  of  a  sectarian  or  party  spirit  in  his  state- 
ments. Bigotry,  on  both  sides,  may  censure;  but  the  just  and 
generous,  on  all  sides,  will  approve  his  course.  Narrow  pre* 
judices  are  already  vanishing ;  and  good  men,  of  all  denomina- 
tions, are  ready  to  embrace  the  truth  and  each  other.  The 
good  Countess  was,  in  this  respect,  before  her  age ;  and  it  is 
her  Catholic  and  Christian  spirit  which  appears  to  have  inspired 
her  kinsman  in  the  composition  of  this  Memoir :  read  in  the 
same  spirit,  it  will  serve  to  accelerate  the  benevolent  current  of 
true  godUness,  and  to  sweep  away  the  narrow  and  contracted  dis- 
positions which  would  check  its  overflow  or  turn  aside  its  course. 

With  this  feeling,  the  Author  has  drawn,  without  hesitation, 
from  all  accessible  sources,  the  illustrative  matter  of  his  Memoir. 
The  Biographies  of  Whitefield,  Wesley,  Venn,  and  the 
Works  and  Letters  of  Fletcher,  Berridge,  Romaine,  Watts, 
Hill,  and  other  eminently  pious  individuals,  have  supplied  in- 
valuable contributions  to  the  Work;  but  its  more  valuable  portion 
consists  in  the  Original  Letters  and  Anecdotes  with  which  it 
teems,  and  in  the  straightfon^ard  integrity  of  purpose  in  its 
Author.     Of  himself  and  of  his  Work,  he  says : — 

"  To  God,  only  wise,  the  Author  of  every  good  and  perfect 
gift,  my  humble  acknowledgments  are  paid.  His  grace  ren- 
dered the  subject  of  this  Memoir  what  she  was — His  wisdom 
directed  her  pious  and  benevolent  efforts  for  the  extension  of 
the  Redeemer's  kingdom — and  His  Spirit  supported  her  in  her 


iv 


departing  hours.  To  Him,  therefore,  and  to  Him  alone,  whose 
influence  I  implore,  I  commit  these  Memoirs,  such  as  they  are, 
in  the  hope  that  He  will  vouchsafe  his  blessing  on  a  work  which 
originated  In  an  ardent  desire  to  promote  his  glory ;  and  that 
he  will  render  it  an  instrument  to  extend  the  knowledge  and 
experience  of  the  glorious  Gospel  of  God  our  Saviour," 

With  these  glowing  words  of  the  pious  Author,  the  Con- 
ductors commit  his  Work  to  the  candid  judgment  of  the  en- 
lightened reader :  remarking  merely,  as  they  are  in  justice  bound 
to  do,  that  the  Religious  Institution  now  known  as  ^^  The  Coti" 
nexian  of  the  late  Countess  of  HuntingdorC^  does  not  incur  the 
slightest  responsibility  with  regard  to  this  Work :  and  that  the 
Reverend  Author  of  the  Introduction  to  the  present  Volume 
has  undertaken  to  resume  his  pen  for  a  similar  introductory 
paper  to  the  second  volume  of  these  Memoirs. 


INTRODUCTION. 


PART  I. 


Man,  amidst  an  almost  infinite  variety  of  circumstances,  and 
modified,  both  in  body  and  mind,  by  a  thousand  accidental  in- 
fluences, is,  in  every  age  and   country,  essentially  the  same. 
The  OS  sublime  and  the  mens  alta  alike  distinguish  him  from 
the  other  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  and  show,  whatever  may  be  his 
complexion  and  mental  training,  that  God  has  made  him  to 
have  dominion  over  the  works  of  his  hands — has  put  all  things 
in  subjection  under  him.     Nor  is  there  less  of  identity  in  man's 
moral  propensities  than  in  his  corporeal  and  instinctive  powers. 
Bent  from  his  original  rectitude,  he  stoops  towards  earth  and 
the  things  of  earth,  and  gives  sad  proof  of  having  lost  affection 
for  the  Source  of  his  existence,  and  of  being  inclined  to  worship 
the  creature  more  than  the  Creator.     The  nide  savage,  the 
superstitious  devotee,  and  the  intellectual  sceptic  do  not  like  to 
retain  God  in  their  knowle<lge — that  God  who  is  "  glorious  in 
holiness,"  who  is  partially  made  known  to  his  creatures  by  the 
works  of  his  hand,  and  more  fully  revealed,  and  in  a  more 
encouraging  light,  by  the  words  of  his  mouth. 

This  Atheistic  spirit  laboured  with  a  giant's  strength  to  de- 
face the  character  of  Deity  impressed  on  the  world  before  the 
flood ;  had  cursed  the  earth  with  abominable  idolatry,  or  with 


VI 

heartless  superstition,  before  the  coining  of  our  Lord  in  the 
flesh ;  and,  not  satisfied  with  the  mischief  effected  under  dis- 
pensations of  mercy  less  intelligible  and  distinct,  has,  to  a  most 
awful  extent,  corrupted  a  Church,  professedly  Christian,  as  it 
had  polluted  both  the  Jewish  temple  and  the  Patriarchal  tent. 
To  educe  good  out  of  evil,  is  the  province  of  the  Supreme  Good ; 
to  pervert  the  good,  and,  so  far  as  it  relates  to  his  own  percep- 
tions and  conduct,  to  abuse  and  prostitute  it  to  the  worst  of 
purposes,  is  alas  !  the  work  of  man. 

Nothing  can  more  affectingly  evince  the  truth  of  this  remark 
than  the  contrast  of  the  Church  of  Rome  with  the  Church  of 
the  Apostles ;  than  the  pomp  and  mummery,  the  dogmatism 
and  tyranny,  the  secularity,  the  superstition,  and  the  heathenism 
of  Popery  with  the  simplicity,  the  spirituality,  and  the  divinity  of 
that  religion  which  the  writers  of  the  New  Testament  advocated, 
for  which  they  all  suffered,  and  for  which  most  of  them  died. 
The  vapour  which,  rising  from  the  twofold  shores  of  Corinth  and 
the  province  of  Galatia,  annoyed  Saint  Paul,  continued  to  spread 
itself  and  to  increase  in  density,  till  the  true  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  became  scarcely  perceptible,  and  ultimately  was  totally 
obscured  by  the  thick  and  dark  cloud.  Let  the  mind  proceed 
from  the  Apostles  to  Eusebius,  thence  to  Augustine,  and 
the  next  advance  is  to  settled  darkness,  rendered  visible  by  a  few 
solitary  rays  of  piety — real,  though  faint  and  sickly,  and  the  tran- 
sient scintillations  of  scholastic  wit  and  learning.  The  page  of 
Ecclesiastical  History,  though  inscribed  by  persons  less  evan- 
gelical than  the  Milners,  will  show  that  even  superstition  was 
only  one  shade  in  the  dark  ages ;  that  vital  godliness,  as  if  in 
disgust,  had  fled  from  the  Church,  as  she  was  pleased  to  call 
herself,  to  deserts,  and  mountains,  and  dens,  and  caves  of  the 
earth ;  that  Justification  before  God,  by  faith  alone  in  Jesus 
Christ,  the  '^  Articulus  stantis  autcadentis EcclesicBy^  as  Luther 
termed  it,  was  buried  beneath  the  records  of  Councils  and  the 
volumes  of  Fathers ;  and  that  men,  having  renounced  the  Lord 
as  their  righteousness,  were  without  him  as  their  strength. 
Like  Samson,  the  Church  was  shorn  of  her  energy  and  deprived 
of  sight — the  sport  of  the  Philistines. 


Vll 


It  was  the  glory  of  the  Reformation  that  it  struck  at  the  root 
of  the  evil.  The  Church  of  Rome,  not  satisfied  with  seeking 
righteousness  by  the  works  of  the  law,  must  needs  arrogate  to 
herself  a  property  in  works  of  supererogation,  and  impudently 
bring  it  into  the  market ;  but  for  this  daring  imposition  on 
common  sense,  the  fire  of  Luther  might  have  been  employed 
rather  in  consuming  the  drapery  of  the  Man  of  Sin  than  in  the 
destruction  of  his  person.  The  sale  of  indulgences,  however, 
was  such  an  outrage  on  the  principle  of  the  Gospel,  that  it 
roused  his  powerful  mind,  even  when  only  partially  enlightened, 
to  bring  all  its  united  force  against  the  blighting  and  unholy 
doctrine  of  human  merit.  Thus,  in  the  process  of  resuscitation, 
the  Holy  Spirit,  by  the  agency  of  the  Reformers,  instead 
of  restoring  vital  heat  by  friction  at  the  extremities,  breathed 
into  the  dead  Church  the  breath  of  life,  and  restored  to  her  a 
living  soul.  Animation  diffused  itself  through  a  vast  range  of 
nominal  Christians,  converting  them  into  living  members  of  the 
body  of  Christ;  and  the  life,  which  was  felt  to  be  redeemed, 
was  consecrated  to  Him  "  who  loved  his  Church  and  gave  him- 
self for  it." 

The  number  of  truly  converted  persons  was,  no  doubt,  very 
considerable  in  the  days  of  the  Reformers,  and  the  hallowed 
work  progressed  under  their  survivors,  both  on  the  continent  of 
Europe  and  in  Great  Britain.  It  would,  however,  be  false 
charity  to  conclude  that  all  Protestants,  even  during  the  warmth 
and  freshness  of  the  Reformation,  were  true  Christians;  an 
acquaintance  with  the  history  of  the  times,  and  with  human 
nature,  as  well  as  with  the  subsequent  condition  of  Protestant 
Christendom,  will  compel  us  to  say,  "  that  all  were  not  Israel 
who  were  of  Israel ;"  that  multitudes,  from  political  and  secular 
motives,  and  from  the  force  of  custom,  or  from  a  conviction  of 
the  truth  rather  as  an  intellectual  than  as  a  moral  proposition, 
protested  more  against  the  errors  of  the  Man  of  Sin  than  against 
his  iniquities,  and  were  more  anxious  for  emancipation  from  the 
thraldom  of  superstition  than  from  the  bondage  of  corruption. 
The  easy  transition,  indeed,  of  the  majority  from  one  state  to 
another,  under  Henry  the  Eighth  and  the  youthful  Edward; 
their  coming  back  again  to  Popery  under  Mary  ;  and  their 


VUl 

ready  return  to  Protestantism  under  her  sister — ^proves  that  how- 
ever many  loved  the  truth,  even  unto  the  death,  more  were 
indifferent  to  its  divine  claims,  and  accommodated  themselves  to 
the  times.  The  Vicar  of  Bray  was  only  one  of  many  who  ebbed 
and  flowed  with  the  ocean ;  and  of  those  who  will  always  show 
that  a  national  religious  improvement  may  be  effected,  where  the 
renewal  of  the  mind  in  the  great  body  of  society  does  not  take 
place.  Worldly  men  will  preserve  the  element  of  their  character 
amidst  great  external  modifications — an  element  as  decidedly 
opposed  to  the  holy  and  humbling  truths  of  the  Gospel,  in  the 
Protestant  as  in  the  Papist,  though  exhibited  under  different 
forms. 

This  was  the  case  in  the  reign  of  Elizabeth.  We  hail, 
indeed,  with  feelings  kindred  with  those  of  Milton,  when  he 
escaped  **  the  Stygian  Pool,"  the  settling  of  a  better  order  of 
Ecclesiastical  affairs,  the  liberty  of  prophesying  given  to  the 
ministers  of  Christ,  and  the  eminent  piety,  learning,  and  zeal 
of  many  of  the  clergy.  Her  reign  is  as  illustrious  for  men 
devoted  to  the  kingdom  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  as  it  is  for 
patriots  and  politicians  :  the  preaching  and  the  writings  of  those 
men,  some  of  whom  were  the  survivors  of  the  martyrs,  and 
of  whom  others  seemed  to  grow  out  of  their  ashes,  tended  much 
to  instruct  the  people  in  the  great  principles  of  the  Gospel. 
These  labourers,  however,  were  few,  compared  with  the  extent 
and  population  of  their  spheres  of  action,  and  they  could  not  fail 
to  leave  the  mass  of  the  people  without  the  knowledge  of  true 
religion,  and,  consequently,  unrenewed  by  its  power.  Nay,  the 
majority  of  those  who  professed  to  guide  the  blind  were  them- 
selves, it  is  to  be  feared,  destitute  of  the  wisdom  that  cometh  from 
above,  and  thus  unqualified  to  show  to  others  the  way  of  salvation : 
for,  we  are  informed,  that,  "  By  the  Report  of  the  visiters  to  the 
Queen,  it  was  found  that,  comparatively  very  few  of  the  Popish 
Bishops,  Clergy,  and  Heads  of  Colleges,  resigned  their  prefer- 
ments on  account  of  the  new  order  of  things ;  and  it  was  remem- 
bered, that  the  greatest  part  of  them  went  with  the  tide  in 
Edward's  reign,  and  veered  about  as  readily  with  the  wind  on 
the  accession  of  Mary." — {Custance^s  Reformation.)  It  would 
^ave  been  ex  Jumo  dare  lucem  indeed  if  such  men  had  done 


IX 


much  towards  the  evangeKzing  of  the  nation.  The  Queen, 
herself  a  genuine  Tudor,  aiming  at  absolute  sovereignty,  wished 
to  encircle  her  throne  with  clouds  of  darkness,  admitting  only 
so  much  light  as  might  show  that  she,  and  not  the  Bishop 
of  Rome,  was  seated  on  it.  She  chose,  and  with  reason,- 
men  of  powerful  minds  to  assist  her  in  working  the  state  ma- 
chine ;  but  she  by  no  means  wished  that  society  at  large  should 
be  enlightened  with  principles  which,  raising  the  intellec- 
tual as  well  as  the  moral  character,  and  cherishing  a  conscious- 
ness of  this  elevation,  would  probably  lead  her  subjects  to 
question,  where  it  was  more  convenient  to  her  that  they  should 
obey.  "  One  preacher  is  enough  for  a  county,"  was  the  re- 
corded expression  of  her  sentiment  on  this  most  important 
subject. 

We  must,  therefore,  conclude,  that  under  this  extraordinary 
ruler — for  one  does  not  like  to  contemplate  her  as  a  woman — 
the  nation,  as  a  whole,  with  all  its  improvements,  was  dark,  or, 
at  best,  only  relieved  with  a  dim  religious  light.  Under  James, 
the  Bible  was  re-translated,  copies  of  it  were  multiplied,  and 
ministers  sincerely  Protestant  greatly  increased  in  number ;  but 
there  was  a  re-action  in  theological  sentiments  which  tended  to 
lower  the  tone  of  piety  in  those  even  who  were  truly  religious. 
Calvinism,  as  it  is  called,  had  before  this  reign,  in  numerous 
instances,  assumed  an  appearance  of  harshness,  in  the  employ- 
ment of  supra-lapsarian  terms,  though  so  generally  and  ably 
supported  by  men  of  the  most  holy  character  and  kindly  hearts : 
but  now  the  influence  of  Arminius  was  experienced.  A  large 
part  of  the  clergy  went  over  from  scholastic  terms  and  metaphy- 
sical notions,  more  speculative  than  practical,  to  doctrines  which, 
as  they  reject  the  grace  by  which  we  are  saved,  necessarily 
leave  the  soul,  amidst  all  its  moral  boastings,  in  the  bonds  of 
iniquity.  This  obscuration  of  the  glorious  Gospel  of  the 
Blessed  God,  by  low,  self-righteous  instructors,  more  than  by 
any  afiectation  of  godliness  in  the  time  of  the  Protector,  pre- 
pared the  nation  for  that  laxity,  both  of  morals  and  of  creed, 
that  licentiousness  and  infidelity,  which  stamp  infamy  on  the 
reign  of  the  second  Charles.    The  ribaldry  of  Rochester,  the 


wit  of  Butler,  and  the  buffoonery  of  South, — all  had  a  baneful 
influence  on  the  Court  and  the  Nation ;  and  obscured  the  holy 
light  which  had  appeared  to  radiate  from  the  stake  of  the  martyrs. 

Morals  and  religious  principles  have  perhaps  never  been  at  a 
lower  ebb  in  our  nation  since  the  Reformation,  than  during  this 
period — a  period,  the  true  character  of  which  it  is  one  of  the 
most  difficult  studies  in  English  history  to  determine.  Even  the 
best  men  of  the  age,  in  their  joy  for  a  restored  monarchy,  and 
bewilderment  at  the  splendour  and  politeness  of  the  Court, 
were  led  to  give  a  false  colour  to  their  records  of  these  times, 
and  to  merge  the  all-important  considerations  of  morals  and 
truth  in  the  theoretic  speculations  of  a  civil  and  religious  esta- 
blishment. Whatever  may  be  said  on  the  question  of  equity, 
there  can,  we  imagine,  be  no  doubt  in  an  unprejudiced  Christian, 
that  the  ejecting  of  the  non-conformists,  and  the  patronizing  of 
a  very  different  class  of  men,  taken  as  a  whole,  both  ecclesiastic 
and  secular,  was  a  heavy  blow  inflicted  on  true  piety,  and  intro- 
duced a  style  of  preaching  which  operates  as  a  soporific  on  the 
moral  sense,  and  as  a  cloud  on  the  moral  vision.  Most  victories 
are  costly,  and  the  triumph  of  monarchical  principle,  however 
desirable,  by  overlaying  the  living  and  evangelical  spirit  with  a 
uniform  machinery,  in  too  many  instances  worked  by  careless 
hands,'was  gained  at  an  expense  which  it  is  not  easy  to  calculate, 
but  which  must  qualify  the  pleasure  su^ested  to  a  loyal  heart 
by  the  return  of  the  twenty-ninth  of  May. 

England  may  well  be  proud  of  the  science  and  literature  of 
the  subsequent  age,  and  call  it  Augustan  :  Newton  and  Locke, 
in  the  worlds  of  matter  and  of  mind  ;  Dryden,  Pope,  and 
Thomson,  in  that  of  the  imagmation ;  and  Addison,  with  a 
host  of  prose  writers,  on  subjects  of  taste  and  morals — have 
given  it  claims  to  distinction,  and  illuminated  its  pages  in  intel- 
lectual history.  These  writers  obtained  great  influence  over 
the  nation,  and  whatever  good  they  effected,  by  giving  currency 
to  thought,  they  directed  it  in  channels  leading  from  evangelical 
piety,  to  sentiment,  and  ethics,  and  taste ;  or  to  physical  know- 
ledge. The  waters  were  indeed  clear  and  beautiful,  but  they  were 
unhealthy,  and,  in  some  respects,  the  opposite  of  the  Prophetic 


xi 


stream,  of  which  it  is  predicated,  "  Every  thing  shall  live  whither 
the  river  cometh."  The  most  chaste  and  moral  of  these  popu- 
lar works,  though  recognizing  Christianity,  are  unvivified  by  its 
spirit ;  and  while  they  advocate  the  claims  of  virtue,  found  not 
their  argument  on  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  and  teach,  often 
not  otherwise  than  as  a  heathen  would  have  taught,  social  duties 
and  graces,  rather  than  "  the  obedience  offaith!^  The  Founder 
of  Methodism  was  not  far  from  the  truth,  when  he  said,  that  few 
things  were  more  unfriendly  to  the  progress  of  the  Gospel  than 
the  national  fondness  for  Addison's  Spectator, 

Nor  was  the  political  feeling  without  its  baneful  influence  on 
the  religious  character  of  the  people.  As  the  fashion  of  the 
Court,  under  the  profligate  Charles,  had  raised  up  many  wits, 
like  Butler,  to  caricature  true  piety,  by  confounding  it  with 
hypocrisy,  so  the  repeated  efforts  made  to  restore  the  Stuarts 
filled  Protestants  with  a  dread  of  change,  and  induced  the  High 
Church  party,  most  unjustly,  to  consider  all  Dissenters,  however 
attached  to  the  House  of  Brunswick,  and  however  excelling  in 
all  the  virtues  of  true  religion,  as  confederate  with  the  Scottish 
Non-jurors  and  Jacobites;  and  thus,  by  an  easy  though  fallacious 
transition,  to  identify  evangelical  doctrine  with  revolutionary 
propensities. 

This,  as  the  following  Work  will  show,  was  a  reason  assigned 
by  the  local  magistrates  of  the  day,  for  their  leaving  the  Metho- 
dist preachers  unprotected  to  the  mal-treatment  of  the  mob,  in 
opposition  to  Royal  pleasure  directly  expressed ;  and  this  too, 
was  the  pretext  under  which  the  magistrates  themselves  avow- 
edly and  ostensibly  excited  the  ignorant  to  violence  and  outrage. 
Let  us  not  be  deemed  illiberal  if  we  notice,  as  one  cause  of 
the  general  apathy,  the  great  popularity  of  Tillotson.  It 
would,  indeed,  be  uncandid  and  unjust  not  to  recognize  his  nu- 
merous excellences,  both  as  a  man  and  as  a  writer,  and  his 
merit  of  giving  a  more  popular  character  to  pulpit  addresses  in 
the  Established  Church ;  but  whatever  other  good  his  sermons 
may  have  effected,  there  was  little  in  them  to  send  the  people 
home  imbued  with  the  great  principles  of  the  Gospel,  and  sym- 
pathizing with  St.  Paul>  when  be  exclaims,  <<  But  God  forbid 


xu 


that  I  should  glory,  save  in  the  cross  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
by  whom  the  world  is  crucified  unto  me,  and  I  unto  the  world." 

An  almost  total  absence  of  evangelical  doctrine — the  blood  of 
sprinkling — and  an  evident  carelessness  about  the  great  object 
of  the  Christian  Ministry,  even  where  there  may  not  be  gaiety 
and  immorality  of  conduct,  are  so  palpably  inconsistent  and 
reprehensible  in  a  professed  Minister  of  the  Gospel,  that  the 
evil,  in  a  great  degree,  neutraUzes  itself:  but  when  moral  excel- 
lence combines  with  truth  indeed,  animated  with  zeal  and  affec^ 
tioh,  yet  lacking  that  prominence  of  the  all-important  doctrines 
of  Revelation,  which  the  Holy  Ghost  has  in  all  ages  been 
pleased  to  bless  to  the  glorifying  of  Christ,  a  sort  of  quietus  is 
ministered  to  the  conscience,  and  decorum  and  formality  take 
the  place  of  "  Repentance  towards  God,  and  Faith  towards  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ."  Such  writers  as  Tillotson,  and  his  older 
friend,  Barrow,  will  be  studied  with  advantage  by  men  spiritually 
minded,  because  such  readers  will  give  an  evangelical  cast  to  the  ' 
strong  reasoning  and  beautiful  illustrations  of  these  writers  ;  but 
where  the  tone  of  feeling  is  to  be  received  from  the  authors  them- 
selves, we  cannot  but  think  that  it  will  be  cold.  English  literature, 
from  Steele  to  Johnson,  though  its  period  has  become  an  era 
in  the  history  of  morals,  has  had  the  same  tendency.  Amuse- 
ment and  instruction,  taste  and  decorum,  were  circulated  among 
a  people  now  denominated  "  a  reading  nation ;"  but  who  ever 
heard  of  a  sinner  being  brought  to  true  repentance  and  to  rejoice 
in  Christ  Jesus,  having  no  confidence  in  the  flesh,  by  a  paper 
of  the  Spectator  or  of  the  JRambler  ?  All  these  movements, 
indeed,  had  a  beneficial  influence  on  society,  in  preparing  the 
way  for  a  revival  in  religion,  by  exciting  the  attention  and  teach- 
ing the  mind  how  to  think ;  but  the  direct  effect,  in  most  cases, 
of  such  instruction,  was  either  to  lull  the  moral  sense  altogether, 
or  to  awaken  it  to  a  class  of  feelings  of  a  self-righteous  character, 
and,  as  such,  opposed  to  the  Gospel — the  righteousness  which 
is  of  God  by  fiuth. 

Thus  the  slumbering  embers  of  the  martyr-flame  had  died 
out,  and  a  degeneracy  of  doctrine  and  profligacy  of  manners  had 
spread  a  chilling  and  destructive  influence  over  a  partially  enlight-* 


XUl 

ened  community ;  and  Infidelity,  political  convulsions,  and  even 
literature  itself,  had  each  contributed  its  quota  to  form  a  national 
soporific.     Happily,  there  were  a  few  in  the  national  pulpits  who 
had  not  drank  of  this  cup,  and  among  the  Dissenters  some  holy 
men,  such  as  Watts  and  Doddridge,  well  represented  those  who 
had  sufiered  for  conscience'  sake  after  the  Restoration  :  Theolo- 
gical writings,  too,  had  accumulated,  which  will  continue  to  in* 
struct  and  bless  the  Church  of  Christ,  till  she  shall  know  even 
as  slie  is  known  :  but  there  was  a  heaviness  in  those  folios,  and 
too  much  of  evenness  in  the  public  ministrations  of  the  word,  for 
an  age  which  needed  a  moral  disturbance  to  prevent  its  sleeping 
the  sleep  of  death.     Arguments  against  Infidelity,  and  Ethics 
cold  though  beautiful,  were  the  usual  themes  of  the  parochial 
desk,  and  the  withering  influence  of  Arianism,  or  of  a  heartless 
Orthodoxy,  produced  death  in  many  of  the  Dissenting  congre- 
gations.    England  and  Wales,  therefore,  in  an  improved  condition 
of  Politics  and  Literature,  and  perhaps  also  of  Morals,  was 
generally  benumbed  by  the  torpedo  of  Formality,  and  the  vital 
feeling  and  zealous  activity  of  Christianity,  were  known  to  the 
few  only,  and  these  rather  mourned  over  the  state  of  things  in 
secret,  than  exerted  themselves  in  public  to  effect  an  alteration. 
It  is  not  for  us  to  hazard  even  a  conjecture  respecting  the 
number  of  persons  who  truly  loved  our  Lord  Jesus  in  this  coun- 
try at  the  earlier  part  of  the  last  century.     Piety  is  essentially 
a  quiet  and  secret  thing,  and  though  it  labours  to  do  good  at  all 
times,  is  greatly  dependent  on  circumstances  for  the  platform  on 
which  it  act,  that  may  be  the  domestic  hearth,  orit  maybe  "a 
spectacle  to  the  world."  -  At  this  period,  as  if  wearied  with  poli- 
tical distractions  and  disgusted  with  the  impertinence  of  Infidelity, 
the  pious  of  all  denominations  very  much  sought  retirement. 
We  may  hope,  therefore,  that  the  number  of  those  who  loved  the 
Gospel  was  much  greater  than  at  first,  and  by  comparison 
with  the  present  age,  it  seems  to  have  been ;  and  perhaps  no 
documents  furnished  greater  proofs  of  this  delightful  fact,  than  the 
early  correspondence  of  the  Countess  of  Huntingdon.     This 
gives  the  most  satisfactory  evidence  that  "honourable  women  not 
a  few,"  and  some  men  also  in  the  highest  walks,  were  quietly  ex- 

VOL.  I. — b 


XIV 


exercising  the  Christian  graces,  and  waiting  and  longing  for  better 
days,  before  the  Methodists  had  obtained  publicity.  Christians 
in  the  lower  ranks  of  the  community,  though  less  conspicuous, 
were  not  likely  to  be  far  behind  the  rich  and  the  noble  in  true 
religion ;  from  which  we  infer,  that  a  goodly  number  even  in  those 
seiisons  of  visible  lifelessness,  was  reserved  by  himself  for  the 
God  of  all  grace — especially  to  hail  and  to  aid  the  new  era  which 
was  about  to  rise  on  the  Church.  Extending  charity,  however, 
to  the  utmost  point  which  correct  judgment  will  allow,  we  must 
look  back  on  that  period  with  feelings  far  from  pleasurable.  The 
Church  is  not  likely  to  be  in  a  healthy  state  when  she  is  without 
exercise,  and  when  she  makes  little  or  no  aggressions  on  the 
world ;  nor  can  she  richly  enjoy  those  blessings  herself  which  she 
is  not  anxious  to  distribute  to  others.  But  there  are  specula- 
tions which  may  not  become  us  :  "  the  day  shall  declare  it." 

Happy  was  it  for  the  world  that  this  slumbering  did  not  con- 
tinue— that  men  arose,  who,  instead  of  inquiring  about  the  num- 
ber who  should  be  saved,  themselves  strove  to  enter  in  at  the 
strait  g^ate,  and  zealously  endeavoured  to  excite  others  to  follow 
their  example.  The  rise  of  Methodism  now  took  place,  in  a  band 
of  brothers  who  studied  at  Oxford.  Mr.  John  Wesley,  in  point 
of  time,  as  well  as  of  talent,  may  be  considered  the  first,  though 
it  is  evident  that  He  who  brings  the  blind  by  a  way  they  know 
not,  was  simultaneously  preparing  the  hearts  of  many  for  a  most 
efficient  co-operation  in  the  blessed  work  about  to  be  performed. 
Such  were  Whitefield,  Charles  Wesley,  Inoham,  and 
Hervey.  The  piety  of  thesegreat  men  was  deep  and  energetic, 
and  it  clothed  them  with  so  much  boldness,  that^  although  their 
pretensions  were  humble,  and  they  were  in  a  great  degree  the  crea- 
tures of  circumstances,  as  well  as  of  divine  grace,  yet  they  were 
distinguished  from  their  contemporaries — even  from  the  best  of 
them — ^and  appeared  the  representatives  of  the  ancient  Prophets 
and  Apostles.  Men  felt  that  they  were  the  servants  of  the  Most 
High,  and  earnest  in  declaring  unto  them  the  way  of  salvation. 
Like  the  ministry  of  John  the  Baptist,  theirs  was  a  voice  in  the 
wilderness,  and  while  it  proclaimed  the  Kingdom  of  Heaven,  it 
was  heard  with  do  ordinary  attention. 


XV 

The  reader  who,  piously  curious,  desires  to  trace  the  move- 
ments of  the  Holy  Spirit  on  the  heart,  will  find  no  common 
gratification  in  the  following  records :  he  will  behold  in  so  many 
parts  of  the  great  deep  numerous  symptoms  of  life,  and  will 
conclude  that  thev  are  not  to  be  attributed  to  anv  artificial  or 
partial  heat,  but  to  Divine  power.  The  Spirit  of  God  moved 
upon  the  face  of  the  waters.  There  is,  perhaps,  no  error  to 
which  we  are  more  exposed  than  that  of  supposing  that  the 
originators  of  a  series  of  movements,  d  priori^  saw  the  whole 
process  from  the  beginning,  and  acted  from  plan  rather  than 
from  circumstances.  We  see  the  connexion  which  an  event  has 
with  its  antecedent,  and  therefore  imagine  the  agent  was  well 
acquainted  with  the  tendency  of  the  one  to  effect  the  other. 
Universal  experience,  however,  contradicts  this  inference :  even 
in  the  history  of  men  of  this  world,  whose  plans  are  often  saga- 
ciously formed,  and  whose  object  is  more  definite,  we  see  that 
the  ultimate  success  is  more  owing  to  a  skilful  and  prompt  use 
of  accidents  than  to  the  guidance  of  an  original  design.  No 
philosophy,  independently  of  experience,  could  foresee  the 
branching  and  stately  oak  in  the  acorn. 

To  assert,  therefore,  that  the  Founders  of  Methodism  began 
their  career  by  chalking  out  their  future  operations,  is  to  pay 
a  compliment  to  their  foresight,  at  the  expense  of  trutli,  and 
of  the  continued  superintendence  of  that  Being  who  apportions 
to  fais  servants  their  daily  work,  as  much  as  he  does  their  daily 
bread.  Goo  has  a  plan,  but  he  does  not  expose  it  to  the  work- 
men of  the  temple :  it  is  enough  that  each  knows  what  he  has  to 
do,  and  haw  to  perform  it,  at  the  present  moment. 

The  following  History  will  abundantly  verify  these  sentiments. 

Can  a  sober  man,  however  systematised,  imagine  that  any  thing 

like  the  impression  which  was  made  would  have  been  effected, 

-both  in  our  own  country  and  in  America,  if  the  leaders  of  ithe 

cause — all  of  whom  were  attached  to  the  Established  Ghurch — 

liad  maintained  what  is  called  regularity,  and  a  tame  canonical 

obedience  to  men  who  had  no  spirit  of  enterprise  in  their  char 

racter  ?    Would  the  high- ways  and  hedges  have  been  visited  f-^ 

Would  the  various  branches  of  orthodox  Dissenters  have  been 
b  2 


XVI 


housed  to  co-operation? — Would  lay-ag6ncy  have  been  made 
available  to  the  furtherance  of  the  cause  ? — Would  the  more 
regular  Clergy  themselves  have  been  so  active  and  useful  within 
the  pale  of  their  own  community,  if  there  had  been  no  pressure 
and  provocation  from  without  ? 

Now,  nothing  is  more  evident  than  that  this  irregularity  was 
unintended.  Zeal,  indeed,  was  enkindled,  but  it  would  have 
continued  to  warm  the  churches,  had  it  not  been  dislodged  by 
ecclesiastical  power.  The  fire,  however,  was  inextinguishable  ; 
and  being  forbidden  to  bum  on  the  usual  altar,  it  sought  every 
avenue  of  escape,  and  visited  and  blessed  other  places.  Field- 
preaching  succeeded  rejection  from  the  churches;  and  the 
Countess  of  Huntingdon,  who  thought  only  of  Chaplains  for 
her  preachers,  and  of  Episcopal  ordination  for  her  Students,  was 
at  length  compelled,  very  much  against  her  will,  to  violate  Ec- 
clesiastical order,  and  shelter  herself  and  her  companions  in  zeal 
under  the  Act  of  Toleration.  This  growth  in  the  cause  of  the 
Gospel,  and  extension  of  their  original  design,  characterise  these 
"workers  together  with  God,"  and  secure  all  the  glory  of  the 
plan,  as  it  does  that  of  the  execution,  to  Him  :  while  tliis  view 
of  the  economy  meets  a  thousand  objections  urged  by  the  enemies 
of  vital  godliness  against  this  labour  of  mercy- 

If,  turning  from  the  more  general  to  the  more  particular 
instance,  we  contemplate  the  chief  subject  of  the  following  Bio- 
graphy, we  shall  recognise  the  same  characteristic  of  Divine 
guidance.  How  steadily  and  beautifully  does  grace  advance 
in  the  Countess  !  We  follow  her,  in  the  present  history,  from 
the  girl  of  nine  years  of  age,  impressed  with  solemn  thought  and 
purposes  on  witnessing  a  funeral,  through  a  series  of  changes,  till 
we  mark  an  elevation  of  spirit  truly  and  sublimely  Christian — 
which  rises  above  the  splendour  of  a  Court;  which  dares  to  allow 
zeal  to  act — first  in  visiting  the  poor — thenin  opening  the  drawing- 
room  for  noble  hearers  of  the  Gospel — then  in  the  employment 
of  laymen  and  in  providing  chapels  for  the  accommodation  of  the 
multitude— even  although  those  chapels  were  to  be  denominated 
conventicles  !  The  Child  becomes  a  Mother  in  Israel  indeed^ 
and  theologians  ^of  the  first-rate  powers  feel  it  a  privilege  to 


xvu 

learn  the  way  of  God  more  perfectly  from  the  lips  and  the  pen 
of  this  saintly  woman. 

No  contemplative  mind  will  peruse  The  Life  and  Times 
OF  THE  Countess  of  Huntingdon  without  noticing  the  power 
and  the  beauty  of  divine  grace,  when  brought  in  contact  with 
a  vigorous  mind,  elevated  in  society  by  nobility  and  fortune. 
That  energj'  which,  unsanctified,  gives  obstinacy  to  prejudice  and 
pride  to  vanity,  when  under  the  control  of  "  the  meekness  of 
wisdom"  leads  to  boldness  of  investigation,  the  avowal  of  Evan- 
gelical truth,  and  to  humility,  which,  in  the  sight  of  God,  is  of 
great  price. 

It  will  be  difficult,  indeed,  to  find  a^i  instance  of  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation  brighter  than  that  here  exhibited.  A  woman, 
a  noble  personage,  a  favourite  at  Court,  the  wife  of  a  nobleman 
who  only  tolerated  and  aided  her  zeal  as  he  was  won  over  by  her 
chaste  conversation  ;  a  widow,  and  at  times  much  affiicted  in  her 
children — living  too  in  an  age  when  the  gaiety  and  superstition 
of  the  nation  were  scarcely  disturbed  by  the  sober  and  reasonable 
voice  of  truth — every  disadvantage  overcome,  and  a  meek  yet 
firm  profession  made  of  love  to  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

Nor  is  the  providence  less  conspicuous  than  the  grace  of 
God  in  the  Life  of  the  Countess,  as  related  to  her  Times. 
There  was,  needed,  a  hallowed  work  in  progress  among  the  poor 
and  middle  classes  in  society,  but  the  means  of  reaching  these, 
which  the  necessity  of  the  case  directed,  such  as  preaching  in 
fields  and  in  barns,  were  not  likely  to  command  the  attention  of 
the  rich  and  the  noble.  There  nedeed,  therefore,  an  instrument 
to  bring  the  Gospel  into  friendly  contact  with  the  highest  ranks. 
This  instrument  was  the  Countess.  There  was  an  attraction 
and  an  influence  about  her  which  were  felt  by  many  of  the 
great  in  an  extraordinary  degree;  and  not  only  the  courtly 
Chesterfield,  the  political  Duchess  of  Marlborough,  the 
gay  and  frivolous  Nash,  but  the  infidel  Bolingbroke,  paid 
her  marked  and  sincere  homage,  and  listened  to  the  preachers 
whom  she  patronized  and  commended.  Many  will,  doubt- 
less, be  astonished,  on  reading  the  following  pages,  to  find  so 
large  a  number  of  distinguished  personages  brought  by  this 


XVUl 

zealous  wonicin  to  hear  the  word  of  truth,  as  well  in  the 
despised  conventicle  as  in  her  own  habitation.  It  was  thus,  by 
applying  the  discharging-rod  to  the  two  extremes,  that  a  shock 
was  given,  and  that  circulation  and  sensibility  were  effected 
in  the  social  body.  Many  of  the  rich  and  more  of  the  poor  met 
together — and  their  place  of  meeting  was  the  foot  of  the  Cross. 
How  wisely  God  adapts  his  agents  to  his  work  ! 

The  personal  character  of  the  Countess  of  Huntingdon  will 
be  best  seen  in  the  General  History  of  her  Life  and  Times :  she 
stands,  indeed,  so  connected  with  almost  all  which  was  good  in  the 
last  century,  that  the  character  of  the  age,  so  far  as  religion  is 
concerned,  was  in  some  measure  her  own.  It  is  not  insinuated, 
that  she  alone  impressed  that  character  on  the  Church,  but  that 
she  entirely  sympathized  with  it,  and  was  not  a  whit  behind  the 
foremost  in  affection  for  souls  and  zeal  for  God — in  spirituality 
of  mind  and  fervour  of  devotion — in  contrivance  and  energy  for 
the  extension  of  the  Gospel — in  a  large  and  disinterested  soul. 
If  she  did  not  appear  as  the  public  advocate  of  the  cause,  it  was 
because  a  woman  is  forbidden  to  speak  in  the  Church ;  and  if 
she  did  not  more  excel  in  literary  productions,  it  was  because 
she  knew  her  proper  talent — that  she  was  rather  fitted  to  think 
with  vigour  and  comprehensiveness,  than  to  marshal  words  to 
please  a  critical  review.  She  never,  indeed,  seems  to  have 
thought  of  the  manner  and  structure  of  her  sentences,  but  only 
of  giving  utterance  to  the  sentiments — always  pious,  frequently 
burning — which  filled  her  breast.  Those  who  may  be  inclined 
to  blame  her  letters,  as  deficient  in  smoothness  and  perspicuity, 
will  do  well  to  remember  that  they  were  not  intended  for  the 
publiceye;  they  will  also  admit,  that  some  minds  of  a  high  order 
and  especially  endowed  with  a  power  over  others,  are  remarkable 
for  an  abruptness  of  expression  which  sometimes  involves  con- 
fusion :  of  this  Cromwell  was  a  striking  instance.  The  mental 
powers  of  Lady  Huntingdon  were  anything  but  feeble.  No  lady, 
however  pious  and  exalted  by  rank,  could  have  commanded  such 
respect  as  she  did,  unless  in  the  possession  of  intellectual  supe- 
riority. The  sincerity  of  her  piety  and  the  ardour  of  her  zeal 
were  felt  by  the  first  personages  of  the  land,  as  they  were  com- 


XIX 

bined  with  the  force  of  her  understanding :  and  it  is  believed 
that  the  recognition  of  this  fact,  in  the  following  Work,  will,  by 
all  impartial  readers^  be  considered  a  sufficient  refutation  of 
Dr.  Southey's  poetic  imaginings  of  her  mental  weakness  and, 
indeed,  insanity  1 

It  will,  likewise,  be  seen,  that  the  vigour  of  the  Countess's 
mind  and  the  boldness  of  her  zeal  were  in  perfect  keeping  with 
the  feminine  graces.  She  was  not  an  Elizabeth.  The  lady, 
the  friend  of  the  poor,  the  wife,  the  mother,  the  sister,  the  widow 
— all  private  and  domestic  relations — were  adorned  by  her  ele- 
gance and  affection,  her  meekness  of  wisdom  and  boundless 
kindness,  her  chaste  and  winning  conversation.  The  reader 
will  find  it  difficult  to  judge  whether  she  appears  to  the  greater 
advantage  when  co-operating  with  the  spirits  which  were  effect- 
ing a  change  throughout  the  moral  world,  or  when  quietly 
moving  iQ  domestic  and  social  life. 

The  circumstances,  too,  in  which  she  was  placed,  were  favour- 
able to  the  development  of  her  character.  Light  enough  shone 
on  the  professing  Church  to  render  the  darkness  visible :  the 
efforts  of  the  Oxford-band,  with  those  of  other  pious  ministers 
of  various  denominations,  both  in  England  and  in  Scotland,  had 
brought  the  deadness  of  merely  formal  Christianity  into  juxta- 
position with  the  living  truth  of  the  Gospel,  and  the  Countess 
saw  the  contrast,  and  her  eye  affected  her  heart.  She  wept, 
she  vowed,  she  acted.  She  determined  to  throw  all  the  weight 
of  her  influence  into  the  scale  of  the  Gospel ;  and  while  con- 
siderations of  sex,  of  the  disposition  and  views  of  her  beloved 
lord,  of  the  rank  she  held,  and  which  she  was  so  well  qualified 
to  support,  would  have  restrained  an  ordinary  mind  of  common 
piety  from  public  interference — these  very  circumstances  to  her 
appeared  to  be  talents  of  great  worth,  and  she  was  excited  to 
employ  them  to  the  greatest  advantage.  She  beheld  the  rude 
and  cruel  treatment  which  holy  men  endured,  as  well  from  the 
educated  and  wealthy  as  from  the  ignorant  and  poor,  from 
magistrates  and  ecclesiastics  as  much  as  from  private  individuals, 
and  for  what  ?  for  promulgating  the  truth — truth  which  she  felt 
was  essential  to  human  salvation — and  she  generously  stepped 


XX 


orward  to  their  defence  and  encouragement.  She  had  magna- 
nimity enough  to  break  the  ranks  of  her  order,  and  attraction 
enough  to  induce  many  to  follow  her  example.  She  was  as  per- 
severing as  she  was  courageous ;  and  you  see  her,  having  passed 
the  Rubicon,  steadily  advancing  to  the  Capitol.  She  remem- 
bered Lot's  wife ;  and  no  opposition,  no  unforeseen  difficulty,  no 
associations  necessary  to  the  furtherance  of  her  work,  however, 
plebeian,  could  induce  her  to  look  backward.  When,  therefore 
it  was  necessary  to  remove  out  of  the  drawing-room  into 
the  chapel,  she  did  remove  ;  and  when  she  could  no  longer 
conduct  the  services  which  an  Ecclesiastical  regularity,  to  which 
she  was  attached  to  the  utmost  reasonable  extent,  she  braved 
the  reproach  of  the  conventicle  ;  and,  as  the  demand  for  help 
increased,  while  clerical  labourers  were  few,  she  went  before 
even  Wesley  in  taking  advantage  of  lay-agency.  She  followed 
where,  in  her  judgment,  God  was  pleased  to  direct;  and,  secluded 
from  her  former  elegant  associations,  she  ultimately  gave  up 
herself  entirely  to  the  direction  of  her  College  and  of  her  more 
immediate  Connexion,  and  to  the  most  really  catholic  co-opera- 
tion with  all  who  loved  the  Lord  Jesus  in  sincerity. 

The  world  has,  perhaps,  never  seen  a  finer  instance  of  the 
power  of  divine  grace,  in  enabling  the  mind  to  rise  above  all  the 
unchristian  restraints  of  state  etiquette,  the  prejudice  of  early 
Ecclesiastical  associations,  and  the  spirit  of  party  and  sectarian- 
ism. The  last  triumph  will  be  viewed  by  some  who  understand 
human  nature  as  the  greatest  of  the  '.three  ;  for  it  is  easier  to 
shake  off  the  trammels  of  rank  and  of  education,  than  to  merore 
the  individuality  of  selfishness  in  *the  general  cause  of  souls  and 
of  Christ.  In  this  fine  characteristic,  to  the  glory  of  her  age 
let  it  be  recorded,  the  Countess  met  with  much  sympathy.  Her 
Life  and  Times  will  prove  how  grand,  how  sublime,  were  the 
views  of  most  of  the  distinguished  agents  in  the  work  of  God  at 
that  stirring  period  With  the  exception  of  the  leader  of  the 
great  section  of  Methodism — whose  intention  to  organize  a  dis- 
tinct body  we  do  not  blame — all  seemed  to  be  so  intent  on  the 
general  good  of  the  Church,  that  they  overlooked  the  advantage 
of  their  own  particular  denominations,  and  were  too  eager  to 


XXI 


pluck  men  as  brands  from  the  burning,  to  spend  time  and  energy 
in  discussing  questions  of  comparative  non-importance.  It  was, 
indeed,  to  be  expected,  that  a  time  of  greater  leisure  and  calmness 
would  follow,  and  that  then  an  opportunity  would  be  furnished 
of  investigating  the  merits  of  the  respective  modes  of  worship 
and  forms  of  government.  We  blame  not  this  exercise  when 
kept  in  a  subordinate  station  ;  but  who,  possessed  of  a  shred  of 
the  Countess's  mantle,  does  not  weep  over  the  state  of 
truly  Evangelical  parties,  in  the  present  day  of  strife !  So 
far  from  combining  their  powers  to  oppose  and  overturn  In- 
fidelity and  ^Idolatry,  they  more  than  waste  a  large  portion  of 
them  in  direct  contention  with  each  other.  This  is  an  unholy 
warfare  indeed — a  species  of  fratricide.  What,  indeed,  is 
Churchmanship  or  Dissent  compared  with  the  salvation  of 
the  soul?  The  spirits  of  the  noble  group  encircling  the 
truly  catholic  Selina  return  an  answer — "  JVhat,  indeed  T 

Should  the  perusal  of  the  following  pages  enkindle  no  breast 

into  zeal  for  Christ,  they  will  certainly  fail  of  their  reward ;  for 

we  can  scarcely  conceive  of  any  thing,  next  to  the  history  of  our 

blessed  Lord  and  his  Apostles,  more  likely,  under  the  divine 

blessing,  to  set  the  heart  on  fire  than  the  facts  here  recorded. 

Zeal,  glowing,  active,  untiring  zeal,  animates  all  the  story,  and 

forms  the  living  soul  of  the  entire  body :  and  while,  on  the  one 

hand,  we  behold  how  God  honours  zeal  in  his  servants,  in  making 

it  tell  so  powerfully  on  the  world  ;  on  the  other  hand,  we  see  the 

proper  workings  of  the  doctrines  of  the  Cross,  and  how  they 

consecrate  the  affections  and  form  the  true  philanthropist.    Let 

the  world  be  brought  under  the  action  of  the  same  principles, 

and  what  a  scene  of  brotherly  kindness  and  charitv,  of  mutual 

zeal,  of  millennial  happiness,  will  it  exhibit ! 

The  publication  of  the  Life  and  Times  of  the  Countess 
OF  Huntingdon  will  appear  to  many  very  opportune,  as  a 
spirit  of  Missionary  enterprise  has  been  conferred  on  the 
Churches,  and  success  has  attended,  in  an  extraordinary  degree, 
the  efforts  which  have  been  made  in  the  South  Sea  Islands,*  so 
dear  to  the  heart  of  this  zealous  and  almost  prophetic  woman ; 

♦  See  WiUiwn*8  «*  Mismnary  Enierprize$,'' 


and,  as  the  Lord  has  put  it  into  the  hearts  of  many  to  seek, 
with  growing  earnestness,  the  revival  of  this  work  at  home. 
Those  who  look  upon  meetings  of  Christians  for  especial 
prayer  for  the  Holy  Ghost,  or  upon  public  exertions  in  en- 
deavouring to  impress  the  conscience  and  win  over  the  heart  to 
Christ,  with  surprise,  as  though  some  new  thing  had  happened, 
will  stand  corrected  as  they  find  how  the  present  movements 
were  anticipated  by  those  holy  personages  whose  lives  are 
here  recorded.  Had  their  successors  in  the  great  work  been 
warmed  with  their  zeal,  and  secured  the  aid  of  the  Almighty 
with  prayer,  united  and  continuous  are  theirs,  the  Church  would 
have  presented  a  diflferent  appearance.  We  only,  therefore, 
seem  to  be  returning  to  the  piety  and  fervour  of  the  days  of  old, 
when  we  become  most  anxious  to  work  out  our  principles  and 
to  win  souls  to  our  Divine  Redeemer.  The  rise  and  success  of 
Methodism  in  all  its  sections  are  the  models  of  revival  meetings, 
and  an  encouragement  to  engage  in  them. 

Those  persons  who  may  look  on  the  gracious  principle  of  the 
Gospel  with  fear  or  disapprobation,  will  remember,  that  if  the 
sacred  band  to  which  these  pages  refer  did,  in  their  zeal  for  tho 
Gospel  of  the  Grace  of  God,  ride  over  the  forms  of  dull  and  life- 
less Ethics,  which  had  been  so  generally  adopted ;  and  if  they 
did  offend  the  vicious  and  the  self-righteous,  their  object  was  as 
pure  as  it  was  benevolent.  They  carried  with  them  "  letters  of 
commendation  "  in  the  holiness  of  their  own  conduct,  and  per- 
sonified the  apostolic  sentiment,  that  **  Grace  reigns  through 
righteousness."  Let  any  man  of  impartial  mind  read  the  fol- 
lowing Biography,  and  then  say  that  the  tendency  of  a  gratui- 
tous salvation  is  licentious.  Nor  could  such  a  leader,  however 
attached  to  one  of  the  great  sections  of  Methodism,  with  any 
fairness,  charge  the  followers  of  the  other  leader  as,  a  body, 
either  with  an  undermining  of  moral  requirements,  or  with  a 
rejection  of  the  righteousness  which  is  of  God  by  faith.  Let 
facts  and  not  a  priori  reasoning,  guide  the  judgment,  and  it  will 
decide,  that  the  doctrines  of  Faith  are  doctrines  which  purify 
the  heart ;  and  that  the  essential,  plain,  scriptural  statements, 
and  belief  of  those  doctrines,  and  not  scholastic  and  metaphysi- 


UUl 

cal  refinementSf  are  the  great  instruments,  in  the  economy  of 
our  salTatioU)  of  transforming  the  mind,  and  of  adorning  the 
character  with  the  Christian  graces.  The  day  is  gone  by,  we 
trust,  or  at  least  it  ought  to  have  passed  away,  when  either 
party  shall  condemn  the  other  for  deductions  which  are  not 
admitted ;  when  the  Calvinist  shall  charge  the  Wesleyan  with 
denying  a  sinner's  justification  in  the  sight  of  God,  by  faith 
alone  in  Jesus  Christ, — and  when  the  Wesleyan  shall  teach 
his  hearers  to  identify  the  Calvinistic  scheme,  as  it  is  gene- 
rally received,  with  the  monstrous  practical  error  of  Anti- 
nomianism.  "  My  little  children,  love  one  another."  Perhaps 
few,  since  the  days  of  the  catholic  and  amiable  Apostle  John, 
have  repeated  these  words  with  more  sincerity  and  emphasis 
then  Selina,  Countess  of  Huntingdon.  She  chose  her  side 
of  the  controversy — and,  we  think,  with  reason ;  but  however 
strongly  those  writers  might  have  expressed  themselves  whom, 
on  the  whole,  she  approved,  and  whatever  transient  alienations 
may  have  taken  place,  they  were  clouds  passing  before  the  sun : 
the  habit  of  her  mind  was  Christian  affection,  and  her  prayer 
was  for  grace  to  be  with  all  them  that  love  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  in  sincerity. 

A  rigid  examiner  and  critic  of  the  following  papers  may,  per- 
haps, be  able  to  detect  some  variations,  at  different  periods  of 
her  life,  in  the  minuter  parts  of  the  Countess's  creed,  as  well  as 
in  her  attachments — a  temporary  leaning  towards  mysticism,  or 
towards  legality,  or  towards  hyper- Calvinism ;  but  these  aberra- 
tions were  kept  within  bounds,  and  mutually  collected  each  other. 
He  will,  however,  never  find  a  want  of  true  Catholicity,  or  the 
temperament  of  piety  low  and  frigid.  The  fervour  of  her  Chris- 
tian affections  would  not  allow  her  to  be  indifferent  and  heartless ; 
her  strong  sense  and  reverence  for  the  holy  Scriptures  preserved 
her  from  the  practical  errors  of  the  mystics  ;  and  her  views  of  the 
Saviour  were  too  enlarged  to  admit  of  self-righteous  pride ; 
while  her  concern  for  the  glory  of  God  and  the  salvation  of  man- 
kind was  too  abiding  and  active  to  suffer  her  to  be  otherwise  than 
"  zealous  of  good  works."  She  practically  as  well  as  theoretically 
confessed  her  imperfection  and  sinfulness,  whilst  she  rejoiced  in 


XXIV 

the  all-sufficiency  of  God  her  Saviour  ;  and  of  no  one  perhaps 
whose  name  adorns  the  history  of  the  Church  of  Christ  can 
it  be  said  with  greater  propriety,  than  of  this  extraordinary  Lady, 
"  Many  daughters  have  done  virtuously,  but  thou  excellest  them 
all.  Favour  is  deceitful,  and  beauty  is  vain ;  but  a  woman  that 
feareth  the  Lord,  she  shall  be  praised.  Give  her  of  the  fruit 
of  her  hands ;  and  let  her  own  works  praise  her  in  the  gates." 


J.  K.  FOSTER. 


Cheshunt  College, 

April  IJtb,  1839. 


CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER  L 

Antiquity  of  tlie  Shirley  Family.  Saxon  Origin.  Norman  Dignities.  Royal  Alliances. 
Foreign  Crowns.  British  Coronets.  The  Clanricardcs.  Battle  of  Aghrim.  The  Parkers. 
Thu  Lord  High  Chancellor  found  guilty.  The  Levinges.  Irish  Alliances.  Birth  of  Lady 
Selina.  Her  Early  Character.  Fhrst  Roligious  Lnpressions.  The  Orave  of  Youth.  Piety. 
Private  Prayer.  Fashionahle  Life.  Marriage.  The  Huntingdon  Family.  Its  Ancestry. 
The  Earl  of  Huntingdon.  His  Character.  **Tearsof  the  Muses."  Self-righteousness.  The 
Methodists.  Lady  Margaret  Hastings.  The  Light  of  Religious  Truth.  Force  of  Example. 
Conyersion. 

CHAPTER  U. 

Lord  Huntingdon.  The  Bishop  of  Gloucester.  Mr.  Whitefield's  preaching.  Its  effects. 
Dr.  Southey.  Dr.  Hurd.  Archbishop  Seeker.  First  Methodist  Society.  Lady  Anne  Frank- 
land.  Lord  Scarborough.  Dr.  Young.  Lady  Fanny  Shirley.  Mrs.  Temple.  Lady  Mary 
Wortloy  Montague.  LadyTownshcnd.  Mr.  Pope.  Mr.  Ingluun.  Mr.  Charles  Wesley.  Mlaa 
Robintion.  Lord  Ijisbumc.  The  House  of  Lords.  Hammond  the  Poet.  SomerviUe  tho 
Poet.  Sarah  Duchess  of  Marlborough.  Anecdotes.  Duchess  of  Buckingham.  Anecdotes. 
Duchess  of  (^ueensbury.    Lord  Orford.    Lady  Hinchlnbroke. 

CHAPTER  HI. 

Early  Methodists.  Lay  Preaching.  Mr.  Bowers.  Mr.  Ccnnick.  Itinerants.  Ordination. 
Mr.  Maxfield.  Mr.  Wesley^s  opinion  of  his  calL  Mr.  Wesley's  sanction.  Bishop  of  Dcrry. 
Fetter-lane  Society.  Conduct  of  the  Bishops.  Opposition  witliout.  Bickerings.  Shaw. 
The  Moravians.  S<q;mration  in  Fetter-lane.  First  Division.  Tlie  r><>cuty  in  Moorfields. 
Enthusiasm.  Pluralities.  Bishop  Burnet.  Mrs.  Mitchell.  Anccdute.  Mr.  Charles  Wesley 
and  the  Moravians.  David  Taylor.  General  Baptists.  Mr.  Bennett.  Grace  Murray.  John 
Nelson. 

CHAPTER  IV. 

The  Clergy.  Mr.  Simpson.  Mr.  Wesley's  Opinion  of  him.  Tho  One  Wrong  Principle. 
Mr.  Graves.  His  Recantation.  His  Explanatory  Declaration.  Lady  Huntingdon's  Schools. 
Lord  Huntingdon's  Character.  Miss  Cooper:  her  Death.  Letters.  The  Poor.  Death  of 
Mr.  Jones.  The  poor  Penitent's  Death-bed.  Mr.  Wesley's  preaching  on  his  Father's  Tomb. 
Donnington  Park.  Lady  Abney.  Dr.  Watts.  *' The  Grave."  Dr.Blolr.  Letters.  Colonel 
Gardiner.    His  Marvellous  Conversion.    Letters. 

CHAPTER  V. 

Lay-Proachcrs.  Mr.  Wesley's  Defence  of  them.  Converted  CIci:gy.  Deatli  of  Lady 
Huntingdon's  Sons,  George  and  Fcrdinando  Hastings.  First  Methodist  Conference.  Dr. 
Doddridge.  Letters  from  Lady  Huntingdon.  Mr.  Jones.  The  Pretender.  Lord  Carteret 
Geoige  II.  Death  of  Colonel  Crardiner.  Letters  to  Mr.  Wesley,  Dr.  Doddridge,  and  Charles 
Wcstoy. 

CHAPTER  VI. 

Death  of  the  Earl  of  Huntingdon.  His  Lordship's  Epitaph.  Letters  from  Sir  John  Thorold« 
Lady  Huntingdon's  Piety.  Letter  to  Dr.  Doddridge.  Lady  Kilmorey.  Duchess  of  Somerset. 
Welsh  Preachers.  Lady  Frances  Hastings.  Mrs.  Edwin.  Lady  Huntingdon's  adherence  to 
th8  Church  of  England.  Letter  from  Dr.  Wfttts  to  Dr.  Doddridge. 


XXVI 

CHAPTER   Vn. 

Mr.  Wliitcfield  arrives  in  England.  Preaches  at  Lady  Iluntingdon'a.  Letters.  Lord 
Chesterfield.  Lord  Bolingbrokc.  Anecdotes  of  Bfr.  Whitcfield's  Preaching.  Appointed 
Chaplain  to  Lady  Huntingdon.  Christian  Soldiers.  Bishop  of  Exeter.  Colonel  Gumley. 
Mrs.  Edwin.  Lord  St  John.  Lady  Suffolk.  The  Court  Beauties.  Lord  Chesterfield.  Mar- 
quis of  Lothian.  Lady  Mary  Hamilton.  Anecdotes.  Lady  Townshend.  English  Nobility 
at  Lady  Huntingdon's.  Sir  Watkin  Williams  Wynn.  Persecution  of  the  Welsh  Methodists. 
Liberal  Conduct  of  the  Government.    Marmaduke  Owynne,  Bsq. 

CHAPTER  Vm. 

Dr.  Gibbons.   Dr.  Gill.    Mr.  Daracott.    The  Young  Lord  Huntingdon.     Lord  Chesterfield. 
The  Jews.     German  Minister.     An  Impostor.     David  Levi.    Lady  Fanny  Shirley.    Bfr. 
Whitefield  and  Mr.  Wesley.     Ashby-plaoe.    Mr.  Baddeloy.     Lady  Huntingdon's  Ulness.  / 
Lady  Anne  Hastings.    Mr.  Hervey.   Bishop  of  Exeter.    Mr.  Thompson.    Duke  ^of  Somerset 
Mr.  Moses  Bruce.    Bishop  Lavington. 

CHAPTER  IX. 

Mr.  Romaine.  Earthquake  In  London.  Mr.  Romalne  appointed  Chaplain  to  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon. Ashby-plaoe.  Dr.  Stonhouso.  Dr.  Akenskte.  New  Jersey  College.  Governor 
Belcher.  President  Burr.  Dissenting  Ministers.  Dr.  Doddridge.  Education  of  Ministers. 
Mrs.  Hester  Gibbon.  Mr.  Law.  Mr.  Whitefield^  succesB  at  Rotherham.  Lord  Lyttletoo. 
Mr.  Hervey.   Dr.  Doddridge. 

CHAPTER    X. 

Mr.  Whitefield  at  Ashby.  Mr.  Moses  Browne.  Mr.  Martin  Madan.  Lady  Frances  Has- 
tings. Dr.  Stonhouse.  Mr.  Hartley.  Death  of  the  Prince  of  Wales.  Anecdote.  Lady 
Charlotte  Edwin.  Dr.Aysoongh.  Lord  Lyttleton.  Death  of  Lord  Bolingbroke.  Dr.  Trapp. 
Dr.  Church.    Anecdotes. 

CHAPTER  XL 

Mr.  Whitefield  visits  Scotland.  Dr.  Erskine  ;and  Dr.  Robertson.  Scotch  Nobility.  Bir. 
and  Lady  Jane  Ninuno.  Letter  to  Lady  Huntingdon.  Mr.  Wardrobe.  Hr.  Hervey :  his 
**  Theron  and  Aspasio."  Letters  to  Lady  Huntingdon.  Lady  Fanny  Shirley.  Prince  and 
Princess  of  Wales.  Mr.  Hervey*s  Method  of  Preadiiiig.  Letter  from  Lady  Huntingdon.  Mr. 
Steward.    Lady  Hastings. 

CHAPTER  Xn. 


; 


History  of  Mr.  Whitefield's  Tabernacle  and  TottenlMm  Oo«t  Chapel.  WhiteAdd  In 
London.  Mr.  Broughton.  Countess  of  Hertford.  Fetter-lane.  Mr.  Oennick.  Mofliedist 
Society.  Tabernacle  commenced.  Welsh  Preachers.  Moorfidds.  Lay-Preacherai  NobiUty 
at  the  Tabemado.  Opposition  of  the  Dissenters.  Anecdotes  of  Dr.  Watts.  Lady  Hmting- 
don  anc  the  Moravians.  Sir  Thomas  and  Lady  Abney.  Tabernacle  opened.  Long-acre 
Chapel.  Hon.  Hume  Campbell.  Tottenham-court  Chapel  opened.  Mr.  Edward  Shuter. 
Foote  the  Player.  The  Minor.  Lord  Halifax.  Duke  of  Grafton.  Mr.  Fox.  Mr.  Pitt 
Mr.  Rowland  HUl.  Captain  Joes.  Mr.  Matthew  Wilks.  Mr.  Kn^fat.  Mr.  Hyatt  Mr. 
Whitefield's  WiU. 

CHAPTER  Xm. 

Mr.  Yenn  begins  to  aiiraot  notice.  Revival  el  Beligfon  In  the  Eetablisbed  CIrarch  and 
among  tho  Methodists.  By  whom  first  oonatMSioed.  Mr.  Team's  aoqaatetanco  wMh  Bfr. 
Broughton,  one  of  the  Original  Methodists.  Dr.  Haweis.  Mr.  Law.  Illness  of  Mr.  Venn. 
Accompanies  Mr.  Whitefield  to  Bristol.  Kcmains  with  Lady  Huntingdon  at  Clifton. 
Letter  from  Mr.  >Vhitefield.  Letter  to  BIr.  Venn  from  Lady  Huntingdon.  Mr.  Whitefield  s 
Letter  to  Mr.  Venn.  Oxfbrd  Students.  Dr.  Haweis.  Mr.  Whitefield's  Letter  to  Dr.  . 
Hawela  Convicts.  Pteaddng  to  the  NoUUty  at  Lady  Hnntlngdon'a  Handel.  CMardinL  v 
Musftoal  Composera. 

CHAPTER  XIV. 

Lady  Huntingdon  and  Bfr.  Fletcher.  Introdnotiett  to  Lady  Huntingdon  by  BIr.  Wesley. 
Bishop  of  L<mdon.  Letter  to  BIr.  Charles  Wesley.  Bfr.  Fletcher  preaches  and  celebrates  the 
oommunion  at  Lady  HuntiagdonV  Letter  to  Bfr.  C  Wesley.  Letter  to  Lady  Huntingdon. 
BIr.  FMoker  appointed  Vkar  of  Madely.  Writes  to  Lady  Hnnthigdon  and  Bfr.  Chsrles 
Wesley.  TliMa  Jir.  BsRMge.  Letter  to  Lady  HuniiagAon.  luteotim  to  Madely.  SoQcesi 
ofhiiministiy.  Letter  to  Laiy 


i 


xxvu 

CHAPTER  XV. 

Riso  of  Methodism  in  Yorkshire.  Mr.  Ingham.  Count  Zinzcndorff.  Mr.  Dclomotte.  / 
3Ir.  Okeley.  Mr.  Rogers.  Letter  from  Mr.  AVhitefield.  Tlie  United  Brethren.  Mr.  Bfttty, 
Lady  Betty  Hastings.  Ledstone-Hall.  Mr.  Ingham's  marriage  ^^ith  Lady  Margaret  Hastings. 
Cnmit  Zinzendorff  visits  Yorkshire.  Moravian  settlement  at  Fulneck.  John  Nelson.  Mr. 
Whitcfield's  Letter  to  Mr.  Ingham.  Mr.  Grimsliaw.  Lord  and  Lady  Huntiiigdon  visit 
Lodstone-Hall.  Mr.  Charles  Wesley.  Mr.  Graves  encourages  John  Nelson.  Persecution. 
Provincial  Magistrates.  John  Nelson  taken  to  Prison.  Liberated  by  the  influence  of  Lady 
Huntingdon.  Lord  Sunderland.  Letter  from  Lady  Huntingdon  to  Mr.  Ingham.  The  Vicar 
ofColne.  Mr.  Grimshaw^s  opinions.  Moravian  Nobles.  JohnCennlck.  Mr.  Ingham  leaves 
the  Moravians.    Jolin  Allen. 

CHAPTER  XVL 

Mr.  Whitefield  returns  to  England.  Writes  to  Mr.  Ingham.  Visits  Yorkshire,  i^y 
Huntingdon  in  Yorluhire.  Extraordinary  Occurrence.  Mr.  Graves.  Mr.  Milner.  Mr. 
Grimshawe.  Conference  at  Leeds.  Mr.  Inghiun  is  chosen  General  Overseer.  Mr.  Charles 
Wesley.  Mr.  Whitefield  at  Haworth.  Inghamite  Churches.  Church  Dltoipline.  Ingham- 
Ite  Preachers.  Mr.  Newton  visits  Yorkshire.  His  letter  to  Mr.  Wesley.  Anecdote  of  hit 
Preaching  at  Leeds.  Mr.  Romaine*8  opinion  of  the  Inghamite  Churches.  Lad}*  Huntingdon 
at  Aberford.  Mr.  Romaine  preaches  in  Mr.  Ingham's  Chapels.  Mr.  George  Burder.  Mr. 
Romaine  at  Haworth.    Mr.  Grimahaw.    Sandeman*s  Lettov.    Church  Government. 

CHAPTER  XVn. 

Mr.  Venn  removed  to  Huddersfield.  Mr.  Burnett.  Lord  Dartmouth.  Dr.  Conyers. 
Visitation  Sermon.  Mr.  Thornton.  Lady  Huntingdon  visits  Yorkshire.  Mr.  Romaine. 
Mr.  Wesley.  Mr.  Madan.  Letters  from  Dr.  Conyers  to  Lady  Huntingdon.  Letter  from  Mr» 
Venn.  Mr.  Titus  Knight  Letter  from  Mr.  Grimshaw.  Death  of  Mr.  Qrimshaw.  Letter 
from  Mr.  Venn.  Letter  from  Dr.  Conyers.  Letter  from  Mr.  Fletcher.  Lady  Huntingdon, 
with  Messrs.  Townsend  and  Fletcher,  visit  Huddersfield.  Illness  of  Lady  Huntingdon. 
Mr.  Whitefield  in  Yorkshire.  William  Shent  Mr.  Venn*s  Irregularities  Mrs.  Han- 
nah More.  Defence  of  Mr.  Venn.  Letter  from  Mr  Fletcher.  Mrs  Deane.  Lady  Irvine. 
Mr.  Occum,  the  Indixm  Preacher.    Captain  Scott.    The  London  Shunamite.    Mr.  Wilson. 

•CHAPTER  XVm. 

Melancholy  state  of  Mr.  Ingham.  Lady  Huntingdon  and  Mr.  Venn.  Illneas  and  death 
of  Lady  Margaret  Ingham.  Letter  from  Mr.  Ingham.  Letter  from  Mr.  Romaine.  Mr. 
Ingham*8  Treatise  on  the  Faith  and  Hope  of  the  GospeL  Mr.  Riddell.  Lady  Huntingdon 
sends  Students  to  Yorkshire.  Letter  from  Mr.  Riddell.  Mr.  Joseph  Milner  of  Hull  attends 
Lady  Huntingdon's  Preachers.  Begins  to  preach  the  Ctospel.  Mr.  Myler.  Letter  from  Lady 
Huntingdon  to  Mr.  Romaine.  Mr.  Tyler*s  labours  at  Hull.  Letter  from  Lady  Huntingdon 
to  Mr.  Milner.  York.  Mr.  Wren,  hettar  from  Lady  Huntingdon.  Letter  from  Mr-  Wren. 
Mr.  Olascott    Mr.  Wells.    Mr.Powley.    Lady  Huntingdon's  Chapel  at  Y'ork 

CHAPTER  XIX. 

Death  of  the  Hon.  Henry  Haatings.  Lady  Huntingdon's  exertions  at  Brighton.  Joseph 
WaU.  Mr.  Whitefleld's  first  visit  to  Brighton.  Lady  Huntingdon  sells  her  Jewels.  The 
Chapel  opened  by  Mr.  Madan.  3Ir.  Romaine.  OatholL  Captain  Soott  Anecdote.  Old 
Abraham.  Letters  from  Mr.  Fletcher  and  Mr.  Romaine.  Christian  Perfection.  Mr.  Max- 
field  and  Mr.  BeU.  Letter  from  Mr.  Romaine.  Mr.  Madan.  Letters  from  Messrs  Berridge, 
Romaine,  and  Venn.    Mr.  Jones  (of  St.  Saviour's). 

CHAPTER  XX. 

Dr.  Haweis.    Mr.  Romaine  driven  from  the  Chapel  of  the  Broadway.    Lord  Dartmouth. 
Letters  from  Messrs.  Romaine   and  Conyers.    Sin  lees  Perfection.    Letters  from  Messrs.   v 
Romaine  and  Wesley.    Enimna,  Bishop  of  Arcadia.   Mr.  Toplady.  Letters  from  McssrB.V^ 
Fletcher  and  Berridge.    Death  of  Lady  Selina  Hastings.    Colonel  Hastings.    Account  of 
Lady  Selina'a  death.    Letters  from  Lord  Dartmouth.    Mr.  Venn.    Mr.  Fletcher.    Mr.  Bor- 
ridga.   Oothall  Chiqwl.    Letters  from  Mr.  Berridge.    Mr.  Venn*B  Complete  Duty  of  Man. 
Letters  from  Mesars  Venn  and  Berridge 

CHAPTER  XXI. 

Mr.  Romaine.  Leoturodilp  at  fit  Dunstan's.  Lord  Mansfield.  Darkness  visible.  The 
Biibop  offttefboroinh.    TopolaBt  deotion.  St.  Ann's,  BladdHsrs.    Frohatloii 


XXVIU 

Clonlost.  Canvasaing.  Scrutiny.  Second  Election.  Suit  in  Chanocry.  Gratitude  of  Lady 
ttulAingdon.  Mr.  Jeflsc  Mr.  Shirley.  Mr.  Romainu*s  views  of  hiH  preferment.  Lcwch. 
Lady  Huntingdon  procures  an  opening  for  Mr.  Ronmine,  for  Mr.  Madan,  and  Mr.  Fletcher. 
VTho  Oratorio.  Musical  taste  of  Mr.  Madan  and  Dr.  Uaweis.  Lady  lluntingdon's  Chapel 
at  Lewes  opened  and  ro-opened.  Mr.  Mason.  His  work  on  the  Catechism.  Mr.  Edwards 
of  Ipswich.  Mr.  Berridge  and  the  Bees.  Southey's  Reflections.  Their  Refutation.  Cha- 
racter of  Berridge.   His  wit.    His  labours.    Berridge  and  the  Bishop. 

CHAPTER  XXII. 

Mr.andMrs.Powy8.  Letters.  Mr.AVhitcfiold.  Mr.  Fletcher.  Mr.  Venn.  BirCHotham. 
Howcl  Harris.  Chapel  at  Brighton  re-opened.  Letters.  Mr.  Romaine.  Mr.  Talbot  Mr. 
Berridge.  Anecdote  of  the  Countess.  Mr.  DeCourcy.  Mr.  Vincent  Perronet.  Mr.Toplady. 
3Ir.  Bliss.  Mr.  Pentycroas.  Chapel  at  Cliichester  opened.  Cliapels  at  Petworth,  at  Guild- 
lord,  and  Basingstoke.    Enlargement  of  that  at  Brighton .   Mr.  Thomas  Jones. 

CHAPTER  XXin. 

Public  Fast.  Extracts  from  Lady  Huntingdon's  Letters.  Prayer-meetings  for  the  Nation* 
Mr.  Venn.  Mr.  Berridge.  SInguIareffects  of  his  preaching.  Mr.  Romaine  and  Mr.  Madan's 
visit  to  Everton.  Mr.  Wesley  preaches  at  Everton.  Convulsive  motions  amongst  the  Con- 
gregation. Letters  to  Lady  Huntingdon.  Lady  Himtingdon  visits  Mr.  Berridge.  Mr.  Venn 
and  Mr.  Fletcher  preach  at  Everton.  Loud  cries  amongst  their  hearers.  Duke  of  York. 
Dr.  Dodd.  Murder  of  Mr.  Johnson.  Lord  Ferrers.  Tried  by  his  Peers.  Visited  in  Prison 
by  Liidy  Huntingdon.    Singular  Conduct  of  LordFerrers.     Execution. 

CHAPTER  XXIV. 

Proposed  Union  among  the  Evangelical  Clergy.    Methodism  in  Scotland.    Lady  Frances 
Gardiner.     Mr.  Townsend  sent  to  Edinburgh.     Mr.  De  Courcy.     Lady  Glcnorchy.    Mr.  t 
Wesley.    Lady  Maxwell.     Samson  Occum,  the  Indian  Preacher.    Mohegan  Indians.    Dr.  * 
Haweis.    Affair  of  Aldwinclc.    Lady  Huntingdon  purchases  the  Advowson  :  writes  to  Mr. 
Thornton.    Lady  Huntingdon's  Letters  to  Lord  Dartmouth  and  Air.  Madan.    Anecdote. 

CHAPTER  XXV. 

Progress  of  Piety  at  Cambridge.  Rowland  Hill.  Oxford.  St  Edmund's  Hall.  The  Six 
Students..  Expulsion.  Sir.  Richard  Hill.  Dr.  Home,  Bishop  of  Norwich.  Mr.  Goodwyn. 
Charges  against  Lady  Huntingdon.  Account  of  the  Students,  and  the  proceedings  againsc 
them.  Letter  from  Lady  Huntingdon.  Lady  Buchon.  Letter  from  Mr.  Wesley.  Chel- 
tenham. Lord  DartmouUi.  Letter  from  Mr.  Venn.  Mr.  Wells.  Mr.Trinder.  Mr.  White- 
field  to  Mr.  Madan.  Mr.  Madan  to  Mr.  Wesley.  Lady  Huntingdon  to  Mr.  Alderman  Harris. 
Gloucestershire  Association.  Lady  Huntingdon  to  3Ir.  Brewer.  Chapels  at  Gloucester, 
Worcester,  and  Cheltenham.    Lady  Huntingdon's  Letter  concerning  them. 

CHAPTER  XXV. 

Chapel  at  Bath.  Pope  the  Poet.  Warburton,  Bishop  of  Gloucester.  Lady  Fanny  Shirley.  / 
Charles  Wesley.  John  Wesley.  Beau  Nash.  Anecdote.  Mr.  Hervey.  Methodist  Con- 
ference. Mr.  Larwood.  Potter,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury.  Dr.  Doddridge  Hon.  Mrs. 
Scawen.  Mr.  Cruttcnden.  Mr.  Ncal.  Dr.  Doddridge  visits  Bristol.  Visits  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon at  Bath.  Anecdote.  Dr.  Oliver.  Dr.  Hartley.  Prior  Park.  Death  of  Dr.  Dod-/ 
dridge.  Mr.  Grinfield.  The  Moravians.  Count  Zinzendorff.  Elizabeth  King.  Lady  Ger- 
trude Hotham.  Death  of  M)i»  Hothanu  Marriage  of  Sir  Charles  Hotham.  Death  of  his 
Lady.  His  own  Decease.  Death  of  his  Mother.  Lady  Gertrude.  Mr.  Theophilus  LindMiy. 
Mrs.  Brewer.  Lord  Huntingdon  and  Mr.  Grimshaw.  Lord  Chesterfield  and  Mr.  Stanhope. 
Countess  of  Molra.  Mrs.  Carteret  and  Mr.  Cavendish.  Countess  Delitz.  Lady  Chesterfield. 
Earl  of  Bath.    Lord  Cork.    Anecdote  of  George  U. 

CHAPTER  XXVII. 

Chapter  at  Bath.  BrctbyHall.  Mr.  Townsend  and  Mr.  Jesse.  Mr.  Romaine.  3Ir« 
Shrapnell.  Mrs.  Wordswcrth.  Letters  from  BIr.  Romaine.  Chapel  opened  at  Bath.  Mr. 
Whitefield  and  Mr.  Townsend.  Mr.  Fletcher's  labours  at  Bath.  Lord  and  Lady  Glcnorchy. 
Letter  from  Lady  Glcnorchy  to  Lady  Huntingdon.  Death  of  Lord  and  Lady  Sutherland. 
Lady  Huntingdon,  the  Wealeys,  and  Mr.  Whitefield.  Letter  from  Lady  Huntingdon  to  Mr. 
Wesley.  Horace  Walpole.  Lady  Betty  Cobbc.  Nobility  attend  Lady  Huntingdon's  Chapel. 
Letter  from  Mr.  Wliitefield  to  Mr.  Powys.  Mr.  Stillingfleet.  Mr.  Fenn  and  Sir  Charles 
Hotham.  Anecdotes  of  Mr.  Venn.  Mr.  Andrews  and  the  Bishop  of  Gloucester.  Mr  Venn. 
atTrevecca.   Mr.  Lee.    Captain  Scott  and  Mr.  Venn.    Anecdotes  of  Captain  Scott    Letter 

from  Mr.  Venn.  Mr.  How^  Darise*  Aneodotc.  Dr.  Haweis.  Mr*  Cndock  GUucott's  Letter 
Cram  Mr.  Fletcher. 


LIFE  AND  TIMES 


or  TBS 


COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON. 


CHAPTER  I. 

Antiquity  of  the  Shirley  Family— Saxon  origin— Norman  dignities — Royal 
alliances-.Foreign  crowns — British  coronets — the  Clanricardes — Battle  of 
Aghrim — the  Parkers — The  Lord  High  Chancellor  found  guilty — the  Levinges 
t— Irish  alliances — Birth  of  Lady  Selina — her  early  character — First  religious 
iropre88iona..The  grave  of  youth — Piety — Private  prayer — Fashionable  life — 
Marriage— The  Huntingdon  family — its  ancestry— The  Earl  of  Huntingdon— 
his  character.^**  Tears  of  the  Muses'*— Self-righteousness — The  Methodists 
—Lady  MargaretlHasting8-.The  light  of  Religious  Truth— Force  of  Example 
— Conversiont 

SELINA,  Countess  of  Huntingdon,  the  most  extraordinary 
woman  perhaps  of  an  age  fertile  in  extraordinary  characters,  and 
in  many  respects  the  greatest  whom  England  has  produced,  was 
descended  from  the  ancient  and  honourable  house  of  Shirley 
— ^a  house  as  remarkable  for  a  long  successive  union  of  piety 
with  nobility,  as  for  the  rarely-equalled  purity  of  its  genealo- 
gical tree,  one  of  whose  ancient  branches  is  coeval  with  the  time 
of  Edward  the  Confessor.  All  its  intermarria^s  having  taken 
place  with  the  most  ancient  and  illustrious  English  houses,  many 
of  its  line  having  distinguished  themselves  in  the  military  history 
of  their  country, — it  would  be  difficult  to  find  a  family  more 
illustrious  or  better  entitled  to  the  claim  of  true  nobility.  The 
devotion  and  fidelity  they  have  always  borne  to  their  Sovereign 
Princes  are  great  and  singular.  Their  high  and  renowned 
alliances  joined  them  in  a  near  degree  of  propinquity  of  blood 
to  the  JEUyal  Stem  of  England,  both  Saxon  and  Korman ;  to 
those  of  France,  Scotland,  Denmark,  Aragon,  Leon,  Castile, 
the  Roman  Empire,  and  almost  all  the  princely  houses  of  Chris- 
tendom. Withm  the  kingdom  of  Great  Britain,  they  are  con- 
nected with  the  most  honourable  and  princely  houses  of  the 
Barons  of  Berkeley,  Dukes  of  Norfolk  and  Buckingham,  Earls 

VOL.  I. — ^B 


2  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

of  Arundel,  Oxfoixli  Northumberland,  Shrewsbury,  Kent,  Derby, 
Worcester,  Huntingdon,  Pembroke,  Nottingham,  Suffolk,  Berk- 
shire, and  to  most  of  the  ancient  and  flourishing  families  of  the 
nobility  and  gentry  of  the  monarchy.  Thus  the  living  de- 
scendants of  this  illustrious  house  have  the  honour  to  issue  from 
the  blood  of  Emperors,  Kings,  Princes,  Dukes,  and  some  of  the 
most  renowned  Earls.  The  lands  and  seigniories  which  they 
have  held  from  the  remotest  period  have  added  to  their  honour ; 
but,  above  all  earthly  things,  we  hold  their  ardent  and  inex- 
tinguishable zeal  for  the  advancement  of  the  service  of  the  Most 
High  God,  and  their  singular  liberality  towards  the  Church — 
for  they  have,  at  all  perils,  evinced  tne  sincerity  of  their  devo- 
tion by  the  great  number  of  places  of  worship  they  have  founded, 
built,  re-edified,  endowed,  or  enriched,  with  their  means  and 
revenue,  in  various  parts  of  the  kingdom. 

The  Shirlets  derive  their  descent  from  Sasuallo  or  Se*- 
wailus  de  Etingdon,  whose  name  (says  Dugdale,  in  his  **  Anti- 

2tiities  of  Warwickshire,")  argues  tiim  to  have  been  of  the  old 
Infflish  stock;  which  Sewalius  resided  at  Nether-Etingdon, 
in  tne  county  of  Warwick,  about  the  reign  of  Edward  the  Con- 
fessor, the  seat  of  his  ancestors  for  many  generations  before. 
After  the  Conquest,  the  lordship  of  Nether-Etingdon  was  given 
to  Henrv,  Earl  of  Ferrars,  in  Normandy,  who  was  one  of  the 

Erincipal  adventurers  with  the  Norman  Duke  William,  and  was 
eld  under  him  by  this  Sewalius ;  to  whose  posterity,  in  the 
male  line,  it  has  continued  to  the  present  day. 

From  this  Sewalius  descended,  in  a  direct  line.  Sir  Henry 
Shirley,  Bart,  who  was  sheriff  of  Leicester  in  the  last  year  of 
the  reign  of  James  the  First  He  married,  in  1615,  Lady 
Dorothy  Devereux,  the  youngest  of  the  two  daughters  of  that 
great  but  unfortunate  ravourite  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  Robert 
Earl  of  Essex,  and  sister  and  co-heiress  to  her  brother,  the  last 
Earl  of  Essex.  By  this  alliance,  the  Earls  Ferrars  quarter  the 
arms  of  France  and  England  with  their  own;  the  Ean  of  Essex 
having  been  maternally  descended  from  Richard  Plantagenet, 
Earl  of  Cambridge,  grandson  to  King  Edward  III.,  and  grand- 
father to  King  Edward  IV.,  and  also  from  Thomas  Plantagenet, 
Duke  of  Gloucester,  youngest  son  of  Edward  III.  Sir  Henry 
Shirley  had,  by  the  Lady  Dorothy  Devereux,*  two  sons  and 

*  Lady  Dorothy  Shirley  took  for  her  second  husband,  in  1634,  William  Staf* 
ford  of  Blatherwick,  county  of  Northampton,  Esq.  The  last  male  heir  of  this 
family  was  WiUiiffl  Staffonl,  Esq.  ^  who  died  without  issuer  Of  his  two  sisters, 
his  oo-heirs,  the  elder,  Susannah,  married  in  1699,  Henry  0*fiiien,  Esq<,  son 
of  Sir  Donatus  O'Brien,  of  .Dromoland  in  the  county  of  Claie.  The  pre- 
sent representatire  of  this  hmij  is  SCafibrd  O'Brien,  Esq.,  of  ^athefwycke 
PiAp  who  ttmnUA  m  dainittf  of  Ifae  kCe  ctodknt  htif  taAMo  i  Ika 
younger,  Anne,  became  the  wife  of  Geoiis^  Lord  Carberry. 


SELINA)  CDtmtfeSS  dF  RtNtttCODON.  8 

one  datighter,  Lettice,*  who  married  William  de  Burgh,  Earl 
of  Clanric^rde.  His  eldest  son,  Charles,  died  unmarried  about 
the  year  1649;  and  Sir  Henry  Shirley  was  succeeded  by  his 
son,  Sir  Robert  Shirley,  who,  for  his  loyalty  to  Charles  1.  was 

*  She  had  a  numerous  family,  and  two  of  her  five  sons  were  successivelj 
Earls  of  Clanricarde ;  lUrhard,  the  eldest,  left  a  daughter,  Lady  Dorothy,  wllo 
martied  Alexander  Pendarves,  Esq  ,  of  Roscarron,  in  CornwaU^  John,  tlie  iiecoha 
son^  who  succeeded  to  the  title  after  the  death  of  his  brother  Richoiil,  without 
issue  male,  was  the  colonel  of  a  regiment  of  foot  in  King  Jameses  army,  and 
created  by  that  monarch,  after  bis  abdication.  Baron  de  Burgh,  of  Bopmn,  ah 
island  adja<!ent  to  the  county  of  Gtdway.  He  was  taken  prisoner  at  the  battle 
of  Aghrim,  at  the  head  of  bis  i^ffiment^  brought  to  the  castle  of  Dublin,  and 
thence  went  to  England,  being  outlawed  and  attainted,  and  his  estates  forfeited, 
for  his  adherence  to  that  king ;  but,  in  the  first  year  of  the  reign  of  Queen  Anne, 
an  act  of  Parliament  was  passed  for  makihg  provision  for  the  Protestant  chih 
dren  of  Richard^  Earl  of  Clanricarde,  and  John  Lord  Bopfain,  whereby  he  wtm 
acquitted  of  all  treasons  and  attainders,  himself  and  children  restored  to  their 
blood  and  estate ;  and  Montague,  Earl  of  Abingdon,  Robert,  Earl  Ferrers  (the 
grandfather  of  Lady  Huntinjddn,)  and  Henry  Thynne,  Esc^.,  afterwards  Vis- 
count Weymouth,  his  next  (mtestant)  relations,  were  appointed  guardians  to 
his  sons,  for  the  purpose  of  completing  their  education  in  the  Protestant  reli« 
gion.  One  of  these  sons,  Michael,  who  became  tenth  Earl,  was  great  grand- 
father lo  the  present  Marquis  of  Clanriciardc. 

Uliek  de  Burgh,  the  fourth  son  of  Lettice^  Countess  of  Clanricarde,  wap 
created  Viscount  Gal  way.  He  was  a  nobleman  of  true  courage,  and  endowed 
with  many  good  qualites :  he  commanded  a  regiment  of  foot  m  Ring  James's 
army,  ana  was  killed  at  the  battle  of  Aghrim,  in  the  22nd  year  of  his  age.  As 
he  med  without  issue,  as  well  as  the  third  aikd  fifth  sons  of  his  mother,  the  title 
became  extinct.  Besides  five  sons.  Lady  Clanricarde  had  four  daughters,  two 
of  whom  died  unmarried ;  Lady  Margaret,  the  eldest,  married,  first,  Bryan, 
Viscount  Magennis,  of  Iveagh ;  and  secdndlv,  Thomas  Butler,  Esq.,  of  Kilcash, 
in  the  county  of  Tipperarv,  where  she  died,  his  widow,  July  19,  1744 ;  Lady 
Honora,  the  second  daughter,  first  married  Patrick  Sarsfield,  Earl  of  Lucari, 
who  was  killed  Ht  the  battle  of  Landen,  July  19, 1693;  and  secondly,  in  the 
chapel  of  the  Castle  of  St.  Germain^s,  near  raris,  in  1695,  James  Fitt-Jamesi 
Duke  of  Berwick,  Murshal,  Duke,  and  Peer  of  Prance  (eldest  natural  wh  of 
Jdmes  IL  by  Lady  Arabella  Churchill,  sister  to  John,  Duke  of  Marlborough,) 
one  of  the  greatest  GetaeralB  in  Europe,  who  was  killed  at  the  siege  of  Philips- 
burgh,  June  12,  I7d4»  leaving  is«ue  by  ber  (who  died  at  Pesehas,  a  city  of 
Languedoc,  in  169^)  James  Francis  riiz-James,  Duke  of  Berwick,  founder  of 
the  branch  of  the  House  of  Stitart,  established  in  Spain.  He  was*created  by 
Philip  V.  Duke  of  Liria  and  Xercia,  Grandee  of  Spain  ot  the  first  Class,  Knight 
of  the  Order  of  the  Golden  Fleece,  of  St.  Andrew,  and  St.  Alexandro,  and 
Chamberlain  to  the  King  of  Spain.  He  married  Catherine  de  Portugal-Columb» 
daughter  and  heir  of  the  Duke  of  Veragiias,  a  Grandee  of  Spain,  in.  whose  right 
he  bore  that  title.  Having  been  sent  Ambassador  from  Philip  V.  to  his  son 
Don  C^Ios,  King  of  the  two  Sicilies,  he  died  at  Naples,  June  1,  17^  aged 
forty-two  years,  leaving  issue  by  his  Duchess  (who  died  in  October,  1739,)  two 
sons  and  one  daughter,  viz.  t.^ 

SaxAes  Fitz-James  Stuait,  Duke  of  l^rwick,  LiriJi,  and  de  Veraguas,  who  had 
a  son  named  Charies- Bernard- Paschal- Fits- James,  baptized  July  5,  1751,  and 
ennobled  as  Marquis  of  Jamaica. 

Lord  Peter  Fits- James,  called  in  Spain  Don  Pedro,  and  created  Marquis  de 
Saint  Leonard,  in  May,  1774,  Lieutenant- (General  and  Admiral  of  Spain.  He 
marriea  and  left  Issue. 

Donna-Mariai  married  to  the  Duke  of  Mirandola,  Duke  and  Grandee  of  the 
first  Class,  whose  widow  the  died  al  AMiid«  Not^amber  11»  1750i 

B  2 


4  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

imprisoned*  in  the  Tower  of  London,  by  Oliver  Cromwell, 
where  he  died  during  his  confinement,  not  without  suspicion  of 
poison.  It  was  his  smgular  praise  to  have  done  the  best  in  the 
worst  times,  and  to  have  hoped  even  in  the  most  calamitous 
circumstances.  By  his  wife,  Catherine,  daughter  of  Humphrey 
Okeover,  Esq.,  of  Okeover,  in  the  county  of  Stafford,  he  had 
two  sons :  Sir  Seymour  Shirley,  his  successor,  and  Sir  Robert, 
afterwards  Earl  Ferrers;  also  two  daughters:  Catherine, 
married  to  Peter  Venables,  Baron  of  Kinderton ;  and  Dorothy, 
to  Geoi^e  Vernon,  Esq.,  of  Sudbury,  in  Derbyshire.  The  only 
son  of  Sir  Seymour  Shirlev,  by  the  Lady  Diana  Bruce,  daugh- 
ter of  the  Earl  of  Aylesfcury,  surviving  his  father  but  a  short 
time,  the  title  of  Baronet  devolved  on  his  uncle.  Sir  Robert 
Shirley,  the  grandfather  of  Lady  Huntingdon  ;  which  Sir  Robert 
Shirley,  First  Earl  Ferrers,  was  bom  at  East-Sheen,  in 
Surrey,  during  his  father's  confinement  in  the  Tower;  and 
on  December  14,  1677,  his  Majesty  Kin^  Charles  II.,  taking 
into  consideration  that  this  Sir  Robert  Shirley  was  grandson 
and  heir  to  Lady  Dorothy  Devereux,  the  younger  of  the  two 
sisters  and  heirs  "of  Robert  Devereux,  the  last  Earl  of  Essex 
of  that  family,  and  that  the  issue  male  of  the  elder  sister  and 
coheiress,  the  Lady  Frances,  who  married  William  Seymour, 
Marquis  of  Hertford,  was  then  extinct,  was  pleased  to  confirm 
unto  him  and  his  heirs  the  ancient  Baronies  of  Ferrars  of 
Chartley,  Bourchier,  and  Lovaine ;  which  honour  had  been  in 
abeyance  between  the  Ladies  Frances  and  Dorothy  Devereux, 
and  their  descendants,  from  the  decease  of  their  brother,  the 
Earl  of  Essex,  without  issue.  Sir  Robert  Shirley  being  so 
declared  Lord  Ferrars  of  Chartley,  &c.,  was  introduced 
into  the  House  of  Peers,  Januarj-  28,  1677-8,  and  took  his 
place  according  to  the  ancient  writ  of  summons  to  John  de 
Ferrars,  his  hneal  ancestor  [February  6,  27th  Edward  I.]. 
He  was  Master  of  the  Horse  and  Steward  of  the  Household 
to  Queen  Catherine,  consort  of  King  Charles  II.,  and  was 
sworn  of  the  Privy-Council  to  King  William  [May  25,  1699.] 
In  the  reiffn  of  Queen  Anne,  he  was  again  sworn  of  the  Privy- 
Council  [November  25,  1708,]  according  to  the  act  for  the 
union  of  the  two  kingdoms;  and  on  the  third  September,  1711, 
was  advanced  to  the  titles  of  Viscount  Tamworth  and  Earl 
Ferrars,  by  reason  of  his  descent  from  the  ancient  and  noble 
family  of  Ferrars. 

His  Lordship  was  twice  married,  and  had  a  family  of  twenty- 
seven  children.     His  first  Countess  was  daughter  and  heiress  to 

*  See,  in  Nichors  History  of  Leicestershire,  a  fac-simile  of  a  letter  from 
Charles  IL  to  his  widow ;  and  a  portnit  of  Sir  Robert. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  5 

Lawrence  Washington,  Esq.,  of  Caresden,  in  Wiltshire,  who 
dying  October  2,  1693,  was  buried  at  Stanton-Harold ;  he 
married,  as  his  second  wife,  in  Au^st,  1699,  Sclina,  daughter 
of  George  Finch,  Esq.,  of  the  city  of  London.  This  Lady 
Ferrarsdied  March  20,  1762.  Robert  Shirley,  the  eldest  son, 
was  created  Earl  Ferrars,  but  died  before  his  father.  He  had 
been  twice  married;  first,  to  his  cousin,  Catherine,  daughter 
to  Peter  Venables,  Baron  of  Kinderton,  who,  dying  in  her 
nonage,  he  married,  secondly,  Anne,  daughter  of  Sir  Humphrey 
Ferrars,  heiress  to  her  grandfather,  John  de  Ferrars,  Esq.,  of 
Tamworth  Castle,  last  heir  male  of  the  Barons  Ferrars  of  Groby. 
She  bore  him  three  sons,  Robert,  Ferrars,  and  Thomas,  and  a 
daughter,  Elizabeth.  Robert  became,  by  his  father's  death, 
heir-apparent  to  his  grandfather,  and  was  elected  Knight  of  the 
Shire  for  the  county  of  Leicester  in  the  last  Parliament  called 
by  Queen  Anne.  He  survived  both  his  brothers,  and  likewise 
died  of  the  small-pox  in  the  lifetime  of  his  grandfather,  July  5, 
1714,  unmarried,  leaving  his  sister  Elizabeth,  married,  in  1716, 
to  James  Compton,  Earlof  Northumberland,  his  heir ;  she  died 
March,  1740-1,  leaving  an  only  daughter,  and  heiress,  Charlotte, 
Baroness  Ferrars,  first  wife  of  George,  Marquis  Townshend. 

Earl  Ferrars  departed  this  life  on  the  25th  of  December, 
1717,  and  was  succeeded  in  his  title  and  estates  by  his  second 
son,  the  Honourable  Washington  Shirley,  who  took  his  seat  in 
the  House  of  Peers  as  Second  Earl  Ferrars.  His  Lordship 
was  father  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  and  was  born  June  22,  1677, 
and  named  Washington,  after  his  mother,  the  daughter  and 
heiress,  as  we  have  said,  to  Lawrence  Washington,  Esq.,  by 
Eleanor,  sister  to  Sir  Christopher  Guise,  Bart.,  of  Hynam  Court, 
in  the  County  of  Gloucester.  Lord  Ferrars  was  a  nobleman  of 
great  honour  and  probitV)  and  a  lover  of  justice ;  the  affability 
and  benevolence  of  his  disposition,  and  the  goodness  of  his  un- 
derstanding, made  him  beloved  and  esteemed  throughout  his 
life.  The  respect  and  veneration  paid  to  him  while  he  lived, 
and  the  univers^il  lamentation  at  his  death,  are  ample  testimonies 
of  a  character  not  easily  to  be  paralleled. 

Lady  Huntingdon's  mother  was  descended  from  a  £amily  of 
great  respectabiuty  and  antiquity,  seated  at  Parwick,  in  the 
county  of  Derby,  as  early  as  1561.  Her  great-grandfather, 
Richard  Levinge,  Esq.,  of  Parwick,  married  the  aunt  of  Thomas 
Parker,  an  eminent  lawyer,  who  rose  to  the  dignity  of  Lord 
High  Chancellor  and  Earl  of  Macclesfield.  It  was  an  extra- 
ordinary instance  of  the  fallibility  of  human  virtue,  that  this  every 
way  distinguished  character,  one  of  the  great  ornaments  of  the 
Peeragei  who  had  so  long  presided  at  the  administration  of  jush 


6  THU  <.!?£  AND  TIMIS  OF 

tice,  should  himself  be  arri^igned  as  a  criminal  op  charges  of 
corruption.  He  was  tried  at  the  bar  of  the  House*  and  upiM^i- 
i^ousty  pronounced  guilty;  in  consequence  of  which  he  was 
removed  from  his  high  office  and  fined  thirty  thott^and  paundif 
as  a  punishment  for  his  offence.  He  was  the  second  l«ord 
Chancellor  of  ]^ng|and  impeached  by  the  grand  inquest  of  the 
nation  for  corruption  of  office ;  and*  lik^  his  great  predecessor, 
Lord  St.  Alban's,  found  guilty  of  the  chaiffe.  The  prosecution 
was  carried  on  with  great  virulence )  and  though  rigid  justice 
demanded  a  severe  sentence,  yet  party  zeal  and  personal  animo- 
sity were  supposed  to  have  had  their  weight  in  that  which  was 
passed  upon  him.  His  (.ordship's  son  succeeded,  as  second 
Earl  of  Macclesfield,  and  his  only  daughter.  Lady  Elisabeth 
Parker,  married  Sir  William  Heathcqte,  of  Hurstey,  in  the 
county  of  Southampton,  Bart.  Upon  the  male  descendants  of 
this  lady  the  honours  of  her  fa|hor  are  entailed*  ii\  default,  at 
any  period,  of  the  direct  male  line. 

Her  Ladyship's  grandfftther,  the  Right  Hon.  Sir  Richard 
Levinge,  Knight,  of  Parwick,  Recorder  of,  and  member  |br, 
Chester,  having  attained  ^eat  eminence  at  the  English  Bais  was 
appointedi  in  1690,  Solicitor-General  in  Ireland  and  Speaker 
of  the  House  of  Commons.  He  was  created  a  Baronet  of  that 
kingdom  by  Queen  Anne,  October  26,  1704;  he  was  a  man 
of  good  judgment  SM^d  great  integrity ;  and  set  himself  with 
great  ^pplica^tion  to  the  functions  of  his  important  post*  In 
1711,  Sir  Richard  was  nominated  Attorney-General,  and  in 
1720,  Lord  Chief  Justice  of  the  Court  of  (jommon-Pleas.  A 
few  years  after  his  removal  to  Ireland  he  purchased  the  estate 
of  High  Park)  now  Knockdrin  Castle,  in  the  county  of  West- 
meath,  the  present  residence  of  the  Levinge  family.  Sir  Richard 
married  first,  in  1680,  Mary,  daughter  and  co-heiress  of  Sir 
Gawen  Corbyn,  of  London,  Knt,  by  whom  he  had  three  sons 
and  three  daughters ;  the  eldest  of  the  latter,  Mary,  married 
Washington,  Earl  Ferrars ;  the  second  Dorothea,  married)  first. 
Sir  John  Rawdon,  of  Moira^  and  afterwards.  Dr.  Charles  Cobb, 
Archbishop  of  Dublin ;  the  third,  Grace,  married  Edward  Ken- 
nedy, Esc).,  of  MuUow,  in  the  county  of  Lonfi^ford. 

Sr  Richard  Levinge  married,  second,  Mi^ry,  daughter  of 
the  Hon.  Robert  Johnson,  one  of  the  Barons  of  the  Exchequer 
in  Ireland,  by  whom  he  had  one  son,  who  died  July  18,  1724, 
and  was  interred  in  St.  Mary's,  in  Dublin.  His  eldest  son.  Sir 
Rich^d}  succeeded  to  him  as  the  second  Baronet*  He  was  for 
many  years  member  of  Parliament  for  Blessington,  and  died 
November  2,  1731,  without  issue.  Lady  Levii)fi[e  survived  him 
tiU  th«  4^tl^  of  f  9br\iaryi  1747t    Sbe  was  a  ^Mgl^ter  of  Sir 


8ELINA,  COUHTESni  o)r  RtrKTINODON.  7 

Arthur  Rawdon  (brother  of  Marjr,  Countess  of  Orttnardt  a»d 
nephew  of  Edward,  Earl  Conway,)  by  Helena,  daughter  and 
heiress  to  Sir  James  Graham,  third,  and  youngest  son  of 
William,  Earl  of  Monteith  and  Airth,  in  Scotland.  The  title 
defolred  upon  Sir  Richard's  brother.  Sir  Charles  Levin^, 
whose  granason.  Sir  Richard  Lerinse,  the  present  representative 
of  the  femily,  married  the  eldest  daughter  of  Lora  RanoKffe, 
and  has  a  very  numerous  family.  Mtss  Selina  Levinge,  sister 
to  Sir  Richara,  married  the  Aev.  Henry  Lambert  Bayle]^,  of 
Ballyarthur,  in  the  county  of  Wicklow ;  and  Miss  Anne  Jbevinge 
espoused  the  Rev  William  Gregory,  second  son  of  W.  Gregorry 
Esq.,  Secretary  of  the  Civil  Department  in  Ireland,  and  grand- 
son, maternally,  of  William,  nrst  Earl  of  Clancarthy,  and 
nephew  of  the  present  Archbishop  of  Tuam. 

Dorothy  Levin^  one  of  the  three  sisters  of  the  Right  Hon, 
Sir  Richiurd  Levmffe,  Bart.,  married  Henry  Buckston,  Esq., 
whose  ancestors  had  been  seated  at  Bradbome,  in  Derbyshirey 
for  several  centuries.  His  descendant,  the  Rev.  Grermafi 
Buckston,  of  Bradbome,  is  the  present  representative  of  that 
fiimilv. 

Ladt  Ssliha  Shirley  was  the  second  of  the  three  daugb-* 
ters  and  eo-heiresses  of  Washington,  second  Earl  P^rravs,  and 
was  bom  August  94,  1707.  Her  eldest  sister,  the  Lftdy  Eliza- 
beth was  married  to  Joseph  Gascoigne  Niffbtiaflale^  Esq.,  of 
Enfield,  in  the  county  of  Middlesex,  and  manmead,  in  the 
county  of  Devon ;  and  the  youngest,  Lady  Mary,  to  Thomas 
Needham,  Visoount  Kilmorey,  of  the  kingdom  of  Ireland, 
nephew  to  the  Earl  of  Huntingdon.  His  Lordship  dying  Feb. 
3,  1768,  without  issue  by  Lady  iCilmorey,  who  diedf  August  1% 
1784,  was  succeeded  by  his  next  surriring  brother,  John,  tenth 
Viscount,  grandftither  of  Francis,  present  Earl  of  Kifanorey. 
Lady  Elixabeth  Nightingale  had  a  son,  named  Washington 
N^btinflale,  who  died,  unmarried,  in  1734;  and  a  daughter, 
Elixabetn,  sole  heiress  to  her  father  and  mother,  who  was 
married  to  Wilmot,  Earl  of  Lisburne,  an  Irish  Peer,  and  died 
May  19,  1755,  in  giving  birth  to  Wilmot  Vaughan,  second  Earl 
of  Lisbume.  On  the  death  of  Sir  Robert  Nightingale,  Bart^ 
one  of  the  directors  of  the  East  India  Company,  who  died, 
unmarried,  in  171KI,  the  fiimily  estates  devolved  upon  bis  cousin, 
Robert  Gascoigne,  Esq.,  second  son  of  the  Rev.  Joseph  Ghu- 
coigne,  of  Enfield ;  ana  the  baronetc^r  lay  dormant  for  three 

Sirters  of  a  century,  until  it  was  claimed,  in  171^7,  by  Lieut* 
lonel  Edward  Nightingale,  father  of  the  present  Baronet 
But  the  eldest  son  of  Mr.  Gasooiprne  bad  assumed  the  name  of 
Nightingale  previous  to  bis  mamaffe  with  the  Lady  Eliwbetb 
Shirley^  in  l7Vij  who  was  intermd  wftb  him  4d  Wemmrt^ 


a  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

Abbey,  where  a  well-known  and  unrivalled  monument  by  Rou« 
billiac  is  erected  to  their  memory. 

Lady  Selina's  mind,  even  in  very  early  infiincy,  was  of  a 
serious  cast.  When  she  was  only  nine  years  of  age,  the  sight  of 
a  corpse,  about  her  own  age,  on  its  way  to  the  grave,  induced 
her  to  attend  the  buriaL  There  the  first  impressions  of  deep 
seriousness  concerning  an  eternal  world  took  possession  of  her 
heart,  and  with  many  tears  she  earnestly  implored  God,  on 
the  spot,  that  whenever  he  should  be  pleased  to  take  her  away, 
he  would  deliver  her  from  all  her  fears,  and  give  her  a  happy 
departure.  She  often,  afterwards,  visited  that  grave,  and  always 
preserved  a  lively  sense  of  the  affecting  scene  she  had  there 
witnessed. 

Though  no  correct  views  of  evangelical  truth  had  hitherto 
enlightened  her  Ladyship's  mind,  yet  even  during  her  juvenile 
days,  she  frequently  retired,  for  prayer,  to  a  particular  closet, 
where  she  coiud  not  be  observed,  and  in  all  her  Uttle  troubles 
found  reUef  in  pouring  out  the  feelings  of  her  heart  to  God. 
When  she  grew  up  and  was  introduced  into  the  world,  she  con- 
tinued to  pray  that  she  might  marry  into  a  serious  &mily.  None 
kept  up  more  of  the  ancient  dignity  and  propriety  than  the  house 
of  Huntingdon :  the  fEunily  possessed  a  sort  of  decorum  which 
she  perhaps  mistook  for  religion.  With  the  head  of  that  fEunily 
she  accordingly  became  united  on  the  drd  of  June,  1728.  His 
Lordship  was  descended  in  a  direct  line  from  Francis,  second  Earl 
of  Huntin^on,  who  married  Catherine,  eldest  daughter  and  co- 
heiress to  Henry  Cole,  Lord  Montacute,  son  and  heir  to  Sir 
Richard  Cole,  Knight  of  the  Garter,  and  Margaret,  Countess  of 
Salisbury,  daughter  to  George  Plantagenet,  Duke  of  Clarence, 
brother  to  Edward  IV.  and  heiress  to  her  brother  Edward,  Earl  of 
Warwick,  who  was  the  last  heir  male  of  the  Royal  House  of  Plan- 
tagenet Talent  and  piety  adorned  the  Hastings  family :  Lord 
Hastings,  the  uncle  of  Lord  Huntingdon,  was  a  nobleman  of 
great  learning,  and  of  so  excellent  a  disposition,  that  no  less  than 
ninety-eight  elegies  were  made  on  him,  and  published  under  the 
title  of  ^Q^acrymae  Musarum;  the  Tears  of  the  Muses:"  among 
which  was  Dryden's  first  essay. 

The  house  of  Huntingdon  has  produced  many  bright  examples 
of  religious  females,  who  consecrated  their  endowments  to  the 
service  of  God.  Of  this  number  was  the  Lady  Elizabeth  Lang- 
ham,  the  lady  of  Sir  J.  Langham,  Bart.,  and  aunt  to  Lord 
Huntingdon,  of  whom  an  interesting  account  has  been  preserved 
in  "Burder's  Memoirs  of  eminently  pious  Women."  His  Lord- 
ship's sisters,  particularly  Lady  Betty  and  Lady  Margaret 
Hastings,  were  women  of  singular  excellence. 

Theoi^us.  ninth  Earl  of  Huntingdon,  was  the  eldest  son  of 


gELINA)  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  9 

Theophilus,  seventh  Earl,  by  his  second  marriage,  and  was  bom 
at  Donnington  Park,  November  12,  1696,  and  baptized  on 
the  20th  ot  the  same  month.  He  succeeded  his  half-brother, 
Greorge,  eighth  Earl  of  Huntingdon,  February  22,  1704-5 ;  and 
at  the  coronation  of  George  II.,  October  11,  1727,  carried  the 
sword  of  State.  His  Lordship's  mother,  Frances  Countess  of 
Huntingdon,  was  daughter  and  sole  heiress  to  Francis  Leveson 
Fowler  Eso.,  of  Hamage-Grange,  in  ths  county  of  Salop,  and 
grand-daughter  of  Lora  Kinderton,  who  had  married  Lady 
Catherine  Shirley,  sister  to  Robert,  first  Earl  Ferrars. 

Lord  Huntingdon's  exemplary  character,  his  marriage  and 
issue,  are  set  forth  in  an  elegant  inscription  from  the  pen  of 
Lord  Bolingbroke,  on  a  monument  erected  to  his  memory*  by 
Lady  Huntingdon,  in  the  church  of  Ashby-de-la-Zouch,  where 
he  hes  interred. 

Such  was  the  noble  Earl  to  whom  the  Lady  Selina  Shirley 
was  united  ^*  in  love's  inviolable  bonds ;"  and  his  Lordship  well 
knew  how  to  value  the  treasure  which  Providence  had  given 
him,  in  a  woman  of  such  exalted  merit  and  amiable  qualities, 
and  accordingly  made  it  his  study  to  repay  the  felicity  with 
which  she  crowned  his  life.  He  considered  himself  possessed 
of  the  greatest  possible  addition  to  his  earthly  happiness,  and 
from  the  period  of  his  marriage  was  uniformly  an  attentive  and 
affectionate  husband,  which  cnaracter  he  maintained  with  a  be- 
coming mixture  of  dignity  and  affection  till  the  day  of  his  death. 
His  esteem  for  her  was  equal  to  that  affection,  and  he  often 
declared  that  time  increased  it — that  her  life  and  actions  ren- 
dered virtue  amiable,  and  that  in  her  society  he  found  his  greatest 
happiness.  Nor  could  any  one  be  happier  than  herself  in  such 
a  partner ;  for  whom,  the  longer  she  knew  him,  she  had  the 
greater  reason  to  bless  God :  indeed,  the  venerable  Countess 
continued  to  the  last  moments  of  her  protracted  life  to  express 
the  highest  veneration  and  affection  for  his  memory ;  and,  but  a 
short  time  before  her  death,  she  discovered  how  incapable  she 
was  of  forgetting  him,  by  shedding  fresh  tears  at  every  mention 
of  his  name. 

Lady  Huntingdon  was,  unquestionably,  formed  for  eminence. 
Her  tender  age  exhibited  a  fine  dawn  of  her  mature  excellence ; 
and  she  gave  early  presages  of  proving  highly  useful  and  orna- 
mental to  society,  it  permitted  to  arrive  at  those  years  necessary 
for  maturing  the  powers  of  the  human  mind,  iter  endowments 
were  much  above  the  ordinary  standard.  She  possessed  a  highly 
intelligent  mind,  an  extraordinary  quickness  of  apprehension,  a 
brilliant  fancy,  a  retentive  memory,  a  strong  clear  understanding, 

«  See  Chap.  VL,  where  the  EpiUph  will  be  found. 


10  TBI  LIfB  AND  Tllfll  07 

and  a  sound  judpnentt  mueh  improTod  by  readinir,  eoirroraation, 
deep  thought,  and  observation.  Her  knowledge  of  mankind,  even 
at  an  early  aee,  and  her  penetration  into  the  characters  of  those 
with  whom  she  was  acquainted,  were  admirable.  Though  she 
was  obliged,  from  her  situation  in  life,  to  mix  with  others  in 
feshionable  amusements,  an  attachment  to  them,  or  to  the  orna- 
ment of  dress,  was  not  the  foible  of  her  discerning  and  con«- 
templative  mind.  Though  not  a  regular  beauty,  sl^  possessed 
a  large  portion  of  the  charms  of  her  sex :  her  person  was  noble, 
commanding  respect — her  countenance  was  tne  living  picture 
of  her  mind,  and  united  in  it,  in  a  happy  combination,  both  the 
great  and  the  condescending.  This  engaging  exterior  was  ani- 
mated by  a  soul,  lively  and  ardent  in  its  pursuits,  and  enriched 
with  those  qualities  which  the  world  most  highly  commends 
and  esteems. 

At  a  veiy  early  period  of  life.  Lady  Huntingdon  discovered 
an  elevated  turn  ot  mind :  she  was  impressed  with  a  deep  sense 
of  divine  things ;  a  feeling  which  had  a  powerful  influence  on 
her  conduct,  in  leading  her  to  read  the  wcm  of  Ood  with  great 
diligence.  She  manifested  an  extraordinary  turn  for  religious 
meditation;  and  repeatedly  felt  the  most  awful  convictions 
of  the  certainty  and  eternal  duration  of  a  future  state.  Her 
conversation  was  modest,  and  her  whole  conduct  marked  with  a 
degree  of  rectitude  not  usually  to  be  found  in  early  life.  After 
her  marriage,  she  manifested  a  particularly  serious  deportment ; 
and  though  sometimes  at  CSourt,  yet,  in  visiting  the  higher  circles^ 
she  took  no  pleasure  in  the  fashionable  follies  of  the  great.  At 
Donnington-park  she  was  the  Lady  Bountiful  among  ber  neigh- 
bours and  dependants ;  though,  as  she  herself  afterwards  felt 
and  declared,  going  about  to  establish  her  own  righteousness,  she 
endeavoured,  by  prayer,  and  fasting,  and  alms-deeds,  to  commend 
herself  to  the  mvour  of  the  Most  High,  For,  notwithstanding 
the  early  appearance  of  piety  in  Lady  Huntingdon,  it  is  evident 
she  continued  for  many  years  a  perfect  stranger  to  the  true  nature 
of  that  Gospel  which  is  the  power  of  God  to  every  one  that 
believes.  Sne  aspired  after  rectitude,  and  was  anxious  to  possess 
every  moral  perfection — she  counted  much  upon  the  dignity  of 
human  nature,  and  was  ambitious  to  act  in  a  manner  homing 
her  exalted  ideas  of  that  dignity.  And  here  her  Ladyship  out- 
stripped the  multitude  in  an  uncommon  degree :  she  was  rigidly 
just  in  her  dealings,  and  inflexibly  true  to  her  word ;  she  was  a 
strict  observer  of  ner  several  duties  in  every  relation  of  life ;  her 
sentiments  were  liberal,  and  her  charity  profuse ;  she  was  pru- 
dent  in  her  conduct,  and  courteous  in  her  deportment;  she  was 
a  diligent  enquirer  after  truth,  and  a  strenuous  advocate  for 


SELINA,  00iarf«8i  09  ttyyTWaDON.  )  I 

virtue ;  she  w^  fi^quent  in  her  saored  meditatioafls  and  vaa  a 
regular  attendant  at  public  worship.  Possessed  of  so  man^ 
moral  accomplishments  while  she  was  admired  by  the  worldy  it 
is  no  wonder  that  she  should  oast  a  look  of  self-^complaoency 
upon  her  characters  and  consider  herself,  with  respect  to  her 
attainments  in  virtue,  abundantly  superior  to  the  common  herd 
of  mankind.  But  while  the  Countess  was  taken  up  in  oongratuv 
lating  herself  upon  her  own  fancied  eminence  in  piety,  she  was 
an  absolute  stranger  to  that  inward  and  universal  change  of 
heart,  wrought  by  the  gracious  operations  of  the  Spirit  of  God, 
by  which  new  principles  are  established  in  the  minds  new  indi^ 
nations  are  imparted,  and  new  obiects  pursued. 

In  acting  thus,  i«ady  Huntingdon  was  by  no  moans  singulari 
It  is  the  faith  of  multitudes  in  the  present  day,  who  call  uiem* 
selves  Christians,  but  who,  by  presuming  to  compare  their  own 
imaginary  good  deeds  with  the  all-perfect  and  only  justifying 
righteousness  of  the  Saviour,  as  the  ground  of  their  acceptance 
before  God,  make  vpid,  as  far  as  in  them  lies,  all  the  glorioua 
desifi[ns  of  Jehovah's  free  and  sovereign  mercy  in  man's  stuvatiout 

Nothing  short  of  the  depravity  of  our  fallen  nature  can  ao*» 
count  for  our  obstinately  persisting  in  the  notion,  that  the  lunner 
can  do  anything  towards  reconciling  himself  to  the  favour  of  the 
Most  High  and  Most  Holy ;  foigetting  that  the  righteousness 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  being  in  all  respects  consummate  and 
glorious,  cannot  want,  and  will  not  adoiit  of,  any  works  of  tlie 
sinner  as  auxiliary  to  his  justification^  For,  ^^  by  the  obedience 
of  (me,  many  are  made  righteous."  And,  *^  to  him  that  worketh 
not,  but  beiieveth  in  Him  that  justifieth  the  ungodly,  his  faith  is 
counted  to  him  for  righteousness." 

He  who  n^de  the  heart,  and  He  alone,  can  change  it  A 
truth  this,  to  which  the  experience  of  every  true  believer  bears 
an  additional  testimony,  and  which  is  connrmed  by  the  express 
anthority  of  the  Word  of  God.  ^^  Without  me,"  says  the  Saviour, 
^^  ye  can  do  nothing."  And  he  says  again,  ^^  No  man  can  Qome 
unto  me  except  the  Father,  which  bath  sent  me,  draw  him/' 
If  ever  the  sinner  is  converted  to  God,  and  pursues  heavenly 
and  divine  objects,  it  must  be  through  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  by  whom  he  is  ^^  created  anew  in  Chnst  Jesus  unto  good 
works,  wnich  God  hath  before  ordained  that  be  ^ould  widk  in 
them."  This  gracious  chaise  Lady  Huntingdon  now  expeii- 
enced,  for  which  thousands  and  tens  oi  thousands  will  have  abun- 
dant reason  to  bless  God  to  aU  eternity.  The  manner  in  which 
it  was  brought  about,  and  the  mighty  effects  prqduced  by  it,  it 
now  becomes  the  province  of  her  biographer  to  relate. 

Mr.  Whit^d,  Mti  l9gbaf%  tb«  Wesley%  Mi^  Uwpjf  «4 


1*2  THK  LIFE  AKD  THiES  OP 

otheni)  the  gre^t  revivers  of  heardelt  and  serious  religion,  had 
now  awakened  (n^eat  attention  in  the  land,  and  were  branded  with 
the  name  of  Meikoftitis*  As  they  all  set  out  with  professions 
of  Mtrtct  adherence  to  the  Chuirh  of  Ei^land,  the  distinguishing 
tonotM  of  her  Articles  and  Homilies  were  particularly  enforced 
l)V  thorn.  As  this  was  utterly  unUke  the  manner  of  preaching 
wliich  then  chiefly  obtained*  tfiev  attracted  numerous  audiences; 
iiiul  the  lively  mamner  of  address,  as  well  as  the  matter 
of  their  discourses,  exceedingly  struck  the  hearers  with  their 
novelty*  as  well  as  im))ortance.  Nothing  awakened  greater  at- 
tention to  their  preaching,  than  their  quitting  the  universal  habit 
of  Tf ailing  their  serm<ms  from  a  book^  without  any  animation, 
and  addressing  extempore  discourses  to  the  coi^regations  where 
they  ministered. 

The  multitudes  that  followed  them  were  much  affected ;  a 
great  and  visible  change  was  produced  in  the  minds  of  many ; 
tlie  attention  paid  to  these  ministers,  and  the  blessings  evidently 
attendant  on  tneir  labours,  roused  them  to  vigorous  and  increa- 
sing exertions:  they  were  always  at  their  work,  preaching 
wherever  they  could  find  admittance  into  the  churcnes,  and, 
perhaps — for  they  were  human — not  a  little  flattered  by  the 
popularity  attending  their  ministrations.  Some  wild-fire 
could  hardly  fail  to  mingle  with  the  sacred  flame — whilst 
the  sensation  created  by  their  preaching  was  inconceivable. 
Roused  by  opposition  and  encouraged  by  success,  the  Metho- 
dists continued  to  extend  their  influence,  and  spread  their  name 
over  various  parts  of  the  kingdom.  The  churches  being  inca- 
pable of  containing  the  crowds  which  flocked  after  them,  they 
took  to  the  fields  and  preached  everywhere.  Their  congregations 
under  the  canopy  of  heaven  were  prodigious — sometimes,  indeed, 
riotous  and  insulting,  but,  in  ^neral,  solemn  and  attentive. 
By  these  labours  a  flood  of  gospel  light  broke  upon  the  nation — 
societies  increased  by  thousands,  and  their  ministry  was  blessed,  to 
the  great  revival  of  religion,  wherever  they  itinerated.  Men  more 
laborious  than  these  leaders  were  have  hardly  appeared  since 
the  days  of  the  apostles:  they  repeatedly  travelled  over  a 
space  more  than  the  circumference  of  the  globe — wherever 
tney  moved,  they  were  as  a  flame  of  fire,  and  left  behind  them 
a  train  of  evangelical  light  They  were  in  preaching  un- 
wearied, two,  or  three,  and  frequently  four  times  a- day,  and  this 
sometimes  in  places  many  miles  distant  from  each  other;  and 
notice  having  been  previously  given  of  their  coming,  thousands 
awaited  and  welcomed  them,  heard  them  with  reverence,  and 
received  them  as  angels  of  God.  By  their  instrumentality. 
Church  ministers  were  awakened  from  the  lethargy  which 


SELINA)  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  13 

had  beset  them,  and  amazing  multitudes  were  called  to  the 
happy  experience  of  the  salvation  of  Jesus  by  their  labours, 
and  added  to  the  church  of  such  as  shall  be  everlastingly 
saved. 

As  all  are  by  nature  alike,  in  a  moral  and  spiritual  sense, 
equally  guilty  and  vile,  v^eak  and  worthless,  so  divine  grace  is  a 
kind  leveller  of  distinctions,  and  is  no  respceter  of  persons  or 
classes.  Though  not  many  women  wise  after  the  flesh,  not 
many  mighty,  not  many  noble  are  called ;  yet,  to  show  the 
sovereignty,  and  power,  and  riches  of  divine  grace,  God  is 
pleased  sometimes  to  select  the  monuments  of  his  mercy  from 
among  the  wealthy  and  noble,  to  show  that  he  is  no  respecter  of 
persons,  but  is  rich  in  mercy  to  all  that  call  upon  him.  The 
sisters  of  Lord  Huntingdon  were  women  not  more  distinguished 
by  rank  than  by  general  excellence  of  character.  From  motives 
of  curiosity,  some  of  the  Ladies  Hastings  were  induced  to 
attend  the  preaching  of  the  first  Methodists,  and  there  the  Lord 
met  them  with  the  blessings  of  his  grace.  Under  this  ministry 
they  were  given  to  see  the  insufficiency  of  their  own  righteous- 
ness and  the  method  of  salvation  on  which  they  had  been  resting, 
and  were  made  willing  to  receive  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  as  the 
foundation  of  their  hope  and  trust.  Then  *^  what  things  were 
once  gain  to  them,"  thev,  with  St.  Paul,  **  counted  k>ss  for 
Christ.  Yea,  counted  alf  things  but  loss,  for  the  excellency 
of  the  knowledge  of  Christ  Jesus  their  Lord."  They  soon 
joined  themselves  to  the  people  of  God,  and  never  appeared  to 
be  ashamed  to  own  whose  they  were,  or  whom  they  served* 

Salvation  to  one  of  a  family,  to  one  of  a  city,  is  often  but  the 
prelude  of  salvation  to  the  whole  house,  and  to  hunrlreds  in  that 
city.  When  the  streams  of  mercy  begin  to  flow  through  such 
channels,  who  can  say  how  many  difierent  directions  they  may 
take,  and  how  far  they  may  ultimately  extend  ?  Upon  the  im- 
portant result  of  one  conversion,  no  man  is  able  to  calculate ; 
and,  therefore,  it  is  said — no  doubt  with  some  reference  to  the 
truth  of  this  remark — "that  there  is  joy  in  the  presence  of 
the  angels  over  one  sinner  that  repenteth."  All  who  are 
themselves  brought  near  to  God  by  the  blood  of  the  cross,  will 
be  earnestly  concerned  for  the  salvation  of  others,  especially 
their  own  kindred ;  and  they  will  estimate  the  success  of  their 
labours  for  the  accomplishment  of  this  object  as  the  highest 
joy  in  time,  and  their  crown  of  rejoicing;  in  that  day  when  the 
Lord  of  Hosts  shall  make  up  his  jewels.  No  sooner  did  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  manifest  hunself  to  the  woman  of  Samaria, 
than  she  went  into  the  city  to  proclaim  the  glory  of  his  name^ 
and  many  of  the  Samaritans  of  that  city  believed  on  him  through 


U  tttiK  Llf£  AND  mttld  DI* 

hef  testimohy.  Lad^  Mat^l*et  Hikstings  was  the  first  who  re- 
cetted  the  trtith  as  it  is  in  Jesus ;  and  the  change  effected  by 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit  on  her  heart,  soon  became  risible 
to  all.  Considering  the  obligations  she  was  under  to  the  sove- 
reign gracM)  of  GonI,  she  feit  herself  called  upon  to  seek  the 
salvation  of  her  fellow-creatures,  and  the  promotion  of  their  best 
and  eternal  intefests.  Next  to  her  own  soul^  the  salvation  of 
her  own  family  atid  friends  became  her  care.  She  exhorted 
.  them  faithfully  and  affectionately,  one  by  one,  to  ^<  flee  from  the 
wrath  to  come ;"  and  the  Lorti  was  pleased  to  make  her  the 
honoured  instrument  of  Lady  Huntingdon's  conversion,  as  well 
as  of  many  others  of  her  fttmily. 

Conversing  with  Lady  Margaret  one  day  on  this  subject,  Lady 
Huntingdon  was  exceedingly  stntck  with  a  sentiment  she  uttered^ 
<*  ihAl  knee  ske  had  An^tMi  and  believed  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christy 
for  lift  and  sali>atieH^  she  had  been  as  happy  as  an  anffelJ*  To 
any  such  sensation  of  happiness.  Lady  Huntingdon  felt  that  she 
was^  as  yetf  an  utter  stranger.  The  more  she  examined  herself, 
and  considered  the  subject,  the  more  she  was  convinced  of  the 
momentous  truth.  This  conviction  caused  many  reflections 
to  arise  in  her  mind ;  and  beginning  also  to  see  her  sinfulness 
and  guilty  and  the  entire  corruption  and  depravity  of  her  whole 
naitire^  her  hope  of  being  able  to  reconcile  herself  to  God  by 
her  own  works  ^and  deservings^  began  gradually  to  die  aWay. 
She  sought,  however,  by  the  most  rigorous  austerities,  to  Con- 
quer her  evil  nature,  and  dispel  the  distressing  thoughts  which 
continually  engrossed  her  mind.  But,  alas  !  the  more  she  strove^ 
the  more  she  saw  and  felt  that  all  her  thoughts,  words,  and 
works)  however  specious  before  men^  v.ere  uttei'ly  sinful  before 
Him  who  is  of  purer  eyes  than  to  behold  iniquity. 

A  dangerous  illness  having,  soon  after,  brought  her  to  the 
brink  of  the  grave^  the  fear  of  death  fell  terribly  upon  her,  and 
her  conscience  was  greatly  distressed^  She  now  perceived  that 
she  had  beguiled  herself  with  prospects  of  a  visionary  nature ; 
was  entirely  blinded  to  her  own  real  character ;  had  lon^  placed 
her  happiness  in  mere  chimeras,  and  grounded  her  vain  hopes 
Upon  imaginary  foundations.  It  was  to  no  purpose  that  she 
retninded  berself  of  the  morality  of  her  conduct ;  in  vain  did  she 
recollect  the  many  encomiums  that  had  been  passed  upon  her 
early  piety  and  virtuei  Her  best  righteousness  now  appeared 
to  be  but  **  filthy  I'ags,"  which,  so  far  fhrni  justifying  her  before 
God,  increased  her  condemnationi  The  remorse  which  before 
attended  donseience,  on  account  of  sin,  respected  only  the 
outward  actions  of  hei^  life  |  but  now  she  saw  hei^  **  heart  was 
dieditftd  tkmm  aU  ^tigs»  aod  desperately  wieked— that  all  have 


S£Lll)Af  COVlTTEtt  07    HUimKODOK.  15 

simied  and  come  short  of  the  glory  of  God  |"  add  that,  ^Hhe 
thoughts  of  man's  heart  are  omy  evily  and  that  ootitinually." 
)Vhen  upon  the  point  of  perishing  in  her  own  apprehension,  the 
words  of  Lady  Margaret  returned  strongly  to  her  recollection^  and 
she  felt  an  earnest  desire,  renouncing  eyery  other  hope,  to  cast 
henielf  wholly  upon  Christ  for  life  and  salvation.  From  her 
bed,  she  lifted  up  her  heart  to  her  Saviour,  with  this  important 
prayer^  and  inunediately  all  her  distress  and  fears  Were  removed, 
and  she  was  filled  with  peace  and  joy  in  believing. 

Now  the  day  began  to  dawn,  Jesus  the  Sun  of  Righteousness 
arose,  and  burst  in  meridian  splendour  on  her  benighted  souh 
The  scales  fell  from  her  eyes,  and  opened  a  passage  for  the  light 
of  Ufe  which  sprang  in,  and  death  and  darKnsss  fled  before  it, 
Viewing  herself  bb  a  braiid  plucked  from  the  burning,  she  could 
not  but  stand  astonished  at  tne  mighty  power  of  that  grace  which 
saved  her  from  eternal  destruction  just  when  she  stood  upon  its 
very  brinks  and  raised  her  from  the  gates  of  hell  to  the  confines 
of  heaven;  and  the  depths  from  which  she  was  raised,  madd 
the  heights  which  she  reached  only  the  more  amazing;  she 
felt  the  rock  beneath  her,  and  from  that  secure  position  looked 
with  astonishtnent  downward^  to  that  horrible  pit  from  which 
she  was  so  mercifully  delivered— and  upwards,  in  extasy,  to  that 
glory  to  which  she  should  be  raised.  The  ^sorrow  of  the 
world,  which  worketh  death,"  was  now  exchanged  for  that  godly 
sorrow  which  worketh  repentance  unto  life ;  and  **  joy  unspeak- 
ablei  and  full  of  glory"  succeeded  that  bitterness  that  comes 
of  the  conviction  of  sm ;  she  enjoyed,  already,  a  deliffhtful  fore- 
taste of  heaven.  Her  disorder  from  that  moment  took  a  favour- 
able turn ;  she  was  restored  to  perfect  health,  and,  what  was 
better,  to  newness  of  ^life.  She  determined  thenceforward  to 
present  herself  to  God,  as  a  living  sacrifice,  holy  and  acceptable, 
which  she  was  now  convinced  was  her  reasonable  service* 

This  mighty  chan^  began  at  her  Ladyship's  heart,  and  ex- 
tended its  salutary  mfluence  to  all  the  sublime  foculties  of 
her  mind,  and  the  whole  tenor  of  her  outward  conversation. 
Her  understanding  was  renewed  in  knowledge.  The  stubborn/ 
ness  of  the  will  was  broken,  and  changed  into  a  passive  acquies- 
cence in  the  sovereign  will  of  God.  "Her  carnal  mind,  which 
was  enmity  against  God,"  was  subdued  by  the  superior  in- 
fluence of  Divine  grace.  All  ofiences  at  tne  Gospel  plan  of 
salvation  died  away  ;  for,  when  the  veil  of  unbelief  that  covered 
her  heart  was  rent,  it  then  "turned  to  the  Lord,"  and  from  that 
moment  she  learned  "  to  count  all  things  but  loss  for  the  ex- 
cellency of  the  knowledge  of  Christ  Jesus  her  Lord."  The  eye 
of  her  understanding  bemg  illuminated  and  her  heart  enraptured 


16  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

with  a  view  of  matchless  excellency,  she  was  ready  to  exclaim, 
*<  Whom  have  I  in  heaven  but  thee?  and  there  is  none  upon 
earth  that  I  desire  besides  thee !"     The  desire  of  her  soul  was 
to  him,  and  to  the  remembrances  of  his  great  name  and  glori- 
ous  salvation.     Believing  in  Jesus,  as  the  Scripture  hath  said, 
she  found  in  him  a  well  of  consolation,  ^<  springing  up  unto  ever- 
lasting life."     All  her  wanderings  were  at  once  happily  termi- 
nated— her  doubts  were  removed,  her  tears  were  dried  up,  and 
she  rejoiced  in  hope  of  the  glory  of  Gbd,  whom  she  contem- 
])latou  in  all  his  amiable  and  august  perfections,  with  deligrht  and 
wonder ;  and  enraptured  with  a  view  of  him  as  reconciled  to  her 
ill  the  Son  of  his  love,  she  ^ve  vent  to  the  fulness  of  her  heart 
ill  tlio  most  glowing  affections  of  gratitude  and  astonishment 
llor  conversion,  in  which  the  hand  of  God  was  so  conspicuous, 
was  not  imaginary,  but  real.  It  not  only  influenced  her  sentiments 
but  (ixtondod  to  her  conduct,  and  was  productive  of  the  most 
mhiiary  effects.      No  sooner  was    her  heart  surrendered    to 
(iod,  and  hor  alienated  affections    restored  to  their  original 
riaitnaiitf  than  outward  fruits  appeared  in  her  conversation: 
\wr  nnioviition  intro<luced  new  light  into  her  understanding, 
iiihI  now  doftiros  into  her  heart  aixTaffections :  and  produced  its 
affort  upon  hor  temper ;  not  wholly  to  eradicate   its  constitu- 
tional peculiarity,  but  to  sanctify,  and  render  it  subservient  to 
i\w  glory  of  God,  and  the  good  of  souls.     Reason  resigned  its 
iretensions  to   the   sacred  authority  of  revelation:  her  intel- 
rctual  powers  were  extricated  from  the  darkness  of  nature, 
nnd  brought  by  the  irradiating  Spirit  of  God  into  the  bright 
region  of  light  and  liberty.     Whom  she  had  found  a  Saviour,  him 
she  was  unalterably  determined  to  follow  as  a  Guide :  He  pos- 
sessed the  supreme  affection,  reverence,  and  homage  of  her  heart 
— was  the  centre  of  its  wishes,  and  the  spring  of  its  comforts. 
A  ffreat  cloud  of  witnesses  are  ready  to  testify,  that  from  her 
earliest  acquaintance  with  the  truths  of  the  (jospel,  the  vene- 
rable and  elect  Countess  of  Huntingdon  continued,  through 
every  stage  of  her  protracted  pilgrimage,  to  walk  worthy  of  her 
high  vocation,  "  Rowing  in  grace,  and  adorning  the  doctrine  of 
Ood  her  Saviour  in  all  things." 


1 


SELINA,   COUNTESS   OF    HUNTINGDON.  17 


CHAPTER  II. 

Lord  Huntingdon—The  Bishop  of  Gloucester — Mr.  Whitefield*s  Preaching— » 
its  Effects— Dr.  Southey — Dr.  Hurd — Archbishop  Seeker— First  Methodist 

Society— Lady  Anne    Frankland — Lord    Scarborough — Dr.    Young Lady 

Fanny  Shirley— ^Mrs.  Temple — Lady  Mary  Wortley  Montagu — Lady 
Townsend — Mr.  Pope — Mr.  Ingham — Mr.  C.  Wesley — Miss  Robinson — 
Lord  Lisbume — The  House  of  Lords — Hammond  the  Poet — Somervile  the 
Poet — Sarah,  Duchess  of  Marlborough — Anecdotes — Duchess  of  Buckingham 
— Anecdotes— Duchess  of  Queensberry — Lord  Oxford — Lady  Hinchinbroke. 

The  biography  of  pious  persons  who  have  devoted  their  lives 
to  the  benefit  of  mankind  and  to  the  glory  of  God,  is  an  ac- 
knowledged source  of  pleasure  and  profit,  and  a  species  of 
writing  possessing  peculiar  attractiveness,  as  we  trace  our  subject 
through  the  scenes  of  life  and  the  chamber  of  death  to  the  very 
gate  of  heaven !  The  illustrious  subject  of  the  present  memoir 
was  an  example  of  piety,  benevolence,  and  zeal,  in  the  best  of 
causes,  such  as  succeeding  generations  may  admire,  when  the 
warriors  and  statesmen  who  were  her  contemporaries  shall  be 
known  no  more. 

On  Lady  Huntingdon's  recoverj'  from  the  illness  adverted  to 
at  page  14,  she  sent  a  kind  message  to  Messrs.  John  and  Charles 
Wesley,  who  were  then  preaching  in  the  neighbourhood,  pro- 
fessing to  be  one  with  them  in  heart,  cordially  wishing  them 
good  speed  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  and  assunng  them  of  her 
determined  purpose  to  live  for  Him  who  had  died  for  her. 

The  change  which  divine  grace  had  wrought  upon  her  Lady- 
ship's heart  soon  became  observable  to  all  around,  by  the  open 
confession  which  she  made  of  the  faith  once  delivered  to  the 
saints,  and  by  the  zealous  support  she  gave  to  the  cause  of 
God,  amidst  the  torrents  of  reproach  with  which  it  was  at- 
tended. To  the  noble  circle  iu  which  the  Countess  moved, 
such  professions  and  conduct  appeared  strange ;  and  there  were 
not  wanting  some  who,  under  the  guise  of  friendship,  wished 
Lord  Huntingdon    to  interpose   bis  authority;  but  although 

VOL,  I.' 


18  THE   LIFE   AND  TIMES   OF 

he  differed  from  her  Ladyship  in  her  views  of  rehgion,«he  con- 
tinued to  manifest  the  same  affection  and  respect,  and  at  his 
demise  left  her  the  entire  management  of  her  children,  and 
their  fortunes.  His  Lordship  was  too  generous  to  yield  to  such 
insidious  advice,  but  he  recommended  her  to  converse  with 
Bishop  Benson,  who  had  been  his  tutor,  and  with  this  request 
she  readily  complied.  The  Bishop  was  accordingly  sent  for, 
and  he  attempted  to  convince  her  Ladyship  of  the  unnecessary 
strictness  of  her  sentiments  and  conduct.  !But  she  pressed  him 
so  hard  with  Scripture,  brought  so  many  arguments  from  the 
Articles  and  Homuies,  and  so  plainly  and  faithfully  urged  upon 
him  the  awful  responsibility  of  his  station  under  the  Great  Head 
of  the  Church,  that  his  temper  was  ruffled,  and  he  rose  up  in 
haste  to  depart,  bitterly  lamenting  that  he  had  ever  laid  his 
hands  upon  George  Whitefield,  to  whom  he  attributed  the 
change  wrought  in  her  Ladyship.  "My  Lord  !  (said  the 
Countess,)  mark  my  words:  when  you  are  on  your  dying 
bed,  that  will  be  one  of  the  few  ordinations  you  will  reflect  upon 
with  cdmplacence/'  The  Bishop's  conduct  at  that  solemn  sea- 
son verified  her  prediction :  for  when  near  his  death,  he  sent 
ten  guineas  to  Mr.  Whitefield,  as  a  token  of  regard  and  venera- 
tion, and  begged  to  be  remembered  by  him  in  his  prayers  !• 

Dr.  Southey  has,  with  a  partiality  little  to  his  credit,  related 
the  former,  but  suppressed  the  latter  portion  of  this  anecdote, 
and  has  prostituted  nis  talents  in  order  to  heap  sarcasm,  ridicule, 
and  contempt  upon  the  Countess.  Her  religious  feelings,  he 
insinuate,  originated  in  a  *^  decided  insanity  in  her  family  /" — an 
assertion  as  wicked  as  it  is  false — ^and  tells  us  that  all  the  argu- 
ments of  Bishop  Benson  "  were  ineffectual  to  bring  her  tx)  a 
saner  sense  of  devotion."  In  the  next  edition  of  his  caricature 
of  Mr.  Wesley,  it  would  be  candour  to  notice  the  Bishop's  dyinff 

*  There  was  a  coniideroble  alteration  in  his  religious  sentiments  before  his 
death,  which  took  place  August  30tb,  175*2.  At  the  close  of  the  longinscrip- 
tion  on  his  monument,  in  Gloucester  Cathedra),  it  is  written :  "  Under  the  most 
acute  pains  of  his  last  tedious  illness,  he  possessed  his  soul  in  patience,  and, 
with  a  firm  trust  in  his  Redeemer,  calmly  resigned  his  spirit  to  the  FVitiier  of 
Mercies.**  To  that  epitaph  might  have  been  added,  as  the  most  distinguishing 
honour  of  this  Bishop's  life,  that  he  was  the  prelate  who  ordained  the  greatest, 
the  most  eloquent,  and  the  most  usetul  minister  that  any  age  mnte  that  of  the 
Apostles  had  produced. 

The  venerable  Dr.  Hurd,  Bishop  of  Worcester,  being  in  the  habit  of  preach- 
ing frequently,  had  observed  a  poor  man  remarkably  attentive,  and  made  him 
some  little  present  After  a  while  he  missed  his  humble  auditor,  and  meeting 
him,  said,  *  John  how  is  it  that  I  do  not  see  jrou  in  the  aisle  as  usual  ?"  John, 
with  some  hesitation,  replied,  "  My  Lord,  I  hope  you  will  not  be  offended,  and 
I  will  tell  vou  the  tVuth.  I  went  the  other  day  to  hear  the  Methodists,  and  I 
uifierBtattd  their  plain  words  so  much  better,  that  I  buve  latlsiided  tliem  eve^ 
siaoe,'*    The  BttlK>p  put  Us  Iniid  into  hb  |>9oket»  and  ga^  li«  «  gwi^ 


SELINAi  COUNTESS  OF  fiimTIKGDON.  lA 

ffiftto  Mr,  Whitefield — his  dyinff  professions  of  regard  for  Mr. 
Whitefield — and  his  dying  request  for  Mr.  Whitefield's  "prayers  ; 
a  luminous  commentary  on  the  almost  prophetic  language  of 
Lady  Huntingdon,  and  a  decisive  reproof  to  tne  Poet  Laureate's 
fiction  of  hereditary  insanity,  which  indeed  is  sufficiently  dis- 
proved by  her  every  act,  her  every  letter,  and  her  every  word. 

Though  few  persons  have  ever  had  so  just  a  claim  as  her 
Ladyship  to  universal  approbation,  she  was  far  from  courting  the 
applause  of  a  world  in  which  her  Lord  and  Master  had  been 
publicly  despised  and  rejected,  or  of  making  an  ostentatious 
display  of  superior  parts  and  accomplishments.  Her  family  and 
connections,  her  attainments  in  science  and  grace,  with  what- 
ever else  might  be  considered  as  tending  to  her  advantage, 
she  regarded  as  matters  of  trivial  estimation ;  while,  in  the  lowli- 
ness of  her  heart,  she  adopted  the  language  of  the  great  Apostle ; 
^^  God  forbid  that  I  should  glory,  save  in  the  cross  of  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  by  whom  the  world  is  crucified  unto  me,  and  I 
unto  the  world." 

In  1738,  the  first  Methodist  Society  was  formed  in  the  (now 
Moravian)  chapel,  a  plain  but  veneral)le  building  in  Neville's* 
court.  Fetter-lane,  London  :  Messrs.  Wesley,  Whitefield,  Ingham, 
Howell  Harris,  and  many  other  eminent  men,  preached  ther9 
with  amazing  power  and  success ;  Messrs.  Cennick  and  Oakley* 
and  others  who  afterwards  made  a  distinguished  figure  in  the 
Church  of  Christ,  were  members  of  the  congregation  at  this  time* 
It  was  at  this  place  th<it  Lord  and  Lady  Huntingdon  first  at- 
tended the  Society-meetings.  Sir  John  Phillips  and  Sir  John 
Thorold  were  amongst  the  awakened,  and  members  of  the  Fetter- 
lane  Society.  Mr.  Whitefield,  who  had  lately  returned  from 
Bristol,  where  he  had  been  preaching  in  the  open  air,  was  now 
in  London,  and,  with  Howell  Harris,  preached  frequently  at 
Fetter-lane.  This  was  the  central  place  of  meeting.  Here 
they  had  their  love-feasts,  and  eucouraged  each  other  in  devo« 
tedness  to  God.     **  On  the  first  night  of  the  new  year  (says  Mr* 

words  to  this  effect-**'  God  bless  you,  and  go  where  vou  can  receive  the  neatest 
profit  to  your  soul  r  An  instance  of  episcopal  canaour  like  this  is  well  worth 
recording.     We  may  be  pardoned  if  we  subjoin  another. 

Archbishop  Seeker,  wnen  laicfon  his  couch  with  a  broken  thigh,  was  visited 
at  Lambeth  by  Mr.  Talbot,  Vicar  of  St.  Giles's,  Reading,  who  haa  lived  in  great 
indmacy  with  him/  and  received  his  preferment  from  him.  "  You  will  pnqr 
with  me,Talbot?**  said  the  Archbishop,  during  this  interview.  Mr.  Talbot  rose 
and  went  to  look  for  a  Prayer-book.  **  That  Is  not  what  I  >vant  now,**  said  the 
dying  prelate ;  **  kneel  down  by  roe,  and  pray  for  me  in  the  way  I  know  you  are 
used  to  do.**  With  which  command  this  zealous  man  of  God  readily  complied, 
and  prayed  cftmestly  from  his  heart  for  his  dying  friend,  whom  he  saw  no 


c2 


90  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

Wesley,)  Messsrs,  Hall,  Kineton,  Ingham,  WTiitefield,  Hutcbips, 
and  my  brother  Charles,  were  present  at  our  love-feast,  with 
about  sixty  of  our  brethren.  About  three  in  the  morning,  as 
we  were  continuing  intent  in  prayer,  the  power  of  God  came 
mightily  upon  us,  insomuch,  that  many  cried  out  for  exceeding 
joy,  and  many  fell  to  the  ground.  As  soon  as  we  recovered  a 
little  from  our  awe  and  amazement  at  the  presence  of  the  Divine 
Majesty,  we  broke  out  with  one  voice,  *  We  praise  thee^  O  God! 
we  acknowledffe  thee  to  be  the  Lord  /'  "  "  It  was  a  pentecost  season 
indeed  (says  Mr.  Whitefield) :  sometimes  whole  nights  were 
spent  in  prayer :  often  have  they  been  filled  as  with  new  wine,  and 
men  have  I  seen  them  overwhelmed  with  the  Divine  Presence, 
and  heard  them  cry  out,  IViU  God  indeed  dwell  with  men  upon 
earth  f  How  dreadjvl  is  this  place  1  Tliis  is  no  other  than  the 
hotcse  of  God  and  die  gate  of  heaven  /" 

The  preaching  of  Mr.  Whitefield  now  excited  an  unusual 
degree  of  attention  amon^  persons  of  all  ranks.  In  many  of  the 
city  churches  he  proclaimed  the  glad-tidings  of  great  ioy  to 
listening  multitudes,  who  were  powerfully  afiected  by  the  fire 
which  displayed  in  the  animated  addresses  of  this  man  of  God. 
Lord  and  Lady  Huntingdon  constantly  attended  wherever  he 
preached,  and  Lady  Anne  Frankland  became  one  of  the  first 
fruits  of  his  ministry  amongst  the  nobility  in  the  metropolis.* 
Her  Ladyship  spent  much  of  her  time  with  Lady  Huntingdon, 
from  whose  society  and  conversation  she  derived  great  corSbrt ; 
but  was  so  afiected  by  the  many  mortifications  she  met  with, 

*  Her  Ladyship  was  daughter  of  Richard,  first  Earl  of  Scarborough,  and 
became  second  wife  to  Frederick  Frankland,  Esq.,  Member  of  Parliament  for 
Thimk,  in  Yorkshire,  a  Committsioner  of  the  Revenue  in  Ireland,  and  a  Com* 
missioner  of  the  Excise  in  England,  son  of  Sir  Thomas  Frankland,  Bart.,  and 
nephew  to  the  Earl  of  Fauconberg.  For  many  years  Lady  Anne  held  die 
situation  of  Lady  of  the  Bed>chamber  to  the  Princess  Anne,  and  to  the  Princesses 
Amelia  and  Caroline.  Attiacted  by  the  fame  of  the  first  Methodists,  who  had 
been  mentioned  with  high  approbation  by  her  friend.  Lady  Huntingdon,  soon 
after  her  marriage,  Lady  Anne,  with  her  sisters,  the  Lady  Barbara  Leigh  and 
the  Ladjr  Henrietta  Lumlcy,  sometimes  attended  their  ministry,  and  received 
much  spiritual  good.  This  excited  the  displeasure  of  Mr.  Frankland  to  such  a 
degree  that  he  treated  her  Ladyship  with  the  utmost  cruelty  and  unkindness, 
"  Poor  Lady  Anne  Frankland  (says  Lady  Hertford,)  is  already  parted  from  her 
husband,  and,  1  think,  without  any  one  person  giving  her  the  least  share  of 
blame.  It  seems  that  he  parted  beds  with  her  before  she  had  been  three  weeks 
married,  and  on  all  occasions  behaved  towards  her  with  the  utmost  cruelty. 
However,  she  made  no  complaint,  till  he  insisted  on  her  leaving  the  house,  when 
fhe  begged  of  him  not  to  force  her  to  do  that,  and  told  him,  that  provided  he 
would  allow  her  to  have  the  sanction  of  being  under  his  roof,  she  would  submit 
to  any  thing.  His  answer  was,  that  if  she  continued  diere,  he  would  either 
murder  her  or  himself.  She  then  applied  to  my  Lord  Scarborough,  who  spoke 
to  her  huf  baad  with  great  wannth,   lie  did  not  lay  any  fault  to  her  charge,  but 


8ELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  21 

that  she  survived  her  brother,  Lord  Scarborough,  but  a  few  days, 
and  her  separation  from  Mr.  Frankland  only  eight  months. 

The  illustrious  author  of  the  "  Ni^ht  Thoughts "  lived  at 
this  time  among  the  great  with  that  respect  to  which  his  literaiy 
talents  justly  entitled  him.  He  had  married  Lady  Elizabeth 
Lee,  daughter  of  the  Earl  of  Lichfield,  and  widow  of  Colonel 
Lee.*  With  Mrs.  Temple,  the  amiable  daughter  of  Lady 
Elizabeth,  by  her  former  husband.  Lady  Huntingdon  had  been 
extremely  intimate ;  and  having  met  Dr.  Young  at  the  residence 
of  Lord  Bolingbroke,  soon  after  his  return  from  abroad,  their 
conversation  had  reference  to  the  death  of  this  lady,  who  died  of 
a  consumption  at  Montpelier,  the  year  after  her  marriage  with 
Mr.  Temple,  son  of  Lord  Palmerston,  It  is  more  than  poeti-^ 
cally  true,  that  the  Doctor  and  Lady  Elizabeth  accompaQie4 
her  to  the  continent. 

"  I  flew,  I  snatched  her  from  the  rigid  north, 
And  bore  her  nearer  to  the  Sun." 

But  in  vain.  Her  funeral  was  attended  with  the  diflSculties 
painted  in  such  animated  colours  in  "  Night  the  Third."f 

Lady  Huntingdon,  who  had  many  opportunities  of  seeing  Dr. 
Young  at  this  time,  observed  a  settled  melancholy  in  his  £spo- 
sition,  and  with  a  view  to  remove  the  load  of  domestic  grief 

only  declared  that  she  was  his  aversion,  and  persisted  in  the  resolution  of 
forcing  her  to  leave  him,  or  killing  her  or  himself.  It  is  said,  that  he  returns 
her  fortune,  aUows  her  six  hundred  pounds  a-year,  and  has  given  her  a  thousand 
pounds  to  buy  a  house.  His  strange  conduct  towards  her  has  been  so  contrary 
to  his  former  character,  that  his  friends  rather  ascribe  it  to  madness  than  to  his 
natural  disposition.** 

*  His  connexion  with  this  lady  arose  from  his  father's  acquaintance  with 
Lady  Anne  Wharton,  who  was  co-heiress  of  Sir  Henry  Lee,  of  Ditchley,  in  Ox- 
fordshire— a  lady  celebrated  for  her  poetical  talents  by  Burnet  and  by  Waller ; 
when  poetry  had  been  taught  by  Addison  to  aspire  to  the  arms  of  nobility, 
though  certainly  without  any  extraordinary  success. 

f  As  the  Doctor  saw  her  graduaUv  declining,  he  used  frequently  to  walk 
backwards  and  forwards  in  a  place  called  the  King's  Garden,  to  find  the  most 
solitary  spot  where  he  might  show  his  last  token  ol  affection,  by  leaving  her 
remains  as  secure  as  possible  from  those  savages  who  would  have  denied  her 
Christian  burial;  for  at  that  time,  an  Englishman  in  France  was  looked  upon  as 
an  heretic,  an  infidel,  or  a  devil.  The  under-gardener,  being  bribed,  pointed  out 
the  most  solitary  place,  dug  the  grave,  and  let  him  bur)  his  beloved  daughter. 
The  man,  througn  a  private  door,  admitted  the  Doctor  at  midnight,  bringing  his 
daughter,  wrapped  in  a  sheet,  upon  his  shoulder  ;  he  laid  her  m  the  hole,  sat 
down,  and  shed  a  flood  of  tears  over  the  remains  of  his  dear  Narcissa— 

"  With  pious  sacrilege  a  grave  I  stole." 

Mr.  Temple  married  a  second  time  a  daughter  of  Sir  John  Bernard,  then 
Lord  Mayor  of  London.  Dying  in  1749,  he  left  an  only  son,  afterwards  Vis- 
count Pumerston,  father  of  the  present  Secretary  of  State  for  Foreign  Affairs. 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Temple  have  generally  been  considered  as  the  Phiiander  and 
NardtM  of  the  *'  Night  Thoughts.'* 


THB  LITS  MSD  TOB3  OF 

which  T^wmai  :o  oi?nrp<«  hi»  ^rirfis*  imrNXuced  him  id  Mr* 
C!ui:-.es  Wesley-  with  ^hom  ie  -"onverwu  n-^eeiy.  iml  q{  whom 
he  ifh^rr.inis  «nnke  m  Iier  Lady>bip  ji  untns  «jf  hitfii  conxaaat- 
dariofu  From  the  preaciuoir  of  liie  Treat  Mechutiisc  Icttiecs^ 
whom  miniatrv  he  occa>it;aajiy  jtrendeu.  he  ippeureii  to  derive 
doma  cnnsoiahon  and  suprort.  Buc  mocher  bnrjtrii  in  his  do- 
mtf^cic  haopiness  w.is  aoon  liter  oiauie  bv  the  decease  of  Lair 
Eiiahedi :  and  to  die  ^)rr«j>T  Dr.  Youo^  telt  tram  thew  lo»es^ 
religion  and  monlity  ire  indebted  5}r  ttie  **  Niirht  Thaughts^'* 

^  T!ieP3  in  a  nioafairc  in  iaibiu<s  trliicii  muunen  a  air  kaow  !** 

*  * 

Lidy  Huntin(rdnn'<}  Intiinuiry  with  Lord  Boiim^roket  and  her 
frer^iient  'visits  M  Twickenham,  the  re<idecce  of  her  aunc^  Lady 
Fannv  Shiriev,  bmuuht  her  ;ii!iiuainted  with  most  of  the  Uteranr 
chancter*  of  that  <lay.*  Liiiy  Fanny  had  locjj  been  one  of  the 
reisninsr  beauties  of  the  Ci)iirt  of  Georj:e  the  Flr^uand  her  only 
rivil  wi8  the  Lady  ILiry  Wortley  MontaiTU  whosae  talents^ 
wir,  litrf^rary  genius,  and  eccentricities*  have  made  her  £une  as 
extensive  as  the  Er^ish  lan;:i:ni:e.  Liicy  F.^nny  frequendy 
attract^  the  notice  of  his  Majesty,  and  likewise  that  of  the 
prino^  of  Wales,  f 

Previous  to  any  decided  reli;r;oiis  impression  having  been 
nuvki  on  her  mind,  Liidy  Huntini]rdt)n  was  much  at  Court,  bat 
Uiftk  no  part  in  the  fashionable  levities  of  the  jn^Jt  and  gay. 
Am/in^.n  Y^er  acquaintances,  at  that  period,  we  find  Lady  Betty 
Finch,  daughter  of  Daniel,  Earl  of  S'ottingham,  who  bad  ja^ 
#^poijw^l  .\fr.  Murray,  afterwards  Loni  Mansfield ;  Lord  Town&- 
\tfitiA\  I^dy,  whose  wit  and  eccentricities  made  so  much  noise 

*  Anfhrmj  Fhmmofwl,  K<iq.  a  ComnnissLoiuer  cf  the  Narr.  and  some  tioie 
r»pr^U{Tifjitiv0t  in  Pkriiament  for  the  eiMinrrof  Huntinsrrfon/and  also  for  the 
I'mf^iitj  of  (lunbridt^,  vn»  very  frequendj  at  Lord  Huntingdon's  at  that 
p^'up>i.  With  him  wan  his  jkri,  James  Haramondf  the  elegiac  poet,  who«ef<une 
ttutt  ihtutiif.  were  rained  by  the  influence  of  Ladr  Huntingdon,  and  Lady  Fanoy 

Khirley,  t/#  wb^MM  hand  it  wan  beliered  he  Tainly  aspired to  whom  »ome  of  his 

Kl«ci^  are  tuppoaed  to  be  addressed.  He  died  at  Lord  Cobham**  hou^.  Stowe, 
wbif*  twmhtr  for  Truro,  in  Comvrall.  Thin  gentleman,  the  "  wlver  ton^ued  •* 
\Umfnim4  <4  Ijtprd  fk>tingbroke,  wh.  had,  ways  Lord  Chesterfield,  all  the  senses 
|ni(  rtmmtm  tenac,  was  a  relative  of  the  Shi'rley  family ;  he  married  the  eldest 
«lMiirblirr  t4  Hir  W.  f.larynn.  Bart.,  whose  fam:ly  made  a  triple  alliance  with  that 
*'^  t^f  If iintinfdfin  by  marriage.  At  the  same  time,  Somernle,  the  author  of 
ibtfr  **  Outfse,"  wa«  introduced  to  Lady  Huntingdon  by  the  eccentric  Ladr  Lux- 
lifffMiflrb,  the  tisCerof  Ixird  Bolingbroke. 

f  Umi  tbre#!  favourite  ladies  who  accompanied  the  King  from  Hanover  were 
Mit4^iutrt»t\\4*  Af  Hchulcnberg,  the  Countess  Plater,  and  Madam  Kilmanseg ; 
iUp  t\ni  alorif,  whom  be  created  Duehess  of  Kendal,  was  lodged  in  St.  James's 
Iht^Htf,  nnd  had  iiicb  respect  paid  her  as  very  much  confirmed  the  rumour  of  a 
l«ft  hntti^  marriagr.  Khe  was  mother  of  Lady  Chester6eld,  and  as  she  usually 
urm\M  at  fb«  King's  evening  partiet,  was  on  familiar  tenns  with  those  who 
rdriMPd  Idf  aodcty. 


SELINA5  COUNTESS  OF  RUVTIKGDON.  23 

during  a  great  part  of  the  last  century,*  and  Lady  Mary  Wortley 
Montagu,  (the  rival  of  Lady  Fanny  Shirley,)  who  was  the  life 
and  soul  of  the  Court  circle,  and  at  one  period  very  intimate 
with  Lady  Huntingdon,  though  her  senior  by  seventeen  years,f 
At  one  period  of  her  life,  Lady  Huntingdon  appears  to  have 
been  much  occupied  with  political  questions.      Her  sentiments 
were  conformable  with  those  of  Sir  Robert  Walpole  and  his 
Administration  ;  and  she  was  much  connected  with  the  courtiers 
of  that  day.     A  little  incident  which  occurred  at  this  period  will 
serve  to  mark  the   natural  ardour  of  her  character.     There 
were  some  stormy  debates  in  the  House  of  Lords,  in  May  1738, 
on  the  depredations  of  the  Spaniards,  in  which  Lord  Huntingdon) 
Lord  Hervey,  and  others  oi  his  intimate  friends  took  a  leading 
part.     Her  Ladyship  expressed  her  intention  of  being  present, 
though  ladies  were  excluded.     ^<  At  the  last  warm  debate  in  the 
House  of  Lords,  (says  Lady  Mary  Wortley  Montagu,)  it  was 
unanimously  resolved  there  should  be  no  unnecessary  auditors ; 
consequently  the  fair  sex  were  excluded,  and  the  ffallery  destined 
to  the  sole  use  of  the  House  of  Commons.     Notwitnstandinjg 
which  determination,  a  tribe  of  dames  resolved  to  show,  on  this 
occasion,  that  neither  men  nor  laws  could  resist  them*     These 
heroines  were  Lady  Huntinmion,  the  Duchess  of  Queensberry, 
the  Duchess  of  Ancaster,  Lady  Westmoreland,  Lady  Cobham, 
Lady   Charlotte  Edwin,   Lady  Archibald   Hamilton  and  her 
daughter  Mrs.  Scott,  Mrs.  Pendarves,  and  Lady  Frances  Saun- 
derson.     I  am  thus  particular  in  their  names,  since  I  looked 
upon  them  to  be  the  boldest  assertors  and  most  resigned  sufferers 
for  liberty  I  ever  read  of.     They  presented  themselves  at  the 
door  at  nme  o'clock  in  the  morning,  when  Sir  William  Saunderson 
respectfully  informed  them  that  the  Chancellor  had  made  an  order 
against  their  admittance.     The  Duchess  of  Queensbury,  as  head 
of  the  squadron,  <  pished'  at  the  ill-breeding  of  a  mere  lawyer, 
and  desired  Sir  William  to  let  them  up  stairs  privately.     After 
some  modoKt  refusals,  he  swore  be  would  not  admit  them.     Her 
Grace,  with  a  noble  warmth,  answered,  they  would  come  in,  in 
spite  of  the  Chancellor  and  the  whole  House.     This  being  re- 

*  She  was  the  first  who  extolled  the  preaching  of  Mr.  Whitefield,  whom 
she  alternately  liked  and  disliked.  Her  Ladyship  is  the  supposed  original  of 
Zoify  B^Luton  in  **  Tom  Jones/  and  Lady  Tempest  in  ^* Pomney  the  Littk.^ 
She  was  the  mother  of  George,  the  first  Marquis  Townshend,  ana  of  the  famous 
Charles  Townshend. 

t  On  her  return  from  the  continent,  at  Bir.  Pope^s  solicitation.  Lady  Bfary 
filed  her  summer  residence  at  Twickenham ;  but  it  was  not  long  before  she 
had  a  bitter  and  lasting  quarrel  with  that  irritable  bard ;  when  having  exhausted 
all  the  pleasures  that  England  could  afford,  and  disgusted  perhaps  at  that  aliena- 
tion woich  the  sarcasm  of  her  wit  had  too  often  produced,  she  obt4Aii^  her 
husbaod^s  leave  to  pass  the  remainder  of  her  days  on  the  contineDt. 


24  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

ported,  the  Peers  resolved  to  starve  them  out;  an  order  was 
made  that  the  doors  should  not  be  opened  till  they  had  raised 
their  siege.  These  Amazons  now  showed  themselves  qualified 
for  the  duty  even  of  foot-soldiers ;  they  stood  there  till  five  in 
the  afternoon,  without  sustenance,  every  now  and  then  plying 
volleys  of  thumps,^kicks,  and  raps,  with  so  much  violence  a^inst 
the  door,  that  the  speakers  in  the  House  were  scarce  heard.  When 
the  Lords  were  not  to  be  conquered  by  this,  the  two  Duchesses 
(very  well  apprised  of  the  use  of  stratagems  in  war)  commanded 
a  silence  of  half  an  hour ;  and  the  Chancellor,  who  thought  this 
a  certain  proof  of  their  absence  (the  Commons  also  being  very 
impatient  to  enter,)  gave  orders  for  the  opening  of  the  door, 
upon  which  they  all  rushed  in,  pushed  aside  their  competitors, 
and  placed  themselves  in  the  front  rows  of  the  gallery.  They 
stayed  there  till  after  eleven,  when  the  house  rose ;  and  during 
the  debate  gave  applause,  and  showed  marks  of  dislike,  not  only 
by  smiles  and  vnnks,  (which  have  always  been  allowed  in  these 
cases,)  but  by  noisy  laughs  and  apparent  contempts,  which  is 
supposed  the  true  reason  why  poor  Lord  Hervey*  spoke  so 
miserably." 

Her  high  birth,  of  course  entitled  Lady  Huntingdon  to  the 
society  and  respect  of  her  equals ;  and  Sarah,  Duchess  of  Marl- 
borough, and  Catherine,  Duchess  of  Buckingham,  were  her  cor* 
respondents.  The  former  and  her  sister,  the  Countess  of 
Tyrconnell,  were  two  of  the  most  remarkable  beauties  of  their 
day.  The  Duchess  of  Marlborough  was,  in  early  life,  appointed 
maid  of  honour  to  the  Duchess  of  York,  and  to  her  external 
attractions  added  what  was  rarely  met  with  in  those  days,  all  the 
witchery  of  mind  and  all  the  dignity  of  conscious  rectitude. 
Her  conversation  and  deportment  were  alike  irresistible,  from  a 

1'ust  and  delightful  mixture  of  softness  and  sprightliness :  a 
ittle  petulance  and  caprice  of  temper ;  a  little  heedlessness  of 
manner ;  a  good  deal  of  her  sex's  pride,  yet  more  of  its  vanity ; 
a  quickness  of  imagination,  which  sometimes  hurried  her  to  the 
verge  of  imprudence,  and  a  natural  acuteness  and  readiness  of 
wit  which  as  often  extricated  her ; — 

'<  Yielding  by  nature,  stubborn  but  for  fame," 

were  the  characteristics  of  this  woman's  masculine  mind  and 
intriguing  spirit,  which,  by  her  influence  in  the  Cabinet,  may  be 
said  to  have  swayed  the  destinies  of  Europe  with  greater  effect 
than  did  her  husband  by  his  talents  in  the  field.     Her  name  is 

•  Lord  Hervey  was  father  of  the  late  excellent  Lady  Mary  Fitzgerald,  the 
friend  and  correspondent  of  Lady  Huntingdon,  Mr.  Fletcher,  Mr.  Venn,  and 
others  alike  celebrated. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  25 

introduced  in  this  place,  however,  to  show  the  vanity  of  earthly 
triumphs.  Two  letters  from  her  Grace  of  Marlborough  to  Lady 
Huntmgdon,  written  about  this  time,  refer  principally  to  the 

E reaching  of  the  great  Methodist  leaders,  whom  her  Ladyship 
ad  invited  the  Duchess  to  hear : — 

"  My  dear  Lady  Huntingdon  is  always  so  very  good  to  me,  and  I 
really  do  feel  so  very  sensibly  all  your  kindness  and  attention,  that  I 
must  accept  your  very  obliging  invitation  to  accompany  you  to  hear  Mr. 
Whitefield,  though  I  am  still  suffering  from  the  effects  of  a  severe  cold. 
Your  concern  for  my  improvement  in  religious  knowledge  is  very 
obliging,  and  I  do  hope  that  I  shall  be  the  better  for  all  your  excellent 
advice.  God  knows  we  all  need  mending,  and  none  more  than  myself. 
r  have  lived  to  see  great  changes  in  the  world — have  acted  a  conspicu- 
ous part  myself — and  now  hope,  in  my  old  days,  to  obtain  mercy  from 
God,  as  I  never  expect  any  at  the  hands  of  my  fellow-creatiu*es.  The 
Duchess  of  Ancaster,  Lady  Townshend,  and  Lady  Cobham  were 
exceedingly  pleased  with  many  observations  in  Mr.  Wnitefield's  sermon 
at  St.  Sepulchre's  Church,  which  has  made  me  lament  ever  since  that 
I  did  not  hear  it,  as  it  might  have  been  the  means  of  doing  me  some 
good— ;/br  goodj  alas  /  I  do  want  :  but  where  among  the  corrupt  sons 
and  daughters  of  Adam  am  I  to  find  it  ?  Your  Ladyship  must  direct 
me.  You  are  all  goodness  and  kindness^  and  I  often  wish  I  had  a  por- 
tion of  it.  Women  of  wit,  beauty,  and  quality,  cannot  hear  too  many 
humiliating  truths — they  shock  our  pride.  But  we  must  die — we  must 
converse  with  earth  and  worms. 

"  Pray  do  me  the  favour  to  present  my  humble  service  to  your  ex- 
cellent spouse.  A  more  amiable  man  I  do  not  know  than  Lord  Hun- 
tingdon. And  believe  me,  my  dear  Madam^  your  most  faithful  and 
most  humble  servant,  ^*  S.  Mablborouoh." 

"  Your  letter,  my  dear  Madam,  vas  very  acceptable.  Many  thanks 
to  Lady  Fanny  for  her  good  wishes.  Any  communications  from  her, 
and  my  dear  good  Lady  Huntingdon,  are  always  welcome,  and  always 
in  every  particular  to  my  satisfaction.  /  have  no  comfort  in  my  own 
family y  therefore  must  look  for  that  pleasure  and  gratification  which 
others  can  impart.  I  hope  you  vr^  shortly  come  and  see  mc,  and  give 
me  more  of  your  company  than  I  have  had  latterly.  In  truth  I  always 
feel  more  happy  and  more  contented  after  an  hour's  conversation  with 
you,  than  I  do  after  a  whole  week's  round  of  amusement.  When 
ahne^  my  reflections  and  recollections  almost  kill  me^  and  I  am  forced 
to  fly  to  the  society  of  those  I  detest  and  abhor.  Now  there  is  Lady 
Frances  Saunderson's*  great  rout  to-morrow  night — all  the  world  will  be 
there,  and  I  must  go.  I  do  hate  that  woman  as  much  as  I  do  hate  a 
phvsician ;  but  I  must  go,  if  for  no  other  purpose  than  to  mortify  and 
spite  her.  This  is  very  wicked,  I  know,  but  I  confess  all  my  litde 
peccadillos  to  you,  for  I  know  your  goodness  will  lead  you  to  be  mild 

*  Lad^  Frances  was  one  of  the  daughters  of  the  Earl  of  Manchester,  and 
had  married  Henry,  the  son  and  heir  of  the  celebrated  Dr.  Robert  Saunderson, 
Bishop  of  Linooln. 


26  THE  LirE  AKD  TIMES  OW 

and  forgiving,  and  perhaps  my  wicked  heart  may  gain  some  good  from 
you  in  die  end. 

''  Make  my  kindest  respects  to  Lord  Huntingdon.  Lady  Fanny  has 
my  host  wishes  for  the  success  of  her  attack  on  that  crooked  perverse 
little  wretch  at  Twickenham.*  Assure  yourself,  my  dear  good 
Madam^  that  I  am  your  most  faithful  and  most  ohligcd  humhle  servant, 

**  S.  Mablbobguoh." 

This  very  conspicuous,  very  assailable,  and  very  irritable 
woman,  so  celebrated  for  quarrelling  with  all  the  rest  of  human 
kind,  always  took  in  good  part  whatever  Lady  Huntingdon 
said  or  wrote,  and  never  appears  to  have  been  affronted  or 
offended  by  the  bome-trutbs  which  she  must  have  heard  from 
her.f 

The  Duchess  of  Buckingham,  a  woman  perfectly  mad  with 
pride,  was  distantly  connected  with  Lady  Huntingdon's  family. 
Her  first  husband  the  Earl  of  Anglesey,  from  wnom  she  was 
separated  by  the  unanimous  consent  of  the  King  and  Parlia- 
ment, was  cousin-german  to  Charles  Annesley,  Esq.,  Captain  of 
the  Battle-Ate^Guard,  who  married  Lady  Levinge,  the  second 
wife  of  the  Right  Hon.  Sir  Richard  Levinge,  the  grandfather 
of  Lady  Huntingdon.  A  few  years  after  this  she  was  married  to 
John  Sheffield,  Duke  of  Buckingham,  died  at  her  house  in 
St  James's  Park,  (now  Buckingham  Palace,)  March  13,  1742, 

*  Alexander  Pope,  the  Poet. 

f  The  calmness  and  heavenly  peace  which  surrounded  Lady  Huntingdon 
were  powerful  enough  to  avoid  the  hurricanes  of  temper  to  which  this  singular 
woman  was  liable,  to  such  a  degree  that  she  would  punish  even  herself  rather 
than  forego  her  resentment  This  is  proved  by  the  well  known  story  of  her 
cutting  off  her  own  hair,  only  because  it  was  esteemed  her  most  beautiful  feature 
in  the  eyes  of  her  husband ;  on  whom  to  revenge  some  supposed  opposition  to 
her  sovereign  will,  she  disfigured  herself.  The  Duke  was  not  irritated  by  this 
rash  act,  which  the  Duchess  often  related  with  characteristic  candour,  weeping 
always,  as  she  wound  up  her  story,  iiath  the  remark,  that  after  his  death  she 
found  her  treasured  ringlets  in  the  cabinet  wherein  he  kept  whatever  he  esteemed 
most  precious. 

It  was  her  temper  that  involved  her  in  lawsuits  with  her  own  children.  Her 
eldest  grandson,  Robert  Earl  of  Sunderland,  died  before  he  had  forfeited  her 
favour.  Charles  was  no  sooner  elevated  to  his  father*8  dignity,  than  she  openly 
quarrelled  with,  and  in  the  Court  of  Chancery  pleaded  her  own  cause  against  him. 
bhe  accused  him  of  pawning  one  by  one  the  diamonds  in  the  famous  baldric  of 
the  great  Marlborough's  sword,  and  his  extravagance  gave  point  to  the  charge  t 
yet  John,  her  youngest  grandson,  who  was  no  less  profligate,  retained  her  favour 
in  the  midst  of  his  excesses.  Her  granddaughter.  Lady  Anne  Egerton,  was 
as  proud  as  the  Duchess  herself,  and  no  less  fiery ;  on  some  quarrel  between 
them,  the  Duchess  of  Marlborough  had  Lady  Anne's  picture  daubed  with  black, 
and  over  it  this  inscription — ^*  She  is  much  blacker  within."  With  her  the 
ruling  passion  was  strong  even  against  death.  About  four  years  before  her 
demise,  the  Duchess  was  attacked  by  a  dangerous  disease,  and  had  lain  a  grvut 
while  ill,  without  speaking :  her  physician,  believing  her  case  very  bad,  said, 
*'  She  must  be  blistered  or  she  will  die.**  Her  grace,  who  had  listened  with 
attention,  called  out,  **  I  won*t  be  blistered,  and  I  won*t  die  r  She  kept  her  word. 


SELINA5  COUHTESS  OP  HUKTTOODON.  S7 

and  was  publicly  interred  about  a  month  after  in  Westminster 
Abbey.  During  the  early  davs  of  Methodism,  her  Grace  occa- 
sionally attended  the  preacKing  of  Mr.  Whitefield  and  the 
Wesleys,  but  she  was  decidedly  opposed  to  the  doctrines  which 
they  promulgated.  In  a  short  epistle  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  she 
says : — 

*'  I  thank  your  Ladyship  for  the  information  concerning  the  Me- 
thodist preachers;  their  aoctrines  are  most  repulsive,  and  strongly 
tinctured  with  impertinence  and  disrespect  towi^ds  their  superiors,  in 
perpetually  endeavouring  to  level  all  ranks,  and  do  away  with  all 
distinctions.  It  is  monstrous  to  be  told,  that  you  have  a  heart  as  sinful 
as  the  common  wretches  Uiat  crawl  on  the  earth.  This  is  highly  offensive 
and  insulting ;  and  I  cannot  but  wonder  that  your  Ladyship  should 
relish  any  sentiments  so  much  at  variance  with  high  rank  and  good 
breeding. 

*'  Your  Ladyship  does  me  infinite  honour  by  your  obliging  inquiries 
after  my  health.  I  shall  be  most  happy  to  accept  your  kind  offer  ot 
accompanying  me  to  hear  your  favounte  preacher,  and  shall  wait  your 
arrival.  The  Duchess  of  Queensbury  insists  on  my  patronising  her  on 
this  occasion ;  eonsequently  she  will  be  an  addition  to  our  party. 

"  I  have  the  honour  to  be,  my  dear  Lady  Huntingdon^  your  Lady- 
ship s  most  faithful  and  obliged,  "  C.  Buckingham."* 

During  her  last  illness,  Lady  Huntingdon  made  some  efforts 
to  see  her,  but  from  a  short  note  which  remains,  written  by  one  of 
her  maids  of  honour,  there  is  reason  to  believe  the  attempt  was 
vain: — 

'^  The  Duchess  of  Buckingham  presents  her  compliments  to  the 
Countess  of  Huntingdon,  is  extremely  obliged  by  her  kind  offer  and 
attentions^  but  regrets  exceedingly  her  entire  inability  to  undergo  the 
fatigue  of  conversation. 

*' March  2,  1742." 

*  The  Duchess  was  avowedly  the  natural  daughter  of  King  James  the  Second ; 
•  but  supposed  to  be  realfy  the  daughter  of  Colonel  Graham,  an  admirer  of  her 
mother,  Ladv  Dorchester.  This  lady,  who  was  the  only  daughter  of  Sir 
Charles  Sedley,  the  celebrated  wit,  was  mistress  to  the  King,  and  had  a 
pension  of  five  thousand  per  annum  on  the  Irish  Establishment.  She  after- 
wards married  the  Earl  of  Portmore,  and  left  two  sons,  one  of  whom  suc- 
ceeded to  the  title,  and  was  grandfather  to  the  present  Earl.  The  Duchess 
was  so  proud  of  her  birth,  that  she  would  never  go  to  the  Court  of  Versailles, 
because  they  would  not  give  her  the  rank  of  Princess  of  the  blood.  She  not 
only  regidated  the  ceremony  of  her  own  burial,  and  dressed  up  the  waxen  figure 
of  herself  for  Westminster  Abbey,  but  had  shown  the  same  insensible  pride 
on  the  death  of  her  only  son,  the  last  duke  of  Buckingham,  dreasing  his 
figure,  and  sending  messages  to  her  friends,  that  if  thev  had  a  mind  to  see  him 
lie  in  state,  she  would  carry  them  in  conveniently  by  a  back  door.  She  sent  to 
the  old  Duchess  of  Marlborough  to  borrow  the  triumphal  car  that  bad  carried 
the  Duke^s  body.  Old  Sarah,  as  mad  and  as  proud  as  herself,  sent  her  word, 
**  that  it  had  carried  my  Lord  Marlborough,  and  should  i\e\  er  be  profaned  by 
any  other  corpse.**  Proud  Buckingham  returned,  "that  she  had  spoken  to  the 
undertakav  ud  b«  had  engaged  to  make  a  finer  car  for  tirentj  pooads  r 


28  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

The  Duchess  of  Queensbury,  to  whom  allusion  has  been 
made,  was  a  very  conspicuous  figure  in  the  circles  of  fashion  at 
this  period,  she  was  second  daughter  of  the  Earl  of  Clarendon 
and  Rochester,  and  celebrated  for  extraordinary  beauty,  wit, 
and  sprightliness,  by  Pope,  Swift,  and  other  poets,  particularly 
by  Prior,  in  one  of  his  well-known  ballads.  She  and  the  Duke 
were  forbid  the  Court  by  George  II.,  for  their  patronage  of  the 
poet  Gay,  but  were  received  by  Frederick,  Prince  of  Wales,  and 
the  Duke  had  an  appointment  in  his  household. 

At  one  period  of  her  life,  the  Duchess  was  much  affected  by 
the  preaching  of  the  first  Methodists,  whose  Ministry  she  con- 
stantly attended.  But  her  wit  and  beauty  drew  her  back  into 
the  vortex  of  dissipation,  and  she  appears  to  have  lost  all  trace 
of  the  impressions  which  had  been  made  on  her  mind  in  early 
life.  She  was  particularly  partial  to  the  preaching  of  Mr. 
Charles  Wesley  and  Mr.  Ingham,  who  occasionally  visited  Lon- 
don, and  were  extremely  popular.  Her  Grace  survived  both 
her  children,  one  of  whom  shot  himself  by  accident,  and  the 
other  died  from  the  fright  and  fatigue  he  underwent  at  Lisbon, 
at  the  time  of  the  destruction  of  that  city  by  the  great  earth- 
quake in  1755. 

A  deep  gloom  was  cast  over  the  family  and  connections  of 
Lady  Huntmgdon  at  this  time,  by  the  sudden  and  very  alarming 
illness  of  Charles  Cotes,  Esq.,  Member  of  Parliament  for  Tam- 
worth,  then  on  a  visit  at  Lord  Huntingdon's  house,  whilst 
attending  his  parliamentary  duties.  Dr.  Battie,  and  Mr. 
Cheselden,  head  surgeons  to  Chelsea  hospital,  were  in  daily 
attendance  on  Mr.  Cotes,  who  was  soon  pronounced  out  of 
danger,  and  in  a  few  weeks  completely  convalescent.  Religious 
subjects  were  frequently  discussed  during  the  visits  of  these 
medical  gentlemen ;  and,  on  one  occasion,  a  passage  in  the  begin- 
ning of  Mr.  Locke's  "  Reasonableness  of  Christianity,"  which 
implies  the  eternity  of  that  death  which  all  the  race  of  Adam 
were  exposed  to  by  his  transgression  until  redeemed  by  Christ, 
became  the  subject  of  warm  debate.  Mr.  Locke  explains,  1  Cor. 
V.  2'2,  ^^  As  in  Adam  all  die,  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be  made 
alive" — thus :  as  the  death  that  all  men  suffer  is  owing  to  Adam, 
so  the  life  that  all  shall  be  restored  to  again  is  procured  them 
by  Christ.  Dr.  Battie  diflfered  from  Lady  Huntingdon  and  Mr. 
Cheselden,  in  the  interpretation  of  this  passage ;  and  some  time 
after  communicated  to  nis  friends  the  result  of  his  reflections, 
in  a  pamphlet  printed  for  private  circulation.  Both  these  medi- 
cal gentlemen  were  men  of  singular  excellence,  and  esteemed 
the  first  men  in  their  profession.  One  of  the  daughters  of 
Dr.  Battie  was  the  wife  of  Admiral  Sir  Geoi^e  Young,  one 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  2^; 

of  the  bravest  officers  in  the  British  service.  The  only  child  of 
Mr.  Cheselden  was  married  to  the  above-mentioned  Mr.  Cotes, 
the  cousin  of  Lady  Huntingdon,  and  nephew  of  Lady  Fanny 
Shirley. 

Some  time  prior  to  this  period.  Lady  Huntingdon,  who  was 
distinguished  by  that  superiority  of  demeanour  which  is  acquired 
by  the  habit  of  intercourse  with  persons  of  the  most  cultivated 
talents  and  the  most  polished  manners,  had  formed  an  inti- 
macy with  Margaret  Cavendish  Harley,  only  daughter  and 
heir  of  the  Earl  of  Oxford,  who  had  married  the  Duke  of 
Portland,  a  lady  well  known  for  her  love  of  the  arts  and  her 
patronage  of  literature.  Their  friendship  was  cemented  by  her 
Ladyship's  frequent  visits  to  AVimpole,  in  Cambridgeshire,  the 
seat  of  Lord  Oxford,  a  nobleman  eminently  distinguished  for 
his  disinterestedness  both  in  public  and  private  lite,  and  re- 
spected as  one  of  the  principal  patrons  of  literature  in  his  age. 
His  Lordship  had  a  high  opinion  of  the  singular  worth  of  Lady 
Huntingdon,  whom  he  had  known  from  his  earHest  days,  and, 
when  near  his  death,  sent  for  her  to  attend  him  and  administer 
consolation  in  his  last  moments.  He  was  a  great  admirer  of 
Mr.  Whitefield's  eloquence,  and  often  attended  his  ministry ;  but 
barren  admiration  seems  to  have  been  the  utmost  effect  pro- 
duced on  the  mind  of  his  Lordship.  What  might  have  been 
the  result  of  Lady  Huntingdon's  faithful  and  heart-searching 
conversations  with  him,  in  his  dying  hours,  we  are  not  informed. 
He  died  at  his  house  in  Dover-street,  June  16,  1741,  and  was 
buried  in  Westminster  Abbey.  Lady  Mary  Wortley  Montagu, 
speaking  of  his  death,  says,  he  refused  all  remedies  till  too 
late.  His  Lordship's  valuable  collection  of  manuscripts  was 
preserved  by  his  Countess,  at  her  residence  in  Dover-street, 
till  her  ladyship,  for  the  service  of  the  public,  consented  to 
their  purchase  by  the  Parliament,  in  1754,  and  they  are  now 
deposited  in  the  British  Museum.  The  Harleian  Library  was 
the  choicest  and  most  extensive  in  England ;  and  the  catalogue 
of  its  literary  treasures  was  printed  in  two  large  folio  volumes. 
Lord  Oxford  was  only  forty-two  years  of  age  at  the  time  of  his 
decease. 

It  was  during  one  of  Lady  Huntingdon's  visits  to  Wimpole 
that  she  first  became  acquainted  with  Miss  Robinson,  a  lady 
perhaps  better  known  in  her  time  in  the  circles  of  fashion  and 
genius  than  any  of  her  contemporaries.  She  was  afterwards 
married  to  Mr.  Montagu,  a  man  eminent  for  his  acquirements 
in  science,  particularly  in  mathematics ;  and  much  beloved  and 
respected  for  his  amiable  character  and  strong  understanding. 
Lady  HuntingdoD^  with  a  large  circle  of  her  acquaintance,  was 


90  TRS  LITE  AND  TllfSS  09 

present  at  the  marriage  ceremony ;  and  her  Ladyship,  many 
years  after,  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  that  she  was  an  ex- 
emplary wife  to  a  man  much  older  than  herself,  and  proved 
herself  worthy  to  be  the  bosom  fi-iend  of  a  husband  whose  strict 
honour  and  mtegrity,  as  a  gentleman  and  a  member  of  Parlia- 
ment, were  not  less  conspicuous  than  his  unwearied  diligence 
and  deep  research  as  a  man  of  science. 

Lord  Lisbume  dying  about  this  time,  without  male  issue,  was 
succeeded  in  title  and  estates  by  his  next  brother,  Wilmof,  the 
third  Viscount  This  nobleman  was  on  terms  of  great  intimacy 
with  the  family  of  Lord  Huntingdon,  to  whom  he  had  been 
introduced  by  his  cousin.  Lady  Hinchinbroke,  the  mother  of 
John,  fourth  Earl  of  Sandwich.  Lord  Lisbume  had  married 
Miss  Watson,  of  Berwick-upon-Tweed,  a  woman  of  great 
excellence,  and  a  frequent  attendant  on  the  preaching  of  the 
first  Methodists.  Roused  by  their  powerful  mmistry  to  a  lively 
concern  for  eternal  things,  she  zealously  sought  to  diffuse  in  the 
circle  of  her  acquaintance  the  savour  of  those  truths  which  she 
loved  and  believed.  Her  Ladyship's  intimacy  with  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon was  considerably  increased  some  years  after  by  the 
marriage  of  her  son,  Lord  Lisbume,  with  Miss  Nightingale,  the 
only  daughter  of  Lady  Elizabeth  Nightingale,  and  the  niece  of 
Lady  Huntingdon. 

Lady  Hinchinbroke,  the  grand-daughter  to  the  Duke  of 
Montagu,  and  nearly  allied  to  those  ladies  of  epistolary  genius, 
Lady  Mary  Wortley  and  Mrs.  Montagu,  was  early  left  a  widow, 
and  was  afterwards  married  to  the  second  son  of  the  renowned 
Sir  Edward  Seymour,  Bart,  and  brother  to  the  eighth  Duke 
of  Somerset.  Her  Ladyship  had  many  domestic  afflictions, 
which  she  bore  with  patient  resignation  to  the  will  of  Heaven. 
Her  mind  was  deeply  imbued  with  a  sense  of  religion,  under  the 
powerful  ministry  of  these  great  Methodist  leaders,  and  there 
is  abundant  reason  to  believe  that  she  was  truly  converted  to 
God.  Her  early  acquaintance  with  Lady  Huntingdon  was  of 
essential  service  m  directing  her  attention  to  the  great  and  im- 
portant concerns  of  eternity ;  and,  in  one  of  her  letters  to  the 
Countess,  we  find  her  thus  expressing  herself: — 

<*  My  dear  Madam, — I  am  extremely  sensible  of  the  honour  your 
Ladyship  has  done  me  by  the  book  which  you  have  sent,  from  which 
I  expect  to  derive  much  grati6cation  and  inRtruction.  I  am  deeply 
indeotcd  to  your  kindness,  and  the  anxiety  you  have  manifested  at  all 
time«  for  my  spiritual  improvement.  Indeed,  I  stand  in  need  of  all 
your  sjrmpathy  and  all  your  imwearied  exertions,  for  I  feel  mjrself 
nttaily  hclrlttii  miierible,  and  guilftgr,  ia  iht  tight  of  Ueaveii;  and 


SELIKA)  COUKTSSS  OF  HUKTIKGDON.  31 

were  it  not  for  tbe  ray  of  hope  which  I  have  in  the  atoning  sacrifice  of 
Christy  would  be  driven  to  despair  and  ruin. 

^I  shall  have  much  pleasure  in  waitino;  on  your  Ladyship  to- 
morrow. Have  you  heard  where  Mr.  Whitefield  and  Mr.  Wesley  are 
to  preach  this  week  ?  With  kindest  regards  to  Lord  Huntingdon,  I 
remain,  my  dear  madam^  your  faithful  friend^  and  most  humble  servant, 

*'  E.  HiNCHlNBROKB.*'* 


CHAPTER  IIL 

Early  Mctbodists — Lay  Preaching — Mr.  Bowers — Mr.  Cennick — ItinerantSi* 
Ordination — Mr.  Maxfield — Mrs.  Wesley^s  opinion  of  his  call-^Mr.  Wesley^s 
8anctioD-..Bi8hop  of  Deny — FetterLane  Society — Conduct  of  the  Bbhops.1^ 
Opposition  without — Bickerings— Shaw — The  Moravians  —  Separation  in 
Fetter  Lane— First  Division — The  Society  in  Moorfield8.^£nthu8iasm — 
Pliiralities.->Bishop  Burnet — Mrs.  Mitchell — Anecdote — Charles  Wesley 
and  the  Mora viana— David  Taylors-General  Baptbts-*.Mr.  Bennett— Orace 
Murray-«^ohn  Nelson. 

Methodism,  from  the  reports  made  of  it,  and  the  place  it 
maintains  in  the  page  of  history,  is  so  well  known,  that  for  its 
advocates  to  try  and  conceal  anything  concerning  it  would  be  a 
vain  attempt,  even  were  they  so  disposed.  Such  was  the  art- 
lessness,  simplicity,  and  integrity  of  those  excellent  men,  on 
whose  life  and  doctrine  the  epithet  was  first  fixed  ;  and  so  fiar 
were  they  from  having  anything  of  the  deceitfulness  of  un- 
righteousness about  them,  that  their  rejoicing  was  this,  the 
testimony  of  their  conscience,  that  in  simplicity  and  godly  sin- 
cerity, not  with  fleshly  wisdom,  but  by  the  grace  of  Uod,  they 
had  their  conversation  in  the  world. 

They  came  forth  with  no  plan  before  them  but  that  which 

*  The  conduct  of  her  niother-in*law,  the  old  Lady  Sandwich,  had  left  an 
indelible  impression  on  her  mind,  which  spread  a  glo«m  over  her  latter  yeans 
Lord  Sandwich  being  confined,  and  denied  access  to  by  his  eccentric  CountesRR, 
was  rendered  so  much  a  cipher,  that  all  the  duties  of  his  station  devolved  upon 
Lord  Hinchinbroke,  who  was  an  able,  active,  and  spirited  young  man.  His 
extraordliiary  mother,  one  of  the  daughters  of  the  witty  and  repentant  Eail 
of  Rochester,  partook  of  all  the  fire  and  vivacity  of  her  father.  She  detested 
restraint  herself,  but  put  her  Lord  into  "  durance  vile  *'  in  hia  own  hon^e.  At 
his  death  she  quitted  England,  too  stupid,  she  said,  for  her,  and  resided  at  Paris, 
in  habits  of  intimrcy  with  the  Duchess  of  Orleans,  Mazarine,  Madame  de 
Berri,  the  Regent^s  daughter,  and  also  that  beautiful  octogenary,  the  Ninon  de 
L*Endk>6.  Unhappajr  Lord  Uiiidiuabrok«  died  ia  the  Uh^me  of  hia  weak 
but  worthy  liMftftr. 


32  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

they  supposed  would  have  been  executed  within  the  sphere  of  a 
pansh,  and  by  their  own  personal  exertion.  Had  they  foreseen 
the  extent  of  the  work  which  was  to  be  assigned  to  them,  and 
the  help  they  must  have  required,  being  themselves  devoted  to 
letters,  navmg  formed  a  just  estimate  of  literary  endowments, 
and  knowing  their  subservience  to  the  work  of  the  ministry,  it 
is  most  probable  that  men  of  such  qualifications  would  have  been 
the  persons  they  would  have  mainly  sought  and  solicited  to  take 
part  with  them  in  the  ministry.  But  such  was  the  providential 
appointment  they  were  under,  that  the  extent  of  their  work,  at 
the  first  commencement  of  it,  was  concealed  from  them ;  and 
the  help  provided  for  it  was  brought  to  them,  accompanied  with 
evidence  that  it  was  not  for  them  to  seek,  but  for  the  Lord  to 
send. 

The  first  example  of  lay-preaching  appears  to  have  been  set 
by  a  Mr.  Bowers,  who  is  not  otherwise  named  in  the  history  of 
Methodism.  Once,  after  Mr.  Whitefield  had  finished  a  sermon 
in  Islington  church-yard,  Mr.  Bowers  got  up  to  address  the 
people ;  Charles  Wesley  entreated  him  to  desist,  but  his  en- 
treaties were  disregarded.  Mr.  Bowers  preached  again  in  the 
streets  of  Oxford,  and,  after  a  severe  reproof  from  Charles 
Wesley,  confessed  that  he  had  done  wrong,  and  promised  he 
would  do  so  no  more.  Mr.  Wesley  had  formerly  appointed  Mr. 
Cennick  to  reside  at  Kingswood,  with  a  view  to  meet  the 
Society  as  often  as  he  could,  in  order  to  confirm  them  in  the 
ways  of  God,  either  by  reading  to  them,  or  by  prayer,  or  by 
exhortation.  The  want  of  an  assistant  of  this  kind  was  parti- 
cularly felt  in  London,  and  Mr. Wesley  being  compelled  to  leave 
town  on  some  important  business,  and  having  no  clergyman  to 
watch  over  the  flock  in  his  absence,  he  appointed  Mr.  Maxfield 
to  pray  with  the  people,  and  to  give  them  such  advice  as  he 
judged  to  be  needful.  Both  these  persons  were  men  of  great 
natural  powers,  and,  though  ultimately  both  separated  from  nim, 
they  did  honour  to  his  discernment,  and  never  disgraced  his 
choice. 

Lady  Huntingdon,  at  this  time,  was  a  constant  attendant  at 
Fetter-lane,  and  a  member  of  the  first  Methodist  Society 
formed  in  that  place.  Having  frequently  heard  Mr.  Maxwell 
pray,  she  at  lengtn  urged  him  to  expound  the  Scriptures.  He 
was  remarkably  useful,  and  excited  the  astonishment  of  those 
who  heard  him.  Her  Ladyship  having  heard  him  several  times 
with  pleasure  and  profit,  wrote  to  Mr.  Wesley  in  terms  of  high 
commendation : 

<(  I  never  mentioned  to  you  that  I  have  seen  Maxfield  :  he  is  one  of 
the  greatest  instaaces  of  God's  p^euUar  favour  that  I  know :  he  is 


SELINA,  CODNTEiSS  OF  tiUNTliTGDON.  3^ 

raised  ftbm  the  stones  to  sit  among  the  princes  of  his  people.  He  is 
my  astonishment !  How  is  God's  power  shown  in  weakness !  You 
can  have  no  idea  what  an  attachment  I  have  to  him.  He  is  highly 
favoured  of  the  Lord.  The  first  time  I  made  him  expound^  expecting 
little  from  him^  I  sat  over  against  hini^  and  thought  what  a  power  of 
God  must  he  with  him  to  make  me  give  attention  to  him.  But  heforo 
he  had  gone  over  one  fifth  part,  any  one  that  had  seen  me  would  have 
thought  I  had  heen  made  of  wood  or  stone ;  so  quite  immoveahle  I  hoth 
felt  and  looked.  His  power  in  prayer  is  quite  extraordinary.  To  deal 
plainly,  I  could  either  talk  or  write  for  an  hour  about  him." 

This  letter  was  written  the  latter  end  of  the  year  1739,  or 
beginning  of  1740  ;  and  is  no  inconsiderable  testimony  in  favour 
of  Mr.  Maxfield,  especially  from  so  excellent  and  extraordinary 
a  character  in  the  Church  of  God. 

From  expounding  to  preaching  is  an  easy  step.  It  is  certain 
Mr.  Wesley  had  not  the  most  distant  idea  of  his  attempting  to 
preach,  nor  does  it  appear  that  Mr.  Maxfield  had  any  such 
mtention  himself.  Being  fervent  in  spirit,  and  mighty  in  the 
Scriptures,  he  greatly  profited  the  people.  Multitudes  crowded 
to  hear  him ;  and  by  tne  increase  of  their  number,  as  well  as  by 
their  earnest  and  deep  attention,  and  the  urgent  entreaties  of 
Lady  Huntingdon,  he  was  insensibly  led  to  go  further  than  he 
had  at  first  designed,  and  at  last  began  to  preach  1  The  Lord 
so  blessed  his  word  that  many  were  not  only  deeply  awakened 
and  brought  to  repentance,  but  were  also  made  happy  in  a 
consciousness  of  pardon.  The  Scripture  marks  of  true  con- 
version, inward  peace,  and  power  to  walk  in  all  holiness,  evinced 
the  work  of  God. 

Mr.  Maxfield  was,  therefore,  the  first  itinerant  lay-preacher 
thrust  forth  among  the  people,  and  thus  Lady  Huntingdon  was 
the  honoured  instrument  of  sending  this  new  and  unwearied 
sickle  into  the  harvest ;  and  to  old  age  she  retained  a  firm  re- 
gard for  one,  of  whom  in  early  life  she  had  so  highly  spoken. 
After  Mr.  Maxfield  had  laboured  faithfully  and  successfully  for 
a  few  years,  he  received  episcopal  ordination  from  the  Bishop 
of  Derry,  who,  during  a  residence  at  Bath  for  the  benefit  of  his 
health,  frequently  attended  the  ministry  of  Mr.  Whitefield, 
Mr.  Romaine,  Mr.  Fletcher,  and  others,  at  the  chapel  of  Lady 
Huntingdon  in  that  city,  whither  he  was  led  by  her  Ladyship's 
relative,  the  Lady  Betty  Cobbe.  On  receiving  Mr.  Maxheld  at 
Mr.  Wesley's  particular  recommendation,  the  Bishop  said  the 
following  remarkable  words  : — ^^  Sir,  I  ordain  you  to  assist  that 
good  man,  that  he  may  not  work  himself  to  death." 

Mr.  Maxfield  was  for  several  years  stationed  in  London ;  and 
his  withdrawing  from  Mr.  Wesley  was  a  great  blow  to  the  latter^ 

VOL.  I. — D 


34  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

as  it  occasioned  hiaf  a  loss  of  no  less  than  six  hundred  of  his  mem- 
bers. Mr.  Wesley  was  so  deeply  affected  at  it,  that  he  feelingly, 
and  with  tears,  preached  from  that  pathetic  passage,  "  If  I  am 
bereaved  of  my  children,  I  am  bereaved."  Mr.  Alaxfield,  after 
this,  had  a  very  large  chapel  in  Princes-street,  in  the  neighbour- 
hood of  Moornelds,  where  he  was  made  very  useful  for  many 
years.  He  also  freauently  preached  in  the  chapels  of  Lady 
Huntingdon,  particularly  at  Bath;  and  often  supplied  the 
parish  of  Everton,  durinfif  the  absence  of  Mr.  Berridge  in  his 
itinerant  excursions  for  Lady  Huntingdon.  At  one  time  Mr. 
Maxfield  was  situated  near  South  Petherton,  and  was  made  the 
instrument  of  much  benefit  to  the  late  well-known  Dr.  Cope,  at 
that  period  curate  of  Petherton.  Mr.  Maxfield  died  very  sud- 
denlvy  of  a  paralytic  stroke,  but  undoubtedly  he  was  prepared 
for  the  solemn  change,  and  was,  therefore,  thus  suddenly  trans- 
lated to  that  glorious  "  rest  which  remaineth  for  the  people  of 
God."  Mr.  Maxfield  having  thus,  as  some  thought,  usurped  the 
sacred  office  without  a  re^lar  call,  gave  great  offence  to  many ; 
and  however  successful  his  preaching,  it  was  represented  to  Mr. 
Wesley  as  an  irregularity  which  it  required  his  presence  to  put 
a  stop  to,  and  he  was  requested  to  hasten  to  London  without 
delay,  in  order  to  arrest  the  evil  in  its  progress.  His  mother 
lived  at  that  time  in  his  house  adjoining  the  Foundry.  She  was 
a  woman  of  deep  piety,  strong  sense,  and  sound  judgment  in  the 
things  of  God :  she  had  heajrd  Mr.  Maxfield  preach,  and  was 
fully  persuaded  that  he  was  called  of  God  to  the  work  of  the 
ministry.  Perceiving  marks  of  displeasure  in  the  countenance 
of  her  son  on  his  arrival,  she  inquired  the  cause.  He  warmly 
replied,  "  Thomas  Maxfield  has  turned  preacher,  I  find."  Mrs. 
Wesley  looked  at  him  seriously,  and  said,  **  John,  you  know 
what  my  sentiments  have  been;  you  cannot  suspect  me  of 
favouring  readily  anything  of  this  kind ;  but  take  care  what  you 
do  with  respect  to  tnat  young  man,  for  he  is  as  surely  called  of 
God  to  preach  as  you  are.  Examine  what  have  been  the  fruits 
of  hb  preaching,  and  hear  him  also  yourself." 

Mr.  Wesley  was  always  ready  to  correct  any  part  of  his  con- 
duct, or  system,  as  soon  as  he  discovered  it  was  mconvenient  or 
erroneous.  He  was  too  wise  a  man  to  be  obstinate,  and  too 
sincere  in  all  his  actions  to  feel  any  reluctance  at  acknowledging 
that  he  had  been  mistaken.  He  heard  Mr.  Maxfield  preach, 
and  expressed  at  once  his  satisfaction  and  his  sanction,  by 
saying,  "  It  is  the  Lord ;  let  Him  do  what  seemeth  to  Him  good. 
He  saw  that  it  was  impossible  to  prevent  his  followers  from 
preachinff,  and  with  admirable  reaoiness  resolved  to  lead  the 
stream  mich  it  was  beyond  his  power  to  turn.   From  that  time, 


SELINA,  COUNT£8S  OF  ^UNTINtiDOK.  35 

tbereforei  he  admitted  volunteers  whom  he  Ihoiigfat  qualified  to 
serve  him,  as  ^*  sous  in  the  Gospel ;"  but  always  on  conditioft 
that  they  should  labour  where  he  appointed,  because  otherwise 
they  would  have  stood  in  each  others  way. 

The  Methodists  still  continued  to  attract  considerable  atten* 
tion,  and  the  persoas  of  rank  who  attended  their  ministry 
became  objects  of  notoriety.  ^^The  Methodists,"  says  the 
Countess  of  Hertford,  ^^  have  had  the  honour  to  convert  my 
Lord  and  Lady  Huntingdon  both  to  their  doctrines  and  practice; 
and  the  town  says  that  Lady  Margaret  Hastings  is  certainly  to 
marry  one  of  the  preachers,  whose  name  is  Ingham."  ^  The 
news  I  have  heard  from  London^  is,"  writes  Lady  Mary  Wortley 
Montagu,  from  Rome,   <  Ladv    Margaret   Haestin^  has   dis-- 

Eosed  of  herself  to  a  poor  wanaering  Methodist  I"  The  irrego* 
irtty  of  Mr.  Wesley's  and  Mr.  Whitefield*s  proceedings — 
their  frequent  practice  of  field-preaching — and  particularly  the 
encouragement  they  now  ganre  to  lay-preachers,  were  thought 
sufficient  causes  of  alarm  and  discontent  ta  the  careless,  and 
even  to  the  more  regular  part  of  their  brother  clergymen.  The 
spirit  of  opposition  was  consequently  excited  in  the  minds  of  all 
tnofie  who  either  did  not  understand,  or  did  not  ai>pvove,  the 
doctrine  and  practices  of  the  infaot  sect.  Most  of  tee  cburcbee 
were  now  shut  against  them.  Every  thing  that  railii^  aad 
calumny  could  efi^  was  employed  to  erush  the  new  doctnne. 
The  sober  part  of  the  clergy  lamented,  and  laboured  to  cheeky 
the  rising  spirit  of  enthusiasm;  whiJie  the  lethai^  and  the 
vicious  employed  the  base  arts  of  persecution  and  misr epreseai^ 
ation,  to  safle  that  disposition  ta  enquiry  which  now  began  se 
much  to  prevail  among  the  people. 

Nor  was  opposition  from  the  enemies  of  Methodism  among 
its  greatest  troubles.  Whilst  the  societies  had  fightings  without, 
they  were  harassed  by  fears  within ;  and  although  they  increased 
in  number  daily,  yet  intestine  bickerings  and  misundecstaoding* 
began  to  threaten  their  very  existence. 

Some  of  the  Fetter- lane  brethren  meantime  bad  pursued  their 
master^s  fundamental  principle  further  than  he  had  any  intenlioe 
of  following  it.  A  layman,  whose  name  was  Shaw,  embraced 
the  notion,  that  any  Christian  mifi;bt  preach  and  administer  the 
Sacraments ;  and  tliat,  in  ^ct,  Christianity  knew  nothing  of  any 
distinctive  order  of  men,  as  spiritual  church-officers.  Such  a 
teacher  found  ready  believers ;  and  two  or  three  more  ardent 
innovators  began  to  trouble  the  brethren  with  their  speculations^ 
and  to  disturb  their  meetings  by  unseasonable  intrusions.  Lady 
Huntingdon,  set  her  face  against  the  leaders  of  this  faction,  wh^ 
althongi  hyneoy  daaaed  a  aigfat  to  baptize^  and  adtoiaisteB  the 
D  2 


06  tHE  LlVt  Al^D  TIMES  OF 

Lord's  Supper ;  and,  at  a  meeting  held  at  her  Ladyship's  hous^^ 
it  was  unanimously  agreed  by  Mr.  Ingham,  Mr.  Stonhouse,  and 
others,  that  she  should  write  an  account  of  these  proceedings  to 
Mr.  Wesley,  and  urge  his  presence  in  London  as  speedily  as 
possible. 

Many  of  the  Moravians  had  joined  the  society  in  Fetter- 
lane,  and  now  began  to  introduce  some  fatal  errors  among  them. 
All  was  confusion.     By  some  it  was  contended,  that  believers 
had  nothing  to  do  with  the  ordinances — ^were  not  subject  to  them 
— and  ought  to  be  still :  that  they  ought  to  leave  off  the  means 
of  grace;  and  not  go  to  church;  not  to  communicate;  not  to 
search  the  Scriptures ;  not  to  use  private  prayer,  till  they  had 
living  faith ;  and  to  be  still  till  they  had  it.     And  it  was  further 
explicitly  affirmed,  that  there  were  no  degrees  in  faith — that 
none  had  any  feith  who  had  ever  any  doubt  or  fear,  and  that 
none  were  justiBed,  till  they  had  clean  hearts,  with  the  perpetual 
indwelling  of  Christ,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost — and  tnat  every 
one  who  had  not  this,  ought,  till  he  had  it,  to  be  still — that  is, 
as  it  was  explained,  not  to  use  the  ordinances,  or  means  of  grace 
so  called.     At  length  matters  came  to  a  crisis,  and  a  division 
was  unavoidable.      On  Mr.  Wesley's  arrival,  much  time  was 
spent  in  useless  debate,  and  fruitless  attempts  to  reclaim  those 
who  had  erred  from  the  faith.      A  meeting  was  held  at  his 
mother's,   at   which    Lady   Huntingdon   attended,   and   after 
prayer  and  much  deliberation,  it  was  unanimously  agreed  what 
steps  should  be  taken  with  regard  to  their  brethren  of  Fetter- 
lane.     Mr.  Ingham,  being  about  to  leave  London,  preached  to 
the  society,  and  bore  a  noble  testimony  to  the  ordinances  of 
God,  and  the  reality  of  real  faith.     But  the  short  answer  was, 
"  You  are  blind,  and  speak  of  the  things  you  know  not."     The 
following  Sunday  Mr.  Wesley  preached  in  Moorfields :    and, 
accompanied  by  Lady  Huntingdon,  Mr.  Seward,  and  others, 
went  in  the  evening  to  the  love-feast  in  Fetter-lane,  at  the  con- 
clusion of  which  he  read  a  prayer,  expressive  of  his  belief,  and 
his  abhorrence  of  the  errors  into  which  they  had  fallen.     He 
then  withdrew,  and  was  followed  by  a  very  small  portion  of  the 
society. 

This  was  the  first  division  amongst  the  Methodists.  After 
the  withdrawal  of  Mr.  Wesley  and  his  friends,  the  Moravians 
retained  quiet  possession  of  the  meeting-house,  and  received 
large  additions  to  their  numbers.  It  is  still  in  the  possession  of 
the  united  brethren,  and  is  known  under  the  name  of  Neville's- 
court  In  the  room  of  this  place,  the  Foundry,  in  Upper 
Moorfields,  was  engaged,  and  thither  the  feeble  remains  of  the 
society  repaired.  There  the  first  Methodists  continued  to  meet. 


SELINAy  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  37 

till  the  differences  between  Mr.  Whitefield  and  Mr.  Wesley 
caused  another  separation  to  take  place.  Thus  the  chapel  in 
Fetter-lane  was  the  original  cradle  of  the  whole  Metnodist 
body!  There  the  ^r^^  society  was  formed — there  likewise  the 
first  lay  preachers  commenced  their  immensely  blessed  labours 
— there  the  noble  Countess,  destined  to  take  such  a  prominent 
lead  in  the  great  revival  of  religion — there  the  great  leaders  in 
this  glorious  warfare,  with  their  zealous  coadjutors— persons 
whose  whole  souls  were  consecrated  to  the  cause  of  God  our 
Saviour-— often  took  sweet  counsel  together.  They  have  all  long 
since  gone  to  their  rest,  to  meet  in  the  better  temple  together, 
as  they  have  often  worshipped  in  the  temple  below,  and  to  go 
out  no  more. 

There  is  in  every  new  community  a  superior  energy^  a  pecu- 
liar fervour  in  the  early  days  of  its  existence,  which  is  heightened 
by  an  opposition  from  the  world,  that  harasses  but  does  not 
crush.  This  enei^  was  evident  in  the  beginning  of  Christianity; 
it  appeared  again  at  the  reformation  from  Popery;  it  was  roused 
once  more  at  the  era  of  nonconformity ;  and  at  the  period  of 
which  we  speak,  was  in  full  force  among  the  Methodists.  It  is  a 
pleasing  and  commendable  spirit,  but  enthusiasm  sometimes 
lurks  under  the  name,  and  wholly  occupies  the  place  of  piety, 
or  almost  pushes  religion  out  of  the  heart  Indeed,  in  every 
revival  of  tne  Church  of  Christ,  even  where  the  pure  truth  is 

f»reached  with  the  greatest  wisdom  and  sobriety,  it  has  been 
ound  that,  in  numerous  instances,  while  the  passions  were  moved 
almost  to  extasV)  the  soul  has  not  been  truly  renewed.  Enthu- 
siasm and  fanaticism  were  the  epithets  bestowed  on  Methodism 
by  the  regular  clergy.  The  Methodists  may  perhaps,  in  some  in- 
stances, have  been  wanting  in  candour  towards  the  elergy :  and 
under  the  feeling  of  personal  insult,  or  of  zeal  arismg  out  of 
general  apathy,  may  have  employed  epithets  not  sufficiently 
courteous ;  nevertheless  the  general  conduct  of  many  of  the  clergy 
deserved  the  severest  reprehension.  Their  ignorance  and  irre- 
ligion  were  become  proverbial.  Although  they  were  amply  paid 
to  instruct  the  people  in  Christianity,  yet  the  amount  of  their 
labours  was  a  dry  critical  discourse  on  a  Sunday,  which  charmed 
their  hearers  to  sleep,  and  left  them  as  lukewarm  as  their 
teachers.  With  the  doctrines  of  religion  they  never  meddled, 
nor  did  they  attempt  to  arouse  the  affections  by  any  of  the 
motives  that  may  be  supposed  to  influence  the  human  heart 
in  the  pursuit  of  an  important  object.  It  is  no  wonder,  there- 
fore, that  infidelity  prevailed ;  and  as  the  civil  government  was 
mild  and  tolerant,  the  most  barefaced  attacks  were  made  upon 
the  truths  of  Christianit)%    This  afforded  a  new  topic  for  the 


as  THE  MFC  AND  TIMES 

discourse  of  the  clergy,  but  as  little  conduare  to  edification 
as  the  fonner,  while  the  religion  of  the  heart  was  neglected. 
At  this  critical  juncture,  the  Methodists  sprung  up,  to  awaken 
the  energies  of  the  Establishment,  and  to  instil  new  hfe  and 
vigour  into   the  different  sects.     Animated  by  an  apostolic 
seal,  they  burst  the  fetters  of  sectarian  bigotry,  and  went  forth 
preaching  the  glad  tidings  of  the  Gospel  to  all  grades  and 
classes  of  their  counti'ymen.    The  boundless  labours  of  these 
energetic  men  gave  great  offence  to  the  more  cold  and  regular 
brethren,  who,  alarmed  at  their  popularity,  and  put  to  shame  by 
their  diligence,  endeavoured  to  silence  them  by  episcopal  autho- 
rity, and  by  various  acts  of  persecution.     Lampoonea  in  pam- 
phlets, belied  in  newspapers,  threatened  by  men  in  authority, 
and  robbed  by  those  of  the  baser  sort,  the  Methodists,  however, 
persevered  with  fervour  and  constancy  in  their  work;  and  their 
extraordinary  courage,  zeal,  and  activity,  in   this  noble  cause, 
randered  them  a  perpetual  thorn  in  the  sides  of  the  Bishops, 
who  left  no  engine  unemployed,  either  to  silence  or  ruin  them. 
When  some  person  complained  to  George  II.  of  Mr.  White- 
field's  popularity  and  success,  and  recommendrd  some  restraint 
upon  his  preaching,  the  monarch  answered  with  jocose  severi^ 
— ^<  I  believe  the  best  way  will  be  to  make  a  Bishop  of  him  r 
But  all  the  thunder  of  the  Episcopal  Bench  was  ineffectual 
to  stay  the  Methodists  in  their  course.     Sincere  in  the  cause 
they  nad  undertaken,  opposition  only  served  as  a  stimulus, 
and  abundant   success  attended   their  exertions.     From    this 
time,  the  cause  of  religion  revived  and  prospered  in  the  Esta- 
blishment, and  a  flame  was  kindled  in  the  nation,  which  has  con- 
tinued burning  to  the  present  day.     The  duty  enjoined  on  all 
Methodists  to  propagate  the  spirit  of  religion,  and  the  unwearied 
endeavours  of  almost  every  inaividual  to  convert  his  neighbours, 
confer  the  most  distinguished  honour  on  their  system.   From  the 
days  of  the  Apostles,  the  great  principle  ^<  that  it  is  the  duty  of 
every  Christian  to  endeavour  to  convert  sinners  from  the  evil 
of  their  ways,"  \\as  never  so  fully  acted  upon  as  by  the  English 
Methodists  of  both  divisions.     iThis  assertion  we  'make  boldly ; 
for  at  the  period  of  the  Reformation  itself  the  great  object  was 
to  work  a  national  and  outward  change  in  thefotTn  more  than  in 
the  spirit  of  religion :  the  reformation  of  the  Methodists  aimed 
at  the  heart. 

For  their  discourses,  too,  the  Methodists  are  entitled  to  sin- 
gular praise.  The  talents  of  the  leaders  are  known,  and  some 
of  their  helpers  were  men  of  ability,  knowledge,  and  wisdom,  as 
well  as  leal.     With  respect  to  the  greater  part  of  them,  as  to 

9thod,  propriety  of  language,  and  delivery,  they  were  exceed- 


SELINA,   COUNTESS  OP   HUNTINGDON.  99 

ingly  defective ;  but  in  the  choice  of  subjects,  and  in  bearing 
upon  the  great  design  of  their  ministry^  they  have  scarcely  been 
equalled.  To  convert  sinners  was  their  business  and  their  object, 
and  they  kept  it  in  view  with  a  steadiness  and  perseverance  of 
which  there  nas  perhaps  not  been  another  instance  in  any  sect 
of  the  Christian  Church.  In  the  edification  of  believers  they  de- 
pended more  on  their  power  of  animation,  and  their  knowledge 
of  practical  religion,  than  on  the  resources  of  artificial  eloquence 
ana  minute  points  of  controversy ;  but  in  plain,  earnest,  forcible, 
and  highly-impassioned  addresses  to  the  impenitent,  they  are  a 
pattern  to  all,  and  their  labours  were  accompanied  with  success 
in  an  uncommon  degree.  This  practice  has  since  been  adopted 
by  the  evangelical  preachers  of  every  other  denomination  in 
England,  so  mr  as  it  suits  the  circumstances  of  such  as  officiate 
in  stated  congregations.  The  subject  is  kept  more  constantly 
in  view  than  it  was  before ;  scarcely  a  discourse  is  preached,  in 
which  the  conversion  of  a  sinner  to  God  is  not  hinted  at,  and  in 
some  measure  explained  and  enforced.  The  practice  is  saix> 
tioned  by  its  success. 

On  the  subject  of  pluralities,  Lady  Huntingdon  always  spoke 
with  marked  disapprobation.  **The  awful  responsibility  of  such 
men  (says  her  Ladyship),  makes  me  tremble.  How  tne  blood 
of  lost,  neglected  souls  will  cry  against  them  in  that  ^reat  d^ 
when  the  cnief  Shepherd  shall  summon  them  to  his  tribunal  r 
She  was  fond  of  relating  an  anecdote  of  that  excellent  and  con- 
scientious prelate,  Bishop  Burnet,  who^  in  his  chaige  to  the 
clergy  c^  his  diocese,  with  disinterested  integrity  exclaimed  against 
pluralities^  as  a  most  sacrilegious  robbery.  In  his  first  visitation 
at  Salisbury,  he  urged  the  authority  of  St  Bemaixl,  who,  being 
consulted  by  one  <S  his  followers,  whether  he  might  accept  of 
two  benefices,  replied,  *^  And  how  will  you  be  able  to  seive  tnem 
both  ? — I  intend  (answered  the  priest)  to  officiate  in  one  of  them 
by  a  deputy. — Will  your  deputy  oe  damned  for  you  too  ?  cried 
the  saint  Believe  me,  you  may  serve  your  cure  by  proxy,  but 
you  must  be  damned  in  person.' 

<^  I  venerate  the  memory  of  this  good  prelate  (says  her  Ladj- 
ship) ;  and  I  love  those  who  have  descended  from  him,  praying 
that  the  like  fiaith  which  was  in  him  may  be  in  them  also." 
Richard  West^  Esq.,  only  son  of  Lord  ChaAceQor  We^  of 
Ireland,  by  Elitabetb,  daiis^hter  of  Bishop  Burnet,  was  a  great 
favourite  with  Lord  and  Lady  Huntingdon ;  but  in  174*2,  & 
rapid  consumption  terminated  his  brief  career,  in  the  fi6tb  year 
of  hisage.  In  a  letter  to  Mr.  Wesley,  her  Lady^ippathetieally 
laments  die  death  of  this  young  man,  whose  piety  and  talents 
bid  &ir  for  exten^ve  usefulness.    For  Mrs.  Mftchell,  a  daughter 


40  THE  UTL  ASD  TUfCS  OF 

of  tho  RUhop*s  Lady  Huntu^gdoo  had  a  great  esteem.  SIm 
a  woman  of  gnnit  uiety  and  benefoleiice^  and  nas  ofken  hcmtd 
to  wiy,  that  not  being  able  to  do  more  good  was  the  greatest 
bunion  which  attended  her  throii^  life,  and  the  infinite  metrv 
of  God  in  Christ  Jesus  her  only  refiige  and  chief  support  in  tlie 

C»spoct  of  dissolution.  She  was  Teiy  frequent  in  her  visits  to 
dy  Huntingdon)  who  used  to  take  great  del^t  in  her  oomrer- 
Mition.  »^  I  was  well  acquainted  with  Mrs.  Mitchell*(says  her 
Ladyship);  she  was  the  daughter  of  Bishop  Burnet,  one  of  Teiy 
superior  parts,  and  an  exceUent  woman."  To  the  best  of  my 
memory,  from  her  I  hail  the  following  pleasant  fiurt  conrejed  to 
my  still  admiring  mind : — 

^'Her  father,  the  Bishop,  firom  his  leakvos  care  of  bit  diocese^  made 
it  a  rule  yearly  to  visit  the  Tarioas  wisIms  of  whirb it  was  composed; 
and  treated  ^ith  the  most  disdiigoistied  regard,  sodi  ministen  as  were 
eminent  for  their  piety,  and  most  atteutiTe  in  their  care  of  the  sools  of  the 
people.  One  of  those  had  fir^uendj  expressed  the  great  impoitanee 
of  well  understanding  our  Lord's  meaning  of  the  bettitodes,  and  of 
this  in  porticalaf— B^^SMk/  art  ike  meek^forA^Ma  imierii  ike  eartk. 
Many  anxious  inqoiries  yet  left  this  gradoos  minister  nnssfisfied  in  his 
own  mind  of  the  just  and  tree  explanation,  and  many  piajers  were 
added  to  prevent  any  partial  view  ot  basty  c^plnion  from  being  adopted 
by  him. 

<^  In  this  unresolved  state,  he  took  a  morning's  walk  some  considerable 
distance  from  bis  parish,  and  observing  a  habitation  more  wretdied 
than  any  he  had  before  seen,  walked  towards  it,  and  to  bis  surprise  beard 
a  voice  of  great  joyous  praise :  drawing  nearer,  he  heard  it  as  that 
of  an  individual  only.  He  wanted  to  learn  the  cause,  and,  looking  in 
at  the  window,  viewed  the  poor  inhabitant  in  the  most  wTetched  i^bate 
of  outward  want  and  poverty  that  he  had  ever  beheld.  She  had  on  a 
little  stool  before  her  a  piece  of  black  bread  and  a  cup  of  cold  water ; 
and  with  her  eyes  and  hands  lifted  up  to  heaven,  as  in  a  rapture  of 
praise,  repeated  these  words — H^hat !  all  tki^  and  Jesus  Chrisi  too  ? 
JVhat !  ail  tkis^  and  Jesus  Christ  too?  It  wants  not  to  be  added,  that 
with  the  living  lesson  which  this  blessed  man  here  learnt,  he  with  holy 
gratitude  returned,  well  understanding  who  only  inherited,  in  our  Lord  s 
sense,  the  whole  earth,  by  possessing  Him.  And  thus  we  best  find  out 
the  supposed  paradox  of  St  Paul :  as  having  nothing,  yet  possessing 
all  thmgs." 

•  Mn.  Mary  Mitchell  died  at  her  house  in  Hart-street  Bloomsbury,  December 
18,1773,  and  was  interred  in  St.  James's  Church,  Clerkenwell,  near  the  remains 
of  her  Tenerable  fitther.  On  takinf^  down  the  old  Church,  in  September  1 778,  the 
Bishop*s  remains  were  unavoidably  disturbed.  His  body  was  found  in  a  leaden 
coffin,  broken  at  the^head,  through  which  the  skull  and  some  hair  was  visible. 
The  Bishop  left  three  sons — William,  Governor  of  New  York  and  the  Massa- 
chusetts ;  uilbert,  in  holy  orders,  who  took  an  active  part  on  the  side  of  Bishop 
Hoadley,  in  the  Bangorian  controversy ;  and  Sir  Thomas,  who  became  one  of 
the  best  lawvers  of  his  time  :  Sergeant  and  Justice  of  the  Common  Pleas. 
He  pubUf beo  the  posthumous  history  of  his  father,  and  died  in  I75S. 


SEL1NA5  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINODOV.  41 

Mr.  Wesley  had  at  this  time  some  cause  for  apprehending  a 
division,  which  would  have  grieved  him  far  more  tnan  anything 
which  had  occurred  to  him.  His  brother  Charles,  who  had 
assisted  him  so  cordially  in  opposing  the  errors  which  sprang  up 
among  the  members  of  the  society  in  Fetter-lane,  was  inchned 
to  side  with  the  Moravians,  and  proceeded  so  far  as  to  declare 
his  intention  not  to  preach  any  more  at  the  Foundry.  ^'  The 
Philistines  are  upon  thee,  Sampson,  (says  Mr.  Wesley  in  his 
Journal  on  this  occasion,)  but  the  Lord  is  not  departed  from 
thee.  He  shall  strengthen  thee  yet  again,  and  thou  shalt  be 
avenged  of  them  for  tne  loss  of  thine  eyes."  Mr.  Hutchings, 
Mr.  Stonhouse,  the  Vicar  of  Islington,  Mr.  Chapman,  Mr. 
Hall,  and  Charles  Wesley,  kept  aloof  from  all  connexion  with 
the  Foundry,  and  appeared  inclined  to  join  the  Moravians,  with 
whom  they  associated,  and  amongst  whom  they  occasionally 
preached.  This  was  the  cause  of  much  grief  to  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon, who  had  a  sincere  regard  for  Mr.  Charles  Wesley,  with 
whom  she  remonstrated  very  n'eely,  and  who  soon  yielded  to  the 
opinionsof  the  Countess,  whom  he  so  entirelyrespected  and  loved. 
A  breach  between  the  brothers,  indeed,  would  have  afforded  a 
malignant  pleasure  to  their  enemies,  but  they  had  too  long  been 
linked  together  for  good  to  be  separated  by  any  slight  difference. 
Mr.  Wesley  was  fully  sensible  of  the  value  of  such  a  coadjutor 
as  his  brotner,  who  had  one  heart  and  object  with  himself;  whom 
he  knew  so  thoroughly,  and  upon  whom  he  could  perfectly  rely ; 
and  whose  life,  conversation,  talents,  and  acquirements,  he  could 
hold  up  to  the  world  as  confidently  as  his  own,  defying  calumny, 
and  courting  investigation. 

That  Lady  Huntmgdon  was  the  instrument  in  God's  hands 
of  Mr.  Charles  Wesley's  deliverance  from  the  errors  of  the  Mo- 
ravians, is  obvious,  from  her  Ladyship's  letter  to  his  brother : — 

''October  24, 1741. 

^  Wisdom  i^  justified  of  her  children.  Your  answer  to  the  former 
port  of  mine  has  quite  silenced  m^  on  that  subject.  But  I  believe  your 
orother's  Journal  will  clear  up  my  meaning  more  fully  to  you,  for  I 
should  labour  very  much  to  have  as  few  snares  in  his  way  as  possible. 
Since  you  left  us  the  stiU  ones  are  not  without  their  attacks.  I  fear 
much  more  for  him  than  for  myself,  as  the  conquest  of  the  one  would 
be  nothing  to  the  other.  They  have  by  one  of  their  agents  reviled  me 
very  much,  but  I  have  taken  no  sort  of  notice,  as  if  I  had  never  heard 
it  I  comfort  myself  very  much  that  you  will  approve  a  |  step  with 
respect  to  them  your  brother  and  I  have  taken.  No  less  than  his 
declaring  open  war  with  them.  He  seemed  under  some  difficulty  about 
it  at  firsty  till  he  had  free  liberty  siven  him  to  use  my  name,  as  the 
instrument  in  God's  band  that  had  delivered  him  from  them.    I  rejoiced 


SELINA)  COCmtEM  OF  HUimyODON.  48 

into  their  Tiews,  exerted  all  the  influence  which  her  rank  and 
fortune  gave  her  to  promote  their  fmccess.  The  labours  of 
Mr.  Ingham,  and  of  his  zealous  coadjutors,  in  Yorkshire  and  the 
surrounding  counties,  had  received  her  warmest  approbation. 
Having  witnessed  the  immensely  blessed  labours  of  the  itinerants 
sent  forth  by  Mr.  Whitefield  and  the  Wesleys,  her  Ladyship 
now  determined  to  become  the  patroness  of  itmerant  preaching 
in  the  neighbourhood  of  Donnington  Park. 

David  Taylor,  one  of  Lord  Huntingdon's  servants,  a  man  of 
ability,  knowledge,  and  wisdom,  who  nad  received  a  tolerable 
education,  was  early  called  to  the  knowledge  of  the  grace  of 
God  in  truth,  under  the  preaching  of  the  Mfethodists.  Having 
tasted  of  the  good  word  of  Goa,  and  felt  the  powers  of  the 
world  to  come,  he  was  anxiously  concerned  for  the  state  of  his 
fellow-servants,  and  also  for  nis  neighbours,  whom  he  saw 
thronging  the  downward  road,  and  perishing  for  lack  of  know- 
ledge. This  induced  the  Countess  to  send  him  forth  to  the 
villages  and  hamlets  in  the  immediate  vicinity,  of  Donnington 
Park,  to  speak  to  lost  sinners  of  their  dreadful  state — of  the 
gracious  intentions  of  God  in  Christ  Jesus  concerning  them — and 
of  the  happiness  resulting  from  the  possession  of  true  religion. 
His  word  was  in  the  demonstration  of  the  spirit,  and  with  power, 
so  that  her  Ladyship  was  encouraged  to  extend  the  sphere  of  his 
usefulness.  In  one  of  these  itinerant  excursions,  David  Taylor 
was  sent,  in  1741,  to  visit  Glenfield  and  Ratby,  two  villages 
near  Leicester.  Many  were  incited  through  curiosity  to  hear 
the  strange  preacher  and  his  new  doctrines,  and  to  enquire  con- 
cerning their  sect,  which,  at  that  time,  was  every  where  spoken 
against ;  and  amon^  the  rest,  Mr.  Samuel  Deacon,  of  Katby, 
being  informed,  while  at  work  in  the  field,  that  a  person  had 
been  preaching  in  the  streets  of  Glenfield,  and  that  he  was 
going  to  preach  again  at  Ratby,  immediately  laid  down  his 
scythe,  and  went  to  hear  him.  The  sermon  made  a  lasting  im- 
pression on  his  mind,  and  induced  him  to  search  the  Scriptures. 
The  dissoluteness  and  ignorance  of  the  clergyman  of  his  parish 
now  struck  him  in  a  new  light,  and  he  began  to  reflect  on  his 
own  danger,  a  part  of  the  flock  of  so  careless  a  shepherd.  After 
much  reading,  reasoning,  and  perplexity,  he  was  enabled  to  rely 
on  Christ  for  salvation,  and  immediately  found  peace  and  joy 
in  believing. 

Eventusuly  Mr.  Deacon  became  the  pastor  of  a  little  Church 
at  Barton-fabis,  in  Leicestershire,  which  arose  out  of  his  labours, 
and  those  of  a  few  colleagues,  over  which  he  presided  fifty-two 
years.  This  Church,  like  the  leaven  in  the  meal,  spread  to 
Hugglescote^   Melbourne,  Loughborough,    Derby,  Leicester, 


.  .       ..  ■      .-•::■■     '.■  -    :^'.zu.    .  -  .-i^  n:r.nji->-    r*:  J  s-irr.: 

..    .-.*'•  '  '  ■  .      ■      .-■--..■.-.iii.jr.    Ww.         .  L-    m!::i:aL   -pCrfUi;:! 

...:^'. .    r..!     is."   '— -i. --    r     .  .:.s--:jr-*.     ic    -nn-iiir    f    iL'cic 
-  .-^'^     .•     -V  "...iiii  .r:-7r-:^u-     :i.:-i4i:-_    '^<f.:;T— .-at 

,  .        ,     .       ,«    .^       ••,.;        •• ^i»«        *    -        k  "••T         1_    "  \:  ix  'JT^p^fcr^-** 

-.J.     ;/^.^--. -.        .  . /-.--^'    :,    :^    .\ — Lll:-.    ..'-^.i^^    •^•vuikv 

.    .■       •       I.^rr..         ?^      :  >      .::;*-        .r     l-s      .:".■. *.r.:     .     U.-J-SiUU, 

,'.,.1   ',^'\     /.«-«..-    .*T   ,>•.:  .'.z.^v.   -ir*  1— ••-  -:i:-*'    ::*.L-rf:^:::-^.     3ur 
.*    .v»    .;..--      '  ^.  11.111  r,i.-.n.    .',:i<?i»»'»'..   ."-lilili'iiriki.    Jii;i:--itfsi«UU 

:/y^'   k:1  .M  */^'.'^".^"i*A/.  .•.j'-T.    :i«i.'ti':-.  :■«;•  .••.  "".i*  i.»iur^:«:i-.n«:i:c  ;c 

••  • 

h«/ji.-;  i"*  .•iH*i<o//ij.'Jvj  i><:i«  w;/«  f;il  /,f  f.,^  .•'•'S{.^-r?Ar/.f:  hearers  uvk 

<*W*  i^'i  u\  in.'  '-Jtit'Uif  t,  .ifi/J « ij/'/ji?/-')  •>,#:  ^;|Ji«r  of  the  Meihc-dist.^. 

|>y  lln.-  « v<iJ  I*!.-  i/i».«J  ifr;»a  iKurJi  'Mour»'U:/l,  arM  hi^  popularity 

I  Ifu  liilu  Ml'  ikiijiietli  I'l  (/isiitk'rijari  of  rc-sjH;ctablc  family  in 


SELINA,  C0UKT£SS  OF  lIUNTINGDON.  45 

Derbyshire,  who  h;id  been  intended  for  one  of  the  learned  pro- 
fessions, with  a  view  to  which  he  received  a  classical  education, 
having  heard  much  to  his  own  spiritual  profit  from  one  of  the 
itinerant  Methodist  preachers,  became  warmly  attached  to  them, 
and  was  the  first  person  who  introduced  Mr.  Ingham  and  David 
Taylor  into  his  own  and  the  adjoining  counties.  He  was  soon 
made  known  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  and  paid  her  a  visit  at  Don- 
nington  Park ;  and  by  her  was  first  induced  to  declare  the  things 
which  he  had  seen  and  felt ;  and  hb  word  was  remarkably  owned 
and  blessed  of  God.  By  her  Ladyship  he  was  introduced  to 
Mr.  Whitefield  and  Mr.  Wesley,  and  soon  after  commenced 
preacher  in  connexion  with  them.  His  extraordinary  labours 
were  attended  with  a  remarkable  blessing,  and  he  was  instru- 
mental in  raising  several  societies  in  Lancashire  before  Mr. 
Whitefield  or  Mr.  Wesley  had  visited  that  part  of  the  kingdom. 
His  sentiments  coinciding  more  with  those  of  the  former  than 
the  latter,  he  publicly  seperated  from  Mr.  Wesley  a  few  years 
after  at  Bolton,  and  a  chapel  was  erected  for  him  at  Warbur- 
ton,  in  Cheshire,  a  thinly-inhabited  part  of  the  country,  where 
Methodism  gained  some  of  its  earliest  trophies.  His  ministry, 
however,  was  not  confined  to  this  people,  but  he  extended  his 
itberant  excursions  to  various  parts  of  the  country,  frequently 
visiting  Donnington  Park  and  its  neighbourhood,  until  the  year 
1759,  when  he  sunk  under  a  series  of  most  arduous,  self-deny- 
ing, and  highly  useful  labours,  and  ^^  finished  his  course  with 

joy" 

Mrs.  Bennett  was  a  native  of  Newcastle-upon-Tyne;  her 
maiden  name  was  Norman,  but  under  that  of  Grace  Murray 
(which  she  derived  from  a  former  marriage,)  she  occupies  a  place 
no  less  distinguished  than  that  of  her  husband  in  the  annals  of 
early  Methodism.  She  possessed  superior  personal  accom- 
plishments, united  to  a  mind  cultivated  by  education,  and  an 
imagination  brilliant  and  lively  in  the  highest  degree.  She 
was  employed  by  Mr.  Wesley  to  organise  his  female  societies, 
and  for  this  purpose  she  travelled  through  various  parts  of  both 
England  and  Ireland.  Mr.  Wesley  used  to  call  her  his  right 
hand ;  and  it  is  known  that  he  wished  to  make  her  his  wife.  An 
acquaintance,  however,  was  formed  between  her  and  Mr.  Ben- 
nett, which  in  its  origin  and  continuance  was  marked  by  several 
extraordinar}'  circumstances,  and  which  eventually  led  to  their 
marriage.  For  several  years  she  continued  to  travel  with  her  hus- 
band ;  but  when  her  family  and  its  cares  increased,  she  retired 
to  the  neighbourhood  of  Chapel-en-le-Frith,  where,  for  more 
than  half  a  century,  her  life  and  conversation  uniformly  did  the 


46  tm  juirc  ANB  TWEs  or 

greatest  honour  to  her  religious  principles  and  prt^ssion.  Her 
views  of  Gospel  doctrines^  after  her  separation  from  Mr.  Wesley, 
were  always  decidedly  Calvinistiey  but  she  retained  a  partiality  to 
the  modes  and  usages  oi  the  Methodists,  and  had  for  many  years 
a  class-oaeeting  in  her  house.  She  died,  after  a  short  lUne^ 
Feb.  23,1  180i^  in  the  8$^th  year  of  her  age;  her  hst  words 
being,  ^<  Glory  be  to  thee,  my  God :  peace  thou  givest  me  V 

With  Lady  Hiuitipgdon*s  permission,  David  Tajflor  frequently 
assisted  Mr.  Ingham,  preaching  with  distinguished  success 
amongst  his  societies  in  various  parts  of  Yorkshire^  particularly 
at  Bristol,  where  he  was  instrumental  in  exciting  a  great  spirit 
of  enquiry,  prior  to  the  arrival  of  John  Nelson  in  bis  native  town, 
and  the  commencement  of  the  immensely  blessed  labours  of 
that  extraordinary  man  in  Yorkshire  and  various  other  parts  of 
the  kingdoQU 

In  the  letters  of  Lady  Huntingdon,  and  in  Mr.  Wesle/s 
journals^  frequent  mention  is  made  of  David  Taylor ;  and  about 
this  period  he  seems  to  have  incurred  their  displeasure;  but 
from  what  cause,  unless  perfaap  it  was  an  ill-judged  marriage, 
does  not  appear*  He.  still,  however,  continued  imder  Lord 
Huntingdon's  voo^  and  remained  for  several  years  after  in  Mr. 
Weslev^  connexion.  In  the  following  letter  to  Mr.  Wesley,  ber 
Ladyship  makes  particular  mention  of  him : — 

"January  9th,  1742. 

*^  Your  opinion  of  David  Taylor  will,  I  fear,  be  found  too  true.  I 
think  it  will  be  best  to  take  no  notice  till  I  find  a  way  to  do  it  effec- 
tually. When  we  lose  our  plainness^  tliere  ends  the  Christian.  A 
double-minded  man  who  can  bear  ? 

^  I  have  enclosed  you  Mr.  Shnpson's  conversation.  He  has  left  the 
Moraviajis,  as  he  tella  me^  and  is  not  quite  at  rest  now.  I  have  ne 
doubt  but  he  will  be  broushl  right  at  last.  I  leave  the  affiiir  of  your 
sister  to  you  and  your  broUier.  Act  in  it  as  you  think  best,  and  know 
that  God  will  order  all  things  as  shall  be  most  for  his  glory ;  I  feel  no 
desLce  on  earth  or  heaven,,  but  to  cease  from  of&nding  him^  that  his 
name  may  be  glorified  upon  earthy  and  that  all  the  world  may  know 
the  salvation  of  €K)d. 

'^  I  know  that  your  pious  soul  would  rejoice  at  the  object*  now 
before  me,  who  is  \vaitnie  for  the  consolation  of  Israel  with  that  firm- 
ness of  foith-  and  hope  that  is  not  to  be-  described :  and  indeed  she 
arows  in  graeev  and  in  the  knowledge  and  love  of  our  Lord  and 
Saviemu  She  1ms  bo  joys;,  bat  the  work  seems  gradual,  and  the  light, 
I  doubt  nol^  wilL  shine  out  ere  Ae  w  called  benoe. 

^  I  think  there  is  not  one  thing  in  the  Jt»uraal  that  ought  to  be 

omitted.    The  manner  in  which  you  speak  of  yx>ui8elf  cannot  l>o 

■d^supposiiig  you  have  done  justice  to  the  grace  you  have 

*  IGiS  Anne  Cooper,  who  died  a  few  months  after. 


8ELIKA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUKTIMGDOK.  4? 

^received.  We  noYer  forget  to  recommend  you,  and  all  your  under- 
takinga,  at  the  throne  of  grace  :  and  a9  Umg  (Muoufcmw  tke  Lord 
Jems  in  simplicity  and  godly  sincerity ,  I  hope  to  oe  the  happy  friend 
that  shall  liye  and  die  hy  you,  if  the  Lord  permit ;  ^nd  may  you  he 
his  peculiar  charge  now,  henceforth,  and  for  ever. 

'*  My  whole  heart  has  not  one  single  ^iu,  this  moment,  of  thirst 
after  approhation.  I  feel  alone  with  God ;  he  fills  the  whole  void ;  I 
see  all  mortals  under  my  feet.  I  have  not  one  wish,  one  will,  one 
desire,  hut  in  him ;  he  hath  set  my  feet  in  a  larse  room.  All  hut 
God*s  children  seem  as  so  many  machines  appointed  for  uses  which  I 
have  nothing  to  do  with.  I  have  wondered  and  stood  amazed  that 
God  should  make  a  conquest  of  all  within  me  by  love*  Others  may 
be  conquered  by  less  fi;ifU  and  graces,  but  what  must  that  evil  heart  be 
that  nothing  but  the  love  of  God  can  conquer  ?  I  am  brought  to  less 
than  nothing ;  broken  to  pieces  like  the  potter's  vessel.  0,  may  you 
thus  be  subject — may  these  tears  be  your  meat  night  and  day.  X  long 
to  leap  into  the  flames  to  get  rid  of  my  sinful  flesh,  and  that  every  atom 
of  these  ashes  might  be  separate,  that  neither  time,  place,  nor  person 
should  stay  God's  spirit.  And  may  thes  ame  Spirit  dwell  in  you,  protect 
and  guide  you  to  love  tlie  Lord  Jesus  in  sincenty  and  truth.  Fear  not, 
be  strong,  and  he  will  establish  you.    AdieUj  your  most  faithful  friend, 

*^  S.  HUNTINOOON,* 


CHAPTER  IV. 

The  Clergy — Mr.  Simpson — Mr.  Wesley^s  opinion  of  him— The  one  wrong 
Principle— .Mr.  Graves— His  Recantation — His  Explanatory  Deckuration.^ 
Lady  Huntingdon's  Schools — Lord  Huntingdon's  character — Miss  Cooper — 
Her  death-^Letteri—The  Poor— Death  of  Mr.  Jones— The  poor  Penitent's 
Death-hed — Mr.  Wesley*s  Preaching  on  his  Father's  Tomb — Donnington 
Park— Lady  Abney— Dr.  Watts.^"  The  Grave  "—Dr.  Blair— Letters— Co- 
looel  Gardiner — His  MarveUous  Conversion — Letters. 

At  this  period  there  were  two  awakened  clergymen  in  the 
neighbourhood  of  Donnington  Park,  with  whom  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon became  acquainted  b^  means  of  Mr.  Wesley.  Con- 
cerning Mr.  Simpson  there  is  little  information  to  be  obtained  at 
this  distance  of  time.  He  was  a  student  at  Oxford,  and  one  of 
those  who  composed  the  first  Methodist  society  in  that  Univer* 
sitv*  Soon  after  he  was  ordained,  he  got  a  living  of  considerable 
value,  in  Leicestershire,  which  he  was  persua&d  to  dispose  of, 
when  he  left  the  Church  of  England  and  joined  the  Moravians. 
For  some  time  before  he  took  this  step,  he  preached  amongst 
Mr.  Ingham's  societies  in  Yorkshire,  Lincolnshire,  and  Derby- 
imd  his  ministry  was  owned  of  God  to  the  conversion  of 


48  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

many.  When  speaking  of  him  after  he  joined  the  Moravians^ 
Mr.  Wesley  says,  "  Of  this  I  am  fully  persuaded,  that  whatever 
he  does,  it  is  in  the  uprightness  of  his  heart ;  but  he  is  led  into 
a  thousand  mistakes  oy  one  wrong  principle,  (the  same  which 
many  either  ignorantly  or  wickedly  ascribe  to  the  whole  body 
of  the  people  called  Methodists,)  the  making  inward  impressions 
his  rule  of  action,  and  not  the  written  word."  He  appears  to 
have  been  a  pious,  well-meaning  man,  but  was  led  to  adopt  some 
of  those  singular  notions  which  distinguished  the  Moravian  body 
at  that  time.  He  was  for  a  time  resident  at  Nottingham,  Og- 
brook,  Breson,  and  Markfield,wherehepropagatedhissentiments, 
and  drew  many  people  from  the  Church,  asserting  that  "  there 
was  no  Scripture  for  familjr  prayers,  nor  for  praying  in  private  at 
any  particular  seasons,  which  a  believer  need  not  do."  Lady 
Huntingdon  had  a  great  regard  for  him,  and  used  her  utmost 
exertions  to  lead  him  back  to  the  path  he  had  left,  but  in  vain. 
Some  years  after,  however,  he  withdrew  from  the  Moravians, 
and  expressed  a  wish  to  return  to  the  Church  of  England,  when 
his  friends  promised  to  provide  for  him.  The  last  mention  of 
him  which  we  have  been  able  to  trace,  is  in  Mr.  Wesley's  Journal 
for  1747,  where  he  says,  "Poor  Mr.  Simpson  spent  an  hour 
with  me,  distressed  on  every  side  :  drawn  up  to  London  by  fair 
and  specious  words,  and  then  left  to  perish,  unless  he  would  pro- 
mise never  more  to  preach  out  of  a  church,  Alas  !  what  a  method 
of  conversion  is  tnis  !  I  love  the  Church  too ;  but  I  would 
no  more  starve  men  into  the  Church  than  bum  them  into  it." 

Of  Mr.  Graves  we  have  likewise  but  very  scanty  information. 
He  was  a  student  of  St.  Mary  Magdalen  College,  Oxford,  where 
he  became  acquainted  with  the  Messrs.  Wesley,  and  joined  the 
Methodists  in  the  University.  For  some  time  after  his  ordina- 
tion he  was  very  zealous,  preaching  in  the  fields  and  wherever 
Providence  opened  a  door  for  him.  But  giving  way  to  the  fear 
of  man,  and  the  opinion  of  those  whom  he  accounted  wiser  than 
himself,  he  was  inauced  to  sign  a  paper,  renouncing  all  connexion 
with  the  Methodists,  and  promising  for  the  future  not  to  frequent 
their  meetings  or  attend  their  expositions.  Mr.  Graves  expe- 
rienced considerable  uneasiness  of  mind  after  this  sinful  com- 
pliance, and  in  1742  joined  Mr.  Wesley  at  Bristol,  when,  being 
finable  to  delay  it  any  longer,  he  sent  the  following  letter  to  the 

tUows  of  St  Mary  Magdalen  College : — 

«  Bristol,  August  29,  1742. 

*^  GentlemcD,— -In  December  1740,  I  signed  a  paper  containing  the 
Ikming  words : — '  I,  Charles  Caspar  Grraves,  do  hereby  declare,  that 
1q  xenooiico  the  modem  practice  and  principles  of  the  persons  com* 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTtKODON.  49 

mohly  called  Methodists,  namely,  of  preaching  in  fields,  of  assembling 
together  and  expounding  the  Holy  Scriptures  in  private  houses,  and 
elsewhere  than  in  churches,  in  an  irregular  manner ;  and  their  preten- 
sions to  an  extraordinary  inspiration  and  inward  feeling  of  the  Holy 
Spirit. 

"  I  do  further  declare  my  conformity  to  the  Liturgy  of  the  Church  of 
England,  and  my  unfeigned  assent  and  consent  to  the  Articles  thereof, 
commonly  called  the  Thirty-nine  Articles. 

"  Lastly,  I  do  declare,  that  I  am  heartily  sorry  that  I  have  given 
offence  and  scandal  by  frequenting  the  meetings  and  attending  the 
expositions  of  the  persons  commonly  called  Methodists,  and  that  1  will 
not  frequent  their  meetings,  nor  attend  their  expositions  for  the  future, 
nor  take  upon  me  to  preach  and  expound  the  Scriptures  in  the  manner 
preached  by  them. 

"Charles  Caspar  Graves." 

'*  I  believe  myself  indispensably  obliged  openly  to  declare  before 
God  and  the  world,  that  the  motives  whereby  I  was  induced  to  sign 
that  paper,  were,  partly  a  sinful  fear  of  man,  partly  an  improper  defe- 
rence to  the  judgment  of  those  whom  I  accounted  wiser  than  myself; 
and  lastly,  a  resolution  that  if  my  own  judgment  should  at  any  time  be 
better  informed,  I  would  then  openly  retract,  in  the  presence  of  God 
and  man,  whatever  I  should  be  convinced  I  had  said  or  done  amiss. 

"  Accordingly,  having  now  had  (besides  a  strong  conviction  imme- 
diately consequent  thereon)  many  opportunities  of  informing  my  judg- 
ment better,  and  being  fully  convinced  of  my  fault,  I  do  hereby  declare 
my  sincere  repentance  for  my  wicked  compliance  with  those  oppressive 
men,  who,  without  any  colour  of  law,  human  or  divine,  imposed  such 
a  condition,  of  receiving  a  testimonial,  upon  me. 

"  I  do  further  declare,  that  I  know  no  principles  of  the  Methodists 
(so  called,)  which  are  contrary  to  the  Word  of  God ;  nor  any  practices 
of  theirs,  but  what  are  agreeable  both  to  Scripture,  and  to  the  laws  of 
the  Church  of  England ;  and  I  believe  in  particular,  their  preadiina 
the  gospel  in  thefidds  (being  first  forbid  to  do  so  in  churches,  although 
a  dispensation  of  the  gospel  is  committed  to  them,  and  woe  unto  them 
if  they  preach  not  the  gospel,)  or  in  private  hotises,  or  in  any  part  of 
His  dominion  who  filleth  heaven  and  earth,  can  never  be  proved  to  be 
contrary  to  any  written  law,  either  of  God  or  man :  that  I  am  not 
apprised  of  their  preaching  anywhere  in  an  irregular^  disorderly  man" 
ner,  neither  of  their  pretending  to  any  extraordinary  inspiration  or 
extraordinary  feelings  of  the  Holy  Spirit ;  but  to  those  ordinary  ones 
only,  which,  if  a  man  have  not,  he  is  without  hope  and  without  God  in 
the  world. 

*'  I  do  yet  further  declare,  that  (whatever  indiscretion  I  may  in  other 
respects  have  been  guilty  of,)  I  know  no  just  offence  or  scandal  which 
I  ever  gave,  by  frequenting  the  meetings,  or  attending  the  expositions 
of  the  persons  commonly  called  Methodists,  and  that  I  verily  believe 
no  offence  was  ever  taken  thereat,  unless  either  by  persons  loaded  by 
prejudice,  or  by  those  who  enter  not  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven  them- 
selves, and  if  others  would  enter  in,  suffer  them  not 

VOL,  I. — E 


so  Tti£  Lire  AMD  TIMES  OF 

"  I  do  lastly  dcclaff,  that  I  look  upon  myself  to  be  under  no  kind 
of  obli^tion,  (except  only  that  1  still  assent  nnd  consent  to  tlic  Articles 
and  Liturgy  of  the  Church,)  to  observe  any  thing  contained  in  that 
scandalous  paper,  so  unchristianly  imposed  upon  me. 

(Witness  my  hand.)  "  Charles  Caspar  Graves." 

About  a  month  after   the  date  of  this  paper,  Mr.  Charles 
Wesley  and  Mr.  Graves  visited  Doiinington  Park,  and  were 
received  by  Lady  Huntingdon  with  the  utmost  cordiality  and 
kindness.     Her  Ladyship  rejoiced  that  Mr.  Graves  had  burst 
his  degrading  fetters,  and  was  determined  once  more,  in  the 
strengtn  of  his  Divine  Master,  to  go  forth  into  the  high-ways, 
and  proclaim  the  savour  of  that  Name  which  he  loved.    t)uring 
their  stay,  Lady  Huntingdon  invited  many  persons  in  the  upper 
ranks  in  society,  to  whom  they  declared  "the  unsearchable 
riches   of  Christ,"  and  were   heard   with   apparent  deep  and 
serious  attention.     From  this  period  Mr.  Charles  Wesley,  and 
his  brother,  and  those  connected  with  them,  became  constant 
visitors  at  Donnington  Park,  where  they  were  always  received  by 
hel*  Ladyship  as  the  servants  of  that  Uod  to  whom  she  had  so 
solemnly  dedicated  herself,  and  treated  with   everv   mark  of 
polite  attention  on  the  part  of  the  noble  Earl.     Tliis  accom- 
plished nobleman  undoubtedly  had  a  high  esteem  and  ardent 
affection  for  the  Countess;  indeed,  a  man  with  far  less  discernment 
than  he  possessed,  could  not  have  been  insensible  to  her  superior 
talents  and  worth.     The  high  veneration  in  which  she  was  held 
by  him  was  abundantly  evinced  by  his  permitting  and  enabling 
her  to  promote  those  schemes  of  usefulness,  and  those  plans  for 
the  advancement  of  the  interests  of  religion,  which  he  well 
knew  constantly  lay  so  near  her  heart.     Every  minister  of  the 
Gospel,  of  whatever  name  and  denomination,  whom  she  wished 
to  invite,  was  always  welcome  at  Donnington  Park,  and  treated 
by  his  Lordship  with  that  politeness  ana  affability  for  which  he 
was  so  distinguished.     With  many  of  these  worthy  men  Lord 
Huntingdon  would  freely  converse  on  subjects  of  a  religious 
nature,  proving,  however,  that  he  himself  was  not  imbued  with 
true  devotion.     It  was  on  one  of  those  occasions,  that  the  con- 
versation turned  on  the  great  doctrine  of  the  Atonement  through 
the   death   of    Christ,  when   his    Lordship   observed,   "The 
morality  of  the  Bible  I  admire,  but  the  doctrine  of  Atonement 
I  cannot  comprehend." 

The  Countess  appears  to  have  continued  at  Donnington 
Park  the  greater  part  of  this  year,  fully  occupied  in  devising 
schemes  for  the  more  extensive  diffusion  of  divine  truth,  and 
meliorating  the  cointition  of  the  poor  around  her.    Sensible  of 


S^LrNA5  COtTHTlSS  6F  SUM rllTODON.  5l 

the  benefits  resulting  from  a  religious  education,  h^r  Ladyship 
established  schools  at  Ashley  and  Markfield  for  the  instruction 
cff  the  children  of  those  districts.  For  a  tinrte  they  Seemed  to 
prosper  well ;  but  not  succeeding  according  to  Tier  ^i^ishesi 
she  was  obliged  to  give  them  up,  and  discharge  the  masters. 
This  circumstance  is  briefly  noticed  in  one  of  her  letters  to 
Sir.  Weslev : — 

"March  15th,  1742. 
.  "  My  very  nrach  beloved  Friend  in  the  Lord, — I  cannot  help  saying 
that  I  thought  it  long  till  I  heard  from  you ;  not  but  I  was  wdl 
assured  thai  some  good  reasoi^  had  prevented  you.  May  the  Lord 
strengthen  you  more  and  more !  I  am  sure  you  are  a  chosen  vessel, 
and  Sent  for  the  defence  of  the  Gospel.  It  is  the  Lord's  work,  and  the 
good  that  is  done  upon  earth  be  doeth  it  himself.  Stagger  not  tfaeil 
Uirough  unbelief  at  anv  of  bis  promibes.  He  is  come  to  send  fire  upon 
earth,  and  soon  I  beheve.it  will  be  kindled.  0,  that  we  may  all  be 
fit  for. the  day  of  trial !  He  will  throughly  purge  his  floor.  Toe  chaff 
and  the  wheat  are  now.  mixed  together,  and  it  is  the  Lord  6f  tioata 
must  separate  them.  But  I  trust  we  shall  be  among  those  who  rejoice 
at  his  appearing. 

"  Many  things  agreeing,  have  determined  me  to  lav  aside  the  school 
at  Markneld,  and  tar  that  end  I  have  discharged  the  schoolmasters. 

It  is  but  too  plain  the  time  is  not  yet  come.     Mr.  E is  gone  mueh 

backward ;  fear,  and  all  evil,  I  find,  now  break  in  upon  him.  I  believe 
loncer  experience,  with  much  better  observations  than  I  am  able  ief 
make,  will  prove  this  an  undeniable  truth — that  a  school  will  never 
answer  the  end  of  bringing  forth  any  of  the  Gospel  fruits  of  holiness, 
till  the  parents  are  first  made  Christians.  The  parents  must  lay  up 
for  the  children,  not  the  children  for  the  parents. 

«*••««  Surely,  my  friend  has  a  mind  to  exorcise  his  gift  of 
humiiity  m  an  extraordinary  manner,  when  he  could  once  ask  my 
opinion  upon  his  Journal.  That  it  will  both  delight  and  comfort  me,  I 
Iwve  no  doubt ;  and  I  think  notliing  is  left  for  me  but  to  speak  my 
heart,  knowing  the  love  God  hath  for  you.  He  will  bring  good  out  of 
evil  for  your  soke,  and  in  this  hope,  I  will  do  my  uttermost  in  mueh 
simplicity.*  Our  friend,+  now  iu  town,  seems  as  a  lamb  in  the  midst 
of  wolves.  Moy  the  Lord  give  him  the  wisdom  of  the  serpent  and  tlie 
innocency  of  the  dove  I  Divine  grace  and  the  uprightness  of  his  heart, 
wfll  make  him  more  than  conqueror. 

"  I  think  and  believe,  that  God  had  blessed  your  conversatTon  to 
Mr.  Graves,  whom  I  have  just  heard  has,  with  much  love  and  grati- 
tude, expressed  warm  sentiments  for  you.  The  Lord  will  water  his 
word  in  nis  own  time. 

'^  All  goes  on  well  here,  with  respect  to  an  abundance  of  the  oat* 

*  It  18  evident  from  the  ahove,  as  well  as  from  the  preceding  letter,  that  kits 
Wesley  Conntilted  Lady  Huntingdon  relative  to  his  Journals,  the  manuscripts 
of  which  were  submitted  to  her  inspection,  and  that  her  Ladyship  gave  ner 
ofiiiioB  ^Mm  bifore  they  were  publSthed. 

t  Mr.  Cbailct  Wesley. 

e3 


JS  THE  UVE  X3Q  TOIES  OF 

ward  meana  ;  but,  aluH  I  none  of  the  ^>nis  wiikk  fiiQuw  believers^  Do- 
joa  not  think  cliat  John  the  Baposc'.i  disciples  hiui  remiwiua  of  ami 
nnder  his  miniacry  ?  It  is  anicl,  "  chat  he  was  filled  with  the  HoIt 
Ohodt ;  and  that  he  gave  the  knowledge  of  alTodon  by  the  remisMOa 
of  aina/  Or  lather,  ia  it  only  meant  heie^  the  sood  tidin«^  whick 
were  to  follow,  and  thos  oar  Lord  was  to  zive  die  knowledge  of  aabuir 
tion  ?  We  read,  diat  repentance  went  be&ce  his  boptism*  and  is  it 
not  proved  that  pardon  followed  it,  by  dre  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  girwi 
by  oar  Lord  himself^  Sorely  lem  is  not  meant  than  entire  pnriticatioa 
of  Sonl.  Bat  my  blindneas"  yoor  light  will  aasiBt  ia  this«  when  yoa 
have  leisare* 

*  We  are  earnest  in  prayer  for  yoa;  and,  coald  I  do  justice  to  my 
heart,  I  shoald  aay,  how  mnch  kive  and  gratitode  I  hoarly  ^I  for 
yoa ;  and  it  is  the  only  ;zood  I  know  that  it  ever  was  pot»e!»ed  of. 
Mav  the  Lord  enable  voa  to  rpmember  me !  Mav  voor  patience  be 
tried  bv  this,  as  I  think  it  is  the  onlv  <«ood  voa  can  receive  bv  so 
tedioos  and  nnpleanant  a  scrawl.  May  oar  Lord  bie»  yoa ;  I  wish 
yoo  good  lack  in  his  name,  and  that  he  vamj  prosper  yoor  bandy- 
work.     Yoor  most  nn  worth  v,  but  aiiectionate  firiend, 

**  S.  HcTrriyGuox.*' 

There  was  at  this  period  a  youn^j  lady  residing  with  Lady 
Huntin^on,  of  the  name  of  Cooper.^  She  was  in  the  last 
s^tage  of  con^^umption,  and  her  aoul  was  on  the  wing  for  eter- 
nity. Mws  Cooper  having  expressed  an  earnest  wish  to  see  Mr. 
Wesley,  Lady  Huntingdon  wrote  to  him  on  Saturday,  the  15th 
of  May,  presfiing  him  to  come  without  delay,  and  pay  the  last 
office  of  friendship  to  one  whor=?e  spirit  was  hovering  on  the 
brink  of  the  eternal  world.  Three  days  after  the  receipt  of  this 
letter,  Mr.  Wesley  left  London,  and  arrived  on  Saturday  the 
22nd,  at  Lord  Huntingdon's.  "  About  five  in  the  afternoon," 
»iy»  Mr.  Weslej*,  "  I  reached  Donnington  Park.  Miss  Cooper 
was  just  alive.  But  as  soon  as  we  came  in,  her  spirit  greatlv 
revived.  For  three  days  we  rejoicerl  in  the  grace  of  God, 
whereby  she  was  filled  with  a  hope  full  of  immortality;  with 
meekness,  gentleness,  patience,  and  humble  love,  knowing  in 
whom  she  had  believed.*' 

The  following  letter  to  Mrs.  Bridget  Bethel,  of  Bath,  contains 
fK)me  account  of  her  last  hours: — 

**  My  dear  Friend  in  tlic  Lord, — Upon  receiving  yours,  we  could 
not  help  falling  prostrate  before  the  throne  of  grace  to  acknowledge 
tlio  great  love  wherewith  the  Lord  hath  loved  you;  and  with  prais^ 
tad  thank«ffiving»,  and  hearts  of  joy,  expressing  our  gratitude. 
I  never  thiiik  on  you  but  with  uncommon  comfort.  Dear  Miss  Fanny 
Cooper  was  then  with  us,  and  day  and  night  prayed  to  the  Lord  to 

•  In  some  of  her  Ladyship*!  letters  the  name  is  given  as  above,  but  in  others 
tt  If  written  Cowper. 


8ELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  53 

increase  and  strengthen  your  faith:  she  has  at  lost  laid  down  the 
harden  in  much  joy  and  peace.  0  I  my  dear  friend,  were  I  to  tell  you 
the  whole  of  her  sutferings,  and  the  wonderful  supports  she  had,  you 
would  declare  that  God  was  with  her  of  a  truth  *  *  *  May  the 
Lord  grant  us  to  follow  Christ  as  she  has  done,  for  a  hlessed  saint  she 
lived  and  died.  Whole  nights,  when  for  her  pain  she  could  not  rest, 
yet  in  hymns,  and  prayers,  and  reading,  she  would  say — *0!  how 
delightful  a  night  have  I  felt.'  Miss  Cooper  is  stilH\nth  me:  it  has 
iiot  seemed  like  death  amongst  us:  we  rejoice  upon  every  remem- 
hrance  of  her;  all  tears  are  wiped  from  our  eyes;  her  last  hours  were 
all  spent  in  prayer:  and  when  her  change  came  her  countenance  spoke 
her  blessed;  and  I  for  a  moment  tasted  her  joy,  for  I  thought  my 
whole  soul  was  so  filled  with  dehght  it  could  have  followed.  She  oflen 
would  say,  *  That  sweet  woman,  Mrs.  Bethel,  I  pray  for  her.' 

''  I  beg  my  most  sincere  compliments  to  dear  Lady  Cox*  and  Mrs. 
Bethel ;  and  believe  me  your  most  sincere  and  affectionate  friend  in  the 
Lord  Jesus,  '  "  S.  Huntingdon. 

"  I  find  the  world  more  and  more  a  burden  to  me — ^pray  for  me, 
that  I  may  no  longer  live  to  the  desire  of  man,  but  of  Qoa." 

Lady  Huntingdon  appears  to  have  been  much  affected  by  this 
incident :  nevertheless  she  still  continued  actively  engaged  in 
doing  good  to  the  souls  and  bodies  of  the  poor  around  her ;  she 
bountifully  relieved  them  in  their  necessities,  visited  in  sickness, 
conversed  with  and  led  them  to  their  knees,  praying  with  them 
and  for  them.  She  sought  them  out  vrith  the  most  industrious 
care,  and  gave  bountifully,  and  always  with  more  pleasure  than 
even  the  poor  themselves  felt  at  receiving  her  alms.  Her  satis* 
faction  appeared  in  her  countenance  and  eyes ;  she  spoke  to 
them  with  kindness,  and  entered  into  all  the  particulars  of  their 
wretchedness ;  and  the  more  rude,  ignorant,  and  barbarous  she 
found  them,  the  more  they  became  the  objects  of  her  com- 
passion. In  the  exercise  of  these  and  of  all  other  virtues  she 
was  wonderfully  secret,  endeavouring  to  come  up  as  near  as  she 
could  to  the  rule  of  not  ^^  letting  her  left  hand  know  what  her 
right  hand  did." 

The  inexpressible  concern  which  her  Ladyship  felt  for  the 
enlargement  of  the  kingdom  of  Christ  and  the  salvation  of 
immortal  souls,  induced  her  to  speak  concerning  divine  things 
in  all  companies,  where  she  had  any  prospect  of  doing  good 
thereby,  and  to  set  her  face  as  a  flint  against  all  who  might 
oppose  the  truth  or  grace  of  God.     Animated  with  that  bum- 

*  Lady  Cox  was  one  cf  the  fruits  of  Mr.  Whitefield*8  ministry  at  Bath,  and 
likewise  derived  much  profit  from  the  preaching  and  heart-searching  conversa- 
tion of  the  apostolic  Griffith  Jones,  Rector  of  Llandower,  in  Carmarthenshire, 
and  Mr.  Thompson,  Vicar  of  St.  Ginney's,  in  Cornwall,  both  of  whom  were 
often  at  Bath  at  tiiis  period. 


j^  nu  urc  AKo  imcs  ow 

iog  chanty  by  »Licb  the  gieai  Apostle  of  tbe  Geodles  mas  im- 
pelled to  publifeli  tiie  Gospel  from  oatioo  lo  catioo,  Ladr  Hun* 
tingdoo  m-as  cooFtnined  to  vani  the  ignocant.  the  careless,  and 
the  abandoned,  that  the  ^  vrath  of  God  is  revealed  from  heaiea 
against  all  ungodliness  and  unrighteousness  of  dkd."  Her 
bi<Hiest  wish  was  to  ^  convert  the  wicked  from  the  errors  of  his 
wavsy**  and  her  labours  were  not  in  vain. 

^be  following  letter  to  Mr.  Wesley,  written  shortly  after  Miss 
Cooper's  death,  will  prove  how  incessant  and  unwearied  were 
the  labours  of  Ladv  Huntingdon  to  save  perisbiiig  CdUen  mortals 
from  the  error  of  tlieir  ways . — 

^  My  dear  friend, — The  Lord  Imdi  remoTcd  from  yoo  one  whom 
you  much  loved  :  but  I  bare  the  pleasure  to  bdieTe,  because  he  loved 
her  better,  and  therefore  be  gnicioady  delivered  ber  from  this  present 
evil  world.  Some  plain  account,  unomamcnted,  of  what  ber  Ue  and 
death  were,  under  tbe  clmracter  of  a  believer,  would  have  the  most 
weight,  in  wbidi  we  miglit  justly  boost  of  God  s  love  to  him.  I  would 
have  as  little  of  tbe  creature  tbougbt  of  as  possible,  that  God  may  be 
ALL  in  ALL." 

The  Copntess  here  relates  the  death  of  Mr.  Jones,  of  Fon- 
nipn  Castle,  in  Wales,  a  gentleman  of  laige  fortune  and  a  truly 

J>ipus  convert,  tbrougli  the  labours  of  the  early  Methodists,  to 
he  truth  as  it  is  in  Christ  Jesus.  He  died  in  June  17-^  and 
Mr.  C.  Weslpy  wrote  an  clc^*  on  his  memor}',  to  which  in  this 
Iptter  Lady  Huntingdon  refers,  obsening  that — 

^^  For  tliis  fortnigbt  past  I  bave  found,  tbat  instruction  and  some  diort 
exhoilations  to  tbe  weak  bave  been  of  great  use,  especially  among  my 
\york-peoplc,  with  whom  I  spend  part  of  every  day.*  I  bave  found 
much  comfort  in  this  myself^  and  am  rarely  or  ever  out  of  tbe  presence 
of  God.  He  is  a  pillar  of  light  before  me.  I  want  more  of  tbi« 
knowledge,  that  I  may  keep  his  holy  law.  Yea,  I  then  shall  keep  it 
with  my  whole  heart ;  clouds  and  darkness  are  at  time^  the  habitation 
of  his  seat :  but  there  shall  go  a  consuming  fire  before  him,  which 
shall  bum  up  his  enemies,  and  shall  destroy  all  them  that  persecute 
nic  ;  and  he  shall  say  unto  my  soul,  ^  I  am  thy  salvation.'  The  Lord 
often  appcoreth  out  of  Zion,  in  ^reat  beauty.  Surely  he  batli  done  a 
n)arYcllous  thing  of  late ;  and  I  ^nd  so  mucn  done  by  this  act  of  bis 
love,  tliat  I  am  all  love  and  wonder.     The  heaviness  of  my  heart  re- 

*  Her  LadvBhlp  once  spoke  to  a  workman  who  was  repairing  a  garden  wsHt 

and  pressed  nim  to  take  some  thought  concerning  eternity  and  the  state  of  his 

ipid.     Some  years  nfterwards  she  was  speaking  to  another  on  the  same  subject, 

and  said  to  him,  **  Thomas,  I  fear  you  never  pray,  nor  look  to  Christ  for  sal- 

yation.**    "  Your  Ladyship  is  mistsken,*"  answered  the  man  :    *'  I  heard  what 

aassed  betweep  you  and  James  at  such  a  time,  and  the  word  you  designed  for 

1  too^  effect  on  me-*'    "  How  did  you  hear  it  ?"  asked  her  Ladyship.    **  I 

rd  it,**  ansiirer^  the  man,  "  on  the  other  side  of  t^e  ou^n,  tlu'ough  a  fa^^Ie 

hi  will,  and  shall  never  forget  the  impression  I  Eecciye^." 


SELINA,   GOUlfTE3i  Of   HVlfVWQDOV.  ^^ 

specting  Miss  Cooper's  deaths  is,  th^l  she  havipg  so  n^uph  ligb^  I 
expocti^l  great  things  from  her.  My  heart  used  to  say,  we  have  pravc4 
so  much,  and  have  longed  so  much  for  this  ^fiumpb  pf  faith  in  )ier  I^ 
moments,  that  we  shall  surely  have  it.  Not  considefing  thai  we 
should  not  be  heard  for  our  much  speaking,  or  that  Ihepe  i^  any  thing 
in  man  that  could  incline  God  but  only  for  his  holy  name's  sake,  ^hfi 
Devil  thrust  sore  at  me,  but  I  loo]ced  unto  the  Lord^  andi  though  in  tlie 
dark,  he  bade  me  tarry  his  leisure. 

^^  Afbr  Miss  Anne  Cooper  wa^  gone,  I  walked  a  little  way  from  th^ir 
house  by  the  water  side,  where  there  are  some  bouses  for  the  poor,  in 
number  about  six,  two  of  which  WQre  ale-honses,  and  appear  to  be  a 
Wbpur  for  the  devils  themi^lves :  |  called  in  at  one  of  ^p  other  boni^ 
to  see  a  poor  woman  that  I  used  to  think  R^ant  w^Ui  in  order  tP  4if 
her  up  a  little.  After  talking  with  her,  d^e  told  m^^  she  hfu)  h^en 
asking  one  of  her  neighbours  if  she  had  any  hop^  of  knowing  b@for§ 
she  died  whether  she  shpuld  be  happy  ?  and  they  bpth  fished  |o  konw 
my  opinion,  l  answered,  that  as  they  beU0Ye4  80  wpul4  it  be  don^ 
nuto  Ihem;  and  added,  that  I  would  pome  down  and  rea4  tp  tlmm 
***  I  took  a  friend  with  me,  and  fi^iund  her  appar^n^ly  in  great  bodily 
Quifcringy  but  on  feeling  hpr  pulse  I  could  not  find  it  so  niqch  as  ruffled; 
but  her  sweats  were  the  most  violent  t  had  ever  se^n.  Her  acony  of 
mind  was  so  great,  that  she  could  not  contain,  but  cried  out,  '  j^hts  is 
nothjng;  I  possibly  may  d(e,  and  what  will  be  oome  of  my  spul?  0, 
prav  for  me!  0  mercy!  mercy!'  Her  trouble  and  misery  were  soeb 
as  brought  tears  from  all  our  eyes.  I  beheld  her  with  my  heart  filled 
with  love  and  pity,  and  said,  ^  Now,  where  are  all  your  ^ood  works? 
What  is  become  of  all  your  honest  labour  for  sixty  years?  Wfaatl  ase 
you  a  perishing  sinner  at  last  V  She  answered,  ^  It  will  not  do,  I  am 
too  bad  to  be  saved.'  Her  tears,  and  the  expression  of  her  sufibrings, 
were  more  than  can  be  described.  I  said,  ^  Well^  now  that  you  are 
quite  lost,  you  will  find  Him  who  came  to  seek  and  to  save  just  such  as 
yoi|  are.  Now,  my  life  upon  it,  he  will  soon  come.'  ^  What  I'  she  eried, 
'  to  such  a  sinner  as  I  am  ?'  I  answered*  *  Yes,  it  was  only  for  suoh 
that  he  died.'  These  extreme  agonies  had  so  affected  her  body  that  wo 
thought  they  had  brought  on  a  fever,  but  from  her  pulse  this  did  not 
appear.  'I  shall  die,'  she  said.  *  Peace  will  be  your  portion  first,' — 
but  she  would  not  be  comforted. 

'^  Next  day  I  found  her  still  the  same,  and  we  received  the  sacra- 
ment with  her.  I  found  the  presence  of  the  Lord  there.  As  soon  as 
it  was  over,  I  said,  ^  0  what  a  living  Saviour  have  you !'  The  tears 
were  still  flowing  down  her  cheeks,  with  all  the  marks  of  misery  as 
before — the  sight  was  enough  to  affect  a  heart  of  stone. 

<'  About  six  at  night,  they  brought  me  word  that  sfae  was  seisBe4  wi^h 
a  cold  shivering  fit,  and  was  in  the  agonies  of  death,  and  had  desired 
to  take  leave  of  her  children.  This  was  her  last  plunge  into  the  deep. 
Her  soul  and  body  were  as  if  in  hell.  Four  men  were  not  sufficient  to 
hold  her  in  bed,  so  great  was  Satan's  power  over  her.  After  ^ese 
hours  of  sufferings,  the  heavpnly  child  was  born.  The  poor  people 
were  surprised  to  find  her  on  a  sudden  lie  so  still :  and  she  con- 
tinued twelve  hours  as  ii  were  feeding  on  the  fr4^  ealf.    8he  told 


56  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

them,  *I  have  not  slept,  hut  have  heen  all  night  partaking  of  the  joys  of 
heaven/  When  I  came  at  noon  to  see  her,  she  said, '  0,  my  Lady, 
xny  dear  Lady,  what  great  things  the  Lord  hath  done  for  me !  I  have 
no  douht  or  fear.  He  hath  given  me  that  peace  which  the  world  can 
neither  give  nor  take  away.'  Her  looks  were  altered ;  she  laid  with 
such  sweetness  and  complacency  in  her  countenance,  that  my  soul 
delighted  to  hehold  her.  *  You  have  raved  my  soul/  she  said — *  You 
know  the  hlessedness  I  have  found  this  night :  I  have  such  tastes  of 
divine  love  as  are  not  to  he  expressed.  0,  what  a  thing  it  is  to  have 
the  heart  all  flaming  to  the  Lord  Jesus !'  From  that  hour  she  has  felt 
no  pain  either  of  hody  or  mind,  but  exhorts  all  who  come  near  her  to 
turn  to  the  Lord.  She  has  quite  forgot  all  the  knowledge  and  expe- 
rience of  seventy  years,  and  is  become  a  little  child.  I  have  sent  many 
to  see  her ;  and  one  of  her  daughters  is  now  seeking  in  the  bitterness 
of  her  heart  that  Lord  who  hath  so  comforted  her  mother. 

"  Much  of  my  time  is  taken  up  in  bringing  souls  to.  seek  after  the 
Lord.  I  have  some  difficulty  in  keeping  them  from  clinging  to  me — 
such  wondrous  love  they  bear  me,  and  this  I  know  must  be  for  the  Lord's 
sake,  for  in  me  dwelleth  no  good  thing.  *'  S.  Huntingdon." 

Her  Ladyship  continues  her  interesting  account  of  the  poor 
penitent  in  the  following  letter : — 

*'My  dear  Friend, — What  blessed  effects  does  the  lovo  of  God 
produce  in  Uie  heart  of  those  who  abide  in  him !  and  how  solid  is  the 
peace,  and  how  divine  the  joy,  that  springs  from  an  assurance,  that  we 
are  united  to  the  Saviour  by  a  living  faith !  Blessed  be  his  name,  I 
have  an  abidmg  sense  of  his  presence  with  me,  notwithstanding  all  the 
weakness  and  unworthiness  I  feel ;  and  an  intense  desire  that  he  may 
be  glorified  m  the  salvation  of  souls,  especially  those  who  lay  nearest 
my  heart  and  affections.  But  how  vile  and  worthless  are  my  best 
services !  Afkcr  the  poor  labours  of  the  day  are  over,  my  heart  still 
cries,  *  God  be  merciful  to  me  a  sinner  !*  I  am  deeply  sensible  that  I 
daily,  hourly,  and  momentarily  stand  in  need  of  the  sprinkling  of  my 
Saviours  blood.  Thanks  bo  to  God,  the  fountain  is  always  open. 
There  I  may  daily  wash,  and  be  cleansed  from  every  spot  and  every 
stain.     0,  what  an  anchor  is  this  to  the  soul ! 

"  The  poor  woman  whom  I  mentioned  to  you  lately  has  left  us,  and 
has  joined  the  Church  of  the  first-bom  whose  names  are  written  in 
heaven.  About  a  week  before  her  triumphant  exit,  she  was  in  great 
pain  all  the  day,  and  in  the  evening  Lady  Anne,  Lady  Frances,  and  I 
went  to  prayer  with  her.  When  prayer  was  ended,  she  broke  fortli  in 
praise  to  God,  and  continued  for  a  long  time,  crying, '  All  glory !  glory  I 
glory  to  the  Lamb !'  During  the  night  she  broke  out  again  in  an  holy 
extasy  of  joy  and  praise. 

"She  endured  constant,  oflcn   violent  pain.     We  esteemed  it  a 

•  privilege  to  visit  her.  Never  did  I  see  the  power  of  faith  more  remark- 
ably exemplified.  She  drank  deep  of  the  cup  of  suffering;  but 
through  divine  grace  and  the  supporting  hand  of  the  great  Author  of 

■  her  eternal  salvation,  was  made  more  than  conqueror.  I  prevailed  on 
my  Lord  Huntingdon  to  visit  her.     He  was  surprised  and  affected  even 


SELINA)  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  57 

to  tears.  She  was  supposed  to  be  dying.  As  soon  as  she  saw  him,  she 
cried  aloud,  ^  Glory  be  to  God,  that  Jesus  Christ  came  to  seek  and  to 
save  the  lost !  How  great  is  his  love  for  poor  sinners !  If  we  are 
saved,  it  is  because  he  has  died,  and  poured  out  his  precious  blood  to 
wash  our  guilty  souls.  God  be  praised  for  that  Scrip ture... //e //m^ 
conieth  unto  me  I  tcill  in  no  wise  cast  out,'  Sometimes  her  voice  was 
loud,  and  then  so  low  that  we  supposed  her  dying.  The  whole  of  the 
next  day  she  continued  in  a  state  of  extreme  weakness,  waiting  with 
calm  resignation  for  the  appearance  of  her  Lord.  In  the  evening  she 
desired  us  to  sing,  after  which,  and  prayer,  she  was  much  exhausted. 
The  following  day  many  symptoms  of  approaching  dissolution  ap- 
peared. I  visited  her  again,  with  Lady  Anne  and  Lady  Frances,  and 
found  her  extremely  weak.  Lady  Frances  said,  *  Your  sufferings  will 
soon  be  over.'  She  put  forth  her  hand  and  bid  us  farewell.  A  little 
before  her  departure,  she  said, '  The  fear  of  death  is  g[one — O,  the 
name  of  Jesus !  how  sweet  it  is !  All  glory  to  the  Lamb !'  Sho 
attempted  to  proceed,  but  was  unable ;  but  signs^  looks^  and  broken 
accents  explained  Uie  happiness  she  enjoyed.  Just  before  sho 
breathed  her  last^  she  gave  us  a  parting  smile,  and  her  happy  spirit 
entered  into  rest. 

"  There  were  many  witnesses  around  her  dying  bed,  to  whom  I 
spoke  with  much  fervour  and  fidelity.  The  impression  will,  I  trust,  be 
lasting.  Vast  numbers  from  respect,  as  well  as  from  curiosity,  at- 
tended her  funeral. 

<<  I  had  a  visit  from  Mr.  Graves  lately.  He  seems  much  alive  to 
God,  and  much  in  earnest  for  the  salvation  of  souls.  Mrs.  Ingham  and 
Lady  Margaret  intend  coming  to  Donnington  next  week.  I  wish  you 
or  your  brother  coidd  give  us  a  little  of  your  time  to  meet  them  here. 
May  every  blessing  attend  you,  prays  your  most  faithful  friend, 

''S.  Huntingdon." 

To  return  to  Mr.  Wesley :  before  the  death  of  Miss  Cooper 
he  quitted  Donnington  Park,  and  preached  in  various  places  in 
Yorkshire.  On  his  return  thence,  he  visited  Epworth,  the  place 
of  his  nativity,  where  he  was  refused  the  use  of  the  church  by 
the  curate.  In  the  afternoon  the  church  was  exceedingly  full, 
a  report  being  spread  that  Mr.  Wesley  was  to  preach.  After 
service,  David  Taylor,  who  had  accompanied  him  from  Don- 
nington Park,  stood  in  the  church-yard,  and  gave  notice,  as 
the  people  came  out,  that  Mr.  Wesley,  not  being  permitted  to 
preach  in  the  church,  designed  to  preach  there  at  six  o'clock. 
"  Accordingly  at  six  (says  he)  I  came,  and  found  such  a  con- 
gregation as,  I  believe,  Epworth  never  saw  before.  I  stood 
near  the  east  end  of  the  church,  upon  my  father's  tomb-stone, 
and  cried,  ^  The  kingdom  of  heaven  is  not  meat  and  drink ; 
but  righteousness,  and  peace,  and  joy  in  the  Holy  Gliost.' " 

Mr.  Wesley  returned  to  Donnington  Park  on  the  19th  of 
June.     The  next  day  being  Sunday,  he  preached  in  the  mom- 


58  JHB  I4PE  AND  TIMSS  OF 

ing  at  Ogbrook,  and  at  six  in  the  evening  at  Melbourne.  At 
the  latter  place,  and  at  Markfield,  the  congregations  were  so 
large,  that  they  could  not  be  accommodated  within  the  church, 
and  Mr.  Wesley  was  obliged  to  preach  in  the  open  air.  At  this 
period  Mr.  Wesley's  visits  to  Donnington  Park  were  very  fre- 
quent ;  Lady  Huntingdon  having  a  very  sincere  esteem  for  hjm, 
and  they  were  much  unitpd  in  sentiments  of  a  theological  nature. 
Easy  and  affable  in  his  demeanour,  he  accommodated  himself  to 
every  society,  and  showed  how  happily  the  most  finished  courtesy 
may  be  blended  with  the  most  perfect  piety.  In  his  conver- 
saUon,  we  might  be  at  a  loss  which  to  admire  most,  his  fine 
classical  taste,  his  extensive  knowledge  of  men  and  things, 
or  his  overflowing  goodness  of  heart.  While  the  grave  and 
serious  were  charmed  with  his  wisdom,  his  sportive  sallies  of 
innocent  mirth  delighted  even  the  young  and  thoughtless ;  ^qd 
both  saw,  in  bis  uninterrupted  cheerfulness,  the  ej^cejlepcy  of 
true  religion. 

It  was  about  this  period  that  Lady  Huntingdon  became 
acquainted  with  the  well-known  and  much  admired  Dr.  Watts, 
to  whom  her  Ladyship  appears  to  have  been  introduced  by  h\» 
kind  friend  and  patroness,  Lady  Abney.  Between  these  truly 
excellent  characters  a  warm  friendship  existed,  which,  however, 
was  of  short  (Juration,  as  the  Poctor  and  Lady  Abney  were  ^t 
this  time  rapidly  descending  the  vale  of  life,  and  a  few  short 
years  after  were  numbered  amongst  the  spirits  of  the  just  n^de 
perfect ;  whilst  the  npble  and  elect  Countess  was  destined, 
during  the  protracted  period  of  half  a  century,  to  exhibit  to 
mankmd  a  hfe  of  the  most  extensive  usefulness,  unbounded 
intrepidity,  and  intrinsic  excellence,  in  the  cause  of  religion. 
Unequivocally  may  it  be  said,  that  her  character  has  never  been 
surpassed  or  equalled  in  any  age,  or  even  nation. 

From  a  fragment  of  a  letter  still  reniaining,  it  has  been 
[ascertained,  that  somewhat  about  this  period  Dr.  Watts  trans- 
mitted to  Lady  Huntingdon  the  manuscript  copy  of  a  poem, 
entitled  "  The  Grave,"  at  the  particular  request  of  the  author, 
the  Rev.  Robert  Blair,  a  Scotch  divine,  minister  of  Athelstane- 
ford,  in  East  Lothian.*     With  this  accomplished  man  her  Lady- 


•  The  very  popular,  but  unequal,  poem  of  "  The  Grave,"  was  first  printed 
in  London  in  1743;  and  soon  after  its  appearance  her  Ladyship  was  pre- 


and  was  at  last  compelled  to  cross  his  own  inclination  to  please  popular  taste. 

**  The  booksellers  can  scarcely  thinks  (stivs  Mr.  Blair,)  considering  bow  critical 

'ge  we  live  in,  with  re«pect  to  such  kind  pf  writings,  that  a  person  living 


e  hundred  miles  from  London  pould  write  so  as  to  be  accept^le  to  the 
iM»l4twd  polite." 


SELINAf  GOUVTSSft  PF  flUKTIHGDOK.  59 

ship  was  not  altogether  unacquaioted^  having  often  heard 
honourable  mention  made  of  him  by  her  valued  friends,  Colonel 
and  Lady  Frances  Gardiner.  Lady  Huntingdon  appears  to 
have  approved  of  the  ppem,  and  ^dyis^d  its  publication^  for  in  a 
letter,  written  some  considerable  time  after?  Colopel  Gardiner 
says : — 

^^  Our  good  friend  is  inuch  flattered  by  vour  Ladyship's  approbation 
of  his  production.  Good  Dr.  Watts  has  likewise  signified  his  approval 
of  the  piece  in  a  manner  most  obliging.  Many  thanks  for  your  oft- 
repeated  expressions  of  regard  for  one  so  worthli^  as  I  am.  I  shall 
convey  your  Ladyship's  assurances  of  esteem  and  reject  for  Dr.  Blair, 
to  whom  I  intend  writing  very  soon.  Few  stand  in  need  of  your 
prayers  and  advice  more  thf^l  }  dp.  May  the  Almighty  Saviour  pre- 
serve your  valuable  jife  ;  bless  your  exertions  for  tpe  pternal  m>pd  pf 
others ;  an4  thaf;  you  may  ever  eiijoy  a  thriving  soul  in  a  he^tbfiu  bo^Xf 
shall  be  the  cox^tinual  prayer  of,  my  dear  2i|a4aa^|  ypur  mos(  faitbfiMi 
most  obliged,  and  most  humble  servant." 

For  Dr.  Watts,  Colonel  Gardiner  had  a  most  sincere  esteem. 
He  had  been  introduced  to  the  Doctor  at  Lord  Hqntingdoq's 
house,  during  one  of  his  visits  to  the  metropolis.  Speaking  of 
this  sweet  singer  in  our  Israel,  he  says, — 

*^  I  have  been  in  pain  ]e9t  that  excellent  person  should  have  been 
called  to  heaven  before  I  had  an  opportunity  to  let  him  know  how 
much  his  works  have  been  blessed  to  me,  and  of  course  of  returning 
him  my  hearty  thanks :  for  though  it  is  owipg  to  the  operation  of  the 
blessed  Spirit,  that  any  thing  works  effectually  upon  our  hearts,  yet  if 
we  arc  not  thankful  to  the  instrument  which  Ood  is  pleased  to  ma^a 
use  ofy  whom  we  do  see,  how  shall  we  be  tbankful  to  the  Almighty, 
whom  ^ve  h^ve  not  seeu  ?  Therefore  I  must  beg  the  favour  of  you 
to  let  him  know,  that  I  intended  to  have  waited  upon  him  in  t}io 
beginning  of  last  Hay,  when  I  was  in  Lopdon,  but  was  informed,  and 
that  to  my  great  sorrow,  that  he  was  extremely  ill,  and  therefore  I  did 
not  think  that  a  visit  would  have  been  seasonable ;  especially  con- 
sidering th^  I  have  not  the  happiness  tp  be  much  acquainted  witJi 
the  Doctor ;  but  well  am  I  acquainted  with  hi^  works,  especially  with 
his  psalms,  hymns,  and  lyrics.  How  often,  by  singing  some  of  these 
to  myself  on  horseback  and  elsewhere^  has  the  evil  spirit  been  made 
to  flee  away ; — 

*  Where'er  my  heart  in  tune  was  found, 
Likp  David's  harp  of  solemn  sound.' 

**  I  desire  to  bless  God  for  the  good  news  of  his  recovery :  and  en- 
treat you  to  tell  him,  that  although  I  cannot  keep  pace  with  him  here, 
in  celebrating  the  liigh  praises  of  our  glorious  Redeemer,  which  is  the 
great  grief  of  my  heart,  yet  I  am  persuaded,  that  when  I  join  the 
glorious  company  above,  where  there  will  be  no  drawbacks,  that  none 
will  outsing  mp  th^f  e ;  because  I  shall  not  Qnd  any  that  has  been  mora 
ipdebti^d  to  the  nrppd^u}  rkhes  of  d|f^e  gjft^e  tA%i  I  ime 


60  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

'  Give  me  a  place  at  thy  saints*  feet. 
Or  some  fallen  angel's  vacant  seat ; 
ril  strive  to  sing  as  loud  as  they 
Who  sit  above  in  brighter  day.* 

*'I  know  it  is  natural  for  every  one  who  has  felt  that  almighty 

power  which  raised  our  glorious  Redeemer  from  the  grave  to  believe 

his  case  singular.     But  I  have  made  every  one  in  this  respect  submit, 

as  soon  as  he  has  heard  my  story ;  and  if  you  seem  so  surprised  at  the 

account  which  I  gave  you,  what  will  you  be  when  you  hear  it  all  ? 

*  Oh  !  if  I  had  an  angePs  voice, 
And  could  be  heard  from  pole  to  pole ; 
I. would  to  (ill  the  listening  world 
Proclaim  thy  goodness  to  my  soul.* 

^'  I  cannot  express  (says  the  Countess),  how  much  I  esteem  that 
most  excellent  man,  Colonel  Gardiner.  What  love  and  mercy  has  God 
shown  to  him  in  snatching  him  as  a  brand  from  the  burning !  Ho  is 
truly  aHvc  to  God ;  and  pleads  nothing  but  the  plea  of  the  publican  in 
the  temple — God  be  merciful  to  me  a  sinner  !  Surely  God's  work  is 
perfect.  What  a  monument  of  the  grace,  mercy,  and  love  of  God  I  To 
glorify  God,  and  to  serve  him  with  all  his  ransomed  powers,  is  now  his 
only  aim  and  end," 


CHAPTER  V. 


Lay  Preachers — Mr.  Wesley's  defence  of  them — Converted  Clergy-^Death  of 
Lady  Huntingdon's  Sons,  George  and  Ferdinando  Hastings — First  Methodist 

Conference — Dr.  Doddridge — Letter  from  Lady  Huntingdon — Mr.  Jones 

The  Pretender — Lord  Carteret — George  II, — Death  of  Colonel  Gardiner 

Letters  from  Mr.  Wesley,  Dr.  Doddridge,  and  Charles  Wesley. 

Methodism  had  now  assumed  some  form  and  consistence,  and 
bad  taken  deep  root  in  the  land.  Meeting-houses  were  erected 
in  various  places,  societies  were  formed  and  disciplined,  funds 
raised,  rules  enacted,  lay-preachers  admitted,  and  a  regular 
system  of  itinerancy  begun.  When  the  great  leaders  bad  once 
admitted  the  assistance  of  lay-preacbers,  volunteers  in  abun- 
dance offered  their  zealous  services.  If  they  bad  been  disposed 
to  be  nice  in  the  selection,  it  was  not  in  their  power.  They 
bad  called  up  a  spirit  which  they  could  not  lay ;  but  they  were 
still  able  to  control  and  direct  it.  They  bad  taken  no  step  in 
their  whole  progress  so  reluctantly  as  this.  The  measure  was 
forced  upon  tnem  by  circumstances,  and  by  the  strong  remon- 
strances of  Lady  Huntingdon,  whose  penetrating  mind  perceived 
that  if  these   men   were  not  permitted  to  preach  with  the 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  61 

sanction  of  Mr.  Whitefield  and  Mr.  Wesley,  they  would  not  be 
withheld  from  exercising  the  power  which  they  felt  in  them- 
selves. Her  Ladyship  had  coolly  and  impartially  considered  the 
difficulties  of  the  case,  and  upon  the  calmest  view  of  it,  notwith- 
standing her  educational  prejudices  in  favour  of  the  Established 
Church,  and  her  repugnance  to  the  irregularity  which  was 
sanctioned  by  this  step,  she  still  thought,  that  those  who  were 
called  only  of  God,  and  not  of  man,  had  more  right  to  preach 
than  those  who  were  called  only  of  man  and  not  of  God.  Now, 
that  many  of  the  clergy,  though  called  of  man,  are  not  called  of 
God  to  preach  his  Gospel,  is  undeniable :  first,  because  they 
themselves  utterly  disclaim,  nay,  and  ridicule  the  inward  call ; 
and  secondly,  because  they  do  not  know  what  the  Gospel  is ;  of 
consequence  they  do  not^  and  cannot  preach  it. 

Mr.  Wesley  justified  the  measure,  by  showing  how  it  had 
arisen  :  a  plain  account  of  the  whole  proceeding  was,  he  thought, 
the  best  defence  of  it : — 

''  And  I  am  bold  to  afRrm  (says  he,  in  one  of  his  appeals  to  Men 
of  Reason  and  Religion,)  that  these  unlettered  men  have  help  from 
God  for  that  great  work,  the  saving  souls  from  death;  seeing  ho 
hath  enabled,  and  doth  enable  them  still,  to  turn  manv  to  righteous- 
ness.  Thus  hath  he  ^  destroyed  the  wisdom  of  the  wise,  and  brought 
to  nought  the  understanding  of  the  prudent/  When  they  imagined 
they  had  effectually  shut  the  door,  and  locked  up  every  passage, 
whereby  any  help  could  come  to  two  or  three  preachers,  weak  in  body 
as  well  as  soul,  whom  they  might  reasonably  believe  would,  humanly 
speaking,  wear  themselves  out  in  a  short  time^whcn  they  Imd  gained 
tneir  point,  by  securing  (as  they  supposed)  all  the  men  of  learning  in 
the  nation,  *  He  that  sitteth  in  heaven  laughed  them  to  scorn/  and  came 
upon  them  by  a  \vay  they  thought  not  of.  Out  of  the  stones  he  raised 
up  those  who  should  beget  children  to  Abraham.  We  had  no  more 
foresight  of  this  than  you.  Nay,  we  had  the  deepest  prejudices 
against  it,  until  wc  could  not  but  own  that  God  gave  wisdom  from 
above  to  those  unlearned  and  ignorant  men,  so  that  the  work  of  the 
Lord  prospered  in  their  hands,  and  sinners  were  daily  converted  to 
God." 

About  this  time,  several  clergymen,  who  were  awakened  by 
the  preaching  of  Messrs.  Wesley,  Mr.  Whitefield,  and  their 
zealous  coadjutors,  boldly  came  forth,  and,  according  to  the 
measure  of  light  dawning  on  their  minds,  bore  a  faithful  testi- 
mony to  the  atonement  and  grace  of  the  Redeemer.  Of  these, 
the  Rev.  John  Hodges,  Rector  of  Wenvo ;  Rev.  Henry  Piers, 
Vicar  of  Bexley,  Kent ;  Rev.  Samuel  Taylor,  Vicar  of  Quin- 
tin,  Gloucestershire ;  Rev.  Charles  Manning,  Vicar  of  Hayes, 
Rev.  Vincent  Perronet,  Vicar  of  Shoreham,  Sussex ;  and  the 
Rev.  John  Merriton,  from  the  Isle  of  Man,  joined  the  Methodist 


THE  Lin  AXD  TDIES  OF 

Society,  attended  lefenl  of  the  Confereoce  meetings,  and  la- 
boured lealoosk  tn  pmrntTCe  tke  cause  of  God  oar  Saviour, 
whereTer  they  ieaientted,  ft§  well  as  in  their  respectrre  parbhe??. 
To  these  was  added  the  ReT.  Richard  Thomas  Bateman,  a  man 
of  high  birth,  and  great  natural  endowments.  He  was  Rector 
of  St*  Bartholomew's  the  Great.  Londoo^  and  also  held  a  liTing 
in  Wales,  where  he  was  awakened  under  the  powerful  rainistrv  of 
tlie  Rer.  HoweU  Daries. 

These  excellettt  men  were  earlj  and  intimately  acquainted 
with  Lady  Hontinedon,  whose  patronage  and  support  were 
powerfully  influential  in  eieitnig  and  encoun^ng  them  to  per- 
serere  in  an  itinerant  coarse  of  life ;  and  some  of  them  prored 
eminently  useful  and  laborious  ministers  of  the  Grcspel.  They 
did  not  disdain  to  associate  with  the  lay-preachers  in  the^e 
labours  of  lore — they  were  one  in  heart  and  mind  with  tho^'e 
deToted  men,  many  of  whom  were  instrumental  either  in 
awakening,  converting,  or  building  up  souLs  labours  which  have 
ever  been  re^rded  as  the  great  business  and  the  ^^eculiar  glory 
of  a  l^lethodist  preacher.  After  a  time  many  of  tt:e  first  preachers 
withdrew  from  the  career,  not  because  thev  were  desiroiK  of 
returning  to  the  ways  of  the  world,  and  emancipating  themselves 
from  the  restraints  of  their  new  profession,  but  because  the 
labour  was  too  great.  Through  the  instrumentality  of  Lady 
Huntingdon,  Messrs.  Maxfield,  Merrick,  Richards,  Reeres,  and 
Williams,  whom  her  Ladyship  particubrly  noticed  and  recom- 
mended to  Mr.  Wesley  as  the  first  lay-preachers  who  assisted 
liirfi,  were,  with  several  others,  episcopallv  ordained,  became 
useful  ministers  of  the  Establishment,  and  most  indefatigable 
and  successful  labourers  in  the  vineyard. 

tt  pleased  the  Almighty  Disposer  of  human  events  to  remove 
from  Lady  Huntingdon,  at  this  time,  two  of  her  beloved  children, 
George  and  Ferdmando  Hastings ;  one  aged  thirteen  and  the 
other  eleven,  within  a  very  short  period  of  each  other.  They 
died  of  the  small-pox,  a  disease  very  prevalent  at  that  time. 

Her  Ladyship's  mind  was  much  affected  with  this  solemn 
event:  she  was  properlv  sensible  of  the  loss  she  had  sustained, 
and  felt  as  a  mother.  Ker  only  source  of  relief  was  the  un- 
bounded goodness  of  God,  exhibited  in  the  precious  promises  of 
his  word.  Deeply  humbled  before  Him  under  this  bereaving 
stroke,  yet  was  she  enabled  to  reap  much  spiritual  profit ;  she 
sow  light  through  the  dark  cloud,  for  the  Lord  can  and  will 
comfort  the  mourners  in  Zion. 

On  the  B&fli  of  June,  1744,  the  first  Methodist  Conference 
wm  held  m  London.    There  were  six  deii^men  and  four 


i; 


SfiLIl^Ai  COUNTBSa  OF  tiUNTIKGOON4  63 

travelling  preachers  present  Lady  Huntingdon  was  then  in 
London,  anil  received  them  with  much  liospitality  at  her  house. 
This  is  the  first  mention  we  have  of  any  public  service  at  her 
Ladyship's  during  I^rd  Huntingdon's  hfe-time.  On  this 
occa^on  Mr.  Wesley  preached  from  this  passage,  **  What  hath 
God  wrought  ?"  Mr.  Piers,  Vicar  of  Bexleyj  and  Mr.  Hodges, 
Hector  of  Wenvo,  assisted  at  the  other  parts  of  the  service ; 
Messrs.  Maxfield,  Richards,  and  Bennett,  who  settled  as  minister 
of  a  dissenting  congre^tion,  and  John  Downes,  who  died  in  the 
Work,  were  present.  Downes  was  a  man  of  sincere,  unaffected 
iety,  of  great  affliction,  and  possessed  of  an  uncommon  genius : 
e  died  in  the  pulpit  of  West-street  chapel.  His  last  text  was, 
^*  Come  unto  me^  all  ye  that  labour  and  are  heavy  laden,  and  I 
will  give  you  rest."  His  words  were  unusually  weighty,  and  with 
power,  but  few :  he  perceived  he  could  not  finish  his  discourse^ 
and  gave  out  this  verse  of  the  hymn — 

"  Father,  I  lift  my  heart  to  tbee, 
No  other  help  I  know." 

His  voice  failing,  he  fell  upon  his  knees,  as  meaning  to  pray, 
but  be  could  not  be  heard.  The  preachers  ran  and  lifted  him 
from  his  knees,  for  he  could  not  raise  himself.  They  carried 
him  to  bed^  where  he  lay  quiet  and  speechless  fill  eight  o'clock 
on  Saturday  morning  (Nov.  Gth^  1774,)  and  then  fell  asleep. 
His  widow,  who  had  but  one  sixpence  in  the  world  at  'the 
motnent  of  liis  death,  was  afterwards  befriended  by  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon. 

Her  Ladyship,  though  circumscribed  in  her  means,  continued 
to  pursue  her  labours  with  new  zeal,  and  the  Redeemer  crowned 
them  with  augmented  blessings.  She  ever  kept  one  great  object 
in  view,  the  conversion  of  souls  to  God,  and  the  increased  do- 
minion of  the  religion  of  Jesus  over  the  hearts  and  lives  of  its 
professors.  She  now  (in  1744)  formed  some  of  those  friend- 
ships with  pious  and  distinguished  persons  beyond  the  pale  of 
her  own  communion,  which  were  the  honour  and  delight  of  her 
future  days.  She  became  the  friend  of  Doddridge,*  author  of 
*'  The  Rise  and  Progress  of  Religion  in  the  Soul,"  a  work  of 
such  excellencies  and  defects  as  render  it  equally  hazardous  to 
praise  or  blame;  but  which,  with  all  the  faults  imputed  to  it,  has 
been  honoured  with  extensive  usefulness.  The  letters  of  the 
Doctor  cannot  be  laid  before  the  reader,  but  those  of  the 
Countess  sufficiently  indicate  the  tone  of  the  correspondence, 
as  the  following  specimen  will  testify.     It  was  written  in  answer 

*  To  wliose  pupil,  Ritdon  D«rtacott»  her  Lad^^p  it  jitmed  with  eulogy  in 
a  letter  from  Mrs.  Aiine  Duttoo,  written  alNrat  Urn  petioa. 


64  tH£  LIFE  AKO  TIMES  O^ 

to  one  from  Dr.  Doddridge,  and  treats  principally  on  the  neces- 
sity of  preaching  free  grace : — 

''May  10th,  1744. 

"  Dear  Sir, — I  was  most  extremely  obliged  by  your  very  kind  letter, 
and  though  I  am  very  glad  and  thankful  to  hear  from  my  Christian 
friends,  yet  I  consider  their  callings  as  so  many  interruptions  from 
what  their  inclinations  are  often  most  disposed  to.  We  wont  not  that 
friendship  which  the  world  has,  discovering  its  degree  by  the  mere 
outside  shows  of  ceremony,  but  those  hearts  who  knotc  Him  that 
was  ftt)m  the  beginning ;  by  this  acquaintance  they  can  trace  back  the 
several  other  inftuences  upon  their  minds,  besides  the  secret  ones  of 
his  to  them,  and  will  not  wonder  such  things  should  help  them  to 
maintain  an  esteem  of  mankind  till  a  stronger  motive  supplies  its  place : 
no,  my  worthy  friend,  never  be  under  any  care  about  any  thing  relating 
to  me ;  I  never  can  esteem  you  less,  and  only  more,  by  the  further 
favour  tbe  Lord  Jesus  Christ  shall  and  will  still  more  bestow  upon 
you ;  and  may  you  abound  in  hope,  tbrough  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost !  If  I  understand  upon  what  your  satisfaction  was  founded  in 
my  discourse  Avith  Mr.  Jones,*  I  think  it  depended  upon  my  open  and 
free  declaration  of  present  salvation — to  be  free,  and  through  Jesus 
Christ  alone ;  and  yet,  for  many  reasons,  your  being  as  open  in  it  as  a 
preacher  may  not  be  so  effectual,  to  your  universal  service  I  mean,  as 
by  attending  to  smaller  degrees  of  good  in  all.  In  my  last  letter  to 
Mr.  Whitefield,  I  think  I  have  said  to  this  effect :  '  It  is  for  this  point 
we  must  contend,  of  which  we  arc  witnesses :  with  that  tender  regard 
to  all  degrees  or  steps  leading  to  it,  by  which  we  can  alone  extricate 
ourselves  from  the  trifling  wTangles  of  the  schools  upon  words,  and 
better  confound  the  infidel  world.  It  is  the  only  answer  to  that  re- 
mark, which,  though  I  never  have  heard  it,  is  surely  strong ;  viz.,  that 
uncertain  ties  must  level  all  religious  feelings  too  much ;  and  they 
must  arise  always  rather  upon  the  conclusions  of  men,  than  the  sapient 
evidence  of  the  divine  propositions. 

"  Here,  then,  my  friend,  is  what  our  Lord  offers  us.  It  is  for  such 
a  rehgion  I  live,  and  in  which,  with  his  grace,  I  Avill  die.  This  mani- 
festation in  the  soul  of  Britain  will  prove  as  satisfactory  as  light  is  to 
the  eye ;  and  whenever  this  light  appears  equally  great,  there  will  be  a 
perfect  agreement;  the  degrees  may  and  will  cause  disputes^  as  about 
the  several  imperfect  objects  a  day-davra  produces ;  and  in  this  state, 
the  well-meanmg  among  the  Moravians  seem,  disputing  witli  all  who 
see  differently  with  them.  In  this  case  our  Lord's  rule  seems  best, 
which  was,  not  to  destroy  error  with  evil,  but  by  the  establishment  of 
truth  the  rather  to  let  it  fall  from  its  own  weakness :  exhort  all  tlie 

*  This  gentleman  held  the  living  of  Ripton  Ahbots,  in  Huntingdonshire,  and 
appears  to  have  possessed  not  only  a  highly  catholic  spirit,  but  sound  learning. 
Lady  Huntingdon's  conversation  was  highly  beneficial  in  leading  him  to  clearer 
views  of  divine  truth.  Mr.  Jones  was  afterwards  presented  to  the  Vicarage  of 
Alconbury,  which  he  resigned  in  a  few  vears  for  a  living  in  Bedfordahire. 
Whilst  there  he  accepted  the  curacy  of  Wehvyn  from  Dr.  Young,  the  celebrated 
author  of  **  Niffht  Thoo^hts,^  and  continuea  there  till  the  Doctor's  decease. 
He  was  killed  by  a  W  from  his  horse. 


SELINA,    COUNTESS   OF   liUNTINODON.  66 

souls  back,  and  the  deadly  thing  will  not'  hurt  them  though  they 
drink  of  it.  I  most  fear  their  political  schemes,  and  cannot  tell  how 
to  account  for  many  things  upon  any  other  principle  than  as  prior  to 
the  introduction  of  this^  as  their  phrase  is.  Infallible  Church  ;  and, 
indeed,  when  we  go  heyond  the  written  Word,  which  will,  simply 
attended  to,  open  with  the  light  hy  degrees,  as  we  receive  its  hlessed 
rays ;  I  say,  when  we  go  heyond  Uiis,  where  must  the  great  confusion 
end  ?  In  nothing  hut  a  mere  Traditionary  Church,  maide  up  of  many 
pious  hut  superstitious  minds  ;  which  I  hope  Turkey  is  not  without. 

*'  Your  sermon*  I  read  with  much  care,  as  well  as  attention  to  your 
request,  that  I  would  sit  with  pen  and  paper  hy  me,  to  mark  all  I 
could  find  amiss  in  it ;  but  if  it  %vill  be  any  satisfaction  to  you  to  know 
it,  I  assure  you,  with  all  my  care  I  was  not  able  to  make  one  objection, 
nor  even  to  fear  one  from  any  mortal  for  you  ;  and  I  must  heg  you  will 
be  so  good  to  let  me  have  a  hundred  sent,  in  order  to  give  away.  I 
hope  Mr.  Hervey's  fears  are  groundless  ahout  the  dedication ;  it  is,  in 
all  respects,  the  very  hest  judsed  one,  hoth  for  your  character  and  his, 
that  I  think  could  be  penned ;  you  have  done  right,  and  my  grand 
maxim  will  support  you  :  "  Do  that  which  is  hest  and  leave  the  rest 
to  God."  By  your  confidence  in  me,  you  have  led  me  to  he  thus  free 
to  you.  I  speak  from  my  heart ;  it  may  mean  well,  hut  do  you  cor- 
rect its  judgments  when  you  find  them  wrong.  I  think  I  should  be 
even  glad  to  confess  them  so,  whenever  I  see  them  so ;  and  I  hope 
for  more  excellent  ways  of  godliness  and  truth ;  with  many  wishes 
to  Mrs.  Doddridge  for  her  safety,  and  prayers  for  you,  my  friend,  I 
remain,  most  sincerely  and  faithfully  yours, 

"  S.  Huntingdon." 

"  P.S.  Do  not  forget  unworthy  me  in  your  prayers.  Lady  Frances 
Gardiner  is  to  he  in  England  soon,  as  Mr.  Whiteficld  writes  me  word." 

In  the  year  1 745,  Lady  Huntingdon  felt,  in  common  with 
most  who  were  deeply  interested  in  the  welfare  of  religion,  the 
most  distressing  alarms  from  the  rebellion  in  the  nortn.  The 
Jacobite  faction,  which  existed  chiefly  in  Scotland,  and  in  the 
northern  parts  of  the  kingdom,  made  a  last  and  desperate  effort  to 
overturn  our  liberties,  and  enthrone  the  Pretender.  The  exiled 
Stuarts,  who  had  ever  been  the  dupes  of  the  Roman  Catholic 
princes,  were  again  thrown  upon  our  shores,  as  an  apple  of 
oiscord,  to  divide  our  attention,  and  procure  a  diversion  in 
favour  of  the  enemy.  The  young  Pretender  landed  in  Scotland 
when  there  were  no  hopes  of  shaking  the  throne  of  his  rival ; 
and  with  all  the  silly  fondness  for  royal  pomp  which  charac- 
terised his  family,  wasted  his  precious  moments  of  unexpected 
prosperity  in  proclaiming  his  father,  and  disposing  of  seats  in 

«  For  the  benefit  of  the  Hospital  at  Northampton,  or  Northampton  Infirmary. 
VOL.  I. — F 


66  THE   LiJE   AND   TIMES   OF 

the  paradise  which  he  had  not  yet  regained.  Di^ring  the  struggle 
many  vahiable  lives  were  lost  ;  and  the  excellent  Colonel 
Gardiner  fell  a  sacrifice  to  the  good  cause,  which  eventually 
triumphed. 

While  the  civil  and  religious  liberties  of  our  country  were 
thus  exposed  to  jeopardy,  it  was  natural  for  the  government  to 
look  around  with  the  keen  eye  of  jealousy,  to  see  which  way  men's 
hearts  turned.     That  the  character  of  tne  government  should  be 
affected  by  the  violence  of  political  feeling  is  not  at  all  surpri- 
sing :  and  if  persons  in  power  have  occasionally  shown  hatred 
to  the  Methodists,  their  malice  has  been  defeated — either  by  the 
tolerant  disposition  of  the  monarch,  or  by  a  variety  of  other  cir- 
cumstances which  have  had  a  favourable  effect  upon  religious 
libertv.      Although  the  storm  of  rebelHon  and  popery  was  dis- 
pelledi  by  the  victory  at  Culloden,  the  principles  that  distin- 
guished the  bulk  of  the  Pretender's  adherents  diffused  them- 
selves throughout    the   country.      When  a   rogue   wishes   to 
supplant  an  nonest  man  in  the  favour  of  his  prince,  it  is  no 
uncommon  thing  for  him  to  libel  his  character  by  a  charge  of 
disloyalty.     For  the  attachment  they  showed  to  the  great  cause 
of  civil  and  religious  liberty,  and  for  the  joy  that  some  of  them 
expressed  at  the  downfall  of  the  house  of  Stuart,  the  Metho- 
dist were  held  up  as  disaffected  to  their  own  country.     The 
strangest  suspicious  and  calumnies  were  circulated ;  and  men 
believe  any  calumnies,    however  preposterously  absurd,  against 
those  of  whom  they  are  disposed  to  think  ill.    It  was  commonly 
reported  that   Mr.  Wesley  was  a  Papist,  if  not  a  Jesuit  ;  that 
he  kept  Popish  priests  in  his  house :  nay,  it  was  beyond  dispute 
that  he  received  large  remittances  from  Spain,  in  order  to  make 
a  party  among  the  poor,  and  when  the  Spaniards  landed,  he 
was  to  join  them  witn  twenty  thousand  men.     Sometimes  it  was 
reported  that  he  was  in  prison  upon  a  charge  of  high  treason  : 
and  there  were  people  who  confidently  affirmed  that  they  had 
seen  him  with  the  Pretender  in  France.      Reports  to  this  effect 
were  so  prevalent,  that  when  a  proclamation  was  issued  requir- 
ing all  Papists  to  leave  London,  he  thought  it  prudent  to  remain 
a  week  there,  that  he  might  cut  off  all  occasion  of  reproach  ; 
but  this  did  not  prevent  the  Surrey  magistrates  from  summoning 
him,  and  making  him  take  the  oath  of  allegiance,  and  sign  the 
declaration  against  Popery.     Mr.  Wesley  was  indifferent  to  all 
accusations;  but  the  char^  of  disaffection,  in  such  times,  might 
have  brought  upon  him  serious  inconvenience.  He  therefore  drew 
up  a  loyal  address  to  the  King,  in  the  name  of  *^  The  Societies  in 
derision  called  Methodists."     They  thought  it  incumbent  upon 


SELIKA,  C0UNTE8S  OF  HUNTINGDON.  67 

them  to  offer  this  address.  This  paper  said,  they  must  stand  as 
a  distinct  body  from  their  brethren ;  but  they  protested  that 
they  were  a  part,  however  mean,  of  the  Protestant  Church  esta- 
blished in  tnese  kingdoms,  and  that  it  was  their  principle  to 
revere  the  higher  powers  as  of  God,  and  to  be  subject  for  con- 
science' sake. 

Lady  Huntingdon  was  likewise  attacked  in  a  very  scandalous 
manner,  and  accused  of  favouring;  the  Pretender.  These  asper- 
sions tended  to  ag^avate  the  mcreasing  obloquy  under  wnich 
her  Ladyship,  and  tnose  whom  she  patronised,  were  now  labour- 
ing. But  she  paid  little  attention  to  these  malicious  reports, 
until  several  of  the  itinerants  under  her  auspices  were  beaten 
and  ill-treated.  Some  of  the  neighbouring  Magi^ti-ates  refused 
to  act  in  behalf  of  the  Methodists,  when  their  persons  and  pro- 
perty were  attacked ;  and  her  Ladyship  was  forced  to  apply  to 
nigher  authority.  She  addressed  a  remonstrance  to  Lord 
Carteret,  one  of  his  Majesty's  Principal  Secretaries  of  State,  who 
laid  it  before  the  King.  George  II.  was  a  prince  of  superior 
accomplishments — of  an  enlarged  and  liberal  mind — and  well 
skilled  in  the  art  of  government.  True  to  those  principles 
that  placed  him  upon  the  throne,  he  continued  to  the  last  the 
decided  friend  of  civil  and  religious  liberty.  If  the  evil  spirit 
that  resided  in  the  clergy  walked  forth  upon  some  occasions,  it 
was  instantly  laid  by  the  genial  influence  of  a  tolerant  monarch. 
It  is  well  known  that  some  evil-minded  persons  commenced  a 
prosecution  against  the  amiable  Doddridge  for  keeping  an 
academy,  which  being  represented  to  the  King,  he  instantly  put 
a  stop  to  it,  declaring  that  he  would  suffer  no  persecution  in  nis 
reign. 

Lord  Carteret,  a  nobleman  well  known  in  the.annals  of  the 
state,  was  upon  very  intimate  terms  with  the  family  of  Lord 
Huntingdon.  Lady  Worsley,*  the  mother  of  Lady  Carteret,  to 
whose  illustrious  descent  were  added  a  fine  person  and  delicate 
understanding,  was  a  relative  of  Lady  Huntingdon's.  Lord 
Carteret's  reply  to  Lady  Huntingdon's  communication  was  dated 
November  19t{i,  1745,  only  a  few  days  before  his  going  out  of 
office,  in  which  he  was  succeeded  by  the  Earl  of  Harrington. 
It  was  as  follows : — 

*  She  was  sole  daughter  of  Lord  Weymouth,  and  descended  from  Lady 
Prances  Devereuz,  eldest  daughter  of  Robert,  Eari  of  Essex.  Sir  Robert  and 
Lady  Worslay  were  persons  of  great  honour  and  integrity,  and  with  Lady  Car- 
teret and  the  Countess  Granville,  mother  to  Lord  Carteret,  frequently  attended 
the  preaching  of  the  first  Methodists.  Lady  Worsley  was  aunt  to  the  Duchess 
of  Somerset,  better  known  as  the  Countess  of  Hertford,  celebrated  for  her 
patvonage  of  literature  and  btr  own  amiable  genius. 

f2 


^8  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

''  Madam, — I  laid  your  remonstrance  before  His  Majesty  the  King : 
my  Royal  Master  commands  me  to  assure  your  Ladyship,  that,  as  Uie 
father  and  protector  of  his  people,  he  will  suffer  no  persecution  on 
account  of  religion ;  and  I  am  desired  to  inform  all  magistrates  to 
aflford  protection  and  countenance  to  such  persons  as  may  require 
to  be  protected  in  the  conscientious  dischai*gc  of  their  religious  obser- 
yances. 

^  His  Majesty  is  fully  sensible  of  your  Ladyship^s  attachment  to  the 
House  of  Hanover ;  and  has  directed  me  to  assure  your  Ladyship  of 
his  most  gracious  favour  and  kindest  wishes.  I  have  the  honour  to  be, 
Madam,  your  Ladyship's  most  obedient  humble  servant, 

"  Cabtebkt." 

Mr.  Charles  Wesley  was  more  seriously  incommoded  by  the 
imputation  of  disloyalty  than  his  brother,  or  Lady  Huntingdon. 
Wnen  he  was  itinerating  in  Yorkshire,  an  accusation  was  laid 
against  him  of  having  spoken  treasonable  words,  and  witnesses 
were  summoned  before  the  Magistrates  at  Wakefield  to  depose 
against  him.  Fortunately  for  him  he  learnt  this  in  time  to 
present  himself  and  confront  the  witnesses.  He  bad  prayed 
that  the  Lord  would  call  home  his  banished  ones ;  and  this  the 
accusers  construed,  in  good  faith,  to  mean  the  Pretender.  The 
words  would  have  had  that  meaning  from  the  mouth  of  a  Jacobite: 
but  Charles  Wesley,  with  perfect  sincerity,  disclaimed  any  such 
intention.  "I  had  no  thought,"  he  said,  "  of  praying  for  the 
Pretender,  but  for  those  who  confess  themselves  strangers  and 
pilgrims  upon  earth, — who  seek  a  country,  knowing  this  is  not 
their  home.  You,  Sir,"  he  added,  addressing  himself  to  a 
clergyman  upon  the  bench :  "  you,  Sir,  know  that  the  Scrip- 
tures speak  of  us  as  captive  exiles,  who  are  absent  from  the 
Lord  while  present  in  the  body.  We  are  not  at  home  till  we  are 
in  heaven."  *  The  magistrates  were  men  of  sense :  they  per- 
ceived that  he  explained  himself  clearly — that  his  declarations 
were  frank  and  unequivocal,  and  they  avowed  themselves  per- 
fectly satisfied. 

These  aspersions  aggravated  the  odium  under  which  the 
Methodists  were  now  labouring.  "  Every  Sunday,"  says 
Charles  Wesley,  "damnation  is  denounced  against  all  who 
hear  us ;  for  we  are  Papists,  Jesuits,  seducers,  and  bringers  in 
of  the  Pretender.  The  clergy  murmur  aloud  at  the  number  of 
communicants,  and  threaten  to  repel  them."  He  was  him- 
self repelled  at  Bristol,  with  circumstances  of  indecent 
violence.  In  many  places  they  were  exposed  to  the  insults  of 
the  rude  mob,  who  had  not  yet  forgotten  the  art  of  disturbing 
conventicles,  nor  entirely  lost  the  relish  of  those  delights  which 
they  enjoyed,  when  terrifying  the  women  or  children  whom 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  69 

they  found  in  those  assemblies.  It,  therefore,  became  neces- 
sary for  the  Methodists,  either  to  endure  all  the  injuries  which 
the  non-conformists  suffered,  when  they  were  considered  as  out- 
laws, or  to  contradict  their  solemn  professions  of  indissoluble 
union  with  the  Established  Church,  by.  classing  themselves 
with  Dissenters,  taking  refuge  under  the  Toleration  Act,  regis- 
tering their  places  of  worship,  and  licensing  their  preachers, 
as  that  Act  required.  They  were  not  so  m  love  either  with 
persecution  or  the  Church  of  England,  as  to  hesitate  long 
between  the  unequal  alternatives ;  but  instantly  became  Dis- 
senters in  the  eye  of  the  law,  in  order  to  become  Christians 
Jiccording  to  the  dictates  of  conscience. 

It  was,  indeed,  a  curious  phenomenon  to  behold  a  whole 
host  of  persons,  who  rejected  the  name  of  Dissenters  as  an  un- 
founded calumny,  who  professed  themselves  the  truest  sons  of 
the  Church ;  attached  to  her  doctrines,  ceremonies,  and  hier- 
archy ;  many  of  whom  retained,  even  in  their  places  of  meeting, 
her  Liturgy  and  vestments,  and  who  still  communicated  at 
her  altars ;  yet  resorting  for  protection  to  an  Act  passed  "  to 
exempt  persons  dissenting  from  the  Church  of  England  from 
certjiin  pains  and  penalties."  Had  they  professed  to  dissent, 
it  would  have  been  a  question  whether  the  Toleration  Act  could 
have  afforded  them  legal  protection  ;  for  neither  this,  nor  any 
other  law,  could  be  intended  to  provide  for  all  possible  futurity, 
and  to  gather  under  its  wing  every  sect,  of  whatever  principles 
and  practices,  which  might  arise  in  the  revolution  of  ages. 
But  when  the  Methodists  declared  they  were  not  Dissenters, 
how  could  they  claim  the  advantages  of  an  Act  made  to  protect 
l>ersons  dissenting  from  the  Church  of  England  from  the  penal- 
ties of  certain  laws  ? 

The  politic  conduct  of  the  government,  in  choosing  rather  to 
£rive  a  large  and  liberal  interpretation  to  the  Toleration  Act, 
than  to  run  the  hazard  of  introducing  another,  was  a  grand  step 
in  the  progress  of  religious  liberty ;  for  it  converted  this  law  into 
a  much  more  extensive  and  mighty  blessing  than  it  was  ever 
designed  to  be. 

As  the  Methodists  of  every  class — those  who  still  remained 
within  the  walls  of  the  establishment ;  those  who,  like  White- 
field  retained  her  doctrines,  but  broke  loose  from  her  restraints, 
and  those  who,  with  Mr.  Wesley  adopted  the  Arminian  creed — 
all  formed  a  body  as  active  as  they  were  new ;  they  put  the 
practical  liberality  of  the  government  and  the  nation  to  a  severe 
test.  The  Methodists  came  forth  as  a  foreign  army,  they 
traversed  the  kingdom  through  all  its  extent;  professing  to 
belong  to  the  Establishment,  they  entered  into  its  precincts^ 


70  THI  LITE  .CO)  TISfZS  OF 

v>a<dit  their  conrertf  in  its  rerr  bo«onu  and  thus  roused 
attmtion,  jealousr.  simI  ra^?  by  the  noreltr,  neaniess.  and 
afsouialous  Angularity  of  their  attack.  The  practice  of  field- 
preaching,  whfch  Mr.  Whitefield,  their  most  intrepid  champion, 
intnxluced,  was  a  measure  daring  as  it  was  unprecedented. 
When  the  goremment  heard  that  he  drew  out  of  London  the 
alino«t  incredible  number  of  thirty  thousand  persons  to  hear 
him  preach  on  Kennington  Common — when  be  r^ulariy  col- 
leeted  numbers,  not  much  inferior,  in  Moorfields^when  Mr. 
Wesley  imitated  the  bold  measure,  and  thus  rendered  it  a 
Methodist  fashion  to  stand  upon  Tower-hill — in  the  streets  of 
Bristol — amidst  the  colliers  at  Kingswood  or  Newcastle — among 
the  miners  of  Cornwall,  or  whererer  else  immense  crowds  could 
lye  c/illected — would  it  hare  been  surprising  if  the  usual  jealousv 
rif  goremments  had  been  displayed  by  the  new  dynasty,  whicb 
Itad  just  begun  to  sit  firm  on  the  British  throne  ?*  W^t  then 
must  hare  been  the  wisdom  of  the  prince,  and  the  conscious 
stfength  and  dignity  of  the  government,  that,  in  such  untried  and 
critical  circumstancus,  laissez  nous  fairt  prevailed  without  limi- 
tation, and  the  rising  sect  not  only  gave  neither  alarm  nor  oflTence 
to  the  civil  powers,  but  was  even  defended  by  the  sword  and  the 
mace  ?  Whenever  the  mobs  were  excited  to  their  own  depraved 
passion,  or  by  the  insidious  arts  of  bigoted  gentrN-  or  clergy,  to 
disturb  the  worship  of  the  Methodists,  though  inferior  magis- 
trates might  refuse  redress,  the  superior  courts  were  a  sure  refuge, 
where,  not  scanty  justice,  but  liberal  countenance  was  afforded 
Uy  the  new  species  of  Dissenters.  At  Bristol  the  magistrates 
instantly  quelled  the  persecuting  spirit  of  the  populace,  and 
placed  the  Methodists  in  perfect  peace  and  security.  And  such 
wjis  the  effect  of  the  timely  and  determined  interposition  of  the 
civil  power,  that  the  Methodists  were  never  again  disturbed  by 
the  rabble  in  that  city.  If  the  London  mobs  were  more  violent, 
the  persecuted  people  received  the  satisfaction  of  being  in- 
formed, from  high  authority,  before  they  made  application  for 
redress,  that  they  had  no  need  to  suffer  the  insults  and  injuries 
which  they  experienced,  since  the  justices  of  the  peace  had 
received  particular  orders  from  the  government  to  anord  them 
full  protection.  The  House  of  Hanover,  being  assured  of  the 
affections  of  the  Dissenters,  regarded  them  as  among  the 
firmest  supporters  of  the  throne :  it  is,  therefore,  not  improbable, 
that  this  new  accession  to  their  numbers  was  far  from  being 
disagreeable  to  the  court,  which  gladly  extended  to  the  Metho- 
dists the  protection  originally  designed  for  other  denominations. 
The  storm  that  threatened  to  blast  every  prospect  of  useful- 
ness toon  blqw  over,  and  left  Lady  Huntingdon  to  exchange 


SELINA,   COUNTESS   OF   HUNTINGDON.  71 

the  cry  of  danger — the  prayer  of  faith — for  the  song  of  praise, 
and  this  grateml  inquiry  "  what  shall  I  render  to  the  Lord  for 
all  his  benefits  ?"  The  rebellion  called  forth  all  her  ardour  in 
the  cause  of  liberty,  both  civil  and  religious  ;  and  the  sermons 
and  exhortations  of  the  great  leaders  of  the  Methodist  cause 
spoke  the  lively  interest  which  they  felt  in  the  success  of  the 
contest  Nor  were  the  Evangelical  Dissenters  less  zealous  or 
less  agitated  with  solicitude  for  the  safety  of  the  tolerant  throne 
of  Brunswick.  Dr.  Doddridge  exerted  himself  with  great  zeal, 
and  at  considerable  expefise,  in  a  cause  which  appeared  to  him 
to  affect  the  Christian  as  deeply  as  tlie  patriot.  His  biographer 
says : — 

«« When  a  regiment  was  raising  in  Northamptonshire,  (o  be  ander 
the  command  of  the  Earl  of  Halifax,  he  wrote  many  letters  to  his  friends 
in  that  county  and  neighbourhood  to  further  the  design.  He  went 
among  his  own  people  to  encourage  them  to  enlist,  and  had  the  plea- 
sure to  6n(l  many  of  them  engaging  cheerfully  in  the  cause.  He  drew 
up,  and  printed  at  his  own  expense,  a  friendly  letter  to  the  private 
soldiers  of  a  regiment  of  foot,  which  was  one  of  those  engaged  in  the 
glorious  battle  of  Culloden.*' 

When  his  friend  Colonel  Grardiner  fell  in  the  struggle  between 
the  House  of  Hanover  and  the  family  of  Stuart,  Dr.  Doddrid^ 
honoured  him  as  one  who  had  poured  out  his  blood  for  the 
sacred  as  well  as  civil  liberties  of  Britain.  It  was  his  high  sense 
of  the  importance  of  the  contest  to  the  religious  interests  of  the 
kingdom,  which  inspired  the  biographer  with  the  unusual  elo- 
quence that  glows  in  his  memoirs  of  the  Colonel.  The  Doctor 
preached  an  eloquent  and  animated  discourse  on  the  occasion 
of  his  death,  which  was  afterwards  published,  one  hundred  copies 
of  which  he  sent  to  Lady  Huntmgdon  for  distribution.  Her 
Ladyship's  opinion  of  this  sermon  is  given  in  a  letter  to  Mr. 
Wesley,  in  which  she  likewise  expresses  her  lamentations  on  the 
death  of  the  Colonel : — 

"Jan.  15, 1746. 

'-  My  much  esteemed  Friend, — I  defcred  acknowledging  your  last 
kind  favour  till  I  could  send  you  the  excellent  sermon  of  my  good- 
friend,  Dr.  Doddridce,  upon  the  lamented  death  of  that  eminent  Chris- 
tian and  gallant  soldier,  Colonel  Gardiner.  His  death  is  a  heavy  afflic- 
tion to  good  Lady  Frances,  as  well  as  to  all  his  numeroos  faouly  and 
acquaintances.  But  he  is  gone  to  the  great  Captain  of  oar  salvation 
to  see  him  as  he  is:  to  praise  him  who  covered  his  head  in  the  dav  of 
battle ;  and  has  taken  him  to  himself  to  sing  the  wonders  of  that  lovo 
which  hath  redeemed  him  from  the  earth,  and  made  him  mqpt  to  be  a 
partalcer  of  the  inheritance  of  the  saints  in  liffht. 

*^  Eminently  successful  in  illuminating  muhitudos  in  various  parts  of 
the  eountiy^  with  the  knowledge  of  the  tmth  w  it  is  in  Jesns,  tne  soul 


72  THE   LIFE   AKD  TIMES  OF 

of  tliis  excellent  minister  of  Cbrist  is  erer  bnrning  for  a  more  extensiTe 
adrancement  of  religion,  where  it  is  not  yet  kno^^n,  or  its  blessed  effects 
felt  by  the  people.  A  hi^b  degree  of  praise  is  dae  to  tbis  deroted 
man  for  his  exertions  in  calling  sinners  to  repentance,  and  stirring  up 
the  professors  of  religion  to  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel.  He  would  do 
honour  to  any  age  of  the  Church,  and  his  honesty  and  zeal  entide  him 
to  unqualified  praise. 

^*  If  I  mistake  not,  you  will  be  much  delighted  with  the  cncigy  of 
expression,  and  the  evangelical  strain  which  runs  through  his  discourse. 
Though  it  may  be  deficient  in  vigour,  it  is  rich  in  the  display  of  Grospcl 
truth.  No  man  can  be  more  remote  from  party  spirit,  or  exhibit  more 
of  that  love  which  embraces  all  who  love  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  of  every 
name  and  sect,  than  the  Doctor  does  in  all  liis  writings.  This  I  record 
to  his  honour,  while  there  are  but  too  many  of  the  dissentins  denomi- 
nation very  differently  minded,  who  are  cold,  and  stand  sdoof  from 
Christians,  and  fellow-heirs  of  the  same  inheritance,  because  they 
gather  not  with  them. 

"  Amidst  abounding  opposition  much  good  still  continues  to  be  done, 
and  many  poor  souls  are  returning  to  the  fold  of  the  great  Shepberd. 
The  hand  of  a  King  is  amongst  us :  many  hard-hearted  rebels  have 
been  subdued  by  l£e  resistless  power  of  the  Word :  many  have  fled 
for  refuge  to  the  hope  set  before  them  :  and  very  many  are  asking  the 
way  to  Zion.  May  the  great  Shepherd  and  Bishop  of  our  souls  give 
us  more  abundant  increase  !  The  fruits  of  your  ministry  yet  flourish  : 
and  we  long  for  your  coming  once  more  amongst  us.  May  your  minis- 
try be  attended  and  followed  by  the  blessing  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and 
many  be  added  by  your  means  to  the  Church  of  such  as  shall  be  saved. 
'*I  have  lately  heard  from  dear  Mr.  Whitefield.  He  is  making  full 
proof  of  his  ministry  in  America.  Mr.  Jones  has  been  with  me  for 
fiome  weeks ;  and  has  been  very  acceptable  and  useful  to  many.  I 
have  just  seen  Mr.  West's  'Observations  on  the  History  and  Evidences 
of  Christ's  Resurrection,'  but  have  not  yet  perused  it  Dr.  Doddridge 
has  a  high  opinion  of  i^  ond  thinks  it  calculated  for  great  and  exten- 
sive usefulness  amongst  infidels. 

*'  And  now  my  good  friend,  farewell !  I  heartily  commend  you  to 
the  care  and  guidance  of  my  adorable  Master — Him  on  whom  I  hang 
the  weight  of  my  eternal  interests — and  through  whose  precious  blood 
I  hope  to  be  cleansed  from  oil  my  vileness,  my  wortblessness,  and 
misery,  and  mode  a  partaker  of  the  blessing  of  his  everlasting  covenant. 

*'  I  am,  my  worthy  and  esteemed  friend,  your  very  obliged, 

"  S.  Huntingdon.'* 

In  the  month  of  April,  Lady  Huntingdon  was  attacked  by  a 
»overe  illness,  and  her  friends  became  seriously  alarmed ;  but,  by 
the  blessing  of  God  on  the  means  used  by  her  medical  advisers, 
she  was  restored  to  many  years  of  labour  and  usefulness.  To 
promote  the  spread  of  the  religion  of  Christ  was  ever  the  most 
prominent  object  of  her  life,  and  she  made  personal  case  and 
convenience  entirely  subservient  to  it.     Notwithstanding  her 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  73 

debility  at  this  time,  she  wrote  to  Dr.  Doddrid^  and  Mr.  Charles 
Wfesley,  asking  them  to  recommend  her  a  pious  Clergyman  to 
supply  the  church  at  Mark  field,  the  living  of  which  she  had  given 
to  the  Rev.  George  Baddelley,  D.D.,  then  domestic  chaplain 
at  Donnington  Park. 

**June,  1746. 

"  My  worthy  Friend, — This  very  day,  after  my  letter  to  you,  I  was 
taken  ill  of  a  fever,  and  am  now  far  from  a  state  of  perfect  recovery, 
and  I  am  sure  I  shall  have  your  prayers,  that  all  those  adorahle  in- 
stances of  God's  great  mercy  to  me  may  be  answered  according  to  his 
kind  intentions  towards  me. 

'^Weak  as  I  am,  a  circumstance  I  am  much  interested  about  makes 
me  forget  all  I  feel  at  present :  a  young  gentleman,  to  whom  I  have 
just  given  the  Rectory  of  Markfield,  in  Leicestershire,  and  who  serves 
in  my  family  as  my  chaplain,  is  at  present  in  great  want  of  a  curate  to 
supply  that  place  in  his  absence.  His  situation  -with  me  gives  him  an 
cnti-ance  into  four  churches  :  and,  could  we  get  a  Gospel  curate,  very 
great  good  would  be  done.  I  hope  he  has  here  won  the  hearts  of 
many  people,  and  a  litdc  meeting  in  my  house  is  begun,  and  though 
with  mucn  bitterness  to  me,  in  spite  of  all  opposition,  it  increases. 
Should  Mr.  Baddelley  leave  me  to  fix  in  his  living,  all  this  prospect 
would  be  at  an  end :  but  could  we  get  a  faithful  minister  for  his  assist- 
ance, the  having  two  who  would  then  preach  the  Gospel  might  be 
instrumental  to  unspeakable  good.  Such  a  person,  who  is  properly 
qualified,  he  has  not  yet  been  able  to  meet  with :  he  should  be  not 
only  a  good  Christian,  but  one  who  is  a  sensible  man,  who  can  act 
prudently,  and  who,  in  Mr.  Baddelley*s  absence,  would  be  proper  to 
perform  his  duty  in  my  family. 

^^  So  surrounded  am  I  by  eyes  that  long  to  find  fault  with  all  I  do, 
that  it  makes  me  cautious  to  give  no  offence,  either  to  Jew,  Gentile,  or 
the  Church  of  God  ;  but  to  serve  oilmen  to  their  good  edification,  and 
to  labour  with  the  remains  of  life  to  advance  our  Lord  and  Saviour's 
kingdom  upon  earth.  Do,  my  friend,  try  to  look  out  for  me  for  this 
purpose ;  and  if  you  know,  or  can  hear  of  any  man  so  qualified,  let 
me  Know  from  you.  Could  I  explain  the  consequences  of  this  matter 
with  sufl^cient  strength,  I  am  sure  it  would  raise  emotion  in  so  warm 
and  earnest  a  heart  as  yours,  for  your  most  active  trial.  May  heaven 
assist  you,  and  live  assured  that,  with  great  sincerity  and  pure  friend- 
ship, I  am,  my  worthy  friend,  your  very  obhged, 

"S.  HuNTINdDON." 

The  next  letter  is  dated  June  I89  1746.  It  is  addressed  to 
Mr.  Wesley,  and  repeats  the  early  part  of  the  preceding : — 

"  I  have  written  to  my  worthy  friend.  Dr.  Doddridge,  to  assist  in 
obtaining  a  pious,  sensible  man,  one  whose  whole  soul  is  alive  to  God 
and  the  concerns  of  eternity,  and  I  have  to  solicit  your  assistance,  my 
good  friend,  in  aiding  me  in  this  matter.  Amongst  your  very  numer- 
ous connections,  you  may  hear  of  some  one  suited  to  the  situation, 
which  is  of  great  miportance,  as  he  \^'ill  have  four  churches  open  to  him, 


74  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

idiere  the  light  of  dmne  truth  may  be  widely  extended  amongst  a 
people  hungering  and  thirsting  after  the  bread  of  life. 

^  Do  aid  me  in  this  business  with  ^our  willing  scnricea,  yonr  prayers, 
and  your  advice.  I  am  but  a  weak  instrument,  and  need  the  sapport- 
ing  care  of  my  great  Advocate  every  minute  of  my  existence.  Though 
I  am  hardly  able  to  hold  my  pen,  yet  I  am  willing,  thanks  be  to  God, 
to  be  employed  in  any  way  that  may  conduce  to  the  good  of  others. 
Pray  for  me,  my  good  friend,  that  if  it  be  the  will  of  God  and  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  I  may  be  strengthened  for  the  work  which  b  before  me, 
and  that  which  he  has  appointed  for  me  on  earth.  I  feel  the  flame 
still  burning  within  me — the  ardent  longing  to  save  sinners  from  the 
error  of  their  vniys.  0,  how  does  the  zeal  of  others  reprove  me !  0, 
that  my  poor  cold  heart  could  catch  a  spark  from  others,  and  be  as  a 
flame  of  nre  in  the  Redcemei^s  service  I  Some  few  instances  of  suc- 
cess, which  God,  in  the  riches  of  his  mercy,  has  lately  favoured  me  with, 
have  greatly  comforted  me  during  mv  season  of  afiliction  ;  and  I  have 
felt  the  presence  of  God  in  my  soul  in  a  very  remarkable  manner, 
prrticularly  when  I  have  prayed  for  the  advancement  of  his  kingdom 
amongst  men  in  the  world.  This  revives  me,  and  if  God  prolongs  my 
poor  unprofl table  life,  I  trust  it  will  ever  be  engaged  in  one  continued 
series  of  zealous  active  services  for  him,  and  the  good  of  precious  im- 
mortal souls. 

^  Adieu,  my  most  worthy  friend.  Let  me  hear  from  you  soon,  and 
give  me  some  tidings  to  rejoice  my  heart.     Your  most  faithful  ^friend, 

"  S.  Huntingdon." 


CHAPTER  VI. 

DsATH  OF  THE  Eabl  OF  HUNTINGDON — Hls  Lordship's  Epitaph--.Letter  from 
Sir  John  Thorold — Lady  Huntingdon's  Piety— Letter  to  Dr.  Doddridge — 

lady  Kilmorey Duchess  of  Somerset— Welsh  Preachers — Lady  Frances 

Hastings — Mrs.    Edwin — Lady   Huntingdon's  adherence  to  the  Church  of 
England—Letter  from  Dr.  Watts  to  Dr.*  Doddridge. 

Afflictions  seldom  come  alone.  The  loss  of  Lady  Hunting- 
don*B  children  was  soon  followed  bv  the  decease  of  the  Earl,  who 
departed  this  life,  on  the  l'3th  of  October,  1746,  at  his  house 
in  Downinff-street,  Westminster,  in  the  fiftieth  year  of  his  age. 
His  Lordship  (who  it  was  remarkable  had  hardly  ever  dreamt  in 
his  life  before)  dreamed,  one  night,  that  death,  in  the  semblance 
of  a  skeleton,  appeared  at  the  bed's  foot,  and,  after  standing  a 
while,  untucked  the  bed-clothes  at  the  bottom,  and  crept  up 
to  the  top  of  the  bed  (under  the  clothes)  and  lay  between  hhn 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  75 

and  his  lady.  His  Lordship  told  his  dream,  in  the  morning  to 
the  Countess,  who  affected  to  make  light  of  it ;  but  the  Earl 
died  of  a  fit  of  apoplexy,  in  about  a  fortnight  after.  This  cir- 
cumstance was  narrated  bv  her  Ladyship  to  Mr.  Toplady,  at 
Romford,  in  Essex,  April  12,  1776,  and  was  printed  in  his 
posthumous  works.* 

The  death  of  Lord  Huntingdon  formed  a  new  era  in  the  life 
of  his  devoted  Countess.  The  loss  of  children,  and  the  decease 
of  her  Lord,  gave  such  a  blow  to  the  elasticity  of  her  mind,  as 
a  loss  like  this  at  her  time  of  life  was  calculated  to  inflict.  She 
had  a  fine  bust  of  herself  placed  upon  the  tomb  of  her  deceased 
husband ;  and  the  widowed  bosom,  in  which  his  memory  was 
enshrined,  remained  as  cold  to  earthly  passion  as  the  insensible 
marble  amidst  the  symbols  of  death. 

*  The  epitaph,  referred  to  at  page  9,  is  as  follows  ?.. 
"  Here  lie  the  remains  of  the  Right  Honourable  Tbeephilut,  Earl  of  Hun. 
tingdon,  Lord  Hastings,  Hungcrford,  Botreaux,  Moels,  Newmark,  and  Molina ; 
if  his  death  deserved  respect,  his  life  deserved  it  more,  tf  he  delved  his  title 
from  a  long  roll  of  illustrious  ancestors,  he  reflected  back  on  them  superior 
honours*  He  ennobled  nobility  bv  virtue.  He  was  of  the  first  rank  in  both ; 
good  in  every  relation  of  natural  duty  and  social  life.  The  learning  he  acquired 
at  school  he  improved  at  Oxford,  under  the  care  of  that  excellent  person,  the 
late  Bishop  of  Gloucester.*  Acquainted  by  his  studies  with  the  ehaivcten 
of  past  ages,  he  acquired  by  his  travels  a  knowledge  of  the  men  and  manners 
of  his  own  :  be  visited  France,  Ital^,  and  even  Spain.  After  these  excursions 
into  other  countries,  he  settled  in  his  own.  His  own  was  dear  to  him.  No 
man  had  juster  notions  of  the  true  constitution  of  her  government  i  no  man 
had  a  more  comprehensive  view  of  her  real  interests,  domestic  and  foreign. 
Capable  of  excelling  in  every  form  of  public  life,  he  chose  to  appear  in  none. 
His  mind  fraught  with  knowledge,  his  heart  elevated  with  sentiments  of  mi- 
affected  iiatriotism,  he  looked  down  from  higher  ground  on  the  low  level  of  a 
futile  and  corrupt  generation.  Despairing  to  do  national  good,  he  mingled  as 
little  as  his  rank  permitted  in  national  aiiairs.  Home  is  the  refus^e  of  a  wise 
man's  life ;  home  was  the  refuge  of  his.  By  his  marriage  with  the  Lndy  Selina 
Shirley,  second  daughter  and  one  of  the  co-heirs  of  Washington,  Earl  Pentrat 
he  secured  to  himself  in  tetreat  a  scene  of  happiness  he  could  not  have  found 
in  the  world ;  the  uninterrupted  joys  of  cOnjueal  love,  the  never-fiulinff  com- 
forts of  cordial  friendship.  Every  care  was  softened,  every  satisftiction  height- 
ened, every  hour  passed  smoothly  awav,  in  the  company  of  one  who  enjoyed  a 
perpetual  serenity  of  soul,  that  none  but  those  can  feel  in  this  life^  who  are 
prepared  for  greater  bliss  in  the  next  By  her  this  monument  is  erected  to 
record  the  virtues  of  the  deceased,  and  the  grief  of  the  living.  He  was  bom 
November  12,  1696,  and  married  the  said  Lady,  June  3, 172&  By  her  he  had 
four  sons  and  three  daughters,  Francis,t  the  present  Earl,  bom  March  1S»  1729; 
George,  bom  March  29,  1740,  who  died  of  the  small-pox,  sffed  fourteen ;  Per- 
dinando,  born  January  23,  1732,  who  also  died  of  the  smaU-pox,  aged  eleren ; 
£li2abeth4  the  eldest  daughter,  bom  March  28, 1731 1  Selina,  bore  June  1195, 
who  died  an  in£snt;  Selina,  the  third  daughter,  bom  December  3«  1737.  The 
said  Earl  died  of  a  fit  of  apoplexy,  October  IS,  1746,  in  the  fiftieth  year  of  his 
age." 

*  Dr.  Martin  Benson,  who  had  ordained  Mr.  Whitefield. 

f  Ttoth  and  last  Earl  of  that  line. 

t  Afterwards  Countess  of  Moiia. 


^^  THE  LITE  ASTD  TDIES  OF 

Dorii^  Lord  Huotiii^doD's  Kfe,  bcr  LadTship's  means  of 
ofetuloetf  mere  necessanlj  drcmnscribed.  Vet  all  that  she 
pofiefied  was  expended  in  promoting  the  extension  of  the  Re- 
da^ner^s  kii^dom,  or  in  relierin^  the  temporal  distress  of  the 
iod^geot*  Lnlike  the  summer  bird,  which  flies  on  the  fiist 
approach  of  the  wiotei^s  storm,  the  chQly  blasts  of  adver^itv  had 
peculiar  attractions  for  her  benevolent  heart.  The  beautiliil 
de«cripti<A  of  an  amiable  writer  was  not  more  appUcable  to  his 
daeeaiied  friend,  than  to  this  illustrious  personage :  ^  She  was 
wen  wherever  disappointment  and  losses  had  left  nothing  but 
the  attraction  of  mii>er}'.  She  and  the  selfish  crew  were  sure 
to  meet  verj'  near  the  door — they  leaving  their  friends,  when 
tbejr  found  nothing  more  was  to  be  enjoyed,  and  she  hastening 
tliitber,  za  MK>n  as  she  found  something  was  necessary  to  be 
done.** 

Lady  Huntingdon  was  left  a  widow  in  the  thirty-ninth  year  of 
her  age,  with  the  entire  management  of  her  children,  and  their 
fortuneii,  which  she  carefully  attended  to,  and  improved  with 
ttie  greatest  fidelity.  Her  family  aflairs  necessarily  occupied 
her  attention  during  Lady  Huntingdon's  life ;  but  now,  become 
her  own  mistress  by  the  demise  of  his  Lordship,  she  resolved 
to  derote  herself  wholly  to  the  service  of  Christ,  and  to  the 
ifouls  redeemed  by  his  blood. 

Few  characters  have  been  more  erroneously  estimated  by  the 
world  than  that  of  Lady  Huntingdon.  She  was,  in  fact,  neither 
the  gloomy  fanatic,  the  weak  visionary,  nor  the  abstracted  de- 
votee whicn  different  parties  have  delighted  to  paint  her. 

The  circumstance  of  her  having  forbidden  the  publication  of 
her  papers,  and  her  retired  mode  of  life,  for  even  her  charities 
were  princi|)ally  distributed  through  the  medium  of  her  chap- 
lains^ wore  the  causes  that  bafiled  the  curiosity  of  those  who 
felt  desirous  of  discovering  the  motives  which  could  tempt  a 
woman  to  resign  the  allurements  of  fashion,  frivolity,  and  nigh 
Mtation,  and  to  devote  upwards  of  a  hundred  thousand  pounds 
during  her  life  for  the  extension  of  peculiar  religious  opinions ; 
and  tnat  too  without  any  view  towards  the  personal  distinction 
which  has  been  too  often  a  leading  inducement  with  the  founders 
of  now  sects. 

Instead  of  giving  way  to  unavailing  grief  under  this  afilicting 
bereavement,  or  sunering  her  mind  to  prey  upon  itself  in  seclu- 
sion, Ladv  Huntingdon  endeavoured  to  find  comfort  in  afflic- 
tion by  tnoso  unremitting  exertions  for  the  extension  of  divine 
tnitli  which  chaructorised  every  part  of  her  life.  The  first  six 
months  of  her  widowhood  were  spent  at  Donnington  Park, 
which  she  continued  to  occupy  till  the  young  Earl  of  Hunting- 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  tiUKtINGDON.  1*7 

don  became  of  age.  The  members  of  the  little  societies  in  her 
neighbourhood  were  perpetually  in  her  thoughts,  and  her  heart 
was  penetrated  with  the  most  lively  concern  for  their  welfare. 
Although  her  endeavours  during  this  season  of  affliction  were 
chiefly  exercised  for  their  spiritual  benefit,  yet  was  her  heart 
enlarged  also  toward  all  the  children  of  God,  by  whatever 
name  they  were  distinguished,  or  wherever  the  bounds  of  their 
habitation  were  fixed. 

The  consolations  of  friendship  were  highly  valued  by  the 
Countess.  To  her  most  excellent  friend.  Sir  John  Thorold, 
she  expresses  herself  deeply  indebted,  for  the  paternal  interest 
which  he  took  in  her  concerns,  and  his  unremitting  exertions 
for  the  improvement  of  her  children's  fortunes.  Sir  John  was 
a  man  of  piety,  and  the  early  and  steady  friend  of  her  deceased 
Lord.* 

From  this  period  Lady  Huntingdon's  devotion  to  Christ  was 

*  He  was  one  of  the  first  members  of  the  Methodist  Society  in  Fetter-hme, 
and,  with  Sir  John  Phillips,  of  Picton  Casde,  also  member  of  the  same 
Society,  very  useful  in  aiding  and  encouraging  the  labours  of  Mr.  Whitefield 
and  the  Wesleys.  He  was  a  correspondent  of  the  celebrated  Griffith  Jones, 
whom  he  assisted  in  the  establishment  of  his  Welsh  schools,  and  of  Dr.  Dod- 
dridge, and  a  letter  from  him  to  Mr.  Wesley  appears  in  an  early  volume  of  the 
'*  Methodist  Magazine.**  His  death,  which  occurred  in  1748  was  a  great  loss  to 
the  early  Methodists.  He  was  twice  married,  and  left  five  children.  His  family 
was  one  of  the  oldest  in  Lincolnshire,  and  had  given  **  reeves**  to  that  '*  shire'* 
prior  to  the  conquest.  By  his  mother  he  was  related  to  Sanderson,  Bishop  of 
Lincoln,  whose  eldest  son  married  Lady  Frances  Montagu,  daughter  of  the  Earl 
of  Manchester.  We  will  conclude  this  long  note  with  an  extract  from  Sir 
John's  letter  of  condolence  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  dated  "  St  James's  Place,  14tJi 
Nov.  1746,**  and  signed  your  affectionate  and  most  faithful  humble  servmtt 
John  Thorold. 

*'  My  fellow-sharer  in  the  cup  of  sorrow — the  painful  task  has  been  imposed 
upon  us,  of  consigning  the  remains  of  your  tenderly  affectionate  husband  and 
my  most  faithful  mend,  to  the  bosom  of  our  mother  earth,  *  where  the  wicked 
cease  to  trouble,  and  where  the  wearv  are  for  ever  at  rest  :*  You  have  been  called 
upon,  by  this  sad  stroke,  to  entomb  in  the  cold  and  silent  grave,  one  who  has 
long  been  deeply  entombed  in  your  warm  affectionate  heart :  but  the  words  of  the 
great  apostle,  thanks  be  unto  God,  which  giveth  us  the  victory  through  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  I  will  help  to  soothe  your  sorrows,  and  in  the  midst  of  your  mourn- 
ing and  distress,  assist  in  drving  up  your  tears.  I  sympathise  with  yoii,  but 
sorrow  not  as  one  without  hope.  There  is  hope  concerning  our  dear  friend : 
I  believe  it  is  well  with  him.  Your  loss  must  be  borne — he  cannot  come  back 
to  vou.  The  event  calls  you  to  self-examination.  May  every  divine  support 
and  comfort  be  abundantly  administered  to  the  disconsolate  widow  1  and  may 
everv  blessing  rest  upon  your  young  and  interesting  ficunily.^  Look  to  the 
Rock  of  Hope — the  fountain  head  of  power — that  you  may  derive  supplies  of 
vigour  to  enable  you  to  prosecute  the  work  which  God  hath  assuredly  marked 
out  for  upon  the  earth.  The  Captain  of  your  salvation  is  Jesus  Christ, 
who  has  promised  you  strength  for  every  time  of  need.  Awrake  1  look  up  1 
and  endure  hardness  as  a  good  soldier  of  Jesus  Christ ;  and  may  you  be  made 
truly  invincible  in  the  cause  of  God  and  truth,  only  laying;  down  your  weapons, 
when  your  dust  shall  return  into  the  dust,  and  your  spirit  unto  the  God  that 
gave  it  r» 


7]6  THB  ttFB  ANP  TIMES  OF 

sincere  and  unreserved.  Whatever  she  had  formerly  admired 
and  pursued,  she  now  voluntarily  laid  at  the  feet  of  her  Lord  : 
and  dedicated  her  time,  her  studies,  her  acquisitions,  and  her 
substance,  to  the  service  of  God,  and  the  furtherance  of  his 
cause  in  the  world;  desiring  at  once  to  present  him  with  her 
whole  being,  as  a  living  sacrifice,  expressive  of  her  entire  de- 
votion. She  had  no  interest  to  serve,  no  inclination  to  gratify, 
nor  any  connection  to  maintain,  but  such  as  was  necessary  to 
prove  the  sincerity  of  her  zeal,  or  the  fervour  of  her  love. 
Wherever  she  appeared,  she  breathed  the  spirit  of  devotion, 
and  wherever  she  was  familiarly  known,  the  purity,  the  fervour, 
the  resolution,  and  the  constancy  of  that  devotion  were  uni- 
versally apparent  Possessed  of  that  faith  which  ^^  overcometh 
the  world,''  she  beheld  it  with  the  feelings  of  her  tempted 
Master ;  anxious  for  its  good,  but  despisincr  its  yoke ;  prepared 
to  labour  in  its  service,  but  resolute  to  reject  its  rewards ;  deaf 
to  its  promises,  blind  to  its  prospects,  and  dead  to  its  enjoy- 
ments. 

Wherever  she  was  called  by  the  providence  of  God,  she  was 
acknowledged  as  a  ^^  burning  and  shining  light"  The  common 
lights  of  Christians  were  eclipsed  before  her;  and  even  her 
spiritual  friends  could  never  stand  in  her  presence,  without 
being  overwhelmed  with  a  consciousness  of  their  own  inferiority 
and  unprofitableness.  Amongst  innumerable  instances  which 
might  be  adduced,  I  shall  merely  add  the  testimony  of  the  late 
excellent  Mr.  Toplady,  who  considered  her  Ladyship  "the 
most  precious  saint  of  God  he  ever  knew."  The  following 
letters  to  Dr.  Doddridge,  written  at  this  period,  prove  the  love 
and  veneration  which  he  had  for  a  character  of  such  inestimable 
worth ;  and  while  they  exhibit  her  extraordinary  zeal  for  the 
glory  of  God,  which  blazed  forth  with  such  undiminished 
fervour  through  every  stage  of  her  existence,  and  continued 
with  unabated  vigour  till  removed  to  her  eternal  rest,  will 
cause  every  reader  to  blush  at  his  own  ingratitude  and  luke- 
warmness. 

"February  23,  1747. 

**  My  very  worthy  and  much-esteomed  Friend, — I  would  not  lose 
the  opportunity  of  conveying  my  enquiries  after  you,  and  most  thank- 
fully acknowledging  your  letters,  for  one  of  which,  I  find,  I  am  obliged 
to  a  mistake. 

^  Aa  there  is  nothing  you  eidier  write  or  do  that  I  am  not  interested 
for,  you  must  foigive  my  reminding  you  that  so  faithful  a  minister  of 
the  glorious  Gbspel  not  only  merits  our  highest  regards,  but  our  many 
blettings  also.  1  liope  vou  will  comfort  mc  by  all  the  accounts  you 
can  gaSer  of  the  flourishing  and  spreading  of  the  glad  tidings.    0  ! 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  79 

how  do  I  lament  tbo  weakness  of  my  hands,  the  feebleness  of  my 
knees,  and  coolness  of  my  heart.  I  want  it  on  fire  always^  not  for 
self-delight,  but  to  spread  the  Gospel  from  pole  to  pole.  Pray  for 
me,  my  very  excellent  friend,  and  cause  others  to  do  so.  I  dread  slack 
hands  in  the  vineyard  :  we  must  be  all  up  and  doing ;  the  Lord  is  a^ 
hand,  and  let  us  not  lose  the  things  we  have  wrought,  but  labour 
and  exhort  each  other  to  diligence  and  faithfulness.  0 1  ray  friend, 
we  shall  reap  plentifully  if  we  faint  not :  it  is  thinking  of  your  un- 
wearied labours  that  inspires  even  so  dead  a  heart  as  mine  at  this  mo- 
ment with  great  earnestness ;  and  I  want  words  to  tell  you  what  shall 
be  your  reward :  all  I  can  say  is,  it  is  not  less  than  Infinite  Bounty 
which  is  to  pay  you." 

"March  15th,  1747. 
"  My  most  excellent  Friend, — I  have  so  sincere  a  regard  for  you, 
that  I  own  it  would  flatter  me  to  have  you  think  it  long  since  yott 
heard  from  me.  Company,  some  business,  and  my  weak  body,  make 
my  writing  often  to  be  attended  with  difficulty.  I  wished  much  to 
have  been  earlier  in  my  acknowledgments  of  your  last  than  usual,  as 
it  gave  not  only  all  that  spirit  of  Christian  friendship  that  I  now  am 
'  honoured  by  from  you,  but  the  consolation  of  assuring  me  you  hare 
hopes  of  finding  out  a  youth  who  may  be  thought  worthy,  from  pious 
disposition  and  education,  for  the  mmistry.  What  contribution  wfll 
be  wanting  from  me  towards  this  purpose,  I  beg  you  \i*ill  let  mc  l^now, 
and  my  excellent  friend  may  depend  upon  my  utmost  gratitude  for  this 
liigh  honour  vouchsafed  mc :  I  reel  my  mite  is  cast  into  the  treasury 
of  Qod ;  and  0 !  inexpressible  consolation !  that  he  in  his  lovo  is 
sending  these  calls  to  poor,  vile,  and  unworthy  me.  My  heart  ^\'ant8 
notliing  so  much  as  to  dispense  all — aU  for  the  glory  of  Him  whom 
my  soul  loveth. 

*'  I  have  ventured  to  send  you  a  letter  written  by  a  young  lady 
upon  the  death  of  her  lister,  but  with  perfect  confidence  that  you  will 
communicate  it  to  no  one  but  Mrs.  Doddridge,  and  that  you  will  be  so 
good  as  to  return  it.  A  most  wonderful  conversion,  and  it  has  bad 
the  same  eifect  upon  both  the  sisters  left  behind !  I  knew  it  would 
make  your  gracious  heart  glad,  as  many  incidents  lately  happening 
would  do,  could  I  enumerate  all.  0 !  many  prophets  and  religious 
men  have  desired  to  see  those  days,  and  have  not  seen  them :  great, 
great  is  the  power  of  the  Lord,  ^nd  for  ever  glorified  be  his  name. 
Some  important  time  is  coming :  0  mieht  I  hone  it  is  that  time  when 
all  things  shall  be  swallowed  up  by  the  enligntening  and  contorting 
displays  of  our  glorious  Redeemer's  kingdom ;  when  love  shall  be  the 
burning  language  of  the  heart,  and  every  soul  be  longing  for  the 
moment  of  bis  appearing.  My  hopes  are  not  only  full  of  immortality, 
but  of  this.  Your  works  are  blessed,  and  Qod  is  making  you  a 
polished  shaft  in  his  quiver.  I  want  every  body  to  pray  with  you.  and 
for  you,  that  you  may  wax  stronger  and  stronger.  I  have  haa  a  letter 
from  Lord  Bolingbroke,  who  thus  says — <  I  desire  my  compliments 
and  thanks  to  Dr.  Doddridge^  and  hope  I  shall  continue  to  deserve  his 
good  opinion.' 


so  THE   LIFE   AND  TIMES  OF 

"  I  am  strongly  baited  to  havo  somo  advico  about  my  health :  it 
socms  good  enougli  for  me,  but  not  for  my  children,  and  my  sister,  who 
18  now  with  mc,  and  who  is  very  unhanpy  to  see  me  so  weak  and  ill. 
in  submission  I  have  consented  to  apply 'to  one  of  the  faculty,  and  I 
Jiave  desired  that  it  may  be  Dr.  Stonhouse,  of  your  town,  who  is  the 
only  person  to  be  sent  for  to  mc,  whenever  I  should  be  so  ill  as  to  be 
thouglit  m  any  immediate  danger :  and,  till  then,  his  advice  taken  udou 
tny  case.  ^ 

A  !\       ?  *^"®  ^^y  received  a  fresh  mark  of  your  unwearied  pains 

^nd  tUoughte  about  me.     Alas !  could  you  know  Uiose  sighs  and  tears 

%  am  continually  offering  through  the  weakness  and  unprofitableness  of 

^y  lile,  they  would  speak  cruel  and  bitter  answere  to  the  tender  care 

^i  all  my  dear  friends.     I  often  took  to  that  bed  which  promises  me  a 

^^fugc  from  an  evil  world,  and  from  a  vet  more  evil  heart ;  but  how 

^^es  It  bound,  as  the  roe  or  hind  over  the  mountains,  when  tliat  all- 

^g-^nsporting  vie\y  presents  itself ;  presents,  0  glorious !  an  eternity  of 

joy»  *°  follow  this  glad  release  from  time;  everlasting  triumphs sound- 

jfj^^'J^^g^out  tlie  angelic  thrones  to  welcome  my  amval.     Such  love 

^     ^^' w^^^^^  -^  ^^*^^^'^»  ^^^  ®^^y  *^i^^c>  ^^^  misery  and  poverty  like 

^i  jie.     What  liberty  to  delight  in  that  which  is  most  excellent !     How 

^ijl^^g^  t^ose  facidtics  which  can  take  in  celestial  purity,  and,  by 

^^e^t  attraction,  engage  and  eternally  maintain  a  union  with  it !  Thus 

Jo  I  ^^\  ®^  death ;  he  is  called  a  monster,  a  king  of  terrors,  but  as 

^  Oabriels  salutation  shall  my  soul  meet  him  :  he  can  bring  no  other 

jjicssage  to  the  redeemed  in  Christ,  but,  'Hail,  thou  who  art  highly 

favoured  of  the  Lord  !*  and  though  it  is  true  so  great  a  stranger  may 

gyrprise  for  a  little,  yet  his   smiles  of  victory    udll  clear  even   the 

<rj-icvance  of  flesh  and  blood,  and  make  the  grave  appear  a  consecrated 

dormitory  for  sweet  repose.     0  glorious  Emmanuel !  how,  how  do  I 

long  ^or  that  immortal  voice  to  praise  thee  \nth ;  and  till  then,  that 

mortal  one  which  may  sound  through  earth  thy  love  to  man  I 

**  The  post  will  not  let  me  say  more.  I  am  happy  in  writing  to  you, 
as  I  find  so  perfect  a  liberty  in  my  mind  as  causes  me  to  rejoice.  My 
kindest  services  to  Mrs.  Doddridge  and  your  daughters ;  thank  them  a 
thousand  times  for  their  thoughts  about  me ;  and  Hve  assured  of  the 
most  unfeigned  esteem,  and  highest  regard  of,  your  most  unworthy 
friend,  who  hopes  to  continue  to  all  eternity,  ever,  ever  your  friend, 

"S.  Huntingdon." 

The  following  allusion  to  the  malignity  of  popular  persecution 

must  be  deeply  interesting: — 

"May  21,  1747. 
"  My  excellent  Friend, — I  delivered  your  letter  to  our  friend,  who 
was  here,  and  read  it  with  pleasure  and  joy,  as  all  that  comes  from 
you  occasions  to  those  who  love  our  Lord  in  sincerity.  We  have 
prayed  earnestly  together  for  you,  and  reconmiended,  just  before  we 
parted,  the  young  man. 

'v  heart  is  the  same,  I  drag  about  a  painful  companion,  and  yet  I 
e  satisfied  to  do  so :  how  long  it  may  last  I  know  not.  Our  affronts 
locations  berc;  for  the  word's  sake,  arc  hardly  to  be  described. 


SELINAj  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  81 

But,  alas,  these  are  among  those  honours  that  should  not  he  mentioned 
hy  me :  that  so  unworthy  a  mortal  should  thus  be  favoured  by  so 
loving  a  Father,  ought  to  make  me  bow  down  with  confusion  of  face, 
that  he  should  regard  me.  Many  secret  and  shameful  enemies  of  the 
Gospel,  by  His  will,  appear;  the  particulars  would  amuse  you,  and 
blessed  be  God  they  rejoice  me,  as  good  must  follow  from  it.  They 
called  out  in  the  open  streets  for  me,  saying,  if  they  had  me,  they 
would  tear  me  to  pieces,  &c.  but,  alas,  this  does  but  prove  that  it  is 
the  Lord  that  offends  them,  and  so  must  He  continue  to  the  unregene- 
rate  heart.  In  haste  I  must  assure  you  how  sincerely  and  affectionately 
I  remain  your  obliged  fi-iend,  "  "  S.  Huntingdon.*' 

Other  letters  of  interest  we  are  compelled  to  omit;  one, 
written  on  the  eve  of  her  sister's*  departure  for  Shropshire,  when 
Lady  Bentley  was  also  to  leave  her,  is  conceived  m  a  spirit  of 
extreme  humility,  gratitude,  and  affection,  and  of  intense  long- 
ing for  relief  from  the  burden  of  the  flesh. 

Lady  Huntingdon's  health,  although  she  had  a  partial  recovery, 
soon  began  to  decline,  and  her  disorder  to  increase,  to  an  alarm- 
ing degree.  Dr.  Stonhouse  was  sent  for ;  but  her  complaint 
increasing  rather  than  abating,  he  wisely  recommended  her  to 
go,  as  soon  as  convenient,  to  Bath,  as  the  most  likely  means  to 
restore  her.  On  her  way  thither,  she  spent  some  days  with  her 
sister.  Lady  Kilmorey,  m  Shropshire.  A  letter  to  Dr.  Dod- 
dridge, written  about  this  time,  sufficiently  manifests  the  blessed 
state  of  her  mind  during  the  season  of  sdBBiction,  and  expresses 
the  humility  and  faith  of  this  illustrious  woman  : — 

"Bath,  Nov.  1747. 

"  I  hope  you  will  never  care  about  the  ceremony  of  time  in  your 
letters  to  me,  but  just  when  attended  with  the  greatest  ease  to  yourself, 
as  we  both  agree  in  this  sentiment,  that  the  one  thing  worth  living  for 
must  be,  the  proclaiming  the  love  of  God  to  man  in  Jesus  Christ ;  so 
all  calls  for  that  end  will  secure  my  approbation  for  your  silence. 

*'  I  am  nothing — Christ  is  all ;  I  aisclaim,  as  well  as  disdain,  any 
righteousness  but  his.  I  not  only  rejoice  that  there  is  no  wisdom  for 
his  people  but  that  from  above,  but  reject  every  pretension  to  any 
but  what  comes  from  himself.  I  want  no  holiness  he  does  not  give 
me  ;  and  I  could  not  accept  a  heaven  he  did  not  prepare  me  for :  I  can 
wish  for  no  liberty  but  what  he  likes  for  me,  and  I  am  satisfied  with 
every  misery  he  does  not  redeem  me  from ;  that  in  all  things  I  may  feel 
that  without  him  I  can  do  nothing.  To  sit  at  his  feet  and  hearken  to 
his  sayings  is  an  honour  worthy  of  Gabriel,  who  is  always  in  the  presence 
of  God  ;  to  behold  the  glory  of  such  a  Saviour,  even  the  seraphs  might 
veil  their  faces — such  love  and  honour,  I  say,  as  this,  ought  to  make 
us  breathe  his  praises  from  pole  to  pole.     Many  are  our  enemies,  and 

*  Lady  Kilmorey. 
VOL.  I. — O. 


82  THE  LIf£  AND  TIMES  OF 

of  these,  not  only  our  own  sins,  but  the  spirit  of  tliat  world  in  which 
dwells  nothing  but  wretchedness  ;  but  while  it  is  through  his  love  that 
we  are  to  opnquer,  let  the  patience  of  his  saints  be  seen  in  us ;  let  our 
prayers  and  labours  be  useful  (instrumentally)  in  obtaining  crowns  of 
pure  gold  to  be  placed  on  the  heads  of  our  most  cruel  foes ;  that  the 
infinite  evil  of  the  worst  may  serve  only  to  raise  our  hearts  to  heaven 
for  their  infinite  good.  Did  we  enough  take  root  downward,  we  should 
bear  more  of  this  fruit  upwards  :  'tis  humility  must  make  us  ascend 
by  the  fiery  chariot :  that  Divine  (whom  my  soul  most  delights  in) 
ahows  me  my  lesson  in  these  few  words,  ^  Learn  of  me,  for  I  am  meek 
and  lowly/ 

^'  My  family  consists  of  two  sons  and  as  many  daughters  ;  for  all 
of  them  I  have  nothing  to  do  but  to  praise  God.  The  children  of  so 
many  prayers  and  tears,  I  doubt  not,  shall  one  day  be  blest,  your 
prayers  for  us  all  helping.  The  hint  you  gave  me  is  great  matter  of 
joy  to  me ;  my  soul  longeth  for  grace.  To  preach  Christ  and  his 
blessing  upon  repentance  over  the  eaith,  is  the  commission,  the  event 
must  be  with  him ;  all  else  is  from  man,  and  of  man :  He  must  gather 
and  unite  the  faithful,  since  it  is  He  alone  who  sits  in  heaven,  that 
mav  instruct  the  heart  for  His  purposes.  At  present  the  more  Uie 
little  leaven  is  hid  in  all,  the  more  of  the  whole  will  be  leavened. 
Parties  and  divisions  have  ever  been  the  stumbling-blocks  of  the  weak  ; 
if  we  were  altogether  with  the  Lord,  as  watchmen  for  him,  calling  day 
and  night  in  order  only  to  prepare  the  materials,  we  need  not  be  fear- 
ful, for  the  new  city  would  be  established  and  prevail  upon  the  earth ; 
but  this  bavins  always  been  attempted  by  man's  power,  and  so  little 
m  grace,  it  hath  come  to  nought.  May  the  Lord  give  us  all  such  love, 
to  live  and  to  die  to  Hiniy  and  for  Him  alone.  I  am,  with  most  kind 
respects  to  Mrs.  Doddridge,  your  most  sincere,  but  weak  and  unworthy 
friend,  S.  Huntingdon. 

^  P.S.  As  I  write  from  my  heart,  and  not  from  my  head,  you  may 
more  easily  forgive  incorrectness  when  you  meet  with  it." 

The  learning,  piety,  candour,  and  politeness  of  Dr.  Dod- 
dridge recommenaed  him  to  the  esteem  and  friendship  of  Lady 
Huntingdon;  and  her  correspondence  with  him,  from  which  the 
subjoined  extracts  are  made,  was  continued  up  to  the  time  of 
his  death. 

A  letter  from  Dr.  Watts  to  Dr.  Doddridge,  dated  Nov.  1747, 
contains  the  following  words: — 

"  Yesterday  my  Lady  Hertford*  gave  me  the  honour  of  a  letter, 
wherein  she  expresses  a  very  high  esteem  and  respect  for  you,  as  the 
author  of  the  <  Rise  and  Pro^^ress,'  and  for  your  account  of  *•  Colonel 
Gardiner's  Life,'  which  pleased  her  very  much,  and  she  tells  me  that 
I  shoold  let  you  know  it" 

♦  The  Duchess  oi^Somenet,  a  celebrated  patroness  of  the  Uteratare,  of  virtue, 
and  religion. 


SELINA,  COtNtESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  83 

But  it  was  reserved  for  Lady  Huntingdon  to  be  the  means  of 
introducing  the  Doctor  to  the  correspondence  of  the  Duchess. 
In  one  of  her  Ladyship's  letters  she  writes  thus  concerning  this 
eelebrated  woman : — 

*  Reverend  Sir, — Since  I  wrote  my  last  to  you,  I  have  received  a 
letter  from  my  beloved  Duchess  of  Somerset,  who  thus  writes  con- 
cerning you ;  I  should  be  Very  glad  to  see  any  sermons  of  Dr.  Dod- 
dridge, and  should  look  upoti  a  letter  from  him  as  an  hononr,  provided 
he  will  write  to  me  as  a  person  who  wants  both  instruction  and  reproof, 
but  not  as  one  who  has  attained  any  share  of  that  Christian  piety  and 
self-denial  without  which  all  pretensions  to  the  name  of  a  disciple 
are  vai^. 

'*  I  could  not  satisfy  myself  till  I  had  sent  you  the  above,  as  it  will 
not  only  encourage  you  w^rite  to  her,  but  show  you  how  amiable  and 
humble  a  disposition  you  have  to  address.  I  pray  to  God  to  improve 
this  friendship  to  you  both,  and  then  I  shall  think  myself  of  some  ser- 
vice ih  life.  You  were  so  good  as  to  design  for  us  a  parcel,  which  I 
shall  be  glad  to  receive,  as  there  is  nothing  yon  either  write  or  do  but 
I  am  interested  in.  You  must  forgive  my  reminding  you,  that  so 
taithfal  a  minister  of  the  Gospel,  not  only  merits  our  highest  regards^ 
but  our  many  blessings  also. 

^'  My  kindest  respects  to  Mrs.  Doddridge,  and  the  young  gentleman 
who  was  with  you  here,  and  to  Mr.  Jones,  whom  I  shall  be  extremely 
glad  to  see  whenever  he  has  an  opportunity  of  coming  my  way.  Live 
assured  of  the  most  sincere  regard  of  a  very  unworthy,  lu!;  truly  faith- 
ful and  most  obliged  friend, 

"  S.    HuNTINODON." 

Lady  Huntingdon  had  diligently  studied  the  Gospel,  and  had 
just  ideas  of  the  extent  and  importance  of  Christian  liberty. 
She  had  impartially  examined  the  controversy  between  the 
Dissenters  and  the  Church  of  England,  and  thought  it  her  duty 
to  adhere  to  the  latter.  But  she  was  desirous  to  cotmtenanx^ 
and  encourage  all  those  who  appeared  to  have  the  interest  of 
religion  much  at  heart,  and  to  be  zealous  to  instruct  ^rid  save 
souls,  though  they  were  of  different  persuasions  from  herself. 
Her  generous  heart  never  confined  truth  and  goodness  to  one 
particular  sect,  nor  in  any  other  respect  appeared  bigoted  to 
that,  or  uncharitable  to  those  who  differed  from  her.  She  re- 
joiced when  she  met  with  worthy  ministers  of  moderate  principle ; 
thought  herself  happy  in  the  intimate  friendship  of  sonne  6f 
them ;  and  maintained  a  regular  correspondence  with  others. 
She  always  spoke  of  them  in  the  most  respectful  fermy,'  fre- 
quently invited  them  to  her  house,  and  did  tiiem  all  the  servite 
in  her  power^  as  she  believed  they  acted  agreeably  to  the  con- 
victions of  their  own  consciences.  Dr.  Doddridge  was  eminently 
a  man  of  candour  and  liberality.  A  rigid  spirit,  and  a  stiffness 
o2 


84  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  01* 

about  things  non-essential,  he  very  much  disliked ;  he  enter- 
tained a  high  opinion  of  the  piety  and  zeal  of  many  of  those 
Clergymen  of  the  Church  of  England  who  were  stigmatized  as 
Methodists.  He  had  seen  the  good  effects  of  their  itinerant 
labours  in  his  own  neighbourhood — he  had  heard  of  more,  and 
on  unquestionable  authority ;  and  this  left  him  no  room  to  doubt 
that  God  had  owned  them.  He  was  well  aware  that  there 
was  some  enthusiasm  among  them,  and  much  among  their  fol- 
lowers; but  he  was  nevertheless  fully  convinced  that  they  were 
eminently  useful  in  rousing  the  attention  of  the  careless  and 
indifferent  to  the  great  things  of  eternity;  in  leading  them  to 
read  and  study  the  Scriptures,  and  attend  religious  worship  in 
places  where  thev  might  be  better  instructed  and  edified.  Many 
friendly  and  fait\iful  admonitions  he  gave  them,  and  it  was  no 
inconsiderable  evidence  of  the  humility  and  candour  of  some 
of  the  great  leaders  of  Methodism,  particularly  Mr.  Whitefield 
and  Lady  Huntingdon,  with  whom  he  was  more  congenial  in 
sentiment,  that  they  desired  him  freely  to  tell  them  what  he 
thought  amiss  in  their  sentiments  and  conduct,  and  that  they 
received  his  admonitions  with  thankfulness.  He  endeavoured 
to  show  them  their  errors  and  to  regulate  their  zeal,  which  he 
thought  a  more  friendly  part,  and  more  becoming  a  Christian 
minister,  than  to  revile  and  ridicule  them.  As  they  saw  the 
common  people  struck  and  captivated  with  their  address  and 
appearance  of  zeal,  he  wished  their  wiser  brethren  would  plainly 
and  seriously  teach  the  Gospel,  take  due  care  of  the  souls 
committed  to  them,  labour  more  abundantly  in  their  Master's 
work,  and  thereby  secure  yet  greater  popularity  and  acceptance 
by  means  which  they  themselves  must  think  just  and  laudable ; 
for  these  he  thought  it  their  duty  to  use,  whatever  their  par- 
ticular sentiments  and  stations  were. 

About  the  month  of  May,  1748,  Lady  Huntingdon  and  her 
daughters,  accompanied  by  Lady  Anne  and  Lady  Frances 
Hastings,  left  Bath,  where  they  had  been  staying  some  con- 
siderable time,  on  a  tour  through  Wales.  It  is  a  matter  of 
regret  that  so  little  information  can  now  be  obtained  of  her 
Ladyship's  journey  into  a  part  of  the  kingdom  where  she  was 
destmed  in  after  years  to  reap  a  harvest  so  abundant.  From 
the  scanty  materials,  however,  which  remain,  an  imperfect  and 
irregular  journal  in  the  hand-writing  of  Lady  Frances  Hastings, 
we  are  informed,  that  Lady  Huntingdon  was  met  at  Bristol 
by  Mr.  Howel  Harris,  Mr.  Griffith  Jones,  Mr.  Daniel  Row- 
lands, and  Mr.  Howel  Davies,  all  of  whom  accompanied  her 
into  the  Principality.     They  appear  to  have   travelled  slowly 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  85 

taking  short  stages  every  day.  For  fifteen  days  successively,  two 
of  the  ministers  that  accompanied  her  Ladyship  preached  in 
some  town  or  village  through  which  they  passed,  by  which 
means  the  seed  of  divine  truth  was  widely  scattered  over  a 
large  extent  of  country.  In  Cardiganshire  her  Ladyship  was 
visited  by  the  Rev.  Philip  Pu^h,  a  Dissenting  minister,  eminent 
for  his  piety,  diligence,  and  success.  On  their  arrival  at 
Trevecca,  in  Brecknockshire,  they  were  joined  by  several  of 
the  awakened  clergymen,  particularly  mr,  William  Williams, 
Mr.  Thomas  Lewis,  and  Mr.  Penry  JBaillie,  Mr.  John  Powel, 
and  Mr.  Thomas  Jones.  Also  by  some  of  the  exhorters,  or 
lay-preachers,  and  some  pious  and  laborious  Dissenting  minis- 
ters, amongst  whom  Mr.  John  Watkins,  Mr.  Lewis  Jones,  of 
Glamorganshire,  and  Mr.  Lewis  Rees,  from  North  Wales, 
were  the  most  notable.  Her  Ladyship  remained  a  few  days  at 
Trevecca,  which  exactly  twenty  years  after  became  her  chief 
residence  and  scene  of  action.  Whilst  there,  they  had  preach- 
ing four  or  five  times  a  day,  to  immense  crowds  who  had 
collected  from  all  the  adjacent  country.  "  The  divine  influence 
of  the  spirit  of  God,"  says  Lady  Frances,  "  was  very  evidently 
afforded  with  his  Word,  and  many  were  added  unto  the  Lord's 
people."  On  one  occasion,  when  Mr.  Griffith  Jones  preached 
m  a  large  field  from  that  passage  in  the  fortieth  chapter  of  the 
Prophecies  of  Isaiah,  "  What  shall  I  cry,"  there  was  an  ex- 
traordinary manifestation  of  the  grace  and  power  of  God  over 
the  assembled  multitude,  so  that  many  were  deeply  convinced 
of  their  misery  and  guilt,  and  cried  aloud  in  the  most  awful 
manner.  When  the  sermon  was  ended.  Lady  Huntingdon 
inquired  of  many  of  those  who  had  been  so  affected,  the  cause 
of  their  loud  and  bitter  cries.  Most  of  them  replied,  ^^  that 
they  were  so  powerfully  and  deeply  convinced  of  their  sinful- 
ness and  awful  condition  in  the  sight  of  God,  that  they  were 
afraid  he  never  would  have  mercy  on  them."  The  people  in 
general,  through  the  whole  assembly,  seemed  greatly  bowed 
down  and  humbled  before  the  Lord,  and  many  said,  ^^they 
should  never  forget  the  time  when  God  was  so  gracious  unto 
them." 

On  another  occasion,  when  Mr.  Rowlands  preached  at  a  small 
town  in  Caermarthenshire,  God  accompanied  the  word  in  a  very 
powerful  manner.  ^<  It  was  remarkable  at  this  season,"  observes 
Lady  Frances,  ^^  that  as  sinners  were  generally  under  a  most 
distressing  sense  of  their  guilt,  so  the  people  of  God  were 
sensibly  refreshed  and  comforted.  Their  souls  were  magoi^ing 
the  Lord,  and  rejoicing  in  God  their  Saviour,  who  hatn  abne 


86  THE  tiFE  AND  TIBfBS  OF 

such  great  things  for  thenii  while  others  in  distressing  agony 
were  crying  out,  Men  and  brethren  what  shall  we  do  f** 

Accompanied  by  Mr.  Howel  Harris  and  Mr,  Howel  Davies, 
Lady  Huntingdon  left  Wales,  and  arrived  in  London,  on  the 
15th  June,  a  few  weeks  before  Mr.  Whitefield's  return  from 
America.  Her  Ladyship  was  both  gratified  and  refreshed  by 
what  she  witnessed  in  the  Principality.  ^^  On  a  review  of  all  I 
hf^ve  seen  and  heard,  during  trie  last  few  weeks,"  says  the 
Countess,  I  am  constrained  to  exclaim,  ^^  bless  the  Lord,  O  my 
soul,  and  all  that  is  within  me,  bless  his  holy  name.  The  ser- 
mons were  in  general  lively  and  awakening,  containing  the  most 
solemn  and  awful  truths ;  such  as  the  utter  ruin  of  man  by  the 
&U,  and  his  redemption  and  recovery  by  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
the  energetic  declaration  of  which  produced  great  and  visible 
effects  in  many.  I  enquired  the  meaning  of  the  outcry  which 
sometimes  spread  through  the  congregation,  and  when  informed 
that  it  arose  from  a  deep  conviction  of  sin,  working  powerfully 
on  the  awakened  conscience,  I  could  not  but  acknowledge, 
This  is  the  LorcTs  doing^  and  it  is  marvellous  in  our  eyes* 
Many,  on  these  solemn  occasions,  there  is  reason  to  believe, 
were  brought  out  of  nature's  deepest  darkness  into  the  marvellous 
light  of  the  all-glorious  Gospel  of  Christ.  My  earnest  prayer 
to  God  for  them  is,  that  they  may  continue  in  his  grace  and 
)ove:  and,  with  full  purpose  of  heart,  cleave  unto  the  Lord, 
idpprove  themselves  the  true  and  faithful  disciples  of  a  crucified 
Saviour,  and  through  manifold  temptations,  opposition,  and 
reproach,  be  enabled  to  press  toward  the  mark  lor  the  high 
prue  of  the  calling  of  God  in  Christ  Jesus." 
.  Not  long  after  her  Ladyship's  return  to  London,  Dr.  Dod- 
4ridge  paid  a  visit  to  the  metropolis.  During  his  stay  he  was 
very  frequently  at  Lady  Huntingdon's  house.  In  a  letter  to  Mrs. 
Poddric^e,  he  says : — 

*'  I  can  conclude  with  telling  you  that  I  am  now  come  to  the  con- 
clusion of  one  of  the  most  pleasant  days  I  shall  ever  spend  without  you. 
After  an  hour's  charming  conversation  with  Lady  Huntingdon  and 
]Mrs.  Edwin,  I  preached  in  her  family,  by  express  desire,  and  met 
Colonel  Gumley,  who  is  really  a  second  Colonel  Gardiner.  Such  a 
iliionument  of  the  power  and  sovereignty  of  divine  grace  as,  truly,  I 
have  hardly  ever  met  vnth^  since  I  was  acquainted  with  his  story. 
After  dinner,  the  ladies  entertained  us  with  uieir  voices  and  a  harpsi- 
chord, with  which  I  was  highly  delighted :  and  I  have  stolen  a  hymn^ 
which  I  steadfastly  believe  to  be  written  by  good  Lady  Huntingdon, 
and  whioh  I  shall  not  fail  to  communicate  to  you. 

^  \Mj  HuQtingdoQ  13  quite  f^  mothei  to  the  p«or ;  she  viaitii  then. 


SELINA,   COUNTESS   OF   HUNTINGDON.  87 

and  prays  with  them  in  their  sicknesses ;  and  they  leave  their  children  to 
her  for  a  legacy  when  they  die,  and  she  takes  care  of  them.  I  was 
really  astonished  at  the  traces  of  religion  I  discovered  in  her  and  Mrs. 
Edwin,*  and  cannot  hut  glorify  Qod  for  them.  More  cheerfulness  I 
never  saw  intermingled  with  devotion.  Lady  Frances  Gardiner  sets 
out  on  Tuesday  next :  I  have  taken  my  leave  of  her," 


CHAPTER    VII. 


Mr.  Whitefield  arrives  in  England — Preaches  at  Lady  HuntingdoR*B — Letters 

— Lord  Chesterfield — Lord    Bolingbroke Anecdotes   of  Mr.   Wliitefield*8 

preaching — Appointed  chaplain  to  Lady  Huntingdon — Christian  Soldiers — 

Bishop  of    Exeter — Colonel   Gumley — Mr.  Edwin — Lord  St  John Lady 

Suffolk — The  Court  Beauties — Lord  Chesterfield — Marquis  of  Lothian^. 
Lady  Mary  Hamilton — Anecdotes— Lady  Townshend — English  Nobility  at 
Lady  Huntingdon's — Sir  Watkins  Williams  Wynne — Persecution  of  the  Welsh 
Methodists — Liberal  Conduct  of  the  Government— .Marmaduke  Gwynne^Esq, 

Lady  Huntingdon  had  now  become  the  open  and  avowed 
patroness  of  all  the  zealous  clergy  of  the  Church  of  England 
Yiho  dared  to  be  singular  in  the  unambiguous  preaching  of  the 
Gosi)el,  many  of  whom  exposed  themselves,  particularly  at  this 
period,  to  much  obloquy,  abuse,  and  persecution.  Her  Lady- 
ship became  a  shelter,  and  the  companion  of  all  those  who  were 
so  used.  A  difference  on  some  doctrinal  points  caused  a  separa- 
tion   between    Mr.  Whitefield   and   Mr.   Wesley,   and  their 

*  Several  of  the  Edwin  familv  were  conspicuous  in  the  early  days  of  Metho- 
dism. John  Edwin,  Esq.,  the  husband  of  the  above-named  Mrs.  Edwin,  held 
several  offices  under  government,  and  was  a  Member  of  Parliament  Dr.  Dod- 
dridge, in  his  Reflections  on  the  opening  of  the  year  1749,  thus  speaks  of  him  : 

"  The  accession  of  several  valuable  friends,  to  balance  the  loss  of  some  few 

by  death,  is  also  to  be  gratefully  remembered ;  particularly  my  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon, Mr.  Edwin,  and  Colonel  Gumley.'**  His  only  daughter  and  heir,  Miss 
Elizabeth  Edwin,  whom  Horace  Walpole  complains  of  to  his  corrt'^>ondent. 
Sir  Horace  Mann,  as  having  turned  Methodist,  was  the  particular  friend  of  the 
eccentric  Lady  Townsend,  and  married  Charles  Dalrymple,  Esq^  grandson  of 
the  Hon.  Sir  Hugh  Dalrymple,  brother  of  John,  second  Viscount  Stair.  (  See 
a  Note,  post,  page  89.)  Charles  Edwin,  Esq.,  M,P.,  the  brother  of  Mr. 
Edwin,  married  LiEidy  Charlotte  Hamilton,  one  of  the  attendants  of  the  Prince 
of  Wales*s  children.  Their  mother.  Lady  Catherine  Edwin,  was  sister  to  the 
first  Duke  of  Manchester,  and  to  Anne,  Countess  of  Suffolk.  Sir  Humphrey 
Ed^vin,  Lord  Mayor  of  London,  was  grandfather  to  Mr.  Edwin ;  Mrs.  Edwin's 
family  formed  alliances  with  that  of  the  Marouis  of  Westminster,  and  Lord  St 
John,  of  Bletsloe.  She  was  eldest  daughter  ot  Sir  Roger  Bradshaigh,  of  Hai^, 
in  the  county  of  Lancaster,  Bart,  and  M.  P.  On  the  failure  of  the  male  branch 
of  this  family,  in  1787,  the  estate  of  Haigh  devolved  on  Mrs.  Edwin's  gnnd-i 
daughter,  the  CoualMe  of  BsI^mtm^ 


88  THE   LIFE   AND  TIMES  OF 

disciples  soon  after  became  divided.  "  They  parted,  indeed," 
says  Dr.  Haweis,  "  like  Paul  and  Barnabas ;  but  the  extent  of 
the  sphere  of  their  usefulness  was  thereby  enlarged."  Her 
Ladyship's  correspondence  with  Mr.  Howel  Harris,  and  several 
of  the  Welsh  clergy  who  had  been  awakened  under  Mr.  White- 
field's  ministry,  was  the  means,  under  God,  of  leading  her  into 
more  consistent  views  of  divine  truth,  which  she  ever  after  main- 
tained, and  in  the  firm  belief  of  which  she  ended  her  days.  Her 
jealous  heart  embraced  with  cordiality  all  whom  she  esteemed 
real  Christians,  whatever  their  denomination  or  opinion  might 
be ;  but  from  this  period  her  connections  with  ministers  and 
Christians  of  the  Calvinis tic  persuasion,  according  to  the  liberal 
sense  of  the  Articles  of  the  Church  of  England,  became  greatly 
enlarged. 

Lady  Huntingdon's  heart  expanded  towards  all  the  children 
of  God — she  loved  all  those  whom  she  had  reason  to  believe 
loved  her  Divine  Master — and  considering  herself  as  "  a  debtor 
both  to  the  Greeks  and  Barbarians,"  she  was  ready,  had  it  been 
possible,  to  have  visited  the  uttermost  parts  of  the  earth  with 
the  glorious  truths  of  the  Gospel  of  God  our  Saviour. 

At  what  exact  period  Lady  Huntingdon  first  became  ac- 
quainted with  Mr.Whitefield,  cannot  now  be  ascertained  with 
any  degree  of  accuracy.  But  it  must  have  been  previous  to  his 
voyage  to  America  in  1744.  Her  Ladyship  had  heard  him 
preach  several  times  in  London,  Bristol,  and  other  places,  and 
vras  personally  acquainted  with  him  at  a  very  early  period.  In 
one  of  his  letters  from  Boston,  in  the  beginning  of  the  year 
1745,  he  speaks  of  her  Ladyship's  kindness  to  him,  and  his  joy 
at  hearing  that  she  continued  stedfast  and  immoveable  in  her 
profession  of  the  faith  once  delivered  to  the  saints.  From 
JBethesda,  in  December,  1746,  when  writing  to  Howel  Harris, 
he  says : — 

**  Blessed  be  God  for  the  good  effected  by  your  ministry  at  the  Taber- 
nacle, of  which  I  have  been  informed  by  letters  from  Herbert  Jenkins 
and  Thomas  Adams.  The  good  Countess  hath  been  there  frequently, 
and  much  pleased,  I  am  told.  She  shines  brighter  and  brighter  every 
day  ;  and  will  yet  I  trust  be  spared  for  a  nursing  mother  to  our  Israel. 
This  revives  me,  after  the  miserable  divisions  that  have  taken  place 
amongst  my  English  friends.  I  trust  the  storm  is  now  blown  over, 
and  that  the  little  flock  will  enjoy  a  calm.  Her  Ladyship  s  example 
and  conduct  in  this  trying  affair  ^vill  be  productive  of  much  good.  My 
poor  prayers  will  be  daily  offered  up  to  the  God  of  all  grace  to  keep 
her  sted^t  in  the  faitb^  and  make  her  a  burning  and  a  shining  Itght 
in  our  British  Israel.' 

And  again,  in  June,  1747,  when  writing  from  New  York,  he 


5ELINA,  COUNTESS  OP  HUNTINGDON.  89 

begs  to  "  return  his  most  dutiful  respects  to  good  Lady  Hun* 
tingdon,  the  Marquis  of  Lothian,  &c." 

After  four  years'  absence  he  returns  to  England,  and  in  one 
of  his  earliest  letters,  after  landing  at  Deal,  he  says  :-^ 

'^  Words  cannot  express  how  joyful  my  friends  were  to  see  me  once 
more  in  the  land  of  the  living,  for  I  find  the  newspapers  had  buried  me 
ever  since  April  last*  But  it  seems  I  am  not  to  die,  but  live — 0  that 
it  may  be  to  declare  the  works  of  the  Lord.*' 

Howel  Harris  was  at  this  time  in  London,  having  come  thither 
with  the  Countess ;  whom  he  accompanied  from  Wales.  Her 
Ladyship  having  now  drank  in  the  same  spirit  with  Mr.  White- 
field,  requested  Mr.  Harris  to  bring  him  to  her  house  at  Chelsea 
as  soon  as  he  came  on  shore.  He  went,  accompanied  by  Mr. 
Harris,  and  having  preached  twice,  her  Ladyship  wrote  to  him, 
that  several  of  the  nobility  desired  to  hear  him.  This  was  on 
the  20th  of  August,  and  the  next  day  Mr.  Whitefield  sent  the 
following  letter  to  the  Countess: — 

«Auffust21, 1748. 
"  Honoured  Madam, — I  received  your  Ladyship's  letter  last  night, 
and  write  this  to  inform  you  that  I  am  quite  willing  to  comply  with 
your  invitation.  As  I  am  to  preach,  God  willing,  at  St  Bartholomew's 
on  Wednesday  evening,  I  will  wait  upon  you  the  next  morning,  and 
spend  the  whole  day  at  Chelsea.  Blessed  be  God  that  the  rich  and 
great  begin  to  have  hearing  ears.  I  think  it  is  a  good  sign  that  our 
Lord  intends  to  give  to  some^  at  least,  an  obedient  heart.  Surely  your 
Ladyship  and  Madam  Edwint  arc  only  the  first  fruits.  May  you 
increase  and  multiply !  I  believe  you  will.  How  wonderfully  does 
our  Redeemer  deal  ^vith  souls.  If  they  will  hear  the  Gospel  only  under 
a  cieled  roof,  ministers  shall  be  sent  to  them  there.  If  only  in  a  church 
or  a  field,  they  shall  have  it  there.  A  word  in  the  lesson,  when  I  was 
last  at  your  Ladyship's,  struck  me — *  Paul  preached  privately  to  thote 
that  were  of  reputation.'  This  must  be  the  way,  I  presume,  of  dealing 
with  the  nobiUty  who  yet  know  not  the  Lord.  0  that  I  may  be  enabled, 
when  called  to  preach  to  any  of  them,  so  to  preach  as  to  win  their 
souls  to  the  blessed  Jesus !  I  know  you  will  pray  that  it  may  be  so. 
As  for  my  poor  prayers,  such  as  they  are,  your  Ladyship  hath  them 
every  day.  That  the  blessed  Jesus  may  make  you  happily  instrumental 
in  bringing  many  of  the  noble  and  mighty  to  the  saving  knowledge  of 
his  eternal  self,  and  water  your  own  soul  every  moment,  is  the  con- 
tinual request  of,  honoured  Madam,  your  Ladyship's  most  obliged, 
obedient,  humble  servant,  "  G.  Whitefield." 

He  delayed  his  departure  from  London  to  preach  to  the  nobi* 

*  See  Gentleman's  Magazine,  1748. 

f  Mrs.  Edwin  was  a  woman  of  great  rank,  and  her  influence  at  Court,  which 
exposed  her  more  to  the  shafts  of  ridicule,  and  made  her  especially  liable  to  the 
attacks  of  vanity,  rendered  her  conversion  the  more  remarkable.  She  was  the 
fast  friend  of  Lady  Huntingdon,  and  a  great  favourite  with  Mr.  Whitefield,  who 


96  THB  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 


lity  at  Lady  Huntingdon's — to  her  Ladyship's  invitation  the  fol- 
lowing letter  refers : — 

"Ever  since  the  reading  of  your  Lad3r8hip*8  condescending  letter 
(says  he)  my  soul  has  heen  overpowered  with  His  presence  who  is 
uU  in  all.  As  there  seems  to  he  a  door  openine  for  the  nohility  to 
hear  the  Gospel,  I  will  defer  my  journey  till  Thursday,  and,  God  will- 
ing, preach  at  your  Ladyship's  on  Thursday.  In  the  mean  while  I  wait 
upon  or  send  to  the  Count,  the  Danish  Ambassador's  brother,  who 
favours  me  with  his  company  on  Monday,  to  dine.  On  Monday  morn- 
ing from  nine  to  near  eleven  I  will  be  at  your  Ladyship's,  and  wait  to 
know  your  order  concerning  Tuesday.  0  that  God  may  be  with  me 
and  make  me  humble !  I  am  ashamed  to  think  you  will  admit  me 
under  your  roof,  much  more  am  I  amazed  that  the  Lord  Jesus  will 
make  use  of  such  a  creature  as  I  am.  Under  a  sense  of  this  I  write 
to  you  now.  It  is  late,  and  my  poor  body  calls  for  rest.  But  as  I  am 
to  preach /bur  times  to-morrow,  I  thought  it  my  duty  to  send  these 
few  lines  to-night  Quite  astom'shed  at  your  Ladyship's  condescension, 
and  the  unremitted  superabounding  grace  and  goodness  of  Him  who  has 
loved  me  and  given  himself  for  me,  I  subscribe  myself,  honoured 
Madam,  your  Ladyship's  most  obHged,  obedient,  humble,  and  willing 
servant,  "  G.  Whitbpibld." 

On  the  day  appointed  Mr.  Whitefield  preached   at   Lady 
Huntingdon's.     The  Earl  of  Chesterfield,  and  a  whole  circle 
of  the  nobility  attended ;  and  having  heard  once,  desired  they 
might  hear  him  again.     ^^  My  hands  (says  he)  have  been  full 
of  work,  and   I  have  been  among  great  company,     A  Privy 
Councillor  of  the  King  of  Denmark,  and  others,  with  one  of  the 
Prince  of  Wales's  favourites,  dined  and  drank  tea  with  me  on 
Monday.     On  Tuesday  I  preached  twice  at  Lady  Huntingdon's 
to  several  of  the  nobility.     In  the  morning  the  Earl  of  Chester- 
field was  present ;  in  tne  evening  the  Lord  Bolingbroke.     All 
behaved  quite  well,  and  were  in  some  degree  affected.     Lord 
Chesterfield  thanked  me,  and  said,  *  Sir,  1  will  not  tell  you  what 
I  shall  tell  others,  how  I  approve  of  you,'  or  words  to  this  pur- 
pose.    He  conversed  with  me  freely  afterwards.     Lord  Bohng- 
broke  was  much  moved,  and  desired  I  would  come  and  see  him 
the  next  morning.     I  did,  and  his  Lordship  behaved  with  great 
candour  and  frankness.    All  accepted  of  my  sermons,  and  seemed 
surprised,  but  pleased.     Thus  the  world  turns  round ;  *  In  all 
time  of  my  wealth,  good  Lord  deliver  me  !' " 

Mr.  Whitefield  never  sought  the  patronage  of  the  great,  nor 

in  all  his  letters,  warned  her  against  the  snares  to  which  her  condition  led. 
*'  To  see  any  one  converted,  (be  says)  is  a  miracle  ;  but  to  see  a  rich  person, 
one  of  the  mighty,  one  of  the  noble  converted,  is  a  greater.  May  the  Lord 
Jesus  add  more  of  your  lank  to  bis  Church  P  See  tbe  note  at  doee  of  the  last 
chapter,  p.  87. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HXTNTIKGDON.  91 

over  emploved  it  for  any  personal  end.  To  the  credit  of  his 
first  noble  friends — the  Marquis  of  Lothian,  Earl  of  Leven,  and 
Lord  Roe — they  sought  his  friendship  because  they  admired 
his  talents  and  appreciated  his  character.  They  were  cap- 
tivated by  the  preaching  which  won  the  multitude ;  and  when 
they  wrote  to  him,  he  answered  them,  just  as  he  did  any  one 
else  who  sought  his  counsel  or  prayers,  cautiously  and  faithfully. 
He  paid  them,  indeed,  the  current  compliments  of  his  times; 
and  if  these  ever  amounted  to  flattery  in  appearance,  they 
were  followed  by  loamings  which  no  real  flatterer  would  have 
dared  to  whisper.  In  his  first  letters  to  the  Marquis  of 
Lothian,  he  said,  "  You  do  well,  my  Lord,  to  fear  lest  your 
convictions  should  wear  off" — Your  Lordship  is  m  a  dangerous 
situation  in  the  world.  Come,  then,  and  lay  yourself  at  the 
feet  of  Jesus.  As  for  praying  in  your  family^  I  entreat  you, 
my  Lord,  not  to  neglect  it.  You  are  bound  to  do  it.  ApP'^ 
to  Christ  for  strength  to  overcome  your  present  fears.  Tney 
are  the  effects  of  pride,  or  infidelity,  or  both."  These  are  not 
unfair  specimens  of  Mr.  Whitefield's  correspondence  with  the 
Scotch  nobles  who  honoured  him  with  their  confidence.  Upon 
some  of  the  English  noblemen,  who  were  brought  to  hear  nim 
by  Lady  Huntingdon,  his  influence  was  equally  great  and 
good. 

Among  his  friends  were,  also,  "  honourable  women  not  a  few.** 
These  needed  "  strong  consolation,"  in  order  to  resist  the  strong 
temptations  presented  by  a  frivolous  Court,  a  witty  Peerage,  and 
a  learned  Bench,  in  favour  of  a  formal  religion.  Nothing  but 
^'  the  joy  of  the  Lord"  could  have  sustained  them  in  such  a 
sphere.  Happiness  in  religion  was  the  best  security  for  their 
holiness.  They  could  not  be  laughed  out  of  a  ffood  hope 
through  grace.  Wit  and  banter  may  make  the  fear  of  persisting 
seem  a  weakness  or  a  fancy ;  but  they  cannot  make  hope,  peace, 
or  joy  seem  absurd.  Neither  the  rough  jibes  of  Warburton,  nor 
the  polished  sarcasms  of  Chesterfield  and  Bolingbroke,  could 
touch  the  consciousness  of  peace  in  believing,  or  of  enjoyment  in 
secret  prayer,  in  the  hearts  of  those  Peeresses  who  had  found, 
at  the  Cross  and  the  Mercy  Seat,  the  happiness  they  had  sought 
in  vain  from  the  world. 

Few  preachers  possessed  eloquence  so  well  adapted  to  an 
auditory  as  Mr.  Whitefield.  His  metaphors  were  drawn  from 
sources  easily  understood  by  his  hearers,  and  frequently  from 
the  circumstances  of  the  moment  The  application  was  gene- 
rally happy,  and  sometimes  rose  to  the  true  sublime :  for  be  was 
a  man  ot  warm  imagination,  and  by  no  means  devoid  of  taste. 
In  a  company  of  noblemen  and  gentlemen,  at  brcsakfiiatt  some 


92  THE  LirE  AND  TIMES  OF 

years  since  the  conversation  turned  on  powerful  preachers, 
when  Mr.  Whitefield  was  naturally  mentioned.  The  Kev.  John 
Newton  said — 

"  I  bless  God  that  I  have  lived  in  bis  time ;  many  were  the  winter 
mornings  I  have  got  up  at  four,  to  attend  his  Tabernacle  discourses  at 
five :  and  I  have  seen  Moorfields  as  full  of  lanterns  at  these  times  as 
I  suppose  the  Ha}'market  is  full  of  fhimbeaux  on  an  Opera  night.  As 
a  preacher,  if  any  man  was  to  ask  me  who  was  the  second  I  ever  had 
heard,  I  sbould  be  at  some  loss;  but  in  regard  to  the  first,  Mr.  Whitefield 
exceeded  so  far  every  other  man  of  my  time,  that  I  should  be  at  none. 
He  was  the  original  of  popular  preaching,  and  all  our  popular  ministers 
are  only  his  copies."* 

As  might  have  been  expected,  the  spirit-stirring  eloquence  of 
Mr.  Whitefield  fixed  the  attention  of  the  Countess,  and  she 
resolved  to  appoint  him  her  Chaplain.  Her  Ladyship's  letter, 
with  the  offer  of  a  scarf,  and  her  patronage  and  protection,  is 
thus  acknowledged  by  Mr.  Whitefield,  on  the  eve  of  his  depar- 
ture from  London. 

"London,  Sept  1,  1748. 
"  Honoured  Madam, — Although  it  is  time  for  me  to  be  setting  out, 
yet  I  dare  not  leave  town  without  dropping  a  few  lines,  gratefully  to 
acknowledge  the  many  favours  I  have  received  from  your  Ladyship ; 
especially  the  honour  you  have  done  me  in  making  mc  one  of  your 
Chaplains.  A  sense  of  it  humbles  mc,  and  makes  me  to  pray  more 
intensely  for  more  grace,  to  walk  more  worthy  of  that  God,  who  has 
called  me  to  his  kingdom  and  his  glory.  As  your  Ladyship  hath  been 
pleased  to  confer  on  me  the  honour  before  mentioned,  I  shall  think  it 
my  duty  to  send  you  weekly  acounts  of  what  the  Lord  Jesus  is 
pleased  to  do  for  and  by  me.  Glory  be  to  his  great  name,  the  pros- 
pect is  promising.  My  Lord  Bath  received  me  yesterday  morning,  very 
cordially,  and  would  give  me  five  guineas  for  the  orphans,  though  I 

*  As  a  proof  of  the  power  of  Mr.  Whitefield's  preaching,  Mr.  Newton  men- 
tioned, that  an  officer  at  Glasgow,  who  had  heard  him  preach,  laid  a  wager  with 
another,  that  at  a  certain  charity  sennon,  though  he  went  with  prejudice,  he 
would  be  compelled  to  give  something ;  the  other,  to  make  sure,  bud  all  the 
money  out  of  his  pockets,  but  before  he  left  the  church,  he  was  glad  to  borrow 
some,  and  lose  his  bet.  Mr.  Newton  mentioned  another  striking  example 
of  Mr.  Wbitefield*s  persuasive  oratory — his  collecting  at  one  sermon,  six 
hundred  pounds  for  the  inhabitants  of  an  obscure  village  in  Germany  that  had 
been  burnt  down :  no  very  interesting  object,  surely,  for  the  public  in  London. 
However,  after  the  sermon,  Mr.  Whitefield  said, "  We  shall  smg  a  hymn,  during 
which  those  who  do  not  choose  to  give  their  mite  on  this  awful  occasion  may 
sneak  off."  Not  one  stirred;  he  got  down  from  the  pulpit,  and  ordered  all 
the  doors  to  be  shut  but  one,  at  which  he  held  the  plate  himself,  and  collected 
the  above  sum ;  more  than  was  ever  done  on  a  similar  occasion.  Mr.  Newton 
related  as  a  fact,  that  at  the  time  of  his  greatest  persecution,  when  obliged  to 

{>reach  in  the  streets,  in  one  week  he  leceived  not  fewer  than  a  thousand 
etters  from  persons  distressed  in  their  consciences  by  the  energy  of  his 
preaching. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  93 

refused  taking  anything  for  the  books.  I  send  your  Ladyship  a  little 
box  of  my  $enuons,  and  the  last  account  of  God's  dealing  with  mc, 
and  of  the  money  expended  for  the  Orphan  House,  with  my  oath  be- 
fore the  magistrates  of  Savannah.  I  hope  God  intends  to  honour  your 
Ladyship  in  making  you  instrumental  in  doing  good  to  the  nobility. 
His  Providence,  his  peculior  Providence,  hath  placed  you  at  Chelsea. 
I  am  persuaded  you  will  not  quit  that  part  till  he  that  hath  placed 
you  there  plainly  gives  you  a  dismission.  I  dare  add  no  more,  but  my 
hearty  prayers  for  the  temporal  and  eternal  welfare  of  your  Ladyship, 
and  your  whole  household ;  and  I  subscribe  myself,  honoured  Madam, 
your  Ladyship's  most  obliged  humble  servant, 

"  G.  Whitbpield." 

Mr.  Whitefield's  connexion  with  Lady  Huntingdon,  as  her 
Chaplain,  and  his  having  preached  to  lar^e  numbers  of  the 
nobility  at  her  house,  now  became  generally  spoken  of  in  all 
circles,  so  that  his  popularity  was  considerably  increased  thereby. 
The  manner  in  which  he  refers  to  this  introduction  amongst  the 
great,  has  been  quoted  against  him  as  a  proof  of  vanity.  Why 
should  it  ?  "  True,  (he  says  in  his  letters  to  Mr.  Wesley,  and 
other  private  friends)  the  noble,  the  mighty,  and  the  wise  have 
been  to  hear  me."  These  are  also  the  very  words  which  Lady 
Huntingdon  employed  in  her  letters  to  Dr.  Doddridge  at  the 
time.  Was  she  vaiuj  or  flattered,  because  she  rejoiced  that  a 
door  was  opened  for  the  nobility  to  hear  the  Gospel  ?  Besides 
this  new  spnere  did  not  divert  him  from  any  of  his  old  work»  nor 
at  all  change  his  spirit  or  purposes.  At  the  very  crisis  of  his 
elevation,  he  said  to  Mr.  Wesley,  "  My  attachment  to  America 
will  not  permit  me  to  abide  long  in  England.  If  I  formed  sO" 
cieties,  I  should  but  weave  a  Penelopn^s  web.  1  intend,  there- 
fore, to  ffo  about  preaching  the  Gospel  to  every  creature." 
His  preaching  so  frequently  at  St.  Bartholomew's  Church  gave 
great  oflence  to  Dr.  Gibson,  then  Bishop  of  London,  and  in- 
volved Mr.  Bateman,  the  reader,  in  some  unpleasant  litigations 
with  his  Lordship:  for  that  prelate  had  given  strict  mjunc- 
tions  to  the  Clergy  of  his  diocese  to  exclude  all  whom  they 
were  pleased  to  brand  with  Methodism;  which  is  literally 
preachinff  and  zealously  inculcating  the  Articles  they  have 
themselves  subscribed.^ 

The  war  in  Flanders  being  now  over,  the  British  troops  re- 
turned from  the  Continent.  In  a  letter  to  Mr.  Bateman,  Mr. 
Whitefield   says: — 

^'  I  was  much  delighted  to  hear  there  were  bo  many  Christian  8ol« 

*  The  Bishop^s  death  put  an  end  to  the  proceeding  against  Mr.  Bateman, 
who,  notwithstanding  Southey's  eulogy,  appears,  from  nis  warm  altercation  with 
Mr.  Charles  Wesley,  to  have  been  a  very  sincere  friend  to  the  Methodists. 


9i  T^C  LIFE  AND  TIMJES  Of 

diera  among  the  King  s  forces  that  came  from  Flanders.  A  young 
Christian  lady,  tinder  whose  roof  they  were,  while  in  Scotland,  told  me 
that  one  or  other  of  them  were  continually  wrestling  with  God," 

Some  of  these  devout  soldiers  soon  became  known  to  Colonel 
Gumlevy*  and  he  presented  them  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  who 
took  a  great  interest  in  the  welfare  of  those  pious  veterans.  ^^  I 
was  truly  amazed,  (says  the  Countess,)  with  the  devotional  spirit 
of  these  poor  men,  many  of  whom  are  rich  in  faith,  and  heirs  of 
the  kingdom/*  Mr.  Whitcfield  collected  them  toffether,  and 
formed  them  into  a  small  society  at  Edinburgh;  and,  on  his  re- 
moval to  Glasgow,  addressed  the  following  letter  to  the  little 
band^  a  eopy  of  which  be  sent  to  Lady  Huntingdon : — 

**  To  some  devout  Soldiers. 

"  Glasgow,  Sept.  29,  1748. 
**  My  dear  brethren, — It  gave  me  no  snian  satisfaction,  when  I  was 
lately  at  Edinburgh,  to  hear  that  several  of  you  were  enabled  to  be- 
have like  good  soldiers  of  Jesus  Christ  I  rejoice  greatly  that  you  are 
made  partakers  of  his  grace ;  and  I  earnestly  entreat  tbc  Lord  of  all 
Lords  that  you  may  grow  and  increase  in  it  day  by  day.  This  is  tl)e 
Christian's  duty — he  must  forset  the  things  that  are  behind ;  he  must 
press  forward  towards  the  things  which  are  before :  he  must  not  stop 
till  he  arrives  at  the  mark  of  the  prize  of  his  high  calling.  I  trust,  my 
dear  brethren,  you  are  all  thus  minded  ;  and  that  whatever  befals  you, 
you  win,  through  Divine  assistance,  hold  on  and  I. old  out  to  the  end. 
If  I  cafn  be  wjy  way  serviceable  to  you,  be  not  backward  to  send  to 
me.  I  heat  of  otliers  of  your  profession  that  have  lately  enlisted 
under  the  banner  of  the  ever-blessed  Redeemer.  Happy  they !  happy 
*  yott ! — You  have  a  good  Captain,  a  good  cause,  good  armour,  and  an 
exceeding  great  reward.  That  you  may  at  all  times  quit  yourselves 
like  men,  and  be  strong;  that  you  may  fight  the  good  fight  of  faith, 
and  at  length  lay  hold  on  life  eternal,  is  the  hearty  prayer  of,  my 
dear  brethren,  your  affectionate  friend  and  willing  servant,  for  Christ's 
sake,  "  G.  Whitepield." 

*  Tlie  Earl  of  Bath,  who  married  the  eldest  of  tbe  three  daughters  of  Cobnel 
Gvnriey,  introduced  that  gentleman  to  Lady  Huntingdon.  And,  at  her  house, 
through  tbe  preaching  of  Mr.  Whitefield,  and  the  heart-searching  conversation 
of  the  Countess,  who  were  God*s  instrtiments  in  Colonel  Gumley's  conversion, 
the  Lord  met  him  with  the  blessings  of  his  gi-ace.  Mr.  Whitetield  kept  up  a 
correspondence  with  him  when  absent  from  London  ;  for  he  was  ever  careful 
to  keep  alive  the  flame  he  had  lit  up  in  the  hearts  of  his  hearers.  In  one  of 
these  letters  to  the  Colonel,  be  says — "  Good  Lady  Huntingdon  has  an  extract 
of  8  leMer-  fmm  a  soldier,  whicik  will  please  yoa  :  may  the  Lord  Jesu^  add  more 
to  the  Church  of  such  converts." 

The  sisters  and  co-heiressei  of  the  Countess  of  Bath,  were  Letitia,  who 
OMurried  Laneelot  Charlf  s  Lake,  Esq. ;  whose  sons  were,  Warwick,  a  Commis- 
sioner of  the  Stamp  Office,  and  Gerard,  first  Viscount  Lake,  a  distinguished 
officer  in  the  army  ;  and  Mary,  who  married  Francis  Colman,  Esq.,  father  of 
the  ddiar,  and  gnutdibthtr  of  t^e  younger  George  Colman,  both  celebrated  as 
aiVBMRKwnnn. 


ELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON,  96 

About  this  period  Lavington,  the  inveterate  enemy  of  Metho- 
dists and  Moravians,  having  but  lately  been  advanced  to  the 
Bishopric  of  Exeter,  delivered  a  charge  to  the  Clergy  of  his 
Diocese.     Some  persons,  from  what  motive  it  is  difficult  to  say, 
circulated  a  manuscript  copy  of  what  his  Lordship  was  said  to 
have  delivered  at  the  visitation,  which  contained  such  a  declara- 
tion of  doctrines  and  Christian  experience  as  soon  exposed  him 
to  the  stigma  of  Methodism.     This  pretended  charge  was  soon 
after  printed,  and  was  the  means  of  producing  several  pamphlets 
in  reply  and  congratulation.     This  drew  fortn  a  "  declaration  '* 
from   the  angry  prelate,  in  which  he  charged  the  Methodist 
leaders  with  being  the  authors  of  the  fraud.     A  gentleman,  who 
appears  to  have  had  some  influence  with  the  Bishop,  vindicated 
the  character  of  Mr.  Whitefield,  and  informed  his  Lordship  that 
he  knew  nothing  of  the  printing  of  his  pretended  charge,  or  of 
the  pamphlets  occasioned  by  it.     When  the  former  was  sent 
to  Mr.  Whitefield  in  manuscript^  as  the  production  of  the  Bishop 
of  Exeter,  he  immediately  said,  it  could  not  be  his  : — 

''When  I  found  it  printed  (sajs  he)   I   spoke   to  the  officions 
printer,  who  did  it  out  of  his  own  head,  and  blamed  him  7€?y  much. 
When  I  saw  the  pampblec,  I  was  still  more  offended  ;  repeated!}', 
in  several  companies,  I  urged  the  injustice  as  well   as  impradence 
thereof,  and  said  it  would  produce  what  it  did ;  I  mean  a  declaration 
from  his  Lordship,  that  he  was  no  Methodist.     I  am  sorry  be  had 
such  an  occasion  given  him  to  declare  his  aversion  to  what  is  called 
Methodism  ;  and  though  I  think  his  Lordship  in  his  declaiation  hath 
been  somewhat  severe  concerning  some  of  the  Methodist  leaders ; 
yet  I  cannot  blame  him  for  saying  t^at  he  thought  some  qfihem  were 
worse  than  ignorant  and  misguided,  supposing  that  he  had  sufficient 
proof,  that  they  either  caused  to  be  printed,  or  wrote  against  when 
printed,  a  charge  which  his  Lordship  had  never  owned  nor  published."* 

The  Bishop's  "  declaration  "  obtained  a  wide  circulation ;  and 
the  bitter  invectives  against  the  Methodists  were  not  easily  for- 
gotten by  those  who  longed  for  an  opportunity  to  load  them  with 
calumny  and  reproach.  Although  well  assured  that  neither  Mr» 
Whitefield  or  Messrs.  Wesley  bad  any  hand  in  the  publication 
or  circulation  of  the  spurious  charge,  his  Lordship  bad  not  the 
candour  to  acquit  them  of  the  heavy  charges  whicn  he  brought 
against  them.  Jealous  of  the  reputation  of  her  Chaplain^  and 
feeling  the  aspersions  cast  upon  all  the  professors  of  toe  Grospel 
as  most  cruel  and  unjustifiable.  Lady  Hui^ngdon  determined 
to  interpose^  and  wrote  to  his  Lordship  of  Exeter,  demanding 
a  candid  and  lK>nourabIe  renunciation  of  the  charges  coDtainea 
in  his  ^Declaration.''  Her  letter  contained  an  acknowle^ 
ment  on  the  part  of  the  printer,  that  the  publication  of  tne 


96  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

charge  was  solely  his  deed — that  he  had  got  die  manuscript 
from  one  entirely  unconnected  with  the  Methodists — ^and  that 
he  was  ready  to  verify  this  statement  on  oath  when  required. 

The  Bishop  had  the  rudeness  to  suffer  Lady  Huntingdon's 
communication  to  remain  unnoticed,  which  drew  forth  a  most 
spirited  letter  from  her  Ladyship,  announcing  her  determination 
of  making  the  transaction  public,  except  his  Lordship  complied 
with  her  demand,  and  retracted  the  charge  he  had  brought 
against  her  chaplain  and  the  Messrs.  Wesley.  This  had  the 
desired  effect,  and  the  Bishop  sent  the  following  recantation  to 
Lady  Huntingdon,  which  she  caused  to  be  inserted  in  the  lead- 
ing journals  of  the  day  : — 

"  The  Bishop  of  Exeter  having  received  the  most  positive  assurance 
from  the  Countess  of  Huntingdon,  and  other  respectable  persons^  that 
neither  Mr.  Whitefield  nor  Mr.  Wesley,  nor  any  one  in  connexion 
ivith,  or  authorised  by  them,  had  any  concern  in  the  fabrication  and 
publication  of  a  Charge  said  to  be  delivered  by  liim  to  the  Clergy 
of  his  Diocese,  takes  tliis  opportunity  of  apologising  to  ber  Ladyship, 
and  Messrs.  Whitefield  and  Wesley,  for  the  harsh  and  unjust  censures 
ivhich  he  was  led  to  pass  on  them,  from  the  supposition  that  they  were 
in  some  measure  concerned  in,  or  bad  countenanced  tlie  late  imposition 
on  the  public. 

"  The  Bishop  of  Exeter  feels  that  it  is  imperative  on  him  to  make 
this  concession  to  the  Countess  of  Huntingdon  ;  and  requests  her  Lady- 
ship and  Messrs.  Whitefield  and  Wesley  will  accept  his  unfeigned  regret 
at  having  unjusdy  wounded  their  feelings,  and  exposed  tbem  to  the 
odium  of  the  world.** 

Such  was  the  recantation  of  this  wily  prelate ;  but  it  was  only 
in  the  language  of  hypocrisy.  He  had  cast  all  the  odium  of  this 
transaction  on  the  Methodist  leaders,  but  had  not  the  honesty 
publicly  to  apologise  for  the  error  into  which  he  had  been  be- 
trayed, and  the  false,  unjust,  and  injurious  accusations  which  he 
had  made.  This  implacable  enemy  of  all  Methodists  had 
flattered  himself  that  Lady  Huntingdon  would  have  been  fully 
satisfied  with  the  submissive  apology  which  he  wrote,  and  that 
it  would  obtain  a  circulation  ouly  among  the  Methodist  body. 
But  his  Lordship's  indignation  rose  to  its  utmost  height  when 
informed  that  his  humiliating  concessions  were  made  public  by 
the  Countess ;  and  from  that  period  he  became  the  bitter  and 
malignant  reviler  of  her  Ladysniij  and  the  Methodist  leaders. 

With  the  intention  of  giving  Mr.  Whitefield  a  wider  field  of 
usefulness.  Lady  Huntingdon  now  removed  to  London,  and 
opened  her  house  in  Park-street  for  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel ; 
supposing,  as  a  peeress  of  the  realm,  that  she  hadan  indisputable 
right  to  employ  as  her  family  chaplain  those  ministers  of  the 


SELINA^  COUNTESS  OV  HUNTINGDON.  0^ 

Church  whom  she  p«itronisecl.  Early  in  November  Mr.  White- 
field  returned  from  Scotland,  and  on  the  10th  of  that  month 
opened  his  rainistrv  at  her  Ladyship's  residence,  before  a  large 
circle  of  the  nobility,  and  continued  to  preach  there  twice  a 
week  during  the  winter.  "  Good  Lady  Huntingdon,"  says  he, 
"  is  come  to  town,  and  I  am  to  preach  at  her  Ladyship's  house 
twice  a  week  to  the  great  and  noble.  O  that  some  of  them 
may  be  effectually  called,  and  taste  of  the  riches  of  redeeming 
love  !  About  thirty  have  desired  to  come,  and  I  suppose  they 
will  bring  thirty  more.  I  have  heard  of  two  or  three  more  dear 
Christians  among  the  ^eat  ones.  I  know  you  will  pray  the 
Lord  of  all  lords  to  increase  their  number.  Her  Ladyship 
hath  a  ^eat  regard  for  all  those  in  Scotland  who  stand  up  for 
vital  religion.  She  intends  to  send  you  down  the  picture  of  poor 
Aaron,  the  late  negro  preacher." 

The  Earl  of  Cnesterfield,  Lord  Bolingbrokc,  the  Earl  of 
Bath,  Lady  Townshend,  Ljidy  Thanet,  and  many  of  the  nobility 
attached  to  the  Prince  of  Wales's  Court,  were  constant  in  their 
attendance  on  Mr.  Whitefield's  ministrj*.  Lord  St.  John  was 
also  very  frequently  at  Lady  Huntingdon's  house  at  this  time, 
and  was  amongst  the  few  "  great  ones"  who  had  heard  to  profit.* 

**My  last,  (savs  Lady  Huntin^on,  in  one  of  her  letters,  dated 
Feb.  1 749,  and  addressed  to  Mr.  Whitefield,)  mentioned  the  sudden 
illness  of  my  Lord  St.  John.  A  few  days  after  her  Ladyship  wrote  to 
me  in  great  alarm,  and  begged  mc  to  send  some  pious  clerg}niian  to  her 
Lord,  who  was  most  anxious  to  receive  the  sacrament  before  his 
death,  which  was  then  fast  approaching.  Mr.  Bateman,  happening 
to  be  with  me  when  the  letter  came,  went  immediately  to  his  Lord- 
ship, whom  he  found  in  the  last  extremity.  He  grasped  the  hand 
of  Mr.  Bateman,  on  his  approaching  his  bed ;  inquired  for  me,  and 
for  you,  to  whom  he  said  he  was  deeply  indebted.  Mr.  Batemau 
prayed  and  read  some  chapters  from  the  Bible  ;  after  which  his  Lord- 
ship expressed  his  firm  reliance  on  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  renouncing 
every  dependence  on  his  own  merit.  His  last  words  to  Mr.  Bateman 
were — *  To  God  I  commit  myself-^I  feel  how  unworthy  I  am — but 
He  died  to  save  sinners^  and  the  praj/cr  of  my  heart  now  to  Him  i>, 
God  b^  merciful  to  me  a  sinner  !*  Shortly  after  this  his  Lordship  s 
imminent  danger  became  apparent.  At  the  request  of  poor  Lady  St. 
John,  Mr.  Bateman  remained  with  her  expiring  Lord,  who  breathed  his 
last  about  an  hour  after,  whilst  Mr.  Bateman  was  concluding  a  most 
importunate  prayer  on  his  behalf. 

"  This,  my  good  friend,"  continues  the  Countess,  "  is  the  first  fruits 
of  that  plenteous  harvest,  which  I  trust  the  great  Husbandman  will 

*  Hie  Lordship  was  half-hrother  to  Lord  Bolingbroke,  and  had  married  the 
daughter  of  Sir  Richard  Fumess,  Bart.,  who  was  uncle  to  Lady  Huntingdon 
by  his  maniage  with  Lady  Anne  Shirley,  sister  to  Lady  Fanny,  and  daughter  of 
Robert,  first  Eari  of  Ferrars. 

VOL.  I. — H 


98  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

yet  reap  amongst  tlic  nobility  of  our  land.  Thus  tlic  great  Lord  of  the 
harvest  l.rtli  put  honour  on  your  ministry,  and  hath  given  my  heart  an 
cncouramns  token  of  the  utility  of  our  feeble  efforts.  0  that  He  may 
crown  thcni  still  more  abundantly  with  his  blessmg !  Some,  I  trust, 
are  savingly  awakened,  while  many  are  inquiring.  My  Lord  Boling- 
broke  was  much  struck  with  his  brother's  language  in  his  last  moments : 
I  have  not  seen  him  since,  but  am  told  ho  feels  deeply.  0  tliat  tlic 
obdurate  heart  of  this  desperate  Infidel  may  yet  be  shook  to  its  very 
centre — may  his  eyes  be  opened  by  the  illuminating  influence  of 
Divine  truth — and  may  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  be  revealed  to  his 
heart  as  the  hope  of  glory  and  immortal  bliss  hereafter !  I  tremble 
for  his  destiny — he  is  a  singularly  awful  character ;  and  I  am  fearfully 
alarmed  lest  that  Gospel  which  he  so  heartily  despises,  yet  affects  to 
reverence,  should  prove  eventually  the  savour  of  death  unto  death  to 
his  immortal  soul/ 

With  the  family  of  Lord  Bolingbroke  Lady  Huntingdon  lived 
on  terms  of  great  intimacy.  The  impression  made  upon  him 
by  Mr.  Whitefield's  preaching,  may  be  judged  by  his  saying  to 
the  Countess,  "  You  may  command  my  pen  when  you  will :  it 
shall  be  drawn  in  your  service.  For,  admitting  the  Bible  to  be 
true,  I  shall  have  little  apprehension  of  maintaining  the  doc- 
trines of  predestination  and  grace,  against  all  your  revilers." 
His  Lordship's  sister,  Lady  Luxborougli,  the  friend  and  corre- 
spondent of  Shenstone  the  poet,  and  his  sister-in-law,  Lady 
St.  John,  were  amongst  her  most  intimate  friends.  With  them 
were  associated  Lady  Monson,  daughter  of  the  first  Lord  Rock- 
ingham, and  Anne,  relict  of  Lewis  Watson,  Earl  of  Rockingham, 
all  of  whom  were  very  frequent  in  their  attendance  on  Mr. 
Whitefield's  ministry  whenever  he  preached  at  Lady  Hunting- 
don's Lady  Rockingham  was  a  woman  of  general  knowledge, 
of  infinite  wit  and  pleasantry,  of  a  delightful  temper,  and 
with  a  mind  most  disinterested.  She  was  cousin-german  to 
Lady  Huntingdon  and  niece  to  Lady  Fanny  Shirley.  A  few 
years  after  the  decease  of  Lord  Rockmgham  she  became  the 
third  wife  of  Frances  North,  first  Earl  of  Guildford,  by  which 
marriage  he  acquired  the  noble  seat  of  Waldershare,  near 
Dover,  and  a  large  surrounding  estate  of  great  value  :  her  Lady- 
ship possessed  considerable  influence  in  the  higher  circles,  and 
had  an  extensive  acquaintance  with  persons  of  genius  in  her 
day.  She  was  often  at  Court,  and  lost  no  opportunity  of  recom- 
mending religion  to  the  notice  of  the  great 

Mr.  Whitefield's  lectures  to  the  "  brilliant  circle"  at  Lady 
Huntingdon's  were  evidently  as  faithful  as  they  were  eloquent. 
The  well-known  Countess  of  SuflFolk  found  them  so.  Lady 
Rockingham  prevailed  on  Lady  Huntingdon  to  admit  this 
beauty  to  hear  her  chaplain ;  he,  however,  luiew  nothing  of  her 


SELINA9  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  &d 

presence :  he  drew  his  bow  at  a  venture,  but  every  arrow 
seemed  aimed  at  her.  She  just  managed  to  sit  out  tlie  service 
in  silence,  and  when  Mr.  Whitefield  retired  she  flew  into  a  vio- 
lent passion,  abused  Lady  Huntingdon  to  her  face,  and  de- 
nounced the  sermon  as  a  deliberate  attack  on  herself.  In  vain 
her  sister-in-law.  Lady  Betty  Germain,  tried  to  appease  the 
beautiful  furv,  or  to  explain  her  mistake — in  vain  old  Lady 
Eleanor  Bertie  and  the  Duchess  Dowager  of  Ancaster,  both 
relatives  of  Lady  Suffolk,  commanded  her  silence :  she  main- 
tained that  she  had  been  insulted.  She  was  compelled,  how- 
ever, by  her  relatives  who  were  present,  to  apologize  to  Lady 
Huntingdon :  having  done  this  with  a  bad  grace,  the  mortified 
beauty  left  the  place,  to  return  no  more."^ 

Just  about  this  period  Lord  Chesterfield,  who  had  been  dis- 
missed frooi  the  situation  of  Lord  High  Steward,  with  marks  of 
strong  resentment,  was  admitted  into  the  Cabinet,  very  much 
against  tlie  will  of  the  King,  who  had  long  considered  hira  as  a 
personal  enenay.  He  had  married  the  King's  sister,  the  natural 
daughter  of  George  L,  and  having  served  his  Majesty  with 
steadiness  for  many  years,  seemed  to  have  a  right  to  expect 
particular  favours,  but  in  this  he  was  disappointed.  The  secret 
cause  of  this  disappointment  was  his  benaviour  towards  the 
Queen  and  Lady  SuJfifolk,  whidi  Lady  Huntingdon  often  lanaented* 

*'*  I  fear  (says  her  Ladyship)  that  neither  influenee  nor  offers  can 
ever  recall  Lord  Chesterfield  from  the  line  of  conduct  he  has  adopted 
towards  the  Queen  and  Lady  Suffolk. t     I  wish  it  were  otherwise ; 

•  Henrierta.  Countess  of  Suffolk,  sister  to  tbe  first  Earl  of  Buckinghamshire^ 
a  few  years  after  the  death  of  Lord  Suffolk,  married  the  Hon.  Geoi^e  Berkeley, 
a  son  of  the  second  Earl  Berkeley,  whom  she  survived  more  than  twenty  years. 
She  had  been  a  widow  only  a  short  time,  and  had  lately  lost  her  only  son. 
Lord  Saff(^,  when  she  was  invited  to  Lady  Huntingdon's  to  hear  Mr.  White- 
field.  She  lived  principally  at  Marble- Hill,  Twickenham,  and  was  a  well- 
known  acquaintance  of  Pope,  the  poet,  under  the  name  of "  Mrs  Howard." 
She  was  in  much  favour  with  George  II.,  an  intiuence  which  is  supposed  to 
have  contributed  to  the  grant  of  ^er  mother's  peerdge.  Having  ingratiated 
herself  into  the  favour  of  Qtieen  Caroline,  then  Electoral  Princess,  she  accom- 
panied her  to  England,  end  became  her  bed-chamber-woman.  If  we  were  to 
draw  an  estimate  of  the  understanding  an  1  character  of  Lady  Suffolk  from  the 
representations  of  Pope,  Swift,  and  Gay,  during  the  time  of  her  favour,  we 
might  suppose  that  ^he  possessed  every  accomplishment  and  good  quality 
which  were  ever  the  lot  of  a  woman.  The  real  truth  is,  she  Mras  more  remark, 
^le  for  beauty  than  for  understanding,  and  the  passion  which  the  King  enter- 
tttned  for  her,  was  rather  derived  from  chance,  thaa  from  any  combination  of 
those  transcendant  qualities  which  Pope  and  Swift  ascribea  to  their  court- 
diVinity.  ^e  lived  to  an  advanced  age,  not  dying  till  1 767.  During  her  last 
illness  Lady  Huntingdon  made  some  efforts  to  see  her,  but  the  mortified  Lady 
Suffolk  carried  her  resentment  to  the  grave,  and  would  never  admit  her 
Ladyship. 

f  l^ord  Chesterfield  paid  his  court  (according  to  those  maxims  and  false  pre. 
tensions  to  superior  penetration  which  cfaaiacterised  him)  to  Lady  Suffdk, 

H  2 


jift  mz  i-irz  ^n  nrrr  ir 


/I     ^.''  »r,/t    ;.';oiT   i^t-  lioic?   "riiisi    itsiomz.  "D    lu 

-«•*     "■■•::    lA    II*    tiir^Tic   xiEsrnms   Tmrsrofr   us-  "eiianr-aiiau    'vtucn. 

^im#o  ^r^  T^l  ir'  lun.  ifi  if  ^rm  BtiiiiurirniEZL  jiml  ^omi!  Jiiuaa^  ^w^f 
iv^v^-  ^snnrinnati"  liar  lie  r*!*:^!  uul  ju^:?  if  Jii*  jmvtuur  nsr  je  saesife^ 
.W   r*    Ii*Kr  .T^nnnicjiiL ' 

ITiA  .VCsniib-  ir  L.:ciiaii  lo'r  ir^eti  ji  Zujinuni  m  useni 
ni*  yfiitr'xsunptavcn  iiine*  -  ha^jur  :eea  ■•tecteii  me  ic  ;iitf  ^sikch 
':*rAfc^  ypipT^  *iuvjt^=n7^vj  rscime^  oj  lil  "iie  P'ir!iamiHii&  rf  Great 
i<rt;fin  -tnr;*  --u*  inuic  Htf  was?  ii.-*^:incanu*ii  7v  ie  )£ip» 
-•jiiAn***?*.  "ii^in  .n  I  ""iry  ijeciiminr  san?  or  iueiitiu  She  «3»  a 
iU**\(xf\ti^r  \f  Sr  T!ii:iiiaa>  Nx'&:Is:'ii-.  Bsut—  it  ^fmnzLT^  in  tne 
'Vvmf  •  '*{  A/i'^niWTL-  iziL  rrc:  iier  rareac^*.  had  .mbuK«i  diuge 
j)rn#»/r/U»<»  \i  ^*dis^.a  '»!1j:c  beciinse  i*:  iniTupnhai  31  jfier  life.* 

.•fi^  i/vf  -rt  ■'.«»  'Vwwn .  isid  if  :jijsc  -rii?  iLTBti  dm*  :fiis  ^iae«x  aever  inled  b» 
<y>#>^vi^  li^  'B^  r>\nt  d*^«t^rieift  3  &  mBarsioie  jiscmci*.  He  ami.  hamf 
«*/v««f^  -'.)#  V.«r  ^r    yj'..'-Kar7  :c  ?iao±.  laii  la  jcaainoieac  liwi  itWB  mmiB  in. 

V/  V4(i>^,i«*  4tif1  Maaic^xur  j<ir  ^;r  ier  •rrintrir^ace.  'i«  3aa  dw  anprodemne  ov 
i*-*^^  4  #^r/  /  >«ir  v>  r^4«lT  Siifnik  :  tbf  v>jtwa  vi»  Jiajcm;<i  oit  due  encunr. 
«»]«r.<*/>  4awi  .fix  «o^^»uic.iu»nc  'iiii  ii:c  air^  piamf.  A:  Aiii;dii:r  ane  &•»  hmi 
if«*/,iM'-'r.-.,f  >4*  >i.'^n  V,  *r,*TU£  z>,  ^e  SLnir  I'or  44:me  ^inoH  a,vjiir:  che  Vhupcn 
y..^,0^A     vir  ^/jT/.v  ,r.     4  ?^-v  iacT*  afirtwAi'iso  riccijeirtinir  Iter  prcause.-»^ 

, .  -'^««*  .vf^  ^ny  ''."•.^^f^ruj^ui  r»piie*L  :iur  fe<r  Mj;i»n-  atwd  otiC  ziw  lumclf 
>%4»  '/ .«ti>i«»  f*-,*'  r^iit?  <*ii''.ik  2;ii'i  «pa:ken  to  clre  Khiir  T!ie  Qonui  iciMfe  bo 
/-.^ly  y»i»  -^  i##-.i;/  •"•*  K.'-z.  v.'>i  iim  *he  s*i  icn«  pro«&i:wd  o>  oevmioa  s 
v'«i;  ••/.•»An*»-»r  V,  n  *  Vfo^t^-^rx.  bet  :t  tvas  r^tiie**^  b<v,ius*<  Li>ri  Otesterfield 
fmA  ^lym^  .^''f^'<^0^  \p^ '':jiff.  *fli»  l-.a^  h<*?a  AEr^iparrf'i  by  LoifT  Safcik.  The 
J^:r'/.  wVf  >•*  "Hy*  ^*-i*r7**i  zr*at  <!cronini  witi  :bc  Q»^«n,  »nd  w**  T«rr  an. 
«;i  '.'/  vr  \a:^  .t  \'\'/yA^f,  tfiai  ii>i  UTo;:h:e  in^ertrreri,  was  e.xcrvawiT  «£*. 
^.t>^t*A,  V/'A  »,fA  f»f4  ^rn^^rjtrfiffi/i  and  La#?7  j'tift^ik  :  tb<  ccc^eqnreoe  was 
r«tr  ■•  4  «V.r*  '.«w^  n^r  f>w!7«Kip  :vent  tO  Borh  for  bcr  health,  sod  rvtnrncd  no 
^)^^A  -/^  < /^,f*  ,  t  f^4fpT^^Ui  viA  'iumu.-iM  frcm  hii  office,  azid  iMprrr  heard 
r«>A  «A-««//r.  i^.',(  » v/^  /»3irrt  >t^ff/F«:  hU  rieath,  vhen  he  was  inf onned  br  Lord 
^rff-^A^  *A*f  ht^  ^u^fA^^  wx*  */wir,^  */f  h'lA  having  offcrnded  the  Queen  bv  paving 

*7a*  »'a*  *4  h^f  /^frtftff^nt  v>f»,  Jyjfd  Ri>bert  Kcr,  had  <o  riolent  an  cfiect 
ir^/n  »AA  Vf»r/ Kt/^r>«c  /,/  lyff,h;ari,  ».4  ti*izx\y  to  overturn  her  reason  and  ever 
«rMf  p/f  tA«»^A  A  #r.;9/f^  //f  u,t  U^irhtAy  uprm  her  mind.  He  was  a  Captain  in 
tf,^  ^,f*hi  mf*A  \(*\\*A  n*  »>,<•  \Mti\f.iA  ^'Jiiil'^en,  in  April,  1746.  Her  Ladyship 
nm^  'fi*  (r*-mft'f  fft  A  kf»>f  fr//r#»  >M^  ftUtfrr.ir»>Iaw,  Ladj  Mary  Hamilton,  to  Lady 
hntffttf^Affh,  ft-t^ffttittt^ttAHtfi  IjtAy  lyifhi^iri  to  the  particular  notice  of  the 
/  /ffftiffrnt  "  fUr  milAi^Utmn  (*Hyn  l^dy  .NJary;  leem  to  prey  so  deeply  on 
ht-t  fhtttA,  f  hfff  \  nth  y^t\H'Um\\y  afraid  nf  h«;r  }(tsin%  her  reason.  I  have  done 
n\\  fh  Ui'f  uff^^f  Ut  titun*-  h*'r  irotn  thin  ntate  of  dejection;  and  I  think 
t4f  '^hi*t.hhSA  mtiMntUyt  ^)it^u\Mi  in  KdinburKh,  was  of  signal  service  to  her 
im*\-i*hi\i  Hh«-  U  •^f  wmU  aifa/'hH  to  your  Ladyship,  that  I  have  the  most 
mfiffititf*-  hopt-^  lUitl  iUp  \,*ttt\  MTill  frnM'iouftlv  Mesh  your  society  and  converse  to 
hhf  ittwpU'U'  t^nlotnl'ntu.  'l\if  Marniiiii  in  most  painfully  anxious  for  her 
fhtnttfi,  ttuA  U'**\n  \tvfnw%iU'i\  ymi  will  Inr  the  irieanti,  under  God,  of  effecting  a 
Uf/nf  tUHin^t*  )m  hft  «pir)l«.  1  think  vou  will  find  his  Lordship  much  increased 
\ii  nil  ¥9p¥iUit^titn\  bfu/whrdgn  of  divine  things/* 


SELINAy  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDOX.  101 

Her  Ladyship  was  one  of  those  pious  females  of  rank  and  in- 
fluence  who  united  with  the  Countess  of  Leven,  Lady  Balgonie, 
I^dy  Frances  Gardiner,  Lady  Jane  Nimmo,  and  Lady  Mai-y 
Hamilton,*  in  eslablishing  a  meeting  for  prayer  and  reading 
the  Scriptures,  to  be  hela  alternately  at  each  other's  houses, 
which  continued  to  be  well  attended,  and  singularly  useful  for 
many  years.  It  was  strictly  confined  to  a  very  select  circle  of 
women  in  high  life,  many  of  whom  were  ornaments  to  the 
Christian  Church,  and  adorned  the  doctrine  which  they  pro^ 
fessed  by  a  life  of  holiness  and  deadness  to  the  present  evil 
world.  Many  years  after,  the  then  Countess  of  Northesk  and 
Hopetown,  daughters  to  Lord  and  Lady  Leven,  the  Countess  of 
Buchan,  Lady  Maxwell,  Lady  Glenorchy,  Wilhelmina  Countess 
of  Leven  (formerly  Lady  Balgonie,)  with  her  excellent  sisters, 
Lady  Ruthven  and  Lady  Banff,  Lady  Henrietta  Hope,  and 
Sophia  Countess  of  Hadaington,  were  valuable  members  of  this 
select  band.  These  have  all  long  since  joined  the  general 
assembly  and  church  of  the  redeemed  from  amongst  men,  and 
are  now  uniting  in  ascriptions  of  praise  to  Him  who  hath 
redeemed  them  to  God  by  His  blood. 

Lady  Huntingdon's  acquaintance  with  the  Scotch  nobility  was 
much  mcreased  by  the  introduction,  through  the  Lothian  family, 
of  several  of  the  representative  peers,  most  of  whom  were  induced 
to  attend  the  ministry  of  Mr.  Whitefield  at  her  Ladyship's 
house.  Amongst  these,  the  Countess  particularly  notices 
Archibald,  Duke  of  Argyle,  cousin  to  the  Marquis  of  Lothian, 
the  Earl  of  Aberdeen,  Earl  of  Lauderdale,  and  Earl  of  Hyndford, 
who  had  just  then  returned  to  England,  after  many  years'  ab- 
sence, having  been  appointed  Envoy  Extraordinary  to  the  King 
of  Prussia,  from  whose  Court  he  proceeded,  in  the  same  character, 
to  the  Emperor  of  Russia ;  his  Lordship's  mother,  the  Dowager 
Lady  Hyndford,  who  was  the  intimate  friend  of  Lady  Hunting- 
don, the  Duchess  of  Somerset,  and  the  Marquis  of  Tweeddale, 
also  a  representative  Peer  and  Secretary  of  State  for  Scotland, 

*  Lady  Mary  Hamilton  was  one  of  those  persons  in  high  life  who  attended 
the  ministry  of  Mr.  Whitefield  when  he  visited  Scotland,  and  was  a  leading 
character  in  the  circles  in  Edinburgh.  She  was  the  youngest  daughter  of  the 
Marquis  of  Lothian,  and  sister  to  WUliam,  third  Marquis,  the  Countess  of  Home, 
Lady  Cranstown,  and  Lady  Ross.  Her  Ladyship's  mother  was  daughter  of 
Archibald  Campbell,  the  unfortunate  Earl  of  Argvle,  who  was  beheaded  in 
1685.  She  had  married  Alexander  Hamilton,  of  Ballincrieff,  Member  of  Parlia- 
ment for  the  county  of  Linlithgow,  Post-master-general  of  Scotland,  and  repre- 
sentative of  the  family  of  Innerwick.  Mr.  Hamilton  was  very  partial  to  the 
preaching  of  Mr.  Whitefield,  and  always  received  him  at  his  house  with  every 
ipark  of  polite  attention.  To  the  period  of  her  death,  in  1768,  Lady  Mary  wast 
the  constant  correspondent  of  Mr.  Whitefield. 


102  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

were  all  very  frequently  at  Lady  Huntingdon's  about  this  period. 
The  Marchioness  was  youngest  daughter  of  John  last  Earl  of 
Granville,  and  sister  to  Lady  Louisa  Carteret,  who  married  the 
Viscount  Weymouth,  cousin  to  the  Duchess  of  Somerset,  by 
whom  they  were  introduced  to  Lady  Huntingdon. 

The  following  letter  from  Lady  Huntingdon  to  Dr.  Dod- 
dridge, written  at  this  time,  will  give  some  idea  of  the  success 
of  the  Gospel  among  the  "great  ones"  who  frequented  her 
Ladyship's  circle : — 

'*  London,  1 748. 

*'  My  being  ill  has  interfered  witli  mv  answering  yours ;  and  with  it 
mme  interruptions  arose  wbicli  you  would,  I  know^bc  much  pleased  with. 
Religion  was,  I  believe,  never  so  much  tlic  subject  of  conversation  as 
now.  Some  of  the  great  of  this  world  hear  with  me  the  Gospel 
patiently ;  and  thus  much  seed  is  sown  by  Mr.  Whitefield's  preachins:, 
and  I  need  not  tell  you,  some  of  the  best.  Oh !  that  it  may  fall  m 
good  ground,  and  bring  forth  fruit  abundantly.  I  am  sorry  to  find  that 
you  are  still  interrupted  by  the  Moravians  :  many  good  souls  are  among 
them,  and,  by-and-by,  our  Lord  will  separate  them  from  the  cha£ 
I  have  sent  Christian  salutations  to  the  Count  Zinzcndorif,  and  expect 
to  see  him.  If  the  Lord  will  allow  me,  I  expect  to  speak  a  word  in 
the  spirit  of  love  and  meekness,  but  with  plainness  to  him,  upon  many 
points  he  establishes  as  fixed,  on  wliich,  in  some  particulare,  the  Scrip- 
ture is  silent ;  and  in  many  others,  it  is  absolutely  contrary  to  most 
of  their  avowed  principles.  A  Hymn-book  is  lately  published  by 
them,  which  to  speak  as  I  feel  towards  them  in  love,  can  be  thought 
of  no  other  way  but  as  the  product  of  tlie  most  wild  enthusiasts  upon 
the  earth. 

"  I  had  the  pleasure,  yesterday,  of  Mr.  Gibbon's  and  Mr.  Crutten* 
den's  company,  with  that  of  Mr.  Gifford,  to  dine  with  me.  Lord 
Lothian  and  Lady  Frances  Gardiner  gave  them  the  meeting,  and.  we 
had  truly  a  most  primitive  and  heavenly  day ;  our  hearts  and  voices 
praised  the  Lord — prayed  to  Him,  and  talked  of  Him.  I  had  another 
lady  present,  whose  face,  since  I  saw  you  last,  is  turned  Zionwards. 
Of  the  honourable  women,  I  trust  there  will  be  not  a  few ;  patience 
shall  have  its  proper  work  ;  and  if  we  love  our  Lord,  we  must  be 
tender  over  his  lambs,  and  lead  those  gently  who  yet  appear  not  to  be 
so.  I  trust  he  will  assist  us  to  keep  fanning  the  flame  in  every  heart : 
this,  my  friend,  is  our  joyful  task  for  the  best  Master  we  can  ser^'e, 
either  in  time  or  eternity.  Do  not  let  our  bonds  hang  down  ;  we  must 
wrestle  for  ourselves,  and  for  all  dead  in  their  sins,  till  the  day  break, 
and  the  shadows  of  time  flee  away.  Manv  will  be  our  attacks  from 
a  worid  lying  in  the  way  of  the  Wicked  One,  from  our  evil  hearts, 
and  the  infirmity  of  our  flesh  ;  but  let  us  remember  we  know  in  whom 
we  believe,  and  that  the  Captain  that  leads  us  is  nothing  less  than  an 
Almighty  Cooqueror  over  all  those,  and  that  notliing  is  too  hard  for 


SELIKAj   COUNTESS  OF   HUNTINGDON.  103 

Him.     Remember,  it  will  soon  be  over  ;  and  let  us  witbstand,  for  a 
moment  eyeing  the  reeompence  of  reward. 

"  My  kind  respects  attend  Mr,  Doddridge.  My  family  are  obliged 
by  your  kind  inquiries.  I  am.  Sir,  beseeching  your  constant  prayers, 
your  most  sincere  and  affectionate  friend, 

"S.  Huntingdon." 

Whilst  Lady  Huntingdon  thus  sought  to  promote  the  spiri- 
tual interests  of  the  rich  and  the  noble,  she  was  not  unmindful 
of  those  of  her  more  humble  neighbours ;  to  them  her  house 
was  constantly  open,  that  they  might  be  enriched  with  that 
"  faith  which  comes  by  hearing,  and  which  is  the  substance  of 
things  hoped  for,  the  evidence  of  things  not  seen," — a  practice 
whicli  was  reffularly  continued  for  several  years.  On  the  week- 
days her  kitchen  was  filled  with  the  poor  of  the  flock,  for  whom 
she  provided  suitable  instruction ;  and  on  the  Sabbath  the  rich 
and  the  noble  were  invited  to  spend  the  evening  in  her  drawing- 
rooms,  where  Mr.  Whitefield  and  other  eminent  ministers  of 
Christ  proclaimed  all  the  words  of  this  life,  and  with  eloquence 
which  was  exceeded  only  by  their  faithfulness  and  affection. 
The  following  anecdote,  communicated  by  Lady  Huntingdon 
to  the  late  Mr.  Barry,  R.A.,  proves  that  Mr.  Whitefield  had 
other  trophies  besides  the  rich  and  noble,  who  had  escaped 
eternal  death  through  the  blood  and  righteousness  of  the  Son 
of  God.  Some  ladies  called  one  Saturday  morning  to  pay  a 
visit  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  and  during  the  visit  her  Ladyship 
inquired  of  tfiem  if  they  had  ever  heard  Mr.  Whitefield  preach? 
Upon  being  answered  in  the  negative,  she  said,  "  I  wish  you 
would  hear  him  ;  he  is  to  preach  to-morrow  evening.*'  They 
promised  her  Ladyship  they  would  certainly  attend — they  were 
BS  good  as  their  word  :  and  upon  calling  on  the  Monday  mom* 
ing  on  Lady  Huntingdon,  she  anxiously  enquired  if  they  had 
heard  Mr.  Whitefield  on  the  previous  evening,  and  how  they 
liked  him  ?  The  reply  was  "  O  my  Lady,  of  all  the  preachers 
we  ever  heard  he  is  the  most  strange  and  unaccountable. 
Among  other  preposterous  things  (would  your  Ladyship  believe 
it,)  he  declared  that  Jesus  Christ  was  so  willing  to  receive  sin- 
ners that  he  did  not  object  to  receive  even  the  devil's  cast'^ 
aways  I  Now,  my  Lady,  did  you  ever  bear  of  such  a  thinff  sinoe 
you  were  born  ?*'  To  which  her  Ladyship  made  the  following 
reply :  ^'  There  is  something,  I  acknowledge,  a  little  singular 
in  the  invitation,  and  I  do  not  recollect  to  hare  ever  met  with  it 
before ;  but  as  Mr.  Whitefield  is  below  in  the  parlour,  we  will 
have  him  up,  and  let  him  answer  for  himself."  Upon  his  en-* 
tering  the  drawing-room,  Lady  Huntingdon  said,  "  Mr.  White* 
field,  these  ladies  hare  been  preferring  a  Y6ry  heavy  charge 


104  THE   LIFE   AND  TIMES   OF 

against  you,  and  I  thought  it  best  that  you  should  come  up  and 
defend  yourself :  they  say,  that  in  your  sermon  last  evening, 
speaking  of  the  willingness  of  Jesus  Christ  to  receive  sinners, 
you  expressed  yourself  in  the  following  terms — *  So  ready 
IS  Christ  to  receive  sinners  who  come  to  Him,  that  he  is  will- 
ing to  receive  the  devil's  castaways."     Mr.  Whitefield  imme- 
diately replied,  "  I  certainly,  my  Lady,  must  plead  guilty  to 
the  charge :  whether  I  did  what  was  right  or  otherwise,  your 
Ladyship  shall  judge  from  the  following  circumstance.     Did 
your  Ladyship  notice,  about  half  an  hour  ago,  a  very  modest 
single  rap    at  the  door  ?     It  was  given  by  a  poor  miserable 
looKing,  aged  female,  who  requested  to  speak  with  me.    I  de- 
sired her  to  be  shown  into  the   parlour,  when  she  accosted  me 
in  the  following  manner : — '  I  believe.  Sir,  you  preached  last 
evening  at  such  a  chapel?'     'Yes,  I  did.'    *Ali,    Sir,  I  was 
accidentally  passing  the  door  of  that  chapel,  and  hearing  the 
voice  of  some  one  preachmg,  I  did  what  I  have  never  been  in 
the  habit  of  doing — I  went   in ;  and  one  of  the  first  things  I 
heard  you  say  was,  that  Jesus  Christ  was  so  willing  to  receive 
sinners,  that  he  did  not  object  to  receiving  the  devil's  cast- 
aways.    Now,  Sir,   I  have  been  on  the  town  for  many  years, 
and  am  so  worn  out  in  his  service^  that  I  think  I  may  with  truth 
be  called  one  of  the  devil's  castaways.     Do  you  think.  Sir,  that 
Jesus  Christ  would  receive  me  ?'  *  I  (said  Mr.  vVhitefield)  assured 
her  there  was  notadoubt  of  it,  if  she  was  butwillingto  goto  Him."* 
From  the  sequel,  it  appeared  that  this  was  the  case,  and  that  it 
ended  in  the  sound  conversion  of  this  poor  creature ;  and  Lady 
Huntingdon  was  assured,  from  most  respectable  authority,  that 
the  woman  left  a  very  channing  testimony  behind  her,  that, 
though  her  sins  had  been  of  a  crimson  hue  the  atoning  blood  of 
Christ  had  washed  them  white  as  snow. 

That  would-be  wit  and  affected  woman,  Lady  Townshend,* 
was  one  of  Mr.  Whitefield's  earliest  and  most  strenuous  ad- 
mirers ;  she  was  always  running  from  one  extreme  to  another,  and 

*  Lady  Townshend's  father,  Edward  Harrison,  Esq.,  of  Balls,  in  the  county 
of  Hertford,  had  fonnerly  been  Governor  of  Fort  St  George,  in  the  East  In- 
dies ;  she  \\hs  sole  heir  to  his  immense  fortune  -.  her  eldest  son,  the  first  Mar- 
quis Tox^Tishend,  who  had  served  at  the  battles  of  Dettin^en,  Fontenoy,  and 
Culloden,  and  also  at  the  remarkable  siege  of  Quebec,  which  town  surrendered 
into  his  hands  as  commander-in-chief,  after  the  fatal  death  of  Wolfe,  became 
nearly  allied  to  Lady  Huntingdon  by  his  marriage  with  Lady  Charlotte  Comp- 
ton,  only  surviving  issue  of  James,  Earl  of  Northampton,  by  Elizabeth  Shirley, 
who  was  in  her  own  right  Baroness  Ferrars,  of  Chartley ;  her  second  son, 
Charles  Townshend,  was  celebrated  for  his  brilliant  talents,  by  which  he  dis- 
tinguished  himself  in  a  most  eminent  degree,  both  in  the  Senate  and  Cabinet ; 
perhaps  there  never  arose,  in  any  country,  a  man  of  more  pointed  and  finished 
wit  {  and  (where  his  passions  wei^  not  concerned)  of  a  more  refined^  exquisite^ 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OP  HUNTINGDON,  105  ' 

always  extravagant  in  ideas  and  conduct — she  changed  about 
from  one  opinion  to  another  with  singular  velocity. 

"  Have  you  heard  (says  Horace  Walpole)  the  great  loss  the  Church 
of  England  has  had  ?  It  is  not  avowed,  hut  hear  the  evidence  and 
judge:  On  Sunday  last  as  George  Selwyn  was  strolling  home  to 
dinner  at  half  an  hour  after  four,  he  saw  my  Lady  Townshend's  coach 
stop  at  Carracioli*s  chapel — he  watched — ^saw  her  go  in — ^her  footman 
laughed — he  followed ;  she  went  up  to  the  altar,  a  woman  brought 
her  a  cushion — she  knelt,  crossed  herself,  and  prayed  :  he  stole  up  and 
knelt  by  her — conceive  her  face,  if  you  can,  when  she  turned  and 
found  him  close  to  her — in  his  most  demure  voice,  he  said,  *  Pray, 
Madam,  how  long  has  your  ladyship  left  the  pale  of  our  Church  ?' 
She  looked  furies,  and  made  no  answer.  Next  day  he  went  to  her, 
and  she  turned  it  off  upon  curiosity ;  but  is  an3rthing  more  natural  ? — 
no :  she  certainly  means  to  go  armed  with  every  viaticum,  the  Church 
of  England  in  one  hand,  Methodism  in  the  other,  and  the  Host  in  her 
mouth  r 

Lady  Townshend  was  attacked  with  severe  illness,  and  her 
life  was  considered  in  danger ;  Lady  Huntingdon,  who  was  fre- 
quent in  her  attendance,  informed  Mr.  Whitefield  of  her  state, 
and,  as  she  professed  to  be  under  serious  impressions  at  times, 
he  wisely  considered  that  a  letter  at  such  a  moment  might  be 
attended  with  lasting  benefit : — 

"  London,  Nov.  19,  1748. 
"  Honoured  Madam, — When  I  was  lately  in  Scodand,  Colonel 
Gumley  wrote  me  word,  that  your  Ladyship  was  pleased  to  desire  my 
poor  prayers.  Before  his  writing,  tliey  had  been  put  up  to  the  throne 
of  grace  in  behalf  of  your  Ladyship  very  frequently,  and  I  would  then 
have  written  to  you,  hdd  I  not  feared  it  would  have  been  making  too 
free.  Yesterday,  good  Lady  Huntingdon  informed  me  that  your  Lady- 
ship was  ill ;  had  I  judged  it  proper,  I  would  have  waited  upon  you 
this  morning ;  but  I  was  cautious  of  intruding.  However,  the  regard 
I  bear  to  your  Ladyship  constrains  mc  to  inform  you,  that  my  heart's 
desire  and  prayer  to  God  is,  that  this  sickness  may  not  be  unto  death, 
but  to  his  glory,  and  the  present  and  eternal  good  of  your  better  part^ 
your  precious  and  immortal  soul.  This,  no  doubt,  is  the  end  of  afflic- 
tions— God's  name  and  nature  is  Love  ,  he  cannot,  therefore,  chastise 
us  for  any  other  purpose,  than  that  we  may  be  made  partakers  of  his 
holiness.  Every  cross  and  disappointment,  every  degree  of  pain, 
brings  this  important  call  witli  it — *  My  son,  my  daughter,  give  me  thy 
heart,'  0  that  your  Ladyship's  soul  may  echo  back — *  My  heart,  Lord 
Jesus,  will  I  give.'     0  that  from  a  feeling,  spiritual,  abiding  sense  of 

and  penetrating  judgment ;  but  although  a  man  of  genius,  he  appears  to  have 
been  rather  more  fit  for  literary  than  poUtical  attainments,  and  from  the  versa- 
tility of  his  political  conduct  he  acquired  the  nick-name  of^'  The  weathercock.** 
He  died  in  1767,  and  his  brother,  the  Marquis  Townshend,  survived  him 
exactly  forty  years ;  both  through  life  maintained  a  steady  friendship  for  Lady 
Huntingdon,  who  outlived  their  eccentric  mother  only  a  few  years* 


106  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

the  vanity  and  emptiness  of  all  created  good,  you  may,  in  a  holy  resent* 
mcnt,  cry  out — 

'  Be  gone,  vain  world,  my  heart  resign. 
For  I  must  be  no  longer  thine : 
A  nobler,  a  diviner  guest, 
Now  claims  possession  of  my  breast  !* 

^  Then,  and  not  till  then,  your  Ladyship's  mind  will  be  at  unity  with 
itself — then,  and  not  till  then,  will  your  Ladyship,  upon  truly  rational 
principles,  with  cheerfulness  wait  for  the  approach  of  death,  and  the 
coming  of  the  Lord  from  heaven.  It  is  faith  in  Jesus,  a  true  and  living 
faith  in  the  Son  of  God,  that  can  alone  bring  present,  real  peace,  and 
lay  a  solid  foundation  for  future  and  eternal  comfort.  I  cannot  wish 
your  Ladyship  any  thing  greater,  any  thing  more  noble,  than  a  lai^ 
sharo  of  this  precious  faith ;  and  a  large,  yea,  yery  laree  share  in  the 
glorious  Redeemer,  ready  to  give  to  all  that  sincerely  ask  for  and  seek 
after  it  He  waits  to  be  gracious — He  giveth  liberally — He  upbraideth 
not.  When,  like  Noah*8  dove,  we  have  been  wandering  about  in  a 
fruitless  search  after  happiness,  and  have  found  no  rest  for  the  soles  of 
our  feet,  he  is  ready  to  reach  out  his  merciful  hand,  and  receive  us 
into  his  ark.  His  hand,  honoured  Madam,  is  he  reaching  out  to  you. 
May  you  be  constrained  to  give  your  heart  entirely  to  him,  and  thereby 
enter  into  that  rest  which  remains  for  the  happy,  though  despised 
people  of  God.  But  whither  am  I  going  ? — I  forget  that  your  Lady- 
ship is  indisposed,  and  I  almost  a  stranger  to  you  :  I  will  only  maxe 
this  apology — '  the  love  of  Jesus  constrains  me.*  Hoping,  therefore, 
your  ladyship  will  excuse  the  freedom  I  have  here  taken,  I  beg  leave 
to  subscribe  myself*  honoured  Madam,  your  Ladyship's  most  obliged 
humble  servant,  "  G.  Whitbfibld. 

Some  years  before  her  death,  which  took  place  in  1788, 
L#ady  Townshend  was  again  under  serious  concern  for  her 
eternal  interests ;  several  letters  passed  between  her  and  Lady 
Huntingdon,  only  one  of  which  has  been  rescued  from  oblivion, 

•  Apropos  of  Lady  Townshend,  we  may  here  observe  that  Horace  Walpole 
unwittingly  bears  testimony  to  the  uniform  consistency  of  Mr.  Wbitefield*8 
oreed  and  character.  When  the  peace- festival  was  celebrated  at  Ranelagh, 
some  one  in  the  clique  of  wits,  most  likely  himself,  was  talking  of  the  Metho- 
dists, and  said,  **  Pray,  Madam,  is  it  true  that  Wbitefield  has  recanted?*'*  Lady 
Townshend  replied,  ^*  O  no ;  he  has  only  canted,'''  Walpole  thought  this  a  happy 
hit,  little  dreaming  it  to  be  a  compliment  to  a  man  who  might  have  had  pre- 
ferment at  the  time,  if  he  would  have  recanted  even  his  clerical  irregularities. 
In  a  letter  from  Bristol  dated  in  the  December  of  this  year,  .Mr  Wbitefield  tells 
Lady  Huntingdon,  ^*  the  Bishop  behaved  respectfully  when  1  was  at  sacrament 
at  the  Cathedral,  and  my  old  tutor,  one  of  the  prebendaries,  was  very  cordial 
when  I  waited  upon  him.  I  told  him  that  my  judgment  was  (I  trusted)  a 
little  more  ripened  than  it  was  some  years  ago,  and  that  as  fast  as  I  found  out 
my  faults  I  would  be  glad  to  acknowledge  them.  He  said,  the  offence  the 
governors  of  the  Churcn  had  taken  against  me  would  lessen  and  wear  off  as  I 
grew  moderate.  Blessed  be  God,  I  am  pretty  easy  about  that ;  so  that  I  can  act 
an  honest  part,  and  be  kept  from  trimming^  I  will,  through  the  Divine  assistance, 
Iftve  all  confeqaences  to  Him  who  orders  all  things  wdl.  ** 


SELINA}  COVNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  107 

it  is  without  date,  but  was  written  in  1775,  the  period  of  Lady 
Townshend's  illness : — 

"My  dearest  Madam, — The  postscript  of  your  Ladyship's  letter 
engaged  all  my  few  poor  attempts  to  answer  that  meaDing  of  our  only 
wise  and  true  Instructor,  who  enjoins  to  this  purpose  in  saying,  ^  Freely 
ye  have  received — freely  give/  The  state  of  your  heart  (as  it  appears 
to  me,)  is  in  the  Lord*s  hands,  preparing  for  his  own  appearance  to 
your  joy.  The  praying  for  anything  but  the  faith  we  have  not,  and 
which  only  can  reveal  to  our  distressed  souls  tliat  true  and  heavenly 
manifestation  of  our  salvation,  seems  to  have  little  meaning  in  it,  as  this 
must,  and  this  only,  can  be  the  foundation  of  any  lasting  peace,  or 
Jesus  Christ  the  proper  object  of  our  everlasting  praise.  He  must 
take  us  cu  dinners  into  favour,  and  no  preparation  that  our  own  idens 
form  can  alter  the  nature  of  our  true  condition.  Let  us  pass  through 
what  we  will,  all  can  only  prove  our  want  of  a  satisfactory  knowledge 
of  him,  as  our  Saviour ;  and  when  he  has  thus  addressed  our  hearts  he 
will  become  liimself  the  true  Leader  and  Teacher. 

*  «  «  •  * 

^'  With  the  truest  esteem,  and  best  wishes  for  your  eternal  welfare, 
I  am,  my  dear  Madam,  your  Ladyship's  most  faithful  friend, 

'*  S.  Huntingdon." 

Early  in  December  Mr.  WhiteBeld  made  an  excursion  to 
Gloucester  and  Bristol,  where  he  preached  to  great  multitudes. 
He  intended  remaining  some  time  in  Gloucestershire,  and  pro- 

E)sed  making  an  excursion  into  Cornwall,  but  a  letter  irom 
ady  Huntingdon  on  the  J  2th  of  December,  requiring[  his  im- 
mediate return  to  London,  obliged  him  to  postpone  his  intention. 
We  find  him  about  this  time  submitting  his  journals  to  the  cor- 
rection of  Dr.  Doddridge,  who  gave  him  some  excellent  advice 
relative  to  this  publication : — 

'^  I  thank  you  (says  he  to  the  Ductor,)  for  your  letter  a  thousand 
times  :  it  has  led  me  to  the  throne  of  grace,  where  I  have  been  crying, 
'  Lord;  counsel  my  counsellors,  and  shew  them  all  that  thou  wouldst 
have  me  to  do.'  Alas,  alas !  how  can  I  be  too  severe  against  myself, 
who,  Peter-like,  have  cut  oflf  so  many  ears,  and  by  imprudence  mixed 
with  my  zeal,  have  dishonoured  the  cause  of  Jesus  ?  I  can  only  look 
up  to  Him  who  healed  the  High-Priest's  servant's  car,  and  say,  ^  Lord 
heal  all  the  wounds  my  misguided  zeal  has  given.'  Assure  yourself, 
dear  Sir,  every  thing  I  print  shall  be  revised :  I  always  have  submitted 
my  poor  performances  to  the  correction  of  ray  friends.  Time  and  ex- 
perience, I  find,  ripen  men's  judgments,  and  make  them  more  solid, 
rational,  and  consistent,  both  in  their  conduct  and  writings.  O  that  this 
may  be  my  case  I  0  that  the  blessed  Jesus  may  enable  me  to  hold 
on,  and  hold  out,  and  keep  me  from  flagging  in  the  latter  stages  of  my 
road." 

Dr.  Doddridge  also  communicated  his  ide^  pn  the  same 


108  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

subject  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  who  was  of  opinion  that  the 
journals,  as  corrected  by  the  Doctor  and  others,  should  be 
reprinted. 

On  his  return  to  London,  Mr.  Whiteiield  was  occupied  in  his 
usual  way,  besides  preaching  very  frequently  at  Lady  Hunting- 
don's to  very  numerous  and  brilliant  assemblies.  In  a  letter  to 
Dr.  Doddridge,  he  says,  "  Blessed  be  God,  the  prosj^ect  is 
promising.  Last  Sunday  evening  I  preached  to  a  most  brilliant 
assembly  indeed ;  they  expressed  great  approbation,  and  some, 
I  think,  be^in  to  feel.  Good  Lady  Huntingdon  is  indeed  a 
mother  in  Israel — she  is  all  in  a  flame  for  Jesus.  To  Howel 
Harris  he  says,  "  I  am  now  waiting  for  Lord  Bolingbroke  and 
some  others,  who  arc  coming  to  hear  the  glorious  Gospel. 
Lord  Lothian  is  in  town.  Our  good  Lady  is  going  on,  and 
every  day  increasing  her  reward  in  heaven."  And  again  to  Mr. 
Hervey :  "  You  will  not  be  offended  if  I  tell  you  that  good  Lady 
Huntingdon  saw  your  letter :  she  was  much  pleased  with  it,  and 
has  a  great  regard  for  vou.  She  goes  on  from  strength  to 
strength — the  prospect  of  doing  good  to  the  rich  that  attend  her 
Ladyship's  house  is  verv  encouraging.  I  preach  twice  a  week, 
and  yesterday  Lord  Bolingbroke  was  one  of  my  auditors :  his 
Lordship  was  pleased  to  express  very  great  satisfaction.  Who 
knows  what  God  may  do  ?  He  can  never  work  by  a  meaner 
instrument." 

Horace  Walpole,  when  writing  to  his  friend.  Sir  Horace  Man, 
at  this  time,  says,  in  his  scoffing  way,  "  If  you  ever  think  of 
returning  to  England,  as  I  hope  it  will  be  long  first,  you  must 
prepare  yourself  with  Methodism,  I  really  believe  by  that  time 
It  will  be  necessary ;  this  sect  increases  as  fast  as  almost  ever 
any  religious  nonsense  did.  Lady  Fanny  Shirley*  has  chosen 
this  way  of  bestowing  the  dregs  of  her  beauty ;  and  Mr.  Lyttle- 
tonf  is  very  near  making  the  same  sacrifice  of  the  dregs  of  all 
those  various  characters  that  he  has  worn.  The  Methodists 
love  your  big  sinners,  as  proper  subjects  to  work  upon — and  in- 
deed they  have  a  plentiful  harvest."  Amongst  the  persons  of 
distinction  who  attended  at  Lady  Huntingdon's  house  at  this 
time,  we  find  the  following  names :  Duchess  of  Argjle — Lady 
Betty  Campbell — Lady  Ferrers,  whom  Walpole  styles  "  Ge- 
neral my  Lady  Dowager  Ferrers,"  a  woman  of  singular  habits 
and  extremely  odd  in  many  respects — Lord  Burlington — Bubb 
Doddington| — George    Selwyn — Lady   Sophia   Thomas — the 

*  Often  styled  "  Saint  Frances  "  by  Walpole. 
f  Afterwards  Lord  Lyttleton. 
\  Afterwards  Lord  Melcumbe; 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  109 

Duchess  of  Montaoru* — Lady  Cardigan — Lady  Lincoln — Lord 
Holderness — Lord  Townshend — Charles  Townshend— Mr.Lyt- 
tleton — Mr.  Pitt — Lord  North — Countess  of  Rockingham — 
Mrs.  Boscawen — Mrs.  Pitt — Miss  Rich — Lady  Fitzwalter — Sir 
Luke  and  Lady  Schaubs — Lady  Caroline  Petersham — Duke  of 
Kingston — Lord  Trentham — Lord  March — Lord  Haddinj^ton 
— Duchess  of  Queensbury — Duchess  of  Manchester — Mr.  Hus- 
seyf — Mr.  Hume  Campbell  J — Lady  Hinchinbroke  —  Lord 
Sandwich5§  &c. 

After  six  weeks*  incessant  preaching  at  Lady  Huntingdon's  to 
large  circles  of  the  nobility,  Mr.  Whitefield,  finding  his  health 
much  impaired,  thought  that  travelling  and  preacning  in  the 
country  would  do  him  good ;  he  therefore  maae  another  excur^ 
sion  to  Bristol,  and  from  thence  to  Exeter  and  Plymouth, 
where  he  was  agreeably  surprised  to  find  a  great  alteration  in 
the  people  since  his  former  visit.  From  Bristol  he  wrot«  thus 
to  her  Ladyship  : — 

"  I  came  hither  this  evening,  where  I  found  my  brother  in  the  veiy 
temper  I  could  wish,  seemingly  quite  fixed  to  leave  the  world  for  God. 
His  visit  to  town  has  been  greatly  blessed  to  him.  Surely  your  Lady- 
ship will  never  know,  till  the  day  of  judgment,  the  great  ends  God 
liad  in  view  in  calling  you  to  London.  I  rejoice  in  the  prospect  of 
seeing  your  Ladyship  happy  amidst  a  crowd  of  your  spiritual  children^ 
who  will  come  to  you,  fi'om  time  to  time,  to  be  built  up  in  their  most 
holy  faith :  you  will  suffer  many  pangs  for  them ;  but  all  shall  work 
for  your  present  and  eternal  good.  I  suffer  much  in  my  bodily  health 
for  preaching  to  the  nobility ;  but  thanks  be  to  God  that  some  seem 
to  have  a  hearing  ear  and  an  understanding  heart.  My  warmest 
prayers  are  continually  ascending  to  the  throne  of  Grace  for  your 
Ladyship,  and  for  all  those  who  have  heard  the  Word,  csj}(.c:«lly  those 
honourable  women  that  used  to  join  with  you  in  receiving  the  sacred 
symbols  of  the  Redeemers  blessed  body  and  blood.  My  cry  to  our 
Lord  iu  their  behalf  is  tliis, 

*  Take  their  poor  hearts,  and  let  them  be 
For  ever  closed  to  all  but  thee.' " 

Sir  Watkin  Williams  Wynn,  of  Wynnstay,  in  the  county  of 
Denbigh,  Bart.,  representative  of  one  of  the  most  ancient  and 
influential  families  in  the  Principality  of  Wales,  was  at  this  time 
the  bitter  enemy  and  persecutor  of  all  whom  he  suspected  of 
being  tinctured  with  Methodism;  but  the  immensely  blessed 

*  Daughter  of  the  great  Duke  of  Marlborough,  and  mother  of  Lady  Cardigan. 

t  Created  Baron  Beaulieu  in  1762,  and  Earl  Beaulieu  in  1784. 

\    Baron  Hume,  but  the  title  became  extinct  at  his  death,  in  1761. 

§  Member  of  the  Privy  Counoil,  and  First  Lord  Commiadoner  of  the 
Admiralty. 


no 


THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 


labours  of  the  apostolic  Howel  Harris  could  not  be  checked  by 
the  persecuting  spirit  of  the  Welsh  magistrates.  "  The  gentle- 
men (says  he)  ni  part  of  Brecknockshire  and  Carmarthen- 
shire, hunt  us  like  partridges ;  but  still  the  work  prospers."  In 
a  letter  to  one  of  his  friends,  Mr.  Harris  gives  an  interesting 
account  of  his  continued  labours,  sufferings,  and  success  in 
Wales : — 

"Are  you  surprised  (says  he)  at  my  silence?  Could  you  but 
take  ft  turn  mih  me  for  two  or  three  months,  and  see  my  labours  and 
triftls,  your  sur^trise  would  cease.  However,  I  will  inform  you,  that  it 
is  now  about  nme  weeks  since  I  began  to  go  round  South  and  North 
Wales,  and  this  week  returned  home.  I  have  visited  in  that  time, 
thirteeu  counties,  travelled  about  150  miles  every  week,  and  discoursed 
twice  a  day,  occasionally  three  or  four  times.  In  this  last  journey  I 
have  not  taken  off  my  clothes  for  seven  nights  together,  being  obliged 
to  vieet  the  peoj^e,  and  discourse  at  miduight,  or  very  early  in  the 
morning  to  avoid  persecution.  One  man,  near  Wrexham,  the  week 
before  I  went  thither,  was  obliged  to  pay  twenty  shillings  to  Sur  W.VV. 
Wynn,  several  of  tlie  hearers  five  shiilings ;  and  one  of  them,  ^^  ho 
had  paid  that  sum  before,  was  now  fined  ten  shillings.  This  is  the 
third  time  the  poor  people  have  been  so  served  in  that  neighboui4iood 
for  assembling  together.  Near  the  town  of  Bala,  where  I  was  for- 
merly like  to  be  murdered,  I  had  a  severe  blow  on  my  head,  but 
received  no  hurt  I  never  saw  such  crowds  coming  to  hear ;  many 
hearts  and  doors  have  been  opened  lately ;  we  know  of  several  who 
have  been  awakened  ;  and  many  speak  \iith  delight  of  coming  to  hear 
Mr.  Whitefield  when  he  visits  us  again.'' 


Mr.  Whitefield  and  Mr.  Harris  having  communicated  to  Lady 
Huntimdon  the  conduct  of  Sir  W.  W.  Wynn,  end  the  sufferings 
of  the  Methodists  in  several  parts  of  Wales,  through  the  intem- 
perate conduet  of  the  magistrates,  her  Ladyship  lost  no  time  in 
laying  the  particulars  before  Government ;  and,  to  the  no  small 
mortification  of  Sir  Watkin,  the  different  sums  of  money  which 
he  had  exacted  from  time  to  time  from  the  Methodists  were 
ordered  to  be  returned.  The  conduct  of  the  Welsh  preachers 
excited  the  indignation  of  tliis  haughty  and  persecuting  Baronet, 
who  vowed  to  take  ample  revenge  upon  every  Methodist  in 
Denbighshire;  but  before  the  lapse  of  many  months  the 
unhappy  man  was  summoned  to  another  world,  liaviug  died 
suddenly  in  consequence  of  a  fall  from  his  horse  when  returning 
from  hunting. 

All  the  Welsh  magistrates,  however,  were  not  alike  culpable. 
Howel  Harris  being  once  expected  near  Garth,  in  Brecoushire, 
the  residenoe  of  Marmaduke  Gwynne,  Esq.,  that  gentle- 
num,  alarmed  al  the  reports  he  had  heard  respecting  hiai, 
determined,  as  a  magistrate,  to  put  an  end  to  his  proceed- 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON,  111 

ings.  Regarding  him  as  an  incendiary  in  Church  and  State, 
Mr.  Gvvynne  prepared  himself  for  an  open  attack,  but  said  to 
his  lady,  on  going  out,  "  I'll  hear  the  man  myself  before  I 
commit  him."  Accordingly,  he  made  one  of  the  congregation, 
eagerly  waiting  to  lay  hold  of  anything  that  might  be  construed 
into  a  charge  against  the  preacher.  He  had  also  the  Riot  Act 
in  his  pocket,  which  he  was  prepared  to  read,  and  thus  disperse 
the  people.  Mr.  Harris's  sermon,  however,  was  so  truly  evan- 
gelical, so  calculated  to  arouse  the  careless,  to  alarm  the  wicked, 
and  to  encourage  the  penitent,  and  his  manner  so  zealous  and 
affectionate,  that  Mr.  Gwynne  thought  he  resembled  one  of  the 
apostles.  He  was  so  convinced  of  the  purity  of  his  doctrines 
and  of  the  benevolence  of  his  motives,  that,  at  the  end  of  the 
discourse,  he  went  up  to  him,  shook  him  by  the  hand,  told  him 
how  much  he  had  heen  misled  by  slanderous  reports,  avowed 
the  intention  he  had  formed  of  committing  him,  asked  his 
pardon,  and  to  the  amazement  of  the  assembly,  entreated  him  to 
accompany  him  back  to  Garth  to  supper. 

The  authority  and  countenance  ot  Mr.  Gwynne  and  his  family 
now  became  highly  important  to  the  cause  of  religion.  Regarcf- 
less  of  public  and  private  censure,  he  openly  stood  up  in  Mr* 
Harris's  defence,  and  made  use  of  his  extensive  influence  in  pro- 
moting the  spread  of  the  Gospel.  One  of  his  daughters  was 
soon  after  married  to  Mr.  Charles  Wesley. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

Dr.  Gibbons— Dr.  Gill — Mr.  Darracott— Lord  Huntingdon — Lord  Chesterfield 
— The  Jews — German  Ministers — An  impostor.— David  Levi — Lady  Fanny 
Shirley—Mr.  Whitefield  and  Mr.  Wesley— Ashby  Place— Mr.  BaddeUey— 
Lady  Huntingdon's  Illness — Lady  Anne  Hastings — Mr.  Hervey— Bishop  of 
Exeter — Mr.  Thompson — Duke  of  Somerset — Mr.  Mosei  Browne. 

On  Mr.  Whitefield's  leaving  London,  Lady  Huntingdon  invited 
Mr.  Wesley  to  preach  at  her  house,  which  he  did  twice  a  week, 
and  continued  so  to  do,  with  the  occasional  assistance  of 
Mr.  Charles  Wesley,  Mr.  Bateman,  and  some  others,  until 
Mr.  Whitefield's  return  to  the  nnetropolis.  Her  Ladyship's 
acquaintance  with  Dr.  Andrew  Giflbrd  and  Dr.  Gibbons,  men 


112  THE   LIFE   AND  TIMES   OF 

of  great  piety,  of  unimpeachable  morals,  refined  manners,  up* 
right  and  benevolent,  and  of  great  cheerfulness,  enabled  her  to 
enlarge  the  circle  of  her  usefulness.  Her  spirit  and  temper 
were  catholic  in  the  only  true  sense  of  the  v^ord.  The  Christian 
minister,  whatever  the  name  or  denomination  of  his  Church, 
was  always  welcomed  to  her  house.  The  late  Robert  Crutten- 
den,  Esq.,  a  pious  Dissenter,  in  a  letter  to  Mr.  Whitefield, 
writes  thus: — "Dr.  Gibbons  went  with  me  to  wait  on  her 
Ladyship ;  where  he  owns  he  spent  two  hours  with  more  plea- 
sure than  he  ever  remembered  to  have  done  in  any  company 
before ;  and,  I  must  freely  own,  he  spoke  my  own  sentiments." 
This  intelligence  was  gratifying  to  the  benevolent  heart  of  that 
great  and  good  man : — 

*'  I  am  glad  (says  he)  your  Ladyship  approves  of  Dr.  Gibbous. 
He  is,  I  think,  a  worthy  man.  By  maintaining  your  present  course, 
you  will  have  an  opportunity  of  conversing  with  the  best  of  all 
parties,  without  being  a  bigot  and  too  strenuously  attached  to  any. 
Surely  in  this  your  Ladyship  is  directed  from  above.  The  blessed 
Jesus  cares  for  bis  people  of  all  denominations.  He  is  gatbcriug  his 
elect  out  of  all.  Happy  they,  who,  with  a  disinterested  view,  take  in 
the  whole  church  mihtant,  and,  in  spite  of  narrow-lieartcd  bigots, 
breathe  an  undissembled  catholic  spirit  towards  all.  I  believe  that 
you  will  daily  reap  the  fruit  of  this  spirit,  and  a  free  conversation  with 
the  truly  gracious  of  all  denominations.  It  is  a  conduct  truly  godlike. 
I  rejoice  that  your  Ladyship  bath  such  a  promising  prospect  of  doing 
good  among  the  rich  and  great — that  you  approve  of  Mr.  Wesley's 
conduct,  and  that  he  hath  preached  at  your  house.  The  language 
of  my  heart  is — Lord,  send  by  whom  thou  wilt  send,  only  convert 
some  of  the  mighty  and  noble,  for  thy  mercy's  sake  I  Then,  I  care 
not  if  I  am  heard  of  no  more.  I  am  much  obliged  to  those  honourable 
ladies  who  are  pleased  to  send  me  their  good  wishes.  In  return,  they 
have  my  earnest  prayere  that  they  may  be  filled  with  all  the  fulness 

Few  men  were  more  unconscious  of  their  own  abilities,  or 
more  desirous  of  improving  by  the  meanest  instrument,  than 
Mr.  Whitefield.  In  lowliness  of  mind,  he  would  prefer  others 
to  himself.  He  never  considered  himself  as  George  Whitefield, 
the  celebrated  preacher,  but  as  a  poor  guilty  smner,  equally 
indebted  to  Divme  grace  with  the  lowest  and  meanest  of  the 
human  race.  Lady  Huntingdon  having  written  him  word,  that 
**  the  prospect  of  doing  good  at  his  return  to  London  was  very 
encouraging,"  this  otherwise  intrepid  man  trembled  at  the  idea 
of  again  addressing  the  rich  and  honourable.  In  a  letter  to 
Mr.  Cruttenden,  he  thus  expresses  himself : — "  This  post 
carries  answers  to  the  honourable  women.     I  suppose  you  will 


SELINA,    COUNTESS   OF   HUNTINGDON.  118 

• 

be  pleased  to  find  that  I  am  thus  far  on  my  return  to  Lrondon. 
O,  my  friend,  my  friend,  I  come  with  fear  and  trembling.  To 
speak  to  the  rich  and  great,  so  as  to  win  them  to  the  blessed 
Jesus,  is  indeed  a  task.  But  wherefore  do  we  fear  ?  We  can 
do  all  thin^  through  Christ  strengthening  us." 

Mr.  Whitefield  now  returned  to  London,  having  travelled 
about  six  hundred  miles  in  the  West  of  England,  where  he  had 
found,  to  his  satisfaction,  that  his  former  labours  had  been 
abundantly  blessed.  At  this  period  Lady  Huntingdon  had  a 
house  in  North  Audley-street,  where  he  preached  every  Thurs- 
day evening  to  very  crowded  auditories,  composed,  chiefly,  of 
the  nobility,  whom  her  Ladyship  invited  to  hear  him.  To  an 
American  correspondent,  he  says : — "The  news  you  have  had 
of  my  preaching  to  some  great  ones  is  true ;  I  have  done  so  for 
some  time  twice  a  week ;  and,  thanks  be  to  the  blessed  Re- 
deemer, it  has  already  produced  great  effects.  Lady  Huntingdon 
is  a  mirror  of  piety  indeed.  In  time,  I  trust,  of  the  honourable 
women  there  will  not  be  a  few  who  dare  to  confess  the  Lord 
Jesus  before  men." 

Lady  Huntingdon  continued  in  London  till  the  month  of 
June,  when  she  removed  to  Clifton  for  the  benefit  of  her  health ; 
and  about  this  time  became  acquainted  with  that  eminent  writer 
Dr.  Gill,  whose  private  character  was  so  excellent,  that  it  has 
been  said,  his  learning  and  labours  were  exceeded  only  by  the 
invariable  sanctity  of  his  life  and  conversation.  He  had  then 
lately  published  his  celebrated  Commentary  on  the  New  Testa- 
ment, in  three  folio  volumes,  which  impressed  Lady  Huntingdon 
with  esteem  for  the  purity  of  his  intentions,  and  admiration  for 
the  magnitude  of  his  labours.  The  immense  reading  and  learn- 
ing which  it  displayed,  induced  the  University  of  Aberdeen  to 
send  him  the  diploma  of  D.D.,  with  the  followmg  compliment : 
"  On  account  of  his  knowledge  of  the  Scriptures,  of  the  Ori- 
ental languages,  and  of  Jewish  antiauities,  of  nis  learned  defence 
of  the  Scriptures  against  deists  and  infidels,  and  the  reputation 
gained  by  his  other  works,  the  University  had,  without  his 
privity,  unanimously  agreed  to  confer  on  him  the  degree  of 
Doctor  of  Divinitv."  His  intimate  friend  and  warm  admirer. 
Mr.  Toplady,  has  left  on  record  a  high  opinion  of  his  excellent 
character. 

The  young  Earl  of  Huntingdon  was  now  approaching  his 
majority,  and  Lady  Huntingdon  was  preparing  to  resign  Don- 
nington  Park  to  her  son.  She  left  Bristol  early  in  the  month 
of  August,  and  taking  a  house  at  Ashby,  eatablished  herself 
there  with  her  other  children,  and  her  excellent  sisters-in-law, 

VOL.  I.— I 


114  nf£  Lire  AKD  TIMCB  OF 

the  Ladies  Hastings.     In  a  letter  to  the  Rev.  Risdon  Darracott, 
her  Ladyship  mentions  this  favourite  residence : — 

^  The  affairs  of  my  family  called  mc  from  Jiomc ;  but  I  am  again 
brought  back  in  safety,  and  mucli  happiness  of  heart,  and  that  to  a 
sweet  little  family  who  live  but  to  devote  erery  hour  more  and  more 
to  the  love  and  knowledge  of  tlie  Lord  Jesus.  We  had  agree<l  upon 
this  retreat,  and  taken  a  larger  house  among  us  for  this  purpose,  and 
we  all  wish  your  prayers.  To  become  the  Lord's  in  body,  soul^  and 
gpintf  is  the  one  cry  and  desire  of  our  hearts ;  and  we  know  He  will 
not  reject  us,  nor  cast  us  out ;  and  though  we  can  do  nothing,  yet  we 
can  receire  of  his  fulness  grace  for  grace ;  and  in  this  world  suffer 
reproach  and  persecution  for  his  name's  sake,  which  is  sweet  and 
honourable  to  us ;  when,  though  we  can  do  nothing,  we  glory  in  this, 
that*  to  his  praise,  he  hath  redeemed,  and  will  make  us  priests  unto 
Ood.  We  should  rejoice  to  see  you  amongst  us :  and  I  hope  notliing 
vrill  prevent  it,  if  convenient  to  you.  All  gospel  ministers,  it  is  our 
highest  honour  and  happiness  to  serve,  and  no  denomination  do  we 
ever  reject."  * 

*  This  excessive  liberality  on  the  part  of  Lady  Huntingdon  exposed  bcr 
•ometimet  to  the  artifices  of  the  designing,  who  tailed  not  to  prey  upon  hrr 
l^ous  generosity.    About  the  date  of  this  letter  great  efforts  were  made  on  tic 
Continent,  assisted  by  the  support  of  the  charitable  in  England,  to  conrert  the 
Jews  to   Christianity.     Two  zealous  students  in  the  University  of  Halle,  in 
Saxony,  devoted  themselves  to  tbi8  work  of  grace,  travelling  over  Europe 
daring  several  years ;  preaching,  and  raising  funds  for  the  maintenance  of  pro- 
sriytes  and  cstechumenii,  and  for  the  publication  of  tracts,  those  messengen 
of  mercy,  which  were  dispersed  in  thousands,  by  Russian  officers,  a  Swedish 
Bishop,  the  Danish  missionaries,  and  other  z^ous  pereons,  wherever  an  indi- 
vidual of  the  Jewish  nation  was  to  be  found.     An  account  of  these  efforts  was 
pablisbed  in  1732  in  a  pamphlet  of  forty-eigbt  pages,  drawn  up  by  Professor 
John  Henry  CoUenber^,  of  Halle,  which  was  reprinted  in  London  in  1751,  with 
a  view  to  its  distribution   among  Jews  and  Mahommedans,  by  English  mer- 
chants  trading  to  the  East      Of  the  seed  thus  sown,  good  fruit  was  expected, 
but  tarts  sprung  up  to  destroy  the  wholesome  grain,  and  to  deceive  the  hopes 
of  the  sower.      Hypocrisy  and  apostasy  marred  the  fair  work  of  conversion, 
and  the  wicked  pretender  applied  to  his  own  use  the  contributions  intended 
for  the  persecuted  convert.       In  September,  1749,  Mr.  Whitetield  introdiic-ed 
to  Lady  Huntingdon  two  German  mmisters  who  had  laboured  in  this  vineyard, 
and  preached  in  the  German  chapel  here  with  ^reat  power ;  but  the  time  for 
the  conversion  of  the  Jews,  that  great  triumph  which  is  to  crown  the  Christian 
verity,  had  not  yet  arrived.      Her  Ladynbip,  waiting  for  the  fuhiess  of  time, 
fbiled  not  to  pour  in  her  mite  towards  the  accomplishment  of  i;o  pure  a  pur- 
pose.    But  these  true  ministers  were  followed  bv  impostors,  two  of  whom,  a 
rather  and  son,  after  having  been  several  times  baptized  in  various  countries 
of  Europe,  came  to  repeat  the  profitable  experiment  in  England.     They  foimd 
a  liberal  friend  in  Laay  Huntingdon,  whom  they  grossly  deceived ;  and,  as  we 
learn  from  David  Levi  (see  his  work  on  the  Prophecies,  p.  114,)  persuaded 
her  that  they  were  not  only  proselytes  to  Christianity,  but  that  they  had  also 
eoBverted  mm  (Levi),  whose  example  was  calculated  to  produce  a  powerful 
effect  on  his  whole  nation.    Levi  amuses  himself  with  the  credulity  of  the 
■ufferers,  from  whom  these  impostors  had  obtained  upwards  of  £  1 ,800.    **  Lady 
Huntingdon  (he  says)  requested  me  to  wait  on  ber,  whether  ior  my  conver- 
sion, or  to  be  better  informed  concerning  the  imposture,  I  cannot  tell,  for  her 
illness  prevented  the  interview." 


SELINAi  COUtCTESS  OF  HUMTfNODON.  115 

On  cotnirtg  of  age,  the  Earl  of  Huntingdon  took  possession 
of  Donnington  Park,  Ledstone  Hall,  &c.;  and  soon  after  set 
out  on  his  travels  trough  France,  Italy,  and  Germany.  The 
Earl  of  Albemarle  Was  then  ambassador  to  the  court  of  France^ 
and  lived  in  a  style  of  great  magnificence.  Among  the  Ens^lish 
residents  in  Paris  were  Lady  Hervey,  Sir  John  Lambert, 
Colonel  York,  and  Lord  Stormont,  who  received  the  youhg 
Earl  with  most  polite  attention.  Lord  Chesterfield,  who  Con- 
sidered himself  his  second  father,  thus  introduces  him  to  the 
notice  of  one  of  his  most  intimate  correspondents,  a  lady  whose 
accomplishments  and  personal  virtues  were  at  least  equal  to  her 
birth  and  high  rank : — 

"  In  spite  of  my  promises,  Madam,  not  to  saddle  you  with  my 
countrymen,  here  is  one  whom  I  take  the  liberty  to  recommend  to 
you.  Don't  bo  afraid,  don't  be  presently  angry,  and  I  dare  say  you 
will  thank  me  hereafter.  It  is  the  Earl  of  Huntingdon,  one  of  the 
first  peers  of  England,  Whoie  family  is  celebrated  in  the  most  Ancient 
fecordst  His  meHt  and  talents  are  at  least  equal  to  his  descent ;  he 
is  distinguished  from  all  our  young  nobility  by  his  personal  erudition ; 
in  short,  he  wants  nothing  to  make  him  perfect,  but  wbat  he  will  ac- 
quire with  you,  better  than  any  where  else ;  I  mean  an  acquaintance 
with  the  polite  world.  I  will  venture  to  add  one  merit  more,  A^bich  1 
flatter  myself  he  will  have  in  your  opinion,  which  is  that  of  being  my 
patticular  friend.  He  looks  Upon  me  as  his  father,  and  I  consider  him 
as  my  adopted  son.  I  therefore  earnestly  beg,  Madatn,  yoU  will  pro- 
tect, encourage,  and  even  advise  him.  He  has  too  much  discernment 
not  to  be  sensible  of  the  value  of  your  friendship,  and  too  much  feeling 
ever  to  forget  it.  To  siim  up  all  in  one  word,  he  will  soon  bo  What 
his  second  father  is  now,  yoUr  very  faithful  servant, 

"  Chestbrpikld.** 

Lady  Fanny  Shirley  now  began  to  make  an  open  professioil 
of  the  faith  once  delivered  to  the  saints,  and  aniidst  all  the 
scofTs  and  tauntings  of  a  benighted,  ill-natured,  and  ridiculing 
world)  to  rejoice  with  joy  unspeakable,  even  a  joy  that  is  full  of 
glory.  During  Lady  Huntingdon's  absence  ttom  London  Lady 
Fanny  opened  her  house  for  the  preaching  of  the  Qospel: 
there  Mr.  Whitefield,  and  other  ministers  of  Christ,  proclaimed 
all  the  woihIs  of  this  life,  and  were  heard  with  deep  and  serious 
attention.  "  On  Saturday,  (says  he,  in  a  letter  to  Lady  Hun- 
tinmlon,)  I  had  the  honour  of  being  almost  all  the  day  long, 
witn  Lady  Fanny,  Lady  Gertrude  Hotham,  Lady  Chesterfield^ 
and  the  Countess  Delits.  Lady  Fanny  and  the  Countess  re*- 
ceived  the  blessed  sacrament  before  tne  others  came,  and  1 
think  they  both  grow."  The  Countess  Delitz  had  l>een  the 
instrument  of  much  good  to  Lady  Fanny,  and  was  the  open  and 
avowed  friend  of  Mr.  Whitefield,  and  all  who  were  suffering  for 
I  2 


116  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

the  testimony  of  Jesus.  When  writing  to  her  Ladyship,  he 
observes : — "  How  much  are  you  indebted  to  Divine  grace,  that 
hath  singled  you  out  from  among  the  mighty  and  noble,  and 
placed  your  Ladyship  in  the  number  of  those  happy  few  to 
whom  it  is  given  to  know  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom  of  God ! 
I  trust  your  honoured  sister  (Lady  Chesterfield)  will  ere  long 
bear  you  company,  and  travel  with  you  in  that  narrow  road 
which  leads  to  eternal  life.  When  I  remember  you,  I  always 
think  of  her,  and  beg  my  most  dutiful  respects  may  find  ac- 
ceptance with  her  Ladyship." 

Mr.  Whitefield  was  very  attentive  to  the  spiritual  interests  of 
his  converts  in  hi^h  life,  and  maintained  a  constant  correspond- 
ence with  severd  gf  them.  Soon  after  he  left  London  for  a 
tour  in  Yorkshire  and  the  north  of  England,  he  writes  thus  to 
Lady  Fanny  Shirley : — 

"  Newcastle,  Oct.  1, 1749. 
^'  Honoured  Madam, — Some  time  last  week,  my  wife  sent  mc  the 
letter  your  Ladyship  was  pleased  to  favour  me  with  about  three  weeks 
ago ;  though  I  was  sorry  it  did  not  reach  me  before  I  left  town,  yet 
I  rejoiced  to  find  that  it  bespoke  yoiu*  Ladyship's  attachment  to  the 
ever-loving,  ever-lovely  Jesus,  and  a  desire  to  partake  of  the  sacred 
symbols  of  his  most  blessed  body  and  blood.  I  doubt  not  but  your 
Ladyship,  with  full  purpose  of  heart,  will  cleave  unto  him,  and  in  spite 
of  men  and  devils,  go  on  in  that  narrow  way  which  leads  to  life  eternal. 
God's  grace  will  be  sufficient  for  you — he  hath  promised,  and  he  is 
faithful  who  hath  promised,  never  to  leave  or  forsake  those  that  put 
their  trust  in  him.  He  is  in  the  burning  bush — ^he  is  in  the  fiery  fur- 
nace— he  can  and  will  make  us  more  than  conquerors  over  all.  With 
what  courage  then  may  your  Ladyship  go  on  through  this  howling 
wilderness,  whilst  leonuig  on  our  beloved  Saviour  !  In  him  alone  is 
all  our  strength  found.  Honoured  Madam,  look  to  him,  consider 
him,  and  thereby  you  will  be  kept  from  being  weary  and  faint  in  your 
mind.  I  doubt  not  but  you  meet  with  daily  crosses.  Persons  that 
stand  ulone,  and  in  high  places,  must  expect  storms ;  but  Jesus  is  able 
and  willing  to  uphold  you — thanks  be  to  his  great  name  for  giving  you 
such  a  share  of  prudence  and  courage.  May  the  glorious  Immonucl 
increase  both ;  and,  without  being  attached  to  any  party,  may  you  be 
preserved  unspotted  from  the  world,  and  be  a  common  friend  to  all ! 
My  heart's  desire  and  prayer  is,  that  you  may  go  on  from  strength  to 
strength,  and  be  continuailv  growing  in  the  knowledge  of  yourself 
and  Christ  Jesus  your  Lord.  I  must  now  add  no  more,  but  my  re- 
peated thanks  for  all  your  Ladyship's  favours,  and  my  repeated  assu- 
rances of  being,  honoured  Madam,  your  Ladyships  most  obliged, 
obedient,  and  ready  servant  for  Christ's  sake, 

'*  G.  Whitkpibld." 

Another  object  lay  near  to  Mr.Whitefield's  heart  at  this  time. 
It  was  during  this  winter  that  he  formed  the  design  of  identifying 


SEUNA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON,  117 

Lady  Huntingdon  with  his  Societies — the  only  plan  he  ever 
laid  for  perpetuating  them.  He  told  Lady  Fanny  that  he  had 
disengaged  himself  from  the  immediate  care  of  the  Societies, 
that  he  might  be  more  at  liberty  to  preach  the  Gospel ;  and  he 
saw  Lady  Huntingdon  a  Dorcas^  and  felt  that  she  might  and 
ought  to  be  a  Phoebe.  She  had  used  her  influence,  at  his  soli- 
citation, with  the  Court  and  the  Government,  in  behalf  of  the 
sufferers  in  the  Cork  riots ;  and  had  readily  patronized  such  poor 
or  persecuted  ministers  as  he  brought  under  her  notice.  All 
this,  and  the  want  of  a  leader^  led  him  to  seek  her  patronage, 
especially  for  his  Societies  in  the  west  end  of  the  town.  How 
he  opened  the  subject  to  her  is  not  known,  but  it  does  not  seem 
to  have  been  ill  received,  for  she  desired  the  public  prayers  of 
the  Tabernacle  for  herself  at  the  time ;  and  Mr.  Whitefield  read 
that  part  of  her  letter  to  the  people,  and  infornied  her,  that 
^^  thousands  heartly  joined  in  singing  the  following  verses  for  her 
Ladyship :" 

"  Gladly  we  join  to  pray  for  those 

Who,  rich  with  worldly  honours,  shine, 
Who  dare  to  own  a  Saviour's  cause, 
And  in  that  hnted  cause  to  join : 
Yes  we  would  praise  thee,  that  a  few 
Love  thee,  though  rich  and  noble  too." 

'*  Uphold  this  star  in  thy  right  hand — 
Crown  her  endeavours  with  success  ; 

Among  the  great  ones  may  she  stand, 
A  witness  of  thy  righteousness. 

Till  many  nobles  join  thy  train. 

And  triumph  in  the  Lamb  that's  slain." 

In  the  same  letter,  he  said  to  her, — 

^'  A  leader  is  wanting.  This  honour  hatli  been  put  upon  your  Lady- 
ship by  the  great  Head  of  the  Church ;  an  honour  conferred  on  few, 
but  an  earnest  of  one  to  be  put  upon  your  Ladyship  before  men  and 
angels,  when  time  shall  be  no  more.  That  you  may  every  day  add  to 
the  splendour  of  your  future  crown,  be  always  abounding  in  the  work 
of  the  Lord,  is  the  fervent  prayer  of,  &c. " 

The  great  leaders  of  both  the  Methodistic  Connexions  were 
at  this  period  in  the  metropolis,  each  at  their  different  spheres, 
labouring  diligently  to  promote  the  salvation  of  immortal  souls. 
Lady  Huntingdon,  always  desirous  of  promoting  peace  and 
unanimity  amongst  those  who  professed  to  be  the  followers  of 
her  adorable  Master,  determined  on  an  endeavour  to  heal  the 
differences  that  then  existed  between  these  great  and  good 
men.     For  this  benevolent  purpose  she  wrote  to  Mr.  Whitefield 


SELINAf   COUKTIBM   Of   HUNTINGDON.  119 

forbearance  toivards  each  other,  and  mutoal  kindnesa,  Biay  we  unitate 
his  blessed  disciples,  so  that  all  those  who  take  knowledge  of  us  may 
say — ^  See  how  tnese  Christians  love  one  another !'" 

The  close  of  the  year  1749,  and  beginning  of  the  succeeding 
year,  Ladjr  Huntingdon  spent  at  Ashby-place,  fully  occupied  in 
administering  to  the  spiritual  and  temporal  necessities  of  the 
poor  around  her.  In  these  labours  of  love  her  Ladyship  was 
ably  assisted  by  her  domestic  chaplain,  Mr.  Baddelley,  and  her 
excellent  sister,  the  Lady  Anne  and  Lady  Frances  Hastings. 
In  her  Ladyship's  intercourse  with  the  poor  and  illiterate  she 
always  studied  what  was  most  plain  and  easy,  and  best  suited  to 
their  capacities ;  and  endeavoured  to  set  berore  them  from  time 
to  time  the  most  important  and  necessary  truths  of  Christianity, 
such  as  most  immediately  concerned  their  speedy  conversion 
to  God ;  the  sinfulness  and  misery  of  their  state  by  nature ;  the 
desperate  depravity  of  their  hearts ;  the  entire  pollution  of  their 
natures;  the  heavy  guilt  they  were  under,  and  their  liability  to 
everlasting  punishment;  as  also  their  utter  inability  to  save 
themselves,  either  from  their  sins,  or  from  those  miseries  which 
are  the  just  punishment  of  them ;  their  unworthiness  of  any 
mercy  at  the  hands  of  God,  on  account  of  any  thing  they  them-" 
selves  could  do  to  procure  his  favour ;  and  consequently  their 
extreme  need  of  Christ  to  save  them.  These  truths  were  in- 
sisted on  with  zeal  and  fidelity,  while,  at  the  same  time,  her 
Ladyship  endeavoured  to  open  to  the  view  of  her  attentive  lis^ 
teners  the  fulness,  all-sufficiency,  and  freedom  of  that  redemp- 
tion which  the  Son  of  God  has  wrought  out  by  bis  obedience 
and  suffering — how  this  provision  he  had  made  was  suited  to  all 
their  wants ;  and  how  he  called  and  invited  them  to  accept  of 
everlasting  life  freely  offered,  notwithstanding  all  their  sinful- 
ness, inability,  and  utter  unworthiness. 

The  degree  of  knowledge  which  some  of  these  poor  people 
attained  was  considerable  :  and  that  which  afforded  Lady  Hun* 
tingdon  the  greatest  encouragement  amidst  many  difficulties  and 
disconsolate  hours,  was,  that  the  truth  of  Goas  word  seemed 
at  times  to  be  attended  with  some  power  upon  the  hearts  and 
consciences  of  those  around  her.  Several  of  them  oame,  of 
their  own  accord,  to  speak  with  her  Ladyship  about  their  iouls* 
concerns ;  and  some,  with  tears,  inquired  what  they  must  do  to 
be  saved  ?  A  visible  reformation  appeared  in  the  lives  and 
manners  of  some  ;  many  vicious  practices  were  broken  off;  and 
a  greater  degree  of  regard  was  manifested  for  the  Lord's-day. 
Yet  there  was  much  of  a  discouraging  nature ;  and  while  the 

t)eQf)voleQt  hwpi  of  tbe  CQuntoss  rejoiced  to  observe  any  »eri« 


120  THE   LIFX   AND  TIMES   OF 

ousness  among  the  poor  in  her  neighbourhood,  she  was  not 
without  continual  fear  lest  such  encouraging  appearances  might 
prove  like  a  morning  cloud  that  passeth  away. 

Mr.  Baddelley  resided,  as  we  have  said,  in  the  family  of  Lady 
Huntingdon  in  the  capacity  of  domestic  chaplain :  his  piety 
and  talents  were  much  respected  by  her  Ladyship,  and  he  was 
very  zealous  in  the  discharge  of  nis  ministerial  duties.  His 
views  of  divine  truth  became  more  consistent;  and  at  this 
change  his  religious  friends  rejoiced,  and  none  more  than  Lady 
Huntmgdon,  whose  heart-searching  conversations,  under  the 
influence  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  first  directed  his  apprehensions 
to  Christ's  righteousness  ;  and  led  him  to  a  clear  light  and 
understanding  of  the  ffospel  of  the  grace  of  God.  He  seems 
to  have  been  peculiarly  endeared  to  her  Ladyship,  from  the 
frequent  mention  of  him  in  Mr.  Whitefield's  letters. 

^'  I  thank  the  Lord  (says  he)  ten  thousand  times  that  your  Ladyship 
is  so  well  pleased  with  Mr.  BaddeUey :  he  expresses  the  strone  sense 
he  has  of  the  obligations  he  lies  under  to  the  Lord  Jesus  Chnst,  and 
under  him,  to  your  Ladyship.  0  that  neither  of  us  may  prove  ungrate- 
ful in  any  respect !"  And  again :  "  I  bless  God  for  Mr.  Baddelley^ 
and  rejoice  exceedingly  in  the  comfort  wliich  your  Ladyship  has  in 
him.  I  will  take  care  to  cultivate  our  acquamtancc,  and  earnestly 
pray  that  it  may  be  blessed  to  our  mutual  improvement.  I  trust  he 
will  be  a  good  soldier  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  doubt  not  ere  long  I  shall 
hear  of  his  receiving  some  wounds  and  scars  of  honour  in  the  field 
of  battle." 

Mr.  Whitefield  had  a  strong  personal  regard  for  Mr.  Bad- 
delley, and  frequently  corresponded  with  him.  The  following 
letter,  while  it  exhibits  that  good  man's  concern  for  him,  makes 
Mr.  Baddelley's  principles  and  views  also  evident : — 

"  London,  Jan.  12, 1750. 
*'  My  very  dear  Sir, — Lest  I  should  be  hindered  to-morrow,  or  in 
the  beginning  of  the  week,  I  now  sit  down  to  answer  your  kind  letter. 
0  that  I  may  be  helped  to  write  something  that  may  do  you  service, 
and  be  a  means  of  quickening  you  in  that  delightful  cause  in  which 
you  are  embarked.  I  see,  my  dear  Sir,  you  are  likely  to  have  hot 
work  before  you  quit  the  field ;  for  I  find  you  have  begun  to  batter 
Satan*s  strongest  holds — I  mean  the  self-righteousness  of  man.  Here, 
Sir,  you  must  expect  the  strongest  opposition — ^it  is  the  Diana  of  every 
age — it  is  the  golden  image  which  that  apostate  Nebuchadnezzar,  man^ 
continually  sets  up ;  and  the  not  falling  down  to  worship  it^  but  much 
more  the  speaking,  WTiting,  or  preaching  against  it,  exposes  one  im- 
mediately to  the  fury  of  its  blind  votaries,  and  we  are  thro\^Ti  directly 
into  a  den  of  devouring  lions.  But  fear  not,  Mr.  Baddelley,  the  God 
whom  we  serve,  the  Captain  under  whose  banner  we  are  listed,  is  able 
to  deliver  us :  he  knows  how  to  train  us  up  gradually  for  war,  and  is 


SELINA)  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINOBON.  121 

engaged  to  bring  us  off  more  than  conquerors  irom  the  field  of  battle. 
If  any  one  need  give  way,  it  must  be  the  poor  creature  that  is  writing 
to  yoU)  for  I  believe  there  is  not  a  person  living  more  timorous  by 
nature.  But  I  trust,  in  a  degree,  Jesus  hath  delivered  me  from  worldly 
hopes  and  worldly  fears,  and  by  his  grace  strengthening  me^  he  makes 
me  often  bold  as  a  lion.  But  0,  my  dear  Sir,  this  petty  character  of 
mine  I  did  not  at  first  care  to  part  with ;  'twas  death  to  be  despised, 
and  worse  than  death  to  think  of  being  laughed  at  by  all :  but  when 
I  began  to  consider  Him  who  endured  such  contradiction  of  sinners 
against  himself,  I  then  longed  to  drink  of  the  same  cup,  and,  blessed 
be  God,  contempt  and  I  are  pretty  intimate,  and  have  been  so  for 
above  twice  seven  years.  Jesus'  love  makes  it  a  very  agreeable  com- 
panion, and  I  no  longer  wonder  that  Moses  made  such  a  blessed  choice, 
and  rather  chose  to  suffer  affliction  with  the  people  of  God,  than  to 
enjoy  the  pleasures  of  sin  for  a  season.  May  the  Lord  Jesus  make 
us  thus  indeed !  For  there  is  no  doing  good  without  enduring  the 
scourge  of  the  tongue ;  and  take  this  for  a  certain  rule,  ^  the  more 
successful  you  are,  the  more  hated  you  will  be  by  Satan,  and  the  more 
despised  you  will  be  by  those  that  know  not  God.'  What  has  the 
honoured  Lady  Huntingdon  suffered,  under  whose  roof  you  dwell  ? 
Above  all,  what  did  your  blessed  Master  suffer,  who  hath  done  such 
great  things  for  you  ?  0  let  us  follow  him,  though  it  be  through  a  sea 
of  blood.  I  could  enlarge,  but  time  will  not  permit.  I  am  ashamed 
of  my  unprofitableness,  and  must  retire  after  begging  that  you  will 
not  forget^  reverend  and  dear  Sir,  yours,  &c., 

"  G.  Whitbfibld.' 

Whilst  Lady  Huntingdon  was  thus  actively  engaged  in  the 
country,  Mr.  whitefield  was  rejoicing  in  the  success  attending 
his  ministry  in  the  metropolis : — 

'^  Though  I  am  wearied  (says  he)  in  walking  to  and  from  South 
Audley-street,*  yet  I  must  not  omit  sending  to  your  Ladyship  tliis 
night  Every  day  we  have  new  hearers,  and  I  find  some  one  or 
another  is  almost  continually  brought  under  convictions,  or  is  edified 
at  the  Tabernacle.  Were  it  is  as  big  again,  I  believe,  on  Sunday  mom* 
ings,  it  would  be  filled.  This  day  hath  been  spent  with  the  Countess, t 
Lady  Gertrude,}  Colonel  Gumley,  &c.  I  gave  them  the  communion^ 
and  aflerwards  preached :  the  public  minister  from  Genoa  came  to 
hear  me,  and  I  believe  it  was  a  profitable  season.  Lady  Fanny  holds 
on,  and  writes  word  to  the  Countess,  that  she  wishes  all  were  as  happy 
as  she  hath  been  in  reading  Bishop  Hall's  Contemplations.'  ** 

He  also  expounded  at  the  residence  of  Lady  Gertrude 
Hotham, — 

*'  Where  (says  he)  I  gave  the  blessed  sacrament,  and  afterwards  a 
word  of  exhortation.    Our  Lord  was  there,  and  your  Ladyship  and 

*  The  residence  of  the  Countess  Delitz. 

f  Countess  Delitz. 

I  Lady  Gertrude  Hotham. 


132  Tin  UFB  AMD  TIBCXI  OF 

honoared  sistert  were  remembered  before  Him.     On  Tuesdaj  ne&t 
Uie  blessed  feast  is  to  be  again  repeated  at  the  Countess's  house." 

Towards  tho  end  of  January  Lady  Huntingdon  was  attacked 
by  an  alarming  indisposition,  which  for  sevenal  days  seemed  to 
threaten  the  loss  of  her  valuable  life.  The  Ladies  Hastings, 
with  that  solicitude  all  must  feel  for  an  object  of  so  much  moment* 
sought  the  best  medical  assistance  which  could  be  procured  in 
the  vicinity  of  Ashby -place,  yet  looked  continually  to  God  for 
his  blessing  on  every  means  pointed  out  for  the  relief  of  the 
Countess.  An  express  was  immediately  despatched  to  North- 
ampton, and  in  about  ten  days  the  violence  of  the  duiease  began 
to  abate  under  tho  judicious  treatment  of  Dr.  Stonhouse,  and 
her  Ladyship  became  so  far  recovei*ed  as  to  be  able  to  write  to 
hor  friends,  though  for  some  weeks  unable  to  leave  her  apart- 
ment. Lady  Anne  Hastings  wrote  to  apprise  Mr.  Whitefield 
of  Lady  Huntingdon's  alarming  situation,  but  he  being  in  the 
country  did  not  receive  her  letter,  and  knew  nothing  of  her 
Ladyship's  indisposition  till  he  heard  of  her  recovery  on  his 
arrival  at  Bristol,  whence  he  wrote  to  her  thus : — 

''  With  great  delight  (on  my  coming  to  Bristol  last  night,)  I  heard 
of  your  Ladyship's  recovery.  May  the  Lord  of  all  lords  perfect  the 
begun  blessing,  and  give  you  to  live  many  years  to  be  an  ornament  to 
his  Church,  and  a  blessing  to  his  people.  May  the  Lord  Jesus  be  with 
your  spirit,  and  with  the  spirit  of  your  honoured  sisters^  whom  I  always 
remember.  I  doubt  not  out  they  were  much  concerned  at  your  Lady- 
ship's illness.  May  they  long  live  with  you  to  be  fellow-helpers  of 
each  other's  faith,  and  to  shine  as  lights  in  the  world !  May  the 
blessing  of  many  ready  to  perish  descend  on  your  Ladyship !" 

Immediately  on  the  approach  of  convalescence,  Ladv  Hun- 
tingdon wrote  to  Mr.Whitefield,  who  replied  from  Bristol,  where 
he  was  still  labouring,  to  the  following  effect : — 

''  Blessed  be  the  God  and  Fatlier  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who  in 
mercy  to  his  Church  and  ])eople,  is  yet  pleased  to  hold  your  soul  in 
life,  and  make  your  Ladyship  instrumental  in  plucking  sinners  as 
brands  out  of  the  burning.  All  these  things  I  look  upon  only  as  the 
earnests  of  good  things  to  come.  Goodness  and  mercy  will  follow  your 
Ladyship  all  the  days  of  your  life,  and  you  shall  dwell  in  the  house 
oftlieLord  forever!  Lady  Anne's  sudden  shock*  proves  that  the 
old  observation  is  true,  ^  seldom  one  affliction  comes  alone.'  I  rejoice 
to  hear  that  her  Ladyship  is  recovered,  and  prav  tho  Lord  of  all  lords 
so  to  sanctify  it  to  her  better  part,  that  she  may  be  ready  at  a  moment's 
warning  to  go  forth  and  meet  the  heavenly  Bridegroom.     0,  to  be 

•  Lady  Anne  Hastings,  in  consequence  of  the  constant  attendance  on,  and 
anxiety  for  Lady  Huntingdon,  sufiered  a  serious  but  brief  indisposition  during 
the  iUness  of  the  Countess. 


SELINAf  COUNTEM  OF  ^UVTlVODON.  ISO 

always  ready-^io  have  notliing  to  do,  but  to  die !  Surely  the  Re- 
deemer hath  purchased  this  blessing  for  us.  Doth  not  your  Ladyship 
find  it  difficult  to  be  resigned  to  life,  aud  to  continue  so  long  absent 
from  the  Lord  ?  But  there  is  one  consideration  which  may  make  life 
desirable  to  the  greatest  saint  on  earth ;  he  nmy  hero  do  and  suffer  for 
Jesus,  and  call  sinners  to  Him  ;  but  in  heaven  all  this  will  be  over. 
Come  life  then,  come  death,  Jesus,  may  thy  will  bo  dopo  in,  by^  and 
upon  thy  people  !  I  know  your  Ladyship's  heart  echoes  back.  Amen* 
But  what  shall  I  say  to  tho  opposition  arising  at  Ashby  ?  I  trust  it  is 
a  sign  that  good  has  already  been  done,  and  that  more  is  still  doing.  ' 
The  Searcher  of  hearts  knows  how  highly  I  value  your  Ladyship  s 
letters ;  yet  I  think  it  honour  enough  (o  havo  leave  to  write  to  yoi), 
without  expecting  punctual  answers.  0  that  I  may  gladden  your 
heart  with  glad  tiaings  from  the  west  I  I  believe  I  shfJl.  I  have 
been  much  helped  in  preaching  here,  and  have  heard  of  two  that  were 
thoroughly  ashamed  when  I  was  here  last,  Bi|t  I  forget  tbf^  your 
Ladyship  is  yet  confiqod  to  your  room.  May  the  Lord  Jesus  make  it 
a  Bethel,  a  house  of  Ood,  and  a  gate  of  heaven  to  your  soul  I" 

Hitherto  Lady  Huntingdon  had  not  corresponded  with  Mr, 
Hervey,  though  she  had  long  entertained  a  great  regard  for 
this  amiable  man.  One  or  two  letters  bad  passed  between 
them,  but  no  regular  correspondence  took  place  till  the  close 
of  the  year  1749;  at  which  time  Mr.  Whiteneld  congratulated 
hin^  thus : — "  I  am  glad  you  have  opened  a  correspondenoe 
with  our  elect  Lady.  Keep  it  open,  I  entreat  you,  my  dear 
friend,  and  be  not  nimU  nullus.*'  To  the  repeated  roquest  of 
Lady  Huntingdon,  conveyed  through  Mr.  Whitefield,  Mr. 
Hervey  at  length  yielded,  and  commenced  a  correspondence, 
which  continued  uninterrupted  till  he  was  removed  to  his 
eternal  reward.  His  first  letter  was  dated  February  2,  1750,  and 
runs  thus ; — 

'<  My  Lady, — It  is  impossible  for  roe  to  withhold  my  pen,  or  to 
neglect  the  opportunity  of  the  very  first  post,  since  I  am  assured,  by 
your  Ladyship  s  excellent  chaplain,  that  a  letter,  from  so  mean  a  hand, 
may  hope  for  the  honour  of  your  acceptance. 

^*  But  how  shall  I  proceed,  now  I  have  begun  ?  What  religious 
truth  can  I  write  that  your  Ladyship  has  not  known  ?  What  Cnri»- 
tian  grace  can  I  suggest,  that  your  Ladyship  does  not  exercise  ?  Or, 
what  valuable  subject  touch  upon,  which  your  own  meditations  have 
not  ^ne  through  ?  Yes,  there  is  one  subjeet,  which  even  your  Lady* 
ship^  exalted  apprehensions  have  never  found  out  to  perfection ;  I 
mean  the  sublime  and  adorable  attributes  of  the  infinite  Ood.  What 
amazing  glories  shine  forth,  even  in  the  '  back  parts'  of  the  Lord 
Jehovah  I  In  those  transient  and  dim  diseoveries  of  himself  which 
Ho  vouchsafes  to  the  children  of  men  ;  to  oreatures  that  dwell  li\ 
olay. 

«'  If  v?e  talk  of  power  ^'  who  is  like  unto  tho  Lord  our  Ood  f 


124  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

^  which  shaketh  the  earth  out  of  her  place,  and  the  pillars  thereof 
tremhle ;  which  commandeth  the  sun  and  it  riscth  not,  and  scaleth  up 
the  stars ;  which  alone  spreadeth  out  the  heavens,  and  treadcth  upon 
the  waves  of  the  sea ;  which  doeth  great  things,  past  finding  out ;  jea^ 
and  wonders  without  numher.' 

"  If  we  admire  greatness  ;  how  supremely  great  is  He  who  inhabits 
eternity ;  who  spans  immensity  ;  before  whom  all  nations  ore  as  the 
small  drop  of  the  bucket ;  are  as  the  smaller  dust  upon  the  balance ; 
are  less  than  nothing,  and  vanity. 

"  If  we  reverence  holiness^  the  Lord  of  Hosts  is  'glorious  in  holi- 
ness.* 0,  how  transcendendy  holy  is  tliat  Being,  who  lookcth  into 
the  moon,  and  it  shincth  not ;  yea,  the  stars  arc  not  pure  in  his  sight ; 
who  sees  defilement  in  the  brightness  of  the  firmament,  and  chaiges 
his  angels  with  folly.*  To  the  footstool  of  whose  throne,  not  the  most 
irreproachable  saint  may  draw  near,  but  only  tlirough  the  atonement 
and  intercession  of  a  Divine  Mediator. 

*'  Does  wisdom  challenge  our  esteem  ?  0,  *  the  depths  of  the 
riches  both  of  the  wisdom  and  knowledge  of  God  !*  He  has  ordered 
all  things,  through  heaven,  through  earth,  and  through  universal 
nature^  in  numbers,  weight,  and  measure.  But,  by  the  marvellous 
work  of  redemption,  he  has  brought  light  out  of  darkness  ;  fetched 
the  most  sovereign  good  from  the  most  destructive  evil ;  has  recon- 
ciled the  claims  of  inflcxiBlc  justice  with  the  overtures  of  unmerited 
mercy.  Hos  given  such  a  display  of  his  unsearchably  wise  counsels, 
as  the  highest  archangels  contemplate  with  amazement^  adoration^ 
and  joy. 

^'l^  goodness  amiable  ?  How  superabundant  is  the  goodness  of  tlie 
Lord  !  To  give  us  a  world  for  our  accommodation,  enriched  with 
innumerable  conveniences^  adorned  with  inniunerable  beauties,  is  a 
small  thing  for  the  God  of  love.  He  has  prepared  a  heaven  of  hap- 
piness, and  mansions  of  immortal  glory,  for  our  final  reception.  Is 
not  this  enough  ?— -enough,  one  would  think,  to  charm  our  hearts,  and 
moke  them  glow  with  gratitude.  Yet  not  nearly  enough  for  the 
boundless  beneficence  of  our  God.  He  spared  us  when  we  deserved 
everlasting  punishment.  He  loved  us  when  we  were  altogether  be- 
come abominable.  So  immensely^  so  inconceivably  did  he  love  us, 
apostates  and  rebels  as  wo  were,  that  ho  gave  his  Son,  his  Son  beyond 
thought  illustrious,  to  die  in  our  stead,  and  to  make  a  reconciliation 
for  our  iniquities. 

*'  My  paper  shortens,  and  my  subject  increases.  I  roust  therefore 
refrain.  Only  I  pray  that  your  Ladyship  may  enjoy,  every  day,  every 
hour,  every  moment,  richer  manifestations  of  this  adorable  God,  and 
of  Jesus  Christ,  whom  he  hath  sent.  May  your  Ladyship  delight 
yourself  in  this  unutterably  excellent  Being,  and  may  He  give  you  the 
desire  of  your  heart !  Your  Ladyship's  desire,  I  am  persuaded,  is, 
that  you  may  be  conformed  to  His  lovely  image,  and  resigned  to  His 
blessed  will.      My  desire,  and  the  desire  of  thousands,  to  whom  your 


SELINA)   COUNTERS  OF    HUNTINGDON.  125 

into  a  prayer  for  your  Ladyship,  by  your  Ladyship's  most  obliged  and 
most  dutiful  servant, 

'<  Jambs  Hervey." 

To  return  to  Mr.  Whitefield.  From  Bristol  he  proceeded  to 
the  Land's  End,  preaching  at  a  great  many  places  by  the  way. 
From  St.  Ginny's  he  writes  thus : — 

''  I  preached  at  Tavistock  on  my  way  hither,  and  yesterday  was  a 
glorious  day  of  the  Son  of  Man.  Our  Lord  gave  us  to  see  his  stately 
steps  and  outdoings  in  the  sanctuary.  Four  of  Mr.  Wesle/s  preachers 
were  present,  and  also  four  clergymen  in  their  gowns  and  cassocks; 
Mr.  Bennett,  aged  four-score,  Mr.  Thompson,  Mr.  Grigg,  and  m3rself. 
Mr.  Thompson  desired  that  his  most  dutiful  respects  might  be  pre- 
sented to  your  Ladyship.  Blessed  be  God  that  you  are  better.  I  am 
not  forgetful  of  -you  by  night  or  by  day.  I  hope  the  souls  of  your 
honoured  sisters  do  prosper ;  and  that  you  will  yet  live  to  see  Jesus 
Christ  formed  in  the  hearts  of  all  your  relations.  That  every  thing 
your  Ladyship  writes,  says,  or  does,  may  be  mightily  owned  and 
blessed  by  the  Redeemer,  is  the  continual  prayer  of  your  Ladyship's 
most  obliged  and  ready  servant,  for  Christ's  sake." 

One  reason  for  Mr.  Whitefield's  visit  to  the  West,  at  this 
time,  was  to  see  how  his  letter  to  the  *  Bishop  of  Exeter  had 
been  received.  He  found,  in  his  own  circle  there,  that  it  had 
been  "  much  blest"  He  learnt  also,  that  "  my  Lord  of  Exeter 
had  said,  he  writes  like  an  honest  man,  and  had  recanted  several 
things ;  but,'*  added  Lavington,  "  he  goes  on  in  the  same  way 
yet."  He  did.  He  went  to  Exeter,  and  appeared  in  the  Jields 
again.  The  Bishop,  therefore,  threatened  another  pamphlet. 
Lavington  could  do  no  more  against  Methodists  than  write. 
Mr.  Thompson,  Vicar  of  St.  Ginny's,  the  intimate  friend  of  Lady 
Huntingdon,  Mr.  Whitefield,  Mr.  Wesley,  and  Mr.  Hervey — 
was  educated  at  Exeter  College,  Oxford  ;  and  after  entering  mto 
orders,  became  Chaplain  to  the  "  Tiger"  man-of-war,  in  which 
he  went  to  America.  On  his  return  to  England  he  became 
incumbent  of  St.  Ginny's — near  Camelford,  in  Cornwall,  and 
succeeded  to  a  family  estatte  of  about  five  hundred  pounds  a 
year.  He  was  a  first-rate  genius,  and  much  caressed  by  neigh- 
bouring ministers  and  gentry ;  but  was  a  very  gay,  dissipated 
young  man.  In  the  midst  of  his  debaucheries  he  had  the  fol- 
lowing dream : — "  This  day  month,  at  six  in  the.  afternoon,  you 
must  appear  before  the  judgment  of  Christ,  to  give  an  account 
of  the  dreadful  abuse  of  all  your  talents,  and  the  injuries  done 
to  the  souls  committed  to  your  care."  This  remarkable  dream, 
twice  repeated,  with  circumstances  of  great  terror,  was  the 
means  of  his  conversion.  He  was  now  filled  with  a  burning 
zeal  for  the  honour  of  God,  and  loye  for  immortal  souls.    He 


iSd  THIS  LIFE  AND  TlMfiS  OF 

returned  to  his  pulpit,  and  commenced  preaching  experimentally 
the  doctrine  of  man's  fall,  sin,  and  misery ;  the  necessity  of 
regeneration;  the  imputation  of  Christ's  righteousness;  the 
necessity  of  holiness  as  the  evidence  of  acceptance  before  a 
holy  God ;  and  the  absolute  need  of  the  energy  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  to  begin  and  carry  on  a  saving  change  in  the  heart  and 
life.  The  hand  of  the  Cord  remarkably  sealed  the  promulga- 
tion of  these  doctrines  in  the  conversion  of  numbers  in  his 
parish.  In  March  1748,  all  the  neighbouring  ministers  shut 
their  pulpit  doors  against  him ;  and  he  was  soon  after  sum- 
moned before  his  diodesan  to  answer  the  charges  made  against 
him*  The  Bishop  threatened  to  "  strip  the  gown  from  him" 
for  his  •*  Methodistical  practices,'*  and  for  daring  to  counte- 
nfttice  Mr.  Whitefield.  His  Lordship  was  saved  the  trouble ;  for 
that  moment,  Mr.  Thompson  stripped  himself,  and  throwing 
the  gown  at  Lavington's  feet,  said,  "  I  can  preach  the  Gospel 
without  a  gown  ;"*  and  retired.  Astonished  at  such  indepen- 
dent conduct,  the  Bishop  stood  amazed,  and  on  recovering 
his  surprise,  sent  for  Mr.  Thompson,  and  soothed  him  :  but  he 
indemnified  himself  for  his  condescension,  by  publishing  im- 
mediately the  second  part  of  his  "Enthusiasm  Compared." 
Mr.  Whitefield  had  good  reason,  as  well  as  great  provocation, 
to  say  of  both  parts,  "The  Bishop  has  served  the  Metliodists 
as  the  Bishop  of  Constance  served  John  Huss,  when  he  ordered 
paitited  devils  to  be  ^ut  round  his  head  before  burning  him." 
He  did  not  answer  him*     He  did  better.     He  went  to  Exeter, 

*  Dr.  Doddridge  in  his  *<  Life  of  Colonel  Gardiner,"  alludes  to  Mr.  Tbomp- 
son  when  he  says, '  The  conversion  of  Colonel  Gardiner  is  not  altogether  sin- 
gular. There  is  at  least  a  second,  whose  story  may  be  told  whenever  the 
£stttblished  Church  shall  lose  one  of  its  brightest  liring  ornaments,  and  one  of 
the  most  useftd  meinbers  which  that,  or  perhaps  any  Christian  communion, 
can  boast.*  Remarking  on  this  passage,  the  late  Mr.  Palmer,  of  Hackney,  in 
his  correspondenoe  with  Mr.  Newton,  has  supposed  Mr.  Grimshaw  was  the 
clergyntiui  referred  to;  but  Mr.  Davidson,  who,  in  June  1748,  had  the  account 
from  Dr.  Doddridge^s  oWn  mouth,  says  it  was  Mr.  Thompson.  Mr.  llcrvey, 
durinff  his  residence  at  Bideford,  was  intimate  with  Mr.  Thompson,  to  whose 
reVisiu  were  submitted  his  **  Meditations  and  Reflections,"  and  the  first  vuhimo 
of  his  "  Meditations**  was  dedicated  to  Mr.  Thompson*!)  eldest  daughter.  Mr. 
Thompson  died  in  1781,  and  his  widow,  a  very  pious  and  amiable  woman,  in 
1786.  (Se«  some  interesting  particulars  of  his  life  in  "  Zion*s  Trumpet,"  a 
periodical  published  in  1800.)  Mis  letter  to  Dr.  Watts,  printed  in  "  Dr.  Gib- 
bon*8  Memoirs,**  is  Well  worth  perusal,  and  a  volume  of  his  religious  poems  was 
pablisbed  without  his  name,  by  the  Rev.  Samuel  Furlong,  of  St.  Ruche.  Mr. 
Thompson  lost  his  sight  several  years  before  his  death  ;  and,  although  he  had 
joined  himself  to  a  church  of  the  tJnited  Brethren,  retained  his  living,  and  con- 
tinued active  and  useful  in  his  parish.  He  was  a  visiter  and  correspondent  of 
the  Countess^  and  a  man  of  lively  passions  and  of  jocular  discourse,  ond  his 
♦ical  abilities  were  considerable.  When  Mr.  Whitefield  or  Mr.  Wesley 
ed  Cornwall,  he  itinerated  With  them,  and  was  made  instrumental  in  the 
ini9li  Of  kk  Migbbmv,  the  Rer.  W.  HiU|  of  Tavistock. 


SELINAi  C0UNT£S8  07  HUNTIKODON.  127 

accompanied  by  a  rural  Dean$  to  preach  the  Gospel  as  usual, 
and  divine  influence  accompanied  the  word.  *'  This,  (he  says) 
iS)  I  think)  the  best  way  to  answer  those  who  oppose  them- 
selves/' He  preached  there  twice  on  the  same  day.  In  the 
evening,  the  Bishop  and  several  of  his  Clergy  stood  near  to  him, 
and  saw  ten  thousand  persons  awestruck  by  his  appeals*  They 
saw  also  three  large  stones  thrown  in  succession  at  his  head, 
by  a  furious  drunkard,  one  of  which  cut  him  severely;  but 
neither  the  high-priest  nor  his  Levites  interfered,  although  one 
of  their  own  parisnioners  also  was  felled  to  the  ground  at  the 
same  time. 

These  particulars  are  detailed  in  a  letter  from  Mr.  Whitefield 
to  Lady  Huntingdon. 

About  this  period  Lady  Huntingdon  received  the  melancholy 
intelligence  of  the  death  of  the  Duke  of  Somerset,  which  occurred 
on  the  7th  of  February,  at  Percy  Lodge,  near  Colnbrook. 
"  Truly  (writes  her  Ladyship)  I  sympathize  with  my  beloved 
Duchess  on  the  loss  of  such  a  husoand,  who  was  not  more  dis- 
tinmiished  for  his  high  birth  and  exalted  rank,  than  for  gene- 
rosity, affability,  and  every  amiable  Quality  which  can  render  a 
nobleman  beloved  and  esteemed."  For  some  time  previous  to 
his  decease,  his  Grace  was  afflicted  with  severe  pain,  which  he 
was  enabled  to  bear  with  the  utmost  patience  and  sweetness  of 
temper.  He  was  a  man  of  real  piety,  and  presented  to  the 
view  of  every  noble  person  a  pattern  worthy  of  imitation.  Mis 
end  was  peace  :  and  in  his  last  moments  he  displayed  such  a 
calmness,  composure,  and  resignedness,  such  a  heroic  fortitude 
and  constancy  in  death,  as  excited  admiration,  and  left  a  glorious 
proof  of  the  powerful  support  with  which  the  faith  and  nope  of 
the  real  Christian  will  furnish  the  good  man  in  his  most  destitute 
and  latest  moments. 

On  the  decease  of  the  Duke,  her  Grace  retired  to  "  Percy 
Lodge,''  the  place  so  often  mentioned  in  the  works  of  Shen- 
stone,  Thomson,  and  other  poets  of  her  time,  by  whom  she 
was  deservedly  admired  and  celebrated  for  her  fine  taste^  distin- 
guished genius,  amiable  manners,  and  exalted  virtues.  It  was 
at  Bath  that  Lady  Huntingdon  first  became  acquainted  with  the 
Duchess,  to  whom  she  was  introduced  by  the  Dowager  Lady 
Hyndford,  when  a  filendship  commenced  that  continued  unin^ 
terrupted  to  the  death  of  her  Grace,  which  took  place  a  few 
years  after.* 

*  Before  lier  fotmal  introduction,  bowever,  the  Countess  had  exchang(*d 
letters  with  her  Grace,  at  the  express  request  of  the  Rer.  Moses  Browne,  who 
acted  as  the  Duke's  chaphun,  wl^n  his  Grace  did  not  himself  officiate  in  that 
capacity ;  for  he  thought  it  not  unbecoming  his  ttakioii  ••  •  peer  of  th«  rethtt 


128  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

Her  Grace's  acquaintance  with  Lady  Huntingdon  was  the 
means,  under  God^  of  leading  her  to  a  saving  knowledge  of  the 
Gosjpel  before  she  was  removed  hence.  Mr.  Whitefield,  writing 
to  Governor  Belcher,  speaking  of  Lady  Huntingdon,  says : — 
«  Her  Ladyship  corresponds  wifli  the  Duchess  of  Somerset,  but 
I  fear  the  latter  doth  not  yet  glory  in  the  cross  of  Christ  so  much 
as  might  be  wished.  You  know  we  must  have  true  self-denial 
and  a  disinterested  spirit,  before  we  can  be  sincerely  willing  to 
be  accounted  fools  for  Christ's  sake." 


CHAPTER  IX. 

Earthquake  in  London — Mr.  Romaine,  his  popularity— Lord  Northampton-^ 
The  King*8  Coachman — Lady  Huntingdon  appoints  Mr.  Romaine  her  Chap- 
lain— Ashby-place— Dr.  Stonhouse— Dr.  Akenside— New  Jersey  College- 
Governor  Belcher— President  Burr— Dissenting  Ministers— Dr.  Doddridge 
—Education  of  Ministers— Mrs.  Hester  Gibbon  ^Mr.  Law— Mr.  Whitefield 
— Success  of  his  Ministry  at  Rotherham — Dr.  Doddridge  dedicates  his  Sermon 
to  Lady  Huntingdon— Lord  Lyttleton— Mr.  Hervey— Dr.  Doddridge  visiu 
Ashby— Singular  Accident— Lady  Stonhouse— Colonel  and  Mr.  Galatin — 
Dr.  Cotton — Miss  Hotham. 

Events  of  a  most  disastrous  and  terrifying  nature  had  at  this 
time  spread  a  general  alarm,  and  awakened  the  most  stohd  in 
the  metropolis  to  a  sense  of  danger.  The  earthquake  by  which 
Lisbon  was  destroyed,  the  shocks  felt  in  London,  and  the  false 
alarm  excited  by  pretended  prophecies  of  still  greater  devasta- 
tion, had  filled  many  with  terror,  whom  they  could  not  bring  to 
repentance.  These  signal  judgments  of  Jenovah  were  preceded 
by  great  profligacy  of  manners,  and  its  fruitful  parent,  licentious- 
ness of  principle.  Iniquity  stalked  with  brazen  front  through 
the  streets ;  and  error,  in  ten  thousand  forms,  vented  its  unsoft- 
ened  blasphemies  against  God  and  his  Messiah. 

to  lead  the  prayers  of  his  family.     Mr.  Browne  was  an  eye-witness  of  the 

Duke*8  Angular  worth,  and  had  begun  to  taste  his  favours  when  he  was  taken 

♦a  his  eternal  rest.    "  Had  the  Duke  lired  (observes  Mr.  Hervey)  poor  Browne 

dd  have  met  with  the  encouragement  he  deserves.     He  loved  and  fully 

ded  to  have  served  him.*'   A  short  poem,  called  *'  Percy  Hill,**  was  written 

r.  Browne,  at  the  request  of  the  Duke  and  Duchess,  but  was  not  published 

756,  after  the  death  of  both. 


SELINA,  GOtJNTESS  OF  HUNTIKGDOK.  129 

^*  As  to  faitby  (says  one  who  preached  on  that  occasion),)  is  not  the 
doctrine  of  the  Trinity,  and  that  of  the  Divinity  of  our  Lord  and  Sa- 
viour, without  which  our  redemption  is  absolutely  void,  and  we  are  yet 
in  our  sins^  lying  under  the  intolerable  burden  of  ^e  wrath  of  God, 
blasphemed  and  ridiculed  openly  in  conversation  and  in  print  ?  And 
as  to  righteousness  of  life,  are  not  the  people  of  this  land  dead  in  tres- 
passes and  sins  ?  Idleness,  drunkenness^  luxury,  extravagance,  and 
debauchery :  for  these  things  cometh  the  wrath  of  God,  and  disordered 
nature  proclaims  the  impending  'distress  and  perplexity  of  nations. 
And,  0,  may  we  of  this  nation  never  read  a  hanawritinff  upon  the  wall 
of  heaven  in  illuminated  capitals  of  the  Almighty— Mens,  Mens, 
Tekel,  Uphabsin  :  God  hath  numbered  the  kingdom,  and  finished  it. 
Thou  art  weighed  in  the  balances  of  Heaven,  and  found  wanting  the 
merits  of  a  rejected  Redeemer^  and  therefore  the  kingdom  is  divided 
and  given  away."* 

The  shocks  felt  in  London  at  this  time  were  considerably 
more  violent  than  any  remembered  for  a  great  number  of  years : 
the  earth  moved  westward,  then  east,  then  westward  again, 
through  all  London  and  Westminster.  It  was  a  strong  and 
jarring  motion,  attended  with  a  rumbling  noise  like  that  of 
thunder.  Many  houses  were  much  shaken,  and  some  chimneys, 
thrown  down,  but  without  any  further  hurt.  Multitudes  of 
every  description  fled  from  the  city  with  astonishing  precipita- 
tion, and  others  repaired  to  the  fields  and  open  places  in  the 
city.  Tower  Hill,  Moorfields,  and,  above  all,  Hyae  Park,  were 
crowded  with  men,  women,  and  children,  who  remained  there  a 
whole  night  under  direful  apprehensions.  Places  of  worship 
were  thronged  with  frightened  sinners,  especially  the  chapels 
of  the  Methodists,  where  multitudes  came  all  night  knocking  at 
the  doors  and  begging  admittance  for  God's  sake.  The  con- 
vulsions of  nature  are  always  regarded  by  enthusiasts  and 
fanatics  as  the  sure  harbingers  of  its  final  dissolution.  A  soldier 
"  had  a  revelation"  that  a  great  part  of  London  and  West- 
minster would  be  destroyed  by  an  earthquake  on  a  certain  night, 
between  the  hours  of  twelve  and  one  o'clock.  In  consequence  of 
his  assertion  thousands  fled  from  the  city  for  fear  of  being  sud- 
denly overwhelmed,  and  repaired  to  the  fields,  where  they  con- 
tinued all  night,  in  momentary  expectation  of  beholding  the 
prophecy  fulfilled :  whilst  thousands  ran  about  the  streets  in  the 
most  wild  and  frantic  state  of  consternation,  quite  certain  that 
the   day   of  judgment  was    about   to  commence :    the   scene 

•  See  a  Sermon  preached  before  the  University  of  Oxford,  and  at  several 
other  places,  on  occasion  of  the  late  earthquakes,  by  George  Home,  M.A.,  Fel- 
low of  Magdalen  College,  afterwards  Dean  of  Canterbury,  and  Bishop  of 
Norwich. 

VOL.  I.— K 


IM  Wl  UM  kSb  ¥iM:l  ol^ 

wfts  thily  awAil.  F\s^r  fill^  the  chapels  of  thd  Mi^thodistl  with 
persons  of  eve^y  description.  Mt.  Charles  Wesley,  who  was 
then  in  London,  preacned  incessantly,  and  very  maay  were 
jawakened  to  a  sense  of  their  awlFiil  condition  beK)re  God^  and 
led  to  rest  their  hopes  of  eternal  salvation  on  the  Rock  of  Ages. 
Mr.  Whitefield,  animated  with  that  burning  charity  which  shone 
«9  conspicuously  in  him,  ventured  out  at  midnight  to  Hyde 
Park,  where  he  proclaimed  to  the  affrighted  and  astonished 
tomltitudes  the  most  essential  and  important  intelligence  that 
%veT  assailed  the  ear  of  mortals — that  there  is  a  Saviour,  Christ 
the  Lord.  The  darkness  of  the  night,  and  the  awtiil  horrors  of 
an  approaching  earthquake,  added  much  to  the  solemnity  of  the 
scene.  The  sermon  was  truly  sublime,  and  to  the  ungodly 
sinner,  the  self-righteous  pharisee,  and  the  artfiil  hj-pocrite, 
fitrikindy  terrific.  With  a  pathos  that  bespoke  the  fervour  of 
liis  soul,  and  with  a  grand  majestic  voice  that  commanded  at- 
tention, he  took  occasion  from  the  circumstances  of  their  a?sem- 
bling  to  call  the  attention  of  the  surrounding  thousands  to  that 
toost  important  event,  in  which  every  soul  will  be  essentially 
IMid  particularly  concerned,  namely,  the  grand  final  consum- 
mation of  all  tnings,  the  universal  wreck  of  nature,  the  disso- 
lution of  this  lower  world,  and  the  confirming  and  fixing  the 
eternal  and  unalterable  state  of  every  son  and  daughter  of  Adam. 
The  awful  manner  in  which  he  addressed  the  careless,  Christ- 
iess  sinner,  the  sublimity  of  the  discourse,  and  thet^ppearancc  of 
the  place,  added  to  the  gloom  of  the  night,  combined  to  impress 
Ihe  mind  with  seriousness,  and  to  render  the  event  solemn  and 
memorable  in  the  highest  degree.  Among  those  who  feiilcd  not 
to  improve  these  a^'ful  providences  was  Mr.  Romaine,  who  then 
published  his  **  Alarm  to  a  Careless  World,"  and  "  The  Dutv 
of  Watchfulness  enforced,**  subjects  treated  so  nobly,  and  vtith 
6tich  awful  views  of  our  state  and  danger,  that  the  two  dis- 
courses remain,  not  merely  the  temporary  warnings  of  the  day, 
but  equally  applicable  at  the  present  time  to  the  inhabitants  of 
the  great  metropolis,  where  the  sins  that  bring  down  God's 

{'udgment,  and  the  number  of  those  who  commit  them,  seem  to 
lave  gone  on  in  an  increasing  ratio,  and  the  same  punishment 
for  which  can  be  delayed  or  averted  only  by  the  piety  and 
pVayers  of  such  men  as  Mr.  Whitefield  and  Mr.  Romaine. 

We  must  brave  abuse  when  speaking  the  truth,  and  fear  not 
to  lay  open  the  nakedness  of  the  land,  because  of  the  enmity 
%hich  the  fidelity  of  our  narrative  may  excite.  It  may  be  a 
Wld,  but  it  is  nevertheless  a  faithful  assertion^  that  Mr.  Romaine 
was,  at  the  time  of  which  we  speak,  almost,  if  not  altogether, 
singular  in  the  testimony  be  bore  for  Christ  in  tke  Cburoh  of 


SELINl^  COUMTEM  07  HUVTINGDON.  131 

England  in  this  metropolis.  The  Methodists  had  indeed 
awakened  great  attention ;  they  had  at  their  commencement 
attracted  immense  auditories  by  their  occasional  discourses  in 
the  different  churches  to  which  they  were  invited ;  but  as  no 
one  of  them  had  any  church  settlement  in  the  metropolis 
which  could  be  considered  as  legally  his  own,  the  doors  of  the 
Church  were  soon  closed  against  them,  and  they  were  driren 
into  the  fields,  or  into  the  chapels  of  their  own  erection,  whither 
they  whom  their  ministry  had  awakened  fled  for  re&ge,  resolved 
to  hear  the  Gospel  wheresoever  it  should  be  preadied,  rather 
than  be  confined  to  mere  morals  and  the  husks  of  formality. 
They  who  have  once  tasted  that  the  Lord  is  gracious  must  have 
the  bread  of  life,  and  they  will  seek  it  even  in  Egypt 

Mr.  Romaine,  who  had  descended  from  the  stilts  of  self-taught 
excellence,  and  the  enticing  words  of  man's  wisdom,  to  the  plain- 
ness and  simplicity  of  the  doctrine  of  the  Cross,  determined 
henceforth  to  know  nothing  else  but  Jesus  Christ,  and  hiin  cru- 
cified ;  and  God  immediately  began  to  bless  his  testimony  wiiii 
the  signs  of  conversion.  He  had  been  elected  to  St.  Duiistan's 
somewhat  before  his  appointment  to  St  Geoige's,  Hanovier- 
square,  and  at  both  places  the  word  of  Lord,  preached  in 
the  light  of  love,  was  glorified.  Mr.  Romaine's  now  eminent 
position  drew  attention — to  his  voice,  his  manner,  and  more 
especially  to  the  subjects  he  treated,  to  the  dissimilarity  of  all 
around  him  to  vrfiat  was  observed  in  other  churches.  Although 
he  still  adhered  to  the  written  sermon,  he  delivered  it  witfi 
energy  and  pathos,  and  mat  and  small  bore  testimony  to  die 
power  with  wfaidi  he  spake.  The  Gospel  from  his  mouth  ap- 
peared to  them  another  gospd  from  that  which  tliey  had  iieard 
before.  His  fame  spread — multitudes  thronged  around  him ; 
the  church  was  crowded,  the  parishioners  incommoded  ;*  the 
merely  formal  among  the  clei^  were  tacitly  r^roved  by  his 
example,  so  opposite  to  theirs ;  a  conspiracy  was  formed  to 
remove  him,  and  the  Rector,  wrought  upon  bv  his  enemies,  was 
induced  to  dismiss  him,  on  no  ottier  grouna  than  that  he  had 
ceaied  not  to  preach  and  to  teach  the  Uo^l  of  Christ  Jesus. 
Among  the  members  of  the  congrc^tion,  who  continued  sted- 
fut  to  Air.  Romahie,  was  Mr.  Jolm  SEuidersoD,  many  j«ars  statc- 
coachman  to  George  HI.    He  exemplified  in  himself  tlie  Ufsj 

*  Amoitf  them  wts  the  old  Eaii  of  Northampton,  who  well  rebuked  those 
who  comfiMMned  of  the  cfowdingin  the  Church  oi  God*  by  reminding  them  that 
tber  bore  the  gieeter  crowd  of  a  ball-room,  an  assembly,  or  a  {ilay-houae, 
without  the  leaat  com^aint.  *'  If  (he  said)  the  ^ower  to  attract  be  imputed  as 
matter  of  admiration  to  Garrick«  why  should  it  be  urged  as  a  crime  apkist 
Romaine?  Shall  excellence  be  comideied  ezcepUtasUe  only  in  divine  things?" 


192 


THE  LITE  AND  TDtES  OT 


the  Kolk,  and  i/ie  triumph  of  faith  so  excellently  described  by 
the  honoured  instrument  of  his  conTersion.  Of  this  indinduaJ, 
now  occupjing  a  place  before  Him  who  b  no  respecter  of  per- 
sons,  a  few  recollections  may  be  acceptable.  He  was  brought 
up  a  coachman,  and  although  in  his  dav  post-chains  were  in 
little  use,  yet  his  road-work,  such  as  drinnff  the  nobUity  down 
to  Bath,  &c^  had  already  pointed  him  out  lorgood  conduct  and 
recommended  him  to  favour,  when,  being  at  Exeter,  while  Mr. 
Cennick  was  preaching  in  the  streets,  a  new  motiye  for  the  exer- 
cise of  Christian  energy  was  afforded  him ;  the  preacher,  who 
had  already  been  ill-treated  by  the  mob,  was  expatiating  on  the 
blood  of  Christ,  when  a  ruffian  butcher,  excLimiiig  **if  you 
like  blood  you  shall  soon  have  enough  of  it,"  rushed  from  his 
shop  with  a  jmuI  neariy  full  of  blood,  which  he  would  have  cast 
on  Mr.  Cennick  had  not  Mr.  Sanderson  calmly  met  him,  and, 
suddenly  catching  the  pail,  poured  its  contents  over  the  man's 
own  head.  This  drew  the  attention  of  the  mob  from  the 
preacher  to  Mr.  Sanderson,  who  escaped  with  difficul^,  and  was 
obliged  to  leave  the  city  early  in  the  morning.  From  that 
moment  to  his  death,  wfiich  occurred  on  the  13th  of  August, 
1799,  in  the  d9th  year  of  his  age,  he  adorned  the  doctrine  he 
professed  by  a  conversation  such  as  becomcth  godliness. 

But  the  greatest  good  often  results  from  the  sufferings  and 
persecutions  of  God's  people ;  as  the  blood  of  the  Martyrs  has 
been  always  the  seed  of  the  Church.  Lord  Northampton,  who 
had  married  Lady  Huntingdon's  relative,  the  Baroness  Ferrars, 
of  Chartley,  grand-daughter  and  heir  of  Robert,  first  Earl  Fer- 
rars,* had  mentioned  Mr.  Romainc  with  high  commendation. 
He  spoke  of  his  doctrine  with  respect,  and  of  his  abilities  with 
admiration.  He  was  now  turned  out  of  St.  George's,  Hanover- 
square,  but,  reluctant  to  part  with  many  who  were  dear  to  him, 
and  who  wished  still  to  profit  by  his  labours,  he  met  them  at  the 
house  of  a  Mr.  Butcher;  for  which  pretended  irregularity,  being 
threatened  with  a  prosecution  in  the  most  apostolic  spiritual 
court,  the  excellent  Lady  Huntingdon,  supposing  she  had  a 
right  to  protect  him  from  this  fresti  opposition,  invited  him  to 
her  house  in  Park-street,  gave  him  her  scarf,  and  as  her  chap- 
lain ho   continued  long  to  preach  to  the  poor  in  her  kitchen 

Hi  Hill  lordship*!!  youugett  daughter,  Lady  Charlotte  Compton,  succeeded,  on 
the  tormiiintioii  of  the  abeyance,  by  the  demise  of  her  eldest  sister,  in  1749,  as 
lUironrsH  Ferrars,  of  Chartley,  ana  carried  that  barony  by  marriage,  in  1751, 
with  (leorpo,  firKt  Marquis  Townshend,  to  the  family  of  Townshend,  as  also 
tiio  Haroiiy  of  Coinpton,  on  the  demise  of  her  father,  in  1754.  The  Earl  of 
Northampton  died  without  issue  male,  Octobers,  1754.     His  attention  was 

Milled  to  the  concerns  of  an  eternal  world  by  the  preaching  of  Mr.  Whitefield  at 

bt  bouse  of  Lady  Huntingdon, 


SELIKA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON*  133 

unmolested;  as  he  did  afterwards  in  her  drawing-room,  to 
numbers  of  the  nobility  who  were  invited  by  her  Ladyship  to 
hear  the  Gospel ;  and  where  by  his  aid,  with  that  of  Mr.White- 
field,  the  seraphic  Mr.  Jones  of  St.  Saviour's,  Mr.  Wesley,  and 
others,  a  weekly  lecture  was  delivered  to  a  very  polite  circle. 
The  utility  of  these  labours  shortly  after  induced  the  Countess 
to  erect  or  open  a  variety  of  cnapels  at  Brighton,  Oathall, 
Bath,  and  Bretby,  in  all  which  Mr.  Komaine  zealously  laboured 
for  her  with  singular  benediction.  But  the  relation  of  these 
faithful  services,  and  the  great  success  attending  them,  must  be 
reserved  for  a  fitter  period  of  our  history,  with  the  observation 
that  God  never  fails  to  bring  still  greater  good  out  of  man':i 
enmity  and  opposition  to  his  Gospel.  "The  wrath  of  man 
shall  praise  him." 

To  return  to  the  earthquake.  During  that  awful  visitation 
Lady  Huntingdon  continued  at  Ashby-pTace,  much  indisposed. 
In  a  letter  to  ner  Ladyship,  Mr.  Whiteneld  says : — 

'^  God  has  been  terribly  shaking  the  metropolis.  I  hope  it  is  on 
earnest  of  his  giving  a  shock  to  secure  sinners,  and  making  them  to 
cry  out,  What  shall  we  do  to  be  saved?  I  trust,  honoured  Madam,  you 
have  been  brought  to  believe  on  the  Lord  Jesus,  and  have  experienced , 
the  beginning  of  a  real  salvation  in  your  heart.  What  a  mercy  is  this  I 
To  be  plucked  as  a  brand  out  of  the  burning — to  be  one  of  those  few 
mighty  and  noUe  that  are  called  effectually  by  the  grace  of  God ;  what 
consolation  must  this  administer  to  your  Ladyship  under  all  afflictions  I 
Wliat  can  shake  a  soul  whose  hopes  of  happiness,  in  time  and  in  eter- 
nity t  are  built  upon  the  Rock  of  Ages  ?  Winds  may  blow,  rains  may 
and  will  descend  even  upon  persons  of  the  most  exalted  stations ;  but 
they  that  trust  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  never  shall,  never  can,  be 
totally  confounded." 

In  a  letter  to  the  Countess  Delitz,  sister  to  the  excellent 
Lady  Chesterfield,  he  likewise  notices  the  awful  occurrences  in 
the  metropolis : — 

"  The  earthquake  hath  been  an  alarming  providence.  Happy  they 
that  have  an  interest  in  Christ,  and  are  always  ready  I  On  him  alone 
is  my  strength  and  safety  founded.  Did  not  this  support  and  comfort 
your  Ladyship  under  the  awful  alarm  ?  Go  on,  then,  honoured  Madam, 
and,  by  a  constant  looking  to  Jesus,  make  continual  advance  in  tho 
divine  life  which  I  believe  hath  been  communicated  to  you  from  above. 
The  more  you  see  of  his  excellences,  tho  more  will  all  created  things 
sicken  and  die  in  your  view  and  taste.  Wherever  I  am,  your  Lady- 
ship and  bonoored  sister,  with  the  other  honourable  ladies,  are  con- 
tinually remembered  by  me  at  the  throne  of  grace.  I  hope  all  are 
determined  with  full  purpose  of  heart  to  cleave  unto  the  Lord." 

Lady  Huntingdon's  indisposition  stiU  contiouing,  Mr.  White- 


1S4  TBI  UfE  AND  Timi  OF 

field  left  London  for  Ashby,  and  on  his  way  thither  had  an 
interview  with  Drs.  Stonhouse  and  Doddridge,  and  MesH% 
Hervey  and  Hartley. 

^  On  the  Tuesday  (883^8  Mr.  Whitefield)  I  preached  in  the  morning 
to  Dr.  Doddridge's  family,  and  in  the  aflcmoon  to  above  two  thonaand 
in  tbo  field.  Dr.  Stonbouso,  Mr.  Hervey,  &c.  attended  me,  and  walked 
with  me  afterwards  along  the  street ;  so  that  I  hope  the  physician  will 
now  turn  bis  back  on  the  world,  and  be  content  to  follow  a  deapiaed 
crucified  Redeemer  without  resorvft.  I  expounded  at  his  house  in  tbo 
evening,  and  am  hereafter  to  come  to  it  as  my  own.* 

Of  this  interview  Mr.  Hervey  has  preserved  the  following 
account : — 

*•  I  liave  seen  lately  that  most  excellent  minister  of  the  ever-blessed 
Jesus,  Mr.  Whitefield.  I  dined,  supped,  and  spent  the  evening  with 
Iiim  at  Northampton,  in  company  with  Dr.  Doddridge  and  two  pious 
ingenious  clergymen  of  the  Cnurcb  of  England,*  both  of  them  known 
to  the  learned  world  by  their  valuable  ^Titings.  And,  surely,  I  never 
spent  a  more  delightful  evening,  or  saw  one  tlmt  seemed  to  make  nearer 
approaches  to  the  felicity  of  heaven.  A  gentleman  of  great  wortli  and 
mnk  in  tlio  town  invited  us  to  his  house,  and  gave  us  an  elegant  treat ; 
but  how  mean  was  his  provision,  how  coarse  nis  delicaciea,  compare(l 
with  the  fruit  of  my  fnend*8  lips ! — they  dropped  as  the  honey-eomb. 
and  were  a  well  of  life.  Surely  ])eople  do  not  know  that  amiable  ana 
exemplary  man,  or  else,  I  cannot  but  think,  instead  of  depreciating, 
they  would  applaud  and  love  him.  For  my  part,  I  never  behold  so 
fair  a  copy  of  our  Lord,  such  a  living  image  of  the  Saviour^  such 
exalted  delight  in  God,  such  enlarged  benevolence  to  man,  such  a  steady 
faith  in  the  Divine  promises,  and  such  a  fervent  zeal  for  the  Divine 
glory ;  and  all  this  without  the  least  moroseness  of  humour,  or  extra^ 
vagances  of  behaviour,  sweetened  with  the  most  engaging  cheerfulness 
of  temper,  and  regulated  by  all  the  sobriety  of  reason  and  wisdom  of 
Scripture ;  insomuch,  that  I  cannot  forbear  applying  the  wise  man's 
encomium  of  an  illustrious  woman  to  tliis  eminent  minister  of  the  ever- 
lasting Gospel :  '  Many  sons  have  done  virtuously,  but  thou  excellest 
them  all.'  " 

On  Mr.  Whitefield's  arrival  at  AshbVf  he  found  the  Countess 
very  weak,  but  better  than  he  expected.  On  this,  as  on  a  former 
visit  to  Ashby,  some  of  the  baser  sort  were  stirred  up  to  riot 
before  her  Ladyship's  door  while  Mr.  Whitefield  was  preaching, 
and  some  persons  in  their  way  home  narrowly  escaped  being 
murdered.  A  ma^strate  resiaing  in  the  neighbourhood,  sent  a 
message  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  in  order  to  bring  the  offenders 
before  hinu  In  a  letter  to  Mrs.  Colonel  Galatin,  Mr, White- 
field  says :— » 

•  Dr.  Stonhouse  and  Mr.  Hartley. 


SELIN^t  COU^TEI^i  OF  VUNTINGDON.  ]^ 

*<  Good  Lady  Hmitingdo»  hutt.  heen  ill,  but  is  recovering.  There 
hath  been  an  awak.^ning  at  Ashby  j;  but  opposition  begins  to  show  itself 
in  these  parts  by  the  instrunfientality  of  a  Dissenting  Minister." 

To  another  of  his  correspondents  he  writes  thus  ;-rT 

^  For  a  few  days  I  have  been  at  good  Lady  Huntingdon's^  who* 
though  weak  in  body,  is' always  abounding  in  the  work  of  the  Lord 
I  preach  daily  at  her  Ladyuiip'a,  and  this  week,  Qod  willing,  I  shall 
preach  in  two  or  three  churches." 

After  Mr.  Whitefield  left  Ashby,  in  a  letter  to  her  Ladyship 
he  says  : — « 

^*  I  shall  be  clad  to  hear  what  becomes  of  the  rioters.  0  that  your 
Ladyship  may  five  to  see  many  of  those  Ashby  stones  become  phildre^ 
to  Abraham  r*  And  ^gain  :-r-'' Ungraceful  Adby  !  0,  that  thou 
knewcst  the  day  of  thy  visitation  !  Surely  your  Ladyship  may  shake 
off  the  dust  of  your  feet  against  them.  This  was  the  command  which 
the  meek  and  lowly  Jesus  gave  to  his  Apostles  where  the  Qospel  was 
not  received ;  and  he  himself  departed  when  the  Qadarenes  desiredi 
him  to  go  from  tlieir  coasts.  This  justifies  your  I^adyship  in  removing 
Mr.  Baddeley.  What  avails  throwing  pearls  before  swine,  who  only 
turn  agi^u  arid  rend  you  ?" 

In  a  subsequent  letter  he  writes  :^ 

''  Ever-honoured  Madam^ — The  Lord  as  yet  bath  but  begun  to  bless 
yo\i ;  ^au  ^att^  you  %haHy  you  mUbe  mwie  a  great  bletsing  itideed.  }f 
dear  Mr.  Hervey  gets  Ashby,  that  will  he  making  you  a  blessing.  | 
am  glad  that  both  he  and  Mr.  Doddridge  have  been  with  your  Lady- 
ship. I  would  have  all  good  ministers  come  and  visit  you ;  there  are 
numbers  ^ould  go  scores  of  miles  willingly  for  that  purpose.  Your 
Ladyship  hath  acted  like  yourself  in  forgiving  the  offenders ;  such 
offences  come  that  Christ's  followers  may  give  evidence  of  his  blessed 
temper  being  wroueht  in  their  hearts.  Your  letter  revived  my  heart, 
and  gave  me  some  nesh  hopes  for  ungrateful  Ashby." 

To  his  friend  and  correspondent,  Lady  Gertrude  Hothanii 
Mr,  Whitefleld  says : — 

''  Good  Lady  Huntingdon  I  left  some  time  ago,  weak  in  body,  but 
strong  in  the  grace  which  is  in  Jesus  Christ.  Thousands  and  thousands 
Rocked  to  hear  the  word  twice  every  day,  and  ^he  power  of  God  has 
attended  it  in  a  glorious  mn^nner.  But  the  good  people  of  Ashby  were 
so  kind  as  to  mob  round  hev  Ladydiip's  doov  wnilsl  the  Gospel  wm 
preaching,  Alas !  hpw  great  and  inreooneileable  is  die  enmity  of  the 
serpepi  I  This  is  P^  ^omfhrt — the  9ee4  of  the  ^oman  fih^ll  at  ]ength 
be  mw0  Aan  opAOu^cir  ovef  all.  He?  l^/^ip  WlQ  f^t  liye^  I  trvfi^^ 
to  declare  the  worka  of  the  hwi,  AlhbjF  »  W^  Wm^y  ef  so  mb  ft 
pearl,  'fhe  OountMS  tokd  Lady  Panpf  weie  constantly  remembered 
Ht  Ashby  «  ft©  boly  tt^ble,"* 

•  Some  years  aitei  a  chapel  in  Lady  HmliSI^OIl'i  ftWIPgft  WP  WWi 


136  THE  LIFE  AND  TIBfES  OF 

About  the  period  that  Dr.  Stonhouse*  and  Dr.  Akenside, 
author  of  the  "  Pleasures  of  Imagination,"  came  to  reside  at 
Northampton,  the  Rev.  James  Hervejr  had  also  removed  to  that 
part  of  tne  country,  and  his  preaching  began  to  be  attended 
with  signal  success.  Mr.  Whitefield  soon  after  paid  a  visit  to 
Northampton,  and  was  invited  by  Dr.  Doddridge  to  preach  in 
his  pulpit.     This  gave  violent  ofience,  and  exposed  the  Doctor 

at  Ashby,  and  supplied  by  clergymen  and  students  from  Trevecca.  In  the 
summer  of  1784  Mr.  Wills  preached  there  to  a  very  large  congregation,  on  these 
words — "  How  can  man  be  justified  with  God  ?"  Job  xxv.  4.  "  It  is  very  re- 
markable (says  Mr.  Wills),  that  so  long  ago  as  when  dear  Lady  Huntingdon 
resided  in  this  town,  though  it  is  one  of  the  manors  belonging  to  Lord  Hunting- 
don's family,  nothing  could  exceed  the  enmity  shoHTi  against  the  Gospel, 
and  even  personally  to  her  Ladyship,  on  many  occasions ;  but  now  this  publie 
opposition  appears  to  be  at  an  end ;  at  least  I  met  with  nothing  of  the  kind.** 
— ^The  old  cbapel  being  very  much  out  of  repair  and  too  small,  a  new  one  was 
erected,  and  opened  in  July  1825,  on  which  occasion  Dr.  Collyer  preached 
morning  and  evening  to  respectable  and  numerous  congregations. 

*  Dr.  Stonhouse,  afterwards  so  well  known  as  the  Rev.  Sir  James  Stonhoose, 
Bart,  Rector  of  Great  and  Little  Cheveril,  Wilto,  had  his  education  at  Win- 
Chester  School ;  and  was,  afterwards,  of  St.  John*8  College,  Oxford.     He  had 
his  medical  education  under  Dr.  Nicholls,  the  celebrated  anatomist,  and  Pro* 
fessor  of  Anatomy,  in  Oxford.     He  was  a  deist,  and  took  great  pains  to  instil 
his  pernicious  principles  into  the  minds  of  his  pupils.    **  tfnder  him  (said  Dr. 
Stonhouse)  I  commenced  infideL**    During  the  years  that  he  remained  in  this 
awful  state  of  delusion,  he  did  all  he  could  to  subvert  Christianity,  and  wrote 
a  keen  pamphlet  against  it ;  "  for  writing  and  spreading  of  which  (says  he,)  I 
humbly  hope  God  has  forgiven  me,  though  I  never  can  forgive  myself.**     Hi^ 
conversion  to  Christianity,  and  the  various  circumstances  attending  it,  were 
such,  that  he  was  persuaded  to  write  the  history  of  his  life,  with  many  reflec- 
tions on  the  several  circumstances  of  it.     He  kept  this  bv  him  for  some  years, 
altering  and  adding^,  as  his  recollection  enabled  him.     He  read  it  occasionally 
to  some  of  his  intimate  friends,  who  highly  approved  of  it ;  and  it  was  his 
intention  that  it  should  have  been  printed  soon  after  his  death,  not  through 
vanity,  but  as  a  public  acknowledgment  of  his  heinous  offences  against  God, 
and  his  hope  of  pardon  through  a  crucified  Redeemer.     But  on  reading  it  to  a 
person  for  whose  judgment  he  had  the  highest  regard,  he  gave  the  Doctor  such 
valid  reasons  against  the  publication,  that  he  burnt  it  soon  after,  lest  an  ill  use 
should  have  been  made  of  it  after  his  decease.     In  a  letter  to  a  friend,  speaking 
of  this  event.  Dr.  Doddridge  expresses  himself  in  the  following  manner:.— 
*'  One  of  the  most  signal  instances  in  which  God  has  ever  honoured  me,  is  in  the 
conversion  of  a  physician,  in  this  town,  who  was  once  free  in  his  manner  of 
living,  and  a  confirmed  deist.     God  made  me  the  means  of  first  bringing  him 
to  a  conviction  of  the  truth  of  Christianity,  and  at  length  of  enlightening  his 
mind  with  the  true  and  saving  knowledge  of  Christ,  to  which  I  bless  God  he 
has  now  attained.    Good  Mr.  Hervey  has  been  honoured  as  a  fellow-labourer 
with  me  in  this  work.    My  book  on  the  *  Rise  and  Progress  of  Religion '  has 
been,  I  hope,  honoured  of  God,  as  one  great  means  of  producing  this  blessed 
change."    A  full  account  of  Dr.  Stonhouse,  and  the  circumstances  of  his  con- 
version from  infidelity,  may  be  found  in  "  Hervey's  Letters,"  "  Doddridge's 
Letters,**  and  "  Letters  from  Sir  James  Stonhouse  to  the  Rev.  Thomas  Sted- 
man,  Vicar  of  St  Chad's,  Shrewsbury.'*  Mr.  Hervey 's  letters  on  his  ordination, 
first  as  deacon,  by  the  Bishop  of  Hereford,  and  then  as  priest,  by  the  Bishop  of 
Bristol ;  the  letters  of  Mr.Whitefield  and  Ladv  Huntingdon  ;  and  the  death  of 
his  wife  (the  eldest  daughter  of  J.  Neal,  Esq.,  M.P.  for  Coventry),  were  among 
he  things  that  led  to  his  convertion. 


SELINA)    COITKTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  137 

to  the  censure  and  expostulations  of  many  of  his  brethren  in 
the  ministry :  but  the  christian  simplicity  and  gentle  firmness 
with  which  Dr.  Doddridge  defended  himself  and  two  of  his 
pupils,  Mr.  Darracott  and  Mr.'Fawcett,  from  the  unmerited  and 
bigoted  reproaches  with  which  his  moderate  conduct  towards 
the  Methodists  had  been  assailed,  reflects  the  highest  credit  on 
his  character.  The  wrath  manifested  towards  him  was  unrea- 
sonable ;  for  Mr.  Whitefield's  visit  at  Northampton  was  rather 
to  his  old  friend  and  brother  churchman,  the  mgenious  author 
of  the  "  Meditations." 

Dr.  Johnson,  in  his  "  Lives  of  the  Poets,"  speaking  of  Aken- 
side,  observes,  "  Being  now  to  live  by  his  profession,  he  first 
commenced  physician,  at  Northampton,  where  Dr.  Stonhouse 
then  practised  with  such  reputation  and  success,  that  a  stranger 
was  not  likely  to  ^dn  ground  upon  him."  Dr.  Akenside  was 
patronized  by  the  Huntingdon  family,  and  an  Ode  was  addressed 
by  him  to  tlie  young  Lord  Hastings,  afterwards  Earl  of  Hun- 
tingdon. Encouraged  by  such  patronage,  he  tried  the  contest 
with  Dr.  Stonhouse  for  a  time ;  but  his  unnecessary  zeal  for 
what  he  called  and  thought  liberty,  disgusted  Lord  Huntingdon: 
^<  A  zeal  (says  Dr.  Johnson)  which  sometimes  disguises  from 
the  world,  and  not  rarely  from  the  mind  which  it  possesses,  an 
anxious  desire  of  plundering  wealth  or  degrading  greatness ;  and 
of  which  the  immediate  tendency  is  innovation  and  anarchy — 
an  impetuous  eagerness  to  subvert  and  confound,  with  very  little 
care  what  shall  be  established."  Though  the  son  of  a  Presby- 
terian, and  educated  for  the  office  of  a  dissenting  minister,  yet 
he  was  entirely  unsupported  by  the  Dissenters  at  Northampton. 
He  might  have  had  tne  support  and  countenance  of  Dr.  Dod- 
dridge, to  whom  he  was  known,  but  the  intimacy  which  had 
subsisted  for  some  time  between  him  and  Dr.  Stonhouse,  and 
the  obligation  which  the  town  and  country  owed  to  the  latter,  as 
the  founder  of  the  Infirmary,  induced  him  to  deny  his  support  to 
Dr.  Akenside,  who,  after  losing  the  patronage  of  Lord  Hunting- 
don, and  deafening  the  place  with  clamours  for  liberty,  removed 
to  Hampstead,  where  he  resided  a  short  time,  and  then  fixed 
himself  in  London,  the  proper  place  for  a  man  of  accomplish- 
ments like  his. 

Of  Mr.  Hervey,  Mr.  Whitefield  says : — 

'^Your  sentiments  concerning  Mr.  Hervey's  book  are  very  just 
It  has  gone  through  six  editions ;  the  author  of  it  is  my  old  friend,  a 
most  heavenly-minded  creature,  one  of  the  first  of  the  Methodists, 
who  is  contented  with  a  smaU  cure,  and  gives  all  that  he  has  to  the 


188  VU  UVl  AHU  TIMia  Of 

poor.  He  is  Yery  weak,  Mod  waits  dailj  for  his  dii^elaliaii,  A  ae^gb- 
bourins  cleifyman*  near  him  preaches  the  Gh>spel ;  and  a  nhvsiciaait 
formerly  a  noted  deist»  has  ktely  espoused  the  interest  of  Jesua  f^ 
Nazareth,  We  correspond  with^  though  we  capQot  see  ow  anoth^ ; 
wo  shall,  ere  long^  meet  in  heaven ; 

^  There  pain,  and  sin,  and  sorrow  eeaso. 
And  all  is  calm,  and  joy,  and  peace." 

Soon  after  Dr.  Stonhouse,  the  converted  infideU  had  become 
the  apostolic  minister,  we  find  Mr.  Whit^fleld  writipg  thus  to 
Mr.  Hervey : — 

For  Christ's  sake,  my  dear  Mr.  Hervey,  exhort  Dr.  Stoohouae, 
now  he  hath  taken  the  gown,  to  play  the  man,  and  let  the  world  see 
that,  not  worldly  moUves,  hut  6od*s  glory  and  a  love  for  pools,  havo 
sent  him  into  tho  ministry.  Though  when  I  conversed  with  hka,  be 
was  ezceedinjg;ly  weak,  yet,  as  I  trust  there  b  sincerity  at  the  hottom, 
I  hope  he  \iilf  turn  out  a  flamer  at  last" 

The  prevailing  weakness  of  this  ^ood  man  was  a  dread  of 
being  considered  a  Methodist  Worldly  hopes  and  worldly  fears 
were  a  perpetual  stumbling-block  in  bis  way.  He  had  not  yet 
learned  to  endure  the  cross,  despising  the  shame. 

''  I  earnestly  wish  (says  the  Countess)  to  see  you  more  actively 
engaged  in  tho  cause  of  Christ,  and  in  shedding  abroad  the  savour  of 
his  most  precious  name.  Go  forth  boldly — ^fear  not  the  leproaoh  ef 
man,  and  preach  the  inestimable  gift  of  God  to  impotent  sinners.  My 
poor  intercessions  are  ever  offered  in  your  behalf,  that  you  may  lie 
led  forth  to  testify  the  righteousness  of  our  Immanuel,  freely  imputed 
to  guilty,  hell-deserving  man,  for  his  complete  justification  and  accept^ 
anco  with  the  judge  of  all ;  and  I  shall  cease  not  to  beseech  the  Father 
of  Mercies  and  Fountain  of  Light  that  you  may  be  anointed  with  tbci 
Holy  Ghost  and  with  power."J 

Mr.  Whitefield's  interview  with  Dr.  Stonhouse,  on  his  way  to 

♦  Mr.  Hartley,  Rector  of  Winwick.  t  Dr.  Stonhouse. 

t  Her  Ladyship,  for  whom  he  preached  at  Northampton,  Weston  Favel,  and 
at  Ashby,  ana  at  whose  house  he  often  expounded,  was  plain  and  clear  in  her 
remonstrances.  He  acknowledges  one  of  her  LadyshipVi  letters  in  these  terms : 
**  Many,  many  thanks,  my  deiir  Madam,  for  the  judgipeot,  4iscrimination|  snd 
fidelity  you  have  displayed  in  the  letter  I  have  lately  had  the  honour  of  reeeivinf 
from  your  Ladyship.  I  humbly  hope  the  glory  of  my  divinie  Mast«r,  ana 
the  salvation  of^  souls,  have  been  the  ruling  motives  whicn  induced  n^e  tq  seek 
to  be  a  minister  of  the  everUsting  Gospel.  Pray  for  me,  my  dear  Madam,  that 
I  may  be  faithful  unto  death,  mkT  th«t  som9,  by  my  instrumf  Dtality,  may  be 
turned  from  darkness  to  light.  ^  Allow  me  to  express  my  heartfelt  gradtude  for 
the  very  faithful  manner  in  whieh  you  have  placed  raymious  duties  before  roe 
^.^uties  high  and  honourablt.  but  arduous  indeed.    May  He  that  hath  etlled 

me  to  tb« work,  givf  mt  graM  to  coatiouf  flithM (Q  tkt  tad  (   WlialMyaiid 


SELINAy  COUNTESS  OP  HVimHQDON.  18^ 

to  Ashby,  excited  in  his  warm  and  generous  heart  the  live- 
liest sensations  of  gratitude  for  the  si^al  conversion  which 
God  had  wrought.  On  his  arrival  at  Xady  Huntingdon's  he 
communicated  what  he  had  witnessed  to  her  Ladyship,  who 
rejoiced  with  him  that  the  Doctor  had  been  called  without 
the  camp  to  bear  that  reproach  which  all  who  will  live  godly 
in  Christ  Jesus,  but  especially  those  who  preach  him  to  a' 
proud,  self-righteous,  gainsaying  world,  must  ever  expect  to 
meet  for  their  fidelity.  Knowing  some  of  the  peculiarities 
of  his  character,  Mr.  Whitefield  lost  not  a  moment  in  oomi 
municating  that  advice  which  be  conceived  most  needed  for 
the  confirming  of  the  new  convert.*  A  few  days  after  his 
arrival  at  Lady  Huntingdon's  he  addressed  the  following  letter 
to  Dr.  Stonhouse  : — 

"Ashby,  May  11,1760. 
**  My  dear  Doctor, — I  have  thought  of  and  prayed  for  you  much, 
since  wo  parted  at  Northampton.  Now,  I  believe,  is  the  time  in  which 
the  axe  is  to  be  laid  at  the  very  root  of  the  tree,  How  wonderfully  doth 
the  Lord  Jesus  watch  over  you  J  How  sweetly  does  he  lead  you  out  of 
temptation  !  0  !  follow  his  leadinss,  my  dear  friend,  and  let  every,  even 
the  most  beloved  Isaac,  be  immediately  sacrificed  for  God.  Kmdnes^ 
is  cmelty  here.  Hod  Abraham  consulted  either  Sarah  or  his  affectioqi 
he  never  would  have  taken  the  knife  to  slay  his  son.  God's  law  is  our 
rhlc,  and  God  will  have  all  Uie  heart  or  none.  Agass  will  plead,  but 
they  must  be  hewn  in  pieees.  May  the  Lord  strengthen^  stablish,  and 
settle  you !  Good  Laay  Huntingaon  was  much  rejoiced  to  hear  that 
you  had  been  without  the  camp.    May  you  quit  yourself  like  a  man, 

excellent  examples  have  I  in  the  exalted  piety  and  ministerial  fidelity  of  Dod- 
dridge, Hervev,  Hartley,  and  the  undaunted  zeal  of  that  great  apostle,  Mr, 
Whitefield.  Afay  I  be  a  follov^er  of  them  as  they  are  followers  of  Christ  I  and 
whatever  little  diffeiences  may  exist  between  us,  may  w^  all  Anally  meet  before 
the  throne  of  Ood  and  the  Lamb  T 

*  Dr.  Stonhouse  is  said  to  have  been  one  of  the  most  correct  and  elegant 
preachers  in  the  kingdom.  When  he  entered  into  holy  orders  hs  took  occasioia 
to  profit  by  his  acquainiance  with  Garrick,  to  procure  from  him  some  valuable 
instructions  in  elocution.  Being  once  engaged  to  read  prayers  and  to  preach 
at  a  ihurchin  ths  dty,  he  prevailed  upon  Oanick  to  go  with  him.  After  the 
service,  the  British  Koscius  asked  the  Doctor  what  pardcular  business  he  had 
to  do  when  the  duty  was  over  ?  **  None,*'  said  the  other.  *'  I  thought  yoii  hed»^ 
said  Garrick,  *'  on  seeing  you  enter  the  reading-desk  in  sueh  a  hurry.**  *'  No- 
thing,** added  he,  "  can  oe  more  indeeent  than  to  see  a  dergymjm  §it  about 
sacred  business  as  if  he  were  a  tradesman*  and  go  into  the  chureh  as  if  he 
wanted  to  get  out  of  it  as  soon  as  jiossible.**  He  nest  asked  the  |)octor  "  what 
books  he  had  in  the  desk  before  him?**  **  Onfy  the  Bible  and  Prayer-book." 
**  Onfy  the  Bible  and  Prayer-book,**  replied  the  player;  "  why  you  tossed  them 
backwards  end  lorwaida,  ml  turned  the  leaves  as  eaielesely,  as  if  they  weee 
those  of  a  day-book  and  lednr.**  The  Doctor  was  wise  enoufh  to  see  tW 
force  of  these  obseprations,  and  ever  after  avoided  the  fiHil^  th^  w#|f  de^pecT 
tor^rove. 


140  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

and  in  every  respect  behave  like  a  good  soldier  of  Jesus  Christ !  Her 
Ladyship  is  very  weak,  but  I  hope  will  yet  be  spared  to  do  much  good 
on  earth,  0,  the  happiness  of  giving  up  all  for  Christ,  who  hath  given 
himself  for  us.     The  Lord  be  with  you.     I  am  yours  to  command 

"  G.  W." 

Lady  Huntingdon  was  much  interested  at  this  time  about  an 
institution  which  seemed  to  promise  much  benefit  to  the  cause 
of  God,  and  the  extension  of  his  kingdom  on  the  continent  of 
America.  From  time  to  time  her  Ladyship  had  received  letters 
from  his  Excellency  Governor  Belcher,  relative  to  the  Presby- 
terian College  in  the  New  Jerseys.  The  importance  and  ex- 
tensive usefulness  of  this  seminary  to  the  spread  of  the  Gospel 
in  the  New  World  had  been  often  mentioned  by  Mr.  Whitefield, 
who  had  been  on  the  spot,  and  had  conversed  with  many  con- 
nected with  it.  Principally  by  the  exertions  of  Governor  Belcher 
the  College  was  now  on  a  difTerent  footing  from  what  it  had 
hitherto  been :  and  in  the  early  part  of  tnis  year  two  gentle- 
men, Mr.' Allen  and  Colonel  Williams,  friends  of  the  Governor's, 
arrived  in  England,  to  negotiate  all  matters  concerning  the 
institution,  and  collect  funds  which  would  enable  the  president 
and  trustees  to  enlarge  the  sphere  of  its  operations.     These 

gentlemen  brought  letters  to  Lady  Huntinsfdon,  from  Governor 
elcher  and  President  Burr,  which  Mr.  Whitefield  presented 
to  her  on  his  arrival  at  Ashby.  A  statement  of  the  intended 
plan  and  enlargement  of  the  College  was  drawn  up,  and  several 
of  the  dissenting  ministers  in  London  promised  their  assistance. 
By  the  advice  of  Lady  Huntingdon  this  statement  was  printed, 
together  with  a  recommendation  of  the  plan,  subscribed  by  her 
Ladyship,  Dr.  Doddridge,  Mr.  Whitefield,  and  others.  Being 
^  desirous  of  serving  the  mterests  of  this  rising  institution,  which 
had  many  worthy  Presidents,  some  of  whose  names  are  well 
known  in  the  learned  world,  such  as  President  Burr,  Dr.  Jona- 
than Edwards,  Dr.  Samuel  Davies,  Dr.  Samuel  Finley,  Dr. 
Witherspoon,  &c.,  her  Ladyship  was  very  active  in  collecting 
considerable  sums  amongst  her  triends  and  acquaintances,  and 
corresponded  with  many  persons  of  eminence  in  England  and 
Scotland,  to  whom  she  communicated  the  mission  of  Mr.  Allen 
and  Colonel  Williams.  Mr.  Whitefield,  likewise,  lost  no  oppor- 
tunity of  recommending  the  institution  to  the  attention  of  those 
who,  he  thought,  could  effectually  further  the  objects  it  had  in 
view.  He  preached  several  sermons  in  its  behalf ;  and  in  the 
course  of  a  few  months  considerable  sums  were  collected,  which 
were  immediately  transmitted  to  America. 

Mr.  Whitefield,  in  a  letter  to  the  Rev.  Mr.  McCuUocb,  of 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUKTINODOV.  141 

Cambuslang,  dated  about  a  week  after  his  arrival  at  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon's, says,  "  I  have  desired  to  write  you  a  long  letter  for 
a  considerable  time,  but  was  so  hurried  wnen  at  London  that 
I  could  not  be  so  explicit  as  the  affair  I  wanted  to  write  about 
necessarily  required.  It  is  concerning  the  Presbyterian  (Col- 
lege in  the  New  Jerseys ;  the  importance  and  extensive  useful- 
ness of  which  I  suppose  you  have  long  since  been  apprized  of. 
Mr.  Allen,  a  friend  of  Governor  Belcher^s,  is  come  over  with  a 
commission  to  negotiate  this  matter:  he  hath  brought  with 
him  a  copy  of  a  letter,  which  Mr.  Pemberton  sent  to  you  some 
months  past.  This  letter  hath  been  shown  to  Dr.  Doddridge 
and  several  of  the  London  ministers,  who  all  approve  of  the 
thing,  and  promise  their  assistance.  Last  week  I  preached 
<it  Northampton,  and  conversed  with  Dr.  Doddridge  concerning 
it.  The  scheme  that  was  then  judged  most  practicable  was 
this  : — *  That  Mr.  Pemberton's  letter  should  be  printed,  and 
a  recommendation  of  the  affair,  subscribed  by  Dr.  Doddridge 
and  others,  be  annexed ; — that  a.  subscription  and  collections 
should  be  then  set  on  jfbot  in  England,  and  afterwards  that 
Mr.  Allen  should  go  to  Scotland.*  I  think  it  is  an  affair  that  re- 
quires despatch.  Governor  Belcher*  is  old,  but  a  most  hearty 
man  for  promoting  God's  gloiy  and  the  good  of  mankind.  He 
looks  upon  the  (Jollege  as  his  own  daughter,  and  will  do  all 
he   can  to   endow  her  with  proper  privileges.     The  present 

*  Jonathan  Belcher,  for  many  years  Governor  of  Massachusetts  and  New 
Jersey.  He  succeeded  Governor  Burnet,  eldest  son  of  the  celebrated  Bishop 
Burnet.  He  was  named  William,  after  the  Prince  of  Orange,  who  stood  his 
godfather.  At  one  period  he  possessed  a  considerable  fortune,  but  it  had  been 
wrecked  in  the  South  Sea  scheme,  which  reduced  so  many  opulent  families  to 
indigence.  After  the  loss  of  his  fortune  he  emigrated  to  America,  and  in 
process  of  time  became  Governor  of  New  York  and  New  Jersey.  He  wasafter- 
waids  Governor  of  Massachusetts  and  New  Hampshire,  which  post  he  held  to 
the  time  of  his  death.  When  Mr.  Whitefield  was  at  Boston,  in  1740,  Governor 
Belcher  treated  him  with  the  utmost  respect  and  attention.  He  even  followed 
him  as  far  as  Worcester,  and  requested  him  to  continue  his  faithful  instructions 
and  pungent  addresses  ta  the  conscience,  desiring  him  to  gpart  naiher  mmisien 
nor  rulers.  This  good  man  expressed  the  humblest  sense  of  his  own  character, 
and  the  most  exalted  views  ot  the  rich,  free,  and  glorious  grace  offered  in  the 
gospel  to  sinners.  His  faith  worked  by  love,  and  produced  the  genuine  fruits 
of  obedience.  It  exhibited  itself  in  a  life  of  piety  and  devotion,  of  meekness 
and  humility,  of  justice,  truth,  and  benevolence.  He  died  August  31,  1747, 
aged  76  years.  One  of  his  sons  studied  law  at  the  Temple  in  London,  and 
gained  some  distinction  at  the  bar  in  England.  He  was  afterwards  Chief 
Justice  of  Nova  Scotia,  and  died  at  Halifax,  March  1776.  Governor  Belcher 
was  succeeded  by  William  Shirley,  Esq.,  a  relative  of  Lady  Huntingdon's,  who 
was  for  a  time  commander-in-chief  of  the  British  Forces  in  America,  in  which 
office  he  was  succeeded  by  Major  General  Abercrombie.  Governor  Shirley 
was  also  Governor  of  one  of  the  Bahama  Isbinds  for  a  number  of  years.  He 
died  in  1771. 


l4St  ni  txn  4in>  TDm  aw 

PreMdent,  Mt  Burr^*  and  most  of  the  trustees,  I  am  well  ac- 
quainted with.  Thev  are  friends  to  vital  piety,  and  I  trust  this 
work  of  the  Lord  will  prosper  in  their  hands.  The  spreading 
of  the  Gospel  in  Maryland  and  Vimnia  in  a  great  measure 
depends  upon  it,  and  therefore  I  wish  them  much  success  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord/' 

Unhappily  for  the  scheme  of  the  New  Jersey  College,  Mr. 
Allen,  wno  came  over  on  purpose  to  negotiate  it,  was  smitten 
by  the  fetal  infection  which,  during  the  summer  of  this  yetir, 
was  so  prevalent  at  the  Old  Bailev,f  and  died  about  two  months 
after  his  arrival  in  England.  Colonel  Williams  returned  to 
America,  and  Dr.  Doddridge  wrote  largely  to  Mr.  Pemberton, 
utging  him  to  visit  England  the  ensuing  summer,  and  to  bring 
over  with  him  some  of  the  converted  Indians — a  scheme  which 
bad  been  suggested  by  Lady  Huntingdon,  from  an  idea  that  it 

*  Mr.  Aaron  Burr  wm  educated  at  Tale  College,  in  Connecticnt,  New 
England;  and  for  his  great abiiitiea^  and  well^pproved  piety,  was  uaanimouftly 
chaeen  in  1747  to  succeed  tlie  Rev.  Mr.  Dickenson,  the  first  President  of  New 
lereey  College,  a  man  of  learning,  of  distinguished  Uilents,  and  much  celebrated 
W«pl«ac1ier.  In  the  year  1714  Governor  Burr  accompanied  Mr.  ^Inte6cld 
to  Boston,  having  a  high  esteem  for  the  character  of  tnat  eloquent  itinerant 
preacher,  and  ff ready  rejoiced  in  the  success  of  his  labours.  After  a  life  of 
usefulness  and  nonour,  devoted  to  his  Master  in  heaven,  he  was  called  into  the 
•temal  world,  Beptembef  24^  1757,  in  the  midst  of  his  days,  being  in  the  iotty- 
llurd  year  of  his  age.  At  the  M)proach  of  death,  that  Goapel  which  he  had 
preached  to  others,  and  which  discloses  a  crucified  Redeemer,  gave  him  support 
and  consolation,  and  enabled  him  to  triumph  over  the  last  enemy.  He  married 
m  daughter  of  Dr.  Jonathan  Edwards,  his  successor  in  the  Presidenry  of  the 
College.  She  died  the  year  after  die  death  of  her  husband,  leaving  a  son  and 
a  daughter. 

f  On  the  1 1th  of  May,  1750,  the  Sessions  began  at  the  CMd  Bailey,  and  eon- 
tinned  for  some  days,  in  which  time  a  great  number  of  malefactors  were  tried  ; 
Knd  there  was  present  in  the  court  a  great  multitude  of  persons  to  hear  the 
trial  of  Captain  Clarke  for  killing  Captain  lnne^  both  officers  in  the  Nary, 
h  was  generally  supposed  that  the  air  was  at  first  tainted  from  the  bar,  by  some 
of  the  prisoners  then  ill  of  the  gaol  distemper  .  and  the  poisonous  qnaHty  of 
the  atmosphere  was  considerably  increase^  Dy  the  heat  and  closeness  of  the 
Court,  occasioned  by  the  great  number  of  persons  penned  up  for  the  most  past 
of  the  day,  without  breatliing  the  free  air,  or  receiving  any  refresbment. 
tlie  Bench  connsted  of  six  persons,  Sir  Samnel  Pennant,  then  Lord  Mayor ; 
Lord  Chief  Justice  Lee ;  Sir  Thomas  Abney,  Justice  of  the  Common  Pleas ; 
Huron  Clarke;  and  Sir  Daniel  Lambert,  Aidenmm  and  M.P.  for  London, 
thereof  four  cUed,  together  with  two  or  three  of  the  Counsel,  one  of  the  Under 
SheriflV,  several  of  the  Middlesex  jury,  and  others  present,  to  the  amount  of 
above  forty  in  die  whole.  This  event  is  nodced  by  Lady  Hnndngdun,  in  one 
uf  her  letters,  in  which  she  laments  the  death  of  an  indmate  frrer^,  £tMihopc 
Otway,  Esq.,  barrister «at»law,  whose  sudden  decease  was  improved  by  Mr. 
^itefieM  at  AAby,  before  a  nrnnerons  congregadon.  A  narradve  «ff  die 
awful  eircumttances  connected  with  the  Blac^  Sessions  at  the  Old  Bailey, 
Wis  drawn  tap  Ijy  Dr.  Pringle,  afterwards  Sir  John  Pringle,  eon-in-kw  of  fit. 
OKver,  of  Bath,  the  particular  friend  of  Lady  Huntingdon.  (See  IYingle*s 
**  Obsenradons  on  the  Diseases  of  the  Army.") 


SELfVA)  COtinnS  OV  aVHTtNODON.  i4fi 

>i^ouU  b%  H  cotivintitig  {miof  to  die  public  of  the  good  that  had 
already  ty&en  effected,  and  was  likely  to  result  more  largely  from 
the  e&tended  operations  of  the  College.  Thus  matters  re- 
mained till  the  visit  of  Messrs.  Tennant  and  Davies  to  Eogland 
fai  17da 

It  was  about  the  same  period  that  several  meetings  were  hdd 
in  LfOndoih  for  the  purpose  of  establishing  an  academy  for  the 
education  of  young  men  for  the  ministry  amongst  Uie  Dis- 
senters. In  many  ooi^gregations  the  life  and  power  of  religion 
^m^  aimost  extinct^  andothers  wero  wholly  destitute  of  pastors ; 
SN>  much  so^  that  when  Mr.  Whitefield  was  applied  to  for  a 
minister  to  take  charge  of  a  church  in  America,  he  returned  for 
tinswer :— 

• 

"  I  wish  1  conld  s^nd  yott  good  news  about  your  minister.  But, 
Itlfts !  I  despair  of  proeurmg  one.  I  waited  upon  Dr.  Q^ord  imme^ 
diately  al^r  my  arrival ;  he  gave  no  hopes.  The  person  tlmt  was 
fixed  upon  declined  it  Several  of  the  kige  congregations  in  London, 
besides  inany  more  in  the  country,  are  without  pastors:  tkcy  are 
obl^;ed  to  ttake  use  of  our  preachers.  0,  d)at  the  Lord  of  the  harveBl 
may  thrust  out  more  laboorerB  into  his  harvest  !'* 

Dr.  Doddridge  felt  extremely  anxious  for  the  establishment  of 
an  institution  that  would  (iimisn  a  succession  of  tnie  Chris^Mi 
evangelical  ministers  to  the  churches.     He  circulated  the  printed 

Srospectus  which  had  been  sent  him  by  the  Committee  in  Lon- 
on,  and  was  very  active  in  procuring  lunds,  and  recommending 
it  to  the  Dissenting  churdftes  in  his  neighbourhood.  Prom 
Lady  Huntingdon,  to  whom  he  mentioned  the  scheme  when  ait 
Ashoy,  he  received  a  most  liberal  contribution,  accompanied  by 
her  prayers  and  good  wishes  for  its  success.  When  her  Lady^ 
ship's  donation  was  remitted  to  the  Committee  in  London,  the 
Rev.  John  Barker,  an  eminent  Dissenting  minister  in  the  metro- 
nolis,  acknowledged  its  receipt,  and  in  nis  reply  to  Dr.  Dod- 
dridge»  says,  ^<  Lady  Huntingdon's  generosity  is  noble  and 
caAolic"* 

Mr.  Barker  was  morning  preadier  at  Salter's  Hall,  teng  es^ 

^  *  Mr.  Barker  had  die  i-epotatiow  of  behfig  one  of  tlie  most  |>o|)nlar  pretcfaers 
ih  the  Tnetropolis  amongst  the  Dissenters.  He  was  a  great  favourite  with 
btAj  Hantkigdoii)  whom  be  frequently  visited  when  in  London,  and  on  flome 
occaworts  espoanded  at  her  house.  Few  ministers  lamented  more  the  decay  <^ 
<?»ang<i1h.'al  tmtlh  amongst  the  Dissenters  in  London,  and  the  open  departure  of 
maiQr  of  his  brethfcn  from  some  of  those  doctrines  which  Ue  at  the  Kmndation 
df  tfcrii^tei  hiope.  Hiroagh  life  he  discovered  an  uniform  and  cealous  atlsdb- 
merit  to  the  iftM  ^tfcftrines  of  the  Refonnation ,  and  heartUy  longed  for  Hm 
ilhion  cfaH  real  CM«Cimis«  and  .Ae  hl^alring  down  of  the  wall  of  scpahidon 
hiclw<au  l9m  Ghanh  of  Bnghmd  mid  llie  Disaenters.  Though  fismW  otiadMd 
to  the  priociplef  of  Ptotestant  Dissent,  yet  he  had  the  interest  ofyim^ilimmi 


144  THE  UR  AXD  TUIES  OT 

teemed  one  cl  the  mosi  celebcated  pbccs  of  v€rsliq>  amonp  the 
Dissenters.  For  many  years  the  ooogregation  was  large  and 
respectable,  and  it  was  cooaderabtr  inciCKed  during  Mr.  Bar- 
ker's  ministratkHi,  by  the  attendance  of  great  nunmers  of  the 
awakened  people  in  the  metropolis^  who  were  eager  to  profit  by 
his  preactunff.  Lady  Himtinsdonf  Lady  Cbesterfiddy  Lord 
DartoKMith,  and  some  others  of  the  nobility^  occasionaQy  formed 
part  of  his  auditory. 

In  the  correspondence  of  Lady  Huntingdon,  Dr.  Doddrid^ 
and  Mr.  Barker,  frequent  allusion  is  made  to  the  decline  of  ntal 
godliness  in  many  of  the  Dissenting  churches.  ^^  In  my  opinion 
(savs  the  Countess),  coldness  and  indiflTerencc  haTe  much  to  do 
witb  the  desertion  so  often  and  so  justly  complained  oL  Were 
the  Gospel  of  our  adorable  Saviour  preached  m  puritv  and  with 
zeal,  the  places  would  be  filled  with  hearers,  and  (jrod  would 
bless  his  own  word  to  the  conversion  of  souls.  Witness  the 
effects  produced  by  those  whom  he  hath  sent  forth  of  late  to 
proclaim  his  salvation.  What  numbers  have  been  converted  to 
God,  and  what  multitudes  attend  to  bear  the  word  wherever  it 
Is  proclaimed  in  the  light  and  the  love  of  it.** 

In  his  **  Free  Thoughts  on  the  most  probable  means  of  serving 
the  Dissenting  Interest,"  and  in  his  letters  to  his  numerous 
correspondents.  Dr.  Doddridg^e  expresses  his  firm  persuasion 
that  the  preaching  of  evangelical  doctrines  in  a  plain,  spiritual, 
experimental  and  affectionate  way,  is  the  only  thing  which  can 
preserve  a  congregation  from  decay,  and  revive  it  when  it  is 
decayed.  So  much  did  the  existence  of  Dissenters,  in  his  view, 
dqK;nd  on  this  one  thing,  that  he  expresses  his  sentiments  in 
the  following  terms : — 

moTK  hi  hpftft ;  ftnd  he  considered  a  lively  evangelical  mode  of  preaGhing,  such 
n»  then  crhiefl^  prrrirailed  amongflt  those  denominated  Methodists,  as  best  adapted 
to  extend  itA  influence.  In  (me  of  bis  letters  to  Lady  Huntingdon  he  feeliiip:l3r 
laments  the  decay  of  evangelical  truth  in  the  pulpits  of  many  of  the  Dissenting 
churches  in  I^ndon.  *'  Alas !  ^says  he)  the  distinguished  doctrines  of  the 
Gospel — Christ  rnicified,  the  only  ground  of  hope  for  fallen  man — salvation 
through  his  atoning  blood — the  sanctification  by  his  eternal  Spirit,  are  old- 
fashioned  things,  now  seldom  heard  in  our  churches.  A  cold  comfordess  kind 
of  nreaching  prevails  almost  every  where ;  and  reason,  the  great  law  of  reason, 
aiirl  the  eternal  law  of  reason,  is  idolized  and  deified.  But  blessed  be  God  for 
the  revival  that  has  taken  place  in  another  branch  of  the  Church  of  Christ ; 
the  labours  of  the  Methodists  will,  I  hope,  infuse  new  life  into  some  of  our 
dying  churches,  and  be  the  means,  under  God,  of  spreading  such  a  stream  of 
light  in  Kngland,  that  all  the  vain  efforts  of  false  doctrines  and  false  philosophy 
can  never  darken.  We  are  much  indebted  to  the  zeal  and  catholic  charity 
which  your  Ladyship,  Mr.  Whitefield,  and  some  others,  have  evinced.  I  am 
now  in  the  decline  of  life,  having  attained  more  than  seventy  years.  Assist 
ie  with  your  prayers,  my  dear  Madam,  that  my  few  remaining  years  may  be 

ivoted  to  the  intereeta  of  my  Divine  Master,  and  the  spread  of  his  kingdom 

lOPgtt  men«'^ 


6ELINA9  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  145 

<'  I  cannot  but  believe,  if  the  Established  Clei^gy  and  the  Dissenting 
ministers  in  general  were  mutually  to  exchange  their  strain  of  preaching 
and  their  manner  of  living  but  for  one  year,  it  would  be  the  ruin  of  our 
cause,  even  though  there  should  be  no  alteration  in  the  constitution 
and  discipline  of  the  Church  of  England.  However  you  might  fare  at 
London,  or  in  some  very  singular  cases  elsewhere^  I  can  hardly  imagine 
that  there  would  be  Dissenters  enough  left  in  some  considerable  coun- 
ties to  fill  one  of  our  largest  meeting  places. 

On  the  character  of  its  ministers  the  prosperity  of  the 
Church  will  at  all  times  greatly  depend.  That  they  should 
first  be  men  of  talents  and  piety  is  devoutly  to  be  desired.  £du» 
cation  succeeds  to  prepare  tnem  for  this  peculiar  service.  Could 
a  greater  blessing  be  wished  for  the  human  race,  than  that  it 
might  be  rei^rded  as  an  univei'sal  maxim,  <^  that  no  man  should 
receive  an  education  for  the  pastoral  office  who  had  not  first 
been  made  a  partaker  of  a  divine  nature,  and  know  the  grace  of 
God  in  truth  ?"  Could  a  man  write  Latin  with  the  elegance  of 
a  Cicero,  or  Greek  with  the  sublimity  of  a  Plato,  could  he  com- 
pose poetry  like  Virgil,  and  vie  as  a  mathematician  with  Euclid 
or  Sir  Isaac  Newton,  how  little  would  they  all  conduce  to  make 
him  a  good  minister  of  Jesus  Christ;  for  they  all  lie  at  the 
remotest  distance  from  the  knowledge  of  a  Saviour,  and  the 
doctrine  which  is  according  to  godliness.  The  most  illiterate 
man  that  ever  entered  a  pulpit,  if  he  understands  the  method  of 
salvation,  is  versed  in  the  Scriptures,  and  can  tell  one  unvar- 
nished tale  of  Him  who  died  upon  the  cross  to  save  the  chief  of 
sinners,  though  he  cannot  utter  a  single  sentence  without  a 
breach  of  the  rules  of  grammar,  is  infinitely  better  qualified  for 
the  pastoral  office,  and  will  do  unspeakably  more  service  in  pro- 
moting the  salvation  of  immortal  souls. 

The  awful  departure  from  the  "  faith  once  delivered  to  the 
saints "  in  many  of  the  old  Dissenting  congregations,  and  the 
great  want  of  evangelical  ministers  and  students  to  supply  the 
place  of  those  who  were  daily  dropping  into  another  world,  be- 
came the  objects  of  Lady  Huntingdon's  particular  solicitude. 
She  had  contributed  nobly  to  the  evangelical  seminary  to  be 
established  by  the  Dissenting  Ministers  in  London  and  now 
turned  her  attention  to  the  academy  as  Northampton,  under  the 
management  of  Dr.  Doddridge,  whom  she  and  some  of  her 
friends  enabled  to  increase  his  establishment  by  the  addition 
of  two  tutors,  and  six  boys  to  be  instructed  in  grammatical 
learning : — 

^  The  want  of  ministers  and  students  is  so  seen  and  felt  (says  tho 
Doctor^  and  tho  necessity  of  tho  scheme  for  educating  lads  not  yet 
vo^,  I.— L 


146  THX  LIF£  AVB  TIKIS  OF 

ripe  for  academical  studies  is  grown  so  apparent,  that  between  three 
and  four  score  poands  per  annum  hare  been,  bj  well-disposed  persona, 
without  any  pressing  solicitations  from  me,  subscribed  for  that  purpose. 
And  I  hare  now  in  that  riew  the  six  following :  Mr.  Bennett,  a  serious 
lad  lately  arrired,  and  who  is  subsisted  by  an  exhibition  of  ten  guineas 
jeariy  from  Lady  Huntingdon;  Messrs.  Howe,  Brooks,  Bobotham, 
Cole,  and  Smith,  three  of  whom  come  from  a  distance  :  and  I  hope 
they  will  many  of  them  prove  a  seed  to  serre  the  Lord,  who  shall 
be  accounted  to  him  for  a  veneration.  The  number  of  pupils  and 
lads  altogether  is  now  thirty-six.*** 

Mr.  Wbitefield  appears  to  have  continued  at  Ashby  about  a 
fortnight,  actively  engaged  in  preaching  whenever  he  could  ob- 
tain a  pulpit : — 

^  Your  kind  letter  (says  he  to  Dr.  Doddridge)  found  me  happv  at 
our  good  Lady  Huntingdon's,  whose  path  shines  bri^ter  and  brighter 
unto  the  perfect  day.  Gladly  shall  I  call  upon  you  again  at  Northamp- 
ton, if  the  Lord  spares  my  life ;  and  in  the  mean  while  shall  not 
foil  to  pray  that  the  work  of  our  common  Lord  may  more  and  more 
prosper  in  your  hands*  I  thank  vou  a  thousand  times  for  vour  kind- 
ness to  the  chief  of  sinners,  and  assure  you,  reverend  Sir,  that  the 
affection  is  reciprocal.  Gk>od  Lady  Huntingdon  greatly  esteems  you. 
I  go  with  regret  from  her  Ladyship,  who  intends  writing  to  vou  this 
evening :  do  come  and  see  her  soon.  I  shall  not  be  unmindful  of  your 
sick  studentt  May  the  Lord  Jesus  sanctify  all  pain,  and  through  his 
sufferings  make  him  perfect.'* 

Leading;  Ashby,  Mr.  Wbitefield  proceeded  to  Nottingham^ 
and  on  his  way  thither  preached  at  Milbum  and  Radclinl  At 
the  latter  place,  where  he  was  attended  by  great  crowds,  be 

*  There  were  mingled  with  the  theological  students  educated  by  Dr.  Dod- 
dridge, besides  the  Earl  of  Druroroond,  twelve  gentlemen  of  fortune,  not  in- 
tMoSed  for  the  liberal  professions ;  and  of  those  who  were,  it  appears  that  five 
entered  the  law.  Three  others  were  elected  members  of  Ptoliament.  Of  the 
theological  pupils,  six  conformed  to  the  Established  Church,  while  the  great 
body  remained  Dissenters.  Of  these  many  were  distinguished  for  their  piety 
•nd  learning,  and  others  for  their  heterodoxy.  The  names  of  Darracott,  Faw- 
cett,  and  Taylor,  of  Ashworth,  and  Kippis,  will  naturally  present  themselves  to 
the  mind  of  the  reader. 

t  The  Rev.  Richard  Denny,  the  last  surviring  pupil  of  the  excellent  Dod- 
dridge. He  was  forty  years  pastor  of  the  Independent  Church  and  congregation 
at  Long  Buckby,  in  Northamptonshire,  and  was  distinguished  for  his  unfeigned 
regard  to  all  who  love  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  sincerity— for  devotion,  warm 
and  fervent  to  the  last— and  for  the  exemplary  conduct  and  useful  labour  of  a 
Ufa  protracted  to  the  a^  of  nearlv  ninety.  He  was  introduced  by  Lady 
Huntmgdon  and  Mr.  Wbitefield  to  the  notice  of  Dr.  Doddridge,  who  most 
kindly  and  cordially  received  him  under  his  care  and  tuition  in  1747.  During 
bis  severe  indisposition,  whilst  a  student  at  Nottingham,  Lady  Huntingdon 
paid  him  every  mark  of  attention,  and  as  soon  as  he  was  well  enough  to  move 
abroad  invited  bim  to  Ashby  for  Um  MOovery  of  bia  health.  Ha  died  at  Long 
Bockby,  April  H  18ia 


SELrKA»  COUNTXSfl  09  HUKTINODON.  14 

preached  on  these  words — "  But  one  thing  is  needful."  After 
sermon  he  conversed  with  Mrs.  Hester  Gibbon,  Mrs.  Hut- 
cheson,  and  a  sister  of  the  celebrated  mystic,  Mr.  Law.  The 
Divine  power  accompanied  the  word,  "  and  many  (says  Mr. 
Whitefield)  were  deeply  impressed.  Mr.  Law's  sister  seems 
to  be  under  awakenings. 

About  ten  years  previous  to  this  period,  Mrs.  Hester  Gibbon, 
aunt  to  the  eloquent  but  infidel  historian  of  the  *^  Decline  and 
Fall,"  and  Mrs.  Hutcheson,  widow  of  Archibald  Hutcheson, 
Esq.,  of  the  middle  Temple,  having  formed  the  plan  of  retiring 
from  the  world  to  the  exercise  of  charitable  and  religious  duties, 
took  the  well-known  author  of  "  The  serious  Call  to  a  Devout 
Life"  as  their  chaplain,  instructor,  and  almoner,  and  came  to 
reside  at  King's  Cliffe,  in  Northamptonshire,  having  previously 
lived  for  a  short  time  at  Thrapston,  in  the  same  county.     With 
these  singular  and  benevolent  characters  Lady  Huntingdon  soon 
became  acquainted,  and  occasionally  corresponded  with   Mrs* 
Gibbon  ana  Mr.  Law.     They  were  frequently  visited  by  Mr. 
Hartley,  who  was  an  extravagant  admirer  of  the  mystic  writers, 
and  in  the  latter  years  of  his  life  an  enthusiastic  follower  of  the 
Baron  Swedenborg.     The  severe  indisposition  under  which  Lady 
Huntingdon  so  long  and  resignedly  laboured,  appears  to  have 
excited  considerable  alarm  in  the  minds  of  Mrs.  Gibbon  and 
her  amiable  associates,  and  Mr.  Hartley  was  deputed  bearer  of 
the  following  letter  to  her  Ladyship  : — 

*'  King's  Cliffe,  May  29,  1 750. 

'^  My  dear  Madam, — Your  excellent  physician,  and  our  wortliy  and 
respected  friend,  Dr.  Stonhonse,  about  a  month  since,  was  so  kind  os  to 
hiform  OS  of  your  Ladyship's  illness,  and  the  alarming  state  of  debility 
to  which  you  were  reduced.  At  our  particular  wish  Mr.  Law  re- 
quested good  Mr.  Hartley  to  visit  Ashhy,  and  report  to  us  the  result 
of  his  observations ;  bat  the  duties  of  bis  parish  prevented  his  leaving 
home  at  that  time,  and  we  were  not  able  to  learn  any  tidings  of  your 
Ladyship  till  the  other  day,  when  we  were  delighted  with  the  sight  of 
your  valuable  chaplain,  Mr.  Whitefield.  0,my  dear  Madam>  how  have 
we  prayed  and  wrestled  with  the  great  Author  of  Life  and  Light  for 
the  preservation  of  your  invaluable  existence  1  Precious  above  esti- 
mation is  the  prolongation  of  such  a  life  as  yours.  We  mourned,  we 
wept,  we  prayed,  and  each  returning  day  your  case  was  presented  on 
our  family  altar.  Thanks,  eternal  tbanks  to  Him,  with  whom  are  the 
issues  of  life  and  death,  for  your  restoration  and  subsequent  amend- 
ment. My  dear  Mrs.  Hutcheson  has  not  been  quite  well  for  some 
time,  and  good  Mr.  Law's  advanced  stage  of  Hfe  precludes  our  leaving 
our  beloved  retreat,  or  we  should  do  ourselves  the  gratification  of  ]^r- 
sonally  eoDgrataktiiig  you  on  your  recovery,  ^sent  our  united 
l2 


148  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  Ol^ 

thanks  and  good  wishes  to  Lady  Anne  Hastings  for  her  kind  remem- 
brance of  us.  We  hope,  now  that  your  Ladyship  is  so  much  better, 
she  will  pay  us  her  long-promised  visit.  Best  compliments  to  Lady 
Frances^  and  all  your  amiable  circle,  in  which  good  Mr.  Law  most 
cordially  unites. 

**  I  remain^  my  dear  Madam,  very  sincerely^  and  with  Christian 
affection,  your  faithful  friend, 

*«  Hbstbb  Gibbon."* 

At  Nottingham  Mr.  Whitefield  was  attended  by  great  mul- 
titudes, who  thronged  every  avenue  to  the  place  appointed  for 
his  preaching.  *^  Several  came  to  me  (says  he)  inquiring  what 
they  should  do  to  be  saved?  I  preached  four  times.  One 
evening  Lord  Essex  and  several  gentlemen  were  present,  and 
behaved  with  great  decency."  After  leaving^  Nottingham,  Mr. 
Whitefield  proceeded  to  Mansfield,  Rotherham,  and  Sheffield, 
in  which  places  he  preached  several  times  with  great  and  re- 
markable success. 

**  After  leaving  Mansfield  (writes  Mr.  Whitefield,)  I  went  to  Ro- 
therham^  where  Satan  rallied  his  forces  again.  However,  I  preached 
twice^  on  the  Friday  evening  and  Saturday  morning.  The  crier  was 
employed  to  give  notice  of  a  bear-baiting :  your  Ladyslnp  may  guess 
who  was  the  hear.  About  seven  in  the  morning  the  drum  was  heard, 
and  several  watermen  attended  it  with  great  staves.  The  constable 
was  struck,  and  two  of  the  mobbers  were  apprehended^  but  rescued 
afterwards.     But  all  this  does  not  come  up  to  the  kind  usage  of  the 

?eoplc  of  Ashby.     I  preached  on  these  words — '  Fear  not,  little  flock.' 
'hey  were  both  fed  and  feasted ;  and  after  a  short  stay  I  left  Ro- 
therham, when  I  knew  it  was  to  become  more  pacific." 

With  this  species  of  brutal  opposition,  the  propagation  of 
malicious  falsehoods  was  encouraged,  with  a  design  to  counteract 
the  good  effects  of  his  labours.  Mr.  Thorpe,  afterwards  pastor 
of  the  Independent  Church  at  Masborough,  near  Rotherham, 
ranged  under  the  standard  of  his  most  virulent  opposers ;  and 
not  qontent  with  personal  insult,  added  private  ridicule  to  pub- 
lic interruption.      Public  houses  became   theatres  where  the 

*  Mrs.  Gibbon's  annual  income  was  nearly  1,000/. ;  Mrs  Hutcbeson's  about 
2,000/,  per  annum  ;  and  their  bounty  was  bestowed  upon  the  poor  of  an  exten. 
•ive  circle.  Mr.  Law  died  April  9,  1761,  at  the  advanced  age  of  seventy-five, 
and  bis  remains  were  placed  in  u  new  tomb,  built  bv  Mrs.  Gibbon,  in  the  church 
at  King*8  Cliffe.  Having  long  survived  their  spintual  guide  and  faithful  com- 
panion, Mrs.  Hutchenson  died  in  January  178],  aged  ninety-one,  and  her  remains 
were  placed,  bv  her  particular  desire,  at  tJiefeet  of  Mr,  Law,  in  a  new  tomb. 
Mrs.  Gibbon  followed  her  old  friends  and  companions  in  June  1 790,  aged  eighty- 
six,  and  was  buried  with  Mr.  Law.  Her  property  she  gave  by  will  to  her 
nephew,  the  historian,  who  long  expected  it,  but  not  without  fears  that  his 
aunt  would  leave  it  to  the  friends  and  purposes  to  which  she  had  devoted  her 
life. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OP  HUNTINGDON.  1  t) 

fate  of  religious  opinions  was  to  be  determined.*  But  a  mighty 
change  awaited  Rir.  Thorpe,  the  heart  of  the  scoffer  became 
changed,  and  the  people  whom  in  the  days  of  his  blindness  and 
thraldom  to  Satan  he  so  frequently  revilecf,  became  the  object  of 
his  delight  He  sought  their  company  with  avidity,  and  soon  after 
became  a  member  of  Mr.  Ingham's  connexion,  which  at  this  period 
had  spread  over  a  great  part  of  Yorkshire  and  some  of  the 
neighbouring  counties.  His  habitual  seriousness  and  uniform 
morality  soon  endeared  him  to  his  new  connexions,  and  the  speci- 
men he  gave  of  his  talents,  in  his  occasional  exercises  in  private, 
flattered  their  hopes  that  he  would  soon  be  called  forth  to 
public  notice.    In  these  expectations  they  were  not  disappointed, 

*  It  was  at  one  of  tliese  convivial  resortc  that  Mr.  Thorpe  and  three  of  his 
associates,  to  enliven  the  company,  undertook  to  mimic  Mr.  Whitefield.  The 
proposition  was  highly  gratifjnng  to  all  parties  present,  and  a  wager  agreed  upon 
to  inspire  each  individual  with  a  desire  of  excelling  in  this  impious  attempt. 
That  their  jovial  auditors  might  adjudge  the  prize  to  the  most  adroit  performer, 
it  was  concluded  that  each  should  open  the  Bible  and  hold  forth  from  the  first 
text  that  should  present  itself  to  the  eye.  Accordingly  three  in  their  turn 
mounted  the  table,  and  entertained  their  wicked  companions  at  the  expense  of 
every  thing  sacred.  When  they  had  exhausted  their  little  stock  of  buffoonery, 
it  devolved  on  Mr.  Thorpe  to  close  this  very  irreverent  scene.  Much  elevated, 
and  confident  of  success,  he  exclaimed,  as  he  ascended  the  table,  *'  I  shall  beat 
you  all  !**  But  O,  the  stupendous  depths  of  divine  mercy  I  when  the  Bible  was 
handed  to  him  it  opened  at  that  remarkable  passage,  Luke  xiii.  3— •"  Except  ye 
repent,  ye  shall  all  likewise  perish."  No  sooner  had  he  uttered  these  words 
than  his  mind  was  affectea  in  a  very  extraordinary  manner.  The  sharpest 
pangs  of  conviction  now  seized  him,  and  conscience  denounced  tremendous 
vengeance  upon  his  souL  In  a  moment  he  was  favoured  with  a  clear  view  of 
his  subject,  and  divided  his  discourse  more  like  a  divine  who  had  been  accus- 
tomed to  speak  on  portions  of  Scriptiu'e,  than  like  one  who  never  so  much  as 
thought  on  religious  topics,  except  tor  the  purpose  of  ridicule.  He  found  no 
deficiency  of  matter,  no  want  of  utterance,  and  he  has  frequently  declared,  "  if 
ever  I  preached  in  m^  life  by  the  assistance  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  it  was  at  that 
time.'*  The  impression  made  upon  his  mind  by  the  subject,  had  such  an  effect 
on  his  manner,  that  the  most  ignorant  and  profane  could  not  but  perceive 
that  what  he  had  spoken  was  with  the  greatest  sincerity.  The  unexpected 
solemnity  and  pertinacity  of  his  address,  instead  of  entertaining  the  company, 
first  spread  a  visible  depression,  and  afterwards  a  sullen  gloom,  upon  every 
countenance.  This  sudden  chtoge  in  the  complexion  of  his  associates  did  not 
a  little  conduce  to  increase  the  convictions  of  his  own  bosom.  No  individual 
appeared  disposed  to  intemipt  him  ;  but,  on  the  contrary,  their  attention  was 
deeply  engaged  with  the  pointedness  of  his  remarks ;  yea,  many  of  his  sentences, 
as  he  often  related,  made,  to  his  apprehension,  his  own  ha'r  stand  tract  I 

When  he  left  the  table  not  a  syllable  was  uttered  concerning  the  wager,  but 
a  profound  silence  pervaded  the  company.  Mr.  Thorpe  immediately  with- 
drew, without  taking  the  least  notice  ot  any  person  present,  and  returned 
home,  with  very  painful  reflections,  and  in  the  deepest  distress  imaginable. 
Happily  for  him  this  was  his  last  bacchanalian  revel.  His  impressions  were 
mamfestly  genuine;  and  from  that  period  the  connexion  between  him  and 
his  former  companions  was  entirely  dissolved.  Thus,  by  a  sovereign  and 
almost  unexampled  act  of  divine  grace,  in  a  place  where,  and  at  a  time  when, 
it  was  least  expected,  **  the  prey  was  tbken  uom  the  mighty,  and  the  lawful 
captiyedeliyeredr 


150  TSS  Lire  AND  TIMES  OP 

for  he  was  quickly  sent  forth  by  Mr.  Ingham  to  *<  preach  the 
foith  which  he  once  laboured  to  destroy."  He  afterwards 
preached  for  a  short  time  in  Mr.  Wesley's  connexion ;  but  his 
ideas  becoming  more  enlarged  in  the  doctrines  of  grace,  he  was 
eventually  chosen  pastor  of  the  Independent  Church  at  Mas- 
borough,  where  he  exercised  the  mmisterial  fonction  thirteen 
vears.  On  the  8th  of  November,  1776,  and  the  46th  year  of 
{lis  age,  he  gently  resigned  his  breath  without  a  struggle,  and 
doubtless  went  triumphantly  to  the  perfect  worship  and  happi- 
ness of  heaven !  He  left  a  son,  the  Rev.  William  Thorpe, 
for  many  years  one  of  the  stated  supplies  at  the  Tabernacle  and 
Tottenham  Court  Chapel,  London,  and  minister  of  Castle-green 
Meeting,  in  Bristol. 

It  was  about  this  time  that  Dr.  Doddridge,  who  had  long 
known  and  highly  estimated  the  talents  and  virtues  of  Lady 
Huntingdon,  preached  at  a  meeting  of  Ministers  at  Creaton,  in 
Northamptonshire,  and  afterwards  published  a  sermon,  the  title 
of  which  is,  <<  Christian  Candour  and  Unanimity  stated,  illus- 
trated, and  urged."  This  is  an  admirable  discourse,  and 
exhibits  a  fine  transcript  of  the  author's  own  mind,  which  was 
folly  attuned  to  the  virtue  he  recommended.  It  was  addressed 
to  Lady  Huntingdon,*  and  strongly  displays  his  admiration  of 
her  excellent  character. 

Not  long  after  the  publication  of  this  sermon  Lady  Hunt- 
ingdon wrote  to  Dr.  Doddridge.  Her  letter  speaks  of  his  friend- 
ship and  candour,  and  towards  the  close  mentions  Mr.,  afterwards 
the  well  known  and  excellent  Lord  Lyttleton,  with  whom  her 
Ladyship  became  acquainted  about  this  time.  The  letter  is 
dated  Ashby  Place,  June  6, 1750 : — 

**  My  most  excellent  Friend, — I  know  no  one  who,  without  intending 
it,  seems  more  calculated  to  betray  me  into  a  spirit  of  partiality  than 
yourself :  for  as  your  friendship  and  great  kindness  to  me  bind  me  by 
obligation,  so  your  piety  and  abilities  obtain  both  my  love  and  highest 
estimation ;  and  were  I  to  judge  by  you  of  all  that  tliink  with  you, 
I  should  have  more  to  say  for  my  partiality  than  has  fallen  to  the  share 

♦  We  insert  the  inscription,  written  as  it  is  with  evident  sincerity:  — 
**  To  the  Right  Honourable  the  Countess  of  Huntingdon,  that  eminent  ex. 
ample  of  the  Christian  candour  here  recommended,  and  of  everj  other  virtue 

and  grace  which  can  inspire,  support,  and  adorn  it, the  Author,  finding 

himself  (after  repeated  attempts)  mcapable  of  writing  any  dedication,  under 
the  restraints  which  her  humibty,  amidst  its  utmost  indulgence,  has  prescribed 
him,  or  to  mention  any  excellence  which  would  not  seem  an  encomium  on  her, 
has  chosen  thus  most  respectfuUy  to  inscribe  thia  Discourse;  entreating  that 
his  farther  silence  in  this  connexion  may  be  interpreted  by  her  Ladyship,  and 
by  every  Reader,  as  the  most  sensible  and  painful  proof  he  can  give  of  the 
deference,  veneration,  and  grateful  affection,  with  wnich  he  it  her  Iiidyship^ 
most  obliged  and  obedient  humble  servant." 


SELINA,  COUKTSSi  OF  HUMTIVODON.  151 

of  any  particukr  denomioAtioii ;  and  yet,  b^  looking  a  little  fivther,  I 
find  to  diatinj^sh  is  my  beet  prifilege,  as  it  ever  will  be  one  of  yours 
to  be  most  eminently  mstingoished ;  and  thus  my  preference  honours 
and  admires  in  you  only  what  it  would  rejoice  to  see  in  ail;  but  this 
is  resenred  for  hearen,  and  a  few  pledges  of  it  are  given  us  to  show 
how  worthy  it  will  be  to  all  etermtv  of  our  friendship. 

^  Your  candour  is  such  a  blessedness  about  you,  that  I  fear  it  will 
make  you  too  soon  fit  for  heaven^  and  leave  no  mourning  followers  of 
your  example.  It  is  what  my  whole  soul  aspires  after— it  is  my  reigning 
object,  as  well  as  subject  of  delight ;  yet  how  do  the  fetters  of  prejudice^ 
weakness^  and  ignorance,  contend  with  me ;  and  still  hope  assures  me 
that  feeling  these  so  strong  will  but  occasion  my  bolder  springs  for 
libertv ;  and  while  my  chains  thus  oppress  mc,  my  longing  heart  pants 
for  the  deliverance,  and  sighs  after  the  happy  prospect  of  breathing 
love  upon  the  whole  creation.  I  live  satisfiea  ^  thU  to  be  despised| 
mistaken,  and  reproached ;  rejected  by  all,  yet  rejecting  none ;  from 
the  unwearied  labours  of  my  life  and  love  hoping  all  things,  and,  in 
conformity  to  heaven's  best  gift  to  man,  the  Son  of  Ood,  ready  to  yield 
up  tiiose  prison  garments  of  flesh  and  blood  a  humble  offering  to  testify 
it.  For  such  a  paradise  in  man  it  was  that  Jesus  Christ  paid  toe 
penalty — ^for  this  blessed  reality  he  died.  0,  this  high  price  I  Happjr 
am  I,  though  but  a  redeemed  sUve,  and  following  my  mightv  Con* 
queror  in  the  bonds  of  guilt,  fear,  and  shame ;  the  mmtitada  does  not 
make  him  forget  me,  though  so  &r  behind  them  all ;  and  on  his  pardon, 
the  captive's  liberty  has  reached  my  rebellious  heart,  he  will  yet  delight 
to  listen. 

^  Thus  does  divine  oompasnon  show  me  the  extremes  of  love  in  him^ 
and  by  it  best  discovers  the  depths  of  nusery  in  myself,  and  that  nothing 
but  a  sad  insensibility  to  the  one  can  exclude  me  Arom  the  other* 
That  watchful  care  follows  every  unguarded  thought,  and  with  those 
eyes  which  are  as  flames  of  fire,  pursues  all  our  enemies  and  drivee 
them  out  before  os,  so  will  he  prepare  the  habitation  of  his  creatures 
for  himsdf,  till  f^m  die  charity  of  their  souls  he  can  rejoice  in  them; 
it  IB  throu^  this  transparency  alone  we  can  behold  him,  for  '  blessed 
are  the  pure  in  heart,  for  they  shall  see  God ;'  and,  indeed,  when  we 
reflect  upon  the  price  of  our  ransom,  we  can  join  in  the  reasonableness 
of  the  Apostle's  argument,  and  expect  unboundedly  from  such  lib^idity, 
^  He  wIm  spared  not  his  own  Son,  but  delivered  Him  up  for  us  all, 
how  shall  he  not  with  Him  fredtf  give  u*  all  things  T  and  yet  by  man 
a  guilty  heart  is  thought  too  much  to  offer  him.  Oh  I  had  he  not  the 
love  of  a  God,  even  c«rth  could  not  bear  us,  heaven  could  not  receive 
us,  and  then  our  miserable  but  just  portion  in  eternal  banishment 
would  be  to  eujoy  only  our  own  horrid  natures*-«ll  we  could  have 
left,  and  hell  enoogh.  I  can  say,  for  one,  mine  would  be  so  were  I 
left  to  ii^  and  that,  my  worthy  friend^  I  6nd  m^^self  a  miaeraUe  beioi|^ 
existing  in  time  out  of  eternity ;  but  that  only  in  order  to  beeome,  by 
an  infinite  redemption  fr^mi  em^  a  glorious  ^^PJ^  <^<^  immortal  crea- 
ture, by  an  aequaintsnee  and  resemblaooe  of  nature  with  the  God  and 
Lord  of  all  heaven  and  earth ;  and  I  do  now,  in  part,  by  aetucU  pos- 
session rejoice  in  the  hope  of  that  gjiory  with  God  for  evermore. 


152  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

These  truths  want  no  metaphors :  that  well  of  Hying  water  is  ever 
springing  up,  and  will  eternally  abound  with  further  displays  of  these 
infallible  truths ;  and  thus  a  Christian  can  never  have  cause  to  despair, 
or  ask  any  one  if  the  promises  in  the  Bible  belong  to  him ; — ^he  has 
got  them,  they  are  wrote  with  the  spirit  of  the  living  God  ^vithin  him, 
and  each  hour  serves  but  to  make  the  characters  more  legible.  Of 
this  divine  knowledge  my  soul  now  breathes  with  the  force  and  ardour 
of  anticipated  glory  in  hallelujahs  with  those  blessed  spirits  who  are 
permitted  to  rejoice  for  us,  though  not  with  us ;  they  are  strangers  to 
the  joys  of  redemption ;  and  oh  I  they  must  long  to  have  come  from 
Abraham's  loins,  since  the  humiHty  of  Jesus  took  upon  him  his  nature ; 
and  who,  being  thus  lowly>  makes  them  the  blessed  beings  they  are. 
Alas !  what  a  lesson  of  numiHty  have  they  come  from ;  rather^  how 
must  they  see  their  glory  in  this  respect  to  be  nothing,  by  reason  of 
that  which  so  far  excelled  in  the  Son  of  God :  they  gaze  and  admire^ 
but  these  depths  exceed  the  capacities  of  their  natures.  But  how,  or 
where  am  I  looking  myself?  Even  in  a  mystery  the  angels  are  not 
worthy  to  look  into  ;  forgive  the  eager  adoration  and  high  sensibility  of 
the  love  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  carries  my  transported  heart  to  forget 
what  I  am,  from  the  view  of  what  his  love  is  resolved  to  make  me, 
and  from  my  great  poverty,  do  not  wonder  that  this  exaltation  seems 
too  much  for  me ;  it  is  literally  taking  the  beegar  out  of  the  dust  and 
seating  him  for  a  moment  with  the  princes  of  his  people. 

^*  But  I  must  now  beg  you  to  return  my  kindest  respects  to  Mr. 
Lyttleton.  I  honour  his  sentiments  of  universal  love  to  all  good  men ; 
may  the  choicest  of  all  blessings  rest  upon  him  !  I  own  I  should  be 
glad  to  hear  he  was  out  of  those  trammels  his  vast  parts  and  knowledge 
may  make  him  liable  to  continue  in  long ;  his  heart  none  ever  doubted 
of  being  truly  upright ;  but  under  such  his  great  temporal  advantages, 
these  humble  condescensions  of  becoming  simple  and  quite  unknown 
before  God  as  a  little  child^  perhaps  his  wnole  me  has  been  calculated 
to  destroy ;  books,  men>  friends,  earthly  pursuits,  with  the  wise  man's 
ambitious  heart,  all  serve  but  to  hold  that  humDity  cheap  which  is  to 
exalt  God  above  all  these  ;  and  till  He  is  depended  upon  for  ally  as 
ilie  ignorance  and  helplessness  of  a  little  child  makes  his  parent  the 
object  of  a//  its  hopes  and  fears,  there  is  no  help  for  man  that  can  yield 
him  a  rational  joy,  or  a  secure  hour  upon  earth.  I  suspect  you  have 
spoken  of  me  to  him  with  that  partiality  of  the  friend  1  have  felt  you 
to  be  :  this  is  owing,  to  your  knowing  me  but  little,  as  well  as  the 
goodness  of  your  heart,  that  it  makes  you  hope  ail  things. 

^  Assure  Mrs.  Doddridge  it  is  I  must  sustain  the  disappointment^  by 
not  having  the  pleasure  of  seeing  her.  How  am  I  bound  to  your 
prayers !  It  is  tnese  have  again  lifted  me  from  the  gates  of  death.  Do 
thank  and  bless  ybr  me  the  kindness  of  those  charitable  souls  who  so 
entreated  for  me ;  may  heaven,  with  every  pure  joy  upon  earthy  be 
their  reward. 

**  I  am,  my  most  excellent  friend,  with  the  truest  respect,  and  most 
affectionate  regard,  your  companion  in  die  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 

'^S,  Huntingdon." 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  153 

Before  Mr.  Whitefield  left  Ashby,  Lady  Huntingdon  wrote 
to  Mr.  Hervey,  requesting  him  to  pay  her  a  visit  as  soon  as 
convenient.  Mr.  Hervey  obeyed  the  summons,  and  arrived  at 
Ashbj'  a  few  days  before  Mr.  Whitefield  set  out  on  his  tour. 
Mr.  fiaddelley  had  been  some  weeks  in  London,  and  during  his 
absence  Mr.  Graves  and  Mr.  Simpson  alternately  supplied  his 
place  as  domestic  chaplain  to  the  Countess  and  the  Ladies 
Hastings.  Mr.  Baddelley  had  been  usefully  and  actively  en- 
gaged during  his  stay  in  the  metropolis,  preaching  whenever  he 
could  obtain  a  pulpit : — 

''  I  am  glad  (says  Mr.  Whitefield)  you  have  sounded  the  silver 
trumpet  in  London;  crescit  eundo  must  be  yonr  motto  and  mine. 
There  is  nothing  like  keeping  the  wheels  oiled  by  action.  The  more 
we  do,  the  more  we  may  do ;  every  act  strengthens  the  habit :  and 
the  best  preparation  for  preaching  on  Sundays  is  to  preach  every  day 
in  the  week.  I  am  glad  you  have  peace  at  Ashby.  What  a  fool  is 
Satan  always  to  over^oot  his  mark  !  I  hope  that  Mr.  Graves,  as  well 
as  Mr.  Simpson,  will  hold  on.  They  will  oe  glorious  monuments  of 
free  grace  indeed.  I  am  like-minded  with  you  in  respect  to  the  Doc- 
tor's comment ;  he  is  indeed  a  glorious  writer !  May  the  Lord  Jesus 
strengthen  him  to  finish  the  work !  My  dear  Mr.  Baddelley,  what 
blessed  opportunities  do  you  enjoy  for  meditation,  study,  and  prayer ! 
Now  is  your  time  to  get  rich  in  grace,  to  search  into  the  depths  of 
divine  love,  and  the  mystery  of  iniquity  hid  in  you  own  heart  Stich 
an  example  J  and  such  advantages,  no  one  in  England  is  favoured  with 
but  yourself,  I  do  not  envy  you ;  but  I  pray  the  Redeemer,  from  my 
inmost  soul,  to  sanctify  your  situation,  and  give  you  to  increase  with 
all  the  increase  of  God." 

In  the  month  of  June  Dr.  Doddridge  arrived  at  Ashby,  but 
his  stay  was  of  short  duration,  the  duties  of  his  congregation 
obliging  him  to  return  to  Northampton,  having  but  lately  re- 
turned from  London,  Norwich,  and  other  places,  where  he  had 
been  preaching  with  great  acceptance  and  success.  He  remained 
one  Lord's  day  at  her  Ladyship's,  on  which  day  Mr.  Baddelley 
read  the  service  of  the  Churcn  of  England,  aud  the  Doctor 
preached  to  a  numerous  congregation.  In  the  evening  Dr. 
Doddridge  exchanged  places  with  her  Ladyship's  chaplain, 
reading  the  Liturgy,  and  Mr.  Baddelley  preaching.  Speaking 
of  this  circumstances,  Lady  Huntingdon  remarks : — 

*<  His  is  a  true  catholic  spirit  that  ^vishes  well  to  the  cause  of  Christ 
in  every  denomination.  I  would  that  all  the  Dissenting  Ministers  I 
hear  of  were  like-minded  ;  less  attached  to  all  the  punctSUos  of  order, 
system,  regularity,  &c.,  and  more  determined  to  publish  the  glorious 
Gospel  of  the  ever-blessed  Immanuel,  in  season  and  out  of  season, 
wherever  men  were  assembled  to  hear,  whether  in  a  church,  a  meeting- 
house, a  field,  or  a  bam ;— less  desirous  to  convince  men  of  the  errors 


154  THE  LITE  AKD  TIMES  OF 

m  tlie  discipline  of  those  cliurcbes  wlio  liold  the  great  doetrines  of  the 
Reformation^  and  more  anxiously  solicitous  to  gather  souls  to  Christ, 
the  true  Shiloh.  This  should  he  the  one  great  object  of  those  who 
are  called  to  the  high  and  honourable  office  of  Ambassadors  of  Christ 
— all  others  are  unimportant  when  compared  with  this." 

Of  this  visit  to  Ashby,  the  providential  escape  of  his  MSS. 
from  destruction,  and  some  singular  circumstances  which  pre- 
ceded  it,  the  Doctor  has  preserved  the  following  very  interesting 
account,  contained  in  a  letter  to  his  pupil,  the  Rev.  Benjamin 
Fawcett,  of  Kidderminster : — 

«  Northampton,  June  26, 1750. 

*^  Lady  Huntingdon,  for  whom  I  desired  your  prayers,  is  wonder- 
fully recovered.  She  walked  with  me  in  the  garuen  and  park,  and 
almost  wearied  me ;  such  is  her  recruit  of  strength  :  but  the  strength 
of  her  soul  is  amazing.  I  think  I  never  saw  so  much  of  the  ima^e  of 
Gk>d  in  any  woman  upon  earth.  Were  I  to  write  what  I  know  of  her, 
it  would  fill  your  heart  with  wonder,  joy,  and  praise.  She  desired 
me  to  educate  a  lad  for  the  Dissenting  ministry  at  her  expense,  till  he 
be  fit  to  come  into  my  academy  on  an  exhibition ;  and  this  is  but  one 
of  a  multitude  of  good  works  she  is  continuallv  performing.  I  must 
tell  yon,  however,  one  observation  of  hers  whicn  struck  me  much : 
'  None,'  Bfdd  she, '  know  how  to  prize  Christ  but  those  who  are  zealous 
in  good  works.  Men  know  not  till  they  try  what  imperfect  things  our 
best  works  are,  and  how  deficient  we  are  in  them ;  and  the  experience 
of  that  sweetness  which  attends  their  performance  makes  me  more 
sensible  of  those  obligations  to  Him,  whose  grace  is  the  principle  of 
them  in  our  hearts.'  She  has  God  dwelling  in  her,  and  she  is  ever 
bearing  her  testimony  to  the  present  salvation  he  has  g^ven  us,  and  to 
the  fountain  of  living  waters  which  she  feels  springing  up  in  her  soul, 
so  that  she  knows  &e  divine  original  of  the  promises  before  the  per- 
formance of  them  to  her,  as  she  knows  God  to  be  her  Creator  by  the 
life  he  has  given  her. 

'^  As  I  was  setting  out  on  my  blessed  journey  to  her,  for  such  indeed 
it  was,  yesterday  was  seven-night,  a  terrible  accident  happened  in  my 
study,  which  mieht  have  been  attended  with  fatal  consequences :  I  had 
been  sealing  a  letter  with  a  litde  roll  of  wax,  and  I  thought  I  had 
blown  it  out,  when  fanned  by  the  motion  of  the  air,  as  I  arose  in  haste, 
it  was  re-kindled.  It  burnt  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  while  we  were 
at  prayer,  and  would  have  gone  on  to  consume  perhaps  the  closet  and 
the  house,  had  not  my  opposite  neighbour  seen  tne  flame  and  given  an 
alarm.  When  I  came  up,  I  found  my  desk,  which  was  covered  with 
papers,  burning  like  an  altar ;  many  letters,  papers  of  memoranda, 
and  schemes  for  sermons,  were  consumed.  My  book  of  accounts  was 
on  fire,  and  the  names  at  tlie  top  almost  burnt  through,  a  volume  of 
the  Family  Expositor,  the  original  MSS.  from  Corinthians  to  Ephestans, 
tarrounded  with  flames,  and  drenched  in  melted  wax ;  the  fire  had 
kindled  up  aioand  it,  and  burnt  off  some  leaves  and  the  comers  of  the 
other  books,  so  that  diaro  is  not  one  leaf  entire:  and  yet »  did  God 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HtTNTIKGDON.  15S 

moderate  the  rage  of  this  element,  and  determine  in  his  Providence 
the  time  of  our  entrance,  that  not  one  account  is  rendered  unoertun 
hy  what  it  sufiered,  nor  is  one  line  which  had  not  been  transcribed 
destroyed  in  the  MS.  I  have  to  add  that  all  my  vouchers  for  Miss 
Ekins'*  money,  all  my  sermons  and  MSS.  intended  for  the  press,  and, 
among  the  rest,  the  reminder  of  the  Family  Expositor,  were  all  in 
such  danger,  that  the  fire  in  another  quarter  of  an  hour  had  probably 
consumed  them.  Observe^  my  dear  friend^  the  hand  of  God^  and  mag* 
nifv  the  Lord  with  me." 

We  find  in  the  memoranda  of  remarkable  incidents  in  the  life 
of  Dr.  Doddridge — a  narrative  of  what  he  considered  the  special 
dealings  of  Providence,  with  regard  to  himself  and  some  persons 
of  his  acquaintance — these  allusions  to  our  subject : — 

"  The  mercies  of  my  journey  (says  he)  I  would  solemnly  acknow- 
ledge ;  the  wonderful  preservation  of  my  study  from  fire,  and  the  great 
goodness  of  God  in  sparing  the  dear  and  excdlent  Lady  Huntingidon, 
my  interview  with  her,  and  the  preservation  and  growing  friendship  of 
her  Ladyship." 

Leaving  Rotherham,  Mr.  Whitefield  proceeded  to  Sheffield 
and  Leeds,  where  he  was  attended  by  vast  multitudes,  and  from 
thence  to  Aberford,  on  a  visit  to  Mr.  and  Lady  Margaret  Ing- 
ham. At  Sheffield  the  people  received  the  word  gladly ;  and 
a  great  alteration  was  discernible  in  their  looks  and  behaviour 

*  Afterwards  Lady  Stonhouse,  the  only  child  tiid  Imit  of  llioinaa  Ekins, 
Esq.,  of  Chester-oiu the- Water,  in  Northamptonshire,  a  justice  of  the  peace, 
and  a  most  religious  man.  His  funeral  sermon  was  preached  at  Wellineborough, 
by  Dr.  Doddrioge,  and  afterwards  transcribed  from  the  Doctor's  mort  iMnd 
copy  in  hitg  hand,  br  a  son  of  Dr.  Johnstone,  a  worthy  phjrsician  at  W<Htrester» 
the  text  is  Heb.  xi.  26.  **  Her  father  (sajrs  Dr.  Stonhouse)  was  a  Christiaa 
of  the  first  magnitude,  who  left  Dr.  Doddridge  sole  guardian  to  his  child.  The 
Doctor  died  before  I  married  her,  Mrhich  I  ud  not  do  till  after  she  was  of  afp, 
and  in  fuU  possession  of  her  property.  Dr.  Doddridge's  account  of  her  estate 
and  expenses  was  so  very  just,  that  he  really  did  not  do  himself  justice,  bk 
coTisideration  of  which  we  made  his  widow  a  handsome  present,  as  a  satisfactloa 
for  his  undercharges."  ^-^J  Stonhouse  died  at  the  Hot  Wells,  Bristol,  De- 
cember 10,  1778,  aged  fifty-five.  A  plain  but  elegant  monument  vnu  erected 
to  her  memory  in  the  Wells  chapel,  with  an  epitaph  written  by  Mrs.  Hannah 
More.  She  left  two  sons,  John,  in  the  civil  service  of  the  East  India  Company 
at  Bengal,  father  of  the  present  Bart,  Sir  John  Brooke  Stonhouse ;  TimoAy, 
iji  holy  orders,  Vicar  of  Sunningwell,  county  of  Berks,  who  took  the  surname 
and  arms  of  Vigor,  and  married  Miss  Huntingford,  niece  of  the  Bishop  of  Here- 
ford ;  and  a  daughter,  Clarissa,  wife  of  Henry  Tripp  Vigor,  Eso.  The  first 
wife  of  Sir  Jaraies  Stonhouse  was  Anne  Neale,  as  already  stated,  one  of  the 
maids  of  honour  to  Caroline,  Queen  of  Geoi^  II.,  by  whom  he  luid  issue  Sir 
Thomas  Stonhouse,  the  thirteenth  Baronet,  who  died  unmarried,  and  Saralv 
who  married  her  cousin,  George  Vansittart,  Esq.,  of  Bisham  Abbey,  M.P.  for 
the  county  of  Berks  in  several  Ptoiiaments,  by  whom  she  had  three  son*  and 
three  daughters.  Mr.  Vaoaittart  was  uncle  to  the  preaent  Lord  Bexley.  The 
Rev.  Sir  James  Stonhouse  survived  Lady  Stonhouse  but  a  few  years.  He 
died  December  %,  ITdS;  aged  eighty,  and  was  buried  iti  the  WeOt  chif^el,  in  Uie 
Mune  gimve  with  Ids  bciovvd  wife. 


156  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

since  he  had  been  there  before.  Mr.  Grimshaw  and  Mr.  Ing- 
ham joined  Mr.  Whitefield  at  Leeds,  and  the  crowds  that  as- 
sembled from  every  side  exceeded  any  thing  they  had  ever  seen 
before  in  that  part  of  Yorkshire.     "  Last  night  (says  he)   I 

S reached  to  many,  many  thousands,  and  this  morning  also  at 
ve  o'clock.  Methinks  I  am  now  got  into  another  climate.  It 
must  be  a  warm  one,  where  there  are  so  many  of  God's  people. 
Our  Pentecost  is  to  be  kept  at  Mr.  Grimshaw's :  I  have  seen 
him  and  Mr.  Ingham."  For  these  occasional  itinerant  visits 
Mr.  Whitefield's  talents  were  admirably  adapted.  His  manner, 
his  voice,  his  action,  and,  above  all,  his  solemnity  and  fervour, 
commanded  and  riveted  the  attention  beyond  any  thing  that 
modern  times  have  exhibited.  When  he  was  at  Haworth  the 
Lord's  Supper  was  frequently  administered,  not  only  to  the 
stated  communicants,  but  to  hundreds  from  other  quarters,  who 
resorted  thither  on  those  solemn  occasions,  esteeming  them, 
in  a  peculiar  sense,  as  "  days  of  the  Son  of  Man ;"  such,  in 
many  respects,  as  had  never  been  witnessed  since  the  first  pro- 
mulgation of  Christionity,  when  the  Spirit  was,  in  so  eminent  a 
degree,  "  poured  out  from  on  high."  "  Pen  (says  Mr.  White- 
field,  in  a  letter  to  Mr.  Hervey,)  cannot  well  describe  what 
glorious  scenes  have  opened  in  Yorkshire.  Perhaps,  since  I 
saw  you  at  Ashby,  seventy  or  eighty  thousand  have  attended 
the  word  preached  in  divers  places.  At  Haworth,  on  Whitsun- 
day, the  church  was  thrice  filled  with  communicants.  It  was  a 
precious  season." 

Accompanied  by  Mr.  Grimshaw  and  Mr.  Ingham,  Mr.  White- 
field  visited  Manchester,  where  they  found  Colonel  and  Mrs. 
Galatin,  who  received  them  with  the  greatest  cordiality.  "  All 
was  quiet  (he  writes  to  Lady  Huntingdon)  at  Manchester,  and 
I  humbly  hope  the  Redeemer  will  gather  to  himself  a  people 
there.  Kind  Colonel  Galatin  and  his  lady  will  acquaint  your 
Ladyship  with  particulars.  I  hope  he  will  prove  a  good  soldier 
of  Jesus  Christ.  I  advised  him  to  send  your  Ladyship  word 
of  their  coming  to  Ashby,  that  they  might  be  directed  the  best 
road  from  Derby."  Through  different  parts  of  Lancashire, 
Westmoreland,  and  Cumbenand,  Mr.  Whitefield  was  accom- 
panied by  Mr.  Ingham  and  Mr.  Milner;  Mr.  Grimshaw  having 
returned  to  Haworth.  Every  where  he  preached  in  Mr.  Ing- 
ham's chapels,  and,  as  usual,  was  attended  by  large  and  atten- 
tive congregations.  At  Kendal,  and  Ulverston,  and  White- 
haven, where  La^y  Huntingdon  afterwards  had  chapels,  he  was 
followed  by  immense  multitudes,  who  thronged  around  him, 
eager  to  hear  all  the  words  of  this  life.  From  Kendal  we  find 
him  writing  thus  to  Mr.  Hervey : — "  I  guess  this  will  find  you 


SELIKA,  COUNTESS  OT  HUNTINGDON.  157 

returned  from  good  Lady  Huntingdon,  with  whom,  undoubtedly} 
you  have  taken  sweet  counsel,  and  been  mightily  refreshed  m 
talking  about  the  things  which  belong  to  the  kingdom  of  God. 
This  leaves  me  at  Kendal,  where  I  arrived  this  morning,  and 
where,  God  willing,  I  shall  preach  the  everlasting  Gospel  this 
evening."  Soon  after  his  arrival  he  was  joined  by  Mr.  Batty,  a 
very  popular  preacher  in  Mr.  Ingham's  connexion.  Mr.  White- 
field  preached  on  the  brow  of  a  hill,  which  overlooks  the  town, 
to  many  thousands  of  hearers.  That  night,  some  evil-disposed 
persons  got  into  the  barn  and  stable  where  his  travelling  car- 
riage and  horses  were  locked  up :  the  leathers  were  all  de- 
stroyed, and  the  carriage  otherwise  much  abused :  they  also 
cut  off  the  long  tails  of  a  pair  of  black  horses  that  he  had  had 
a  long  time,  and  greatly  esteemed.  Nevertheless,  he  rejoiced 
at  the  success  attending  his  labours.  <<  Still  (he  observes,  in 
a  letter  to  Lady  Huntingdon,)  the  Lord  of  all  lords  vouchsafes 
to  prosper  the  Gospel  plough.  Such  an  entrance  hath  been 
made  into  Kendal,  as  could  not  have  been  expected.  I  preached 
twice  to  several  thousands  last  week,  and  the  people  were  so 
importunate  that  I  was  prevailed  on  to  return  hither  again  last 
night ;  the  congregation  was  greatly  increased,  and  the  power 
of  the  Lord  was  displayed  in  the  midst  of  them." 

After  preaching  some  weeks  in  Scotland,  Mr.  Whitefield 
returned  to  London,  where,  besides  his  usual  labours  at  the 
Tabernacle,  he  frequently  assisted  Mr.  Wesley,  at  West-street 
Chapel.  "  Mr.  Wesley  (says  he)  breakfasted  and  prayed  with 
me  tnis  morning ;  and  Mr.  Hervey  was  so  kind  as  to  come  up 
and  be  with  me  in  my  house.  He  is  a  dear  man,  and  I  trust 
will  yet  be  spared  to  write  much  for  the  Redeemer's  glory.  I 
have  prevailed  on  him  to  sit  for  his  picture,  and  it  will  be  pub- 
lished in  a  short  time."  Mr.  Hervey's  health  was  so  dehcate 
that  Dr.  Stonhouse  advised  change  of  air,  and  Mr.  Whitefield 
invited  him  to  the  Tabernacle-house,  in  London.  On  his  way 
thither  he  paid  a  visit  to  Dr.  Cotton,  an  eminent  physician  and 

f)oet,  who  resided  at  St.  Alban's,  where  he  kept  an  asylum  for 
unatics,  in  the  treatment  of  whom  he  was  remarkably  skilfiil. 
By  means  of  Dr.  Stonhouse  he  was  introduced  to  the  notice  of 
Lady  Huntingdon,  who  had  a  great  esteem  for  him,  and  occa- 
sionally corresponded  with  him.  When  the  Doctor  published 
his  "  Visions,"  he  sent  a  copy  to  her  ladyship,  who,  in  her 
letter  acknowledging  the  receipt  of  the  present,  made  some 
strong  animadversions  on  the  defects  of  the  poem: — 

''  I  am  glad  (says  licr  Ladyship)  that  my  good  friend  was  not 
offeuded  at  my  late  weU-meant  admonition  and  reproof    We  must  he 


168  THE  UFB  AND  TIBCES  OF 

ikithful  to  each  other,  or  else  how  can  we  expect  to  meet  with  joy  at 
the  great  tribunal  ?  I  trust  he  will  yet  be  enabled  to  see  by  faith  the 
Lord's  Christ.  Blessed  be  God,  in  him  all  fulness  dwells,  of  merit 
and  righteousness^  of  grace  and  salvation,  and  this  for  the  vilest  of  the 
vile,  for  whoever  will.     0,  then,  my  friend, 

*  If  haply  still  thy  mental  shade 
Dark  ad  the  midnight  gloom  be  made, 
On  the  sure  faithful  arm  Dirine 
Firm  let  iby  fiut^ing  trust  recline. 
The  gentlest  sire,  the  best  of  friends. 
To  thee  nor  loss  nor  harm  intends ; 
Though  tost  on  a  tempestuous  main, 
No  wreck  thy  vessel  shall  sustain. 
Should  there  remain  of  rescuing  grace 
No  glimpse,  no  footsteps  left  to  trace. 
Hear  the  Lord's  voice ;  *ti8  Jesus*  will : — 
'  Believe  (thou  poor  dark  pilgrim)  still.* 

**  Thus  much  (continues  the  Countess)  I  have  written  to  my  worthy 
friend  at  St.  Alban's,  and  I  trust  God  will  bless  my  poor  unworthy 
services  to  his  eternal  good.  I  long  to  see  his  fine  genms  consecrated 
to  the  best  of  causes — the  glory  of  our  incarnate  God,  and  the  salva- 
tion of  souls  redeemed  by  his  moat  precious  blood." 

To  his  pious  and  ingenious  fnend,  the  author  of  **  Medita- 
tions," Dr.  Cotton  also  sent  a  copy  of  his  "  Visions."  In  a 
letter  to  Dr.  Stonhouse,  also  a  poet  and  a  critic,  Mr.  Hervey 
makes  some  excellent  observations  on  the  merits  and  defects  of 
the  Doctor^s  work : — 

<^  Please  (says  he)  to  make  my  best  thanks  to  Dr.  Cotton,  for  his 
very  dehcate  ^  Visions.'  I  think  they  may  do  good,  and  promote 
virtue ;  then,  I  am  persuaded^  they  will  answer  the  benevolent  inten- 
tion of  the  author.  I  wish,  at  the  same  time,  that  he  would  be  n  little 
explicit  and  courageous  for  Jesus  Christ.  He  deserves  it  at  our  bauds, 
who,  for  our  sake,  endured  the  cross  and  despised  the  shame  :  he  will 
recompense  it  unto  our  bosom,  by  owning  us  oefore  his  Father  and  the 
holy  angels.  Nor  can  I  ever  think  that  die  spread  of  our  performances 
will  be  obstructed  by  pleasing  Him  who  has  all  hearts  and  all  events 
in  his  sovereign  band.  A  vision  upon  death,  without  a  display  of 
Christ,  seems  to  me  like  a  body  without  a  heart,  or  a  heart  without 
anunal  spirits.  I  am  sure,  when  I  was  lately  (as  myself  and  every  one 
apprehended)  on  the  brink  of  eternity,  I  found  no  consolation  but  in 
Christ  Then  I  felt,  what  I  had  so  ofien  read,  that  there  is  no  other 
same  aiven  under  heaven  whereby  man  may  obtain  life  and  salvation, 
but  only  the  name,  the  precious  and  inestimable  name  of  Jesus  Cbrist. 
O,  that  its  savour  may  be  to  us,  both  living  and  dying,  as  ointment 
poured  cut  Shall  I  beg  you  to  tell  Dr.  Cotton,  that  his  beautiful 
^  Visions'  were,  by  DodeJey,  the  bookseller,  put  into  tlie  hands  of  a 
very  pious  and  ingenious  Mend  of  nune  (Mr.  Moses  Browne,)  who 
propoew  an  alteration  in  a  line,  where  he  would  read  Jents^  instead  of 
pirtue. 


SELINA,  CX)UKTXSS  09  aVKTlHODON.  150 

^  *  At  that  important  hoar  of  need, 
Jesus  shall  prove  a  friend  indeed.* 

^'  But  I  am  not  of  his  opinion,  unless  an  uniform  vein  of  evangelical 
doctrine  had  run  through  the  whole.  This,  I  must  confess,  I  could 
have  heen  glad  to  have  seen  in  so  elecant  a  poem  where  Spenser's 
fimcy  and  Prior's  ease  are  united.  Ana  I  hope,  if  the  Doctor  should 
eyer  write  any  more  poetry^  he  will  take  this  important  hint  into  his 
consideration.  Indeed,  he  ought ;  for  even  in  his  <  Vision  on  Death' 
he  has  not  paid  the  least  regard  to  Christ  the  Redeemer,  tl^e  conqueror 
of  death." 

During  Mr.  Harvey's  residence  in  London  Dr.  Cotton  visited 
the  metropolis,  and  it  was  Lady  Huntingdon's  wish  that  that 
good  man  should  avail  himself  of  the  £)octx)r's  medical  skilly 
and  at  the  same  time  drop  such  hints  as  mi^ht,  by  the  blessing 
of  God,  be  made  useful  to  him.  "If  lam  tolerably  well 
(says  Mr.  Hervey),  I  will  wait  upon  Dr.  Cotton  on  Tues- 
day morning.  He  has  a  delicate  genius,  and  I  dare  say  he  is 
an  excellent  physician.  O,  that  his  fine  parts  may  be  grafted 
into  the  true  olive-tree,  and  bring  forth  fruit  unto  God.  If 
Providence  permits  us  to  meet,  I  hope  to  have  some  evangelical 
discourse  with  him." 

Some  time  after,  Lady  Huntingdon  sent  Dr.  Cotton  a  present 
of  Marshall's  "  Gospel  Mystery  of  Sanctification,''  a  work  that 
has  long  had  the  seal  of  high  approbation  from  many  judicious 
ministers  and  Christians.  It  had  been  recommended  to  her 
Ladyship's  notice  by  Mr.Cudworth,  a  preacher  in  Mr.  White- 
field's  connexion,  who  sometimes  visitea  Mr.  Hervey,  and  occa- 
sionally preached  at  Ashby  and  other  places  in  the  nei^hbour^ 
hood.  But  Dr.  Cotton  thought  the  doctrine  contained  in 
Marshall's*  book  inconsistent  with  Scripture  and  repugnant  to 
reason.  This  produced  a  little  controversy,  in  which  Mr.  He> 
vey  ably  defended  his  favourite  author.     On  this  subject  he 

•  The  fiuned  poet,  William  Cowper,  E«q.,  who  had  been  long  under  Dr. 
Cotton*8  care  at  St  Alban*s  was  very  partial  to  this  work.  In  one  of  his 
letters  we  find  the  following  words :  **  Marshall  lies  on  loy  table,  and  is  an 
old  acquaintance  of  mine.  I  hare  both  read  bim  and  beard  him  read  with 
pleasure  and  edification ;  the  doctrines  he  maintains  are,  under  the  influenee 
of  the  Spirit  of  Christ,  the  very  life  of  my  soul,  and  the  soul  of  all  mj  happi- 
ness. I  Uiink  Marshall  one  ofthe  best  writers,  and  the  most  spiritual  expositor 
of  the  Scriptures,  I  ever  read  :  I  admire  the  strength  of  his  atgument  and  the 
clearness  of  his  reasoning,  upon  the  parts  of  our  boly  religion  which  are  least 
imderstood  (even  by^  real  Christians^^  as  a  master-piece  of  the  kind." 

Dr.  Cotton  is  said  to  have  studied  under  Botrhaave,  the  most  celebrated 
professor  of  phvsic  of  the  early  part  of  the  eighteenth  century,  at  Leyden, 
where  he  took  nis  Doctor's  decree.  He  was  very  assiduous  in  his  attcntioiis 
to  Dr.  Young,  author  of  **  Night  Thoughts,**  whom  he  attended  in  his  last 
illness.  Hia  worka,  which  are  chieiy  on  medical  sulijects,  were  collected  and 
puUiihed  in  two  Tolimioi^  in  1791.    Bt  died  Asgvft  %  178GI 


160  THB  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

uses  a  little  pleasantry^th  his  friend  Dr.  Stonhouse,  who  became 
the  medium  of  communication  in  this  affair  : — 

**  Tell  our  ingenious  friend  at  St.'Alban*s,  if  I  did  not  give  a  direct 
answer  to  his  question,  it  was  because  ho  stated  it  improperly.  His 
manner  was  lixe  making  a  raw  apothecary's  apprentice  the  proper 
judge  of  a  doctor  s  bill.  If  such  a  chap  should  take  upon  himself- to 
say  ^  Doctor,  your  language  his  unintelligible,  your  recipes  are  injudi- 
cious,' what  answer  would  you  make  ?  Some  such  answer  must  be 
made  to  Dr.  Cotton,  if  he  maintain,  or  would  intimate,  that  the  Mystery 
of  Sanctification,  as  delineated  by  Marshall,  is  unintelligihle  and  inju- 
dicious, merely  because  he  does  not  immediately  discern  its  propriety. 

"  This  (says  Dr.  Cotton)  is  my  firm  faith/  'that  if  we  do  well,  we 
shall  be  accepted  through  the  merits  of  Christ'  I  might  ask  the  Doctor 
whether  he  does  well  ?  Dare  he  avow  this,  even  before  me,  his  fellow- 
worm  and  fellow-sinner  ?  How  then  will  he  maintain  the  pretension 
before  that  infinitely  pure  God,  in  whose  sight  the  very  heavens  arc 
unclean  ?  But  I  choose  to  ask  him  (what  may  seem  less  offensive), 
has  he  never  read  of  ^  the  righteousness  of  faith  V  of  being  ^  made 
righteous  by  one  man's  obedience  ?'  of '  righteousness  imputed  without 
works  ?'  Now,  I  should  be  glad  to  learn  what  the  Holy  Spirit  means 
by  these  expressions  ?  And  if  our  worthy  friend  pleases  to  show  how 
his  faith  can  be  made  conformable  to  any  one  of  these  texts,  I  will 
undertake  to  demonstrate  the  conformity  of  my  faith  to  them  all.  Ah ! 
why  should  we  hug  a  despicable  rag,  and  reject  a  suit  of  beautiful 
apparel  ?  May  the  Lord  Jesus  enable  us  all  to  discern  the  things  that 
are  excellent." 

Prevailed  on  by  the  repeated  importunity  of  Lady  Hunting- 
don and  Mr.  Whitefield,  Mr,  Hervey  came  to  London  by  easy 
stages,  in  order  to  try  whether  change  of  air  might  be  of  any 
service  to  his  decayed  constitution  ;  nis  worthy  pnysician,  Dr. 
Stonhouse,  having  declared  that  nothing  which  he  could  pre- 
scribe was  likely  to  administer  relief.  (Jne  of  the  winters  he 
stayed  in  London  he  lodged  at  the  house  of  his  good  friend,  Mr. 
Whitefield,  adjoining  the  Tabernacle,  in  Moorfields.  "  I  took 
up  my  abode  (says  ne),  not  at  my  brother's  after  the  flesh,  but 
with  the  brother  of  my  heart"  By  means  of  Lady  Hunting- 
don he  soon  became  acquainted  with  many  pious  and  excellent 
characters  iq  London,  particularly  Lady  Gertrude  Hotham, 
Lady  Chesterfield,  the  Countess  Delitz,  and  Lady  Fanny  Shir- 
ley, at  whose  house  he  occasionally  expounded  to  very  po- 
lite and  attentive  auditories.  With  the  latter  he  maintained 
a  very  intimate  correspondence  for  several  years,  which  was 

fublished  after  her  death  by  her  executors.  It  was  to  Lady 
anny  that  he  dedicated  his  celebrated  work,  "  Theron  and 
Aspasio,''  which  she  was  the  means  of  introducing  to  the 
notice  of  Royalty.    I  should  never  have  been  known  to  such 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  161 

grand  personages  (says  he)  if  you  had  not  condescended  to  in- 
troduce me.  My  name  had  never  been  heard  by  a  royal  ear, 
if  it  had  not  received  some  credit  by  your  Ladyship's  notice." 
His  "  Observations  on  Lord  Bolingbroke's  work  *  On  the  Use 
and  Study  of  History/  "  were  likewise  addressed  to  her  Ladyship. 
Mr.  Hervey  had  also  frequent  interviews  with  Miss  Hotham, 
and  on  one  occasion  administered  the  sacrament  at  Lady  Ger- 
trude's before  Mr.  Whitefield's  return  from  Portsmouth.  Of 
his  last  interview  he  has  preserved  a  short  notice  in  his  letter  to 
Lady  Huntingdon : — 

'*  I  had  the  pleasure  of  perusing  your  Ladyship's  letter  to  Mr.  White- 
field,  and  return  my  grateful  acknowledgments  for  your  condescension 
in  inquiring  afler  me.  'Mv  kind  patroness,  Lady  Chesterfield,  and 
many  honourable  persons  whose  names  I  trust  are  written  in  the  Book 
of  Life,  arc  very  desirous  for  your  Ladyship's  return  to  the  great  city. 
I  have  lately  expounded,  and  administered  the  ordinance  at  good  Lady 
Gertrude  Hotham's.  Her  daughter  is  ripening  fast  for  glory.  I  had 
but  little  conversation  with  her,  for  she  is  too  weak  to  endure  much 
fatigue.  When  speaking  of  God's  stupendous  love,  in  giving  his  only 
Son  for  our  salvation,  and  of  our  interest  in  the  all-sufficient  propitia- 
tion of  his  death,  I  quoted  these  portions  of  Scripture — He  came  into 
the  world  to  save  sinners — He  poured  out  his  soul  for  transgressors. 
^  Yes,  (said  Miss  Hotham,  who  had  been  listening  with  singular  atten- 
tion). He  died,  the  just  for  the  unjust — he  suffered  death  upon  the  cross, 
that  we  might  reign  with  him  in  glory.'  On  a  subsequent  visit  I  found 
her  much  lUtercd  for  the  worse,  as  respected  her  bodily  health.  Mr. 
Whiteficld  had  been  to  see  her  the  preceding  day,  and  has  since  gone 
to  erect  the  joyful  standard  at  Portsmouth.  Blessed  be  God,  she  en- 
joyed much  peace  and  tranquillity  of  mind,  and  a  firm  persuasion  that 
God  was  her  reconciled  Father,  and  the  blessed  Redeemer  her  all- 
sufiicient  portion.  I  expect  to  hear  every  day  of  her  abundant  entrance 
into  the  joy  of  her  Lord.  Good  Lady  Gertrude,  and  all  her  noble 
relatives  and  friends,  are  wonderfully  supported  in  this  trying  affair. 
May  the  inestimably  precious  Jesus  refresh  and  uphold  them  with  the 
choicest  cordials  of  his  glorious  Gospel !  and  may  his  name  be  very 
precious  to  them !" 

As  often  as  his  health  permitted  he  attended  the  ministry  of 
Mr.  Whitefield  and  his  faithful  associates,  at  the  Tabernacle ;  he 
says  of  him : — 

**  On  Sunday,  he  preached  with  his  usual  fervour,  and  administered 
the  sacrament  to  a  great  number  of  very  serious  communicants.  He 
delights  in  the  work  of  the  ministry,  and  embraces  every  opportunity 
of  preachins  the  everlasting  Gospel.  He  is,  indeed,  in  labours  more 
abundant.  What  a  pattern  of  zeal  and  ministerial  fidelity  is  our  excel- 
lent friend !  and  Goa  rewards  him  with  joy  unspeakable.  God  also 
fulfils  to  him  in  a  remarkable  manner,  his  eracious  promise,  ^  Them 
that  honour  me,  I  will  honour.'    This  day  he  was  most  respectfolly 

VOL,  I,— M 


109  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

entertained  at  the  houses  of  two  nohlemen.  What  a  most  exalted 
satisfaction  most  he  enjoy,  in  attending  these  great  personages,  not  to 
cringe  for  favour,  hut  to  lay  upon  them  an  everlasting  ohligation,  not  to 
ask  their  interest  at  court,  hut  to  be  the  muuster  of  their  reconciliation 
to  the  King  of  kings." 

Again  :— 

^  Yesterday,  our  indefatigable  friend  renewed  his  labour  of  love. 
He  preached  to  a  crowded  audience,  and  yet  multitudes  went  away  for 
want  of  room.  In  the  midst  of  this  audience  was  a  clergyman  in  his 
canonical  dress — a  stranger ;  his  name  I  could  not  learn ;  he  behaved 
with  exemplary  seriousness,  and  expressed  much  satisfaction." 

While  in  the  o^etropolis  he  was  visited  by  Dr.  Gill,  Dr.  Gif- 
ford,  and  other  ministers  of  eminence,  both  in  the  Established 
Church  and  amongst  the  Dissenters,  and  declares  it  was  his 
own  fault  if  he  reaped  not  much  advantage  by  their  conversation. 
With  Mr.  Cennick,  Mr.  Cudworth,  and  other  devoted  men  who 
laboured  at  that  period  in  the  Tabernacle  connexion,  he  formed 
a  very  intimate  triendship.  There,  also,  for  the  first  time,  be 
heard  Mr.  Romaine,  to  wnom  he  was  introduced  at  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon's particular  request  To  Lady  Fanny  Shirley  he  gives 
an  account  of  Mr.  Romaine's  style  and  manner  of  preaching, 
and  wishes  much  success  to  him  in  explaining  the  Gospel  to  his 
thronged  auditors.  Mr.  Romaine  often  visited  him  at  the  Ta- 
bernacle-house, and  occasionally  accompanied  bim  to  hear  Mr. 
Whitefield.  On  one  occasion  Mr.  Wesley  and  Mr.  Romaine 
breakfiasted  with  Mr.  Whitefield.  Besides  Mr.  JHervey,  there 
were  present  Dr.  Gifford,  Dr.  Gill,  Mr.  Cudworth,  and  Mr. 
Cennick.  Mr.  Romaine  led  the  doctrinal  part  of  the  service, 
and  Dr.  Gill  addressed  a  short  exhortation  to  his  brethren  in 
the  ministry.  At  other  seasons  these  excellent  men  often  met 
at  the  residence  of  the  Countess  Delitz,  Lady  Gertrude  Hotham, 
and  Lady  Fanny  Shirley,  where  they  proclaimed  the  truth  of 
the  Gospel  to  polite  and  fashionable  auditors,  and  were  enriched 
with  spods — spoils  won  from  the  kingdom  of  darkness,  and  con- 
secrated to  the  Captain  of  our  salvation. 


SELIKA,  COUVTESS   OF  HUNTINODON.  18$ 


CHAPTER  X. 

Mr.  Whltefield  at  Ashby — Mr.  Moses  Browne — Mr.  Martin  Madan — Lady 
FVances  Hastings — Dr.  Stonhouse — Mr.  Hartley— .Death  of  the  Prince  of 
Wales^.  Anecdote — Lady  Charlotte  Edwin — Dr.  Ayscough — Lord  Ly  ttleton 
— De«th  of  Sir 'George  Ly  ttleton — Death  of  Lord  Bolingbroke— -Dr.  Tirapp 

'^Dr,  Church — Anecdotes^Lady  Liucborough-«Mr.  Mallet — Mr.  Pope. 

Early  in  the  month  of  October  Lady  Huntingdon  had  the 
pleasure  of  another  visit  from  Mr.  Wbitefield,  who  had  been 
again  ranging  about,  as  he  expresses  it,  to  see  who  would  believe 
the  Gospel  report.  **  I  am  now  (says  he)  at  Lady  Huntingdon's 
house,  with  four  other  cler^men,  who  I  believe  love  and  preach 
Christ  in  sincerity."  Whilst  he  remained  at  Ashby-place  the 
sacrament  was  administered  every  morning  by  some  ox  the  cler- 
^men  who  were  with  her  Ladyship ;  and  in  the  evening  Mr. 
Whitefield  preached. 

"  It  was  a  time  of  refresbinz  from  the  presence  of  our  God  C  writes 
her  Ladyship  to  Lady  Fanny  Shirley)  :  several  of  our  little  circle  have 
been  wonderfully  filled  with  the  love  of  God,  and  have  had  joy  un- 
speakable and  full  of  glory.  Lady  Frances  is  rejoicing  in  hope  of  tlie 
glory  of  God.  It  is  impossible  to  conceive  a  more  real  happiness  than  - 
sbo  enjoys.  Deur  Mr.  Whitefield's  sermons  and  exhortations  were 
dose,  searching,  experimental,  awful,  and  awakening.  Surely  God  wis 
with  him — he  appeared  to  speak  of  spiritual  and  divine  things  as  awful 
realities.  Many  of  us  could  witness  to  the  truth  of  what  he  uttered^ 
by  finding  that  which  our  hearts  discovered  and  read  to  us.  His  dis- 
courses in  the  neighbouring  churches  were  attended  with  power  from  on 
high,  and  the  kingdom  of  darkness  trembled  before  the  Gospel  of  Christ.'' 

Mr.  Whitefield,  in  a  letter  to  the  Countess  Delitz,  says : — 

<<  Good  Lady  Huntingdon  goes  on  acting  the  port  of  a  mother  in 
Israd  more  and  more.  For  a  day  or  two  she  has  had  five  clergymen 
under  her  roof,  which  mokes  her  Ladyship  look  like  a  ^ood  archbishop, 
with  his  chaplains  around  him.  Her  house  is  a  Bethel :  to  us  in  (ho 
ministry  it  looks  like  a  collie.  We  have  the  sacrament  every  morn- 
ing, heavenly  conversation  all  day,  and  preach  at  night.  This  is  to  live 
at  Court  indeed  !  Last  nigbt  I  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  a  little  flock 
that  seemed  to  be  awakened  by  the  grace  of  God ;  so  that  out  of  un- 
grateful Ashby  I  trust  there  will  be  raised  up  many  children  unto 
Abraham.  Your  Ladyship  and  the  other  elect  ladies  arc  never  for- 
gotten by  OS.  I  would  wnte  to  good  Lady  Fanny,  but  I  bear  she  is 
oat  of  town.'' 
M  2 


l64  THE  LIFE  ANI5  TIMES  OF 

To  Lady  Gertrude  Hotham  he  writes : — 

"  Ashby,  October  11,  1750. 
"  Honoured  Madam, — It  is  witli  great  pleasure  that  I  have  heard 
from  good  Lady  Huntingdon  of  your  Ladyship's  beinc  so  supported 
under  your  late  bereavement,  ^Lady  Gertrude  had  just  lost  her  daugh- 
ter] and  of  the  good  impressions  made  on  surviving  relatives  by  it. 
Thus  the  Redeemer  delights  to  magnify  his  strength  in  his  people's 
weakness,  and  causes  the  death  of  one  to  bo  the  life,  as  it  were,  the 
resurrection  of  another.  0^  what  amazing  mysteries  will  be  unfolded, 
when  each  link  in  the  golden  chain  of  Providence  and  grace  shall  be 
seen  and  scanned  by  beatified  spirits  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven  I  There 
all  will  appear  symmetry  and  harmony ;  and  even  the  most  intricate, 
and  seemingly  most  contrary  dispensations^  will  be  evidenced  to  be  the 
result  of  infinite  and  consummate  wisdom,  power,  and  love.  Above 
all,  there  the  believer  will  see  the  infinite  depths  of  that  mystery  of 
godliness, '  God  manifest  in  the  fiesh,'  and  join  with  that  blessed  cnoir 
who^  with  a  restless  unweariness,  are  ever  singing  the  song  of  Moses 
and  the  Lamb.  May  your  Ladyship  live  to  see  all  your  surviving 
children  taught  and  bom  of  God  !  I  must  not  enlarcc — neither  have  I 
room  to  acquaint  your  Ladyship  how  that  mirror  of  piety,  good  Lady 
Huntingdon,  adorns  the  gospel  of  her  Lord  in  all  things.  I  wrote 
some  particulars  of  our  situation  to  the  good  Countess." 

Lady  Huntingdon  used  all  her  interest  in  endeavouring  to 
extend  the  knowledge  of  the  doctrine  of  her  cruci&ed  Lord ; 
and  she  appears  to  have  been  actively  engaged  about  this  time 
in  procuring  ordination  for  Mr.  Moses  Browne,  and  the  living 
of  Ashby  for  Mr.  Hervey,  who  was  then  officiating  as  curate  to 
his  father,  in  the  charge  of  CoUingtree ;  but  upon  his  demise, 
in  1752,  Mr.  Hervey  succeeded  to  the  living  of  Weston  Favell. 
From  what  cause  Lady  Huntingdon  did  not  succeed  in  placing 
Mr.  Hervey  at  Ashby,  it  is  difficult  at  this  distance  of  time  to 
ascertain,  as  no  further  mention  is  made  of  the  affair  in  the 
correspondence  or  papers  of  her  Ladyship  or  Mr.  Whitefield. 

Mr.  Moses  Browne,  afterwards  well  known  as  Vicar  of  Olney, 
and  Chaplain  of  Morden  College,  Blackheath,  was  at  this  time 
very  desirous  of  procuring  ordination,  but  many  obstacles  opposed 
his  wishes.  He  had  never  been  at  either  of  the  Universities ; 
he  had  a  large  family,  and  his  circumstances  were  very  contracted. 
He  had,  among  his  other  talents,  a  taste  for  poetry,  and  some 
of  his  early  productions  are  remarkably  easy  and  elegant.  On 
the  institution  of  the  GentlemarCs  Magazine^  about  the  year 
1730,  he  became  a  constant  contributor  to  it,  and  obtained  some 
of  the  prizes  offered  by  Mr.  Cave  for  the  best  poems.* 

*  A  marked  testimony  to  the  poetic  talents  of  Dr.  Watts,  was  shown 
him  by  this  gentleman,  who,  in  order  to  excite  emulation,  and  procure  for 
his  work  productions  of  real  genius,  proposed  to  give  certain  rewards  to  his 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  166 

By  the  kindness  of  Dr.  Watts,  Mr.  Browne  was  introduced  to 
the  notice  of  Lady  Huntingdon  and  Lady  Hertford,  at  whose 
house  he  met  most  of  the  poets  and  eminent  literary  characters 
of  that  time.  During  a  severe  illness,  which  threatened  his  life, 
he  was  penetrated  with  a  deep  sense  of  the  divine  reality  and 
importance  of  religion ;  but  his  rage  for  dancing  and  theatrical 
amusements  frequently  obliterated,  for  a  season,  those  sacred 
impressions.  Whilst  in  this  state  he  was  providentially  led  to 
attend  the  preaching  of  the  first  Methodists,  under  whose  power^ 
ful  and  awakening  preaching  he  began  to  view  the  things  which 
concerned  his  salvation  in  a  clearer  light ;  and  from  that  time  his 
sentiments  and  conduct  appeared  to  have  undergone  a  complete 
revolution. 

Just  at  this  period,  the  Rev.  Martin  Madan,  who  was  originally 
bred  to  the  study  of  the  law,  changed,  by  the  advice  of  his  friends, 
Lady  Huntingdon,  Mr.  Jones  of  St.  Saviour's,  Mr.  Romaine, 
and  others,  the  abstruse  practice  of  the  bar  for  the  elocution  of 
the  pulpit.  Mr.  Madan,  founder  and  first  chaplain  of  the  Lock 
Hospital,  near  Hyde  Park-corner,  afterwards  so  celebrated  for 
his  writings  and  as  a  popular  preacher  in  the  chapels  of  I^dy 
Huntingdon,  was  the  eldest  son  of  Colonel  Madan,  of  the  Guards, 
by  his  wife  Judith,  daughter  of  Judge  Cowper,  the  brother  of 
the  Lord  Chancellor.  Like  many  otners,  his  conversion  arose 
from  circumstances  apparently  trivial.  The  preaching  of  the 
first  Methodists  had  excited  universal  attention,  and  roused 
many  from  the  torpor  of  indifference.  Mr.  Madan,  being  in 
company  one  evening  with  some  of  his  gay  companions  at  a 
coffee-house,  was  requested  by  them  to  go  and  hear  Mr.  Wesley, 
who,  they  were  told,  was  to  preach  in  the  neighbourhood ;  and 
then  to  return  and  exhibit  his  manner  and  discourse  for  their 
entertainment.  He  went  with  that  intention,  and  just  as  he 
entered  the  place,  Mr.  Wesley  named  as  his  text,  "  Prepare  to 
meet  thy  GodT  with  a  solemnity  of  accent  which  struck  him, 
and  which  inspired  a  seriousness  that  increased  as  the  good  man 
proceeded  in  exhorting  his  hearers  to  repentance.    He  returned 

poetical  correspondents,  and  wrote  to  the  Doctor,  requesting  him  to  decide 
upon  their  respective  merits.  His  natural  modesty  revolted  at  the  idea  of 
becoming  a  literarv  judge ;  but  on  being  pressed,  he  gave  his  opinion  with  so 
much  candour  ana  ludicious  discrimination,  that  idl  parties  expressed  their 
gratitude,  and  cheerfully  acquiesced  in  his  decision.  It  was  this  circumstance 
which  first  introduced  Mr.  Browne  to  the  notice  of  Dr.  Watts,  who,  during  the 
remainder  of  his  life,  took  a  kind  and  almost  parental  interest  in  all  his  concerns. 
The  extensive  learning  and  poetical  abilities,  the  exemplary  piety,  the  active 
benevolence  and  steady  friendship  of  that  excellent  man  and  bright  ornament 
of  the  Christian  Church,  were  not  less  the  subjects  of  delightful  conversation 
in  the  privacy  of  Mr.  Browne's  life,  than  they  have  been  the  theme  of  just 
eulogium  to  an  impartial  posterity. 


IM  TAT  Lift  AND  TtM£8  OF 

to  the  coflee-room,  and  was  asked  by  his  acquaintance  <<  if  he 
had  taken  off  the  old  Methodist  ?"  To  which  he  answered,  "  No, 
gentlemen^  hut  he  has  taken  me  off^  From  that  time  he  with- 
drew from  their  company  altogether,  and  in  future  associated 
with  persons  of  a  different  stamp.  His  first  friend  and  intimate 
in  the  religious  world  was  Lady  Huntingdon,  who  had  been  well 
acquainted  with  his  mother-in-law,  Lady  Hale,  relict  of  Sir 
Bernard  Hale,  Chief  Baron  of  the  Exchequer  in  Ireland,  the 
friend  and  contemporary  of  her  Ladyship's  grandfather,  -Sir 
Richard  Levinffe,  Lord  Chief  Justice  of  the  Common  Pleas : 
Lady  Huntingdon's  cousin^  Sir  Edward  Dering,  Baft.,  grandson 
of  Lady  Anne  Shirley,  afterwards  married  a  niece  of  Mr.  Madan's, 
daughter  of  William  Hale,  Esq.,  of  King's  Walden,  and  lister 
to  Mrs.  StiUingfieet,  of  West  Bromwich. 

Possessing  a  thorough  knowledge  of  the  Scriptures  in  the 
original  languages,  and  having  embraced  those  eyangelical 
▼lews  of  Gospel  truth,  of  which  he  afterwards  was  so  zealous  a 
defender,  Mr.  Madan  was  desirous  of  diffusing  amongst  his 
fellow-men  the  savour  of  that  name  which  he  loved.  Mastei^ 
of  an  independent  fortune,  he  entered  the  ministry  without 
any  mercenary  views:  and  though  his  brother,  Dr.  Spencer 
Madan,  was  successively  bishop  of  Bristol  and  Peterborough,  he 
never  accepted  any  benefice  or  emolument  in  the  Church.  In 
consequence  of  his  religious  sentiments,  and  the  open  avowal 
be  teade  of  the  faith  once  delivered  to  the  saints,  he  experienced 
some  difficulty  in  obtaining  orders  ;  but,  through  the  perseve- 
i'ance  and  interest  of  Lady  Huntingdon  and  some  others,  he 
was  at  length  successful.  Alluding  to  this  circumstance,  Mr. 
Whitefield  says : — 

^\  am  glad  Mr.  Madan  is  ordained,  and  hope  Mr.  Browne  will  be 
the  next.  )^'^  tlie  Bishop's  letter  to  him,  I  find  your  Ladyship  has 
lusted  in  the  tdfair  like  yourself.  Your  L&dyship  shall  have  a  copy  of 
it,  and  you  will  then  see  how  matters  go  on.  Mr.  Browne  is  much  for 
embanking  in  Christ's  Muse,  and  if  the  Duchess  would  but  help  him  at 
this  juncture  he  might  be  a  useful  and  happy  man.  Both  he  and  Mr. 
Hervey  have  the  most  grateful  sense  of  your  Ladyship's  great  kind- 
ness. The  latter,  I  believe,  intends  to  winter  with  me  in  London.  If 
possible,  I  wiU  prevail  on  Mr.  Hardey  to  come  and  pay  him  a  viiit.** 

Soon  after  his  ordination,  Mr.  Madan  was  called  to  preach 
his  first  sermon  in  the  church  of  All-hallows,  Lombard-street. 
I'he  lawyer  turning  divine  was  novel — curiosity  prevailed  among 
the  million  of  the  metropolis.  The  manly  eloquence  of  the 
preacher  drew  general  attention  and  excited  applause.  The 
poor  heard  the  Gospel  with  gladness,  and  the  nch  were  not 
sent  empty  away.    Many  were  nUed  wi^  woodett     The  croaking 


SELIKA,  C0UKTE8S  OF  HUNTIN<!DON.  167 

cry  of  prejudice  was  silenced — ^her  raven  voice  sunk  amidst  the 
loud  acclaims  of  the  friends  of  religion,  who  heard  the  doctrines 
of  the  Reformation  nobly  defended  bv  an  able  advocate,  whose 
knowledge  was  equal  to  his  zeal.  Like  Boanei^es,  a  son  of 
thunder,  he  proclaimed  the  law  from  the  flaming  mountain  ; 
and  from  the  summit  of  Zion*s  hill  he  appeared  a  Barnabas,  a  son 
of  consolation.  Mr.  Madan  was  rather  tall  in  stature,  and  of  a 
robust  constitution :  his  countenance  was  majestic,  open,  and 
engaging,  and  his  looks  commanding  veneration ;  his  delivery 
is  said  to  have  been  peculiarly  graceml.  He  preached  without 
notes ;  his  voice  was  musical,  well  modulated,  full  and  power- 
ful ;  his  language  plain,  nervous,  pleasing,  and  memorable  ; 
and  his  arguments  strong,  bold,  rational,  and  conclusive :  hb 
doctrines  were  drawn  from  the  sacred  fountain :  he  was  mi^ty 
in  the  Scriptures — a  workman  that  needed  not  be  ashamed  of 
his  labours,  rightly  dividing  the  word  of  truth. 

The  success  attending  her  Ladyship's  applications  in  behalf 
of  Mr.  Madan,  induced  ner  to  redouble  her  efforts  to  serve  Mr. 
Browne : — 

^  I  have  had  a  polite  refusal  (nys  Lady  Huntingdon)  from  the 
Bishop  of  Winchester,*  but  have  nopes  that  my  letter  to  ma  Lordahip 
of  Worcester  wil  prove  more  favourable.  The  testimoniab}  siinied  by 
Hervey,  Hartley,  and  Baddelley,  all  beneficed  clergymen^  men  of  known 
integrity  and  reputation,  remain  in  the  Bishop's  huids.  Hy  dear  Lady 
Chesterfield  has  been  very  kind,  and  takes  a  great  interest  in  Mr, 
Browne's  case.  The  Countess  Delitz  has  sent  me  ten  guineas  for  him, 
I  have  written  to  Ladv  Fanny,  and  hope  her  implication  to  the  Duchess 
will  be  successfuLt  My  Lord  Bath  has  promised  me  his  suj^rt,  and 
I  doubt  not  but  he  will  be  generous  likewise.  Let  the  cry  of  everv 
heart  be  addressed  to  Him  who  has  all  hearts  at  his  diroosal,  and  will 
do  whatsoever  seemeih  him  eood  in  this  as  in  every  other  case.  Onr 
business  is  to  snread  it  before  him  in  prayer — the  result  will  be  aooording 
to  his  most  rignteons  wilL* 

All  these  efforts  were  vain — 

^^  Poor  Mr.  Browne  (says  Mr.  Whitefield,  in  a  letter  to  Lady  Fanny 

*  Dr.  Benjamin  Hotdley,  the  celebrated  prelate  who  ga?e  rise  to  the  Bangorian 
controverBT. 

f  Lady  Famif  was  Tenr  active  in  her  endearonci  to  procure  peeimiary  — ia 
ance  for  Mr.  Browne.  She  had  applied  to  the  Ducheas  of  Somenet  uid  Dr. 
Stephen  Hales,  ph  jsidan  to  the  prince  of  Wales,  who,  at  her  request,  had  pre* 
sented  Mr.  Herny^  works  to  die  Princess,  by  whom  they  were  recdred  m  i^ 
▼ery  obUgi^g;  manner.  Dr.  Hales  was  a  philoaopher  and  divine,  and  is  said  to 
hare  been  a  man  of  fntil  science,  humility  and  piety.  He  was  successirdy 
presented  to  the  Unngs  of  Teddington,  Middleseii ;  Poiiock,  Somersetshire ; 
and  Farringdon,  in  Hampshire.  After  the  death  of  the  Prince  of  Wales,  the 
Princess  Downgte  made  him  deck  of  herdosec,  and  after  Ui  dMld^  hi  1761 , 
erected  a  monument  to  his  wanmryin  Wifinitwr  AUiay* 


1Q8  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

SUrley,)  is  much  obliged  to  you  for  speakiug  in  his  behalf.    He  hap- 

E3ned  to  be  with  me  when  your  letter  came.  The  reception  your 
adyship's  kind  motion  met  with^  convinces  me  more  and  more  that 
*  Be  ye  wanned  and  be  ye  filled/  without  giving  anything  to  be  warmed 
or  filled  with,  is  the  farthest  that  most  professors  go.  Words  are  cheap, 
and  cost  nothing ;  and,  therefore,  many  can  say  ^  they  pity,'  and  that 
extremely  too,  when  at  the  same  time  their  practice  shows  it  is  only  a 
verbal,  and  not  a  real  compassion." 

At  length,  however,  through  the  interest  of  the  Hon.  Welbore 
Ellis,*  Lady  Huntingdon  succeeded  in  obtaining  ordination 
for  Mr.  Browne,  who  soon  after  commenced  his  ministry  as 
curate  to  Mr.  Hervey,  at  Collingtree.  That  inconceivably 
amiable,  humble  man,  had  frequently  urged  him  to  enter  the 
ministry ;  and,  in  one  of  his  letters  to  him,  says : — 

^  As  to  your  entering  into  holy  orders,  I  have  no  manner  of  doubt ; 
by  all  means  do  it.  It  is  what  1  have  been  pra3dng  for  these  several 
years ;  it  is  what  all  the  disciples  of  Christ  are  directed  to  implore  at 
the  Lord's  hands,  that  he  would  send  many  such  labourers  mto  his 
vineyard.  As  God  has  inclined  your  heart  to  the  work — as  he  has 
given  you  so  clear  a  knowledge  of  the  truth  as  it  is  in  Jesus,  and  stirred 
you  up  to  be  zealous  for  the  interests  of  a  bleeding  Saviour ;  I  assure 
you  if  the]  king  would  make  me  a  bishop,  one  of  the  first  acts  of  my 
episcopal  office  should  be  to  ordain  the  author  of  '  Sunday  Thoughts.' 
I  hope  the  Lord  will  guide  you  by  his  spirit,  and  commission  you  to 
feed  his  flock,  and  make  you  a  chosen  instrument  of  bringing  many 
sinners  to  Christ — ^many  sons  to  glory." 

Immediately  on  coming  to  Collingtree,  Mr.  Browne  was  invited 
to  Ashby-place,  and  some  of  his  first  and  most  effective  discourses 
were  delivered  amongst  the  people  there.  When  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon removed  to  London,  he  occasionally  visited  the  metro- 
polis, and  at  her  Ladyship's  house  united  with  that  great  apostle 
of  the  Lord,  Mr.  Whitefield,  in  preaching  the  unsearchable 
riches  of  Christ  to  the  polite  and  fashionable.  He  likewise 
assisted  Mr.  Madan  at  the  Lock,  and  Mr.  Jones  at  St.  Saviour's, 
and  the  Great  Shepherd  and  Bishop  of  souls  bore  testimony  to 
the  word  of  his  servant,  and  gave  him  many  seals  to  his  ministry. 

Early  in  the  month  of  December  Lady  Huntingdon  was 
again  alarmingly  indisposed.  Mr.  Whitefield  also  was  danger- 
ously ill  at  the  same  time  in  London.  Dr.  Doddridge  appears  to 
have  been  extremely  apprehensive  as  to  her  Ladyship's  state  of 
health,  and  in  a  letter  to  his  correspondent,  the  Rev.  Mr.  Wood, 
of  Norwich,  dated  December  4,  says — "  Dear  Lady  Huntingdon 
is  in  a  very  declining  way.     Pray  devoutly  for  ner  important 

^  Then  one  of  the  Lords  of  the  Admiralty.  He  was  nephew  of  Lady  Ger- 
trude Hotham,  and  afterwards  became  liord  Mendip. 


SELINAy  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTIKQDON.  169 

life."  On  the  22nd  of  the  same  month  he  again  mentions  her 
Ladyship — "  I  am  printing  the  funeral  sermon  for  my  excellent 
friend  at  St.  Alban's.*  Lady  Huntingdon  continues  very  ill.  I 
fear  we  shall  soon  lose  her  too.  But  the  Lord  liveth,  and  blessed 
be  our  rock."  At  the  close  of  a  letter  from  Mr.  Hervey  to  the 
Rev.  Moses  Browne,  dated  December  22,  he  inquires — "  What 
account  can  you  give  of  Lady  Huntingdon's  health  ?  Never, 
never  will  the  physician's  skill  be  employed  for  the  lengthening 
a  more  valuable  life.  May  Almignty  goodness  bless  those 
prescriptions,  and  command  her  constitution  and  our  zeal  to 
flourish." 

The  beginning  of  the  year  1751  Lady  Huntingdon's  health 
declined  so  rapidly  that  Mr.  Whitefield  was  sent  for  express.  "  I 
rode  post  to  Ashby  (says  he)  not  knowing  whether  I  should  see 
good  Lady  Huntingdon  alive.  Blessed  be  God,  she  is  some- 
what better,  and  I  trust  will  not  yet  die,  but  live,  and  abound 
more  and  more  in  the  work  of  the  Lord.  Entreat  all  our  friends 
to  pray  for  her.  Indeed  she  is  worthy."  Lady  Selina  was  slowly 
recovering  from  a  fever,  and  Lady  Frances  had  died  suddenly  a 
few  hours  before  Mr.  Whitefield  reached  Ashby.  She  was  a 
retired  character,  lived  silently,  and  was  removed  to  that 

— — "  land  of  pure  delight, 
Where  saints  immortal  reign,** 

without  a  sigh  or  a  struggle.  Her  Ladyship  was  born  at  Don- 
nington  Park,  January  ^  1694,  and  died  unmarried,  January  23, 
175Lf  Her  humility,  meekness,  sincerity,  and  heavenly-mind- 
edness  were  conspicuous  in  all  her  deportment,  and»rendered  her 
much  esteemed  and  respected  by  all  who  had  the  happiness  of 
her  acquaintance.     In  her  intercourse  with  society,:):  she  was 

•  The  Rev.  Dr.  Samuel  Clark,  compiler  of  the  **  Promises,"  to  whom  Dr. 
Doddridge  was  under  very  particular  obligations  in  the  course  of  his  educational 
studies. 

f  She  was  the  third  daughter  of  Theophilus,  seventh  Earl  of  Huntingdon, 
by  his  (second)  marriage  with  Frances,  oaughter  of  Francis  Leveson  Fowler, 
of  Hamage  Grange,  in  the  county  of  Salop,  Esq.,  and  relict  of  Thomas,  sixth 
Viscount  Kilmorey.  There  was  a  double  connexion  between  those  families; 
Lord  Kilmorey,  the  nephew  of  Lady  Frances  Hastings,  having  married  Lady 
Mary  Shirley,  tlie  youngest  sister  of  Lad^  Huntingdon. 

\  Amongst  the  early  friends  and  associates  of  the  Ladies  Hastings  were  the 
daughters  of  the  Marquis  of  Lothian,  llieir  mother  was  a  Campbell,  sister  to 
the  first  Duke  of  Argvle.  Lady  Mar^  Kerr,  the  youngest  daughter,  married 
Alei^der  Hamilton,  Esq.,  of  BaUincneff,  Member  of  Parliament  for  the  county 
of  Linlith^w,  Postmaster- General  of  Scotland,  and  representative  of  the  family 
of  Innerwick.  Lady  Mary*s  intimacy  with  the  Ladies  Hastings  soon  brought 
her  into  contact  with  Mr.  MThitefield  and  the  Messrs.  Wesley,  and  under  the 

S reaching  of  those  tnen  of  God  she  was  led  to  embrace  the  truth  as  it  is  in 
esus.  For  many  years  she  was  the  intimate  friend  and  correspondent  of  Mr. 
Whitefield ;  and  in  the  coUection  of  letters  published  by  his  executors,  several 
will  be  found  addremed  to  Lady  Mary  HamutoD,  whoee  mothefi  we  hare  it  on 


170  TH8  LIFE  AKO  TIMES  OP 

a  pattern  to  all,  manifesting  an  uniform  piety,  a  deadness  to  the 
world,  and  a  conversation  tnat  iii  all  things  adorned  the  doctrine 
of  our  Saviour.  She  was  universally  lamented  by  the  poor  in 
the  neighbourhood,  of  whom  a  multitude  attended  her  funeral. 
Before  the  body  was  removed,  Mr.  White6eld  gave  a  solemn 
exhortation;  and  after  her  Ladyship's  remains  were  interred 
amongst  those  of  her  ancestors,  he  addressed  an  attentive  and 
weeping  multitude,  preaching  from  the  words,  "  Blessed  are 
the  dead  which  die  in  the  Lord,  from  henceforth ;  yea,  saith 
the  Spirit,  that  they  may  rest  from  their  labours,  and  their  works 
do  follow  them." 

The  following  letter  from  Mr.  Whitefield  to  Lady  Mary 
Hamilton  contains  some  interesting  particulars  of  the  death  of 
Lady  Frances : — 

*'  Honoured  Madam, — Last  Monday  evenings  through  the  goodness 
of  an  ever-blessed  Redeemer,  I  got  safe  to  Ashby,  where  I  found  eood 
Lady  Huntingdon  very  sick,  though  I  trust  not  unto  death.     All  ad- 
vise her  Ladyship  to  take  a  journey  to  Bristol,  for  the  benefit  of  the 
waters,  which  her  Ladyship  seems  determined  to  do.     The  death  of 
Lady  Frances  has  not  affected  her  so  as  to  hurt  her.    She  rejoices  at 
the  thought  of  her  sister's  beins;  so  quickly  translated  out  of  this  house 
of  bondage  into  the  glorious  nberty  of  ihe  sons  of  God.     Her  death 
was  a  translation  indeed !     Her  Laayship  died  without  a  groan.    She 
seemed  as  it  were  to  smile  at  death ;  and  may  be  said,  I  trust  truly,  to 
fall  asleep  in  Jesus.     Ere  long,  she  and  all  that  sleep  in  Jesus  shall 
come  with  him.     Almost  all  have  been  ill  in  their  turns.     Lady  Selina 
has  had  a  fever,  but  is  better.    Lady  Betty  is  more  affected  than  ever 
I  saw  her.     Lady  Anne  bears  up  pretty  well :  but  Miss  Wheeler  is 
inconsolable.     It  is  a  house  of  moumine :  that  is  better  than  a  house 
of  feasting.     The  corpse  is  to  be  interred  on  Friday  evening.     May  all 
that  follow  it  look  and  learn  !     I  mean,  learn  to  live  and  learn  to  die. 
This  is  a  lesson  which  you  and  yours,  honoured  Madam,  I  trust,  are 
learning  every  day.     We  had  need  be  careful  to  get  our  lesson  perfect, 
since  wc  know  not  when  the  Son  of  Man  will  come,  whether  at  evening, 
cock-crowin£,  or  in  the  morning.     To  be  ready  at  that  hour,  is  all  in 
all.     Good  Lady  Huntingdon  sends  her  sincerest  compliments.     If 
any  thing  extraordinary  happens  before  my  return,  your  Ladyship  shall 
hear  again  from,  honourea  Madam,  your  Ladyship's  most  autiful, 
obliged,  and  ready  servant  for  Christ's  sake. 

«*  O.  W." 

Mrs.  Whitefield's  illness  obliging  her  husband  to  return  to 
London,  he  wrote  to  Dr.  Stonhouse,  the  day  before  his  depar- 

Mr.  Whitefield*8  authority,  set  her  the  example  of  piety;  she  died  in  1740. 
The  Marquis  of  Lothian,  ihe  brother  of  Lady  Mary,  was  also  a  correspondent 
of  Mr.  Whitefield,  and,  as  we  have  before  stated  (see  page  91),  was  one  of  his 
hearers  at  the  bouse  of  Ltdy  Huntingdon.  Lady  Mary  died  Nov.  17»  1708, 
leaving  no  surviviag  issue. 


SELINAy  COUNTESS  OF  RVKHMDOK.  171 

lure,  UT^ng  him  tcuse  his  influence  with  Mr.  Hartley  to  come 
without  delay  to  Ashby ;  but  he  being  then  unable  to  leave  his 
parish,  Dr.  Stonhouse  went  to  Ashby,  where  he  remained  till 
her  Ladyship  was  sufficiently  recovered  to  remove  to  Bristol  Hot 
Wells,  whithec  she  went  in  the  beginning  of  March.  This  was 
an  important  circumstance  for  the  Doctor,  who  seemed  halting 
between  two  opinions,  notwithstanding  the  searching  letters  ard 
eloquently  urgent  remonstrances  of  Mr.Whitefield.  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon says,  in  a  letter,  written  just  before  leaving  Asht^y : — 

'^  The  dear  and  excellent  Dr.  Doddridge  and  Dr.  Stonhouse  have 
been  to  sco  me.  I  long  to  see  tlie  latter  embark  more  boldly  in  the 
cause  of  Christ,  but  he  has  an  unaccountable  dread  of  the  opinion  of 
the  worlds  and  is  fearful  of  being  called  a  Methodist  We  spoke 
most  faithfully  and  solemnly  to  him ;  he  appeared  affected,  and  shed 
tears.  He  and  Dr.  Doddridge  have  preached  alternately  every  even- 
ing, and  have  occasionally  assisted  in  the  administration  of  the  Sacra- 
ment. How  holy,  how  humble,  is  that  excellent  man  \  and  what  divine 
^vords  fell  from  his  lips  at  the  lost  sacramental  feast  I  How  close 
and  searching  were  his  addresses  I  I  think  I  was  scarce  ever  so  happy 
before.  I  trust  my  journey  to  Bristol  will  be  for  good ! .  0,  that  my 
health  and  strength  may  be  wholly  employed  for  that  blessed  Redeemer 
who  has  done  such  great  things  for  me  !" 

Mr.  Whitefield  left  Ashby  the  first  week  in  February,  and 
towards  the  close  of  the  month  received  a  letter  from  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon, with  an  account  of  the  continued  improvement  in  her 
health,  which  rejoiced  the  benevolent  heart  of  that  great  and 
good  man. 

Early  in  the  month  of  March  Lady  Huntingdon  and  family 
left  Ashby  for  Bristol.  A  few  days  after  her  arrival  she  was 
agreeably  surprised  by  a  visit  from  Mr.  Whitefield,  who  had  been 
preaching  at  Gloucester  and  Tewksbury,  with  his  accustomed 
zeal  and  success.  Intending  to  proceed  towards  the  south,  he 
wrote  to  Mr.  Hervey  to  supply  his  place  :— 

"  This  comes  (says  he)  with  a  summons  from  good  Lady  Hunting- 
don for  you  to  appear  in  Bristol  and  abide  for  a  month  or  two  at 
my  brother's  house  :  you  must  not  refuse.  The  God  who  has  carried 
that  elect  Lady  through  such  bad  roads  from  Ashby  hither,  will  take 
care  of  you,  and  I  am  persuaded  you  will  not  repent  your  joumev. 
Her  Ladyship  made  the  motion  to  me,  and  intends  writing  herself. 
Blessed  be  Qod,  she  is  much  better,  and  I  trust  will  do  well.  She  will 
have  nobody  to  give  her  the  sacrament  unless  you  come." 

But  Mr.  Herve/s  precarious  state  of  health  would  not  permit 
his  accepting  her  Ladyship's  kind  invitation.  He  was  in  Lon- 
don, and  under  the  roof  ot  his  valued  friend,  at  the  Tabernacle- 
house. 


172  THK  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 


Jl 


^'  This  ^says  Mr.  Whitefield^  I  count  a  great  honour^  and  such  a 
rivilege,  tnat  I  wish  to  have  the  favour  conferred  on  me  as  long  as  I 
ive.     These  my  hands,  could  they  work,  or  was  there  occasion  for  it, 
should  readily  minister  to  your  necessities." 

Disappointed  of  Mr.  Hervey's  assistance,  Mr.  White6eld  wrote 
to  Mr.  Hartley  on  the  30th  of  March,  enclosing  a  letter  from 
Lady  Huntingdon)  requesting  him  to  visit  Bristol  without  delay : 

^^  I  am  persuaded  (says  he)  you  were  surprised  to  find  our  elect 
Lady  gone  from  Ashhy,  and  I  was  as  much  surprised  to  see  her  Lady- 
ship at  Bristol ;  I  hope  her  journey  was  of  God.  The  waters  agree 
with  her  wonderfully  already,  and  I  trust  she  will  he  restored  to  perfect 
health.  As  dear  Mr.  Hervey  cannot  he  prevailed  upon  to  come  do^vn, 
if  it  would  any  way  suit  you  to  he  with  her  Ladyship  a  month,  it  would 
much  refresh  ner,  and  I  believe  be  very  agreeable  to  you.  Some  pul- 
pits would  be  open  for  you,  and  who  knows  but  you  might  catch  some 
great  fish  in  the  gospel  net  ?  But  I  need  not  enforce  this,  since  her 
Ladyship  hath  written  to  you  herself.  May  the  blessed  Redeemer 
direct  your  going  in  his  way  I" 

After  a  short  visit  to  Plymouth,  Exeter,  and  other  places  in 
Devonshire  and  Somersetshire,  Mr.  Whitefield  returned  to 
Bristol,  where  he  found  Mr.  Daniel  Rowlands,  who  had  arrived  a 
few  days  before,  on  a  visit  to  Lady  Huntingdon.  These  apos- 
tolic labourers  preached  frequently  at  this  time  in  the  open  air, 
to  vast  multitudes,  who  heard  them  with  apparently  deep  and 
serious  attention : — 

'^  It  is  delightful  (says  her  Ladyship)  to  see  such  multitudes  flocking 
to  hear  the  word.  Mr.  Whitefield  and  Mr.  Rowlands  are  greatly 
owned  and  honoured  of  the  Lord  in  the  conversion  of  notorious  profli- 
gates and  self-righteous  formalists.  Very  many  have  been  compelled 
to  lay  down  the  arms  of  rebellion,  and  submit  to  the  all-conquering 
swoi^  of  the  Spirit.  Mr.  Hartley  hath  preached  several  times  in  the 
churches  with  great  acceptance.  I  trust  my  journey  hither  was  of  the 
Lord^  and  that  some  great  good  will  yet  appear  the  result  of  it.  I 
often  find  Luther's  words  appUcable  to  myself — He  was  never  eyn- 
ployed  about  any  fresh  work,  but  he  was  eWier  visited  with  a  fit  of  sick- 
ness  or  violent  temptation.'* 

About  this  time  the  Duchess  of  Somerset,  being  extremely 
anxious  to  learn  the  state  of  her  Ladyship's  health,  wrote  both 
to  Ashby  and  Bristol,  but  not  receiving  any  reply,  her  Grace 
wrote  thus  to  Mr.  Doddridge,  on  the  14th  of  April : — 

^'  I  have  wrote  twice  to  Lady  Huntingdon  since  I  have  had  a  letter 
firom  her ;  but  a  gentleman,  who  came  from  Bristol  last  week,  told 
me  that  she  was  there  ;  but  not  having  the  happiness  to  be  acquainted 
with  her^  he  could  give  me  no  account  of  her  health,  which  I  most 
earnestly  pray  may  be  restored  by  the  use  of  those  waters." 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  173 

Mr.  Hervey  also,  when  writing  to  Lady  Frances  Shirley,  in 
the  month  of  June,  says : — 

^'  I  have  not  had  the  favour  of  a  line  from  Lady  Huntingdon  for 
some  months.  When  I  was  at  London,  to  see  Mrs.  Whitcfield,  on  her 
return  from  Bristol,  she  told  me  that  the  good  Countess*s  health  was 
very  much  restored  by  the  waters  :  that  she  was  (to  use  her  own  ex- 
pression) charmingly  well.  I  hope  this  amendment  continues ;  and 
wish  it  may  be  perpetuated." 

The  unexpected  death  of  the  Prince  of  Wales  at  this  time 
was  an  alarmmg  stroke  to  the  nation : — 

^^  I  suppose  (says  Mr.  Whitefield)  the  death  of  our  Prince  bas  af- 
fected you.  It  has  given  me  a  shock — ^but  the  Lord  reignetb,  ajid  that 
is  our  comfort.*' 

The  unhappy  misunderstanding  between  the  Prince  and  his 
Father,  George  the  Second,  caused  him  to  emancipate  himself 
from  all  restniint,  and  form  a  party  of  his  own.  Inflamed  by  the 
artifices  and  ambition  of  his  supporters,  his  opposition  to  govern- 
ment became  systematic,  and  he  conceived  a  most  ill-rounded 
antipathy  against  Sir  Robert  Walpole,  his  father's  minister :  as 
he  had  a  taste  for  the  arts,  and  a  fondness  for  literary  pursuits, 
he  sought  the  society  of  persons  who  were  most  conspicuous  for 
their  talents  and  knowleoge.  He  was  thrown  into  the  company 
of  Carteret,  Chesterfield,  Pulteney,  Cobham,  and  Sir  William 
Wyndham,  who  were  considered  as  the  leading  characters  for 
wit,  talents,  and  urbanity.  His  house  became  the  rendezvous 
of  young  men  of  the  highest  expectation,  Pitt,  Lyttlefon,  and 
the  Granvilles;  whom  he  afterwards  took  into  his  hous^chold, 
and  made  his  associates.  The  usual  topic  of  conversation  in  this 
select  society  was  abuse  of  the  minister,  and  condemnation  of 
his  measures,  urged  with  all  the  keenness  of  wit  and  powers  of 
eloquence.  The  Prince  found  the  men  whose  reputation  was 
most  eminent  in  literature,  particularly  Swift,  Pope,  and  Thom- 
son,* adverse  to  Walpole,  who  was  the  object  of  their  private 
and  public  satire.  But  the  person  who  pnncipally  contributed 
to  aggravate  his  opposition  was  Bolingbroke,  whose  ambition 
ever  aimed  at  the  summit  of  power,  and  whose  immoderate  de- 
sires nothing  seemed  capable  of  satisfying  but  the  liberty  of 
foverning  all  things  without  a  rival.  About  1748  the  party  oi  the 
^rince  began  to  form  a  new  opposition ;  and  in  the  second  and 
third  sessions  of  the  new  Parhament  they  took  the  lead  against 
the  administration.     In  the  third  session,  which  commenced  in 

*  In  the  library  of  Cheshunt  College  is  a  volume  of  **  The  Seasons,**  pre- 
sented by  Thomson  himself  to  Lady  HuntingdoDy  with  an  autogtaph  in- 
scriptioD. 


)74  THE  UFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

January  1751|  the  party  of  the  Prince  seemed  likely  to  gain 
great  accession  from  the  merited  unpopularity  which  the  ministry 
mcurred  by  the  subsidiary  treaties  in  Germany ;  while  Ix)rd 
Cobham  and  his  friends  meditated  a  secession  irom  the  minis- 
terial phalanx*  But  the  unexpected  death  of  the  Prince  gave  a 
new  aspect  to  public  affairs,  and  produced  a  great  and  singular 
change  in  the  temper  of  the  court  and  the  councils  of  the 
kingdom.  ^'  Providence  (says  the  Duchess  of  Somerset,  in  a 
letter  to  Dr.  Doddridge)  seems  to  have  directed  the  blow 
where  we  thought  ourselves  the  most  secure ;  for  among  the 
many  schemes  of  hopes  and  fears  which  people  were  laying 
down  to  themselves,  this  was  never  mentioned  as  a  supposable 
event.  The  harmony  which  appears  to  subsist  between  his 
Majesty  and  the  Princess  of  Wales  is  the  best  support  for  the 
spirits  of  the  nation,  under  their  present  concern  and  astonish- 
ment He  died  in  the  forty-fifth  year  of  his  age,  and  is  generally 
allowed  to  have  been  a  Prince  of  amiable  and  generous  disposi- 
tioD,  of  elegant  manners,  and  of  considerable  talents.*'' 

The  loss  of  this  amiable  and  accomplished  Prince  was  most 
sensibly  felt  by  Lady  Huntingdon,  who,  in  early  life,  was  fre- 
quent in  her  attendfance  at  Court,  and  had  many  opportuni- 
ties of  witnessing  the  simplicity  and  elega^ice  of  his  manners, 
the  liberality  of  nis  principles,  and  the  benevolence  of  his  dis- 
position. When  the  Prince's  difference  with  his  father  led  him 
to  keep  his  own  Court,  her  Ladvship  attended  it,  and  Lord 
Huntingdon,  Lord  Ferrars,  and  others  of  her  Ladyship's  friends, 
were  his  political  supporters.  When  her  Ladyship  witiidrew 
from  her  attendance  at  the  fashionable  circle  of  the  great,  the 
line  of  conduct  which  she  thought  pro])er  to  pursue  naturally 
excited  the  enmity  of  those  of  her  own  rank,  although  she  had 
a  testimony  in  the  consciences  of  them,  as  appeared  even  in 
their  words,  that  what  she  did  was  right.  One  day,  at  Court, 
the  Prince  of  Wales  inquired  of   Lady  Charlotte  Edwin,f  a 

*  Hb  Royal  HigiineM  had  some  claiiss  to  consideration  on  the  score  of 
litenuy  talents.  See  Park's  edition  of  Lord  Orfiord*s  Royal  and  Noble  Authors, 
YoL  L  p.  171. 

f  Lady  Charlotte  was  a  daughter  of  James,  Duke  of  Hamilton,  who  was  un- 
fortunately  killed  in  a  duel  hj  his  brother-in-law.  Lord  Mohuo.  She  married 
Charles  Edwin,  of  Duniaven,  in  Glamorganshire,  Esq.,  M.  P.  for  t^t  county, 
who  died  at  Kensington,  June  29, 1756.  Ladv  Charlotte  was  on«  of  the  ladies 
of  the  bed-chamber  to  Augusta,  Princess  of  Wales ;  and  died  at  London,  Feb. 
1,  1777,  in  her  74th  year,  without  issue,  leaving  a  large  fortune,  chiefly  to  the 
Di^  of  Haiailton.  Lady  Chaiiotte,  some  years  after  the  circumstance  reUted 
above,  became  very  intimate  with  liady  Huntinffdon,  and  a  constant  attendant 
on  Uie  miiUAtry  of  Mr*  Whitefield  and  those  taithful  men  who  preached  for 
her  Ludyship.  Ths  mlAfommes  of  her  sister^  Lady  Susgn  Keck,  and  the  con- 
duct of  her  8Juitec-in*UiW9  the  notorioiu  liOdy  Vane,  had  a  powerfid  «ff^(  in 


SELlHAf  00UKTBS8  Of  BUNTIVODON.  176 

lady  of  &shioD,  where  my  Lady  Huntingdon  was,  that  she  so 
seldom  visited  the  circle  ?  Lady  Charlotte,  replied,  with  a  sneer, 
"  I  suppose  praj^ing  with  her  beggars."  The  Prince  shook  his 
head,  and,  turning  to  Lady  Charlotte,  said,  ^^Lady  Charlotte, 
when  I  am  dying,  1  think  I  shall  be  happy  to  seize  the  skirt  of 
Lady  Huntingdon's  mantle,  to  lift  me  up  with  her  to  heaven." 

A  letter  from  Lord  Bolingbroke  had  apprised  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon of  the  unexpected  demise  of  the  Prmce  of  Wales :  ^^  an 
event  (says  his  Lordship)  likely  to  cause  many  extraordinary 
changes  at  Court,  and  much  discontent  in  the  kmgdom."  Her 
Ladyship  never  took  any  interest  or  part  in  the  poUtics  of  the 
times,  although,  from  family  connexions  and  other  causes,  her 
earliest  associates  were  generally  in  the  opposition  rank.  De- 
sirous of  knowing  the  feelings  and  sentiments  of  the  Prince  at 
the  close  of  life,  she  wrote  to  Mr.  Lyttleton,  who  had  been 
principal  Secretary  to  his  Royal  Highness.  Little  could  be  as- 
certained, yet  that  little  was  satisfactory : — 

'*•  It  is  certain  ^says  her  Ladyship)  that  he  was  in  the  habit  of 
reading  Dr.  Doddndge's  works,  whicn  bad  been  presented  to  the  Prin- 
cess, and  has  been  heard  to  express  his  approbation  of  them  in  the 
highest  terms.  He  had  frequent  argument  with  my  Lord  Bolingbroke^ 
who  thought  his  Royal  Highness  fast  verging  towards  Methodism,  the 
doctrines  of  which  he  was  yery  curious  to  ascertain.  His  Lordship 
told  me,  that  the  Prince  went  more  than  once  privately  to  hear  Mr. 
Whitefield,  with  whom  he  said  he  was  much  pleased.  Had  he  lived, 
it  is  not  improbable  but  Mr.  Whitcfield  would  have  been  promoted  in 
some  way.  But  an  all-wise  Providence  has  seen  fit  to  remove  him  to 
another  world.  May  the  Judge  of  all  the  earth  dignify  liini  with 
the  illustrious  character  of  Kins  and  Priest,  in  that  kingdom  purchased 
for  the  heirs  of  salvation,  by  the  unspeakably  precious  merits  of  Him 
who  was  exalted  as  a  Prince  and  a  Saviour,  and  humbled  himself  to 
death,  even  the  death  of  the  cross,  to  procure  for  us  a  heavenly — a 
blissful  inheritance  beyond  the  skies !" 

Dr.  Francis  Ayscough,  afterwards  Dean  of  Bristol,  who  had 
married  one  of  the  sisters  of  Lord  Lyttleton,  was  appointed  clerk 
of  the  closet  to  the  Prince  of  Wales,  and  first  preceptor  to  his 
late  Majesty,  George  HL  On  being  appointed  by  the  Prince 
to  take  chaise  of  the  education  of  his  children,  Dr.  Doddridee 
wrote  him  a  letter  of  congratulation  i  in  reply  to  which  the 
Doctor  says : — 

^  I  am  truly  sensible  of  the  difficulties  as  well  as  the  advantages  of 
the  station  I  am  placed  in.  A  trust  of  such  importance  to  posterity 
is  a  charge  which  1  have  not  only  on  my  mind,  but  in  my  conscience. 

leading  her  to  think  with  deep  seriousness  on  the  great  concerns  of  an  eternal 
world.  Frequent  mention  is  made  of  Lady  Charlotte  in  the  Diary  of  the  cele- 
brated Bubb  DoddingtM,  ttewwds  Lord  aMgooiIm.' 


lie  tHE  LIFE  AVt>  TIMES  OP 

I  hope  God  will  enable  me  to  go  through  it  with  success  ;  and  I  think 
I  have  a  right  to  call  upon  every  good  man  and  lover  of  his  country 
for  advice  and  assistance  in  the  discharge  of  a  duty^  on  the  faithful 
performance  of  which  the  public  20od  so  much  depends.  And  as  you 
have  been  so  much  concerned  in  me  education  of  youth,  I  shall  always 
be  glad  to  receive  anv  advice  or  instructions  from  you ;  which  I  desire 
you  to  give  me  freely^  and  I  promise  you  it  shall  be  most  friendly 
received.  I  thank  Uod  I  have  one  great  encouragement  to  quicken 
me  in  my  duty,  which  is,  the  good  disposition  of  the  children  entrusted 
to  me :  as  an  instance  of  it,  I  must  tell  you  that  Prince  Geoige*  .(to 
his  honour  and  my  shame)  had  learnt  several  pages  in  your  little  book 
of  verses,  without  any  directions  from  me :  and  I  most  say  of  all  the 
children  (for  they  are  all  committed  to  my  care)  that  they  are  as  con- 
formable and  as  capable  of  receiving  instruction  as  any  I  ever  yet  met 
with.  How  unpardonable,  then,  should  I  be  in  the  sight  of  God  and 
man,  if  I  neglected  my  part  towards  them  !  All  that  I  can  say  is,  that 
no  care  or  diligence  shall  be  wanting  in  me  ;  and  I  beg  the  prayer  of 
you>  and  every  honest  man,  for  the  Divuic  blessing  on  my  endeavours." 

It  was  through  the  kindness  of  Lady  Huntingdon  that  Dr. 
Ayscough  had  become  acquainted  with  ner  favourite,  Dr.  Dod- 
dndge,  whom  her  Ladyship  represented  as  a  gentleman,  a 
scholar,  and  an  able  and  pious  mmister  in  Christ.  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon prevailed  upon  the  Doctor  to  present,  as  we  before 
stated,  his  work  on  the  "  Rise  and  Progress  of  Religion"  to  the 
Princess  of  Wales,  through  the  medium  of  Dr.  Ayscough,  who 
thus  informed  him  of  the  execution  of  the  commission  ne  had 
entrusted  him  with  : — 

"  I  presented  your  book  to  her  Royal  Highness,  and  ought  long 
since  to  have  acquainted  you  with  her  most  gracious  acceptance  of  it, 
and  that  I  was  commanded  to  return  you  her  thanks  for  it.  There  is. 
indeed,  such  a  spirit  of  piety  in  it  as  deserves  the  thanks  of  every  good 
Christian.  May  God  grant  it  may  have  its  proper  effect  in  awakening 
this  present  careless  age  !  and  then  I  am  sure  you  will  have  your  end 
in  publishing  it" 

Dr.  Doddridge  was  at  this  time  publishing  "The  Family 
Expositor,"  by  subscription.  One  volume  had  already  appeared, 
and  few  persons  in  the  circle  of  the  Doctor's  friends  made  more 
strenuous  exertions  for  the  circulation  of  his  work  than  Lady 
Huntingdon.  But  the  dangerous  illness  of  their  faithful  and 
much-esteemed  friend,  Mr.  Lyttleton,  retarded  the  printing  of 
the  remaining  volumes. 

**  The  three  volumes  Tsays  Dr.  Doddridge)  will  hardly  be  published 
at  so  small  a  price  as  a  tnousand  pounds,  and  I  shall  judge  it  the  part 
of  prudence,  and  therefore  of  duty,  not  to  send  them  to  the  press  on 
any  terms  on  which  I  shall  not  be  secure ;  and  if  there  be  such  a  num- 

*  His  late  Migcsty,  George  IIL 


SELINAj  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  177 

ber  subscribed  for,  or  bespoke  by  booksellers,  as  to  effect  tbat,  I  sball 
go  on  with  the  publication  as  fast  as  I  can ;  and  bless  God  for  such  an 
opportunity  of  doing  any  public  homage  to  his  word^  and  endeavouring 
>vith  all  integrity  and  simpHcity  to  make  it  understood,  and  to  enforce 
it  on  men's  consciences  according  to  the  little  ability  he  has  been  pleased 
to  give  me ;  wliich  truly  I  think  so  little,  that  I  am  sometimes  almost 
ashamed  of  haying  undertaken  so  great  a  work." 

Mr.  Lyttleton,  however,  soon  recovered,  and  in  a  short  time 
transmitted  to  Lady  Huntingdon  a  long  list  of  additional  sub- 
scribers : — 

^'  I  have  the  unspeakable  pleasure  (says  her  Ladyship)  of  commu- 
nicating intelligence  that  will  rejoice  my  much-esteemed  friend.  You 
%vill  be  thankful  that  the  great  Author  of  all  good  hos  raised  our  friend, 
Mr.  Lyttleton,  from  the  borders  of  the  grave,  and  he  is  now  quite 
recovered  from  his  late  most  alarming  indisposition.  I  have  just  had 
a  letter  from  him,  lamenting  his  not  having  procured  a  larger  list  of 
subscribers  to  '  The  Expositor,'  owing  principally  to  the  delay  caused 
by  his  illness ;  but  hopes>  as  soon  as  his  strengtii  is  restored^  to  redeem 
the  time  that  is  lost  by  redoubUng  his  exertions." 

Mr.  Lyttleton's  exertions  in  procuring  subscriptions  for  the 
remaining  volumes  of  "  The  Family  Expositor''  were  the  means 
of  introducing  it  to  many  in  high  life,  to  whom  it  might  other- 
wise have  had  no  access.  ^'  Most  earnestly  (continues  her 
Ladyship)  do  I  pray  the  Lord  of  all  lords  to  prolong  your 
valuable  life,  ana  give  you  strength  and  abilities  for  the  com** 
pletion  of  a  work  so  calculated  to  promote  the  glory  of  his  name> 
and  the  everlasting  good  of  mankmd." 

It  was  now  that  letters  from  the  Duchess  of  Bridgewater  and 
Dr.  Ayscough  to  Ladv  Huntingdon  announced  the  unexpected 
death  of  Sir  Thomas  Lyttleton,  who  had  long  been  an  intimate 
friend  of  the  late  Lord  Huntingdon  and  several  branches  of  the 
house  of  Hastings.  "  My  father  (says  Sir  George,  afterwards 
the  well-known  and  respected  Lord  Lyttleton,)  met  death  with 
so  noble  a  firmness,  ana  so  assured  a  hope  of  a  blessed  immor- 
tality, that  it  is  raised  our  thoughts  above  our  grief,  and  fixed 
them  much  more  in  the  example  he  has  left  us,  than  in  the 
loss  we  have  sustained."  Ill  health  had  obliged  him  to  retire 
from  a  public  station,  and  he  lived  retired,  in  the  continual  exer- 
cise of  all  the  virtues  which  can  ennoble  private  life.  His  sound 
judgment,  inflexible  integrity)  and  universal  candour,  recom- 
mended him  to  the  esteem  of  all  parties.  Though  in  a  state  of 
great  bodily  suffering,  his  immediate  death  was  not  contemplated 
by  his  famdy : — 

^'  As  far  as  I  can  judge  (writes  Lady  Huntingdon)  from  what  the 
Duchess  and  Dr.  Ayscough  write  couceroiDg  Sir  Thomas,  he  must  have 

VOL.  1. — V 


178  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

left  these  scenes  of  mortality  \iith  a  well-founded  Lope  of  happiness. 
The  perusal  of  Dr.  Doddridge's  ^  Rise  and  Progress  of  Religion'  was 
much  blessed  to  him ;  and  on  his  dying  bed  he  recommended  it  to  the 
serious  attendon  of  bis  children.  I  have  not  time  at  present  to  give 
you  many  particulars ;  but  one  expressiou  that  dropped  from  him  the 
day  before  his  departure  appears  satisfactory,  and  most  consoling  to  liis 
afflicted  family.  Mr.  Lyttleton  had  read  some  chapters  from  the  Bihle, 
and  afterwards  engaged  in  prayer  for  his  dying  parent ;  when  he  had 
concluded,  Sir  George  expressed  his  readiness  to  depart,  adding,  *  My 
dear  child,  I  feel  that  God  my  Saviour  has  pardoned  all  my  sins ;  and, 
from  what  you  have  just  read,  that  his  blood  cleanseth  from  all  iniquity. 
I  derive  great  comfort,  for  he  is  my  only,  only  hopb/  I  pray  that 
this  affliction  may  be  sanctified  to  the  good  of  surviving  relatives.  The 
Duchess  is  quite  inconsolahle ;  hut  the  good  Doctor  rejoices  in  the 
eternal  happiness  of  his  respected  father-in-law.  I  shall  write  to  both 
the  next  post/'* 

Intelligence  of  the  death  of  the  excellent  Dr.  Doddridge  now 
arrived  in  England,  and  was  quickly  followed  by  that  of  a  cha- 
racter in  every  respect  dissimilar — namely,  the  Lord  Viscount 
Bolingbroke,f  a  man  of  fascinating  manners  and  commanding 
eloquence,  abounding  in  wit  and  fancy,  master  of  polite  learn- 
ing, which  he  knew  now  to  draw  forth  on  all  occasions ;  but 
in  his  private  character  without  morals  and  without  priii- 
ciples.  The  intelligence  was  communicated  to  her  Ladyship 
by  his  Lordship's  only  sister,  the  eccentric  and  acComplislied 
Lady  Luxborough,  the  friend  and  correspondent  of  Shenstone, 
the  poet. 

His  Lordship  entertained  a  very  contemptuous  opinion  of 
clergymen  in  general ;  and  this  is  not  much  to  be  wondered  at, 
for  many  of  those  with  whom  he  had  come  in  contact  were  mere 
sycophants  and  time-senrers — fawning  on  the  great  for  pre- 
ferment. The  well-known  Dr.  Trapp,  Rector  of  the  united 
parishes  of  Christ  Church,  Newgate-street,  and  St.  Leonard, 
Foster-lane,  was  his  chaplain.     He  acted  as  manager  to  that  celc- 

*  Several  of  the  fiunily  of  Sir  Thomas  Lytdelon  had  much  of  the  external 
appearance  of  religion  ;  and  it  is  hoped  that  some  of  them  possessed  the  hfe 
aud  power  of  divine  truth  in  their  own  souls.  Of  the  Duchess  of  Bridgewatcr 
little  is  known.  Her  Grace  occasionally  attended  Mr.  WhitefieldV  preaching 
at  Lady  Huntingdon's,  and  sometimes  corresponded  with  hei  Ladyship,  as  did 
also  several  members  of  the  family,  all  of  whom  retained  a  high  respect  and 
esteem  for  a  character  of  such  exalted  excellence.  Lady  Lyttleton,  who  had 
been  one  of  the  Maids  of  Honour  to  Queen  Anne,  was  a  daughter  of  Sir  Richard 
Temple,  of  Stow ;  her  eldest  sister  married  Dr.  Richard  West,  Prebendary  of 
Winchester,  and  was  mother  of  Gilbert  West,  Esq.,  a  poet,  and  well  knomii 
for  his  "  Observations  on  the  Resurrection." 

f  He  was  affected  with  a  cancer  in  the  cheek-bone,  for  which  he  wai  treated 
by  W.  Cheselden,  Esq.,  head  Surgeon  of  St  Thomas's  and  Chelsea  Hospitals ; 
but  renouncing  the  aid  of  this  accomplished  suigeon,  and  employlDg  a  quack, 
the  philotophic  infidel  died  moet  miiOBbly. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OP   HUKTINODON.  179 

brated  high-church  bigot.  Dr.  8acheverel,  in  his  trial  before  the 
House  of  Lords.  With  Lord  and  Lady  Huntingdon  Dr.  Trapp 
was  well  acquainted,  and  was  a  frequent  guest  at  their  house. 
From  a  mistaken  notion  that  he  was  recommending  himself  to 
his  ecclesiastical  superiors,  he  invariably  manifested  the  most 
implacable  hatred  to  the  whole  Methodist  body.  His  "  Pre- 
servative against  unsettled  Notions  in  Religion,**  and  his  "  Sin 
and  Folly  of  being  Righteous  over-much,  were  answered  by 
Messrs.  Whitefield,  Wesley,  and  Law. 

Dr.  Thomas  Church,  Vicar  of  Battersea  and  Prebendary  of 
St.  Paul's,  was  likewise  the  intimate  friend  of  Lord  Bolingbroke, 
and,  after  his  Lordship's  decease,  published  an  Analysis  of  his 
Philosophical  Works.  He  also  was  a  violent  exposer  of  the 
Methodists,  and  addressed  a  "  Serious  and  Expostulatory  Ix;t- 
ter"  to  Mr.  Whitefield,  and  "  Remarks  on  Mr.  Wesley's  JoUr* 
nal,  in  a  Letter  to  that  Gentleman."* 

It  is  well  known  that  Lord  Bolingbroke  professed  himself  a 
Deist :  and  those  principles  which  he  had  all  long  avowed  he 
confirmed  with  his  dying  breath,  having  given  orders  that  none 
of  the  clergy  stk)uld  be  permitted  to  trouble  him  in  his  latest 
moments.  He  often  attended  Mr.  Whitefield's  ministry,  and  on 
several  occasions  complimented  him  on  his  eloquence  and 
abilities : — 

^'  He  is  (says  liis  Lordship,  in  a  letter  to  Lady  Huntingdon,)  the 
most  extraordinary  man  in  our  times.  He  has  the  most  commauding 
eloquence  I  ever  heard  in  any  person — bis  abilities  are  very  consi- 
derable— his  zeal  unquenchable,  and  his  piety  and  excellence  genuine, 
unquestionable.  The  bisbops  and  inferior  orders  of  the  clergy  arc 
very  angry  with  him,  and  endeavour  to  represent  him  as  a  hypocrite^ 
an  enthusiast :  but  this  is  not  astonishing ;  there  is  so  little  real  good- 

*  The  Rer.  Martin  Madan,  in  bis  *'  Comments  on  the  Thirty-nine  ArticleV' 
rebites  the  fullowin<^  curious  anecdute  olf  Lord  Bolingbroke  atid  Dr.  Church,  on 
the  authority  of  Lady  Huntingdon,  to  whom  it  was  communicated  by  his  Lord- 
fthip  himselt.  Lord  Bjlingbruke  was  one  day  sitting  in  his  house  at  i^attersen, 
reading  Calvin^s  **  Institutes/*  when  he  icceived  a  morning  visit  from  Doctor 
Church.  After  the  usual  salutations,  he  asked  the  Doctor  if  he  could  gUess 
what  the  book  was  which  then  lay  before  him  ;  *^  and  which,**  says  Lord  Bo* 
lingbroke,  **  I  have  been  studying  ?'*  **  No,  rctUly,  my  Lord,  I  cannot,**  quoih 
the  Doctor.  **  It  is  Calvin*s '  Institutes,'  *'  said  Lord  Bolingbroke.  *'  What 
do  you  think  of  thehe  matters?**  Doctor, — "Oh,  my  Lord,  we  don*t  think 
about  such  antiquated  stuff;  we  teach  the  plain  doctrines  of  viitue  and 
morality,  aiid>have  long  laid  aside  those  abstruse  points  about  grace.**  **  Look 
vou.  Doctor,"  said  Loid  Bolingbroke ;  '*  yon  know  I  don*t  believe  the  Bible  to 
be  a  divine  revelation;  but  they  who  do,  can  never  defend  it  on  any  principles 
but  the  doctrine  of  gnce.  To  say  truth,  1  have  at  times  been  almost  persuaded 
to  believe  it  upon  tnis  view  of  things ;  and  there  is  one  argument  which  has 

ne  very  far  with  me  in  behalf  of  its  authenticity,  which  is,  that  the  belief  in 
'xists  upon  earth,  even  when  committed  to  the  care  of  such  a*  you, 
who  pretend  to  believe  it,  and  yet  deny  tiie  only  principles  on  which  it  is 
defensible.** 

n3 


180  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

nc88  or  honesty  amongst  them.  Your  Ladyship  will  be  somewhat 
amused  at  hearing  that  the  King  has  recommended  to  his  Grace  of 
Canterbury  that  Mr.  Whitefield  should  be  advanced  tp  the  Bench  as 
the  only  means  of  putting  an  end  to  his  preaching.  What  a  keen — 
what  a  biting  remark !  but  how  just — and  how  well  earned  by  those 
mitred  Lords !" 

His  friendship  for  Lady  Huntingdon,  and  his  admiration 
of  her  talents  and  her  devotedness  to  the  cause  of  God  her 
Saviour,  were  extraordinary,  and  continued  unabated  to  the  close 
of  his  life.  With  her  Laa^ship  he  frequently  conversed  on  the 
most  solenui  truths  of  religion.  Disdaining  the  restraints  of 
God*s  law,  and  priding  himself  in  freedom  of  thought  above  the 
vulgar,  the  wisdom  of  God,  in  his  eyes,  was  foolishness ;  and 
Revelation,  at  the  bar  of  his  "  exalted  reason,"  was  weighed  and 
found  wanting  !  Nevertheless,  he  was  seldom  in  her  company 
without  discussing  some  topic  beneficial  to  his  eternal  interests, 
and  he  always  paid  the  utmost  respect  and  deference  to  her 
Ladyship's  opinion.  On  one  occasion  he  said,  *•  How  does  your 
Ladyship  reconcile  prayer  to  God  for  particular  blessings,  with 
absolute  resignation  to  the  Divine  will  ?" — "  Very  easily,"  re- 
plied the  Countess;  "just  as  if  I  was  to  offer  a  petition  to  a 
monarch  of  whose  kindness  and  wisdom  I  have  the  highest 
opinion.  In  such  a  case  my  language  would  be — *  I  wish  you  to 
bestow  on  me  such  a  favour;  but  your  Majesty  knows  better 
than  I  how  far  it  would  be  agreeable  to  you,  or  right  in  itself  to 
grant  my  desire.  I  therefore  content  myself  with  humbly  pre- 
senting my  petition,  and  leave  the  event  of  it  entirely  to  you.' " 

Lord  Bolingbroke's  second  wife,  the  Marchioness  of  Villetta, 
was  niece  to  the  celebrated  Madame  de  Maintenon  (wife  of 
Louis  XIV.)  the  cruel  instigator  of  those  horrid  persecutions 
of  the  Protestants  which  disgraced  the  reign  of  that  great 
monarch.  She  was  a  woman  of  superior  accomplishments,  and 
styled  by  her  aunt,  in  her  publishea  letters,  "  The  most  sensible 
person  among  her  female  relations."  Between  her  Ladyship 
and  the  eccentric  Lady  Luxborouffh,  his  Lordship's  only  sister, 
there  existed  little  cordiality.  With  Ladv  Fanny  Shirley  she 
was  particularly  intimate ;  and  was  very  regular  in  her  attendance 
at  Lady  Huntingdon's  to  hear  Mr.  Whitefield,  and  other  eminent 
ministers.  "  Of  Lord  Bolingbroke  and  the  Marchioness  (says 
her  Ladyship)  I  sometimes  have  a  hope;  they  attend  with  such 
regularity,  and  hear  with  such  apparent  attention.  But  Lady 
Luxborough  is  so  odd,  and  so  engrossed  with  her  poets  and 
literary  acquaintances,  that  she  has  neither  time  nor  attention 
to  spare  for  that  which  concerns  her  never-dying  soul :  she  is 
good-humoured  and  good-natured^  though  no  great  love  exists 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  181 

between  her  and  the  Marchioness,  for  what  cause  I  know  not. 
I  cannot  help  feeling  very  anxious  about  them :  and  hope  and 
pray  that  the  Father  of  light  may  illuminate  their  darkened 
understandings,  and  give  them  at  last  the  knowledge  of  himself, 
whom  to  know  is  everlasting  life."* 

Not  long  after  the  death  of  Lord  Bolingbroke,  his  works,  in 
five  pompous  quartos,  edited  by  Mr.  David  Mallet,  were  given 
to  the  public.  The  wild  and  pernicious  ravings,  under  the  name 
of  "  Pnilosophy,"  which  were  thus  ushered  into  the  world,  gave 
great  offence  to  all  well-principled  men,  and  produced  a  host  of 
answers  and  refutations.  Of  these,  the  most  celebrated  were 
by  Clayton,  Bishop  of  Clogher ;  Warburton,  Bishop  of  Glou- 
cester;  Dr.  Lelana,  in  his  **  Review  of  Deistical  Writers ;"  and 
Mr.  Hervey,  whose  answer  to  his  Lordship's  observations  on  ther 
"  Use  and  Study  of  History"  was  addressed  to  Lady  Fanny 
Shirley.  Dr.  Johnson,  hearing  of  the  mischievous  tendency  of 
Lord  Bolingbroke's  works,  which  nobody  disputed,  was  roused 
with  a  just  indignation,  and  pronounced  this  memorable  sentence 
on  the  noble  author  and  his  editor :  ^^  Sir,  he  was  a  scoundrel 
and  a  coward :  a  scoundrel  for  charging  a  blunderbuss  a^nst 
religion  and  morality ;  a  coward,  because  he  had  not  resolution 
to  fire  it  off  himself,  but  left  half-a-crown  to  a  beggarly  Scotch- 
man to  draw  the  trigger  after  his  death  !" 

Lady  Huntingdon,  hearing  of  Mr.  Mallet's  intention,  made 
some  fruitless  efforts  to  prevent  the  publication  of  Lord  Boling- 
broke's  works.  "  I  have  written  to  Mr.  Mallet  (says  her  Lady- 
ship) and  used  my  influence  with  Lord  Chesterfield  and  others, 
to  try,  if  possible,  to  suppress  what  must  be  so  detrimental  to 
manxind.''     But  Mallet  wa§  a  determined  infidel,  and  in  other 

*  Lady  Luxborough  was  the  only  daughter  of  the  Viscount  St 'John,  and 
half  sister  to  Lord  Bolingbroke.  ms  brother  John,  who  succeeded  as  second 
Viscount  St  John,  had  married  a  daughter  of  Lady  Anne  Fumess,  the  aunt  of 
Ladv  Huntingdon,  and  left  three  sons  and  three  daughters,  one  of  whom  married 
Lord  Bagot  Her  Ladyship  was  very  intimate  with  the  unfortunate  Lord 
Ferrers,  who  had  married  her  bosom  triend,  one  of  the  sisters  of  Sir  William 
Meredith.  The  ill  conduct  of  her  only  daughter,  who  was  divorced  from  her 
husband  and  afterwards  married  the  Hon.  W.  Child,  raised  a  storm,  not  only  in 
her  own  family,  but  in  the  world,  and  drew  forth  letters  of  condolence  from 
the  Duchess  of  Somerset  and  Ladv  Huntingdon.  The  latter  she  thanked  very 
politely  for  her  sympathy,  but  styles  the  letter  of  the  Duchess  a  "  kind  of  ser- 
mon,** and  spares  her  correspondent,  Mr.  Shenstone,  the  labour  of  perusing  so 
'*  serious  an  epistle.**  Lady  Luxboroueb  died  in  1756.  "  Unhappy  woman ! 
(savs  Lady  Huntingdon)  how  insensible  has  she  been  to  the  manv  alarming 
calu  of  Providence  which  she  has  received  from  time  to  Hme.  Such  repeated 
deaths  in  her  fiunily,  the  awful  end  of  her  brother.  Lord  Bolingbroke,  made  no 
impression  on  her ;  and  she  left  this  world,  as  she  had  always  lived,  intoxicated 
with  the  vanity  of  her  numerous  accomplishments  and  literarv  acquirements.*' 
Yet  her  letters  to  Shenstone,  published  after  his  death,  1763,  although  pleasing 
and  flattering  to  the  poet,  maae  a  weak  impression  on  the  public 


182  THE  LITE  AKD  VIME8  Of 

respects  a  worthless  character.  By  address  or  accident^  perhaps 
by  nis  dependence  on  the  Prince  of  Wales,  to  whom  he  was 
Under-Secretary,  Mallet  found  his  way  to  Lord  Bolingbroke,  a 
man  whose  pride  and  petulance  made  his  kindness  difficult  to 
gain  or  keep,  and  whom  Mallet  was  content  to  court  by  an  act 
of  unexampled  infamy.  On  the  death  of  Pope,  when  it  was 
found  that  ne  had  clandestinely  printed  an  unauthorized  number 
of  the  pamphlet  called  ^^  The  Patriot  King,"  Bolingbroke,  in  a 
fit  of  useless  fury,  resolved  to  blast  his  memory,  and  employed 
Mallet  as  the  mstrument  of  his  vengeance.  This  time-server 
had  not  virtue,  or  had  not  spirit,  to  refuse  the  office ;  and  was 
rewarded  not  long  after  with  the  legacy  of  Lord  Bolingbroke's 
works.  This  man  also  received  a  legacy  of  five  hundred  pounds 
from  Sarah,  Duchess  of  Marlborough,  to  write  the  life  of  her 
husband ;  but  he  never  fulfilled  the  engagement ;  and  if  any- 
thing could  add  to  his  infamy,  it  was  the  publishing  of  libels 
against  Byn^,  while  that  unfortunate  admiral  was  on  his  trial ; 
and  for  which  the  calumniator  was  rewarded  with  a  pension  and 
a  place.  ^^  I  mourn  the  fate  of  poor  Byng  (says  Lady  Hunting- 
don), and  envy  not  the  feelings  o{  his  vuifier.  Every  effort  to 
save  him  proved  ineffectual ;  and  he  is  added  to  the  number  of 
victims  to  ]K>pular  clamour  and  ministerial  policy." 

In  whatever  light  we  view  the  character  of  Lord  Bolingbroke, 
we  shall  find  him  rather  an  object  of  wonder  than  an  example 
for  imitation ;  more  to  be  feared  than  esteemed,  and  gaining 
our  admiration  without  our  love.  The  world  now  begins  to 
think  justly  both  of  him  and  of  Pope :  that  Pope  was  the  greats 
est  poet,  but  not  the  most  disinterested  man  in  the  world ;  and 
that  Bolingbroke  had  not  all  those  virtues,  nor  all  those  talents 
which  the  other  so  proclaimed :  that  he  did  not  even  deserve 
the  friendship  which  lent  him  so  much  merit ;  and  for  the  mere 
loan  of  which  he  dissembled  attachment  to  Pope,  to  whom  in 
his  heart  ho  was  as  perfidious  and  as  false  as  he  was  to  the  rest 
of  the  world. 


SELIXA,  COUNTESS  OT  HUMTIKODOK.  183 


CHAPTER  XI. 

Mr.  Whitefield  in  Scotland — Dr.  Erskine  and  Dr.  Robertson — Scotch  Nobility 
.^Mr.  and  Lady  Jane  Nimmo — Letter  to  Lady  Huntingdon — Mr.  Wardrobe 

—Mr.  Hervey :  bis  "  Theron  and  Aspasio** — Letters  to  Lady  Huntingdon 

Lady  Fanny  Shirley.—Prince  and  Princess  of  Wales-.^r.  Hervey*8  method 
of  preaching— Letter  from  Lady  Huntingdon— Mr.  Steward— Lady  Anne 
Hastings.  ^ 

Mr.  Whitefield  visited  Scotland,  for  the  first  time,  in  1741. 
The  fame  of  his  success  as  a  popular  preacher  in  England  and 
America,  had  induced  individuals  of  difTerent  persuasions,  and, 
in  particular,  a  class  of  ministers  who  had  lately  seceded  from 
the  Established  Church,  to  invite  him  earnestly  to  that  country, 
from  an  expectation  that  he  might  be  as  successful  in  promoting 
the  revival  of  reli^on  there,  as  they  believed  him  to  have  been 
in  England  and  America ;  it  was  also  not  unreasonably  hoped 
on  the  part  of  the  seceding  friends,  that,  by  means  of  his  popu- 
larity, directed  by  them,  they  might  gain  both  attention  and  in- 
fluence to  their  in&nt  sect. 

He  continued  to  officiate,  as  he  had  originally  done  in  En^ 
land,  sometimes  in  the  parish  churches,  and  more  frequently  in 
the  fields,  in  the  most  populous  districts  of  Scotland ;  from 
Edinburgh  and  Glas^w,  to  Leith,  Dundee,  and  Aberdeen,  every 
where  attended  by  immense  multitudes  of  people ;  on  many 
occasions  producing  effects  on  his  hearers  ot  every  rank,  age, 
and  character,  of  which,  though  there  may  have  been  similar 
examples,  yet  there  are  certainly  not  many  more  striking  or 
perhaps  equal  instances  on  record. 

On  this  first  visit  to  Scotland  he  was  most  hospitably  received 
by  many  persons  of  rank,  who  behaved  towards  him  with  great 
politeness  and  attention :  and  this  attention  was  considerably 
increased  in  every  subsequent  visit,  after  he  became  chaplain  to 
the  Countess  of  Huntingdon ;  her  Ladyship  being,  as  we  have 
already  shown,  well  known  to  many  of  the  Scotch  nobihty, 
among  whom  she  had  a  very  extensive  acquaintance.  His  aa- 
herence  to  the  doctrines  of  Ualvin,  which  he  affirmed  to  be  the 
doctrines  of  the  Church  of  England,  rendered  him  &r  more 
popular  than  Mr.  Wesley ;  who,  although  he  was  more  literary, 
and  spoke  with  more  classical  correctness,  was  yet  compelled  to 
admit  the  effect  of  Mr.  Whitefield'a  eloquence,  amidst  all  the 
improprieties  of  manner  and  language  which  be  imputed  to  bioi« 


184  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

The  countenance  which  was  given  to  Mr.  Wliitefield,  and  the 
astonishing  effects  resulting  from  his  labours,  not  only  created 
much  diversity  of  opinion  within  the  Established  Church,  but 
occassioned  violent  aissensions  in  private  life,  as  many  individuals 
still  living  can  attest. 

The  late  Dr.  Erskine,  minister  of  the  old  Greyfriars'  Church, 
was  still,  at  the  period  of  which  we  speak,  a  student  at  the 
University  of  Edinburgh,  and  was  one  of  those  who  zealously 
defended  the  character  of  Mr.  Whitefield.  He  felt  the  force  of 
his  powerful  and  popular  eloquence,  and  seems  to  have  had  a 
strong  impression  of  the  usefulness  and  efficacy  of  his  evan- 

felicai  doctrines.  Dr.  Robertson,  then  also  a  student  at  the 
Jniversity,  certainly  entertained  a  different  opinion,  both  of  his 
character,  which  they  did  not  at  that  time  consider  sufficiently 
established,  and  of  the  extraordinary  effects  imputed  to  his 
public  ministrations. 

Dr.  Robertson  and  Dr.  Erskine  had  been  associated  in  a 
literary  society,  in  the  University,  with  a  number  of  individuals 
who  became  afterwards  considerable  in  different  departments. 
Unfortunately,  the  question  of  Mr.  Whitefield's  character  and 
usefulness  was  introduced  into  their  debates ;  and,  calling  forth 
very  contrary  opinions,  was  agitated  with  so  much  zeal  and  as- 
perity, as  to  occasion  the  dissolution  of  their  society,  and  to 
intemipt  even  their  intercourse  in  private  life. 

The  clamour  excited  in  England,  before  this  time,  aminst 
the  progress  of  Methodism,  in  which  the  characters  of  Xady 
Huntingdon,  Mr.  Whitefield,  and  the  Wesleys,  were  treated 
with  equal  freedom  and  severity,  must  have  greatly  contributed 
to  heighten  the  prejudices  circulated  in  Scotland  against  Mr. 
Whiteneld,  and  the  respectability  or  success  of  his  labours. 
There  was  not,  indeed,  the  same  prejudice  in  Scotland,  as  in 
England,  against  field-preaching.  During  the  preceding  cen- 
tury the  persecuted  Presbyterians,  driven  from  their  churches, 
had  transmitted  to  their  descendants  a  partiality  for  religious 
assemblies  in  the  fields,  which,  although  no  longer  the  effect 
of  necessity,  continued  to  lie  in  very  general  practice,  as  often 
as  the  sacrament  of  the  Lord's  Supper  was  dispensed,  and  in 
some  districts  of  the  coimtry  are  not  even  at  this  aay  completely 
disused.  When  Mr.  Whitefield,  therefore,  appeared  m  the 
Orphan  Hospital  Park,  at  Edinburgh,  the  circumstance  of  his 
adaressing  tne  people  in  the  open  air  exhibited  no  novelty  to 

*  This  anecdote  shows  that  the  interest  taken  in  this  important  subject  was 
far  from  being  confined  to  the  vulgar,  and  that,  even  in  the  Universities,  it  was 
not  contemplated  with  indifference. 


SELINA)  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  185 

an  audience  who  were  far  too  numerous  to  have  been  contained 
in  any  church  of  the  city,  and  who  were  accustomed  to  field- 
preaching  in  almost  every  parish  of  the  country  in  which  they 
occasionally  resided. 

Some  of  the  most  distinguished  families  in  the  kingdom  were, 
as  often  as  the  opportunity  was  given  them,  his  constant  hearers ; 
and  were,  besides,  in  the  habit  of  admitting  him  to  their  private 
society ;  and  among  those,  in  particular,  was  a  nobleman,  who 
was  then  his  Majesty's  representative,  as  Lord  High  Commis- 
sioner, in  the  General  Assembly,  who  not  only  attended  his 
ministrations  and  invited  him  to  his  house,  but  who  introduced 
him  to  his  public  table,  during  the  session  of  Assembly. 

His  visits  to  Scotland  continued,  and  in  the  summer  of  1750 
we  find  him  at  the  hospitable  residence  of  Mr.  Nimmo,*  where 
he  was  most  kindly  received  during  his  then  stay  in  Edinburgh. 
Greater  multitudes  than  in  any  former  visits  flocked  to  hear 

*  James  Nimmo,  Esn.,  Receiver- General  of  Excise,  was  a  man  of  piety,  and 
connected  with  some  of  the  first  families  in  the  Scottish  peerage.  His  mother, 
the  Hon.  Mary  Erskine,  was  a  daughter  of  Henry,  Lora  Cardross,  and  a  near 
relation  to  Dr.  John  Erskine,  minister  of  the  old  Greyfriars*  Church  of  Edin- 
burgh, and  one  of  his  sisters  married  his  cousin,  David  Erskine,  Esq.,  son  of 
the  Hon.  Captain  William  Erskine,  Deputy- Governor  of  Blackness  Castle. 
Mr.  Nimmo  married,  in  1743,  Lady  Jane  Hume,  third  daughter  of  the  Earl  of 
Marchmont,  by  a  daughter  and  heiress  of  Sir  George  Campbell,  of  Cressnock, 
in  Ayrshire.  She  was  chiefly  brought  up  by  her  able,  prudent,  warm-hearted, 
and  affectionate  aunt,  Lady  Grizel  Baillie,  of  Jerviswood,  whose  conduct  and 
character,  as  portrayed  in  Rose*s  "  Observations  on  Fox,*'  it  is  impossible  to 
contemplate  without  admiration.  Soon  after  her  marriage  she  became  a  corre- 
spondent of  Lady  Huntingdon's,  and  maintained  an  intimate  friendship  with  her 
till  her  death,  in  1770,  in  the  62nd  year  of  her  a^e.  Her  Ladyship  was  sister  to 
the  Hon.  Hume  Campbell,  an  eminent  counsellor  in  London,  Solicitor  to  the 
Prince  of  Wales,  and  Lord  Clerk  ilegister  of  Scotland.  Her  eldest  brother, 
Hugh,  fourth  Earl  of  Marchmont,  became  eminent  for  learning  and  brilliancy 
of  genius.  The  estimation  in  which  his  Lordship  was  held  by  his  contempo- 
raries, may  be  judged  of  by  his  close  and  intimate  friendship  wiu  Lord  0)bham 
(who  gave  his  bust  a  place  in  the  Temple  of  Worthies,  at  Stow)  and  Sir  Wil- 
liam W3mdham,and  bv  the  mention  of  him  in  Pope's  well-known  inscription  in 
his  grotto  at  Twickenham—. 

*'  There  the  bright  flame  was  shot  through  Marchmont's  soul  r* 

He  was  one  of  the  executors  of  Pope,  also  of  Sarah,  Duchess  of  Marlborough, 
who  left  him  a  legacy  of  £2,500,  as  such.  With  Lady  Huntingdon,  Lord  March- 
mont and  Mr.  Hume  Campbell  Lived  on  very  intimate  terms,  and  the  latter  often 
aided  her  by  his  excellent  advice.  Lady  Jane  was  distinguished  by  a  sound  and 
cultivated  understanding ;  by  genuine  and  unostentatious  piety,  ^ded  by  great 
good  sense  and  discernment ;  bv  uniform  mildness,  and  equality  of  temper ; 
and  by  those  habitually  cheerful  and  affectionate  manners,  which  commanded 
the  esteem  and  respect  of  the  society  in  which  she  lived,  and  were  the  per- 
petual delight  of  her  own  family.  Her  eldest  sister.  Lady  Anne,  married  Sir 
William  Purvis,  Dart,  whose  grandson  assumed,  on  inheriting  the  estate  of  his 
maternal  ancestors,  the  additional  surname  of  *'  Hume  Campbell,*^  and  is  the 
present  representative  of  that  family;  the  Hon.  Alexander  Hume  Campbell  and 
Lord  Marchmont  having  died  without  surviYing  male  isfue; 


186  THE  LITE  AND  TIMES  OF 


hinii  and  earnestly  entreated  him  not  to  leave  them  soon. 
Though  burning  with  feyer,  and  much  indisposed  from  a  violent 
cold,  be  continued  to  preach  twice  a-day,  early  in  the  morning, 
and  at  six  in  the  evening.  ^<  Your  ladyship's  health  (says  he, 
in  a  letter  to  the  Countess,)  is  drank  and  mquired  after  every 
day.  Mr.  Nimmo,  who  married  Lord  Marchmont's  sister, 
has  given  me  three  franks,  and  his  family  are  in  the  number 
of  those  who  are  left  in  Sardis,  and  have  not  defiled  their 
garments.*' 

It  vras  during  this  visit  of  Mr.  Whitefield  to  Scotland  that 
Lady  Jane  Nimmo  wrote  the  following  letter  to  Lady  Hunt- 
ingdon:— 

^*  Madam, — Accept  my  thanks  for  your  very  obliginemeasaffe by  Mr. 
Whitefield ;  nnd  I  hope  to  avail  myself  of  your  kind  offer  the  nrst  time 
I  go  to  London  with  Mr.  Nimmo.  Yom*  very  acceptable  and  truly 
cmistian  letter  was  conveyed  to  me  by  my  brother^  and  I  ongbt  to 
have  answered  it  sooner,  had  not  some  family  occurrences  inteifered, 
which  obliged  me  to  leave  home  for  a  distaut  part  of  the  kingdom. 

^  Your  Ladysliip  will  rejoice  to  hear  that  greater  crowds  than  ever 
flock  to  bear  Mr.  ^¥bitefield.  The  energy  and  power  of  the  Gospel 
word  is  truly  remarkable,  and  such  as  to  cause  great  joy  and  thank- 
fulness among  Uie  people  of  God.  Dear  Lady  Frances  Gardiner  is 
very  active  in  bringing  people  to  bear  him,  to  some  of  whom  there  is 
reason  to  believe  the  word  bos  been  blessed.  There  is  a  great  awaken- 
iDff  among  all  classes.  Truth  is  great  and  will  prevail,  notwithstanding 
all  manner  of  evil  is  spoken  against  it.  The  fields  are  more  than 
white,  and  ready  unto  harvest,  in  Scotland.  Many  prayers  are  offered 
up  for  your  Ladyship,  and  many  bless  Qod  for  your  sending  your 
chaplain  to  these  parts.  The  infinitely  condescending  Redeemer 
vouchsafes  to  bless  your  labours  for  the  good  of  souls  in  England:  and 
Your  Ladyship  ^vill  shortly  have  mv  native  country  to  add  to  the  bril- 
liancy of  that  diadem  which  shall  aaorn  your  brow  in  the  great  day  of 
the  Lord.  I  blush  and  am  confouuded  when  I  think  to  what  htde 
purpose  I  have  lived.  It  is  time  now  to  begin  to  do  something  for 
Him  who  has  done  so  much  for  me,  and  suffered  so  much  for  my 
sinful  soul.  I  beg,  dear  madam,  you  will  pray  for  me  while  life  lasts. 
I  feel  under  manifold  obligations  to  your  Ladyship,  and  hope  to  spend 
an  eternity  widi  you  in  praising  that  grace  and  love  that  has  plucked 
us  as  brands  out  of  the  burning.  Mr.  Nimmo  begs  his  most  cordial 
salutations  to  you,  yours,  and  ali  who  love  our  dear  Lord  and  Saviour 
in  sincerity;  and^  wishing  vou  the  best  of  blessings,  I  subscribe  mysolfj 
my  dear  Madam,  your  Ladyship's  most  affectionately,  in  our  common 
Lord.  <«  J.  Nimmo. 

*«  August  9th.- 

In  one  of  Lady  Huntingdon's  letters  to  Mr.  Whitefield  she 
requests  him  to  mvite  the  correspondence  of  the  Rev.  Jaines 
Rooe,  minister  of  Kilsyth^   well  known  in  Scotland  for  his 


SELINAf  C0UKTXI8  OP  HUHTIKODON.  187 

zealous  exertions  in  the  cause  of  truthy  and  by  the  publication^ 
of  his  "  Narrative"  of  the  revival  of  religions  and  the  visible 
convulsive  agitations  which  accompanied  his  ministrations,  and 
those  of  the  parish  ministers  in  his  neighbourhood. 

Dr.  Gillies,  of  Glasgow,  Mr.  Adams,  of  Falkirk,  Mr.  Robe» 
of  Kilsyth,  Dr.  Webster,  of  Edinburgh,  and  Mr.  Wafdrobe,  of 
Bathgate,  were  men  of  great  piety,  and  of  more  liberality  of 
mind  than  was  commonly  found  among  the  Scotch  ministers  at 
the  time  of  which  we  are  writing.  They  cultivated  an  acquaint^ 
ance  with  the  Methodists,  and  frequently  invited  Mr.  White- 
field  and  Mr.  Wesley  to  visit  Scotland.  With  Lady  Huntingdon 
several  of  them  kept  up  a  constant  correspondence  for  many 
years,  particularly  Mr.  Wardrobe,  for  whom  her  Ladyship  had 
a  great  regard,  and  whom  she  often  called  her  zealous  Scotch 
chaplain.* 

It  was  about  this  time  that  Mr.  Hervey  commenced  his  inimi- 
table work  of  <^  Theron  and  Aspasio."  Of  the  amiable  and 
excellent  Hervey  it  may  be  truly  said,  that  few  lives  have  ever 
been  more  heavenly,  and  few  deaths  more  triumphant.  He 
died  in  the  Lord,  and  is  now  at  rest,  where  even  ^^  the  wicked 
cease  from  troubling."  His  name  is  recorded  in  the  annals  of 
eternity,  and  the  honours  conferred  on  him  by  Christ  will  for 
ever  continue  blooming  and  incorruptible  in  the  world  of  glory ; 
his  character,  both  in  his  public  and  private  capacity,  was  of 
the  most  exemplary  kind ;  his  writings  auord  a  lasting  and  indis- 
putable proof  of  his  grace  and  abilities ;  these  were  given  him 
for  the  use  of  the  Cnurch  of  God,  and  they  were  laid  out  for 
that  end.  His  style  has  been  much  admired :  it  must  be  owned 
that  there  is  much  of  brilliancv  and  floridness  in  all  his  compo- 
sitions :  but  persons  of  refined  taste  have  expressed  themselves 
much  less  satisfied  with  his  language  than  his  thoughts.  The 
nervous,  chaste,  and  manly  style  of  the  ancient  classics  he  cer- 
tainly has  not  copied;  but  rather  that  laboured  attention  to 
words  and  forms,  which  has  been  objected  to  in  Seneca,  Austin, 
and  others.  However,  this  is  but  of  small  importance,  com- 
pared with  the  heavenly  truths  he  delivered,  and  the  seraphic 
ardour  with  which  he  uttered  thenu  The  casket,  indeea,  is 
brilliant,  and  carefully  embellished ;  but  'tis  the  jewel  within 
that  gives  it  value. 

*  At  one  j>eriod,  when  Mr.  Wesley  wu  at  Newcastle*  he  rode  to  Hezhani, 
at  the  pressing  request  of  Mr.  Wardrobe  and  others.  He  preached  at  the  mar- 
ket-place to  a  multitude  of  people,  who  stared  at  him,  but  behaved  very  quietly. 
Mr.  Wardrobe  pleached  in  the  Methodist  Chapel,  at  Newcastle,  in  1755^  to  the 
no  small  amaaemoit  and  displeasure  of  some  of  his  sealoua  countrymen.  He 
died  in  1786,  and  a  very  interesting  aocouut  of  his  death  ham  been  preserved  in 
A  letter  £roiii  Blr*  Adfunii  of  FWkirk,  tp  Dr,  Gillies,  of  GUu^w< 


188  THE  LIFE  AMD  TIMES 

His  "  Theron  and  Aspasio"  has  proved  eminently  useful  to 
multitudeF,  and  it  still  continues  to  exhibit,  with  increasing  use- 
fulness, all  those  grand  doctrines  of  Christianity  which  are  of 
universal  concernment,  and  of  the  last  importance.  With  that 
humility  which  was  so  conspicuous  in  this  amiable  man,  we  find 
him  in  the  following  letter,  submitting  the  first  four  dialogues 
of  his  work  to  the  critical  inspection  of  Lady  Huntingdon  : — 

*'  Madam,— With  miitude  I  received,  and  with  inexpressible  de- 
light I  perused^  your  Ladyship's  very  kind  and  truly  Christian  letter. 
I  assure  you  I  esteem  such  epistles  to  be  favours  indeed.  May  I  be 
so  bold  08  to  beg  you  to  continue  them  ?  The  languor  of  my  consti- 
tution is  so  great,  and  the  failure  of  my  spurits  so  fre<|uent,  that  I  have 
not  boon  able  to  pay  the  indispensable  debt  of  gratitude  and  friend- 
ship due  to  my  correspondents ;  but  though  I  have  not  written  to  your 
Ladyship  as  frequently  os  I  ought,  I  have  taken  every  opportunity  to 
inquire  af\or  you.  Lady  Frances  Shirley  has  lately  given  me  some 
pleasing  instances  of  your  Ladyship's  usefulness  to  the  souls  of  your 
iellow-immortals.  may  your  words  be  'as  polished  shafts'  in  the 
victorious  Redeemer's  quiver,  ond  *  as  a  nail  fastened  in  a  sure  place !' 
May  the  seed  which  you  are  daily  sowing  in  various  parts  of  the  king- 
dom grow  and  prosper;  and  may  the  ground  before  you  be  like  the 
harvest  of  the  sixth  year  in  Israel-— doubly  fruitful. 

*^  Your  Ladysliip  is  pleased  to  express  a  wish  that  I  should  proceed 
without  delay  in  finishing  my  intended  work.  Be  assured  your  wishes, 
Madam,  have  all  the  force  of  a  command  with  me.  I  send  you  the 
first  four  dialogues,  beseeching  you  to  peruse  them,  not  with  the  par- 
tiality of  a  friend,  but  the  severity  of  a  critic.  The  like  request  I  have 
made  of  others,  and  have  received  their  friendly  corrections.  I  am 
deeply  sensible  of  my  own  deficiencies,  and  in  order,  therefore,  to 
render  my  work,  if  possible,  fit  for  public  view — ^meet  for  the  Masters 
nse— I  shall  feel  obliged  by  any  corrections  or  improvements  which 
your  pen  may  make.  Your  Ladyship  is  at  liberty  to  show  the  manu- 
script to  whom  you  please.  Your  remarks,  and  those  of  your  friends, 
may  supply  the  sterility  of  my  invention  and  the  poverty  of  my 
language. 

^  The  letter  of  my  honourable  friend.  Lady  Frances,  brought  me 
your  Ladyship's  message.  Most  gladly  will  I  lend  my  pulpit  to  any 
minister  whom  you  send ;  but  it  would  give  me  unspeakable  pleasure 
to  8ce«you  at  Weston.  0,  do  come,  and  diffuse  a  little  of  tnat  holy 
zeal  which  continually  bums  in  your  heart,  and  which,  I  trust,  will 
warm  the  hearts  of  multitudes.  May  your  Ladyship  be  made  the 
honoured  iustrument  of  training  up  many,  very  many,  for  a  life  of  dis- 
tinguished holiness  and  extensive  usefiuuoss  in  the  world  below,  and 
for  a  life  of  consummate  happiness  and  everlasting  glory  in  the  man- 
sions of  eternal  felicity  above ! 

**  My  good  friend  Mr.  Hartley  begs  me  to  present  his  respects  and 

christian  regards  to  your  Ladyship,  to  which  Dr.  Stonhouse  requests 

may  be  united.     The  latter  was  much  benefited  by  your  yery 

oablo  letter  to  him.    Once  more,  I  earnestly  beg  Uiat  you  will 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  189 

bestow  your  free  corrections  on  my  manuscript.  If  you  really  ap- 
prove what  I  have  sketched,  I  shall  be  encouraged  to  proceed  in  my 
work.  May  I  not  hope  for  the  honour  of  dedicating  it  to  your  Lady- 
ship ?  It  would  give  me  suigular  pleasure  to  have  any  work  of  my 
pen  patronised  by  the  Oountcss  of  Huntingdon. 

'^  Praying  that  the  Lord  Jesus  may  prosper  you  in  all  your  labours^ 
and  enable  you  to  pray  far  the  weakest  of  all  your  brethren,  I  remain. 
Madam,  in  great  weakness,  but  with  great  sincerity^  your  Ladyship's 
truly  affectionate  friend  and  %vilhng  servant^  for  Christ's  sake, 

**  Jambs  Hervby." 

Lady  Huntingdon,  entering  fully  into  the  design  of  Mr.  Her- 
vev's  work,  claimed  the  assistance  of  all  those  whom  she  con- 
sidered capable  of  suggesting  improvements  and  useful  hintsj 
and  transmitted  their  observations  to  the  author.  The  impu- 
tation of  Christ's  righteousness,  which  is  considered  very 
distinctly  and  copioasly  in  the  Dialogues  of  "Theron  and 
Aspasio,"  becoming  the  topic  of  conversation  at  her  Ladyship's, 
when  several  ministers  were  present,  the  late  Mr.  Hartley,* 
Rector  of  Winwick,  in  Northamptonshire,  objected  to  the  doc- 
trine, and  said  it  would  be  better  to  suppress  than  publish  the 
intended  work.  This  information  was  communicated  to  Mr. 
Hervey,  who,  in  a  letter  to  Mr.  Ryland,  of  Northampton, 
father  of  the  late  Dr.  Ryland,  of  Bristol,  thus  notices  the  cir- 
cumstance : — 

'*  My  good  friend  and  pious  brother  Hartley  has  just  published  a 
volume  of  sermons.  He  is  a  friend  to  the  righteousness  of  Christ ; 
but  80  far  as  it  is  formed  in  our  hearts,  he  does  not  like  the  doctrine 
of  imputed  righteousness :  and  said,  at  Lady  Huiitiu^aoii  s^  from  the 
sincerity  and  impartiality  of  his  zeal,  that  it  would  be  better  to  have 
my  intended  work  suppressed  than  published.  This  I  was  told  under 
the  rose ;  and  this  I  speak  only  inter  nos.  I  heartily  wish  my  brother 
Hartley's  sermons  may  be  accompanied  with  an  abundant  blessing,  and 
bring  much  honour  to  our  crucified  Lord." 

Lady  Huntingdon  as  will  appear  from  the  following  letter, 
dated  July  14,  1753,  declined  the  offered  dedication.  Mr. 
Hervey  says — 

^'  Madam, — Accept  my  thanks  for  taking  the  trouble  of  perusing  my 
very  imperfect  manuscript,  and  my  grateful  acknowledgments  for  the 
improving  touches  and  remarks  you  have  made,  as  well  as  for  those  of 
vour  highly  valuable  friends  and  acquaintances.  The  corrections  you 
have  done  me  the  honour  to  transmit  will  be  exceedingly  beneficial  to 

*  Besides  several  single  sermons,  and  the  volume  mentioned  by  Mr.  Herrey, 
Mr.  Hartley  published  a  treatise  on  the  Millennium,  under  the  title  of  *  Para- 
dise Restored,"  (1  vol  8vo. )  He  became  an  admirer  of  the  Baron  Swedenboig, 
and  translated  sevend  of  bis  works. 


iM  THfe  LIR  AND  TIMES  0» 

the  Work,  and  render  it  more  acceptable  to  the  public  in  general.  But 
I  confess  I  feel  disappointed  at  your  Ladyship's  declining  to  patronise 
the  ])ublic  attempt  of  my  pen  :  nevertheless^  your  observations  are  so 
sensible  and  just,  and  carry  with  them  so  much  weiglit,  that  I  cannot 
think  of  pressing  the  matter  on  your  attention,  further  thon  to  solicit 
your  prayers  for  the  success  of  the  undertaking,  and  for  the  unworthy 
author.  0  that  a  double  portion  of  the  divine  benediction  may  attend 
it  I^^that  it  may  be  made  instrumental  in  awakening  the  supine,  and 
directing  manv  to  take  shelter  in  our  divine  Mediator ! 

**  Your  Ladyship's  hint  relative  to  Lady  Frances  I  shall  cc  rtaiiily 
improve  without  delay.  I  rejoice  to  hear  that  the  Redeemer's  cause 
prospers.  0,  may  the  arm  of  the  Lord  be  revealed'  more  and  more 
amongst  us,  and  the  triumphs  of  free  erace  have  wider  spread  and 
freer  course  1  Ma^  your  bow  ever  abide  in  strength,  and  may  your 
ability  for  the  service  of  our  divine  Master  increase,  as  much  as  miuo 
decreases  I 

"  When  you  write  next  to  dear  Mr.  Whitefiold,  vour  Ladyship  will 
much  oblige  me  by  conveving  to  him  my  kindest  wishes  and  my  Chris- 
tian love.  I  shall  write  in  a  post  or  two  to  Lady  Frances.  The  mo- 
ment my  work  comes  from  the  press  I  must  beg  your  acccntancc  of  a 
few  copies  for  your  Ladyship  and  friends.  ContiAue  to  tiesccch  tlie 
Lord  Jesus  to  make  it  subservient  to  die  furtherance  of  his  cause, 
and  cease  not  to  pray  for  its  most  unworthy  author.  May  tlie  eye  of 
Omnipotence  be  your  guide  and  mine !  Your  obliged  friend  and 
servant^  for  Christ's  sake^ 

*'  Jambs  Hebvby." 

Few  religious  authors  met  with  more  acceptance  tlmn  Mr. 
Hervey,  and  few  have  met  with  more  opposition:*  his  "Theron 
and  Aspasio"  has  been  severely  censured.  This  is  the  more  sur- 
prising, as  it  contains  the  leading  truths  of  the  Gospel,  such  as 
they  were  formerly  maintained  by  all  the  Protestant  Churches, 
and  a  great  number  of  the  soundest  and  most  holy  divines ;  and, 
indeed,  is  chiefly  prized  by  the  most  judicious  and  evangelical 
friends  of  the  truth.  Among  many  othena,  the  late  evangelical 
Romaine  says,  "  Read  his  *  Theron  and  Aspasio,'  and  when  you 
are  thoroughly  convinced  that  *  Christ  is  the  end  of  the  law  for 
righteousness  to  every  one  that  believeth,*  and  can  say  with 
faith,  ^  In  the  Lord  have  I  righteousness  and  salvation/  then 
jour  mind  will  be  settled  in  peace  and  comfort,  and  you  will  be 
delivered  from  those  dangerous  errors  which  are  now  propagated 
concerning  the  righteousness  of  the  Lord  Jesus.  Thank  God 
for  the  masterly  defence  of  it  in  these  Dialogues.     In  them, 

•  Mr.  Hervey*8  work  occiire  in  Mr.  Bobn^s  *•  Catalogue  of  the  Library  of 
the  late  Rev.  aiid  learned  Dr.  Samuel  Parr,'*  with  the  followitig  remarkable 
flote  attached  to  the  volume—**  This  book  was  the  delight  of  Dr.  Parr,  when 
•  hor ;  tnd,  for  tome  time,  wtB  the  model  on  which  he  endtavouied  to  form 
a  style.** 


SELINA,  COtKT£SS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  19l 

Mr.  Hervey,  being  dead,  yet  speaketh  the  promise  of  the 
adorable  Redeemer,  and  clearly  proves  that  we  have  our  salva- 
tion through  his  righteousness."  Even  his  combatant,  Mr. 
Wesley,  owns,  that  in  it  most  of  the  grand  truths  of  Christianity 
are  explained  and  proved  with  great  strength  and  clearness. 

Lady  Fanny  Shirley  now  became  the  patroness  of  Mr.  Her- 
vey. The  lively  imagination,  solid  jud^ent,  correct  taste,  and 
luxuriance  of  style  displayed  in  his  writing,  soon  attracted  the 
cultivated  mind  of  her  Ladyship,  who  invariably  expressed  her- 
self hifi;hly  pleased  with  the  clear,  pleasant,  and  judicious  views 
of  divine  truth  which  he  exhibited  to  the  minds  of  his  readers. 
Her  name  has  been  immortalized  by  the  dedication  of  ^'  Thereon 
and  Aspasio"  to  her  Ladyship, — a  work  which,  for  nearly  A 
century,  has  wonderfully  contributed  to  the  diffusion  of  evan- 
gelical truth  in  Britain  and  elsewhere ;  and  we  fondly  hope  the 
saving  effects  of  the  principles  it  contains  may  be  still  more 
widely  extended  for  ages  to  come. 

Lady  Fanny,  having  perused  Lord  Bolingbroke*s  "Letters 
on  the  Study  and  Use  of  History,"  wrote  to  Mr.  Hervey,  asking 
his  opinion  concerning  his  Lordship's  remarks  on  Scripturu 
History.  Mr.  Hervey  immediately  procured  the  book,  ana  sub- 
mitted to  her  Ladyship's  judgment  tne  thoughts  which  occurred 
whilst  reading  it.  His  letter  was  addressed  to  Lady  Fannys 
whose  name,  though  it  would  have  graced  and  recommended 
his  performance,  he  was  not  allowed  to  mention.  Her  Ladyship's 
commands,  which  would  admit  of  no  excuse,  drew  the  remarks 
from  his  pen ;  and  her  desire,  which  with  him  always  had  the 
force  of  a  con^mand,  brought  them  to  the  press.  At  the  com- 
mencement of  his  "  Letter,"  he  assures  her  Ladyship  that, 
though  many  might  discuss  the  point  much  more  clearly  and 
satisfactorily  than  the  person  she  favoured  with  her  commands^ 
yet  no  one  could  think  it  a  greater  honour  to  receive,  or  a 
greater  pleasure  to  execute  them. 

Tlie  cross  of  Christ  was  the  doctrine  that  lay  nearest  the 
heart  of  this  good  man  ;  this,  in  all  its  tendencies  and  bearings, 
in  all  its  relations  to  the  honour  of  God  and  the  salvation  of  men, 
he  delighted  to  elucidate  in  every  diversity  or  form  of  words, 
and  on  this  he  dwelt  with  growing  zeal  and  ardour  to  the  close 
of  life.  It  was  the  subject  that  met  him  in  every  direction,  that 
beautified  and  adorned  every  other  topic,  that  lived  and  breathed 
in  all  his  preaching,  the  centre  point  of  all  his  sermons ;  in  re* 
ference  to,  and  in  dependence  upon  which,  other  subjects  were 
considered. 

His  manner  of  preaching  was  impressive;  indeed,  bethought 
his  message  written  on  Us  heart    He  spoke  of  the  guilt  of  sm, 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  193 

>vbo  were  the  members  of  this  Churchy  he  spake  in  an  humble  way  of 
himself,  as  being  an  unworthy  member  thereof.  And  now  having 
shown  what  was  meant  by  the  Church,  and  who  were  its  members,  he 
showed,  lastly,  from  the  words  he  had  read,  what  were  the  Church's 
privileges.  And  first,  Christ  loved  the  Church — secondly,  he  gave  him- 
self for  it — and  last,  to  crown  all,  he  would  present  it  to  himslf,  a 
glorious  Church,  not  having  spot  or  wrinkle,  or  any  such  thing.  Thus 
far  I  have  been  particular,  for  such  a  way  of  proceeding  in  the  Church 
of  England  seems  wonderful  to  me.  But  what  shall  we  say  ?  God  is  no 
respecter  of  persons,  neither  of  places.  Oh,  that  others  of  his  brethren, 
the  clergy,  may  go  and  do  likewise !  And  I  am  not  without  hope  that 
many  wl.  I  was  with  him,  a  little  afler  he  had  done  preaching,  and 
he  spake  of  two  more  of  the  clergy  who  are  coming  on  much  in  the 
same  way,  and  live  down  lower  in  the  country,  near  Daventry ;  and 
another  who  came  out  of  Huutingdonsliire  some  time  ago,  on  purpose 
to  see  him,  and  since  has  written  a  letter  to  him.  This  Mr.  Hervey 
expounds  every  Wednesday  night  at  the  same  church,  preaches  twice 
on  the  Sabbath-day,  catechizes  tue  childrcn,and  meets  some  people  on 
Tuesdays  and  Thursdays,  in  or  near  tlie  parish  where  his  father 
preached.* 

Though  long  I  am  persuaded  your  gratification  will  be  as  great  as 
mine  at  this  narration  of  his  proceedings  among  his  people.  The  fields 
are  ever3n¥here  ready  unto  harvest,  and  I  consider  it  right,  and  the 
bounden  duty  of  nunisters,  to  use  all  lawful  efibrts  for  the  GospeTs 
sake :  and  our  success  therein  will  at  once  declare  God's  voice  to  the 
land.  0,  how  little  do  we  do  for  Him  who  hath  done  so  much  for  us  ! 
May  we  be  continually  on  the  stretch  for  God — now  is  the  time.  Let  us 
use  all  possible  exertions  while  it  is  day,  for  the  night  oometh  when  no 
man  can  work.  Dear  Mr,  Rowlands  says,  '  The  Lord  gets  himself  the 
victory  in  a  wonderful  manner  in  Wales,  and  many  are  added  to  the 
Lord.     The  work  is  on  the  increase  everywhere.' 

''  And  now,  my  dear  friend,  your  remembering  me  before  the  throne 
of  grace  makes  me  prize  you  more  than  ever.  Continue  to  bear  me — 
my  poor,  vile,  and  worthless  self — and  all  my  wretched  performances 
for  Him,  when  you  approach  the  mercy-seat,  and  plead  powerfully  in 
my  behalf.     Oh !  I  need  it — 

'  Strengthen  thy  servant,  gracious  Lord, 
Subdue  her  sins  thro*  Jesu^s  blood. 
And  when  she  would  from  thee  depart, 
O  bind  her,  Jesus,  to  thy  heart. 

**  May  the  God  of  love  be  %vith  you  to  the  close  of  your  earthly 
career,  is  the  earnest  prayer  of  your  ever  faithful  and  affectionate 
friend,  "  S.  Huntingdon." 

About  this  time  Lady  Huntingdon  was  much  affected  on  ao 
count  of  the  death  of  the  Rev.  mr.  Steward,  a  valuable  minister^ 
who  began  to  be  popular  in  the  Church,  but  was  soon  called  to 

*  The  above  was  written  by  Mr.  Joseph  Smith,  some  time  a  preacher  in 
Mr.  Whitefield*8  Comiezioii,  and  addressed  to  the  late  Mr.  Edwaros,  of  WhitQ 
Chapel,  Leeds. 

VOL.  L- 


194  THS  LIFE  AKD  TIBfSS  OV 

his  everlasting  rest  Being  acquainted  with  some  members  of 
the  Huntingdon  familY>  he  was  invited  to  her  Ladyship's  house 
to  hear  Mr.  Whitefiela,  and  was  among  the  first  witnesses  to  the 
benediction  of  the  Spirit  of  God  upon  their  labours  of  love.* 

Mr.  Whitefield  was  deeply  affected  at  the  loss  of  this  excellent 
man,  whose  lustre  was  eclipsed  in  the  zenith  of  merited  popu- 
larity, and  whose  ministerial  career  was  interrupted  before  he 
had  well  attained  the  meridian  of  life.  **  Strange  (says  he, 
writing  to  Mr.  Charles  Wesley)  that  so  many  should  be  so  soon 
discharged,  and  we  continued  !  Eighteen  years  have  I  been 
waiting  for  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  God ;  but  I  find  we  are 
immortal  till  our  work  is  done.  O,  that  we  may  never  live  to  be 
ministered  unto,  but  to  minister !  Mr.  Seward  spoke  for  his 
Lord  as  lon^  as  he  could  speak  at  all.  He  had  no  clouds  nor 
darkness :  f  was  with  him  till  a  few  minutes  before  he  slept  in 
Jesus." 

The  summer  of  1754  Lady  Huntingdon  spent  at  Ashby- 
place,  where  she  was  visited  by  Mr.  Ingham,  who  preached  fr©» 
C|uently  during  his  stay.  She  also  went  to  Aberford  for  some 
time,  and  from  thence  repaired  to  London.  "  I  was  surprised 
(says  the  Countess  of  Hertford)  to  meet  Lady  Huntingdon  on 
the  road  last  Saturday  fortnight ;  she  was  on  her  way  to  London, 
but  her  coach  drove  by  so  fast  that  I  had  only  time  to  send 
Lomas  after  her  with  my  compliments :  she  seemed  to  me  to 
look  as  well  as  ever  I  saw  her." 

In  May,  1755,  Mr.  Whitefield  returned  to  England  from 
America,  and  on  his  arrival  in  London  was  disappointed  at 
finding  Lady  Huntingdon  had  gone  to  Ashby.  He  was,  how- 
ever, much  gratified  at  receiving  a  liberal  benefaction  from  her 
Ladyship  for  Bethesda,  and  delighted  by  the  intelligence  that 
80  many  had  been  «'  stirred  up  to  preach  a  crucified  Saviour" 
during  his  absence.  « Many  (says  Mr.  W.)  in  Oxford  are 
awakened  to  the  knowledge  of  the  truth,  and  I  have  heard  almost 
every  week  of  some  fresh  minister  or  another  that  seems  deter- 
mined to  know  nothing  but  Jesus  Christ,  and  him  crucified. 
This  excites  the  enmity  of  the  old  serpent,  which  disco\'ers  itselt 
in  various  shapes.  The  greatest  venom  is  spit  out  against  Mr. 
Romaine,  who,  having  been  reputed  a  great  scholar,  is  now 
looked  upon  and  treated  as  a  great  fool,  because  made  wise 
himself,  and  earnestly  desirous  that  others  also  should  be  made 
wise  to  eternal  salvation. 

He  was  himself  a  successful  preacher,  both  at  Lady  Huntingdon's  house, 
•  the  nobUity.  and  to  a  very  opposite  auditory  <>"Garlick-hiU  where  he 
itationed  for  soidc  time.  Among  bw  converU  wm  Mn.  Kent,  oi  Bdmoo- 
^venerable  sister  aged  1(H. 


SELINA,  CX)UNTE88  OF  HUNTtNODOl^.  l95 

On  the  1st  of  July,  Lady  Anne  Janueline  Hastings  was  re- 
moved to  her  eternal  rest«  after  a  short  illness,  in  the  65th 
year  of  her  age.  "  At  Bristol  (says  Mr.  Whitefield)  I  heard  of 
the  death  of  good  Lady  Anne,  and  was  glad  to  find  that  Miss 
Wheeler  bore  the  news  of  it  with  so  much  composure.  Alas  I 
how  many  have  your  Ladyship  lived  to  see  go  before  you ;  John 
Cennick  is  now  added  to  the  happy  number  of  those  who  are 
called  to  see  him  as  he  is.  I  do  not  envy,  but  I  want  to  folloif 
after  them." 


CHAPTER  XIL 

Restrospective  Glances — Georgia — tbe  Orphan  House— Whitefield  in  London 
— hJB  Ordination — the  Cleigy— Mr.  Broughton — Countess  of  Hertford — 
Breach  with  Wesley— Societies  for  the  Reformation  of  Manners — Methodist 
Societies — Tabernacle  commenced — its  History — Welsh  Preachers — Moor- 
fields — I^y  Preachers — Nobility  at  the  Tabernacle — Opposition  of  the  Dis- 
senters—Anecdote of  Dr.  Watts  and  Lady  Huntingdon-^^Moravians — Sir 
Thomas  and  Lady  Abney — Tabernacle  opened — Long.  Acre  Chapel — the 
Hon.  Hume  Campbell — Tottenham- Court  Chapel  opened— Ned  Shutcr — 
Foote,  the  PUiyer^the  Minor — Lord  Halifax — Duke  of  Grafton.-.Mr.  Fox 
Mr.  Pitt— Mr.  Rowland  Hill— Captain  Joss^Mr.  Matthew  Wilks— Mr, 
Knight— Mr.  Hyatt— Mr.  Whitefield^s  WiU— Dr.  Ford— Mr.  Berridge  and 
Lady  Himtingdon. 

It  may  be  well,  at  this  point  of  our  history,  to  pause  and  take 
a  retrospective  glance  at  the  progress  of  Methodism.  In  1706 
Mr.  Whitefield  preached  his  first  sermon  at  Gloucester,  nnd  he 
continued,  with  zeal  and  energy  unparalleled,  and  with  extra- 
ordinary eloquence,  to  preach  the  Gospel.  After  the  Society 
broke  up  at  Oxford,  he  came  to  London,  and,  in  spite  of  his 
boyish  appearance,  and  the  sneers  it  excited,  succeeded  in  fixing 
deep  and  serious  attention,  by  his  first  sermon* preached  at 
Bishopsgate  church.  On  his  second  visit  to  London  crowds  of 
hearers  climbed  the  leads  and  hung  on  the  rails  of  the  churches, 
while  multitudes  were  willing,  but  unable,  to  get  near  enough  to 
hear.  These  scenes  were  new  to  the  Church  of  England,  which 
had  not  been  troubled  with  the  excessive  popularity  of  its 
preachers  since  the  days  of  Baxter,  Vincent,  ana  the  ruritans. 
The  managers  of  churches  of  which  the  coffers  were  exhausted 
applied  to  Mr.  Whitefield,  who  preached  four  times  on  each  Lord's 
day,  and  often  nine  times  in  the  week,  administering  the  Sacra- 
ment before  day-break  in  the  morning,  and  thus  rousing  thou- 
sands to  a  state  of  solicitude  for  their  eternal  happiness.    He 

o  a 


Id6  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMtS  OF 

then  went  to  Georgia,  and  on  his  return  he  was  received  with 
coldness  by  the  clergy,  but  with  extreme  enthusiasm  by  the 
people.  He  came  to  England  to  receive  priest's  orders  and  to 
collect  for  the  Orphan  House.*  He  preached  where  he  could, 
but  many  of  the  pulpits  were  now  closed  against  him  as  the  apostle 
of  a  new  sect,  and  the  Bishop  of  London  (Dr.  Edmond  Gibson) 
thought  it  necessary  to  write  a  pastoral  letter  warning  the  people 
of  his  diocese  against  the  Methodists.f  Nevertheless  he  ac- 
cepted Mr.  Whiteficld's  title,  and  gave  him  letters  dimissory  to 
the  Bishop  of  Oxford  (Dr.  Seeker,) who  in  turn  gave  him  simi- 
lar letters  to  the  Bishop  of  Gloucester  (Dr.  Benson,)  in  virtue 
of  which  he  was  ordained  at  Oxford,  in  accordance  with  his  own 

I)reviously  recorded  prayer  to  God,  that  the  same  excellent  pre- 
ate  at  whose  hands  he  had  been  ordained  deacon,  might  make 
him  a  priest.  The  good  Bishop  in  a  letter  to  his  pupil,  Lord 
Huntingdon,  gives  an  account  of  Mr.  Whitefield's  ordination, 
expressing  his  nope  that  the  act  **will  give  some  satisfaction  to 
my  Lady,  and  that  she  will  not  have  occasion  to  find  fault  with 
your  Lordship's  old  tutor.  Though  mistaken  on  some  points, 
I  think  him  (Mr.  Whitefield)  a  very  pious,  well-meaning  young 
man,  with  good  abilities  and  great  zeal.  I  find  his  Grace  of 
Canterbury  thinks  highly  of  him.  I  pray  God  grant  him  great 
success  in  all  his  undertakings  for  the  good  of  mankind,  and 
the  revival  of  true  religion  ana  holiness  among  us  in  these  dege- 
nerate days ;  in  which  prayer,  I  am  sure  your  Lordship  and  my 
kind  good  Lady  Huntingdon  will  most  heartily  join." 

Mr.  Whitefield  returned  from  Oxford  to  London,  and  the  op- 
position to  his  preaching  was  increased  by  his  expounding  in 
societies  and  reading  and  praying  in  private  houses,  for  ioining 
in  which  several  of  the  ministers  threatened  their  parishioners 
with  prosecution.:^ 

*  The  trustees  of  the  colony  of  Georgia  made  him  rector  of  Savannah,  and 
granted  him  500  acres  of  land,  whereon  to  erect  an  Orphan  House.  To  endow 
this  institution  he  sought  friends  in  England. 

f  The  bishop,  who  was  a  correspondent  of  Dr.  Watts,  and  who  remonstrated 
kindly  with  Mr.  John  and  Mr.  Charles  Wesley,  when  complaints  were  made  to 
him  against  them,  often  expressed  his  zeal  tor  the  interest  of  religion,  as  well 
among  the  Dissenters  as  within  the  Church.  His  dislike  to  masquerades  of* 
fended  the  Court  and  stopped  his  preferment.  He  died  in  1748.  His  daughter 
married  Dr.  Tyrwhitt,  Residentiary  of  St  Paul's,  Canon  of  Windsor,  Archdea- 
con of  London,  and  Rector  of  St.  James's — a  pluralist  indeed  I  This  gentleman 
had  a  son,  Mr.  Tyrwhitt,  who  resigned  a  fellowship  at  Cambridge,  and  all  his 
bright  prospects,  rather  than  subscribe  to  the  Articles  of  the  Church  of  England : 
he  xvas  one  of  the  Feathers'  Tavern  Divines,  who,  under  the  pretence  of  relief 
from  subscription,  set  forth  an  opposition  to  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity. 


e  my  pulp 
id  insist  and  Mr.  Broughton  lost  bis  lectoresbip. 


8ELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  197 

The  celebrated  Countess  of  Hertford,  afterwards  Duchess  of 
Somerset,  in  a  letter  to  the  Countess  of  Pomfret,  then  on  the 
continent,  observes  on  this  part  of  our  history — 

'*  I  do  not  know  whether  you  have  heard  of  our  new  sect,  who  call 
themselves  Methodists.     There  is  one  Whitcfield  at  the  head  of  them, 
a  young  man  under  five-and- twenty,  who  has  for  some  montlis  gone 
about  preaching  in  the  fields  and  market-places  in  the  country,  and  in 
London  at  May-fair  and  Moorfields,  to  ten  or  twelve  thousand  people 
at  a  time.     He  went  to  Georgia  with  General  Oglethorpe,  and  returned 
to  take  priest's  ortlers,  which  he  did ;  and  I  believe,  since  that  time, 
liardly  a  day  has  passed  that  he  has  not  preached,  and  generally  twice. 
At  first  he  and  some  of  his  brethren  seemed  only  to  aim  at  restoring 
the  practice  of  the  primitive  Christians  as  to  daily  sacraments,  stated 
fasts,  frequent  prayers,  relieving  prisoners,  visiting  the  sick,  and  giving 
alms  to  the  poor  :  but,  upon  sound  mmistcrs  refusing  these  men  their 
pulpits,  they  have  betaken  themselves  to  preaching  in  the  fields;  and  they 
have  such  crowds  of  followers  that  they  have  set  in  a  flame  all  the  clergy 
in  the  kingdom,  who  represent  them  as  hypocrites  and  enthusiasts.    As 
to  the  latter  epithet,  some  passages  in  Mr.  Whitefield's  latest  journals 
seem  to  countenance  the  accusation ;  but  I  think  their  manner  of  living 
has  not  afforded  any  grounds  to  suspect  them  of  hypocrisy.     The 
Bishop  of  London,  however,  has  thought  it  necessary  to  write  a  pastoral 
letter,  to  warn  the  people  of  his  diocese  against  being  led  away  by  them; 
though  at  the  same  time  he  treats  them  personally  with  ffreat  tender- 
ness and  moderation.     I  cannot  say  Dr.  Trapp  has  done  the  same  in  a 
sermon  which  he  has  published,  entitled,   <  The   great  Folly  and 
Danger  of  being  Righteous  over-much  ;**  a  doctrine  which  does  not 
seem  absolutely  necessary  to  be  preached  to  the  people  of  the  pre- 
sent age." 

Now  came  the  breach  between  the  great  Methodist  leaders. 
While  Mr.  Wesley  was  preaching  in  favour  of  perfection,  and 
against  election,  Mr.  Whitefield,  whose  Calvinistic  doctrines  were 
confirmed  and  enlightened  by  the  descendants  of  the  Puritans 
in  America,  wrote  his  letters  against  "The  Whole  Duty  of 
Man,"  and  "  Archbishop  Tillotson."  Mr.  Charles  Wesley,  who 
was  more  kind  and  generous,  less  positive  and  hostile  to  Cal- 
vinism than  his  brother,  wept  and  prayed  that  the  breach  miffht 
be  prevented ;  but  John  Wesley  seems  to  have  parted  with  nis 
old  companion  with  great  coolness.  Mr.  Whitefield  is  said  to 
have  tola  him,  "  You  and  I  preach  a  different  Gospel  :'*  then 
they  turned  one  to  the  right  hand,  and  the  other  to  the  left. 

*  Both  the  Bishop  of  London  and  Dr.  Trapp  were  answered  by  Mr.  White.     / 
field,  whose  pamphlets  were  purchased  with  the  greatest  avidity.     His  portrait  y 
was  multiplied  bv  various  competitors ;  and  his  journals  were  eagerly  con- 
tended for  Dv  rival  publishers.     The  Bishop,  in  a  personal  interview,  charged 
the  **  Journab**  with  enthusiasm,    Mr.  Whitefield  replied  that  they  were  written 
for  himself  and  private  friends,  and  were  published  without  his  consent. 


198  THE  urm  aitd  times  of 

Mr.  Whitc6eld  was  only  once  allowed  to  preach  in  the  Foaodnr ; 
and  <^  at  Bristol  (he  says)  I  was  forbidden  to  preach  in  the  house 
I  had  founded." 

Mr.  Cennick,  with  others  of  the  first  labourers  in  the  cause 
of  Methodism,  having  adopted  Mr.  Whitofield*s  views,  joined  with 
him  at  Bristol,  and  assisted  him  to  build  another  place  at  Kings- 
wood,  near  that  of  which  Mr.  Wesley  kept  possession ;  so  that  a 
congregation  was  established  there  on  Calvinistic  principles ;  and 
the  colliers,  who,  before  Mr.  Whitefield  introduced  the  Grospel 
among  them,  were  a  race  of  semi-barbarians,  now  worship  God 
with  constant  delight  and  serious  attention,  displaying  to  con- 
viction the  power  of  the  Gospel  on  the  rudest  oi  the  human 
race. 

^<  Calvin  (says  Beza,  in  his  Life  of  that  Reformer)  is  turned 
out  of  Geneva,  but  behold  a  new  church  rises !"  These  words 
animated  Mr.  Whitefield;  the  clergy  of  the  Establishment  were 
now  more  angry  with  him  than  ever,  for  avowing  the  sentiments 
of  Calvin,  he  therefore  sought  a  substitute  for  the  parochial 
pulpits;  and  societies*  were  formed  in  Beech-lane,  Crooked- 
lane,  Redcross-street,  Southwark,  the  Minories,  Wapping,  Dow- 
fate-hill,  Cnitched-friars,  and  various  parts  of  the  metropolis, 
f any  of  the  Calvinistic  Dissenters,  who  perceived  in  his  preach- 
ing tne  savour  of  their  popular  commentator,  Matthew  Henry, 
whoso  creed  was  the  catechism  composed  by  the  Westminster 
Assembly  of  Divines,  stood  firmly  by  him  in  this  time  of  trial ; 
they  procured  a  piece  of  ground  in  Moorfields,  and  erected 
a  temporary  shed  to  screen  the  auditory  from  cold  and  rain 
at  their  meetings  early  in  the  morning.  This  place  was  called 
a  Tabernacle,  m  allusion  to  the  moveable  tent  constructed  by 
divine  direction,  for  the  devotions  of  the  Israelites,  while  they 
were  travelling  in  the  wilderness.  It  was  opened  in  June,  I74If 
but  Mr.  Whitefield  did  not  like  the  site,  because,  being  near 
the  Foimdry,  where  Mr.  Wesley  was  preaching,  it  had  the  ap- 

Eearance  of  one  altar  set  up  against  another.  Great  success, 
owever,  followed  his  exertions  nere ;  and,  having  obtained  the 
aid  of  Messrs.  Cennickf  Adams,  Jenkins,  Smith,  Stevens,  Ing- 
ham, Reynolds,  Edwards,  Kelly,  Middloton,  Sea^^rave,  Hum- 
phries, Godwin,  Howel  Harris,  and  the  Rev.  Daniel  Rowlands, 
a  beneBced  clergyman,  the  congregations  were  kept  up  by 
variety,  incrcasea  by  novelty,  and  powerfully  affected  by  the 

*  T^  Societies  Jbr  the  Refbrmation  ofMatmen^  which  had  been  the  soul  of  th« 
establishment,  and  hod  asHivtcd  Mr.  Wliitcfield  in  various  plans  of  great  utility, 
now  turned  against  him,  and  the  new  societies  were  founded  with  a  view  to 
something  more  than  the  Reformation  of  Manners,  **  Societies**  and  "  congre- 
gations** becmne  ne«rly  synonyinous  terms. 


SELINAi  COUNTESS  OF   HUNTINGDON.  199 

"Welsh  fire"  which  was  displayed  in  the  animated  addresses  of 
these  Cambrian  brethren.  Mr.  Whitefield  was  thus  enabled  to 
be  present  at  many  other  places  where  the  Lord  called,  and  new 
scenes  of  usefulness  arose. 

It  was  now  that  he  made  his  grand  assault  on  that  "  vanity 
fair,"  which  on  holidays  had  assembled  in  Moorfields  all  the 
*  booths  and  shows  of  Smithfield  on  St.  Bartholomew's  day.  The 
idea  of  preaching  to  the  mob  of  idlers  thus  collected  was  by 
many  considered  wildly  quixotic ;  but  we  may  quote  his  own 
words,  to  prove  that  his  efforts  were  not  vain.  "  Soon  after 
three  hundred  and  fifty  awakened  souls  were  received  into  the 
society  in  one  day  !  and  numbers  that  seemed,  as  it  were,  to 
have  been  bred  up  for  Tyburn,  were,  at  that  time,  plucked  as 
brands  out  of  the  burning."  -^ 

But  not  alone  the  lowly  and  the  miserable,  even  the  great  and 
wealthv  were  among  the  congregation  at  the  TabemacTe. 

In  the  winter  of  174t2  the  JBarl  and  Countess  of  Huntingdon 
were  constant  in  their  attendance,  and  were  often  accompanied 
by  his  Lordship's  sisters,  the  Ladies  Hastings,  and  occasionally 
by  Sarah,  Duclicss  of  Marlborough,  and  Catherine,  Duchess  of 
Buckingham,  two  of  the  most  celebrated  and  remarkable  women 
of  their  diiy ;  also  by  Lord  Lonsdale*  and  others.f 

While  the  noble  and  the  lowly  heard  with  equal  reverence 
the  preaching  of  the  first  Methodists,  the  leading  Dissenters 

*  Heniy,  third  Viscount  Lonsdale,  was  a  peat  patriot,  and  had  heen  one  of 
the  Lords  of  the  Bed-chamber,  Constable  of  the  Tower,  Lord  Priv^  Seal,  aad 
Gustos  Rotulorum  for  Westmorland.  His  Lordship  was  very  intimate  with 
Lady  Huntingdon,  and  used  to  attend  the  preaching  at  her  nouse.  He  died 
March  12,  1759. 

f  Among  these  *<  othera  **  were  William  Augustus,  Duke  of  Cumberland, 
youngest  son  of  George  XL,  and  his  brother  Fk^derick,  Prince  of  Wales : 
Charles,  third  Duke  of  Bolton,  who  had  been  thirty-eight  years  married  to  the 
Lady  Anne  Vaughan,  daughter  and  sole  heir  to  the  Earl  of  Carbery,  but  from 
some  unaccountable'  cause  never  lived  with  her,  and  who  was  afterwards 
married  to  the  well-known  actress,  Mrs.  Lavinia  Beswick*  [two  of  his  illegi-. 
timate  issue  were  clergymen,  one  rector  of  Itchen,  Hants,  and  the  other  rector  of 
Stoke,  near  Alresford,  Hants ;]  the  celebrated  Lord  Hervey,  who  was  so  lashed 
by  Pope,  possessed,  however,  more  than  ordinary  abilities,  and  much  dassiosl 
erudition ;  and  who,  for  his  political  abilities,  was  raised  to  the  post  of  Lord 
Privy  S€»l :  [three  of  his  Lordship's  sons  were  successively  Earis  of  Bristol, 
and  bis  second  daughter,  the  excellent  Lady  Biarv  Fitzgerald,  the  correspondent 
of  Lady  Huntingdon,  Mr.  Wesley,  Mr.  Fletcher,  Mr.  Venn,  &c.  |1— Lord  Sidney 
Beauderk,  fifth  son  of  the  Duke  of  St  Alban*8,  styled  by  Sir  Cnaries  Hanbury 
ll^^iams  **  Worthless  Sidney,**  notorious  for  huntinff  after  the  fortunes  of  tM 
old  and  childless;  Lady  Betty  Germain,  in  her  old  age,  was  only  dissuaded 
from  marrying  him  by  the  Duke  of  Dorset  and  her  relations :  he  uiled  in  ob» 
taining  the  fortune  or  Sir  Thomas  Reeve,  Chief  Justice  of  the  Common  Pleas, 
but  succeeded  in  inducing  Mr.  Topham,  of  Windsor,  to  leave  his  estate  to  him ; 
he  married  a  Bliss  Norris,  and  left  a  son,  Topham  Beauclerk,  whose  letters  and 
oUier  literaireffofts  are  well  known,  and  who  married  Lidy  Diana  Spenoert 
abter  to  tlie  Dtdce  of  Biadboroagh. 


200  THE  LIYE  AND  TIMU  OF 

contemplated  their  proceedings  with  feelings  of  disgust  and 
suspicion.  The  Rev.  Risdon  Darracott  (mini<^ter  of  Wellington), 
and  the  Rev.  Benjamin  Fawcett  (minister  of  Kidderminster),  as 
well  as  Mr.  Doddridge,  were  exceptions ;  but  their  reception  of 
Mr.  Whitefield,  and  their  preaching  at  the  Tabernacle,  exposed 
them  to  the  censure  of  their  metropolitan  brethren.*  Even  the 
amiable  Dr.  Watts  was  disposed,  from  the  reports  made  to  him, 
to  judge  unkindly  of  his  friend  :  "  I  am  sorry  (says  the  Doctor) 
that  smce  your  departure  I  have  had  many  questions  asked 
me  about  vour  preaching  in  the  Tabernacle,  and  sinking  the 
character  of  a  minister,  and  especially  of  a  tutor,  among  the 
Dissenters,  so  low  thereby.  I  find  many  of  our  friends  enter- 
tain this  idea ;  but  I  can  give  no  answer,  as  not  knowing  how 
much  you  have  been  en^iged  there.  I  pray  God  to  guard  us 
from  every  temptation  V  This  amiable  man,  however,  took  no 
part  in  the  very  warm  censures  of  his  non-conformist  brethren ; 
and  very  soon  after  became  the  intimate  friend  of  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon and  the  great  leaders  of  the  Methodist  body,  for  each 
of  whom  he  entertained  the  highest  respect  and  esteem.f 
During  Mr.  Whitefield's  absence  in  America,  Mr.  Harris  chiefly 
conducted  the  affairs  of  the  Tabernacle.  On  some  difference 
with  the  latter  gentleman,  Mr.  Cennick  quitted  the  Connexion, 
and  went  over  to  the  Moravians,  a  circumstance  which  Lady 
Huntingdon  vainly  struggled  to  prevent. 

On  Mr.  Whitefield's  return  from  America  he  found  his  con- 

•  See  the  "  Diary  and  CorresDondence  "  of  Dr.  Doddridge.  The  letter  of 
Nathaniel  Neale,  Esq.,  whose  father  was  the  historian  of  the  Puritans,  desenres 
particular  attention,  for  the  severity  and  bitterness  of  its  style.  The  Christian 
8imi)licitv  and  gentle  firmness  displayed  in  the  Doctor's  able  and  manly  defence 
of  himself  and  his  pupils  from  the  aspersions  of  their  assailants,  reflect  the 
highest  honour  on  his  cnaracter. 

t  On  one  occasion,  Dr.  Doddridge  being  in  London,  he  was  invited  with 
Lady  Huntingdon  to  dine  at  Stoke  Newington,  at  the  house  of  Lady  Abney, 
with  whom  Watts  was  resident.     Lady  Frances  Gardiner,  Dr.  Gifford,  Dr. 
Gibbons,  the  Rev.  Samuel  Price,  Watts*s  colleague,  and  Dr.  Lansford,  pastor 
of  the  chhrch  at  the  Weigh  House,  were  present.     Lady  Abney  having  men- 
tioned the  influence  which  appeared  to  attend  the  preaching  of  Messrs.  Wesley 
and  Whitefield,  Dr.  Watts  said,  it  is  a  blessing  of  incalculable  value  that  such 
men  should  have  been  raised  up  as  ambassadors  of  Christ,  to  make  known  the 
great  salvation  to  the  minds  of  men.     Lady  Huntingdon  instanced  several  re- 
markable eflTects  of  their  powerful  preaching,  and  the  Doctor  (Watts)  added, 
"  Such,  my  lady,  are  the  fruits  that  \vill  ever  follow  the  faithful  proclamation 
of  divine  mercy ;  the  Lord  our  God  will  crown  his  message  with  success,  and 
^  it  an  abundant  entrance  into  the  hearts  of  men."    At  parting  he  took  the 
itcss  most  affectionately  by  the  hand,  pronounced  a  paternal  benediction, 
''oncluded  with  a  memorable  remark  on  his  approacbmg  dissolution  :— "  I 
3od  (he'  said)  that  I  can  lie  down  to  sleep  in  comfort,  no  way  solicitous 
er  I  awake  in  this  world  or  another.'* 

«en  on  his  death.bed«  Dr.  Watts  was  visited  by  Mr.  Whitefield,  to  whom 

scribed  himself  as  a  "  waiting  servant  of  Christ."   Mr.  Whitefield  assisted 

*^  him  to  receive  some  medicine,  and  would  doubtless  have  prolonged 


8ELINA,  C0UKTE8S  OF  HUKTINGBON.  201 

gregation  much  scattered.  "  Matters  (says  he)  were  in  great 
confusion  by  reason  of  Mr.  Cennick  going  over  to  the  Mora- 
vians ;  but,  blessed  be  God,  we  are  now  easy  at  the  Tabernacle, 
and  the  word  falls  with  might  and  power."  About  the  same 
period  there  were  similar  divisions  in  Dr.  Doddridge's  congre- 
gation, at  Northampton,  of  which  frequent  mention  is  made  in 
his  correspondence  with  Lady  Huntingdon  and  Mr.  Whitefield. 
The  latter,  in  his  reply  to  the  Doctor,  thus  very  feelingly  notices 
the  conduct  of  the  Brethren : — 

*^  I  thank  you,  dear  Sir,  for  your  solemn  charge  in  respect  to  my 
health.  But  what  shall  I  say  concerning  your  present  trial  ?  Shall  I 
wish  you  joy  ?  Surely  I  may  with  great  propnety,  since  an  inspired 
writer  hath  said,  ^  Count  it  all  joy  when  you  fall  into  divers  temptations.' 
But,  at  the  same  time^  I  most  earnestly  83mipathize  with  you,  having 
had  the  same  trial  from  the  same  quarter  long  ago.  The  Moravians 
first  divided  my  family,  then  my  parish  at  Georgia,  and  afler  that  the 
societies  which,  under  Ood,  I  was  an  instrument  of  gathering.  I  sup- 
pose not  less  than  ^ur  At^m/ret/,  through  their  practices,  have  leflt  the 
Tabernacle.  All  this  I  find  but  little  enough  to  teach  me  to  ceaso  from 
man,  and  to  wean  me  from  that  great  fondness  which  spiritual  fathers 
are  apt  to  have  for  their  spiritual  children.  Thus  blessed  Paul  was 
served — ^thus  must  all  expect  to  be  treated  who  are  of  Paul's  spirit,  and 
arc  honoured  with  any  degree  of  Paul's  success.  Our  Lora  blessed 
you  in  your  writings ;  nay,  your  people's  treating  you  as  they  are  now 
permitted  to  do,  perhaps,  is  one  of  the  greatest  blessings  you  ever  re- 
ceived from  heaven.  May  patience  have  its  perfect  work,  and  may 
you  be  enabled  to  sanctify  the  Lord  God  in  your  heart !  I  know  of 
no  other  way  of  dealing  with  the  Moravians  than  to  go  on  preaching 
the  truth  as  it  is  in  Jesus,  and  rest  upon  that  promise,  '  Every  plant 
which  my  heavenly  Father  hath  not  planted  shaU  be  plucked  up.* 
Doubtless  there  are  many  of  God's  children  in  the  Moravian  flock ;  but 
many  of  their  principles  and  practices  are  decidedly  wrong,  for  which, 
I  doubt  not,  our  Lora  will  rebuke  them  in  his  own  time.     I  thank  you 

his  visit  could  he  have  foreseen  that  hit  venerable  friend  was  then  within  half 
an  hour  of  glory 

The  Doctor  died  at  Stoke  Newington,  in  the  house  of  Lady  Abney.  **  Yon 
have  arrived  on  an  extraordinary  dav  (said  he  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  on  one  of 
her  visits),  for  on  this  day  SO  years  I  came  to  the  house  of  mv  good  friend  Sir 
Thomas  Abney,  intending  to  spend  but  a  single  week  under  nis  friendly  roof, 
and  I  have  extended  my  visit  to  the  length  of  90  years.**  **  I  consider  your 
visit,  my  dear  Sir  (said  Lady  Abney,)  as  the  shortest  my  family  ever  received.** 
*'  A  coalition  like  this  (says  Dr.  Johnson),  a  state  in  which  the  notions  of 
patronage  and  dependence  were  overpowered  by  the  perception  of  reciprocal 
benefit^  deserves  a  particular  memonal.** 

Sir  Thomas  Abney  was  Lord  Mayor  of  London,  but  his  dignities  did  not 
seduce  his  heart  from  the  duties  of  the  unfashionable  rdision  he  had  chosen ; 
on  the  very  day  of  his  inauguration  he  left  the  mayoralty  feast  to  read  prayers 
in  his  own  family.  He  died  eight  years  after  Watts  had  accepted  a  home  in  his 
house  (on  the  6th  Feb.  1722J^  Ladv  Abnev  died  one  year  after  Watts  (Jan.  12% 
1750).    Wattf  wu  resident  in  this  hospitaole  mansion  86  years. 


2(h2  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

for  your  scmion.  It  contains  the  very  life  of  preaching — I  mean  sweet 
invitations  to  close  with  Christ.  I  do  not  wonder  you  are  duhhed  a 
Methodist  on  account  of  it  Last  Sunday  evening  I  preached  to  a  most 
brilliant  assemhly  indeed.  They  expressed  great  approbation,  and  some 
I  think  begin  to  feel.  Oood  Lady  Huntingdon  is  indeed  a  mother  in 
Israel.  She  is  all  in  a  flame  for  Jesus.  You  may  guess  by  a  word  or 
two  in  this  that  she  hath  shown  me  your  last  letter.  I  suppose  she 
will  write  to  you  soon." 

Shortly  after  Mr.  Whitefield's  return  to  England,  matters 
assumed  a  different  appearance  at  the  Tabernacle,  and  he 
now  began  to  think  of  erecting  a  more  spacious  edifice,  which 
his  enlarged  soul  and  mighty  powers  of  elocution  filled  for 
many  years  after.  In  the  summer  of  1751,  Mr.  Whitefield, 
being  at  Lady  Huntingdon's  residence  at  Ashby-de-la-Zouch, 
in  Leicestershire,  the  building  of  the  Tabernacle  was  first  dis- 
cussed, in  presence  of  Mr.  Hervey,  Mr.  Hartley,  Dr.  Doddridge, 
and  Dr.  Stonhouse.  The  design  seems  to  have  originated  unth 
her  Ladyship^  who  was  exceedingly  zealous  in  the  cause,  and 
who  had  already  given  largely  towards  the  Tabernacle  at  Kings- 
wood — 

'*  I  am  much  interested  (says  her  Ladyship)  about  ihe  intended 
building,  and  trust  it  will  be  for  the  glory  of  our  conunon  Lord,  and 
the  increase  of  his  kingdom  among  men.  0,  that  very  many  pre- 
cious souls  may  be  there  awakened,  renewed,  pardoned,  and  consecrated 
to  God !  Mr.  Hervey,  Mr.  Hartley,  Dr.  Doddridge,  and  Dr.  Ston- 
house aro  most  cordial  in  their  approval  and  promise  of  support 
May  the  hearts  of  the  people  of  Ood  be  opened  to  contribute  for  this 
most  desirable  object  I  If  our  eye  be  sinele,  and  his  glory  and  the 
salvation  of  souls  our  only  end  in  view,  all  will  be  welL  To  him  I 
commit  this  cause,  and  my  poor  prayers  shall  be  daily  offered  for  a 
blessing  to  rest  upon  it." 

How  unspeakably  great  and  precious  hath  been  the  answer  to 
these  prayers  ! 

In  the  winter  of  1752  the  subject  was  again  renewed  at  Ladv 
Frances  Shirley's  residence  in  South  Audley-street,  in  the  month 
of  November ;  and  in  compliance  with  the  urgent  entreaties  of 
her  Ladyship  and  Lad^  Huntingdon,  Mr.  Whitefield  now  began 
strenuously  to  exert  himself  in  making  collections.  ^^  It  would 
have  pleased  your  Ladyship  (says  he)  to  have  seen  how 
willingly  the  people  gave  last  Lord's  day.  At  seven  in  the 
morning  we  collected  nfty  pounds,  in  the  evening  one  hundred 
and  twenty-six.  Blessed  be  God,  we  have  now  near  nine  hun- 
dred pounds  in  hand."  Still  he  was  determined  not  to  commence 
buildmff  without  a  sufficient  sum  to  proceed  with  ;  therefore  the 

iindation-stone  of  the  Tabernacle  was  not  laid  till  the  1st  of 


8ELINA9  00UNTEI8  OF  HUNTINQDON.  903 

March,  1753.     In  a  letter  to  Mr.  Charles  Wesley  there  is  an 
interesting  account  of  this  event : —  ., 

**0n  Tuesday  morning  the  first  brick  of  our  new  Tabernacle  was 
laid  with  aTvful  solemnity.  I  preached  from  Exodus  the  twentieth, 
and  the  latter  part  of  the  twen^-fourth  verse  :  *  In  all  places  where  I 
record  my  name,  I  will  come  in  to  thee  and  bless  thee/  Afterwards  we 
sung,  and  prayed  for  God's  blessing  in  all  places  where  his  glorious 
name  is  recorded.  The  wall  is  now  about  a  yard  high.  The  building 
is  to  bo  eighty  feet  square.  It  is  on  the  old  spot.  We  have  pur- 
chased the  house,  and,  if  we  finish  what  we  have  begun,  shall  be  rent 
free  for  forty-six  years.  We  have  about  eleven  hundred  pounds  now 
in  hand." 

As  the  new  Tabernacle  was  intended  to  be  much  larger  than 
the  temporary  one  already  mentioned,  the  shell  of  it  was  con- 
structed round  the  other,  m  order  that  the  conm*egation  might 
be  accommodated  with  a  place  to  meet  in  while  that  part  was 
erecting.  It  was  opened  for  the  preaching  of  the  everlasting 
Gospel  on  Sunday,  June  10,  1753,  on  which  occasion  Mr.  White- 
field  preached  in  the  morning  from  1  Kings  viii.  11:"  And  it 
was  so,  that  when  Solomon  had  made  an  end  of  praying  all  this 
prayer,"  &c.;  and  in  the  evening  from  1  Chron.  xxix.  9,  "Then 
the  people  rejoiced,  for  that  they  offered  willingly,"  &c.  The 
Tabernacle,  though  capable,  with  its  surrounding  galleriesi 
of  containing  about  four  thousand  persons,  was  crowdra  almost 
to  suffocation  in  every  part :  and  there,  as  in  every  otherfplacOf 
the  Lord  made  maniiest,  by  this  apostolic  man  and  his  zealous 
colleagues,  the  savour  of  his  grace. 

Not  long  after  the  opening  of  the  Tabernacle  in  Moorfields, 
application  was  made  to  Mr.  Whitefield  to  preach  twice  a-week 
in  Lon^Acre  Chapel,  then  in  the  possession  of  the  Rev.  John 
Barnard,*  who  had  officiated  in  it  for  some  time,  as  a  Protestant 
Dissenting  Minister.  The  chapel  was  licensed,  and  Mr.  White* 
field  had  permission  to  use  the  Liturgy  if  he  thought  proper. 
Looking  upon  this  as  a  providential  call  from  Him,  who  in  the 
days  of  his  flesh  taught  all  who  were  willing  to  hear,  on  a  mount, 
in  a  ship,  or  by  the  sea-side,  and  who  after  his  ascension  com« 
manded  his  mmisters,  by  his  apostle,  to  be  <*  instant  in  season 
and  out  of  season,"  Mr.  Whitefield  readily  complied,  and  preached 
there  for  the  first  time,  December  23,  1755. 

The  assemblies  at  the  residences  of  Lady  Huntingdon,  Lady 
Frances  Shirley,  and  Lady  Gertrude  Hotham,  were  composed 

*  Mr.  Darntrd  wu  one  of  Mr.  Whitefield*!  early  oonverte,  and  begiui  Ue 
miniatry  among  the  Independent  Diuentert.  Aftenrarda,  beeoming  acquainted 
with  Mr.  Saiideman,'  Mr.  Pike,  and  others,  he  embraced  the  Sandemanian 
principles,  waa  ordaiaad  an  elder  in  their  aodetite,  and  booame  an  tloqutnt 
preacher.    He  dltd  la  lWfi» 


204  THE  LIFE  AND  TIBOSS  OF 

chiefly  of  persons  in  the  upper  ranks  of  life,  who  were  very  im- 
portunate to  have,  nearer  nome,  the  blessings  of  the  Gospel, 
and  hoped  it  would  prove  a  mercy  to  their  neighbours ;  but  a 
conspiracy  was  formed  to  remove  him  from  Long  Acre.  Some 
soldiers,  and  others,  provided  with  a  copper  furnace,  bells, 
drums,  clappers,  &c.,  made  it  their  business  to  raise  the  loudest 
din  they  possibly  could,  from  the  moment  he  began  preaching 
to  the  end  of  his  sermon.  Persons  were  encouraged  to  riot  at 
the  chapel  door  during  the  time  of  divine  service,  and  insult 
and  abuse  him  and  the  congregation  after  it  was  over.  The 
chapel  windows  were  repeatedly  broken  by  lar^  stones,  which 
severely  wounded  many  of  the  congregation,  in  consequence 
of  these  unwarrantable  proceeding,  Mr.  Whitefield  wrote  to 
Dr.  Zachariah  Pearce,*  bishop  of  Bangor,  then  Dean  of  West- 
minster, and  applied  to  a  neighbouring  magistrate  for  protec- 
tion, which  being  immediately  afforded,  Mr.  Whitefield  thus 
addressed  him: — 

'<  Gratitude  (says  he)  constrains  me  to  send  you  a  few  lines  of 
thanks  for  the  care  and  zeal  you  have  expressed  in  suppressing  the 
late  disorders  at  Long- Acre  Chapel.  A  better  acknowledgment  will, 
I  trust,  await  you  at  His  bar  by  whom  kings  reign  and  princes  decree 
justice,  and  who  hath  instituted  magistracy  to  be  a  terror  to  evil-doers, 
and  a  praise  to  them  that  4o  well.  I  hear  that  some  unhappy  men 
have  incurred  the  penalty  inflicted  by  our  salutary  laws.  As  peace, 
not  revenge,  is  the  thing  aimed  at,  I  should  rejoice  if  this  comd  be 

frocured  without  the  delinquents  suffering  any  further  punisnment. 
^erhaps  what  hath  been  done  already  may  be  sufficient  to  deter 
others  from  any  further  illegal  proceedings,  and  that  will  be  satisfac- 
tion enough." 

After  preaching  a  few  weeks  at  the  chapel,  he  was  prohibited 
from  again  officiating  there  by  an  order  A*om  the  bishop  of 
Bangor.  But  Mr.  Whitefield  was  not  a  man  to  be  suspended 
from  the  free  declaration  of  the  Gospel  by  the  veto  of  any  in- 
tolerant or  persecuting  superior.  He  complained  less  of  the 
veto  than  of  the  interruption  which  was  now  got  up  by  members 
of  the  Bishop's  own  vestry;  of  this  he  spoke  energetically,  as 
the  following  letter  will  show : — 

^  I  beg  the  favour  of  your  Lordship  so  fS&r  to  interpose  as  to  desire 
the  persons  belonging  to  your  vestry  to  desist  from  such  irregular  pro- 
ceedings. For  my  own  irregularity  in  preaching  I  am  ready  at  any 
time  to  answer ;  and  was  I  myself  the  only  sufferer,  I  should  be  entirely 
unconcerned,  whatever  personal  ill-treatment  I  might  meet  with  in  the 
way  of  my  duty.  If  no  more  Eoise  be  made  on  their  part,  I  assure 
your  Lorcfship  no  further  reseutment  shall  be  made  on  mine.     But  if 

*  Afterwards  Bishop  of  Rochester — a  man  verv  celebrated  in  his  day  as  a 
scholar  and  politician,  and  a  determined  opposer  ot  Methodism* 


SELINA)  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  205 

they  persist,  I  have  the  authority  of  an  apostle,  on  a  like  occasion,  to 
appeal  unto  Caesar.  And>  thanks  he  to  Ood,  we  have  a  Caesar  to  appeal 
to,  whose  laws  will  not  suffer  any  of  his  loyal  subjects  to  he  used  in 
such  an  inhuman  manner.  I  have  only  one  favour  to  heg  of  your  Lord- 
ship, that  you  would  send  Tas  they  are  your  Lordship's  parishioners) 
to  the  above  gentlemen^  ana  desire  them  henceforward  to  desist  from 
such  unchristian,  such  riotous  and  dangerous  proceedings.  Whether 
as  a  chaplain  to  a  most  worthy  Peeress,  a  Presbyter  of  the  Church  of 
England,  and  a  steady,  disinterested  friend  to  our  present  happy  con- 
stitution, I  have  not  a  right  to  ask  such  a  favour,  I  leave  to  your  Lord- 
ship's mature  deliberation.  You  will  allow  I  have  a  right  to  do  myself 
justice,  and  therefore  I  hope  you  will  not  be  offended  if  I  lav  a  plain 
and  fair  narration  of  the  whole  affair,  together  with  what  hath  passed 
between  your  Lordship  and  myself,  before  the  world." 

As  the  uproar  was  still  continued,  and  the  facts  were  so  fla- 
grant, he  determined  to  prosecute  the  offenders  by  law.  This 
being  understood,  his  life  was  threatened ;  when,  judmng  that 
others  were  concerned  as  well  as  himself,  and  that  it  was  an 
affair  that  had  reference  to  the  welfare  of  the  civil  government, 
he,  by  the  advice  of  Lady  Huntingdon,  consulted  the  Hon. 
Hume  Campbell.*  Alluding  to  these  disagreeable  circum- 
stances, in  a  letter  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  he  says — 

*'  My  greatest  distress  is,  how  to  act,  so  as  to  avoid  rashness  on  the 
one  hand,  and  timidity  on  the  other.  I  have  been  introduced  to  the 
Earl  of  Holdemesse,t  who  received  me  very  courteouslv,  and  seemed 
to  make  no  objection  against  issuing  a  reward  for  the  discovery  of  the 
lctter-^vriter4  Mr.  Hume  Campbell  advises  me,  by  all  means^  to  put 
all  concerned  into  the  Court  of  King's  Bench.  I  see  no  other  way 
for  me  to  act,  than  either  resolutely  to  persist  in  preacMrj  nnd  pro- 
secuting, or  entirely  to  desist  from  preaching,  which  I  thuik  would 
bring  intolerable  guilt  upon  my  soul,  and  give  the  adversary  cause  to 
blaspheme.  Alas  I  alas !  what  a  condition  would  this  land  be  in,  were 
the  Protestant  interest  not  to  prevail !  Glad  should  I  be  to  die  by  the 
hands  of  an  assassin  if  Popery  is  to  get  footing  here.  I  shall  then  be 
taken  away  from  the  evil  to  come." 

One  effect  of  this  persecution  was  to  induce  Mr.  Whitefield 
to  erect  a  permanent  and  suitable  place  of  worship  at  the  west* 

*  Mr.  Hume  (who  took  the  name  of  Campbell,  from  his  mother,  daughter  of 
Sir  John  Campbell,  of  Cessnock,  Ayr)  was  brother  of  Lady  Huntiiigdon*8 
friend,  Lady  Jane  Nimmo.  He  was  an  eminent  counsellor,  solicitor  to  the 
Princess  of  Wales,  Lord  Clerk  Registrar  of  Scotland,  M.  P.  for  Berwick  in 
several  Parliaments,  an  occasional  hearer  of  Mr.  Whitefield,  and  a  hberal  con- 
tributor to  the  Tottenham-court  Chapel.    He  died  at  London,  July  18,  1761. 

t  Robert,  Earl  of  Holdemesse,  chosen  one  of  his  Majesty's  principal  Secre- 
taries of  State,  July  12, 1751,  in  which  office  he  was  associated  with  Henry  Fox, 
afterwards  Lord  Holland,  and  William  Pitt,  the  celebrated  Earl  of  Chatham. 

I  One  of  the  threats  against  the  life  of  Whitefield  was  contained  in  an  anony- 
mous letter,  which  the  writer  or  his  accomplices  contrived  to  lay  upon  the 
cushion  of  his  pulpit 


908  TBI  LIfB  AND  TIMES  Of 

and  of  London.     Tlie  first  account  of  his  intention  is  contained 
In  A  It^ttor  to  l4idy  Huntingdon,  dated  May  2,  1756  — 

^*  I  llud  thiii  all  thiugt  happen  for  the  furtheranco  of  the  GrospcK 
I  wupiuMN^  your  Ladyihip  hath  Mon  his  Majest/s  promise  of  a  pardon 
IM  auv  llml  will  diimYvr  the  letter-writer :  and  this  brii^  your  Lady- 
iihi|(  ilit»  t\irlh<^  uewt  of  my  haying  taken  a  piece  of  ground,  very 
^umvHli^ui  lo  huild  ou»  not  far  from  the  Foundling  Hospital.  On 
ShuJi^  \  i»|HHH^l  Ih^  subacriplkMi,  and^  through  €h>d's  blessing,  it 
M^  aiiva4>  aUK^uulfd  lo  umut  six  hundred  pounds.  If  he  is  ^eased 
1^  VKmtiuua  H^  suUlv  U)HMft  m^  wmmt  tndeaTours,  and  to  nfen  the  hearts 
vl  «utt^s»  luvMra  ^  hi»  4«ar  vhudrea  to  contrtbute,  I  hope  in  a  few 
lU^uths  (u  hav^  what  halh  Wtm  bi»ea  wanted — a  place  for  the  Gospel 
a^  thp  ^ih^r  imd  uf  th^  towu«  This  BMuming,  Qod  wiQing»  I  yenturc 
ViuvM  muv^  tit  )M^H^U  at  Lou^Aci^'*  The  enemy  boasts  that  I  am 
frigkt^u^Hl  away :  but  tho  triumph  of  the  wicked  is  short.  Our 
peP)^\S  Mr,  Hume  Caa»pbett»  Mr«  Madaa»t  Sce^  are  for  bringing  the 
fiatei^  ta  the  King  s  Beach ;  and^  perhaps^  upoo  the  whi4e^  it  may 

Tht)  iouudatioiK»ti>ae  of  Tottenham-court  Chapel  was  laid 
wUU  great  Si>lemuity  in  the  beginning  of  June,  1756,  od  which 
(H)casu>u  Mr.  Whitefield  was  supported  by  three  celebrated 
Dissenting  ministers,  who  stood  by  hinrj — Dr.  Benjamin  Gros- 
venor,  Dr.  Thomas  Gibbons,  and  Dr.  Andrew  Giffbrd,  ass^istant 
librarian  at  the  Britbh  Museum.  Their  counteoance  at  this 
period,  and  on  thb  occasion,  and  their  occasionally  preaching 
at  the  Tabernacle  for  him,  are  proo&  of  liberality  which  redoum 
much  to  their  honour.  It  is,  {)erhaps,  not  generally  known  that 
it  was  Mr.  Whitefield's  intention  to  place  this  chapel  under 
Ladt/  HuntingdoTCs  protection  : — 

^  We  Lave  consalted  the  Commons  (says  he)  about  putting  it 
under  your  Ladyship*8  protection.  This  is  the  answer  : — *•  No 
nobleman  can  license  a  chapel,  or  in  any  manner  have  one,  Ittt  in  kit 
dwelling  house  ;  tlie  chapel  must  be  private,  that  is,  not  with  doors  to 
the  street,  for  any  persons  to  resort  to  at  pleasure,  for  then  it  becomes 
public.  A  chapel  cannot  be  built  and  used  as  such,  without  the  con- 
sent of  the  parson  of  the  parish  ;  and  when  it  is  done  with  his  consent, 

*  Mr.  Whitefield  continued  to  preach  occasionally  at  Long  Acre  chapel,  after 

hif  chapel  in  Tottenham-court  road  was  opened.     In  the  year  1780  it  vi-as 

•ed,  and  for  man^  yearfl  the  late  Rev.   Henry  Foster  ii'os  the  licensed 

1  connexion  with  the  late  Rev.  Richard  Cecil ;  on  whuse  removal  to 

Bedford-row,  Mr.  Foster  was  associated  with  Bir.  Cuthbert  and  Mr. 

(feerwards  rector  of  St.  Swithin.  London-stone.     In  1806  the  Rev. 

became  associated  with  Mr.  Watkins  in  the  pastoral  services  of  Lung 

it     To  him  succeeded  the  late  Rev.  Mr.  lloweUs,  who  continued 

>  jiinistry  there  till  his  death. 

;  a  edebnted  lawyer,  but  afterwards  minister  of  the  Lock  Chapel, 
Jfthf  late  Bishop  of  Peterborough,  and  cousin  to  Cowper,  the  poet 


SELINAf  COUNTESS  07  HVNTXKGDON.  307 

no  minifitcr  can  preacli  therein  without  licence  of  the  bishop  of  the 
diocese.'  There  seems,  then,  to  be  but  one  way — to  license  it  at 
our  other  houses  are ;  and  thanks  be  to  Jesus  for  that  liberty  which 
M'e  have !" 

Through  the  liberal  contributions  of  Lady  Huntingdon  and 
other  persons  of  rank,  the  chapel  advanced  rapidly,  and  on  tho 
7th  of  November,  1756,  it  was  opened  for  divine  worship,  accor- 
ding to  the  forms  of  the  Church  of  England.  On  this  occasion 
Mr.  Whitefield  preached  from  1  Chronicles  iii.  11.  The  chapel 
became  an  object  of  intense  interest  and  curiosity.* 

^  A  neighbouring  doctor  (says  Mr.  Whitefield)  calls  the  place 
Whitefisld*s  Soul-tbap.  I  pray  the  Friend  of  sinners  to  make  it  a 
soul-trap  indeed  to  many  wandering  creatures/*  In  a  subsequent  letter 
he  adds,  "At  Long- Acre,  indeed,  the  Word  ran,  and  at  Tottenham- 
Court  Chapel  we  have  had  some  glorious  earnests  of  future  blessings. 
My  constant  work  now  is,  preaching  about  fiftbbn  times  a-wcek. 
Conviction  and  conversion  go  on  here.  God  hath  met  us  at  our  new 
building.  Last  Sunday  there  was  a  wonderful  stirring  amongst  the 
dry  bones ;  some  great  people  came,  and  begged  they  might  have  a 
constant  seat." 

Among  Mr.  Whitefield's  frequent  hearers  at  the  new  chapel 
was  Shuter,  the  comedian,  then  in  the  height  of  his  reputiuion 
as  the  representative  of  Ramble.  On  one  occasion  he  was  seated 
in  the  pew  exactly  opposite  the  pulpit,  and  while  Mr.  Whitefield, 
iu  his  energetic  aiddress,  was  inviting  sinners  to  the  Saviour,  he 
fixed  his  eye  on  Shuter,  saying — <^  And  thou,  poor  Ramble^ 
who  hast  long  rambled  from  nim,  come  thou  also.  O,  end  thy 
ramblings  by  coming  to  Jesus  !"  Shuter  was  exceedingly  struck, 
and  afterwards,  coming  to  Mr.  Whitefield,  said,  ^^  I  thought  I 
should  have  fieunted — ^how  could  you  serve  me  so  ?' 

*  Tottenham- Court  Chapel,  when  first  erected,  was  a  double  brick  buildinj^, 
70  feet  square  within  the  walls.  Twelve  almshouses  and  a  chapcl-honFc  were 
added  in  1 758.  But  the  chapel  being  too  small  for  the  accommodation  of 
those  who  wished  to  attend,  an  octangular  front  was  added  to  it  in  the  printer 
of  1759-60.  The  lease  granted  bv  General  George  Fltzroy  to  Mr.  Whitefield 
having  expired  in  1828,  the  chapel  was  closed  until  1880,  when  the  trustees 
purchased  the  freehold  of  it  for  fourteen  thousand  pounds,  and  l^id  out  about 
sur  thousand  mote  in  repairs.  It  was  re-opened  October  27,  1831.  The  Rev. 
William  Jay  preached  in  the  morning,  from  Rev.  zxi.  22 ;  and  the  Rev.  J.  Par- 
sons in  the  evening,  from  Jer.  ix.  3.  The  chapel  at  present  is  a  handsome 
building — the  exterior,  coated  with  stucco  and  ornamented  with  pilasters, 
having  a  boldly  projecting  moulding.  The  interior  is  neat  and  in  ^ood  taste,  the 
cupola  being  supported  by  twelve  columns.  The  present  pulpit  is  the  same  as 
that  in  which  Mr.  Whiteneld  preached.  The  length  is  127  feet,  the  breadth  70, 
and  the  height  of  the  summit  of  the  dome  1 14  feet.  It  will  accommodate  from 
three  to  four  thousand  persons,  and  very  many  of  the  seats  are  free.  The  voice 
of  the  preacher  may  be  distinctly  heard  in  every  part  of  the  building.  Among 
the  monumental  tablets  are  memorials  of  Whitefield,  Toplady,  and  Joss.  And 
in  the  mausoleum  are  deposited  the  remains  of  several  dergymen  and  dissent- 
ing ministen. 


208  THB  LIFE  AND  TIM£S  OF 

The  Rev.  Mr.  Kinsman,  another  intimate  friend  of  Shuter's, 
tried  hard  to  wean  him  from  his  profession.  Meeting  one  day 
in  Portsmouth,  Mr.  Kinsman  said  he  had  been  preaching  so 
often,  and  to  such  large  auditories,  that  Dr.  Fothergill  advised 
change  of  air  to  avert  a  threatened  illness.  "  And  I  (said 
Shuter)  have  been  acting  till  ready  to  die ;  but,  oh,  how  different 
our  conditions  !  Had  you  fallen,  it  would  have  been  in  the  ser- 
vice of  God ;  but  in  whose  service  have  my  powers  been  wasted  ? 
I  dread  to  think  of  it.  I  certainly  had  a  call  once,  while  study- 
ing my  part  in  the  Park,  and  had  Mr.  Whitefield  received  me 
at  the  Lord's  table  I  never  should  have  gone  back ;  but  the 
caresses  of  the  great,  who,  when  unhappy,  want  Shuter  to  make 
them  laugh,  are  too  seducing.  There  is  a  good  and  moral  play 
to-night,  but  no  sooner  is  it  over  than  I  come  in  with  mv  farce 
of  ^  A  dish  of  ad  sorts^^  and  knock  all  the  moral  on  the  \iead." 
Being  seen  with  Mr.  Kinsman,  his  friends  rated  him  as  a  Metho- 
dist: ^^  A  precious  method  is  mine  (said  Shuter) :  no,  I  wish  I 
were ;  if  any  be  right  they  are."  The  attractions  of  his  profes- 
sion, however,  nipped  in  the  bud  the  flowers  of  promise  which 
his  rehgious  friend  hoped  to  see  blooming  fully. 

Shuter  once  visited  Lady  Huntingdon  at  Bath,  when  per- 
forming in  that  city.  Her  Ladyship  met  him  in  the  street,  and, 
though  personally  unknown  to  him  inquired  after  his  health, 
and  invited  him  to  her  house.  The  only  account  of  this  inter- 
view which  now  remains  is  contained  in  a  short  extract  of  a  let- 
ter from  her  Ladyship  to  Lady  Fanny  Shirley.  Speaking  of 
Shuter,  she  says : — 

^  I  have  had  a  visit  from  Shuter,  the  comedian,  whom  I  saw  in  the 
street,  and  asked  to  call  on  me.  He  was  wonderfully  astonislied 
when  I  announced  my  name.  We  had  much  conversation ;  but  he 
cannot  give  up  his  profession  for  another  more  reputable.  He  spoke 
of  Mr.  Whitefield  with  great  affection,  and  with  admiration  of  his  talents. 
He  promised  to  come  some  other  time,  when  he  had  more  leisure  for 
conversation.     Poor  fellow!  I  think  he  is  not  far  from  the  kingdom." 

Another  actor,*  equal  in  professional  eminence  to  Shuter, 

*  Foote  was  a  native  of  Truro,  in  Cornwall,  and  in  early  life  the  school* 
fellow  and  companion  of  the  late  Dr.  Haweis.  His  father  was  a  justice  of  ihe 
peace,  and  bis  mother  the  sister  of  Sir  John  Dinely  Goodere,  who  was  mur- 
dered by  his  brother,  Captain  Goodere,  in  1741.  He  had  a  most  amazing  talent 
for  imitating,  even  to  the  very  voice  of  those  he  intended  to  take  off.  For  this 
species  of  amusement  he  had  several  actions  brought  against  him,  and  was  cast 
in  heavy  damages.  One  of  his  biographers  tells  us,  that  "  very  pressinsf  em- 
barrassments in  his  affairs  compelled  nim  to  bring  out  bis  comedy  ox  The 
Minor,  in  1 760,  to  ridicule  Methodism,  which,  though  successful,  gave  great 
offence,  and  was  at  last  suppressed."  His  talent  for  ridicule  ultimately  proved 
his  destruction.  In  1776  he  drew  a  character  of  the  celebrated  Duchess  of 
Kicgston,  then  much  talked  of,  who  had  influence  enough  to  hinder  his  play 


SELIKA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  209 

but  of  a  very  different  moral  character,  was  employed  by  Mr. 
Whitefield's  enemies  to  mimic  and  burlesque  bim,  m  a  manner 
the  most  profane  and  ludicrous,  on  the  stage  of  the  Theatre 
Royal,  Drury  Lane.  His  success  at  that  theatre  induced  him  (o 
write,  and  bring  out  at  the  Haymarket  Theatre  his  "  Minor,"  a 
ridiculous  farce  levelled  at  the  Methodists.  Of  this  miserable 
piece  of  buffoonery  it  may  be  enough  to  say,  that  he,  and  the 
agents  employed  at  the  Tabernacle  and  Tottenham-Court- 
Chapel  to  procure  materials,  were  so  disgracefully  ignorant 
of  the  inspired  writings,  as  not  to  know  that  what  they  took 
for  Mr.  Whitefield's  peculiar  language  was  that  of  the  word  of 
God ! 

A  letter  addressed  to  Mr.  Garrick,  written  by  the  Rev* 
Martin  Madan  on  the  intended  representation  of  this  piece, 
had  a  most  extensive  circulation,  and  Lady  Huntingdon  waited 
on  the  Lord  Chamberlain,  to  apply  for  the  suppression  of  "  Tho 
Minor."  Her  request  could  not  immediately  be  granted :  but 
his  Lordship  assured  her  that  if  he  had  haa  any  mtimation  of 
the  evil  tendency  of  "  The  Minor,"  previous  to  its  being  li- 
censed, it  never  should  have  appeared.  Lady  Huntingdon  next 
sought  an  interview  with  Mr.  Garrick,  who  treated  her  Ladyship 
with  the  utmost  deference  and  respect ;  and  her  remonstrances 
so  far  succeeded  that  Roscius  promised  to  use  his  influence  in 
excluding  it  for  the  present,  ana  added,  that  had  he  been  aware 
of  the  offence  it  was  calculated  to  give,  it  should  never  have 
appeared  with  his  concurrence. 

The  opposition  manifested  towards  Mr.  Whitefield  at  Long- 
Acre  Chapel,  and  the  representation  of  that  wretched  piece  of 
mummery  at  the  theatres,  so  far  from  lessening  the  number  of 
his  congregation,  considerably  increased  his  popularity,  and 
brought  thousands  of  new  persons  to  hear  the  Gospel,  which 
was  the  very  thing  he  aimed  at;  and  thus  Providence  gave 
him  the  victory.  About  this  period  he  preached  frequently 
at  the  Tabernacle  and  Tottenham-Court  Chapel,  in  behalf 
of  the  poor  French  Protestants  in  Prussia,  who  had  suffered 
so  much  from  the  cruelty  of  the  Russians,  when  great  numbers 
of  the  nobility  and  many  of  the  highest  ofiicers  of  the  Crown 
went  to  hear  him.  The  collections  on  these  occasions  amounted 
to  upwards  q{  fifteen  hundred  pounds^  and  for  this  disinterested 
act  of  benevolence  Mr.  Whitefield  received  the  thanks  of  his 
Prussian  Majesty. 

from  being  represented.  He  then  threatened  to  publish,  and  endeavoured  to 
extort  a  consioerable  sum  of  money  from  the  Duchess.  HThe  affair  ripened  at 
length  into  a  legal  charge,  and  the  shock  he  received  from  this  disgraceful  ex* 
posure  is  believed  to  have  had  a  fatal  effect  upon  him.  After  a  life  of  great 
vicissitude  and  irr^gulaiity,  b0  died  M  Dover,  in  1777. 
yOL.  I.- 


210  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

Again,  on  the  day  appointed  for  a  general  fast,  Mr.  White- 
field  preached  at  Tottenham*Court  Chapel,  from  Joel  ii.  15, 
and  in  the  evening  at  the  Tabernacle,  from  Gen.  vii.  1,  after 
which  collections,  amounting  to  upwards  of  Jive  hundred  and 
sixty  paundsy  were  made  for  the  relief  of  the  German  Protes- 
tants and  the  sufferers  by  fire  at  Boston,  for  which  he  received 
the  unanimous  thanks  of  the  freeholders  and  inhabitants  of  that 
town.     On  this  occasion  several  persons  of  consequence  were 

E resent,  ^*It  would  delight  you  (says  Lady  Huntingdon)  to 
ave  seen  what  crowds  of  the  mighty  and  noble  flocked  to  hear 
him.  The  collection  was  for  the  relief  of  the  poor  German 
Protestants.  I  invited  several  to  come  who  probably  would  not 
attend  his  ministry  on  other  occasions.  All  appeared  pleased 
and  surprised.''  Ladv  Chesterfield,  Lady  Gertrude  Hotham, 
and  Lady  Fanny  Shirley,  also  took  large  parties  of  the  nobility 
with  them.  Lords  Halifax  and  Holdernesse,  the  personal  friends^ 
of  Lady  Huntingdon,  the  latter  at  that  moment  Secretary  of 
State,  but  succeeded  in  that  office  a  few  weeks  after  by  Lord 
Bute,  who  was  likewise  present :  the  young  Duke  of  Grafton, 
then  rising  rapidly  into  pubUc  life,  and  Lady  Harrington,  his 
Grace's  aunt ;  the  Duchess*  was  prevented  availing  herself  of 
Lidy  Huntingdon's  invitation.  The  Duke,  now  chiefly  remem- 
bered as  having  been  the  subject  of  attack  from  the  eloquent  but 
rabid  pen  of  the  celebrated  Junius,  whose  '<  Letters"  are  said 
to  have  driven  him  from  the  helm,  was  soon  after  in  office  as 
Secretary  of  State,  and  First  Lord  of  the  Treasury.  To  thcFO 
celebrated  personages  mny  be  added  the  names  of  two  of  the 
greatest  men  of  their  day,  Charles  Fox  and  William  Pitt,  who, 
with  Mr.  Orby  Hunter,  Lord  Villiers,  and  Mr.  Soame  Jenyns, 
the  admired  author  of  a  treatise  on  the  internal  evidence  of  the 
Christian  reUgion,  were  to  be  found  mingling  with  the  crowd  that 
thronged  every  part  of  these  edifices.  Few  places  could  boast 
of  such  a  constellation  of  transcendent  genius  and  senatorial 
talent,  such  a  brilliant  assemblage  of  wisdom,  magnanimity,  and 
oratorical  powers,  as  was  then  to  be  found  within  the  vfMs  of 
Tottenham-  Court  Chapel  and  the  Tabernacle.  These  congrega- 
tions were  long  attracted  by  the  eloquence  of  Whitefield  alone, 
and  he  for  many  years  was  the  sole  minister  of  those  chapels, 
which  have  continued  almost  ever  since  to  supply  a  portion  of  the 
life-blood  of  vital  Christianity  to  the  metropolis.  In  1766,  indeed, 
he  associated  with  himself  the  late  Captain  Joss ;  before  speak- 

*  Her  Grace,  of  whom  there  U  such  frequent  mention  in  the  Letters  of 
JuniuH,  was  a  daughter  of  Lord  Ravcnsworth,  and  after  the  dissolution  of  hci 
marriage  was  united  to  the  Earl  of  Upper  Ossory,  by  whom  she  had  two  daugb 
ters,  Lady  Anne  and  Lady  Qtrtmde  FitzpftUrlck.    Udj  Oasory  died  in  1Q(H. 


SELIKA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  2ll 

ing  of  whom,  however,  let  us  remind  our  readers  of  one  of  the 
most  popular  of  the  supplies  at  these  chapels,  the  late  Row- 
land Hill,  who  in  the  summer  of  1772,  by  his  ministry  in  them 
was  the  means  of  reviving  the  cause  of  Methodism.  The  distin- 
guished situation  in  which  he  wiis  placed,  held  him  up  more 
than  ever  before  public  observation.  His  labours  in  tne  me- 
tropolis were  immense ;  and  great  and  small  bore  testimony  to 
the  power  with  which  he  spake.  The  displays  of  Gospel  grace 
under  the  ministry  of  this  faithful  labourer  in  the  Lord's  vine- 
yard were  truly  surprising ;  and  his  success  was,  from  the  begin- 
ning, as  great  as  the  situation  in  which  he  stood  was  peculiar  and 
eminent* 

"  The  popularity  of  Mr.  Hill  (says  Lady  Huntingdon,  in  a  letter 
written  at  this  period),  and  the  crowds  that  follow  hiin  wherever  he 
is  called  to  preach,  overwhelm  me  with  astonishment,  and  grutitiule 
to  the  God  of  all  grace,  who  hath  endowed  him  with  such  gifts.  Ho 
boldly  ])roclaims  the  doctrines  of  the  cross,  and  the  word  of  tlic  Lord 
runs  and  is  gloriBed  iu  the  conversion  of  multitudes.  Dear  Captain 
Joss  told  mo  above  a  hundred  wakened  souls,  the  fruits  of  his 
preaching,  have  been  received  into  the  Tabernacle  Society, — so  emi- 
nently does  the  benediction  of  our  dear  and  precious  Immauucl  ix^st 
on  the  labours  of  his  servant.  I  have  atteuded  him  at  Blackheatli 
aud  Kenniugton,  where  the  Lord  blessed  his  to  timony  iu  a  very  re- 
markable manner.  Thousands  and  thousands  attended,  and  the  most 
awful  and  solemn  impresiion  seemed  to  pervade  the  vast  assemblies. 
Excepting  my  beloved  and  lamented  Mr.  Whitefield,  I  never  wit- 
nessed any  person's  preaching  wherein  there  was  such  displays  of 
the  Divine  ])ower  and  glory  as  in  Mr.  Hill's.  May  Hb  who  hath 
raised  up  this  second  Whitefield^  with  talents  and  zeal  so  distinguished, 
make  hnn  eminent  in  his  day  and  generation,  crown  his  message  with 
success,  and  by  his  own  Almighty  power,  the  copious  effusions  of  his 
Spirit,  and  the  effectual  manifestations  of  his  grace  to  his  soul,  keep 
him  faithful  to  the  end." 

Mr.  Hill's  residence  was  at  the  Tabernacle  House  in  Moor- 
fields,  from  which  he  made  preacliing  excursions  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  London,  in  addition  to  his  labours  in  the  metro- 
polis itself.  The  effects  of  his  addresses  to  the  people  on 
these  occasions  v/erc  extraordinary  in  the  extreme.  One  in- 
dividual wrote  him  word,  for  his  encouragement,  that  the  Lord 
had  blessed  the  truth  he  had  delivered  to  "hundreds,"  nay, 
he  might  safely  say,  "  thousands ;''  and  earnestly  entreated  hiui 
to  return  as  soon  as  possible,  as  "  multitudes  longed  for  the 
time  when  they  should  hear  him  again."  "  Many  (he  con- 
tinues) I  have  visited  on  their  sick  bed,  blessing  God  for  the 
time  they  heard  you.  Notes  of  thanks  were  put  up  from 
whole  families,  stirred  up  to  seek  the  Lord  by  your  ministry." 
p  2 


212  TH£   LIFE   AND  TIMES   OF 

The  style  of  Rowland  Hill's  addresses  to  the  people  was, 
at  this  period  of  life,  extremely  simple  and  forcible;  they 
abounded  with  lucid  views  of  the  doctrines  of  the  Gospel,  min- 
gled with  sudden  bursts  of  vivid,  sublime,  and  sometimes  sin- 
gular illustrations.  A  specimen  of  this  mode  of  appealing  to 
the  people  is  to  be  found  in  a  preface  to  a  little  work,  con- 
taining an  address  to  those  who  had  been  converted  by  his 
ministry  in  London.  It  is  dated  Tabernacle  House,  August  27, 
1772.  Soon  after  he  proceeded  to  the  degree  of  Master  of 
Arts,  at  Cambridge,  ana  visited  his  excellent  friend  and  patron, 
Mr.  Berridge,  vicar  of  Everton,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the 
University.  He  again  preached  to  immense  crowds  at  the 
Tabernacle  and  Tottenham-Court  Chapel,  after  which  l.c  re- 
tired, as  the  winter  came  on,  to  the  seat  of  his  family  in 
Shropshire.  From  his  friend  Captain  Joss  he  received,  whilst 
there,  accounts  of  his  converts  in  London.  "  We  have  taken 
(he  informs  him)  above  one  hundred  into  society,  concerning 
whom  it  may  be  said  that  you  were  the  happy  instrument  oiF 
opening  their  eves.  There  are  many  more  with  whom  I  have 
conversed,  who,  I  sincerely  trust,  will  be  vour  crown  of  rejoicing 
in  the  day  of  the  Lord.  Indeed,  my  dear  brother,  what  the 
Lord  hath  done  by  you  in  London  cannot  but  afford  you  matter 
of  joy  and  humiliation." 

This  was  before  Mr.  Hill  had  obtained  episcopal  ordination. 
On  the  6th  of  June,  1 773,  through  the  kind  and  unexpected 
interposition  of  Providence,  he  was  ordained  by  the  Bishop  of 
Bath  and  Wells,  tcithout  any  promise  or  condition  tcJiatever^ 
and  preached  his  first  sermon  for  his  dear  and  valued  friend, 
Mr.  Kouquet,  at  St.  W^erburgh's,  Bristol,  on  the  8th  of  June, 
to  a  verj'  large  congregation.  He  then  retired  to  his  curacy 
at  Kingston,  in  Somersetshire,  and  after  a  few  months  spent 
there,  returned  to  London  to  supply  the  Tabernacle  and  Tot- 
tenham-Court Chapel.  The  recollection  of  his  early  preaching 
in  these  places  was  cherished  by  hirn  to  the  end  of  his  days, 
with  a  happy  retrospect  of  the  ease  with  which  he  spoke,  and 
the  crowds  who  attended  his  ministry.  In  the  last  sermon  he 
ever  preached,  delivered  on  March  31,  1833,  he  said,  "Oh  ! 
my  dear  brethren,  I  almost  wish  to  be  made  young  again,  if  I 
could  but  see  such  days  as  when  I  first  came  and  preached  at 
Tottenham-Court  Chapel,  and  was  in  the  habit  of  preaching  in 
the  streets  and  lanes  for  want  of  room.  Oh  !  how  I  love  to 
recollect  what  I  then  felt." 

To  return  to  Captain  Joss.  On  him  Mr.  Whitefield  pre- 
vailed to  leave  the  compass,  the  chart,  and  the  ocean,  for  the 
service  of  the  sanctuary.    A   maritime  employment   is   not 


SELINA,  COUTNESS  OP  HUNTINGDON.  213 

generally  very  favourable  to  reli^^ious  improvement;  but  that 
God  who  "  sitteth  upon  the  floods  can  (as  Mr.  Whiteheld 
said  of  him  and  Captain  Scott)  bring  a  shark  from  the  ocean, 
and  a  lion  from  the  forest,"  and  "  form  them  for  himself  to 
show  forth  his  praise."  His  sermons,  in  the  former  years  of 
his  residence  in  London,  were  not  only  attended  by  large 
auditories,  but  with  energy,  to  the  conversion  of  many  souls ;  nor 
did  God  leave  him  without  many  witnesses  to  the  close  of  his 
ministerial  labours.  He  generally  spent  four  or  five  months  in 
the  year  out  of  London,  for  the  purpose  of  itinerating.  In  this 
period  he  regularly  visited  South  Wales,  Gloucestershire,  Bris- 
tol Tabernacle,  and,  occasionally,  other  parts  of  the  kingdom. 
In  Pembrokeshire  the  Welsh  followed  him  in  multitudes ;  and, 
on  the  Lord's- day,  would  travel  from  one  to  twenty  miles  round 
Haverfordwest  to  hear  him.  To  not  a  few  ef  them  he  became 
a  spiritual  father;  and,  indeed,  wherever  he  exercised  his 
talents,  though  but  a  few  weeks,  he  left  some  seals  of  his  minis- 
try behind. 

Mr.  Whitefield  and  the  Rev.  Toriel  Joss  were  joint  minis- 
ters, till  the  death  of  the  former,  in  1770;  soon  after  which* 
event  a  Mr.  Brooksbanks  was  appointed  assistant  preacher. 
How  long  he  continued  is  uncertam,  but  most  probably  to  the 
autumn  of  1775,  when  the  Rev.  Matthew  Wilks  was  admitted 
a  minister  of  the  Tabernacle  connexion.  This  venerable  and 
respected  man  was  called  under  the  ministry  of  the  Rev.  Wil- 
liam Piercvj  who  at  that  period  was  curate  of  West  Bromwich, 
in  Staffordshire,  and  afterwards  Chaplain  to  the  Countess  of 
Huntingdon.  Early  discovering  the  intellectual  powers  and 
moral  worth  of  Mr.  Wilks,  and  anticipating  his  becoming  of 
extraordinary  use  to  the  Church  of  Christ,  Mr.  Piercy  not 
only  manifested  great  personal  attachment  towards  him,  but 
insisted  upon  his  devoting  himself  to  the  work  of  the  Christian 
ministry.  QuotingMr.  Wilk's  own  words : — "  To  the  Countess 
of  Huntingdon's  College,  at  Trevecca,  I  must  and  should  go ; 
and,  thougti  against  my  inclination,  I  went,  and  closely  pursued 
my  studies." 

During  the  latter  part  of  his  college  life,  Mr.  Keene,  one  of 
the  executors  of  Mr  Whitefield,  and  a  manager  of  his  London 
chapels,  paid  Lady  Huntingdon  a  visit  in  Wales,  and  heard  Mr. 
Wilks  preach  part  of  a  Sabbath  in  the  College  Chapel.  The 
result  was  an  invitation  to  London  as  a  supply,  and  in  the  au- 
tumn of  1775  his  appointment  as  minister  of  the  Tabernacle 
connexion  took  place,  the  Rev.  Messrs.  Berridge,  Piercy,  and 
Joss  taking  parts  in  his  ordination. 

For  more  than  ^^fly  years  this  venerable  servant  of  Christ 


214  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

proclaimed  the  Gospel  of  his  divine  Master  in  the  pulpits  of 
the  Tabernacle  and  Tottenham- Court  Chapel,  and  durmg  this 
very  extended  period  his  mhiistry  was  attended  by  all  the  best 
proofs  of  a  decided  popularity.  The  benediction  of  the  Spirit 
of  (jod  rested  upon  his  labours  of  love,  and  numerous  have 
been  the  Cliristian  pastors  who  attributed  their  conversion  to 
him  as  God's  honoured  instrument,  many  of  whom  have  been 
introduced  to  their  spheres  of  labour  by  his  kind  and  effective 
patronage.  He  was  greatly  honoured  of  God,  in  being  the 
father  of  several  of  tne  great  schemes  now  in  operation  at 
home  and  abroad  for  the  salvation  of  souls.  The  "  Evange- 
lical Magazine"  owes  its  origin  to  the  mutual  efforts  of  the 
Rev.  John  Eyre  and  himself,  both  educated  at  Trevecca,  and 
introduced  into  public  life  under  the  auspices  of  the  Countess 
of  Huntingdon.  [le  was  one  of  the  fathers  of  the  Liondon 
Missionary  Society,  and  preached  a  sermon  previous  to  its 
fonnation  at  Tottenham-Court  Chapel,  in  the  year  1795,  from 
Ps.  xliii.  3 — "  O  send  out  thy  life  and  thy  truth,"  which  was 
tlie  means  of  awakening  a  missionary  spirit  in  the  hearts  of 
many  who  had  the  privilege  of  hearing  it.  A  sermon  preached 
at  its  annual  meeting,  at  Surrey- chapel,  In  1812,  if  not  the 
most  eloquent,  was,  beyond  all  dispute,  the  most  ingenious  and 
effective  ever  preached  in  its  behalf ;  for  from  that  sermon  have 
arisen  all  the  Auxiliary  and  Branch  Societies  in  England  and 
America. 

For  some  years  previous  to  his  decease  the  health  of  Mr. 
Joss  was  in  a  declining  state.  This  good  man,  whom  Mr. 
Berridge  used  to  stylo  "  The  Archdeacon  of  Tottenham,"  was 
removed  to  his  eternal  rest  April  17,  1797.  In  consequence 
of  his  inability  to  preach  as  frequently  as  formerly,  about  eight 
years  previous  to  his  decease,  Messrs.  Keene  and  West  gave 
the  Rev.  Joel  Abraham  Knight  a  cordial  and  affectionate  in- 
vitation to  settle  in  the  Tabernacle  connexion.  He  had  been 
ordained  to  the  work  of  the  ministry  in  Lady  Huntingdon's 
connexion,  at  Spafields Chapel,  March  9,  1783,  and  was  assistant 
there  and  master  of  the  charity-school  for  some  years.  This 
respected  and  useful  servant  of  Christ  entered  into  the  joy  of 
his  Lord,  April  22,  1808.  Some  years  previous  to  his  death, 
the  Rev.  John  Hyatt,  then  of  Frome,  was  invited  as  a  supply 
to  the  Tabernacle  and  Tottenham-Court  Chapel.  His  talents 
arrested  the  attention  of  the  congregations,  and  the  declining 
health  of  Mr.  Knight  induced  tne  managers  to  consider  Mr. 
Hyatt  as  a  suitable  person  to  become  a  stated  minister  in  the 
Connexion.  This  invitation  was  given  to  him  with  unanimity, 
an4  acceptpd  on  bis  part  with  cordiality,     On  this  immense 


SELINAy   COUKTESg  OF   HUKTINODON.  915 

field  he  entered,  and  here  for  twenty  years  he  laboured,  finish- 
ing his  course  January  30,  1826*  His  venerable  colleague, 
Mr.  Wilks,  survived  him  till  January,  1829.  His  last  audible 
expressions  were  uttered  when  his  friend  Mr.  Townsend  in- 
formed him  that  they  hiid  fulfilled  his  wish,  and  thought  it 
would  relieve  his  mind  to  know  that  all  was  arranged  with  Mr* 
Campbell  to  succeed  him :  he  lifted  up  his  hand,  and  exclaimed 
softly,  «  Thank  God  !     God  be  praised  I— that  is  well  I" 

During  Mr.  Whitefield's  life-time  the  management  of  his 
chapels  was  frequently  committed  to  a  few  trusty  friends. 
Amongst  them  we  find  the  names  of  Robert  Cnittenden,  Esq.^ 
Charles  Hardy,  Esq.,  Robert  Keene,  Esq.,  and  Mr.  Beckman^a 
man  of  great  integrity  and  worth,  and  often  mentioned  in  the 
letters  of  Mr.  Whitefield  and  Mr.  Berridge.  Whilst  absent  m 
America,  in  1 764,  the  affairs  of  the  Tabernacle  and  Tottenham- 
Court  Chapel  were  in  the  hands  of  Messrs.  Keene,*  Hardy,  and 
Beckham.     <*  Three  such  friends  (says  he)  surely  could  not  be 

1  licked  out  for  the  London  affairs."  Two  years  previous  to  his 
ast  voyage  to  America  he  formed  the  determination  of  making 
a  final  arrangement  of  his  chapels,  and  all  that  he  possessed  in 
England.  In  a  letter  to  Mr.  Keene,  dated  November  27,  1767, 
he  savs : — 

<'  As  another  voyage,  perhaps,  may  be  the  issue  and  result  of  all  at 
lost,  I  would  beg  you  and  dear  Mr.  Hardy  to  let  me  have  my  papers 
and  letters,  that  I  may  revise  and  dispose  of  every  thing  in  a  proper 
manner.  This  con  do  no  hurt,  come  life  or  come  death,  or  whether  I 
stay  at  home  or  go  abroad." 

In  the  order  of  Divine  Providence  there  is  a  strange  combi- 
nation of  circumstances,  by  which  what  is  appointed  is  brought 
to  pass.  In  the  same  year  died  Mr.  Whitefield,  the  Rev.  Howel 
Davics,  rector  of  Prengast,  near  Haverfordwest,  the  head  of 
Calvin  istic  Methodism  in  Pembrokeshire,  and  the  Rev.  Thomas 
Adam<^,  minister  of  the  Tabernacle  at  Rodborou^h,  the  leader 
of  the  same  cause  in  Gloucestershire  and  mlts,  and  Mr. 
Whitefield's  only  surviving  first  fellow-labourer,  to  each  of 
whom  he  had  bequeathed  a  small  legacy.  Though  the  Tabernacle 
at  Bristol  was  under  Mr.  Whitefield  s  auspices,  yet,  strange  to 
say,  in  his  will  we  do  not  find  the  «least  mention  of  it.  The 
trustees  in  London  offered  to  befriend  it,  but  would  not  accept 

*  WhQtt  in  America  at  tliis  time.  Mr.  Whitefield  wis  presented  with  a  por- 
trait of  himsdf,  done  by  apainter  at  New  York.  He  lent  it  to  Enciand  bf^tm 
Philadelphia  packet*  mreeted  to  Bfr.  Keene*  and  in  the  letter  whieh  aoeoaii.. 
paoiedit  he  tayt  :-^*' The  nainter  whonve  it  me  having  now  the  ague  and 
teTer,  and  liTihg  a  hwidred  miles  off,  I  must  get  you  to  ha^e  the  drapeir 
finished,  and  th^  if  judged  proper,  let  it  be  put  up  in  the  Tabermili  ftn^owtr 


216  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  Of 

it  as  a  part  of  their  charge.  The  Honourable  James  Haber- 
sham was  appointed  executor  for  his  affairs  in  the  province 
of  Georgia,  and  Messrs.  Hardy,  West,  and  Keenc  for  those 
in  England. 

Having  by  his  will  left  both  of  his  places  of  worship  in  Lon- 
don, his  houses,  library,  and  all  things  appertaining  tnereto,  to 
ttco  of  his  executors,  in  survivorship,  Mr.  West  and  Mr.  Keene, 
they  were  enabled,  through  the  abundant  goodness  of  God,  to 
carry  on  the  work  in  the  same  manner  as  in  Mr.  Whitefield's 
life-time,  without  the  least  diminution  either  of  the  largeness  of 
the  congregations,  or  the  visible  power  of  God  attending  the 
ministry  of  those  faithful  men  who  laboured  for  them.  Two 
persons  could  not  have  been  more  happily  associated  than  Mr. 
West  and  Mr.  Keene.  They  were  always  regular  and  exact  in 
the  discharge  of  the  weighty  duties  that  devolved  upon  them. 
An  uninterrupted  harmony  cuaracterised  all  their  public  trans- 
actions. It  was  now  their  study  to  conciliate  the  affections  of 
the  ministers,  to  promote  the  glory  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  the 
spiritual  interests  of  the  congregations ;  and  they  had  the  hap- 
piness to  see  the  ])leasure  of  the  Lord  prosper  m  their  hands. 
The  late  Mr.  Berridge,  who  had  a  very  high  regard  for  them, 
when  speaking  of  them,  says : — 

^  Could  I  discover  lucrative  views  in  them,  as  much  as  I  love  tbe 
Tabernacle  (that  old  bee-hive  which  has  iillcu  many  bee-hives  with 
her  swarms),  I  would  visit  her  no  longer.  But  the  more  I  know  of  the 
trustees,  the  more  I  am  confirmed  in  their  integrity,  which  Uiey  will 
give  a  proof  of  shortly,  by  adopting  Dr.  Ford  as  a  third  trustee." 

This  was  in  the  year  1777.  From  this,  as  well  as  from  other 
circumstances,  it  would  appear  that  the  Doctor,  being  known  as 
a  preacher  and  trustee  in  Lady  Huntingdon's  connexion,  was 
associated  with  Messrs.  West  and  Keene  in  the  Tabernacle 
trust.  After  the  mournful  difference  between  her  ladyship  and 
Mr.  Wills,  in  1788,  some  propositions  were  made  relative  to  a 
union  between  the  two  connexions,  but  of  what  nature,  or  to 
what  extent  we  have  no  information.  Mr.  Berridge,  the  mutual 
friend  of  both,  appears  to  have  been  a  chief  instrument  in  ne- 
gotiating this  affair.  Lady  Huiftingdon  being  in  London,  in 
September,  1788,  commissioned  Mr.  Berridge,  then  residing  at 
the  Tabernacle  House,  to  propose  the  intended  plan,  the  fulfil- 
ment of  which  she  seems  to  have  had  much  at  heart.  But  the 
only  document  we  have  been  enabled  to  procure  which  throws 
any  light  on  the  subject,  is  a  short  letter  from  Mr.  Berridge 
to  her  Ladyship,  It  is  dated  Tabernacle  House,  September 
25, 1778;— 


SELINA)  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  217 

'^  My  Lady, — My  cars  are  so  deaf,  that  I  can  hear  nothing  without 
bawling,  as  Mr.  Dupont*  knows  to  his  sorrow,  which  makes  a  visit 
very  troublesome  to  others  and  disagreeable  to  myself.  On  this  ac- 
count I  thought  it  more  advisable  to  send  you  in  a  lett-er  what  has 
been  shouted  into  my  ears  by  the  trustees,  than  to  wait  upon  you  in 
person,  and  the  message  I  have  to  communicate  is  this  :  '  When  Dr. 
Ford  returns  to  London,  a  fortnight  hence^  the  trustees  will  consider  of 
the  proposal  made  to  them  by  Mr.  Dupont  and  others.' 

"  I  was  grieved  to  hear  of  Mr.  Wills's  departure  ;  but  our  wise  Jesus 
can  overrule  this  separation  for  his  glory,  as  well  as  that  between  Paul 
and  Barnabas.  I  return  this  week  to  Everton.  May  the  Lord  Jesus 
abide  with  you  and  go  with  me,  and  give  us  both  a  triumphant  exit  at 
lost.    So  praycth  your  affectionate  servant, 

**JoHN  Bbrridge." 

Mr.  Keene  died  on  the  30th  of  January,  1793.  His  name 
deserves  to  be  recorded  in  the  annals  of  the  Church,  as  an 
illustrious  example  of  holiness  and  zeal  in  the  cause  •f  God. 
Mr.  West  survived  him  till  the  30th  of  September,  1796.  He 
was  in  the  70th  year  of  his  age.  His  remains  were  interred 
under  the  communion-table,  in  a  vault  that  contained  the  re- 
mains of  Mrs.  Whitefield,  Mrs.  West,  and  Mr.  Keene.  It  is 
a  singular  circumstance,  that  Mrs,  Whitefield,  Mr.  Keene,  and 
Mrs.  West  all  died  on  the  30th  day  of  the  month,  and  Mr. 
Whitefield  and  Mr.  West  on  the  30th  of  September.  Mr. 
West,  by  his  last  will,  bequeathed  the  management  of  the 
places  to  Samuel  Fovster,  Esq.  and  John  Wilson,  Esq.,  both 
of  whom  are  since  aead.  Mr.  Foyster's  removal  to  another 
world  took  place  February  2, 1805.  He  was  one  of  his  Ma- 
jesty's justices  of  the  peace,  and  was  a  humble,  pious,  and 
peaceable  Christian,  and  an  ornament  to  his  religious  pro- 
fession. 

The  ministers  who  supplied  immediately  after  Mr.  White- 
field's  death  were  Mr.  Berridge,  Mr.  Green,  Mr.  Elliott,  Mr. 
Piercy,  Mr.  Rowlands,  Mr.  Shirley,  Mr.  De  Courcy,  Mr.  Hill, 
Mr.  Owen,  Dr.  Peckwell,  Dr.  Illingworth,  Mr.  West — all  cler- 
gymen ;  and  Mr.  Kinsman,  Mr.  Medley,  Mr.  Edwards,  Mr. 
Scott,  Mr.  Titus  Kniglit,  Mr.  Heath,  Mr.  Winter,  Mr.  Beck, 
Mr.  Ashburner,  Mr.  Durant,  and  a  long  list  of  worthy  clergy- 
men and  Dissenting  Ministers  from  the  country,  who  esteemed 

*  Mr.  Matthias  Peter  Dupont,  from  the  first  openine  of  Spafields  chapel  as 
a  place  of  worship,  was  one  of  its  managers.  He  was  uso  a  principal  means  of 
introducing  the  Uospel  to  Enfield  and  its  neighbourhood,  and  of  erecting  a 
chapel  in  the  Chase-side  ;  and  was  one  of  the  original  trustees  appointed  by 
Lady  Huntingdon  for  her  College.  He  died  at  his  house  in  Canonbury-Uuie, 
Islington,  November  2;  1816,  three  weeks  before  bis  old  and  intimate  friend, 
Mrs.  Peckwell.    He  was  in  lus  70th  year. 


918  Tttt  tXn  AND  TIMES  Ol> 

it  their  privilege  to  preach  to  every  large,  serious,  and  attentive 
Congregationsi  whose  hearts  were  fillea  with  thankfulness,  and 
at  the  same  time  engaged  in  prayer  for  every  such  minister  of 
Christ ;  and  an  unusual  blessing  commonly  attended  both  the 
sowers  and  reapers.  It  was  the  desire  of  the  managers  to  let 
the  pulpits  be  open  to  every  disinterested  minister  tnat  might 
occasionally  visit  Liondon,  of  good  moral  character,  sound  in  the 
iaith,  of  moderate  Calvinistic  principles,  without  distinction  of 
parties  or  denominations,  whose  talents  were  suitable  to  preach 
with  life  and  power  to  overflowing  congregations. 

Here  let  us  pause,  and  lift  our  hearts  in  thankfulness  to  the 
great  Head  of  the  Church,  for  the  plenteous  harvest  of  immor- 
tal souls  that  hath  been  gathered  to  the  true  Shiloh  in  these 
highly-favoured  chapels.  The  benediction  of  the  Spirit  seems 
to  have  rested  in  a  peculiar  manner  on  the  labours  of  the  minis- 
ters ofi  Christ  in  these  vast  fields  of  usefulness.  They  were 
men  of  renown  in  their  day,  who,  through  evil  report  and  ^od 
report,  preached  the  everlasting  Gospel,  and  were  as  distin- 
guished by  the  success  which  crowned  their  labours,  as  by  the 
zeal  and  ability  with  which  they  performed  them.  This  noble 
army  of  confessors  are  now  before  the  throne.  The  great 
Captain  of  Salvation  hath  called  them  to  their  eternal  reward. 
May  their  surviving  brethren  catch  a  glowing  spark  of  the  flame 
of  zQal  which  animated  these  men  of  Qod,  imitate  their  excel- 
lencies, avoid  their  infirmities,  and  leave  behind  them  a  memory 
as  blessed,  and  a  monument  as  enduring,  in  the  hearts  of  thou- 
sands converted  by  their  ministrations  T  Such  were  the  men 
"  whom  the  Lord  delighted  to  honour."  Happy  shall  we  be 
if  counted  worthy  to  sit  at  their  feet  in  Chnst  s  kingdom  of 
eternal  glory  ! 


8ELINA,   COtmttSS  OF  KUMTIVODON.  Hl^ 


CHAPTER  XIII. 

Mr.  Venn  begins  to  attract  Notice.^ReTivEl  of  Religion  in  the  Established 
Church  and  among  the  Methodists— By  whom  first  commenced—Mr.  Venn*! 
Acquaintance  with  Mr.  Broughton — Mr.  Broughton  one  of  the  original  Me« 
thodists — Dr.  Haweis— Mr.  Law— Illness  of  Mr.  Venn — Accompanies  Mr. 
Whitefield  to  Bristol— Remains  with  Lady  Huntingdon  at  Clifton-^Letter 
from  Mr.  Whitefield — Letter  to  Mr.  Venn  from  Lady  Huntingdon — Mr. 
Whitefield's  letter  to  Mr.  Venn— Oxford  Students— Dr.  Haweis— Mr.  White- 
field's  letter  to  Dr.  Haweis— Convicts^-Preaching  to  the  Nobility  at  Lady 
Huntingdon's  —  Handel — Giardini-^Musical  Composers. 

That  faithful  and  able  servant  of  our  Lord^  the  Rev.  Henry 
Venn,  had  now  commenced  his  useful  ministry  as  curate  of 
Clapham,  and  served  three  lectureships  in  the  city.  At  Clap* 
ham  he  became  intimately  acquainted  with  the  late  excellent 
and  benevolent  John  Thornton^  Esq.,  then  a  young  man  of  deep 

Eiety,  and  rising  rapidly  into  notice.  At  his  house  Mr.  Venn 
ad  many  opportunities  of  meeting  Lady  Huntingdon  and  Mr. 
Whitefield,  wliose  ardent  and  disinterested  zeal,  so  successfully 
employed  in  the  service  of  their  great  Master,  conduced  to  lead 
him  t6  clearer  views  of  divine  truth.  Mr.  Whitefield  frequently 
expounded  at  Mr.  Thornton's  to  overflowing  assemblies,  and 
on  such  occasions  Mr.  Venn  was  always  present.  To  Miss 
Gideon,  the  friend  and  correspondent  of  Mr.  Venn,  Mr.  White* 
field  writes : — <*  At  both  ends  of  the  town  the  word  runs  and  is 
glorified.  The  champions  in  the  Church  go  on  like  sons  of 
thunder.  I  am  to  be  at  Clapham  this  evening :  Mr.  Venn  will 
gladly  embrace  the  first  opportunity.     May  it  be  a  Bethel  I" 

The  venerable  names  of  Romaine,  Venn,  Adams,  Walker  (of 
Truro,)  and  others,  will  lon^be  remembered  as  among  the  early 
and  honoured  instruments  employed  by  Almighty  God  to  rouse 
a  slumbering  church  from  its  lethargy,  and  to  revive  the  cause 
of  vital  religion  at  a  period  when  the  doctrines  of  the  Reforma- 
tion were  almost  forgotten,  and  Christianity  had  become  little 
better  than  a  name. 

The  unauestionable  excellence  of  their  character,  and  the 
extent  of  tneir  usefulness,  add  greatly  to  the  importance  of  their 
history ;  and  the  more  we  venerate  and  admire  the  devotedness 
to  God,  the  more  desirous  we  become  to  learn  something  of  the 
commencement  and  progress  of  the  work  of  divine  grace  upon 
their  minds,  and  the  special  dealings  of  Providence  in  leading 
them  to  spheres  of  usenilness. 

God  sends  by  whom  he  will  send;  but  it  has  been  the 
infirmity  even  of  good  men,  and  I  ft^r  it  has  not  ceaaed  to  be 


999  Tm  hlWE  AND  nUBS  OF 

and  some  of  them  belonged  to  Methodist  families,  and  were  the 
personal  friends  of  the  great  leaders  of  both  connexions. 

If  what  God  has  wrought  be  but  duly  acknowledged,  we  are 
not  at  all  anxious  to  determine  the  respective  claims  of  the 
first  instruments ;  nor  would  we  wish  to  deprive  the  respected 
dergy  of  the  Establishment  of  what  they  seem  to  value  so  highly, 
the  privilege  of  being  perfectly  independent  of  the  instrumen- 
tality of  Methodism.  Whether  there  were,  as  is  affirmed,  ^^  two 
kindred,  but  separate  and  independent,  streams  of  light,"  pro- 
ceeding from  tne  same  source,  but  ^^  flowing  in  two  distinct 
channels,"  one  descending  on  the  Methodists,  and  the  ether  upon 
the  Church ;  or  whether  the  heavenly  influence  is  to  be  regarded 
as  forming  one  general  intervention  of  Divine  mercy,  for  the 
revival  and  spread  of  vital  religion  throughout  the  land,  we  leave 
to  the  judgment  of  the  reader.  Whatever  interest  may  be 
attached  to  the  distinction  by  sectarian  prejudice,  we  cannot 
persuade  ourselves  that  its  importance  is  recognized  either  by 
the  Head  of  the  Church,  or  by  those  great  and  good  men  whom 
He  so  signally  honoured.  They  have  long  since  ca^t  their 
crowns  at  the  feet  of  Him  to  whom  they  were  indebted  for  the 
whole  of  their  success ;  and  who  alone  caused  them  to  "  triiiiii])h 
in  Christ,"  in  making  "  manifest  the  savour  of  his  knowledge  by 
them  in  every  place." 

One  thing,  however,  is  too  well  known  to  admit  of  dispute, 
that  previous  to  the  appearance  of  the  Messrs.  Wesley  and 
Whitefield,  and  the  extraordinary  eflects  produced  by  their 
ministry,  the  public  attention  had  in  no  degree  been  called  to 
any  description  of  ministers  in  the  Establishment  who  inculcated 
the  evangelical  doctrines  and  excited  observation  by  the  fruit 
of  their  labours.  It  was  not  until  several  years  after  the  foriucr 
had  become  extensively  known,  both  by  their  preachin»r  and 
writings,  that  a  few  individuals  of  the  clergy  were  recognih^ed  as 
having  embraced  similar  sentiments,  and  as  bemg  zealously  and 
successfully  employed  in  calling  sinners  to  repentance. 

How  far  it  may  please  God  to  communicate  the  light  of  his 
truth,  or  the  influence  of  his  grace  by  particular  means  ur 
instruments,  cannot  be  determined  by  man.  We  venture  to 
believe  that  the  water  of  life  retains  its  virtue  by  whatever  channel 
it  may  be  communicated. 

In  the  darkest  times  that  the  Church  of  England  has  known, 
when  the  light  of  evangelical  truth  seemed  nearly  extinguished, 
the  Bible  exhibited  the  same  divine  truths  as  at  present :  the 
Articles,  the  Liturgy,  and  the  Homilies,  contained  the  same 
spiritual  doctrines,  and  all  that  beauty  and  excellence  which 
have  been  since  found  in  them ;  and  yet  the  land  continued  to 


SELINA^  C0UNTIK9«  OF  HVNTIHOPOK.  {223 

be  overspread  with  the  shadow  of  death,  until  it  pleafied  God 
to  raise  up  living  witnesses,  clothed  with  his  own  power,  and  to 
send  them  forth  to  proclaim  to  sinners  the  Gospel  of  salvation} 
He  himself  giving  *^  testimony  to  the  word  of  his  grace.'' 

Mr.  Venn,  when  he  ceased  to  reside  in  College,  accepted  the 
curacy  of  a  Mr.  Langley,  who  held  the  livings  of  St.  Matthew, 
Friday-street,  London,  and  West  Horsley,  near  Guildford,  in 
Surrey.      His  duty  was  to  serve  the  church  in  London  during 
part  of  the  summer,  and  to  reside  the  remainder  of  the  year  at 
Horsley.      His  duties  in  London  brought  him  in  contact  with 
the  Rev.  Bryan  Broughton,  Secretary  to  the  Society  for  Pro- 
moting Christian  Knowledge,  and  this  was  probably  one  of  the 
most  important  events  of  his  life ;  for  Mr.  Broughton  was  one 
of  the  original  band  of  Methodists  at  Oxford,  and  the  corre^ 
spondent,  associate,  and  fellow-labourer  of  Mr.  Whitefield  and 
the  Wesleys :  and  it  is  extremely  probable  that  he  was  one  of 
the  first,  if  not  the  very  first,  who  directed  the  attention  of  Mr. 
Venn  to  the  important  concerns  of  eternity.     About  the  same 
time  Mr.  Law's  *'  Serious  CalP'  made  a  deep  and  lasting  im- 
pression on  his  mind.      He  read  and  read  again  this  pleasing 
and  most  unanswerable  advocate  for  the  reasonableness  and 
dignity  of  a  life  of  holiness ;  and  set  himself  diligently  to  con^ 
form  to  his  prescriptions  of  rigid  weekly  ftistings  and  prayer, 
and  keeping  a  daily  journal  of  his  thoughts,  words,  and  deeds. 
Thus  impressed  with  Mr.  Law's  **  Call,"  we  need  not  say  with 
what  eagerness  he  seized  on  his  ^'  Spirit  of  Prayer"  as  soon  as  it 
appeared ;  but  his  disappointment  was  equal  to  his  ardour,  when 
he  found  the  atonement  of  Christ,  of  which  he  had  now  begun 
to  feel  his  need,  was  degraded  into  annihilation ;  and  a  some- 
thing crucified  within,  represented  as  the  only  satisfaction  due 
for  sin. 

At  this  critical  period  a  friend  from  Oxford,  the  late  venerable 
Dr.  Haweis,  whom  he  had  pressed  to  spend  some  time  with  him 
at  Clapham,  visited  him,  and  commenced  a  friendship  and  cor- 
respondence that  ceased  only  with  his  life.  As  the  Doctor  was 
a  convert  of  that  revered  name,  Mr.  Walker,  of  Truro,  be  was 
firmly  established  in  the  principles  of  free  grace,  now  generally 
termed  Calvinistic.  Hence  naturally  arose  much  candid  inves- 
tigation of  the  subject:  both  were  conscious  they  sincerely 
meant  the  glory  of  God,  and  the  salvation  of  men's  souls ;  both 
were  active  labourers  in  the  vineyard,  and  both  esteemed  the 
religion  of  the  heart  as  only  fundamental ;  yet  both  being  well 
informed,  their  friendly  disputes  entered  deeply  into  the  con- 
sideration of  all  the  scriptures  on  the  subject,  without  any  imme- 
diate, considerable  change  of  sentinoenU  <'  Allow  me,  my  dear 
Haweis  (said  Mr.  Venn),  to  be  something  more  than  a  stone." 


224  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

The  manner  in  which  he  canvassed  the  subject  in  debate  mani* 
fested  no  aversion  to  receive  the  divine  truth  as  far  as  he  discovered 
it  He  searched  the  Scriptures  daily  if  those  things  were  so, 
and  every  day  grew  more  disposed  to  acknowledge  the  impotence 
and  guilt  of  man,  and  the  sovereignty  of  the  grace  of  God.  He 
set  himself  vigorously  to  preach  what  he  believed,  which  he  did 
four  or  five  times  a-week  at  his  cure  and  lectureships,  besides  his 
private  exhortations  among  his  friends.  His  ministry  was  much 
attended  and  greatly  blessed,  many  calling  him  Father,  as  being 
begotten  by  him  in  the  Gospel.  Though  he  generally  preached 
wntten  sermons,  yet  he  first  perhaps  of  any  of  the  Church  minis- 
ters of  that  day  broke  through  the  bondage  of  reading,  and  com- 
menced a  free  address  to  the  conscience.  In  this  he  preceded 
Mr.  Romaine,  whose  name  and  ministry  about  the  same  time 
attracted  more  general  notice. 

Mr.  Venn  had  not  been  long  at  Clapham  before  he  was  at- 
tacked by  a  severe  illness,  which  incapacitated  him  for  duty  for 
several  months.  This,  however,  was  a  most  useful  season  to  him. 
He  had  time  to  reflect  upon  his  principles  and  his  conduct ;  and 
he  used  to  observe,  that  after  that  period  he  was  no  longer  able 
to  preach  the  sermons  which  he  had  previously  composed.  His 
views  of  eternal  things  had  now  become  clearer — his  meditations 
on  the  attributes  of  God  more  profound — his  views  of  the  great- 
ness of  the  salvation  of  Christ  more  distinct ;  and  the  whole  of 
his  religion  had  received  that  tincture  of  more  elevated  devotion 
which  rendered  his  conversation  and  his  preaching  doubly  in- 
structive. Just  at  this  period  Mr.  Whitefield  induced  Mr.  Venn 
to  accompany  him  and  Mr.  Madan  on  a  preaching  excursion 
into  Gloucestershire.  At  Bristol  immense  crowds  attended 
whenever  they  proclaimed  the  glad  tidings  of  salvation.  "Seven 
gospel  ministers  (says  Mr.  Whitefield)  were  together  at  Bristol 
when  the  Counsellor  (Mr.  Madan)  preached."  During  Mr. 
Venn's  st^  in  Gloucestershire  he  was  hospitably  entertained 
at  Lady  Huntingdon's  residence  at  Clifton.  Mr.  Madan  and 
Mr.  Howel  Davies,  then  supplying  the  Tabernacle  at  Bristol, 
were  likewise  at  her  Ladyship's  house.  The  conversation  of 
Lady  Huntingdon,  and  those  devoted  men  by  whom  she  was  sur- 
rounded, was  attended  with  the  happiest  results  to  Mr.  Venn. 
The  light  of  Divine  truth  burst  through  the  darkness  in  which 
his  mind  had  been  involved,  and  he  now  strenuously  laboured  to 
extend,  by  every  means  in  his  power,  the  knowledge  whiclj  had 
been  imparted  to  him.  The  salvation  of  souls  excited  his  watch- 
fulness, nis  prayers,  and  his  zeal ;  and  in  his  whole  life  he  was 
an  "  epistle  of  Christ,  known  and  read  of  all  men."  Governed 
by  a  disinterested  concern  for  the  everlasting  welfare  of  the 


SELINA)  COUNTESS  OF   HUNTINGDON.  225 

souls  committed  to  his  charge,  he  was  "  instant  in  season,  and 
out  of  season;  reproving,  rebuking,  and  exhorting,  with  all  long- 
suflTering  and  gentleness" — 

'^  And,  as  a  bird  each  fond  endearment  tries 
To  tempt  its  new  fledged  offspring  to  the  skies ; 
He  tried  each  art,  reproved  each  dull  delay. 
Allured  to  brighter  worlds  and  led  the  way." 

In  a  letter  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  written  at  this  time,  Mr. 
Whitefield  says: — 

"  The  worthy  Venn  is  valiant  for  the  truth — a  son  of  thunder.  He 
labours  abundantly,  and  his  ministry  has  been  owned  of  the  Lord  in 
the  conversion  of  sinners.  Thanks  be  to  God  for  such  an  instrument 
as  this  to  strengthen  our  hands  I  I  know  the  intelligence  will  rejoice 
your  Ladyship.  Your  exertions  in  bringing  him  to  a  clearer  knowl  edge 
of  the  everlasting  Gospel  have  indeed  been  blessed.  He  owes  your 
Ladyship  rnuch^  under  God,  and  I  believe  his  whole  soul  is  gratitude 
to  the  Divine  author  of  his  mercies  and  to  you,  the  honoured  instru- 
ment in  leading  him  to  the  fountain  of  truth." 

«> 

That  the  noble  Countess  was  the  instrument  of  much  good 

to  Mr.  Venn,  is  obvious  from  Mr.  Whitefield's  letter ;  and  is 
moreover  confirmed  by  an  extract  from  one  addressed  by  her 
Ladyship  to  Mr.  Venn,  soon  after  his  return  to  his  charge  at 
Clapham.  After  remonstrating  with  him  on  the  tenor  of  some 
of  his  discourses,  her  Ladyship  adds : — 

''  0,  my  fnend !  we  can  make  no  atonement  to  a  violated  law — we 
have  no  inward  holiness  of  our  own — the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Lord 
our  Righteousness.  Cling  not  to  such  beggarly  elements — such  filthy 
rags — mere  cobwebs  of  Pharisaical  pride — but  look  to  him  who  hath 
wrought  out  a  perfect  righteousness  for  his  people.  You  find  it  a 
hard  task  to  come  naked  and  miserable  to  Christ — to  come,  divested  of 
every  recommendation  but  that  of  abject  wretchedness  and  misery,  and 
receive  from  the  outstretched  hand  of  our  divine  Immanuel  the  riches, 
the  super-abounding  riches  of  redeeming  grace.  But  if  you  come  at 
all,  you  must  come  thus,  and  hke  the  dying  thief,  the  cry  of  your  heart 
must  be,  '  Lord^  remember  me'  There  must  be  no  conditions — Christ 
and  Christ  alone^  must  be  the  only  Mediator  between  God  and  sinful 
men — no  miserable  performances  can  be  placed  between  the  sinner 
and  the  Saviour.  Let  the  eye  of  faith  ever  be  directed  to  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ ;  and  I  beseech  him  to  bring  every  thought  of  your  heart 
into  captivity  to  the  obedience  of  our  great  High  Priest. 

*'  And  now,  my  dear  friend,  no  longer  let  false  doctrine  disgrace 
your  pulpit.  Preach  Christ  crucified  as  the  only  foundation  of  the  sin- 
ner's hope.  Preach  him  as  the  Author  and  Finisher,  as  well  as  the  sole 
object  of  faith— that  faith  which  is  the  gift  of  God.  Exhort  Christless 
impenitent  sinnners  to  fly  to  this  city  of  refuge — to  look  to  him  who  is 
exalted  as  Prince  and  a  Saviour^  to  give  repentance  and  the  remission 

VOL.  I. — Q 


226  THE  LIFE  AXB  TIMES  OP 

of  sins.  Go  on  thus,  and  may  ytrar  bow  abide  in  stiei^ih  I  Be  bold 
•^be  firm — be  decisiTe.  Let  Christ  be  the  Alpha  and  Om^a  of  ail 
you  advance  in  your  addresses  to  your  fellow-men.  Leare  the  con- 
sequences with  your  divine  master.  He  will  be  with  his  faithful  minis- 
ters to  the  end  of  time.  May  his  gracious  benediction  rest  upon  your 
labours !  and  may  you  be  blessed  to  the  conversion  of  very  many,  who 
shall  be  your  joy  and  crown  of  rejoicing  in  the  great  day  when  the  Lord, 
the  righteous  Judge^  shall  appear.** 

About  this  period  considerable  attention  was  paid  to  the 
subject  of  religion  hy  many  students  in  the  University  of 
Oxford.  Lady  Huntingdon,  in  a  letter  to  Mr.  Stillingfleet, 
mentions  prayer-meetings  as  very  common  among  the  students. 
<<  I  am  really  rejoiced  (said  her  Ladyship)  that  so  many  at  the 
Universities  are  determined  to  be  on  the  Lord's  side.  May 
they  be  kept  faithful  and  steady !"  Mr.  Whitefield  likewise 
takes  notice  of  the  awakening  at  Oxford  in  particular :  <<  Many 
(says  he)  in  Oxford  are  awakened  to  the  knowledge  of  the  truth  ;^ 
and  again,  "  Many  students  at  Oxford  are  eamestlv  learning 
Christ." 

Amongst  the  number  of  those  who  stood  forth  in  the  midst 
of  abounding  reproach  and  hostility,  and  bore  a  fearless  and 
feithful  testunony  to  the  grace  and  atonement  of  the  Re- 
deemer, was  the  late  venerable  Dr.  Haweis,  who  had  entered 
the  University  as  a  student  and  gentleman  commoner  of 
Christ  Church,  but  afterwards  removed  to  Magdalen  Hall. 
Early  in  life  he  was  awakened  under  the  powerful  ministry  of 
that  good  man,  Mr.  Walker,  of  Truro.  Mr.  WTiitefield,  hear- 
ing of  the  zeal  and  the  success  attending  his  labours  at  Oxford, 
and  accidentally  seeing  a  letter  of  his  to  a  correspondent  at 
Bristol,  determined  to  write  to  him,  and  endeavour  to  strengthen 
his  hands  in  the  great  cause. 

The  following  letter  contains  some  useful  hints  to  young 
ministers  and  candidates  for  the  ministry;  and  is  peculiarly 
valuable  as  having  been  addressed  to  one  who,  for  considerably 
more  than  half  a  century  after,  was  destined  by  the  Great 
Head  of  the  Church  to  bear  a  fearless  and  faithful  testimony 
to  the  atonement  and  grace  of  the  Redeemer,  before  a  proud, 
self-righteous,  gainsaying  world : — 

^  To  the  Rev.  Mr.  Haweis,  "  Bristol,  May  20,  1756. 

^  My  very  dear  Sir,— For  so  I  most  address  myself,  having  had 
yon  in  a  peculiar  manner  upon  my  heart,  ever  since  I  saw  and  read 
It  letter  that  came  from  you  some  months  ago.  It  bespoke  the  lan- 
guage of  a  heart  devoted  to  the  ever-living,  ever-lovely  Jesus.  Mrs. 
Senm  confirmed  me  in  this  opinion  yesterday,  and  i;iitbal  told  me^ 
die  belieted  yon  would  be  glad  of  a  line  from  me,  wbo  am  indeed 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  2*27 

less  than  the  least  of  all  saints,  but  willing,  if  I  know  anything  of  my 
own  heart,  to  spend  and  be  spent  for  the  good  of  souls.  They  are 
redeemed  by  the  blood  of  Jesus,  whose  cross,  blessed  be  his  name, 
hath  been  nmde  delightful  to  me  for  some  years.  I  thank  God  that  I 
am  cast  out  for  my  Masters  sake.  Indeed,  my  very  dear  sir,  it  is 
preferable  to  all  other  preferment  whatsoever.  It  is  the  way  to  the 
crown.  Glory  be  to  God  that  there  are  some  young  champions 
coming  forth ;  methinks  I  could  now  sing  my  nunc  dimittis  witli 
triumph  and  joy.*  Though  I  decrease,  may  you,  my  very  dear  sir, 
increase !  O,  that  you  may  be  kept  from  conferring  with  flesh  and 
blood  1  O,  that  you  may  be  o^vned  and  blessed  of  God  !  I  believe 
you  will,  and  never  more  so  than  when  you  are  reviled  and  despised 
by  man.  It  is  a  fatal  mistake  to  think  we  must  keep  our  characters 
in  order  to  be  good ;  this  is  caUed  prudetice — in  most,  I  fear,  it  is 
trimming.  Honesty  I  find  always  to  be  the  best  policy.  Them  who 
honour  Jesus  he  will  honour.  Even  in  this  world,  if  we  confess  to  him, 
his  truth,  and  his  people,  we  shall  receive  a  hundred- fold.  To  lose 
all  in  this  respect  is  to  find  all.  But  whither  am  going  ?  Excuse, 
my  very  dear  sir,  the  oyerflowings  of  a  heart  that  loves  you  dearly  for 
the  glorious  Redeemer's  sake.  I  am  here  preaching  his  cross,  and 
expect  to  stay  over  Sunday.  Next  week  I  have  thouglits  of  being 
at  Bath  and  Westbury.  I  lead  a  pilgrim  life — you  will  pray  that  I 
may  have  a  pilgrim  heart.  Ere  long,  I  hope  my  heavenly  Father  ^vill 
take  me  home.  I  am  ambitious ;  I  want  to  sit  upon  a  throne.  Jesus 
hath  purchased  and  provided  a  throne  in  heaven  for  me.  That  you 
may  have  an  exalted  place  at  his  right  hand,  is,  and  shall  be  the  earnest 
prayer  of,  reverend  and  very  dear  sir,  yours  most  affeetiouately  in  our 
common  Lord,  "  G.  Whitbfield." 

Lady  Huntingdon  had  interested  herself  about  this  time  in 
the  case  of  an  unhappy  youth,  belonging  to  an  honourable  family, 
who  had  been  guilty  of  some  serious  breach  of  the  law,  and  had 
obtained  his  Majesty's  pardon,  through  the  benevolent  exertions 
of  her  Ladyship.  This  young  man  appears  to  have  been  bene- 
fited by  the  mercy  which  had  been  extended  to  him,  and  the 
advice  which  her  Ladyship  had  kindly  given  him.  "  As  I  thought 
it  would  give  your  Ladyship  satisfaction  (says  Mr.  Whitefield), 
I  herein  mclose  the  copies  of  two  letters  sent  from  the  con- 
demned youth,  in  whose  behalf  your  Ladyship  hath  inteq)osed." 
Her  liberality  was  likewise  extended  to  some  convicts,  whom  Mr. 
Wliiteficld  felt  much  interested  about.  On  the  2nd  of  March 
1 767,  we  find  him  writing  thus  to  her  Ladyship : — 

*^  Ever-honoured  Madam,— A  few  days  ago  I  received  the  kuid  bene- 
^tion  for  the  unhappy  convicts.  Not  doubting  of  success,  I  had  advanced 
some  guineas,  wkicn  with  what  hath  been  procured  from  other  hands,  hath 
bought  both  dieir  liberties,  and  they  are  provided  for  on  the  other  side 
of  the  water ;  just  now^  I  believe,  they  are  under  sail.  0  that  he,  who 
I  suppose  w31  DOW  rooeiTe  a  pardon^  was  alike  fiekyottred !  But  not 
Q  2 


228  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

marjy  niJsrlty,  tiot  omny  noWe,  are  calleJ^ — I  bope  tliis  will  not  find 
your  La<]y-hip  ill  of  llie  gooL  May  tbe  Lord  Jesas  bear  aU  yoor 
hickiicss,  and  Leal  all  your  infinnities  both  of  body  and  soul !  I  am 
seii^ibiy  touched  wLen  auytbtog  affects  your  Ladysbip  :  eratitndc  oon- 
straiiiBto  this.  Wbat  ^luJl  I  render  onto  tbe  Lord  for  aU  bis  mercies? 
I  would  preacb  for  Lim,  if  I  could,  a  bundred  times  a  day.  Sardy 
sucb  a  wortliless  worm  was  ncTcr  honoured  to  speak  for  tbe  Redeemer 
before.  Your  Ladysbip  will  excuse  me,  I  must  away,  and  give  a  little 
rent  to  tbe  beart  of,  cTcr-bonoured  Madam,  your  Lady^ip's  moat 
dutiful,  obliged,  and  rcadv  servant,  for  Cbrist's  sake. 

"  G.  Whitefield." 

Lady  Huntingdon  now  arrived  in  London  with  her  family,  and 
S4jon  o{>ened  her  house,  twice  every  week,  for  the  preaching  of 
the  Gospel.  Messrs.  Romaine,  Madan,  and  Venn,  principally 
officiated  at  her  Ladyship's  at  that  time.  "  I  rejoice  (says  Mr. 
Whitcfield)  in  the  increase  of  your  Ladyship's  spiritual  routs. 
I  can  guess  at  the  consolation  such  uncommon  scenes  must 
aObrd  to  your  Ladyship's  new-bom  soul.  No  wonder  you  are 
distressed  from  other  quarters.  Indeed,  my  most  noble  and 
ever-honoured  patroness,  thus  it  must  be.  Christ's  witnesses 
must  l>e  purged  at  home.  Inward  domestic  trials  fit  for  out- 
ward public  worL  Nature  recoils,  when  constrained  to  take  the 
cross,  and  it  may  be  from  a  near  and  dear  relation's  hand ;  but 
infinite  wisdom  knows  what  is  best." 

Amongst  the  great  and  fashionable  who  attended  at  Lady 
Huntingdon's  house  during  the  season,  we  find  the  names  of  many 
who  made  some  figure  in  the  circles  of  the  great ;  as  the  Duchess 
of  Bedford,  Duchess  of  Grafton,  Lady  Jane  Scott,  Lord  and 
Lady  Dacre,  Mr.  and  Lady  Anne  Connolly,  Lady  Elizabeth 
Keppel,  Lady  Betty  Waldegrave,  Lady  Coventry,  Lord  Wey- 
moutli,  Lonf  Tavistock,  Lady  Charlotte  Edwin,  Duchess  of 
Hamilton,  Duchess  of  Richmond,  Lady  Ailesbury,  Lord  and 
Lady  Hertford,  Lady  Townshend,  Lord  Trafford,  Lord  North- 
am|)ton.  Lady  Hervey,  Lady  Pembroke,  Lady  Northumberland, 
Lady  Rebecca  Paulet,  Lord  Edgecumbe,  Lord  Lyttleton,  Mrs. 
Shirley,  mother  of  the  unfortunate  Lord  Ferrers,  &c.  &c.  &c 
Lady  Essex  and  Mrs.  Charles  Yorke,  both  of  whom  had  fre- 
c|ucntly  attended  at  her  Ladyship's  house,  died  rather  suddenly, 
at  this  time,  of  sore  throats.  The  circumstance  caused  consder- 
jiblc  sensation  amongst  a  numerous  circle ;  and  the  awful  provi- 
dence was  improved  by  Mr.  Whitefield  on  his  arrival  in  London. 
Lady  Thanet's  decease  had  preceded  that  of  Lady  Essex  and 
Mrs.  Yorke.  When  Lady  Huntingdon  heard  of  her  illness,  she 
sent  to  offer  her  to  come  and  prepare  her  for  the  last  solemn 
hour :  but  Lady  Thanet  sent  her  word  it  was  in  vain,  for  she 
could  neither  be  prepared  to  live  or  die.    Her  great  care  upon  her 


SELIKA,   COUNTESS    OF    HUNTINGDON.  229 

death-bed  was  the  fear  of  being  buried  alive ;  to  prevent  which  she 
ordered  herself  not  to  be  t.iken  out  of  her  bed  for  twelve  days. 

The  acquaintance  which  Lady  Huntingdon  had  formed  in 
early  life  with  the  celebrated  Handel,  after  being  suspended  for 
some  considerable  number  of  years,  was  renewed  about  this 
time.  Handel  now  found  himself  fast  declining,  and  considered 
his  recovery  as  hopeless.  The  loss  of  his  sight,  and  the  prospect 
of  his  approaching  dissolution,  made  a  great  change  in  his  tem- 
per and  general  behaviour.  He  became  a  man  of  blameless  morals, 
and  throughout  his  after-hfe  manifested  a  deep  sense  of  reli- 
gion. In  conversation  he  would  frequently  speak  of  the  pleasure 
he  had  experienced  in  setting  the  Scriptures  to  music,  and  how 
much  some  of  the  sublime  passages  of  the  Psalms  had  contri- 
buted to  his  comfort  and  satisfaction.  And  now,  when  he  found 
himself  drawing  near  the  close  of  his  mortal  state,  those  senti- 
ments were  improved  into  solid  and  rational  piety,  attended  by  a 
calm  and  undisturbed  mind.  The  course  of  his  life  was  regular 
and  uniform.  For  some  years  after  his  arrival  in  England  his 
time  was  divided  between  study  and  practice,  that  is  to  say, 
betwixt  composing  pieces  of  music,  and  conducting  concerts  at 
the  Duke  of  Rutland's,  the  Earl  of  Burhngton's,  the  Earl  of 
Huntingdon's,  and  the  houses  of  others  of  the  nobility  who  were 
patrons  of  music  and  his  friends.  His  Httle  foibles,  of  which  his 
biographers  have  made  much,  appear  to  have  been  the  incidental 
errors  of  his  time  and  nation.* 

Not  long  before  his  death  Lady  Huntingdon  saw  him,  at  his 

E articular  request  **  I  have  had  a  most  pleasing  interview  (says 
er  Ladyship)  with  Handel — an  interview  which  I  shall  not 
soon  forget.  He  is  now  old,  and  at  the  close  of  his  long  career ; 
yet  he  is  not  dismayed  at  the  prospect  before  him.  Blessed 
be  God  for  the  comforts  and  consolations  which  the  Gospel 
affords  in  every  situation,  and  in  every  time  of  our  need  !  Mr. 
Madan  has  been  with  him  often,  and  he  seems  much  attached 
to  him."  Handel  died  in  April,  1759.  Over  the  place  of  his 
interment,  in  Westminster  Abbey,  was  erected  a  monument, 
designed  and  executed  by  Roubilliac,  representing  him  at  full 
length,  in  an  erect  posture,  having  a  scroll  in  his  hand,  inscribed 
— "  I  know  that  my  Redeemer  liveth,"  with  the  notes  to  which 
these  words  are  set  in  the  Messiah. 

With  most  of  the  eminent  musicians  of  her  time  Lady  Hunt- 
ingdon was  well  acquainted.  Giardini,  whose  great  taste,  hand, 
and  style  in  playing  on  the  violin,  procured  him  universal  ad- 
miration, was  a  great  favourite  of  her  Ladyship's.     Lady  Ger- 

*  We  grieve  to  say,  that  this  encomium  must  be  aualitied,  as  it  respects  the 
language  of  this  great  man,  at  one  time  of  his  life,  at  least.— -Eo. 


230  THE  LIFE  AKD  TIBfES  OF 

trude  Hotham,  and  Lady  Chesterfield,  who  was  esteemed  one 
of  the  first  private  musicians  of  her  day,  gave  occasional  con- 
certs of  sacred  music  at  their  residences ;  and  there  Giardini's 
performance  on  the  violin,  in  which  at  that  time  he  excelled 
every  other  master  in  Europe,  was  heard  with  the  most  rapturous 
applause,  and  equally  astonished  and  delighted  all  his  auditors* 
At  Lady  Huntingdon's  request  he  composed  a  few  tunes  to 
some  of  the  hymns  used  in  her  chapels ;  and  this  circumstance 
becoming  public,  led  Horace  Walpole  to  say — "  It  will  be  a 
great  acquisition  to  the  Methodist  sect  to  have  their  hymns  set 
by  Giardini."     Some  time  after  he  was  recommended  by  Lady 
Huntingdon  to  the  protection  and  patronage  of  Sir  William 
Hamilton,  whom  he  accompanied  to  Naples.     About  the  same 
period  there  was  another  Italian  musical  composer  and  writer, 
with  a  name  very  similar,  Tomaso  Giordani,  vrith  whom  Lady 
Huntingdon  was  also  acquainted,  and  who  resided  so   many 
years  in  London,  that  he  was  almost  as  well  acquainted  with  the 
English  language  and  English  style  of  music  as  any   indivi- 
dual of  his  time.  -  He  likewise  composed  some  hymn  tunes,  and 
particularly  the  well-known  air  called  "  Cambridge,"  adapted 
to  the  words — "  Father,  how  wide  thy  glory  shines  I"  &c.,  in 
Lady  Huntingdon's  collection.     Mr.  I^ent  of  Winchester,  was 
also  well  known  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  Mr.  Whitefield,  and  the 
Wesleys.     As  a  composer  of  sacred  music,  he  followed  closely 
the  style  of  Dr,  Croft ;    and  few  persons  have  succeeded  better 
than  he  in  that  due  intermixture  of  harmony  and  melody  which 
renders  this  species  of  music  interesting  both  to  learned  and 
unlearned  auoitors.     He  composed  some  popular  anthems  and 
hymn  tunes,  which  have  long  been  in  use  amongst  the  Metho- 
dists :  few  anthems  have  obtained  more  celebrity  than — "  O, 
Lord,  our  Governor,"     "  My  song  shall   be  of  mercy,"  and 
"  Hear  my  prayer." 

Two  of  the  sons  of  Mr.  Charles  Wesley  afforded  a  very  early 
indication  of  musical  genius.  Lady  Huntingdon  was  so  well 
pleased  with  the  eldest,  Charles,  that  she  kindly  offered  her  in- 
terest with  Dr.  Boyce  to  get  him  admitted  among  the  King's 
boys.  He  was  introduced  bv  her  Ladyship  to  two  eminent 
musicians  of  that  day,  Mr.  Stanley  and  Dr.  Morgan,  both  of 
whom  were  extremely  kind  to  him,' particularly  the  latter,  who 
frequently  entertained  him  by  playing  on  the  harpsichord.  Se- 
veral years  after  Charles  Wesley  published  a  set  of  six  hymn 
tunes— one  of  which,  adapted  to  the  words,  ^  In  Christ  my 
treasure's  all  contained,"  was  composed  at  the  request  of  Lady 
Huntingdon.  This  little  publication  also  included  the  welt- 
known  hymn  by  his  father  on  the  death  of  Mr.  Whitefield,  set  to 
music  by  Dr.  fioyce,  composer  to  his  Majesty  George  III. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  231 


CHAPTER  XIV. 

Ltdy  Huntingdon  and  Mr.  Fletcher — Introduced  to  Lady  Huntingdon  by  Mr. 
Wesley — Bishop  of  London — Letter  to  Mr.  Charles  Wesley — Mr.  Fletcher 
preaches  and  celebrates  the  Communion  at  Lady  Huptingdon's — Letter  to 
Mr.  Charles  Wesley.— .Letter  to  Lady  Huntingdon — Mr.  Fletcher  appointed 
Vicar  of  Madely— .Writes  to  Lady  Huntingdon  and  Mr.  Charles  Wesley— 
Visits  Mr.  Berridge — Letters  to  Lady  Huntingdon— .Induction  to  Madely—. 
Succeas  of  his  ministry— .Letters  to  Lady  Huntingdon. 

In  the  spring  of  the  year  1728  Lady  Huntingdon  first  became 
acquainted  with  that  singularly  holy  and  zealous  minister,  the 
late  Mr.  Fletcher,  vicar  of  Maaely,  near  Bridgnorth,  in  Shrop- 
shire. In  the  family  of  Thomas  Hill,  Esq.,  of  Tern  Hall,  near 
Shrewsbury,  he  had  spent  some  years  in  the  capacity  of  tutor, 
but  havfng  been  ordained  the  preceding  year  by  Dr.  Egerton, 
then  Bishop  of  Bangor,  in  the  Chapel  Koyal  of  St.  James's,  he 
was  at  that  time  very  popular  in  London  and  other  placea» 
preaching  in  Mr.  Wesley's  chapels,  and  wherever  the  proiadence 
of  God  opened  a  door  to  proclaim  the  ^*  unsearchable  riches  of 
Christ." 

*^I  have  seen  Mr.  Fletcher  (says  Lady  Huntingdon,  in  a  letter 
dated  March  19th,  1758),  and  was  both  pleased  and  refreshed  by  the 
interview.  He  was  accompanied  by  Mr.  Wesley*  who  had  frequently 
mentioned  him  in  terms  of  high  oommendation>  as  had  Mr.  Wbiteiield, 
Mr.  Charles  Wesley,  and  others,  so  that  I  was  anxious  to  become 
acquainted  with  one  so  devoted,  and  who  appears  to  glory  in  nothing 
save  in  the  cross  of  our  divine  Lord  and  Master.  Hearing  that  he 
preached  in  French^  his  native  language,  I  mentioned  the  case  of  the 
French  prisoners  at  Tunbridge.  May  the  Lord  of  the  harvest  blesa 
his  wora^  and  send  forth  many  such  faithful  ambassadors." 

At  Lady  Huntingdon's  request  Mr.  Fletcher  did  preach  to 
the  French  prisoners  on  their  parole  at  Tunbrid£[e.  They  ap- 
peared deeply  affected,  and  earnestly  requested  nim  to  preach 
to  them  on  every  Lord'g^ay,  and  tney  presented  a  petition  to 
the  Bishop  of  London  for  his  leave.     The  Bishop,  however, 

Eeremptonly  rejected  their  petition  !     A  few  months  afterwards 
e  died  of  a  cancer  in  hb  mouth. 

^Perhaps  (sajn  Mr.  Wesley)  some  may  think  this  was  a  just 
retribution  for  silencing  such  a  prophet  on  such  an  occasion  I    I  am 

not  ttahamed  to  ttdoowledge  Uw  iimy  own  ^entimenti  mil  do  not 


232  THE   LIFE   AND   TIMES   OF 

think  it  any  breach  of  charity  to  suppose  that  an  action  so  unworthy  of 
a  Christian  Bishop  had  its  punishment  in  this  world." 

On  this  opinion  of  Mr.  Wesley,  the  reader  will  form  his  own 
judgment. 

The  estimation  in  which  thehumble  and  devoted  Fletcher  held 
the  Countess  of  Huntingdon,  with  whom  in  the  following  spring 
he  had  many  interviews,  may  be  gathered  from  the  following 
short  extract  from  one  of  his  letters  to  Mr.  Charles  Wesley, 
dated  March  22,  J  759  :— 

^'  I  was  this  morning  with  Lady  Huntingdon,  who  salutes  you,  and 
unites  with  me  in  saying,  that  we  have  need  of  yon  to  make  one  in  our 
threefold  cord,  and  to  beg  you  t^tII  hasten  your  return,  when  Providence 
permits.  Our  conversation  was  deep,  and  fiill  of  the  energy  of  faith  on 
the  part  of  the  Countess ;  as  to  me,  I  sat  like  Paul  at  the  feet  of 
GamaHel" 

When  (in  the  November  of  that  year)  the  Countess  recom* 
menced  the  religious  assemblies  in  her  own  house,  Mr.  Fletcher 
was  one  of  the  clergymen  whom  she  requested  to  preach  and 
administer  the  Sacrament  to  the  elegant  and  pious  persons 
whom  she  gathered  around  her.  Of  this  invitation  we  find 
Mr.  Fletcher  ffiving  the  following  account  in  another  letter  to 
Mr.  Charles  Wesley  : — 

^^  Your  letter  Hie  says)  was  not  put  into  my  hands  till  eight  days 
after  my  arrival  m  London.  I  carried  the  enclosed  agreeably  to  its 
address,  and  passed  three  hours  with  a  modem  prodigy — a  pious  and 
humble  Countess!  I  went  with  trembling,  and  in  obedience  to 
your  orders ;  but  I  soon  perceived  a  little  of  what  the  disciples  felt, 
when  Christ  said  to  them.  It  is  /,  be  not  afraid.  She  proposed  to  me 
something  of  what  you  hinted  to  me  in  your  garden;  namely,  to  cele- 
brate the  communion  sometimes  at  her  house  in  a  morning,  and  to 
preach  when  occasion  offered;  in  such  a  manner,  however,  as  not  to 
restrain  my  liberty  or  prevent  my  assisting  you,  or  preaching  to  the 
French  refugees ;  and  that  only  till  Providence  should  clearly  point 
out  the  path  in  which  I  should  go.  Charity,  politeness,  and  reason  ac- 
companied her  offer ;  and  I  confess,  in  spite  of  tlie  resol  ution  which  I 
had  almost  absolutely  formed,  to  fly  the  houses  of  the  great,  without 
even  the  exception  of  the  Countess's,  I  found  myself  so  greatly  changed 
tliat  I  should  nave  accepted,  on  the  spot,  a  proposal  which  I  should 
have  declined  from  any  other  mouth,  but  my  engagement  witli  you 
withheld  me;  and,  thanking  the  Countess,  I  told  her,  when  I  had 
reflected  on  her  obhging  offer,  I  would  do  myself  the  honour  of  waiting 
upon  her  again. 

'^  Nevertheless,  two  difficulties  stand  in  my  way.  Will  it  be  con- 
sistent with  that  poverty  of  spirit  which  I  seek  ?  Can  I  accept  an  office 
for  which  I  have  such  small  talents  ?  and  shall  I  not  dishonour  the 
cause  of  God,  by  stammering  out  the  mysteries  of  the  Gospel  in  a 
pliscc  where  die  most  approved  ministers  of  the  Lord  have  preached 


SELIKA,   OOUKTBSS'OF   HUNTINGDON.  233 

with  so  much  power  and  so  much  success  ?  I  suspect  that  my  o^vn 
vanity  gives  more  weight  to  this  second  ohjection  than  it  ought  to  have  ; 
what  tifiink  you  V 

Mr.  Wesley's  answer  was  no  doubt  encouraging,  and  the  in- 
vitation of  the  Countess  was  accepted. 

Neither  exalted  by  the  grace  he  had  received,  nor  elated  with 
his  previous  success  in  the  ministry,  he  opened  his  commission 
amongst  the'great  and  honourable  in  the  drawing-rooms  of  the 
Countess,  in  the  lowly  manner  of  the  apostle — "Unto  me,  who 
am  less  than  the  least  of  all  saints,  is  this  grace  given,  that  I 
should  preach  the  unsearchable  riches  of  Christ."  On  this,  as 
on  many  subsequent  occasions,  the  affectionate  and  fervent  man- 
ner in  which  he  addressed  his  hearers,  and  the  earnestness  and 
zeal  with  which  he  delivered  his  messagfe,  were  affecting  proofs 
of  the  interest  he  took  in  their  spiritual  concerns ;  and  there  is 
much  reason  to  believe  that  his  labours  in  thb  way  were  not  "  in 
vain  in  the  Lord." 

During  the  winter  Lady  Huntingdon  continued  to  be  useful  in 
every  possible  way,  endeavouring  with  the  most  ardent  zeal  and 
unwearied  diligence,  to  advance  the  honouf  and  interest  of  her 
divine  Master.  At  home  and  abroad,  in  company  and  alone,  in 
public  and  in  private,  she  ceased  not  to  keep  in  view  and  pro- 
secute, with  the  most  intense  application,  her  great  and  important 
design ;  suffering  no  talent  to  i*emain  unoccupied,  nor  any 
moment  to  pass  unimproved.  In  Mr.  Fletcher  she  found  a 
powerful  auxiliary,  ana  one  every  way  calculated  to  fan  the  in- 
extinguishable flame  of  holy  zeal  which  burned  upon  the  altar  of 
her  heart. 

He  continued  in  London  during  four  months,  assisting  the 
Messrs.  Wesley,  and  preaching  alternately  with  them  and  others 
at  the  houses  of  Lady  Huntmgdon,  Lady  Gertrude  Hotham, 
and  Lady  Frances  Shirley,  generally  once,  and  frequently  twice 
in  every  week. 

In  1760  he  employed  himself  in  working  in  the  field  of  use- 
fulness he  found  at  Brighton,  after  which  he  returned  to  London : 
but  Mr.  Venn,  who  had  been  with  him  at  Brighton,  having  ac- 
companied the  Countess  of  Huntingdon  to  Aberford,  in  York- 
shire, Mr.  Fletcher  went  down  to  Tern  Hall,  where  he  had  few 
opportunities  of  preaching,  partly  owing  to  the  shyness  of  the 
neighbouring  clergy,  and  partly  to  the  fears  which  Mr.  Hill 
entertained,  lest  his  interest  at  Shrewsbury  should  be  lessened 
at  the  approaching  election,  if  Mr.  Fletcher  delivered  his  senti- 
ments with  unrestrained  freedom.  He  speaks  of  this  in  a  letter 
written  about  this  period  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  dated  Tern, 
September,  6,  1760,  and  addressed  to  her  Ladyship  <<  At  Lady 


S34  THE  UfE  AND  TIMES  OF 

Mai^ret  Ingham's,  at  Aberford,  near  Tadcaster,  in  Yorkshire." 
We  make  a  short  extract  from  this  letter : — 

"  I  am  greatly  indebted  to  your  Ladyship  for  what  light  I  have  into 
the  nature  of  the  foundation  of  Christianity ;  and,  although  I  have 
great  reason  to  be  ashamed  of  the  little  use  I  hare  made  of  it,  I  hope 
it  wiW  work  its  way,  by  the  power  of  Christ's  Spirit,  through  the  thick 
darkness  of  my  ^self-righteous,  unbelieying  heart,  and  then  to  be  a  closer 
follower  of  you,  as  you  are  of  Christ. 

^  The  fear  of  Mr.  Hill  has>  lest  I  should  lessen  his  interest  at  Shrews* 
bury  against  the  next  election, — ^the  shyness  of  the  neighbouring 
clergy,  and  the  want  I  feel  of  an  ordination  from  the  great  Shepherd 
and  Bishop  of  my  soul,  will  probably  prevent  my  preaching  at  all  in 
the  country.  0,  may  the  Spirit  of  God  preach  in  the  mean-time  the 
Gospel  to  my  heart. 

*<  Generous  as  you  are,  Madam,  I  believe  you  would  haye  saved  me 
the  shame  of  receiving  the  present  you  made  me  at  Paddington,  had 
you  foreseen  what  uneasy  thoughts  it  raised  in  my  heart.  ^  Is  not 
this  making  godliness  a  gain  ?  Can  I  in  conscience  receive  what  is 
devoted  to  the  poor,  and  when  I  am  not  in  actual  want  V  I  am  not 
ashamed  of  living  upon  charity,  but  to  receive  it  without  being  an  im- 
mediate object  is  whait  gives  me  more  uneasiness  than  want  could 
possibly  do.  And  now  I  am  deprived  for  many  months  of  the  un- 
speakable advantage  of  living  upon  Providence,  and  must  live  upon  a 
stock  as  well  as  the  rich  of  this  world !  Is  not  this  a  lesson  ?  And 
does  not  your  generosity,  Madam,  bid  me  look  to  Jesus  for  poverty  of 
spirit,  without  which  all  outward '  acts  are  nothing  but  pride,  sin 
misery,  and  lies  ? 

''  J.  Flbtcheb.** 

While  living  at  Tern  Hall*  Mr.  Fletcher  was  often  re(juested 
to  do  duty  for  Mr.  Chambers,  vicar  o|  Madely,  which  bemg  ten 
miles  distant,  a  groom  was  ordered  to  get  a  horse  ready  for  him 
every  Sunday  morning ;  but  so  great  was  his  aversion  to  giving 
trouble,  that  if  the  groom  did  not  wake  at  the  time,  he  seldom 
suffered  him  to  be  called,  but  prepared  the  horse  himself. 

On  the  26th  of  September  Mr.  Fletcher  wrote  again  to  Lady 
Huntingdon,  giving  an  account  of  his  call  to  Madely,  to  the 
following  effect : — 

^'  The  hght  I  expected  from  our  friend  at  Bristol  is  come,  though 
from  a  different  quarter.  A  fortnight  ago  the  minister  of  the  parish, 
with  whom  I  have  had  no  connexion  for  these  two  years^  sent  me 
word  (I  know  not  why)  that  his  pulpit  should  be  at  my  service  at 
any  time,  and  seems  now  very  friendly.  Some  days  after,  I  ventured, 
without  design,  a  visit  of  civility  to  the  vicar  of  a  neighbouring  parish, 
who  fell  out  with  me  three  years  ago,  for  preaching  faith  in  his  church: 

*  Now  Attinffbam  House,  a  bandaome  modern  mansion,  on  the  right  of  the 
Wellington-road  to  Shrewsbury,  at  the  ooniuince  of  the  Tern  and  the  Severn* 


SELIKl,  COUNTESS  OP  RtJNTINGDON.  235 

he  receiTed  me  with  the  greatest  kindness,  and  said  often  he  wonld  hsTe 
me  take  care  of  souls  somewhere  or  other.  Last  Sonday  the  vioar 
of  Madcly,  to  whom  I  was  formerly  corate,  coming  to  pay  a  visit  here, 
expressed  great  regard  for  me,  seemed  to  he  quite  reconciled,  and  as- 
sured me  that  he  would  do  all  that  was  in  his  power  to  serve  me;  of 
which  he  yesterday  gave  me  a  proof,  hy  sending  me  a  testimonial  un- 
asked, lie  was  no  sooner  gone  than  news  was  brought  that  the  old 
clergyman  I  mentioned  to  your  Ladyship  died  suddenly  the  day  he- 
fore  ;  and  that  same  day^  before  I  heard  it>  Mr.  Hill,  meeting  at  the 
races  his  nephew,  who  is  patron  of  Madely,  told  him,  that  if  he  would 
present  me  to  that  cure,  he  would  give  the  vicar  of  that  parish  the 
living  vacated  by  the  old  clergyman's  death.  This  was  immediately 
agreed  to,  as  Mr.  Hill  himself  informed  me  in  the  evening,  wishing  me 
joy.*  This  new  promise,  the  manner  in  which  Mr.  Hill  forced  me 
from  London  to  be  here  at  this  time,  and  the  kindness  of  the  three 
ministers  I  mentioned,  whose  hearts  seemed  to  be  turned  at  this  juncr 
ture  to  sign  my  testimonials  for  institution,  are  so  many  orders  to  be 
still,  and  wait  till  the  door  is  quite  open  or  shut.  I  beg,  therefore 
your  Ladyship  would  present  my  respects  and  thanks  to  Lady  Mar- 
garet and  Mr.  Ingham,  and  acquaint  them  with  the  necessity  which 
these  circumstances  lay  me  under  to  follow  the  leadings  of  Providence/ 

To  Mr.  Charles  Wesley  he  says : — 

<'  My  heart  revolts  at  the  idea  of  being  here  alone,  opposed  hy  my 
superiors,  hated  by  my  neighbours,  and  despised  by  ali  the  worla. 
Witliout  piety,  without  talents,  without  resolution,  how  shall  I  repcd 
the  assaults  and  surmount  the  obstacles  wliich  I  foresee,  if  I  discharge 
my  duty  at  Madely  with  fidelity  ?  On  the  other  hand,  to  reject  thn 
presentation,  to  bum  the  certificate,  and  to  leave  in  the  desert  the 
sheep  whom  the  Lord  has  evidently  brought  me  into  the  world  to  feed, 
appears  to  me  nothing  but  obstinacy  and  refined  self-love.  I  will  hold 
a  middle  course  between  these  extremes  :  I  will  be  wholly  passive  in 
the  steps  I  must  take,  and  active  in  praying  the  Lord  to  deliver  me  from 
the  evil  one,  and  to  conduct  me  in  the  way  he  would  have  me  go. 

*'  If  you  can  see  anything  better,  inform  me  of  it  speedily ;  and,  at 
the  same  time,  remember  me  in  all  your  prayers,  that,  if  this  matter  be 

*  One  day  Mr.  Hill  infuimed  him  that  the  living  at  Dunham,  in  Cheshire, 
then  vacant,  was  at  his  service.  **  The  parish  (he  continued)  is  small,  the  duty 
light,  the  income  good  (400/.  per  annum,)  and  it  is  situated  in  a  fine  healthy 
sporting  country.**  After  thanking  Mr.  Hill  most  cordially  for  his  kindness, 
Mr.  I'letcher  added,  "  Alas  !  sir,  Dunham  will  not  suit  me ;  there  is  too  much 
money,  and  too  little  labour."  **  Few  clergymen  make  such  objections  (said 
Mr.  Hill) ;  it  is  a  pity  to  decline  such  a  hving,  as  I  do  not  know  that  I  can  find 
you  anoUier.  What  shall  we  do  ?  Would  you  like  Madely  ?"  **  That,  sir, 
would  be  the  very  place  for  me.**  *'  My  object,  Mr.  Fletcher,  is  to  make  you 
comfortable  in  your  own  way.  If  you  prefer  Madely,  I  shall  find  no  difficultv 
in  persuading  Chambers,  the  present  vicar,  to  exchange  it  for  Dunham,  which 
is  worth  more  than  twice  as  much.**  In  this  way  he  became  vicar  of  Madely, 
with  which  he  was  so  perfectly  satisfied,  that  he  never  after  sought  any  other 
honour  or  preferment. 


230  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

not  of  the  Lord,  the  enmity  of  the  Bishop  of  Lichfield,  who  must  coun- 
tersign my  testimonials ;  the  threats  of  the  chaplain  of  the  Bishop  of 
Hereford,  who  was  a  witness  to  my  preaching  at  West-street ;  the  ob- 
jections drawn  from  my  not  being  naturalized,  or  some  other  obstacle, 
may  prevent- the  kind  intentions  of  Mr.  Hill." 

Having  occasion,  about  this  period,  to  accompany  his  pupils  to 
London,*  he  determined  to  avail  himself  of  that  opportunity  to 
call  upon  Mr.  Berridge,  vicar  of  Everton.  He  accordingly  in- 
troduced himself  as  a  raw  convert,  who  had  taken  the  liberty  to 
wait  upon  him  for  the  benefit  of  his  instruction  and  advice. 
From  his  accent  and  manners,  Mr.  Berridge  perceived  that  he 
was  a  foreigner,  and  enquired  what  countryman  he  was.  "  A 
Swiss,  from  the  canton  of  feerne,"  was  the  reply.  "  From  Berne  ! 
then,  probably,  you  can  give  me  some  account  of  a  young  coun- 
tryman of  yours,  one  John  Fletcher,  who  has  lately  preached  a 
few  times  tor  the  Messrs.  Wesley,  and  of  whose  talents,  learning, 
and  piety  they  both  speak  in  terms  of  high  eulogy.  Do  you 
know  him?"  "  Yes,  sir,  I  know  him  intimately ;  and,  did  those 
gentlemen  know  him  as  well,  they  would  not  speak  of  him 
m  such  terms,  for  which  he  is  more  obliged  to  their  partial 
friendship  than  to  his  own  merits."  "  You  surprise  me  (said 
Mr.  Berridge)  in  speaking  so  coldly  of  a  countryman,  in  whose 
praise  they  are  so  warm.  "  I  have  the  best  reason  (he  re- 
joined) for  speaking  of  him  as  I  do — I  am  John  Fletcher  !"  ''  If 
you  be  John  Fletcher  (replied  his  host)  you  must  do  me  the 
fiivour  to  take  my  pulpit  to-morrow ;  and  when  we  are  better 
acquainted,  without  implicitly  receiving  your  statement,  or  that 
of  your  friends,  I  shall  be  able  to  judge  for  myself."  Thus 
commenced  an  intimacy  with  Mr.  Berridge,  which  controversy 
could  not  interrupt. 

On  the  3rd  of  October  Mr.  Fletcher,  in  a  letter  to  the  Coun- 
tess of  Huntingdon,  thus  refers  to  his  induction  at  Madely : — 

"  Were  I  to  have  my  choice,  I  would  prefer  waiting  at  the  pool  un- 
der your  roof,  or  that  of  those  who  think  like  you,  to  any  other  way  of 
life;  and  I  will  own  to  your  Ladyship,  that  the  thought  of  giving  this 
up  is  one  of  the  chief  difficulties  I  have  now  to  encounter.  But  I 
seem  to  be  the  prisoner  of  Providence,  who  is  going,  in  all  probability, 
to  cast  my  lot  among  tlie  colliers  and  forgemen  of  Madely  :  the  two 
thousand  souls  of  tliat  parish,  for  whom  I  was  called  into  the  ministry, 
are  many  sheep  in  the  wilderness,  which,  after  all,  I  cannot  sacrifice 
to  my  own  private  choice.  When  I  was  suffered  to  attend  them  for  a 
few  days,  some  began  to  return  to  the  Shepherd  of  their  souls,  and  I  found 

•  The  elder  of  these  pupils,  the  sons  of  Mr.  Hill,  died  on  coming  of  «gc;  the 
younger  liecame  M.P.  for  Shrewsbury,  afterwards  for  Shropshire,  and  at  length 
took  his  seat  in  the  House  of  Peers,  as  Baron  Berwick  of  Attingham  House. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OP  HUNTINGDON.  237 

it  then  in  my  heart  to  spend  and  be  spent  for  them ;  when  I  was  sent 
away  from  them,  that  zeal^  it  is  true,  cooled  to  such  a  degree,  that  I 
have  wished  a  thousand  times  they  might  never  be  committed  to  my 
care ;  but  the  impression  of  the  tears  of  those  who,  when  I  left  them, 
ran  after  me  crying,  *  Who  shall  now  show  us  the  way  to  heaven  T 
never  wore  quite  off  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart,  ana,  upon  second 
thoughts,  I  always  concluded  that  if  the  Lord  made  my  way  plain  to 
their  church,  I  could  not  run  away  from  it  Avithout  di8obe3nng  the  order 
of  Providence.  That  time  is  come — the  church  is  vacated — the  pre- 
sentation to  it  brought,  unasked  for,  into  my  hands — the  difficulty  of 
getting  proper  testimonials,  which  I  looked  upon  as  insurmountable, 
vanishes  at  once — the  three  clergymen  that  had  opposed  me  with  most 
bitterness  signed  them — and  the  Bishop  of  Lichfield  countersigns 
them  without  the  least  objection — the  lord  of  the  manor,  my  great  op- 
poser,  leaves  the  parish — and  the  very  man  (the  vicar)  who  told  me  I 
should  never  preach  in  that  church,  now  recommends  me  to  it,  and 
tells  mc  he  will  induct  me  lumself.  Are  not  these  intimations  of  tibe 
will  of  God  ?  It  seems  so  to  me.  What  does  your  Ladyship  think  on 
it  ?  I  long  to  go  and  consult  you  in  Yorkshire,  but  camiot  do  it  now, 
without  giving  up  the  point  on  which  I  want  your  advice." 

Again,  on  the  28th  of  October,  1760,  he  thus  addresses  the 
Countess : — 

'^  Since  I  had  the  honour  to  write  last  to  your  Ladyship,  all  the  little 
circumstances  of  my  institution  and  induction  have  taken  such  an  easy 
turn,  that  I  question  whether  any  clergyman  noted  for  good  fellowship 
ever  got  over  them  with  less  trouble.  I  preached  last  Sunday  for  the 
first  time  in  my  church,  and  shall  continue  to  do  so,  thoueh  I  propose 
staying  with  Mr.  Hill  till  he  leaves  the  country,  which  will  be,  I  sup- 
pose in  a  fortnight,  partly  to  comply  with  him  to  the  last,  partly  to 
avoid  falling  out  witn  my  predecessor,  who  is  still  at  Madely,  but  who 
will  remove  about  the  same  time. 

"  Among  many  little  providences  I  have  seen  the  finger  of  God  in 
lately,  I  shall  mention  one  to  your  Ladyship.  The  Bishop  having  un- 
expectedly sent  me  word  to  go  to  him  for  institution  without  delay,  if 
I  would  not  be  at  the  trouble  of  following  him  to  London,  I  set  out  in 
haste  for  Hereford,  where  I  arrived  the  day  before  his  Lordship's  de- 
parture. As  I  went  along,  I  thought  that  if  mv  going  to  Madeiy 
was  from  the  Lord,  it  was  providentiai  that  I  should  be  thus  called  to 
be  instituted  in  the  country,  for  were  it  to  bo  in  London,  Sir  Peter 
Rivers,  the  Bishop's  chaplain,  who  examined  me  for  orders,  and  last 
summer  made  so  much  noise  in  West-street  Chapel,  where  he  found 
me  preaching,  would  infallibly  defeat  the  end  of  my  journey,  according 
to  lus  threatenings.  Thus  did  worldly  wisdom  work  in  my  heart ;  but  no 
divination  can  stand  against  the  God  of  Jacob,  who  is  a  jealous  God, 
and  does  not  give  his  glory  to  another.  A  clergyman,  named  Sir  Dut- 
ton  Colt,  came  to  see  the  Bishop  just  as  I  entered  the  Palace,  and  the 
Secretary  coming  to  him,  said  in  my  hearing,  *  Sir  Peter  is  just  come 
from  London  to  take  possession  of  a  Prebend,  which  the  Bishop  has 
given  him ;  he  is  now  in  the  Palace— ho>^  do  you  rank  with  him  ?'— 


^96  THE  LIFB  AND  TIBfXS  OV 

Mj  •nrprise  was  grett  for  a  moment,  and  my  first  thought  was  to  ride 
awaj  without  mstitutton ;  but  haying  ^ne  too  ftur  to  retreat,  I  had  ah 
iDSlant  strength  from  on  high  to  be  still  and  see  the  salvation  of  the 
iKifd.  My  second  thought  was  to  thank  God  for  sending  this  man 
from  London  in  that  point  of  time  to  defeat  Mr.  Hill's  deisign ;  and, 
euilLj  throwing  up  Madelj,  I  cried  for  strength  to  make  a  good  con- 
fomkma  b«fore  th«  High  Priest  and  the  Scribe ;  and  I  felt  I  luul  it,  but 
WW  not  called  to  use  it,  for  the  Bishop  was  alone,  the  ceremony  was 
mwr  in  ten  minutes,  and  Sir  Peter  did  not  come  in  till  after.  I  met 
him  at  the  door  of  the  Bidiop*8  room,  and  a  wig  I  had  on  that  day 
prarented  his  reooliecting  wno  I  was.  Your  ^uiyship  cannot  con- 
ceire  how  thankful  I  was  for  this  little  incident,  not  because  I  was 
Bot  disappointed  of  a  liyinff,  but  because  I  saw  and  felt,  that,  had  I 
been  disappointed,  it  would  naye  been  no  manner  of  disappointment 
to  me. 

^'  If  I  know  any  thing  of  m3rself,  I  shall  be  much  more  ready  to  re- 
sign my  benefice,  when  I  faaye  had  a  fair  trial  of  my  un[Ht>fitableneflB  to 
the  people  committed  to  my  care,  than  I  was  to  accept  it  Mr.  John 
Wesley  bids  me  do  it  without  a  trial.  He  will  haye  me  '  see  the  de- 
vil's snare,  and  fly  from  it  at  the  peril  of  my  soul/  I  answer,  I  cannot 
see  it  in  that  light  He  adds  ^  others  may  do  w^U  in  a  living — you  caji 
not,  it  is  not  your  calling.'  I  tell  him  I  readily  own  that  I  am  not  fit 
to  plant  or  water  any  part  of  the  Lord's  vineyard,  but  that  if  I  am 
called  at  all,  I  am  called  to  preach  at  Madely,  where  I  was  first  sent 
into  the  ministry,  and  where  a  chain  of  proviaences  I  could  not  break 
has  again  fastened  me ;  and  that  thougn  I  should  be  as  unsuccessful 
as  Noah,  yet  I  am  determined  to  try  to  be  there  a  preacher  of  Christ's 
righteousness  :  and  that,  notwithstanding  my  universal  inability,  I  am 
Bot  quite  without  hopes  that  he  who  reproved  a  prophet's  madness 
by  the  mouth  of  an  ass,  may  reprove  a  collier's  profaneness  even 
by  my  mouth.  1  reserve  for  another  letter  an  account  of  my  own 
soul,  and  what  begins  to  be  as  dear  to  mc  as  my  own  soul — myparis/i. 
In  the  mean  time,  I  earnestly  recommend  both  to  your  Ladyship's 
prayers." 

His  next  letter  to  the  Countess  is  dated  Tern,  Nov.  19th, 
1760 ;  it  is  written  in  a  somewhat  desponding  tone,  as  the  fol- 
lowing extract  shows : — 

•*  I  have  hitherto  wrote  my  seimons,  but  am  carried  so  far  bc3»ond 
ny  notes,  when  in  the  pulpit,  that  I  propose  preadiing  with  only  my 
Bcrrmon-case  in  my  hand  next  Friday,  when  I  shall  venture  on  an  cven- 
iuff  lecture  for  the  first  time.  I  question  whether  I  shall  have  above 
luuf-B-doTOn  hearers,  as  the  God  of  a  busy  worid  is  doubly  tlie  God  of 
this  part  of  the  world ;  but  I  am  resolved  to  try.  The  weather  and 
the  roads  are  so  bad,  that  the  way  to  the  church  is  almost  impractica- 
ble ;  nevertheless,  all  the  seats  were  fuH  last  Sunday.  Some  begin  to 
eome  from  the  adjacent  parishes,  and  some  more  (as  they  say)  threaten 
la  come  when  we  season  permits  it.  I  cannot  yet  discern  any  deep 
woik,  or  indeed  any  thing  but  what  will  always  attend  the  crying 
dowft  flUtt^  fighteonstiess^  and  iaristiBg  updn  Christ's,—  I  mean  a 


SELINA,  COtr^rtCSS  6F  tttJirt'lKGDOK.  9S0 

geilend  likiiig  among  tho  poor,  and  offence,  ridicule,  itnd  eppoiddon 
among  the  *  reputable'  and  '  wise'  people.  Should  the  Lord  vouch^ 
safe  to  plant  the  Gospel  in  this  country,  my  parish  seems  to  be  the  best 
spot  for  the  centre  of  a  work,  as  it  lies  just  among  the  most  populous, 
profane,  and  ignorant.  But  it  is  well  if,  after  all,  there  is  any  work  hi 
m^  parish.  I  despair  even  of  this  when  I  look  at  myself,  and  ^11  in 
quite  with  Mr.  Jonn  Wesley's  opinion  about  me ;  though  sometimes, 
too,  I  hope  the  Lord  hath  not  sent  me  here  fbr  nothing ;  and  I  beg  fbr 
strength  to  6tand  still  and  see  the  salvation  of  the  Lord.  Nererthclesa 
I  am  still  fully  determined  to  resign  my  living  after  a  while,  if  the  Lord 
does  not  think  me  worthy  to  be  his  instrument.  If  yottr  Ladyship  could 
at  any  time  spare  a  minute,  I  should  be  glad  to  know  whether  you  do 
not  think  that  I  shall  then  be  at  full  liberty  to  do  it  before  Gt>d.  I 
abhor  the  title  of  a  living  for  a  living's  sake ;  it  is  death  to  me. 

"  There  are  three  meetings  in  my  parish— a  Papist,  Quaker,  and 
Baptist,  and  they  begin  to  call  the  fourth  the  Methodic  cm^— I  mean 
the  Church.  But  the  bulk  of  the  inhabitants  are  stupid  heathens,  who 
seem  past  all  curiosity,  as  well  as  all  sense  of  godliness.  I  am  ready 
to  run  af^er  them  into  their  pits  and  forges,  and  I  only  wait  for  Proti'- 
dence  to  show  me  the  way.  I  am  often  reduced  to  great  perplexity, 
but  the  end  of  it  is  sweet.  I  am  driven  to  the  Lord,  and  he  comforts, 
encourages,  and  teaches  me.  I  sometimes  feel  that  »eal  which  forced 
Paul  to  wish  to  be  accursed  for  his  brethren's  sake ;  but  I  want  to  ffeel 
it  without  interruption.  The  devil,  my  fHends,  and  my  heart,  hare 
pushed  at  me  to  make  me  fall  into  worldly  cares  and  creature  snares 
— first,  by  the  thoughts  of  marrying,  then  by  the  offers  of  several 
boarders,  one  of  whom  offered  me  sixty  pounds  a  year,  (and  he  is  a 
Christian  youth,)  but  I  have  been  enablea  to  cry  *  Nothing  but  Jesus^ 
and  the  service  of  his  people,'  and  I  trust  the  Lord  will  "keep  me  in  the 
same  mind. 

"  Wherever  this  finds  your  Ladyship,  may  the  angel  of  the  Lord's 
presence  prevent,  accompany,  and  follow  all  your  steps,  which  is  and 
will  always  be  the  prayer  of  your  Ladyship's  unworthy  servant, 

"  J.  Flbtchbb." 

Again,  in  a  letter  of  the  6th  January,  1761,  he  says:*^ 

^^  I  had  a  secret  expectation  to  be  the  instrument  of  a  work  in  this 
part  of  our  Church  ;  and  I  did  not  despair  of  being  soon  a  litde  Ber- 
ridge  ;  and  thus  warmed  with  sparks  of  my  own  kindling  I  looked  out 
to  see  the  rocks  broke  in  pieces,  and  the  waters  flowing  out ;  but,  to 
the  great  disappointment  of  my  hopes,  I  am  now  forced  to  look  vnthin, 
and  see  the  need  I  have  of  being  broken,  and  of  relenting  myself.  If 
my  being  stationed  in  this  howling  wilderness  is  to  answer  no  public 
end  as  to  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  I  will  not  give  up  the  hopes  that  it 
maay  answer  a  private  end  as  to  myself  iu  humbling  me  under  a  sense 
of  universal  unprofitableness.     If  1  preach  the  Gospel  ten  years  here 

i suppose  I  live  so  long),  and  see  no  miits  of  my  labours,  in  cither  case 
promise  to  pnuse  God,  if  I  can  but  say  from  my  heart,  *  /  am  nothing 
*^I  have  nothing>^^I  can  do  nething,'  ♦  ♦  «  I  eoraplaiBed 
secretly  a  month  ago  of  my  want  of  concern,  toad  mj  vtupidity,  at  my 


240  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

solemn  times  of  waiting  upon  Ood,  and  the  Lord,  in  answer  to  my 
prayers,  I  believe,  let  loose  upon  me  for  some  moments  every  evening, 
the  enemy  of  my  soul.  I  might  call  him  the  dog  of  the  good  Shep- 
herd ;  for  a  straying  loitering  sheep  that  hears  a  buli-dog  barkings 
and  sees  him  ready  to  devour,  cannot  fly  into  the  sheep-fold  willi  more 
speed  than  those  odd  visits  made  me  betake  myself  to  the  stronghold 
of  my  soul.  But  to  my  shame,  the  pressure  was  no  sooner  removed 
but  I  returned  to  my  stupid  state.  Where  I  am,  and  what  the  Lord 
will  do  with  me,  or  by  me,  I  know  not.  If  I  can  but  once  truly  hold 
him,  I  shall  not  care,  for  then  I  shall  follow  him,  though  blindfold^ 
whithersoever  he  goeth. 

^  As  to  my  parish,  all  that  I  see  hitherto  in  it  is  nothing  but  what 
one  may  expect  from  speaking  plainly  and  with  some  degree  of  ear- 
nestness :  a  crying  out—-'  He  is  a  Methodist — a  downright  Methodist.' 
While  some  of  the  poorer  sort  say,  '  Nay,  but  he  speaketh  the  truUi !' 
Some  of  the  best  farmers,  and  most  respectable  tradesmen,  talk  often, 
among  themselves  (as  I  am  told),  about  turning  me  out  of  my 
living,  as  a  Methodist,  or  a  Baptist ;  and  spread  about  such  stories  as 
your  Ladyship  may  guess  at,  without  my  writing  them.  My  Friday 
Lectur*  took  better  than  I  expected,  and  I  propose  to  continue  it  till 
the  congregation  desert  me.  The  number  of  hearers  at  that  time  is 
generally  larger  than  that  which  my  predecessor  had  on  Sunday.  The 
number  of  communicants  is  increased  from  thirty  to  above  a  hundred ; 
and  a  few  seem  to  seek  grace  in  the  means.  May  they  do  it  in  sin- 
cerity 1**1  thank  your  Ladyship  for  mentioning  Mr.  Jones  as  a 
curate.  There  is  little  probability  of  my  ever  wanting  one.  My  oath 
obli^s  mo  to  residence,  and  when  I  am  here  I  can  easily  manage  all 
the  business^  and  only  wait  for  some  opportunities  of  bearing  o&ner 
witness  to  the  truth.'' 

One  more  extract  from  this  interesting  correspondence  shall 
conclude  this  chapten  The  letter  we  are  about  to  quote  is 
dated  Madely,  April  27, 1761  :— 

**  Conscious  that  few  people  can  sympathise  Avith  me  in  so  feeling  a 
manner  as  your  Ladyship,  I  shall  moke  no  apology  for  pouring  out  my 
complaints  before  you  in  this  letter. 

'*!  leam^  by  slow  experience,  that  in  me  dwelleth  no  good  thuig. 
This,  I  find,  cannot  be  learned  of  man,  nor  by  man — it  is  a  lesson  that 
grace  alone  teaches  effectually  in  the  furnace  of  affliction,  I  am  still 
at  the  first  line,  but  I  think  I  read  it  and  understand  it  in  a  manner 
quite  different  from  what  I  did  before.  Surely  the  Saviour  speaks  as 
no  man  ever  spake^  and  he  teaches  with  authority,  not  as  the  Scribes ; 
his  words  are  riveted  in  the  heart,  those  of  man  only  graze  the  sur- 
face of  the  understanding.  I  have  met  ^vith  several  trials  since  Pro- 
vidence has  cast  me  (I  shall  not  say  in  this  part  of  the  Lord's  vineyard, 
but)  into  this  part  of  our  spiritual  Sodom;  nevertheless,  they  did 
not  work  upon  me  as  they  ought  to  have  done :  I  stood  out  against 
them  in  a  kmd  of  self-resolution,  supported  by  human  fortitude  rather 
than  divine  humility,  and  so  they  did  not  bring  down  the  strength  of 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  241 

nature,  but  rather  increased  it ;  for  the  old  man,  if  he  cannot  have  his 
own  food,  will  live  quietly  and  comfortably  on  spiritual  food,  too.  Yea, 
he  is  often  pampered  by  what  the  natural  mind  supposes  will  poison 
him.  But  of  late  I  have  met  a  trial  that,  by  God's  infinite  mercy,  has 
found  its  way  to  my  heart  0,  may  the  wound  be  deep  enough  to  let 
in  the  mind  of  Jesus. 

'^  A  young  woman^  daughter  of  one  of  my  most  substantial  parish- 
ioners, giving  place  to  Satan,  by  pride  and  impatience,  is  driven,  in  her 
conviction,  into  a  kind  of  madness.  I  could  not  bear  patiently  enough 
before  the  reports  that  went  about  that  I  drove  people  mau,  but  the 
fear  of  having  this  laid  to  my  charge,  backed  with  so  glaring  instance, 
has  thrown  me  into  some  agonies  of  soul,  in  which,  through  very  gt'eat 
storms,  I  got  into  a  very  great  calm ;  and  the  Lord,  in  compassion  to 
my  infirmity,  perhaps  also  for  the  honour  of  his  cause,  seems  to  hear 
me  in  that  which  I  feared,  and  I  beUcve  there  is  some  hope  that  the 
snare  will  be  broken. 

*^  Why  God  permits  these  offences  to  arise,  has  not  a  little  staggered 
me.  Once  I  was  for  taking  to  my  heels,  and,  hireling-like,  for  flying  at 
the  first  approach  of  the  wolf.  But,  thanks  be  to  divine  grace,  I  now 
try  to  commit  to  the  Lord  the  keeping  of  his  own  ark,  and  cry  for  a 
blind  faith  in  him  who  calls  light  out  of  darkness.  Had  not  this  trial 
staggered  me,  I  should  have  great  hopes  that  a  few  living  stones  may 
be  gathered  here  for  the  temple  of  the  Lord.  There  is  a  considerable 
stir  about  reUgion  in  the  neighbourhood ;  and  though  most  people  rise 
up  against  it,  yet  some  begin  to  inquire  in  earnest  what  they  must  do 
to  be  saved ;  and  some  get  a  sight  of  the  way.  My  church  is  full,  not- 
withstanding the  oaths  that  some  of  my  parishioners  have  sworn  never 
to  hear  me  again.  1  am  insensibly  led  into  exhorting  sometimes  in  my 
house,  and  elswhere.  I  preach  Sunday  morning  and  Friday  evening ; 
and  Sunday  evening,  after  catechising  or  preaching  to  tho  children,  1 
read  one  of  the  homilies,  or  a  sermon  of  Archbishop  Usher's,  insisting 
on  all  that  confirms  what  I  advanced  in  the  morning,  which  greatly 
stops  the  mouths  of  the  gainsayers,  till  God  shall  turn  their  hearts." 

"  1  beg  your  Ladyship  (^when  the  blessed  Spirit  blows)  would  re- 
member my  poor  flock  ana  their  poor  shepherd  at  the  throne  of  grace 
1  propose  writing  soon  to  Mr.  Charles  Hotham  and  Mrs.  Carteret ; 
nevertheless,  should  take  it  kindly  if,  madam,  you  would  in  the  mean- 
time present  my  respects,  without  forgetting  Lady  Gertrude,  Mrs. 
Cavendish,  and  Mrs.  Leighton. 

*^  1  am,  my  Lady>  with  the  truest  regard  and  gratitude, 

"  Your  Ladyship's  unworthy  servant, 

"  J.  Flbtchbb." 


VOL.!.— R 


342  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  07 


CHAPTER  XV. 

Rise  of  Methodism  in  Yorkshire — Mr.  Ingham — Count  Zinzendorff-*M.  De- 
lamotte — Mr.  Okeley — Mr.  Rogers — Letters  from  Mr.  Whitefield — United 

Brethren— Mr.  Batty — Lady  Betty  Hastings — Ledstone-Hall Mr.  Ingham*s 

marriage  with  Lady  Margaret  Hastings — Count  Zinzendorff  visits  Yorkshire 

:  Moravian  settlement  at  Fulneck— John  Nelson — Mr.  NVhitefield^s  Letter  to 
Mr.  Ingham— Mr.  Grimshaw^-Lord  and  Lady  Huntingdon  visit  Ledstone- 
Hall...-Mr.  Charles  Wesley — Mr.  Graves — Lady  Huntingdon  encourages  John 
Nelson— .Persecution— Provincial  Magistrates-^ John  Nelson  taken  to  prison 
— Liberated  by  the  influence  of  Lady  Huntingdon — Lord  Sunderland — Letter 
from  Lady  Huntingdon  to  Mr.  Ingham—The  Vicar  of  Colne— Mr.  Grim- 
shaw*8  opinions.— Moravian  Nobles— John  Cennidc— Mr.  Ingham  leaves  the 
Moraviang— John  Allen. 

More  than  one  hundred  years  have  elapsed  since  the  rise 
of  Methodism  in  Yorkshire.  The  chief  instrument  in  the  revi?al 
of  religion  in  that  county  was  the  Rev.  Benjamin  Ingham, 
brother-in-law  to  the  Conntess  of  Huntingdon,  and  one  of  the 
original  band  of  Methodists  at  Oxford.  This  amiable  and  exem- 
plary man,  was  bom  at  Osset,  in  the  parish  of  Dewsbury,  in  the 
county  of  York,  June  the  11th,  1712.  Being  intendea  for  the 
Church,  he  received  a  liberal  education  at  Batley  school,  from 
whence  he  removed  to  Queen's  College,  Oxford,  where  he  soon 
attracted  the  notice  and  acquired  the  respect  of  his  superiors. 
Two  years  after  his  residence  at  the  University,  he  b^an  to 
associate  with  the  Messrs.  Wesley  and  others,  who  were  at  this 
time  noted  for  a  variety  of  particular  observances  and  devotional 
exercises,  which  gained  them  the  name  of  Methodists.  Soon 
after  Mr.  Whiteneld,  then  a  youth  about  19,  joined  himself  to 
the  society,  of  which  he  was  destined  to  be  the  great  Apollos, 
At  that  time  they  were  fourteen  or  fifteen  in  number,  all  colle- 
gians, of  one  heart  and  mii\d.  From  these  very  small  beginnings 
^hat  a  great  increase  has  been  given  I 

On  the  1st  of  July,  1734,  Mr.  Ingham  returned  from  Oxford 
to  Osset,  and  began  to  keep  religious  meetings  at  his  mother's 
house ;  in  a  little  time  several  of  the  neighbours  attended,  and 
within  the  space  of  six  months  a  considerable  number  of  persons 
assembled,  many  of  whom  were  brought  under  a  concern  for 
their  souls.  This  was  the  cmnmencement  of  the  awakening  in 
Yorkshire. 

Mr.  Ingham  was  admitted  into  holy  orders,  June  1785,  in 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  243 

Christ  Church,  by  Dr.  John  Potter,  then  Bishop'  of  Oxford ; 
and  on  that  very  day  commenced  his  public  ministry,  by  preach- 
ing his  first  sermon  to  the  prisoners  in  Oxford  Castle.  On  the 
4th  of  the  same  month  he  left  the  University  for  London,  and 
was  accompanied  thither  by  Mr.  Gambold.  He  read  prayers 
and  preached  for  the  first  time  in  Christ  Church,  and  afterwards 
in  St.  Sepulchre's,  where  his  labours  were  attended  with  the 
happiest  effects.  His  zeal  and  diligence  advanced  with  the  ex- 
tension of  his  sphere :  far  beyond  the  precincts  of  London  he 
published  the  Gospel,  preaching  in  many  of  the  surrounding 
villages  with  singular  success,  so  that  great  numbers  in  these 
places  carried  with  them  into  eternity  the  grateful  recollection 
of  his  ministry. 

In  consequence  of  a  pressing  request  for  his  assistance  in 
preaching  from  Mr.  Wesley,  he  embarked  for  Georgia,  in  Ame- 
rica, on  the  14th  of  October,  1735,  accompanied  by  Mr.  Charles 
Wesley  and  Mr.  Delamotte,  the  son  of  a  merchant  in  London.* 
During  the  voyage  thev  employed  their  time,  with  scnipulous  ex- 
actness and  laborious  diligence,  in  acts  of  devotion,  in  the  study 
of  the  Scriptures,  and  in  the  instruction  of  those  who  were  willing 
to  learn.  There  were  on  board  the  vessel  several  Germans,  who 
were  missionaries  from  the  Church  of  the  United  Brethren, 
under  the  direction  of  David  Nitchman,  a  Moravian  bishop,  for 
whom  Mr.  Ingham  conceived  a  great  regard  during  the  voyage. 
The  first  attempt  made  by  the  brethren  was  for  the  establish- 
ment of  a  school-house  for  Indian  children  of  the  Creek  nation 
living  in  their  neighbourhood,  about  five  miles  from  the  town  of 
Savannah.  Many  Indians  residing  there  in  one  place,  gave  the 
missionaries  an  opportunity  to  preach  the  glad  tidings  that 
unto  them  also  was  born  a  Saviour,  who  had  redeemecl  them, 
and  purchased  for  them,  freedom  from  sin,  and  eternal  salvation* 
In  Mr.  Ingham  the  Brethren  found  an  able  assistant.  He  went 
and  lived  among  the  Indians  for  some  time,  and  proved  very  ser- 
viceable in  regulating  and  promoting  the  aim  of  the  schools. 
Having  succeeded  in  his  attempt  to  learn  the  language,  he  com« 
posed  an  Indian  grammar  for  the  use  of  the  colony ;  but  he  was 
soon  called  away  to  England,  where  he  arrived  the  latter  end  of 
the  year  1736. 

With  a  view  to  profit  by  the  example  and  advice  of  the  Mora* 
vian  Brethren,  he  determined  to  visit  Germany,  where,  at  Hem- 

•  The  family  of  the  Delamottes,  of  Blendon,  in  Kent,  were  all  converted  by 
Mr.  Ingham  ;  and  bit  son,  William,  a  student  at  Cambridge,  was  the  means  of 
introducing  to  the  Vnbnnitw  thai  sealous  paeacber  Mr.  Lawrence  Batty,  of 
CSatherine-HaU,  and  hit  brother,  who  ali  became  Mr.  Ingfaun's  aitistanU  ia 
Yorkshire. 

R  2 


244  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

huth  in  particular,  he  expected  to  meet  with  many  who  had  long 
trodden  the  paths  of  hohness,  and  who  would  rejoice  to  be  the 
helpers  of  his  joy.  Accordingly,  he  embarked  at  Gravesend  in 
the  month  of  June,  1738,  and  landed  at  Rotterdam.  On  his 
journey  through  Holland  and  Germany,  he  found  many  followers 
of  the  Lord  Jesus,  who  treated  him  with  the  ^eatest  hospitality. 
At  Marienbourn  he  met  with  Count  ZmzendorflF,*  Count 
de  Solmes,  and  several  other  eminent  Moravians,  who  all 
encouraged  him  to  proceed  without  wavering  in  the  glorious 
cause  in  which  he  was  engaged.  At  Hernhuth,  where  he  stayed 
a  fortnight,  he  was  exceedingly  strengthened  and  comforted  by 
the  Christian  conversation  of  the  Brethren.  Towards  the  end 
of  the  year  he  returned  to  England,  when  he  found  the  work 
of  Methodism  had  been  making  rapid  advances  all  over  the 
kingdom. 

On  Mr.  Ingham's  return  to  Osset,  his  native  place,  he  re- 
newed his  labours,  and  preached  in  all  the  churches  and  chapels 
about  Wakefield,  Leeds,  and  Halifax ;  and  the  Lord  was  pleased 
marvellously  to  display  the  unsearchable  riches  and  adorable 
sovereignty  of  divine  grace  in  the  assemblies  of  his  people. 
Such  awful  reverence,  such  glorious  concern  of  mind,  and  such 
solemnity  under  the  word,  was  seldom  before  witnessed  in  that 
part  of  the  vineyard. 

Private  religious  meetings  greatly  multiplied,  and  many,  very 
many,  had  an  inflamed  desire  to  live  to  Him  who  died  for  them 
and  rose  again.  Of  such  a  season  as  this  it  may  be  well  said, 
*'  I  have  heard  thee  in  a  time  accepted,  and  in  the  day  of  sal- 
vation have  I  succoured  thee  :  behold,  now  is  the  accepted  time, 
behold,  now  is  the  day  of  salvation." 

Such  proceedings  soon  roused  the  envy  and  enmity  of  the 
clergy ;  and  by  an  order  made  at  the  Visitation,  held  at  Wake- 
field, June  6th,  1739,  Mr.  Ingham  was  prohibited  from  preaching 
in  any  of  the  churches  in  the  diocese  of  York.  He  immediately 
began  to  preach  in  the  fields,  bams,  dwellings,  and  houses ;  and 
such  was  the  power  attending  his  ministrations,  that  there  were 
societies  formed  in  forty  different  places. 

Whilst  the  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Saviour 
Jesus  Christ  was  thus  winning  its  way  in  Yorkshire,  the  same 
glorious  cause  was  spreading  with  astonishing  rapidity  in  Bed- 
fordshire, through  the  instrumentality  of  Mr.  Francis  Okeley 
and  the  Rev.  Jacob  Rogers,  a  clergj^man  of  the  Church  of  Eng- 

*  It  was  bv  the  advice  of  the  Count  and  the  Rev.  Peter  Boehler,  of  the 
University  of  Jena,  that  Mr.  Ingham  visited  Germany.  They  both  came  to 
England  in  1737,  on  business  connected  with  the  affairs  of  the  Brotherhood  in 
Georgia. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  245 

land  who  had  been  preaching  the  long-exploded  doctrines  of  the 
Reformation  with  great  zeal  and  success.  Thither  Mr.  Ingham 
immediately  repaired,  and  found  among  the  awakened,  persons 
not  much  concerned  about  hearing  the  word,  but  truly  in  earnest 
to  experience  the  power  of  it  in  their  hearts.  During  his  stay 
he  preached  and  expounded  several  times,  in  St.  Paul's  church, 
to  vast  multitudes,  who  heard  him  with  an  extraordinary  degree 
of  attention. 

The  number  of  converts  daily  increasing,  they  were  formed 
into  societies,  and,  by  the  advice  of  Mr.  Ingham,  placed  under 
the  care  of  the  Moravian  ministers,  who  were  about  this  time 
invited  into  Bedfordshire  by  Mr.  Rogers.  This  led  the  way  for 
settlement  of  the  United  Brethren  at  Bedford,  which  was  formed 
in  the  year  1745.  A  chapel  was  built  for  the  preaching  of  the 
Gospel,  and  consecrated  in  the  year  1751.  The  ministers  re- 
siding at  Bedford  preached  also  at  several  places  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood, particularly  at  Risely,  where  a  chapel  was  erected, 
which  proved  a  signal  blessing  to  many. 

Concerning  Mr.  Rogers,  Mr.  Whitefield  writes  thus: — 

'^  Mr.  Rogers,  like  me,  has  lately  been  thrust  out  of  the  synagogues 
for  speaking  of  justification  by  faith  and  the  new  birth ;  and  has  com- 
menced as  field  preacher.  Once  he  was  shut  up  in  prison  for  a  short 
time  ;  but  thousands  flocked  to  hear  him,  and  God  blessed  him  more 
and  more.  I  believe  we  are  the  first  professed  ministers  of  the  Church 
of  England  that  were  so  soon,  without  cause,  excluded  every  pulpit. 
Whether  our  reverend  brethren  can  justify  such  conduct,  the  last  day 
will  determine." 

Hearing  of  the  amazing  success  attending  his  ministry,  and 
the  continued  determined  opposition  of  the  high  church  clergy, 
Mr.  Whitefield,  before  he  left  America,  wrote  to  Mr.  Rogers 
the  following  letter : — 

"Philadelphia,  Nov.  10,  1739. 
"  My  dear  brother  Rogers,— Before  I  lefl  England  I  heard  of  your 
progress  in  Leicestershire  and  Nottingham.  I  then  rejoiced,  yea,  and 
I  do  now  rejoice,  that  God  hath  sent  you  into  his  vineyard.  I  wish 
you  all  imaginable  success,  with  my  whole  heart.  The  next  news  I 
hear  from  England  I  suppose  will  inform  mc  of  your  suffering  as  weU  as 
preaching  for  Christ  But  I  am  persuaded  a  prospect  of  suffering  does 
not  damp,  but  excite,  the  zeal  of  my  dear  fellow-labourer.  He  lives 
in  a  place  where  honest  John  Bunyan  was  a  prisoner  of  the  Lord  for 
twelve  years.  And  oh  I  what  sweet  communion  did  he  enjoy  in  Bed- 
ford gaol  ?  I  really  believe  a  minister  will  learn  more  by  one  mouth's 
confiuement  than  by  a  year's  study.  Press  on  then,  my  dear  brother, 
press  on  and  faint  not ;  speak  till  you  can  speak  no  more.  Wait  upon 
the  Lord  and  you  sliall  renew  your  strengtn.  Thoi^h  sometimes  faint, 
yet  still  pursue.    Up  and  be  aoiDg,  and  the  Lord  be  with  you.    See, 


246  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

how  the  fields  are  white,  everywhere  ready  to  harvest.  See,  how  our 
Lord*s  sheep  are  scattered  ahroad,  having  few,  too  few  true  shepherds  : 
I  heseech  you  go  on,  aud  point  out  to  them  the  Redeemer's  good  pas* 
tures.  Say  not.  Wherewithal  shall  I  feed  them  ?  The  great  Shepherd 
shall  furnish  you  with  food  enough  and  to  spare.  Give  of  your  loaves 
and  ye  shall  take  up  of  die  fragments  that  remain.  To  him  that  hath 
shall  he  given.  Satan,  no  doubt,  will  resist  you ;  ho  will  bid  you,  out 
of  a  false  humility,  to  hold  your  peace ;  but  let  my  friend  speak  out 
boldly  as  he  ought  to  speak.  The  Holy  Spirit  mil  give  him  utterance, 
and  apply  tlie  word  to  the  hearers.  If  prayers  may  water  the  good 
seed,  you  may  depend  on  mine.  Remember  the  dear  Bedford  people. 
0,  let  them  not  forget  your  poor  weak  brother  in  Christ, 

**  Georob  Whitkfibld." 

Mr.  Rogers  returned  with  Mr.  Ingham  to  Yorkshire,  and 
afterwards  they  visited  Nottingham,  where  their  ministry  was 
greatly  owned.  The  benediction  of  the  Spirit  of  God  seemed 
to  rest  in  a  peculiar  manner  on  the  labours  of  those  apostolic 
witnesses  wherever  they  itinerated,  preaching  the  righteousness 
of  our  God  and  Saviour  Jesus  Christ,  and  very  many  on  those 
occasions  have  been  called  by  their  ministrations  to  the  know- 
ledge of  his  grace  and  faith. 

After  some  time  Mr.  Ingham  entered  into  close  communion 
with  the  church  of  the  United  Brethren.  In  the  month  of  Novem- 
ber, 1739,  he  was  visited  by  Mr.  William  Delamotte  and  the 
Rev.  John  Toeltschig,  a  Moravian  minister,  who  had  been  in 
Georgia  with  Mr.  Ingham  and  Mr.  Wesley,  and  afterwards  ac- 
companied them  to  Uennany.  This  was  the  fii-st  entrance  of 
the  Moravians  into  Yorkshire.  Others  of  the  Brethren  were 
soon  invited,  who  laboured  for  Mr.  Ingham  with  considerable 
success  :  and  in  a  little  time  the  number  of  lay  preachers  con- 
siderably increased. 

Amongst  the  most  eminent  were  three  brothers,  Mr.  William 
Batty,  Mr.  Christopher  Batty,  and  Mr.  Lawrence  Batty,  of 
Catherine  Hall,  Cambridge,  sons  of  Mr.  Giles  Batty,  a  man  of 
considerable  respectability,  who  resided  at  Newby  Cote,  near 
Settle,  in  Craven.  Some  notice  of  each  of  these  brothers  will 
be  found  in  the  note  below.* 

•  Mr.  J^wrence  Batty  is  Raid  to  have  been  an  extremely  eloquent  preacher ; 
but  from  intense  study  and  violent  exertion  became  weakened  in  his  intellects. 
He  was  taken  from  London  by  bis  brother  Christopber,  for  medical  advice,  and 
remained  there  some  lime.  Some  years  after  his  return  to  Yorkshire  he  took 
a  fever  and  died. 

Mr.  WiUiam  Batty,  the  eldest  brother,  a  popular  preacher  among  the  Ingham- 
ites.  In  1700,  he  was  ordained  pastor  of  the  Church  at  Wheatley,  in  conjunc- 
tion with  the  Rev.  John  Green,  who  afterwards  removed  to  Nottingham,  and 
became  i)astor  of  a  congregation  there  in  the  same  connexion.  His  labours 
were  entirely  ^tuitous,  as  his  paternal  inheritance  was  ample.  In  the  year 
1786  he  was  seized  with  fainting  fits,  and  wis  ordered  by  medical  men  to  desist 


SELI19A,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  ^7 

They  were  active  labourers  in  the  vineyard,  and  they  had  the 
satisfaction  of  witnessing  the  happy  progress  of  the  Gospel 
through  the  circle  in  which  they  moved,  and  the  rapid  increase 
of  those  who  attended  their  ministry.  They  were  instrumental 
in  changing  many  of  the  outcasts  of  society  into  useful  members; 
civilizing  even  savages,  and  filling  those  lips  with  prayer  and 

from  preaching ;  but  this  he  refused.     He  died  suddenly,  without  a  sigh  or  a 
groan,  December  12, 1787,  aged  72. 

Mr,  Chrutonhn  Batty  died  at  Kendal,  in  the  county  of  Westmoreland,  April 
19,  1797,  agea  82,  and  was  buried  in  the  groimd  adjoining  the  chapel,  where 
there  is  a  monument  erected  to  his  memory. 

Alice,  vdfe  of  the  Rev.  Christopher  Batty,  died  March  29, 1794,  aged  66« 
They  had  two  sons,  Giles,  who  died  November  29,  1 797,  aged  32,  and  Christo- 
pher, who  was  bred  to  the  profession  of  a  surgeon,  and  died  January  25,  1806^ 
a^d  40 ;  also  two  daughters,  Jane,  wife  of  Mr.  William  Knipe,  of  Kirkland, 
died  February  9,  1802,  aged  45 ;  and  Alice,  wife  of  Mr.  John  Brockbank,  of 
Kendal,  who  died  May  15,  1801. 

The  three  brothers  possessed  considerable  poetical  talents,  and  some  of  their 
hymns  are  amongst  the  best  and  most  poetical  now  in  use.  Mr.  Christopher 
£iatty  composed  the  first  hymn  used  among  the  Inghamites,  aeon  after  his 
conveision.    It  begins. 

**  Sweet  was  the  hour,  the  minute  sweet,**  &o. 

At  an  early  period  of  this  Conneiion,  a  hymn-book  was  printed  at  Leeds, 
chiefly  composed  by  Uie  Messrs.  Batty  i  from  whence  several  hymns  in  the 
Tabernacle  and  Lady  Huntingdon's  Cfonnexion  are  taken.  That  well-known 
.missionary  hymn, 

"  Captain  of  thine  enlisted  host,'*  &c 

was  composed  by  one  of  the  Battys ;  also  the  following,  which  are  to  be  found 
in  many  collections,  with  several  ethers  in  general  use : 

«  What  object's  this  which  meets  my  eyes,**  Sec. 

or,  as  it  is  altered  in  another  edition,  commencing  thus,* 

«  From  Salem's  gate,  advancing  slow. 
What  object  meets  my  eyes  I 
What  means  this  majesty  of  wo  7 
What  mean  these  mingled  cries  ?**  &c. 

••  Beloved  Saviour,  faithful  Friend,*'  &c 

"  O,  my  Lord  I  I've  often  mused,**  &c. 

"  Saviour,  canst  thou  love  a  traitor?"  &c. 

**  O  Lord,  how  great's  the  favour  I"  &c. 

*'  I  w»lt  the  visUs  of  thy  grace,"  &c. 

"  How  blest  are  they  whose  feet  have  found,"  &c. 

<*  How  shall  I  spctfUc  my  Saviour's  worth,"  &c. 

"  Strangers  and  sojourners  below,"  &c. 

"  Encouraged  by  the  word  of  grace,'*  &c. 

**  The  Qod  of  Balvalion,  Jehovah  bv  name,"  &o. 

**  Compassionate  Bridegroom,  my  Shepherd  and  Friend,"  &c. 

**  O,  Jesu,  my  God,  come  make  thine  abode,"  &c. 

"  O,  Jesus,  my  Saviour,  I  fain  would  embrace,"  &c. 

**  Sinner,  attend  1  attend,  I  pray,'*  &c 

"  See  Jesus,  our  Deliv'rer  great,"  &c 

"  Nething  in  this  world  I  want,**  &c. 

'<  The  Qodi  whoM  millet  weeoiirt»"  &c 


248  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

praise,  that  had  been  accustomed  only  to  oaths  and  imprecations. 
Societies  were  formed  in  sixty  different  places,  and  were  visited 
every  month.  Thus  the  seed  sown  sprang  up  and  flourished, 
bearing  the  rich  fruits  of  every  grace  and  virtue. 

We  must  now  speak  of  Mr.  Ingham's  marriage,  and  first  of 
his  wife's  family : — 

The  Lady  Betty  Hastings  was  a  woman  of  singular  excellence. 
Her  maternal  grandfather  was  Sir  John  Lewis,  of  Ledstone,  in 
the  county  of  York,  Bart.,  one  moiety  and  more  of  whose  very 
large  estate  came  to  her  by  inheritance  ;  and  her  father  was 
Theophilus,  seventh  Earl  of  Huntmgdon.  Her  countenance 
united  in  it  something  great  and  something  condescending ;  an 
ingenuous  temper,  a  quickness  of  understanding,  a  benevolent 
spirit,  a  flexibility  of  nature,  a  devout  frame,  and  a  solemn  sense 
of  sacred  things,  were  observable  in  her  infancy,  and  her  foot- 
steps slipped  not  in  the  dangerous  ascent  of  life,  so  that  she  was 
not  only  free  from  every  stain  of  vice  in  her  early  days,  but 
superior  to  the  world  and  its  vain  and  trifling  amusements. 
Though  the  splendour  of  her  birth  was  great,  it  was  eclipsed  by 
her  shining  qualities  :  she  was  agreeable  in  her  person,  polite 
and  amiable  in  her  manners,  and  charming  in  conversation. 
Her  singular  accomplishments  in  early  life  were  celebrated  by 
one  of  the  ingenious  authors  of  "  The  Tatler,"  under  the  name 
of  "  Aspasia."* 

Lady  Betty's  active  life  commenced  soon  after  the  death  of 
her  brother,  George,f  Earl  of  Huntingdon,  when  her  excellent 
virtues  shone  out,  by  what  has  been  the  eclipse  of  virtue  in 
others,  the  accession  of  a  large  fortune.  Her  Ladyship  spent 
the  greater  part  of  her  life  at  Ledstone  house,  where  almost 
every  eye  beheld  her  with  wonder.  Such  was  the  superiority 
of  her  understanding,  that  in  matters  of  high  moment  hundreds 
would  ask  counsel  of  her,  who  were  themselves  well  qualified  to 
give  it  to  others;  for  she  was  blessed  with  a  rectitude  of  judg- 
ment, and  could  readily  penetrate  through  perplexities,  unravel 
them,  and  mark  out  the  wisest  and  safest  conduct,  having  ever 
for  her  ground  the  interests  of  truth,  fidelity,  honour,  and  reli- 
gion. Her  aim  was  the  glory  of  God,  and  the  good  of  all  men ; 
keeping  all  her  capacities,  all  her  powers,  and  all  her  fortune, 
continually  upon  the  stretch  for  'the  benefit  of  her  fellow  crea- 
tures ;  weeping  with  them  that  weep,  rejoicing  with  them  that 
rejoice ;  given  to  hospitality,  distributing  to  the  necessities  of 
the  saints,  and  to  others  that  were  less  so ;  and  having  joy  at 
the  conversion  of  a  sinner. 

•  TaUer,  No.  42,  dated  July  16, 1709. 
t  The  half-brother  and  predecest or  of  Theophilus,  husband  of  the  Countess. 


SELINA^  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  249 

Lady  Anne,  Lady  Frances,  Lady  Catherine,  and  Lady  Mar- 
garet Hastings,  were  the  daughters  of  the  same  noble  Earl,  by 
his  second  wife,  Frances,  daughter  and  sole  heiress  to  Francis 
Leveson  Fowler,  of  Harnage -Grange,  in  the  county  of  Salop, 
Esq.,  by  Anne  and  his  wife,  second  daughter  to  Peter  Venables, 
Baron  of  Kinderton,  in  Cheshire,  and  widow  of  Thomas  Need- 
ham,  Viscount  Kilmorey,  in  Ireland.  At  this  period,  when  Mr. 
Ingham  commenced  his  public  ministry  in  Yorkshire,  the  Ladies 
Hastings  were  on  a  visit  to  Ledstone  rlall,  and  from  motives  of 
curiosity  were  first  induced  to  hear  him  preach  in  a  neighbouring 
parish.  He  was  then  invited  to  preach  m  Ledstone  church,  and 
from  that  period  became  a  constant  visitor  at  the  Hall. 

Under  the  ministry  of  Mr.  lugham,  the  Lord  met  these  ex- 
alted females  with  all  the  blessings  of  his  grace.  They  heard 
him  with  pleasure,  and  drank  in,  like  thirsty  travellers,  the 
refreshing  streams  of  consolation,  they  made  an  open  profession 
of  the  faith,  and  exhibited  a  bright  example  of  female  excellence 
to  the  world.  The  higher  ranks  of  mankind  were,  by  their 
acquaintance,  some  of  them  charmed  into  the  love  of  virtue, 
while  others  found  their  virtues  heightened  and  improved.  As 
to  the  lower  sort,  they  were  guided  by  their  wisdom ;  and,  if  they 
wanted  it,  were  cherished  by  their  boundless  generosity.  If  in 
one  grace,  more  than  another,  they  resembled  their  Divine 
Master,  it  was — in  meekness  and  humility.  Here  they  were  a 
pattern  to  all,  especially  to  those  of  their  own  rank  and  station* 
They  were  amiably  condesceivling  to  all  their  inferiors,  even  to 
the  poorest  and  more  especially  to  the  pious  poor,  and  would 
enter  the  meanest  cottage,  with  pleasure,  to  converse  and  join 
in  religious  exercises  with  the  people  of  God.  With  these 
excellent  women  Mr.  Ingham  soon  became  a  great  favourite.  On 
the  death  of  Lady  Betty  Hastings,  December  the  2*2nd,  1739, 
her  noble  sisters  removed  to  Donnington  Park,  in  Leicestershire, 
as  Ledstone  Hall  then  became  the  property  of  her  Ladyship's 
brother,  the  Earl  of  Huntingdon.  Lady  oetty  was  interred  with 
great  funeral  solemnity  in  the  family  vault  at  Ledstone,  near 
her  grandfather,  Sir  John  Lewis.  She  was  a  pattern  to  succeed- 
ing ages  of  all  that  is  good,  and  all  that  is  great.  In  short,  scarce 
any  age  has  afforded  a  greater  blessing  to  many,  or  a  brighter 
example  to  all.     Her  Ladyship  was  in  the  57th  year  of  her  age.* 

*  Lady  Betty  bequeathed  large  sums  of  money  for  charitable  purposes,  and 
devised  lands  of  considerable  value,  to  the  Provost  and  Scholars  of  Queen*8 
College,  Oxford,  for  the  interest  of  twelve  Northern  Schools.  In  the  "  Historical 
Character*'  of  her  Ladyship,  by  the  Rev.  Thomas  Bernard,  Master  of  the  Free 
School  in  Leeds,  dedicated  to  Francis,  Lord  Hastings,  then  a  youth  at  West- 
minster School  (eldest  son  of  Lady  Huntingdon),  there  is  a  list  of  the  lands 
given  by  Lady  Betty  in  mortmain,  and  vested  in  truitees,  for  the  maintenance 
of  perpetual  charities. 


259  THE  LIFE  AKD  TIMES  OF 

Lady  Margaret  had  nearly  attained  her  forty-second  year, 
and  was  twelve  years  older  than  Mr.  Ingham.  She  had  many 
accomplishments,  which  recommended  her  to  all  who  had  the 
happiness  of  knowing  her ;  but  the  greatest  glory  that  shone 
in  ner  was  that  of  religion,  in  which  she  was  not  only  sincere, 
but  excelled.  To  this  lady  Mr.  Ingham  was  united,  November 
12,  1741,  at  the  residence  of  her  brother,  the  Earl  of  Hunt- 
ingdon, in  London:  and  he  continued  to  the  last  moments 
of  his  life  to  express  the  highest  veneration  and  regard  for  her, 
and  showed  a  particular  regard  and  esteem  for  her  noble 
relatives ;  several  of  whom  honoured  him  with  a  most  intimate 
friendship. 

About  this  period  Nicholas  Lewis,  Count  of  Zinzendorff, 
again  visited  England,  and,  travelling  through  Yorkshire,  re^ 
mained  some  time  with  Mr.  Ingham.  At  this  time  there  were 
several  thousand  persons  in  the  different  societies  which  he  had 
established ;  and  by  his  advice  they  committed  themselves  to 
the  care  of  thoso  ministers  whom  the  Count  had  sent  to  assist 
Mr.  Ingham,  promising  withal  still  to  continue  in  communion 
with  the  Church  of  England.  The  ministers  who  had  the  care 
of  these  societies  lived  then  at  Smith-House,  and  preached  in 
many  parts  of  the  country  with  much  zeal  and  success.  Not 
long  after,  however,  many  persons  having  requested  to  be  received 
into  the  congregation  of  United  Brethren,  which  could  not 
well  be  refused  to  such  as  did  not  belong  to  the  Established 
Church,  or  had  before  separated  from  it,  the  Count  advised  them 
to  take  a  place  near  Pudsey,  where  the  Brethren  from  Germany, 
with  such  of  the  English  as  were  desirous  of  living  with  them, 
might  build  a  particular  congregation-place. 

Accordingly,  the  ministers  to  whom  Mr.  Ingham  had  com- 
mitted the  care  of  his  extensive  societies,  soon  after  removed  to 
Pudsey,  where  they  erected  several  houses  and  a  chapel  on  a 
piece  of  land  which  Mr.  Ingham  had  bought,  and  generously  nre- 
sented  to  them  for  that  purpose.  This  settlement  was  called 
Orace  Hill.  Mr.  Ingham  was  expected  at  Pudsey  on  the  10th 
of  May,  1746,  to  lay  the  foundation-stone  of  the  chapel  and 
other  buildings,  but  being  unexpectedly  detained  in  Lancashire, 
where  he  had  been  preaching,  this  office  was  performed  by  Mr. 
Toeltschig.  By  degrees  several  persons  came  to  reside  with  the 
United  Brethren,  and  a  congregation-place  was  erected  near 
the  chapel,  which  was  called,  at  first,  Lamb's  HilU  and  now 
Fulneck.     It  was  consecrated  by  the  Moravians,  May  22nd, 

174a 

The  societies  in  Yorkshire  and  Bedfordshire,  chiefly  collected 
by  the  labours  of  Mr.  Ingham  and  Mr.Rogers,  which  were 
placed  under  the  care  of  the  United  Brethren,  were  still  consi* 


SELINA)  G0UNTES8  OF  HUNTINODON.  2A1 

dered  in  communion  with  the  Church  of  England,  and  only  in 
union  with  the  Morarian  Church.  But,  being  greatly  disturbed 
by  frequent  mobs,  they  were  compelled  to  license  their  char 
pels,  and  call  themselves  the  Protestant  Church  of  the  United 
Brethren,  or  Unitas  Fratrum.  The  Count  sent  a  protest  against 
this,  which  was  deposited  in  the  archives  of  the  Archbishop  at 
Lambeth:  but  little  notice  being  taken  of  it,  he  was  unable  to 
do  anything  more  in  the  affair. 

A  very  smgular  character  was  raised  up  about  this  time,  whose 
labours  tended  in  a  wonderful  degree  to  enlarge  the  pale  of 
Methodism  in  Yorkshire.  John  Nelson,  a  native  of  Birstai, 
near  Leeds,  whose  business  led  him  to  reside  some  years  in  Lon* 
don,  being  employed  in  the  building  of  Somerset  House,  was 
amongst  the  number  of  those  who  frequently  heard  Mr.  White* 
field  and  Mr.  Wesley  preach  in  the  open  air  in  Moorfields, 
Kennington-common,  and  other  places.  In  the  memoirs  of  his 
life,  written  by  himself,  he  gives  an  account  of  his  hearing  Mr. 
Wesley  the  first  time,  which  was  out  of  doors,  in  Mooraelds. 
He  says — 

'^  As  soon  as  he  got  upon  his  stand,  be  stroked  back  his  hair^  and 
turned  his  face  towards  where  I  stood,  and  I  thought  fixed  his  eyes  upon 
me.  His  countenance  struck  such  an  awful  dread  upon  me,  before  I 
heard  him  speak,  that  it  made  my  heart  beat  like  the  pendulum  of  a 
clock ;  and  when  he  did  speak  I  thought  hit  whole  discoorie  was 
aimed  at  me.*' 

After  he  had  been  made  partaker  of  the  grace  of  God  in 
truth,  it  was  impressed  upon  his  mind-  that  he  must  return  to 
his  native  place  :  he  longed  to  impart  to  his  friends  and  relations 
the  grace  of  which  he  had  been  made  the  blessed  recipient.  And 
thus  he  was  brought  unawares  to  quote,  explain,  compare,  and 
enforce  several  parts  of  Scripture.  This  he  did,  at  first,  sitting 
in  his  house,  till  the  company  increased  so  as  the  house  could 
not  contain  them.  He  then  stood  at  the  door,  which  he  was 
commonly  obliged  to  do  in  the  evening,  as  soon  as  he  came  from 
work.  This  may  give  the  reader  an  idea  of  the  way  and  man- 
ner in  which  many  of  the  first  race  of  Methodist  preachers  were 
called  to  the  work  of  preaching  the  Gospel.  For  some  time 
Mr.  Nelsoirs  friends  and  his  nearest  relations  opposed  him, 
and  were  ashamed  of  him;  but  he  was  stedfast  and  immovable, 
and  abounded  in  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

These  proceedings  coming  to  the  ears  of  Mr.  Ingham,  he 
came  to  Birstal,  enquired  into  the  facts,  and  talked  wim  Nelson 
himself  in  the  closest  manner  concerning  his  knowledge  and 
spiritual  experience.  Several  persons  being  present,  Mr.  Ingham 


252  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

said,  "  Before  you  all,  I  give  John  leave  to  exhort  in  all  my 
societies."  Then,  taking  him  by  the  hand,  added,  "  John,  God 
hath  given  you  great  honour,  in  that  he  hath  made  use  of  you  to 
call  smners  to  repentance ;  and  I  desire  you  to  exhort  in  all  my 
societies  as  often  as  you  can." 

A  mightier  instrument  was  raised  up  in  the  person  of  the  Rev. 
William  Grimshaw,  Rector  of  Haworth,  near  Bradford,  who 
about  this  time  commenced  his  apostolic  ministry,  the  influence 
of  which  soon  extended  beyond  the  bounds  of  his  parish,  and 
was  felt  all  over  Yorkshire  and  some  of  the  surrounding  coun- 
ties. Haworth  is  one  of  those  obscure  places  which,  like  the 
fishing  towns  of  Gaiilee,  favoured  with  our  Lord's  presence,  owe 
all  their  celebrity  to  the  Gospel.  The  name  of  Haworth  would 
scarcely  be  known  at  a  distance,  were  it  not  connected  with  the 
name  of  Grimshaw.  The  bleak  and  barren  face  of  the  adjacent 
country  was  no  improper  emblem  of  the  state  of  the  inhabitants ; 
who,  in  ffeneral,  nad  little  more  sense  of  religion  than  their 
cattle,  and  were  wild  and  uncultivated  like  the  rocks  and  moun- 
tains which  surrounded  them.  But,  by  the  blessing  of  God  upon 
Mr.  Grimshaw's  ministry,  this  desert  soon  became  a  fruitful 
field  :  a  garden  of  the  Lord,  producing  many  trees  of  righteous- 
ness planted  by  the  Lord  himself,  and  the  barren  wilderness  re- 
joiced and  blossomed  like  the  rose. 

The  tenor  and  energy  of  Mr.  Grimshaw's  preaching  could 
not  fail  of  being  talked  of,  and  bringing,  out  of  curiosity,  many 
hundreds  to  Haworth  church,  where  the  Lord  met  them  with 
the  blessings  of  his  grace ;  so  that  when  the  rage  for  novelty 
had  subsided,  the  church  still  continued  crowded,  many  of  the 
congregation  coming  from  a  ^eat  distance,  and  this  for  twenty 
years  together.  Indeed,  nothing  but  the  faithful  preaching  of 
the  Gospel  of  the  Grace  of  God  will  draw  souls  heartily  together 
or,  according  to  the  prophet's  language,  "as  doves  to  their 
windows."  His  heart  was  engaged,  he  was  pressed  in  spirit,  he 
spoke  with  earnestness  and  authority,  as  one  who  was  well  as- 
sured of  the  truth  and  importance  of  his  message.  Nor  did  he 
long  speak  in  vain.  A  power  from  on  high  applied  to  the  heart, 
what  he  could  only  declare  to  the  ear.  An  impression,  similar 
to  what  he  hiraseli  felt,  began  to  be  felt  by  some,  and  in  a  short 
space  by  many  of  his  hearers.  The  effects  were  soon  visible. 
An  effectual  door  was  now  opened,  and  adversaries  were  not 
wanting.  But  a  growing  number  who  approved  and  prized  his 
ministry  were  soon  distinguished,  not  only  by  a  change  in  their 
views  and  sentiments,  but  in  their  tempers  and  conduct.  Sin 
was   in  many    instances  forsaken    and    discountenanced,  the 


SELINA)  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  253 

drunkard  became  sober,  the  idle  industrious,  profaneness  gave 
place  to  prayer,  and  riot  to  decorum. 

There  are  four  hamlets  in  the  parish  of  Haworth,  and  as  in 
them  there  were  persons  whom  age,  sickness,  distance,  or  preju- 
dice, prevented  irom  attending  at  church,  he  considered  them 
all  as  belonging  to  his  charge,  and  was  unwilling  that  any  of  them 
should  perish  m  ignorance.  He  therefore  went  to  those  who 
could  not,  or  would  not,  come  to  him,  teaching  and  exhorting 
them  from  house  to  house,  and  preaching  in  a  more  public  way 
in  the  houses  where  he  was  invited. 

Without  intermitting  his  stated  services  at  home,  he  went 
much  abroad.  In  a  course  of  time  he  established  two  circuits, 
which,  with  some  occasional  variation,  he  usually  tmced  every 
week,  alternately.  One  of  these,  he  often  pleasantly  called  his 
idle  week,  because  he  seldom  preached  more  than  twelve  or  Jour" 
teen  times.  His  sermons,  in  his  working  or  busy  week,  often  ex- 
ceeded the  number  of  twenty-four,  and  sometimes  amounted  to 
thirtt/  /* 

About  eight  months  after  Mr.  Grimshaw  had  commenced 
his  successful  ministry  at  Haworth,  he  became  acquainted,  and 
soon  afterwards  closely  connected,  with  Mr.  Ingham,  and 
laboured  unweariedly  to  diffuse  the  glad  tidings  of  the  Gospel 
amongst  his  societies.  Once,  and  sometimes  twice,  a-year,  he 
preached  through  the  circuit  appointed  by  Mr.  Ingham.f  It 
IS  not  easy  to  ascribe  such  unwearied  diligence,  and  all  amongst 
the  poor,  or  at  least  very  obscure  people,  to  any  motive  but  the 
real  one.  Whilst  he  saw  multituaes  perishing  without  hope,  and 
no  one  breaking  to  them  the  bread  ot  life,  he  was  condinuncd  by 
love  to  pity  them,  and  this,  notwithstanding  the  selfish  reluctance 
he  felt  within  to  give  up  his  name  to  still  greater  reproach  as  well 
as  his  time  and  strengtn,  to  proceed  in  the  work  of  the  ministry. 
What  a  reflection  does  this  afford  to  that  laziness  of  heart,  to  call 
it  by  no  worse  name,  which  thinks  the  service  of  God,  after  call- 
ing It  in  prayer  before  him  a  perfect  freedom,  to  be  ahard  burden, 
and  which  courts  easy  duty  and  large  fees,  only  for  an  indulgence 
to  the  flesh,  and  to  hold  up  a  sort  of  foolish  and  unmeaning  re- 
spect in  the  world  ! 

*  See  Memoirs  of  Mr.  Grimshaw,  bj  tbe  Rev.  J.  Newton. 

f  The  Wesleyans,  therefore,  err  in  claiming  Mr.  Grimshaw  as  exclusively 
connected  with  Mr.  Wesley.  Mr.  Ingham  had  the  priority,  and  as  to  his  fiUtli, 
if  tbe  doctrine  which  ascnbes  the  whole  of  a  sinner's  salvation,  from  the  first 
dawn  of  light  to  the  first  motion  of  spiritual  life  in  the  heart,  to  its  full  accom- 
plishment, in  victory  over  the  last  enemy,  be  Calvinism,  we  have  his  confession, 
sent  to  Mr.  Romaine,  to  prove  that  Mr.  Grimshaw  was  a  Calvinist.  Mr.  Ing- 
ham had  established  seventy  societies  before  he  was  invited  bv  >fr.  Wesley, 
and  Mr.  Grimshaw  had  preached  at  Haworth  before  either  ot  the  Wedeys 
reached  Yorkshire. 


fil4  THE  LIFE  AND  TIBiES  OV 

During  this  interval  the  Earl  and  Countess  of  Huntingdon^ 
with  the  Ladies  Hastings,  arrived  at  Ledstone  Hall,  which  had 
not  been  visited  by  any  of  the  family  since  the  decease  of  Lady 
Betty  Hastings.  In  a  few  days  they  were  joined  by  Mr.  and  Lady 
Margaret  Ingham,  and  soon  after  the  apostolic  Gnmshaw 
became  a  guest  at  the  Hall.  Much  about  the  same  period  Mr. 
Charles  Wesley  and  Mr.  Charles  Graves  commenced  preaching 
in  Yorkshire  with  great  success.  They  were  accompanied  by 
Mr.  Bonnet  and  Mr.  David  Taylor,  both  of  whom  were  preach- 
ers for  some  time  in  Mr.  Ingham's  connexion.  On  visiting 
Leeds,  M».  Charles  Wesley  and  Mr.  Graves  were  invited  to 
Ledstone,  where  there  was  preaching  twice  a  day  for  several  suc- 
cessive days.  Great  crowds  attended,  and  people  flocked  from 
a  vast  distance  to  hear  the  word.  The  congregation  usually 
consisted  of  many  thousands,  so  that  the  service  was  repeatedly 
performed  without  the  walls,  and  a  succession  of  sermons,  with 
some  intervals,  were  preached  in  the  course  of  the  day  to  the 
people  in  the  open  air.  Those  who  object  to  the  irregularity  of 
this  course,  should  remember  that  there  was  at  that  time  a  great 
dearth  of  Gospel  knowledge ;  the  people  were  hungering  for 
the  bread  of  life  :  they  met  together  for  the  Lord's  sake  and  in 
his  name,  and  He  who  dwelletb  not  in  temples  made  with  hands 
was  pleased  to  afford  them  tokens  of  his  presence  and  blessing, 
as  if  to  prove  that  the  souls  of  men  are  not  to  be  sacrificed  to 
formal  notions  of  *'  regularity"  and  order. 

While  Messrs,  Ingham  and  Grimshaw  were  thus  triumphing 
gloriously  in  Yorkshire,  theirfellow  labourer,  Mr.  Whitefield,  was 
succeeding  in  like  manner  in  London.  He  often  wrote  to  con- 
gratulate Mr.  Ingham  and  Mr.  David  Taylor  on  the  opening  of 
new  doors  for  the  ministry.  "  The  rams'-horns  (he  says)  are 
sounding  about  Jericho,  surely  the  towering  walls  will  at  length 
fall."     These  letters  are  dated  in  the  year  1743. 

Lady  Huntingdon  having  heard  much  of  John  Nelson,  and 
the  surprising  success ,  attending  his  exhortations,  expressed  a 
desire  to  see  and  converse  with  him.  Accompanied  by  Mr.  Ing- 
ham and  Mr.  Graves,  her  Ladyship  went  to  Birstal.  As  Mr. 
Ingham  was  expected  to  preach,  tney  found  a  congregation  of 
some  thousands  assembled,  impatiently  waiting  their  arrival. 
After  a  few  moments'  repose,  Mr.  Ingham  addressed  the  multi- 
tude from  that  passage — ^*  Seek  the  Lord  while  he  may  be 
found— call  upon  him  while  he  is  near."  When  he  had  con- 
cluded, John  Nelson  spoke  for  about  half  an  hour.  The  Coun-. 
tess  was  delighted,  and  at  parting  told  him,  with  her  charac- 
teristie  energyy  that  God  had  called  him  to  put  his  hand  to  the 
plough,  and  great  would  be  bis  punishment  if  he  dared  to  look 


SELINA>  G0UNTXS8  09  HUKTIKODOK.  9fift 

back  for  a  moment ;  adding)  with  much  emphasis,  ^*  He  that 
called  you  is  mighty  to  save — ^fear  not — ^prest  forward-— £/e  wUl 
bless  your  testimony** 

Thus  encoura^d  John  Nelson  soon  began  to  extend  his  cir- 
cuit, and  preach  m  different  parts  of  the  country.  The  growing 
stigma  of  Methodism  exposed  him  to  much  suffering  and  re- 
proach: the  clergy  were  his  bitterest  enemies.  In  some  in«> 
stances,  advantage  was  taken  of  the  popular  cry  against  the 
Methodists  to  break  open  their  doors  and  plunder  their  houses; 
but  greater  personal  barbarities  were  exercised  in  other  places. 
Some  of  the  preachers  received  serious  injury;  others  were  held 
under  water  till  they  were  nearly  dead ;  and  of  the  women  who 
attended  them,  some  were  so  treated  by  the  cowardly  and  brutal 
populace  that  they  never  thoroughly  recovered.  In  some  places 
they  daubed  the  preacher  all  over  with  paint ;  in  others,  they 

Eelted  the  people  in  the  meetings  with  egg-shells,  which  they 
ad  filled  with  blood,  and  stopped  with  pitch.  The  process  of 
Methodism  was  rather  furthered  than  impeded  by  tnis  kind  of 
persecution,  for  it  often  rendered  the  Metnodists  object  of  cu- 
riosity and  compassion ;  and  in  every  instance,  the  preachers 
displayed  that  fearlessness  which  confidence  in  God  is  sure  to 
inspire,  and  which,  when  the  madness  of  the  moment  was  over, 
made  even  their  enemies  respect  them. 

These  things  were  sufficiently  disgraceful  to  the  nation; 
but  the  conduct  of  many  of  the  provmcial  magistrates  was  far 
more  so,  for  they  suffered  themselves  to  be  so  rar  influenced  by 
passion  and  popular  feeling,  as  to  commit  acts  of  abominable 
oppression  under  the  colour  of  the  law.  The  vicar  of  Birstal, 
which  was  John  Nelson's  home  and  head-quarters,  though  it 
justifiable  to  rid  the  parish,  by  any  means,  of  a  man  who  preached 
with  more  zeal  and  more  effect  than  himself;  aud  he  readily 
consented  to  a  proposal  from  the  alehouse-keepers  that  Nelson 
should  be  pressed  for  a  soldier,  a  custom  then  too  horribly  pre* 
valent,  as  the  pressing  of  sailors  was  at  a  much  later  period ;  for 
as  fast  as  he  made  converts  they  lost  customers.  He  was  pressed 
accordingly,  and  taken  before  the  commissioners  at  Halifax, 
where  the  vicar  was  one  of  the  bench ;  and  though  persons  enough 
attended  to  speak  to  his  character,  the  commissioners  said  they 
had  heard  enough  of  him  from  the  minister  of  his  parish,  and 
could  hear  nothing  more.  <*  So,  gentlemen  ^said  Nelson),  I  see 
there  is  neither  law  nor  justice  for  a  man  tnat  is  called  a  Me- 
thodist ;  "  and  addressing^  the  vicar  by  his  name  he  said,  "  What 
do  you  know  of  me  that  is  evil  ?  Whom  have  I  defrauded?  or 
where  have  I  contracted  a  debt  that  I  cannot  pay  ?"  "  You  have 
no  visible  means  of  getting  your  living,''  was  the  reply.    He 


256  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

answered,  <<  I  am  as  able  to  set  my  living  with  my  hands  as  any 
man  of  my  trade  in  England  is,  and  you  know  it."  But  all  re- 
monstrances were  in  vain  ;  he  was  marched  off  to  Bradford,  and 
there,  by  order  of  the  commissioners,  put  in  the  dungeon,  where 
there  was  not  even  a  stone  to  sit  on. 

John  Nelson  had  as  high  a  spirit  and  as  brave  a  heart  as 
ever  Englishman  was  blessed  with,  and  he  was  encouraged  by 
the  good  offices  of  many  zealous  friends,  and  the  sympathy  of 
some  to  whom  he  was  a  stranger.  A  soldier  had  offered  secu- 
rity for  him,  and  an  inhabitant  of  Bradford,  though  an  enemy 
to  the  Methodists,  had,  from  mere  feelings  of  humanity,  offered 
to  give  security  for  him  if  he  might  be  allowed  to  lie  in  a  bed. 
His  friends  brought  him  candles  and  meat  and  water,  which 
they  put  through  a  hole  in  the  door,  and  they  sang  hymns  till 
a  late  hour  in  the  night — they  without  and  he  within.  A  poor 
fellow  was  with  him  in  this  miserable  place  who  might  have 
been  starved  if  Nelson's  friends  had  not  brought  food  for  him 
also.  At  four  in  the  morning  his  wife,  who  had  profited  by  her 
husband's  lessons,  came  to  the  prison-door,  and,  instead  of  be- 
wailing for  him  and  herself,  said  to  him  through  the  keyhole : — 

"  Fear  not;  the  cause  is  God's  for  which  you  are  here,  and  he  will 

Slcad  it  himself:  therefore  bo  not  concerned  about  me  and  thechil- 
ren,  for  he  that  feeds  the  young  ravens  will  be  mindful  of  us.  He 
will  give  you  strength  for  your  day,  and  after  we  Lave  suffered  awhile 
he  will  perfect  that  which  is  lacking  in  our  souls,  and  then  bring  us 
where  the  wicked  cease  from  troubling  and  where  the  weary  arc  at 
rest." 

Early  in  the  morning  he  was  marched  under  a  guard  to  Leeds; 
the  other  pressed  men  were  ordered  to  the  alehouse,  but  he  was 
sent  to  prison,  and  there  he  thought  of  the  poor  pilgrims  who 
were  arrested  in  their  progress ;  for  the  people  came  in  crowds 
and  looked  at  him  through  the  iron  grate:  some  pitied  and 
others  reviled  him.  The  gaoler  admited  his  friends  to  see  him, 
and  a  bed  was  sent  to  him  by  some  compassionate  person,  when 
be  must  otherwise  have  slept  upon  damp  straw. 

On  the  following  day  he  was  marched  to  York : — 

*'  We  were  guarded  through  the  city  (he  says),  but  it  was  as  if  hell 
were  moved  from  beneath  to  meet  at  my  coming.  The  streets  and 
windows  were  filled  with  people,  who  shouted  and  huzzaed  as  if  I  had 
been  one  that  had  laid  waste  tne  nation.  But  the  Lord  made  my  brow 
like  brass^  so  that  I  could  look  upon  them  as  grasshoppers,  and  pass 
through  the  city  as  if  there  had  been  none  in  it  but  God  and  myself." 

Lots  were  cast  for  him  at  the  guard-house,  and  when  it  was 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OV  HUNTINGDON.  257 

thus  determined  which  captain  should  have  him,  he  was  offered 
money,  which  he  refused  to  take,  and  for  this  they  bade  the 
Serjeant  handcuff  him  and  send  him  to  prison.      The  handcuffs 
were  not  put  on,  but  he  was  kept  three  days  in  prison,  where  he 
preached  to  the  poor  reprobates  among  whom  he  was  thrown ; 
and,  wretches  as  they  were,  ignorant  of  all  that  was  good,  and 
abandoned  to  all  that  was  evil,  the  intrepidity  of  the  man  who 
reproved  them   for  their  blasphemies,   and  tlie   sound  reason 
which  appeared  amidst  all  the  enthusiasm  of  his  discourse,  were 
not  without  effect.     Strangers  brought  him  food;  his  wife  also 
followed  him  here,  and  encouraged  him  to  go  on  and  suffer 
every  thing  bravely  for  conscience'  sake.     On  the  third  day  a 
court-martial  was  held,  and  he  was  guarded  to  it  by  a  file  of 
musketeers  with  their  bayonets  fixed.     When  the  court  asked 
"  What  is  this  man's  crime  ?"  the  answer  was,  "  This  is  the 
Methodist   preacher,  and  he  refuses  to  take  money."     Upon 
which  they  turned  to  him'  and  said,  "  Sir,  you  need  not  find 
fault  with  us,  for  we  must  obey  our  orders,  which  are  to  make 
you  act  as  a  soldier ;  you  are  delivered  to  us,  and  if  you  have 
not  justice   done  you    we    cannot    help  it."      When    Nelson 
plainly  told  them  he  would  not  fight,  because  it  was  against  his 
way  of  thinking,  and  when  he  again  refused  the  money,  which 
by  their  bidding  was  offered  to  him,  they  told  him  that  if  he  ran 
away  he  would  be  just  as  liable  to  suffer  as  if  he  had  taken  it. 
He  replied,  "  If  I  cannot  be  discharged  lawfully  I  shall  not  run 
away ;  if  I  do,  punish  me  as  you  please."     He  was  then  sent  to 
his  quarters,  where  his  arms  and  accoutrements  were  brought 
to  him  and  put  on.  "Why  do  you  gird  me,"  said  he,  "  with  these 
warlike  habiliments  ?     I  am  a  man  averse  to  war,  and  shall  not 
fight  but  under  the  Prince  of  Peace,  the  Captain  of  my  salva- 
tion ;  the  weapons  he  gives  me  are  not  carnal  like  these."     He 
must  bear  these,  they  told  him,  till  he  could  get  his  discharge. 
To  this  he  made  answer,  that  he  would  bear  them  as  a  cross, 
and  use  them  as  far  as  he  could  without  defiling  his  conscience, 
which  he  would  not  do  for  any  man  on  earth. 

There  was  a  spirit  in  all  this  which,  when  it  had  ceased  to 
excite  ridicule  from  his  comrades,  obtained  respect.  He  had  as 
good  opportunities  of  exhorting  and  preaching  as  he  could  de- 
sire ;  he  distributed  also  the  little  books  which  Mr.  Wesley  had 
printed  to  explain  and  vindicate  the  tenets  of  the  Methodists, 
and  was  as  actively  employed  in  the  cause  to  which  he  had 
devoted  himself  as  if  he  had  been  his  own  master.  At  last 
the  ensign  of  his  company  sent  for  him,  and,  accosting  him  with 
an  execration,  swore  ne  would  have  no  preaching  and  praying  in 
the  regiment.     "  Then,  sir,"  said  John,  "you  ought  to  have  no 

VOL.  I.— s 


258  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

swearing  nor  cursing  either,  for  surely  I  have  as  much  right  to 
pray  and  preach  as  you  have  to  curse  and  swear."  Upon  this 
the  brutal  ensign  swore  that  he  should  be  flogged  for  what  he 
had  done.  '^  Let  God  look  to  that,"  was  the  resolute  man's 
reply ;  "  the  cause  is  his;  but  if  you  do  not  leave  off  cursing 
land  swearing  it  will  be  worse  with  you  than  with  me."  The 
ensign  then  bade  the  corporal  put  that^fellow  into  prison  directly, 
and  when  the  corporal  said  he  must  not  carry  a  man  to  prison 
unless  he  gave  in  his  crime  with  him,  he  told  him  it  was  for 
disobeying  orders.*  To  prison,  therefore,  Nelson  was  taken,  to 
his  heart's  content,  and  after  eight-and-forty  hours*  confine- 
ment, was  brought  before  the  major,  who  asked  him  what  he 
had  been  put  in  confinement  for.  "  For  warning  people  to  flee 
firom  the  wrath  to  come,"  he  replied,  "  and  if  that  be  a  crime  I 
shall  commit  it  again,  unless  you  cut  my  tongue  out ;  for  it  is 
better  to  die  than  to  disobey  God."  The  major  told  him,  if 
that  were  all,  it  was  no  crime ;  when  he  had  done  his  duty  he 
might  preach  as  much  as  he  liked,  but  he  must  make  no  mobs. 
And  then,  wishing  that  all  men  were  like  him,  he  dismissed  him 
to  his  quarters. 

Lady  Huntingdon  exerted  all  her  influence  to  obtain  his  dis- 
charge. By  means  of  her  acquaintance  with  Judith,  Dowager- 
Ck)untess  of  Sunderland,f  she  obtained  an  interview  with  lier 
step-son,  Charles,  fourth  Earl  of  Sunderland,  afterwards  Duke 
of  Marlborough,  who  had  a  short  time  before  been  promoted  to 
the  rank  of  brigadier-general  of  his  Majesty's  forces.  On  a 
fiaithfiil  representation  of  the  case,  his  Lordship  assured  Lady 
Huntingdon  that  those  for  whom  she  had  interested  herself 
should  be  set  at  liberty  in  a  few  days.  This  intelligence  was 
communicated  to  Nelson  by  Mr.  Charles  Wesley,  while  her 
Ladyship  wrote  to  inform  Mr.  Ingham,  who  had  taken  an  active 
part  in  procuring  his  enlargement,  of  the  success  of  her  appli- 
cation. 

On  the  28th  of  July  John  Nelson  was  set  at  liberty,  and  the 
day  after  his  release  from  captivity  he  preached  at  Newcastle.  His 
companion,  Thomas  Beard,  who  had  been  pressed  for  the  same 
reason,  would  probably  have  been  discharged  also,  but  the  con- 

*  *'  It  caused  a  sore  temptation  to  arise  in  me  (said  John)  to  think  that  an 
ignorant,  wicked  roan  should  thus  torment  roe,  and  I  able  to  tie  his  head  and 
heels  together.  I  found  an  old  man^s  bone  in  me  ;  but  the  Lord  lifted  up  a 
standard  when  anger  was  coming  on  like  a  cloud,  else  I  should  hare  wrung  bis 
neck  to  the  ground,  and  set  roy  foot  upon  him.** 

f  She  was  a  Miss  Titchborne,  niece  to  Lord  Farrand.  Her  sister  married 
Daniel  Pulteney,  a  statesman  of  some  eminence,  grandfather  of  the  late  Coun- 
tess of  Bath,  and  cousin  to  William  Pulteney,  Earl  of  Bath,  of  wliom  frequent 
mention  ii  nwde  In  tbii  work. 


I^ELlKAi  COUNTS88  OF  HUNTINGDON.  259 

sequences  of  his  eruel  and  illegal  impressment  had  cost  him  his 
life".  He  was  seized  with  a  fever,  the  eflfect  of  fatigue  and 
agitation  of  mind ;  after  venesection  ill-performed,  the  lancet 
wound  in  his  arm  festered  and  mortified — the  limb  was  ampu- 
tated, and  he  died  soon  after  the  amputation. 

For  a  few  years  during  Lord  Huntingdon's  life,  Ledstone 
Hall  was  visited  every  summer,  and  on  these  occasions  there  was 
always  frequent  preaching  at  the  church.  Mr.  Ingham's  socie- 
ties mcreased  rapidly,  and  spread  not  only  througn  all  parts  of 
Yorkshire,  but  also  into  Lancashire,  Lincolnshire,  and  Cheshire. 
General  meetings  of  the  preachers  and  exhorters  in  the  con*- 
nexion  were  held  frequently,  and  plans  were  formed  for  the 
better  regulation  of  the  societies,  and  a  more  general  diffusion 
of  divine  truth  in  places  that  had  not  been  visited  before.  Lady 
Huntingdon  and  Lady  Margaret  Ingham  attended  several  of 
these  meetings.  The  assemblies  were  exceedingly  numerous, 
and  there  was  always  preaching  in  the  open  air.  Mr.  Grimshaw 
invariably  attended  these  meetings,  and  always  preached,  never 
troubling  himself  to  ask  the  consent  of  the  minister  of  the 
parish,  or  caring  whether  he  liked  it  not.  The  providence  of 
God  favoured  him  in  these  attempts ;  for  thaugh  unsupported 
by  great  patronage,  and  unsolicitous  to  obtain  it,  and  though  he 
went  far  beyond  all  his  contemporaries  in  this  novel  and  to  some 
offensive  method,  by  which  envy,  jealousy,  and  displeasure 
were  excited  against  nim ;  yet  he  was  not  restrained,  nor  nave  we 
heard  that  he  met  with  any  serious  or  determined  marks  of 
disapprobation  from  his  superiors  in  the  Church.  It  is  most 
probable  they  imagined  him  so  determined,  intrepid,  and  un- 
daunted, that  it  would  be  a  vain  task  to  attempt  to  restrain  or 
oppose  him  in  his  career.  But  he  sometimes  met  with  oppo- 
sition from  those  who  hated  to  be  reformed.  He  was  once  dis- 
turbed by  a  set  of  rioters,  when  preaching  at  Colne,  in  Lanca- 
shire, to  which  place  he  was  accompanied  by  Mr.  Ingham  and 
Mr.  Batty,  both  of  whom  had  been  tnere  several  times,  and  had 
been  successful  in  establishing  a  small  socictjr. 

After  they  had  commenced  the  meeting  with  singing  a  hymn 
the  Rev.  George  White,  the  vicar  of  Colne  and  Marsden, 
rushed  furiouslv  into  the  house  with  a  staff  in  his  hand,  attended 
by  the  constable  and  a  mob  collected  from  the  lowest  and  most 
depraved  people  of  the  town.  Mr.  White  sprang  towards  Mr. 
Batty,  with  intent  to  strike  him,  which  Mr.  Ingham  perceiving, 
pulled  him  on  one  side,  and  retired  into  an  adjoining  room. 
The  vicar  and  constable  threatened  the  master  of  the  house 
with  the  stocks,  and  attempted  to  take  him  away  by  force,  but 
upon  his  demandiog  of  the  constable  his  authority  for  acting  in 
s  2 


260  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

this  manner,  they  desisted,  but  succeeded  in  driving  the  people 
away.  They  then  insisted  that  Mr.  Ingham  and  Mr.  Grimshaw 
should  sign  a  paper,  promising  not  to  preach  in  Colne  parish 
during  one  whole  year,  under  the  penalty  of  fifty  pounds.  The 
refusing  to  comply  with  so  unreasonable  a  demand,  and  remon- 
strating against  such  scandalous  and  disgraceful  proceedings  on 
the  part  of  a  clergyman,  the  mob  was  ordered  by  the  vicar, 
whom  they  styled  "  Captain-General,*  to  lead  their  prisoners 
towards  Colne,  and  on  the  way  they  beat  and  abused  every  friend 
who  attempted  to  speak  to  them.  Several  times  the  mob 
proposed  that  Mr.  Grimshaw  and  Mr.  Ingham  should  sign  the 
paper  not  to  preach  for  six  months,  then  two,  and  lastly,  if  they 
would  promise  upon  their  word  and  honour  they  should  be  set 
at  libertv.  But  when  it  was  understood  that  Mr.  Grimshaw, 
Mr.  Ingliam,  and  Mr.  Batty,  refused  to  comply  with  any 
terms,  they  were  violently  dragged  along  the  road,  the  mob 
flourishing  their  clubs  over  their  heads,  menacing  and  annoy- 
ing. They  were  pelted  with  mud  and  dirt,  and  Mr.  Ing- 
ham's coat  torn,  and  hanging  on  the  ground ;  thus  they  were 
conducted  to  the  Swan  inn,  to  remain  there  till  dismissed  at 
Mr.  White's  pleasure. 

On  another  occasion  Mr.  Wesley  accompanied  Mr.  Grim- 
shaw to  Roughlee,  where  they  were  joined  by  Mr.  Battv  and 
Mr.  Colbeck,  two  of  Mr.  Ingham's  preachers.  Mr.  Wesley 
preached,  but  before  he  had  got  half  through  his  discourse  a 
great  mob  from  Colne  came  pouring  down  tne  hill  like  a  tor- 
rent. After  exchanging  a  few  words  with  their  captain,  who, 
stated  that  he  was  a  deputy-constable,  to  prevent  any  contest, 
Mr.  Wesley,  Mr.  Grimshaw,  Mr.  Batty,  and  Mr.  Colbeck,  went 
with  him  to  Barrowford,  about  two  miles  distant,  as  he  required. 
They  were  escorted  there  by  a  drunken  rabble,  armed  with  clubs 
and  staves,  who  behaved  in  a  very  troublesome  and  riotous 
manner,  and  uttered  oaths  and  imprecations  the  entire  time. 
On  being  brought  before  the  magistrate,  he  demanded  a  pro- 
mise from  Mr.  Wesley  and  his  friends  that  they  would  preach 
no  more  at  Roughlee,  but  this  Mr.  Wesley  stoutly  refused. 
When  Mr.  Wesley  attempted  to  leave  the  house  the  mob  imme- 
diately followed  and  beat  him  to  the  ground.  Mr.  Grimshaw, 
in  attempting  to  make  his  escape,  was  tossed  to  and  fro  with  the 
utmost  violence,  and  covered  with  dirt  and  mire  of  every  sort. 
Those  who  accompanied  them  were  not  allowed  to  depart  with- 
out the  most  savage  treatment:  they  were  made  to  run  for 
their  lives,  amidst  showers  of  stones  and  dirt,  without  any  regard 
to  age  or  sex.  Some  were  trampled  in  the  mire,  others  dragged 
by  tne  hair  along  the  road,  and  many  beaten  with  clubs  with- 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  261 

out  mercy.  One  man  was  forced  to  leap  from  a  rock  ten  or 
twelve  feet  high  into  the  river,  and  when  he  crawled  out,  wet 
and  bruised,  they  threw  him  in  again,  so  that  he  scarcely  escaped 
with  his  life,  but  died  soon  after  from  the  effects  of  such  ill- 
treatment. 

Whenever  the  vicar  of  Colne  heard  of  the  arrival  of  any  of  the 
Methodists  in  his  neighbourhood,  it  was  his  usual  practice  to 
call  the  people  together  by  beat  of  drum,  issue  a  proclamation 
at  the  market  cross,  and  enlist  a  mob  for  the  defence  of  the 
Church  against  the  incursions  of  the  Methodists.  The  follow- 
ing proclamation,  a  curiosity  of  its  sort,  is  transcribed  from  the 
voluminous  private  journals  of  Mr.  Ingham  and  Mr.  Batty,  in 
their  hand-writing — journals  which  contain  a  mass  of  information 
relative  to  the  spread  of  religion  in  the  North  of  England,  of  the 
deepest  interest : — 

^^  Notice  is  hereby  givcD,  that  if  any  man  be  mindful  to  enlist  in  his 
Majesty's  service,  under  the  command  of  the  Rev.  Mr.  George  White^ 
Commander-in-Chief,  and  John  Bannister,  Lieut.-Generol,  of  his  Ma- 
jesty's Forces  for  the  defence  of  the  Church  of  England,  and  the  support 
of  the  Manufactory  in  and  about  Colne,  both  which  are  now  in  dtmger, 
let  him  repair  to  the  drum-head  at  the  Cross,  where  each  man  ^all 
receive  a  pint  of  ale  in  advance,  and  all  other  proper  encouragements.' 

Such  was  the  conduct  of  the  then  Vicar  of  Colne.* 
Several  new  societies  were  formed  in  Yorkshire,  and  some 
changes  were  made  in  their  discipline.  On  the  admission  of  a 
member  into  their  societies  he  received  a  ticket,  which  gave  him 
admission  to  their  meetings,  which  were  very  numerous,  con- 
sisting of  general  meetings,  love-feasts,  choir-meetings  of 
men,  and  choir-meetings  of  women,  &c.  &c.  Stewards  were 
also  appointed,  and  the  societies  were  constantly  visited  by  the 
itinerant  preachers,  who  were  a  kind  of  general  rulers  or  elders 

*  This  wretched  enemy  to  aU  serious  religion  was  educated  at  Douay,  in 
France,  for  orders  in  the  Church  of  Rome  ;  but,  upon  his  recantation,  was  no- 
ticed by  Archbishop  Potter,  and  by  him  recommended  to  the  Vicar  of  Whalley, 
who  appointed  him  Vicar  of  Colne.  He  was  neither  devoid  of  parts  nor  litera- 
ture, but  childishly  ignorant  of  common  life,  and  shamefully  inattentive  to  his 
duty,  which  he  frequently  abandoned,  for  weeks  together,  to  such  accidental 
assistance  as  the  parish  could  procure.  On  one  occasion  he  is  said  to  have 
read  the  funeral  service  more  than  twenty  times  in  a  single  night  over  the  dead 
that  had  been  interred  in  his  absence.  With  these  glaring  imperfections  in  his 
own  character,  he  sought  to  distinguish  himself  by  a  riotous  opposition  to  the 
Methodists.  He  was  a  notorious  drunkard,  and  drank  himself  first  into  a  gaol, 
and  then  into  his  grave.  He  was  interred  in  his  own  church,  April  29th,  1751. 
It  is  reported  and  believed  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Colne,  that  Mr.  White,  when 
on  his  dying  bed,  sent  for  Mr.  Grimshaw,  expressed  his  concern  for  having 
opposed  him,  being  fidly  convinced  of  the  impropriety  of  his  former  conduct, 
and  begged  the  assistance  of  his  instructions  and  prayers.^See  History  of 
WhaUey,  Pmil  199,  &c  by  the  Rev.  T.  D.  Whitaker. 


368  TH£  Uf  £  AND  TIMES  O? 

Yorkshire,  Westmoreland,  Cumberland,  and  Lancashire,  vith 
parts  of  Cheshire,  Derbyshire,  and  Lincolnshire,  were  included 
m  their  circuit. 

Count  Zinzendorff  assisted  in  these  regulations,  as  did  his 
son-in-law,  Joannes  de  Watteville,*  a  bishop  of  the  Moravian 
Church.  This  goodman  had  been  married  the  preceding  year  to 
Henrietta-Benigna-Justina,'eldest  daughter  of  Count  ZinzendorfT, 
and  after  a  short  visit  to  the  congregations  of  the  Brethren  in 
England,  was  to  proceed  to  America.  Lady  Margaret  Ingham 
was  particularly  pleased  with  the  missionary  spirit  displayed  by 
the  Bishop's  consort,  who  had  accompanied  her  father  to  Ame- 
rica in  1741,  and  was  now  again  about  to  visit  that  continent, 
full  of  zeal  for  the  cause  of  God. 

Count  Zinzendorff  had  come  to  England  to  watch  the  cause 
of  the  Moravians  in  Parliament,  and  to  arrange  the  afiairs  of  bis 
Church,  by  appointing  Dr.  Wilson,  Bishop  of  Sodor  and  Man, 
to  succeed  Dr.  Cochins,  Dean  of  the  King  of  Prussia's  Chapel, 
in  its  administration.  On  a  subsequent  visit  the  Count  was 
accompanied  by  the  Countess  of  Zinzendorff,  Count  Reuss,  and 
Agnes^Sophia,  Countess  of  Promnitz.  On  their  way  to  York- 
shire they  had  spent  a  few  days  with  Lady  Huntingdon,  at 
Donnington  Park,  and  were  delighted  and  edified  by  the  piety 
and  zeal  of  the  Countess  and  the  Ladies  Hastings.  The  Countess 
Zinzendorff,  whose  maiden  name  was  Erdmurth-Dorothea,  Coun- 
tess Reuss,  was  a  woman  eminently  devoted  to  God,  and  much 
esteemed  by  Lady  Huntingdon,  and  Lady  Mar^ret  Ingham. 
Whilst  they  remained  with  Mr.  Ingham,  the  negotiation  between 
him  and  the  Count,  concerning  the  premises  on  which  the  con- 
gregation-place is  built,  was  concluded.  Mr.  Ingham  accom- 
panied them  in  their  visits  to  the  congregations  at  Pudsey, 
.  Gomersal,  Mirfield,  Wyke,  and  Dukenfield,  in  Cheshire,  and 
preached  very  frequently  to  large  congregations  in  the  Brethren's 
chapels.  On  their  return  to  London,  a  Provincial  Synod  was 
held  at  Lindsev-House,  Chelsea,  at  which  the  Rev.  Jonn  Gam- 
bold,  rector  oi  Stanton  Harcourt,  Oxfordshire,  a  man  greatly 
esteemed  for  his  piety  and  learning,  and  Mr.  Ingham's  contem- 
porai^  and  companion  at  Oxford,  was  consecrated  a  Bishop  of 
the  Church  of  the  Brethren. 

Much  about  the  same  time,  the  Rev.  John  Cennick  arrived 
in  Yorkshire,  to  assist  Mr.  Ingham  in  the  great  work  in  which 
he  was  engaged.  This  good  man,  whose  grandfather  had  been  a 
Bohemian  refugee,  had  been  preaching  for  Mr.  Whitefield  in  and 

*  This  name  he  owed  to  his  adoption  (confirmed  by  ah  imperial  diploma)  by 
the  Baron  de  Watteville. 


SELINA5  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  263 

about  Bristol,  especially  to  the  colliers  at  Kingswood,  and  also 
in  Wiltshire,  with  much  blessing,  and  endured  much  persecution 
in  many  places,  especially  at  Exeter.  After  preaching  a  consi- 
derable time  amongst  Mr.  Ingham's  societies,  and  those  formed 
by  the  United  Brethren  in  Yorkshire  and  Bedfordshire,  he  went 
over  to  Germany  for  a  short  time,  and  after  his  return  received 
a  pressing  invitation  to  visit  Ireland,  and  try  to  diffusa  in  that 
benighted  country  the  light  of  the  Sun  of  Righteousness. 

No  name  of  professing  Protestants  in  our  day  has  displayed 
more  fervent  zeal  for  the  characteristic  principles  of  Christianity 
than  the  Moravian  Brethren,  With  peculiarities,  perhaps,  in 
some  respects  exceptionable,  vet  admitting  no  such  impure  ideas 
as  imputed  to  them  by  a  Warburton,  a  Lavington,  and  the  trans- 
lator of  Mosheim,  the  more  the  principles  of  the  Brethren  are 
truly  known,  and  the  more  intimately  their  lives  are  scrutinized) 
the  more  will  they  be  acknowledged  among  the  few  faithful  who 
follow  the  Ijamb  in  the  regeneration.  On  their  first  introduction 
into  England,  they  were  led  into  many  rhapsodies  and  startling 
singulanties  of  sentiment  and  ceremony.  Time,  happily,  has 
so  pruned  the  wild  luxuriance  and  the  worldly  policy  of  Mora^^ 
vianism,  that  it  is  almost  impossible  to  believe  now  that  Molther 
ever  taught  the  doctrines,  or  Nitschmann  ever  sung  the  hymns» 
or  Zinzendorff  ever  sanctioned  the  practices  in  London  which 
Whitefield  and  Wesley  exposed.  Their  conduct  in  many  in- 
stances did  them  no  credit.  They  first  alarmed,  and  then 
alienated  both  Watts  and  Doddridge,  as  well  as  Whitefield  and 
Weslev.  L^ady  Huntingdon  seems  to  have  kept  herself  more 
aloof  itoxa  any  connexion  with  them,  and  to  have  early  discovered 
some  of  their  perilous  errors.  Charles  Weslev  was  saved  by 
her  means,  when  she  induced  him  to  withdraw  /rom  the  society 
in  Fetter-lane,  and  Mr.  Ingham  was  eventually  rescued  by  the 
influence  she  bad  over  him. 


W«i 


264  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 


CHAPTER  XVI. 

Mr.  Whiteiield  returns  to  England Writes'to  Mr.  Ingham-. Visits  Yorkshire 

— Lady  Huntingdon  in  Yorkshire— Extraordinary  Occurrence — Mr.  Graves 

— Mr.  Milner Mr.  Grimshaw — Conference  at  Leeds — Mr,  Ingham  chosen 

General  Oversteer — Mr.  Charles  Wesley— Mr.  Whitefield  at  Haworth— Ing- 
hamite  Churches — Church  Discipline — Inghamite  Preachers — Mr.  Newton 
visits  Yorkshire — His  Letter  to  Mr.  Wesley — Anecdote  of  his  preaching  at 
Leeds — Mr.  Romaine — His  Opinion  of  the  Inghamite  Churches—Lady  Hun- 
tingdon at  Aberford — Mr.  Romaine  preaches  in  Mr.  Ingham's  Chapels — Mr. 
George  Burder.;-.Mr.  Romaine  at  Haworth — Mr.  Grimshaw — Sandeman*s 
Letters—Church  Government. 

Early  in  the  month  of  July,  1748,  Mr.  Whitefield  arrived  in 
England,  after  an  absence  of  nearly  four  years.  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon had  apprized  Lady  Margaret  Ingham  of  his  return,  and 
the  joy  that  pervaded  vast  numbers  of  persons  in  the  metropolis 
at  seeing  him  once  more  among  them.  Mr.  Ingham  wrote  to 
his  old  and  endeared  friend,  and  soon  after  received  an  affection- 
ate reply  from  the  great  and  good  man,  who  was  now  actively 
engaged  in  preaching  publicly  and  "  privately  to  those  that  were 
of  reputation,"  at  Lady  Huntingdon's  house.  From  this  letter 
we  make  an  extract : — 

"As  for  me,  I  am  a  poor,  worthless  pilgrim,  and  thought  long  ere 
now  to  be  with  Him  who  has  loved  and  given  liimself  for  me.  But  it 
seems  I  am  not  yet  to  die,  but  live.  0  that  it  may  be  to  declare  the 
work  of  the  Lord  I  I  think  this  is  tlie  tkhieenth  province  I  have  been 
in  within  this  twelvemontk,  in  each  of  which  our  Lord  has  been  pleased 
to  set  his  seal  to  my  unworthy  ministry.  I  came  from  Bermudas  last, 
where  I  left  many  souls  seeking  after  Jesus  of  Nazareth.  In  London, 
Bristol,  Gloucester,  and  Wales,  the  glorious  Immanuel,  since  my  arrival, 
has  appeared  to  his  people.  In  about  a  fortnight  I  purpose  leaving 
town  again,  in  order  to  go  a  circuit  of  about  five  hundred  miles.  I  need 
not  to  tell  you  how  glad  I  shall  be,  whenever  opportunity  offers,  to  see 
you  face  to  face.  In  the  meanwhile  let  us  correspond  by  letter.  May 
Jesus  bless  it  to  us  both  !  I  return  cordial  respects  to  Lady  Margaret. 
I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  her  and  her  little  nursery.  For  the  present, 
Adieu !" 

The  year  following  Mr.  Whitefield  visited  Yorkshire.  Mr. 
Ingham  and  Mr.  Batty  accompanied  him  through  the  country, 
and  occasionally  preached  with  him.  At  Leeds,  Mr.  Charles 
Wesley  announced  him  from  the  pulpit,  and  afterwards  intro- 
duced him  to  the  pulpit  at  Newcastle.  Having  preached  about 
thirty  times  in  Yorkshire,  he  accompanied  Mn  Ingham  into 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  265 

Cheshire,  and  Lancashire,  where  he  was  attended  by  amazing 
multitudes.  At  Manchester  they  were  gratified  by  meeting 
Mrs.  Colonel  Galatin. 

''  I  conversed  (he  says)  for  about  two  hours  with  the  Captain  and 
some  other  officers,  upon  the  nature  and  necessity  of  the  new  birth. 
He  was  affected,  and  I  hope  it  was  blessed.  Since  I  left  them  I  have 
preached  to  many  thousands  at  Rosindale,  Aywood,  and  HaUfax,  at 
Birstal,  Pudsey,  and  Armley,  and  have  had  three  precious  seasons 
here.  Congregations  are  exceedingly  large  indeed,  and  both  the  Esta- 
blished and  Dissenting  Clergy  arc  very  angry.  They  thundered,  I  hear, 
yesterday  heartily.  But  truth  is  great  and  will  prevail,  though  preached 
in  the  fields  and  streets." 

On  some  of  these  visits  in  Yorkshire  he  was  accompanied 
by  Lady  Huntingdon,  who  delighted  in  such  scenes  as  sne  fre- 
quently witnessed,  both  in  this  county  and  in  Gloucestershire. 
"  This  (said  her  Ladyship)  the  world  calls  enthusiasm,  but  I 
call  it  the  work  of  God."* 

At  one  of  these  assemblies,  when  Mr.  Whitefield  mounted 
the  temporary  scaffold  to  address  the  thousands  spread  before 
him,  he  was  observed  to  engage  in  secret  prayer  for  a  few  seconds. 
Then  casting  a  look  over  the  multitude,  elevated  his  hands  and 
in  an    energetic  manner   implored    the   Divine    blessing   and 

Eresence.  With  a  solemnity  peculiarly  his  own,  he  announced 
is  text — It  is  appointed  unto  men  once  to  die^  and  after  deatfi 
the  judgment.  After  a  short  pause,  as  he  was  about  to  proceed, 
a  wild,  terrifying  shriek  issued  from  the  centre  of  the  congre- 
gation. A  momentary  alarm  and  confusion  ensued.  Mr.  White- 
held  waited  to  ascertain  the  cause,  and  besought  the  people  to 
remain  still.  Mr.  Grimshaw  hurried  to  the  spot,  ana  in  a  few 
minutes  was  seen  pressing  through  the  crowd  towards  the  place 
where  Mr.  Whitefield  stood.  "Brother  Whitefield  (said  he, 
with  that  energy  which  manifested  in  the  strongest  manner  the 
intensity  of  his  feelings,  and  the  ardour  of  his  concern  for  the 
salvation  of  sinners),  you  stand  amongst  the  dead  and  the  dying 
— an  immortal  soul  has  been  called  into  eternity — the  destroying 
angel  is  passing  over  the  congregation,  cry  aloud,  and  spare 
not !  The  awful  occurrence  was  speedily  announced  to  the 
people.    After  the  lapse  of  a  few  moments,  Mr.  Whitefield  again 

•  It  was  customary  at  these  times  to  read  the  prayers  in  the  church ;  they 
then  went  into  the  cnufch>yard,  and,  upon  a  scaffold  erected  for  that  purpose, 
addressed  listening  thousands,  who  seemed  to  hear  as  for  eternity.  Having 
finished  the  discourse,  they  returned  into  the  church,  and  administered  the 
Lord's  Supper  to  as  many  as  the  church  would  contain;  when  these 'had 
received  they  withdrew,  and  the  church  filled  again,  and  this  was  repeated  until 
hU  had  communicated.  A  succession  of  sermons  were  preached  at  short  inter- 
vals, interspersed  ^vith  appropriate  hymns,  and  the  people  returned  to  their 
houses  grateful  and.rejoicing  in  the  love  of  the  Lord. 


966  THS  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

announced  his  text.  Again  a  loud  and  piercing  shriek  pro* 
ceeded  from  the  spot  where  Lady  Huntingdon  and  Lady  Mar- 
garet Ingham  were  standing.  A  thrill  of  horror  seemed  to 
spread  itself  over  the  multitude  when  it  was  understood  that  a 
second  person  had  fallen  a  victim  to  the  king  of  terrors.  When 
the  consternation  had  somewhat  subsided,  Mr,  Whitefield  gave 
indications  of  his  intention  of  proceeding  with  the  service.  The 
excited  feelings  of  many  were  wound  up  to  their  highest  point. 
All  was  hushed*— not  a  sound  was  to  be  heard-^^nd  a  stillness, 
like  the  awful  stillness  of  death,  spread  itself  over  the  assembly, 
as  he  proceeded  in  a  strain  of  tremendous  eloquence  to  warn 
the  careless,  Christless  sinner,  to  flee  from  the  wrath  to  come. 

In  allusion  to  this  journey,  Mr.  Charles  Wesley,  bears  a  very 
singular  and  striking  testimony  to  the  candour  and  liberality  of 
Mr.  Whitefield.  He  had  struggled  hard  to  reconcile  Mr.  Ben- 
nett to  the  Wesleys,  and  at  Chinley  and  Bolton  tried  all  the 
gentle  arts  of  the  peace -maker,  showing  how  easy  it  was  for  those 
who  had]  a  great  and  common  end  to  agree  to  differ  on  minor 
points. 

*'  At  Manchester  (says  Mr.  C.  Wesley  J  I  rejoice  to  see  the  great 
good  Mr.  Whitefield  hoM  done  in  our  societies.  He  preached  as  uni- 
versally as  my  brother.  He  warned  them  everywhere  against  apostasy, 
and  insisted  on  the  necessity  of  holiness  afler  justification.  He  beat 
down  the  separating  spirit — ^highly  commending  the  prayers  and  services 
of  our  Churoh<.**«harged  our  people  to  meet  their  bands  and  classes 
constantly,  and  never  to  leave  the  Methodisti,  or  God  would  leave 
them.  In  a  word,  he  did  his  utmost  to  strengUien  our  bonds,  and  he 
deserves  the  thanks  of  all  the  Church  for  his  abundant  love," 

After  itinerating  through  Lancashire,  Mr.  Whitefield,  Mr. 
Grimshaw,  Mr.  Ingham,  and  Mr.  Milner  proceeded  to  Man- 
chester, Stockport,  and  Chinley,  where  one  of  the  separations 
above  alluded  to  had  taken  place ;  and  where,  as  at  Bolton,  Mr. 
Whitefield  endeavoured  to  heal  the  breach.  His  heavenly  frame 
of  mind  in  this  journey  is  no  less  remarkable  than  his  physical 
strength,  which  must  have  been  renewed  like  that  of  the  ea^le ; 
and  the  list  of  places  and  dates  at  which  he  preached  would  lead 
us  to  imagine  tnat  he  must  have  possessed  also  the  eagle's  wings. 
He  woula  stop  at  Rotherham,  however,  because  the  insults  he 
had  formerly  received  there  had  tempted  him  to  return  no 
more.  Then  he  thought  no  good  was  done.  Now  he  found 
the  chief  family  of  his  "bitter  persecutors"  (the  Thorpes)* 

*  See  page  149.  Mr.  Thorpe,  after  his  conversion,  joined  the  Wesleyans,  and 
Mr.  Wesley  wisely  stationed  him  at  Rotherham.  He  afterwards  withdrew  from 
the^Metbodists  «nd  became  the  pastor  of  an  Independent  congregation.  His 
son,  the  Rev.  W.  Thorpe,  was  mmlfter  of  the  CatUe-green  at  Bristol. 


sELiMAf  oouKnaa  of  hvktjnodon.  sa? 

convertod  to  God,  and  ready  to  welcome  him  under  their  roof. 
Mr.  Charles  Wesley  was  then  in  Yorkshire,  met  Mr.  Grimshaw 
at  Seacroft,  and  they  proceeded  together  to  Leeds,  where  (he 
says)  "  I  found  my  brother  Whitefield,  and  was  much  refreshed 
by  the  account  of  his  abundant  labours.  I  waited  on  him  to 
our  room,  and  gladly  sat  under  his  word."  From  Leeds  he 
went  to  Birstal,  "  where  my  congregation  (says  he)  was  a  thou- 
sand or  two  less,  through  George  Whitefield's  preaching  to-day 
at  Haworth.  Between  four  and  five  thousand  were  leit  to  re- 
ceive my  warning  from  Luke  xxi.  34.  After  church  service, 
we  met  a^in ;  every  soul  seemed  to  hang  on  the  word.  Two 
such  precious  opportunities  I  have  not  enjoyed  this  many  a  day. 
It  was  the  old  time  revived.  A  weighty  spirit  rested  on  the 
congregation,  and  they  stood  like  men  prepared  to  meet  the 
Lord." 

At  Leeds  Mr.  White&eld  addressed  an  assembly  of  at  least 
20,000.  Even  York  could  not  withstand  the  fascination  of  his 
field-preaching ;  there  the  Methodists  thinned  out  the  minister 
and  overawed  the  mob.  At  Bradford,  no  place  of  worship  being 
large  enough  to  contain  the  crowd  of  hearers,  he  preached  in  a 
large  open  space  near  the  water-side.* 

At  Birstal  a  platform  was  erected  at  the  foot  of  a  hill  adjoin- 
ing the  town,  whence  Mr.  Whitefield  addressed  a  concourse  of 
not  fewer  than  twenty  thousand,  who  were  ranged  before  him 
on  the  declivity  of  a  hill  in  the  form  of  an  amphitheatre.  At 
Haworth,  a  temporary  booth  was  erected  in  a  field,  near  the 
house  of  Mr.  Grimshaw's  son,  for  Mr.  Whitefield  and  the  other 
ministers.  Not  only  the  field,  but  the  woodland  above  it,  were 
covered  with  crowds  collected  from  difierent  parts.  An  unusual 
solemnity  pervaded  this  vast  multitude,  and  at  the  close  of  the 
service. the  100th  psalm  was  sung,  and  concluded  with  Mr,  Grim* 
shaw's  favourite  doxology — 

'^  Praise  God  from  whom  all  blessings  flow/'  Sec. 

The  volume  of  sound  produced  by  the  united  voices  of  thou- 
sands, while  it  re-echoed  through  the  vale  below,  is  said  to  have 
had  such  an  effect  as  no  language  can  describe. 

•  **  flay  under  the  scafTold  Tsaid  the  Rev.  Dr.  Fawcett,  then  a  boy,  but 
afterwards  a  distinguished  preacner,)  and  it  appeared  m  if  aU  his  words  were 
addressed  tu  mc,  and  as  if  oe  had  known  my  most  secret  thoughtJt  from  ten 
years  of  age.**  *'  As  long  as  life  remains  (he  would  say)  I  shall  remember  both 
the  text  and  the  sermon.**  ^ 

t  Mr.  Graves,  the  vicar  of  Clapham,  Yorkshire,  was  now  visited  bv  Mr. 
Ingham  ;  and  now  it  was  that  Mr.  Milner,  incumbent  of  Chipping,  near  Soltoo, 


268  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

In  May  1766  Mr.  Ingham  summoned  several  of  his  preacbersf 
to  meet  him  at  Leeds,  in  order  to  attend  the  Methodist  Confer- 
ence which  was  then  sitting.  Mr.  Wesley  admitted  Mr.  Ingham, 
but  Mr.  Batty,  Mr.  Allen,  and  the  other  preachers  were  ex- 
cluded— 

"  The  point  (says  Mr.  Wesley)  on  which  we  desired  all  the  preachers 
to  speak  their  minds  at  large  was,  whether  we  ought  to  separate 
from  the  Church  ?  Whatever  was  advanced  on  the  one  side  or  the 
other  was  seriously  and  calmly  considered  ;  and  on  the  third  day  we 
were  all  fully  agreed  in  that  general  conclusion^  that  whether  it  was 
lawful  or  not,  it  was  no  ways  expedient" 

Some  time  after  the  Conference  at  Leeds,  Mr.  Ingham  went 
to  Derbyshire  and  Lincolnshire,  and  from  thence  to  Ashby,  on 
a  visit  to  Lady  Huntingdon.*  During  his  stay  he  preached 
frequently  at  her  Ladyship's  and  in  the  neighbourhood,  to  very 
numerous  congregations.  On  his  return  to  Yorkshire  he  was 
accompanied  by  her  Ladyship,  who  remained  some"  time,  and 
visited  most  of  the  societies  in  the  neighbourhood.  Whilst  she 
was  in  Yorkshire  a  general  meeting  was  held  at  Winewall.  At 
this  Conference  it  was  agreed  among  the  preachers— ^r^/, 
that  justification  consists  in  the  forgiveness  of  sins,  and  an  im- 
putation of  Christ's  righteousnesss,  and  that  the  instrumental 
cause  of  this  is  faith  in  Christ ;  secondly^  that  sanctification 
consists  not  in  holy  actions,  but  in  the  divine  life,  new  heart  and 
spirit,  which  are  given  by  Jesus  Christ  at  our  justification ;  and 

in  Lancashire,  put  his  lips  to  the  Gospel  trumpet  and  proclaimed  the  truth  in 
Yorkshire.  "  Mr.  Graves  (says  he  in  a  letter  to  Mr.  Wesley)  is  convinced  of 
the  truth,  and  preaches  it  with  power,  not  only  in  church  but  also  from  house 
to  house  ;  but  he  has  had  much  opposition  from  the  Moravians  on  the  one  side 
and  the  profane  scoffers  on  the  other."  He  then  goes  on  to  deplore  Mr.  Ing- 
ham *s  "  entanglement"  with  the  **  still  brethren,"  and  earnestly  recommends  to 
Mr.  Wesley  to  conciliate  Mr.  Ingham,  *'  who  (he  says),  with  all  respect  for  you, 
thinks  you  have  not  done  justice  to  Count  Zinzendorf. "  It  was  now,  too,  that 
the  Rev.  John  Bennet,  of  Chinley  in  Derbyshire,  separated  from  Mr.  Wesley, 
and  a  portion  of  his  congregation  taking  part  with  him,  a  chapel  was  raised  for 
him  at  Bolton,  and  the  congregation  organized  on  the  plan  of  an  independent 
church.  Here  he  continued  ministering  until  his  death,  in  1750.  He  was 
married  in  the  presence  of  Messrs.  Wesley  and  Whitefield,  at  Newcastle,  in  1749, 
to  the  celebrated  Grace  Murray,  whose  memoirs  were  published  in  1804,  by  her 
son,  the  pastor  of  a  dissenting  congregation  in  London. 

•  While  he  was  absent,  Mr.  C.  Wesley,  who  had  been  employed  in  York, 
not  only  in  preaching,  but  in  attending  persons  of  learning  and  character,  who 
were  desirous  of  stating  their  objections  to  the  doctrines  and  economy  of  the 
Methodists,  and  to  hear  his  answers,  went  to  Aberford.  *'  I  had  the  happiness 
(says  he)  of  finding  Ladv  Margaret  Ingham  at  home,  and  their  son,  Ignatius. 
She  informed  me  that  Mr.  Ingham's  circuit  takes  in  about  four  hundred  miles; 
that  he  has  six  fellow-labourers  and  several  thousand  persons  in  his  societies', 
most  of  them  converted.  I  rejoiced  in  his  success,  Ignatius  would  hardly  be* 
satisfied  at  my  preaching.** 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OV  HUNTINGDON.  269 

love,  joy,  and  peace,  and  all  the  graces  or  fruits  of  the  Spirit ; 
and  lastli/,  that  all  good  jworks  spring  from  this,  as  fruit  from 
a  tree.  At  this  meeting,  several  matters  relating  to  Church 
government  were  discussed.  And  it  being  also  agreed  that  there 
should  be  a  general  overseer  chosen  and  appointed  by  the 
preachers  and  with  consent  of  the  societies,  Mr.'  Ingham  was 
set  apart  to  the  office ;  who  then  proceeded  to  the  dedication 
of  Mr.  Batty,  and  Mr.  Allen  as  his  fellow-helpers.  They 
severally  gave  an  account  to  the  congregation  of  their  conversion 
and  call  to  the  ministry,  and  being  examined  respecting  the 
doctrines  they  had  preached  and  intended  to  preach  in  future, 
were  solemnly  ordained  by  the  laying  on  of  hands  and  prayer  of 
the  general  overseer. 

From  this  period.  Lady  Huntingdon  used  to  call  Mr.  Ingham 
a  Bishop,  She  was,  ho\^ever,  far  from  approving  many  of  the 
rules  and  regulations  which  had  been  adopted  by  the  Conference 
on  the  subject  of  Church  government  and  discipline;  and, 
whilst  she  was  at  Aberford,  conferred  with  Mr.  Ingham  for 
effecting  a  more  perfect  union  by  accomodating  matters  with 
Mr.  Wesley.  At  this  juncture  Mr.  Whitefield  again  visited 
Yorkshire,  and  accompanied  Mr.  Ingham  to  Mr.  Grimshaw's, 
where  the  subject  of  attempting  a  reconciliation  with  the 
Methodists  was  renewed.  Mr.  Whitefield  thereupon  proceeded 
to  Newcastle-upon-Tyne,  where  he  met  Messrs.  John  and 
Charles  Wesley,  and  was  commissioned  by  Mr.  Ingham  to  offer 
them  his  house  at  Aberford,  for  the  purpose  of  discussing  the 
subject ;  to  which  proposal  Mr.  Charles  Wesley  readily  assented, 
but  his  brother  as  decidedly  objected.  Mr.  Ingham's  views  at 
that  time  were  very  different  from  Mr.  Wesley's,  and,  becoming 
gradually  more  clear  and  scriptural,  the  line  of  separation 
became  still  more  marked  and  more  distinct ;  so  that,  from  that 
time  forth,  no  further  steps  were  taken  to  effect  a  union  with 
the  Methodist  body. 

Most  of  the  preachers  who  were  raised  up  to  assist  Mr.  Ing- 
ham, like  their  predecessors,  the  first  ministers  of  the  Gospel, 
were  plain  men,  called  of  God  from  their  different  secular  vo- 
cations to  take  upon  them  this  office  and  ministry.  Edmonson, 
Hunter,  and  Brogden  had  passed  the  early  part  of  their  lives 
in  the  army :  having  been  brought  to  a  knowledge  of  the 
Gospel  through  the  instrumentality  of  Mr.  Ingham  and  those 
who  laboured  with  him,  they  soon  became  active,  zealous,  and 
intrepid  soldiers  of  the  cross,  and,  under  the  great  Captain  of 
Salvation,  wielded  the  sword  of  the  Spirit  with  extraordinary 
decision  against  the  prince  of  the  powers  of  darkness.  Hunter 
was  the  instrument  of  laying  the  foundation  of  a  congregation 


2^0  rAt  LIFE  Akt>  TtMES  O^ 

at  KIrby  Lonsdale,  to  which  place  he  invited  Mr.  Inghaiii, 
Mr.  Batty,  and  Mr.  Allen,  all  of  whom  preached  there  under 
much  persecution  and  opposition  from  Mr.  Croft,  minister  of 
Ae  parish,  and  Mr.  Cock,  minister  of  Tunstal.  Brogden  was 
pressed  for  a  soldier,  having  obtained  his  discharge  trom  the 
army  many  years  before,  whilst  preaching  in  a  licensed  house 
at  Kirby-Stephen,  in  Westmoreland.  After  remaining  in 
prison  for  some  days,  he  was  removed  to  Newcastle,  where  he 
was  confined  four  months,  at  the  expiration  of  which  time  he 
was  discharged  through  the  interest  of  Lady  Huntingdon.  It 
was  not  very  long  since  he  died,  having  attained  the  age  of  one 
hundred  years. 

The  Messrs.  Allen,  Batty,  Edwards  of  Leeds,  and  Bennet  of 
Chinley,  had  received  a  liberal  education.  Others  succeeded 
them :  the  Rev.  James  Hartley  and  the  Rev.  Richard  Smith, 
both  of  whom  had  been  awaicened  under  Mr,  Grimshaw's 
preaching,  became  pastors  of  Baptist  congregations  in  York- 
shire ;  the  Rev.  James  Crossley,  also  one  of  the  fruits  of  Mr. 
Grimshaw's  labours,  minister  of  an  Independent  Church  at 
Bradford,  with  Mr.  Molesworlh,  of  Thornhill,  and  Mr.  Fleet- 
wood Churchill,  gentlemen  descended  from  noble  families  and 
moving  in  the  upper  walks  of  lite — ^all  these  laboured  with  Mr. 
Ingham,  and  most  of  them  suffered  great  persecution  for  the 
Word  of  God  and  the  testimony  which  they  held ;  but  they 
were  enabled  to  be  faithful,  and  they  "  endured  as  seeing  Him 
who  is  invisible." 

The  late  Mr.  Newton,  also,  occasionally  laboured  amongst 
Mr.  Ingham's  societies,  preached  in  his  chapels,  and  atten(S?d 
several  of  the  general  meetings.  He  was  a  eood  deal  in  York- 
shire prior  to  his  obtaining  ordination  in  the  Established  Church, 
and  always  preached  for  Mr.  Grimshaw  and  Mr.  Ingham.  In 
a  letter  to  Mr.  Wesley,  dated  November  14,  17G0,  Mr.  New- 
ton says : — • 

*'  I  forgot  to  tell  you  in  my  last  that  I  had  the  honour  to  appear  as 
a  Methodist  preacher.  I  was  at  Haworth,  Mr.  Grimshaw  was  press- 
ing, and  prevailed.  I  spoke  in  his  house  to  about  one  hiindrea  and 
fifty  persons;  a  difficult  auditory,  in  my  circumstance,  about  half 
Methodists  and  half  Baptists.  I  was  afraid  of  displeasing  both  sides; 
but  my  text  (John  i.  29)  led  me  to  dwell  upon  a  point  in  which  wo 
were  all  agreed,  and  before  I  had  leisure  to  meddle  with  doctrines,  as 
they  are  called,  the  hour  was  expired.  In  short,  it  was  a  comfortable 
opportunity. 

'*  Methinks,  here  again,  vou  ore  ready  to  say.  Very  well ;  why  not  go 
on  in  the  same  way?  What  more  encouragement  can  you  ask,  than 
to  be  agsistod  and  acc^ted  ?    But,  however  it  may  do  for  a  time  or  so. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  ttUNTXNODON.  27  i 

I  have  not  strength  of  body  or  mind  sufficient  for  an  itinerant  preacher ; 
my  constitution  has  been  broken  for  some  years.  To  ride  a  horse  in 
the  rain,  or  more  than  above  thirty  miles  in  a  day^  usually  discomposes 
and  unfits  me  for  any  thing ;  then  you  must  allow  me  to  pay  some 
regard  to  flesh  and  blood,  though  I  would  not  consult  them.  I  have  a 
maintenance  now  in  my  hands,  the  gift  of  a  kind  Providence,  and  I  do 
not  see  that  I  have  a  call  to  involve  myself,  and  a  person  who  has  en- 
trusted all  her  concerns  to  me  (and  must  share  in  whatever  I  feel),  in 
want  and  difficulties.  I  have  likewise  an  orphan  sister,  for  whom  it  is 
my  duty  to  provide ;  consequently  it  cannot  be  my  duty  to  disable  my- 
self from  fulfilling  what  I  owe  her.  And  still  the  weightiest  difficulty 
remains  :  too  many  of  the  preachers  are  very  dififerent  from  Mr.  Grim- 
shaw ;  and  who  would  wish  to  live  in  the  fire  ?  So  that,  though  I  lore 
the  people  called  Methodists,  and  vindicate  them  from  unjust  asper- 
sions upon  all  occasions,  and  suffer  the  reproach  of  the  world  for  being 
one  myself,  yet  it  seems  not  practicable  for  me  to  join  them  further 
than  I  do.  For  the  present  I  must  remain  as  I  am,  and  endeavour  to 
be  as  useful  as  I  can  in  private  life,  till  I  can  see  further.  I  shall  always 
be  obliged  to  you  for  your  free  sentiments  on  my  case.*" 

About  this  period  Mr.  Romaine  be^n  to  make  frequent  ex- 
cursions to  the  north  of  England.  His  father  was  a  refugee,  one 
of  the  victims  of  the  Edict  of  Nantes.  He  settled  in  Hartle- 
pool, in  the  county  of  Durham,  as  a  merchant,  and  became  a 
member  of  the  corporation,  which  is  a  very  ancient  one.  Afiter 
his  death,  in  1757,  his  surviving  widow  and  one  unmarried 
daughter  continued  the  business,  much  respected  and  beloved. 
One  of  his  sisters  married  a  Mr.  Callendar,  of  Newcastle,  the 

*  On  one  of  his  excursions  into  Yorkshire,  bein^  at  Leeds,  Mr.  Newton,  wbs 
requested  by  the  Rev.  Mr.  Edwards  to  preach  for  him  at  White  Chapel.  He  met 
a  party  of  religious  friends  at  Mr.  Edwards's  house,  which  adjoined  the  chapel, 
and  took  his  tea  (of  which  he  was  remarkably  fond)  with  them.  When  the 
hour  of  preaching  approached,  Mi*.  Edwards  intimated  to  him  that  if  he  was  de- 
sirous to  retire  before  the  service  (as  was  then  customary  with  most  serious 
ministers)  there  was  a  room  for  his  reception ;  but  Mr.  Newton  declined  this,  say- 
ing he  was  so  well  pleased  with  his  company,  that  he  was  unwilling  to  leave  it; 
ai^  added,  **  1  am  prepared."  At  the  appointed  time  the  service  commenced, 
and  after  prayer  Mr.  Newton  read  his  text,  which  was,  "  I  have  set  the  Lord 
always  before  me,  because  he  is  at  my  right  hand,  I  shall  not  be  moved,"  Hj 
began  fluently ;  but  in  a  few  minutes  he  lost  all  recollection  of  his  plan  ;  was 
confused,  stopped,  and  desired  Mr.  Edwards  to  come  up  and  finish  the  service. 
Mr.  Edwards  urged  him  to  proceed ;  but  Mr.  Newton  left  the  pulpit,  which 
Mr.  Edwards  ascended,  and  concluded  with  an  address  to  the  audience  on  the 
importance  of  the  Spirit*s  agency  to  help  our  infirmities.  Such  was  the  con- 
fusion occasioned  by  the  young  preacher's  failure,  that  for  some  time  after  be 
could  not  see  two  or  three  persons  standing  together  in  the  street  without  sus- 
pecting that  he  himself  must  be  the  subject  of  their  conversation.  From  this 
mortincation,  doubtless,  he  learned  the  important  lesson,  to  put  his  trust  not  in 
his  memory  or  preparation,  but  in  the  Lord  alone.  See  some  adminUiile 
Thoughts  on  the  snares  and  difficulties  attending  the  ministry  of  the  GospeL-. 
Omicron*8  Letters— Letter  V. 


273  THC  UFC  AXB  TIMES  OF 

other  a  clergyman  of  the  name  of  Heslup ;  and  after  they  be- 
came serious  characters  his  visits  to  the  north  were  more  fre- 
quent than  they  had  previously  been.  Speaking  of  his  family 
he  used  to  say,  "  Mr.  Whitefield  often  put  me  in  mind  how 
sinmilarly  favoured  I  was.  He  had  none  of  his  family  converted ; 
and  my  father  and  mother,  and  three  sisters,  were  like  those 
blessed  people — and  Jesus  loved  Martha  and  her  sister,  and 
Lazarus ;  and  as  they  loved  him  again,  so  do  we."  In  a  letter 
to  his  sister,  dated  the  year  after  his  father's  decease,  he  says : 
— **  In  a  little  time  I  hope  to  be  able  get  all  my  churches  provi- 
ded for,  and  then  I  shall  inform  vou  when  I  shall  set  out  for 
the  north.  I  have  had  sad  troubles  with  new  Vicar  of  St.  Dun- 
stan's.  He  will  let  none  preach  for  me  without  a  licence,  which 
puts  me  to  great  inconvenience ;  but  all  is  governed  by  One 
who  knows  what  is  best,  for  his  own  glory  and  his  people's 
good." 

On  the  occasion  of  each  of  these  visits  to  Yorkshire  Mr.  Ro- 
maine,  as  chaplain  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  was  received  by  Mr. 
Inffham  and  Lady  Margaret  with  every  mark  of  respect  and 
polite  attention.  Mr.  Romaine  was  nearly  of  the  same  age  and 
standing  as  Mr.  Ingham ;  but,  though  contemporaries  at  Ox- 
ford, they  had  been  by  no  means  companions;  tor,  while  there, 
he  had  studiously  avoided  all  connection  with  Mr.  Whitefield, 
Mr.  Ingham,  the  Wesleys,  Mr.  Hervey,  and  others,  the  great 
revivers  of  serious  and  heartfelt  religion,  who  then  began  to 
associate  together,  and  to  be  noted  for  a  variety  of  particular 
observances  and  devotional  exercises,  which  gained  them  the 
name  of  Methodists.  Engrossed  with  the  eager  pursuits  of  liter- 
ature, united  with  a  set  of  scholars  who  began  to  be  called 
Hutchinsonians,  and  having  imbibed  with  them  all  their  high- 
church  principles,  he  felt  no  relish  for  men  of  a  spirituality  of 
temper  which  he  had  not  yet  learned  to  cultivate,  and  from 
whose  reproach,  as  Methodists,  he  naturally  kept  aloof. 

During  the  vaciitions,  when  St.  Dunst'an's  was  shut  against 
him,  he  constantly  travelled  about  for  Lady  Huntingdon,  preach- 
ing everywhere  the   doctrine  of  the  kingdom.     Nowhere  was 
he  more  warmly  received  than  at  Aberford ;  we  cannot  refrain 
from  noting  the  cordial  remembrance  and  regard  he  bears  to  his 
"  Dear  Brother  Ingham,"  whose  chai)cls  he  constantly  attended, 
whose  friendshin  he  cultivated,  and  whose  ministrj-  he  so  highly 
esteemed.     Lauy  Margaret  was  a  woman   of  superior  attain- 
S  and  he  was  attached  to  her  in  the  best  of  bonds.     At  a 
when  his  poor  stipend  was  wholly  inadequate  to  provide 
anco  for  his  family,  his  necessities  were  often  liberally 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  273 

supplied  by  her  bounty.  Mr.  Ingham  sometimes  accompanied  him 
in  his  preaching  excursions  into  several  parts  of  the  county  of 
Durham;  Mr.  Romaine  preaching  wherever  he  obtained  a  church, 
and  Mr.  Ingham  in  the  Methodist  chapels  and  private  houses. 
During  these  visits  to  Yorkshire,  Mr.  Romaine  had  many  oppor- 
tunities of  conversing  with  Mr.  Batty  and  Mr.  Allen,  and  other 
preachers  amongst  the  Inghamites,  occasionally  preached  in 
some  of  the  chapels,  and  attended  several  of  their  meetings  for 
the  regulation  oi  the  order  and  discipline  of  the  churches.  That 
he  entertained  a  very  high  opinion  of  the  work  (iarried  on  by 
Mr.  Ingham  and  those  who  laboured  with  him,  is  evident  from 
the  following  circumstance :  The  late  respected  Mr.  Burder  was 
in  company  with  Mr.  Romaine,  about  the  year  1780,  at  the 
house  of  the  late  D.  Parker,  Esq.,  in  the  King's  Mews,  when  the 
conversation  turned  upon  the  congregations  and  societies  in 
Yorkshire  and  Lancashire  raised  by  the  labours  of  Mr.  Ingham 
and  his  faithful  associates;  and  among  the  scattered  remnants 
of  which  Mr.  Burder  occasionally  preached  while  he  resided  at 
Lancaster.  Mr.  Romaine  took  up  the  subject  with  warmth,  and, 
referring  to  that  period  in  which  the  Gospel  gloriously  prevailed 
in  Mr.  Ingham's  connexion  (this,  by  the  way,  was  also  the  period 
in  which  Mr.  Romaine  experiencea  such  hostility  in  London,)  he 
said  :  "  If  ever  there  was  a  Church  of  Christ  upon  earth,  that, 
was  one.  I  paid  them  a  visit,  and  had  a  great  mind  to  join 
them.  There  was  a  blessed  work  of  God  among  that  people, 
till  that  horrid  blast  from  the  north  came  upon  them  and 
destroyed  all !" 

In  September,  1760,  Lady  Huntingdon  and  Mr.  Romaine 
arrived  at  Aberford,  on  a  visit  to  Mr.  Ingham  and  Lady  Mar- 
garet, and  were  present  at  the  general  meeting  of  the  nnnisters 
and  members  of  the  societies,  held  at  Wheatley,  on  the  27th  of 
that  month,  when  the  choice  of  church  officers  was  determined 
by  lot* 

At  the  conclusion  of  this  meeting,  Mr.  Ingham,  Lady  Mar- 
garet, Lady  Huntingdon,  and  Mr.  Romaine  visited  several  of  the 
societies  in  Yorkshire  and  Lancashire,  Messrs.  Ingham  and 
Romaine  preaching  alternately  almost  every  day  in  some  of  the 
chapels.  At  Thinoaks,  where  they  remained  several  days,  there 
Wiis  a  large  assemblage  of  people,  and  two  elders  were  ordained. 
It  was  agreed  by  Mr.  Ingham  and  the  preachers  at  this  meeting 

*  Ic  was  customary  for  those  who  desired  to  be  admitted  into  Church  fellow« 
ship  to  declare  their  experience  publicly  ;  when  any  difference  of  opinion  took 
])hice  about  the  reception  of  any  member,  it  was  referred  to  the  lot;  and  all 
other  matters,  where  unanimity  could  not  be  obtained,  were  likewise  decided 
by  lot     Elders  were  ordained  by  the  holding  up  of  hands. 

VOL.  I. — T 


274  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OP 

to  recommend  to  the  diflferent  societies  in  the  connexion  to 
make  collections  every  Sabbath-day ;  and  the  following  circular 
notice  was  sent  to  all  the  churches  : — 

"  Dear  Brethren,— Being  mindful  of  the  words  of  the  AposUc  Paul, 
we  have  determined  to  recommend  to  our  societies  to  have  voluntary 
collections  on  the  first  day  of  the  week,  to  defray  all  expenses  relative 
to  the  preachers,  meetings,  &c.,  &c.,  &c.  "  Farewell  I" 

On  the  return  of  Mr.  Ingham  and  his  party  to.  Aberford  they 
were  joined  by  Mr.  Grimshaw,  Mr.  Romaine  engaged  to  preach 
at  Haworth,  and  there  was  a  very  numerous  assemblage.  The 
prayers  were  read  in  the  church  by  Mr,  Grimshaw,  who  then 
announced  to  the  congregation  that  '*  his  brother  Romaine  would 
preach  the  glorious  Gospel  from  brother  Whitefield's  pulpit  in 
the  church-yard."  Mr.  Komaine,  who  was  averse  to  open  air 
preaching,  complied  in  this  instance,  and  preached  most  power- 
fully. 

In  the  year  1759  Mr.  Ingham  first  read  a  part  of  "  Sande- 
man's  Letters  on  Theron  and  Aspasio,"  and  Glas's  "  Testimony 
of  the  King  of  Martyrs,"  and  at  his  request  Mr.  Batty  and 
Mr.  Allen  undertook  a  journey  into  Scotland  privately ,  for  the 
purpose  of  acquiring  more  distmct  information.  At  Edinburgh 
they  were  introduced  to  Mr.  Saiideman ;  at  Dundee  they  met 
Mr.  Glas,  and  returned  with  the  Sandemanian  principles  and 
practice,  when  several  warm  debates  took  place  amongst  the 
members  of  Mr.  Ingham's  societies  respecting  the  nature  of  a 
true  Church,  of  which  we  have  not  a  more  liberal  and  genuine 
definition  than  is  given  in  one  of  the  Thirty-nine  Articles  of  the 
Church  of  England.  The  Church  is  "  a  society  of  faithful 
people,  where  the  word  of  God  is  truly  preached,  and  the 
sacraments  duly  administered."  Let  bigots  dispute  about  modes 
and  forms.  If  we  belong  to  the  best  aggregate  society  originally, 
into  which  corruption  of  principle  and  practice  has  entered  so  as 
to  infect  the  teacher,  our  duty  is  to  quit  such  a  teacher  and  the 
society  which  maintains  communion  with  him,  and  to  seek  the 
fundamentals  of  a  true  Church  wherever  they  may  be  found,  and 
to  join  with  that  in  which,  according  to  the  best  of  our  knowledge, 
the  word  of  God  is  preached  in  the  greatest  purity,  and  adorned 
in  the  practice  of  the  bishop,  presbyter,  or  pastor,  with  his  con- 
gregation, in  the  greatest  spirituality. 

The  societies  in  connexion  with  Mr.  Ingham  might  be  con- 
sidered Baxterians  in  sentiment,  and  liberal  in  their  connexion 
with  all  good  men,  until  these  fiery  disciplinarians  taught 
them  to  believe  tlie  congregation  plan  unscriptural,  and  to  laugh 
at  their  former  views  of  experience.     Mr.  Allen  made  the  first 


SELINA)  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  27^ 

breach.  He  expressed  his  dissatisfaction  with  the  use  of  the 
lot,  obiected  to  the  choice  of  elders,  and  became  jealous  of  the 
authority  which  Mr.  Ingham  exercised  over  the  people.  But 
Mr.  Ingham  being  determined  to  proceed  with  the  validity  of 
his  commission  as  general  overseer,  and  the  authority  of  the 
lot,  wished  the  dissatisfied  to  withdraw.  Frequent  attempts  were 
made  towards  a  reconciliation  between  the  two  parties :  Lady 
Huntingdon  wrote,  Mr.  Romaine  visited  Yorkshire,  Mr.  White- 
field  prayed  and  wept — but  all  proved  ineffectual.  This  was  a 
severe  trial  to  Mr.  Ingham,  which  he  never  after  recovered. 
Disputes  without  end  arose,  excommunication  upon  excommu- 
nication followed,  they  condemned  one  another  for  hair-breadth 
differences,  and  were  thus  split,  like  a  wrecked  ship,  into  a 
thousand  pieces.  Out  of  upwards  of  eighty  flourishing  churches 
onlv  thirteen  remained ! 

He  who  walketh  in  the  midst  of  the  seven  golden  candlesticks 
has  seen  fit  to  withdraw  his  light  from  those  churches,  who 
were  contending  so  earnestly,  not  for  the  faith,  but  for  forms, 
and  ceremonies,  and  matters  non-essential.  The  true  Church,  is 
Catholicj  or  universal :  not  monopolized  by  any  one  body  of 
professing  Christians,  but  essentially  a  spiritual  Church ;  the 
Scriptures  everywhere  afford  abundant  proof  of  how  little  import- 
ance the  outward  forms  and  administrations  in  the  Church  are 
compared  with  holding  the  head,  Chrbt,  and  believing  the  glory 
of  his  person  and  sacrifice. 

The  claims  of  mutual  forbearance  are  infinitely  stronger  than 
the  pretensions  of  any  exclusive  Church  ;  the  outward  adminit" 
tration  of  Church  order  must  be  a  much  less  important  concern 
than  all  the  various  denominations  have  supposed,  and  the  in- 
ward blessings  enjoyed  in  the  conscience  constitute  the  essence, 
and  fill  the  volume  of  the  sacred  records.  Everv  believer  in 
Jesus,  who  is  a  partaker  of  the  grace  of  God  in  truth,  is  a  mem- 
ber of  the  true  Church,  to  whatever  particular  denomination  of 
Christians  he  may  belong :  and  popes,  bishops,  presbyters,  pas- 
tors, or  deacons,  without  this,  are  but  the  limbs  of  Anti- Christ, 
of  the  synagogue  of  Satan,  and  can  belong  to  no  Church  ac- 
knowledged by  the  Great  Shepherd  and  Bisnop  of  Souls. 


T  2 


276  THE   LIFE    AND   TIMES   OF 


CHAPTER  XVII. 

Mr.  Venn  removed  to  Huddersfield — Mr.  Burnett — Lord  Dartmouth — Dr. 
Conyers.— Visitation  Sermon — Mr.  Thornton — Lady  Huntingdon  visits  York- 
shire— Mr.  Romaine — Mr.  Wesley — Mr.  Madan — Letters  from  Dr.  Conyers 
to  Lady  Huntingdon — Letter  from  Mr.  Venn — Mr.  Titus  Knight — Letter 
from  Mr.  Grimshaw — Death  of  Mr.  Grimshaw — Letter  from   Mr.  Venn^ 

Letter  from  Dr.  Conyers— Letter  from  Mr.  Fletcher Lady   Huntingdon 

with  Messrs.  Townscnd  and  Fletcher,  visit  Huddersfield— Illness  of  Lady 
Huntingdon — Mr.  Whitefield   in   Yorkshire — William  Shent — Mr.   Venn's 

irregiilarities — Mrs.  Hannah  More Defence  of  Mr.  Venn Letter  from  Mr 

Fletcher — Mrs.  Deane — Lady  Irvine — Mr.   Occuro,  the  Indian    Preacher.. 
Captain  Scott.— The  London  Shunamite — Mr.  Wilson. 

In  1759,  Mr.  Venn  left  the  scene  of  his  laboui-s,  to  the  great . 
grief  of  his  pious  friend.  Dr.  Haweis,  and,  urged  by  the  neces- 
sities of  his  family,  accepted  from  Sir  John  Ramsden,  at  the 
solicitation  of  the  Earl  of  Dartmouth,  the  large  and  valuable 
living  of  Huddersfield.  He  found  his  parish  in  worse  than 
Egyptian  darkness ;  but  he  prophesied  over  the  dry  bones,  and 
a  wonderful  rising  followed.  He  was  the  means  of  introducing 
many  valuable  clergymen  into  his  parish  and  neighbourhood, 
among  whom  may  be  mentioned  the  late  Mr.  Burnett,*  Mr. 
Powly,  Mr.  Wilson,  and  Mr.  Ryland,  who  were  successively 
curates  in  his  parish,  though  most  of  them  afterwards  removed 
to  other  important  situations. 

Mr.  Venn  might  be  called  the  apostle  of  the  district.  On 
the  Sunday  he  would  often  address  the  congregation  from 
the  desk,  briefly  explaining  and  enforcing  the  Psalms  and  the 
Lessons.  He  would  frequently  begin  the  service  with  a  solemn 
and  most  impressive  address,  exhorting  them  to  consider  them- 
selves as  in  the  presence  of  the  Great  God  of  Heaven,  whose 
eye  was  in  a  particular  manner  upon  them,  whilst  they  drew 
nigh  to  Him  in  His  own  house.     His  whole  soul  was  engaged  in 

•  The  Rev.  G.  Burnett  was  early  impressed  with  a  deep  sense  of  divine 
things  by  Mr.  Walker,  of  Truro.  On  his  ordination  he  became  curate  to  the 
Rev.  Mr.  Rawlings,  of  Padstow,  whence  he  came  to  Yorkshire,  and  remained 
there  two  years.  He  then  resided  about  half  that  time  in  Kent,  and  by  the 
presentation  of  Dr.  Leigh  was  ultimately  seated  at  the  vicarage  of  Elland,  in 
Yorkshire.  In  this  parish  he  spent  his  large  fortune  in  works  of  charity,  and 
his  exertions  in  acts  of  grace,  until,  after  a  life  of  indefatigable  labour,  he  gave 
up  the  ghost,  in  the  59th  year  of  his  age,  July  8,  1 793. 


.   SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  277 

preaching;  and  as  at  this  time  he  only  used  short  notes  in  the 
pulpit,  ample  room  was  left  to  indulge  the  feelings  of  compas- 
sion, of  tenderness,  and  of  love  with  which  his  heart  overflowed 
towards  his  people.  In  the  week  he  statedly  visited  the  different 
hamlets  in  his  extensive  parish,  and  collecting  some  of  the  inha- 
bitants at  a  private  house,  he  addressed  them  with  a  kindness 
and  earnestness  that  moved  every  heart. 

Lord  Dartmouth,  writing  to  Mr.  Rawlings,  says : — 

"I  have  delightful  accounts  from  Huddcrsfield  of  the  wonderful 
manner  in  which  the  ministry  of  their  faithful  and  laborious  vicar  M 
blessed  to  that  people ;  and,  by  my  last  letters  from  thence,  have  the 
satisfaction  to  learn  that  his  health  was  never  better  than  at  present. 
Mr.  Venn  laments  exceedingly  the  loss  of  Mr.  Burnett,  whose  infirm 
state  has,  I  find,  at  last  obliged  him  to  seek  the  benefit  of  change  of 
air.  In  bis  last  letter  to  me  are  these  words  concerning  him — '  My 
faithful  helper  in  the  Lord*s  work,  after  many  repeated  efforts  to  con- 
tinue in  the  exercise  of  his  duty,  is  obliged  to  aesist ;  his  behaviour, 
under  these  afflicting  circumstances,  glorifies  his  Saviour,  and  recom- 
mends his  faith.  Invincible  patience  and  the  deepest  humiliation,  jus- 
tifjring  God  and  accepting  the  strokes  of  his  rod  as  a  punishment  for 
iniquity,  joined  to  stedfast  confidence  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  are  the 
abiding  tempers  of  bis  heart.  It  is  my  prayer  thai  he  may  be  restored 
to  help  me :  for  I  may  rcallv  say  of  Mr.  Burnett  as  Paul  of  Timothy, 
I  know  few  like-minded  who  preach  the  hatred  and  mortification  ot 
sin,  whilst  they  exalt  the  free  grace  and  righteousness  of  our  God  and 
Saviour,  who  teach  men  to  live  in  the  denial  of  every  evil  temper,  and 
in  the  exercise  of  every  heavenly  grace,  and,  at  the  same  time,  sensible 
of  their  vileness,  to  cry — God  be  merciful  to  me  a  sinner!" 

Mr.  Venn,  like  the  apostolic  Grimshaw,  was  eminently  dis- 
tinguished by  a  catholic  spirit  with  respect  to  other  denomina- 
tions of  professing  Christians.  When  lie  visited  Mr.  Ingham, 
he  could  not  witness  with  indifference  the  fatal  effects  of  that 
dreadful  division  which  had  marred  the  work  of  God,  and 
scattered  so  many  flourishing  churches  in  that  part  of  the  vine- 
yard. Great  numbers  of  young  persons  were  among  the  fruits 
of  his  ministry,  and  of  these  at  le.ist  thirteen  became  useful 
and  some  of  them  very  eminent  ministers,  chiefly  in  the  Inde- 
pendent connexion. 

About  the  same  period  that  Mr.  Venn  removed  to  Hudders- 
field,  the  late  Dr.  Conyers  commenced  his  evangelical  ministry 
at  Helmsley,  in  the  North  Riding  of  Yorkshire.  For  many 
years  before  his  eyes  were  open  to  see  the  truth  as  it  is  in  JesuF, 
he  was  a  most  amiable  and  exemplary  clergyman,  in  a  moral 
point  of  view.  Having  much  to  do  and  much  to  learn,  he 
entered  upon  the  weighty  duties  of  his  office  with  a  zeal,  though 
not  with  a  knowledge,  proportioned  to  its  magnitude.    Accord- 


S78  THX  HIT  AKD  TUOS  OF 

ingly  he  left  no  part  of  his  large  parish  neglected,  but  regularly 
visiteil  and  fan:iliarly  conversed  with  the  most  indigent  and  illi- 
terate, and  aiten:^»ted,  not  only  by  frequent  public  ministrations, 
cateohetical  exercises,  and  private  conferences,  but  also  by  per- 
sonal ex;imrle,  to  excite  to  a  jr^neral  propriety  of  conduct.'  He 
was  accustonieii  to  assemble  at  bis  own  house  companies  of 
younjx  wion  for  the  purpose  of  religious  improrement  and,  in 
conjunction  with  thenu  appointed  that  at  a  certain  hour,  at  the 
striking  of  the  church  cloctu  each  should  retire  to  his  habita- 
tion, and  be  present  in  spirit  together  before  God  in  the  exer- 
cise of  prayer. 

He  was  respected  and  commended  as  an  eminent  saint  and 
an  exemplarv  and  able  minister:  but«  alas  !  he  was  yet  unpos- 
sesseil  of  vital  sroviliness,  and  ignorant  of  the  true  nature  of^the 


oi  a  oociiiuui  wnier«  aiiu  aciuaiiy  wrvie  mm  a  leiier  oi  inanKS 
tor  his  prvxluctions«  but  was  prevented  from  sending  it  by  the 
following  circumstance.  On  reading  Luke  vi.  26,  ^'  Woe  unto 
\ou  when  all  men  shall  speak  well  of  you !  for  so  did  their 
fathers  to  the  £ilse  pn>phets«"  a  fla<h  of  conviction  darted  into 
his  soul.  He  was  nonoured  by  general  approbation ;  the  ran- 
corous fiiry  of  calumny  had  not  intemiptea  his  repose,  nor  had 
he  to  contend  with  the  virulence  of  persecuting  opposition.  He 
was,  therefore,  apparently,  includea  in  the  tremendous  denun- 
ciation. Yet  hoping,  bv  additional  punctuality  in  the  discharge 
of  his  duties,  to  calm  liis  mental  perturbation,  he  conducted 
himself  with  great  propriety,  fasted  more  frequently,  and  used 
sometimes  at  the  altar  in  the  church  to  sign  with  his  own  blood, 
in  a  most  solemn  manner,  his  resolutions  to  devote  the  remains 
of  his  life  to  the  senice  of  his  God,  and  to  render  himself 
acceptable  to  Heaven  by  peculiar  sanctitv. 

W  hile  reading  the  lesson  for  the  day  m  the  public  senice  at 
the  church,  the  expression  of  St.  Paur(Eph.  iii.  8) — "  The  un- 
searchable riches  of  Christ,"  made  a  deep  impression  upon  his 
mind.  On  this  scripture  he  was  involuntarily  led  to  reflect — "  The 
unsearchable  riches  of  Christ  /" — « I  never  found,  I  never  knew 
that  there  were  unsearchable  riches  in  IlimJ'^  Accustomed  to 
consider  the  Gospel  as  extremely  simple  and  intelligible,  he  was 
surprised  that  the  Apostle  should  assert  that  the  riches  of  Clirist 
were  unsearchable/immcdiAte\y  he  concluded  that  his  sentiments 
and  experience  must  be  entirely  dissimilar  to  those  of  the  Apostle. 
Deep  convictions  acconij)aniecl  these  reflections,  and  his  trouble 
was  not  a  little  increased  by  considering  that  if  he  himself  was 
wrong  in  the  fundamental  articles  of  religion,  he  must  also,  by 


SELINA9  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  279 

his  mode  of  preaching,  have  misguided  his  flock,  to  the  great 
prejudice  of  their  souls. 

At  length  the  sorrowful  sighing  of  the  prisoner  was  attended 
with  success,  and  on  the  25th  of  December,  1758,  while  walking 
in  his  room,  in  a  pensive  frame,  he  was  led  to  contemplate  those 
two  passages  of  Scripture,  Heb.  ix.  22 — "  Without  shedding  of 
blood  there  is  no  remission,"  and  John  i.  7 — "  The  blood  of  Jesus 
Christ  his  son  cleanseth  us  from  all  sin."  The  mists  of  ignorance 
were  instantaneously  dissipated,  and  finding  that  he  could  centre 
his  hopes  in  the  atoning  blood  and  righteousness  of  Jesus  Christy 
he  became  the  immediate  partaker  ofreal  and  ineffable  joy. 

'*  I  went  up  stairs  and  down  again  (said  he),  backwards  and  forwards 
in  my  room,  clapping  my  hands  for  joy,  and  crying  out,  /  have  found 
him— 'I  have  found  him — /  have  found  him,  whom  my  soul  loveAy 
and  for  a  little  time,  as  the  Apostle  said,  whether  in  the  body  or  out  of 
it  I  could  hardly  tell." 

The  first  time  that  his  friends  were  assembled  at  his  house 
he  embraced  the  opportunity  of  informingf  them,  with  truly  evan- 

Selical  simplicity,  that  they  had  been  by  him  unintentioually 
eceived.  He  related  his  rormer  distresses,  and  made  them  ac- 
quainted with  his  present  joyful  sensations,  and  concluded  by 
attempting  to  convmce  them  from  Scripture,  that  the  blood  of 
Christ  could  only  expiate  their  innumerable  transgressions  and 
produce  real  peace  of  mind,  and  that  his  righteousness  only  coulii 
entitle  them  to  the  enjoyment  of  eternal  life. 

At  the  parish  church,  before  a  numerous  auditory,  on  the 
ensuing  Sabbath  day,  he  began  to  preach  without  a  pre-composed 
sermon,  spoke  to  them  freely  of  the  way  of  salvation  by  the  Lord 
Jesus  alone,  acknowledged  that  his  principles  had  been  erro- 
neous, that  he  had  been  ignorant  of  the  holy  Scriptures,  and  that 
the  doctrine  which  he  had  inculcated  and  laboured  to  establish 
among  them  was  not  the  Gospel. 

He  now  found  that  all  men  did  not  speak  well  of  him,  and  he 
was  soon  called  upon  to  suffer  the  reproach  of  the  cross.  Many 
of  his  former  friends  began  to  treat  him  with  negligence  and 
contempt  But  none  of  these  things  moving  him,  he  determined 
by  Divme  assistance,  unremitingly  to  persevere.  Uncommon 
success  attended  his  after  labours.  As  the  number  of  converts 
considerably  increased,  he  divided  them  into  dbtiuct  classes, 
men  by  themselves  and  women  by  themselves,  and  then  intOx 
married  and  unmarried.  His  extensive  parish  containing  several 
small  villages,  and  being  divided  into  namlets,  these  select  so- 
cieties assembled  in  such  places  as  best  suited  their  convenience. 
At  appointed  times  he  met  them  for  the  purpose  of  spiritual 


280  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

conversation,  and  even^  day,  at  eleven  o'clock,  preached  in  some 

Eart  of  the  parish.  These  services  were  continued  by  him  or 
is  curates  from  the  time  of  his  removal  from  Helmsley. 
After  his  character,  as  a  man  of  evangelical  principles,  became 
generally  known,  he  was  called  to  preach  a  sermon  before  the 
clergy  at  a  visitation  of  his  diocesan,  the  Archbishop  of  York. 
This  became  the  topic  of  general  conversation  among  the  neigh- 
bouring clergy  and  trieir  parishioners,  who  declared  "  if  he  should 
dare  to  preach  his  Methodism  in  the  presence  of  his  Grace,  his 
gown  would  soon  be  stripped  over  his  ears." 

During  his  discourse,  the  beclouded  countenances  of  his 
clerical  hearers  indicated  that  the  iniporant  doctrine  which  he 
proved  and  enforced  was  extremely  offensive,  and  when  the  ser- 
vice was  concluded,  as  he  was  in  the  street  in  conversation  with 
several  farmers.  Dr.  Drummond,  Archbishop  of  York,  advanced 
and  accosted  him  as  follows : — '^Well,  Conyers,  you  have  given 
us  a  fine  sermon !" — "  I  am  glad  (said  the  Doctor)  it  meets 
the  approbation  of  your  Grace." — "  Approbation  !  approbation  ! 
(replied  the  Archbishop)  if  you  go  on  preaching  such  stuff  you 
will  drive  all  your  parish  mad.  Were  you  to  inculcate  the 
morality  of  Socrates,  it  would  do  more  good  than  canting  about 
the  new  birth."  His  Grace  immediately  walked  off  without 
waiting  for  a  reply.* 

5^  Witn  a  view  to  promote  the  cause  of  Christ,  which,  of  all 
other  causes,  lay  nearest  to  her  heart,  Lady  Huntingdon  made 
excursions  from  time  to  time,  not  only  into  the  towns  and  villages 
in  'the  neighbourhood  of  Brighton,  Tunbridge  Wells,  Bath,  and 
other  places,  where  she  occasionally  resided,  but  to  more  distant 
parts  of  the  kingdom.  From  the  first  moment  that  she  was 
enabled  to  give  herself,  her  time,  her  property,  and  her  talents 
wholly  to  the  Lord,  she  ever  preferred  the  path  of  duty  before 
the  lap  of  repose,  and  was  ready,  had  it  been  possible,  to  visit 
the  uttermost  parts  of  the  earth,  and  convey  with  her  the  bless- 
ing of  the  everlasting  Gospel;  counting  neither  ease  nor  interest, 
reputation,  nor  even  life  itself,  as  dear  to  her,  if  by  their  sacri- 
fice she  could  in  any  way  be  instrumental  in  bringing  before 
others  the  grace  of  which  she  had  been  made  the  happy 
recipient. 

Her  Ladyship's  journey  to  Yorkshire,  in  1760,  was  chiefly 

*  After  such  insults,  the  Doctor,  instead  of  spending  the  afternoon  with  his 
reverend  brethren,  dined  with  a  party  of  friends  at  another  inn.  His  brother- 
in-law,  the  well.knG\>Ti  Mr,  Thornton,  of  Clapham,  was  of  this  number,  who, 
while  sitting  by  him,  slipped  the  sermon  from  his  pocket,  and  printed  and  dis. 
persed  it  about  the  country.  This  was  the  only  production  of  the  Doctor's  that 
ever  appeared  from  the  press. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  281 

owing  to  the  confusion  which  was  then  prevailing  amongst  Mr. 
Ingham's  societies,  from  the  repeated  discussions  on  church 
government  and  discipline.  She  was  accompanied  by  Messrs. 
Romaine  and  Venn,  the  latter  of  whom  was  then  returning  to 
Huddersfield,  after  labouring  at  Brighton  for  some  weeks  with 
great  zeal  and  success.  Her  Ladyship  was  joined  by  Mr.  White- 
field  at  Aberford,  but  their  united  efforts  to  restore  peace  and 
prevent  confusion,  as  we  have  already  seen,  proved  ineffectual. 

The  succeeding  summer  Mr.  Wesley  was  in  Yorkshire,  and 
preached  at  Knaresborough,  Tadcaster,  and  several  places  in  the 
immediate  vicinity  of  Aberford.  There  had  been  much  con- 
versation about  the  doctrine  of  Perfection^  which  had  been 
introduced  into  Yorkshire  by  the  Wesleyan  preachers,  and  Mr. 
Wesley  laboured  hard  to  defend  and  explain  it  to  Messrs.  Grim- 
shaw  and  Venn.  His  sermon  at  Haworth  was  in  the  manner 
of  waiting  for  perfect  love^  and  when  he  visited  Huddersfield  he 
came  to  what  ne  calls  "  a  full  explanation  with  that  good  man, 
Mr.  Venn,"  and  he  adds,  "  Lord,  if  I  must  dispute,  let  it  be  with 
the  children  of  the  devil :  let  me  be  at  peace  with  thy  children." 
A  few  days  after  Mr.  Wesley  went  to  Kippax ;  Mr.  Venn  came 
a  little  time  after  they  were  gone  into  the  church ;  Mr.  Romaine 
read  prayers,  and  Mr.  Wesley  preached  on  Christ  crucified^  to 
the  Jews  a  stumbling-block^  and  to  the  Greeks  foolishness*  "  O 
why  (says  he)  should  they  who  agree  in  this  great  point  fall  out 
about  smaller  things  !" 

In  the  summer  of  1762  Lady  Huntingdon  paid  another  visit 
to  Yorkshire,  and  on  the  9th  of  August  she  attended  the  nine- 
teenth Conference  held  at  Leeds,  when  Messrs.  Romaine, 
Madan,  Venn,  Whitefield,  John  and  Charles  Wesley  were  also 
present.  After  which  Mr.  Whitefield  proceeded  to  Scotland, 
and  Lady  Huntingdon  to  Knaresborough,  where  she  remained 
some  time,  and  had  frequent  meetings  of  all  the  Gospel  clergy- 
men in  Yorkshire,  with  a  view  to  stimulate  them  to  more  active 
exertions  in  diffusing  the  light  of  divine  truth.  Dr.  Conyers, 
being  unable  to  wait  upon  her  Ladyship,  sent  the  following  letter 
to  Knaresborough : — 

^  Madam, — The  many  kind  messages  and  invitations  which  I  Iiavo 
received  from  your  Ladyship,  and  especially  by  the  Rev.  Roger  Bentley, 
who  had  the  honour  and  happiness  of  your  company  at  Knaresborough, 
have  filled  my  heart  with  tne  most  grateful  affections.  I  have  been 
long  in  hopes  that  it  would  please  God  to  open  a  way  for  me  to  wait 
upon  your  Ladyship,  but  it  seems  not  to  be  his  pleasure.  I  hope  I 
shall  meet  you  in  heaven  :  we  shall  ail  nothing  there — nothing  can  keep 
us  asunder  there — 0  thou  adorable  Lord  Jesus,  hasten  thy  kingdom— 
my  heart  just  pants  after  that  blessed  time  when  cdl  the  elect  of  Qod 


282  Tins   LIFE   AND  TIMES   OF 

shall  be  gathered  together^- when  I  shall  see  him  whom  my  seal  loves, 
eye  to  eye.  I  humbly  beg  your  Ladyship's  prayers  that  I  may  be 
strengthened  through  grace,  and  happily  triumphant  over  every  evil, 
may  gain  an  admission  into  my  heavenly  Father's  kingdom.  I  love  to 
pray  for  your  Ladyship,  I  feel  a  sweetness  upon  my  ^oul  when  I  do- 
it raises  in  me  earnest  desires  to  imitate  your  example,  that  I  may  be 
with  you  for  ever.  I  dare  hardl}'  take  the  freedom  to  beg  a  line  from 
your  Ladyship,  but  I  know  you  love  to  do  good,  and  that,  through 
God's  blessing,  would  do  good  to  me.  I  am  your  Ladyship's  most 
obedient  and  most  affectionate  servant  in  Christ  Jesus, 

"  Richard  Conyirs. 
Helmsley,  September  14th,  1762." 

From  Knaresborough  Lady  Huntingdon  removed  to  Harro- 
^te,  where  Mr.  Romaine  preached  several  times;  and  from 
tnence  to  Kippax  and  Aberiord,  where  she  remained  several 
weeks  actively  engaged  in  promoting  the  kingdom  of  her  Lord 
and  Master.  On  leaving  Y  orkshire,  her  Ladyship  proceeded  to 
Brighton ;  whilst  there  she  received  the  following  letter  from 
Mr.  Venn : — 

^' Huddcrsfield,  December  10th,  1762. 
"  Your  Ladyship's  letter  rejoiced  the  hearts  of  many  in  these  parts. 
Blessed  be  God  for  the  refreshment  and  vigour  which  your  visit  to  York- 
shire hath  diffused  in  my  own  dead  soul,  and  for  that  light  and  life  which 
our  dear  Immanuel  hath  made  you  the  honoured  instrument  of  con- 
veying to  the  hearts  of  so  many  of  your  fellow-sinners.  I  cannot  but  adore 
the  goodness  of  the  Lord  in  raising  up  such  a  monument  ofhis mercy,  and 
inflaming  you  with  such  a  fervent  zeal  for  his  blessed  name.  I  tnist 
the  Lord  will,  in  mercy,  spare  me  to  see  you  again  in  the  flesh ;  perhaps 
in  March  or  April  I  may  be  able  to  visit  you  and  give  you  some  little 
assistance ;  in  order  to  do  this,  may  the  Spirit  of  God  open  the  eyes  of 
my  understanding  more  and  more  to  see  my  need  of  a  Saviour,  and  to 
behold  the  suitableness,  the  freeness,  ana  fullness  of  the  redemption 
which  was  wrought  out  by  the  Lord  of  life  and  glory.  0  help  me 
with  your  prayers,  for  truly  I  need  them.  I  thank  you  ten  thousand 
times  for  all  your  repeated  marks  of  love  and  generosity  to  me  and  my 
family.  Continue  to  pray  for  me,  and  the  Lord  will  return  it  to  you 
sevenfold." 

After  some  allusion  to  his  preaching  with  Mr.  Ingham  at 
Aberford,  and  with  Dr.  Conyers,  at  Kippax  and  Huddersfield, 
he  says, — 

"  My  congregations  are  daily  increasing.  Besides  my  stated  labours 
on  the  Lord's- uay,  I  generally  preach  eight  or  ten  sermons  in  the  week 
in  the  distant  parts  of  the  pansh,  where  many  come  to  hear  who  will 
not  come  to  the  church.  I  find  my  out-door  preaching  much  owned 
of  the  Lord. 

"  My  wife  begs  her  kindest  regards  to  your  Ladyship.  That  the  Father 
of  lights  may  pour  the  choicest  of  his  blessings  on  your  soul,  and  fill 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  283 

you  with  his  love,  in  the  repeated  wish  of  your  Ladyship's  unworthy 
friend  and  servant  in  Christ,  *«  H.  Venn* 

Whilst  Lady  Huntingdon  was  at  Aberford,  she  enjoyed  fre- 
quent opportunities  of  seeing  and  conversing  with  the  late  Rev. 
Titus  Knight,  who  was  a  constant  visiter  at  Mr.  Ingham's.    His 
first  labours,  it  is  well  known,  were  among  the  Methodists  in  Mr. 
Wesley's  societies;  and  having  opportunities  of  preaching  in 
various  parts  of  the  country,  he  became  signally  and  extensively 
useful.     From  repeated  interviews  and  conversations  with  Lady 
Huntingdon  and  Mr.  Ingham,  it  pleased  God  to  give  him  such 
consistent  views  of  divine  truth  that  he  could  no  longer  publicly 
insist  upon  certain  points  of  doctrine  maintained  in  Mr.  Wesley  s 
connexion.     Christian  perfection  was  much  insisted  upon  at 
this  time  by  Mr.  Wesley,  and  Lady  Huntingdon  felt  nerself 
bound  to  combat  this  error,  which  Mr.  Knight  had  adopted,  with 
those  clear  views  of  revealed  truth  which  she  had  embraced,  and 
which  she  explained  in  a  manner  so  easy  and  forcible  to  the 
minds  of  others,  that  many  acknowledged  themselves  indebted  to 
her  Ladyship's  instrumentality  for  a  deeper  insight  into  the  great 
doctrines  of  the  Gospel.     Lady  Huntingdon  offered  to  use  her 
interest  in  procuring  him  episcopal  ordination,  as  he  had  at^ 
tained  a  considerable  knowledge  of  the  Hebrew,  Greek,  and 
Latin  languages,  and  a  copious  acQuaintance  with  classical  his- 
tory.    This  offer,  after  some  consideration,  he  declined.     A  few 
faithful  friends,  to  whom  he  had  been  useful,  still  adhered  to 
him :  and  to  them  he  continued  to  preach  as  opportunity  per^ 
mitted.     These  being  soon  increased  by  the  addition  of  others, 
a  scheme  was  suggested  for  erecting  a  house  in  which  they  might 
more  regularly  assemble  together,  but  the  parties  had  no  re- 
sources, and  Mr.  Grimshaw  undertook  to  beg  for  it.     He  was 
no  bigot ;  he  made  no  distinction  of  sect  or  party  the  measure  of 
his  love  towards  Christians.     He  used  to  say,  "  I  love  Chris- 
tians, true  Christians,  of  all  parties ;  I  do  love  them,  I  will  love 
them,  and  none  shall  make  me  do  otherwise."     His  first  appli- 
cation was  to  Lady  Huntingdon  : — 

^'  Madam, — Your  last  letter  has  remained  a  Ions  time  unanswered ; 
hut  I  know  you  will  excuse  what  may  appear  neglect,  when  informed 
that  I  have  been  about  my  Master's  business.  Indeed,  I  have  the 
pleasure  of  assuring  you  that  the  Lord's  work  prospers  amazingly 
among  us.  My  exhortations  are  visibly  blessed,  and  I  bless  God  daily 
and  hourly  for  it.  The  societies  are  everywhere  in  a  good  state.  The 
Lord  is  adding  to  them  many  seekers  of  the  blessed  Jesus — many  lively 
souls  who  have  come  to  a  sense  of  the  pardoning  love  of  God,  and  are 
eagerly  hungering  and  thirsting  after  your  inestimable  Rxdsbmkb  and 
mine. 


984  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

"  I  have  had  two  visits  from  Mr.  Knight.     He  professed  great  love 
and  respect  for  your  Ladyship,  and  acknowledges  his  deep  ohligations 
for  the  light  and  knowlo<lge  you  were  instrumental  in  communicating" 
to  him.     He  is  actively  labouring  to  rescue  sin-slaved  souls  from  the 
kingdom  of  darkness,  and  the  Lord  has  put  honour  in  his  testimony,  by 
giving  him  seals  to  his  ministry.     The  people  amongst  whom  he  is 
sowing  the  seed  of  the  kingdom  are  poor,  their  means  are  very  limited, 
jet  the  Lord  has  put  it  into  tlieir  hearts  to  build  a  house  for  the  preach- 
ing of  his  word.     Now  I  have  come  to  the  point — can  your  Ladyship 
spare  a  mite  to  aid  these  worthy  souls  ?     The  demands  on  your  gene- 
rosity I  know  to  be  great,  and  on  that  account  I  feel  a  repugnance  at 
asking,  because  I  am  persuaded  you  would  give,  even  to  the  gown  on 
your  back,  if  the  case  required  it.     Blessed  be  God,  who  has  furnished 
you  with  means,  and  with  a  heart  inclined  to  dispense  the  unrighteous 
mammon  for  the  good  of  others.  But  you  are  the  Lord's,  all  you  have  is 
is  his,  and  bless  and  praise  him  night  and  day  for  employing  you  in  his 
service.     May  He  bless  you,  sanctify  you,  and  make  you  abundantly 
useful  in  your  day  and  generation  !     He  has  raised  you  up  for  the  ac- 
complishment of  a  mighty  work  in  the  land  ;  I  may  not  live  to  witness 
it,  but  I  shall  assuredly  see  some  of  the  triumphs  of  the  cross,  the  blood- 
bought  slaves,  the  ransomed  captives,  rescued  from  the  tyranny  and 
slavery  of  the  great  enemy  of  soids,  in  the  chapels  of  your  Ladyship,  all 
arrayed  in  robes  of  dazzling  white,  and  washed  from  every  defilement 
in  tne  fountain  open  for  sin  and  uncleanness,  praising  and   blessing 
Him  who  hath  made  them  kings  and  priests  unto  God  and  the  Lamb 
for  ever.     Yes,  when  I  am  before  the  throne — then  I  shall  see,  and 
hear,  and  know  what  you  have  been  made  the  instrument  of  accom- 
plishing upon  eartli :  and  at  last  we  shall  meet  as  trco  poor  toort/iless 
sinnerSy  stripped  of  every  fancied  good,  to  bless  and  praise  him  through 
eternity  I 

"  I  hope  ere  long  to  see  my  dear  brother  Whitefield  in  his  o\vu  pul- 
pitagain.  When  will  your  Ladyship  revive  us  with  another  visit  ?  What 
blessings  did  the  Lord  shower  upon  us  the  last  time  you  were  here ! 
and  how  did  our  hearts  bum  within  us  to  proclaim  his  love  and  grace 
to  perishing  sinners  !  Come  and  animate  us  afresh — aid  us  by  your 
counsels  and  your  prayers — communicate  a  spark  of  your  glowing  zeal, 
and  stir  us  up  to  renewed  activity  in  the  cause  of  God.  All  the  dear 
Apostles  go  on  well — all  pray  for  your  dear  Ladyship,  and  all  long  for 
your  coming  amongst  us  again.  I  have  been  a  long  round  since  you 
were  here,  and  have  seen  brothers  Ingham,  Venn,  Conyers,  and  Bent- 
ley,  all  alive,  and  preaching  Christ  crucified  with  wonderful  success, 
and  inexpressible  benefit  to  the  souls  of  many. 

^  Excuse  this  long,  incoherent  scribble,  and  assure  yourself  I  am 
your  Ladyship's  very  unworthy  and  unprofitable  friend  and  brotlier, 

"  William  Grimsuaw." 

"Haworth,  November  20,  1762.'* 

To  this  appeal  Lady  Huntingdon  responded  with  her  accus- 
tonied  libersuity ;  and  in  a  little  time  such  liberal  contributions 
^re  obtained  as  enabled  Mr.  Knight  and  his  friends  to  accom- 


SELINA)   COUNTESS   OF   HUNTINGDON.  285 

plish  their  design.  A  house  was  erected,  a  church  formed,  and 
ne  was  ordained  pastor  in  the  summer  of  1763.  Soon  after 
his  acquaintance  with  Mr.  Whitefield  commenced,  which,  under 
God,  was  the  means  of  extending  his  usefulness  very  consider^ 
ably ;  for  being  invited  by  Mr.  Whitefield  to  his  pulpit,  and 
his  preaching  l)eing  approved,  he  afterwards  became  one  of  tho 
assistant  preachers,  and  spent  two  months  every  year  in  preaching 
at  the  Tabernacle,  Tottenham -Court  Chapel,  Greenwich,  Wool- 
wich, and  other  places  in  the  same  connexion.* 

In  the  spring  of  1763,  Lady  Huntingdon  had  the  misfortune 
to  lose  her  very  valuable  and  faithful  friend,  the  laborious  and 
truly  apostolic  Grimshaw.     Haworth,  in  the  early  part  of  the 
year,  was  aflflicted  with  a  putrid  fever,  of  which  many  persons 
died.     Mr.  Grimshaw  had  a  strong  presage  upon  his  mind  that 
some  one  of  his  own  family  would  be  added  to  the  number,  and 
he  repeatedly  exhorted  tnem  all  to  be  ready,  as  he  knew  not 
which  it  might  be.     As  for  himself,  it  was  not  for  a  man  of  hi» 
views  and  spirit  to  decline  the  calls  of  duty  and  affection  through 
apprehension  of  danger.     The  fever  was  highly  infectious,  and, 
in  visiting  the  sick  parishioners  he  soon  caught  it.      From  the 
first  attack  of   the  disease  he  expected  ana  welcomed  the  ap- 
proach of  death.     He  knew  in  whom  he  believed,  and  felt  his 
support  in  the  trying  hour.     While  death  pointed  his  javelin  to 
his  heart,   he  beheld  the  face  of  the  King  of  Terrors  as  if  it 
were  the  face  of  an  angel.     He  said,  "  Never  had  I  such  a  visit 
from  God,  since  I  knew  him." 

Mr.  Ingham,  in  a  letter  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  gives  the  fol- 
lowing account  of  his  interviews  with  Mr.  Grims^av. : — 

'^  From  the  moment  he  was  seized  with  the  fever,  he  felt  the  sentence 
of  death  in  himself.  When  I  first  saw  him  he  said^  ^My  last  enemy  is 
come  !  the  signs  of  death  are  upon  me,  but  I  am  not  afraid — no  !  no  I 
blessed  he  God,  my  hope  is  sure,  and  I  am  in  his  hands.'  When  I  was 
pouring  out  my  soul  in  prayer  to  the  Lord,  I  mentioned  the  further  pro- 
longation of  his  life,  that  he  might  have  more  opportunities  of  being 
useful ;  and  when  I  had  concluded  he  said,  'My  dear  brother  Ingham, 
if  tlie  Lord  should  raise  me  up,  I  think  I  could  do  more  for  his  glory 

*  Mr.  Knight's  ministry  was  blessed  ;  his  congregation  continually  increasiiig, 
it  soon  became  necessary  to  erect  a  gallery  as  large  as  the  building  would  admit, 
then  a  larger  and  more  commodious  house  became  rather  desirable  than  at- 
tainable. At  length,  however,  it  was  cordially  set  about,  and  a  very  spaciouB  and 
elegant  structure  completed,  which  was  opened  in  Ma3r,  1772.  Here  be  exer- 
cised bis  public  ministrations  to  very  large  congregations,  till  it  pleased  the 
Lord  to  incapacitate  him  for  public  service ;  and,  to  use  his  own  expression, 
to  reduce  him  from  a  toorking  to  a  waiting  servant  Mr.  Knight  was  released 
from  the  burden  of  the  flesh,  and  removed  to  a  better  and  indissoluble  mansion, 
March  2,  )  793.  In  1 766  he  published  a  volume  of  sermons,  an  elegy  on  Mr. 
Whitefield's  death,  and  a  few  single  sermons  and  pamphlets. 


286  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OP 

than  I  have  hitherto  done.  Alas  !  what  have  my  wretched  services  heen? 
and  I  have  now  need  to  cry,  at  the  close  of  my  unprofitahle  course — God 
be  mercififl  to  me  a  sinner  /'  On  my  next  visit  I  found  him  much 
worse,  and  evidently  sinking.  I  mentioned  having  received  a  letter  from 
your  Ladyship,  and  delivered  your  message.  He  seemed  much  affected^ 
but  after  a  few  moments  revived  a  little.  When  I  had  prayed  with  him, 
he  said,  *  I  harbour  no  desire  of  life,  my  time  is  come,  and  I  am  entirely 
resigned  to  God.'  Then  lifting  up  his  hands  and  eyes  to  heaven, 
added  '  Thy  will  be  done  !  Tell  her  Ladyship,  that  dear  elect  woman, 
that  I  thank  her  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  for  all  her  kindnesses  to 
me  during  the  years  that  I  have  known  her.  With  my  dying  breath  I 
implore  every  blessing  temporal  and  spiritual  to  rest  upon  her.  May 
the  God  of  Abraham,  of  Isaac,  and  of  Jacob,  bless  her — ^bless  her  in 
body,  soul  and  spirit.  I  can  never  repay  the  spiritual  good  I  have 
reaped  at  her  hands.  0  that  she  may  be  eminently  useful  in  her  day 
ana  generation !'  At  another  time  he  said,  laying  his  hand  upon  his 
breast,  *  I  am  quite  exhausted,  but  I  shall  soon  be  at  home  for  ever 
with  the  Lord— ?a  poor  miserable  sinner  redeemed  by  His  blood.'  Mr. 
Venn  having  arrived,  I  shortly  after  took  my  leave,  but  never  after  saw 
my  dear  brother  Grimshaw  alive."* 

He  died  on  7th  of  April,  1763,  in  the  fifty-fifth  year  of  his 
age,  and  in  the  twenty-first  from  his  settlement  at  Haworth,  the 
scene  of  his  eminent  usefulness  in  the  Church  of  God.f 

Mr.  Grimshaw  was  twice  married,  and  suiTived  his  second 
wife ;  by  the  former  he  had  a  daughter  who  died  young,  and  a 
son  who  survived  him  about  two  years :  he  married  a  worthy 
woman,  but  drinking  was  his  besetment.  He  often  addressed 
the  horse  his  venerable  father  rode  with  these  words — "  Once 

*  A  dear  old  friend  of  his,  Mr.  Jeremiah  Robcrtshaw,  called  to  see  him. 
When  they  parted,  Mr.  Grimshaw  took  hold  of  his  hand  and  said,  **  The  Lord 
bless  you,  Jerry  ;  I  will  pray  for  you  as  long  as  I  live  ;  and  if  there  be  such  a 
thing  as  praying  in  heaven,  I  will  pray  for  you  there  also."  His  last  words 
were,  "  Here  goes  an  unprofitable  servant!"  Mr.  Kobertshaw  was  one  of 
the  first  race  of  Methodist  preachers  r  he  travelled  twenty-six  years  with  an 
unblameable  character:  and  died  at  Bradford,  in  February,  1788. 

f  At  his  own  desire,  his  remains  were  brought  to  Ewood,  the  farm-house,  in 
the  parijih  of  Halifax,  where  his  son  resided,  and  from  thence  they  were  fol- 
lowed to  Luddenden  chapel,  near  Halifax,  by  great  numbers,  who  with  inter- 
mingled sighs  and  tears  sang,  at  his  dying  request,  all  the  way  from  the  houKe  to 
the  chapel.  They  lie  near  the  communion  table,  without  any  monumental  re- 
cord, except  his  name,  &c.,  on  the  stone  which  covers  his  grave.  Mr.  Venn 
preached  his  funeral  sermon,  in  the  chu>ch-yard  at  Luddenden,  the  church 
Itself  not  being  sufficiently  large  to  hold  the  congregation  ;  and  the  next  day 
(being  Sunday)  at  Haworth,  to  a  numerous  and  deeply-affected  assembly,  many 
of  whom  came  from  a  great  distance  to  testify  their  respect  and  veneration  for 
their  departed  minister.  This  sermon  was  afterwards  published,  and  contains 
the  earhest  and  most  authentic  account  of  him.  Mr.  Romaine  also  preached  a 
sennon  on  the  occasion  of  his  death,  ten  days  after  his  decease,  at  St. 
Dunstan'sin  the  West,  London,  from  Pliil.  i.  21 — "For  me  to  live  is  Christ,  and 
to  die  is  gain.  *^  Both  Mr.  Venn  and  Mr.  Romaine  fixed  upon  a  text  which  had 
been  peculiarly  precious  to  him,  and  of  which  his  life  had  been  a  bright  illus- 
tration. 


SELINA,  COUKTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  287 

thou  carriedst  a  saint ;  now  thou  earnest  a  devil."     The  many 

I)rayers  offered  up  for  him  were  not  in  vain.  The  Lord  gave 
lim  repentance,  and  just  before  he  died,  he  exclaimed — "  JVhat 
will  mi/  father  sat/,  when  he  sees  me  in  heaven  ?"  The  widow 
of  Mr.  Grimshaw*s  son  afterwards  became  the  wife  of  the  late 
Rev.  John  Cross,  vicar  of  Bradford.  The  successors  of  Mr. 
Grimshaw,  the  late  Rev.  John  Richardson  and  the  Rev.  John 
James  Charnock,  trod  in  his  steps,  to  the  great  good  of  Haworth. 
The  blessed  effects  resulting  from  Lady  Huntingdon's  former 
visits  to  Yorkshire  induced  many  of  the  ministers  of  Christ  iri 
that  part  of  the  kingdom  to  solicit  her  to  honour  them  with  her 

Sresence  from  time  to  time ;  and  as  soon  as  her  Ladyship  had 
etermined  on  taking  a  journey  into  Yorkshire,  she  wrote  to 
several  ministers,  explaining  the  object  she  had  in  view,  and  soli- 
citing the  aid  of  such  as  could  with  convenience  accompany  her 
thither.  Mr.  Townsend  and  Mr.  Fletcher,  it  appears,  were  early 
engaged  for  this  labour  of  love.  As  early  as  the  month  of 
February  we  find  the  latter  writing  thus  to  Mr.  Ireland : — 

"  If  I  can  leave  my  parish  I  believe  it  will  be  to  accompany  Lady 
Huntingdon  to  the  Goshen  of  our  land,  Yorkshire,  to  learn  the  love  of 
Christ  at  the  feet  of  my  brethren  and  fathers  there." 

Ladv  Anne  Erskine,  who  was  then  residing  with  her  father, 
Lord  Buchan,  at  Bath,  consented  to  accompany  Lady  Hunting- 
don in  her  tour  into  Yorkshire,  and  her  Ladyship  was  earnestly 
entreated  to  gratify  the  anxious  wishes  of  the  people  of  God  in 
Scotland.  Lady  Huntingdon  readily  yielded  to  the  desires  of  the 
people  of  Edinburgh,  ana  as  soon  as  she  had  resolved  on  visiting 
Scotland,  wrote  to  ^Ir.  Venn  and  Mr.  Townsend,  inviting  them 
to  accompany  her  thither.  A  few  days  before  she  set  out  on 
her  tour  slie  received  the  following  reply  from  Mr.  Venn : — 

'*  Your  Ladyship's  letter  has  rejoiced  our  hearts,  and  many  more. 
Your  coming  into  Yorkshire,  attended  by  two  such  faithful  labourers, 
will,  I  douht  not,  be  blessed  exceedingly  to  the  souls  of  the  people,  as 
your  parlour  preaching  will   be  to  our  own  souls.     If  I  can  I  shall  do 
myself  the  pleasure  of  meeting  you  at  Bretby  ;  if  not,  on  the  9th  of 
next  month  we  shall  receive  you  and  your  blessed  company  with  that 
exalted  joy  which  the  Holy  Ghost  inspires.     I  must  take  the  liberty 
of  begging  your  ladyship  will  present  our  most  respectful  compliments 
to  Lady  Anno  and  Miss  Orton,  and  express  our  sense  of  the  favour 
they  will  confer  on  us  on  coming  to  my  vicarage.     We  were  in  hopes 
you  could  have  contrived  to  have  spent  a  Sabbath  with  us,  rather  than 
at   Kippax.     Three   thousand   hearers   would  be  present  to  receive 
the  word  of  life  here,  whereas  at  the  village  there  would  be  very 
few.    Love   to  my  flock  and  desire  for'  theu*  good  prompts  me    to 
mention  this. 


288  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

^'  To  make  one  of  your  tour  to  Scotland  would  delight  me  much 
indeed,  but  my  complaint  in  my  breast  is  returned,  and  I  am  not  able 
to  lift  up  my  voice.  On  Easter  Tuesday  I  perceived  the  hurt  very 
sensibly.  I  i^as  pleading  for  the  Lord's  honour  and  glory  as  the  only 
Saviour,  and  how  could  I  help  speaking  on  such  a  truth  with  all 
energy  ?  But  the  body  will  not  bear  it.  However,  I  had  yesterday  a 
poor  profligate  came  to  me  to  tell  me  that  under  that  sermon,  she,  who 
doubted  before  the  very  being  of  a  God,  was  pricked  to  the  heart,  and 
is  now  indeed  crying  out  night  and  day — '  What  shall  I  do  to  be  saved  ?* 
Preaching  Christ  was  never  so  greatly  delightful  to  me  as  it  is  now ; 
and  yet  that  highest  pleasure  I  am  now  incapable  of  enjoying  more 
than  once  a  week. 

"  Praying  heartily  that  your  going  in  and  out  from  place  to  place 
may  be  under  the  powerful  influence,  and  rich  blessings  of  the  great 
Leader  and  Commander  of  the  people,  that  as  one  of  his  chosen 
troops  you  may  do  valiantly,  putting  to  flight  the  army  of  the  aliens,  1 
conclude  myself  your  Ladyship's  servant  in  the  Gospel,  and  friend, 

*'  H.  Venn." 

Dr.  Conyers  also,  to  whom  her  Ladyship  had  announced  her 
intention  of  visiting  Yorkshire,  felt  highly  gratified  at  tiie  pros- 
pect of  seeing  her,  and  wrote  very  much  to  the  purport  of  the 
above,  under  date  of  Helmsley,  April  21,  1767. 

Early  in  the  month  of  May,  Lady  Huntingdon,  Lady  Anne 
Erskine,  Miss  Orton,  and  Mr.  Howel  Harris  left  Bath,  accom- 
panied by  Mr.  Whitefield,  on  a  preaching  excursion  through  a 
part  of  Gloucestershire. 

'^  We  have  had  good  seasons  at  Rodborough  (says  he) ;  I  was 
regaled  with  the  company  of  some  simple-hearted,  first-rate  old  Me- 
thodists, of  nearly  thirty  years*  standing.  God  willing,  I  am  to  preach 
to-morrow  morning,  and  to  have  a  general  sacrament  on  Friday  even- 
ing. I  have  been  out  twice  in  the  fields.  On  Sunday  I  hope  to  take 
to  Rodborough  Wood  again.  Good  Lady  Huntingdon,  &c.,  were  won- 
derfully delighted.  She  and  her  company  lay  at  Rodborough-house. 
They  honoured  dear  Mr.  Adams  uith  their  presence :  he  is  but  poorly, 
and  wants  a  nurse  ;  perhaps  before  next  Sunday  he  may  be  married  to 
a  simple-hearted,  plain,  good  creature  that  hath  waited  upon  him  and 
the  preachers  near  twenty  years.  She  hath  no  fortune,  but  is  one  who, 
I  thmk,  will  take  care  of  and  be  obedient  to  him,  for  Chi-ist's  sake." 

From  Rodborough  they  proceeded  to  Gloucester — "  Where 
(says  Mr.  W.)  we  had  a  most  blessed  season  yesterday.  Thou- 
sands and  thousands,  I  trust,  heard,  saw,  and  felt." 

Mr.  Whitefield  going  into  Wales,  Lady  Huntingdon  and  her 

f)arty  proceeded  to  Hawkestone,  the  celebrated  seat  of  Sir  Row- 
and  Hill,  Bart,  and  from  thence  to  Trevecca,  where  they  were 
joined  by  Mr.  Fletcher,  who  conducted  them  to  Madely,  where 
they  spent  a  few  days,  on  their  way  to  Derbyshire.     The  ac- 


SEHNA,  COL'NTESSF  HUNTINGDON.  389 

count  of  her  Ladyship's  progress  is  contained  in  a  letter  from  Mr. 
Fletcher  to  Mr.  Whitefield,  dated  Madelv,  Mav,  18,  1767:— 

"  Reverend  and  dear  Sir, — Your  mentioning  my  poor  ministrations 
among  your  congregation  opens  again  a  wound  of  shame  that  was  but 
lialf  liealed.  I  feel  the  need  of  asking  God,  yoii,  and  your  hearers, 
l)ardon,  for  weakening  the  glorious  matter  of  the  gospel  by  my 
WTetched  broken  manner,  and  spoiHng  tlie  heavenly  power  of  it  by 
the  uncleanness  of  my  heart  and  lips.  I  should  be  glad  to  go  and  be 
your  curate  some  time  this  year ;  but  I  see  no  opening,  nor  the  least 
prospect  of  any.  What  betw^een  the  dead  and  the  living,  a  parish 
ties  one  down  more  than  a  wife.  If  I  could  go  anywhere  this  year 
it  should  be  to  Yorkshire,  to  accompany  Lady  Huntingdon,  according 
to  a  design  that  I  had  half  formed  last  year ;  but  I  fear  that  I  shall  be 
debarred  even  from  this.  I  set  out,  God  willing,  to-morrow  morning 
for  Trevecca,  to  meet  her  Ladyship  there,  and  to  show  her  the  way 
to  Madely,  where  she  proposes  to  stay  three  or  four  days  in  her  wav 
to  Derbyshire.  Wliat  chaplain  she  will  have  there  I  know  not :  God 
will  provide.  I  rejoice  that,  though  you  are  sure  of  heaven,  you  have 
still  a  desire  to  inherit  the  «arth,  by  being  a  peace-maker.  Some  how, 
you  will  enjoy  the  blessings  that  others  may  possibly  refuse. 

"  Last  Sunday  seven-night  Captain  Scott  preached  to  my  congregation 
in  a  sermon  which  was  more  blessed,  though  preached  only  upon  my 
horse-block,  than  a  hundred  of  those  I  preach  in  the  pulpit.  I  invited 
him  to  come  and  treat  her  Ladyship  next  Sunday  with  another,  now 
the  place  is  consecrated.  If  you  should  ever  favour  Shropshire  with 
your  presence,  you  shall  have  the  captain's  or  the  parson's  pulpit  at 
your  option.  Many  ask  me  whether  you  will  not  come  to  have  some 
fruit  here  also :  what  must  I  answer  them  ?  I,  and  many  more,  com- 
plain of  a  stagnation  in  the  work  :  what  must  we  do  ?  Everything 
buds  and  blossoms  around  us,  yet  our  winter  is  not  over.  I  thought 
Mr.  Newton,  who  hath  been  three  weeks  in  Shropshire,  would  have 
brought  the  turtle-dove  along  with  him :  but  I  could  not  prevail  upon 
to  come  to  this  poor  Capernaum.  I  think  I  hardly  ever  met  his 
fellow  for  a  judicious  spirit.  Still,  what  hath  God  done  in  him  and 
in  me  ?  I  am  out  of  hell,  and  mine  eyes  have  seen  something  of  his 
salvation ;  though  I  must  and  do  gladly  yield  to  him  and  all  my 
brethren,  yet  I  must  and  will  contend,  that  my  being  in  the  way 
to  heaven  makes  me  as  rich  a  monument  of  mercy  as  he,  or  any  of 
them.  0,  that  I  may  feel  the  wonderful  effect  of  the  patience  that 
is  manifested  towards  me  !  Lord,  break  me,  and  make  me  a  vessel 
capable  of  bearing  thy  name,  and  the  sweet  savour  of  it,  to  my  fellow- 
sinners  !***♦**• 

"  I  am,  reverend  and  dear  Sir,  with,  blessed  be  God,  a  measure  of 
sincere  affection  and  respect,  your  willing,  though  halting  and  unwor- 
thy servant,  "  J.  Fletcher.'* 

Lady  Huntingdon  and  her  interesting  companions  continued 
a  few  days  at  Madely,  where  they  enjoyed  the  pleasure 
of   Captain   Scott's  company,   who,  at  Mr.  Fletcher's  urgent 

VOL.  I — u 


290  TH£  LIFE  AND  TIMES  Ol^ 

request,  preached  to  very  large  congregations  upon  his  horse- 
block twice  on  the  Lord*s-d:iy,  and  on  Monday  in  Madely- 
wood,  to  an  immense  concourse  of  people,  many  of  whom  were 
drawn  thither  from  motives  of  curiosity  to  see  her  Ladyship  and 
the  preaching  Captain.  From  Madely  her  Ladyship  pro- 
ceeded to  Bretby,  where  she  remained  until  joined  by  Mr. 
Venn  and  Mr.  Townsend,  both  of  whom  preached  in  her  Lad}^ 
ship's  chapel  there,  which  was  at  that  time  supplied  by  mr, 
Jesse  and  Mr.  Maxfield.  As  there  were  now  five  clergjmen 
with  Lady  Huntingdon,  there  was  preaching  twice  a  day  whilst 
she  remamed,  and  many  on  these  occasions  were  called^  to  the 
happy  experience  of  the  salvation  of  Jesus  by  their  labours  in 
that  place.  On  the  9th  of  June  her  Ladyship,  attended  by 
Messrs.  Venn,  Townsend,  and  Fletcher,  arrived  at  Hudders- 
field,  where  they  were  kindly  and  hospitably  received  by  Mrs. 
Venn,  at  the  Vicarage-house.  Lady  Huntingdon  did  not  pro- 
ceed to  Kippax  immediately,  according  to  her  previous  engage- 
ment, but  complied  with  the  earnest  wishes  of  Mr.  Venn  by 
•  remaining  at  Huddersfield  the  following  Sabbath,  when  Mr. 
Fletcher  preached  twice  to  very  large  and  deeply  attentive 
congregations,  many  of  whom  received  the  word  with  visible 
demonstrations  of  joy. 

After  leaving  Huddersfield,  Lady  Huntingdon  spent  some 
time  at  Aberford  with  Mr.  and  Lady  Margaret  Ingham.  Whilst 
there,  her  Ladyship  made  an  excursion  to  Haworth,  and  as  it 
was  understood  that  Mr.  Fletcher  and  Mr.  Townsend  would 
preach,  an  immense  assemblage  of  people  collected  from  all 
parts.  Application  was  made  for  the  use  of  "  Mr.  Whitefield's 
pulpit,"  but  the  incumbent,  though  a  good  man,  was  averse  to 
out-of-door  preaching.  Lady  Huntingdon  remonstrated — the 
multitude  could  not  be  sent  away  empty — and  as  she  was  at- 
ended  by  two  clergymen,  both  of  whom  were  willing  to  undei^ 
take  the  service,  the  congregation  was  addressed  in  tlie  church- 
yard, by  Mr.  Fletcher  first,  and  afterwards  by  Mr.  Townsend. 

Not  long  after  her  arrival  at  Kippax,  on  a  visit  to  her  niece, 
Mrs.  Medhurst,  Lady  Huntingdon  became  so  alarmingly  indis- 

i)osed  as  to  preclude  the  possibility  of  her  proceeding  to  Scot- 
and,  at  least  for  the  pre^nt.  Mr.  Townsend,  however,  was 
sent  forward ;  and  the  particulars  of  his  mission  in  that  kingdom 
will  be  found  detailed  in  another  place.  Her  Ladyship  suffered 
much  at  this  time  from  bodily  indisposition,  which  necessarily 
prevented  her  from  exerting  herself  in  the  execution  of  those 
benevolent  plans  she  had  devjsed  for  the  more  general  diffusion 
of  divine  truth  in  Yorkshi  e  and  the  neighbouring  counties. 
Those  who  were  priyileged  to^  attend  her  at  this  season  witnessed 


SELINA,    countess    of    HUNTINGDON.  291 

her  growing  zeal  for  the  glory  of  God,  and  her  evident  desire 
to  live  more  to  Him  than  ever.  Her  heart  burned  with  love  to 
his  name,  and  breathed  the  most  fervent  wishes  to  bring  others 
to  the  knowledge  and  love  of  the  Saviour.  The  beginning  of 
July  Mr.  Madan  arrived  at  Kippax,  and,  with  Mr.  Fletcher,  Mr. 
Venn,  and  others,  was  fully  occupied  in  preaching  almost  every 
day  in  the  adjacent  counties  for  some  weeks.  Dr.  Conyers, 
rector  of  Helmsley,  Mr.  Burnet,  vicar  of  Elland,  Mr.  Ryfand, 
curate  of  Huddersfield,  Mr.  Bentley,  of  Kippax,  and  Mr. 
Powley,  vicar  of  Dewsbury,  occasionally  assisted,  and  made 
frequent  excursions,  not  only  in  the  neighbourhood,  but  to  the 
more  distant  parts  of  the  county,  affectionately  inviting  the 
multitudes  who  attended  them  wherever  they  itinerated,  to  "  the 
fountain  of  living  waters,"  and  "  warning  every  man,  and  teach- 
ing everj'  man,  in  all  wisdom,  that  they  might  present  every 
man  perfect  in  Christ  Jesus." 

Early  in  the  month  of  September,  Mr.  Whitefield  arrived  in 
Yorkshire,  where  he  had  what  he  calls  "  a  blessed  Methodist 
field-street-preaching  plan  before  him."  Having  preached  at 
Leeds  and  a  few  other  places,  he  went  on  to  Newcastle,  Sun- 
derland, and  Hartlepool,  where  he  preached  at  the  door  of  Mr. 
Romaine's  mother's  house,  and  then  returned  to  Leeds.  Whilst 
there,  he  lodged  at  the  house  of  one  William  Shent,  whom  he 
designates  "  a  peruke  maker,"  a  man  well-known  during  the 
early  struggles  of  Methodism  in  Yorkshire.* 

Mr.  Whitefield  preached  at  Helmsley,  then  visited  Dr.  Con- 
yerif  and  Mr.  Venn,  who  never  failed  to  join  Mr.  Whitefield  in 
the  church,  the  chapel,  the  cottage,  the  street,  or  the  fields. 
This  conduct  has,  to  our  surprise,  been  thought  to  require  an 
apology. 

In  the  account  of  his  life,  drawn  up  by  his  son,  the  late  Rev. 
John  Venn,  of  Clapham,  and  lately  published  by  his  grandson, 
the  Rev.  Henry  Venn,curateof  St.  John's,  Hoi loway,  Islington,  we 
find  the  following  observation  on  his  havinor  preached  freouently 
for  Mr.  Hill,  at  Surrey  Chapel : — "  Induced  by  the  hope  of  doing 
good,  my  father,  in  certain  instances,  preached  in  unconsecrated 
places.  But  having  acknowledged  this,  it  becomes  my  pleasing 
duty  to  state  that  he  was  no  advocate  for  irregularity  m  others ; 

that  when  he  afterwards  considered  it  in  its  different  bearings  and 

« 

•  One  time,  after  Shent  had  been  preaching  in  Mr.  Grimshaw*8  kitchen,  that 
good  man  fell  down  before  the  humble  itinerant,  saying,  "  I  am  not  worthy  to 
stand  in  your  presence."  Shent  suffered  many  hardships,  and  was  pressed  for 
a  soldier,  but  was  set  at  liberty  tlirough  the  interest  of  Lady  Huntingdon,  who 
frequently  called  him  the  *•  gmUlest  IsraeHte.'* 

u  2 


292  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

connections,  he  lamented  that  he  had  given  way  to  it,  and  re* 
strained  several  other  persons  from  such  acts  by  the  most  cogent 
arguments  I" 

At  what  ])recise  time  Mr.  Venn  ceased  to  be  guilty  of  these 
very  oJjectionahle  irregularities^  over  which  his  son  was  so  soli- 
citous to  draw  the  veil,  we  are  at  a  loss  to  conjecture.  During 
a  period  of  considerably  more  than  thirty  years,  he  continued 
in  the  same  undeviating  line  in  which  he  had  commenced  as 
curate  of  Clapham,  in  1755,  when  his  eyes  first  opened  to  the 
truth.  From  that  time  to  his  acceptance  of  tne  living  of 
Huddersfield,  in  1759,  he  was  frequent  in  preaching  and  ad- 
ministering the  sacrament  at  Lady  Huntingdon's  houses  in  Lon- 
don, Clifton,  and  other  places.  While  at  .Huddersfield  and 
Yelling,  he  continued  his  faithful  ministrations  in  her  Ladyship's 
chapels,  in  private  houses,  and  occasionally  in  the  open  air,  till 
some  unpleasant  litigations,  about  the  year  1782,  obliged  him 
and  other  beneficed  clergjmen  reluctantly  to  withdraw  their 
senices  from  her  Ladyship.  But  he  still  continued  the  irregu- 
•  lar  practice  of  preaching  in  barns,  and  other  unconsecrated 
places,  in  the  vicinity  of  Yelling,  and  at  Surrey  and  Orange- 
street  Chapels,  in  London,  up  to  the  year  1790,  and  within  a 
very  short  time  of  his  death,  when  inahility^  and  not  disinclina- 
tion, obliged  him  to  cease  from  labour. 

This  view  of  Mr.  Venn's  conduct  being  considered  as  offen- 
sive, his  descendants  have  put  forth  their  own  representations 
of  these  matters.  Both  accounts  cannot  possibly  be  true.  To 
what  then  can  euch  contradictions  tend?  The  fact  is,  the 
descendants  of  the  worthy  Venn  dread  the  charge  of  irregu- 
larity^ and  are  studious  to  wipe  him  clean  of  the  "  odour  "  of 
Methodism,  which  had  aspersed  him  from  the  commencement 
to  the  close  of  his  ministerial  labours.  We  have  no  particular 
attachment  to  the  term  Methodist ;  but  think  it  would  be  the 
height  of  folly  to  suppose  that  those  who  have  experimentally 
felt  the  truth,  and  tasted  indeed  that  the  Lord  is  gracious, 
should  ever  expect  to  steer  clear  of  the  odium  connected  with 
the  avowal  of  true  piety.  Everj'  reviver  of  evangelical  truth, 
though  labouring  within  the  strict  pale  of  regularity — every  faith- 
ful witness  who  proclaims  the  righteousness  of  our  God  and 
Saviour,  is  sure  to  sustain  the  brand  of  Methodism,  and  to  be 
most  liberally  abused  by  a  proud  self-righteous  world.  Nothing 
is  gained  for  the  Gospel  by  timidity :  pious  clergj'men  would  best 
subserve  the  cause  they  love  by  a  bold  recognition  of  brotherhood 
with  all  who  love  and  preach  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  sincerity. 
Had  more  intercourse  of  a  religious  character,  as  far  as  the  pre- 
sent system  of  national  restrictions  allow,  been  practised  by  serious 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTIXGDON.  293 

Churchmen,  it  would  have  convinced  the  world  that  there  are 
subjects  of  paramount  importance,  in  which  all  the  ffood  have  a 
common  interest:  their  own  minds  would  have  reape  clad  vantage, 
the  interchange  of  good  offices  would  have  promoted  reciprocl 
good  feeling,  and  much  would  have  been  done  to  prevent  that 
hostility  against  the  Church  of  England  which  has  discovered 
itself  in  some  of  the  best  of  the  Dissenters. 

Like  many  excellent  persons,  the  late  Mrs.  Hannah  More 
piqued  herself  on  the  regularity  of  her  attachment  to  the  Es- 
tablished Church ;  and,  for  various  reasons,  good  no  doubt  in 
her  own  judgment,  though  not  so  in  that  of  others  equally  pious, 
she  scrupulously  abstained  from  attending  divine  worship  where 
there  was  no  episcopal  sanction,  and  did  not  hesitate  to  make 
so  pitiable  an  apology  as  this,  and  that  to  a  bishop  too  of  no 
remarkable  excellence  : — "  As  to  connexion  with  conventicles 
of  any  kind,  I  never  had  any :  liad  I  been  irregular,  should  I 
not  have  gone  sometimes,  during  my  winter  residence  at  Bath, 
to  Lady  Huntingdon's  chapel,  a  place  of  great  occasional  re- 
sort ?  Should  I  never  have  gone  to  some  of  Whitefield's  or  * 
Wesley's  tabernacles,  in  London,  where  I  have  spent  a  long 
spring  for  nearly  thirty  years  ?  Should  I  not  have  strayed  now 
and  then  into  some  Methodist  meeting  in  the  country  ?  Yet 
not  one  of  these  things  have  I  ever  done."* 

Was  it  necessary  for  Mrs.  Hannah  More,  in  order  to  prove 
her  own  sincere  attachment  to  the  Church,  thus  to  stand  in 
complete  separation  from  all  who  were  not  of  her  own  commu- 
nion ?  But  she  dreaded  the  name  of  Methodist,  and  from  this 
part  of  the  reproach  of  the  cross  she  turned  away.  She  evi- 
dently loved  (as  Mr.  Roberts  acknowledges)  the  praises  of  her 
friends  and  of  the  public  generally.  She  was  flattered  by  the 
attention  paid  her  by  persons  of  rank,  in  Church  and  State, 
and  she  was  unwilling  to  endanger  it  by  any,  the  least,  con- 
nexion with  those  whom  it  was  the  fashion  to  brand  as  sectaries, 
enthusiasts,  and  fanatics.  This  was  her  fault,  and  it  brought 
its  own  punishment  with  it.  She  has  been  indelibly  stamped 
a  Methodist^  and  all  the  waters  of  the  Atlantic  will  not  wash 
her  clean  from  the  "  foul  blot."  How  often  has  she  struggled 
to  throw  off  the  vile  imputation  ?  This  is  the  weakness  of  her 
character.  When  she  found  it  necessary  to  appeal  to  the  bishop 
of  the  diocese,  we  find  her  employing  the  language  of  careful 
apology  ;  assuring  and  re-assuring  his  lordship  that  she  was,  and 

*  Notwithstanding  this  direct  asFertion,  we  are  greatly  mistukt  n  if  this  pious 
Lady  did  not  often  attend  the  preaching  of  the  Rev.  \V.  Jay,  and  o.'^casionidly 
receive  at  his  hands  the  Lord's  Supper  I 


294  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

always  had  been,  entirely  free  from  any  connexion  with  conventi- 
clers.  To  the  rank  and  office  of  the  Bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells 
respect  was  due ;  but  to  religion  and  truth  Inuch  more.  Higher 
ground  ought  to  have  been  taken  by  such  a  character  as 
Hannah  More;  and  posterity  would  not  have  blamed  her 
bad  she  shown  that,  mucn  as  she  loved  the  Church,  she  loved 
souls  yet  better. 

Mr.  Venn  not  only  wished  Lady  Huntingdon  "  good  luck  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord,"  but  supported  her  in  what  some  of 
his  more  timid  brethren  might  reckon  very  objectionable 
irregularities.  Inestimable  woman !  thou  art  gone  to  thy 
rest,  and  whether  thy  Great  Master  will  blame  or  praise  thee 
for  doing  good  to  the  souls  of  men,  regularly  or  irregularly,  is 
now  no  longer  dubious.  Hypocrisy  itself  must  be  ashamed  of 
the  supposition  that  Mr.  Venn  ever  disapproved  or  discoun- 
tenanced the  immensely  blessed  and  successful  efforts  of  the 
Countess  of  Huntingdon  to  spread  the  knowledge  of  the  doc- 
trine of  her  crucified  Lord. 

Nor  was  his  friendship  less  for  the  apostolic  Whitefield.  How 
highly  he  thought  of  nim,  his  own   account,   in  the  funeral 
sermon  which  he  preached  in  Lady  Huntingdon's  Chapel  at 
Bath,  will  best  tell.     Such  unequivocal  and  decided  testimonies 
leave  no  room  for  doubt  or  dispute  on  the  subject.     They  are 
not  the  friends  of  Mr.  Venn,  or  the  truths  he  so  ably  defended, 
who  would  cast  a  veil  over  those  he  most  honoured,  and  fear  to 
have  him  associated  with  those  apostolic  witnesses.     It  is  sin- 
gular that  in  his  memoirs,  lately  published  by  his  grandson, 
scarcely  any  allusion  is  made  to  Mr.  Whitefield  or  the  Messrs. 
Wesley,  or  Mr.  Venn's  connexion  and  correspondence   with 
those  great  men.     They  were  his  first  associates  when  he  came 
to  know  the  grace  of  God  in  Bath,  and  continued  his  intimates 
to  the  last.     His  acquaintance  with  Lady  Huntingdon  extended 
through  a  period  of  more  than  thirty  years,  during  which  time 
a  very  intimate  and  close    correspondence  took  place  between 
them,  yet  not  one  single  letter  has  appeared  in  the  work  !  Need 
we  mention  Mr.  Whitefield,  Mr.  Wesley,  Mr.    Fletcher,  the 
well-known  Howel  Harris,  and  Captain   Scott;  some  of  Mr. 
Venn's  letters  to  those  apostolic  men  have  appeared  in  various 
publications:  beloved  tnem,  he  venerated  them,  and  did  not 
disdain  to  labour  in  the  same  vineyard  with   them.     They  are 
all  gone  to  their  glorious  rest,  to  meet  in  the  better  temple 
together,  as  they  have  often  worshipped  in  concert  below,  and 
to  ffo  out  no  more. 

Mr,  Fletcher^  being  obliged  to  attend  the  duties  of  his  parish 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUMTINODOK.  295 

could  not  prolong  his  stay  in  Yorkshire,  and  therefore  left 
Kippax,  after  Mr.  Whitefield*s  arrival  there.  On  his  return  to 
Maaely,  he  wrote  thus  to  Lady  Huntingdon : — 

*'  My  very  dear  and  honoured  Lady, — The  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac, 
and  Jacob,  who  tried  Israel  and  led  them  through  many  a  wandering 
to  the  good  land,  that  he  might  do  them  more  good  in  their  latter  end 
— this  faithful  God  hath  met  with  you ;  a  rod  is  in  his  hand,  but  that 
hand  bears  so  deep  a  print  of  love,  that  the  design  of  his  visitation 
cannot  be  mistaken.  Nor  does  he  come  without  the  supporting  staffs 
he  kills  to  make  alive — ^he  wounds  to  heal — ^he  afHicts  to  comfort,  and 
to  do  it  more  deeply  and  effectually.  My  hearty  prayer  for  your  Lady- 
ship is,  that  you  may  drink  the  cup  the  Lord  holds  out  to  you  as  a 
new  token  of  his  unchangeable  love  :  I  call  it  unchangeable,  because 
it  is  really  so  in  its  nature,  though  the  appcai'ances  of  it  greatly  vary, 
for  the  trial  of  faith.  I  am  God,  says  he,  I  change  not,  therefore  Israel 
is  not  consumed,  and  Shadrac  is  kept  in  the  burning  fiery  furnace. 
When  I  think  of  your  Ladyship's  illness,  the  words  of  Paschal  often 
occur  to  my  mind,  and  are  a  little  relief  to  me.  Sickness,  said  that 
devoted  soul,  sickness  is  the  natural  condition  of  Christians :  they  are 
then,  as  they  should  always  be,  deprived  of  all  the  good  things  that 
belong  to  prosperity,  and  surrounded  with  the  evils  of  adversity  :  their 
senses  and  passions  are  mortified,  their  eyes  are  fixed  upon  death,  and 
their  hearts  on  the  Prince  of  Life.  What  a  blessing,  added  he,  to  be 
placed  by  the  kind  hand  of  Providence  in  that  very  state  which  wo 
should  choose  were  we  allowed  our  choice ! 

"  I  have  oflen  heard  your  Ladyship  speaking  admirably  upon  know- 
ing Christ,  and  the  power  of  his  resurrection,  together  with  the  fd^ 
lowship  of  his  sufferings.  The  Lord  will  hav3  vou  improve  in  that 
heavenly  knowledge,  therefore  he  gives  you  so  long  a  lesson  at  this 
time.  The  lesson  is  hard,  I  grant,  but  the  Master  is  so  loving^  the 
science  so  noble,  and  the  scholar  so  used  to  severe  exercises,  that  it  is 
no  wonder  you  are  placed  in  this  highest  form.  No  cross— no  crown  ! 
The  heavier  the  cross,  tlio  brighter  the  cro^vn.  I  often  wish  1  could 
bear  your  Ladyship's  burden,  but  check  this  impotent  wish,  by  rejoic- 
ing that  one  who  feels  not  only  touches  of  sympathy,  but  love  ever- 
lasting and  almighty  as  Himself,  bears  it  for  you,  and  bears  you  with 
it.  On  the  bosom  of  this  dear  heavenly  Physician  I  desire  to  place  you. 
There  I  want  you  to  enjoy  all  the  birth-sweets  of  sickness,  and  when 
patience  hath  had  its  perfect  work  there,  I  beg  you  may  live  and  love 
till  I  have  received  my  dismission  ;  and  when  yours  is  sealed,  may  I 
be  allowed  to  come  and  meet  your  departing  soul  among  those  whom 
you  have  made  your  friends  with  the  mammon  of  unrighteousness  and 
with  the  blessings  of  Gospel  righteousness,  and  who  will  long  to  wel- 
come you  into  everlasting  habitations. 

^'  Till  I  received  Lady  Anne's  letter,  I  often  wanted  to  persuade 
myself  that  your  Ladyship  had  got  quite  well  soon  after  I  had  left 
Kippax,  and  that  you  were  gone  to  London,  about  the  death  of  the 
person  I  heard  you  speak  of.  I  rejoice  that  the  Lord  laid  the  em- 
bargo upon  your  Ladyship  among  so  many  good  nurses  as  I  left  you  with, 


*296  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

I  pray  God  reward  them  for  their  labours  of  love  to  your  Ladyship, 
and  make  their  bed  for  them  when  they  are  visitecfin  their  turn. 
I  beg  my  best  respects  and  warmest  thanks  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Medhurst, 
Miss  Medhurst,  and  the  dear  company  of  your  Ladyship.  Their 
kindness  and  patience  towards  me  while  at  Kippax  haye  laid  me 
under  a  heavy  burden  of  obligations,  which  I  desire  gratefully  to 
acknowledge. 

*'  Through  a  mistake  of  our  good  friend  Ireland,*  dear  Mr.  Glascot 
came  here  the  day  after  I  arrived  irom  Yorkshire.  He  stayed  only  one 
day.  This  stripling  will  throw  down  Goliah.  I  blessed  that  cross  and 
accident  which  brought  me  acquainted  with  a  young  soldier  that  made 
me  so  ashamed  of  mvself.  Mr.  Hillt  is  gone  to  Brighthelmstone, 
where  I  hope  he  will  be  as  useful  as  he  is  in  Shropshire.  Captain 
Scott,  set  out  last  Monday  for  York,  after  making  a  great  stir  for  good 
in  Shrewsbury  :  he  hath  been  a  prophet  to  several  in  his  oim  country. 

"  I  am  loth  to  trouble  Lady  Anne  with  the  request  of  aline,  to  know 
how  your  Ladyship  does,  yet  I  know  not  well  how  to  give  up  the 
hope  ^e  \vi\\  once  more  steal  two  minutes  for  it.  I  am,  with  peculiar 
thanks  to  Lady  Anne  for  her  letter,  and  to  your  Ladyship  for  number- 
less favours,  my  Lady,  your  most  indebted  and  obliged  servant, 

**  J.  Fletcher." 

Lady  Huntingdon  being  sufficiently  recovered  from  her  late 
indisposition,  proceeded  to  Leeds  for  a  short  time,  and  was 
accompanied  thither  by  Mr.  Whitefield.  The  late  Mrs.  Deane 
who  resided  at  that  time  at  Whitkirk  near  Leeds,  was  considered 
as  ranking  among  the  higher  circles.  She  had  occasionally 
heard  Mr.  Ingham  and  Mr.  Edwards,  who  had  withdrawn  him- 
self from  Mr.  Wesley,  and  had  built  himself  a  place  of  worship, 
known  by  the  name  of  "  White  Chapel,"  at  Leeds,  where  he 
continued  to  dispense  the  Word  of  Life  for  more  than  thirty 
years.  Mr.  Edwards  mentioned  Mrs.  Deane  to  Lady  Hunting- 
don, who  observing  the  marks  of  a  penitent  in  her,  invited  her 
to  her  house,  and  there  she  became  acquainted  with  those  bright 
stars  that  then  shone  in  England,  and  now  shine  in  heaven, 
Messrs.  W^hitefield,  the  Wcsleys,  Venn,  Ingliam,  Romaine,  and 
other  clergjmen  who  found  a  welcome  in  that  honourable  hou^o. 
She  had  frequent  opportunities  of  conversing  with  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon, and  of  enjoying  those  spiritual  pleasures  which  would 
naturally  result  from  communication  with  one  so  well  qualified 
as  that  excellent  ladv,  to  direct  and  comfort  the  Christian  in  his 
road  to  glory. 

Mrs.  Dean  was  a  woman  of  rank,  of  superior  education  and 
accomplishments,  and  her  letters  and  meditations  afford  strong 
proofs  that  if  there  be  any  happiness  separate  from  union  ana 

•  James  heland,  Esq.  of  Brislington. 
f  Afterwards  Sir  Richard  Hill,  Bart. 


SELINA,    COUNTESS   OF    HUNTINGDON.  297 

communion  with  God  by  faith  in  Jesus  Christ,  she  had  powers 
capable  of  discerning  and  enjoying  it.  Her  writings  clearly 
show  that  she  did  not  seek  satisfaction  in  those  shadowy  sceues 
of  refined  iniquity  which  too  fatally  ensnare  the  majority  of 
those  triflinof  immortals  who  are  ranked  anionfr  the  rich  and 
great.     She  used  to  say — 

^'  People  in  general  are  seeking  happiness  where  it  can  never  be 
found — in  the  world  and  its  pleasures,  or  else  in  some  created  hcing — 
in  all  which  they  will  surely  meet  with  disappointment.  Reason  and 
religion  both  teajji  us  that  to  be  happy  we  must  be  holy;  and  the  ex- 
perience of  mind  bred  up  in  and  influenced  by  such  principles  most 
attest  the  truth  and  importance  of  them.  But  yet,  notwithstanding 
all  his  knowledge  and  experience  concerning  the  reasonableness,  the 
fitness,  and  the  beauty  of  holiness,  let  no  man  trust  in  or  think  to  find 
innate  goodness  in  himself.  Let  him  divest  himself  of  all  self-confi- 
dence, and  entirely  rely  on  his  Saviour  in  every  spiritual  conflict ;  and 
let  him  be  assured  he  will  then  find  a  strong  tower  of  defence  against 
every  evil,  and  will  be  ready  to  say — 

"  *  For  all  the  good  that  is  in  me, 
All  glory  to  the  Eternal  Three, 
Now  and  to  all  eternity.' 

to  which  I  humbly  subscribe  in  heart  and  name." 

Mrs.  Deane  was  nearly  allied  to  the  noble  family  of  Charles, 
Viscount  Irvine,  of  Temple  Newson,  on  the  river  Aire,  two  miles 
below  Leeds.  His  Loraship,  who  had  succeeded  to  the  title  in 
1763,  had  married  Miss  Shep'...»rd,  a  lady  possessed  of  a  very 
great  fortune.  Mrs.  Deane's  attachment  to  and  affection  for 
Lady  Irvine  and  every  member  of  that  honourable  family  were 
remarkable,  and  always  appeared  so  vigorous  that  they  were 
constantly  breaking  forth  in  the  most  ardent  prayers  for  their 
eternal  welfare.  She  soon  brought  her  Ladyship  acquainted 
with  Lady  Huntingdon,  and  never  failed  to  invite  Lord  and 
Lady  Inine  to  her  house  whenever  the  Countess  was  at  Leeds, 
or  at  Ledstone  Hall.  After  a  sermon  had  been  delivered  with 
which  she  had  been  particular  edified,  her  love  for  their  eternal 
interests  naturally  made  her  exclaim,  "  O  that  Lady  Irvine  and 
family  had  heard  this  !"  She  sometimes  hoped  well  of  them, 
and  thought  that  Lady  Huntingdon's  conversation  had  been 
blessed  to  Lady  Irvine.  In  one  of  her  letters  to  her  Ladyship 
she  says — 

"  You  will  rejo:e3  to  hear  that  my  dear  Lady  Irvine  accompanied 
me  to  hear  Mr.  Charles  Wesley.  There  was  a  very  crowded  con- 
gregation, and  he  preached  as  for  eternity,  and  could  look  his  hearers 
in  the  face,  and  say  with  humble  confidence — '  I  take  you  to  record 
this  day  that  I  am  pure  from  the  blood  of  all  man.'     The  worship  and 


398  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

service  of  tlie  day  altogether  appeared  to  my  dear  friend  most  saci«d, 
solemn,  and  delightful.  The  impressions  which  were  made  on  her 
mind  during  your  Ladyship's  last  conversation  with  her  have  continued 
ever  since  ;  and  I  earnestly  pray  and  hope  may  not  pass  away  like  the 
morning  cloud,  or  like  the  early  dew.  Her  judgment  and  understanding 
are  enlightened,  though  her  conscience  may  yet  he  unawakened ;  and 
though  she  thinks  differently  on  some  points  on  which  your  Ladyship 
spoke  so  ahly,  she  admits  the  doctrine  of  man's  total  depravity  by 
nature,  the  atonement,  justification  by  faith,  the  agency  of  the 
Spirit  in  the  work  of  regeneration,  and  holiness  of  heart  and  life  in 
order  to  final  salvation.  May  the  Spirit  of  God  impress  those  solemn 
truths  on  her  conscience,  and  apply  them  to  her  heart  with  power ! 
We  often  speak  of  your  Ladyship ;  and  my  dear  Lady  Irvine  acknow- 
ledges her  obligations  to  you  for  the  light  and  comfort  which  she  now 
enjoys.  Lord  Irvine  always  mentions  you  in  terms  of  great  respect 
and  admiration  of  your  talents  and  your  zeal."* 

To  return  to  our  narrative.  The  Rev.  Samson  Occum,  the 
Indian  preacher,  and  Mr.  Whitaker,  minister  of  Norwich,  in  New 
England,  who  had  arrived  in  this  country  the  preceding  year, 

•  Lady  Irvine  is  said  to  have  been  a  woman  of  great  excellence,  and  at  one 
period  of  her  life  much  impressed  with  divine  things.  To  her  intercourse  with 
Lady  Huntingdon  was  attnbuted  that  clear  and  comprehensive  view  of  the  plan 
of  redemi)tion  which  she  attained  ;  and  the  influence  of  the  great  truths  ot  the 
Gospel  in  all  the  relations  of  life  shone  conspicuous.  Her  Ladyship  survived 
Lord  Irvine  nearly  thirty  years,  and  died  at  Temple  Newsom,  November  20, 
1807,  in  the  74th  year  of  her  age,  much  regretted.  She  outlived  the  death  of 
her  dear  old  friend  and  relative,  Mrs.  Deane,  about  nine  months.  Her  charities 
were  as  extensive  as  her  rank  was  elevated  ;  and  by  his  death  the  poor  of  the 
surrounding  villages  lost  a  munificent  benefactress.  Lord  Irvine  dymg  without 
male  issue,  the  title  became  extinct,  after  it  had  been  possessed  by  nine  indi. 
viduals  in  the  period  of  one  hundred  and  seventeen  years,  making  the  small 
average  of  thirteen  years  to  each.  Lady  Irvine  was  the  grandmother  of  the 
present  Marquis  of  Hertford,  to  whom  descended  a  great  portion  of  the  estates 
of  the  Ingram  family. 

Mrs.  Deane  lived  near  nine  years  of  that  period  when  even  a  "  man''8  8trenafh 
is  labour  and  sorrow."  She  was,  however,  no  worse  than  usual  till  the  morning 
of  February  3d,  1807,  and  then  the  springs  of  life  began  to  ebb  in  death.  She 
repeated  often  that  morning — 

"  Christ  in  me — my  hope  of  glory, 
Christ  in  me — my  God  of  love." 

She  seemed  to  have  a  presentiment  of  her  approaching  change,  breathing  out 
for  some  time,  "  Dear  Jesus,  be  with  me  to  my  journey's  end,  which  lheliet*0 
win  not  he  long."  On  being  asked  if  she  wanted  anything,  she  answered— ."None 
but  Christ  for  me." 

**No  music  like  thy  charming  name, 
Nor  half  so  sweet  can  be." 

About  three  hours  before  her  dissolution,  as  if  gazing  on  celestial  glories  and 
listening  to  angelic  praises,  completely  victorious  over  the  last  enemy,  she  cried 
out,  "  Glory  !  glory  I  glory  !  Hallelujah  1  hallelujah !  hallelujah  to  God  and 
the  Lamb  for  ever,  and  ever,  and  ever !"  The  powers  of  language  never  failed . 
and  she  gradually  sank  into  the  arms  of  death,  falling  asleep  in  Jesus,  the  4tb 
pf  February,  aged  88  years  and  nin^  months. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  299 

to  promote  the  interests  of  the  Indian  Charity  Schools  at  Le- 
banon, had   been  making  a  tour   in  Scotland  and   collecting 
money  for  the  object  of  their  mission.     At  Newcastle  a  very 
considerable  sum  was  collected,  after  a  sermon  by  Mr.  Wesley, 
who  preached  at  the  particular  request  of  Mr.  Whitaker.     They 
visited  several  places  in  Yorkshire,  and  met  with  great  success ; 
Mr.  Romaine,  Mr.  Venn,  and  Mr.  Powlejr  also  advocating  their 
cause  at   Leeds,  Huddcrsfield,    and  Kippax.     Mr.  Whitefield 
preached  at  Sheffield  the  day  after  Mr.  Occum  and  Mr.  Whita- 
ker had  left  it.     "  The  Americans  were  gone  (says  he)  the  day 
before  I  arrived  at  Sheffield ;  I  missed  them  by  coming  through 
Chesterfield  instead  of  Mansfield."     At  Leeds  Mr.  whitefield 
and   Lady   Huntingdon   were  joined  by  Captain   Scott,  who 
preached  to  amazing  crowds.     His  popularity  was  very  great 
at  this  period.     Many  of  the  rich,  worldly-wise,  and  honourable 
could  not   endure  such    preaching;  but  the   common   people 
heard  him  gladly,  and  blessed  God  for  the  preaching,  which 
they  could  fully  understand,  and  were  as  much  disposed  as  ever 
to  say,  "  H  )w  beautiful  aro  the  feet  of  them  that  preach  the 
gospel  of  peac3,  and  bring  glad  tidings  of  good  things  !" 

Mr.  Whitefield  proceeded  to  Huddcrsfield,  and  passed  some 
weeks  with  Mr.  Venn,  but  was  compelled  to  decline  Mr.  Flet- 
cher's invitation  to  Madely,  as  stated  in  a  letter  to  one  of  his 
prime  favourites,  Mrs.  Herritage,  whom  he  calls  the  "  London 
Shunamite,'* 

**  Leeds,  Oct.  3,  1767. 

"  My  good  Shunamite, — Just  as  your  letter  came  I  was  taking  pen 

in  hand  to  send  you  a  few  lines.     What  a  mercy  when  good  news 

comes  from  town  and  country  !     And  what  news  so  good  as  that  of 

the  word  of  the  Lord  Jesus  runninir  and  bein;j  glorified  ?     This  hath 


•o  ft* 


been  the  case  with  the  willing,  hut  worthless  pilgrim.  Every  where 
the  sound  of  his  Master's  feet  hath  been  heard  behind  him.  Jf  ield  and 
street  preaching  hath  rather  bettered  than  hurt  his  bodily  health.  But 
a««  the  weather  begins  to  break,  he  must  look  towards  winter  quarters. 
This  makes  it  impracticable  for  him  to  go  to  Madely.  It  is  too  far 
distant.     May  Jesus  support  the  suffering  martyr.     He  will  I  He  will ! 

*  He  knows  what  sore  temptations  mean, 
For  he  hath  felt  the  same.** 

I  know  this  will  find  you  a  living  martyr,  a  witness  of  the  truths  and 
life  of  Jesus^  the  only  preparative  for  dying  a  martyr.  That  whether 
you  live,  you  may  live  unto  the  Lord  ;  or  whether  you  die,  you  may 
die  unto  the  Lord,  is  the  earnest  prayer  of,  dear  Mrs.  Herritage, 

"  Yours,  &c.,  in  our  common  Lord, 

"  Georok  Whitefield." 

This  was  Mr.  Whitefield's  last  visit  to  Yorkshire ;  and  it  is 
worthy  of  remark  that  the  last  sermon  preached  by  that  apostolic 


300  THB  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

witness  in  that  county  was  delivered  in  the  pulpit  of  Hudders- 
field  church. 

The  ministry  of  the  Rev.  Thomas  Wilson,  about  this  period, 
began  to  attract  much  attention  in  Yorkshire.     Possessed  of 
strong  faith  in  the  divine  word,  a  fervent  love  of  God  and  Christ, 
and  a  living  sense  of  the  vast  worth  of  men's  souls,  he  became 
a  most  diligent  preacher,  uncommonly  zealous  in  his  manner, 
and  remarkably  plain  and  pointed  in  his  addresses  to  men's  con- 
sciences.    His  praise,  not  as  a  scholar  indeed,  but  as  a  good 
minister  of  Jesus  Christ,  will  long  continue  to  be  heard  through 
a  large  and  populous  district.     His  simplicity  and  godly  sin- 
cerity were  admitted  and  admired  by  great  numbers,  who  could 
not  be  prevailed  upon  by  his  tears  and  entreaties  to  forsake 
their  sinful  courses ;  nevertheless,  he  has  left  behind  him  many 
seals  of  his  ministnr ;  and  many,  it  is  believed,  converted  by 
his  means,  died  before  him  in  faith,  and  most  joyfully  received 
his  spirit  into  the  heavenly  habitations.     He  lived  down  pre- 
judice and  slander  in  a  very  uncommon  degree :  his  rule  and 
his  'practice  were,  to  overcome  evil  by  domg  good.     He  was 
eminently  a  man  of  peace:  he  loved  it  in  his  heart — he  sought 
it  earnestly:  but  this  divine  and  amiable  disposition  did  not 
damp   his  zeal  for  the  cause  of  God,  and  his  concern  to  save 
men's  souls.  He  boldly  rebuked  sin  ;  he  showed  his  abhorrence, 
particularly,  to  that  destructive  vice  of  drunkedness,  so  prevalent 
m  manufacturing  places,  which  robs  so  many  of  the  lower  orders 
not  only  of  their  comforts,  but  of  the  necessaries  of  life.     He 
kept  a  watchful  eye  over  public  houses  :  he  felt  and  frequently 
expressed  the  deepest  sorrow  {and  his  regrets  were  not  always 
unavailing),  at  the  irregularities  and  excesses  which  occurred 
in   those  places,  and  especially  on  Sunday  evenings.     Many 
nights  of  broken  rest  did  he  pass,  occupied  with  reflections  on 
the  depravity,    blindness,  and   madness  of  sinners,    who  were 
treasuring  up  to  themselves  wrath  against  the  day  of  wrath, 
while  they  despised  or  neglected  all  his  warnings — his  warm, 
vehement,  affectionate  appeals  to  their  consciences.  . 

Mr.  Wilson  was  somewhat  advanced  in  life  when  he  first 
turned  his  thoughts  towards  the  ministry ;  and  he  had  not  had 
the  advantage  of  a  regular  classical  education.  A  clergyman 
of  Leeds,  of  a  kindred  spirit,  beheld  in  his  fervent  piety  the 
dawning  of  singular  usefulness,  and  put  him  in  the  way  of  ob- 
taining holy  orders.  He  applied  himself  to  the  study  of  the 
languages,  and  was  ordained  to  a  curacy  near  Wetherby,  York- 
shire. There  his  ardent  spirit  laboured  diligently ;  and  much 
concern  about  religion  appeared  in  many  of  his  congregation. 
Whilst  there  he  received  a  visit  from  Lady  Huntingdon,  m  one 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  301 

of  her  numerous  niinbles  through  Yorkshire,  and  her  advice 
and  conversation  were  of  fjreat  benefit  in  exciting  him  to 
greater  diUgence  and  zeal  in  the  discharge  of  the  duties  of  his 
function.  Some  things  there  were,  however,  disagreeable  to 
him  in  that  situation ;  and.  on  the  removal  of  Mr.  Powley  to 
Dewsbury,  Mr.  Wilson,  through  his  means,  became  perpetual 
curate  of  Slaighwaite. 


CHAPTER  XVIII. 

Melancholy  state  of  Mr.  Inghum — Lady  Huntingdon  and  Mr.  Venn — niness 
and  Death  of  Lady  Margaret  Ingham — Letter  from  Mr.  Ingham — Letter 
from  Mr.  Romaine — Mr.  Ingham's  treatise  on  the  Faith  and  Hope  of  the 
Gospel — Mr.  Riddell — Lady  Huntingdon  sends  Students  to  Yorkshire — 
Letter  from  Mr.  Riddell — Mr.  Joseph  Milner  of  Hull — Attends  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon's Preachers — Begins  to  preach  the  Gospel — Mr.  Tyler — Letter  from 
Lady   Huntingdon  to   Mr.  Romaine — Mr.  Tyler*8  labours  at  Hull — Letter 

from    Lady     Hantingdon    to  Mr.  Milner York — Mr.  Wren — Letter  from 

Lady  Huntingdon—Letter  from  Mr.  Wren— Mr.  Glascott Mr.  Wells — Mr. 

Powley — Lady  Huntingdon's  chapel  at  York. 

The  almost  total  dispersion  of  the  Yorkshire  churches,  caused 
by  the  introduction  of  the  Sandemanian  principles,  h;vl  a  snd 
effect  on  Mr.  Ingham's  mind.  He  was  liable  to  sudden  tran- 
sitions from  the  highest  flow  of  spirits  to  the  utmost  depression, 
and  the  peculiar  character  of  his  temperament  was  an  extreme 
accessibility  to  sudden  attacks  of  melancholy.  It  was  his  belief 
that  calamity  was  connected  with  the  conviction  of  sin  and  the 
desert  of  punishment.  "  We  are  very  guilty  concerning  our 
brother,  therefore  is  this  distress  come  upon  us."  "  The  thing," 
which,  like  Job,  he  had  "  greatly  feared"  was  come  upon  him — 
he  was  deserted  by  his  spiritual  children,  and  the  thought  re- 
duced him  to  a  most  distressing  state  of  mind.  "  *  He  is  lost  I 
He  is  lost !'  this  (writes  Mr.  Venn)  is  his  despairing  cry." 
Lady  Huntingdon  wrote  to  her  afflicted  relative,  and  her  words 
were  blessed  to  his  most  sorrowful  and  anguished  spirit.  "  A 
thousand  and  thousand  times  (he  tells  her  after  his  recovery) 
do  I  bless  and  praise  my  God,  for  the  words  of  comfort  and 
consolation  which  your  Ladyship's  letters  conveyed  to  my  mourn- 


d02  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

ful  heart,  dismayed  and  overwhelmed  as  it  was  by  the  pressure 
of  my  calamities.  *  Righteous  art  thou,  O  Lord,  and  just  are 
thy  judgments.' " 

He  was  soon  tried  still  further,  for  the  health  and  strength 
of  Lady  Margaret  Ingham  now  sensibly  and  visibly  declined;  to 
the  last  she  continued  to  exercise  those  christian  graces,  faith, 
patience,  and  resignation  to  the  will  of  her  heavenly  Father, 
for  which  she  had  been  long  distinguished.     Of  herself  and  her 
efforts  her  view  was  ever  humble,  and  any  reference  to  her 
usefulness,    she    met   with   grateful  acknowledgments  of  the 
sovereignty  of  that  grace  that  made  her  the  instrument  of  good 
to  others.     Her  end,   though  painful,  was  triumphant.      She 
welcomed  the  hour — she  longed  to  receive  the  prize  of  her  high 
calling.     Mrs.  Medhurst  and  Miss  Wheeler  repaired  to  Aberford 
and  witnessed  her  release  from  the  flesh :  to  both  she  exclaimed 
with  all  her  wonted  energy,  "  Thanks  be  to  God  !  thanks  be  to 
God !  the  moment's  come,  the  day  is  dawning !"  and  thus  in 
holy  extasy  she  winged  her  way  to  glory.     Miss  Wheeler  an- 
nounced her  death  to  the  Countess,  who  wrote  a  letter  of  con- 
solation to  Mr.  Ingham,  from  the  reply  to  which  we  quote,  as 
a  further  illustration  of  her  Ladyship's  happiness  in  the  hour 
of  trial : — 

"  When  she  had  no  longer  strength  to  speak  to  me  (writes  Mr. 
Ingham)^  she  looked  most  sweetly  at  me  and  smiled.  On  the  Tues- 
day before  she  died,  when  she  had  opened  her  heart  to  me,  and 
declared  the  ground  of  her  hope,  her  eyes  sparkled  with  divine  joy, 
her  countenance  shone,  her  clieeks  were  ruddy  ;  I  never  saw  her  look 
80  sweet  and  lively  in  my  life.  All  about  her  were  affected ;  no  one 
could  refrain  from  tears,  and  yet  it  was  a  delight  to  be  with  her." 

Lady  Margaret  died  on  the  30th  of  April,  1768,  in  her  68th 
year,  she  was  borne  to  the  grave  by  devout  men,  and  wept  by 
the  tears  of  the  Church. 

Mr.  Romaine,  in  a  letter  to  Mrs.  Medhurst,  says — 

"  I  got  a  good  advancement  by  the  death  of  Lady  Margaret,  and 
was  led  into  a  sweet  path  of  meditation,  in  which  I  went  on  contem- 
plating till  my  heart  burned  within  me Many  a  time  my  spirit  has 

been  refreshed  with  hearing  her  relate  simply  and  feelingly  how  Jesus 
was  her  life." 

Her  marriage  with  Mr.  Ingham  had  increased  his  means,  but 
before  that  event  his  benevolence  was  no  less  remarkable  than 
his  liberality  afterwards.  His  purse  supplied  the  expenses  of 
almost  all  his  preachers.  He  survived  her  Ladyship  only  four 
years.  In  person  he  is  said  to  have  been  extremely  handsome — 
^*  too  handsome  for  a  man,"  and  the  habitual  expression  of  bis 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  309 

countenance  was  most  prepossessing.  He  was  a  gentleman; 
temperate,  and  irreproachable  in  his  morals ;  as  a  public  speaker, 
animated  and  agreeable  rather  than  eloquent ;  studious  of  the 
good  conversation  of  his  people,  and  delicately  fearful  of  reproach 
to  the  cause  of  Christ.  His  son  Ignatius,  by  his  wavering  faith, 
caused  some  uneasiness  and  regret  to  the  friends  of  his  distin- 
guished parents. 

Soon  after  the  establishment,  by  Lady  Huntingdon,  of  a  Col- 
lege in  Wales,  Mr.  Edward  Riddell,  a  pious  Dissenter,  who, 
having  made  a  casual  visit  to  Hull,  was  by  series  of  providential 
events  induced  to  remain  there,  wrote  to  her  Ladyship  to  request 
her  to  send  down  to  him  some  of  the  students ;  for  he  and 
others  had  separated  from  the  Church  with  which  they  had  been 
connected,  and  a  new  place  of  worship  was  much  wanted  in 
HuU.^  Her  Ladyship  complied  in  this,  as  in  all  cases,  where 
the  means  of  spreading  the  holy  Gospel  were  within  her  reach. 
The  names  of  the  first  students  at  Trevecca  who  went  down  to 
Hull  are  irrecoverably  lost,  but  their  doctrine  is  known  to  have 
created  a  deep  feeling  in  that  town.  Rich  and  poor  thronged 
the  chapel  to  hear  of  human  depravity,  of  atonement  for  sin  by 
the  sacrifice  of  Christ,  of  justification  freely  given  by  grace, 
of  imputed  righteousness,  and  of  the  Spirit's  work  in  regene- 
ration, sanctification,  and  comfort.  Among  the  converts  Mr. 
Riddell  mentions  in  a  letter  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  full  of  grati- 
tude for  the  genrous  aid  she  had  lent  his  "  mfant  society,"  a 
Mr.  Milner,  head  master  of  the  grammar  school,  and  lecturer 
of  the  principal  Church  in  Hull.  "  He  is  constant  in  his  atten- 
dance on  the  ministry  of  your  Ladyship's  students,  of  whom  he 
has  made  particular  enquiries  concerning  your  Ladyship's 
College  in  Wales,  the  teaching  of  its  president  and  tutors,  and 
also  concerning  the  chapels  at  Bath,  Brighton,  &c.'^  Mr. 
Riddell  requests  her  Ladyship  will  write  to  Mr.  Milner,  and 
also  urges  a  visit  from  one  of  her  Ladyship's  chaplains,  and, 
after  due  acknowledgment  for  all  Lady  Huntingdon's  efforts  in 
the  cause  of  the  gospel,  says,  "  the  land  is  still  before  you,  in 
which  the  seed  has  never  yet  been  sown."  The  Mr.  Milner 
here  alluded  to  was  a  native  of  Leeds,  born  of  parents  who,  if 
not  great  or  noble,  were  the  ornaments  of  the  sphere  in  which 
they  moved.  Joseph,  their  son,  owed  much  of  his  deep  religious 
feeling  to  his  mother,  a  constant  hearer  of  the  Rev.  John  Ed- 
wards. He  was  introduced  by  this  parent  to  the  Rev,  Christo- 
pher Atkinson,  of  Thorp  Arch,  near  Tadcaster,  one  of  the  first 
Methodists  when  at  Oxford,  and  a  correspondent  of  White- 
field,  the  Wesleys,  Ingham,  Hervev,  &c.,  and  to  his  son,  the 
Rev.   Myles  Atkinson,  afterwards  vicar  of  Kippax,  and  minister 


t)|V|  vHv  nvr  and  times  of 

of  Si.  l^ul^  Ji!  I  «.\s:v.   !lo  Nvar.u^  assistant  in  the  school  of  Mr. 
Aikni>oiu  ,itM  ,i\o  m  iio  vurv^  of  his  ohu.oh  :  liit  Mr.  Milner 
ha^  hiuJM'li  iKv!.ii\\l   i\\M  ho  kIki  roi  then  {<e\  the  true  faith, 
but  i»ivaoht\l  buiKM*lt   luihor  tlun  Jo>rs.     I  is  «;reat   ambition 
was  hiorury   tuirox  and  ilio  a^>j'l.u:so  ot  his  he.irers.     His  first 
senuou  at   Hull  >*as   much  a{n'l;uKlcvl«  but  years  afterwards  he 
tOi>k  that  very  Jisovuir^e  iiiio  the  pulpits  dwoh  upon  its  errors, 
ex{K>sed  its  fallacies  auvl  coninistovl  its  doctrines  with  those 
he  then  avowed.     Even  the  early  Methoilists  themselTes  were 
similarly  misled ;  for  they  had  then  scarcely  got  beyond  the 
natural,  though  erroneous  hope,  of  saving  themselves  by  a  rigid 
observance  of  the  law — by  a  superstitious  excess  in  abstinence, 
nay  fasting;  instead  of  simply  looking  to  the  Lord  Jesus  for 
rigliteousncss  and  strength,  and  making  his  merits  the   sole 
ground  of  their  justification  before  God.     Mr.  Milner,  who  was 
a  favourite  with  his  patrons,  the  Mayor  and  Aldermen^  had 
happily   secured  his  election   to   the   school   and  lectureship 
bciore  anv  outward  manifestation  had  been  given  of  his  inward 
change.  Had  it  been  othenvLsc  his  aged  mother  mi^ht  have  died 
for  want,  his  niece  and  nephew  have  remained  destitute  on)hans 
his  brotlier*  have    laboured    with  his   hands  through  life,    at 
the  manufactures  in  Yorkshire — nay  the  town  of  Hull  might 
have  continued  without  the  sound  of  the  Gospel  from  the  pulpits 
of  the  Established  Church,  ere  one  vote  would  have  been  given 
to  him  for  either  school  or  lectureship. 

His  moral  character  was  without  spot ;  he  was  regular,  tem- 
perate, and  decorous,  orthodox  and  loyal,  admired  for  nis  preacn- 
mg  as  well  as  for  his  learning,  and  eagerly  intrusted  with  the 
education  of  the  children  of  the  chief  inhabitants  of  Hull,  with 
whom  he  wjis  extremely  popular.  It  w.is  then  that  the  students 
of  Lady  Huntingdon's  College  at  Trevecca,  by  their  preaching 
in  Hull,  opened  the  eyes  of  his  mind  to  its  darkness,  and  im- 
pressed him  with  the  truth  of  that  saying,  "  that  Jesus  Christ 
came  into  the  world  to  save  sinners,  even  the  chief  of  sinners." 
They  proved  to  him  that  he  was  in  the  condition  of  the  unre- 
generatc ;  and  as  the  light  shone  on  his  mind,  he  poured  it  out 
upon  his  people,  discovering  error  by  the  gradual  revelation  of 
the  truth  as  it  is  in  Jesus.  It  was  clear  to  all  that  he  was  in 
earnest,  and  that  because  he  believed  therefore  had  he  spoken  ; 
yet  conviction  of  his  truth  did  not  persuade  others.  The  man 
who  had  become  intolerable  in  the  pulpit  soon  became  an  un- 
welcome guest  at  table,  and  the  "  Methodist"  Milner  fell  out 
of  favour  with  the  men  of  the  world.     Except  once  a  year,  when 

Dr.  Isaac  Milner,  Dean  of  Carlisle,  Master  of  Qucen*s  College,  Cambridgei 
l^ce  Chancellor  of  the  Univenity. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  305 

he  preached  officially  as  chaplain  to  the  Mayor,  few  of  the 
superior  rank  ever  attended  his  ministry,  but  the  common  people 
heard  him  gladly,  and  his  large  church  was  crowded.  The 
"enthusiast"  Milner  became  the  subject  of  scandal  and  foul- 
faced  reproach,  and  the  victim  of  intolerable  though  petty  per- 
secution. Now  he  was  described  as  an  oily  hypocrite,  courting 
by  an  affected  sanctity  the  patronage  of  the  Ean  of  Dartmouth, 
Chief  Baron  Smythe,  the  Countess  of  Huntingdon,  "  and  other 
notorious  enthusiasts ;"  at  another  time  he  was  said  to  be  spurred 
on  by  the  love  of  popular  applause ;  and  at  another  the  cry  was 
that  "  Milner  was  a  madman  !" 

At  this  moment,  Mr.'Harris,  minister  of  Dagger-lane  Chapel, 
had  occasion  to  leave  Hull  for  a  period,  and  at  his  request 
Lady  Huntingdon  sent  down  the  Rev.  William  Tyler  to  supply 
his  plade.  Mr.  Tyler  was  about  the  same  age  as  Milner,  and 
the  latter  attended  his  ministry  as  one  might  be  expected  to  do, 
who  had  been  called  at  the  same  time  and  by  the  same  means, 
and  they  found  mutual  support  and  improvement  in  their  com- 
munications, which  led  to  an  enduring  friendship.  Lady  Hunt- 
ingdon soon  commenced  a  correspondence  with  Mr.  Milner, 
who  had  thus  been  converted  by  the  ministry  of  her  students. 
In  a  letter  to  Mr.  Romaine,  her  Ladyship  says — "  I  have  some 
students  at  Hull  whose  ministry  has  been  remarkably  owned. 
Dear  Mr.  Milner  writes  me  word  that  he  has  reason  to  bless 
God  for  putting  it  into  my  head  to  send  ministers  to  Hull,  as 
the  plain  preacning  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus,  not  with  words  and 
reasoning,  which  man's  wisdom  teacheth,  but  as  the  Holy  Ghost 
teacheth,  God  has  been  pleased  to  honour  and  bless,  in  con- 
vincing him  of  the  great  necessity  he  was  under  of  securing  an 
interest  in  Christ."* 
|i    Mr.  Tyler  was,  like  Mr.  Milner,  descended  from  honest  but 

()oor  progenitors ;  his  father,  a  pious  and  industrious  nian,  had 
lim  instructed  in  the  ordinary  branches  of  education,  and  at 
fourteen  years  of  age  he  was  bound  apprentice  to  a  watchmaker 
in  London,  but  his  master  dying  in  tne  first  year  of  his  service, 
young  Tyler  returned  to  his  father's  house,  wnich  he  quitted  no 
more  until,  in  his  twenty-fourth  year,  he  was  called  to  preach 

*  If  Mr.  Venn,  of  Holloway,  Islington,  had  been  acquainted  with  this  true 
history  of  the  gradual  change  wrought  in  the  mind  of  Mr.  Milner,  he  would  not 
have  asserted,  as  we  find  he  has  done  in  the  life  of  his  grandfather,  that  "  Mr. 
Milner  was  one  of  those  evangelical  labourers  who  denved  their  view  of  the 
truth  directly  fiom  the  Word  of  God,  who  were  independent  of  the  Methodists, 
and  nearly  contemporaneous  with  them,  and  whose  labours  had  an  immediate 
and  remarkable  influence  upon  the  clergy  of  the  Church  of  England.**  This  is  not 
the  only  error  Mr.  Venn  commits  in  the  long  list  of  names  prefixed  to  his 
grandfather's  correspondence.  It  would  be  easy  to  prove  that  the  light  which 
then  fell  upon  the  Church  was  poured  through  the  channel  of  Methodism. 

VOL,  I. — X 


306  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

the  Gospel.     The  habits  of  virtue  he  had  acquired  beneath  the 
parental  roof  had  been  shaken  in  London,  where  evil  company, 
especially  some  of  the  singers  and  dancers  at  Sadler's  Wells, 
lea  him  into  some  excesses.      With  such  a  party  he  had  joined 
to  create  a  riot  at  the  Tabernacle ;  but  no  sooner  was  the  text 
uttered,  than  feelings  of  home  and  heaven  rushed  upon  his  heart 
at  the  same  instant,  and  he  resolved  at  once  to  leave  for  ever 
the  associates  who  had  misled  him.      This  resolution  he  had 
strength  of  mind  to  keep,  and  his  return  home  occurred  in  happy 
time  to  prevent  any  backsliding  or  yielding  of  the  Spirit.     He 
eagerly  accepted  the  offer  of  the  good  Lady  Huntmgdon,  to 
whose  notice  ne  had  been  recommended,  to  go  to  her  Ladyship's 
College,  at  Trevecca ;  here  he  would  fain  have  acquired  that 
knowledge  from  which  the  scantiness  of  his  early  mstruction 
had  excluded  him,  especially  the  original  languag^es  of  the  Holy 
Scriptures.      But  no  sooner  had  he  arrived  m  Wales  than  his 
hand  was  put   to    the  plough,  and   his   time  was  devoted  to 
preaching  in  different  parts  of  the  country.     He  was  continually 
travelling,  and  his  sermons  were,  for  the  most  part,  studied  on 
horsebacL 

He  had  not  been  a  long  time  resident  in  Hull  before  Mr. 
Milner  proposed  to  him  to  go  to  Cambridge ;  and  as  he  had 
been  a  Dissenter  less  by  choice  than  circumstances,  to  extend 
his  usefulness  by  obtaining  episcopal   ordination.     Mr.   Milner 
devoted  himself  to  the  task  of  instructing  his  friend  in  the  neces- 
sary preparatory  knowledge,  and  recommended  him  to  a  benevo- 
lent society,  at  whose  expense  he  was  sent  to  Magdalen  College, 
Cambridge,  in  November  1778.      He  took  a  Bachelor's  degree 
and  was  ordained  deacon  in  the  Temple  Church,  by  the  Bishop 
of  London,  on  Trinity  Sunday,  in  the  year  1782.     His  title  was 
to  the  Churches  of  Partney  and  Dulby,  in  Lincolnshire :  and  by 
the  patronage  of  Lord  Monson  he  became  perpetual  curate  of 
the  latter.      The  rector  of  Partney,  after  three  years'  senice, 
dismissed  him  from  his  curacy  for  holding  prayer-meetings  in 
his  own  and  other  houses  :  but  in  1786  he  was  presented  by  the 
Lord  Chancellor  to  the  living  of  Bray  toft,  where  he  laboured 
for  twenty  years,  serving  three  churches,  and  riding  sixteen  miles 
everj'  Sunday,  in  rain  and  snow  as  well  as  in  sunshine,  through 
the  worst  roads  in  England.     In  1806  Dr.  Fowler  gave  him  the 
living  of  Ashby,  near  Spilsby,  where  he  continued  till  July  14, 
180^  when  the  Lord  dismissed  him  from  this  world  of  sin  and 
sorrow,  in  the  sixtieth  year  of  his  age,  leaving  a  widow  and  one 
daughter  to  lament  his  loss. 

It  will  be  asked,  doubtless,  what  part  Lady  Huntingdon  took 
when  Mr.  Tyler,  at  Mr.  MOner^s  suggestioiii  left  Trevecca  and 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  307 

her  Ladyship's  religious  Connexion,  to  go  to  the  University  and 
to  seek  ordination  r  The  following  letter  to  Mr.  Milner  will 
answer  the  question  : — 

"  It  is  no  consolation,  my  dear  Sir,  that  you  have  so  honestly  and 
so  heartily  emharkcd  in  the  cause  of  good  men,  of  angels,  and  of  God? 
Recollect,  *  it  is  good  to  be  zealously  affected  always  in  a  good  cause.' 
Blessed  be  God  that  you  have  put  your  lip  to  the  Gospel  trumpet  and 
sounded  salvation  to  the  guilty.  Be  not  deterred  by  the  shafts  of  ridi- 
cule, or  the  opposition  of  the  profane.  Remember  the  God  whom  you 
serve  '  rides  on  the  whirlwind  and  directs  the  storm.*  Your  progress 
may  be  retarded,  but  your  triumph  is  secure.  Though  earth  and  hell 
combine  their  force  against  you,  yet  you  shall  do  the  work  the  great 
Head  of  the  Church  has  marked  out  for  you.  Labour  earnestly,  for 
you  shall  not  labour  in  vain.  Up  and  be  doing,  in  the  name  and  for 
the  sake  of  Christ !  slumber  not  at  your  post.  Be  thankful,  highly 
thankful,  that  the  Lord  will  condescend  to  let  you  do  any  thing  for  him 
and  the  furtherance  of  his  kingdom  among  men.  Go  on,  my  good  Sir, 
go  on  with  your  blessed  work,  for  it  will  not  cover  you  w ith  confusion 
in  the  last  great  day.  By  and  by  you  will  reap  the  fruits  of  your  faith 
and  labour  of  love,  and  hear  your  great  Master  say  unto  you — *'  well 
done,  good  and  faithful  servant.* 

"  Universal  good  to  all  is  m.y  duly  object  upon  earth ;  and  I  only 
look  for  further  light  to  promote  more  extensively  the  honour  of 
Christ  and  the  best  interests  of  the  multitude  everywhere  perishing 
for  lack  of  knowledge.  From  your  most  just  and  forcible  represent- 
ation, I  feel  it  expedient  to  relinquish  my  claims  on  the  services  of 
Mr.  Tyler.  Of  his  abilities  you  are  capable  of  judging  ;  and  I  can 
sup])ly  you  with  every  honourable  and  satisfactory  testimonial  in  favour 
of  his  piety,  temper,  and  conduct.  With  exemplary  devotedness  and 
zeal  he  has  laboured  in  my  plan,  and  his  ministry  has  everywhere 
been  accompanied  with  the  converting  power  of  divine  grace.  His 
stcdfast  faith,  his  ardent  and  exalted  zeal  and  singleness  of  heart, 
and  his  superior  merits  and  talents,  qualify  him  for  occupying  a  distin- 
guished place  amongst  the  preachers  of  the  Gospel.  Actuated,  I  trust, 
by  the  noblest  motives  by  which  the  human  mind  can  be  swayed,  ho 
has  devoted  himself  to  the  work  of  the  ministry  ;  and  with  the  enjoy- 
ment of  the  approbation  of  his  great  Master,  which  will  ever  be  his  best 
and  highest  reward,  may  he  see  also  the  accomplishment  of  his  heart's 
desire — the  conversion  of  souls  to  God  and  Christ 

"  With  respect  to  the  work  amongst  us,  of  which  you  seem  anxious 
to  be  informed,  I  have  the  pleasure  to  tell  you  it  is  very  generally  on 
the  increase  :  and  very  nuiny  in  the  large  towns  where  I  have  chapels 
have  felt  the  saving  efficacy  of  redeeming  love  and  tlie  quickening 
grace  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  The  Sun  of  righteousness  has  risen  in  many 
villogcs  and  country  places  with  healing  on  its  wings.  There  is  a 
trembling  and  shaking  among  the  dry  bones — siimers  are  enquiring  tho 
way  to  Zion  with  their  faces  thitherwards — multitudes  arc  a  living 
comment  upon  the  truths  which  they  believe — and  a  great  success 
which  bftth  attended  the  labours  of  tho  ministers  and  students  loudly 
X.  2 


308  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

proclaims,  that  tbo '  fields  are  white  already  to  tlie  Larvcst ;'  and  tlie 
Spirit  of  tlie  Lord  whispers  in  our  ears — *'  the  time  to  favour  Zion,  yea 
the  set  time  is  come.* 

"  It  affords  me  the  most  cordial  satisfaction  to  sec  a  goodly  number 
of  godly  young  men  offering  themselves  to  the  service  of  our  adorable 
Saviour,  of  whose  talents  and  piety  I  judge  most  favourably-  The 
school  of  the  prophets  at  my  beloved  Trevecca  affords  great  advantages 
to  young  men,  as  preparatory  to  the  work,  and  so  easy  of  access ;  but 
the  labourers  arc  still  few  and  the  harvest  plenteous.  In  private 
and  in  public,  my  dear  Sir,  unite  \\'ith  the  Israel  of  God  in  imploring 
the  Lord  of  the  harvest  more  copiously  to  pour  out  his  Spirit  on  the 
assemblies  of  his  saints,  powerfully  constraining  a  host  of  willing  la- 
bourers to  come  to  the  help  of  the  Lord  against  the  mighty. 

"  It  is  my  ardent  wish  and  prayer  to  God,  that  you  may  be  enabled 
to  press  forward  with  increasing  ardour  in  the  glorious  cause.  You 
arc  a  living  witness  that  Jesus  Chiist  has  power  to  forgive  and  to  sub- 
due sin.  Glory  to  God!  Take  heed  unto  yourself  and  unto  your 
doctrines  ;  continue  in  them,  for  in  doing  this,  through  the  divine  bless- 
ing, you  shall  both  save  yourself,  and  them  that  hear  you  Sabbath  after 
Sabbath,  and  from  day  to  day  rehearse  to  your  people  and  to  all  you 
can  collect  together,  tlie  joyful  tidings  which  the  Gospel  proclaims. 
Persuaded  that  you  are  connected  with  many  wrestling  souls,  I  cannot 
conclude  without  proffering  to  them  and  you  an  earnest  request  for 
my  unworthy  self  and  those  devoted  souls  who  serve  God  in  the 
Gospel  of  his  Son — '  Pray  for  us.'  That  you  may  be  wise  to  win 
souls,  and  may  have  many  who  shall  be  your  joy  and  crown  when 
the  chief  Shepherd  of  the  sheep  shall  appear,  is  the  earnest  and 
affectionate  prayer  of,  my  dear  Sir,  your  sincere  friend  and  well-wisher 
in  Christ, 

"  S.  Huntingdon." 

During  Lady  Huntingdon's  visit  to  York,  (with  Mr.  White- 
field,  Mr.  Madan,  Mr.  Venn,  Captain  Scott,  &c.)  before  alluded 
to,  a  site  for  a  chapel  was  selected.  It  was  in  College-street, 
so  called  from  the  relimous  brotherhood  of  the  Collegiate 
Church  of  St.  Wilfrid.  This  chapel  was  regularly  supplied  by 
the  students  of  Trevecca  until  1779,  when  the  Rev.  W.  Wren 
was  invited  from  Lincolnshire,  by  Lady  Huntingdon,  to  fill  the 
place  of  the  student  then  on  the  spot,  who  happened  to  be  ill. 
He  preached  his  first  sermon  from  Peter's  question  to  Cornelius, 
— *'  I  ask,  therefore,  for  what  intent  you  have  sent  for  me  ?^' 
His  services  were  most  acceptable ;  and  such  was  his  contempt 
of  labour,  and  zeal  for  the  calling  of  perishing  sinners  to  Christ, 
that  while  filling  this  cure  of  souls,  he  contrived  to  raise  and 
maintain  a  congregation  at  Barrow,  first  in  a  barn,  and  afterwards 

♦  Mr.  Wren's  original  scene  of  duty  was  in  Wales,  and  it  was  because  his 
health  appeared  to  have  sunk  beneath  his  labours  there  that  her  Ladyship  re- 
commended a  tour  in   England,    **  Now,  Wren  (says  the  Countess),  I  charge 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF    HUNTINGDOX.  309 

in  a  chapel  built  for  that  purpose.*  The  following  letter  from 
Lady  Huntingdon  exhibits  her  Ladyship's  estimate  of  the  de- 
votedness  of  Mr.  Wren  in  his  new  sphere  of  duty. 

"  I  have  a  letter  from  Mr.  Hubback*  tliat  has  occasioned  my 
heart  to  rejoice,  that  our  gracious  Lord  appears  for  3'our  labours  in 
York.  Go  on,  my  good  young  man,  as  oue  faithfully  devoted  to  his 
blessed  service,  and  fear  neither  men  nor  devils.  I  have  experienced 
his  continued  mercies  for  more  than  forty  years,  in  the  midst  of  con  * 
tempt,  malice,  persecution  without  the  Church  ;  and  false  brethren, 
treachery,  ingratitude,  and  greater  evils  than  in  the  world,  within  the 
professing  Church ;  yet,  no  weapon  formed  against  me  has  prospered. 
I  can,  therefore,  in  the  confidence  of  a  faithful  friend  to  you,  speak 
good  of  our  King  of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords.  And  for  ever  blessed 
be  his  glorious  name^  the  Gospel  is  flourishing  and  spreading  from  east 
to  west,  from  north  to  south,  under  our  poor  unwortliy  labours,  and 
this,  while  we  are  testifying  that  Jesits  is  exalted  as  a  Prince  and  a 
Saviour y  to  graiit  repentance  and  remission  of  sins,  Mercy  is  our 
only  joy  that  will  ever  last.  Its  praises  will  be  sounded  in  the  courts 
of  heaven  by  the  redeemed  to  all  eternity  ;  and  hi  this  exercise  I  would 
fain  be  foremost  to  glorify  that  mercy  which  could  save  such  a  poor, 
lost,  sinful  soul  as  mine.  While  tlie  Lord  seems  to  bless  you,  I  nope 
you  will  not  think  of  stirring.  Let  me  know  when  you  think  your 
message  is  over  at  York,  that  I  may  have  time  to  appoint  a  suitable 
student  in  your  place.     I  have  a  letter  from  the  people  you  mention 

you  to  be  faithful,  and  to  deliver  a  faithful  message  in  all  the  congpregations.** 
"  My  Lady  (said  Wren)  they  will  not  bear  it."  She  rejoined  "  I  will  stand  by 
you.*'  ills  tour  was  markea  by  the  seal  of  utility,  esueciaUy  at  Oxford  and  at 
Grimsby,  where,  being  overtaken  by  a  shower  of  rain,  he  took  shelter  in  a  way- 
side house,  in  which  many  labourers  had  assembled  to  take  refuge  from  the  rain. 
Hearing  them  swear,  he  went  out  of  the  parlour  to  them,  and  upon  the  promise 
of  giving  them  half-a-csown,  obtained  their  attention  while  he  read  two  ser- 
mons to  them,  and  spoke  urgently  as  to  the  state  of  their  souls.  On  his  return, 
he  found  that  two  of  these  men  had,  by  his  means,  been  awakened  to  a  due 
sense  of  their  eternal  interests.  He  was  invited  to  remain  at  York,  which 
Lady  Huntingdon  not  approving,  he  withdrew  from  the  Connexion  of  his  noble 
patroness  in  the  year  1780.  On  the  4th  August,  1784,  in  bis  34th  year,  he  fell 
asleep  in  the  Lord.  He  died  at  Scarborough,  but  was  buried  at  York,  in  the 
chapel  which  Mr.  Batty  built,  and  where  he,  too,  was  interred. 

In  his  doctrine,  Mr.  Wren  was  strictly  Calvinistic.  His  manner  of  preaching 
was  warm  and  fervid,  and  but  that  his  voice  was  sometimes  pitched  too  loudly, 
he  might  have  been  called  an  orator  of  nature's  making.  Seeing  the  people 
inattentive  to  one  of  his  unprepared  discourses,  be  hastuy  descended  from  the 
pulpit,  and  walking  rapidljr  towards  that  part  of  the  congregation  that  betrayed 
neglect,  addressed  them  with  the  Spirit  and  ivith  power,  and  the  Lord  blessed 
the  word.  In  Wales,  hearing  of  the  reputed  efficacy  of  St.  Covin's  well  in  the 
cure  of  bodily  diseases,  be  resolved  to  carry  thither  his  medicines  for  the  bruised 
Spirit.  The  Welsh  Betbsaida  stands  at  the  foot  of  immense  rocks,  quite  open 
to  the  sea,  and  far  from  any  town.  Multitudes  assembled  in  so  strange  a  scene 
whom  he  addressed  from  the  words,  "  Rocks  full  on  us,**  &c.  Rev.  vi.  16,  17* 
One  man  who  had  opposed  the  dedication  of  a  place  of  worship,  was  convinced, 
and  immediately  appropriated  the  place  to  its  purpose. 

*  A  respectable  surgeon  with  whom  Mr,  Wren  resided  till  bis  marriage. 


310  TH£  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

at  Barrow.  I  hare  many  heart-aching  prayers,  occasioned  hy  the  calls 
I  have,  from  tlic  fields  heing  M'hite  unto  the  harvest  and  the  lahourers 
80  few.  Alas !  some  past  days  make  me  ready  to  weep,  to  find  that 
any  poor  thirsty  souls  want  the  waters  of  life,  and  that  there  shoold 
be  no  ministration  of  them  through  the  want  of  a  poor  earthen  vessel 
to  convey  them  hy.  Pray,  pray  in  private,  pray  in  public,  that  our 
gracious  Lord  of  the  harvest  would  thrust  out  labourers.  We  find 
none  willing  but  such  as  he  makes  so  for  his  work.  There  are  many 
willing  for  their  own  work,  who  say, '  Lord !  Lord  !*  hut  he  knows  them 
not.  I  have  reason  to  praise  him  for  his  tender  mercies  ;  the  deaths  of 
many,  in  various  parts  of  our  Connexion,  would  revive  the  most  droop- 
ing hearts.  And  now  I  faithfully  commend  you  to  the  love,  protec- 
tion, and  guidance  of  Him  who  is  able  to  make  you  wise  in  all  that  is 
good,  and  to  preserve  you  blameless  to  the  day  of  his  appearing.  In 
these  prayers  for  you,  I,  as  ever,  remain,  your  never-ceasing  friend,  for 
the  Lord  Christ's  sake,  "  S.  Huntingdon." 

*'  Spafields,  January  4,  1 780. 

The  chapel  at  York  continued  to  be  served  by  students  from 
Trevecca,  in  rotation.  In  the  summer  of  1781,  the  Rev.  Cra- 
dock  Glascott,  on  his  tour  through  the  north  of  England,  visited 
York,  and  preached  twice  in  her  Ladyship's  chapel  there  At 
Leeds,  at  Kirkburton,  at  Almondbury,  at  Rotherham,  and  at 
other  places,  he  also  preached  to  the  people  assembled  at  fune- 
rals, &c.,  as  well  as  in  the  churches,  with  great  effect :  his  intro- 
duction ever}'where  being  the  name  of  Lady  Huntingdon.  In 
the  summer  of  1 785,  Air.  Wills  visited  York.  At  Bradford, 
Mr.  Cross  offered  him  the  church  of  which  he  was  vicar,  but 
Mr.  Wills,  fearing  to  involve  him  in  any  difficulty  with  his  dio- 
cesan, declined  the  offer.  At  Leeds,  he  preached  in  the  White 
Chapel,  formerly  be[onging  to  the  Rev.  Mr.  Edwards,  and  lately 
supplied  by  one  of  Lady  Huntingdon's  senior  students,  the  Rev. 
Eaward  Parsons.  At  Heckmondwick,  he  preached  in  the  rain 
to  several  hundred  people,  including  his  old  College  friend,  Mr. 
Rowley,  and  seven  or  eight  other  ministers  of  the  Establishment, 
and  of  other  creeds.  At  Wakefield  he  preached  in  Mr.  Bruce's 
academy,  one  day ;  on  another,  on  Hunslet  Common.  At  York 
he  preached,  one  evening  in  the  chapel,  and  the  next  at  the 
Market  Cross ;  several  of  the  better  sort  listened  from  their 
windows  to  his  testimony,  and  though  the  bells  of  a  neighbour- 
ing church  were  kept  ringing  the  multitude  held  on  and  profited. 
In  1794  Mr.  Wydown  visited  York.  He  was  of  Ladv  Hun- 
tingdon's Connexion,  and  worshipped  for  some  time  in  College- 
street,  but  on  the  28th  Dec.  1796,  his  increased  congregation 
built  him  a  separate  chapel,  which  was  opened  by  the  Rev.  E. 
Parsons,  qf  tree4s,  and  the  Pev.  H.  Howell,  of  Knaresborough. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OP  HUNTINGDON.  311 

The  congregation  soon  formed  itself  into  an  Independent  Church, 
and  on  the  18th  April,  1797,  Mr.  Wydown  was  ordained  pastor. 
We  have  thus  brought  to  a  close  the  history  of  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon's exertions  in  Yorkshire,  and  may  conclude  the  present 
chapter  by  recording  the  names  of  her  ministers  who  remained 
in  that  county.  Mr.  Parsons  settled  at  Leeds ;  Mr.  Povah,  Mr. 
Bryan,  Mr.  Parish,  and  Mr.  Dawson,  at  Sheffield ;  Mr.  Barnard, 
Mr.  Arbor,  and  Mr.  Morley,  at  Hull ;  Mr.  Mather,  at  Beverley; 
and  Mr.  Beard,  at  Scarborough. 


CHAPTER  XIX. 


Death  of  the  Hon.  Henry  Haatings — Lady  Huntingdon's  exertions  at  Brighton 
-Joseph  Wall— Mr.  Whitefield*s  first  visit  to  Brighton — Lady  Huntingdon 

seUs  her  jewels — The  Chapel  opened  by  Mr.  Madan — Mr.   Romaine Oat- 

hall — Captain  Scott — Anecdotes^Old  Abraham—Letters  from  Mr.  Fletcher 
and  Mr.  Romaine — Christian  Perfection^-Mr.  Mazfieldand  Mr.  BelL^Letter 
from  Mr.  Romaine — Mr.  Madan— .Letters  from  Messrs.  Berridge,  Romaine, 
and  Venn — Mr.  Jones  (of  St  Saviour's). 

The  Hon.  Henry  Hastings,  fourth  son  of  the  Countess  of  Hun- 
tingdon, was  bom  December  12,  1739,  and  departed  this  life 
at  Brighton,  September  IS,  1757,  aged  eighteen.  The  only 
record  of  this  event  is  found  in  the  following  extract  from  a 
letter  of  Mr.  Wbitefield  to  Lady  Huntingdon  : — 

^'  I  burnt,  but  I  believe  I  shall  never  forget,  the  contents  of  your 
Ladysbip^s  letter.  Who  but  the  Redeemer  himself  can  possibly  de- 
scribe the  yearnings  of  such  a  tender  parent's  heart  ?  Surely  your 
Ladyship  is  called  to  cut  off  a  right  band  and  pluck  out  a  right  eye ; 
^  but  it  is  the  Lord,  let  him  do  what  seemeth  him  good*  This  was  the 
language  of  Eli^  whose  sons  were  sinners  before  the  Lord  exceedingly. 
This  bath  often  been  the  case  with  the  best  of  people  and  the  greatest 
favourites  of  heaven ;  but  none  know  the  bitterness  of  such  a  cup 
but  those  who  are  called  to  drink  it  If  not  sweetened  with  a  sense 
of  the  love  and  mercy  of  God  in  Christ,  wh«  could  abide  it  ?  0 !  what 
physic,  what  strong  physic,  do  our  strong  affecUons  oblige  our  heavenly 
Father  to  give  us !  What  pruning  knives  do  these  luxuriant  branches 
require,  in  order  to  preserve  the  fruit  and  delicacy  of  the  vine  ?  Blessed 
be  God,  there  is  a  time  coming,  when  these  mysterious  dignified  pro- 
vidences shall  be  explained.  1  am  glad  Mr.  L.  is  with  your  Lady- 
ship ;  he  has  a  friendly  heart.  May  the  Lord  Jesus  raise  up  your 
Ladyship  many  comforters !  Above  aU,  may  he  come  himself.  He 
will--^he  will !    0 1  that  I  could  bear  your  heavy  loa4  i    9ut  I  can 


312  THE  LIFE  AVD  TIMES  OP 

only  in  mv  feeble  wav  bear  it  on  mv  heart,  before  him  who  came  to 
heal  our  sicknesses  and  bear  our  infirmities.  That  your  Ladyship 
may  come  out  of  these  fiery  trials,  purged  and  purified  like  the  brightest 
gold,  is  the  earnest  prayer  of,  ever  honoured  madam,  your  most  dutiful, 
obhged,  sympathizing,  and  eyer  ready  servant  for  Christ's  sake, 

"  G.  Whitbfield." 

The  illness  of  her  son  had  brought  the  Countess  from  her 
house  in  Park-street  to  Brighton,  where  during  her  stay,  she 
felt  seriously  concerned  for  the  spiritual  interests  of  its  inhabi- 
tants, and  especially  for  the  company  that  frequented  that  place 
of  fashionable  resort,  and  used  her  utmost  exertions  to  bestow 
upon  them  some  spiritual  gift,  by  carrying  to  the  houses  of  the 
nobility  and  the  poor  the  welcome  tidings  of  salvation  through 
faith  in  a  crucified  Redeemer. 

In  the  course  of  her  ever-frequent  visits  of  mercy  and  benevo- 
lence at  Brighton,  she  entered  the  lodrinffs  of  a  soldier's  wife 
who  had  been  delivered  of  twins ;  and  having  first  relieved  the 
temporal  wants  of  the  poor  woman,  conversed  with  her  on  spiri- 
tual   subjects,  afiectionately  pointing  her    to  the  Fountain  of 
atoning  blood  opened  in  the  clefts  of  the  "  Rock  of  Ages ;" 
in  the  performance  of  this  duty,  her  Ladyshij)  displayed  an  ad- 
mirable mixture  of  discretion  and  zeal,  solemnity  and  sweetness, 
and  no  sooner  did  she  begin  to  speak  of  her  a^^ful  state,  by 
nature  and  by  practice,  and  the  imminent  danger  of  her  soul,  if 
she  died  unpardoned,  unrenewed,  unwashed  in  the  Saviour's 
blood,  than  tne  poor  soldier's  wife  burst  into  a  flood  of  tears 
under  a  sense  of  her  guilt  and  misery,  and  began  to  call  on  the 
Lord  with  all  the  earnestness  of  which  her  dying  frame  was 
capable ;  and  manifesting  an  anxious  desire  to  hear  more  of  that 
precious  salvation  which  is  provided  for  the  guilty  and  the  lost, 
she  induced  the  Countess  to  repeat  her  visits.     The  apartment 
was  contiguous  to  a  public  bakenouse,  and  the  people  that  came 
to  the  oven  heard  through  a  crack  in  the  partition,  her  Lady- 
ship conversing  on  spiritual  subjects.     This  soon  became  noised 
abroad,  and  other  poor  women,  feeling  a  desire  to  hear  such 
things,  attended  at  the  lodgings  of  the  soldier's  wife  at  appointed 
times  for  that  purpose.     Her  usual  method  was  to  converse 
with  them  about  the  one  thing  needful,  to  read  and  expound  the 
Scriptures,  and  to  pray  with  them.     In  a  little  time  the  number 
of  her  hearers  increased,  and  as  often  as  they  could  be  collected 
she  joj-fully  proclaimed  to  them  the  unsearchable   riches   of 
Christ.     The  affectionate  and  fervent  manner  in  which  she  ad- 
dressed them,  was  an  affecting  proof  of  the  interest  she  took  in 
their  spiritual  concerns.     There  was  an  energy  in  her  manner 
that  was  irresistible.     Her  subject — her  language — her  ges- 


SELINAf  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  313 

tures — the  tone  of  her  voice — ^and  the  turn  of  her  countenance, 
all  conspired  to  fix  the  attention  and  affect  the  heart. 

On  one  of  these  occasions,  a  blacksmith  named  Joseph  Wall, 
a  man  notorious  for  his  profligacy  having  been  directed  to  the 

Elace  of  meeting,  obtained  admittance,  though  none  but  females 
ad  hitherto  attended.  Lady  Huntingdon  coming  in,  felt  much 
surprise  at  seeing  him  in  a  corner  of  the  room,  and  hesitated  in 
her  mind  whether  to  request  him  to  withdraw,  or  to  refrain  from 
speaking  to  him.  At  length  she  determined  to  take  no  notice 
of  him,  and  to  proceed  in  her  usual  course,  (which  she  con- 
sidered was  the  path  of  duty)  by  pra\'ing  with  these  pioor 
women,  and  setting  before  them  the  "  things  which  accompany 
salvation."  The  word  thus  spoken  was  applied  by  the  power  of 
the  Holy  Spirit  to  the  heart  of  Joseph  Wall,  and  from  that 
time  he  became  a  distinguished  monument  of  the  power  of 
divine  grace,  so  that  all  who  knew  him  were  constrained  to  ac- 
knowledge the  marvellous  change.  For  a  period  of  twenty-nine 
1  rears  he  adorned  the  doctrine  of  God  bis  Saviour  by  a  life  of 
loliness,  and  through  every  period  of  his  religious  life  appeared 
as  a  pilgrim  and  stranger  m  the  world.  He  told  a  friend,  a  day 
or  two  before  his  departure  for  glory,  "  that  he  longed  to  be 
dissolved,  that  he  was  very  happy — had  not  a  doubt  of  his  salva- 
tion, and  would  not  change  his  state  with  the  king."  About 
two  hours  before  he  expired,  every  breath  appearing  as  though  it 
would  be  the  last,  his  lips  were  observed  to  move,  and  his  anxi- 
ous and  affectionate  daughter,  bending  her  head,  heard  hini 
slowly  but  distinctly  utter — "  Come,  Lora  Jesus !  come  quickly  I" 
The  Great  Shepherd  of  the  people  heard  and  answered  his 
prayer,  and  took  him  to  the  heavenly  fold  the  latter  end  of 
June,  1786. 

While  the  Countess  was  thus  usefully  and  actively  engaged,  a 
gentlewoman  who  lived  in  the  vicinity  of  Brighton,  dreamed 
that  a  tall  lady,  whose  dress  she  particularly  noticed,  would  come 
to  that  town,  and  be  the  means  of  doing  much  good.  It  was 
about  three  years  after  this  dream,  that  Lady  Huntingdon  went 
down  thither.  One  day  the  above  person  met  her  Ladyship  in 
the  street,  and  on  seeing  her,  exclaimed,  "  O,  Madam,  yon  are 
come  !"  Lady  Huntingdon,  surprised  at  the  singularity  of  such 
an  address  from  an  entire  stranger,  thought  at  first  the  woman 
was  deranged.  "  What  do  you  know  of  me  ?"  asked  the  Coun- 
tess. "  Madam  (replied  tne  person),  I  saw  you  in  a  dream 
three  years  ago,  dressed  just  as  you  appear  now," — and  related 
the  whole  of  the  dream  to  her.  In  consequence  of  the  acquaint- 
ance which  was  then  formed  between  them,  Lady  Huntingdon 


314  THE  Lm  AND  TIBfSS  OF 

was  made  instrumental  in  her  conversion|-and  she  died  about  a 
year  afterwards  in  the  confidence  of  £adth. 

It  was  thus  that  her  zeal  and  piety  prepared  the  way  for  the 
more  public  ministrations  of  Mr.  Whitefieid,  who  visited  Brigh- 
ton in  the  year  1759,  and  at  first  preached  under  a  tree  in  a 
field  behind  the  White  Lion  Inn.* 

The  awakened  people  began  to  increase  in  numbers,  and  a 
small  Christian  society  was  afterwards  established,  whose  mem- 
bers met  for  prayer  and  praise,  and  the  reading  of  the  Scriptures. 
This  promising  state  of  things  induced  Lady  Huutingaon  to 
erect  a  small  but  neat  chapel  contiguous  to  ner  house,  on  the 
site  of  the  present  one  in  North-street,  the  expense  of  which 
she  either  wnolly,  or  in  part,  defrayed  by  the  sale  of  her  jewels, 
to  the  amount  of  six  hundred  and  ninety-eight  pounds  fifteen 
shillings.f 

The  chapel  was  opened  in  the  summer  of  1761,  by  the  Rev. 
Martin  Madan.  To  Mr.  Madan  succeeded  Messrs.  Romaine, 
Berridge,  Venn,  and  Fletcher,  who  severally  took  the  charge  olF 
a  congregation  and  people  for  whom  they  soon  learned  to  culti- 
vate the  sincerest  affection.  Instant  in  season  and  out  of  sea- 
son, these  apostolic  men  diligently  performed  the  work  of 
evangelists,  and  lost  no  opportunity  of  proclaiming  the  unsearch- 
able riches  of  Christ.  Here,  as  in  other  places,  they  laboured 
together  for  the  welfare  of  the  Church  of  God ;  and  as  they 
worshipped  often  together  in  the  courts  below,  they  are  now 
doubtless  worshipping  in  the  courts  above,  and  enjoying  the 

*  Among  his  then  congregation,  was  the  late  Mr.  Tuppen,  predecessor  of 
Mr.  Jay  at  Bath.  He  was  brought  up  by  a  pious  mother  in  strict  observance 
of  the  externals  of  relip^on,  but  at  eighteen  years  of  age,  when  he  first  heard 
Mr.  Whitefield,  he  was  ignorant  of  its  essentials.  He  attended  from  curiosity, 
ready  to  stone  this  second  Stephen,  or  to  hold  the  clothes  of  those  who  did ;  but 
the  words,  "  Turn  ye,  turn  ye,**  were  not  lost  upon  him,  but  became  the  means 
of  ffrace  to  his  soul. 

Another  convert  gained  on  this  spot  was  Mr.  Edward  Gadsb^,  who  was  now 
first  called  from  darkness  to  light :  during  his  after  life  he  resized  the  venera- 
ble Newton's  picture  of  a  true  saint ;  and  when  he  died  on  the  9th  April,[l785, 
the  Rev.  Cradock  Glasscott  preached  at  Lady  Huntingdon's  a  powerful  sermon, 
from  the  words — **  Mark  the  perfect  man  and  behold  the  upright ;  for  the  end 
of  that  man  is  peace.'* 

f  The  following  account  of  her  Ladyship's  jewels  sold  for  this  purpose  was 
found  amongst  the  papers  of  a  lady  who  had  resided  a  considerable  time  with 
her,  and  was  well  acquainted  with  her  concerns : — 

TwoI5X    drops £400  0  0 

Twenty-eight  18  X  2 90  0  0 

Thirty-seven  pearls,  at  £4  ISs.  each 175  15  0 

Seed  pf  arls 10  0  0 

Gold   box  23  0  0 

£696  15    0 


SELINA)  C0UNT18S  OF  RVNTINODON.  315 

felicity  of  those,  "  who,  having  turned  many  to  righteousness, 
shall  shine  as  the  stars  for  ever  and  ever." 

No  sooner  had  these  apostolic  men  unfolded  the  standard  of 
the  true  cross,  than  a  violent  clamour  was  raised  against  them 
and  their  doctrines ;  and  frequent  attempts  were  made  to  intimi- 
date them  from  preaching  and  teaching  Jesus  Christ.  But  re- 
gardless of  the  torrents  of  reproach  which  were  continuallv 
rolling  on  them  from  every  quarter,  they  prosecuted  their 
labours  in  the  most  undaunted  manner ;  and  the  Great  Head  of 
the  Church  bore  testimony  to  the  words  of  his  servants,  and  con- 
firmed it  by  awakening  and  converting  many  souls  under  their 
ministry.  If  God  will  work,  none  can  let  it ;  the  cause  is  his, 
and  he  must  and  will  conquer ;  and  any  instrument  is  sufficient, 
though  it  were  but  the  jaw-bone  of  an  ass,  when  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  comes  upon  the  appointed  Samson. 

The  connexion  of  Mr.  Romaine  with  the  Countess  of  Hun- 
tingdon, as  her  chaplain,  exhibits  the  interesting  picture  of  two 
characters  of  exalted  excellence  striving  together  for  the  hope 
of  the  Gospel — the  one  by  her  influence  and  wealth,  the  other 
by  his  zeal  and  diligence.  And,  to  the  honour  of  Mr.  Romaine, 
his  long  and  active  labours  were  without  the  least  expectation  of 
any  remuneration  ;  and  all  he  ever  got  from  Lady  Huntingdon 
barely  paid  his  journeys  and  his  expenses.  Notwithstanding 
the  basest  stories,  neither  he  nor  Mr.  Whitefield  were  ever  a  shoe- 
latchet  the  richer  for  any  service  done  her  Ladyship.  Not  that 
this  is  meant  to  impeach  her  boundless  liberality  :  never  perhaps 
did  mortal  make  a  nobler  use  of  what  she  possessed :  her  time, 
her  talents,  her  soul  and  body  were  consecrated  to  God.  She 
knew  that  it  was  laudable  to  feed  the  hungry  and  clothe  the 
naked :  but  all  inferior  considerations  seemed  to  be  lost  in  her 
superior  concern  for  the  everlasting  happiness  of  perishing 
mortals. 

*'  Never  (says  the  late  Rev.  John  Eyre,  one  of  her  senior  ministers) 
shall  I  lose  the  strong  impression  which  was  made  on  my  mind  in 
a  conversation  I  had  ^ith  her,  aboat  the  wants  of  a  family  who  ap- 
peared to  be  in  great  distress : — I  can  do  for  them  (said  she)  but  very 
little.  I  am  obliged  to  be  a  spectator  of  miseries  which  I  pity 
but  cannot  relieve.  For  when  I  gave  myself  up  to  the  Lord,  I  hke- 
wise  devoted  to  him  all  my  fortune  ;  with  this  i^eserve,  that  I  would 
take  with  a  sparing  hand  what  might  be  necessary  for  my  food  and 
raiment,  and  for  Uie  support  of  my  children,  should  they  live  to  be 
reduced.  I  was  led  to  this,  continued  she,  from  a  consideration,  that 
there  were  many  benevolent  persons  who  had  no  religion,  who  would 
feel  for  the  temporal  miseries  of  others,  and  help  them ;  but  few,  even 
among  professors,  who  had  a  proper  concern  for  the  awful  condition 
of  ignorant  and  perishing  souls.     What|  therefore,  I  can  save  for  a 


316  THE  LltE  AKD  TIMES  OF 

while  out  of  my  own  necessaries,  I  will  give  them ;  hut  more  I  dare 
not  take  without  heing  guilty  of  sacrilege/  " 

The  value  of  such  a  life  can  never  be  ascertained  till  the 
heavens  and  the  earth  be  no  more.  And  then,  when'temporal 
happiness  and  misery  shall  have  vanished  like  the  illusion  of  a 
dream,  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  will  be  thankful  that 
she  lived  so  long  the  faithful  servant  of  God,  and  the  happy 
instrument  of  their  conversion.  All  could  see  her  zeal  and 
her  devotion,  but  herself.  The  churches  of  Christ  honoured 
her  as  the  chief  of  saints,  but  she  always  confessed  herself  to  be 
the  chief  of  sinners.  Her  life  was  a  better  comment  than  all 
that  was  ever  written  by  expositors  on  those  words  of  Christ, 
"  Make  to  yourselves  friends  of  the  mammon  of  unrighteousness, 
that  when  ye  fail  they  may  receive  you  into  everlasting  habi- 
tations." What  an  innumerable  multitude,  who  had  never  seen 
her  face  in  the  flesh,  were  waiting  with  rapture  to  receive  her 
happy  spirit  into  mansions  of  everlasting  glory  ! 

Another  house  of  prayer  was  the  next  work  of  her  Ladyship's 
hands.  An  old  gentleman  of  the  name  of  Warden,  a  justice 
of  the  peace  for  the  county  of  Sussex,  a  man  well  known,  then 
occupied  the  mansion  of  Oathall,  which  had  formerly  belonged 
to  a  branch  of  the  house  of  Shirley,*  from  which  her  Ladyship 
descended.  Hearing  of  her  wish  to  carry  the  Gospel  into  the 
wilds  of  Sussex,  he  waited  on  her  at  Brighton,  and  offered  to 
let  her  the  house  for  a  term  of  years  for  the  very  purpose  she 
meditated.  The  agreement  was  immediately  adjusted,  she 
entered  upon  the  premises — fitted  up  a  large  hall  for  the  chapel, 

•  Sir  Anthony  Shirley,  the  original  proprietor  of  Oathall,  was  one  of  the 
gallant  adventurers  who  went  to  annoy  the  Spaniards  in  their  settlements  in  the 
West  Indies.  He  afterwards  travelled  to  Persia,  and  retunied  to  England  in 
the  quality  of  Ambassador  from  the  Sophi,  when  he  published  an  account 
of  his  travels.  The  Emperor  of  Germany  raised  him  to  the  dignity  of  a  Count, 
and  the  King  of  Spain  made  him  Admiral  of  the  Levant  Sea.  He  died  in  Spain. 
A  spirit  of  adventure  ran  through  the  family  of  the  Shirleys.  Sir  Anthony 
had  two  brothers,  who  were  noted  adventurers.  Sir  Francis,  the  elder 
brother,  was  unfortunate.  Sir  Robert  was  introduced  to  the  Persian  Court 
by  his  brother.  Sir  Anthony,  and  was  also  sent  Ambassador  from  the  Sophi 
to  the  Court  of  England.  According  to  some  accounts,  he  married  a  near 
relation  of  the  Sophi  of  Persia ;  according  to  others,  a  Circassian.  Lady 
Shirley  was  confirmed  in  England,  to  whom  the  Queen  stood  godmother  and 
Prince  Henry  godfather.  Her  portrait  was  painted  by  Vandyck,  from  which 
a  print  was  taken,  that  is  now  very  scarce. 

William  Shirley,  of  Oathall,  emigrated  to  America,  and  was  Governor  of  the 
province  of  Massachusetts  Ray  and  of  the  Bahama  Islands.  He  visited  England 
in  1760,  where  he  remained  some  years,  but  returned  to  America,  where  he 
died  in  1771.  His  only  surviving  son  was  Governor  of  the  Leeward  Islands, 
a  Major  General  in  the  army.  He  was  created  a  Baronet  in  1786.  His  son 
was  named  Sir  William  Wtirden  Shirley,  on  whose  death,  in  1815,  the  title 
became  extinct. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  317 

and  furnished  the  upper  rooms  for  her  own  residence,  and  for  the 
ministers  she  brought  with  her.  There  Messrs.  Romaine,  Venn, 
Madan,  Berridge,  Shirley,  Townsend,  Toplady,  and  Haweis, 
with  many  others,  yielded  their  services,  and  there  were  they 
blessed  with  some  singular  tokens  of  divine  favour  among 
a  people  in  whom  much  of  the  simplicity  of  the  Gospel  was 
apparent. 

Captain  Scott,  son  of  Richard  Scott,  Esq.,  of  Betton,  in  the 
county  of  Salop,  an  ancient  and  highly  respectable  family, 
having  received  a  polite  education,  embraced  the  profession  of 
arms  m  his'  seventeenth  year.  He  began  his  military  career  as 
cornet,  and  was  promoted  to  the  rank  of  Captain  in  the  7th 
regiment  of  dragoons.  He  was  present  at  the  famous  battle 
fought  near  Mindcn,  on  the  first  August,  1759,  attached  to 
the  cavalry  of  the  right  wing,  commanded  by  Lord  George 
Sackville. 

The  danger  to  which,  as  a  soldier,  he  was  exposed,  was 
seriously  impressed  upon  his  mind.  This  led  to  a  train  of 
thought  and  a  succession  of  resolutions,  which  appear  to  have 
been  preparatory  to  his  acquiring  self-knowledge,  to  his  recep- 
tion of  the  Gospel,  and  which  eventually  led  to  the  conversion 
of  his  soul. 

It  was  daily  his  practice,  (though  felt  as  a  toilsome  duty,)  to 
read  the  psalms  and  lessons  of  the  day ;  a  practice  well  known 
to  his  brother  officers :  but  as  his  conduct   in  other  respects 
conformed  to  theirs,  they  gave  him  no  opposition,  but  were  used 
pleasantly  to  ask  him,   "  Well  Scott,  have  you  read  your  psalms 
and  lessons  to  day?"     But  while  he  continued  to  sliive  to  make 
himself  righteous  by  his  own  works,  he  necessarily  laboured  in 
vain.     Happening  to  be  quartered  somewhere  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  Oathall,  and  being  out  on  a  shooting  party,  he  was 
driven  by  a  storm  for  cover  to  the  house  of  a  farmer,  with  whom 
some  horses  of  the  regiment  were  at  grass.     There  he  found 
several  labourers  who  had  taken  shelter  in  the  same  cottage. 
The  farmer  being  a  pious  man,  and  Captain  Scott  happening  at 
this  time  to  be  m  one  of  his  "  religious  fits,"  as  he  was  accus- 
tomed to  call  his  periods  of  good  resolution,  he  entered  into 
conversation,  and  heard  them  speak  on  divine  subjects  in  a  way 
that  astonished  him.      This   naturally  produced  the  enquiry, 
where  they  had  collected  their  information,  and  the  sentiments 
they  expressed ;  they  told  him  at  the  hall  yonder,  where  there 
was  now  a  very  famous  man,  a  Mr.  Romaine,  preaching  for 
Lady  Huntingdon,  and  they  importunately  invited  him  to  come 
and  hear  for  himself.     This  he  determined  to  do  the  following 
Sunday.    Thither  he  accordingly  repaired ;  and  he  was  par- 


318  THE  UFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

ticularly  struck  with  the  neatness  and  solemnity  which  pervaded 
the  congregation,  as  well  as  with  the  impressive  manner  in  which 
the  service  was  conducted.  Mr,  Romaine  preached  on  our 
Lord's  words,  in  John  xiv.  6. — "  /  am  the  tcay"  The  truth 
then  delivered  was  exactly  suited  to  the  case  of  Captain  Scott; 
and  God,  who  in  his  good  providence  had  brought  him  to  hear 
it,  by  the  power  of  his  grace,  made  it  effectual  to  the  everlasting 
benefit  of  Iiis  soul.  From  that  time  the  happy  chance  com- 
menced for  which  hundreds  have  since  had  reason  to  bless  God, 
who  have  been  called  under  his  ministry. 

He  continued  a  soldier,  but  his  altered  conduct  exposed  him 
to  many  annoyances  in  the  army:  and  as  he  was  marching 
through  Leicester  with  his  regiment,  he  opened  his  commission 
as  a  minister  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  A  pious  person,  to 
whom  he  was  introduced,  having,  probably,  been  infonned  of 
his  usefulness  in  holding  meetings  with  some  of  the  men  of  his 
regiment,  put  him  into  a  parlour,  and  left  him  with  no  other 
company  but  a  Bible,  a  Hymn-book,  and  his  God,  telling  him 
that  he  must  preach  there  that  evening.  He  complied  with  the 
earnest  request,  and  thus  entered  into  that  work  to  which  tlie 
Great  Head  of  the  Church  had  chosen  him,  and  in  which  he 
honoured  him  with  abundant  success. 

Having  put  his  hand  to  the  plough  he  never  turned  back,  but 

|)reached  in  his  regimentals  wherever  he  was  stationed.     Mr. 
Fletcher,  in  a  letter  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  says — 

*'  I  went  last  Monday  to  meet  Captain  Scott,  one  of  the  fruits  that 
have  grown  for  the  Lord  at  Oathall — a  caj)tain  of  the  truth-:- a  bold 
soldier  of  Jesus  Christ  God  hath  thrown  down  before  him  the  mid- 
dle wall  of  bigotry,  and  he  boldly  launches  into  an  irregular  usefulness. 
For  some  months  he  has  exhorted  his  dragoons  daily ;  for  some 
weeks  he  hath  preached  publicly  at  Leicester  in  the  Methodist  meet- 
ing-house, in  his  regimentals,  to  numerous  congregations,  with  good 
success.  The  stiff  regular  ones  pursue  him  with  hue  and  cry,  but  I 
believe  he  is  quite  beyond  their  reach.  God  keep  him  zealous  and 
simple  !  I  believe  this  red  coat  will  shame  many  a  black  one.  I  am 
sure  he  shames  me." 

In  a  subsequent  letter  she  adds : — 

''  Captain  Scott  set  out  last  Monday  for  York,  after  making  a  great 
stir  for  good  in  Shrewsbury — he  hath  been  a  prophet  to  several  in  his 
own  country." 

Mr.  Whitefield  gave  some  account  of  him  in  the  Tabernacle 
pulpit,  and  said — 

'^  I  have  invited  the  Ca])taiu  to  come  to  London,  and  brin^  hia  ar- 
tillery taTabemacle-ramport,  and  try  what  execution  he  can  do  here.'* 


SfeLINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  319 

He  was  one  of  the  supplies  there  for  upwards  of  twenty  years ; 
and,  it  should  be  noticed,  to  the  praise  of  Mr.  Romaine's  liber- 
ality, that  he  not  only  gave  him  encouragement  to  preach,  but 
was  particularly  active  in  bringing  him  to  that  place.  A  tre- 
mendous storm  of  thunder  and  liglitning,  which  took  place  as  he 
was  entering  London,  was  construed  him  as  a  probable  indi- 
cation of  the  divine  displeasure,  and  caused  him  to  fear  that  the 
case  of  the  old  prophet  misleading  the  voung  one  was  exemplified 
in  his  present  circumstance.  He,  however,  persevered,  and 
came  to  the  Tabernacle,  where  an  immense  congregation  was 
assembled  to  hear  him ;  but  when  the  season  for  addressing 
them  arrived,  he  was  absorbed  in  tears,  and  his  utterance  com- 
pletely failed  him;  at  length  he  became  composed,  and  was 
enabled  to  deliver  his  message  in  a  manner  that  laid  the  founda- 
tion of  his  future  popularity  in  London. 

After  a  while  Captain  Scott  sold  his  commission,  and  quitted 
the  army  for  the  ministry  of  the  Gospel ;  and  thus  ended  all  the 
brilliant  views  of  military  rank  and  fame  to  which,  had  he  con- 
tinued in  the  army,  he  might  have  aspired.  He  was  well  quali- 
fied for  a  military  command.  His  mind  was  fertile,  his  appre- 
Isension  quick,  his  utterance  ready,  and  his  fortitude  great. 
The  way  to  wjorldl^  honour  was  open  before  him.  He  had  a 
prospect  of  obtainuig  what  was  once  the  object  of  his  highest 
ambition,  but  the  great  Sovereign  of  the  world  and  the  church 
had  destined  him  to  more  important  services  and  higher  honours 
than  any  that  mere  military  heroes  can  ever  perform  or  attain. 

Another  fruit  of  the  ministry  of  her  Ladyship's  chaplains  at 
Oathall  was  an  old  man,  called   Abraliam.     He  was  born  in 
Sussex ;  being  an  idle  youth,  he  enlisted  for  a  soldier,  and  after 
fifty  years'  service,   obtained  his  discharge,  and  with   his  wife 
settled   near  Oathall.     He  grew   serious,  sought  after   truth, 
attended  at  church,  and  not  quite  satisfied  with  what  he  heard 
at  home,  went  round  to  the  neighbouring  churches ;  but  what 
he  heard  seemed  very  unsatisfactory  and  contradictory  to  what 
the  Church  prayers  he  read  seemed  to  speak.     Uncertain  what 
was  truth,  he  roamed  about,  till  providentially  the  chapelo  pened 
by  Lady  Huntingdon  at  Oathall  awakened  attention  ;  and  though 
he  did  not  like  the  Methodists,  he  resolved  for  once  to  go  and 
hear.     He  was  then  just  a  hundred  years  oldy  but  still  hearty^ 
and  in  the  perfect  use   of  his   faculties.     Mr.   Venn   was  at 
that  time  with  Lady  Huntingdon,  and  preached  at  Oathall  the 
morning  old  Abraham  attended.     The  truth  struck  his  mind 
with  an  eridence  and  power  he  had  never  before  felt.   He  listened 
with  the  deepest  attention  and  delight ;  he  could  hardly  contain 
himself;  aod  as  $ooa  as  the  service  was  eoded^  be  laid  bis  band 


320  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

upon  the  shoulder  of  a  neighbour  who  was  next  him,  "  Ah  ! 
(says  he)  neighbour,  this  is  the  very  truth  of  God's  word,  which 
I  have  been  seeking,  and  never  heard  it  so  plain  before.  Here 
will  I  abide." 

From  that  day  his  conversation  bespoke  the  blessed  Spirit 
he  had  received.  He  spoke  of  that  day  as  the  day  of  his  birth, 
and  used  to  say  that  he  was  a  child  born  at  a  hundred  years  old. 
He  attended  all  the  ministers  whom  Lady  Huntingdon  sent,  and 
continued  to  make  happy  advances  in  knowledge  and  experience. 
His  age  and  white  head  made  him  very  distmguished,  and  his 
conversation  rendered  him  very  precious  to  all  tiie  serious  per- 
sons round  the  neighbourhood. 

One  day  Lady  Huntingdon  was  talking  with  him,  and  he  was 
giving  an  account  of  his  little  trials  to  ner : — "  Ah,  my  I^dy 
(says  he),  'tis  my  grief  that  my  old  partner  is  a  little  too  apt  to 
run  ahead  sometimes :  but  I  tell  ye  what  happened  the  other 
day,  when  that  remarkable  darkness  and  tempest  came  over  us 
here,  she  was  terribly  frightened,  and  thought  it  was  the  day  of 
judgment,  and  in  she  ran  with  an  old  gossip  of  hers,  who  was 
of  her  mind,  and  against  me,  and  down  they  fell  upon  their 
knees  upon  the  floor,  and  said  Abraham,  come  and  pray  for  us; 
so  said  I,  what  is  the  matter,  dame  ?  O,  said  she,  it  is  the  day  of 
judgment !  it  is  the  day  of  judgment !  ar'n't  you  afraid?  Afraid  ! 
no,  said  I,  what  should  I  be  afraid  of?     If  it  is  the  day  of  judg- 
ment, then  I  shall  see  Christ  Jesus  my  Lord,  and  that  will  be  a 
joyful  sight.    So,  my  LadV}  I  began  to  sing  a  hymn.    By  and  by 
the  storm  was  over,  and  then  they  both  forgot  the  fright  it  had 
put  them  in."     He  died  in  the  106th  year  of  his  age,  persever- 
mg  in  the   Christian  walk,  and  adorning  the  doctrine    of  our 
Saviour  in  all  thin^ ;  and  as  a  ripe  sheaf  in  the  day  of  hanest 
was  gathered  into  the  bosom  of  our  Saviour  in  peace  by  a  gentle 
dissolution,  old  and  full  of  days. 

The  summer  of  1762,  Lady  Huntingdon  spent  principally  in 
Yorkshire,  where  her  ever  active  spirit  was  engaged  in  forming 
fresh  plans  for  erecting  the  standard  of  Immanuel  "amongst  the 
thickest  ranks  of  his  enemies."  The  "little  cloud"  at  Brigh- 
ton, which  at  the  first  was  "  no  bigger  than  a  man's  hand," 
had  gradually  increased,  and  diff*used  such  a  copious  shower  of 
blessings  as  fertilised  the  hearts  of  many  in  that  part  of  the 
vineyard.  Anxious  that  the  progress  of  the  Gospel  should  still 
continue  to  increase,  that  the  banner  of  redeeming  love  should 
be  unfurled  wider,  and  the  sound  of  the  Gospel-trumpet  wax 
louder  and  louder  in  that  favoured  place,  she  continued  her 
exertions  in  procuring  suitable  supplies,  and  sought  the  aid  of 
those  apostohc  labourers  who  were  fired  with  zeal  for  their  Mas- 


SEHNA,  COUNTJESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  321 

ter's  honour,  to  convey  this  best  of  blessings  to  the  many  yet 
enveloped  in  the  shades  of  ignorance  and  perishing  for  lack  of 
knowledcre. 

Mr.  i  letcher  was  obliged  to  decline  her  Ladyship's  invitation 
as  will  be  seen  by  the  following  extract  from  a  letter,  dated 
Madely,  26th  July,  1762,  and  addressed  to  the  Countess  of 
Huntingdon,  Knaresborough,  Yorkshire.  "  I  humbly  thank  you 
for  your  obliging  invitation  to  wait  for  your  Ladyship  at  Bright- 
helmstone.  It  was  the  more  welcome  as  it  hath  removed  the 
fear  I  had  that  my  wish  was  presumptuous.  Hitherto  I  have 
been  closely  tied  to  my  parish  :  no  clergymen  choose  to  have 
any  intercourse  with  me,  and  I  have  not  yet  preached  out  of 
my  church.  Of  late,  blessed  be  the  precious  name  of  Jesus  for 
it,  the  work  deepens  in  the  hearts  of  those  that  have  been  con- 
vinced, and  I  begin  not  to  be  at  a  loss  for  the  company  of  some 
sincere  fellow-travellers  to  our  Jerusalem  above.  One  is  now 
entering  that  glorious  city  through  the  gate  of  death,  with  the 
steadiness  of  faith  and  the  joy  of  hope,  which  attended  dear 
Mr.  Jones*  in  his  lost  moments.  May  our  latter  end  be  like 
theirs." 

Mr.  Romaine  says — 

"  I  have  so  managed  my  matters  as  to  be  able  to  set  out  for  Briglit- 
lielmstone  on  Monday  morning  next :  and,  God  willing,  shall  stay  there 
till  Michaelmas.  0  I  join  your  prayers  with  ours,  that  the  Lord  of  the 
harvest  would  be  with  us,  and  bless  our  labours  in  this  part  of  his  Jjai*- 
vcst-field.  By  all  accounts  the  desires  of  the  people  are  very  pressing 
for  ray  coming  down  to  help  them,  which  I  hope  is  of  the  Lord's  doing, 
and  is  a  good  token  for  us.  But  be  that  as  it  will,  it  is  ours  to  sow  the 
seed,  to  rain  and  shine  upon  it  and  to  give  the  increase  is  God's  part. 
To  him  we  must  leave  it. 

"  I  should  be  glad  to  hear  from  your  Ladyship  about  any  part  of  my 
work  in  Brighthelmstone,  and  any  thing  you  would  have  me  to  do  rela- 
ting to  your  house  or  affairs  while  I  am  there.  It  would  be  a  pleasure 
to  me  to  hear  from  you.  I  am,  with  my  wishes  for  yours  and  Lady 
Selina*s  health,  your  faithful  friend  and  servant  for  the  Lord's  sake, 

"  August  21,  1762.  "  W.  Romaine. 

"  I  breakfasted  this  morning  with  Sir  Charles  Hotham,  who  is,  I 
think,  in  good  spirits,  and  all  his  fiiends.'' 

About  this  time  Mr.  Wesley's  doctrine  of  the  perfection  of 
the  Christian  character  was  taken  up  and  carried  to  extravagant 
enthusiasm  by  several  ministers,  of  whom  Mr.  Fletcher  speaks 
in  the  following  extract : — 

"  I  have  a  particular  regard  for  Maxfield  and  Bell ;  both  of  them  are 

*  The  apostolic  Griffith  Jones,  rector  of  Llandowrer,  in  Carmarthenshire. 
VOL.  I. — ^Y 


922  THE  LIFE  AKD  TIMES  OF 

my  correspondents,  I  am  strongly  prcjndiced  in  favour  of  the  iiiUics-> 
f.f:s,  urA  do  i;ot  willingly  reccire  w  hat  is  said  against  them  ;  but  allow- 
ing that  \rhat  U  rcjKirtcd  is  one  half  mere  exaggeration,  the  tenth  pert 
€>f  the  re^t  she  us  that  sjiirilnal  pride,  presumption,  arrogance,  stubborn- 
jie«>s,  j'tiTiy  spirit,  uncharitableness,  prophetic  mistakes — in  short,  that 
every  sinew  of  entliusiasm  is  now  at  work  in  many  of  that  body.  I 
<lo  not  credit  any  ones  bare  word,  but  I  ground  my  sentiments  on  Bell's 
own  letters. 

"  May  I  prestmie,  unasked,  to  lay  before  you  my  mite  of  obserration. 
If  I  had  it  in  my  power  to  overlook  the  matter,  as  you  have,  would  it 
lie  ^Tong  in  me  calmly  to  sit  down  \iith  some  unprejudiced  friends 
Mid  loTers  of  both  parties,  and  fix  with  them  the  marks  and  symptoms 
«  ;  enthusiasm ;  then  insist,  at  first  in  love,  and  aften^^ards  if  necessary, 
vith  all  the  weight  of  my  authority,  upon  those  who  have  tkem^  or 
ji^ead  for  them^  either  to  stand  to  the  sober  rule  of  Christianity,  or 
openly  to  depart  from  us  ?" 

Matters  every  day  became  more  desperate  ;  and  when  Mr. 
Maxfield  was  excludied  from  preaching  in  the  chapels  of  Mr. 
Wesley,  he  took  one  for  himself,  and  drew  away  several  hundreds 
of  the  society.  The  conduct  of  George  Bell  and  his  followers 
drew  great  odium  on  the  whole  body  of  the  Methodists.  Their 
wildness  and  enthusiasm  daily  increasing,  Lady  Huntingdon 
liastened  to  London  to  endeavour  to  stop  the  plague  by  every 
means  in  her  power. 

Iler  Ladysnip  had  frequent  opportunities  of  speaking  to  Mr. 
Maxfield  and  others ;  and  her  conversation  seems  to  have  had 
some  effect  upon  that  gentleman,  for  from  that  time  he  became 
more  settled  and  more  Calvinistic  in  his  sentiments.  Soon 
after  the  change  in  his  opinions  he  published  an  answer  to  Mr. 
Wesley's  Narrative,  whicli  Mr.  Wesley  was  far  from  approving. 
"  It  was  (says  he)  at  the  pressing  instances  of  Mr.  Whitefield 
and  Lady  Huntingdon  that  he  wrote  that  wretched  book  against 
me."  Mr.  Fletcher  did  not  consider  it  a  wretched  performance, 
for,  after  a  critical  examination  of  it,  he  says : — 

*'  Mr.  Maxfield's  reply  to  Mr.  Wesley's  answer  seems  to  me  just  in 
some  points,  and  in  other  $  too  severe.  Mr.  Wesley  is,  perhaps,  too 
tenacious  of  some  expressions,  and  too  prone  to  credit  wliat  he  wishes 
concerning  some  mistaken  witnesses  of  the  state  of  fathers  in  Christ. 
Mr.  Maxfield,  perhaps,  esteems  too  little  the  inestimable  privilege  of 
behig  porfectea  in  that  love  which  casts  out  fear.  But,  in  general,  I 
conceive,  if  I  do  not  presume  of  myself  in  answering  your  question, 
tliat  it  would  be  better  for  babes,  or  young  men  in  Christ,  to  cry  for  a 
growth  in  grace,  than  to  dispute  whether  fathers  in  Christ  enjoy  such 
or  such  privileges." 

Mr.  Romaine's  visit  to  Brighton  and  the  effects  of  his  minis- 
try were  peculiarly  useful  at  this  time,  for  some  of  these  enthu- 


SELIMA,  COUKTESS  OF  ^UNTIKGDO^.  32  3 

siastic  notions  on  the  doctrine  of  perfection,  which  had  caused 
such  mischief  in  London,  had  crept  amongst  the  society  there, 
and  threatened  to  disturb  the  peace  and  tranquilHty  of  the 
Church  of  Christ  in  that  place.  Mr.  Romaine's  letter  to  Lady 
Huntingdon,  dated  Lambeth,  Nov.  11,  1762,  details  the  par- 
ticulars of  what  occurred  on  this  occasion  : — 

"  Madam. — As  you  have  got  Mr.  Madan  down  with  you,  I  hope  the 
Lord  Christ  will  make  his  ministry  useful,  and  that  his  stay  may  be  as 
long  as  he  chooses.  I  will  undertake  for  any  duty  at  the  Lock,  or  for 
all  the  duty,  if  he  would  let  Mr.  Hawcis  go  his  intended  journey. 
Although  this  be  inconvenient  for  me,  yet  I  don  t  mind  that.  I  find 
my  heart  very  closely  knit  to  the  little  church  at  Brighthelmstone, 
and  would  do  any  thing  to  promote  their  true  happiness.  My  love  to 
them  would  turn  inconvenience  into  a  pleasure.  Smce  I  came  to  town 
several  things  have  happened  to  make  the  people  more  dear  to  me 
than  when  I  was  among  them.  I  find  they  are  not  to  live  long  in  peace 
— they  are  going  on  too  well  to  meet  with  no  disturbance.  The  enemy 
ha&  begun  to  attack  them,  and  has  in  part  succeeded.  He  sees  how 
safe  they  are  while  they  make  Jesus  all  their  salvation  and  all  their  hope 
— and  how  happy,  while  they  live  wholly  by  faith  upon  him,  and  this 
vexes  old  Satan.  Since  he  cannot  dethrone  our  exalted  Head  in  heaven, 
he  shews  his  malice  against  his  members  upon  earth.  The  temptation 
with  wiiich  at  this  day  he  disturbs  them,  is  to  hinder  them  from  living 
upon  Christ,  as  poor  needy  helpless  sinners,  and  from  finduig  by  faitli 
all  they  want  in  his  fulness.  This  exalts  the  Saviour  too  much,  and 
makes  them  too  safe  and  happy ;  therefore  Satan  would  persuade  them 
to  get  riches,  strength,  and  a  clean  heart,  quite  without  sin  in  them- 
selves ;  so  that  then  they  may  look  inward  with  complacency  and  de- 
light, and  look  outward  on  others  of  supposed  smaller  attainments  with 
a  STAND  BY — I  AM  HOLIER  THAN  THOU,  and  look  Upward  with  a  God^  I 
thank  thee  that  I  am  not  as  other  men  are.  Thus  you  see  pride  enters 
in  and  Christ  is  thrust  out." 

Mr.  Madan  appears  to  have  remained  at  Brighton  nearly 
three  months,  with  much  utility  to  the  cause  of  God  in  that 
town.  Desirous  of  supplying  his  place  with  the  services  of 
some  able  minister,  her  Ladyship  wrote  to  Mr.  Berridge,  Mr. 
Romaine,  and  Mr.  Venn,  invitnig  them  to  Brighton,  to  proclaim 
the  "  unsearchable  riches  of  Christ"  to  a  rapidly  increasing 
congregation. 

Mr.  Berridge  says,  in  a  letter  dated  Evcrton,  Nov.  16,  1762 : — 

"  I  cannot  see  my  call  to  Brighthelmstone  ;  and  I  ought  to  see  it  for 
myself,  not  another  for  me.  Was  any  good  done  when  I  was  there  ? 
It  was  God*s  doing :  all  the  glory  be  to  him.  Thb  shows  I  did  not 
then  go  without  my  Master,  but  it  is  no  proof  of  a  second  call.  Many 
single  calls  have  1  had  to  villages  when  some  good  was  done,  but  no 
further  call.  I  am  not  Well  able  to  ride  so  long  a  journey,  and  my  heart 
y2 


924  THE  LIFE  AND  TI3fES  OF 

is  utterly  set  against  wLecl-carriages  in  these  roads.  IndceJ  I  sec  not 
my  call — I  ccnnot  thick  of  the  jouniey ;  and  therefore  pray  your  Lady- 
ship to  think  no  more  of  it.  I  write  thus  plainly,  not  out  of  froward- 
Dess  I  trust,  but  to  save  your  Ladyship  the  trouble  of  sending  a  second 
request,  and  myself  the  pain  of  returning  a  second  denial.  You  threaten 
me.  Madam,  like  a  Pope,  not  like  a  Mother  in  Israel,  when  you  declare 
roundlv  tliat  God  will  scounre  me  if  I  do  not  come  :  but  I  know  vour 
Ladyship's  good  meaning,  and  this  menace  was  not  despised.  It  made 
me  slow  in  resolving,  and  of  course  slow  in  writing ;  it  made  me  also 
attend  to  the  state  of  my  own  mind  during  its  deliberation,  which  was 
as  follows :  Whilst  I  ^-as  lookingtowards  the  sea,  partly  drawn  thither 
with  the  hope  of  doing  good,  and  partly  driven  by  your  Vatican  Bui/,  I 
found  nothing  but  thorns  in  my  \%*ay  ;  but  as  soon  as  I  turned  my  eyes 
from  it,  I  found  peace ;  and  now,  whilst  I  am  sending  a  peremptory 
denial,  I  feel  no  check  or  reproof  iiitliin,  which  I  generally  do  when 
I  am  not  willing  to  go  about  my  Master  s  business." 

Mr.  Venn  observes,  in  a  letter,  dated  Huddersficld,  Decem- 
ber 10,  176-2  :— 

"  In  March  or  April  I  may  be  able  to  visit  you  and  give  you  some 
little  assistance.  I  do  love  to  minister  to  the  dear  flock  at  Biighton  ; 
and  in  order  to  do  this,  may  the  Spirit  of  God  open  the  eyes  of  my 
understanding  more  and  more  to  see  my  need  of  a  Saviour ;  and  to 
behold  the  suitableness,  the  freeness,  and  fulness  of  redemption,  which 
was  wrought  out  by  the  Lord  of  Life  and  Glory.  0  help  me  with 
your  prayers — for  truly  I  need  them.  I  thank  you  ten  thousand  times 
for  all  your  repeated  marks  of  love  and  generosity  to  me  and  mine. 
Continue  to  pray  for  me,  and  tlie  Lord  will  return  it  to  you  sevenfold.** 

Mr.  Romaine  says,  under  date  of  Lambeth,  Dec.  28,  1762 : — 

"  Dear  Madam — I  have  received  the  enclosed  in  a  letter  from  Mr. 
Grimshaw,  and  beingengaged  to  preach  on  Saturday  evening  at  the  Lock, 
I  could  not  send  it  till  this  day's  post.  My  heart  and  my  prayers  arc 
with  vou  :  but  tlie  Lord  docs  not  make  a  way  for  me  visit  vou.  To 
him  I  submit  in  this  (although  it  be  a  great  self-denial),  as  well  as  in 
other  things.  His  will  is  always  good,  and  it  is  always  good  for  us  to 
be  resigned  to  it ;  but  when  the  Spirit  is  willing,  the  flesh  is  often 
weak,  therefore  the  Lord  repeats  lesson  upon  lesson,  line  upon  line,  to 
teach  us  to  submit  to  his  blessed  and  holy  will.  I  am  a  poor  dull 
scholar,  but  he  is  a  kind  Master,  and  through  him  I  get  on,  though 
halting  and  slowly.  Such  am  I  and  such  is  he,  that  I  can  be  telling 
of  nothing  else  but  of  his  salvation  all  the  day  long. 

'*  I  cannot  forget  the  dear  little  church.  I  think  they  must  be 
better  for  my  fervent  prayers.  The  Lord  Christ  keep  them  all,  and 
add  to  their  number.  I  hear  Batcman  has  left  you,  but  I  have  not  seen 
her.  Tliis  life  itself  is  changing,  and  therefore  we  need  not  wonder 
all  things  in  it  change.  But  Jesus  is  the  same — He  changeth  not ; 
and  the  happiness  derived  from  Ilim  is  the  only  unchanging  happiness. 
May  this  be  your  portion  and  mine !  more  we  cannot  ask,  more  we  can- 
not'havc.     I  am,  with  great  respect,  for  the  Lord's  sake,  your  servant." 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  325 

On  the  departure  of  Mr.  Madan  for  London,  his  place  was 
supplied  by  Mr.  Fletcher,  who  continued  some  weeks  at  Brigh- 
ton, and  was  succeeded  by  Mr.  Howel  Davies.  The  labours  of 
these  excellent  men  contributed,  with  the  divine  blessing,  to  the 
restoration  of  peace  and  the  healing  of  those  divisions  which 
had  caused  Ladv  Huntingdon  and  her  friends  so  much  uneasi- 
ness  and  anxiety.  By  the  recept  death  of  Mr.  Jones,  of  St. 
Saviour's,  she  was  deprived  of  a  valuable  and  useful  auxiliary  in 
the  great  work  in  which  she  was  engaged.  He  had  often 
preached  at  her  Ladyship's  in  London,  and  she  had  calculated 
on  his  services  at  Brighton  and  Oathall.  His  first  awakening 
was  by  the  gradual  working  of  the  law  upon  his  conscience ;  and 
his  inward  convictions  of  sin,  wrought  by  the  Spirit  of  God, 
were  very  deep  and  distressing.  While  under  this  concern 
Lady  Huntingdon's  acquaintance  with  him  first  began ;  and  her 
great  intimacy  and  friendship  gave  her  a  constant  opportunity 
of  being  a  witness  of  God's  gracious  dealings  with  nis  soul. 
He  was  greatly  strengthened  and  established  in  the  faith  of  the 
Gospel  by  her  Ladyship's  advice  and  conversation.  He  had 
great  gifts,  and  great  CTace ;  and  he  needed  both  for  the  work 
to  which  Providence  called  him.  His  sweetness  of  natural  tem- 
per, eminently  great  as  it  was,  would  never  have  supported  him 
under  the  numberless  insults  he  met  with,  had  it  not  been 
strengthened,  as  well  as  adorned,  by  a  sublimer  influence.  It 
was  tliis,  and  only  this,  which  enabled  him  to  overcome  evil 
with  good,  as  well  as  to  have,  not  the  form  only,  but  the  power 
of  godliness, 

"  Dear  Mr.  Jones  (observes  her  Ladyship)  lived  happily  and  died 
rejoicino;.  He  was  long  the  subject  of  affliction,  and  often  at  death's 
door.  Bat  he  was  refined  in  the  furnace  of  affliction,  and  his  growth 
in  grace  and  knowledge  of  the  Saviour,  great  and  remarkable.  My 
foolish  heart  fondly  looked  to  his  ministerial  lal>ours  at  Brighton ;  but 
our  glorious  Head  has  frustrated  my  views  in  this,  as  well  as  in  many 
other  ways,  to  humble  me,  and  teach  me  to  look  more  constantly  to 
Him  who  doeth  what  seemeth  him  best." 

Mr.  Jones  exchanged  this  lower  world  of  sin  and  sorrow  for 
the  pure  unmixed  joys  of  God's  eternal  kingdom  above,  on  the 
6th  of  June,  1762,  in  the  thirty-third  year  of  his  age. 


386  THE  LIFE  AMD  TIMES  OP 


CHAPTER    XX. 

Dr.  Haweis — Mr.  Romainc  driven  from  the  Chnpel  of  the  Broadway — Lord 

Dartmouth Letters  from  Messrs.  Romaine  and  Conyera — Sinless  Perfection 

Letters  from  Messrs.  Romaine  and  Wesley — Erasmus,  Bishop  of  Arcadia^ 

Mr.  Toplady — Letters  from  Messrs.  Fletcher  and  Berridge — Death  of  Lady 
Selina  Hastings — Colonel  Hastings — Account  of  Lady  Selina's  death — Letters 
from  Lord  Dartmouth — Mr.  Venn — Mr.  Fletcher — Mr,  Berridge— Oathall 
Chapel^Letters  from  Mr.  Berridge Mr.  Venn's  Complete  Duty  of  Man- 
Letters  from  Messrs.  Venn  and  Berridge. 

Dr.  Haweis  was  now  preaching  at  the  Lock,  but  the  chapel  in 
Broadway,  Westminster,  becoming  vacant  by  the  death  of  Mr. 
Briant,  the  widow  proposed  to  let  it  to  the  Doctor,  who  applied 
to  the  Dean  of  Westminster,  then  Bishop  of  Rochester,  of  which 
see  the  chapel  was  a  peculiar,  for  a  licence.  This  modest 
application  was  ungraciously  refused.  In  vain  did  Dr.  Haweis 
remonstrate ;  he  had  been  oppressively  driven  from  Oxford,  and 
had  preached  at  the  Lock  Hospital.  These  were  his  crimes ; 
and  an  abuse  of  authority  was  thought  justifiable,  in  order  to 
crush  him.  Happily  these  repeated  msults  moved  him  not  one 
jot  from  the  line  chalked  out  for  him,  nor  did  he  cease  to  pro- 
claim the  glory  of  that  God  and  Saviour  in  whom  he  trusted. 

Dr.  Haweis  withdrew  from  the  contest,  but  Mr.  Romaine, 
who  had  already  a  licence  to  preach  in  the  Diocese  of  London, 
opened  the  chapel,  and  preached  with  wonderful  effect  from  that 
pulpit ;  but  before  one  year  expired  the  Bishop's  mandate  com- 
pelled him  to  desist,  under  fear  of  the  terrors  of  the  spiritual 
court,  and  to  leave  the  congregation  he  had  with  care  collected. 
These  able  men  were  thus  denied  a  privilege  which  the  most 
ignorant  curate  in  the  kingdom  might  have  enjoyed.  And  why  ? 
Because  they  had  dared  to  preach  the  Gospel,  and  had  offended 
thereby  those  in  authority,  who  loved  darkness  rather  than  light. 
Lord  Dartmouth  offered  Mr.  Romaine  a  living  in  the  country, 
and  Mr.  Whitefield  invited  him  first,  and  Dr.  Haweis  afterwards, 
to  settle  at  the  gredt  church  in  Philadelphia;  but  both  had 
reasons  for  maintaining  their  stand,  and  rearing  the  cross  on  the 
mount  of  the  Lord's  house.  Mr.  Romaine  especially  felt  him- 
self bound,  like  Codes,  to  keep  the  pass  against  Porsenna  and 
his  forces,  yea,  and  if  th^  bridge  fell,  to  leap  into  the  Tiber^ 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  327 

Mr.  Romaine  wished  to  assist  Lady  Huntingdon,  and  would 
have  succeeded  Mr.  Howel  Davies,  at  Brighton,  but  Mr.  Madan 
being  refused  admission  to  his  pulpit,  and  Dr.  Haweis  being 
still  without  a  licence,  he  could  not  conveniently  leave  Lon- 
don. Mr.  Downing,  who  had  been  with  Mr.  Romaine  in  town, 
had  departed  at  the  very  time  when  Mr.  Davies  left  her  Lady- 
ship at  Brighton,  and  Mr.  Tilney,  like  the  Doctor,  was  without 
a  licence.  To  this  effect  he  wrote  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  under 
date  of  the  5th  of  February,  1763,  from  Lambeth;  we  shall 
not  repeat  that  part  of  the  letter  of  which  we  have  just  given 
the  substance:  but  the  following  interesting  extract  may  bo 
acceptable : — 

'^  Our  kind  love  and  continual  good  wishes  to  Lady  Huntingdon* 
It  would  be  a  great  blessing  if  the  Head  of  tbe  Church  should  have 
more  places  open  to  sound  his  fame  and  praise  in  your  neighbourhood ; 
and  if  he  has  such  a  gracious  design,  there  shall  not  be  wanting  heralds 
to  proclaim  his  style  and  titles.     Get  churches  and  you  won't  want 
ministers.     For  my  part  I  am  quito  fixed,  and  every  day  more  so,  in 
my  present  work.     I  am  called  to  it,  and  commanded  therein  to  abide 
with  God.      People  say  to  me,  you  might  be  more  useful  here— or, 
what  a  great  deal  of  good  you  might  do  there.      Alas!  they  know  me 
not.     What  can  I  do  f     Just  nothing,  except  it  be  marring  and  spoiling 
all  that  I  take  in  hand;  and  I  do  it  so  entirely,  that  I  want  to  hide  my 
face  for  shame.     I  don't  know  that  I  ever  get  up  to  open  my  mouth  ia 
public,  but  my  heart  smites  me  ;  and  I  am  distressed  beyond  measure, 
both  with  the  sorry  stuff  I  utter,  and  also  with  the  wretched  manner 
of  doing  it.      Such  a  very  fool  surely  was  never  set  up  for  a  preacher. 
Yea,  at  times  I  am  so  broken  down  with  the  utter  abhorrence  I  have 
of  mine  own  ministry,  that  I  could  go  and  live  in  the  country  with  my 
mother,  and  seal  up  my  mouth.      But  then  my  dear  tender  Master 
gives  me  a  cordial,  and  tells  me  'tis  good  for  me  to  be  kept  thus  low, 
and  hiB  own  glory  shall  not  be  hurt  by  it.     The  poorness  of  the  minis- 
ter shall  not  make  the  Gospel  of  none  effect,  but  out  of  the  mouths 
of  babes  and  sucklings  ho  will  perfect  praise.      Upon  which  I  begin 
again  to  lisp  out  his  praises  as  well  as  I  can,  but  at  the  very  best  I  am 
ashamed.      I  have  such  a  view  of  the  person  of  Christ,  and  of  his 
offices,  and  graces,  and  salvation,  that  when  I  attempt  to  speak  of  Uiem 
I  know  the  highest  description  cannot  come  up  to  theur  true  merit 
and  dignity,  they  being  altogether  divine  and  infinite  :  and  then  I  am 
quite  discouraged,. till  I  recollect  that  all  the  tongues  in  heaven  can 
only  show  forth  half  his  praise,  and  therefore  I  hope  he  will  forgivo 
me  my  poor  thoughts  of  him,  and  poor  discourses,  and  poor  domgs 
for  him.     I  see  I  must  hve  upon  Him  in  all  things,  as  my  Saviour 
and  then  I  get  well." 

The  following  is  the  letter  of  Dr.  Conyers,  dated  Helmsley, 
February  8, 1768  :— 

('Madam-«It  is  with  the  utiQQSt  satisfocdon  and  with  the  most 


8'28  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

sincere  affection  that  I  now  sit  do\^Ti  to  write  to  yonr  Ladyship — ^"tis 
true  I  never  had  the  happiness  of  seeing  you,  but  in  the  bowels  of 
Jesus  Christ  do  I  love  you — and  it  is  with  the  most  longing  desire  that  I 
look  forward  to  that  happy,  happy  time  when  I  trust  to  be  with  your 
Ladyship  for  ever.  0  that  blessed  God !  that  out  of  mere  free  grace 
has  opened  my  poor  Uind  eyes  in  some  measure  to  see  his  exceeding 
great  love  in  his  dear  Son.  It  constrains  my  heart  to  love  him — it  binds 
my  affections  to  him — and  I  trust  the  same  grace  tliat  laid  hold  upon 
me  will  help  me  to  the  end,  and  preserve  me  to  his  heavenly  king- 
dom. When  I  examine  the  condition  into  which  sin  had  brought  me, 
when  I  look  at,  one  by  one,  the  wants  of  my  soul — my  guilt,  my 
filthiness,  my  i^eakness,  my  nakedness,  and  my  utter  wretchedness — 
and  then  contemplate  the  graces  of  the  Redeemer  as  they  are  held  out 
to  me  m  the  Scriptures  of  truth — when  I  look  at  myself,  and  then  at 
him,  0  what  my  heart  feels  I — ^liow  I  admire ! — how  I  adore  and  love  ! 
Now  I  know,  0  thou  great  and  holy  Lord  God,  that  thou  lovest  me, 
seeing  thou  hast  not  withheld  thy  Son,  thine  only  Son,  from  me.  If  I 
judge  aright.  Madam,  I  am  pouring  out  my  heart  to  one  who  is  no 
stranger  to  the  language  of  Canaan.  Your  Ladyship  is  a  sinner  as 
well  as  I.  I  know  you  feel  it,  and  therefore  will  not  be  angry  witli 
me  for  sa}ing  so ;  and  I  know  that  I  am  now  talking  with  one  who 
will  not  accuse  me  of  running  out  too  far,  as  the  world  calls  it,  in  the 
great  Redeemer's  praises,  but  who  will  join  with  me,  nay  far,  very 
'far  outdo  me  in  love  and  gratitude,  in  thankfulness  and  praise,  to 
that  precious  Lamb  of  God  who  loved  us  and  gave  himself  for  us, 
that  he  might  make  us,  miserable  worms  of  the  earth,  partakers  of  his 
own  eternity.  0  thou  adorable  Lord  Jesus !  what  should  we  talk  of 
or  think  of,  or  write  of,  or  glory  in  else,  but  thy  blessed  self,  who  art 
altogether  lovely  ?  What  can  I  do  ?  What  can  your  Ladyship  do — 
what  can  any  one  do  without  him  ?  and  what  can  they  not  do  that 
have  him  ?  We  are  complete  in  Him — look  by  faith  to  Him  who 
hung  upon  the  cross,  and  every  mouth  of  every  enemy  is  stopped, 
every  accusation  is  silenced — there  is  peace  without  and  peace  within, 
and  peace  with  God  that  passeth  understanding.  Dear  Ladv,  if  we 
are  so  happy  in  his  love  when  we  cannot  see  him,  0  what  shall  we  be 
when  we  are  made  like  Him,  and  shall  see  Him  as  he  is  ? 

"  I  tliank  your  Ladysliip  for  your  kind  solicitude  for  my  health ; 
God  be  praised  it  is  much  better — I  can  preach  again  now;  and  0 
may  I  no  longer  live  than  I  preach  and  love  Christ  Jesus  I  Mr.  Bent- 
ley  has  been  ill,  but  is  much  better ;  he  sends  his  humblest  regards  to 
your  Ladyship.  The  work  of  God  grows  here.  I  beg  your  Lady- 
ship^s  prayers  that  it  may  grow  more  and  more;  and  for  me,  that 
utterance  may  be  given  unto  me,  that  I  may  be  preserve<l  from  evil 
spirits  and  evil  men,  and  from  my  own  exceedingly  evil  heart. 

*'  0  Madam  I  you  know  not  what  need  I  stand  in  of  your  prayers — 
do  let  me  hare  the  comfort  of  them — do  pray  that  I  may  go  with  you 
to  the  kingdom  of  the  dear  Lord  Jesus.  I  am  your  Ladyship's  most 
obedient  and  affectionate  servant  in  our  common  Lord. 

"  Helmsley,  Feb.  8,  1763,  "  Richard  Conyers," 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  829 

With  a  laudable  desire  of  enlarging  the  circle  of  his  useful^ 
ness,  and  with  a  hope  that  the  air  of  the  place  might  have  a 
beneficial  efiect  on  his  health,  Ladv  Huntingdon  invited  Dr. 
Conyers  to  Brighton  ;  but  he  modestly  declined  her  invitation, 
observing  that "  the  duties  of  his  parish,  which  was  very  extensive, 
demanded  all  his  abilities,  all  his  zeal,  and  all  his  strength  ;  and 
that  he  was  fearful  of  venturing  where|so  many  great  and  eloquent 
servants  of  Christ  had  so  successfully  proclaimed  his  grace  and 
salvation."* 

On  the  subject  of  these  disputes  concerning  perfection,  we 
append  a  letter  without  date — rather  a  remarkable  circumstance 
for  the  very  regular  and  generally  accurate  writer — but  it  is  in- 
scribed in  the  hand-writing  of  Lady  Huntingdon — *«  Received  at 
Brightstone,  March  21, 1763,  S.  H,,"  which  is  the  reason  of  its 
postponement  to  this  place: — 

"  My  Lady — For  a  considerable  time  I  liave  had  it  upon  my  mind 
t;)  WTite  a  few  lines  to  your  Ladyship,  although  I  cannot  learn  that 
your  Ladyship  has  ever  enquired  whether  I  was  living  or  dead  ?  By 
the  mercy  of  God  I  am  still  alive,  and  following  the  work  to  which  he 
lias  called  me :  although  without  any  help,  even  in  the  most  trying 
times,  from  those  I  might  have  expected  it  from.  Their  voice  seemed 
to  be  rather  doton  with  him — down  with  him  ;  even  to  the  /ground,  I 
mean  ( for  I  use  no  ceremony  or  cu-cumlocution)  Mr.  Madan,  Mr. 
Haweis,  Mr.  Berridge,  and  ( I  am  sorry  to  say  it),  Mr.  Whitefield. 
Only  Mr.  Romaine  has  shewn  a  tnily  s}nnpathizing  spirit,  and  acted 
the  part  of  a  brother.  I  am  the  mure  surprised  at  this,  because  he 
owed  me  nothing,  only  the  love  which  we  all  owe  one  another.  He 
was  not  my  son  in  tlie  Gospel,  neither  do  I  know  that  he  ever  received 
any  help  throngh  me.  So  much  the  more  welcome  was  his  kindness 
now.     The  Lord  repay  it  seven-fold  into  his  bosom. 

*'  As  to  the  prophecies  of  these  poor  wild  men,  George  Bell  and 
lialf  a  dozen  more,  I  am  not  a  jot  more  accountable  for  them  than  Mr. 
Whitefield  is ;  having  never  countenanced  them  in  any  degree,  but 
opposed  them  from  the  moment  I  heard  tliem.  Neither  have  these 
extravagances  any  foundation  in  any  doctrine  which  I  teach.  The 
loving  God  with  all  our  heart,  soul,  and  strength,  and  the  loving  all 
men  as  Christ  loved  us,  is  and  ever  was,  for  these  thirty  years,  the  sum 
of  what  I  deliver,  as  pure  religion  and  undefiled. 

*  The  worthy  doctor  was  not  without  his  singularities.  He  would  never 
preach  in  any  pulpit  hut  his  own,  not  even  when  nominated  expressly  hy  his 
diocesan  to  preach  in  another  church,  and  it  was  very  rarely  that  his  most  inti- 
mate friends  could  engage  him  to  lead  in  family  worship  at  their  homes.  A 
continual  hurry  and  flutter  of  spirits,  to  which  he  was  unaccountahly  subject, 
thus  contracted  his  usefulness.  The  sight  even  of  a  stranger  in  his  church 
would  disconcert  him,  especially  if  be  tnought  him  a  minister.  He  used  to 
say  to  Mr.  Thornton, "  If  you  expect  any  blessing  under  my  ministry,  I  beg  you 
will  not  bring  so  many  black  coats  with  you." 


830  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

^  However,  if  I  am  beveaved  of  m j  ehildren,  I  am  bereared  I  The 
will  of  the  Lord  be  done  ! 

'  Poor  and  helpless  as  I  am,  Tbou  dost  for  my  yilenets  care  ! 
Thou  hast  called  me  by  my  name !  Thou  dost  all  my  burdens  bear/ 

**  Wishing  your  Ladyship  a  continnal  increase  of  all  blessings,  I  am, 
my  Lady,  your  Ladyship  s  servant  for  Christ^s  sake, 

"John  Wrslby." 

A  letter  from  Mr.Romaine,  dated  Lambeth,  M^rch  26, 1763, 
(five  days  after)  appears  in  some  degree  at  variance  with  that 
of  Mr.  Wesley.     It  runs  thus : — 

^  Madam, — Thanks  to  your  Ladyship  for  your  kind  remembrance 
of  me  in  your  last.  I  rejoice  in  your  joy,  and  am  always  glad  to  hear 
of  the  prosperity  of  your  family  :  for  yours  the  dear  people  are,  and 
are  as  nearly  related  as  your  own  children  are.  They  are  also  to  me 
tied  in  tlie  best  bonds,  and  what  is  in  my  power  shall  not  be  wanting 
for  them.  I  do  not  despair  of  seeing  them  for  a  few  days  before  the 
summer. 

"  Enclosed  is  poor  Mr.  John's  (Wesley's)  letter.  The  contents  of 
it,  as  far  as  I  am  concerned,  surprised  me :  for  no  one  has  spoken 
more  freely  of  what  is  now  passing  among  the  people  than  myself. 
Indeed  I  have  not  preached  so  much  as  others  whose  names  he  men- 
tions, nor  could  L  My  subject  is  one  :  and  I  dare  not  vary  from  it. 
The  more  I  read  and  preach  upon  the  all-sufficiency  of  the  adorable 
Jesus,  the  more  I  am  determined  to  know  nothing  but  Him,  and  Him 
crucified.  But  whatever  stands  in  my  way  of  exalting  Him  I  would 
tread  upon  it  as  the  merest  dross  and  dung.  A  perfection  out  of 
Christ,  call  it  grace,  and  say  it  is  grace  from  him,  yet  with  me  it  is  all 
rank  pride  and  damnable  sin.  Oh !  Madam,  we  should  be  careful  of 
his  glor}%  and  not  give  it  to  another,  least  of  all  to  ourselves.  Depend 
upon  it,  man  cannot  be  laid  too  low,  nor  Christ  set  too  high.  I  would 
therefore,  always  aim,  as  good  brother  Grimshaw  expresses  it,  to  get 
the  old  gentleman  down,  and  keep  him  down  :  and  then  Christ 
reigns  like  himself,  when  he  is  All,  and  man  is  nothing ! 

"  I  pity  Mr.  John  from  my  heart.  His  societies  are  in  great  con- 
fusion ;  and  the  point  which  brought  them  into  the  \iildness  of  rant 
and  madness  is  still  insisted  on  as  much  as  ever.  I  fear  the  end  of 
tliis  delusion.  As  the  late  alarming  Providence  has  not  had  its  proper 
effect,  and  j)€iJection  is  still  the  cry,  God  will  certainly  give  them  up 
to  some  more  dreadful  thing.  May  their  eyes  be  opened  before  it  be 
too  late ! 

"  I  am  glad  we  shall  see  you  so  soon.  I  rejoice  for  myself;  but  I 
fear  you  will  not  stay  long.  Things  are  not  here  as  at  Brighthelmstone. 
We  have  many  precious  souls,  but  we  really  want  LovB.  The  Foun- 
•  dry^  the  Tabernacle^  the  Locl\  the  Meeting^  yea,  St.  Dunstans^  has 
each  its  party,  and  brotherly  love  is  almost  lost  in  our  disputes.  Thank 
God,  I  am  out  of  them.  1  wish  them  all  well,  and  love  them  all ;  and 
where  we  differ,  tliere  is  exercise  for  my  charity.     But  I  condemii 


SELINAi  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  331 

none  that  will  not  subscribe  to  my  creed.  By  the  grace  of  God  I  am 
what  I  am.  My  wife  joins  me  in  duty  and  anection  to  your  Ladyship^ 
and  we  are  your  faithful  servants  in  our  most  dear  and  eternally 
precious  Jesus, 

"  W.  ROMAINE  " 

Her  Ladyship  was  recalled  from  London,  after  a  very  short 
visit,  by  the  melancholy  intelligence  of  the  serious  illness  of 
Lady  Selina  Hastings,  which  obliged  her  to  return[to  Brighton. 
The   next  remarkable  incident    of  her  visit  to    town  was  the 
attempt  of  a  person  named  Erasmus,  a  Greek  bishop,  whose  see 
wa^,  according  to  the  Patriarch   of  Constantinople,  Arcadia,  in 
Crete,  to  introduce  himself  to  her  Ladyship.      "There  is  some- 
thing singular  in  this  man  (writes  her  Laayship),  and  it  strikes 
me  that  he  is  not  altogether  what  he  appears  or  pretends  to 
be.     Mr.  Romaine,  Mr.  Madan,  and  others,  have  strong  doubts 
of  the  reality    of  his  office."      Mr.  Wesley,  however,  was  of 
another  opinion,  and  in  opposition  to  the  advice  of  his  brother 
Charles,  and  against  the  opinions  of  his  best  friends,  obtained 
orders  for  some  of  his  lay-preachers  from  the  Bishop  of  Arcadia. 
Mr.  Jones  and  Mr.  Staniforth  (the  latter  had  been  a  soldier  in 
Flanders)    were  so  ordained,  but  found  their  appointment  so 
invidiously  regarded  that  they  never  exercised  tneir  fimctions. 
Others   coveted  the   distinction,  and    obtained  of  the  foreign 
bishop  the  laying  on  of  hands,  without  Mr.  Wesley's  knowledge, 
for  which  contempt  of  his  authority  he  excluded  the  so-ordained 
pastors  from  his  Connexion.  Mr.  Toplady,  who  had  great  doubts 
concerning  the  authority  of  Erasmus,  Bishop  of  Arcadia,  wrote 
against  his  ordination  of  ministers  of  the  Church  in  England, 
and  his  objections  were,  with  Mr.  Wesley's  privity,  replied  to 
by  Mr.  Thomas  Olivers.     Mr.  Wesley  was  accused  of  a  breach 
of  the  oath  of  supremacy,  by  thus  availing  himself  of  the  powers 
of  a  foreign  prelate ;  and  he  was  further  charged  with  naving 
pressed  the  bishop  to  consecrate  him,   Mr.  Wesley  himself,  a 
bishop,   that  he  might  have  power  to    ordain  whomsoever  he 
would.     The  former  charge  was  denied  by  Mr.  Olivers,  and  the 
latter  justified,  on  the  ground  that  the  inward  call  of  Mr.  Wes- 
ley and  his  followei's  being  manifest,  they  naturally  desired  the 
outward  call  also.      This  being  refused  them  by  the  English 
bishops,  justified  them,  it  was  believed,  iu  seeking  it  whereso- 
ever they  pleased. 

The  Countess,  on  her  return  to  Brighton,  proceeded  imme« 
diately  toOathall,  and  there,  onthe  l*2th  May,  1763,  was  visited 
with  the  severest  domestic  calamity — the  loss  of  her  affectionate 
and  amiable  daughter.  Lady  Selina  Hastings ;  whose  unwearied 
attentions,  kindness,  and  affection  had  been  long  a  source  of 


332  THE   LIFE   AND   TIMES   OP 

comfort  to  the  Countess  amidst  the  many  trials  with  which  she 
was  surrounded.  A  heavier  infliction  could  not  have  been  laid 
upon  her.  Lady  Selina  had  been  ill  sixteen  days,  having  been 
seized  on  the  26th  of  April.  She  was  the  youngest  of  seven 
children,  four  sons  and  three  daughters,  and  was  born  Dec.  3, 
1737.  Her  Ladyship  was  one  of  six  Earls'  daughters  who  as- 
sisted the  Princess  of  Augusta  in  supporting  the  train  of  Queen 
Charlotte,  at  her  coronation,  on  the  22nd  Sept.  1761.  She 
was  to  have  been  married  with  the  consent  of  the  Countess 
her  mother,  and  her  brother,  Francis,  Earl  of  Huntingdon,  to 
her  relative.  Colonel  George  Hastings,  son  of  Henry,  Lord 
Hastings,  as  he  was  called  by  courtesy,  on  account  of  his  affinity 
to  the  then  bachelor  Earl.  The  Colonel  was  two  years  older 
than  Lady  Selina,  and  had  been  educated  at  the  expense  of  her 
father,  Theophilus,*  with  her  brother  Francis.  He  married 
(after  the  death  of  Lady  Selina)  Sarah,  daughter  of  Colonel 
Thomas  Hodges,  and  died  in  1802,  leaving  three  sons,  two  of 
whom  died  unmarried,  and  the  third  was  Hans  Francis,  twelfth 
Earl  of  Huntingdon,  and  father  of  the  present  Earl. 

The  following  interesting  account  of  the  illness  and  death  of 
Lady  Selina  Hastings  was  drawn  up  by  the  good  Countess 
herself,  and  it  affords  an  affecting  evidence  of  her  piety  and 
resignation : — 

'*  It  pleased  our  dear  God  and  only  Saviour  to  take  from  me,  May 
12,  1703,  at  three  quarters  after  four  in  the  morning,  my  dearest,  my 
altogether  lovely  child  and  (laughter,  Lady  Selina  Hastings,  the  desire 
of  my  eyes  and  continual  pleasure  of  my  heart.  On  the  26th  of  April 
she  was  taken  ill  of  a  fever,  which  lasted  obstinate  till  the  17th  day 
from  the  time  it  began.  On  her  going  to  bed  she  said  she  should  never 
rise  from  it  more ;  and  from  all  she  said  to  me  through  her  illness,  it 
was  evident  that  she  continued  satisfied  she  could  not  live.  She  said 
she  did  not  begin  to  think  about  death  then,  and  that  she  had  no  desire 

♦  The  ninth  Earl.  Theophilus  the  eleventh  Earl,  was  the  eldest  brother  of 
Colonel  Hastings,  he  was  the  godson  of  the  ninth  Earl  and  educated  by  him. 
lie  took  orders,  and  obtained  the  family  livings  of  Great  and  Little  Beke,'Of>ga- 
thorp,  and  Belton.  lie  was  twice  married,  but  died  without  issue.  His  tirst 
wife.  Miss  Pratt,  died  soon  after  her  marriage.  His  second  wife  was  Betsy 
Warner,  a  domestic  of  Donnington  Park,  with  whom  having  had  some  dalliance 
in  his  youth,  and  having  promised  her  maniage  as  soon  as  he  should  get  the 
living  of  Beke,  was  reminded  of  his  promise  thirty  years  after  it  was  made, 
Astonished,  but  not  ashamed  of  his  early  choice,  he  enquired  into  her  character, 
aid  finding  that  clear,  he  kept  his  promise.  He  himself  published  in  his  own 
village  church  the  bans  between  the  Rev.  Theophilus  Hastmgs  and  Betsy  War- 
ner. "  My  name  (exclaimed  the  lady  from  an  adjoining  pew^  is  Elizabeth|r' 
and  they  were  married  accordingly.  He  had  never  legally  chiimed  the  title 
which,  however,  he  had  personaUy  assumed,  and  to  which  he  had  an  undoubted 
right     He  died  in  1804,  in  the  76th  year  of  Ids  age. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  333 

to  live ;  therefore,  my  dear  motlicr,[wliy  not  now  ? — tlieLord  can  make 
me  ready  for  himself  in  a  moment,  and  if  I  live  longer  I  may  not  be 
belter  prepared;  I  am  a  poor  creature — /  can  do  nothing  myself— I 
only  hope  you  will  be  supported.  She  often  desired  me  to  pray  by  her, 
and  with  great  earnestness  accompanied  me.  At  one  time  she 
called  me  and  said,  *  My  dearest  mother^  come  and  He  down  by  me, 
and  let  my  Iieart  be  laid  dose  to  yours^  and  then  I  shall  get  rest,*  She 
often  called  on  the  Lord  Jesus  to  have  mercy  on  her,  and  complained 
of  her  impatience,  though  no  one  ever  heard  a  complaint  pass  her  lip^, 
notwithstanding  her  sufferings  were  very  great.  I  said  she  was  blessed 
with  patience ;  she  replied,  Oh,  no  !  with  some  tears.  During  the 
last  four  days,  these  sentences  at  times  fell  from  her : — JesnSy  teach 
me  ! — Jesus^  wash  me  I — cleanse  me,  and  purify  me  !  Lying  quiet, 
she  said,  two  angels  were  beckoning  her  atid  she  must  go^  but  could 
not  get  up  the  ladder.  Another  time  she  said — /  am  as  happy  as  my 
heart  can  desire  to  be.  The  day  before  lier  death,  I  came  to  her  and 
asked  if  she  knew  me  ?  She  answered,  my  dearest  mother,  I  then 
Qsked,  if  her  heart  was  happy  ?  She  replied,  /  now  well  undei'stand 
yoa  ;  and  raising  her  head  from  the  pillow,  added,  /  am  happy^  very 
VERY  happy!  and  then  put  out  her  lips  to  kiss  me.  She  gave  direc- 
tions to  her  servant,  Catherine  Spooner,  about  the  disposal  of  some 
rings,  observing  tbat  she  mentioned  it  to  her,  lest  it  should  shock  her 
dear  mother  to  tell  her.  She  often  said,  to  be  resigned  to  God's  will 
was  all,  and  that  she  had  no  hope  of  salvation  but  i?i  the  mercy  of  Jesus 
Christ  alone.     Blessed  are  dead  that  die  in  the  Lord." 

Mr.  Romaine,  in  a  letter  to  Mrs.  Medhurst,  of  Kippax,  the 
niece  of  Lady  Huntingdon,  and  one  of  his  most  intimate  and 
attached  friends,  savs : — 

"  The  Lord  does  not  leave  himself  without  a  witness  among  us  poor 
sinners.  He  has  been  doing  miracles  of  mercy  for  Lady  Hr::t'!in:don; 
and  as  she  herself  says — in  i/ie  midst  of  judgment  he  remembered 
mercy.  You  have  heard,  I  suppose,  of  Lady  SeHna-s  illness.  She  had 
violent  fever  for  about  seventeen  days,  and  the  physicians  did  not 
apprehend  she  was  in  any  great  danger,  although  she  Mas  near  her 
end.  On  Thursday  morning  about  four  o'clock  the  Lord  took  her  to 
himself.  0  what  a  stroke  was  that,  say  you,  to  Lady  Huntingdon !  No, 
indeed,  it  was  all  mercy,  all  love,  like  the  rest  of  Jesus's  gracious  dcid- 
ings  with  his  people.  During  her  illness.  Lady  Huntingdon  had  every 
day  many  promises  given  her  of  God's  kindness  to  her  daughter ;  all 
which  she  interpreted  in  a  carnal  sense,  like  the  Jews,  and  thought 
her  daughter  would  recover,  and  do  well  again.  By  this  means  she 
was  wonderfully  supjwrted,  and  her  spirits  were  kept  up  to  the  last. 
And  when  the  Lord  let  her  see  things  were  othenvise  intended  than 
she  thought,  then  he  had  prepared  for  her  a  fresh  fund  of  comfort. 
For  such  was  Lady  Sehna's  behaviour,  and  such  her  speeches,  from 
the  beginning  of  her  illness,  that  there  is  no  doubt  but  she  died  happy 
in  tlic  arms  of  Jesus.  My  dear  friend,  if  I  had  time  to  tell  you  all  the 
particukrs  of  her  deaths  your  soul  would  abundantly  rejoice,  and  all 


334  TIDE   LIFE   AXD  TIMES   OF 

that  IB  within  you  would  bless  the  God  of  joar  salration.  To  him  she 
committed  herself,  trusted  him,  found  him  faithful,  and  declared,  over 
and  over  again,  that  in  him  she  was  happv.  Her  last  words  to  her 
mother,  when  she  took  her  leave,  were  these :  Lady  Huntingdon  had 
said, '  My  dearest  cliild,  how  do  you  feel  your  heart  ?  are  you  happy  ?' 
Lady  Sefina  answered,  lifting  up  her  head  from  the  pillow,  which  she 
had  not  done  for  several  days,  i  am  happy  ^-exceedingly  happy  in  Jesus 
—then  she  kissed  Lady  Huntingdon,  and  presently  went  home. 
Altliough  my  Lady  bears  this  so  well,  yet  she  feels  it.  She  is  but  a 
woman,  and  though  a  gracious  one,  yet  grace  does  not  destroy  nature. 
She  is  a  parent,  and  at  present  incaj)able  of  uniting." 

:    It  was  Lady  Selina's  happiness  to  be  born  of  a  parent  who 
considered  a  religious  education  the  highest    accomplishment 
with  which  her  daughter  could  be  graced,  and  the  most  valuable 
patrimony  with  which  she  could  be  endowed.     Her  disposition 
was  naturally  amiable,  and  she  studied  to  repay  maternal  affec^ 
tion  with  an  attachment   that  "grew   with  her  growth,    and 
strengthened  with  her  strength."     Her  religion  was  the  religion 
of  the  heart,  and  consisted  in  an  habitual  intercourse  with  her 
God,  from  which  neither  the  attractions  of  youth  and  fortune, 
nor  the  dazzling  splendour  of  high  life,  could  divert  her.     Her 
cotiduct  demonstrated  the  reality  and  energy  of  a  divine  prin- 
ciple, always  alive  atid  active  in  its  influence  on  her  mind.    And 
as  her  life  was  aiinable  and  useful,  so  its  closing  scenes  were 
highly  interesting.     Possessing  the  yrace^  and  fiving  the  ///c, 
she  had  the  consolation  of  departing  in  the  full  enjoyment  of 
failh.     From  the  commencement  of  her  illness  to  the  closing 
scene  she  discovered  great  serenity  and  composure  of  mind, 
arising  from  a  firm  reliance  on  the  mediation,  righteousness,  and 
atonement  of  the  Redeemer — a  sweet  complacency  in  the  con- 
solations of  the  Gospel,  and  the  abounding  display  of  divine 
mercy  to  the  chief  of  sinners,  through  the  method  of  salvation. 

To  resign  into  the  arms  of  death  so  aflectionate  and  dutiful 
a  daughter  was  a  severe  trial  to  the  Countess ;  but  the  consi- 
deration that  it  was  ordered  by  that  Being  who  is  too  wise  to  be 
mistaken  and  too  good  to  be  unkind,  silenced  every  opposing 
thought.  "  The  clioicest  flowers  we  collect  from  the  garden  of 
society,  which  yield  us  the  richest  fra<jrance,  too  often  fade  in 
our  bosom,  drop  their  leaves,  and  moulder  in  the  dust."  The 
loss  of  such  a  child  was  very  sensibly  felt  by  her  afliicted  mother; 
she  best  knew  her  worth,  and  most  keenly  deplored  the  parting 
stroke.  But  through  the  whole  of  this  suffering  season,  this 
time  of  sorest  anguish,  she  was  enabled  to  look  for  help  and 
strength  to  the  rock  of  her  salvation,  to  yield  implicit  submis- 
sion to  the  will  of  God,  to  be  absolutely  resigned  to  his  dispo« 
sal,  and  to  repress  every  murmuring  thought.     <<  It  is  the  Lordi 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  335 

let  him  do  what  seemeth  him  good,"  was  the  prevailhig  senti- 
ment of  her  humble,  sorrowing,  submissive  soul. 

This  was  a  period  much  to  be  remembered  by  Lady  Hunting- 
don, for  the  many  affecting  testimonies  of  distress  which  ap- 
peared on  every  side.  A  multitude  of  consolatory  letters  were 
addressed  to  her  Ladyship  on  this  afflicting  event,  by  friends 
who  were  united  to  her  in  that  intimacy  of  heart  which  is  felt 
only  by  those  who  love  the  brethren  for  the  truth's  sake.  Mr. 
Whitetield  was  in  Scotland,  and  just  on  the  eve  of  embarking  for 
America,  at  the  time  of  Lady  Selina's  illness  and  death.  In 
a  letter  to  Mr.  Keene,  he  says,  "  I  rejoice  to  hear  that  good 
Lady  Huntingdon  is  so  supported ;"  and  also  to  another  corre- 
spondent— "  Yours  to  Lady  Huntinmion  is  taken  care  of.  I 
heir  her  daughter  died  well,  and  that  ner  Ladyship  is  comforted 
and  resigned." 

The  Earl  of  Dartmouth  writes,  under  date  of  Blackheath, 
May  18,  1763:— 

'*  My  dear  Madam, — Permit  Lady  Dartmouth  and  myself  to  sym- 
patliizc  with  you  on  the  recent  departure  of  the  amiable  and  excelleilt 
Lady  Soli n a  Hastings.  Mr.  Romainc  was  so  good  as  to  let  me  see 
your  Ladyship's  letter  to  him,  aunounciug  the  solemn  event,  and  de- 
tailing the  supports  and  divine  consolations  which  she  enjoyed  in  her 
lost  moments.  Little  did  we  imagine  when  we  had  the  pleasure  of 
seeing  her  so  lately  in  London  that  she  was  so  near  the  connnes  of  the 
eternal  world.  But  we  know  not  what  a  day  or  a  night  may  bring  forth. 
Thoueh  nature  must  feel  the  loss  of  such  a  darling  object,  now  must 
your  Ladyship's  grief  be  mingled  with  joyful  satisfaction  and  compla- 
cency that  the  noble  evidence  she  gave  of  the  grace  and  hope  of  the 
Gospel,  and  the  loving-kindness  and  mercy  of  the  Saviour  manifested 
in  her  dying  moments.  Oh,  mv  dear  Madam,  Lady  Selina  in  now 
singing  the  praises  of  redeeming  love  before  the  throne  of  God  and  of 
the  Lamb. 

•  She  is  happy  now,  and  we, 
Soon  her  happiness  shall  see.' 

"  Lady  Dartmouth  feels  most  sensibly  for  your  Ladyship  on  tliis  oc- 
casion, and  has  been  deeply  affected  by  the  touching  close  of  your 
daughter  8  earthly  course.  We  are  deeply  indebted  to  your  Ladyship, 
more  deeply  than  wc  can  express.  Our  obligations  are  of  a  nature 
never  to  be  repaid  by  us ;  but  you  will  be  rewarded  openly  before  an 
assembled  world,  when  we  shall  swell  that  innumerable  train  of  chil- 
dren which  the  Lord  hath  given  to  you.  There,  Madam,  wc  shall  hope 
to  meet  you  and  join  your  beatified  child.  God  grant  you  grace  to  feel 
resigned  and  submissive  under  this  event.  To  his  never  failing  kind- 
ness and  mercy  we  commend  you — living  and  dying  may  you  be  the 
Lord's  I 

^^  With  a  grateful  sense  of  your  kindness,  I  remain,  my  dear  Madam, 
your  very  affectionate  humble  servant.  "  DARTM0t7TH." 


336  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

Mr.  Venn  writes  from  Huddersfield,  May  31,  1763,  as  fol- 
lows : — 

"  Amongst  the  many  in  these  parts  who  have  a  love  for  your  Lady- 
ship's name,  and  a  tender  s}Tnpathy  with  you,  as  a  member  of  Christ, 
I  desire  to  assure  your  Ladyship  I  do  not  forget  to  offer  up  many 
prayers,  tliat  your  present  very  severe  cross  may  be  sanctified,  and  the 
agonizing  separation  be  made  supportable,  by  larger  manifestations  of 
the  faithfulness  and  marvellous  loving-kindness  of  God  our  Saviour. 

"  I  was  exceedingly  glad  to  hear  from  Mr.  Romaine's  letter  to  Mrs. 
Mcdhurst,  that  in  the  midst  of  so  much  grief  there  is  so  much  cause 
to  bless  God  for  the  manifestation  of  his  love  to  your  deceased  daughter. 
How  truly  are  we  compared  to  the  tender  short-lived  flower.  In  the 
short  time  of  only  nine  months,  no  less  than  two  of  your  Ladyship's 
visiters  at  Knaresborough  have  been  gathered  to  their  long  home.  Mr. 
Grimshaw  is  now  before  the  throne  above,  and  that  very  amiable  youth 
your  Ladyship  was  so  kind  as  to  take  some  notice  of,  Mr.  Thomas 
Hudson^  received  his  dismission  about  two  months  since.  His  end,  as 
his  life,  was  much  to  the  glory  of  free  grace.  Very  delightful  were 
the  expressions  of  comfort  that  dropped  from  his  lips."* 

Mr.  Berridge  writes  from  Everton,  June  23,  1763: — 

"  My  Lady, — I  received  your  letter  from  Brighthelmstone,  and  hope 
you  will  soon  learn  to  bless  your  Redeemer  for  snatching  away  your 
daughter  so  speedily.  Methinks  I  see  great  mercy  in  the  suddeimess 
of  her  removal,  and  when  your  bowels  have  done  yearning  for  her  you 
will  see  it  too.  0  !  what  is  she  snatched  from  ?  Why,  truly,  from  the 
plague  of  an  evil  heart,  a  wicked  world,  and  a  crafly  devil — snatched 
from  all  suchbitter  grief  as  now  overwhelms  you — snatched  from  every 
thing  that  might  wound  her  ear,  afflict  her  eye,  or  pain  her  heart. 
And  what  is  she  snatched  to  ?  To  a  land  of  everlasting  peace,  where 
the  voice  of  the  turtle  is  ever  heard,  where  every  inhabitant  can  [say, 
*  I  am  no  more  sick  !  no  more  whim  in  the  head,  no  more  plague  in 
the  heart,  but  all  full  of  love  and  full  of  praise,  ever  seeing  with  enrap- 
tured eyes,  ever  blessing  with  adoring  hearts,  that  dear  Lamb  who  has 
washed  them  in  his  blood,  and  has  now  made  them  Kings  and  Priests 
unto  God  for  ever  and  ever.  Amen,  0  madam  I  What  would  you 
have  ?  Is  it  not  better  to  sing  in  heaven, '  Worthy  is  the  Lamb  that  was 
slain,'  &c.  than  crj'ing  at  Oathall,  '  0  wretched  woman  that  I  am  ?'  Is 
it  not  better  for  her  to  go  before,  than  to  stay  after  you  ?  and  then  to  be 
lamenting,  '  Ah  my  mother  !'  as  you  now  lament,  '  Ah  my  daughter  !* 
Is  it  not  better  to  have  your  Sclina  taken  to  heaven,  than  to  have  your 

♦  Mr.  Hudson  was  brother  to  one  of  Mr.  Venn's  most  valued  and  faithful 
friends  and  correspondents,  who  married  in  1768  the  Rev.  John  Ryland,'then 
curate  of  Huddersfield,  and  afterwards  successively  minister  of  St.  Mary's,  Bir- 
mingham, and  Rector  of  Sutton  Coldfield,  Warwickshire.  See  some  letters  to 
Miss  Hudson,  on  the  death  of  her  brother,  in  Mr.  Venn's  Life  and  Correspon- 
dence. 


SELINA,  CX)UNTE8S  OF  HUNTINGDON.  357 

heart  divided  between  Christ  and  Selina  ?  If  she  was  a  silver  idol 
before,  might  she  not  have  proved  a  golden  one  afterwards  ?  She  is 
gone  to  pay  a  most  blessed  visit,  and  will  see  you  again  by  and  by, 
never  to  part  more.  Had  she  crossed  the  sea  and  gone  to  Ireland^ 
you  could  have  home  it ;  but  now  she  is  gone  to  heaven  'tis  almost 
intolerable.  Wonderful  Jstrange  love  this !  Such  behaviour  in  others 
would  not  surprise  me,  but  I  could  almost  beatyou  for  it ;  and  I  am  sure 
Selina  would  beat  you  too,  if  she  was  called  back  but  one  moment 
from  heaven,  to  gratify  your  fond  desires.  I  cannot  soothe  you,  and  I 
must  not  flatter  you.  I  am  glad  the  dear  creature  is  gone  to  heaven 
before  you.  Lament,  if  you  please ;  but  glory,  glory,  glory,  be  to  God, 
says 

''John  Berridoe." 

Mr.  Fletcher's  letter  of  condolence  is  dated  Madely,  Septem- 
ber 10,  1763:— 

"  Blessed  be  God  (he  says)  for  giving  us  the  unspeakable  satisfac- 
tion to  see  Lady  Selina  safely  landed,  and  out  of  the  reach  of  vanity. 
This  is  mercy  rejoicing  over  judgment  of  a  truth.  This  is  an  answer 
to  the  blood  of  Jesus  and  prayers.  This  is  an  earnest  of  what  the 
Lord  will  do  for  my  Lady  in  his  time. 

*'  Come,  my  Lady,  let  us  travel  on,  sticking  close  to  our  heavenly 
guide :  let  us  keep  a  hold  of  the  hem  of  his  garment ;  by  firmly  believing 
the  arms  of  his  wise  providence  and  everlasting  love  are  underneath 
us ;  let  us  hasten  to  our  friends  in  light,  and  while  we  thus  stand  still, 
we  shall  see  the  salvation,  the  great  salvation  of  our  God.  He  that 
Cometh  will  come,  and  will  not  tarry — even  so,  Lord  Jesus,  come 
quickly,  and  let  us  all  be  lost  together  in  thy  love  and  prabe." 

Another  passage  from  one  of  Mr.  Berridge's  letters,  a  good 
specimen  of  his  epistolair  style,  cannot  be  otherwise  than 
acceptable  to  the  reader.     It  is  dated  June  27,  1763: — 

*'  My  poor  clay  ever  wants  to  teach  God  how  to  be  a  good  potter ; 
and  may  not  your  Dresden  have  something  in  it  that  resembles  my 
Delf  ?  You  would  not,  like  Uzziah,  lay  your  hand  on  the  ark  of  God ; 
but  may  you  not  be  too  solicitous  about  a  driver  of  the  cart  ?  and  a 
blinder  hobgoblin  than  myself  you  need  not  desire.  Indeed  I  am  so 
dissatisfied  with  my  own  carting,  that,  if  I  durst,  I  should  throw  the 
whip  out  of  my  hands.  Every  hour  I  lose  my  way — every  day  for- 
get what  I  learnt  the  day  before ;  neither  instruction  nor  correction 
mends  me.  Yea,  verily,  though  I  know  myself  to  be  a  most  stupid 
ass,  yet  at  times  I  am  a  most  conceited  alao.  Though  not  fit  to 
drive  a  dung-cart,  yet  at  some  certain  seasons  I  can  fancy  myself 
qualified  to  be  the  King's  coachman.  And  nothing  so  much  discovers 
to  me  the  sovereign  hypocrisy  of  my  heart,  as  when  any  one  is  so 
cruelly  kind  as  to  tell  me  that  all  the  mean  things  I  say  of  myself  arc 
verv  true.  Nay,  if  your  Ladyship  should  send  me  word  that  you 
really  think  me  that  hobgoblin  which  I  seem  to  think  myself,  and  fully 
think  myself  to  be,  it  might  pat  me  so  much  out  of  conceit  with  you 

VOL.  I. — t 


868  THE  LIFB  AND  TIHE8  OF 

118  to  fiincy  that  your  Dresden  was  now  no  better  than  my  Delf.  Ob ! 
I  am  sick,  sick  mighty  sick  of  this  self.  How  can  you  but  rejoice  for 
that  hapny  creature  who  was  delivered  from  tbis  self,  almost  as  soon^ 
as  sbe  felt  tbe  curse  of  it  ?" 

In  another  letter,  dated  Jiily  3,  Mr.  Berridge  says : — 

''  Ob  beart !  beart !  wbat  art  thou  ?  a  mass  of  fooleries  and  absurdi- 
ties I  the  vainest,  foolishest,  craftiest,  ^^ickedest  thing  in  nature.  And 
yet  tbe  Lord  Jesus  asks  me  for  tbis  beart,  woos  me  for  it,  died  to  win 
It     0  wonderful  love  1  adorable  condescension ! 

^'  Take  it,  Lord,  and  let  it  be 
Ever  closed  to  all  but  tbee." 

Again,  under  date  of  July  9,  1763,  he  says : — 

''  Mrs.  Batcman  has  sent  me  a  mighty  pretty  letter  to  coax  me  into 
Sussex,  and  withal  acquaints  me  that  your  Ladyship  has  been  ill  of  a 
feyor,  but  is  now  better.  I  was  glad  to  bear  of  both.  Nothing  expels 
undue  grief  of  mind  like  bodily  corrections.  Nothing  makes  tbe 
child  leaye  crying  like  the  rod ;  at  least  I  find  it  so  by  experience. 
However,  I  durst  not  scud  such  consolation  to  many  Christians,  because 
they  are  not  able  to  see  tbe  truth  or  bear  tbe  weight  of  it  I  found 
your  heart  was  sorely  pained,  and  I  pitied  you,  but  durst  not  soothe 
you.  For  soothing,  though  it  eases  grief  for  a  moment,  only  makes 
Lady  Self  grow  more  burdensome,  and  occasions  more  tears  in  the  end. 
A  little  whipping  from  your  Father  will  dry  up  your  tears  much  sooner 
than  a  thousand  pretty  lullabies  from  your  brethren.  And  I  now  hope 
you  will  be  well  soon." 

When  Lady  Huntingdon  removed  from  Brighton  to  Oathall, 
in  the  June  of  this  year  (1763),  she  was  engaged  in  making 
arrangements  for  the  services  of  her  chapel,  whicn  had  been  sus- 

S ended  during  the  illness  and  by  the  death  of  Lady  Selina. 
Ir.  Berridge  could  not  leave  Everton  till  relieved  by  Mr.  Madan 
or  Dr.  Haweis.  Mr.  Madan  went  first  to  Brighton,  and  promised 
Mr.  Berridge  to  visit  Everton  on  Mr.  Romaine's  return  from 
Yorkshire.  The  Tottenham  congregation  would  not  be  de- 
prived of  the  services  of  Mr.  Dyer,*  depending  on  Mr.  Green,f 
and  neither  the  hospital  chaplains^  nor  the  vicar  of  St.  Dun- 
Stan's  §  cared  (we  quote  Mr.  Berridge)  to  peep  into  the  Totten- 
ham pulpit. 

In  the  course  of  this  summer,  Mr.  Venn,  having  come  from 
Huddersfield  to  London  to  superintend  the  publication  of  his 
"  Complete  Duty  of  Man,"  proceeded  thenco  to  Brighton,  on  a 

*  Rev.  George  Dyer,  then  resident  minister  at  Tottenham  Chapel,  and  Lec- 
turer of  St.  George  the  Martyr,  Southwark. 
t  Rev.  John  Green,  formerly  curate  of  Thumscoe,  in  Yorkshire, 
$  Messrs.  Madan  and  Haweis. 
jf  Mr.    Romftin^. 


SELINA)  COtTNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  359 

visit  to  Lady  Huntingdon.  He  preached  frequently  in  Brighton, 
but  could  not  accompany  her  Ladyship  to  OathalL  On  the 
27th  of  August,  after  his  return  to  Huddersfield,  he  wrote  to 
acknowledge  a  letter  from  the  Countess,  and  observes,  *'  I  de- 
sire to  be  abased,  and  am  filled  with  the  deepest  wonder  at  the 
account  you  send  me  of  the  Lord's  prospering  my  poor  attempts 
to  preach  his  name  among  your  people.  My  visit  to  t/aur 
Ladyship  teas  indeed  a  great  blessing  to  my  oton  souL"  In  the 
letter  he  alludes  to  a  visit  which  he  paid  to  Ipswich,  on  his  way 
homeward,  to  his  brother,  Dr.  Edward  Venn,  M.D.,  of  St.  John's 
College,  Cambridge,  who  settled  as  a  physician  at  Ipswich,* 
where,  he  tells  us,  his  wife's  brother  was  minister  of  the  great 
church. 

Mr.  Romaine  reached  Everton  on  the  1st  of  August,  and 
Mr.  Berridge  set  out  for  Oathall,  whence,  after  a  time,  he  pro- 
ceeded to  London,  and  preached  at  the  Tottenham  Chapel, 
and  returned  to  Everton  before  the  end  of  a  month.  In  the 
mean  while,  Mr.  Madan  had  succeeded  Mr.  Romaine  at  Ever- 
ton, and  afterwards,  by  Ladv  Huntingdon's  desire,  extended  his 
excursion  to  Yorkshire.  Mr.  Romaine  had  by  this  time  reached 
Brighton.  In  Mr.  Berridge's  letter  to  Lady  Huntingdon, 
written  after  his  return  home,  and  dated  Everton,  September  2, 
1763,  he  says  he  heard  Mr.  Edwards,  of  Leeds,  at  the  Taber- 
nacle, whom  he  describes  as  a  sensible  man,  ^ho  seems  alive,  but 
a  wonderful  admirer  of  method,  and  one  who  has  swallowed 
John  Calvin  whole  at  a  mouthAil.  The  con^gation  at  Tot- 
tenham-street, when  Mr.  Berridge  preached,  were,  he  says, 
^<  much  like  the  mien  and  garb  of  an  undertaker,  rather  dismal 
than  dolorous."  He  had  been  hurried  from  London,  he  says, 
by  a  letter  from  Mr.  Hicks,  of  Wrestlingworth,  whose  wife  had 
died  very  suddenlv.  He  tells  Lady  Huntingdon  that  Mr. 
Reevesf  and  Mr.  rrior  had  been  elected  afternoon  lecturers  at 
White  Chapel,  salary  50/.  a  year,  duty  a  sermon  alternately  on 
Sunday  afternoons.  Mr.  Maxfield,  he  says,  grows  violent,  and 
Bell  recovers  his  delusion  apace,  bidding  fair  for  a  greater  en- 
thusiast than  ever.     He  speaks  highly  of  Mr.  Richardson  and 

"**  Dr.  Venn*8  son,  Edward  Venn,  Esq.,  married  his  cousin,  Charlotte  Maiy, 
^est  daughter  of  William  James  Oambier,  Esq.,  of  the  family  of  Lord 
Gambler. 

f  One  of  the  first  laj  preachers,  one  of  the  first  who  visited  Ireland,  and  was 
included  in  the  memorable  presentation  of  the  Grand  Jury  of  Cork,  in  1749. 
He  afterwards  obtained  episcopal  ordination,  and  was  for  some  years  minister 
of  Magdalen  UospitaL  Here,  however,  the  governors  forbad  his  preaching 
after  ms  own  manner,  and  constrained  him  to  read  from  time  to  time  a  ser- 
mon of  Archbishop  Tillotson.  When  he  became  a  lecturer  of  White  Chapel 
his  ministry  was  more  popular  and  uaeful,  an^  he  often  preached  at  Brighton, 
Oathall,  EvtttOD,  lie,  with  iiicctM, 

z2 


360  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

Mr.  Tilney,  and  concludes  his  long  but  amusing  letter  by  pro- 
mising a  speedy  return  to  the  Tabernacle. 

Lady  Huntingdon  continued  at  Brighton.  Her  friends,  Mrs. 
Carteret  and  Rlrs.  Cavendish,  were  her  inmates  there  in  the 
middle  of  September,  about  which  period  she  received  another 
letter  from  Mr.  Berridge,  dated  the  Tabernacle  House,  but  we 
do  not  think  it  necessary  to  make  any  further  extracts  fix)m  this 
interesting  correspondence. 


CHAPTER  XXL 

Mr.    Ronudne — Lectureship    at   St.    Dunstan^s— .Lord    Mansfield — Darkness 

visible The  Bishop  of  Peterborough — Popular  election — St  Ann^s,  Black- 

friars Probation  Sermon — Contest — Canvassing — Scrutiny — Second  elec- 
tion— Suit  in  Chancery — Gratitude  of  Lady  Huntingdon — Mr.  Jesse — Mr. 
Shiiiey — Mr.  Ilomaine*s  views  of  his  preferment — Lewes — Lady  Hunting- 
don procures  an  opening  for  Mr.  Romaine,  for  Mr.  Madan,  and  Mr.  Fletcher 
.-.Tlie  Oratorio — Musical  taste  of  Mr.  Madan  and  Dr.  Haweis — Lady 
Huntingdon's  Chapel  at  Lewes  opened — and  re-opened — Mr.  Mason — his 
work  on  the  Catechisnu^Mr.  Edwards  of  Ipswich— Mr.  Berridge  and  his 
Bees — Southey*s  Reflections — Their  Refutation..Character  of  Berridge — 
hb  wit — his  labours.«.Berridge  and  the  Bishop. 

At  the  be^nning  of  the  year  1764  Mr.  Romaine  was  preach- 
ing at  Brighton.  He  was  now  a  married  man,  and  blessed  with 
a  family,  yet  his  provision  from  the  church  amounted  to  no  more 
than  eighteen  pounds  a  year — such  was  the  value  of  his  only 
perfermcnt,  the  Lectureship  of  St.  Dunstan's.  But  he  was 
chaplain  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  and  had  many  pious  friends,  who 
proved  in  his  case  that  they  had  pondered  on  the  saying  "  They 
who  minister  at  the  altar  shall  liVe  by  the  altar."  He  was  be- 
sides singularly  abstemious,  a  grace  of  poverty  which  secured  to 
him  the  riches  of  confirmed  and  continued  health  throughout  a 
long  career  of  usefulness.  Even  the  paltry  pittance  we  have 
named  he  was  not  suffered  to  enjoy.  As  at  St  George's, 
Hanover-square,  so  at  St.  Dunstan's  his  preaching  offended  the 
rector,  who  always  took  possession  of  the  pulpit  before  the 
Liturgy  was  read  through,  to  prevent  Mr.  Romaine  from  preach- 
ing. He  appealed  to  the  law,  and  Lord  Mansfield,  decided  that 
he  could  not  be  excluded  from  the  pulpit :  yet  the  loose  decision 
of  the  judge  enabled  the  opposite  party  to  keep  the  church 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  ttUNTlKODON.  361 

closed  to  the  very  latest  moment,  which  they  failed  not  to  do, 
while  thousands  congregated  in  the  street,  and  no  sooner  were 
the  doors  opened  than  they  rushed  in,  to  the  great  peril  of  each 
other's  lives.  The  churchwardens  refused  to  light  the  church, 
or  suffer  it  to  be  lighted,  and  Mr.  Romaine  often  preached  by 
the  light  of  a  single  candle,  which  he  held  in  his  own  hand.* 
Ultimately,  by  the  influence  of  the  Bishop  of  Peterborough,  this 
vexatious  opposition  was  put  an  end  to,  and  be  was  sufiered  to 
see  his  congregation. 

About  this  time  occurred  a  popular  election  for  the  living  of 
St.  Ann's,  Blackfriars:  the  right  of  presentation  to  which  is 
vested  alternately  in  the  Crown  and  in  the  parishioners.  The 
last  incumbent  was  the  nephew  of  the  Lord  Chancellor  Henley, 
afterwards  Earl  of  Northington,  an  intimate  friend  of  Lady 
Huntingdon.  This  pious  young  clergyman  had  caught  a  putrid 
fever  while  visiting  a  parishioner  sufiering  under  that  disorder, 
and,  as  Mr.  Cadogan  tells  us,  died  suddenly  of  this  frightful  dis- 
order, after  he  had  held  the  living  six  years  and  a  half.  ^^  It  was 
immediately  impressed  on  my  mind,"  said  Lady  Huntingdon, 
"  that  Mr.  Henley's  vacancy  was  to  be  filled  by  dear  Mr.  Romaine.'* 
She  spoke  to  the  Lord  Chancellor,  and,  at  her  suggestion,  Mr. 
Thornton  and  Mr.  Madan  niade  interest  with  the  parishioners. 
Mr.  Romaine  was  absent  in  Yorkshire,  and  his  canvassers  fre- 
quently heard  his  pride  urged  against  him.  ^^  He,"  it  was  said, 
^*  disdains  to  ask  our  voices,  whue  the  candidate  in  canonicals 
comes  hat  in  hand,  bowing  from  door  to  door."f     On  the  SOth 

*  The  predecessor  of  Mr.  Romaine  was  Dr.  Terrick,  afterwards  Bishop  of 
Peterborough :  he  held  two  lectureships  in  the  same  church,  one  a  common 
parish  lectureship,  supported  by  voluntary  contribution,  the  other  founded  and 
endowed  by  Dr.  White  for  the  use  of  Benchers  of  the  Temple.     Mr.  Romaine 
had  been  elected  to  both,  but  Lord  Mansfield's  decision  deprived  him  of  the 
parish  lectureship,  while  it  confirmed  him  in  that  of  Dr.  White. 
^  f  His  allusion  to  this  complaint,  and  the  admirable  answer  to  it  in  his  proba- 
tion sermon,  we  think  it  right  to  extract  :-^"  Some  have  intimated  that  it  was 
from  pride  that  I  would  not  go  about  the  parish  from  house  to  house,  canvassing 
for  votes  ;  but  truly  it  was  another  motive.      I  could  not  see  how  this  could 
promote  the  glory  of  God.      How  can  it  be  for  the  honour  of  Jesus,  that  his 
ministers,  who  have  renounced  fame,  and  riches,  and  ease,  should  be  roost 
anxious  and  earnest  in  the  pursuit  of  those  very  things  which  they  have  re- 
nounced ?      Surely  this  would  be  getting  into  a  worldly  spirit,  as  much  as  the 
spirit  of  parliamenteering.      And  as  this  method  of  canvassing  cannot  be  for 
Jesus^s  sake,  so  neither  is  it  for  our  honour :   it  is  fisur  beneath  our  function. 
Nor  is  it  for  your  profit      What  good  is  it  to  your  souls  ?  what  compliment  to 
your  understandings  ?  what  advantage  to  you,  m  any  shape,  to  be  directed  and 
applied  to  by  every  person  with  whom  you  have  any  connexion,  or  on  whom 
you  have  any  dependence?     Is  not  this  depriving  you  of  the  freedom  of  your 
choice  ?     Determined  by  these  motives,  when  my  friends  of  their  own  accord 
put  me  up  as  a  candidate,  to  whom  I  have  to  this  hour  made  no  application, 
directly  or  indirectlv,  I  left  you  to  yourselves.     If  you  choose  me,  I  desire  to  be 
your  servant  for  Jesuali  Mdce;  and  if  you  do  not,  the  will  of  the  Ijord  be 
done." 


962  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

of  September,  1764,  the  candidates  were  to  preach  the  proba- 
tion sermon,  and  Mr.  Romaine  apprized  by  his  friends,  was  on 
the  spot  and  preached  from  these  words :  ^'  We  preach  not  our- 
selves, but  Christ  Jesus  the  Lord ;  and  ourselves  your  servants 
for  Jesus's  sake."  The  sermon  contained  the  truth,  the  whole 
truth,  and  nothing  but  the  truth,  as  it  is  in  Jesus.  His  friends, 
including  Lady  Huntingdon,  absented  themselves,  in  order  that 
the  regular  parishioners  might  not  be  incommoded  nor  have  any 
shadow  of  offence.  The  word  was  well  received,  and  was  after- 
wards printed,  at  the  request  of  the  parishioners.  The  election 
proceeded,  a  scrutiny  was  demanded,  but  the  qualification  of  the 
votes  could  not  be  settled ;  a  second  election  took  place,  Mr. 
Romaine  obtained  a  great  majority  of  unchallenged  votes,  but 
the  friends  of  the  opposite  candidates  raised  new  difficulties, 
and  the  matter  was  thrown  into  the  Court  of  Chancery. 

Pending  this  vexatious  suit,  Mr.  Romaine  preached  for  Lady 
Huntingdon  at  Brighton,  Oathall,  and  Bath,  and  took  a  journey 
into  Yorkshire  to  meet  her  Ladyship,  preaching  on  his  way  at 
Bretby,  Derby,  &c.  His  letters  to  Lady  Huntingdon  during 
this  suspense  mark  its  mfluence  on  his  mind.  In  one  letter  he 
solicits  her  Ladyship's  influence  with  two  quakers  named  Webb, 
who  had  great  power  with  the  voters.  His  friends,  he  says,  ac- 
cuse him  of  being  too  easy,  <<  but,  (  he  continues)  I  think  not. 
*  ♦  ♦  Blackfriars'  Church  is  desirable,  but  we  cannot 
tell  whether  Jesus  wants  it  or  not ;  if  he  does,  he  will  bring  it 
about:  if  not  his  will  be  done."  The  cause  was  put  off 
from  day  to  day ;  but  for  the  sake  of  order,  we  may  here  antici- 
pate the  due  chronological  course  of  our  narrative,  to  observe 
that  in  the  beginning  of  February,  J  766,  the  Lord  Chancellor 
Henley  finally  decreed  in  his  favour,  and  he  was  instituted  and 
inducted  accordingly.  During  the  ceremony  he  was  observed  to 
tremble,  and  it  is  well  known  that  numbers  of  his  congregation 
received  their  new  pastor  most  unwillingly ;  he  lived,  however,  to 
remove  all  their  prejudices,  and  to  bless  them  with,  as  well  as 
against,  their  own  consent  While  his  friends  were  wishing  him 
joy  of  this  preferment,  he  saw  it  in  a  different  light :  «  It  is  my 
Master's^will  (he  says)  and  I  submit."  To  Lady  Huntingdon  he 
writes : — 

^'  Now,  when  I  was  setting  up  my  rest,  and  bad  begun  to  say  unto 
my  soul, '  soul,  take  thine  cose/ 1  am  called  into  a  public  station,  and 
to  the  sharpest  engagement,  just  as  I  had  got  into  wmter  Quarters — an 
engagement  for  life.  I  can  see  nothing  before  me,  so  long  as  the 
breath  is  in  my  body,  but  war,  and  that  with  unreasonable  men,  a 
divided  parish,  an  an^ry  clergy,  a  wicked  Sodom,  and  a  wicked  world, 
all  to  be  resiitod  and  overcome:  betides  all  theoe^  a  sworn  enemyj 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF   HUNTINODOX ,  S6d 

subtle  and  cruel,  with  whom  I  can  make  no  peace,  no,  not  a  moment's 
truce,  night  and  day,  with  all  his  children  and  his  host  is  aiming  at 
my  destruction.  When  I  take  counsel  of  the  flesh  I  begin  to  faint ; 
but  when  I  go  to  the  sanctuair  I  sec  my  good  cause,  and  my  Master  is 
Almighty — a  tried  Friend,  and  then  he  makes  my  courage  revive.  Al- 
though I  am  no  way  fit  for  the  work,  yet  he  called  me  to  it,  and  on 
him  I  depend  for  strength  to  do  it  and  for  success  to  crown  it>  I  utterly 
despair  of  doing  anything  as  of  myself,  and  therefore  the  more  I  have  to 
do,  I  shall  be  forced  to  live  more  by  faith  upon  him.  In  this  view  I  hope  to 
get  a  greatincome  by  my  living.  I  shall  want  my  Jesus  more, and  shall 
get  closer  to  him.  As  he  has  made  my  application  to  him,  more  ue- 
C3ssary  and  more  constant,  ho  has  given  me  stronger  tokens  of  his  lovet 
Mcthinks  I  can  hear  his  sweet  voice — *  come  closer y  come  closer,  soul ! 
nearer  yet;  I  will  bring  i^ou  into  circumstances  that  you  cannot  do 
without  me  !" 

No  one  strove  more  on  his. side  or  rejoiced  more  in  his  success 
than  the  zealous  Countess  : — 

^^  Through  the  gracious  hand  of  God  (savs  her  Ladyship)  my  dear 
and  excellent  Romainc  has  at  length  succeccfcd,  and  the  decision  of  the 
Lord  Chancellor  has  put  to  silence  the  evil  clamours  of  his  unreason- 
able opponents." 

Mr.  Jesse,  who,  with  Mr.  Shirley,  was  then  at  Oathall,  says : — 

'^  We  have  had  quite  a  little  jubilee  on  the  confirmation  of  the  vali- 
dity of  our  dear  brother  Romaine's  electiou.  Never  have  I  seen  more 
heartfelt  joy  and  gratitude  than  was  expressed  on  that  occasion  by  her 
Ladyship.  I  verily  believe  that  if  Mr.  Romaine  had  not  gained  his 
election  the  disappointment  and  vexation  would  have  well  nigh  killed 
her." 

His  success  was  ample,  he  was  heard  with  reverence  by  his 
parishioners,  and  vast  sums  were  distributed  out  of  their  com<« 
munion  offerings.  The  neglect,  by  the  then  rulers  of  the 
Church,  of  such  men  as  Romainc,  Walker  of  Truro,  Adams  of 
Wintringham,  Venn,  Newton,  Shirley,  Townsend,  Haweis, 
Grimshaw,  Berridge,  Madan,  Fletcher,  Talbot,  Conyers, 
Pentycross,  Milner,  Jesse,  and  others,  should  be  a  lesson  to 
the  candid  diocesan  and  Church  patrons  of  our  day. 

In  the  beginning  of  the  year  1765  the  Countess  of  Hunting- 
don, ever  active  in  well  doing,  began  to  concert  measures  for  in- 
troducing the  Gospel  into  the  town  of  Lewes,  where  already  her 
Brighton  chaplains  had  reaped  fruit.  She  first  obtained  for 
Mr.  Romaine  one  of  the  pulpits,  where  his  preaching  gave 
great  umbrage;  he  afterwards  preached  in  a  large  room,  and 
ultimately  in  the  open  fields: — 

^  All  gave  earnest  heed  (said  her  Ladyship)  while  he  applied  those 
solemn  words^  *  Behold  the  jLamb  of  God  that  taketh  away  the  sins  of 


364  tHE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

the  world.*     I  did  not  see  one  careless  or  inattentive  person,  and  there 
is  reason  to  think  that  many  poor  sinners  were  cut  to  the  heart." 

But  her  Ladyship,  in  all  her  continued  efiForts  to  serve  the 
Master  who  had  washed  her  from  sin,  never  exalts,  but  debases 
herself,  and  considers  her  best  exertions  valueless  in  his  sight* 
In  February  her  Ladyship  was  in  London,  at  the  residence  of  ^ 
Lady  Fanny  Shirley,  and,  in  company  with  her  chaplains, 
attended  the  performance  of  Ruth,  an  oratorio,  at  the  Lock 
Chapel.  Mr.  Madan  and  Dr.  Haweis  were  both  extremely 
musical,  and  composers.  The'music  of  "  Before  Jehovah's  awful 
throne" — "  From  all  that  dwell  below  the  skies" — "  Salvation  ! 
O  the  joyful  sound !" — "  To  God,  the  only  wise" — and  many 
others  by  Mr.  Madan,  are  well  known  and  deservedly  popular. 
She  returned  to  Brighton,  and  thence  to  Lewes,  and  obtained 
there  a  pulpit  for  Mr.  Madan  and  Mr.  Fletcher.  The  clergy 
opposed  them  violently,  and  they  betook  themselves  to  a  large 
room,  where  they  preached  alternately  to  great  numbers.  Very 
soon,  however.  Lady  Huntingdon,  erected  a  chapel,  which  was 
opened  on  the  13th  of  August,  1765,  by  Mr.  Peck  well,  Mr. 
Pentycross,  and  the  Rev.  George  Burder,  then  a  member  of  the 
Tabernacle  and  about  to  enter  on  his  ministerial  career.  The 
chapel  was  regularly  supplied  by  the  ministers  of  Lady  Hunting- 
don's Connexion.  Mr.  Jones,  a  student  of  Trevecca,  occupied 
it  for  some  time,  and  thirty  years  after  Dr.  Peckwell's  opening, 
it  was  re-opened  by  the  Rev.  G.  S.  White,  of  Cheshunt,  on  the 
21st  of  July,  1805. 

Mr.  William  Mason,  who  had  been  brought  to  a  knowledge  of 
the  light  by  the  Rev.  John  Wesley,  and  had  been  a  class  leader 
in  his  Connexion,  having  attended  the  Tabernacle,  and  hearing 
Mr.  Whitefield  and  other  Calvinistic  preachers,  withdrew  from 
Mr.  Wesley.  It  was  about  this  time  that  he  published  *'  A 
Letter  to  the  Rev.  Dr.  Free,  on  the  morality  and  divinity  con- 
tained in  certain  articles  proposed  by  the  Doctor  to  the  Court  of 
Assistants  of  the  Worshipful  Company  of  Salters."  This  letter 
was  a  de  ence  of  his  honoured  and  much  esteemed  friends,  the 
Rev.  Mr.  Romaine  and  Mr.  Jones.  He  was  a  magistrate  of  the 
county  of  Surrey,  and  resided  at  Rotherhithe  Wall,  whence  he 
addressed  to  Lady  Huntingdon  an  apology  for  declining  an  invi- 
tation to  Brighton.     This  letter  is  dated  January  26,  1765  : — 

"  Many  thanks  (he  says)  for  your  Ladyship's  honour  done  me  in  the 
third  invitation  to  Brighlhelrastone.  How  hdppy  should  I  be,  if  I  may 
he  permitted  an  excursion  from  business  to  embrace  it.  Our  dear  Mr. 
Romaine  is  elected  to  Blackfriars,  134  against  105.  I  heard  from 
dear  Mrs.  Romaine  last  week,  when  I  dined  there,  that  your  Ladyship 


SELIKA)  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  365 

is  bringing  up  a  little  company  for  Jesus.     Have  you  seen  my  poor 
thoughts  on  a  sermon  and  catechism  for  children  V* 

In  April  Mr.  Romaine  again  visited  Brighton,  and  was  aided 
in  carrying  out  the  pious  views  of  Lady  Huntingdon  by  the  Rev. 
Howel  Davies  and  the  Rev.  Peter  Williams.  At  Worthing 
several  clergymen  attempted  to  excite  a  riot  while  Mr.  Davies 
was  preaching,  and  not  succeeding  in  their  efforts,  went  away, 
threatening  revenge  on  the  first  Methodist  parson  they  might 
meet.  What  a  contrast  does  this  conduct  afford  to  that  of  Mr. 
Edwards  of  Ipswich,  a  dissenting  minister,  who,  having  been  re- 
commended to  Lady  Huntingdon  by  Mr.  Williams,  was  invited 
by  her  Ladyship  to  visit  her  at  Brighton.  "  I  have  no  objection 
to  truth  from  the  lips  of  a  Dissenter  (said  her  I-»adyship),  pro- 
vided he  has  no  design  to  form  a  party."  To  this  Mr.  Edwards 
replied : — 

^'  With  an  incessant  dependence  on  the  Divine  Spirit,  I  desire  that 
my  whole  thoughts,  aims,  and  endeavours,  in  the  course  of  my  minis- 
try, may  be  to  lead  the  minds  of  the  people  to  Jesus  Christ's  person^ 
offices,  character,  &c.,  and  to  lay  no  manner  of  stress  upon  the  out- 
skirts of  religion,  and,  like  your  Ladyship,  practise  what  I  explode ; 
that  thereby  the  fury  of  bigotry  may  be  tamed  and  subdued,  and,  under 
the  blessing  of  God,  a  spirit  of  love  may  be  kindled  towards  all  who 
love  Jesus  Christ  in  sincerity.     Notwithstanding  the  sad  divisions  that 
are  in  the  Church,  yet  the  children  of  God  are  one  :  one  in  relation — 
one  family — one  flock,  and,  as  far  as  they  are  sanctified,  one  in  image 
and  likeness— -one  in  their  aims  and  requests — one  in  friendship— one 
in  interest  and  inheritance.     It  is  a  pity,  then,  that  any  should  have  a 
narrow  spirit,  or  any  alienation  of  affection  between  them,  seeing  that 
thev  have  but  one  common  interest  to  engage  in.     However,  I  have 
had  repeated  evidences,  from  many  parts  of  the  kingdcr.i,  llat  your 
Ladyship's  trulv  catholic  spirit  has  influenced  many ;  and  a  review  of 
that  evangehcal  temper  which  you  cultivate  will  afford  an  inward  satis- 
faction, which  applause  cannot  give,  or  censure  take  away.     What  a 
great  historian  says  of  Vespasian  is  equally  applicable  to  your  Lady- 
ship— that  your  noble  descent  and  your  rich  abundance  have  changed 
nothing  in  you  but  this,  that  your  power  of  doing  good  is  made  in  some 
degree  to  answer  your  will,  counting  it  a  greater  honour  to  lay  out 
for  God  than  to  lay  up  for  yourselves.     May  your  life  upon  earth  con- 
tinue to  a  very  distant  period — the  life  of  faith  continually  increase, 
and  may  you  daily  enjoy  in  rich  abundance  that  unction  from  the 
Holy  One  ;  and  at  last  with  a  full  gale  enter  the  harbour  of  eternal 
glorv.     These  wishes,  as  they  are  the  agreeable  employ  of  my  thoughts, 
so  they  are  the  earnest  prayer  of  madam,  your  Ladyship's,  &c."* 

•  The  letter  from  which  this  extract  is  made  is  dated  Ipswich,  May  8, 1765. 
The  Rev.  David  Edwards  was  originally  fixed  at  Su  Neot*s,  near  Evert  on  and 
Coiling,  where  he  became  the  friend  and  correspondent  of  Mr.  Bcnridge  and 
Mr.  Venn.  He  went  to  Ipswich,  and  remained  there  till  1791;  and  died  at  Wul- 
ton-under-Edge,  1795. 


866  THE  UFS  ANP  TUf£S  OF 

During  this  summer  tbe  number  of  Lady  Huntingdon's  clerical 

Siests  at  Brighton  and  Oathall  was  increased  by  the  risit  of  the 
ev.  Edward  Spencer,  afterwards  the  celebrated  rector  of 
Winkfield,  near  Bradford,  in  Wiltshire.  At  the  time  of  which 
we  speak,  he  was  curate  to  Dr.  Chapman,  of  Bradford,  master 
St.  John's  Hospital,  Bath.  His  preaching  ^as  appealed  against 
as  raethodistical,  and  complaints  made  to  Dr.  Hume,  Bishop  of 
Salisbury.  He  was  inrited  by  Lady  Huntingdon  to  join  her 
Connexion;  but  with  all  respect  and  devotion  he  declined  this 
offer,  feeling  that  within  the  pale  of  regularity  he  might  encounter 
offence  and  woriw  his  master's  business.  During^  this  summer  her 
Ladyship  opened  her  chapels  at  Bretby  and  Bath,  and  did  not 
return  to  her  beloved  Brighton  till  November.  In  that  month 
Mr.  Romaine  addressed  to  her  Ladyship  a  letter  which  com- 
menced thus : — 

*'  Dear  and  honoured  in  our  eternally  precioos  Jesos,  gnce  be  to  yoo. 
His  mercies  fail  not  He  is  exceedingly,  accordinf  to  his  infinite  na- 
tore,  kind  and  good  to  me  and  mine.  In  temporal  beyond  cor  bopc9. 
Here  we  are  at  home  in  safety,  and  in  waut  of  nothing.  In  spiritonls, 
he  is  a  Saviour  to  os,  and  what  woold  we  more  T 

Haring^  spent  the  winter  of  1765  between  Brighton  and  Oat- 
hall, her  Lad\-ship,  eariy  in  the  spring  of  1766,  appUed  to  Xlr. 
Hicks,  rector  of  Wrestlingworth,  to  supply  her  chapels  for  a 
time.  Her  Lad\-ship's  request  was  made  through  Mr.  Berridge, 
under  date  of  I^ebruary  12th«  and  a  few  days  afterwards  he 
addressed  to  her  Ladvship  one  of  hi":  able  but  eceentric  notes, 
declining  not  only  for  \ir.  Hicks  but  for  himself  her  Ladyship's 
inritation : — 

^  As  to  myself  (be  says),  I  am  now  determineti  cot  to  quit  my  cfaai;ge 
a^ain  in  a  harry.  Never  do  1  leave  my  bees;,  iLou^h  for  a  short  space 
only^  but  at  my  return  I  tiod  them  either  c&stiiu  and  colting,  or  %bt> 
ing  and  robbing  each  other;  no;  gatbcriuj  Lonoy  from  every  dou'er  in 
God's  garden,  but  filling  the  air  w  iUi  tlieir  buizings,  and  tiarung  out 
the  venom  of  their  liitle  hearts  in  ihcir  fierv  stiurs.  X;;v,  so  iudamed 
they  often  are,  and  a  mighty  liiUe  thi;^^  di>turl>s  tLenu  that  three 
months'  tinkling  cfien\^knls  with  a  wanning-pan  will  scarce  hive  them  at 
last,  and  noakc  them  settle  to  work  again.  TLcy  are  coir  in  a  mighty 
fenneut,  occa;^icncd  by  tbe  souuilii^g  brass  of  a  Welsh  Dveb,*  who  luui 
done  me  the  same  kind  office  at  Evcrton  that  he  has  done  my  friend  at 
Tottenham.  "lis  a  pity  he  should  have  the  charge  of  anything  but 
wafpf  ;  these  he  might  allure  into  the  treacle  pot  and  step  in  befoie 
them  himself,  but  he  never  wLl  til  a  hive  \nth  hone  v." 

He  goes  on  thus  figuratively  to  warn  her  Ladvship  against 
the  Independents  and  Baptists,  and  other  Dissenters,  mho  were 

•  Ber.  G.  Dyer,  kcturer  of  Sc  Geoi;^  the  Ifattjr. 


SELINA)  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  367 

at  that  time  alluring  the  congregations  from  her  Ladyship's 
chapels. 

This  singular  style  of  Mr.  Berridge  has  led  Mr.  Soulhey  to 
call  him  a  ^^  buffoon  as  well  as  fanatic."    He  was  neither.    Lady 
Huntingdon  invited  him  repeatedly  to  meet  at  her  house  the 
elegant  and   the  courtly,  and  Mr.  Whitefield  called  him   an 
"  angel  of  the  Church,"  indeed  employing  him  repeatedly  as  his 
own  substitute  at  Tottenham-court  Chapel  and  the  Tabernacle. 
The  late  Mr.  Simeon,  of  Cambridge,  did  not  think  so,  when 
he  preached  his  funeral  sermon.     Clare  Hall  did  not  think  him 
either,  when  it  presented  him  to  the  vicarage  of  Everton.     But 
his  office  of  Moderator  is  abundant  proof  that  he  was  neither  a 
buffoon  or  fanatic.     Unhappily  for  Southey,  when  he  ventured 
to  write  the  life  of  Wesley,  he  was  ignorant  both  of  the  men  and 
the  subject  he  handled.     Mr.  Watson  has  taught  him  a  lesson, 
which  he  will  remember  to  the  last  hour  of  his  existence ;  and 
the  exclamation  of  George  the  Fourth,  on  the  perusal  of  Mr. 
Watson's  defence  of  Wesley — "  Oh  !   my  poor  Poet  Laureat ! 
my  poor  Poet  Laureat  I" — must  have  been  cutting  to  Southey. 
Berridge  was  not  such  a  buffoon  as  South,  nor  sucn  a  punster  as 
Donne,  nor  such  a  satirist  as  Lavington.  His  wit  never  wounded 
a  penitent,  nor  hardened  a  sinner.     It  disturbed  many  a  solemn 
drone,  and  mortified  the  self-righteous ;  but  it  never  intimidated 
the  humble,  nor  led  the  wea£  to  confound  Methodism  with 
hypocrisy.     He  was  constitutionally  mercurial^  and  his  perfect 
scholarship,  as  a  classic^  enabled  him  to  give  point  to  piquant 
thoughts:  for  he  was  equally  familiar  with  Aristotelian  and 
Aristophanic  Greek ;  and  there  will  be  some  buffoonery  when- 
ever the  latter  is  understood.     He  did  not,  however, 
"  Win  a  grin,  where  he  should  woo  a  soul.'' 

He  often  caused  a  smile  that  he  might  create  a  tear :  a  hazardous 
if  not  an  unwarrantable  experiment  in  the  pulpit.  In  learning  he 
was  inferior  to  very  few  of  tne  most  celebrated  sons  of  science  and 
literature  at  the  University :  his  masculine  ability,  his  uniform 
sobriety,  and  long  residence  at  college,  were  favourable  to  im- 
provement ;  and  so  insatiable  was  his  thirst  for  knowledge,  that 
from  his  entrance  at  Clare  Hall  to  his  acceptance  of  the  vicar- 
age of  Everton  he  regularly  studied  fifteen  hours  a  day  !  The 
late  Mr.  Venn,  who  had  been  in  habits  of  intimacy  with  him 
from  their  admission  into  college,  has  declared  "  that  he  was  as 
familiar  with  the  learned  languages  as  he  was  with  his  mother- 
tongue.'*  He  also  added — "  That  he  could  be  under  no  temp- 
tation to  court  respect  by  itinerant  preaching,  for  he  merited 
and  enjoyed  thai  in  a  high  de^ee  among  all  ranks  of  the  liter- 
ary professions  at  the  University.'' 


368  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  O^ 

The  mode  of  his  public  ministrations  was  emphatically  original. 
He  evidently  observed  method  in  all  his  sermons ;  but  it  was 
unhackneyed.  It  was  not  his  custom  to  arrange  his  subjects  under 
general  heads  of  discourse  ;  but  when  he  made  the  attempt,  his 
divisions  would  be  particularly  natural,  and  rimdiy  adhered  to. 
As  he  rarely  allegorized,  or  accommodated  the  Scriptures,  he 
was  less  liable  to  mistake  their  meaning.  He  seldom  referred  to 
their  original  text ;  but  when  he  did  his  remarks  were  pertinent. 
In  his  discussion  of  general  topics,  his  figures  were  new,  his 
illustrations  apposite,  and  his  arguments  conclusive.  Though 
he  obtained  the  just  reputation  of  being  a  learned  man,  and  was 
conversant  with  all  the  beauties  of  language,  so  ardent  was  his 
desire^of  doing  good  to  his  most  illiterate  nearers,  that  he  laid 
aside  an  affected  style  of  elegance,  and  from  principle  cultivated 
an  easy  and  familiar  diction. 

His  stature  was  tall,  but  not  awkward — his  make  was  lusty, 
but  not  corpulent — his  Toice  deep,  but  not  hoarse — strong,  but 
not  noisy — iiis  pronunciation  was  distinct,  but  not  broad.     In 
his  countenance  there  was  gravity  without  grimace.    His  address 
was  solemn,  but  not  sour — easy,  but  not  careless — deliberate, 
but  not  drawling — pointed,  but  not  personal — affectionate,  but 
not  fawning.      He  would  often  weep,  but   never  whine :    his 
sentences  were  short,  but  not  ambiguous — his  ideas  were  col- 
lected, but  not  crowded.     Upon  the  whole,  his  manner  and 
person  were  agreeable  and  majestic.     But  what  transcended  all 
the  above  excellences,  and  gave  him  such  an  ascendency  in  the 
consciences  of   his  numerous    hearers,  were  the  doctrines  he 
taught,  together  with  their  unbounded  influence  upon  all  the 
powers  of  his  mind  and  transactions  of  his  life.     Deep  necessity 
compelled  him  to  embrace  and  preach  Jesus  Christ ;  and  the 
same  necessity  led  him  into  more  enlarged  discoveries  of  his 
grace.      Living  under   their  perpetual  control,  and  enjoying 
uieir  ineffable  sweetness,  he  was  not  only  willing  to  impart  the 
truths  of  the  everlasting  Gospel,  but  to  consecrate  himself  to 
the  service  of  his  Lord  and  the  souls  of  men.     For  twenty-four 
years  he  continued  to  ride  nearly  one  hundred  miles  and  to  preach 
some  ten  or  twelve  sermons  every  week.  At  home,  for  his  hearers 
who  came  from  a  distance,  his  Uihle  was  served  and  his  stables 
open  for  their  horses,  and  abroad,  houses  and  barns  were  rented, 
lay  preachers  supplied,  and  his  own  expenses  paid  out  of  his  own 
pocket.     His  ear  was  ever  attentive  to  the  tale  of  woe,  his  eye 
was  keen  to  observe  the  miseries  of  the  poor,  the  law  of  kindness 
was  written  upon  his  heart,  and  his  hand  was  always  ready  to 
administer  relief.     The  gains  of  his  vicarage,  of  his  fellowship, 
and  of  his  patrimonial  income  (for  bis  father  died  very  rich,)  and 


SELINAy  CfOUNTESS  OF  UUNtlKGDON.  869 

even  his  family  plate,  were  appropriated  to  support  his  liberality. 
He  was  always  a  favourite  with  Lady  Huntingdon.  Her  con- 
versation and  correspondence  with  him  were  greatly  blessed  to 
his  profit  and  advantage,  and  instrumental,  under  the  divine 
blessing,  in  leading  him  to  clearer  and  more  consistent  views  of 
the  plan  of  salvation,  and  of  preaching  the  whole  counsel  of  God 
with  greater  boldness  and  clearness.  To  her  he  was  indebted 
for  much  spiritual  light,  and  her  liberality  in  other  matters  was 
felt  and  acknowledged  by  him. 

"  Soon  after  I  began  to  preach  the  Gospel  at  Everton  (says 
Mr.  Berridge)  the  churches  m  the  neighbourhood  were  deserted, 
and  mine  so  overcrowded,  that  the  'squire,  who  *  did  not  like 
strangers,'  he  said,  <  and  hated  to  be  incommoded/  joined  with 
the  offended  parsons,  and  soon  after,  a  complaint  having  been 
made  against  me,  I  was  summoned  before  the  bishop.^^  Well, 
Berridge  (said  his  lordship),  did  I  institute  you  to  Eaton  or 
Pottenr^  Why  do  you  go  preaching  out  of  your  own  parish? 
*  My  lord  (says  I),  I  make  no  claims  to  the  living  of  those 
parishes ;  'tis  true  I  was  once  at  Eaton,  and,  finding  a  few  poor 
people  assembled,  I  admonished  them  to  repent  of  their  sins,  and 
to  believe  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  for  the  salvation  of  their  souls. 
At  that  very  moment,  my  lord,  there  were  five  or  six  cler^men 
out  of  their  own  parishes,  and  enjoying  themselves  on  the  Eaton 
bowling-^en.'     *  I   tell   you    (retorted  his  lordship),   that  if 

J^ou  continue  preaching  where  you  have  no  right,  you  will  very 
ikely  be  sent  to  Huntingdon  gaol.'     *  I  have  no  more  regard, 
my  lord,  for  a  gaol  than  other  folks  (rejoined  I),   but  I  had 
rather  go  there  with  a  good  conscience,  than  be  at  liberty  with- 
out one.'     His  lordship  looked  very  hard  at  me  *  Poor  fellow  ! 
(said  he),  you  are  beside  yourself,  and  in  a  few  months  you  will 
either  be  better  or  worse.'     *Then,  my  lord,  (said  I),  you  may 
make  yourself  quite  happy  in  this  business ;  for  if  I  should  be 
better,  you  suppose  I  shall  desist  of  my  own  accord,  and  if  worse, 
you  need  not  send  me  to  Huntingdon  gaol,  for  I  shall  be  better 
accommodated  in  Bedlam.'      His    lordship    then  pathetically 
entreated  me,  as  one  who  had  been  and  wished  to  continue  my 
friend,  not  to  embitter  the  remaining  portion  of  his  days  by  any 
squabbles  with  my  brother  clergymen,  but  to  go  home  to  my 
parish,  and  so  long  as  I  kept  within  it  I  should  be  at  liberty  to 
do  what  I  liked  there  :  *  As  to  your  conscience  (said  his  lord- 
ship), you  know  that  preaching  out  of  your  parish  is  contrary  to 
the  canons   of  the   Church.'     There  is  one  canon,  my  lord, 
(said  I),  which  I  dare  not  disobey,  and  that  says,  '  Go  preach 
the  Gospel  to  every  creature.'  '* 

The  bishop  was  displeased,  but  Berridge  gave  himself  little 


370  THX  Lin  AND  TIMS8  OF 

uneasiness  on  the  subject ;  in  the  mean  while  an  old  friend,  a 
fellow  of  Clare  Hall,  who  was  very  intimate  with  Pitt  (after^ 
wards  Lord  Chatham),  stimulated  him  to  exert  his  influence 
with  a  nobleman  who  had  been  the  means  of  the  bishop's  pro- 
motion. This  noble  lord  immediately  applied  to  the  bisnop 
in  behalf  of  Berridge,  and,  notwithstanding  the  efforts  of  his 
numerous  enemies,  the  good  man  was  suffered  to  occupy  *^  the 
lines  which  had  fallen  to  him  in  pleasant  places."  Although, 
however,  Mr.  Berridge  attributes  nis  triumph  over  the  'squire 
and  his  party  to  the  influence  of  Mr.  Pitt,  we  must  not  fbqget 
that  Lord  Chancellor  Henley,  who  had  promoted  the  bishop 
(Dr.  John  Green)  to  the  see  of  Lincoln,  was  the  friend  of  Lady 
Huntingdon,  and  that  to  her  Ladyship's  application  Mr.  Berridge 
owed  the  interference  with  the  bishop  oi  nis  immediate  patron, 
an  influence  not  inferior  to  that  of  the  renowned  Earl  ot  Chat- 
ham. To  this  Mr.  Grimshaw  alludes  in  a  letter  of  this  period, 
when  he  says — ^^  May  the  Lord  eternally  bless  that  dear,  good, 
honourable  Lady  Huntingdon,  who  would  defend  a  persecuted 
minister  of  Christ  to  the  last  gown  on  her  back  and  the  last 
shilling  in  her  pocket." 

In  the  beginning  of  this  year  her  Ladyship  came  from  Brighton 
to  London,  and  went  thence  to  Bath,  returning  to  town  in  July. 
One  of  Mr.  Berridge's  very  singular  but  powerful  letters  was 
addressed  to  her  Ladyship  in  that  month.     It  refers,  among 
other  matters,  to  the  fatal  illness  of  Mr.  Beckman,  a  particular 
friend  of  Mr.  Whitefield's,  who,  with  Messrs.  Keene  and  Hardy, 
managed  the  affairs  of  the  Tabernacle  and   Tottenham-court 
Chapel.     We  would  quote  this  letter  at  length,  but  fear  lest  we 
should  be  thought  to  have  already  trespassed  too  long  on  the 
patience  of  the  reader  with  the  eccentric  and  self-condemning 
letters  of  this  excellent  and  amiable  but  very  original  writer. 
It  is  a  duty,  however,  which  the  biographer  cannot  with  pro- 
priety neglect,  to   let  men  paint  themselves.     The  Christian 
cannot  take  oflence  at  the  exhibition  of  Christian  weakness.     If 
any  such   weak  brother  be  offended  by  the  quaint  strength  of 
Mr.  Berridge's  epistolary  language,  let  him  remember  how  the 
Apostles  speak  of  their  own  weakness  and  that  of  each  other, 
and  let  self-examination  lead  to  better  thoughts   and   milder 
judgments.     The  exuberant  humour  of  Berridge,  and  his  very 
figurative  and  even  whimsical  mode  of  illustration,  should  act 
as  a  warning  on  all  who  feel  any  tendency  to  singularity  in  this 
way.     Let  them  remember,  whether  in  writing  or  in  speaking, 
this  sacred  injunction — in  doctrine  show  incorruptness,  gravity^ 
and  sincerity. 

We  have  before  us  a  series  of  letters,  a  correspondence  be* 


8ELINA9  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  371 

tween  Mr.  Berridge  and  Mr.  Thornton.  The  first  of  the  letters 
to  which  we  allude  is  dated  Everton,  Sfeptember  21,  1775,  and 
in  it  Berridge  gives  a  whimsical  account  of  his  loss  of  a  tooth, 
of  the  ill  effects  of  this  loss  on  his  utterance,  of  his  supplying 
the  cavity  with  bees'  wax,  which  fell  out  in  the  midst  of  a  sermoni 
and  compelled  him  to  conclude  abruptly  in  horror  of  the  hissing 
and  indistinct  sounds  he  uttered.  He  goes  on  quaintly  to  relate 
a  struggle  between  himself  and  Lady  Pride,  who  advises  him 
to  go  to  London  and  have  a  new  tooth,  but  to  apply  to  Mr. 
Thornton  to  advance  10/.,  which  would  be  necessary  for  the 
journey  and  the  operation.  To  this  curious  letter  of  the  vicar 
of  Everton  the  following  delightful  and  instructive  reply  was 
sent  by  Mr.  Thornton,  under  date  of  Clapham,  October 
17,  1775:— 

''  TO  THB  RBV.  JOHN  BBRRIDOB. 

'^  Dear  Sir, — Your  favour,  \vith  the  enclosed  note,  I  received :  wo 
merchants  are  better  taught  than  to  be  offended  at  any  that  inclose  us 
good  bank  bills,  for  they  are  always  acceptable ;  there  is  more  danger 
of  my  being  awkward  in  the  acknowledgement  of  the  receipt  than 
offended.  I  recollect  but  one  instanfce  that  any  of  your  cloth  put  me  to 
the  test,  and  that  was  through  roguery,  so  I  did  let  it  travel  bock  again 
to  Dr.  Shylock,  but  I  promise  you  I  have  not  a  thought  of  it  now.  I 
shall  only  add,  I  thank  you  for  the  opportunity,  and  desire  you  mil  be 
free  with  me  at  all  times. 

In  some  discussions  we  have  had  relative  to  *  The  Christian  World 
Unmasked,*  1  tfould  not  help  laughing  \vith  you,  though  at  the  same 
time  I  felt  a  check  within ;  your  reasons  silenced,  but  did  not  satisfy 
me.  Your  vein  of  humour  and  mine  seem  much  alike ;  if  there  is  any 
difference  between  us,  it  lies  here,  I  would  strive  against  mine,  while 
you  seem  to  indulge  yours.  I  fight  against  mine,  because  I  find  the 
ludicrous  spirit  is  just  as  dangerous  as  the  sullen  one :  and  it  is  much 
the  same  to  our  great  adversary,  whether  he  falls  in  with  a  capricious 
or  facetious  turn  of  mind.  I  could  not  forbear  smiling  at  your  humor- 
ous allegory  about  the  tooth,  and  was  pleased  at  the  good  sense  dis- 
played in  it ;  yet  something  came  across  my  mind — Is  this  method 
agreeable  to  the  idea  we  ought  to  entertain  of  a  Father  in  Israel  ?  It 
would  pass  mighty  well  in  a  newspaper,  or  anything  calculated  for 
public  entertainment ;  butitcertainlvwanted  thatsoHdity  or  seriousness 
that  a  Christian  minister  should  wntc  with.  What  the  Apostle  said 
in  another  sense,  will  apply  here,  '  When  I  was  a  child,  I  spake  as  a 
child,'  &c.  An  expression  of  yours  in  your  prayer  before  sermon,  when 
at  Tottenham-court,  struck  me  ;  that  God  would  give  us  new  bread ^ 
not  stale^  but  what  was  baked  in  the  oven  that  day.  Whether  it  is  that 
I  am  too  little,  or  you  too  much  used  to  such  expressions,  I  won't  pre- 
tend to  determine ;  but  I  could  not  help  thinking  it  savoured  of  atten- 
tion to  men  more  than  to  God.     I  know  the  apology  frequently  made 


372  THE  LIFE  AND  TIfiCES  OF 

for  such  language  is,  that  the  common  people  require  it,  it  fixes  their 
attention,  and  affords  matter  for  conversation  aften^'ards ;  for  a  sentence 
out  of  the  common  road  is  more  rememhered  than  all  the  rest     This 
may  he  true ;  hut  the  effect  it  has  is  only  a  loud  langh  among  their 
acquaintances,  not  one  person  is  edified,  and  many  arc  offended  by  such 
like  expressions.      Some  ministers  I  have  known  run  into  the  other 
extreme,  and  think  something  grand  must  he  uttered  to  strike  the 
audience ;  hut  this  seems  to  me  as  unnecessary  as  the  other,  and  both 
have  a  twang  of  self-conceit,  and  seem  like  leaning  to  carnal  wisdom. 
Truth,  simple  truth,  requires  no  embellishments,  nor  should  it  be 
degraded ;  we  are  not  to  add  or  to  take  from  it,  but  to  remember  the 
power  is  of  God  wholly.     My  reverend  friend,  as  an  old  man,  might  be 
indulged  in  his  favourite  peculiarities,  if  they  would  stop  with    him  : 
but  others  catch  the  infection,  and  we  find  young  ministers  and  com- 
mon people  indulging  themselves  in  jthc  same  way :  they  think  they 
are  authorised  so  to  do  by  such  an  example.      Wit  in  any  person  is 
dangerous  and  often  mischievous,  when  used  improperly,  and  especially 
on  religious  subjects  ;  for  as  the  professing  part  of  an  audience  will 
much  longer  retain   a  witty   or   a  low  expression,  than    one  more 
serious ;  so  will  the  wicked  part  of  it  too,  and  turn  it  to  the  disadvan- 
tage of  religion.  I  recollect  but  one  humorous  passage  in  all  the  Bible, 
which  is  that  of  Elijah  with  the  Boalites ;  and  when  the  time,  place^ 
and   circumstances  are    properly  considered^  nothing   could  be  more 
seasonable,  nothing  so  effectually  expose  the  impotency  of  their  false 
god,   and  the  absurdity  of  their  vain  worship.     The  prophets  often 
speak  ironically,  sometimes  satirically,  but  I  do  not  remember  of  their 
ever  speaking  ludicrously.      Our  Lord  and  his  apostles  never  had  re- 
course to  any  such  methods.     The   short   abstracts  \^  have  of  their 
sermons  and  conversations  are  all  in  serious  strain,  and  ministers  can- 
not copy  after  better  examples.      I  dare  not  say  that  giving  liberty  to 
a  man's  natural  turn,  or  an  endeavour  to  put  and  keep  the  people  in 
good  humour,  is  sinful ;  but  this  I  mav  assert,  such  a  method  is  univer- 
sally followed  on  the  stage,  and  in  all  places  of  public  entertainment; 
and  therefore  it  seems  to  me  to  savour  much  more  of  the  old  man  than 
of  the  new. 

"  I  reraeniher  you  once  jocularly  informed  me  vou  was  born  with  a 
a  fool's  cap  on  :  pray,  my  dear  sir,  is  it  not  high  time  it  was  pulled  off? 
Such  an  accoutrement  may  suit  a  natural  birth  and  be  of  service,  but 
surely  it  has  nothing  to  do  with  a  spiritual  one,  nor  ever  can  be  made 
ornamental  to  a  serious  man,  much  less  to  a  Christian  minister.  I 
waive  mentioning  Scripture  injunctions,  such  as  '  Let  your  speech  be 
with  grace,'  &c.,  as  you  know  these  better  than  I  do.  Surely  they 
should  have  some  weight,  for  idle  and  unprofitable  words  stand  forbid- 
den. If  it  should  please  God  to  give  you  to  see  things  as  I  do,  you 
will  think  it  necessary  to  be  more  guarded ;  hut  should  you  think  me 
mistaken,  I  trust  it  will  make  no  interruption  in  our  friendship  that  I 
am  thus  free  with  you,  as  it  ])roceeds  from  a  sincere  love  and  regard. 
The  Taheniacle  people  are  in  general  wild  and  enthusiastic,  and  delight 
in  any  thing  out  of  the  common,  which  is  a  temper  of  mind,  though  in 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OP  HUKTINGDON.  373 

some  respects  necessary,  yet  should  never  be  encouraged.  If  you  and 
some  few  others,  who  have  the  greatest  influence  over  them,  wouhl 
use  the  curb  instead  of  the  spur,  I  am  persuaded  the  effect  would  be 
very  blessed.  Wild  fire  is  better  than  no  fire ;  but  there  is  a  divine 
warmth  between  these  two  extremes  which  the  real  Christian  catches, 
and  which  when  obtained  is  evidenced  by  a  cool  head  and  a  warm 
heart,  and  makes  him  a  glorious  shining  example  to  all  around  him. 
I  desire  to  be  earnest  in  prayer  that  we  may  be  more  and  more  par- 
takers of  this  heavenly  wisdom,  and  ascribe  all  might,  majesty,  and 
dominion  to  the  Lord  (done.     I  am,  dear  Sir,  yours  affectionately, 

"John  Thornton." 

The  reply  to  this  letter  is  an  honour  equally  to  both  corre- 
spondents :  it  is  addressed  to  John  Thornton,  Esq.,  and  dated 
Everton,  October  22,  1765. 

"  Dear  and  honoured  Sir, — Your  favour  of  the  1 7th  requires  an 
answer  attended  with  a  challenge.    And  I  do  hereby  challenge  you,  and 
defy  all  your  acquaintances  to  prove,  that  I  have  a  single  correspondent 
half  so  honest  as  yourself.     Epistolary  intercourses  are  become  a  polite 
traffic  ;  and  he  that  can  say  pretty  things,  and  wink  at  bad  things,  is 
an  admired  correspondent.     Indeed,  for  want  of  due  authority  and 
meekness  on  one  side,  and  of  patience  and  humility  on  the  other,  to 
give  or  to  take  reproof,  a  fear  of  raising  indignation  instead  of  conviction, 
often  puts  a  bar  on  the  door  of  my  Ups ;  for  I  find  where  reproof  does 
not  humble  it  hardens  ;  and  the  seasonable  time  of  striking,  if  we  can 
catch  it,  is  when  the  iron  is  hot — when  the  heart  is  melted  down  in  a 
furnace.     Then  it  submits  to  the  stroke,  and  takes  and  retains  the 
impression.      I  wish  you  would  exercise  the  trade  of  a  Gospel  hmner, 
and  draw  the  features  of  all  my  brethren  in  black,  and  send  them  their 
portraits.     I  believe  you  would  do  them  justice  every  way,  by  giving 
every  cheek  its  proper  blush,  without  hiding  a  dimple  upon  it.     Yet  I 
fear,  if  your  subsistence  depended  on  this  business,  you  would  often  want 
a  morsel  of  bread,  unless  I  sent  you  a  quartern  loaf  from  Everton.     As 
to  myself,  you  know  the  man  :  odd  things  break  from  me  as  abruptly 
as  croaking  from  a  raven  :  I  was  bom  with  a  fools*  cap.     True,  you 
say,  yet  why  is  not  the  cap  put  off?  it  suits  the  first  Adam,  but  not  the 
second.     A  very  proper  question,  and  my  answer  is  this :  a  fool's  cap 
is  not  put  off  so  readily  as  a  night-cap.     One  cleaves  to  the  head  and 
one  to  the  heart.     Not  many  prayers  only,  but  many  furnaces,  are 
needful  for  this  purpose.     And  after  all,  the  same  thing  happens  to  a 
tainted  heart  as  to  a  tainted  cask,  which  may  be  sweetened  by  many 
washings  and  firings,  yet  a  scent  remains  still.     Late  furnaces  have 
singed  the  bonnet  of  my  cap,  but  the  crown  still  abides  on  my  head  ; 
and  I  must  confess  that  the  crown  so  abides  in  whole  or  in  part,  for 
want  of  a  closer  walk  with   God,  and  nearer  communion  with  him. 
When  I  creep  near  the  throne,  this  humour  disappears,  or  is  tempered 
so  well  as  not  to  be  distasteful.     Hear,  sir,  how  my  Master  deals  with 
me  :  when  I  am  running  wild,  and   saying  things  somewhat  rash  or 
very  quaint,  he  gives  me  an  immediate  blow  on  my  breast,  which  stuns 
me.    Such  a  check  I  received  whilst  I  was  uttermg  that  expression  in 

VOL.1. — A  A 


374  tHE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

prayer  you  complained  of;  but  tlic  bolt  was  too  for  shot  to  be  recovered. 
Thus  I  had  intelligence  from  above,  before  I  received  it  from  your 
hand.  Howover,  I  am  bound  to  thank  vou,  and  do  herebv  acknow- 
ledge  myself  reimbursed  for  retuniing  your  note. 

"  And  now,  dear  sir,  having  given  you  an  honest  account  of  myself, 
and  acknowledged  the  obligation  I  owe  you,  I  would  return  the  obli- 
gation in  the  best  manner  I  am  able.  It  has  been  a  matter  of  surprise 
to  me  how  Dr.  Conyers  could  accept  of  Deptford  living,  and  how  Mr, 
Thornton  could  present  him  to  it.  The  Lord  says,  *  JVoe  to  the  idle 
shepherd  that  leaveth  hisflock.*  Is  not  Helmsley  flock,  and  a  choice 
flock  too,  left — left  altogether,  and  left  in  the  hands,  not  of  shepherds 
to  feed,  but  of  wolves  to  devour  them  ?  Has  not  lucre  led  him  to 
Deptford,  and  has  not  a  family  connexion  overruled  your  private  judg- 
ment ?  You  may  give  me  a  box  on  the  ear  for  these  questions,  if  you 
please,  and  I  will  take  it  kindly,  and  still  love  and  pray  for  you.  The 
Lord  bless  you,  and  bless  your  family,  and  bless  your  affectionate  servant, 

"  John  Bbrbidgb.*' 

At  the  close  of  this  letter  Mr.  Berridge  alludes  to  a  circum- 
stance which  may  require  some  explanation.  Mr.  Thornton 
was  induced  in  1765  to  visit  Dr.  Conyers,  then  rector  of  Helm- 
sley, in  the  North  Riding  in  Yorkshire.  Delighted  as  such 
men  must  be  with  each  other,  thev  became  friends,  and  soon 
after  brothers,  for  Mr.  Thornton's  sister,  Mrs.  Knipe,  a  rich  and 
pious  widow,  was  united  to  Dr.  Conyers  in  1765.  They  were 
the  blessing  of  their  district ;  but  their  happiness  was  not  long 
lived,  for  a  lingering  illness  carried  of  Mrs.  Conyers,  to  the 
deep  regret  of  tlie  parish  ;  yet  was  this  stroke  less  heavy  than 
that  by  which  it  was  followed,  for  within  eighteen  months  the 
rectory  of  St.  Paul's,  Deptford,  the  presentation  to  which  had 
been  purchased  by  Mr.  Tnornton,  became  vacant  and  Dr.  Con- 
yers was  removed  from  his  parishioners,  to  their  heart-felt  sorrow. 
They  were  his  children  in  the  Gospel,  and  when  we  say  that 
the  regular  communicants  were  eighteen  hundred,  we  need  add 
nothing  in  his  praise.  But  he  quitted  them,  and  to  avoid  the  con- 
fusion that  he  apprehended  from  their  vehement  leave-taking,* 
he  quitted  Helmsley  at  midnight.  His  departure  has  been  de- 
fended by  some  and  blame^  by  others ;  but  by  his  parishioners 
his  loss  was  the  more  deplored,  as  his  successor  was  more  of  the 
wolf  than  the  sheep-dog,  and  devastated  rather  than  kept  the  fold. 

*  A  traveller  passing  tbrough  the  town,  saw,  as  lie  approached  the  Market- 

Elace,  a  great  concourse  of  people  in  bitter  lamentation  ;  some  wringing  their 
ands,  others  in  a  state  of  distraction,  the  tears  running  down  their  cheeks, 
and  with  all  the  evidences  of  an  agony  of  distress.  Inquiring  into  the  cause  of 
their  affliction,  the  traveller  leanied  with  surprise  tliat  they  were  mourning  over 
the  irreparable  loss  they  were  about  to  sustain  in  the  remoral  of  their  minister. 
Many  of  them  declared  that  they  would  lay  themselves  along  the  road,  and  if 
he  »-a8  detfsrmined  to  leave  them,  his  carriage  should  driye  over  them. 


SELINA,  CODNTESS  OF  BCNTIKOfiO^.  875 


CHAPTER  XXII. 


Mr.  and  Mrs.  Powjrs — Letters — Mr.  Whitefield — Mr.  Fletcher Mr.  Venn Sir 

C.  Hotbam — Howel  Harris — Chapel  at  Brighton  re-opened— Letters — Mr, 
Romainc — Mr.  Talbot — Mr.  Berridge — Anecdote  of  tlie  Countess— Mr.  De 
Courcy — Mr.  Vincent  Perronet — Mr.  Toplady — Mr.  Bliss — Mr.  Pentycross— 
Chapel  at  Chichester  opened — Chapel  at  Petworth — at  Guilford — Basing, 
stoke — Enlargement  of  that  at  Brighton — Mr.  Thomas  Jones. 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Powys  visited  Lady  Huntingdon  at  Oathall  and 
Brigliton,  in  the  course  of  this  summer  (1766)  :*  making  some 
stay  in  London,  on  their  way,  they  were  introduced  to  Mr. 
Whitefield  and  Mr.  Fletcher,  and  became  intimate  with  both. 
Mr.  Whitefield's  farewell  letter  to  this  "honoured  and  happy 
pair,"  when  his  "  cloud  pointed  to  Bath  and  Bristol,"  theirs  to 
Brighthelmstone,  was  dated  Tottenham-court,  June  2,  1766: 
"How  glad  (he  says)  will  the  noble  Countess  be  of  the  intended 
visit !  How  will  the  hearts,  both  of  the  visited  and  the  visiters,  be 
made  to  burn  within  them  ?"  Mr.  Fletcher  and  Mr.  Romaine 
were  at  Brighton  and  Oathall  during  the  visit  of  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Powys,  and  on  their  departure  Mr.  Venn  and  Sir  Charles 
Hotham  arrived.  The  two  latter  ])roceeded  from  Brighton  to 
Bath,  where  they  were  met  by  Mr.  Howel  Harris,  to^whom  Sir 
Charles  was  introduced  by  Lady  Huntingdon  ;  he  accompanied 
them  to  Trevecca,  whence,  just  before  his  departure  with  Sir 
Charles  and  Captain  Wilson  for  Berwick,  the  residence  of  Mr, 
Powys,  he  wrote  the  following  letter  to  Lady  Huntingdon  : — 

"  Trevecca,  Nov.  30,  1 706. 
"  Dear  Madam, — The  favour  of  yours,  by  Sir  Charles,  I  began  im- 
mediately to  answer ;  and  then  again  another ;  but  your  last  coming 
before  I  could  send  either,  I  can  only  now  say,  it  is  my  real  cross  that 
it  isHiot  in  my  power  to  come  direct/ f/  myself,  instead  of  sending  this, 

•  Thomas  Powj's,  Esq.,  of  Benvick,  in  Shropshire,  was  a  gentleman  of  large 
fortune,  and  of  high  connexions ;  he  btrcamc  v^ry  conspicuous  about  this  period, 
in  conjunction  with  Sir  Richard  Hill  and  Mr.  Lee,  of  Cotery,  in  the  same  county, 
for  zeal  in  the  cause  of  God  and  truth. 

r  Mrs.  Po^Ty8  was  daughter  of—  Poole  Esq.,  of  Radboume,  in  the  county  of 
Derby.  After  the  death  of  her  husband  (in  1775),  she  became  (  September  23, 
1 776),  the  second  wife  of  Sir  Rowland  Hill,  of  Hawkestone,  Bart.  She  died  in 
1790.  The  present  representative  of  Lady  Hill's  family  is  Sacheverel  Chandos 
Pole,  Esq.,  of  Radboume ;  whose  daughter,  Elizabeth  Mary,  married  the  present 
Lord  Byron. 

A  A  12 


376  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  O* 

to  offer,  with  all  readiness,  any  little  assistance  I  am  able.  Wheii 
yours  came  to  hand,  our  Saviour  had  been  just  laying  your  matters  on 
my  heart  in  an  earnest  spirit  of  intercession,  as  he  often  does,  notwith- 
standing the  backwardness  of  my  pen.  And  on  my  laying  the  contents 
of  your  letter  before  those  that  help  me  here,  Evan  Moses  said  that 
your  matters  had  been  of  late  laid  often  more  than  usual  on  his  heart 
to  wrestle  with  God  for  you,  &c.,  &c.,  &c.,  and  they  would  all  have 
consented  to  my  coming  directly  to  Sussex,  but  that  I  had,  above  a 
fortnight  ago,  sent  to  publish  a  long  round,  which  I  begin  tiiis  week, 
of  about  fifteen  opportunities,  where  several  thousands,  I  expect,  will 
attend,  and  several  of  the  places  I  never  was  in  before.  And  I  had 
been  laying  it  before  the  Lord  before  I  sent,  and  we  were  all  in  con- 
science afraid  of  disappointing  so  many.  And  on  laying  it  again  before 
the  Lord,  it  seemed  clearly  to  be  his  mind  I  should  go  this  round ;  and 
as  soon  as  I  return  I  trust  our  Saviour  will  help  me  to  come  to  Sussex. 

**  I  hope  to  commemorate  our  Saviour's  circumcision  and  entrance  on 
his  sufferings  with  your  Ladyship  at  Brighton ;  and  to  set  out  from 
hence  as  soon  as  I  return  from  my  journey,  in  which  (when  you  find* 
that  nothing  should  have  kept  me  from  complying  immediately  with 
your  request,  but  being  bound  in  spirit,  as  well  as  conscience  and  truth) 
I  am  sure  you  will  hold  up  my  hands,  and  follow  me  with  your  pre- 
valent prayers  of  faith  ;  and  that  I  may  be  counted  worthy  to  contribute 
some  weak  help  to  your  Ladyship,  in  your  well  meant  labours  for  the 
glory  of  the  Redeemer  and  the  good  of  a  dark  ungrateful  age. 

"  Mv  wife,  and  Hannah  and  Betty,  Evan  Moses,  and  Jerry  Pritch- 
ard,  all  join  in  most  grateful  regards  to  your  Ladyship;  and  are  so  far 
from  hindering  me,  that  they  nre  sorry  that  I  can't  come  directly ;  and 
all  feel  a  oneness  between  your  work  and  ours,  and  that  your  cares 
and  burdens  are  ours.     *         *  *  ♦  *  # 

''  Will  you  believe  me  if  I  say  I  shall  feci  the  time  long  till  the 
Lord,  I  trust,  will  bring  me  to  Brighthelmstonc.  Your  Ladyships 
most  unworthy,  but  affectionate  and  obliged  humble  servant. 

"HowKL  Harris." 

Mr.  Fletcher  went  from  Brighton  to  London,  "  where  (says 
Mr.    Whiteficld)    he    became  a   scandalous   Tottenham-court 

Sreacher."  Lady  Huntingdon  followed  him  to  London,  and 
Ir  and  Mrs.  Powys  went  on  a  visit  to  Mr.  Venn,  in  York- 
shire. To  that  place  Lady  Huntingdon  addressed  the  following 
letter : — 

"My  dear  Madam, — As  I  have  no  expectation  of  seeing  you  ^ain 
from  the  uncertainty  of  all  things  on  earth,  which  suffers  us  not  to  call 
anything  our  own  that  time  possesses  us  of,  I  could  not  forbear  com- 
municating my  sentiments  of  love  and  tender  regard  to  you  and  Mr. 
Powys,  hoping  that  the  conviction  that  will  follow  from  them  will  be 
sufficient  to  assure  you  how  glad  I  should  be  to  wait  upon  you,  though 
the  interposition  of  Providence  may  prevent  my  ever  having  that  op- 
portunity. I  really  mean  that  ray  friendships,  visits,  conversation,  with 
every  intercourse  of  maukmd,  should  lead  to  but  one  end.     I  don't 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON,  877 

every  intercourse  of  mankind,  should  lead  to  but  one  end.  I  don't 
mean  by  this  merely  the  necessary  consistency  required  of  a  religious 
profession,  or  the  splendid  appearances  of  a  devout  (or  sanctimonious) 
character  :  0,  no  !  these  the  poorest  and  blindest  hypocrite  may  excel 
in ;  but  the  knowledge  of  truth,  essentially  and  effectually  distin- 
guished from  all  the  plausible  opinions  about  if,  is  my  all. 

"  These  words  in  your  letter  struck  me  with  a  simplicity  I  loved— 
'  All  I  know  is,  that  I  am  exceedingly  ignorant,  and  have  need  to  be 
taught  as  a  little  child.'     To  this  real  disposition  is  all  truth  eminently 
and  specially  addressed ;  and  without  this  kind  of  docility  we  must 
remain  where  we  were.      I  don't  suppose  you  consider  it  needful 
to  become  so,  as  to  man,  but  are  you  so  before  Him,  who  alone   caa 
teach,  guide,  and  lead  into  all  truth  ?  Read  from  the  25th  verse  to  the 
end  of  the  xivth  chapter  of  St.  Luke,  and  see  if,  out  of  that  great  multi- 
tude that  followed  him,  you  would  have  rejoiced  when  he  turned  and 
said  to  them,  "  If  any  man  come  to  me  and  hate  not"  ^c,  "^e  cannot 
be  my  disciple^*'  for  we  hear  of  none  that  chose  him  out  of  that  multi- 
tude; and  in  what  a  state  of  preparation  for  heavenly  things  must 
t/iat  heart  have  been  that  could  bave  embraced  him,  in  his  low  and 
despised  estate,  so  highly  as  to  fly  from  all  things  else,  nearest  and 
dearest,  as  hateful,  to  follow  Him.     Is  then  this  the  disposition  of 
your  heart,  my  dearest  madam  ?     This  was  not  said  to  Apostles,  or 
eminently  chosen   instruments,  but «/"  any  man  come  to  me.     Should 
this  be  our  Saviour's  first  lesson  to  your  heart,  and  it  is  truly  in  this 
child-like  disposition,  you  will  naturally  forego  every  hindrance,  you 
will  embrace  the  summons,  leaving  all  behind  joyfully ;  if  not,  you 
will  reason,  and  find  out  how  wise  you  are  in  accommodating  these 
highest  privileges  of  his  Gospel  with  securing  to  yourself  (from  worldly 
prudence)  every  comfort  he  would  call  you  from  the  enjoyment  of, 
and  rest  in  the  consolation,  doctrinally,  of  the  sufiiciency  of  his  sacri- 
fice for  sinners.     Such,  dearest  madam,  is  the  blindness  and  deceitful- 
ness  of  our  hearts ;  whereas,  true  faith  in   that  sacrifice  calls  upon 
all  for  the  sacrifice  of  their  all,  in  testimony  of  tlicir  faith  ;  and  when- 
ever we  see  a  sincere  heart,  though  overrun  with  weakness,  unbelief, 
&c.,  as  Peter  and  others,  yet  we  find  them  brought  through  all  to  the 
point  their  simple  hearts  truly  aimed  at ;  therefore  we  have  no  reason 
to  be  discouraged  at  any  thing  we  are  not  now,  as  he  first  works  in  us 
to  will,  and  tLen  to  do,  of  his  own  good  pleasure.     But  the  reserves 
willingly  held  at  the  bottom  of  the  heart,  and  not  being  alive  or  awake 
upon  the  necessity  of  this  condition  of  the  mind,  or  by  evading  the  force 
of  these  truths,  by  arguments  drawn  from  Scripture,  with  art,  to  satisfy 
the  poor  foolish  heart,  this,  of  all  states,  appears  to  be  the  worst  sort; 
these  are  those  that  are  ever  learning  and  never  coming  to  the  know- 
ledge of  the  truth,  and  carry  the  savour  of  death  with  them  wherever 
they  go. 

"  A  lady  of  great  quality  I  knew,  that  had  most  serious  and  reli- 
gious sentiments,  and  of  this  world,  in  person,  fortune,  family,  friends, 
&c.,  an  uncommon  share :  a  gentleman  who  was  well  acquainted  with 
her  and  saw  the  snares  that  would  beset  her,  in  order  to  pervert  the  solid 


378  THE  LIfE  AKD  TIlfES  O? 

experience  of  tlie  truth,  dealt  most  plainly  with  her^  and  showed  her  ihe 
consequence  of  a  divided  heart :  it  gave  her  great  pain  for  a  time  ;  hut 
at  and  before  her  death,  she  often  would  cry  out,  O,  wkat  great,  what 
unspeakable  obligations  do  I  new  feel  for  that  dear  and  faithful  friend 
who  dealt  so  plainly  with  me :  and,  indeed,  her  death  was  the  most 
blessed  proof  of  that  solid  and  most  substantial  evidence  she  had  of 
future  glory ;  for  mortality  was  swallowed  up  of  life  visibly  to  others. 

'*  It  is  this  sort  of  friends  I  feel  I  want  for  myself,  who  will  ever 
contend  with  every  false  rest  I  would  set  up  ;  and  with  fiuth  and  zeal 
be  hastening  my  slow  and  lazy  steps  through  this  rough  wilderness  of 
woe ;  such  it  only  is  to  pilgrims,  they  cannot  take  up  with  what  is  in 
it,  yet  loiter  in  that  way,  when  faith  and  love  would  make  them  wings 
to  soar  upon.  ****** 

''Thus,  my  dearest  madam,  may  you  and  I  practically  knaw^  under- 
stand, and  follow,  by  the  guidance  of  the  Spirit  of  truth,  the  meaning 
and  intent  of  all  religious  truths  revealed  in  the  Bible ;  unless  this  is 
the  case,  we  are  and  shall  be  found  the  sounding  brass,  and  nothing 
better.  To  our  great  Prophet,  Priest,  and  King  may  we  ever  trust 
and  commit  ourselves,  and  in  his  arms  of  love  and  mercy  may  we 
be  found,  when  nothing  else  but  the  merits  of  his  death  shall  fill  hea- 
ven and  our  hearts  ^ith  his  praises.  I  am,  dearest  nmdam,  your  much 
obliged  friend  and  obedient  humble  servant, 

"  S.  Huntingdon." 

«  To  Mrs.  Powys." 

Mr.  Whitefield  at  the  same  time  wrote  to  Mr.  Powys,  con- 
gratulating him  on  havingaround  himyt^wr  Methodist  preachers;* 
** enough  (he  observes,)  when  Jesus  says,  Loose  them  and  let 
them  go,  to  set  a  whole  kingdom  on  fire  for  God."  "  Our  truly 
noble  mother  in  Israel  (he  continues,  adverting  to  the  Countess) 
is  come  to  Xondon  full  of  the  scars  of  Christian  honour :  crescit 
sub  pondere  virtus,  Happy  they  who  have  the  honour  of  her 
acquaintance." 

In  February  Howel  Harris  came  to  London,  and,  after  preach- 
ing for  Mr.  whitefield  several  times,  went  down  to  Brighton  to 
the  Countess.  This  was  a  favourite  place  of  resort  to  the  good 
Lady  Huntingdon,  and  there  she  had  opened  her  first  chapel : 
which  had  so  prospered,  that  she  now  found  it  necessary  con- 
siderably to  enlarge  the  building.  Accordingly,  on  the  20th  of 
March,  she  gathered  her  chaplains  around  her,  and  the  enlarged 
chapel  was  re-opened.  On  the  19th  her  Ladyship  had  devoted 
several  hours  to  solemn  and  solitary  prayer,  wrestling  with  God 
for  a  blessing  on  this  house  which  she  had  reared  to  him;f  and 

•  Mr.  Venn,  Mr.  Ryland,  Dr.  Conyers,  and  Mr.  Powley,  vicar  of  Dewsbury. 

t  It^was  not  unusual  with  her  Ladyship  to  anticipate  the  public  prayers  of 
her  chaplains,  by  her  own  private  intercessions  for  the  congregation.  Before 
the  officiating  minister  entered  upon  the  performance  of  his  duty,  it  was  her  cus. 


8ELm A|  COUNTESS  OF  BUKTINODON.  379 

that  night  a  prayer-meeting  had  been  held  in  her  own  house 
for  the  same  purpose.     On  the  day  of  opening,  Mr.  Whitefield 

E reached  from  2  Peter  iii.  18,  "But  grow  in  grace,  and  in  the 
nowledge  of  the  Lord  and  Saviour  Jesus  Christ :  to  him  be 
glory  both  now  and  for  ever.  Amen."  Mr.  Madan  preached  in 
the  forenoon  and  Mr.  Whitefield  in  the  evening,  and  vast  crowds 
assembled,  and  heard  as  if  deeply  affected. 

Mr.  Fletcher,  under  date  of  Madely,  March  16th,  1767, 
acknowledges  her  Ladyship's  intimation  concerning  the  chapel, 
"  her  Ladyship's  comfortable  and  profitable  letter' — which  he 
waits  to  answer  until  he  can  enter  into  the  spirit  of  her  favourite 
Mary ;  but  he  says,  "  I  am  a  stupid  sinner  still — to  say  all  in  one 
word,  I  am  myself  still ;"  and  he  continues  to  paint  his  own 
struggles  for  power  in  the  manner  of  several  of  his  former  letters. 
Mr.  Venn,  he  says,  on  his  way  from  Yorkshire  to  Bath,  brought 
him  the  intelligence  that  Mr.  Harris  had  visited  her  Ladyship, 
and  had  promised  to  visit  Madely  on  his  return.  "  Jones  (he 
writes)  has  told  me  that  he  preactied  in  your  Ladyship's  chapel, 
and  he  mentions  Mrs.  Hill  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Powys  as  having 
profited  by  their  visit  to  London  and  her  Ladyship." 

Mr.  Harris  addressed  her  Ladyship  from  Trevecca  in  a  very 
energetic  letter,  on  the  very  day  of  the  opening  at  Brighton : — 

^  I  am  this  morning  happy  (be  says)  in  viewing  the  glory  that  I 
am  sure  is  this  day  among  you  at  Brighthelmstone.  My  prayer  is  that 
your  bow  may  ever  abide  in  strength — that  your  faith  may  never  £ul— 
and  that  the  eacred  fire  may  be  ever  blazing  in  your  heart,  life,  and  pen, 
without  which  all  our  light  is  but  mere  death  and  darkness." 

He  promises  to  be  in  Bath  in  May,  and  adds  that  he  has  pre- 
vailed on  Mr.  Hart  and  Mr.  Jones  to  be  there,  but  that  Mr.  Jesse 
did  not  well  receive  his  remonstrance. 

torn,  knowing  the  awful  responsibility  of  his  situation,  and  the  inestimable 
value  of  immortal  souls,  to  request  the  Great  Master  of  assemblies  to  furnish  him 
with  a  subject  adapted  to  the  conditions  of  the  people ;  at  the  same  time  earnestly 
soUciting  for  the  preacher  wisdom,  utterance,  power,  and  fidelity ;  and  for  the 
hearers  a  serious  frame,  an  unprejudiced  mind,  and  a  retendye  heart.  AVhilst 
he  was  employed  in  proclaiming  the  glad  tidings  of  salvation  she  was  engaged 
in  pouring  out  her  soul  to  the  Great  Shepherd  and  Bishop  of  SoiUs  to 
bless  his  own  word ;  pleading  that  last  great  promise  of  her  crucified  Lord, 
"  Lo^  I  am  with  you  alway,  even  unto  the  end  of  the  world.**  And  when  the 
service  of  the  sanctuary  had  ceased,  she  withdrew  to  her  doset,  and  earnestly 
implored  the  benediction  of  the  Spirit  to  accompany  the  labours  of  his  servantSy 
that  many  might  be  led  to  the  knowledge  or  his  grace  and  faidi  in  Him. 
From  year  to  year  sinners  were  converted  from  the  error  of  their  ways,  and 
believers  were  built  up  in  their  most  holy  faith :  while  she  appeared  among 
them  as  a  happj  mother  rejoicingin  their  prosperity,  and  blessed  in  the  bless- 
ings  of  her  spiritual  children.  Thus  the  see<l  which  she  had  so  often  watered 
with  her  tears,  and  followed  with  her  prayers,  produced  at  length  a  plenteoiia 
barvett  of  immortal  toi|ls»  rvdceiQtd  by  Ilie  Uood  of  Jttui. 


380  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

^  Mr.  Romainc  (be  says)  did  not  preach  as  I  would  wish ;  Mr. 
Madan  spoke  much  against  Sandeman  (Haweis  being  present).  You 
have  heard,  I  suppose,  of  my  calling  at  Lord  Dartmouth's  and  seeing 
there  Stillingfleet,  Talbot,  and  Powys,  and  Lady  Gertrude  Hotham*s 
— Sir  Charles — Mrs.  Cartwright  and  Miss  Cavendish,  and  of  what 
passed  at  Bath,  of  my  speaking  to  a  society-fello^'ship  with  Lady  Anne, 
and  expounding  at  Lord  Buchan's,"  &c. 

''  If  this  comes  to  hand  before  the  meeting  breaks  up,  I  beg  my 
warmest  love  to  all,  being  really  present  there  among  you  in  my  spirit, 
and  crying  that  all  there  may  be  indeed  devoted  to  the  Lord.  0  how 
few,  my  dear  madam,  mind  Him  alone  !  having  no  object  or  care  but 
Him  !  Sure  he  is  but  little  really  known,  else  all  the  family  would 
have  but  one  heart,  one  voice,  one  cry,  one  song,  and  one  joy !  But 
stop— He  does  not  despise  the  day  of  small  diings,  and  we  should 
bless  him  that  it  is  a  day  of  small  things  now,  and  that  the  day-star 
begins  to  rise  on  a  dark,  fallen,  benighted  land." 

He  concludes  with  a  remembrance  to  Miss  Orton,  Mrs. 
Turner,  and  the  whole  society.  Mr.  Romaine  writes  from  Lam- 
beth, on  the  26th  of  the  month,  thus  : — 

"  Honoured  Madam, — I  was,  according  to  your  Ladyship's  request, 
at  your  meeting,  and  waited  on  you  in  spirit,  with  my  prayers,  which  I 
have  offered  up,  and  shall  offer  up,  for  a  blessing  upon  it  I  informed 
Mrs.  Cartwright  and  Mrs.  Cavendish  that  this  was  the  only  way  in 
which  I  could  be  present  with  you.  My  curate  has  left  me.  I  am 
without  an  assistant,  and  cannot  hear  of  one.  The  parochial  duty 
tires  me  quite,  and  I  would  not  go  through  it,  but  that  I  am  perfectly 
satisfied  it  was  the  will  of  God  I  should  have  this  church.  I  never 
durst  take  the  cure  of  souls.  Several  years  ago  Lord  Dartmouth  offered 
me  the  living  of  Bromwich,  where  his  seat  is.  I  refused,  never  in- 
tending to  burden  myself  with  such  a  heavy  charge.  Since  that  time 
I  have  frequently  refused  the  like  offer.  When  Blackfriars  was  vacant, 
I  was  put  up  Avithout  my  knowledge,  being  then  in  Yorkshire.  And  I 
would  never  meddle  with  the  election ;  but  it  was  carried  on  and  suc- 
ceeded against  mine  one  will.  As  sure  as  ever  any  man  had  a  call  from 
heaven  this  was  one.  I  have  been  long  satisfied  of  this  :  and,  there- 
fore, I  may  not  reason  nor  now  complain.  My  time  is  short ;  I  must 
up  and  be  doing ;  for  I  have  a  home  prospect,  bounded  in  very  narrow 
limits.  I  must  go  briskly  on  with  my  work,  leaving  it  to  my  Lord  to 
find  me  strength  for  it,  and  success  in  it ;  his  blessing  I  expect  here, 
and  for  ever ;  not  for  anything  done  at  Blackfriars;  and  yet  I  would 
labour  as  hard  as  if  heaven  were  to  be  the  reward  of  my  labours. 
When  I  was  allowed  more  time  and  liberty,  I  gladly  laid  them  out 
in  your  part  of  the  vineyard,  and  what  I  can  spare  so  I  hope  to  do 
again.  The  people  are  very  dear  to  me  at  Brighton  and  Oathall, 
having  been  so  much  with  them,  and  personally  acquainted  with 
most  of  their  experiences.  I  shall  be  amongst  you  in  all  your 
meetings,  and  shall  keep  up  with  you  the  communion  of  saints.  May 
much  life  f^nd  power  bo  with  ministers  and  people,  and  may  the  chapel 
be  consecrated  anew  by  the  presence  and  glory  of  ^e  Lord  Jesus 


8ELINA,  COUNTESS  OP  HUNTINGDON.  881 

which  have  so  often  filled  it.  All  with  you  share  in  my  hest  wishes, 
I  am  with  great  affection^  in  the  bond  of  all  union,  your  faithful  servant 
and  friend,  "  W.  Romainb." 

In  April,  (1767),  Lady  Huntingdon  and  Miss  Orton  went 
from  Brighton  to  Bath,  and  thence  through  Wales  into  York- 
shire. Her  Ladyship  was  much  occupied  in  arrangenients  for 
her  College  at  Trevecca.  In  the  summer  of  1768  she  was  again 
at  Brighton.  "  Her  only  view  in  Sussex  (says  Mr.  Romaine)  is 
to  carry  glad  tidings  to  a  wretchedly  ignorant  people.  He  has 
hitherto  prospered  her  design,  and  while  he  smiles  upon  it  I 
believe  she  will  never  give  it  up."  The  Rev.  W.  Talbot,* 
vicar  of  St.  Giles's,  Reading,  accompanied  her  Ladyship  into 
Sussex.  He  and  his  wife  were  pious  and  excellent  persons,  and 
were  both  venerated  by  the  congregations  of  the  Countess. 

About  this  time  her  Ladyship  wrote  two  kind  and  consoling 
letters  to  Mr.  Berridge,  who  was  alarmingly  ill ;  as  he  expressed 
it,  laid  on  the  ground  as  "  flat  as  a  flounder,"  His  letter  is  the 
most  admirable  description  of  a  disease  and  its  effects  that  can 
be  conceived,  bnt  couched  in  the  most  figurative  and  extraordi- 
nary language.  He  excuses  his  declining  her  Ladyship's  invi- 
tation to  visit  her  by  pleading  that  he  has  no  coat  fit  to  appear 
in  out  of  Everton,  and  concludes  bv  asking  her  to  patch  his  coat 
by  a  small  bank  bill.  Her  Ladyship  immediately  complied 
with  his  request,  and  forwarded  a  sum  for  the  relief  of  his  neces- 
sities.f  He  afterwards  grew  worse,  and  sent  to  her  Ladyship  to 
borrow  a  "gospel  baker"  (a  minister),  lest  his  parishioners 
should  perish  for  want  of  bread. 

After  the  dedication  of  the  chapel  at  Tunbridge  Wells,  Lady 
Huntingdon  proceeded  to  Lewes,  accompanied  by  Mr.  De  Courcy, 
who  preached  twice  to  very  large  congregations  in  the  open  air. 

•  He  was  the  eldest  son  of  Major-General  Talbot,  and  grandson  to  the 
Dishop  of  Durham,  and  nephew  of  Lord  Chancellor  Talbot,  and  had  just  been 
presented  to  this  living  by  the  Lord  Chancellor  Bathurst. 

f    Lady   Huntingdon,  with  that  boundless  generosity  of  heart  which  she 

Sossessed,  wrote  to  this  worthy  man  by  return  of  post,  enclosing  a  bank  post 
ill  for  the  supply  of  his  temporal  necessities.  It  was  said  by  Captain  Scott 
that  her  Ladyship  was  so  generous  and  bountiful  that  she  did  actually  give  to 
every  one  who  asked  her,  until  her  stock  being  exhausted  she  was  destitute. 
At  length  it  became  really  necessary  to  conceal  cases  from  her.  On  one  occa- 
sion the  Captain,  with  some  other  ministers,  having  a  case  presented  to  them, 
and  believing  that  the  good  Countess  would  give,  though  she  could  ill  afford  to 
do  so,  resolved  not  to  acquaint  her  with  it.  Dy  seme  means,  however,  her 
Ladyship  heard  of  the  case,  and  likewise  of  the  combination  of  the  ministers  to 
conceal  it,  with  which  conduct  she  was  exceedingly  grieved ;  and  the  moment 
she  saw  Captain  Scott,  said,  she  could  not  have  thought  it  of  him.  She  burst 
into  tears  and  exclaimed,  *^  I  have  never  taken  anything  ill  at  your  hands  before; 
but  this  I  think  is  rery  unkind  I**    She  then  gave  a  hundred  pounds  to  the  case. 


382  THX  LIFE  AND  TIMEd  OF 

From  thence  her  Ladyship  went  to  Brighton,  where  she  made 
but  a  short  stavy  and  leaving  Mr.  De  Courcy  to  supply  the 
chapels  there  and  atOathall,  returned  to  Tunbridge  Wells,  where 
she  continued  till  the  month  of  August,  when  she  took  a  journey 
into  Wales  to  attend  the  approaching  anniversary  of  her  College. 
Here  Mr,  De  Courcy  laboured  with  great  zeal,  truthfulness, 
and  success.  He  did  not  confine  himself  to  the  ordinary  routine 
of  labours  on  the  Sabbath  and  week  day^  but  occasionally  went 
from  "  house  to  house,  teaching  and  preaching  Jesus  Christ." 
He  also  held  a  meeting  for  the  purpose  of  praying  with  the 
society,  and  hearing  them  declare  what  God  had  done  for  their 
souls.  On  these  occasions  he  was  peculiarly  useful  in  speaking 
"a  word  in  season"  to  the  weary,  heavy  laden,  troubled, 
tempted,  and  distressed  soul.  The  great  Head  of  the  Church 
did  not  suffer  him  to  labour  in  vain,  but  gave  him  many  souls  as 
seals  to  his  ministry,  some  of  whom  fell  asleep  in  Jesus  before 
him,  and  would  doubtless  welcome  him  to  the  realms  of  eternal 
day. 

The  following  letter  expresses  Mr.  De  Courc/s  admiration 
of  her  Ladyship,  and  details  his  labours  in  her  service  and  that 
of  the  Lord : — 

^'  Honoured  Madam — It  has  been  matter  of  concern  to  me  that  I 
have  not  been  able  fully  to  answer  your  Ladyship's  most  affectionate 
favour  of  the  1 6'th  inst.  sooner ;  but  I  am  confiaent  you  will  readily 
pardon  my  delay,  when  I  inform  your  Ladyship  diat  my  dear  Lord 
and  Master  has  honoured  me  with  such  constant  employ  m  his  service 
that  I  have  really  wanted  leisure. 

*^  It  affords  me  inexpressible  satisfaction  to  find  that  my  poor  ser- 
yices  in  the  Gospel  are  at  all  acceptable  to  your  Ladyship.  And  it  is 
matter  of  deep  self-abasement  that  the  Lord  is  pleased  to  render  them 
so  agreeable,  and  a  little  profitable  to  the  dear^  dear  people  amongst 
whom  I  labour.  0  my  Lady !  could  I  give  your  Ladyship  a  window 
in  my  breast,  to  discover  the  secret  workings  of  my  heart,  you  would 
see,  through  much  vilencss  and  imperfection,  Umt  disinterested  love  for 
the  propagation  of  the  Gospel,  and  ardent  gratitude  to  the  Lord  for 
placing  me  under  your  Ladyship's  wing,  and  the  sweet  constraining  mo- 
tions that  prompt  me  to  spend  and  be  spent  in  the  Sussex  work.  I  can« 
in  my  present  situation,  join  issue  with  the  Psalmist  and  say — '  the  lots 
have  fallen  to  me  in  a  fair  place  ;  yea,  I  have  a  goodly  heritage  I'  I  am 
thankful,  unfeignedly  thankful,  to  your  Ladyship,  for  honouring  an  un- 
worthy creature  so  far  as  to  send  him  to  a  people  among  whom  the 
Lord  resides,  and  to  whom  I  feel  myself  so  united,  that  a  separation 
from  them  would  be  a  very  keen  trial. 

^'  Since  your  Ladyship  heard  from  me  last,  I  have  been  at  Host,  a 
town  distant  about  five  miles  from  Dichlin.  From  reports  we  had  a 
prospect  of  a  severe  persecution,  but  that  promise, '  fear  not,  for  I  am 
with  thee— be  not  dismayed,  for  I  am  thy  God,'  &c.  kept  my  heart  at 


SELINAy  COITNTESS  OF  HVNYXKGDON.  883 

perfect  peace.     Many  friends  from  Dichlin,  Oathall,  Brighthelmstone, 
See,  &c,,  accompanied  me.     As  soon  as  we  made  our  appearance  in 
the  streets,  the  whole  town  was  in  a  commotion,  as  if  ini^ed  by  some 
foreign  enemy.     It  was  with  much  difficulty  I  could  get  a  chair  to 
stand  on.     I  proceeded  in  the  first  hymn  aud  prayer,  and  a  little  of 
my  discourse,  without  interruption,  but  in  a  short  time  some  laughed, 
some  shouted,  others  brought  out  a  table  with  liquor,  and  began  to 
sing  round  it,  whilst  others  blew  a  horn  :  and  while  I  invited  tjbie  in- 
inhabitants  of  Hust  freely  to  drink  of  the  water  of  life,  a  poor  sinner 
came  to  me  with  a  mug  of  ale  in  his  hand,  b^ging  I  would  drink  of 
his  liquor.     In  the  midst  of  all  this  tiie  Lord  made  me  as  bold  as  a 
lion,  so  that  I  was  enabled  to  bear  an  awful  testimony  against  these 
scoifers,  and  had  the  pleasure  to  see  many  of  them  so  far  cut  down  by 
the  word  that  they  were  silent  for  some  time.     But  after  I  had  preached 
about  forty  minutes,  the  uproar  was  so  great  that  I  was  obliged  to  desist, 
concluding  with  a  h3mm.     Towards  the  close  of  my  discourse,  my 
bowels  yearned  so  over  these  poor  creatures,  that  I  could  have  wept 
tears  of  blood  for  their  precious  souls.     However,  notwithstanding  the 
tumult,  many  were  deeply  attentive,  and  much  affected;  and  I  have 
since  heard  that  a  man  in  the  town  has  made  an  offer  of  any  part  of  his 
house  for  us  to  meet  in,  whenever  we  go  again.     I  am  very  confident 
the  Lord  will  have  a  people  in  Hust,  and  feel  a  longing  desire  to  pay 
it  another  visit. 

'<  Last  Sunday  se'nnight  I  went  to  a  place  called  Hellingby,  twenty 
miles  from  hence.     A  man  who  lives  near  the  place,  and  is  a  pretender 
to  Christianity,  invited  me  down  by  a  letter,  which  he  sent  to  one  of 
the  society  here,  wherein  he  represented  the  parish  as  wholly  destitute 
of  a  minister :  alleging  that  the  curate  was  dismissed,  and  that  the 
rector  would  not  supply  his  place.     Thinking  this  a  Mr  opportunity 
for  the  introduction  of  the  Gospel,  I  left  this  the  Saturday  after  I  saw 
the  letter,  to  go  to  Hellingby.  In  the  way  I  called  on  this  man,  and  found 
to  my  great  astonishment,  that  the  greatest  part  of  his  letter  was  palpably 
false,  for  the  rector  was  then  come.     In  short,  he  was  quite  indifferent| 
and  would  not  own  us.     This  was  indeed  a  trial ;  but  I  remember  it 
was  strongly  impressed  on  my  mind,  that  the  Lord  suffered  this  for 
some  wise  ends,  therefore  faith  looked  to  that  promise^'  all  things 
shall  work  together  for  good,'  and  patience  waited  its  fulfilment  in  this 
affair.     On  Sunday  morning  I  waited  on   the  minister.     When  he 
found  I  had  some  connexion  with  your  Ladyship  he  would  not  admit 
me  into  his  church.     I  returned  very  much  resigned  to  a  few  friends 
from  Brighthelmstone,  &c.,  who  accompanied  me  to  a  place  called 
Laugh  ton,  where  I   stood  up  under  a  branching  venerable  tree,  and 
preached  to  a  very  sweet  attentive  congregation,  thoush  not  very  nu- 
merous.   We  stood  on  an  eminence,  and  made  the  hula  and  vales  re- 
echo with  the  praises  of  the  Lamb.  It  was  a  blessed  season.  Many  were 
much  affected,  and  afler  I  had  concluded  begged  hard  for  one  sermon 
more.     I  have  given  them  a  promise,  and  hope  soon  to  fulfil  it ;  for  I 
long  once  more  to  stand  under  that  same  tree.  The  work  in  Sussex  calls 
aloud  for  more  labourers.   It  is  impossible  forme  to  give  your  Ladyship 
any  idea  of  the  universal  thirst  there  is  for  the  Gospel  on  erery  side  of  us 


384  THE  LIF£  AND  TIMES  OF 

in  the  country  parts.  Every  time  I  preach  at  Oathall  people  come  to  me, 
and  cry  out,  like  persons  famishing  with  hunger  and  hogging  a  morsel  of 
hread — Oh  sir^  wont  you  come  to  such  a  place  f  Indeed,  I  wish  it  were 
in  my  power  to  supply  every  place,  hut  my  calls  are  so  various  that  it  is 
quite  impracticahle.  I  think  Mr.  Harman  computed  ten  or  twelve  dif- 
ferent parts  to  which  we  have  heen  invited.  I  pray  that  the  Lord  may 
send  us  some  help.  I  think  Sussex  seems  to  be  on  fire :  and  though  the 
devil  strives  to  extinguish  the  sacred  flame,  yet,  glory  be  to  God,  it  re- 
ceives additional  strength  from  every  fresh  flood  poured  on  it,  and  bums 
the  brighter.  The  Lord  is  reviving  his  work  in  the  hearts  of  some 
here  who  have  lost  ground.  He  blesses  us  in  every  meeting.  Yes- 
terday was  one  of  the  days  of  the  Son  of  Man.  Oathall  church  was  as 
full  as  it  could  hold,  and  the  Lord  was  in  the  midst  of  us.  The  word 
was  as  a  fire.  I  preached  at  eight  in  the  morning  live  miles  from  Oat- 
hall— at  eleven,  at  Oathall — at  six,  at  Brighthclmstone  ;  and  the  Lord 
gave  me  such  strength  of  body  and-  s])irit  that  he  enabled  me  to  go 
through  the  whole  like  a  giant  refreshed  with  new  wine.  I  really  felt 
no  more  lassitude  of  spirit  or  fatigue  of  body  than  if  I  had  not  spoken 
a  word  the  whole  day.  That  promise  '  as  thy  day  is,  so  shall^thy  strength 
be,'  was  my  support,  and  was  literally  fulfillea  to  me.  0  my  Lady  ! 
what  a  Master  do  we  serve  !  What  an  ample  reward  does  he  give  us 
even  here  !     How  sweet  is  his  service  ! 

"  My  Lord  and  Lady  Sussex  were  at  chapel  yesterday  evening,  and 
seemed  vastly  attentive.  I  received  this  day  a  heart-reviving  cordial 
of  an  epistle  from  dear  Mr.  Wliitefield.  He  rejoices  in  the  prospect 
of  being  with  your  Ladyship  this  summer  at  Tunbridge  Wells.  Your 
Ladyship  is  pleased  to  ask  me  what  you  shall  do  about  my  ordination. 
This  I  answer,  I  am  certain  your  Ladyship  will  do  whatever  is  our 
Lord's  will,  and  therefore  do  not  presume  to  prescribe.  I  bless  God, 
my  mind  is  perfectly  calm  and  resigned  concerning  this  matter.  The 
ordination  of  the  Great  Bishop  of  Souls  is  infinitely  more  valid  than 
that  of  any  creature.  I  feel  much  gratitude  to  the  Lord,  and  am  inex- 
pressibly thankful  to  your  Ladyship  for  my  present  comfortable  situation. 
The  free  offer  you  make  of  being  the  friend  of  all  my  wants  is  more 
than  I  desire  ;  and  all  the  requital  I  can  make  is  to  pray  that  the  Lord 
may  reward  you  sevenfold  into  your  own  bosom.  May  the  Lord  Jesus 
bear  all  your  burdens  I  May  he  ci*own  your  labours  with  abundant 
success,  and  give  your  Ladyship  to  see  the  travail  of  your  Redeemer's 
soul  in  the  conversion  of  many  souls !  But  I  must  at  length  conclude, 
with  most  affectionate  respects  to  Lady  Buclmn,  Lady  Anne,  Miss 
Orton,  &c.,  your  Ladyship's  much  obliged  and  most  dutiful  servant, 

"  Richard  De  Courcy. 
*' Brighthelmstone,  June  26,  1769. 

*'  P.S. — If  it  were  not  inconvenient  I  should  be  glad  to  be  permitted 
to  lie  at  your  Ladyship's  house.  For  being  obliged  to  go  out.  warm 
after  preaching,  I  risk  my  health.  I  hope  your  Ladyship  will  paixlon 
this  freedom." 

Mr.  De  Courcy  was  extremely  popular  at  this  period.    And 


SELtNA)  COUNTESS  01^  HUKtmCDON.  385 

SO  much  was  he  esteemed  in  the  chapels  of  the  Countess,  that 
multitudes  flocked  from  every  quarter  to  hear  him ;  and  the 
chief  Shepherd,  who  had  furnished  him  with  great  gifts,  con- 
descended to  bless  them  for  the  awakening,  quickening,  and  re- 
viving the  souls  of  many,  especially  of  young  persons.  *'  Surely, 
my  Lady  (writes  Mr.  Fletcher,)  you  have  found  at  last  a  man 
altogether  after  your  Ladyship's  heart,  in  Mr.  De  Courcy,  yea, 
and  a  man  after  the  Lord's  own  heart,  whom  he  is  pleased  to 
honour." 

The  winter  of  1769  Lady  Huntingdon  spent  in  London. 
The  first  day  of  the  year  1770  her  Ladyship  set  apart  for  the 
exercise  of  abstinence — for  the  duties  of  impartial  examination, 
humiliation,  and  renewed  dedication  of  herself  to  God.  In  the 
morning  she  was  much  profited  under  a  sermon  from  Isaiah 
XXXV.  3 :  "  Strengthen  ye  the  weak  hands,  and  confirm  the 
feeble  knees."  The  preacher  was  the  Rev.  Andrew  Kinsman, 
of  Plymouth,  then  supplying  the  Tabernacle  and  Tottenham- 
court  Chapel — a  man  held  in  great  estimation  by  her  Ladyship 
and  Mr.  Whitefield.  In  the  evening  she  heard  Mr.  Romaine  at 
the  Lock  Chapel,  from  those  strikmg  words  in  the  prophecies 
of  Jeremiah — "  This  year  thou  shalt  die."  From  a  letter  written 
artly  on  the  evening  of  this  day,  but  not  concluded  for  some 
ays  after,  we  extract  the  following  passages,  which  detail  the 
causes  of  her  sorrows,  and  from  whence  arose  her  joys : — 

" 1  am  but  just  returned  from  the  Lock,  where  I  heard  a  pro- 
fitable sermon  from  dear  Mr.  Romaine,  on  that  awful  passage — '  This 
year  thou  shalt  die,'  If  the  Lord  shall  see  fit  to  remove  me  licnce 
during  the  year  just  commenced,  may  my  worthless  soul  be  numbered 
with  the  redeemed  before  the  tlirone.  Of  late  I  have  enjoycJ  much 
intimate  fellowship  with  the  Father  and  the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Spirit 
has  frequently  witnessed  with  my  spirit  that  I  am  his  child.  This  has 
caused  me  to  rejoice  with  joy  unspeakable.  Truly  I  can  set  up  my 
Ebenezer,  saying,  ' Hitherto  the  Lord  hath  helped  me*  During  the 
year  that  is  gone  iie  appeared  wonderfully  in  my  behalf;  and  has 
repeatedly  given  me  to  find  it  is  not  in  vain  to  trust  him.  Nevertheless, 
I  am  keenly  penetrated  with  a  sense  of  my  own  utter  helplessness, 
nothingness,  aud  depravity.  Oh !  the  desperate  deceitfulness  of  the 
human  heart !  What  depths  of  depravity  are  within  !  I  am  a  very 
Judas,  ready  to  betray  my  Lord  and  Master,  and  did  not  mighty  grace 
prevent,  would  have  been  a  traitor  long  since.  But  the  Lord  is  still 
merciful  and  gracious,  and  though  often  provoked,  has  not  yet  forsaken 
me.  Through  mercy  I  still  hold  fast  my  confidence.  My  anchor  is  fixed, 
and  the  Lord  Jesus  is  my  wisdom,  righteousness,  sanctification,  and 
redemption  :  and  with  the  apostle  I  am  enabled  to  forget  those  things 
which  are  behind,  and  reach  forth  to  those  thing  which  are  before.'* 

But  whilst  inward  consolation  abounded,  outward  trials  and 


s 


aw  TWE  un  Man  tdbs  ov 


dinppoiiitiiieots  increased.  But  He  wbois  ridi  in  merer  knew 
what  she  was  able  to  bear,  and  proportioned  her  suffering  to  her 
strength.  In  many  places  where  she  was  instrumental  ui  plant- 
ing the  Gospel  standard,  great  success  attended  the  first  promid- 
catkm  of  dirine  truth,  and  much  life  and  zeal  glowed  in  the 
hearts  of  those  who  received  the  truth  in  the  love  of  it.  But 
after  a  season  the  scene  changed,  and  deadness  seemed  to  spread 
over  the  work.  To  some  such  complaints  of  her  Ladvship  Mr. 
Berridge  thus  replies,  under  the  date  of  Everton,  Januarv  9, 
1770:— 

^  You  oomplain  that  everr  new  work,  afler  a  season,  becomes  a  life- 
leas  work.  And  was  it  not  in  the  beginning  as  it  is  now  ?  Do  not 
the  Acts  and  Epistles  show  that  the  primitiTe  chorcbes  much  resembled 
our  own  ?  In  their  infancy  we  find  them  of  one  heart  and  sonl,  having 
all  things  common ;  bat  presently  read  of  partiality  in  the  dtstribntion 
of  their  Church-stock,  then  of  eager  and  lasting  contentions  about  or- 
curndsion,  coupling  Moses  with  Jesus,  and  setting  the  servant  on  a  lerel 
witli  his  master.  And  Gentile  Churches  were  much  on  a  footing  with 
Jewish.  The  Corinthians  6oon  fell  into  parties  about  their  leaders, 
into  errors  about  the  resurrection,  and  into  many  gross  immoralities. 
The  Ghdatians  seemed  ready  at  first  to  present  Paul  with  their  own 
eyes,  but  grew  desirous  at  last  of  plucking  out  his.  The  Ephesians 
had  been  much  tossed  Hith  ^linds  of  doctrine.  The  Colossians  had 
fallen  into  uill  worship,  &c. ;  and  the  Thessalonians  had  some  of  our 
gossips  among  them  who  would  not  work,  but  sauntered  about  picking 
up  news  and  telling  talcs.  St.  Pauls  labours  were  much  employed 
in  Asia,  and  many  churches  were  gathered  there ;  yet  I  hear  him 
complaining  in  a  certain  place  '  that  all  they  in  Asia  were  turned  aside 
from  him.'  The  Ge?ieral  Epistles,  which  were  written  late,  unanhnously 
show  that  errors  and  corruptions  had  broke  into  all  churches  during 
the  Apostle  8  life-time :  and  the  seven  Epistles  dictated  by  Jesus  in 
the  Revelations  confirm  the  same.  Scripture  mentions  a  former  and 
a  latter  rain  :  between  which  there  must  of  course  be  an  interval  of 
drought  and  barrcnncffi.  The  former  rain  falls  just  after  seed-time ; 
when  there  is  plenty  of  manna  comin^j  down  from  above,  plenty  of 
honey  flo\inng  out  of  the  rock,  and  plenty  of  joyful  hosannahs  rising 
up  to  Jesus.  After  this  rain  comes  the  interval ;  during  which  most 
of  the  stony  and  thorny  grounds  sheer  off,  taking  a  final  leave  of 
Jesus  ;  and  tlie  good  grounds  are  scarcely  discernible,  so  barren  they 
appear  and  full  of  weeds,  and  so  exceedingly  cold  and  swampy.  Now 
one  soars  up  into  the  cloud  of  perfection,  crying  out,  /  am  a  queen  ! 
and  becomes  the  devil's  goddess.  Another  fills  asleep  and  snores  hard 
in  election  ;  God's  truth,  indeed,  is  often  made  the  devil's  cradle.  A 
third  drops  plump  into  n  pond,  and  then  keeps  roaming  day  and  night 
about  the  devil's  wash-pot.  A  fourth  gets  bemired  in  the  world,  and 
lies  quite  contented,  though  nearly  choked  in  the  devil's  quagmire. 
At  length  the  Lord  ariscth  in  just  indignation  to  chastise  and  vex  his 
people,  continuing  his  plagues  till  he  has  broken  their  bones  and  hum- 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  38? 

bled  their  hearts,  causing  them  to  see,  and  feel,  and  loath  their  back- 
slidings,  and  raising  up  a  sigh  and  a  cry  in  their  hearts  for  deliverance. 
Then  comes  the  latter  rain  to  revive  and  settle  ;  after  which  they  learn 
to  walk  humbly  with  Qod." 

Some  time  during  the  month  of  January  her  Ladyship  paid 
a  visit  to  that  very  venerable  man,  Vincent  Perronet,  vicar  of 
Shoreham,  in  Kent,  who  had  but  just  recovered  from  a  long 
illness — a  man  certainly  entitled^  on  various  accounts,  to  a  con- 
spicuous place  amongst  the  brightest  ornaments  of  the  Christian 
Church  in  the  last  century.  For  though  he  was  possessed  of 
talents  and  accomplishments  which  would  have  qualified  him  to 
have  filled  any  station  with  dignity,  and  his  connexions  in  life 
were  such  that  he  had  good  reason  to  expect  considerable  pre* 
ferment ;  yet  as  soon  as  the  glorious  light  of  the  Gospel  visited 
his  mind,  he  instantly  renounced  every  prospect  of  temporal 
advantage,  counting  all  things  but  loss  for  the  excellency  of  the 
knowledge  of  Christ  Jesus  his  Lord.  And  from  that  moment 
he  unreservedly  devoted  himself  to  the  glory  of  his  Redeemer 
and  the  interests  of  the  Church  militant. 

With  Lady  Huntingdon,  Mr.  Perronet  had  occasionally  cor- 
responded, but  till  this  period  never  had  a  personal  interview  with 
her  Ladyship,  who  was  much  impressed  with  the  manly  and  ex- 
alted nature  of  his  piety,  his  Christian  courtesy,  and  tne  cheer- 
fulness and  sweetness  of  his  disposition  and  deportment.  "  A 
most  heavenly  man  (says  her  Ladyship)  with  the  most  lively  piety, 
joined  with  the  profouiidest  humility  and  ardent  concern  for  the 
salvation  of  the  people  committed  to  his  charge."  And  as  he 
was  one  of  the  most  aged  ministers  of  Christ  in  the  kingdom,  so 
he  was  inferior  to  none,  either  in  the  fervour  of  his  spirit,  the 
simpUcity  of  his  manners,  or  the  ancient  hospitality  of  the  Gos- 
pel. At  the  same  time,  those  who  were  favoured  with  his  friend- 
ship can  never  forget  the  delicacy  and  refinement  of  his  senti- 
ments and  the  frankness  and  generosity  of  his  temper ;  qualities 
which  are  not  to  be  expected  but  from  great  and  liberal  minds. 

Lady  Huntingjdon  was  accompanied  by  Mr.  Wesley,  who  re- 
mained at  Shoreham  a  few  days,  whilst  her  Ladyship  proceeded 
to  Tunbridge  Wells  to  regulate  some  affairs  connected  with  her 
chapel  there.  From  thence  she  went  to  Brighton  and  Oathall, 
where  Mr.  Romaine  had  arrived  a  day  or  two  l^fore.  Her  Lady- 
ship returned  to  her  residence,  in  Portland-row,  in  the  month  of 
February.  On  Tuesday,  the  6th,  Mr.  Wesley  administered  the 
sacrament  at  her  house^dr  the  last  time,  Mr.  MaxGeld  preached 
and  spoke  strongly  against  Perfection,  a  doctrine  Mr.  Wesley 
contended  for  at  this  time  with  much  zeal.  The  following  week, 
however,  he  was  again  at  her  Ladyship's  house,  when  Mr. 


888  '    THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

Talbot,  of  Reading,  administered  the  Lord's  Supper,  and  Mr. 
Browne,  of  Olney,  preached,  after  which  Mr.  Wesley  concluded 
with  prayer  and  the  usual  benediction. 

For  some  weeks  Mr.  Talbot  and  Mr.  Browne  administered 
the  sacrament  and  preached  afternately  at  her  Ladyship's,  as- 
sisted by  Mr.  Maxfield,  Mr.  Green,  and  Mr.  Foster,  then  curate 
and  lecturer  of  St.  Aim's,  Blackfriars.  Early  in  March  Mr. 
Romaine  returned  to  London,  and  on  the  5th  accompanied  her 
Ladyship  to  Reading,  where  she  remained  a  few  days  with  her 
excellent  friends,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Talbot.  On  the  9th  she  reached 
Bristol,  where  Mr.  Romaine  preached  twice  on  Sunday  the  1  ]  th. 
The  next  day  she  went  to  Bath ;  and  the  following  evening 
Mr.  Romaine  preached  in  the  chapel  to  a  very  large  and  serious 
congregation.  Passing  through  Stroud  and  Painswick,  she 
arrived  at  Cheltenham,  Wednesday  the  14th.  Being  refused 
the  use  of  the  parish  church,  Mr.  Romaine  addressed  a  numerous 
body  of  people  in  a  large  school-room,  where  Mr.  Madan,  Mr. 
Talbot,  and  others  had  occasionally  preached  some  years  before. 
On  the  16th  her  Ladyship  left  Cheltenham  for  Oxford,  and  the 
following  day  reached  Reading,  where  she  remained  till  Mon- 
day, Mr.  Romaine  having  engaged  to  preach  on  the  Sunday  for 
Mr.  Talbot.  After  spending  two  days  in  London,  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon set  off  for  Brighton  on  the  22nd,  accompanied  by  Lady 
Anne  Erskine,  Miss  Orton,  and  Mr.  Maxfield. 

On  the  26th  her  Ladyship  received  the  following  letter  from 
Mr.  Berridge,  in  answer  to  one  she  had  lately  written  him,  at 
the  close  of  which  he  makes  a  slight  allusion  to  the  disappoint- 
ment she  experienced  at  this  time  by  the  withdrawment  of  Mr. 
De  Courcy  from  her  Ladyship's  patronage  and  connexion — 

"Evcrton,  March  23,  1770. 
"  My  Lady, — Your  letter  just  suited  my  case  :  it  was  a  bleeding 
plaster  for  a  bleeding  heart.  These  many  months  I  have  done  little 
else  but  mourn  for  myself  and  others,  to  see  how  we  lie  among  the 
tombs,  contented  with  a  decent  suit  of  grave  clothes.  At  times  my 
heart  has  been  refreshed  w  itli  these  words,  '  On  the  land  of  my  people 
is  come  up  briars  and  thorns,  until  the  Spirit  be  poured  out  upon  them 
from  on  high  ;*  but  the  comfort  soon  vanii^heth,  like  gleams  of  a  winter 
sun.  I  cannot  wish  for  transports,  such  as  we  once  had,  and  which 
almost  turned  our  heads ;  but  I  do  long  to  see  a  spirit  poured  forth  of 
triumphant  faith,  heavenly  love,  and  stedfast  cleaving  to  the  Lord. 

"Before  I  parted  with  honest  Glascott,  I  cautioned  him  much 
against  petticoat  snares.  He  has  burnt  his  wings  already.  Sure  he 
will  not  imitate  a  foolish  gnat,  and  hover  again  about  the  candle  ?  If 
he  should  fall  into  a  sleeping-lap,  he  will  soon  need  a  flannel  night- 
cap, and  a  rusty  chain  to  fix  him  down,  like  a  church  bible  to  the 
^ading-dcsk.    No  trap  so  mischievous  to  the  field-preacher  as  wed- 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  07  HUNTINGDON.  389 

lock,  and  it  is  laid  for  him  at  every  hedge  comer.  Matrimony  has 
quite  maimed  poor  Charles,*  and  might  have  spoiled  Johnt  and  GeorgeJ 
if  a  wise  Master  had  not  graciously  sent  them  a  hrace  of  ferrets.  Dear 
George  has  now  got  his  liherty  again,  and  he  will  scape  well  if  he  is 
not  caught  hy  another  tenterhook. 

"  Eight  or  nine  years  ago,  having  heen  grievously  tormented  with 
housekeepers,  I  truly  had  thoughts  of  looking  out  for  a  Jezehel  my- 
self. But  it  seemed  highly  needful  to  ask  advice  of  the  Lord.  So 
falling  down  on  my  knees  hefore  a  tahle,  vrith  a  Bihle  hetwcen  my 
hands,  I  hesought  the  Lord  to  give  me  a  direction ;  then,  letting  the 
Bihle  fall  open  of  itself,  I  fixed  my  eyes  immediately  on  these  words, 
^  When  my  son  was  entered  into  his  wedding  chamher  he  fell  down  and 
died.'  2  Esdras,  x.  1.  This  frightened  me  heartily,  you  may  easily 
think ;  hut  Satan,  who  stood  peepmg  at  my  clhow,  not  liking  the  hea- 
venly caution,  presently  suggested  a  scruple,  that  the  Book  was 
Apocryphal,  and  the  words  not  to  he  heeded.  Well,  after  a  short 
pause,  I  fell  on  my  knees  again,  and  prayed  tlie  Lord  not  to  he  angry 
with  me,  whilst,  like  Gideon,  I  requested  a  second  sign,  and  from  the 
canonicflJ  scripture ;  then  letting  my  Bihle  fall  open  as  hefore,  I  fixed 
my  eyes  directly  on  this  passage,  *  Thou  shalt  not  take  thee  a  wife, 
neither  shalt  thou  have  sons  or  daughters  in  this  place.'  Jerem.  xvi. 
2.  I  was  now  completely  satisfied ;  and  heing  thus  made  acquainted 
with  my  Lord's  mind,  I  make  it  one  part  of  my  prayers.  And  I  can 
look  on  these  words,  not  only  as  a  rule  of  direction,  hut  as  a  promise  of 
security.  <  Thou  shalt  not  take  a  wife^  that  is,  I  will  keep  thee  from 
taking  one. 

**  This  method  of  procuring  divine  intelligence  is  much  flouted  by 
flimsy  profe88ors,§  who  walk  at  large,  and  desire  not  that  sweet  and 
secret  access  to  the  merey-seat,  which  babes  of  the  kingdom  do  find. 
During  the  last  twelve  years,  I  have  had  occasion  to  consult  the  oraclo 
three  or  four  times,  on  matters  that  seemed  important  and  dubious,  and 
have  received  answers  full  and  plain.  Was  not  this  the  practice  of  the 
Jewish  Church  ?  God  gave  laws  and  statutes  to  them,  as  well  as  to  us ; 
but  when  dubious  cases  arose  they  consulted  the  oracle,  which  gave 
directions  how  to  act  Joshua  and  Israel  are  blamed  for  not  consulting 
the  oracle,  before  they  made  a  league  with  the  Gibeonites.  Yea,  in  the 
Patriarchal  times,  we  find  Rebecca  enquiring  of  the  Lord  concerning 
her  twins ;  and  are  there  not  now,  as  well  as  formerly,  manj)r  dubious 
cases  ?  And  can  we  think  that  God  will  deny  that  direction  to  the 
Christian  Church,  which  he  freely  granted  to  the  Jewish  ?  Is  not 
access  to  the  mercy-seat  more  free  and  more  open  than  before  ?  I 
believe  perplexed  cases  are  often  sent  on  purpose  to  teach  us  to  enquie 
of  the  Lord.  But  leaving  tlie  oracles  of  God,  we  make  an  oracle  of 
man.  A  dozen  wise  heads  are  consulted,  and  their  sparkling  opinions 
usually  prove  as  various  as  the  colours  of  the  rainbow.     Thus  we  are 

♦  Rev.  Charles  Wesley,    f  R«v.  John  Weslev.    \  Rev.  G.  Whitefield. 

§  The  reader  will  form  bis  own  opinion  on  tne  propriety  of  such  appeals  to 
the  Sorta  BibUca.     There  is  perhaps  something  too  Delphic  and  oracular  in 
the  form  for  Christian  practice* 
VOL.1. — ^B  B 


390  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

plunged  into  greater  perplexity  than  before.  A  very  proper  ehastise- 
ment  for  our  folly !  At  my  first,  setting  out,  I  trudged  on  in  this  old 
beaten  dirty  track,  and  many  wise  folks  perplexed  me  soundly,  as  I 
in  my  turn  hare  perplexed  yourself ;  witness  the  Welsh  College.  At 
lengdi  I  found  the  method  liitle  better  than  ^  seeking  to  familiar  spirits, 
and  to  wizards  that  peep  and  mutter ;  should  not  a  people  seek  to 
their  God  ?'  Isaiah  viiL  1 9.  Daniel  sought  to  his  God,  and  got  out  the 
secret  of  Nebuchadnezzar*s  dream.  '  0  yes,  cries  a  cauisticafprofcssor, 
one  of  Isaiah's  muttering  wizards,  ^  but  this  was  a  most  extraordinanr 
case.'  True,  and  yet  David  affimiB  that  the  secret  of  the  Lord  is  with 
all  them  that  fear  him.  Where  is  faith  ?  Buried  under  mountains,  and 
not  removing  them.  However,  this  oracular  enquiry  is  not  to  be  made 
on  light  and  trifling  occasions,  and  much  less  \iith  a  light  and  trifling 
spirit.  Whoever  consults  the  oracle  arielit  will  enter  on  the  enquiry 
with  the  same  solemnity  as  the  high  priest  entered  into  the  Holy  of 
Holies ;  neither  must  this  be  done  upon  any  day  but  on  a  high  day ; 
not  on  trifling  occasions^  but  on  very  important  concerns.  And 
whoever  thus  consults  the  word  of  God  as  his  oracle,  with  a  hearty 
desire  to  know  and  do  God's  will,  I  believe  he  will  receive  due  infor- 
mation. Some  people,  I  am  told,  have  had  answers  on  their  first 
inquiries,  but  afterwards  have  received  no  answer  at  all.  The  rea- 
son may  easily  be  guessed.  We  begin  our  inquiries  with  momentous 
matters,  and  receive  satisfaction,  we  naturally  slide  into  matters  of  no 
moment,  which  are  either  plainly  resolved  by  the  word,  or  require  only 
common  faith  and  waiting;  and  thus  we  make  the  consultation 
matter  of  amusement,  like  tlie  drawing  a  picture  card  out  of  a  scrip- 
ture pock,  which  is  [not  pleasing  unto  God ;  for,  though  he  is  willing 
to  be  consulted,  he  is  not  willing  to  be  trifled  with,  and  much  less  to  be 
made  the  subject  of  amusement  or  diversion." 

From  this  time  to  the  period  of  her  decease  Lady  Huntingdon 
was  frequent  in  her  visits  to  Brighton  and  Oathall;  and  the 
labours  of  her  Ladyship's  ministers  were  attended  with  such 
signal  tokens  of  the  divine  favour,  that  the  chapel  at  Brighton, 
was  soon  found  to  be  too  small  for  the  members  who  wished  to 
attend.  In  the  year  1774  it  was  taken  down,  and  rebuilt  chiefly 
at  the  expense  of  Miss  Orton  (afterwards  Mrs.  Haweis),  and 
it  is  worthy  to  be  here  recorded,  that  several  pious  young  men 
connected  with  the  congregation,  who  were  mechanics,  gave 
their  services  at  over-hours,  in  order  to  expedite  the  necessary 
work.  The  chapel  was  soon  finished,  and  solemnly  dedicated 
to  God  on  the  24th  of  July,  1774,  on  which  interesting  occasion, 
Mr.  Romaine  preached  in  the  morning  from  1  Kings,  viii.  11. 
•*  For  the  glory  of  the  Lord  had  filled  the  house  of  the  Lord  ;** 
and  in  the  evening  from  John  i.  14,  "We  behold  the  glory, 
the  glory  as  of  the  only  begotten  of  the  Father,  full  of  grace 
and  truth." 

The  following  year  Mr.  Toplady  visited  Brighton)  where  he 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  391 

found  a  "  very  considerable  gathering  to  the  standard  of  the 
cross."  His  ministry  was  much  blessed,  and  he  was  exceedini»ly 
attached  to  the  people.  "  I  have  found  (says  he)  much  union 
with  them^  and  the  unction  of  the  Holy  One  has  given  me  much 
comfort  and  enlargement  among  them  hitherto^  in  our  public 
approaches  to  Goa."  Being  a  man  of  extensive  knowledge, 
diversified  talents,  and  great  zeal — whose  mind  was  enlarged  by 
science,  whose  heart  was  expanded  by  the  benevolent  system  of 
the  Gospel,  and  whose  aims  were  directed  to  the  best  and  noblest 
ends,  it  is  natural  to  suppose  his  discourses  contained  a  rich 
body  of  evangelical  truths,  urged  upon  his  hearers  in  a  strong 
and  forcible  manner.* 

"  I  have  seldom  ministered  to  a  congregation  (says  be)  for  whom 
I  have  felt  more  real  love  and  union  of  spirit.  Communion  with  the 
saints  is  one  of  the  sweetest  privileges  of  the  people  of  God  ;  and  this 
I  Lave  eminently  enjoyed  at  Brightlielmstone,  where  there  arc  very 
many  precious  souls  whom  I  esteem  as  the  excellent  of  the  earth,  and 
ia  whom  the  Lord  delightetb." 

With  Mr.  Toplady  was  associated  the  Rev.  Thomas  Bliss, 
vicar  of  Ashford  and  Yamcombe,  in  Devonshire,f  of  whom  he 
says,  "  Your  Ladyship  has  done  me  an  inestimable  benefit  by 
associating  me  with  the  amiable,  the  excellent,  the  zealous,  the 
heavenly-minded  Mr.  Bliss,  a  pattern  for  believers,  and  particu- 
larly ministers  of  Jesus." 

At  sixteen  Mr.  Bliss  heard  Mr.  Romaine  at  Oxford,  and  was 

Juite  exasperated  at  his  preaching ;  but  soon  afterwards  hearing 
)r.  Haweis,  his  view  of  religion  changed,  and  ho  became  at  that 
early  age,  what  he  ever  afterwards  remained,  a  true  Christian. 

*  Mr.  Toplady*!  style  is  said  to  have  been  admirably  suited  for  the  pulpit. 
His  bearers  were  Dot  puzzled  with  hard  words.  His  references  were  in  gene* 
ml  short ;  and  when  they  were  long,  the  members  were  so  constructed  and 
arranged  as  to  create  no  obscurity.  There  was  at  the  same  time  a  vivacity 
and  animation  in  his  manner  whicn  riveted  the  attention  of  his  bearers. 

f  Through  the  greater  part  of  his  life  this  good  man  was  the  subject  of 
considerable  weakness  of  body.  This  circumstance,  in  addition  to  his  lameness, 
confined  him  much  to  his  parish,  where  he  constantly  and  faithfully  petformed 
the  important  duties  of  his  function,  till  he  was  absolutely  incapacitated 
bjT  disease.  He  had  occasionally  preached  for  Lady  Huntingdon  at  Bath ;  and 
with  the  hope  of  dispelling  his  nervous  disorders,  which  were  sometimes 
wrought  up  to  a  high  pitch,  she  prevailed  on  him  to  take  journey  to  Brighton, 
where  he  preached  the  pure  Gospel  with  the  seriousness  and  eaniestnesi  of  a 
man  who  oad  a  deep  conviction  of  its  truth  and  value.  He  was  native  of 
Oxford,  and  descended  from  a  respectable  family  there.  His  father  was  Pro- 
fessor of  Astronomy  in  the  University.  He  was  intimate  with  the  Duke  of 
Marlborough,  and,  beinff  at  Blenheim  on  one  occasion,  he  was  asked  by  the  Duke 
to  recommend  a  tutor  tor  his  son.  The  doctor  at  the  moment  cast  his  eye  on 
a  young  Oxonian  strolling  in  the  park.  He  knew  and  recommended  him.  The 
tutor  was  received,  and  so  mucn  pleased  the  Duke  that  all  his  inflaence  was 
acrt«d  for  hia  tinntimh  and  1m  U?«d W U  Axchbifbop  of  Cintctburjl 
BB  2 


392  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

He  left  the  University  in  1760,  and  was  introduced  by  Lady 
Huntingdon  to  Mr.  Grimshaw,  whom  he  assisted  till  he  was 
appointed  to  the  living  of  Ashford,  near  Barnstable,  in  Devon- 
SDire,  where  he  died  in  1802.  He  was  the  life-long  victim  of 
nervous  disease  :  a  friend  one  day  calling  upon  him,  and  asking 
him  how  he  was  he  replied,  "  I  am  tremblingly  alive  all  over. 
Every  nerve  is  the  seat  of  torture.  Though,  to  lull  my  pains,  I 
take  opium  enough  everj'  day  to  kill  three  strong  men,  the  an- 
guish I  feel  is  so  inconceivably  excruciating,  as  can  only  be 
exceeded  by  suffering  the  flames  of  hell."  At  other  times  he 
would  frequently  say,  ^^  My  life  is  so  unspeakably  burthensome, 
that  nothing  short  of  the  mighty  power  of  God,  and  the  support 
which  real  and  experimental  religion  affords,  could  restrain  me 
from  laying  violent  hands  on  myself."  He  died  happily.  A 
few  days  before  his  dissolution,  he  preached  a  sermon  from 
his  pillow,  on  "  Blessed  are  the  dead  which  die  in  the  Lord," 
with  an  astonishing  energy  and  pathos.  He  might,  on  this  occa- 
sion, have  literally  adopted  the  lines  of  the  eminently  pioas 
Baxter — 

'^  I  preach  as  if  I  Dc'er  should  preach  again ; 
And  as  a  dying  man  to  dying  men." 

The  Countess  meanwhile  extended  on  all  sides  the  circle  of 
her  utility.  Her  oldest  chaplain,  Mr.  Romaine,  was  her  adviser 
and  assistant  on  all  occasions,  and  to  him  the  younger  ministers 
looked  up  with  the  highest  reverence  and  affection,  -and  his 
advice  was  always  to  bear  with  spiritual  wickedness  in  high  places, 
and  to  keep  within  the  pale  of  the  Church. 

His  true  love  and  respect  for  the  Church  of  England  was  in 
no  wise  lessened,  nor  did  ever  any  man  take  more  effectual  pains 
to  serve  her,  whether  by  his  preaching  or  his  advice.  Many  of 
his  vacations  were  employed  m  her  service,  and  he  constantly 
travelled  about  with  her  Ladyship,  preaching  the  doctrine  of  the 
kingdom.  Sussex  and  Hampshire  enjoyed  much  of  the  fruits  of 
these  excursions. 

The  labours  of  Mr.  Romaine,  and  of  those  men  of  God  who 
united  with  him  in  "  holding  forth  the  word  of  life,"  were  truly 
astonishing.  They  were  not  suffered  to  labour  in  vain,  or  spend 
their  strength  for  nought,  when  called  to  go  forth  in  the  name 
of  his  Divine  Master.  His  word  directs — "In  the  morning 
sow  thy  seed,  and  in  the  evening  withhold  not  thine  hand ;  for 
thou  knowest  not  whether  shall  prosper  either  this  or  that." 

The  same  ardent  zeal  animating  Lady  Huntingdon's  spirit,  she 
embraced  the  offer  of  an  individual  at  Chichester  to  occupy  his 
house  and  try  to  diffuse  in  that  city  and  the  region  around  it 
the  light  of  the  Sun  of  Righteousness.     Thither  sLe  went,  with 


SELINA,   COUNTESS   OF   HUNTINGDON.  393 

the  ministers  who  laboured  for  her  in  the  blessed  work  of  spread- 
ing the  everlasting  Gospel.  A  chapel  was  soon  erected,  and 
opened  by  Mr.  Pentycross.  Mr.  English,  one  of  her  Ladyship's 
senior  students,  left  it  to  take  charge  of  a  congregation  at  Gos- 
port,  of  which  the  late  Dr.  Bogue  was  afterwards  pastor.  Mr. 
English  had  been  labouring  at  Worcester,  and  from  thence  had 
been  removed  by  Lady  Huntingdon  to  Chichester.  His  minis- 
try was  generally  acceptable,  and  he  was  favoured  with  encou- 
ragement and  marks  of  usefulness.  He  was  succeeded  by  Mr. 
MattheWiWilks,  and  then  by  the  students  of  Trevecca  in  rotation. 
Two  large  chapels  were  soon  after  erected  at  the  neighbouring 
village  of  Emsworth,  and  others  at  Petworth  and  Guildford. 
Such  were  the  fruits  of  Lady  Huntingdon's  labours  at  Chichester. 

Great  and  illustrious,  mdeed,  was  the  cause  in  which  this 
venerable  woman  was  engaged.  Surveying  the  moral  condition 
of  mankind — the  imperishable  nature  and  unalterable  destination 
of  the  human  spirit — how  feelingly  does  she  lament  the  feeble- 
ness and  insufficiency  of  the  instrument  in  so  divine  a  work ; 
and  the  numberless  imperfections  which  mingled  with  all  her 
best  services  !  Nevertheless,  she  cherished  sensations  of  joy 
and  thankfulness  while  she  contemplated  the  glorious  effects 
which,  through  such  feeble  and  imperfect  means,  the  power  of 
the  Almighty  had  accomplished.  It  was  his  Spirit  which  kindled 
this  flame  of  divine  charity,  and,  by  his  efficacious  impulse  in 
her  heart,  constraining  her  to  unceasing  exertions  in  scattering 
the  precious  seed  of  tne  everlasting  Gospel  in  various  parts  of 
the  kingdom,  then  desolate  as  the  barren  heath,  but  in  succeed- 
ing generations  producing  plenteously  the  plants  of  righteousness, 
and  the  ripe  fruits  of  grace  and  glory. 

In  1755  a  place  of  worship  was  opened  by  her  Ladyship's 
means  at  Basmgstoke.  After  some  years  it  was  found  too  small 
and  inconvenient  for  a  rapidly  increasing  congregation,  under 
the  Rev.  Thomas  Thorne,  one  of  her  Ladyship's  ministers,  who 
had  settled  there.  About  the  year  1799  a  new  chapel  was 
erected,  capable  of  accommodatmg  six  hundred  people,  and 
opened  for  divine  worship  on  the  11th  of  July,  1802.  In  the 
morning,  Mr.  Thorne,  minister  of  the  chapel,  who  was  much 
attached  to  the  use  of  the  Liturgy  of  the  Cnurch  of  England, 
and  enjoyed  himself  most  where  it  was  most  esteemed,  read  the 
prayers  of  the  Established  Church,  and  the  Reverend  William 
Cooper,  who  was  afterwards  minister  of  her  Ladyship's  Chapel 
in  Dublin,  preached  from  Gen.  xxviii.  16-17.  Mr.  Wilkins 
preached  in  the  afternoon,  and  Mr.  Cooper  again  in  the  even- 
ing.   Mr.  Thorne  continued  at  Basingstoke  about  ten  years. 

In  J  779  Mn  Wills  had  resigned  nis  chaise  at  St.  Agnes, 


394  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

near  Truro,  in  Cornwall,  and  had  entered  the  Connexion  of  the 
Countess  of  Huntingdon,  happy  in  travelling  from  town  to  town, 
and  from  city  to  city,  to  diffuse  abroad  the  savour  of  that  name 
which  he  loved.  At  the  same  time  Dr.  Haweis,  Mr.  Glascott, 
and  Mr.  Taylor  were  frequent  in  their  visits  to  Brighton  and 
Oathall,  and  the  other  chapels  of  her  Ladyship  in  tne  neigh- 
bourhood. In  1782  the  congregation  enjoyed  the  labours  of 
the  Rev.  Edward  Burn,  minister  of  St.  Mary  s,  Birmingham. 

In  the  year  1788  another  alteration  took  place  in  the  chapel 
at  Brighton ;  a  front  gallery  was  erected  by  the  voluntary  sub- 
scriptions of  several  friends,  chiefly  for  the  accommodation  of 
the  Sunday  school:  and  in  the  year  1810-11  a  further  alteration 
was  effected,  by  throwing  open  to  the  chapel  a  large  parlour, 
^  by  means  of  folding  doors,  principally  for  the  accommodation 
of  the  visiters,  building  a  fourth  gallery  for  the  poor  and  the 
children  of  the  school,  and  erecting  a  minister's  vestry  behind 
the  pulpit.  The  chapel  was  now  rendered  a  very  commodious 
place  of  worship,  and  was  capable  of  containing  about  a  thou- 
sand persons.  On  the  completion  of  this  alteration,  the  Rev. 
Rowland  Hill  preached  in  the  morning  and  evening,  and  the 
Rev.  Mr.  Whitefoot,  of  Enfield,  delivered  a  discourse  in  the 
afternoon. 

In  the  year  1822  it  was  deemed  expedient  a^in  to  enlai^ 
the  chapel,  by  enclosing  a  piece  of  ground  at  tne  south  end, 
equal  in  size  to  rather  more  than  half  the  ground  floor  in  1810'; 
and  on  Sunday  April  the  19th,  1822,  the  Rev.  Rowland  Hill 
again  preached  twice  at  the  re-opening.  The  chapel  is  now 
considered  sufficiently  capacious  to  contain  fifteen  hundred 
persons,  and  is  characterized  by  a  neat  and  chaste  simplicity 
throughout.^ 

At  Brighton  and  Oathall  the  Rev.  Thomas  Jones  passed  the 
last  26  years  of  his  life,  which  closed  September  the  15th,  1814. 
At  that  time  he  was  the  senior  minister  in  Lady  Huntingdon's 
Connexion,  having  been  admitted  at  Trevecca  in  1769.  How 
encouraging,  how  animating  are  these  relations  of  the  success 
attending  the  benevolent  efforts  of  the  noble  Countess  !  The 
footsteps  of  Divine  Providence,  in  the  government  of  the  world 
at  large,  are  traced  with  devout  attention  by  every  real  Christian; 
but  those  events  which  are  visibly  connected  with  the  extension 
of  the  Saviour's  kingdom  among  men,  are  observed  with  the 
most  diligent  and  affectionate  regard.  To  those  who  are  the 
subjects  of  the  great  Redeemer,  the  interests  of  pure  and  vital 
godliness  are  inexpressibly  dear;  and  every  advance  towards  the 
establishment  of  his  gracious  reign  must  be  pleasing  in  the 
highest  degree.     The  foiegoing  narrative  hath  furnished  abiint- 


SELINA)  COUNTESS  OF   HUNTINGDON.  395 

dant  evidence  of  the  Lord's  gracious  approbation  of  the  various 
and  zealous  efforts  of  the  ministers  sent  forth  by  her  Ladyship, 
and,  consequently,  strong  encouragement  to  those  that  remam 
to  proceed  with  increasmff  diligence  and  vigour  in  this  noble 
cause.  O  I  how  did  the  heart  of  the  venerable  Foundress  of 
the  Connexion  glow  with  holy  ardour  for  the  honour  of  her 
Divine  Lord,  and  for  the  salvation  of  lost  sinners !  And  how 
was  she  constrained  to  employ  all  her  powers,  to  exert  all  their 
vigour,  to  advance  the  same  interests  for  which  the  Saviour's 
compassion  prompted  him  to  live  and  die  !  Much,  very  much 
indeed,  remains  to  be  done.  The  voice  of  the  Great  Leader 
and  Commander  is — Go  forward  I  the  voice  of  an  approving 
Providence  is — Go  forward. 


CHAPTER  XXIIL 

Public  Fast^Extracts  from  Lady  Hiiiitingdon*8  Letters^Prayer-meetiiigs  for 
the  Nation— Mr.  Venn-J^fr.  Berridge — Singular  effects  of  his  preaching— 
Mr.  Romaine  and  Mr.  Madan*8  visit  to  Everton*-Mr.  Wesley  preaches  at 
Everton— -ConvulsiTe  motions  amongst  the  congregation— Letters  to  Lady 
Huntingdon— Lady  Huntingdon  visits  Mr.  Berridge— Mr.  Venn  and  Mr. 
Fletcher  preach  at  Everton^Loud  cries  amongst  their  hearers-^uke  of 
York— Dr.  Dodd— Murder  of  Mr.  Johnson — Lord  Ferrer8..Tried  by  his 
Peers— Visited  in  prison  by  Lady  Huntingdon  ■  ■  ■  Singular  conduct  of  Lord 
Ferrers—Execution. 

At  the  commencement  of  the  year  1759  we  find  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon at  Bath,  accompanied  by  Lady  Fanny  Shirley  and 
Lady  Selina  Hastings.  On  the  4th  of  January  her  Ladyship 
went  to  Bristol  to  meet  Mr.  Wesley,  who  accompanied  her  to 
Bath,  and,  after  preaching'to  several  of  the  nobility  at  her  house, 
proceeded  to  Salisbury,  on  his  way  to  London. 

Earl^  in  February  Lady  Huntingdon  returned  to  London ; 
and  Friday  the  16th,  being  the  day  appointed  for  a  public  &8t, 
her  Ladyship  went  to  the  Tabemade  to  hear  Mr.  Whitefield, 
who  addressed  an  immense  congregation  from  those  solemn 
words,  **Rend  your  hearts  and  not  your  garments,**  &c  In 
the  evening  she  heard  Mr.  Wesley  at  the  Foundry,  who 
preached  to   an  overflowing  niultitufie  from  ^S^  tlie  I/m) 


396  THE  LIFE  AND  TIHES  OF 

while  he  may  be  found,"  &c.  Every  place  of  public  worship 
was  crowded  on  this  day,  and  an  unusual  air  of  seriousness  per- 
vaded all  ranks. 

^  Sorely  (observes  her  Ladyship)  the  Lord  has  appeared  remark- 
ablv  for  our  sinful  land.  0  that  the  prayers  and  supplications  which 
so  lately  ascended  from  so  many  quarters  may  be  heard  and  answered, 
and  abundant  blessings  be  poured  down  upon  our  sinful  country !  If 
our  cup  of  iniquity  is  not  yet  full,  gracious  Lord,  0  spare  us ! — spare 
thy  people,  and  hide  them  in  the  clefts  of  the  Rock  of  Ages !" 

Her  Ladyship  felt  "a  particular  call  in  Providence"  to 
wrestle  mightily  with  God  in  behalf  of  our  nation,  and  for  the 
important  work  of  intercession  prayer  meetings  were  estab- 
lished at  her  house.  On  Wednesday,  the  21st  of  February, 
Mr.  Whitefield,  Mr.  Charles  Wesley,  Mr.  Maxfield,  and  Mr. 
Venn  successively  engaged  in  this  solemn  exercise;  and  on 
Friday  the  23rd,  Mr.  Romaine,  Mr.  Wesley,  Mr.  Madan,  and 
Mr.  «fones  conducted  the  service  at  her  Ladyship's  house,  when 
a  deep  sense  of  the  Divine  presence  seemed  to  penetrate  every 
soul  in  attendance. 

^'  I  trust  (says  her  Ladyship)  great  and  permanent  effects  will  fol- 
low, and  national  judgments  be  suspended.  May  the  Lord  graciously 
countenance  this  attempt;  and  grant  that  increasing  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  may  ascend  from  evei^  heart.  Of  late  I  have  felt  the 
most  ardent  desires  for  the  exaltation  of  the  Lord  Jesus  in  every 
heart,  and  the  most  holy  ardour  of  desire  to  promote  his  cause  upon 
earth.  I  seem  to  have  done  nothing,  and  would  lie  low  in  the  dust 
before  him,  and  lament  my  unfiuthfulncss,  my  unprofitableness,  and  my 
unfruitfulness.  May  he  increase  my  faith,  animate  my  heart  with  a 
zeal  for  his  glory,  enlarge  my  sphere,  and  make  me  more  fieuthful  in  the 
sphere  in  which  I  move. 

^  Thursday  the  27  th  (says  Mr.  Wesley)  I  walked  with  my  brother 
and  Mr.  Maxfield  to  Lady  Huntingdon's.  After  breakfast  camo  in 
Messrs.  Whitefield,  Madan,  Romaine,  Jones,  Downing,  and  Venn,  with 
tome  persons  of  quality,  and  a  few  others.  Mr.  Whitefield,  I  found, 
was  to  have  administered  the  sacrament,  but  ho  insisted  upon  my 
doing  it :  after  which,  at  the  request  of  Lady  Huntingdon,  I  preached 
on  1  Cor.  xiii.  13,  ^^  And  now  abideth  faithy  kope^  charity,  these  three^-^ 
but  the  greatest  of  these  is  charity" 

On  the  evening  of  Wednesday,  '.the  28th,  the  usual  prayer- 
meeting  was  held  at  her  Ladysnip's  house,  when  Mr.  Wesley, 
Mr.  \^nn,  and  Mr.  Madan  engaged  in  the  solemn  service, 
which  was  closed  by  a  short  exhortation  from  Mr.  Whitefield. 
The  following  mommg  Mr.  Jones  preached,  and  Mr.  Romaine 
concluded  with  a  short  scriptural  praver,  and  the  usual  bene- 
diction. At  the  prayer  meeting  on  Friday  evening,  Mr.  Charles 
Wesley  gave  an  address;  and  the  other  parts  of  the  service 


SELlNAy  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDOV.  897 

were  conducted  by  Messrs.  Whitefield,  Romaine,  DowniDg,  and 
Venn.  The  Lord's  Supper  was  administered  on  Tuesday,  the 
6th  of  March,  by  Mr.  Whitefield,  when  he  addressed  the  com- 
municants in  a  most  solemn  and  impressive  manner.  ^^  All 
were  touched  to  the  heart,"  says  her  Ladyship,  "  and  dissolved 
in  tears.  My  inmost  soul  felt  penetrated  at  the  height  and 
depth  of  that  love  which  passetb  knowledge,  and  I  was  ready, 
with  Peter,  to  say,  It  is  good  to  be  here.  Lord,  teach  me  how 
to  improve  to  the  utmost  these  gracious  visitations." 

Mr.  Whitefield  was  assisted  by  Messrs.  Romaine  and  Madan. 
The  former  prayed  before  and  the  latter  after  the  distribution 
of  the  elements.  Amongst  the  communicants  were  the  Earl 
and  Countess  of  Dartmouth,  Countess  of  Chesterfield,  Lady 
Gertrude  Hotham,  Sir  Charles  Hotham,  Mrs.  Carteret,  Mrs. 
Cavendish,  Sir  Sidney  Halford  Smythe,  Mr.  Thornton,  Rev. 
Messrs.  Venn,  Jones,  Max  field.  Downing  and  others.  When 
this  solemn  service  was  concluded,  the  Earls  of  Chesterfield  and 
Holderness,  and  several  persons  of  distinction,  with  a  few  others, 
came  in.  Mr.  Whitefield  preached  with  his  accustomed  elo- 
quence and  energy  from  that  passage — "  Him  that  cometh  unto 
me,  I  will  in  no  wise  cast  out"  On  this  occassion  her  Ladyship 
observes :  "  The  Lord  was  eminently  present.  The  wora 
seemed  clothed  with  an  irresistible  [energy,  and  drew  sighs  from 
every  heart  and  tears  from  every  eye.  Mr.  Fletcher  concluded 
with  a  prayer,  every  syllable  of  which  appeared  to  be  uttered 
under  the  immediate  teaching  of  the  spirit,  and  he  has  told  me 
since  that  he  never  had  more  intimate  communion  with  God, 
or  enjoyed  so  much  of  his  immediate  presence  as  on  that  occa- 
sion. Ah  !  how  poor  and  trifling  does  all  created  good  appear 
when  thus  highly  favoured  of  God.  He  in  mercy  keeps  me 
sensible  of  my  weakness,  and  dependent  upon  himself,  for  which 
I  praise  him.  He  has  strengthened  my  body  to  undergo  more 
fatigue  than  usual,  without  being  hurt  by  it.  But  my  pen  would 
fail  to  testify  of  the  goodness  of  my  God.  Bless  the  Lord,  O 
my  soul !  and  forget  not  all  his  benefits." 

It  was  now  that  John  Berridge,  the  vicar  of  Everton,  in  Bed- 
fordshire, and  Mr.   Hicks,  vicar  of  Wrestlingworth,  by  their 
{)reaching,  produced  the  same  convulsions  in  their  hearers  as  had 
brmerly  prevailed  at  Bristol.* 
Lady  Huntingdon  wrote  to  Mr.  Romaine  from  Bath,  request- 

*  An  eye-witness  described  the  church  at  Everton  as  crowded  with  persons, 
from  all  the  country  round ;  **  the  windows  being  filled,  within  and  without, 
and  even  the  outside  of  the  pulpit,  to  the  very  top,  so  that  Mr.  Berridge  seemed 
almost  stifled ;  yet  feeble  and  sickljr  as  he  is,  he  was  continually  strengthened* 
and  his  voice,  for  the  most  put,  distinguishable  in  the  midst  of  au  the  oatcriet.*' 


398  THI  LITB  ANB  TIMES  OF 

ing  him  and  Mr.  Madan  to  repair  immediately  to  Everton,  and 
examine  minutely  into  ihe  circumstances.  They  were  wannly 
received  by  Mr.  Berridge  and  Mr.  Hicks.  At  first  they  were 
astonished,    and   for  a  time   doubted  whether  the  wok   was 

genuine ;  but  after  they  had  conversed  with  several  of  those  who 
ad  fallen  in  violent  convulsive  fits,  and  had  accompanied  Mr. 
Berridge  and  Mr.  Hicks  in  some  of  their  itinerant  excursions, 
and  witnessed  the  efiects  of  their  preaching,  they  were  filled 
with  a  solemn  awe,  and  felt  fiiUy  convinced  the  work  was  of 
God,  though  occasionally  mingled  with  the  wild-fire  of  enthu- 
siasm.* 

Filled  with  astonishment  at  what  God  had  wrought,  and  at 
the  surprising  work  which  he  was  carrying  on  in  the  hearts  of 
multituaes,  Air.  Romaine  and  Mr.  Madan  returned  to  London, 
and  Mr.  Wesley  went  to  Everton,  who,  after  describing  the  cries 
and  convulsions,  says : — 

**  I  have  often  observed  more  or  less  of  these  outward  symp- 
toms to  attend  the  beginning  of  a  general  work  of  God.  So  it  was  m 
New  England^  Scotland,  Holland,  Ireland,  and  many  parts  of  England^ 
bat  after  a  time  they  gradually  decreased,  and  the  work  goes  on  more 
quietly  and  silently.  Those  whom  it  pleases  God  to  employ  in  his 
work  ought  to  be  quite  passive  in  this  respect.  They  should  choo$e 
nothing,  but  leave  entirely  to  Him  all  the  circumstancei  of  his  own 
work." 

In  a  letter  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  Mr.  Wesley  says : — 

*'  The  asreeable  hour  which  I  spent  with  your  Lad3r8hip  the  last 
week,  recsuled  to  my  mind  the  former  times,  and  gave  me  much  mat- 
ter of  thankfulness  to  the  Giver  of  every  good  gift.  I  have  found 
great  satisfaction  in  conversing  with  those  instruments  whom  God  has 

*  On  the  1 3th  of  July  Mr.  Romaine  and  Mr.  Madan  went  with  Mr.  Berridffe 
and  Mr.  Hicks  to  Tablow,  in  Cambridgeshire.  Great  numbers,  feeling  the 
arrows  of  conviction,  fell  to  the  ground,  some  of  whom  seemed  dead,  and  others 
in  the  agonies  of  death ;  the  violence  of  their  bodily  convulsions  exceeding  all 
description.  There  was  also  a  great  crying  and  agonizing  in  prayer,  mixed  with 
deep  and  deadly  groans  on  every  side. 

At  Harlston  Mr.  Berridge  was  greatly  fatigued  and  dejected,  and  said,  M  am 
now  so  weak,  I  must  leave  off  field-preaching."  Nevertheless,  he  cast  himself 
on  the  Lord,  and  preached  with  amazing  energy  to  upwards  of  three  thousand 
hearers.  At  Stapleford,  where  he  had  been  curate  for  five  or  six  years,  at 
Grandchester,  at  Driplow,  Orwell,  and  other  places,  the  like  effects  followed. 
At  Everton,  the  next  Sunday,  about  two  hundred  persons,  chiefly  men,  cried 
aloud  for  mercy ;  but  many  more  were  affected,  pernaps  as  deeply,  though  in  a 
calmer  way. 

f  On  these  extraordinary  manifestations  Mr.  Ralph  Erskine  observes :.. 
**  What  influence  sudden  and  sharp  awakenings  may  have  upon  the  body  1  pre- 
tend not  to  explain.  But  I  make  no  question  Satan,  so  far  as  he  gets  power, 
may  exert  himself  on  such  occasions,  partly  to  hinder  the  good  work  in  the 
persons  who  are  thus  touched  with  sharp  arrows  of  conviction,  and  partly  to 
oitpange  the  work  of  God,  «•  if  it  tended  to  lead  people  to  distnctioii*'* 


SELIKA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  399 

lately  raised  np.  Bat  Btill  there  is  I  know  not  what  in  them  whom 
we  have  known  from  the  beginning,  and  who  have  borne  the  burden  and 
heat  of  the  day,  which  we  do  not  find  in  those  who  have  risen  up  since, 
though  they  are  upright  of  heart.  Perhaps^  too,  those  who  have  but 
lately  come  into  the  harvest  are  led  to  thinK  and  speak  more  largely  of 
justification,  and  the  other  first  principles  of  the  doctrine  of  Christ. 
And  it  may  be  proper  for  them  so  to  do.  Yet  we  find  a  thirst  after 
something  farther.  We  want  to  sink  deeper  and  rise  higher  in  the 
knowledge  of  God  our  Saviour.  We  want  all  helps  for  walking 
closely  with  Him  whom  we  have  received,  that  we  may  the  more 
speedily  come  to  the  measure  of  the  stature  of  the  fulness  of  Christ 

*<  Mr.  Berridge  appears  to  be  one  of  the  most  simple  as  well  as  most 
sensible  men  of  all  whom  it  pleased  God  to  employ  in  reviving  primi- 
tive Christianity.  I  designed  to  have  spent  but  one  night  with  him ; 
but  Mr.  Gilbert's  mistake  (who  sent  him  word  I  would  be  at  Everton 
on  Friday)  obliged  me  to  stay  there  another  day,  or  multitudes  of 
people  would  have  been  disappointed.  They  come  now  twelve  or 
fourteen  miles  to  hear  him ;  and  very  few  come  in  vain.  His  word  is 
with  power  :  he  speaks  as  plain  and  home  as  John  Nelson,  but  with 
all  the  propriety  of  Mr.  Romaine  and  the  tenderness  of  Mr.  Hervey. 

'*  At  Colchester,  likewise,  the  word  of  God  has  free  course — only  no 
house  will  contain  the  congre^tion.  On  Sunday  I  was  obliged  to 
preach  on  St.  John's-green ;  the  people  stood  on  a  smooth  sloping 
ground,  sheltered  by  me  wsJls  of  an  old  castle,  and  behaved  as  men 
who  felt  that  God  was  there. 

*'  I  am  persuaded  your  Liadyship  still  remembers  in  your  prayers 
your  willing  servant,  mr  Christ*s  sake,  John  Wesley." 

Mr.  Berridge  informed  Lady  Huntingdon  of  his  call  to  Cam- 
bridge, to  preach  before  the  University,  complaining  of  his  ill 
health  and  want  of  assistance  in  his  own  parish.  Her  Ladyship 
applied  to  Mr.  Fletcher,  who  volunteered  his  service  till  Mr. 
Madan  or  Mr.  Romaine  could  relieve  him. 

Soon  after  he  had  gone  to  Everton,  Lady  Huntingdon,  accom- 
panied by  Mr.  Madan,  proceeded  thither,  anxious  to  witness  the 
astonishing  eflfects  which  had  there  resulted  from  the  preaching 
of  the  Gospel.  She  had  intimated  her  intention  to  Mr.  Berridge 
some  days  before  her  departure  from  London,  and  on  the  morning 
after  their  arrival,  at  an  early  hour,  an  amazing  concourse  of 
people  had  been  collected  from  all  parts.  At  seven  o'clock  Mr. 
Berridge  preached  in  a  field  near  the  church,  when  the  power  of 
God  fell  upon  all  the  assembled  multitude  in  a  very  uncommon 
manner.  At  eleven  o'clock  public  service  commenced  in  the 
church.  Mr.  Hicks  read  prayers,  after  which  Mr.  Venn  explained 
the  "joy  that  is  in  heaven  over  one  sinner  that  repenteth." 
In  the  afternoon,  the  church  being  unable  to  contain  a  fifth  of 
the  people,  Mr.  Madan  stood  in  the  open  air  and  cried  to  the 
listening  multitude,  <<  If  any  man  thirst,  let  hm  come  unto  me 


E 


400  THS  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

and  drink."  The  following  day  there  was  public  service  again : 
Mr.  Fletcher  read  prayers  and.  Mr.  Madan  spoke  very  ener- 
getically on  *^  Ye  must  be  bom  a^ain."  The  congregation  was 
immense,  the  windows  being  filled  within  and  without.  In  the 
afternoon  Mr.  Berridge  read  prayers,  and  Mr.  Venn  enforced 
these  solemn  words  on  an  attentive  congregation — *'  This  is  life 
eternal,  to  know  thee,  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ 
whom  thou  hast  sent."  Great  numbers  who  were  unable  to  gain 
admittance,  remained  about  the  church  after  the  service  was 
concluded :  Mr.  Berridge  addressed  them  from  the  words  of  the 

rophet — "  Seek  the  Lord  while  he  may  be  found ;  call  upon 

im  while  he  is  near." 
I  (The  arrival  of  Lady  Huntingdon  at  Everton,  and  the  preach- 
ing of  the  ministers  who  accompanied  her,  was  quickly  reported 
for  many  miles  round,  and  awakened  considerable  attention, 
insomuch  that  on  the  following  day  it  was  judged  ten  thousand 
at  least  assembled  to  hear.  While  Mr.  Venn  was  enforcing 
those  awful  words  of  the  prophet — "  The  harvest  is  past,  the 
summer  is  ended,  and  we  are  not  saved,"  several  persons,  both 
men  and  women,  sunk  down  and  wept  bitterly.  In  the  after- 
noon a  still  greater  multitude  collected.  The  evening  being 
calm  and  still,  all  heard  distinctly,  whilst  Mr.  Berridge  preached 
on  these  words — "  Behold  the  Lamb  of  God  who  taketh  away 
the  sin  of  the  world."  Towards  the  close  of  the  sermon,  five 
persons,  almost  at  once,  sunk  down  as  dead.  Others  cried  with 
a  loud  and  bitter  cry,  "  What  must  we  do  to  be  saved  ?"  In  a 
little  time  all  was  silent,  and  Mr.  Berridge  finished  his  sermon, 
after  which  the  service  concluded  with  sinorinff — 

**  Arm  of  the  Lord  awako !  awake ! 
Thine  own  immortal  strength  put  on/'  &c. 

Mr.  Madan  having  consented^to  remain  at  Everton,  to  supply 
Mr.  Berridge's  church  till  Mr.  Romaine  was  at  liberty  to  take 
his  place,  Ladv  Huntingdon  returned  to  London  with  Mr. 
Fletcher,  Mr.  Venn,  and  Mr.  Berridge,  whom  her  Ladyship  was 
desirous  of  introducing  to  the  religious  circles  of  the  metropolis, 
with  a  view  to  his  spiritual  improvement.     During  his  stay  he 

S reached  two  or  three  times  in  the  city  churches,  assisted  by 
Ir.  Whitefield  and  the  Messrs.  Weslev,  and  expounded  almost 
every  morning  and  evening  at  Lady  Huntingdon's,  besides  his 
occasional  lectures  at  Lady  Gertrude  Hotham's,  in  New  Nor- 
folk-street, Grosvenor-square,  and  Lady  Fanny  Shirley's,  in 
South  Audley-street. 

It  was  about  this  time  that  Prince  Edward,  afterwards  created 
Duke  of  York,  paid  a  visit  to  the  Magdalen.     His  Royal  High- 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  401 

ness  having  expressed  a  wish  to  attend  the  evening  service,  a 
party  was  tormed  at  Northumberland  House  for  that  purpose. 
The  Prince*  was  accompanied  by  Colonel  Brudenel,  Lady 
Northumberland,  Lady  Mary  Coke,  Lady  Carlisle,  Miss  Pel- 
ham,  Lady  Hertford,  Lord  Beauchamp,  Lord  Huntingdon, 
and  Horace  Walpole.  As  soon  as  he  entered  the  chapel 
the  organ  played,  and  a  hymn  was  sung  bv  the  Magdalens,  about 
one  hundred  and  thirty  in  number.  After  the  prayers  were 
read.  Dr.  Dodd  preached  an  eloquent  and  impressive  sermon 
from  Luke  xix.  20,  which  was  afterwards  published  by  the  ex- 

Eress  desire  of  the  Prince ;  a  hymn  was  then  sung,  after  which 
is  Royal  Highness  was  conducted  to  the  parlour,  where  the 
Governors  kissed  the  Prince's  hand.  He  particularly  noticed 
Lady  Huntingdon  and  Lady  Chesterfield,  with  whom  he  con- 
versed for  several  minutes  on  the  merits  of  the  sermon  and  the 
excellence  of  the  institution,  expressed  himself  highly  gratified  at 
what  he  had  witnessed,  and  at  taking  his  departure  left  fifty 
pounds  for  the  benefit  of  the  institution.! , 

The  dreadful  calamity  by  which  Lady  Huntingdon's  family 
was  afflicted  in  1 760  had  a  powerful  effect  on  her  Ladyship's 
mind  for  a  season.  Lawrence,  fourth  Earl  of  Ferrers,  eldest 
son  of  her  uncle,  the  Hon.  Lawrence  Shirley,  by  a  daughter  of 
Sir  Walter  Clarges,  of  Aston,  in  Hertfordshire,  I3art.,  though  he 
was  at  times  a  very  intelligent  person,  and  a  nobleman  conver- 
sant in  the  constitution  of  nis  country,  yet,  on  divers  occasions, 
exhibited  symptoms  of  constitutional  insanity.  For  more  than 
a  twelvemonth  he  had  supplied  a  topic  for  conversation  by 
an  attempt  to  murder  his  wife,  and  every  body  that  took  her 
part.  Having  broken  the  peace,  which  the  House  of  Lords  had 
bound  him  over  to  keep,  the  cause  was  again  brought  before 
them ;  but  instead  of  attending  it,  he  went  to  the  assizes  at  Hert- 

*  Lord  Hertford  at  the  head  of  tht  governors,  with  white  staves,  met  the 
Prince  at  the  door,  and  conducted  his  Royal  Highness  into  the  chapel,  where, 
before  the  altar,  was  an  arm-chair  for  him,  with  a  blue  damask  cushion,  and  a 
footstool  of  black  cloth.  Lady  Huntingdon,  Lord  and  Lady  Dartmouth,  Lady 
Fanny  Shirley,  Lady  Gertrude  Hotham,  Lady  Chesterfield,  Lady  Selina  Hastings, 
and  several  persons  of  distinction  occupied  forms  near  his  Rojral  Highness. 

+  At  the  moment  of  the  Prince's  departure,  some  nobleman  observed  to  Lord 
Hertford  that  he  thought  the  sermon  savoured  a  good  deal  of  Methodism.  His 
Lordship  was  about  to  reply,  when  the  Prince,  who  had  overheard  the  remark, 
turned  hastily  round,  and  said — **  Your  Lordship  must  be  f^tidious  indeed  ;  I 
thought  the  discourse  excellent ;  and  well  adapted  to  this  most  useful  institution, 
a  sentiment  in  which  my  Lady  Huntingdon,  I  am  most  happy  to  say,  most  cor- 
diallv  coincides  with  me.  Her  Ladyship,  I  suspect,  is  much  better  versed  in 
theologv  than  either  of  us.**  The  astonisned  Noble  bowed,  and  the  Prince  with 
drew.  It  should  be  noticed,  that  Dr.  Dodd  was  at  this  time  considered  decidedly 
evangelical  in  his  preaching,  and  there  have  been  instances  ofpersons  called 
under  his  ministry  to  a  saving  acqiiaiiitance  of  divine  things.  Tnis  was  some 
years  before  his  awful  falL 


402  THE  LtPE  ANt>  TtBIES  OP 

ford  to  appear  against  a  highwayman.*  The  Countess  wad 
sister  to  Sir  W.  Meredith,  and  had  no  fortune.  The  Earl 
always  said  she  had  trepanned  him  into  matrimony,  having  met 
him  at  an  assembly  where  he  was  intoxicated,  and  having  kept  him 
in  a  state  of  drunkenness  till  the  ceremony  was  over.  As  he 
was  seldom  sober  before  or  afterwards,  it  is  hardly  fair  to  impute 
his  excesses  to  this  pretty,  and,  unless  it  were  a  crime  to  wish  to 
be  a  countess,  very  blameless  person. 

His  misfortunes,  as  he  called  them,  were  dated  from  his  mar- 
riage ;  though  he  had  been  guilty  of  horrid  excesses  unconnected 
with  matrimony,  and  is  even  believed  to  have  killed  a  groom, 
who  died  a  year  after  receiving  a  cruel  beating  from  him.  He 
had  a  mistress  before  his  marriage,  by  whom  he  had  two  or  three 
children,  and  her  he  took  again  after  the  separation  from  his  wife. 
He  was  fond  of  both,  and  used  both  ill :  Lady  Ferrers  so  ill — 
always  carrying  pistols  to  bed,  and  threatening  to  kill  her  before 
morning,  beatmgher,  and  being  jealous  without  provocation — that 
she  obtained  a  separation  from  him  by  act  of  Parliament,  in  which 
were  appointed  receivers  of  his  estate,  to  secure  her  allowance. 
This  he  could  not  bear.  However,  he  named  his  steward  as  one 
of  these  receivers.  Afterwards,  finding  out  that  Mr.  Johnsonf  that 
paid  Lady  Ferrers  fifty  pounds,  without  his  knowledge,  and  sus- 
pecting him  of  being  m  the  confederacy  against  him,  he  deter- 
mined, when  he  failed  of  opportunities  of  murdering  his  wife,  to 
kill  the  steward,  which  he  effected. 

Having  ordered  Mr.  Johnson  to  attend  him  at  Stanton,  his 
lordship  contrived  to  send  all  the  men-servants  out  of  the  way, 
so  that  there  was  no  person  in  the  house  but  himself  and  three 
female  servants.  On  Mr.  Johnson  entering  the  room.  Lord 
Ferrers  locked  the  door.  His  lordship  then  ordered  him  to 
settle  an  account,  and  after  a  little  time  produced  a  paper  pur- 
porting, as  he  said,  to  be  a  confession  of  his  villany,  and  required 

*  Page,  a  robber  of  extraordinary  courage  and  s^ingular  adventures  and  escapes, 
had  stopped  Lord  Ferrers.  His  Lordship  pulled  out  a  pistol,  but  while  he  held 
it  trembled  violently.  The  robber  laughed  and  took  the  weapon  out  of  his 
hand,  quietly  observing,  *•  I  know,  my  Lord,  you  always  carry  more  than  one 
pistol  about  you,  let's  have  the  rest.**  At  the  trial  Page  pleaded  that  his  Lord- 
ship was  excommunicated,  and  could  not  give  evidence.  He  was  consequently 
acquitted. 

f  Mr.  Johnson  had  been  taken  into  the  family  of  Lord  Ferrers  in  his  youth, 
and  was  then  his  Lordship's  land  steward.  Hoping,  probably,  that  he  should 
have  sufficient  influence  over  him  to  have  procured  some  deviation  from  his 
trust  in  his  lordship's  favour,  he  soon  found  that  Mr.  Johnson  would  not  oblige 
him  at  the  expense  of  his  honesty.  From  that  time  he  conceived  an  implacable 
re«entment  against  him  ;  and  it  is  easy  to  conceive  that  every  opposition  to  the 
¥^1  of  a  roan  to  haughty,  impetuous,  and  irascible,  would  proauce  the  most 
disaatroufl  effects.  Mr.  Johnson  lived  at  the  house  belonging  to  the  farm  which 
he  hdd  ander  hU  Lordthip,  called  liOimt,  about  half  a  mile  distant  fipom  Stanton. 


^ELINA,  COltNTESS  OF  HtTNTINODON.  40d 

Mr.  Johnson  to  sign  it.  Johnson  refused ;  on  which  his  lordship, 
drawing  a  pistol  from  his  pocket,  ordered  him  to  kneel  down, 
which  the  terrified  man  did,  upon  one  knee  ;  but  Lord  Ferrers 
cried  out  so  loud  as  to  be  heard  by  one  of  the  women  at  the 
kitchen  door,  "  Down  on  your  other  knee — declare  what  you 
have  acted  against  Lord  Ferrers — your  time  is  come,  and  you 
must  die."  He  fired,  and  the  ball  entered  Mr.  Johnson's 
body  just  below  the  last  rib,  yet  he  did  not  drop,  but  rose  up, 
and  expressed  the  sensations  of  a  dying  man  both  by  his  looks 
and  broken  sentences.  An  alarm  was  soon  given,  and  Dr.  Kirk- 
land  was  sent  for.* 

At  the  time  of  his  arrest  Lord  Ferrers  was  armed  with  a  blun- 
derbuss, two  or  three  pistols,  and  a  dagger.  From  Ashby-de-la- 
Zouch  his  lordship  was  sent  to  Leicester  gaol,  and  from  thence, 
about  a  fortnight  afterwards,  was  brought  to  London,  in  his  own 
landau  and  six  horses,  under  a  strong  guard.  He  was  dressed  like 
a  Jockey,  in  close  riding  frock,  boots,  and  cap.  Immediately  on 
his  arrival,  he  was  earned  before  the  House  of  Lords.  It  is  im- 
possible to  conceive  the  shock  which  the  evidence  contained  in 
the  coroner's  inquest  gave  the  court :  many  of  the  lords  were 
standing  to  look  at  him,  but  they  soon  turned  from  him  with 
detestation.  He  was  then  committed  to  the  custody  of  the 
Black  Rod,  and  ordered  to  the  Tower. 

After  two  months'  imprisonment  in  the  Tower,  on  the  1 6th  April, 
1759,  Lord  Ferrers  was  brought  to  his  trial  in  Westminster  Hall. 
He  would  not  plead  guilty j  and  yet  had  nothing  to  plead;  and  at 
last,  to  humour  his  family,  pleaded  madness^  against  his  inclina- 
tion. It  was  melancholy  to  see  two  of  his  brothers  brought  to 
depose  to  lunacy  as  existing  in  their  own  blood,  in  order  to  save 
their  brother's  life.f  On  a  former  affair  in  the  House  of  Lords 
he  is  said  to  have  behaved  with  great  shrewdness ;  no  such  thing, 
however,  appeared  at  his  trial ;  and  it  was  afterwards  pretended 
that  his  being  forced  by  hisfamily,  against  his  inclination,  to  plead 

*  From  this  period  till  he  was  arrested  Lord  Ferrers  continued  to  drink  por- 
ter, and  in  proportion  as  it  took  effect  his  passions  became  more  tumultuous. 
Having  shot  tne  steward  at  three  o'clock  in  the  afternoon,  he  persecuted 
bim  till  one  in  the  morning,  threatening  to  murder  him,  and  attempting  to 
tear  off  his  bandages.  The  last  time  he  went  to  him  he  pulled  him  by  the  wig, 
calling  him  villain ;  and  it  was  with  great  difficulty  that  Miss  Johnson  and  those 
about  her  father  could  prevent  his  lordship  from  striking  him.  The  poor  man 
was  so  terrified  by  his  outrageous  conduct,  that  Dr.  Kirkland  at  length  succeeded 
in  removing  him  in  the  middle  of  the  night  to  his  own  house,  where  he  Ian- 
gashed  till  the  next  morning  ;  and  when  the  Eari  heard  the  poor  creature  was 
dead,  he  said  he  gloried  in  having  killed  bim. 

f  **  His  brothers  (sa3n  Horace  Walpole)  were  brought  to  his  trial  to  prove 
lunacy  against  their  own  blood.  One  of  them  [Mr.  Shirley]  is  a  deigyouui, 
suspended  by  the  Bishop  of  London  for  bwg  a  Methodist.'' 


404  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

insanity,  prevented  his  exerting  his  parts ;  but  Lord  Ferrers  did 
not  act  in  any  thing  as  if  his  family  nad  influence  over  him.* 

The  trial  lasted  three  days.  Iiis  lordship  was  sentenced  to 
be  hanged,  and  to  have  his  body  dissected  and  anatomised,  the 
evidence  of  his  insanity  not  proving  satisfactory  to  their  lord- 
ships. But  the  Right  Hon.  Lord  Henley,  late  Earl  of  Notting- 
ham, who  acted  as  High-Steward  at  this  awful  solemnity,  with 
consent  of  the  peers,  respited  his  lordship's  execution  till  Mon- 
day, May  5th.  On  receiving  sentence,  the  unfortunate  noble- 
man begged  his  peers  to  recommend  him  to  mercy :  but  all 
application  from  himself  and  friends  proved  ineffectual,  and  he 
was  left  for  execution. 

The  conduct  of  Lord  Ferrers  after  his  condemnation  was 
singular  and  extraordinary.  The  very  night  he  received  sen- 
tence he  played  at  picquet,  and  would  have  continued  to  play 
every  evening,  had  not  permission  been  refused,  at  the  particular 
request  of  Lady  Huntingdon  and  other  members  of  his  family. 
Lord  Cornwalhs,  Governor  of  the  Tower,  shortened  his  allowance 
of  wine  after  his  conviction,  agreably  to  the  strict  acts  concern- 
ing the  crime  of  murder  which  had  passed  both  Houses  of  Par- 
liament. This  his  lordship  much  disliked,  and  at  last  pressed 
his  brother  to  intercede  that  at  least  he  might  have  more  porter; 

♦  "  Many  Peers  (says  Horace  Walpole)  were  absent.  Lord  Foley  and  Lord 
Jersey  attended  only  the  first  day  ;  and  Lord  Huntingdon  and  my  nephew.  Lord 
Orford  (in  compliment  to  his  mother,  as  related  to  the  prisoner,)  withdrew 
without  voting.  But  never  was  a  criminal  more  literally  tried  by  his  peers  ;  for  the 
three  persons  who  interested  themselves  most  in  the  examination,  were  at  least 
as  mad  as  he^Lord  Ravenscroft,  Lord  Talbot,  and  Lord  Fortescue.  Lideed,  the 
firsk  was  almost  frantic.  The  seats  of  the  peeresses  were  not  nearly  full.  Lady 
Coventry  was  there.  I  sat  next  but  one  to  her,  and  would  not  have  thought  she 
had  been  ill ;  yet  they  are  positive  she  has  but  a  few  weeks  to  live.  Lady 
Augusta  was  m  the  same  galleiy ;  the  Duke  of  York  and  his  young  brothers 
were  in  the  Prince  of  Wales's  box,  who  was  not  there,  no  more  than  the  Prin- 
cess, Princess  Emily,  nor  the  Duke.  It  was  an  agreeable  humanity  in  the  Duke 
of  York,  who  would  not  take  his  seat  in  the  House  before  the  trial,  that  he 
might  not  vote  on  it  There  are  so  many  young  peers  that  the  show  was  fine 
even  in  that  respect.  The  Duke  of  Richmond  was  the  finest  figure ;  the  Duke 
of  Marlborough,  with  the  best  countenance  in  the  world,  looked  clumsy  in  his 
robes  ;  he  had  new  ones,  having  given  away  his  father's.  There  were  others 
not  at  all  so  indifferent  about  the  antiquity  of  theirs.  Lord  Huntingdon's,  Lord 
Abervagenny's,  and  Lord  Castlehaven's  scarcely  hung  on  their  backs ;  the  two 
former  they  pretend  \vere  used  at  the  trial  of  the  Queen  of  Scots." 

Horace  Walpole,  in  this  note  refers  to  the  mother  of  his  nephew :  she  was 
Margaret  Countess  Doivager  of  Orford,  who  had  married  the  uncle  of  Lord 
Ferrers,  the  Hon.  Sewallis  Shirley,  Comptroller  of  the  Household  to  Queen 
Charlotte,  and  M.P.  for  Brackley  and  Callington.  The  Lady  Coventry,  to 
whose  illness  he  refers,  died  on  the  Ist  of  October  in  the  same  year.  [Sec 
Mason*s  elegy  on  this  celebrated  beauty  in  his  poems.]  She  was  the  eldest 
daughter  of  John  Gunning,  Esq.,  and  sister  to  the  Duchess  of  Argyle.  Ladv 
Coventry  left  two  daughters,  woo  were  both  married,  and,  strange  to  say,  both 
divorced  on  the  ground  of  ill  conduct. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  405 

"  for,"  said  he,  "  what  I  have  is  not  a  draught."  Mr.  Shirle> 
remonstrated,  but  at  last  consented — "  Then,"  said  the  Earl, 
"  now  is  as  good  a  time  as  any  to  take  leave  of  you — adieu  !" 

Very  great  exertions  were  made  by  Lady  Huntingdon  and 
other  branches  of  the  family  to  save  his  life.  Two  petitions  were 
presented  to  the  King — one  by  his  mother,  and  Ihe  other  by  all 
the  members  of  his  family ;  but  his  Majesty  said,  as  the  House 
of  Lords  had  unanimously  found  him  guilty  he  would  not  inter- 
fere. Another  petition  was  presented  by  my  Lord  Keeper,  but 
the  King  refused  to  hear  him. 

Dr.  Pearce,  Bishop  of  Rochester,  oflFered  his  services  to  his 
Lordship :  he  thanked  the  Bishop,  and  said,  as  his  own  brother 
was  a  clergyman,  he  chose  to  have  him ;  but  Lady  Huntingdon 
was  more  frequently  with  him  than  any  other  relation.  The 
Earl,  although  by  no  means  disposed  to  pay  attention  to  the  sub- 
jects she  brought  before  his  mmd,  allowed  her  to  visit  him  fre- 
quently, and  often  sent  for  her  for  the  sake  of  company.  He 
grew  tired  of  her  Ladyship's  unwearied  exertions  to  produce 
effect  upon  a  conscience  so  hardened  and  impenetrable,  and 
complained  that  she  was  enough  to  provoke  anybody;  yet  he 
permitted  her  to  visit  him  to  the  last,  even  after  he  had  declined 
seeing  his  brothers ;  and  had  two  interviews  with  Mr.  Whitefield, 
to  whom  he  behaved  with  great  politeness.  At  Lady  Hunting- 
don's request  Mr.  Whitefield  repeatedly  offered  up  public  prayer 
for  Lord  Ferrers ;  "  and  that  impertinent  fellow,  (says  Horace 
Walpole,)  told  his  enthusiasts  in  his  sermons  that  my  Lord's 
heart  was  stone."  The  very  hardened  conduct  of  Lord  Ferrers, 
through  every  intricacy  of  this  most  horrid  affair,  even  to  the 
last  moment  of  his  departure  out  of  life,  but  too  well  justified 
Mr.  Whitefield.  Witness  his  fearful  insensibility  the  night  before 
his  execution,  when  he  made  one  of  his  keepers  read  Hamlet  to 
him  after  he  was  in  bed ;  he  paid  all  his  bills  in  the  morning  as 
coolly  as  if  leaving  an  inn,  and  half  an  hour  before  the  arrival 
of  the  sheriffs  to  convey  him  to  the  place  of  execution,  corrected 
some  verses  he  had  written  in  the  Tower,  in  imitation  of  the 
Duke  of  Buckingham's  epitaph : — 

Dttbius  sed  nan  improbus  vixi^ 

In  doubt  I  lived — ^in  doubt  I  die, — 

Yet  stand  prepared  the  vast  abyss  to  try,— 

And  undismay'd  expect  eternity  !* 

*  The  Earl  wanted  much  to  see  his  mistress  :  my  Lord  Cornwallis  consulted 
Lady  Huntingdon  whether  he  should  permit  it.  ^  Oh  !  by  no  means  (said  the 
Countess)  it  would  be  letting  him  die  in  adultery."  He  resolved  not  to  take 
leave  of  his  children,  four  giris,  but  on  the  scaffold,  and  then  to  read  to  them  a 

VOL.  I. 


406  TAS  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

On  the  morning  of  the  5th  of  May  his  body  was  demanded 
of  the  keeper  at  the  gates  of  the  Tower  by  the  sheriffs  of  Lon- 
don and  Middlesex.  His  Lordship  being  mformed  of  it,  sent  a 
message  to  the  sheriffs  requesting  that  he  might  go  in  his  own 
landau,  instead  of  the  mourning  coach  that  had  been  provided 
by  his  femily ;  and  his  request  being  granted,  he  entered  his 
landau,  drawn  by  six  horses,  with  Mr.  Humphries,  chaplain  of 
the  Tower,  who  had  been  admitted  to  his  Lordship  that  morn- 
ing for  the  first  time.  The  landau  was  conducted  to  the  outer 
gate  by  the  oflScers  of  the  Tower,  and  was  there  delivered  to 
the  sheriffs.  Here  Mr.  Sheriff  Vaillant  entered  the  landau  of 
Lord  Ferrers,  and  expressing  his  concern  at  having  so  melan- 
choly a  duty  to  perform ;  his  Lordship  said,  "  he  was  much 
obliged  to  him,  and  took  it  kindly  that  he  accompanied  him." 

He  was  dressed  in  his  wedding  clothes,  which  were  of  a  light 
colour,  and  embroidered  in  silver,  and  said  he  thought  this,  at 
least,  as  good  an  occasion  of  putting  them  on  as  that  for  which 
they  were  first  made.  Soon  after  Mr.  Sheriff  Vaillant  came 
into  the  landau,  he  said,  "  You  may  perhaps,  sir,  think  it 
strange  to  see  me  in  this  dress,  but  I  have  my  particular  reasons 
for  it." 

Sir  William  Meredith,  and  even  Lady  Huntingdon,  were 
strongly  convinced  that  his  courag^e  would  fail  him  at  last ;  but 
they  were  deceived.  His  courage  rose  where  it  was  most  likely 
to  fail.  The  mixture  of  pageantry,  shame,  ignominy,  and  even 
of  delay,  could  not  shake  his  resolution.  He  set  out  from  the 
Tower  at  nine,  amidst  crowds  of  spectators.* 

The  procession  was  two  hours  and  three  quarters  on  its  way ; 
but  dunng  the  whole  time  Lord  Ferrers  appeared  perfectly  easy 
and  composed,  though  he  often  expressed  his  desire  to  have  it 
over,  saying,  "  that  the  apparatus  of  death,  and  the  passing 

very  bitter  paper  be  bad  drawn  up  against  tbe  Meredith  family,  and  on  tbe 
House  of  Lords  for  tbeir  first  intenerence  in  separating  biro  from  Lady  Ferrers. 
Tbis  Lady  Huntingdon,  with  her  usual  good  sense,  persuaded  him  to  drop,  and 
having  brought  his  children  to  him  he  took  a  cold  farewell  of  them  the  day 
before.  He  had  written  two  letters  during  the  week  to  Lord  Comwallis  on 
some  of  these  requests :  they  were  cool  and  rational,  and  concluded  with  de- 
siring him  not  to  mind  the  requests  of  his  family  in  his  behalf,  which  he  con- 
sidered extremely  absurd. 

*  First  went  a  large  body  of  constables  for  the  county  of  Middlesex,  preceded 
by  one  of  the  high  constables — a  narty  of  horse  grenadiers  and  a  party  of  foot 
— then  Mr.  Sheriff  Errington  in  his  chariot  and  six,  the  horses  dressed  with 
ribbons— next  Lord  Ferrers,  in  his  own  landau  and  six,  escorted  by  parties  of 
horse  and  foot — Mr.  Sheriff  Vaillant's  chariot  followed  vnth  the  under  sheriff, 
Mr.  Nicols— a  mourning  coach  and  six  with  some  of  his  Lordship's  fHends.. 
and  a  hearse  and  six,  which  was  provided  for  the  conveyance  of  the  corpse  from 
the  place  of  execution  to  Surgeons*  Hall. 


SfeLlNA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  407 

through  such  crowds  of  people,  were  ten  times  worse  than  death 
itself."  At  first  his  Lordship  talked  on  indifferent  matters,  and 
observing  the  prodigious  confluence  of  people,  he  said,  "but  they 
never  saw  a  lord  hanged,  and  perhaps  will  never  see  another." 
One  of  the  dragoons  was  thrown  in  consequence  of  his  horse's  leg 
becoming  entangled  in  the  hind  wheel.  Liord  Ferrers  expressed 
much  concern,  and  said,  "  I  hope  there  will  be  no  death  to-day  but 
mine,"  and  was  pleased  when  Mr.  Sheriff  Vaillant  told  him  that 
the  man  was  not  hurt.  He  told  the  sheriff  "  that  he  had  written 
to  the  King  to  beg  that  he  might  suffer  there  where  his  ances- 
tor, the  Earl  of  Essex,  the  favourite  of  Elizabeth,  had  suffered, 
and  was  in  greater  hopes  of  obtaining  that  favour,  as  he  had  the 
honour  of  being  alliea  to  his  Majesty  and  of  quartering  part  of 
the  royal  arms;  he  thought  it  hard  (he  said)  that  he  must  die  at 
the  place  appointed  for  the  execution  of  common  felons."  The 
sheriff  made  excuses  to  him  on  his  office.  "  On  the  con- 
trary (said  the  Earl)  1  am  much  obliged  to  you.  I  feared 
the  disagreeableness  of  the  duty  might  make  you  depute  your 
under-sheriff.  As  you  are  so  good  as  to  execute  it  yourself,  I 
am  persuaded  the  dreadful  apparatus  will  be  conducted  with 
more  expedition." 

Mr.  Humphries,  chaplain  of  the  Tower,  who  sat  backwards, 
then  thought  it  his  turn  to  speak,  and  began  to  talk  on  religious 
subjects ;  but  Lord  Ferrers  received  the  overture  with  impatience. 
However,  the  chaplain  persevered,  and  said  he  wished  to  bring 
his  Lordship  to  some  confession  or  acknowledgment  of  contri- 
tion for  a  cnme  so  repugnant  to  the  laws  of  God  and  man,  and 
wished  him  to  endeavour  to  do  whatever  could  be  done  in  so 
short  a  time.  The  Earl  replied,  "  he  had  done  every  thing  he 
had  purposed  to  do  with  regard  to  God  and  man ;  and  as  to  dis- 
courses on  religion,  you  and  I  sir  (said  he  to  the  clergyman,) 
shall  probably  not  agree  on  that  subject.  The  passage  is  very 
short — you  will  not  nave  time  to  convince  me,  nor  I  to  refute 
you;  it  cannot  be  ended  before  we  arrive."  The  clergyman 
still  insisted,  and  urged  that,  at  least,  the  world  would  expect 
some  satisfaction  and  would  naturally  be  very  inquisitive  con- 
cerning the  religion  his  Lordship  professed.  Lord  Ferrers 
replied,  with  some  impatience — 

^^  Sir,  what  have  I  to  do  with  the  world  ?  I  am  going  to  pay  a  for- 
feit life,  which  my  country  has  thought  proper  to  take  from  me.  What 
do  I  care,  now,  what  the  world  thinks  of  me  ?  Bnt,  sir,  since  you  do 
desire  some  confession,  I  confess  one  thing  to  you :  I  do  believe  there 
is  a  God,  the  Maker  of  all  things.  As  to  modes  of  worship,  we  had 
better  not  talk  on  them :  all  nations  and  countries  have  a  form  of  reli- 
gion by  which  the  people  are  governed,  and  whoever  disturbe  it  I  look 
cc2 


408  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

upon  as  an  eneniy  to  society.  Whatever  my  notions  may  haTC  been, 
I  have  never  propagated  them,  or  endeavoured  to  {»ain  persons  over  to 
my  persuasion.  I  always  thought  Lord  Bolingbroke  in  the  wrong  to 
publish  his  notions  on  religion :  I  will  not  fiedl  into  the  same  error. 
The  many  sects  and  their  disputes  about  religion  have  almost  turned  ^ 
morality  out  of  doors :  and  I  can  never  believe  what  some  sectaries 
teach,  that  faith  alone  will  save  mankind ;  so  that  if  a  man,  just  before 
he  dies,  should  say  only — ^  I  believe' — that  that  alone  will  save  him." 

The  chaplain  represented  to  him  that  it  would  be  expected 
from  one  of  his  calling,  and  that  even  decency  required  that 
some  prayer  should  be  used  on  the  scaffold,  and  asked  his  leave, 
at  least,  to  use  the  Lord's  Prayer  there.  Lord  Ferrers  replied, 
**  I  always  thought  it  a  good  prayer ;  you  may  use  it  if  you 
please." 

The  landau  being  now  advanced  to  the  place  of  execution,  his 
Lordship  alighted  from  it,  and,  with  the  same  composure  and 
fortitude  of  mind  he  bad  possessed  from  the  time  he  left  the 
Tower,  mounted  the  scaffold :  it  was  hung  with  black  by  the 
undertaker,  at  the  expense  of  his  family.  Under  the  gallows 
was  a  newly  invented  stage,  to  be  struck  from  imder  him.  He 
showed  no  kind  of  fenr  or  discomfK)sure,  only  just  looking  at 
the  gallows  with  a  slight  motion  of  dissatisfaction.  He  said 
little,  kneeled  for  a  moment  at  the  Lord's  Prayer,  and  afterwards, 
with  great  energy,  uttered  the  follo\%'ing  ejaculations,  **  O  God  ! 
forgive  me  all  my  errors — pardon  all  my  sins." 

His  Lordship  then  rising  quickly  mounted  the  upper  stage. 
He  had  come  pinioned  with  a  black  sash,  and  was  unwilling  to 
have  his  hands  tied,  or  his  face  covered,  but  was  persuaded  to 
both.  When  the  rope  was  put  round  his  neck,  he  turned  pale, 
but  recovered  instantly.  Within  seven  minutes  after  leaving  the 
landau  the  signal  was  given  for  striking  the  stage,  and  in  four 
minutes  he  was  quite  dead.* 

Mr.  Shirley  remained  in  London  some  time  after  the  execu- 
tion, in  order  to  pay  his  brother's  debts,  that  no  further  dishonour 
might  be  reflected  on  his  memory.  Lady  Huntingdon,  likewise, 
continued  in  London  till  the  end  of  June.     This  is  confirmed  by 


•  «• 


This  extniordinaTy  history  of  Lord  Ferrer  sis  closed,  Tsaj^  Horace  Walpole 
to  George  Montague)  :  **  he  was  executed  yesterday.  Madness,  that  in  other 
countries  is  disorder,  is  here  a  systematic  diaracter :  it  does  not  hinder  people 
from  forming  a  plan  of  conduct,  and  from  even  dying  agreeably  to  it  You 
remember  how  the  last  Ratcliffe  died  with  the  utmost  propriety ;  so  did  this 
horrid  lunatic,  coolly  and  sensibly.  His  own  and  his  wife*s  relations  had  asserted 
that  he  would  tremble  at  last.  No  such  thing ;  he  shamed  heroes.  With  all 
his  madness  he  was  not  mad  enough  to  be  struck  with  Lady  Huntingdon's  ser- 
mons. The  Methodists  have  nothing  to  brag  of  his  conversion,  though  White- 
field  prayed  for  him  and  preached  about  lum.  I  have  not  heard  that  Isdj 
Fanny  dabbled  with  his  souL*^ 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  O  F  HUNTINGDON.  409 

an  extract  of  a  letter  from  the  Countess  of  Northumberland  to 
Mr.  Lindsay,  dated  June  17th  : — 

^^As  I  am  in  doubt  about  your  direction  I  shall  send  this  to 
Northumberland  House,  and  order  them  to  carry  it  to  Lady  Hunting- 
don, where,  I  conclude,  they  will  be  able  to  learn  how  to  convey  it 
safely  to  you.  My  Lord  desires  his  compliments  to  you,  and  I  beg  to 
trouble  you  with  mine  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  Lady  Selina,  and  Mrs. 
Hastings."* 


CHAPTER  XXIV. 

Proposed  Union  among  the  Evangelical  Clergy — Methodism  in  Scotland-i-Ladjr 
Frances  Grardiner — Mr.  Townsend  sent  to  Edinburgh — Mr.  De  Courcy — 
Lady  Glenorchy«.Mr.  Wesley — Lady  MaxwelL— Samson  Occum,  the  Indian 
preacher^— -Mohegan  Indians— Dr.  Haweis— Affair  of  Aldwincle — Lady  Hunt- 
ingdon purchases  the  Advowson  —writes  to  Mr.  Tbomton-.Lady  Hunting, 
don's  Letters  to  Lord  Dartmouth  and  Mr.  Madan^^Anecdote. 

It  was  now  that  Mr.  Wesley  attempted  to  form  an  open  and 
active  union  between  all  the  c1erg}'men  who  preached  these 
fundamental  truths— -original  sin^  and  justification  by  faith, 
producing  inward  and  outward  holiness.  With  this  hope  he 
transmitted  a  circular  letter  to  some  fifty  ministers  of  the 
Church,  known  in  later  times  by  the  appellation  of  "  Evange- 
lical, or  Gospel  ministers,"  wherein  he  proposed  that,  leaving 
free  the  disputable  points  of  predestination  on  one  side,  and 
perfection  on  the  other ;  laying  no  stress  upon  expressions,  and 
binding  themselves  to  no  peculiar  discipline,!  they  should  think 
and  speak  kindly  of  each  other,  form,  as  it  were,  a  defensive 
league,  and  each  help  the  other  on  in  his  work,  and  enlarge  his 
influence  by  all  rightful  means. 

*'  For  (as  he  said,  in  a  letter  to  Lady  Huntingdon)  some  years  since 
God  began  a  great  work  in  England,  but  the  labourers  were  few ;  at 
first  these  few  were  of  one  heart,  but  this  did  not  continue  long ;  one 
and  another  broke  off,  till  no  two  of  us  were  left  together  in  the  work, 
but  my  brother  and  me.  This  prevented  much  good,  and  occasioned 
much  evil ;  it  grieved  our  spirits  and  weakened  our  hands ;  it  gave  the 
conunon  enemies  occasion  to  blaspheme ;   it  perplexed  and  puzzled 

•  Widow  of  Henry  Hastings,  Esq.,  and  mother  of  the  Rev.  Theophilus  Henry 
Hastings,  de  Jure  11  th  Earl  of  Huntingdon,  and  Col.  George  Hastings,  father 
of  Hans  Francis,  the  late  Earl. 

•f*  That  is  that  some  should  remain  regular,  others  irregular ;  some  cither  of 
the  two,  and  some  again  neither  one  nor  the  other. 


410  Tins  LIFE   AND  TIMES   OF 

many  sincere  Christians  ;  it  eansed  many  to  draw  back  to  perdition  ;  it 
grieved  the  Holy  Spirit  of  God. 

''  As  labourers  increased,  disunion  increased ;  offences  were  multi- 
plied; and  instead  of  coming  nearer  to,  they  stood  farther  and  farther 
from  each  other ;  till,  at  length,  those  who  were  not  only  brethren  in 
Christ,  but  fellow- labourers  in  his  Gospel,  had  no  more  connexion*  nor 
fellowship  with  each  other  than  Protestants  have  with  Papists." 

This  attempt  at  union  took  place  only  a  few  years  before  Mr* 
Wesley's  great  and  final  breach  with  his  Calvinistic  brethren. 

It  was  in  1751  that  Mr.  Wesley,  accompanied  by  Mr.  Chris- 
topher Hopper,  first  sought  Scotland,  on  a  visit  to  Colonel 
Galatin,  then  in  quarters  at  Musselborough.  Notwithstanding 
the  warning  of  Mr.  Whitefield,  who  had  told  him  that  his  prin- 
cipleswould  not  do  in  Scotland,  he  preached  frequently  and  with 
great  success.f  Dr.  Gillies  (Glasgow),  Mr.  Wardrope  (Bath- 
gate), Mr.  Adams  ^Falkirk),  and  other  ministers,  as  well  as 
several  of  the  nobility,  received  him  with  great  kindnes  s,  and 
listened  with  respect  to  his  exhortations;  but  Mr.  Wesley's 
comments  on  Mr.  Hervey's  "Theron  and  Aspasia"  produced  a 
new  work,  called  "  Aspasia  Vindicated,"  published  after  Mr. 
Hervey's  death,  and  reflecting  on  the  opinions  of  Mr.  Wesley. 
About  the  time  of  which  we  write  (1766),  this  work  was  re- 
printed with  a  preface  by  Dr.  Erskine,  one  of  the  ministers  of 
the  old  Grey  Friar's  Church,  Edinburgh.  Lady  Frances  Gar- 
diner (widow  of  the  pious  Colonel),  and  Lady  Glenorchy,  who 
had  been  introduced  by  Lady  Huntingdon  to  Mr.  Whitefield, 
and  who,  though  differing  from  Mr.  Wesley,  attended  his  preach- 
ing and  the  ministry  of  his  associates,  with  other  distinguished 
persons,  separated  from  him  after  the  publication  of  these  letters. 

It  was  now  (1767)  that  Mr.  Townsend  visited  Scotland,  on  a 
mission  from  Lady  Huntingdon,  as  before  adverted  to,  when-her 
Ladyship  was  detained  at  Kippax,  and  prevented  from  visiting 
Scotland  according  to  her  fixed  intention.  Mr.  Townsend  was 
received  by  Drs.  Webster  and  Erskine,  Messrs.  Walker,  Plen- 
derleath,  and  Johnson,  and  other  pious  and  able  ministers  of  the 
Established  Church.  He  preached  at  Coldstream  (then  a  small 
village)  on  his  first  entrance  into  Scotland,  thence  in  two  days 
he  reached  Edinburgh,  where  he  preached  first  at  Mr.  Lee's 
English  chapel,  to  one  hundred  and  fifty  people,  and  then  in  the 
Park  to  a  vast  multitude,  afterwards  in  the  College  church,  and 
then  at  Dalkeith,  and  afterwards  at  Leith,  with  great  success. 

*  The  remainder  of  this  letter  is  like  that  addressed  to  the  Evangelical  clergy 
before  alluded  to,  and  which  is  so  well  known  that  we  do  not  think  it  necessary 
to  insert  it  at  length. 

f  Sir  Walter  Scott,  then  a  youth,  heard  him ;  but  he  remarks  that  Wesley 
was  too  colloc^uial  for  Sawney. 


SELINA)    COUNTESS  6F  HUNTINGDON.  411 

He  was  accompanied  by  Mr.  Davies,  and  remained  In  Edinburgh 
at  least  two  months.  During  his  stay  he  preached  at  five 
o'clock  in  the  morning,  at  which  early  hour  the  church,  and  even 
the  neighbouring  park,  were  crowded. 

These  proceedings,  under  the  patronage  of  Lady  Huntings 
don  and  Lady  Glenorchy,  and  the  eflForts  of  the  clergy  of  Edin- 
burgh against  Arminianism,  raised  up  hosts  against  Mr.  Wesley 
on  his  return  to  Scotland.  He  refers  in  his  Journal  to  the  la- 
bours of  ^^good  Mr,  Townsend^^  whereby  his  flock  of  one  him- 
dred  and  fifty  were  reduced  to  fifty.  Mr.  Townsend  soon  after 
revisited  Edinburgh,  under  the  patronage  of  Lady  Huntingdon, 
and,  at  Lady  Glenorchy's  desire,  Mr.  De  Courcy  and  Mn 
Erasmus  Middleton,  met  him  there,  and  they,  alternately  with 
Mr.  Wesley's  preachers,  performed  divine  service  in  Lady  Glen- 
orchy's  chapel.  The  former  being  decidedly  Calvinistic,  and 
the  latter  Perfectionists,  an  incon^uity  in  teaching  arose,  to 
remedy  which  Lady  Glenorchy  withdrew  from  Mr.  Wesley's 
connexion.  Her  Ladyship,  in  a  letter  to  a  friend,  says,  "the 
Methodists  charge  Mr.  De  Courcy  with  having  influenced  me, 
and  Lady  Maxwell,  in  particular,  is  greatly  onended  with  me.'* 
Mr.  Wesley's  letter  to  Lady  Maxwell  about  this  note  especially 
warns  her  against  the  influence  of  Mr.  De  Courcy,  and  the 

1)reaching  of  Mr.  Townsend ;  prophesying  that  the  former,  at 
east,  will  be  a  considerable  favourite  with  Lady  Glenorchy. 
The  Wesleyan  doctrine  and  practice  have  never  made  great 
progress  in  Scotland. 

About  this  period  the  Rev.  Samson  Occum*  arrived  in  Eng- 
land, with  Mr.  Whitaker,  the  minister  of  Norwich,  to  promote 
the  interests  of  the  Indian  charity  school  founded  by  Dr.  Eleazar 
Wheeloch,  one  of  the  most  interesting,  eloquent,  and  successful 
ministers  in  New  England,  first  Presiaent  and  Founder  of  Dart- 
mouth  College.     Occum  was  the  first  Indian  preacher  who 

*  Samson  Occum»  whom  Lady  Huntingdon  considered  one  of  the  most  inter- 
esting and  extraordinary  characters  of  her  time,  was  bom  at  Mohegan,  near 
Norwich,  Connecticut,  about  the  year  1723.  His  parents,  like  other  Indians, 
led  a  wandering  life,  depending  chiefly  upon  hunting  and  fishing  for  subsistence. 
Not  one  then  cultivated  the  land,  and  all  dwelt  m  wigwams.  None  of  them 
could  read.  During  the  religious  excitement  in  America,  about  the  year  1740, 
Mr.  Whitefield,  Mr.  Gilbert  Tennant,  and  several  other  ministers,  visited  these 
Mohegan  Indians,  after  which  many  of  them  used  to  repair  to  the  neighbouring 
churches.  Occum,  at  this  period,  became  the  subject  of  religious  impressions, 
and  was  soon  desirous  of  becoming  the  teacher  of  his  tribe.  In  a  year  or  two 
he  learned  to  read  the  Bible.  At  the  age  of  nineteen  he  went  to  the  Indian 
school  of  Dr.  Wheeloch,  of  Lebanon,  and  remained  with  him  four  years. 
He  afterwards  kept  a  school  amongst  the  Indians  for  ten  or  eleven  years ;  and 
was  eventually  ordained  by  the  Suffolk  Presbytery,  in  1759,  after  which  he 
became  very  zealous  in  preaching  mnongst  t)i^  scattered  remnai^ts  of  the  Mo» 
began  Indifuis,  , 


412  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

visited  £ng1and,  and,  having  brought  letters  of  introduction  to 
Lady  Huntingdon,  was  soon  received  in  all  the  religious  circles 
in  London.  He  preached  several  times  for  Mr.  Whitefield  at 
the  Tabernacle,  and  at  Tottenham-court  chapel,  which  were 
filled  in  every  part  by  thronged  and  attentive  auditories.  During 
his  stay  in  England  he  preached  in  various  parts  of  the  king- 
dom between  three  and  four  hundred  sermons.  The  money 
which  he  collected  for  the  Indian  school  was  put  into  the  hands 
of  trustees  in  England,  of  whom  the  Earl  of  Dartmouth  was 
the  principal. 

During  his  stay  in  England  he  was  sensibly  affected  by  the 
kindness  of  Lady  Huntingdon,  who  not  only  hospitably  enter- 
tained him  at  her  house,  but  likewise  introducea  him  to  the 
notice  of  several  pious  persons  amongst  the  nobility,  both  in 
England  and  Scotland.* 

Lady  Huntingdon  appears  to  have  been  much  interested  about 
the  Mohegan  Indians,  from  accounts  related  to  her  by  Occum: — 

'*  Ere  long  (says  her  Ladyship)  I  trust  the  Lord  will  make  his  way 
plain  through  all  that  country,  and  under  a  preached  Gospel  these 
several  tribes  may  become  one  fold  under  the  spiritual  guidance  of  the 
Great  Shepherd  and  Bishop  of  souls.  Occum  has  been  the  instrument 
of  great  good  to  many  of  his  tribe — many  of  whom  have  renounced  their 
idolatry,  and  worshipped  Him  who  died  upon  the  cross.  I  hope  yet 
to  have  it  in  my  power^  if  the  Lord  should  see  fit  to  continue  me  in 
his  service,  to  extend  some  aid  to  this  interesting  people." 

There  were  other  native  preachers  scarcely  less  worthy  of 
remembrance  than  Occum,  though  not  so  intimately  connected 
with  our  subject.  One  of  these,  Joseph  Johnson,  was  born  at 
Mohegan,  about  1750.  He  was  educated  at  Dr.  Wheeloch's 
school  at  Lebanon,  and  was  afterwards  licensed  to  preach  among 

*  After  his  return  to  America,  he  sometimes  resided  at  Mohegan,  and  was 
often  employed  in  missionary  labours  among  distant  Indians.  In  the  latter 
years  of  his  life  he  resided  at  New  Stockbridge,  near  Brotherton,  where  he  bad 
collected  a  numerous  congregation  of  the  Mohegan  root.  He  died  in  July, 
1 792.  An  excellent  portrait  of  him  was  given  in  one  of  the  early  volumes  of  the 
Evangelical  Magazine.  He  published  a  sermon  preached  at  the  execution  of  an 
Indian  in  1772.  His  sister,  who  was  regarded  as  a  pious  woman,  died  at  Mo- 
hegan, in  June,  1890,  aged  97.  Samson  Occum  and  his  sister  were  descended, 
by  their  mother,  from  Uncas,  chief  of  the  Mohegans.  The  family  have 
declined  in  power  with  the  decay  of  the  tribe.  Isaiah  Uncas  attended  Dr. 
Wheeloch's  school.  About  the  year  1800  Noah  and  John  Uncas  were  living : 
but  the  name  is  now  extinct  at  Mohegan.  The  royal  burial  ground  is  not  at 
Mohegan,  but  at  Norwich  city,  a  short  distance  from  the  falls  of  the  Yantic. 
A  few  months  after  the  death  of  Cecum's  sister  a  Sunday  School  was  opened 
at  her  house,  where  three  or  four  generations  of  her  descendants  lived ;  and 
this  commencement  of  benevolent  efforts  for  the  remnant  of  a  once  powerful 
tribe  has  led  to  the  erection  of  a  commodious  place  of  worship,  and  tue  estab- 
lishment of  A  teacher  among  these  Indians. 


SELINA,  COUKTISS  OF  HtnTTINODOK.  418 

the  Six  Nations  of  Indians.  It  was  there  that,  in  1776,  he  re- 
ceived a  letter  from  General  Washington,  dated  at  Cambridge, 
February  20,  saying — 

"  Tell  them  that  we  don't  want  them  to  take  up  the  hatchet  for  us, 
except  they  choose  it ;  we  only  desire  that  they  will  not  fight  against 
us.  We  want  that  the  chain  of  friendship  should  always  remain  bright 
between  our  friends  of  the  Six  Nations  and  us.  We  recommend  you 
to  them^  and  hope,  by  your  spreading  the  truths  of  the  Gospel  among 
them,  it  will  keep  the  chain  bright.** 

The  Rev.  James  Fitch,  minister  of  Norwich,  was  well  ac- 
quainted with  the  Mohegan  language,  and  preached  the  Gospel 
of  salvation  to  that  once  powerful  tribe  for  many  years.  He 
even  gave  some  of  his  own  lands  to  induce  them  to  renounce 
their  savage  manner  of  living.  The  descendants  of  those  Indians 
at  Mohegan,  for  whose  benefit  he  toiled  more  than  forty  years, 
have  recently  had  a  chapel  built  for  them,  by  the  liberality  of 
the  citizens  of  Norwich.* 

From  these  instances  it  will  be  seen  that  the  school  at  Leba- 
non has  been  extensively  usefuF  amon^  the  Indians,  for  whose 
use  it  was  established.  Lady  Huntingdon  contributed  richly  to 
this  institution,  and  Mr.  Whitefield  made  frequent  collections 
for  it.  Dr.  Wheeloch  died  April  24,  1779,  aged  sixty-eighth 
His  son,  Lieutenant-Colonel  Wheeloch,  became  President  of 
Dartmouth  College  on  the  death  of  his  father.  In  1783  the 
trustees  resolved  to  send  him  to  England  to  promote  the  interests 
of  the  College.  With  letters  from  General  Washington  to  Lady 
Huntingdon,  and  from  Governors  Trumbull  and  Livingston  to 
several  persons  of  influence,  he  arrived  in  England,  and  having 

i)rocured  considerable  donations  for  the  College,  !in  money, 
>ooks,  &c,  returned  to  America,  [but  was  shipwrecked  on  the 
bar  off  the  point  of  Cape  Cod,  losing  his  strong  box,  containing 
all  his  money  and  papers.     He  died  in  1817. 

One  of  the  persons  who  took  interest  in  the  Indian  preachers 
was  Dr.  Haweis,  who  was  at  this  moment  placed  in  a  somewhat 
awkward  predicament.  Mr.  Kimpton,  who  had  held  the  living 
of  Aldwincle,  in  Northamptonshire,  for  several  "years,  had  by 
some  very  strange  and  imprudent  conduct  fallen  into  difficulties, 

'  *  "  There  are  less  than  a  hundred  Mohe^^s  (savs  a  late  American  writer), 
including  those  of  mixed  blood,  now  remaining.  The  French  and  revolutionary 
wars,  and,  above  all,  the  use  of  spirituous  liquors,  have  nearly  exterminated 
the  tribe.  However,  there  is  now  reason  to  hope  for  amendment.  They 
retain  of  their  large  territory  2,700  acres  of  good  Iwid,  and  have  several  houses, 
which  they  rent  to  white  men.  They  have  now  schools  and  a  preacher.  If 
they  renounce  strong  drink,  and  cultivate  their  remaining  land  diligently,  and 
especially  if  the  power  of  religion  should  ever  be  felt  among  them,  Uiey  will 
become  a  respectable  aod  happy  community." 


414  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

and  became  a  prisoner  in  the  King's  Bench.  A  long  absence 
from  his  parish  could  not  be  dispensed  with  by  his  superior, 
and  as  he  was  unable  to  return  to  Aldwincle,  the  living  was  in 
danger  of  lapsing  to  the  Bishop  of  the  Diocese.  It  therefore 
became  necessary  for  Mr.  Kimpton  either  to  sell  the  advowson, 
or  obtain  the  Bishop's  leave  for  some  clergyman  to  hold  it  for 
a  limited  time.  Dr.  Haweis  not  having  any  preferment  from 
the  time  he  had  been  driven  from  his  cure  at  Oxford,*  was  re- 
commended to  Mr.  Kimpton  by  Mr.  Madan,  who  had  been 
introduced  to  him  by  the  Rev.  Samuel  Brewer ;  and  as  the 
Bishop's  leave  could  not  be  obtained  for  any  person  to  hold  the 
livinff  for  a  limited  time,  he  presented  it  to  Dr.  Haweis.  The 
whole  transaction  was  concluded  with  Mr.  Madan  and  Dr. 
Haweis  by  Mr.  Kimpton,  when  no  other  person  was  present. 
Mr.  Madan  and  Dr.  Haweis,  no  doubt,  acted  in  this  business  as 
upright  and  conscientious  men,  but  in  the  eyes  of  those  equally 
excellent.  Lady  Huntingdon,  Mr.  Whitefield,  and  Mr.  Thornton, 
their  conduct  appeared  less  pure.-)* 

•  We  have  already  adverted  to  the  expulsion  of  Mr.  Haweis  from  Oxford, 
and  we  ought  now  to  state  that  it  was  through  the  abused  authority  of  Hume, 
Bishop  of  that  See,  in  whose  eyes  it  was  a  trime  to  attract  a  great  auditory, 
and  be  blessed  in  the  conversion  of  many.  His  Grace  of  Canterbury  (  Seeker), 
of  whom  Mr.  Haweis  begged  a  fair  investigation  of  his  case,  offering  for  in- 
spection three  hundred  of  his  sermons,  and  courting  inquiry  into  his  life  and 
actions,  coldly  said,—.**  Sir,  whether  you  gave  the  offence,  or  thm  took  it,  I  shall 
not  take  it  upon  myself  to  determine."  In  this  way  was  Mr.  mweis  deprived 
of  his  curacy  without  redress  ;  yet  he  had  influence,  and  was  of  a  good  lamily, 
long  resident  in  Cornwall,  and  well  known  as  Haweis  of  St.  Coose.  His 
mother.  Miss  Bridgeman  Willyams,  was  the  only  daughter  of  John  'Willyams, 
Esq.,  of  Carmanton,  by  the  youngest  daughter  and  co-heir  of  Colonel  Hum- 
phrey Nov,  whose  father  was  attorney-general  to  Charles  I.  Her  mother  was 
a  sister  of  the  last  Baron  Sandys,  of  the  Vine,  on  whose  death,  without  issue, 
the  title  fell  into  abe3rance  among  his  sisters.  Mr.  Willyams,  (the  father  of 
Mrs.  Haweis),  of  St  Coose,  was  conspicuous  for  his  active  and  zealous  adher- 
ence to  the  Stuarts,  and  suffered  much  persecution  for  his  attachment  to  that 
unfortunate  House.  He  was  deprived,  during  the  reign  of  William  and  Mary, 
of  his  commission  of  the  peace,  but  was  restored  soon  after  the  accession  of 
Anne.  When  the  old  mansion  was  taken  down,  some  ninety  years  ago,  a  fine 
picture  of  James  H.  was  found  curiously  concealed  in  the  roof.  This  valuable 
Jacobite  relic  is  now  at  Carmanton. 

Hester,  the  eldest  sister  of  the  Lord  Sandys  above  referred  to,  was  grand- 
daughter  and  heiress  of  Lady  Sandys,  daughter  of  Edmund  Bry'dges,  second 
Lora  Chandos.  She  was  the  great  grandmother  of  Dr.  Haweis,  and  her  direct 
descendant  is  Davies  Giddy, 'Esq.,  (now  Davies  Gilbert,  F.R.S.)  late  M.P. 
for  Bodmin,  who  is  co-heir' to  the  Barony  of  Sandys,  of  the  \^ne,  in  Hamp- 
shire. 

John  Oliver  Willyams,  a  cousin  of  Dr.  Haweis,  married  Charlotte,  daughter 
of  Chauncey  Townsend,  Esq.,  M.P.  for  London,  sister  to  Mrs.  Biddulph,  whose 
son,  Mr.  Biddulph,  is  minister  of  St  James's,  Bristol.  Anothef  of  his  cousins 
became  the  wife  of  Lord  James  O'Brien,  brother  to  the  Marquis  of  Thomond. 
She  died  at  Clifton,  of  consumption,  leaving  no  child. 

f  However  severe  might  be  her  Ladyship's  opinion  of  this  transaction  at  the 
moment,  sh«  had  always  entertaiiMd  a  high  opinion  of  the  piety  and  moral 


SILINA,  0OUNTE6ft  Of  JOITKtlNGDON.  415 

Some  months  after  Mr.  Kimpton  had  sigped  the  presentation^ 
a  gentleman  made  him  an  offer  of  one  thousand  guineas  for  the 
advowson,  whereupon  he  immediately  made  an  application  to 
Dr.  Haweis,  intimating  his  hopes  of  a  resignation,  or  at  least 
of  having  a  compensation  in  money.  However,  as  no  promises, 
or  even  so  much  as  a  hint  of  a  consideration,  had  been  made  at 
the  time  when  Dr.  Haweis  was  presented  to  the  living,  that  gen- 
tleman and  Mr.  Madan  peremptorily  refused  either  resi^ation 
or  compensation.  The  distress  which  this  refusal  brought  upon 
Mr.  Kimpton  and  his  family  was  almost  beyond  parallel  ;,Mr. 
Kimpton  himself  being  still  a  prisoner  in  the  King's  Bench,  his 
son  driven  out  of  his  mind,  and  the  rest  of  his  family  nearly 
starving. 

This  affair  soon  became  very  public,  and  the  foulest  aspersions 
were  thrown  on  the  characters  of  Mr.  Madan  and  Dr.  Haweis 
by  Mr.  Kimpton  and  his  friends.  On  the  part  of  Dr.  Haweis, 
it  was  contended  that  Mr.  Kimpton  presented  him  to  the  living 
without  any  pecuniary  consideration  whatever,  either  at  the  time 
of  his  acceptance  of  it,  or  the  least  promise  or  engagement  for 
any  future  recompense.  Mr.  Kiihpton  and  his  friends  did  not 
deny  this ;  but  said  it  must  be  presumed  that  when  the  patron 
first  waited  upon  Mr.  Madan  for  his  advice  in  the  unfortunate 
situation  he  was  then  in,  that  he  told  him  his  case,  and  that  Mr. 
Madan  must  have  knoion  what  he  wanted  ;  and  though  no  pro- 
mises, or  even  so  much  as  a  hint  of  a  consideration,  were  made 
at  the  time  the  presentation  was  signed,  yet  Dr.  Haweis  must 
have  known  that  Mr.  Kimpton  wholly  relied  on  his  honour,  and 
could  not  think  that  he  would  be  willing  to  give  his  living  away 
absolutely  to  a  man  he  never  saw  before,  and  to  one  who  was 
likely  to  enjoy  it  a  great  number  of  years,  when  he  might  have 
founci  a  person  of  more  than  twice  the  age  of  Dr.  Haweis  to 
have  given  it  to. 

Mr.  Madan  sought  the  advice  of  the  first  legal  authorities^ 
and  having  himself  been  an  able  practitioner  at  the  bar,  felt  con- 
fident that  he  had  acted  in  the  most  conscientious  and  honour- 
able manner  by  Mr.  Kimpton.  Lord  Apsley,  afterwards  Lord 
Bathurst,  then  Lord  High  Chancellor  of  England,  to  whom  Mr. 
Madan  was  chaplain,  decided  in  his  favour,  as  did  also  several 
persons  conversant  with  ecclesiastical  law.  The  obloquy  and 
reproach  to  which  Mr.  Madan  was  exposed,  and  the  base  attacks 
made  upon  his  character  for  the  part  which  he  took  in  this  un- 
happy affair,  obliged  him  to  publish  a  narrative  of  the  whole 

worth  of  Mr.  Haweis :  he  becane  one  of  her  preachers,  then  her  chaplain,  and 
he  was  appointed  in  her  will  one  of  the  chief  managers  pf  her  cbapek. 


416  THE   LIFE   AND  TIMES   OF 

transaction,  in  which  he  accuses  Mr.  Kimpton  of  stating  what  was 
&lse,  aud  of  having  acted  a  very  close  and  designing  part  in  not 
declaring  his  real  sentiments.  This  narrative  was  also  designed 
to  answer  the  account  which  Mr.  Kimpton  had  published  a 
short  time  before.* 

Matters  were  in  this  state  when  Lady  Huntingdon  arrived  in 
London.  After  much  consultation  with  Mr.  Whitefield,  Mr. 
Thornton  and  others,  the  purchase  of  the  advowson  by  her 
Ladyship  was  considered  the  best  means  to  deliver  the  Christian 
cause  from  that  obloquy  and  reproach  which  was  so  abundantly 
heaped  upon  it  through  this  anair,  and  help  out  of  prison  and 
debt  the  miserable  sufferers  by  it,  as  well  as  at  the  same  time  to 
make  away  for  Mr.  Madan  and  Dr.  Haweis  to  stand  on  ground 
that  might  in  the  sight  of  all  good  and  reasonable  men  become 
truly  christian  and  honourable.  On  the  first  of  March  Lady 
Huntingdon  sent  by  Mr.  Whitefield  a  draft  for  one  thousand 
pounds  to  Mr.  Thornton,  and  commissioned  him,  Mr.  White- 
field,  Mr.  West,  and  Mr.  Brewer,  to  purchase  the  perpetual 
advowson  of  Aldwincle,  and  deliver  Mr.  Kimpton  and  his  family 
out  of  their  difficulties  and  distress.  By  her  Ladyship's  desire, 
an  advertisement  was  inserted  in  the  public  papers,  directing  all 
his  creditors  to  apply  to  Mr.  Thornton  to  receive  their  respec- 
tive demands. 

The  following  is  a  copy  of  her  Ladyship's  letter  to  Mr. 
Thornton : — 

«« March  1st,  1768. 

"  Dear  Sir, — In  consequence  of  the  visit  you  had  on  Saturday,  and 
your  approbation  of  what  appeared  most  right  to  me,  I  have  one  favonr 
to  ask  from  your  kind  aud  christian  influence.     The  natural  effects  to 

*  The  publication  of  these  narratives  produced  two  pamphlets  from  Mr. 
Brewer — the  first  entitled,  "  An  exact  copy  of  an  Epistolary  Correspondence 
between  the  Rev.  Mr.  Madan  and  the  Rev.  Samuel  Brewer,  concerning  the 
living  of  Aldwincle ;  before  the  publication  of  either  Mr.  Kimpton's  or  Mr. 
Madan^s  narratives ;  with  a  design  and  desire  of  gratifying  the  public,  answer- 
able to  their  repeated  demands  on  that  unpleasant  subject."  The  second  was 
published  soon  after,  and  entitled,  "  A  Supplement ;  or,  the  second  part  of  an 
Epistolary  Correspondence  relative  to  the  living  of  Aldwincle;  containing  seve- 
ral important  letters,  now  forced  to  be  made  public  to  vindicate  injured  cha- 
racter, and  to  undeceive  the  friends  of  religion."  From  which  publications  it 
appears  that  Mr.  Brewer  thought  with  Mr.  Kimpton  on  the  subject.  Captain 
Alexander  Clunie,  a  hearer  of  Mr.  Brewer's,  ana  his  friend  Mr.  West,  exerted 
themselves  with  great  zeal  to  prevent  thcFC  contradictory  publications,  and  to 
reconcile  Mr.  Madan  and  Mr.  Brewer  without  either  appearing  in  print.  "  Mr. 
Madan  (says  Captain  Clunie)  told  me  he  did  not  mind  £1,000  if  Kimpton 


Madan's  brother,  William  Hale,  Esq.,  of  Kingswald,  the  candidate  for  Hertford, 
advised  a  prosecution. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OP  HUNTIKODON.  417 

Mr.  Kimpton,  on  being  made  easy,  may  flow  in  a  degree  of  gratitude  to 
me  that  would  exceedingly  hurt  me  under  any  form  whatever,  either 
from  him  or  his  friends/  I  wish  extremely  it  may  appear,  as  it  faith- 
fully is,  unconnected  with  Mr.  Madan,  and  in  such  a  way  also  as  may 
silence  those  evil  effects  of  his  conduct ;  but  with  no  spirit  even  to  him 
that  had  not  the  most  simple  and  christian  meaning  to  all,  and  this  can 
only  be  done  by  that  coolness  and  indifference  tliat  belong  to  every 
common  just  action  in  life.  You  would, 'flierefore,  liighly  oblige  me  to 
have  in  view  for  me  the  suppression  of  anv  notices  on  this  occasion. 
Nothing  could  so  grieve  me.  My  heart  feels  too  much  ashamed  before 
Him  who  sees  it  to  receive  any  approbation  from  man ;  may  he  forgive 
mv  best  meanings  when  mixed  with  such  imperfect  actions  as  I  feel 
all  mine  to  be.  Your  kind  assistance  in  this  will  lay  a  perpetual 
obligation  on  her  who  most  highly  esteems  you,  and  on  all  occasions 
acknowledges  herself,  dear  Sir,  your  obliged  and  faithful  bumble 
servant, 

"  S.  Huntingdon. 

"  P.  S.    I  send  the  note  for  1,000/.  by  Mr.  Whitefield." 

To  this  memorable  letter  Mr.  Thornton  sent  the  following 
answer : — 

"  Madam, — I  have  received,  by  the  Rev.  Mr.  Whitefield,  your  Lady- 
ship's favour  of  a  drafl  on  Messrs.  Boldero  and  Co.,  for  a  thousand 
pounds ;  and  it  shall  be  my  endeavour  to  approve  myself  obedient  to 
vour  commands  in  all  respects.  And  I  cannot  but  admire  the  true 
Christian  manner  in  which  you  are  pleased  to  study  to  act,  with  a  sin- 
gle eye  to  the  honour  and  glory  of  our  dear  Lord  and  Master,  in  this 
great  good  work.  I  trust  he  will  own  this  and  all  your  Ladyship's 
labours  of  love,  and  shine  upon  you  more  and  more,  till  be  receives 
you  where  we  shall  be  everlastingly  employed  in  praise.  T  nm,  with 
the' most  sincere  regard,  your  Ladyship  most  obedient  humble  servant, 

"John  Thornton." 

Lord  Dartmouth  having  likewise  taken  an  active  part  in  this 
unhappy  affair,  and  having  intimated  his  anxiety  that  the  cha- 
racters of  Mr.  Madan  and  Dr.  Haweis  should  not  suffer  through 
her  Ladyship's  kind  and  generous  intentions,  she  wrote  to 
his  Lordship  the  same  day  on  which  she  compnissioned  Mr. 
Thornton  to  purchase  the  advowson,  informing  him  of  what 
she  had  done. 

"March  1st,  1768. 

"  My  Lord, — I  have  this  day  sent  by  the  hands  of  Mr.  Whitefield, 
to  Mr.  Thornton,  a  note  for  a  thousand  pounds,  to  pay  (as  by  agree- 
ment with  Mr.  Kimpton)  for  the  perpetual  advowson  of  Aldwincle 
Hving,  and  which  was  the  full  supposed  value  before  Mr.  Haweis  had 
possession  of  it.  As  your  Lordship  must  have  known  the  want  of  con- 
currence my  heart  has  ever  had  in  this  whole  afiair,  so  I  did  think 
your  Lordship  had  a  right  to  the  earliest  and  fullest  information  of  this 


418  THE  LIFB  AND  TIMES  OF 

transaction,  and  also  of  what  appearad  to  me  the  one  host  means  td 
deliver  from  reproach,  on  this  account,  the  Christian  cause,  and  help 
out  of  prison  and  debt  the  miserable  sufferers  by  it,  as  well  as  at  the 
same  time  to  make  a  way  for  Mr.  Madan  and  Mr.  Haweis  to  stand  on 
ground  that  might  in  the  sight  of  all  good  and  reasonable  men^  become 
truly  Christian  and  honourable.  Your  Lordship,  in  wishing  the  pro- 
tection of  the  character  of  those  you  regard,  has  seen  tliis  matter  in  a 
light  tender,  friendly,  and  charitable  ;  but  this  medium  is  not  that 
through  which  all  can  see  in  it  Uiat  exactness  requisite  to  actions  that 
appear  of  such  consequence  to  the  clearing  up  their  fidelity  when  less 
known.  A  thousand  therefore  to  one,  ois  well  in  the  Christian  as  ra- 
tional world,  must  and  do  see  it  in  another ;  these  doubtless  claim  that 
consideration  as  due  to  them  which  every  Christian  heart  would  by 
concession  willingly  make,  whenever  consciously  mistaken,  else  woe 
to  the  world  indeed  because  of  offences,  which  would  yet  remain  the 
hindrance  of  their  peace,  by  the  false  impressions  received  against  the 
power  and  purity  which,  through  mistaken  conduct,  must  continue  so 
obscured.  As  to  any  reserves  pride  may  make  on  these  subjects,  may 
the  Lord  keep  me,  your  Lordship,  and  all  who  name  the  name  of  Christ 
from  them.  Should  not  these  measures  meet  with  your  Lordship's  ap- 
probation, my  satisfaction  will  receive  that  difference  only.  As  far  as  I 
know,  my  eye  has  been  single  to  these  three  points  I  jhave  mentioned, 
and  that  to  Him  whose  I  am,  and  from  whose  compassion  I  look  for 
pity  to  all  my  ignorance  and  weakness,  in  want  of  flirther  abilities  in 
this  matter,  as  well  as  for  evBry  other  purpose  to  his  glory,  and  in  all 
situations,  remain,  my  Lord,  your  Lordship's  obliged  and  faithful  hum- 
ble servant 

"  S.  Huntingdon." 

It  now  remained  for  Lad^  Huntingdon  to  conclude  this  un- 
fortunate transaction,  by  writing  to  Mr.  Madan,  with  a  full  dis- 
closure of  her  sentiments,  imforming  him  of  the  step  which  she 
thought  it  most  prudent  to  take.  We  transcribe  the  letter,  and 
Mr.  Madan's  reply,  from  a  manuscript  in  her  Ladyship's  hand- 
writing : — 

'*  London,  March  1st,  1 768. 
**  Rev.  Sir, — Some  time  in  last  April  was  a  year,  in  my  lodgings  at 
Chelsea,  you  were  so  good  as  to  inform  me  of  this  unhappy  affair  of 
Aldwincle.  On  having  your  representation  read  over,  my  sentiments 
on  that  point  I  most  freely  gave,  and  thought,  as  the  matter  stood,  I 
could  not  see  how  ^fr.  Haweis,  as  an  honest  man,  could  continue  to 
keep  that  living.  The  objection  then  made  against  giving  it  up  was 
the  charge  of  simony,  which  might  in  Uiot  case  be  brought.  To  avoid 
even  the  suspicion  of  this  it  instantly  occurred  to  my  mind  that  you  and 
Mr.  Haweis  immediately  taking  Mr.  Kimpton  to  the  bishop,  and 
proving  yourselves  free  from  the  charge  that  was  or  might  be  brought 
against  you,  necessarily  obliged  him  (the  bishop)  either  to  allow  the 
resignation  of  the  livinff  in  testimony  of  your  innocence,  or  acquit  your 
ohanuiters  in  keeping  it  ff  he  refuted  to  reoerre  it.    From  the  inferior 


SELINAi  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  4ld 

objection  of  the  SCO/,  laid  out  on  the  house  by  Mr.  Haweis  ^and  which 
was- afterwards  offered  to  be  paid  by  a  friend  on  a  resignation  of  thd 
living),  it  did  not  then  seem  expedient  to  you  that  the  living  should  be 
given  up.  I  then  had  no  more  to  say,  and  became  satisfied  to  share  in 
the  certain  shame  and  reproach  so  many  of  God's  people  have  had  on  this 
occasion  ;  but  from  the  conviction  of  my  mind  I  could  take  up  no  wea- 
pons of  defence  on  this  subject.  It  remained  from  your  own  testimony 
to  me  just  the  same  under  every  various  and  future  appearance  to  the 
world.  Since  I  last  came  to  town  I  have  found  a  severe  scourge  indeed 
upon  the  Church  of  God,  and  which  by  going  on  must  end  in  every  evil 
word  and  work.  To  deliver,  therefore,  a  miserable  family,  and  to  stop 
all  further  grief  to  God's  people,  who  are  alike  in  all  parts  affecied  by 
this  blow,  I  had  but  one  thing  that  suggested  itself  to  me  adequate  to 
its  relief,  and  whereby  these  best  motives  might  be  explained.  In 
order  to  do  this  the  most  effectually  in  my  power,  I  have  commissioned 
Mr.  Thornton,  Mr.  Whitefield,  Mr.  West,  and  Mr.  Brewer  (by  this  day 
giving  them  a  note  for  1,000/.)  to  purchase  the  advowson  of  Aldwincle, 
and  they  are  now  gone  to  see  Mr.  Kimpton  released  from  prison,  restored 
to  his  family,  and  the  debts  relative  to  the  advowson,  and  all  his  other 
debts,  punctually  discharged.  Thus  far  I  have  gone,  but  alas  1  I  can 
go  no  farther.  It  remains  now  only  for  me  to  pray  to  God  to  enable 
both  you  and  Mr.  Haweis  to  make  every  proper  and  public  concession* 
to  the  world  for  any  conscious  infirmity,  wealcness,  temptation,  or  mis- 
taken step  throughout  this  transaction.  May  you  stand  by  the  Cross  of 
Christ  in  this  humbling  and  trying  instance.  It  will  be  sufficient  to 
support  and  carry  you  victoriously  throBgh  all,  and  bring  back  the  love^ 
the  just  love  and  honour  due  to  you  from  the  Church  of  Gk>d,  and  in 
the  end  can  alone  preserve  that  character,  whose  defence  from  man 
has  wanted  that  success  which  God  only  can  give.  Should  I  ever 
live  to  see  this  happy  day  of  peace  proclaimed,  you  will  then  find  me 
that  faithful  and  affectionate  Aiend  1  desire  to  be  found  by  you  both. 
Till  then,  I  can  only  say,  I  remain  your  servant  for  Christ's  aake, 

*'  S.  Huntingdon." 

The  concession,  drawn  up  by  Lady  Huntingdon,  which  she 

•  This  letter  enclosed  a  copy  of  an  advertisement,  which  her  Ladyship 
wished  Messrs.  Madan  and  Haweis  to  sign  and  insert  in  the  papers  of  the  day. 
The  following  is  a  copy.  It  was  drawn  up  by  the  Countess  herself: — **  As  the 
public  have  received  much  offence  by  our  mutual  transactions  in  the  affair  of 
the  living  of  Aldwincle,  we  take  this  method  of  informing  them  that  wo 
are  assured  that  Mr.  Kimpton  is  honourably  satisfied  by  the  purchaae  of  the 
advowson,  unknown  to  us  or  our  friends,  and  an  end  put  to  any  further  alter, 
cation  on  this  subject,  so  we  are  desirous  of  saving  that  anything  which  might 
appear  in  our  conduct  contrary  to  the  spirit  ot  Christianity,  through  the  weak- 
ness and  various  temptations  attending  this  severe  attack  upon  the  honour  and 
honesty  belonging  to  Christian  ministers,  we  think  ourselves  bound,  from  the 
grief  occasioned  to  the  religious  world  through  our  mistakes,  or  the  willing 
prejudices  of  others  against  our  characters,  as  ministers  of  Christ,  to  give  everv 
future  proof  which  (notwithstanding  so  many  unfortunate  and  various  difficul- 
ties) shedl  in  the  issue  convince  even  our  worst  enemies  we  have  no  meaning 
but  to  be  found  faithful  messengers  of  peace,  by  the  dispensation  of  that 
Gospel  which  renders  this  lubmission  the  consistent  as  well  as  genuine  fruits 
of  it." 


420  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

Eroposed  in  the  above  letter  to  be  signed  by  Mr.  Madan  and 
)r.  Haweis,  and  circulated  in  the  public  prints  never  obtained 
any  publicity. 

The  following  is  Mr.  Madan's  reply,  dated  March  3, 1 768 : — 

^  Madam, — When  I  had  the  honoar  of  your  Ladirship's  letter 
I  was  confined  to  my  bed^  and  therefore  could  not  answer  it  by  your 
senraDt.  I  ;am  at  present  very  uofit  for  writing  or  business  of  any 
tort;  but  lest  my  longer  silence  should  be  misconstrued  into  dis- 
respect, I  trouble  your  Ladyship  with  the  following  answer. 

^  Your  Ladyship  acquaints  me  that  you  have  sent  a  thousand  pounds 
for  the  purchase  of  the  advowson  of  Aldwincle.  This  step  your  Lady- 
ship may  have  taken  with  the  best  intentions ;  but,  under  all  the  cir- 
cumstances of  the  case,  it  is  very  evident  to  me  that  the  necessary 
consequence  of  it  will  be  an  increase  of  reproach  and  injury  to  my 
friend  Mr.  Haweis's  character  and  my  own ;  and  therefore  I  hope  your 
Ladyship  will  do  us  the  justice,  upon  all  occasions,  to  declare  tnat  this 
step  has  been  taken  without  our  knowledge,  privity,  consent,  or 
approbation. 

^*  As  to  the  part  which  Mr.  Haweis  and  I  have  taken,  it  has  been,  all 
things  considered,  a  very  disagreeable  one  for  us ;  and  nothing  could 
bftve  supported  us  under  the  oppression  and  persecution  we  have  met 
with,  but  a  consciousness  of  our  having  acted  uprightly  and  sincerely. 
This  has  enabled  us  to  stem  the  torrent  of  abuse  which  hath  been 
poured  upon  us  from  all  quarters,  and  I  trust  wtH  enable  us  to  assert 
our  integrity  as  long  as  we  live. 

*^  As  to  the  concessions  your  Ladyship  is  pleased  to  mention,  as  wc 
do  not  conceive  we  have  any  to  make,  so  we  must  assure  you  that 
none  can  ever  be  made,  hy  tis  1  mean,  for  I  by  no  means  despair  that 
some  may  appear  on  the  other  side  of  the  question,  when  conscience 
shall  do  its  office  with  respect  to  the  wrongs  wc  have  sustained,  and 
our  just  dealing  shall  be  as  the  noon-day  sun. 

"  When  evil  is  spoken  of  us  fahdy^  we  are  commanded  to  rejoice  ; 
when  any  can  be  said  truly ^  I  shall  hope  that  you  ^^dll  find  none  more 
ready  to  acknowledge  and  lament  it  than  dear  Mr.  Haweis,  and, 

"  Madam,  your  Ladyship's  humble  servant, 

"Martin  Madan." 

The  preaching  of  Mr.  Haweis,  which  Mr.  Newton  (one  of  the 
ministers  who  approved  his  conduct  and  that  of  Mr.  Madan) 
said,  had  like  the  report  of  cannon  sounded  through  the  country, 
attracted  vast  congregations  to  Aldwincle  church.*     Mr.  Ro- 

^  Among  his  converts  was  an  old  innkeeper,  who  having  been  a  good  cus- 
tomer to  bis  own  barrel,  had  carbuncled  his  nose  into  the  sign  of  bis  calling. 
He  was  from  nature  and  interest  averse  to  the  Methodists,  ana  could  not  see 
what  all  the  world,  in  his  part,  had  to  run  after  at  Aldwincle  church.  Being 
fond  of  music,  however,  and  hearing  that  the  singing  was  admirable,  he  con- 
trived, at  the  next  feast-day,  to  go  six  miles,  avoid  a  drinking  party,  and  squeeze 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  421 

niaine,  Mr.  Venn,  as  well  as  Mr.  Newton,  visited  him  in  his 
living.  Tiie  friendship  of  such  me  is  unec^uivocal  testimony 
to  the  piety  of  Dr.  Haweis :  but  we  do  not  mean  to  offer  any 
opinion  on  the  affair  of  Aldwincle ;  suppose  him  to  have  erred  in 
tnis,  let  the  mistakes  of  such  men  be  beacons  for  our  admonition 
and  warning,  while  their  fidelity  and  devotedness  inspire  us  with 
the  zeal  of  imitation,  and  arouse  us  to  exertion. 


CHAPTER  XXV. 

Progress  of  piety  at  Cambridge—Rowland  Hill— Oxford — St.  Edmund's  Hall— » 
The  six  students — Expulsion — Sir  Richard  Hill — Dr.  Home,  Bishop  of 
Norwich — Mr.  Godwyn — Charges  against  Lady  Huntingdon — Account  of  the 
Students,  and  the  proceedings  against  them — Letter  from  Lady  Dartmouth 
—Lady  Buchan — Letter  from   Mr.  Wesley — Cheltenham — Lord  Dartmouth 

—Letter  from  Mr.  Venn Mr.  Wells — Mr.  Trinder— Mr.  Whitefield  to  Mr, 

Mudan — Mr.   Madan  to    Mr.  Wesley Lady  Huntingdon  to  Mr.  Alderman 

Harris — Gloucester  Association— Lady  Huntingdon  to  Mr.  Brewer- 
Chapels  at  Gloucester,  Worcester,  and  Cheltenham — Lady  Huntingdon's 
Letter  concerning  them. 

At  this  period  (1767-8)  many  students  of  the  universities  were 
deeply  imbued  with  a  sense  of  the  value  and  importance  of 
religion.  The  Cambridge  band  was  headed  by  Rowland  Hill, 
whose  whole  soul  was  bent  on  promoting  the  growth  of  piety  in 
himself  and  among  his  friends,  Pentycross,  Simpson,  Robinso  n 
and  others,  who,  imbued  with  his  zeal  and  spirit,  possessed, 
perhaps,  less  fire  and  energy,  and  unflinching  boldness.  At  the 
nead  of  the  religious  youth  of  Oxford  was  Mr.  Halward,  the 
constant  correspondent  of  Mr.  Hill,  and  whose  letters  became  at 
this  period  peculiarly  interesting.     Mr.  Durbridge,  a  humble, 

himself  into  a  pew  somewhat  too  narrow  for  his  portly  person,  where  he  listened 
with  delight  to  the  hymns,  but  stopped  his  ears  to  the  prayer.  Heated  and 
fatigued,  nc  closed  his  eyes,  too,  till  a  fly  stinging  his  nose,  he  took  his  hands 
from  the  side  of  his  head  to  punish  the  intruder;  just  then  the  preacher,  in  a 
voice  that  sounded  like  thunder,  gave  out  the  text — '*  He  that  hath  ears  to  hear 
let  him  hear  !**  The  impression  was  irresistible ;  his  hand  no  longer  covered 
his  organs  of  hearing  ;  a  new  sense  was  awakened  within  ;  it  was  the  beginning 
of  days  to  him.  No  more  swearing,  no  more  drunkenness,  but  prayer  and 
hearing  occupied  his  time,  and  he  died  after  eighteen  years*  walking  with  God, 
rejoicing  in  hope,  and  blesiing  the  instrument  of  his  conversion. 
VOL.  I. — D  D 


422  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

but  pious  friend  of  Mr.  Whitefield,  had  lately  8uflered  a  trium- 
phant death,  and  at  the  house  of  his  widow,  Dr.  Stillingfleet,  Mr. 
Halward,  of  Worcester  College,  Mr.  Foster,  of  Queen's  College 
Mr.  Pugh,  of  Hertford  College,  Mr.  Gordon,  of  Magdalen,  and 
Mr.  Clark,  of  St  John's,  were  wont  to  meet  for  prayer  and 
mutual  encouragement  in  religion.  To  this  congregation  were 
added  the  celebrated  six  students  of  St.  Edmunas  Hall,  of 
whom  we  are  about  to  speak  at  more  length : — 

*'  Faithful  and  devoted  souls  (says  Lady  Huntingdon),  and  active  in 
diffusing  the  light  and  love  of  which  they  are  the  happy  recipients. 
With  some  of  them  I  have  long  been  acquainted,  and  have  heard  most 
interesting  particulars  of  their  proceedings  from  dear  Mr.  Whitefield. 
O,  let  earnest,  ardent  prayer,  ascend  from  every  gracious  soul  for  tlie 
success  of  these  young  witnesses,  whom  the  Lord  of  the  harvest  hath 
mercifully  raised  up  to  proclaim  the  Gospel  of  salvation.  The  hand  of 
the  persecutor  is  upon  some  of  them,  and  they  have  deep  waters  to 
wade  through ;  hut  amidst  every  outward  opposition,  the  litde  flock 
continues  to  augment  its  numbers.  I  expect  great  things  from  them, 
and  hope  and  pray  that  these  witnesses  will  rise  up  and  testify  to  the 
Gospel  of  the  grace  of  God  long  after  I  am  numbered  with  the  dead." 

Mr.  Halward,  in  his  letter  to  Mr.  Hill,  spoke  of  the  meeting, 
and  of  the  Excitement  thereby  created  both  m  "  town  and  gown." 

At  length  the  storm  which  had  so  long  been  gathering,  and 
which  had  already  given  a  few  warnings  of  its  violence,  burst. 
and  poured  the  full  torrent  of  its  vengeance  on  the  devoted 
heads  of  the  six  students  of  St.  Edmund's  Hall.     They  had 
been  in  the  habit  of  meeting  Dr.  Stillingfleet,  then  a  fellow  of 
Merton  College,  but  afterwards  Prebendary  of  Worcester,  a  well 
known  writer,  and  the  cherished  friend  of  Lady  Huntingdon,  at 
Mrs.  Durbridge's,  where  the  doctor  would  expound,  and  pray, 
and  invite  the  students  to  do  likewise.      Their  unusual  piety 
and  zealous  efforts,  expounding  at  private  houses  and  preaching 
in  the  neighbourhood,  had,  as  we  have  seen,  excited  the  jealousy 
of  the  Church,  and  attracted  the  ridicule  of  the  gay  townsmen. 
Mr.  Higson,  tutor  of  St.   Edmund's  Hall,  a  person  who  was 
liable  to  attacks  of  insanity,  and  who  had  been  treated  as  insane, 
first  formally  complained  to  the  principal.  Dr.  Dixon,  of  several 
students  in  the  Hall,  ^^enthusiasts,  who  talked  of  inspiration,  re- 
generation, and  drawing  nigh  to  God."     The  worthy  principal, 
who    was    thoroughly  acquainted   with    the    right   views   and 
pure  Uves  of  the  accused  students,  looked  upon  tne  tutor's  com- 
plaint as  an  evidence  of  his  reourring  insanity.  Not  so  the  Vice- 
Chancellor,  Dr.  Durrell,  to  whom  Mr.  Higson  next  applied. 
He  considered  that  the  tutor  of  St.  Edmund's  merited  by  his 
zeal  the  thanks   of  the  whole  University;  and,  fearing  that 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  423 

these  young  men,  who  already  imitated  Wesley  and  White- 
field  in  their  piety,  might,  like  them,  "  turn  the  world  upside 
down,  and  the  Church  inside  out,"  he  summoned  a  conclave, 
appointed  assessors,  and  cited  the  offending  students  before  him. 

The  conclave  consisted  of  Drs.  Durrell,  Kandolph,  Fothergill, 
Nowell,  and  the  senior  proctor,  Atterbury.  Dr.  Nowell  took 
notes,  which  were  afterwards  published  in  vindication  of  the 
Vice-Chancellor  and  his  Junta.  The  students  arraigned  were 
Benjamin  Kay,  Thomas  Jones,  Thomas  Grove,  Erasmus  Mid- 
dleton,  and  Joseph  Shipman.  Several  heads  of  houses  warmly 
espoused  the  cause  of  the  students,  especially  Dr.  Dixon,  who, 
as  Principal  of  their  Hall,  bore  direct  testimony  to  their  ad- 
mirable conduct  and  exemplary  piety,  and  defended  them  against 
Mr.  Higson's  charges,  out  oi  the  Thirty-nine  Articles  Uiem- 
selves.  His  amendment  was,  however,  overruled,  and  sentence 
of  expulsion  was  passed  against  them ;  the  Vice-Chancellor  de- 
claring that  each  of  them  deserved  expulsion,  and  adding,  "  I, 
therefore,  by  my  visitorial  power,  do  hereby  pronounoe  them 
expelled."     Such  was  the  Oxford  bull  of  1 768. 

Mr.  Whitefield  immediately  addressed  an  admirable  letter, 
written  in  his  most  forcible  manner,  to  the  Vice-Chancellor,  which 
has  been  very  frequently  printed,  but  is  now  extremely  scarce. 
Sir  Richard  Hill  wrote  a  capital  pamphlet,  entitled  Pietas 
Oxoniennsy  dedicated  to  the  Earl  of  Lichfield,  then  Chancellor 
of  the  University  of  Oxford.  Dr.  Home,  afterwards  Bishop  of 
Norwich,  very  ably  defended  the  students,  and  condemned  the 
conclave  in  a  powerful  paper ;  and  Mr.  Macgowan  and  several 
others,  severely  lashed  the  heads  of  houses  for  their  sentence. 
On  the  other  hand,  there  were  a  pamphlet  by  the  Vice- 
Chancellor,  an  answer  to  Sir  Richard  Hill  by  Dr.  Nowell, 
and  other  vindicatory  tracts  of  great  ability.  The  Rev.  Charles 
Godwyn,  one  the  Fellows  of  Baliol  College,  writing  to  Mr. 
Hutchins,  the  historian  of  Devon,  says : — 

"  A  very  odd  affair  has  happened  here.  The  Principal  of  Edmund 
Hall  has  been  indiscreet  enough  to  admit  into  his  hall,  by  the  recom^ 
mendation  of  Lady  Huntingdon^  seven  London  tradesmen,  one  a 
tapster,  another  a  barber,  &c.  They  have  little  or  no  learning,  but 
have  all  of  them  a  high  opinion  of  themselves,  as  being  ambassadors  of 
^  King  Jesus.'  One  of  them,  upon  that  title,  conferred  by  himself,  has 
been  a  preacher.  Complaint  was  made  to  the  Vice- Chancellor,  I 
believe  by  the  Bishop  of  Oxford,  and  he,  in  his  own  right,  as  Vice- 
Chancellor,  had  last  week  a  visitation  of  the  Hall.  Six  of  Uic  preaching 
tradesmen  were  found  so  void  of  learning  that  they  were  expelled,  and 
the  tutor  with  his  pupils,  not  choosing  to  live  under  such  a  principal, 
are  removing,  I  believe,  to  Christ  Church." 
j>  d2 


424  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  Of 

In  a  subsequent  letter  Mr.  Godwyn  adds  :— 

"  The  Vice-Chancellor  has  done  very  well  in  removing  from  hence 
some  '  ambassadors  from  Jesus  Christ,*  who  were  made  up  of  ignorance 
and  assurance,  and  were  likely  to  do  more  harm  than  good.  There  is 
a  short  sensible  pamphlet  published  in  defence  of  him,  relating  barely 
the  facts,  and  producing  the  reasons  upon  which  the  Vice-Chancellor 
proceeded.  It  says  just  as  much  as  is  proper,  and  nothing  more.  A 
person  among  us,  of  some  consequence,  has  shown  his  piety  to  his 
aima  mater,  by  publishing  what  he  calls  Pietas  Oxoniensis,  It  is  in 
defence  of  our  Methodists,  from  whence  you  may  judge  of  the  odd  turn 
of  the  man.  We  are  at  loss  to  find  out  who  is  the  person.  The 
Vice-Chancellor  knows.  Nothing  of  any  value  has  been  published 
against  it." 

The  expulsion  itself  was  thus  announeed  in  the  St  Jameses 
Chronicle: — 

''On  Friday  last  (March  11,  176^),  six  students  belonging  to 
Edmund  Hall  were  expelled  the  University,  after  a  hearing  of  several 
hours,  before  the  Vice-Chancellor  and  some  of  the  heads  of  houses,  ^or 
holding  Methodistical  tenets^  and  taking  upon  them  to  pray ^  ready  and 
expound  the  Scriptures,  and  singing  hymns  in  private  houses.  The 
Principal  of  the  College  (Dr.  Dixon)  defended  their  doctrines,  from  the 
Thirty-nine  Articles  of  the  Established  Church,  and  spoke  in  the 
highest  teims  of  the  piety  and  cxemplariness  of  their  lives ;  but  his 
motion  was  overruled,  and  sentence  pronounced  against  them.  One  of 
the  heads  of  houses  present  observed  that,  as  these  six  gentlemen  were 
expelled  for  having  too  much  religion,  it  would  bo  very  proper  to 
enquire  into  the  conduct  of  some  who  had  too  little,  yet  Mr.  Vice- 
Chancellor  Durrell  was  heard  to  tell  the  chief  accuser  that  the  Univer- 
sity was  much  obliged  to  him  for  his  good  work." 

We  add,  in  a  note  some  particulars  of  the  expelled  students.* 
In  the  public   journals    of   the  day,  Lady    Huntingdon    was 

•  Mr.  Jones  w<i8  originally  a  hair-dresser,  and  a  letter  was  produced  among 
the  evidence  on  this  occasion,  in  which  the  writer  stated  that  Mr.  Jones  had 
made  a  very  good  periwig  for  him,  only  two  years  before.  The  fact  was,  how- 
ever, that  ne  bad  left  tho  buKincss  at  seventeen  years  of  age,  four  years 
before  he  went  to  Collcg(».  lie  had  resided  some  time  with  Mr.  Newton,  then 
curate  of  Olney,  and  under  his  instruction  made  considerable  progress  in 
acquiring  a  kn()wledge,  grammatical  and  critical,  of  the  Greek  and  Hebrew 
Scriptures.  His  monU  character  was  unimpcached  even  by  his  accusers,  and 
the  charges  against  him  were  chiefly  that  he  had  been  brought  up  to  a  trade, 
and  had  been  guilty  of  pra)^ing,  singing  hymns,  and  expounding  the  Scriptures 
in  private  houses.  After  his  expulsion,  he  was  much  noticed  by  Lady  Hunting- 
don, was  ordained,  became  curate  of  Clifton,  near  Birmingham,  martied  the 
sister  of  Cowper's  friend,  the  Lady  Austin,  and  died  rather  suddenly  several 
years  ago. 

Mr.  Kay  was  of  respectable  family,  and  an  excellent  scholar.  He  was 
bible  clerk  at  St.  Edmund's,  and  had  an  exliibition,  paid  by  the  Ironmongers' 
Company. 

Mr.  Grove  had  been  admitted  in  1767,  and  was  twenty-one  years  of  age.  He 
was  expelled  for  barn-preaching,  a  new  crime,  of  which,  however,  there  was  uo 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  425 

accused  not  only  as  Mr.  Godwyn  accused  her,  but  of  "  seducing" 
seveml  young  men  from  their  respective  trades  and  avocations, 
and  sending  them  to  the  University,  where  they  were  maintained 
at  her  expense,  that  they  might  afterwards  "  skulk  into  orders." 
Her  Ladyship  was  at  Bath  during  the  whole  transaction,  and  she 
regarded,  not  without  anxiety,  the  arbitrary  proceedings  of  the 
heads  of  the  University  agamst  these  young  men — for  what  ? 
For  maintaining  the  fundamental  doctrine  of  the  Reformation, 
and  of  the  Church  of  England,  viz  : — Election,  perseverance, 
justification  by  faith  alone,  and  the  necessity  of  the  influence  of 
the  Holy  Spirit  to  constitute  every  one  a  child  of  God.  Doc- 
proof.  In  a  petition  to  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  he  acknowledged  that 
IS  zeal  had  led  him  into  certain  irregularities,  but  he  was  not  aware  that  they 
violated  any  statute.  The  Chancellor  consented  to  his  re-admission,  but  the 
Vice- Chancellor  and  his  assessors  refiised,  even  after  he  had  declared  his 
willingness  to  make  submission  for  irregularity. 

Mr.  Mathews  was  charged  \iith  having  been  instructed  by  Mr.  Fletcher,  a 
declared  Methodist,  of  associating  with  known  Methodists,  and  of  attending 
illicit  conventicles.  He  was  afterwards  received  into  Lady  Huntingdon's 
College,  at  Trevecca. 

Mr.  Middleton  was  accused  of  preaching  at  Chevely,  in  Berkshire,  not  being 
in  orders.  This  occurred  three  years  before  he  entered  the  University,  for  which 
'*  daring  impiety,"  as  Dr.  DurreU  called  it,  he  was  expelled  by  those  who  looked 
over  a  charge  of  blasphemy  against  Mr.  Welling,  on  the  ground  that  he  was  in 
drink  when  the  blasphemy  was  uttered.  But  Mr.  Middleton  was  further 
charged  with  having  refused  ordination  from  the  Bishop  of  Hereford,  and 
attaching  himself  to  Mr.  Haweis,  who  had  boasted  that  he  could  get  him  into 
orders.  Brasmus  Middleton  was,  perhaps,  the  most  distidguished  of  those 
persecuted  students.  He  was  supported  at  Cambridge  by  Fuller,  the  banker, 
a  Dissenter,  and  ordained  in  Ireland  by  the  Bishop  of  Down.  In  Scotland  he 
married  a  branch  of  the  ducal  familv  of  Gordon.  In  London  he  was  curate  to 
Romaine  and  Cadogan,  and  there  be  wrote  his  Biographia  EvangeUca  ;  in  his 
old  age  he  was  presented  by  the  Fuller  family  with  the  living  of  Turvey,  in 
Bedfordshire. 

The  accusations  Mr.  Shipman  had  to  sustain  were  similar,  and  equally  un- 
founded.    He  was,  after  his  expulsion,  admitted  to  the  College  of  Trevecca. 

The  morality,  then,  of  the  students  was  not  impugned.  They  were  arrau^ed 
and  expelled  because  they  met  together  at  Mrs.  Durbridge^s  to  read  and  ex- 
pound the  Scriptures,  sing  hymns,  and  pray  extempore.  This  was  construed 
into  **  attending  an  illicit  conventicle  ;  but  surely  the  words  of  the  canon,  of 
the  University  statute,  and  of  the  preamble  to  the  act  of  Parliament^  nlainly 
define  a  conventicle  to  be  a  meeting  contrary  to  the  doctrine  and  discipline  of 
the  Church  of  England,  or  dangerous  to  the  public  peace,  whereas,  the  writing 
at  Oxford  were  of  persons  whose  attachment  to  the  doctrines  of  the  Church, 
attendance  upon  her  worship,  and  subscription  to  all  her  articles  were  mani- 
fest and  undeniable.  Very  similar  were  the  charges  of  associating  with 
Stillingfleet,  Fletcher,  Haweis,  Venn,  Newton,  and  other  excellent  persons. 
But  the  chief  cause  of  the  displeasure  of  their  judges  was  the  doctrine  of  these 
pious  men.  At  that  time  their  tenets  were  considered  hostile  to  Uie  Church  to 
which  they  belonged ;  but  time  has  done  them  justice,  and  the  Church  of  Eng- 
land is  daily  adding  to  the  number  of  her  zealous  and  active  ministers  men  who 
consider  their  doctrines  not  at  variance  with  her  Liturgy  and  Articles,  and  who, 
without  any  infringement  of  her  rules,  are  preaching  salvation  through  faith 
alone,  and  whose  works  are  an  answer  to  those  who  insinuate  that  they  lay  no 
■tress  on  them  as  evidencts  of  their  belief 


426  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

trines  which  lie  at  the  very  foundation  of  Christianity,  and  have 
ever  been  esteemed  the  great  bulwark  of  Protestantism  ;  in  so 
much  that  there  is  not  reformed  Church  in  Europe  but  admits 
them  to  the  chief  place  in  her  confessions  of  faith. 

'^It  is  a  grievous  thing  (says  her  Ladyship)  to  find  men  who  have 
solemnly  subscrihed  to  the  doctiines  of  the  Reformation  acting  with 
such  inconsistent  cruelty,  t3rranny,  falsehood,  and  scurrility  towards 
those  who  conscientiously  adhere  to  the  tenets  of  our  excellent 
Church,  and  endeavour  to  propagate  her  principles.  Such  conduct,  on 
the  part  of  our  Church  rulers  and  the  heads  of  our  Universities,  is  a 
sad  blow  to  the  Church  to  which  they  profess  to  belong,  and  strengthens 
the  hands  of  our  Popish  adversaries.  Of  what  solemn  perjury  are 
those  men  guilty  who,  for  the  sake  of  filthy  lucre,  and  creeping  into 
high  places,  swear  to  the  belief  of  doctrines  and  principles  which,  in 
their  hearts,  they  disbelieve  and  detest?  How  will  the  Great  Head  of 
the  Church  be  avenged  on  such  people  as  tliese ;  and  how  he  will  re- 
ward their  fidelity  a  future  day  will  disclose  to  the  view  of  an  assembled 
world  !  O,  mv  soul,  come  not  thou  into  the  secrets  of  such  men  ! 
With  the  foul  invectives  of  common  newspapers  I  have  nothing  to  do, 
neither  am  I  accountable  for  the  impudent  falsehood  of  those  who  have 
maliciously  asserted  that  I  have  inveigled  six  ignorant  young  men  from 
their  trades  in  the  country,  and  maintained  them  at  the  University. 
All  these,  and  many  other  absurd  and  ridiculous  accusations,  insinua- 
tions, and  statements,  are  utterly  false,  and  without  any,  the  least, 
foundation  of  truth  to  support  tnem ;  but  the  Lord  God  is  witness 
between  me  and  my  accusers  in  this  matter,  and  woe  unto  them  that 
oali  good  evil,  and  evil  good ;  that  put  darkness  for  light,  and  light  for 
darkness.  Dr.  Nowell  seems  to  be  of  opinion  that  the  expulsion  of 
the  students  '  is  a  seasonable  interposition,  and  has  disappointed  the 
hopes  of  those,  who  were  desirous  of  filling  the  Church  with  tlieir 
votaries.'  Bold  assertion  oflen  supplies  the  place  of  truth  with  some 
men.  May  the  Lord  pardon  him  for  the  unjust  part  he  has  acted  in 
this  afiTair,  and  convince  him  that  his  conduct,  and  that  of  the  otlier 
members  of  the  University,  has  been  utterly  inconsistent  with  every 
sentiment  of  truth,  justice,  conscience,  religion,  humanity^  and  candour." 

We  have  dwelt  at  some  length  on  the  expulsion  of  these 
students  on  account  of  the  interest  Lady  Huntingdon  took  in 
the  afiair,  because  of  Mr.  Whitefield's  zealous  interference  in 
behalf  of  the  victims,  and  because  we  hope  and  believe  this 
Oxford  bull  will  remain  the  last  of  its  race.  Now  public 
opinion  would  expel  from  the  University  of  Christian  fellowship 
any  number  of  heads  of  houses  who  should  repeat  this  tyranny. 
That  great  tribunal  has  just  pronounced  the  sentence  of 
unqualified  condemnation  against  the  late  Popish  ^^  Oxford 
TVactsj'*  and  neither  the  Chancellor,  nor  ex-Chancellor  could 
now  obtain,  were  they  inclined  to  try,  any  mitigation  of  the 
sentence, 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINQDOK.  427 

The  Tracts  are  unprotestant  and  therefore  unpopular;  and  by 
parity  of  reasoning,  the  conduct  of  the  persecuted  students 
would  have  been  supported  by  popular  opinion,  had  it  occurred 
in  our  day,  for  their  conduct  was  eminently  Protestant.  The 
hisses  and  yells  in  which  the  raw  witlings  of  Oxford  induced 
against  the  Dissenters  at  the  installation  of  the  Duke  of  Wel- 
lington were  the  mere  ebullitions  of  political  folly,  and  proved 
nothing  against  the  University  but  the  want  of  good  manners 
on  gala  days ;  whereas,  the  Tracts  proved  the  absence  of  good 
theolo^,  a  defect  of  more  importance  in  such  an  institution,  and 
not  quite  so  easily  supplied.  It  may  tend  to  the  purification  of 
doctrines  and  manners  to  preserve  and  keep  before  the  world 
the  names  of  the  conclave,  who  expelled  six  Oxonians  for  ex- 
tempore prayer  and  singing  psalms,  and  retained  one  who  had 
been  proved  guilty  of  ridiculing  the  miracles  of  Moses  and  Jesus 
Christ.  But  Oxford  was  never  without  her  Abdiels^  and  it  gives 
us  real  pleasure  to  recall  the  names  of  those  faithful  ones  who 
protested  against  the  outrages  on  truth,  decency,  and  consis- 
tency. Her  cloud  of  witnesses  is  not  great,  but  it  is  sufficiently 
splendid  to  inspire  high  hopes,  as  well  as  hallowed  recollections. 
Kiiddleton,  in  his  <<  JBcclesiastical  Memoir,"  laments  that  any 
decree,  so  unsuitable  to  the  spirit  of  a  purely  Protestant  insti- 
tution, as  this  decree  of  the  Vice-Chancellor,  should  continue  to 
disgrace  the  archives  of  Oxford;  but  it  appears  to  us  a 
fortunate  circumstance  that  the  document  has  been  preserved, 
for  were  it  not  in  the  archives  of  Oxford,  who  would  believe  that 
it  had  ever  existed  ? 

Whilst  Lady  Huntingdon  was  thus  deploring  the  effects  of 
spiritual  wickedness  in  nigh  places,  hostile  to  that  cause  which 
more  than  life  she  valued,  there  were,  on  the  other  hand,  signs 
of  blessedness  to  rouse  her  to  more  vigorous  exertion.  The 
triumphant  death  of  Lord  Buchan,  and  the  impressions  made  on 
surviving  relatives,  were  very  remarkable  circumstances. 

The  Dowager  Countess  was  a  woman  of  strong  natural  un- 
derstanding, and  of  a  highly  cultivated  mind.  She  now  became 
the  devoted  Christian,  and  consecrated  her  honours  and  her 
talents  at  the  foot  of  the  Cross.  It  was  at  this  period  that  Lady 
Anne  Erskine,  her  eldest  daughter,  took  up  her  residence  with 
Lady  Huntingdon.  The  younff  Earl  also  was  valiantforthe truth, 
and  Mr.  Venn  and  Mr.  fierridge  were  appointed  his  chaplains. 
Mr.  Wesley  was  honoured  by  a  similar  mark  of  regard,  through 
the  intervention  of  Lady  Hiintingdon,  which  he  acknowledged 
in  the  following  letter,  cfated  London,  June  4th,  1768)  and  ad- 
dressed to  the  Countess,  at  Bute : — 
"  My  |dear  *Lad  j,— I  am  oblige4  to  your  Ladyship  and  to  Lady 


428  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

Buchon,  for  such  a  mark  of  your  regard  as  I  did  not  at  all  expect.  I 
purpose  to  return  her  Ladyship  thanks  hy  this  post. 

'^  That  remark  is  yery  striking  as  well  as  just :  if  it  is  the  Holy  Spirit 
that  hears  witness,  then  all  speaking  against  that  witness  is  one  species 
of  hlasphemy  against  the  Holy  Ghost  And  when  this  is  done  hy  those 
who  peculiarly  profess  to  honour  him,  it  must  in  a  peculiar  manner 
crieye  that  hlessed  Spirit.  Yet  I  have  heen  lately  surprised  to  ohserre, 
now  many  who  affirm  salvation  hy  faith,  have  run  into  this  meaning- 
fall  into  Sandeman's  notion,  that  faith  is  merely  an  assent  to  the  Bihle, 
and  not  only  undervaluing,  hut  even  ridiculing  the  whole  experience  of 
the  children  of  God.  But  so  much  the  more  do  I  rejoice  that  your 
Ladyship  is  still  preserved  from  that  spreading  contagion^  and  also  en- 
ahled,  plainly  and  openly  to  avow  the  plain,  old^  simple,  unfiashionahle 
Gospel.  I  am  glad  to  hear  your  Ladyship  has  thoughts  of  heing 
soon  in  town^  hut  sorry  that  yonr  health  is  not  yet  re-estahlished.  Yet 
certainly 

^  Health  we  shall  have  if  health  he  hest  :* 

for  the  Lord  still  ruleth  in  Heaven  and  earth.  Wishing  your  Lady- 
ship many  happy  years,  I  remain,  my  dear  Lady,  your  very  affectionate 
servant,  John  Wesley." 

Mr.  Shirley  and  Mr.  Fowling  (of  Dewsbury,  in  Yorkshire), 
were  at  this  time  in  Bath,  and  their  ministry  was  attended  by 
great  crowds.  Mr.  Daniel  Rowlands  repaired  thither,  to  accom- 
pany her  Ladyship  and  Mr.  Shirley  on  a  tour  into  Gloucester- 
shire. Proceeding  through  Stroua,  Painswick,  and  Gloucester, 
they  arrived  at  Tewkesbury,  where  Mr.  Shirley  preached  from 
that  passage — "Awaken  thou  that  sleepest !"  The  audience 
was  exceedingly  large,  and  deeply  attentive.  In  the  afternoon 
Mr.  Rowlands  explained  and  enforced  those  solemn  words — "  It 
is  appointed  unto  men  once  to  die."  The  congregation  was 
more  numerous  than  in  the  morning,  and  there  was  not  an  inat- 
tentive hearer.  "  A  remarkable  power  from  on  high  (observes 
her  Ladyship)  accompanied  the  message  of  his  servants,  and 
many  felt  the  arrows  of  distress.  O  may  we  rejoice  in  a  world 
of  spirits  that  we  have  not  run  in  vain,  neither  laboured  in  vain, 
but  that  many  in  this  populous  town  may  be  found  amongst  the 
redeemed  and  ransomed  of  the  Lord. 

From  Tewkesbury  Lady  Huntingdon  proceeded  to  Chelten- 
ham, where  much  good  had  been  effected  through  the  instru- 
mentality of  those  who  laboured  with  her  in  this  honourable  and 
glorious  cause.* 

Cheltenham  was  now  well  supplied  with  Gospel  ministers, 

•  As  early  as  the  year  1757,  her  Ladyship  engaged  Mr.  Madan  to  itinerate 
thiough  several  parts  of  the  kingdom,  ana  preach,  whenever  an  opportunity 
offered,  that  Gospel  which  bringeth  life  and  immortality  to  light.  Througn 
Hertfordshire,  Bedfordshire,  and  Buckinghamshire,  he  was  accompanied  by  Mr. 


8ELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  429 

through  the  interest  and  exertions  of  Lady  Huntingdon  and 
Lord  Dartmouth.  Mr.  Downing,  his  Lordship's  chaplain, 
obtained  the  pulpit  of  the  parish  church  two  or  three  times ; 
but  the  rector  and  churchwardens,  envious  of  the  signal  success 
of  his  preaching,  and  prejudiced  against  him,  the  doctrines  he 
taught,  and  the  persons  who  crowded  to  hear  him,  refused  to 
admit  him  again.  Thus  excluded  from  the  church,  Mr.  Down- 
ing preached  twice  a-week  at  Lord  Dartmouth's  residence,  and 
on  Sunday  evenings  the  attendance  was  always  very  numerous. 
An  enquiry  was  excited,  and  the  prospect  of  usefulness  becoming 
daily  more  encouraging,  his  Lordship  wrote  to  Lady  Hunting- 
don for  further  help. 

"  I  wish  (says  he)  your  Ladyship  would  use  your  influence  \iith 
Mr.  Whitefield  and  Mr.  Romaine  to  pay  us  a  visit.  Mr.  Stillingfleet 
has  been  obliged  to  return  to  Oxford  to  attend  some  indispensable 
duties,  and  I  know  not  where  to  direct  to  Mr.  Madan  or  Mr.  Venn. 
Mr.  Talbot  has  proniised  to  come  as  soon  as  possible,  and  next  month 
I  expect  good  Mr.  Walker,  of  Truro.  The  rector  was  so  displeased 
with  Mr.  Downing  preaching,  and  the  great  crowds  that  flocked  to 
hear  him,  that  he  excluded  him  from  the  pulpit  after  three  or  four  ser- 
mons, and  refused  to  admit  Mr.  Stillingfleet^  though  I  said  every  thing 
I  could  to  induce  him  to  do  so.  Since  then,  I  have  opened  my  house, 
but  And  it  too  small  for  the  numbers  who  solicit  permission  to  attend. 
I  hope  shortly  we  shall  have  a  large  place,  for  I  have  no  hopes  of  again 
obtaining  the  use  of  the  parish  church." 

Just  at  that  time  Mr.  Madan  arrived  in  Cheltenham,  and  was 
soon  after  joined  by  Messrs.  Venn  and  Maddock.*  Contrary 
to  the  expectations  of  Lord  Dartmouth,  both  Mr.  Madan  and 
Mr.  Venn  were  several  times  admitted  to  preach  in  the  parish 
church.  About  ten  days  after  Mr.  Whitefield  came  to  Chelten- 
ham, and  notice  of  his  arrival  -having  been  circulated  by  Lord 
Dartmouth,  an  immense  crowd  collected  from  all  parts,  expecting 
he  would  preach  in  the  church.  At  the  time  appointed,  Mr. 
Whitefield,  attended  by  Lord  and  Lady  Dartmouth,  Messrs. 
\  Madan,  Venn,  Talbot,  and  Downing,  arrived  at  the  church  door, 
and,  finding  it  closed,  Mr.  Whitefield  stood  upon  a  tombstone 
and  addressed  a  most  attentive  multitude  from  "  Ho  !  every  one 
that  thirsteth,"  &c.  In  the  evening  the  sacrament  was  admi- 
nistered by  Mr.  Whitefield,  at  his  Lordship's  residence,  after 
which    Mr.  Talbot  gave  a  short  exhortation,  and  Mr.   Venn 

Romaine  ;  and  on  their  arrival  in  Warwickshire  they  were  joined  by  Mr.  Talbot, 
then  vicar  of  Kineton  in  that  county,  from  whence  they  proceeded  through 
Worcestershire  into  Gloucestershire. 

*  He  had  juMt  been  admitted  into  orders,  an.l  shortly  afterwards  served  as 
curate  to  Mr.  Hervey,  at  Weston  Favcl. 


430  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

closed  the  solemnities  of  the  evening  with  a  most  scriptural 
prayer. 

On  these  subjects  Mr.  Venn  writes  to  Lady  Huntingdon  in 
the  following  terms  : — 

"  To  give  your  Ladyship  any  just  description  of  what  our  eyes  have 
witnessed  and  our  hearts  felt  within  the  last  few  days,  exceeds  my 
feeble  powers.  My  inmost  soul  is  penetrated  %vith  an  overwhelming 
sense  of  the  awful  power  and  presence  of  Jehovah,  who  hath  visited  us 
with  the  blessed  effusion  of  his  Spirit  on  this  occasion  in  a  very  eminent 
manner.  Under  Mr.  Whitefield's  first  sermon  there  was  a  visible  ap- 
pearance of  much  soul-concern  among  the  inmiense  crowd  that  filled 
every  part  of  the  burial  ground,  so  that  many  were  overcome  with 
fainting  :  others  sobbed  deeply ;  some  wept  silently,  and  a  solemn  con- 
cern appeared  on  the  countenance  of  almost  the  whole  assembly.  When 
he  came  to  press  the  injunction  in  the  text  (Isaiah  li.,  ],)  upon  the  un- 
converted and  tlie  ungodly,  his  words  seemed  to  cut  like  a  sword  upon 
several  in  the  congregation,  so  that  whilst  he  was  speaking  they  could 
no  longer  contain,  but  burst  out  in  the  most  piercing  bitter  cries.  At 
this  juncture  Mr.  Whiteiield  made  an  awful  pause  of  a  few  seconds — 
then  burst  into  a  flood  of  tears.  During  this  short  interval  Mr.  Madan 
and  myself  stood  up,  and  requested  the  people  as  much  as  possible  to 
restrain  themselves  from  making  any  noise.  Twice  afterwards  we  had 
to  repeat  the  same  counsel,  stul  advising  the  people  to  endeavour  to 
moderate  and  bound  their  feeling,  but  not  so  as  to  resist  or  stifle  their 
convictions.  0  with  what  eloquence,  what  enei^,  what  melting  ten- 
derness did  Mr.  Whitefield  beseech  sinners  to  be  reconciled  to  God — 
to  come  to  him  for  life-everlasting,  and  rest  their  weary  souls  in  Christ 
the  Saviour !  When  the  sermon  was  ended  the  people  seemed  chained 
to  the  ground.  Mr.  Madan,  Mr.  Talbot,  Mr.  Downing,  and  myself 
found  ample  employment  in  endeavouring  to  comfort  those  who  seemed 
broken  down  under  a  sense  of  guilt.  We  separated  in  different  direc- 
tions among  the  crowd,  and  each  was  quickly  surrounded  by  an  atten- 
tive audience,  still  eager  to  hear  all  the  words  of  this  life.  Of  such 
a  season  as  this  it  may  well  be  said,  '  I  have  heard  thee  in  a  time  ac- 
cepted, and  in  the  day  of  salvation  have  I  succoured  thee :  behold ! 
now  is  tlie  accepted  time — behold  !  now  is  the  day  of  salvation.' 

*'  The  next  day  a  like  scene  was  exhibited  to  our  wondering  eyes, 
when  dear  Mr.  Whitefield  preached  to  a  prodigious  congregation  from 
that  passage — '  Seek  the  Lord  while  he  may  be  found,  caff  upon  liim 
while  he  is  near.'  In  the  evening  Mr.  Talbot  preached  at  Lord  Dart- 
mouth's to  as  many  as  tlie  rooms  would  hold.  Hundreds  crowded 
round  his  Lordship's  residence,  anxiously  expecting  Mr.  Whitefield  to 
preach.  Exhausted  as  he  was  from  his  wonderful  exertions  in  the 
morning,  when  he  heard  that  there  were  multitudes  without,  he  stood 
upon  a  table  near  the  front  of  the  house,  and  proclaimed  the  efficacy  of 
the  Saviour's  blood  to  cleanse  the  vilest  of  the  vile  from  the  guilt  and 
filth  of  sin  and  iniquity. 

^  Intelligence  of  the  extraordinary  power  attending  the  word  soon 


8ELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  RUNTINODOK.  431 

Spread,  and  tbo  next  day  we  bad  Mr.  Charles  Wesley  and  many  friends 
from  Bristol,  Gloucester,  Tewkesbury,  Rodborough,  and  the  villages  in 
the  neighbourhood.  But  all  loud  weeping  and  piercing  cries  had  sub- 
sided ;  and  the  work  of  conversion  went  on,  though  in  a  more  silent 
manner.  For  several  da3rs  we  have  had  public  preaching,  which  has 
been  well  attended,  and  much  solid  good  has  been  done. 

"  Mr.  Whitefield  and  myself  purpose  leaving  this  for  London  the 
day  after  to-morrow,  and  Mr.  Madan  and  Mr.  Talbot  go  in  a  few  days 
to  Northamptonshire.  I  shall  defer  further  particulars  till  I  have  the 
honour  of  waiting  upon  your  Ladjrship.  With  many  thanks  for  all  your 
kindness  to  a  sinful  man,  and  increasing  prayers  ror  your  eternal  wel- 
fare, I  remain,  madam,  yours  in  the  GK)spel  of  our  adorable  Lord^ 

"  H.  Venn." 

On  leaving  Cheltenham  Mr.  Madan  and  Mr.  Talbot  itinerated 
through  Wiltshire,  Oxfordshire,  and  Northamptonshire.  At 
Winwick  their  preaching  was  attended  by  great  crowds,  having 
been  iavited  thither  by  Mr.  Hartley,  the  pious  and  useful  rector 
of  that  place.  From  thence  they  proceeded  to  Weston  Favel, 
where  they  were  most  joyfully  received  by  Mr.  Hervey.  When 
writing  to  his  excellent  friend  and  correspondent,  the  late  Mr. 
Ryland,  then  of  Warwick,  but  afterwards  of  Northampton,  he 
says,  "  I  had,  not  long  ago,  the  favour  of  a  visit  from  your 
worthy  neighbour,  Mr.  Talbot.  He  came  accompanied  by  Mr. 
Madan,  and  both  were  like  men  baptized  with  the  Holy  Ghost 
and  with  fire,  fervent  in  spirit,  and  setting  their  faces  as  a 
flint." 

From  Northampton  they  returned  to  Cheltenham,  where 
they  were  allowed  the  occasional  use  of  the  pulpit,  though  the 
rector  still  persisted  in  excluding  Lord  Dartmouth's  chaplain, 
Mr.  Downing.  Not  long  after,  Mr.  Walker,  of  Truro,  arrived 
at  his  Lordship's,  on  his  way  to  visit  Mr.  Hervey,  in  Northamp- 
tonshire, and  during  his  stay  he  preached  frequently  with  much 
acceptance. 

The  late  Mr.  Samuel  Wells  then  resided  in  Cheltenham,  as 
head  master  of  an  extensive  public  seminary :  he  was  a  man  of 
deep  piety,  and  having  tastea  of  the  richness  of  the  Gospel, 
opened  his  house  whenever  the  pulpit  of  the  church  could  not 
be  obtained.  There  many  able  and  faithful  ministers,  especially 
Mr.  Talbot  and  Mr.  Madan,  preached  two  or  three  times  in  the 
course  of  the  week,  and  officiated  occasionally  at  seyeral  villages 
in  the  neighbourhood. 

The  late  Mr.  Thomas  Trinder,  the  respectable  deacon  of  the 
Baptist  Church,  at  Northampton,  was  at  that  time  a  pupil  at 
Mr.  Wells's  school. 

<<  On  the  17  th  of  July  (says  he),  I  first  beard  the  Rev.  Mr.  Madan. 


492  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

His  discourse  was  fonnded  upon  the  third  chapter  of  John's  Gfospel, 
and  the  first  nine  Terses,  containing  the  conference  between  Nicodemas 
and  onr  Lord  Jesns  Christ.  I  do  not  intend  to  give  any  larger  account 
of  his  sermon  than  iost  to  sav,  he  shewed  what  regeneration  was  not ; 
but  more  particularly  what  it  was.  The  word  was  armed  nith  power 
to  me.  I  was  convinced  I  had  never  experienced  the  great  change  ; 
I  saw  the  necessity  of  it,  and  that  without  it  I  should  be  miserable  to 
all  eternity.  When  the  service  was  over  I  came  home  with  my  master 
and  schoolfellows,  but  I  think  it  was  with  great  difficulty  that  I  could 
refrain  from  tears  in  going  along  the  streets.  When  at  home,  I  retired 
into  my  chamber — upon  my  knees — there  to  give  vent  to  my  tears,  and 
prayed,  if  I  could  pray,  that  I  might  be  bom  again.      I  felt  that  I  vi*as 

a  lost  creature My  soul  was  now  all  on  fire  for  the  preaching 

of  the  word,  and  about  three  of  my  schoolfellows  got  together  after 
school,  in  our  room,  and  read  the  New  Testament.  The  Gospel  ac- 
cording to  John  wrought  most  upon  me,  but  chiefly  the  eight  or  nine 
last  chapters ;  these  I  read  over  and  over  privately  to  myself.  I,  with 
some  others  who  were  most  affected,  were  ready  to  break  through  the 
rules  of  decency  and  good  manners  to  hear  but  a  single  word  concern- 
ing salvation.  I  well  remember,  that  whenever  Mr.  Madan  came  to 
Mr.  Wells*s,&s  he  commonly  did  two  or  three  times  a- week  (Mr.  Wells 
being  tlie  only  religious  persou  that  he  and  his  brethren  were  conversant 
with  in  Cheltenham),  if  we  could  obtain  the  knowledge  of  it,  we  should 
immediately  run  down  from  school ;  and  happiest  was  he  who  could 
obtain  the  key-hole  to  hear  the  conversation." 

Mr.  Madan  appears  to  have  continued  at  Cheltenham  some 
considerable  length  of  time,  making  frequent  excursions  to 
various  parts  of  Gloucestershire  and  Warwickshire,  and  had 
the  satisfaction  of  seeing  his  labours  blessed.  Encoura^d  by 
the  success  he  had  met  with,  he  now  made  application  wr  the 
use  of  the  parish  church  for  a  week-day  sermon,  which  he 
soon  obtained  through  the  interest  of  Lord  Apsley,  to  whom  he 
was  chaplain,  and  who  was  at  this  time  a  visiter  at  Cheltenham. 
As  soon  as  he  had  accomplished  this  object,  he  wrote  to  inform 
Mr.  Whitefield,  from  whom  he  shortly  after  received  the  follow- 
ing reply,  dated  London,  Nov.  3,  1757  : — 

"  Your  kind  letter  was  very  acceptable.  Ere  now,  I  trust,  the 
Redeemer  hath  given  you  the  prospect  of  the  barren  wildemess  being 
turned  to  a  fruitful  field.  Never  fear ;  Jesusus  wWl  delight  to  honour 
you.  Every  clergyman's  name  is  Legion.  Two  more  are  lately  or- 
dained. 

'  Satan  lets  and  men  object, 
Yet  the  thing  they  thwart,  effect. 
Thoughts  are  vain  against  the  Lord, 
All  subserves  his  standing  word ; 
Wheels  encircHng  wheels  must  run, 
Each  in  course  to  bring  it  on. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  483 

*'  You  need  not  remind  me  of  prajring  for  the  noble  pair;  surely  they 
are  not  to  be  prisoners  another  winter.  The  kingdom  of  God  suffercth 
violence ;  and  really  if  we  would  take  it  by  force,  we  must  do  violence 
to  our  softest  passions,  and  be  content  to  be  esteemed  unkind  by  those 
whose  idols  we  once  were.  This  is  hard  work ;  but,  Abba,  Father,  all 
things  are  possible  with  the  I  Blessed  be  God  for  putting  it  into 
your  heart  to  ask  the  pulpit  for  a  week-day  sermon.  Are  we  not 
commanded  to  be  instant  in  season  and  out  of  season  ?  If  dear  Mrs. 
Madan  will  take  my  word  for  it,  I  will  be  answerable  for  your  health. 
The  joy  resulting  from  doing  good  will  be  a  continual  feast.  God 
knows  how  long  our  time  of  working  may  last.  This  order  imdoes 
us.  As  affairs  now  stand,  we  must  be  disorderly  or  useless.  0  for 
more  labourers !  Go  on,  my  dear  Sir,  and  tell  a  sinful  nation  that 
sin  and  unbelief  is  the  accursed  thing  which  prevents  success.  Thus, 
at  least,  we  shall  deliver  our  own  souls,  and  be  free  from  the  blood  of 
all  men.  But  I  forget ;  I  suppose  you  are  preparing  for  the  pulpit :  I 
dare  not  detain  you.  My  best  respects  await  Mrs.  Madan ;  your 
mother  is  well.  That  you  may  return  to  London  in  all  the  fulness  of 
the  blessings  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ  is  and  shall  be  the  prayer  of,  dear 
Sir,  yours,  &c.,  "  G.  Whitepield." 

In  a  letter  to  Mr.  Wesley  Mr.  Madan  speaks  thus  of  Lord 
and  Lady  Dartmouth,  whose  conduct,  in  opening  their  house  for 
the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  at  Cheltenham,  rendered  them 
extremely  conspicuous : — 

"  I  have  been  this  month  (says  he)  at  Cheltenham  to  drink  the 
waters,  and  have  preached  every  Sunday.  Some  of  the  company  arc 
much  offended ;  others  very  thankful :  the  poor  people  of  the  place 
arc  very  desirous  to  hear,  and  those  of  all  persuasions  flock  to  hear  the 
word  of  life.  Last  time  the  Quakers  and  Baptists  made  no  incon- 
siderable part  of  the  congregation ;  and  this  confirms  me  in  an  opinion 
I  have  long  had,  that  if  the  truth  was  preached  in  the  cuurch,  few,  if 
any,  would  separate  from  it. 

"  Lord  and  Lady  Dartmouth  are  here ;  we  pass  much  time  to- 
gether :  and  I  have  daily  more  and  more  reason  to  rejoice  before  God 
in  their  behalf;  all  prejudice  is  taken  out  of  their  hearts,  and  I  verily 
believe  their  delight  is  in  the  saints  that  are  upon  the  earth,  and  in 
such  as  exceed  in  virtue,  without  any  party  spirit,  in  narromng  their 
affection  towards  any  of  their  brethren  in  Christ  Jesus,  upon  account 
of  any  outward  difference.  0,  Sir,  how  extraordinary  is  it  to  see 
people  of  their  rank,  youth,  and  property,  joined  by  every  quaHfication 
and  endowment  of  mind  and  body  which  can  make  them  amiable  in 
the  eyes  of  the  world,  desiring  to  become  yet  more  vile  for  Christ's 
sake  ;  to  see  them  breathing  aflcr  inward  holiness,  as  the  hart  pantcth 
after  the  water-brooks  I  Surely  nothing  less  than  Almighty  power 
could  effect  this.  I  trust  you  will  remember  both  them  and  me  in 
your  prayers,  that  we  may  not  stop  short  of  the  crown  and  prize." 

By  the  labours  of  these  eminent  persons  considerable  attention 


434  THE  LIFE  AKD  TIMES  OF 

was  excited  to  the  subject  of  religion  in  this  resort  of  fashion 
and  dissipation.  Lady  Huntingdon  also  frequently  visited  Chel- 
tenham, and  her  active  spirit  diffused  there,  as  in  every  other 
place,  the  savour  of  that  name  which  she  loved.  On  one  of  her 
visits  to  Cheltenham,  her  Ladyship  writes  thus : — 

^  I  sincerely  hope  that  I  may  be  enabled  to  pay  much  attention  to 
this  interesting  field  of  labour.  There  is  certainly  an  incorrigible 
apathy  prevalent  amongst  the  gay  who  frequent  this  place,  and  it  is 
difficult  to  prevail  upon  them  to  attend  the  faithful  preaching  of  the 
truth  as  it  IS  in  Jesus.  Nevertheless,  much  good  has  been  done,  and 
not  a  few  have  given  manifest  proofs  of  the  reality  of  their  conversion 
to  God,  and  of" their  love  to  his  ways.  Over  such  we  do  and  will  re- 
joice as  the  fruits  of  our  humble  efforts.  Lord,  give  us  the  spirit  of 
ardent  labour,  and  of  patient  faith  ;  for  ^  neither  is  he  that  planteth 
anything,  neither  is  he  that  watereth,  but  God  that  giveth  the  increase.' 
To  his  name,  then,  be  all  the  glory." 

Some  time  after  her  Ladyship's  college  was  established  at 
Trevecca,  at  the  particular  request  of  some  of  the  leading  mem- 
bers in  the  Gloucestershire  Association,  she  sent  some  of  the 
students  to  Cheltenham :  those  who  laboured  there  and  in 
other  parts  of  Gloucestershire,  were  Messrs.  Matthew  and  Mark 
Wilks,  Boddily,  Richardson,  Honeywell,  Shenstone,  and  Brewer. 
Mr.  Shenstone,  having  adopted  some  opinions  on  the  subject  of 
infant  baptism,  drew  away  many  of  the  congregation,  and  acted 
in  other  respects  so  as  to  displease  his  kind  patroness  and  sup- 
porter. Many  disagreeable  circumstances  arising  from  some 
improper  interference  with  the  students,  her  Ladyship  wrote  to 
Mr.  Whitefield's  old  friend,  Gabriel  Harris,  Esq.,  one  of  the 
aldermen  of  Gloucester,  giving  an  ample  detail  of  her  proceed- 
ings     This  was  in  September,  1781  : — 

"  My  dear  Sir,— You  will  find  by  this  how  much  I  feel  obli<»ed  by 
taking  |your  word,  but  before  I  have  done,  I  fear  your  patience  will 
be  proved.  My  present  difficulties  oblige  my  confidence  in  you,  hoping 
to  prevent  any  perp]exiti3S  by  so  judicious  a  friend,  and  that  in  the 
course  which  I  account  my  only  happiness  on  earth.  Your  good  opi- 
nion of  Mr.  Hogg,  and  your  long  acquaintance  with  him,  renders  your 
access  easy  and  natural  to  find  out  matters  so  dark  and  obscure,  as 
well  as  extremely  distressing  to  me.  In  March  last,  I  had  a  letter 
from  Mr.  Butler,  one  of  the  principals  in  the  Gloucestershire  connexion, 
earnestly  requesting  mc  to  take  the  chapel  at  Cheltenham  into  ray 
hands,  as  they  had  no  ministers  for  it.  I  had  no  great  ease  upon  my 
mind  on  the  subject,  rrom  the  delicacy  of  appearing  in  so  wrong  ond 
unfaithful  a  light  as  entering  into  others,  labours.  I  got  Mr.  Groves 
(one  that  often  preaches  for  them)  to  write  me  word  if  it  was  the 
united  desire  of  the  managers ;  to  which,  by  letter,  he  replied  in  tlie 
affirmative.     I  then  sent  the  student  I  believe  best  calculated  for  that 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  435 

service.  Mr.  Hogg  wrote  me  the  most  thankful  and  christian  letter 
on  the  occasion.     Very  soon  after  this  •  met  with  eome  of  my 

students  in  our  work  in  various  parts  of  Wiltshire,  and  told  them  that 
the  old  man  intended  seducing  the  students  I  had  sent  to  Cheltenham ; 
and  in  consequence  of  this  tlie  Wiltshire  student,  a  very  honest  young 
man,  shocked  at  the  duplicity  that  did  appear  in  this  matter,  came  over 
to  inform  me  of  it  I  said  I  could  not  give  credit  to  anything  so  un- 
worthy ;  but  as  he  seemed  so  uneasy,  being  a  student  himself,  and 
liable  to  much  reflection  upon  himself  by  any  suspicion,  I  advised  him, 
as  he  heard  this  said,  to  go,  as  from  himself  to  the  old  man,  and  ask 
if  there  was  any  truth  in  it.  He  went  directly  from  Bath  (where  I  then 
was)  and  opened  the  matter.  They  positively  declared  such  a  thing 
never  entered  into  their  thoughts ;  and  after  he  went  to  his  brother 
student  at  Cheltenham,  who  had  not  been  (of  his  four  years)  but  one 
year  and  a  half.  He  dso  denied  the  thought.  At  this  very  time  the 
acceptance  of  another  student  serving  our  work  in  Staffordshire  was 
transacting,  and  a  letter  was  found  by  the  master  of  the  college,  with 
directions  for  him  to  go  and  settle  at  Wooton-under-Edge.  I  called 
on  Mr.  Hogg  on  my  way  here,  and  had  the  most  christian  and  friendly 
reception.  He  wanted  me  to  go  to  Rodborough  ;  but  I  on  no  account 
could  do  this,  and  gently  said,  '  I  don't  approve  your  ministers  ;*  and 
that  day  I  first  heard  that  the  student  had  arrived  there  from  my  col- 
lege. I  let  all  pass,  and  coming  home  found  that  student  gone,  afler 
labouring  to  divide  and  bring  all  coniusion  into  the  college.  I  wrote 
to  the  Cheltenham  student  (Shenstone)  to  order  him  to  France,  as  having 
a  more  able  one  to  employ  while  the  company  was  there.  But  he 
sent  him  back,  and  said  he  would  not  go.  I  then  repeated  my  orders 
to  both  to  change,  and  the  France  student  went  to  Cheltenham  ;  and 
again  Shenstone  said  he  would  not  stir,  sent  his  horse  home  to  the 
college,  and  refused  even  answering  my  letter.  In  this  situation  I  am. 
They  want  me  to  be  angry,  and  to  turn  him  off,  and  so  charge  all  this 
on  me,  in  order  to  have  him  leave  me  with  appearance  of  some  face 
of  justice;  and  I  am  bound  to  conclude  they  will  take  back  Chelten- 
ham, and  fix  that  student  there.  Their  whole  connexion  of  preachers 
arc  those  who  have  broken  through  every  tie  that  could  hold  an  honest 
man  in  order.  You  may  enquire  tliis  most  fully  after  them.  This 
conduct  I  abhor  of  entering  into  those  blessed  men's  labours,  and  try- 
ing to  bring  every  scandal  upon  the  best  of  men,  who  for  near  forty 
years  I  have  known,  loved,  and  honoured,  for  the  most  disinterested 
services  I  have  yet  known  in  the  world  or  church  either.  Tlie  point 
is  now  to  seduce  away,  by  any  means,  those  whom  I  at  much  expense^ 
labour,  and  care  for  the  poorest,  and  with  the  Lord's  blessing,  have 
maintained.  After  a  year  or  two,  their  gifts  appear,  and  while  honest 
and  simple  are  useful — these  are  the  objects  as  you  see  above,  and  by 
these  to  raise  a  connexion  to  oppose  and  distress  me.  Four  years  is 
their  absolute  engagement  to  labour  in  the  place ;  those  from  under  my 
roof,  ♦         #         #         «  tjiej  ge^  ag  ^^^y  can,  without  tlio 

least  information  or  the  smallest  civility  to  me.  This  is  the  hopeful 
state  of  the  Oloucesterahire  coxmexion.    The  good  old  man,  Hogg, 


436  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OP 

desired  peace  and  union  witli  me  from  his  heart ;  but  still  truant  prin- 
ciples rule,  I  may  be  silent,  but  never  will  approve.  I  send  you  ar- 
ticles of  agreement  under  the  strictest  equity  I  know.  The  wicked 
and  most  shameful  confusion  they  have  made  in  Wales  must  be  no 
longer  continued  ;  the  spint  of  God  must  be  in  all  righteousness,  good- 
ness, and  truth :  the  divisions  and  distractions  occasioned  in  God's 
church  by  those  prove  this  is  not  their  guide ;  and  no  peace  can  be 
made  with  my  dear  Welsh  friends  and  me,  but  what  has  this  for  the 
foundation.     ■  has  been  in  London  to  offer  peace,  and  wanted 

to  preach  in  our  large  congregation,  and  by  getting  in  bring  nothing 
but  division.  I  have  avoided  tliis  with  him,  but  upon  these  con- 
ditions, viz. — that  the  Welsh  work  be  instantly  returned  to  the  asso- 
cation,  and  that  my  own  ministers  must  have  the  lead  through  all 
the  work.  There  are  nine  or  ten  of  the  first  clergymen  in  this  nation 
for  abilities,  disinterestedness,  gifts,  and  grace ;  and  had  their  eyes  been 
single  they  would  have  rejoiced  in  these,  in  the  room  of  such  poor  run- 
away boys  as  they  only  employ  among  them. 

*'  Matters  go  on  ill  in  dear  Mr.  Whitcfield's  places,  and  you  must 
judge  when  the  good  old  men  drop  in  Gloucestershire,  what  these 
poor  honest  souls  must  be  left  to,  and  which  I  have  some  reason   to 
believe  does  distress  their  poor  old  hearts.     My  intention  by  this 
(trusting  on  your  fidelity)  is  to  come  to  these  close  quarters  of  con- 
science with  Hogg : — ^how  receiving  these  men  can  be  consistent  with 
common  justice,  and  if  he  thinks  such  who  have  acted  so  unfaithfully 
can  be  good  men,  or  men  fit  to  be  trusted  with  the  souls  of  simi)le 
honest  people  ?     Take  notice,  I  mention  this  to  prevent  future  robbery, 
as  our  work  is  so  immense  we  want  all  hands  that  appear  fit  to  be  sent, 
and  such  reproach  brought  upon  the  college  by  all  honest  men  by  tliis 
means,  that  make  my  heart  ache,  and  often  makes  me,  like  him  under 
the  juniper  tree,  say,  *  It  is  better  for  me  to  die  :*  but  strength  comes 
for  the  next  day  of  trial,  and  hitherto  the  Lord  Jesus  has  kept  my 
poor  unworthy  soul  in  his  hands,  and  my  weak,  foolish,  and  blunder- 
ing labours  as  my  only  honour  and  happiness  through  all  in  his  dear 
divine  services.     Could  any  further  procceedings  for  such  barefaced 
wrong  be  prevented,  and  I  serve  them  on  any  occasion,  as  a  truly  dis- 
interested friend  for  the  Lord  s  sake,  I  can  say  my  heart  is  ready ;  but 
to  be  the  dupe  for  such  evil  practices  I  must  make  great  distance  and 
silence  my  point,  ever  wishing  to  do  my  worst  enemy  any  possible 
good,  so  it  does  not  essentially  affect  those  my  honour  and  justice 
oblige  me  to   defend.     Perfect   harmony  and  the    most  astonishing 
success  now    follow  our    disinterested    labours    over  England    and 
Wales  ;  and  unless  this  point  is  universally  carried  through  by  all,  I 
would  suffer  death  rather  than  one  dying  moment  should  convince  me 
any  part  of  my  life  had  another  meaning.     I  know  your  love  and 
faithful  regard  to  dear  Mr.  Whitefield  would  make  you  feel  for  these 
miserable  threatenings.     You  will  be  sure  unceasing  difficulties  to  me 
me  must  arise,  did  any  know  of  my  communicating  this  to  you — but 
you  must  assert  the  facts  without  mt/  name  on  any  account ;  and  if  a 
possible  evil  can  be  avoided  for  the  future  by  your  means,  I  am  sure 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  437 

you  will  rejoice.      I  should  just  mention *8  conduct  previous 

to  this,  in  taking  possession  of  two  congregations  the  college  had 
laboured  in  and  raised  to  me  at  my  great  expense;  and  trying  every 
means  to  reflect  and  bring  disgrace  upon  us  all,  by  trying  to  divide  my 
friends  from  me,  and  so  taking  us  all  up  at  times  as  his  merry  Andrews 
into  the  pulpit^  and  leaving  a  bitter  sting,  as  far  as  he  could,  through  his 
evil  jokes.  All  this,  though  not  fair  or  upright,  I  should  have  so  far 
despised  as  for  peace'  sake  to  have  passed  over  ;  but  it  is  the  worm  that 
yet  lies  at  the  bottom  of  the  gourd  in  Wales,  that  no  honest  conscienco 
can  put  up  with,  that  staggers  all  within  me,  knowing  the  whole  of 
this  by  the  friends  departea  from  the  association  to  me  with  all  par- 
ticulars, ministers,  and  the  true  trusteet  for  the  place  they  possess. 
^^  Boddily  and  Brewer  have  written  to  me  very  lately*  as  wishing  to 

f've  me  no  offence,  and  they  have  all  my  good  wishes  for  them.  As 
mean'  to  hurt  none  by  this,  but  save  the  cause  from  offence,  and  to 
prevent  the  ruin  of  young  men  ignorant  of  the  world,  and  cbuwn  in 
thus  to  their  destruction,  this  is  also  due  from  me  by  a  means  that 
cannot  hurt  the  worst,  and  on  this  account  I  could  wish,  on  your  being 
fully  apprised  of  these  my  simple  and  honest  wishes,  to  prevent  this 
falling  mto  any  hands  whatsoever,  you  would  bum  it  I  am  tired  with 
thinking  I  tire  so  severely  my  kind  and  worthy  friend ;  but  in  this  most 
faithful  relation  my  heart  seems  relieved,  knowing  that  a  single  mean- 
ing to  hurt  any  creature  is  not  intended  by  me,  but  one  single  desire  to 
prevent  the  evil  of  all,  and  the  honour  of  our  blessed  Lord's  Church 
among  all  his  servants.  The  very,  very  meanest  and  least  he  ever  had, 
is,  ever  dear  Sir,  your  truly  faithful  and  ever  obliged  friend, 

"  S.  Huntingdon. 

*^  P.  S.  Let  me  hear  soon  that  you  have  received  this. 

"  The  articles  intended  to  be  proposed,  and  which  never  were,  I  send 
ou ;  but  since  the  proposals  for  peace  were  sent  from  Mr.  Keenc  and 
it.  Hill  in  London,  I  could  not  abide  by  them  universally,  yet  par- 
tially they  might  be  considered  as  having  some  utility  in  them."* 


^ 


*  Articles  intended  to  be  proposed,  mentioned  in  the  foregoing  letter: — 

The  work  of  righteousness  shall  be  peace^  and  the  effect  of  righteousness  quietness 
and  assuranee/or  ever,     Isaiah  xxxii.  17. 

Proposals  of  peace  and  union  for  the  most  universal  spread  of  the  Gospel  in 
Ihe  connexion  of  the  Rev.  Mr.  Rowlands,  Mr.  Hogg,  and  Lady  Huntingdon. 

I.  The  Gloucestershire  connexion  to  deliver  up  to  the  Welsh  Association  all 
right,  power,  or  influence  in  Haverfordwest,  or  elsewhere  in  Wales,  held  by 
them  :  thus  having  no  preference. 

II.  That  each  connexion  take  their  own  private  cares  and  expenses  upon 
themselves ;  and  that  those  ministers  who  have  been  found  most  faithful  to  the 
Lord,  and  have  been  owned  by  him  in  each  connexion,  shall  by  the  other  con- 
nexions ever  be  accounted  worthy  of  double  honour,  and  be  universally  received 
by  the  several  connexions  when  applied  to  for  their  services. 

III.  When  any  minister  or  ministers  are  wanted,  a  letter  to  be  %vrote  to  the 
immediate  connexion  to  which  they  belong,  requesting  their  assistance,  und  for 
what  time,  that  the  most  general  help  to  the  whole  maybe  considered,  and  thus 
best  and  most  universally  served. 

IV.  No  minister  or  prindptl  in  any  of  the  connexions  to  interfere  in  any 

VOL.  I. — ^E  £ 


488  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

At  length  the  differences  and  diyisions  became  so  disagree- 
able that  Lady  Huntingdon  determined  on  gi^ng  up  CheiteD- 
bam  altogether,  and  accordingly  wrote  to  Mr.  Brewer  to  that 
effect  Her  letter  is  dated  from  Trerecca,  February  10> 
1782. 

^'Mr.  Brewer,— Your  princfpal  Mtnatioii  in  the  Rodborough  con* 
nexioo  oUigeeme  lt>  gire  you  this  tronble.  You  must  be  well  acquainted 
that  at  ^e  requeet  of  others,  aad  Mr.  Butler  in  particular^  I  undertook 
the  senriees  at  Cheltenliank,  hy  no  meaoa  my  choice,  and  that  lest  diffi- 
culties mi^t  ariee  in  its  bemg  in  the  midst  of  another  connexion,  which 
I  had  nerer  for  a  moment  interfered  with,  and  so  produce  some  conse- 
quencea,  wherein  peace,  the  bond  of  all  unleo,  might  in  the  end  bo 
mberaUy  wanting.     The  friendly  appearances  in  this  matter  made  me 

£d  at  length  to  giye  any  asnslaace^  and  I  appointed  one  of  my  stu- 
nts, Mr.  Shenstone,  a  sober  and  serious  young  man^  who  had  long 
been  ill  at  the  college,  hoping  that  the  poor  might  be  profited  by  his 
labours  and  hia  health  restored :  in  the  last  it  proved  succesBlixl,  but 
hia  whole  conduct  so  reversed  the  meaning  of  this  college  that  I  never 
Bean  to  admit  of  his  return  here,  or  to  labour  in  any  part  of  this  eon- 
nexion.  I  am  obUged  to  ha  ihua  explicit,  as  he  has  taken  the  liberty 
to  order  my  stadent  at  Worcester  to  chauge  with  him,  while  hia  own 
nnfaithfal  practiod  regarded  no  orders  given  to  himself.  This,  with 
various  othar  inataaees  of  insolence  most  unfit  for  his  own  character, 
and  that  while  under  obligations  of  his  own  making,  and  even  quita 
unsought  by  ma,  renders  him  the  last  kind  of  disposition  I  can  hopa 
any  good  from  myself,  or  recommend  to  others  as  a  miuister  of  that 
Gospel  which  is  in  all  truth  and  righteouancss.     The  warning  I  had  of 

other  than  their  own,  that  no  divisions  may  arise,  and  that  if  sticli  are  known 
it  ought  to  be  mutually  agreed  by  aU  to  discard  Mich  an  one,  and  that  aH  fomir 
Uc  care  be  takan  to  prevent  perplexities  to  the  people^  and  that  mutwu  lovt 
and  unwearied  diligence  alike  be  expected,  having  this  one  point  only  in  view, 
viz  :  the  enlargemeut  of  our  preciouii  Lord's  kingdom,^by  the  call  of  perishing 
souls  all  over  England  and  Wales. 

V.  In  order  that  this  may  be  best  effected ,  four  general  meetings  in  the  year 
will  be  needful.  To  each  of  these  a  deputation,  agreed  upon,  should  be  sent 
of  six  chosen  out  of  each  connexion,  to  represent  the  bodies  to  which  dwy  be- 
long, and  to  give  such  particukirs  in  as  they  may  want  to  communicate^  and 
what  mutual  help  from  any  quarter  they  may  be  bett  assisted  by.  These  meet- 
ings to  be  at  Mr.  Rowlands'  Association,  the  College  Anniversary,  the  Gloueca 
tershire  Association,  and  another  in  London  once  a-year,  to  have  a  full  account 
of  the  last  vear*s  success,  and  to  agree  upon  the  future  steps  fur  each  connexion 
unitedly  to  follow  the  ensuing  year. 

Memorandum. — These  hints  are  given  for  the  benefit  of  the  Gloucester  con- 
nexion, upon  a  supposition  they  act  separately  from  the  Tabemade  and  other 
connexions,  otherwise  Lady  Huntingdon  could  not  think  of  appearing  to  inter- 
fere with  them,  or  in  the  ■msUest  degree  to  divide  friends,  having  no  ouer  mean- 
ing than  those  already  mentioned,  and  to  shew  by  this  her  readinesa  to  aerve 
and  comply  with  the  wishes  of  Mr.  Uogg»^Mr.  \1nes»  and  Mr.  ^Butler,  as  her  own 
and  Mr.  Whitefield's  old  friends. 

If  the  first  article  respecting  Haverfordwest  is  not  ?HT»f^«H  witbt  the  whole 
wiUdroj^ 


8ELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  UUNTINGDOK.  439 

the  intended  imposition  relative  to  Cheltenham  I  gave  no  credit  to. 
thoush  now  too,  too  clearly  explained  hy  the  event ;  as  I  had  sup- 
posed it  impossihle  that  honest  men,  fearing  God,  could  mean  to  act  so 
deceitfully  oy  one  kindly  disposed  to  serve  them,  and  never  having 
given  them  any  offence,  so  on  tliat  account  I  could  not  look  to  the 
warmth  of  any  personal  resentment  for  tlie  possible  cause.  The  whole 
of  this  affair  obliges  me  to  give  up  Cheltenham  for  any  future  care 
under  this  connexion.  Should  the  united  ill-usage  of  the  mani^ert 
have  been  occasioned  by  Shenstone's  intended  views  of  being  jomed 
with  them,  the  end  it  now  most  certainly  obtained,  yet  on  both  sides 
moti  unworthy  of  honest  men.  I  wish  them  all  every  blessing  con- 
nected for  the  future  with  the  most  uprieht  conduct  towards  God  and 
man  ;  but  I  am  truly  glad  they  are  freed  from  one  they  could  use  so 
ill,  and  adding  this  satisfaction  to  them  of  being  sure  oi  my  never  on 
any  occasion  troubling  them  for  one  moment  in  future.  Nevertheless, 
the  Judge  of  the  whole  earth  ^vill  do  right ;  and  they  must  bear  their 
burdens  whosoever  they  be. 

'<  As  I  never  heard  you  were  concerned  in  this  affair^  and  believing 
you  a  faithful  servant  of  God,  I  thought  you  most  proper  to  give  this 
information  to  the  managers,  Shenstoue  and  Ballinger,  at  Cheltenham ; 
praying  God  a  thousand-fold  of  blessings  may  arise  to  the  succeeding 
trust  of  that  very  important  stand  for  the  Gospel^  and  most  ftuthfully 
and  earnestly  requestmg  every  increasing  honour  upon  your  judicious 
and  upright  services  in  the  Church  of  Christ,  and  wherein  you  may  be 
eminently  owned  by  the  Lord  in  bringing  glory  to  his  name,  and 
abounding  joy  and  peace  to  your  own  soul.  Live  in  peace  and  the 
God  of  peace  shall  be  with  you.  This  is  my  motto  as  far  as  lies  in 
us  to  maintain;  and  when  this  disposition  is  wanting,  distance  and 
silence  may  remain  the  next  best  fruit  of  divine  charity  to  our  worst 
enemies. 

'^  Blessed  be  God,  the  offence  of  the  Cross  does  not  sever  us  from 
the  world  with  so  many  threatcuings,  but  love  and  harmony  unite  us 
to  each  other.  I  am,  Mr.  Brewer,  with  e;rcat  regard  and  respect  to 
your  character,  your  much  obliged  and  faithful  friend, 

"S.  Huntingdon. 

*^  P.S.  I  hope  to  give  you  pleasure  by  assuring  you  your  honest  porter 
promises  well,  and  I  hope  you  will  have  great  cause  to  rejoice  in  future 
for  your  recommendation." 

Thus  by  the  conduct  of  Mr.  Shenstone,  Lady  Huntine^don 
was  induced  to  withdraw  her  valuable  assistance  lirom  Chelten- 
ham; and  the  narrow,  confined  views  of  this  gentleman  ended 
in  establishing  a  small  Baptist  congregation,  which,  with  a  still 
smaller  one,  belonging  to  the  Wesleyan  Methodists,  and  the 
parish  church,  constituted  all  the  places  of  worship  at  that  time 
m  the  town.  A  poor  provision  for  the  accommodation  of  a  place, 
containing  three  tliousand  resident  inhabitants,  and  which  was  the 
annual  resort  of  many  thousand  persons,  who  visited  it  for  the 

E  £  2 


4^  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

benefit  of  the  waters.  For  a  number  of  years  the  town  conti- 
nued increasing,  anil  while  Christians  of  various  denominations 
felt  the  inconveniency  of  having  no  place  of  worship  suited  to 
their  wishes,  those  which  existed  were  not  capable  of  holding 
all  that  were  disposed  to  attend.* 

Lady  Huntingdon's  attention  was  now  directed  to  Gloucester- 
shire and  Worcestershire,  where  a  spirit  of  religious  inquiry  con- 
tinued to  increase.  This  was  not  only  apparent  from  the  numbers 
who  attended  the  ministry  of  Mr.  Andrews,  and  of  those  ministers 
who  occasionally  visited  Gloucester,  but  in  the  deep  seriousness 
which  they  manifested  while  sitting  under  the  word.  The 
labours  of  Mr.  Alderman  Harris  had  been  abundantly  blessed. 
Through  evil  report  and  through  good  this  excellent  man  held 

*  In  the  year  1807,  an  appeal  was  made  to  the  liberality  of  tbe  religious 
world  in  behalf  of  a  chapel  intended  to  be  erected  at  Cheltenham,  wherein  the 
Gospel  should  be  plainly  preached,  and  the  mode  of  worship  should,  as  much 
as  possible,  meet  tne  prejudices  of  aU  Christians,  without  invading  the  rights  of 
concience.  The  service  was  to  be  conducted  on  the  plan  of  Lady  Huntingdon's 
chapels ;  the  Liturgy  to  be  read,  and  the  pulpit  open  to  ministers  of  various 
denominations  who  embraced  orthodox  pnnciples,  and  whose  characters  were 
unblemished,  till  the  congregation  that  might  be  gathered,  should  fix  upon  a 
settled  minister  of  sound  piety  and  approved  and  suitable  talents. 

On  the  fifth  of  July,  1808,  the  foundation  of  this  chapel  was  laid  by  the  Rev. 
Rowland  Hill,  who  addressed  a  very  numerous  assembly  of  about  three  thou- 
sand, in  an  energetic  and  appropriate  speech;  after  which  the  Rev.  John 
Brown,  then  minister  of  Lady  Huntingdon's  chapel  at  Ebley,  in  Gloucester, 
shire,  concluded  with  prayer.  On  the  2nd  of  August,  1809,  the  chapel,  being 
entirely  finished,  was  opened  for  public  worship  by  Mr.  Hill,  who  preached  in 
the  morning,  and  Mr.  Jay,  of  Bath,  in  the  evening,  to  very  crowded  congrega- 
tions. A  variety  of  ministers  supplied  the  chapel  till  tbe  year  1813,  when  Mr. 
Brown,  the  present  gifted  and  respectable  minister,  commenced  his  pastoral 
charge. 

In  1816,  Robert  Capper,  Esq.,  having  taken  up  his  residence  at  Cheltenham, 
built,  at  his  own  expense,  a  very  handsome  and  commodious  place  of  worship, 
called  "  Portland  Chapel,"  which  in  the  year  1819,  he  vested  in  the  present 
trustees  of  Lady  Huntingdon's  connexion.  This  neat  and  convenient  chapel 
was  opened  for  public  worship  on  Sunday,  June  27th,  1819,  by  the  Rev.  James 
Sherman,  now  minister  of  Surrey  Chapel,  who  preached  both  morning  and 
evening.  Portland  Chapel  was  supplied  by  various  ministers  in  the  connexion 
till  the  Rev.  Elias  Parry,  who  had  his  education  at  Cheskunt  college,  was  ap- 
pointed minister.  On  his  removal  to  London,  as  minister  of  Northampton 
Tabernacle,  the  chapel  was  supplied  by  the  Rev.  J.  L.  Wake,  who  continues 
to  be  the  minister. 

Mr.  Biddulph  when  residir^  at  Henwick  Hill,  within  a  mile  of  Cheltenham 
opened  his  house  momiug  and  evening  for  family  prayer ;  the  faithful  few  who 

firofited  by  this  followed  him  to  Tibberton  church,  and  when  he  went  away 
rom  Worcester,  (1767,)  assembled  in  a  garret  of  Mr.  Skinner's  warehouse. 
There  Sir  Richard  Hill  and  his  venerable  brother,  the  late  Rev.  Rowland  HiU, 
often  preached.  A  few  years  ago,  the  latter,  while  passing  with  the  present, 
minister  through  the  street  in  which  the  old  building  stood,  immediately  recog- 
nized it,  and  said,  in  a  way  peculiar  to  himself,  *'  Why,  this  is  the  place,  is 
it  not,  where  we  used  to  preach  at  Mr.  Skinner's?  Yes,  in  Mr.  Skinner's 
garret  r 


SEUNA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  441 

on  the  unvarying  tenor  of  his  way,  and  many  by  his  instrumen- 
tality experienced  the  grace  of  God  in  truth. 

On  Lady  Huntingdon's  visit  to  Gloucester  she  was  accom- 
panied by  mr.  Shirley  and  Mr.  Rowlands,  both  of  whom  preached 
several  times  in  the  pulpits  of  the  Established  Church.  A 
chapel  was  afterwards  erected,  and  supplied  by  the  ministers 
and  students  in  the  connexion.  The  late  Mr.  Thorne,  who  had 
his  education  at  Trevecca,  was  for  many  years  the  resident 
minister  at  Gloucester.  From  Gloucester  Lady  Huntingdon, 
and  the  clergymen  who  accompanied  her,  proceeded  to  Wor- 
cester— 

"  Where  (says  her  Ladyship)  we  have  full  employment  in  minis- 
tering to  a  people  not  unwilling  to  hear  the  Gospel.  The  labours  of 
Mr.  Glascott,  Mr.  Venn,  and  others,  have  excited  a  disposition  among 
the  inhabitants  of  this  city  to  attend  to  the  things  which  belong  to 
their  peace.  Nearly  two  hundred  persons  have  been  united  in  religious 
society,  many  of  whom  have  given  decisive  proofs  of  their  conversion 
to  God,  and  arc  encouraging  rewards  of  our  disinterested  labours  for 
our  great  and  gracious  Master.  To  spread  the  knowledge  of  his  blessed 
name  amongst  those  who  knew  not  God  has  been  my  chief  desire  for 
many  years:  and  I  think  that  desire  has  suffered  no  diminution,  but 
rather  gained  strength,  since  I  left  Bath  ;  and  my  daily  prayers  and 
exertions  are  made  with  a  view  to  an  increased  ability  to  afford  my 
fellow-sinners  all  the  blessings  connected  witli  that  unspeakably  pre- 
cious Gospel  which  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation." 

The  vigorous  and  well-directed  efforts  of  her  Ladyship,  and 
the  powerful  preaching  of  Mr.  Shirley  and  Mr.  Rowlanosi  excited 
an  interest  so  lively  and  extensive,  that  her  Ladyship  was  so- 
licited by  a  considerable  number  of  persons  to  erect  a  chapel 
for  the  preaching  of  that  Gospel  wnich  they  could  not  hear 
within  the  walls  of  their  parish  churches.  To  this  request  she 
readily  yielded ;  and  the  necessary  steps  for  this  purpose  were 
taken  without  delay. 

*'  Thus  have  I  been  called  (observes  her  Ladyship)  to  erect  another 
chapel  for  the  service  of  the  living  God.  May  He  deign  to  bless  it, 
and  cause  the  cloud  of  his  gracious  presence  to  rest  upon  it !  It  is  his 
work  ;  I  can  only  plant :  his  Holy  Spirit  will  water,  and  giye  the  in- 
crease. I  leave  all  events  with  him.  Great  difficulties  and  dis- 
couragements attend  every  effort  to  spread  the  knowledge  of  divine 
truth :  but  those  who  labour  with  me  have  been  taught  to  feci  tliat 
it  is  not  by  might,  nor  by  power ;  and  that  nothing  short  of  the  vital 
energy  of  the  Holy  Ghost  can  give  success  to  the  preaching  of  the 
Gospel." 

About  the  year  1771  a  chapel  was  erected  in  Bridport-street, 
partly  by  a  suDscription,  and  the  interest  of  the  remaining  debt 


442  THC  LIFK  AND  TIMES  OV 

was  paid  by  Lady  Huntingdon  till  the  congregation  was  enabled 
to  liquidate  the  whole.  This  chapel  was  opened  by  the  Hon. 
and  Rer.  Walter  Shirley  in  177a 

^  It  will  afford  you  unspeakable  i^estare  (writes  Lady  Huntingdon) 
to  hear  of  the  amasnng  success  which  bath  attended  our  labours  at 
Worcester.  The  chapel  was  crowded,  and  multitudes  went  away  un- 
able to  gain  admittance.  We  had  a  glorious  display  of  the  power  and 
grace  of  our  adorable  Immanuel,  and  dear  Mr.  Snirley  was  enabled 
to  testify  of  the  salration  which  is  provided  for  the  guilty  and  the 
lost  with  great  boldness  and  fidelity.  I  know  not  which  way  to  turn, 
I  have  so  many  applications  from  the  people  in  various  parts  of  the 
kingdom  for  more  labourers.  Pray  mightily  to  the  Lord  to  send  forth 
a  host  of  holy  devoted  souls  to  proclaim  the  glory  of  his  righteousness 
and  blood  to  an  unbelieving  and  degenerate  world.  I  feel  that  if  I  bad 
a  thousand  worlds,  and  a  thousand  lives,  through  grace  assisting,  that 
dear  Lamb  of  God,  my  lest,  my,  eternal,  my  ody  &iend,  should  have 
all  devoted  to  his  service  and  glory.  O  pray  for  mc,  that  I  may  be 
more  extensively  useful  in  promoting  the  extension  of  his  kingdom  upon 
earth,  for  it  is  matter  of  unceasing  grief  that  I  have  done  so  little  for 
so  good  a  master.** 

For  several  years  the  chapel  continued  to  be  supplied  by  the 
students  from  Trevecca,  amongst  whom  we  find  the  names  of 
Green,  Hayes,  English,  Jones,  Merror,  Winkworth,  Newel,  and 
French.  The  congregation  having  increased,  it  was  determined 
in  1804,  that  this  chapel  should  be  taken  down,  and  a  more 
capacious  one  erected  on  its  site,  capable  of  containing  about  a 
thousand  persons.  It  was  opened  by  the  Rev.  John  Srown,  of 
Cheltenham.  Under  the  ministry  of  the  respected  pastor,  the 
Rev.  Edward  Lake,  the  Lord  "added  to  the  Church,"  and 
the  chapel  became  so  thronged  by  the  increasing  congregation, 
as  to  render  it  necessary  to  make  considerable  enlargement. 
On  the  completion  of  these  alterations,  in  1815,  the  chapel  was 
re-opened  by  the  Rev.  Rowland  Hill.  The  building,  which  is 
capable  of  containing  more  than  1,500  persons,  was  soon  well 
filled  by  an  overflowmg  congregation.  Attached  to  the  chapel 
are  Sunday  schools,  first  established  by  the  Rev.  Mr.  Harris, 
in  1791.  They  were  regulated  and  re-organized  in  1799,  by  the 
late  Rev.  Robert  Bradley,  of  Manchester ;  and  there  are  now  ten 
schools  in  the  city  and.  suburbs  belonging  to  the  chapel,  and 
nine  in  the  villages.  The  number  of  children  under  instruction 
is  about  twelve  hundred.  The  whole  of  the  teachers  act  gra- 
tuitously in  this  important  sphere  of  labour. 

Several  schools  m  the  western  part  of  the  county,  border- 
ing on  Herefordshire,  were  taught  and  supported  by  the  congre- 
gation at  Lady  Huntingdon's  chapel;  but  as  there  are  three 


SELINA,  OOUKTESS  OT  HUNTIKODON.  443 

chapels  now  erected,  whose  congregations  support  their  own 
schools,  they  are  not  numbered  among  the  children  of  her  Lady- 
ship's chapel  at  Worcester.  There  are  also  nine  stations  in  the 
country,  at  various  distances  from  the  city,  for  village  preaching, 
which  are  rendered  a  great  blessing  to  many,  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  having  evidently  accompanied  the  simple  declaration 
of  the  truths  of  the  everiasting  Gospel. 


CHAPTER  XXVI. 

CSiapel  at  BAt]i.i.Pope  the  Poet — Warburton,  Bishc^  of  01oucetter..Lady 

Fanny   Shiriej— Charles  Weslej^Jobn  Wesley — Beau  Nash— Anecdote 

Mr.  Herrey^Methodist  Conference— Mr.  Larwood — Potter,  Archbishop  of 
Canterbury — Dr.  Doddridge — Hon.    Mrs.    Scawen — Mr.    Cmttenden-^Mil 

Nea] — Dr.    Doddridge   risits  Bristol— visits   Lady  Huntingdon  at  Bath 

Anecdote-.Dr.  Oliver— Dr.  HarUey— Prior  Pariu-Death  of  Dr.  Doddridge 
— Mrs.  Grinfidd— The  Moravians— Count  Zinsendorff— Eliabeth  Ring- 
Lady  Gertrude  Hotham — Death  of  Miss  Hoduun — Marriage  of  Sir  Charles 
Hodiain— death  of  his  Lady — his  own  dcccawe  death  of  his  mothtr.  Lady 
Gertrude— Mr.  TheophiLus  Lindsay«.Mrs.  Brewer..— Lord  Huntingdoa  and 
Mr.  Grimshaw — Lord  Chesterfield  and  Mr.  Stanhope— Countess  of  Moira 
—Mrs.  Carteret  and  Mrs.  Cavendish— Countess  Ddits— Lady  Chesterfield 
— Eari  of  Bath— Lord  Cork— Anecdote  of  George  IL 

The  frequent  visits  of  Lady  Hundngdon  to  Bath,  during;  a 
period  of  twenty-five  vears  prior  to  the  opening  of  her  chapel  in 
that  city,  were  attencled  with  the  happiest  results.    Wherever 
she  went  she  invariably  produced  an  extraordinary  degree  of 
attention  to  religious  subjects.     Her  Ladyship's  character  *  was 
in  many  respects  new.     Fhere  was  a  publicity  in  her  religion 
which  no  other,  Dissenter,  Puritan,  Cnurchman,  or  Reformer, 
had  ever  displayed,  at  least  since  the  Reformation.     Wherever 
she  was,  and  in  whatever  company,  her  conversation  was  on  reli- 
gion, in  which  there  was  this  peculiarity,  that  she  spoke  of  the 
sins  and  errors  of  her  former  life,  her  conversion  to  God,  the 
alteration  in  her  heart  and  conduct ;  and  she  plainly  said  to  all, 
it  was  absolutely  necessary  that  the  same  change  should  take 
place  in  diem,  if  diey  would  have  any  hope  in  d^th.     What  an 

*  As  "  a  Methodist,**  in  the  usual  accepUtion  of  the  word,  that  is,  as  applied 
by  the  world  indiscriminately  to  religious  perMXiSy 


444  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

innumerable  multitude  will  have  abundant  cause  to  bless  God 
to  all  eternity  on  her  account,  as  the  honoured  instrument  in  his 
hands  of  leading  them  to  a  saving  acquaintance  with  the  truth 
as  it  is  in  Jesus.  The  means  on  which  she  chiefly  relied  in  this 
good  work  was  the  erecting  of  numerous  chapels,  where  the 
glad  tidings  of  a  free  and  full  salvation,  suited  to  the  wants  and 
necessities  of  the  ruined,  the  vilest,  and  most  abject  of  the 
human  race,  have  been,  and  still  continue  to  be,  faithfully  pro- 
claimed; whereby  many  outcasts  and  wanderers  have  been 
brought  back  to  the  fold  of  the  Great  Shepherd  and  Bishop  of 
Souls.  , 

Towards  the  close  of  the  year  J  739,  the  Earl  of  Huntingdon, 
who  had  been  much  indisposed  during  the  summer,  had  been 
recommended  to  use  the  Bath  waters.  One  of  his  friends,  the 
late  Mr.  Allen,  then  resided  at  Widcombe,  where  Pope  (the 
poet)  and  Dr.  Warburton  (afterwards  Bishop  of  Gloucester) 
were  on  a  visit.*  In  the  society  of  these  distinguished  menf 
Lady  Huntingdon  enjoyed  many  opportunities  of  advancing  the 
interests  of  true  religion,  which  she  uniformly  embraced  with 
all  the  ardour  of  a  newly-awakened  convert,  and  with  that  energy 
and  talent  which  she  so  remarkably  possessed.  The  bigoted 
and  intolerant  Warburton  took  every  occasion  to  rally  her  Lady- 
shin  on  her  newly-adopted  sentiments,  and,  with  his  charac- 
teristic rudeness,  pronounced  her  an  incurable  enthusiast ;  for 
with  him  all  personal  experience  of  a  divine  witness  by  the 
Spirit  of  God  in  the  heart  was  rank  enthusiasm  :  and  this  Lady 
Huntingdon  maintained  as  the  essence  of  truth  and  Christianity. 
She  pleaded  for  the  application  and  enjoyment  of  divine  truth 

*  See  Nichols^  Literary  Anecdotes. 

f  We  have  already  noticed  (^see  page  22)  the  intimacy  of  Lady  Huntingdon 
with  Lord  Bolingbroke,  and  from  her  frequent  visits  to  Twickenham,  where 
her  aunt.  Lady  Fanny  Shirley,  then  resided  (1),  her  early  acquaintance  with  Pope 
may  be  inferred. 

( 1 )  Lady  Fanny  Shirley,  the  aunt  of  Selina  Countess  of  Huntingdon,  had  a 
house  at  Twickenham,  very  near  the  residence  of  Pope.  Lady  Fanny  was  a 
reigning  beauty  of  the  Court  of  George  L     Pope*s  lines — 

"  Yes,  I  beheld  th'  Athenian  Queen 
Descend,  in  all  her  sober  charms,'* 

were  addressed  to  her  in  return  for  **  a  standish  and  two  pens.**  Lord  Chester- 
field's verses,  commencing 

*'  So  the  first  man  from  Paradise  was  driven,** 

were  also  %vritten  in  celebration  of  Lady  Fanny  Shirley.  To  her  were  addressed 
Hervey's  "  Thenm  and  Atpasia,'**  and  hi»  observations  on  Bolingbroke*s  "  Ukc 
and  Skufy  of  Hiitory.*'  Here  it  was  that  Lady  Huntingdon  became  intimate 
with  the  celebrated  men  of  the  day.  The  house  which  was  left  by  Lady  Fanny  to 
her  brother,  the  Hon.  G.  Shirley,  of  Eatington  Park,  Warwickshnre,  is  now  one 
of  the  residences  of  the  present  representative  of  that  branch  of  the  Shirley 
family,  Evelyn  John  Shirley,  Esq.,  M.P.  for  South  Warwickshire. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDOK.  445 

in  the  conscience  ;  Warburton  for  bishops,  priests,  and  deacons, 
and  the  two  sacraments  of  sacerdotal  administration,  as  essential 
to  the  being  of  a  Christian.  Through  life  this  singular  man 
was  strongly  prejudiced  against,  and  warmly  opposed  and  cen- 
sured botn  the  principles  and  people  that  Lady  Huntingdon 
honoured  and  respected,  and  on  numberless  occasions  roani* 
fested  an  undeviating  opposition,  contempt  of,  and  endeavour  to 
suppress,  what  he  was  pleased  to  style  Methodism,  which  he 
abhorred,  but  which  her  Ladyship  loved  and  vindicated — even 
that  true,  spiritual,  experimental  religion  that  is  really  felt  in 
the  heart,  and  acknowledged  to  be  the  work  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
illuminating,  converting,  and  comforting  the  chosen  people  of 
God. 

Mr.  Charles  Wesley  was  at  Bath,*  but  meeting  great  oppo- 
sition, preached  only  once  or  twice.  Lady  Huntingdon,  how- 
ever, attended  his  preaching  at  Bristol,  Bradford,  and  other 

*  When  Mr.  John  Wesley  was  preaching  at  Bath,  some  time  before  the  coming 
of  Charles,  Beau  Nash  entered  the  room,  and  approaching  the  preacher,  de- 
manded by  what  authority  he  was  acting  ?  Mr.  Wesley  answered,  '*  By  that  of 
Jesus  Chnst,  conveyed  to  me  by  the  present  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  when 
he  laid  his  hands  upon  me  and  said — take  thou  authority  to  preach  the  UospelP* 
Nosh  then  affirmed  that  he  was  acting  contrary  to  law.  *'  Besides  (saia  he) 
your  preaching  frightens  people  out  of  Uieir  wits."  '*  Sir  (replied  Mr.  Wesley) 
did  you  ever  hear  me  preach?"  "No,"  said  the  Master  of  the  Ceremonies. 
"  How  then  can  you  judge  of  what  you  never  heard  ?"  "  By  common  report'* 
(replied  Nash).  **  Sir  (said  Mr.  Wesley),  is  not  your  name  Nash  ?  I  dare  not 
judge  of  you  by  common  report.**  Nasn,  finding  himself  a  very  different  person 
in  the  meeting-house  from  what  he  was  in  the  pump-room,  thought  it  best  to 
withdraw. 

Nash  sometimes  conversed  with  Lady  Huntingdon  on  religious  subjects,  and 
was  once  prevailed  on  to  hear  Mr.  Whitefield  at  her  house.  Beau  Nash  was 
congratulated  on  his  conversion  by  his  gay  associates,  who  failed  not  to  rally 
him  on  his  turning  Methodist,  verses  were  written  on  her  Ladyship  and  Mr. 
Nash,  which  were  &tened  to  the  walls  of  the  pump-room  and  assembly-room ; 
and  printed  notices  were  circulated  in  every  direction,  one  of  which  was  shown 
to  the  writer  many  years  ogoby  Dr.  Haweis,  stating  that'*  the  Countess  of  Hunt- 
ingdon, attended  by  some  saintly  sister,  purposed  preaching  at  the  pump-room 
the  following  morning,  and  that  Mr.  Nash,  henceforth  to  be  known  as  the  Me9% 
Richard  JVoiK,"  was  expected  to  preach  in  the  evening  at  the  assembly-room* 
It  was  hoped  that  theaudience  would  be  numerous,  as  a  collection  was  intended 
for  the  late  Master  of  the  Ceremonies,  who  was  retiring  from  office.  This 
profane  r^lery  never  discomposed  the  Countess,  but  gave  great  offence  to  Mr, 
Nash ;  and  no  inducement  could  ever  after  prevail  upon  him  to  go  to  Lady 
Huntingdon's  house. 

This  man  of  pleasure  died  as  he  lived —  a  monument  of  irreligion,  folly, 
and  vice,  in  the  year  1761,  a^ed  87 !  He  dreaded  the  approach  of  death  more 
than  the  generality  of  mankind ;  and  sought  refuge  in  some  fancied  devotion 
while  it  threatened  him.  Though  a  complete  libertine  in  practice,  none 
trembled  more  than  he  did.  To  embitter  his  hopes,  he  found  himself  at  last 
abandoned  by  the  great,  whom  he  had  long  endeavoured  to  flatter  and  to  serve, 
and  was  obliged  to  tly  for  protection  to  those  of  humbler  station,  whom  he  had 
once  affected  to  despise.  The  corporation  of  Bath  allowed  him  a  scanty  pittance, 
which  saved  this  miserable  trifler  firom  starvation  in  bis  last  days. 


446  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

places,  where  he  was  heard  by  thousands.  The  ridicule  of  War- 
burton  was  ever  ready  to  encounter  her  Ladyship  on  her  return 
from  these  excursions. 

In  the  year  1745  the  second  Methodist  Conference  was  held 
in  Bristol.  Besides  Messrs.  John  and  Charles  Wesley,  there 
were  present  the  Rev.  John  Hodges,  rector  of  Wenvo,  and 
seven  travelling  preachers:  Thomas  Richards,  Samuel  Lar- 
wood,*  Thomas  Meyrick,  James  Wheatley,f  Richard  Moss, 
John  Slocombe,^  and  Herbert  Jenkins.§  Lady  Huntingdon 
vras  then  at  Clifton,  and  formed  an  acquaintance  with  several 
of  these  apostolic  labourers,  some  of  whom,  particularly  Messrs. 
Richards,  Meyrick,  and  Moss,  she  invitea  to  Bath,  whither 
she  went  for  a  short  period.  The  preaching  of  these  men  of 
God  was  attended  by  a  divine  power,  and  many  in  the  mid- 
dling and  inferior  classes  of  socie^,  as  well  as  some  in  the  more 
refined  circles,  became  the  "  seals  of  their  apostleship  in  the 
Lord."  II 

In  1747  Lady  Huntingdon  again  visited  Bath  for  the  benefit 
of  her  health.  Previous  to  her  Ladyship  leaving  London  she 
called  on  Dr.  Potter,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury ;  and  as  he  was 

^*  Mr.  Larwood  withdrew  from  Mr.  Wesley's  connexion  about  tbe  rear  1753* 
at  which  time  four  others  left  the  itinerant  plan,  and  established  independent 
oongregationB  in  different  parts  of  the  kingdom.  Mr.  Larwood  took  an  old 
Presbyterian  chapel  in  the  borough  of  Southwark,  called  Zoar,  where  he  con. 
tinued  to  preach  till  God  called  hun  hence,  by  a  fever,  in  NoFember,  1750. 

f  Of  this  gentleman,  so  distinguished  for  his  zeal  and  imprudences  during 
the  early  struggles  of  Methodism,  an  ample  account  will  be  found  in  the  history 
of  the  Tabernacle  at  Norwich. 

^  Of  this  zealous  itinerant  Mr.  Wesley  says — "  He  was  an  old  labourer,  worn 
out  in  the  service  of  his  Blaster.*'  He  finished  his  course  at  Clones,  in  Ireland, 
in  the  year  1777. 

$  Herbert  Jenkins  joined  Mr.  Wesley's  society  in  17iS,  and  itinerated  for 
some  years  in  that  connexion,  with  great  zeal  and  success.  He  afterwards 
joined  Mr.  Whitefield,  and  laboured  in  conjunction  with  Mr.  Cennick,  Mr. 
Adams,  Mr.  Godwin,  &c.,  in  the  Tabernacle  connexion.  He  preached  frequently 
for  Mr.  Kinsir  an,  at  Plymouth,  by  whom  he  was  highly  esteemed.  He  also 
laboured  much  in  Wales ;  but  when  or  where  he  finished  his  course  we  have 
not  been  able  to  learn. 

J  I  Mr.  Richards  afterwards  left  Mr.  Wesley's  society,  and  obtained  episcopal 
ination  through  the  interest  of  Lady  Huntingdon.  Mr.  Meyrick,  who 
preached  more  frequently  than  the  others  at  her  Ladyship's  residence,  was  a 
native  of  Cornwall,  and  brought  up  and  educated  for  the  law.  He  was  remark, 
ably  zealous  in  proi>agating  divine  truth,  and  endured  great  persecutions  in 
various  parts  of  the  kingdom.  Having  obtained  epi»:copaI  ordination,  through 
the  intervention  of  Lady  Huntingdon,  he  became  curate  of  a  small  chapel  in 
the  parish  of  Halifax,  in  Yorkshire.  A  short  time  before  his  death  he  was 
made  afternoon  lecturer  of  the  parish  church  of  Halifax  ;  and  there  he  ended 
his  days  about  the  year  1770.  Mr.  Moss  resided  for  some  time  with  her  liady. 
ship,  who  had  a  very  sincere  friendship  for  him,  and  showed  him  many  acts  of 
kindness.  He  was  afterwards  ordained  bv  the  Bishou  of  London,  as  a  mission- 
arr  for  ^e  Island  of  Providence,  one  of  the  Bahama  Islands  in  the  West  Indies, 
where  he  preached  the  Gospel  for  several  years,  in  company  with  Mr.  Tizzard, 
his  fdlow-labourer. 


SELINA,  OOUKTI88  OF  HUKTIKODON.  447 

then  in  his  seventy-fifth  year,  and  in  a  declining  state,  her  Lady- 
ship, with  the  utmost  tenderness  and  fidelity,  spoke  of  the  near 
approach  of  that  last  solemn  event  which  would  terminate  all 
earthly  friendships.  He  appeared  sensibly  affected,  and  at  part- 
ing, took  her  Ladyship's  hand,  and  said  with  great  earnestness, 
^<  May  the  Lord  God  of  Abrahim,  of  Isaac,  and  of  Jacob  bless 
thee !"  For  many  years  she  enjoyed  the  fiiendship  of  this 
learned  divine,  who  succeeded  Dr.  Wake  in  the  see  of  Canter- 
bury, which  high  and  important  office  he  supported  with  much 
dignity  for  a  period  of  ten  years.  When  Bishop  of  Oxford  he 
had  an  opportunity  of  witnessing  the  rise  of  Methodism  in  the 
University;  and  afterwards  ordained  the  Messrs.  Wesley 
Ingham,  Hervey,  Broughton,  Clayton,  Kinchin,  &c.,  the  first 
members  of  that  society.  On  one  occasion  he  treated  Mr. 
Charles  Wesley  with  great  severity;  but  towards  the  close  of  life 
his  sentiments  respecting  the  Methodists  seem  to  have  under 

Sine  a  more  favourable  cnange.  His  long  intima^  with  Lady 
untingdon  may  have  contributed  to  this  end.  On  the  death 
of  Lord  Huntingdon,  he  visited  her  frequently,  and  always  treated 
her  with  parental  tenderness.  Not  long  after  her  Ladyship 
left  London  for  Bath,  his  grace  was  seized  with  an  alarming 
illness,  from  which  he  never  entirely  recovered.  The  last  act 
of  his  life  was  writing  the  following  note  to  her  Ladyship,  on 
the  10th  of  October,  1747  :— 

'*  Dear  Madam, — I  have  been  verv  ill  since  I  last  saw  you.  I  hope 
soon  to  hear  from  you,  that  your  health  is  better  for  your  being  at  Bath. 
Continue  to  pray  for  mo  until  we  meet  in  that  place  where  our  joy 
shall  be  complete.     I  am,  as  ever,  your  affectionate  friend, 

'*JoHii  Cantuar." 

After  his  Grace  had  written  the  above,  he  was  walking  with  it 
to  his  scrutoire,  and  (as  his  son,  Mr.  Potter,  acquainted  Lady 
Huntingdon),  being  seized  with  a  sudden  syncope,  dropped  upon 
the  floor,  and  expired  with  the  letter  in  his  hand  ! 

Lady  Huntingdon  was  again  in  Bath  in  1750.  At  this  period 
she  was  extremely  ill,  and  serious  apprehensions  were  entertained 
for  her  life.  At  the  close  of  a  letter  from  Mr.  Hervey  to  the 
Rev.  Moses  Browne,  afterwards  vicar  of  Olney,  dated  December 
22,  1750,  he  enquires  : — 

^  What  account  can  you  give  of  Lady  Huntingdon's  health  ? 
Never,  never  will  the  physician's  skill  be  employed  for  the  lengtliening 
of  a  more  valuable  life.  May  Almighty  gooaness  bless  those  prescrip- 
tions, and  command  her  constitution  and  our  zeal  to  flourish." 

Dr.  Doddridge,  in  a  letter  to  his  correspondent,  $he  Rev.  Mr. 


448  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

Wood,  of  Norwich,  dated  about  the  same  time,  says  : — "  Dear 
Lady  Huntingdon  is  in  a  very  declining  way.  Pray  devoutly  for 
her  important  life."*  From  a  letter  written  by  the  Duchess  of 
Somerset,  better  known  to  the  world  as  the  Countess  of  Hert- 
ford, to  the  Rev.  Theophilus  Lindsay,  dated  Percy  Lodge,  July 
9th,  1751,  we  learn  that  Lady  Huntingdon's  health,  had  by 
that  time  considerably  improved : — "  I  have  had  no  letter  from 
Lady  Huntingdon  (says  the  Duchess),  but  I  hear  she  is  at  Chel- 
tenham, and  pretty  well."  In  a  subsequent  letter  from  the 
Duchess  of  Somerset  we  find  Lady  Huntingdon  had  returned 
to  Bath  in  the  month  of  August,  or  beginning  of  September. 
Her  Grace  writes : — 

"  I  Lave  Lad  a  very  agreeable  letter  last  week  from  Dr.  Oliver,  wLo 
tells  me  that  Lady  Huntingdon  is  pretty  well,  and  mucL  employed  in 
attending  Dr.  Doddridge,  who  is  in  a  deep  consumption  at  BatL,  but  is 
to  set  out  in  a  few  days,  in  order  to  embark  at  Falmouth,  for  Lisbon^ 
from  wLence,  it  is  Dr.  Oliver's  opinion,  Le  will  never  return  *t 

The  consumptive  disease  under  which  Dr.  Doddridge  had 
lon^  suffered,  now  began  to  make  more  rapid  progress.  His 
health  declined  so  fast  that  his  excellent  ))hysician.  Dr.  Ston- 
house,}:  recommended  him  a  voyage  to  Lisbon.  He  had  been 
at  Shrewsbury  for  some  time,  for  the  benefit  of  air,  exercise,  and 
an  entire  cessation  from  business  and  company.  From  thence 
he  proceeded  to  Bristol,  where  he  remained  several  weeks, 
during  which  period  he  received  numerous  letters  of  condolence 
from  his  friends,  filled  with  anxious  enquiries  after  the  state  of 
his  health.  The  letters  of  Ladv  Huntingrdon,  the  Honourable 
Mrs.  Scawen5§  Robert   Cruttonden,  Esq,,!]    Nathaniel  Neale, 

•  Letters  to  and  from  Dr.  Doddridge,  edited  by  the  Rev.  Thomas  Stedman, 
vicar  of  St.  Chad's,  Shrewsbury. 

f  Belsham*8  Life  of  Lindsay. 

\  Afterwards  the  Rev.  Sir  James  Stonhousc.  Bart,  rector  of  Great  and  Little 
Cheveril,  Wiltshire,  the  friend  and  correspondent  of  Lady  Huntingdon,  ^^'hite- 
field,  &c. 

5  Mrs.  Scawcn  was  the  only  daughter  of  Lord  James  Russel,  fifth  son  of 
William,  first  Duke  of  Bedford,  and  niece  of  the  celebrated  Lady  Rachel 
Russcl,  whose  piety,  yirtue,  and  conjugal  aifection  have  immortalized  her 
memory.  Mrs.  Scawea  was  introduced  to  the  notice  of  Lady  Huntingdon  by 
Dr.  Doddridge,  at  a  season  of  parental  bereavement,  when,  in  almost  hopeless 
anguish,  she  was  lamenting  the  loss  of  a  child.  The  consolatory  letters  of  Lady 
Huntingdon  and  Dr.  Doddridge  were  of  singular  service,  in  leading  her  to  more 
correct  views  of  God,  and  the  designs  of  Providence,  in  his  afflicting  dispen- 
sations. 

P  This  gentleman  was  the  very  particular  friend  of  Lady  Huntingdon,  Mr. 
Whitefield,  and  Mr.  Hervey.  He  was  nephew  to  the  Rev.  Robert  Bragge, 
mmistcr  of  an  Indenendent  congregation,  in  Lime-street,  London.  He  was 
educated  for,  and  called  to  the  ministry,  and  preached  frequently  in  his  uncle's 
pulpit.     FindiDg,  however,  that  his  conscience  would  not  permit  him  to  believe 


SELIKi^  COUNTEdS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  449 

Esq.,*  and  Lord  Lyttleton,  were  peculiarly  interesting  and  affec- 
tionate, from  the  friendship  expressed  in  them,  and  the  divine 
consolations  which  they  administered. 

The  worthy  doctor  hesitated  to  take  the  journey  to  Portugal, 
lest  the  necessary  expense  should  injure  his  family,  but  L^dv 
Huntingdon,  with  that  noble  generosity  which  so  (ustinguished 
her  character,  contributed  the  sum  of  one  hundred  pounds :  but 
her  liberality  did  not  stop  here,  for  with  the  assistance  of  Lady 
Chesterfield,  Lady  Fanny  Shirley,  Lord  Lyttleton,  Lord  Bath, 
and  a  few  others  amongst  the  nobility,  she  gathered  a  sum  of 
about  three  hundred  pounds,  which  she  placed  in  the  hands  of 
Mrs.  Doddridge : — 

^'  Words  (says  her  Ladyship)  cannot  express  the  gratitude  and 
thankfulness  with  which  dear  Mrs.  Doddridge  accepied  the  coutri- 
butioDS  which  I  was  enabled  to  coUect.  I  felt  grateful  to  God,  that  be 
enabled  me  thus,  in  a  trifling  degree,  to  administer  to  the  external  com- 
fort of  one  of  his  dear  servants.  Less  than  the  least,  I  feel  humbled 
before  him  for  this  instance  of  his  goodness,  in  making  me  instrumental 
of  any  benefit  to  the  saints  that  are  upon  the  earth.  The  Lord  dis- 
posed my  heart  to  add  one  hundred  pounds  to  the  benefactions  of  dear 
Lady  Chesterfield,  Lady  Fanny,  Lord  Lyttleton,  and  Lord  Bath,  making 
a  total  of  nearly  three  hundred  ;  which,  with  that  Mr.  Ncale  and  his 
friends  amongst  the  Dissenters  may  collect,  will,  I  hope,  be  of  es- 
sential service  in  procuring  him  every  comfort  which  his  almost  helpless 
state  requires." 

Accordingly  on  the  17th  of  September,  Dr.  Doddridge  left 
Bristol,  and,  on  his  arrival  in  Bath,  became  the  pniost  of  Lady 
Huntingdon,  until  the  period  of  his  departure  for  Falmouth. 

the  truths  which  he  from  time  to  time  delivered  from  the  pulpit,  he  had  the 
honesty  to  desist  from  preaching,  and,  in  process  of  time,  was  chosen  the  Lord 
Mayor's  Common  Hunt,  a  place  of  considerable  profit  He  possessed  a  large 
fortune,  a  considerable  portion  of  which  he  lost  in  the  South- Sea  Bubble.  In 
the  52nd  year  of  his  age  the  Lord  was  pleased  to  pluck  him  as  a  firebrand  out 
of  the  burning,  under  the  powerful  ministry  of  Mr.  Cennick  ;  in  what  manner 
he  himself  informs  us,  in  the  narrative  of  his  experience,  delivered  before  Mr. 
Richardson's  church,  at  the  time  of  his  being  admitted  a  member,  June  4. 
17-13,  and  afterwards  published,  with  a  recommendation  by  Mr.  Whitefield, 
He  survived  his  conversion  upvi-ards  of  twenty  years,  and  during  that  time  bore 
a  noble  testimony  to  the  truth  and  power  of  religion.  He  died  happily,  June 
23,  1763,  aged  73.  When  writing  to  Mr.  Keene,  Mr.  Whitefield  speiUcs  thus 
of  his  death :  "  Mr.  Cruttenden,  I  find,  is  gone.  God  be  praised  that  he 
went  off  so  comfortably  1  May  our  expiring  hour  be  like  his  P — See  WkUe- 
fiddit  Letters,  BfrnnCg  Lift  ofHervegt  osnd  Porter's  Sermom  <m  the  Death  of  Mr, 
Cruttenden, 

•  This  gentleman  was  the  son  of  the  Rer.  Dr.  Neale,  who,  as  a  historian, 
has  obtained  considerable  celebrity.  Hif  son,  BIr.  Nathaniel  Neale,  was  an 
eminent  attorney,  and  secretary  to  the  Million  Bank.  His  mother  was  a  sister  of 
the  learned  Dr.  Nathaniel  Lardner.  He  was  idso  secretary  of  Coward^ 
trustees,  and  wrote  some  insolent  letter  to  Dr.  Doddridge,  on  account  of  his 
liberality  towards  the  Metbo^sts. 


450  THI  LIFK  AND  TIMES  OP 

In  the  morning  of  the  day  on  which  he  set  out  from  Bath  to 
Falmouth,  Lady  Huntingdon  came  into  the  room,  and  found  him 
weeping  over  that  passage  in  Daniel,  ix.  11,  19,  ^^  Daniel,  a 
man  greatly  beloved,"  &c.  *^  You  are  in  tears,  Sir,'*  said  Lady 
Huntingdon,  *'  I  am  weeping,  Madam,  (answered  the  Doctor,) 
but  they  are  tears  of  comfort  and  ioy ;  I  can  give  up  my  country, 
my  relations,  my  firiends,  into  the  hands  of  God :  and,  as  to 
myself,  I  can  as  well  go  to  Heaven  from  Lisbon,  as  from  my 
own  study  at  Northampton." 

Dr.  Oliver,  Mr.  Allen,  Pope,  and  Dr.  Warburton,  testified 
their  regard  for  Dr.  Doddridge  at  this  period.  Between  War- 
burton  and  Doddridge  long  and  intimate  friendship  existed,  and 
much  of  the  correspondence  between  them  has  been  preserved 
in  Nichols's  ^*  Literary  Anecdotes,"  and  the  ^^  Diary  and  Cor- 
tepondence  of  Dr.  Doddridge,"  lately  published.  In  the  last 
letter  which  he  wrote,  that  worthy  and  amiable  man,  whilst  at 
the  Hot-wells,  for  the  benefit  of  the  waters,  says  : — 

''  Your  kind  letter  gave  me,  and  will  give  Mr.  Allen,*  great  concern  ; 
but  for  ourselves,  and  not  for  you,  death,  whenever  it  happens,  in  a  life 
spent  like  yours,  is  to  be  envied,  not  pitied  ;  and  you  will  Lave  the 
prayers  of  your  friends,  as  conquerors  have  the  sliouts  of  the  crowd. 
God  preserve  you,  if  he  continues  you  here  to  go  on  in  his  service ;  if 
he  takes  you  to  himself,  to  be  crowned  with  glory,  be  assured  the 
memory  of  our  friendship,  will  be  as  durable  as  my  life." 

Warburton  vbited  Lady  Huntingdon  while  Dr.  Doddridge 
was  her  guest,  and  in  the  presence  of  Dr.  Oliver  and  Dr.  Hart- 
ley, author  of  "  Observations  on  Man^^  rated  her  Ladyship  and 
Doddridge  about  enthusiasm.  On  another  occasion,  when  Lady 
Huntingdon  dined  at  Prior  Park,  the  subject  of  conversation 
happening  to  turn  on  Mr.  Whitefield,  who  had  just  then  em- 
barked for  America,  Dr.  Hartleyf  spoke  of  his  abilities  with  ad- 
miration, and  of  his  doctrines  with  respect.  ^'  Of  his  oratorical 
powers  (said  Warburton),  and  their  astonishing  influence  on  the 
minds  of  thousands,  there  can  be  no  doubt — they  are  of  a  high 

*  Pope*s  introducinff^  Warburton  to  Mr.  Allen  led  to  his  marriage  with  Miss 
Gertrude  Tucker.  The  splendd  seat  of  Mr.  Allen,  Prior  PUk,  immediately 
became  the  residence,  and  afterwards  the  propertT,  of  Warburton. 

f  Dr.  Hartlej  was  a  man  of  genius,  and  had  a  wide  acquaintance  with  books, 
and  a  mind  actire  and  adventuroua,  eager  to  pursue  knowledge,  and  attentire 
to  retain  it ;  alwm  inrestigating,  alwajs  aspiring ;  and  therefore  not  eaailj 
silenced  by  the  violence  an-l  arrogance  of  Warburton.  He  received  hia academical 
education  at  Jesus*  CoUege,  Cambridge,  where  be  took  his  degree  of  A.  M. ,  being 
intended  for  the  Church,  but  having  some  scruples  about  sobscribiAg  to  the 
Thirty-nine  Articles,  turned  his  attentton  to  the  study  of  physic.  He  settled  for 
some  time  in  London,  from  whence  he  removed  to  Bath,  where  he  practised 
with  great  reputation  till  his  death,  Augast  28, 1757,  leaving  two  sons  and  a 
dMighter.— <^  Bardty'i  Life,  byhUmm^whow^ML  P.Jor  HO,  1766. 


8ELINA,  G0UNTS8S  OF  HUNTINGDON.  451 

order;  but  with  respect  to  his  doctrines,  I  consider  them  per-* 
nicious  and  fake."  A  very  animated  and  interesting  debate  took 
vlacBy  in  the  course  of  which  Dr.  Hartley  ably  defended  Mr. 
VVhitefield  against  the  unjustifiable  aspersions  of  his  unreason- 
able antagonist,  and  proved  the  uniformity  of  his  doctrines  with 
the  articles  and  formularies  of  the  Established  Church,  and  their 
accordance  with  the  Confessions  of  Faith  of  all  the  Reformed 
Churches  in  Christendom.  In  this  sentiment  Lady  Hunting- 
don, Dr.  Oliver,*  and  Mr.  Allen  concurred.  Warburtoa's 
irascibility  and  unappeasable  malignity  to  what  he  denominated 
Methodism  could  not  endure  this,  and  he  hastily  left  the  apart- 
ment. 

On  the  90th  of  September  Dr.  Doddridge  embarked  at  Fal- 
mouth, and  landed  at  Lisbon  on  the  13th  of  October.  A  few 
days  after  his  departure  from  Bath,  Lady  Huntingdon  writes 
thus  concerning  him : — 

**•  Out  dear  and  mncb-loved  Doddridge  has  left  at  for  Lisb<ni,  and 
left  us  without  the  shadow  of  a  hope  of  meeting  again  on  this  side 
eternity.  May  the  Qod  and  Father  of  onr  Lord  Jesnt  Christ  go  with 
him,  and  abide  with  him  to  bis  journey  a  end :  and  give  him  at  last  m 
triumphant  entrance  into  his  kingdom  of  eternal  rest  and  glory,  re- 
served for  the  people  of  his  choice,  the  objects  of  his  redeeming  love 
and  boundless  mercy  T 

*  This  cmingat  physidaa,  so  celebnited  in  hb  d^,  had  long  raided  at  Batb« 
where  he  had  grau  pnctice^  and  acquired  a  large  iortuae,  Althou^  he  had 
long  been  intimate  with  Ladjr  Huntingdon,  and  Dr.  Stonhouse,  alter  hit  con- 
rersion  to  ChiiBtianitj,  yet  he  remain^  a  most  inreterate  infidel  till  a  short 
time  before  his  death.  In  his  last  illness  the  arrows  of  conriction  stuck  £ut 
in  him.  Ladj  Huntingdon  said  she  nerer  saw  a  personr  more  thoroughly  hum- 
bled, distressed,  and  broken  in  heart.  Visiting  him  a  f«w  days  before  he  died, 
he  lamented  not  only  hia  own  nast  infidelity,  but  the  seal  and  success  with 
which  he  had  endeafoured  inUct  the  minds  of  othenk  *'  O  that  I  eoold 
ondo  the  mischief  I  hare  done !  I  was  more  ardent,**  said  he, "  to  poison  people 
with  the  principles  of  irreligion  and  unbelief^  than  almost  any  Christian  can  be 
to  spnead  the  doctrines  of  Christ  P  **  Cheer  up  !**  answered  Lady  Huntingdon, 
**  Jesus,  the  great  sacrifice  for  sin,  stoned  for  the  sins  of  die  second  taUa  aa 
well  as  for  those  of  the  first.**  *^  God,**  replied  he,  **  certunly  can,  bat  I  foar 
he  nerer  will,  pardon,  such  a  wretch  as  L'*  **  You  may  foar  it  at  present,**  tp- 
ioined  her  Ladyship,  **  but  you  and  I  shall  most  certainly  meet  each  other  in 
heaven.**  The  Doctor  then  nid,  **  O  woman  !  great  is  thy  fiuth !  my  faith  can- 
not beliere  that  I  shall  ever  be  there.'* 

Soon  after,  the  Lord  lifted  up  the  light  of  his  countenance  vpon  Dr.  Oliver^ 
soul,  and  he  ky  ^e  rest  of  his  time  tnmnphing  and  pausing  God  for  llie  ftaa 
grace  he  had  bestowed  upon  him. 

Dr.  Oliver's  second  daughter,  Charlotte,  married  Sr  John  Prinze,  Bart^  a 
cdebiated  physicum,  philosopher,  and  president  of  the  Ropl  Society.  Bi 
fovoured  the  public  wnh  many  usefol  works,  some  of  which  are  translated  fatB 
several  of  the  European  languages.  On  the  accession  of  George  the  Third, 
Sir  John  Priogie  was  appointed  Physician  to  the  Queen's  household.  For 
many  years  he  constantly  attended  Lady  Huntingdon,  and  entertained  a  high 
veneration  for  her  Ladyship.  He  dicdgrtatly  belovedand  respectiidy.  Jb&.  IS^TttL 


4^2  TH£  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

Of  the  serene  and  happy  state  of  the  Doctor's  mind,  in  the 
prospect  of  approaching  dissolution,  the  following  extract  from 
one  of  his  letters,  written  during  this  solemn  season,  is  a  charac- 
teristic and  instructive  proof: — 

r  *'  I  sec,  indeed,  no  hope  of  'recovery,  yet  my  heart  rejoieeth  in  my 
Gknl  and  in  my  Saviour ;  and  I  can  call  Him  under  this  failure  of 
every  thing  else  iU  ttren^  and  everlasting  portion.  I  must  now 
thank  you  for  your  hearb-reviving  letter  to  strengthen  my  fiuth,  to 
comfort  my  soiD,  and  assist  me  in  srcaUowing  up  death  in  victory  I 
God  hath,  indeed,  been  wonderfully  good  to  me ;  but  I  am  less  than 
the  least  of  his  mercies,  less  than  the  least  hope  of  his  children. 
Adored  be  his  grace  for  whatever  it  hath  wrought  by  me ;  and  blessed 
be  you  of  the  Lord  for  the  strong  consolations  you  have  been  the 
instrument  of  administering ;  let  me  desire  you  to  write  again,  and  to 
pour  out  your  heart  freely  with  all  its  strong  cordial  sentiments  of 
Christianity ;  nothing  %vill  give  me  greater  joy.  What  a  friend  you  will 
be  in  heaven !  How  glad  shall  I  be  to  welcome  you  there,  after  a 
long  and  glorious  course  of  service,  to  increase  the  lustre  of  your 
crown !  May  you  long  shine  with  your  hght,  warmth,  and  influence, 
hke  a  sun  upon  the  earth,  when  there  remains  not  any  united  particles 
of  that  poor,  wasting,  sinking  firamc,  which  enables  this  inmiortal 
spirit  to  call  itself  your  friend  in  everlasting  bonds.*' 

The  melancholy  intelligence  of  his  death  was  conmiunicated 
by  Dr.  Stonhouse  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  than  whom,  in  the  ex- 
tensive circle  of  his  acquaintance,  lew  had  a  warmer  friendship 
for  the  Doctor,  or  more  sincerely  mourned  his  removal  in  the 
height  of  vigour,  usefulness,  and  honour: — 

**  The  death  of  my  dear  lamented  Doddridge  has  affected  my  heart 
in  a  very  uncommon  manner,  and  I  am  often  melted  into  tears  when  I 
reflect  upon  his  unspeakable  loss  to  the  Church  and  the  world.  But 
all  my  murmuring  arc  silenced  by  the  voice  of  Him^  in  whose  hands 
are  the  issues  of  life  and  death,  and  who  hatli  said — Shall  I  not  do 
what  I  will  with  my  own  ?  With  my  hand  on  my  mouth,  and  my 
mouth  in  the  dust,  I  desire  to  acquiesce  in  this  divine  prerogative  to 
take  and  leave  as  seemcth  good  to  him,  crying  from  my  heart,  Thy 
righteous  will  be  done  /" 

The  remains  of  Dr.  Doddridge  were  interred  in  the  burying 
ground  belonging  to  the  British  Factory  at  Lisbon ;  and  a 
handsome  monument  was  afterwards  erected  to  his  memory  at 
Northampton,  at  the  expense  of  the  congregation,  ancf  an 
epitaph  inscribed  upon  it,  drawn  up  by  his  much  esteemed 
friend,  Gilbert  West,  Esq.,  Clerk  of  the  Privj  Council,  and 
nephew  of  Lord  Viscount  Cobham. 

The  latter  end  of  May,  1752,  found  Lady  Huntingdon 
again  at  Bath. 


SELIXA,    COUNTESS   OP   HUXTINGDOX.  453 

"  May  the  i^^aters  (writes  Mr.  Whitefield)  be  abunc'antl y  blessed  to 
tbe  restoring  of  your  bodily  healtb,  and  may  the  comforts  of  the  ever- 
living,  ever-lovely  Jesus  fill  and  refresh  your  soul !  I  hope  to  see 
your  Ladyship  about  the  24th  of  this  montli.  Next  week,  God  will- 
ing, I  go  to  Portsmouth,  and  from  thence  to  Bath.  My  body  is  much 
enfeebled,  but  the  joy  of  the  Lord  is  my  strength.  Hoping  shortly  to 
see  your  Ladphip  prospering,  both  in  soul  and  body,  and  begging  a 
continual  interest  in  your  Ladyship*s  prayers,  I  subscribe  myself^'*&c. 

On  the  22nd  of  June  Mr.  Whitefield  arrived  in  Bath,  and 
continued  with  Lady  Huntingdon  about  three  weeks,  preaching 
every  evening  to  great  numbers  of  the  nobility.  Here  he  first 
became  acquaint^  with  the  late  Mrs.  Grinneld,*  a  lady  who 
attended  on  Queen  Caroline : — "  One  of  Caesar's  household 
(writes  Mr.  Whitefield)  hath  been  lately  awakened  through  her 
Ladyship's  instrumentality,  and  I  hope  others  will  meet  with  the 
like  blessing." 

The  dangerous  illness  of  Mrs.  Charles  Wesley  obliging  Lady 
Huntingdon  to  remove  to  Bristol,  Mrs.  Grinfield  returned  to 
London  to  attend  her  duties  at  Court,  and  Mr.  Whitefield  to  his 
usual  occupation.     In  a  few  days  he  writes  thus : — 

"Yesterday  morning  I  obeyed  vour  Ladyship's  commands,  and 
carried  tbe  enclosed  to  Mrs.  Grinfield,  at  St  James's  Palace.  I  was 
much  satisfied  with  my  visit,  and  am  rejoiced  to  find  that  she  seems 
resolved  to  show  out  at  once.  The  Court,  I  believe,  rings  of  her,  and 
if  she  stands,  I  trust  she  will  make  a  glorious  martirr  for  her  blessed 
Lord." 

In  another  letter,  he  says : — 

^  Till  Mrs.  Grinfield  can  meet  with  company  that  is  really  in  earnest, 
I  think  the  closer  she  keeps  to  her  God  and  her  book  the  better.  Tho 
Lord^strengthen,  stablish,  and  settle  her  in  his  ways  and  will !" 

Now  was  the  period  of  the  Moravian  controversy,  to  which 
we  have  alluded,  and  the  result  of  which  was  to  draw  Mrs.  Grin- 
field,f  with  Mr.  Cennick  and  others,  over  to  the  Church  of  the 
United  Brethren. 

Mr.  Whitefield  wrote  his  remonstrance  to  the  Count  Bishop 

*  Aunt  of  the  late  General  Grinfield  and  the  Rev.  Thomas  Grinfield,  of 
Kensington,  who  espoused  Anne,  daughter  of  Joseph  Forster,  Esq,,  youngest  son 
of  Colonel  John  Forster,  of  the  Island  of  Jamaica,  who  afterwards  assumed  the 
surname  of  IVarham. 

f  But  Mrs.  Grinfield  continued  her  intimacy  with  Lady  Huntingdon  and 
her  friendship  for  Mr.  Whitefield,  and  when  the  Tabernacle-house  at  Bristol 
was  without  a  senimt,  she  lent  her  own,  Mrs.  Elizabeth  King,  for  that  purpose. 
This  respectable  woman  afterwards  kept  the  Tabemacle-house  in  Liondon,  and 
found  at  last  shelter  in  the  house  of  tne  Rev.  Dr.  \^nter,  enjoying  a  pension 
for  her  sendees,  and  blessed  with  tbe  means  of  grace  as  long  as  she  could  use 
them. 

VOL  I. — r  F 


454  THE  LIFE  AND  TIBIES  OF 

of  the  United  Church  in  England,  and  the  Countess  of  Hun- 
tingdon's part  in  the  affair  mav  be  related  in  her  own  words. 
Count  Zinzendorff*  paid  her  Ladyship  a  visit  and  was  received 
with  the  hospitidity,  dignity,  and  politeness  due  to  a  person  of 
high  distinction.  Her  Ladvship,  witii  mii^gled  tenderness  and 
fideUty,  remonstrated  with  tlie  Count  on  the  farrago  of  super- 
stitious fopperies  and  shocking  offences  introduced  by  the  lead- 
ing brethren  in  London  and  other  places,  whereby  hundreds  of 
honest-hearted  Cliristians  were  deluded  and  involved  in  un- 
speakable distress  and  anguish  of  mind  : — 

^<  He  beard  my  rcmonsti-ancc  with  patience  (says  the  Countess),  and 
seemed  much  troubled  when!  mentioned  the  cases  of  those  persons 
who  have  been  involved  in  utter  ruin  by  means  of  the  brethren.  I 
entered  at  some  len^  into  the  superstitious  horrors  acted  at  Hatton- 
garden,  and  tlie  evident  impropriety  of  usurping  an  autborit}'  over  the 
consciences  and  properties  of  the  people.  Our  conference  was  long, 
and,  as  the  Count  honoured  me  witli  his  company  for  a  few  days,  was 
resumed  at  intervals,  always  closing  with  a  solemn  scriptural  prayer  to 
our  great  and  glorious  Head  for  the  illuminating  influences  of  his  Spirit 
to  guide  us  into  all  truth.  We  parted  with  the  utmost  cordiality. 
Dear  Mr.  Whitefield  s  letter  has  much  grieved  the  Count  But  liis  re- 
monstrance is  faithful,  and  the  awful  exposures  he  has  reluctantly  been 
forced  to  make,  may  be  productive  of  the  highest  good  in  opening  the 
eyes  of  many  to  tlie  miserable  delusions  under  which  they  lie." 

About  this  period  the  illness  of  one  of  her  daughters  obliged 
Lady  Gertrude  Hotham  to  remove  to  Bath.  In  the  summer  of 
1755  Mr.  Whitetield  again  visited  that  city,  and  preached  fre- 
quently at  the  residence  of  Lady  Gertrude.  Lord  (Chester- 
field and  Mr.  Stanhope,  who  had  just  then  returned  from  the 
Continent  after  a  long  absence,  were  on  a  visit  to  Lady  Ger- 
trude.    Mrs.  Bevan*   and    Mrs.    Grinfield  were   also  of  the 

•  Mrs.  Bevan  was  a  daughter  and  co-heiress  of  Mr.  Vaiighan,  of  Derllysg,  in 
the  parish  of  Merthyr,  Caermarthenshirc,  and  received  her  first  serious  iinprea* 
sions  under  the  apostolic  ministry  uf  Griffith  Jones,  Rector  of  Llandowvor. 
She  was  very  handsome,  sensible,  and  accomplished.  Her  husband,  Arthur 
Bevan,  Esq.,  of  Langhanie,  was  Rector  of  the  County- Borough  of  Caermarthen, 
and  for  fourteen  years  itc  representative  in  F^u*Iiament;  his  puUic  condoct  was 
at  once  dignified  and  endearing,  and  he  died  (March  6,  1745,  aged  56,)  beloved 
and  lamented.  To  Mr.  Jones  Mrs.  Bevan  H'as  ever  grateful  and  a£rectioiuite» 
attended  his  ministry  at  Llandowvor  and   Llandilo,  powerfully  assisted  his 

efforU  in  esUblishing  that  blessing  to  the  poor  of  the  Principality the  Welsh 

Cirq|lating  Charity  Schools — and,  at  last,  in  1761,  it  was  in  her  house  at  Lan^- 
hame  that  he  died,  and  at  her  own  expense  she  erected  a  monument  to  hit 
memory  in  the  parish  church  he  had  so  faithfully  served.  For  twenty  yean 
after  his  death  she  continued  his  schools,  and  in  her  will  left  £10,000  to  per- 
petuate their  good  effects.  The  executrix.  Lady  Stepney,  disputed  the  legaejr* 
and  it  was  thrown  into  Chancery,  whence,  in  1808,  it  came,  increased  to  a 


SELlNA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  455 

party ;  but  the  most  interesting  member  of  this  remarkable  circle 
was  the  young  lady  whose  illness  had  brought  Lady  Gertrude 
and  her  friends  to  Bath.  She  was  the  eldest  daughter,  and 
had  all  her  mother's  piety.  When  Lady  Gertrude  opened  her 
house  to  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel,  and  when  the  house  of 
Lady  Huntingdon  was  a  temple  at  which  the  great  were  not 
ashamed  to  worship  Christ,  this  young  lady  had  been  heartily 
awakened  by  the  preaching  of  Mr.  Whitefield.*  Before  the 
period  of  which  we  write  she  had  long  seemed  to  be  preparing 
for  that  inheritance  which  was  reserved  for  her  in  the  courts 

•um,  and  was  applied  to  the  purposes  willed  by  the  testatrix  At  every  visit 
of  Mr.  Whitefield  to  Bath  he  preached  in  Mrst.  Bevan's  bouse,  and  at  the 
period  of  which  we  speak,  the  Earls  of  Chesterfield  and  Huntingdon,  and  Mrs. 
Stanhope,  were  among  the  distinguished  auditory.  Mrs.  Bevan*s  elegant  and 
aecoinpU^ed  manners  attracted  Lord  Chcstertield's  attention,  and  having 
studied  the  Deistical  writers  of  the  age,  she  W'as  enabled  to  give  all  her  eminent 
ability  and  clearness  to  the  discussion  of  the  topics  be  was  fond  of  introducing. 
She  easilv  and  solidly  refuted  his  plausible  objections  to  revealed  religion. 
**  Lord  Cnesterfield*s  inclination  to  subveit  Christianity  (she  writes  to  Lady 
Huntingdon)  has  involved  me  in  many  inconsistencies.  A  greater  proof  of 
his  prejudices  and  his  being  reduced  to  the  last  distress  in  point  of  ai^ument  is 
his  general  clamours  and  invectives  against  aM  historical  evidence,  as  abso- 
lutely uncertain ;  and  it  is  not  so  much  the  conniptions  of  Christianity  that  his 
LordUhip  finds  fault  with,  as  with  the  Christian  revelation  itself,  which  he  does 
not  scruple  to  represent  as  the  product  of  enthusiasm  or  imposture.  Yet,  at 
other  times,  he  will  agree  with  me,  that  never  were  there  any  facts  that  had 
clearer  and  more  convincing  evidence  attending  them,  than  the  extraordinary 
and  miraculous  facts  whereby  the  divine  ori^nsd  and  authority  of  the  Christian 
revelation  was  attested  and  confirmed.  This  strange  fluctuation  of  opinion  I 
can  account  for  only  on  this  ground — that  the  incontrovertible  and  undeniable 
evidence  of  these  facts  has  overcome  the  notions  and  prejudices  with  which 
his  mind  has  been  so  strongly  prepossessed :  and  it  is  this  shaUdng  of  the 
Babel  of  unbelief  that  ^\U  me  with  hope  that  the  great  Dispenser  of  spiritual 
benefits  wiU,  of  his  free  grace  and  mercy,  reveal  to  his  Lordship's  mind  the 
grand  and  harmonious  svstem  of  revealed  truth,  the  several  parts  of  which  are 
Uke  so  many  links  of  a  beautiful  chain,  one  part  answering  to  another,  and  all 
concurring  to  exhibit  an  admirable  plan,  in  which  the  v^Hsdom,  the  grace  and 
goodness,  and  the  righteousness  of  God,  most  eminently  shine  forth.  Your 
Ladyship's  great  intimacy  with,  and  friendship  for.  Lord  Chesterfield,  has  in. 
duced  me  to  be  thus  minute  in  what  related  to  him.  Of  Lord  Huntingdon,  I 
have  net  had  much  opportunity  of  forming  an  opinion ;  but  I  hear  from  good 
Lady  Gertrude,  that  Sir  Charles  and  his  Lordship  are  inseparable,  and  have 
long  and  aiumated  discussions  on  the  most  interesting  topics.  He  has  called 
frequently  on  Mrs.  Grin  field,  with  whom  he  seems  much  pleased.  Your  Lady- 
ship is  well  assured  she  wiU  not  lose  a  favourable  opportunity  of  speaking  a 
word  in  season.** 

*  At  the  moment  of  Miss  Hotham*8  triumphant  departure,  Mr.  Whitefield 
was  at  Portsmouth,  and,  as  soon  as  he  received  the  intelligence,  he  wrote  an 
afi^cting  letter  to  Lady  Gertrude.  On  his  return  to  town,  he  preached  a 
funeral  sermon  at  the  TVibemacle  on  the  death  of  Miss  Hotham,  to  an  over- 
flowing and  deeply  affecting  congregation  :  and  having  heard  from  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon of  the  Christian  fortitude  with  which  Lady  Gertrude  supported  her 
deprivation,  be  wrote  a  kind  and  consoling  letter  to  the  bereaved  mother,  who 
was  m«tlj  comforted  by  loLigious  resignation  and  the  synpathies  of  teoder 
friends. 

F  F  2 


450  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

above ;  but  her  friends  had  little  expectation  of  the  calm  splen- 
dour of  that  closing  scene  which  rendered  her  an  example  to 
the  Church.  A  few  days  before  her  departure,  Mr.  Whitefield 
visited  her  at  the  particular  request  of  Lady  Gertmde.  She 
had  been  prayed  for  very  earnestly  two  days  before  at  the  ad- 
ministrations of  the  sacrament  at  Lady  Hunting^don's,  the  pre- 
ceding day  at  the  administration  of  the  same  ordinance  at  Lady 
Fanny  Shirley's,  and  likewise  previous  to  his  interview,  in  Ladj 
Gertrude's  drawing-room,  on  which  occasion  her  Ladyship,  Sir 
Charles  Hotham,  the  Misses  Melisina  and  Gertrude  Hotham, 
the  Countess  Deliiz,  Lady  Fanny  Sliirley,  and  the  attending 
domestics,  were  much  affected  with  the  awful  and  impressive 
solemnity  of  the  scene.  When  Mr.  Whitefield  approacned  her 
bed-side,  she  seemed  glad  to  see  him,  but  requested  he  would 
speak  and  pray  as  softly  as  he  could.  She  desired  to  keep  her 
lying  posture ;  "  but  I  can  rise  to  take  physic,"  she  exclaimed ; 
"  why  not  to  pray  ?"  He  conversed  with  her  a  little,  during 
which  she  dropt  some  strong  expressions  about  the  depravity 
of  her  heart,  the  vanity  of  the  world,  and  the  littleness  of  every 
thing  out  of  Christ.  She  appeared  to  speak  out  of  the  abun- 
dance of  her  heart,  from  a  feeling  sense  of  her  own  viieness. 
After  prayer  she  seemed  as  though  she  felt  things  unutterable. 
Those  about  her  wept  for  joy.  A  short  time  before  her  dis- 
solution she  declared  to  those  around  her  dying  bed,  her  peace 
and  hope,  and  bore  the  strongest  testimony  to  the  faithfulness 
and  love  of  God  to  her  soul  at  that  solemn  season.  She  knew 
in  whom  she  had  believed ;  and  her  hope  of  eternal  life,  founded 
on  the  Rock  of  Ages,  was  an  anchor  to  her  soul,  "  both  sure 
and  stedfast."  Before  the  final  struggle  she  affectionately  em- 
braced her  whole  family,  and,  with  almost  her  last  breath,  assured 
her  afflicted  parent  that  she  was  quite  free  from  pain  or  fear. 
In  this  peaceful  state  she  took  her  leave  of  earthly  scenes  and 
entered  into  the  joy  of  her  Lord.* 

In  December,  1757,  Lady  Gertrude  had  the  happiness  of 
seeing  her  son,  Sir  Charles  Hotham,  married  to  an  amiable 
and  accomplished  youn^  lady.  Miss  Clara  Anne  Clutterbuck, 
daughter  and  heiress  of  1  nomas  Clutterbuck,  Esq.,  of  Mill-green, 
in  Essex.  Their  union  was  but  of  short  duration.  In  June, 
1 759,  Lady  Hotham  was  suddenly  seized  with  a  violent  fever, 
which,  in  the  course  of  a  few  days,  terminated  in  death.  This 
severe  affliction,  however,  was  the  appointed  means  of  leading 

•  See,  in  the  second  volume  of  Mr.  WTiitcfi eld's  Letters,  a  narrative  of  his 
last  inter\'iew  \nth  Miss  Hotham,  addressed  to  Lady  Elizabeth  Hastings, 
afterwards  Countess  of  Moira,  the  eldest  daughter  of  Selina,  Countess  of 
Huntingdon. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OP  HUNTINGDON.  457 

Sir  Charles  to  a  deeper  knowledge  and  experience  of  the  truth 
as  it  is  in  Jesus.  He  had  frequently  heard  Mr.  Whitefield  and 
other  eminent  ministers  at  his  mother's  house  in  London  and 
Bath,  and  had  not  drunk  the  poison  of  his  uncle  Chesterfield ; 
yet  he  was  not  a  decided  character  until  he  became  a  lonely 
widower.  From  that  time  he  defied  all  the  sneers  of  the  Court, 
and  dared  to  be  "  singularly  good." 

Soon  after  the  death  of  his  lady,  Sir  Charles  Hotham  became 
Groom  of  the  Bed-chamber  to  George  III.,  through  the  interest 
of  his  uncle.  Lord  Chesterfield ;  owing  to  his  increased  ill  health 
and  being  ordered  change  of  air,  he  went  to  Germany  in  1767, 
and  in  the  same  year  died  there,  at  a  village  near  the  Spa.  This 
last  stroke  was  a  severe  one  to  Lady  Gertrude.  She  had 
already  lost  her  hopes,  and  now  her  Isaac  was  called  for,  but  in 
the  trial  she  showed  an  Abraham's  faith  and  patience.  The 
very  evening  after  she  received  the  intelligence  of  her  melan- 
choly loss,  being  alone  and  reading,  she  set  fire  to  her  ruffles, 
and  the  linen  about  her  neck  and  head  burned  so  rapidly,  that 
for  fifteen  days  she  was  under  means  for  her  recovery.  She 
would  not  suffer  her  friends  to  lament  the  accident,  blamed  her- 
self for  having  been  desirous  of  a  speedy  flight,  or  marking  out 
the  way  to  God.  While  Mr.  Adair  dressed  her  wounds,  which 
daily  occupied  an  hour  and  a  half,  she  would  speak  of  God's 
mercies  to  her.  The  surgeon  would  say  that  her  good  life  had 
merited  heaven ;  but  she,  in  holy  indignation,  would  rouse  her 
fainting  spirits  to  reply,  that  there  w^as  no  merit  but  in  Christ 
Jesus,  and  that  in  his  blood  and  righteousness  were  all  her 
hopes.  She  called  on  her  friends  to  bless  God  for  lier  accident, 
and  suffered  the  means  of  recovery  to  be  taken  with  her  only 
in  the  spirit  of  submission,  lest  it  should  be  God's  will  that  she 
should  live.  For  every  nourishment  afforded,  she  gave  peculiar 
thanks,  and  on  being  directed  to  take  some  wine,  she  could  not 
speak  of  its  restoring  influence  without  remembering  that  on  his 
cross  her  Saviour  was  denied  the  kind  indulgence  tlicn  afforded 
her.  A  few  minutes  before  her  death,  her  friends  put  some 
liquid  in  her  mouth,  and  she,  who  had  spoken  little  for  three 
da^s,  said,  "  Enough — happy — ^happy  !"  and  one  sigh  set  her 
spirit  at  liberty  !* 

*  This  interesting  account  of  the  death  of  the  good  and  pious  Lady  Gertrude 
Hotham  the  writer  received  from  the  lips  of  Lady  Maxwell,  of  Edinburgh,  one 
well  acquainted  with  the  leading  worthies  mentioned  in  these  memoirs.  The 
reader  is  referred  to  a  letter  from  Mr.  Venn  to  Mrs.  Ryland,  Lady  Huntingdon 
and  Mr.  Venn's  friend  and  correspondent,  wife  of  the  Rev.  John  Ryland, 
formerly  curate  of  Huddersfield,  and  afterwards  Minister  of  St  Mary*8,  Binning, 
ham,  and  Rector  of  Sutton  Coldfield,  Warwickshire,  who  died  in  1822. 


458  THS  LITE   AXD  TOIES  OF 


Sir  Charles  Hotbam  had  been  the  iDtimale  compaiMOfi  of  the 
youngr  Earl  of  Huntingdon,  upon  whom  he  had  exerted  some 
good  influence,  at  lea>t  for  a  tioie.  Mr.  WhiteBeld,  in  a  letter 
to  Lady  Fanny  Shirley,  says  in  reference  to  the  fnendship  of 
Sir  Charles  and  her  nephew,  the  Earl  of  Huntii^doi 


^  It  win  be  pleasant  :o  see  Sir  Charies  and  the  Eari  stiiring  wbo 
shall  go  faMest  to  lieaTCD.  Yoar  Ladyship  will  scorn  to  be  out- 
stripped by  any.  The  Almighty  God  approres  the  ambition,  and 
angels  look  down  with  pleasure  to  see  the  erent  Blessed  be  Ood, 
that  is  certain.  All  belierers  here  do  ran,  and  all  bereafler  shall 
obtain  the  prixe.** 

Unfortunately,  the  Earl  of  Huntingdon  was  not  a  Sir  Charles 
Hotham.  Little  has  erer  been  made  known  relative  to  this  ac- 
complished nobleman,  the  eldest  and  onlv  sunrifing  son  of  Lady 
Huntingdon.  He  was  bom  in  1729,  the  memorable  year  in 
which  Methodism  took  its  rise  at  Oxford. 

We  have  already  spoken  of  his  tour  to  France,  and  his  intro- 
duction from  his  adopted  father.  Lord  Chesterfield,  formerly 
ambassador  to  that  Court,  to  the  celebrated  Lady  Henrey, 
mother  of  the  excellent  Lady  Mary  Fitzgerald,  the  friend  and 
correspondent  of  Ladv  Himtingdon,  Mr.  Venn,  Mr.  Fletcher, 
and  Mr.  Wesley.  When  voung,  the  public  expectation  was 
raised  very  hi^  regarding  fiim ;  and  an  Ode  was  addressed  to 
him  bv  t>r.  Slark  Akenside,  who,  as  the  reader  knows,  had 
settlecf  as  a  physician  at  Northampton,  and  was  patronized  by 
the  Huntinc^don  family. 

In  Xovember  1756,  he  was  ap|X)inted  Master  of  the  Horse 
to  George  the  Third,  then  Prince  of  Wales ;  who,  succeeding 
to  the  crown  October  25,  1760,  continued  his  Lordship  in  that 
office,  and  nominated  him  one  of  the  Priv^'  Council  in  Decem- 
her  following.  His  Lordship  carried  the  Sword  of  State  at  his 
Majesty's  coronation,  in  1761  :  and  December  29th,  the  fol- 
lowing year,  was  ap|x>inted  Lord  Lieutenant,  and  Custos  Rotu- 
lonira  of  the  West  Ridins:  of  Yorkshire,  and  of  the  City  of 
York  and  County  of  the  same.  At  the  baptism  of  Pnnce 
Frederick,  his  Majesty's  second  son,  on  Wednesday  evening, 
September  14,  1763,  the  Earl  of  Huntingdon,  being  then  Groom 
of  the  Stole,  (which  office  he  resigned  in  Januarj',  1770,)  stood 
proxy  for  the  Duke  of  York,  one  of  tlie  sponsors.  His  Lord- 
ship was  also  enrolled  among  the  members  of  the  Royal  Society. 
He  is  said  to  have  left  his  place  at  Court,  and  given  up  all  em- 
ployment, oflended  at  being  refu>etl  the  Dukedom  of  Clarence, 
which  he  had  claimed  by  hereditary  right.  Although  his  man- 
ners were]  much  more  like  those  of  a  foreigner  than  an  English? 


SELIKA)  OOtTKTCSS  OF  RtmTINGDOK.  459 

man  (speaking  French,  Italian,  and  Spanish  perfectly,  with  all 
the  elegance  of  a  foreign  courtier, )  yet  lie  never  made  a  display 
of  any  thing  like  superiority.  It  was  impossible  to  be  in  his 
society  without  obtaining  information,  and  he  was  equally  polite 
to  the  wise  and  to  the  ignorant  His  venerable  mother,  how- 
ever, through  a  long  life,  had  to  mourn  over  the  infideUty  of  her 
child,  and  the  baseness  of  those  principles  which  he  had  im- 
bibed from  Lord  Chesterfield  and  Lord  Boligbroke.* 

When  Lady  Huntingdon  was  in  Yorkshire,  Mr.  Grimshaw, 
rector  of  Haworth,  used  to  be  much  with  her  Ladyship,  and 
had  frequent  arguments  with  Lord  Huntingdon  on  the  internal 
evidence  of  the  Christian  religion.  On  one  occasion,  after  a 
discussion  of  this  nature,  Mr.  Grrimshaw,  with  the  openness  and 
frankness  so  characteristic  of  that  apostolic  labourer,  told  his 
lordship  <^  that  the  fault  was  n.  t  so  much  in  his  head  as  in  his 
heart."  His  Lordship  was  so  much  affected  with  this  remark, 
that  he  never  encountered  that  antagonist  again.  So  true  it  is 
that  the  most  insurmountable,  as  well  as  the  most  usual,  obstacle 
to  our  belief,  arises  from  our  passions,  appetites,  and  interests ; 
for  faith  being  an  act  of  the  will  as  much  as  of  the  understanding, 
we  more  often  disbelieve  for  want  of  inclination  than  for  want 
of  evidence. 

Lord  Huntingdon  died  before  his  venerable  parent,  October 
2,  1789.  He  was  unmarried,  but  left  a  natural  ton,  Lieutenant- 
Oeneral  Sir  Charles  Hastings,  Bart.  The  barony  of  Hastings 
devolved  on  his  sister,  the  County  of  Moira,  but  the  Earldom 

*  We  have  elsewhere  adverted  to  Mr.  Lindsay.     His  mother  had  lived  manj 
years  in  the  family  of  Frances,  Countess.  Dowager  of  Huntingdon.    The  Earl 
was  his  godfather,  and  gave  him  the  name  of  Theophilus.     By  the  kindness  of 
Lady  Bettv  and  Lady  Anne  Hastings,  he  was  placed  at  the  Free  Onunmar 
School  of  Leeds,  under  the  Rev.  Mr.  Barnard  (the  biographer  of  Lad^  Betty), 
and  his  vacations  were  spent  at  the  house  of  his  noble  patrons.     With  them, 
too,  his  mother  and  onl  v  sister  continued  to  find  a  shelter  after  the  death  of  his 
father-    The  mother  died  in  1747,  and  over  her  remains  was  erected  a  stone, 
on  which  we  read,  that  "  while  a  child  she  had  been  the  playfellow,  and  when 
a  widow  the  friend  of  Lady  Anne  Hastings,  who  erected  that  monument  to  her 
memory,  and  was  a  sincere  and  affectionate  mourner  for  her  death.**    The  Rev. 
Theophilus  Lindsay  was  appointed  by  Lord  Huntingdon  to  the  living  of  Piddle- 
town,  in  Dorsetshire,  which  he  exchanged  for  the  vicarage  of  Catterick.     After, 
wards  he  seceded  from  the  Established  Church,  and  the  personal  intercourse 
with  his  noble  patron  was  suspended.     Yet  in  1786,  when  ne  visited  Trevecca, 
the  Countess  gave  orders  that  all  attention  should  be  shown  him,  and  received 
himself  and  wife  "  most  gradmisly,  as  usual,**  as  be  himself  has  recorded.     Mvek 
ami  §armai  comfenation  pasted  between  the  Ladf  Se&ut  and  Mr.  Lmduaf  on  the 
mbfed  ef  the  Earl,  her  eon,     Mr.  Lindsay  hinted,  that  possibly  the  state  of 
future  punishment  might  be  only  a  process  of  severe  discipline,  and  that  the 
greatest  sinners  might  ultimately  fina  merey.    Hiese  words  sank  deep  into  her 
*   heart.     **  Some  good,  I  hope,  is  done  (says  Mr.   Lindsay),  where  much  is  in- 
tended  by  this  praiseworthy  lady,  who  has  Jbr  feU  forty  yean  devoted  her  for^ 
time,  time,  and  labovr,  to  prooMHc  what  she  beUevts  to  be  Ike  truth.** 


460  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

remained  unclaimed  till  January  14,  1819,  when  Hans  Francis 
Hastings,  son  of  Lieutenant-Colonel  George  Hastings,  who 
had  been  educated  at  the  sole  expense  of  Theophilus,  Earl 
of  Huntingdon,  was  confirmed  in  nis  claim  to  the  Earldom, 
and  took  his  seat  in  the  House  of  Peers,  as  itcelfik  Earl  of 
Huntingdon. 

Ladv  Elizabeth  Hastings,  afterwards  Countess  of  Moira,  was 
the  eldest  daughter  of  Lady  Huntingdon.     In  early  life  she  was 
much  admired  at  Court  for  her  elegance  of  manners,  her  W- 
vacity,  and  great  abilities.      She  was  appointed  Lady  of  the 
Bedchamber  to  the  Princesses  Amelia  and  Caroline,  sisters  to 
George  the  Third,  in   March  1749,  in  the  room  of  Lady  Anne 
Montague,  who  resigned.     Her  Ladyship  held  the  situation 
only  a  few  months.     Horace  Walpole,  afterwards  Lord  Orford, 
says, — ^^  The  Queen  of  the  Methodists  got  her  daughter  named 
for  Lady  of  the  Bedchamber  to  the  Princesses ;  but  it  is  alt 
off  again,  as  she  will  not  let  her  play  at  cards  on  Sundays." 
Whether  this  was  the  real  cause  we  do  not  pretend  to  know ; 
but  she  was  shortly  succeeded  by  a  daughter  of  Earl  Gower. 
Lady  Elizabeth  married,  in  1752,  John,  first  Earl  of  Moira,  and 
on  the  decease  of  her  brother,  Francis,  tenth  Earl  of  Hunting- 
don, in  1789,  carried  the  Baronies,  hy  tcrit,  Botreaux,  Hun- 
gerford,  Molines,  and  Hastings,  to  that  family.     Her  grandson, 
George  Augustus  Francis,  present  Marquis  of  Hastings,  married 
Barbara  Gray  de  Ruthyn,  heir  to  the  wnole  blood  of  the  Earls 
of  Pembroke,  and  the  elder  branch  of  the  house  of  Hastings. 
His  infant  son  is  heir  to  three  noble  families — namely,  the  Mar- 
quisate  of  Hastings,  the  Scotch  Earldom  of  Loudon,  and  the 
Barony  of  Ruthyn.     The  Earl  of  Moira  was  Baron  Rawdon  at 
the  period  of  Iiis  union  with  Lady  Elizabeth  Hastings.     He 
was  the  cousin-german  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  and  their  marriage 
appears  to  have  given  her  considerable  satisfaction.     Soon  after 
the  union,  the  Countess  of  Hertford,  when  writing  to  a  friend, 
says — 

"  Lady  Rawdon's  marriage  has  given  unmingled  satisfaction  to  all 
her  family  and  friends,  and  Lady  Huntingdon  tells  me  she  is  extremely 
happy  and  contented.  I  rejoice  at  this,  not  only  on  her  account,  but 
on  account  of  her  worthy  mother,  who  has  certainly  done  her  duty  by 
her,  and  fulfilled  her  trust  with  the  most  scrupulous  fidelity.  Lady 
Selina  (this  letter  was  wTitten  before  the  death  of  that  excellent  young 
lady)  is  a  great  comfort  to  her,  and  is  a  most  amiable,  pious,  and  affec- 
tionate character.  What  an  affliction  is  Lord  Huntingdon's  dislike  to 
religion  !  And  what  have  not  my  Lords  Chesterfield  and  Bolinghroko 
to  answer  for  ?  But  he  is  most  attentive,  respectful,  and  kind  to  Lady 
Huntingdon.  This  is  some  consolation ;  and  we  may  hope  that  in  the 
course  of  time,  her  example,  and  the  excellent  advice  which  he  has 


8ELINA,   CX>UNTESS   OV  HUKTINGDOK.  461 

receiyed,  may  hare  their  full  weight  of  inflnence  on  his  character.  He 
is  a  most  interesting,  elegant,  and  accomplished  voung  nohlcman,  and 
very  likely  to  make  some  figure  io  the  world.  He  was  much  affected 
at  the  death  of  Miss  Hotham,  to  whom  he  is  said  to  have  been  greatly 
attached ;  but  of  this  I  cannot  speak  with  any  certainty,  as  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon has  never  mentioned  it  to  me." 

The  writer  of  these  pages  was  very  intimate  with  Lady  Moira 
after  she  had  passed  her  seventieth  year,  and  received  from  her 
many  interesting  particulars  relative  to  her  venerable  mother. 
Her  Ladyship  always  spoke  of  Lady  Huntingdon  with  marked 
respect  and  affection.  She  frequently  called  attention  to  an 
original  likeness  of  her  Ladyship,  which  represents  the  Countess 
placing  her  foot  on  her  coronet.  This  portrait  must  have  been 
paint^  prior  to  the  year  1773 ;  for  we  find  Horace  Walpole,  in 
one  of  his  letters  of  that  date,  mentioning  what  he  terms  the 
"  Beatific  print"  of  Lady  Huntingdon,  just  then  published, 
which  was  copied  from  it.  Lady  Moira  was  a  great  political 
character ;  she  was  a  woman  of  exquisite  taste,  of  extensive 
literary  acauirements — and  the  patroness  of  all  the  literary 
geniuses  of  her  day.  Lord  Moira  died  in  1 793,  and  his  Countess 
survived  him  till  April  12, 1808.  She  was  in  her  seventy-eighth 
year. 

Among  Lady  Huntingdon's  visitors  at  Bath  this  season,  were 
Mrs.  Carteret  and  Mrs.  Cavendish,  two  sisters,  allied  to  two  of 
the  noblest  and  most  ancient  families  in  England  ;  they  formed 
part  of  the  great  harvest  collected  at  Lady  Huntingdon's  house 
m  London,  having  there  first  heard  and  received  the  Gospel  in 
the  light  and  in  tne  love  of  it.  Being  women  of  rank  and  for- 
tune, their  influence  was  considerable,  and  many,  by  their  instru- 
mentality, were  induced  to  attend  Mr.  Whitefield's  ministry. 
They  united  with  Lady  Huntingdon,  Lady  Gertrude  Hotham, 
and  the  other  "  honourable  women,"  in  their  exertions  to  spread 
in  the  region  around  them,  the  light  of  the  Sun  of  Righteousness, 
and  very  manv  monuments  remained  of  their  successful  labours. 
In  the  publislied  correspondence  of  Mr.  Fletcher,  Mr.  Berridge, 
and  others,  letters  to  these  excellent  women  will  be  found. 
There  is  an  interesting  narrative  of  their  dying  experience,  in  a 
volume  of  the  Christian  Guardian,  in  a  letter  addressed  to  their 
very  dear  and  intimate  friend,  the  ever-to-be-revered  Lady  Mary 
Fitzgerald,  now  united  to  them  in  glory.  In  their  last  illnes^ 
they  were  frequently  visited  by  Messrs.  Romaine,  Newton, 
Hill,  Cecil,  Foster,  Jones  (of  Cangan),  Venn,  and  other  emi- 
nent ministers  of  Christ.  Two  or  three  days  before  Mrs.  Car- 
teret's death,  her  dear  old  friend,  Mr.  Venn,  went  in  to  look  at 
her.   She  took  hold  of  bis  hand,  and  prayed  most  earnestly  that 


46S  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMEB  OF 

the  Lord  Jesus  would  blot  out  every  spot  of  rin  in  his  most 
precious  blood,  and  clothe  her  in  his  most  glorious  righteousness, 
that  therein  her  soul  might  be  justified.  These  prayers  she 
repeated  again  and  agam  with  great  earnestness;  they  were 
prayers  which  received  and  embraced  the  promises,  and,  laying 
hold  of  them  with  a  sure  and  certain  hope,  she  rejoiced  in  a  full 
salvation. 

Mrs.  Cavendish  said — "  It  is  enough — an  everlasting  covenant, 
ordered  in  all  things  and  sure — this  is  all  my  salvation  and  all 
my  desire."  Her  favourite  hymn,  during  the  whole  course  of  her 
illness,  was  the  one  commencing — 

*'  There  was  a  fountain  filled/'  &c. 

They  were  removed  hence  within  a  short  time  of  each  other, 
to  meet  again  in  the  kingdom  of  their  Lord  and  Saviour  Jesus 
Christ  "  They  were  lovely  in  their  lives,  and  in  their  deaths 
were  not  divided." 

The  Countess  Delitz,  one  of  the  daughters  of  the  Duchess  of 
Kendal  and  the  sister  of  Lady  Chesterfield,  was  another  gem 
of  the  same  crown ;  and  many  of  the  letters  of  Mr.  Whiteneld 
to  her  Ladyship  have  been  preserved  in  the  collection  pub- 
lished by  his  executors.  The  Countess  was  particularly  intimate 
with  Lady  Fanny  Shirley,  and  is  frequentlv  mentioned  in  the 
correspondence  of  Mr.  Hervey  with  her  Ladyship.  She  died  in 
Chesterfield-street,  May-fair,  November  2,  1773. 

Such  were  Mr.  Whitefield's  trophies  in  the  Chesterfield  fa- 
mily. He  won  souls  in  it,  upon  the  right  hand  and  the  left  of 
the  Earl ;  thus  leaving  him  without  excuse  for  his  wilful  blind- 
ness and  obstinate  rejection  of  divine  truth  :  his  Countess  made 
a  better  choice. 

Lady  Chesterfield  was  a  natural  daughter  of  George  the  First, 
and  was  created  Countess  of  Walsingham  and  Baroness  of  Aid- 
borough  in  her  own  right.  Her  mother  was  Melosina  de 
Schulenberg,  Duchess  of  Kendal,  who  died  in  1743,  when  her 
title  became  extinct.  Bom  to  wealth,  and  allied  to  a  rich  and 
noble  house,  she  was  fitted  to  make  a  distinguished  figure  among 
the  great,  and  to  shine  at  Court.  Her  various  accomplishments 
attracted  general  admiration  ;  and  she  was  for  many  years  fasci- 
nated with  the  splendour  and  allurements  of  high  life,  which 
seemed  to  absorb  all  her  thoughts  and  gratify  her  utmost  wishes. 
But  it  pleased  God  to  lead  her  to  attend  the  preaching  of  Mr. 
Whitefield,  at  the  Countess  of  Huntingdon's  house ;  and  to  con- 
vince her,  that  no  situation,  however  high  and  elevated,  can  secure 
to  its  possessor  uninterru])ted  felicity ;  and  at  the  same  time 
exhibited  to  her  view  the  source  of  true  and  permanent  happi- 


SELINA,  COUKTEBS  OF  HUNTINGDOK.  468 

ness.  Lady  Chesterfield  knew  the  world  too  well,  not  to  expect 
its  hatred  and  reproach  for  casting  her  fortune,  her  honours,  and 
her  talents,  at  the  foot  of  His  Cross.  In  compliance  with  the 
wishes  of  Lord  Chesterfield,  her  Ladyship  sometimes  went  to 
Court,  and  mixed  with  the  gay  and  thougtless ;  but  found  no 
j)leasure|in  the  fashionable  follies  of  those  around  her.  The 
last  time  she  visited  the  royal  circle,  her  plain  but  elegant  dress 
was  of  a  brown  ground  with  silver  flowers,  which  Lord  Chester- 
field, a  nobleman  of  undoubted  taste,  had  obtained  from  the 
Continent  at  considerable  expense.  His  Majesty,  who  it  seems 
¥ras  well  acquainted  with  the  proceedings  at  Lady  Huntingdon's, 
coming  up  to  Lady  Chesterfield,  first  smiled,  and  then  forgetting 
royal  decorum,  remarked — "  I  know  who  chose  that  gown  for 
you — Mr.  Whitefield ;  and  I  hear  you  have  attended  on  him 
this  year  and  a  half."  Lady  Chesterfield  replied,  *^  Yes,  I  have, 
and  like  him  very  well ;"  but  after  she  came  to  her  chair,  was 
grieved  she  had  not  said  more,  when  she  had  so  favourable  an 
opportunity. 

Lord  Chesterfield  had  been  the  intimate  companion  and 
friend  of  the  Earl  of  Huntingdon,  on  whose  decease  the  young 
Earl  became,  as  we  have  stated,  his  adopted  son.  Hence  an 
extraordinary  degree  of  intimacy  subsisted  between  the  families ; 
and  he  was  on  all  occasions  the  counsellor  and  friend  of  Lady 
Huntingdon  and  her  children.  Notwithstanding  his  infidel 
sentiments,  he  was  very  constant  in  his  attendance  at  her  Lady- 
ship's whenever  Mr.  Whitefield  was  to  preach. 

Lady  Huntingdon  had  at  times  some  favourable  hopes  of 
Lord  Chesterfield.     She  said  to  Dr.  Doddridge — 

^^  Sometimes  I  do  hope  for  dear  Lord  Chesterfield  and  Lord  Bath, 
Mr.  Stanhope,  and  one  of  the  privy  coancil  of  Denmark,*  with  a  great 
many  ladies  and  people  of  fashion  as  well  as  of  quality.  I  know  jonr 
warm  heart  will  rejoice  at  this,  and  your  prayers  wiU  help  with  ours 
for  an  increase  to  our  blessed  Lord*8  kingdom^  even  among  them." 

Lord  Chesterfield,  however,  deceived  her  hopes.  He  called 
death  a  '<  leap  in  the  dark  ! "  but  Lady  Huntingdon,  discussing 
this  subject  with  him,  said — 

"  The  sentence,  which  the  Lord  the  ri«ihteous  Judge  shall  pass  upon 
impenitent  sinners  at  the  great  day  of  jadgment,  will  be  final  and 
irreversible.  It  is  our  unspeakable  advant^e,  that  we  are  not  left 
merely  to  the  uncertain  light  or  feeble  conjectures  of  our  own  unassisted 
reason  in  matters  of  the  highest  importance.     In  the  revelation  whidi 

*  A  Danish  Cotiiu,  brotber  to  the  ambassador,  who  was  a  constant  atteiidai)t 
on  Mr.  Whiteficld's  preaching  at  Lady  Huntingdon's. 


464  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

he  Las  given  us  of  himself,  he  declares,  with  great  solemnity,  tliat  it 
shall  be  more  tolerable  in  the  day  of  judgment  for  the  most  profligate 
parts  of  the  heathen  world,  than  for  those  who  ohstinately  reject  and 
ahuse  his  offers 'of  mercy  and  salvation — this  is  the  condemnationy 
saith  the  Saviour  himself,  tliat  light  is  come  into  the  tcorlJ,  hut  men 
love  darkness  ratlier  than  light,  because  their  deeds  are  evil — and  so  go  on 
in  an  ohstinate  course  of  aggravated  guilt,  in  opposition  to  the  clearest 
light  and  most  glorious  advantages.  Nor  is  it  any  impeachment  of 
the  wisdom,  justice,  and  equity  of  the  divine  government,  that  ohsti- 
nate sinners,  who  now  reject  his  mercy  and  grace,  should  never  he 
admitted  to  that  transcendent  hliss  and  glory,  which  he  hath  of  his  own 
free  and  sovereign  goodness  promised  to  the  righteous,  hut  he  left  to 
perish  in  their  sins,  and  for  ever  ahide  under  the  stinging  reflections 
of  their  own  guilty  consciences." 

His  Lordship  lived,  with  increasing  infirmities,  to  the  24th  of 
March,  1 773.  Not  all  the  eflforts  of  Lady  Chesterfield,  of  his 
sister,  I^y  Gertrude  Hotham,  nor  of  Lady  Huntingdon,  could 
induce  the  hardened  Infidel  to  follow  their  example. 

^'  I  saw  my  dear  and  valued  friend  (says  Lady  Huntingdon)  a  short 
time  before  his  departure.  The  blackness  of  darkness,  accompanied 
by  every  gloomy  horror,  thickened  most  awfully  round  his  dying  mo- 
ments. Dear  Lady  Chesterfield  could  not  be  persuaded  to  leave  his 
room  for  an  instant.  What  unmitigated  anguish  has  she  endured.* 
But  her  confidential  communications  I  am  not  at  liberty  to  disclose. 
The  curtain  has  fallen — his  immortal  part  has  passed  to  another  state 
of  existence.     Oh  1  my  soul,  come  not  thou  unto  his  end  I"t 

In  his  will  he  mentions  his  servants,  "  his  unfortunate  friends, 
his  equals  by  nature,"  and  the  mother  of  his  natural  son ;  but 
not  one  word  is  said  of  his  excellent  Lady,  who  survived  him 
only  a  few  years ;  but  how  different  was  her  death-bed : — 

"  I  was  with  her  to  the  last  (says  Lady  Huntingdon),  and  never  saw 
a  soul  more  humbled  in  the  dust  before  God,  on  account  of  her  own 
vUeness  and  nothingness,  but  having  a  sure  and  stedfast  hope  in  the 
love  and  mercy  of  God  in  Christ,  constantly  affirming  that  his  blood 
cleansctli  from  all  sin.  The  last  audible  expressions  that  fell  from 
her,  a  few  moments  before  the  final  struggle,  were — '  Oh  !  my  friend y 
I  have  hope — a  sU-ong  hope — through  grace  I*  then  taking  my  hand,  and 
clasping  it  earnestly  between  hers,  exclaimed  with  much  energy — '  God 
be  merciful  to  me  a  sinner  /' " 

Lady  Chesterfield  died  September  16,  1778,  without  issue, 
whereby  her  titles  became  extinct. 

♦  Her  Ladvship  sent  for  Mr.  Rowland  Hill,  but  Lord  Chesterfield  refused  to 
see  him.  After  his  Lordship's  death,  this  reverend  gentleman  became  chaplain 
to  Lady  Chesterfield,  and  she,  like  Lady  Huntingdon,  used  to  open  her 
splendid  mansion  for  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel. 

f  Lord  Chesterfield's  character  is  too  well  known  to  rcfjuire  much  comment. 


SELINA)  COUNTESS  OF  HUNtlNGDON.  4^5 

Though  Lord  Chesterfield  seldom  exerted  his  poetical  talents 
except  in  epigrams  and  ballads,  the  few  that  are  known  to  be 
his  are  evidently  by  the  hand  of  a  master ;  witness  his  "  Fanny, 
blooming  fair,"  written  on  Lady  Fanny  Shirley,  a  reigning  beauty 
at  Court ;  "  Advice  to  a  Lady  in  Autumn,"  addressed  to  the 
same ;  his  epigram  on  the  Duchess  of  Richmond,  and  verses 
written  in  a  lady's  "  Sherlock  on  Death,"  &c.  No  attack  of  an 
enemy  could  have  degraded  his  character  so  much  as  the  publi- 
cation of  his  "  Letters  to  his  Son,"  which,  if  they  do  not  deserve 
the  severe  reprehension  of  Dr.  Johnson,  that  they  "  inculcated 
the  morals  of  a  strumpet  with  the  manners  of  a  dancing-master,'* 
certainly  display  a  relaxation  of  principle  for  which  no  talents 
can  make  amends,  and  which  prove  him  to  have  been  a  man  in 
whose  mind  the  applause  of  the  world  was  the  great,  and  almost 
the  sole,  governing  principle. 

At  the  same  time  with  Lady  Chesterfield,  William  Pulteney, 
Earl  of  Bath,  the  celebrated  statesman,  and  a  person  of  much 
notoriety  in  his  day,  was  deeply  impressed  under  Mr.  Whitefield's 
ministry.  There  had  been  for  many  years  the  most  intimate 
friendship  between  him  and  Lady  Huntingdon,  in  which  Lady 
Fanny  Shirley  had  no  small  share.  Whatever,  therefore,  may 
be  thought  of  his  public  character,  he  must  have  been  rather 
more  than  moral,  to  have  secured  their  esteem.  He  is  said  to 
have  been  extremely  amiable  in  his  private  life,  and  much 
beloved  by  his  friends.  Lord  Chesterfield's  malignity  towards 
him  was  keen  and  inveterate.  Like  his  political  antagonist.  Sir 
Robert  Walpole,  Lord  Bath  could,  when — 

"  Uncumbered  bv  the  venal  tribe, 
Smile  without  art,  and  win  without  a  bribe." 

He  attended  Tottenham-court  chapel  regularly  for  some  years, 
and  was  very  liberal  on  several  occasions,  contributing  munifi- 
cently to  the  establishment  of  the  Orphan-House,  in  Georgia, 
and  the  erection  of  the  Tabernacle  at  Bristol.  He  died  July 
7th,  1764,  without  surviving  issue.* 

*  The  Countess  of  Bath  \vhs  one  of  the  daughters  and  co-heiresses  of  Colonel 
Guraley,  so  frequently  mentioned  in  these  memoirs.     Horace  Walpole,  ^%Titing 

to  George  Montague,  says "  Gumley,  whom  you  know  is  grown  Methodisf. 

His  wit  is  at  its  wit's  end.  Whiteficld  preaches  continuaUy  at  Lady  Hunting- 
don's, at  Chelsea.  Lord  Chesterfield,  Lord  Bath,  Lady  Townaend,  Lady 
Thanet,  and  others  have  been  to  hear  him  ;  nor  shall  I  wonder  if  next  winter 
he  is  run  after  instead  of  Garrick  T 


466  THE  tIF£  AND  TIMES  OF 


CHAPTER  XXVII. 

Chapel  at  Bath — Bretby  Hall—Mr.  Townsend  and  Mr.  Jesse — Mr.  Roiuaine 
— Mr.  ShrapneU-^Mrs.  Wordsworth-^Letters  from  Mr.  Romainc — Chapel 
opened  at  Bath— Mr.  Whitefield  and  Mr.  Townsend — Mr.  Fletcher*s  labours 
at  l^th  ■Tiffnl  and  Lady  Glenorchy — Letter  from  Lady  Glenorchy  to  Lady 
Huntingdon— Death  of  Lord  and  Lady  Sutherland-^Lady  Huntingdon,  the 
Wesleys,  and  Mr.  Whitefield — Letter  from  Lady  Huntingdon  to  Mr.  Wesley 
.^Horace  Walpole — Lady  Betty  Cobbe — Nobility  attend  Lady  Huntingdon*s 

Chapel — Letters  from  Mr.  Whitefield  to  Mr.  Powys Mr.    Stillingfleet — 

Mr.  Venn  and  Sir  Charles  Hotham — Anecdotes  of  Mr.  Venn — Mr.  Andrews 
and  the  Bishop  of  Gloucester — Mr.  Venn  at  Trevecca — Mr.  Lee — Captain 
Scott  and  Mr.  Venn-^Anecdotes  of  Captuin  Scott — Letter  from  Mr.  Venn — 
Mr.  Howel  Davies — Anecdote — Dr.  Haweis-— Mr.  Cradock  Glascott — 
Letter  from  Mr.  Fletcher. 

In  the  year  1765  her  Ladyship  bought  a  piece  of  ground  in  the 
vineyards  at  Bath,  and  erected  there  a  house  and  the  beautiful 
chapel  which  was  destined  to  prove  so  great  a  blessing.  While 
those  buildings  were  in  course  of  ei-ection,  her  Ladyship  accepted 
Lord  Chesterfield's  offer  of  his  house  and  chapel  at  Bretby 
Hall.  Thither  she  went  with  Mr.  Jesse,  of  West  Bromwich  ; 
Mr.  Romaine  was  prevented  from  accompanying,  but  promised 
to  follow  her  Ladyship,  and  Mr.  Townsend  joined  her  on  her 
arrival,  which  was  towards  the  cloije  of  July  in  the  year  above 
named.  These  ministers  preached  alternately  in  the  Hall  chapel, 
which  on  Mr.Whitefield's  aiTival  was  exchanged  for  the  Park,  so 
vast  was  the  concourse,  and  Mr.  Romaine's  auditors  were  hardly 
less  numerous ;  but  he  refused  to  be  a  ^cZ(i-preacher,  and  the 
crowd  heard  only  what  they  could  gather  from  the  pulpit* 

•  The  letters  of  Mr.  Romaine  to  Mrs.  Mcdhurst,  of  Kippox,  published  by  her 
Vrother-in-law,  the  Rev.  Thomas  Wills,  refer  to  this  period  and  to  his  preach- 
ing at  Derby,  both  at  the  great  Church  and  St.  Werburgh's.  **  Fifteen  pulpits 
(he  says)  were  open,  and  showt^rs  of  graco  came  down  ;  but  Mrs.  Wordsworth 
was  Uucenill  and  obliged  to  go  to  Bath,  and  this  broke  up  the  party.  **  The  late 
Zachary  Shrapnell  (a  man  of  great  piety  and  the  intimate  friend  of  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon)  was  then  at  the  Park.  In  his  rambles  he  met  with  a  poor  cottager, 
whose  account  of  her  own  conversion,  by  Mr.  Romaine,  produced  a  very  power- 
ful impression  on  bis  mind.  "  Some  time  ngo  (she  said)  there  was  a  famous 
man  down  in  this  country,  called  Mr.  Romaine ;  he  preached  some  miles  off, 
and  many  of  the  neighbours  went  to  hear  him,  so  I  thought  I  would  go  too. 
Accordingly  away  I  trudged ;  and  he  had  no  sooner  begun  his  discourse,  but  it 
seemed  aU  directed  to  me :  he  opened  the  depravity  of  my  heart  and  nature. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OP  HUNTINGDON.  467 

Lady  Huntingdon  left  Bretby  for  Bath,  recalled  by  the  indisposi- 
tion of  Mrs.  Wordsworth.* 

Soon  after  her  arrival  at  Bath,  Lady  Huntingdon  summoned 
the  ministers  who  laboured  for  her,  Messrs.  Whitefield,  Shirley, 
Romaine,  Venn,  Madan,  aod  Townsend,  to  the  opening  of  her 
chapel  there. 

Mr.  Romaine  was  willing  to  attend  the  summons,  but  having 
been  received  in  Yorkshire  with  the  greatest  attention  by  the 
clergj',  who,  on  account  of  his  greater  "  regularity,"  opened  to 
him  pulpits  which  were  closed  ^igainst  Mr.  Whitefield;  and, 
beinfi^  then  engaged  with  equal  ardour  and  success  at  Oathall  and 
Brignton,  he  preferred  remaining  there.  **The  Society  (he 
says)  most  earnestly  entreat  you,  if  Mr.  Madan  should  come 
down  to  Bath,  that  I  may  be  suffered  to  stay  here  with  them. 
Why  should  we  both  be  there  at  the  same  time,  to  stand  in  one 
another's  way  ?  Why  should  Bath  have  all,  poor  Brighton  none  ?" 
This  note  is  dated  September  11,  176.5.  Mr.  Madan  was  pre- 
vented from  attending,  and  Lady  Huntingdon  wrote  again  to 
Mr.  Romaine,  who  replied,  under  the  date  of  October  Ist,  1765) 
<igain  denying  her  request — "  I  must  openly  tell  you  (he  says) 
that  my  very  heart  and  soul  are  now  in  this  work ;  masmuch  that 
I  have  not  minded  going  to  Oathall  wet  to  the  skin,  for  the  joy 
that  was  set  before  me."  Lady  Huntingdon  insisted  no  more^ 
and  Mr.  Romaine  was  suffered  to  remain  at  Oathall. 

On  the  6th  of  October,  1765,  the  chapel  was  dedicated  to 

convinced  my  conscience  of  the  awful  condition  in  which  I  had  been  living, 
showed  me  the  wages  of  sin  which  was  due  to  me,  the  truth  of  which  I  felt  in 
ray  own  soul.  He  then  spoke  of  the  fulness  and  glory  of  Christ,  described  his 
sufferings  and  passion,  and  the  design  of  thcw,  displayed  the  riches  of  his  graos 
to  the  miserable  and  the  desperate,  and  invited  them  to  embrace  it  and  be 
blessed.  Sir,  you  cannot  think  the  instantaneous  and  wonderful  effect  it  had 
upon  me.  I  was  connnced  of  sin,  justified  by  faith,  and  came  home  rejoicing; 
and  from  that  day  to  this  have  never  lost  the  sweet  savour  of  the  truths  I  there 
embraced.  How  I  should  long  to  hear  the  gentleman  !  Do  you  know  him  ? 
I  think  they  said  he  came  from  London.**  Mr.  Shrapnell,  who  was  himself  a 
conveit  of  Romaine's,  was  proportionately  affected  by  this  singular  proof  of 
God^  grace  to  him  and  Lady  Huntingdon,  and  of  his  blessing  on  their  endea- 
vours. Mr.  Shrapnell  was  the  father  of  Majjr- General  Henry  Shrapnell,  and 
Miss  Rachael  Shrapnell,  who  manied  the  Rev.  Thomas  Tregenna  Biddulph, 
minister  of  St.  James's,  Bristol.  The  Rev.  Thomas  Shrapnell  Biddulpb,  ddiest 
son  of  the  last-named,  is  a  prebendary  of  Brecon,  'and  a  magistrate  of  the 
counties  of  Carmarthen  and  Pembroke.  He  married  a  daiighter  of  the 
Rev.  James  StilUngfleet,  prebendary  of  Worcester,  the  intimate  friend  of  La^ 
Huntingdon. 

*  Relict  of  John  Wordsworth,  Esq.,  of  the  Isle  of  Thanet,  to  whom  sbe  wag 
miited  in  1758.  She  was  sister  to  Mr.  Townsend,  Rector  of  Pewsey,in  Wilt- 
shire, was  a  woman  of  talent,  and  for  many  years  the  intimate  friend  and  corre- 
spondent  of  Mr.  Romaine.  In  January,  1 77  J ,  she  became  the  wife  of  Dr.  Haweia, 
reeior  of  Aldwinde.  She  was  a  good  Hebraist,  m»d  the  Ckwii  Ikbr^ncm  of 
Julius  Bates  was  Mr.  Ronudne^s  present  to  her  at  her  wedding. 


468  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

God  and  the  preaching  of  his  everlasting  Gospel.  An  im- 
mense crowd  attended,  and  great  numbers  of  the  nobility  who 
had  been  specially  invited  by  Lady  Huntingdon.  Mr.  White- 
field  preached  in  the  morning,  and  the  rector  of  Pewsevj  the 
son  of  the  celebrated  Alderman  Townsend,  of  London,  m  the 
evening. 

"  Could  you  have  come,  (says  Mr.  Whitefield,  in  a  letter  to  his  friend, 
Robert  Keenc,  Esq.,)  and  have  been  present  at  the  opening  of  the 
chapel,  you  would  have  been  much  pleased.  The  building  is  extremely 
plain,  and  yet  equally  mnd.  A  most  beautiful  original !  All  was 
conducted  with  great  solemnity.  Though  a  wet  day,  the  place  was 
very  full,  and  assuredly  the  Great  Shepherd  and  Bishop  of  souls  con- 
secrated and  made  it  holy  ground  by  his  presence." 

Mr.  Whitefield  preached  but  a  few  times,  being  obliged  to 
return  to  London.     Mr.  Madan,  however,  arrived  soon  after  he 
left  Bath,  and  his  ministry  was  attended  with  very  considerable 
success.     Thither,  also,  Mr.  Romaine  followed,  and  sclent  there 
many  of  his  vacations,  with  great  utility  to  the  cause  of  God ; 
for  the  Lord  was  pleased  to  make  known,  by  him,  the  savour  of 
his  grace  in  every  place.     There,  as  at  Brighton,  he  united  in 
labour  with  that  great  apostle  of  the  Lord,  Mr.  Whitefield ;  and 
though  many  are  now  so  shy  of  mentioning  his  name,  or  owning 
their  obligations  to  his  diffusive  zeal,  Mr.  Romame  honoured 
his  character,  gloried  in  his  friendship,  and  cheerfully  associated 
with  him  in  his  labours.  *  They  were,  indeed,  j)ar  nohile  fratrum. 
In  point  of  popular  eloquence  and  commanding  oratory,  Mr. 
Whitefield  was  certainly  his  superior,  as  indeed  he  was  to  every 
other  man  of  his  day.     He  haa  arrows  in  his  quiver  which  he 
alone  knew  how  to  sharpen ;  but  in  erudition  and  critical  know- 
ledge of  the  Scriptures  Mr.  Romaine  far  excelled  him,  and, 
indeed,  most  of  his  contemporaries. 

Much  about  the  same  period  Mr.  Fletcher  repaired  to  Bath, 
on  a  summons  from  Lady  Huntingdon,  and  entered  on  the 
duties  of  his  vocation  with  an  extraordinary  degree  of  earnest- 
ness and  zeal.  Instant  in  season  and  out  of  season,  this  man 
of  God  diliffently  performed  the  work  of  an  evangelist,  faithfully 
dispensing  the  word  of  life,  according  as  every  man  had  need ; 
instructing  the  ignorant,  reasoning  with  gainsayers,  exhorting 
the  immoral,  rebuking  the  obstinate,  and  earnestly  beseeching 
all  to  flee  from  the  wrath  to  come,  and  lay  hold  on  the  hope 
set  before  them  in  the  Gospel  of  God  our  Saviour. 

No  age  or  country  has  ever  produced  a  man  of  more  fervent 
piety,  or  more  perfect  charity ;  no  church  has  ever  possessed  a 
more  apostolic  minister.     Being  by  this  time  fully  acquainted 


SELINA,  COUXTESS  OF  HUNTTXODOK.  469 

with  the  English  language,  he  generally  trusted  to  his  powers, 
and  preached  ex  tempore^  that  mode  of  address  so  universal  on 
the  Continent,  being  much  more  consonant  with  the  lively  feel- 
ings and  ready  utterance  of  Mr.  Fletcher,  than  the  reading  of  a 
pre-composed  sermon,  however  important  the  subject,  or  well 
arranged  its  materials.  The  deep  attention  he  had  paid  to  the 
recesses  of  his  own  heart  enabled  him  to  form  no  inadequate 
idea  of  the  internal  feelings  of  others.  Hence  he  knew  when 
to  probe  and  when  to  heal — when  to  depress  and  when  to  en- 
courage :  and  no  person's  case  was  so  perplexed  or  desperate, 
but  he  was  in  some  measure  prepared  to  explain  and  reheve  it. 
A  happy  talent  which  he  possessed  of  selecting  at  a  moment  the 
most  appropriate  passages  of  Scripture,  clothed  his  words  with 
a  divine  authority,  and  enabled  hun  to  speak  as  one  who  was 
conscious  of  his  high  credentials  : — 

*'  There  was  an  energy  in  his  preaching  (says  Mr.  Gilpin)  that  was 
irresistible.  His  subjects,  his  language^  his  gestures,  the  tone  of  his 
voice,  and  the  turn  of  his  countenance,  all  conspired  to  fix  the  atten- 
tion and  affect  the  heart.  Without  aiming  at  sublimity,  he  was  truly 
sublime :  and  uncommonly  eloquent  without  affecting  the  orator.  He 
was  wondrously  skilled  in  adopting  himself  to  the  different  capacities 
and  conditions  of  his  hearers.  He  could  stoop  to  the  illiterate,  and  * 
rise  with  the  learned :  he  had  incontrovertible  arguments  for  the 
sceptic,  and  powerful  persuasions  for  the  listless  believers;  he  had 
sharp  remonstrance  for  the  obstinate,  and  strong  consolation  for  the 
mourner.  To  hear  him  without  admiration,  was  impossible,  'without 
profit,  improbable  !  The  unthinking  went  from  his  presence  under  the 
mfluence  of  serious  impressions,  and  the  obdurate  with  kindled  re- 
lentings.'* 

Such  was  the  man  whom  Lady  Huntingdon  appointed  to  hold 
forth  the  word  of  life  to  the  numerous  auditories  that  thronged 
her  chapel  at  Bath.  His  words  were  clothed  with  power,  and 
entered  the  heart  of  many  a  sinner : — 

""  Deep  and  awful  (says  her  Ladyship)  are  the  impressions  made  on 
every  hand.  Dear  Mr.  Fletchers  preaching  is  truly  apostolic — the 
Divine  blessing  accompanies  his  word  in  a  very  remarkable  manner. 
He  is  ever  at  his  work,  is  amazingly  followed,  and  singularly  owned  of 
God." 

In  one  of  his  pastoral  letters  to  his  flock  at  Madely,  in  re- 
ference to  his  labours  at  Bath,  he  savs : — 

''By  the  help  of  Divine  Providence  and  the  assistance  of  your 
prayers,  I  came  safe  here.  I  wns,  and  am  still,  a  goo<l  deal  weighed 
down  under  the  sense  of  my  own  insufficiency  to  preach  the  unsearch- 
able riches  of  Christ  to  poor  dying  souls.  This  place  is  the  seat  of 
Satan's  gaudy  throne ;  the  Loid  Iwth,  nevertheless^  a  few  names  hcre^ 

VOL,  L— G  G 


470  tmS  LIFE  AND  TtMEfl  O!^ 

M'lio  arc  not  Qfthamed  of  him,  and  of  whom  he  is  not  ashamed,  both 
among  tlie  poor  and  among  tlic  rich.  There  are  not  many  of  Utc  last^ 
tliough  blessed  be  God  for  any  one ;  it  is  a  great  miracle  if  one  camel 
pass  through  the  eye  of  a  needle  :  or,  in  otlier  worda,  if  one  rich  man 
enters  into  the  kingdom  of  heayen.  I  have  been  sowing  the  seed 
the  Lord  hath  given  mc,  both  in  Bath  and  Bristol,  and  I  hope  your 
prayers  have  not  been  lost  upon  me  as  a  minister ;  for  thougfi  I  have 
not  been  enabled  to  discharge  my  ofiice  as  I  would^  the  Lord  hath  yet^ 
in  some  measure,  stood  by  me,  and  overruled  my  foolishness  and  help- 
lessness. I  am  much  supported  by  the  thought  that  you  bear  me  on 
your  hearts,  and  when  you  come  to  the  throne  of  £race  ask  a  blessing 
for  me  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  and  that  the  Lord  doth  in  no  wise  cast 
you  out." 

Lord  and  Lady  Glenorchy  had  but  lately  returned  from  the 
Continent,  and  at  this  time  rei»ided  at  Great  Sugnali  a  place  at 
a  short  distance  from  Hawkestonei  the  celebrated  seat  of  Sir 
Rowland  Hill,  Bart.  At  this  time,  several  of  the  younger 
branches  of  this  family^  Mr.  Richard  Hill,  the  Rev.  Rowland 
Hill,  Miss  Hill,  their  eldest  sister,  and  another  sister,  Elizabeth, 
who  afterwards  married  Clement  Tudway,  Esq.,  Member  of 
Parliament  for  Wells,  were  of  decidedly  pious  character,  and 
bore  the  reproach  ordinarily  connected  with  it,  fix)m  thethougbt- 
'  less,  the  formal,  and  the  profligate.  Lady  Glenorchy  vbited 
this  &mily,  became  intimate  with  it,  revered  and  loved  its 
members,  and  secretly  wished  that  she  were  like  them.      Hap- 

Eily  the  time  was  at  hand  in  which  God  fulfilled  these  desires  of 
er  heart. 
Lady  Glenorchy  was  not  yet  twenty-four,  and  Miss  Hill  was 
aboRt  her  own  age,  or  perhaps  somewhat  older.  They  had 
before  been  intimate,  from  this  time  they  became  bosom  friends. 
The  goodness  of  God  was  very  evident  in  providing  for  Lady 
Glenorchy  an  adviser  so  well  informed,  so  wise,  and  prudent) 
so  faithful  and  affectionate.  In  the  summer  of  1 766  her  Lady- 
ship was  seized  with  a  dangerous  putrid  fever,  and  was  confined 
to  her  bed  for  a  considerable  time.  On  her  convalescence,  by  a 
singular  circumstance  in  Providence,  a  train  of  serious  thoughts 
and  reasonings  was  produced,  followed  by  convictions  and  pur- 
poses which  ended  in  a  complete  renovation  of  heart  and  con- 
duct. From  that  interesting  moment,  without  hesitation  or 
conferring  with  flesh  and  blowl,  she  resolutely  turned  her  back 
on  the  dissipated  world,  and  without  reserve  devoted  herself,  and 
all  that  she  could  command  and  influence,  to  the  service  of 
Christ  and  the  glory  of  God ;  and  in  this  she  invariably  per- 
sisted to  her  latest  breath. 

In  order  to  divert  her  mind  from  those  serious  subjects  which 
occupied  it,  Lord  Glenorchy  was  advised  to  leave  the  countiy. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  47l 

at  an  earlier  season  of  the  year  than  usual,  for  London  and  Bath, 
where  every  means  were  employed  to  induce  her  to  return  to 
the  gaieties  of  the  world.  Her  judgment  and  her  conscience, 
however,  were  decidedly  against  it :  and  neither  severity  or  art 
(both  were  put  in  practice)  could  divert  her  from  her  purpose. 
Just  at  this  juncture,  her  intimacy  with  Lady  Huntingdon  was 
of  the  most  essential  service  to  her.  The  excellent  advice 
and  heart-searching  conversation  of  the  Countess,  united  with 
the  preaching  of  Mr.  Madan,  Mr.  Romaine,  and  other  ministers, 
contributed  to  establish  and  conBrm  her  in  the  faith  and  hope 
of  the  Gospel.  Lady  Glenorchy's  future  path  of  Ufa  lay  through 
evil  report  and  through  good  report ;  in  the  midst  of  deep  ad- 
versity and  high  prosperity ;  of  severe  trials  and  strong  tempta- 
tions, both  temporal  and  spiritual ;  but  none  of  these  thmgs 
moved  her  from  the  steadfastness  of  her  Christian  profession. 
Although  her  road  was  often  rough  in  the  extreme,  and  her 
enemies  cruel,  strong,  and  numerous,  yet  on  she  went  in  her 
Christian  course,  never  deviating  to  the  right  hand  nor  to  the 
left,  but  ever  pressing  towards  the  mark  for  the  prize  of  her  high 
calling  of  God  in  Christ  Jesus. 

Lady  Glenorchy  was  destined  to  be  the  Selina  of  Scotland. 
Lady  Huntingdon  was  her  model,  although  her  biographer 
seems  to  have  forgotten  the  fact.  She  derived  great  spintual 
benefit,  and  caught  her  inspiration  in  the  cause  of  God  from 
the  example  and  the  chaplains  of  the  Countess.  Dr.  Thomas 
Snell  Jones,  who  had  received  his  education  at  Trevecca,  was 
supplying  the  Tabernacle  at  Plymouth,  having  been  sent  thither 
by  Lady  Huntingdon,  when  first  introduced  to  the  notice  of 
Lady  Glenorchy,  whose  chaplain  and  biographer  he  eventually 
became.  It  is  somewhat  extraordinary  that  Dr.  Jones  should  have 
made  so  little  mention  of  his  former  noble  patroness,  to  whom  he 
was  so  deeply  indebted,  or  of  the  long  and  very  intimate  con- 
nexion and  correspondence  that  existed  between  these  excellent 
women.  Her  Ladyship  left  Bath  in  the  spring ;  and  soon  after 
her  arrival  in  Edinburgh,  thus  expressed  her  gratitude  and 
thanks  to  Lady  Huntingdon  for  the  inestimable  benefits  she  had 
reaped  from  her  conversation  and  society : — 

"  My  dear  Madam, — How  shall  I  express  the  sense  I  have  of  your 
goodness  ? — it  is  impossible  in  words.  But  my  comfort  is,  that  the 
Lord  knows  the  grateful  thoughts  of  my  heart,  and  he  will  amply  re- 
ward you  for  the  kindness  you  have  shown  a  poor  unworthy  creature, 
whom  blindness  and  ignorance  render  an  object  of  pity.  When  you 
say  your  heart  is  attached  to  me,  I  tremble  lest  I  should  prove  an  ad- 
ditional cross  to  you  in  the  end,  and  the  pain  I  suffer  in  the  apprehen- 
sion of  this  is  aospeakahle.  I  hope  die  Lord  pezmita  it  aa  a  spur  to 
Q  Q  2 


472  THE  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

me  to  be  watchful,  find  to  keep  near  to  him  who  alone  is  able  to  keep 
me  from  falling.  1  can  truly  say^  thai  next  to  the  favour  of  God,  my 
utmost  ambition  is  to  be  found  worthy  of  the  regard  which  your  Lady- 
ship is  pleased  to  honour  me  withy  and  to  be  one  of  those  who  shall  make 
up  the  crown  of  rejoicing  for  you  in  the  day  of  our  Lord. 

"  I  am  sorry  to  take  up  more  of  your  precious  time  than  is  needful 
to  express  my  gratitude  for  the  obliging  lines  your  Ladyship  favoured 
me  with  ;  and  will  only  add,  that  I  ever  am,  with  the  greatest  respect 
and  affection,  my  dear,  and  much-honoured  Madam,  your  most  obedient 
servant,  "  VV".  Glbnorchy." 

Suffering  under  a  depression  of  spirits  by  the  untimely  death 
of  their  eldest  daughter,  Lord  and  Lady  Sutherland  sought  re- 
lief by  change  in  the  society  and  amusements  of  Bath,  where 
they  arrived  shortly  after  Lady  Glenorchy  had  departed  for 
Scotland.  Lady  Sutherland  was  the  only  sister  of  Lady  Glen- 
orchy, who  introduced  her  by  letter  to  the  notice  and  attention 
of  Lady  Huntingdon : — 

"  Never  (says  her  Ladyship)  have  I  seen  a  more  lovely  couple— 
they  may,  indeed,  with  justice,  be  called,  the  Flower  of  Scotland — and 
such  amiability  of  disposition,  so  teachable,  so  mild !  They  have,  in- 
deed, been  cast  in  Nature's  finest  mould.  Bowed  down  to  the  earth 
by  grief,  they  are  almost  inconsolable  for  the  loss  of  their  daughter. 
The  good  Providence  of  God  has,  I  hope,  directed  them  to  this  place, 
in  order  to  divert  their  attention  from  their  recent  loss,  and  lead  them 
to  the  fountain  of  living  waters,  from  whence  to  draw  all  the  consola- 
tion and  comfort  they  stand  in  need  of.  May  the  word  of  the  Lord 
be  powerfully  applied  to  their  hearts  in  this  season  of  trial !  Dear 
Lady  Glenorchy  is  extremely  anxious  on  their  account." 

At  this  critical  moment  Mr.  Whitefield  returned  to  Bath,  and 
the  youthful  Earl  and  Countess  of  Sutherland  were  induced  to 
attend  his  preaching : — 

"  Last  Friday  evening  Tsays  he)  and  twice  yesterday,  I  preached  at 
Bath  to  very  thronged  ana  brilliant  auditories.  I  am  told  it  was  a  very 
high  day.  The  glory  of  the  Lord  filled  the  house.  To-morrow,  God 
willing,  I  return  thither  again.  Mr.  Townsend  is  too  ill  to  officiate. 
Lady  Huntingdon  is  mounting  on  her  high  places." 

But  one  affliction  rapidly  succeeded  another.  Soon  after 
their  arrival,  the  Earl  was  attacked  with  a  putrid  fever,  with 
which  he  struggled  for  ffly-four  days,  and  then  expired.  The 
attentions  of  tne  Countess,  who  was  devoted  to  her  Lord,  were 
50  unremitting — having  watched  him  in  his  chamber  for  tioenty^ 
one  nights  and  days  witliout  intermission  or  retiring  to  rest — that 
at  last,  overcome  with  fatigue,  anxiety,  and  grief,  she  sunk,  an 
unavailing  victim  to  an  amiable,  but  excessive  attachment,  seven- 
teen days  before  the  death  of  her  Lord.     In  this  season  of  sorest 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  473 

anguish,  Lady  Huntingdon  had  several  interviews  with  Lady 
Sutherland,  and  endeavoured  to  ^pour  into  her  bleeding  heart  all 
the  consolation  and  comfort  which  the  religion  of  Jesus  can  im- 
part. Prayer,  both  public  and  private,  was  incessantly  offered 
up  on  their  behalf.     The  best  medical  advice  was  of  no  avail. 

**  Every  body  (says  Lady  Huntingdon)  was  interested  about  them, 
and  I  never  saw  such  a  universal  concern  at  the  death  of  any  persons 
before.  Many  seem  cut  to  the  heart — others  plunged  into  the  deepest 
grief.  It  Las  been  a  most  awful  event,  and  has  brought  many  to  the 
chapel  who  had  hitherto  refused  to  enter  it." 

P  Lady  Sutherland  was  in  her  twenty-fifth  year,  and  Lord 
Sutherland  in  his  thirty-first.  They  left  an  infant  daughter. 
Lady  Elizabeth,  who  succeeded  her  father  in  the  honours  of 
Sutherland,  and  who,  having  married  the  late  Marquis  of 
Stafford,  survived  him  and  the  Duchess-Countess  Dowager  of 
Sutherland,  and  died  only  a  few  months  since.*  Thus  the  vene- 
rable Countess  of  Huntingdon,  and  her  celebrated  chaplain,  tlie 
apostolic  Whitefield,  ministered  to  her  Grace's  suffering  parents, 
when  she  was  an  unconscious  infant ! 

This  melancholy  event  spread  a  general  gloom  over  the  gay 
inhabitants  of  Bath.  Two  sermons  were  preached  on  the  occa- 
sion in  Lady  Huntingdon's  chapel,  attended  by  almost  all 
the  nobility  then  in  Bath,  many  of  whom  seemed  to  feel  the 
awful  Providence.  A  remarkable  circumstance  aggravated  this 
bereavement  to  the  family.  Strange  and  unaccountable  as  the 
circumstance  may  appear,  yet  it  is  a  fact  of  which  there  can  bo 
no  doubt,  that  Lady  Sutherland's  mother,  Lady  Alava,  knew 
nothing  of  the  death  of  her  daughter  for  nearly  three  weeks 
after  the  event  had  taken  place.  The  death  oi  her  daughter 
had  been  concealed  from  her,  and  only  that  of  Lord  Sutherland 
communicated.  The  way  in  which  she  at  last  became  acquainted 
with  it  was  in  itself  particularly  singular  and  affecting.  Whilst 
I^dy  Alava  was  hastening  from  Scotland  to  the  assistance  of  her 
daughter,  she  happened  to  alight  from  her  carriage  at  the  door 
of  an  inn,  on  the  road  to  Bath,  where  she  saw  two  hearses  stand- 
ing. Upon  inquiring  whose  remains  they  contained,  she  was 
told  they  were  those  of  Lord  and  Lady  Sutherland,  on  their 
way  to  Scotland  for  interment ! 

Soon  after  the  death  of  the  Earl  and  Countess  of  Sutherland, 
Lady  Huntingdon  left  Bath,  and  proceeded  to  Brighton,  where 
she  remained  the  principal  part  of  the  summer.     About  the 

•  The  Duchess  Counteas  of  Sutherland  died  in  London,  in  February,  1839. 
Her  remains  were  conveyed  (in  a  steam  boat)  to  Aberdeen,  to  be  deposited  iq 
the  vault  of  her  ancestort. 


474  THE  LIF£  AIQD  TIBCES  OF 

same  time  Mr.  Whitefield  appears  to  have  ^one  to  Bath,  where 
his  health  became  so  much  impaired  by  his  exertions,  that  he 
was  obliged  to  retire  to  Cottam,  near  Bristol,  for  a  few  weeks. 
But  his  active  spirit  was  not  idle  there  : — 

"  As  my  feverish  heat  continues  (says  he),  and  the  weather  is  too 
wet  to  travel,  I  have  complied  with  the  advice  of  friends,  and  have 
commenced  hot-well-water-drinker  twice  a  day.  However,  twice  this 
week,  at  six  in  the  morning,  I  have  been  enabled  to  call  thirsty  souls 
to  come  and  drink  of  the  water  of  life  freely.  To-morrow  evening, 
God  willing,  the  call  is  to  be  repeated.  Qood  seasons  at  Bath.  Good 
seasons  here.     Large  auditories.     Grace  I     Grace ! 

Towards  the  end  of  August  Mr.  Wesley,  being  in  Bath,  was 
invited,  as  usual,  to  preach  in  her  Ladyship's  chapel.  "  Many," 
says  he,  *^  were  not  a  little  surprised  at  seeing  me  m  the  Countess 
of  Huntingdon's  chapel.  The  congregation  was  not  only  large 
but  serious ;  and  I  fully  delivered  nry  own  soul." 

Hitherto  Mr.  Wesley  and  Mr.  Whitefield  had  interchanged 
letters  not  very  frequently,  and  they  preached  occasionally  in 
each  other's  pulpits ;  but  there  was  no  cordial  intercourse — no 
hearty  co-operation.  Such  a  wound  as  had  been  made  in  their 
friendships  always  leaves  a  scar,  however  well,  to  outward 
appearance,  it  may  have  healed.  Nevertheless,  they  did  justice 
to  each  other's  intentions  and  virtues;  and  old  feelings  rose  again, 
as  from  the  dead,  like  the  blossoming  of  spring  flowers  in  au- 
tumn, which  reminds  us  that  the  season  of  nope  and  of  joy  is 
gone.  It  is  pleasant  to  observe,  that  this  tenderness  increased 
as  they  advanced  towards  the  decline  of  life.  When  Mr.  White- 
field  returned  from  America  to  England,  for  the  last  time,  Mr. 
Wesley  was  struck  with  the  change  in  his  appearance :  ^^  He 
seemed,"  says  he,  in  his  Journal,  '*  to  be  an  old  man,  being 
fairly  worn  out  in  his  Master's  service,  though  he  has  hardly 
seen  fifty  years."  Mr.  Whitefield,  at  this  time,  to  use  Mr. 
Wesley's  language,  breathed  nothing  but  peace  and  love. 
**  Bigotry,"  says  he,  "  cannot  stand  before  him,  but  hides  its 
head  wherever  he  comes."  On  a  summons  from  Lady  Hunting- 
don, Mr.  Wesley  hastened  from  Yorkshire  to  meet  Mr.  White- 
field  in  London : — 

**  And  if  no  other  good  result  from  it  (says  Mr.  Wesley)  but  our 

firm  union  with  Mr.  Whitefield,  it  is  an  abundant  recompense  for  my 

labour.     My  brother  and  I  conferred  with  him  every  day  :  and  let  the 

X  lionourable  men  do  what  they  please,  we  resolved,  by  the  grace  of 

God,  to  go  on,  hand  in  band,  through  honour  and  dishonour.** 

Mr.  Wesley's  plan  of  union  amongst  the  Evangelical  clergy- 
men in  diflerent  parts  of  England,  at  that  period  not  more  than 


SELINA9  COUNTESS  Of  HUNTINGDON.  475 

forty  in  number,  not  haying  met  with  any  cordial  support,  it  was 
agreed,  about  this  time,  that  Lady  Hunting^don,  Mr.  White6eld, 
Mr.  John  and  Mr.  Charles  Wesley,  should  meet  as  frequently 
as  conrentent,  and  co-operate  with  each  other  in  the  general 
diffusion  of  divine  truth.  That  this  alliance  had  been  entered 
into  is  certain ;  but  we  cannot  concur  with  Southey,  in  his  Life 
of  Mr.  Wesley,  imputing  the  non-fulfilment  of  it  to  what  he  is 
pleased  to  call  the  ^^  bigotry  and  intolerance  of  Lady  Hunting- 
don and  a  clique  of  Calvinistic  clergy,"  whom  she  had  collected 
around  her.  Mr.  Charles  Wesley  was  of  a  different  opinion. 
In  a  letter  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  written  after  the  pubhcation 
of  the  Minutes  of  Conference  of  1770,  and  after  Mr.  John 
Wesley  had  preached  Mr.  Whitefield's  funeral  sermon  at  the 
Tabernacle,  he  remarks : — 

^  Fotf  remember  a  sort  of  quadruple  alliaQce  entered  into  three  or 
four  years  ago,  which  one  of  the  parties  never  thought  offrwn  that  day 
to  this.  How  icon  is  that  ftlliance  come  to  nothmg  I  One  is  safely 
landed — another  removed  to  an  immeasurable  distance — while  yet  we 
lire,  scarce  one  short  year  perhaps^  betwixt  us  two  let  there  be  peace ! 
I  am  very  sensible  that  my  night  cometh ;  my  course  is  well-nigh 
finished,  and  I  pray  and  hope  my  work  and  life  will  end  together.  I 
expect  to  be  in  town  the  b^inning  of  Febmary,  without  my  family* 
There^  and  in  all  places  let  me  find  the  benefit  of  your  prayers,  till  I 
akio  arrire  where  the  wicked  cease  firom  troabling-— where  the  weary 
are  at  rest  T 

That  Mr.  Wesley  had  entered  into  this  alliance  is  further 
evident  from  the  offer  which  he  made  to  Lady  Huntingdon,  of 
supplying  her  chapel  at  Bath,  during  his  stay  at  Bristol.  Her 
Ladyship's  reply  to  Mr.  Wesley,  expressing  her  gratitude  for  his 
kind  oner,  and  his  universal  devotednesa  to  the  glory  of  theii 
divine  Master,  and  the  souls  redeemed  by  his  blood,  will  be 
read  with  deep  interest  Southey  might  have  had  access  to 
this  document,  as  it  appeared  in  the  twentieth  volume  of  the 
Methodist  Magazine^  and  it  would  have  corrected  one  of  the 
numerous  blunders,  false  statements,  and  wilful  misrepresenta- 
tions, with  which  his  work  everywhere  abounds. 

"^  September  14, 1766. 
^  My  dear  Sir, — I  am  most  bighly  obliged  by  your  kind  offer  of 
serving  the  cbapel  at  Bath  daring  yonr  stay  at  Bristol ;  I  mean  on 
Sundays.  It  is  the  most  important  time,  beinp  the  hei^t  of  the  latter 
season,  when  the  great  of  this  world  are  only  m  the  reach  of  the  sound 
of  the  (}ospel  from  that  quarter.  The  mornings  are  their  time — the 
evenings  the  inhabitants  <miefly.  I  do  trust  that  this  union  which  is 
csmmimced  will  be  for  the  furtherance  of  our  faith  and  mutual  love  to 
each  other.    It  is  for  the  interest  of  the  beat  of  causes  that  weshould 


476  THE  LIPC  AND  TIMES  OF 

all  be  founds  first^  faithfal  to  the  Lord,  and  theu  to  each  other.  I  find 
something  wantbg^  and  that  is  a  meeting  now  and  then  agreed  upon 
that  you,  your  brother,  Mr.  Whitcficld,  and  I,  should  at  times  be  glad 
r^;ular]y  to  communicate  our  observations  upon  the  general  state  of 
the  work.  Light  might  follow^  and  would  be  a  kind  of  guide  to  me, 
as  I  am  connected  with  many. 

^  Universal  and  constant  usefulness  to  all,  is  the  important  lesson. 
And  when  we  are  fully  and  wholly  given  up  to  the  Lord,  I  am  sure 
the  heart  can  long  for  nothing  so  much  as  that  our  time,  talents^  life, 
soul,  and  spirit,  may  become  upon  earth  a  constant  and  living  sacrifice. 
How  I  can  be  most  so,  that  is  the  one  object  of  my  poor  heart  There- 
fore, to  have  all  the  light  that  is  possible,  to  see  my  way  in  tins  matter 
is  my  prayer  day  and  night ;  for  worthy  is  the  Lamb  to  receive  all 
honour  and  glory,  and  blessing. 

^  What  you  say  of  reproach,  I  hope  never  to  be  without,  so  that  it 
be  for  obeying.  I  am  honoured  by  every  degree  of  contempt,  while 
my  heart  has  its  faithful  testimony  before  him  who  can  search  it  to  the 
bottom,  and  knows  that  his  glory  and  the  eood  of  souls  is  my  one  object 
upon  earth.  I  shall  turn  coward,  and  £sgrace  you  all,  when  I  luive 
any  worse  ground  to  stand  upon,  and  I  am  sure  my  prayer  will  be  an- 
swered which  has  been  made  for  these  seven-and-twenty  years,  that 
whenever  his  eye,  which  is  as  a  flame  of  fire,  sees  any  ouer  end  or 
purpose  of  my  heart  he  will  remove  my  poor  wretched  being  from  this 
earth.  But  so  vile,  and  foolish,  and  helpless  as  I  am,  he  keeps  my 
heart  full  of  faith  that  he  never  will  leave  me  nor  forsake  me :  having 
neither  help  nor  hope,  but  that  he  will  each  moment  prove  the  Lord, 
the  Lord  full  of  mercy  and  compassionate  love,  to  such  a  poor  worm. 
Pray,  when  you  have  leisure,  let  me  hear  from  you,  and  helieve  me 
most  faithfully,  your  affectionate  friend, 

"S.  Huntingdon." 

Lady  Huntingdon's  chapel  was  at  this  time  principally  sup- 
plied by  Mr.  M^an  and  Mr.  Townsend,  and  two  Welsh  clergy- 
men of  great  notoriety,  Mr.  Howel  Davies  and  Mr.  Daniel 
Rowlands,  with  the  occasional  assistance  of  Mr.  Whitefield,  who 

fenerally  preached  once,  and  sometimes  twice  a  week,  besides 
is  stated  labours  at  Clifton  and  Bristol.  On  Mr.  Madan 
leaving  Bath  for  Aldwincle,  in  Northamptonshire,  whither  he 
went  to  preach  for  Dr.  Haweis,  Mr.  Romame  supplied  his  place 
during  the  months  of  October  and  November.  Early  in  the 
month  of  October  Mr.  Wesley  arrived  in  Bath,  and  during  his 
stay  preached  frequently  in  her  Ladyship's  chapel.     Being  very 

Eopuiar  at  this  time,  he  was  remarkably  well  attended,  and  his 
ibours  were  not  altogether  in  vain  in  the  Lord.  On  Sunday, 
the  5th  of  October,  at  eight  o'clock  in  the  morning,  he  admi- 
nistered the  Sacrament,  and  at  eleven  preached  on  these  words 
in  the  Gospel  of  the  diay — "  Thou  ghalt  love  thy  neighbour  as 
thyself,"    « The  word,'^  says  Mn  Wesley,  "  was  quick  and 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OV  HUNTINGDON.  477 

powerful,  and  I  trust  many,  even  of ,  the  rich  and  great,  felt 
themselves  sinners  before  6od." 

At  this  period  Horace  Walpole  visited  Bath.  There  was  a 
sort  of  family  connexion  between  the  Walpole  and  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon.* And,  therefore,  perhaps,  Horace  Walpole  accom- 
panied his  friends.  Lord  and  Lady  Powys,  to  the  cnapel.  Mr. 
Wesley  was  the  preacher,  but  the  chapel  itself  was  attractive  : — 

^'  They  have  (says  he)  boys  and  girls  with  charming  voices  that  sing 
hymns  in  parts.  The  chapel  is  very  neat,  %vith  true  Gothic  windows. 
I  was  glad  to  see  that  luxury  is  creeping  in  upon  them  before  perse- 
cution. They  have  very  neat  mahogany  stands  for  branches,  and 
brackets  of  the  same  in  taste.  At  the  upper  end  is  a  broad  hautpas  of 
four  steps,  advancing  in  the  middle ;  at  each  end  of  the  broadest  part 
are  two  eagles  with  red  cushions  for  the  parson  and  clerk.  Behind 
them  lise  three  more  steps,  in  the  midst  of  which  is  a  third  eagle  for 
a  pulpit.  Scarlet  arm  chairs  to  all  three.  On  cither  hand  a  balcony 
for  elect  ladies.  The  rest  of  the  conCTegation  sit  on  forms.  Behind 
the  pit,  in  a  dark  niche,  is  a  plain  table  within  rails ;  so  you  see  the 
throne  is  for  the  apostle.  Wesley  is  a  clean  elderly  man,  frc^  coloured^ 
his  hair  smoothly  combed,  but  with  a  little  soupcon  of  curl  at  the  ends. 
Wondrous  clever,  but  as  evidently  an  actor  as  Garrick,  He  spoke  his 
sermon,  but  so  fast,  and  with  so  little  accent,  that  I  am  sure  he  has 
often  uttered  it,  for  it  was  like  a  lesson.  There  were  parts  and  elo- 
quence in  it ;  but  towards  the  end  he  exalted  his  voice,  and  acted  very 
Tulgar  enthusiasm."t 

There  were  several  personsof  distinction  at  this  time  in  Bath, 
almost  all  of  whom,  according  to  Walpole,  were  constantly  in 
the  habit  of  attending  divine  service  at  Lady  Huntingdon's 
chapel.  Indeed,  he  says,  it  was  quite  the  rage  amongst  persons 
in  high  life  to  form  parties  to  hear  the  different  preachers  who 

*  Margaret  Rolle,  a  great  Devonshire  heiress,  the  wife  of  Robert  Lord  Wal- 
pole, afterwards  Earl  of  Or  ford,  separated  from  her  husband,  and  quarrelled 
Tiolendy  with  his  whole  family.  On  the  death  of  Lord  Orford  she  married 
the  Hon.  Sewailis  Shirley,  uncle  to  Lady  Hunting|don,  from  whom  she  also 
lepanted  in  1754.  She  affected,  at  times,  great  friendship  for  Lady  Hunting. 
don,  and  often  attended  her  chapeb,  aud  the  preaching  at  her  house.  She  was 
a  woman  of  very  singular  character,  and  considered  half  mad ;  this  last  quality 
she  communicated  to  her  unfortunate  son,  Geoiige,  third  Earl  of  Orfoid,  the 
nephew  of  Horace  Walpole.  In  1751  she  succeeded,  in  her  own  right,  to  the 
Baronies  of  Clinton  ana  Say,  on  the  death  of  Hugh,  Earl  Clinton.  She  died 
at  Pisa,  in  Italy,  in  1781 ,  and  was  buried  at  Leghorn. 

f  There  was  something  else  which  Walpole  did  not  know  of ;— a  seat  for 
Bishops.  It  was  often  occupied  too  1  The  witty  and  eccentric  Lad^  Betty 
Cobbe,  daughter-in-law  of  Dr.  Charies  Cobbe,  Archbishop  of  Dublm,  was 
courin-gerroan  to  Ladj  Huntingdon.  Her  influence  was  extensi\'e,  and  free- 
qoently  exerted  in  bringing  Bishops  to  the  chapel,  whom  she  always  contrived 
to  amuggk  into  the  ctartamed  §eats  immediately  inside  the  door,  where  they 
beard  without  undergoing  the  dreadful  disgrace  of  being  seen  in  such  a  place, 
seat  Lady  Betty  fiicetioualy  termed  **  Iiicodemm$*$  corner  /* 


478  TRB  LUTE  AVD  TIMES  OF 

supplied  the  chapel.  Amongst  these  he  enumerates  Lord 
Camden  (then  Lord  High'  Chancellor  of  England)^  Lord  North- 
ington  (Lord  President  o(  the  Council),  Earl  Chatham  and 
family.  Lord  Rockingham,  Lady  Malpas,  Lord  and  Lady  Powys, 
Lord  and  Lady  Buchan  and  family.  Miss  Rich  (sister  to  Lord 
Lyttleton),  the  Duke  of  Bedford  and  family,  Mr.  and  Lady 
Lucy  Trevor,  &c.* 

Early  in  the  month  of  November,  we  find  Mr.  Whitefield  again 
at  Bath.  He  and  Mr.  Romaine  preached  alternately  at  I^dy 
Huntingdon's  chapel  to  very  numerous  and  attentive  auditories. 
**  Bath  air  (says  Mr.  Whiteneld)  will  never  agree  with  me  long. 
However,  if  good  is  done,  all  will  be  well.  Sunday  and  last 
night  were  seasons  of  power.  Some,  we  trust,  were  made 
wiUing."  During  his  stay  at  Bath  his  health  was  indiflTerent,  but 
he  went  occasionally  to  Bristol,  where  he  preached  to  very 
crowded  congregations.  On  one  occasion  he  administered  the 
sacrament  there,  and  used  eiaht  bottles  of  wine.  His  popularity 
continued  to  increase  at  Bath,  and  many  of  the  nobility  who  had 
not  before  heard  him,  were  now  eager  to  attend  his  ministry. 

^  Such  a  nameiDiis  and  brilliant  assembly  (says  he)  oi  the  m^hty 
and  noble,  I  never  saw  attend  before  at  Batn.  Every  thing  is  so 
promising,  that  I  am  constrained  to  giye  noiicd  of  preaching  next  Son- 
day.  I  hope  the  Redeemer  will  give  us  a  blessed  Sabbath.  I  trust 
already  the  arm  of  the  Lord  hath  been  revealed.  Congregations  have 
been  very  large  and  very  solemn.  0,  what  bethels  bath  Jesus  given 
to  us  r    We  were  filled  as  with  new  wine !" 

Receiving  an  invitation  from  Mr.  Stillingfleet  to  visit  Oxford, 
on  his  return  to  London,  Mr.  Whitefield  resolved  to  go  thither 
immediately : — 

**  And  have,  therefore  (says  he),  written  to  dear  Mr.  Jesse  to  stay 
two  or  three  weeks  at  London.     Mr.  Howel  Davies,  who,  they  say, 

*  Amongst  the  namber  of  the  great  and  honourable  who  at  that  period  fre- 
quented her  Ladyship's  chimel,  was  to  be  found  Dr.  William  Barnard,  formerly 
Dean  of  Rochester,  but  at  that  time  Bishop  of  Derry,  a  man  advanced  in  years, 
and  one  who  professed  a  friendship  for  those  who  were  stigmatized  Mrith  the 
name  of  Methodist.  It  was  at  the  recommendation  of  Mr.  Wesley  that  his 
Lordship  ordained  Mr.  Maxwell,  the  first  Methodist  lay-preacher.  Increasing 
infirmities  obliged  his  Lordship  to  reside  at  Bath,  where  he  had  frequent  oppor- 
tunities of  enjoying  the  society  of  Lady  Huntingdon,  to  whom  he  was  introduced 
by  Lady  Betty  Cobbe.  The  Bishop  frequently  accompanied  Lady  Betty  to 
hear  the  Methodists  unseen,  and  was  always  rery  friendly  towards  the  ministers 
who  supplied  the  chapel.  On  one  occasion  Mr.  Wesley  says — **  In  the  evening 
I  left  London,  and  reached  Bath  on  Tuesday,  in  the  afternoon,  time  enough  to 
wait  on  that  memorable  man,  the  Bishop  of  Londonderry.  After  spending  an 
agreeable  and  profitable  hour  with  him,  my  brother  read  prayers,  and  I  preached 
in  Lady  Huntingdon's  chapel.  I  know  not  when  I  have  seen  a  more  serious, 
a  more  deeply  attentive  conp^regation.  Is  it  powible?  Can  the  Go^^d  have 
place  where  Satan  a  throne  la  ?^ 


SELINA,  C0UKTE8S  OV  HUKTtKGDON.  47 

is  expected  here  next  week,  may  then  officiate  for  that  space  of  time  at 
Bath,  and,  at  Mr.  Jesse's  leaving  Londoa,  may  go  up  to  town.  I  beg 
Captain  Joss  may  go  through  with  the  Tabernacle  work,  and  stick  to 
it  with  his  whole  heart*" 

Mr.  Whitefield  was  followed  by  Mr.  Venn,  one  of  the  most 
{)owerful  and  successfully  pious  preachers  of  the  time ;  but  he 
was  not  only  distinguisned  as  a  minister ;  as  a  companion  be 
was  the  most  a^^reeable  man  imaginable ;  be  had  a  flow  of  con* 
yersation  which  never  ceased  to  delight  and  edify ;  and,  out  of 
a  store  of  anecdotes  treasured  up  in  his  noemory,  produced  a 
fund  of  entertainment  as  well  as  usefulness,  which  those  who 
were  his  favoured  companions  seldom  forgot.* 

In  his  journey  from  Brighton  to  Bath,  Mr.  Venn  paid  a  visit 
to  his  valued  friend,  Mr.  Townsend,  at  Pewsey. 

*'  That  dear  minister  (eays  he),  has  a  single  eye  and  a  warm  heart 
Three  young  students  are  in  his  house,  in  order  to  prepare  for  the 
ministry.  Here  I  spoke  the  word  of  life  to  a  small  chorch-full  and  to 
a  large  room-full  afterwards ;  and,  though  the  sphere  of  action  in  his 
parish  is  small,  yet  round  about  tliere  are  a  great  number  of  souls 
awakened  and  some  who  know  the  Lord  to  be  their  God." 

In  his  letter  to  Miss  Wheeler,  niece  to  Lady  Huntingdon) 

*  One  proof  of  his  cheerfulness  may  take  the  form  of  an  anecdote : — VaMtSatg 
through  Towcester,  in  one  of  his  preaching  ezcurnoBS  for  Lad^  Huntingdon,  1m 
asked  the  innkeeper  where  he  put  up,  it  being  Saturday  mormng,  who  was  the 
vicar,  and,  as  he  should  stay  the  next  day,  whether  he  would  be  glad  of  assist- 
ance ?  "  Oh  I  yes,  (said  the  Landlord),  I  dare  say,  Sir,  he  will  be  glad  to  haw 
his  duty  done.*^  *^  Then  carry  my  compliments,  and  say  a  dergyman  out  of 
Yorkshire  is  passing,  and  will  stay  to-morrow  at  the  inn,  and  ii  ready  to  read  or 
preach  for  him,  if  he  needs  assistance.**  Away  went  the  innkeeper  with  what 
lie  thought  welcome  intelligence,  to  the  parson.  **  ^hidlr  (said  the  vicar) ; 
but  what  sort  of  a  man  is  the  Yorkshire  clergyman  ?  There  are  Meihodiat 
vagrants  you  know — eh  I**  Theinnkeeper  laughed,  shook  his  head,  and  renlied, 
*'  Ah !  Sir,  only  look  at  his  face  and  nose,  and  you  will  see  he  is  not  one  oi  that 
sort.**  In  truth,  a  nibicundity  of  face  and  rotundity  of  form  gave  Mr.  Vena  no 
very  Method istical  appearance.  **  Well  (said  the  vicar),  let  him  come  to  me 
in  the  morning,  and  then  I  will  see  whether  I  like  him  to  preach  or  pray.** 
The  landlord  returned  with  the  message,  and  the  next  morning  Mr.  Venn  waited 
on  his  reverend  brother ;  **  Sir  (says  he,  after  the  first  bows),  you  are  firom 
Yorkshire  ?'*  '*  I  am."  "  Will  you  drink  a  dram  this  morning?*'  "  I  have 
no  objection.**  The  bottle  came  from  the  closet,  and  Air.  Venn  took  a  aip.  His 
character  was  now  decided.  ^  Sir,  vou  will  preach  for  me  this  morning?** 
*'  With  pleasure.**  Robed  and  ready,  they  parted  to  the  Church,  and  Mr.  Venn 
to  the  pulpit  There,  his  Bible  no  sooner  opened,  than  the  congregation  stared, 
and  the  vicar  hid  his  face  in  the  suiplice.  The  energetic  truth  awakened  up  aa 
attention  to  which  that  congregaUon  had  been  little  accustomed.  The  viour 
was  done,  and  left  Mr.  Venn  to  retire  to  his  inn  alone.  A  very  limilar  inddem 
occurred  during  thin  visit  to  Bath,  and  is  given  in  Mr.  Venn's  Life,  by  bit 
grandson.  The  anecdote  we  have  just  related  is  given  verbatim  firom  th« 
mouth  of  Dr.  Haweis. 


480  TH£  LIFE  AND  TIMES  OF 

and  one  of  the  daughters  of  Lady  Catharine  Wheeler,  Mr, 
Venn  says : — 

**  At  Bath  we  heard  Mr.  Romaine,  m  the  plain  but  elegant  chapel 
of  Lady  Huntingdon.  He  was  very  well  attended  on  the  week  days, 
but  on  Sundays  the  chapel  is  crowded.  My  kind  friend,  Miss  Gideon, 
I  had  both  the  pleasure  and  grief  of  seeing,  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ro- 
maine ;  the  pleasure,  because  she  triumphs  in  the  blood  of  the  Cross, 
and  is,  indeea,  an  ornament  to  her  Christian  faith ;  but  it  was  a  grief 
to  see  her  labouring  under  a  complication  of  diseases,  and  one  among 
these  the  dropsy,  so  tbat  Dr.  Moisey  told  me  he  apprehended  there  was 
great  danger  of  her  soon  being  called  hence.  Yet  >vhich  of  her  friends 
can  coolly  wish  her  to  stay  ?  as,  not  only  a  most  infirm  afllicted  body 
prevents  the  full  exercise  of  her  mental  powers,  but  even  in  our  best 
estate  of  body  here,  how  poor,  how  sinful  is  the  soul !  We  cannot 
possibly  be  like  Jesus  till  we  see  him  as  he  is." 

Mr.  Andrews*  occasionally  visited  Bath,  and  united  with  those 
men  of  renown  who  in  that  aay  dared  to  be  singular  in  the  cause 
of  Christ.  He  was  very  zealous  in  the  discharge  of  his  ministe- 
rial duties ;  but  was  incapacitated  by  ill-healtn  from  doing  as 
much  as  many  of  his  brethren.  He  frequently  preached  in  omer 
places,  and  was  always  delighted  with  the  visits  of  Mr.  White- 
field  and  Mr.  Wesley,  and  any  other  minister  who  proclaimed 
the  name  of  that  Saviour  whom  he  loved. 

When  Lady  Huntingdon  was  at  Bath,  Mr.  Andrews  preached 
yery  frequently  at  her  Ladyship's,  and  united  with  those  cross- 
bearing  labourers  who  aided  her  in  the  great  work  of  spreading 
the  everlasting  Gospel.  He  went  boldly  to  Christ  witnout  the 
camp,  bearing  his  reproach.  He  was  a  faithful  minister  of  the 
Church  of  England,  but  never  ashamed  of  the  brand  of  Metho- 
dism, or  of  those  most  liberally  abused  by  a  wicked  world,  and 
often  most  obnoxious  to  their  own  brethren.  His  work  was 
his  wages,  and  the  souls  of  men  redeemed  his  object. 

Such  conduct  provoked  the  implacable  enmity  of  the  intole- 
rant Warburton,  then  Bishop  of  Gloucester,  who,  like  his  neigh- 
bour, Lavington,  Bishop  of  Exeter,  was  the  inveterate  enemy  of 
all  Methodists  and  Moravians.  His  Lordship  informed  Mr. 
Andrews  that  he  had  received  several  complaints  of  him,  and, 

•  The  Rev.  John  AndrewsVas  originally  of  St.  Mary's  Hall,  Oxford,  where 
he  took  the  degiee  of  LL.B.  He  resided  m  America  for  some  years,  but  was 
obliged  to  return  to  England  on  account  of  the  bad  state  of  his  health.  The 
Archbishop  of  Canterbury  offered  him,  on  his  coming  over,  a  living  of  eighty 
pounds  a  year ;  but,  alarmed  at  the  laboiious  duties  of  the  parish,  he  requested 
the  Archbishop  to  give  him  the  living  of  Stinchcombe,  of  thirty-six  pounds  a- 
year,  in  the  diocese  of  Gloucester,  and  in  the  Bishop's  patronage.  The  see  of 
Gloucester  was  at  that  time  vacant,  and  his  Grace  asked  the  living  of  the  Lord 
Chancellor,  who  presented  it  to  Mr.  Andrews.  In  the  parish  of  Mr.  Andrews 
lived  a  Mrs.  Brown,  who  used  to  exhort  the  people  every  Sunday  evening  in 
the  parsonage  house,  and,  according  to  high  autnonty,  with  very  great  power. 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON,  4S1 

unless   he   had   ample  satisfaction,  threatened    to  revoke  his 
licence  by  process  in  the  spiritual  court : — 

'^  I  shall  insist  upon  your  constant  residence  in  your  parish,  not  so 
much  for  the  good  you  arc  likely  to  do  there,  as  to  prevent  the  mischief 
you  may  do  hy  ramhling  ahout  in  other  places.  Your  Bishop,  and 
(though  your  fanatic  conduct  has  almost  made  me  ashamed  to  own  it)> 
your  patron,  *'  W.  Gloucbstbr.* 

Mr.  Andrews  acquainted  the  Bishop,  by  letter,  in  answer  to 
the  first  charge,  ''  that  he  had  resided  at  least  two  years  and 
nine  months  out  of  the  three  years  that  he  had  been  in  possession 
of  the  living;"  and,  in  reply  to  the  second, "  that  tne  Bishop 
had  at  Bath,  in  consideration  of  the  smallness  of  the  income, 
and  Mr.  Andrews's  want  of  health,  recommended  it  to  him  to 
officiate  at  Stinchcombe  only  once  on  a  Sunday  ;  and  that,  not- 
withstanding, he  had  several  times  done  double  duty ;  that  many 
other  clergymen,  in  the  Bishop's  diocese,  on  much  better  livings, 
did  not  reside  at  all :  and  that  he  had  refused  a  living  of  eighty 
pounds  a  year,  and  taken  one  of  thirty-six  pounds,  merely  on 
account  of  its  requiring  less  duty."  But  as  might  have  been 
anticipated,  remonstrance  with  such  a  man  as  Warburton  was  in 
vain.  Mr.  Andrews  was  a  Methodist ;  he  had  committed  the 
unpardonable  crime  of  preaching  for  Lady  Huntingdon,  and 
without  a  divine  legation,  the  Bishop  was  resolved  to  interdict  his 
itinerancy : — 

"  If  I  indulged  you  in  giving  your  parish  only  one  service  on  a  Sun- 
day, I  hereby  revoke  that  indulgence,  and  insist  on  your  giving  them 
full  service.  '*  W.  Gloucester," 

The  Bishop  appears  somewhat  amiable  in  his  correspondence 
with  Doddridge,  and  not  a  little  faithful  in  exposing  "the  un- 
clean beasts*'  in  his  own  ark ;  but  he  could  persecute^  as  well 
as  rail.     At  length  Lady  Huntingdon  interfered : — 

'*  Poor  Andrews  Tsays  her  Ladyship)  is  sadly  used  by  his  Bishop. 
I  have  written  to  his  Lordship,  hoping  that  my  long  ana  intimate  ac- 
quaintance with  him,  may  induce  him  to  relax  a  httle  of  his  sevcriy, 
hut  I  much  fear,  knowing  his  implacable  enmity,  so  long  indulged^  and 
his  most  unreasonable  hostility  to  dear  Mr.  Whitefield  and  myself,  whom 
he  sometimes  treated  most  uncourteously.** 

The  reply  of  Warburton  was  laconic,  and  quite  in  character* 
It  ran  thus : 

*' Madam — Mr.  Andrews  is  under  my  jurisdiction,  and  I  am  re- 
solved to  keep  him,  and  his  fanatic  conduct,  within  my  own  parish. — 
"  I   remain,  Madam,  your  obedient  servant,         '*  W.  Gloucbstbb." 

♦  Although  the  living  was  given  to  Mr.  Andrews  by  the  Lord  Chancellor,  be- 
fore Warburton  was  appointed  to  the  See  of  Gloucester,  yet  he  calls  himself 


48Q  THE  LIFE  AKD  TUf  El  0^ 

The  preceding  year  the  Bishop  of  Gloucester  had  published 
**  The  Doctrine  of  Grace ;  or,  the  Office  and  Operation  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  vindicated  from  the  insults  of  infidelity  and  the 
abuses  of  Fanaticism;"  a  work  containing  many  shrewd  and 
pertinent  observations,  and  original  lucky  turns  of  thought,  with 
a  considerable  portion  of  critical  sagacity.  This  most  ^*  impu- 
dent man  of  the  age,"  through  almost  every  part  of  his  book, 
not  only  wantonly  throws  about  the  arrows  and  firebrands  of 
scurrility,  buffoonery,  and  personal  abuse,  but  at  the  same  time, 
on  account  of  some  unguarded  expressions  and  indiscretions  of 
a  particular  set  of  honest,  though  fallible,  men,  takes  occasion  to 
wound,  vilify,  and  totally  deny  the  all-powerful  operations  of 
the  Spirit  of  God,  by  which  alone  his  Lordship,  or  any  other 
man,  can  be  sanctified  and  sealed  to  the  day  of  eternal  redemp- 
tion. The  work  soon  produced  answers  from  Mr.  Whitefieid 
and  Mr.  Wesley,  one  from  Mr.  Payne,  Accountant-General  to 
the  Bank,  and  one  from  Mr.  Andrews,  entitled  "  The  Scripture 
Doctrine  of  Grace,  in  an  answer  to  a  Treatise  on  the  Doctnne  of 
Grace,  by  William,  Lord  Bishop  of  Gloucester,  so  far  as  that 
important  doctrine  is  considered." 

On  leaving  Bath,  Mr.  Venn  preached  at  Bristol  and  Glou- 
cester, and  in  the  pulpit  of  Mr.  Andrews ;  thence  he  passed  on 
to  Trevecca,  "  Happy  Trevecca  !"  as  he  styles  it,  of  wnich,  and 
of  Mr.  Howel  Hams,  he  gives  the  following  account  in  a  letter 
to  Miss  Wheeler : — 

'*  Howel  Harris  is  the  father  of  that  Bettlement,  and  the  founder. 
After  labouring  for  fifteen  years,  more  violently  than  any  of  the  ser- 
vants of  Christ,  in  this  revival,  he  was  so  hurt  in  hody  as  to  be  confined 
to  his  own  house  for  seven  years.  Upon  the  beginning  of  this  confine- 
ment, first  one  and  then  another,  whom  the  Lord  had  converted  under 
his  word,  to  the  number  of  near  a  hundred,  came  and  desired  to  live 
with  him,  and  that  they  would  work  and  get  their  bread.  I3y  this 
means,  near  one  hundred  and  twenty,  men,  women,  and  children,  from 
very  distant  parts  of  Wales,  came  and  fixed  their  tents  at  Trevecca. 
We  were  there  three  days,  and  heard  their  experience,  which  they 
spoke  in  Welsh  to  Mr.  Harris,  and  he  interpreted  to  us.  Of  all  the 
people  I  ever  saw,  this  society  seems  to  be  the  most  advanced  in  grace. 
They  speak  as  men  and  women  who  feel  themselves  every  moment 
worthy  of  eternal  punishment,  and  infinitely  base ;  and  yet,  at  the 
same  time  have  such  certainty  of  Salvation  throuffh  the  second  Man 
the  Lord  from  heaven,  as  is  indeed  delightful  to  behold.  My  heart 
received  a  blessing  frcjm  them  and  tlieir  pastor,  which  will  abide  with 
me." 

Mr.  Venn,  being  obliged  to  return  to  Huddersfield  before  the 
end  of  the  month,  could  make  but  a  short  stay  at  Trevecca;  but 


SKLINAi  COUNTESS  OF    HUMTINODOM.  48B 

there,  as  in  other  places  where  the  churches  were  not  open  to 
him,  he  hesitated  not  to  proclaim  the  riches,  the  glory,  and  the 
grace  of  his  Lord  and  Master. 

**  From  Trevecca  (says  Mr.  Venn,  in  his  long  letter  to  Lady  Hun- 
tingdon,) we  came  to  Berwick ;  where,  though  we  did  not  find  you  had 
yet  made  the  Squire  a  preacher,  yet  both  Lis  consort  and  himself  were 
much  the  better  in  their  souls  for  the  rummaging  they  went  through 
at  Brighthelmstone ; — not  from  the  custom-house  officers,  but  from  one 
who  is  very  zealous  lest  the  revenue  of  Jesus  should  sustain  damage  ; 
and  that  none  should  be  deceived  into  a  notion,  that  their  goods  have 
the  seal  royal  upon  them,  when  it  is  no  more  than  a  counterfeit  ticket. 
In  a  word,  they  arc  both,  I  trust,  in  earnest,  seeking  the  face  of  the 
Lord,  and  to  know  the  certainty  of  the  words  of  truth.  A  few  days 
after  we  got  there,  a  Mr.  Lee,  a  man  of  estate  in  Shropshire,  came  to 
pay  his  visit.  He  is,  I  do  thiuk,  of  all  the  persons  I  ever  saw  in  my 
life,  the  very  one  that  you  would  be  made  a  blessing  to.  His  under- 
standing is  clear  and  strong  :  his  sight  of  human  nature  in  its  fall 
amazingly  deep  :  his  spirit  bold  and  intrepid — only  fearful  of  being 
deceived  to  take  that  for  grace  and  fiuth  which  may  not  be  so.  He 
speaks  of  himself  as  yet  a  seeker ;  and  I  trust  tlie  Lord  will  give  him 
to  know  his  love,  and  his  peace,  and  the  power  of  his  resurrection. 
We  returned,  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Powi-g,  the  visit ;  and  in  his  parlour 
I  preached  to  ei^ktjf  people.  If  your  Ladyship  comes  into  Shropshire, 
he  will  certainly  seek  an  opporunity  of  being  in  your  company ;  or,  if 
he  goes  to  Bath,  you  will  see  him  there  in  the  spring.** 

To  Miss  Wheeler,  Mr.  Venn  says,  "  Mr.  Lee  is  a  gentleman 
of  fortune,  about  forty  years  of  age,  and  a  man  of  uncommon 

Sarts,  with  whom  I  was  much  delighted.  Mr.  Whitefield  and 
Ir.  Wesley  visited  him  whenever  they  were  in  Shropshire,  and 
his  house  was  usually  open  for  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel. 
Mr.  Wesley  being  in  that  part  of  the  country  in  March,  1 769, 
was  invited  by  Mr.  Lee  to  nis  house.  ^^  My  horse  being  lame 
(says  he),  and  part  of  the  road  very  bad,  I  did  not  reach  Mr. 
Lee's,  of  Cotery,  till  noon.  The  house  is  delightfully  situated 
in  his  park  at  the  top  of  a  fruitful  hill.  His  cuaplain  had  just 
begun  reading  prayers ;  afterwards  he  desired  me  to  give  an  ex- 
hortation." In  the  month  of  August  the  same  year,  Mr.  Wesley 
was  again  in  Shrewsbury)  on  his  way  to  attend  the  anniversary 
of  Lady  Huntingdon's  College  at  Trevecca,  and  receiving  invi- 
tations from  Messrs.  Pow}'s  and  Lee,  preached  at  Berwick  and 
Cotery. 

While  Mr.  Venn  was  at  Berwick,  Captain  Scott,  of  whose 
conversion  by  Mr.  Romaine  we  have  spoken,  had  succeeded  in 
obtaining  an  introduction  to  that  honoured  instrument  of  his 
conversion,  who  would  not  see  him  at  Brighton,  but  at  London 

kindly reoeiyed and pimyod  wiihaod for  hiau    Ota  CuptaiD  Scott 


484  TliE  LIFE  AKD  TIMES  Of 

taking  leave,  Mr.  Romaine  gave  him  a  letter  for  Mr.  Powys,  of 
Berwick,  in  Shropshire,  whither  the  Captain  was  proceeding. 
Leaving  London  in  the  Shrewsbury  mail- coach,  as  soon  as  he 
had  well  adjusted  himself.  Captain  Scott  found  by  the  common 
observations  which  curiosity  ever  makes  on  the  associates  with 
whom  we  travel,  that  one  of  his  companions  was  a  Major,  destined 
to  Shrewsbury.  Among  other  conversations  which  took  place  in 
the  interval  before  they  fell  asleep,  the  Captain  asked,  whether 
he  knew  any  families  there.  He  answered  in  the  affirmative, 
and  enumerated  among  other  families  of  his  particular  acquaint- 
ance, the  Scotts.  Captain  Scott  professed  nimself  to  have  had 
formerly  some  acquaintance  with  this  family ;  and  begged  to 
know  such  particulars  as  occurred  respecting  those  members  of 
it  he  had  lately  seen  or  heard  of.  After  the  mention  of  a  variety 
of  particulars,  in  which  the  Captain  expected  his  own  name  to 
have  occurred,  but  without  being  gratified,  he  asked  if  the  Ma- 
jor had  heard  nothing  of  any  other  branches  of  the  family.  He 
replied,  "  Yes — there  was  one  mad  fellow,  who  many  years  ago 
went  into  the  army ;  and,  when  he  was  there,  turned  Methodist, 
and  went  about  preaching  with  the  regiment." 

Captain  Scott  asked  if  he  had  shown  any  other  mark  of  de- 
rangement besides  those  he  had  mentioned,  which  appeared  to 
be  of  a  religious  kind.  The  Major  replied,  "  He  could  not  say, 
as  he  really  knew  very  little  about  him."  The  night  drew  on, 
and  the  parties  slept  and  conversed  at  intervals  till  they  arrived 
at  Oxford,  when  they  got  out  of  the  coach,>'  and  were  ushered 
into  a  room,  lighted  by  two  large  candles.  The  Captain  imme- 
diately, taking  one  of  the  candles  in  each  hand,  walked,  with  a 
firm  step,  up  to  the  Major,  and  bowing,  said,  "  Give  me  leave, 
sir,  to  introduce  to  you  the  mad  Captain  Scott."  The  Major 
appeared  overwhelmed  with  surprise  and  confusion.  He  seemed 
much  hurt  at  what  had  passed ;  but  Captain  Scott,  seeing  his 
embarrassment,  soon  relieved  him — assured  him  that  he  had  not 
felt  hurt  at  any  thing  he  had  said ;  and,  indeed,  under  the  cir- 
cumstances, could  not  be  so ;  and  only  begged  of  him  the  fiivour, 
as  he  was  then  going  to  Shropshire,  and  would  probably  see 
many  of  his  friends,  to  correct  their  mistaken  apprehensions  of 
his  being  deranged ;  for  that  he  had  travelled  with  him  from 
London,  and  discovered  (as  Captain  Scott  hoped)  no  mark  of  a 
disordered  mind. 

Captain  Scott  obser\'ed  to  him  that  it  was  no  uncommon 
thing  for  a  man  to  be  charged,  by  the  unthinking  part  of  man- 
kind with  derangement,  at  the  very  time  when  he  was  beginning 
to  be  truly  wise,  and  to  live  to  better  purpose  than  any  part  of 
his  preceding  life ;  particularly  when  ne  begins  to  reflect  that 


SELINA,  COUNTESS  OF  HUNTINGDON.  485 

he  lias  an  immortal  and  invaluable  soul,  and  makes  it  his  great 
concern  to  secure  its  eternal  happiness.  Captain  Scott  admitted 
that,  when  he  went  into  the  army,  he  had  been  a  dissipated  cha- 
racter, but  that  a  great  revolution  in  his  sentiments  and  conduct 
had  afterwards  taken  place ;  and  he  begged  the  indulgence  of 
the  Major  briefly  to  state  to  him  the  nature  of  those  \iews  of 
religion  which  he  had  imbibed,  that  he  might  be  enabled  to 
judge  whether  they  merited  the  severe  reflections  with  which 
they  had  been  chai^d.  This  gave  him  an  opportunity  of  open- 
ing to  him  the  plan  of  divine  truth  as  rcveaied  in  the  Gospel ; 
which  was,  no  doubt,  accompanied  with  Captain  Scott's  earnest 
prayer  for  his  conversion.  The  Major  bowed  assent  to  every 
thing  advanced,  and  declared  it  very  sober,  very  rational,  very 
proper,  &c.  but  whether  any  salutary  effects  were  produced,  the 
Captain  did  not  learn,  never  afterwards  having  the  opportunity 
of  another  interview  with  his  polite  and  candid  friend. 

After  a  few  days  spent  amongst  his  family  and  friends,  Captain 
Scott  rode  to  Berwick,  to  deliver  the  letter  which  Mr.  Romaine 
had  entrusted  to  him.  We  have  said  that  at  that  time  Mr. 
Powys  entertained  Mr.  Venn  as  a  visitor  in  his  house.  One 
morning,  soon  after  breakfast  and  family  prayer,  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Powys  and  Mr.  Venn  were  looking  from  the  parlour  window  in 
front  of  the  hall,  and  who  should  they  see  but  Captain  Scott, 
who  was  now  bringing  Mr.  Romaine's  letter,  enter  upon  the 
lawn,  dressed  in  his  uniform  and  riding  bis  miUtary  horse.  Mr. 
Powys  recognized  him  at  a  distance,  and  said,  ^^  There  is  Captain 
Scott ;  what  can  he  want  here  ?  I  am  determined  not  to  see 
him  if  I  can  avoid  it."     Upon  this  they  all  withdrew. 

Captain  Scott  rode  up  and  asked,  ^*  Is  Mr.  Powys  at  home  ?' 
The  servant,  uninstructed  by  his  master  to  adopt  the  fashionable 
expedient  of  stating  an  untruth  to  avoid  an  inconvenience,  in- 
formed him  that  he  was.  Mr.  Powys  was  called,  and  received  his 
visitor  with  an  air  of  distant  civility,  thinking  that  his  presence 
would  be  an  interruption  to  the  spiritual  enjoyments  ot  himself 
and  friends ;  but  after  he  had  read  Mr.  Romaine's  letter,  which 
he  received  with  considerable  agitation,  ^ving  an  account  of 
Captain  Scott's  conversion,  he  caught  him  m  his  arms,  embraced 
ana  rejoiced  over  him  as  over  one  raised  from  the  dead.  In 
this  position,  with  an  elevated  voice,  he  cried  out  "Mr.  Venn  I 
Mr.  Venn  !  Mrs.  Powys  !  Mrs.  Powys  !  come,  come  here  quickly ! 
Here  is  Captain  Scott,  a  convert  to  Christ !  a  new  creature 
in  Christ  Jesus !"  They  both  came,  and  being  informed  of 
the  contents  of  Mr.  Romaine's  letter,  all  three,  in  the  joy  of 
their  hearts,  embraced  the  Deratent,  and,  in  imitation  of  the 

VOL  I. — H  H 


486  THX  LIFE  AMD  TIMES  OV 

angels  in  heaven,  rejoiced  over  him  who  had  been  dead,  but  was 
alive  again ;  who  had  been  lost,  but  was  found. 

Of  Manchester,  where  Mr.  Venn  next  proceeded,  he  says — 

^  There  is  much  life  in  Mr.  Weelev's  society,  and  a  great  crowding 
to  hear  tlie  word.  And  well  for  toe  nadon  it  is  so :  since  in  the 
churches,  at  all  the  great  towns  we  came  to,  there  are  no  worshippers 
scarce  of  any  sort  to  he  found.  Absolute  profaneness  begins  visibly  to 
reign.  Formality  and  pharisaism  is  and  has  been  of  late  so  much 
beseiged  and  battered  down,  that  a  crisis  seems  approaching.  Real 
believers  possessing  the  Holy  Ghost  or  open  revilers  of  Christian  faith^ 
seem  to  be  the  two  standards  under  which  men  will  rank  themselves. 
As  to  my  own  flock,  I  found  them  at  my  return  well.  The  Lord  is 
with  us.  Sinners  are  converted,  souls  are  happy  in  Christ,  and  his 
pleasant  odours  diffuse  their  life-giving  fragrance  m  the  congregation." 

In  the  mean  while  the  Rev.  Howell  Davies  came  to  Bath  to 
supply  her  Ladyship's  chapel.  He  was  one  of  her  Ladyship's 
oldest  acquaintances  in  the  Principality ;  and,  with  the  Rev. 
Daniel  Rowlands,  Rev.  Peter  Williams,  Kev.  William  Williams, 
and  other  awakened  clergymen,  was  eminently  useful  in  the 
great  revival  of  religion  m  Wales.  He  was  educated  by  the 
apostolic  Jones,  rector  of  Llandowrer,  in  Carmarthenshire,  who 
wnen  he  received  priest's  orders,  gave  notice  to  the  whole  con- 
gregation of  it ;  and  desired  an  interest  in  their  prayers,  that  the 
Lord  would  bless  him,  and  give  him  success  m  the  ministry. 
The  first  church  in  which  Mr.  Davies  was  called  to  officiate  was 
Llys-y-fran,  in  Pembrokeshire ;  but  he  was  soon  turned  out  on 
account  of  his  zeal  and  faithAilness  in  the  cause  of  God  and 
truth.  He  was  a  Boanerges,  and  mere  formalists  could  not  bear 
his  faithful  application  of  the  truths  of  the  Gospel  to  the  heart 
and  life.  He  was  a  burning  and  a  shining  light  ?  and  preached 
in  four  different  places  statedly,  besides  his  daily  labours  in 
houses,  bams,  fields,  commons,  mountains,  &c.  He  had  upwards 
of  two  thousand  communicants,  and  the  church  has  been  fre- 
quently emptied  twice,  to  make  room  for  the  third  congregation 
to  partake  of  the  Lord's  supper  !  He  would  break  througn  the 
form  of  words  used  upon  these  occasions ;  and  would  speak  of 
Christ  and  his  suflFerings  in  a  variety  of  scripture  expressions.* 

It  was  about  this  period  that  the  Rev.  Dr.  Haweis,  rector  of 

*  As  be  was  walking  early  on  a  Lord*8-day  to  preach,  he  was  accosted  on  the 
road  by  a  clergyman  on  horseback,  who  was  on  the  same  errand,  but  from  a 
different  motive.  The  latter  gentleman  was  complaining  that  the  drudgery  of 
his  profession  was  unprofitable,  for  he  never  could  get  above  half-a-ginnea  for 
preaching.  The  honest  Welshman  replied,  that  be  preached  for  a  crown  :  the 
hireling  retorted  and  said,  **  You  are  a  disgrace  to  the  cloth."  ^'  Perhaps  (said 
Mr.  Davies)  1  shall  be  held  in  greater  disgrace  in  your  estimation,  when  I  in- 
form you,  that  I  am  now  going  nine  miles  to  preacn,  and  have  but  seven-pence 
in  my  pocket  to  bear  my  expenses  out  and  in,  and  do  not  expect  the  poor  pit- 


SELINA,  COUNTE68  dt  fiUimirGDON.  487 

Aldwincle?  the  Rev.  Cradock  Glascott,  afterwards  vicar  of 
Hatherlekh,  in  Devonshire  :  the  Rev.  William  Jesse,  perpetual 
curate  and  lecturer  of  West  Bromwich,  in  Staffordshire ;  and  the 
Rev.  John  Harmer,  of  Warrington,  commenced  preaching  in  the 
chapels  of  Lady  Huntingdon,  and  wherever  she  requir^  them 
to  itinerate.  In  the  earlv  part  of  his  ministry,  Mr.  Jesse  was  an 
occasional  preacher  at  Tottenham-court  Chapel,  and  was  held 
in  good  estimation  by  Mr.  Whitefield  and  Lady  Huntingdon. 
In  1771  this  exemplary  minister  was  situated  in  Lincolnshire. 
Mr.  Venn,  in  a  letter  to  Mrs.  Ryland,  says,  "Mr.  Jesse  met  me 
at  Malton,  and  accompanied  me  as  far  as  Hull :  he  is  a  very 
excellent  man,  and  seems  appointed  to  evangelize  the  Woldsj 
the  inhabitants  of  which  are  dark  almost  as  the  Indians."  How 
highly  Lady  Huntingdon  thought  of  him,  her  own  words  will 
best  tell :  "  Dear,  honest-hearted  Jesse  has  my  best  wishes.  He 
is  a  humble,  devoted  soul,  and  much  in  earnest  in  his  Master's 
woric.  Having  ever  found  him  feithful,  I  can  in  truth  recom- 
mend him  to  your  Lordship's  kind  notice  and^trona^."  This 
was  addressed  to  Lord  Dartmouth,  through  whose  mterest  he 
became  curate  and  lecturer  of  West  Bromwich*  He  also  became 
rector  of  Dowles  and  Riblesford,  in  the  county  of  Worcester* 
and  chaplain  to  the  Earl  of  Glasgow.  Mr.  Harmer  was  sent 
by  her  Ladyship  to  Brighton  and  Oathall;  he  also  preached 
occasionally  at  Bath,  but  he  was  not  a  popidar  speaker.  After 
some  time,  however,  he  thought  proper  to  withdraw  from  all 
connexion  ¥rith  her  Ladyship,  and  declined  preaching  in  her 
chapels,  without  assigning  any  cause  for  such  a  step.  This  was 
the  source  of  much  vexation  and  disappointment  to  her  Lady- 
ship ;  and  to  this  Mr.  Fletcher  alludes  in  the  following  letter, 
dated  Morley,  Dec.  9,  17(56: 

^'  I  stayed  in  London  just  to  receive  your  Ladyship's  letter,  but  not 
to  see  Mr.  Glascott  or  Mr.  Harmer.  For  some  days  the  latter  had  kept 
out  of  my  way,  nor  did  I  know  the  reason.  He  told  Jesse  his  design 
to  decline  serving  the  chapels  of  your  Ladyship,  but  hid  it  from  me^     I 

tance  remitted  that  1  am  now  in  possession  of.  But  I  look  forward  for  that 
croum  of  ghry  which  my  Lord  and  Saviour  wiU  freely  bestow  upon  me,  when  he 
makes  his  appearance  before  an  assembled  world.  ^*  In  the  same  way  Mr.  Venn, 
in  one  of  his  excursions  to  preach  for  the  Countess  of  Huntingdon,  while  riding 
on  the  road,  fell  into  company  with  a  person  who  bad  the  appearance  of  a  cler- 
gyman. After  riding  together  for  some  time,  conversing  on  different  subjects, 
the  stranger,  looking  in  his  face,  said  "  Sir,  1  think  you  are  on  the  wrong  side 
of  fifty  ?"  **  On  the  wrong  side  of  fifty !  (answered  Mr.  Venn)  no  Sir,  I  am  on 
the  right  side  of  fifty,"  "  Surely  (the  clergyman  replied)  you  must  be  turned 
of  fifty  r  *•  Yes,  Sir  (added  Mr.  Venn),  but  I  am  on  the  right  side  of  fifty,  for 
1  am  nearer  my  crown  of  glory  !**  This  unexpected  exphmation  damped  the 
conversation  on  the  part  of  the  stranger,  whUst  it  strikingly  evinced  the  happy 
state  of  Mr.  Venn*i  mind. 


488  THE  LIFE  AK1>  TIMES  OF 

had  it  from  Jesse  the  day  hefore  I  set  out.  So  for  as  I  could  gather, 
he  was  fixed  in  his  resolation,  and  whetlier  his  reasons  were  sohd  or 
only  pretended  ones,  to  his  own  Master  he  stands  or  falls,  and  hy  Him 
they  will  he  tried.  In  the  Oospel  I  had  rather  hare  nohody  than  on 
unwilling  servant  and  a  slaye.  rroyidence^  I  hope,  designs  you  a  son. 
Sarah  waited  Ions  for  Isaac.  She  saw  the  ingratitude  of  Hagar,  and 
the  pertness  of  Ishmael,  hefore  the  true  seed  was  given  her.  The  he- 
liever  does  not  make  haste.  It  is  a  hlessing  that  the  cause  is  the  Lord's, 
and  that  the  disposal  of  all  affairs  and  all  hearts  is  in  his  hands.  If  a 
sparrow  falleth  not  to  the  ground  without  his  leave,  much  less  can  a 
minister  fall  from  an  agreement  without  it.  He  will  never  suffer  a 
disappointment  to  hefal  us,  hut  to  prevent  a  greater  one,  or  to  hring  in 
a  superior  hlessing.  This  we  shall  see  in  the  end.  In  the  mean  time, 
I  repeat  it,  we  walk  hy  faith." 

Mr.  Harmer  joined  Mr.  Wesley,  and  in  the  year  1780  was 
situated  at  Warrington ;  of  his  subsequent  history  little  is  known. 
The  Rev,  W.  Buddngham,  who  held  a  curacy  in  CJomwall, 
preached  for  Lady  Huntingdon  on  Mr.  Harmer's  secession.  Soon 
after  he  too  joined  Mr.  Wesley,  but  in  two  years  withdrew  from 
the  Methodists.  *^  He  had  no  sooner  done  this  (says  Mr.  Wes- 
ley), than  the  Bishop  rewarded  him  by  turning  him  out  of  his 
curacy ;  which,  had  he  continued  to  walk  in  Christian  simplicity, 
he  would  probably  have  had  to  this  day."  In  1781  he  was 
residing  in  London,  assisting  Mr.  Wesley  as  a  curate,  with  Mr. 
Richardson ;  but  at  what  period  he  terminated  his  course  we 
have  not  been  able  to  learn. 


END  OF  THE  FIRST  VOLUME. 


WILLUM  EDWARD  PAINTER,  STRAND,  LONDON,  PRINTER. 


INDEX  TO  VOL.  I. 


PAGE. 

•  ••  Dt> 

...     201 

319 

...     136 

413 

...     480 

179 

...     271 

317,381,484 


Abney,  Lady    ... 

Sir  Thomas  and  Lady 

Abraham,  Old,  at  Oathall 

Akenside,  Dr. 

Aldwincle  living  and  Mr.  Kimpton 

Andrews,  Mr.,  and  Bishop  of  Gloucester 

Anecdote  of  Lord  Bolingbroke  and  Dr.  Church 
of  Newton's  preaching  at  Leeds 
of  Captain  Scott 
of  Conversion  of  an  old  Inn  Keeper  at  Aldwinde  Church    420 
of  Dr.  Doddridge  on  leaving  Bath  for  Falmouth  ...     450 

of  George  I.  and  Lady  Chesterfield 
of  Mr.  Venn 

Articles  of  Peace 

Ashby-place,  Lady  Huntingdon  at 

Ayscough,  Dr.,  Dean  of  Bristol,  and  Doddridge 

Badoelley,  Mr.,  Letter  of  Whitefield  to 

Baptists,  General 

Bath,  Earl  of,  impressed  under  Whitefield's  preaching 
the  Countess's  Chapel  at     ... 

Batty,  the  Messrs.,  account  of 

Belcher,  Governor,  of  New  Jersey  College  ... 

Bell  and  Maxfield,  Fletcher's  regard  for 

Bennett,  Mr.,  visits  the  Countess  at  Donnington  Park 

Berridge  and  the  Countess     ... 
Letters  to  the  Countess 
Extracts  of  Letters  from        ...  ...  ...  ...    358 

and  the  Bees     ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  366 

Character  of,  wit  and  labours  ...  ...  ...     367 

and  the  Bishop  ...  ...  ...  ...  369 

Letter  to, from  Mr.  Thornton  ...  ...  ...     371 

from,  to  Mr.  Thornton       ...  ...  ...  373 

Illness  of  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...     381 

Singular  effects  of  the  preaching  of  ...  ...  397 

Bishops,  Conduct  of  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...       38 

of  London,  Oxford,  and  Gloucester  ...  ...  196 

Death  of  ...  ...  ...  ...     231 

Seat  of,  in  Bath  Chapel  ...  ...  ...  477 

Blair,  Dr.     ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...       58 

Bliss,  Mr.,  impressed  under  Pf.  Haweis      ...  ...  ••  391 

VOL.  I. — I  I 


463 
479,  486 
437 
..  119/ 

175 

..  120 

44 

..  465 

443,  467  4 

..  247 

140 

..  321 

45 

..  216 

323,  336,  359,  386,  388 


11 


PAGE. 
32 


Bowers,  first  lay  preacher  among  the  Methodists 
Bolingbroke,  Lord,  hears  Whltefield 

Death  of 
Bretby  Hall»  the  Countess  at 
Brethren,  the  United 
Brighton,  Chapel  re-opened 
Broughton,  Re?.,  Bryan  and  Whitefield 
Browne,  Rev.  Moses,  Chaplain  to  the  Duke  of  Somerset 
Buchan,  Lady  ...  ...  ...  r  . 

Buckingham,  Duchess  of 

Burder,  Rev.  George,  and  Romaine 

Burnet,  Bishop 

Burnett,  Rev.  G.,  impressed  under  Mr.  Walker  of  Truro 

Burr,  President,  of  New  Jersey  College 

CAMBunxsE,  Progress  of  piety  at 

CampbeU,  the  Hon.  Hume 

Carteret,  Lord,  Letter  to  the  Countess 

Cavendish,  Mrs.,  visits  the  Countess  at  Bath 

Cennick,  Mr, 

Chancellor,  Lord  High,  found  guilty  of  corruption     . . . 

Chapel  of  the  Countess,  at  York 

at  Brighton 

at  Lewes 

at  Chichester,    Petworth,    Guildford  and 

Basingstoke  ...  ...  ...     393 

at  Gloucester,  Worcester,  and  Oheltenham    440 
Charges  against  the  Countess        ...  ...  ...  ...  424 

Cheltenham,  Whitefield,  Madan,  and  Venn  preached  there  ...     429 

Chesterfield,  Lord  ...  ...  ...  ...        90,99,115,458 

Lady,  impressed  under  Whitefield  ...  ...    462 

Church,  Dr.     ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  179 

Clanricardcs,  Pedigree  of      ...  ...  ...  ...  ...        3 

Clergy,  awakened  under  the  preaching  of  Whitefield  and  Wesley  61 

Coachman  of  George  III.,  Anecdote  of  ...  ...  ...     131 

Cobb,  Lady  Betty,  influence  over  the  Bishops  ...  ...  477 

Colne,  Vicar  of,  and  Messrs.  Grimshaw  and  Ingham         ...  ...     259 

Conference,  First  Methodist  ...  ...  ...  ...  62 

at  Leeds  ..  ...  ...  ...  ...     267 

Convict,  the  Countesses  exertions  in  behalf  of  a        ...  ...  227 

Conyers,  Dr.,  commencement  of  Evangelical  Ministry  of     277 

Visitation  Sermon  displeases  the  Archbishop  of  York      280 


/ 


90 

178 

466 

...     246 

378^' 

...     196 

..     127,  164 

...     427 

27 

...     273 

39 

...     276 

140 

...     421 

205 

...       67 

461 

82,  198,  262 

6 

...     310  J 

..     314, 390 

...     364 


Letter  from,  to  the  Countess 

Cooper,  Miss;  Death  of     

Cotton,  Dr.,  and  the  Countess 
Cruttenden,  Robert,  Esq.,  Account  of 
Darracott,  Rev.  R.,  Letter  to,  from  the  Countess 
Dartmouth,  Lord 


...  281 

5;2 

...  157 

448 

...  114 

276,  326,  429 


Ill 

PAGE. 

Davies,  Howell        ...            ...            ...            ...            ...  ...    486 

Deane,  Mrs.,  Character  of             ...            ...            ...  ...            296 

De  Courcy,  Mr.       ...            ...            ...            ...            ...  381,411 

Delamotte  and  Charles  Wesley      ...            ...            ...  ...            243 

Delitz,  the  Countess              ...            ...            ...            ...  ...     462 

Deny,  Bishop  of            ...            ...            ...            ...  ...             33 

UoQQ,  Ur.  ...            ...             ...             ...             ...             ...  ...     40 ] 

Doddridge,  Dr.,  Letter  to,  from  the  Countess           ...  ...              64 

Letter  of,  to  Mr.  Fawcett         ...            ...  ...     154 

111  health  of,  visits  the  Countess  at  Bath  ...     448,  449 

embarks  at  Falmouth  and  lands  at  Lisbon  ...     4.5 L 

his  views  when  near  death                ...  ...            452 

his  peaceful  dissolution             ...            ...  ...     4.52 

Downes,  Mr.,  Death  of,  in  the  pulpit           ...            ...  ...              63 

Dream  of  a  lady  respecting  Lady  Huntingdon                    ...  ...     313 

EabthquaK£  in  London     ...            ...  ...            128 

Edwin,  Mrs.             ...            ...            ...            ...            ...  ...       86 

Edwin,  Lady  Charlotte                  ...            ...            ...  ...            175 

Erasmus,  Bishop  of  Arcadia                 ...            ...            ...  ...     331 

Erskine,  Dr.,  and  Dr.  Robertson ..              ...            ...  ...            184 

Evangelical  Magazine  commenced        ...            ...            ...  ...    214 

Exeter,  Bishop  of         ...            ...            ...            ...  ...        95,  125 

Extraordinary  occurrence        ...            ...            ...            ...  ...    205 

Fast,  the  public             ...            ...           ...           ...  ...           395 

I* errers,  tiie              ...            ...            •*•            •••            •••  ...        4 

Ferrers,   Lord,  tried— visited  by  the  Countess—iingular  conduct — 

execution             ...             ...            ...            ...  ...    402, 409 

Fletcher,  Mr.,  introduced  to  the  Countess  by  John  Wesley  ...     231 

Letter  of,  to  \Miitefield       ..             ...  ...            289 

to  his  Flock  at  Madeley             ...  ...     469 

Letters  of,  to  Charles  Wesley            ...  ...     232,  235 

to  the  Countess  ...     234,  241, 295,  357,  487 

preaches  &  celebrates  the  Communion  at  the  Countess's  232 


appointed  vicar  of  Madeley 

•  ■  • 

234 

visits  Berridge 

236 

Success  of,  in  the  Ministry 

•  •  • 

237 

and  Mr.  Venn  preach  at  Everton,  loud  cries  in 

the 

Congregation 

•  •  • 

400 

Labours  of,  at  Bath 

468 

Foote,  the  player 

208 

F orQ,  i^r.      .«a         ...             ...             ...             ...             ... 

•  •  > 

216 

Fox,  Mr.  Charles 

210 

Fninkland,  Lady  Anne 

•  •  • 

20 

Galatin,  Colonel  and  Mrs.          ...            ... 

156 

Gardiner,  Colonel 

•  •  • 

59 

Marvellous  Conversion  of, 

60 

A^vHUl  01    •»•                 •••                 •••                 ••• 

•  »• 

68 

Gudiner,  1^7  Fiance*  ... 

Ganick  and  Dr.  Stonelunue 

George  IL 

Gertiude,  Ladr 

Giardini, 

GiUNm,  Hn.  Herter 

OiblN»«,Di. 

cm.  Dr.  


Gtemndir,  Ladjr     ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...    a 

Lord  and  Ladf  ...  ,,.  ...  ...  t 

Lad;,  Letter  from,  to  the  Counteu  ...  ...    t 

GloucMUr,  Bubop  of    ... 

Clouccslerahire  Association  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...    i 

Godwyn.  Rev.  Chartet  ...  ...  ...  ..  i 

Govemraent,  Liberal  conduct  of,  to  tke  Webh  HelliodiaU 

Grafton,  Dukeof 

Gnvea,  Hr„  lis  Recantation  and  Letter*  ...  ...  ...4S 

—  encounget  Jobn  Nebon 
GrcnfieU,  Hta.        ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...    1 

Otimibaw,  Hr. 

Opiaioni  of  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...    ; 

Accountof  ...  ...  ...  267,371,! 

Letter  of 

and  hii  friend  Robeitihaw ... 

Death  of       ...  ...  ...  ...        1   ... 

Gumle;,  Colonel 

Cvrjnae,  Manuiduke,  Esq.   ...  ...  ...  ...  ... 

Halifax,  Lord 

HammoDd,  tbe  Poet  ...  .., 

Handel  j 

Harrii,  Howel 

Hartley.  Mr. 1 

Dr.  , 

Haatitigs,  Lady  Margaret 

Geoigeand  Perdinando  (aonsof  the  Couiiteta),  Death  of 
Lady  Frances 

Beltr ...            : 

Hon.  Henry,  Death  of          ...  ...            ...            .,.    j 

Lady  SeLna,  nineu  and  death  of  ...             ...            ; 

Colonel  George     ...           ...  ...           ,_.                  . 

Haweu,  Dr.      ...            ...            ...            ...  ...               _            . 

preaching  at  the  Lock      ...  ...            ...            .,,    ; 

and  the  living  of  Aldwincle     ... 

itinerates  for  the  Countess  ...             ...            ...    , 

Hertford,  Countess  of,  Letter  of  .., 


PAGE. 
123 

•  •  •        •  •  ■    JL  %}^ 

187 

...  188,  189 

...  211 

213 

great  success  at  Tabernacle  and  Tottenham- 
court  Chapels      ...  ...  ...  212 

Ordination  by  the  Bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells 


Hervey,  Mr.,  Letter  of,  to  the  Countess 
at  Ashby  with  the  Countess 
commences  "  Theron  and  Aspasio^ 
method  of  preaching 
Letters  to  the  Countess 

Hill,  Mr.  Rowland,  great  popularity 

style  of  preaching 


and  first  Sermon 

•  •  • 

•  •  • 

...     212 

Hill,  Sir  Richard            

423 

Hinchingbroke,  Lady 

•  •• 

•  •  • 

...       SO 

Home,  Dr. ,  Bishop  of  Norwich    ... 

423 

Hotham,  Lady  Gertrude 

•  •* 

•  •  • 

160,454 

Sir  Charles 

375 

•  • 

•  •• 

456,  457 

Miss,  Happy  death  of     ... 

456 

Lady,  Deathof 

•  •» 

•  • 

...     456 

Lady  Gertrude,  Happy  death  of  ... 

457 

Huntingdon  Family 

•  •  • 

•  •  • 

7 

Earl  of,  his  fiunily    ... 

8 

17    50 

■     .        visits  Ledstone  Hall   ... 

254 

...       74 
75 

Youne  Lord,  comes  of  affe,  tour  to  France,  &c. 

...     115 

,1  his  high  appointments  under  George  II L       458 

__  his  Infidelity,  interview  with  Grimshaw, 
and  death  ...  ...  ...  ...  459 

Lady— her  birth— early  character— first  religious  impres- 
sions—grave of  youth — piety— private  prayer- 


fashionable  life — marriage  .. 
Letter  from,  to  Charles  Wesley 
-^^— -  to  John  Wesley 

—  of,  respecting  a  penitent 

_  respecting  Mr.  Harvey 

to  Dr.  Doddridge  ... 

— — —  to  Mr.  Wesley 

to  Dr.  Doddridge   ... 

to  Mr.  Venn  ... 

■  to  Romaine 

to  Mr.  Milner.i. 

to  Mr  Wren 

—  to  Gabriel  Harris 
to  Mr.  Brewer 

■   to  Mr.  Wesley 


...   7-10 

...      41 

46 

...      oo 

192 

64 

71 

78-83, 102, 150 

...  225 

...     305 

307 

...     309 

443 

...     438 

475 


Tl 

PAGE. 

Huntingdon,  Lady,  and  the  Moravians         ...  ...  ...  aOl 

niness  of,  and  recovery  ...  ...  122 

Letters  of,  to  Lord  Dartmouth  and  Mr.  Madan  417, 418 
her  first  acquaintance  with  Mr.  Fletcher— Letter 
of,  concerning  Mr.  Fletcher— her  request  to  him 
to  preach  to  the  French  prisoners  at  Tunbiidge    231 
liberates  John  Nelson  from  prison,  by  her  influence    258 
visits  Yorkshire,  with  Wbitefield         ...  ...    265 

visits  Aberford,  with  Romaine      ...  ...  273 

visits  Yorkshire  and  Lancashire,  with  Romaine, 
Mr.  Ingham,  and  Lady  Aiargaret       ...  ...    273 

visits  Yorkshire  again,  has  frequent  meetings  with 
the  pious  Clergy  there       ...  ...  ...    281 

attends  the  19th  Conference  at  Lteds,  with  Messrs. 
Romaine,  Madan,  Venn,  Whitefield,  John  and 
Charles  Wesley  ...  ...  ...  281 

visits  Aberford   again — takes    an  excursion    to 
Haworth,  Fletcher  and  Towntend  preach  in  the 
church-yard — visits  Huddersfield      ...  ...    290 

Illness  of  ...  ...  ...  ...  290 

and  Mr.  Venn,  respecting  Mr.  Ingham's  state  of 
mind  ...  ...  ...  ...  301 

sends  students  to  Yorkshire  ...  ...  ...     303 

Chapel  of,  at  York         ...  ...  ...  310 

'       at  Lewes,  opened,  enlai^ed,  and  reopened  364 
at  Gloucester,  Worcester,  and  Chel- 
tenham        ...  ...  ...  ...     441, 442 

■  ■        at  Bath  ...  ...  ...     443 


exertions  at  Brighton      ...            ...            ...  312 

sells  her  Jewels  to  build  a  Chapel  at  Brighton    ...  314 
Gratitude  of,  respecting  Mr.  Romaine's  success  at 

St  Anne's,  Blackfriars              ...            ...  363 

-  at  Chichester,  Guildford,  and  Basingstoke  393 

Extracts  from  letters  respecting  the  Fast           . . .  395 

visits  Mr.  Berridge,  with  Mr.  Madan           . . .  399 
visits  Earl  Ferrers  in  prison— her  exertions  to  save 

his  life          ...            ...            ...            ...  405 

purchases  the  Advowson  of  Aldwincle,  and  writes 

to  Mr.  Thornton          ...            ...            ...  416 

Charges  against,  respecting  the  six  expelled  Oxford 

Students               ...             ...             ...             ...  424 

Letter  of,  respecting  them     ...            ...            ...  442 

Illness  of,  greatly  blest   ...            ...            ...  14 

Schools  of                ...            ...            ...            ...  51 

Anecdote  of  one  of  her  workmen  ...            ...  54 

Death  of  the  Sons  of             ...            ...            ...  62 

her  attachment  to  the  Church  of  England  ...  88 


Vll 

PAGE. 

Huntingdon,  Lady,  Nobility  meeting  at  her  house  ...  1 08, 228 

the  Wesleys,  and  Whitefield         ...  ...  474 

the  Nobility  attend  her  Chapel  at  Bath  ...    477 

Hurd,  Dr.,  Bishop  of  Worcester,  Anecdote  of  ...  ...  18 

Hyatt,  Mr.  John,  his  settlement  at  Tabernacle,  and  Tottenham  Chapel    214 

154 

28,  842 

248 

..     263 

269 

..     301 

802 

..    269 

270 

..     114 

297 

..       33 

868 

..     114 

97 

..     181 

402 

54 

325 

..     894 

212 

218,  468 

81 

...     453 

214 

...     283 

446 

148,  223 

483 

...     114 

6 


Incident,  Singular,  concerning  Dr.  Doddridge 
Ingham,  Mr. 

Marriage  of,  to  Lady  Margaret  Hastings 

leaves  the  Moravians        ...  ... 

chosen  General  Overseer 

Melancholy  state  of 

Lady  Margaret,  Illness  and  death  of 
Inghamite  Churches  and  Discipline     ... 

rTeacners       ...  •••  ...  ...  ..c 

Impostor,  an 

Irvine,  Lady 

Itinerants 

Jesse,  Mr.,  Letter  of 

vC  vv  mp   \,mX"  •••  •■•  •.•  ■••  «•• 

John,  Lord  St,  attendant  at  the  Countess's,  Death  of 
Johnson,  Dr.,  on  Bolingbroke's  Works 
Johnson,  Mr.,  the  Murder  of,  by  Lord  Ferrers 
Jones,  Mr.,  the  death  of 

of  Sl  Saviour's,  the  death  of   ... 

Thomas  ...  ...  ... 

Joss,  Captain,  unites  in  the  Ministry  with  Whitefield 

f\£ENE,  Iiir.  ...  ...  ...  ...  «.« 

Kilmorey,  Lady 
King,  Elizabeth 
Knight,  Mr.  Joel  Abraham 

Larwood,  Mr. 

jLjUkXwp   PfXT^   •••  ••*  •••  •••  •••  ••• 

X^fiTtf «  Pfm,k»  •09  »••  •••  •  *  9  •••  ••< 

mjC Vi^  aJWmOL  •••  ••■  ••■  •••  ••• 

A^^  V  llilCCS*  wUw     •••  •••  ■••  •*•  •••  ••( 

Lewes,  the  Countess  procures  an  opening  for  Messrs.    Romaine, 

Madan,  and  Fletcher  at          ...            ...            ...  ...            363 

Lewes,  Chapel  of  the  Countess  at,  opened  and  re-opened  ...     364 

Lindsay,  Theophilus       ...             ...             ...            ...  ...            469 

Lisbume,  Lord        ...            ...            ...            ...            ,,.  ...       30 

Long-Acre  Chapel          ...             ...             ...             ...  ...            203 

Lothian,  Marquis  of                ...            .,,            ...             ...  ...     100 

Luxborough,  Lady          ...            ...            ...            ...  ...            181 

Lyttleton,  Lord       ...             ...                            ...             ...  ...     150 

iTir.                  ...              ...             ...             ...  ...              » i  I 

Madan,  Mr.  Martin,  his  family,  conrersioii,  ordination,  8tc.  165, 166,  328 


till 

Madan/ Mr.  Martin,  opens  the  Chapel  at  Brighton  ...  ...           314 

and  Dr.  Haweifi,  Musical  taste  of    ...  ...    364 

Letter  of  the  Countess  to  ...            ...            418 

Reply  of             ...            ...  ...            ...    420 

Letter  of,  to  John  Wesley  ...           ...           433 

Magistrates  and  John  Nebon               ...           ...  ...            ...    255 

Mallet,  Mr.  David,  and  Bolingbroke*s  Works  ...            .  •            181 

Marlborough,  Sarah,  Duchess  of         ...            ...  ...            ...      25 

Mason,  Mr.  William,  Letter  of,  to  Dr.  Free  ...           364 

Maxfield,  Mr.          ...            ...            ...            ...  ...            ...      32 

and  Bell    ...            ...            %$%  ...            ...            321 

Maxwell,  Lady         ...            ...            ...            ...  ...            ...    411 

Methodists,  the               ...            ...            ...  ...            ...        12, 31 

the  first  Society  of            ...            ...  ...            ...      19 

Webh,  Persecution  of             ...  ...            ...            110 

oocieues             ...            ...            ...  ...            ...     liid 

Conference...            ...            ...  ...            ...            446 

Methodism,  Rise  of,  in  Yorkshire        ...            ...  ...            ...    242 

in  Scotland                ...            ...  ...            ...            410 

Milner,  Mr.              ...            ...            ...            ...  ...            ...    267 

Mr.  Joseph,  attends  the  Countess's  Preachers,  and  begins  to 

preach  the  Gospel             ...            ...  ...            ...    303 

Ministers,  the  German    ...            ...            ...  ...            ...            115 

Minor,  The,  publication  of    ...            ...            ...  ...            ...     209 

Mitchell,  Mrs.                 ...            ...            ...  ...            ...             40 

Mohegan  Indians     ...            ...            ...            ...  ...            ...     411/ 

Moira,  Countess  of         ...             ...             ...  ...             ...            460 

Montague,  Lady  Mary  Wortley            ...            ...  ...            ...      22 

Moravians,  the                ...            ...            ...  ...            ...      36, 453 

and  Charles  Wesley      ...            ...  ...            ...      41 

Settlement  of,  at  Fulneck    ...  ...            ...            250 

Nobles            ...            ...            ...  ...            ...    262 

More,  Mrs.  Hannah        ...            ...            ...  ...            ...            293 

Moorfields,  Preaching  of  Whitefield  and  Wesley  in  ...              36,199 

Murray,  Grace,  marriage  to  Mr.  Bennett     ...  ...            ...              45 

iNash,  Deau             .•«            .••            >••            •••  ...            ••.    440 

Nelson,  John     ...            ...            ...            ...  .-.            ...     46, 251 

Spirit  of,  encouraged  by  the  Countess  ...            255,256 

imprisoned              ...            ...  ...            ...            257 

liberated  through  the  influence  of  the  Coimtess         ...     258 

Newton,  Rev.  John,  Anecdote  related  by,  respecting  Whitefield  92 

visits  Yorkshire          ...  ...            ...            270 

Letter  of,  to  John  Wesley  ...  ...            ...     270 

Nimmo,  Mr.  and  Lady  Jane           ...            ...  ...            ...            185 

Lady  Jane,  Letter  of,  to  the  Countess  ...            ...     186 

Nobility,  Scotch              ...            ...            ...  ...            ...            185 

Nobility  attend  preaching  at  the  Countess's       ...  ...     108, 228, 477 


IX 

PA6£. 

Northampton,  Lord        ...  ...  ...  ...  '  ...  132 

\/AxnAl.t.  ...  ...  ...  ...  «••  •*•       OlD 

Occum,  the  Indian  Preacher         ...  ...  ...  ...    298,411 

Okeley,  Mr.  Francis  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...    244 

Oliver,  Dr.        ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...    450,451 

Oratorio,  at  the  Lock  Chapel  ...  ...  ...  ...    364^ 

Oxford,  Lord       ...  ...  ...  ...  29 

Oxford,  Students  of  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...    421 

Progress  of  piety  among  ...  ...  226 

St.  Edmund's  Hall,  the  expulsion  of  ...    422 

Penitent's  Death  Bed  ...  ...  ...  ...  55 

Pentycross,  Mr.       ...  ...  ...  ...  ..  ...    393 

Perfection,  Christian  and  sinless...  ...  ...  ...321,329 

Perronet,  Vincent  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...     387 

Piety,  Progress  of,  at  Cambridge  ...  ...  ...  421 

■  A*vj^  a.tX&«    •••  •••  att  •••  •••  •••  •••     ^  M>\3 

Pope,  the  poet  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...      26, 444 

Potter,  Dr.,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury  ...  ...  ...    446 

Pow}'s,  Mr.  and  Mrs.       •.  ...  ...  ...  ..•  375 

Preaching,  Lay        ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...      32 

Preachers,  I^y  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...      60,  198 

Mr.  Wesley^s  Defence  of  ...  ...  ...      61 

\f elSQ    ...  ...  ...  ...  ...       84, 1 98 

Pretender,  the         ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...      65 

QuEENSBURY,  Duchess  of  ...  ...  ...  ...  28 

Reugion,  Revival  of,  in  the  Establishment  and  among  the  Methodists  220  w^ 
Riddell,  Mr.,  Letter  of,  to  the  Countess  ...  ...  ...     303 

Robinson,  Miss  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  29 

Rc^rs,  Mr.  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...     244 

Romaine,  Mr.,  Family  of  ..  ...  ...  ...  130 

Letters  of,  to  the  Countess         ...     323, 324.  327, 330, 362 

■  to  Mrs.  Medhurst  ...  ...     302,  333 

Great  popularity  of       ...  ...  ...  ...     130 

appointed  Chaplain  to  the  Countess  ...  ...  132 

Opinion  of,  respecting  the  Inghamite  Churches       ...     273 

preaches  in  Mr.  Ingham's  Chapels      ...  ...  273 

at  Haworth,  preaches  in  the  open  air        ...  ...    274 

Wesley,  Madan,  Wbiteficld,  &c.  in  Yorkshire  ...  281 

Connexion  of,  with  the  Countess  ...  ...    315 

driven  from  the  chapel  of  the  Broadway  ...  326 

and  the  Lectureship  at  St.  Dunstan's        ...  ...    360 

Lord  Mansfield's  decision  in  favour  of  •..  360 

Influence  of  the  Bishop  of  Peterborough  for  ...     361 

Election  for  St.  Ann's  Blackfriars  living  on  behalf  of     361 
Probation  Sermon;  contest,  canvassing  and  scrutiny     361 

Second  Election  on  behalf  of  ...  ...  362 

view  of  his  preferment  in  a  letter  to  the  Countess  ...    363 
VOL.  I. — K  K 


X 

PAGE. 

Romaine,  Mr.,  Suit  in  Chancery  against, but  decided  in  his  favour        362 

preaches  at  Bristol  and  Cheltenham  ...            ...     388 

and  Madan  visit  Everton      ...  ...            ...            398 

Rowley,  Mr.            ...             ...             ...  ...             ...             ...     310 

Bandsman's  letters         ...           ...            ...  ...            ...           274 

Scarborough,  Lord                 ...            ...  ...            ...            ...      20 

Scawen,  Mrs.  ...             ...            ...            ...  ...            ...            448 

Scott,  Captain         ...            ...            ...  ...              „            299,317 

and  Mr.  Venn        ...            ...  ...            ...            485 

Seeker,  Archbishop                ...            .m,  ...            ...            ...       19 

Shent,  Mr.  William         ...            ...            ...  ...            ...            291 

Shirley,  Family  of,  &c.          ...            ...  ...            ...            ...        1 

Lady  Fanny        ...             ...             ...  ...     22,115,191,444 

XvJLl  •                     •••                      •••                      •••  •••                       •••                      •  •  9        %j  OO 

Shrapnell          ...            ...            ...            ...  ..            ...            467 

Shunamite,  the  London         ...            ...  ...            ...            ...     299 

Shuter,  Mr.  Edward,  the  comedian,  Anecdote  of       ...  ...            207 

Simpson,  Mr.,  Mr.  Wesley's  opinion  of  ...            ...             ...       47 

Society  at  Fetter-lane,  Separation  of           ...  ...              35 

Soldiers,  Christian  ...            ...            ...  ...            ...            ...       93 

Somerset,  the  Duchess  of            ...            ...  ...            ...              82 

the  Duke  of          ...            ...  ...            ...            ...     127 

Somerville,  the  Poet      ...            ...            ...  ...            ...             22 

Southey,  Dr.            ...            ...            ...  ...            ...            ...       18 

Reflections  of,  on  Bcrridge,  and  their  refutation  ...  367 

Steward,  Mr.            ...            ...            ...  ...            ...            ...     198 

Stillingfleet,  Mr.              ...            ...            ...  ...            ...            478 

Stonehouse,  Lady   ...            ..             ...  ...            ...            ...     155 

mJX»                          ...                       ...                       ...  ...                       ...                        l/\l 

Suffolk,  Lady          ...            •..            ...  ...            ...            ...       98 

Sunderland,  Lord           ...            ...            ...  ...            ...            258 

Sutherland,  Lord  and  Lady,  Death  of  ...            ...             ..472 

Tabernacle  and  Tottenhani-court  Chapels,  History  of,  commence- 
ment, opening,  &c.              ...            ...  ...            ...     19G-20(i 

Talbot,  Rev.  W.       ...            ...            ...  ...            ...            ...     381 

Taylor,  David  ...            ...            ...            ...  ...            ...              43 

Temples,  the               ..            ...            ...  ...            ...            ...    21 

Thompson,  Mr.                ...            ...            ...  ...             ...             126 

Thome,  Rev.  lliomas             ...             ...  ...             ...             ...     393 

Thornton,  Mr.                 ...            ...             ..  ...            ...            280 

..  Letter  of,  to  Berridgc    ...  ...            ...            ...     371 

Thorold,  Sir  John           ...            ...            ...  ...            ...              77 

Thorpe,  Mr.,  mimics  Whitefield,  and  is  converted  ...            ...     149 

Toplady,  Mr.                   ...             ...             ...  ...             ...     331,390 

Tottenham-court  Chapel  opened          ...  ...            ...            ...    20G 

Townscnd,  Lady             ...            ...            ...  ...            ...              22 

Townsend,  Mr.,  sent  to  Edinburgh      ...  ...           ...           ...    411 


XI 

PAGE. 

Townsend,  Mr.  and  Mr.  Jesse      ...           ...           ...  ...           466 

.—    Whitefield,  &c.            ...            ...  ...            ...    467 

X F&pPy  iJT*            ..•                    ••.                    ...                    ...                   ...  •••                    I  I  *f 

Trinderf  Mr*            .«•            ...            ...            ...  ...            ...    431 

X IflCif  •^Xa .             ...                   ...                   ...                   ...                   .•.  ...                   O vO 

—  Labours  of,  at  Hull             ...            ...  ...            ...     306 

Union  among  tbe  Evangelical  Clergy  proposed         ...  ...            409 

Venn,  Mr., begins  to  attract  notice      ...            ...  ...            ...    219 

Acquaintance  of,  with  Mr.  Brougbtoi),  one  of  tbe  original 

Methodists           ...            ...            ...  ...            223 

Illness  of ;  accompanies  Mr.  Whitefield  to  Bristol ;  re- 
mains with  the  Ck>untess  at  Clifton  ...            ...    224 

removes  to  Huddersficld            ...            ...  ...            276 

Letters  of,  to  the  Countess              ...    282,  287,  336,  359,  430 

publishes  "  Tbe  Complete  Duty  of  Man^  ...            ...    359 

Letter  of      ...            ...            ...            ...  ...            486 

Irregularities  of    ...            ...            ...  ...            ...    29L 

Defence  of   ...            ...            ...            ...  ...            294 

\Miitefield  and  Fletcher     ...            ...  ...            ...    375 

and  Fletcher  preach  at  Everton                ...  ...            398 

at  Trevecca          ...            ...            ...  ...             ..    482 

Wales,  Death  of  the  Prince  of     ...            ...            ...  ...            173 

Wall,  Joseph            ...            ••            ...            ...  ...            ...     313 

Walpole,  Horace             ...            ...            ...            ...  465  i 

Kw  DHvQ            ••«                     •••                     •••  •••                     •••        4/f 

Warburton,  Dr.,  Bbbop  of  Gloucester        ...            ...  ...            444 

Wardrobe,  Mr,        ...            ...            ...            ...  ...            ...     187 

w SvCs,  JL/r.         ...             ...             ...              ...             ...  ...               do 

Letter  of,  to  Dr.  I>oddridge               ...  ...            ...       82 

Anecdote  of                ...             ...             ...  ...             200 

Wells,  Mr.  Samuel  ...            ...            ...            ...  ...            ...     431 

Wesley,  Charles  and  Mr.  Ingham               ...            ...  ...             28 

—  and  the  Moravians      ...            ...  ...            ...      41 

John,  Opinion  of,  respecting  Mr.  Maxfield*8  call  to  the  Ministry   34 

■              of,  respecting  Mr.  Simpson  ...            ...      47 

preaching  on  his  father's  tombstone     ...  ...              57 

defence  of  Lay-preaching              ...  ...            ...      60 

and  Wliiteiield         ...            ...            ...  ...            118 

and  Whitefield,  Breach  between    ...  ...            ...     197 

on  sinless  perfection               ...             ...  ...            329 

preaching  at  Everton                     ...  ...             ...     398 

Letters  of,  to  Lady  Huntingdon            ...  ...     398,427 

tu  I^y  Maxwell            ...  ...             ...     411 

Interesting  anecdote  of,  at  Bath,  interrupted  in  preach- 

ing  by  Beau  Nash           ...             ...  ...            445 

Wesley,  John,  Whitefield,  and  Lady  Huntingdon  ...            ...    474 

Whitefield,  the  preaching  of         ...           ...           ...  •••             17 


xu 

Whitefield,  arrives  in  England 
Letters  of    ... 
— -^—  to  Mr.  Baddeley 

to  the  Countess 

Letter  of,  to  Lady  Townshend 
— —  to  Lady  Fanny  Shirley 
— —  to  Dr.  Haweis 

to  Robert  Keene,  Esq. 

— — — »»  to  Mr.  Madan 


preaching  of.  Anecdote 

nobility  hear  him 

and  Wesley  ... 

Success  of,  at  Rotherham  ... 

at  Ashby 

visits  Scotland     ... 

m  London    ... 

and  Wesley,  Breach  between 

preaches  in  Moorfields  on  St.  Bartholomew's  day 

the  Will  of 

returns  to  England,  and  writes  to  Mr.  Ingham 

visits   Yorkshire,  preaches  at   Leeds,  York,   Bradford, 

Haworth,  &c.  ...  ...  ...  *••    267 

visits  Yorkshire  again  ..  ...  ...  291 

First  visit  of,  to  Brighton  ...  ...  ...  ...    314 

Fletcher,  Venn,  and  Sir  C.  Hotham         ...  ...  375 

Wesley,  Maxfield,  and  others  hold  prayer  meetings  for 


PAGE. 

...       89 

88,89 

119,163 

225, 31 1 

..     105 

116 
...     226 

468 
...     432 

102 
...     108 

118 
...     i48 

163 
...     183 

196 
...     197 

199 
...     216 

264 


the  nation 
Wilks,  Matthew 
Wills,  Mr. 
Wilson,  Mr. 
Wordsworth,  Mrs. 
Wren,  Mr. 

Wynn,  Sir  Watkin  Williams 
YoBK,  Chapel  of  the  Countess  at 

Duke  of... 
Young,  Dr. 

ZlNZ£NDOBFF,  Count 

visits  the  Countess 
Yorkshire 


396 
213 
310 
300 
467 
308 
109 
308 
400 
21 
244-^ 
454 
261 


/  • 


> 


\ 


\/.i 


STANFORD  UNIVERSITY  UBRARIES 

STANFORD  AUXILIARY  IIBRARY 

STANFORD,   CALIFORNIA  94305-6004 

.415)   723-9201 

All  books  may  be  recalled  alter  7  doys 


DATE   DUE 


MAY  2  3  899-^^ 


I 


