DOCUMENT_ID: hutton-missions-1922
TITLE (as printed): A History of Moravian Missions
DATE: 1922
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL: https://archive.org/details/historyofmoravia00huttuoft
EDITION: London: Moravian Publication Office, 1922. Digitized by Internet Archive (University of Toronto copy).
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: Internet Archive OCR (djvu), fetched verbatim, uncorrected
TOTAL LINES: 27149
WORD COUNT: 162298
NOTE: Scholarly narrative history (SECONDARY) by the same author, focused on the missions rather than the home church. Contains extended narrative of Leonard Dober and David Nitschmann's 1732 mission to St Thomas, with quoted direct speech and letters. Quoted material treated as PRIMARY-adjacent; narrative prose SECONDARY. OCR quality: generally good, occasional ligature/line-break artifacts.
---BEGIN TEXT---
No 


/ 


HISTORY 


OF 

MORAVIAN 
MISSIONS 

BY 

J.    E.    HUTTON.   MA 

AUTHOR   OF 

History  of  the  Moravian  Church  ; 

Fire  and  Snow  ;    Life  of  John  Cennick  ; 

The  Downfall  of  Satan. 


Moravian     Publication     Office, 
32.  Fetter  Lane,  London,  E.G.  4. 


TO 

A.   E.   H. 


BV 

H8 


CONTENTS. 

+ 

Book  I.    The  Eighteenth  Century  ^^*^^ 

Pioneers,  1700-1800  3 

Book  II.     The  Builders,  1800-1914     ...  207 

Book  III.     The  Modern  Advance,  1848-1914  321 

Book  IV.    Methods,  Measures  and  Ideals  463 

Epilogue  :     By  Bishop  Arthur  Ward     .     .  503 

Appendix 515 

Errata 581 

Index 583 


LIST    OF    MAPS. 


1.  North  American  Indian  Mission  -     facing  p.  80. 

2.  Eastern  Hemisphere ;    shewing  Moravian  fields 

or     efforts   in    Europe,    Africa,     AustraHa, 

Palestine,    Persia,    India,    Ceylon,   Nicobar 

Islands,  and  Western  Tibet  -     facing  p.  160. 

Inset :   detailed  map  of  South  Africa. 

Nj^'   3.     West  Indies  and  Central  America  -  facing  p.  208. 

4.  Western     Hemisphere ;       shewing     stations    in 

Greenland,     Labrador,     Alaska,    California, 
Surinam,   Demerara   -    -     -     facing  p.  321. 

5.  North  Queensland facing  p.  416. 

6.  Tanganyika  Territory,  Nyassa    -     facing  p.  440. 

7.  Tanganyika    Territory,    Unyamwezi 

facing  p.  456. 


The  maps  are  printed  on  the  following  principle  : — 

Existing  settlements   or  mission-stations,  red. 
Former  mission  fields  or  stations,  blue. 
Missions  temporarily  abandoned,  green. 
All  other  places,  black. 


PREFACE. 

— -f — 

For  assistance  in  the  task  of  writing  this  History — 
a  task  undertaken  at  the  request  of  the  British 
Province  of  the  Moravian  Church — I  am  much 
indebted  to  several  friends,  and  to  each  of  these  I 
herewith  tender  my  thanks.  Bishop  Arthur  Ward 
revised  the  proofs,  made  many  useful  suggestions, 
and  supplied  me  with  invaluable  information. 
Bishop  H.  R.  Mumford  read  the  MS.,  and  suggested 
needful  emendations ;  and  two  other  members  of  the 
Provincial  Mission  Board,  the  Rev.  J.  N.  Libbey,  M.A., 
and  the  Rev.  H.  J.  Wilson,  B.A.,  drew  my  attention 
to  certain  points  of  detail.  Dr.  Heber,  who  is  now 
at  Leh,  read  the  chapter  on  Western  Tibet.  The 
Rev.  Lorenzo  Taylor,  formerly  a  missionary  in 
Nicaragua,  read  the  chapter  on  that  field.  The 
Rev.  T.  L.  Clemens,  who  has  recently  retired  from 
Tobago,  read  some  of  the  sections  on  the  West 
Indies.  Dr.  S.  K.  Hutton  read  the  first  draft  of  the 
chapters  on  Labrador.  Mr.  E.  Hutton,  B.A.,  helped 
me  to  prepare  the  maps.  Mr.  F.  T.  Mann,  B.A., 
corrected  the  proofs.     The  Rev.   J.   Connor,   B.D., 


corrected  the  proofs  and  prepared  the  Index.  The 
Rev.  C.  J.  Klesel  helped  me  to  obtain  valuable 
historical   material. 

As  these  pages  pass  through  the  press,  many 
British  Moravians  are  shewing  a  renewed  interest 
in  Moravian  Missions  ;  and,  if  this  volume  deepens 
that  interest,  one  purpose  for  which  it  has  been 
written  will   have  been   accomplished. 

Dublin,  December,  1922, 


BOOK  I. 


THE  EIGHTEENTH   CENTURY   PIONEERS. 


CHAPTER  PAGE 

1.  The  Dreamer,  1700-31 3 

2.  The  Voice  in  the  Night,  1731-2       .     .     15 

3.  The  Danish  West  Indies,  1736-82    .     .     24 

4.  The  British  West  Indies,  1754-1800     ,     50 

5.  Greenland,  1733-74 57 

6.  The  North  American  Indians,  1734-1808     78 

7.  The  South  American  Indians,  1735-1808  117 

8.  The  BushNegroes  OF  Surinam,  1765-1813  121 

9.  South  Africa  :  The  Hottentots,  1786-44  126 

10.  Labrador,  1752-1804 131 

11.  The  Jews,  1738-42 146 

12.  The  Flying  Scouts,  1734-1822.     .     .     .155 

13.  zinzendorf  as  missionary  leader, 

1731-60  167 

14.  The  Count's  Successors,  1760-1800.     .  187 


A 

HISTORY  OF  MORAVIAN  MISSIONS. 


Chapter  I. 
THE   DREAMER,  1700—1781. 

Among  the  historic  buildings  in  England,  few  are 
of  greater  interest  to  Moravians  than  that  thrice 
famous  house  at  Kettering  where,  on  October  2nd, 
1792,  William  Carey,  one  of  the  founders  of  the 
Baptist  Missionary  Society,  flung  down  on  the 
parlour  table  some  numbers  of  a  missionary  magazine 
entitled  Periodical  Accounts,  and,  addressing  twelve 
other  Baptist  ministers,  exclaimed :  "  See  what 
these  Moravians  have  done  "  ;  and  my  first  duty 
in  this  book  will  be  to  shew  how  much  Carey  meant 
by  that  oft-quoted  remark.  What,  then,  when  Carey 
spoke,  had  the  Moravian  missionaries  done  ?  How 
long  had  they  been  engaged  at  their  task  ?  What 
Gospel  had  they  preached  ?  What  methods  had 
they  employed  ?  Which  countries  had  they  visited  ? 
And  how  much  success  had  they  achieved  ?  Let 
us  haste  at  once  to  the  fountain-head,  and  follow  the 
romantic  story  of  the  eighteenth  century  pioneers. 

For  the  origin  of  Moravian  Missions  we  must  turn 
both  to  a  man  and  to  a  well-known  religious  move- 
ment. The  man  was  Count  Zinzendorf,  the  renewer 
of  the  Moravian  Church,  and  described  by  a  modem 
writer  as  the  "  F^yierj2f^Iodern_Missions."t  The 
reUgious  movement  is  generalTy  knowri~as"Pietism  ; 
and  the  key  to  this  chapter  will  be  found  in  the 
fact  that  while  Zinzendorf  founded  Moravian  MissionF, 


fMiM  Brain,  MiBaionaiy  Review  of  the  World,  1900,  p.  329. 
(5) 


4  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

while  he  gave  the  first  missionaries  their  instructions, 
and  while  he  managed  the  whole  enterprise  down 
to  his  closing  days,  yet,  on  the  other  hand,  he  was 
brought  up  in  Pietist  missionary  circles,  studied 
Pietist  ideals,  learned  from  Pietist  teachers,  and 
both  adopted  and  adapted  Pietist  methods  of  work. 
In  Count  Zinzendorf  we  find  the  leader ;  in  the 
Pietist  Movement  his  environment ;  and  in  certain 
Moravians  his  first  recruits. 
1704-10  The  story  opens  in  his  childhood.  For  about  six 
years  Nicholas  Louis,  Count  Zinzendorf,  who  was  born 
at  Dresden  on  Ascension  Day,  May  26th,  1700,  resided 
in  his  grandmother's  castle  in  the  little  village  of 
Gross -Hennersdorf  in  Saxony  ;  and  though  that  castle 
is  now  a  partial  ruin,  the  visitor  is  still  shewn  the 
window  from  which  the  boy  threw  letters  addressed 
to  Christ.  There,  in  his  grandmother's  beautiful 
home,  the  child,  trained  by  Pietist  teachers,  learned 
not  only  to  love  the  Lord  Christ,  but  even  to  worship 
Him  as  God  ;  there,  on  more  than  one  occasion,  he 
met  the  great  Pietist  leader,  Philip  Spener  ;  and  there, 
at  what  we  should  call  a  drawing-room  meeting,  he 
first  heard  the  glorious  news  which  made  him  a 
missionary  zealot.  At  a  meeting  held  some  years  later 
in  Fetter  Lane,  London  (August  31st,  1753),  Zinzendorf 
told  the  story  himself  to  a  congregation  of  English 
Moravians,  and  the  curious  feature  of  his  narrative 
is  that,  while  he  remembered  the  day  and  the  hour, 
he  was  not  quite  sure  of  the  year.  "  I  know,"  he 
said,  "  the  day,  the  hour,  the  spot  in  Hennersdorf. 
It  was  in  the  Great  Room  ;  the  year  was  1708  or 
1709  ;  I  heard  items  read  out  of  the  paper  about 
the  East  Indies,  before  regular  reports  were  issued  ; 
and  there  and  then  the  first  missionary  impulse 
arose  in  my  soul."  We  have  come  to  the  fountain- 
head  of  Moravian  Missions. 

According    to    Count    Zinzendorf   himself,    whose 


The  Dreamer.  5 

evidence  on  this  point  is  unimpeachable,  his  interest 
in  Foreign  Missions  was  first  aroused  by  the  story 
of  certain  exploits  in  the  East  Indies  ;  and  now  we 
must  ask  to  what  precisely  he  referred.  There 
cannot  be  the  least  doubt  about  the  answer.  Among 
the  more  enlightened  Protestants  in  Germany — 
those,  that  is,  who  had  studied  the  works  of  Baron 
von  Weltz,  the  missionary — the  most  enthusiastic 
were  the  Pietists  ;  the  founder  of  the  move- 
ment, Philip  Spener,  was  a  frequent  visitor  at 
Gross-Hennersdorf  Castle  ;  and  the  work  to  which 
Count  Zinzendorf  referred  was  a  certain  Danish 
mission  in  the  East  Indies  manned  by  Spener's 
colleague,  August  Hermann  Francke.  In  those 
days  Francke  was  undoubtedly  the  greatest 
missionary  leader  in  the  world  ;  and  no  one  exercised 
a  deeper  influence  over  Zinzendorf 's  mind.  By  this 
time  Francke  had  already  accomphshed  wonders. 
By  reading  Leibnitz's  missionary  treatise,  Novissima 
Linica,  Francke  became  convinced  that  one  of  the 
chief  dutigs^ofjhe  Church  was  to  preach  the  Gospel 
to  the  heathen  ;  soon  afterwarSs^^flTOl)  he  himself 
wrote  a  treatise  containing  an  elaborate  scheme  for 
a  Universal  Mission  College  ;  and  then,  seizing  the 
first  chance  that  came,  he  supplied  the  three  men — 
Bartholomew  Ziegenbalg,  Henry  Pliitschau,  and 
Griindler — sent  out  to  the  East  Indies  by  Dr.  Liitken, 
founder  of  the  Danish  College  of  Missions. 
For  our  purpose  this  Mission — begun  at  Tranquebar 
in  1706 — is  of  fundamental  importance.  At  the  very 
time  when  Count  Zinzendorf  was  living  at  Gross- 
Hennersdorf  Castle,  these  three  men  were  sowing 
the  seed  on  the  Coromandel  coast  ;  by  the  aid  of  the 
EngUsh  East  India  Company,  letters,  forwarded 
free  of  charge,  arrived  at  Gross-Hennersdorf  Castle, 
describing  the  progress  of  the  work  ;?  those  letters 
were   read   aloud   in   the   young   Count's   presence ; 


6  A  HiSTOEY  OF  Moravian  Missions. 

and  thereby  he  first  learned  to  take  an  intelligent 
interest  in  Foreign  Missions.  He  was  soon  to  hear 
far  more  from  another  source.  He  was  soon  to  grasp 
the  hands  of  the  men  themselves.  We  come  to  the 
second  stage  in  his  development. 
1710  At  the  age  of  ten  Count  Zinzendorf  was  sent  to 

Francke's  school  at  Halle ;  that  very  year,  as  it 
happened,  Francke  published  the  first  number  of  his 
little  missionary  magazine  entitled,  "  History  of 
the  Evangelical  Missions  in  the  East  for  the  Conver- 
sion of  the  Heathen."!  During  the  whole  of  his  six 
years  at  Halle  (1710-16),  Zinzendorf  lived  in  a 
missionary  atmosphere.  His  own  account  reads  like 
an  exaggeration.  For  the  first  two  or  three  years  of 
his  stay  at  Halle,  Zinzendorf,  so  far  as  I  can  discover, 
was  still  dependent  for  his  knowledge  of  missions 
on  written  reports ;  he  had  not  yet  seen  any 
missionaries  ;  and  yet  he  writes  as  though  he  had 
seen  many,  "  In  Francke's  house,"  he  says,  "  I 
had  chances  every  day  to  hear  edifying  reports  about 
the  spread  of  the  Kingdom  of  God,  to  speak  with 
witnesses  from  foreign  lands,  to  make  the  acquaintance 
of  missionaries,  and  to  see  martyrs  and  prisoners  ; 
and  all  this  strengthened  my  zeal  for  the  cause  of 
Christ."  Let  us  now  see  how  far  this  statement 
is  true.  With  every  allowance  for  exaggeration,  it 
does  at  least  contain  a  kernel  of  fact.  In  a  letter 
to  his  Aunt  Burgsdorf,  dated  November  14th,  1713, 
Zinzendorf  distinctly  mentions  that  for  some  time 
Henry  Pliitschau,  one  of  the  missionaries  from 
Tranquebar,  had  been  staying  at  Francke's  house  ; 
Pliitschau,  he  says,  had  brought  with  him  a  convert 
named  Timothy  ;  and  the  Count  was  so  interested 
in  Timothy  that  he  actually  asked  his  mother  to 
send  the  young  man  a  present.     But  the  next  event 


fThia  is  goiK^nilly  regarded  fts  the  first  MisBioiiary  Magazine  ever 
published.     It  continued  in  various  forms  till  1880. 


The  Dreamer.  7 

was  of  far  greater  importance.  During  the  greater 
part  of  1715  all  the  three  leading  missionaries  from 
Tranquebar,  i.e.,  Ziegenbalg,  Pliitschaii,  and 
Griindler,  were  home  on  furlough  at  Halle  ;  every 
day  these  three  men  dined  at  Francke's  house ; 
and  the  Count,  being  a  noble,  enjoyed  the  same 
privilege.  At  the  dinner  table  Zinzendorf  sat 
between  Francke  and  his  wife ;  and  opposite  to 
him  sat  the  three  missionaries. 

And  now  we  come  to  the  Count's  first  missionary  1715 
act.  Among  his  schoolboy  friends  at  Halle  the  chief 
was  Count  Frederick  de  Watteville ;  Watteville, 
like  Zinzendorf,  sat  at  Francke's  dining-table,  and 
heard  the  three  men  from  the  East  discourse ;  and  one 
day  the  two  boys,  strolling  beside  the  red  palings 
outside  the  school,  formed  a  solemn  covenant.  In 
his  "  Natural  Reflections,"  Zinzendorf  himself 
describes  the  covenant  as  follows  : — "  We  resolved," 
he  says,  "to  do  all  in  our  power  for  the  conversion 
of  the  heathen,  especially  for  those  for  whom  no  one 
else  cared,  and  by  means  of  men  whom  God,  we 
believed,  would  provide."  In  those  words  we  find 
the  key  to  our  story.  The  two  boys  had  formed  a 
threefold  resolution.  First,  they  resolved  to  further 
Missions  ;  secondly,  they  would  give  their  attention 
to  despised  and  neglected  races ;  and  thirdly,  if 
they  could  not  go  themselves,  they  would  trust  in 
God  to  find  recruits.  For  the  third  resolution  they 
have  been  severely  blamed ;  and  Ritschl,  in 
his  History  of  Pietism,  says  that  Zinzendorf 
refused  to  become  a  missionary  himself  because  he 
considered  a  missionary's  work  beneath  the  dignity 
of  a  lord.  To  that  accusation,  however,  there  are 
three  answers.  First,  in  1716  Zinzendorf  and 
Watteville  both  vowed  to  go  to  India  themselves  ; 
secondly,  Zinzendorf's  guardian  intervened,  and 
compelled  him,  whatever  his  wishes,  to  study  law 


8  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

at  Wittenberg ;  and,  thirdly,  Zinzendorf  afterwards 
said  to  Cardinal  Noailles  in  Paris  :  "If  God  had 
chosen  me  for  the  office,  I  should  be  willing  to  run 
the  risk  of  going  abroad."  The  chief  point  to  notice, 
however,  is  the  origin  of  the  covenant.  On  that 
point  Zinzendorf's  evidence  is  decisive.  According 
to  his  own  explicit  statement,  made  at  Fetter  Lane, 
London,  Watteville  and  he  were  influenced,  not  by 
reading  books  or  hearing  reports,  but  solely  and 
entirely  by  the  conversation  of  the  three  missionaries 
from  Tranquebar.  "  We  did  not,"  he  says,  "  come 
to  our  resolution  by  reading  the  Bible  ;  nor  by  reading 
descriptions  of  journeys  ;  nor  even  by  reading  reports 
that  came  to  the  Society  through  the  English  post. 
The  men  who  moulded  our  conduct  were  these  three 
apostles,  Pliitschau,  Ziegenbalg,  and  Griindler.  For 
nearly  a  year  we  dined  with  them  daily  ;  we  even 
talked  to  them  ;  and  they  gave  us  an  idea  of  the  work 
which  we  could  never  have  obtained  from  mere 
reading."  Nor  was  even  this  the  full  extent  of  the 
missionaries'  influence.  For  us  English  readers  the 
interesting  point  to  notice  is  that,  in  1710,  two  of  those 
missionaries,  Ziegenbalg  and  Pliitschau,  were  enrolled 
as  corresponding  members  of  the  S.P.C.K.  Each 
of  these  two  missionaries  came  to  London,  and 
attended  meetings  of  the  Society ;  each,  on  his 
return  to  Halle,  gave  an  account  of  his  experiences  ; 
and,  taking  this  English  Society  as  a  model, 
Zinzendorf,  just  before  he  left  school,  designed, 
though  he  did  not  yet  actually  establish,  what  was 
afterwards  known  as  his  "  Order  of  the  Mustard 
Seed." 

Thus,  at  the  early  age  of  fifteen,  Zinzendorf, 
inspired  by  the  conversation  of  the  three  missionaries 
from  Tranquebar,  had  not  only  begun  to  dream 
dreams,  but  had  formed  more  or  less  definite  plans 
for  the  conversion  of  the  heathen.     During  the  next 


The  Drbamsr.  9 

six  years,  however,  he  was  unable  to  take  any  definite 
steps.  At  that  time  the  prevailing  opinion  in 
Germany  was  that  any  attempt  to  convert  the 
heathen  was  waste  of  time.  His  friend,  Francke, 
was  commonly  regarded  as  a  fanatic ;  most  of 
the  Lutheran  clergy  had  little  evangelical  zeal ; 
and  one  famous  preacher,  Ursinus,  who  seems  to 
have  been  a  popular  type,  expressed  the  opinion 
that  the  heathen  did  not  possess  immnrtitl  snnls. 
^^  It  is^u^elesg,"  >^^  «i»id.  "  ^^^^  tfi-p-nivvfrt  savagi^ 
who  have  nothing  human  about  them  except  the 
shape  ojjtheir  bodies.  Such  are  the  Greenlanders, 
the  Lapps,  tEe  Samoyedes  and  the  cannibals." 
Another  eminent  preacher,  Neumeister,  declared 
that  Foreign  Missions  were  unnecessary  ;  and  closed 
his  sermon  on  Ascension  Day,  1722,  with  the  lines  : — 

In  former  times  'twas  rightly  said. 

Go  forth  to  every  land  ; 
But  now,  where  God  hath  cast  your  lot, 

There  shall  you  ever  stand. 

In  the  Lutheran  Church,  therefore,  Zinzendorf  found 
but  little  support. 

His  first  recruits  came  from  another  source.  As 
soon  as  Zinzendorf  had  completed  the  education  1722 
designed  by  his  guardian — first  at  Wittenberg 
University  and  then  by  means  of  the  usual  grand 
tour — he  took  office,  for  the  time  being,  as  Aulic 
Councillor  at  Dresden ;  then  (1722)  he  married 
his  cousin,  Erdmuth  Dorothea,  bought  from  his 
grandmother  the  estate  of  Berthelsdorf,  ten  miles 
from  the  Bohemian  frontier,  installed  his  friend, 
John  Andrew  Rothe,  as  pastor,  and  devoted  his 
leisure  to  the  task  of  establishing  a  "  Church  within 
the  Church  "  in  the  village  ;  and,  almost  immediately 
/  after  the  purchase,  he  was  informed  by  his  steward 
I  that    some    persecuted    Protestants   from   Moravia, 


10  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

led  by  Christian  David,  a  carpenter,  desired  to 
settle  on  his  estate.  Without  a  thought  of 
the  future,  Zinzendorf  gave  his  consent.  He  had 
never  heard  of  these  Moravians  before.  For  a 
hundred  years  the  brave  descendants  of  the  old 
Bohemian  Brethren  had  held  the  faith  of  their 
fathers  in  the  Kineland  of  Moravia.  They  had 
i  buried  their  Bibles  in  their  gardens,  had  held  their 
meetings  at  midnight  in  garrets  and  stables,  had 
preserved  their  records  in  dovecots  and  in  the  thatched 
roofs  of  their  cottages,  and  had  feasted  on  the  glorious 
promises  of  the  Book  of  Revelation  ;  and  now,  when 
persecution  broke  out  afresh,  they  bade  farewell 
to  their  ancient  homes,  left  their  goods  and  chattels 
behind  them,  and  built  on  Zinzendorf's  estate  the 
far-famed  settlement  of  Herrnhut.  In  these  men, 
though  he  knew  it  not,  Zinzendorf  was  soon  to  find 
his  first  missionaries  to  the  heathen.  From 
Senftleben  came  Christian  David,  one  of  the  first 
missionaries  to  Greenland ;  from  Sehlen,  the  Neissers, 
some  of  whom  preached  to  the  Indians ;  from 
Zauchtenthal  the  Nitschmanns  and  David  Zeisberger, 
the  great  apostle  to  the  Indians  ;  from  Kunewalde, 
George  Schmidt,  the  first  missionary  to  South 
Africa,  and  Frederick  Bohnisch,  another  Greenland 
pioneer ;  and  from  Mankendorf,  Matthew  Stach, 
the  founder  of  the  Greenland  Mission.  It  is  simply 
amazing  how  events  turned  out.  At  the  time  not 
one  of  these  men  had  the  least  idea  of  becoming  a 
foreign  missionary.  For  that  task,  however,  no  men 
could  be  better  fitted.  Each  had  the  blood  of 
martyrs  in  his  veins  ;  each  had  learned  to  suffer  for 
his  faith.  Some  had  been  chilled  to  the  neck  in 
wells ;  some  had  been  yoked  with  oxen  to  the 
plough  ;  some  had  lain  in  dungeons  swarming  with 
vermin.  For  the  sake  of  Christ  they  had  left  all 
behind   them ;     for   the   sake   of  Christ   they   were 


The  Dreamer.  11 

soon   to   march   beneath  the   banner  of  the   Cross. 

Meanwhile,  another  force  was  at  work.  In  addition 
to  providing  a  home  for  the  emigrants  from  Moravia, 
Zinzendorf  gave  a  welcome  to  other  persecuted 
Protestants  from  various  parts  of  Germany  ;  among 
these  were  a  few  Schwenkfelders,  Evangelicals  from 
Swabia,  and  Pietists  from  the  immediate  neighbour- 
hood ;  and  some  of  these  last,  in  due  time,  became 
Moravian  missionaries.  From  Miinchroth,  in 
Wiirtemberg,  e.g.,  came  Leonard  Dober,  the  first 
missionary  in  St.  Thomas ;  from  Pommerschwitz, 
in  Upper  Silesia,  Dober's  great  successor,  Frederick 
Martin ;  from  Wernigerode,  Louis  Dahne,  after- 
wards a  missionary  in  Surinam  ;  from  a  village 
near  Lobschutz,  in  Upper  Silesia,  John  Beck,  a 
well-known  leader  in  Greenland  ;  and  from  Grabow, 
in  Brandenburg,  Solomon  Schumann,  the  Apostle 
to  the  Arawacks.  Thus  did  two  streams  meet 
at  Herrnhut  to  form  the  broad  river  of  Moravian 
Missions  ;  and  therefore,  in  Zinzendorf's  missionary 
army,  we  find  two  distinct  elements.  One  part 
consisted  of  descendants  of  the  old  Moravian  Church  ; 
the  other  consisted  chiefly  of  Pietists  ;  and  the  two 
formed  a  powerful  combination.  The  Moravians 
were  stern  and  laid  the  chief  stress  on  ethics  ;  the" 
Pietists  were  more  evangelical  and  sentimental ; 
and  some  time  elapsed  before  the  two  elements 
could  be  thoroughly  fused. 

It  was  here  that  Zinzendorf  shewed  his  organizing 
genius.  For  two  or  three  years  there  existed  at 
Herrnhut  a  considerable  amount  of  ill-feehng  between 
the  Moravians  and  the  Lutherans  ;  and  Zinzendorf, 
acting  as  mediator,  not  only  changed  the  duel 
into  a  duet,  but  organized  the  whole  community 
into  an  efficient  fighting  force.  His  process  of  training 
lasted  four  years  ;  and  during  those  four  years  he  1727-31 
employed  four  methods.     First,  to  teach  the  settlers 


12  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

obedience,  he  persuaded  them  to  sign  their  names 
to  a  number  of  Statutes,  known  as  the  Brotherly 
Agreement  (July  4th,  1727) ;  secondly,  to  teach 
them  Christian  charity,  he  invited  them  to  a  Holy 
Communion  in  Berthelsdorf  Parish  Church,  and  there 
t;he  Brethren  were  all  so  filled  with  the  Spirit  that 
that  day  (August  13th,  1727)  was  justly  regarded  as 
the  spiritual  birthday  of  the  renewed  Moravian 
Church ;  thirdly,  he  deepened  their  spiritual 
experience  by  means  of  Bands,  Classes,  Hourly 
Intercessions,  Singing  Meetings,  and  the  Daily 
Watchword  ;  and  fourthly,  and  above  all,  he  not 
only  sent  some  of  the  settlers  on  reconnoitring 
expeditions  to  England,  Denmark,  Sweden,  Hungary, 
Moravia,  and  the  Baltic  Provinces,  but  also,  in  con- 
nexion with  these  expeditions,  established  a  monthly 
Missionary  Prayer  Day.  Meanwhile,  his  missionary 
schemes  took  definite  form.  In  1727  he  wrote  to 
the  Danish  Court  and  offered  to  send  Moravian 
Missionaries  to  Greenland ;  in  1728,  on  the  first 
Prayer  Day,  February  10th,  he  propounded  plans 
for  preaching  the  Gospel  in  the  West  Indies,  Green- 
land, Turkey,  and  Lapland  ;  and  next  day,  February 
11th,  led  by  one  Leonard  Dober,  twenty-six  young 
men  made  a  League  and  Covenant  to  respond  to  the 
first  clear  sound  of  the  bugle  call.  In  those  twenty- 
six  men  we  find  the  vanguard  of  the  great  Moravian 
missionary  army.  During  the  next  four  years  they 
1728-32  endeavoured  to  prepare  themselves  for  the  mighty 
task.  Each  evening,  after  a  hard  day's  work  in  the 
open  air,  they  met  in  a  common  room  and  studied 
medicine,  geography,  and__languages ;  sometimes 
Zinzendorf  himself  gave  them  lectures  on  Church 
history  ;  and  standing  on  the  Pisgah  heights  of  hope, 
they  declared  that  they  desired  to  be  ready  when  the 
blessed  time  should  come.  At  the  monthly  Prayer 
Day,    Zinzendorf  was   at   his   best.     Sometimes    he 


The  Dreamer.  IS 

read  out  a  piece  of  news  in  vivid  dramatic  style; 
sometimes  he  read  a  letter  from  a  travelling  brother  ; 
sometimes  he  introduced  a  i-isitor  from  Denmark  or 
Lapland  ;  and  sometimes,  on  the  spur  of  the  moment, 
he  even  composed  and  sang  a  missionary  hymn. 

For  the  history  of  modern  Protestant  Missions, 
the  importance  of  these  events  can  hardly  be  over- 
estimated. In  one  sense  Zinzendorf's  work  may  be 
called  unique.  By  means  of  the  foregoing  methods 
he  changed  a  band  of  refugees  into  a  missionary 
army ;  and  history,  says  Dr.  Bemhard  Becker, 
supplies  no  similar  example.  The  change  at  Herrnhut 
was  wonderful.  In  bidding  farewell  to  their  ancient 
homes,  the  emigrants  had  merely  sought  a  city  of 
refuge,  and  their  marching  song  contained  the  lines : — 

Himself  will  lead  me  to  a  spot 
Where,  all  my  cares  and  griefs  forgot, 
I  shall  enjoy  sweet  rest. 

But  now  the  Count  had  given  them  a  new  ideal. 
In  the  past  they  had  longed  for  peace  and  quiet ; 
now  they  were  eager  to  face 

Strange  scenes,  strange  men,  untold,  untried 

success  ; 
Pain,  hardships,  famine,  cold,  and  nakedness. 

Behind  them  lay  the  Moravian  dales  and  the  cleft 
defiles  of  the  Saxon  Switzerland  ;  before  them,  dreary 
frozen  shores  and  palmy  islands  set  in  summer  seas. 
The  Count  had  found  his  men,  and  the  men  had 
found  their  caUing. 

Let  us  pause  to  glance  at  the  chain  of  cause  and 
effect.  It  is  a  curious  fact  that  Moravian  Missions 
can  be  traced  to  the  example  of  the  Jesuits.  On 
his  visit  to  Rome,  the  philosopher  Leibnitz  met  some 
Jesuit  missionaries  who  had  worked  at  Pekin. 
Inspired  by  their  zeal,  he  wrote  his  missionary 
treatise    Novissima    Linica ;     this    treatise    opened 


14  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Francke's  eyes  ;  Francke  inspired  the  "  three  men 
to  the  East  "  ;  the  three  men  stirred  the  zeal  of  the 
Count ;  and  the  Count  trained  the  refugees  at 
Herrnhut. 


Note. — Was,  then,  the  zeal  of  the  first  Moravian  missionaries 
due  entirely,  humanly  speaking,  to  the  influence  of  Zinzendorf  ? 
One  other  influence  has,  of  course,  been  suggested.  In  his 
"  History  of  the  Moravian  Church  during  the  Eighteenth  and 
Nineteenth  Centuries,"  Bishop  J.  T.  Hamilton  points  out  (p.  50) 
that  Bishop  John  Amos  Comenius,  in  his  "Judicium  duplex 
de  regula  fidei "  (published  1644),  declared  that  it  was  the  duty 
of  the  Church  to  evangelize  the  heathen,  and  Comenius,  he 
says,  was  also  thinking  of  a  mission  to  the  Mahometans,  and 
had  planned  the  translation  of  the  Scriptures  into  Turkish. 
Had  Comenius,  then,  any  influence  over  the  settlers  at 
Herrnhut  ?  I  fear  not.  For  anything  I  know  to  the 
contrary,  some  of  those  settlers  may  conceivably  have  read 
his  book.  No  proof  to  that  effect,  however,  has  as  yet  been 
discovered ;  and,  if  the  settlers  had  not  read  the  book,  it 
cannot  have  influenced  their  conduct. 


Chapter  II. 

THE    VOICE    IN    THE    NIGHT,    1781—1782. 

As  soon  as  the  fighting  force  was  ready,  the 
marching  order  rang  out.  The  next  scene  of  the 
story  is  in  Denmark.  For  some  years  Count  1731 
Zinzendorf,  who  had  a  Httle  royal  blood  in  his  veins, 
and  claimed  connexion  with  the  Danish  Royal 
Family,  had  lived  on  terms  of  friendship  with 
Christian,  the  Danish  Crown  Prince.  In  1730  this 
young  man  succeeded  to  the  throne  as  Christian  VI., 
and  next  year  the  Count  was  invited  to  be  present 
at  the  Coronation  at  Copenhagen.  The  invitation 
caused  him  great  perplexity.  For  some  indefinable 
reason,  he  was  afraid  to  go  ;  yet,  on  the  other  hand, 
he  hoped  that  if  he  presented  himself  at  Court  he 
might  receive  some  official  appointment  which  would 
aid  him  in  his  missionary  plans  ;  and,  not  being  able 
to  settle  the  question  himself,  he  summoned  a  meeting 
of  the  Brethren,  and  put  the  matter  to  the  vote. 
The  number  present  at  the  meeting  was  fifty-seven. 
For  the  journey  thirty-eight  votes  were  cast ;  against 
it  four ;  and  the  other  Brethren  declined  to  give 
an  opinion.  The  Count  consulted  the  Lot ;  the 
Lot  said  "  Yes  "  ;  and,  taking  four  Bretliren  with 
him,  the  Count  set  off  for  Copenhagen.  "  I  have,'* 
he  wrote  in  his  diary,  "  a  clear  con^dction  that 
God  has  a  secret  purpose  in  this  journey  which  will 
come  to  light  in  His  own  time."  In  a  few  days  his  April 25th 
premonitions  were  justified.  At  Copenhagen  he 
met  Count  Laurwig,  Master  of  the  Horse.  This  man 
had  in  his  service  a  negro-slave  from  St.  Thomas, 
named  Anthony  Ulrich  ;  and  Anthony  soon  poured 
into  Zinzendorf's  ears  a  heart-rending  tale  about 
the  slaves.     He  spoke  of  his  own  brother  and  sister, 

(13) 


IC  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Abraham  and  Anna,  and  of  their  keen  desire  to  hear 
the  Gospel. 

"  If  only  some  missionaries  would  come,"  he  said, 
"  they  would  certainly  be  heartily  welcomed.  Many 
an  evening  have  I  sat  on  the  shore  and  sighed  my 
soul  towards  Christian  Europe."  To  Zinzendorf 
this  was  a  genuine  message  from  God.  Without 
the  slightest  hesitation,  he  arranged  with  Count 
Laurwig  that  Anthony  might,  a  few  weeks  later, 
pay  a  visit  to  Herrnhut ;  then,  on  his  own  return  to 
Herrnhut,  he  summoned  the  Brethren  to  a  meeting, 
and  repeated  Anthony's  tale  (July  23rd)  ;  and  that 
address  stirred  the  soul  of  the  first  Moravian 
missionary  to  the  heathen. 

Again  the  effect  was  swift.  That  night  another 
missionary  star  began  to  shine.  As  young  Leonard 
Dober  lay  tossing  on  his  couch  his  soul  was  sore 
distressed ;  and  thinking  about  the  benighted 
slaves  of  whom  the  Count  had  just  spoken,  he  heard, 
he  was  sure,  a  stern  Voice  bid  him  rise  and  preach 
deliverance  to  the  captives.  "  Thou  art  the 
chosen  man  for  St.  Thomas,"  it  said.  But  whence 
the  Voice  came  he  could  not  surely  say.  On  the  one 
hand,  it  might  be  his  own  excited  fancy ;  on  the  other, 
it  might  be  the  Voice  of  God.  Again  and  again 
he  heard  the  haunting  words.  With  his  mind 
still  torn  in  twain  he  fell  asleep.  jIn  the  morning 
he  consulted  his  Text  Book ;  and  opening  it  at 
July  24th  random,  he  read  the  message,  "  It  is  not  a  vain  thing 
for  you,  because  it  is  your  life,  and  through  this 
thing  ye  shall  prolong  your  days.  Deut.  xxxii.,  47." 
As  these  words,  however,  were  not  the  text  for  the 
day,  he  could  hardly  take  them  as  God's  answer  to 
his  question ;  and  he  was,  moreover,  perfectly  sure 
that  if  God  had  chosen  him  for  the  foreign  field  He 
would  speak  in  still  clearer  tones.  He  determined 
to  consult  with  his  friend,   Tobias  Leupold.     The 


The  Voice  in  thz  Night.  17 

day  faded,  the  evening  fell,  and  the  two  young 
men,  as  their  custom  was,  strolled  together  among 
the  brushwood  that  fringed  the  City  on  the  Hill. 
And  then  Leonard  Dober  laid  bare  his  heart,  and 
learned  to  his  amazement  that  all  that  day  Tobias 
had  been  in  the  same  perplexing  pass.  Each  had 
heard  the  same  solemn  Voice  in  the  night :  each  had 
fought  the  same  doubts  :  each  had  feared  to  speak 
his  mind,  and  had  wondered  what  the  other  would 
say ;  and  now  they  looked  into  each  other's  eyes, 
knelt  together  in  the  gloaming,  and,  joining  their 
trembling  voices  in  prayer,  asked  to  be  guided 
aright.  Sacred  and  glorious  was  the  moment.  As 
they  rose  from  their  knees  they  felt  assured  that  the 
answer  would  soon  be  given. 

Within  half-an-hour  it  came.  As  soon  as  they  had 
finished  their  conversation,  they  joined  the  rest 
of  the  Single  Brethren  :  and  the  whole  company, 
striking  up  a  hymn,  marched  two-and-two  past 
Zinzendorf's  house.  The  Count  was  standing  at  the 
door,  with  his  friend  Melchior  Schafer,  the  Pastor 
of  GorUtz,  by  his  side ;  and  just  as  the  two  young 
men  drew  near,  he  stepped  forward  and  said  :  "  Sir, 
among  these  young  men  there  are  missionaries  to 
St.  Thomas,  Greenland,  Lapland,  and  other 
countries." 

At  these  words  the  hearts  of  Dober  and  Leupold 
bounded  with  secret  joy.  Next  day  (July  25th) 
they  met  again,  and  drafted  the  following  letter.f 
It  was  the  first  offer  for  service  in  Moravian  Missions. 

Private. 

To  His  Highness  the  Count. 

My  Deah  Count, 

I  know  that  I  may  speak  quite  plainly  to 

tThe  German  original,  withered  and  yellow,  lie*  to-day  in  the 
Hermhat  Archivea. 


18  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

you,  and  that  you  will  not  take  it  amiss  if  I  tell 
you  about  an  incident  that  occurred  just  after  you 
told  us  about  your  journey.  On  that  very  evening 
it  came  home  to  Brother  Leonard  Dober  that  he 
must  go  to  the  slaves.  (We  did  not  meet,  however, 
till  yesterday  evening.)  "  If  only  you  are  fit  for 
the  work,"  said  he  to  himself,  "  you  and  Leupold 
must  go."  With  this  thought  in  his  mind  he  fell 
asleep.  No  other  Brother's  name  occurred  to  him. 
In  the  morning  he  woke  up  with  the  same  idea. 
"  You  must  now  see,"  he  said,  "  whether  this  is 
only  fancy."  With  this  intent  he  opened  his 
Text  Book,  and  read  the  text  for  August  8rd 
(Deut.  XXXII.,  47).  He  then  resolved  that  he 
would  consult  with  me,  and  that  if  I  had  the 
same  idea  he  would  consider  the  matter  settled. 
In  this  way  he  would  lay  the  case  before  God, 
and  notice  what  occurred.  In  the  evening  we 
met  and  went  together  into  the  brushwood.  He 
said  he  had  something  private  to  say  to  me,  told 
me  the  whole  story,  and  added  that  the  matter 
had  been  on  his  mind  all  day.  In  reply,  I  said 
that  the  same  thought  had  several  times  occurred 
to  me,  that  the  affair  concerned  us  both,  that  I,  too, 
as  I  was  walking  home,  had  resolved  that  if  the 
Brethren  called  us  both  I  could  say  nothing  against 
it,  and  that  I  had  thought  of  no  colleague  but  him 
and  no  people  but  the  slaves.  It  was  this  that 
impressed  us  so  much :  we  had  both  had  the 
same  thought.  No  doubt  to  some  all  this  will 
sound  egotistical ;  but  when  we  remember  how 
our  friendship  began,  what  obstacles  lay  in  the  way, 
and  how,  if  we  had  followed  our  natural  feelings, 
we  should  never  have  come  together  at  all,  we 
feel  that  our  action  is  justified,  and  can  only  be 
thankful  for  the  favour  God  has  shown  us.  Last 
night    we    had    another    encouraging    experience, 


The  Voice  in  the  Nicht.  19 

I  heard  the  words  about  Greenlanders  and  Lap- 
landers, and  resolved  to  write  to  you.  I  had  no 
further  chance  of  seeing  Dober  last  night.  To-day 
I  saw  him  again  and  asked  his  opinion.  He  said  he 
thought  of  suggesting  himself  that  I  should  write 
to  you.  Dear  Brother,  please  keep  the  matter 
private,  think  it  over,  and  let  us  know  your 
opinion.  May  the  Lord  lead  us  in  the  right  path, 
rough  though  that  path  may  be. 

I  remain,  for  ever. 

Your  obedient  fellow-member, 

TOBLVS  LEUPOLD. 
July  25th,  1781. 

As  soon  as  this  modest  proposal  was  ready, 
Leonard  Dober  shpped  it  into  Zinzendorf's  hands. 
The  Coimt  was  charmed,  discussed  the  project  with 
them,  and  then,  without  revealing  their  name*, 
read  the  letter  to  the  congregation. 

Four  days  later,  July  29th,  Anthony  Ulrich  arrived 
at  Herrnhut.  He  had  come  at  Zinzendorf's  request, 
p'pr  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  the  Christian 
Church  a  negro  slave  from  the  West  Indies  stood  up 
to  address  a  congregation  of  orthodox  Lutheran 
Protestants  ;  and  the  chief  burden  of  his  message 
was  that  no  one  could  possibly  preach  to  the  slaves 
unless  he  first  became  a  slave  himself.  They  had 
to  work  all  day,  he  said,  on  the  plantations  ;  they 
had  to  slink  off  to  their  huts  when  the  curfew  sounded  ; 
they  were  not  allowed  to  go  out  after  sunset ;  and, 
therefore,  no  one  could  preach  the  Gospel  to  them 
unless  he  worked  with  them  among  the  sugar  canes. 
His  speech  made  Dober  and  Leupold  keener  than 
ever.  If  they  could  only  win  one  soul  thereby, 
they  wer«  ready,  they  declared,  to  sell   themselves 


ao  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

as  slaves. f  For  a  year  the  issue  remained  in 
doubt.  With  all  their  evangelistic  zeal,  the 
Brethren  had  common-sense.  Some  said  that  the 
offer  was  reckless  and  premature  ;  some  dubbed 
it "  the  pretty  imagination  of  young  officious  minds  "  ; 
and  some  even  called  it  a  bid  for  fame.  For  these 
doubts  and  fears  the  Brethren  had  their  own  reasons. 
They  had  heard  of  Egede's  dismal  failure  in  Green- 
land. As  Egede,  they  said,  was  not  only  a  scholar 
but  a  faithful  preacher,  it  did  not  seem  likely  that, 
while  he  hadi  ^failed,  two  ignorant  mechanics 
would  succeed.  To  these  arguments,  however, 
the  Count  had  a  convincing  reply.  He  had 
studied  Egede's  methods  ;  he  could  see  why  Egede 
had  failed  ;  he  believed  that  if  the  Brethren  tried 
a  new  method  they  would  succeed  ;  and  in  a  letter 
to  a  friend  in  England  he  explained  what  that 
method  was,  and  thereby  made  his  first  contribution 
to  the  Science  of  Foreign  Missions.  In  that  letter* 
we  find  the  germ  of  all  his  later  ideas.  "  You  are 
not,"  he  wrote,  "  to  aim  at  the  conversion  of  whole 
nations :  you  must  simply  look  for  seekers  after 
the  truth  who,  like  the  Ethiopian  eunuch,  seem  ready 
to  welcome  the  Gospel.  Second,  you  must  go 
straight  to  the  point  and  tell  them  about  the  life 
and  death  of  Christ.     Third,   you  must  not  stand 

•fl  must  here  correct  a  very  widespread  error.  In  an 
article  in  the  Hibbtrt  Journal  (January,  1920),  entitled 
"  Is  Christ  Alive  To  day  ?  "  (p.  368),  Miss  Constance  Maynard 
says  that  some  of  the  Moravian  missionaries  "  voluntarily 
sold  themselves  as  slaves  to  work  with  a  gang  in  the  cruel 
cotton  plantations."  This  is  not  correct.  No  missionary 
ever  became  a  slave.  The  truth  is  that,  so  far  from  being 
slaves,  some  of  the  missionaries,  both  in  Surinam  and  in  the 
West  Indies,  were  compelled,  much  against  their  will,  to 
become  slave  ownen.  They  could  find  no  other  way  of 
earning  a  living. 

*Dated  Hermhut,  April  12th,  1732 ;  addressed,  probably,  to 
a  member  of  the  S.P.Q.  For  the  letter  in  full,  see  BQdingsche 
Sammlungen,  Vol,  III.,  p.  189. 


The  Voice  in  the  Night.  21 

aloof  from  the  heathen,  but  humble  yourself,  mix 
with  them,  treat  them  as  Brethren,  and  pray  with 
them  and  for  them."  To  Dober  himself  he  talked 
in  a  similar  strain.  He  encouraged  him  from  the 
outset,  defended  him  against  his  critics,  took  him 
with  liim  on  a  trip  to  Thuringia,  and  gave  him 
detailed  instructions  about  his  work.  "  What  is  it," 
he  asked,  "  that  the  heathen  know  already  ?  They 
know  that  there  is  a  God  (Rom.  i.,  19,  20)  ;  and, 
therefore,  the  man  who  tells  them  of  God  is  simply 
wasting  his  time.  ^Qliat2sj.tJth^t,they^do  not  know  ? 
They  do  not  know  that  Christ  came  into  the  world 
to  save  sinners ;  and,  tjierefore^  the  missionary 
paust  always  begin  with  the  Gospel  Message.  And 
how  is  it  that  missiohaHes  have  laired"rn~the  past  ? 
They  have  failed  because,  instead  of  preaching 
Christ,  they  have  given  lectures  on  theology." 

The  effect  on  Dober  was  encouraging.  In  spite  of 
the  objections  of  his  critics,  he  felt  that  he  was  called 
to  a  mighty  task,  and,  therefore,  he  wrote  another 
letter  and  re-stated  his  resolve  (June  16th,  1732).  June  16th, 
His  plea  was  beautifully  simple :  "  I  know  the  grace  of  1732 
Christ  myself,  and  I  know  that  in  St.  Thomas  there 
are  slaves  who  cannot  believe  because  they  have  not 
heard.  If  another  Brother  will  go  with  me,  I  am 
ready  to  become  a  slave  myself."  The  appeal  went 
home,  the  Brethren  yielded,  and  the  matter 
appeared  to  be  settled.  But  now,  strange  to  say, 
the  Count  himself  still  doubted.  For  the  second 
time  he  submitted  a  Foreign  Mission  issue  to  the 
Lot.  "  Are  you  willing,"  he  said  to  Dober,  "  to 
consult  the  Saviour  by  means  of  the  Lot  ?  " 

"  For  myself,"  replied  Dober,  "  I  am  already  sure 
enough,  but  I  will  do  so  for  the  sake  of  the  Brethren." 

A  meeting  was  held  (July  16th)  ;    a  box  of  Scripture  July  16th 
passages  was  brought  into  the  room  ;  and  Dober  drew 
a  slip  bearing  the  words  :    "  Let  the  lad  go,  for  the 


a  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Lord  is  with  him."|  Thus  was  the  final  verdict 
given ;  and  Dober  made  ready  for  his  journey. 
But  once  again  the  Lot  had  to  shape  his  plans.  It 
decided,  not  only  that  Dober  might  go,  but  that  his 
friend  Leupold  must  stay  at  home.  He  chose 
another  companion,  David  Nitschmann.  As  we 
look  at  the  faces  of  those  two  pioneers,  we  see  how 
two  distinct  movements  had  clasped  hands  at 
Herrnhut.  The  first,  Dober,  was  a  Lutheran  from 
Wiirtemberg ;  the  second,  Nitschmann,  was  a 
Moravian  from  Zauchtenthal ;  and  thus  the  two 
elements  of  which  the  Renewed  Moravian  Church 
was  composed  joined  hands  to  begin  the  work  of 
Foreign  Missions.  Let  us  not  despise  them 
as  ignorant  mechanics.  Leonard  Dober  was  only  a 
potter  ;  David  Nitschmann  was  only  a  carpenter  ; 
and  yet  there  were  not  two  men  in  the  world  more 
fitted  for  their  task.  Each  had  a  clear  conception 
of  the  Gospel ;  each  possessed  the  gift  of  ready 
speech ;  and  each  knew  exactly  what  Gospel  to 
preach.  At  an  evening  meeting  (August  18th)  the 
Brethren  assembled  to  wish  the  two  men  God-speed  ; 
the  feeling  at  Herrnhut  was  intense  ;  and  before  the 
Brethren  parted  that  night  they  sang  about  a 
hundred  hymns.  Among  others  they  must  have 
sung  the  following  lines,  written  by  Zinzendorf  a 
few  weeks  before  : — 

"  We  will  count  our  lives  a  treasure. 
While  reserved  for  His  use, 
But  at  His  command,  with  pleasure 
Wealth  and  life  for  Jesus  lose." 

AugZlst,        The  birthday  of   Moravian   Missions  now  arrived. 

1732        At  three  o'clock  in  the  morning  (Thursday,  August 

21st,    1732)   the   two    men    stood    waiting   in    front 

of  Zinzendorf's  house.     The  Count  had  spent  some 

fNot  a  text ;    there  ia  no  ■uch  text  in  the  Bible. 


The  Voice  in  the  Night.  88 

hours  that  night  in  prayer  and  conversation  with 
Dober.  His  carriage  was  waiting  at  the  door  ;  the 
grey  of  morning  glimmered  ;  and  silence  lay  upon 
Hermhut.  Not  a  Brother  or  Sister  was  up  to  see 
these  heroes  set  off.  The  Count  took  the  reins  and 
drove  them  as  far  as  Bautzen.  They  ahghted 
outside  the  sleeping  town,  knelt  down  on  the  quiet 
roadside  and  joined  the  Count  in  prayer.  The 
Coimt  laid  his  hands  on  Dober's  head  and  blessed 
him.  His  last  instructions  were  of  a  general  nature. 
"Do  all  in  the  spirit  of  Jesus  Christ," f  he  said.  He 
gave  them  a  ducat  apiece.  The~two  heralds  rose 
from  their  knees,  bade  the  Count  good-bye,  and 
stepped  out  for  Copenhagen.* 

■fin  most  histories  of  Moravian  Missions  it  is  stated  that  theie 
were  Zinzendorf's  only  instmctions.  The  foregoing  narrative 
shows  that  this  is  not  true. 

*The  connexion  of  the  Moravian  Chnrch  with  Denmark  had 
another  interesting  result.  Many  of  the  early  Moravian 
missionaries    were    Danes.     The    most    Important    were  :— 

(1)  Labrador:  Jens  ilavein  Drachart,  Jensen,  and  Dr.  Brasen  ; 

(2)  Greenland  :  John  Sorenden  ;  (3)  Tranquebar  :  Brodersen  ; 
(4)  Danish  West  Indies  Heller,  MattMesen,  Wied;  (5)  BritiBh^ 
Waat  Indies;  Bentien,  DaVih^,  Arinlj^h  Note,  also,  m  the 
nineteenth  centnry,  Rasmns  Schmm^,  in  Surinam,  and 
Jean  Paul  Jiirgensen  on  the  Moskito  Coast.  Nor  do  even  these 
facts  complete  the  tale.  As  these  pages  are  passing  through 
the  press,  eight  Danish  missionaries  are  on  their  way  to 
resume  the  work  in  Unyamwezi. 


Chapter  III. 

THE  DANISH  WEST  INDIES,  1736—1782. 

1.    The  First  Two  Pioneers,  1782-4. 

As  the  two  pioneers  set  out  on  their  journey 
they  looked  more  Hke  pedlars  than  preachers.  They 
carried  bundles  on  their  backs  ;  they  wore  brown 
cut-away  coats  and  quaint  three-cornered  hats  ;  and 
they  had  between  them  about  thirty  shillings  in 
their  pockets.  With  swinging  strides  they  marched 
along.  The  pace  was  thirty  or  forty  miles  a  day. 
From  time  to  time  they  paid  passing  calls  at  the 
houses  of  Christian  friends. 

"  Back  !  Back  to  Herrnhut,"  said  the  friends, 
"  there  is  danger  and  death  ahead." 

But  the  Brethren  had  put  their  hands  to  the 
plough,  and  did  not  stay  to  argue.  They  were 
marching  as  volunteers  of  the  Lutheran  Church ; 
they  had  Luther's  mettle  in  their  blood  ;  and  now, 
like  Luther  at  the  Diet  of  Worms,  they  answered  ; 
"  We  can  no  other :  the  will  of  the  Lord  must  be  done." 
From  one  friend  only  did  they  hear  a  word  of  cheer. 
At  Wernigerode  they  called  on  the  Countess  of 
StoUberg.  She  gave  them  a  pleasant  surprise.  She 
asked  Dober  how  he  felt  when  he  left  his  father 
and  mother,  brought  him  a  Halle  box  of  texts,  and 
asked  him  to  draw  one  out.  He  drew  the  words 
from  the  forty-fifth  Psalm  :  "  Hearken,  O  Daughter, 
and  consider  and  incline  thine  ear :  forget  also  thine 
own  people  and  thy  father's  house."  The  Countess 
was  delighted.  Once  more  the  Voice  of  God  was 
urging  them  onward.  "  Go  then,"  she  said,  "  and 
even  if  they  kill  you  for  the  Saviour's  sake,  He  is 
worth  it  all." 
Sept.  15th      They   arrived   a   few   days   later   at   Copenhagen, 

(14) 


The  Danish  West  Indies.  25 

made  their  way  to  the  Palace,  presented  their  letters 
of  introduction,  and  boldly  announced  their  purpose. 
Their  arrival  created  a  sensation.  Never,  since  the 
days  of  Hamlet,  had  such  a  brace  of  fools  been  seen 
in  Denmark  ;  by  friend  and  foe  alike  they  were 
laughed  to  scorn  ;  and  when  they  said  that  they 
were  willing  to  work  as  slaves,  they  were  told  that 
they  must  be  moonstruck.  In  vain  they  applied 
for  a  passage  to  the  Directors  of  the  Danish  West 
Indian  Company.  The  Directors  flatly  refused. 
"  It  is  no  use  taking  artisans  to  St.  Thomas,"  they 
said ;  "  there  is  nothing  for  artisans  to  do,  and  the 
two  men  would  never  be  able  to  earn  their  living." 
Still  worse,  their  old  friend,  Anthony  Ulrich,  now 
turned  traitor.  As  soon  as  he  saw  which  way  the 
wind  was  blowing,  he  changed  his  tune,  denied  aU 
that  he  had  said  about  his  brother  Abraham  and  his 
sister  Anna,  declared  that  neither  they  nor  any  other 
slaves  had  the  least  desire  to  hear  the  Gospel,  and 
joined  with  all  the  fine  lords  and  ladies  in  denouncing 
the  Brethren  as  fools. 

Von  Pless,  the  King's  Chamberlain,  raised  a  very 
serious  difficulty.  As  the  Brethren  were  not  to  be 
paid  for  preaching,  von  Pless  could  not  understand 
how  they  would  come  by  a  living.  They  were  not 
ordained  ;  they  could  not  be  recognised  as  clergy- 
men ;  and  they  had  no  Society  behind  them  to 
supply  the  funds. 

"  How  do  you  intend  to  earn  your  living  ?  " 

"  As  slaves  among  the  slaves." 

"  But  that  is  impossible,"  retorted  Von  Pless. 
"  It  will  not  be  allowed.  No  white  man  eygr  works 
asji  slave." 

"  Very  well,"  replied  Nitschmann,  "  I  am  a 
carpenter  and  will  ply  my  trade." 

"  But  what  will  the  potter  do  ?  " 

"  I,"  said  Nitschmann,  "  shall  do  work  enough  to 


26  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

keep  both.  Besides,"  he  added,  "  he  will  be  able 
to  help  me  a  little." 

At  these  words  the  Chamberlain  was  overcome 
with  amazement.  Such  fine  resolution  he  had  never 
met  before. 

"  Ha  !  Ha  !  That  is  something  like,"  he  exclaimed. 
"  At  this  rate  you  will  stand  your  ground  the  wide 
world  over." 

They  began  by  standing  their  ground  at  Copen- 
hagen. For  some  days  the  prospect  looked  so  black 
that  the  Brethren  lost  their  courage  ;  their  resolution 
was  "  sicklied  o'er  with  the  pale  cast  of  thought  "  ; 
and  Dober  suggested  that  Nitschmann  should  return 
to  Herrnhut.  But  the  clouds  of  doubt  soon  lifted. 
The  carpenter  remained  firm.  At  some  point  in  the 
proceedings  a  friend  suggested  that  they  should 
enlist  in  the  Danish  Army.  They  rejected  the 
suggestion  with  contempt.  At  another  point  they 
felt  so  deserted  by  man  that  once  again  they  turned 
for  guidance  to  the  Text  Book ;  and  there  they 
read  the  cheering  message:  "Hath  He  said,  and  shall 
He  not  do  it  ?  or  hath  He  spoken,  and  shall  He 
not  make  it  good  ?  "  With  these  words  to  inspire 
them,  they  kept  the  flag  still  flying.  Steadily, 
surely,  slowly  the  tide  turned  in  their  favour.  At 
the  end  of  two  months  the  two  men  in  brown  coats 
had  changed  the  tone  of  the  whole  Court  of 
Copenhagen.  Never  in  the  history  of  Denmark 
had  such  a  moral  revolution  been  known.  They 
had  changed  the  Sadducees  into  zealots,  had  won  the 
esteem  of  all,  and  had  now,  not  only  the  Royal 
Family,  but  the  whole  Court  on  their  side.  The 
Queen  herself  expressed  her  good  wishes.  The 
Princess  Amelia  invited  them  to  Court,  and  gave 
them  a  Dutch  Bible  and  some  money.  Von  Pless 
offered  Nitschmann  ten  guineas  more  ;  Nitschmann 
refused  ;    and  Von  Pless  forced  the  guineas  into  hig 


The  Danish  West  Indies.  ^ 

pocket.  Dr.  Grothausen,  the  King's  physician, 
gave  them  a  spring  lancet,  and  showed  them  how  to 
open  a  vein.  The  Court  spoke  openly  in  their 
favour.  The  Royal  Cupbearer,  Martins,  found  them 
a  Dutch  ship  on  the  point  of  sailing  for  St.  Thomas. 
Some  humbler  friends  suppUed  them  with  carpenter's 
tools.  They  had  now  more  money  than  they  needed 
to  pay  their  passage.  At  the  last  moment  Anthony 
Ulrich  changed  his  tune  again,  and  gave  them  a 
letter  addressed  to  his  ,  brother  and  sister ;  and 
finally  a  member  of  the  Privy  Council  spurred  them 
on  with  the  words  :  "  Go  in  the  name  of  the  Lord. 
Our  Saviour  chose  fishermen  to  preach  the  Gospel, 
and  He  Himself  was  a  carpenter  and  a  carpenter's 
son."  Thus  Dober  and  Nitschmann  held  the 
fort,  and  the  Moravian  battle  of  Copenhagen 
was   won. 

And  so,  with  Royalty  beaming  upon  them,  the 
two  pioneers  set  sail  (October  8th).  The  voyage 
lasted  over  two  months.  The  weather  was  stormy, 
the  crew  were  heathen,  and  the  captain  called 
himself  an  atheist.  As  they  "crossed  the  line"! 
the  Brethren  received  the  usual  novice's  ducking. 
The  sailors  roared  with  drunken  laughter.  Amid 
their  trials  the  Brethren  kept  on  smiHng.  As  the 
language  of  daily  life  in  St.  Thomas  was  Dutch, 
it  was  to  their  advantage,  after  all,  to  sail  in  a  Dutch 
ship.  They  studied  their  Dutch  Bibles,  preached 
to  the  crew,  and  won  their  good-will  by  helping 
to  work  the  ship.  David  Nitschmann  even  touched 
the  heart  of  the  captain.  The  ship's  carpenter 
spoiled  the  captain's  wardrobe  ;  David  Nitschmann 
repaired  it ;  and  the  godless  old  salt  was  so  dehghted 
that   when   they   landed   in   St.    Thomas   he   urged 

tA  ship  does  not  usually  '  cross  the  line  "  on  the  way  from 
Denmark  to  the  West  Indiet.  But  the  ship  may  poenbly 
have  been  blown  out  of  her  coarse. 


28  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

the  planters  to  give  Nitschmann  a  job.  Some- 
times the  sailors  amused  the  Brethren  by  spinning 
yams  about  the  horrible  diseases  that  attacked  white 
men  in  the  West  Indies.  The  Brethren  were  not 
dismayed.  As  the  captain  knew  no  better  argument, 
he  repeated  the  time-honoured  insult  that  preachers 
preached  only  for  money.  Instead  of  replying, 
the  Brethren  did  good  works,  talked  to  the  cook 
about  his  soul,  and  watched  by  the  bunk 
of  an  ailing  sailor.  "  On  the  whole,"  wrote 
Nitschmann,  "  the  people  were  very  kind,  but 
we  sorrowed  for  their  blindness.  Not  one  on 
the  ship  knows  the  Lord,  and  we  long  for  Christian 
fellowship." 

At  last,  on  Saturday,  Ilecember  13th,  1732,  the 
ship  cast  anchor  in  St.  Thomas  harbour.  The 
mid-day  sun  was  blazing  ^verIiea3T"'tEe  Brethren 
stood  on  the  deck  of  the  little  ship,  and  there  before 
them  lay  the  "  First  Love  of  Moravian  Missions." 
The  scene  was  a  panorama  of  beauty.  Along  the 
winding  beach  the  sand  was  gleaming  like  crystals 
of  silver ;  the  rocks  were  as  yellow  as  gold  ;  the 
cactuses  and  fronded  palms  adorned  the  vales  ;  the 
scarlet  roofs  of  the  town  of  Tappus  flashed  in  the 
noonday  sun  ;  and  the  billowy  hills,  in  living  green, 
stood  out  limned  clear  against  the  dome  of  blue. 
To  the  Brethren,  however,  these  beauties  brought 
no  delight.  Not  once,  either  in  letter  or  diary, 
did  they  mention  the  charms  of  nature.  For  the 
first  time  since  they  left  Herrnhut  they  were  feeling 
sad  at  heart.  The  text  for  the  day  sounded  almost 
Hke  a  mockery.  "  The  Lord  of  Hosts,"  they  read, 
"  mustereth  the  host  of  the  battle."  At  present 
the  host  consisted  of  two  tired  men.  "  We  suffered," 
they  wrote,  "  all  the  pangs  of  childbirth."  Let  us 
not  condemn  them  for  their  gloomy  fears.  As  these 
Brethren   gazed   upon   the   scene   of  their   labours, 


Tke  Danish  West  Indus.  29 

they  knew  full  well  that  their  first  duty  was   to 

earn  an  honest  living.  They  had  spent  most  of  their 
money  on  the  voyage,  and,  for  anj-thing  they  knew 
to  the  contrary,  they  would  not  be  able  to  find 
emplo\Tnent.  At  three  o'clock  in  the  afternoon 
they  landed,  enquired  for  a  planter  named  Lorenzen, 
and  gave  him  a  letter  of  introduction  which  they 
had  brought  from  an  old  friend,  Henry  Daniel, 
in  Copenhagen.  On  the  following  day,  they  attended 
pubUc  service.  The  service  was  held  in  a  room  in  the 
fort ;  the  day  was  the  Third  Sunday  in  Advent, 
and  the  Brethren  noted  that  in  the  Proper  Lesson 
there  came  the  words  :  "To  the  poor  the  Gospel  is 
preached."  At  the  close  of  Di\'ine  service,  a  negro 
stepped  forward  and  said  that  Lorenzen  wished 
to  see  them.  He  welcomed  them  warmly,  offered 
them  a  half-built  house  as  a  home,  said  that  they 
might  finish  the  building,  and  promised  to  find  them 
further  employm,ent.  With  their  minds  at  ease 
they  sought  out  Abraham  and  Anna,  and  read 
them  their  brother  Anthony's  letter.  It  contained 
the  words  :  "  And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might 
know  Thee,  the  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ  Whom 
Thou  hast  sent."  From  that  text  the  Brethren 
preached  their  first  sermon  to  the  slaves.  It  is 
marvellous  how  they  made  themselves  understood. 
The  official  language  of  St.  Thomas  was  Danish  ; 
the  language  of  the  planters  in  daily  hfe  was  Dutch ; 
thg^  language  of  the  negroes  was  Creole  ;  and  the 
Brethren  stammered  in  a  jargon  of  Dutch  and 
German.  For  all  that  they  made  it  clear  that 
Chjist  had  died  for  blacks  as  well  as  whites.  The 
poor  slaves  clapped  their  haiids  for  joy.  "They  felt 
the  truth,"  said  Dober,  "rather  than  understood 
it."  The  first  seed  was  sown  ;  the  great  work  of 
Moravian  Missions  had  begUA ;  and  thus  for  the 
first  time  in  history  the  negro  slaves,. of.  the.  West 


80  A  HiSToaY  OF  Moeatian  Missions. 

Indies     heard    from    the    lips    of   simple    men : — 

"  A  Voice  from  Heaven  that  bade  the  outcast  rise 
From  shame  on  earth  to  glory  in  the  skies. "f 

The  fight  for  the  faith  began.  The  Brethren 
soon  found  themselves  in  a  moral  hell.  For  sixty 
years  St.  Thomas  had  been  the  scene,  not  only  of  a 
brutal  reign  of  terror,  but  of  scandalous  and  shame- 
ful immorality.  In  theory  the  island  was  now  a 
Danish  colony  ;  in  fact,  it  was  under  the  rule  of  the 
Danish  West  Indian  Company.  Above  the  castle 
fluttered  the  Danish  flag,  and  beneath  its  folds  the 
planters  did  that  which  was  right  in  their  own  eyes. 
At  the  head  of  affairs  was  a  Governor.  As  this  man, 
however,  was  elected  by  the  planters,  he  had  little 
more  real  authority  than  a  dummy  figure.  If  he 
pleased  them,  they  ignored  him  ;  and  if  he  displeased 
them,  they  dismissed  him.  The  island  was  divided 
into  ten  plantations  :  the  chief  products  were  indigo, 
millet,  tobacco,  sugar,  and  sweet  potatoes ;  the 
number  of  whites  was  about  three  hundred  and  the 
number  of  slaves  three  thousand  ;  and  the  chief 
concern  of  the  three  hundred  whites  was  to  keep 
the  three  thousand  slaves  in  order.  We  can  easily 
imagine  how  the  feat  was  performed.  In  creed  the 
planters  were  Christians.  Some  were  pious 
Huguenots,  banished  from  France  ;  some  belonged 
to  the  Lutheran  State  Chiu-ch ;  and  some,  probably 
the  great  majority,  were  members  of  the  Dutch 
Reformed  Church.  But  in  conduct  most  of 
the  planters  were  hypocrites.  As  long  as  they 
did  no  work  on  the  Sabbath,  they  imagined  that 
they  were  the  chosen  people  of  God ;  and  one 
Governor,  Jorgen  Iversen,  had  laid  down  the  law 
that  all  planters  must  attend  Divine  worship  on 
Sundays,  and  that  every  employer  who  allowed  his 

t James  Montgomery.     The  "  West  Indies." 


The  Danish  West  Indies.  SI 

slaves  to  work  on  the  Sabbath  must  pay  a  fine  of 
thirty  pounds  of  tobacco.  At  this  point  the 
Christianity  of  the  planters  ceased.  Let  it  not  be 
said  that  they  treated  their  slaves  as  cattle.  No 
sensible  farmer  treats  his  cows  as  badly.  At  first 
sight  the  slaves  looked  happy  enough.  They  were 
commonly  divided  into  three  classes.  Pure  Negroes 
from  the  Gold  Coast  were  called  Bussals ;  pure 
^pgrnp/t^  born  in  St.  Thomas  were  called  Xiefiles ; 
and  Negroes  with  a  drop  of  white  blood  in  their 
veins  were  generally  called  Mulattoes.  For  all 
^^ctjcal  pur^ses,  however,  the  three  classes  were 
pD_-the-^s§me  level.  They  had  much  the  same 
external  appearance,  and  they  lived  the  same  kind 
of  life.  They  had  stalwart  figures ;  they  had 
smiling  faces  ;  they  loved  a  joke  ;  and  they  laughed 
and  chattered  at  their  work.  Each  family  man 
had  his  own  httle  wooden  hut,  his  own  backyard, 
his  own  fowls,  his  own  home-fed  pig,  his  o^n  little 
plot  of  yams  and  maize.  As  their  j£ages„were.  low, 
th^y'-~«QiiM_never  put  money  in  the  bank ;  but 
as  they  had  little  chance  of  spending,  they  hardly 
ever  became  paupers.  In  the  teeming  sea  they 
found  congers,  crabs,  anchovies,  mullets  and  other 
fish  ;  ip-  .the. .forests  Jhey. gathered  oranges,  bananas 
and_sw«etsops.  They  had  not,  except  in  the  busy 
season,  to  work  as  hard  and  long  as  a  British  plough- 
man ;  they  had  a  half-holiday  on  Saturday  and  a 
whole  holiday  on  Sunday ;  and  thus,  m  many, 
^^^ays,-- they  were  better  off|  than  thousands  of 
working-men  in  England  to-day. 

Beneath  the  smiling  faces,  however,  beat  many 
an  aching  heart.  In  body  the  Negroes  were 
plump ;  in  soul  they  were  starved  to  death. 
In  the  Arctic  regions  it  is  commonly  said  that 
the  - -£»ly  way  to  keep  the  sledge-dogs  from 
snapping   is    to    thrash    them    until   the^Jave   no 


L 


82  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

morespirit  Igft.  The  planters  pursued  the  same 
poCcvin  St.  ThomasT"  lliey  "regarded  the  slaves 
as  a  pack  of  dangerous  animals.  As  long  as  the 
blacks  had  a  spark  of  fire  in  their  blood,  there  was 
always  the  danger  that  they  would  rise  in  rebellion : 
and,  therefore,  said  the  planters,  they  must  be  cowed, 
crushed,-_ajid^hammered  into  the  shape  of  ignorant 
cowards.  In  order"  SfSt'fo^ destroy  tKeir  national 
instincts,  the  planters  forbade  them  to  hold  their 
dances  to  the  beat  of  the  gumbah.  As  soon  as  the 
curfew  drum  had  sounded,  all  slaves  had  to  hie  to  their 
huts.  No  meetings  outside  the  plantations  were 
permitted.  For  the  first  offence  against  these  laws, 
thfi— CJilj^it  _was  floggedj  Jot  the  second,  his  ears 
were-xaifc^  off ;  for  the  third,  he  was  hanged  on  a 
gallo■v^[S  .and  his  head  was  spitted  on  a  pole.  If  a 
slave  tried  to  run  away,  he  was  branded  and 
hanged  ;  if  he  stole  an  orange  or  yam,  he  was 
branded  and  hanged  ;  if  he  raised  his  stick  to  smite 
a  white  man,  he  was  branded  and  hanged.  For 
smaller  crimes  there  were  smaller  punishments,  the 
loss  of  an  ear  or  leg,  a  brand  in  the  forehead,  or  a 
few  hundred  lashes.  The  planters  were  expert 
floggers.  The  whip  used  was  called  the  "tschikefell" 
(cow-hide).  It  was  made  of  hard  twisted  cow-hide 
leather,  and  was  studded  with  iron  points.  The 
criminal  was  either  lashed  to  a  post  or  stretched  face 
downwards  on  the  ground ;  the  flogger  took  his 
stand  at  striking  distance  ;  and  then,  with  the  aid 
of  the  iron  points,  he  flicked  chips  of  flesh  out  of  the 
quivering,  writhing  body.  At  each  stroke  the 
victim,  obedient  to  instructions,  sang  out  "  Thank 
you,  Massa";  and  when  the  operation  was  over, 
his  gashes  were  rubbed  in  salt  water.  Secondly,  the 
pl&iiters_Jixade_,inxQads_jon  family  Jife.  Sometimes 
they  sold  the  husband  without  the  wife,  sometimes 
the  wife  without  the  husband.     No  negro  could  be 


The  Danish  West  Indies,  3S 

legally  married  ;  no  private  contract  was  binding ; 
and  the  only  system  allowed  by  law  was  a  system  of 
free  love  which  led  to  the  most  appalling  immorality. 
For  that  immorality  the  negroes  were  Uttle  to  blame. 
It  was  pracTicalh'forced  upon  them  by  the  planters. 
As  the  planters  were  not  very  moral  themselves, 
they  quite  approved  of  the  practice  ;  and  although 
they  spoke  of  the  blacks  as  beasts,  they  often  treated 
the  women  as  concubines. 

Above  all,_^e  planters  had  done  thdr  best  to  rob 
the  negroes  o^  rehfirionT  They  told  them  that  thrist 
had  died  for  white  men  only,  and  that  all  blacks^ 
wgyp  fTPAted  by  the  devil.  They  forbade  them  to 
hold  religious  serN-ices,  or  even  to  keep  a  fetish  ; 
ATu^  thfi  only  ^'^^^gi'-^ZLlJl^Jl'^C^j^/'^  ^°^'  possessed  was 
a_vagu£ja£lief . ijD_a_distant  _Gpd  and  a  terror  of  eviF 
sgmts  Jiaunting  every  stone  and  tree.  "  Oh  !  God," 
ran  the  negroes'  morning  prayer,  "  I  know  Thee 
not,  but  Thou  knowest  me  !  I  need  Thy  help  ! 
Oh  !  God,  help  us  I  We  know  not  whether 
we  shall  live  till  to-morrow  !  We  are  in  Thy 
hand." 

The  work  of  the  Brethren  began  in  a  modest  way. 
At  first  they  had  a  fairly  pleasant  time.  As  long 
as  Nitschmann  remained  on  the  scene,  they  found 
it  easy  to  make  ends  meet.  A  planter,  Carstens, 
gave  them  regular  work,  and  before  long  they 
were  able  to  build  a  house  on  his  estate.  As  pubhc 
meetings  were  not  allowed,  they  could  only  deal 
with  the  negroes  one  by  one.  Instead,  therefore, 
of  addressing  crowds,  they  earned  their  living  by 
day  as  carpenters,  and  visited  the  huts  of  the  negroes 
after  sunset.  With  the  slaves  their  first  experiences 
were  disappointing.  The  poor  wretches  gave  tlie_ 
Gospel  a  minted  reception.  By  observing  the  conduct 
of  the  planters,  who  often  went  to  Church  on 
Sunday   and   committed   adultery   on  Monday,   the 


84  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

negroes  concluded  that  religion  had  nothing  to  do 
with  morals  ;  and,  therefore,  while  they  welcomed 
the  hope  of  Heaven,  they  rejected  the  Sermon  on  the 
Mount  with  disgust.  David  Nitschmann  gives  us 
a  striking  example.  In  his  diary  he  says  that  on 
his  way  to  St.  Thomas  he  had  a  wonderful  dream. 
He  dreamt  that  he  and  Dober  had  landed,  that  they 
met  a  blacksmith  named  Alexander,  and  that 
Alexander  welcomed  them  and  rejoiced  to  hear  the 
Gospel.  The  dream  came  true.  Alexander  was  a 
promising  pupil.  He  visited  the  Brethren  nearly 
every  night ;  he  confessed  the  sad  state  of  his  heart ; 
he  asked  to  be  taught  to  sing  and  pray  ;  and  he 
probed  the  Brethren  with  interesting  questions  about 
the  Christian  Creed.  Amid  the  lessons  the  Brethren 
discovered  that  Alexander  was  both  a  drunkard  and 
an  adulterer.  They  told  him  that  unless  he  mended 
his  ways  he  could  never  pass  through  the  Gates  into 
the  City.  At  first,  Alexander  was  astonished ; 
then  he  looked  puzzled ;  then  he  grew  careless ; 
and  then  he  went  away  in  a  rage. 

But  Dober's  hardest  trials  were  still  to  come.  At 
the  time  when  he  and  Nitschmann  set  out  from 
Herrnhut,  it  was  distinctly  understood  among  the 
Brethren  that  Nitschmann  was  going,  not  to  preach, 
but  simply  to  spy  out  the  land,  and  bring  back 
a  report  to  Herrnhut.  He  was  already  a  middle- 
aged  man ;  he  had  left  a  wife  and  children  behind  ; 
and  now  (April  17th,  1733),  having  done  his 
appointed  duty,  he  set  sail  for  Herrnhut. 

For  fifteen  months  Dober  toiled  alone  in  St. 
Thomas.  He  nearly  died  of  starvation.  For  a 
carpenter  there  had  been  work  in  abundance ; 
for  a  potter  there  was  scarcely  any.  He  found 
himself  in  the  ranks  of  the  unemployed  ;  his  pig- 
mill  broke  ;  the  earth  was  not  suitable  for  making 
clay ;     and    the   planters,    chuckling   over    his    mis- 


The  Danish  West  Indies.  35 

fortune,   said,    "  Perhaps   a   glazier   will   be   coming 
next."! 

He  appealed  to  the  negroes  and  offered  to  work 
for  them.  "  No,"  they  replied,  "  that  is  against 
the  law."  He  tried  to  earn  a  little  money  by 
fishing.  The  fish — so  he  reported — refused  to 
bite.  At  this  crisis,  Gardehn,  the  Governor, 
came  to  his  aid.  He  was  a  pious  man,  with  a 
glimmering  sense  of  duty.  He  often  prayed  hours 
together  in  his  chamber,  prepared  devoutly  for  the 
Sacrament,  and  held  family  worship  with  his  slaves  ; 
and  now,  thinking  highly  of  Dober's  character,  he 
offered  him  the  post  of  house-steward. 

"  I  offer  you  this  situation,"  he  said,  "  simply 
in  recognition  of  your  godly  character.  Let  me  warn 
you  to  keep  true  to  your  God,  to  walk  faithfully  in 
His  sight,  and  especially  to  avoid  the  sins  so 
prevalent  in  this  island." 

With  meekness  Dober  promised  obedience,  and 
with  joy  he  entered  on  his  duties.  The  only 
condition  he  laid  down  was  that  he  should  have 
certain  fixed  hours  for  visiting  the  slaves.  For 
the  first  and  only  time  in  his  life  he  lived  in  comfort. 
He  had  a  new  suit  of  clothes ;  he  sat  at  the 
Governor's  table  ;  he  was  waited  on  by  a  butler  ; 
his  duties  were  light  and  his  pay  was  good  ;  and 
as  long  as  he  kept  the  house  in  order  he  was  allowed 
to  visit  the  slaves  as  much  as  he  pleased. 

But  this  change  did  the  holy  cause  more  harm  than 
good.  As  long  as  Dober  lived  in  the  Governor's 
house,  the  slaves  regarded  him  with  suspicion.  He 
felt  uneasy  himself.  He  had  been  brought  up  as  a 
working-man,  and  was  not  at  home  in  genteel  society ; 
he  was  bored  by  the  task  of  learning  "to  be  high  "  ; 

tThe  point  of  the  joke  was  that  glass  windows  were  not  then 
used  in  St.  Thomas,  A  glazier,  therefore,  would  find  nothing 
to  do. 


■ 


36  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

he  had  not  as  much  time  for  visiting  as  he  wished  ; 
and  the  whole  situation  was  against  his  previous 
conceptions.  "  I  felt  ashamed,"  he  says,  "  that  I 
had  not  been  able  to  carry  out  my  original  design 
of  becoming  a  slave."  He  hated  the  style  of  life  ; 
he  felt  like  a  bird  in  a  cage  ;  and  he  said  that  he 
would  never  have  taken  the  post  unless  God  had 
shown  him  the  way.  He  was  able  soon,  however, 
to  burst  his  bars. 

For  some  years  the  slaves  in  the  neighbouring 
island  of  St.  John  had  behaved  so  quietly  that  the 
planters  had  neglected  their  usual  precautions. 
In  the  fort  in  Coral  Bay  there  was  only  a  garrison 
of  ten.  The  negroes  seized  their  chance.  They 
formed  a  plot  to  murder  all  the  whites,  stormed 
the  garrison,  hacked  the  ten  soldiers  to  pieces, 
razed  houses  all  over  the  island,  fired  the  plantations, 
murdered  whites,  and  marched  in  triumphal  pro- 
cession with  a  planter's  head  on  a  pole.  For  six 
months  they  revelled  in  blood  and  fire.  At  length 
a  French  ship  arrived  from  Martinique.  The  negroes 
were  at  bay.  They  held  a  meeting,  and  discussed 
what  they  should  do.  They  had  two  courses  before 
them.  To  live  was  to  fall  once  more  into  the  hands 
of  planters  ;  to  die  was  to  fall  into  the  hands  of 
demons.  The  negroes  preferred  the  demons.  With 
one  consent  three  hundred  rebels  committed 
suicide.  It  is  not  quite  certain  how  they  per- 
formed the  feat.  According  to  one  tradition,  they 
shot  themselves  ;  according  to  another,  they  jumped 
down  a  precipice,  and  the  scene  is  still  pointed 
out  to  visitors.  In  either  case  the  moral  was  the 
same.  Never  before  had  Dober  realised  how 
bitterly  the  slaves  hated  their  masters.  The  news 
of  the  suicide  angered  the  slaves  in  St.  Thomas, 
and  Dober  saw  that  for  their  sakes  he  must  take  a 
definite  stand.     Amid  the  excitement  his  own  health 


The  Danish  West  Indies.  87 

broke  down.  His  converts  watched  by  his  bedside, 
and  Dober  was  so  touched  by  their  devotion  that  he 
resolved  henceforth  to  Hve  in  their  midst.  He 
handed  in  his  resignation  to  tlie  Governor.  The  good 
man  was  staggered.  "  I  don't  understand  you,"  he 
said,  "there  must  be  something  else  on  your  mind." 
But  Dober  held  to  his  point.  For  the  sake  of  the 
slaves  he  incurred  the  Governor's  displeasure,  returned 
to  Tappus,  and  earned  his  living,  first  as  a  night- 
watchman,  and  then  as  a  plantation  overseer.  He 
had  now,  in  the  eyes  of  polite  society,  disgraced  him- 
self. Of  the  so-called  Christian  prosperous  planters, 
only  three — Lorenzen,  Carstens,  and  his  employer, 
Beverhout — had  a  spark  of  sympathy  with  his 
efforts.  His  situation  was  pitiful.  In  order  to  please 
the  slaves  once  more,  he  had  to  resign  the  post 
of  overseer.  But  the  slaves  did  not  respond  by 
obeying  his  precepts.  He  had  made  a  little  im- 
pression on  Abraham  and  Anna  ;  he  had  two  more 
converts,  Gerard  and  Henry,  and  the  rest  continued 
their  wicked  life  as  before. 

At  length,  on  June  11th,  1734,  he  heard  to  his  joy 
that  a  vessel  had  arrived  from  Copenhagen.  As  soon 
as  he  had  finished  his  daily  work  he  sent  a  messenger 
dowTi  to  the  harbour  to  ask  if  any  letters  had  arrived 
from  Hermhut.  The  messenger  loitered.  The  dark- 
ness fell ;  the  slaves  had  gone  to  their  huts  ;  and 
Dober,  who  had  set  out  to  meet  the  man,  sat  down 
on  the  lonely  roadside  beside  a  watch-fire.  Never 
before  had  he  felt  so  sad  at  heart.  For  fifteen  months 
he  had  heard  no  word  from  home.  The  frogs  were 
croaking  along  the  silver  beach  ;  around  him,  through 
the  flickering  firelight,  shimmered  the  purple  haze  ; 
and  Dober  pondered,  lone  and  lorn,  on  the  grand 
old  days  at  Hermhut.  From  the  quay  the  murmur 
of  voices  broke  on  his  ear.  With  a  thrill  of  mingled 
hope  and  fear,  he  waited.     The  sound  drew  nearer. 


88  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

What  tones  were  these  that  broke  the  evening 
calm  ?  Instead  of  the  lilting  song  of  a  slave,  he 
heard  the  homely  burr  of  the  fatherland,  and  instead 
of  the  returning  messenger,  he  saw  his  old  friend, 
Tobias  Leupold.  Once  more  the  two  friends  had 
met  at  eventide.  With  joy  they  rushed  into  each 
other's  arms,  and  hour  after  hour  they  sat  that 
night  in  eager  conversation.  Strange  news  had 
Leupold  brought.  He  had  come,  he  said,  with  a 
gallant  band  to  begin  new  work  in  St.  Croix.  The 
missionary  career  of  Dober  was  over.  At  Herrnhut 
he  had  been  elected  by  Lot  to  the  post  of  Chief 
Elder  ;  he  would  now  be  the  general  manager  of  the 
foreign  work  ;  and,  therefore,  by  the  command  of 
God,  he  must  leave  St.  Thomas  for  Herrnhut.  With 
a  breaking  heart,  he  parted  once  more  from  Leupold. 
Thus,  having  sown  the  first  Gospel  seed  in  St. 
Thomas,  did  Leonard  Dober  make  way  for  a  greater 
man. 

2.     Frederick  Martin,  1736 — 1750. 

The  next  man  was  the  real  founder  of  the  work 
in  the  Danish  West  Indies.  As  the  silvery  mist 
stole  gently  down  on  the  Roman  Catholic  village  of 
Ponmierschwitz,  in  Upper  Silesia,  a  young  man, 
named  Frederick  Martin,  who  had  been  imprisoned 
for  his  faith,  broke  through  his  guards  and  fled  to 
Herrnhut.  A  few  weeks  later  he  was  appointed  to 
succeed  Leonard  Dober  in  St.  Thomas ;  and  so 
successful  were  his  efforts  that  Zinzendorf  called 
him  "  The  Apostle  to  the  Negroes."  During  his 
fourteen  years'  activity  he  pursued  five  methods, 
(a)  His  first  task  was,  not  to  preach  the  Gospel, 
but  to  earn  his  own  living.  The  situation  in  the 
West  Indies  was  remarkable.  For  over  one  hundred 
^  ;\  years  no  missionary  in  the  West  Indies  received 
\^  J  from  the  Moravian  Church  one  penny  of  salary  for 


The  Danish  West  Indies.  89 

his    services ;    ^ach    man,    during    all    that    period, 
had  first  to  .e_arn  his  own  living  ;    and  Martin  solved 
the  problem  in  a  manner  which  many  of  his  successors 
had  to  follow.     As  soon  as  a  convenient  opportunity- 
arose,  Martin,  without  waiting  for  instructions  from 
Herrnhut,  and  using  money  advanced  for  the  purpose 
by   the   friendly   planter   Carstens,    bought   a   small 
plantafeioR— about .  four  miles  from  Tappus.     In  due 
tinie. -the— Herj-nhut     authorities    sent    the    money, 
and__t]iu&-±h£  Moravian  Church  became  the  owner, 
not^onl^of  a  plot  of  land,  but  also  of  the  slaves  who 
^'orked  upon  it.     For  that  conduct  the  Church  was 
not  in  the  least  to  be  blamed.     In  those  days  no  other 
course  was  possible.    According  to  the  law  of  the  land, 
the  slaves  on  any   estate   were   simply   an   integral 
part  of  the  property  ;    and  no   one  could  possibly 
buy  the  land  unless  at  the  same  time  he  also  bought 
the  slaves.     For  four  reasons  Martin  held  that  he  had 
set  a  good  precedent :    (1)  He  had  land  on  which 
he  could  build  a  Church.     On  this  estate,  in  fact, 
the  first  Church  for  public  worship  was  built.     At 
first  the  estate  w^as  called  "  The  Brethren's  Planta- 
tion "  ;     then    Martin    named    it    "  The    Brethren's 
Toot-oo,"  because,  like  the  toot-oo  shell  blown  by 
the   planters,    it   summoned   the   negroes   to   work ; 
then  Zinzendorf  named  it  Posaunenberg  (Trombone 
Hill)  ;t    and    finally    it    received    its    present    name, 
"  New  Herrnhut."     (2)  He  had  not  to  toil  all  day  in 
the  sweat  of  his  brow,  and  could  devote  his  main 
energies   to  spiritual  work.     (3)   His   converts   were 
close  at  hand,  and  that  fact   made    pastoral   over- 
sight   much    easier.        (4)     By    his    own    personaL. 
conduct   he   could   shew   the  other   planters   that  a 
slave  owner  need  not  be  a  brute.     In  reply,  however, 
to  these  arguments,  it  may  be  asked  why,  after  buying 
the  estate,  Martin  did  not  set  the  slaves  at  liberty. 

flaaiah  xvm.,  3. — "And  when  He  bloweth  a  trumpet,  hear  ye." 


40  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

In  reply  to  that  question  three  answers  may  be  given  : 
(1)  On  the  slavery  question  Martin  was  a  child  of 
his  age.  There  is  no  proof,  so  far  as  I  know,  that 
he  regarded  slavery  itself  as  wicked.  (2)  Had  Martin 
released  all  his  converts,  the  Danish  Government 
would  probably  have  expelled  him.  For  the  time 
being,  at  least,  he  had  to  take  the  law  as  he  found  it. 
(3)  At  Copenhagen  the  Princess  Sophia  asked  David 
Nitschmann  a  natural  question  : 

"  Would  not  the  slaves  be  more  easily  converted," 
she  said,  "  if  all  who  confessed  Christ  were  at  once 
set  at  liberty  ?  " 

"  No,"  replied  Nitschmann,  "  that  would  be  the 
way  to  make  hypocrites."  And  with  that  opinion 
Martin  seems  to  have  agreed. 

(b)  His_secon^  jneUiod  was  systematic  discipline. 
In  order  to  teach  his  converts  the  real  ethical  meaning 
of  the  Christian  religion,  he  not  only  formed  them 
into  "  Bands "  for  Bible  study  and  prayer,  but 
even  taught  them  to  pay  into  a  poor-box  and  buy 
their  own  candles  for  the  evening  meetings.  Thus 
they  learned  both  to  help  each  other  and  to  support 
the  Church.  Some  of  his  converts,  of  course,  came 
from  other  estates,  and  these  were  always  in- 
structed to  be  diligent,  honest,  and  obedient. 

(c)  Hjs  third  method  was  education.  At  his  own 
home"  he  even  kept  a  small  boarding-seiiool ;  there, 
for  the  first  time,  negro  children  were  taught"  to 
rcad_  and  write  ;  and  Martin's  example,  as  far  as 
possible,  was  followed  by  most  of  his  successors. 

(d)  His  fourth  method  was  the  personal  intervfew. 
For  some  months  Martin  devoted  all  his  spare  time 
to  the  task  of  making  the  personal  acquaintance  of 
every  negro  on  the  island.  With  a  friendly  smile 
upon  his  face  he  shook  hands  with  them  all.  By 
this  means  he  gained  their  confidence  ;  the  negroes 
felt  that  he  was  interested  in  their  welfare  ;    and 


The  Danish  West  Indies.  41 

the  consequence  was  that,  though  he  could  hardly 
be  called  an  eloquent  speaker,  the  negroes  attended 
his  evening  ser^dces  in  crowds. 

(e)  His  last  method  was  ecclesiastical  organization. 
As  soon  as  he  received  official  authority,  i.e.,  as 
soon  as  he  was  ordained,  Martin  began,  not  only  to  1737 
baptize  his  converts,  but  also  to  conduct  the  Holy 
Communion,  celebrate  marriages  at  Church,  and 
appoint  "  helpers  "  and  other  church  officials  ;  and 
thereby  he  formed  the  nucleus  of  a  free  independent 
Church  in  St.  Thomas. 

Meanwhile,  however,  his  enemies  rallied  their 
forces.  As  soon  as  Martin^Hoegan  to  baptize  hrs~~ 
converts,  the  planters  realised  that,  from  their 
point  of  view,  he  was  a  dangerous  character  ;  and 
led  bv  a  certain  Pastor  Borm,  of  the  Dutch  Reformed 
Church,  they  now  made  a  systematic  attempt  to 
destroy  the  mission.  For  about  two  years,  there-  1737^9 
fore,  Martin  was  subjected  to  various  forms  of  attack. 
The  first  blow  in  public  was  struck  by  Pastor  Borm. 
With  the  full  approval  of  the  Dutch  Reformed 
Council,  John  Borm  handed  in  to  the  Governor  a 
document  accusing  Martin  of  two  serious  offences. 
His  first  offence  was  of  a  singular  nature.  According 
to  Borm,  Martin's  ordination  had  not  yet  been 
confirmed  by  the  King  of  Denmark.  Martin,  there- 
fore, he  said,  was  still  a  layman.  He  had  no  right 
to  baptize  at  all ;  his  Holy  Communion  was  a  farce  ; 
and  those  couples  whom  he  had  married  were  living 
in  adultery.  Still  worse,  contended  Borm,  Martin 
was  grossly  ignorant  of  theology,  and  was  ^ite 
unfit_to_give  religioiis, instruction.  For  the  sake 
of  peace  the  Governor  suggested  that  Martin  should 
cease  baptizing  until  the  required  confirmation  from 
Denmark  arrived;  and  then,  when  Martin  flatly 
refused,  the  Governor  evaded  the  question  by  paying 
a   visit   to   St.    Croix.        The   next   blow   exhibited 


42  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

strategic  skill.  At  this  early  period  in  the  history 
of  the  renewed  Moravian  Church,  many  Moravians, 
like  the  Quakers,  conscientiously  objected  to  taking 
an  oath ;  of  those  Moravians  Frederick  Martin 
was  one,  and  now  he  and  his  colleague,  Freundlich, 
were  summoned  to  give  evidence  in  a  case  of  theft. 
The  result  can  be  imagined.  For  their  refusal  to 
give  evidence,  Martin  and  Freundlich  were  first 
fined  £4  10s.  ;  then,  as  they  refused  to  pay,  this 
sum  was  increased  to  £20 ;  and  finally,  Martin, 
Freundlich  and  Freundlich's  wife  were  all  three 
imprisoned  in  the  castle.  The  next  blow  was  still 
more  deadly.  As  soon  as  Martin  was  safely  in  jail, 
the  Governor,  the  Sheriff,  John  Borm,  and  the  rest 
of  the  Dutch  Reformed  Council,  formed  themselves 
into  an  examining  board  ;  and  now  Martin  and  seven 
of  his  converts  were  summoned  before  this  Board 
as  heretics.  The  whole  future  of  the  mission  was 
now  at  stake.  In  order  to  confuse  the  minds  of  the 
negroes,  and  compel  them  to  give  absurd  answers, 
John  Borm,  the  official  examiner,  submitted  a  series 
of  conundrums.  "  Is  God,"  he  demanded,  "  a 
man  ?  Does  he  live  in  Guinea  ?  Has  Martin  ever 
baptized  in  his  own  name  ?  Has  he  ever  mixed 
blood  with  water  ?  Has  he  ever  told  you  that  his 
teaching  is  superior  to  the  Lutheran  or  Reformed  ? 
Has  he  told  you  that  after  death  the  blacks  will 
rule  over  the  whites  ?  Has  hgjever  made  you  jgay 
hiin_ot.w;ork  for  him  in  returnfor  his  instructions  ? 
Has  he  everHS^^fiytliing  in  the  Communioh'besides 
bread  and  wine  ?  " 

And  now  the  cruel  planters  adopted  still  more 
diabolical  tactics.  At  one  time  they  informed  the  con- 
verts that  Martin  was  an  evil  spirit,  able  to  fly  across 
the  sea  by  night  and  back  again  in  the  early  morning  ; 
and  frequently  they  also  warned  them  that  all  black 
converts  would  blaze  in  hell  like  touchwood.     Some- 


The  Danish  West  Indies.  48 

times  thev  burned  the  negroes'  school-hoolcs^jand 
buffetedj;h£m.irLtliaface.with  the  blazing  papers  ;  and 
sometimes  they  even  poured  boiling  sealing-wax  over 
the  bodies  of  his  female  converts.  In  spite,  however, 
of  these  intimidations,  most  of  the  converts  still 
remained  loyal.  Each  evening  they  visited  the  castle 
and  heard  Martin  preach  through  the  bars  of  his  cell ; 
his  assistant,  Mingo,  maintained  the  Sunday  services  ; 
and  at  night  the  negroes  sang  so  lustily  that  the 
planters  could  not  sleep. 

The  deliverance  was  sudden  and  s^N^ft.  At  the  1739 
very  time  when  Pastor  Borm  was  endeavouring  to 
destroy  the  mission,  certain  critics  in  Saxony  were 
remarking  that,  while  Zinzendorf  sent  out  others 
to  die  in  foreign  climes,  he  had  not  the  courage 
to  risk  his  own  life ;  and  partly  because  he  wished  to 
repel  this  charge,  and  partly  because  he  was  anxious 
about  Martin,  he  now  set  sail  for  St.  Thomas.  His 
companions  were  Valentine  Lohans,  Mrs.  Lohans, 
and  George  Weber.  As  the  ship  sailed  into  St. 
Thomas  harbour  (January  29th,  1739),  the  Count, 
catching  sight  of  the  castle,  was  smitten  by  a  sudden 
misgiving. 

"  What  if  I  should  find  no  one  there  ?  "  he  asked. 
"  What  if  the  missionaries  are  all  dead  ?  " 

"  Then  we   are   there,"  replied  George  Weber, 

"  Gens  aeterna,  these  Moravians,"!  exclaimed 
the  Count. 

His  arrival  in  St.  Thomas  caused  a  sensation. 
"  I  burst  into  the  castle,"  he  ^\Tote  to  his  wife, 
"  like  thunder."  At  his  request,  the  prisoners 
were  released,  and  the  Governor  promised,  not  only 
that   Martin  might   practise   all   ecclesiastical   rites. 


tThis  famous  remark  must  not  be  misunderstood.  The  Count 
was  thinking,  not  of  members  of  the  Moravian  Church  in 
general,  but  of  those  who  had  emigrated  from  Moravia, 
such  as  Matthew  Stach,  George  Schmidt,"  "aETd — Dirul 
Nitschmann. -  . 


44  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

but  that  he  should  be  persecuted  no  more.  For 
three  weeks  the  Count  was  busy  as  an  organizer. 
He  began  by  dividing  the  island  into  four  districts. 
At  New  Herrnhut  he  stationed  Martin  as  Superin- 
tendent ;  at  the  Perl  he  stationed  Weber ;  at 
Muskito  Bay,  Valentine  Lohans  ;  and  at  Tappus,  a 
native  helper.  The  chief  converts,  also,  were  given 
positions  of  trust.  He  appointed  Peter  Chief  Elder 
of  the  Brethren,  and  Magdalene  Chief  Elder  of  the 
Sisters,  and  others  were  appointed  as  helpers,  advisers 
and  distributors  of  alms.  The  system  of  "  Hourly 
Prayer  "  was  introduced  ;  each  plantation  on  the 
estate  was  to  have  its  spiritual  overseer ;  and  the 
converts  were  to  form  themselves  into  "  Bands." 
On  Sunday,  February  15th,  he  addressed  the  converts 
at  a  mass  meeting,  and  laid  before  them  his  ideals 
of  Christian  conduct.  "  I  have,"  he  said,  "  five 
points  to  impress  upon  you.  First,  think  constantly 
about  Jesus  Christ ;  let  Him  be  as  present  to  your 
minds  as  though  you  saw  Him  on  the  Cross.  Second, 
deal  honestly  with  Martin  and  his  colleagues,  and 
never  pretend  to  be  holier  than  you  are.  Third, 
if  you  are  expelled  for  misconduct,  ask  for  grace  to 
repent.  Fourth,  be  true  to  your  husbands  and  wives, 
and  obedient  to  your  masters  and  bombas.  The 
Lord  has  made  all  ranks — kings,  masters,  servants 
and  slaves.  God  punished  the  first  negroes  by 
making  them  slaves,f  and  your  conversion  will 
make  you  free,  not  from  the  control  of  your  masters. 


fGenesis  IX.,  20 — 25. — From  this  speech  it  is  quite  clear  that 
Zinzendorf  had  no  sympathy  vith  slave  emancipation.  In 
common  with  other  theologians,  he  held  that  the  negroes  were 
descended  from  the  Canaanitcs.  The  whole  argument, 
roughly  speaking,  ran  as  follows : — Ham  insulted  his  father, 
Noah.  For  this  sin.  Ham's  descendants,  the  Canaanites, 
were  condemned  to  slavery.  The  Negroes  were  descended 
from  the  Canaanites.  Therefore,  slavery  is  a  Divine 
institution.  Zinzendorf  even  thought  it  wropg  to  teach 
negroHslavea  to  read  and  write. 


IThe  Danish  West  Indies.  45 

but  simply  from  your  wdcked  habits  and  thoughts, 
and  all  that  makes  you  dissatisfied  ^\-ith  your  lot. 
Fifthly,  think  kindly  of  all  the  negroes  who  have  not 
yet  heard  the  Gospel." 

The  last  round  in  the  combat  now  began.  As 
soon  as  Zinzendorf  was  safely  out  of  the  way,  the 
planters  made  one  more  attempt  to  ^\Teck  the 
mission.  Pastor  Borm,  in  a  letter  to  a  friend  at 
Amsterdam,  declared  that  the  negroes  taught  by 
Martin  still  knew  nothing  of  God ;  one  planter, 
in  another  letter,  asserted  that  they  worshipped 
Zinzendorf ;  and  only  a  week  after  Zinzendorf  had 
left  St.  Thomas,  six  ruffians,  armed  with  daggers 
and  pistols,  attacked  the  house  where  Martin  and 
his  colleagues  were  conducting  an  evening  service, 
burst  open  the  door,  and  threatened  to  make  a 
speedy  end  of  the  negroes.  The  leader  of  the  gang 
was  drunk,  and  foamed  at  the  mouth.  For  a  few 
moments  there  was  a  serious  danger  that 
both  the  missionaries  and  the  negroes  would 
be  murdered.  "  Hew  them,"  roared  the  frenzied 
leader,  "  shoot  them,  stab  them,  strike  them 
d«ad." 

The  scene  in  the  room  became  one  of  wild  confusion. 
With  perfect  coolness,  Martin,  Weber  and  Mrs. 
Weber  faced  the  six  raging  invaders  ;  the  negroes 
escaped  through  a  back  window ;  and  now  the 
leader  informed  Martin  that  if  he  did  not  bring 
back  the  negroes  he  would  stab  him  to  the  heart. 
Martin  stood  firm ;  the  gang  felt  baffled  ;  and, 
cursing  loudly,  the  whole  six  departed.  The  final 
issue,  however,  was  decided,  not  in  St.  Thomas,  but 
in  Denmark.  On  his  return  journey  to  Herrnhut, 
Zinzendorf  called  at  Copenhagen.  There  he  inter- 
viewed the  King,  and  the  King,  in  response  to  his 
request,  confirmed  Martin's  ordination,  instructed  Mar.  13th 
Pastor  Borm  to  leave  the  Brethren  in  peace,  issued        1739 


46  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

an  edict  granting  the  Brethren  full  religious  liberty, 
and  declared  that  all  who  molested  them  again  would 
be  severely  punished. 

3.  The  Extending  Cause,  1740-82. 

As  the  triumphant  Count  re-crossed  the  Atlantic, 
bright  dreams  of  coming  glory  cheered  his  soul ;  and 
soon  after  his  arrival  at  Herrnhut,  he  sent  out  two 
men,  Albin  Feder,  a  learned  theologian,  and  Gottlieb 
1740  Israel,  a  lame  tailor,  to  assist  Frederick  Martin  in 
St.  Thomas.  On  the  voyage  out  the  two  men  had 
an  amazing  adventure.  First,  they  sailed  in  a 
Danish  ship  to  St.  Eustace  ;  there,  the  vessel  having 
reached  her  destination,  they  changed  into  an 
English  barque  bound  by  way  of  St.  Thomas  for 
Jamaica ;  and  then  (January  17th,  1740),  near 
the  rocky  islet  of  Skrop,  so  fierce  a  gale  arose 
that  the  captain  thought  it  best  to  cast  anchor 
and  trust  to  the  strength  of  his  cables  to  weather 
the  storm.  His  policy,  however,  proved  a  mis- 
take. Owing  to  a  sudden  change  in  the  wind, 
the  stern  of  the  ship  was  broken  to  pieces  against  a 
rock.  The  captain  cocked  his  pistol ;  the  long- 
boat was  manned ;  the  captain  and  his  men  pulled  for 
the  shore,  and  Feder,  Israel,  and  a  few  negro  hands 
were  left  on  the  sinking  ship.  For  missionaries  and 
for  negroes  alike  there  was  now  only  one  chance  of 
safety.  In  his  narrative,  Israel  says  that  he 
himself,  Feder  and  three  negroes  managed  some- 
how to  drop  from  the  bowsprit  on  to  a  half-sunken 
reef  extending  to  the  shore.  For  some  minutes 
all  five  clung  to  their  perilous  perch  ;  then  Feder, 
who  tried  to  advance,  was  swept  off  his  feet  and 
drowned ;  and,  while  the  raffle  smote  him  on 
the  face,  and  the  lightning  flashed,  Israel  called 
out  to  his  colleague:  "Go  hence  in  peace, 
beloved  brother,"   and   sang,  with  a  cheerful  voice, 


I 


The  Danish  West  Indies.  47 

Count     Zinzendorf's     famous     "  Single    Brethren's 
Song  "  :— 

Where  are  ye,  ye  sons  of  the  spirit  of  grace, 

Who  the  Cross  of  your  Lord  love  to  share  ? 
Your  path  in  the  future  what  vision  can  trace, 

At  home  or  in  regions  afar  ? 
Ye  breakers  of  walls,  why  shrink  from  the  view  ? 
The  rocks,  the  wild  forest-brakes  and  the  caves, 
The  isles  of  the  heathen,  the  high-rolling  waves, 
These,  these  are  the  places  for  you. 

For  several  hours  Israel  still  clung  to  the  rock  ;  then 
the  captain  flung  a  rope  from  the  shore,  and  finally, 
a  few  weeks  later  (February  18th),  Israel,  half  naked 
and  half  dead,  appeared  at  Trombone  Hill  in  St. 
Thomas.  Let  us  see  why  his  arrival  was  important. 
For  the  explanation  we  must  return  to  Herrnhut. 
As  Zinzendorf  ^\as  burning  some  waste  paper,  he  1734 
noticed  one  sheet  flutter  unburnt  to  the  ground. 
Picking  it  up,  he  read  the  words  : — 

"  O  !    Let  us  in  Thy  nail-prints  see 
Our  pardon  and  election  free," 

and  taking  these  words  as  a  special  message  from 
God,  he  founded  his  so-called  "  Blood  and  Wounds 
Theology."  During  the  next  thirty  or  forty  years 
that  theology  played  a  prominent  part  in  Moravian 
Missions.  The  first  man  to  preach  it  abroad  was 
Gottlieb  Israel ;  and  the  first  result  of  his  preaching 
was  that,  just  as  John  Weslej-,  by  preaching  judgment 
and  the  need  of  conversion,  led  the  EvangeUcal 
Revival  in  England,  so  Israel,  by  preaching  the 
Suffering  Christ,  led  the  EvangeUcal  Revival  in  St. 
Thomas.  Between  St.  Thomas  and  England,  how- 
ever, there  was  one  important  difference.  In  St. 
Thomas  far  more  attention  was  paid  to  the  individual. 
On  Sunday  mornings  all  the  converts  had  their  Bible 
lesson ;     on   Wednesday  they  had  Band   Meetings  ; 


48  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

once  a  month  they  came  to  Holy  Communion  ;  and 
nearly  every  evening  there  were  special  meetings, 
lasting  about  fifteen  minutes,  for  the  hourly  inter- 
cessors, for  the  children,  and  for  others  needing 
special  instruction. 

Meanwhile,  strange  things  had  happened  in  St. 
1734  Croix.  At  the  special  request  of  Von  Pless,  who 
owned  six  plantations  on  the  island,  Zinzendorf 
sent  over  eighteen  Brethren.  The  idea  was  that, 
by  working  the  estates,  the  Brethren  might  win 
money  for  the  holy  cause  ;  and,  fired  by  this  noble 
ideal,  they  dug  ditches,  cleared  the  tangle,  burnt 
the  tall  grass,  and  planted  lettuces,  parsley,  cabbages, 
maize,  yams,  and  cassava.  The  result  was  tragic. 
St.  Croix,  in  those  days,  swarmed  with  mosquitoes, 
and  fever  was  in  the  air.  First,  out  of  the  eighteen, 
ten,  including  Tobias  Leupold,  died  ;  then  (1735) 
eleven  more  Brethren  arrived,  and  seven  more  died 
of  fever  ;  then  nine,  reduced  by  illness,  had  to  return 
to  Herrnhut ;  and  thus,  out  of  twenty-nine  Brethren, 
only  three  were  left. 

On  Zinzendorf  these  disasters  had  a  strange  effect. 
Instead  of  being  cast  down  or  dismayed,  he  composed 
a  noble  hymn  in  the  Brethren's  honour  ;f  other 
Brethren  followed  without  a  tremor  ;  and  after  three 
more  had  died — including  Gottlieb  Israel — the  first 
station,  Friedensthal  (1755),  was  founded. 
1741  Meanwhile,   in   St.  John,  the  work  had  progressed 

more  smoothly.  For  a  few  months  the  only  preacher 
to  the  slaves  was  an  overseer,  Jens  Rasmus  ;  then 
Martin  himself  arrived,  and  earning  his  living  by  making 
spoons,  actually  bought  the  estate  where  the  first 
station — Bethany  (1754) — was  afterwards  founded. 

Thus,  at  a  terrible  cost  of  life,  did  the  Brethren 

fTen  in  the  earth  were  sown  as  seed, 
Lost  to  man's  expectation  ; 
Yet  oil  their  graves  our  faith  doth  read, 
*'  Seed  of  the  Negro  Nation." 


The  Danish  West  Indies.  49 

establish  the  Mission  in  the  Danish  West  Indies. 
In  St.  Thomas  alone,  during  the  first  fifty  years, 
one  hundred  and  sixty  missionaries  died.  With 
the  death  of  Martin  (1750)  the  pioneer  period 
closed.  Zinzendorf  called  him  "  The  Faithful 
Witness,"  and  his  grave,  on  the  Princess  Estate  in 
St.  Croix,  still  keeps  his  memory  green. 

For  thirty  years  after  Martin's  death  the  cause 
steadily  advanced.  In  1754  the  three  islands  were 
placed  under  the  direct  rule  of  the  Government ; 
in  1774  the  King  of  Denmark  issued  a  special  edict 
in  the  Brethren's  favour ;  and  Governors  and  planters 
alike  were  now  quite  friendly.  Thus  encouraged, 
the  Brethren  founded  new  stations.  In  St.  Thomas 
they  founded  Niesky  (1771) ;  in  St.  Croix,  Friedens- 
berg  (1771) ;    and  in  St.  John,  Emmaus  (1782). 

For  twenty-two  years  the  chief  leader  was  Martin  1762-84 
Mack.  Under  his  efficient  rule  "  native  helpers " 
were  appointed,  and  many  of  these  were  men  of  the 
highest  character.  The  most  distinguished  was  a 
slave  named  Cornelius.  By  his  industry  as  a  stone- 
mason he  succeeded  in  purchasing  his  own  freedom. 
He  could  preach  with  ease  in  Creole,  Dutch,  German, 
English  and  Danish,  and  both  by  his  conduct  and  by 
his  sermons  he  shewed  that,  when  the  right  methods 
were  employed,  a  West  Indian  native  could  rise  to 
a  high  intellectual  and  moral  level. 


Chapter  IV. 

THE  BRITISH  WEST  INDIES,   1754—1800. 

As  this  chapter  brings  us  under  the  British  flag, 
we  naturally  liope  to  find  ourselves  in  a  more  sym- 
pathetic  Christian  atmosphere.      This    hope  is  not 
altogether  disappointed  ;    and  the  chief  point  for  us 
to  bear  in  mind  is  that  while  most  of  the  British 
planters  were  both  godless  and  cruel,*)"  each  island 
also    contained    a    few    high-souled    Christians.     By 
Inost    of   the    British    planters    the    first    Moravian 
Missionaries  were  despised,  and  sometimes  opposed  ; 
by  a  few  distinguished  exceptions  they  were  warmly 
supported  ;    and  most  of  the  Governors  and  higher 
officials  were  in  favour  of  the  Mission.     In  Jamaica 
the  first  invitation  came  from  two  pious  planters  ; 
in    Antigua    the    Governor    encouraged    the    work ; 
in  Barbados  the  Brethren  were  aided  by  a  clergy- 
man, by  a  doctor,  and  by  a  Quaker  planter  ;    and 
in  St.  Kitts  and  in  Tobago  a  pious  planter,  in  each 
case,   gave  the  first  invitation.     For  the   credit  of 
the   British   race   the   names    of   these   noble    men 
should    be    remembered.     The    two    pious    Jamaica 
planters    were    William    Foster    and    John    Foster 
Barham  ;    the  name  of  the  Barbados  Quaker  was 
Jackman ;     the    pious    planter    in    St.    Kitts    was 
Gardiner ;    and  the  equally  pious  planter  in  Tobago 
was    Hamilton.     During    the    eighteenth    century, 
therefore,  the  Moravian  missionaries  in  the  British 
West  Indies  occupied  a  curious  position.     With  the 
possible  exception  of  Antigua,  each  island  seems  to 

fThis  must  be  candidly  admitted.  In  hia  diary,  George 
Caries,  one  of  the  first  missionaries  in  Jamaica,  says 
that  nearly  every  night  he  could  hear  the  shrieks  of  negroes 
who  were  being  flogged  ;  and  children  only  six  years  old  were 
forced  to  work  in  the  fields. 

50 


The  British  West  Indies.  51 

have    possessed    a    few    planters    deeply    interested 

in    Christian    work    among    the    slaves.     By    these 

pious  planters  the  first  Moravian  missionaries  were 
encouraged-;  on  the  estates  of  these  planters  they 
built  their  first  stations  ;  and,  in  some  cases,  they 
were  presented  with  land,  became  small  plantation 
owners  themselves,  and  preached,  therefore,  in  the 
first  instance,  to  their  own  slaves.  Let  us  now  see 
how  this  system  worked  : — 

(1)  Jamaica,  1754. — For  two  or  three  years  before  1754 
this  Mission  commenced,  the  most  famous  Moravian 
in  England  was  that  popular  preacher,  John  Cennick. 
One  day  two  wealthy  planters,  William  Foster  and 
John  Foster  Barham,  resident  in  England,  but 
owning  estates  in  Jamaica,  having  heard  John 
Cennick  preach,  asked  him  to  take  spiritual  charge  of 
their  slaves  in  Jamaica.  In  reply  to  this  invitation, 
John  Cennick,  who  w^as  then  in  Ireland,  declared 
that  he  could  not  leave  his  present  work ;  the 
two  planters,  nothing  daunted,  appealed  to  the. 
Moravian  Elders ;  and  next  year  (1754)  the 
first  three  missionaries  —  George  Caries,  Thomas 
Shallcross,  and  Gottlieb  Haberecht  —  arrived  in, 
Jamaica.  Let  us  note  carefully  the  precise 
arrangement.  Among  the  estates  belonging  to  the 
two  planters,  one  was  named  New  Carmel.  Near 
it  they  had  four  other  estates,  Elim,  Lancaster, 
Two-Mile  Wood  and  the  Bogue  ;  and  the  strange 
arrangement  now  made  was  that  while  the  first 
estate,  New  Carmel,  was  actually  presented  to  the 
Brethren,  they  were  allowed  to  preach  on  all  five 
estates.  The  result  was  curious.  For  over  sixty 
years  New  Carmel,  a  low,  unhealthy  and  depressing 
spot,  situated  near  the  mouth  of  the  Black  River, 
remained  not  only  the  headquarters  of  the  work, 
but  the  only  Moravian  Mission  Station.  There 
the   Brethren   earned   their   living   by   working   the 


52  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

plantation ;  there  they  bred  cattle ;  there  they 
employed  a  gang  of  slaves  to  look  after  both 
the  plantation  and  the  cattle  ;  there,  just  like  other 
planters,  they  had  to  administer  discipline  and 
punish  malingerers  ;  and  there,  finally,  they  built  a 
preaching-hall,  and  preached  on  Sundays  to  the  very 
men  whom  they  employed  as  labourers  during  the 
week.  For  the  following  reasons,  however,  the 
Brethren's  first  efforts  in  Jamaica  can  only  be 
described  as  a  failure  : — (a)  In  spite  of  the  influence 
of  George  Caries,  for  whom  the  negroes  conceived  a 
strong  affection,  most  of  the  missionaries,  though 
respected,  were  not  loved.  How  could  the  negroes 
love  a  man  who,  after  preaching  the  Gospel  on 
Sunday,  punished  them  for  laziness  on  Monday  ? 
(6)  By  earning  their  own  living  the  missionaries  lost 
caste.  According  to  the  Jamaica  planters,  a  clergy- 
man ought  at  least  to  be  a  gentleman  ;  some  of  the 
missionaries,  they  observed,  even  did  their  own 
washing,  and  that  fact  was  sufficient  in  itself  to 
expose  them  to  contempt,  (c)  The  more  time  the 
Brethren  devoted  to  business,  the  less  time  they 
had  for  spiritual  work,  (d)  Another  cause  was  the 
Brethren's  system  of  discipline.  For  some  years 
the  leader  in  Jamaica  was  Christian  Henry  Ranch, 
originally  sent  by  Zinzendorf  as  Inspector.  Among 
the  Red  Indians  Ranch  had  been  a  success  (see 
Chap.  6,  section  2) ;  in  Jamaica  he  nearly  ruined 
the  mission.  By  nature  he  was  a  stern  martinet ; 
and  so  many  rules  did  he  lay  down  that  both  the 
missionaries  and  the  negroes  lost  heart.  First, 
he  offended  George  Caries,  who  retired  in  disgust ; 
then,  taking  the  reins  himself,  he  laid  down  the 
absurd  rule  that  no  convert  might  be  baptized 
unless  he  had  attained  a  high  standard  in 
Christian  doctrine  ;  and  the  negroes  felt  that  they 
were  living  under   a   system   of  tyranny,     {e)   The 


The  British  West  Indies.  58 

last  cause  of  failure  was  ill-health.  In  order  to 
purify  the  bad  drinking  water,  some  of  the 
missionaries,  following  the  false  ideas  of  the  time, 
resorted  to  rum;  thereby,  in  their  innocence,  they 
undermined  their  constitutions,  and  this  was  one 
reason  why  the  death-rate  was  so  high. 

2.  Antigua,  J-_756. — The  case  of  Antigua  offers  a  1756 
striking  contrast.  During  the  first  fourteen  years  the 
cause  in  Antigua  seemed  hopeless.  Samuel  Isles, 
the  first  missionary,  founded  only  one  station,  St. 
JoHn's,  and  baptized  only  fourteen  converts;  and 
judging  by  his  own  vivid  reports,  the  chief  reason 
seems  to  have  been,  not  that  his  colleagues  pursued 
wrong  methods,  but  that  the  Antigua  slaves  were 
abnormally  depraved.  Day  after  day,  he  tells  us, 
they  indulged  in  drunken  orgies ;  day  after  day 
they  stabbed  and  poisoned  each  other ;  and  once  a 
week,  on  ^londay  morning,  the  planters  had  culprits 
to  hang.  And  then  came  a  sudden  dramatic  change. 
For  twenty-two  years  (1769-91)  the  work  in  Antigua 
was  under  the  efficient  management  of  Peter  Braun, 
known  to  the  negroes  as  "  Massa  Brown."  During 
this  man's  ministry  two  more  flourishing  stations, 
Bailey  Hill  (1774)  and  Gracehill  (1782)  were  founded, 
and  the  total  number  of  converts  rose  to  over  seven 
thousand.  His  success  may  be  attributed  to  two 
causes.  The  first  was  financial.  According  to  his 
own  explicit  statement,  Braun  and  his  colleagues  had 
still  to  earn  their  own  living  ;t  on  the  other  hand, 
they  received  parcels  from  their  Moravian  friends 
in  North  America ;  and  the  consequence  of  this 
arrangement    was    that,    while    the    missionaries   in 

fin  1770,  e.g.,  Braun  writes  as  follows: — "For  three  months  we 
have  had  no  work,  and  consequently  no  means  of  earning 
anything."      From   this   sentence    I   draw   two   conclusions : 

(1)  That  the  missionaries  in  Antigua  did  not  own  a  plantation. 
Men  who  OMr-ned  a  plantation  woiJd  not  be  thrown  out  of  work. 

(2)  That  the  missionaries  had  to  e&m  their  living  in  some  way. 


54  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Jamaica  were  too  pre-occupied  with  business,  those 
in  Antigua  had  more  time  for  religious  work.  The 
other  cause  was  Braun's  personal  character.  Accord- 
ing to  one  of  his  successors,  Bennett  Harvey,  Braun 
acquired  his  influence  over  the  negroes,  not  merely 
by  his  eloquence  as  a  preacher,  but  by  his  wonderful 
tact  and  good  nature.  He  visited  them,  says  Harvey, 
in  their  huts,  chatted  with  them  in  the  fields,  and 
ate  with  them  out  of  their  calabashes.  Let  us  not, 
however,  judge  Braun  merely  by  numbers.  By  his 
gracious  personal  influence,  Braun  raised  the  Antigua 
negroes  to  a  high  level  of  moral  character  ;  in  his 
letters  he  himself  boldly  extolled  their  virtues ; 
and  one  planter,  speaking  of  a  convert,  said  :  "  I 
would  not  part  with  him  for  £500."  The  result  was 
greater  than  Braun  himself  contemplated.  The  fame 
/  of  his  work  reached  London.  At  the  very  time  when 
Braun  was  at  the  height  of  his  success,  Christian, 
/\Z^--^Ignatius  La  Trobe,  English  Secretary  for  Moravian 
^  \  "Missions,  drew  up  an  important  memorial  and 
presented  it  to  a  Committee  of  the  Privy  Council. 
In  that  memorial  he  described  Moravian  methods  of 
work  in  the  West  Indies.  Antigua  seems  to  have 
been  specially  mentioned,  and  so  impressed  was  the 
Privy  Council  by  what  it  heard  that  when  the 
question  of  emancipation  was  officially  mooted,  the 
Antigua  missionaries  were  asked  to  state  what 
policy  they  would  recommend.  Nor  was  this  the 
whole  of  Braun's  influence.  Among  his  chief  friends 
in  England  was  Rowland  Hill.  Braun  corresponded 
with  Hill,  and  stimulated  his  interest  in  foreign 
missions,  and  thereby,  indirectly,  contributed  to 
the  formation  of  the  L.M.S. 

1765  (3)     Barbados,  1765. — For  fifteen  years  the  work 

in  Barbados  was  one  dreary  series  of  disasters.  The 
chief  cause  seems  to  have  been  fever,  due  either  to 
the  climate  or  to  bad  water,  and  so  rapidly  did  the 


The  British  West  Indies.  55 

missionaries  die — Andrew  Rittmansberger  (1765), 
John  Fozzard  (1766),  Benjamin  Brookshaw  (1772), 
John  Bennett  (1772),  Herr  (1773)  and  Angerman 
(1775) — that,  while  the  local  clergy  were  friendly, 
and  Jackman,  a  Quaker,  allowed  the  Brethren  to_ 
preach  on  his  estate  near  Bridgetown,  no  consistent^ 
progress  could  be  made.  Nor  was  death  in  the  ranks 
the  only  trouble.  In  1780  came  the  "  Great 
Hurricane."  In  consequence  of  this  disaster  the  whole 
island  was  demoralised  ;  planters  and  slaves  alike 
lost  their  faith  in  the  goodness  of  God  ;  and  so  strong 
was  the  anti-Christian  feehng  that  the  Brethren 
founded  only  one  station — Sharon  (1795). 

4.  St.   Kitts,   1777. — At  the  special  request   of      1777 
a    pious    planter    named    Gardiner,    who    was    so 
enthusiastic   that   he   came   to   London   and   inter- 
viewed  two   leading   Moravians   there,   the   Church 

sent  two  missionaries,  John  Gottwalt  and  James 
Birkby.  Gardiner  gave  them  a  house  at  Basseterre  ; 
there  the  first  Moravian  Church  was  built  (1795), 
and  so  energetically  did  the  missionaries  work — 
especially  Gottwalt's  successor,  Schneller — that  by 
the  year  1800  the  number  of  converts  had  risen  to 
2,000. 

5.  Tobago,   1790.f — For  this  mission  a  planter,      1790 
Hamilton,    was    responsible.     The    first    missionary 

was  John  ^lontgomery,  father  of  James  Montgomery, 
the  poet,  and  one  station.  Signal  Hill,  was  founded. 
During  Montgomery's  stay,  however,  Tobago  was 
in  the  hands  of  the  French  (1790-99).  French 
soldiers  introduced  French  revolutionary  notions, 
and  so  many  street  riots  occurred  that  Montgomery 
had  to  retire. 


fTobago    is  said   to    be    Robinson  Crusoe's  island,  and  his  cave       -«., 
is    shown     to     visitors.       (Robinson,    History    of   Christian 
Missions,  p.  398.) 


56  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

6.  Summary. — By  the  close,  therefore,  of  the 
eighteenth  century  the  Moravians  had  made  but  a 
modest  beginning  in  the  British  West  Indies.  In 
Jamaica  they  had  only  one  station,  New  Carmel ; 
in  Antigua,  three,  St.  John's,  Gracehill,  and  Gracebay ; 
in  Barbados,  one,  Sharon ;  in  St.  Kitts,  one,  Basse- 
terre ;  in  Tobago,  one.  Signal  Hill.  For  this  com- 
paratively slow  progress  the  chief  reason  was  that 
all  the  missionaries  had  still  to  earn  their  own  living  ; 
sometimes  they  were  far  worse  off  than  the  slaves  ; 
and  one  year,  the  Antigua  missionaries,  being  out 
of  work,  had  nothing  to  eat  but  a  little  bread  sent 
by  friends  in  New  York.  In  Jamaica  the  Brethren 
owned  a  plantation  ;  on  the  other  islands  they  were 
artisans  or  tradesmen  ;f  and  though  they  received 
some  financial  assistance  from  the  three  Home 
Provinces,  they  could  never  give  all  their  time  to 
religious  work. 

■fLet  one  example  suffice  :    John  Bennett  was  a  tailor. 


Chapter  V. 
GREENLAND,  1733—1774. 

The  situation  in  Greenland  was  critical.  As 
Zinzendorf  was  on  his  visit  to  the  Royal  Court 
at  Copenhagen,  he  saw  two  little  Eskimo  boys,  who 
had  been  baptized  by  the  missionary,  Hans  Egede ; 
and  as  the  story  of  Anthony  Ulrich  fired  the  zeal  of 
Leonard  Dober,  so  the  story  of  Hans  Egede  fired 
the  zeal  of  Matthew  Stach.  The  story  of  Hans  Egede 
was  heart-rending.  For  ten  years  (1721-31)  he  had 
ploughed  on  a  rock.  In  order  to  come  into  close 
touch  with  the  Eskimos,  he  had  taken  his  wife  and 
family  with  him,  built  a  house  on  a  Uttle  island  at 
the  mouth  of  the  Balls  River,  prepared  an  Eskimo 
catechism  and  grammar,  and,  aided  by  his  son, 
painted  pictures  of  the  Creation,  the  Fall,  the 
Crucifixion,  the  Healing  Miracles,  the  Resurrection, 
and  the  Judgment  Day  ;  and  yet,  in  spite  of  all 
his  efforts,  he  did  not  gain  one  single  genuine  convert. 
The  only  story  the  Eskimos  liked  was  the  story  of  the 
Healing  Miracles,  and  from  that  story  they  drew 
their  own  conclusions. 

"  If  you  are  the  priest  of  such  a  mighty  God," 
they  said,  "  you  must  perform  similar  miracles  for 
us."  For  a  few  months  Egede  tried  to  oblige  them  ; 
one  or  two  patients,  for  whom  he  prayed,  recovered  ; 
and  then,  when  he  could  not  guarantee  success,  the 
people  denounced  him  as  an  impostor.  At  the  back 
of  their  minds  the  fundamental  idea  was  that  unless 
Egede  could  satisfy  their  physical  needs  he  was 
no  true  prophet  of  God.  "  If  you  wish  us  to  believe 
in  you,"  they  said,  "  you  must  give  us  the  kind  of 
weather  we  want,  send  us  plenty  of  seals  and  fish, 
and   heal  our  diseases."     During  nearly  the  whole 

{57J 


58  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

of  his  ministry  Egede  was  treated,  not  with  respect, 
but  with  scorn.  One  day  the  people  would  listen 
with  mock  respect,  and  ask  to  be  baptized  ;  the  next 
day  they  would  burst  out  laughing  in  his  face. 
Sometimes  a  gang  of  angekoks  {i.e.,  sorcerers)  would 
beat  drums  during  the  singing  ;  sometimes  plots  were 
formed  to  take  his  life  ;  and  sometimes  the  people 
would  send  him  off  on  a  false  scent  by  concocting 
a  story  of  a  shipwreck.  On  the  whole,  therefore, 
Egede,  to  the  Eskimos,  was  chiefly  a  source  of  amuse- 
ment ;  and,  no  matter  what  arguments  he  used,  they 
could  always  invent  some  smart  retort.  In  vain  he 
warned  them  against  hell-fire ;  they  replied  that  the 
heat  would  be  a  pleasant  change  from  the  cold  of 
Greenland.  In  vain  he  contended  that  their  angekoks 
had  never  seen  the  familiar  spirits  with  whom  they 
professed  to  deal.  "  Well,"  they  answered,  "  where 
have  you  seen  your  God  ?  "  In  vain  he  depicted 
the  Judgment  Day,  when  the  heavens  would  be 
rolled  up  like  a  scroll.  "  No,"  they  retorted,  "  our 
angekoks  have  been  in  the  sky,  and  report  that  it 
is  still  in  good  repair."  In  vain  he  tried  to  teach 
the  children  to  read  and  write.  What  was  the 
use,  they  asked,  of  mumbling  "ABC"  in  a  class- 
room, or  bending  over  a  desk  and  spluttering  ink  with 
a  feather  ?  Would  that  mode  of  education  enable 
them  to  catch  more  seals  ?  In  order  to  please  a  few 
of  the  parents,  who  professed  to  believe  his  message, 
Egede  baptized  their  children.  But,  speakly  broadly, 
the  adults  seemed  hopeless ;  Egede  himself  was 
half  convinced  that  they  had  drifted  beyond  hope  of 
redemption ;  and  sometimes,  in  his  despair,  he 
threatened  that,  if  they  did  not  pay  more  attention, 
the  King  of  Denmark  would  send  some  soldiers. 
At  length  the  King  himself.  Christian  V.,  took 
drastic  measures.  In  1728  he  sent  some  ships, 
well    stocked    with    ammunition ;     the    colony    of 


f-^u^Ju^jti 


t^ 


Greenland.  59 

Godhaab  was  founded  ;  and  a  trade  in  blubber  was 
opened.  But  this  experiment  did  more  harm  than 
good.  Most  of  the  settlers  had  free  fights  with  the 
natives  ;  the  blubber  trade  did  not  pay  ;  and  the 
next  King,  Christian  VI.,  informed  Egede  that  if  he 
was  foolish  enough  to  stay  in  Greenland  he  must  do 
so  on  his  oym  responsibility.  In  the  past  he  had 
been  supported  by  the  Danish  College  of  Missions  ; 
now  that  support  would  be  withdrawn.  At  this 
crisis,  Zinzendorf  appeared  at  Copenhagen  ;  a  few 
weeks  later  he  told  the  whole  story  at  Herrnhut; 
and  Matthew  Stach,  a  young  emigrant  from  Moravia, 
resolved  that  where  Egede  had  failed  he  would 
endeavour  to  succeed.  For  some  weeks  he  nursed 
his  hopes  in  secret ;  then  he  heard  Dober's  famous 
letter  read  at  a  public  meeting,  and  soon  after- 
wards he  unburdened  his  soul  to  his  young  friend, 
Frederick  Bohnisch.  "  I  feel  exactly,"  said 
Matthew,  "  hke  those  two  men  who  wrote  the 
letter  ;  but  my  desire  is  to  go  to  the  heathen  in 
Greenland." 

"  You  have  taken  the  words  out  of  my  mouth," 
replied  Bohnisch,  "  that  is  exactly  how  I  feel 
myself." 

The  result  was  what  might  be  expected.  For  the 
long  period  of  eighteen  months  these  two  enthu- 
siastic young  men  had  to  contend  at  Herrnhut  with 
all  manner  of  criticism  and  opposition.  Finally, 
however,  the  Elders  surrendered,  and,  Bohnisch 
being  by  this  time  otherwise  occupied,  the 
following  three  were  chosen.  The  leader  of  the 
expedition  was  Christian  David,  the  carpenter ; 
the  two  others  were  Matthew  Stach  and  his  cousin. 
Christian  Stach  ;  and  on  January  19th,  1733,  these 
three  men  set  out  on  foot  for  Copenhagen.  Let 
us  note  precisely  in  what  capacity  they  went.  In 
spite  of  the  King  of  Denmark's  warning,  Egede  was 


^  ) 


60  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

still  in  Greenland  ;    and  these  three  men  went  out, 
not  as  missionaries  of  the  Moravian  Church,  but  as 
lay-assistants  to  Egede. 
1733  At  Copenhagen,  however,  they  heard  strange  news. 

At  the  very  time  when  they  appeared  at  the  Palace, 
King  Christian  VI.  had  just  resolved  to  send  out 
one  more  ship  to  Greenland  ;  this  ship  would  bring 
back  to  Denmark  the  last  batch  of  soldiers  ;  and  the 
three  Brethren  were,  therefore,  informed  that  if 
they  went  to  Greenland,  both  Egede  and  they  would 
be  entirely  without  government  protection.  Von 
Pless,  the  Chamberlain,  mentioned  other  difficulties. 

"  How  do  you  intend  to  live  ?  "  he  asked. 
I      "  By  the  labour  of  our  hands  and  God's  blessing," 
/  said  Chi'istian  David.     "  We  do  not  intend  to  be  a 
burden  to  anybody.     We  shall  build  a  house  and  till 
a  piece  of  land." 

"  But,"  said  Von  Pless,  "  there  is  no  timber  in  the 
country  fit  for  building." 

"  In  that  case,"  replied  Christian  David,  "  we 
shall  dig  a  hole  in  the  ground  and  live  there." 

"  Nonsense,"  exclaimed  Von  Pless,  "  you  shall 
never  be  left  in  the  lurch  like  that.  Take  wood 
with  you  and  build  a  house.  Here's  fifty  dollars 
for  the  purpose." 

Once  more  the  result  at  Copenhagen  was  glorious. 
In  spite  of  their  lack  of  University  education. 
Christian  David  and  his  colleagues  soon  convinced 
Von  Pless  that  they  did  at  least  know  enough  theology 
to  preach  the  Gospel  to  the  Eskimos,  and  before 
many  weeks  the  whole  court  was  in  favour  of  the 
new  enterprise.  The  King  himself  gave  Christian 
David  a  letter  of  introduction  to  Egede,  and  said 
that  if  all  the  settlers  at  Herrnhut  desired  to  go  to 
Greenland  he  would  pay  all  their  expenses ;  the 
President  of  the  College  of  Missions  wished  them 
God-speed ;    and  so  many  presents  in  money  did 


Greenland.  CI 

the  Brethren  receive  that  they  were  able  to  stock 
the  ship,  not  only  with  stones,  wood,  and  other 
building  materials,  but  also  with  household  furniture, 
and  a  goodly  supply  of  pro\4sions.  On  April  10th, 
!  1733,  the  Cariias  set  sail ;  on  May  20th  she  cast 
anchor  at  Godhaab ;  and  the  three  Brethren,  stepping 
ashore,  handed  Egede  their  letter  of  introduction, 
and  named  the  place  New  Herrnhut.  The  Danish 
veteran  welcomed  them  warmly,  and  promised  to 
teach  them  Eskimo.  During  the  first  few  weeks  the 
three  new  missionaries  were  employed,  partly  in 
trying,  with  Egede's  help,  to  learn  the  language, 
and  partly  in  studying  the  character  of  the  people  ; 
and  in  less  than  a  month  they  made  the  painful 
discovery  that  Hans  Egede  in  his  reports  had  not 
exaggerated  in  the  least.  One  Eskimo  stole  the 
Brethren's  manuscript ;  others  either  refused  to 
speak  or  merely  came  to  borrow  fish-hooks  and 
knives ;  and  others  said  "  The  sooner  you  fools 
go  home  the  better." 

The  Brethren  soon  discovered  the  cause  of  the 
trouble.  On  the  land,  with  his  greasy  hands,  the 
Eskimo  looked  repulsive,  and  his  filthy  hut  reeked 
with  the  smell  of  stale  fish  ;  on  the  sea  he  was  a 
brilliant  expert ;  and  the  reason  was  that  in 
the  sea  he  found  what  he  valued  most.  With 
his  sable  sea  dress  around  him,  and  his  white 
buttons  gleaming  in  the  sun,  he  took  his  seat 
in  his  trim  kayak  and  his  heart  throbbed  with 
the  joy  of  adventure.  His  skill  with  his  paddle 
was  amazing.  He  could  turn  his  kayak  upside  down 
and  hang  head-downwards  in  the  water  ;  he  could 
right  himself  by  a  jerk  and  a  twist  with  his  paddle  ; 
he  could  spin  in  a  whirlpool,  poise  on  the  crest  of  a 
wave,  steer,  tack,  and  shoot  beneath  the  rocks,  and 
smile  defiance  to  the  gales.  With  his  left  hand 
he  plied  his  paddle  ;    vnth.  his  right  he  hurled  his 


62  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

harpoon ;     and    the    man    who    invented    Eskimo 
harpoons  exhibited  signs  of  genius.     The  shaft  was 
six  feet  long.     At  one  end  of  this  shaft  there  was  a 
detachable  head,  made  of  bone,  barbed  and  pointed 
with  iron  ;    fastened  to  this  head  there  was  a  long 
string  ;    this  string  ran  through  a  hook  in  the  shaft 
and  lay  coiled  in  the  kayak,  and  at  the  other  end 
of  the  string  there  was  a  bladder.     The  hunter  hurled 
the  harpoon  ;  the  head  pierced  the  seal,  and  detached 
itself  from  the  shaft ;    the  seal,   stung  with  pain, 
darted   downwards  ;     the  bladder,    now   thrown   by 
the    hunter,    indicated    its    whereabouts ;     and    the 
huntsman,  when  it  came  up  to  breathe,  dispatched 
it   with   his   lances.      Sometimes   the  man  was   too 
slow  with  his  bladder,  and  then  the  kayak  capsized  ; 
sometimes    the    string  became    entangled  with  the 
paddle  or  coiled  itself  round  his  neck  ;    and  some- 
times the  seal  dragged  the  kayak  with  it  almost  to 
the  bottom  of  the  sea.     At  such  crises  the  Eskimo 
was  at  his  best.     Sooner  or  later  the  seal  returned 
to  the  surface  ;    the  Eskimo   dispatched  it  with  his 
lances ;      and    then,     after    refreshing    himself   by 
sucking  the  blood  from  its  neck,  he  towed  it  ashore, 
and  told  his  friends  the  story  of  his  doughty  deed. 
To  the  Greenlanders  the  seal  was  the  one  thing  need- 
ful.    From   seals   they   obtained   their   daily   food ; 
from  the  skins   of  seals  they  made  their  clothes  ; 
from  the  fat,  oil  for  their  lamps;    from  the  entrails, 
windows  and  curtains  ;    from  the  sinews,  cobbler's 
thread ;     from   the   bones,    harpoons   and   buttons ; 
from    the    blood,    a    savoury    soup.     Without   seals 
they   could   not   live.     For   seals   they   prayed,   for 
seals  they  toiled,   for  seals  they  constantly  risked 
their  lives.     According  to  the  Greenlanders,  there- 
fore,   every    man's    character    was    judged    entirely 
by  his  skill  as  a  seal-catcher.     If  he  excelled,  he  could 
have  a  wife  for  the  asking  ;  if  he  failed,  all  the  women 


Greenland.  68 

despised  him.  At  all  social  gatherings  the  chief 
topic  of  discussion  was  how  to  manage  kayaks  and 
capture  seals  ;  at  the  public  concerts  the  singers 
sang  of  seals  ;  and  the  dying  veteran  thought  of 
heaven  as  a  place  where  seals  were  boiled  alive  in 
the  kettle. 

In  spite,  however,  of  this  one-sided  interest  in 
things  material,  the  Grcenlanders  were  not  entirely 
depraved ;  and,  like  many  other  heathen,  they 
I  considered  themselves  the  finest  nation  in  the  world. 
Others  they  called  Kablunat,  i.e.,  barbarians  ;  them- 
selves they  called  Innuit,  i.e.,  the  men.  Nor  was  this 
self-complacency  entirely  unjustified.  They  rarely 
quarrelled ;  they  never  swore ;  they  hardly  ever 
committed  murder ;  and,  as  they  knew  but  little 
of  brewing,  they  did  not  often  get  drunk.  In 
Greenland  disputes  were  generally  settled,  not  by 
means  of  the  fist,  but  by  means  of  the  tongue.  Each 
of  the  disputants  sang  a  comic  song  at  the  other's 
expense  ;  the  contest  took  place  in  public  ;  and  the 
one  who  could  make  the  most  insulting  remarks 
was  acclaimed  by  the  audience  as  the  victor.  Most 
of  the  men  were  faithful  to  their  wives  ;  and  the 
old  people,  when  too  feeble  to  work,  were  supported 
by  their  sons. 

In  religion,  speaking  broadly,  they  do  not  seem  to 
have  taken  much  interest.  According  to  the  most 
thoughtful  Eskimos,  there  must  be  a  Creator ;  in 
favour  of  this  beUef  they  used  what  is  generally 
called  the  cosmological  argument ;  and  their  mode  of 
stating  the  case  was  similar  to  Archdeacon  Paley's 
famous  argument  about  the  watch.  "  I  have  often,'* 
said  an  Eskimo  to  the  Brethren,  "  thought  as  follows  : 
A  kayak  does  not  come  into  existence  of  itself.  It 
has  to  be  made  by  men's  hands  with  great  care  and 
skill,  and  a  man  who  does  not  understand  the  job 
will  spoil  it.     Now,  the  smallest  bird  is  much  more 


64  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

cunningly  made  than  the  best  kayak,  and  no  one  can 
make  a  bird.  Again,  a  man  is  much  cleverer  and 
wiser  than  any  of  the  animals.  Who  made 
him  ?  He  comes  from  his  parents.  But  where  did 
the  first  men  come  from  ?  Some  say  they  came 
out  of  the  earth.  If  so,  how  is  it  that  men  do  not 
still  come  out  of  the  earth  ?  "  By  some  of  the 
Eskimos  this  argument  was  pushed  a  little  further. 
As  the  world  was  full  of  good  things,  the  Creator 
must  be  benevolent ;  as  there  was  also  pain,  however, 
there  must  be  wicked  spirits  ;  and  as  all  men  dreaded 
the  future,  there  was  probably  something  after 
death.  On  the  other  hand,  said  the  Eskimos,  no 
one  had  ever  seen  the  great  Creator  ;  no  one,  except 
the  priests  or  angekoks,  knew  very  much  about  Him  ; 
and  these  angekoks  were  useful  people,  not  because 
they  were  profound  theologians  or  high-class  moral 
teachers,  but  because,  being  in  touch  with  a  spirit 
named  Torngak,  they  possessed  certain  miraculous 
powers.  In  theory,  the  Eskimo  believed  in  the 
Creator  ;  in  fact,  he  trusted  entirely  to  the  angekoks  ; 
and  these  angekoks  were  highly  esteemed.  They 
could  climb  to  heaven  on  a  string  and  interview  the 
"  Fat  Sages  "  there.  They  could  see,  in  a  tub  of 
water,  a  reflection  of  what  was  happening  to  a  lost 
relative ;  they  could  fetch  new  healthy  souls  for  the 
sick,  breathe  new  vigour  into  the  languid,  enchant 
arrows,  and  expel  diseases ;  and  above  all,  when 
seals  were  scarce,  they  knew  where  to  find  them. 
At  the  bottom  of  the  sea,  they  said,  there  lived  a 
wicked  she-dragon,  who  held  the  seals  in  bondage  ; 
and  the  angekok,  accompanied  by  his  familiar 
spirit,  travelled  through  the  "  Kingdom  of  Souls," 
crossed  a  yawning  chasm,  bearded  the  old  she-dragon 
in  her  den,  stripped  her  of  her  amulets,  and  thereby 
released  the  seals  which  she  had  held  in  bondage. 
Forthwith  the  seals  rose  to  the  surface  ;  by  methods 


Greenland.  65 

best  known  to  liimself  the  angekok  really  had  dis- 
covered their  lairs  ;  and  now,  appearing  in  a  state 
of  breathless  exhaustion,  he  was  hailed  as  the 
saviour  of  his  country. 

2.     Five  Remarkable  Events,  1733-8. 

For  five  years  the  early  missionaries  in  Green- 
land, Uke  Hans  Egede  himself,  preached  to  the 
Eskimos  in  vain.  During  those  lean  years,  however, 
they  had  certain  instructive  experiences,  and  each 
experience  taught  the  Brethren  valuable  lessons 
for  the  future. 

(a)     The   Quarrel  with   Egede.     For   this   disaster      1733 

we  must  lay  the  blame  partly  on  Christian  David, 

and  partly  on  certain  heresy-hunters  at  Copenhagen. 

At  the  very  time  when  Christian  Da\4d  was  earning 

the  goodwill  of  the  King  and  his  friends,  these  people 

started  a  rumour  that  the  Brethren  were  not  quite 

sound  in  the  faith ;   then  they  wTote  letters  to  that 

effect  to  Egede  ;    these  letters  were  conveyed  to  him 

by  the  Caritas  ;    and  Egede,  therefore,  at  the  very 

^^    outset,  regarded  his  new  assistants  with  suspicion. 

^K^  In    the    letters    the    Brethren    were    described    as 

^K^  "  Pietists " ;     that   word   filled    Egede   with    alarm, 

^B    and  straightway  he  asked  the  Brethren  to  state  their 

^K  views    on    Justification    by    Faith.     On    that    great 

^K   doctrine,  he  said,   the  Church   of  Christ  was  built. 

^B   The  burden  of  reply  fell  on  Christian  David,   and 

^B  ^Christian    David    now    committed    a    blunder.     For 

'  Eis  services  in  leading  emigrants  from  Moravia  he 

had    long    been    highly    honoured    at    Herrnhut ; 

■  Zinzendorf  even  called  him  the  "  Moravian  Moses  "  ; 

and  now,  being  somewhat  puffed  up  with  a  sense  of 

his  own  importance,  he  sat  do\^^l  to  his  desk,  wrote 

a  long  elaborate  treatise,  and  explained  fully  therein, 

to    Egede's    unspeakable    horror,    that    while    faith 

might    be    an    excellent    thing    it    was    worse    than 


66  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

^  useless  without  stern  moral  discipline.  The 
two  men  belonged,  in  fact,  to  two  different  schools 
of  thought.  Egede  was  an  Evangelical  Protestant. 
Christian  David  was  rather  an  ethical  teacher, 
Egede  laid  the  main  stress  on  St.  Paul's  Epistles  ; 
Christian  David  laid  it  on  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount ; 
and,  between  such  men,  reconciliation  seemed  im- 
possible.f  In  vain  Egede  offered  terms  of  peace. 
For  the  sake  of  the  cause  at  stake,  he  was  willing 
to  overlook  what  he  honestly  considered  defects  in 
the  Brethren's  theology  ;  and  in  a  beautiful  letter 
he  declared  that  he  was  willing  to  accept  the  Brethren 
as  his  colleagues.  "  In  spite  of  the  fact,"  he  said, 
*'  that  you  have  not  studied  theology,  you  are  none 
the  less  competent  to  reveal  the  mystery  of  Christ 
to  the  insane  Greenlanders,  i.e.,  as  soon  as  you  have 
mastered  the  language.  I  will  help  you  to  the  best 
of  my  power.  I  rejoice  that  Christ  is  preached  here  ; 
I  accept  eagerly  your  proffered  help ;  and  as  long  as  you 
adhere  to  Divine  truth,  as  I  feel  sure  you  will, 
I  recognise  you  as  my  brothers  and  colleagues 
in  the  work  of  the  Lord."  With  this  answer, 
however,  Christian  David  was  not  satisfied.  To 
him  there  was  something  offensive  in  the  suggestion 
that,  while  the  Brethren  were  not  good  theologians, 
they  were  at  least  fitted  to  preach  to  lunatics.  Down 
he  sat  to  his  desk  again,  and  wrote  another  hot 
letter ;  and  then  a  strange  event  occurred  which 
immediately  ended  the  dispute. 

1733''4  (6)  The  Small-Pox  Epidemic.  Among  the  passengers 
on  the  Caritas  there  was  a  little  Eskimo  boy  named 
Charles ;  this  boy  now  died  of  small-pox ;  and  during 
the   next  nine   months   the   epidemic    spread    with 

■fFor  his  conduct  on  this  occasion,  Christian  David  was  afterwards 
severely  rebuked  by  Ziazondorf.  "  What  do  yon  mean," 
said  the  Count,  in  a  letter  dated  August,  1735,  "  by  setting 
up  one  system  against  another  T  I  never  make  systems 
myae]i"—Briider-Bote,  1891,  p.  190. 


I 


Greenland.  67 

great  rapidity  all  along  the  West  Coast  of  Greenland. 
The  number  of  deaths  was  estimated  at  two  thousand. 
The  suffering  was  terrible.  For  some  reason  the 
pustules  did  not  burst ;  most  of  the  patients  suffered 
severely  both  from  thirst  and  pain  ;  and,  driven  to 
the  verge  of  madness,  they  stabbed  themselves  with 
harpoons,  hurled  themselves  down  precipices  into 
the  sea,  and  died  cursing  both  God  and  the 
missionaries.  Hans  Egede,  said  an  old  woman, 
had  taken  Charles  to  Copenhagen ;  Hans  Egede 
had  had  him  brought  back  to  Greenland ;  Hans 
Egede  and  his  colleagues  were,  therefore,  the  cause 
of  all  the  trouble.  The  old  woman's  statement  was 
false.  Charles  had  been  taken  to  Copenhagen  by 
traders,  and  the  missionaries  w^ere  not  in  the  least 
responsible.  On  all  the  missionaries  this  calamity 
had  the  same  glorious  effect.  As  soon  as  the  voice 
of  suffering  reached  their  ears,  they  forgot  their 
theological  disputes  ;  both  Egede  and  the  Brethren 
turned  their  houses  into  hospitals  ;  and  side  by  side 
they  trudged  across  the  pink  snow,  visiting  hundreds 
of  patients  in  their  huts,  burning  the  dead  under 
mounds  of  stones  and  grass,  and  speaking  of  the  Risen 
Christ  to  the  dying.  Thus  did  Egede  and  the  Brethren 
learn  that,  though  they  differed  from  each  other  in 
theology,  they  could  join  hands  in  Christian  work. 
For  three  more  years  they  laboured  together  in 
perfect  harmony  ;  then,  completely  worn  out,  Egede 
retired  from  the  scene  (July  29th,  1736)  and  was 
made  President  of  the  Danish  College  of  Missions  ; 
and  his  last  request  to  the  Brethren  was  that  they 
would  pardon  his  faults.  Meanwhile,  however, 
neither  he  nor  the  Brethren  had  seen  one  gleam  of 
hope.  As  soon  as  the  great  epidemic  was  over,  the 
few  survivors,  who  had  fled  in  terror,  returned  to 
Godhaab  ;  and  yet,  even  among  them,  there  was  not 
one  sign  of  gratitude.     As  long  as  the  conversation 


68  A  History  of  Moeavian  Missions. 

turned  upon  seals,  the  Eskimos  listened  with  pleasure ; 
but  as  soon  as  religious  topics  were  started  they 
grew  drowsy,  or  set  up  a  shout  and  ran  away.  "If 
you  will  not  give  us  any  more  stock-fish,"  they  said, 
"  we  will  not  listen  to  what  you  have  to  say." 

1735  (c)     The  Historic  Covenant.     On  this  incident  the 

whole  future  of  the  Greenland  Mission  depended. 
.  Once  more  the  situation  was  critical.  At  the  close 
S  fi^"  of  their  -first  year  in  Greenland,  Christian  David 
and  Christian  Stach  .retired  ;  soon  afterwards  their 
places  were  taken  by  Frederick  Bohnisch  and  John 
Beck  ;  and  then,  feeling  that  without  perseverance 
the  Greenland  Mission  would  perish,  the  three 
missionaries  on  the  spot — Matthew  Stach,  Frederick 
Bohnisch,  and  John  Beck — signed  their  names  to 
what  is  known  as  the  "  Covenant  of  the  Three 
Brethren  "  (March  6th,  1735). 

1.  We  will  never  forget  that  we  came  hither 
resting  upon  God  our  Saviour,  in  whom  all 
the  nations  of  the  earth  shall  be  blessed,  not 
on  the  principle  of  sight,  but  of  faith. 

2.  The  redemption  wrought  out  for  us  by  Christ, 
through  His  own  blood,  shall  be  our  chief 
doctrine,  which  we  will  confirm  by  our  words 
and  actions,  as  God  shall  give  us  ability,  and 
by  this  we  will  endeavour  to  bring  the  heathen 
to  the  obedience  of  faith. 

3.  We  will  prosecute  the  study  of  the  language 
with  assiduity,  patience  and  hope. 

4.  We  will  each  acknowledge  and  value  the 
spirit  and  graces  conferred  upon  the  other, 
in  honour  prefer  one  another,  and  be  subject 
to  each  other  in  the  Lord. 

5.  We  will  steadfastly  maintain  brotherly 
discipline,  admonition  and  correction,  accord- 
ing to  the  rule  of  Christ,   and  will  withdraw 


Greenland.  69 

from  anyone  who  swerves  from  the  purity 
of  the  Gospel,  until  he  shall  humble  himself 
before  God  and  his  Brethren. 

6.  We  will  do  our  outward  labour  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord,  and  if  anyone  is  remiss  we  will 
remind  him  of  his  duty. 

7.  Yet  will  we  not  be  over  anxious  for  externals, 
but  cast  our  care  upon  Him  who  feeds  the 
sparrows  and  clothes  the  flowers  of  the  field. 

Thus  did  three  Moravian  lajanen  resolve  that, 
whether  they  received  provisions  from  Europe  or 
not,  they  would  remain  at  their  posts ;  to  that 
covenant  each  of  the  three  held  fast ;  and  thereby 
they  established  the  mission  on  a  sohd  basis. 

(d)  Matthew  Stack's  Journey.  For  the  purpose  of  1737 
coming  into  closer  touch  with  the  people,  Matthew 
Stach,  in  1737,  visited  several  islands  south  of  New 
Herrnhut.  In  his  pocket  he  had  passages  of  Scripture 
translated  by  Egede  ;  and,  making  himself  at  home 
among  the  people,  he  slept  in  their  filthy  huts,  ate 
their  greasy  blubber,  and  was  so  beloved  that  they 
asked  him  to  join  in  their  lascivious  dances.  But 
as  soon  as  he  spoke  of  things  Divine  they  roared  with 
laughter. 

"  Come  out,"  they  said,  one  rainy  day,  "  and 
pray  to  your  God  for  fine  weather." 

"  There  is  no  need  for  that,"  said  Matthew,  "  you 
must  spread  your  tent-skins  on  your  rocks.  You 
should  rather  pray  for  mercy  on  your  souls." 

''  But  we  don't  want  mercy  on  our  souls,"  they 
answered ;  "  your  people  may  have  diseased  souls, 
ours  are  all  right," 

With  his  shp  of  paper  in  his  hand,  Matthew 
delivered  his  message.  "  Set  your  affection  on  things 
above,"  he  read  out  from  Colossians,  "  not  on  things 
of  the  earth." 


70  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

"  Why  so  ?  "  inquired  one  Eskimo.  In  vain 
Matthew  informed  the  inquirer  that  he  had  an 
immortal  soul,  and  that  if  he  did  not  repent  he 
would  burn  in  everlasting  fire. 

"  If  the  Son  of  God,"  replied  the  Eskimo,  "  is 
such  a  terrible  being,  I  don't  want  to  go  to  Heaven 
to  Him." 

"  Would  you  like  to  go  to  hell-fire  ?  " 

"  No  ;  I  shall  not  go  there  either.  I  shall  stay 
here  on  the  earth." 

No  matter  what  method  Matthew  tried,  the 
people  slammed  the  door  in  his  face.  If  he  read  the 
Scriptures,  they  mimicked  him ;  if  he  taught,  they 
sneered ;  if  he  prayed,  they  beat  their  drums  ; 
if  he  sang,  they  howled  ;  if  he  spoke  of  God,  they 
giggled  ;  and  if  he  told  them  the  Gospel  story,  they 
replied  with  stories  about  their  angekoks.  With  a 
weary  heart  Matthew  returned  to  New  Herrnhut. 
There  his  colleagues  still  laboured  in  vain  ;  some- 
times they  were  even  beaten  and  stoned ;  and, 
feeling  that  the  Greenlanders  were  almost  hopeless, 
Frederick  Bohnisch  wrote  the  pathetic  lines  : — 

Here  toils  a  little  group  of  men, 
Endowed  with  scanty  powers  ; 
I     And  day  by  day,  in  blank  despair, 
[         They  count  the  dreary  hours. 

1738  (e)     The  Conversion  of  Kayarnak,  June  2nd,  1788. 

For  some  weeks  John  Beck  had  been  busy  preparing 
a  translation  of  the  Gospels.  One  summer  evening 
he  was  working  alone  ;  on  the  table  lay  his  Biblef 
and  manuscript ;  and  looking  up,  he  saw  some 
Eskimos  standing  at  his  tent  door.  Among  the 
number  was  a  young  man  named  Kayarnak. 

"  What  is  that  book  all  about  ?  "  said  one  of  the  group. 


fTliis  Bible  is  now  in  tlit-  Moravian  Mission  Library,  at  32,  Fetter 
Lane,  E.G. 


I 


Greenland.  71 

John  Beck  read  out  a  few  verses,  and  then  began 
to    expound. 

"  Do  you  know,"  he  asked,  "  that  you  all  possess 
immortal  souk  ?  " 

"  Yes,"  they  replied. 

"  Do  you  know  where  they  will  go  to  after  death  ?  " 

"  Up  to  the  sky "  said  some.  "  Deep  down 
below  "  said  others. 

"  Do  you  know  who  made  the  heavens  and  the 
earth  and  every  visible  thing  ?  " 

"  No,  we  don't,"  replied  the  Eskimos,  "  but  it 
must  have  been  some  great  and  wealthy  lord." 

For  some  moments  John  Beck,  just  like  Egede 
before  him,  continued  to  expound  dogmatic  theology. 
Then  a  sudden  inspiration  seized  him,  and,  picking 
up  the  last  page  of  his  manuscript,  he  began  to 
read  from  his  translation  of  the  Gospels.  He  had 
come  to  St.  Matthew's  account  of  the  Agony  in 
Gethsemane. 

"  And  He  took  with  Him  Peter  and  the  two  sons 
of  Zebedee,  and  began  to  be  sorrowful  and  very 
heavy.  And  He  fell  on  His  face  and  prayed, 
saying.  Father,  if  it  be  possible,  let  this  cup  pass 
from  me." 

At  these  words,  Kayarnak,  with  a  sudden  cry, 
sprang  forward  to  the  table  ;  his  eyes  shone  like 
stars,  and  his  voice  trembled  with  emotion. 

"  What  is  that  ?  "  he  asked.  "  Tell  me  that  again ; 
for  I,  too,  would  be  saved." 

At  last  the  ice  had  melted.  For  several  hours 
that  golden  evening  John  Beck,  with  tears  of  joy 
running  down  his  cheeks,  was  employed  in  telling 
the  little  company  all  the  details  of  the  Passion 
History  ;  before  the  sun  set  he  was  joined  by  Stach 
and  Bohnisch  ;  and  some  of  the  Eskimos  were  so 
impressed  that  they  asked  to  be  taught  to  pray. 
On   Kayarnak   himself  the    effect    was    wonderful. 


72  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

By  the  Brethren's  dogmatic  theology  he  had  been 
entirely  unaffected;  by  the  ^^story  of  Gethsemane 
and  Calvary  he  was  thrilled  and  transformed ; 
and  next  year  (March  ^30th,  1739)  he  was  publicly 
baptized  as  the  first-fruit  of  the  Greenland  Mission. 

His  conversion  roused  the  enemy  to  fresh  energy. 
For  some  months,  said  Matthew  Stach,  it  seemed  as 
though  the  Devil  himself  had  been  let  loose  in 
Greenland.  At  Disko  an  aspiring  young  man  tried  to 
carry  off  Anna  Stach  by  force  ;  at  Kanjek  the  people 
drank  till  they  were  torpid  ;  at  another  place  a 
youth  tied  his  mother  in  a  sack  and  buried  her 
alive  on  a  desolate  island ;  and,  finally,  certain 
desperadoes  stabbed  Kayarnak's  brother-in-law  and 
hurled  his  body  over  a  cliff.  Kayarnak  himself  was 
now  in  danger,  and  fled  for  safety  to  the  south.  There 
his  friends  asked  him  to  join  in  a  sun-dance.  "  No," 
he  replied,  "  I  have  now  another  joy,  for  another 
sun,  Jesus,  has  risen  in  my  heart."  With  him  as  a 
convert  the  Brethren  were  more  than  satisfied ; 
he  conducted  prayer  meetings,  reasoned  with  the 
crass,  and  helped  the  Brethren  in  their  translation 
work  ;  and,  being  the  first  Eskimo  Christian  known 
to  history,  he  has  gained  a  niche  in  the  temple  of 
fame. 

3.     The  Turn  of  the  Tide  (1740). 

{a)  The  Change  of  Method.  At  the  very  time 
when  the  Brethren  in  Greenland  were  in  the  deepest 
despair,  Count  Zinzendorf  was  beginning  to 
preach  his  so-called  "  Blood  and  Wounds  Theology" ; 
Andrew  Grassman,  who  came  to  inspect,  now 
brought  this  theology  to  Greenland ;  and  the 
1740  Brethren  altered  their  mode  of  preaching  to  the 
Eskimos,  not,  as  we  might  have  imagined,  because 
they  were  impressed  by  the  case  of  Kayarnak,  but 
because  they  were  convinced  by  Grassman's  argu- 


Greenland.  78 

ments.  With  the  visit  of  Grassman,  therefore,  a 
new  era  opened  in  the  Greenland  Mission.  In  the 
past  the  Brethren  had  preached  abstract  theological 
doctrine  ;  henceforth  they  adopted  the  picturesque 
narrative  method.  In  the  past  they  had  discoursed 
about  the  Fall  of  Man  and  the  Plan  of  Salvation  ; 
henceforward  they  gave  the  people  the  Passion 
History  in  detail ;  and  the  Eskimos  themselves  soon 
noticed  the  difference.  At  the  story  of  Adam  and 
Eve  they  had  merely  wondered  ;  at  the  story  of  the 
Crown  of  Thorns  they  wept ;  and  sometimes,  at  the 
baptismal  service,  their  tears  dripped  into  the  font. 
"  What  strange  event  is  this  ?  "  they  said  to  the 
Brethren.  "  Your  present  discourse  affects  us 
differently  from  what  you  were  always  telhng  us 
about  God  and  our  first  parents.  Of  course,  we  used 
to  say  that  we  beheved  it ;  but  we  were  quite  tired 
of  hearing  it.  '  What  signifies  all  this  to  us  ? '  we 
thought.  But  now  you  teU  us  a  really  interesting 
story."  But  the  story  of  the  Cross  proved  more 
than  interesting.  Formerly,  the  Eskimos  had  been 
self-complacent ;  now,  gazing  at  the  crucified 
Redeemer,  they  confessed  their  sins,  repented,  and 
asked  to  be  baptized  ;  and,  noting  this  remarkable 
change,  John  Beck,  in  a  letter  to  Zinzendorf,  said  : 
"  Henceforth,  we  shall  preach  nothing  but  the  love 
of  the  slaughtered  Lamb." 

{b)  Organization.  As  soon  as  the  Eskimos  began 
to  repent  of  their  sins,  Andrew  Grassman  perceived 
that  the  time  had  come  to  estabhsh  a  branch  of  the 
Christian  Church  in  Greenland.  First  he  took 
Matthew  Stach  with  him  to  Marienborn  on  the  Dec.  12th, 
Wetterau  and  had  him  ordained  a  Presbyter  ;  then  1741 
Matthew  was  officially  appointed  "  Teacher  of  the 
Greenlanders,"  and  received  from  the  King  of 
Denmark  a  rescript  authorising,  not  only  him,  but 
also  ail  other  Moravian  ministers,  to  baptize,  marry. 


74  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

and    conduct    the    Holy    Communion ;     and    then, 

Mar.  16th,  soon    after    Matthew's    return    to    Greenland,    the 

1742    ,  Brethren   organized   New  Herrnhut   as   a  Moravian 

I  settlement.     For  this  policy  their  chief  reason  was 

I  that  if  they  could  persuade  the  natives  to  live  all 

together    in    one    village    they    would    have    more 

efficient    control    over    their    moral    conduct.     The 

natives   gladly   responded  ;     New   Herrnhut  became 

a  flourishing  settlement ;   and  the  Brethren,  following 

Zinzendorf's    example    at    Herrnhut,    formed    their 

converts  into  bands  and  classes,  taught  the  children 

by  means  of  a  Catechism,   and  once  a  month,   on 

"  Congregation  Day,"  gave  their  people  full  accounts 

of  missionary  work  in  other  lands.     In  due  time, 

other  improvements  were  introduced.     At  the  special 

1747      request  of  the  people  themselves  a  Church  for  public 

worship    was    built   and    opened ;     then   followed    a 

"  Single  Brethren's  House  "  and  a  "  Single  Sisters* 

House  "  ;    and  regular  services  were  now  held  every 

day.     At  six  each  morning  there  was  a  meeting  for 

the  baptized  ;    at  eight  a  short  service  for  the  whole 

village ;    at  nine  the  children  learned  their  Catechism 

and  then  went  to  the  day-school ;   and  in  the  evening 

there  was  a  service  with  sermon. 

At  the  same  time  the  Brethren  organized  the  social, 

/    industrial    and    civic    life    of    the    people.     Among 

«      Matthew  Stach's  assistants  the  most  remarkable  was 

John  Sorensen,  and  the  story  of  Sorensen's  call  to 

Greenland  is  a  classic.     One  day,  in  1746,  he  met 

Zinzendorf  in  a  garden  at  Herrnhaag  in  the  Wetterau. 

"  Would  you  like  to  serve  the  Saviour  in  Green- 
land ?  "  asked  the  Count. 

"  Here  am  I,  send  me,"  replied  the  young  man. 
He  had  never  thought  of  Greenland  before. 

"  But  the  matter  is  pressing,"  said  Zinzendorf, 
"  someone  is  needed  at  once." 

"  All  right,"  said  Sorensen,  "  where  is  the  difficulty  ? 


Greenland.  75 

If  you  will  get  me  a  new  pair  of  boots,  I  will  start 
to-day.  My  old  ones  are  quite  worn  out,  and  I 
have  not  another  pair." 

The  boots  were  bought ;  the  man  set  off ;  and  a 
few  weeks  later  he  arrived  at  New  Herrnhut.  His 
arrival  led  to  a  new  movement.  During  the  next 
forty-seven  years  he  acted,  not  only  as  mason, 
carpenter,  blacksmith,  and  grocer,  but  also  as 
general  manager  of  the  labour  department ;  and, 
under  his  supervision,  other  useful  measures  were 
enforced.  Old  age  pensions  were  introduced*;  a 
system  of  State  Insurance  was  devised  ;  widows 
and  orphans  were  placed  under  the  care  of  heads  of 
families  ;  and  the  Brethren  even  passed  a  law  that 
all  retailers  of  scandalous  gossip  should  be  excluded 
from  the  meetings  of  the  baptized.f 

For  these  services  to  righteousness  and  religion 
all  the  Brethren  were  popular  ;  New  Herrnhut  soon 
became  overcrowded ;  and  so  successful  was  the 
settlement  system  considered  that  two  new  settle- 
ments, further  south,  were  founded,  and  called 
Lichtenfels  (1758)  and  Lichtenau  (1774).  The  first  of 
these  names  means  Rock  of  Light,  i.e.,  Rocky  District 
enlightened  by  the  Gospel ;  the  second  means 
Meadow  of  Light,  i.e..  Meadow  enhghtened  by  the 
Gospel ;  and  thus,  by  building  these  three  settle- 
ments, the  Brethren  laid  the  foundations  of  the  Green- 
land Mission.  For  this  peculiar  method  of  work 
the  Brethren  have  often  been  both  praised  and 
blamed,  and  the  method,  let  us  frankly  admit,  had 
both  advantages  and  disadvantages.  On  the  one 
hand,  the  Eskimos  learned  to  be  good  Christian 
citizens  ;  on  the  other  hand,  they  also  learned  to  be 
too  much  dependent  on  the  missionaries  ;    and  the 

tWith  the  life  at  New  Herrnhut  Zinzendorf  was  delighted.  He 
said  that  the  place  deserved  its  name,  and  that  was  the 
highest  praise  that  he  could  give. 


76  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

consequence  was   that   in   later   years   they   became 
spoiled  children. 

Meanwhile,     one     more      of      Matthew     [Stach's 
many     adventures     must     be    recorded.     In     1747, 
taking  five  Eskimos  with  him,  he  set  off  for  a  grand 
tour.     First,  he  visited  Herrnhut  in  Saxony,  where 
two  of  the  Eskimos  died  ;    then  he  walked  with  the 
three    survivors    to    Zeist    in    Holland ;     and    then, 
sailing  on  the  Moravian  Ship,  the  Irene,  to  London, 
he  made  his  way  to  Leicester  House,  and  presented 
his  converts  to  George  11. ,  the  Prince  and  Princess  \ 
of  Wales,  and  other  members  of  the  Royal  Family.  \ 
His  visit  had  some  historical  importance.     By  means  j 
of  this  visit  Matthew  interested  the  Royal  Family  \ 
in  work  among  Eskimos ;    and  that  interest,  a  few  * 
years  later,  was  of  some  service  in  Labrador.     The| 
chief  speaker  on  this  occasion  was  the  Princess. 

"  Are  all  Greenlanders  dressed  like  that  ?  ",.  she 
began. 

"  Yes,"  said  Matthew,  "  except  that  some  wear 
reindeer  skin  instead  of  seal  skin." 

"  How  many  people  live  in  your  neighbourhood  ?  " 

"  About  a  thousand." 

"  How  do  they  live  ?  " 

"  By  catching  fish  and  seals.  Some  shoot  rein- 
deer." 

"  Come  closer,"  said  the  Princess  to  Mrs.  Stach. 
"  What  do  you  do  in  Greenland  ?  " 

"  I  look  after  the  women,"  was  the  answer. 
"  Speak  to  them  of  the  Saviour,  and  keep  a  school 
for  the  girls." 

"  How  do  the  people  amuse  themselves  ?  " 

"  The  heathen  dance  and  play  games  with  balls  ; 
but  the  converts  leave  off  these  things  of  their  own 
accord  and  amuse  themselves  by  singing." 

"  What  sort  of  songs  do  they  sing  ?  " 

"  For  the  most  part  Lutheran  hymns,  which  we 


Greenland.  77 

have   translated   into   Eskimo.     You   can   hear   the 
women  singing  when  they  gather  berries." 

For  twenty-four  years  after  this  mterview 
Matthew  Stach  laboured  patiently  in  Greenland.  He 
retired  in  1771  and  spent  his  last  years  at  Bethabara 
in  North  Carolina  ;    and  though  he  never  claimed  to 

,  be  a  great  man,   Trapp  Ellis,  the  Moravian  poet, 

'  was  surely  justified  in  saying  that 

"  The  name  of  Matthew  Stach  must  aye  endure, 
Emblazoned  with  the  saintly  and  the  pure." 


Chapter  VI. 

THE  NORTH  AMERICAN  INDIANS,  1734—1808. 

1.     Georgia  ;    the  Cherokees,  1734 — 1740. 

As  the  fiery  Count  was  returning  to  Herrnhut 
from  an  interview  with  the  Theological  Faculty  at 
Tubingen,  he  heard,  to  his  indignation,  that  the  King 
of  Saxony  had  issued  an  insulting  edict,  wherein 
His  Majesty  declared  that  the  Moravians  might 
remain  at  Herrnhut  only  as  long  as  they  behaved 
themselves  quietly.  The  Count  rose  to  the 
occasion.  In  order  to  find  a  home  for  the 
Moravians,  he  sent  his  young  and  learned 
friend,  Augustus  Gottlieb  Spangenberg,  to  London 
to  open  negotiations  there  with  the  trustees  for 
Georgia,  and  the  trustees  not  only  granted  five 
hundred  acres  of  land  at  Savannah,  but  even  guaran- 
teed religious  liberty,  and  promised  that,  in  time  of 
war,  the  Brethren  should  not  be  compelled  to  bear 
arms.  As  these  conditions  pleased  the  Count,  he  now 
dispatched  the  first  Moravian  colonists,  and  for  their 
guidance  he  wrote  a  treatise  entitled  "  Instructions 
for  the  Colony  in  Georgia.'^  In  this  treatise,  however, 
the  Count  made  no  reference  to  the  Indians.  For  the 
present  he  merely  said  that  the  Brethren  were  not  to 
dispute  with  others ;  that,  when  asked  questions,  they 
must  tell  the  simple  truth  ;  that  they  must  keep  to 
themselves  ;  and  that,  as  soon  as  possible,  he  would 
send  them  an  ordained  minister.  At  the  head  of  the 
party  was  Spangenberg.  They  landed  in  Georgia, 
went  to  Savannah  (April  17th,  1735),  and  began  to 
till  the  soil. 

But  now  the  Count  took  an  important  step 
which  prepared  the  way  for  a  mission  to  the 
Red  Indians.     As  the  Moravians  in  Georgia  would 

(78) 


The  North  American  Indians.  79 

require  their  own  ministers,  he  applied  to  Bishop 
Daniel  Ernest  Jablonsky  for  consecration  as  a 
Bishop,  and  when  Jablonsky  politely  refused,  he 
asked  him  to  consecrate  David  Nitschmann.  The 
Bishop  consented ;  the  ceremony  was  duly  per- 
formed (March  13th,  1735),  and  thus  David  Nitsch- 
mann became  the  first  Bishop  of  the  Renewed 
Moravian  Church.  He  was  not,  however,  to  officiate 
lat  home,  but  was  rather  what  we  should  call  a 
)  Colonial  Bishop,  and  generally  signed  himself 
"D.  Nitschmann,  Bishop  of  Foreign  Parts";  and 
Jablonsky  himself  distinctly  asserted  in  the  ordination 
certificate  that  thereby  he  authorised  Nitschmann  to 
officiate  in  Greenland,  in  America,  in  the  West 
Indies,  and  in  any  other  colonies  which  the 
Brethen  might  visit.  Thus  did  Zinzendorf  make 
it  clear  that  although  he  had  no  desire  to  restore 
the  Moravian  Church  in  Germany,  he  intended 
to  place  the  foreign  missions  on  a  firm 
ecclesiastical  basis.  In  Germany  the  Brethren  might 
be  suppressed  by  law ;  in  Georgia,  under  the  British 
flag,  they  would  march  freely  ahead  in  a  grand 
evangelistic  campaign  ;  and  blazing  with  zeal  for 
this  ideal,  he  dispatched  the  second  batch  of  colonists. 
The  expedition  was  of  momentous  importance.  It 
opened  a  new  campaign  in  America,  and  led  to  the 
Evangelical  Revival  in  England. 

At  the  head  of  the  party  was  Bishop  Nitschmann  Nov.  Ist 
himself ;     among  his   comrades   were    Martin    Mack       1735 
and  the   Zeisbergers  from   Zauchtenthal  in  Moravia. 
They  sailed  from  Gravesend  on  the  Simmonds,  and 
on    board    that    historic    vessel    was    John    Wesley, 
going  out  in  the  ser\'ice  of  the  S.P.G.  to  preach  the 
Gospel    to    the    Indians.     The    more    John    Wesley 
studied  the  conduct  of  the  Brethren,  the  more  con-~ 
vinced  he  became  that  they  were  the  finest  Christians 
he  had  ever  known.     They  were,  he  recorded  in  his 


80  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

journal,  the  gentlest,  bravest  folk  he  had  ever  met. 
They  helped  without  pay  in  the  working  of  the  ship  ; 
they  could  take  a  blow  without  losing  their  tempers ; 
and  when  the  ship  was  tossed  in  the  storm  they 
were  braver  than  the  sailors  themselves.  One  Sun- 
day the  gale  was  terrific ;  the  sea  poured  in  between 
the  decks ;  the  main  sail  was  torn  in  tatters ;  the 
English  passengers  screamed  with  terror;  the 
Brethren  calmly  sang  a  hymn. 

"  Were  you  not  afraid  ?  "  said  John  Wesley. 

"  I  thank  God,  no,"  replied  the  Brother. 

"  But  were  not  your  women  and  children  afraid  ?  " 

"  No,  our  women  and  children  are  not  afraid  to 
die." 

Little  did  that  Brother  know  what?  dangers  lay 
ahead.  John  Wesley  was  deeply  impressed.  With 
all  his  piety  he  still  lacked  something  that  these 
Brethren  possessed.  Never  had  he  seen  such  glorious 
confidence  in  God.  "  How  is  it  thou  hast  no  faith  ?  " 
he  asked  himself.  With  all  his  zeal  he  still  feared 
death;  and  these  men,  with  songs  of  joy  on; their 
lips,  smiled  at  the  raging  storm. 

As  soon  as  this  famous  party  had  settled  in  Georgia, 
Bishop  Nitschmann,  true  to  his  commission,  ordained 
Anthony  Seifferth  ;  a  little  later  he  ordained  Spangen- 
berg  ;  and  thus  occurred  the  Brst  Protestant  ordina- 
tions on  American  soil.  At  the  first  ordination 
Wesley  himself  was  present,  and  so  deeply  was  he 
moved  by  the  scene  that  he  felt  himself  back"  in 
the  days  of  the  Apostles,  and  half  thought  that 
Paul  the  Tentmaker,  or  Peter  the  Fisherman,  was 
presiding  at  the  ceremony. 

The  work  among  the  Indians  now  began  in  earnest. 
At  the  head  of  affairs  was  Spangenberg.  He  kept 
the  accounts,  managed  the  farms,  planned  the 
buildings,  acted  as  medical  adviser,  and  even 
gave    the    Sisters    lessons    in    cookery.        For    the 


The  North  .American  Indians.  81 

benefit  of  the  Indian  children  Hving  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood, he  built  a  school  on  an  island  in  the 
River  Savannah  ;  and  the  Cherokees  brought  their 
chief,  Toms  Tschatchi,  to  hear  "  the  great  word." 
But  this  work  among  the  Cherokees  in  Georgia  died 
an  early  death.  At  the  very  time  when  success  seemed 
imminent,  the  well-known  war  between  England  and 
Spain  broke  out  (1739) ;  and  the  Brethren,  being 
summoned  to  join  the  British  forces,  abandoned 
the  colony  and  marched  in  a  body  to  Pennsylvania. 

2.     The  Mohicans,  1740—1741. 

(a).  The  Base  of  Operations. — The  great 
Spangenberg  was  now  in  his  element.  As  long 
as  this  man  remained  at  the  head  of  affairs, 
the  Brethren  managed  their  work  in  a  masterly 
manner.  They  bought  some  land  beside  the  Lehigh 
River ;  they  stood  leg  deep  in  the  snow  and  felled 
the  trees ;  they  built  a  fine  town  and  called  it 
Bethlehem;  and  they  made  that  town  a  "  house  of 
bread "  for  all  the  preachers  in  North  America. 
The  grand  principle  now  adopted  by  Spangenberg 
was  sub-di\'ision  of  labour.  In  Bethlehem  lay  the 
commissariat  department ;  in  the  Indian  villages 
stood  the  fighting  line.  He  began  by  appealing 
to  the  virtue  of  self-sacrifice.  In  order  to  cut  down 
the  expenses  of  living,  he  asked  his  workers  to 
surrender  the  comforts  of  family  Ufe.  At  Bethlehem 
stood  two  large  houses.  In  one  Uved  all  the  Single 
Brethren  ;  in  the  other  the  famiUes,  all  the  husbands 
in  one  part,  all  the  wives  in  another,  and  all  the 
children,  under  guardians,  in  the  third.  At  Nazareth, 
only  ten  miles  away,  the  Single  Sisters  drove  their 
spinning  wheels.  For  the  sake  of  the  holy  cause  of 
the  Gospel  the  Brethren  toiled  with  brain  and  hand. 
They  built  their  own  houses  ;  they  made  their  own 
clothes  and  boots  ;    they  tilled  the  soil,  bred  cattle, 


82  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

grew  vegetables,  and  kept  hens  ;  they  sawed  their 
own  wood,  spun  their  own  yarn,  wove  their  own 
cloth,  and  baked  their  own  bread  ;  and  then,  selling 
at  the  regular  market  price  what  they  did  not 
need  for  their  own  consumption,  they  spent  the 
profits  in  the  support  of  preachers,  teachers,  and 
missionaries  to  the  Indians.  For  a  motto  the 
Brethren  took  the  words  :  "In  commune  oramus,  in 
commune  laboramus,  in  commune  patimur,  in 
commune  gaudemus,"  i.e.,  together  we  pray, 
together  we  labour,  together  we  suffer,  together  we 
rejoice.  The  motive,  however,  was  not  social,  but 
religious.  "  As  Paul,"  said  Spangenberg,  "  worked 
with  his  own  hands,  so  as  to  be  able  to  preach  the 
Gospel  without  pay,  so  we,  according  to  our  ability, 
will  do  the  same  ;  and  thus  even  a  child  of  four 
will  be  able,  by  plucking  wool,  to  serve  the  Gospel." 
For  this  cause  the  ploughman  delved  the  soil,  the 
joiner  sawed,  the  blacksmith  swung  his  hammer, 
and  the  young  men,  with  songs  on  their  lips,  felled 
trees  in  the  forest ;  for  this  cause  the  fond  mothers, 
with  tears  of  joy  in  their  eyes,  handed  over  their 
children  to  the  care  of  the  guardians,  and  thus, 
with  fingers  free  to  work,  made  shoes,  cut  patterns, 
ground  powder  for  the  chemist's  shop,  sliced  turnips, 
knitted  socks,  and  copied  invoices  and  letters.  As 
the  fireman  stoked  he  felt  as  important  "  as  if  he  were 
guarding  the  Ark  of  the  Covenant  "  ;  and  in  all 
the  labour  the  missionary  impulse  rang  like  a  clarion 
call.  The  plan  was  a  brilliant  success.  For  many 
years  the  colony  of  Bethlehem-Nazareth,  called  by 
Spangenberg  the  "  Economy,"  remained  the  centre, 
not  only  of  the. Mission  in  North  America,  but  also 
of  the  Mission  in  the  West  Indies. 

But  Spangenberg  was  more  than  a  clever  organizer. 
In  addition  to  finding  the  money  for  the  men,  he 
found    the    men    for    the    work.     He    appointed    a 


The  North  American  Indians,  88 

**  College  of  Overseers " ;  he  founded  a  Mission 
College  and  trained  the  students  ;  and  he  called  his 
college  the  School  of  Prophets,  his  men  the  Pilgrim 
Band,  and  the  whole  place  the  Saviour's  Armoury. 
No  man  had  a  cooler  head  for  figures  ;  no  man  had 
a  keener  zeal  for  missions  ;  and  no  man  attempted 
a  more  stupendous  task.  And  that  task  was  the 
conversion  of  all  the  Red  Indian  tribes  in  North 
America. 

{b).  The  Field  of  Labaur.— With  joy  the 
Brethren  beheld  the  spreading  field.  In  those 
days  Red  Indians  swarmed  on  every  hand.  In 
Dutchess  County,  New  York,  resided  the  Mohicans  ; 
in  the  Wyoming  Valley,  the  Shawanese  Indians ; 
in  New  York,  Pennsylvania,  and  the  district  south 
of  Lake  Ontario,  the  Iroquois  ;  and  in  north-west 
Pennsylvania  and  Ohio,  the  Delawares. 

At  first  sight  these  Indians  were  an  attractive 
people.  They  had  dark  brown  skins,  black  hair  and 
eyes,  high  cheek-bones,  and  beautiful  snow-white 
teeth.  They  could  run  like  deer,  scent  like  blood- 
hounds, shoot  like  Boers,  speak  like  Demosthenes, 
and  lie  like  Ananias.  In  manners  they  were 
generally  polite  ;  in  morals  pure  ;  in  battle  furious  ; 
in  revenge  implacable.  They  were  fond  of  dress  ; 
painted  their  faces  vermilion ;  and  rejoiced  in  red 
collars,  red  girdles,  red-and-blue  stockings,  corals 
and  feathers.  They  were  fond  of  tobacco,  of  rum, 
of  dancing,  and  of  dice.  They  slept  in  wigwams  ; 
lived  by  huntmg  and  fishing ;  and  were  fond  of 
flitting  from  one  v-illage  to  another. 

I  In  matters  of  health  they  showed  much  common 
sense.  As  they  lived  a  good  deal  in  the  open  air, 
they  sometimes  reached  a  good  old  age,  and  the 
only  diseases  prevalent  among  them  were  pleurisy, 
cohc,    rheumatism,    diarrhoea,    ague    and    common 


84  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

bath.  No  Indian  village  was  without  one.  It  was 
a  wooden  oven,  heated  with  red-hot  stones.  Three 
times  the  patient  sweated  ;  three  times  he  cooled 
himself  in  the  river  ;  and  then,  the  cure  complete, 
he  smoked  his  pipe  in  peace.  As  this  remedy,  how- 
ever, was  not  infallible,  the  Indians  had  often  to 
resort  to  other  devices.  For  burns  and  chilblains 
they  used  a  decoction  of  beech-leaves ;  for  boils 
a  poultice  of  Indian  flour  ;  for  rheumatism  a  mixture 
of  drugs ;  for  head-ache  and  tooth-ache,  white 
walnut  bark  ;  for  snake-bites,  the  leaf  of  the  rattle- 
snake root ;  for  ague,  the  shrubly  elder  ;  for  stomach 
disorders,  the  red  berries  of  the  winter-green  ;  for 
consumption,  the  liver-wort ;  for  fevers,  the  roots 
of  the  Virginian  Poke,  applied  to  the  hands  and  feet ; 
for  emetic  purposes,  bloodwort  and  ipecacuanha; 
and,  finally,  for  small-pox  and  many  other  com- 
plaints, petroleum  oil.  In  spite,  however,  of  these 
remedies,  the  Indians  were  not  a  long-lived  people. 
They  refused,  says  Zinzendorf,  to  wear  either  trousers 
or  hats  ;  the  exposure  brought  on  headaches,  boils, 
and  rheumatics,  and,  therefore,  they  often  grew  old 
at  forty  and  died  in  the  early  fifties.  As  their  herbs, 
of  course,  did  not  always  act,  they  had  to  summon 
the  medicine-man.  The  physician  gave  an  interesting 
performance.  In  return  for  a  fee,  paid  in  advance, 
he  declared  that  he  had  received  his  powers 
direct  from  God  in  a  dream,  and  that  the 
disease  was  caused  by  a  spirit,  who  must  be  driven 
out  into  the  desert ;  and  then,  after  prescribing  his 
medicines,  he  rattled  his  wolves'  teeth,  breathed  on 
the  patient,  squirted  juice  over  his  body,  scattered 
hot  ashes  in  the  air,  made  grimaces,  roared,  howled, 
crawled  into  an  oven,  had  the  patient  brought  to 
the  door,  and  saluted  him  with  horrible  grins. 

For  the  needs  of  the  soul  the  Indians  made  little 
provision.     They    had   no   temples,    no    priests,    no 


The  North  American  Indians.  85 

religious  books,  and  no  regular  forms  of  public 
worship.  And  yet  they  had  certain  clear  religious 
beliefs.  They  believed  that  God,  the  Great  Spirit, 
was  the  author  of  all  good  ;  that  the  devil  was  the 
cause  of  all  evil ;  that  the  soul  of  every  Indian  was 
immortal ;  that  the  Milky  Way  was  the  road  to 
Heaven  ;  that  Heaven  was  on  one  side  of  the  blue, 
and  hell  close  by  on  the  other  ;  that  the  good  would 
go  to  happy  hunting-fields,  and  that,  finally,  the 
sinners  in  hell  would  have  to  watch  the  enjo}Tnents 
of  the  saints.  On  the  way  of  salvation  opinions 
differed.  According  to  some,  the  road  to  Heaven 
was  virtue ;  according  to  others,  every  man 
must  purge  himself  by  vomiting ;  and  according 
to  others,  he  must  have  the  wickedness  driven  out 
of  him  by  sticks.  Above  all,  the  Indians  believed  in 
evil  spirits.  As  these  spirits  swarmed  like  mosquitoes, 
the  poor  Indians  had  to  take  measures  of  self-defence. 
For  this  purpose  they  used  images  named  manittoes. 
Every  Indian  had  his  manitto  ;  the  nature  of  his 
manitto  was  revealed  to  him  in  a  dream  ;  and  the 
dreamer  made  his  image  accordingly,  and  hung  it 
round  his  neck. 

(c.)  Fenimore  Cooper's  Hero. — As  soon  as  1740 
Spangenberg  had  enough  money  in  hand,  he  wrote  to 
the  Brethren  in  Europe  asking  for  volunteers ;  Christian 
Henry  Ranch  responded,  and  arrived  at  New  York ; 
and  then,  making  his  way  to  Shekomeko,  he  found 
himself  in  the  midst  of  the  Mohicans. 

He  had  come  to  a  den  of  iniquity.  Of  aU  the  Red 
Indians  of  North  America  the  Mohicans  were  the  most 
degraded.  In  time  of  war  they  were  generally 
fighting  the  Mohawks  ;  in  times  of  peace  they  were 
much  addicted  to  rum,  and,  therefore,  they  did  not 
give  Rauch  a  welcome.  At  first  they  merely  regarded 
him  as  a  fool ;  and  then,  a  little  later,  they  threatened 
to  kill  him.     The  leader  in  vice  at  Shekomeko  was 


86  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Tschoop.t  He  was  renowned,  even  among  the 
Mohicans,  as  a  drunkard  ;  he  looked,  it  was  said, 
more  like  a  bear  than  a  man ;  and  the  first  time  he 
heard  Ranch  preach  he  was  so  tipsy  that  he 
remembered  only  one  word  of  the  sermon.  The 
word  he  remembered  was  "  blood."  He  thought 
about  it,  dreamed  about  it,  wondered  what  it  could 
mean. 

"  What  a  strange  man  is  this,"  he  thought,  "  he 
looks  so  friendly  and  yet  he  talks  about  blood." 

"  Why  do  you  talk  about  blood,"  said  Tschoop, 
"  with  such  joy  in  your  heart  ?  " 

"It  is  the  blood  of  your  Creator,"  said  Ranch, 
"  who  came  to  die  for  you  and  cleanse  you  from  vour 
sin." 

"  But  how  can  blood  cleanse  from  sin  ?  " 

"  If  you  love  Him,  the  blood  will  work  upon  you." 

"  But  I  am  so  given  to  drink." 

"  If  you  get  the  blood  into  your  heart,"  said 
Ranch,  "  desire  for  drink  will  go." 

In  a  few  weeks  Tschoop  became  a  Christian, 
and  five  years  later,  at  a  conference  in  Bethlehem, 
he  told  the  story  of  his  conversion. 

"Brethren,"  he  said,  "I  have  been  a  heathen, 
and  have  grown  old  among  the  heathen.  Therefore, 
I  know  how  heathen  think.  Once  a  preacher  came 
and  began  to  explain  to  us  that  there  was  a  God. 
We  answered  :  '  Dost  thou  think  us  so  ignorant  as 
not  to  know  that  ?  Go  back  to  the  place  from 
which  thou  camest ! '  Then,  again,  another  preacher 
came  and  began  to  teach  us  and  to  say  :  '  You 
must  not  steal,  nor  lie,  nor  get  drunk.'  W^e 
answered  :  '  Thou  fool,  dost  thou  think  we  don't 
know  that  ?  Learn  first  thyself,  and  then  teach 
the  people  to  whom  thou  belongest  to  leave  off  these 


■fTsfihoop  is  said  to  be  the  original  of  Chingachgook  in  Fenimore 
Cooper's  "  The  La«t  of  the  Mohicans." 


The  North  American  Indians.  87 

things  ;  for  who  steals,  or  lies,  or  who  is  more  drunken 
than  thine  own  people?'" 

As  Tschoop  was  not  more  explicit,  we  are  not 
quite  sure  what  preachers  he  meant.  They  were 
certainly  Englishmen  ;  they  were  probably  Anglican 
clergymen ;  and  the  most  reasonable  conjecture 
is  that  they  had  been  sent  to  Shekomeko,  either  by 
the  "  Society  for  the  Advancement  of  Civilisation 
and  Christianity,"  or  by  the  "  New  England  Society." 

But  Ranch,  having  sat  at  the  feet  of  the  Count, 
came  with  a  different  tale. 

"  He  came  into  my  tent,"  said  Tschoop,  "sat  down 
beside  me,  and  spoke  nearly  as  follows  :  '  I  come  to 
you  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  of  Heaven  and  Earth. 
He  sends  to  let  you  know  that  He  will  make  you  happy 
and  deliver  you  from  the  misery  in  which  you  lie  at 
present.  To  this  end  He  became  a  man,  gave  His 
life  a  ransom  for  man,  and  shed  His  Blood  for  him.' 
When  he  had  finished  his  discourse  he  lay 
down  upon  a  board,  fatigued  by  the  journey,  and 
fell  into  a  sound  sleep.  '  What  kind  of  man  is  this  ?  ' 
thought  I.  '  There  he  lies  and  sleeps.  I  might 
kill  him  and  throw  him  out  into  the  wood,  and  who 
would  regard  it  ?  But  this  gives  him  no  concern.' 
I  could  not  forget  his  words.  They  constantly 
recurred  to  my  mind.  Even  when  I  was  asleep  I 
dreamed  of  the  blood  which  Christ  shed  for  us.  I 
found  this  to  be  something  different  from  what 
I  had  ever  heard,  and  I  interpreted  Christian  Henry's 
words  to  the  other  Indians.  Thus,  through  the 
grace  of  God,  an  awakening  took  place  among  us. 
I  say,  therefore,  Brethren,  preach  Christ  our  Saviour, 
His  sufferings  and  death,  if  you  wish  your  words  to 
gain  entrance  among  the  heathen." 

For  many  years  this  tale  continued  to  be  told  in 
Mora\ian  circles  as  an  illustration  of  the  right 
way  to  preach  the  Gospel :  the  great  Spangenberg 


88  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

himself  referred  to  Rauch  as  a  model,  and  a  hundred 
years  later  a  British  poet  enshrined  the  moral  in  verse. 

Glad  Tidings. 

We  asked  an  Indian  Brother,  a  warrior  of  old. 
How  first  among  his  people  the  Glad  Tidings  had 

been  told  ? 
How  first  the  Morning  Star  arose  on  their  long 

heathen    night, 
Till  souls  who  sat  in  darkness  were  rejoicing  in 

the  light  ? 
And  he  answered:  "Many  a  summer f  has  come 

and  gone  since  then  ; 
Yet  well  I  can  remember — I  can  see  it  all  again. 
A  teacher  came  among  us,  from  the  country  of  your 

birth, 
And  told  us  of  the  Uving  God,  Who  made  the 

heaven  and  earth  ; 
But  we  asked  if  he  had  been  a  fool,  or  thought 

that  we  were  so, 
For  who  among  our  sons  did  not  the  one  Great 

Spirit  know  ? 
So  he  left  us,  and  another  told  us  much  of  sin 

and  shame. 
And    how    for    sinners    was    prepared    a   lake    of 

quenchless  flame  ; 
But   we   bade   him   teach   these  things   at  home, 

among  the  pale-faced  men, 
And    if  they   learned   the   lesson   right,    we,    too, 

would  listen  then. 
At  last  another  stranger  came,  of  calm  and  gentle 

mien, 
And  eyes  whose  light  seemed  borrowed  from  yon 

blue  the  clouds  between  ; 

fA  poetic  licence  ;  it  was  only  five  years.     Tschoop  was  converted 
in  1740,  and  told  his  story  in  1746. 


The  North  American  Indians.  89 

Still  in  my  dreams  I  hear  his  voice,  his  smile  I 

still  can  see, 
Though  many  a  summer  he  has  sleptf   beneath 

the  elder  tree. 
He  told  us  of  a  Mighty  One,  the  Lord  of  Earth 

and  Sky, 
Who  left  His  glory  in  the  heavens,  for  men  to 

bleed  and  die  ; 
Who  loved  poor  Indian  sinners  still,  and  longed  to 

gain  their  love, 
And   be  their  Saviour  here  and  in  His  Father's 

house  above. 
And  when  his  tale  was  ended,  "  My  friends,"  he 

gently  said, 
"  I  am  weary  with  my  journey,  and  would  fain  lay 

down  my  head." 
So  beside  our  spears  and  arrows  he  laid  him  down 

to  rest, 
And  slept  as  sweetly  as  the  babe  upon  its  mother's 

breast. 
Then  we  looked  upon  each  other,  and  I  whispered, 

"  This  is  new. 
Yes,  we  have  heard  glad  tidings,  and  the  sleeper 

knows  Him  true  ; 
He  knows  he  has  a  Friend  above,  or  would  he 

slumber  here, 
With  men  of  war  around  him,  and  their  war-whoop 

in  his  ear  ? 
So  we  told  him  on  the  morrow  that  he  need  not 

journey  on, 
But  stay  and  tell  us  further  of  that  living,  dying  One ; 
And  thus  we  heard   of  Jesus  first,   and  felt  the 

wondrous  power 
Which    makes    His    people    willing    in    His    own 

accepted  hour." 

fAnother   poetic    licence.     Rauch    lived   another   eighteen  years, 
and  died  at  Old  Carmel  in  Jamaica  (1763).     See  Chapter  IV. 


90  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

The  conversion  of  Tschoop  created  a  great 
sensation.  As  Tschoop  had  the  courage  to  defy  his 
mother-in-law,  who  abused  him  for  becoming  a 
Christian,  he  was  soon  regarded  as  a  hero ;  and 
so  inspiring  was  his  example  that  Shekomeko 
became  the  scene  of  a  revival.  The  wildest 
Indians  became  the  most  model  converts ;  the 
most  drunken  sots  became  the  most  staunch 
abstainers  ;  four  other  Brethren  came  to  the  aid 
of  Rauch,  and  Shekomeko  became  such  a  model 
village  that  Conrad  Weisser,  the  official  agent  for  the 
Province  of  Pennsylvania,  after  visiting  Shekomeko 
in  person,  declared  that  the  Indian  converts  reminded 
him  of  the  Primitive  Christians. 

3.     The  Count's  Adventures,  1741 — 1743. 

At  this  point  Count  Zinzendorf  arrived  on  the 
scene.  As  Pennsylvania  was  then  the  home  of  many 
quarrelling  sects,  he  imagined  that  it  was  the  very 
place  to  introduce  his  ideals  of  church  unity  ;  and 
then,  after  a  vain  attempt  to  form  the  sects  into  one 
grand  "  Congregation  of  the  Spirit,"  he  turned  his 
attention  to  the  Indian  Mission,  and  undertook  three 
journeys  of  exploration.  His  ideas  about  the 
Indians  were  rather  peculiar.  For  reasons  at  which 
most  scholars  will  probably  smile,  Count  Zinzendorf 
firmly  believed — exactly  like  William  Penn,  the 
Quaker — that  the  Red  Indians  of  North  America 
were  the  Lost  Ten  Tribes  of  Israel.  Had  they  not, 
he  contended,  the  pale  yellow  skin  described  in  the 
Book  of  Deuteronomy  ?  Did  they  not,  as  God  had 
predicted,  suffer  from  jaundice  ?■!•  Had  they  not, 
also,  very  small  families  ?  *     Did  they  not  call  their 

tDeut.  xxxm,,  22.  "The  Lord  shall  smite  thee  with  mildew." 
The  Hebrew  word  means  "  yellow,"  and  the  translation  i:i 
Luther's  version  is  Gelbsucht,  i.e..  Jaundice. 

*Deut.  xxvri.,  62.     "  And  ye  shall  be  left  few  in  number." 


The  North  American  Indians.  91 

enemies  Assaroni,  i.e.,  of  course,  Assyrians  ?  Did 
they  not  use  some  Hebrew  words,  such  as  "achsa" 
and  "anas";  practise  certain  well-known  Jewish 
customs,  and,  like  the  Jews  of  old,  hand 
on  their  family  feuds  from  one  generation  to 
another  ? 

On  his  first  journey  (July,  1742)  he  visited  the 
Iroquois.  As  the  Iroquois  were  then  a  very  powerful 
tribe — consisting  of  six  nations,  i.e.,  the  Mohawks, 
Oneidas,  Onondagas,  Senecas,  Tuscaroras,  and 
Cayugas — Count  Zinzendorf  was  fully  convinced  that 
if  he  could  arrange  definite  terms  with  them  he 
would  be  laying  a  solid  basis  for  future  missionary 
work,  and,  therefore,  accompanied  by  Peter  Bohler, 
Frederick  Martin,  and  his  own  daughter  Benigna, 
he  now  set  off  across  the  Blue  Mountains  and  met 
the  six  Iroquois  Kings  at  the  little  village  of  Tulpe- 
hocken.t  For  two  reasons  Tulpehocken  may  be 
regarded  as  a  place  of  great  importance.  In  the 
first  place,  Zinzendorf  wrote  there  his  beautiful 
"  Evening  Prayer  "  : — 

Jesus,  in  that  calm  light, 

Dost  Thou  not  watch  to-night  ? 
Moves  no  one  in  yon  sky 

Before  the  face  so  bright 
Of  Christ  the  Lamb  on  high  ? 

Ah  yes,  ye  Cherubim, 
And  ye,  ye  Seraphim, 

Ye  all  keep  watch  'fore  Him. 

Exalted  angels,  pray. 

Draw  nigh  to  me  and  say 
How  I  can  fill  my  place, 

Be  on  my  guard  alway, 


tin  Berki  County,  Pennsylvania. 


92  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

That  so,  by  God's  own  grace, 
Each  thought  and  deed  of  mine 

Shall  be  of  Christ's  design, 
Inspired   by   love   Divine. 

Thy  Prayers  did  never  cease  ! 

For  when  for  Thee  no  peace 
Was  found  in  house  or  field. 

And  work  without  release 
No  time  for  prayer  did  yield, 

Still,  while  the  red  sun  shone, 
Or  while  calm  night  came  on. 

Thou  didst  keep  watch  alone. 

Now  I  my  soul  commend 

To  Thee,  Redeemer,  Friend, 
That,  cleansed  and  sanctified, 

I  may  unto  the  end 
Still  at  my  post  abide. 

For  only  through  Thy  blood 
Can  I  have  courage  good 

To  do  that  which  I  would. 

In  the  second  place,  Tulpehocken  is  important 
because  there  Zinzendorf  concluded  a  treaty  with 
the  Iroquois.  In  response  to  his  request  that 
Moravian  Missionaries  might  preach  undisturbed 
to  the  Six  Nations,  he  was  handed  by  the  six  Kings 
a  fathom  of  one  hundred  and  eighty-six  white  beads. 
As  white  was  regarded  as  a  symbol  of  peace  and  good- 
will, the  fathom  was  in  reality  a  "  Safe  Conduct," 
and  Zinzendorf  handed  it  over  to  Spangenberg  to 
be  used  in  all  future  negotiations. 

On  his  second  journey  (August,  1742)  he  visited 
Shekomeko,  conversed  with  Tschoop,  the  convert, 
appointed  an  elder,  an  exhorter,  and  a  sexton,  formed 
the  other  converts  into  a  Helpers'  Conference,  and 


The  North  American  Indians.  93 

thus  organized  the  first  Moravian  Indian  congrega- 
tion in  North  America. 

On  his  third  journey  (September,  1742)  he  had  a 
double     purpose.       In     order     to     strengthen    the 
good    feehng    between    the    Mora^-ian    Church    and 
the    Iroquois,    he    first    visited     Shikeliimey,    King 
of    the    Oneidas,    at    Shamokin,     and     gained    the 
King's   friendship   by   presenting  him  with  a  shirt; 
and     then,     hearing     that     the     Shawanese     knew 
nothing     of     the     Christian     rehgion,     he    paid     a 
visit   to   them   in   the    Wyoming    Valley.     But   the 
Shawanese    did    not    give    him    a    cordial    welcome. 
Instead  of  receiving  him  as  a  prophet  of  God,  they 
regarded  him  as  a  thief,  and  informed  him  that  he 
had  come,  not,  as  he  pretended,  to  preach  the  Gospel, 
but  to  rob  them  of  their  silver  mines.     The  Count 
was  bitterly  disappointed..    He  had  no  fewer  than 
three    escapes    from    sudden    death.     On    the    first 
occasion,    as    he    sat    in    his    tent,    two    puff-adders 
crawled  over  his  legs  and  buried  themselves  in  his 
papers  ;    on  the  second,  wliile  fording  a  river,  he  fell 
backwards  from  his  horse  and  was  nearly  drowned  ; 
and  on  the  third,  the  Shawanese  formed  a  plot  to 
scalp  him.     For  ten  days  he  Hved  entirely  on  boiled 
beans  ;    then,  after  consultmg  the  Lot,  he  decided 
that  a  Mission  to  the  Shawanese  would  be  hopeless, 
and  thus  he  returned  to  Bethlehem  a  sadder  and 
wiser  man.     We  must  not  regard  his  journeys  as  mere 
adventures.     He  had  now  arrived  at  certain  definite 
conclusions.     At  the  close  of  his  \dsit  to  Pennsylvania, 
he  called  a  meeting  of  the  Brethren,  and  laid  down  a 
plan  of  campaign  for  the  future.     His  friend  Spangen- 
berg  was  to   act   as   General  Manager ;     Bethlehem 
was  still  to   be  the  head-quarters   of  the  Mission  ; 
and  while  the  work  at  Shekomeko  must  be  continued, 
a  systematic   attempt   must  be  made  to  preach  the 
Gospel  to  the  Iroquois. 


94  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

4.     The  Mission  to  the  Iroquois, 
1743—1765. 

For  twenty-two  years  after  Zinzendorf's  departure, 
the  Brethren,  with  Bethlehem  as  their  headquarters, 
made  a  systematic  attempt  to  convert  the  Six  Nations 
or  Iroquois.  In  this  work  the  chief  leader  was 
David  Zeisberger,  known  as  the  Apostle  to  the 
Indians,  and  the  strange  and  tragic  feature  of  the 
story  is,  that  while  the  Brethren,  in  this  campaign, 
took  every  reasonable  precaution,  they  found  them- 
selves faced  by  a  series  of  obstacles  which  baffled 
the  wit  of  man  to  overcome.  Each  move  was 
carefully  and  skilfully  planned  ;  each  move  promised 
brilliant  success ;  and  each  move,  in  the  most 
marvellous    fashion,    led    to    dire    disaster. 

(1)  The  first  disaster  occurred  at  Shekomeko. 
For  certain  obvious  financial  reasons,  the  whisky 
merchants  of  the  State  of  New  York  decided  that, 
as  Shekomeko  was  a  teetotal  village,  the  sooner  the 
mission  could  be  destroyed  the  better ;  and, 
therefore,  to  this  end,  they  now  accused  the 
Brethren  of  being  Papists  in  disguise,  and  also 
of  being  in  league  with  the  French.  The  case  came 
up  before  the  New  York  Assembly,  and  the  New 
York  Assembly  swiftly  responded.  First,  they 
enacted  an  edict  (1742)  that  "  all  vagrant  preachers, 
Moravians,  and  disguised  Papists  "  should  be  for- 
bidden to  preach  to  the  Indians  unless  they  first 
took  the  oaths  of  allegiance  and  abjuration  ;  then 
they  enacted  that  all  Moravians  should  forthwith 
leave  the  Province;  and  then  three  officials  arrived 
at  Shekomeko  and  promptly  expelled  the  Brethren. 
By  means,  therefore,  of  this  astute  device,  the  first 
Moravian  Mission  to  the  Indians  was  almost  com- 
pletely destroyed.  For  the  present  the  Brethren 
had  to  act  on  the  defensive.     In  order  to  find  a  new 


The  North  American  Indians.  95 

home  for  their  converts  they  built  a  settlement  on  1745 
the  Mahony,  named  Gnadenhiitten ;  thither  the 
Indian  converts  gathered,  not  only  from  Shekomeko, 
but  also  from  Pachgatgoch,  Wechquadnach,  and 
Meniolagomeka ;  and  during  the  next  ten  years 
Gnadenhiitten  was  a  happy  harbour  of  refuge. 

(2)  The     next     trouble     arose     from     a     foolish      1745 
Mayor.        In    strict    accordance    with    Zinzendorf's 
instructions,  the  Brethren  began  their  great  Mission  to 

the  Iroquois  by  sending  two  messengers,  Zeisberger 
and  Post,  to  negotiate  with  the  King  of  the  Mohawks 
at  Canajoharie.  There  the  King  gave  the  messengers 
a  courteous  welcome,  and  even  promised  to  teach 
Zeisberger  the  Mohawk  language ;  and  then,  just 
when  the  two  envoys  imagined  that  they  had 
achieved  a  triumph,  the  Mayor  of  Albany,  hearing 
that  they  were  French  spies,  had  them  both  arrested 
and  sent  to  New  York.  Once  more,  as  in  Frederick 
Martin's  case,  the  whole  trouble  was  connected  with 
the  oath.  In  reply  to  several  questions  submitted 
by  Governor  Clinton,  both  Zeisberger  and  Post 
declared  that  they  were  loyal  subjects  of  George  III.  ; 
nevertheless,  they  both  refused  to  take  the  oath  of 
allegiance,  and,  therefore,  while  they  were  set  at 
liberty,  they  were  warned  to  appear  no  more  at 
Canajoharie.  For  this  reason,  therefore,  the  Brethren 
abandoned  Zinzendorf's  proposed  Mission  to  the 
Mohawks. 

(3)  The  next  trouble  was  of  a  different  nature.     1746-9 
In  those  days  the  chief  Indian  village  in  Pennsylvania 

was  Shamokin,  now  known  as  Sunbury.  For  three 
years  (1746-9)  Zeisberger  and  Martin  Mack  made 
Shamokin  their  headquarters  ;  the  former,  aided  by 
King  Shikellimey,  prepared  an  Iroquois  dictionary; 
and  then  the  Brethren  had  to  abandon  their  cause, 
not  because  they  were  hindered  by  Government 
officials,  but  because  the  Indians  were  so  drunken 


y 


96  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

and.  so  addicted  to  brawling  that  orderly  Christian 
life  became  impossible. 

(4)  The  next  trouble  arose  from  the  Seven  Years' 
War.  Let  us  here,  however,  notice  a  point  of 
fundamental  importance.  For  the  explanation  we 
must  turn  to  London.  At  the  special  request  of 
Zinzendorf,  who  had  heard  of  the  Brethren's  legal 
troubles,  the  British  Government  passed  an  Act 
:  of  Parliament  (1749,  22nd  Geo.  II.,  cap.  30)  whereby 
^  the  Moravian  Church  acquired  a  new  legal  status, 
\  not  only  in  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  but  also  in 
1  all  the  Colonies.  The  whole  situation  of  the  Brethren 
1^  was  now  altered.  In  the  past  the  law  had  been  an 
obstacle ;  now  the  law  became  their  best  friend. 
In  the  past  they  had  been  required  to  take  the 
oath  and  to  bear  arms  ;  now,  by  the  new  Act,"f 
they  were  relieved  from  each  of  those  obligations. 
In  the  past  they  had  been  forbidden  to  preach  in 
the  State  of  New  York ;  now,  by  the  new  Act,  the 
road  was  open,  and  therefore,  seizing  their  oppor- 
tunity, the  Brethren  resolved  to  build  a  station  at 
the  Iroquois  capital,  Onondaga.  For  strategic  pur- 
poses Onondaga  was  a  place  of  the  highest  import- 
ance. There,  a  few  miles  south  of  Lake  Ontario, 
the  Six  Nations  made  their  headquarters.  There, 
in  a  statelv  wooden  palace,  resided  the  mighty 
Ganassatico,  King  of  the  Onondagas  ;  there  he  was 
supposed  to  reign,  not  only  over  his  own  tribe,  but  over 
all  the  Six  Nations  ;  there  the  other  five  kings  did 
him  obeisance  ;  there  assembled  the  Iroquois  Grand 
Council ;  and  there,  at  last,  the  Brethren  decided  to 
found  a  Mission  Station.  The  first  task,  however,  was 
to  obtain  permission  from  the  Grand  Council.  For 
this  purpose  two  Brethren — David  Zeisberger  and 
Bishop  Cammerhof — now  set  off  from  Bethlehem  to 

tFor  a  full  description  of  this  Act.  see  "  History  of  the  Moravian 
Church,"  p.  343. 


The  North  American  Indians.  97 

Onondaga  (1750).  The  journey  was  divided  into  1750 
three  stages.  For  ten  days  they  went  by  canoe  up 
the  Susquehannah,  speeding  through  the  wooded 
hills  of  the  Alleghanies,  by  graceful  flowers  of  the 
tulip-tree,  round  beetling  bluffs,  through  roaring 
surges,  and  past  groups  of  mottled  rattlesnakes 
basking  in  the  sun  ;  then,  after  leaving  the  river 
at  Tiaga,  they  pushed  on  foot  through  a  dark 
forest  swarming  with  mosquitoes  ;  and,  then, 
skirting  the  Eastern  shore  of  Lake  Cayuga,  they  rode 
on  horseback  to  Onondaga.  The  solemn  and  critical 
proceedings  now  began.  At  the  very  time  when  the 
Brethren  arrived,  the  Grand  Council  was  in  full 
session  ;  the  two  envoys  were  summoned  at  once 
to  attend  ;  and  Cammerhof,  aided  by  his  colleague  as 
interpreter,  rose  to  state  his  mission. 

He  did  not  come  altogether  as  a  stranger.  On 
April  15th,  1748,  he  had  been  adopted  a  member  of 
the  Six  Nations.  His  Indian  name  was  Gallichuro, 
i.e.,  '*  good  message."  His  colleague  Zeisberger, 
known  as  Ganousserachi,  i.e.,  "  on  the  pumpkin,"  had 
been  made  a  member  of  the  Turtle  Tribe  by  King 
Shikellimey,  and  Cammerhof,  therefore,  in  his  address, 
spoke  not  as  an  European,  but  as  an  "  Indian." 

"  Brothers,"  he  said,  "  Gallichuro  and  Ganous- 
serachi have  come  to  visit  you.  They  have  been 
sent  by  their  Brothers  to  give  you  a  message.  But 
first  they  will  rest  a  few  days  from  the  fatigues  of 
their  long  journey,  and  then  they  will  meet  you 
and  tell  you  why  they  have  come."  The  Council 
House  rang  with  applause  ;  Cammerhof  passed  round 
the  pipe  of  peace,  and  the  next  meeting  was  fixed  for 
Midsummer  Day. 

At  this  point,  however,  there  occurred  an  un- 
expected delay.  During  the  next  few  weeks  most  of 
the  Iroquois  Council  were  so  drunk  that  any  further 
deliberations    were    impossible.     Instead,    however, 


98  A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

of  giving  way  to  despair,  the  two  Brethren  seized 
their  opportunity  to  pay  a  visit  to  the  Senecas, 
who  Hved  on  the  other  side  of  Lake  Cayuga.  But 
here  the  situation  was  even  worse.  In  the  first 
village  which  the  Brethren  visited  all  the  men  were 
drunk  ;  in  the  second  both  men  and  women  were 
drunk,  and  Zeisberger  had  to  use  his  fists  to  keep 
the  women  at  a  distance.  Nor  was  even  this  the 
climax  of  evil.  For  some  nights  Cammerhof, 
smitten  with  fever,  lay  at  the  point  of  death ; 
Zeisberger,  seizing  a  kettle,  went  to  fetch  some 
water,  and  the  Indians  knocked  the  kettle  out  of 
his  hands.  With  sad  hearts  the  two  envoys  returned 
to  Onondaga.  By  this  time  all  the  members  of  the 
Council  were  sober ;  the  required  permission  to 
preach  the  Gospel  was  granted,  and  thus,  at  last, 
the  Mission  to  the  Iroquois  began  in  earnest.  Once 
more,  however,  the  Brethren  took  the  most  elaborate 
precautions.  In  order  to  make  perfectly  certain 
that  he  had  the  full  authority  of  the  Moravian 
Church  behind  him,  Zeisberger  paid  a  visit  to 
Herrnhut  (1751) ;  there  he  was  appointed  by  Zinzendorf 
"  Perpetual  Missionary  to  the  Indians,"  and  thus, 
when  he  settled  down  at  Onondaga,  he  had  the 
satisfactory  feeling  that  he  would  be  among  the 
Indians  for  life.  For  three  years  (1752-5)  he  was  quite 
successful.  In  spite  of  his  teetotal  habits,  he  gained 
the  love  and  confidence  of  the  people.  As  long  as 
they  were  sober  he  lived  in  the  town,  and  when  they 
were  drunk  he  retired  to  a  hut  in  the  forest.  The 
Grand  Council  assembled  in  his  town  house  ;  the 
State  papers  were  kept  in  his  study  ;  the  Sachems 
instructed  him  in  the  mysteries  of  wampum.  With 
the  aid  of  Frey  and  other  assistants  he  built  a  small 
Church  ;  a  small  Christian  congregation  was  formed  ; 
and  Onondaga,  so  Zeisberger  hoped,  would  soon 
become  the  Jerusalem  of  the  Six  Nations. 


The  North  American  Indians.  99 

And  then,  at  one  fell  blow,  his  work  was  shattered. 
At  the  very  time  when  the  cause  at  Onondaga  was 
most  promising,  there  broke  out  the  great  war 
(1755-63)  between  England  and  France;  most  of  the 
Indians  in  Pennsylvania,  incited  thereto  by  French 
priests,  who  told  them  that  Christ  had  been  bom 
at  Paris,  and  that  he  had  been  crucified  by  English- 
men, espoused  the  cause  of  France  with  fury,  shot 
down  English  labourers  at  the  plough,  split  open 
farmers'  heads  by  the  kitchen  fire,  and  even  scalped 
women  and  children  ;  and  therefore,  in  their  dire 
distress,  Spangenberg  and  his  colleagues  at  Bethlehem 
summoned  Zeisberger  to  their  assistance.  No  man 
understood  the  Indians  better  ;  no  man  would  be 
better  able  to  keep  the  few  Indians  loyal  to  the 
British  flag.  For  this  simple  reason,  therefore, 
Zeisberger  bade  farewell  to  Onondaga. 

But  even  he  could  not  charm  the  French  Indians.  Nov.  24th, 
As  a  company  of  sixteen  Bretliren  and  Sisters,  one  1755 
dark  November  evening,  were  sitting  together  round 
the  fire  in  the  Pilgrim  House  at  Gnadenhutten  on 
the  Mahony — listening  to  the  moaning  wind  and 
speaking  about  the  coming  joys  of  Christmas — 
some  of  the  dogs  in  the  yard  began  to  bark ;  Joachim 
Senseman,  the  overseer,  feeling  anxious,  struck  a 
light,  left  the  house,  and  went  to  see  whether  the 
church-door  was  shut ;  and  then,  soon  after  he  had 
left,  the  Brethren  heard  other  footsteps  in  the 
yard.  Without  suspecting  any  danger,  Martin 
Nitschmann  opened  the  door.  There,  with  faces 
painted  red  and  rifles  raised,  stood  a  dozen  Shawanese 
French  Indians.  The  war-whoop  rang ;  the  rifles 
flashed ;  and  Martin  Nitschmann  fell  dead.  The 
firing  continued.'  The  room  was  filled  with  smoke  ; 
five  more  fell  dead,  and  the  rest  rushed  for  the 
garret.  As  Mrs.  Martin  Nitschmann  tried  to  ascend, 
something  caused  her  to  stumble,  and  falling  back- 


100        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

wards,  she  was  taken  prisoner.  With  the  single 
exception  of  George  Partsch,  who  managed  to  escape 
by  a  window,  the  rest  now,  after  barricading  the  door 
with  bedsteads,  lay  huddled  in  the  garret.  In 
vain  the  Indians  tried  to  break  down  the  defence. 
For  a  few  moments  there  was  a  mysterious  silence  ; 
then  faint  wisps  of  smoke  stole  from  the  room  below 
into  the  garret,  and  in  less  than  five  minutes  the 
whole  building  was  in  flames.  With  the  joy  of 
demons,  the  Indians  placed  a  sentinel  at  the  house 
door ;  and  then,  retiring  a  little  distance,  stood 
beholding  the  tragedy.  There,  in  the  garret,  lay 
four  men,  three  women,  and  a  child,  and  the  screams 
of  the  little  child  rang  out  above  the  roar  of  the 
flames. 

"  You  have  deceived  our  brethren,"  shouted  the 
Indians,  "  let  us  now  see  whether  your  Saviour 
will  help  you." 

The  question  had  a  strange  answer.  For  a  few 
moments  the  sentinel  left  his  post ;  Joseph  Sturgis 
jumped  from  the  window  and  fled,  and  Mrs.  Partsch, 
who  followed  his  example,  escaped  to  a  neighbouring 
hill.  There,  unperceived  by  the  Indians,  she  stood 
and  watched  the  last  scene  of  the  tragedy.  As  the 
sentinel  had  not  yet  returned,  George  Fabricius  now 
jumped  from  the  window,  but,  as  he  made  his  way 
to  the  woods,  the  Indians  saw  him,  rushed  upon  him 
in  a  body,  scalped  him  down  to  the  eyes,  and  left 
him  rolling  in  his  own  blood.  By  this  time  only  five 
were  left  in  the  garret,  and  Mrs.  Partsch,  from  her 
post  on  the  hill,  could  not  only  see  but  hear.  As 
the  flames  lapped  round  her,  Mrs.  Senseman  sat  on 
the  edge  of  her  bedstead,  and,  calm  to  the  bitter 
end,  she  testified  her  faith  in  her  Redeemer. 

"  It  is  well,  dear  Saviour,"  she  said,  "  it  is  well. 
This  is  no  more  than  I  expected."  With  these 
triumphant    words    on    her    lips,    Mrs.    Senseman 


The  North  American  Indians.  101 

breathed  her  last.  All  five  in  the  garret  were  burnt 
to  ashes,  and  a  few  minutes  later  the  building  crashed 
to  the  ground.  The  last  hours  of  Gnadenhiitten 
had  now  arrived.  In  order  to  complete  their  work, 
the  Indians  set  fire  to  the  other  buildings ; 
all  the  converts  who  could  do  so  fled  in  terror  to 
Bethlehem ;  and  there  the  redoubtable  Spangenberg 
took  measures  to  meet  the  situation. 

On  him  the  news  of  the  tragedy  produced  a 
wonderful  effect.  At  an  early  hour  the  following 
morning  he  called  a  meeting  of  the  congregation,  told 
the  story  of  the  massacre,  and  then,  acting  as  a  loyal 
British  citizen,  prepared  to  put  Bethlehem  in  a  state 
of  defence.  For  this  purpose  he  siu-rounded  the  town 
with  barricades,  erected  block-houses,  appointed 
sentinels,  ordered  in  guns  and  ammunition  from 
New  York,  and  even  provided  the  women  with 
paving-stones  to  hurl  on  the  heads  of  besiegers. 
The  result  was  splendid.  By  means  of  Spangenberg's 
energy,  Bethlehem  became  a  strong  City  of  Refuge  ; 
the  Indian  converts  lived  in  a  building  known  as 
the  "  Indian  House ; "  and  acting  on  Spangenberg's 
advice,  Benjamin  Franklin  actually  built  a  fort, 
named  Fort  Allen,  on  the  ruined  site  of  Gnadenhiitten. 
And  that  was  the  strange  state  of  the  Mission  till 
the  close  of  the  Seven  Years'  War  (1763). 

But  even  the  famous  Peace  of  Paris  did  not  bring 
perfect  peace  to  Pennsylvania.  In  spite  of  the 
fact  that  their  Allies,  the  French,  had  been  com-  1763*5 
pletely  defeated,  many  Indians  in  Pennsylvania  still 
cherished  ideals  of  independence.  For  another  two 
years,  therefore,  the  Brethren  lived  in  the  midst 
of  bloodshed.  As  the  leading  rebel  was  an 
Indian  Chief  named  Pontiac,  the  war  is  generally 
known  as  the  Pontiac  War ;  and  once  again  the 
Moravian  converts  were  in  serious  danger.  At  the 
time  when  the  Pontiac  War  broke  out,  some  of  the 


102        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

converts  were  living  at  the  little  village  of  Nain, 
not  far  from  Bethlehem,  and  now  the  Brethren  had 
to  take  measures  to  prevent  these  converts  from 
being  massacred.  With  this  intent,  they  appealed 
once  more  to  the  Governor  ;  a  British  officer  duly 
arrived  at  Nain;  and  during  the  war  the  converts 
were  sheltered,  first  at  Philadelphia,  and  then  on 
Province  Island,  on  the  Delaware  River.  Thus, 
then,  did  the  Mission  to  the  Iroquois  die  an  untimely 
death.  Let  us  not  make  any  mistake  about  the 
cause.  At  every  stage  the  Brethren's  failure  was 
due,  not  to  their  own  incompetence,  but  to  cir- 
cumstances over  which  they  had  no  control.  Why 
did  the  Brethren  abandon  Shekomeko  ?  Because 
they  were  driven  out  by  whisky-sellers.  Why  did 
they  abandon  the  Mission  to  the  Mohawks  ?  Because 
the  Mayor  of  Albany  expelled  them.  Why  did  they 
abandon  Onondaga  ?  Because,  when  the  Seven 
Years'  War  broke  out,  Zeisberger  was  needed  at 
Bethlehem.  Why  did  they  abandon  Gnadenhiitten  ? 
Because  the  station  was  destroyed  by  French 
Indians.  Why  did  they  abandon  Nain  ?  Because, 
when  the  Pontiac  War  broke  out,  the  converts  there 
were  in  danger  of  being  massacred.  Why,  in  a  word, 
was  the  Mission  to  the  Iroquois  a  failure  ?  Because 
Pennsylvania  was  the  seat  of  almost  incessant  war. 
At  the  close  of  twenty-two  years  of  labour,  there 
were  only  one  hundred  and  seventy  converts. 

5.     The  Mission  to  the  Delawares, 
1765—1778. 

As  soon  as  peace  was  firmly  established,  the 
Brethren  concentrated  their  energies  on  a  great 
Mission  to  the  Delawares.  In  this  Mission  they 
endeavoured,  not  merely  to  preach  to  a  few,  but  to 
convert  a  whole  nation,  and  during  the  next  twenty- 
three  years,  i.e.,  from  the  close  of  the  Pontiac  War 


The  North  American  Indians.  103 

down  to  the  outbreak  of  the  War  of  Independence, 
Zeisberger  showed  his  abilities,  not  merely  as  a 
preacher,  but  as  a  builder  and  organizer.  We 
have  come  to  the  brightest  part  of  his  career.  At  the 
very  outset  of  this  new  era  of  peace,  the  Brethren  at 
Bethlehem  realised  fully  that  a  golden  opportunity  had 
arrived,  and  Zeisberger  and  his  colleagues  received 
elaborate  official  instructions.  The  Indian  languages 
were  to  be  carefully  studied  ;  native  assistants  were 
to  be  trained  ;  the  Indians  were  to  be  taught  to 
read  and  write  ;  the  most  important  parts  of  the 
Bible  were  to  be  translated  into  Delaware ;  and  all 
the  converts  were  to  be  taught  the  duties  of  Christian 
citizenship.  Let  us  now  see  how  David  Zeisberger 
carried  out  these  instructions.  His  method  was  an 
adaptation  of  the  Moravian  settlement  system  : — 

(1)  The  first  settlement  was  for  the  benefit  of  the  17$5 
Iroquois  converts  already  gained.  For  this  purpose 
the  Brethren  selected  a  village  named  Machi- 
wishilusing,  on  the  east  side  of  the  Susquehannah. 
There  (1765)  Zeisberger  built  a  settlement  and  named 
it  Friedenshiitten  ("  Tents  of  Peace  ")  ;  and  there 
he  endeavoured  to  organize  what  we  should  call  a 
model  v-illage.  His  settlement  took  the  form  of  one 
long  street.  In  the  middle  stood  the  Church  on  one 
side  and  the  missionaries'  house  on  the  other.  The 
converts  lived  in  twenty-nine  houses  and  thirteen 
wigwams  ;  behind  each  house  lay  a  garden  ;  behind 
the  gardens  there  were  corn-fields,  and  the  settle- 
ment was  surrounded  by  a  paUsade.  The  new  settle- 
ment soon  acquired  a  great  reputation.  Instead  of 
merely  hunting  and  fishing,  the  Indians  now  devoted 
their  energies  to  agriculture  and  commerce ;  by 
means  of  their  steady  industry  they  increased  the 
value  of  the  property  ;  and  both  the  Assembly  of 
Pennsylvania  and  a  few  generous  bankers  encouraged 
them   by    sending    small  donations.      For  the   first 


104        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

time,  therefore,  the  Indians  were  learning  to  be 
good  farmers  and  traders.  Some  tilled  their  small 
holdings;  others  sold  butter,  sugar,  corn,  and  pork; 
and  others  made  canoes.  The  harder  they  worked, 
the  happier  they  seemed  to  be  ;  and  all  day  long, 
says  Zeisberger  himself,  they  could  be  heard  singing 
for  joy.  For  the  children,  of  course,  there  was  a 
small  day-school,  and  a  band  of  women,  armed  with 
brooms,  kept  the  long  street  clean.  At  Church,  the 
Indians  were  much  impressed  by  Zeisberger's  preach- 
ing. "  It  often  happens  while  I  preach,"  he  said, 
"  that  they  tremble  with  emotion  and  shake  with 
fear,  until  consciousness  is  nearly  gone  and  they 
seem  to  be  on  the  point  of  fainting."  For  two  years 
Friedenshiitten  was  the  centre  of  a  great  revival ; 
one  hundred  and  eighty-six  converts  were  added ; 
and  so  successful  was  the  experiment  that  the 
Brethren  now  decided  to  apply  the  same  methods  to 
the  Delawares. 
1767  (2)     At  the  special  request  of  the  Delawares  them- 

selves, Zeisberger  now  took  up  his  abode  at 
Goshgoschunk,  on  the  Alleghany ;  the  members 
of  the  Town  Council  were  summoned,  and  once  again, 
as  at  Onondaga,  Zeisberger  solemnly  announced 
his  purpose.  We  have  come  to  the  scene  of  Shussele's 
picture,  "  The  Power  of  the  Gospel."  But  the 
picture  does  not  give  a  correct  impression.  In  the 
picture  the  scene  is  a  forest  glade  ;  in  reality,  the 
incident  occurred  in  the  Council  Chamber.  In 
another  sense,  too,  the  picture  is  misleading.  The 
scene  must  not  be  regarded  as  typical.  On  that 
occasion  Zeisberger  was  acting,  not  exactly  as  a 
preacher,  but  rather  as  an  envoy  stating  his  purpose  ; 
and  the  issue  of  the  whole  Mission  depended  on  what 
sort  of  impression  he  could  make.  At  Goshgoschunk 
the  Indians  were  specially  wicked,  and  Zeisberger 
had  been  warned  that  they  would  not  scruple  to 


The  North  American  Indians.  105 

kill  him.  He  had  never  been  in  such  danger  before. 
In  the  centre  burned  the  watch-fire.  Around  it 
squatted  the  Indians  on  the  floor,  the  men  on  one 
side  and  the  women  on  the  other ;  and  among 
the  men  were  warriors  who  had  played  their  part 
twelve  years  before  in  the  massacre  at  Gnadenhiitten. 
The  speaker  rose ;  all  eyes  were  fixed  upon  him  ; 
and  in  the  dim  and  ruddy  light  those  eyes  had  an 
evil  gleam. 

"  My  friends,"  began  Zeisberger,  "  I  have  come 
to  bring  you  great  words  and  glad  tidings,  words 
from  our  God,  tidings  of  your  Redeemer  and  of  our 
Redeemer.  We  have  told  these  things  at  Friedens- 
hiitten.  They  have  received  them ;  they  are 
happy  ;  they  thank  the  Saviour  that  he  has  brought 
them  from  darkness  into  light;  and  we  bring  the 
peace  of  God  to  you." 

The  speaker  paused.  The  silence  was  breathless. 
For  anji:hing  Zeisberger  knew  to  the  contrary,  a 
tomahawk  might,  at  any  moment,  cleave  his  skuU 
in  twain.  There  he  stood,  with  a  smile  on  his  face, 
reading  the  minds  of  his  audience.  In  the  eyes  of 
some  he  saw  the  lust  of  blood  ;  in  those  of  others 
the  tears  of  repentance.  "  Never  before,"  he  said 
afterwards,  "  did  I  see  so  clearly  painted  in  the  faces 
of  the  Indians  both  the  darkness  of  hell  and  the 
world-subduing  power  of  the  Gospel."  On  this 
occasion  Zeisberger  excelled  himself.  By  this  time 
he  had  fully  mastered  all  the  subtleties  of  the 
Delaware  language  ;  all  the  Indians  admired  oratorical 
grace ;  and  Zeisberger,  by  his  eloquence,  carried  the 
meeting  by  storm.  "  It  is  true,"  the  red-skins 
shouted,   "  that  is  the  way  to  happiness." 

But  Zeisberger's  hardest  fight  was  still  to  come. 
For   two    years    he    made    a    systematic    endeavour    1768-70 
to  establish  at   Goshgoschunk  a   settlement   similar 
to    that    at    Friedenshiitten.     The    local    Delaware 


106        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Council  sanctioned  the  Mission,  the  Sunday  services 
were  crowded,  and  Zeisberger,  with  the  consent  of 
the  Council,  issued  a  regulation  that  no  spirits  should 
be  sold  in  the  village.  His  success,  however,  was 
only  superficial.  According  to  his  own  statement, 
he  was  now  in  the  very  stronghold  of  Satan.  There, 
at  Goshgoschunk,  he  said,  Satan  himself  was  wor- 
shipped ;  there  he  had,  so  Zeisberger  firmly  believed, 
endowed  the  sorcerers  with  supernatural  powers ; 
and  those  sorcerers  appeared  to  be  able,  not  only 
to  kill  without  knife  or  poison,  but  even  to  spread 
epidemics,  sail  through  the  air  at  night,  put  the 
inhabitants  to  sleep,  and  then  rob  them  of  their 
property.  Nor  was  this  the  worst  of  the  case.  In 
addition  to  terrifying  the  people,  the  sorcerers  now 
maligned  the  missionaries,  and  attributed  every 
disaster  to  their  presence.  In  order  to  strengthen 
their  own  infernal  powers  they  gorged  on  pork ; 
then  mysterious  messages  passed  around ;  and  the 
burden  of  all  the  messages  was  that  as  the  missionaries 
caused  disease,  they  should  forthwith  be  put  to  death. 
Finally,  the  sorcerers  introduced  casks  of  rum ; 
some  of  the  converts  themselves  began  to  drink  ; 
and  Zeisberger,  in  despair,  resolved  to  abandon 
Goshgoschunk  and  seek  some  other  place  more  free 
from  temptation. 

1770  (3)     The    third    station    was    on    the    borders    of 

Ohio.  In  response  to  the  invitation  of  a  Delaware 
chieftain  named  Glikkikan,  Zeisberger  took  some  land 
on  the  Beaver  River,  and  there  he  built  another  settle- 
ment, and  named  it  Friedenstadt. 

1772  (4)     The  fourth  station  was  in  Ohio  itself,  and  here 

Zeisberger  achieved  his  most  brilliant  success.  The 
scene  was  Gekelemukpechunck,  the  Delaware  capital, 
situated  on  the  Tuscarawas  River.  There  Zeisberger 
was  royally  welcomed  by  Nctawetwes  himself.  King 
of  the  Delawares  ;    there,  in  the  Delaware  Coimcil 


The  North  American  Indians.  107 

House,  he  preached  the  first  Protestant  sermon  in 
Ohio ;  there  he  was  granted  by  the  Grand  Council 
a  tract  of  land  eighty  miles  square;  and  there,  on 
the  left  bank  of  the  Tuscarawas,  he  built  his  beautiful 
garden  city  named  Schonbrunn,  or  Beautiful  Spring. 
The  site  was  a  fertile  valley.  At  the  time  when 
Zeisberger  first  arrived  on  the  scene,  the  sides  of  the 
valley  were  studded  with  oaks,  sycamores,  maples, 
cedars,  walnut  and  chestnut  trees,  laurels  and  wild 
flowers  ;  and  now,  after  a  few  months,  chiefly  as 
the  result  of  Indian  labour,  they  M'ere  not  only 
covered  with  potatoes,  parsnips,  and  beans,  but  also 
with  strawberries,  gooseberries,  raspberries  and  other 
garden  fruits.  The  method  of  government  was 
partly  ecclesiastical  and  partly  democratic.  At  the 
head  of  affairs  there  was  a  Governing  Board, 
consisting,  not  only  of  the  missionaries,  but 
also  of  the  native  assistants ;  and  all  affairs  of  special 
importance  were  submitted  to  a  pubhc  meeting  of 
the  citizens.  Nor  was  even  this  the  climax.  At  one 
of  these  public  meetings  the  following  stringent 
regulations  were  passed  : — 

1.  We  will  know  only  the  one  true  God. 

2.  We  will  rest  on  the  Lord's  Day,  and  attend 

pubhc   service. 

3.  We  will  honour  father  and  mother,  and  take 

care  of  them  in  old  age. 

4.  No  one  shall  live  at  Schonbrunn  without  the 

permission  of  the  missionaries  and  their 
assistants. 

5.  We  will   have   nothing   to   do   with   thieves, 

murderers,   whoremongers,   adulterers,   or 
cowards. 

6.  We  will  not  take  part  in  dances,  sacrifices, 

heathenish    festivals,    or    games. 

7.  We  will  use  no  witchcraft  when  hunting. 


108        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

8.  We  will  renounce  and  abhor  all  lies,  tricks,  and 

deceits  of  Satan. 

9.  We  will  obey  our  teachers  and  helpers. 

10.  We  will  not  scold,  nor  beat  one  another,  nor 

tell  lies. 

11.  Whoever  injures  the  property  of  his  neighbour 

shall  make  restitution. 

12.  No  man  shall  have  more  than  one  wife,  and 

no  woman  more  than  one  husband. 

13.  No  intoxicating  liquor  shall  be  admitted. 

14.  No    one    shall   contract   debts    with    traders 

without  permission  of  the  elders, 

15.  Whoever  goes   hunting,   or  a  journey,   shall 

inform  the  minister  and  stewards. 

16.  Young  people  shall  not   marry   without    the 

consent  of  the  minister  and  their  parents. 

17.  Each   person   must   help   freely   in   building 

fences  or  doing  any  other  work  for  the 
public  good. 

18.  Each   must   also   provide   corn   to   entertain 

strangers,    and    sugar    for    the    Church 
Lovefeasts. 

For  many  years  Schonbrunn  was  regarded  as  a 
model ;  and  other  small  towns,  on  similar  lines,  were 
built  at  Gnadenhiitten,  on  the  Tuscarawas  (1772), 
Lichtenau,  "Meadow  of  Light"  (1776),  on  the 
Muskingum,  and  Salem  (1780),  higher  up  the 
Tuscarawas.  British  citizens  came  to  view  and 
admire ;  and  Colonel  Morgan,  an  Indian  Agent, 
declared  that  the  Indians  in  Zeisberger's  settlements 
were  now  not  only  thoroughly  civilised,  but  even 
set  an  example  for  whites  to  follow.  Meanwhile, 
however,  Zeisberger  himself  laid  the  main  stress  on 
the  Gospel.  Of  all  the  services,  the  most  impressive 
was  that  held  in  the  cemetery  on  Easter  Sunday 


The  North  American  Indians.  109 

morning.  As  the  sun  rose  above  the  Blue  Mountains 
and  the  mists  dissolved,  Zeisberger  read  out  the 
Moravian  Confession  of  Faith;  a  trained  choir  led 
the  responses  ;  and  the  Easter  hjTnn,  sung  in  the 
Delaware  language,  aroused  the  woodland  birds. 
For  all  these  services  to  civilisation  and  religion, 
Zeisberger  never  consented  to  receive  one  penny  of 
pay.  In  the  morning,  with  gun  on  his  shoulder,  he 
went  to  the  woods  for  his  dinner  ;  in  the  afternoon 
he  inspected  the  farms  and  workshops ;  in  the 
evening    he    pursued    his    linguistic  studies. 

He  had  still  another  ambition  to  achieve.  The 
more  closely  he  studied  the  Indian  character,  the 
more  con\inced  he  became  that  the  Indians,  as  a 
whole,  would  never  rise  to  great  moral  heights  unless 
they  were  entirely  removed  from  the  evil  influence 
of  whites  ;  and,  therefore,  he  now  conceived  the 
design  of  forming  the  whole  of  Ohio  into  a  Christian 
Indian  State.  In  this  design  he  was  supported,  not 
only  by  Netawetwes,  King  of  the  Delawares,  but  also 
by  a  certain  White  Eyes,  a  famous  chief  and  coun- 
cillor. Netawetwes  was  now  a  pathetic  figure. 
He  was,  it  is  said,  one  hundred  and  twenty  years 
old  ;  he  desired  before  he  died  to  see  the  Delawares 
a  Christian  nation  ;  and,  having  heard  that  there 
were  various  churches,  each  of  which,  so  he  was  told, 
claimed  to  be  the  true  Church,  he  actually  proposed 
to  sail  to  England,  interview  George  III.  at  St. 
James's  Palace,  and  thereby  solve  the  problem  for 
himself.  "  Let  us  accept  the  word  of  God,"  he  said 
to  the  chief  of  the  Wolf  Tribe,  "  and  then  leave  it  to 
our  children  as  a  last  Will  and  Testament."  The 
case  of  White  Eyes  was  still  more  striking.  At  a 
meeting  of  the  Grand  Council  he  proposed  a  definite 
State  religion.  "  I  want  my  people,"  he  said  "  to 
embrace  the  religion  which  is  taught  by  the  white 
teachers.     We  shall  never  be  happy  until  we  arc 


110        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Christians."  The  schemes  of  Zeisberger  now  took 
definite  form.  Ohio  was  to  be  an  Indian  State, 
and  the  State  Church  would  be  the  Moravian  Church. 
But  such  a  design  could  not  be  carried  out  without 
the  sanction  of  the  British  Government.  With  the 
approval,  therefore,  of  Netawetwes,  Zeisberger  now 
suggested  that  White  Eyes  should  go  to  England 
and  arrange  a  definite  treaty.  Let  the  Delawares, 
he  said,  have  their  territory  clearly  defined  ;  let  their 
land,  by  Act  of  Parliament,  be  secured  to  them  for 
ever  ;  let  there  be  a  legally  recognised  State  Church  ; 
and  let  there  also  be  an  understanding  that  no  blood 
should  be  shed  on  Delaware  soil.  Thus  alone  could 
the  Delaware  nation  play  its  true  part  in  the  world. 
For  some  years  Zeisberger  really  believed  that  this 
ideal  would  be  realised  ;  and,  in  a  sermon  on  the 
text,  "  The  glory  of  the  Lord  is  risen  upon  thee," 
he  a  iinounced  that  the  day  of  salvation  was  close  at 
hand.  He  was  now  at  the  brightest  part  of  his 
career  ;  he  had  won  the  allegiance  of  the  whole 
Delaware  nation  ;  and  now,  in  imagination,  he  saw 
the  Christian  Indian  State  of  Ohio.  For  what  really 
happened,  however,  he  was  not  prepared. 

6.     Paradise  Lost,  1777—1808. 

The  cause  was  the  American  War  of  Independence. 
As  soon  as  the  tide  of  war  reached  Ohio,  Zeisberger 
added  the  following  clause  to  his  list  of  Rules 
and  Regulations,  "  We  will  not  go  to  war, 
and  will  not  buy  anything  of  warriors  taken 
in  war ;  "  and  not  knowing  or  caring  much  about 
the  points  at  issue,  both  he  and  his  colleagues 
endeavoured  to  preserve  an  attitude  of  strict 
neutrality.  "  If  the  Delawares  go  to  war,"  he  said, 
"  we  are  lost."  To  that  policy  Zeisberger  held  firm. 
Each  side  appealed  to  him  for  aid  ;  each  side  urged 
him   to   raise   a   Delaware   Army ;     and   each   side 


The  North  American  Indians.  Ill 

received  a  stem  refusal.  Let  two  examples  illustrate 
the  point.  The  first  appeal  came  from  the  British 
side.  At  an  early  period  of  the  war  a  Wyandot 
Indian  brought  Zeisberger  a  letter,  written,  he 
declared,  by  the  British  Governor,  urging  Zeisberger 
to  arm  his  converts,  place  himself  at  their  head  as 
general,  drive  the  rebels  out  of  Ohio,  and  bring  their 
scalps  to  Detroit.  Zeisberger  threw  the  letter  into 
the  fire.  Next  year  (1778)  there  came  an  appeal 
from  the  American  side.  In  September  the  American 
General,  Mcintosh,  appealed  to  the  Delaware  Council 
for  captains  and  warriors,  and  Zeisberger,  alarmed 
for  his  converts'  safety,  asked  the  Moravian  Board 
at  Bethlehem  to  appeal  to  Congress  and  have  an  Act 
passed  forbidding  American  officers  to  enlist  Christian 
Indians  in  military  service.  For  this  policy  he  had 
one  simple  reason.  He  desired  to  shield  the  converts 
from  temptation.  As  long  as  he  had  them  under 
his  personal  care,  he  could  trust  them  to  keep  un- 
spotted from  the  world  ;  in  the  army  they  would 
learn  to  pillage,  to  drink  and  to  gamble,  and  thus  his 
hopes  of  a  Christian  State  would  be  destroyed  for 
ever.  The  result  may  be  imagined.  The  more  he 
endeavoured  to  be  neutral,  the  more  he  exposed  him- 
self to  unjust  suspicion.  Each  side  had  appealed  to 
him  in  vain  ;  each  side,  therefore,  regarded  him  as 
a  secret  ally  of  the  other  ;  and  each  side,  treating 
him  as  an  enemy,  attacked  his  settlements  with 
;Steel  and  fire. 

For  the  first  disaster  some  readers  may  consider 
Zeisberger  to  blame.  In  the  year  1781  a  band  of  1781 
Indians,  in  the  British  Service,  made  a  sudden  attack 
on  Lichtenau  ;  Zeisberger,  in  his  alarm,  appealed  to 
the  American  general,  Mcintosh,  for  protection,  and 
the  British  authorities,  hearing  of  this  appeal,  very 
naturally  concluded  that  Zeisberger  was  on  the 
American  side.     At  last,  they  firmly  believed,  he  had 


112        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

shown  his  hand.  He  himself,  they  said,  was  clearly 
a  rebel ;  in  his  settlements  he  was  hatching  treason  ; 
and,  therefore,  for  the  sake  of  the  Empire,  those 
settlements  must  be  destroyed.  The  chosen  man 
was  Captain  Elliott.  His  conduct  was  characteristi- 
cally British.  In  the  interests  of  his  country  he 
was  thorough  ;  in  the  interests  of  humanity  he  was 
considerate.  The  chief  scene  of  his  activities  was 
Gnadenhiitten.  There  Zeisberger  and  his  colleagues 
had  recently  assembled  most  of  their  converts,  and 
there,  in  due  course,  Captain  Elliott,  with  about 
three  hundred  Indians,  made  his  appearance.  He 
had  now  a  stern  duty  to  do,  and,  so  far  as  I  can 
discover,  he  did  it  like  a  gentleman.  First,  he 
informed  the  Christian  Indians  that  they  would 
have  to  decamp  ;  then,  to  be  on  the  safe  side,  he 
set  fire  to  the  premises  ;  then  he  made  a  thorough 
search  for  arms  and  ammunition  ;  and  then,  seizing 
Zeisberger  and  his  three  colleagues — Heckewelder, 
Senseman,  and  Mack — and  also  a  number  of  Indian 
converts,  he  carried  off  the  whole  party  across  the 
Black  Swamp  to  Detroit.  To  Zeisberger  this  was 
the  saddest  of  all  his  journeys.  Behind  him 
Gnadenhiitten  was  in  ashes  ;  Schonbrunn  and  Salem 
had  passed  into  the  hands  of  hostile  Indians ; 
and  his  dream  of  a  Christian  Indian  nation  had  now 
become  a  mockery.  At  Detroit,  however,  he  received 
a  pleasant  surprise.  The  chief  officer,  Major  Peyster, 
was  a  just  man.  In  spite  of  the  fact  that  he  had 
sent  Captain  Elliott,  he  had  no  ill-will  towards  the 
missionaries  and  no  desire  to  destroy  their  work  ; 
and  now,  after  giving  them  a  fair  trial,  he  not  only 
pronounced  them  "  Not  Guilty,"  but  also  supplied 
them  with  clothing  from  the  public  stores,  consulted 
with  the  commander  at  Quebec  with  regard 
to  their  future  abode,  and  finally  issued  a  passport 
authorising      Zeisberger,     Senseman,     Mack,     and 


The  North  American  Indians.  113 


Heckewelder,  to  found  a  new  station  at  Sandusky.- 

But  now  (1782)  occurred  a  still  more  terrible  1782 
tragedy.  As  the  refugees  at  Sandusky  were 
in  some  danger  of  starvation,  about  one  hundred 
and  fifty  Indian  converts  set  off  to  reap  some 
com  at  Gnadenhiitten ;  and,  just  when  they 
had  completed  their  labours,  an  American  Colonel, 
David  WilHamson,  arrived,  with  a  few  troops, 
upon  the  scene.  For  reasons  which  have  never 
been  fully  explained,  but  which,  to  him,  must  have 
seemed  satisfactory,  Colonel  Wilhamson  was  con- 
vinced that  all  those  converts  were  British  spies,  and 
after  dividing  them  into  two  lots,  placing  the  men  in 
one  bam  and  the  women  and  children  in  another, 
he  asked  his  own  men  to  say  whether  he  should 
send  them  to  Pittsburg  or  have  them  executed  on 
the  spot.  With  a  few  exceptions,  the  soldiers  voted 
for  death. 

"  Let's  burn  them  alive,"  said  some. 

"  No  !  No,"  said  others,  "  let's  shoot  them  and 
scalp  them." 

"  No,"  said  a  third  party,  "  brain  them  like  oxen." 

By  a  large  majority  the  last  suggestion  was  carried. 
At  an  early  hour  the  following  morning  (March  8th, 
1782),  the  soldiers  flung  open  the  barn-doors,  and 
asked  the  prisoners  if  they  were  prepared  to  die. 

"  We  have  committed  our  souls  to  God,"  was  the 
answer,  "  and  trust  to  Him  to  give  us  the  needful 
courage." 

The  Blood-Bath  of  Gnadenhutten  now  began.  For 
the  second  time  the  soldiers  divided  the  prey.  In 
one  slaughter-house  they  placed  the  men  ;  in  anather 
the  w^omen  and  children ;  and  the  men  had  the 
honour  of  being  the  first  victims.  The  first  blow 
was  struck  by  a  private  from  Pennsylvania.  With 
a  cooper's  mallet  in  his  right  hand  he  seized  an 
aged  convert  by  the  hair,  struck  one  fatal  blow,  and 


114        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

removed  the  scalp  with  a  knife ;  and  then,  warming 
to  his  work,  he  shattered  fourteen  Indian  skulls 
and  spilled  the  brains  on  the  floor.  "  My  arm  is 
tired,"  he  said  to  a  mate  ;  "  it  is  your  turn  now, 
but  I  think  I  have  done  pretty  well." 

His  mates  continued  his  work.  For  several  hours 
the  mallets  rose  and  fell ;  the  floor  of  the  house  was 
now  littered  with  corpses,  and  only  one  youth, 
who  was  merely  stunned,  managed  to  make  his 
escape.  As  soon  as  the  soldiers  had  finished  with 
the  men,  they  turned  to  the  women  and  children. 
One  small  boy,  however,  made  his  escape,  and 
joining  the  youth  already  mentioned,  in  the  forest, 
was  able  to  tell  the  story  at  Sandusky.  According 
to  evidence  collected  later,  the  total  number  slain 
that  day  was  ninety  ;  among  these  was  Glikkikan, 
Zeisberger's  friend  ;  and  the  list  included  six  native 
assistants,  twenty-four  women,  and  twenty-two  little 
children.  As  soon  as  the  soldiers  had  finished  their 
work,  they  set  fire  to  the  barns,  and  then,  with 
scalps  hung  round  their  hips,  hurried  off  to  seek 
more  victims  at  Schonbrunn.  For  many  years  the 
bones  of  the  martyrs  lay  exposed  to  sun  and  rain  ; 
then  pious  hands  gave  them  decent  burial,  and  now 
the  scene  of  the  massacre  is  marked  by  a  plain 
monument  in  stone. 

The  death-tick  was  tapping  at  the  wall  of  the 
Indian  Mission.  At  last — but  only  for  a  brief 
period — Zeisberger  gave  way  to  despair.  His  prime 
had  been  a  garden  of  roses  ;  his  old  age  was  a  crown 
of  thorns.  He  had  now  only  one  consolation  left. 
As  soon  as  the  War  of  American  Independence  was 
over,  both  the  British  and  American  Governments, 
anxious  to  atone  for  sins  of  the  past,  made  him  huge 
grants  of  land,  and. thus  assisted,  he  founded  new 
settlements  at  New  Gnadenhiitten  on  the  Huron  (1782), 
Pilgerruh  (1786),    New  Salem  (1787)  on  the  Huron, 


The  North  American  Indians.  115 

New  Fairfield  in  Canada  West  (1792),  and  Goshen 
(1798),  seven  miles  north-west  of  Gnadenhiitten.  In 
one  important  respect,  however,  these  settlements  were 
entirely  different  from  the  old  ones  in  the  Tuscarawas 
Valley.  Formerly  his  settlements  had  been  inhabited 
by  Indians  only ;  now  white  traders  swarmed  on  every 
hand ;  and  as  the  old  rules  could  no  longer  be 
enforced,  many  of  Zeisberger's  converts  took  to  drink. 
For  this  reason  three  of  his  new  settlements — New 
Gnadenhiitten,  Pilgerruh,  and  New  Salem — had  to 
be  abandoned,  and  now  only  two  stations — New 
Fairfield  and  Goshen — remained.  And  yet  Zeisbcrger 
did  not  abandon  hope.  In  spite  of  the  fact  that 
Ohio  was  now  being  thickly  populated  by  whites, 
he  still  cherished  his  old  ideal  of  a  Christian  Indian 
State,  and  beUe^^ng  that  Christian  literature  would  be 
required,  he  prepared  the  following  useful  volumes  : — 

(1)  A  Delaware  and  English  Spelling  Book,  with 

an  appendix  containing  the  Lord's  Prayer, 
the  Ten  Commandments,  some  Scripture 
passages,  and  a  Liturgy. 

(2)  A   Delaware  Hymn  Book,   with  the   Easter, 

Baptismal,  and  Burial  Litanies. 

(3)  Sermons      to      Children,      translated      from 

Spangenberg. 

(4)  Spangenberg's  "  Bodily  Care  of  Children." 

(5)  Samuel  Lieberkiihn's  "  Harmony  of  the  Four 

Gospels." 

(6)  A    grammatical    treatise    on    the    Delaware 

conjugations. 

(7)  A  lexicon,  in  seven  volumes,  of  the  German 

and  Onondaga  languages. 

(8)  A  Delaware  Grammar. 

(9)  An  Onondaga  Grammar. 
(10)     A  German-Delaware  Lexicon. 


116        A  History  or  Moravian  Missions. 

The  first  five  of  these  volumes  were  printed  and 
pubUshed ;  the  manuscript  of  the  rest  has  been 
preserved,  partly  in  the  library  of  Harvard  University, 
and  partly  in  that  of  the  Philadelphia  Philosophical 
Society,  and  some  day  they  may  prove  of  service  to 
students  of  Indian  history. 

The  last  scene  in  Zeisberger's  life  was  one  of  pathos 

'  and  beauty.     For  the  "  brown    Brethren  "   he   had 

lived,  and  now,  among  the  "  brown  Brethren,"  he 

laid  him  down  to  die.     As  the  old  man  lay  on  his 

Nov.  17th,  death-bed  at  Goshen  (November  17th,   1808^,    free 

1808      from   pain,   fully   conscious,   and   yet   too  weak  to 

speak,    the   church-bell   was   tolled.     His   converts, 

in  response  to  the  signal,  quietly  entered  the  room, 

and  seeing  that  the  end  was  near,  and  using  the 

very  words  that   he   had   taught  them,   they   sang 

of  Jesus,  the  Prince  of  Peace,  and  of  the  Church 

Triumphant. 


Chapter  VII. 

THE   SOUTH  AMERICAN   INDIANS, 

1785—1808. 

As  the  Moravians  had  a  great  many  friends  in 
Holland — where,  in  fact,  they  had  built  a  settle- 
menF'named  Heerendyke,  designed  by  Christian 
David  himself,  and  intended  to  be  a  second  head- 
quarters for  the  Missions — and  as,  moreover,  all  the 
Dutch  Colonies,  especially  Surinam  and  Demerara, 
were  in  need  of  good  workmen,  Count  Zinzendorf  now 
conceived  the  project  of  founding  a  Mission  in 
South  America,  first  among  the  negro  slaves,  and 
secondly  among  the  Indians  who  roamed  the  woods 
and  savannahs.  With  this  design,  therefore,  he 
sent  his  friend  Spangenberg  to  Amsterdam  ;  there  ^-^34 
Spangenberg  stated  the  case  to  the  Dutch  Trading 
Company;  and  as  the  Company  promised  religious 
liberty,  and  also  immunity  from  the  oath  and  from 
bearing  arms,  the  Count  soon  (1735)  sent  out  a  band  of 
men.  For  two  disagreeable  reasons,  however,  the  first 
part  of  his  design  was  frustrated.  First,  the  planters 
in  Demerara  denounced  the  Brethren  as  spies ; 
secondly,  the  clergy  in  Paramaribo  accused  them  of 
immorality;  and  the  consequence  was  that,  leaving 
the  Mission  to  the  Negroes,  the  Brethren  pushed  their 
way  south  through  a  hundred  miles  of  jungle  and 
swamp,  built  a  station  named  Pilgerhut  (1740),  on 
the  Wironje  River,  and  thereby  opened  the  Mission 
to  the  Arawack  Indians. | 

For  twelve  years  (1748-60)  this  Mission  was  under 
the  management  of  Solomon  Schumann,  called  by 
Zinzendorf  the  "  Apostle  to  the  Arawacks,"  and  in 
three  ways  this  man  was  regarded  as  a  model.     First, 


tKobinson  Cnuoe's  man,  Friday,  was  an  Arawack  Indian. 
117 


118        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

he  bravely  doffed  his  coat,  chopped  down  trees,  dug 
his  own  garden,  and  thereby  taught  the  Indians  the 
vahie  of  work  ;  secondly,  he  was  a  splendid  linguist, 
and  not  only  translated  into  Arawack  St.  John's  Gospel, 
St.  John's  Epistles,  and  the  Passion  History,  but  also 
prepared  an  Arawack  Dictionary  and  Grammar ; 
and  thirdly,  being  a  disciple  of  Zinzendorf,  he  intro- 
duced to  the  Arawack  Indians  Zinzendorf's  "  Blood 
and  Wounds  Theology,"  and,  like  Israel  in  St.  Thomas 
and  the  Brethren  in  Greenland,  laid  all  the  stress  in 
his  preaching,  not  on  any  scheme  of  dogmatic  theology, 
but  on  the  details  of  the  Passion  History.  For  this 
policy  Schumann  could  give  good  reasons.  According 
to  the  evidence  of  all  the  missionaries,  the  Arawack 
Indians  lived  in  a  state  of  constant  terror.  In 
theory  they  believed  in  a  Divine  Creator,  named 
Kururuman  ;  in  reality,  they  feared  Jaachi,  the  devil, 
who  sent  diseases ;  and  Schumann  conscientiously 
believed  that  the  only  way  to  destroy  this  terror  was 
to  paint  a  vivid  picture  of  the  Suffering  Christ. 
For  this  purpose  he  had  in  his  room  a  large  picture 
of  Christ  on  the  Cross.  That  Christ,  he  told  his 
visitors,  had  come  from  heaven  to  destroy  the  works 
of  the  devil,  and  all  those  who  trusted  in  Him  need 
not  fear  death  any  more.  Let  one  example  illustrate 
Schumann's  methods.  On  one  occasion  he  was 
visited  by  a  chief  from  the  Orinoco  ;  the  scene  of 
the  interview  was  Schumann's  study  ;  and  Schumann, 
after  sketching  the  life  of  Christ,  pointed  to  the  large 
picture  on  the  wall. 

"  Look  there,"  he  said,  "  that  is  your  Creator, 
who  shed  His  Blood  that  you  might  be  saved." 

"  Have  you  ever  seen  Him  ?  "  asked  the  chief. 

"  Yes,"  said  Schumann,  "  I  prayed  to  Him,  and 
in  spirit  He  showed  me  His  wounds." 

"  Will  you  ever  see  Him  again  ?  " 

"  Yes,  with  these  very  eyes  of  mine." 


The  South  American  Indians.  119 

"  When  ?  " 

"  When  I  go  to  Him." 

"  ^^^len  win  you  go  to  Him  ?  " 

"  When  He  calls  me  to  Himself  from  the  earth." 

"  Will  you  not  die  then  ?  " 

"  Xo  one  who  believes  his  Redeemer  dies." 

For  a  while  this  poUcy  seemed  to  succeed.  As 
long  as  Schumann  himself  remained  on  the  spot, 
his  ovm  noble  example  seemed  sufficient,  and  no 
special  ethical  teaching  appeared  to  be  required  ; 
in  due  time  two  more  stations  were  founded,  Sharon 
on  the  Saramakka  (1755)  and  Ephraim  on  the 
Corentyne  (1757)  ;  and  many  of  the  converts  wrote 
beautiful  letters  to  Herrnhut  declaring  how  deeply 
they  loved  the  Redeemer,  and  how  they  longed  to 
see  His  face,  fall  down  at  His  feet,  and  kiss  His 
wounds.  At  the  third  station  Dahne,  the 
missionary,  had  his  well-known  adventure  with  the 
serpent.  "As  I  was  going  to  bed  one  evening," 
he  says,  "  a  fairly  large  snake  dropped  on  me  from 
a  lath  on  the  roof,  coiled  itself  two  or  three  times 
round  my  neck  and  head,  and  began  to  squeeze 
harder  and  harder.  I  was  sure  my  end  had  come. 
In  order  that  my  Brethren  might  not  suspect  that  I 
had  been  killed  by  Indians,  I  seized  some  chalk  and 
wTote  on  the  table :  'A  serpent  has  killed  me.'f  At 
this  moment,  however,  I  thought  of  Christ's  promise  : 
'  They  shall  take  up  serpents '  (Mark  xvi.,  18).  I 
seized  the  beast,  threw  it  from  me,  and  fell  asleep 
in  my  hammock." 

For  three  tragic   reasons,   however,   this   Mission 

to  the  Arawack  Indians  came  to  an  untimely  end  : — 

(1)     First,  in  1765,  the  negro  slaves  of  Surinam 

organized  a  great  rebellion  ;    to  them  all  Christians 

tit  has  often  been  stated  that  Dahne  was  bitten  by  the  serpent. 
In  his  own  narrative,  however,  there  is  no  mention  of  a  bite, 
and  the  reptile,  to  judge  from  its  conduct,  was  probably  a  boa- 
constrictor. 


120        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

were  alike ;  and,  therefore,  besides  destroying 
plantations,  they  burned  to  the  ground  the  two  chief 
Moravian  stations,  Pilgerhut  and  Sharon. 

.  (2)  Secondly,  many  of  the  Missionaries  died  of 
fever,  and  this  had  a  bad  effect  upon  the  converts. 
In  their  sermons  the  missionaries  had  said  that 
Christians  would  never  die ;  now  they  themselves 
were  dying  rapidly  ;  and  the  Arawacks,  therefore, 
concluded  that  the  Christian  religion  was  a  fable. 
The  whole  case  was  frankly  put  by  a  sorcerer : 
"  If  you  will  tell  us,"  he  argued,  "  how  to  go  to  heaven 
without  dying,  I  will  listen  to  you.  In  what  way  are 
your  people  better  off  than  I  am  ?  Schumann  died  ; 
his  colleagues  died  ;  what,  then,  are  you  doing  here  ?  " 

(3)  Guido  Burkhardt,  the  Moravian  historian, 
says  that  the  Brethren  failed  in  this  Mission 
because,  while  they  preached  about  the  Cross,  they 
did  not  also  preach  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount.  No 
attempt  was  made  to  cultivate  character  ;  no  steps 
were  taken  to  train  native  helpers ;  and  thus,  when 
trials  came,  the  converts,  like  the  shallow  men  in 
the  parable,  had  not  the  strength  of  character  to 
stand  the  strain.  In  vain  the  Brethren  founded  a 
fourth  station  ;  in  vain  they  named  it  "  Hope  "  ; 
in  vain  they  taught  industrial  arts  and  introduced 
a  system  of  discipline.  The  remedy  came  too  late. 
By  this  time  the  Arawack  Indians  had  learned  to 
speak  of  the  Gospel  with  open  contempt ;  certain 
youths  set  fire  to  the  premises,  and  the  Brethren, 
after  consulting  the  Lot,  abandoned  the  Mission  in 
despair  (1808). 


Chapter  VIII. 

THE  BUSH  NEGROES   OF  SURINAM, 
1765—1813. 

With  the  Bush  Negroes  of  Surinam  the  Brethren 
had  more  success.  As  soon  as  the  Negro  Rebelhon 
was  over  (1765) — a  Rebelhon  whereby  the  Bush 
Negroes  attained  complete  political  independence — 
all  white  men  in  Surinam  perceived  that  something 
must  be  done  to  teach  them  good  morals.  Without 
the  Gospel,  it  was  held,  they  would  be  a  constant 
danger  to  the  State,  and  guided  by  these  utilitarian 
motives,  Cromlin,  Governor  of  Surinam,  besought 
the  Brethren  to  undertake  a  Mission.  The  situation 
was  now  entirely  changed.  In  the  past,  Governor 
and  planters  alike  had  treated  the  Brethren  with 
scorn  ;  now,  smitten  with  terror,  they  turned  to  the 
Brethren  for  support.  The  Bush  Negroes  were  now 
a  powerful  political  force.  For  reasons  which  seem 
to  have  been  connected  with  the  geography  of  the 
country,  they  proceeded  to  organize  themselves  into 
four  great  tribes  or  kingdoms.  On  the  Cottica, 
the  Maroni,  the  Tapanahone,  and  the  Coermatibo 
Uved  the  Aukas  ;  on  the  Surinam,  the  Saramakkers  ; 
on  the  Saramakka,  the  Matuaris ;  and  on  the 
Coppename,  the  Kaffemakas.  Each  of  these  four 
tribes  or  kingdoms  held  command  of  a  river  ;  each 
was  ruled  by  a  King  or  Grandman,  fond  of  fame  and 
power ;  and  each,  therefore,  might  at  any  moment 
swoop  down  to  the  sea  coast  and  even  lay  siege  to 
Paramaribo. 

But  the  chief  source  of  danger  was  the  native 
religion.  According  to  the  Bush  Negroes,  all  things 
in  this  sad  world  were  managed,  not  by  Grandado, 
the  Creator,  who  lived  in  heaven  and  cared  not  for 

(121 


122        A  History  of  Mobavian  Missions. 

his  children,  but  by  two  wicked  spirits,  Bambo, 
the  God  of  the  Woods,  and  Boembe,  the  God  of  the 
Waters,  and  each  of  these  two  spirits  commanded 
a  vast  host  of  demons.  Demons  dwelt  in  the  boa- 
constrictor  ;  demons  appeared  in  the  form  of 
eremite  ants  ;  demons  made  the  cayman  terrible ; 
demons  haunted  the  crooked  Krumm-holz  tree. 
The  result  was  inevitable.  In  order  to  hold  these 
demons  at  bay,  the  Bush  Negroes  had  to  organize 
means  of  defence,  and,  speaking  broadly,  they  relied 
on  four  methods  : — 

(1)  For  some  reason  the  Brethren  could  never 
fathom,  the  Bush  Negroes  had  implicit  faith  in  a 
white  clay,  named  pimba-dotte.  With  pimba-dotte 
they  daubed  their  pots ;  with  pimba-dotte  they 
painted  their  huts  ;  with  pimba-dotte  they  smeared 
the  sick ;  and  with  pimba-dotte  they  coated  their 
medicine  bottles. 

(2)  Secondly,  they  relied  on  fetishes  and 
obeahs.  These  were  found  in  various  forms,  such 
as  a  common  pearl,  a  snail's  shell,  and  a  tiger's  tooth  ; 
and  articles  of  this  nature  were  hung  on  the  dogs 
to  make  them  swift,  on  the  trees  to  make  them 
fruitful,  and  on  the  children  to  shield  them  from 
danger. 

(3)  Thirdly,  they  believed  in  a  guardian  angel, 
named  the  Kandoo.  This  angel  was  generally  a 
spade  or  besom,  and,  being  hung  before  the  house, 
was  said  to  keep  burglars  away. 

(4)  Finally,  and  above  all,  the  Bush  Negroes 
believed  in  Sorcerers.  In  those  days  these  Sorcerers 
were  known  by  four  different  names.  Because  they 
dealt  in  wissi,  or  poison,  they  were  called  W^issimen ; 
because  they  ruled  the  Wintis,  or  demons,  they  were 
Wintimen ;  because  they  enchanted  the  Obeahs, 
they  were  Obeahmen  ;  and  because  they  could 
foresee  the  future,  they  were  Loekomen.     In  each 


The  Bush  Negroes  of  Surinam.  123 

of  these  four  departments  the  Sorcerer  exercised  his 
influence.  By  means  of  his  intimate  knowledge  of 
poisons  he  not  only  committed  murders  himself, 
but  also  enabled  others  to  WTcak  revenge ;  by  means 
of  his  acquaintance  with  Wintis — obtained  during 
a  hypnotic  trance — he  became  the  only  spiritual 
guide ;  by  means  of  his  powers  as  an  Obeahman  he 
was  able  to  manufacture  gods,  sold  those  gods  in 
thousands  at  fabulous  prices,  and  thus  became  a 
financial  magnate  ;  and  by  means  of  his  knowledge 
of  the  future,  he,  like  prophets  in  many  other 
countries,  controlled  the  policy  of  the  State.  Nor 
was  even  this  the  worst  of  the  case.  According 
to  the  Sorcerers,  many  diseases  were  caused — not, 
of  course,  by  natural  causes,  and  not  even  by 
malicious  demons — but  by  some  personal  human 
enemy.  That  enemy  might  be  a  white  planter,  or 
even  a  group  of  planters,  and  thus  there  was  the  very 
serious  danger  that,  if  the  Sorcerers  thought  they 
could  gain  thereby,  they  might  incite  the  Bush 
Negroes  to  renewed  acts  of  war.  For  this  simple 
reason,  therefore,  both  the  Governor  and  the  planters 
were  now  in  favour  of  the  Mission.  As  long  as  the 
Sorcerers  wielded  such  terrible  powers,  another 
war  might  break  out  at  any  moment.  Only  the 
Gospel  could  undermine  their  influence  ;  only  the 
Gospel  could  make  the  Bush  Negroes  civilised. 

At  the  request,  therefore,  of  the  Dutch  Government,  1765 
the  Brethren  now  commenced  a  Mission  to  the 
Saramakkers  on  the  Surinam  River.  During  the  first 
eleven  years  (1765-76)  the  chief  leader  was  Rudolph 
Stoll,  still  spoken  of,  it  is  said,  as  "  Brother  Rudolf  "  ; 
"the  first  station,  Quama  (1769),  was  on  the  Senthea 
Creek  ;  and  Stoll  acquired  great  influence  over  the 
people,  not  because  he  was  a  powerful  preacher,  but 
because,  by  a  little  tact,  he  gained  the  favour  of  their 
king,  Arabi.     The  first  interview  occurred  in  StoU's 


124        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

private  room,  and  the  story  throws  some  hght  on 
the  heathen  mind.  There,  on  the  wall — just  like 
Schumann — Stoll  had  a  picture  of  the  Crucifixion. 

"  What  is  that  bright  thing  on  the  wall  ?  "  asked 
the  young  king,  Arabi. 

"  That  is  a  picture,"  replied  Stoll,  "  of  the  Great 
God,  the  Creator  of  Heaven  and  Earth.  He  became 
a  man,  suffered  and  died  for  your  sins  and  mine. 
If  you  give  Him  your  heart,  and  ask  Him  for 
forgiveness.  He  will  make  you  happy  for  ever." 

"  But  I  am  a  good  man,"  said  Arabi,  "  I  never  did 
a  wrong  thing  in  my  life." 

Stoll  adroitly  changed  the  subject.  In  his  hand 
Arabi  held  a  stick,  adorned  with  parrots'  feathers, 
and  Stoll  now  asked  him  to  explain  what  it  was. 

"  That  is  my  god-stick,"  replied  Arabi.  He  had 
brought  it  with  him  as  a  mascot. 

For  a  few  moments  Stoll  fingered  the  stick ,  then 
he  handed  it  back  to  Arabi  and  informed  him  that 
by  trusting  in  the  stick  he  was  serving  the  devil ; 
and  Arabi,  on  his  return  home,  threw  his  god-stick 
into  the  kitchen  fire.  He  was  tr3ang  a  bold  experi- 
ment. "  If  you  are  a  God,"  he  said,  '*  that  fire  will 
not  hurt  you  ;  but  if  it  does,  I  have  done  with  you 
for  ever." 

The  result  was  Arabi's  conversion.  For  the  long 
period  of  fifty  years  (1771-1821)  King  Arabi  warmly 
supported  the  Mission ;  with  his  assistance  Stoll 
translated  the  four  Gospels  into  Negro-English ; 
the  King  himself  became  known  as  a  preacher, 
and  one  of  his  best  sermons  has  been  preserved. 
Two  more  stations,  Bambey  (1774)  and  New  Bambey 
(1779),  were  founded  a  little  further  up  the  river. 

With  the  death  of  Stoll  (1777),  however,  great 
troubles  began.  During  the  next  thirty-six  years  this 
Mission  to  the  Bush  Negroes  was  one  dismal  series 
of  disasters.     And  the  cause  of  those  disasters  was 


The  Bush  Negroes  or  Surinam.  125 

disease.     In   those   days    Surinam   resembled    Sierra 
Leone,    the    Bush    Negroes    called    it    "  The    Dead 
Country,"    and    smitten   down   by   three    diseases — 
malaria,       dandy-fever,       and       dysentery — fifteen 
missionaries   found   an   early   death.        Most   of  the 
others  had  to  retire  broken  down  ;    only  three  could        I 
stand  the   climate   at   all ;     and,   therefore,   for  the      ( 
time  being,   the  Mission  to  the  Bush  Negroes  was       ^ 
abandoned  (1813). 


Chapter  IX. 

SOUTH  AFRICA:    THE  HOTTENTOTS, 
1736—1744. 

For  the  origin  of  this  Mission  we  must  give  the 
credit  to  the  Halle  Missionary,  Ziegenbalg.  As  this 
man  was  on  his  way  home  from  Malabar,  he  called 
at  Cape  Town  ;  there  he  heard  sad  talcs  about  the 
Hottentots,  and  appealed,  on  their  behalf,  to  two 
pastors  in  Holland ;  and  these  men,  in  their  turn, 
forwarded  the  appeal  to  Herrnhut.  The  man 
selected  to  go  to  South  Africa  was  George  Schmidt. 
For  six  years  this  young  Protestant  hero  had  lain 
in  a  gloomy  dungeon  in  Moravia,  with  chains  on  his 
wrists,  fetters  on  his  feet,  and  the  flesh  peeling  off 
in  flakes  from  his  ankle-bones.  Thereby,  like  many 
of  his  colleagues,  he  had  learned  to  endure  hard- 
ships, and  now,  after  spending  a  year  at  Amsterdam, 

Mar.  13th,  chiefly  for  the  purpose  of  learning  Dutch,  he  set  sail 
1737  for  South  Africa.  At  that  time  the  managing  board 
of  the  Dutch  East  India  Company  was  generally 
known  as  the  Chamber  of  Seventeen  ;  this  Chamber 
gave  Schmidt  a  letter  of  introduction  to  the  Governor 
of  Cape  Town,  and  therein  they  urged  the  Governor 
to  give  Schmidt  every  assistance  in  his  power.  For 
the  first  few  weeks,  therefore,  George  Schmidt  had 
some  reason  to  be  hopeful.  The  Governor  welcomed 
him  warmly  ;  the  Council  of  Policy  passed  a  resolu- 
tion to  support  him  ;  and  the  Dutch  clergy,  on  the 
whole,   seemed   in   favour   of  the   Mission.     On   his 

July  9th,  first  evening  in  Cape  Town,  however,  Schmidt 
1737  heard  the  other  side  of  the  story.  He  was  sitting  in 
the  public  room  of  an  inn,  and  there  he  heard  some 
local  farmers  discussing  the  situation. 

126) 


South  Africa  :    The  Hottentots.         127 

"  I  hear,"  said  one,  "  that  a  parson  has  come  here 
to  convert  the  Hottentots." 

"  A  parson  ?  "  quoth  another.  "  The  j'oung  man  is 
no  parson  at  all.  What  good  can  he  ever  do  to  the 
Hottentots  ?  They  are  stupid ;  they  have  no 
money  ;  and  this  man  actually  proposes  to  bear  his 
own  expenses.  The  poor  fool  must  have  lost  his 
head." 

"  And  what,  sir,  do  you  think  ?  "  said  the  waiter 
to  Schmidt. 

"I,"  answered  Schmidt,  "  am  the  very  man." 

George  Schmidt  soon  found  himself  in  strange 
surroundings.  Is  it  true,  or  is  it  not  true,  that  before 
George  Schmidt  arrived  no  attempt  had  been  made  to 
convert  the  Hottentots  ?  It  is  not.  For  eighty- 
four  years  South  Africa  had  been  ruled  by  a  Council 
of  Policy,  appointed  by  the  Dutch  East  India 
Company.  That  Company,  be  it  remembered,  was 
not  merely  a  commercial  Company,  but  also  a  religious 
Society,  and  one  rule  in  its  charter  provided  that 
ministers  and  schoolmasters  should  be  appointed, 
not  only  for  the  benefit  of  the  colonists,  but  also  for 
the  non-Christian  native  population.  To  that  ideal 
some  of  the  colonists  held  true.  Van  Riebeck,  the 
first  Governor,  opened  a  school  for  slaves  ;  some  of 
the  clergy  preached  to  the  Hottentots  and  baptized 
their  converts,  and  the  general  understanding  seems 
to  have  been  that  if  a  Hottentot  became  a  Christian 
he  should  have  the  same  civic  rights  as  the  Dutch 
themselves.  But  this  was  only  one  side  of  the 
story.  In  so-called  Christian  South  Africa  there 
was  a  great  difference  between  theory  and  fact. 
In  theory  the  Dutch  farmers  were  members  of  the 
Dutch  Reformed  Church  ;  in  fact  there  was  only  one 
clergyman  to  every  24,000  farmers  ;  and  the  con- 
sequence was  that  most  of  those  farmers  were 
Christians  only  in  name.     In  theory  the  Boers  were 


128        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

pledged  to  instruct  the  Hottentots  in  the  Christian 
rehgion ;  in  fact  many  of  them  were  bigoted 
Calvinists,  called  the  Hottentots  children  of  the 
devil,  black  ware,  and  black  cattle,  ruined  them 
with  brandy,  sold  them  as  slaves,  and  sometimes 
boasted  over  their  cups  how  many  Hottentots  they 
had  shot.  The  situation,  in  fact,  was  partly  good 
and  partly  bad.  By  a  few  pious  Dutch  farmers  the 
Hottentots  were  well  treated  ;  by  many  others  they 
were  badly  treated ;  and  most  of  them,  when  Schmidt 
arrived,  were  still  absolute  heathen. 

Of  the  origin  of  the  Hottentots  little  is  known. 
According  to  some  scholars  they  came  originally 
from  the  North  of  Africa  ;  once,  it  is  said,  they  had 
been  a  powerful  race,  but  now,  through  slavery,  drink 
and  small-pox,  they  had  degenerated  both  in  body 
and  in  soul.  The  main  facts,  as  noted  by  Schmidt, 
were  as  follows  : — 

(a)  Social  Life.  They  lived  in  villages  known  as 
kraals,  consisting  of  wooden  huts  shaped  like  bee- 
hives ;  tanned  leather,  carved  ivory,  baked  their 
own  pots  and  pans,  made  needles  of  birds'  bones 
and  ropes  of  rushes  and  entrails,  fed  chiefly  on  flesh, 
milk,  roots  and  fruits,  and  not  knowing  the  use 
of  salt,  suffered  much  from  indigestion.  Marriage 
was  regarded  as  a  sacred  contract,  adultery  was 
punished  with  death,  and  both  old  people  and 
delicate  children  were  often  exposed  to  wild  beasts. 

(6)  Politics.  At  the  head  of  each  tribe  was  a 
Ranger,  this  office  descending  from  father  to  son  ; 
and  over  each  village  a  "  Head-man,"  whose  business 
it  was  to  lead  all  his  people  in  battle,  preside  at  public 
debates,  administer  justice,  and  knock  convicted 
prisoners  on  the  head. 

(e)  Religion.  First,  they  believed  in  a  good  God 
named    Toiqua,    who,    however,    lived    above    the 


South  Africa  :    The  Hottentots.         129 

moon,  and  did  not  trouble  himself  with  human 
affairs  ;  secondly,  in  Gauna,  the  devil,  the  author 
of  all  evil ;  thirdly,  in  a  friendly  God,  Heitsielib, 
who  consulted  with  the  powers  of  darkness  ;  fourthly, 
in  the  moon  herself,  who  sent  both  rain  and  fine 
weather ;  fifthly,  in  a  green  flying  beetle,  sometimes 
called  the  Hottentots'  God ;  and  sixthly,  in  the 
power  of  witch-doctors.  Further,  the  Hottentots 
spoke  of  the  spirits  of  the  dead,  and  had,  therefore, 
some  belief  in  immortality. 

For  six  years  George  Schmidt  made  his  head-  1737-43 
quarters  in  a  valley  known  then  as  Bavianskloof, 
i.e.,  Glen  of  Baboons,  situated  in  the  Sweet  Milk 
Valley,  about  one  hundred  miles  east  of  Cape  Town. 
There  he  planted  a  hardy  pear  tree,  famed  in 
Moravian  lore ;  there  he  built  a  house  and  dug  a 
garden ;  there  he  taught  the  natives  to  dig  and 
plant ;  there,  every  afternoon,  he  taught  the  boys 
and  girls  to  read  and  write  ;  and  there,  each  evening, 
he  gathered  the  natives  around  him,  read  them 
Zinzendorf's  Berlin  Discourses,  and  gave  them 
systematic  theological  lectures  on  St.  Paul's  Epistle 
to  the  Romans. 

For  a  long  time  nothing  very  wonderful  occurred. 
Each  evening,  after  dark,  Schmidt  brought  his  diary 
up  to  date  ;  that  diary  has  been  preserved,  and  the 
Herrnhut  Brethren  called  it  "  Spice."  His  diary, 
however,  contains  no  strange  adventures.  It  is 
simply  the  quiet  record  of  a  humble  worker.  Some- 
times he  lay  awake  at  night  tormented  with  tooth- 
ache ;  sometimes  he  felt  lonely  and  wrote  to  Herrnhut 
for  assistants  ;  and  one  night  he  recorded  the  sad 
and,  to  him,  surprising  fact  that  when  he  expounded 
St.  Paul's  theology,  the  Hottentots  did  not  pay  much 

t attention.  At  last,  however,  he  saw  some  fruit 
of  his  labours.  Among  those  who  attended  his 
evening  classes,   the  most  intelligent  was   Willem  ; 


180        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Schmidt  now  baptized  Willem  in  the  Steenbrans 
River  (March  31st,  1742)  ;  and  soon  afterwards 
he  had  four  more  converts.  Thus  did  George 
Schmidt  estabhsh  the  first  native  congregation  on 
South  African  soil. 

But  now  we  come  to  the  strange  part  of  the  story. 
As  soon  as  Schmidt  began  to  baptize  his  converts, 
the  Dutch  clergy — holding  that,  in  religious  matters, 
South  Africa  belonged  exclusively  to  the  Dutch 
State  Church — declared  that  Schmidt  had  robbed 
them  of  their  monopoly  ;  Schmidt,  however,  refused 
to  cease  baptizing ;  and  the  clergy,  appealing  to 
the  Classis  in  Amsterdam,  now  accused  him  of  three 
offences.  First,  they  said,  he  had  been  ordained, 
not  by  imposition  of  hands,  but  through  an  ordination 
certificate  sent  by  Zinzendorf  (true)  ;  secondly, 
being  a  Herrnhuter,  he  was  a  heretic  (admitted  after- 
wards by  the  clergy  to  be  false)  ;  and  thirdly,  he  had 
baptized  his  converts,  not  in  the  presence  of  witnesses, 
but  in  lonely  places  (true  in  the  case  of  Willem). 
For  two  years  Schmidt  toiled  on  at  Bavianskloof ; 
Mar.4thj  the  Classis,  however,  condemned  his  baptisms  as 
1744  illegal ;  and,  broken-hearted,  Schmidt  had  to  leave 
South  Africa.  Forty-one  years  later  (August  2nd, 
1785),  Schmidt  died  at  Niesky,  in  Silesia.  Around 
his  last  moments  a  legend  gathered.  As  Schmidt 
belonged  to  a  band  of  intercessors,  and  died  just 
about  the  time  when  it  was  his  turn  to  pray,  his 
friends  said  that  he  passed  to  his  rest  with  a  prayer 
for  South  Africa  on  his  lips ;  and  no  story  could 
have  been  more  true  to  his  noble  character. 


Chapter  X. 
LABRADOR,  1752—1804. 
1.     The  GovERNirENT  Grant. 

As  soon  as  the  coast  of  Labrador  became  an 
integral  part  of  the  British  Empire — i.e.,  by  the  Peace 
of  Paris,  1763 — the  British  Government  had  to  con- 
sider how  to  manage  the  Eskimos.  Sir  Hugh 
PalHsser,  a  pious  man,  was  appointed  Governor  of 
Newfoundland,  and  the  interesting  feature  of  the 
story  is  that  just  when  Sir  Hugh  was  seeking  for  men, 
there  was  living  far  away,  at  Herrnhut,  a  man  whose 
chief  desire  in  life  was  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  the 
Eskimos.  He  was  a  Dane ;  his  name  was  Jens 
Haven ;  and,  as  he  was  little  in  stature,  he  came  to 
be  known  as  "Little  Jens."  His  desire  may  be  easily 
explained.  For  many  years  the  Moravians  in 
London  had  taken  a  very  deep  interest  in  Labrador  ; 
in  1752  they  sent  John  Erhardt  on  an  exploring 
expedition,  and  the  news  that  Erhardt  had  been 
murdered  by  Eskimos  filled  Jens  Haven  with  zeal.  For 
six  years,  however.  Count  Zinzendorf  kept  him  waiting. 
"  If  you  wish  to  preach  in  Labrador,"  he  said, 
*'  you  must  first  go  to  Greenland  and  learn  the 
language.  The  Lord  will  clear  the  way  for  you." 
Jens  Haven  obeyed.  During  the  next  four  years  he  1758'62 
assisted  Stach  in  Greenland  ;  then,  like  Dober,  he 
heard  a  strange  voice  in  the  night ;  then,  obedient 
to  the  heavenly  vision,  he  returned  to  Herrnhut 
and  explained  his  designs,  and  finally,  he  came  over 
to  London,  consulted  a  Moravian  named  James 
Hutton,  and  was  soon  introduced  by  Hutton  to  Sir 
Hugh  Pallisser  him^self. 

Sir   Hugh    soon   seized    his   opportunity.     In   flat 
defiance  of  popular  opinion,  he  held  that,  while  the 

(m) 


132        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Eskimos  had  committed  many  murders,  the  blame 
rested,  not  on  them  alone,  but  largely,  if  not  entirely, 
on  the  traders  ;  all  the  Eskimos  needed,  he  said, 
was  someone  to  teach  them  better  ;  and,  therefore, 
he  now  not  only  took  Jens  Haven  with  him,  but  even 
issued  a  proclamation  in  his  favour.  Jens  Haven 
went  out  in  a  double  capacity.  First,  as  an  agent  of 
the  Government,  he  was  to  make  the  Eskimos  loyal 
citizens ;  secondly,  as  a  Moravian  missionary,  he 
would  preach  the  Gospel ;  and  Sir  Hugh  Pallisser 
made  the  situation  clear.  "  As  Mr.  Haven  has  formed 
the  laudable  plan,  not  only  of  uniting  the  people 
with  the  English  nation,  but  of  instructing  them  in 
the  Christian  religion,  I  require,  by  virtue  of  the 
power  delegated  to  me,  that  all  men  whomsoever 
it  may  concern  lend  him  all  the  assistance  in  their 
power." 

With  this  two-fold  purpose,  therefore,  Jens  Haven 
began  his  campaign.  The  first  interview  took  place 
Sept.  4th,  in  Quirpoint  Harbour.  As  the  Eskimos  had  often 
1764  been  swindled  by  certain  traders,  Jens  Haven's 
first  task  was  to  win  their  confidence,  and,  standing 
on  the  deck  of  a  fishing  smack,  he  called  to  some 
Eskimos  paddling  their  kayaks :  "  Come  over  to  me," 
he  said,  in  Eskimo,  "  I  have  something  to  say.  I 
am  your  friend." 

The  nearest  Eskimo  beamed  with  joy.  "  Our 
friend  is  come,"  he  cried  to  his  mates. 

Jens  Haven  ran  down  to  his  cabin,  donned  his 
Eskimo  dress,  had  himself  rowed  to  the  beach, 
and  there  met  a  group  of  Eskimos.  With  his  Eskimo 
dress  and  his  squat  little  figure,  he  looked  like  an 
Eskimo  himself,  and  the  Eskimos  themselves  were 
quite  deceived.  "  You  must  be  a  countryman  of 
ours,"  they  said. 

"  I  am  your  countryman  and  your  friend,"  he 
answered,  and  all  the  Eskimos  beamed  with  pleasure. 


Labrador.  188 

For  two  days  Jens  Haven — first  on  an  islanoand  then 
on  the  harbour  beach — fraternised  with  these  blood- 
thirsty savages,  and  taking  out  his  "  Letter  of 
Safe  Conduct,"  he  made  the  solemn  and  formal 
announcement  that  Labrador  was  now  a  British 
Colony ;  that  George  III.,  King  of  Great  Britain 
and  Ireland,  had  authorised  him,  Jens  Haven,  to 
preach  the  Gospel,  and  that  if  they  would  promise 
to  be  good,  and  not  commit  any  more  murders, 
he  would  come  again  next  year  and  tell  them 
about  the  Creator  who  died  for  their  sins.  By 
his  tact  Haven  broke  down  all  suspicion.  The 
chief  angekok  kissed  him,  others  beat  a  drum 
and  shouted,  "  Our  friend  has  come,"  and  the 
Eskimo  women  nearly  squeezed  him  to  death. 
Sir  Hugh  PalHsser  was  dehghted.  Jens  Haven 
told  his  story  in  London,  and  the  English 
Moravians  now  decided  to  establish  a  Mission  in 
Labrador. 

For  this  purpose,  therefore,  next  year  (1765)  the  1765 
Brethren  sent  out  four  missionaries.  Sir  Thomas 
Adams,  a  British  sea  captain,  conveyed  them  on  a 
man-of-war.  One  of  the  four  missionaries,  Drachart, 
had  served  already  in  Greenland.  The  man-of-war 
cast  anchor  at  Chateau  Bay,  and  there,  in  the 
presence  not  only  of  Sir  Thomas,  but  also  of  Sir 
Hugh  Pallisser,  Drachart  informed  the  Eskimos 
that  they  must  be  loyal  subjects  of  George  HI. 
For  about  two  months  the  vessel  skirted  the  coast, 
and  all  four  missionaries  chatted  with  the  people. 
One  night  Haven  and  Drachart  slept  in  an  angekok's 
tent,  and  the  Eskimos  were  more  friendly  than 
ever.  "  You  are  not  Europeans,"  they  said,  "  you 
do  not  come  with  guns." 

Next  year  (1766)  a  fresh  force  came  on  the  field       1766 
of  action.     For  twenty-five  years,  unknown  to  the 
general  pubhc,   there  had   existed   in  Fetter  Lane, 


134        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

London,  a  small  Missionary  Society,  founded  on 
March  8th,  1741,  and  called  the  "  Society  for  the 
Furtherance  of  the  Gospel,  "f  The  chief  member 
was  James  Hutton,  the  friend  both  of  John  Wesley 
and  of  Dr.  Johnson,  and  now  the  members  of  this 
Society  made  a  great  and  important  change  in 
their  policy.  In  the  past  they  had  taken  an  interest 
,  in  Moravian  Missions  in  general,  and  had  sent  no 
fewer  than  fifty  men  to  various  mission  fields ; 
now  they  gave  all  their  attention  to  Labrador,  and 
forthwith  they  applied  to  the  Board  of  Trade  for  a 
grant  of  one  hundred  thousand  acres.  For  three 
years  James  Hutton  bombarded  Government  officials 
in  vain  ;  then,  at  last  (May  3rd,  1769),  a  grant  of 
144,000  acres  was  made,  and  Lord  Hillsborough, 
Secretary  for  the  American  Colonies,  not  only 
expressed  .his  good  wishes,  but  declared  that,  in  his 
opinion,  the  Brethren  were  the  only  truly  public 
spirited  people  in  England.  With  the  conscious- 
ness, therefore,  that  they  had  Government  support, 
the  Society  for  the  Furtherance  of  the  Gospel  now 
undertook  the  Labrador  Mission.  In  order  to  raise 
the  necessary  funds,  some  Brethren  formed  the 
"  Labrador  Company,"  and  bought  a  little  sloop, 
the  Jersey  Packet,  and  the  temporary  business 
1770-97  arrangement  was  that  while  the  Society  would  pay 
the  missionaries'  travelling  expenses,  the  Company 
would  trade  with  the  natives  and  hand  over  to  the 
Society  all  profits  over  four  per  cent. 
1770  The  next  task,  of  course,  was  to  select  the  site.  For 

this  purpose  Jens  Haven,  Drachart,  Stephen  Jensen, 
and  eight  other  Brethren  now  set  sail  on  the  Jersey 


tOn  September  17th,  1921,  the  S.F.G.  was  incorporated  as  the 
"  Trust  Society  for  the  Furtherance  of  the  Gospel  "  (Registered 
Office,  Moravian  Church  House,  32,  Fetter  Lane,  London), 
and  on  October  16th,  1921,  it  was  made  the  Trustee  and  Ivepre- 
Bentative  of  Moravian  Foreign  Missions  in  all  matters  of  money 
and  property  in  the  United  Kingdom. 


Labrador.  135 

Packet ;  the  vessel  cast  anchor  at  Kingspoint,  in 
Eskimo  Bay,  i.e.,  about  half-way  up  the  coast, 
and  there  Drachart,  acting  both  in  the  name  of  the 
Government  and  in  the  name  of  the  S.F.G.,  negotiated 
with  the  natives  for  the  transfer  of  property. 
Drachart  shewed  wonderful  tact.  Instead  of  seizing 
the  land  by  force,  he  decided  to  obtain  it  by  purchase, 
and  thus  the  Eskimos  were  made  to  feel  that  they 
were  being  fairly  treated.  With  a  large  sheet  of 
paper  in  his  hand,  he  went  from  tent  to  tent,  taking 
down  the  names  of  the  men,  asking  them  to  add  their 
mark,  and  informing  them  that  when  the  sale  was 
effected  the  site  would  be  defined  by  boundary 
stones.  With  this  proposal  the  Eskimos  were 
delighted.  "  Pay  up  !  Pay  up  I  "  they  cried  in 
glee,  "  if  you  pay  you  can  have  as  much  land  as  ever 
you  like." 

"But  that  is  not  enough,"  said  Drachart,  "how  do 
we  know  that  when  we  settle  do\N'n  you  will  not 
kill  us  and  steal  our  boats  ?  " 

"  No  !  No  !  "  they  protested,  "  we  will  never 
steal  and  murder  any  more.  We  and  you  are 
Brethren." 

**  Very  good,"  admitted  Drachart,  "  but  from 
whom  shall  we  buy  the  land  ?  You  have  no 
landlords.  I  propose  to  give  each  of  you  a  useful 
article  ;  your  names  on  that  sheet  will  witness  that 
you  agree  ;  and  in  years  to  come  your  children  will 
read  this  list." 

For  the  future  history  of  Labrador  this  conversation 
was  of  decisive  importance.  By  the  authority  of  the 
British  Government,  and  also  with  the  consent  of  the 
Eskimos,  the  S.F.G.  became  the  owner  of  a  tract  of 
land,  and  one  advantage  of  the  arrangement  was 
that  any  other  traders  who  ventured  near  could 
be  prevented  from  interfering.  On  the  other  hand 
the  missionaries  had  been  instructed  by  the  Govern- 


186        A  History  or  Moravian  Missions. 

ment  not  to  interfere  with  the  fishing  rights  of  men 
trading  on  the  coast. 

On  August  6th,  1770,  two  boundary  stones  were 
erected.  On  one  was  inscribed  G.R.  III.,  1770,  on  the 
other  U.F.,  1770.  The  paper  in  Drachart's 
possession  was  duly  signed,  the  Eskimos  had  been 
duly  paid  in  full,  and  the  preparations  for  the 
Mission  were  now  complete. 

2.  The  Three  Stations,  1771—1782. 

As  soon,  then,  as  the  way  was  clear,  the  Mission 
began  in  earnest.  A  large  party  of  fourteen — eleven 
men  and  three  women — was  appointed,  and  the 
Brethren  made  a  systematic  attempt  to  settle  down 
among  the  people.  For  every  detail  of  the  work  the 
most  elaborate  preparations  were  made.  The  leader 
was  Christopher  Brasen,  a  doctor ;  the  preachers 
were  Haven  and  Drachart ;  seven  artisans — 
John  Schneider,  Joseph  Neisser,  Stephen  Jensen, 
William  Turner,  Christian  Lister,  Theobald  Freeh, 
and  James  Rhodes — were  to  act  as  handymen, 
and  three  ladies — the  wives  of  Brasen,  Schneider, 
and  Haven — would  cook  and  sew  for  the  whole 
company.  By  this  combination  of  talent  the 
Brethren  hoped  to  meet  every  possible  need.  The 
doctor  would  attend  to  the  sick  and  bind  up 
wounds  ;  the  two  preachers  would  sow  the  Gospel 
seed ;  the  artisans  would  build  houses,  manage 
stores,  till  gardens,  and  trade  with  the  natives ; 
and  the  ladies,  in  their  moments  of  leisure,  would 
visit  the  Eskimos  in  their  huts  and  win  the  confidence 
of  the  mothers  and  girls.  Thus,  it  was  hoped, 
civilisation  and  religion  would,  from  the  outset, 
go  hand  in  hand. 
1771  With  this  two-fold  purpose,  therefore,  the  famous 

"Fourteen"    set   sail   (May   8th,    1771).     The   ship 
was   the   second   Moravian    ship,    the    Amity.      On 


Labrador.  137 

August  10th  they  landed  in  Eskimo  Bay.  First  the 
artisans  erected  a  palisade ;  then  they  built 
a  large  house ;  there  all  the  fourteen  lived  together ; 
and  thus  Nain,  the  first  station  in  Labrador,  was 
established.  For  many  years  it  remained  the  head- 
quarters of  the  work. 

Once  more,  then,  as  in  Greenland,  the  Brethren 
adopted  their  favourite  settlement  policy,  and 
thereby  they  hoped  to  accomplish  at  least  four 
purposes.  By  opening  trade  with  the  Eskimos 
they  hoped  to  keep  other  traders  at  a  distance ; 
secondly,  by  means  of  the  trade,  they  hoped  to  make 
the  Mission  self-supporting ;  thirdly,  by  setting 
a  good  example  they  hoped  to  teach  the  Eskimos 
industrious  habits  ;  and,  fourthly,  they  even  ventured 
to  hope  that,  when  Labrador  became  truly  civilised, 
there  would  be  a  substantial  improvement  in  the 
British  fishing  industry.  Nor  was  even  this  the  whole 
of  the  scheme.  In  order  to  manage  the  work  with 
any  efficiency,  the  Moravians,  from  the  very  outset, 
always  had  their  own  ship.  Each  year,  in  the  early 
summer,  i.e.,  when  the  ice  had  brok^,  the 
Moravian  ship  brought  tea,  coffee,  tinjied^^meats. 
and  other  needful  groceries ;  and  then  in  the 
autumn,  she  returned  to  London  with  seal-skins, 
fox-skins,  cod-liver  oil  and  other  Labrador  products; 
and  thus  the  Brethren  would  pay  their  own  way, 
keep  in  touch  with  the  homeland,  and  welcome 
fresh  recruits  from  time  to  time.  To  all  the 
missionaries  in  Labrador  the  annual  visit  of  the  ship 
was  the  red-letter  day  of  the  year.  During  the 
winter  months  they  were  entirely  cut  off  from  the 
civilised  world.  By  means  of  the  ship  alone  could 
they  receive  building  material  and  food  ;  by  means 
of  the  ship  alone  could  they  receive  and  send  letters  ; 
and  by  means  of  the  ship  alone  could  they  hear  the 
latest  political  or  religious  news. 


138        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

For  some  years,  to  all  appearances,  this  system 
worked  very  well.  In  strict  accordance  with  their 
promises,  the  Eskimos  abode  by  their  agreement. 
With  the  trade  arrangements  they  were  perfectly 
satisfied.  Each  year  they  brought  to  the 
station  seal-skins,  fox-skins,  and  walrus  tusks, 
and  received  in  return  such  useful  articles  as  kettles, 
lances,  harpoons,  and  arrows.  In  the  summer  they 
pitched  their  tents  near  Nain,  and  lived  on  the 
friendliest  terms  with  the  missionaries  ;  and,  before 
long,  large  numbers  of  them  learned  to  make  useful 
articles  for  themselves.  And  yet,  on  the  whole, 
the  results  were  disappointing.  In  appearance, 
the  Eskimos  had  become  civilised  ;  murders 
and  thefts  were  now  almost  unknown ;  and 
the  consequence  was  that  Lieutenant  Curtis, 
who  was  sent  by  the  Government  to  make 
official  inquiries,  was  able  to  present  a  most  satis- 
factory report.  "  Instead  of  meeting  a  herd  of 
brutal  savages,"  he  wrote  (1773),  "  you  see  them 
practising  the  duties  of  society;  you  behold  gentle- 
ness and  civility,  where  a  little  while  ago  there  was 
nothing  seen  but  ferocity  and  distrust.  It  is  not 
alone  by  precept  that  they  are  humanised  and 
improved.  They  see  the  harmony  which  exists 
among  the  teachers,  and  the  benefits  arising  from 
brotherly  friendship  and  mutual  obligations  are 
too  striking  not  to  be  observed  by  them.  They 
learn  also  to  be  industrious.  They  learn  that  every 
convenience  that  we  enjoy  above  them  is  the  pro- 
duction of  industry.  They  now  begin  to  taste 
contentment,  and  a  hitherto  unknown  happiness  is 
to  be  discovered  among  them."  But  this  was 
not  all  that  Lieutenant  Curtis  noticed.  With  the 
keen  eye  of  a  naval  officer,  he  observed  that  while 
the  Eskimos  changed  their  habits,  they  had  not  the 
least     desire     to     change     their     religion.      "  They 


Labrador.  189 

perceive,"  he  remarked,  "  that  the  advantages 
which  may  accrue  to  them  from  a  behef  in  the  Gospel 
are  not  so  immediate  nor  so  strikingly  apparent." 
For  nearly  thirty  years,  therefore,  the  Brethren 
worked  in  Labrador  with  hardly  any  spiritual  success. 
By  the  aid  of  the  Government  they  obtained  two 
more  tracts  of  land,  and  built  two  more  stations — 
Okak  (1778)  and  Hopedale  (1782).  But  here 
again  they  had  the  same  sad  experience,  and 
all  along  the  coast  they  now  observed  that  while 
the  Eskimos  became  industrious  they  still  refused, 
with  a  few  exceptions,  to  accept  the  Gospel  message. 
In  1800  the  number  of  converts  was  only  one 
hundred  and  two  ;  of  these  only  a  few  could  be 
trusted,  and  one  of  the  missionaries.  Christian 
Burckhardt,  denounced  the  Eskimos  as  hypocrites.  In 
civilisation  the  Eskimos  had  advanced,  in  religion 
they  were  as  heathen  as  ever,  and  the  Brethren 
wondered  what  the  reason  could  be.  "  We  are 
working,"  they  wrote,  "  in  a  kind  of  twilight." 

3.      TUGLAVINA,    1771-93. 

At  last  the  Brethren  solved  the  mystery.  For 
some  thirty  or  forty  years  the  uncrowned  King  of 
Labrador  was  a  certain  high  priest,  or  angekok, 
named  Tuglavina.  At  the  time  when  the  Brethren 
arrived  he  already,  unknown  to  them,  held  supreme 
authority,  and  being  both  wicked  and  astute,  he 
contrived,  while  posing  as  their  friend,  to  institute  a 
secret  reign  of  terror.  His  influence  over  the 
Eskimos  was  enormous.  According  to  the  popular 
opinion,  he  was  in  constant  intercourse  with 
Torngak ;  by  Torngak  he  was  informed  which  men 
were  fit  to  live  and  which  to  die ;  and,  using  his 
influence,  he  had  already  caused  many  mysterious 
deaths.  Because  he  was  an  angekok  he  was  almost 
worshipped  ;    because  he  was  a  mighty  hunter  he 


140        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

was  admired  ;  and  because  he  was  a  murderer  he 
was  feared.  As  long  as  this  cruel  monster  held  sway, 
most  of  the  people  feared  to  change  their  religion. 
He  began  by  practising  a  fraud  upon  the  Brethren. 
At  the  very  time  when  James  Hutton  was  conduct- 
ing his  final  negotiations  with  the  Government,  Sir 
Hugh  Pallisser  brought  to  England  a  bright  young 
Eskimo  woman  named  Mikak,  and  after  her  return 
to  Labrador  she  became  the  observed  of  all  observers. 
There  she  sat  in  a  fine  new  tent  provided  by  Sir 
Hugh  Pallisser  himself,  showing  the  white  dress, 
trimmed  with  lace  and  decked  with  golden  stars, 
presented  to  her  by  the  Dowager  Princess  of  Wales  ; 
there  she  narrated  how  she  had  driven  through  the 
streets  of  London  and  feasted  on  salmon  at  Lindsay 
House  with  certain  Moravian  Brethren ;  and,  airing 
her  English,  she  smiled  on  her  friends,  and  said  : 
"  How  do  you  do  ?  "  The  more  Tuglavina  saw 
of  this  proud  beauty,  the  more  intensely  he  desired 
to  marry  her.  With  her  at  his  side  he  would  be 
more  powerful  than  ever.  For  this  cause,  therefore, 
he  pretended  to  be  the  Brethen's  friend  ;  the  Brethren 
agreed  to  the  marriage,  and  Tuglavina  bore  off  his 
bride  in  triumph.  As  soon,  however,  as  he  had 
secured  his  prize,  Tuglavina  appeared  in  his  true 
colours.  For  twenty  years,  with  obvious  motives, 
he  plotted  against  the  Brethren.  By  upholding 
the  old  religion  he  was  upholding  his  own  authority  ; 
that  authority  he  was  resolved  to  retain, 
and,  therefore,  aided  by  the  other  angekoks,  he 
urged  the  people  to  remain  true  to  the  old  Eskimo 
religion.  His  task  was  easy.  At  the  time  when  the 
Brethren  arrived  all  pious  Eskimos  still  sincerely 
believed,  not  only  that  Torngak,  the  national  god, 
controlled  the  winds  and  the  waves,  but  also  that 
the  angekoks  alone  were  able  to  gain  his  favour. 
They  alone  could  address  him  in  prayer,  and  obtain 


Labrador.  141 

from  him  the  kind  of  weather  required  ;  they  alone 
could  learn  from  him  where  the  seals  abounded  ;  they 
alone  could  enable  the  hunter  to  track  the  fox  to 
his  lair ;  they  alone  could  predict  with  certainty 
when  the  ice  would  break.  To  the  Eskimos  Torngak 
was  still  the  best  friend  they  had.  With  the  aid  of 
powerful  Torngak  they  could  keep  body  and  soul 
together ;  he  had  sent  them  seals  in  days  gone 
by,  and,  therefore,  there  was  no  reason  why  they 
should  change  him  for  another  god.  As  long  as 
they  could  obtain  food  for  their  bodies,  most  of 
them  cared  very  little  about  their  souls,  and  the  god 
who  sent  the  largest  seals  was  the  god  that  they 
preferred. 

On  one  occasion  Jens  Haven  was  brought 
face  to  face  with  the  issue.  The  scene  was  an 
Eskimo  hut.  On  an  island,  outside  in  the  bay, 
there  lay  a  dead  whale  ;  the  time  was  night ;  the 
hut  was  full  of  Eskimos,  and  the  question  under 
discussion  was  whether,  during  the  night,  the  ice 
would  break.  If  the  ice  held,  the  whale  could  be 
secured,  if  not,  it  would  probably  be  washed  away. 
In  order  to  answer  that  question,  a  man  now  lay 
down  on  his  back,  with  a  bow  fastened  to  his  left 
leg.  On  the  movement  of  that  bow  the  whole  issue 
depended.  If  it  moved  one  way  the  ice  would  break  ; 
if  the  other  the  ice  would  hold.  With  awe  the 
trembling  Eskimos  watched,  and  suddenly,  the  bow 
began  to  twitch.  "  WTiat  makes  it  move  ?  "  they 
asked.  "Is  it  Torngak,  or  is  it  Jesus  ?  "  There, 
said  the  Eskimos,  lay  the  crucial  test ;  the  god  who 
could  move  the  bow  was  the  god  for  them,  and 
Tuglavina  still  held  sway  in  the  land  because  he 
could  perform  that  sort  of  miracle. 

Nor  was  this  the  whole  secret  of  his  influence.  In 
addition  to  working  miracles,  he  pandered  to  the 
people's  love  of  strong  drink.    Still  worse,  Tuglavina 


142        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

corrupted  the  people's  morals.  For  a  few  years  there 
existed  in  Chateau  Bay  a  small  colony,  or  settlement, 
established  by  some  enterprising  English  traders ; 
thither  the  cunning  Tuglavina  conducted  excursion 
parties,  and  there  the  foolish  Eskimos  learned  to 
smoke  tobacco  and  drink  rum.  The  more  the 
Eskimos  saw  of  the  traders  the  more  they  despised 
the  Brethren.  In  the  Mission  stations  there  was  law 
and  order ;   in  the  colony  there  was  fun  and  licence. 

"  You  must  be  economical  with  your  food,"  said 
the  missionaries. 

"  In  the  south,"  replied  the  trippers,  "  we  have  as 
much  to  eat  as  we  like." 

"  You  must  keep  outside  the  palings,"  said  the 
missionaries. 

"In  the  south,"  retorted  the  trippers,  "there  are 
no  palings." 

"  You  must  avoid  strong  drink,"  said  the 
missionaries. 

"  In  the  south,"  said  the  trippers,  "  we  can  get 
rum.  Ha  !  Ha  !  the  warming  rum.  Rum  is  good 
for  the  native." 

By  means,  therefore,  of  these  annual  excursions, 
Tuglavina  led  his  countrymen  into  the  grossest 
iniquities.  On  one  convert,  a  certain  Peter,  the  very 
first-fruit  of  the  Mission,  Tuglavina's  influence  was 
disastrous.  For  a  few  years  Peter  set  a  noble 
example;  then,  enticed  by  Tuglavina,  he  visited 
Chateau  Bay ;  then  he  committed  bigamy  by 
marrying  a  woman  and  her  daughter,  and  finally, 
his  behaviour  became  so  scandalous  that  Bishop 
Spangenberg,  who  was  then  at  Herrnhut,  rebuked 
him  in  a  pastoral  letter.  On  Peter  the  letter  had  not 
the  least  effect.  "  I  love  Brother  Joseph,"  he 
remarked,  "and  I  know  he  is  telling  the  truth;  but 
I  need  these  women  for  myself  and  I  shan't  do 
without  them."     With  most  of  the  converts  it  was 


Labrador.  143 

just  the  same.  Each  man  who  visited  the  colony 
returned  a  rake  ;  most  of  the  converts  now  refused 
to  be  called  by  their  baptismal  names  ;  and  the  poor 
Brethren  were  on  the  verge  of  despair. 

Still  worse,  Tuglavina  instituted  a  reign  of  terror. 
In  order  to  add  to  his  own  dignity,  he  bought  a 
British  officer's  hat,  laced  coat  and  sword,  and 
strutting  about  in  these  regimentals,  he  boasted  of 
the  enemies  he  had  slain.  On  one  of  his  trips  to 
Chateau  Bay  he  took  five  converts  with  him.  One  of 
these,  named  Moses,  he  shot  himself,  two  others  he  had 
secretly  murdered,  the  fourth  died,  he  reported, 
of  blood-poisoning,  and  only  one,  a  woman 
named  Deborah,  returned  to  the  Mission  station. 
Nor  was  Tuglavina  in  the  least  ashamed. 

"Where  is  Moses  ?"  asked  the  bewildered  Brethren. 

"  He  is  lost,"  replied  Tuglavina. 

"  But  where  is  he  gone  ?    over  the  sea  ?  '* 

"  Not  he,"  smiled  Tuglavina,  "  I  killed  him." 

'♦  Killed  him  I     Why  did  you  do  that  ?  " 

"  Because  he  was  a  good-for-nothing." 

By  these  three  methods,  therefore — by  posing  as 
an  angekok,  by  inciting  to  drink  and  immorality, 
and  by  a  series  of  murders — Tuglavina  bade  defiance 
to  the  Brethren.  But  even  he  was  not  beyond 
redemption.  For  some  reason  which  has  never  been 
fully  explained — perhaps  because  when  his  muscles 
grew  flabby  he  was  no  longer  feared  and  respected, 
and  perhaps  because  all  his  wives  deserted  him  and 
left  him  time  for  solitary  reflection — Tuglavina,  in 
his  old  age,  became  a  gentler  and  a  wiser  man,  and  1793 
repenting  sincerely  of  all  his  abominations,  he  not 
only  became  a  Christian,  noted  for  his  humiUty, 
but  even  rendered  service  as  a  lay  preacher. 

4.     The  Revival,  1799—1804. 
The   result   was   even   better   than   the   Brethren    1799-1804 


144        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

hoped.  For  about  ten  years  after  Tuglavina's 
conversion,  the  Brethren  noticed  a  slow  and  steady 
improvement  in  the  general  conduct  of  the  people  ; 
other  angekoks  followed  Tuglavina's  example;  and 
finally,  in  1804,  there  spread  along  the  whole  coast 
a  revival  which  the  Brethren  themselves  described 
as  a  Pentecost.  Let  us  look  at  two  or  three  typical 
cases. 

The  first  case  was  that  of  an  angekok  named 
Kapick.  For  some  years  this  notorious  impostor 
was  one  of  Tuglavina's  most  powerful  agents  ;  on 
several  occasions  he  had  declared  that  if  the  people 
did  not  commit  certain  sins,  Torngak  himself  would 
strike  them  dead;  and  now,  one  memorable  night 
(November  12th,  1799)  he  beheld  a  celestial 
phenomenon  which  filled  him  with  terror.  The 
story  must  not  be  dismissed  as  a  mere  legend.  Accord- 
ing to  the  Brethren  themselves,  there  really  was  some- 
thing strange  in  the  sky,  and  the  same  phenomenon 
was  observed  in  Greenland.  For  several  hours 
it  seemed  to  them  as  though  the  stars  were  falling  ; 
these  stars  were  red-gold  in  colour,  and  appeared, 
so  the  Brethren  said,  to  be  about  eighteen  inches 
in  diameter  ;  and  Kapick,  who,  in  the  services  at 
Hopedale,  had  heard  the  Brethren  read  the  words, 
"  And  the  stars  shall  fall  from  heaven,"  drew  the  very 
natural  conclusion  that  the  Second  Coming  was  close 
at  hand.f  Forthwith,  therefore,  Kapick  became  a 
Christian  ;  forthwith  he  ran  from  hut  to  hut,  preach- 
ing the  Gospel  with  fervour;  and  the  Brethren, 
taking  the  tide  at  the  flood,  distributed  among  the 
people  copies,  in  the  Eskimo  tongue,  of  the  Passion 
History. 

The  next  case  was  that  of  a  sinful  woman.     At  the 

•f  Was  this  phenomenon  merely  the  Aurora  Borealis  ?  No.  In 
Labrador  the  Aurora  Borealis  is  a  fairly  common  sight ;  and 
this  appearance  in  1799  was  something  quite  unuaual. 


Labrador.  145 

close  of  a  service  in  Hopedale,  this  -woman,  to  the 
missionary's  surprise,  made  the  amazing  declaration 
that  she  was  the  "  wickedest  "  person  in  the  country. 
In  the  past,  like  most  Eskimos,  she  had  been  re- 
markably self-complacent ;  now,  feeling  unfit  for 
human  society,  she  lay  down  to  sleep  among  the 
dogs,  and  the  missionary  rightly  regarded  her  case 
as  a  sign  that  a  new  spirit  was  at  work. 

The  next  case  was  that  of  a  man  named  Siksigak. 
His  conduct  was  certainly  remarkable.  First,  being 
tired  of  his  wife,  he  took  her  back  to  her  mother  ; 
then,  being  rebuked  by  his  own  mother,  he  fled  in 
terror  to  the  Mission-house,  and,  falling  down  at 
the  missionary's  feet,  exclaimed  :  "  I'm  a  sinner. 
I  am  lost.  I  am  going  to  hell."  Then,  acting  on 
the  missionary's  suggestion,  he  restored  his  injured 
wife  to  favour,  became  a  model  husband,  and 
preached  the  Gospel  with  singular  power  both  at 
Hopedale  and  at  Nain. 

Meanwhile,  the  Brethren  had  made  a  remarkable 
discovery.  In  addition  to  Tugla\4na,  another 
Satanic  force  had,  during  all  the  thirty  years,  been 
at  work ;  that  force,  to  state  the  truth  bluntly, 
was  sodomy  in  its  worst  forms  ;  and,  as  the  people 
now  abandoned  this  vice,  the  great  revival  became 
the  means  of  a  genuine  moral  revolution.  In 
the  past  the  people  had  been  not  only  murderers 
and  robbers,  but  fornicators,  adulterers,  and 
sodomites ;  now  they  were  learning  to  be  both 
honest  and  pure,  and  thus  they  acquired  new 
vigour  of  body  and  new  moral  ideals.  For  this 
reason  the  Great  Revival  was  a  movement  of  the 
highest  value.  It  saved  the  Eskimos  of  Labrador 
from  destruction. 


Chapter  XI. 

THE   MISSION  TO   THE  JEWS, 
1738—1742. 

As  Zinzendorf  pondered  on  the  great  missionary 
problem,  he  gradually  came  to  the  conclusion  that 
while  the  Church  of  Christ  was  justified  in  sending  the 
Gospel  to  the  heathen,  her  first  duty  was  to  preach 
to  the  Jews,  and  speaking  at  a  meeting  in  London 
(March  7th,  1743)  soon  after  his  return  from  North 
America,  where,  as  he  sincerely  believed,  he  had 
discovered  the  Lost  Ten  Tribes,  he  solemnly  declared 
that  until  the  Jews  were  converted,  until  Christ 
Himself  appeared  to  them  and  showed  them  His 
wounds,  and  until,  like  St.  Thomas,  they  fell  at 
His  feet  and  adored  Him  as  God,  not  a  single  heathen 
nation  would  accept  the  Christian  religion.  In 
this  idea  we  find  the  key  to  Zinzendorf's  missionary 
policy.  In  a  few  years,  he  said,  Christ  would  appear 
to  the  Jews  ;  that  appearance  would  bring  about 
their  conversion,  and  then  the  Jews  themselves  would 
become  the  most  powerful  preachers  of  the  Gospel. 
With  their  aid  the  Christian  religion  would  triumph  ; 
without  it,  it  could  appeal  only  to  a  few.  "Let  us 
then,"  he  insisted,  "concentrate  our  attention  on 
the  Jews  ;  let  us  now  prepare  their  minds  for  the 
coming  of  Christ ;  and  meanwhile,  till  that  miracle 
occurs,  let  us  possess  our  souls  in  patience." 

His  ideas  had  not  been  hastily  formed.  During 
the  previous  twenty-four  years  he  had  kept  in  close 
touch  with  Jews.  In  1719,  e.g.,  he  inserted 
a  clause  about  the  Jews  in  the  rules  of  his  "  Order 
of  the  Mustard  Seed " ;  in  1720,  while  at  his 
aunt's  house  at  Castell,  he  made  the  acquaint- 
ance   of    a    Jewish    girl    who    was    being    prepared 

(146) 


The  Mission  to  the  Jews.  147 

for  baptism,  and  not  only  acted  as  sponsor,  but 
composed  a  hj-mn  for  the  occasion  ;  in  1721,  while  at 
Dresden,  he  appealed  to  the  Jews  of  that  city 
through  the  pages  of  his  magazine,  "  The  Dresden 
Socrates " ;  in  1730,  he  preached  to  Jews  at 
Berleborg  in  the  Wetterau ;  in  1731,  he  preached 
to  Jews  at  Hermhut,  and  even  arranged  that 
all  who  cared  to  stay  should  receive  suitable 
employment ;  and  further,  in  1736,  after  he 
had  been  banished  from  Saxony,  and  made 
his  headquarters  in  the  Wetterau,  he  repeatedly 
visited  the  Jews  who  lived  around  Ronneburg  Castle, 
ate  black  bread  at  their  tables,  invited  the  children 
to  tea  in  his  o\\'n  house,  had  the  poorest  children 
taught  and  fed,  and  told  them  all,  young  and  old, 
the  story  of  the  Redeemer.  At  last,  it  is  said,  he  1736 
had  an  experience  which  made  him  more  enthu- 
siastic than  ever.  According  to  the  author  of  that 
delightful  book,  "  Zinzendorf  in  the  Wetterau  " — 
a  romance  based  on  fact — Zinzendorf,  one  bright 
June  evening,  met  a  certain  Rabbi  Abraham ;  and, 
after  the  two  had  shaken  hands,  the  Count  made  an 
endeavoiu"  to  gain  his  confidence.  "  Gray  hairs," 
he  said,  "  are  a  c^o^^'n  of  glory.  I  can  see  from  your 
face  and  the  look  in  your  eyes  that  you  have  had 
much  experience  both  of  heart  and  of  life.  In  the 
name  of  the  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob  let 
us  be  friends."  On  the  Rabbi  these  simple  words 
had  a  strange  effect.  For  the  first  time  in  his  long 
life  he  had  been  addressed  kindly  by  a  Christian  ; 
henceforth  he  and  the  Count  were  friends,  and  a  few 
days  later  the  Rabbi  unburdened  his  soul. 

As  the  two  ascended  a  wooded  hill — one  morning, 
a  little  before  sunrise — the  old  man  wept  and  wrung 
his  hands,  and  there,  before  them,  stood  a  Church, 
with  a  golden  cross  on  the  spire. 

"  My  heart,"  said  the  Rabbi,  "  is  longing  for  the 


148        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

dawn.  I  am  sick,  yet  know  not  what  ails  me.  I 
am  looking  for  something,  yet  I  know  not  what 
I  seek.  I  am  like  one  who  is  chased,  yet  I  see  no 
enemy,  except  the  one  within  me,  my  old  evil  heart." 
Never  had  Zinzendorf  been  more  profoundly  im- 
pressed. The  more  he  listened  to  the  old  man,  the 
more  convinced  he  became  that  once  again  he  had 
found  a  Candace-Soul ;  and  speaking  with  the  tongue 
of  a  poet,  he  told  the  story  of  Calvary.  And 
meanwhile  the  sun  had  risen,  and  the  cross  was 
bathed  in  light.  To  Zinzendorf  the  sight  was  pro- 
vidential. There,  on  the  Church  spire,  shone  the 
sign   of  God's   love. 

"  See  there,  Abraham,"  said  the  Count,  "  a  sign 
from  heaven  for  you.  The  God  of  your  fathers  has 
placed  the  Cross  before  you,  and  now  the  rising 
sun  from  on  high  has  tinged  it  with  heavenly  glory." 

"So  be  it,"  replied  the  Rabbi,  "  blessed  be  the 
Lord  who  has  had  mercy  on  me." 

In  spite,  however,  of  this  experience,  the  Count 
1735^39  acted  with  caution.  During  the  next  three  years  he 
continued  to  study  the  problem,  and  the  question 
that  troubled  him  was  how,  and  in  what  form,  should 
the  Gospel  he  preached.  Step  by  step,  he  arrived  at 
the  solution.  At  a  Synod  held  at  Marienborn  (1736), 
he  had  already  informed  the  Brethren  that  he  was 
1738  studying  the  problem  ;  then,  just  as  an  experiment, 
he  allowed  Leonard  Dober  to  preach  in  the  Jewish 
quarter  at  Amsterdam ;  then  he  published  an 
elaborate  treatise,  declaring  that  no  Jew  could  be 
saved  unless  he  believed  both  in  the  Deity  and  in  the 
Atonement  of  Christ ;  then,  in  a  volume  entitled 
"  Random  Gleanings,"  he  made  a  fervent  appeal  to 
the  Christian  public  (1739) ;  and  then,  after  meeting  a 
Jew  on  his  way  home  from  St.  Thomas,  he  decided 
to  begin  the  work  in  earnest.  On  two  funda- 
mental  points    he   had   now   arrived    at   a   definite 


The  Mission  to  the  Jews.  149 

decision.  The  first  was  the  nature  of  the  message, 
and  that  message  was  "  Jesus  is  God."  The  second 
was  the  divinely  appointed  preacher,  and  that 
preacher  was  a  learned  theologian,  Samuel 
Lieberkiihn. 

For  a  very  strange  reason,  however,  Zinzendorf  s 
scheme  miscarried.  Between  him  and  Lieberkiihn 
there  was  a  fundamental  difference.  For  some  years 
before  he  received  his  appointment  to  Amsterdam, 
Samuel  Lieberkiihn,  like  the  Count  himself,  had  often 
come  into  close  contact  with  Jews,  and  one  result 
of  his  experience  was  that,  while  he  had  the  deepest 
respect  for  Zinzendorf,  he  had  formed  his  own 
ideas  about  the  best  method  of  preaching  the  Gospel. 
The  difference  between  the  men  may  be  briefly 
stated.  According  to  Zinzendorf,  the  preacher 
should  begin  with  definite  dogma,  and  lay  all  the 
stress  on  the  Deity  of  Christ;  according  to  Lieberkiihn 
this  dogma,  being  rather  offensive  to  the  Jews,  should 
at  first  be  kept  in  the  background,  and  the  preacher, 
therefore,  should  begin,  not  by  stating  that  Jesus 
was  God,  but  by  showing  that  He  could  save  from 
sin.  According  to  the  Count,  theology  should  come 
first  and  experience  second  ;  according  to  Lieberkiihn, 
experience  first  and  theology  second ;  and  the 
question  has  often  been  discussed  which  of  the  two 
was  in  the  right.  Let  us  now  see  how  Lieberkuhn 
applied  his  methods. 

For  two  years  Lieberkiihn  lived  in  the  Jewish  1739>41 
quarter  at  Amsterdam.  At  that  time  the  Jews  on 
the  continent  were  divided  into  two  classes, 
Rabbinites,  i.e.,  those  who  accepted  the  Talmud,  and 
Karaites,  those  who  rejected  it,  and  as  the  Amsterdam 
Jews  were  Rabbinites,  Lieberkiihn  soon  perceived 
that  he  would  have  to  act  with  caution.  As  long  as 
they  accepted  the  Talmud,  there  was  little  chance 
that  they  would  give  him  a  hearing.     In  the  Old 


150        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Testament,  they  said,  God  had  clearly  expounded  the 
way  of  salvation  ;  in  the  Talmud  the  Rabbis  had 
explained  how  that  way  of  salvation  should  be 
interpreted  ;  and  one  part  of  the  Rabbis'  teaching 
was  that  all  Christians  were  sinners,  that  Christ 
Himself  was  a  criminal,  and  that  even  the  use  of  His 
name  polluted  the  lips.  At  the  very  outset, 
therefore,  Lieberkiihn  found  himself  in  an 
atmosphere  of  bitter  hostility  and  suspicion.  Some 
of  the  Jews  thought  that  he  was  a  Jew  ;  others  that 
he  was  a  colporteur  from  Callenberg's  Institutum 
Judaicum ;  and  others  that  he  would  libel  them 
in  a  book.  "What  is  this  evil  dog  doing  here?" 
they  said.  "  He  has  come  to  learn  all  about  us." 
But  Lieberkiihn  soon  gained  their  confidence.  In  order 
to  shew  that  he  was  their  genuine  friend,  he  attended 
the  Synagogue  every  morning  and  evening,  took 
lessons  in  Jewish  law  with  a  Rabbi,  joined  one 
of  their  benefit  societies  and  subscribed  to  their 
charitable  funds,  and  even  abstained  from  eating 
food  which  they  accounted  unclean.  He  was  soon  a 
welcome  guest  in  every  home.  The  Jews  nicknamed 
him  "  Rabbi  Shmuel,"  and,  a  hundred  years  later, 
stories  of  his  goodness  were  still  repeated.  His 
methods  of  work  were  as  follows  : — 

(1)  He  avoided  dogmatic  theology.  He  never 
preached  that  Jesus  was  the  Creator  ;  never  asserted, 
unless  challenged,  that  Jesus  was  God  ;  and  never 
even  referred  to  the  Holy  Trinity.  The  more  a  man 
preached  such  dogmas,  he  said,  the  more  he  would 
be  involved  in  barren  discussions.  "  There  is  nothing 
more  offensive  to  the  Jews,"  he  declared,  "than  the 
doctrine  that  Christ  is  God.  They  cannot  reconcile 
it  with  their  principle,  Jehovah  is  our  God,  and 
Jehovah  alone."  Let  the  Jews,  he  insisted,  first 
be  convinced  of  sin  ;  let  them  turn  to  Christ  for 
redemption ;    and  then,  when  they  found  that  He 


The  Mission  to  the  Jews.  151 

could    save,     they    would    worship    Him    as    God. 

(2)  He  did  not  appeal  to  Old  Testament  prophecy. 
For  this  policy  Lieberkiihn  gave  a  very  good  reason. 
In  the  days  of  the  Apostles,  he  said,  all  Jews 
recognised  that  certain  prophecies  were  Messianic  ; 
since  then,  however,  the  Rabbis  had  given  those 
prophecies  another  meaning,  and,  as  the  Rabbis 
were  implicitly  believed,  argument  on  those  lines 
would  be  useless. 

(3)  He  laid  a  great  deal  of  stress  on  the  self- 
consciousness  of  Jesus,  and  thereby  employed  the 
method  afterwards  elaborated  by  Canon  Liddon.f 
Jesus,  said  Lieberkiihn,  regarded  Himself  as  the 
Messiah,  and  that  fact  must  be  taken  into  considera- 
tion. Did  not  the  High  Priest  say  to  Jesus  :  "  I 
adjure  thee  by  the  living  God  that  thou  tell  us 
whether  thou  be  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  the  Son 
of  the  Blessed  "  ?  And  did  not  Jesus  answer  dis- 
tinctly, "  I  am "  ?  For  making  that  claim,  said 
Lieberkiihn,  Jesus  was  condemned  to  death,  and 
the  fact  that  He  was  willing  to  suffer  proved  at 
least  that  He  was  sincere. 

(4)  He  laid  great  stress  on  the  Resurrection. 
*'  If  Jesus,"  he  argued,  "  had  been  an  evil  doer,  God 
would  never  have  raised  Him  from  the  dead." 

"  What  difference  does  that  make?"  said  a  Jew. 
"  What  does  it  matter  to  us  whether  He  rose  from  the 
dead  or  not?" 

"It  matters  everything,"  said  another;  "if  the 
Resurrection  is  true,  the  whole  Gospel  must  be  true." 

By  means,  therefore,  of  purely  historical  arguments 
Lieberkiihn  endeavoured  to  prove  that  God  had 
raised  Jesus  from  the  dead.  Jesus,  he  said,  had  really 
been  seen,  not  merely,  as  some  Jews  held,  by  two 
hysterical  women,  but  by  the  eleven  Apostles  and 

t  "  Th»  Dirinity  of  our  Lord."     L«ctur*  IV. 


152        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

by  five  hundred  Jews.  The  same  argument  has  often 
been  used  in  our  days.  It  is  used  by  A.  B.  Bruce  in 
his  "Apologetics,"  and  by  many  other  theologians. 

(5)  Finally,  like  Dr.  Dale  in  his  "  Living  Christ 
and  the  Four  Gospels,"  Lieberkiihn  laid  great  stress 
on  what  he  called  the  "  Inward  Witness."  "  We 
Brethren,"  he  said,  "  are  certain  that  Jesus  lives, 
because  we  experience  His  saving  power." 

Thus,  by  purely  scientific  methods — by  appealing  to 
undoubted  facts — did  Lieberkiihn  deal  with  the  Jews 
at  Amsterdam ;  most  of  his  hearers  loved  him  fondly, 
and  some  were  half-convinced  by  his  arguments  ; 
and,  personally,  I  incline  to  the  opinion  that  if  he  had 
been  allowed  to  continue  his  work,  his  efforts  would 
probably  have  been  crowned  with  success. 

At  this  point,  however,  a  great  disaster  occurred. 
As  Lieberkiihn  still  refused  to  preach  the  Deity  of 
Christ,  an  absurd  rumour  spread  in  Moravian  circles 
that  he  was  a  Unitarian,  and  Zinzendorf,  who 
inclined  to  the  same  opinion,  rebuked  Lieberkiihn 
for  his  methods  of  work.  He  even  objected  to 
Lieberkiihn's  statement  that  God  had  raised  Jesus 
from  the  dead. 

"  Nonsense,"  said  the  fiery  Count,  using  the 
English  word.  "  He  died  and  rose  of  His  own  free 
will.  He  said  distinctly,  '  I  have  power  to  take  it 
again,'  and  when  the  Apostles  said  that  God  raised 
Him  up,  they  were  mere  Unitarians  themselves." 

Filled,  then,  with  these  suspicions,  the  Count 
recalled  Lieberkiihn  from  Amsterdam,  and  the  Mission 
to  the  Jews  turned  out  a  failure — not  because,  as  Dr. 
Dalman  suggests,  Zinzendorf  offended  the  Jews 
by  insisting  on  the  Deity  of  Christ,  but  rather  because, 
when  he  had  a  good  man,  he  had  not  the  wisdom 
to  give  him  a  fair  chance.  By  dismissing  Lieberkiihn 
from  office,  Zinzendorf  gave  the  Mission  to  the  Jews 


The  Mission  to  the  Jews.  158 

its  death-blow.  For  the  next  few  years  he  merely 
played  with  the  project.  First,  he  sent  to  Amsterdam 
a  theologian  after  his  own  heart,  Otto  William  Hasse 
(1741-3),  who,  being  delicate,  speedily  died  ;  then 
he  asked  a  young  man  and  woman,  David  Kirchhof 
and  Esther  Griinbeck,  to  marry  and  settle  down  at 
Amsterdam ;  then,  soon  after  the  wedding,  he 
changed  his  mind,  and  after  his  return  from  America 
(1743)  he  issued  a  solemn  proclamation  to  all  Jews 
that  in  a  very  few  years  Christ  Himself  would  appear 
in  the  flesh,  shew  the  Jews  His  wounds,  and  thereby, 
in  a  miraculous  manner,  bring  about  their  con- 
version. "  Hear,  O  !  Israel,"  he  announced,  '*  the 
voice  of  the  God  of  Jacob.  He  will  in  these  days 
reveal  Himself  to  you.  He  will  shew  you  the  power 
and  majesty  of  the  great  Messiah  !  He  has  already 
taken  the  work  in  hand.  The  time  is  not  far  off.  I 
kiss  you  in  spirit ;  I  wait  with  you  for  the  coming  of 
your  Redeemer."f 

His  plan  of  campaign  was  now  entirely  altered. 
As  long  as  Christ  delayed  His  expected  appearance, 
so  long,  said  the  Count,  would  further  preaching  to 
the  Jews  be  useless  ;  and,  therefore,  the  Brethren's 
duty  was,  not  to  preach,  but  to  pray  and  wait  for 
the  appearance  of  Christ.  "  The  time  for  the  Jews," 
he  declared,  "  has  not  yet  come." 

His  colleagues  took  him  at  his  word.  Instead  of 
preaching  the  Gospel  to  the  Jews,  the  Moravian 
Church,  since  then,  has  simply  been  content  to 
wait  and  pray.  In  the  Sunday  Liturgy  there  is 
the  prayer,  "  Have  mercy  on  Thy  ancient  covenant 
people,  the  Jews  ;  deliver  them  from  their  blind- 
ness." In  1889  the  General  Synod  recommended 
prayer  for  the  Jews  on,  or  near,  the  Day  of  Atone- 
ment, and  recently  the  British  Moravian  Prayer 
Union  has  adopted  the  petition,   "  Bless  the  first- 

t  "I^iwillige   Nachle«e,"    VoL    III.,    pp.    62 — 69. 


154        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

fruits   of  Israel,   until   the   fulness   of  the   Gentiles 
be  come  in,  and  so  all  Israel  shall  be  saved." 

Thus,  by  his  autocratic  conduct,  did  Zinzendorf 
destroy  Lieberkiihn's  life  work.  For  three  good 
reasons,  however,  Lieberkiihn's  memory  should  be 
held  in  high  honour  : — (1)  His  work  among  the  Jews 
was  not  an  absolute  failure.  In  a  volume  entitled 
"  At  Home  and  Abroad,"f  there  is  an  instructive 
story  told  by  a  modern  convert,  Rabbi  Joseph. 
He  is  speaking  about  his  grandfather,  and  says, "  There 
came  in  those  days  some  famous  preacher  from  Zeist, 
who  preached  in  one  of  the  churches  to  convert 
our  Brethren  to  Christianity,  as  you  do.  The 
preacher  was  considered  by  many  people  a  converted 
Israelite,  and  was  therefore  called  '  Rabbi  Shmuel.' 
He  exercised  a  magic  power  over  all  who  listened  to 
him,  and  hundreds  of  Jews  flocked  to  hear  him, 
and  amongst  them  my  grandfather,  who,  from  being 
the  greatest  enemy  to  Christianity,  became,  to  the 
great  consternation  of  the  whole  congregation  of  the 
Israelites,  its  greatest  defender."  (2)  Secondly,  j 
1769  Lieberkiihn,  anticipating  Tischendorf,  published  an 
excellent  "  Harmony  of  the  Gospels."  This  book 
was  often  translated,  and  proved  of  great  service 
in  the  Mission  Field,  and  the  last  part,  containing 
the  "  Passion  History,"  is  still  used  in  every  branch 
of  the  Moravian  Church.  (3)  Thirdly,  Lieberkiihn, 
as  a  theologian,  was  in  advance  of  his  times.  In 
order  to  prove  that  Jesus  was  the  Messiah  he  appealed 
to  the  double  evidence  of  history  and  experience, 
and  most  theologians  will  admit  that  his  methods 
were  thoroughly  sound. 


fA  description  of  the  English  and  Continental  Missions  of  the 
London  Society  for  promoting  Christianity  amongst  the  Jews, 
1900,  p.  89. 


Chapter  XII. 

THE   FLYING   SCOUTS,    1734—1822. 

As  long  as  the  Lord  delayed  His  coming  to  the 
Jews,  Count  Zinzendorf  adhered  to  his  conviction 
that  no  heathen  nation,  as  such,  could  or  would 
accept  the  Christian  religion.  The  time  for  the 
heathen,  he  said,  had  not  yet  arrived,  and  therefore, 
instead  of  strengthening  the  causes  already  estab- 
lished— such  as  those  in  the  West  Indies,  Greenland, 
and  North  America — he  spent  large  sums  of  money 
in  sending  messengers  in  all  directions  in  search  of 
what  he  called  Candace-Souls.  His  policy,  though 
strange,  was  perfectly  clear.  Each  nation,  he 
declared,  possessed  a  few  chosen  spirits  in  search 
of  the  truth  ;  such  men  he  called  Candace-Souls, 
and  the  chief  business  of  the  Church  of  Christ  was 
to  find  them  and  gratify  their  aspirations. 

(1)  Lapland.  He  began  by  sending  three  men,  1734 
Andrew  Grassman,  Daniel  Schneider,  and  John 
Nitschmann,  to  Lapland.  The  three  men  embarked 
at  Stockholm  and  sailed  up  the  east  coast  of  Sweden 
as  far  as  Uleaborg.  At  this  place  Andrew  Grassman 
met  a  few  Lapps  ;  these  men  took  him  across  the 
snow  to  Kreusano,  and  there  the  parish  priest 
informed  him  that  his  parish  was  at  least  three 
hundred  miles  square.  Further  ahead,  said  the 
priest,  there  lived  real  heathen ;  these  heathen 
Andrew  Grassman  ^dsited,  and  found,  to  his  surprise, 
that  they  had  no  vices  except  those  which  they 
had  learned  from  so-called  Christians.  In  1739 
the  Count  sent  out  another  expedition.  His  agents 
were  Behr  and  Ostergren.  For  two  years  these 
men  lived  in  a  little  market  towTi  about  two  hundred 
miles  north  of  Tomea ;     there    they    discovered    a 

U55) 


156        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

wooden  church,  where  the  minister  preached  about 
once  a  year ;  and  further,  they  were  correctly 
informed  that  Lapland,  at  least  in  theory,  was 
divided  into  parishes.  From  these  facts  Zinzendorf 
drew  his  own  conclusions.  Lapland,  he  said,  was 
already  provided  for,  and  no  Moravian  missionaries 
would  be  needed. 

1736  (2)       The      Samoyedes.     On      this      expedition 

Zinzendorf 's  agents — Andrew  Grassman,  John 
Schneider,  and  Mieksch — made  a  very  serious 
mistake.  Instead  of  dealing  openly  with  the  Russian 
Government,  they,  when  taking  out  their  passports, 
described  themselves  as  mechanics.  At  St. 
Petersburg  they  were  caught  preaching,  and  thus 
the  little  fraud  was  discovered,  and  the  Empress  of 
Russia,  Catherine  XL,  who  was  duly  informed, 
not  only  sent  them  back  to  Herrnhut,  but  warned 
them  that,  if  they  repeated  the  offence,  she  would 
have  them  burned  alive.  Thus  did  three  Moravian 
missionaries  learn  that  deceit,  even  in  a  holy  cause, 
is  both  a  crime  and  a  blunder. 

1736  (3)     Guinea,  on  the  West  Coast  of  Africa.     The 

two  agents  were  Christian  Protten  and  Henry  Huckoff. 
As  Protten  had  been  born  in  Guinea,  and  could  speak 
the  native  language,  the  Count  naturally  hoped  for 
some  success.  Nevertheless,  the  expedition  was  a 
failure.  Protten  tried,  but  tried  in  vain,  to  open  a 
school  at  Elmina ;  Huckoff  died,  and  Protten, 
fearing  to  remain  alone,  returned  forthwith  to 
Europe.  At  the  special  request,  however,  of  the 
Guinea  Company,  the  Brethren,  soon  after  Zinzen- 
dorf's  death,  attempted  to  renew  the  enterprise. 
In  1768-9  nine  Moravian  missionaries  landed  in 
Guinea  ;  all  nine  speedily  died  on  the  spot ;  and  the 
Brethren,  for  obvious  reasons,  abandoned  the 
project. 


The  Flying  Scouts.  157 

(4)  Ceylon.      The   two    agents    were    Dr.    EUer      1739 
and  David  Nitschmann  III.     At  Colombo  they  made 

the  rather  painful  discovery  that  a  certain  libellous 
"  Pastoral  Letter,"  published  a  few  years  earlier  in 
Amsterdam,  in  which  the  Brethren  were  described 
as  heretics,  had  been  greedily  devoured  by  the 
Dutch  Clergy,  and  now  these  clergy  even  asserted 
that  the  Brethren  were  atheists.  To  stay  in  Colombo, 
therefore,  was  impossible.  At  the  Governor's  sug- 
gestion, they  retreated  inland,  settled  down  in  a 
village  named  Magorugampell,  and  began  to  preach 
to  the  natives.  Once  more  a  simple  blunder  wrecked 
the  cause.  Instead  of  remaining  at  his  post  in  the 
country.  Dr.  EUer  came  to  Colombo  to  visit  some 
Christian  friends  ;  he  did  not  realise,  of  course,  that 
what  might  be  permitted  in  Europe  was  a  serious 
crime  in  Ceylon.  The  Dutch  clergy  accused  him 
of  sheep-stealing ;  the  Governor  sent  for  both  of 
the  Brethren  and  told  them  to  return  to  the  natives  ; 
and  the  Brethren,  feeling  grossly  insulted,  returned 
forthwith  to  Herrnhut. 

(5)  Algiers.     In  order  to  prepare  the  way  for      1739 
this  enterprise.  Count  Zinzendorf  wTote  to  Para\'icini, 

the  Dutch  Consul,  explaining  that  his  only  purpose 
was  to  lead  the  slaves  to  Christ  and  teach  them 
good  conduct.  With  this  letter  Paravicini  appears 
to  have  been  satisfied.  The  chosen  apostle  was 
Abraham  Richter.  For  about  six  months  he  did 
most  excellent  work,  preaching  in  public  on  Fridays, 
visiting  the  slaves  in  their  bagnios  and  attending  to 
the  sick  free  of  charge.  At  this  point,  however, 
Algiers  was  visited  by  a  pestilence  ;  the  number  of  1740 
deaths  soon  rose  to  30,000  ;  and  among  the  victims 
was  Abraham  Richter  himself. 

(6)  Constantinople.    In  this  enterprise  Zinzendorf      1740 
had  a  special  purpose.     As  the  first  two  missionaries 


158        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

to  Bohemia  and  Moravia,  Cyril  and  Methodius,  had 
come  from  the  Greek  Church  in  Constantinople, 
and  as,  therefore,  there  existed  a  certain  affinity 
between  the  Greek  Church  and  the  Moravian  Church, 
Count  Zinzendorf  naturally  hoped  that,  if  he  could 
enlist  the  sympathy  of  the  local  Patriarch,  the  door 
might  be  opened  for  mission-work  in  the  East. 
Never  did  Zinzendorf  show  more  practical  skill. 
First,  he  selected  as  his  agent  a  good  Greek  scholar, 
Arvid  Gradin  ;  then  he  prepared  an  address  to  the 
Patriarch,  sketching  the  history  of  the  Moravian 
Church,  and  asking  the  Patriarch  to  intercede  with 
the  Holy  Synod  of  the  Greek  Church  in  Russia  ; 
and  then  he  had  the  address  translated  into  Greek 
by  Arvid  Gradin  himself.  With  this  document  in 
his  possession  Arvid  Gradin  went  to  Constantinople, 
and  in  due  time  was  introduced  to  the  Patriarch. 
The  interview  closed  as  such  interviews  often  do. 
In  his  manner  the  Patriarch  was  friendly,  and  Gradin 
reclined  by  his  side  on  a  couch,  drank  coffee,  and  sniffed 
a  bowl  of  surat-smoke.  With  all  his  suave  polite- 
ness, however,  the  Patriarch,  like  most  ecclesiastics, 
was  cautious,  and,  after  due  deliberation,  he  explained 
that  for  two  reasons  definite  action  was  impossible. 
First,  he  was  afraid  of  offending  the  Roman  Catholics, 
and  secondly,  he  was  equally  afraid  of  offending  the 
Russian  Government.  With  this  disappointing 
answer  Gradin  returned  home. 
1740  (7)     Wallachia.     At  that   time   Wallachia,   now 

the  southern  portion  of  Roumania,  was  a  small 
autonomous  State.  As  Brethren  had  settled  here  in 
former  times,  the  Count  conjectured,  with  some 
plausibility,  that,  just  as  in  Bohemia  and  Moravia, 
there  might  still  be  left  a  "  hidden  seed,"  and  his 
two  agents,  Andrew  Jaschke  and  Zechariah  Hirschel, 
were  so  warmly  welcomed  by  the  Hospodar,  that 
Zinzendorf  hoped,  before  very  long,  to  send  a  larger 


The  Flying  Scouts.  159 

force.      But  the  next  Hospodar  was  hostile,  and  the 
project  had  to.be  abandoned. 

(8)  The  Calmucks.  According  to  Zinzendorf  1742-8 
himself,  the  chief  object  of  this  expedition  was,  not 
to  preach  the  Gospel,  but  rather  to  discover  what 
special  sins  the  heathen  Calmucks  committed.  His 
first  three  agents — Conrad  Lange,  Zechariah  Hirschel, 
and  Michael  Kund — had  a  most  remarkable  experi- 
ence. At  St.  Petersburg  they  were  accused  of  being 
spies ;  the  Government,  after  pronouncing  them 
innocent,  kept  them  in  prison  five  years  ;  and  the 
Brethren,  who,  like  St.  Paul  at  Rome,  were  allowed 
to  receive  visitors,  enjoyed  the  experience  so  much 
that  they  called  their  cell  a  "  Hall  of  Grace." 

But  the  next  expedition  was  far  more  encouraging.  1764 
In  response  to  a  special  invitation  from  the  Empress 
Catherine  II.,  who  promised  complete  religious 
liberty,  and  said  that  she  would  be  delighted  if  all 
her  heathen  subjects  became  Christians,  the  Brethren, 
in  1764,  sent  out  a  large  colony,  and  built,  on  the  River 
Volga,  a  flourishing  little  settlement  named  Sarepta  ; 
there  they  discovered  a  mineral  spring  and  stationed 
a  resident  physician  ;  and  so  famous  did  Sarepta 
become  that  gouty  grandees  came  from  Berlin  and 
Moscow.  For  many  years  Sarepta  was  the  centre 
of  Moravian  work  among  the  Calmucks.  In  theory, 
those  Calmucks  were  Buddhists,  and  held  that  there 
was  not  much  difference  between  their  religion  and 
Christianity ;  in  fact,  like  the  people  of  Western 
Tibet,  they  were  lama-ridden,  worshipped  thousands 
of  Buchan,  i.e.,  departed  spirits,  turned  Prayer-mills, 
and  believed  in  the  transmigration  of  souls  ;  and  so 
firmly  did  they  hold  their  behefs  that  the  Brethren 
baptized  only  one  convert.  For  this  reason,  in  1800, 
the  Calmuck  Mission  was  abandoned. 

At  the  special  request,  however,  of  the  British  and    1815-'22 
Foreign  Bible  Society,  which  had  a  Branch  at  St. 


160         A  Htstory  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Petersburg,  where  the  local  Secretary,  Isaac  Schmidt, 
happened  to  be  a  Moravian,  the  Brethren  made  an 
attempt  to  renew  the  Mission.  The  Czar, 
Alexander  I.,  supported  the  scheme  ;  two  Brethren 
settled  down  near  Sarepta,  and  a  small  congregation 
of  twenty-three  was  formed.  For  seven  years  there 
was  uninterrupted  success ;  then  the  Russian 
Government  ordered  the  Brethren  to  hand  their 
converts  over  to  the  Greek  Church,  and  the  Brethren, 
being  compelled  to  obey,  retired  from  the  scene. 

1743-7  (9)  Livonia.  In  order  to  prepare  for  this 
Mission,  Zinzendorf  sent  Arvid  Gradin  to  St.  Peters- 
burg, with  a  letter  to  the  Holy  Synod.  The  great 
scholar  had  a  dismal  experience.  For  no  very 
special  reason  the  Government  kept  him  three  years 
in  prison,  and  then,  as  he  had  committed  no  crime, 
allowed  him  to  return  to  Germany ;  and,  mean- 
while, his  letter  to  the  Synod  had  not  even  been 
answered. 

1747  (10)     Persia.     For  this  enterprise  Zinzendorf  gave 

a  charming  reason.  As  the  Kurds  were  descended 
from  the  "  Wise  Men  from  the  East  " — so,  at  least, 
an  Armenian  Bishop  informed  him — the  Count 
held  that  they  had  a  special  claim  on  the  attention 
of  the  Church;  and  hearing  that  medical  work  was 
needed  in  Persia,  and  also  that  the  Kurds  were  seeking 
a  new  religion,  he  now  sent  out  two  qualified  medical 
men,  Hocker  and  Riiffer.  The  two  doctors  had  a 
series  of  strange  adventures.  At  Aleppo,  after  attend- 
ing the  English  Church,  they  slept  in  a  billiard-room, 
and  sang  evening  hymns  on  the  house-roof.  At 
Bagdad  they  were  entertained  by  Carmelite  priests. 
At  a  lonely  spot  beyond  Bagdad  they  were  attacked 
and  robbed  by  highwaymen.  But  at  Ispahan,  the 
Persian  capital,  they  met  with  marvellous  kindness. 
The  British  Consul  supplied  them  with  money  ;    the 


The  Flying  Scouts.  161 

Jesuits,  the  Dominicans  and  the  Carmelites  brought 
them  clothing ;  and  the  British  Ambassador  tried  to 
obtain  them  compensation  for  their  losses.  For  one 
simple  reason,  however,  the  two  Doctors  never  dis- 
covered the  Kurds.  The  country  was  in  a  state  of 
civil  war,  and  the  road  to  Kirman,  where  the 
Kurds  lived,  was  blocked.  Soon  afterwards  Riiffer 
died  in  Egypt. 

(11)  Abyssinia.  Once  more  the  Count  was  in  1752 
search  of  Candace -Souls.  As  the  Coptic  Church  was 
said  to  be  fairly  pure,  Zinzendorf  had  a  vague  idea 
that  a  good  medical  man  would  be  sufficient.  His 
agent  was  Dr.  Hocker.  For  about  a  year  Dr.  Hocker 
resided  in  Cairo,  studying  Arabic,  and  then,  having 
mastered  the  language,  he  called  on  the  Patriarch, 
presented  his  credentials,  and  asked  the  Patriarch  to 
sanction  his  Mission  to  the  Copts.  But  the  Patriarch, 
though  very  polite,  made  no  definite  promise.  In- 
stead of  giving  Hocker  the  letter  which  he  required, 
he  composed  a  solemn  non-committal  epistle,  and 
Hocker,  seeing  how  the  land  lay,  sought,  like  Gradin, 
for  assistance  at  Constantinople.  For  one  moment 
there  was  a  gleam  of  hope.  With  the  aid  of  the 
British  Ambassador,  Hocker  obtained  from  the 
Grand  Vizier  a  letter  of  introduction  to  the  Prime 
Minister  of  Abyssinia.  With  this  letter  he  now  re- 
turned to  Cairo ;  there,  to  his  dismay,  he  learned  that, 
as  the  King  of  Abyssinia  had  just  died,  his  letter  was 
waste  paper;  and  feeling  that  further  efforts  were 
useless  he  returned  to  Herrnhut.  In  spite,  however, 
of  this  failure.  Count  Zinzendorf  next  year  sent  out 
another  expedition.  His  agents  now  were  Dr.  Hocker,  1756 
George  Pilder,  and  Henry  Cossart.  At  Cairo,  Pilder 
and  Cossart  dined  with  the  Bishop  of  Libya,  and  then, 
for  some  unknown  reason,  Cossart  returned  to 
Herrnhut.  The  other  two  Brethren  had  an  interest- 
ing  adventure.     As   they   sailed   along   the   eastern 


162        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

shore  of  the  Red  Sea,  on  their  way  from  Suez  to 
Jedda,  a  seaport  due  west  of  Mecca,  the  ship 
foundered  in  a  storm.  For  nineteen  days  Hocker 
and  Pilder  Hved  on  the  barren  island  of  Hassan, 
off  the  coast  of  Arabia.  At  Jedda,  Dr.  Hocker 
received  an  invitation  to  pay  a  professional  visit 
to  the  Prime  Minister  of  Abyssinia,  who,  he  was  told, 
suffered  from  boils  on  the  face.  For  three  cogent 
reasons,  however,  Dr.  Hocker  declined  the  invitation. 
He  had  lost  his  medicine-chest ;  his  friend  Pilder  was 
ill ;  and  the  Lot,  when  consulted,  answered  "  No." 
And  thus,  when  success  was  possible,  the  Brethren 
returned  home. 
1768  For  the  third   time,   however,   after   Zinzendorfs 

death.  Dr.  Hocker  visited  Egypt,  lodging  this  time 
with  a  French  chemist  at  Cairo.  His  chief  colleagues 
were  John  Danke,  a  cabinet-maker,  John  Antes,  a 
watch-maker,  Dr.  Roller,  another  physician,  Weiniger, 
a  tailor,  and  Herrmann,  a  carpenter  ;  and  the  curious 
feature  of  the  story  is  that  all  the  seven  Brethren 
passed  as  Englishmen.  Dr.  Hocker  was  known  as  the 
English  doctor ;  John  Danke,  who  was  born  in 
Hanover,  boldly  described  himself  as  an  English 
subject, t  and  John  Antes  was  really  an  English- 
man, born  in  North  America.  From  the  com- 
mercial point  of  view  this  was  a  great  advantage. 
The  mere  fact  that  the  Brethren  were  English  was 
taken  as  a  proof  that  they  were  good  workmen. 
"The  English,"  said  a  Turk,  "are  an  honest  people  ; 
their  yea  is  yea,  and  their  nay,  nay  ;  but  you  Copts 
are  false,  and  while  your  words  are  sweet  your  hearts 
are  bitter."  For  this  simple  reason,  therefore,  the 
Brethren  at  Cairo  prospered  greatly  in  business. 
Dr.  Hocker  was  often  summoned  to  attend  high 
officials ;    John    Danke    was    asked    to    make    gun- 

•)■  Danke  was  perfectly  honest.     Hanover  was  then  regarded  as  an 
English  Colony, 


The  Flying  Scouts.  168 

carriages ;  and  judging  by  one  of  Herrmann's  letters, 
the  Brethren  Hved  in  comfort.  The  French  bakers, 
he  reported,  made  dehcious  wheat  bread ;  meat, 
poultry,  butter,  honey,  milk,  and  fruit  abounded  ; 
and  sometimes  the  Brethren  drank,  not  only  Nile- 
water,  but  a  little  wine. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  Brethren  at  Cairo  were 
often  exposed  to  great  danger.  During  the  whole 
of  this  period  there  was  no  stable  government 
in  Egypt.  The  chief  officials  were  certain  Turkish 
Beys  ;  murders  and  highway  robberies  were  common  ; 
and  the  main  object  of  the  officials  was  to  line 
their  own  pockets.  The  most  terrible  experience 
was  that  of  John  Antes.  For  the  crime  of  refusing 
to  hand  over  money  to  a  highwayman,  he  was 
haled  before  a  Bey,  accused  of  being  a  thief,  taken 
to  a  castle,  laid  face  downwards  on  the  carpet, 
bound  round  the  ankles  by  means  of  a  chain  and  a 
stick,  and  bastinadoed  so  severely  that  the  whip, 
which  was  made  of  horse-skin,  felt  like  a  red-hot  iron. 
The  scene  was  a  torch-lighted  room,  several 
spectators  were  present,  and  John  Antes  gave 
himself  up  for  lost.  In  his  own  narrative  Antes 
says  that  the  appointed  number  of  blows  in  such 
cases  was  generally  2,000  ;  that  after  600  blows  the 
ears  began  to  bleed,  and  that  victims  frequently 
died  of  exhaustion. 

"  Gold  !  gold  !  "  whispered  an  officer.  "  Give  the 
Bey  gold,  and  you  will  be  free." 

"  I  have  no  gold,"  said  Antes. 

"  But  what  have  you  got  at  home  ?  "  demanded 
the  Bey. 

"  Nothing  but  a  musket,"  said  Antes. 

"  Hit  the  dog  again,"  roared  the  Bey. 

At  last,  however,  an  officer  intervened  ;  Antes  was 
seated  on  a  donkey  and  taken  home  ;  and,  after 
three  years,  the  swelling  on  his  feet  disappeared. 


164        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Meanwhile,  the  Brethren's  work  in  Egypt  was  of 
an  unusual  nature. f  Instead  of  trying  to  extend  the 
Moravian  Church,  or  turn  Copts  into  Moravians,  the 
Brethren  themselves  attended  the  Coptic  Churches, 
called  on  Coptic  priests,  chatted  in  a  friendly  manner 
on  religious  topics,  and  endeavoured  to  do  good, 
not  by  public  preaching,  but  by  shewing  the  people 
that  man  is  saved,  not  by  good  works  or  ceremonies, 
but  by  a  living  faith  in  the  crucified  Christ.  For  a 
few  years  the  Brethren  were  very  popular.  Dr. 
Hocker  exerted  a  wide  influence  by  translating 
Zinzendorf's  Berlin  Discourses  into  Arabic  ;  Danke 
hired  a  room  at  Behnesse,  a  town  further  up  the 
Nile,  and  there  interviewed  ardent  seekers  after  truth ; 
and  some  Coptic  priests  declared  that  such  charming 
men  as  the  Brethren  they  had  never  met  before. 
Among  the  Brethren's  chief  supporters  were  Ibrahim, 
a  Coptic  priest  of  high  rank,  and  Michael  Baschera, 
a  Turkish  official ;  Danke  even  lodged  for  some 
days  in  the  house  of  a  friendly  Turk ;  and  though, 
in  one  sense,  the  Brethren  gained  no  converts,  they 
do  seem  to  have  exercised  a  certain  evangelical 
influence  in  the  Coptic  Church  as  a  whole.  With 
1783  such  results  they  had  to  rest  content.  At  length 
however,  fierce  opposition  arose,  and  the  Brethren 
were  denounced  as  intruders  ;  and,  not  wishing  to 
create  trouble,  they  retired  from  the  scene. 

1768  (12)    The    Tartars.     In    1768,    two    Brethren, 

Gralisch  and  Gruhl,  crossed  the  Caucasus,  visited 
the  Tartars  at  Inleesha,  and  inquired  whether 
among  them  there  still  survived  any  members  of  the 
"  Hidden  Seed."  The  answer  was  in  the  negative. 
All  the  Tartars  were  Mahometans,  and  Mahometans 
they  intended  to  remain. 

1768ol803    (13)    The    Coromandel    Coast.    For    the    long 

■j-For  details  3ee  J,  W.  Davey'a  articles..  Per.  Aces.  1904. 


The  Flying  Scouts.  165 

period  of  thirty-six  years  the  Brethren,  with  the  full 
approval  of  the  Danish  Government,  conducted  a 
wonderful  "  Garden "  at  Tranquebar ;  there  no 
fewer  than  forty  missionaries  died  in  the  service  ; 
and  the  Brethren  finally  abandoned  the  cause,  not 
because  they  lost  heart,  but  because  they  were  not 
allowed  by  the  local  clergy  to  preach  to  the  heathen 
in  the  neighbourhood. 

(14)  The  Nicobar  Islands.     The  chief  worker    1768-87 
here   was   John    Gotfried    Hansel    (1779-87).       For 

the  special  delectation  of  William  Wilberforce,  this 
man,  in  his  old  age,  wrote  a  delightful  book,  entitled 
"  Letters  on  the  Nicobar  Islands,"  and  therein 
he  explained  fully  why  the  Brethren  had  to  abandon 
the  cause.  First,  they  were  often  on  the  verge  of 
starvation,  and  had  nothing  better  to  eat  than 
swallows'  nests ;  secondly,  they  suffered  from  diseases 
of  the  liver  ;  thirdly,  they  died  in  large  numbers — 
twenty-four  in  a  few  years — from  fever  ;  and  fourthly, 
they  never  succeeded  in  learning  the  native  language. 

(15)  Bengal.     For    the    following    reasons    this    1777-1803 
Mission  also  ended  in  complete  failure  : — (1)  because 

the  missionaries  had  to  earn  their  own  living,  and 
had,  therefore,  little  time  for  preaching  ;  (2)  because 
the  other  Christians  belonged  either  to  the  Greek 
Church  or  to  the  Church  of  Rome,  and,  for  ob\aous 
reasons,  opposed  the  Brethren ;  (3)  because,  on 
account  of  the  caste  system,  they  had  little  chance 
of  coming  into  close  touch  with  the  natives. 

For  the  policy  described  in  this  chapter,  Zinzendorf 
was  sometimes  severely  criticised,  and  some  of  his 
enemies  pointed  out  that,  in  these  apparently  vain 
enterprises,  he  had  sacrificed,  not  only  large  sums  of 
money,  but  also  many  valuable  lives.  But  to  all 
such  criticism  he  gave  the  same  answer.  He  did 
not  estimate  success  by  numbers.     "  If  a  missionary 


166        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

travels  a  thousand  miles,"  he  said,  "  and  gains  only 
one  convert  on  the  journey,  his  efforts  have  not  been 
in  vain." 

The  Death  Rate. 
In  the  eighteenth  century  the  death  rate  among 
the  Moravian  missionaries  was  very  high,  and  all 
honour  should  be  given  to  the  men  who  were  so 
ready  to  fill  the  gaps.  The  most  striking  examples 
of  this  high  death  rate  are : — 

(1)  St.  Thomas,  160  deaths  in  50  years  (1732-82). 

(2)  St.   Croix,   22  deaths  in   2  years   (1733-5). 

(3)  Surinam,  50  missionaries  died  within  a  year 

after   their    arrival. 

(4)  Tranquebar  and  Nicobar  Islands,  46  deaths 

in  37  years. 

Nor  was  this  high  death  rate  confined  entirely  to 
the  eighteenth  century.  In  the  British  West  Indies, 
in  1835,  there  were  10  deaths  in  one  year ;  and  in 
Surinam,  in  1851-2, 14  missionaries  died  in  10  months. 


Chapter  XIII. 

ZIXZEXDORF  AS   MISSIONARY   LEADER, 

1731—1760. 

As  long  as  the  Count  had  a  breath  in  his  body, 
his  zeal  for  Foreign  Missions  burned  with  a  pure  and 
steady  flame.  At  the  time  when  he  was  banished 
from  Saxony  (1736)  he  announced  that  the  chief 
duty  of  the  Moravian  Church  was  to  proclaim  the 
Saviour  to  the  world  ;  on  another  occasion  he  said 
"  The  earth  is  the  Lord's  ;  all  souls  are  His,  I  am 
debtor  to  all  '* ;  and  holding  firmly  to  this  sublime 
ideal,  he  acted,  during  twenty-eight  years  (1732-60), 
not  only  as  the  general  manager,  but  also  as  the 
teacher,  as  the  politician,  and  as  the  poet  of  the  whole 
movement. 

1.  The  General  Manager. 
The  position  occupied  by  Zinzendorf  was  remark- 
able. In  order  to  understand  the  situation,  we  must 
remember  that,  during  the  whole  of  this  period,  the 
Renewed  Moravian  Church  had  no  fixed  con- 
stitution ;  no  constitution  was  formed,  m  fact, 
till  four  years  after  his  death  ;  and  the  natural  and 
inevitable  consequence  was  that,  while  Zinzendorf 
summoned  his  colleagues  to  Synods  and  Conferences, 
at  which  Foreign  Mission  problems  were  discussed, 
yet,  by  the  mere  force  of  his  genius,  he  exercised  such 
a  commanding  influence  that  his  designs  were  nearly 
always  accepted.  On  this  point  the  leading  Moravian 
historians  are  agreed.  Dr.  J.  T.  Miiller  says  that, 
after  a  Synod  at  Hirschberg  (1743),  his  position 
in  the  Church  was  dictatorial;!  Guido  Burkhardt 
calls  him  an  absolute  monarch;*   E.  W.  Croger  says 

fArticIe  on  Zinzendorf  in  "  Hauck'a  Real-Encyclopsedie,"  p.  694. 
*  •'  Zinzendorf  und  die  Brfldergemeine,"  p.  127. 

(167) 


168        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

that  at  the  Synods  Zinzendorf s  influence  was 
overwhelming  ;t  and  Gerhard  Reichel,  in  his  "  Life 
of  Spangenberg,"  says  that  not  even  the  Lot  was  able 
to  deprive  Zinzendorf's  sovranty  of  its  absolute  per- 
sonal character.*  With  these  views  I  agree.  By 
nature  Zinzendorf  was  an  autocrat,  and,  as  long  as  he 
held  sway,  constitutional  government  was  impossible. 
For  two  years,  it  is  true,  there  existed  a  governing 
body  called  the  General  Conference,  appointed  by 
a  Synod  held  in  London  (September,  1741)  ;  two 
years  later,  however,  Zinzendorf  himself,  on  his 
own  authority,  dissolved  this  Conference,  just  as 
Oliver  Cromwell  dissolved  the  Long  Parliament ; 
and  henceforward  his  rule  was  almost  entirely  un- 
disputed. At  the  Synods  he  himself  generally 
presided.  By  him,  and  him  alone,  they  were 
generally  summoned  ;  by  him  most  of  the  speaking 
was  done ;  and  the  clear  impression  produced 
by  the  minutes  is  that  though  Zinzendorf,  in  some 
cases,  allowed  his  colleagues  to  vote,  he  may  be  truly 
compared,  not  to  the  Speaker  of  the  House  of 
Commons,  but  rather  to  a  general  instructing  his 
officers. J 

Let  us  now  see  how  he  exercised  his  authority. 
His  first  move  was  of  fundamental  importance.     At 

f'Geschichte  der  Emeuertcn  Briidcrkirche,"  Part  I.,  p.  311. 

♦"August  Gottlieb  Spangenberg,"  1906,  p.  207. 

JFor  a  slightly  different  view  of  Zinzendorf's  authority  see 
Moravian  Almanac  (1909)  Appendix,  p.  118.  The  writer, 
Rev.  J.  N.  Libbey,  M.  A.,  sayi :  "  Like  everything  else  in  the 
early  years  of  the  Renewed  Church,  the  Synod  is  dominated  by 
the  perBonality  of  Zinzendorf.  When  he  was  present  he  always 
presided.  It  was  he  who  called  his  fellow-workera  together  to 
a  Synod  like  a  commander  calling  a  Council  of  War.  Ho  took 
a  large  part  in  the  discussions,  trying  to  avoid  taking  re- 
solutions by  vote,  and  seeking  to  reach  unanimity  in  his 
summing  up.  Hence  the  records  of  Synods  sometimes  read 
almost  like  Homilies  of  Zinzendorf  on  Church  Principles  and 
Practice,  and  perhaps,  in  giving  prominence  to  his  weighty 
utterances,  scarcely  do  justice  to  the  share  in  the  discussion 
taken  by  others," 


ZiNZENDORF    AS    MISSIONARY    LeADER.  169 

an  early  period  Zinzendorf  realised  that,  in  colonies 
belonging  to  other  countries,  no  missionary  would  be 
recognised  by  the  Government  unless  he  was 
ordained.  For  this  purpose,  therefore,  on  March 
13th,  1735,  he  had  his  friend  David  Nitschmann,  the 
carpenter,  consecrated  a  Bishop  by  Bishop  Daniel 
Ernest  Jablonsky.  In  the  certificate  Nitschmann 
was  described  as  "  Bishop  of  the  Foreign  Con- 
gregations," and  his  chief  function  was  to  ordain 
foreign  missionaries.  During  the  next  few  years, 
therefore,  most  of  the  leading  missionaries — such 
as  Frederick  Martin,  George  Schmidt,  Matthew 
Stach,  and  David  Zeisberger — were  ordained; 
being  ordained  they  could  baptize  and  conduct 
the  Holy  Communion;  and  thus,  in  the  most 
important  fields,  the  work  was  placed  on  a 
firm  ecclesiastical  basis.  But  this  change  in 
the  status  of  the  men  must  not  mislead  us. 
The  mere  fact  that  a  man  was  ordained  did 
not  mean  that  he  was  any  the  less  under 
Zinzendorf's   authority. 

In  1737  he  himself  was  consecrated  a  Bishop ; 
in  1743  he  was  appointed  "  Fully  Authorized 
Servant;"  and  acting  in  this  double  capacity, 
he  gathered  round  him  a  body  of  chosen 
disciples — called  first  the  Pilgrim  Band,  and  later  the 
Disciples'  House — employed  them  as  confidential 
clerks,  and,  through  them,  managed  the  whole  enter- 
prise. With  the  aid  of  these  clerks  he  kept  in 
personal  touch  with  all  the  missionaries.  According 
to  his  own  estimate,  he  spent  about  £28  a  year  in 
foreign  correspondence  ;  he  had  often,  he  said,  one 
hundred  and  fifty  letters  in  his  desk  awaiting  an 
immediate  answer  ;  and  his  own  letters  had  the  force 
of  commands.  On  several  important  occasions, 
also,  he  appointed  and  sent  out  men  to  pay  official 
visitations.     In  1786,  for  example,  he  sent  Spangen- 


170        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

berg  to  St.  Thomas  ;  in  1739  he  visited  St.  Thomas 
himself ;  and  then,  in  due  course,  he  sent  Andrew 
Grassman  to  Greenland  (1740),  David  Nitschmann 
to  St.  Thomas  (1742),  Christian  Henry  Rauch  to 
the  West  Indies  (1745),  John  de  Watteville  to  North 
xlmerica  (1749),  the  West  Indies  (1749),  and  Green- 
land (1752),  Seidel  to  the  West  Indies  (1753),  Rauch 
to  the  West  Indies  (1755),  Seidel  to  Rerbice  and 
Surinam  (1755),  and  finally  Seidel  again  to  the  West 
Indies  (1759).  To  this  absolute  authority  on  his 
part,  Zinzendorf  allowed  only  one  exception.  For 
eighteen  years  (1744-62)  Spangenberg  and  his 
colleagues  at  Rethlehem  had  the  oversight,  not  only 
of  North  America,  but  also  of  the  West  Indies,  Rerbice 
and  Surinam.  Rut  even  here  the  Count  was  the 
ultimate  authority.  He  himself  had  appointed 
both  Spangenberg  and  his  colleagues ;  on  one 
occasion  he  even  sent  Watteville  to  supervise 
Spangenberg ;  and  thus,  even  in  North  America, 
he  was  the  dominating  force.  During  Zinzendorf's 
lifetime,  therefore,  there  was  no  such  thing 
in  the  Moravian  Church  as  constitutional  govern- 
ment. 

Nor  was  this  the  full  measure  of  the  Count's 
authority.  In  addition  to  appointing  the  inspectors, 
he  also  appointed  the  missionaries,  and  no  candidate 
could  be  accepted  without  his  permission.  On 
such  occasions  the  scene  at  Herrnhut  was  both 
impressive  and  inspiring.  At  the  president's  table 
sat  the  Count  as  examiner  ;  on  his  left  hand  sat  the 
Rrethren  and  on  his  right  the  Sisters,  wearing  their 
snow-white  caps ;  and  there,  in  the  presence  of 
many  witnesses,  the  candidate  for  missionary  service 
made  his  confession  of  faith.  In  his  right  hand 
the  Count  held  a  sheet  of  questions ;  to  these 
questions  the  candidate  read  his  replies  ;  and  one 
case — that  of  Dr.  Regnier,  a  medical  missionary  in 


I 


I 


ZiNZENDORF   AS   MISSIONARY   LEADER.  171 

Surinam— may     serve    as     a     typical    example : — 

1.  What  are  your  religious  beliefs  ? 

A.  I  build  my  hopes  of  salvation  on  the  risen 
Christ. 

2.  What  makes  you  think  you  are  called  to  this 

work  ? 
A.     I  have  long  felt  an  inward  call  to  preach  the 
Gospel  to  others. 

3.  Where  do  you  desire  to  go  ? 

A.  When  the  elders  mentioned  Surinam  I  felt 
that  that  was  the  very  place  designed  for 
me  by  Christ. 

4.  What  do  you  intend  to  do  there  ? 

A.  I  will  do  my  best  to  earn  my  living  and  bring 
sinners  to  Christ. 

5.  How  do  you  intend  to  get  there  ? 

A.  I  shall  simply  trust  to  Christ  to  shew  me  the 
way. 

6.  How  long  do  you  intend  to  stay  there  ? 

A.  I  shall  stay  there  either  till  I  die  or  till  the 
elders  call  me  to  another  field. 

7.  How  do  you  propose  to  treat  your  wife  ? 

A.  I  will  love  her  with  all  my  heart ;  but  I  shall 
not  allow  my  love  for  her  to  interfere  with 
my  work. 

8.  How    will    you    treat    the    Brethren    already 

there  ? 
A.     I  will  cherish  them  as  though  they  were  my 
own  children. 

9.  How  will  you  treat  the  congregation  you  are 

leaving  ? 
A.     I   will   honour   and    obey    Herrnhut    as    my 

spiritual  mother. 
10.     How  will  you  behave  if  you  have  to  wait  a 

long   time    before    you    go  ? 
A.     If  I  have  to  wait  for  a  ship,  I  shall  simply 

regard  the  delay  as  the  will  of  the  Lord. 


172        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

In  his  choice  of  men  Zinzendorf  was  very  broad- 
minded.  As  long  as  the  man  possessed  a  noble 
soul,  and  gave  evidence  that  he  was  sound  in  the 
faith,  Zinzendorf  did  not  care  very  much  whether 
he  was  learned  or  ignorant.  For  some  special 
tasks,  of  course,  he  selected  scholars  such  as 
Arvid  Gradin,  Solomon  Schumann,  and  Drs.  Hocker, 
Eller,  and  Regnier ;  most,  however,  of  the  missionaries 
were  artisans  ;  and  once,  after  hearing  of  the  death 
of  the  learned  teacher,  Albin  Feder,  the  Count 
said  :  "It  looks  as  though  God  did  not  want 
any  more  scholars."  In  one  sense,  however,  all 
his  men  were  alike.  Each  was  a  free-will  agent ; 
each  was  willing  to  earn  his  own  living,  and  serve 
the  cause  without  pay  ;  and  each  was  ready,  even 
at  the  risk  of  his  life,  to  render  Zinzendorf  implicit 
obedience.  The  Church  did  not  even  provide  for  the 
whole  of  the  travelling  expenses.  For  many  years 
the  rule  was  that  while  the  Church  would  pay  the 
expenses  as  far  as  the  nearest  seaport,  the  missionary 
worked  his  passage  on  the  ship.  Most  of  the  early 
missionaries  did  the  first  part  of  the  journey  on  foot ; 
frequently  they  slept  in  the  open  air,  and  some 
hired  themselves  out  as  boatmen  and  worked  their 
passage  down  the  Rhine. 

Let  us  now  examine  the  causes  of  this  grand 
spirit.  The  first  was  the  Brethren's  belief  in  the 
Lot ;  the  second  was  their  belief  in  the  Moravian 
Text  Book  ;  and  each  belief  w^as  simply  a  form  of 
their  belief  in  God.  For  the  first  belief  Zinzendorf 
was  chiefly  responsible.  On  no  theological  doctrine 
did  he  express  more  decided  opinions.  To  doubt 
his  own  judgment  was  possible  ;  to  doubt  the  Lot 
was  impossible ;  and  whether  his  theory  was  true  or 
false,  it  was  at  least  logical.  Zinzendorf  firmly 
believed  in  answers  to  prayer.  By  consulting  the 
Lot,  he  said,  he  was  simply  asking  God  for  guidance ; 


ZiNZENDOEF   AS    MISSIONARY   LkADKR.  178 

such  prayers  God  had  promised  to  answer ;  and 
acting  on  this  simple  principle,  the  Count  carried 
his  Lot-apparatus,  a  little  green  book,  in  his  waist- 
coat pocket.  "  To  me,"  he  wrote  to  his  friend 
Spangenberg,  "  the  Lot  and  the  Will  of  God  are 
one  and  the  same  thing.  I  would  rather  trust  an 
innocent  piece  of  paper  than  my  own  excited  feelings." 
At  every  serious  crisis,  therefore,  Zinzendorf  turned 
to  the  Lot  for  guidance.  His  theory  was  perfectly 
consistent.  Christ,  he  said,  was  the  only  true  Head  of 
the  Church  ;  Christ  had  His  own  missionary  "plan"; 
and  Christ  revealed  that  "  plan  "  to  His  servants 
by  means  of  the  Lot.  Christ,  said  the  Count,  by 
this  means,  was  giving  him  and  his  colleagues  in- 
fallible guidance.  Christ  had  sent  him  to  Copen- 
hagen ;  Christ  ordered  him  to  visit  St.  Thomas  ; 
Christ  forbade  him  to  visit  St.  Croix  ;  Christ  selected 
Leonard  Dober  as  the  first  Moravian  missionary ; 
Christ  sanctioned  the  consecration  of  David  Nitsch- 
mann  as  a  Bishop.  With  this  faith  Zinzendorf 
inspired  his  soldiers.  "  You  must  never,"  he  wrote 
to  Matthew  Stach,  "  take  a  single  step  without  con- 
sulting the  Lot."  On  the  men  themselves  the  effect 
was  wonderful.  With  this  simple  faith  in  their 
hearts  they  could  face  any  fate. 

For  the  other  cause,  the  Moravian  Text  Book, 
Zinzendorf  was  equally  responsible.  In  1727  he 
adopted  the  practice  of  giving  the  refugees  a 
daily  watchword  from  the  Bible  ;  in  1731,  for  the 
first  time,  an  annual  volume  of  such  watch- 
words was  published,  and  just  as  the  missionaries 
believed  in  the  Lot,  so  they  also  believed  that 
in  the  Text  Book  Christ  was  giving  to  each 
of  them  a  special  message  for  the  day.  Let  three 
examples  illustrate  the  point.  On  December  13th, 
1732,  Dober  and  Nitschmann  landed  in  St.  Thomas, 
and  the  text  was  "  The  Lord  mustereth  the  host  of 


174        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

battle"  ;  on  April  10th,  1733,  the  Caritas  sailed  for 
Greenland,  and  the  text  was  "  Faith  is  the  substance 
of  things  hoped  for,  the  evidence  of  things  not 
seen  "  ;  and  on  the  day  when  he  reached  the  Sweet- 
Milk  Valley,  George  Schmidt  acted  on  the  text, 
"  Enlarge  the  place  of  thy  tents." 

2.     The  Teacher. 

But  Zinzendorf  was  far  more  than  a  manager. 
He  was  also  a  systematic  teacher  of  method.  For 
some  years  before  the  Moravian  Missions  began, 
Zinzendorf  had  made  a  close  study  of  the  chief 
missionary  methods  employed  both  by  Francke's 
three  men  in  Tranquebar,  and  by  Egede  in  Greenland  ; 
with  some  of  those  methods  he  disagreed;  and  writing 
on  April  12th,  1732,  to  an  English  missionary — 
probably  a  member  of  the  S.P.G. — he  made  the  first 
written  statement  of  his  opinions.  In  three  ways,  said 
Zinzendorf,  previous  missionaries  had  blundered, 
and  the  Englishman  was  now  given  good  advice. 
"  First,"  he  said,  "  you  must  never  try  to  lord  it 
over  the  heathen,  but  rather  humble  yourself  among 
them,  and  earn  their  esteem  through  the  power  of 
the  spirit.  I  have  been  informed  by  a  missionary's 
wife  that  the  missionaries  would  not  associate  with 
the  heathen,  but  regarded  them  as  mere  slaves.  Our 
Lord  never  talked  like  that.  Secondly,  you  must 
say  nothing  about  the  Creation  and  the  Fall,  but 
come  at  once  to  your  point,  and  preach  the  Crucified 
Christ.  Thirdly,  you  are  not  to  aim  at  the  con- 
version of  whole  nations  to  your  particular  form  of 
Christianity.  You  must  simply  look  out  for  seekers 
after  the  truth,  who,  like  the  Ethiopian  eunuch, 
seem  ready  to  welcome  the  Gospel.  I  am  quite 
disgusted  when  I  hear  that  the  heathen  are  made 
into  mere  sectarians,  that  particular  Churches  are 
held   up  for  their  admiration,   and   that  they   are 


ZiNZENDORF   AS   MISSIONARY   LeADER.  175 

actually  asked  to  say  to  which  Church  they  belong." 
In  that  letter  we  find  the  key  to  all  Zinzendorf's 
missionary  principles.  Leonard  Dober  received 
similar  instructions,  and  then,  for  the  benefit  of  other 
Moravian  missionaries,  the  Count  issued  the  follow- 
ing missionary  manuals  : — 

(1)  Instructions   for   George   Schmidt,   1736. 

(2)  Instructions    for    Missionaries    to    the    East, 

1736. 

(3)  Letter  to  the  Brethren  in  Greenland,   1738. 

(4)  Instructions  to  all  Missionaries,  1738. 

(5)  Homily  for  Apostles  to  the  Heathen,  1739. 

(6)  Plan  of  a  Catechism  for  the  Heathen,  1740. 

(7)  The    Right    Way   to    Convert   the   Heathen, 

1740. 

(8)  Instructions  to  Lange  concerning  his  journey 

to  China,  1741. 

(9)  Instructions  for  the  Missionaries  in  Greenland, 

1745. 

(10)  Instructions    to   the    Missionary    among    the 

Christian  Slaves  in  Algiers,   1746. 

(11)  Instructions    for    the    Brethren    in    Surinam, 

1748. 

(12)  Instructions    for    Grabenstein,    Zander,    and 

Dahne  in  Surinam,   1756. 

(13)  Instructions  to  Stahlmann,  1758. 

(14)  Homily  for   all  Missionaries   to   Tranquebar, 

1759. 

Let  us  now  see  how,  in  these  pamphlets,  Zinzendorf 
worked  out  his  three  main  points,  and  then  we  shall 
understand  his  importance  as  a  missionary  pioneer. 

(1)  Personal  Conduct.  For  his  views  on  this  topic 
the  Count  had  a  special  reason.  At  that  time  there 
was  a  comforting  delusion  in  certain  cultured  con- 
tinental circles  that,  the  heathen  being  like  innocent 
children,    the   more   they   were   left    to   themselves 


176        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

the  better,  and  knowing  how  false  this  doctrine 
was — knowing,  i.e.,  that  the  Eskimos  were  scoffers, 
that  the  Indians  drank,  that  the  Negroes  were 
immoral,  and  that  the  Bush  Negroes  poisoned 
each  other — Zinzendorf  informed  his  men  that 
nothing  but  the  force  of  personal  example  could 
raise  such  wretches  from  the  mire.  By  nature, 
he  said,  all  heathen  are  weak.  Bad  example  would 
ruin  them  ;  only  good  example  could  save  them. 
"  Let  them  once  taste  European  vices,"  he  said, 
"  and  they  will  rush  headlong  to  perdition."  For 
this  reason  he  set  before  the  missionaries  certain 
high  moral  ideals  : — (a)  The  first  duty  of  every 
missionary  was  to  earn  his  own  living.  By  earning 
his  own  living  he  could  not  only  save  the  Church 
funds,  but  also  teach  the  natives  the  dignity  of 
labour  ;  on  the  other  hand,  he  must  not  seek  large 
profits,  but  be  content  with  the  bare  necessaries  of 
life ;  and  having  provided  himself  with  food  and 
clothing,  he  must  devote  the  rest  of  his  time  to  the 
heathen.  On  this  point  he  wrote  a  blunt  letter  to 
George  Schmidt.  "  If  you  take  a  penny  more  than 
you  need,"  he  said,  "  I  will  dismiss  you  from  the 
service."  No  missionary  might  demand  any  luxuries, 
and  no  missionary  might  accept  any  presents. f 
(b)  Secondly,  the  Brethren  must  be  obedient,  not 
only  to  their  ecclesiastical  superiors,  but  to  the 
secular  government.  The  Count  had  here  a  two- 
fold problem  to  solve.  On  the  one  hand  he  tried  to 
win  the  goodwill  of  the  various  governments  under 
which  the  Brethren  lived  ;  on  the  other  hand,  having 
done  this,  he  taught  his  men  to  be  law-abiding 
citizens.  In  the  first  of  these  efforts  he  was  fairly 
successful.  In  the  Danish  West  Indies,  he  had  the 
Brethren's  work  recognised  by  Frederick  VI.,  King 


t  Thia   rule   was  not  always  observed.      Frederick  Martin,  when 
in  sore  straits,  accepted  presents  from  his  friend  Carstens. 


ZiNZENDORF    AS    MISSIONARY    LEADER.  177 

of  Denmark ;  in  Greenland,  by  Frederick  V. ;  in 
Surinam,  by  the  Dutch  India  Company ;  and  in 
South  Africa,  for  a  time,  by  the  Chamber  of  Seven- 
teen. But  his  greatest  success  was  achieved  in  the 
British  Colonies.  On  May  12th,  1749,  an  Act  of 
Parliament  was  passed  conferring  on  the  Brethren 
certain  privileges  in  all  British  Dominions.  The 
Moravian  Church  was  officially  recognised  as  an 
ancient  Protestant  Episcopal  Church,  and  hence- 
forth all  Moravians  were  exempted,  both  from  taking 
the  oath  and  from  bearing  arms.f  On  the  Brethren 
themselves  the  Count  always  enjoined  loyalty. 
"  You  are  not,"  he  said,  "  to  work  against  the  police, 
or  regard  the  government  with  suspicion.  Do  not," 
he  added,  "  interfere  between  employer  and  employed ; 
do  not  play  any  part  in  party  poUtics,  but  teach 
the  heathen,  by  your  example,  to  fear  God  and 
honour  the  King."  (c)  Again,  said  the  Count,  the 
missionaries  must  be  careful  in  their  treatment  of 
the  heathen.  "  The  right  way  with  savages,"  he 
said  in  his  "  Natural  Reflections,"  "  is  this  :  you  must 
set  them  such  a  dazzling  example  that  they  cannot 
help  asking  who  made  these  delightful  characters." 
"Let  the  people,"  he  said,  in  another  pamphlet,  "  see 
what  sort  of  men  you  are  ;  let  them  hear  you  pray 
and  sing  ;  and  then  they  will  be  forced  to  ask,  '  Who 
makes  such  men  as  these  ?  '  "  George  Schmidt 
received  the  same  kind  of  advice.  "  You  must 
labour  with  your  hands,"  said  the  Count,  "  until 
you  have  won  the  love  of  the  people."  By  such 
methods,  more  than  by  preaching,  would  the  heathen 
be  conformed  to  the  image  of  Christ,  (d)  Above 
all,  said  the  Count,  the  Brethren  must  be  content 
to  suffer,  to  die  and  to  be  forgotten.     No  missionary 

fThis  privilege  has  not  recently  been  claimed.  In  the  Great  War 
the  English  Moravians  enlisted  from  the  outset,  and  several 
gained  the  M.C.  and  other  distinctions. 


178        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

must  ever  seek  the  praise  of  man,  and  still  less  must 
he  desire  to  become  immortalised  in  print.  To  that 
rule  the  Count  himself  held  firm.  He  was  not  a  good 
story-teller  himself, f  and  he  did  not  encourage  the 
gift  in  others.  As  long  as  Zinzendorf  trod  this  earth 
not  a  single  missionary  biography  was  published  ;  the 
only  records  that  saw  the  light  were  a  few  extracts 
from  diaries,  and  most  of  these  were  not  printed, 
but  copied  out  by  Zinzendorf's  clerks,  to  be  read  at 
missionary  meetings.  Thus  did  Zinzendorf,  in  his 
"Instructions,"  demand  self-denial  to  the  uttermost. 
Nor  was  even  this  the  highest  ideal  that  Zinzendorf 
placed  before  his  warriors.  No  matter  what  trials 
they  encountered,  he  would  not  allow  them  to  be 
down-hearted.  In  one  of  his  speeches  he  com- 
plained that  some  of  the  early  missionaries  suffered 
from  what  he  called  the  "  English  Malady,"  i.e., 
melancholia  ;  and  such  men,  in  his  opinion,  were  not 
fit  for  the  service.* 

2.  Theology.  In  theology  Zinzendorf  introduced, 
not  exactly  a  change  of  doctrine,  but  rather  a  change 
in  order  or  method.  Previous  missionaries  had  failed, 
he  said,  not  because  they  taught  erroneous  doctrine, 
but  because  they  began  at  the  wrong  end.  First 
they  spoke  of  God,  then  they  narrated  the  Fall, 
and  then  they  preached  Christ.  Count  Zinzendorf 
reversed  the  process.  Others  began  with  God 
and  ended  with  Christ ;  he  began  with  Christ 
and  ended  with  God.  "  What  is  it,"  he  said 
to  Leonard  Dober,  "  that  the  heathen  know  already  ? 
They  know  that  there  is  a  God  (Rom.  i.,  19,  20), 
and,  therefore,  the  man  who  tells  them  of  God  is 
simply  wasting  his  time.  What  is  it  that  they  do  not 
know  ?  They  do  not  know  that  Jesus  Christ  came 
into  the  world  to  save  sinners,  and,  therefore,  the 


fHe  knew  it.     "  I  have  no  gift  for  narrative."—  Speech  in  London,  1743. 
*Por  the  "  E.iglish  Malady  "  see  Bosivell's  Johnson,  Anno  1728. 


ZiNZENDORF   AS   MISSIONARY   LEADER.  179 

missionary  must  always  begin  with  the  Gospel 
message.  How  is  it  that  missionaries  have  failed 
in  the  past  ?  They  have  failed  because,  instead  of 
preaching  Christ,  they  have  given  lectures  on 
theology."  In  one  of  his  official  pamphlets  he 
repeated  this  point.  "  You  must  never  be  deceived 
by  the  notion,"  he  said,  "  that  before  you  tell  them 
of  Christ  you  must  first  tell  them  of  God.  The  idea 
is  false.  They  know  already  that  there  is  a  God. 
They  do  not,  however,  know  Christ ;  they  do  not 
know  that  He  alone  can  save  them ;  and  that, 
therefore,  is  what  they  must  be  told."  At  the  same 
time  Zinzendorf  always  insisted  that,  while  the 
missionaries  must  preach  Christ  first,  they  must 
also  make  it  clear  to  the  heathen  that  Christ  and 
God  were  two  different  names  for  the  same  person.  In 
theory  he  was  opposed  to  dogma,  and  condemned  the 
old  dogmatic  methods  ;  in  fact,  like  most  reformers, 
he  was  a  dogmatist  himself;  and,  believing  that  the 
Augsburg  Confession  was  inspired,  he  insisted  that 
the  Brethren  must  preach  Christ,  not  merely  as 
Redeemer,  but  also  as  God  manifest  in  the  flesh  and 
Creator  of  all  things.  "  You  must  tell  the  heathen," 
he  said,  "  that  Jesus  Christ  is  truly  God,  begotten 
of  the  Father  in  eternity."  For  the  use  of  all 
missionaries  he  prepared  a  "  Catechism  for  the 
Heathen,"  and  in  this  catechism  he  expounded  the 
main  principles  of  his  own  theology.  The  most 
important   questions   were  as  follows  : — 

Q.  Who  made  men  and  women  ? 

A.  The  Lord  God. 

Q.  What  do  you  call  Him  ? 

A.  Jesus  Christ. 

Q.     Do  those  words  mean  anything  ? 
A.    Yes. 


180        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Q.     What,  then  ? 

A.     Jesus    means    Redeemer    and    Christ    means 
King. 

Q.     How  did  He  obtain  these  names  ? 
A.     That  is  a  special  story. 

In  the  next  section  the  candidate  was  informed  how 
man  had  been  ruined  by  the  Fall ;  how  God,  in 
order  to  save  him,  became  a  man,  was  crucified, 
rose  and  ascended  ;  and  how  all  converts  must  be 
baptized  in  the  name  of  the  Father,  the  Son,  and  the 
Holy  Ghost.  Thus  was  the  candidate  led  by  degrees 
to  the  doctrine  of  the  Holy  Trinity. 

Q.     Who  are  these  three  ? 
A.     The  first  is  the  Father  of  the  Lord  Jesus. 
Q.     But  who  is  He  ? 

A.     I  cannot  possibly  tell  you.     He  is  so  high  that 
I  cannot  attain  to  Him. 

Q.     But  how  shall  I  learn  to  know  Him  ? 
A.     The  Lord  Jesus  will  teach  you  Himself  when 
His  Father  becomes  your  Father. 

Q.     Who  is  the  Holy  Ghost  ? 

A.     He  is   God's  Helper.     He  is  also  master  of 
the  baptized,  and  teaches  them  to  pray. 

Q.     Why  must  I  be  baptized  with  water  ? 

A.     The  blood  of  Jesus  Christ,  shed  for  you,  is 

invisibly    there  and  cleanses  your  heart 

from  sin  and  guilt. 

But  now  we  come  to  a  still  more  important  point. 
In  1734  Zinzendorf  made  his  already  mentioned 
great  theological  discovery.  One  day,  so  he  tells 
us,  he  was  burning  some  waste  paper  ;  one  slip  con- 
tained the  words  :  "  Oh  !  Let  us  in  Thy  nail-prints 
see  our  pardon  and  election  free  "  ;   and  taking  those 


ZiNZENDORF   AS   MISSIONARY   LEADER.  181 

words  as  a  heavenly  message,  he  discovered  that 
God  could  be  known  to  man  only  through  the 
Suffering  Christ.  During  the  next  twenty-six  years 
Zinzendorf  laid  stress  on  what  he  called  his  "  Blood 
and  Wounds  Theology "  ;  and  this  theology  was 
now  preached  by  the  missionaries.  In  the  past 
they  had  preached  abstract  doctrine  ;  henceforward 
their  sermons  were  in  the  form  of  a  narrative.  In  the 
past  they  had  expounded  theology  ;  henceforward 
they  told  the  story  of  the  Scourging,  the  Crown  of 
Thorns,  the  Nail-prints,  and  the  Wounded  Side ; 
and  the  records  of  such  men  as  John  Beck,  Gottlieb 
Israel,  Rauch,  Schumann,  and  Stoll,  prove  that  this 
picturesque  mode  of  preaching  appealed  with  con- 
vincing force  to  the  heathen  mind.  By  means  of 
the  old  method  only  few  converts  were  gained ; 
by  means  of  the  second  many  thousands. 

3.     The  Politician. 

Let  me  now  endeavour  to  expound  the  Count's 
missionary  policy.  His  main  purpose  was  both 
unique  and  original.  At  the  time  when  he  sent 
Leonard  Dober  to  St.  Thomas  the  three  chief 
missionary  agencies  in  the  world  were  the  Anglican 
S.P.G.  (Society  for  the  Propagation  of  the  Gospel 
in  Foreign  Parts,  founded  1700),  the  Danish 
College  of  Missions,  and  the  Dutch  East  India 
Company  ;  each  of  these  bodies  had  done  genuine 
missionary  work,  and  the  difference  between  them 
and  Zinzendorf  was  that,  while  they  endeavoured 
to  establish  State  churches,  Zinzendorf  was  entirely 
free  from  any  such  motive.  For  what  purpose, 
e.g.,  did  the  S.P.G.  exist  ?  Chiefly,  though  not 
exclusively,  to  minister  to  the  spiritual  needs  of 
English  settlers  in  English  colonies.  For  what 
purpose  was  the  Danish  College  of  Missions  founded  ? 
To  establish  a  branch  of  the  Danish  State  Church  in 


182        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

the  Danish  colonies.  For  what  purpose,  besides 
business,  was  the  Dutch  East  India  Company  formed  ? 
To  estabHsh  the  '*  true  Reformed  Religion,"  i.e., 
the  Dutch  State  Church,  in  Dutch  possessions.  In 
the  case  of  these  three  Societies,  State  Church  and 
Colonial  interests  were  uppermost ;  in  the  case  of 
Count  Zinzendorf  no  such  motives  existed,  and  the 
strange  feature  of  the  story  is  that,  though  he  him- 
self was  a  Moravian  Bishop,  though  he  had  the 
Sacraments  administered  according  to  the  Moravian 
ritual,  and  though,  in  several  Mission  Fields,  he 
encouraged  the  formation  of  Herrnhut  institutions — 
such  as  Choirs,  Love-feasts,  Bands,  and  Hourly 
Intercessions — yet,  at  the  same  time,  he  had  not  the 
least  desire  to  extend  the  Moravian  Church.  Other 
missionaries  toiled  conscientiously  for  their  re- 
spective native  lands  and  for  their  respective  State 
Churches  ;  Zinzendorf  toiled  for  the  glory  of  God 
alone  ;  and  in  his  instructions  to  the  missionaries 
he  made  that  point  abundantly  clear.  "  You  must 
not,"  he  said  emphatically,  "  try  to  establish  native 
churches ;  you  must  not  enrol  your  converts  as 
members  of  the  Moravian  Church  ;  you  must  be 
content  to  enrol  them  as  Christians."  With  one 
exception,  all  the  missionaries  followed  Zinzendorf's 
instructions ;  that  one  exception  was  David 
Zeisberger,  who  tried  to  found  a  Delaware  National 
Church  ;  and  even  he  did  not  formulate  his  scheme 
fully  till  some  years  after  Zinzendorf's  death.  In 
this  policy  we  find  the  explanation  of  a  singular 
fact.  How  was  it,  we  ask,  that  at  Zinzendorf's 
death  the  total  number  of  enrolled  converts  was 
only  about  one  thousand  ?  Because,  while  the 
missionaries  were  anxious  to  win  souls,  they  were  not 
anxious  to  enrol  them  as  Church  members.  The 
most  striking  case  was  that  of  Frederick  Martin. 
In    the    year    1736    he    had   gained   seven  hundred 


I 


I 


ZiNZENDORF   AS   MISSIONARY   LEADER.  188 

converts,  and  of  these  only  thirty  were  baptized. 
For  this  self-denying  policy  Zinzendorf  gave  two 
reasons.  First,  he  had  no  faith  in  the  independent 
existence  of  the  Moravian  Church ;  that  Church, 
he  once  declared,  would  soon  be  both  dead  and 
forgotten  ;  and  then  the  converts  would  be  enrolled 
as  Anglicans,  Presb\i:erians,  or  Lutherans. 

Secondly,  Zinzendorf  laid  great  stress  on  what  he 
called  his  J^  First _Fruits_ldeaJ'  In  his  views  about 
the  heathen  he  was  a  Calvinist.  As  long  as  the 
Jews  remained  unconverted,  Zinzendorf  con- 
scientiously believed  that  the  only  heathen  who 
would  accept  the  Gospel  were  a  few  Candace- Souls 
specially  chosen  by  God.  The  time  to  convert 
whole  nations  had  not  yet  come  ;  only  a  few  "  first 
fruits  "  might  be  expected  ;  and  so  fond  was  the 
Count  of  this  idea  that  he  had  it  immortalised  in 
paint.  The  picture  was  painted  by  his  friend  Haidt, 
and  may  still  be  seen  at  Herrnhut.f  Below  the 
picture  there  is  the  text,  "  These  were  redeemed 
from  among  men,  being  the  first  fruits." — Rev. 
XIV.,  4.  There,  arrayed  in  native  costume,  and 
holding  palms  in  their  hands,  we  see  twenty-two 
Mora\-ian  "  First  Fruits "  before  the  Lamb  on 
His  throne,  and  nothing  throws  a  clearer  light  on 
ZinzendorTs  missionary  policy.* 

4.    The  Poet. 

Finally,  and  above  all,  Zinzendorf  was  the  poet  of 
the  movement.  He  was  at  his  best  when  he  donned 
his  singing  robes.  At  the  monthly  missionary 
meeting  he  often  opened  the  proceedings  by  singing 
a  solo,  and  some  of  the  best  h\Tnns  were  WTitten 
by  himself.  His  "  Warrior  Songs  "  were  trumpet 
calls  to  action.     For  his  fiery  zeal  he  could  give  a 

tAt  Zeist,  in  Holland,  there  is  a  r,  production  of  this  pictxire. 
♦for  the  names  of  ths  "  First  Fruits  "  aee  Appendix. 


184        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

special  reason.  The  more  closely  Zinzendorf  studied 
the  Scriptures,  the  more  the  conviction  deepened 
within  his  soul  that,  before  the  eighteenth  century 
closed,  Christ  would  appear  in  bodily  form  to  the 
Jews  ;  and  then,  he  declared,  the  Jews  would  learn, 
like  St.  Thomas,  to  say  "  My  Lord  and  my  God." 
By  these  Jews  the  glorious  Gospel  would  then  be 
preached  to  all  mankind,  and  filled  with  this  con- 
viction,  he  said  : — 

The  work  is  Thine,  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 

The  glory  and  the  shame  ; 
The  hour  hath  struck  when  all  the  world 

Shall  know  Thy  saving  name. 

For  this  reason  Zinzendorf's  poetry  was  exceptionally 
optimistic  in  character.  He  did  not,  of  course, 
ignore  the  fact  that  his  soldiers  had  many  dangers 
to  face,  and  that  some  of  them  had  perished  un- 
timely. 

Ambassadors  of  Christ, 

Know  ye  the  way  ye  go  ? 
It  leads  into  the  jaws  of  death. 
Is  strewn  with  thorns  and  woe. 

But  to  him  these  disasters  were  simply  pledges 
of  speedy  victory.  The  more  swiftly  his  soldiers 
fell  in  the  ranks,  the  more  swiftly  should  others  fill 
the  gap.  No  coward  was  fit  to  carry  the  Captain's 
banner.  "  If  your  finger  trembles  on  the  trigger," 
he  said,  "  you  will  never  learn  to  shoot  straight ; 
if  you  fear  to  stand  in  the  fighting  line,  you  will 
never  rest  in  the  tents."  In  a  speech  at  Herrnhut, 
on  January  19th,  1758,  he  used  a  curious  com- 
parison.f  As  the  cab-horses  in  London  wore 
blinkers,  so  the  missionary,  he  said,  must  be  blind 
to  dangers  ;  and  the  same  thought — though  not  the 
same  simile — is  found  in  many  of  his   hymns.     In 


•fSee  "  Zeitischrift  fiir  Brudergeschichte,"  1912,  Vol.  II.,  p.  136. 


ZiNZENDORF   AS    MISSIONARY   LEADER.  185 

"  Go,  ye  comrades "  he  urged  to  self-surrender ; 
in  "  Sloth  no  beauty  "  he  declared  that  the  grandest 
sight  in  the  world  was  the  Christian  warrior  covered 
with  dust ;  and  in  "  Prince  of  Thy  People "  he 
foretold  the  almost  immediate  triumph  of  the  Gospel. 
The  very  names  he  gave  the  Brethren  stirred  the 
blood.  In  order  to  fire  their  zeal,  he  used  a  great 
variety  of  military  metaphors.  "Christ,"  he  said, 
"  is  the  conquering  Prince,  with  a  voice  like  the  blast 
of  a  trumpet,  and  His  royal  chariot  rolls  behind  ; 
His  preachers,  His  warriors,  His  noble  prisoners  of 
war  are  '  Comrades  of  the  Noble  Order  of  IMockery  ' ; 
and  His  Blood  is  their  guide  and  their  staff."  On 
land  or  sea,  said  the  Count,  the  missionaries  were 
equally  under  the  protection  of  Christ.  For  ten 
years  (1748-58)  the  Moravian  Church  possessed  its 
own  missionary  vessel,  the  Irene,  a  snow,!  built  at 
New  York,  and  commanded  by  an  American,  Nicholas 
Garrison  ;  this  vessel  frequently  crossed  the  Atlantic, 
and  also  carried  missionaries  to  Greenland  and 
Surinam;  and  speaking  of  her  exploits,  Zinzendorf 
said  that,  as  Christ  Himself  filled  her  sails,  no  harm 
would  come  to  her  from  rocks,  icebergs,  and  storms. 
His  prophecy  seems  to  have  been  literally  fulfilled. 
As  long  as  the  Irene  was  in  Moravian  hands,  none  of 
the  forces  of  nature  damaged  her ;  in  1758,  however, 
she  was  captured  by  a  French  privateer,  and  a  few 
weeks  later  she  foundered.  But  the  Brethren, 
said  the  Count,  were  more  than  the  soldiers  of  Christ. 
They  were  His  comrades  ;  they  had,  like  Him,  to 
wear  a  crown  of  thorns ;  they  shared  both  His  shame 
and  His  glory ;  and,  in  all  their  trials,  their  consolation 
must  be  that,  while,  on  earth,  no  wreath  of  fame 
would  girdle  their  sunburnt   brows,   they   could  see 

fA  snow  is  a  small  three-masted  vessel.  For  a  full  description  see 
EncyclopcEdia  Britannica.  Scott  mentions  a  snow  in  Red- 
gauntlet  (Chap.  xiv). 


186        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

in  imagination  the  pearly  gates  of  the  Holy  City, 
the  Lamb  on  the  Throne,  and  the  glories  of  the 
Paradise  of  God.  With  such  songs  upon  their  lips, 
the  early  Moravian  missionaries  feared  no  foe. 
"  If  you  go  to  Labrador,"  said  someone  to  Drachart, 
"  the  Eskimos  will  kill  you."  "  If  they  kill  me," 
he  answered,  "  they  will  kill  me." 

The  same  spirit  animated  all  the  missionaries. 
With  songs  of  praise  Bishop  Nitschmann  and  his 
comrades  amazed  John  Wesley  on  the  Simmonds  ; 
with  songs  the  converts  in  St.  Thomas  escorted 
Martin  to  his  cell ;  with  a  song  Gottlieb  Israel, 
clinging  to  the  rock  at  Tortola,  bade  defiance  to 
the  winds  and  waves  ;  with  a  song  Matthew  Stach 
confronted  the  men  who  had  come  to  slay  him  ; 
and  with  songs  the  captive  Christian  Indians  met  their 
fate  at  Gnadenhiitten,  on  the  Tuscarawas  River. 
May  9th,  As  the  poet  lay  on  his  deathbed  at  Berthelsdorf, 
1760  his  last  thoughts  were  of  the  Missions.  He  had  sent 
out  no  fewer  than  226  missionaries,  and  the  results 
of  their  labours  far  exceeded  his  expectations.! 
"  I  only  asked,"  he  said,  "  for  first  fruits  among  the 
heathen,  and  thousands  have  been  granted  me. 
What  a  grand  caravan  there  must  be  now  before  the 
throne  of  the  Lamb." 

fOn  the  work  accomplished  by  the  Brethren,  Dr.  Gustav  Wameck, 
author  of  the  Vr'ell-known  "  History  of  Protestant  Missions," 
epoke  as  follows  :  "  By  1760  the  Moravian  Church  had  done 
more  for  the  heathen  than  all  the  other  Protestant  Churches  put 
together."  Address  at  Hermhut,  June  7th,  1900.  See  the 
official  report  of  the  Centenary  Celebrations. 


Chapter  XIV. 

THE   COUNT'S   SUCCESSORS,   1760—1800. 

As  soon  as  the  Brethren  had  recovered  from  the 
shock  occasioned  by  Zinzendorf's  death,  the  chief 
question  they  had  to  consider  was  how  far  they 
should  still  follow  his  lead,  and  how  far  they  should 
strike  out  new  paths  for  themselves.  To  that 
question  they  gave  a  two-fold  answer.  There  was 
some  resemblance  between  Zinzendorf  and  Brutus. 
In  his  principles  and  ideals  Zinzendorf,  like  Brutus, 
was  almost  perfect  ;  in  his  methods  he  was  often 
mistaken  ;  and  therefore,  while  his  successors  adhered 
to  his  main  principles,  they  abandoned  many  of  his 
methods  and  replaced  them  by  what  they  considered 
better  methods  of  their  own. 

1.     Zinzendorf's  Principles. 

(a)  Doctrine.  According  to  Zinzendorf  the  chief 
duty  of  a  preacher  to  the  heathen  was  not  to  expound 
any  system  of  dogmatic  theology,  but  to  tell  the  story 
of  the  Cross  ;  to  that  principle  his  successors  adhered  ; 
and  taking  as  a  motto  St.  Paul's  words,  "  I  deter- 
mined to  know  nothing  among  you  but  Jesus  Christ 
and  Him  crucified,"  they  declared,  officially,  at  a 
General  Synod,  that  henceforth,  as  in  the  past,  I7g4 
the  doctrine  of  the  merits  of  the  life  and  sufferings 
of  Jesus  should  be  the  main  substance  of  their 
message.  For  thirty  years  after  Zinzendorf's  death, 
the  chief  leader  in  the  Church  was  Bishop  Spangen- 
berg ;  this  man,  in  1780,  issued  an  official  account 
of  the  Brethren's  methods  ;  and,  speaking  in  the 
name  of  the  Church,  he  said  :  "  We  always  preach 
the  same  Christ  that  died  for  us  on  the  Cross."  In 
their   mode   of  preaching,   therefore,    the   Brethren 

(187) 


188        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

made  no  change.  For  this  pohey  they  gave  an 
excellent  reason.  By  means  of  this  method  Gottlieb 
Israel  had  created  a  revival  in  St.  Thomas  ;  by  means 
of  this  method  Schumann  had  won  the  hearts  of  the 
Arawack  Indians  ;  by  means  of  this  method  both 
Tschoop  and  Kayarnak  had  been  converted.  Such 
tales  had  now  become  Moravian  classics  ;  similar 
stories  were  told  by  the  converts  in  letters  read  at  the 
monthly  missionary  meetings,  and,  judging  by  those 
letters,  the  Brethren  concluded  that  on  this  funda- 
mental point  Zinzendorf  was  in  the  right. 

(b)  Self-denial.  For  many  years  after  Zinzendorf 's 
death,  all  the  missionaries  still  worked  without  a 
salary,  and,  speaking  broadly,  the  general  principle 
was  that  while  the  Church  paid  the  missionaries' 
travelling  expenses,  and  sometimes  sent  them  parcels 
of  food  and  clothing,  they  had  still  to  earn  their  own 
living,  either  by  mental  or  by  manual  labour.  The 
form  of  labour  varied  according  to  the  district.  In 
Jamaica  some  of  the  missionaries  worked  plantations  ; 
in  St.  Thomas  they  opened  a  large  boot  factory  ; 
in  North  America  they  shot  and  fished  ;  in  Green- 
land they  had  kitchen-gardens,  cows  and  fishing- 
boats  ;  in  Surinam  they  cultivated  corn-fields  and 
orchards,  and  conducted  a  tailoring  business  at 
Paramaribo ;  in  Labrador  they  traded  with  the 
Eskimos  ;  in  Tranquebar  they  planted  a  wonderful 
"Garden";  and  in  Bengal  they  acted  as  doctors  and 
interpreters.  The  system  had  often  led  to  great 
privations.  In  1737  Frederick  Martin  found  both 
his  purse  and  his  larder  empty  ;  in  1735  the  Green- 
land missionaries  had  to  live  on  mussels  and  sea- 
weed, and  suffered,  in  consequence,  from  scurvy ; 
and  in  1758,  all  the  missionaries  in  the  Danish  West 
Indies,  being  unable,  on  account  of  the  Seven  Years' 
War,  to  obtain  supplies  from  North  America,  had 
to   pass    a   resolution    to    eat    no   bread.     But    the 


The  Count's  Successors.  189 

missionaries  were  not  entirely  neglected.  At  the 
monthly  missionary  meetings  collections  for  Foreign 
Missions  were  made.  But  the  amomit  thus  raised 
was  very  small.  In  1758,  e.g.,  the  Central  Fund  was 
only  £300,  and  the  sum  sent  out  to  the  missionaries 
was  only  £200.  For  the  purpose  of  supplying  them 
with  food  and  clothing  three  auxiliary  societies  were 
founded.  The  first  was  the  Dutch  "  Brethren's 
Society  for  the  Spread  of  the  Gospel  among  the 
Heathen,"  founded  in  1738,  and  renewed  in  1795  ; 
the  second,  the  English  S.F.G.,  founded  May  8th 
(N.S.),  1741  ;  and  the  third,  the  American  "  Society 
of  the  United  Brethren  for  Propagating  the  Gospel 
among  the  Heathen,"  founded  in  1745,  and  renewed 
in  1788.  The  first  sent  out  parcels  to  Surinam ; 
the  second  to  Labrador ;  and  the  third  both  to 
Zeisberger  and  his  colleagues  and  to  the  West  Indies. 

But  even  with  the  aid  of  these  Societies  expenses 
could  not  be  entirely  covered. f  At  one  important 
General  Synod  (1775),  a  new  Central  Mission  Fund 
was  established  ;  fourteen  years  later  the  debt  on 
the  work  was  £12,000,  and  by  1800  this  debt  had 
vanished. 

Let  us  now  see  how  much  each  missionary  cost  the 
Church  Fimds.  In  the  year  1800  the  number  of 
missionaries,  counting  wives,  was  161  ;  the  cost  that 
year  to  the  Central  Fund  was  £3,000  ;    and  thus. 


■fFor  evidence  on  this  point  see  : — (1)  A.  G.  Spangenberg's  "Account 
of  Moravian  Missions,"  1782  ;  (2)  C.  I.  La  Trobe's  Preface  to 
Vol.  I.  of  "Periodical  Accounts,"  p.  7,  and  Introduction,  p.  15  ; 
(3)  Peter  Braun's  Letter  in  "  Retrospect  of  the  Mission  in 
Antigua,"  p.  8.  Both  Spangenberg  and  La  Trobe  state  that 
no  missionary  received  a  salary  ;  and  Braun's  letter  shows 
clearly  that  if  the  missionary  was  out  of  work  he  was  on  the 
verge  of  starvation.  "  We  have  nothing  to  eat  except  a 
little  bread  made  of  the  flour  sent  us  by  our  American  Brethren 
and  Sisters,  for  three  months  we  have  had  no  work,  and 
consequently  no  means  of  earning  anything.  My  dear  wife 
has  been  so  reduced  by  illness  and  sufiering  that  she  is  little 
but  skin  and  bone." 


190        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

the  expense  on  each  missionary  was  only  £18  12s. 

(c)     Choice  of  Men.     For  two  reasons  the  Moravian 
Church  still  insisted  that,  while  scholarly  men  were 
not    excluded,    most    of   the   missionaries    must   be 
drawn  from  the  artisan  and  labouring  classes  ;  first, 
because  such  men  were  best  able  to  endure  a  rough 
life ;     and  secondly,  because,  in  the  Church's  opinion, 
higher  education  was  not  required.     On  each  of  these 
points  C.  I.  La  Trobe,  the  English  Mission  Secretary, 
was   most   emphatic.     Students,    he   said,    did   not, 
as  a  rule,  make  as  good  missionaries  as  mechanics  ; 
and  in  the  sphere  of  education  the  missionary  needed 
only  four  great  qualities.     First,  he  must  have  a  good      ' 
knowledge  of  the  Scriptures  ;    second,  a  good  under-      ' 
standing  ;  third,  a  friendly  disposition  ;    and  fourth,      \ 
a  heart  filled  with  love  to  God.f     But  this  system       i 
had  one  great  disadvantage.     With  a  few  exceptions — 
such  as  Zeisberger  and  Kleinschmidt — the  eighteenth 
century  Moravian  missionaries  did  very  little  trans- 
lation work.     For   systematic   Scripture  translation 
no  proper  provision  could  be  made. 

{d)  The  Lot.  On  this  matter,  too,  the  Brethren 
were  faithful  to  Zinzendorf.  At  the  General  Synods 
no  vote  was  valid  unless  confirmed  by  the  Lot. 
By  the  Lot  men  were  appointed ;  by  the  Lot  new 
work  was  planned  ;  and  by  permission  of  the  Lot 
alone  were  missionaries  allowed  to  marry.  Let  a 
few  examples  show  how  the  Lot  was  used.  By 
Lot  the  Managing  Board  decided  to  continue 
the  Mission  in  Tranquebar  ;  by  Lot  it  closed  the 
station  at  Hoop,  in  Surinam  ;  by  Lot  Kohlmeister 
was  called  to  Labrador ;  by  Lot,  in  South  Africa, 
candidates  were  admitted  to  Baptism  and  the  Lord's 
Supper.     In    due   time,    however,    there   was   made 

tSee  his  "  Concise  Account,"  "  Periodical  Accounts,"  Vol.  II., 
Appendix,  p.  3. 


The  Count's  Successors.  191 

one  great  exception.  At  the  General  Synod  in  1789, 
the  Brethren  decided  that  the  Lot  should  no  longer 
be  used  in  business  matters. 

{e)  Attitude  to  Government.  According  to  Zin- 
zendorf,  every  missionary,  -wheresoever  his  lot  was 
cast,  must  love  and  honour  the  King  of  the  country  ; 
that  spirit  animated  his  successors  ;  and  one  result 
of  this  pohcy  was  that,  wheresoever  the  missionaries 
went,  they  had  the  sjonpathy  of  the  Government. 
Washington  praised  their  work  among  the  Red 
Indians  ;  Sir  Hugh  Pallisser  aided  them  in  Labrador  ; 
Governors  supported  their  work  in  the  Danish  West 
Indies  ;  Paramaribo  officials  begged  them  to  preach 
to  the  slaves  ;  Danish  officials,  in  Greenland,  called 
the  Moravian  converts  the  cream  of  the  country  ; 
and  the  Earl  of  Caledon,  in  South  Africa,  asked  the 
Moravian  Church  to  build  a  station  near  Cape  Town. 

In  these  five  ways,  therefore,  Zinzendorf 's  successors 
followed  his  lead. 

2.    Changes  of  Method. 
(a)     Government.     Under    Zinzendorf   the    system 
was   an   absolute   monarchy  ;     under   his   successors 
it  was  more  democratic.     The  three  most  important 
steps  were  as  follows  : — 

(a)    General  Synod,  1764. 
At    this    Synod    two    important    measures    were 
passed  : — 

(1)  That  henceforth  the  General  Synod,  con- 
sisting partly  of  ministers  and  missionaries, 
and  partly  of  elected  deputies,  should  be 
the  supreme  authority  both  in  home  and 
in  foreign  matters.  (Thereby,  the  Moravian 
Church  adopted  an  unique  position.  In 
the  Moravian  Church,  Foreign  Missions 
were   the   work   of  the   Church   as   such ; 


192        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

in   other   Protestant   Churches   they  were 
committed  to  special  societies.) 

(2)  Foreign  Missions  were  to  be  managed  by 
a  Board  called  the  "Missions  Deputation"; 
and  this  Board  was,  of  course,  appointed 
by  the  General  Synod. 

(b)  General  Synod,  1769. 

All  Moravian  Church  matters  were  to  be  managed  by 
one  Board,  called  the  Unity's  Elders'  Conference.! 
This  Board  was  divided  into  three  departments,  and 
one   department   managed   the   Foreign   Missions. 

(c)  General  Synod,  1789. 

The  U.E.C.,  as  such,  was  to  manage  Foreign 
Missions,  and  the  Mission  Department  was  to  be  a  sub- 
office.  Thus  Foreign  Missions,  more  than  ever,  became 
the  direct  concern  of  the  whole  Church.  This  arrange- 
ment lasted  a  hundred  years.  General  Synod  repre- 
sented the  Church  ;  by  that  Synod  the  U.E.C.  was 
appointed,  and  by  that  U.E.C.  the  Foreign  Missions 
were  managed.  In  every  department  of  the  work 
the  authority  of  the  U.E.C.  was  supreme.  U.E.C. 
appointed  Spangenberg  to  prepare  a  "  Missionary's 
Guide "  ;  U.E.C.  appointed  men  to  their  posts ; 
U.E.C.  sent  official  inspectors.  Thus  did  the  Brethren 
replace  the  rule  of  one  man  by  the  rule  of  the  whole 
Moravian  Church.  Formerly,  the  missionaries  had 
obeyed  Zinzendorf ;  now  they  obeyed  the  U.E.C, 
and  in  obeying  the  U.E.C.  they  obeyed  the  whole 
Church. 

(b)  The  First  Fruits  Idea.  The  next  change  was 
still  more  important.  For  two  or  three  years  before 
Zinzendorf's  death,  John  de  Watteville  and  other 
leaders  had  been  expressing  dissatisfaction  with 
Zinzendorf's    First    Fruits    Idea ;     Watteville   even 

fHenceforth  referred  to  as  U.E.C. 


The  Count's  Successors.  198 

expressed  the  hope  that  for  every  convert  gained 
there  might  soon  be  a  thousand  ;  and  now  the  whole 
Moravian  Church,  by  a  SjTiodal  resolution  (1764), 
declared  that  henceforth  it  would  endeavour,  not 
merely  to  seek  for  Candace-Souls,  but  to  preach  the 
Gospel  to  all,  strengthen  the  fields  already  established, 
and  organize  these  fields  as  integral  parts  of  the 
Church.  For  this  purpose  the  "  Conference  "  system 
was  now,  as  far  as  possible,  applied  to  the  mission- 
fields.  Each  field  now  became  a  province ;  each 
province  now  had  its  "  Helpers'  Conference  "  ;  and 
each  Helpers'  Conference  had  its  president.  At  the 
close  of  the  century  the  provinces  were  as  follows  : — 
(1)  Danish  West  Indies,  (2)  Jamaica,  (3)  Antigua, 
(4)  Barbados,  (5)  St.  Kitts,  (6)  South  Africa, 
(7)  North  America,  (8)  Surinam,  (9)  Labrador, 
(10)  Greenland.  Thus  did  the  Mora\'ian  Church  reject 
Zinzendorf's  First  Fruits  Idea;  thus  did  she  also 
reject  his  theory  that  the  time  for  the  heathen 
had  not  yet  come ;  thus,  taking  Matthew  xiii.,  47, 
as  a  motto,  did  she  become  in  the  fullest  sense  a  true 
Missionary    Church. 

(c)  Missionary  Literature.  Finally,  in  opposi- 
tion to  Zinzendorf's  views,  the  Moravian  Church 
now  authorised  the  publication  of  missionary 
literature.  The  system  adopted  by  Zinzendorf  was 
peculiar.  During  his  lifetime  no  mission  histories, 
no  magazines,  no  systematic  accounts  were  published. 
At  Hermhut  there  was  a  body  of  clerks,  who 
copied  out  the  diaries  and  letters  sent  home  by  the 
missionaries ;  each  congregation  received  a  copy ; 
and  the  general  understanding  was  that  each  con- 
gregation heard  the  same  reports  on  the  same  day. 
Once  a  month  there  was  a  missionary  meeting, 
called  "  Congregation  Day."  At  that  meeting  the 
diaries  and  letters  were  read,  and  sometimes  the 
reading    process    lasted    several    hours.     With    this 


194        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

mode  of  instruction,  however,  Zinzendorf  s  successors 
were  not  content.  He  had  made  known  the  facts 
to  Moravians  only  ;  they  would  make  them  known 
to  the  general  public ;  and,  therefore,  they  now 
authorised  the  following  publications  : — 

1.  Books. 

(a)  "  History  of  Greenland,"  f  David  Cranz,  1765 

(German  and  English). 

(b)  "  History  of  the  Moravian  Church,"  Part  II., 

including  sketches  of  all  the  Mission-fields, 
David  Cranz,  1771.     (German  and  English.) 

(c)  "  Succinct  View  of  the  Missions,"  Benjamin 

La  Trobe,  1771.     (English.) 

(d)  "  History   of  the   Mission   in   St.    Thomas, 

St.  Croix,  and  St.  Jan,"  G.  A.  Oldendorp, 
1777.     (German.) 

(e)  "  Account  of  the  Brethren's  Work  among 

the  Heathen,"   A.  G.  Spangenberg,  1782. 
(German   and    English.) 

(f)  "  History    of    the    Mission    to    the    North 

American  Indians,"   G.  H.  Loskiel,  1789. 
(German  and  English.) 

(g)  "  History  of  the  Moravian  Church,  1769 — 

1801,"  J.  R.  Hegner.     Mostly  a  record  of 
missionary  work  (German  only). 

2.  Magazines. 

(a)  "  Reports  from  Moravian  Congregations,"* 

issued    for    general    circulation,    but    not 
printed  till  1819  (German). 

(b)  "  Periodical  Accounts  relating  to  the  Missions 

of   the    Church    of   the    United    Brethren 
established    among   the    Heathen,"    1790. 


tThis  book  was  highly  praised  by  Dr.  Johnson  :  "  The  man  who 
could  not  relish  the  first  part  was  no  philosopher,  and  he 
who  could  not  enjoy  the  second  was  no  Christian." 

*"  Naohrichten    au«   der    Briidergemeine." 


The  Count's  Successors.  195 

First  Editor,  Christian  Ignatius  La  Trobe  ; 
published  by  the  Society  for  the  Further- 
ance  of  the   Gospel,    and   printed   at    10, 
Nevill's   Court,    Fetter    Lane.      The    first 
Missionary     Magazine     in     the     English 
language, 
(c)   "  Reports    of    the    Evangelical    Brethren's 
Missions  to  the  Heathen,"  1798  ;    Dutch. 
Published    by    the    above-mentioned    {see 
p.  189)  Dutch  Auxiliary  Society. 
It  is  doubtful  how  far  this  change  was  beneficial. 
Formerly  the  Church  members  had  heard  reports  direct 
from  the  missionaries  ;    now  they  read  the  story  in 
cold  print ;    and  one  result  of  the  change  was  that, 
while    missionary    information    was    more     widely 
diffused,  there  was  no  longer  the  same  personal  touch. 

8.  The  Moravian  Church  and  the 
Slave  Trade. 
(a)  C.  I.  La  Trohe's  Policy.  Among  the  Christian 
ministers  in  England,  no  one  hated  slavery  more 
than  C.  I.  La  Trobe,  the  Moravian  Mission  Secretary 
in  England,  and  the  Editor  of  "  Periodical  Accounts." 
In  his  "  Letters  to  my  Children,"!  C.  I.  La  Trobe 
says  that  when  he  was  a  boy  at  Fulneck  School, 
he  read  Captain  William  Snelgrave's  "  A  New 
Account  of  Guinea  and  the  Slave  Trade "  ;  that 
book  filled  his  young  soul  with  horror  ;  and  later 
he  was  the  personal  friend,  not  only  of  William 
Wilberforce,  but  of  Dr.  Porteous,  Bishop  of  London, 
and  of  Lady  Middleton.  Why,  then,  did  C.  I.  La 
Trobe   not   support   Wilberforce   in   public  ?     W^hy 

tin  this  book  La  Trobe  mentions  a  fact  noticed  by  very  few 
historians.  Who  was  the  first  person  to  suggest  that  the 
question  of  the  abolition  of  the  slave  trade  be  brought  before 
the  House  of  Commons  ?  Wio  first  inspired  Wilberforce  to 
take  up  the  cause  ?  Not  Clarkson,  as  most  historians  assert, 
but  Lady  Middleton,  wife  of  Sir  Charles  lliddleton,  Comptroller 
of  the  Navy,     See  Letter  IL,  pp.  21-22. 


196        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

did  he,  in  private,  call  the  slave  trade  a  monster  and 
yet  make  no  public  attempt  to  kill  it  ?  Why  did  he 
not  espouse  the  cause  in  "  Periodical  Accounts  "  ? 
Because  he  feared  that,  if  he  did  so,  the  slave-traders 
would  attack  the  Moravian  missionaries  and  destroy 
the  Mission.  For  this  reason,  therefore,  La  Trobe 
adopted  a  very  cautious  policy.  Privately,  and  as  a 
personal  friend,  he  supported  Wilberforce,  and 
supplied  him  with  useful  information.  On  the  other 
hand,  as  an  official,  La  Trobe  maintained  a  dead 
silence.  No  hint  of  his  opinions  appeared  in 
"  Periodical  Accounts,"  and  not  till  1815  did  he 
make  them  generally  known. 

(b)  The  Moravian  Method.  According  to  C.  I. 
La  Trobe,  the  Moravian  missionaries  in  the  West 
Indies  never  interfered  between  masters  and  slaves. 
Bishop  Spangenberg  makes  a  similar  stateipent,  and 
in  his  "  Account  of  the  Brethren's  Work,"  he  says — 
without,  unfortunately,  giving  the  date  and  place — 
that  on  one  occasion  the  West  Indian  missionaries 
passed   the   following   resolutions  : — 

(1)  We   will   consider   it   as   our   duty   that   our 

missionaries  among  the  heathen  are  not  to 
interfere  with  the  commerce  between  them 
and  the  merchants,  which  ought  never  to 
be  disturbed  by  us  or  by  any  fault  of  ours. 
Nay,  we  will  faithfully  inculcate  to  the 
heathen  who  belong  to  us  that  they  must 
in  their  dealings  avoid  all  fraud  and  deceit 
(which  are  otherwise  so  peculiar  to  the 
heathen),  and  that  they  shall  approve  them- 
selves honest  and  upright  in  all  respects. 

(2)  We  will  never  omit  diligently  to  set  before  the 

slaves  the  doctrines  which  the  Apostles 
preached  to  servants.  Servants  in  those 
days  were  almost  universally  slaves.     We 


The  Count's  Successors.  197 

will  put  them  in  mind  that  it  is  not  by 

chance,  but  of  God,  that  one  man  is  a  master 

and  another  a  slave,   and  that,  therefore, 

they  ought  to  acquiesce  in  the  ways  of  God  ; 

nay,   that   their   service,    if  done   with   all 

faithfulness  for  the  sake  of  Jesus,  is  looked 

upon    as    though    they    were    serving    the 

Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

(3)     We  will  frequently  remind  the  heathen  of 

what    Paul    saith :     "Let    every    soul    be 

subject  to  the  higher  powers  ;    for  there  is 

no  power  but  of  God  ;    the  powers  that  be 

are  ordained  of  God." 

By    teaching   these   principles    the    Brethren    made 

the  slaves  fit  for  freedom,  and  that  was  their  real 

contribution  to  the  cause. 

(c)  The  Result.  In  reply  to  a  question  addressed  1787 
to  him  by  a  Conunittee  of  the  Privy  Council,  C.  I. 
La  Trobe  described  the  good  work  done  by  the 
missionaries  among  the  slaves.  Among  La  Trobe's 
chief  friends  was  William  Wilberforce  ;  to  Wilberforce 
he  showed  his  report ;  and  one  of  Wilberforce's 
arguments  in  Parliament  was  that,  by  their  excellent 
work,  the  Moravians  had  made  many  slaves  fit  for 
freedom.  Thus,  in  their  own  quiet  way,  did  the 
Moravian  missionaries  aid  the  cause.  By  their 
work  among  the  slaves  they  gave  Wilberforce  his 
strongest  argument. 

4.  Influence  Over  Other  Missionary 
Societies. 
For  sixty  years  (1782-92)  the  Moravian  Church 
had  been  the  only  real  Protestant  Missionary  Church 
in  the  World  ;  now,  towards  the  close  of  the  century, 
there  arose  other  Protestant  Missionary  Societies, 
and  the  interesting  point  to  notice  is  that,  in  the 


I' 


198        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

formation  of  some  of  these  Societies,  the  Moravian 
Church,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  played  a 
prominent  part. 

The  first  Protestants  influenced  by  the  Brethren 
were  the  Methodists.  In  their  case,  however,  their 
influence,  as  far  as  Foreign  Missions  were  concerned, 
was  only  indirect.  As  John  Wesley  met  several 
Moravian  missionaries — e.g.,  David  Nitschmann  on  the 
Simmonds,  Spangenberg  in  Georgia,  and  Bohler  in 
England — he  must  have  admired  their  zeal  for  the 
conversion  of  the  heathen.  Further,  he  must  have 
heard  much  about  Foreign  Missions  at  Herrnhut, 
and  in  his  famous  "  The  World  is  my  Parish," 
he  echoed  Zinzendorf's  words  :  "  We  must 
proclaim  the  Saviour  to  the  world."  His  Gospel 
zeal  led  in  time  to  Foreign  Missions.  Peter 
Bohler  influenced  John  Wesley ;  John  W^esley 
influenced  Dr.  Coke  ;  Dr.  Coke  preached  in  the  West 
Indies  ;  and  before  the  close  of  the  century  Wesleyan 
missionaries  were  preaching  to  the  slaves  at  Kingston 
in  Jamaica. 

On  the  Baptists  the  influence  of  the  Brethren  was 
more  direct.  For  some  years  before  he  preached 
his  sermon  at  Nottingham,  William  Carey,  the 
leader  of  the  famous  Serampore  Three,  had  been 
famiUar  with  the  Brethren's  work.  He  read  their 
magazine,  "  Periodical  Accounts  "  ;  he  referred 
expressly  to  their  work  in  his  pamphlet,  "  Enquiry 
into  the  Obligations  of  Christians  to  use  Means  for 
the  Conversion  of  the  Heathen  "  ;  and,  finally,  in 
the  famous  scene  referred  to  in  the  opening  chapter 
of  this  book,  he  appealed,  in  so  many  words,  to  their 
1792  example.  "  See  what  these  Moravians  have  done," 
he  said.  "  Can  we  not  follow  their  example,  and,  in 
obedience  to  our  Heavenly  Master,  go  out  into  the 
world  and  preach  the  Gospel  to  the  heathen  ?  "  His 
words    meant    more    than    most    readers    generally 


The  Count's  Successobs.  199 

suppose.  He  was  referring,  when  he  said  Moravians, 
not  only  to  Germans,  but  to  Englishmen.  According 
to  one  modern  writer  of  mission  history,t  William 
Carey,  the  founder,  with  other  ministers,  of  the 
Baptist  Missionary  Society,  was  the  "  first  Enghsh- 
man  who  was  a  Foreign  Missionan*."  The  statement 
is  incorrect.  For  several  years  before  Carey  was 
heard  of,  a  large  number  of  British  Moravians  had 
been  toiling  in  the  foreign  field,  and  Carey,  in 
"  Periodical  Accounts,"  had  seen  some  of  their  names 
in  print.  In  Antigua  had  worked  Samuel  Isles, 
Joseph  Newby,  and  Samuel  Watson  ;  in  Jamaica, 
George  Caries,  David  Taylor,  Samuel  Church,  Samuel 
Russell,  Thomas  Shallcross,  John  Brown,  Joseph 
Powell,  John  Metcalf,  Joseph  Jackson,  John  Fred 
John,  Edward  Roberts,  Sam  Fred  Church,  and 
Christian  Lister  ;  in  St.  Kitts  and  St.  Croix,  James 
Birkby ;  in  Barbados,  Benjamin  Brookshaw  and 
John  Fozzard  ;  in  Tobago,  John  Montgomery,  the 
father  of  James  Montgomery,  the  well-known  hymn- 
writer  and  poet ;  in  Labrador,  William  Turner, 
Samuel  Towle,  James  Branagan,  James  Rhodes,  and 
Christian  Lister  ;  and  in  North  America,  Wilham 
Edwards.  From  these  facts  we  are  justified  in 
concluding  that  William  Carey  was  inspired  by 
the  example,  not  only  of  German  Moravians, 
but  also  of  Moravians  with  British  blood  in  their 
veins. 

His  companion,  Marshman,  was  also  indebted 
to  the  Brethren. 

"  Thank  you,  Moravians,"  he  said,  "  you 
have  done  me  good.  If  I  am  ever  a  missionary 
worth  a  straw,  I  shall,  under  our  Saviour,  owe  it 
to  you." 

Again,  the  Moravians  had  something  to  do  with 
the  foimdation  of  the  London  Missionary  Society. 

tG«orge  Smith,  "Short  History  o£  Chriatian  Mifsione,"  p.  160. 


200        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Among  the  founders  of  the  Society  one  of  the  most 
influential  was  Rowland  Hill.  He  had  read  much 
about  Moravian  Missions,  corresponded  with  Peter 
Braun  of  Antigua,  and  owed  his  zeal,  very  largely, 
to  Braun's  example.  The  other  founders  also  came 
under  Moravian  influence.  They  all  dipped  into  the 
pages  of  "  Periodical  Accounts  "  ;  they  brought 
copies  of  that  magazine  to  their  meetings  ;  and,  in 
their  speeches,  they  enforced  their  arguments  by 
referring  to  what  the  Moravians  had  done.  But  the 
influence  of  the  Moravians  did  not  end  here.  The 
Society  was  founded,  the  leaders  consulted,  and  not 
knowing  how  to  do  their  work,  they  addressed  to 
Christian  Ignatius  La  Trobe  the  following  practical 
questions  : — 

1.  How  do  you  obtain  your  missionaries  ? 

2.  What  is  the  true  calling  of  a  missionary  ? 

3.  Do   you   demand   scientific   and   theological 

learning  ? 

4.  Do    you    consider    previous    instruction    in 

Divine  things  an  essential  ? 

5.  How  do  you  employ  your  missionaries  from 

the  time  when  they  are  first  called  to  the 
time  when  they  set  out  ? 

6.  Have   you    found    by    experience   that   the 

cleverest  and  best  educated  men  make  the 
best  missionaries  ? 

7.  What    do    you    do    when    you    establish    a 

missionary    station  ?     Do    you    send    men 
with  their  wives,  or  single  people,  or  both  ? 

8.  What   have   you   found   the   most   effective 

way   of  accomplishing   the   conversion   of 
the  heathen  ? 

9.  Can  you  tell  us  the  easiest  way  of  learning 

a  language  ? 


The  Count's  Successors.  201 

10.     How  much  does  your  missionary  ship  cost 
you  ? 

To  these  questions  La  Trobe  repUed  in  detail, 
the  founders  thanked  him  for  his  courtesy,  and  the 
first  apostles  of  the  L.M.S.  went  out  with  Moravian 
wisdom  in  their  heads  and  Moravian  instructions  in 
their  pockets.! 

And  so,  at  the  close  of  the  eighteenth  century, 
the  Brethren  found  themselves  in  a  new  position. 
For  sixty  years  they  had  toiled  almost  alone. 
Henceforward,  they  had  friends  on  every  hand. 
In  Germany,  the  members  of  the  "  Society 
for  Christian  Fellowship  "  were  contributing  funds 
for  Moravian  Missions  and  laying  the  foundations 
of  the  Basel  Missionary  Society  ;  in  England  arose 
the  Chur<?h  Missionary  Society,  the  London 
Missionary  Society,  and  the  Baptist  Missionary 
Society ;  in  Scotland,  Presbyterians  had  founded 
the  Scottish  Missionary  Society,  the  Glasgow 
Missionary  Society,  and  the  Northern  Missionary 
Society ;  and  thus,  at  the  dawn  of  what  Dr.  A.  T. 
Pierson  calls  the  "  Modern  Mission  Century,"  the 
Brethren  took  their  place  as  a  regiment  in  that  great 
Protestant  Army  which  had  now  undertaken,  like 
Zinzendorf  years  before,  to  proclaim  the  Saviour  to 
the  World.  ' 

What,  then,  had  the  Moravians  done  when  William 
Carey  issued  his  great  challenge  at  Kettering  ? 
They  had  sent  out  more  than  300  missionaries ;  they 
had  estabUshed  stations  in  the  West  Indies,  in  North 
America,  in  Surinam,  in  Greenland,  and  in  Labrador  ; 
they  had  attempted  to  convert  the  Jews ;  they  had 
sent  expeditions  to  Lapland,  Russia,  Guinea,  South 
Africa,   Ceylon,   Algiers,   Constantinople,   Wallachia, 


fin  his  "  History  of  the  L.M.S.,"  the   Rev.    C.    SilTcster  Home 
makes  no  reference  to  these  fact*. 


202        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

the  Calmucks,  Livonia,  Persia,  Egypt,  Abyssinia,  the 
Tartars,  the  Coromandel  Coast,  the  Nicobar  Islands, 
and  Bengal ;  and  now  they  had  under  their  charge 
14,976  baptized  converts.  At  the  General  Synod 
in  1789,  the  official  returns  were  as  follows  : — 
Danish  West  Indies,  6,690 ;  British  West  Indies, 
6,820  ;  South  America,  312  ;  North  America,  200  ; 
Greenland,  891  ;    Labrador,  63 ;    total,   14,976. 


BOOK  II. 


THE  BUILDERS. 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

1.  Jamaica  ;   or  West  Indies  ;   Western 

Province,  1805-1914 207 

2.  The  West  Indies  ;  Eastern  Province, 

1800-1914 230 

8.     Greenland,  1800-1900 236 

4.  The       North       American      Indians, 

1808-1901 246 

5.  Surinam,   1800-1914 250 

6.  South      Africa,      West  ;       or      the 

Hottentots,   1792-1914     ....    266 

7.  South  Africa,  East  ;    or  the  Kaffirs, 

1828-1914 288 

8.  Labrador,  1804-1914 300 


»s) 


I 


Chapter  I. 

JAMAICA. 

1.     John  Lang,  1805—1818. 

As  Jamaica  has  often  been  described  as  the 
"  Fairest  Jewel  in  the  British  Crown,"'  and  as  it  is 
quite  as  civihsed  as  England,  some  readers  may 
fondly  imagine  that,  except  in  the  pioneer  days, 
our  missionaries  had  few  trials  to  endure.  It  is, 
therefore,  all  the  more  needful  to  remember  that, 
while  they  did  not  liY£_among  savages,  they  had, 
during  the  nineteenth  century,  a  long  succession 
_9f  foes  to  overcome.  Each  leader  had  a  hard  problem 
to  solve  ;  each,  though  in  a  quiet  way,  helped  to 
uplift  the  people ;  and  each,  though  he  did  not  covet_ 
the  honour,  might  be  described  as  a  Hero,  ^ 

The  first  leader  of  note  was  John  Lang.  At  the 
time  when  he  arrived  on  the  scene,  there  was  only 
one  Moravian  Church  in  Jamaica  ;  that  Church  was 
situated  at  Old  Carmel,  and  the  scene  that  greeted 
John  Lang's  eyes  was  enough  to  break  his  heart. 
On  three  sides  of  the  building  lay  a  black  swamp. 
Among  reeds  and  bushes  alligators  lifted  their  snouts  ; 
behind  the  building  lay  a  churchyard  surrounded 
by  a  brick  wall,  with  broken  bottles  at  the  top  ;  the 
Black  River  close  at  hand  reeked  with  deadly  germs ; 
and  gnats  and  mosquitoes  buzzed  in  the  sultry  air. 
For  thirteen  years  John  Lang  held  the  fort  in  this 
death-trap.  As  Moravian  missionaries  still  received 
no_  salaries,  John  Lang's  first  task  was  to  earn 
his  own  li\ing.  For  this  purpose,  like  his  pre- 
decessors, he  not  only  kept  a  small  plantation  worked 
by  slaves,  but  also  dealt  in  cattle  and  logwood, 
and  acted  as  wajn^'arden  for  the  Government ;  and 
thus  he  earned  sufficient,  not  only  for  himself,  but 

287) 


208        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

also  for  his  two  colleagues,  Joseph  Jackson  and  John 
Ellis,  at  the  little  out-preaching  places  of  Two-Mile- 
Wood  and  Mesopotamia. 

For  three  or  four  years  John  Lang  laboured  in 
vain.  "  Oh  !  Jamaica,  Jamaica  !  "  he  writes  in  his 
diary  (1809),  "  dead  as  a  flint,  yea,  hard  as  adamant 
to  all  that  comes  of  or  from  God  ! "  The  cause  of 
his  despair  was  two-fold.  Both  the  planters  and  their 
slaves  seemed  hopeless.  For  most  of  the  planters 
he  could  not  say  a  good  word,  and  other  observers 
confirmed  his  testimony.  In  our  own  House  of 
Lords  one  planter  boldly  declared  that,  so  far  as  he 
knew,  not  a  single  planter  in  Jamaica  was  true  to  his 
marriage  vows ;  Lady  Nugent,  the  Governor's 
wife,  was  shocked  by  the  planters'  immorality,  and 
described  their  disgusting  habits  in  her  "  Jamaica 
in  1801  ";  and  Archibald  Monteith,  a  Moravian 
Negro  lay  preacher,  speaking  about  the  planters 
as  he  knew  them,  declared  that,  while  many  of  them 
were  good-hearted  and  treated  their  slaves  with  kind- 
ness, the  idea  that  adultery  was  wicked  was  not  even 
entertained.  Among  the  slaves  moral  conditions  were 
even  worse.  _Most  of  them  believed  iiL  Obeahism, 
only  a  very  few  could  read  or  write,  and  the  Biblfiwas 
generally  known  as  the  "White  Man's  Book."  On 
some  of  the  estates,  it  is  true,  large  numbers  of 
slaves  had  been  baptized.  But,  so  far  as  our  evidence 
goes,  the  baptism  was  a  sham.  No  religious 
instruction  was  given,  the  slaves  regarded  the 
rite  as  a  form  of  magic,  and  sometimes,  it  is  said, 
the  service  was  followed  by  a  dance. 

The  first  spiritual  impulse  came  from  the  United 
States.  For  some  months  an  American  evangelist, 
named  George  Lewis,  created  quite  a  sensation  in 
Jamaica.  His  services  were  attended  by  thousands, 
and  often  lasted  till  the  small  hours  of  the  morning. 
The  slaves  had  what  they  called  "The  Convince,"  and 


The  West  Indies — Western  Province.    209 

asked,  like  the  Philippian  jailer,  what  they  must  do  to 
be  saved.  Some  resorted  to  fasting ;  some  had  -wonder- 
ful dreams  ;  and  one  convert,  Robert  Peart,  brought 
the  revixal  to  Old  Carmel.  And  the  ^tury  he  told 
John  Lang  was  characteristic.  To  him,  as  to  many 
others  in  the  island,  there  had  been  granted  a  vision. 
In  that  vision,  said  Robert  Peart,  he  had  seen  a 
stranger  ;  three  times  the  stranger  approached  and 
kissed  him  ;  and  that  stranger  was  no  other  than  the 
Lord  Christ  Himself.  For  some  weeks  John  Lang 
knew  not  what  to  make  of  this  reWval ;  then  he  had 
an  interview  with  Cieorge  Lewis  ;  and,  being  con- 
vinced that  the  man  was  genuine,  he  took  the  tide 
at  the  flood.  It  is  strange  how  events  turned  out. 
As  soon  as  the  church  at  Old  Carmel  began  to  be 
crowded,  John  Lang  was  regarded  as  a  dangerous 
character.  By  certain  planters  he  was  now  accused 
of  teaching  sedition ;  some  of  his  converts  were 
summoned  before  the  magistrates,  and  the  nature  of 
his  work  may  be  judged  by  the  answers  given  in 
Court : — 

"  What  sort  of  instruction  do  you  receive  ?  " 

*'  We  are  taught  to  beheve  in  God  and  Jesus 
Christ." 

'•  Well  !    What  more  ?  " 

"  We  must  not  tell  hes." 

"  What  more  ?  " 

"  We  must  not  steal  from  ^lassa." 

"  What  more  ?  " 

"  We  must  not  run  away  and  rob  Massa  of  his 
work." 

"  What  more  ?  " 

"  We  must  not  pretend  to  be  sick  when  we  are  not." 

''  What  more  ?  " 

"  We  must  not  have  two  wives,  for  by-and-by 
they  will  get  jealous  and  hurt  one  another,  and 
Massa's  work  will  fall  back." 


210        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

"  What  more  ?  " 

"  We  must  pray  for  buckra  and  everybody." 
The  examination  was  of  fundamental  importance. 
The  more  closely  John  Lang's  work  was  examined, 
the  more  obvious  it  became  that,  so  far  from  being 
a  dangerous  teacher,  he  was  teaching  the  slaves  to 
be  obedient ;  all  his  colleagues  acted  on  the  same 
principle ;  and  now,  encouraged  by  many  white 
friends,  the  Brethren  founded  new  stations  at 
Windsor  (1813),  Irwin  Hill  (1815),  and  New  Eden 
(1820).  At  the  height  of  his  glory  John  Lang  passed 
1818  away.  By  the  negroes  he  was  beloved,  and  was 
called  "  Parson  Lang  "  ;  his  name  is  held  in  honour 
to  the  present  day;  and  only  a  few  years  ago  (1908) — 
at  the  little  village  of  Newton,  near  Old  Carmel — 
certain  admirers  erected  the  "  John  Lang  Memorial 
Church."  ^j^,___^ 

2.     John  ELLisfl824-M. 

With  John  Ellis  we  enter  on  a  new  epoch.  For 
ten  years  this  level-headed  Yorkshireman  was  the 
chief  leader  of  the  Mission  in  Jamaica.  During 
that  period  three  great  events  occurred,  and  those 
events  laid  the  foundation  of  the  prosperity  of  the 
cause. 

(1)  The  first  was  the  foundation  of  Fairfield  on 
1824  the  May  Day  Hills  (1824).  For  this  move  the 
Brethren  had  a  special  reason.  Among  the  slaves 
who  attended  the  church  at  Old  Carmel,  large 
numbers  came  down  from  the  May  Day  Hills  ;  these 
slaves  were  of  a  higher  type  than  those  v/lio  lived 
in  the  valley  ;  and  the  Brethren  very  soon  perceived 
that  if  they  would  have  true  success  they  must  follow 
what  they  called  "the  mountain  people."  In  all 
probability,  the  cause  of  the  difference  in  character 
was  climatic.  In  the  valley,  the  slaves  were  inclined 
to  be  lazy  ;   on  the  hills  they  were  alert  and  energetic. 


The  West  Indies — Western  Province.  211 

For  the  missionaries,  too,  the  change  was  beneficial. 
In  the  past  they  had  hved  by  a  fever-swamp  ;  hence- 
forward they  breathed  pure  mountain  air.  For 
beauty  and  health  aUke  Fairfield  was  almost  un- 
equalled in  the  island.  In  sunmier  the  temperature 
never  rose  above  80  deg.  Fahrenheit ;  in  winter 
fires  were  rarely  needed  ;  and  all  the  year  round,  in 
the  morning  and  evening,  the  air  was  sweet  and  cool. 
Nor  was  this  the  only  beneficial  change.  At  the  very . 
time  when  Fairfield  was  made  the  headquarters, 
the  Moravian  Mission  Board  began  to  pay  the 
missionaries  a  small  salary.  In  the  past,  they  had 
^een  compelled  to  work  plantations  ;  henceforward^ 
Tike  the  Anglican  clergy,  they  could  give  ail  their 
tlnie  to  spiritual  work ;  and,  therefore,  for  the 
Tirst  time  they  were  now  treated  with  more  respect 
by  the  planters.  At  Old  Carnicl  the  Brethren 
had  been  despised ;  at  Fairfield  they  were  highly 
honoured  ;  and  many  of  the  planters  now  assisted 
the  cause.  At  Fairfield  itself  one  planter  preached 
under  a  fig-tree,  and  another  gave  all  the  timber 
for  the  new  church.  At  New  Carmel,  Hutchinson 
Scott  not  only  gave  the  land,  but  also  erected  a 
temporary  church,  made  a  road,  and  entertained  the 
missionaries  at  his  own  house.  At  New  Eden, 
Edmund  Green  gave  twenty-six  acres.  At  New 
Bethlehem,  James  Miller  gave  the  land  ;  at  Beaufort 
and  Salem,  the  planters  were  at  least  friendly;  and 
finally,  at  Lititz,  the  Hon.  D.  Snaife  not  only  gave 
the  land,  but  added  a  donation  of  £100.  The  situation, 
therefore,  is  fairly  clear.  With  Fairfield  as  their 
headquarters,  and  with  the  aid  of  friendly  planters, 
the  Bretliren,  under  Ellis's  leadership,  had  now  a 
firm  and  permanent  footing  in  the  Parish  of 
Manchester. 

(2)  Secondly,  John  Ellis  was  a  great  Sunday-School 
pioneer.     At  the  time  when  he  arrived  in  Jamaica, 


212        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

the  great  problem  of  n^gro^e^ducatiou^ had.-llQt,  even 
1826-'34  been  eoiisidered  ;  neither  Church  nor  State  had  hfted 
a  finger  ;  and,  so  far  as  I  have  been  able  to  discover, 
the  only  person  in  Jamaica  who  had  tried  to  teach 
negro  children  to  read  and  write  was  a  certain  Mrs. 
Cooper,  of  the  Cruse,  an  estate  not  far  from  Fair- 
field. John  Ellis,  however,  tried  to  solve  the  whole 
problem.  It  is  well  to  note  the  exact  order  of  events. 
First^n^_18263^  John  Ellis,  with  the  permission  of  the 
local  planters,  opened  a  small  Sunday  School  at 
Fairfield,  and  his'^wire  became  the  first  Sunday 
School  teacher ;  then  his  friend,  Mrs.  Hutchinson 
Scott,  wrote  to  the  London  Association  in  aid  of 
Moravian  Missions^  .urging  that  something  definite 
be  done  for  negro  education ;  then,  in  response  to  that 
Tetter,  the  London  Association  formed  the  "  Negro 
School  Fuiid^'l;  then  some  English  ladies  founded 
The  "  Ladies'  Negro  Education  Spcietj^ " ;  then  this 
Ladies'  Society  opened  a  branch  in  Jamaica,  and  the 
Secretary  of  the  Jamaica  Branch  was  Mrs.  Cooper, 
of  tlie  Cruse  ;  and  thus  we  have  the  interesting  fact 
that,  while  a  Moravian  missionary  opened  the  first 
Sunday  School,  the  first  people  in  Jamaica  to  propose 
an  education  fund  ^\■e^c  two  planters'  wives.  The 
new  movement  rapidly  spread.  B\  the  year  183-4 
every  Moravian  Church  had^itsSiuiday  School.  Some 
of  the  teachers  were  whites  ;  others  juvenile  slaves, 
trained  by  the  Brethren ;  and  others  veterans  who  had 
trained  themselves.  For  regular  service  each  teacher 
received,  at  first,  a  small  fee  of  £3  10s.  a  year  ;  and 
the  scholars  were  encouraged  by  a  system  of  rewards. 
Each  child  who  arrived  in^  time,  i.e.i_at  9  juai., 
received  a  ticEet ;  this  ticket  had  money  yaluej 
and  oncea  quarterT^accordlng  to  the  number  of  his 
tickets^  the  child  received  a  book-prize^ 

(3)     With  Sunday  Schools,  however,  neither  Ellis 
nor  his  colleagues  were  content.     The  first  man  to 


The  West  Indies — Western  Province.    213 

open  a  day  school  was  John  Scholefield  ;    the  place  July,  1827 
was  Mt.  Airy,  near  New  Carmel;    and_by  the  year 
1834  each  station  also  possessed  its  day_school. 

Meanwhile,  during  this  pefiodT^reat  events  had 
been  taking  place  in  Jamaica,  and  by  those  events 
the  real  value  of  the  Brethren's  work  was  tested. 
The  situation  may  be  briefly  explained.  At  the  very 
time  when  John  Ellis  took  charge  of  the  work  at 
Fairfield,  Fowell  Buxton,  in  the  House  of  Commons, 
carried  his  momentous  resolution  :  "  That  the  state 
of  slavery  is  repugnant  to  the  principles  of  the 
British  constitution  and  of  the  Christian  religion." 
Soon  after  a  law  was  passed  forbidding  the  flogging 
of  slaves  in  the  open  air,  and  the  consequence  was 
that  Emancipation  became  the  grand  topic  of  dis- 
cussion. For  eight  years  Jamaica  was  in  a  ferment,  1823-31 
and  in  due  course  the  excitement  led  to  violence. 
On  the  one  hand  certain  planters,  at  a  mass  meeting, 
passed  a  solemn  resolution  that  if  emancipation 
were  granted  they  would  simply  defy  the  British 
Government ;  on  the  other  hand  certain  slaves, 
chiefly  in  the  Parish  of  St.  James,  heard  that 
emancipation  had  been  granted  already,  and  that 
all  the  slaves  would  be  free  on  Christmas  Day  ;  and, 
therefore,  when  Christmas  Day  arrived,  and  no 
further  news  had  been  heard,  they  broke  into  open 
rebellion  and  fired  a  hundred  plantations.  For  some 
weeks  the  greatest  excitement  prevailed.  The  red  1831 
glare  in  the  sky  could  be  seen  at  Fairfield,  fifty  miles 
away.  Some  of  the  planters  galloped  in  terror  to 
the  coast ;  others  formed  a  small  defensive  army  ; 
the  chief  rebels  were  speedily  caught  and  hanged  ; 
and  red-coats  were  stationed  at  the  church  doors. 
At  this  crisis  the  Moravian  converts  shewed  how  well 
they  had  been  taught.  Instead  of  encouraging  hopes 
of  emancipation — which,  they  said,  might  or  might 
not  be  granted  sooner  or  later — all  the  missionaries 


214        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

had  consistently  urged  their  converts  to  be  loyal  and 
obedient.  *'Do  not  listen,"  they  would  say,  "to 
foolish  stories,"  and  now  they  had  their  legitimate 
reward.  At  Fairfield  there  was  not  one  sign  of 
disorder  ;  at  New  Eden  the  converts  promised  that, 
much  as  freedom  might  be  desired,  they  would  use 
no  illegal  means  to  obtain  it ;  at  Fulneck,  New  Carmel, 
and  Mesopotamia,  not  one  convert  struck  work ; 
and  finally,  those  who  struck  work  in  other  places 
were  easily  persuaded  to  resume  work.  But  the 
finest  spirit  was  shewn  in  the  Parish  of  St.  James. 
Among  the  converts  at  Irwin  Hill  were  five  Native 
Helpers  ;  all  five  were  employed  on  neighbouring 
estates ;  and  now,  when  the  rebellion  burst  out, 
all  five,  as  James  Light,  the  missionary,  declared, 
"  did  their  duty  to  their  earthly  masters."  At 
Williamsfield,  Robert  Hall  defended  his  master's 
house  so  stoutly  that  the  rebels  put  a  price  on  his 
head.  At  Irwin,  William  Hall  stored  water  in 
buckets,  and  thereby  prevented  the  fire.  At  Wor- 
cester, William  Dickson  saved  his  master's  property, 
and  received  a  suitable  reward  for  so  doing.  At 
Tyrall,  the  Native  Helper  appointed  a  patrol,  and 
thereby  preserved  the  property  intact ;  and  finally, 
at  a  small  estate,  named  Fairfield,  the  Helper  per- 
suaded all  the  slaves  to  be  loyal.  Let  us  not  attribute 
this  conduct  to  fear  or  policy.  With  all  the  force  at 
his  command,  James  Light,  at  Irwin  Hill,  had 
endeavoured  to  promote  good  feeling  between  planters 
and  slaves ;  both  sides  had  profited  by  his  discourses, 
and  the  slaves  under  his  care  were  loyal,  not  because 
they  had  a  servile  spirit,  but  because  they  had  learned 
to  honour  their  masters. 

But  now  the  Brethren  had  an  unpleasant  sur- 
prise. In  spite  of  their  efforts  on  behalf  of 
law  and  order,  ma,ny  of  the  Moravian  missionaries 
were    accused    of    disloyalty.      For    some    months 


The  West  Indies— Western  Province.    215 

there  w^g  an  q^^g"^^ — mm  our  that  they  were^ 
secret  preachers  of  sedition.  One  missionary, 
Henrj^  Pfeiffer,  was  seized  at  New  Eden,  carried  to 
Mandeville,  imprisoned  in  the  organ  loft  of  the  Jan.,  1832 
Parish  Church,  and  tried  on  the  charge  of  preaching 
a  seditious  sermon ;  and  though  Pfeiffer  was,  of 
course,  acquitted,  there  was  still  a  great  deal  of 
suspicion  against  the  Brethren.  In  order  to  probe 
the  matter  to  the  bottom,  the  House  of  Assembly 
appointed  a  Committee  of  Inquir\\  The  result 
was  curious.  With  perfect  truth  the  Committee 
reported  that  once  in  eight  weeks  the  Moravian 
Missionary  held  a  private  meeting  with  his  converts, 
commonly  kno\\'n  as  a  "  speaking "  ;  at  these 
"  speakings,"  suggested  the  Committee,  the  recent 
rebellion  had  probably  been  hatched  ;  and  acting  on 
this  naive  suggestion,  the  House  of  Assembly  issued 
a  declaration  that  the  teaching  and  preaching, 
not  only  of  Moravians,  but  also  of  "  Wesleyans  and 
Methodi-^ts,"  had,  to  say  the  least,  a  seditious 
tendency. 

But  tlie  ill-feeling_  against- the  Moravians  did  not 
last  very  long.._  In  reply  to  the  Committee  of  Inquiry, 
tlie  Brethren  issued  a  "  Remonstrance,"  wherein  April, 
they  explained  fully,  not  only  how  their  converts  1832 
had  been  taught,  but  how  they  had  behaved  during 
the  rebellion ;  and  this  simple  statement  was  so 
convincing  that,  so  far  from  being  suspected,  ,the__ 
.Brethren  were  now  praised  for  their  loyalty.  The 
Bishop  of  Jamaica,  Lipscombe,  spoke  in  their  praise  ; 
the  new  Governor,  Earl  Mulgrave,  promised  to 
protect  them,  visited  Fairfield,  and  allowed  his  wife 
to  become  the  Patroness  of  the  Female  Refuge 
School ;  and  testimonials  in  the  Brethren's  favour, 
signed  by  magistrates,  clerks,  and  other  government 
officials,  were  printed  in  tjie  Jamaica  Courani  and  the 
Kingston   Chronicle.^ 


216        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

At  length,  by  means  of  two  Acts  of  Parliament,  the 
long  desired  emancipation  was  granted.  By  the 
first  Act  (August  1st,  1834),  the  slaves,  before  becom- 
ing free,  had  first  to  serve  a  short  term  of  apprentice- 
ship ;  by  the  second  (August  1st,  1838),  the 
apprenticeship  system  was  abolished,  and  emancipa- 
tion granted  outright ;  and  thus  two  different  days, 
August  1st,  1834,  and  August  1st,  1888,  came  after- 
wards to  be  known  as  EmancipatiQn  Day. 

On  each  occasion  thanksgiving  services  were  held, 
and  on  the  second,  the  more  important,  the  scene 
at  Fairfield  was  one  long  remembered.  At  4  a.m.  the 
church-bell  began  to  chime  ;  during  the  morning 
the  converts  arrived,  arrayed  in  dazzling  white ; 
and  so  great  was  the  congregation  that  the  officials 
had  to  divide  it  into  two  sections.  Inside  the  Church, 
the  preacher  was  Ellis's  successor,  Jacob  Zorn ; 
outside,  under  a  fig-tree,  his  native  assistant,  Price  ; 
and  each  preached  from  the  words  :  "If  the  Son, 
therefore,  shall  make  you  free,  ye  shall  be  free 
indeed."  In  the  Church  itself  the  excitement  was 
uproarious  ;  and  three  times  the  delighted  people 
interrupted  the  preacher. 

"  You  must  give  the  glory  to  God,"  said  Zorn. 

"  Yes,  Massa  !  "  the  people  answered.  "  We  do 
thank  the  Lord  for  it.     Bless  the  Lord  !  " 

At  the  close  of  the  service  all  the  converts  sang 
the  following  prayer  : — 

Jesus,  the  great  Deliverer, 
Our  sluggish  wills  provoke  ; 

Thy  better  freedom  to  desire, 
Freedom  from  Satan's  yoke. 

But  Zorn,  being  a  practical  man,  desired  something 
more  than  praise  and  thanksgiving.  Freedom,  in 
his  opinion,  liad  its  dangers  ;  some,  he  feared,  might 
use  it  to  take  to  drink  ;    and,  therefore,  before  the 


The  West  Indies — Western  Pbovince.    217 

proceedings  closed,  he  founded  his  first  Temperance 
Society.  The  day  was  over ;  the  old  order  had 
passed  ;  and  new  problems  now  awaited  the  Brethren. 

3.     Jacob  Zorx,  1834-43. 

As  soon  as  the  Jamaica  negroes  obtained  their 
freedom,  many  people  in  the  island  feared  that  they 
would  make  a  bad  use  of  the  gift.  At  first  sight  the 
prospect  was  alarming.  Among  the  hills  there  still 
lived  fierce  Maroons  ;  in  the  woods  young  lads  ran 
naked  and  hved  on  raw  potatoes  ;  in  the  to^Mis 
there  was  a  rum-shop  at  every  corner.  From  these 
facts  pessimists  drew  their  o^\ti  conclusions.  *'  Most 
of  the  negroes,^  thcv  said,  "will  work  no  more,  the__ 
common  peace  will  be  broken,  wives  will  be  kicked 

to^  death  ~and    children    neglected,    and    drink    will 

destroy  its  thousands." 

With  these  dismal  forebodings,  however,  the 
Brethren  entirely  disagreed ;  to  Jacob  Zorn,  the 
new  leader,  emancipation  was  simply  a  great  oppor- 
tunity ;  and  rehing  on  the  uphfting  power  of  the 
Gospel,  he,  like  ElHs,  his  predecessor,  attempted 
three  methods  of  reform  : — 

(1)  First,  being  a  lo5'al  Moravian,  he  endeavoured 
to  estabhsh  as  many  new  stations  as  possible.  In 
1834  the  Brethren  founded  Beaufort ;  in  1838  Xew 
Hope  and  Bethany  ;  in  1839,  Lititz  ;  and  in  1840 
Bethabara.  At  most  of  these  places  Zom  himself 
acted  as  land-sur\-eyor ;  he  had  also  a  fascinating 
manner,  and  "  obtained  subscriptions  from  the 
Governor  ;  and  thus  he  strengthened  the  Moravian 
Church,  nor~oiiIy  in  numbers  and  influence,  but 
aTso  In  prestige. 

(2J     Secondly,    like   John   Ellis,    Zorn  ]aid   great 

stress  oneducation.     But  Zorn  was  not  content  with      1835 
Elhs's  Methods.     ElUs  had  merely  endeavoured  to 
estabhsh    Day    Schools ;     Zom    hoped    to    estabhsh 


218        A  History  of  Mob  avian  Missions. 

Bogxding  Schools  ;  and  his  reason  for  this  poHcy 
was  that,  so  far  as  he  could  see,  the  children  would 
never  make  much  progress  unless  they  were  separated 
from  their  parents.  On  this  point  lie  wrote  an 
important  letter  to  his  supporters  in  England 
(August  18th,  1835).  "  Let  us,"  he  pleaded,  "  establish 
in  Jamaica  a  number  of  Industrial  Boarding  Schools  ; 
let  those  schools  be  staffed  by  competent  teachers 
from  England  ;  and  let  the  children  in  those  schools, 
by  means  of  their  own  industry,  earn  sufficient  for 
their  own  maintenance." 

His  schenae  ha4  spme  prospect  of  success.  In 
the  year  1835 — i,^,  immediately  after  the  first 
Emancipation  Act — the  British  Government  in- 
augurated its  system  of  Annual  Parliamentary 
Grants  for  purposes  of  Negro  Education.  The 
first  grant  for  Jamaica  was  £20,000  ;  the  Moravian 
share  of  this  sum  was  £1,500,  and  one  condition 
laid  down  by  the  Government  was  that  for  every 
£l  provided  by  the  State  the  Church  concerned  should 
raise  10s,  To  those  terms  the  Moravian  Church 
agreed.  The  Moravian  Mission  Board  promised 
the  needed  £750  ;  the  Society  for  the  Furtherance  of 
the  Gospel  opened  a  Negro  School  Building  Fund  ; 
and  with  the  £2,250  now  in  hand  the  Brethren  soon 
erected  thirteen  schools.  In  two  important  respects, 
however,  Zorn  was  disappointed.  First,  so  far  as 
I  can  discover,  these  schools  did  not  become  Industrial 
Schools ;  secondly,  they  were  not  Boarding  Schools, 
but  Day  Schools  ;  and  though,  in  the  reports  I  read  of 
children  who  brought  five  days'  rations  with  them, 
and  who,  therefore,  might  be  called  weekly  boarders, 
Zorn's  boarding  school  idea  was  not  fully  realised. 
Most  of  the  pupils  still  lived  with  their  parents  ;  those 
parents,  in  many  cases,  were  still  half  heathen ; 
and  this  fact  partly  accounts  for  the  trpjiiblesjifififtcdjed 
in  the  next  section. 


The  West  Indies — Western  Protince.    219 

With  this  state  of  things,  however,  Zom  was 
dissatisfied.  **At  all  costs."  he  contended,  "negro 
boys  must  be^wifFidrawn  from  their  parents  and 
taught  industrious  habits."  For  this  purpose,  there- 
fore, he  now  opened  at  Fairfield  his  "  Manual  Labour 
and  Training  School."  Here  the  boys  were  1840 
genuine  boarders  ;    here  they  learned  to  wash  their 

J2][IIL_^'^f!^.    f'nmb    fhpir    nwn    hair,    maVp    thcir    own 

beds,  and  sweep  the  rooms  ;  and  here  they  tilled 
the  school  garden,  and  thereby,  to  some  extent, 
paid  their  own  board.  For  many  years  t^is  sphnnl^ 
though  small,  rendered  efficient  service ;  some  of 
tTie  pupils  became  good  day-school  teachers,  while 
others,  after  a  short  course  at  the  Mico  Institution, 
Kingston,  became  local  preachers ;  and  the  real  tragedy 
of  the  situation  was  that,  on  account  of  the  lack 
of  money,  similar  schools  could  not  be  opened  fit  the 
other  stations^ 

(3)  His  last  scheme  was  even  more  ambitious. 
At  the  very  time  when  he  opened  his  training  school, 
the  Basel  Missionary  Society  was  seeking  for  colonists 
for  Central  Africa  ;  one  of  their  agents,  Reis,  came 
to  Jamaica  ;  and  the  result  of  his  ^'isit  was  that 
five  Mora\'ian  families  sailed  for  Africa.  Nor  was 
even  this  the  best.  Among  Zorn's  pupils  in  the 
training  school,  five  offered  for  missionary  ser\'ice  ; 
these  five,  he  fondly  hoped,  would  soon  become  a 
thousand,  and  thus,  he  said,  Africa  would  be 
evangelized  by  native  preachers  from  Jamaica. 
With  these  bright  dreams  to  cheer  his  soul,  Jacob 
Zom  passed  to  his  reward.  His  life,  like  that  of 
most  pioneers,  was  partly  a  success,  and  partly  a 
failure.  In  his  attempt  to  establish  good  day- 
schools  he  succeeded  ;  in  his  attempt  to  establish 
Industrial  Boarding  Schools  he  failed ;  and  the  value 
of  his  strenuous  life  must  be  estimated,  not  so  much  by 
what  he  accomplished,  but  by  the  ideals  he  cherished. 


220        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

4.     John  Henry  Buchner,  1843 — 1857. 

The  next  leader  had  still  harder  problems  to  solve. 
As  the  sun  was  setting  one  February  evening,  a 
vessel  neared  the  mouth  of  the  Black  River  ;  on  the 
deck  stood  young  John  Henry  Buchner,  gazing  with 
delight  on  the  distant  heights  of  Fairfield ;  and  before 
he  had  been  very  long  in  Jamaica,  John  Henry 
Buchner  discovered  that,  in  spite  of  the  numerous 
schools  opened  with  the  aid  of  the  Government, 
most  of  the  people  were  still  the  victims  of  super- 
stition, ignorance  and  vice.  Against  each  of  these 
foes  of  progress  Buchner  fought  a  long  fight. 

(1)  The  first  was  a  curious  form  of  superstition. 
Within  a  few  weeks  of  his  arrival,  Buchner  lay  ill 
of  yellow  fever  at  Irwin  Hill ;  strange  sounds  floated 
in  through  his  bedroom  window ;  and  when  he 
asked  the  meaning  thereof,  he  was  told  that  the 
Myalmen  were  performing.  The  situation  was 
alarming.  For  some  reason,  which  no  one  could  quite 
understand,  the  negroes  in  the  Parish  of  St.  James 
had  long  been  known  as  far  more  excitable  than 
those  in  other  parts  of  the  island.  There  the  recent 
rebellion  had  been  hatched  ;  there  the  estates  had 
been  burned  to  the  ground ;  and  there,  soon 
after  Buchner's  arrival,  both  the  Obeahmen  and 
the  Myalmen  drove  the  people  frantic.  Let  us 
first  look  at  the  Obeahman  or  Obeah.  He  was 
really  the  priest  of  a  very  old  heathen  religion. 
According  to  the  popular  belief,  each  Obeah,  like 
a  Surinam  sorcerer,  possessed  the  power  of  causing 
diseases  ;  for  the  sum  of  three  or  four  shillings  he 
would  undertake  to  slay  an  enemy  ;  and  now  the 
whole  Parish  of  St.  James  lay  imder  a  reign  of  terror. 
His  usual  method,  it  is  said,  was  to  come  to  the 
enemy's  house  by  night  and  leave  a  parcel  at  the  door. 
In  the  morning  the  housewife  discovered  the  parcel ; 


The  West  Indies — Western  Province.    221 

in  the  parcel  lay  a  few  feathers,  or  a  little  grave- 
mould  ;  and  then,  within  a  few  weeks,  some  one  in 
the  household  died.  Let  us  not  regard  this  trouble 
as  a  light  one.  In  spite  of  the  fact  that  they  were 
mipostors,  the  Obeahs  had  a  real  hold  on  the  people. 
Fear,  said  Buchner,  was  the  real  cause  of  death  ; 
fear  paralysed  both  body  and  mind;  fear  even 
caused  some  to  commit  suicide.  For  many  years 
this  fear  of  the  Obeahs  increased  the  death-rate  in 
Jamaica ;  even  Morayiao,  Church  members  "were 
sometinies  deceived  ;  and  once,  as  late  as  1888,  the 
Brethren,  in  the  little  village  of  Xewton,  discovered  a 
terror-stricken  victim. 

The  other  evil,  MyaUsm,  was  of  a  different  nature. 
Accordmg  to  their  own  account,  the  Myalmen  had 
been  specially  raised  up  by  God  to  deal  with 
Obeahism  ;  and,  just  as  the  Obeahs  claimed  to  be 
possessed  by  the  devil,  so  the  Myalmen  claimed  to 
be  filled  with  the  Holy  Ghost.  In  outward  form, 
therefore,  the  Myalmen,  after  a  fashion,  claimed  to 
be  Christians ;  in  reality  they  were  the  Church's  most 
dangerous  enemies ;  and  claiming  to  have  received 
Di\ine  revelations,  they  asserted  that  they,  and  they 
alone,  could  overcome,  not  only  the  cruel  Obeahs,  but 
every  conceivable  form  of  moral  evil.  It  is  not  quite 
certain  whether  they  were  rogues  or  fanatics.  Accord- 
ing to  Buchner  many  of  them  were  sincere  ;  Buclmer 
was  an  excellent  judge  of  character  ;  and  his  opinion 
must  be  treated  with  respect.  For  some  months, 
in  order  to  attract  attention,  they  behaved  more 
hke  buffoons  than  inspired  prophets,  wearing  a 
special  costume,  squatting  in  the  hollows  of  trees, 
singing  songs  about  Father  Abraham,  Christ,  and  the 
Holy  Spirit,  and  flying  along  the  country  roads  like 
a  swimmer  doing  the  breast-stroke ;  and  then, 
after  some  of  them  had  been  arrested  for  brawling 
in    Church,    and    also    for    committing   assault  and 


222        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

battery,  the  public  gradually  made  the  painful 
discovery  that  while  these  prophets  claimed  Divine 
revelation  they  were  really  both  workers  and  teachers 
of  iniquity.  No  one,  said  the  Myalmen,  can  be  truly 
religious  unless  he  is  immoral ;  and  no  man  truly 
happy  without  a  harem.  x\t  their  evening  services, 
which  were  held  under  a  cotton  tree,  they  generally 
opened  with  a  hymn  ;  then  the  rum  bottle  passed 
round  ;  and  then,  like  men  bewitched  by  Comus, 
they  indulged  in  '*  midnight  shout  and  revelry,  tipsy 
dance  and  jollity." 

For  a  dozen  years  this  poisonous  teaching — the 
teaching  that  true  Christianity  encourages  sin- 
wrought  incredible  damage  in  Jamaica.  No  teaching 
could  be  more  ruinous  to  body  and  to  soul ;  some 
of  the  Moravian  converts  themselves  were  affected  ; 
and  the  missionaries,  Buchner  declared,  had  ever  to 
be  on  the  watch. 

(2)  For  these  evilSiin  Buf'-hner's  ojoimoiT^bp  pnly 
remedy  was  more  education.  In  opposition  to  the 
Brethren,  the  Myalmen  always  denounced  Biblical 
study.  "  Let  us  not  rely,"  they  said,  "  on  books  ; 
let  us  rely  directly  on  the  Holy  Ghost ;  and  thereby 
we  shall  see  how  misguided  the  missionaries  arc." 
The  r€al  cau^e  ojLthejimible,  thereJore,_was  ignorance  ; 
ignorance  led,  not  only  to  sin,  but  also  to  laziness  ; 
and  laziness  was  causing  economic  ruin.  In  spite 
of  Zorn's  heroic  efforts,  most  of  the  children  wcr_e 
still  uneducated.  In  the  Moravian  settlements  he 
had  succeeded ;  in  the  country  districts  he  had 
failed ;  and  Buchner  endeavoured  to  remedy  the 
defect  by  establishing  "  Country  Schools."  The  scene 
in  the  country  districts  was  appalling.  The  fields 
once  teeming  with  sugar-canes  were  now  overgrown 
with  bushes ;  the  gates  were  broken,  the  stores 
empty,  and  the  living-houses  dismantled ;  and 
the  tenants,  instead  of  tilling  the  soil,  basked  and 


The  West  Indies — Western  Province.    223 

smoked  tobacco  in  the  sun.  At  first  sight  the 
situation  seemed  hopeless.  For  the  children  in  the 
country  districts  the  State,  so  far,  had  done  nothing. 
Once  more,  however,  Mrs.  Hutchinson  Scott  came 
to  the  rescue.  At  her  request  the  money  was 
provided '  by  the  London  Association  in  Aid  of 
Moravian  Missions  ;  the  Moravian  Church  in  Jamaica 
found  the  headmasters  ;  and  the  converts,  by  free 
labour,  erected  the  buildings.  By  means  of  these 
Country  Schools,  therefore,  Buchner  and  his  colleagues 
fought  with  ignorance  and  sloth.  In  1850^  there 
were  fifteen  schools,  with  573  scholars  ;  in  1865.  forty 
oM^T^^^wifh  9,««fi  Rf^hffl^^  In  these  schools  nearly 
air^he  headmasters  were  natives.  §ome  of  them 
came  from  the  T'rammg  School  ar  Fairfield  ;  others 
were  simply  trustworthy  church  members ;  and 
most  of  them  were  selected  for  their  piety,  rather 
than  for  their  learning.  The  chief  subject  taught  in_ 
the  schools  was  the  Bible ;  reading,  ^^ritillg  and_ 
arithmetic  were,  of  course,  included  ;  and  taking 
the  Scriptures  as  his  tQ^-book,  the  headmaster 
taught  the  children  to  be  clean,  to  be  polite,  to  be 
good,  and  to  be  happy.  TKe  daily  morning  scene  is 
worth  describing.  At  9  a.m.  the  laughing  children — 
some  naked,  and  some  in  Osnaburg  shirts — streamed 
to  the  schoolyard  from  the  woods  ;  and  each  child 
brought  his  dinner  with  him,  either  in  a  calabash 
or  in  a  tin  can.  In  the  school-yard  they  now  formed 
into  line.  As  soon  as  the  morning  hymn  had  been 
sung,  the  children  entered  the  school,  set  the  tin 
cans  in  a  row  along  the  school  wall,  took  their  places 
and  faced  the  teacher  ;  and  the  teacher,  beaming 
upon  them,  said  :  "  Dear  children,  I  want  you  all 
to  love  the  Saviour."  But  the  scene  in  the 
school  was  not  always  inspiring.  For  many 
Xt^-Xs  _there  was  a  great  shortage  of  slates,  books 
and   ink-pots ;    and   the   master^s   salary   Avas   only_ 


224        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

£10  a  year.  On  the  other  hand  there  was  cause  for 
encouragement.  In  many  cases  the  children  them- 
selves had  helped  ui-the  buildmg  of  the  school  x 
and  this  fact  fostered  a  proper  pride  and  a  certain 
sense  of  school  honour.  In  the  playground  all 
was  energy  and  joy,  and,  far  happier  there  than  in 
their  own  homes,  the  children  ate  their  yams  and 
salt-fish,  spun  their  windmills,  cracked  their  whips, 
and  stood  on  their  heads. 

(3)  In  another  sense,  also,  Buchner  was  a  good 
successor  to  Zorn.  In  spite  of  the  fact  that  the 
Moravians  were  still  few  in  number,  he  believed  that 
they  alone  could  save  Jamaica  from  destruction. 
They  alone,  he  contended,  ^xercised  the  necess^ary 
discipline  ;  ..tliey  almxfv  in_any  real  sense,  combined 
religion  and  ethics  ;  they,  above  all,  had  taught 
the  people  to  teach  themselves.  In  oilier  words, 
they  alone  had  the  right  to  establish,  not  only  a 
Native  Ministry,  but  a  fully  organized  Native  Churchy 
With  that  ideal  before  them,  therefore,  the  Brethren 
now  took  three  important  steps  : — 

1841  (a)     They  opened  a  Normal  School  at  Fairfield, 

with  a  theological  department. 
1850  (b)     They    enacted    that    at    each    station    there 

should  be  a  "Council,"  possessing  certain 

governmental  powers. 
1854  (c)     They  arranged  that  suitable  Church  members 

should   be   employed  as   Scripture  Readers 

and  Assistant  Preachers. 

5,  The  Great  Revival,  1858—1860. 
The  more  closely  we  study  the  history  of  the 
^loravians  in  Jamaica  the  more  we  are  compelled 
to  recognise  that  the  most  important,  pait  nf  their 
work, was  the  educational.  By  teaching  the  children 
the  Bible  they  developed  a  high  moral  ideal  ^  by 
means   of  their  industrial   schools   tluy   encouraged 


The  West  Indies — Western  Province.    225 

initiative  :  and  now,  soon  after  his  departure  from 
Jamaica,  Buchner  heard  that  his  work  among  the 
young  was  producing  remarkable  results.  The  first 
move  was  made  at  Fairfield.  According  to 
Sonderman,  head  of  the  Training  School,  the  first 
"  convert  "  was  one  of  the  students  ;  then  a  few  1858 
others  formed  a  club  for  Bible  reading;  then  all 
the  students,  of  their  own  accord,  not  only  formed 
a  Juvenile  Missionary  Association,  but  even  wrote 
a  letter  to  the  children  in  the  Sunday  School  urging 
them  to  join ;  and  the  importance  of  the  whole 
movement  lay  in  the  fact  that  for  the  first  time 
young  Jamaica  Moravians  were  showing  pubUc 
spirit.  In  the  past  such  work  had  been  left  to  whites  ; 
henceforward  natives  must  take  a  lead.  In  other 
congregations  the  same  feature  was  noticed.  At 
New  Carmel  the  young  men,  without  a  hint  from 
the  missionarv',  organized  their  own  prayer  meeting ; 
at  Woodlands  young  women  rebuked  sinners  on  the 
high-road  ;  and  at  Fulneck,  under  the  influence  of 
Goodwin  North — a  young  man  from  Heckmondwikt , 
in  Yorkshire — the  children  became  the  leaders  in  a 
revival.  By  the  young  the  Great  Revival  was 
started  ;  by  the  young,  chiefly,  it  was  maintained 
throughout.  Let  us  try  to  understand  its  real 
nature.  For  some  months  this  memorable  revlTal, 
which  soon  affected  old  and  young  alike,  was  dis- 
figured by  what  the  critic  may  call  excesses  ;  and 
yet,  on  the  other  hand,  we  must  remember  that 
those  excesses  were  no  worse  than  those  which 
occurred  in  England  during  the  Evangelical  Revival. 
In  outward  form  there  was  sometimes  a  slight 
difference ;  in  reaUty  the  main  features  were  the 
same ;  and  nearly  every  incident  that  happened 
in  Jamaica  might  be  paralleled  by  something  similar 
in  England.  In  most  cases,  just  as  in  England,  the 
chief    symptom    v.as    some    bodily    convulsion.     At 


226        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Fulneck  the  convicted  sinners  screamed,  gnashed, 
tore  their  clothes,  tried  to  throw  themselves  down 
from  the  gallery,  and  even,  in  some  mysterious 
cases,  were  struck  deaf  and  dumb.  At  Clifton  a 
woman  refused  food,  smashed  the  wattled  walls  of 
her  hut,  and  raged  so  furiously  that  her  neighbours 
had  to  hold  her  with  ropes.  At  Nahoe  a  young 
woman  snapped  like  a  dog,  flung  chains  and  pots  at 
her  neighbours'  heads,  and,  screaming  "  The  devil  ! 
the  devil  !  "  jumped  out  of  the  window.  At  Fair- 
field men,  convulsed  with  agony,  rolled  in  the  open 
air  under  the  fig-tree.  At  New  Hope  men  had 
twitchings  in  the  face  and  lay  speechless  for  a  fort- 
night. At  Lititz  the  very  children  writhed  on  the 
floor.  In  some  cases,  however,  the  mind  was  more 
affected  than  the  body.  Some  lay  unconscious 
for  several  days ;  others  had  remarkable  visions 
and  saw  signs  in  the  clouds;  and  others,  convinced 
that  the  Judgment  Day  had  come,  declared  that 
they  saw  Christ  in  the  sky  and  the  souls  of  the 
damned  in  hell. 

We  must  not  regard  all  this  as  mere  excitement. 
For  nearly  all  these  physical  manifestations  there 
was  a  genuine  spiritual  cause ;  that  cause,  in  most 
cases,  was  not  so  much  a  fear  of  hell,  but  rather  a 
profound  sense  of  sin  ;  and  when  the  missionaries 
inquired  into  the  matter  they  discovered  that  many 
of  the  most  respected  Church  members,  probably 
misled  by  Myalmen,  had,  while  outwardly  pious, 
been  guilty  of  secret  sin.  In  some  cases  good  Church 
members  had  pleaded  poverty,  while  all  the  time  they 
had  been  saving  money  ;  in  other  cases  the  sins  con- 
fessed were  still  more  serious  ;  and  now  men  had 
physical  convulsions  simply  because  their  consciences 
gave  them  no  peace.  For  this  reason,  therefore,  the 
Great  Revival  must  be  described  as  thoroughly 
genuine,   and  many  of  the    converts    proved    their 


The  West  Indies — Western  Province.   227 

sincerity  by  making  sacrifices.  At  Ipswich  a  con- 
verted fiddler  smashed  his  fiddle  and  tambourines  ; 
most  of  the  converts  now  became  teetotallers ; 
and  the  young  women  burned  their  fine  dresses 
and  scattered  their  rings  and  bracelets  on  the  Church 
floor.  "  We  earned  these  things  by  sin,"  they  said, 
*'  and  we  cannot  bear  the  sight  of  them."  Nor 
were  decency  and  morality  the  only  results  of  the 
Revival.  For  some  months  there  was  a  great  demand 
for  Bibles  and  Hymn-books  ;  "  The  Pilgrim's 
Progress  "  became  a  popular  book  ;  defaulters  paid 
their  Church  dues  ;  and  many  contributed  to  the 
Bible  Society  and  to  Foreign  Missions. 

6.     Two  Modern  Problems. 

The  first  is  the  great  problem  of  the  Native 
Ministry.  During  the  next  forty  or  fifty  years  the 
Moravians  were  engaged,  not  so  much  in  Church 
extension,  but  rather  in  consolidation  ;  only  seven 
new  stations — Mizpah  (1866),  Dober  (1882),  Broad- 
leaf  (1885),  Carisbrook  (1885),  Patrick  Town  (1891), 
Kingston  (1898),  and  Moravia  (1894) — were  founded  ; 
and  this  slowness  in  advance  was  due,  not  to  any 
decline  in  zeal,  but  to  the  lack  of  men  and  means. 
For  the  shortage  of  men  the  only  and  obvious  remedy 
was  the  formation  of  a  Native  Ministry.  But  the 
experience  of  the  Moravians  was  not  encouraging. 
In  1876  they  opened  at  Fairfield  a  Theological 
College ;  in  1888  that  institution  was  closed  ; 
and  the  reason  given  for  this  last  reactionary 
measure  was  that  while  some  of  the  candidates 
had  been  ordained,  and  became  acceptable 
preachers,  they  had  not  yet,  in  the  judgment  of  the 
other  missionaries,  attained  that  stability  of  character 
required  in  the  minister  of  a  congregation. 

The  other  problem  may  be  called  the  Housing 
Problem.     For  the  long  period  of  twenty-five  years,    1870-95 


228        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

one  prominent  Moravian  Missionary,  a  Swiss,  named 
Heinrich  Walder,  made  a  systematic  endeavour  to 
solve  this  problem  ;  thereby  he  became  the  negroes' 
best  friend  ;  and  at  the  close  of  his  career  the  people 
expressed  their  gratitude  in  a  testimonial.  The 
situation  may  be  briefly  explained.  In  Jamaica 
the  housing  problem  was  closely  connected  with 
the  system  of  land  tenure.  At  the  time  when 
Walder  commenced  his  labours  the  negroes  in  the 
country  districts  were  divided  into  three  classes. 
At  the  top  of  the  scale,  very  few  in  number,  were 
freeholders,  living  in  roomy  houses ;  next  came 
tenants,  in  small  cottages,  and  liable  to  be  turned 
out  by  their  landlords  ;  and  last,  the  plantation 
labourers,  packed  into  miserable  shanties,  and  earning 
perhaps,  in  the  busy  season,  about  Is.  6d.  a  day. 
But  this  division  was  moral  as  well  as  economic. 
According  to  the  size  of  the  house  he  occupied 
the  moral  character  of  the  tenant  varied.  The 
freeholders  had  a  high  sense  of  self-respect ;  the 
cottagers  were  moderately  good ;  and  the  labourers 
were  apt  to  be  degraded.  The  conclusion  was 
obvious.  The  more  freeholders  there  were  in 
Jamaica  the  higher  the  people  would  rise  in  moral 
character.  For  this  reason,  therefore,  Walder  both 
induced  and  helped  many  of  the  converts  to  become 
freeholders.  His  name  became  a  household  word 
in  Jamaica  ;  other  missionaries  followed  his  example  ; 
and  one  declared,  a  few  years  ago,  that  in  the  free- 
holder lay  the  hope  of  the  future. | 

By  these  various  methods,  therefore,  the  Moravians 
endeavoured  to  make  Jamaica  a  land  of  hope  and 
glory.  In  his  English  in  the  West  Indies,  J.  A.  Froude, 
the  historian,  who,  in  1887,  paid  a  short  visit  to  the 
island,     asserted    that    the    Moravians    had     more 


•fFor  a  brief  sketoh  of  Waldor's  life,  see   "Moravian   M  salons," 
1903,  pp.  :}0-8. 


The  West  Indies^ — Western  Province.    229 

influence   over  the   natives   than   either   Churchmen 
"or     Xoncoriformists  ;      they,     he     declared,     really 

did  the  most  good  ;t  and,  if  that  statement 
may  be  accepted  as  correct,  the  explanation 
vdW  be  found  in  the  fact  that,  while  the  Moravians 
ha\c  preached  the  same  Gospel  as  their  colleagues,  they 
have  always  exercised  a  stricter  discipline,  demanded 
and  enforced  a  high  ethical  standard,  paid  closer 
attention  to  the  individual,  studied  the  people's 
social  requirements,  and  laid  great  stress  on  education. 


t"  The  English  in  the  West  Indies."  pp.  232-3  ■  "  Of  the  Morariant 
I  heard  on  all  sides  the  warmest  praise.  They,  above  all 
the  religious  bodies  in  the  island,  are  admitted  to  hare  a 
practical  power  for  good  over  the  limited  number  of  peopl« 
which  belong  to  them.  But  the  Moravians  are  but  a  few. 
They  do  not  rush  to  make  converts  in  the  highways  and 
hedges."  See  also  p.  260,  where  Froude  describes  an  interest- 
ing interview  between  himself  and  a  Moravian  misaionary- 
Araong  other  things.  Froude  remarks  that  while  the  miB«ioaanr 
was  not  in  the  leaat  enthusiastic  about  his  "  poor  black 
sheep  "  (the  phrase  is  Froude's),  he  beid  that  the  Jamaica 
labourers  were  no  worse  than  the  English,  and  that,  if  they 
were  paid  better  wages,  they  would  probably  be  much  mora 
industrious. 


Chapter  II. 

THE  WEST  INDIES— EASTERN  PROVINCE, 
1800—1914. 

As  all  the  islands  in  the  West  Indies  are  in- 
habited by  the  same  race,  negroes — exhibiting, 
though  with  small  variations,  the  same  general 
national  characteristics — we  are  practically  justified 
in  assuming  that  in  each  island  the  Moraviaa, 
missionaries  had  the  same  problems  to  solve ;  in 
each  island  they  opened  day  schools,  trained 
evangelists,  and  founded  temperance  and  Bible- 
reading  Societies  ;  and,  therefore*  &l\  wc  need  to  do_ 
in  this  chapter  is  to  take  each  island  of  the  Lesser_ 
Antilles  in  turn  and  note  any  distinguishing  features 
of  interest.  In  the  broad  sense,  each  island  was 
simply  Jamaica  repeated  ;  in  another  sense,  each 
had  its  own  distinguishing  feature. 

1.  St.  Thomas.  In  this  island  the  distinguishing 
feature  was  a  curious  change  in  the  population, 
brought  about  by  the  Danish  Act  of  Emancipation 
(1846).  Before  emancipation  most  of  the  slaves 
lived  on  the  country  plantations ;  after  it  they 
swarmed  to  Tappus  and  turned  the  little  village 
into  the  town  of  St.  Thomas.  Before  emancipation 
the  most  important  congregations  were  New  Herrnhut 
and  Niesky  ;  after  it  the  most  important  has  been 
St.  Thomas  ;  and  thus  the  Moravians  now  minister, 
not  only  to  men  in  country  districts,  but  also  to 
citizens  in  a  busy  city.  One  fact  to  the  credit  of 
the  Brethren  should  be  emphasised.  In  1840,  six 
years  before  emancipation,  the  Danish  Government 
passed  an  Act  that  all  Moravian  slaves  should  be_ 
free ;  and  thereby  the  Government  showed  how 
highly  Moravian  work  was  valued. 

(230) 


The  West  Indies — Eastern  Province.    281 

2.  St.  John.  In  this  island  emancipation  caused 
a  still  more  radical  change.  Instead  of  seeking 
employment  in  the  towns,  most  of  the  liberated  slaves 
fled  from  the  island  altogether  ;  those  who  remained, 
aboiit^hlne  hundred,  settled  down  on  the  sea  coast ; 
and  the  missionary  who  ministers  to  their  needs 
is  such  an  all-round  man  that  the  people  call  him  the 
"Father  of  St.  John."  With  his  medicine  chest 
attached  to  his  girdle,  he  visits  every  cottage,  holds 
services  at  Emmaus  and  Bethany,  and  is  personally 
known  to  every  negro  on  the  island. 

8.  St.  Croix.  In  this  island  emancipation  had 
the  very  opposite  effect.  Instead^  of  deserting  the 
old  plantations,  the  negroes- -inad£_^Ood  bargains^ 
with  their  past  owners,  and  agreed  to  work  for_ 
wages  ;  the  plantations  flourished  more  than  ever.i. 
and  the  population  rose  to  20,000.  For  this  reason, 
therefore,  St.  Croix  became  the  most  prosperous 
island  in  the  Danish  West  Indies ;  each  of  the 
three  Moravian  stations — Friedensfeld,  Friedensthal, 
and  Friedensberg — became  a  centre  of  Christian 
activity  ;  and  the  Church  members  drove  in  fine 
style  to  Church,  and  gave  a  tenth  of  their  income  to 
Church  Funds.  The  chief  danger  in  St.  Croix  was 
drink.  For  many  years  rum  was  only  threepence 
a  bottle  ;  many  of  the  baser  sort  succumbed  ;  and 
wife-beating  and  gambling  became  very  common. 

4.  St.  Kitts.  St.  Kitts  is  the  island  of  disasters. 
In  1836  there  was  a  terrible  earthquake  ;  in  1880  there 
was  a  flood  ;  in  the  next  decade  there  was  great 
poverty,  caused  by  the  fall  in  the  price  of  sugar  ; 
and  in  1896  there  were  so  many  riots  that  the 
Government  had  to  call  out  the  mihtary.  Never- 
theless, the  Moravian  Mission  ^prospered  ;  three  new 
^atjons— Bethesda  (1821),"  Bethel  (1882),  Estridge 
(1845) — were    founded  ;      Friendly     Societies      and 


232        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Missionary  Unions  flourished ;  and  most  of  the 
members,  in  spite  of  poverty,  proved  steady  and 
loyal. 

5.  Antigua.  Antigua  became  the  pride  of  ;t^e 
Moravian  Church.  For  many  years  after  the  death 
of  "  Massa  Brown,"  Antigua  was  commonly  regarded, 
from  the  moral  and  spiritual  point  of  view,  as  the 
finest  island  in  the  British  West  Indies ;  at  the 
special  request  of  the  Government,  the  Brethren 
Biiilt  T^ewReld  (1817),  followed  five  years  later  by 
Cedar  Hall  ;  and  so  high  was  the  character  attained 
by  the  15,000  negroes  under  the  Brethren's  care, 
that  when  tlie  First  Emancipation  Act  was  passed, 
the  Government  inserted  a  special  clause  declaring 
that,  while  in  all  the  other  islands  the  slaves  must 
first  serve  a  period  of  apprenticeship,  in  Antigua 
they  should  receive  their  full  liberty  at  once.  Never 
did  the  Moravian  Church  receive  a  higlier  com- 
pliment ;  and  never  was  the  confidence  of  the 
Government  more  fully  justified.  But  the  greatest 
glories  of  Antigua  were  still  to  come.  During  the 
next  twenty  years  three  more  stations  were  founded, 
Lebanon  (1838),  Gracefield  (1840),  and  Greenbay 
(1849).  In  1855,  by  founding  a  Female  Teachers' 
Seminary,  the  Brethren  supplied  female  teachers 
for  the  day  schools  ;  in  1856,  J.  Buckley  became  the 
first  ordained  native  minister  ;  in  1890  the  Governor 
of  Antigua  was  so  impressed  by  the  Brethren's  work 
that  he  asked  them  to  open  a  mission  in  Dominica; 
and  in  1900  the  Mission  Board  opened  a  Theological^ 
College  at  Buxton  Grove.  In  Jamaica  the  attempt 
to  establish  a  native  ministry  had  failed  ;  in  Antigua^ 
it  was  much  more  successful.  For  this  high  moral 
standard  in  Antigua  much  of  the  credit  must  be 
ffiven  to  a  Yorkshireman,  l^ishop  Westerby 
(^(1838-80).  For  many  years  he  was  ~tlie  most  im- 
portant man  in  the  island.     He  introduced  organs 


The  West  Indies — Eastern  Province.    238 

into  every  Moravian  Church  ;  viTote  a  treatise  on 
hurricanes  ;  compiled  the  Communion  Liturgy  used 
in  the  West  Indies  ;  was  Chairman  of  the  Antigua 
Board  of  Education,  of  the  Poor  Law  Board,  and  of 
the  Board  of  Guardians  ;  and,  altogether,  did  so 
much  to  upUft  the  people  that,  on  his  retirement, 
they  asked  the  Governor  to  give  him  a  pension.  At 
his  funeral  Anglican  Clergymen  helped  to  carry  the 
coffin,  and  afterwards  the  people  erected  a  memorial 
fountain  to  his  memory,  f 

6.  Barbados.  The  distinguishing  [feature  of 
Barbadosrjwill  be  found  in  the  character  of  the 
people.  For  some  reason — possibly  the  presence 
of  an  Irish  element — both  the  whites  and  the  negroes 
of  Barbados  are  said  to  be  far  more  lively  and 
talkative  than  those  in  the  other  islands  ;  and  many 
Barbadians  pride  themselves  on  their  intellectual 
superiority.  But  this  feature  was  not  always 
an  advantage.  As  the  Moravians  took  no 
part  in  the  great  negro  rebellion  in  1816,  most 
of  the  planters  now  befriended  the  Mission  ;  thus 
encouraged,  the  Brethren  founded  new  stations 
at  Mt.  Tabor  (1826),  Bridgetown  (1886),  and  Chfton 
Hill  (1841) ;  and  yet,  on  the  whole,  the  missionaries 
found  the  people  hard  to  reach.  In  disposition 
the  people  were  genial  and  smart ;  in  reliability 
of  character  they  were  often  disappointing.  For 
this  reason,  therefore,  progress  in  Barbados  was 
slow.  The  island  also  suffered  from  several  disasters. 
In  1819  and  1831  there  were  terrible  hurricanes  ; 
in  1854  the  cholera  carried  off  one-seventh  of  the 
population  ;  and  two  destructive  fires  occurred  in 
Bridgetown. 

7.     Tobago.     On  this  small  island  the  Moravian 
missionary  has  long  been  the  next  most  important 

tFor  a  aketoli  of  Westerbv,  see  "  Moravian  Missions,"  August,  190S. 


284        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

man  to  the  Governor.  At  the  request  of  a  pious 
planter,  Montgomery  was  founded  (1827)  ;  two 
more  stations,  Moriah  (1848)  and  Bethesda  (1878), 
followed  ;  and  Sir  Hugh  Clifford,  after  visiting  the 
island,  declared  that  of  all  the  religious  bodies  the 
Moravians  achieved  the  most  satisfactory  results. f 
By  his  patient  labours,  he  said,  T.  L.  Clemens  taught 
the   young  people   self-respect. 

8.  Trinidad.  For  some  years  Trinidad  had  been 
the  most  prosperous  island  in  the  West  Indies. 
1890  Port  of  Spain  was  now  a  great  business  centre ; 
one  hundred  and  twenty  million  barrels  of  cocoa 
were  exported ;  and  recently  seven  hundred 
Moravians  had  found  work  on  the  island,  partly 
on  the  docks  and  partly  on  country  estates  ;  and 
now  some  Moravian  natives  at  St.  Madeleine  asked  to 
have  a  minister.  For  fifteen  years  (1890-1905) 
the  chief  worker  in  Trinidad  was  Marc  Richard, 
a  Swiss  ;  stations  were  founded  at  Rosehill  (near 
Port  of  Spain),  Chaguanas,  Manantial,  Belmont, 
Manzanilla,  L'Anse  Noir,  and  Matelot ;  and  both 
Richard  and  his  successors  discovered  that  in  no 
island  was  Moravian  work  more  needed.  In  Port 
of  Spain  many  of  the  business  men  were  morally 
corrupt,  and  the  missionary's  only  staunch  friends 
were  a  few  Free  Church  Ministers.  In  Manantial, 
heathen  Chinese  conducted  a  rum-shop  ;  in  some 
of  the  villages  there  were  many  Mahometans ; 
and  many  of  the  natives  were  still  addicted  to  old 
African  vices  and  superstitions.  With  the  aid, 
however,  of  his  native  converts,  Marc  Richard 
soon  accomplished  wonders  ;  Native  Helpers,  Native 
Catechists,  Native  Committee  Men,  and  Native 
Teachers  rendered  faithful  assistance ;  and  A.  B. 
Hutton,  Richard's  successor,  found  his  people  ready 

fSee    Blackwood's   Magazine,    "  Time   and   Tobago,"    September, 
1905,  pp.  321-2. 


The  West  Indies — Eastern  Province.     285 

to    work,    fond    of    good   music,   and   interested   in 
Biblical  instruction. 

9.     San  Domingo. — For  the   benefit   of  Mora\'ian      1907 
converts  who  had  gone  to  San  Domingo  in  search  of 
work,  a  native  minister,  J.  A.  D.  Bloice,  was  appointed 
(1907) ;    San  Pedro  became  the  headquarters  ;    and 
the  number  of  members  soon  exceeded  one  thousand. 


Chapter  III. 
GREENLAND,    1800—1900. 

For  one  hundred  years  the  Moravians  in  Greenland 
plodded  on  so  quietly  with  their  work  that,  although 
they  wrote  many  letters  home,  they  had  rarely  any- 
thing very  exciting  to  tell.  Sometimes  the  weather 
was  severe,  and  sometimes  mild ;  sometimes  the 
Greenlanders  caught  plenty  of  seals,  and  some- 
times they  were  nearly  starving  ;  sometimes  they 
increased  and  multiplied,  and  sometimes  they  were 
slaughtered  by  an  epidemic ;  sometimes  the  Brethren 
had  safe  voyages,  and  sometimes  they  were  wrecked 
and  nearly  drowned  ;  and  thus  the  same  tale  of  ups 
and  downs  was  told  from  year  to  year.  As  the 
Brethren's  field  of  labour  was  limited,  they  had  not 
much  chance  of  extension.  For  some  years  they 
remained  contented  with  the  three  old  eighteenth 
century  stations,  New  Herrnhut,  Lichtenfels,  and 
Lichtenau ;  then,  at  intervals,  they  founded 
Frederiksdal  in  the  south  (1824),  Umanak  to  the 
north  (1861),  and  Igdlorpait  (1864)  near  Lichtenau  ; 
and  thus,  eventually,  the  Brethren  commanded  the 
whole  region  from  Godhaab  to  Cape  Farewell.  In 
accordance  with  the  law  laid  down  by  Government, 
the  Greenlanders  lived,  not  only  in  the  Brethren's 
settlements,  but  at  many  fishing  places  along  the 
coast ;  and,  therefore,  in  connexion  with  each 
station  there  were  several  out-preaching  places.  The 
Brethren's  parish  was  about  300  miles  long  ;  and 
about  4,000  people  were  under  their  charge. 

At  the  request  of  certain  friends  in  Dundee, 
Matthew  Warnow  (1857)  visited  Cumberland  Inlet, 
but  reported  that  work  up  there  was  out  of  the 
question  ;     and   later,    with    a   similar   result,    John 

(236) 


Greenland.  287 

Brodbeck  (1881)  visited  the  East  Coast  of  Greenland. 
We  note  some  points  of  interest. 

1.  If  a  prize  were  offered  for  producing  veterans, 
Greenland  would  be  an  easy  winner.  The  Founder 
of  the  Mission,  Matthew  Stach,  served  thirty-eight 
years  (1733-71) ;  his  colleague,  Frederick  Bohnisch, 
twenty-nine  years  (1733-63);  John  Sorensen,  forty- 
seven  years  (1746-93)  ;  John  Gorke,  forty-three 
years  (1782-1825) ;  John  Grilhch,  forty-eight  years 
(1786-1884)  ;  Fhegel,  forty-one  years  "(1775-1816)  ; 
and  J.  Miiller,  forty-one  years  (1818-54).  But  the 
most  distinguished  veterans  of  all  were  the  Becks. 
The  first,  John  Beck,  was  in  Greenland  forty-two 
years  (1736-1777),  his  son,  John  Jacob,  fifty-two 
years  (1770-1822),  and  altogether  there  were  Becks 
in  the  service  for  more  than  one  hundred  and  fifty 
years.  The  self-denial  of  the  Brethren  was 
stupendous.  In  spite  of  improvements  in  naviga- 
tion, the  voyage  to  Greenland  was  always  dangerous, 
and  four  missionaries — Christian  Heinze,  John  R. 
Walder,  John  F.  Kranich,  and  Sophia  Konigseer — 
perished  at  sea.  The  stations  were  lonely  and  far 
removed  from  each  other;  and  thus,  far  away  from 
books,  from  doctors,  and  from  modem  scientific 
inventions,  the  Brethren  toiled  ^^ithout  a  murmur, 
among  a  dirty  and  stupid  people.  In  summer  they 
tilled  their  gardens,  mended  houses,  and  explored  the 
coast ;  in  winter,  they  kept  many  meetings  for  young 
and  old  ;    and  thus,  as  Cowper  said  : — 

Fired  with  a  zeal  peculiar  they  defy 
The  rage  and  rigour  of  a  polar  sky, 
And  plant  successfully  sweet  Sharon's  Rose 
On  icy  plains  and  in  eternal  snows. 

2.  Again,  several  Brethren  did  literary  work. 
At  the  time  when  Kayarnak  was  converted,  John 
Beck    had    begun    translating    the    Gospels.     John 


288        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Kleinschmidt,  the  elder,  continued  his  work,  and 
finished  the  whole  New  Testament ;  and  in  1828 
this  translation  was  published  by  the  British  and 
Foreign  Bible  Society.  At  various  times  other 
Brethren  produced  a  Manual  of  Christian  Doctrine, 
a  Hymn  Book,  a  Harmony  of  the  Gospels,  translations 
from  the  German  "  Nachrichten,"  and  a  Reader's 
Primer.  But,  perhaps,  the  best  Greenland  scholar 
was  Samuel  Kleinschmidt.  He  prepared  a  Greenland 
Grammar  and  Dictionary,  wrote,  in  Eskimo,  a 
Universal  History,  a  Geography,  and  a  History  of 
Missions,  and  aided  by  the  Danish  chaplain, 
Jaergenson,  translated  most  of  the  Old  Testament. 

3.  In  order  to  reach  the  outlying  districts,  the 
Brethren,  of  course,  had  largely  to  rely  on  natives. 
For  some  years,  both  at  New  Herrnhut  (1850-84), 
and  at  Lichtenau  (1860-84),  they  made  a  systematic 
attempt  to  train  Native  Helpers.  But  the  students 
never  made  any  striking  progress.  The  course 
lasted  six  years.  Two  hours  a  day  the  student 
gave  to  his  books  ;  the  rest  of  the  day  he  was 
hunting  or  fishing  ;  and  at  the  end  of  his  training 
he  received  a  rifle.  He  had,  of  course,  though 
licensed  to  preach,  to  earn  his  own  living  with  his 
hands.  If  he  merely  preached  he  received  no  salary 
at  all ;  if  he  taught  in  the  Day  School,  he  received 
six  rix-dollars  a  year.  The  success  of  the  system 
was  partial.  In  spite  of  all  the  Brethren's  efforts,  not 
a  single  student  was  found  fit  for  ordination.  Some 
caused  scandal  by  committing  sins  of  the  flesh ; 
and  only  two,  Louis  at  New  Herrnhut,  and  Stephen 
at  Lichtenfels,  could  be  left,  even  for  a  short  time, 
in  charge  of  a  station.  The  most  famous  Native 
Helper  was  Stephen.  For  two  years  he  was  left  in 
charge  of  Lichtenfels  (1892-4)  ;  and  there  he  was 
both  a  stern  teacher  and  a  kind  friend.  With  the 
zeal  of  a  temperance  orator,  he  rebuked  the  people 


Greenland.  289 

for  drinking  too  much  coffee ;  and  when  the 
influenza  came,  he  hobbled  on  his  gouty  toes 
from  hut  to  hut,  nursing  the  patients,  cooking 
their  meals,  and  reading  the  Bible  to  them.  But 
Stephen  died  in  his  early  prime,  and  the  Brethren 
never  looked  upon  his  like  again.  As  long  as  the 
Greenlanders  had  to  work  so  hard  there  was  no 
chance  of  forming  a  Native  Ministry.  They  had 
not  the  intellectual  ability  ;  they  had  not  the  time  ; 
and  they  had  not  the  character;  and,  therefore, 
finally,  the  Brethren  abandoned  the  attempt. 

4.  Another  stern  fight  was  the  fight  with 
poverty.  In  this  work  the  Brethren  were  aided 
by  the  Danish  Government.  In  order  to  encourage 
the  people  to  be  thrifty,  the  Government  even 
offered  prizes  to  all  who  had  saved  up  for  the  winter. 
For  keeping  his  kayak  the  man  received  a  shilling  ; 
for  kayak  and  gun,  a  little  more  ;  for  kayak,  gun, 
and  provisions,  a  little  more  still.  But,  in  spite  of  these 
lessons,  the  people  were  as  thriftless  as  ever.  Instead 
of  saving  up  for  the  winter,  they  either  devoured  the 
fish  they  had  caught,  or  sold  it  for  coffee  and  tobacco, 
and  then,  when  the  winter  storms  began,  the  regular 
question  in  the  Mission  House  was,  "  I  wonder 
how  our  people  vdM  fare  to-day.'* 

As  they  asked  the  question  there  would  come  a  knock 
at  the  door,  and  there  stood  a  woe-begone  family  man. 

"  Well,  what  is  it  ?  "  said  the  missionary. 

"  We  have  nothing  in  the  house  to  eat.  Can  you 
let  us  have  some  dried  herrings  ?  " 

"  But  surely,"  said  the  missionary,  "  you  have  some 
laid  up  for  the  winter." 

"  No,  not  a  single  fish." 

"  But  that  is  very  careless  of  you." 

"  If  you  loved  me,"  whined  the  hungry  beggar, 
"  you  would  never  talk  hke  that.  Ah  !  you  don't 
practise  what  you  preach." 


240        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

At  such  crises  the  missionary  shewed  both  good 
temper  and  sense.  For  every  herring  now  provided 
he  arranged  that  the  beggar  should  do  so  much  work 
the  following  spring,  and  the  agreement  was  duly 
entered  into  a  book.  But  the  Greenlanders  hated 
these  rules.  According  to  them,  Europe  was  a  land 
of  gold,  and  the  missionary  a  millionaire  ;  and  the 
man  they  loved  most  was  not  the  man  who  taught 
them  self-help,  but  the  man  who  gave  them  most 
to  eat.  If  the  missionary  promised  to  give  out 
bread,  he  could  always  have  a  full  Church.  At  best 
the  Greenlanders  were  only  grown-up  children.  At 
the  Centenary  celebrations,  for  example,  each  man 
received  a  knife,  each  boy  a  fish-hook,  and  each 
woman  and  girl  some  needles  and  pins ;  and  home  they 
trudged  that  night  with  beaming  faces.  The  more 
they  received  the  more  pleased  they  were  ;  and  the 
more  they  were  asked  to  give  the  more  they  rebelled. 
For  school  materials — slates,  pencils  and  books — 
the  fee  was  one  penny  a  session,  and  the  mothers 
thought  this  price  exorbitant.  Above  all,  the  people 
objected  when  told  that  they  should  help  to  support 
the  Mission  ;  and  even  at  the  close  of  the  nineteenth 
century  they  thought,  with  very  few  exceptions, 
that  they  should  be  paid  for  coming  to  Church. 

"  Ah  !  "  said  the  mothers,  "  the  old  missionaries 
were  the  best.  Instead  of  asking  for  subscriptions, 
they  had  something  to  give  us." 

5.  In  education  the  Greenlanders  were  equally  slow. 
As  the  boys  had  to  go  hunting  in  summer,  the 
schools  were  open  in  winter  only.  As  the  storm  raged 
outside,  the  boys  and  girls  huddled  round  the  cosy 
stove ;  and  anon,  the  boys,  glancing  out  of  the 
window,  watched  some  young  man  trying  to  paddle 
his  kayak. 

At  the  stations  the  teacher  was  generally  one  of 
the   missionaries ;     at   the   out-stations   one   of    the 


GR££NLAND.  24 1 

Native  Helpers.  But  neither  missionaries  nor  helpers 
forced  the  process.  As  long  as  the  Greenland  climate 
remained  so  severe,  the  chief  duty  of  a  boy  was  to 
manage  a  kayak,  and  the  chief  duty  of  a  girl  was  to 
help  her  mother  ;  and  neither  boys  nor  girls  were 
set  hard  tasks.  They  sang  a  hymn,  read  aloud  from 
a  primer ;  studied  Bible  pictures,  and  coveted  the 
Jews'  red  and  blue  dresses  ;  and  %\Tote  on  slates  with 
pencils  wrapped  in  bright  paper.  As  these  pencils  were 
given  out  the  greatest  excitement  prevailed ;  and 
while  the  pupil  who  obtained  the  bright  one  rejoiced, 
the  one  who  obtained  the  dullest  wept.  Sometimes  the 
boys  learned  a  little  arithmetic,  and  the  girls  sewing 
and  knitting.  The  arithmetic  had  always  a  practical 
purpose  :  "  If  a  man  can  eat  six  dried  herrings  a 
day,"  said  the  missionary,  "  how  many  herrings 
should  he  save  up  to  last  the  six  winter  months  ?  "  ; 
and  sometimes,  it  is  said,  a  bright  boy  solved  the 
problem.  With  such  small  results  the  missionaries 
had  to  be  content.  As  soon  as  a  boy  could  manage 
a  kayak  he  was  given  one  by  the  Government ; 
his  school-days  then  ended,  and  off  he  paddled 
after  seals  ;  and  even  if  he  attended  a  night-school, 
he  was  too  sleepy  to  Usten, 

"  We  must  not  expect  too  much  knowledge," 
said  a  missionary;  "if  they  know  their  Bibles  and 
Christian  doctrine,  let  us  be  content."  At  the 
close  of  the  century  there  were  24  schools,  with 
891  pupils. 

6.  In  physical  health  the  Greenlanders 
deteriorated.  According  to  one  missionary,  this 
change  was  chiefly  due  to  the  fact  that  while  in 
former  years  they  lived  on  seals,  in  later  years  they 
lived  on  herrings ;  and,  therefore,  they  had  now- 
less  fat,  less  exercise,  and  less  courage.  In  olden 
days  every  man  could  manage  a  kayak  ;  in  modern 
times  only  one  in  ten.     In  olden  days  they  dressed 


242         A  History  of  Mokavian  Missions. 

in  seal-skill,  but  now  in  European  cloth  ;  in  olden 
days  they  drank  chiefly  water,  but  now  strong 
coffee ;  and  having  less  power  to  resist  disease, 
they  fell  before  fearful  epidemics.  At  the  same  time 
the  Greenlandcrs  had  less  skill  on  the  sea  ;  each  year 
large  numbers  were  drowned  ;  and,  according  to 
Samuel  Kleinschmidt,  at  least  half  the  able-bodied 
men  died  sudden  accidental  deaths.  For  these 
reasons,  therefore,  the  Greenlanders  were  dying  out. 
In  1857  there  were  1,965  converts  ;  in  1899,  only 
870. 

7.  In  morals,  however,  the  Greenlanders  decidedly 
improved.  As  no  alcoholic  drinks  were  allowed 
in  the  country,  they  could  not  possibly  be  topers  ; 
and  although  they  are  said  to  have  drunk  coffee 
to  excess,  they  never  became  confirmed  drunkards. 
Sometimes  they  smoked  too  much  and  were  prone 
to  be  lazy.  "  If  I  only  have  tobacco,"  said  one 
pleasure  lover,  "  I  am  content,  and  need  no  con- 
version." At  the  close  of  the  century,  adultery 
was  still  fairly  common,  robbery  an  occasional 
scandal,  and  murder  almost  unknown ;  and  although 
the  poor  folk  were  still  conceited,  and  materialistic 
in  their  desires,  they  had  learned  to  be  kind  to  each 
other,  to  feed  the  hungry,  and  to  bear  trouble  with 
Christian  patience. 

8.  At  last  the  Brethren  were  faced  by  a  serious 
problem.  For  over  one  hundred  and  sixty  years 
the  Brethren  had  toiled  in  this  dreary  "  land  of 
desolation " ;  and  as  the  whole  west  coast  of 
Greenland  was  now  nominally  Christian,  some 
Moravians  held  that  the  time  had  come  to  retire 
from  Greenland  and  hand  the  converts  over 
to  the  Danish  Church.  In  order,  if  possible,  to  come 
to  a  wise  decision,  the  Mission  Board  first  sent 
Otto  Padel  to  Copenhagen  to  negotiate   both  with 


Greenland.  243 

the  Danish  (Government  and  the  Danish  Church, 
and  then,  having  gathered  information  in  abundance, 
they  submitted  the  issue  to  the  General  Synod. 
The  debate  v.as  thorough.  On  the  one  side  was 
sentiment;  on  the  other  common  sense;  and  the 
resohition  passed  was  that  "  The  work  in  Greenland  1899 
be  transferred  to  the  Danish  State  Church.'*  For 
this  decision  the  following  reasons  were  given  : — 

(1)  The  work  was  begun  as  an  aid  to  the  Danish 

Church,  and  that  aid  was  no  longer  needed. 

(2)  The    Brethren,    who    worked     among     pure 

Natives,  had  failed  to  estabhsh  a  Native 
Ministry ;  the  Danes,  who  had  worked 
i  mong  half-breeds,  had  succeeded,  and 
these  men  could  perform  the  long  journeys 
far  more  quickly  than  the  Brethren. 

(3)  The    Mission    was    costly,   and   the   Brethren 

needed  the  monc}-  for  new  work. 

(I)  The  converts  might  safely  be  left  to  Danish 
Chaplains,  now  devoted  to  the  work. 

(5)  Til  •  Danish  Government  welcomed  the  change. 
:\t  present,  they  said,  there  was  a  slight 
discord  between  the  Moravian  and  Danish 
con\erts,  and  the  idea  was  that  all  should 
belong  to  one  Church. 

Next  year  the  resolution  took  effect.  In  Green-  1900 
land  the  news  excited  mingled  feelings.  At  some 
of  the  stations  a  few  base  wretches  rejoiced,  thinking 
that  under  the  Danish  Church  they  would  have  more 
liberty  to  sin.  But  most  of  the  people  were  sorry 
and  wept  sore.  At  Umanak  the  scene  was  heart- 
breaking. As  the  Brethren's  boat  pushed  off  from 
the  shore,  the  people,  standing  at  the  water's  edge, 
tried  to  strike  up  a  chorale;  but,  alas  !  their  voices 
were  choked   in   sobs   and   the  trombones   gave   no 


244         A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

sound.     At  Igdlorpait  the  people  believed  that  they 
themselves  were  to  blame. 

"  It's  a  judgment  on  us  for  our  disobedienee," 
said  Helper  F.  Carolus. 

"  It's  worse  than  that,"  said  Maurice.  "  It's 
the  end  of  the  world." 

The  most  striking  farewell  service  was  at  Lichtenau. 
As  the  Church  would  hold  only  400  the  service  had 
to  be  held  in  the  open  air  ;  eight  hundred  Green- 
landers  sat  on  the  grass,  and  this  was  the  largest 
gathering  ever  known  in  Greenland.  The  missionary, 
Bohlmann,  took  a  photograph  of  the  scene.  Among 
those  present  was  the  new  Danish  Minister,  Baele. 
The  old  order  was  changing;  the  new  was  about  to 
begin  ;  and  after  Reigel,  the  President,  had  preached 
the  farewell  sermon,  young  Baele,  in  thrilling  tones, 
informed  the  crowd  that,  although  there  was  a  change 
of  management,  he  would  preach  the  same  Christ, 
the  same  faith,  and  the  same  Father  in  Heaven. 
At  the  close  of  the  service  there  was  a  United  Com- 
munion, and  then  the  Helpers,  in  a  hymn  composed 
by  one  of  themselves,  sang  farewell  to  their  parting, 
and  welcome  to  their  coming,  friends. 

At  last,  when  all  farewell  services  were  over,  the 
Moravian  missionaries,  with  wives  and  children, 
Sept.  Uth  were  gathered  in  the  starlit  harbour  of  Julienhaab. 
As  the  Brethren  put  off  in  boats  to  board  the  Nordlyset, 
the  Greenlanders  standing  on  the  shore  cried  out, 
"  Tread  your  path  in  peace."  For  a  week,  on 
account  of  bad  weather,  the  Nordlyset  rode  at  anchor, 
and  on  Sunday,  the  Greenlanders,  ascending  a  hill, 
played  chorales  on  their  trombones. 
Sept.  18th  Ori  Tuesday  the  wind  blew  fair  ;  the  anchor  was 
weighed  ;  and  slowly  the  Nordlyset  began  to  move. 
Around  the  great  ship  was  a  fleet  of  Greenland  boats  ; 
in  one  sat  the  faithful  band  ;  and  once  again  across 
the   waters    came   the   grand    solemn   soiuid    of  the 


Greenland. 


246 


trombones.  As  the  music  swelled  the  whole  crew 
paused  to  listen,  and  the  eyes  of  the  Moravian 
Brethren  filled  with  tears.  Along  the  coast  the  ship 
crept  slowly  southward.  A  few  days  later  Cape 
Farewell  was  passed,  and  the  story  of  Mora^ian 
Missions  in  Greenland  had  closed. 


CHArTER    IV. 

THE   NORTH   AMERICAN   INDIANS, 

1808—1901. 
As  David  Zeisbergcr  lay  on  his  death-bed  at 
Goshen,  the  sad  thought  oppressed  his  heroic  soul 
that,  after  more  than  sixty  years  of  toil,  only  three 
Christian  Indian  stations  remained;  and  now  on  these 
three  stations — Goshen  in  Ohio,  Fairfield  on  the 
Thames  in  Canada,  and  Springplace  in  Georgia — 
his  successors  concentrated  their  attention.  At  each 
place  they  endeavoured  to  save  a  dyir><7  race  ;  v.\ 
each  place  they  encountered  insuperable  difficulties  ; 
and  at  each  place,  thei-efore,  they  fought  a  losing 
battle. 

1.  Goshen.  In  this  case  the  enemy  was  drink. 
Formerly  there  had  existed  a  law,  passed  at 
Zeisberger's  request,  that  no  whisky  should  be  sold 
to  the  Indians  in  Ohio  ;  just  before  his  death,  how- 
ever, that  law  was  repealed,  and  so  many  of  the 
converts  took  to  drink  that  in  1823  the  station  was 
closed.  Only  a  few  sober  Indians  remained,  and 
these  few  were  now  transferred  to  Fairfield  in  Canada. 

1813  2.     Fairfield.—  During  the  war  between  England 

and  America  this  station  was  destroyed  ;  soon  after- 
wards, it  was  rebuilt  and  called  "  New  Fairfield  "  ; 
and  the  Brethren's  success  at  this  new  station  was 
largely  due  to  the  efficient  help  rendered 
by  the  British  Government.  Nowhere  had  the 
Delaware  Indians  a  better  opportunity  to  prosper. 
New  Fairfield  became  a  model  settlement ;  a  famous 
sorcerer,  Onin,  was  couAcrted  ;  and  the  Indians, 
for  the  time  being,  becan^.e  good  Christian  citizens. 
No  white  trader  was  allowed  to  encroach  on  the 
premises.     Each   fanii'y    had    at   least   about   forty 

(2ir,) 


The  North  American  Indians.  247 

acres  of  good  land  ;  each  family  also  received  an 
annual  government  grant  of  £2  10s.  ;  and,  if  the 
farmer  was  both  industrious  and  thrifty,  he  could 
become  a  freeholder.  For  these  privileges  the 
Indians  had  to  pay  no  taxes.  In  the  eyes  of  the  law 
the  Indians  were  minors,  and  could  not,  therefore, 
be  arrested  for  debt.  On  the  other  hand,  they  were 
considered  morally  responsible ;  for  any  offences 
against  the  law  they,  like  other  criminals,  might  be 
punished  ;  and  the  missionary,  acting  as  Government 
Commissioner,  saw  that  the  laws  were  enforced. 
At  the  special  request  of  the  converts,  the  British 
Government  once  more  forbade  the  sale  of  spirits 
to  Indians  (1836)  ;  and  further,  at  the  Brethren's 
request,  the  annual  government  grant  was  made, 
not  as  formerly,  in  money,  but  in  agricultural 
implements.  Thus  were  the  Indians  at  New  Fairfield 
shielded  from  temptation.  For  a  while  these 
measures  proved  successfid.  Most  of  the  Indians 
were  now  total  abstainers  ;  some  of  them  became 
prosperous  farmers  ;  and  the  missionary  could  often 
hear  them  singmg  hymns  in  the  cornfields. 

Meanwhile,  however,  beneath  the  surface,  a  deadly 
force  was  at  work.  In  the  eighteenth  century 
Spangenberg  had  complained  that  the  Indian, 
by  nature,  was  as  fickle  as  an  April  day ;  now 
his  successors  had  the  same  experience ;  and 
the  sad  fact  has  to  be  recorded  that,  during 
the  latter  half  of  the  nineteenth  century,  the 
Indians  at  New  Fairfield  steadily  degenerated  in 
character.  According  to  one  Moravian  minister, 
there  was  a  fundamental  difference  between  the 
Negro  and  the  Indian.  The  former  was  like  a  child 
with  a  hopeful  future  ;  the  latter  was  like  an  old 
man  with  a  softening  brain.  In  all  probability,  the 
cause  of  the  trouble  was  drink  ;  drink  had  ruined  the 
Delawares    for    generations ;     drink    had    enfeebled 


248        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

both  the  mind  and  the  body  ;  and  now,  it  appears, 
the  sins  of  the  father  were  being  visited  upon  the 
children.  At  all  events,  whatever  the  cause,  the 
Indians  became  both  ungrateful  and  disobedient. 
1837  Some  emigrated,  and  founded  Westfield,  in  Kansas  ; 
some,  though  members  of  a  Temperance  Society, 
drank  in  secret ;  some  denounced  the  missionary 
as  a  tyrant,  and  claimed  that  the  land  they  rented 
was  their  own ;  and  some,  disgusted  with  the 
Moravians'  stern  system  of  discipline,  deserted  to 
the  Methodists.  In  vain  one  missionary,  Adolphus 
Hartmann,  opened  an  Orphan  Home  ;  the  children's 
relatives  compelled  him  to  close  it.  The  last  straw 
was  sectarian  controversy.  By  the  close  of  the 
nineteenth  century  three  churches — Anglican, 
Methodist,  and  Moravian — competed  with  each 
other  at  New  Fairfield ;  the  Indians,  always 
fond  of  discussion,  now  made  invidious 
comparisons ;  and  the  Brethren  ended  the 
dispute  by  handing  over  their  converts  to  the 
Methodists. 

8.  Georgia.  For  the  absolute  failure  of  the 
Mission  in  Georgia  the  chief  blame  rests  on  the 
Georgia  Government.  For  a  few  years  the  Mission 
flourished  ;  both  at  Springplace  and  at  Oochgelmy 
boarding-schools  for  Indian  boys  were  opened  ; 
and  then,  in  1831,  the  Government,  without  the 
slightest  provocation,  not  only  expelled  the  Moravian 
missionaries  from  Springplace,  but  also  robbed  the 
Cherokees  of  their  land,  instituted  a  State  lottery, 
and  handed  over  the  land  to  fortunate  winners. 
For  a  dozen  years  the  Cherokees  wandered  from 
State  to  State,  seeking  rest  and  finding  none ; 
and  then,  at  last,  they  found  a  new  home  (1848) 
in  Indian  territory.  There  the  Brethren  endeavoured 
to  revive  the  cause  ;  and  two  new  stations.  New 
Springplace  and  Woodmount,  were  founded  (1878). 


L 


The  North  American  Indians.  249 

For  the  following  reasons,  however,  this  last  enter- 
prise ended  in  failure  : — 

(a)  The  System  of  Land  Tenure.  The  American 
system  of  land  tenure  was  far  inferior  to  the  British. 
In  Canada  the  land  was  leased  direct  to  individuals 
or  families  ;  in  Indian  Territory  it  was  leased  to  whole 
tribes  ;  and  the  individual,  being  only  a  sub-tenant, 
had  no  real  security  of  tenure.  At  any  moment, 
some  rival,  by  offering  a  higher  rent,  or  by  means 
of  some  backstairs  influence,  might  dispossess  him 
of  his  property.  For  this  reason  the  Cherokee  farmer 
could  take  little  interest  in  his  farm  ;  frequently 
he  sublet  it  to  a  white  ;  and  thus,  while  in  theory  he 
was  a  farmer,  in  reality  he  became  an  idle  vagabond. 

(6)  The  Cherokee  Language.  Among  the  Cherokees 
Zeisberger's  books  were  useless.  No  one  had  written 
a  Cherokee  Dictionary  or  Grammar  ;  the  Cherokee 
language  was  exceptionally  difficult ;  and  no 
missionary  could  learn  it  unless  he  began  in  his  child- 
hood. On  Sundays,  therefore,  the  scene  at  Church  was 
chaotic.  The  missionary  spoke  in  English ;  a  Cherokee 
interpreted  ;    and  often  the  interpreter  was  drunk. 

(c)  Tobacco  and  Whisky.  With  a  few  exceptions 
the  Cherokees  smoked  to  excess ;  even  at  Church  both 
men  and  women  sat  chewing  tobacco ;  and  the  women 
were  sometimes  lighting  their  pipes  as  the  minister 
entered.  The  drink  evil  was  stUl  more  deadly.  In 
theory,  as  at  New  Fairfield,  the  sale  of  spirits  to  Indians 
was  forbidden  ;   in  fact,  the  Indians  drank  in  secret. 

For  all  these  reasons,  therefore,  the  Brethren 
found  it  impossible  to  gather  a  settled  congregation. 
In  1895  both  stations  were  taken  over  by  the 
Bethlehem  Home  Missionary  Society  ;  thereby  they 
became  incorporated  with  the  North  American 
Province  of  the  Moravian  Church  ;  and  a  few  faithful 
Cherokees  still  attended  the  services. 


Chapter  V. 

SURINAM,  1800—1914. 

During  the  last  forty  or  fifty  years  the  Dutch  Colony 
of  Surinam  has  been  by  far  tlie  strongest  province 
in  the  whole  Moravian  Mission  Field  ;  more  than  half 
the  Christians  in  the  country  belong  to  the  Moravian 
Church  ;  and  so  efficiently  has  the  work  been 
organized,  and  so  deep  has  been  the  missionaries' 
influence  over  the  lives  of  the  natives,  that 
Paramaribo,  the  capital,  might  be  described  as  the 
most  Christian  city  in  the  world.  In  the  year  1909 
a  religious  census  of  Surinam  was  taken  ;  and, 
not  counting  the  unknown  numbers  of  heathen, 
who  still  swarm  in  the  southern  woods  and  jimgles, 
the  official  result  was  as  follows  : — Moravians, 
27,159  ;  Roman  Catholics,  5,529  ;  Dutch  Reformed 
Church,  505  ;  Anglicans,  SSi  ;  Lutherans,  3,022  : 
Hindus,  12,467  ;  Jews,  1,094  ;  Mahometans,  8,418. 
Let  us  now  examine : — (1)  The  Old  Mission,  or 
Paramaribo  and  its  environs.  (2)  The  new  Mission, 
or  the  Bush  Negroes.  (3)  The  Coolies  and  other 
New-comers.     (4)  The  New  Order. 

1.     The  Old  Mission,  or  Paramaribo  and 
Its  Environs. 

(a)  Business.  The  first  point  to  notice  is 
geographical.  For  over  one  hundred  and  fifty  years — 
I  cannot  say  exactly  how  lono— the  Moravian  Church 
has  held  possession,  at  the  south  end  of  Paramaribo, 
of  a  goodly  little  tract  of  land  known  as  the 
"  Moravian  Compound  "  ;  the  business  part  of  this 
compound  is  called  the  Winkel ;  and  there,  in  1765, 
a  Moravian  firm,  known  still  as  J.  Kersten  &  Co., 
established,  for  the  benefit  of  the  Mission,  such  a 
flourishing  business  concern  that,  until  quite  recently, 

(23n) 


Surinam.  251 

trade  and  religion  went  hand  in  hand.     For  taking 
that  step  the  Church  must  not  be   called   -woildiy. 
In  the  eighteenth  century  no  Mora\'ian  missionary 
received  any  salary  for  his  services.     In  every  case 
his   first  duty   was  to   earn   his   living.     For  many 
years,  therefore,  the  rule  existed  that  every  Surinam 
missionary  must  serve  his  time  in  the  Winkel ;   there 
he  toiled  the  greater  part  of  the  day,  keeping  bocks 
and  serving  customers  ;    and  then,  when  that  little 
flower,  the  "Fo  Joeroe,"  closed  her  petals — i.e.,  at 
about  4  p.m. — he  closed  the  shop,  sipped  liis  coffee, 
set  out  to  \'isit  his  flock,  and  conducted  week-night 
meetings.     In  due  time  this  business  ministered  to 
nearly  all  the  physical  and  mental  needs,  not  only 
of  the  missionaries,  but  also  of  their  converts.     For 
some  years  the  only  articles  sold  were  such  simple 
household    commodities    as    linen,    wool,    buck-skin, 
hats,    combs,    brushes,    slates,   pencils,  and    mouse- 
traps ;    then,   in   due   course,   the   Brethren   opened 
a  bakehouse,  a  carpenter's  shop,  a  smithy,  a  dairy, 
and    a    plant    for    manufacturing    such    articles    as 
ploughs,  locks,  clocks,  pumps,  and  p>etroleum  cookers  ; 
and  finally,  through  their  printing  press,  the  Brethren 
published    Bible    Stories,    New   Testaments,    H\Tnn 
Books,     Text     Books,     Catechisms,     Law     Books, 
Magazines,  and  School  Books  in  thousands.     Thus  did 
the  ^loravian  missionaries,  by  means  of  their  industry, 
solve   the   financial   problem,    find    employment   for 
many    of   their    converts,    improve    the    economical 
status   of  the   colony,    and   raise   the   natives   to    a 
high  state  of  intellectual  efficiency.      In  connexion 
with    this    business    firm,    country    branches    were 
established  ;    by  means  of  these  country  branches 
building  material  was  supplied  for  purposes  of  Church 
extension  ;    and  so  successful  was  the  whole  system 
that,  till  the  year  1876,  the  Surinam  Mission  was 
financially  independent. 


252        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

(6)  Supervision.  But  now  comes  the  most 
wonderful  part  of  the  story.  In  spite  of  their 
strenuous  business  engagements,  the  Moravian 
missionaries  in  Paramaribo  managed  to  keep  in 
personal  touch  with  all  the  members  of  their  flock. 
In  the  city  parishes  they  had  8,000  members  ;  others 
dwelt  in  the  suburbs  of  Rust  en  Vrede  (1882),  Combe 
(1884),  and  Wanica  (1886) ;  and  preaching-places 
were  also  opened  on  very  many  plantations. 
And  yejt  all  the  14,000  members  were  personally 
known  to  the  missionaries.  The  mode  of  supervision 
was  remarkable.  In  the  attic  above  the  central 
church  in  Paramaribo,  which  held  about  2,000,  there 
was  an  office  called  the  "  Great  Room  "  or  "  Bigi- 
KamiraJ"  ;  in  that  office  one  missionary,  acting  as 
General  Registrar,  kept  a  number  of  differently- 
coloured  roll-books ;  in  those  roll-books  all  the 
names  of  all  the  communicants,  all  the  adherents, 
and  all  the  children  were  entered  ;  and  the  simple 
and  ingenious  system  was  that  each  Moravian  in 
Paramaribo  also  possessed  a  ticket  corresponding  in 
colour  to  that  of  the  roll-book  in  which  his  name  was 
entered.  In  the  orange  book,  e.g.,  were  the  names  of 
new-comers ;  in  the  dark  green  the  men  from  A  to  J ; 
and  in  the  grass-green,  the  women  from  A  to  D. 
By  means  of  this  ticket  system,  the  missionaries 
supervised  all  their  members.  Each  Comnmnicant 
showed  his  ticket  before  he  came  to  Communion  ; 
each  candidate  showed  his  ticket  at  the  Baptism 
Class  ;  each  schoolboy  showed  his  ticket  at  the  school 
door  ;  and  the  only  meetings  for  which  no  tickets 
were  required  were  those  set  apart  for  public 
worship.  In  spite,  however,  of  this  system  of 
discipline — or  rather,  perhaps,  on  account  of  it — the 
Moravian  missionaries  in  Paramaribo  were  popular. 
On  Sundays  all  four  churches  were  generally  crowded  ; 
on  special  occasions,  such  as  Easter  and  Christmas, 


Surinam.  258 

one  half  of  the  congregation  Ustened  through  the 
open  windows ;  and  sometimes,  at  the  annual 
Mission  Festivals,  the  proceedings  lasted  tluree  hours. 

(c)  Social  Work.  We  come  here  to  a  curious 
feature  of  the  negro  character.  By  nature  the 
Surinam  Negro  was  a  clubman  rather  than  a  domestic 
man.  Paramaribo  is  a  city  of  clubs.  In  his  club 
the  Negro  was  perfectly  happy  ;  in  his  o^ti  home 
he  was  ill  at  ease;  and  the  Brethren,  recognismg 
the  fact,  and  desiring  to  keep  him  from  the  pubUc- 
house,  estabhshed  a  large  number  of  Christian 
clubs.  For  the  poor  there  was  a  "  Poor's  Society," 
founded  in  1847  by  some  Negro  women  ;  for  all 
concerned  a  Sick  Club,  possessing  its  own  small 
Hospital ;  for  the  employees  of  Kersten  &  Co., 
an  Insurance  Society  ;  for  the  youths  and  maidens, 
Young  Men's  and  Young  Women's  Christian 
Associations;  for  those  so  disposed,  Prayer 
Unions  and  Singing  Clubs  ;  and,  for  the  boys,  a 
Reading  Society,  known  as  "  Timothy."  By  means 
of  these  organizations  the  Brethren  fought  the 
dram-shop,  the  gambling-den,  and  the  picture-house  ; 
most  of  the  clubs  raised  money  for  charitable  and 
religious  purposes ;  and  thus,  in  Paramaribo,  the 
club  became  almost  as  important  as  the  Church. 

(d)  Self-Help.  In  two  ways  the  Brethren 
endeavoured  to  teach  the  people  to  help  them- 
selves. First,  the  firm  of  Kersten  &  Co.  had  a 
special  building  scheme  whereby  each  employee 
might  become  a  freeholder.  In  principle  this 
scheme  was  similar  to  the  Wyndham  Act  in  Ireland. 
The  firm  bought  the  house  for  the  employee  ;  the 
employee  paid  off  the  price  in  instalments  ;  and 
thus,  in  time,  he  had  his  house  free  of  rent.  Secondly, 
with  the  aid  of  the  Government,  the  Brethren 
looked  after  orphans  ;    one  missionary.-  was  known 


254         A  History  of  Mokavian  Missions. 

as  the  Orphan's  Missionary,  and  his  business  was 
to  see  that  each  orph.an  had  a  good  foster-parent. 
For  looking  after  the  ehild  the  foster-parent  received 
8s.  6d.  a  week  ;  part  of  tliis  sum  was  supplied  by 
the  Government ;  and  the  missionary  systematically 
visited  the  house. 

(e)  Education.  On  this  topic  there  was  some 
difference  of  opinion  between  the  Government  and 
the  missionaries.  The  question  in  dispute  was  the 
language  question.  For  reasons  of  a  patriotic  nature 
the  Government  insisted  that  no  school  should  receive 
State-aid  unless  the  teachers  used  and  taught  the 
Dutcli  language;  with  this  condition  the  missionaries, 
wlio  spoke  Negro-English,  could  not  at  first 
( oiriply  ;  and  the  consequence  was  that  though  the 
Brethren  imported,  at  very  great  expense,  a  few 
headmasters  from  Holland,  they  could  never  make 
their  schools  a  success  like  those  in  the  West  Indies. 

(/)  Visitation.  In  order  to  keep  in  close  touch 
with  the  people  the  Paramaribo  missionaries  laid 
great  stress  on  house-to-house  visitation.  Each 
evening,  for  two  or  three  hours,  they  threaded  the 
sandy  streets,  and  heard  strange  talcs  in  little  back 
rooms.  In  one,  they  met  a  crowd  of  young  patriots 
puffing  at  their  cigarettes  and  shouting  "  Surinam 
for  the  Surinamers;"  in  another  a  Cliinaman  was 
lighting  his  opium  pipe  at  a  lamp  ;  in  another  lay 
a  leper  thanking  God  for  His  mercies,  or  a  sinful 
woman  dying  of  consumption,  and  asking  the  Lord 
to  forgive  her  ;  in  another  an  aged  saint  reading  her 
illustrated  book  of  Bible  stories. 

(g)  The  Bethesda  Leper  Home.  For  the  benefit 
of  all  the  lepers  in  Surinam,  some  of  whom  had 
caused  great  offence  by  begging  in  the  streets  of 
Paramaribo,  the  Government  (1897)  built  a  small 
\  illagc     at     Great     CluitiUon ;     one     part     of    this 


Surinam.  255 

village,  named  Bethcsda,  was  placed  mider  the 
care  of  the  Moravians,  who  p^o^^ded,  not  only  the 
chaplain,  but  also  a  staff  of  nurses  ;  and  so  great  was 
the  enthusiasm  roused  by  this  charitable  institution 
that  when  Henry  Weiss,  the  chaplaLn,  went  on  a 
collecting  tour,  he  found  himself  famous.  In 
New  York  (1903)  he  was  presented  to  President 
Roosevelt ;  at  Buffalo  certam  benevolent  ladies 
issued  a  half-yearly  magazine  entitled,  "  Among 
the  Lepers  in  Surinam  "  ;  and  later,  in  Holland,  he 
interviewed  Queen  Wilhelmina,  and  received  from 
Iier  a  harmonium  for  the  hospital,  a  gold  medal  for 
one  of  the  nurses,  and  a  bust  of  herself  for  the  Roman 
Cathohc  patients.  The  institution  was  soon  well 
known  in  the  land.  Some  of  the  patients  became  good 
Christians,  and  sent  gifts  to  the  Leper  Home  in 
Jerusalem  ;  most  of  them  learned  to  make  boots 
or  till  the  garden  ;  and  in  1917  the  good  news  was 
announced  that,  after  trying  the  so-called  "Delord 
Remedy,"  one  leper  had  been  completely   cured. 

By  means,  therefore,  of  all  the  foregoing  methods,  the 
Moravian  Church  gradually  increased  in  favour,  not 
only  with  the  Go\  crnment,  but  also  with  the  planters. 
Formerly  the  planters  had  hated  and  despised 
the  Brethren  ;  now,  towards  the  close  of  the  century, 
they  rendered  financial  assistance.  In  the  year 
1833  only  six  plantations  in  the  country  were  avail- 
able for  missionary  work ;  in  the  year  1836  the 
number  had  increased  to  one  hundred  and  thirty  ; 
and,  thus  encouraged,  the  Brethren  founded,  in  the 
immediate  neighbourhood  of  the  city,  new  stations 
at  Charlottenburg  (1835),  Salem  (1840),  Beekhuizen 
(1843),  Rust  en  Werk  (1844),  Leliendal  (1848), 
Catharina  Sophia  (1855),  Heerendyke  (1856),  Bersaba 
(1858),  Waterloo  (1859),  Clevia  (1859),  Domburg 
(1891),  Nickerie  (1894),  Potribo  (1896),  and  Groot 
Chatillon   (1898). 


356         A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

2.     The  New  Mission,  or  The  Bush  Negroes. 

1840  At  the  special  request  of  the  Dutch  Government, 

the  Brethren  revived  their  work  among  the  Bush 
Negroes.  These  Negroes  lived  near  four  rivers, 
the  Surinam,  the  Saramakka,  the  Koppename, 
and  the  Cotica  ;  and  on  the  banks  of  each  river  the 
Brethren   erected  stations. 

(a)  On  the  Surinam  lived  the  Saramakkers.  In 
this  region  the  climate  was  specially  deadly.  The 
first  missionary,  Rasmus  Schmidt  lasted  only  five 
years  (1840-5) ;  the  first  station,  Gingce,  had  to  be 
closed  ;  and,  though  other  stations  were  afterwards 
built — Gansee  (1847),  Koffykamp  (1854),  Bergendal 
(1869),  and  Aurora  (1891) — the  missionaries  could 
only  pay  flying  visits,  and  had  to  leave  the  work  to 
Native  Helpers.  To  that  rule  there  was  one|^^heroic 
1848''53  exception.  For  five  years  a  missionary's  widow, 
Mrs.  Hartmann,  lived  all  alone  among  these  people, 
sleeping  in  a  native  hut,  travelling  from  village 
to  village,  and  teaching  both  old  and  young  people 
Bible  history  ;  and  so  gracious  was  the  influence 
she  exerted  that  the  Saramakkers  became  noted 
for  good  character. 

(6)  On  the  Saramakka  lived  the  Matuaris.  For 
thirty-seven  years  the  chief  preacher  was  a  native 
evangelist,  John  King  (1862-99)  ;  this  man  became 
famous  in  the  land,  partly  for  his  dreams  and  visions, 
and  partly  for  his  insight  into  character  ;  and  the 
missionaries  themselves  declared  that  he  was 
inspired.  With  his  assistance  the  Brethren  founded 
two  stations,  Maripastoon  (1862)  and  Kwattahede 
(1881) ;  he  himself  visited  many  villages,  and 
persuaded  hundreds  to  hand  over  their  idols  ;  and 
his  own  converts  elected  him  their  Grandman. 

(c)  On  the  Koppename  lived  the  Koffimakas. 
By  tearing  a  heathen  banner  to  shreds,  one  missionary 


Surinam.  257 

managed  to  convert  the  chief;  the  people  speedily 
followed  the  chief's  example  ;  and  two  stations — 
Copenkrisi  (1889)  and  Kaimanston  (1896)  were 
founded. 

(d)  On  the  Cotica  lived  the  Aukas.  Among  these 
people  the  Brethren  had  little  success.  The  chief, 
Ossessi,  adopted  a  curious  attitude.  For  some 
reasons  best  known  to  himself,  he  declared  that  while 
he  would  worship  the  one  true  God,  and  teach  his 
people  good  morals,  yet  he  would  not  have  the 
Christian  religion ;  with  him,  of  course,  all  the 
Wintimen  agreed  ;  and  therefore,  though  the  Brethren 
founded  two  stations — Wanhatti  (1892)  and  Albina 
(1894) — they  had  to  be  content,  for  the  most  part, 
with  occasional  evangelistic  visits. 

With  regard  to  the  Bush  Negro  Mission  as  a  whole, 
one  general  remark  must  here  be  made.  In 
Paramaribo  and  its  \icinity  most  of  the  Negroes 
are  Christians  ;  along  the  four  rivers  most  of  them 
are  still  heathen  ;  and  one  reason  for  their  obstinacy 
is  that  they  are  still,  for  pohtical  reasons,  suspicious 
of  whites. 

3.     The  New-Comers. 

During  the  last  thirty  years  the  Moravian  Church 
has  also  endeavoured  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  the 
vast  crowd  of  Coolies,  Chinese,  and  Javanese  imported 
by  the  Dutch  Government. 

(a)  The  Coolies.  In  1870  Great  Britain  and 
Holland  made  a  treaty,  one  clause  in  which  was 
that  Coohes  from  India,  on  certain  conditions, 
might  be  shipped  to  Surinam  ;  and  so  well  were  the 
first  immigrants  treated  by  the  Dutch  Government, 
that  the  number  speedily  rose  to  20,000.  In  religion 
these  Coolies  were  mostly  Hindus ;  but  their  Hinduism 
was  of  a  peculiar  type.  In  spite  of  their  professed 
faith  in  Hinduism  they  really  believed  in  many  gods, 


258        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

the  great  god,  Ram,  being  specially  popular;  most 
of  these  gods  were  represented  by  images  ;  and  some 
Coolies  are  said  to  have  asserted  that  hovering 
round  them  in  the  air  there  were  thirty  million 
gods  and  fifty  million  goddesses.  For  twenty  years, 
not  knowing  Hindustani,  the  Moravians  could  do  little 
for  these  people.  The  first  good  opening  came  in  a 
curious  way.  In  1894  a  Coolie  Christian,  Samuel 
Balgobin,  offered  his  services  as  evangelist,  and 
was  accepted ;  in  1895  came  a  second,  Nicholas 
Faden  ;  in  1897  came  a  third,  Abraham  Lincoln  ; 
and  so  encouraging  were  these  men's  reports,  that 
finally,  in  1905,  two  ordained  Moravian  missionaries 
were  appointed.  Each  of  these  missionaries  under- 
stood Hindustani ;  in  1909  a  Church  for  Coolies  was 
built  in  Paramaribo  ;  and  some  attempt  was  made  to 
teach  Coolie  children.  For  at  least  four  reasons, 
however,  Moravian  work  among  the  Coolies  has  not 
been  a  great  success  : — (1)  The  Coolie  Brahmins  are 
fiercely  opposed  to  the  Mission,  and  inform  their 
flock  that  the  greatest  crime  a  Coolie  can  commit  is  to 
become  a  Christian.  (2)  The  Coolies  are  reserved 
and  suspicious,  and  do  not  give  the  missionaries 
their  confidence.  (3)  In  spite  of  their  high  wages, 
the  Coolies  are  not  quite  contented  with  their  position 
in  the  colony,  and,  like  many  artisans,  are  more 
interested  in  politics  than  in  religion.  (4)  Many 
Coolies  conscientiously  believe  that.  Ram  and  Jesus 
being  two  different  names  for  the  same  person, 
Hinduism  and  Christianity  are  simply  two^different 
forms  of  the  same  religion. 

(6)  The  Chinese.  With  the  Chinese  labourers  the 
missionaries  were  more  successful.  In  two  ways  the 
Chinese  differed  from  the  Coolies.  On  the  one  hand, 
they  were  more  addicted  to  gambling  ;  on  the  other 
hand  they  were  more  serious  and  thoughtful ;  and 
those  who  did  accept  the  Christian  religion — especially 


Surinam.  259 

certain  business  men  in  the  city — became  most  useful 
members  of  Church  Committees. 

(c)  The  Javanese.  With  the  Javanese,  who  were 
mostly  Mahometans,  the  great  difficulty  seems  to 
have  been  that,  being  entirely  satisfied  with  them- 
selves, they  saw  no  need  for  instruction.  In  the 
beginning,  they  said,  God  made  the  first  men  out 
of  baked  clay.  The  first  set  were  burnt  and  became 
Negroes  ;  the  second  were  half-baked  and  became 
whites  ;  and  the  third,  who  were  done  to  a  turn, 
were  the  Javanese.  The  first  preacher  to  these 
people  was  a  Dutchman,  Bielke.  In  order  to  render  1909 
himself  thoroughly  efficient,  Bielke  not  only  studied 
with  a  retired  Java  missionary,  but  also  spent  a  short 
time  in  Java;  then  he  settled  down  at  Leliendal  on 
the  Commewijne  River  ;  and  making  good  use  of  his 
tricycle,  he  visited  the  Javanese  labourers  on  the 
surrounding  plantations. 

But  he  did  not  form  a  high  opinion  of  their 
character.  Most  of  the  men  were  gamblers  and 
opium  smokers ;  theft  was  remarkably  common ; 
and  the  people,  with  a  few  exceptions,  refused  to 
listen  to  his  preaching. 

4.  The  New  Order,  1900 — 1914. 
And  now  came  the  great  transformation.  As  long  as  1900 
the  missionaries  did  so  much  for  the  people — raising 
money  in  the  Kersten  factory,  preaching  the  Gospel, 
managing  clubs,  teaching  in  day-schools,  nursing 
lepers,  providing  for  orphans,  and  visiting  the  pesti- 
lential Bush  Negro  stations — there  was  always  the 
very  serious  danger  that  the  people  could  never  learn 
to  help  themselves  ;  this  danger  was  fully  discussed  at 
a  General  Synod  (1899)  ;  and,  next  year,  acting  on 
certain  Synodal  resolutions,  the  missionaries  in 
Surinam — so  far  as  the  "  Old  Mission  "f  was  con- 


fThe  term  "  Old  Miasion,"  refers  to  Paramaribo  «aid  its  enviroiu. 


260        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

cerned — made  several  important  changes  in  the  whole 
system  of  management.  In  the  past  the  leading 
principle  had  been  centralisation  ;  henceforward 
it  was  local  self-government.  In  the  past  the 
missionaries  had  been  kind-hearted  autocrats  ;  hence- 
forth, to  some  extent,  the  people  were  to  learn  to 
rule  themselves.  In  the  past  the  missionaries  had 
not  only  done  nearly  all  the  work,  but  raised  nearly 
all  the  money ;  henceforward  the  people  shared 
both  in  the  work  and  in  the  financial  burden. 

{a)  The  first  step  was  to  separate  business  and 
preaching.  In  the  past  all  missionaries  had  been 
compelled  to  serve  their  time  with  Kersten  &  Co.  ; 
in  1900  this  practice  ceased  ;  and  henceforward  the 
business  was  managed,  not  by  a  conference  of 
missionaries,  but  by  a  special  business  committee. 
On  the  natives  this  change  had  a  great  effect. 
Formerly,  by  serving  in  the  shop,  the  missionary  had 
earned  his  own  living  ;  now,  of  course,  he  required 
a  ministerial  salary  ;  and  thus  the  people  were  taught 
to  realise  that,  if  they  would  have  efficient  ministers, 
they  must  contribute  something  towards  their 
support. 

(b)  The  next  step  was  the  abolition  of  common 
house-keeping.  In  the  past  the  Paramaribo 
missionaries  had  all  breakfasted,  dined  and  supped  in 
one  room ;  henceforward  each,  having  his  own  private 
salary,  managed  entirely  his  own  domestic  affairs  ; 
and  Bishop  VouUaire,  the  head  of  the  Mission, 
regarded  this  change  as  highly  important.  In  the 
past  all  the  Paramaribo  missionaries  had  met  in 
daily  conference  ;  now  each  was  more  exclusively 
concerned  with  his  own  congregation ;  and  thus 
another  step  was  taken  towards  local  congregational 
self-management. 

(c)  In  1899,  for  the  first  time,  a  native  was  fully 


Surinam.  261 

ordained ;  soon  after  a  Theological  College  was 
founded  ;  and  by  the  year  1912  Surinam  had  eight 
native  ministers. 

(d)  The  "  Great  Room  "  above  the  Central  Church 
was  abohshed.  Paramaribo  was  now  di\'ided  into 
districts  ;  each  district  elected  its  own  committee 
and  kept  its  own  register  books  ;  and  each  committee 
now  undertook  certain  definite  financial  obligations. 

(e)  The  last  move  was  still  more  radical.  In 
1910  the  General  Mission  Conference  was  abohshed ;  a 
new  body,  called  the  Church  Conference,  was  formed  ; 
and  the  difference  between  these  two  bodies  was  that, 
while  the  former  consisted  of  missionaries  only,  the 
latter  included,  not  only  ex-officio  members,  t.c, 
missionaries,  the  Principal  of  the  Theological 
College,  and  School  Inspectors,  but  also  native 
delegates  elected  by  the  congregations.  Thus  did 
the  native  Christians  of  Surinam  take  the  first  steps 
towards  the  formation  of  a  Native  Church. 


Additional  Note. 

THE   SURINAM  MARRIAGE   PROBLEM, 

1880—1893. 

For  thirteen  years  Surinam  was  the  scene  of  a 
keen,  painful,  and  even  dangerous  controversy  on 
the  question  whether,  in  matters  matrimonial,  the 
converts  should  be  expected  and  compelled  to 
conform,  in  spite  of  difficulties,  to  the  normal 
Christian  ideal,  or  whether  they  should  be  permitted 
to  retain  certain  national  marriage  customs  ;  both 
among  the  missionaries  and  the  converts  the  greatest 
excitement  prevailed  ;  and  the  interesting  feature 
of  the  story  is  that  two  prominent  missionaries — 
H.  B.  Heyde  and  J.  Haller — acting  from  the  best 
motives,  espoused  the  Negro  cause.     For  this  conduct 


262        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

each  of  these  missionaries  paid  a  severe  penalty. 
Heyde  was  dismissed  from  the  service,  and  set  up 
in  business  as  a  printer  ;  and  Haller,  broken  down 
by  the  strain,  died  in  the  prime  of  hfe.  To  the 
careful  student  of  Foreign  Mission  history,  the  story 
has  great  value.  It  shows  with  what  difficult  and 
complex  problems  the  foreign  missionary  has  some- 
times to  deal.  For  this  reason,  therefore,  I  here 
give  the  main  facts. 

1.    The  Cause  of  the  Trouble. 

The  true,  original  cause  of  the  trouble  was  the 
institution  of  slavery.  For  the  long  period  of  one 
1737-1863  hundred  and  twenty-six  years  nearly  all  the  Moravian 
converts  in  Surinam  were  slaves  ;  by  the  law  of  the 
land  in  Surinam  slaves  were  not  allowed  to  marry  ; 
and,  therefore,  even  Christian  couples  had,  of 
necessity,  to  make  their  own  arrangements.  Among 
these  Christian  Negroes  two  customs  existed.  One 
was  a  spoken  contract,  called  the  Verbond,  made  by 
the  contracting  parties  in  the  presence  of  the 
missionary.  For  all  practical  purposes  this 
Verbond  was  as  good  as  a  legal  marriage.  In 
the  eyes  of  the  law  it  was  not  a  marriage  ;  in  the 
judgment  of  the  missionaries  it  was  ;  and  all  couples 
thus  united  were  admitted  without  question  to  the 
Holy  Communion.  The  other  custom  was  merely 
a  private  contract ;  and  this  also  was  recognised  by 
the  missionaries.  The  Verbond  was  binding  for 
life ;  the  other  contract  might  be  dissolved  by 
mutual  consent  or  because  husbands  and  wives 
were  sold  to  different  masters.  As  long,  however,  as 
such  couples  remained  faithful  to  each  other,  they 
also  were  admitted  to  the  Holy  Communion. 

But  now  arose  a  great  change  in  the  situation. 
In  1849  all  slaves  owned  by  the  Moravian  Church 
obtained  their  hberty  ;    in  1863  slavery  in  Surinam 


Surinam.  268 

was  abolished  entirely  ;  and  henceforth,  being  free 
citizens  of  the  colony,  the  Negroes  had  as  much  right 
to  marry  as  the  whites.  Why,  then,  it  may  be  asked, 
were  Christian  Negroes  not  fo^th^^^th  compelled  to 
abandon  their  old  customs  and  marry  according  to 
the  laws  of  the  land  ?  But  the  answer  was  not  so 
simple  as  might  be  expected ;  and  much  could 
easily  be  said  on  both  sides.  To  that  question,  in 
fact,  three  different  answers  were  given.  Let  us 
note  carefully  the  attitude  adopted  by  each  of  the 
three  contending  parties. 

2.     Three  Different  Attitudes. 

(1)  The  Attitude  of  the  Moravian  Mission  Board. 
Without  the  slightest  hesitation,  the  Moravian 
Mission  Board  held  that  the  law  of  the  land  must 
be  enforced.  If  a  Negro,  they  said,  desires  to  marry 
legally,  he  can  now  do  so ;  no  excuse,  either  for  the 
Verbond  or  for  the  private  contract,  exists  any 
longer  ;  and  all  couples  who  refuse  to  obey  must  be 
expelled  from  the  Church.  With  this  ruling  the 
Surinam  missionaries  agreed  ;  and  during  the  years 
1863-1879,  no  fewer  than  5,000  refractory  Church 
members  were  excommunicated. 

(2)  The  Negroes'  Attitude.  For  the  following 
strong  reasons,  the  Negroes,  many  of  whom  were 
excellent  Christians,  were  conscientiously  opposed 
to  legal  marriage  : — 

{a)  The  marriage-fee,  one  guinea,  was  more  than 
most  of  them  could  afford. 

(6)  Most  of  the  white  couples  in  Surinam  were 
still  not  legally  married  ;  nevertheless,  they 
were  freely  admitted  to  the  Holy  Com- 
munion both  in  the  Protestant  and  in  the 
CathoUc  Churches  ;  and,  if  this  was  right 
for  whites,  it  must  also  be  equally  right  for 
Negroes. 


264        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

(c)  Among  the  whites,  so  far  as  the  Negroes  could 
observe,  legal  marriage  did  not,  as  a  rule, 
conduce  to  domestic  happiness  ;  the  happiest 
couples  were  the  unmarried  couples,  and 
that,  they  honestly  testified,  was  equally 
true  among  the  Negroes.  "As  soon  as  a 
man  gets  married,"  they  said,  "  the  devil 
enters  his  house." 

With  these  arguments  Bernard  Heyde  agreed. 
At  a  public  meeting  in  Paramaribo  (August  7th,  1879) 
Heyde  contended  that  no  missionary  had  any  right 
to  exclude  a  Negro  from  the  Holy  Communion 
for  refusing  to  be  legally  married.  In  vain  the 
Mission  Board  ordered  him  to  recant ;  and  in  vain 
his  Surinam  colleagues  forbade  him  to  agitate  in 
public.  Heyde  regarded  himself  as  inspired;  for  his 
obstinacy  he  was  duly  dismissed  ;  and  the  Negroes, 
in  their  anger,  nearly  tore  the  other  missionaries  to 
pieces. 

(3)  The  Missionaries^  Later  Attitude.  For  the 
sake  of  peace,  most  of  the  Moravian  missionaries, 
during  the  next  period  (1880-93)  favoured  some  kind 
of  compromise  ;  so  keen  was  the  situation  that  two 
members  of  the  Mission  Board — Eugene  Reichel  and 
Th.  van.  Calker — visited  Surinam ;  and  finally, 
after  much  heart-searching,  the  Mission  Board  agreed 
to  the  following  concessions  : — 

(a)     Unmarried  couples  might  be  baptized. 

(6)  Unmarried  couples,  while  not  admitted  to 
the  Holy  Communion,  need  not  have  their 
names  struck  off  the  Church  lists. 

(c)  If  one  of  the  contracting  parties  was  willing 
to  obey  the  law,  but  was  prevented  from 
so  doing  by  the  opposition  of  his  or  her 
partner,  that  one  should  be  admitted  to  the 
Communion.     With   this   attempt   at   com- 


I 


Surinam. 


265 


promise,  however,  John  Haller  disagreed  ; 
he  himself  refused  to  suspend  defaulters ;  and 
the  Mission  Board  at  last  agreed  that  even 
unmarried  couples  might  attend  the  Com- 
munion. Nevertheless,  said  the  Mission 
Board,  the  Surinam  missionaries  must 
rectify  matters  some  day. 

3.     Final  Solution. 

At  the  request  of  the  Mission  Board,  the  Govern- 
ment reduced  the  marriage-fee  ;  now  the  Negroes 
had  no  longer  their  chief  excuse  ;  and  henceforth 
legal  marriage  was  enforced  in  all  cases. 


1893 


Chapter  VI. 

SOUTH  AFRICA,  WEST:  or  THE  HOTTENTOTS, 

1792—1914. 

1.     The  Three  Musicians,  1792—1806. 

As  long  as  South  Africa  remained  in  the  hands 
of  the  Dutch,  with  their  rigid  Calvinistic  notions,  and 
their  theory  that  only  State  Churches  had  any 
right  to  exist,  there  seemed  little  chance  that  George 
Schmidt  would  have  a  successor ;  and  yet  it  was 
really  a  famous  Dutch  preacher  who  changed  the 
whole  situation.  His  name  was  Hesperous  Ritzman 
Van  Lier.  For  about  three  years  this  man 
was  the  chief  topic  of  conversation  in  Cape 
Town.  In  defiance  of  orthodox  popular  opinion, 
according  to  which  the  Boers  were  God's  chosen 
people,  while  the  Hottentots  were  predestined 
to  damnation,  Van  Lier  boldly  maintained  that 
the  Gospel  should  be  preached  to  every  creature. 
In  the  year  1789  he  preached  a  sensational  missionary 
sermon  ;  and  one  result  of  the  sermon  was  that  Mrs. 
Smith,  in  Cape  Town  itself,  opened  a  Sunday  School 
for  slaves.  But  this  was  not  the  end  of  the  preacher's 
influence.  At  the  very  time  when  Van  Lier  was 
at  the  height  of  his  glory,  Bishop  John  Frederick 
Reichel,  who  was  on  his  way  home  from  Tranquebar, 
called  at  Cape  Town.  And  now,  taking  the  tide  at 
the  flood,  Bishop  Reichel  discussed  the  problem 
with  Van  Lier,  addressed  well-wishers  at  drawing- 
room  meetings  in  Cape  Town,  and  then,  on  his  return 
1789  to  Herrnhut,  proposed  at  a  General  Synod  that, 
if  possible,  the  Mission  to  South  Africa  should  be 
resumed.  The  authorities  appealed  to  the  Chamber 
of  Seventeen.  Meanwhile,  in  Holland,  the  change 
of  opinion  was  almost  as  great  as  in  Cape  Town. 

(266) 


South  Africa  West  :  or  the  Hottentots.  267 

In  former  years  the  Moravians  in  Holland  had  been 
regarded  as  heretics  ;  now  large  numbers  of  Dutch 
Christians  had  read  Spangenberg's  "Idea  Fidei 
Fratrum " ;  and  the  consequence  was  that,  on 
certain  conditions,  the  Seventeen  gave  their  per- 
mission. First,  they  said,  they  must  know  the  names 
of  the  men  ;  secondly,  these  men  must  not  preach 
where  other  churches  existed  already  ;  and  thirdly, 
they  must  not  be  replaced  without  the  Chamber's 
permission.  To  these  conditions  the  Moravian 
authorities  agreed ;  three  musical  Brethren  were 
selected  ;  and  in  due  course  the  three  arrived  at 
Cape  Town.  The  eldest,  Henry  Marsveld,  was  a 
singer ;  the  second,  Daniel  Schwinn,  played  the 
flute ;  and  the  third,  John  Kiihnel,  played  the 
violin. 

The  situation  in  South  Africa  was  still  uncertain.      1792 
At  the  time  when  the  three  musicians  arrived  on  the 
scene  there  was  still  much  difference  of  opinion  on 
the  question  of  Christian  work  among  the  Hottentots. 
In  official  circles  the  feeling  was  friendly  ;    among 
the  Boers  themselves  it  was  mostly  hostile  ;    and 
thus,    at   the   outset,   the   Brethren   met   both  with 
favour  and  with  opposition.     For  the  first  two  or 
three   years   they   were    almost   entirely   dependent 
on  the  goodwill  of  a  certain  Major  Teunessen,  the 
commandant    in   the    Sweet    Milk   Valley.     As    this 
man   had   been  taught  by  George  Schmidt,  he  had 
a  certain  amount  of  sympathy  with  missionary  work  ; 
and  now,  from  natural  motives  of  gratitude,  he  acted 
as  the  Brethren's  guide  and  patron.    With  the  special 
permission    of    Rhenius,    the    Governor,    Teunessen 
drove  the  Brethren  to  the  Valley  ;   there,  during  the 
Christmas  season,  he  entertained  them  royally  in  his 
own  house  ;    and  then,  on  December  24th,  he  drove 
them  to  the  historic  Glen  of  Baboons.     For  three 
hours    the    Brethren    examined    the    sacred    scene. 


268        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

There,  in  full  vigour,  stood  George  Schmidt's  pear- 
tree,  heavily  laden  with  fruit ;  there,  too,  a  Hottentot 
informed  them,  stood  part  of  his  house  ;  and  dotted 
around,  lay  the  ruins  of  cottages  built  by  him  and 
his  converts.  But  the  strangest  Hnk  with  the  past 
was  still  to  come.  At  Sergeant's  River,  two  miles 
further  on,  there  still  lived,  said  the  Hottentots,  an  old 
woman  named  Helena,  who  had  been  baptized  by 
Schmidt;  she  was  now  over  eighty  years  old,  and 
nearly  blind ;  and  yet,  they  said,  she  could  still 
remember  the  hour  when  Schmidt  arrived.  The 
Major  drove  the  three  Brethren  to  the  spot.  As 
soon  as  they  arrived  on  the  scene,  the  Hottentots 
gathered  round  and  did  obeisance ;  old  Helena, 
too  weak  to  walk  alone,  was  led  out  of  her  hut ; 
and,  seated  on  the  ground  in  the  open  air,  she 
answered  the  Brethren's  questions. 

"Is  it  true,"  asked  Mars  veld,  "  that  George 
Schmidt  baptized  you  ?  " 

"  Yes,  masters,  it  is  true." 

"  And  what  name  did  he  give  you  ?  " 

"  Helena." 

"  And  do  you  remember  anything  George  Schmidt 
taught  you  ?  " 

For  some  moments  Helena  tasked  her  memory 
in  vain,  then  Mars  veld,  to  give  a  hint,  mentioned 
the  name  of  Jesus,  and  old  Helena  smiled  and 
answered:  "Jesus!  Jesus!  Oh,  yes!  I  remember 
that." 

"  And  we  are  George  Schmidt's  Brethren,"  said 
Marsveld,  "  and  have  come  like  him  to  tell  you  how 
to  be  saved." 

At  this,  Helena,  folding  her  hands,  exclaimed : 
"  Thank  God  !  thank  God  !  "  For  a  few 
moments  she  sat  pondering,  and  then  she  informed 
the  Brethren  that  in  her  hut  she  had  a  book 
which  George  Schmidt  had  given  her.     Forthwith  a 


South  Africa  West  :   or  the  Hottentots.  269 

Hottentot  ran  to  her  hut,  and  returned  with  a 
sheepskin  parcel.  Inside  the  sheepskin  lay  a  leather 
bag  ;  inside  the  leathei*  bag  a  Dutch  New  Testament ; 
and  that  New  Testament,  carefully  preserved  in  a  box 
made  of  wood  from  the  pear-tree,  is  now  shewn  to  the 
visitor  at  Genadendal.  On  the  Brethren  the  whole 
scene  made  a  profound  impression.  In  reply  to 
further  questions,  Helena  explained  that,  while 
unable  to  read  herself,  she  still  loved  to  hear  the 
Bible  read  to  her.  The  reader  was  a  Hottentot 
young  woman  ;  this  young  woman  now  appeared 
and  read  the  second  chapter  of  St.  Matthew  ;  and 
the  three  Brethren,  touched  to  the  quick,  resolved 
to  revive  the  cause  at  Bavianskloof. 

As  soon,  then,  as  the  usual  Christmas  and  New  1793 
Year's  festi^^ties  were  over,  the  three  musicians, 
aided  by  friendly  Hottentots,  began  to  build  the 
far-famed  settlement  of  Genadendal. f  On  January 
4th,  1793,  they  laid  the  foundations  of  the  first 
Mission  House  in  South  Africa.  In  order  to  encourage 
the  Hottentots,  they  promised  that,  as  soon  as  the 
house  was  ready,  a  day-school  would  be  opened ; 
and  the  Hottentots,  fired  by  this  prospect,  worked 
without  any  pay.  For  eight  weeks  Bavianskloof 
was  the  home  of  enthusiastic  industry.  The 
Hottentots  doffed  their  caroches  and  toiled  in  the  sun ; 
the  women  sat  smoking  strong  tobacco  and  watching 
their  husbands ;  and  the  babies,  sitting  huck-a- 
back,  grinned  over  their  mothers'  shoulders.  As 
soon  as  the  first  house  was  ready,  the  Brethren 
proceeded  to  turn  the  Glen  into  a  garden.  The 
Hottentots,  zealous  as  ever,  guided  the  plough ; 
the  women  carried  off  refuse  in  their  caroches  ; 
and  the  Brethren,  after  clearing  the  brushwood, 
planted  vegetables.  Meanwhile,  however,  the  usual 
foes  were  at  work.     In  the  dead  of  night  baboons 

tPronounced  Gnadendal,  the  a  as  in  father. 


270        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

purloined  the  pears;  caterpillars,  beetles  and  moles 
destroyed  both  cabbages  and  fruit ;  and  one 
night  a  furious  gale  removed  the  roof  of  their  house. 
But  the  greatest  trouble  was  the  lack  of  milk  and 
butter.  For  some  reason  which  I  am  unable  to 
define,  all  the  cows  in  that  district  refused  to  be 
milked  until  their  calves  had  been  weaned,  and  the 
Brethren  solved  the  problem  by  importing  a  herd 
of  goats.  The  next  trouble  sprang  from  Cape  Town. 
For  several  years  the  Brethren  were  constantly 
afflicted  by  gangs  of  sightseers.  In  those  days  there 
were  no  country  hotels  ;  the  law  of  hospitality  was 
binding  ;  and  the  Brethren  had  to  entertain  visitors 
far  better  off  than  themselves.  Each  visitor,  of 
course,  expected  his  cake  and  wine ;  each,  if  he 
stayed  the  night,  occupied  the  best  bedroom  ;  and 
most  of  them  returned  to  Cape  Town  without  sub- 
scribing to  the  funds. 

In  spite,  however,  of  these  afflictions,  the  cause 
soon  made  good  progress.  As  soon  as  the  first 
house  was  ready,  the  promised  day-school  was  opened ; 
and  the  Brethren  discovered,  to  their  delight,  that 
all  the  Hottentots  were  eager  to  learn.  Some  came 
from  kraals  a  hundred  and  fifty  miles  distant ;  the 
school-room,  i.e.,  the  Brethren's  parlour,  held  200 
scholars  ;  and  young  and  old  alike  could  be  seen 
conning  their  books  in  the  cornfields.  In  vain  the 
Boers  warned  these  seekers  after  truth  that  the 
Brethren  had  a  chest  of  bamboo-canes.  "  Never 
mind,"  retorted  the  students.  "  As  long  as  we  can 
get  the  learning  we  do  not  mind  the  stick."  Still 
better,  there  was  soon  a  marked  improvement  in 
morals.  Some  of  the  Hottentots  were  lazy, 
drunken,  and  immoral ;  now,  in  their  desire  for 
learning,  they  submitted  to  discipline ;  and  the 
punishment  which  they  dreaded  most  was  expulsion 
from   the   day-school.     The  most  striking  case  was 


South  Africa  West  :  or  the  Hottentots.  271 

that  of  a  married  man.  For  the  sin  of  hitting  his 
wife  on  the  head  he  was  exposed  before  the  whole 
school. 

"  Why  did  you  beat  your  wife  ?  "  said  the  school- 
master. 

"  Because  she  would  not  mend  my  trousers,'* 
he  answered. 

The  schoolmaster  seized  the  man's  book ;  the 
man  was  expelled  from  the  school ;  and  the 
Hottentots  learned  that  a  scholar  must  be  good, 
not  only  in  the  school-room,  but  also  in  his  own 
home.  With  the  children,  in  fact,  the  Brethren 
were  rather  too  strict.  If  a  boy  or  girl  was  accused 
of  any  serious  sin,  the  Brethren  generally  arranged 
a  public  trial,  at  which  the  other  scholars  were 
encouraged  to  give  e^^dence ;  and  then,  if  the 
verdict  was  "  Guilty,"  the  culprit  was  handed  to 
his  parents  to  be  flogged.  It  is  obvious  that  this 
system  was  a  mistake.  Boys  and  girls  were  taught 
to  spy  on  each  other  ;  the  innocent  gloated  over 
the  trials  of  the  guilty  ;  and  some  of  the  children 
became,  in  consequence,  insufferable  prigs.  Let 
us  not,  however,  be  too  hard  on  the  Brethren.  As 
soon  as  they  discovered  their  mistake  they  modified 
their  methods. 

Meanwhile,  the  spiritual  side  of  the  work  had  not 
been  neglected.  For  some  years  the  Brethren  were 
not  allowed  to  build  a  Church.  In  the  rainy  season 
the  services  were  held  in  the  parlour  ;  in  fine  weather, 
under  George  Schmidt's  pear-tree.  From  the  out- 
set the  Brethren  laid  great  stress  on  music.  Marsveld, 
the  Dutchman,  acted  as  precentor  ;  the  two  others 
played  their  respective  instruments ;  the  children 
had  music  lessons  twice  a  week  ;  and  the  Hottentots 
learned  the  Gospel  message,  not  merely  by  hstening 
to  the  sermons,  but  also,  and  chiefly,  by  singing 
the  high-class  Moravian  chorales.    By  employing  this 


272        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

method,  therefore,  the  Brethren  appealed,  not  to  the 
reasoning  faculties,  but  rather  to  the  emotions  ;  most 
of  their  preaching,  also,  was  of  the  "Blood  and  Wounds 
Theology  "  type  ;  and  yet  the  ethical  results  were 
most  encouraging.  The  more  the  Brethren  described 
the  sufferings  of  Christ,  the  more  the  people  seemed 
convinced  of  sin  ;  one  sinner,  the  Brethren  reported, 
endeavoured  to  ease  his  conscience  by  taking 
medicine ;  and  the  people  often  confessed  their 
transgressions,  not  only  to  God,  but  to  the  Brethren. 
On  July  19th,  1793,  the  first  convert  was  baptized. 
The  candidate  was  a  young  married  woman,  and 
strange  was  the  story  she  had  to  tell.  Her  husband, 
she  said,  had  often  dreamed  that  three  men  would 
come  to  South  Africa  to  resume  George  Schmidt's 
labours  ;  she  herself  was  a  daughter  of  Kybodo, 
one  of  George  Schmidt's  converts  ;  and  thus,  in  her, 
the  Brethren  had  another  link  with  the  past. 

At  this  point,  however,  fresh  troubles  arose. 
The  first  was  due  to  the  great  European  War. 
On  February  1st,  1793,  the  French  Republic 
declared  war  against  both  England  and  Holland  ; 
1793-4  in  April  an  order  was  issued  in  Cape  Town  that  all 
able-bodied  Hottentots  must  enlist  in  the  Dutch 
Army ;  and  so  many  Hottentots  now  left  Bavians- 
kloof  that  not  enough  were  left  to  till  the  soil.  For 
some  months  the  missionaries  were  on  short  commons  ; 
many  Hottentot  women  and  children  actually  died 
of  starvation  ;  and  friends  at  Cape  Town  had  to 
send  provisions.  Next  year,  1794,  Holland  having 
been  conquered  by  France,  England  and  Holland 
were  at  war  ;  the  English  fleet  was  now  in  Table 
Bay  ;  and  once  again  the  Hottentots  were  summoned 
to  fight  for  their  native  land. 

We  have  next  the  famous  "  Story  of  the  Bell." 
As  the  Brethren  wished  to  teach  the  Hottentots 
punctuality,  they  used  a  large  bell  to  summon  them 


\ 


South  Africa  West  :   or  the  Hottentots.  278 

to  work;  and  Kiilmel,  in  his  diary,  says  that  a  Dutch 
clergyman  named  Borcherd,  residing  at  Stellenbosch, 
interviewed  certain  Government  officials  at  Cape 
Town,  complained  that  the  bell  distm-bed  his 
slumbers,  and  demanded,  with  success,  that  the  bell 
be  rung  no  more.  For  some  weeks,  so  we  are  told, 
the  story  of  the  bell  created  a  sensation  in  Cape 
Town,  and  pictures  of  the  offending  bell  were  sold  in 
the  stationers'  shops.  But  now  comes  a  question  hard 
to  answer.  In  his  History  of  Christian  Missions  in 
South  Africa,  Dr.  du  Plessis  dismisses  the  whole 
story  as  fiction.  As  Stellenbosch  is  fifty  miles  from 
Bavianskloof,  Borcherd,  he  says,  could  not  hear  the 
bell,  and  no  clergyman  in  his  senses  could  make  such 
an  absurd  complaint ;  and,  further,  we  must  also 
admit  that  the  evidence  for  the  story  will  not  stand 
much  criticism.  Kiihnel  heard  the  story  from 
Baas  Teunessen  ;  Baas  Teunessen,  so  he  said,  had 
heard  it  in  Cape  Town  ;  and  Kiihnel  recorded  it  as  a 
fact  without  making  further  inquiries.  How,  then, 
it  may  be  asked,  could  such  a  story  arise  at  all  ? 
In  all  probability  Borcherd  did  make  a  complaint 
of  some  kind.  At  the  time  there  was  a  rule  in  South 
Africa  that  only  State  Churches  had  the  right  to 
have  bells.  Borcherd  heard  that,  against  this  law, 
the  Brethren  had  a  bell  at  Bavianskloof,  and  what 
he  probably  said  was  that  the  mere  thought  of  such 
an  enormity  was  sufficient  to  disturb  his  slumbers. 
At  any  rate,  the  bell  was  silent  till  Soutii  Africa  came 
under   British   rule. 

The  next  trouble  was  due  to  Major  Teunessen. 
His  motive  was  probably  jealousy.  For  some  thirty 
or  forty  years  he  had  exercised  a  great  influence  over 
the  Hottentots ;  by  many  he  was  called  the 
*'  Hottentots'  God " ;  and  now,  when  he  found 
that  the  Brethren  were  exerting  a  stUl  greater 
influence,  he  became  their  bitterest  enemy,  and  sided 


274        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

with  certain  unscrupulous  Boer  farmers.  The 
farmers'  case  may  have  had  some  justice  in  it.  In 
former  years,  so  they  declared,  Hottentots  had 
worked  on  their  farms  ;  now  they  had  deserted  the 
farms  and  settled  at  Bavianskloof ;  and  as  a  result 
of  this,  they  contended,  the  farming  industry 
suffered.  On  the  surface,  this  argument  was  per- 
fectly sound  ;  Major  Teunessen  went  to  Cape  Town 
and  complained  that  Bavianskloof  was  over- 
crowded ;  and  then,  returning  accompanied  by  three 
officials,  he  announced  that,  in  accordance  with  a 
new  Government  order,  no  Hottentot  might  live  at 
Bavianskloof  unless  he  could  show  a  certificate 
proving  that  the  farmer  for  whom  he  had  previously 
worked  had  allowed  him  to  come.  For  some  months 
this  attack  on  the  Mission  succeeded  ;  most  of  the 
farmers,  as  Teunessen  knew,  could  neither  read  nor 
write ;  and  his  argument,  therefore,  about  the 
certificate  was  unblushing  trickery.  But  once  again 
the  Government  acted  nobly.  In  response  to  the 
Brethren's  request,  a  special  inspector  came  to 
Bavianskloof;  this  inspector  now  discovered  that, 
so  far  from  being  over-crowded,  Bavianskloof 
possessed  only  twelve  head  of  cattle,  only  one  hundred 
goats,  only  two  sheep,  and  only  one  horse ;  and 
acting  on  the  inspector's  report,  the  Government 
rescinded  its  order. 
1800  The  last  trouble  was  due  to  a  famous  rebel.     At 

the  very  time  when  the  English  fleet  was  bombarding 
Cape  Town,  there  was  formed  in  South  Africa  the 
so-called  National  Party,  the  chief  object  of 
which  was  to  throw  off  the  yoke  of  Holland  and 
establish  a  South  African  Independent  Republic ; 
and  now,  led  by  an  Italian  named  Pisani,  they  actually 
issued  a  manifesto  declaring  that  one  of  their  most 
important  designs  was  the  absolute  destruction  of 
Bavianskloof.      Pisani  appears  to  have  been  a  half- 


South  Africa  West  :   or  the  Hottentots.  275 

mad  fanatic.  "  I  belong  myself,"  said  he,  "  to  the 
devil ;  sooner  or  later  I  shall  be  damned  in  any 
case  ;  and  meanwhile  I  will  do  my  best  to  prevent 
the  Hottentots  going  to  heaven."  The  chief  terms 
of  the  manifesto  were  as  follows  : — 

(1)  We  will  not  permit  any  Moravians  to  live  here 

and  teach  the  Hottentots. 

(2)  All  Hottentots  born  on  farms  must  live  on 

those   farms,   and   live   without   wages   till 
they  are  twenty-five  years  old. 

(3)  All   other   Hottentots   must  live   among  the 

farmers. 

(4)  All   Hottentots   and   Bushmen   must   remain 

slaves  for  life. 

(5)  If  the  Moravians  want  to  preach,  they  may  go 

to  the  Bushmen. 

For  the  Brethren  there  was  now  only  one  course 
open  ;  Pisani  issued  a  definite  order  that  they  must 
leave  Bavianskloof  in  three  days  ;  and  the  Brethren, 
driving  off  to  Cape  Town,  left  the  station  in  charge 
of  old  Helena. 

But  the  day  of  deliverance  was  nearer  than  the  1801 
Brethren  thought.  Once  more  the  Governor, 
Schuysken,  proved  himself  a  true  statesman.  In 
the  past  he  had  tried  to  be  just  to  the  Brethren, 
and  now  he  openly  acted  as  their  champion.  First, 
he  provided  the  Brethren  with  a  safe-conduct,  and 
authorised  them  to  return  to  Bavianskloof ; 
secondly,  knowing  that  Moravian  Hottentots  were 
ser\ang  in  the  Dutch  Army  at  Cape  Town,  he  ordered 
Teunessen  to  send  provisions  to  Bavianskloof ; 
and  finally,  a  month  later,  when  Cape  Town 
surrendered  and  South  Africa  became  a  British 
Colony    (September    16th,    1801),    he   recommended 


276        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Bavianskloof    to    the    care    of   the    new    Governor, 
General  Craig.f 

2.      The    Rule    of   Great   Britain,    1806 — 1914. 

As  soon  as  South  Africa  passed  into  British  hands, 
the  Moravian  cause  at  Genadendal  entered  on  a  new 
epoch  of  great  prosperity  ;  the  British  rule  began 
with  fair  play  to  all  religious  denominations  ;  and 
so  deep  was  the  interest  taken  by  many  of  the 
Governors,  not  only  in  the  material,  but  also  in  the 
moral  and  religious,  welfare  of  the  Hottentots, 
that  one  enthusiastic  Moravian  missionary,  John 
Henry  Schmitt — noted  for  his  fight  with  a  panther — 
declared  that  his  confidence  in  the  Government 
was  complete.  His  praise  was  more  than 
justified.  Lord  Macartney  provided  the  timber 
of  which  the  first  Church  at  Genadendal  was  built, 
and  had  the  Moravian  property  clearly  defined  by 
law.  Sir  John  Craddock  paid  several  visits  to 
Genadendal,  interviewed  the  converts  in  their  huts, 
granted  land  for  the  extension  of  the  settlement, 
subscribed  towards  the  building  of  a  school-house, 
and  even  sent  the  Brethren  a  sermon,  printed  at  his 
own  request,  on  the  importance  of  religious  education. 
Lord  Caledon  granted  the  land  for  a  new  station 
at  Gruenekloof,  near  Cape  Town ;  Sir  Tony  Cole 
(1880)  visited  the  Leper  Hospital  at  Hemel-en-Aarde, 
and  examined  every  detail  of  the  work  ;  Sir  George 
Grey,*  who  also  visited  Genadendal,  informed  the 
Brethren  that  if  they  would  open  schools  in  Kaffraria 
the  Government  would  cover  the  expense  ;    and  Sir 

tin  1802,  by  the  Treaty  of  AmienB,  South  Africa  was  restored  to 
Holland;  but  in  1806  was  finally  annexed  by  Great  Britain. 

♦Sir  George  Grey  is  noted  for  his  interest  in  Missions.  He  was 
afterwards  Governor  of  New  Zealand,  and  asked  the  Brethren 
to  undertake  work  among  the  Papus  in  Victoria.  For  his 
interest  in  the  natives  of  Samoa,  sec  R.  L.  Stevenson's 
"  Vailima  Memories,"  p.  18. 


South  Afbica  West  :  or  the  Hottentots.  277 

George  Napier  (1840)  was  so  delighted  with  the 
settlement  that  he  actually  raised  a  fund  for  a 
Mission  among  the  Fingoos.  Let  us  now  see 
how  the  Brethren,  aided  and  encouraged  by  the 
Government,  endeavoured  to  uplift  the  Hottentots. 

The  Grant  System.  For  eighty-two  years  lg27''1909 
Genadendal  was  managed  on  the  so-called  "  Grant 
System  "  ;  this  system  was  also  adopted  at  some 
other  stations ;  and  the  leading  principle  of  the 
system  was  that  while  the  Government  granted 
the  land  free  of  rent,  and  for  the  benefit  of  the 
natives,  the  Brethren,  in  return  for  the  privilege, 
undertook  the  entire  management — govern- 
mental, industrial,  educational,  and  religious — 
of  the  growing  town.  At  each  of  these  "  Grant 
Stations,"  therefore,  the  missionaries  had  to  perform 
a  great  variety  of  duties.  They  were  employers  of 
labour  ;  they  were  magistrates  ;  they  were  sanitary 
inspectors  and  medical  officers  ;  they  were  school- 
inspectors  ;  and  thereby  they  saved  the  Government 
many  thousands  of  pounds.  In  England  work  of  this 
sort  was  done  by  Government  officials  ;  in  South 
Africa  it  was  done,  without  any  extra  salary,  by  the 
Moravian  missionaries ;  and  the  Government, 
recognising  fully  the  high  value  of  their  work,  were 
naturally  only  too  anxious  to  make  new  grants  of 
land.  By  observing  how  the  system  worked  at 
Genadendal,   we   shall   appreciate  its  importance. 

(1)  By  nature  most  of  the  Hottentots  were  lazy  ; 
by  the  Brethren  they  were  now  taught  to  work  ; 
and  so  industrious  did  they  become  that  in  a  few 
years  they  made  the  settlement  the  second  largest 
town  in  South  Africa.  The  business  part  of  the  town 
was  called  the  "  Werft."  At  the  head  of  each 
department  was  a  missionary ;  each  section,  t.c, 
the  grocery  stores,  the  flower  garden,  the  smithy. 


278        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

the  allotments,  and  the  pastureland,  was  under 
immediate  Moravian  control ;  and  thus  guided,  the 
Hottentots  became  energetic  and  skilful  artisans. 
In  the  smithy  they  made  the  best  knives  in  the 
colony ;  both  their  tobacco  and  their  snuff  were 
renowned  at  Cape  Town  for  their  delicate  flavour  ; 
missionaries  and  Hottentots  alike  now  wore  home- 
made leather  trousers ;  and  once,  when  a  period 
of  bad  trade  threatened  the  station  with  starvation, 
the  missionaries  speedily  averted  the  danger  by 
planting  7,000  castor-oil  trees  and  setting  up  a  machine 
to  extract  the  oil.  The  little  town  became  a  model 
of  decency  and  order.  Each  family  man  now  lived, 
not  as  of  old,  in  a  bee-hive  hut,  but  in  a  brick 
cottage,  behind  which  he  had  about  an  acre  of 
land,  let  out  in  usufruct ;  and  here,  like  an 
English  allotment-holder,  he  grew  his  own  fruit  and 
vegetables,  and  kept  his  own  pig  and  hens.  By  the 
middle  of  the  century  Genadendal  had  become  a 
famous  industrial  centre.  Genadendal  ploughs,  in- 
vented by  a  missionary,  took  first  prize  at  Cape  Town  ; 
Genadendal  snuff-boxes  were  made  from  the  historic 
pear-tree ;  Genadendal  goods,  of  various  kinds, 
were  shown  at  the  Great  Exhibition  in  London  (1851) ; 
and  Genadendal  castor-oil  won  a  gold  medal.  Nor 
were  such  facts  the  best  part  of  the  story.  Good 
articles  suggested  good  workmen ;  good  workmen 
were  the  chief  need  of  the  colony  ;  and  the  con- 
sequence was  that  the  Genadendal  Hottentots  often 
found  employment  outside  the  station.  The 
labourers  earned  good  wages  on  the  railway  ;  the 
girls  made  good  servants  at  Cape  Town,  sometimes 
in  the  homes  of  high  officials,  and  became  noted  for 
their  integrity  of  character  ;  and  the  young  men, 
who  enlisted  in  the  army  and  fought  in  the  Kaffir 
Wars,  were  praised  for  their  loyalty  and  bravery. 
Thus  did  Genadendal  become  famous  ;    the  natives 


South  Africa  West  :   or  the  Hottentots.  279 

called  the  place  "  God's  Home  "  ;  and  \isitors  from 
Cape  Town  were  entranced  by  its  beauty.  In  the 
spring  and  early  summer  the  station  shone  at  its 
fairest.  On  the  neighbouring  hill  red  flowers  were 
massed  in  thousands  ;  peaches,  oranges  and  tomatoes 
gleamed  in  the  gardens  ;  the  brook,  on  its  way  to 
the  Sonderend,  sparkled  in  the  sunshine ;  and 
Pringle,  the  South  African  poet,  expressed  the 
popular  admiration  in  the  lines  : — 

In  distant  Europe  oft  I've  longed 

To  see  this  Vale  of  Grace  ;   to  hst  the  sound 

Of  bubbling  brooks  and  morning  twitters  round 

The  apostle  Schmidt's  old  consecrated  tree ; 

To  hear  the  hvnins  of  solemn  melody 

Rising  from  the  sequestered  burial  ground, "f 

To  see  the  heathen  taught,  the  lost  sheep  found, 

The  blind  restored,  the  long-oppressed  set  free. 

All  this  I've  \\-itnessed  now,  and  pleasantly 

Its  memory  shall  in  my  heart  remain. 

(2)  Secondly,  the  Brethren  acted  as  magistrates. 
As  the  land  was  Moravian  grant-land,  the  missionaries 
had  full  authority  to  say  who  might  and  who  might 
not  live  there.  No  Hottentot,  therefore,  could 
live  at  Genadendal  without  the  Brethren's  per- 
mission ;  and  that  permission  was  not  given  except 
on  stringent  conditions.  Each  applicant  had  to 
show  a  certificate  proving  that  he  was  not  some 
farmer's  labourer  ;  he  had  to  work  whether  he  wished 
to  or  not ;  and,  above  all,  he  had  to  sign  a  document 
known  as  the  "  Genadendal  Regulations."  And 
those  "  Regulations  "  were  most  rigidly  enforced. 
No  public-houses  and  no  gambling  halls  were  per- 
mitted ;  no  wines  or  spirits  were  sold  in  the  shops  ; 
no  tramps  solicited  alms  ;    and  no  boys  played  pitch 

fPriiigle  is  probably  referring  here  to  the  early  morning  Eaater 
Sunday  service. 


280        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

and  toss  in  the  streets.  At  one  time  certain  hostile 
Boers  circulated  the  absurd  report  that  the  Brethren 
were  traitors  in  disguise,  and  that  their  converts 
possessed  fire-arms,  and  might,  therefore,  at  any 
moment,  rise  in  rebellion  against  the  Government. 
The  very  opposite,  of  course,  was  the  case.  "  No 
Hottentot,"  ran  the  rule,  "  is  to  keep  fire-arms  in 
his  house  at  night.  He  must  dehver  them  up  to 
us  every  evening.  If  he  goes  with  arms  into  the 
country,  he  must  have  a  certificate  from  us  ;  other- 
wise, every  farmer  has  a  right  to  take  them  from 
him."  By  enforcing'  these  "  Regulations,"  there- 
fore, the  Brethren  preserved  due  law  and  order ; 
and  all  the  converts  were  instructed  to  be  loyal  to 
the  Government. 

(8)  Still  further,  according  to  their  limited  ability, 
the  Brethren  tried  to  act  as  medical  advisers.  As  the 
nearest  doctor  lived  twenty  miles  away,  and  medical 
missionaries,  strictly  speaking,  did  not  yet  exist, 
the  Brethren  could  only  make  the  best  of  a  bad  case. 
In  order  to  provide,  as  far  as  possible,  for  the  medical 
needs  of  the  people,  they  opened  a  chemist's  shop, 
which  was  managed  by  a  missionary ;  and  this 
missionary,  though  not  a  qualified  practitioner, 
could,  at  least,  deal  with  snake-bites,  administer 
rhubarb  and  salts,  check  the  rather  frequent  "  bilious 
fever  "  by  means  of  an  emetic,  and  admonish  the 
people  to  eat  salt,  wear  suitable  clothing,  and  wash 
their  hands  before  meals.  He  had  also,  it  appears, 
learned  how  to  vaccinate ;  and  no  conscientious 
objectors  existed. 

(4)     Above  all  the  Brethren  laid  stress  on  general 

and    religious    education.     In    this    work    the    chief 

leader  was  Bishop  Hans  Peter  Hallbeck.     He  founded 

1838      an  excellent  Training  School  for  teachers  (1838) ;    this 

institution    provided    native   teachers    for   the  day- 


South  Africa  West  :   or  the  Hottentots.  281 

schools ;  and  the  people  reached  such  a  high 
intellectual  level,  that  the  printing  press  was  able  to 
issue  two  monthly  magazines.  With  the  spiritual 
results  most  of  the  missionaries  at  Genadendal 
expressed  themselves  delighted.  Some  of  the  people 
acted  as  sidesmen  and  sextons  ;  the  Church  music 
was  of  a  very  high  order,  and  the  Hottentots  sang 
correctly  tunes  which,  said  Christian  Ignatius  La 
Trobe,  a  gifted  ]Mora\-ian  composer,  were  often 
considered  too  difficult  for  the  average  English 
congregation  ;  and  all  the  Church  members,  especially 
after  emancipation  came  into  force,  contributed 
generously  to  the  Church  funds  and  supplied  free 
labour  when  required. 

8.     Some  Missionary  Problems, 

As  the  work  at  Genadendal  was  such  a  brilliant 
success,  several  Government  officials  in\'ited  the 
Brethren  to  found  new  stations ;  and  in  response  to 
these  invitations  they  established  Mamre  (1808), 
Enon  (1818),  Elim  (1824),  Clarkson  (1889),  Wittewater 
(1859),  Goedverwacht  (1859),  Berea  (1865),  Witklei- 
bosch  (1883),  Pella  (1893),  Twistwyk  (1895).  But 
these  stations  were  not  all  of  the  same  kind.  Four 
of  the  stations — EHm,  Wittewater,  Goedverwacht, 
and  Pella — were  Moravian  freehold  property  ;  four 
others — Enon,  Mamre,  Clarkson,  and  Berea — 
were,  like  Genadendal,  "  Grant  Stations " ; 
and  the  two  remaining,  Witkleibosch  and  Twistwj-k, 
were  only  preaching  places.  On  the  whole  the  "  Grant 
Stations  "  gave  the  missionaries  the  most  trouble. 
Let  us  see  precisely  how  this  came  to  pass.  For 
of  every  trouble  faced  by  the  Moravians  in  South 
Africa  we  shall  find  the  same  fundamental  cause ; 
that  cause  was  the  grooving  native  self-consciousness  ; 
and  the  self-consciousness,  in  its  turn,  was  due  to 
other   subsidiary    causes. 


282        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

(a)  The  first  cause  was  the  Act  of  Emancipation 
(1888).  As  soon  as  slavery  was  abolished  in  South 
Africa,  many  Hottentots,  tired  of  working  for  a 
master,  rushed  in  search  of  better  conditions  to  the 
Moravian  Stations ;  the  Boers  now  accused  the 
Brethren  of  enticing  the  Hottentots ;  and  the 
Government  came  to  the  rescue  of  the  Mission  by 
forming  a  "  Commission  of  Inquiry "  (1849).  At 
every  station  each  Hottentot  had  to  answer  the  follow- 
ing official  questions  : — 

(1)  Are  you  compelled  to  buy  your  goods  in  the 

Moravian  shop  ? 

(2)  Are  you  compelled  to  work  here  at  a  lower 

wage  than  you  can  get  elsewhere  ? 
(8)     Are  you  urged  to  industry  ? 

(4)  Are  you  obliged  to  leave  your  employment 

in  order  to  attend  Church  festivals  ? 

(5)  Do  the  missionaries  interfere  with  the  price 

for  which  you  work  for  the  farmers  ? 

To  each  of  these  questions  the  answers  were  satis- 
factory ;  the  charges  against  the  missionaries  broke 
down  ;  and  Hottentots  flocked  to  the  stations  in 
greater  numbers  than  ever.  But  this  inrush  brought 
its  own  dangers  with  it.  In  many  cases  these  new- 
comers were  not  pure-bred  Hottentots,  but  half- 
breeds,  some  of  whom  were  of  a  lower  moral 
type  than  the  Hottentots  ;  and  many  of  those  who 
held  Government  certificates  as  teachers  had  to  be 
dismissed  for  insubordination. 

(6)  The  next  trouble  arose  directly  from  the 
"  Grant  System."  Let  us  note  here  the  precise 
difference  between  a  "  Freehold  Station "  and  a 
"  Grant  Station."  In  the  former,  i.e.,  on  its  own 
property,  the  Moravian  Church  had  undisputed 
authority ;  in  the  latter,  the  property  ultimately 
really  belonged  to  the  Government,  and  the  Brethren, 


South  Africa  West  :   or  the  Hottentots.  283 

who  had  it  merely  on  trust,  and  acted  as  Government 
officials,  were  bound  down,  as  much  as  the  natives, 
by  Government  regulations  ;  and  the  natives,  being 
aware  of  this  latter  fact — knowing,  t.e.,  that  the  land 
did  not  belong  to  the  missionaries — began  to  suspect 
that,  somehow  or  other,  they  were  being  defrauded 
of  their  just  rights.  If  the  land,  they  argued,  did 
not  belong  to  the  missionaries,  to  whom  then  must 
it  belong  ?  Surely  it  must  belong  to  the  natives. 
Such  thoughts  fostered  a  restive  spirit.  Some  of 
the  natives  sometimes  complained  to  the  Govern- 
ment ;  at  one  station  they  even  instituted  a  law-suit ; 
and  though  the  Brethren  won  the  case,  all  the 
missionaries  felt  that  such  painful  disputes  must  not 
be  repeated.  For  all  such  troubles  the  only 
conceivable  remedy  was  some  form  of  local 
self-government.  At  the  close  of  the  Boer  War 
the  hopes  of  the  natives  rose  higher  than  ever.  With 
those  hopes  both  the  Moravian  missionaries  and  their 
friends,  the  Rhenish  missionaries,  had  a  certain 
amount  of  sympathy.  As  long  as  the  Hottentots 
remained  loyal  to  the  crown,  there  was  no  reason, 
they  contended,  why  they  should  not  learn  to  rule 
themselves.  Each  society,  the  Moravian  and  the 
Rhenish,  now  appealed  to  the  Government.  The 
Government  yielded  ;  "  Mission  Land  Act  "  was 
passed  (1909),  dealing  with  the  Grant  System ; 
and  henceforward  a  station  might  be  managed,  not 
by  missionaries  acting  as  Government  officials, 
but  by  a  Board  of  six,  four  of  whom  were 
elected  by  the  people,  and  two  appointed  by  the 
Government.  As,  however,  the  application  of 
the  Act  was  optional,  no  sudden  dramatic 
change  occurred :  Some  of  the  stations  tried 
to  apply  the  Act ;  others  seemed  to  prefer  the 
old   conditions. 

(c)     The  third  cause  of  trouble  sprang  from  non- 


284        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Moravian  sources.  In  1892,  some  native  converts, 
led  by  a  certain  Malone,  left  the  Wesleyan  Methodist 
Church  and  formed  the  "  Ethiopian  Church " ; 
then  they  affiliated  themselves  with  the  African 
Methodist  Episcopal  Church  of  North  America ; 
and  then,  led  by  a  colonial  Bishop,  Turner,  they 
announced  the  far-reaching  principle  that  South 
Africa  could  never  be  saved  from  ruin  unless  it 
possessed  a  Native  Church  served  by  native  ministers. 
Bishop  Turner's  conceptions,  to  some  extent,  in- 
fluenced the  Moravian  converts ;  the  "  Native 
Church"  ideal  steadily  grew;  and  thereby  problems 
were  raised  which  still  await  solution. 

{d)  The  last  trouble  was  of  a  different  nature. 
In  spite  of  the  Brethren's  repeated  requests,  the 
Government  refused  to  deal  satisfactorily  with  the 
liquor  traffic.  At  one  time  a  useful  law  was  passed 
that  no  intoxicating  liquor  should  be  sold  within 
ten  miles  of  Genadendal ;  but  this  rule  was  not  applied 
to  the  other  stations ;  and  the  general  situation 
was  that  while  strong  drink  could  not  be  obtained  in 
the  station  itself,  it  could  be  obtained  in  the  immediate 
neighbourhood.  In  South  Africa  drink  is  specially 
dangerous.  Drink  leads  to  immorality  ;  immorality 
leads  to  consumption ;  and  consumption,  if  un- 
checked, threatens  to  annihilate  the  people. 

4.  The  Work  among  the  Lepers,  1818-68. 

For  fifty  years  the  Moravians,  at  the  special 
request  of  the  Government,  did  useful  work  among 
the  South  African  lepers.  The  first  centre  was 
Hemel-en-Aarde,  a  few  miles  south  of  Genadendal, 
and  six  miles  from  the  sea  coast.  Once  more  there 
was  cordial  co-operation  between  the  Government 
and  the  Moravian  Church.  The  Government  built 
both  the  hospital  and  the  Church,  and  provided  the 
salary ;    Dr.  Honey,  an  English  practitioner,  visited 


South  Africa  West  :   or  the  Hottentots.  285 

twice  a  week ;  and  Peter  Leitner,  the  Moravian 
chaplain,  acted  as  general  manager.  Each  week  he 
had  to  see  to  it  that  twenty-four  sheep  were  killed  ; 
each  day,  aided  by  his  English  wife,  he  saw  each 
patient  properly  fed  and  washed ;  and,  following 
Dr.  Honey's  instructions,  he  enabled  those  who  could 
walk  the  six  miles  to  have  their  daily  sea-bath. 
His  experience  as  a  preacher  of  the  Gospel  was 
mingled.  On  the  one  hand  he  complained  that 
many  of  the  patients  were  fond  of  dancing,  stole 
milk  and  butter,  and  smuggled  in  spirits  ;  on  the 
other  hand,  he  baptized  ninety-five  converts  ;  and 
when  he  died  of  a  stroke  at  Church,  the  lamentation 
was  great.  For  the  physical  troubles  of  the  lepers 
neither  Leitner  nor  the  Doctor  had  been  able  to  do 
much ;  no  case  of  cure  was  recorded  ;  and,  after 
twenty-three  years'  work,  nearly  four  hundred  lepers' 
bodies  lay  in  the  little  churchyard. 

But  the  Government  had  not  yet  abandoned  hope. 
In  order  to  segregate  the  lepers  still  more, 
they  now  removed  the  Hospital  to  Robben  Island,  1846 
where  the  missionary  had  to  look  after,  not  only  lepers 
of  various  races — English,  Italian,  German,  Danish, 
Swedish,  and  Hungarian — but  also  fifty  or  sixty 
lunatics  ;  and  as  these  latter  were  allowed  to  roam 
the  island,  both  he  and  his  wife  and  children  were 
often  in  serious  danger  of  being  murdered.  But 
Robben  Island,  as  a  health  resort,  was  no  more 
successful  than  Hemel-en-Aarde.  In  spite  of  the 
systematic  sea-bathing  the  death-rate  was  still  high  ; 
one  year  the  missionary  conducted  seventy-two 
funerals ;  and  sometimes  several  bodies,  sewn  in 
blankets,  had  to  be  placed  in  one  grave.  Nor 
were  the  spiritual  results  much  more  encouraging. 
For  all  the  inhabitants  on  the  island,  i.e.,  all  the 
lepers  and  the  least  violent  lunatics,  regular  pubUc 
Sunday    worship    was    held ;     various    week-night 


286        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

meetings  were  also  held ;  the  singing,  led  by  a 
seraphine,  seemed  to  give  pleasure  ;  and  yet,  so  far 
as  concerned  repentance,  most  of  the  patients 
seemed  hopeless.  Both  drink  and  immorality  claimed 
their  victims  ;  many  died  with  curses  on  their  lips  ; 
and  one  missionary,  Kiister,  observed,  to  his  dismay, 
that  the  more  wicked  a  man  was  the  greater  was  the 
attendance  at  his  funeral.  For  five  years  John 
1861*^  Taylor,  from  Yorkshire,  acted  both  as  preacher 
and  as  schoolmaster ;  but,  though  he  gained  the 
people's  affection,  he  could  make  little  improvement 
in  their  character.  At  length  the  Government 
intervened  once  more  ;  the  work  was  handed  over 
to  the  Church  of  England  ;  and  the  Moravians, 
who  had  learned  to  take  a  deep  interest  in  lepers, 
transferred  their  attention  to  similar  work  in 
Jerusalem. 

5.     Cape  Town  and  Port  Elizabeth,  1894 — 1914. 

Once  more  the  cause  of  the  problem  was  political. 
As  soon  as  emancipation  came  into  full  force,  many 
Hottentots — not  only  from  the  Moravian  stations, 
but  also  from  the  neighbouring  Boer  farms — ^rushed 
to  Cape  Town  and  Port  Elizabeth  in  search  of  good 
employment  and  high  wages ;  by  the  year  1890 
there  were  at  least  2,000  Hottentots  in  Cape  Town  ; 
and  when  the  missionary  followed  his  wandering 
sheep,  he  found,  not  altogether  to  his  surprise,  that 
in  most  cases  they  had  succumbed  to  the  temptations 
of  town  life.  As  Edmund  Burke  found  it  easy  to  be 
good  in  the  village,  but  hard  in  the  city  of  Dublin, 
so  the  Hottentots  found  it  easy  at  Genadendal,  but 
hard  at  Cape  Town.  In  the  stations  they  had  been 
under  supervision  ;  in  the  towns  they  were  free  ;  and 
misusing  their  liberty,  they  took  to  evil  ways.  In  the 
stations,  brandy  could  not  be  bought ;  in  the  towns  it 
was  cheap ;  and  the  consequence  needs  no  description. 


I 


South  x\frica  West  :   or  the  Hottentots.  287 

In  the  stations  or  on  the  farms  they  had  earned 
modest  wages  ;  in  the  towns  they  earned  high  wages, 
either  in  the  docks  or  in  the  gas-works  ;  and  the 
pubUcan  reaped  the  benefit  of  the  improvement. 
In  the  stations  they  lived  with  fellow-Christians  ; 
in  the  towns  some  of  their  fellow-workmen  were 
Mahometans ;  and  these  Mahometans  hated  the 
Christian  rehgion,  and  were  often  addicted  to  sorcery, 
gambling,  and  other  evil  ways.  Never,  therefore, 
did  the  Brethren  in  South  Africa  face  a  more  difficult 
problem.  In  Cape  Town  they  founded  Mora%-ian  Hill 
(1894) ;  in  Port  Elizabeth,  Moravian  Hope  (1898) ;  and 
some  missionaries  held  the  opinion  that  this  work  in 
the  two  cities  was  the  most  important  Moravian  work 
in  the  colony.  For  some  years  the  chief  difficulty 
lay  in  the  fact  that  the  converts  in  these  cities 
were  so  scattered.  In  Cape  Town  "  Coloureds  "  were 
found  in  no  fewer  than  thirty-eight  different  streets  ; 
in  Port  Elizabeth  Kaffirs  dwelt  in  "Locations," 
compared  by  one  Brother  to  the  criminal  dens 
described  in  "  Ohver  T^^^st "  ;  and  thus,  close 
pastoral  superxision  was  almost  an  impossibility. 
At  length,  however,  an  excellent  remedy  was  found. 
Each  town  was  divided  into  districts ;  over  each 
district  a  Native  Helper  was  appointed  ;  and  thus, 
in  the  very  hotbeds  of  vice.  Christian  Hottentots, 
clothed  with  a  new  sense  of  responsibility,  learned  to 
save  their  fellow-countrymen  from  physical  and 
moral  ruin. 


Chapter  VII. 

SOUTH  AFRICA,   EAST  :     OR  THE  KAFFIRS, 

1828—1914. 

For  the  sake  of  clearness  I  begin  this  chapter  by 
explaining  that,  in  order  to  understand  the  story, 
we  must  distinguish  clearly  between  three  districts 
or  fields  of  labour,  described  here  as  Cape 
Colony,  Tembuland,  and  Hlubiland  ;  and,  in  each 
district,  certain  names,  either  of  persons  or  of  places, 
stand  out  with  prominence.  In  Cape  Colony  the 
story  centres  round  the  strange  and  dramatic  history 
of  the  first  station,  Shiloh,  on  the  Klipplaat  River ; 
in  Tembuland  the  chief  name  to  remember  is  that  of 
Elias,  a  splendid  Kaffir  evangelist ;  and  in  Hlubiland 
we  shall  hear  of  the  exploits,  partly  of  Henry  Meyer, 
the  missionary,  and  partly  of  his  assistant,  the 
chieftain,  Zibi.  Let  us  also  note  the  geographical 
direction.  Among  the  Kaffirs  Moravian  work  was 
a  steady  advance  north-east.  First,  in  1828,  the 
Brethren  began  in  Cape  Colony;  then,  in  1863,  they 
entered  Tembuland  ;  and  then,  in  1870,  they  pushed 
still  further  north-east  into  Hlubiland.  In  Cape 
Colony  the  chief  stations  were  Shiloh  (1828),  Goshen 
(1850),  and  Engotini  (1859) ;  in  Tembuland,  Baziya 
(1863),  Tabase  (1873),  and  Entazana  (1873) ;  and  in 
Hlubiland,  Entumasi  (1870),  Elukolweni  (1875), 
Tinana  (1876),  Bethesda  (1877),  Ezincuka  (1887), 
Mvenyane  (1893),  and  Nxotschane  (1905).  With 
these  main  facts  before  us,  we  may  note  certain 
details.  Each  section  will  throw  some  light  on 
certain  features  in  the  Kaffir  character. 

1.     Cape  Colony,  1828—1914. 
For  the  origin  of  Moravian  work  among  the  Kaffirs, 

laa 


South  Africa  East  :     or  the  Kaffirs.     289 

the  chief  credit  must  be  given  to  a  Kaffir  young 
woman.  The  story  opens  at  Genadendal.  Among  1816 
the  few  Kaffirs  residing  at  Genadendal,  the  most 
intelHgent  was  Wilhelmina  Stomp jes,  a  nurse  in  a 
missionary's  family  ;  this  young  woman  frequently 
prayed  for  her  heathen  fellow-countrymen ;  and 
hearing  one  day  that  a  famous  English  Moravian, 
Christian  Ignatius  La  Trobe — Editor  of  "  Periodical 
Accounts  " — had  come  to  Genadendal  on  an  official 
visit,  she  called  to  see  him,  and,  seated  on  a  low  stool, 
pleaded  her  cause  ^vith  true  eloquence. 

"  Oh  sir  !  "  she  said,  "  I  have  often  feared  that  the 
Brethren  would  leave  off  praying  for  my  people. 
But  see  !  I  have  found  a  text  which  revived  my 
hopes  :  '  I  will  bring  the  blind  by  a  way  that  they 
know  not.' — Psalm  xlii.,  16."  For  twelve  years 
Wilhelmina  waited  in  vain  ;  then  Bowana,  a  Kaffir 
chief,  being  fiercely  attacked  by  his  neighbours, 
asked  Lord  Charles  Somerset,  the  Governor,  to  protect 
him  ;  and  Lord  Charles,  in  his  reply,  suggested,  not 
only  to  Bowana,  but  also  to  the  missionaries  at 
Genadendal,  that  the  best  way  to  protect  Bowana 
was  to  send  him  the  Gospel.  Forthwith  the  Brethren 
took  the  hint ;  two  missionaries  called  on  Bowana 
(1827)  ;  and  the  chief,  clad  in  a  leopard's  skin, 
appeared  delighted  to  see  them.  In  return  for  medals 
and  coffee,  he  presented  the  Brethren  with  an  ox  ; 
the  missionaries  held  a  short  service  in  the  open  air  ; 
and  next  year,  with  Bowana's  approval,  the  Mission  1828 
to  the  KaffiLrs  began. 

The  first  station,  Shiloh,  had  a  strange  and  event- 
ful history.  In  accordance  partly  with  the  Governor's 
instructions,  and  partly  with  their  own  experiences 
at  Genadendal,  the  Brethren  made  Shiloh  a  "  Grant 
Station."  For  this  purpose  the  Government  granted 
land,  which,  in  turn,  was  let  out  in  allotments 
to  the  natives  ;    and  the  first  missionaries,  settling 


290        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

down  in  the  district,  enclosed  a  pen  for  the  cattle, 
built  not  only  a  house  for  themselves,  but  huts  for 
the  natives,  constructed  an  aqueduct,  opened  a 
smithy  and  a  carpenter's  shop,  and  began  to  teach 
the  wild  Kaffirs  how  to  be  good  artisans,  good  farmers, 
and  good  market-gardeners.  In  order  to  form  a 
Christian  nucleus  a  few  Hottentots  were  transferred 
from  Enon ;  Wilhelmina  was  made  head-mistress 
of  the  day  school ;  and  village  rules,  like  those  at 
Genadendal,  were  read  out  and  explained.  For  a 
few  months  life  at  Shiloh  ran  smoothly ;  one  of  the 
missionaries,  Bonatz  the  younger,  charmed  the 
natives  by  making  a  water-wheel ;  and  the  Brethren 
hoped  that,  in  a  few  years,  Shiloh  would  become  a 
Christian  village.  And  yet  the  very  opposite  occurred. 
During  the  next  twenty  years  Shiloh  was  often  the 
scene  of  crime  and  terror. 

(a)  The  first  trouble  was  caused  by  wicked 
Bowana.  In  spite  of  all  the  Brethren's  entreaties, 
Bowana  refused  to  become  a  Christian.  "  No  ! 
No  ! "  he  said,  "  it  is  a  serious  matter.  What 
shall  I  do  with  my  seven  wives  ?  "  On  one  occasion 
he  consulted  with  Wilhelmina. 

"  Look  here,"  he  said,  "  if  you  will  give  me  a  cow, 
I'll  give  up  one  of  my  wives." 

"  But  you  have  no  right  to  seven  wives,"  she 
answered,  "  it  is  against  the  law  of  God." 

"  Nonsense  !  "  retorted  Bowana,  "  if  God  forbids 
that,  he  might  as  well  forbid  us  to  eat." 

At  the  height  of  his  wicked  career  Bowana  was 
secretly  murdered.  For  some  reason  his  son,  Mapasa, 
suspected  the  Brethren  of  the  crime,  and,  followed 
by  fifty  blood-thirsty  warriors,  he  advanced  on  the 
Mission-house.  There,  however,  at  the  front  door, 
Wilhelmina  defied  him  :  "  Begone,  you  murderous 
coward,"  she  said  ;  and  Mapasa  and  his  warriors 
retreated. 


South  Afkica  East:    or  the  Kaffirs.     291 

(b)  The  War  of  the  Axe.  The  origin  of  this  war  1846 
was  as  follows.  For  the  crime  of  stealing  an  axe 
a  Kaffir  was  seized  by  British  soldiers  and  chained 
to  a  Hottentot ;  some  of  his  friends  tried  to  rescue 
him  by  chopping  off  the  Hottentot's  arms  ;  and,  as 
the  Hottentot  died  of  his  wounds,  these  friends 
were  held  guilty  of  murder.  Among  the  Kaffirs 
there  was  now  great  indignation  ;  Mapasa,  in  revenge, 
raised  a  local  rebellion  against  the  Government ; 
and  Major  Hogg,  the  British  Commander,  bivouacked 
at  Shiloh.  To  the  missionaries  this  was  a  great 
affliction.  Some  of  the  officers  held  a  ball  in  the 
Church  ;  some  of  the  soldiers  corrupted  the  natives' 
morals  ;  and,  as  dysentery  broke  out,  all  the  Moravian 
sisters  were  busy  as  nurses.  In  one  sense,  however, 
this  episode  aided  the  Mission.  As  soon  as  peace 
was  fully  restored,  Sir  Harry  Smith,  the  Governor, 
came  to  Shiloh  ;  there,  speaking  in  the  Church, 
he  begged  the  Kaffirs  to  be  loyal  to  the  missionaries  ; 
and  further,  he  even  promised  the  missionaries  that, 
if  they  would  build  ten  more  stations,  he  would 
provide  the  land  required.  "  I  would  rather  have 
Mission  stations,"  he  said,  "  than  military  outposts. 
The  missionaries  prevent  war,  and  thus  save  the 
Government  millions   of  pounds." 

(c)  Umlangeni's  War.  On  this  occasion  there  was  1850 
a  natural,  but  very  unfortunate,  misunderstanding. 
First  Umlangeni,  who  thought  himself  inspired,  raised 
a  grand  Kaffir  rebellion  against  the  Government ; 
then  the  Tambookies  in  Shiloh,  disregarding  the 
Brethren's  instructions,  joined  Umlangeni's  colours, 
leaving  only  Hottentots  in  the  A-illage  ;  and  Major 
Tylden,  the  British  Officer,  imagining  that  these 
Hottentots  were  rebels,  brought  up  his  heavy  guns 
and  laid  siege  to  Shiloh.  The  scene  was  now  remark- 
able. On  a  hill  outside  the  village  stood  the  loyal 
missionaries ;     in    the    Church    were    the    terrified 


292        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Hottentots,  firing  bullets  from  the  windows  ;  and 
soon  the  whole  of  Shiloh  was  in  flames.  But,  once 
more,  sweet  came  out  of  the  bitter.  As  soon  as  this 
little  village  siege  was  over,  Major  Tylden  discovered 
his  mistake  ;  ample  apologies  followed  ;  and  Shiloh 
was  rebuilt  at  Government  expense.  The  re-building 
cost  £3,000. 

1856  (d)     Umlakasa's    Prophecy.     In    order    to     raise 

another  Kaffir  rebellion,  Umlakasa,  a  Kaffir  fanatic, 
announced  that  if  the  Kaffirs  would  kill  their  old 
people  and  cattle,  and  live  entirely  on  rice  and 
sugar,  various  glorious  miracles  would  occur.  First, 
he  said,  the  Russians  would  come  and  drive  out  the 
British  ;  then  many  Kaffir  ancestors  would  rise  from 
the  dead  ;  and  then  a  new  breed  of  cattle  would 
arise,  and  corn  would  spring  up  like  mushrooms. 
Thus,  under  Kaffir  rule.  South  Africa  would  become 
an  earthly  paradise.  The  result  was  inevitable. 
Inspired  by  these  ideals,  the  foolish  Kaffirs  slew 
their  bullocks  in  thousands.  For  some  months 
the  district  round  Shiloh  now  swarmed  with  half- 
starved  beggars,  many  of  whom  came  to  Shiloh 
for  work  ;  and  one  youth,  going  out  of  his  mind, 
committed  so  many  excesses  that  the  missionaries 
had  to  lock  him  up  in  the  smithy. 

1890  {e)  The  Property  Quarrel.     We  come  here  to  one 

of  the  troubles  arising  out  of  the  "  Grant  System." 
In  spite  of  the  Brethren's  efforts  to  make  things  clear, 
some  of  the  Hottentots  at  Shiloh  imagined  that  they 
were  being  cheated.  By  right,  they  said,  all  the 
land  for  which  they  paid  rent  really  belonged  to  them  ; 
some,  led  by  a  certain  Stoffels,  broke  out  into  rebellion, 
and  encouraged  by  a  solicitor,  they  refused  to  pay 
either  rent  or  Church  dues.  To  the  missionaries  only 
one  course  was  now  open.  For  the  sake  of  law  and 
order  they  were  compelled  to  go  to  law  ;   the  verdict, 


South  Africa  East  :    or  the  Kaffirs.     293 

of  course,  was  in  their  favour  ;  and  Stoffels  and  his 
associates  were  expelled.  With  such  mere  legal 
%dctories,  however,  the  Brethren  were  far  from 
satisfied.  To  live  on  such  terms  with  their  people 
was  impossible.  At  any  moment  such  cases  might 
be  repeated  ;  Goshen,  in  fact,  witnessed  a  similar 
dispute ;  and  the  missionaries  now  began  to  feel 
that  the  "  Grant  System  "  was  a  mistake.  Nor 
was  this  "  Grant  System  "  the  only  cause  of  trouble 
at  Shiloh.  By  encouraging  the  natives  to  settle 
at  Shiloh,  the  Brethren  certainly  did  shield 
them  from  temptation ;  on  the  other  hand,  this 
system  did  not  produce  strong  characters  ;  and  from 
the  ranks  of  such  people  native  evangelists  could  not 
be  expected.  At  last,  however,  in  1903,  there  was  a 
slight  improvement ;  a  few  Kaffirs  were  thought 
fit  to  preach  ;  and  some  of  these  now  did  good  service 
in  Queenstown,  Cathcart,  King  Williamstown,  East 
London,   and  Johannesburg. 

2.     Tembuland,  1863 — 1914. 

(a)  The  Origin.  Once  more  the  chief  credit  must 
be  given  to  Wilhelmina  Stompjes.  Sir  George  Grey, 
the  Governor,  paid  a  visit  to  Shiloh  ;  there  he  had  a 
long  interview  with  Wilhelmina ;  and  there  and  then 
she  begged  him  to  use  his  influence  and  have 
stations  built  in  Tembuland.  At  his  special  request, 
therefore,  the  Brethren  entered  what  was  then  an 
independent  country. 

{h)  The  Enemies.  For  nearly  twenty  years  the 
missionaries  in  Tembuland  made  rather  slow 
progress  ;  three  stations,  however — Baziya  (1863), 
Tabase  (1873),  and  Entazana  (1873) — were  founded; 
and  this  slow  progress  was  due  to  three  deep-seated 
prejudices  in  the  Kaffir  character  : — (1)  At  the  time 
when    the    Mission    began,   Tembuland  was  practi- 


294        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

cally  independent ;  not  till  after  the  Basuto  War 
(1880)  did  it  really  come  under  British  rule  ;  and 
the  missionaries,  who  always  supported  the  Govern- 
ment, were  regarded  by  the  Kaffir  chiefs  as  enemies 
of  Kaffir  national  aspirations.  (2)  The  second 
cause  was  the  Kaffirs'  fondness  for  beer.  In  order 
to  come  into  close  touch  with  the  people,  Samuel 
Baudert — after  the  Basuto  War — roamed  nearly 
the  whole  country  on  horseback  ;  most  of  the  Kaffirs 
seemed  delighted  to  see  him,  listened  to  his  sermons 
in  the  open  air,  and  then,  lighting  their  pipes,  dis- 
cussed the  sermon  ;  and  yet,  though  they  shewed  some 
interest  in  theology,  they  refused  to  abandon  their 
drinking-bouts.  "  No  time  for  a  sermon,"  they 
would  say  sometimes,  "  it's  beer  night."  Baudert 
called  intoxication  a  sin ;  the  Kaffirs  called  it  a 
respectable  national  amusement.  (3)  But  the 
deadliest  enemy  in  Tembuland  was  the  rite  of  cir- 
cumcision. Among  the  Kaffirs  this  rite  was  insepar- 
ably associated  with  certain  licentious  customs ; 
and  yet,  at  the  same  time,  it  was  so  bound  up  with 
the  national  life  that  no  Kaffir  could  neglect  it  without 
losing  his  status  as  a  citizen.  According  to  an  old 
Kaffir  tradition,  no  uncircumcised  Kaffir  could  either 
marry,  inherit  property,  or  vote  in  the  tribal  councils. 
For  this  reason,  therefore,  the  Tembuland  Kaffir 
found  himself  on  the  horns  of  a  dilemma.  If  he 
became  a  Christian,  he  lost  his  rights  as  a  citizen  ; 
and,  if  he  permitted  his  son  to  be  circumcised,  he 
could  not  be  baptized. 

(c)  The  Remedy.  For  some  years  the  most  im- 
portant and  influential  person  in  Tembuland  was 
not  Baudert,  the  missionary,  but  his  native  Kaffir 
assistant,  Elias  ;  this  man  proved  himself  a  genuine 
hero,  and  preached  with  great  effect  to  his  own 
tribe,  the  Ornatti,  on  the  Xentu  River  ;  and  one 
chief  cause  of  his  commanding  influence  was  that, 


South  Africa  East  :    or  the  Kaffirs.     295 

at  the  risk  of  losing  his  popularity,  he  took  a  very 
firm  stand  against  national  vices  and  superstitions. 
Let  one  memorable  example  suffice.  At  one 
time  EUas's  father  was  taken  ill;  and  the  local  June,  1895 
sorceress  who  attended  the  case,  laid  down  the 
law  that,  if  Ehas  wished  his  father  to  recover,  he 
must  now,  in  accordance  with  an  old  custom,  slay 
an  ox,  sprinkle  the  roof,  hearth  and  lintels  with  blood, 
eat  a  little  ox-flesh  himself,  and  hang  up  juicy  morsels 
about  the  kraal.  For  Elias  this  was  a  terrible  test. 
He  had  now  to  choose  between  Christ  and  the 
sorceress.  If  he  obeyed  the  sorceress,  he  would  be 
untrue  to  his  Di\'ine  Master;  but  if  he  disobeyed, 
and  his  father  died,  his  brothers  would  accuse  him 
of  murder.  Elias  decided  for  Christ.  For  ten  days 
he  was  in  a  state  of  agony,  crying  repeatedl}^  "  Oh  I 
Christ,  tliis  is  Thy  concern  ;  I  can  see  no  way  out 
of  the  difficulty" ;  and  then,  when  his  father  recovered, 
all  the  relatives  felt  that,  by  his  faith  and  courage, 
Elias  had  won  a  glorious  victory.  The  story  of  Elias  is 
most  illuminating.  It  shows  that  a  Kaffir  could  not 
become  a  Christian  without  making  great  sacrifices. 
On  the  day  when  he  was  baptized,  the  Kaffir  took  a 
firm  stand,  not  only  against  drink  and  the  abomina- 
tions connected  with  circumcision,  but  also  against 
the  powerful  witch-doctors ;  EUas's  fine  example 
inspired  many  others  ;  and  thus,  at  last,  in  Tembu- 
land,  the  cause  of  the  Gospel  began  to  flourish. 
During  the  next  few  years  the  Kaffirs  came  to 
Baziya  in  crowds  ;  and  when  they  were  asked  the 
reason,  they  said  :  "  Our  hearts  give  us  no  peace. 
The  word  of  Elias  compels  us." 

3.     Hlubiland,    1869 — 1914. 

For  the  rapid  spread  of  the  Gospel  in  Hlubiland 
three  special  reasons  may  be  given.  The  first  was 
the  amazing  energy  of  the  pioneer  missionary,  Henry 


696        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Meyer  (1869-76),  the  second  was  the  influence  of  the 
Kaffir  chief,  Zibi,  and  the  third  was  the  courageous 
attitude  adopted  both  by  the  native  evangeUsts  and 
by  many  Kaffir  women. 

(a)  Henry  Meyer,  1869-76.  The  Mission  had 
an  interesting  origin.  For  some  years  there  had  lived 
in  Hlubiland,  at  a  place  called  Ezincuka,  i.e., 
*'  among  the  wolves,"  a  powerful  and  ambitious 
Kaffir  chief  named  Zibi,  who,  having  been  baptized 
by  a  Wesleyan  missionary,  regarded  himself  as 
a  Christian ;  and  being,  like  Bowana  in  British 
Kaffraria,  attacked  by  numerous  enemies,  he  con- 
ceived the  sound  idea  that  if  the  Moravians  intro- 
duced Christianity,  he  himself,  somehow  or  other, 
would  be  enabled  to  live  in  safety.  With  regard  to 
his  original  motives,  there  can  be  little  doubt.  In 
spite  of  his  professed  Christianitj'',  he  was  still  the 
possessor  of  four  wives.  His  real  purpose  was 
political  rather  than  religious.  At  this  time  he 
occupied  land  guaranteed  him  by  the  British 
Government ;  Moravian  missionaries,  reasoned  Zibi, 
always  supported  the  Government ;  and  further, 
he  entertained  the  hope  that  those  missionaries 
would  distribute  plenty  of  tobacco  and  pay  hand- 
somely for  such  household  goods  as  they  required. 
With  these  utilitarian  motives,  therefore,  Zibi  asked 
the  Moravian  Church  to  establish  a  Mission  in 
Hlubiland.  The  result  was  entirely  different  from 
what  he  expected.  For  six  years  the  Mission  in 
Hlubiland  was  under  the  management  of  Henry 
Meyer,  who  was  both  a  great  worker  and  a  plain 
speaker ;  and  during  those  six  years  he  produced 
a  permanent  change  in  Zibi's  character.  The  physical 
energy  of  Henry  Meyer  was  remarkable.  First,  in 
1869,  he  set  off  from  Shiloh,  explored  the  Drakens 
Berge,  arrived  on  Zibi's  territory,  and,  not  finding 
Zibi  at  home,  surveyed  the  land  from  a  lonely  cave 


South  Africa  East  :    or  the  Kaffirs.     297 

in  the  hills  ;  next  year,  1870,  he  set  off  again,  cut 
a  road  through  the  hills,  called  "  Meyer's  Pass," 
built,  mostly  by  his  own  labour,  the  first  station, 
Entumasi,  and  seeing  that  Zibi  attended  the  services, 
rebuked  him  for  ha\ing  four  wives  ;  and  finally, 
in  1875,  after  establishing  a  strong  congregation  at 
Entumasi,  he  advanced  into  territory  owned  by 
Zibi's  enemy,  Ludidi,  and  founded  the  station 
Elukolweni  (1875).  The  result  was  remarkable. 
At  the  close  of  this  period  both  Zibi  and  his  enemy 
Ludidi  had  become  earnest  Christians  ;  Meyer  had 
taught  two  old  enemies  to  live  at  peace  with  each 
other ;  and  now,  being  broken  down  in  health, 
he  had  to  retire  from  the  scene.  Ten  days 
before  his  death  he  still  imagined  himself  in  Zibi's 
country. 

"  Give  me  my  stick,"  he  said.  "  I  must  cross  the 
hill  and  preach  in  Ludidi's  kraal." 

But  the  stick  felt  heavy  in  his  hand. 

"  No  !  No  !  "  he  cried.  "  The  hill  is  too  high. 
To-morrow,  or  the  day  after.  Oh,  Zibi  !  Be  faithful 
to  your  high  calling,  "f 

(b)  The  Influence  of  Zibi.  For  thirty-four  years  ISTS-ISIO 
after  Meyer's  retirement,  Zibi,  now  a  genuine 
Christian,  might  be  called  the  leading  figure  in  Hlubi- 
land  ;  one  of  his  relations,  John  Nakin,  was  ordained  a 
Moravian  minister,  and  placed  in  charge  of  a  station  ; 
and  he  himself,  at  his  old  home,  Ezincuka,  held  the 
office  of  Church  Elder.*  In  personal  appearance 
he  was  majestic  ;   he  was  tall,  broad,  and  considered 

tFor  a  short  sketch  of  Henry  Meyer  see  "  Periodical  Accounts," 
June,  1888.  BLis  importance  lies  largely  in  his  influence  over 
Kaffir  chiefs.  By  his  influence  over  Zibi,  Meyer,  indirectly, 
transformed  the  character  of  Zibi's  people,  and  many  other 
chiefs  followed  Zibi's  example. 

♦But  what,  the  reader  may  ask,  did  Zibi  do  with  his  four  wives  ? 
He  kept  one,  and  not  only  gave  the  others  handsome  pensions 
for  life,  but  ako  provided  them  with  homes. 


298        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

handsome  ;  and  on  Sundays  he  always  wore  a  black 
coat  and  trousers,  rode  up  to  Church  on  horseback, 
marched  solemnly  up  the  aisle  with  his  knobby 
stick  in  his  hand,  and  sat  on  a  bench,  below  the 
pulpit,  facing  the  congregation.  He  was  now  both 
a  British  patriot  and  a  good  Christian.  The  change 
in  his  moral  character  was  fundamental.  During 
the  Kaffir  War  in  1881,  Zibi  warmly  supported  the 
Government ;  and,  in  the  Boer  War  (1901),  two  of 
his  sons  fought  on  the  British  side.  Formerly  his  chief 
desire  was  to  obtain  good  things  from  the  missionary ; 
now  his  chief  desire  was  to  aid  the  Church  ;  and, 
therefore,  while  he  himself  became  a  generous  sub- 
scriber, he  often  urged  others  to  follow  his  example. 
On  special  occasions,  such  as  Harvest  Festivals,  Zibi 
was  brilliant.  In  Kaffraria  the  Church  member 
has  his  own  special  mode  of  subscribing.  Instead 
of  merely  laying  his  gift  on  a  plate,  he  comes  forward 
to  the  table,  and  states,  not  only  how  much  he  is 
giving,  but  why  he  cannot  give  more.  With  some 
of  the  excuses  offered  Zibi  had  little  patience.  At 
Ezincuka,  for  example,  he  laid  £5  on  the  table  ; 
others  had  the  audacity  to  bring  silver  ;  and  Zibi, 
rising  in  his  wrath,  announced  that  nothing  less  than 
half-a-sovereign  would  be  accepted.  At  Tinana  he 
made  a  similar  speech. 

"  What  do  you  mean,"  he  roared  to  the  givers  of 
silver,  "  by  clattering  your  miserable  buttons  on  the 
plate  ?  Is  that  Kaffir  custom  ?  At  such  times  the 
Kaffir  gives  of  his  best.  Our  best  is  our  bullocks, 
and  I  give  two  of  my  fattest." 

Above  all,  Zibi  took  a  firm  stand  on  moral 
matters.  He  was  now  a  great  supporter  of 
education,  and  of  Christian  ideals,  and  frequently 
he  expressed  a  desire  that  the  Government  would 
prohibit  the  sale  of  strong  drink  in  his  district. 
At    the    close    of    a    baptismal    service    he    would 


South  Africa  East  :    or  the  Kaffirs.     299 

follow  the  parents  into  the  vestry,  and  kissing 
the  child,  urge  them  to  train  it  in  the  fear  of  the 
Lord  ;  in  his  oym  district  he  urged  all  parents  to 
send  their  children  to  the  Brethren's  Day  School ; 
and,  kno^ving  the  moral  dangers  connected  ■v^'ith 
circumcision,  he  drew  up  an  anti-circumcision  pledge, 
and  persuaded  thirty  young  men  to  sign  it. 

(c)  The  Kaffir  Evangelists  and  Women.  For  patient 
heroism,  however,  the  palm  must  be  given  both  to 
the  Evangelists  and  to  those  Christian  Kaffir  women 
who,  in  defiance  of  heathen  husbands,  asked  to  be  bap- 
tized. At  Mvenyane  (1901)  a  college  for  training  native 
preachers  was  opened  ;  in  a  few  years  no  fewer  than 
seventy  native  evangelists  were  at  work,  and  these 
evangelists  created  such  a  healthy  public  opinion 
on  moral  matters,  that  many  women  were  encouraged 
to  do  Hkewise.  In  spite  of  the  influence  of  Zibi 
and  other  chiefs,  many  of  the  heathen  Kaffirs  still 
regarded  their  wives  as  mere  chattels  ;  over  these 
wives  they  claimed  undisputed  authority  ;  and  any 
woman  who  disobeyed  either  her  husband  or  her 
father,  ran  the  risk  of  brutal  treatment.  It  was 
here  that  the  Kaffir  women  showed  their  courage.  In 
defiance  of  heathen  husbands  and  fathers,  they  sent 
their  children  to  the  day  schools,  attended  the  Church, 
and  prayed  for  fine  weather,  not  to  the  sorcerer,  but 
to  the  Christian's  God.  One  typical  case  may  be 
recorded.  For  financial  reasons  a  heathen  Kaffir 
wished  his  daughter  to  play  the  harlot ;  and,  when 
she  refused,  he  began  to  flog  her. 

*'  Will  vou  give  in  now  ?  "  he  asked. 

"  Never  !  " 

The  father  continued  the  flogging,  the  girl  re- 
mained undaunted,  and  in  despair,  the  father 
exclaimed  :    "  Your  God  is  stronger  than  I." 


Chapter  VIII. 

LABRADOR,  1804—1914. 

1.    The  Stations. 

In  studying  the  history  of  the  Moravian  Mission 
to  the  Eskimos  of  Labrador,  the  outstanding  fact 
to  remember  is  that,  as  the  native  population  has 
always  been  small — never  reaching  more  than  1,500 — 
progress  in  the  arithmetical  sense  has  been  practi- 
cally impossible.  For  many  years  the  Brethren 
confined  their  efforts  to  the  three  stations  founded 
in  the  eighteenth  century,  i.e.,  Nain,  Hopedale,  and 
Okak ;  then,  by  founding  five  more  stations — 
Hebron  (1828),  Zoar  (1864),  Ramah  (1871),  Makkovik 
(1896),  and  Killinek  (1905) — they  obtained  command 
of  the  whole  coast  from  Makkovik  to  Cape  Chidley  ; 
and  this  chapter,  therefore,  will  take  the  form,  not  of 
a  chronological  narrative,  but  rather  of  a  brief 
description  of  various  methods  of  work.  With 
regard  to  the  stations,  only  two  more  facts  need  be 
mentioned.  In  1889  Zoar  was  closed  because  it 
was  too  isolated  ;  in  1908  Ramah  was  closed  for  the 
same  reason  ;  and  thus,  reading  from  north  to  south, 
the  stations  in  1914  were  Killinek,  Hebron,  Okak, 
Nain,  Hopedale,   and  Makkovik. 

2.     The  Ships. 

For  over  one  hundred  and  forty  years  the  Moravian 
Church,  by  means  of  its  own  ship,  has  maintained  a 
regular  connexion  with  Labrador  ;  Admiral  Gambierf 
once   declared   that   the   record   of  these   Moravian 

■fNoted  for  liis  gallantry  on  June  Ist,  1794.  His  ship,  the  Defence, 
was  one  of  the  first  to  pierce  the  French  line.  He  was  after- 
wards President  of  the  C.M.S.  He  was  also  a  great  friend 
of  C.  I.  La  Trobe,  and  took  a  deep  interest  in  Moravian 
Missions 

(300) 


Labrador.  801 

ships  was  unique  ;  and  the  interesting  feature  of  the 
story  is  that  while  the  total  number  of  voyages  is 
over  three  hundred,  while  reefs,  cross-currents,  ice- 
bergs, hurricanes,  fogs,  and  tickles  have  been  a 
constant  source  of  danger,  and  while  some  of  the 
ships  had  strange  adventures,  no  serious  accident 
has  occurred.  Each  year  the  voyage  to  and  fro 
has  been  made ;  each  year  valuable  goods  are  landed 
on  the  Labrador  coast ;  and  in  business  circles 
these  achievements  are  considered  so  remarkable 
that  the  Mora%'ian  ship  is  insured  at  Lloyds'  on 
specially  favourable  terms.  The  complete  hst  of 
Moravian  ships,  with  their  chief  adventures,  is  as 
follows  : — 

{a)  The  Jersey  Packet  (1770).  On  her  sailed 
Haven,  Drachart,  and  Jensen  to  choose  the 
first  site. 

(b)  The  Amity  (1771-6).     On  her  second  voyage 

out  she  called  at  Ne^vfoundland,  and  did 
not  reach  Labrador  till  October. 

(c)  The  Good  Intent  (1777-9).     In  1778  she  was 

captured  by  a  French  privateer  ;  then  she 
was  re-captured  by  a  British  cruiser  ;  and 
then  Louis  XVL,  .  King  of  France,  and 
Benjamin  Franklin,  American  Ambassador 
in  France,  both  issued  passports  declaring 
that  the  Moravian  ship  should  be  un- 
molested. In  the  King's  passport  there 
was  a  strange  condition  ;  he  seems  to  have 
had  his  suspicions  about  Moravians  ;  and 
his  passport  was  valid  for  one  year  only. 

(d)  The    Amity    (1780-6).       The    former    Amity 

restored  to  favour ;  she  had  no  special 
adventures. 

(e)  The    Harmony    (1787-1802).     One    moonlight 

night  she  was  nearly  captured  by  a  French 


802        A  History  of  Mobavian  Missions. 

privateer.     With  this  exception   her  peace 
was  unbroken. 

{j")  The  Resolution  (1808-8).  This  vessel  was  twice 
attacked  by  a  French  privateer,  and  each 
time  she  escaped  in  a  storm. 

(^)     The  Hector  (1809).     No  special  adventures. 

(h)  The  Jemima  (1810-1817).  In  1811  her  sails 
were  frozen  and  could  not  be  unfurled ; 
in  1816  she  was  surrounded  by  icebergs, 
and  remained  a  prisoner  for  fifty-nine 
days;  and  in  1817,  within  one  hour,  she 
was  struck  by  icebergs  several  times. 

(i)     Harmony  II.  (1818-31).    No  special  adventures. 

(j)  Harmony  III.  (1882-1860).  No  special 
adventures. 

(Ar)  Harmony  IV.  (1860-1896).  No  special 
adventures.  This  was  the  first  Harmony 
with  the  figure-head  of  an  angel  blowing 
a   trumpet. 

(l)  Harmony  V.  (1901  to  present  day).  For  four 
years — 1896-1900 — the  Moravians,  having 
no  ship  of  their  own,  simply  chartered  a 
vessel ;  the  next  ship.  Harmony  V.  was  the 
first  to  possess  steam  auxiliary  pow^er ; 
and  the  chief  advantage  of  the  steam  is  that, 
not  being  quite  so  much  at  the  mercy  of  the 
weather,  Harmony  V.  can  visit  the  Labrador 
coast  twice  a  year.  Each  year  she  leaves 
London  early  in  the  summer,  visits  the 
stations  from  July  to  September,  and 
returns  to  St.  John's  ;  and  then,  sailing 
for  the  second  time  she  lands  codfish  at 
St.  John's,  Newfoundland,  and  returns  to 
London  about  Christmas. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  the  change  of  route.     For 
many  years  the  Moravian  ship  skirted  the  east  coast 


Labrador.  303 

of  Scotland  ;  the  people  on  the  Orkneys  would  wave 
their  handkerchiefs  as  she  left  Stromness ;  and 
often,  on  the  return  voyage,  some  missionaries  would 
call  at  Edinburgh,  hold  a  serv'ice  on  the  deck 
of  the  ship,  and  thereby  stir  up  the  zeal  of  Scotch 
friends  of  Mora\-ian  Missions.  Amongst  these  the 
most  noted  was  Dr.  Chalmers.  He  took  a  special 
interest  in  Labrador,  and  hoped  that  the  Brethren 
would  settle  in  Ungava  Bay.  During  the  last  few 
years,  however,  the  ship  has  first  passed  through  the 
English  Channel ;  Scotch  friends  see  the  little  vessel 
no  more ;  and  the  interest  of  the  Scotch  in  the 
Moravian  Missions  has  weakened.  The  last  point  to 
mention  is  the  annual  Thanksgiving  Meeting.  In 
London  this  is  generally  held  in  January ;  in 
Labrador  it  is  held  in  June  ;  and  there,  at  every 
station,  the  great  event  is  the  annual  coming  of  the 
ship.  On  the  safe  arrival  of  the  ship  the  v/hole 
prosperity  of  the  Mission  depends.  Both  to  the 
missionaries  and  to  the  Eskimos  the  Harmony  is  the 
"  Ship  of  Life."t  The  village  watchman  takes  his 
stand  on  a  hill.  As  soon  as  he  sees  the  ship  in  the 
distance,  he  lights  his  beacon  ;  some  paddler,  knowing 
the  signal,  fires  his  gun  ;  and  a  hundred  voices  in  the 
village  shout:  "The  big  steamer!"  The  harbour 
fills  with  boats,  rifles  fire  a  salute,  flags  adoni  the 
house  roofs,  and  the  Red  Ensign  is  run  up  the  pole 
and  flies  above  the  Mission-house.  There,  around 
the  headland,  the  steamer  comes,  her  rigging  showing 
clear  against  the  sky.  As  the  long-awaited  ship 
draws  nearer  and  nearer,  and  Captain  Jackson,  once 
again,  is  seen  standing  on  the  bridge,  all  the  villagers 
who  have  not  taken  to  the  boats  assemble,  deeply 
moved,  on  the  shelving  beach  ;  and  then,  when  at 
last  the  anchor  drops,  the  clear  air  rings  with  the 

jMajor  He»keth  Prichard's  ©xpreasion.     See  Daily  Mail,  February 
17th,   1922. 


304        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Hymn  of  Praise  : — "  Now  thank  we  all  our  God." 

8.    The  Trade. 

For  three  reasons,  during  all  these  years,  the 
S.F.G.  maintained  a  regular  trade  with  the  Eskimos. 

1.  For  the  Sake  of  the  Missionaries.  No 
missionary  could  live  on  blubber,  oil,  and  fish.  At 
each  station  there  was  a  so-called  "  store  "  ;  on  that 
store  he  relied  for  his  daily  food  ;  and  that  food  was 
brought  each  year  from  England  by  the  ship. 
Instead  of  receiving  an  annual  salary  in  cash,  each 
missionary,  until  quite  recently,  received  £90  credit 
at  the  store  ;  and  all  the  actual  cash  he  saw  was 
£10  pocket  money.  For  the  sake,  therefore,  of  the 
missionaries  and  their  families,  the  Moravian  ship 
took  out  each  year  : — 

(a)    Coal. 

{h)     Tinned  meat,  tinned  fruit,  tea,  coffee,  sugar, 
bacon,  potatoes,  and  vegetables. 

(c)     A  few  household  medicines. 

{d)    Books  and  magazines. 

{e)     Letters  from  home. 
For  over  a  century  the  annual  visit  of  the  ship  was 
the  missionaries'  only  connexion  with  the  homeland  ; 
but  recently,  in  the  summer  months,  a  mail  has  run 
from  St.  John's. 

(2)  For  Financial  Reasons.  By  trading  with  the 
Eskimos,  the  S.F.G.,  for  many  years,  covered  nearly 
all  the  expenses  of  the  Mission  ;  the  chief  articles 
bought  from  the  Eskimos,  and  then  sold  in  London, 
were  seal-oil,  cod-liver  oil,  seal-skin,  fox-skin,  and 
carved  ivory  ;  and  these  articles  realized  such  an 
excellent  price  that  the  Labrador  Mission,  for  over  a 
century,  needed  no  support  from  general  Mission 
Funds.  Meanwhile,  however,  the  S.F.G.  pursued  a 
rather  singular  policy.  Instead  of  acting  like  Joseph  in 


Labrador.  805 

Egypt  during  the  seven  fat  years — instead,  i.e.,  of 
creating  a  Reserve  Fund — they  generously  made 
annual  grants  to  other  Mora\'ian  causes  ;  no  proper 
provision  for  the  future  was  made  ;  and,  therefore, 
when  prices  fell,  owing  to  altered  conditions,  the 
S.F.G.  found  themselves  in  financial  straits.  The  fall  in 
prices  was  remarkable.  In  1854  seal  oil  was  £54  a  ton; 
in  1904  it  was  only  £14;  and  in  1908  the  S.F.G. 
confessed  that  their  trade  with  Labrador  no  longer 
paid.  Nor  was  this  the  end  of  the  S.F.G.'s  troubles. 
At  the  very  time  when  their  receipts  were  diminish- 
ing, their  expenses  were  increasing.  In  1905  a  new 
station  was  built  at  Killinek  ;  in  1903-4  a  hospital 
was  built  at  Okak  ;  and  in  1906  a  new  law  was  passed 
that  henceforth  each  missionary  should  receive  his 
full  salary  in  cash.  Each  of  these  steps  increased  the 
expense  of  the  Mission.  In  1900  the  cost  was  £3,774  ; 
in  1904  it  was  £5,465  ;  and,  therefore,  a  new  arrange- 
ment had  to  be  made  that,  while  the  S.F.G.  supplied 
the  ships  and  still  traded  with  the  natives,  all  the 
other  expenses  of  the  Mission  fell  on  the  INIission 
Board.  Thus  did  an  unforeseen  alteration  in 
trade  conditions  affect  the  finances,  not  only  of  the 
Labrador  Mission,  but  of  Moravian  Missions  as  a 
whole. 

3.  For  the  Sake  of  the  Eskimos.  By  means  of  the 
trade  the  Eskimos  received  immense  advantages ; 
and,  therefore,  whether  it  paid  or  not,  it  had  still 
to  be  maintained. 

(a)  In  return  for  his  skins,  oils,  and  ivory  articles, 

the  Eskimo  received  English-made  forks, 
knives,  guns,  powder,  and  other  shooting 
and  fishing  requisites. 

(b)  By  trading  with  the  S.F.G.  the  Eskimo  was 

saved  the  necessity  of  dealing  with  other 
traders.     Some    of    these    would    probably 


806        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

have  cheated  him,  and  others  would  have 
paid  him  in  rum. 

(c)  In  Labrador  there  are  sometimes  bad  fishing 

seasons.  In  1836-7,  e.g.,  the  Eskimos  had 
to  eat  their  tent-skins ;  in  1855-6  many 
perished  of  hunger ;  and  at  such  times, 
the  Moravian  "  Store "  is  the  people's 
last  resort.  On  one  occasion  the  missionaries 
at  Okak  distributed  70,000  dried  fish. 

(d)  By    dealing    at    the    "  Store "    the    Eskimo 

learned  to  be  thrifty ;  his  debts  were 
entered,  not  only  in  the  store  ledger,  but  also 
in  his  own  pocket-book  ;  and  the  business 
understanding  was  that,  sooner  or  later, 
he  must  pay  in  full.  But  this  demand 
was  not  always  strictly  enforced  ;  a  bad 
season  was  always  a  good  excuse  ;  and  one 
year  the  S.F.G.  wrote  off  £2,500. 

(e)  Further,    by    means    of    the     "  Store "   the 

Eskimo  provided  for  Christmas.  As  soon 
as  the  autumn  hunting  season  was  over, 
all  the  Eskimos  returned  to  the  stations  ; 
during  the  next  few  weeks  the  Store  was 
crowded  ;  and  every  day  the  store-keeper 
dealt  with  keen  and  eager  hagglers.  There 
they  stood  with  their  seal-skins,  their  fox- 
skins,  their  seal-oil,  their  cod-liver  oil, 
and  their  ivory  dolls  and  canoes ;  in 
return  they  demanded  petroleum,  meal, 
peas,  soap,  aprons,  nails,  rice,  tea,  treacle, 
biscuits,  salt-meat,  guns,  powder,  shot, 
accordions,  sewing  machines,  tobacco, 
spoons,  forks,  ribbons,  carpets,  lanterns, 
wax  candles  ;  and  the  store-keeper  had  now 
to  enter  on  a  profound  mathematical  cal- 
culation.    For    every    article   in    his    shop, 


Labrador.  807 

and  also  for  every  article  sold  by  the 
Eskimos,  there  was  a  definite  money  value, 
fixed  by  the  S.F.G.  ;  no  actual  cash,  how- 
ever, changed  hands  ;  and  the  store-keeper, 
after  consulting  his  hst,  had  to  offer  so 
much  petroleimi  for  a  fox-skin,  and  so 
much  rice  or  treacle  for  a  gallon  of  oil. 
His  worst  customers  were  the  women. 
No  woman  ever  knew  at  first  what  she 
wanted.  First,  she  handled  nearly  every- 
thing in  the  shop;  then  she  criticised 
the  bargains  made  by  the  men  ;  then  she 
returned  home  to  consult  a  friend  ;  and  then, 
back  in  the  shop  once  more,  she  repeated 
the  performance. 

(/)  Above  all,  by  means  of  the  ship,  the  Eskimo 
children  were  made  happy  ;  the  Harmony 
ahvays  contained  hundreds  of  presents ; 
and  these  presents  were  packed  in  four 
different  boxes.  In  box  one  there  was 
baby  clothing,  to  be  given  to  the  mother 
on  the  day  her  child  was  baptized ;  in  box 
two,  school  prizes,  i.e.,  books,  toys  and 
mittens  ;  in  box  three,  Christmas  presents, 
i.e.,  scrap-books,  dolls,  beads,  etc. ;  and  in 
box  fom%  some  gifts  for  the  native  helpers. 
For  all  the  widows  and  orphans,  too,  some 
special  provision  was  made.  Thus  did  the 
Harmony  supply  the  needs — physical,  in- 
tellectual and  moral — of  all  classes  in 
Labrador. 

For  two  simple  reasons,  however,  this  trade  with 
the  Eskimos  caused  the  S.F.G.  much  anxiety.     The 

\  first  was  connected  ■v^ith  the  system  of  management. 

^In  1752,  when  Erhardt  sailed,  Zinzendorf  had  laid 
down  the  general  principle  that  no  man,  at  the  same 


808        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

time,  should  be  both  a  trader  and  a  missionary. 
If  he  traded,  he  must  not  preach  the  Gospel  ;  if  he 
preached  the  Gospel,  he  must  not  trade  ;  and  the 
Brethren  afterwards  made  the  painful  discovery 
that  whether  they  followed  or  rejected  his  advice 
they  had  special  difficulties  to  face.  If  a  layman 
took  charge,  the  trade  was  mismanaged  ;  and  if  a 
missionary  took  charge,  the  Eskimos  ceased  to  love 
him.  Each  system  had  its  defects  ;  and,  therefore, 
the  Brethren  changed  from  one  to  the  other.  First 
(1771-1861)  the  missionaries  had  full  control ;  then 
(1861-1876)  the  trade  was  placed  under  a  General 
Manager,  with  a  layman  at  the  head  of  each  store  ; 
then  (1876-1898)  the  missionaries  resumed  control ; 
then  (1898-1906)  a  layman  was  appointed  as  General 
Manager,  while  a  missionary  managed  each  store  ; 
and  finally,  1906,  the  law  was  laid  down  that  trade 
and  mission  should  be  kept  strictly  apart.  For  the 
former  the  S.F.G.  was  responsible  ;  for  the  latter 
the  Mission  Board  ;  and  that  is  the  system  still  in 
force. 

The  other  cause  of  trouble  was  the  Brethren's 
kindness.  For  some  years  there  existed  in  the 
minds  of  the  natives  a  remarkable  delusion,  spread 
first  by  certain  schooner-men,  that  while  the  S.F.G. 
claimed  to  be  a  trading  concern,  it  was,  in  reality, 
a  charity  ;  each  article  on  the  Harmony,  therefore, 
belonged  by  right  to  the  natives  ;  no  missionary 
had  any  right  to  charge  any  price  whatsoever  ;  and 
all  those  who  sold  goods  at  the  stores  were  mere 
robbers  and  swindlers.  At  last  the  danger  became 
so  serious  that  the  Mission  Secretary  (1888) 
was  sent  on  a  visitation ;  and  yet,  though 
he  explained  the  facts  of  the  case,  there  was  still 
so  much  suspicion  left  that,  next  year,  at  Hebron, 
the  people  even  blockaded  the  school-house  and 
held   the   missionaries   prisoners.     By   slow   degrees 


I 


Labrador.  809 

the  truth  prevailed  ;  the  missionaries  regained  the 
people's  confidence  ;  and  the  people  excused  their 
evil  conduct  by  saying  that  if  they  had  been  more 
efficiently  taught  they  would  not  have  sinned  so 
deeply.  "  If  you  had  prayed  for  us  properly," 
said  Nathan,  the  ringleader,  "  all  these  troubles 
would  have  been  spared  you  !  " 

4.     The  Hospital,  1904—1914. 

For  some  reason  best  known  to  the  medical  pro- 
fession, the  Eskimos  are  so  constituted  that,  while 
they  still  live  on  wholesome  food,  spend  most  of  their 
time  in  the  open  air,  and  generally  develop  a  power- 
ful muscular  system,  yet  they  have  no  power  to 
resist  disease  ;  in  their  case  all  the  infectious  diseases, 
such  as  influenza  and  measles,  are  nearly  always 
fatal ;  and  the  only  way  to  preserve  the  race  from 
destruction  is  to  shield  it  from  infection. 

But  that  was  precisely  what  was  found  impossible. 
During  the  whole  of  the  nineteenth  century  Labrador 
was  repeatedly  visited  by  British,  French,  and 
American  traders  ;  these  men  introduced  influenza, 
erysipelas,  measles,  pneumonia  and  syphilis  ;  and, 
finally,  in  1894,  after  certain  Eskimos  had  visited  the 
Chicago  Exhibition,  there  broke  out,  at  Nain,  a  terrible 
epidemic  of  typhus.  Nor  was  infection  the  only 
cause  of  trouble.  Some  of  the  traders  paid  in 
whisky  and  rum  ;  others  sold  European  food  and 
clothing ;  and  those  who  succumbed  to  these 
temptations  became  still  less  able  to  resist  disease. 

Formerly,  the  mothers  had  nursed  their  children  ; 
now,  fed  on  condensed  milk,  the  children  perished 
untimely.  Formerly,  Labrador  resembled  Dartmoor  ; 
now  Labrador  had  become  a  death-trap ;  and 
little  had  been  done  to  remedy  the  evil.  Dr.  Grenfell, 
of  the  Deep  Sea  Mission,  paid  occasional  visits  ; 
Louis  Kaestner  administered  simple  remedies  ;  and 


310        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Hettasch,  who  had  studied  at  Livingstone  College, 
performed  minor  operations.  In  spite  of  all  this 
excellent  work,  the  situation  in  Labrador  was 
desperate.  Epidemics  were  now  more  common  than 
ever  ;  sanitation  was  unknown  ;  and  the  population 
had  dwindled  to  1,200. 

During  the  winter  of  1903-4,  therefore,  the  Brethren 
built  a  small  hospital  at  Okak ;  Dr.  and  Mrs.  S.  K. 
Hutton  were  placed  in  charge;  and  during  their 
eight  years  in  Labrador,  Dr.  Hutton  not  only 
gained  the  confidence  of  the  people,  to  whom  he 
was  known  as  "  Our  Samuel,"  but  also  succeeded 
in  introducing  several  necessary  reforms.  His  work 
was  partly  medical  and  partly  hygienic.  During 
the  first  seven  months  he  paid  over  a  thousand 
visits  and  dealt  with  137  patients  at  the 
hospital.  The  amount  of  disease  was  enormous. 
At  Okak  there  was  a  bad  form  of  influenza ;  at 
Hebron  typhus  ;  at  Nain  and  Hopedale  pneumonia. 
In  due  time  Dr.  Hutton  saw  every  man  and  woman 
on  the  coast.  In  the  winter  he  generally  used  a 
dog-sledge ;  in  the  summer,  after  1908,  he  used  a 
motor-boat,  the  Northern  Star ;  and  visiting  the 
people  in  their  huts,  he  obtained  such  a  knowledge 
of  Eskimo  life  that  his  book,  "  Among  the  Eskimos 
of  Labrador,"  written  after  he  was  compelled  to  retire, 
may  be  described  as  a  classic.^ 

But  Dr.  Hutton  was  no  mere  medical  practitioner  ; 
his  main  purpose  was  to  enlighten  the  people ; 
and,  therefore,  while  he  urged  the  men  to  build 
larger  houses  of  wood  and  turf,  he  also  carefully 
instructed  the  women  to  keep  them  clean,  not  to 

•j-On  the  value  of  Dr.  Hutton'a  work,  Dr.  W.  G.  Grenfell  wrote  as 
follows :  "Dr.  Hutton  has  re.ally  done  wonders,  and  a  well-known 
Boston  surgeon,  who  is  with  me  for  the  summer,  was  very 
much  surprised  to  know  what  serious  operations  the  doctor 
liad  und-'itakon  sinjile-handed  and  yet  successfully."  — 
"Periodical  Accounts,"  March,   1908,  p.   12. 


Labrador.  311 

hide  refuse  under  the  bed,  and  always  to  remember 
to  scald  their  feeding-bottles.  His  main  policy 
was  based  on  scientific  principles.  Let  the 
Eskimo,  he  said,  remain  an  Eskimo ;  let  him 
eat  his  Eskimo  food,  wear  his  Eskimo  dress, 
and  hunt  and  fish  like  his  forefathers ;  and, 
above  all,  let  no  Eskimo  be  tempted  to  attend 
Exhibitions,  such  as  those  held  at  Chicago,  Berlin  and 
Paris.  As  a  result  of  this  latter  practice,  he  said, 
many  an  Eskimo  had  already  suffered  incalculable 
damage.  Some  had  become  immoral ;  immorality 
caused  syphilis  ;  and  syphilis,  if  unchecked,  might 
soon  exterminate  the  nation.  In  all  these  schemes  of 
reform  Dr.  Hutton  was  warmly  supported  by  Sir 
William  MacGregor,  the  Governor  of  Newfoundland  ; 
some  of  the  Eskimos  acted  on  the  doctor's  advice, 
and  before  he  left  he  was  able  to  report  a  slight 
decUne  in  the  death-rate. 

5.     The  Settlers,  1851—1914. 

For  the  special  benefit  of  English  settlers  living  on 
the  strip  of  coast  south  of  Hopedale,  and  at  the 
request  of  one  Smith,  a  Hudson's  Bay  Company 
official,  the  Brethren,  in  1851,  began  holding  services 
at  Rigolette  ;  then,  for  a  brief  period,  James  O'Hara 
acted  as  authorised  missionary  to  the  settlers  ;  and 
finally,  in  1895,  at  the  special  request  of  James 
Wilson,  a  Hudson's  Bay  Company  factor,  they 
founded  a  proper  station  named  Makkovik.  In  spite 
of  the  fact  that  the  settlers  were  English,  this  work 
was  genuine  missionary  work.  Most  of  the  settlers 
could  neither  read  nor  write ;  many,  of  course,  had 
married  Eskimo  women  ;  and  both  the  pure  English 
and  the  half-breeds  were  morally  inferior  to  the 
Eskimos.  At  Hopedale,  the  Brethren  opened  a 
boarding-school,  where  a  few  settlers'  children  were 
educated ;  and  English  services  were  held  in  the  Church 


312        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

for  visiting  schooner-men.  But  this  work  was  not 
an  unmixed  blessing.  In  return  for  the  Brethren's 
favours,  some  of  the  schooner-men  became  good 
Christians  ;  others,  however,  taught  the  Eskimos  to 
gamble  ;  and  the  local  Church  Elders,  in  1903,  had  to 
pass  special  laws  to  check  the  evil. 

6.  The  Fruit. 
Among  the  English  visitors  to  Labrador,  the  most 
distinguished  was  the  late  Major  Hesketh  Prichard, 
F.R.G.S.,  author  of  "  Through  Trackless  Labrador  " 
and  of  "The  Adventures  of  Don  Q";  and,  giving 
vent  to  his  enthusiasm  in  the  columns  of  Chambers^ 
Journal,'\  Major  Prichard  asserted  that  the  coast 
of  Labrador  was,  on  the  whole,  the  most  God-fearing 
coast  he  had  ever  visited.  This  result,  he  said,  had 
been  produced,  partly  by  the  Moravian  Church 
and  partly  by  the  Deep  Sea  Mission ;  and 
the  purpose  of  this  short  section  is  simply  to 
show  in  what  sense  and  to  what  extent,  as 
far  as  the  Eskimos  are  concerned,  Mr.  Prichard's 
statement  is  justified.  Let  us  not  regard  the  Eskimo 
as  a  dull  person.  By  nature  he  is  still  argumentative, 
proud,  choleric,  affectionate,  sensual,  humorous ; 
charming  varieties  of  character  exist  as  much  as 
in  Shakespeare's  plays ;  and  those  Eskimos  who 
have  travelled  abroad — even  those  who  have  seen 
Chicago  and  Paris — maintain  that  lonely  Labrador 
is  the  finest  country ,  in  the  world.  Christianity 
has  not  made  them  Europeans.  Christianity  has 
made  them  Christian  Eskimos. 

(1)  First,  then,  the  Eskimos  honour  God  and 
keep  Sunday  holy.  With  the  exception  of  a 
few  heathen  at  Killinek,  the  Eskimos  of  Labrador 
are  now   genuine   Christians  ;     most  of  them  would 

fSeventh  Series,  Vol.  I.,  August  fith  and  12th,  1911.     "Heroes 
of  the  Labrador," 


Labrador.  313 

probably  pass  an  examination  in  the  four  Gospels  ; 
and  many,  by  hearing  the  Bible  read  at  week-night 
meetings,  have  acquired  a  knowledge  of  its  contents 
which  would  put  some  di\anity  students  to  shame. 
In  the  summer  the  Eskimos  are  away  hunting ;  in  the 
winter  they  reside  at  the  stations  ;  and  the  Church, 
on  a  winter  Sunday  morning,  is  always  crowded. 
At  nine  a.m.  there  is  the  Church  Litany  ;  at  ten  a 
public  service,  with  sermon ;  in  the  afternoon  a 
missionary  address  ;  and  in  the  evening  a  singing 
meeting.  Most  of  the  Eskimos  are  attentive  listeners  ; 
only  occasionally  someone  sleeps  during  the  sermon  ; 
and  some  even  take  notes  and  discuss  the  subject. 
In  musical  matters  they  maintain  a  high  standard. 
Formerly,  in  their  heathen  days,  they  could  merely 
howl.  Now  they  revel  in  Moravian  Chorales.  Both 
old  and  young  sing  correctly  in  parts  ;  Nain  and 
Okak  possess  fine  brass  bands ;  and  some  have 
mastered  the  violin  and  'cello.  At  most  of  the 
ser\'ices  an  Eskimo  plays  the  harmonium ;  bhnd 
Jeremiah,  of  Okak,  rendered  classical  selections ; 
and  Nathaniel,  a  schoolmaster  at  Nain,  composed  an 
anthem.  Nor  is  music  confined  to  religious  worship. 
On  his  journeys  Dr.  Hutton  often  heard  singing  in 
the  huts.  Patients  sang  in  the  hospital ;  drivers 
sang  on  their  sledges ;  fishermen  sang  in  their 
boats  ;  and  villagers  sped  the  parting  guest  with 
"  God  be  with  you  till  we  meet  again." 

(2)  Again,  the  Eskimos  have  learned  the  art  of 
self-government.  For  practical  purposes,  Labrador 
may  be  described  as  a  Christian  Theocracy.  As  the 
Jews  revered  the  law  of  Moses,  so  the  Eskimos 
revere  the  Bible ;  and  taking  the  Bible  as  their 
Statute  Book,  they  assume  that  whatever  is  there 
forbidden  is  wicked.  Each  congregation  elects  a 
Committee  of  Elders  ;  these  Elders  keep  law  and  order 
in  the  village  ;    and  magistrates  and  policemen  are 


314        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

not  required.  No  murders  or  thefts  are  now  com- 
mitted ;  quarrels  are  settled,  not  in  a  law  court,  but 
by  the  missionary  or  Elders  ;  and  the  missionaries 
can  retire  to  rest  without  locking  their  doors. 

(3)  Again,  the  Eskimos  are  now  all  total  abstainers. 
For  this  fact  we  must  give  the  credit,  partly  to  the 
Government  for  forbidding  the  sale  of  liquor,  partly 
to  the  missionaries  who  inspired  the  Government, 
and  partly  to  the  Eskimo  Elders  at  Okak.  In  1907 
certain  Eskimos  made  some  home-brewed  beer ; 
the  Eskimo  Elders  heard  about  the  enormity  ;  and 
so  irresistible  was  their  influence  that  all  the  kegs 
were  broken  open  and  all  the  liquor  poured  out  on 
the  snow. 

(4)  Again,  the  Eskimos  have  learned  to  take  some 
interest  in  literature,  science,  and  general  know- 
ledge. At  the  day  schools  the  children  learn  not 
only  reading,  writing  and  arithmetic,  but  also  a 
little  geography  and  book-keeping.  Bible  lessons 
are  systematically  given ;  other  popular  classics 
are  "  The  Pilgrim's  Progress,"  "  Christy's  Old 
Organ,"  and  "  Jessica's  First  Prayer  "  ;  and  Bishop 
Martin,  the  Superintendent  of  the  Mission,  produces 
an  Annual  Register  entitled  "  Aglait  Illunainortut," 
i.e.,  "  Intelligence  for  Everyone,"  and  containing  a 
brief  account  of  the  main  political  events  of 
the   day. 

(5)  Again,  the  Eskimos,  though  civilised  and 
Christian,  are  still  genuine  Eskimos.  In  spite  of  the 
pernicious  influence  of  certain  traders,  the  Eskimos 
eat  the  same  kind  of  food  and  wear  the  same  kind 
of  dress,  as  their  forefathers.  Still,  as  of  old,  they 
ply  the  kayak,  drive  the  sledge-dogs,  lance  the  seal, 
and  trap  the  fox  ;  still,  as  of  old,  the  patient  women, 
so  that  their  husbands  may  have  good  boots,  chew 
shoe-leather    all    day ;     and    still,    as    of   old,    the 


Labrador.  815 

fearless  boys  slide  down  the  snow-clad  hills,  and  punt 
on  the  broken  ice. 

(6)  Above  all,  the  Eskimos  of  Labrador  have  learned 
to  understand  the  deep  meaning  of  Christmas.  Dr. 
S.  K.  Hutton  once  said  that  a  Labrador  Christmas 
is  a  good  remedy  for  pessimism.  Some  years  ago  he 
described  such  a  Christmas  in  the  Pall  Mall  Magazine; 
and  the  best  way  to  understand  the  Eskimos  is  to 
use  our  imaginations  a  little  and  spend  a  Christmas 
in  their  company.  The  scene  opens  about  a  week 
before  Christmas.  The  huntsmen  are  home  from 
the  hills;  the  bandsmen  are  practising  carols;  the 
boys  are  dragging  logs  across  the  snow  ;  and  the 
women,  inside  their  houses,  are  scrubbing  the 
floor,  dusting  the  harmonium,  and  polishing  the 
pictures  on  the  wall. 

On  December  23rd  the  final  preparations  are  made. 
In  the  store  the  husband  drives  his  bargain.  For 
himself  he  obtains  some  tobacco,  notepaper  and 
envelopes  ;  for  his  wife  and  girls  some  aprons  and 
ribbons ;  for  his  boys  mouth-organs,  hammers 
and  saws ;  for  his  table,  tea,  molasses,  rice,  peas  and 
biscuits  ;  for  his  Christmas  tree  some  toys  and 
lanterns.  Meanwhile,  his  wife  has  been  busy  in  the 
hut.  On  the  shelf  stand  her  cups,  glasses  and  orna- 
ments ;  the  floor  is  strewn  with  red  sand  ;  and  in  one 
corner  stands  the  "  Bethlehem." 

On  Christmas  Eve,  at  four  o'clock,  the  whole  village 
meets  in  the  Church  for  the  Christmas  Lovefcast. 
Along  the  walls  shine  rows  of  lighted  candles.  The 
prevailing  colour  is  white.  The  walls  are  white  as 
snow  ;  the  people  wear  white  siila-paks  ;  and  the 
missionaries  wear  white  seal-skin  coats.  In  the 
front  are  the  children  ;  at  the  back  the  parents  ; 
and  in  the  middle,  the  infirm  and  aged,  seated  on 
reindeer  skins.  The  opening  h\Tnn  is  sung ;  the 
story  of  the  birth  of  Christ  is  read  ;    and  the  choir 


316        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

and  orchestra  render  a  Christmas  anthem.  At  the 
close  of  the  service  a  church  official  enters  bearing 
candles  placed  in  turnips  ;  these  candles  the  children 
place  on  their  biscuits  ;  and  all  now  wend  their  way 
home  rejoicing.  In  the  evening  the  adults  visit 
each  other ;  Christmas  trees  are  criticised  and 
admired  ;  and  the  chief  topic  of  discussion  is  who 
has  constructed  the  most  beautiful  "  Bethlehem." 

On  Christmas  Day  every  hour  is  fully  occupied. 
In  the  morning  there  is  public  worship ;  in  the 
afternoon  the  missionaries  visit  the  people  ;  and  in 
the  evening  the  people  return  the  compliment. 
At  last  the  day  closes,  and  quiet  reigns  in  the  village. 
For  the  first  time  the  missionary  and  his  wife  can 
think  a  little  about  their  own  affairs,  and  wistfully 
their  minds  turn  to  children  far  away  at  school  in 
the  Homeland.  But  to  the  Eskimos  Christmas 
brings  joy  unalloyed.  The  Eskimos  have  their  own 
name  for  Christmas  Day.  They  call  it  simply 
"  His  Birthday " ;  and  everybody  knows  whose 
birthday  is  meant.  "  On  this  day  many  years  ago," 
they  say,  "  Jesus  the  Mighty  became  as  poor  as  an 
Eskimo."t 

fAn  exploded  legend.  In  hia  recent  volume,  "A  Labrador  Doctor" 
(Hodder  &  Stoughton),  p.  90,  Dr.  W.  T.  Grenfell  repeats  as  a  fact 
the  old  legend  that  "  as  the  Eskimos  had  never  seen  a  lamb  or 
a  sheep,  either  alive  or  in  a  picture,  the  Moravians,  in  order 
to  offer  them  an  intelligible  and  appealing  simile,  had  most 
wisely  substituted  the  kolik,  or  white  seal,  for  the  phrase 
'  the  Lamb  of  God.'  "  Dr.  Grenfell  is  quite  mistaken.  There 
is  not  one  word  of  truth  in  the  story.  The  Moravian 
missionaries  solved  tlie  problem  by  showing  a  picture  of 
a  lamb ;  and  the  Eskimo  expression  used —  "  Gudeb 
Saugarsunga  " — means  "  God,  His  Lamb."  See  "  Periodical 
Accounts,"  December,  1893,  p.  221.  The  Eskimo  word  for 
sheep  is  saugak ;  for  lamb,  saugarsik ;  and  for  seal,  puije. 
See  Friedrich  Erdmann's  Eskimo  Dictionary. 


BOOK  III. 


THE  MODERN  ADVANCE,   1848—1914. 


CHAPTER  PAGB 

1.  Nicaragua,  1849-1914 321 

2.  Victoria,  1849-1905 346 

3.  Western  Tibet,  1853-1914 357 

4.  The     Leper     Home     at     Jerusalem, 

1867-1914 374 

5.  Demerara,  1878-1914 388 

6.  Alaska,  1885-1914 394 

7.  CALiroRNiA,  1889-1914 408 

8.  North  Qlteexsland,  1891-1914     .     .     .  416 

9.  East      Central      Africa  :        Nyassa, 

1891-1914 437 

10.    East    Central   Africa  :     Unyamwezi, 

1898-1914 452 


IsTBODUOTOBY   NoTr. — For  the  special  canaes  leading  to  the 
Modem  Advance,  see  Book  TV.,  Chapter  II.,  p.  476. 


319) 


Chapter  I. 

NICARAGUA,  1849—1914. 

1.     The    Bluefields    Experiment,    1849 — 1855. 

Let  us  first  understand  the  political  situation.  For 
nearly  two  hundred  years  before  the  first 
Mora\'ian  missionaries  arrived,  the  little  independent 
kingdom  of  Moskito — ruled  by  a  King  or  Chief 
residing  at  Bluefields,  inhabited  chiefly  by  Moskito 
Indians,  and  bounded  on  the  north  by  the  Wanks 
River,  on  the  west  by  the  Gold  Field  Hills,  on  the  south 
by  the  San  Juan,  and  on  the  east  by  the  Caribbean 
Sea — had  managed  to  maintain  its  independence, 
not  because  it  possessed  a  powerful  army,  but 
because  it  was  under  the  special  protection  of  Great 
Britain.  By  treaty,  in  1655,  Moskito  became  a 
British  Protectorate  ;  by  another  treaty,  in  1720, 
some  kind  of  alliance  was  formed  between  the  King 
of  Moskito  and  the  Governor  of  Jamaica  ;  and  then, 
to  prove  that  she  was  as  good  as  her  word.  Great 
Britain,  in  1730,  established  three  small  military 
settlements  at  Cape  Gracias-a-Dios,  Bluefields, 
and  the  mouth  of  the  Black  River.  At  length 
Great  Britain  considered  it  necessary  to  take  still 
stronger  measures.  In  the  year  1836  Nicaragua 
captured  Greytown,  a  Moskito  town  a  few  miles  south 
of  Bluefields  ;  five  years  later  Colonel  MacDonaldi 
Governor  of  British  Honduras,  re-captured  Gre\i;own 
and  restored  it  to  Moskito  ;  and  when  Nicaragua 
protested,  Great  Britain  pohtely,  but  firmly,  informed 
her  that  she  would  maintain  the  integrity  of  Moskito, 
not  only  against  Nicaragua,  but  against  any  other 
power  that  had  the  audacity  to  attack  her.  The 
result  was  natural.  The  more  Great  Britain  did  for 
Moskito,  the  more  popular  were  Britons  in  the  country, 

(321) 


322        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

and  Queen  Victoria  was  called  by  the  people  the 
"  Mother  of  the  Indians."  At  Bluefields,  the  capital, 
resided  the  British  Consul ;  Moskito  Kings  were  often 
crowned  in  the  presence  of  British  officials  at  Belize, 
in  British  Honduras  ;  and  now  one  King,  Robert 
Charles  Frederick  (1824-1842),  showed  his  gratitude 
in  a  very  strange  manner.  For  some  reason  which 
has  never  been  fully  explained,  this  King  seems  to 
have  been  under  the  impression  that  Great  Britain 
was  a  teetotal  country ;  he  himself,  though  fond  of 
the  bottle,  desired  to  see  his  subjects  total  abstainers  ; 
and,  thinking  that  if  a  few  Britons  would  settle  in 
Moskito,  they  would  teach  his  people  the  dangers  of 
mischla,  he  granted  a  small  parcel  of  ground  to  two 
British  officers,  Henry  Willock  and  Arthur  Alexander. 

1841  His  conduct  was  much  discussed.  Some  said  that 
he  was  mad  ;  others  that  he  was  drunk  ;  and  others 
that  he  shewed  the  wisdom  of  Solomon.  The  two 
officers  were  in  a  quandary.  In  order  not  to  offend 
the  King,  they  accepted  his  gift ;  but,  having  no  capital 
to  work  it,  they  determined  to  sell  it.  The  result  was 
unexpected.  First  they  tried,  but  in  vain,  to  find 
purchasers  in  England  ;  then  they  offered  it  to  two 
German  noblemen,  Charles  of  Prussia  and  the  Prince 
of  Schonberg-Waldenburg ;  and  the  latter,  who  had 
long  been  a  friend  of  Moravian  Missions,  suggested 
to  the  Moravian  Mission  Board  that  the  time  had  come 
for  a  Mission  to  the  Moskito  Indians.  In  response 
to  this  suggestion,  the  Mission  Board  asked  two 
Jamaica  missionaries,  Andrew  Reinke  and  Henry 
Pfeiffer,  to  make  preliminary  inquiries.  Once  more 
British  officials  played  an  important  part  in  the 
transactions.  Lord  Palmerston,  the  Prime  Minister, 
gave  the  two  missionaries  a  letter  of  introduction. 

1847  At  Bluefields  (April  18th,  1847)  they  had  a  most 
encouraging  reception.  Patrick  Walker,  the  British 
Consul,  promised  to  support  the  Mission ;  Fawcett,  an 


Nicaragua.  828 

Anglican  clergjTnan,  found  them  a  lodging  ;  and  the 
King  of  Moskito,  George  Frederick  (1842-1865), 
offered  land  for  a  Church,  and  begged  that  a  Mission 
might  be  estabhshed  forthwith.  Next  year  (1848) 
there  met  at  Hermhut  a  General  Moravian  SjTiod  ; 
by  that  Synod  a  Mission  to  Moskito  was  authorised  ; 
and  early  in  1849  (March  14th)  Pfeiffer,  accompanied 
by  two  colleagues,  arrived  once  more  at  Bluefields. 

The  campaign  began  with  a  mistake  in  policy. 
For  three  or  four  years  Henry  Pfeiffer  showed,  1849 
that  while  he  had  been  a  good  pastor  in  Jamaica, 
he  was  not  an  ideal  missionary  pioneer  ;  and  acting 
as  though  he  were  still  in  a  Christian  country,  where 
people  were  in  the  habit  of  attending  Church,  he 
devoted  his  main  attention  to  the  Royal  Family, 
confined  his  efforts  to  Bluefields,  used  the  Court- 
house for  Sunday  services,  and  arranged,  for  the 
benefit  of  the  citizens,  an  elaborate  series  of  meetings. 
On  Sundays  there  were  at  least  three  ser\'ices — 
public  worship,  an  inquirers'  meeting,  and  a  homily ; 
on  Monday  evening  a  prayer  meeting  ;  on  Tuesday 
an  address  ;  on  Friday  a  Bible  exposition  ;  and 
on  Saturday  a  singing  meeting.  For  this  policy 
Pfeiffer  could  give  a  good  reason.  He  was  acting 
like  some  of  the  earliest  preachers  in  England  ;  his 
main  hopes  seem  to  have  rested  on  the  Royal  Family  ; 
and  to  judge  from  his  reports,  he  appears  to  have 
thought  that  if  he  could  convert  the  Royal  Family 
the  rest  of  the  people  would  soon  follow  their  example. 
Among  Pfeiffer's  best  supporters  was  Christie,  the 
British  Consul,  and,  acting  on  Christie's  ad\'ice, 
Pfeiffer  gave  the  King  two  hours'  daily  instruction,  and 
took  in  his  three  sisters  as  boarders.  At  first  his  policy 
seemed  justified.  For  some  months  the  King  him- 
self not  only  attended  the  services,  but  even  joined 
a  Sunday  School  class  ;  one  of  his  sisters  acted  as 
monitor ;    and  Pfeiffer,  therefore,  fondly  hoped  that 


824        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

in   a  few  months  the  Royal   Family  would   adopt 
the  Christian  religion. 

For     the     following     reasons,     however,    Pfeiffer 
had  little  success  : — 

(a)  The  King  was  a  weak  and  disappointing 
character.  For  a  few  weeks  he  would  be 
both  pious  and  sober ;  then  he  would  turn 
to  the  bottle  again ;  and  his  people, 
observing  his  conduct,  drew  their  own  con- 
clusions. "  I  notice,"  said  an  Indian  to 
Pfeiffer,  "  that  those  who  attend  your 
Church  are  no  better  than  those  who  stay 
at  home." 

{b)  By  conducting  the  services  in  English,  which, 
at  first,  of  course,  he  was  compelled  to  do, 
Pfeiffer  gave  the  people  the  impression  that 
he  was  preaching  about  a  foreign  God.  "  The 
English,"  said  the  Indians,  "  have  a  book 
which  speaks  of  God,  and,  therefore,  they 
know  more  of  God  than  we  do.  God  loves 
the  English  only  ;  He  takes  no  notice  of 
the  Indians." 

(c)  At  Bluefields  most  of  the  inhabitants  were 
either  Negroes  or  Creoles  ;  these  Negroes 
and  Creoles  despised  the  Indians  ;  and  the 
Indians  refused  to  attend  a  Church  where, 
in  all  probability,  they  would  be  insulted. 
For  this  simple  reason,  therefore,  Pfeiffer 
had  little  influence  over  the  Indians.  His 
first  convert,  Mary  Waters,  was  a  negress  ; 
and  the  only  Indian  whom  he  baptized 
was  the  Princess  Matilda  (June  6th,  1855). 

{d)  By  his  Christian  ideals  of  conduct  Pfeiffer 
disgusted  the  Indians.  At  Christmas,  each 
year,  they  amused  themselves  by  dancing 
and  drinking  ;   Pfeiffer  even  saw  them  lying 


Nicaragua.  825 

drunk   in   the   street ;     and   the    more    he 
rebuked  them,  the  more  they  hated  him. 

(e)  By  distributing  medicines  to  the  sick,  Pfeiffer 
aroused  the  hostility  of  the  soukias,  or 
medicine  men.  Let  one  example  suffice.  At 
one  time,  when  measles  broke  out,  a 
mother  brought  her  child  to  Pfeiffer  for 
treatment.  As  the  mother  took  his  advice, 
the  child  began  to  recover ;  then  a  soukia 
arrived  on  the  scene  and  washed  the 
patient  in  some  native  concoction ;  and 
then,  when  the  child  died,  the  soukia 
denounced  Pfeiffer  as  a  murderer. 

(/)  By  his  overbearing  conduct  Pfeiffer  offended 
his  two  colleagues ;  the  Mission  Board, 
hearing  about  the  trouble,  sent  one  of  their 
members  to  investigate  ;  and,  finally,  the 
Board  decided  that  Pfeiffer  had  better 
retire. 

Let  us  not,  however,  criticise  Pfeiffer  too  severely. 
In  due  time  he  discovered  his  own  mistake.  Four 
times  he  himself  visited  English  Bank  and  the  Pearl 
Lagoon  ;  there  he  not  only  preached  to  the  Indians, 
but,  taking  the  King  with  him,  chose  a  site  for  a 
church  ;  and  finally,  he  himself  suggested  that,  if 
the  missionaries  expected  any  success,  they  must 
no  longer  remain  at  Bluefields,  but  advance  steadily 
northwards  along  the  coast. 

Meanwhile,  a  most  important  political  event  had  1850 
occurred.  At  the  time  when  Pfeiffer  arrived  at  Blue- 
fields,  Moskito  was  still  a  British  Protectorate ; 
U'^w,  by  the  Clayton-Bulwer  Treaty  (1850)  Great 
Britain  abandoned  her  role  of  protector ;  and 
henceforward,  though  still  independent,  Moskito  had 
to  fight  her  own  battles.  In  the  past  the  King  of 
Moskito,  supported  by  British  prestige,  had  a  certain 


326        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

amount  of  authority  ;  now  he  was  Httle  more  than 
a  figure-head.  In  the  past  he  had  ruled  over  a  more 
or  less  united  kingdom  ;  now  he  was  the  titular 
monarch  of  several  independent  tribes ;  and  the 
Brethren  very  soon  discovered  that  no  such  thing 
as  a  real  government  existed.  Each  tribe  managed 
its  own  affairs  ;  each  tribe,  if  it  obeyed  any  one, 
obeyed  its  own  chief ;  and  each  tribe  was  still 
untouched  by  the  Gospel.  Along  the  coast  lived 
the  Moskito  Indians,  who,  having  Negro  blood 
in  their  veins,  excelled  their  neighbours  both  in 
physical  and  in  intellectual  vigour ;  among  the 
western  hills,  the  Sumus  ;  on  the  island  of  Ramah 
Key,  the  Ramahs ;  and,  dotted  about  in  small 
groups,  the  Conkras,  Woolwas,  Towkas,  Tongulas, 
Payas,  and  Caribs. 

Let  us  now  take  a  brief  glance  at  these  people. 
At  the  time  when  the  first  Brethren  arrived,  all  the 
Indians  in  Moskito  were  as  heathen,  as  benighted, 
as  wretched,  and  as  superstitious  as  the  Bush  Negroes 
of  Surinam. 

In  matters  industrial,  the  people  were  still  very 
primitive.  As  the  land  was  remarkably  fertile,  most 
of  the  men  were  lazy  ;  day  after  day  they  lounged  in 
hammocks,  smoking,  gossiping,  telling  stories,  and 
exclaiming  "  All  lies,  but  lovely  all  the  same  "  ;  and 
while  they  were  splendid  swimmers,  paddlers,  riders, 
fish-hunters,  and  marksmen,  they  had  no  idea  of  the 
meaning  of  agriculture.  Polygamy  was  still  the  usual 
practice.  Among  the  Moskitos  each  wife  had  a 
separate  home,  among  the  Sumus  they  all  lived 
under  one  roof ;  and  the  curious  feature  in  every 
household  was  that,  while  the  husband  lived  with 
his  mother-in-law,  he  addressed  her,  not  directly, 
face  to  face,  but  by  making  remarks  to  the  children 
or  chickens.  For  this  custom,  said  the  Sumu  Indians, 
there  was  a  religious  reason.     In  the  beginning  two 


Nicaragua.  827 

Gods — Ulnibapot,  the  sun,  and  Udo,  the  moon — 
created  the  heaven  and  the  earth.  Each  of  these 
gods  married  a  woman  ;  each  had  a  mother-in-law  ; 
and  each,  finding  that  mother-in-law  a  nuisance, 
punished  her,  at  stated  seasons,  by  going  into  echpse. 
Mothers-in-law  were  a  trouble  even  in  heaven ; 
mothers-in-law  caused  echpses  ;  and  no  self-respecting 
man  could   address   such  contemptible  creatures. 

In  the  Indian  religion  the  chief  feature  was  the 
worship  of  evil  spirits.  Above  all  other  gods,  some 
said,  there  was  one  Supreme  Spirit,  Won  Aisa,  i.e.y 
"  Our  Father " ;  this  Supreme  Spirit,  however, 
did  not  interfere  in  human  affairs  ;  and  the  real 
actors  in  everyday  life  were  Waiwin  Tara,  the 
land  spirit ;  Liwa  Tara,  the  water  spirit ;  Prakahu, 
the  air  spirit ;  and  a  vast  host  of  evil  spirits,  or  Ulassa. 
Each  of  these  was  man's  malignant  enemy. 
Waiwin  caused  the  drought ;  Liwa  upset  the  canoes 
and  drove  away  fish  ;  Prakahu  raised  the  hurricanes  ; 
and  the  Ulassa  caused  diseases.  Against  these  dread- 
ful Ulassa  only  the  soukias,  or  sorcerers,  had  any 
power.  Among  the  Moskitos,  the  soukia  used  two 
methods.  The  first  was  the  whisthng  cure.  With 
his  hammock  slung  up  near  the  patient's  bed,  he 
first  whistled  a  luring  air  ;  then  he  groaned,  sighed 
and  stormed;  and  then,  rushing  forward  with  his 
hand  over  a  calabash,  he  shouted  triumphantly, 
"  I've  got  him,"  and  explained  that  he  had  just 
caught  the  evil  spirit.  For  this  feat  he  charged 
a  fee  varying  from  10s.  to  £4  ;  and,  money  not  being 
much  used,  the  fee  was  paid  in  kind.  The  other 
cure  was  the  water-cure.  By  blowing  at  a  trough 
of  water  through  a  bamboo  pipe,  the  soukia  endowed 
it  with  medicinal  powers  ;  and,  if  the  patient  bathed 
therein,  he  was  almost  certain  to  receive  some 
benefit.  Among  the  Sumus,  the  soukia  used  three 
cotton   dolls.     The   first   was    Asampalka,    the    evil 


S^8        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

spirit,  the  second,  Asampalka's  councillor,  and  the 
third,  Asampalka's  jailer.  Each  of  these  two  last 
dolls  was  sprinkled  with  blood  ;  each,  being  now 
appeased,  came  to  the  patient's  rescue ;  and  the 
jailer,  acting  on  the  councillor's  advice,  seized 
on  Asampalka  and  carried  him  off.  In  cases  of 
failure,  the  soukia  had  always  the  same  answer. 
Some  human  enemy  had  caused  the  death,  and  that 
enemy  must  forthwith  be  slain.  Thus  did  the 
soukias,  as  in  Surinam,  create  a  reign  of  terror. 

Amid  these  terrors  the  Indians  derived 
some  consolation  from  their  belief  in  immortality  ; 
and  for  that  belief  they  gave  a  beautiful 
reason.  Each  man,  after  death,  they  said,  had  a 
long  and  dangerous  journey  before  him.  For  this 
reason  his  clothes  and  weapons  were  generally  buried 
with  him ;  above  his  grave  was  a  little  wooden 
house,  well-stocked  with  food ;  and  the  women 
chanted  the  death- wail,  "  Alas  !  I'll  never  see  your 
face  again, "f  But  that  sentence  referred  to  this 
world  only.  According  to  a  widespread  Indian 
legend,  there  lived,  many  years  ago,  a  certain  man 
who,  being  haunted  by  the  ghost  of  his  wife,  deter- 
mined to  seek  her  in  the  next  world  ;  and  so,  leaving 
his  body  to  hang  on  a  tree,  he  crossed  a  broad  lagoon 
on  the  back  of  a  frog,  escaped  the  cruel  teeth  of  some 
raging  dogs,  and,  passing  safely  between  two  trees 
which  crushed  all  murderers  to  death,  reached  the 
bright  green  fields  of  the  heavenly  land.  There  he 
saw  splendid  horses  roaming  among  the  trees ; 
there  he  also  saw  the  goddess  Japtimisire,  Queen 
of  the  Spiritual  World.  Among  those  seated  on  her 
lap   was   his   wife.     Japtimisire,   however,   told   him 


=F==l: 


-3:1- 


^^^^ 


I'll    ne'er     see      thy       face      a    -     gain 


Nicaragua.  329 

that  he  had  come  too  soon,  and  being  rowed  back 
by  spirits  in  a  barrel,  he  re-crossed  the  lagoon,  re- 
entered his  body,  and  recounted  his  adventures. 

2.     The  First  Advance,  1855—1880. 

For  the  next  twenty-five  years  the  Brethren, 
while  keeping  Bluefields  as  their  headquarters,  made 
a  systematic  attempt  to  push  northwards  along  the 
coast ;  thereby  they  came  into  close  touch  with  the 
Indians,  and  one  of  their  most  delightful  discoveries 
was  that  while  the  Indians  were  by  nature  crafty, 
vindictive,  superstitious  and  fond  of  mischla,  yet, 
on  the  other  hand,  they  had  a  sense  of  gratitude, 
responded  quickly  to  kindness,  and  could  even  be 
touched  to  finer  spiritual  issues. 

The  first  station  was  at  Pearl  Lagoon,  and  received  1855 
the  name  Magdala.  The  first  missionary  here  was 
Jean  Paul  Jiirgensen,  a  Dane.  With  his  wife, 
twelve  shilUngs  in  his  pocket,  and  a  piece  of  salt-beef, 
he,  on  June  12th,  1855,  arrived  on  the  scene  ;  three 
days  later  there  broke  out  an  epidemic  of  cholera  ; 
and  Jiirgensen  rendered  such  splendid  medical  ser\'ice, 
boldly  \'isiting  all  the  patients  and  serving  out 
useful  drugs,  that  in  less  than  a  month  the  people 
adored  him,  attended  his  services  in  crowds,  and 
even  began  conducting  family  prayers.  The  station 
soon  became  a  hive  of  acti^'ity.  There,  assisted  by 
Peter  Blair,  an  eflBcient  Negro  assistant,  Grunewald 
prepared  the  first  Moskito  Dictionary  ;  there,  one 
memorable  Christmas  morning,  the  people  roused 
the  missionary  at  4  a.m.  and  compelled  him  to  rise 
from  his  bed  and  conduct  a  service ;  and  there, 
under  Augustus  Martin,  the  converts  learned  to 
teach  in  the  Sunday  School,  visit  the  sick,  settle 
disputes,  and  guide  the  missionary  on  his  journeys 
to  the  little  outlying  stations  at  Klukiunlaya, 
Reitapura,  Brown  Bank,  and  Canon  Bank.     With  the 


830        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

conduct  of  the  Magdala  Christians,  Martin  was 
positively  charmed.  In  1875  there  was  a  terrible 
hurricane,  whereby  the  station  was  destroyed. 
Forthwith,  by  free-will  labour,  the  converts  re-built 
the  Church  ;  those  who  had  food  shared  at  once  with 
the  destitute  ;  and  one  night,  Mrs.  Garth,  a  convert, 
knocking  at  the  missionary's  door,  offered  him  a 
share  of  her  cassava. 

"  But  why,"  asked  Martin,  "  have  you  brought  it 
by  night  ?  " 

"  Because  if  I   had   brought  it  in  the  day-time 
the  others  would  have  thought  I  was  rich.     But  the 
truth  is  my  harvest  is  destroyed  ;    only  a  little  is 
left ;   and  some  of  that  little  is  for  you.'* 
I860  The  second  station  was  named  Ephrata.     At  this 

place  Augustus  Martin  not  only  preached  the  Gospel, 
but  also  acted  as  magistrate,  kept  a  provision 
"  store,"  and  collected  money  for  the  Government ; 
and  thereby  he  discovered  how  the  Indians  tested 
the  truth  of  a  religion.  The  Indian  test  was  entirely 
practical.  Good  religions,  they  said,  produced  good 
characters  ;  bad  religions  produced  bad  characters  ; 
and  as  the  Christians  at  Ephrata  were  honest,  the 
Christian  rehgion  must  be  true.  For  this  reason, 
among  others,  Ephrata  soon  became  a  busy  centre  ; 
three  more  stations,  Bethany  (1864),  Kukulaya  (1871) 
and  Karata  (1875),  were  founded;  and  out-preaching 
places  were  also  established  at  Layasiksa,  Tapunlaya, 
Bawa  Baer,  Wounta,  and  Walpasiksa.  Nor  was 
this  the  whole  of  the  Brethren's  activities.  For 
five  years  (1869-74)  the  missionaries  made  great  use 
of  a  small  schooner,  the  Messenger  of  Peace,  pre- 
sented by  certain  young  people  in  the  American 
Province ;  Blair  and  Kandler  visited  fifty  places 
along  the  coast;  and  these  journeys  were  only 
abandoned  because,  in  1874,  the  schooner  was 
wrecked. 


Nicaragua.  331 

3.    The  Happy  Island,  1858—1878. 

Meanwhile  a  wonderful  series  of  events  had 
occurred.  For  the  long  period  of  twenty  years 
Jean  Paul  Jurgensen  devoted  all  his  energies  to  the 
Indians  on  the  island  of  Ramah  Key  ;  and  during 
those  years  he  turned  a  hell  of  iniquity  into  a  paradise 
of  joy.  At  first  the  people  seemed  hopeless.  The 
men  drank  rum  and  lounged  in  hammocks,  while  the 
women  did  all  the  hard  work ;  the  boys  ran  naked  ; 
and  the  baby  girls  were  often  murdered.  For  the  first 
few  days  after  his  arrival  Jurgensen  made  his  abode 
in  an  Indian  hut.  Pigs  grunted  under  the  floor ; 
vermin  attacked  him  in  his  bed  ;  and  the  people, 
regarding  him  as  an  enemy,  not  only  refused  to  sell 
him  fish  and  fruit,  but  sneered  when  he  began  to 
build  his  house. 

"  What  I  "  said  one  huge  idler,  '*  you  working  ?  " 

"Yes,"  replied  Jurgensen,  "for  this  purpose 
God  has  given  us  hands  ;  and  these  hands  of  mine 
shall  teach  you  a  wholesome  lesson." 

Let  us  now  see  how  Jiirgensen  kept  his  promise. 
He  adopted  three  methods  of  work. 

(a)  Trade  Regulations.  For  some  years  the  Ramah 
Key  Indians  had  been  in  the  habit  of  selling  their 
pork  at  Bluefields,  where,  having  spent  their  money 
in  drink,  they  ran  up  bills  at  the  grocers'  shops  ; 
and  now,  with  the  consent  of  the  Indians  them- 
selves, Jurgensen  interviewed  the  Bluefields  trades- 
men and  persuaded  them  to  pay  for  their  pork  in 
goods.  In  eight  years  he  freed  the  island  from  debt. 
Meanwhile,  he  himself  opened  a  shop  in  the  island  ; 
there,  in  return  for  fish  and  pork,  he  supphed  the 
people's  needs  ;  and  further,  ha\ing  discovered  oil 
on  the  island,  he  taught  the  natives  how  to  extract 
it,  sold  it  at  Greytown,  and  paid  them  the  value  in 
goods.     His   success    was    marrellous.     In  1857  the 


882        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Ramah  Key  Indians  were  steadily  being  ruined 
by  drink  and  debt ;  by  1877  they  were  sober  and 
prosperous ;  and  all  the  natives  now  saw  that 
Jiirgensen  was  their  best  friend. 

(6)  Law  and  Order.  In  spite  of  the  fact  that, 
technically  speaking,  Ramah  Key  belonged  to  the 
kingdom  of  Moskito,  Jiirgensen,  with  the  King's 
permission,  made  the  island  independent ;  and, 
having  won  the  goodwill  of  the  people,  he  made  such 
laws  as  he  thought  fit.  No  Indians  from  the  coast 
might  live  on  the  island;  no  soukias  were  allowed 
to  practise ;  no  intoxicating  liquor  was  made ; 
no  boat  might  put  to  sea  on  Sundays  ;  no  one  might 
leave  the  island  without  his  permission ;  and 
no  one  might  visit  the  island  without  a  satisfactory 
reason.  With  the  last  regulation  the  people  were 
charmed.  "  Ah  !  papa  Johnson,"  they  said,  "  we 
are  happy  now.  We  are  no  longer  beaten  by  the 
Moskito  men." 

(c)  Education.  As  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Jiirgensen  had 
no  children,  they  were  able  to  devote  much  time  to  the 
children  of  the  island.  The  language  in  Ramah 
Key  was  English.  Jiirgensen  taught  the  children  in 
his  own  house.  Mrs.  Jiirgenson  visited  the  huts,  and 
taught  the  mothers  how  to  keep  them  tidy  and  how 
to  take  care  of  their  babies  ;  and  thus  this  dutiful 
couple  acted  as  father  and  mother  to  the  whole 
island.  Among  the  rising  generation,  Jiirgensen 
discovered  many  beautiful  characters ;  and  some 
of  these,  in  their  love  for  Christ,  resembled  St, 
Bernard.  With  tears  in  his  eyes,  the  old  man,  after 
his  retirement  to  Denmark,  would  tell  how  James 
died,  exclaiming,  "  Look,  Jesus  is  there ;  "  how 
Benjamin  heard  a  strange  voice  saying,  "  Turn  to 
God  and  you  will  live  another  year ;  "  and  how 
Antoinette,    awaking   from    a    trance,   spoke  like  a 


Nicaragua.  883 

messenger  from  heaven.  Above  all,  Jiirgensen  loved 
to  tell  the  story  of  Tabitha.  "No  one,"  he  said, 
"excelled  her  in  beauty  of  character.  Her  speech 
was  like  a  heavenly  song,  and  her  face  as  the  face 
of  an   angel." 

At  length,  one  memorable  Easter  Sunday,  hearing 
that  Tabitha  was  ill,  he  called  to  see  her. 

"  Well,  Tabitha,"  he  asked,  "  what  have  you  to 
say  to  me  ?  " 

"  Papa,"  she  answered,  "  I  am  going  home.  I  am 
glad  that  soon  I  shall  see  my  Sa%aour  and  live  with 
Him   for   ever." 

But  Jiirgensen  did  not  encourage  morbid  thoughts. 

"  My  child,"  he  said,  "  are  you  not  afraid  to  die  ?  " 

"  No,"  she  replied,  "  look  at  the  beautiful  white 
robe  my  Sa\'iour  has  given  me." 

"  I  cannot  see  it.     What  is  it  like  ?  " 

"It  is  washed  in  the  blood  He  shed  on  Calvary." 

In  spite  of  Jiirgensen's  medical  efforts,  Tabitha 
grew  steadily  worse.  Around  her  couch  the  people 
stood  weeping  ;  Tabitha  begged  them  not  to  weep, 
assuring  them  that  she  was  happy  ;  and  then,  after 
begging  their  forgiveness  and  bidding  them  all 
good-bye,  she  asked  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Jiirgensen  to 
come  a  little  closer. 

"  I  thank  you  both,"  she  said,  "  for  all  your  kind- 
ness." 

Let  one  more  picture  linger  in  the  memory.  For 
some  years  after  Jiirgensen's  retirement,  his  successor 
made  a  practice  of  giving  the  Ramah  Key  Indians 
an  annual  day  excursion  to  the  coast ;  and  the 
scene,  as  they  rowed  home  in  the  evening,  recalls 
a  line  in  Shakespeare. t  As  the  sun  descended  beyond 
the  Teluca  mountains,  making  a  path  of  trembling 
gold  on  the  sea,  the  boat  was  nearing  the  converts' 

•f'The  setting  Bun,  with  music  at  the  cloee.** 


884        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

island  home  ;    and  the  Indians,  led  by  their  teacher, 
sang : — 

"  Abide   with   me,    fast   falls   the   eventide." 

4.    The  Great  Revival,  1881 — 1896. 

1881-96  For  fifteen  years  the  Moskito  Coast  was  the  scene  of 
the  most  wonderful  revival  in  the  history  of  Moravian 
Missions ;  and  all  the  missionaries  thankfully 
recognised  that  the  movement,  for  which  they  had 
made  no  special  preparations,  was  due  to  the  influence 
of  the  Holy  Ghost.  The  first  spark  took  fire  at 
Magdala.  As  Mary  Downs,  a  Creole  girl,  was  dressing 
a  corpse  for  burial  she  was  suddenly  so  deeply 
convicted  of  sin  that  her  whole  body  seemed 
paralyzed ;  and  then,  after  lying  three  days 
both  stiff  and  unconscious,  she  awoke,  repented, 
refused  food,  and  finally,  by  the  aid  of  Peter  Blair, 
resumed  her  meals  and  became  a  happy  Christian. 
And  then,  in  the  Church,  about  six  months  later, 
one  Sunday  afternoon,  a  strange  incident  occurred. 
As  the  closing  hjinn  was  being  sung,  a  strange  thrill 
seized  the  people,  and  some  men  began  to  pray  aloud. 
"  I  shall  never  forget  that  scene,"  said  Missionary 
Piper.  For  some  moments  the  excitement  was 
intense.  Some  fell  on  their  knees  or  raised  their 
hands;  some  cried  out  "Have  mercy!"  and  others 
"  Praise  God  !  " ;  and  then  all  fell  on  their  knees 
and  prayed  aloud.  For  the  sake  of  order,  Piper  gave 
out  a  hymn.  At  length  an  old  Indian  urged  all  to 
follow  Christ ;  and  the  people,  after  singing  and 
prayer,  went  quietly  home. 

In  a  few  hours  the  whole  of  Magdala  was  stirred. 
For  some  days  there  was  singing  and  praying  in 
every  house;  and  once  a  crowd  knocked  up  Peter 
Blair  at  midnight. 

"  Come  to  the  Church,"  they  said,  "  and  hold  a 


Nicaragua.  885 

prayer    meeting.      The   people    are  there,   and    are 
waiting  for  the  Second  Coming." 

But  Peter  Blair  did  not  encourage  midnight 
ravings.  "  Tell  the  people,"  he  said,  "  that  I'm 
always  ready  for  the  Second  Coming.  The  Lord 
will  accept  me  even  if  He  finds  me  in  bed.  And 
I  can't  get  up  just  now." 

A  still  greater  marvel  followed.  At  the  very  time 
when  Mary  Downs  was  converted  at  Magdala,  a 
similar  movement  began  at  Bluefields  ;  then  Martin 
reported  what  he  had  seen  at  Magdala ;  and,  one 
Sunday,  in  the  Bluefields  Church,  another  strange 
scene  was  witnessed.  Instead  of  sitting  quietly 
in  their  seats,  the  young  women,  just  before  the 
service,  took  off  their  black  belts,  and  when  Martin 
arrived  they  were  undoing  their  boots. 

"  What  is  the  meaning  of  this  ?  "  said  Martin. 
"  We   removed   our   belts,"   they   said,    "  because 
we  wished  to  be  all  in  white,  as  a  symbol  of  holiness  ; 
and  now  we  are  taking  off  our  boots  because  we  are 
on  holy  ground." 

At  Martin's  command  the  belts  were  re-buckled, 
and  the  service  proceeded  as  usual.  As  he  strolled 
by  his  house  a  few  hours  later,  an  excited  messenger 
ran  up,  and  Martin,  going  out  to  the  town,  found  a 
house  filled  with  inquirers.  On  Monday  every 
house  in  Bluefields  was  stirred  ;  all  classes,  white, 
brown,  black,  were  equally  affected  ;  the  movement 
ran  like  fire  along  the  coast ;  and  Martin,  though 
he  did  not  like  the  simile,  compared  it  to  an  epidemic. 
For  some  weeks  the  converts,  like  those  in  Jamaica, 
were  subject  to  horrible  convulsions  ;  some  sweated, 
trembled,  groaned,  refused  all  food,  and  drummed 
their  heels  on  the  floor  ;  and  not  till  they  had  found 
forgiveness  did  they  recover  their  senses.  Sometimes 
the  victim  lay  unconscious  for  hours  or  days  ;  and 
ont   woman   was    even   attacked    at    her  wedding. 


886        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

and  falling  backwards,  wriggled  out  of  the  Church. 
In  some  houses  the  seekers  had  visions  and  dreams  ; 
in  others  divine  revelations  ;  and  in  one  a  man  was 
said  to  have  spoken  with  tongues. 

Amid  scenes  like  these  the  Brethren  preserved  their 
calm.  In  spite  of  the  excesses,  they  believed  that  the 
revival  was  real ;  and,  doing  their  best  to  discourage 
folly,  they  referred  their  seekers  to  the  plain  teaching 
of  Scripture.  For  this  reason,  among  others,  the 
revival  did  untold  good  ;  and  all  along  the  coast  the 
Brethren  noted  fruits  of  the  Spirit.  For  the  first 
time  in  the  history  of  Central  America  thousands  of 
Indians  confessed  that  they  were  sinners,  and  from 
that  confession  many  virtues  sprang.  At  Magdala 
all  the  publicans  but  one  closed  their  saloons.  At 
Dakura  an  old  woman  smashed  all  the  rum  barrels, 
and  not  a  man  in  the  village  dared  to  stop  her.  At 
Karata  even  the  soukias  repented,  confessed  that 
they  had  been  impostors,  and  either  burned  or 
buried  their  implements,  and  at  Sandy  Bay  the  people 
complained  that  the  sermons  were  too  short.  At 
some  places  the  people  turned  sick  at  the  smell  of 
drink ;  at  others,  while  the  elders  clamoured  for  the 
Bible,  the  children  roamed  the  streets  singing  hymns  ; 
and  far  away  in  the  woodland  villages,  where  the 
sound  of  the  Gospel  had  never  been  heard,  the  poor 
penitents  climbed  the  trees,  lay  all  night  on  the 
branches,  and  started  early  in  the  morning  for  the 
nearest  mission  station. 

The  effect  of  the  movement  was  immense.  For 
fifteen  years  the  Brethren — sometimes  by  boat  and 
sometimes  on  horseback — were  seeking  sinners  from 
Bluefields  to  Cape  Gracias-a-Dios  ;  and,  taking  the 
Gospel  tide  at  the  flood,  they  founded  stations  at 
Quamwatla  and  Yulu  (1884),  Sharon  and  Twappi 
(1886),  Dakura  (1893),  Wasla  and  Sandy  Bay 
(1896).     At  some  places  their  experiences  were  of 


Nicaragua.  837 

marvellous  interest.  At  Quamwatla  {i.e..  Turkey- 
cock  House)  they  were  among  the  Sumu  Indians  ; 
and  here  they  heard  the  strange  story  of  Samuel  Hall. 
For  two  months  (October  to  December,  1871)  this 
young  man,  an  independent  worker  from  Bristol,  took 
the  usual  steps  towards  the  founding  of  a  station,  and 
when  he  died  his  widow  gave  £1,000  to  the  Mission  on 
condition  that  Quamwatla  was  made  a  Moravian 
station.  As  several  natives  died  soon  afterwards, 
the  surv'ivors,  thinking  the  village  possessed,  deserted 
it,  and  when  Sieborger  arrived  on  the  scene  (1878) 
he  found  nothing  but  graves.  Above  each  grave 
was  a  wooden  kennel,  containing  guns  and  arms 
for  the  departed  ;  and,  covered  with  bushwood,  there 
was  a  marble  tombstone  in  memory  of  Samuel  Hall. 
At  last  the  revival  touched  the  Quamwatla  people, 
living  beside  a  lake  in  the  forest ;  and  the  conduct 
of  the  trembling  sinners  was  quite  original.  In 
solemn  council,  they  passed  two  strange  resolutions  ; 
first,  that  they  would  have  one  grand  final  carouse, 
and  then  that  they  would  become  total  abstainers 
and  visit  Ephrata.  The  carouse  was  held,  the  visit 
to  Ephrata  was  paid,  the  natives  returned  to  their 
village,  and  there  the  Brethren  erected  the  "  Church 
beside  a  Grave." 

He  had  gone  as  a  Son  of  Truth, 

And  with  diligent  hand  and  free 
He  scattered  the  grain  in  the  far-off  land 

Beside  the  Mexican  Sea. 
But  hard  was  the  soil ;   no  fruit  appeared 

To  gladden  his  prayerful  search, 
He  died  and  his  body  was  laid  to  rest 

In  a  grave  without  a  Church. 

And  there  they  have  built  a  Church, 
'Tis  a  Church  beside  a  grave  ; 


S38        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

And  they  live  by  the  faith  of  the  Son  of  God, 

Who  died  from  sin  to  save. 
What  then  !   Quamwatla's  simple  lay 

Is  true  the  wide  world  o'er — 
By  the  empty  grave  of  the  Risen  Lord 

The  Church  stands  evermore.f 

At  YultL  the  people  continued  for  years  to  be  subject 
to  physical  convulsions.  The  people  seized  called 
themselves  "  Spirit  people,"  and  believing  themselves 
to  be  inspired,  rejected  the  missionary's  authority. 
As  their  morals,  however,  were  rather  low,  the 
missionary  felt  it  his  duty  to  oppose  them  ;  and 
he  even  laid  down  the  rule  that  all  people  seized 
with  trembling  at  Church  must  leave  the  building. 
The  "Spirit  people"  were  enraged.  At  one  service 
a  woman  refused  to  go,  and  Reichel  had  to  turn  her 
out. 

*' Who  gave  you  the  right,"  she  asked,  "to  act 
against  the  Holy  Ghost  ?  I  don't  care  if  you  expel 
me.  We  that  are  seized  know  that  we  have  the 
Spirit."     And  a  fortnight  later  she  repented. 

At  Dakura  the  converts'  conduct  was  simply 
amazing.  As  this  village  lay  in  Nicaragua,  the 
Brethren  for  over  a  dozen  years  were  unable  to  found 
a  station,  and  the  converts,  determined  to  hear  the 
Gospel,  would  pay  periodic  visits  to  the  nearest 
station,  stay  there  three  or  four  weeks,  hear  as  many 
sermons  as  possible,  and  then,  returning  to  Dakura, 
hold  services  both  for  themselves  and  for  their 
friends.  For  this  loyalty  they  received  their  due 
1893  reward,  and  the  station  at  Dakura  was  soon  fully 
organized. 

During  this  revival  period  the  missionaries  were  the 
most   popular   men   on   the   coast.     As   soon   as   a 

fBy  Bishop  Ellis.    For  the  wliole  poem,  see  "  Periodical  Accounts," 
December,  1888. 


Nicaragua.  839 

missionary    was    seen    approaching,    the    villagers 
crowded  round  him. 

"Parson,  Parson!"  they  cried.  "Make  prayers! 
We  have  got  the  revival,  but  now  you  must  give  us 
God's  Word  to  teach  us  aright." 

Sometimes  the  preacher  was  merely  passing 
through  the  village. 

"  Ah,  no  !  "  he  would  say.  "  I  cannot  stay,  I  am 
on  my  way  to  so-and-so." 

"  Make  prayers  ! "  the  people  cried.  "  See,  the 
Church  is  ready,  just  one  sermon." 

Sometimes,  on  the  other  hand,  the  preacher  could 
stay  a  few  days.  At  this  news  the  people  went  \vild 
with  joy,  and,  led  by  their  chief,  prepared  to  give  God's 
messenger  a  royal  welcome.  The  fattest  bullock 
was  killed  ;  the  boys  ran  off  to  the  woods  to  milk 
the  cows  ;  the  women,  busy  as  Martha,  prepared 
cassava,  and  the  supper  coffee  was  made  so  strong 
that  all  that  night,  in  the  chief's  best  bedroom, 
the  preacher,  wide  awake  as  a  watchman,  waited  for 
the  dawn  to  break. 

The  coping-stone  was  placed  by  Benjamin  Romig, 
a  member  of  the  Mission  Board.  For  two  months 
he  was  busy  visiting  all  the  stations.  At  his  sug-  1890 
gestion  the  Brethren  opened  a  Higher  School  at  Blue- 
fields,  and  all  along  the  coast  they  paid  more  attention 
to  education.  But  Romig's  scheme  had  soon  a  curious 
history. 

5.     The  Rule  of  Nicaragua,  1894  till 
Present  Day. 

And  now  occurred  the  greatest  political  change  1894 
in  the  history  of  Moskito.  Formerly,  the  kingdom 
of  Moskito  had  been  more  or  less  independent ;  now, 
on  February  9th,  1894,  President  Zelaya  sent 
Nicaraguan  soldiers  to  capture  Biuefields ;  and 
henceforth   the    so-called   Moskito    Reserve — known 


I 


840        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

now  as  the  Province  of  Zelaya — was  part  of  the  Roman 
CathoUc  RepubHc  of  Nicaragua.  At  the  very  outset 
the  soldiers  made  matters  clear.  The  Moskito  flag 
was  torn  down  and  fired  from  a  cannon  ;  the  flag 
of  Nicaragua  flew  in  its  place  ;  and  Robert  Clarence, 
the  King  of  Moskito,  fled  in  terror  to  Jamaica.  To 
the  Brethren  this  great  change  was  of  the  utmost 
importance.  In  the  past  they  had  enjoyed  religious 
liberty  ;  now  they  were  under  a  Roman  Catholic 
Government ;  and  some  of  them  very  naturally 
feared  that  the  Government  would  interfere  with  their 
work.  At  this  crisis  they  shewed  both  wisdom  and 
courage.  On  the  one  hand  they  resolved  that  they 
would  be  loyal  citizens  of  the  Republic  ;  on  the  other 
hand,  if  permitted,  they  would  still  preach  the  Gospel ; 
and  so  persistently  did  they  maintain  this  attitude 
that  while,  for  some  years,  they  had  to  endure  per- 
secution, they  succeeded,  at  last,  in  obtaining  full 
religious  liberty.  Let  us  now  note  the  chief  features 
of  the  struggle. 

1894  («)     The  first  attack  was  made  by  unauthorised 

officials.  In  theory,  the  Nicaraguan  Republic  stood 
for  religious  liberty ;  the  first  Governor,  General 
Galizas,  was  quite  friendly  to  the  Mission ;  and 
at  the  outset  he  informed  the  Brethren  that,  if  they 
would  abstain  from  politics,  he  would  not  interfere 
with  their  labours.  His  officials,  however,  worked 
against  the  Brethren  in  secret.  At  Bluefields  they 
informed  the  children  that  going  to  school  was 
useless,  and  along  the  coast  they  informed  the 
Indians  that  now,  under  the  new  rule,  they  would 
have  a  glorious  time.  "  You  may  go  back  to  all 
your  old  customs,"  they  said  ;  "  you  may  work  on 
Sundays,  and  have  as  many  wives  as  you  like." 
But  the  Indian  converts  were  not  so  easily  deceived. 
"  We  have  just  come  out  of  the  darkness,"  they 
said,  "  and  now  these  officials  want  to  push  us  back." 


Nicaragua.  841 

(b)  The  next  blow  was  financial.    Formerly,  taxes      1895 
in  Moskito  had  been  light ;   now  they  were  so  heavy 

that  trade  was  almost  ruined ;  and  many  of 
the  Moravian  converts  suffered  severely.  The 
Nicaraguan  mode  of  taxation  was  peculiar.  All 
imports  were  taxed  by  weight ;  the  weight  was 
always  made  to  include  the  packing ;  and  the 
consequence  of  this  arrangement  was  that  when 
the  missionaries  received  parcels  from  abroad  they 
had  to  pay  enormous  taxes  out  of  all  reasonable 
proportion  to  the  value  of  an  article.  Let  me  here 
give  one  astounding  example.  Inside  one  box  was 
an  apron,  weighing  half  a  pound  ;  in  estimating 
the  value  of  the  parcel,  the  Government 
included  the  box,  which  weighed  several  lbs.  ; 
and  the  tax  on  the  packet  was  actually 
£5  12s.  For  some  years,  therefore,  many  goods 
in  Moskito  were  at  famine  prices.  On  one 
box  of  Christmas  goods,  valued  in  England  at  £l, 
the  missionary  had  to  pay  £20 ;  a  sponge  cost 
£4  10s.;  and  butter  rose  to  10s.  a  lb.;  and  thus 
many  of  the  Indian  converts — even  though  they 
earned  good  wages — were  now  on  the  verge  of 
starvation. 

(c)  The  next  move,  though  well  meant,  endangered      18£6 
the  Brethren's  system  of  education.  But  the  President 

of  the  Nicaraguan  Republic  must  not  be  regarded 
as  a  bigot.  For  anything  I  know  to  the  contrary,  he 
was  quite  conscientious  in  his  motives  ;  in  any  case, 
he  sent  two  priests  to  inspect  the  Brethren's  schools  ; 
and  these  priests  not  only  opened  rival  schools,  but 
actually  accused  the  Brethren  of  neglecting  the 
Indian  children.  "  Just  send  your  children  to  us," 
they  said  to  the  parents.  "  We  will  teach  them  to 
read  and  write  in  less  than  a  year."  And  some  of  the 
other  inspectors  were  equally  cunning.  At  one  station 
they  informed  the  children  that  all  money  paid  as 


342        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

school-fees  was  sent  by  the  missionaries  to  England  ; 
at  another  the  inspector  urged  the  parents  to  demand 
a  Spanish  teacher ;  and  at  a  third  he  accused  the 
missionary  of  smuggling  tobacco.  In  spite,  however, 
of  these  slanders,  the  Moravian  day-schools  were 
well  attended.  In  the  so-called  Government  schools 
many  of  the  teachers  were  immoral ;  in  the  Brethren's 
schools  they  were  good  Christians ;  and  most  of  the 
parents  had  now  learned  to  distinguish  between 
good  and  evil. 

1900  (d)    The  next  Government  measure  nearly  ruined 

the  Mission.  Formerly,  the  Brethren  had  taught  both 
in  English  and  in  Moskito,  and  some  of  their  pupils 
had  learned  to  read  English  literature ;  now  the 
Government  passed  a  new  law  that  only  Spanish 
might  be  used  ;t  and  Dr.  Luna,  the  Chief  Inspector, 
read  out  a  proclamation  at  Bluefields  (June  9th, 
1900)  that  any  teacher  breaking  the  law  would  be 
fined  not  less  than  £5.  With  this  new  official  demand 
the  Moravian  missionaries  simply  could  not  comply. 
For  the  time  being,  therefore,  nearly  all  the  Moravian 
day-schools  had  to  be  closed ;  Government  day- 
schools  took  their  place  ;  and  so  severe  was  the  blow 
inflicted  on  the  Mission  that  in  1909  a  General  Synod 
decreed  that,  unless  conditions  improved,  the  Mission 
in  Nicaragua  must  be  gradually  abandoned. 

(e)  Meanwhile,  other  disasters  fell  on  the  Mission. 
In  1908  the  Brethren's  coasting  schooner,  the  Meta, 
was  wrecked,  and  most  of  Bluefields  was  destroyed 
by  fire ;  and  in  1906  and  1908  such  furious 
hurricanes  blew  that  nearly  every  station  lay  in 
ruins.  And  yet  the  Brethren  continued  to  make 
some    progress.     During   these    eventful   years  two 

fTliis  measure  must  not  be  construed  as  a  deliberate  attack  on 
the  Mission.  For  natural  patriotic  reasons  the  Government 
desired  that  all  children  in  Nicaragua  should  speak  the  same 
language. 


Nicaragua.  343 

missionaries  especially  rendered  magnificent  service. 
The  first  was  G.  Grunewald.  He  was  distinguished 
as  a  translator.  He  issued  an  improved  edition  of 
the  Moskito  Hymn  Book,  wrote  a  Moskito  Catechism, 
saw  through  the  press  "  One  Hundred  Old  Testament 
Stories  and  Fifty  Psalms,"  and,  finally,  issued  the 
New  Testament  in  Moskito.  With  these  books  in 
their  hands  the  Brethren,  though  excluded  from  the 
day-schools,  could  now  teach  in  the  Sunday  Schools  ; 
and  thus,  to  some  extent  at  least,  they  foiled  Inspector 
Luna.  The  other  distinguished  missionary  was 
Grossmann.  In  1905  he  explored  the  Wanks  River  ; 
two  years  later  a  new  station.  Sang  Sangta,  was 
founded,  and  thus  many  more  heathen  Indians  were 
reached. 

"  Why  did  you  choose  Sang  Sangta  ?  "  said  a  friend 
to  Grossmann. 

"  Because  it  was  the  wickedest  place  on  the  river." 

(/)  At  last  the  sun  of  freedom  burst  through  the 
clouds.  In  1910,  General  Estrada,  the  leader  of  the  1910 
Liberal  Party  in  Nicaragua,  openly  revolted  against 
the  Government.  His  attempt  was  a  brilliant 
success.  The  old  President,  Zelaya,  was  deposed  ; 
General  Estrada  took  his  place ;  and  the  new 
Government  issued  a  declaration  that,  while  the 
Church  of  Rome  was  still  the  State  Church,  all 
Protestants  should  enjoy  liberty  of  conscience.  The 
law  about  the  use  of  Spanish  in  schools  was  repealed ; 
once  more  the  Moravian  day-schools  flourished  ; 
and  some  of  the  missionaries,  by  rendering  medical 
sersdce,  made  a  favourable  impression  even  on  the 
Spaniards  of  Nicaragua. 

During  the  last  few  years  a  great  change  has  taken 
place  in  one  of  the  people's  ideas.  Formerly  the 
Indians  believed  that  no  one  could  become  a  Christian 
unless  he  was  both  married  and  over  thirty  years 
of  age ;    but  now  this  delusion  has  vanished,  and 


844        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

boys  and  girls  of  suitable  age  frequently  come  forward 
for  Confirmation. 

Political  History  or  Moskito. 

In  the  history  of  Moskito  there  are  five  note- 
worthy landmarks. 

1.  Moskito  a  British  Protectorate  (1655-1850). 
In  1630  some  English  Puritans  founded  a  small 
colony  on  the  coast,  and  in  1655  Great  Britain 
undertook  the  protectorate  of  Moskito. f  During 
the  whole  of  this  period  Great  Britain  maintained 
the  independence  of  Moskito,  and  the  following 
events  are  also  worthy  of  notice  : — 

(a)  1720.     Treaty  of  Alliance  between  the  King 

of  Moskito  and  the  Governor  of  Jamaica. 

(b)  1730.     Three  small  British  military  outposts 

established  at  Cape  Gracias-a-Dios,  Blue- 
fields,  and  the  mouth  of  the  Black  River. 

(c)  1763.     Peace  of  Paris.     Great  Britain  orders 

her  men  to  leave  Moskito,  but  still  con- 
tinues her  protectorate. 

(d)  1821.     Nicaragua   declares    herself   an   In- 

dependent   Republic. 

(e)  1836.     Nicaragua  captures  Greytown ;  five 

years  later  (1841)  Colonel  MacDonald, 
Governor  of  British  Honduras,  re-captures 
Greytown  and  restores  the  town  to 
Moskito  ;  and,  when  Nicaragua  protests. 
Great  Britain  informs  her  that  she  will 
defend  the  independence  of  Moskito 
against  all  assailants.  The  situation  is, 
therefore,  I  hope,  perfectly  clear.  In 
1849,  when  the  first  Moravian  missionaries 
arrived,    Moskito    was    an    independent 

fFor   a   full   account    of   the    Puritan    Colony,    see    BUicktvood's 
Magazine,  No.  1G5. 


Nicaragua.  845 

kingdom    under    the    special    protection 
of  Great  Britain. 

2.  Clayion-Buliver  Treaty  between  Great  Britain 
and  the  U.S.A.  (April  19th,  1850).  Great  Britain 
abandons  her  position  as  protector  of  Moskito. 
Moskito  is  still  independent,  but  henceforward  will 
have  to  fight  her  ovm.  battles. 

3.  Dallas-Clarendon  Treaty  between  Great  Britain 
and  U.S.A.  (1856).  Moskito  becomes  a  protectorate 
of  Nicaragua. 

4.  Treaty  of  Managua,  1860,  between  Great  Britain 
and  Nicaragua.  Moskito  placed  definitely  under  the 
sovereignty  of  Nicaragua,  the  Moskito  boundaries 
being  defined  as  follows  : — South,  the  Ramah  River ; 
west,  meridian  84'15  :  north,  the  Huesco  River ; 
east,  the  Caribbean  Sea.  Nevertheless,  Moskito 
still  retained  a  certain  measure  of  independence. 
She  still  had  her  own  king,  still  made  her  own  laws, 
still  preserved  her  old  customs.  Practically,  Moskito 
was  now  a  colony  belonging  to  Nicaragua. 

5.  Conquest  of  Moskito,  1894.  Nicaragua  con- 
quers Moskito  by  force.  Thereby  Moskito  loses  her 
independence  entirely,  and  becomes  a  province, 
known  as  Zelaya,  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Republic 
of  Nicaragua. 


Chapter  II. 

VICTORIA,  1849—1905. 
1.    The  Lake  Boga  Disaster,  1849-56. 

As  Anthony  Trollope  was  travelling  in  Southern 
Australia,  he  seized  his  opportunity  to  pay  a  visit 
to  a  little  Moravian  Mission  Station  named  Ebenezer 
and  situated  near  Lake  Wimmera,  in  Victoria ; 
and,  seeing  that  the  Papus  were  doomed  to  extinction, 
he  came  to  the  conclusion — stated  clearly  in  his 
book,  "  Australia  and  New  Zealand  " — that,  while 
the  Moravians  were  doing  excellent  work,  "  the 
game,"  to  use  his  own  expression,  "  was  not  worth 
the  candle."  With  this  pessimistic  opinion,  how- 
ever, other  competent  authorities  disagreed.  At 
least  three  important  British  officials — Major  Irwin, 
Commandant  of  Western  Australia,  Sir  George  Grey, 
Lt. -Governor  of  South  Australia,  and  his  successor, 
Major  Hutt — had  urged  the  Moravians  to  undertake 
a  Mission.  The  problem  was  fully  discussed  at  a 
General  Synod  (1848),  and  next  year  the  first  two 
missionaries,     Spieseke     and      Tager,      arrived     at 

1849  Melbourne.  The  Supt.  of  Port  Philip,  Joseph  La 
Trobe,  gave  them  a  cordial  welcome  ;  the  Bishop  of 
Melbourne,  Perry,  pleaded  their  cause;  the  Church 
of  England  Messenger  called  on  Churchmen  both  to 
pray  and  to  subscribe  ;    and,  settling  down  on  the 

1851  banks  of  Lake  Boga,  after  several  exploratory 
journeys,  the  two  Brethren  made  their  first 
acquaintance  with  the  Papus.  Let  us  take  a 
brief  glance  at  the  chief  characteristics  of  these 
people. 

According  to  some  ethnologists,  the  Papus  of 
Australia  were  descended  from  a  mixture  of  Malays 

(346) 


ViCTOEIA.  347 

and  Negroes.  In  build,  though  short,  they  were 
generally  thin  and  lanky;  most  of  them  had  flat, 
consumptive  chests ;  and,  as  they  were  much 
addicted  to  immorality,  many  of  them  also  inherited 
syphilis.  For  cleanliness  they  had  no  taste  whatever  ; 
instead  of  washing  they  rubbed  themselves  with 
fat ;  and  the  fat  and  the  dirt  were  a  hunting  ground 
for  vermin.  To  these  causes  of  death,  however, 
we  must  add  another.  In  no  country  was  child 
murder  more  common.  If  twins  were  bom,  only 
one  was  allowed  to  hve  ;  many  of  the  baby  girls  were 
strangled  at  birth  ;  and  in  some  cases  the  boys  also 
were  murdered.  For  this  custom  the  Papu  mothers 
gave  an  intelligible  reason.  "  If  the  boy  hves," 
they  said,  "he  is  sure  to  catch  some  painful  disease, 
and  therefore,  to  save  him  a  life  of  pain,  I  had  better 
kill  him  at  once."  With  this  merciful  design,  there- 
fore, she  choked  him  with  sand,  and  buried  him  about 
an  inch  deep. 

In  practical  matters  the  Papus  showed  consider- 
able skill.  At  the  time  when  the  Brethren  arrived 
on  the  scene,  the  Papus  earned  their  li\'ing,  not  by 
tilling  the  soil,  but  by  hunting  ;  for  this  purpose  they 
used  spears  made  of  fish-bone ;  and,  being  fairly 
agile  in  body,  they  could  swarm  up  trees,  manage 
horses,  and  hurl  the  boomerang  with  such  unerring 
accuracy  that,  as  we  all  know,  some  of  them  were 
brought  to  London  to  give  exhibitions  of  their  skill 
at  the  Crystal  Palace.  In  domestic  matters  their 
chief  weakness  was  their  failure  to  make  any  provision 
for  the  future.  If  food  abounded  they  gorged ; 
plenty  alternated  with  famine ;  and  their  chief 
delight  was  to  bask  in  the  sun  and  smoke  strong 
tobacco. 

With  regard  to  their  spiritual  nature,  opinions 
differed.  Ernest  Renan  declared  that  they  had  no 
souls ;  some  of  the  colonists,  it  is  said,  regarded  them  as 


848        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

mere  monkeys  ;  and  yet  the  Brethren  soon  discovered 
that,  in  their  own  rough  way,  they  beheved  both  in 
God  and  in  immortaHty.  The  Creator,  the  Father 
of  all,  was  called  Pei-e-Wei ;  man's  foe,  the  devil,  was 
called  Majalia  ;  and  Pei-e-Wei,  though  slow  to  act, 
sided  with  his  children  against  Majalia.  But  both 
about  God  and  about  the  devil  they  held  the  crudest 
ideas.  God  they  regarded  as  a  gigantic  old  man, 
who  slept  with  his  head  upon  his  arm  and  would  one 
day  wake  up  and  eat  the  world  ;  and  the  devil  was 
a  hideous  monster,  with  a  red  body.  With  Pei-e-Wei, 
however,  the  chief  difficulty  was  that,  though  he  was 
by  nature  kind-hearted,  he  was  also  rather  addicted 
to  fits  of  temper.  At  such  times  he  refused  to  give 
any  assistance,  and  the  Papus  appeased  his  wrath 
by  performing  their  famous  dance,  the  Corroborree. 
The  dance  took  place  by  moonlight.  The  performers 
daubed  their  bodies  with  white  clay,  streaked  their 
faces  red,  stuck  feathers  in  their  hair,  strung  the 
tails  of  rats  and  mice  on  their  ears  and  carried 
spears,  boomerangs,  and  clappers.  The  men  capered 
about  and  rattled  their  clappers  ;  the  women  droned 
a  lament ;  and  the  dance  concluded  with  an  orgy. 
With  Majalia  the  Papus  lived  in  constant  conflict. 
He  dwelt,  they  said,  in  a  dismal  cave,  appeared 
in  the  form  of  a  serpent,  and  sowed  the  seeds 
of  disease.  For  the  cure  of  disease  the  Papus 
relied  chiefly  on  the  aid  of  sorcerers.  With  their 
thick  lips  the  sorcerers  sucked  out  the  poison ; 
then,  of  course,  they  denounced  some  man  as  the 
cause ;  and  thus,  like  the  sorcerers  of  Surinam, 
they  incited  to  revenge  and  murder.  And  yet, 
with  all  their  aches  and  pains,  the  Papus  were  not 
entirely  miserable.  At  the  close  of  this  life  of  woe, 
they  said,  each  man,  saint  or  sinner,  would  be  happy 
for  ever ;  Nuranduri,  the  king  of  spirits,  would  lead 
him  to  a  home  of  joy  ;    and  there,  restored  to  the 


Victoria.  349 

vigour  of  youth,  he  would  have  as  many  wives  as 
he  had  had  here  on  earth.f 

For  five  years  the  two  Brethren  plodded  quietly 
on  at  Lake  Boga,  and  though  they  did  not  make  any 
actual  converts,  they  soon  gained  the  goodwill  of  the 
people.  Prince  Albert,  a  local  chieftain,  came  and 
asked  the  Brethren  for  brandy,  and  blushed  when  he 
was  offered  water  instead.  The  men  paraded  in  duck 
trousers,  and  admired  themselves  in  the  glass  ;  the 
women  strutted  in  red  skirts  sent  from  Melbourne  ; 
and  all,  men  and  women  alike,  were  willing,  in  return 
for  payment,  to  help  in  the  building  of  the  station. 
But  in  spiritual  matters  the  Papus  showed  no  interest. 
In  vain  the  Brethren  rebuked  them  for  their  vices. 
"Wait  a  little,"  repHed  the  Papus,  "we  will  hear  you 
at  a  more  convenient  season."  In  vain  the  Brethren 
told  the  story  of  the  Cross.  "  Let  us  have  some 
tobacco,"  replied  the  Papus,  "  otherwise  you  had 
better  depart." 

But  now  a  tragic  incident  occurred.  For 
certain  vile  purposes  of  their  own,  a  number 
of  gold-diggers  in  the  immediate  neighbour-  1856 
hood — fearing  that  if  the  Papus  became  Christians 
the  women  would  no  longer  sell  their  souls  for  an 
ounce  of  tobacco — now  made  a  deliberate  attempt  to 
destroy  the  Mission.  First  they  pilfered  the 
Brethren's  garden  and  stole  their  horses  ;  then  they 
informed  the  Papus  that  the  Brethren  fully  intended 
to  poison  them,  boil  them  in  a  pot  as  big  as  a  beer- 
house, and  serve  them  up  for  dinner;  and  then, 
to  add  insult  to  injury,  a  farmer  broke  down  the 
Bretliren's  fence  and  cut  a  road  through  their  garden.  , 
In  vain  Tager  went  to  Melbourne,  and  appealed  for 
justice.  Instead  of  granting  his  request  forthwith, 
the  authorities  very  properly  informed  him  that  he 


fFor  further  information,  see  R.  Brough  Smith.  "  The  Aborigines 
of  Victoria." 


350        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

must  bring  his  case  before  the  Law  Courts ; 
to  Tager,  however,  this  seemed  a  needless 
formahty ;  and,  feehng  that  he  had  been 
unjustly  treated,  he  not  only  abandoned  the 
Mission,  but  persuaded  his  colleagues  to  follow 
his  example.  Let  us  not,  however,  pass  a  harsh 
judgment  on  Tager.  For  some  months  he  had 
suffered  severely  from  jaundice ;  to  such  men 
even  the  snow  looks  yellow ;  and  Tager  may  be 
excused  on  the  ground  that,  being  ill,  he  took  a 
more  gloomy  view  of  the  case  than  the  evidence 
justified. 

2.     Ebenezer,  1858—1903. 

The  next  station  was  a  splendid  example  of 
inter-denominational  co-operation.  For  the  first 
time  in  the  history  of  Victoria,  Anglicans, 
Presbyterians  and  Moravians,  supported  warmly 
by  the  Government,  made  a  systematic  attempt 
to  Christianize  the  Papus.  Sir  Henry  Barkley, 
the  Governor,  gave  the  land,  and  promised 
compensation  for  the  losses  sustained  at  Lake 
Boga ;  the  Bishop  of  Melbourne,  Perry,  espoused 
the  cause ;  the  church,  built  largely  by  Papu 
1860  labour,  was  opened  and  dedicated  by  Canon 
Chase;  and  the  news  that  a  Papu,  Nathaniel 
Pepper,  had  actually  been  converted  and 
baptized,  created  such  a  sensation  at  Melbourne 
that  the  missionary,  F.  A.  Hagenauer,  had 
to  tell  the  story  at  a  mass  meeting.  The 
proceedings  were  fully  reported  in  the  Melbourne 
papers.  Sir  Henry  Barkley  presided ;  the 
Bishop  and  the  Dean  of  Melbourne  sat  by 
his  side ;  the  Bishop  once  more  extolled  the 
Brethren's  work ;  and  Canon  Chase  gave 
detailed  information  about  the  character  of 
young  Pepper.     The  result  was  a  great  increase  in 


Victoria.  351 

public  interest.  For  some  years  the  work  at 
Ebenezer  was  a  common  topic  of  conversation  in 
evangelical  circles  at  Melbourne  ;  and  members  of 
various  shades  of  rehgious  opinion  supported  the 
growing  cause  in  various  ways.  The  children  of  St. 
James's,  Canon  Chase's  Church,  sent  a  beautiful 
Bible ;  the  students  of  the  Presb\i:erian  College  sent 
windows ;  the  citizens  of  Horsham  formed  a 
"  Missionary  Union  "  ;  a  sheep  farmer,  Scott,  gave 
12,000  shingles  ;  and  finally,  at  the  special  request 
of  three  sympathetic  magistrates,  the  Victoria 
Pariiament  formed  a  "  Central  Board  "  to  guard  the 
rights  of  the  natives. 

Meanwhile,  at  Ebenezer  itself,  the  moral  and 
spiritual  results  were  marvellous.  For  twenty-six 
years  the  chief  missionary  here  was  Spieseke ;  this 
man  was  not  addicted  to  exaggeration ;  and  his 
sober  testimony  was  that  most  of  the  converts  at 
Ebenezer  attained  a  very  high  level  of  Christian 
character.  Instead  of  merely  hunting  and  fishing, 
they  were  now  mostly  employed  as  sheep  farmers. 
Nathaniel  Pepper  became  a  fine  local  preacher ; 
two  Papus,  Old  Charley  and  his  wife,  managed  a 
local  Orphanage ;  the  children  in  the  day-school 
passed  through  the  same  curriculum  as  the  English 
children  at  Melbourne ;  and  family  prayers  were 
conducted  at  every  house.  With  regard,  further,  to 
the  people's  honesty,  let  one  veracious  anecdote 
suffice.  Among  the  visitors  to  Ebenezer  was  a  certain 
Gottheb  Meissel,  and  Mrs.  Spieseke  instructed  him 
to  leave  his  boots  outside  the  house,  to  be 
cleaned. 

''  But  will  they  not  be  stolen  ?  "  asked 
Meissel. 

"  Xo,"  replied  the  missionary's  wife,  "  who  is 
there  to  steal  them  ?  We  have  been  here  seven  years, 
and  nothing  has  been  stolen  except  a  piece  of  soap. 


852        A  History  or  Moravian  Missions. 

And   even   that   was   brought  back   when   we   com- 
plained."f 

With  all  their  skill  and  zeal,  however,  the  Brethren 
fought  against  one  foe  in  vain.  In  spite  of  good  food 
and  an  open-air  life  the  people  still  suffered  terribly 
from  consumption.  For  every  birth  in  the  village 
there  were  five  deaths  ;  all  day  long  the  sound  of 
coughing  was  heard  ;  and  in  1903  the  station  was 
closed,  not  because  the  people  were  morally  hopeless, 
but  because  they  had  nearly  all  died. 

3.  Ramahyuck,  1863—1905. 
The  third  station,  Ramahyuck,*  i.e.,  "Our  Home," 
was  a  still  more  brilliant  success.  Once  more  the 
Government  took  a  prominent  part ;  once  more 
there  was  interdenominational  co-operation.  At  the 
special  instigation  of  Queen  Victoria  herself — who, 
in  a  letter,  begged  the  Governor  to  shield  the  Papus 
from  violence,  educate  them,  and  give  them  the 
Gospel — the  Victoria  Government  now  created  six 
Reserve  Stations,  where  only  Papus  and  their 
guardians  might  live.  Two  of  these  stations  were 
Ebenezer  and  Ramahyuck,  situated  near  Lake 
Wellington,  and,  acting  in  response  to  many  letters 
from  zealous  friends  in  Melbourne,  the  Moravian 
Mission  Board  placed  the  new  venture  under  the 
charge  of  F.  A.  Hagenauer.  For  the  long  period  of 
1863-1907  forty-four  years  this  man  was  one  of  the  best-known 
characters  in  Victoria  ;  at  Melbourne  he  was  famed 
for  his  humorous  lectures ;  and  the  charming  feature 
about  his  character  was  that,  while  he  had  three 
different  masters  to  serve,  he  seems  to  have  served 

•fFor  lack  of  space  I  cannot  tell  here  the  touching  and  romantic  story 
of  the  orphan  boy,  Willie  Wimmera.  He  was  taken  charge  of 
by  Canon  Chase,  came  to  England  and  died  at  Reading. 
Hjs  grave  may  be  seen  in  Reading  Churchyard,  and  a  few 
copies  of  "  The  Life  of  Willie  Wimmera"  are  still  obtainable. 

*ilamali  is  a  Hebrew  word  meaning  "  hill,"  or  sometimes  "home"  ; 
and  Yuck  is  a  Papu  word  meaning  "  our." 


ViCTOEIA.  S53 

them  all  equally  well.  First,  he  was  a  Government 
official,  and  held  the  position  of  Secretary  to  the 
Aboriginal  Board  and  Protector  of  the  Aborigines  ; 
secondly,  his  salary  was  paid  by  the  Presbyterians  ; 
and  thirdly,  he  was  a  Moravian  Minister,  and  had  to 
account  for  his  conduct  to  the  Mission  Board.  His 
policy  may  be  very  briefly  described.  He  was  partly 
a  social  reformer  arid  partly  a  preacher.  In  his  first 
capacity  he  attended  to  such  matters  as  trade, 
education,  health  and  the  care  of  the  poor  ;  in  his 
second  he  preached  the  Gospel  as  the  power  of 
salvation. 

His  first  task  was  to  find  the  Papus  a  home,  and 
provide  them  with  healthy  employment.  For  this 
purpose  he  built  a  village,  consisting  of  sixteen  neat 
little  houses.  Each  man  had  now  his  own  home  ; 
each  man  also  owned  two  or  three  cows  ;  and  each 
man,  who  had  the  physical  strength,  either  bred 
sheep  or  cultivated  a  small  allotment.  For  a  few- 
years  the  Government  supplied  the  station  with 
tea,  sugar,  flour,  and  clothing,  and  then  the  Papus 
became  so  prosperous  that  this  dole  was  no  longer 
required.  In  one  year  they  made  a  net  profit  of 
£112  on  hops  alone.  Ramahyuck  potatoes  were  the 
biggest  in  AustraUa;  and  Ramahyuck  arrowroot 
took  prizes  at  Vienna  and  IMelbourne.  At  the  same 
time  we  must  not  imagine  that  the  Papus  became 
ideal  workmen.  According  to  one  inspector,  Heilitz, 
they  were  never  in  danger  of  over-exerting  themselves, 
and  maintained  what  he  called  the  "  Government 
stroke."  Nevertheless,  they  had  now  some  ambition, 
and  learned  the  value  of  thrift.  Some  provided 
for  old  age  by  lodging  money  in  the  bank  ;  some 
bought  harmoniums  ;  and  some  provided  their  \N4ves 
with  sewing  machines. 

Still  better,  the  Papus  at  Ramahjoick  made 
marvellous  intellectual  progress.     One  woman,  Mrs. 

2A 


S54        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Daniel  Cameron,  acquired  a  good  literary  style, 
wrote  articles  on  the  Mission  for  some  of  the 
Australian  papers,  and  even  dared  to  criticise 
Macaulay's  Essays.  We  come  here  to  a  point  of 
stupendous  interest.  For  three  years  in  succession 
the  children  at  the  Ramahyuck  day-school — which 
was  organized  on  Government  lines  and  examined 
annually  by  Government  Inspectors — gained  the 
highest  marks  in  the  colony  ;  in  no  year  did  the  pupils 
fail  to  pass  the  Government  standard ;  and  so 
impressed  was  Mr.  Benjamin  Kidd  by  these  facts 
that,  in  his  "  Social  Evolution,"  he  used  them  to 
prove  his  thesis  that  intellectually,  though  not 
morally,  the  savage  nations  are  equal  to  the  civilised. "f 
With  due  respect  to  Mr.  Kidd,  however,  I  am  not 
convinced  of  the  soundness  of  his  argument.  The 
English  teachers,  in  the  day-schools,  taught  in  return 
for  a  salary  ;  the  Ramahyuck  teachers  were  inspired 
by  love,  and  put  more  heart  into  their  work  ;  and 
the  wonderful  progress  made  by  the  Papu  children 
may  have  been  due,  not  to  their  great  intellectual 
ability,  but  rather  to  the  exceptional  zeal  of  their 
teachers.*  To  some  extent,  however,  Mr.  Kidd  was 
right.  At  Ramahyuck  the  missionaries  proved  that, 
given  a  fair  opportunity,  the  Papus  were  not  quite  as 
stupid  as  the  colonists  had  previously  imagined. 

Still  better,  the  Papus  at  Ramahyuck  learned^to 
help  each  other.  In  spite  of  Hagenauer's  sanitary 
reforms,  there  was  still  a  great  deal  of  chronic  illness  ; 
only  twelve  men  out  of  eighty  could  do  a  good  day's 
hard  work  ;    and  these  twelve  helped  to  support  the 

t"  Social  Evolution,"  p.  295.  The  Papu  children  obtained  100 
per  cent,  marks. 

*3ee,  however,  A.  Conaii  Doyle's  "  Wanderings  of  a  Spirituslist," 
p.  1(30.  He  says  that  Dr.  Creed,  of  the  New  South  Wales  Parlia- 
ment, spoke  very  highly  of  the  brains  of  the  black  fellows. 
In  the  schools  they  still  do  as  well  as  the  whites,  and  "  train  into 
excellent  telegraph  operators  and  other  employnienta  needing 
quick  intelligence," 


Victoria.  855 

other  sixty-eight.  Some  maintained  a  local 
"Children's  Home";  others  sent  gifts  to  the  Moskito 
Coast,  and  to  the  Leper  Home  in  Jerusalem  ;  and 
all,  to  the  best  of  their  abiUty,  contributed  to  the 
New  Mission  in  North  Queensland. 

Above  all,  the  Papus  became  Christians  in  the 
highest  sense  of  the  term.  Instead  of  fighting, 
they  lived  at  peace  with  each  other ;  instead  of 
dancing,  they  sang  hjTnns  ;  and  instead  of  gambling 
at  cards,  they  played  at  marbles.  For  several  years 
there  was  not  a  single  case  of  adultery  ;  the  average 
standard  of  morality  was  higher  than  at  Melbourne  ; 
and  the  people  themselves  laid  down  the  law  that  no 
one  guilty  of  such  misconduct  should  be  allowed  to 
live  in  the  village.  The  whole  village  became,  in 
time,  a  Christian  family.  At  seven  a.m.  all  the 
inhabitants  assembled  in  the  Church  for  morning 
prayers,  and  each  householder,  at  sunset,  conducted 
prayers  in  his  own  home.  And  yet  Ramahyuck, 
like  Ebenezer,  had  finally  to  be  abandoned.  In 
1905  only  six  families  were  left ;  these  few  were 
handed  over  to  the  Anglicans  at  Lake  Tyers  ;  and 
two  years  later,  at  "  Our  Home,"  Hagenauer  passed  1907 
to  his  reward. 

For  the  sake  of  completeness  I  must  here  add  that, 
at  the  request  of  the  Presbyterians  in  Melbourne, 
three  Moravian  missionaries,  Walder,f  Meissel,  and 
Kramer,  attempted  to  establish  a  Mission  at  Lake  1866^ 
Kopperamanna  in  South  Australia  ;  and  the  interesting 
feature  of  the  story  is  that  while,  for  lack  of  funds, 
the  work  was  abandoned,  and  while  the  missionaries 
gained  no  converts,  they  did  make  a  few  discoveries 
about  the  customs  and  beliefs  of  the  people.  In  this 
region  the  devil  was  called  Kitchi.  He  appeared 
in  the  form  of  a  bird,  bit  his  victims,  and  thereby 
caused  diseases.     In  most  cases  of  death,  however, 

t Afterwards  a  prominent  missionary  in  Jamaica,  see  p.  228, 


856        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

the  first  business  of  the  relatives  was  to  discover 
the  murderer.  The  elders  sat  in  a  circle ;  a  beetle 
was  placed  in  the  middle  ;  and  the  direction  in  which 
the  beetle  walked  was  the  direction  in  which  the 
murderer  lived.  Meissel  once  saw  a  woman  bury 
her  new-born  child,  and  asked  her  why  she  did  that. 
"  It  is  too  much  trouble,"  she  said,  "  to  carry  a  baby 
about."  He  also  heard  that  the  people  ate  their 
dead  friends,  and  when  he  asked  them  why  they 
did  that,  they  answered  :  "If  you  don't  eat  your 
friends,  you'll  soon  forget  them."  The  people, 
however,  believed  in  immortality,  and  made  a  dis- 
tinction between  the  good  and  the  wicked.  The 
good  went  down  to  heaven  ;  the  wicked  went  up 
to  hell.  Heaven,  therefore,  was  under  the  earth 
and  hell  up  in  the  sky. 


Chapter  III. 

WESTERN   TIBET,    1853—1914. 
1.     The  First  Inquiries. 

As  Dr.  Gutzlaff,  the  famous  missionary,  was  on  his  18S0 
way  home  from  China,  he  called  at  Herrnhut,  inter- 
viewed the  Moravian  Mission  Board,  and  suggested 
that  ]\Iora\'ian  missionaries  be  sent  to  that  part  of 
Mongolia  which  was  imder  Chinese  rule  ;  and  acting 
on  Dr.  Gutzlaff' s  suggestions,  the  Board  selected  two 
young  men — Augustus  William  Heyde  and  Edward 
Pagell — to  make  preliminary  inquiries.  As  the 
Russian  Government  refused  a  pass  through  Siberia,  1853 
the  two  young  men  set  sail  for  Calcutta,  were  rowed 
up  the  Ganges,  and  made  their  way  to  Kotghur; 
and  there  they  were  warmly  welcomed  by  Prochnow, 
of  the  Church  Missionary  Society,  and  gazed  with 
delight  on  the  River  Sutlej,  gleaming  like  a  silver 
ribbon  far  down  in  the  valley.  For  some  months 
they  stayed  with  Prochnow,  studying  Mongolian ; 
and  then,  having  mastered  the  language,  they 
endeavoured  to  push  northwards  through  Chinese 
Tibet. 

But  now  they  made  a  painftd  discovery.  At  1855 
Rampoor  they  interviewed  a  Rajah,  and  saw  two 
Fakirs,  sprinkled  with  ashes,  smoking  long  cheroots 
under  a  fig  tree  ;  at  Sultanpur,  they  gave  out  medicine 
to  the  poor,  and  made  a  good  impression  on 
the  people,  and  then,  arriving  at  the  town  of  Leh, 
the  capital  of  Ladak,  they  received  the 
information  that  the  road  to  Tibet  was  infested 
vdih  robbers.  But  the  robbers  were  not  the 
most  effective  barrier.  The  real  obstacle  was  the 
Chinese  Government.  Each  time  the  Brethren 
approached  the  border,  Chinese  officials  blocked  the 

(557) 


858        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Vi'ay  ;  all  the  Brethren's  arguments  fell  on  deaf  ears  ; 
and  the  net  result  of  this  expedition  was  that  the 
Brethren  resolved  to  establish  a  Mission,  not  in 
Chinese  Tibet,  but  in  what  is  known  to  us  as  Western 
Tibet. 

The  history  of  this  little  Mission  is  pathetic. 
For  reasons  soon  to  be  explained,  the  Brethren 
found  themselves  compelled  to  confine  their  main 
efforts  to  three  small  stations.  In  Lahoul  they 
founded  Kyelang  (1857),  situated  on  the  high  road 
from  Tri-lok-nath,  a  Buddhist  shrine,  to  Lhasa. 
In  Bashahr  they  founded  Poo  (1865),  close  to  the 
Chinese  border.  In  Ladak,  they  established  their 
cause  at  Leh  (1885),  a  busy  city  ;  and  though  two 
other  stations  were  afterwards  founded — Kalatse 
(1899)  near  Leh,  and  Chini  (1900)  near  Poo — these 
two  stations  were  little  more  than  experimental  out- 
preaching  places.  Each  of  the  three  main  stations 
was  skilfully  chosen  ;  each  was  in  a  fairly  populous 
district ;  each  was  served  by  efficient  and  zealous 
missionaries ;  and  yet,  in  each  case,  the  progress 
was  so  slow  that,  driven  almost  to  despair,  some 
English  Moravians  found  it  needful  to  establish 
(1895)  a  special  Tibetan  Prayer  Union.  The  whole 
story  raises  a  fascinating  problem.  Let  us  first  notice 
the  Brethren's   methods   of  work. 

2.   The  Seven  Lamps. 

As  Ruskin  speaks  of  seven  lamps  of  architecture, 
so  the  scientific  historian  may  speak  of  seven  methods 
of  missionary  work,  and  each  of  these  seven  methods 
was  employed  by  the  Moravians  in  Western  Tibet. 
In  theory  the  people  of  Western  Tibet  were  mostly 
Buddhists ;  the  authorised  teachers  of  Buddhism 
were  the  Lamas  ;  and  now,  to  overcome  the  Lamas' 
influence,   the  Brethren   brought  the  Seven  Lamps 


Western  Tibet.  859 

of  Gospel  Truth  and  trusted  that  in  due  time  the 
light  would  dispel  the  darkness. 

1.  Agricultural  Science.  At  the  special  request 
of  the  Government,  which  not  only  offered  land 
but  granted  money  for  irrigation  purposes,  the 
Brethren  opened  a  Model  Farm  at  their  first 
station,  Kyelang.  Here  they  introduced  rye  and 
potatoes,  bred  sheep,  and  taught  the  natives  how  to 
grow  greens  and  fruits,  and  thereby  they  achieved  two 
useful  objects.  On  the  one  hand  they  provided  for 
their  own  converts.  For  more  than  thirty  years 
all  their  converts  came  from  the  poorest  classes. 
The  situation  in  Western  Tibet  was  terrible.  In 
theory  there  was  religious  liberty;  in  fact,  no  one 
could  become  a  Christian  without  finding  himself 
in  financial  difficulties.  His  landlord  turned  him 
out  without  due  notice  ;  his  father  cut  him  off  with 
less  than  a  shilling  ;  and  his  wife  deserted  him  for 
another  mate.  The  case  of  Stobgyes  at  Kalatse 
was  typical. 

"  I  will  teach  you  the  Christian  religion,*'  said  he 
to  his  wife. 

"  Never,"  she  retorted.  "  You  must  sign  a  paper 
handing  over  your  house  and  land  to  me." 

By  becoming  a  Christian,  therefore,  Stobgyes 
lost  the  bulk  of  his  property.  For  such  heroes 
some  provision  must  be  made.  At  Kyelang  some 
of  the  converts  were  employed  on  the  farm  as 
labourers  and  cowherds.  At  Poo,  the  second  station, 
they  were  taught  spinning  and  weaving  ;  others  had 
positions  as  postmen,  printers,  and  day-school 
teachers;  and,  even  as  late  as  1895,  all  the  converts 
except  two  were  dependent  for  their  livelihood  on 
the  Mission.  By  means  of  their  industrial  system 
the  Brethren  made  it  possible  for  a  man  to  be  a 
Christian    without    actually    dying    of   starvation. 

The  other  object  was  that  of  proving  the  Lamas 


360        A  History  of  Moravian  MissioKrs. 

impostors.  In  the  past  the  Lamas  had  taught  that 
no  tree  would  ever  bear  fruit  unless  they  read  certain 
charms  to  keep  off  evil  spirits  ;  for  this  perform- 
ance they  generally  charged  a  high  fee  ;  and  the 
Brethren's  prosperous  farm  at  Kyelang  proved 
that  the  Lamas'  claims  were  false. 

1857-67  2.  Literature.  In  1857  there  arrived  at  Kyelang 
the  most  distinguished  linguist  in  the  whole  history 
of  the  Moravian  Church  ;  this  was  Henry  Augustus 
Jaschke  ;  and  Jaschke's  chief  task  was  to  translate 
the  whole  Bible  into  Tibetan.  His  linguistic  powers 
were  enormous.  At  the  time  when  he  arrived  in 
Western  Tibet,  he  had  already  mastered  Latin, 
Greek,  Polish,  Danish,  Swedish  and  Hungarian ; 
he  had,  also,  it  is  said,  a  working  knowledge  of 
Czech,  Arabic,  Sanskrit,  and  Persian ;  and  now,  after 
spending  a  year  in  the  quiet  little  village  of  Stok, 
in  Ladak — where,  he  tells  us,  he  existed  on  barley, 
chang,  and  one  egg  a  day,  laid  systematically  by  an 
obliging  hen — he  settled  down  at  Kyelang  and 
made  the  little  village  a  home  of  learning.  There, 
day  after  day,  he  sat,  translating  useful  books  into 
popular  Tibetan.  The  Brethren  had  their  own 
lithographic  press,  and  one  Nathaniel,  a  converted 
Lama  from  Lhasa,  rendered  efficient  assistance. 

1859  First  appeared  Barths'  Bible  Stories,  a  Harmony 

of  the  Gospels,  a  Liturgy,  a  Hymn  Book,  a  Catechism, 
a  Geography,  a  Book  of  Fables,  a  Church  History, 
and  various  school  readers,  tracts,  and  pamphlets  ; 
then  (1865)  "  A  Short  Practical  Grammar  of  the 
Tibetan  Language  "  ;  then  (1866)  "  A  Romanized 
Phonetic  Tibetan  and  English  Dictionary "  ;  and 
then  (1867)  a  "  Conversation  Book  in  Tibetan,  Urdu, 
and  Hindu,"  and  "  An  Introduction  to  the  Hindu 
and  Urdu  Languages." 

1867  At  this  point,  broken  down  in  health,  Jaschke  had 

to  retire  from  the  scene  of  action.      During  the  nex- 


b 


Western  Tibet.  861 

thirteen  years,  however,  tortured  though  he  was  by- 
headaches,  he  plodded  quietly  on  in  his  own  home. 
First  (1871),  he  published  a  huge  English-Tibetan 
Dictionary  ;  then  came  his  elaborate  treatise  on  the 
various  Tibetan  dialects ;  and  finally,  during  the 
last  few  years  of  his  life,  he  translated  into  Tibetan 
all  the  New  Testament  except  Hebrews.  On  the 
value  of  his  labours  two  great  scholars  passed  judg- 
ment. Dr.  Miiller,  of  Vienna,  called  him  a  shining 
light ;  Dr.  Max  Miiller,  of  Oxford,  declared  that  in 
due  time  his  work  would  have  important  results ; 
and  the  real  truth  of  the  matter  is  that  Jaschke's 
work  in  Tibetan  may,  without  exaggeration,  be 
compared  to  that  of  Liddell  and  Scott  in  Greek,  or 
Lewis  and  Short  in  Latin. 

His  successors  did  their  best  to  continue  his  work. 
F.  A.  Redslob  translated  Hebrews  and  Revelation  ; 
Heyde,  who  was  fifty  years  at  Kyelang,  wrote  a 
Tibetan  Arithmetic,  and  a  "  View  of  the  World," 
translated  Beck's  "  Manual  of  Doctrine,"  and,  at  the 
request  of  the  Government,  re\'ised  Jaschke's 
Dictionary  ;  others  published  the  Pentateuch,  the 
Psalms,  and  various  Hymn  Books.  Finally,  A.  H. 
Francke  founded  and  edited  a  Tibetan  Monthly 
Magazine,  entitled  "The  Ladak  News."  By  means  1904 
of  this  last  step  Francke  was  introducing  a  new  idea. 
For  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  Western  Tibet 
non-Christian  Tibetans  realised  that  printed  matter 
might  be  read,  not  for  the  purpose  of  acquiring  merit, 
but    because    it    contained    interesting    information. 

The  Magazine  was  di^•ided  into  three  parts.  In 
Part  I.  there  was  political  information,  mostly  about 
Tibet ;  in  Part  II.,  an  old  Tibetan  Story  ;  and  in 
Part  III.  a  short  sermon ;  and  Francke  himself 
expressed  the  hope  that  if  the  people  read  his 
Magazine  in  order  to  gain  instruction,  they  might 
some  day  read  the  Bible  for  the  same  purpose. 


862        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

3.  Colporteur  Work.  In  order  to  bring  their 
publications  to  the  homes  of  the  people,  several 
Brethren — Heyde,  Pagell,  Redslob,  and  Schnabel — 
spent  each  summer  travelling  ;  all  the  six  provinces 
in  Western  Tibet — Ladak,  Kunawar,  Spitti, 
Bashahr,  Nubra,  and  Zanskar — became  familiar 
ground;  and  though  the  Brethren  could  never  feel 
sure  that  any  of  the  books  they  distributed  would  be 
read,  they  had  at  least  a  fine  opportunity  of  study- 
ing the  inner  life  of  the  people.  Let  two  examples 
illustrate  the  point. 

The  time  is  evening,  and  the  missionary  has  pitched 
his  tent  in  some  remote  highland  hamlet;  the 
moon  rises  above  the  snow- crowned  peaks ;  the 
villagers  light  their  camp  fires,  and  the  missionary, 
standing  before  his  tent,  sings  his  evening  hymn  of 
praise.  The  villagers  cluster  round  him,  the 
missionary  preaches  a  sermon,  and  the  eyes  of  his 
listeners  shine  with  hope. 

"  We  have  listened  well  to-night,"  they  say, 
"  now    he   will  hand   round   the    baksheesh." 

Again,  on  another  occasion,  Heyde  gave  some  books 
to  an  invalid,  and  the  man  shed  tears  of  gratitude. 

"  I  shall  put  these  with  my  other  books,"  he  said, 
*'  and  offer  burnt  sacrifices  to  them." 

But  this  colporteur  work  was  not  altogether 
in  vain.  By  rendering  some  homely  service 
the  missionaries  always  endeavoured  to  win  the 
affections  of  the  people.  In  one  village  they 
would  distribute  medicines  ;  in  another  they  repaired 
watches ;  and  some  of  the  pilgrims  valued  the  books, 
and  carried  them  as  far  as  Lhasa;  and  in  some 
cases,  they  even  read  and  remembered  Bible  stories. 

1861  4.     Education.      As    soon    as    Jaschke    had    the 

needful  schoolbooks  ready,  the  Brethren,  aided  by 
the  Government,  which  granted  £50  per  annum, 
opened  a  small  day-school  at  Kyelang.     A  Hindoo 


Western  Tibet.  363 

teacher  was  appointed  to  teach  Urdu ;  the 
missionaries  taught  the  usual  subjects  in  Tibetan;  the 
missionaries'  wives  taught  knitting ;  and  young 
Tibetans,  m  return  for  a  small  salary,  taught  in  the 
surrounding  villages.  But  the  whole  scheme,  at  an 
early  period,  met  with  an  unexpected  obstacle. 

At  that  time  the  most  powerful  noble  in  the 
neighbourhood  was  a  certain  Tari  Chand,  and  Tari 
Chand  was  a  two-faced  scoundrel.  In  his  con- 
versations ^^•ith  the  Brethren  he  professed  himself  a 
friend ;  in  reality,  he  was  their  bitter  enemy ; 
and  fearing  that  the  more  educated  the  people  became 
the  more  likely  they  would  be  to  resist  his  t}Tanny, 
he  persuaded  the  local  Lamas  to  poison  the  minds 
of  the  parents.  The  Lamas  rose  to  the  occasion  ; 
the  parents  intimidated  the  children ;  and,  therefore, 
the  attendance  was  always  small.  Nor  were  the  few 
who  attended  very  satisfactory.  In  the  winter  the 
bo}  s  were  unruly ;  in  the  summer  they  were 
frequently  herding  sheep  ;  and  the  girls  often  stole 
their  knitting  material,  and  made  up  the  weight 
by  inserting  stones  in  the  balls  of  wool. 

The  first  real  success  was  achieved  at  Leh.  For  1898 
some  reason  the  people  here  began  at  last  to  be 
ashamed  of  their  ignorance ;  the  local  Governor 
issued  an  order  that  one  child  in  every  family  must 
attend  the  Moravian  School ;  and  though  the  order 
cannot  have  been  fully  obeyed,  the  average  attend- 
ance rose  to  sixty. 

5.  Medical  Work.  The  story  of  the  medical  work 
is  both  tragic  and  romantic.  The  first  leader  of  much 
importance  was  Edward  Pagell.  For  eighteen  years 
this  man,  who,  though  not  fully  qualified,  had  much 
more  medical  knowledge  than  the  Lamas,  rendered 
excellent  service  at  Poo,  vaccinating,  extracting 
teeth,  curing  sore  eyes,  and  compounding  a  popular 
ointment  made  of  minium  and   camphor ;     and  so 


864        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

much  was  he  beloved  that  the  common  people  called 
him  the  Poo  Father.  His  end  caused  terrible  sorrow. 
On  January  3rd,  1883,  Pagell  fell  dead  in  his  surgery  ; 
six  days  later  (January  9th)  Mrs.  Pagell  died  ;  and, 
with  her  last  breath,  she  urged  the  three  Christians 
in  the  village  to  hold  true  to  the  faith. 

The  next  leader  was  a  fully-qualified  man.  In 
1886  Dr.  Carl  Marx  was  appointed  Medical  Missionary 
at  Leh ;  here  a  small  hospital  was  opened,  the 
building  itself  being  provided  by  the  Government ; 
and  Dr.  Marx  made  it  his  business  to  attend,  not  only 
to  the  physical,  but  also  to  the  spiritual,  needs  of  the 
patients.  The  building  was  far  from  being  an  ideal 
hospital.  For  some  reason  the  doors  would  not  shut, 
nearly  all  the  windows  were  broken,  and  the  patients, 
who  brought  their  own  bedding,  slept  on  the  floor. 
Dr.  Marx's  career,  however,  was  soon  cut  short ; 
on  May  29th,  1891,  he  died  of  typhus  ;  and  during 
the  next  seven  years  the  hospital  was  in  non- 
Moravian  hands. 

The  next  leader,  Dr.  Ernest  Shawe,  was  the  son  of 
a  Moravian  minister  in  the  north  of  Ireland.  He 
also  (1907)  died  in  the  prime  of  life,  and  six  years 
passed  before  a  successor.  Dr.  Heber,  could  be 
found. 

6.  Zenana  Work.  This  also,  like  the  hospital 
work,  began  at  Leh  (1890).  In  order  to  come  into 
closer  contact  with  the  women,  Mrs.  Weber,  Miss 
Kant,  Mrs.  Ribbach,  and  others,  began  a  series 
of  systematic  house-to-house  visitations ;  thereby 
they  discovered  how  miserable  the  women  were ; 
and  all  these  women  were  only  too  glad  to  have  an 
opportunity  of  complaining  about  the  cruelty  of  their 
husbands.  The  scene  in  most  houses  was  both 
pathetic  and  humorous.  As  soon  as  the  first 
formalities  were  duly  completed,  the  visiting  lady 
took  her  seat  on  a  carpet ;    tea  appeared  ;    and  the 


Western  Tibet.  865 

hostess  generally  asked  her  visitor  how  much  her  hat 
cost,  how  often  she  washed  her  face,  what  sort  of 
soap  she  used  for  her  hands,  and  whether  she  dressed 
her  hair  ^\^.th  a  sponge  or  a  flannel.  The  chief 
purpose  of  the  visits  was,  of  course,  religious.  Bible 
pictures  were  brought  to  please  the  children  ;  simple 
stories  out  of  the  Gospels  were  read  ;  and  sometimes 
the  more  intelhgent  women  would  show  each  other 
the  pictures.  According  to  Mrs.  Ribbach,  the  women 
most  easy  to  reach  were  the  Mahometans.  These 
women  fasted  on  certain  occasions,  and  the  reason 
they  gave  for  doing  so  was  that  otherwise  God  would 
hit  them  with  a  stick.  Mrs.  Ribbach  described 
the  whole  situation  in  a  sentence.  "It  is  clear," 
she  said,  "  that  these  women  have  never  been  taught 
to  use  their  brains." 

7.  Gospel  Preaching.  For  many  years  the  regular 
Sunday  services  held  at  the  three  stations  were 
both  dull  and  poorly  attended ;  the  Tibetans, 
though  fond  of  some  kinds  of  music,!  could  not  sing 
the  Mora\'ian  Chorales,  and  during  the  service 
they  would  giggle,  and  spit  on  the  floor.  In  due 
time,  however,  there  was  a  slight  improvement ; 
at  Poo  and  Leh  Lantern  Ser%-ices  proved  attractive, 
and  finally,  by  attending  week-night  Prayer  Meetings, 
the  people  began  to  realise  what  prayer  really  means. 

In  spite,  however,  of  these  seven  methods,  no 
striking  numerical  success  was  achieved.  In  1885 
the  number  of  converts  was  only  six  ;  in  1895  only 
thirty  ;  in  1903,  only  sixty-three;  and  some  of  the 
earlier  converts  were  most  disappointing.     The  first, 


■fFor  specimens  of  Tibetan  music,  written  down  and  har- 
monised by  the  Rev.  A.  H.  Francke,  see  "  A  Summer  Ride 
Through  Western  Tibet"  (pp.  150-7),  by  Miss  Jane  Ellen 
Dimcan.  {Collins'  Clear  Type  Press.)  The  Tibetans  are  far 
more  musical  than  the  first  missionaries  supposed  ;  and  so 
Tigorous  was  the  singing  in  the  Moravian  Church  at  Leh,  that 
summer  risitor*  sometimes  came  to  listen, 


366        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Nicodemus,  is  said  to  have  committed  suicide ; 
another,  Nathaniel,  deserted  ;  and  a  third,  Martha, 
broke  the  Seventh  Commandment. 

In  the  last  ten  years,  however,  i.e.,  soon  after 
the  estabhshment  of  the  Tibetan  Prayer  Union, 
some  of  the  converts,  such  as  Stobgyes,  made  great 
sacrifices  for  their  religion,  and  two,  Chompel  and 
Paulu,  could  even  be  employed  as  evangelists.  But 
why,  it  may  be  asked,  was  progress  so  slow  ? 

3.     The  Explanation. 

At  the  time  when  Heyde  and  Pagell  arrived  on  the 
scene,  no  one  had  the  least  suspicion  how  strong  and 
how  well  organized  the  opposition  to  the  work  would 
be.  During  the  next  fifty  years,  however,  many 
interesting  facts  were  discovered  about  the  moral 
and  spiritual  life  of  the  people ;  and  these  facts  are 
almost  sufficient  to  explain  the  Brethren's  failure. 

The  key  to  the  problem  will  be  found  in  the  word 
"Lamas."  In  theory,  the  popular  religion  was 
Buddhism;  in  reality,  it  was  Lamaism;f  and  these 
Lamas,  by  using  three  powerful  methods,  had  so 
destroyed  the  people's  higher  instincts,  that  one 
missionary,  Redslob,  described  their  work  as  Satanic. 

1.  Ceremonialism.  First,  instead  of  appealing 
to  the  conscience,  the  Lamas  laid  the  main  stress  on 
certain  outward  forms,  and  by  means  of  these  out- 
ward forms  they  impressed  the  minds  of  the  simple- 
minded.  They  wore  long  red  or  yellow  robes  ;  they 
shaved  their  crowns ;  they  used  rosaries ;  they 
lived  in  cloisters  ;  they  read  books  aloud  in  public ; 
and  thus,  chiefly  in  their  own  interests,  they  created 
the  impression  that  they  alone,  being  in  possession 
of  supernatural  powers,  were  competent  to  deal  with 
the  devils  with  which  the  country  was  supposed  to 


fOn    Lamaism    see    Percival    Landon's    "  Lhasa,"    pp.    253-273. 
{T.  Fisher  Unwin,  1906). 


Western  Tibet.  367 

swarm.  Among  the  Lamas  the  most  powerful 
were  the  Kushogs.  A  Kushog,  they  said,  was  a 
noble  soul  who,  while  ready  for  Nin-ana,  had  returned 
to  earth  to  help  his  brethren,  and  these  Kushogs 
possessed  extraordinary  miraculous  powers.  They 
controlled  the  avalanches  and  glaciers ;  they  sold 
amulets  to  prevent  diseases,  they  could  even  cause  the 
barren  to  bear.  But  all  the  Lamas  claimed  super- 
natural powers.  According  to  the  Lamas  all  diseases, 
all  disasters,  all  floods,  famines  and  droughts  were 
caused  by  invisible  de\'ils  ;  one  famous  book,  they 
said,  was  entitled  "  The  Victory  over  One  Hundred 
and  Four  Devils  "  ;  and  only  the  Lamas  understood 
how  to  outwit  the  devils. 

In  cases  of  illness  they  employed  various  methods. 
Sometimes  they  made  huge  images  of  animals, 
charmed  the  devils  into  the  images,  and  threw  the 
images  into  the  fire  ;  sometimes  they  gave  the  patient 
pills  ;  sometimes  they  WTote  out  prescriptions  and 
told  the  people  to  swallow  the  paper ;  and  some- 
times, in  return  for  a  fee,  they  said  many  long  prayers. 
In  cases,  however,  of  drought  or  bad  harvest,  they 
employed  a  still  more  sensational  method.  At  the 
special  request  of  the  head  of  the  house,  a  number  of 
Lamas  seated  themselves,  in  solemn  array,  on  his 
drawing-room  carpet ;  there,  for  several  hours  in 
succession,  with  brief  intervals  for  refreshment,  they 
read  books  aloud,  beat  drums  and  clanged  cymbals  ; 
and  then  the  head  Lama,  supported  by  two 
trumpeters,  stood  before  a  blazing  brazier  placed 
in  the  family  altar,  hurled  books  and  images  into  the 
fire,  and  announced  that,  as  the  devils  were  now 
departing,  the  boys  of  the  house  might  catch  them 
in  sacks,  while  the  adults  attacked  them  with  sabres 
and  rifles.  But  even  yet  the  work  was  not  complete. 
In  case  any  devils  still  survived  on  the  premises, 
another  fire  was  now  lighted  in  the  open-air  ;  into  this 


368        A  History  or  Moravian  Missions. 

fire  images  of  Buddha  were  thrown  ;  and  finally, 
the  head  Lama  announced  that  all  the  devils  were 
now  either  routed  or  roasted.  Thus  had  the  Lamas, 
from  time  immemorial,  held  the  peasants  of  Western 
Tibet  in  terror.  For  all  their  services,  medical  and 
spiritual,  they  charged  handsome  fees ;  many  of 
them,  while  posing  as  pious,  were  both  besotted  and 
immoral ;  and,  at  the  houses  of  the  rich,  they  showed 
their  appreciation  of  good  victuals."}" 

2.  The  Doctrine  of  Merit.  In  addition,  however, 
to  driving  out  devils,  the  Lamas  laid  great  stress  on 
the  doctrine  of  merit ;  this  doctrine  lay  at  the  root 
of  the  people's  character  ;  and  the  interesting  feature 
in  the  doctrine  is  that,  while  in  appearance  it  had  a 
certain  ethical  basis,  and  might  almost  be  called  the 
doctrine  of  salvation  by  works,  yet  in  reality,  when 
closely  examined,  it  gave  such  a  perverted  view  of 
life  that  no  person,  holding  it  sincerely,  could  by 
any  possibility  accept  the  Christian  religion. 

Let  us  see  precisely  how  this  was  the  case. 
According  to  the  Lamas  there  were  four  ways  of 
gaining  merit ;  and  each,  while  looking  excellent, 
was  morally  corrupt. 

The  first  method  was  to  keep  the  Ten  Command- 
ments, and  the  Ten  Commandments  in  Western 
Tibet  were  as  follows  : — 

(1)     Thou  shalt  not  kill  any  living  thing.* 

■fThe  reader  must  not  be  deceived  by  the  description  of  the  Lama 
in  Rudyard  Kipling's  Kim.  Rudyard  Kipling's  picture  is  true 
to  life,  but  his  hero  was  an  exceptional  character. 

*Why  not  ?  Because  any  living  thing  might  contain  the  soul  of 
a  human  being.  If  a  man,  e.g.,  trod  on  a  beetle  he  might 
be  killing  his  great-grandfather.  For  breaches  of  the  First 
Commandment  the  usual  punishment  was — so,  at  least,  the 
Lamas  taught — that  the  murderer,  in  his  next  existence, 
took  the  form  of  the  animal  he  had  killed.  If  a  man,  e.g., 
killed  an  ibex,  he  would  be  bom  as  an  ibex.  And  this  rule 
even  applied  to  animals.  If  a  wolf  killed  a  sheep,  the  wolf, 
after  death,  would  be  re-bom  as  a  sheep. 


Western  Tibet.  869 

(2)  Thou  shalt  not  take  what  is  not  given  to 

thee. 

(3)  Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery. 

(4)  Thou  shalt  not  speak  evil  of  another. 

(5)  Thou   shalt   not   talk   nonsense. 

(6)  Thou  shalt  not  slander. 

(7)  Thou  shalt  not  covet. 

(8)  Thou  shalt  not  plan  injury. 

(9)  Thou  shalt  not  he. 

(10)     Thou  shalt  not  hold  heretical  views. 

But  here  the  doctrine  of  merit  spoiled  the  picture. 
According  to  the  Lamas  these  Commandments 
were  good,  not  because  they  taught  any  high  moral 
principle,  but  simply  because,  by  keeping  them,  the 
devotee  might  lay  up  so  much  merit ;  neither  the 
Lamas  nor  the  people  valued  character  for  its  own 
sake  ;  and,  therefore,  there  was  a  constant  tendency 
to  keep  the  Commandments  in  the  letter  and  break 
them  in  spirit.  Let  one  example  suffice.  In  theory, 
no  Tibetan  would  kill  an  animal ;  in  practice, 
he  managed  to  evade  the  precept.  On  one  occasion 
Pagell,  at  Poo,  witnessed  a  ciu-ious  performance. 
First,  the  \'illain,  seizing  a  goat,  plugged  its  mouth 
and  nose  ;  then  he  sat  on  it  till  it  was  dead  ;  and  then 
he  informed  the  missionary  that  the  animal  had  died 
a  natural  death.  Such  scenes  were  of  common 
occurrence.  As  long  as  the  Tibetan  shed  no  blood, 
he  considered  that  he  had  not  taken  life ;  and  if 
the  animal  died  of  suffocation,  that  was  the  animal's 
fault. 

The  second  method  of  acquiring  merit  was  reading 
books.  But  the  word  "  reading  "  in  Western  Tibet 
had  not  quite  the  same  meaning  as  in  England.  In 
England  to  read,  as  a  rule,  is  to  understand  ;  in 
Western  Tibet  it  is  merely  pronouncing  the  words  ; 
in  England  people  read  books  either  for  instruction  or 
for  amusement  ;    in  Western  Tibet  the  Lamas  read, 


370        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

not  to  improve  their  own  minds,  but  simply  to 
acquire  so  much  merit ;  and,  therefore,  their  great 
object  was  to  read  as  many  books  as  possible  in  the 
shortest  possible  time.  For  this  purpose  the  books 
in  the  Lamasary  libraries  were  specially  adapted. 
Instead  of  being  bound  in  volumes  like  ours,  they 
consisted  of  loose  pages,  about  ten-and-a-half  feet 
long,  and  one  foot  wide,  which,  lying  flat,  were 
enclosed  in  two  boards,  like  music  in  a  portfolio  ; 
and  thus  the  Lamas  could  split  the  book  into 
parts  and,  each  taking  so  many  pages,  read  in 
chorus.  The  more  Lamas  joined,  the  faster  the 
reading ;  and  the  faster  the  reading,  the  greater 
quantity  of  merit.  Sometimes  five  hundred  Lamas, 
by  joining  forces,  would  read  a  whole  library  in  two 
days.  They  sat  in  rows,  read  at  express  speed, 
and  rocked  their  bodies  to  and  fro. 

With  regard  to  the  nature  of  these  books,  our 
information  is  imperfect.  According  to  the  Lamas, 
they  were  mostly  translations  from  the  Sanskrit, 
were  written  by  holy  men  of  old,  and,  like  the  Bible, 
contained  not  merely  the  story  of  the  Creation  and 
the  Fall,  but  also  the  plan  of  salvation. 

But  what  the  plan  of  salvation  was  the  Lamas 
never  explained.  Some  of  the  books  were  written 
in  dead  languages  ;  others  contained  merely  legends 
and  incantations  ;  and  the  less  the  book  could  be 
understood,  the  more  highly  it  was  valued. 

"  If  the  book  is  clear,"  said  the  Lamas,  "it  is 
shallow  ;    if  it  is  unintelligible,  it  is  deep." 

"  Your  religion,"  said  a  Lama  to  Heyde,  "  cannot 
be  of  much  use  ;   anybody  can  understand  it." 

Among  the  laity  similar  views  were  held.  The  rich 
engaged  the  Lamas  to  read  in  their  libraries  ;  the 
poor  listened  to  Lamas  reading  in  public ;  and 
neither  rich  nor  poor  endeavoured  to  understand 
a  word.     Why,  then,  asked  the  Tibetans,    did   the 


Western'  Tibet.  371 

missionary  read  the  Bible  at  Church  ?     Simply  to 
acquire  merit  for  himself. 

The  third  method  of  acquiring  merit  was  prayer. 
But  this  word,  "  Prayer,"  must  not  mislead  us. 
In  Christian  countries  prayer  means  communion 
with  God ;  in  Western  Tibet  it  is  merely  word- 
repetition.  For  centuries  the  most  popular  prayer 
there  had  been  the  famous  "  Om  Mani  Padme  hung,"j 
i.e.,  "A  jewel  in  the  Lotus,  oh."  This  prayer  was 
commonly  regarded  as  a  charm  against  all  forms  of 
trouble,  and  though  hardly  anyone  seems  to  have 
known  its  origin  or  its  meaning,  the  general  idea 
was  that  the  more  frequently  it  was  repeated  the 
more  merit  accrued  to  the  population.  In  some  of 
the  Lamaseries  the  Brethren  found  huge  cylinders, 
lined  inside  with  gold  paper.  On  the  gold  paper 
the  aforesaid  prayer  was  printed  millions  of  times  ; 
the  machine  was  turned  by  a  crank ;  and  one 
missionary,  Becker  Shawe,  expressed  the  opinion  that 
if  steam  were  introduced  into  Tibet  the  Lamas  would 
use  it  to  drive  their  prayer-wheels.  But  the 
laity  were  almost  as  fervent  as  the  Lamas.  Each 
house  possessed  its  private  prayer- wheel ;  the  larger 
the  wheel  the  more  prayers  it  contained ;  and  the  more 
rapidly  it  spun  the  more  merit  the  family  acquired. 
Nor  was  this  enough  for  the  Tibetans.  On  the 
banks  of  the  river  stood  prayer-wheels  turned  by 
water  ;  on  the  roofs  of  the  houses  prayer-wheels  were 
turned  by  the  wind  ;  some  of  the  kitchens  had  prayer- 
wheels  turned  by  hot  air  ;  and  the  same  prayer  was 
inscribed  on  rocks  and  trees,  on  little  stones  adorning 
the  walls,  and  on  flags  and  banners.  The  house- 
wife spun  her  wheel  in  the  kitchen  ;  the  labourer 
spun   his  wheel  in  the  fields ;     and   the  merchant, 

iThe  last  syllable  is  generally  printed  "  hum."  Dr.  Hebsr, 
however,  who  has  lived  for  some  years  at  Leh,  informs  me  that 
"  hung  "  gives  (he  usual  pronunciation. 


372        A  History  of  Moeatian  Missions. 

riding  home  from  Lhasa,  spun  his  wheel  on  the 
mountain  bridle-path. 

"  I  hope,"  said  Dr.  Marx  to  a  patient  in  the  Leh 
Hospital,  "  that  you  understand  what  I  said  about 
prayer." 

"  Yes,"  said  the  patient,  "  you  mean  that  I  must 
never  forget  my   '  Om  Mani  Padme  hung.'  " 

The  fourth  method  of  acquiring  merit  was  suffering. 
According  to  the  Lamas,  all  suffering  was  closely 
connected  with  sin  ;  suffering,  they  said,  was  simply 
the  method  whereby  atonement  for  sin  was  made  ; 
by  suffering,  and  suffering  alone,  could  the  soul  be 
purified  ;  and  this  process  must  be  continued  until 
the  purification  was  complete.  As,  however,  one 
short  life  on  this  earth  was  not  in  most  cases  sufficient 
for  this  great  purpose,  the  sinner  must  be  born 
again,  sometimes  in  the  form  of  a  beast  or  insect; 
and  only  thus  could  sinful  men  be  made  fit  for  Nirvana. 

Let  us  now  see  how  this  doctrine  of  merit  affected 
the  progress  of  the  Mission.  The  point  needs  to 
be  stated  with  great  precision.  As  the  Tibetans 
worked,  read,  prayed,  and  suffered  simply  to  acquire 
merit,  they  very  naturally  argued  that  all  other 
men,  all  the  world  over,  acted  from  the  same  selfish 
motive  ;  no  other  motive  was  to  them  conceivable  ; 
no  such  thing  as  pure  unselfishness  existed  ;  and  on 
this  principle  they  judged  the  conduct  of  the 
missionaries.  Why  did  the  missionaries  come  to 
Western  Tibet  ?  To  gain  merit  for  themselves. 
Why  did  they  teach  the  children  and  distribute 
medicines  to  the  poor  ?  To  gain  merit  for  themselves. 
Why  did  the  doctor  rise  from  his  couch,  trudge  ten 
miles  through  the  snow,  and  attend  a  suffering 
peasant  free  of  charge  ?  To  gain  merit  for  himself. 
And  why  did  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  laj^  His  glory  by, 
take  upon  Him  the  form  of  a  servant,  and  suffer  on 
Calvary  ?     To  gain  merit  for  Himself. 


Western  Tibet.  878 

3.  Financial  Tyranny.  The  most  terrible  part 
of  the  story  still  remains.  "  The  Lamas,"  says  Miss 
Jane  Ellen  Duncan,  "are  the  money-lenders  of  the 
country,"  and  all  the  missionaries  give  the  same  testi- 
mony. At  critical  times  when  money  is  scarce  and 
hard  to  obtain,  the  Lamas  charge  very  high  rates  of 
interest,  and,  if  the  debtor  cannot  pay  at  the  stipulated 
time,  he  is  told  that  in  his  next  existence  he  will 
take  the  form  of  some  loathsome  beast.  Thus  the 
rule  of  the  Lamas  in  Tibet  is  really  a  rule  of  terror. 
Many  of  the  peasants  are  in  debt  to  the  Lamas.  "  This 
debt  business,"  said  Schreve,  a  Moravian  missionary, 
"  is  the  hardest  part  of  our  work  among  Christians," 
and,  judging  by  that  remark,  I  have  sometimes  feared 
that,  so  long  as  this  cruel  system  exists,  the  Moravian 
missionaries  in  Western  Tibet  may  continue  to  plough 
upon  a  rock. 


Chapter  IV. 

THE  LEPER  HOME  AT  JERUSALEM, 
1867—1914. 

1865  As  the  Baron  and  Baroness  Keffenbrink-Ascheraden 

were  on  a  visit  to  Jerusalem  they  saw,  behind  a  garden 
wall,  a  group  of  Arabian  begging  lepers,  and  the 
Baroness,  being  touched  by  their  distress,  appealed 
forthwith  to  Dr.  Gopat,  Bishop  of  Jerusalem,  and 
promised  that,  if  he  and  his  friends  would  build  a 
Leper  Home,  she  would  be  responsible  for  the 
expense.  Dr.  Gopat  formed  a  local  Committee ; 
Dr.  Chaplin,  an  English  practitioner,  promised  to  be 
house-physician  ;  and  a  few  months  later,  at  the 
Baroness's  expense,  a  small  hospital  was  erected 
outside  the  Jaffa  Gate.  With  this,  however,  the 
Baroness  was  not  content.  In  order  that  the  new 
hospital  might  be  under  efficient  Christian  manage- 
ment, she  now  appealed  to  the  Moravian  Mission 
Board,  and  suggested  that  the  Moravian  Church 
should  provide  a  House-Father.  The  Moravian 
Mission  Board  agreed ;  F.  Tappe  and  his  wife  were 
summoned  from  Labrador  ;  and  on  Ascension  Day, 
1867  (May  21st),  the  first  Leper  Home  in  the  history 
of  Palestine  was  opened. 

1867  The  next  task  was  to  make  provision  for  the  future 

maintenance  of  the  Home.  The  Baroness  now 
turned  her  attention  to  England.  For  some  years 
a  well-known  English  Moravian  Bishop,  James 
La  Trobe,  had  taken  a  special  interest  in  lepers  ; 
among  other  things  he  had  written  a  pamphlet 
entitled  "  Work  Among  the  Lepers,"  describing  the 
Moravian  work  at  Hemel-en-Aarde  and  Robben 
Island  ;    and  the  Baroness,   having  been  presented 

(374) 


The  Leper  Home  at  Jerusalem.  375 

with  a  copy  by  a  school-girl,  now  wrote  to  Bishop 
La  Trobe  and  asked  him  to  use  his  influence  on  behalf 
of  the  new  hospital.  In  response  to  her  request, 
the  Bishop  had  her  letter  printed  in  the 
"  Messenger,"  the  montlily  magazine  of  the  Mo^a^^an 
Church  in  England ;  local  collectors  were  soon 
appointed  in  most  of  the  English  congregations ; 
and  Bishop  La  Trobe,  at  the  Baroness's  request, 
acted  as  English  Secretar\\  Thus,  at  the  outset, 
English  ]Mora\ians  learned  to  take  an  interest  in  the 
Leper  Home.  During  the  first  few  years  the  annual 
cost  was  only  about  £250,  and  two-thirds  of  this  sum 
came  from  England,  and  later,  when  the  annual 
cost  was  £1,000,  half  the  sum  came  from  England. 
In  due  course  the  American  Province  also  became  a 
regular  contributor ;  the  Swiss  Moravians,  though 
few  in  number,  gave  according  to  their  abihty ; 
and  the  general  arrangement  was  that  while 
Moravians  all  over  the  world  were  expected  to  aid 
the  cause  financially,  the  continental  ]Moravians 
supplied  the  house-parents  and  the  nurses.  For 
thirteen  years  the  Baroness  herself,  aided  by  the 
Jerusalem  Committee,  acted  as  General  Manager ; 
then,  at  her  special  request,  the  Moravian  Church 
took  formal  charge  (1881),  and  henceforward  the  1881 
Leper  Home,  like  the  Foreign  Missions  and  the 
work  in  Bohemia,  was  the  joint  responsibility  of  all 
three  Pro\-inces.  At  the  General  SjTiod  in  1889 
some  further  regulations  were  made.  In  future  the 
General  SvTiod  was  to  be  the  final  authority.  In  the  1889 
intervals  between  Synods  there  was  to  be  a  Central 
Administrative  Board  of  three,  elected  by  the  General 
Synod ;  the  old  Jerusalem  Local  Committee  still 
rendered  assistance ;  and  the  Enghsh,  American 
and  Swiss  Secretaries  were  corresponding  members 
of  the  Administrative  Board.  From  the  opening  day 
till  1908  the  Home  was  under  three  different  house- 


876        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

fathers.  The  first,  F.  Tappe,  served  sixteen  years 
(1867-1883),  i.e.,  till  his  health  broke  down  ;  the 
second,  Fritz  Miiller,  served  eight  years  (1883- 
1891) ;  and  the  third,  Karl  Schubert,  served  seven- 
teen years  (1891-1908),  and  died  suddenly  of  heart 
disease  in  the  Home.  The  case  of  Schubert  was 
exceptionally  pathetic.  For  six  months  before  his 
end  he  suffered  from  a  very  painful  disease.  In 
order  that  he  might  do  his  duties,  lie  had  to  be  carried 
about  in  a  chair  ;  so  swollen  were  his  arms  and  hands 
that  he  could  not  play  his  zither  ;  and  yet  he  refused 
to  return  home  for  treatment  except  on  the  under- 
standing that,  after  a  year's  furlough,  he  should  be 
allowed  to  resume  his  work.  Some  weeks  before 
his  death  he  had  a  strange  dream.  He  had  died, 
and  was  in  the  Heavenly  Jerusalem.  There,  to  his 
joy,  he  was  informed  that  he  might  be  the  door- 
keeper at  the  Jaffa  Gate ;  there,  in  his  room 
beside  the  gate,  he  found  his  zither,  changed  to 
pure  gold,  and  the  instrument,  at  the  touch 
of  his  fingers,  rendered  music  sweeter  than  any 
on  earth. 

For  their  self-denying  labours,  neither  the 
house-parents  nor  their  assistants  received 
much  earthly  reward.  The  house-parents  had 
their  board  and  £50  a  year ;  the  nurses  their 
board  and  5s.  a  week ;  and  the  local 
physician,  who  came  twice  a  week,  an  annual 
honorarium    of    £30. 

On  Schubert's  death  an  important  change  took 
1908  place.  The  office  of  house-father  was  abolished, 
the  Home  was  placed  under  a  matron,  and  an 
evangelist  was  appointed.  At  first  the  lepers  did  not 
approve  of  the  change.  In  the  past,  they  said,  they 
had  been  under  a  man,  now  they  were  under  a  mere 
woman,  and  a  little  natural  grumbling  was  the  result. 
Nevertheless,  the  change  was  justified  ;    the  matron, 


The  Leper  Home  at  Jerusalem.  877 

Miss  Elizabeth  Muller,t  soon  gained  the  affection 
of  her  patients  ;  and  the  sufferers  often  showed  their 
gratitude,  both  to  her  and  to  the  nurses,  by  bringing 
flowers. 

Meanwhile,  the  Home  had  slowly  but  surely  been 
increasing  in  popularity.  In  the  years  1868-70  the 
average  number  of  patients  was  only  thirteen ;  in 
1870-87  eighteen;  in  1888-98  between  twenty  and 
thirty  ;  and  in  1898-1914  between  forty  and  fifty. 
During  all  this  period  most  of  the  patients  were 
Mahometans ;  no  religious  test,  of  course,  was 
imposed ;  and  the  Christians  came  from  various 
denominations.  In  1912,  e.g.,  thirty-eight  of  the 
patients  were  Mahometans,  only  seven  were 
Christians,  and  those  Christians  comprised  three 
members  of  the  Greek  Church,  one  Protestant  and 
three  Roman  Catholics. 

Meanwhile,  also,  a  change  had  taken  place  in  the 
building.  For  twenty  years  the  Baroness's  hospital 
rendered  excellent  service  ;  both  the  English  and  the 
Swiss  Mora%*ians  enlarged  it  by  adding  a  room ; 
and  thus  the  ideal  was  upheld  that  each  patient  should 
have  at  least  1,200  cubic  feet  of  fresh  air. 

At  length,  however,  in  1887,  a  new  and  larger  1887 
Leper  Home  was  built.  The  site  chosen  was  the 
north  side  of  the  valley  of  Rephaim.  As  Rephaim 
was  then  a  mere  desert,  some  of  the  people  in  the 
neighbourhood  thought  that  Fritz  Miiller  was  insane. 
But  Miiller  was  really  building  on  good  soil.  There 
King  Da^-id,  in  days  of  old,  had  heard  the  wind 
in  the  mulberry  trees  ;  there,  if  trees  had  once  grown, 
trees  might  grow  again  ;  and  acting  on  this  sound 
principle,  Miiller  had  many  large  stones  removed 
and  laid  out  a  garden  and  fields.  As  the  Leper  Home 
is  on  the  side  of  a  hill,  it  can  easUy  be  seen  from  a  long 

•fA  sister  of  Dr.  J.  T.  Muller,  the  archivist  at  Hermhut,  and  author 
of  aeveral  valuable  works  on  Moravian  Church  history. 


378        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

distance.  It  stands  about  a  mile  south-west  of  the 
city.  Above  the  front  door  is  engraved  the  name 
"  Jesus  Hilfe,"  i.e.,  "Jesus'  Help";  the  front  of  the 
house  faces  south  ;  below  the  front  door  there  is  a 
fine  flight  of  steps  ;  and  from  the  garden  gate  to  the 
steps  there  is  a  path  about  fifty  yards  long.  The 
Home  is  two  stories  high,  and  is  built  in  Eastern 
style.  In  the  middle  there  is  an  open  court,  cool 
and  shady ;  around  this  court  runs  a  gallery,  or 
balcony,  on  pillars  ;  and  from  the  court  and  the 
balcony  respectively  branch  off  the  lower  and  upper 
stories.  The  Home  accommodates  about  fifty 
patients.  In  course  of  time  various  improvements 
were  added.  In  1900  a  large  cistern  was  built;  later, 
a  disinfecting  machine  and  an  isolation  room  for 
extreme  cases  were  provided ;  and,  aided  largely 
by  the  patients,  the  house-parents  made  the  garden 
beautiful.  Fritz  Miiller  planted  fig  trees  and  mul- 
berry trees ;  the  front  of  the  house  was  made 
bright  with  clematis  and  roses ;  and  the  Lepers 
themselves  planted  a  grove  and  called  it  "  Paradise." 
Let  us  now  see  how,  in  this  Leper  Home,  the  Moravian 
Church  has  attempted  three  tasks. 

1.  The  Relief  of  Suffering.  According  to  Dr. 
Einsler,  of  Jerusalem — Dr.  Chaplin's  successor  as 
house-physician — modern  leprosy  in  Palestine  differs 
in  two  respects  from  that  described  in  the  Bible. 
Formerly,  the  skin  turned  white  as  snow ;  now, 
though  it  grows  numb,  and  rots,  it  retains  its  natural 
colour.  Formerly,  some  cases  were  cured ;  Dr. 
Einsler  found  all  cases  incurable.  The  modern 
disease  takes  two  distinct  forms.  In  most  cases  it 
attacks  the  bones,  and  causes  the  limbs  to  fall  off ; 
in  other  cases  it  attacks  the  nervous  system  ;  and 
the  latter  kind  has  been  found  the  more  difficult  to 
treat.  But  in  all  cases  it  is  repulsive  to  behold,  and 
causes  severe  pain.     By  the  Jews  it  is  called  the 


The  Leper  Home  at  Jerusalem.  379 

Scourge  of  God,  and  by  the  Greeks  the  Son  of  Death, 
and  Fritz  Miiller,  in  one  of  his  reports,  described  it 
as  the  most  frightful  disease  on  earth.  The  patients 
themselves  gave  similar  testimony.  Soon  after  the 
new  Home  was  opened,  Salich,  in  the  name  of  all 
the  patients,  wTote  a  beautiful  letter  of  thanksgi\'ing  ; 
and  yet  he  felt  justified  in  saying  how  terribly  he 
and  his  fellow-patients  suffered.  "  God  the  Highest," 
he  wrote,  "  has  visited  us  with  this  painful  disease. 
The  burden  which  He  has  thus  laid  upon  us  is  great 
and  heavy,  and  at  times  scarcely  to  be  borne.  Some- 
times we  toss  about  upon  our  beds  \vith  inexpressible 
aches  and  pains,  such  as  human  understanding  can 
scarcely  comprehend."  In  that  description  there 
was  no  exaggeration.  At  nearly  every  stage  the 
disease  is  painful,  and  the  last  stages  are  the  worst. 
The  first  symptom  is  merely  a  slight  itch  or  stinging 
sensation.  But  as  soon  as  that  symptom  appears 
the  victim  knows  that  he  is  doomed.  And  now  the 
disease  makes  irresistible  progress.  First,  beneath 
the  skin,  hard  lumps  develop,  then  the  bone  itself 
is  exposed  and  attacked  ;  and,  sooner  or  later,  the 
whole  limb  is  destroyed.  In  some  cases  there  is 
hemorrhage,  and  the  patient  dies  of  exhaustion  ; 
in  others  the  mouth  and  throat  are  attacked,  and  the 
patient  struggles  in  vain  for  breath  ;  and  some  of  the 
death-bed  scenes  the  house-parents  witnessed  may 
truly  be  described  as  appalling. 

In  vain  Dr.  Einsler  sought  for  a  remedy.  At 
various  times  rumours  reached  Jerusalem  that 
some  curative  medicine  had  been  discovered ; 
Dr.  Einsler  always  gave  such  remedies  a  trial ; 
and  three  deserve  special  mention.  The  first  was 
an  Indian  remedy,  Cholmogran  Oil ;  the  second 
a  popular  anodyne,  Gurguin  Oil;  and  the  third, 
Nastine,  a  scrum  invented  by  Dr.  Deycke,  of 
Bombay.      Dr.  Einsler  had  some  faith  in  the  first, 


880        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

and  found  that  it  acted  as  a  tonic ;  the  second 
alleviated  pain  a  little ;  but  the  only  observable 
effect  of  the  third  was  a  diminution  in  the  patient's 
vitality.  In  cases  where  the  pain  caused  insomnia, 
Dr.  Einsler  often  used  sleeping  draughts.  For  the 
rest,  fresh  air  and  good  nursing  helped  to  make  life 
endurable.  Each  morning  the  patient's  wounds  were 
dressed  with  carbolic  acid,  and  those  who  were  not 
quite  bedridden  had  regular  baths.  The  daily 
food  was  both  nutritious  and  appetising.  At  break- 
fast, taken  in  bed,  the  usual  fare  was  bread,  tea, 
and  sometimes  olives  soaked  in  salt  water ;  at 
dinner,  meat,  vegetables,  rice,  and  sometimes  soup; 
and  at  supper,  which  the  patients  were  allowed  to 
prepare  themselves,  bread,  soup,  eggs,  fruit,  and 
dainties  sent  in  by  friends. 

But  the  house-parents  did  not  rely  entirely  on 
physical  treatment.  In  order  to  prevent  the  lepers 
from  moping,  and  acting  on  the  principle  that 
congenial  labour  physics  pain,  the  house-parents 
laid  down  the  rule  that  every  leper  medically  fit 
should  do  at  least  four  hours'  work  a  day.  But  the 
lepers  did  not  work  for  the  mere  sake  of  working  ; 
the  work  itself  had  always  some  obvious  value ; 
and  thus  the  lepers  were  made  to  feel  that  they  were 
rendering  useful  service.  For  the  men  there  was 
generally  work  in  abundance.  They  tended  the 
cattle  in  the  fields,  cleared  the  garden  of  stones,  tilled 
the  soil,  and  helped,  when  the  need  arose,  to  build 
the  new  cistern.  For  the  women  equally  useful 
work  was  found.  Some  scrubbed  the  stone  floors  ; 
some  did  coarse  sewing  ;  some  sat  in  the  open  air 
grinding  corn ;  and  some,  too  weak  for  such 
tasks,  spun  wool  in  the  easy  Arabian  style.  Some- 
times the  house-father  offered  rewards  for  some 
special  work,  and  occasionally  the  lepers  were  in- 
formed that  until  a  certain  task  was  finished,  some 


The  Leper  Home  at  Jerusalem.  381 

expected  treat  could  not  be  given.  For  all,  too,  some 
homely  amusement  was  found,  and  every  patient 
was  encouraged  to  have  a  hobby.  Some  kept  fowls, 
sold  eggs,  and  thereby  earned  a  little  pocket-money  ; 
some  grew  flowers  ;  and  some  even  learned  to  make 
musical  instruments.  Nor  were  intellectual  interests 
lacking.  In  spite  of  their  pain,  most  of  the  lepers 
seemed  to  enjoy  the  cool  and  quiet  evening  hour ; 
and  while  some  merely  smoked  and  mused,  others 
read  the  Bible,  the  Koran,  and  other  books  in  the 
Home,  plied  the  nurses  ^^•ith  questions,  and,  like 
their  Arab  forefathers,  told  tales  till  darkness  fell. 
At  the  time  of  the  Russo-Japanese  War,  they  were 
all  keenly  interested  in  politics,  and,  aided  by  a  map 
provided  by  Schubert,  they  followed  the  move- 
ments of  the  armies.  At  other  times  there  were  other 
forms  of  amusement.  In  the  'w-inter  there  would  be 
snowball  fights  ;  in  the  summer  races  and  open-air 
games  ;  and  recently  many  of  the  lepers  have  found 
great  pleasure  in  flying  kites.  Most  of  them  also 
loved  both  poetry  and  dancing,  and  the  dramatic 
instinct  was  strongly  developed.  The  most  popular 
form  of  amusement  was  the  fantasia,  i.e.,  a  dance 
with  a  definite  meaning.  Each  movement  in  such  a 
dance  was  supposed,  just  like  a  word  or  picture,  to 
express  some  idea,  and  one  fantasia  was  even  described 
as  a  "  fantasia  unto  the  Lord."  Sometimes,  to  make 
the  meaning  quite  clear,  dance  and  song  were  com- 
bined. At  the  wedding,  e.g.,  of  Dr.  Dalman,  a  member 
of  the  Local  Committee,  the  lepers  gave  a  grand 
marriage  fantasia,  and  the  following  Arabic  love- 
song  was  sung  : — 

I  sec  thy  cheeks,  oh  maiden, 

I  see  thy  eyes. 
Why  should  the  voice  of  weeping  in 

Thy  father's  home  arise  ? 


882        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Or  why  should  I  complain  that  thou 
Thy  friends  hast  left  behind  ? 

I  see  thy  cheeks  and  arching  brows  ; 
And  thus  I  speak  my  mind  : 

Of  thousands  thou  the  chosen  art ; 
No  fairer  can  I  find. 

Thus,  by  means  of  work  and  play,  did  the  lepers 
endeavour  to  forget  their  troubles. 

But  the  chief  and  best  remedy  used  was  Christian 
sympathy.  As  soon  as  the  sufferer  entered  the  Home, 
he  found  himself  in  a  new  world.  In  Palestine 
lepers  are  generally  known  as  "  the  poor,"  and  the 
term  "  poor  "  is  a  term  of  contempt.  On  the  high- 
ways the  leper  was  a  vagabond  ;  in  the  Home  he 
was  a  brother.  Outside  he  was  regarded  as  a  criminal, 
visited  by  a  just  God  for  his  sins  ;  inside  he  was  a 
child  whom  the  Father  loved.  At  Christmas  the 
Home  was  made  a  Palace  of  Delight.  For  all  the 
lepers  there  were  presents  from  Christian  friends 
in  other  lands.  The  Christmas  Tree  was  adorned  ; 
Christmas  carols  were  sung  ;  the  story  of  the  Birth  at 
Bethlehem  was  read  ;  and,  though  no  attempt  was 
made  to  interfere  with  the  distinctive  creeds  of 
the  inmates,  all  the  lepers  were  given  to  understand 
that  the  real  giver  of  the  presents  was  the  Friend  of 
Sinners.  Another  much-prized  treat  was  the  annual 
excursion.  In  order  to  stimulate  wholesome  industry, 
the  house-father  would  sometimes  announce,  a  few 
weeks  before  the  great  day,  that  only  the  well-behaved 
would  be  allowed  to  go,  and  then  it  was  interesting 
to  notice  how  the  laziest  dug  in  the  garden,  how  the 
sulky  beamed  and  smiled,  and  how  even  the  most 
bigoted  Mahometans  would  attend  morning  prayers. 
The  direction  of  the  annual  excursion  varied.  Some- 
times there  was  a  drive  in  waggons  to  Hebron  ; 
sometimes  the  Jordan  Valley  was  explored,  and  the 


The  Leper  Home  at  Jerusalem.  383 

patients  strolled  by  the  Dead  Sea  ;  and  sometimes, 
in  later  years,  they  have  even  taken  train  to  Joppa, 
and  gazed  on  the  blue  waters  of  the  3Iediterranean. 

2.     The  Destruction  of  Leprosy.     At  the  time  when 
the  Home  was  opened  the  total  number  of  lepers  in 
Palestine    was   estimated    as    only    three    hundred, 
and  the  Brethren,   therefore,   entertained  the  hope 
that  if  they  could  persuade  all  these  lepers  to  enter 
the  Home,  they  might  be  able,  in  a  few  years,  to 
stamp  out  the  disease.     But  now  arose  a  question 
about  the  right  method.     Is  the  disease  hereditary, 
or    not  ?     On    the    answer    to    that    question    the 
Moravian  Church  had  to  base  its  policy  ;    and  the 
difficulty  was   that   opinions   differed.     At  a  Leper 
Congress  held  in  Berlin  (1907)  the   pronouncement 
was  made  that,   while  leprosy  is  contagious,   it  is 
certainly  not  hereditary,  and  therefore,  while  it  was 
necessary  that  lepers  should  be  isolated,  and  live  all 
together  in  one  home,  there  was  no  reason  why,  in 
that  home,  marriage  should  not  be  permitted.     With 
this   opinion,    however.   Dr.   Einsler,   the   Jerusalem 
physician,  disagreed  ;    the  Moravian  authorities  felt 
bound  to  act  on  his  advice  ;    and,  therefore,  in  the 
Leper  Home,  marriage  was  not  permitted.     By  two 
methods,  therefore,  the  Moravians  hoped  to  exter- 
minate leprosy  in  Palestine.     First,  they  would  gather 
all  lepers  into  the  Home,  and  secondly,  they  would 
prevent  the  disease  being  handed  on  to  the  next 
generation.     Why,  then,  it  may  be  asked,  has  this 
noble    ambition     not     been    realised  ?      For    three 
reasons  :   First,  because  there  has  ne%'er  been  enough 
money    to    build  a   large  enough  Home  ;    secondly, 
because    many    lepers  in  Palestine  still  prefer  their 
liberty ;    and  thirdly,   because  some    of   the    lepers 
themselves  unintentionally  thwarted  the  Brethren's 
efforts.      The  conduct  of  the  Turkish  Government  was 
deplorable.     Instead  of  encoui"aging  the  Moravians  in 


884        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

their  efforts,  the  Turkish  officials  at  Jerusalem  opened 
a  rival  lieper  Shelter  at  Siloah.  There  the  lepers  slept 
in  filthy  cells  swarming  with  vermin ;  no  doctor, 
no  nurses,  and  no  medicine  were  provided  ;  and  the 
one  superior  attraction  in  the  Shelter  was  that  there 
the  lepers  were  allowed  to  marry  and  propagate  their 
species.  In  the  Turkish  Leper  Home  children  were 
born ;  in  the  Moravian  Home  the  sexes  were 
separated  ;  and  the  consequence  was  that  of  the  two 
institutions,  the  Turkish  Shelter  was  preferred 
by  many.  In  vain  the  Moravian  nurses  visited 
Siloah,  and  urged  the  patients  to  enter  the 
Moravian  Home.  Most  of  the  patients  returned  the 
same  answer  :  "  We  should  all  come  to  you,"  they 
said,  "  if  you  did  not  separate  us."  Thus  did  the 
Turkish  Government  baffie  the  efforts  of  the  Moravian 
Church  to  exterminate  leprosy  in  Palestine. 

3.  The  Gospel  Message.  We  come  here  to  a 
question  frequently  asked.  Is  the  Leper  Home 
merely  a  hospital,  or  is  it  also  a  religious  institution  ? 
Do  the  nurses  merely  alleviate  suffering,  or  do  they 
also  try  to  win  souls  for  Christ  ?  Do  they  try 
to  change  Mahometans  into  Christians  ?  The 
question  cannot  be  answered  in  one  sentence.  The 
position  was  dif!icult  and  delicate.  At  the  outset 
Bishop  Gopat  declared  that,  while  the  staff  would 
always  do  their  best  to  relieve  suffering,  their  chief 
purpose  was  to  lead  the  patients  "  to  the  Good 
Physician,"  and  yet,  while  the  house-parents  and  the 
nurses  really  did  make  that  their  ambition,  they 
were  unable  to  employ  the  usual  missionary  methods. 
To  preach  Christ  to  a  Mahometan  was  to  insult 
him,  and  to  insult  him  was  to  drive  him  from  tlic 
Home.  For  forty-five  years,  therefore  (1867-1912) 
the  Home  was  managed  on  the  principle  that,  while 
regular  services  were  held,  none  but  professing 
Christians   were   bound  to   attend  :     no  Mahometan 


The  Leper  Home  at  Jerusalem.         885 

was  ever  told  that  his  religion  was  false  or  imperfect ; 
and  all  the  members  of  the  staff  preached  Christ,  not 
by  direct  appeals,  but  by  acting  in  a  Christian  spirit. 
In  all  matters  connected  with  worship,  the  fullest 
liberty  of  conscience  was  permitted.  The  Mahometans 
read  the  Koran  and  kept  their  fasts ;  the 
Greek  Christians  were  allowed  the  services  of  a  Greek 
Priest ;  and  the  other  Christians  attended  services 
conducted  by  an  Arab  evangelist.  The  Mahometan 
patients  were  often  a  source  of  great  trouble. 
Some  of  them  were  extremely  bigoted,  denounced 
the  Christian  religion  as  false  and  wicked,  called  all 
Christians  dogs,  made  other  biting  remarks  about  the 
Christian  lepers,  and  showed,  by  their  sulky  demeanour, 
that  while  they  were  glad  to  be  relieved  of  pain,  they 
resented  the  idea  of  receiving  favours  from  Christians. 
With  a  few  exceptions,  the  Mahometan  patients 
refused  to  attend  morning  prayers  ;  many  of  them 
grumbled  about  the  house  rules  ;  and  one  year  they 
petitioned  the  Mayor  of  Jerusalem  to  issue  a  decree 
that  Mahometan  and  Christian  lepers  should  not 
be  compelled  to  live  under  the  same  roof. 

But  the  chief  difficulty  with  the  Mahometans 
was  their  low  moral  standard.  In  spite  of  the  fact 
that  they  received  ever\i:hing  for  nothing,  they 
seemed  to  imagine  that  nearly  everything  in  the 
Home  belonged  by  right  to  them,  and  no  nurse,  in 
their  opinion,  had  any  right  to  refuse  a  request. 
Gratitude  was  rarely  expressed,  and  even  when  it 
was,  the  expression  was  not  always  sincere.  If  a 
request  was  granted,  they  said,  "  God  be  your 
friend  "  ;  but  if  it  was  refused,  they  answered,  "  God 
curse  you  dead."  At  Christmas  they  compared 
presents,  and  accused  the  donors  of  favouritism  ; 
sometimes  petty  thefts  were  discovered  ;  and  once 
Schubert  had  to  intervene  to  prevent  certain  poultry 
farmers  from  creating  a  monopoly  in  eggs.     Still  worse. 


8&Q        A  History  of  Mokavian  Missions. 

the  Mahometan  patients  had  no  faith  in  the 
Christian  law  of  forgiveness.  Among  the  Mahometans 
revenge  is  a  sacred  duty  ;  the  man  who  forgives 
his  enemy  is  a  coward ;  and  this  behef  was 
shared  by  some  of  the  Christians.  In  1903  Schubert 
had  an  enhghtening  experience.  For  some  years  an 
Arab  Hving  near  the  Home  had  proved  a  trouble- 
some neighbour  ;  now,  having  fallen  on  bad  times, 
he  came  to  Schubert  for  help  ;  and  all  the  patients 
were  anxious  to  know  how  he  would  treat  the  case. 

"  Do  not  help  that  man,"  they  begged;  "now  is 
your  chance  for  revenge." 

"Love  your  enemies,"  answered  Schubert;  "do 
good  to  them  that  hate  you." 

"  But  that  is  not  to  be  taken  literally,"  they  said. 
"  If  you  help  that  man  there  will  be  further  trouble, 
and  he  will  think  you  are  afraid  of  him." 

The  man  was  helped  ;  a  good  impression  was  made  ; 
and  one  honest  Mahometan  said  :  "  You  Christians 
are  better  than  we  are."  At  the  same  time  we  must 
not  imagine  that  all  the  Mahometans  were  hopeless. 
By  their  superior  moral  tone,  the  Christian  lepers 
exercised  a  great  influence  over  the  other  patients, 
and  sometimes  Christians  and  Mahometans  could 
be  seen,  in  the  friendliest  spirit,  comparing  the  Bible 
and  the  Koran.  At  Christmas,  1906,  all  the 
Mahometans  attended  the  services,  caught  a  little 
of  the  Christmas  spirit,  and  thanked  Schubert  and 
the  nurses  for  their  kindness.  Nor  was  their  gratitude 
confined  to  words.  Some  helped  the  nurses  in  their 
work  and  brought  flowers  to  beautify  their  rooms  ; 
some  contributed  to  a  common  poor-box,  and  some 
even  sent  a  subscription  to  a  Jerusalem  Orphanage. 

At  last,  however,  in  1912,  an  important  change  was 
made.  At  the  suggestion  of  the  local  Jerusalem 
Committee,  Kasis  Farhud  Kurban,  an  Arab,  was 
appointed  evangelist  to  the  Home  ;    and  the  curious 


The  Leper  Home  at  Jerusalem.  887 

arrangement  was  that,  while  he  preached  once  a 
week  in  the  Home,  he  did  not  always  preach  in  the 
same  way.  His  method  varied  on  alternate  Sundays. 
One  Siinday  he  preached  the  Gospel ;  on  the  other 
he  preached  truths  common  to  both  Mahometans 
and  Christians  ;  and  now  the  new  rule  was  made  that 
at  the  second  kind  of  service  attendance  was  binding 
on  all.  At  the  first  kind  of  service,  only  Christians 
were  compelled  to  attend  ;  at  the  second,  all  had  to 
attend  ;  and  thus  the  Mahometans  had  to  be  present 
at  least  once  a  fortnight.  For  a  brief  period  this 
new  rule  aroused  fierce  opposition.  In  vain  the 
Mahometans  were  informed  that  the  preacher 
would  not  say  a  word  against  their  prophet ;  all  the 
Mahometans  except  one  revolted,  saying  that, 
rather  than  listen  to  the  preacher,  they  would  leave 
the  Home,  and  during  the  next  few  weeks  a  few 
carried  out  their  threat.  As  Farhud  Kurban,  how- 
ever, showed  great  tact,  the  opposition  gradually 
died  down  ;  and  his  latest  encouraging  report  was 
that  all  the  lepers  were  pleased  to  see  him. 

Let  me  close  with  a  word  of  praise  for  the  nurses. 
In  spite  of  their  depressing  duties,  they  have  always 
been  cheerful,  and  Sister  Bertha,  after  a  furlough, 
made  a  characteristic  remark  :  "  There  is  nothing 
more  delightful,"  she  said,  "  than  to  be  back  in  the 
Leper  Home." 


Chapter  V. 

DEMERARA,  1878—1914. 

For  the  origin  of  the  Mission  in  Demerara  we 
must  turn  to  the  once  famous  philanthropist,  Quintin 
Hogg.  I  At  that  time  Quintin  Hogg  was  well-known 
both  in  England  and  in  Demerara.  In  London  he 
was  famous  because  he  had  recently  founded  the 
Polytechnic  Institute ;  in  evangelical  circles 
he  was  known  because  he  was  a  great  supporter 
of  D.  L.  Moody ;  and  in  Demerara,  which  he 
frequently  visited,  he  was  well-known,  partly 
because  he  owned  many  sugar  plantations,  partly 
because,  on  those  plantations,  he  had  introduced 
many  improvements  in  the  manufacture  of  sugar, 
and  partly  because  he  always  showed  a  deep  interest 
in  the  moral  and  spiritual  welfare  of  his  employees. 
Quintin  Hogg  was  a  very  broad-minded  man  ;  his 
theology  has  been  called  the  "  theology  of  love  "  ; 
and,  holding  that  an  imperfect  religion  was  better 
than  no  religion  at  all,  he  even  helped  to  build 
mosques  for  Mahometans.  His  connexion  with 
Moravian  Missions  sprang  partly  from  his  business 
activities.  For  some  years  he  was  the  senior  partner 
in  the  firm  of  Hogg,  Curtis,  Campbell  &  Co. ;  this 
firm  owned  sugar  estates  at  Graham's  Hall  and  Reliance 
in  Demerara  ;  and  now  Quintin  Hogg  informed  the 
Moravian  Mission  Board  that,  if  the  Moravian  Church 
would  supply  chaplains  for  those  two  estates,  he 
would  cover  all  expenses  for  five  years.  His  reason 
for  appealing  to  the  Moravians  was  natural.  Among 
the  workmen  on  his  estates,  several  were  Moravian 
Negroes,  who  had  recently  come  from  Barbados ; 

fOn  Quintin  Hogg,  see  "  Quintin  Hogg :   a  Biography."     By  his 
daughter,  Ethel  M.  Hogg.     (Archibald  Conalabled;  Co.,  1906.) 

(388) 


Demerara.  889 

and  Hogg,  who  had  visited  Barbados,  was 
probably  acquainted  with  the  Moravian  work 
in  that  island.  The  Moravian  Mission  Board 
accepted  his  offer ;  two  Negro  chaplains,  Henry 
Moore  and  Alexander  Pilgrim,  were  appointed ; 
and  on  the  two  estates  he  had  named — Graham's 
Hall  (1878),  near  the  coast,  and  Rehance  (1882) — 
regular  services  were  held.  For  a  little  over  five 
years  Quintin  Hogg  covered  the  expenses  ;  then,  in 
1885,  he  withdrew  his  Reliance  subscription,  and  the 
w^ork  there  had  to  be  closed  ;  and  finally,  when  the 
sea  encroached  on  his  land  and  the  sugar  industry 
became  less  prosperous,  he  informed  the  Brethren 
that  all  he  could  spare  was  a  Church  and  a  few  acres 
of  land.  For  this  reason  the  Graham's  Hall  station 
was  removed  a  few  miles  further  inland  ;  the  new 
Church  and  land  were  accepted  as  a  parting  gift ;  and 
henceforward  the  expense  of  the  Mission  fell  almost 
entirely  on  Moravian  shoulders.  Thus  did  a  work 
begun  as  a  chaplaincy  become  a  true  missionary 
effort,  and  finally,  Demerara  (1908)  was  officially 
recognised  as  a  separate  missionary  province. 

In  one  sense  the  work  in  Demerara  is  unique. 
Of  all  the  Moravian  Mission  Fields,  Demerara  alone, 
from  first  to  last,  has  been  worked  entirely  by  native 
ministers,  and  the  experiment  has  proved  a  striking 
success.  For  twenty-eight  years  the  leader  was  1878-96 
Henry  Moore,  a  Barbados  Negro,  and  no  missionary 
ever  rendered  more  faithful  service.  At  first  the 
prospect  seemed  hopeless.  As  Hogg's  workmen  had 
been  brought  over  from  Barbados,  they  were  all 
supposed,  in  theory,  to  be  Christians,  and  some  of 
them  had  come  from  Moravian  stations.  In  reality, 
however,  they  had  all  become  slaves  of  vice.  For 
religion  and  morals  they  now  cared  absolutely 
nothing.  No  marriage  laws  were  recognised,  and 
most  of  their  hard-earned  money  was  spent  on  cards, 


890        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

horse-racing,  and  drink.  For  some  years  several 
overseers  opposed  the  work.  "  I  would  rather  give 
five  dollars  for  a  rum-shop,"  said  one,  "  than  one 
shilling  to  help  to  build  a  church."  Nevertheless, 
Moore  soon  saw  a  striking  change.  In  addition  to  the 
Church  at  Graham's  Hall,  he  also,  at  the  members' 
1882  request,  took  charge  of  a  Congregational  Church 
named  Beterverwachting  (Tabernacle) ;  and  in  due 
time  Beterverwachting  became  a  Moravian  Station. 
The  great  feature  of  Moore's  work  was  his  thorough 
moral  teaching.  For  this  reason  the  people  called  him 
Moses,  and  a  stern  and  unbending  Moses  he  was. 
The  more  he  studied  the  lives  of  the  people,  the  more 
clearly  he  perceived  that,  while  they  loved  the  House 
of  God,  they  also  loved  certain  pleasant  sins,  and 
Moore  had  continually  to  show  them  that  those  sins 
were  really  forbidden  in  the  Bible.  With  the  same 
purpose,  he  also  persuaded  them  to  read  the  Bible 
every  day ;  founded  a  lending  library ;  and  dis- 
tributed "Good  News,"  "The  Gospel  Trumpet," 
"  The  Band  of  Hope  Review,"  and  the  "  Moravian 
Missionary  Reporter."  In  five  years  he  saw  a  great 
transformation.  The  godless  became  true  wor- 
shippers ;  his  members  were  all  abstainers,  and  the 
men  who  used  to  bet  on  horses  now  dropped  their 
spare  money  into  the  collection  box.  Once  a  year 
Moore  sent  off  an  official  report,  and  splendid  reading 
some  of  those  reports  were.  In  his  judgment  the 
essential  point  was,  not  the  mere  number  of  members, 
but  the  change  in  those  members'  lives,  and  on  that 
change  he  generally  laid  the  stress.  "  No  one,"  he 
would  say,  "has  committed  a  murder  ;  no  one  has  been 
drunk  and  disorderly  ;  no  drink  has  been  used  at 
the  marriage  feasts  ;  and  no  one  has  had  to  be  brought 
before  magistrates."  His  success,  of  course,  was  not 
perfect.  With  all  his  skill,  he  found  it  hard  to  con- 
vince his  people  that  telling  lies  was  wicked,  and  still 


Cemerara.  ^9l 

PfOTse,  they  were  slow  to  leaxn  that  wife-beating  was 
not  a  Christian  amusement.  The  great  positive 
virtue  of  the  people  was  their  liberality.  As  soon  as 
Hogg  withdrew  his  subscription,  the  demands  on 
their  purses  were  heavy,  and  yet,  though  the  sugar 
trade  was  bad,  they  bore  three-fourths  of  the 
expenses.  Thus  did  Moore  lead  the  Demerara  Negroes 
from  the  Egypt  of  sin  to  the  Promised  Land  of  godly 
living. 

His  successor,  John  Dingwall  (1897),  was  equally    1897-1914 

efficient.      In    consequence    of  his  noble  character, 

John    Dingwall    was     soon     an     honoured    figure 

in  the  Colony,  and  having  received  a  good  education 

in    the     Moravian     Training    School     at     Fairfield, 

Jamaica,   he  was  able  to  comport  himself  both  as 

a    Christian    and    a    gentleman.     At    first    he,    too, 

found  the  people  in  a  sad  condition.      The  more  the 

sugar  industry  decUned,  the  more  the  workmen  were 

tempted  to  seek  higher  wages  in  the  towns,  and  in 

these  towns  they  might  relapse  into  vicious  habits. 

For  the  sake  of  those  who  had  flocked  to  Georgetown, 

he  built   both   a   Church   and   a   Secondary   School 

(1902-1904)   at   Queenstown,t   and   with  the  special 

goodwill  of  the  Anglican  Bishop,  he  commenced  a 

Mission  to  the  Coolies  at  Ogle's  Industry,  Cumming's 

Lodge,  and  Turkeyen.     His  assistants,  Francis  and 

Grant,   were  both  Negroes  ;     his   evangelist   to   the 

Hindoos,  Buccus,  was  an  East  Indian  ;    and  thus  the 

whole  work  was  in   native   hands.    For   that   very 

reason,  perhaps,  the  work  was   officially  honoured. 

At    the    annual  meeting   of   the    Bible    Society   in 

Georgetown,  the  Moravian  Choir  was  asked  to  lead 

the  singing ;    the  Mayor  of  Georgetowai  presided  at 

the  opening  of  the  Brethren's  "  Comenius  School  '* ; 

and  the  Governor  himself  contributed  to  Moravian 

Church  Funds. 

tQueenstown  is  a  suburb  of   GcorgPtown. 


092        A  iftiSTORY  OF  Moravian  Missions. 

But  the  chief  feature  of  the  work  in  Demerara  was 
the  church  activity  of  the  members.  Demerara  may 
be  called  the  field  of  many  societies.  For  their 
desire  to  learn,  for  their  willingness  to  work,  and  for 
their  liberality,  the  native  Christians  of  Demerara 
are  unexcelled  in  the  Moravian  Church.  Among  the 
religious  societies  mentioned  by  Dingwall,  we  find  a 
Women's  Mite  Missionary  Society,  a  Men's 
"  Macedonian  Band,"  a  Men's  Brotherhood  for  Bible 
Study,  a  "  Lyceum,"  two  or  three  Christian 
Endeavour  Societies,  and  a  Women's  Working 
Society  ;  Girl  Guides,  Penny  Banks,  Friendly  and 
Burial  Societies,  were  also  formed  ;  and  all  these 
societies  helped  to  raise  the  intellectual  and  moral 
tone  of  the  people.  At  the  "  Brotherhood  "  some  of 
the  young  men  learned  to  write  sermons;  at  the 
meetings  of  the  Missionary  Societies  such  magazines 
as  "  Moravian  Missions,"  "  China's  Millions,"  and 
"  Regions  Beyond  "  were  carefully  studied  ;  and  most 
of  the  societies  also  contributed  generously  to  Church 
Funds.  Why  then,  it  may  be  asked,  has  the  work 
in  Demerara  not  been  still  more  successful  ?  How 
is  it  that  in  1914  there  were  still  only  three  con- 
gregations, Graham's  Hall,  Queenstown,  and 
Beterverwachting;  only  three  day-schools  and  thirteen 
Sunday  Schools ;  only  five  hundred  and  seventy- 
nine  communicants  ;  and  only  two  thousand  four 
hundred  and  forty-one  Sunday  scholars  ?  The 
answer  will  be  largely  found  in  the  economic  state  of 
the  colony. 

At  the  time  when  the  Mission  began,  Demerara 
was  studded  with  sugar  plantations ;  since  then 
many  of  these  have  been  closed  ;  and  though  the 
Government  made  repeated  attempts,  no  alternative 
industry  could  be  found.  In  the  country  districts 
there  was  little  irrigation,  and  this  defect  made 
farming   a   poor   business.     At   the   time,    however, 


Demerara.  8d8 

when  the  Great  War  broke  out,  optimists  had  begun 
to  predict  better  things.  Rice-growing  had  increased  ; 
the  Government  had  a  scheme  for  a  Bank  Loan, 
so  that  farmers  might  become  freeholders  ;  rumour 
said  that  in  the  south  both  gold  and  diamonds 
had  been  discovered  ;  and  Sir  Walter  Egerton,  the 
Governor,  after  a  tour  to  the  southern  border,  hinted 
that  a  railway  in  the  hinterland  might  be  con- 
structed. Such  prospects  gave  the  missionaries  new 
hope.  There,  in  the  south  of  the  colony,  their  con- 
verts might  at  last  be  able  to  earn  good  wages  ;  there 
new  Churches  might  be  built ;  and  the  Gospel 
standard  might  even  be  carried  across  the  border 
to  Brazil. 


Chapter  VI. 

ALASKA,  1885—1914. 

1.    An  Urgent  Appeal. 

For  the  origin  of  the  Mission  in  Alaska  we  turn 
to  a  pathetic  letter  addressed  to  the  Moravian 
authorities  at  Bethlehem  in  Pennsylvania,  and 
written  by  Dr.  Sheldon  Jackson,  Secretary  of  the 
Board  of  Missions  of  the  Presbyterian  Church. f 
In  1867  the  United  States  bought  Alaska  from 
Russia  for  £1,400,000 ;  a  few  years  later  the 
Presbyterians  began  a  Mission  to  the  Alaskan  Indians, 
near  Suka,  in  Eastern  Alaska  ;  and  now  Dr.  Sheldon 
Jackson,  after  appealing  to  other  Churches  in  vain, 
suggested  that  the  Moravian  Church  should  commence 
a  Mission  to  the  Eskimos.  At  that  time,  he  said, 
the  total  population  of  Alaska  was  about  34,000  ; 
two-thirds  of  the  inhabitants  were  Eskimos,  living 
mostly  on  the  coast ;  and  though  the  Greek  Church 
had  established  a  Mission  on  the  islands,  most  of  the 
Eskimos  were  still  absolute  heathen.  "  If  you 
refuse,"  he  said,  "  those  heathen  must  go  down  to 
ruin  in  the  dark." 

The  American  Moravians  acted  promptly.  At  the 
annual  meeting  of  their  S.P.G.  (August  23rd,  1883), 
Dr.  Sheldon  Jackson's  letter  was  read  ;  five  theo- 
logical students  volunteered  for  service  ;  and  next 
year  (1884),  two  men,  William  Weinland  and 
Adolphus  Hartmann,  set  sail  from  San  Francisco, 
interviewed  a  Greek  priest  on  the  island  of  Oonalaska, 
1884  crossed  the  Behring  Sea  in  a  ship  belonging  to  the 
Alaska  Commercial  Company,   and  pushing  up  the 

jHe  was  afterwards  United  States  General  Agent  of  Education 
in  Alaska.  He  was  also  author  of  a  book,  "  Alaska  and 
Missions  on  the  North  Pacific  Coast." 

(394) 


Alaska.  S95 

Kuskokwim  River,  discovered,  some  seventy  miles 
from  the  mouth,  an  important  trading  station.  On 
that  day,  June  20th,  1884,  the  Old  Testament  text 
in  the  Text  Book  was  :  "  God  said  unto  Jacob, 
arise,  go  up  to  Bethel  and  dwell  there,  and  make 
there  an  altar  unto  God  that  appeared  to  thee  "  ; 
such  an  encoiuraging  message  could  not  be  ignored  ; 
and,  therefore,  the  two  explorers  decided,  not  only 
that  here  they  would  build  the  first  station,  but  also 
that  its  name  should  be  "  Bethel." 

There,  in  fact,  a  year  later,  the  first  station  was  1885 
founded  ;  there  the  first  tlu-ee  missionaries,  William 
Weinland,  an  American,  John  Kilbuck,  a  Delaware, 
and  John  Torgersen,  a  Norwegian  carpenter,  arrived 
in  the  Bethel  Star^  and  there  they  made  their  first 
acquaintance  with  the  Eskimos.  At  the  very  out- 
set, however,  a  disaster  occurred.  On  August  10th, 
1885,  John  Torgersen  fell  overboard  and  was 
drowned ;  a  few  weeks  later  his  dead  body  was 
found  ;  and  Weinland  and  Kilbuck,  who  knew  little 
of  carpentry,  settled  do^\^l  to  the  task  of  building  a 
house. 

Let  us  here  take  a  brief  glance  at  the  Eskimos. 
At  the  time  when  this  Mission  was  projected  there 
appears  to  have  been  a  widespread  unpression  that 
those  Eskimos  in  Alaska  who  had  not  yet  been 
corrupted  by  contact  with  civiUsation  were  far 
superior,  both  physically  and  intellectually,  to  the 
Eskimos  of  Greenland  and  Labrador ;  and  such 
Eskimos,  it  was  said,  were  so  peaceable,  sober, 
industrious,  and  virtuous,  that  one  writer  called 
them  the  Quakers  of  Alaska.  But  the  missionaries 
did  not  find  this  description  justified.  In  several 
respects  the  Eskimos  of  Alaska  were  far  inferior  to 
those  of  Labrador.  The  difference  was  largely  due 
to  climatic  causes.  In  Labrador  the  Eskimos  fed 
on  seals  and  walruses,  and  thereby  acquired  great 


896        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

physical  vigour ;  in  Alaska  the  chief  diet  was  fish, 
game,  rabbits,  and  home-bred  fowls ;  and  this 
lighter  diet  caused  a  change  for  the  worse  both  in 
the  body  and  in  the  disposition.  The  Labrador 
Eskimo  was  active  and  bold  ;  the  Alaskan  Eskimo 
was  both  more  sluggish  and  more  timid.  In  Labrador 
the  Eskimos  lived  near  the  sea,  and  grew  accustomed 
to  facing  the  winter  storms  ;  in  Alaska  they  lived 
on  the  river  banks,  and  did  not  need  to  hunt  except 
in  the  summer.  But  the  chief  differences  were 
found  in  social  and  family  life.  In  Labrador  each 
family  occupied  its  own  wood-hut  or  tent ;  in  Alaska 
several  families  lived  together  in  a  large  underground 
house  known  as  a  burra-burra  ;  and  there  the  people 
adopted  a  system  of  common  housekeeping  which 
made  decency  impossible.  For  both  filth  and 
immorality  the  burra-burra  was  hard  to  rival.  In 
the  middle  was  the  common-room,  with  a  smoke- 
hole  at  the  top ;  around  this  room  were  smaller 
rooms,  each  occupied  by  a  family  ;  and  the  barrier 
between  these  rooms  was  so  low  that  privacy  was 
impossible.  The  atmosphere  in  the  burra-burra 
was  foul ;  no  windows  existed,  and,  therefore,  no 
sunlight  could  enter  ;  and  the  consequence  of  those 
insanitary  conditions  was  that,  though  the  Alaskan 
climate  is  bracing,  many  of  the  people  were  con- 
sumptive and  two-thirds  of  the  children  died  in 
infancy.  But  the  moral  atmosphere  was  even  worse 
than  the  physical.  At  the  age  of  ten  nearly  every 
girl  was  compelled  by  her  father's  orders  to  become 
a  prostitute  ;  later,  when  they  thought  she  might 
marry,  her  parents  would  sell  her  by  auction  to  the 
highest  bidder ;  and  most  of  the  women — so,  at 
least,  Mrs.  John  Kilbuck  reported — appear  to  have 
had  ten  or  twelve  husbands  before  settling  down  to 
domestic  life. 

Nor  were  the  Alaskan  Eskimos  himianitarians.     In 


I 


Alaska.  897 

spite  of  a  certain  geniality  of  disposition,  most  of  them 
seem  to  have  taken  pleasure  in  cruelty.  Little 
compassion  for  the  sick  was  shewn,  and  surplus 
children  and  old  people  were  often  killed.  The 
first  missionaries  heard  some  horrible  stories.  At 
Bethel  an  infuriated  husband,  suspecting  his  wife  of 
witchcraft,  clubbed  her  to  death  and  burned  her  body 
in  oil.  At  another  place  a  woman  took  a  boy  to  the 
water's  edge,  fastened  him  down  with  a  stake,  and 
left  him  to  die ;  at  another,  a  man  chopped  a  witch 
to  pieces  ;  and  one  man,  being  plagued  with  a  lunatic 
aunt,  froze  her  to  death. 

Above  all,  so  far  as  the  missionaries  could  discover, 
the  Alaskan  Eskimos  seem  to  have  lost  most  of  their 
old  religious  beliefs.  Both  in  Labrador  and  in 
Greenland  the  Eskimos  seem  to  have  believed  in  the 
existence  of  a  Supreme  Spirit ;  no  such  spirit,  however, 
was  known  in  Alaska  ;  and  most  of  the  people  held 
the  opinion  that,  even  if  such  a  God  could  be  proved 
to  exist.  He  did  not  take  any  interest  in  poor  people. 
"  There  cannot  be  a  God,"  said  one  man,  "  who 
cares  for  us,  for  I  never  received  anything  from 
Him."  According  to  one  modem  writer,|  some  of 
the  Eskimos  near  Behring  Straits  related  how  a 
spirit  named  Selu  made  the  first  man  out  of  clay, 
and  others,  like  the  Eskimos  of  Greenland,  had 
preserved  traditions  of  the  Great  Flood.  But  the 
Eskimos  never  prayed  to  God  in  trouble.  In  some 
of  the  houses  the  missionaries  found  carved  wooden 
figures  and  masks,  and  those  idols,  said  the  people, 
not  only  cured  diseases,  but  gave  fish  and  seals. 
At  heart,  therefore,  the  Eskimos  were  really  idolaters.* 
Still    worse,    they    were    held    in    bondage    by   the 

fE.  W.  Nelson,  "The  Eskimos  About  Behring  Strait,"  quoted 
by  Sir  J.  G.  Frazer  in  his  "  Folk  Lore  in  the  Old  Testament," 
Vol.  I.,  p.  327. 

♦See  J.  Hinz's  Report,  "Periodical  Accounts,"  December,  1909, 
p.  463. 


898        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

"  shamans,"  or  witch-doctors.  According  to  these 
"  shamans,"  who  claimed  to  be  able  to  float  in  the 
air  and  to  possess  other  supernatural  powers,  all 
diseases  were  caused  by  evil  spirits ;  with  these 
spirits  only  the  "  shamans  "  could  cope  ;  and,  in 
order  to  add  to  their  own  power,  they  encouraged 
various  superstitions.  If  there  was  an  eclipse  of  the 
sun,  there  would  be  a  famine  ;  if  there  was  an  eclipse 
of  the  moon,  there  would  be  an  epidemic ;  and 
if  a  man  jumped  over  a  sledge  or  even  ventured 
to  have  his  hair  cut,  he  would  die  a  sudden  death. 
Nor  were  these  e^41s  compensated  for  by  any  firm 
belief  in  immortality.  For  four  or  five  days  after 
death,  said  the  Eskimos,  the  soul  hovered  near  its 
old  home  ;  what  became  of  it  afterwards  no  one  knew  ; 
and  thus  the  people  may  truly  be  said  to  have  lived 
without  God  and  without  hope. 

2.     The  Story  of  Bethel,   1885—1914. 

1885  At  this  time  much  interest  was  aroused  in  Moravian 

circles  by  the  fact  that  John  Kilbuck,  one  of  the 
missionaries,  was  descended  from  a  Delaware  King, 
Gelelemend,  a  prominent  Christian  in  the  days  of 
Zeisberger.  For  some  years  Kilbuck  was  Superin- 
tendent of  the  Alaska  Mission  ;  by  him  and  William 
Weinland  the  work  at  Bethel  was  begun ;  and 
both  men  exhibited  heroic  qualities.  For  two  years 
they  both  suffered  intensely.  The  first  task  was  to 
protect  themselves  against  the  cold.  In  spite  of  their 
imperfect  knowledge  of  house-building,  they  managed 
somehow  to  build  a  rough  log-house.  For  that 
climate,  however,  a  log-house  was  almost  useless. 
The  thermometer  often  fell  eighty  degrees  below 
freezing  point ;  the  days  were  short  and  cheerless  ; 
and  the  winds  cut  like  a  razor.  Inside  the  log-house 
there  was  neither  beauty  nor  comfort.  The  carpet 
rotted  with  damp ;    the  mattresses  were  mouldy ; 


Alaska.  899 

and  frost  half-an-inch  thick  gathered  on  the  window 
panes.  For  a  long  time  Kilbuck  suffered  much  from 
snow-blindness  ;  his  wife,  half  frozen,  was  nearly  a 
cripple  ;  and  Weinland,  breaking  down  altogether, 
had  to  leave  for  a  warmer  clime.  We  shall  meet 
him  again,  however,  in  another  field. 

For  a  whole  winter  after  Weinland  had  gone,  John 
Kilbuck  and  his  wife  were  alone  in  Bethel ;  and  once, 
when  Kilbuck  was  away  on  a  journey,  his  wife,  with  an 
ailing  child  to  look  after,  waited  patiently  at  Bethel 
for  no  fewer  than  seventy-three  days  (December 
3rd,  1888— February  14th,  1889).  In  Moravian 
circles  those  seventy-three  days  became  famous, 
and  Mrs.  Kilbuck  was  honoured  as  a  heroine. 

(a)  Gospel  Preaching.  For  a  few  months  Kilbuck, 
aided  by  a  trader,  could  only  talk  by  signs ;  then, 
having  good  linguistic  gifts,  he  mastered  the 
language  ;  and  by  Christmas,  1887,  he  was  able  to 
speak  in  public.  With  Christmas  festivities  he  made 
his  first  great  appeal.  For  the  first  time  there  was 
quite  a  crowd  at  Bethel.  The  story  of  Bethlehem 
was  told  ;  the  children  sang  "  Softly  the  Night  "  and 
other  carols ;  the  curtains  were  drawn,  and  the 
Christmas  tree  revealed  ;  and  presents  were  given 
out  to  young  and  old.  From  that  moment  Kilbuck 
began  to  note  progress.  The  people  seemed  delighted 
to  hear  of  Christ ;  next  year,  the  Passion  Week 
services  were  well  attended  ;  and  on  Good  Friday, 
1888,  the  first  heart  was  touched.  The  incident 
reminded  Kilbuck  of  the  story  of  Kayarnak.  Once 
more,  as  in  Greenland,  the  first  deep  impression 
was  produced  by  the  Passion  History.  "  Thank 
you,"  said  an  old  man,  after  hearing  the  story  of 
Calvary,  "  we  too  want  a  share  of  the  blood  of  Jesus 
to  take  away  our  sins." 

At  Bethlehem,  in  Pennsylvania,  the  news  of  this 
speech  was  described  as  electric  ;   in  September  some 


400        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Eskimos  became  communicants  ;  and  in  two  years 
the  number  had  risen  to  over  a  hundred. 

Meanwhile,  John  Kilbuck  had  visited  the  sur- 
rounding villages.  As  Greek  priests  had  worked 
in  the  neighbourhood  already,  the  people,  in  some 
cases,  knew  a  little  about  Christianity,  and  most  of 
them  seemed  anxious  to  learn  more.  In  every  village 
he  received  a  warm  welcome.  As  his  sledge  swung 
in,  the  people  came  out  to  greet  him.  The  men 
nodded  their  heads ;  the  boys  stood  smiling ;  and 
the  women  kept  in  the  background.  The  dogs  were 
unharnessed  ;  the  sledge  unloaded  ;  the  kettle  was 
boiled  in  a  burra-burra,  and  the  service  was  held  in  a 
public  hall,  known  as  the  kashige.  As  Kilbuck  crossed 
the  kashige  threshold,  the  old  village  fathers  rose 
to  greet  him.  "  Shamai  ?  How  do  ?  "  they  cried  in 
chorus.  In  those  kashiges  Kilbuck  first  preached  the 
Gospel.  At  the  close  of  the  service  the  women  retired 
to  their  homes,  and  the  men  stayed  behind  to  discuss 
the  sermon. 

But  these  villages  were  not  all  of  the  same  kind. 
In  the  river-side  villages  north  of  Bethel  the  people 
soon  mended  their  ways.  In  those  to  the  south  they 
clung  to  their  sins,  and  in  those  on  the  tundra  the 
men  defiantly  beat  drums  ;  and  Kilbuck,  therefore, 
paid  special  attention  to  the  villages  north  of  Bethel. 
In  each  of  these  villages  he  was  soon  able  to  appoint 
native  assistants.  They  came  to  Bethel  for  in- 
struction, repeated  their  lesson  in  the  villages,  and 
illustrated  their  remarks  with  pictures.  In  order 
to  let  the  natives  know  when  it  was  Sunday,  they  used 
a  little  wooden  tablet  with  holes.  Along  the  edge  of 
the  tablet  were  six  holes,  marking  the  week-days  ; 
in  the  middle  was  a  hole  for  Sunday  ;  the  Helper 
marked  the  process  of  time  with  a  peg  ;  and  when  his 
peg  reached  the  middle  hole,  he  knew  that  Sunday  had 
come.     At  an  early  period  one  Helper,  Hooker,  had 


Alaska.  401 

a  most  terrible  experience.  For  some  reason — 
possibly  previous  sins — he  suddenly  became  a  lunatic  ; 
and  his  relatives  actually  stripped  him  naked,  and 
threw  him  to  the  hungry  dogs.  In  spite,  however,  of 
this  disaster  the  Gospel  made  progress.  At  one  village 
the  chief  sorcerer.  Little  Whetstone,  was  converted  ; 
at  another  the  people  offered  to  build  their  own 
Church  ;  and  in  1894  Kilbuck  reported  that  in  the 
whole  district  between  Bethel  and  Ogavik  not  one 
single  heathen  festival  had  been  held.  For  some 
time,  however,  many  of  the  heathen  refused  to  give 
up  their  immoral  habits. 

"  It  never  marred  our  happiness  before,"  they 
said,  "  so  why  should  we  give  it  up  ?  " 

''  But  why  do  you  do  such  dreadful  things  ?  " 

"It  is  our  custom." 

At  length,  however,  better  customs  prevailed ; 
the  Helpers  set  a  splendid  example  ;  and  Bethel  was 
surrounded  by  sixteen  preaching  places. 

{b)  Education :  the  School  at  Bethel.  For  this  1887 
purpose  the  Government  provided  £60  per  annum  ; 
but  on  the  other  hand  they  laid  down  the  condition 
that  each  year  the  school  must  be  open  at  least  tM'o 
hundred  days.  As  the  morals  in  the  children's  homes 
were  so  bad,  a  mere  day-school  would  have  been 
useless,  and,  therefore,  nearly  all  the  children  were 
boarders.  Xo  stranger  boarding-school  existed  in 
North  America.  The  staff  consisted  of  the  missionary, 
his  wife,  and  a  lady  teacher  ;  the  building  was  a  small 
log-house  ;  and  the  pupils  were  the  dirtiest  children 
on  God's  earth.  Inside  the  house  the  general  im- 
pression was  a  mixtiu-e  of  water  and  oil.  The  pupils 
came  in  with  wet  feet  ;  the  lamps  had  an  oilj'  smell ; 
the  trout,  cooking  at  the  kitchen  fire,  dribbled  oil 
on  the  floor  ;  and  all  day  long  coats,  caps,  and  boots 
hung  before  the  fire  to  dry.  In  that  school,  however, 
lay  the  brightest  hopes  for  the  future.     For  thoee  boys 


402        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

no  better  education  could  have  been  provided.    From 
the  first,  great  attention  was  paid  to  practical  details. 
The  first  lesson  was  cleanliness.     For  the  first  time 
in  history  Alaskan  boys  had  their  hair  cut ;    every 
newcomer   had   a  bath   and   a  new   suit ;     and   the 
girls,  to  their  mothers'  great  astonishment,  explored 
the  mysteries  of  the  wash-tub.     For  the  first  time, 
also,  the  boys  learned  to  take  theu'  share  in  house- 
hold management.     At  an  early  hour  one  rose  and 
lighted  the  fires  ;   two  others  washed  the  dishes  and 
scrubbed  the  rooms  ;    another  trimmed  the  lamps  ; 
and  others  split  wood  for  the  fire.     The  daily  pro- 
gramme   was    varied.     In    the    morning    the    usual 
elementary  subjects  were  taught ;    in  the  afternoon 
the  boys  learned  carpentry,  and  the  girls  domestic 
economy.     As  the  boys  generally  spent  the  summer 
in  hunting,   the   school   could  be   held   only  in  the 
winter  months,  and  with  the  girls  the  great  difficulty 
was  that  early  in  their  teens  they  were  generally 
Bold  in  marriage. 

"  It  is  too  bad,"  said  little  Janie,  "  that  I  can't  come 
to  school  any  more.  I  should  like  to  come,  but  I 
have  been  given  to  a  man." 

As  the  Government  rendered  more  and  more  help, 
the  staff  was  steadily  increased  ;  the  most  modern 
American  school-books,  such  as  Baker's  "  Action 
Primer,"  were  used  ;  and  the  children  not  only  read 
interesting  books,  such  as  "  Around  the  World " 
and  "  Eskimo  Stories,"  but  revelled  in  the  old  jingle 
of  "  Mother  Goose."  For  many  years  this  boarding- 
school  at  Bethel  was  the  only  school  in  Alaska ; 
then,  at  the  request  of  the  Government,  an  Industrial 
School  was  opened  ;  and  here,  while  the  girls  made 
skin  boots  and  shoes,  the  boys  learned  fishing, 
gardening,   net-making,  and  the  use  of  machinery. 

(c)     Medical     Work.     In     this     department     the 
Brethren  accomplished  little.     For  six  years  (1897- 


Il 


Alaska.  408 

1903)  Dr.  J.  H.  Romig  acted  both  as  medical 
missionary  and  as  Superintendent  of  the  Mission ; 
then,  however,  he  retired,  and  as  no  successor  was 
found,  the  Brethren  could  only  use  simple  remedies 
and  teach  the  people  to  be  clean. 

(d)  The  Introduction  of  Reindeer.  At  Dr.  Sheldon  1901 
Jackson's  suggestion,  the  Alaskan  Board  of  Education 
introduced  herds  of  reindeer.  For  several  reasons, 
he  said,  reindeer  would  be  beneficial  to  the  Eskimos. 
Both  the  flesh  and  the  milk  were  nutritious  and 
digestible  ;  from  the  skm  both  clothes  and  leather 
could  be  made ;  and  the  Eskimos,  by  acting  as 
shepherds,  would  find  congenial  occupation.  At  the 
special  request  of  the  Government,  the  Brethren 
established  a  reindeer  station  at  Bethel.  The  Govern- 
ment lent  the  reindeer  for  five  years  ;  the  missionary 
supplied  the  apprentices  and  enforced  the  Govern- 
ment's regulations  ;  and  the  Mission,  in  return  for 
its  services,  received  so  many  reindeer  in  payment. 
But  the  chief  benefit  came  to  the  Eskimos.  If  the 
shepherd  fulfilled  all  the  conditions,  he  might  become 
an  owner  of  reindeer,  use  his  profits  to  buy  a  house, 
and  thereby  become  a  respectable  citizen. 

But  this  was  not  the  best  result  of  the  Mission.  At 
the  close  of  1913  Bethel  was  a  prosperous  Christian 
village.  Among  the  members  several  were  Native 
Helpers  ;  these  men  studied  theology  seven  hours  a 
day  ;  and  by  them  the  Gospel  was  preached  at  Akiak, 
Akiatshuak,  Tuluksak,  Ogavik,  Quingillingok,  and 
other  villages  in  the  neighbourhood.  Thus  did  Bethel 
become  true  to  its  name. 

3.     The  Story  of  Carmel,  1887—1906. 

The  story  of  Carmel  is  a  tragedy.  For  the  failure 
of  the  Mission  at  this  station — situated  further 
east,  near  the  mouth  of  the  Nushagak — the 
responsibility  must  be  laid,  partly  on  the  opposition 


404        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

of  the  Greek  Church,  and  partly  on  the  evil  example 
of  certain  Chinese  and  Japanese  workmen  employed 
at  the  neighbouring  salmon  canneries.  The  conduct 
of  the  local  priest  was  disgraceful.  In  order  to 
undermine  the  Brethren's  influence,  he  enticed  the 
children  from  the  boarding-school,  informed  the 
Eskimos  that  the  Brethren  were  servants  of  the 
devil,  and  not  only  took  to  drink  himself,  but  even 
encouraged  the  people  to  follow  his  example.  The 
influence  of  the  Chinese  was  even  worse.  Among 
other  things,  they  taught  the  Eskimos  to  brew  a  fiery 
liquor,  and  giving  way  to  this  temptation,  the 
people  rapidly  drank  themselves  to  death. 

4.  The  Story  of  Quinhagak,  1903 — 1914. 
At  this  station,  which  lies  further  down  the 
Kuskokwim,  the  chief  feature  to  notice  is  that,  while 
the  missionaries  did  not  neglect  to  preach  the  Gospel, 
they  also  made  a  systematic  attempt  to  raise  the 
natives  in  other  ways. 

(a)  The  chief  missionary  here  was  Schochert. 
For  some  months  he  used  his  muscles  far  more  than 
his  tongue.  His  chief  purpose  was  to  abolish  dirt. 
First,  with  the  aid  of  the  natives,  he  drained  the  land, 
erected  a  curing-house,  and  built  a  manse  and  a 
Church  ;  then  he  made  a  wooden  path  through  the 
village  ;  and  then  he  erected  a  row  of  houses,  with 
a  wooden  path  leading  to  each  front  door.  Thus 
did  the  pjskimos  learn  to  avoid  bringing  mud  into 
their  houses. 

(b)  Secondly,  Schochert  taught  the  people  to  be 
diligent  in  business.  In  accordance  with  Govern- 
ment instructions,  he  arranged  that,  in  the  day-school, 
two  hours  daily  should  be  devoted  to  industrial 
subjects.  The  boys  leauned  to  make  skates,  kites, 
handkerchiefs,  and  children's  toys  ;  the  girls  made 
dresses  and  Christmas  "  cookies  "  ;    and  the  young 


Alaska.  405 

women  were  taught  to  prepare  rice,  fish,  beans,  and 
oatmeal.  By  degrees,  therefore,  Quinhagak  became 
a  hive  of  industry  ;  and  nearly  all  the  adults  became 
skilled  workers.  Some,  like  their  kinsmen  at  Bethel, 
tended  the  reindeer ;  others  dried  fish,  raised  emperor 
geese  and  made  furs  ;  others,  especially  the  women, 
made  grass-baskets  ;  and  as  the  missionary  put  these 
goods  on  the  market,  the  natives,  with  the  profits 
thus  gained,  could  buy  goods  at  a  general  village 
store. 

(c)  Health.  In  addition  to  treating  simple  cases, 
the  missionaries  also  taught  the  people  how  to  take 
care  of  their  health.  The  men  learned  how  to 
treat  cuts  and  bruises  ;  the  women  brought  their 
babies  to  the  school  for  a  bath  and  a  change  of  under- 
wear ;  and  the  children  not  only  learned  how  to 
make  cheese-cloth  bandages,  but  also  had  regular 
lessons  in  the  laws  of  health.  For  this  latter  purpose 
two  books  on  hygiene,  "  The  Primer  of  Sanitation  " 
and  "  The  Human  Body  and  Health,"  were  used  ; 
each  child  had  a  separate  drinking  cup,  and  was 
told  the  reason ;  and  the  head-mistress  visited 
the  homes  and  explained  the  importance  of  scalding 
pots  and  pans.  The  change  in  the  people's  ideas 
was  remarkable.  Formerly  they  had  dreaded  evil 
spirits  ;  now  they  waged  war  on  bacteria  ;  and  the 
missionaries  gave  them  to  understand  that  in  this 
warfare  there  was  a  prospect  of  victory.  "  The 
children,"  said  the  head-mistress,  "  seem  much 
interested  in  the  study  of  their  bodies  and  the  cause 
and  prevention  of  disease.  They  realise  well  what 
a  terrible  foe  they  have  in  tuberculosis." 

(d)  Morals.  In  order  to  overcome  certain 
dangerous  amusements — such  as  the  heathen 
"  festivals  " — the  missionaries  arranged  that,  as  far 
as  possible,  every  evening,  at  least  in  the  winter. 


406        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

should  be  well  occupied.  First,  there  was  evening 
prayer  in  the  schoolroom  for  all ;  then  there  were 
classes  for  singing  and  knitting ;  and  the  people 
were  taught  that  such  occupations  were  far  better 
than  plays  and  masquerades.  No  white  traders 
were  allowed  in  the  village ;  no  drink  was  sold  ; 
and  no  man  who  played  cards  could  become  a  Native 
Helper. 

(e)  Religious  Instruction.  Let  us  not  imagine 
that  the  converts  were  ignorant.  At  the  confirmation 
classes  the  candidates  learned  the  Ten  Command- 
ments, the  Lord's  Prayer,  the  Apostles'  Creed,  the 
words  of  institution  for  the  Holy  Communion,  and 
several  hymns  and  passages  of  scripture.  But  one 
of  the  chief  objects  of  the  missionaries  was  to  make 
religious  worship  attractive.  At  the  morning  service 
they  sang  duets  and  trios,  and  at  the  evening  service 
they  used  a  gramophone.  In  all  their  work  the 
missionaries  received  much  aid  from  the  Native 
Helpers.  Some  of  those  Helpers  became  efficient 
preachers,  and  knew  how  to  speak  plainly  to  the 
people  about  their  sins.  In  two  senses  Quinhagak 
became  a  light  to  the  district.  For  the  benefit  of 
mariners,  the  Brethren  put  a  light  in  the  belfry. 
But  the  brightest  light  was  the  piety  of  the  Helpers. 

5.     The  Action  of  the  Government. 

For  some  years  before  the  Great  War  broke  out, 
the  U.S.A.  Government,  acting  on  Viscount  Bryce's 
principle  that  one  of  the  chief  duties  of  rulers  is  to 
protect  natives  against  unscrupulous  traders, 
had  taken  steps  to  protect  the  Eskimos  against  the 
evil  influence  of  gold-seekers  ;  and  this  action  on  the 
part  of  the  Government  affected  some  of  the  Brethren's 
methods  of  work.  At  Bethel  the  Government 
stationed  both  an  inspector  and  a  physician  ;  then 
it  took  over  the   Brethren's  boarding-school ;    next 


Alaska.  407 

it  opened  day-schools  in  the  neighbourhood  ;  and 
finally,  in  1913,  it  announced  that  it  intended  to  take 
over  education  entirely.  Thus  did  the  Brethren  in 
Alaska  lose,  to  some  extent,  their  control  over  the 
young  people  ;  and  the  action  of  the  Government 
caused  many  questions  to  be  asked :  Had  the 
Gk)vernment  really  acted  wisely  ?  Would  the  moral 
influence  in  the  Government  Schools  be  as  high  as  in 
the  Moravian  Schools  ?  And  would  the  Moravians 
themselves  be  able  to  supply  teachers  for  the  Govern- 
ment schools  ?  Such  questions  only  the  future 
could  answer. 


Chapter  VII. 

CALIFORNIA,    OR    THE    RAMONA    MISSION, 
1889—1914. 

The  first  impulse  was  given  by  a  lady  novelist. 
For  some  years  literary  circles  in  the  United  States 
had  been  reading  with  pleasure  the  poetry  of  a  lady 
who  signed  herself  "  H.H."  ;  in  1873  she  increased  her 
reputation  by  publishing  "  Bits  of  Travel  "  ;  in  1881 
she  wrote  a  good  novel,  "  A  Century  of  Dishonour  "  ; 
and  now,  in  her  still  finer  novel,  "Ramona"!  (1884) — 
written  after  a  visit  to  California — this  lady,  known 
now  as  Mrs.  Helen  Hunt  Jackson,  gave  such  a  vivid 
description  of  certain  crimes  committed  by  whites 
against  Californian  Red  Indians  that  widespread 
public  interest  was  aroused.  Mrs.  Jackson's  novel 
was  based  on  first-hand  evidence.  In  order  to  make 
quite  sure  of  her  facts  she  stayed  at  a  little  hotel  in 
St.  Jacinto  ;  there  she  interviewed  many  Indians 
and  made  copious  notes  ;  and  the  landlady  after- 
wards shewed  to  visitors  the  stool  on  which  the 
novelist  had  sat.  The  state  of  things  described  in 
Ramona  was  atrocious.  In  open  defiance  of  Cali- 
fornian law,  white  traders,  said  Mrs.  Jackson,  had 
often  encroached  on  Indian  territory,  stolen  Indian 
property,  and  then,  when  the  Indians  attempted 
vengeance,  had  them  condemned  by  corrupt  judges  ; 
and  so  keen  was  the  indignation  aroused  that  several 
societies  on  behalf  of  the  Indians  were  immediately 
formed.  Among  these  societies  one  was  called 
"  The    Women's    National    Indians'    Association  "  ; 

t"  Ramona "  has  recently  been  re-published  by  Sampson  Low, 
Marston  &  Co.  In  the  "  Cambridge  History  of  American 
Literature  "  it  is  described  as  "  passionately  pleading  the  cause 
of  the  Indians  of  California."  See  Vol.  III.,  p.  8G.  On  its 
literary  merits,  see  p.  89. 

(408) 


California,  or  the  Ramona  Mission.      409 

this  society  now  appealed  to  the  Moravian  Church ; 
and  the  precise  offer  made  was  that,  if  the  Moravians 
would  supply  a  missionary,  the  Association  would 
build  a  house  and  church  and  cover  all  expenses  for 
at  least  a  year.  In  response  to  this  suggestion, 
William  Weinland  was  appointed  ;  taking  his  wife 
and  children  with  him,  he  settled  down  at  Potrero, 
an  Indian  village  twenty-five  miles  east  of  Los 
Angeles  ;  and  there  and  then  the  first  Moravian 
Mission  Station  in  California  was  built.  1890 

As  the  Indians  were  then  in  a  very  degraded  state — 
so  degraded  that  an  English  visitor  called  them  a 
"  sorry  lot  " — Weinland  very  soon  discovered  that 
he  had  undertaken  a  hard  task.  At  the  very 
outset,  however,  he  had  a  pleasant  surprise.  At 
that  time  the  most  important  Indian  in  the  village 
was  a  certain  Captain  John  Morongo  ;  this  man  met 
Weinland  at  the  Railway  Station  at  Banning  ;  and 
forthwith  Morongo  informed  Weinland  that  if  the 
missionary  desired  to  purchase  land,  he  would  secure 
the  goodwill  of  his  people.  "  We  all  want  you  at 
Potrero,"  he  said.  "  If  you  will  settle  here,  I  will  get 
the  consent  of  the  tribe.  You  will,  I  fear,  find  us 
old  folk  a  hard  nut  to  crack  ;  but  perhaps  you'll 
be  able  to  make  something  of  the  young  ones." 
With  the  consent  of  the  Indians,  therefore,  Weinland 
bought  five  acres  ;  the  Women's  National  Indians' 
Association  provided  the  promised  money  for  the 
school  and  church ;  and  a  year  later  the  whole 
station  became  Moravian  property.  Potrero  is  2,000 
feet  above  sea-level,  and  is  on  the  southern  slope 
of  ^It.  Graybok.  The  site  is  between  two  mountain 
ranges.  On  the  north  side  stretch  the  St.  Bernardino 
Hills ;  on  the  south  the  St.  Jacinto  Hills ;  and  the 
district  to  the  east  is  called  the  Colorado  desert. 
In  due  time  two  more  stations  were  founded,  Martinez 
(1896)  a  little  to  the  north-west  of  Dry  Salt  Lake, 


410        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

and  Rincon  (1902)  some  miles  further  south  ;  and 
La  Jollaf  and  Pechanga,  between  these  last  two, 
were  preaching  places.  In  the  numerical  sense  this 
Mission  might  be  called  disappointing.  At  the  close 
of  twenty-three  years  of  labour  the  total  number  of 
communicant  members  was  only  104  ;  the  number 
of  Sunday  scholars  was  only  180  ;  and  the  average 
attendance  at  the  four  places  of  worship  was  only  41. 
But  the  real  value  of  this  Mission  cannot  be  judged  by 
statistics.  In  addition  to  their  work  as  preachers  of 
the  Gospel,  William  Weinland  and  his  colleagues 
have  had  several  difficult  problems  to  solve  ;  they 
have  acted,  not  merely  as  preachers,  but  as  resolute 
social  reformers  ;  and  the  value  of  their  work  must  be 
judged,  not  merely  by  the  number  of  converts  they 
have  gained,  but  by  their  success  in  improving  the 
conditions  of  Indian  life.  Let  us  now  study  the  five 
great  problems  with  which  these  missionaries  have  had 
to  deal. 

1.  The  Land  Problem.  This  problem  was  really 
due  to  the  unsatisfactory  American  system  of  land 
tenure.  According  to  that  system  the  Indians 
lived  on  so  many  Indian  Reservations.  In  each  case 
the  land  was  granted  by  the  Government,  not  to  an 
individual,  but  to  a  tribe  ;  this  tribe,  in  turn,  sublet 
allotments  to  farmers  ;  and  each  farmer,  in  theory, 
was  entitled  to  so  many  acres.  If  he  was  married,  he 
was  entitled  to  twenty  ;  if  he  was  single,  he  had  only 
ten  ;  and  the  under-lying  principle  was  that,  in  either 
case,  the  Indian,  having  security  of  property,  would 
cease  to  be  an  idle  vagabond  and  become  an 
industrious  farmer.  As  long  as  he  paid  his  rent,  it 
was  said,  he  could  not  be  legally  dispossessed.  First, 
the  Government  guaranteed  land  to  the  tribe  ;  then 
the  tribe  guaranteed  land  to  the  farmer  ;  and  thus,  in 

fPronounced  "  La  Hoya." 


California,  or  the  Ramona  Mission.      411 

theory,  the  system  was  ideal.     But  Weinland  very 
soon  made  some  strange  discoveries.     At  the  time 
of  his  arrival  the  land  laws  of  California  were  still 
in  such  a  state  of  confusion,  that  Weinland  could  not 
feel  sure  that  the  Moravian  Church  owned  its  own 
property,"!"  and  eighteen  so-called  Indian  Reservations 
had  not  yet  been  confirmed  by  Congress.     But  the 
chief  cause  of  trouble  was  the  Reservation  system 
itself.     The  mode  of  land  tenure  in  California  was 
similar  to  that  in  Indian  Territory,   and  it  led  to 
exactly  the  same  results.     As  long  as  the  farmer 
rented  his  land  from  a  tribe,  he  had  no  security  of 
tenure  ;    the  Indians  themselves  saw  where  the  fault 
lay,  and   were  constantly  holding  meetings  on  the 
land  question  ;    and  most  of  the  Indians,  so  far  from 
being  good  farmers,  roamed  the  land  like  tramps, 
ate  like  dogs  from  stone  plates,  drank  to  excess  and 
allowed  their  children  to  run  about  half  naked  in 
winter  and  stark  naked  in  summer.     "  The  Reserva- 
tion  System,"   said   Weinland,    "  must   go.     If  the 
Indian  is  to  make  a  good  farmer,  he  must  not  be  under 
the  control  of  the  tribe  ;   he  must  have  a  Government 
trust-deed  ;    and,   if  he  proves   himself  worthy,   he 
must    be    allowed    to    become    a    freeholder."     For 
twenty-three   years    (1890-1913)    Weinland    agitated 
in  vain  ;    and  in  1913  he  said,  "  There  is  no  positive 
guarantee  that  an  Indian,  after  improving  a  piece  of 
land,  will  ever  own  it."     At  last  he  saw  a  faint  gleam 
of  hope.     In  November,  1913,  he  was  summoned  to 

fThe  process  of  making  the  Moravian  property  secure  took  twenty- 
seven  years  to  accomplish.     The  chief  steps  were  as  follows  : — 
(a)     Law   passed    (1887)   that,    with   the    consent   of   the 
Secretary  of  the  Interior,  a  missionary  society  may 
occupy  100  acres. 
(6)    The  Attorney  General  declares  (1890)  that  no  society 
may  occupy  land  without  the  consent  of  the  Indians. 

(c)  Martinez  (1903)  declared  an  Indian  Reservation. 

(d)  A  missionary  society  may  hold  land  in  fee  simple  (1909). 
(e.)    The  Moravian  Church  granted  full  patent  rights  in  her 

property  (1914). 


412        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

appear  before  the  Indian  Committee  of  Congress  at 
Los  Angeles,  there  he  was  cross-examined  for  an 
hour  ;  and  next  month  a  Bill  was  introduced  whereby 
land  might  be  "  pro-rated  "  to  individual  Indians. 
But  once  more  Weinland  was  doomed  to  disappoint- 
ment ;  all  kinds  of  official  delays  occurred  ;  and  Wein- 
land's  last  report  was  that  no  practical  steps  had  yet 
been  taken. f 

But  Weinland  was  not  content  with  mere  agitation. 
With  the  aid  of  borrowed  money,  he  and  his  colleagues 
let  fruit-farms  to  the  Indians,  both  at  Potrero  and 
Martinez.  In  each  case  the  Indians  promptly  repaid 
the  loan  ;  Indian  fruit-farming  became  a  flourishing 
business  ;  and  thus  Weinland  proved  that,  given  his 
chance,  the  Indian  can  become  both  industrious  and 
thrifty. 

Thirdly,  at  the  request  of  the  missionaries,  the 
Government  sank  several  artesian  wells.  In  1890 
Martinez  was  a  desert ;  in  1914  it  was  producing 
alfalfa  and  melons  ;  and  the  Indians  now  lived  in 
better  cottages  and  enjoyed  better  health. 

2.  The  Drink  Problem.  This  problem  was 
closely  connected  with  the  land  problem.  As  long 
as  the  Indians  had  no  securitj'^  of  tenure,  they  were 
naturally  tempted  to  neglect  their  farms  and  earn 
good  wages  by  working  for  the  whites  ;  and  although 
by  law  no  licensed  victualler  was  allowed  to  sell 
drink  to  Indians,  so  much  whisky  was  smuggled  in 
that  the  law  was  often  a  dead  letter.  The  so-called 
annual  "  Indian  Fair  "  was  also  a  source  of  trouble. 
As  this  institution  was  sanctioned  by  the  Government, 
the  Indians  argued  that  it  must  be  respectable ; 
and  yet  it  was  really  the  occasion  of  much  horse- 
racing,  gambling,  and  all-night  dancing.  In  order 
to  overcome  these  evils  Weinland  gave  a  series  of 

fSee  "  Periodical  Accounts,"  September,  1915. 


California,  or  the  Ramoxa  Mission.      413 

lectures  on  temperance,  shewed  the  evils  of  drink  by 
means  of  a  lantern,  and  persuaded  many  of  the 
hardest  drinkers  to  take  the  pledge.  In  1891  he  had 
often  to  stop  drunken  brawls  in  the  village ;  in 
1895  he  reported  that  no  more  drunkards  were  left 
at  Potrero  ;  and  in  1913  nearly  all  his  people  there 
were  abstainers. 

3.  The  School  Problem.  The  case  of  California 
is  almost  unique.  In  California  the  education  of 
Indian  children  is  entirely  in  the  hands  of  the  Govern- 
ment. On  the  Indian  Reservations  the  Government 
opened  day-schools  ;  for  older  children  there  were 
also  Government  boarding-schools  at  Banning  and 
Riverside ;  and  the  consequence  of  tliis  arrange- 
ment has  been  that,  while  the  missionaries  can  teach 
the  children  on  Sundays,  they  have  little  influence 
over  them  during  the  week.  For  ten  months  each 
year  the  older  children  are  all  away  at  boarding- 
schools.  In  the  reports  from  California,  therefore, 
no  day-schools  are  mentioned,  and  the  only  educa- 
tional privilege  granted  the  Brethren  was  that 
Weinland  was  allowed  to  visit  the  boarding-schools 
and  give  the  Moravian  pupils  Bible  instruction. 

4.  The  Medical  Problem.  The  most  common 
disease  among  the  Indians  was  tuberculosis.  In 
order  to  teach  the  people  good  habits,  the  Govern- 
ment appointed  matrons ;  but  the  real  difficulty 
in  the  matter  was  that  the  Indians,  being  regarded 
as  "  wards "  of  the  Government,  could  not  be 
admitted  to  the  public  hospitals.  Why,  then,  it 
might  be  asked,  did  not  the  Moravian  Church  build 
a  hospital  ?  Because  there  was  no  money  for  the 
purpose. 

5.  The  Religious  Problem.  According  to  three 
missionaries  in  California — William  Weinland,  David 
Woosley,    and    C.   Delbo — the    chief   opposition    to 


414        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Moravian  work  has  sprung  from  the  Church  of  Rome. 
For  some  years  the  Church  of  Rome  had  neglected  the 
Indians  ;  now  they  renewed  their  activities  ;  and, 
not  content  with  legitimate  methods — not  content, 
i.e.,  to  build  chapels,  to  preach,  and  to  visit — they 
resorted  to  other  methods  unworthy  of  Christians  : — 

(a)     First,  they  employed  falsehood  and  violence. 
At  the  very  outset  of  the  Moravian  cam- 
paign the  local  Catholic  priest  informed  the 
Indians  that  the  Bible  used  by  Protestants 
was  written  by  Martin  Luther,  that  Luther 
had     committed     suicide,     and     that     all 
who  attended  the  Moravian  Church  would 
go    to    purgatory.     One    Roman    Catholic 
Indian  shot  at  Weinland  ;    other  Indians, 
incited    by    a    priest,    stole    into    Captain 
Morongo's    house,    and    smeared    his    meat 
and  potatoes  with  strychnine  ;    and  when 
a  Moravian  convert  died  of  pneumonia  a 
priest    said    that    all    who    attended    the 
Moravian  Church  would  suffer  the  same  fate. 
{h)     The  second  method  was  the  use  of  Govern- 
ment officials.     At  one  time,  e.g.,  Superin- 
tendent  Sullivan,    instigated   by   Catholics, 
actually  asked  the  Indian   Office  to  expel 
Weinland    from    Cahfornia    (1912)  ;      and, 
when  his  request  was  refused,  he  suggested 
that  the  Moravians  at  Potrero  should  be 
allowed  to  own  only  the  land  covered  by 
the  Mission  buildings. 

In  California,  therefore,  the  success  of  the  Moravian 
work  depends  largely  on  the  personal  character  of 
the  local  government  official.  If  he  is  a  fair-minded 
man,  the  missionaries  can  pursue  their  work  in  peace  ; 
if  he  is  a  religious  bigot,  difficulties  are  placed  in 
their   way ;     and   the   Roman   Catholics   constantly 


California,  or  the  Ramona  Mission.      415 

endeavour  to  have  as  many  Roman  Catholic  officials 
appointed  as  possible.  Thus,  e.g.,  in  1912,  the 
missionaries  could  make  little  progress.  At  Rincon 
the  sub-agent  Avas  a  Roman  Catholic  ;  at  La  Jolla 
the  Government  day-school  teacher  was  a  Roman 
Catholic  ;  and  such  officials  took  care  to  inform  the 
Indians  that  if  they  attended  the  Moravian  Church 
they  had  less  chance  of  obtaining  certain  privileges 
from  the  Government.  To  be  a  Roman  Catholic 
was  to  be  favoured  by  officials  ;  to  be  a  Protestant 
was  to  be  insulted.  Above  all,  declared  Weinland, 
the  priests  pandered  to  the  popular  love  of  sinful 
pleasure.  Weinland  would  not  allow  his  converts  to 
attend  the  Indian  "  fiestas  "  or  festivals  ;  the  priests 
encouraged  these  festivals  and  claimed  to  give  them 
a  religious  flavour ;  and  Weinland  conscientiously 
believed  that  the  priests  gained  more  converts 
than  he  did — not  because  they  w^ere  more  efficient 
or  devoted,  but  because  they  placed  before  the  people 
a  lower  moral  ideal. 

"  Is    it   warm    in    California  ?  "    said   a   friend   to 
Weinland. 

"  No,"  said  Weinland,  "  it  is  hot." 

And   those   words   were   true   of   more   than   the 
climate. 


Chapter  VIII. 

NORTH   QUEENSLAND,   1891—1914. 

1.    The  Strange  Approach. 

Once  more  we  have  a  fine  example  of  co-operation 
between  two  Churches.  For  some  years  the 
Presbyterians  of  Victoria  impressed  by 
Hagenauer's  work  at  Ramahyuck,  had  been  taking 
an  increasing  interest  in  Foreign  Missions  ;  in  1887 
Hagenauer  himself  visited  the  north-east  coast  of 
Queensland ;  soon  afterwards,  at  Sydney,  he 
addressed  the  Synod  of  the  United  Presbyterian 
Church  of  Australia  ;  and  finally,  in  1890,  A.  Hardie, 
the  Moderator,  writing  to  the  Moravian  Mission 
Board,  promised  that  if  the  Moravians  would  find  the 
men  the  Presbyterians  would  find  the  bulk  of  the 
money.  To  this  arrangement  the  Mission  Board 
agreed  ;  two  men,  James  Ward  and  Nicholas  Hey, 
were  appointed  ;  and  landing  at  Melbourne,  July, 
1890,  the  two  pioneers  were  greeted  by  old  Hagenauer 
on  the  quay. 
1890  But  now  the  two  pioneers  had  a  painful  surprise. 

For  six  months  they  were  engaged  in  dealing  with 
various  forms  of  opposition.  In  spite  of  Hagenauer's 
success  at  Ramahyuck,  there  still  existed  among  the 
laity  a  feeling  that  the  Papus  were  hopeless.  Accord- 
ing to  popular  rumour  they  were  cannibals  ;  recently 
some  of  them  had  eaten  two  white  men ;  and 
Hagenauer  himself  had  boldly  stated  that,  on 
the  whole,  the  Papus  of  North  Queensland 
were  even  more  degraded  than  those  of  Victoria. 
In  the  towns  they  slouched  in  rags  and  tatters, 
begging,  drinking,  and  smoking ;  in  their  own  homes 
they  practised  communism,  not  only  in  matters 
of  property,  but  also  in  marriage  matters  ;   and  fights 

(416) 


^"'S^^^'O^BanJ^sI. 


Tpr  r 


s 

es 


Strait 


143 

NORTH  QUEENSLAND 

Stotvt*  Miles 


Prince  of  WaJes/"%JHU)Vn  |,     (..York 

IV  «7^^  ^  Somerset 
'•^>r  S^^    7       /  Newcastle  B. 


0  10         20         3D 

S      farmer  Statioma 


E.from  Greenwch 


Oe»ryt  Ptulip  4  Sen,  LU. 


XoRTH  Queensland.  417 

between  Papus  and  whites  had  long  been  a  common 
occurrence.  For  these  sanguinary  fights,  however, 
certain  white  traders  were  really  responsible.  With 
revolvers  in  their  hands,  traders  had  often  pillaged 
Papu  camps  ;  in  revenge  the  Papus  had  used  their 
spears  ;  and  thus  the  Papus  had  obtained  a  reputa- 
tion worse  than  they  deserved.  The  result  was 
deplorable.  At  nearly  every  town  they  visited 
Ward  and  Hey  had  a  mixed  reception.  At  Mel- 
bo\irne,  it  is  true.  Canon  Chase  encouraged  them, 
and  gave  them  a  first-class  pass  on  the  railway ; 
but  on  their  journey  northwards,  they  met  with 
many  discouragements.  At  Sydney  only  the 
children  showed  much  interest,  and  at  Brisbane,  in 
North  Queensland,  they  made  the  painful  discovery 
that,  while  the  Premier,  Sir  Samuel  Griffith,  gave 
them  a  kindly  welcome,  most  of  the  regular  church- 
goers regarded  them  as  milksops.  At  that  time  the 
prevailing  opinion  in  North  Queensland  was  that  if 
a  minister  came  from  the  old  country,  he  was  almost 
certain  to  be  a  worthless  character.  If  he  was 
English,  he  was  a  fool ;  if  he  was  Irish,  he  was  a 
freak  ;  and  one  minister,  speaking  to  Ward,  stated 
the  case  quite  bluntly  :  "  I  tell  you  what  it  is,  Mr. 
Ward,"  he  said,  "  people  in  Queensland  have  so 
often  been  taken  in  with  ministers  from  the  old 
country,  it's  no  wonder  they  are  somewhat  dis- 
trustful of  newcomers  of  whom  they  know  nothing. 
If  you  prove  yourself  a  decent  sort  of  fellow,  you  will 
gain  support.  If  not,  you  won't.  That's  all."  The 
Hon.  Horace  Tozer,  Home  Secretary  for  Public  W^orks, 
gave  Ward  some  more  plain  speech.  He  informed 
him  that  while  the  Queensland  Government  would, 
for  a  brief  period,  provide  the  natives  with  food, 
none  of  that  food  must  be  consumed  by  the 
missionaries ;  and  Ward,  wondering  why  such  a 
warning  was  needed,   had  the  wisdom  to  hold  his 

2B 


418        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

peace.  The  amount  of  pessimism  in  Queensland 
was  enormous.  The  nearer  the  Brethren  approached 
their  destination,  the  more  critical  and  scornful 
everybody  seemed.  At  Townsville  a  candid  host 
informed  them  that  he  had  prepared  to  receive  a 
couple  of  fossils ;  at  Cooktown  another,  equally 
candid,  said  that  he  had  expected  idiots  ;  and 
others  warned  them  that  the  enterprise  was  hope- 
less. "  You  are  fools,"  they  said,  "  you  don't 
know  these  blacks ;  they  are  treacherous  and 
malicious  ;  they  are  cannibals,  and  will  probably 
kill  and  eat  you ;  and,  even  if  they  don't,  you 
needn't  imagine  that  you'll  make  them  Christians. 
The  fact  is,  they  are  not  fit  to  live,  and  ought  to  be 
killed  off." 

Meanwhile,  however,  there  M'as  a  bright  side 
to  the  picture.  Amid  these  warnings  and  fore- 
bodings, the  Hon.  John  Douglas,  Governor 
Resident,  A.  Hardie,  and  S.  Robinson  had  dis- 
covered a  site  for  the  first  Mission  Station,  named 
Mapoon,  near  the  mouth  of  the  Batavia  River ; 
soon  afterwards  Ward,  Mrs.  Ward,  and  Hey  arrived 
at  Thursday  Island  ;  and  there,  in  his  own  home, 
the  Hon.  John  Douglas  expounded  his  plan  of 
campaign.  For  the  voyage  to  Mapoon,  he  said,  he 
had  two  vessels  ready.  In  the  first,  the  Albatross, 
Ward  and  Hey,  guarded  by  troopers,  would  sail ; 
in  the  second,  the  Dickie,  four  carpenters  would 
bring  the  building  materials  ;  and,  Mrs.  Ward  being 
somewhat  ill,  the  arrangement  was  that  while  Hey 
stayed  at  Mapoon  to  build  the  house.  Ward,  after 
inspecting  the  site,  should  return  to  Thursday 
Island  to  fetch  his  wife.  In  vain  both  Ward  and 
Hey  protested  against  the  presence  of  troopers. 
The  Governor  was  adamant ;  the  Brethren  yielded 
the  point ;  and  many  friends  applauded  their 
decision.     "  You    can    never    trust    these    rascals," 


North  Queensland.  419 

they  said.  "  You  had  better  look  out.  If  needful, 
shoot  them.  Above  all,  never  let  a  black  get  behind 
you." 

The  foregoing  arrangements  were  soon  carried  into  Nov.  26th, 
effect.  As  soon  as  the  Albatross  reached  her  destina-  1890 
tion,  the  Captain,  Brethren,  and  troopers  stepped 
ashore  ;  on  the  beach  stood  a  great  crowd  of  Papus  ; 
and  the  Captain,  addressing  a  man  named  Bos'n, 
who  had  kept  his  two  front  upper  teeth,  opened 
negotiations. 

*'  Where  do  you  belong  ?  "  said  the  Captain. 

"  Me  belong  here,"  said  Bos'n. 

"  But  why  have  you  kept  your  front  teeth  ?  " 

"  He  no  like  it,"  said  another  Papu,  "  and  dat  no 
use." 

To  James  Ward  this  last  speech  was  a  star  of  hope. 
If  a  Papu  could  think  for  himself,  he  might  be 
induced  to  listen  to  the  Gospel.  For  two  and  a  half 
hours  the  visitors  inspected  the  site ;  three  days 
later  Ward,  on  the  Albatross,  returned  to  Thursday 
Island  ;  and  now  with  the  Captain  and  the  four 
carpenters,  Nicholas  Hey  was  left  among  the  wild 
Papus.  For  three  weeks  he  was  busy  as  architect 
and  builder  ;  and,  during  those  three  weeks,  he  won 
the  hearts  of  the  natives.  With  his  strong  right 
arm,  he  felled  the  trees  ;  with  his  own  hands  he 
cooked  his  own  meals ;  and,  boldly  leaving  his 
rifle  behind,  he  visited  the  native  camp.  On  the 
natives  his  conduct  acted  like  magic.  For  the  first 
time  in  their  experience  they  beheld  a  white 
man  without  a  weapon  in  his  hand  ;  kind  words, 
instead  of  curses,  now  delighted  their  ears  ;  and  Hey, 
to  their  amazement,  dressed  a  boy's  wounded  foot, 
clad  an  orphan  in  trousers,  and  gave  presents  to  the 
children.  Forthwith  the  Papus  showed  signs  of 
gratitude.  Each  morning  they  gathered  round  him 
to  hear  him  read  the  Texts  ;    some,  with  officious 


420        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

zeal,  picked  insects  off  his  skin ;  and  others,  in 
return  for  meal  and  tobacco,  helped  him  to  build 
the  Mission-house. 

Meanwhile,  his  personal  sufferings  were  intense. 
For  ten  days  he  lived  on  nothing  but  damper.^ 
For  ten  nights  he  had  not  a  second  of  sleep,  and  one 
day  he  made  the  dreadful  discovery  that  his  drinking- 
water  came  from  the  bathing-pool.  At  night  his 
mind  was  torn  between  faith  and  fear.  On  the  bed 
beside  him  in  the  hut  lay  Ford,  the  policeman ; 
between  the  two  men  lay  two  loaded  rifles  ;  and  Hey, 
peering  through  a  crevice,  could  see  the  natives 
dancing  round  their  camp-fire.  Among  those  natives 
were  some  who  had  eaten  whites,  and  Hey  wondered 
how  soon  his  own  turn  would  come. 

At  the  end  of  three  weeks,  however.  Hey  had  the 
Mission-house  nearly  ready ;  on  December  20th, 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ward  arrived  on  the  scene  ;  and  Mrs. 
Ward,  writing  to  a  friend  in  England,  recorded  her 
first  impressions  of  the  natives.  "  I  wish,"  she 
said,  "  you  could  see  the  people  as  I  saw  them  on 
the  day  of  my  arrival.  There  were  about  eighty 
women  and  girls  sitting  in  a  semi-circle  ;  most  of  them 
quite  without  clothing ;  others  with  a  piece  of 
calico  tied  round  their  loins.  Such  a  spectacle  ! 
Many  of  them  full  of  sores,  one  old  woman  blind,  one 
with  cancer.  My  dear  old  friend,  I  cannot  tell  you 
how  miserable  I  felt.  I  would  have  given  anything  to 
be  in  Europe  again.  I  felt  I  had  no  love  for  these 
people,  and  I  could  never  work  among  them." 

2.     The  First  Year.  1891.  ^1 

1891  ^^^  about  a  year  after  their  arrival  at  Mapoon,     * 

Ward  and  Hey  were  employed,  partly  in  tilling  the 

IThis  was  his  own  fault,  it  might  be  aaid.  He  refused  to  open 
the  boxes.  Why  ?  Because,  I  presume  he  was  over-scrupulous, 
and  did  not  wish  to  use  food  designed  partly  for  his  colleagues. 
This,  however,  is  only  my  conjecture. 


North  Queensland.  421 

soil,  partly  in  stud}'ing  the  people,  and  partly  in 
teaching  law  and  order ;  and  thereby  they  took 
the  first  steps  towards  turning  a  native  camp  into  a 
Christian  village. 

(a)  At  first  the  agricultural  prospects  were  not 
encouraging.  For  two  and  a  half  miles  between  river 
and  sea  there  ran  a  flat  sandy  beach.  At  the  north 
end  was  Cullen  Point  ;  at  the  south  end  there 
was  a  screen  of  mangroves  ;  to  the  west  lay  a  few- 
sandy  ridges  ;  and  the  whole  place  seemed  more 
suited  for  a  golf-course  than  for  a  Mission-station. 
For  their  own  special  needs,  however,  the  Brethren 
had  been  granted  two  acres  of  land  ;  and  these  two 
acres  they  soon  turned  into  a  garden.  They  enclosed 
the  land  with  a  paling  ;  they  built  a  bridge  over  the 
water-course  ;  they  laid  out  garden-beds,  bordered 
by  paths ;  they  planted  bananas,  potatoes,  shrubs, 
limes,  and  cocoa-nut  trees  ;  they  opened  a  dairy- 
farm  ;  and  they  even  tried,  with  varying  success, 
to  grow  cabbages  and  pumpkins  beneath  the  raised 
floor  of  the  Mission-house.  In  all  this  work  the 
natives  were  asked  to  assist,  and  the  Brethren 
soon  arranged  a  daily  programme.  At  seven  the 
missionaries  breakfasted  in  the  Mission-house  ;  then 
a  loud  bell  was  rung ;  and  every  morning  Ward  or 
Hey  conducted  family  prayers  in  the  open  air. 
For  the  next  two  and  a  half  hours,  i.e.,  7.80  a.m.  to 
10  a.m.,  the  men,  under  Hey  as  foreman,  were 
engaged  in  useful  labour  ;  \Vard  taught  boys  on  the 
verandah  steps  ;  and  Mrs.  Ward  taught  the  girls  to 
sew,  and  cooked  both  for  the  Brethren  and  for  the 
workmen.  At  ten  the  men  had  dinner  ;  in  the  after- 
noon they  resumed  their  labours  ;  and  at  half-past  five, 
after  tea,  they  were  paid  and  returned  to  the  camp. 
If  ever  men  were  kindly  treated,  it  was  surely  those 
Papu  labourers  at  Mapoon.  They  worked  five  hours 
a  day  ;  they  received  not  only  their  pay,  but  two  good 


422        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

meals  ;  they  all  enjoyed  a  quiet  smoke  after  dinner  ; 
and  they  had  their  evenings  to  themselves.  In 
spite,  however,  of  the  Brethren's  kindness,  most  of 
the  men  were  both  ungrateful  and  deceitful.  The 
milkman  watered  the  milk ;  the  labourers  grumbled, 
and  asked  for  three  meals  a  day  ;  and  all,  young  and 
old  alike,  were  constantly  cheating  each  other. 
Sometimes  the  Brethren  distributed  fish,  and  then 
the  amount  of  cheating  was  enormous.  With  an 
innocent  smile  upon  his  face,  a  native  snatched  up 
a  fish  with  his  foot  and  hid  it  behind  his  back  ; 
another  deftly  buried  his  fish  in  the  sand  ;  and  a 
third  sat  on  his  fish  and  asked  for  more.  In  addition 
to  these  troubles,  the  Brethren  suffered  much  from 
tropical  pests.  On  one  occasion  a  snake  devoured 
ten  chickens ;  ticks  attacked  the  cows ;  dingoes 
ravaged  the  hen-roost ;  and  the  bull  perished  un- 
timely. At  this  last  disaster  James  Ward  humbly 
contrasted  himself  with  the  prophet  Habakkuk. 
"  Though  there  shall  be  no  herd  in  the  stalls,"  said  the 
prophet  (Hab.  iii.,  17,  18),  "  yet  I  will  rejoice  in  the 
Lord."  To  such  heights  Ward  did  not  claim  to  rise. 
"  I  could  not,"  he  confessed,  "  joy  on  that  occasion." 

(b)  In  medical  matters  the  Brethren  could  do 
very  little.  They  used  a  few  simple  remedies,  dressed 
wounds,  tried  to  teach  common-sense,  and  studied 
some  of  the  native  superstitions.  One  evening 
James  Ward  watched  the  people  dealing  with  a  man 
who  had  fallen  from  a  tree.  The  man's  mother  tied 
a  rope  round  his  body  and  worked  the  loose  end  to 
and  fro  in  her  mouth. 

"  What  is  she  doing  that  for  ?  "  asked  Ward. 

"  She  is  sucking  the  blood  out  of  his  body,"  said 
the  man's  relatives,  *'  in  a  few  minutes  it  will  run 
along  the  rope." 

"  Impossible,"  retorted  Ward,  "  no  blood  can  come 
unless  you  make  a  wound." 


North  Queensland.  428 

"  You  are  wrong,"  said  the  man's  brother.  "  Just 
you  watch.     She  will  soon  spit  blood." 

"Yes,"  said  Ward,  "but  that  will  be  her  ovm. 
blood."  The  result  can  be  imagined.  Next  morning 
the  triumphant  natives  showed  Ward  a  pool  of 
blood  on  the  ground ;  the  patient,  however,  showed  no 
signs  of  improvement ;  and  the  experts  explained  the 
failure  by  saying  that  his  spirit  was  roaming  the  woods. 

(c)  Laiv  and  Order.  Let  one  example  suffice. 
For  sheer  mystery  and  complication  James  Ward 
had  never  read  anything  to  compare  with  a  curious 
incident  which  occurred  at  Mapoon  ;  the  characters 
in  the  story  were  six  in  number  ;  and  these  six — four 
men,  Cook,  Pumpkin,  Dungeon,  and  Charlie  Manners, 
and  two  women.  Cook's  sister  and  Pumpkin's 
sister — behaved  in  a  manner  which,  while  it  threw 
some  light  on  native  customs,  drove  Ward  to 
the  verge  of  distraction.  First,  without  Ward's 
knowledge.  Dungeon  married  Miss  Pumpkin ; 
then,  also  without  Ward's  knowledge.  Manners 
married  ISIiss  Cook  ;  then  Mrs.  Dungeon  fell  in  love 
with  Cook  ;  and  then  Dungeon,  in  a  fit  of  jealousy, 
stabbed  Cook  in  the  back.  The  situation  soon  led  to 
strange  complications.  One  morning,  on  the  verandah 
steps,  James  Ward  beheld  a  marvellous  scene. 
There,  before  him,  stood  the  wounded  Cook ;  there 
stood  Mrs.  Dungeon,  clinging  to  her  new  lover ; 
there  also  stood  Dungeon,  trying  to  pull  his  wife  off  ; 
and  there,  behind,  stood  a  crowd  of  Papus  appealing 
to  Ward  to  settle  the  dispute.  To  Ward,  of  course, 
the  case  seemed  simple  enough.  For  anything  he 
knew  to  the  contrary  Mrs.  Dungeon  was  still  single  ; 
Cook  and  she  seemed  devoted  to  each  other  ;  and 
acting  on  this  assumption,  he  ordered  Dungeon 
to  let  the  two  go  in  peace.  ^.  ^^  ^ 

"  Are  you  willing,"  said  he  to  Pumpkin,  "  to  give 
your  sister  to  Cook  ?  " 


ft 


424        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

"  Yes,"  said  Pumpkin. 

"  Will  the  law  allow  you  to  give  your  sister  to 
Cook  ?  " 

"  Yes,"  said  Pumpkin. 

At  this  interesting  point,  however,  just  when 
Ward  thought  the  matter  was  amicably  settled, 
two  other  men  stepped  forward  and  shouted,  "  Cook 
pay  !  Cook  pay  !  "  dragged  Pumpkin  over  to  Cook's 
sister,  and  then  brought  both  Pumpkin  and  the 
girl  to  Ward.  For  the  first  time  Ward  was  genuinely 
puzzled. 

"  What  has  this  fresh  girl  to  do  with  the  business  ?  " 
he  asked. 

"  She  Cook's  sister."  they  shouted.  "  Cook  pay 
Pumpkin,  for  sister  belong  to  him." 

For  a  moment  Ward  imagined  he  had  found  the 
solution.  P^ach  of  the  lovers,  Cook  and  Pumpkin, 
had  a  sister  ;  each  wanted  a  wife  ;  and  the  obvious 
idea  Avas  that  if  Cook  would  give  his  sister  to 
Pumpkin,  Pumpkin  in  return  would  give  his  sister 
to  Cook.  At  this  point,  however.  Ward  made  a 
baffling  discovery  ;  each  of  the  girls,  he  found,  was 
married  already  ;  and,  therefore,  he  now  declared 
that  neither  girl  could  marry  her  new  lover.  Each 
must  remain  true  to  her  husband,  and  there  the 
matter  must  end. 

"  How  can  the  girls  be  sold  ?  "  he  asked,  "  they 
both  belong  already  to  some  one  else." 

"  But  that  doesn't  matter,"  retorted  the  Papus. 

"  Well,"  said  Ward,  "  me  no  savvy  your  law. 
Me  glad  when  you  savvy  Jesus  Christ,  then  you  no 
do  such  things." 

The  dispute  had  a  strange  conclusion.  According 
to  Papu  law  a  man  could  sell  his  sister  in  marriage 
even  if  she  was  married  already,  and  that  was  how 
this  problem  was  solved.  Each  of  the  husbands 
had  to  part  from  his  wife  ;    each  new  lover  married 


North  Queensland.  425 

the    other's    sister ;     and    each    couple,    to     escape 
reprisals,  went  off  on  a  long  honeymoon. 

{d)  Tlie  First  Gospel  Lessons.  As  teachers  of 
children  need  to  know  child  psychology,  so  preachers 
to  the  heathen  need  to  know  heathen  psychology  ; 
and,  acting  on  this  scientific  principle,  both  Ward 
and  Hey  adapted  their  methods  to  the  ideas  of  the 
natives.  According  to  the  Papus  of  North  Queens- 
land, the  chief  seat  of  intelligence  was  the  ear. 
Clever  men  they  called  ear-good  ;  stupid  men  they 
called  ear-bad,  and,  therefore,  to  the  ear  the 
missionaries  made  their  first  appeal.  Instead  of 
teaching  systematic  doctrine,  they  took  certain 
simple  sentences,  such  as,  "  Jesus  loves  me  "  ;  re- 
peated each  sentence  hundreds  of  times ;  and, 
using  Sankey's  "  Sacred  Songs  and  Solos,"  sang 
the  most  popular  hymns  again  and  again. 

The  second  way  to  the  soul,  said  the  natives,  was 
the  eye.  By  means  of  pictures,  therefore,  the 
missionaries  taught  the  Papus  the  story  of  Christ.  In 
one  book  they  had  pictures  of  the  Crucified  and 
Risen  Christ ;  in  another  there  was  a  good  heart 
and  a  bad  heart ;  and  the  natives  were  told  that 
Christ  had  come  to  take  the  bad  heart  away  and 
put  the  good  one  in  its  place.  For  some  months 
the  Brethren  had  little  idea  how  far  this  teaching 
was  understood.  Did  the  natives  know  what  was 
meant  by  the  terms  "good"  and  "bad"?  Both 
the  good  and  the  bad,  they  said,  vanished,  after 
death,  among  the  bushes ;  and  one  common  idea  seems 
to  have  been  that  while  the  men  were  immortal 
and  had  their  souls  carried  away  by  angels  disguised 
as  blackbirds,  the  women,  being  inferior  creatures, 
lived  and  died  like  dogs.  But  what  the  natives 
meant  by  "  good  "  and  "  bad  "  was  not  yet  quite 
clear.  On  the  lives  of  the  people  generally  the 
Gospel   had,   as   yet,   but  little   effect.     Night   after 


426        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

night  the  camp  was  still  a  cock-pit ;  night  after  night 
Ward  and  Hey  rushed  among  the  flying  spears  ; 
and  Mrs.  Ward,  alone  in  the  Mission-house,  trembled 
for  the  result.  No  one,  she  said,  would  wilfully 
hurt  the  missionaries  ;  the  real  danger  was  death 
by  accident ;  and  that  danger  was  hardly  ever 
absent.  In  the  schoolroom  itself,  however,  shone 
faint  gleams  of  hope.  Good  scholars  earned  a  few 
rewards  ;  on  Sundays,  after  the  Church  was  opened, 
the  people  listened  quietly  ;  and  one  boy  delighted 
the  Brethren  by  calhng  Mrs.  Ward  "  Mother." 
At  the  close,  therefore,  of  1891,  the  missionaries 
had  made  some  definite  progress.  They  had  taught 
some  of  the  men  to  be  industrious  ;  they  had  won  the 
esteem  of  all  by  tending  the  sick  ;  they  had  learned 
the  natives'  ideas  on  marriage  ;  and,  in  a  few  cases, 
they  had  taught  the  young  to  think  about  Christ. 

8.     The    Fight    with    the    Traders,    1893-4. 

For  many  years  the  west  coast  of  North  Queensland 
had  been  the  scene  of  a  flourishing  pearl  industry  ; 
on  the  pearl-luggers  many  Papus  were  employed ; 
and  the  controversy  between  the  Brethren  and  the 
traders  arose,  not  because  the  Brethren  objected 
to  the  trade,  which  came  later  under  Government 
supervision,  but  because  many  of  the  captains,  by 
their  wicked  personal  example,  ruined  the  morals 
of  the  natives.  On  the  economic  side  the  trade 
conditions  were  excellent.  No  Papu  was  enlisted 
against  his  will.  Each  recruit  had  his  name 
enrolled  in  the  Government  books  on  Thursday 
Island  ;  on  the  luggers  the  food  was  good,  and  the 
pay  10s.  a  month  ;  no  Papu  could  be  enlisted  for 
more  than  six  months  at  a  time  ;  and  in  many  cases 
he  returned  to  the  camp  arrayed  in  a  new  suit 
of  clothes.  On  the  moral  side,  however,  conditions 
were  bad.     According  to  the  evidence  of  James  Ward, 


North  Queensland.  427 

who  was  incapable  of  telling  a  falsehood,  most  of  the 
captains  of  the  pearl-luggers  were  men  of  low  moral 
character.     With    a    few    exceptions,    they    openly- 
scoffed  at  rehgion  ;    some  kept  drinking  saloons  and 
gambling  dens  ;    and  some,   on  their  regular  visits 
to  Mapoon,  seduced  the  women  and  encouraged  them 
to    sell    their    bodies    for     tobacco.        The     result 
was  disgraceful.     At  the  time  when  Ward  and  Hey 
arrived,    Mapoon    had    already    become    a    Sodom 
of  iniquity.     Each  time  captains  called  for  recruits, 
scenes  of  debauchery  were  witnessed.     To  Ward  and 
Hey  only  one  course  was  left  open.     For  the  sake  of 
the   people's   morals,    they   endeavoured,    as   far    as 
possible,    to    find    them    better    employment   in  the 
village  ;    some  of  the  captains  regarded  this  as  an 
act  of  open  hostility  ;    and  forthwith  they  resolved 
on   vengeance.     On   the   Jardine   and   Ducie   Rivers 
certain    Papus    had    recently    committed    murder ; 
in  each  case,  said  certain  captains.  Ward  and  Hey 
had   inspired   the   crime  ;     and   those   captains   even 
appeared  at  Thursday  Island  and  gave  official  in- 
formation to  that  effect.     The  story  soon  appeared  in 
some  of  the  papers.     For  some  party  political  reason 
the  Editor  of  the  Torres  Straits  Pilot  was  opposed  to 
the  Hon.  John  Douglas  ;    now  he  openly  criticised 
him  for  supporting  the  Mission  ;     and,   further,   he 
even  made  the  outrageous  assertion  that  Ward  and 
Hey  were  personally  responsible,   not  only  for  the 
recent  murders,  but  for  all  the  murders  committed 
by    Papus   during   the    lat»t   two    years.     For    some 
weeks  Ward  and  Hey  were  in  bad  odour.     Instead 
of  teaching  the  Papus  to  be  law  abiding,  they,  it  was 
said  in  some  papers,  had  incited  them  to  rebellion ; 
and    some    of    the    clergy,    believing    this    absurd 
tale,   denounced   the   innocent   Brethren   from   their 
pulpits.     But    Ward    and    Hey    soon    proved    their 
innocence.     At     Hey's     request,     the     Hon,     John 


428        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Douglas  held  an  official  inquiry  ;  the  captains' 
accusations  were  proved  to  be  false  ;  and  the  Editor 
of  the  Torres  Straits  Pilot  made  atonement  for  his 
transgressions  by  describing  the  Brethren  as  model 
missionaries. 
Jan.  19th,  But  the  Brethren  soon  gained  far  more  than  a 
1894  formal  victory.  At  the  very  time  when  the  general 
public  were  discussing  the  conduct  and  character  of 
the  missionaries,  the  Kanahooka,  a  small  steamer, 
foundered  in  the  Gulf  of  Carpentaria.  Among  the 
survivors  were  two  English  officers,  Priestley  and 
Bradley. I  With  the  aid  of  some  Papus  from  Mapoon, 
Priestley  and  one  of  his  friends  made  their  way  to  the 
Mission  Station.  There  the  missionaries  dressed 
their  wounds  and  gave  them  high  tea  ;  the  station 
boat  Avas  sent  to  fetch  the  other  survivors  ;  and 
Bradley,  filled  with  gratitude,  exclaimed,  "This  is  the 
happiest  day  of  my  life.  Come,  boys,  let  us  have  a 
word  of  prayer."  During  the  next  few  weeks,  Priestley 
and  Bradley,  wherever  they  went,  sang  the  Brethren's 
praises  ;  public  opinion  turned  in  their  favour ; 
and  now,  taking  the  tide  at  the  flood,  James  Ward 
set  off  on  a  tour  to  collect  money  for  a  second  station. 
At  Brisbane  he  interviewed  the  Mission  Committee  ; 
at  Melbourne  he  addressed  the  Ormond  College 
Missionary  Society  ;  and  at  Adelaide  he  addressed 
the  first  meeting  of  the  South  Australian  Women's 
Missionary  Association.  His  mode  of  appealing  for 
money  was  frank  and  abrupt.  "  If  you  love  me," 
he  said,  "  down  with  the  money."  By  this  time  he 
had  become  a  popular  man  ;  everywhere  the  people 
received  him  with  favour  ;  and,  hoping  that  soon  a 
new  station  would  be  built,  he  returned  to  Mapoon. 
For  the  projected  second  station  there  was  now 
more  pressing  need  than  ever.     At  Mapoon  affairs 

fFor   details   of   the   survivors'    adventures,   see    Bishop   Arthur 
Ward's  "  Miracle  of  Mapoon." 


North  Queensland.  429 

had  come  to  a  crisis.  Sea  captains  constantly  came 
to  the  camp ;  Papu  men  sold  their  wives  for 
tobacco  ;  and  both  Ward  and  Hey  perceived  that, 
unless  the  nati^  cs  could  be  removed  from  temptation, 
all  attempts  to  uplift  them  would  be  useless.  In 
spite  of  his  apparent  failure  to  gain  converts, 
James  Ward  was  still  optimistic ;  somehow,  he 
declared,  all  things  would  work  together  for  good  ; 
and  sitting  down  at  his  harmonium,  he  drew  comfort 
from   the   lines  : — 

Oh  !  Rest  in  the  Lord  and  wait.  Brother, 
Though  clouds  obscure  thy  way  ; 

All  things  for  good  are  working  together, 
Oh  !    Rest  and  wait  and  pray. 

4.     The  Valley  of  Death. 
(December  15th,  1894— January  3rd,  1895.) 

As  James  Ward  was  returning  to  Mapoon  from  a 
voyage  up  the  Batavia  River — undertaken  for  the 
purpose  of  finding  a  suitable  site  for  the  new  station — 
he  was  so  overcome  by  fatigue  and  thirst  that, 
forgetting  his  usual  caution,  he  ventured  to  drink 
some  water  from  a  brook ;  nine  days  later,  i.e., 
on  Christmas  Eve,  he  showed  symptoms  of  fever, 
and  on  Christmas  Day  he  was  so  ill  that  Hey 
suggested  that  the  usual  Christmas  festivities  should 
be  postponed.  But  to  this  course  James  Ward 
objected. 

"  I  cannot  bear  to  see  the  children  disappointed," 
he  said,  "  and  it  may  be  a  long  while  before  I  am 
better." 

Once  more,  therefore,  as  in  previous  years,  the 
little  church  was  adorned  with  red  and  blue  lights  ; 
once  more  the  Christmas  Tree  was  loaded  ;  once  more 
the  Papus  received  their  Christmas  presents.  For 
another  week  James  Ward  lay  very  quiet ;   Hey  said 


480        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

that  he  looked  Hke  one  transfigured  ;  and  though 
one  day  he  asked  for  his  cheque-book,  and  said  that 
he  must  pay  all  outstanding  accounts,  yet,  at  other 
times,  he  seemed  to  hope  that  he  had  still  a  great 
work  to  do  on  earth.  At  prayers,  each  evening, 
he  chose  the  hymn  himself.  One  evening,  remember- 
ing the  season,  he  selected  "  Who  is  He  in  yonder 
stall  ?  "  ;  a  little  later  he  asked  for  "  Art  thou 
weary  ?  "  ;  and  then,  still  later,  he  asked  for  "  Peace, 
perfect  peace."  One  day,  so  he  told  the  others,  he 
had  heard  the  angels  in  heaven  sing.  "  Weep  not 
for  me,"  he  said  to  his  wife,  "  it  hurts  me.  If  I  am 
taken,  the  Lord  will  be  your  husband." 

On  New  Year's  Eve  James  Ward  was  in  a  high 
fever  ;  Mrs.  Ward  had  broken  down  and  could  no 
longer  be  with  her  husband  ;  and  Hey,  sitting  by 
his  dying  friend's  bedside,  and  realizing,  to  some 
extent,  how  intensely  he  suffered  in  body  and 
soul,  tried  to  soothe  him  with  words  of  comfort. 
With  a  cry  of  agony,  James  Ward  rose  from  his  bed. 
"  My  God  !  my  God  !  "  he  cried,  "  I'm  in  hell." 
For  several  hours  that  dreadful  night,  James  Ward 
wrestled  with  God  in  prayer  ;  in  the  morning  he 
seemed  calmer,  and  Hey  read  him  a  short  passage 
out  of  the  "Life  of  David  Livingstone";  and  Ward 
himself,  with  due  reverence,  described  his  terrible 
experience  as  his  Gethsemane.  "  And  yet,"  he 
added,  "  it  was  nothing  compared  with  what  Christ 
suffered  for  me." 

The  last  hours  of  James  Ward  were  now  at  hand. 
On  New  Year's  Day  he  lay  unconscious  ;  on  the 
following  evening  he  asked  permission  to  say  good- 
bye to  the  Papus  ;  and,  addressing  the  women,  he 
preached  a  beautiful  sermon  on  the  Good  Shepherd. 
"  Do  you  remember  that  picture  in  the  Church," 
he  said,  "  of  the  Good  Shepherd  carrying  a  lamb  in 
His  arms  ?     That  is  how  I  feel  now.     I  am  tired  and 


I 


North  Queensland.  481 

weak  as  a  child.  I  have  asked  the  Good  Shepherd 
to  take  me,  and  now  He  will  lift  me  in  His  arms  and 
carry  me  home." 

In  spite,  however,  of  his  trust  in  God,  James 
Ward  had  still  a  great  load  on  his  mind.  With  God's 
dealing  with  him  he  was  more  than  satisfied  ;  with 
his  o^Ti  work  for  God  he  was  profoundly  dis- 
satisfied ;  and  now  he  bitterly  reproached  himself 
because  he  had  not  lived  in  the  Papu  camp.  "  I 
ought  not,"  he  said,  "  to  have  lived  in  the 
Mission-house  at  all.  I  ought  to  have  lived 
in  the  camp  among  the  Papus."  For  that 
sin  of  neglect,  he  said,  he  must  now  make  full 
atonement. 

"  Let  me  go,"  he  cried,  "once  more  to  the 
camp." 

With  those  words  James  Ward  rose  from  his  bed  ; 
Hey,  assisted  by  six  Papus,  could  scarcely  hold  him 
down  ;  and  the  struggle  lasted  till  the  morning  Jan. 3rd, 
dawned.  As  soon  as  Ward  was  quiet  again,  Hey  1335 
dismissed  the  Papus  ;  Mrs.  Hey  and  Mrs.  Ward  now 
entered  the  room  ;  and  Ward,  after  greeting  his  wife 
with  a  smile  and  saying  a  bright  "  Good  morning," 
noticed  that  the  Papus  had  disappeared.  To  him 
the  natives  had  always  been  children,  and  children 
they  were  to  the  end. 

"The  piccaninnies  are  gone,"  he  said,  "I  must 
follow." 

Thus,  thinking  of  his  spiritual  children,  James 
Ward   passed   away. 

For  six  months  the  work  at  Mapoon  remained 
at  a  standstill.  Both  Mrs.  Ward  and  the  Heys  were 
now  dangerously  ill ;  all  three  had  to  leave  for  a 
needed  rest ;  and  what  the  future  might  have 
in  store  Hey  was  unable  to  say.  "  But,  one  thing," 
he  bravely  remarked,  "  is  clear  ;  whether  we  live  or 
die  we  are  in  God's  hands." 


432        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

5.     The  Resurrection,  1895 — 1914. 

As  soon  as  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Hey  had  completely 
June,  recovered  their  health,  they  returned  to  Mapoon ;  three 
1895  months  later  Mrs.  Ward  also  arrived ;  and  so  delighted 
were  the  Papus  to  see  her,  that,  donning  their  best 
clothes,  they  waded  out  to  the  ship,  greeted  her  joyfully 
as  "  Mother,"  and  carried  her  ashore  in  a  chair. I 
Let  us  now  make  a  careful  study  of  Hey's  missionary 
methods.  He  was  one  of  the  greatest  missionaries 
of  modern  times.  First  we  note  his  relations  with  the 
Government ;  secondly,  his  social  and  religious  work 
at  Mapoon  ;  and  thirdly,  his  attempt  to  extend  the 
Mission. 

1.  In  order  to  protect  the  natives  from  tempta- 
tion, Hey  now  made  the  bold  and  wise  suggestion  that 
the  district  between  Mapoon  and  Duyfhen  Point 
should  be  marked  off  as  a  Native  Reserve.  To  this 
suggestion  the  Government  agreed  ;  Hey  himself 
had  certain  official  powers  ;  and  two  years  later, 
aided  by  Sir  Horace  Tozer,  the  Premier,  he  succeeded 
in  having  a  law  passed  whereby  the  enlistment  of 
natives  on  the  pearl-luggers  was  prohibited.  By 
means  of  these  two  strokes  Hey  became  master  of  the 
situation.  No  one  but  missionaries  and  Papus  might 
now  live  on  the  Reserve  ;  and  no  sea-captains  could 
any  longer  corrupt  the  morals  of  the  natives.  At  the 
same  time  the  Government  also  took  measures  to 
make  sure  that  Hey  did  his  work  properly.  For  this 
purpose  Dr.  Roth,  the  new  "  Protector  of  the 
Aborigines"  for  North  Queensland,  visited  the  station 
once  a  year ;  and,  speaking  in  the  name  of  the 
Government,  he  promised  that  he  would  befriend  the 
Mission  on  condition  that  each  year  he  saw  some 
improvement  in  the  premises.     The  new  arrangement 

■fMrs.   Hey  and  Mrs.   Ward  are  Histors ;    daughters  of  an  Irish 
farmer  at  Derryamish,  in  Co.  Antrim. 


I 


North  Queensland.  488 

became  a  brilliant  success.  From  the  very 
outset,  Hey  had  the  Bible  taught  in  the  day-school ; 
year  after  year  Dr.  Roth  could  send  in  a  good  report ; 
and  Hey  now  felt  that,  in  all  his  labours,  he  had  the 
full  support  of  the  Government. 

(2)  As  soon  as  he  had  sufficient  money  in  hand, 
Hey,  assisted  by  the  Papus,  built  a  beautiful  "  Ward  ISSB"? 
Memorial  Church";  that  Church  became  the  centre, 
not  only  of  the  religious,  but  also  of  the  social,  life 
of  the  village  ;  and  Hey,  acting  both  as  magistrate 
and  preacher,  issued  a  number  of  rules  and  regula- 
tions. For  some  offences  the  people  had  to  pay  a 
small  fine  ;  for  others  he  made  them  chop  wood  ; 
and  for  serious  crimes,  such  as  theft  on  the  luggers, 
they  had  to  report  themselves  at  Thursday  Island,  t 
His  mode  of  attacking  bad  customs  showed  great 
common  sense.  "  It  is  useless,"  he  said,  "  abolishing 
a  bad  custom,  unless  you  put  a  good  one  in  its  place." 
In  order,  for  example,  to  abolish  the  custom  of 
leaving  dead  bodies  out  to  dry,  Hey  conducted  a 
funeral  service  himself ;  little  girls,  carrv-ing  flags, 
took  part  in  the  procession  ;  and  all  the  rest  were  so 
anxious  to  share  the  honour  that  henceforward  they 
buried  their  dead  in  a  more  sanitary  manner.  By  a 
stroke  of  genius  he  also  abolished  polygamy.  One 
Sunday,  Jimmy,  a  married  convert,  announced  that 
he  would  take  a  second  wife.  At  the  Sunday  morning 
service,  Jimmy  himself  was  present  ;  Hey,  instead 
of  preaching  a  sermon,  informed  the  people  of  the 
scandal,  and  asked  them  to  pray  the  devil  out  of 
Mapoon  ;  and  so  earnest  were  the  prayers  that  Jimmy 
remained  a  faithful  husband. 

Again,  Hey  v.as  a  great  organizer  of  labour.  In 
spite  of  the  people's  communistic  theories,  he  soon 
taught  them  the  value  of  private  property  ;    and  yet 

fThe  enlistment  of  natives  on  the  luggera  wa«  not  abolished  till 

1910. 

2F 


434         A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

he  did  not  make  the  mistake  of  condemning  their 
ideas  altogether.  His  system  may  be  described  as 
a  compromise.  He  began  with  the  pearl  industry. 
Each  native  employed  on  a  lugger  received,  as  before, 
a  fixed  sum  per  month.  But  now  Hey  introduced 
a  remarkable  change.  Formerly,  the  native  received 
his  whole  wage  direct ;  now  one  half  was  paid  to 
the  station,  and  was  spent  in  providing  goods  for  a 
General  Store  ;  and  the  native,  having  helped  to 
provide  that  store,  was  entitled  to  the  free  use  of  the 
goods.  By  means  of  this  system,  therefore,  he  was 
partly  a  communist  and  partly  an  owner  of  private 
property.  The  same  principle  was  applied  to  the 
village  industries.  Each  native  helped  to  build  the 
houses  ;  each  native  helped  to  sweep  the  roads  ; 
and  each  native,  therefore,  had  the  free  use  of  certain 
articles  belonging  to  the  village  as  such.  With  the 
station  circular  saw  he  sawed  his  wood  ;  from  the 
station  carpenter's  shop  he  borrowed  his  tools  ;  in 
the  station  windmill  he  ground  his  corn  ;  and  from 
the  station  grocery  store  he  obtained  good  food. 
And  yet  he  was  not  a  communist  pure  and  simple. 
Each  native  had  his  own  house  and  garden  ;  each 
native,  also,  had  his  own  furniture  ;  and  that  house, 
garden,  and  furniture  he  had  to  keep  in  good  order. 
The  whole  system  taught  the  Papu  two  cardinal 
virtues.  On  the  one  hand  he  learned  the  value  of 
co-operation  for  the  common  good  ;  on  the  other 
hand  he  had  a  sense  of  personal  responsibility ; 
and  thus  he  became  an  admirable  Christian  citizen. 
Again,  in  governmental  matters.  Hey  adopted  a 
compromise.  His  system  may  be  called  a  limited 
monarchy.  For  ten  years,  1895-1905,  there  was  an 
understanding  at  Mapoon  that  while  Hey  himself 
was  obeyed  without  question,  the  adults  belonged 
to  a  village  council,  which,  though  it  could  not 
make     laws,     could     at     least     make     suggestions 


North  Queensland.  485 

and  discuss  any  questions  of  public  interest ; 
and  then,  at  the  close  of  this  period,  Hey,  at 
the  people's  request,  allowed  them  to  choose 
their  own  leader.  But  even  then  he  insisted  on 
stem  conditions.  At  a  public  meeting  held  to  discuss 
the  people's  suggestion,  Hey  laid  down  the  law  that 
no  one  was  fit  to  rule  at  Mapoon  unless  he  possessed 
the  moral  qualities  required  by  St.  Paul  in  a  Bishop. 
The  Papus  agreed  ;  the  man  described  in  I.  Timothy 
III.,  2,  3,  was  discovered ;  and  henceforward  the 
Papus  possessed  their  own  elected  ruler. 

But  the  best  part  of  the  story  still  remains.  Accord- 
ing to  Nicholas  Hey  himself  the  real  "  kernel  of 
Mapoon  "  was  the  day-school ;  that  school,  for  many 
years,  was  under  the  efficient  management  of  Mrs. 
Ward  ;  and  all  Hey's  most  promising  converts  passed 
through  ^Irs.  Ward's  hands.  In  order  to  have  the 
children  under  perfect  control,  Mrs.  Ward  housed  them 
in  three  small  boarding-houses ;  she  herself  gave 
Bible-lessons  and  taught  the  usual  elementary  sub- 
jects ;  and  finally,  at  the  request  of  the  Government, 
she  took  charge  of  a  number  of  orphans. 

3.  In  due  time  Hey  saw  the  Mission  extend. 
Two  more  Moravian  missionaries.  Brown  and  Richtcr, 
arrived ;  two  new  stations,  Weipa  (1898)  on  the 
Embley  River,  and  Aurukun  (1904),  on  the  Archer 
River,  were  founded  ;  and  the  Native  Reserve  was 
now  becoming  a  civihsed  Christian  country.  Near 
Mapoon  the  men  w^ere  small-holders  and  some  held 
office  in  the  Church  ;  at  Aurukun  there  was  a  Boys' 
Brigade  ;  the  children  astounded  the  inspectors  by 
their  progress  ;  and  so  famous  did  the  Mission  become 
that,  year  by  year,  important  officials — Governors, 
Bishops,  Lords  and  Presbyterian  Divines — came  to 
behold  the  miracle.  Among  these  visitors  the  most 
distinguished  were  Lord  Lamington,  Sir  Wm. 
McGregor,  the  Governor,  Canon  Garland,  the  Chief 


436        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Protector,  Appel,  the  Home  Secretary,  Parry  Okedcn, 
the  Government  photographer,  and  the  Editor  of 
the  Torres  Straits  Pilot;  and  once,  in  1911,  there 
was  even  a  lady  reporter  from  the  Daily  MaiL 

For  three  reasons  the  work  in  North  Queensland 
possesses  special  interest : — Because,  as  was  men- 
tioned in  the  report  of  the  Edinburgh  World 
Missionary  Conference,  it  is  a  most  encouraging 
example  of  co-operation  between  two  churches ; 
because  it  shows  that,  when  the  right  methods  are 
used,  the  lowest  races  are  not  beyond  redemption  ; 
and  because  it  shows  that,  in  the  Moravian  Church, 
the  old  missionary  spirit  is  still  alive.  At  Mapoon 
itself  the  visitor  may  still  behold  memorials  of  James 
Ward.  He  will  worship  in  a  new  and  larger  "  Ward 
Memorial  Church " ;  he  will  see  Ward's  grave, 
marked  by  a  cross  ;  he  will  sail  in  the  J.  G.  Ward 
along  the  coast ;  and  children,  taught  by  Mrs.  Ward, 
will  sing  him  a  hymn  of  welcomcf 

t  For  the  changes  made  since  this  chapter  was  ■written,  see  Epilogue. 


Chapter  IX. 

EAST  CENTRAL   AFRICA:   NYASSA, 

1891—1914. 

1.     Mack  ay's  Request. 

Among  the  great  missionary  leaders  of  the  nine- 
teenth century,  no  one  admired  Moravian  Missions 
more  than  Mackay  of  Uganda  ;  in  1888  he  requested 
the  Moravian  Church  to  undertake  a  Mission  in  what 
was  then  known  as  German  East  Africa  ;  and  soon 
after  this  request  was  received,  the  Moravian  Mission 
Board  also  heard,  to  its  surprise  and  delight,  that 
Daniel  Krakau,  a  pious  bachelor,  had  left  the 
Moravian  Church  no  less  than  £40,000.  This 
legacy  has  since  been  known  as  the  Krakau  Trust  ; 
and  the  money  was  to  be  devoted  to  two  distinct 
purposes.  One  half  of  the  annual  interest  was  for 
redeeming  slaves  ;  the  other  was  for  Moravian 
missionary  work  in  general  ;  and  next  year,  1889,  at 
a  General  Synod,  the  Moravian  Church  decided  to 
apply  the  second  half  of  the  legacy  to  entirely  new 
work  in  German  East  Africa.! 

Let  us  first  try  to  form  a  clear  idea  of  the  precise 
field  of  labour  selected.  At  the  time  when  Mackay's 
request  was  received  that  part  of  East  Central  Africa 
now  known  as  Tanganyika  Territory,  was  already 
German  Territory ;  one  part  of  the  colony,  i.e., 
the  part  lying  just  north  of  Lake  Nyassa,  was  called 


tWe  must  here  guard  against  a  natural  mistake.  In  his  "  Twenty 
Years  of  Pioneer  Missions  in  Nyassaland,"  Bishop  J.  T. 
Hamilton  says  that  the  second  half  of  the  Krakau  Trust  wa« 
left  "for  founding  and  carrying  on  a  Mission  in  German  East 
Africa."  But  this  ia  not  correct.  In  the  will  no  special  field 
i*  mentioned. 

(43r) 


488        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

"  German  Nyassaland  ";f  and  this  was  the  part  now 
selected  for  the  new  Mission.  But  the  sphere  of  the 
mission  had  to  be  even  more  precisely  defined.  At 
this  time  the  Berlin  Missionary  Society  was  already 
at  work  in  German  East  Africa  ;  with  that  Society 
the  Moravian  Church  did  not  desire  to  compete ; 
and,  therefore,  to  prevent  friction  or  over-lapping, 
the  following  terms  were  arranged  : — 

1.  The  two  Societies,  working  side  by  side,  will 

found  stations  north  of  Lake  Nyassa. 

2.  For  the  present  the  boundary-line  between  the 

two  shall  be,  roughly  speaking,  longitude  34. 
To  the  East  shall  be  the  Berlin  Society,  to 
the  West  the  Moravians. 

3.  The  two   Societies,   though   independent,   will 

try  to  help  each  other.* 

In  1891  the  campaign  began.  For  twenty-three 
years  the  chief  leader  and  superintendent  of  the 
work  in  German  Nyassaland  was  Theodore  Meyer, 
son  of  Henry  Meyer,  the  pioneer  in  Hlubiland ; 
one  of  his  colleagues  was  a  Swiss,  Theophilus  Richard  ; 
and  these  two,  pushing  north  from  Lake  Nyassa, 
discovered,  at  the  foot  of  Mt.  Rungwe,  a  spur  of  the 
Livingstone  Hills,  a  splendid  site  for  the  first  station. 
The  date  was  August  21st.  The  two  men  had  never 
beheld  a  more  gorgeous  scene.  On  the  north-west 
rose  Mt.  Rungwe ;  on  the  west  lay  a  dense  forest ;  on 
the  south-east  lay  the  teeming  dales  of  Kondeland ; 
and  gazing  southwards  towards  Lake  Nyassa,  across  flat 


fTo  distinguish  it  from  "  Nyassaland  "  proper,  a  British  Protectorate 
just  west  of  Lake  Nyassa,  Sir  Harry  H.  Johnston  called  the 
district  north  of  the  lake  "  German  Nyassaland."  See  his 
"  Colonisation  of  Africa,"  p.  249. 

*In  1911  a  similar  friendly  arrangement  was  made  between  the 
Moravian  Church  and  the  Roman  Catholic  Mission  conducted 
by  the  White  Fathers.  By  this  arrangement  the  Moravian 
Church  agreed  not  to  penetrate  into  certain  districts  lying 
further  north-west  and  south  of  Lake  Rungwe. 


East  Central  Africa  :    Nyassa.  439 

lowland  country,  the  two  men  could  hear  the  tinkle 
of  cattle  bells  and  see  the  smoke  rising  from  hundreds 
of  native  huts.  For  reasons  of  health,  Rungwe 
seemed  an  ideal  site  for  a  Mission-station.  The  land 
was  high,  the  water  pure,  and  the  air  clear  and 
bracing.  At  the  very  outset,  however,  a  distressing 
disaster  occurred.  One  of  Meyer's  colleagues,  George 
Martin,  who  had  stayed  near  the  lake,  died  of  fever  ; 
there,  by  the  shores  of  the  great  lake,  his  broken- 
hearted comrades  laid  him  to  rest ;  and  then,  aided 
by  willing  natives,  they  built  the  first  houses  at 
Rungwe. 

They  had  come  to  an  interesting  people.  Accord- 
ing to  the  most  recent  authorities,  all  the  natives 
of  Nyassa  were  Bantus  ;  by  descent,  therefore,  they 
might  be  called  one  nation,  and  yet,  like  the  Red 
Indians  of  North  America,  they  were  divided  into 
several  independent  tribes.  Each  tribe  was  ruled  by 
its  own  chief ;  each  chief  claimed  a  certain  district 
as  his  own  ;  and  in  each  district  certain  distinguishing 
peculiarities,  either  in  character,  or  in  customs,  or  in 
language,  were  discovered.  For  the  purpose  of  this 
narrative  the  five  following  districts  must  be  noticed  : 

(1)  Kondeland,  between  Mt.  Rungwe  and  Lake 

Nyassa;  a  flat  and  fruitful  country,  teeming 
with  cattle. 

(2)  Bundali,  south-west  of  Mt.  Rungwe,  and  due 

west  of  Kondeland.  Here  the  land  lies 
high,  and  the  people  are  distinguished  for 
their    industry. 

(3)  Nyika,  due  west  of  Mt.  Rungwe,  and  north- 

west of  Bundali.  In  this  region  polygamy 
was  a  specially  strong  force. 

(4)  Usafwa,   north-west   of  Mt.  Rungwe  ;     noted 

for  its  fierce  chief,  Merere,  who,  along  with 
his  bloodthirsty  people,  was  speedily  dis- 
possessed by  the  Government. 


440        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

(5)     Mawanda,    still    further    north,    and    north- 
west of  Mt.  Rungwe. 

In  each  of  these  five  districts  the  missionaries  built 
stations,  employed  native  evangelists,  and  opened 
day-schools  ;  and  the  area  covered  by  their  labours 
was  about  seven  hundred  square  miles. 

In  spite,  however,  of  this  division  into  tribes,  all 
the  inhabitants  of  Nyassa  possessed  certain  character- 
istics in  common. 

(a)  Appearance.  According  to  Henry  Drummond, 
who  describes  the  people  in  his  "  Tropical  Africa," 
they  were  the  same  colour  as  a  good  cigar  ;  even  the 
old  men  were  said  to  be  handsome  ;  and  the  first 
Moravian  missionaries  observed  that,  though  the 
people  knew  not  the  use  of  soap  and  water,  they 
kept  their  bodies  remarkably  clean  by  means  of 
butter  or  oil.  They  tilled  the  soil  and  bred  cattle  ; 
lived  on  bananas  and  milk ;  smoked  the  pipe  of 
peace  in  the  evening  cool ;  and  greeted  each  other 
in  the  morning  with  the  words  :  "I  hope  you  slept 
well  last  night." 

(h)  Politics.  At  the  head  of  each  tribe  was  a 
powerful  chief ;  at  the  head  of  each  village  was  a 
captain  ;  and  the  captains  acted  as  Privy  Council, 
with  power  to  elect  and  depose  the  chief.  Each 
captain  also  acted  as  a  local  magistrate,  and  offenders 
against  the  laws  were  tried  by  him.  In  cases  when 
the  evidence  was  doubtful,  trial  by  ordeal  was 
common.  For  this  purpose  a  cup  of  Muafi  was  used. 
Taken  neat,  Muafi  is  a  deadly  poison  ;  mixed  with 
water,  it  is  an  emetic.  The  litigants  faced  each  other  ; 
each,  at  a  given  signal,  began  to  drink  ;  and  the 
one  who  vomited  first  had  won  the  case. 

(c)  Marriage  Customs.  Among  these  people 
women  had  a  high  market  value  ;  most  of  them 
rendered  good  service  by  working  hard  in  the  fields  ; 


O   o  d 


o    r^  ■-  J 
C9     ^  <a  o 


3  . 


Oft 


■^"k 

^s?""' 


4. 

■t. 


=    5 


V 


iSf 


^V 


"00 

c 


* 


*     J  := 


TO 


Q 

Z 
< 
_J 
< 

CO 
< 

>- 

z 


z 

< 

u 

0) 

r 

u 

h- 

Q 

cc 

O 

o 

X 

V 

cr 

East  Central  Africa  :    Nyassa.  441 

and  the  usual  business  arrangement  was  that,  after 
a  young  man  had  made  his  ehoice,  he  bought  his 
bride  from  the  girl's  father.  Among  the  poor  the 
usual  price  was  a  cow ;  in  higher  circles  it  was  so  many 
cows  and  goats  ;  and  thus  the  more  cows  a  man 
possessed  the  more  wives  he  could  buy.  The  farmer, 
therefore,  was  a  dealer  in  women  and  cows.  In 
order  to  obtain  more  cows,  he  sold  his  daughters  ; 
with  his  new  stock  of  cows  he  bought  more  wives  ; 
and  with  his  next  batch  of  daughters  he  bought 
more  cows.  In  these  arrangements  the  chief  flaw 
was  that  the  daughter  was  often  married  when  only 
a  child.  The  custom  led  to  much  trouble.  The 
wife  found  that  she  did  not  love  her  husband  and 
left  him  ;  the  deserted  husband  demanded  his  cattle 
back ;  and  the  quarrel  between  the  two  families 
sometimes  lasted  for  generations.  And  yet  the 
average  husband  was  no  mere  brute.  For  his  first 
wife  he  had  deep  respect,  and  called  her  the  "  Great 
Woman";  all  his  wives  and  daughters  were  kindly 
treated ;  and  delicate  children  received  special 
attention.  "  It  is  God  who  sent  the  child,"  the 
parents  would  say.  And  thus,  despite  the  marriage- 
market,  there  was  a  certain  amount  of  domestic 
happiness. 

(d)  National  Character.  Let  us  not  regard  these 
people  as  brutal  savages.  With  all  their  faults, 
they  did  possess  the  milk  of  human  kindness  ;  and 
the  first  missionaries  were  much  impressed  by  the 
fact.  "  It  is  beautiful,"  they  said,  "  to  note  their 
generosity  and  hospitality.  If  a  man  has  anything 
to  eat  in  his  house,  he  will  never  refuse  a  beggar  ; 
if  you  give  a  boy  a  banana  he  shares  it  with  others  ; 
and  if  you  pay  a  workman  in  salt,  he  gives  so  many 
pinches  away  that  often  he  has  little  left  for  himself." 

(e)  Religion.     For  practical  purposes  the  people's 


442        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

religion  may  be  called  a  mixture  of  religion  and 
superstition.  On  the  one  hand  they  believed  in 
a  Supreme  Creator,  called  in  some  districts  Intambe, 
and  in  others  Kiara ;  on  the  other  hand  they  also 
believed  in  Mbosi,  the  devil ;  and  the  chief  point 
to  notice  is  that,  while  they  had  little  to  do  with 
God,  they  were  in  constant  touch  with  the  devil. 
In  theory,  their  conception  of  God  was  sublime. 
Above  all  the  forces  of  nature,  they  said,  there 
reigned  an  Invisible  Spirit,  who  could  not  be  repre- 
sented by  images  ;  this  great  Spirit  was  perfectly 
good,  caused  the  grass  to  grow  and  the  fruit  to  ripen, 
and  had  shown  His  special  favour  to  whites,  not 
only  by  giving  them  clothes,  but  by  endowing  them 
with  superior  wisdom ;  and  sometimes,  in  the 
droughty  season,  or  when  there  was  an  epidemic, 
the  chief  led  his  people  to  a  glade  and  begged  the 
Creator  to  send  a  good  harvest  or  stay  the  cruel  plague. 
In  spite,  however,  of  this  belief,  the  real  religion  of 
the  people  was  a  religion  of  terror.  God,  they  said, 
though  kind  and  powerful,  did  not  really  act  much 
in  this  world  ;  Mbosi  was  both  malicious  and  busy  ; 
and,  hating  all  mankind  with  a  deadly  hatred,  he 
stole  their  property,  sent  diseases,  blasted  their 
crops,  and  endowed  his  servants  with  satanic  powers. 
Mbosi  ruled  over  thousands  of  spirits  ;  these  spirits 
or  devils  dwelt  in  men  ;  and  such  men,  by  infernal 
means,  could  kill  their  neighbours.  The  usual  result 
followed.  With  such  devil-possessed  men  only  the 
sorcerers  could  deal.  At  death  the  sorcerers  gener- 
ally dissected  the  body ;  thereby,  they  claimed,  they 
could  discover  the  murderer  ;  and  that  murderer, 
they  said,  must  now  be  put  to  death  by  the  relatives. 
Amid  these  constant  terrors,  however,  there  was 
one  consolation.  For  all  men,  good  and  bad,  said 
the  people,  there  was  a  life  after  death  ;  in  the  better 
land     goodness     would    ultimately    triumph ;      and 


East  Central  Africa  :    Nyassa.  443 

while  the  wicked  would  have  to  serve  the  devil, 
the  righteous,  seated  on  chairs,  would  drink  beer  in 
abundance,  bask  in  the  heat  of  the  day,  and  talk  at 
night  with  God  Himself. 

2.     The  Mother  Church  at  Rungwe. 

As  Rungwe  not  only  possessed  a  beautiful  climate, 
but  also  occupied  a  good  central  position,  the  Brethren 
decided  to  make  it  their  headquarters.  There, 
assisted  by  the  natives,  they  built  a  village  ;  there 
they  often  met  each  other  in  conference  ;  and  there 
they  obtained  their  first  knowledge  of  the  strange 
manners  of  the  natives. 

(a)  The  Wonderful  Welcome.  The  first  experience  1891-2 
was  encouraging.  Instead  of  regarding  the  Brethren 
as  intruders,  the  natives,  at  the  very  outset,  welcomed 
them  as  messengers  of  God  ;  some  of  the  people 
credited  them  with  miraculous  powers,  and  said  that 
their  trousers  had  been  sent  do-WTi  from  heaven ; 
and  the  Brethren,  in  a  few  months,  discovered  the 
reason.  For  over  thirty  years,  said  the  people,  men 
like  the  missionaries  had  been  expected  ;  God  Him- 
self had  predicted  that  preachers  would  come  ;  and 
that  prediction  had  taken  the  form  of  a  strange  light 
in  the  sky.  For  two  months,  said  the  people,  the 
sky  had  been  a  vast  sea  of  fire  ;  on  the  shores  they 
could  see  their  ancesters  walking  in  glory ;  and 
Murkkikandi,  a  holy  prophet,  had  expounded  the 
heavenly  vision.  "  My  children,"  he  said,  "  that  is 
a  sign  from  God.  Some  day,  when  I  am  gone, 
good  men  will  come  here  and  tell  you  of  the  heavenly 
land.  Among  us  things  are  not  right.  Our  chiefs 
deceive  us  ;  our  villages  are  wicked  ;  and  these  men, 
whom  none  of  us  have  seen,  will  tell  us  of  the  Lord 
in  heaven."  At  a  later  period  a  priest  added  further 
details.  In  reality,  he  declared,  the  preachers  would 
be  men  raised  from  the  dead  ;    and  yet  they  would 


414        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions, 

appear  in  the  form  of  white  men  from  the  south. 
"  They  will  cross  Lake  Nyassa  in  wooden  boats," 
he  said  ;  "  they  will  have  white  hands  and  feet ; 
they  will  be  dressed  in  white  ;  and  they  will  also 
bring  you  presents  of  cotton,  brass,  and  wine."  Let 
us  not  dismiss  this  story  as  a  mere  legend.  It  shows 
that  in  the  minds  of  some  there  was  a  desire 
for  a  higher  life.  At  the  very  first  public  service — 
held  at  Christmas,  1892 — the  missionaries  made  a 
profound  impression.  First  they  told  the  story 
of  Christmas  and  sang  a  few  Christmas  carols ; 
then  Meyer  gave  each  person  a  portion  of  salt ;  and 
the  happy  people  exclaimed  :  "  Ah  !  the  white  man 
is  not  like  Merere." 

(b)  The  Story  of  Merere.^  The  next  episode 
enhanced  the  Brethren's  reputation.  At  the  time 
when  they  arrived  in  Nyassa  there  lived  at  Utengule, 
in  Usafwa,  a  few  miles  north-west  of  Rungwe,  a 
wicked  and  powerful  chief  named  Merere ;  this 
man,  said  the  natives,  had  10,000  breech-loaders, 
and  claiming  to  rule  over  Kondeland,  he  raided  the 
country,  burnt  the  villages,  stole  property,  and 
kidnapping  young  women  and  girls,  sold  them  as 
1895  slaves  to  the  Arabs.  For  the  sake  of  their  flock, 
therefore,  Meyer  and  Richard,  guided  by  a  native, 
went  to  Utengule,  and  there  they  saw  the  blood- 
thirsty chief,  sitting  on  another  man's  legs,  sur- 
rounded by  his  councillors,  and  wearing  a  bright 
shawl  over  his  shoulders  and  many  pearls  on  his 
arms.  For  two  hours  Merere  stormed  and  blustered, 
contending  that  he  had  a  right  to  Kondeland  ; 
then  Meyer  politely  suggested  that  if  he  caused  any 
further  trouble  he  might  receive  some  unpleasant 
treatment  from  the  Government  ;  and  Merere,  seeing 
that   he   had   met   his   match,    promised   to   invade 

tAccent  on  first  syllable. 


East  Central  Africa  :    Nyassa.  445 

Kondeland  no  more.  The  final  result  of  these  negotia- 
tions was  curious.  With  the  fear  of  stern  treatment 
before  his  eyes,  Merere  faithfully  kept  his  promise  ; 
his  son  and  successor,  however,  Merere  the  Younger, 
repeated  some  of  his  father's  offences,  and  forbade 
the  Brethren  to  preach  in  his  territory  ;  and  the 
Government,  finding  him  intractable,  expelled  both 
him  and  some  of  his  subjects,  and  handed  over  the 
district  to  gentler  folk.  Thus  did  the  Brethren 
deliver  Kondeland  from  a  reign  of  terror. 

(c)  The  School  for  Slaves.  The  next  experience  1894-5 
was  both  useful  and  disappointing.  At  the  special 
request  of  a  Government  official,  the  Brethren  took 
charge  of  a  number  of  nati^•cs,  rescued  by  that  official 
from  an  Arab  sla\'e  dealer.  The  group  consisted 
chiefly  of  women  and  children.  For  the  one  man  in 
the  company  the  Brethren  foimd  employment  as  a 
gardener  ;  for  the  women,  who  were  mostly  widows, 
both  husbands  and  houses  ;  for  the  children,  who 
were  mostly  orphans,  suitable  guardians  ;  and  then, 
to  prevent  any  possible  misunderstanding,  Meyer 
;  read  out  the  rules  of  the  village.  No  one  must  ever 
use  any  indecent  language  ;  no  one  must  steal,  or 
lie,  or  work  on  Sunday ;  and  all  nmst  attend 
morning  and  evening  prayers.  The  result  was 
amazing.  For  a  year  the  scheme  worked  well,  and 
Rungwe  became  a  model  farm  colony.  The  women 
helped  in  building  operations  ;  the  boys  dug  in  the 
gardens,  attended  the  day-school,  confessed  their  sins 
to  each  other,  and,  saying  their  prayers  every  night, 
asked  the  Lord  to  make  them  pure  and  holy  ;  and 
the  girls,  gathering  loyally  round  Mrs.  Meyer,  learned 
from  lier  how  to  sew,  gathered  posies  for  her  on  the 
hillside,  called  her  affectionately  **  Donna,"  came 
each  evening  to  say  "  Good-night,"  and  listened 
demurely   and   devoutly   to   the   Brethren's   musical 

t clock.     And  then  came  the  heart-breaking  revelation. 


446        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

In  appearance,  these  liberated  slaves  were  saints  ; 
in  reality,  most  of  them  were  hypocrites.  First  the 
gardener  ran  away,  taking  not  only  his  own  wife, 
but  two  other  women  with  him  ;  then  the  Brethren 
discovered  that  the  boys  were  addicted  to  secret 
October,  vices  ;  and,  soon  after  this  discovery,  nearly  all  the 
1895  women  and  children  decamped.  The  incident  taught 
the  Brethren  a  valuable  lesson.  They  saw  how 
cunning  the  heathen  can  sometimes  be,  how  easily 
whites  may  be  deceived,  and  how  deeply  national 
vices  are  seated. 

(d)  The  First  Convert.  But  the  next  experience, 
while  equally  useful,  filled  them  with  fresh  hope. 
Among  the  inhabitants  at  Rungwe  was  a  lame  woman, 
named  Fiabarema  ;  this  woman  often  declared  that, 
if  she  were  taken  ill,  she  would  not  employ  witch- 
craft, but  trust  entirely  to  Christ  to  heal  her ; 
1897  and  one  Sunday  (February  5th),  after  the  sermon, 
she  walked  up  to  the  desk  and  made  a  speech. 

"  I  rise  to  say,"  she  said,  "  that  I  am  God's  property. 
I  belong  to  Jesus  ;  God  is  my  Father  ;  and  now  I 
have  done  for  ever  with  pride,  lies,  theft,  and  medicine 
swallowing." 

For  a  native  this  was  a  very  bold  speech  ;  her 
example  was  soon  followed  by  others,  and  all  these 
early  converts  took  the  same  moral  stand.  Each 
saw,  fully  and  clearly,  that  certain  national  customs 
were  wicked ;  each  promised  to  abandon  those 
customs  and  take  Christ  as  his  teacher  and  model ; 
and  each,  in  any  case  of  doubt,  asked  the  missionary 
for  advice.  "  You  tell  us  what  to  do,"  they  would 
say,  "  and  we  will  do  it.  If  we  do  wrong  you  must 
punish  us." 

1903  (e)     The  Trainhig  Colleges.     The  next  experience 

was  the  most  encouraging  of  all.     In  the  lives  of  the 
first  converts  at  Rungwe  one  of  the  most  hopeful 


East  Central  Africa  :    Nyassa.  447 

features  was  the  changed  attitude  towards  education. 
At  first  the  people  had  despised  education,  and  refused 
to  send  their  children  to  school  unless  they  were 
paid  for  so  doing  ;  now  there  was  a  deep  desire  for 
instruction;  and  the  converts  were  constantly 
asking  the  missionaries  questions.  One  asked  why 
God  did  not  kill  the  devil ;  another  wondered  whether 
his  illness  was  due  to  some  secret  sin  ;  and  many, 
being  interested  in  the  Second  Coming,  desired  to 
know  what,  when  Jesus  came,  would  happen  to  those 
still  on  earth.  But  the  topic  that  interested  them 
most  was  ethics.  As  soon  as  these  people  became 
Christians,  they  developed  a  hunger  for  education  ; 
and  education  was  valued  by  them,  not  because  it 
gratified  their  curiosity,  but  because  it  enabled  them 
to  live  good  lives  in  the  sight  of  God.  "  Let  us  learn 
to  read,"  they  said,  "  and  then  we  shall  all  discover 
how  to  become  like  Jesus."  For  all  classes  of  the  com- 
munity, therefore — candidates  for  baptism,  candi- 
dates for  communion,  and  communicant  members — 
regular  courses  of  instruction  were  now  arranged  ; 
and  all  communicants  now  sent  their  children  to  the 
day-school.  The  result  was  even  better  than  the 
missionaries  expected.  In  1903  they  opened  a 
Training  College  for  Evangelists,  in  1910  they  opened 
a  Normal  School  for  Teachers  ;  and  thus  Rungwe 
became  the  centre  of  widespread  evangelistic  and 
educational  activity. 

3.     The  Spreading  Cause. 

For  twenty  years  the  Brethren  were  engaged, 
not  merely  in  building  a  model  Christian  village  at 
Rungwe,  but  in  attempting  to  christianize  the  whole 
surrounding  neighbourhood ;  in  this  work  they 
employed  twenty  missionaries,  fifty-tliree  native 
helpers,  thirty-seven  native  evangelists,  and  twenty- 
seven  volunteer  assistants  ;    and  in  each  of  the  five 


448        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

districts  mentioned  strong  stations,  surrounded  by 
many  preaching  places,  were  founded. 

In  Kondeland,  besides  Rungwe,  they  founded 
Rutenganiot  (1894),  Ipiana  (1894),  Mueia  (1907), 
and  Kyimbila  (1912)  ;  in  Bundah,  Isoko  (1900) ; 
in  Nyika,  Mbozi  (1900) ;  in  Usafwa,  Utengulet 
(1895)  ;  and  in  Mawanda,  Ileya  (1906).  In  addition, 
however,  to  these  head  stations,  the  Brethren  had 
also  thirty-five  out-stations  and  one  thousand  and 
eighty-one  preaching  places.  The  number  of  con- 
verts rose  to  1,955 ;  the  number  of  schools  was  144 ; 
and  the  number  of  scholars  attending  them,  4,949. 
But  mere  numbers  give  a  poor  idea  of  the  real  value 
of  the  work.  Let  us  note  some  points  of  deeper 
human  interest. 

(a)  Trade  and  Industry.  At  nearly  all  the  head 
stations  the  missionaries  made  a  systematic 
endeavour  to  teach  the  men  to  be  good  citizens  ; 
and,  in  some  cases,  they  introduced  entirely  new 
forms  of  industry.  At  Rungwe  there  was  a  car- 
penters' shop  and  wood-working  establishment ; 
there  sixteen  large  saws  could  be  seen  working  at 
once  ;  and  the  natives  learned  to  manufacture  beams, 
joists,  boards,  doors,  cupboards  and  chairs,  and 
other  articles  of  domestic  furniture.  At  Utengule 
there  was  a  large  boot  factory.  At  Kyimbila  there 
was  a  rubber  plantation.  Some  of  the  missionaries 
introduced  Muscat  donkeys,  said  to  be  able,  unlike 
horses,  to  resist  the  attacks  of  the  tsetse  fly ;  others 
planted  rice  in  the  lowlands  and  potatoes  in  the  hilly 
districts  ;  others  introduced  sheep  and  a  new  and 
hardier  breed  of  cattle  ;  others  cultivated  coffee  and 
tea ;  and  others,  with  varying  success,  introduced 
strawberries,  gooseberries,  plums,  peaches,  apricots, 
oranges,  lemons,  grapes,  and  other  fruits  previously 

fAccent  on  second  syllable. 


East  Central  Africa  :    Nyassa.  440 

unknown  to  the  natives.  On  the  natives  all  this 
had  a  great  effect.  Formerly  they  had  lived  from 
hand  to  mouth ;  now  they  were  learning  to 
be  thrifty.  Formerly  the  men  had  left  most 
of  the  work  to  the  women  ;  now  they  discovered 
that  hard  work  makes  a  man  happy.  Formerly 
the  natives  had  few  implements ;  now  they 
became  experts  in  the  use  of  hoes,  knives,  and 
axes.  At  the  head  stations  the  Church  as  such 
generally  owned  a  large  tract  of  land  ;  this  land 
was  let  in  allotments  to  the  natives ;  and  the 
natives  preferred  to  live  near  a  station,  partly 
because  they  could  prosper  under  good  employers, 
and  partly  because  they  felt  sure  that  their  children 
would  be  well  educated. 

(b)  Some  Deeper  Problems.  At  every  place  where 
the  missionaries  began  new  work,  they  made  new 
discoveries  about  the  manners  and  beliefs  of  the 
people ;  the  variety  in  those  customs  and  beliefs 
was  bewildering ;  and  gradually  the  missionaries 
came  to  see  that  no  Church  can  understand  the 
natives  unless  it  makes  systematic  use  of  intelligent 
native  assistants.  Nor  was  this  idea  a  novelty. 
It  existed  in  the  days  of  Zinzendorf.  In  the  diary 
of  the  "  Disciples'  House "  it  is  recorded  that 
Zinzendorf  desired  to  send  Negro  preachers  from  the 
West  Indies  to  Surinam,  and  in  one  of  his  addresses 
he  even  suggested  that  West  Indian  Negro  preachers 
might  evangelize  Africa.  But  now,  in  Nyassa, 
something  on  these  lines  had  become  a  necessity. 
Only  the  native,  said  the  missionaries,  can  really 
understand  the  native  ;  only  the  native  knows  the 
reason  hang  behind  a  custom  ;  and  only  the  native, 
therefore,  can  say  whether  a  particular  custom  is 
or  is  not  consistent  with  the  principles  of  the 
Christian  religion.  Let  a  few  examples  illustrate 
the     point.       At     Rutenganio     the     people     were 

2G 


450        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

stupid  and  dull,  thought  the  missionary  a  wizard, 
and  refused  to  attend  the  Church  unless  they  were 
paid.  At  Ipiana  they  were  grossly  immoral, 
talked  and  spat  in  Church,  and  yet  informed  the 
missionaries  that  they  were  sinless.  At  Utengule 
they  trembled  under  the  rule  of  a  mighty  sorcerer. 
At  Isoko  the  people  believed  in  a  charm,  an  onion 
fixed  on  a  stick,  supposed  to  heal  diseases  and 
frighten  burglars  ;  and  at  Mbozi  the  native  assistants 
informed  the  missionary  that,  in  their  opinion,  the 
chief  source  of  moral  evil  was  polygamy.  But  evils 
Uke  these  were  not  the  real  difficulty.  Among 
the  natives  some  ^'customs,  such  as  polygamy  and 
witchcraft,  were  clearly  wicked  and  harmful ;  other 
customs,  however,  such'^  as  the  heathen  mode  of 
burying  the  dead,  might,  though  not  wicked  in 
themselves,  have  certain  wicked  associations  ;  and, 
not  knowing  whether  to  forbid  such  customs  or  not, 
the  missionaries  decided  at  last  to  take  the  natives 
into  their  confidence.  For  this  practical  purpose, 
therefore,  they  now  summoned  a  Native  Conference 
(October,  1913).  At  this  Conference,  thirty-six 
delegates,  elected  by  the  communicant  members, 
attended  ;  thereby  the  first  step  was  taken  towards 
the  formation  of  a  more  or  less  self-governing  Native 
Church  ;  and  the  questions  discussed  by  the  delegates 
were  such  as  these  :  May  a  Christian  allow  his  young 
child  to  be  promised  in  marriage  ?  May  a  Christian 
eat  food  that  has  been  sacrificed  to  idols  ?  What 
is  a  Christian  to  do  if  so  many  women  have  been 
left  him  by  will  ?  On  all  such  questions  as  these  the 
delegates  had  useful  suggestions  to  make  ;  and  the 
idea  of  a  Native  Church  seemed  now  within  the 
bounds  of  possibility.  At  this  interesting  point, 
however,  the  Great  War  broke  out ;  soon  afterwards 
Nyassa  became  the  scene  of  military  operations ; 
and   the   Mission,    with   all   its   bright   possibilities. 


East  Central  Africa  :   Nyassa.  451 

was  transferred,  for  the  time  being,  to  the  United 
Free  Church  of  Scotland. 

Additional  Note. 


WORK  AMONG  THE  LEPERS. 

At  Rungwe,  Ipiana,  Rutenganio,  and  Isoko,  the 
Colonial  Government  opened  Leper  Homes,  and  in 
these  homes  the  missionaries  ministered  to  about  2,000 
patients.  From  the  spiritual  point  of  view,  however, 
the  work  was  disappointing.  In  most  cases,  said  the 
missionaries,  suffering  did  not  seem  to  teach  patience. 
It  rather  hardened  and  debased  the  character. 

At  Rutenganio,  e.g.,  the  lepers  gave  way  to  a  dull 
fatalism.  "  If  I  die,  I  die,"  said  one.  "  God  hates 
me ;    God  is  killing  me  ;   what  can  I  do  ?  " 


I 


Chapter  X. 
EAST  CENTRAL  AFRICA:    UNYAMWEZI, 

1898—1914. 
1.     The  Plan  of  Campaign. 

Once  more,  as  in  the  case  of  Nyassa,  the  invitation 
came  from  English  missionary  sources.  For  eighteen 
years  the  London  Missionary  Society  (1879-97)  had 
held  an  isolated  outpost  named  Urambo,  situated 
due  south  of  Lake  Victoria  Nyanza ;  the  whole 
district  was  known  as  Unyamwezi,  and  lay  north  of 
Nyassa  ;  and  there,  although  no  converts  had  been 
gained,  some  good  preliminary  work  had  been 
accomplished.  First  came  a  medical  missionary. 
Dr.  Southon,  who,  however,  early  in  his  career,  was 
accidentally  shot ;  then  followed  Thomas  F.  Shaw, 
who  laboured  thirteen  years  ;  and  during  these  years 
Shaw  and  his  colleagues  made  Urambo,  in  one  sense, 
a  good  centre  for  further  missionary  enterprise. 
They  built  a  number  of  houses  and  a  school ;  they 
translated  St.  Mark's  Gospel  into  the  Unyamwezi 
dialect ;  they  published  a  small  hymn-book  ;  they 
healed  the  sick ;  and,  though  their  preaching  resulted  in 
no  conversions,  they  gathered  a  congregation  of  about 
four  hundred  natives,  who  came  to  the  church,  sang 
hymns,  and  listened,  it  is  said,  to  part  of  the  sermon. 
For  two  strategic  reasons,  however,  the  L.M.S. 
now  asked  the  Moravian  Church  to  take  over  Urambo. 
In  the  first  place  Urambo  was  a  long  distance  from 
their  other  stations  situated  in  British  East  Africa  ; 
in  the  second  place  it  was  not  far  from  the  Moravian 
stations  in  Nyassa,  especially  the  more  northerly 
ones  in  Nyika  and  Usafwa  ;  and  the  general  idea 
appears  to  have  been  that  if  the  Moravians  occupied 

(452) 


East  Central  Afeica  :    Unyamwezi.       458 

Unyamwezi,  they  might  soon  have  one  strong 
mission-field  covering  nearly  the  whole  region  between 
Lake  Victoria  Nyanza  and  Lake  Nyassa.  In  spite, 
therefore,  of  limited  means,  the  Mora\aan  Church 
accepted  the  L.M.S.'s  suggestion ;  the  mission- 
station  at  Urambo  was  bought ;  and  on  January 
2nd,  1898,  the  first  two  Mora\-ian  missionaries, 
accompanied  by  their  wives,  drew  near  the  village. 

The  scene  was  one  of  pomp  and  circumstance. 
At  that  time  the  chief  man  in  Urambo  was  a  powerful  1898 
chief  named  Kabagomato  ;  this  chief  had  a  pleasant 
manner,  knew  how  to  use  a  knife  and  fork,  and 
enjoyed  his  cigar  after  dinner  ;  and  now,  arrayed 
in  his  finest  robes,  and  followed  by  his  subjects,  he 
set  out  from  the  \'illage  to  meet  the  new  comers. 
The  two  missionaries  rode  on  Muscat  donkeys ; 
behind  them  came  their  respective  wives,  clad  in 
white  and  borne  in  hammocks  by  natives  ;  and  behind 
the  two  ladies  came  porters  with  luggage.  To  the 
natives  that  luggage  was  the  chief  attraction.  As 
soon  as  the  two  processions  met,  the  ceremony  of 
introduction  was  performed.  At  the  conunand  of 
Kabagomato,  the  natives,  waving  reeds  and  flags, 
executed  a  war-dance  ;  the  women  and  girls  crowded 
round  the  two  hammocks  ;  and  all  clamoured  for  the 
honour  of  shaking  hands.  In  appearance,  therefore, 
the  chief  and  his  people  rejoiced  to  see  the  Brethren  ; 
in  reaUty,  they  were  most  interested  in  the  packing 
cases  ;  and  the  secret  thought  in  their  minds  was  that, 
if  they  were  kind  to  the  Brethren,  they  would  soon 
receive  something  good  to  eat.  The  real  character 
of  the  chief  was  soon  revealed.  At  first  he  fawned  on 
the  Brethren,  and  gave  them  a  calf ;  then  he  was 
heard  to  utter  mysterious  threats  ;  and,  as  he  had 
already  committed  several  murders,  the  Government 
intervened  and  put  him  in  prison. 

Meanwhile,  the  Brethren  had  begun  the  campaign. 


454        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

For  ten  years  the  work  in  Unyamwezi  was  under  the 
management  of  Rudolph  Stern  ;  this  man  adopted 
the  plan  of  pushing  the  cause  steadily  southward, 
to  join  the  older  work  in  Nyassa ;  and  thus,  under  his 
leadership,  a  row  of  stations,  from  north  to  south, 
was  founded.  First,  in  1901,  the  Brethren  founded 
Kitunda ;  then,  a  little  to  the  south  of  Urambo, 
Sikonge  (1902) ;  then,  still  further  south,  Ipole 
(1903) ;  then,  still  further  south,  Kipembabwe 
(1904).  At  this  point,  however,  a  slight  change 
was  made  in  the  plan  of  campaign.  For  the 
purpose,  apparently,  of  strengthening  the  line,  the 
next  station,  Usoke  (1907),  was  founded,  not  as  we 
might  have  expected,  still  further  south,  but 
between  Urambo  and  Sikonge.  But  this  move  had 
also  another  object.  At  that  time  the  chief  town  in 
Unyamwezi  was  Tabora,  a  little  to  the  south-east  of 
Urambo ;  there  the  Mahometans  were  exception- 
ally strong  ;  and  thus,  by  having  four  stations  fairly 
close  together — Urambo,  Usake,  Sikonge,  and 
Ipole — the  Brethren  hoped  to  hold  their  own 
against  Mahometan  influence.  By  means  of  this 
plan,  therefore,  the  Moravians  in  Unyamwezi  designed 
to  accomplish  two  great  purposes.  First,  they  hoped 
to  establish  a  connexion  between  Unyamwezi  in  the 
north  of  the  colony  and  Nyassa  in  the  south;  and 
secondly,  they  hoped  to  form  a  strong  barrier  against 
the  powerful  Mahometan  movement  at  Tabora. 
At  all  these  stations  the  same  kind  of  work — 
preaching,  teaching,  and  healing  the  sick — was  done. 
In  1910  Stern  completed  his  translation  of  the  New 
Testament ;  other  books  of  a  useful  nature — Bible 
Stories,  a  Catechism,  a  School  Primer,  and  a  book  of 
instructions  for  native  evangelists — were  issued ; 
and  on  the  average  about  a  dozen  missionaries  were 
employed.  And  yet,  on  the  whole,  the  results  were 
disappointing.     In  1906  the  number  of  converts  was 


East  Central  Africa  :    Unyamwezi.       455 

only  fifteen  ;  in  1910  it  was  only  one  hundred  ;  and 
in  1913  it  was  only  two  hundred  and  forty-seven. 
Such  figures  raise  an  interesting  question :  How 
was  it  that  in  Unyamwezi  progress  was  so  much 
slower  than  in  Nyassa  ? 

2.    The  Cause  of  the  Trouble. 

For  the  slow  progress  of  the  work  in  Unyamwezi, 
only  one  reason,  in  Stem's  opinion,  could  be  given ; 
that  reason  was  to  be  found,  not  in  the  superstitions 
of  the  people,  but  in  what  he  called  their  "  devilish 
deceit  and  indifference  "  ;  and  the  impression  pro- 
duced on  his  mind  was  that  all  the  while  the 
missionaries  were  fighting  against  an  unseen  foe.  In 
Nyassa  the  opposition  was  mostly  open ;  in  Unyamwezi 
it  was  secret  and  cunning ;  and,  therefore,  to  under- 
stand the  situation,  we  must  now  look  more  closely 
at  the  character  of  the  people. 

(a)  Religion.  For  us  the  interesting  point  to 
notice  is  that  in  some  of  their  religious  beliefs  these 
Unyamwezi  people  resembled  the  IsraeUtes.  Like 
the  Israelites  they  beUeved  in  one  Supreme  Creator 
and  Sustainer  of  life ;  like  the  IsraeUtes,  they  said  that 
man,  originally  immortal,  lost  his  immortahty  through 
the  sin  of  a  woman  ;  and  further,  like  the  Israelites, 
they  had  their  own  story  of  the  Tower  of  Babel. 
The  story  of  the  loss  of  immortality  was  remarkable. 
In  the  beginning,  said  the  people,  Sheda  Mahinda, 
the  Creator,  after  creating  the  world  and  all  the 
animals,  created  two  women  ;  each  of  these  women 
he  married  and  loved  ;  and,  when  the  one  he  loved  the 
more  dearly  died,  he  was  inconsolable,  buried  her 
body  in  a  hut,  watched  by  her  graveside,  watered 
the  grave  daily,  and  forbade  his  surviving  wife 
to  enter  the  hut.  In  due  time  Sheda  Mahinda's 
fidelity  received  a  strange  reward.  There,  on  his 
dead  wife's  grave,  sprang  up  and  bloomed  the  Tree  of 


450        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Life,  and  that  tree  was  a  sign  that  the  men  whom 
he  created  were  immortal.  At  this  point,  however, 
his  surviving  wife  intervened.  In  the  hut,  apparently, 
it  was  cold  ;  one  day  Sheda  Mahinda  went  to  fetch 
some  firewood  ;  and  his  wife,  seizing  her  opportun- 
ity, entered  the  hut,  seized  an  axe,  and  chopped  the 
Tree  of  Life  to  pieces.  Thus  did  an  inquisitive  woman 
rob  man  of  his  immortality.  The  other  story, 
however,  bore  a  still  closer  resemblance  to  the 
scripture  narrative.  At  first,  said  the  Unyamwezi 
people,  all  men  lived  in  one  town  and  spoke  one 
language  ;  then  certain  ambitious  schemers,  desiring 
to  obtain  water  from  the  sky,  built  a  high  tower ; 
and  lo  !  just  at  the  last  moment,  just  when  the 
builders  were  laying  the  last  stones,  just  when  they 
had  nearly  reached  the  sky,  a  terrible  hurricane  began 
to  blow.  The  tower  fell,  all  the  builders  were  killed, 
and  the  rest  of  the  people,  fleeing  in  terror,  were 
scattered  far  and  wide.  Thus  did  man's  impious 
ambition  lead,  as  in  the  Bible  narrative,  to  the  con- 
fusion of  tongues. "I"  In  spite,  however,  of  the  first 
woman's  sin,  men,  though  not  immortal  on  earth, 
might  be  so  in  the  next  world.  "  We  all  hope," 
said  a  native  to  one  of  the  missionaries,  "  to  go  to  a 
beautiful  place,  where  there  is  no  work  to  do  and 
plenty  to  eat."  In  these  religious  beliefs,  it  is  clear, 
there  was  nothing  (except,  perhaps,. the  gross  con- 
ception of  heaven)  exceptionally  degrading. 

(b)  Superstitions.  Nor  were  these  any  worse  than 
those  of  other  heathen.  In  common  with  many 
other  Bantu  tribes,  the  Wanyamwezi  beheved  in 
sorcerers  and  rain  makers,  wore  amulets  to  keep 
off  diseases,  and  offered  sacrifices  to  departed  spirits. 
For  the  last  purpose  beer  was  generally  used  ;    only 

fFor  a  similar  story,  told  by  the  natives  of  Mkulwe,  another 
district  in  German  East  Africa,  see  Sir  J.  G.  Frazer's  "  Folk- 
Lore  in  the  Old  Testament,"  Vol.  I.,  p.  377. 


e«arye  miip  i  Son.  tU 


East  Central  Africa  :    Unyamwezi.       457 

a  little  was  offered  to  the  departed  ;  and  the  sacrificial 
feast  was  made  an  excuse  for  a  drunken  orgy. 

(c)  Materialism.  According  both  to  Stern  and 
his  colleague,  Medier,  the  chief  obstacle  to  the 
spread  of  the  Gospel  was  not  the  people's  super- 
stitions, but  their  materialistic  conceptions  of  life. 
At  Urambo,  for  example,  most  of  the  people  were 
farmers,  most  of  whom  made  money  by  selling  their 
produce  at  Tabora,  and  now  they  deliberately  told 
the  missionary  that,  as  long  as  they  prospered  in 
business,  they  saw  no  reason  to  change  their  religion. 
"  If  the  Gospel  brings  more  money,"  they  said, 
"  we  will  have  it ;  if  not,  we  can  do  without  it." 
The  case  of  Kaswika,  a  chief,  was  fairly  typical. 
One  day,  in  the  church,  the  missionaries  prayed  for 
rain ;  next  day  rain  fell ;  and  forthwith  Kaswika 
became  a  regular  worshipper.  Nor  was  this 
materiaUsm  confined  to  the  love  of  money ;  both 
drink  and  sensuality  were  common  ;  and  most  of  the 
people's  conversation  was  on  degrading  topics.  But 
what  was  the  secret,  malevolent  force  behind  this 
materiaUsm  ?  To  that  question  the  missionaries 
could,  as  yet,  give  no  answer. 

3.     The  New  Move,  1910-14. 

At  last  affairs  in  Unyamwezi  came  to  what  may  1910 
almost  be  called  a  crisis.  At  the  very  time  when  the 
patient  Brethren  were  just  beginning  to  see  some  signs 
of  improvement,  the  Government  began  to  construct 
a  railway  to  connect  Dar-es-Salam  on  the  coast, 
with  Ujiji  on  the  western  frontier  ;  all  men  working  on 
the  railway  were  offered  good  wages  ;  and,  forthwith, 
most  of  the  men  at  the  stations  found  employment 
on  the  line.  Such  men  were  now  exposed  to  two 
perils.  On  the  one  hand  they  were  in  danger  of  becom- 
ing fonder  of  money  than  ever  ;  on  the  other,  they 
were  brought  into  still  closer  touch  with  Mahometans; 


458       A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

and  the  Brethren,  reaUsing  the  issues  at  stake, 
now  took  three  important  measures.  First, 
they  sent  a  missionary  to  Tabora,  to  preach  there  to 
the  Mahometans ;  then  they  opened  a  Training 
School  for  native  teachers  at  Sikonge  (October, 
1918) ;  and,  thirdly,  working  in  co-operation  both 
with  the  Berlin  Missionary  Society  and  the  C.M.S., 
they  began — chiefly  by  providing  teachers — to 
minister  to  the  spiritual  needs  of  all  men,  both 
Mahometans  and  heathen,  employed  on  the  railway 
line.  And  this  was  the  hopeful  situation  when  the 
Great  War  began. 


BOOK  IV. 


METHODS,  MEASURES,   AND  IDEALS. 


CHAPTER  PAGE 

1.  The  System  of  Government    .     .    .  468 

2.  The  Work  of  the  Synods,  1760—1909.  473 

8.     The  Synod  of  1914  ;     or,  Moravian 

Missionary  Ideals 495 


(461) 


Chapter  I. 

THE  SYSTEM  OF  GOVERNMENT. 

1.    The  General  Synod. 

In  what  way  does  the  Moravian  Church  differ 
from  other  Evangelical  Churches  ?  In  her  attitude 
towards  Foreign  Missions.  For  one  hundred  and 
ninety  years — ever  since  Leonard  Dober  set  out  for 
St.  Thomas — the  fundamental  and  distinguishing 
feature  of  the  Moravian  Church  has  been  that 
Foreign  Missions  are  the  work,  not  of  some  society 
within  the  Church,  such  as  the  C.M.S.  and  the 
L.M.S.,  but  of  the  Moravian  Church  as  such  ;  at  one 
Sjmod  (1857)  this  principle  was  explicitly  and 
officially  asserted  ;t  and  one  consequence  of  this 
principle  is  that  all  Foreign  Mission  matters  have 
been,  and  still  are,  under  the  authority  and  control, 
not  of  any  Missionary  Society,  but  of  a  General 
Synod  representing,  and  appointed  by,  the  whole 
Moravian  Church.  Let  us  then  note  how  the  General 
Synod  was  constituted,  and  how  it  dealt  with  Foreign 
Missions.  Its  members  may  be  di^^ded  into  three 
classes.  First,  there  were  so  many  ex-officio  members, 
i.e.,  all  the  members  of  the  Mission  Board,  two 
from  the  Continental  Provincial  Board,  one  from  the 
British,  one  from  each  of  the  American  Pro\Tnces, 
two  from  the  West  Indies,  two  bishops  from  each 
of  the  four  Home  Provinces,  and  the  Mission 
Secretary  in  England ;  secondly,  twenty-seven 
delegates  from  the  Home  Provinces,  i.e.,  nine  from 

t  Synodal  Results,  1857,  pp.  120-1. — "  There  never  will  be 
a  Unity  of  the  Brethren  without  a  Mission  to  the  Heathen, 
or  a  Mission  of  the  Brethren  which  is  not  the  afFair  of  the 
whole  Church  as  such.  The  Missions  do  not  belong  to  them- 
selves, nor  yet  to  a  Society,  nor  even  to  a  portion  of  the 
Brethren's  Church,  but  to  the  whole  Brethren's  Unity." 

(463) 


464        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

the  Continental,  nine  from  the  British,  seven  from 
the  American  (North),  and  two  from  the  American 
(South)  ;  and  thirdly,  six  missionaries,  fom*  sum- 
moned by  the  Mission  Board,  and  two  elected  by  the 
West  Indian  Provinces.  In  the  constitution  of  the 
General  Synod  one  remarkable  feature  needs  explana- 
tion. In  spite  of  the  fact  that  the  Synod  dealt  with 
Missions,  the  number  of  missionaries  present  was 
extremely  small.  For  nearly  a  century  after 
Zinzendorf's  death,  i.e.,  till  1857,  the  only  missionaries 
attending  a  General  Synod  were  such  as  the  U.E.C.  had 
summoned.  In  1818  no  missionaries  were  present ; 
in  1825  three  attended  as  advisory  members  ;  in 
1836  three  as  voting  members ;  ?  in  1848  two  as 
advisory  members ;  and  in  1857  three  as  voting 
members.  Again,  take  the  General  Synod  of  1899. 
In  that  year  the  number  of  voting  members  was 
fifty-four ;  only  six  were  missionaries  ;  and  these 
six  were  entitled  to  vote,  not  because  they  had  been 
elected,  but  because  the  U.E.C.  had  summoned  them 
after  receiving  confidential  votes.  Such  facts  raise 
an  interesting  question:  How  was  it  that  at  these 
General  Synods  nine-tenths  of  the  members  were 
either  ex-officio  members,  or  elected  representatives 
of  the  Home  Provinces  ?  Why  were  not  more 
missionaries  summoned  ?  Why  were  the  Mission 
Provinces  not  more  adequately  represented  ?  For 
this  apparent  injustice,  however,  the  following  cogent 
reasons  might  be  given  : — 

(1)  The     General    Synod    legislated    on   matters 

concerning  the  whole  Church,  such  as 
doctrine  and  forms  of  worship  ;  and  with 
such  questions  the  Mission  Provinces  were 
not  yet  competent  to  deal. 

(2)  The    Home    Provinces    contributed    money, 

not  only  for  their  own  expenses,  but  also 
for  the  Mission  Provinces.     But  the  Mission 


The  System  of  Government.  465 

Provinces  contributed  only  towcirds  their 
own  support.  Therefore,  the  Home  Pro- 
vinces were  entitled  to  far  more  voting 
power. 

(3)  The  Home  Provinces  supplied  and  educated 

most  of  the  missionaries. 

(4)  With  a  few  exceptions,  the  native  converts 

were  not  yet  sufficiently  advanced  to  under- 
take legislative  functions. 

(5)  To  summon  many  missionaries  would  have 

involved  enormous  expense. 

(6)  The  few  missionaries  who  did   attend   were 

generally  men  of  exceptional  wisdom  and 
experience  ;  and  such  information  as  they 
imparted  was  sufficient  to  enable  the  Synod 
to  arrive  at  sound  decisions. 

By  the  Synod,  therefore,  all  laws  concerning  Foreign 
Missions  were  passed  ;  to  the  Synod  the  Mission 
Board  presented  its  report ;  and  by  the  Synod  the 
Mission  Board  was  elected. 

At  the  General  Synods  such  questions  as  these 
were  discussed  and  settled  : — 

(a)  Shall  a  request  to  undertake  new  work  be 
accepted  or  dechned  ? 

In  1848,  e.g.,  the  General  Synod  decided  to  under- 
take new  work  in  Nicaragua  and  Victoria  ;  and  in 
1889  it  sanctioned  the  proposed  Missions  in  Nyassa 
and  North  Queensland.  During  inter-synodal  periods, 
however,  the  Governing  Board  could  authorise  new 
enterprises.  Thus,  e.g.,  the  U.E.C.,  without  waiting 
for  a  General  Synod,  undertook  new  work  in  Western 
Tibet,  Demerara,  and  Alaska. 

{b)    Shall  any  field  be  abandoned  or  handed  over 
to  another  Church  ? 
In  1899,  e.g.,  the  transfer  of  Greenland  was  authorised 
by  the  Synod,  and  in  1909  the  question  was  discussed 

2H 


466        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

whether  CaUfornia  and  Unyamwezi  should  be  handed 
over  to  other  Societies. 

(c)  How  much  money  from  General  Funds  may 

be  allocated  to   any  particular   Province  ? 

The  most  striking  example  is  that  of  the  West  Indies. 
In  1899  the  Synod  devised  the  sliding  scale  described^ 
in  the  next  chapterjj 

(d)  To   what   extent,    and   on   what   conditionsi 

shall  a  Mission  Province  be  self-governing  ? 

_Once  more  the  best  example  is  the  West  Indies.     In 
tEe  next  chapter  it  will  be  explained  how  the  two. 
West  Indian  Provinces  were  granted  a  measure  o£. 
independence. 

(e)  For   what   purpose   may   a   legacy,   which   is 

not  ear-marked,  be  most  suitably  used  ? 

In  1889,  e.g.,  the  Synod  decided  to  use  part  of  the 
Krakau  Trust  to  begin  new  work  in  German  East 
Africa. 

(/)  How  and  where  shall  candidates  for  mission 
service  be  educated  ?  What  qualities  must 
the  candidates  possess  ?  What  doctrines 
shall  the  missionaries  preach  ?  What 
methods  of  pastoral  work  shall  they  adopt  ? 
What  provision  shall  be  made  for 
missionaries'  pensions,  widows,  and  the 
education  of  missionaries'  children  ? 

Thus  did  the  General  Synods  deal,  not  only  with 
general  principles  and  methods,  but  with  almost 
every  conceivable  detail. 

2.     The  Mission  Board. 

At  the  General  Synod  in  1899  a  resolution  was 
passed  that,  during  an  inter-synodal  period,  the 
Foreign  Missions  should  be  managed  by  the  Mission 
Board,    elected    by   the   General   Synod,    and   con- 


The  System  oi  Government.      467 

sisting  of  five  members,  i.e.,  one  from  each  of  the 
three  Home  Provinces,  and  two  from  the  mission 
fields ;  and  this  Synod  not  only  described  the 
functions  of  the  Board  in  general,  but  also  defined 
them   with   elaborate   detail. 

(1)  General  Functions  : — 

(a)  To  administer  the  Foreign  Missions  in  their 

entirety. 

(b)  To  represent  the  Missions  outside  the  Church, 

i.e.,   in  legal  processes   and  in  negotiating 
with  other  Churches. 

(c)  To    manage    all    property    used    for    Mission 

purposes. 

(d)  To   provide   both   men   and    means    for   the 

work. 

(2)  Special  Functions. — For  the  reader's  convenience 

these  may  be  classified  thus  : — 

Administrative. 

For  the  whole  work  the  Mission  Board  was  held 
responsible  ;  over  the  whole  work,  therefore,  it 
must  reign ;  and  to  this  end  it  was  both  authorised 
and  instructed  : — 

(a)  To  act  as  a  Court  of  Appeal  in  all  disputes. 
By  two  authorities  only  could  its  decisions 
be  over-ruled,  i.e.,  by  a  General  Synod, 
or  by  the  Governing  Board  of  the  whole 
Moravian  Church. 

(6)  To  appoint  a  President  and  a  Warden  in 
every  Mission  Province,  except  the  two 
West  Indian  Provinces. 

(c)  To  veto,  if  need  be,  any  resolution  passed 
by  a  Mission  Province  Conference. 

{d)  To  sanction,  or  the  reverse,  the  election 
of  its  own  Governing  Board  by  any 
Mission  Pro\'ince  Conference. 


468        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

(e)  To  sanction,  or  forbid,  any  action 
contemplated  by  any  such  Provincial 
Mission  Board. 

(/)  To  sanction,  or  forbid,  the  proposed  estab- 
lishment of  a  new  station. 

(g)  To  keep  in  touch  with  all  Moravian 
Auxiliary  Missionary  Societies,  such  as 
the  S.F.G.  in  England,  and  the  S.P.G. 
in    North  America. 

(h)  To  examine,  either  orally  or  through  the 
post,  all  candidates  for  mission  service  ; 
and  make  sure  that  each  candidate 
possessed  the  requisite  physical,  mental, 
and  spiritual  qualities. 

(i)  To  sanction  all  ordinations.  Without  the 
permission  of  the  Mission  Board  no 
Bishop    could    ordain    any    candidate. 

(j)  To  call  all  missionaries  to  their  posts, 
grant,  or  refuse,  requests  for  furlough, 
and  decide  whether,  on  grounds  of  old- 
age  or  ill-health,  any  missionary  was 
entitled  to  retire  on  pension. 

(k)  To  see  that  each  missionary  visited  the  sick, 
undertook  the  cure  of  souls,  and,  generally, 
performed  his  duties,  not  only  as 
preacher,  but  as  pastor. 

{I)  To  decide  how  far  the  rules  on'  Church 
Discipline  could  be  applied  in  any  parti- 
cular Mission  Province.  In  some  Mission 
Provinces  these  rules  could  be  enforced 
much  more  strictly  than  in  others,  and 
the  Mission  Board  was  supposed  to  under- 
stand the  varying  local  circumstances. 

(m)  To  encourage,  among  the  converts,  such 
means  of  edification  as  family-prayers, 
prayer-meetings,  Bible-study,  and  young 


The  System  of  Government.  469 

men's  and  young  women's  Christian 
Associations, 
(n)  To  regulate  the  amount  of  instruction 
imparted  to  baptismal  candidates.  The 
amount  varied  in  different  mission  fields. 
In  Surinam,  e.g.,  the  standard  would 
be  high ;  in  North  Queensland  it  would 
be  much  lower ;  and  the  Mission  Board 
would  vary  the  standard  according  to 
the  intellectual  status  of  the  natives. 

Financial. 

(a)  To  act  as  the  legal  owner  and  representative 
of  the  central  business  establishment  at 
Herrnhut. 

(6)  With  the  aid  of  a  Finance  Committee, 
appointed  by  the  General  Synod,  to  super- 
vise the  working  of  that  establishment. 

(c)  To  manage,  directly  or  indirectly,  all  com- 

mercial firms  or  businesses  existing  on 
behalf  of  the  Missions,  and  to  appoint 
the  leading  officials  therein.  One  example 
will  suffice.  The  Mission  Board  appointed 
the  manager  of  the  firm  of  Kersten  &  Co. 
in  Surinam. 

(d)  With  the  aid  of  the  Finance  Committee, 

to  prepare  and  publish  an  annual  budget, 
i.e.,  a  clear  statement  of  the  expected 
income  and  expenditure  for  the  forth- 
coming year. 

{e)  To  see  that  all  the  converts  paid  their 
church-dues,  and  to  allocate  those  dues 
as  follows  : — 90  per  cent,  for  general 
Mission  funds,  and  10  per  cent,  for  the 
province^^in  which  the  money  was  raised. 

(/)     To  regulate  the  salaries  of  missionaries  and 


470        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

their  pensions,  according  to  varying  needs 
and  circumstances. 

Literary  and  Educational. 

(a)  To  manage  the  Mission  PubUcation  Office 

at  Herrnhut. 

(b)  To     supervise     the     monthly     Missionary 

Magazine,  Missions- Blatt. 

(c)  To   supervise   the   labours   of  any   brother 

appointed  as  historian  or  pamphleteer. 
{d)     To  arrange  for  the  publication  of  missionary 
literature   in   the   British   and   American 
Provinces. 
(e)     To   appoint  good  speakers  to  preach  and 
lecture,  on  behalf  of  Moravian  Missions, 
in  England  and  North  America,  not  only 
to   Moravians,    but   also   to   the   general 
,-f  Christian   public. 

I^(/)     To  supervise,  and,  if  possible,  improve  the 
J  instruction  given  at  the  Mission  College. 

j^K^ig)     To  arrange,  where  possible,  for  the  estab- 
lishment of  Training  Colleges  for  native 
teachers   and  preachers. 
(jy  (h)     To  see  that  all  missionaries  took  an  interest 
in  elementary  education. 

Thus  did  the  Mission  Board,  like  the  General 
Synod,  deal,  not  only  with  broad  methods  of  work, 
but  with  almost  every  conceivable  detail. 

3.    The  Mission  Provinces. 

With  the  exception  of  the  two  West  Indian 
Provinces,  which  were  entitled,  after  1899,  to  elect 
Synods,  the  general  rule  was  that  each  Province 
had  its  own  Conference,  consisting  of  all  missionaries 
who  had  been  two  years  in  the  service,  and  this 
Conference    could    not    only    make    laws,    subject 


The  System  of  GovERNirExr.  471 

to  the  approval  of  the  Mission  Board,  but 
also,  subject  to  the  same  approval,  elect  its  own 
Governing  Board,  known  as  the  Helpers'  Conference. 
In  each  Province  the  President  and  Warden  were 
appointed  by  the  Mission  Board.  In  theory  the 
Mission  Board  could  veto  any  resolution  passed  by 
a  Conference  ;  in  practice,  this  power  was  probably 
not  much  exercised ;  and,  after  1899,  the  general 
tendency  was  to  give  the  Provincial  Conferences  as 
much  liberty  as  possible.  As  the  minutes  of  all 
conferential  proceedings  had  to  be  sent  to  the  Mission 
Board,  nothing,  in  any  case,  could  take  place  without 
its  knowledge. 

4.    The  Congregations. 
By  the  nature  of  the  case  there  was,  and  could  be, 
no   absolutely   uniform   system.     Let   us   here   note 
merely  the  arrangements  made  in  the  most  thoroughly 
organized  congregations. 

(a)  First,  there  was  a  measure  of  self-government. 
Each  congregation  was  authorised  to  elect 
two  bodies ;  one,  which  we  may  call  a 
Committee,  to  look  after  temporalities ; 
and  the  other,  called  the  Board  of  Helpers, 
to  care  for  the  sick  and  watch  over  the 
spiritual  life  of  the  members.  No  member, 
e.g.,  could  be  excluded  without  the  sanction 
of  the  Board  of  Helpers. 

{b)  Secondly,  there  was  a  system  of  Church 
discipline.     This   took   three   forms  : — 

(1)  Admonition  or  reproof. 

(2)  Temporary  exclusion  from  the  Lord's 

Supper. 

(3)  Temporary  suspension  of  other  rights, 

such  as  the  right  to  vote  at  Church 
Meetings.     In  cases  of  persistent  and 


472        A  History  of  Moeavian  Missions. 

flagrant  sin,  the  member's  name  might 
be  struck  off  the  register. 

(c)  Thirdly,  in  most  congregations,  the  members 

were  divided  into  five  classes : — 

(1)  New     people,     i.e.,     candidates     for 

admission. 

(2)  Candidates    for    baptism,     i.e.,    those 

attending    a    Baptismal    instruction 
class. 

(3)  Baptized   children   under   16   years   of 

age,  i.e.,  children  still  awaiting  Con- 
firmation. 

(4)  Baptized  adults,  i.e.,  all  over  16  who 

have   been    baptized    but    not    con- 
firmed. 

(5)  Communicant  members,  i.e.,  those  who 

have  been  both  baptized  and  con- 
firmed. 

(d)  Fourthly,    great    stress    was    laid    on    the 

"  Speaking  "  ;  this  was  a  private  interview 
between  the  missionary  and  the  com- 
municant member,  or,  in  the  case  of  female 
converts,  between  the  convert  and  the 
missionary's  wife ;  and  without  that  inter- 
view no  member  might  attend  the  Holy 
Communion. 


Chapter  II. 

THE  WORK   OF  THE  SYNODS, 

1760—1909. 

In  order  to  understand  the  nature  of  the  work 
accomplished  by  the  General  Synods,  we  must  divide 
the  narrative  into  two  periods.  The  first  is  the 
period  1760-1848  ;  the  second  is  the  period  1848-1909. 
The  key-word  of  the  first  period  is  "  Consolidation," 
the  key-word  of  the  second  is  "  Advance."  For 
eighty-eight  years  (1760-1848)  after  the  death  ol- 
Zinzendorf,  the  Moravian  Church,  in  its  foreign 
mission  work,  was  engaged  almost  exclusively  in 
consolidating,  organizing,  and  developing  the  work 
in  the  West  Indies,  Greenland,  North  America, 
Surinam,  Labrador,  and  South  Africa  ;  then,  during 
the  second  period,  the  Church  undertook  new  tasks 
in  Nicaragua,  Western  Tibet,  Victoria,  the  Jerusalem 
Leper  Home,  Demerara,  Alaska,  California,  Nyassa, 
North  Queensland  and  Unyamwezi ;  and  the  funda- 
mental difference  between  these  two  periods  is  that 
while,  during  the  first  period,  the  problems  discussed 
at  the  General  Synods  were  comparatively  simple, 
diuing  the  second  they  became  increasingly  difficult 
and  complex.  During  the  first  period  the  General 
Synod  was,  on  the  whole,  a  conservative  body,  and 
made  few  changes  in  method  ;  during  the  second  it 
had  new  problems  to  solve,  and  instituted  several 
reforms.  Let  us  now  glance  briefly  at  the  chief 
resolutions  affecting  Foreign  Missions  passed  at  the 
General  Synods. 

Period  1.     Consolidation,  1760-1848. 

The  first  task  was  to  frame  a  constitution.     During 
Zinzendorf 's  Ufetime  no  fixed    constitution  existed  ; 

(473) 


474        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

now  a  constitution  was  a  necessity ;    and  the  first 
three     Synods     after     his     death     are    known    as 
"  Constitutional  Synods." 
1764  1.     The    First    Constitutional    Synod,    1764.     The 

three  resolutions  affecting  Foreign  Missions  were 
as  follows  : — 

(a)  The  General  Synod  is  the  supreme  legislative 
body.  Thereby  the  principle  was  officially 
recognised  that  Foreign  Missions  are  the 
work,  not  of  some  missionary  society 
within  the  Moravian  Church,  but  of  the 
Moravian  Church  as  a  whole. 
{h)  General  Synod  appoints  a  supreme  Inter- 
Sj'^nodal  Governing  Board,  known  as  the 
Directory, 
(c)  One  part  of  this  Board,  known  as  the  Mission 
Department,  manages  the  Foreign  Missions. 

1769  (2)     The  Second  Constitutional  Synod,  1769.     The 

supreme  governing  Board  is  now  called  the  Unity's 
Elders'  Conference,  and  is  generally  referred  to  as 
the  U.E.C.  This  U.E.C.  now  manages  the  Foreign 
Missions,  and  the  Mission  Department  is  simply  a 
business  committee  acting  under  the  U.E.C.'s 
authority. 

1775  (3)     Third    Constitutional   Synod,    1775.     At    this 

Synod  an  important  resolution  was  passed 
that  the  U.E.C.  should  keep  in  touch  with  the 
mission  fields  by  means  of  official  visitations.  Such 
visitations  had,  it  is  true,  been  occasionally  made 
already.  Henceforward,  however,  they  were  far 
more  frequent.f 

1782  (4)     General  Synod,  1782.     At  this  Synod  a  resolu- 

tion was  passed  that  the  U.E.C.  should  arrange  for 
and  authorise  the  publication  of  an  official  book  of 
instructions  for  all  missionaries.     This  was  a  change  of 

fFor  list  of  visitations  see  Appendix,  p.  525. 


The  Work  of  the  Synods.  475 

importance.  Formerly  the  missionaries  had  received 
their  instructions  almost  exclusively  from  Zin- 
zendorf ;  now  they  received  them  from  the  Moravian 
Church.  The  task  was  entrusted  to  Bishop 
Spangenberg.  In  1784  his  "  Instructions  for  Brethren 
and  Sisters  working  among  the  Heathen  "  appeared  ; 
English  and  Dutch  translations  were  published ; 
and  this  book — which,  of  course,  was  more  than  once 
revised — remained  the  Missionaries'  Manual  till  1889. 

(5)  General    Synod,    1789.     At    this    Synod    the      1789 
Mission   Department   was  made  an  integral  part  of 

the  U.E.C.,  and  henceforth  the  U.E.C.,  during 
inter-synodal  periods,  exercised  supreme  authority. 
At  this  Synod,  also,  three  important  progressive 
measures  were  passed  : 

{a)     That  the  Mission  in  South  Africa  be  resumed. 

ih)     That  a  new  Mission  be  established  in  Tobago. 

(c)  That  the  S.F.G.  be  authorised  to  publish 
Quarterly    Reportsf  of  the  mission   work. 

This  was  the  origin  of  "  Periodical  Accounts." 
On  the  other  hand  the  Synod  was  compelled  to 
decline  an  invitation  from  William  Wilberforce  to 
establish  a  Mission  in  New  Holland. 

(6)  General  Synod,  1818.     During  the  Napoleonic      1818 
Wars  information  about  mission  work  had  been  hard 

to  obtain  ;  this  lack  of  information  had  caused  a 
decline  in  missionary  zeal ;  and  this  Synod  remedied 
the  evil  by  authorising  the  publication  of  regular 
reports.  These  reports  appeared  six  times  a  year. 
This  was  the  first  step  on  the  Continent  towards  the 
publication  of  a  missionary  magazine. 

(7)  General   Synod,    1836.     At    this    Synod    two      1836 
resolutions  of  fundamental  importance  were  passed  : 

(a)     That    a    Monthly    Missionary    Magazine    be 
established    for    the    Continental    Province. 

tCompare  Book  L,  Chapter  XIV.,  p.  194. 


476        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

The  Magazine  was  entitled  Missions- Blatt. 
(b)  That  the  compulsory  use  of  the  Lot  in  the 
marriage  of  missionaries  be  abolished.  This 
was  the  first  step  towards  the  complete 
abolition  of  the  Lot.  By  degrees  it  fell 
into  disuse,  and  by  1889  it  had  ceased 
altogether. 

(8)  Summary  Statement.  During  this  period, 
therefore,  while  the  work  was  confined  to  the  old 
fields,  the  General  Synods,  while  making  no  drastic 
changes,  had,  at  least,  introduced  some  improve- 
ments.    They  had  : — 

(o)     Organized    a   system    of   government. 

(b)  Arranged  for  official  visitations. 

(c)  Provided      the      missionaries      with      official 

instructions. 

(d)  Authorised  the  publication  of  two  Missionary 

Magazines. 

(e)  Begun  the  abolition  of  the  Lot. 

For  other  needful  reforms,  however,  the  time  had  not 
yet  arrived.  No  attempt  had  yet  been  made  to 
render  the  old  fields  self-supporting  and  self- 
governing  ;  no  improvements  had  been  made  in  the 
mode  of  training  the  missionaries  ;  and  no  financial 
system  had  been  organized. 

Period  2.    The  Modern  Advance,  1848-1909. 

1848  (1)     The    Modern    Advance    Synod,    1848.     With 

this  Synod  we  enter  on  a  new  epoch,  and  the  causes 
of  the  great  change  should  be  carefully  noted.  The 
first  cause,  and  the  most  important,  was  the  general 
state  of  things  in  Europe.  The  great  year  of  many 
revolutions  had  come.  For  some  months  before  this 
General  Synod  assembled  nearly  every  great  city 
in  Europe  had  been  the  scene  of  soul-stirring  events, 
one    politician    spoke    of    this     "  proud    epoch    of 


The  Work  of  the  Synods.  477 

the  world's  history,  "f  and  ardent  reformers 
anticipated  the  fulfilment  of  Shelley's  prophecy  : — 

The  world's  great  age  begins  anew, 

The  golden  years  return, 
The  earth  doth  like  a  snake  renew 

Her  winter  weeds  outworn  ; 
Heaven  smiles,  and  faiths  and  empires  gleam 

Like  wrecks  of  a  dissolving  dream. 

At  Paris  the  people  had  risen  in  revolt,  over- 
thrown the  French  Monarchy,  and  re-estabUshed 
the  French  Republic.  At  Palermo,  in  Sicily, 
a  similar  revolution  had  taken  place.  At  Venice 
and  in  some  Italian  cities  there  had  been  fierce 
fighting  in  the  streets.  At  Vienna  a  huge  mob 
had  stormed  the  Royal  Palace;  at  Prague,  m  Bohemia, 
the  Czechs  were  fighting  for  Bohemian  national 
independence  ;  at  Dublin  Irish  patriots  were  clamour- 
ing for  a  republic  ;  and  at  BerUn,  Stuttgart,  and 
many  other  German  cities  great  mass  meetings  had 
been  held,  fiery  and  seditious  speeches  delivered, 
and  revolutionary  doctrines  propounded.  On  the 
Brethren  such  events  made  a  profound  impression. 
The  more  they  reflected  on  these  stupendous  pro- 
ceedings, the  more  convinced  they  became  that  a 
new  epoch  had  arrived  in  the  history  of  humanity. 
At  any  moment,  they  felt,  Christ  Himself  might  now 
appear  as  Judge  and  call  His  servants  to  account ; 
and,  not  wishing  to  be  ashamed  before  Him  at  His 
coming,  they  were  now  con^'inced  that,  ceasing  to 
confine  their  efforts  to  the  old  fields,  they  must  carry 
the  Gospel  to  heathen  still  dwelling  in  darkness. 

Nor  was  the  general  state  of  humanity  the  only 
impulse  to  new  action.  During  the  last  few  years  there 
had  been  observed,  both  in  the  Home  Pro\dnces  and  in 

tFor  a  sketch  of  theee  events  see  "  Cambridge  Modem  History," 
Vol.  XI.,  Chapters  H.  to  VH. 


478        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

the  mission  fields,  a  great  increase  in  evangelistic  zeal. 
In  the  Continental  Province,  a  great  religious  revival 
had  begun  at  the  Paedagogium  at  Niesky  (1841) ; 
in  Great  Britain  new  societies  on  behalf  of  Moravian 
Missions  had  been  founded,  the  "Yorkshire  Society  for 
the  Spread  of  the  Gospel,"  the  "Edinburgh  Associa- 
tion," and  the  "Glasgow  Auxiliary  Society"  ;  and  in 
the  American  Province  the  Moravian  S.P.G.  had 
showed  renewed  activity  in  its  mission  to  the  Indians. 
But  the  most  hopeful  feature  of  all  was  the  zeal  of  the 
missionaries  themselves.  Never  had  gaps  caused 
by  death  been  so  rapidly  filled.  In  1836  the  number 
of  missionaries  was  218  ;  in  1848,  it  was  288  ;  and 
some  of  these  new  recruits  were  engaged  in  new 
enterprises.  In  the  British  West  Indies,  day-schools 
were  being  opened  ;  in  Surinam  the  Mission  to  the 
Bush  Negroes  had  been  revived ;  and  in  South 
Africa  a  new  work  had  been  begun  among  the  Kaffirs. f 
On  the  financial  side  also  the  situation  was  bright. 
Of  the  seven  fields  now  in  existence  three  were 
entirely  independent  of  central  funds.  Surinam  was 
supported  entirely  by  Kersten  &  Co. ;  Labrador  by 
the  S.F.G.  ;  and  South  Africa  by  several  business 
concerns.  Such  facts  suggested  new  possibilities. 
At  this  Synod  the  question  was  now  asked  for  the 
first  time  whether  the  old  fields  could  not  be  made 
so  independent  that  henceforth  both  men  and  money 
could  be  applied  to  entirely  new  enterprises  ;  and, 
stimulated  by  this  ideal,  the  Synod  passed  the 
following    resolutions  : — 

(a)  That  a  systematic  attempt  be  made  to  render 
the  work  in  the  British  West  Indies  entirely 
independent.  In  these  islands,  i.e.,  the 
people  were  both  to  raise  their  own  ministry 
and  cover  their  own  expenses. 

tSee  Book  II.,  pp.   288-09. 


The  Work  of  the  Synods.  479 

(6)  That  the  question  be  considered  whether 
Greenland  and  the  Danish  West  Indies 
could  not  also  be  made  independent. 

(c)  That  fresh  attempts  be  made  to  institute  a 
Native  Ministry,  so  that  the  converts  would 
no  longer  require  the  services  of  European 
missionaries. 

{d)  That  the  chief  object  of  these  reforms  should 
be  to  release  men  and  money  for  new  work. 

(e)  That,  to  stimulate  interest  in  the  Home 
P^o^'inces,  annual  summer  festivals  be  held. 

(/)  That,  in  response  to  pressing  invitations,  new 
Missions  be  estabhshed  on  the  Moskito 
Coast  and  in  Victoria. 

Thus  did  the  revolutionary  movement  in  Europe 
inspire  the  Moravian  Church  with  new  ideals,  and 
thus  did  this  important  Sjiiod  initiate  the  Modern 
Advance. 

(2)  The  Constitutional  Synod,  1857.  The  next  1857 
step  was  to  encourage  self-government.  At 
this  Synod,  therefore,  two  measures  were  passed 
whereby  the  missionaries  themselves  should  play 
a  more  decided  part  in  the  discussion  and  manage- 
ment of  mission  concerns.  In  the  past,  missionaries 
had  taken  little  part  in  General  Sjiiods,  and  even 
at  this  SjTiod,  only  three,  specially  summoned  by 
the  U.E.C.,  were  present.  But  now  the  following 
definite  arrangements  were  made  : — 

(a)  That,  in  each  Missionary  Province,  the 
missionaries,  meeting  in  regular  conference, 
shall,  if  possible,  prepare  resolutions  to 
be  submitted  to  a  General  Synod. 
{h)  That  the  number  of  missionaries  summoned 
to  a  General  Synod  shall  in  future  be  not 
fewer  than  five.     Before  summoning  these 


480        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

five,    the    U.E.C.    shall    first    obtain    the 
confidential  votes  of  the  missionaries.! 

1869  (3)     The  Mission-College  Synod,  1869.     The  next 

task  was  to  make  the  missionaries  more  efficient. 
For  one  hundred  and  thirty-seven  years  (1732-1869), 
i.e.,  ever  since  Zinzendorf  gave  a  few  lectures  to  the 
first  recruits  at  Herrnhut,  the  Moravian  Church  had 
acted  on  the  principle  that  if  a  candidate  for  foreign 
service  was  taught  by  the  Holy  Spirit,  had  peace 
with  God  through  Christ,  followed  after  holiness, 
and  had  the  requisite  mental  endowments,  no 
special  training  was  required.  No  Mission  College, 
therefore,  existed ;  and  though  a  few  of  the 
missionaries,  having  been  trained  for  home  service, 
or  having  taught  in  boarding-schools,  were  men  of 
good  education,  the  greater  number  still  came  from 
the  artisan  classes,  passed  through  elementary  day- 
schools,  and  acquired  their  theological  knowledge 
either  in  a  Brethren's  House  or  in  a  Sunday  School. 
In  vain  a  few  radicals  had  tried  to  introduce  a 
reform.  In  1825  the  General  Synod  decided  that  a 
Mission  College  would  be  useless  ;  in  1836  that  such 
an  institution  would  probably  do  more  harm  than 
good  ;  in_J.848  that  the  old  methods  of  education 
were  the  best ;  and  in  1857  that,  if  any  candidate 
required  further  instruction,  he  might  obtain  all  he 
needed,  either  by  taking  lessons  from  his  minister, 
or  by  spending  a  year  as  teacher  or  lay-preacher 
in  England.  For  this  opposition  to  higher  education 
the  Brethren  gave  an  explicit  reason.  At  the 
1836  Synod  the  question  was  fully  discussed  ;  schemes 
for  more  education  were  considered  ;  and  the  Synod 
rejected  those  schemes  on  the  ground  that,  with  the 


\  'tAt  the  next  Synod  (1869)  this  rule  was  slightly  modified.    The 
\  number  summoned  must  not  be  fewer  than  four,  and  not  more 

*  than  six.     The  fields  represented  were  South  Africa,  Surinam, 

Jamaica,  Antigua,  Greenland,  Labrador. 


The  Work  of  niK  Synods.  481 

exception  of  men  already  highly  educated,  the  less 
education  a  man  had  the  more  loyal,  more  obedient^ 
and  more  self-sacrificing  he  would  be.     High-class 
education    might    be    good ;     half    education    was 
dan}a;erous  ;  and,  the  first  being  impossible,  the  second 
must  be  rejected.     "  Would  it  not  be  a  pity,"  the 
Synod    declared,     "  if,     through    a    half-education, 
men,  otherwise  useful,  lost  their  simplicity  of  mind 
and  willingness  to  serve  without  reward  ?  "     Mean- 
while, however,  circumstances  had  altered  in  some 
of  the  mission  fields.     In  the  older  fields,  t_he_  native 
conyerts_ffei:e,jciQK_Jietti^_£diLcated,_and  the  more  _ 
educated  the  natives  were,  the  more  education,  said 
the  rcforniers,  was  required  in  the  missionaries.     At 
Fairfield,    in    Jamaica,    Jacob    Zorn    had    opened    a 
Teachers'  Training  School ;    at  Genadendal,  in  South 
Africa,  Hottentots  were  obtaining  government  teach- 
ing certificates  ;   and,  so  persistently  did  the  reformers 
insist  on  such  facts  as  these,  that,  early  in  1869,  the 
U.E.C.,  without  waiting  for  a  General  Synod,  opened 
a  Mission  College  at  Niesky,  in  Silesia.     Thus  did  the 
Church  introduce  a  new  principle  in  the  training  of 
missionaries ;     and    the   action    of  the   U.E.C.    was 
warmly  endorsed  by  the  S\Tiod.     In  1885  a  handsome 
building  was  erected  ;    the  course  of  training  was  to 
last  lhre£-  years  ;    and  the  curriculum  included  Bible  ^ 
study.     History    of    Missions,    Homiletics,     English 
language,  Music,  Gardening,  Carpentry,  and  a  little 
Medicine.     In    1892    a    Preparatory    Mission    School 
was   opened   at   Konigsfeld,    in  Baden  (transferred  in 
1900  to  Ebersdorf) ;     in   1903   a  Mission  College  was 
opened    at   Bristol  for  British  students  ;    and,    both 
on  the  continent  and  in  England,  a  few  candidates 
became  fully   qualified  medical  practitioners. 

(4)     The    Self-Support    Synod,    1879.     The    next      lg79 
task    was    to    make    the    old    fields    self-supporting. 
In  one  sense  three  fields,  as  we  have  seen,  were  self- 


482        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

supporting  already,  i.e.,  they  needed  no  financial 
assistance  from  central  funds.  With  the  aid  of  the 
S.F.G.  Labrador  was  self-supporting  ;  with  the  aid 
of  business  concerns,  both  Surinam  and  South 
Africa  could  cover  their  own  expenses  ;  and  now 
the  great  question  was  whether  the  West  Indies  and 
Greenland  could  not  be  placed  in  the  same  position. 
Of  these  two,  the  West  Indies,  seemed  the  more  hope- 
ful.  Already,  certain  important  steps  had  been 
taken.  In  1847  the  work  in  Jamaica  was  placed  under 
a  General  Conference,  consisting  of  five  missionaries  ; 
in  1850  the  U.E.C.  decided  that  each  congregation 
might  elect  a  Congregation  Council ;  in  1869  each 
Council  was  empowered  to  elect  a  Committee 
authorised,  like  the  Committees  in  the  Home  Pro- 
vinces, to  look  after  temporalities  ;  and  in  1878  a 
Theological  College  was  opened  at  Fairfield  in 
Jamaica.  Thus,  it  was  hoped,  the  West  Indian 
congregations  might  not  only  pay  their  own  expenses, 
but  also  raise  their  own  Native  Ministry.  With 
this  two-fold  purpose,  the  General  Synod  resolved  : — 

That  the  West  Indian  Field  be  divided  into 
two  Provinces  ;    the  Western  consisting  of 
Jamaica  alone,  the  Eastern  of    the    other 
islands. 
(b)     That   each   Province   be   under   a   Governing 
Board,  appointed  by  the  U.E.C. 
\  y(c)     And  that  each  year  the  grant  to  the  West 
^j^  Indies    be    gradually    reduced.      In    1880 

^'  the  grant  was  to  be  £3,000  ;    each  year  the 

amount  would  be  reduced  by  £800  ;    and 
by  1890  it  would  be  nil 

Thus,  in  eleven  years,  each  West  Indian  Province 
would  become  financially  independent.  But  this 
scheme  was  only  partially  successful.  As  the 
Theological  College  at  Fairfield  had  to  be  closed — 


The  Work  of  the  Synods.  48S 

partly,  it  seems,  beeause  the  students  did  not  prove 
satisfactory — the  Brethren  in  the  West  Indies  were 
not  yet  able  to  establish  a  Native  Ministry,  and 
about  the  same  time  there  arose  such  a  serious 
crisis  in  the  sugar  industry  that  many  of  the  West 
Indian  converts  were  reduced  to  great  poverty. 
In  1890,  therefore,  a  new  sliding-scale  had  to  be 
adopted.  For  1890  the  grant  would  be  £900  ;  each 
j-ear  it  would  be  reduced  by  £90  ;  and  thus,  by  1900, 
the  two  West  Indian  Provinces  would  be  self- 
supporting.  But  once  again  bad  trade  conditions 
rendered  the  scheme  ineffectual.  In  1900  the  grant 
to  the  West  Indies  was  still  £1,000;  and  in  1914 
it  had  risen  to  £1,700.  Nevertheless,  the  West 
Indian  Provinces  were  almost  independent.  In 
Jamaica  the  sum  now  raised  was  £9,000  ;  in  the 
Western  Province  it  was  £8,000  ;  and  thus  the  West 
Indian  Provinces  covered  nine-tenths  of  their 
expenses.  Meanwhile,  there  had  also  been  an  in- 
crease in  the  number  of  native  ministers.  At  the 
close  of  1913  there  were  nine  native  ministers  in 
Jamaica,  and  thirteen  in  the  Eastern  Province. 

(5)  The  Missionary  Literature  Synod,  1889.  The  1889 
next  task  was  to  enlighten  the  Mora^^an  public.  At 
this  Synod  an  important  resolution  was  passed  that 
some  Moravian  Brother  should  be  appointed  to  write 
a  systematic  "History  of  Moravian  Missions";  and 
that,  while  engaged  in  this  great  task,  he  should,  in 
the  meantime,  bring  out  books  and  pamphlets  dealing 
with  the  various  mission  fields.  For  this  purpose  the 
man  selected  was  H.  G.  Schneider,  ^o  some  extent 
Schneider  succeeded.  On  the  one  hand  he  failed  to 
produce  a  systematic  history  ;  on  the  other  hand 
he  became  a  popular  pamphleteer ;  and,  making 
his  headquarters  at  Herrnhut,  where  he  could  con- 
verse with  retired  missionaries  and  thereby  obtain 
good  local  colour,  he  produced  a  series  of  sketch««  of 


484        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

the  highest  value  to  future  historians.  In  every 
field  Schneider  seemed  quite  at  home.  He  wrote  the 
history  of  the  Missions  in  Tibet,  Victoria,  Moskito, 
Alaska,  and  North  Queensland;  he  told  the  early 
story  of  Genadendal ;  he  described  in  detail  both 
Paramaribo  and  Leh  in  Kashmir ;  he  painted  a 
brilliant  picture  of  a  Christmas  in  Labrador ;  he 
unravelled  the  story  of  the  Bush  Negroes ;  and 
further,  in  a  series  of  short  biographies,  he  im- 
mortalised such  men  as  Jens  Haven,  of  Labrador, 
Frederick  Martin,  Hans  Peter  Hallbeck,  in  South 
Africa,  and  the  Kaffir  Evangelists,  Stephen  Prins  and 
Elias.  The  example  of  Schneider  was  followed  by 
other  writers.  During  the  next  twenty  years  several 
series  of  missionary  pamphlets  appeared.  Schneider's 
chief  series  was  known  as  "The  Good  Message"; 
another  series,  edited  by  Guido  Burkhardt,  was 
called  "  Missionary  Studies "  ;  a  third,  edited 
by  H.  Kluge,  was  called  "  Little  Tracts " ;  a 
fourth  was  "  In  Distant  Heathen  Lands  "  ;  and  a 
fifth  "  To  all  the  World."  At  the  same  time,  it 
must  be  candidly  admitted  that  little  work  of  this 
kind  was  done  either  in  England  or  in  North  America. 
Bishop  Arthur  Ward,  in  his  "  Miracle  of  Mapoon," 
narrated  the  history  of  the  North  Queensland  Mission  ; 
the  Rev.  J.  W.  Davey,  in  the  "  Fall  of  Torngak  " 
and  "  Through  Flood  and  Storm,"  dealt  respectively 
with  Labrador  and  the  North  American  Indians ; 
and  three  of  H.  G.  Schneider's  works,  "  Tibet," 
"  Stephen  Prins,"  and  "  Hanzina  Hinz  "  were  trans- 
lated into  English.  But  these  exceptions  simply  proved 
the  rule,  and  the  lack  of  English  popular  missionary 
literature  may  have  accounted,  to  some  extent,  for 
the  shortage  of  candidates. 

1899  (6)     The  Finance  Synod,  1899.     The  next  task  was 

to  meet  increasing  financial  liabilities.  By  the  close 
of  the  nineteenth   century,   the  financial   situation 


The  Work  of  the  Synods.  485 

had  become  critical,  and  the  chief  cause  of  the  crisis 
was  the  rapid  extension  of  the  work.  But  other 
causes  had  also  operated.     Let  us  note  : — 

(a)  The  chief  sources  of  income. 

(b)  The    increasing    outlay. 

(c)  The  remedy  proposed. 

(a)  The  Sources  of  Income.  Originally  the 
missionaries  worked  for  their  living ;  only  their 
travelling  expenses  were  paid  by  the  Church  ;  and 
in  Zinzendorf's  days  not  even  Church  collections 
were  permitted.  For  many  years  after  Zinzendorf's 
death  the  Brethren  relied  for  most  of  their  income  on 
various  business  firms.  In  London  there  was  the 
S.F.G.  ;  in  Surinam  the  firm  of  Kersten  &  Co. ; 
and  in  South  Africa  there  were  not  only  the  grocery, 
book-binding,  and  printing  firm  at  Genadendal,  but 
also  a  sheep  farm  at  Elim,  a  factory  at  Mamre,  and  a 
corn-mill  at  Shiloh.  For  some  years  each  of  these 
undertakings  brought  large  profits  ;  then,  for  various 
reasons,  chiefly  political  upheavals  and  changes  in 
prices,  they  fell  on  bad  times,  and  the  expenses  of  the 
newer  fields  fell  almost  entirely  on  General  Funds. 
The  other  sources  of  income  were  various.  Some  of 
the  money  came  from  collections  and  donations  in 
the  Home  Provinces ;  some,  of  course,  from  legacies ; 
and  some  from  various  Auxiliary  Societies.  Of  these 
Societies  at  least  ten  were  inside  the  Moravian  Church. 
In  England  we  find  : — 

(1)  The  S.F.G..  1741. 

(2)  The  Juvenile  Missionary  Association,  founded 

at  Ockbrook  Boys'  School,  by  Jackson  Shawe, 
the  headmaster,  1868. 

(3)  The  Mite  Association,  1883. 

In  North  America  : — 

(4)  The  S.P.G.,   1745. 


4S0        A  History  of  Moratian  Mission!. 

(5)  The   North    Carolina   S.P.G.,    1823. 

(6)  The  Alaska  Help  Society,  1886. 

In  Holland  : — 

(7)  The  Zeist  Missionary  Society,  1738. 

In  Denmark  : — 

(8)  The  North-Schleswig  Union,  for  the  Danisli 

West  Indies,  1843. 

In  Germany  and  Switzerland  : — 

(9)  The  Half-Penny  Union,  1877. 

In  Jamaica  : — 
(10)     The  Moravian  Missionary  Society,  1900. 

There  were  also  societies  outside  the  Moravian  Church. 
In  Holland  there  was  the  Hague  "  Society  for  Further- 
ance of  Christian  Knowledge  Among  Negro  Slaves  " 
(1828),  supported  largely  by  Dutch  planters ;  in 
England  there  were  Ladies'  Associations  at  London, 
Bath,  Bristol,  and  Leominster ;  and  in  Scotland 
there  were  not  only  the  Edinburgh  Association  and 
the  Glasgow  Auxiliary  (1828),  but  several  smaller 
local  societies  in  close  connection  with  Presbyterian 
Churches. 

The  most  wonderful  society,  however,  is  still  to 
be  mentioned.  As  the  Moravian  Church  had  suffered 
much  on  the  continent  through  the  ravages  of 
Napoleon,  some  London  gentlemen  established  the 
1817  "  London  Association  in  aid  of  Moravian  Missions.".. 
The  leader  and  the  first  Secretary  was  the  Rev. 
John  Bull,  an  Anglican  clergyman ;  the  Treasurer 
for  many  years  was  William  Leach  ;  and  the  first 
headquarters  were  John  Bull's  residence,  16, 
Southampton  Place,  Euston  Square.  According  to 
the  printed  rules  of  the  society,  any  person  who 
subscribed  one  guinea  per  year,  or  collected  sixpence 
a  week,  could  become  a  member  ;  no  denominational 
test  was  imposed  ;    and  among  the  earlier  members 


The  Work  of  the  Synods.  487 

we  find,  not  only  several  Anglican  Bishops,  but  Non- 
conformists like  Rowland  Hill,  philanthropists  like 
WiUiam  Wiiberforce,  and  society  ladies  like  the 
Duchess  of  Beaufort,  Lady  Walpole,  Mrs.  Noel, 
and  Mrs.  Gladstone.  The  Committee  soon  set  to 
work.  They  published  annual  reports  of  Moravian 
Missions ;  they  established  branches  all  over  the 
country  ;  and  they  pleaded  the  cause,  not  only  in 
Anglican  Churches,  but  also  among  Presbyterians, 
Independents,  Baptists,  Methodists,  and  the  Countess 
of    Huntingdon's    Connection.  From    the    first, 

however,  the  Anglicans  took  the  lead.  The  President 
was  generally  a  prominent  Churchman  ;  the  list  of 
Vice-presidents  included  the  Primate  and  several 
Bishops  and  Deans ;  the  Secretary  was  an  Anglican 
clergyman  ;  and  the  annual  sermon  was  preached  in 
a  London  Church.  Among  the  annual  preachers  the 
most  noted  were  Legh  Richmond,  Dean  Freemantle, 
H.  C.  G.  Moule  (late  Bishop  of  Durham),  J.  C.  Ryle 
(late  Bishop  of  Liverpool),  and  Prebendary 
Webb-Peploe.  For  this  Anglican  sympathy  two 
special  reasons  may  be  given.  In  the  first 
place,  some  members  of  the  C.M.S.  had  consulted 
the  Moravian  Mission  Secretary,  C.  I.  La  Trobe, 
on  certain  missionary  problems,  and  were  grateful 
for  the  information  received  ;  and,  secondly, 
some  Anglican  missionaries  had  visited  Gruenekloof 
in  South  Africa,  and  had  there  formed  a  high 
opinion  of  the  value  of  Moravian  work.  The 
Association  raised  large  sums  of  money.  In  1818 
the  sum  was  £667  2s.  7d.  During  the  first  fifty 
years  the  average  income  was  about  £5,000  ;  in  1868 
it  rose  to  £11,000  ;  from  1890  onward  it  was  over 
£7,000;  from  1895  it  was  over  £10,000;  and  in 
1902,  the  record  year,  the  total  was  £19,000.  Thus 
did  Englishmen  help  a  Church  to  which  they  them- 
selves did  not  belong. 


488        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

I      (b)     The  Increasing  Outlay.     In  1800  the  annual 

'  expense  was  only  £3,000  ;  in  1834  it  was  about 
£10,000  ;  in  1848  it  was  £80,000  ;  and  in  1898  it 
was  £83,000.  On  several  occasions  the  Church  had 
passed  through  a  crisis.  In  1750  the  Missions  were 
nearly  bankrupt,  and  Zinzendorf's  wealthy  friends 
had  to  come  to  the  rescue  ;  in  1789  the  debt  was' 
£6,000;  in  1818  it  was  nearly  £7,000;  in  1876  it 
was  £6,000,  and  in  1897  it  was  £12,000.  For 
Moravians  these  were  large  sums.  Each  time  a 
deficiency   occurred   some   special   effort   had   to   be 

/\  made  ;    no  one  knew  when  a  deficiency  might  occur  ; 
land    in    1882    Eugene    Reichel    declared    that    the 

i  j  Moravian  Church  was  living  from  hand  to  mouth. 

'  For  another  reason,  too,  the  situation  was  critical. 
The  more  rapidly  the  foreign  field  extended,  the  more 
obvious  it  became  that  the  Moravian  Church  was 
growing  "  top-heavy."t  In  Germany,  England,  and 
America  the  progress  was  slow  ;  in  the  foreign  field 
it  was  fairly  rapid.  In  the  Home  Provinces  the 
number  of  members  was  only  about  30,000  ;  in  the 
foreign  field  it  had  risen  to  90,000  ;  and  the  obvious 
conclusion  was  that,  unless  the  converts  themselves 
gave  more,  the  Home  Church  would  soon  have  a 
greater  burden  than  it  could  bear.  During  the 
last  half-century,  the  Home  Church  had  increased 
by  only  a  quarter ;  abroad  the  membership  had 
doubled,  and  the  expense  had  increased  four-fold. 
At  this  rate  breaking-point  seemed  not  far  off. 

Nor  was  even  this  the  worst.  In  another  and 
deeper  sense  the  situation  was  critical.  The  more 
the  foreign  work  developed,  the  more  it  became  known 
to  the  Christian  public  ;  the  more  it  was  known,  the 
more  highly  it  was  valued  ;  and  the  more  it  was 
valued  the  more  frequently  the  Brethren  were  asked 
to  take  up  fresh  work.     At  every  Synod  the  Mission 

fAt  the  General  SjTiod  in   1909  thii  word  was  frequently  used. 


The  Work  of  the  Synods.  489 

Board  reported  that  so  many  invitations  had  been 
received,  and  at  every  Synod  they  had  to  confess 
that  chiefly  for  lack  of  money  most  of  those  invitations 
had  been  decUned.     On  the  surface  the  record  was 
bright ;     in   reaUty   it    was    heart-breaking.     During 
the  last  fifty  years  the   Brethren   had   accepted   no 
fewer  than  ten  invitations.     At  the  request  of  Prince 
Waldenberg    they    had    gone    to    Moskito ;     of   Dr. 
Gutzlaff  to   Western   Tibet ;    of  Governor  Hutt  to 
Victoria  ;   of  the  Presbyterians  to  North  Queensland  ; 
of    Dr.    Sheldon    Jackson    to    Alaska ;     of    certain 
American  women  to  California  ;    of  Quintin  Hogg  to 
Demcrara ;    of  Mackay  of  Uganda,  to  Nyassa ;    of  the 
L.M.S.  to  Unyamwezi ;  and  of  the  Baroness  Ascheraden 
to  Jerusalem.     For  every  invitation  accepted,  how- 
ever, at  least  two  had  been  refused.     To  us  English 
readers  it  is  interesting  to  notice  that  most  of  the 
invitations    came    from     England.       In     1868     the 
Brethren  were  invited  to  Montserrat   by  a  certain 
Sturges ;     in    1869   to   Algiers,    by   Pastor   Demole ; 
in  1870  to  Chinese  Mongolia,  by  Pastor  Edkins  ;    in 
1871  to  Circassia,  by  Dr.  Wrightson,  and  to  China, 
by  the  Bishop  of  Victoria  ;    in  1872  to  Queensland, 
by  Pastor  Hausmann,  to  the  Andaman  Islands,  by 
Captain  Laughton,   and  to   Porto  Rico  by  a  local 
planter  ;    in  1873  to  San  Domingo,  by  some  one  not 
named  ;  in  1874  to  Kashgar  and  Yarkand,  by  General 
Lake  ;    in  1874  or  1875  to  Brazil,  by  the  Manager  of 
the  London  Brazilian  Bank  ;    in  1876  to  the  Argentine, 
by  a  Mrs.  or  Miss  Perrcns,  and  to  the  Congo  by  Robert 
Arthington,  of  Leeds  ;    in  1877  to  Antigua,  to  take 
charge  of  the  Mico  CharityTHby^tKe  Secretary  of  the 
_same  ;   Tn"  i878~to  Ecuador^  by  a  German  trader  ; 
in  1880  to  the  Argentine,  by  Mrs.  Von  Oppelt ;    in 
1886  to  Honduras,  by  the  English  Aborigines   Pro- 
tection   Society,     and    to     Cumberland     Inlet,    by 
certain  Scotch  friends  in  Dundee  :     in  1889  to  the 


490        A  History  ov  Moravian  Missions. 

Nicobar  Islands,  by  Charlotte  Tucker  (A.L.O.E.); 
in  1890  to  Honduras,  by  Mrs.  Pcmell,  and  to  North 
Alaska,  by  the  United  States  Government ;  in  1891 
to  British  Columbia,  by  J.  T.  Morton,  the  tea 
merchant,  and  to  Dominica,  by  the  Governor  of 
Antigua ;  in  1892  to  Hayti,  by  the  President  of  the 
Hayti  Republic;  in  1893  to  North  China,  by  the 
Secretary  of  the  American  Board  of  Commissioners 
of  Foreign  Missions  in  Boston;  in  1895  to  Peru,  by  a 
resident  named  Lamp  ;  in  1898  to  Florida,  by  a 
certain  Turner,  to  the  Argentine,  by  W.  Barnett,  and 
to  Japan,  by  a  Japanese  clergyman  ;  in  1899  to 
Malabar,  by  Gelson  Gregson  ;  in  1900  to  Fox  Channel, 
West  of  Baffin's  Land,  by  C.  J.  Peck,  of  the  C.M.S.  ; 
in  1901  to  St.  Eustace,  by  the  Governor ;  in  1902  to 
Venezuela,  by  J.  W.  Crichton ;  in  1905  to 
Johannesburg,  first  by  the  London  Medical  Mission, 
to  work  among  the  Chinese,  and  then  by  the 
South  African  General  Missionary  Conference,  to 
minister  to  Kaffirs,  to  Central  Africa,  near  Lake 
Tanganyika,  by  the  French  Missionary,  Louis  Jalla, 
and  to  the  Isle  of  Saghalin,  by  Dr.  Dalton  ;  in  1906  to 
the  South  of  Lake  Victoria  Nyanza,  by  the  C.M.S. ; 
and  in  1907  to  Kurdistan  and  Mesopotamia,  by 
Marie  Anholm,  a  Swedish  writer. 

At  the  close  of  the  century,  therefore,  the  record 
was  sad.  In  the  last  fifty  years  the  Brethren  had 
received  no  fewer  that  thirty-five  invitations  ;  and 
twenty-five  of  the  number  had  been  declined.  And 
in  nearly  every  case  the  reason  was  lack  of  money. 

Meanwhile,  another  financial  embarrassment  had 
occurred.  For  some  years  the  Brethren  had  been 
generously  treated  by  the  great  English  tea  merchant, 
J.  T.  Morton,  and  then,  in  his  will,  he  left  the  Brethren 
about  £250,000.  In  the  eyes  of  the  public  this  was  a 
great  boon.  In  reality  it  added  fresh  burdens. 
As  the  money  was  doled  out  only  in  instalments, 


Thb  Work  of  the  Synods.  491 

to  be  spent  in  founding  and  maintaining  new  stations, 
tli£_Ch.urch,  by  accepting  the  gift,  simply  increased 
her  liabilities. 

(c)  The  Proposed  Remedy.  The  situation,  there- 
fore, seemed  almost  desperate.  In  the  past  the 
Moravian  Church  had  lived  from  hand  to  mouth; 
now  more  businesslike  methods  were  demanded ; 
and  the  Synod  passed  the  following  resolutions  : — 

(1)  That  a  Finance  Committee  be  appointed  to 

assist  the  Mission  Board. 

(2)  That  an  annual  Budget  be  issued,  so  that  the 

Church    might    know   beforehand   what,   if 
any,   deficiencies  might  be  expected. 

(3)  That   capable   business-men   be  appointed  to 

manage  the  business  concerns  in  the  mission 
fields. 

(4)  That  the  Morton  money  be  used,  not  to  open 

new  fields,  but  only  to  build  new  stations. 

(5)  And    that    the    annual    contribution    to    the  ., 

West  Indies  be  limited  to  a  definite  amount. 

The  new  pohcy  had  little  success.  At  bottom  the 
real  question  was,  not  merely  whether  the  income 
could  be  increased,  but  whether  it  could  increase 
more  rapidly  than  the  expenditure ;  and  during  the 
next  ten  years  the  expenditure  was  greater  then 
ever.  The  result  was  a  constant  struggle.  In  every 
annual  statement  but  one,  the  Mission  Board  had 
to  report  a  deficiency.  In  1902  the  deficiency 
was  over  £8,000  ;  in  1907  it  was  £12,000  ;  and  in 
1908  it  was  £20,000.  Can  an}i:hing  be  done,  it 
was  asked,  to  cause  such  deficiencies  to  cease  ?  The 
next  Synod  suggested  an  answer. 

(7)     The   Native  Church  Synod,    1909.     The   last      1909 
task  was  the  hardest  of  all.     At  a  General  Mission 


\  \ 


492        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Conference  in  East  Central  Africa  (1901),  attended  by 
representatives  of  six  missionary  societies — the 
Scotch  Church,  the  Livingstonian  Mission,  the  L.M.S., 
the  Zambezi  Industrial,  the  First  Berlin,  and  the 
Moravian  Church — great  stress  had  been  laid  on  the 
idea  that  Africa  must  be  evangelized  by  Africans  ; 
with  this  conception  some  Moravians  sympathized ; 
and  thus  the  idea  of  Native  Provinces  now  began  to 
take  definite  form.  Let  us  not,  however,  regard 
this  conception  as  entirely  new.  For  sixty-one 
years  (1848-1909)  the  Moravian  Church  had  cherished 
similar  ideals.  As  soon  as  the  Brethren  entered  on 
the  Modern  Advance,  they  conceived  the  idea  of 
Native  Provinces.  In  1848  the  General  Synod 
declared  that,  if  possible,  each  Province  should  have 
its  Native  Ministry ;  in  1857  that  more  Native 
Assistants  should  be  trained  ;  in  1869  that  all  con- 
gregations should  be  "  self-sustaining  and  served  by 
their  own  native  labourers  "  ;  and  in  1879  that  the 
failure  of  previous  efforts  should  not  cause  discourage- 
ment. But  the  most  important  step  in  this  direction 
had  been  taken  by  the  1899  Synod.  At  this  Synod  a 
resolution  was  passed  that  each  of  the  two  West 
Indian  Provinces  should  be  placed,  constitutionally, 
in  the  same  position  as  the  Home  Provinces.  Each, 
i.e.,  should  have  its  own  Provincial  Synod,  consisting 
partly  of  ex-officio  members  and  partly  of  delegates 
elected  by  the  congregation  councils  ;  each  should 
have  its  own  Governing  Board  ;  and  each  Board 
should  be  empowered  to  send  two  delegates  to  a 
General  Synod.  In  one  sense  only  were  the  West 
Indian  Provinces  not  quite  as  independent  as  the 
Home  Provinces.  As  the  West  Indian  Provinces 
still  received  financial  aid  from  the  Mission  Board, 
the  Board  still  reserved  the  right  to  veto  their 
decisions.  Thus  did  the  1899  Synod  nearly,  though 
not  quite,  establish  two  Native  Provinces  in  the  West 


The  Work  of  the  Synods.  498 

Indies  ;  and  the  hope  was  expressed  that  similar 
arrangements  might  soon  be  made  in  Surinam  and 
South  Africa. 

In  what  sense,  then,  and  to  what  extent,  was  the 
Native  Church  idea,  now  propounded  by  the  Mission 
Board,  a  new  one  ?  What  precisely,  at  this  Synod, 
was  meant  by  the  phrase  "  Native  Church "  ? 
Did  the  advocates  of  this  ideal  mean  that,  at  some 
time,  South  Africa  and  Surinam  should,  like  the  two 
West  Indian  Provinces,  be  self-governing  Provinces 
belonging  to  the  Moravian  Church,  using  Moravian 
forms  of  worship,  and  sending  delegates  to  a  General 
Synod  ?  No.  By  the  term  Native  Church  they  | 
meant  an  entirely  independent  National  Church. 
Such  a  Church  would  be  self-propagating,  self- 
supporting,  and  self-governing ;  such  a  Church 
would  provide  its  own  ministry,  raise  its  own  funds, 
make  its  own  laws,  and  determine  its  own  forms 
of  worship  ;  such  a  Church,  in  a  word,  would  be 
entirely  independent ;  and  over  such  a  Church  neither 
the  Moravian  nor  any  other  denomination  would  have 
the  least  authority. 

During  the  next  five  years,  however,  the  Native 
Church  idea  was  merely  a  dream.  In  the  West 
Indies  it  was  sternly  rejected.  In  South  Africa, 
Surinam,  and  East  Central  Africa  only  certain  pre- 
liminary steps  were  taken  ;  conferences,  attended  by 
the  native  del^ates,  met  to  discuss  the  question ; 
and  thus,  when  the  Great  War  began,  the  problem 
was  still  unsolved. 

Summary  Statement. 

Such,  then,  was  the  work  accomplished  by  these 
seven  General   Sjiiods.     They  had 

(1)     Conceived    the    idea    of   self -supporting    pro-      1848 

vinces,  so  that  men  and  money  might  be 

released  for  new  work 


494        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

1857  (2)     Authorised  the  missionaries  to  meet  in  con- 

ference, prepare  resolutions  for  a  General 
Synod,  and  send  voting  members. 

1869  (8)     Established    a    Mission    College. 

1879  (4)     Endeavoured  to  make  the  West  Indies  self- 

supporting. 

1889  (5)     Arranged    for    the    publication    of    popular 

literature. 

1899  (6)     Introduced  the  idea  of  financial  budgets. 

1909  (7)     Made    plans    for    the    formation    of    Native 

Churches. 


Chapter  III. 

THE    SYNOD    OF    1914;     OR,    MORAVIAN 

MISSIONARY  IDEALS. 

At  the  General  SjTiod  in  1909  a  resolution  was 
passed  that,  as  the  Foreign  Missions  were  in  a  critical 
state — so  critical  that  retrenchments  were  ordered — 
the  next  General  Synod  should  meet,  not  after  the 
usual  ten  years'  interval,  but  in  the  Summer  of  1914  ; 
this  resolution  was  carried  into  effect,  and  the 
interesting  feature  of  this  last  Sjmod  was  that, 
while  the  Brethren  dealt  with  some  practical  problems, 
they  also  seized  their  opportunity  to  re-assert 
their  undying  faith  in  certain  old  Moravian  Christian 
ideals.  Never  did  a  General  Svnod  meet  at  a  more 
fateful  epoch  in  world  history.  The  time  was  one  of 
calm  before  the  storm.  The  opening  ser\dce  was 
held  on  May  13th ;  on  June  13th  the  members 
parted  ;  and  only  fifteen  days  later,  Sunday,  June 
28th,  the  Archduke  Ferdinand  was  murdered.  Let 
us  now  glance  briefly  at  the  latest  Moravian 
Missionary  manifesto. 

(1)  The  Evangelistic  Ideal.  For  twenty-five  years 
the  English  member  of  the  Mission  Board  had  been 
Bishop  Benjamin  La  Trobe,  formerly  known  to 
English  Moravians  as  Editor  of  "  Periodical 
Accounts "  ;  at  this  Synod  he  gave  the  opening 
address,  and  taking  as  his  text  the  words  which  had 
thrilled  Leonard  Dober  in  the  golden  days  :  "  //  is 
not  a  zain  thing  for  you,  because  it  is  your  life " 
(Deut.  XXXII.,  47),  Bishop  La  Trobe  made  bold  to 
assert  that,  in  spite  of  increasing  deficiencies,  not  a 
single  mission  field  need  be  abandoned.  In  the  past, 
he  declared,  God  had  ever  come  to  the  Brethren's 

(499) 


496        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

aid ;  let  the  Brethren,  therefore,  advance  and  trust ; 
and  following  the  Bishop's  lead,  the  members  of  the 
Synod  sang  the  old  pre-reformation  hymn  : — 

The  Lord  is  never  far  away, 

But,  through  all  grief  distressing. 

An  ever  present  help  and  stay, 
Our  peace,  and  joy,  and  blessing  ; 

As  with  a  mother's  tender  hand, 

He  leads  His  own,  His  chosen  band  ; 

To  God  all  praise  and  glory,  f 

But  now  came  the  great  question.  Was  this 
optimistic  faith  quite  justified  ?  Could  the  Church 
still  dare  to  advance,  trusting  in  the  Lord  God  to 
provide  the  means  ?  At  first  sight  stern  fact  seemed 
to  teach  the  very  opposite.  According  to  the  explicit 
statement  of  the  Mission  Board,  the  years  1907-12 
were  the  most  critical  years  in  the  whole  history 
of  Moravian  Missions.  During  these  five  years  the 
total  deficiencies  had  actually  risen  to  £61,633. 
In  1907  the  deficiency  was  £12,000  ;  in  1908,  £15,100  ; 
in  1909,  £10,850  ;  in  1910,  £10,248  ;  in  1911,  £6,207  ; 
in  1912,  £6,248  ;  and  in  1913,  £4,173.  Nor  was  this 
long  list  of  deficiencies  the  most  serious  feature  of 
the  case.  In  vain,  during  the  last  five  years,  had 
the  Mission  Board,  acting  according  to  the  instructions 
of  the  1909  Synod,  pursued  a  policy  of  retrenchment. 
In  vain  had  they  redviccd  the  staff  of  missionaries  in 
the  West  Indies,  Nicaragua,  South  Africa,  Labrador, 
East  Central  Africa,  and  Tibet ;  the  more  the  Mission 
Board  endeavoured  to  retrench,  the  more  expenses 
seemed  to  increase ;  and  now  the  Mission  Board 
announced  that  by  the  close  of  1914  there  would 
probably  be  another  deficiency  of  over  £10,000. 
What  lesson,  however,  it  was  asked,  was  really  taught 
by  the  foregoing  figures  ?     Was  it  really  a  lesson  of 

fFor  the  whole  hymn  see  Moravian  Hymn  Book,  No.  530. 


The  Synod  of  1914.  497 

despair  ?  Did  the  deficiencies  necessitate  still  further 
retrenchment  ?  On  the  contrary.  Each  time  a 
serious  deficiency  had  occurred,  God  had  touched  the 
hearts  of  generous  men  ;  and,  during  the  five  most 
critical  years,  the  £61,000  required  had  been  sub- 
scribed. Nor  was  tliis  the  only  cause  of  encourage- 
ment. Had  not  certain  Moravians  recently  formed 
the  "  Unyamwezi  League "  to  save  Unyamwezi 
from  being  handed  over  to  the  Herrmansburg 
Missionary  Society  ?  Had  not  others  just  formed 
a  "  League  of  Help  "  ?  And  did  not  others,  while 
Synod  was  sitting,  form  the  "  Young  People's 
Missionary  League  "  ?  In  the  Mission  Pro^  inces,  also, 
there  were  signs  of  renewed  activity.  In  Nyassa 
steps  had  been  taken  towards  the  formation  of  a 
Native  Church ;  in  Unyamwezi  new  work  had  just 
been  begun  among  the  Mahometans  ;  in  Labrador 
the  Eskimos  had  begun  to  subscribe  more  liberally 
to  Church  funds  ;  in  Nicaragua  the  Government  had 
just  granted  full  religious  liberty ;  in  Alaska  the 
missionaries  had  just  built  a  new  station,  Akiak ; 
in  California  WilMam  Weinland  was  expecting  the 
speedy  solution  of  the  land  problem  ;  and  in  Tibet 
a  member  of  the  C.M.S  had  just  written  to  inform  the 
Mission  Board  that  if  the  Moravians  did  not  advance 
their  reputation  as  a  Missionary  Church  was  at  stake. 
Inside  the  Moravian  Church,  therefore,  there  were 
now  renewed  hberality  and  enthusiasm ;  Foreign 
Missions  were  once  more  recognised  as  the  work  of  the 
whole  Church;  and,  thus  encouraged,  the  General 
Synod  decided  that,  as  in  the  days  of  Zinzendorf, 
the  Moravian  Church  was  still  called  to  proclaim  the 
Saviour  to  the  world. 

(2)  The  International  Ideal.  Among  the  features 
of  European  historj^  during  the  nineteenth  century 
the  most  significant  was  what  historians  call  the 
"  Rise  of  Nationalities  "  ;    this  growth  in  national 

2K 


498        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

feeling  led  to  rivalry  ;  and  knowing  how  this,  in 
turn,  might  lead  to  war,  the  Moravians  now  laid 
special  stress  on  the  international  character  of  their 
Church.  In  the  political  world  the  ideal  seemed  to 
be  international  competition ;  in  the  Christian  it 
should  be  international  co-operation ;  and  this 
international  co-operation  had  always  been  a  marked 
feature  of  the  Moravian  Church.  Let  us  note  pre- 
cisely how  this   ideal  was  carried  out  in  practice. 

(a)     First,    the    Moravian    missionaries    had    long 
worked,    and    were    still    working,    under 
various  Governments  ;   most  of  the  mission 
stations   were   in   colonies ;     and   in   every 
colony  the  missionaries,   co-operating  with 
the  Government,  had  taught  the  people  to 
be  loyal  to  the  country  to  which  that  colony 
belonged.     On  this  point  the  standard  tale 
was    that    of   Bishop    Spangenberg    in    St. 
Thomas.     "  Have   you   seen   my   castle  ?  " 
said  the  Governor  to  the  Bishop,  pointing 
to   the   Brethren's   plantation.     "  There   it 
is.     There  is  the  cause  of  our   safety    on 
this    island.     If  that   plantation    were   not 
there,  I  dare  not  sleep  a  night  outside  the 
fort."     Nor  was  St.  Thomas  an  exceptional 
case.     According  to  Zinzendorf  himself,  one 
of  the  chief  duties  of  a  missionary  was  to 
teach  the  converts  to  be  loyal  to  the  Govern- 
ment ;     and    that    duty    had    alwaj^s    been 
faithfully     performed.       In    Pennsylvania, 
Bishop    Spangenberg,    acting    as    a    British 
citizen,    had    loyally    defended    Bethlehem 
against    the    attacks    of    French    Indians. 
In  Labrador  the  Red  Ensign  flew  above  the 
Mission   House,    and   the   Eskimos   sent   a 
loyal    address    to    King    Edward    VII.     In 
Jamaica   the   Moravian   converts   defended 


The  Synod  of  1914.  499 

their  masters'  property  against  the  rebels. 
In  the  Danish  West  Indies  se^  eral  Governors 
had    extolled    the    converts'    loyalty.     In 
Surinam  the  missionaries  had  even  taught 
the  fierce  Bush  Negroes   to   be  loyal.     In 
South    Africa    Moiavian    Hottentots    had 
fought  under  British  generals  against  Kaffir 
rebels ;   and  later,  during  the  Boer  War,  Kaffir 
converts — among  them  two  of  Zibi's  sons — 
had  enlisted  in  the  British  Army.  In  Victoria, 
Hagenauer  was  made  an  official  Government 
Inspector,    and   had   taught   the    Papus   to 
sing  the  National  Anthem  and  shout  "Three 
cheers    for    Queen    Victoria."      In    North 
Queensland,   Nicholas   Hey   was   appointed 
manager  of  the  Nati\'e  Reserve.     In  Moskito, 
Mora^'ian  Missionaries  had  acted  as  collectors 
of  taxes  ;  in  Alaska  they  helped  the  Govern- 
ment to  take  the  census  and  foster  the  rein- 
deer industry  ;   and  in  Tibet,  at  the  Govern- 
ment's   request,    they    taught    the    people 
farming.     For  all  such  services  as  these  the 
missionaries  had  often  been  highly  praised. 
Sir   William  MacGregor  had  praised  them 
both  in  Labrador  and  in  North  Queensland, 
Sir  George  Grey  in  South  Africa,  Sir  Horace 
Tozer  in  North  Queensland,  George  Washmg- 
ton  in  North  America,  and  Danish  officials 
in  Greenland.     On  the  other  hand  various 
governments  had  also  aided  the  missionaries. 
In  South  Africa  and  Labrador  the  British 
Government    had    granted   tracts    of   land, 
and  in  the  British  ^Vcst  Indies  it  had  aided 
day-schools.     The  Dutch  Government  liad 
given  free  passages,   and  aided  the  Leper 
work  in  Surinam  ;    the  Danish  had   aided 
schools  in  the  West  Indies,  and  encouiaged 


500        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

industry  in  Greenland ;  and  the  U.S.A. 
had  introduced  reindeer  in  Alaska. 

(b)  Secondly,    the    missionaries    themselves    had 

come,  and  still  came,  from  different 
nationalities.  At  the  time  when  this  Synod 
assembled  men  differing  from  each  other  in 
blood  were  working  loyally  side  by  side  in 
several  mission  fields,  and  in  the  past  nine 
different  nations  had  produced  distinguished 
missionaries.  Frederick  Martin  was  a 
Silesian ;  James  Ward,  English ;  Marc 
Richard,  Swiss ;  Hans  Peter  Hallbcck,  a 
Swede ;  Henry  Marsveld,  a  Dutchman ; 
Jens  Haven,  a  Dane  ;  William  Weinland, 
an  American  ;  John  Kilbuck,  a  Red  Indian  ; 
John  Dingwall,  a  Negro.  In  1900  an 
estimate  was  made  that  the  total  number  of 
missionaries  sent  out  by  the  Moravian 
Church  since  1732  was  1,473  ;  and  the  full 
list  includes,  besides  men  from  ^'arious  parts 
of  Germany,  twenty-eight  Irishmen,  one 
Scot,  one  Frenchman,  twenty-nine  Russians, 
ten  Norwegians,  forty-t)^^o  Czechs,  one 
Hungarian,  two  Maltese,  and  one  Austrian. 
Thus,  not  counting  native  assistants, 
Moravian  missionaries  came  from  eighteen 
different  nations. 

(c)  Thirdly,  these  missionaries  preached  to  many 

different  nations.  In  spite  of  its  smallness, 
the  Moravian  Church  had  long  been  one 
of  the  most  cosmopolitan.  At  a  children's 
Christmas  service  at  Zeist,  in  Holland,  six 
men  sang  six  solos  in  six  different  languages, 
and  at  a  service  at  Herrnhaag,  in  the 
j  Wetterau,  John  Cennick,  in  174C,  had  heard 
a  hymn  sung  in  twenty-two  languages  ;   and 


The  Synod  of  1914.  501 

the  number  of  languages  now  spoken  in  the 
Church  is  said  to  be  thirty-two.  From  such 
facts  as  these  one  sound  conclusion  could 
be  drawn.  In  the  Moravian  Church 
different  nations  had  learned  to  co-operate 
with  each  other  for  the  sake  of  the  Kingdom 
of  God  ;  that  was  the  true  international 
ideal ;  and  the  Brethren  now  passed  a 
resolution  that  they,  according  to  their 
ability,  would  do  their  utmost  to  maintain 
international   peace   and   goodwill. 

(3)  The  Church  Co-operotion  Ideal.  At  the  World 
Missionary  Conference  held  in  Edinburgh  in  1910, 
to  which  the  IMoravian  Church  sent  several  delegates, 
great  stress  had  been  laid  on  the  need  for  more 
co-operation  between  different  churches  in  the  foreign 
field  ;  soon  afterwards  Bishop  E.  R.  Hass6,f  a  pro- 
minent English  Moravian,  read  a  paper  on  this  topic 
before  the  Eastern  Counties  Clerical  Association  ; 
and  the  same  topic  was  also  discussed  at  a  General 
Missionary  Conference  in  South  Africa.  With  this 
ideal  the  Moravians  had  always  been  in  full  sympathy. 
At  the  outset  Zinzendorf  had  warned  the  Brethren 
that  they  must  never  quarrel  with  other  Churches  ; 
and  in  every  mission  field  the  missionaries 
endeavoured  to  conform  to  those  instructions.  As  the 
Brethren  had  no  distinctive  creed,  they  had  generally 
been  able  to  live  on  good  terms  with  Anglicans, 
Methodists,  Lutherans,  and  other  Protestants  ;  and 
even  when  they  opposed  the  Greek  and  Roman 
Churches,  they  did  so,  not  so  much  on  dogmatic 
grounds,  but  because  the  priests  of  those  Churches 
sometimes  set  a  lower  moral  standard  before  the 
people.     Already,   also,    a    few    examples    of    inter- 

fAathor  of  "  The  Moravians,"  "  Life  of  Count  Zinzendorf,"  and 
article  on  the  Moravians  in  Hastings'  "  Encyclopeedia  of 
Religion  and  Ethics." 


502        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

denominational  co-opcration  had  occurred.  In 
Australia,  as  we  have  seen,  the  Brethren  had  co- 
operated with  the  Presbyterians  ;  in  St.  Thomas  they 
joined  with  Anglicans,  Wesley ans,  Lutherans,  and  the 
Danish  and  Dutch  Reformed  Churches,  in  founding  a 
Temperance  League  ;  in  Surinam  they  joined  with 
Lutherans  and  the  Dutch  Reformed  Church  in  work 
among  the  Lepers  ;  in  South  Africa  they  trained 
candidates  at  Genadendal  for  service  in  other 
churches  ;  and  in  Unyamwezi  they  combined,  first 
with  the  Berlin  Society  in  the  translation  of  the  New 
Testament  and  the  publication  of  a  Hymn  Book, 
then  with  several  other  societies  in  the  publication 
of  a  Magazine,  "  Coast  and  Inland,"  and  then  both 
with  the  C.M.S.  and  the  Berlin  Mission  in  the  estab- 
lishment of  a  college  for  native  evangelists.  With 
such  examples  as  these,  however,  the  Brethren  were 
not  content ;  and  now  they  passed  a  resolution  that, 
both  in  the  Home  Provinces  and  in  the  mission 
fields,  all  opportunities  for  Church  fellowship,  for 
common  work,  and  for  firmer  alliance  and  unity, 
should  receive  sympathetic  consideration. 

Thus  did  the  Brethren,  at  their  General  Synod — 
only  seven  weeks  before  the  Great  War  began — re- 
assert their  faith  in  three  inspiring  missionary  ideals, 
and  one  of  the  problems  set  by  the  conflict  was  how 
far,  and  by  what  methods,  those  ideals  could  be 
realised. 


EPILOGUE. 


By  Bishop  Arthur  Ward, 
British  Member  of  the  Mission  Board. 


The  General  S\Tiod  of  the  Church  that  met  at 
Herrnhut  in  191-4  had  scarcely  ended  when  the 
Crown  Prince  of  Austria  was  murdered  at  Serajevo, 
and  rumours  of  war  began.  The  delegates  had  not 
all  reached  home  when  the  Great  War  broke  out, 
which  was  to  change  not  only  the  map  of  the  world, 
but  its  outlook,  and  consequently  the  views  of 
Governments  regarding  Foreign  Missions. 

It  was  well  for  Moravian  Missions  that  the  con- 
stitution of  the  Church  was  elastic,  and  that  a  certain 
degree  of  self-government  had  been  introduced  into 
almost  all  the  Provinces,  for  central  control 
ceased  immediately.  The  Governing  Boards  of  the 
Church  in  those  countries  which  formed  the  Home 
Base  had  to  consider  how  each  individually  could 
best  ensure  the  continuance  of  the  work,  for  concerted 
action  was  out  of  the  question.  America  at  first 
was  neutral,  but  when  she  took  up  arms,  correspond- 
ence between  her  and  the  enemy  countries  ceased 
absolutely.  Britain,  after  a  vain  attempt  to  avert  the 
attack  on  Belgium,  declared  war  on  the  invader,  but 
correspondence  with  enemy  countries  was  permitted 
through  neutral  countries,  provided  the  letters  were 
sent  unsealed  and  did  not  deal  with  finance.  The 
Continental  Province  was  a  house  divided  against 
itself,  for,  while  Germany  was  at  war  with  Britain 
and  America,  and  Czecho-Slovakia  was  dragged  in 
on  her  side  as  a  part  of  the  Austrian  Empire,  Russia, 
dncluding  Poland  and  the  Baltic  States,  was  against 

(505) 


504        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

her,  and  the  rest  of  the  countries  included  in  the 
Province  were  neutral.  The  Central  Mission  Board 
could  only  ask  the  Provincial  Mission  Boards  to  act 
for  it  in  all  cases  in  which  it  could  not  act  for 
itself,  and  wait  patiently  to  see  how  God  would 
guide  the  ark  through  the  storm. 

The  first  problems  that  had  to  be  faced  were 
administrative  and  financial.  The  former  were 
simplified  by  subsequent  events.  The  American 
member  of  the  Board,  having  completed  a  visitation 
in  Nicaragua,  went  home  to  the  States  and  gave  his 
support  to  the  Committee  of  the  Society  for  the 
Propagation  of  the  Gospel. f  The  British  member, 
having  gone  through  all  the  formalities  connected 
with  the  constitution  of  the  newly-elected  Board  in 
1914,  returned  home,  and,  after  the  death  of  his 
predecessor,  acted  in  consultation  with  the  British 
Provincial  Mission  Board. 

The  partition  of  the  foreign  fields  among  the 
Home  Provinces  followed  inevitable  lines.  Alaska 
and  California  had  been  managed  by  America  for  a 
long  time,  so  that  the  war  made  no  change  in  their 
case.  Now  Nicaragua  naturally  passed  under  her 
care.  Germany  retained  the  administration  of 
Surinam.  East  Africa  was  completely  isolated,  and 
the  Home  Church  received  no  word  of  it.  Jerusalem, 
cut  off  from  Britain  by  the  entry  of  Turkey  into  the 
war,  was  maintained  by  Germany,  until  the  conquest 
of  Palestine  threw  it  into  the  British  sphere.  The 
West  Indies,  already  possessing  Governing  Boards 
and  Synods,  quietly  assumed  the  final  prerogative 
of  autonomy.  All  the  rest  of  the  mission  fields 
were  dependent  on  London,  being  in  British 
colonies. 

The  new  financial  administration  had  also  had  the 


fThe  American   Moravian    Missionary    Society,  organized    1745, 
incorporated  1788. 


Epilogue.  605 

way  paved  for  it  by  custom.  The  agencies  in 
England  and  America  simply  continued  to  disburse 
as  before  the  money  entrusted  to  them.  The  only 
difference  was  that  each  accounted  to  its  own 
Provincial  Mission  Board  and  its  auditors  instead 
of  to  the  Central  Board.  They  suffered,  however, 
from  the  disadvantage  that  almost  all  the  Mission 
endowments  were  invested  in  Germany,  so 
that  the  interest  was  not  available  for  any  field 
except  Surinam,  and,  when  the  collapse  of  the  German 
exchange  turned  the  value  of  the  mark  into  less  than 
a  farthing,  was  useless  even  for  that  field.  But  in 
all  these  perplexities  one  could  not  but  admire  the 
steadfastness  and  fortitude  of  the  Church  and  its 
missionaries,  and  attach  new  value  to  the  fact  that  its 
litany  contains  the  prayer  to  be  saved  from  "  need- 
less perplexity." 

Such  a  frame  of  mind  was  especially  needed  in 
facing  the  problem  how  to  man  the  field,  if  the  average 
losses  through  death  and  infirmity  occurred  ;  for  the 
colleges  were  empty,  and  those  who  should  have 
gone  out  year  by  year  to  fill  the  gaps  were  scattered 
over  the  battle-line  that  stretched  from  the 
Orkneys  to  Mesopotamia,  while  some  of  the  men 
in  the  mission  field  were  interned  or  repatriated. 
In  the  providence  of  God  the  losses  through  death, 
age,  and  infirmity  were  small  in  those  years.  Few 
took  furlough.  Some  cheerfully  did  the  work  of  two 
men,  as  well  as  they  could,  lest  the  cause  of  Christ 
should  suffer  loss. 

In  North  Queensland  the  work  of  a  generation 
came  to  its  logical  conclusion.  A  heathen  camp 
had  become  a  Christian  village.  Two  other  stations 
had  sprung  from  it,  which,  though  they  had  not 
developed  in  the  same  way,  were  as  lights  in  a  dark 
night.  Its  social  system  had  been  moulded  in  such  a 
way  as  to  retain  all  that  was  best,  while  introducing, 


506        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

gradually  and  wisely,  such  changes  as  are  necessary 
when  men  pass  from  the  life  of  the  roaming  savage  to 
the  ordered  home  of  the  Christian  citizen.     It  had 
an  out-station,  where  the  experiment  of  settling  picked 
men  as  small  farmers  was  crowned  with  success.    At 
last,  however,  when  the  pioneers  who  had  created  all 
this  were  worn  out,  the  next  step  had  to  be  decided. 
Mrs.  Ward  retired  in  1918,  and  her  place  was  taken 
for  a  year  by  her  niece.     The  special  task  of  the  last 
year  was  the  building  of  a  hospital  with  two  wards — 
for  men  and  women.     There  was  not  quite  time  to 
erect  the  matron's  room,  but  the  timber  was  pre- 
pared.    The  matron  was  Maud,  a  half-caste,  who  had 
been   educated   at   the   station   and   had   become   a 
gifted   helper.     In    October,    1919,    the    Heys    left 
Mapoon,  and  this  field  ceased  to  be  a  Foreign  Mission 
of  the  Moravian  Church,  and  became  a  Home  Mission 
of  the  Presbyterian  Church  of  Australia,  which  had 
been   from   the   first   the   financial   partner    in    the 
enterprise.       It    is    seldom    that    a    man    is    able 
to    look    back    upon    such    a    definite    creation,    as 
the   result   of  his    life's    work,  as  that  which  Hey 
resigned    into    the    hands    of   his    successor.      His 
name  will  live   together   with  the    names    of    those 
great     missionaries,     who     not     only    served    their 
generation    according    to    the    will     of    God,     but 
also     established     or     maintained     the    reputation 
of   the   Moravian   Church   as   the   possessor  of  this 
grace,    to    preach    unto    Gentiles    the    unsearchable 
riches  of  Christ. 

The  Mission  in  Tibet  was  hard  hit  by 
the  war,  for  remote  as  the  stations  are,  and 
inaccessible  at  times,  yet,  lying  on  three  of 
the  roads  from  India  to  Central  Asia,  they 
were  not  negligible  at  such  a  time,  even 
in  so  vast  an  Empire.  The  British  Government 
removed  all  German  missionarie*  from  the  Tibeta» 


Epilogue.  507 

stations  and  repatriated  them.f  Those  who  were 
left  did  their  best ;  but  when  the  war  was  over,  and 
furloughs  became  due,  and  overdue,  it  was  clear  that 
unless  a  native  ministry  could  be  founded,  it  would 
scarcely  be  possible  to  maintain  the  field.  The  train- 
ing of  natives  for  the  ministry  had  often  been  talked 
of,  and  at  one  time  an  attempt  had  been  made  to 
establish  a  training-school,  but  it  had  been  abandoned. 
Just  when  the  need  was  greatest,  two  men,  recom- 
mended by  the  missionaries,  and  accepted  by  the 
native  church,  who  had  gathered  experience  as 
teachers  and  evangelists,  were  ordained  in  1920,  the 
first-fruits  of  the  Tibetan  ministry.  One  of  them, 
a  man  of  considerable  ability  and  with  a  notable 
history,  was  placed  in  full  charge  of  Kyelang,  with  a 
native  committee  to  advise  him.  The  withdrawal  of 
the  C.M.S.  and  Salvation  Army  workers  from  the  Kulu 
and  Sutlej  Valleys  has  left  men  in  Kyelang  and 
Poo  more  isolated  than  ever.  In  the  Indus  Valley 
the  C.M.S.  Mission  in  Srinagar,  though  it  is  200  miles 
away  from  our  nearest  station,  and  on  the  other  side 
of  the  mountain  passes,  gives  a  certain  support, 
and  does  much  to  relieve  the  feeling  of  loneliness. 

The  Leper  Home  in  Jerusalem,  being  a  pure  work 
of  mercy,  was  able  to  continue  its  work  unhindered, 
whatever  power  held  the  country.  The  partition 
of  the  Ottoman  dominions  east  of  the  Mediterranean 
among  Arabs,  French,  and  English,  has  created 
frontiers  where  none  used  to  exist,  and  makes  inter- 
communication more  difficult  ;  but  even  apart  from 
this  the  signs  all  point  to  the  possibility  that  the 
segregation  of  so  many  lepers  in  the  home  for  nearly 
two  generations  has  decreased  the  number  in  the 
land.     For  several  years  fewer  have  been  heard  of, 

tWlien  it  was  found  that  men  who  were  repatriated  wer»  mad«  qs« 
of  in  one  way  or  another  in  connexiom  with  the  war,  th« 
British  GoT«mnieHt  began  to  intern. 


508        A  History  of  Moraa^ian  Missions. 

and  the  numbers,  both  in  our  Home  and  in  the 
Shelter  at  Siloah,  have  diminished.  This,  also,  is 
something  that  was  to  be  expected.  The  cure  of 
one  patient  leads  to  the  hope  that  in  time  medicine 
may  come  successfully  to  the  aid  of  common  sense. 
Meanwhile,  both  the  patients  and  those  who  tend 
them  live  in  hope. 

In  East  Africa  the  war  surged  backwards  and  for- 
wards for  four  years,  and  men  of  many  races  passed 
through  it.  When  peace  came,  all  our  missionaries 
in  Unyamwezi  except  two  had  been  repatriated, 
though  some  of  them  were  Danes ;  those  in  Nyassa  had 
been  interned.  The  United  Free  Church  of  Scot- 
land kindly  undertook  the  care  of  Nyassa  until 
Moravian  missionaries  can  man  the  field  again. 
When  permission  was  given  to  recommence  work 
in  Unyamwezi,  only  Gaarde,  a  Dane,  was  left.  Delay 
in  settling  the  terms  of  the  mandate,  and  arranging  the 
boundary  between  Congo  and  Tanganyika,  delayed 
the  sending  of  reinforcements,  and  as  time  passed, 
financial  perplexities  grew,  until  prudence  seemed  to 
forbid  what  duty  seemed  to  demand.  Considering 
the  determined  opposition  of  Mahometanism,  and 
the  passive  resistance  and  incessant  temptations  of 
heathenism,  the  faithfulness  of  so  many  of  the 
Christian  converts,  mere  babes  in  Christ,  is  matter 
for  thankfulness  mingled  with  wonder.  The  medical 
missionary  and  the  nurse  will  be  much  needed  in 
this  land  for  many  years. 

Thanks  to  the  high  prices  of  all  South  African 
products,  Kaffraria  paid  its  way  but  for  one  re- 
mittance, and  the  Western  Province  required  no 
help.  Both  had  sufficient  constitutional  authority 
to  manage  their  own  affairs,  as  long  as  these  followed 
the  usual  routine.  Trouble  began  when  the  legis- 
lation of  the  South  African  Government,  consisting 
of  a  sweeping  law  of  confiscation  and  a  series   of 


Epilogue.  509 

proclamations,  some  of  which  were  mutually  con- 
tradictory, brought  about  an  unprecedented  situation. 
Happily,  the  Government  finally  interpreted  its 
legislation  in  such  a  way  as  to  give  to  the  Church  in 
South  Africa,  free  of  cost,  a  body  of  trustees 
appointed  by  itself.  A  revision  of  the  constitution 
of  the  Western  Province  having  become  necessary, 
this  was  drawn  up  so  as  to  give  greater  self- 
government  and  prepare  the  way  for  the  complete 
autonomy  which  must  come  with  the  creation  of  a 
Native  Church,  whether  it  chooses  to  remain  a  part 
of  the  i\Iother  Church,  or  to  go  its  own  way.  When 
the  re-organization  was  completed,  those  Provinces 
reverted  to  the  supervision  of  the  German  part  of  the 
Supreme  Board,  since  the  family  interests  of  most  of 
the  missionaries  centred  there. 

The  Moravian  Church  in  the  West  Indies  is  divided 
into  two  parts  :  Jamaica  standing  by  itself,  and  the 
rest  of  the  Islands  being  grouped  together.  As  the 
white  missionaries  have  become  fewer,  work  has 
become  more  strenuous  for  those  who  remain.  Nor 
is  it  always  easy  to  arrange  things  for  the  best  in 
islands  that  belong  to  three  different  states,t  and  all 
such  diflficulties  were  naturally  increased  when 
political  and  financial  obstacles  were  added  to 
those  already  created  by  distance,  Obeah,  and 
the  other  familiar  foes  found  by  the  missionary 
in  tropical  lands.  When  the  world  was  clamouring 
for  foodstuffs,  especially  sugar,  emigration  to  sugar- 
growing  islands,  such  as  Cuba  and  San  Domingo, 
became  abnormal.  The  Church  followed  up 
its  children  in  San  Domingo,  but  had  not 
the  men  and  means  to  go  over  to  Cuba.  But  from 
these  islands  considerable  sums  of  money  were  sent 

jOn  March  31st,  1917,  the  three  Danish  Islands— St.  Thomas, 
St  Croix,  and  St.  John — were  transferred  to  the  United 
States  of  North  America. — J.E.H. 


SIO        A  History  of  Moratian  Missions. 

home  to  the  wives  and  families  left  behind,  and 
everywhere  there  arose  a  complete  change  in  the 
conditions  of  life,  similar  to  those  experienced 
in  European  countries,  where  increase  of  wages  and 
cost  of  living  produced  a  medley  of  profusion  and 
poverty,  which  confused  the  minds  of  those 
accustomed  to  the  old  landmarks  of  society.  In 
spite  of  all  this,  the  loyal  co-operation  of  all,  together 
with  the  divine  blessing  resting  upon  all  honest  effort, 
resulted  in  progress,  and  in  a  spirit  of  harmony  that 
rose  superior  to  racial  agitation,  and  showed  itself 
in  the  Synods  of  both  Provinces.  It  is  not  easy  to 
interest  the  friends  of  Foreign  Missions  in  a  field  that 
has  become  Christian,  and  now  requires  the  same 
sort  of  organization  and  teaching  as  the  Church  at 
home,  but  of  all  the  tasks  the  Moravians  have  to  do 
abroad,  this  is  perhaps  the  most  important,  though 
the  least  showy,  to  build  up  a  strong,  self- 
sustaining  and  self-propagating  Church  in  the  West 
Indies. 

Close  to  them,  practically  identical  with  them  in 
life  and  aim,  lies  the  little  Province  of  Demerara. 
A  cheery,  progressive  Church  is  being  built  up  there, 
whose  development  in  the  last  25  years  has  been 
pleasant  to  watch,  and  altogether  notable,  since  it 
is  the  only  field  which  is  managed  entirely  by  a 
native  ministry  and  laity. 

Surinam,  or  Dutch  Guiana,  which  adjoins  it  on  the 
east,  has  become  the  most  comprehensive  enterprise  of 
the  Moravian  Church,  because  by  far  the  larger  part 
of  the  population  is  under  her  care.  Here  is  the 
Old  Mission  among  the  black  people  of  the  towns, 
with  all  the  equipment  and  organizations  of  an 
institutional  church.  Side  by  side  with  it  is  the 
Plantation  Mission,  with  the  Bush  Mission  beyond 
that  in  the  forest  vOlages  along  the  great  rivers. 
There  is  a  Coolie  Mission  among  the  British  Indians, 


Epilogue.  511 

and  a  Mission  to  the  Javans,  who  have  been  brought 
over  in  large  numbers  of  late  years.     There  is  a  Leper 
Colony.     There    is    a    Children's    Home.     A    large 
business    establishment,    which    sprang    out    of   the 
first  endeavours  of  the  early  missionaries  to  earn  their 
own  living,  not  only  helps  to  support  the  Mission,  but 
also  assists  various  philanthropic  undertakings.   Four 
languages  are  necessary  for  the  carrying  on  of  the 
work.     There  are  numerous  schools,  and  a  college  for 
the  training  of  teachers   and   native  ministers.     It 
was   inevitable   that   such   a   compUcated  organism 
should  suffer  many  things  when  the  highways  of  the 
world  were  blocked  by  war,  and  its  being  in  neutral 
territory  could  not  save  it.     Among  the  miracles  of 
Providence  can  be  reckoned  this,  that  the  work  of  this 
Mission  was  carried  on  unhindered  through  the  last 
eight  years,  when  men  in  some  cases  could  not  have 
been  replaced  if  they  had  been  taken  away. 

There  were  times  when  Nicaragua  caused  those  in 
authority  the  gravest  anxiety  ;  but,  when  American 
influence  became  dominant  in  the  country,  the  fact 
that  the  Mission  was  under  American  control  removed 
some  of  the  most  acute  difficulties.  As  seems  to  be 
the  case  so  often  among  the  Indians,  the  time  of  trial 
was  a  time  of  religious  revival.  Year  by  year  the 
number  of  baptisms  of  heathens  and  of  confirma- 
tions increased.  The  movement  culminated- in  the 
baptism  of  129  souls  at  Sang  Sangta  in  1921. 
The  door  stands  wide  open  in  Nicaragua  and 
Honduras  ;  the  harvest  is  plenteous,  but  the  labourers 
are  few. 

The  Indian  Mission  in  California  has  added  a  small 
infirmary  to  its  other  ministrations  to  the  remnant 
of  the  red  race.  Its  watchword  is  "  Disinterested 
Service." 

Alaska  has  been  out  of  the  hurly-burly,  and  has 
learnt  the  first  lessons  in  self-help.     For  this  purpose 


512        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

its  Eskimos  had  to  learn  how  to  elect  a  committee,  and 
were  taught  a  lesson  that  Europeans  picked  up  by 
experience  long  ago,  that  unanimity  is  seldom  possible, 
and  that,  when  it  is  unattainable,  a  majority  suffices 
for  sensible  folk.     This  also  is  a  fruit  of  the  Spirit. 

Labrador,  remote  as  it  seems,  suffered  with  the 
rest  of  the  world.  The  price  of  its  products,  especially 
oil  and  furs,  rose  enormously,  and  this  seeming 
prosperity  fed  the  desire  for  luxury  there,  as  elsewhere. 
Then  came  three  disasters  in  successive  years.  The  in- 
fluenza epidemic  (1919),  which  swept  round  the  world, 
reached  Okak  and  Hebron,  When  it  passed,  Okak 
was  almost  without  inhabitant,  and  the  population 
of  Hebron  had  been  reduced  to  seventy.  The 
tragedy  was  also  an  economic  blow,  since  so  many 
hunters  and  fishers  had  been  carried  off  in  a  land  that 
depends  on  them  for  those  necessaries  of  life,  which  are 
imported  yearly  in  exchange  for  their  furs  and  fish 
and  oil.  The  next  year  (1920)  the  ice  formed  round 
the  coast  unusually  early,  and  the  Harmony  was  not 
able  to  reach  even  Hopedale  and  Nain  on  her  last 
trip,  so  that  all  the  next  winter  there  was  a  lack  of 
many  things  she  should  have  landed,  and  the  Mission 
was  once  more  impoverished  by  her  failure  to  carry 
to  St.  John's  and  London  the  cargoes  awaiting  her. 
In  1921,  when  the  founding  of  the  Mission  150  years 
ago  had  just  been  celebrated,  Nain,  the  oldest  station, 
was  destroyed  by  fire  in  3|  hours,  and  such  losses  were 
sustained  that  the  Church's  mission  policy  all  over  the 
world  was  affected  by  them.  It  was  even  doubtful 
for  a  time  whether  the  Harmony  could  be  equipped  for 
another  voyage,  or  would  have  to  be  sold.  But  with- 
out her  the  northern  part  of  the  coast  at  least  would 
have  to  abandoned.  The  generous  response  to  the 
appeal  for  help  made  it  possible  to  venture  to  send  the 
Harmony  out  once  more  in  1922,  though  it  was  still 
a  venture  of  faith,  for  less  than  half  the  actual  losses 


Epilogue.  518 

were  covered  by  what  was  subscribed,  and  the  Board 
had  to  trust  to  daily  manna  to  supply  the  needs  of 
those  committed  to  its  care. 

Courage,  simplicity,  unselfishness,  loyalty  to  Christ, 
and  promptness  for  service  are  the  characteristics  of 
the  great  missionary,  and  of  all  communities  that 
seek  to  mould  themselves  by  his  example.  These 
have  been  the  marks  of  Moravian  Missions,  wherever 
they  have  been  true  to  type.  For  nearly  two  hundred 
j'ears,  in  spite  of  human  weakness  and  blindness,  the 
missionaries  have  maintained  this  standard  on  the 
whole,  humbly  seeking  to  be  faithful  in  that  which 
is  least,  shunning  the  spectacular,  and  influencing 
the  ideals  of  the  Church  at  home.  He  who  reads  the 
record,  and  reflects  on  all  the  influences  that  have 
streamed  out  into  the  world  from  so  humble  a 
source,  will  say  : — 

This  is  the  Lord's  doing  ; 
It  is  man-ellous  in  our  eves. 


2L 


APPENDIX. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY. 


1.    GENERAL  HISTORIES. 
Adolt  ScHrLZB  :   Abrisz  einer  Geachichte  der  Brudeitnission  (1901).    An 

indispensable     text-book ;      contains     an     almost     exhaustive 

bibliography. 
J.  T.  Hamilton  :    A  History  of  Moravian  Missions  in  the  Eighteenth 

and    Nineteenth   Centuries   (1901).    The   story   told    briefly   in 

periods. 

E.  A.  Skitit  :  Les  Missions  Moraves  (1890).     A  good  sketch  up  to  1890. 
A.  ScHULTZB  :    Die  M issionsf elder  der  Erneuerten  BrUder-Kirche  (1890). 

An  American  book ;    good  popular  sketch. 
JoHK  Beck  Holmes  :    Historical  Sketches  of  the  Missions  of  the  United 
Brethren  (1827). 

F.  L.  K6LBIKO :    tibersicht  der   Missions-Oeschichie  der  Evangdischen 

Briider-Kirche  in  ihrem  ersten  Jahrhundert  (1832). 
David    Cra5Z  :     History   of  the    Renewed   Moraman   Church   (1771). 

(English  Translation.) 
J.    G.    HsaysB :     Fortseizung   von   David   Cranxens   Brilder-Historie 

(1791-1816).     Useful. 
A.  C.  Thompson  :   Moravian  Missions:    Twelve  Lectures  (1882). 
EuoBN   Reiohel  :     Eilckblick  auf  unsere  150  jdhrige    Missi<ms-Arb*it 

(1882).     Of  exceptional  value. 
Th.   C.   Bechlxb  :     Vor  hundert  Jahren  und  Heut  (1900).     Contains 

useful  statistics. 

2.     PERIODICALS. 

1.  Periodical  Aumints  relating  to  the  Missions  of  the  Church  of  the 

United    Brethren.     A    quarterly    magazine,    founded    1790.     In 
thirty-six  botmd  volumes,  from  1790  to  1894.     Contains  : 

(a)     Extracts  from  missionaries'  diaries  and  letters. 

(6)     Many   autobiographies. 

(c)     Editors*  prefaces. 

{d)    Statistical  and  financial  tables. 

2.  Missions- Blatt  aus  der  BrUdergemeirie  (founded   1837).     Monthly 

Magazine.     In  bound  volumes,  to  1906.     Fuller  than  Periodical 
Accounts. 
S.     Moravian  Missions  (founded  1903).     Illustrated  popular  monthly. 

(SIS) 


516        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

4.  AUgetneine    Missions- Zeitschijt    (1874).        Edited     by     Gustav 

Wameck.     Contains  several  important  articles  on  Moravian  work. 
6.     Dtr  Brilder-Bote  (1862). 

6.  Nachrichten  aus  der  Brilder-Oemeine  (1819-1894). 

7.  Aut  Nord  und  Sild  (1900).     Juvenile. 

8.  Kampf  und  Sieg  (1906). 

9.  Journal  de  VUniU  des  Freres  (1835). 

10.  The  Little  Missionary  (American).     (1871). 

11.  Dtr  Missions- Freund  (American).     (1889). 

12.  Travel  and  Exploration  (see  July,  1910). 
18.  Jewish  Intelligencer  (see  1857). 

3.    THE  VARIOUS  FIELDS. 
1.    The  West  Indies. 
C.  G.  A.  Oldendoep  :   Geschichte  der  Mission  der  Evangelischen  Briider 
auf  den  Caraibischen  Inseln  St.  Thomas,   St.  Croix,  vnd  St.  Jan 
(1777). 
A.  VON  Dewitz  :  In  Ddnisch-West-Indien  (1899). 
H.  G.  Schneider  :    Friedrich  Martin  (1901). 
J.  H.  BuoHNER  :   The  Moravians  in  Jamaica  (1859). 
Hark  and  Westphal  :  The  Breaking  of  the  Dawn  (1904). 

2.  Greenland. 
David  Cranz  :  History  of  Greenland  (1770) 
F.  L.  K^LBino  :   Qrdnlavd  (1832). 

GuiDO  BimKHARDX :    Gronlaud  (1897).     (In  Missioas-Stuuden). 
Jesse  Page  :  Amid  Greenland  Snows, 

H.  G.  Schneider:    Uansina  Hinz  (1897).     (English  Edition).     (1901). 
R.  Gysin  :   Oronldndische  Bilder  (1899).     (Kleine  Traktate  Series.) 
J.  Brodbhok  :  Nach  Osten  (1882). 

3.     Labrador. 
F.  L.  KOlbing  :   Labrador  (1832). 
J.  W.  Davey  :    The  Fall  of  Torngak  ;    or  The  Moravian  Mission  on 

the  Coast  of  Labrador  (1905). 
H.  G.  ScHNKiDER  :    Eine  Weihnachts-Feier  in  Labrador  (1901). 
H.  G.  Schneider  :  Prinz  Pamiok  und  sein  Vater  (1900). 
H.  G.  Schneider  :    Der  Schlimme  Salomo  (1900). 
H.  Kluge  :   Christfest  in  Hebron.     (A  Tract.) 
H.  Kluqe  :    Drei  Kurze  Geschichten.     (A  Tract.) 
A.  VON  Dewitz  i  An  der  Kiiste  Labradors  (1899). 
Th.  C.  Beohlbr  :    Typhus- Epidemic  in  Nain  (1901). 

5.  K.  HuTTON  :    Among  the  Eskimos  of  Labrador  (1912).     By  far  th« 

fullest  account  of  Eskimo  life. 
S.  K.  HniTON  I  By  Eskimo  Dog  Sled  and  Kayak  (1919). 
H.  G.  SoHNEiDKR  :    Die  Ermordung  Erhardtt. 


Appendix. 


517 


4.    NoBTH  Amkaican  Indians. 
O.  H.  LosKiKL  :    Hialoty  of  the  Miisions  of  the  United  Brethren  among 

the  Indians  of  Xorth  America  (1794.     English  Edition). 
Edmund  db  Sohweinitz  :    The  Life  and  Time*  of  David  Zeiebergtr 

(1871). 
H.  RdMEB  :    Die  Indianer  und  ihr  Freund  David  Zeisberger  (1800). 
RiCB  :    David  Zeisberger  and  his  Brown  Brethren  (1897). 

5.    Surinam. 
Paramaribo  {\9Q\). 
Die  Buschneger  Surinames  (1893). 
Sopal,  ein  Indischer  Kvli  in  Suriname  (1898). 
Ein  Junger,  ein  Alter  (1891). 
Zweimal  gehenkt  (1896). 
H.  Kluok  :    Besuch  auf  Oroot  Chatillon. 
Th.  C.  Bechleb  :    Dienende  Liebe  (1901). 
K.  F.  Lkddebhose  :    Die  Mission  unter  den  Aratvakken  (1847). 
F.  Stahelin  :  Die  Mission  der  BrUdergemeine  in  Suriname  und  Berbice. 
K.   F.   Leddbbhose  :     Die  Mission  unter  den  freien  Butchnegern  in 
Suriname  (1876). 

6.    SoxTTH  Africa. 
Onadenthal  (Part  I.    1892).      (Too  Anti-Bo«r  in 


H.  G.  SCHNEIDEB 
H.  G.  SOHNEIDEB 

H.  G.  Schneider 
H.  G.  Schneider 

H.  G.  SCHNBIDER 


H 


G.    SOHNEIDBR: 

tendency.) 
H.  G.  Schneider  : 
H.  G.  Schneider  : 
H.  G.  Schneider  : 
H.  G.  Schneider  : 
H.  G.  Schneider  : 
H.  G.  Schneider  : 
GuiDO  Burkhardt 


Ein  Missionar  als  Feld-Prediger  (1893). 

H.  P.  Hallbeck  im  Kaplande. 

Am  Xentu  (1900). 

Moravian  Hill,  ein  Ootteswerk  im  Kaplande  (1887). 

Auf  der  Flucht. 

Stephen  Prins.     (English  Edition.) 

:    Siid-Afrika.     (In  ^Vlissions-Stunden.) 


Charles  Buchner  :   Acht  Monate  in  Siid-Afrika  (1894). 

K.   F.   Ledderhose  :     Das  Bilchlein  von  den  Hottentoten  und  ihrem 

ersten  Aposiel  0.  Schmidt  (1849). 
Th.  Reichelt  :    Geschichte  der  Missions-Station  Silo  (1878). 
J.  du  Plessis  :    History  of  Christian  Missions  in  South  Africa  (I9\l). 
Dudley  Kidd  :  The  Essential  Kaffir  (1904). 

C.  L  La  Trobe  :   Journal  of  a  Visit  to  South  Africa  (1815-16).  A 

Jambs  La  Tbobb  :    Self-Devotedness  in  the  Service  of  Christ ;    or  The   jk 

Leper  Hospital  in  South  Africa  (1865). 
E.  VAN  Calker  :    Die  Grantstationen  in  Siid-Afrika. 

7.    The  Moskito  Coast. 
H.  G.  Schneider  :   Moskito  (1899). 

H.  G.  Schneider  :   Die  Erweckung  auf  der  Moakito^Kiiste  (1888). 
H.  G.  ScHNBiDBR  :   Kaisa  ! 


518        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

H.  G.  SoHNBiDEB  :    Ramah  Key  (1896). 

H.  G.  Schneider  :    Quamwatla. 

A.  ScHULZB :    Moskito.     (In  Missions-Stunden.) 

8.     Victoria. 
H.  G.  SoHNBiDER ;    Brilder- Mission  in  Auttralien  (1882). 
Anokymous  :    Willie  Wimmera. 

9.    North  Queensland. 
Arthur  Ward  :    The  Miracle  of  Mapoon  (1908). 
H.  G.  Schneider  :    Mapoon  (1898). 

F.  H.  L.  Paton  :   Olimpses  of  Mapoon,  etc. 

10.    The  Himalayas. 
H.G.Schneider:  Ein  Missionsbild  aus  dem  Weatlichen Himalaya {1S80). 
Arthur  Ward  :    Working  and  Waiting  for  Tibet.     (A  translation,  with 
additions,  of  Schneider's  work.) 

G.  T.  Reichklt  :   Die  Himalaya  Mission  (1896). 
S.  RiBBAOH  :   An  den  Grenzen  Tibets. 
Schbevb  :    Einer  sdet,  der  andere  erntet. 

A.  H.  Franckk  :   History  of  Western  Tibet  (1907). 

11.    Nyassa  and  Unyamwezl 
J,  T.  Hamilton  :    Twenty   Years  of  Pioneer  Missions  in  Nyassa  Land 

(1912) 
G.    Burkhardt  :      Deutsch-Ostafrika,     Nyassa-Oebitt.      (In     Miuiona 

Stunden.) 
H.  Kluge  :   Am  Fusz  des  Rungwe-Berges. 

12.     Alaska. 
J.    T.     Hamilton  :     The    Beginnings    of   the   Moravian   Mission  in 

Alaska  (1890). 
H.  G.  Schneider  :   Alaska.     (In  Missioni-Stunden.) 

13.    California. 
E.   DB    SoHWEiNiTZ  Brunner  :    A  History  of  the  Moravian  Mission 
to  the  Indians  of  Southern  California. 

14.     Work  among  Lepers. 
E.  A.  Sbneti  76  Annies  parmi  lea  Lipreux  (1894). 

15.    The  Jews. 
GusTAV  Dalman  :   Oraf  Zinzendorf  und  die  Juden  (1889). 
A.  SoHULZE  :    Samuel  Lieberkuhna  Leben  und  Wirken  (1894). 
(The  two  above  works  are  issued  in  one  volume,  und«r 
the   general   title,    Zinzendorf  und   Lieberkiikn.) 
Bbckbr-Shawb  I    8.    Lieberkiihns   Missions- Methode   und  ihre  Oegnsr 
(1888). 


Appendix.  619 

16.    East  Indus. 
Ikssl  :   Letters  on  the  Nicobar  Islands  (1812). 
17.    Egypt. 
Th.  C.  Bkchlbb  :    Die  Arbeit  der  BrUdergemeine  unter  den  Kopten  in 
Aegypten.     (In  AUe  Welt  Series,  No.  8.) 

4.     OFFICIAL  REPORTS. 

1.  Reports  of  Mission  Board  to  the  Oeneral  Synod. 

2.  Oeneral  Synodal  Results. 

3.  Proceedings  of  the  Society  for  Propagating  the  Oospd  among  the 

Heathen.     (Of  Special  value  for  Alaska  and  California.) 

4.  Annual  and  Qtuirterly  Reports  of  the  London  Association  in  Aid 

of  Moravian  Missions. 
fi.     Annual  Reports  of  the  Leper  Home  at  Jerusalem, 

6.     OTHER  SOURCES. 

1.  BUdingsche  Samndungen  :  A  printed  collection,  in  three  volumet, 
of  eighteenth  century  diaries,  letters,  essays  and  official  docu- 
ments ;    of  supreme  value  for  the  early  history. 

2  Zinzendobf's  :  Freivoillige-Nachlese.  Includes  seTeral  original 
sources  of  value. 

3.     H.Roy:     Zimendorfs  Anweisungen  fur  die  Missions- Arbeit  (1S93). 


STATISTICS. 


1.    SoHB  Points  or  Intibsst. 

1.  During  the  years  1732-40,  the  Moravians  sent  out  68  missionaricB- 

2.  In  1800  the  number  of  Moravian  missionaries  serving,  not  counting 

wives,    was  90  ;     in  aU  other  Protestant  Churches  combined  it 
was  only  about  30. 

3.  In  1850  the  number  of  Moravian  missionaries  was  130  ;  the  number 

of  other  Protestant  missionaries  1,500. 

4.  In  1900  the  number  of  Moravian  missionaries  was  186  ;  the  number 

of  other  Protestant  missionaries  6,300.  In  1800,  therefore,  the 
Moravians  excelled  others  at  the  rate  of  three  to  one  ;  in  1900 
they  had  only  one  in  thirty-five. 
6.  On  the  other  hand,  in  proportion  to  the  size  of  the  Home  Provinces, 
the  number  of  Moravian  missionaries  is  exceptionally  large.  At 
the  close  of  1910  the  numbers  were  as  follows  : — Communicants, 
28,710;     Ordained    Missionaries,    150;     Unordained,    52;    i.e., 


520 


A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 


a  proportion  of  one  in  144.  If  the  miseionaries'  wives  are  added 
(176)  the  total  number  of  missionaries  is  378  ;  i.e.,  a  proportion 
of  one  in  75. 

2,    State  op  thb  Mission  at  Zinzendoef's  Death,  1760. 

At  the  close  of  the  year  1760,  i.e.,  after  only  twenty-eight  year*' 
work,  the  Moravian  Church  had  sent  out  no  fewer  than  226  missionaries, 
and  the  general  situation  in  the  foreign  field  was  as  follows  :— 


Stations. 

Missionaries. 

Baptized. 

Communicants. 

Greenland 

2 

9 

621 

200 

Indians 

2 

4 

600(?) 

(?) 

Jamaica 

2 

7 

80 

(?) 

St.  Thomas 
St.  Croix 

2 

1 

}    " 

1,600    i 

700 
(?) 

Antigua 

1 

2 

6 

(?) 

Surinam 

Total 

3 

16 

250 

13 

49 

3,057 

Over  900 

3.    State  op  the  Mission  rsr  1792,  when  the  Baptist 
MissiONAEY  Society  was  Founded. 


Fields. 

Missionaries. 

Baptized. 

St.  Thomas          

2,483 

St.  Croix              

29          ] 

3,669 

St.  Jan      

838 

Antigua     

11 

6,038 

St.  Kitts               

6 

147 

Jamaica 

6 

SIS 

Barbados              

4 

20 

Surinam,  etc 

18 

300 

Greenland             

15 

891 

Labrador              

25 

63 

Canada      

6 

148  (?) 

South  Africa         

3 

(?) 

Tranquebar          

15 

(?) 

138 

About  14,910 

State  o?  thb  Mission  in  1848,  i.e..  Whin  thx 
Modern  Advance  Beoan. 


ProTincea 

te 
hment. 

kal 

Island 
lony. 

under 
iveral 
menti. 

and 

Q*'!    .s^a 

-:e 

National 

Stations. 

Estal 

in  ea 
or 

Nambers. 

Danish  West  Indies. 

1 

, 

St.  Thomas. 

New  Hermhut 

1732 

) 

-» 

■ 

•Town  of  St,  Thomas  .. 

1843 

[2,298 

j 

!         Niesky 

1753 

) 

1 

St.  Croix. 

! 

1        Friedensthal 

1764 

[  6,316 

:,  I  9,413 

1 

Friedensberg 

1771 

Friedensfeld 

1804 

I 

St.  Jan. 

Bethany           

1754 

1  1,799 

! 

Fmmaus 

1782 

1 

English  West  Indies. 

Antigua. 

St.  John's        

1756 

1 

j        Gracehill          

j     1774 

I 

'        Gracebaj'         

1797 

1 

Newfield           

j     1817 

-  9,737 

Cedar- Hall       

1822 

1       *Lebanon           

1838 

♦Gracefield         

1840 

St.  Kitts 

Basseterre        

1777 

Bethesda          

1820 

Bethel 

1832 

-  4,193 

*Estridge           

1846 

Babbados. 

Sharon 

1767 

Mount  Tabor  

1826 

, 

63,719 

Bridgetown      

1836 

3,702 

NegroM. 

*aifton  Hill      

1841 

-32,164 

Jamaica. 

.    Fairfield           

1823 

New  Eden       

1812 

■ 

Irwin  Hill        

1816 

New  Carmel     

1827 

1 

New  Fulneck 

1830 

1 

1 

New  Bethlehem 

1833 

t 

Beaufort           

1834 

■  12,997  i 

Bethany           

1835 

*New  Hope       

1838 

*Nazareth          

1838 

♦Lititz 

1839 

♦Bethabara       

1840    1 

, 

TOBAQO. 

1 

Montgomery 

1827 

{  1.626  1 

*Moriah 

1842 

. 

South  America. 

Surinam. 

Paramaribo,  Town     ... 

1776 

V 

„         Plantations 

Charlottenburg 

1835 

♦Ruflt-en-Werk 

1845 

■  12,152 

12,152 

♦Salem 

1840 

♦Bambey           

1841 

(»1) 


522        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

State  of  the  Mission  in  1848 — continued. 


Provinces 
and 

Stations. 


North  America. 
Delawaees. 
New  Fairfield  . . . 
*Westfield 
Cherokees. 

New  Spring  Place 
*Canaan 

Labrador. 

Nain     

Okak 

Hopedale 
Hebron 

Greenland. 
New  Hermhut 
Lichtenfels 
Liohtenau 
Frederiksdal    ... 

South  Africa. 
Genadendal 
Groenekloof     ... 

Enon 

Elim 

Leper  Hospital 

[  Hottentots     . 

iTambookies  . 

( Hottentots 


Shiloh 


"ti  •*<  j3 


♦Clarkson 


JFingoos 


Totals 


1792 
1838 

1801 
1843 

1771 
1776 
1782 
1830 


1733 

1758 
1774 
1824 


1792 
1808 
1818 
1824 
1823 

1828 
1839 


«  '"'  .2 


450 


1,186 


I  1,976 


8,741 


460 


1,185 


1,976 


6,741 


64,071 


National 
Numbers. 


460 
Indians. 


1,185 
Esquimaux 


1,976 
Greenlanders 


6,206 
Hottentota 

536 

Tambookiea 

and 

Fingoofl 


64,071 


♦The  stations  to  which  an  asterisk  is  affixed  have  been 
established  since  the   SjTiod  of   1836. 
Of  the  above  gross  amount  of  Converts,  and  of  Heathen  receiving 
instruction  from  missionaries  of  the  Brethren's  Church,  there  are  : — 
Subjects  of  the  British  Crown 


Crown  of  Denmark 


Holland 

Residing  in  the  United  States,  etc.  Indians 


Negroes 

32,154 

Indians 

216 

Hottentots,  etc. 

6,741 

Esquimaux     . . . 

1,185 

40,296 

Negroes 

9,413 

Greenlanders  . . . 

1,976 

11,389 
12,162 

Negroes 

Indians 

234 

Total 


64,071 


Appendix. 


528 


•trtpqos 


■ffooips  ^«a 


•parndeg 


O 
o 

■J 
D 

■< 


—  OS  — 

OS  06  o 


'^■^        ^■^  t>  Oft  00  ©i  CO -H  »o 
00  ©i"  ^ »«  ©f  C4  F-J" 


^lO  50   I«r~ooo»>oo<r-O5oeo 

,!>•  I    f>4  r-t  1-*  d  1-4  C4 


^eq  rH  rl 


s 


CO  •*  X 

(M  00  t^ 

o  CO  o 


T|t(M(N?OOSOI>IN'-^OSOOe2 

(MOOstO'- 'OOt~-*_Oioooo-<i^«a_ 

i>  ^  ei"  i>  «  eo  e<5  •*      ooos-* 
I— I  *< 


•«jweo{nnttnno3 


o  ■*  o 

l>  00  « 
00  ■*  (M 


O«0Olr^O000sa5O'^C£Or-«D 

ioosM>oxacx?]-*ooou;-*eo 
i—coOi— lOSTfiaoosTfia^x^oo^ 

C^  ^  r^  ei  r^  f^  1-^  00  N^ 


■U9di»H 


coos-^oc^-'jtoxoioeoMOJ 

1— i«TjtlOOt^t-XX«OS05«0 
«  ^  CO  IM  ^ 


1    I 


N  ^    I  ^ 


■epcuo]ss{p{ 


00  t>  c^      CO  (N  IN  eo  eo  e^  »^  w  lo 


Siipi3cai<i 


rt  eo  eo  N  ■*  06  ® 


I    I    I    1 


;s 


•tuoB^JS 


c  ^  ...      S.5..^«3.2. 

•    •    -O    •  -^  •    •    •      ^O      -o            gt§       1 

:   :   :  2-2  ::f  :    :    :    -.aS    :  >>^  S:<  |-Ej 

o  S  5  H»S      .2           -^^  »  o  ^ 


>-l  N  CO  ■* 


524 


A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 


•MBioqDS 

CO        ,  o>  «D   ,  r-c  <»  CO  CO  eo  ©»  CO  M  CO  o  OS  a»  i-<  00  ■<*<  o> 
*          ?S  fr      Q  «o  >^  lo  oj  50  1-H  00  t' -- CO  w  eo  ^  CO  w 

38 

© 
CO 

•fiooqos  X«a 

00   1    1  oo  X    1  f -^  lo  o>  CO -H —<  CO  <N  I— <N  CO  »  t~  t- eo 

l-H 

1 

•p9»IjdBa 

>o-*ooj?Da>eooioo5MO'>*fo-*or-<coot~-«o«o 

C«500000>-*«D-^t^»CCO-*i-iaipHO"*CO<MlO(MiOrt 

(Neoi--ii:^cooTj;aoo5_03'^'Hior-<_coi>i>roeo--rH 
i-<pH      eoc4"c^eo«oeoeo      fh'cdi-h«o'c4"in''ooi-<' 

-1                                                                         <N          r^ 

1 

't)iie3rannimo3 

oofO-*coooco»ot»eoo5iM'«*iooJO'*o>Tt<cq(NOco 

OI:-OCOt-iCe<IOiM-1t05DOt-^50->*tOOiOSOO-* 

>oi>-H-<jj_o5O5eoc-^coiq-<i<i-Haoic-<j4«<ii>ca_0OF-< 
to           i-Jc^^i-Tp-h           f-T      t-^'      coco 

00 

CO 
CO 

■«9dl3H 

•>#  lO  fH  OS  •*  OS  ■*  p  lo  ij<  CD      (N  »o  ^  t- iM  t^  Ttt  i>  o  eo 

1*1           eOTtHco50OTi>ioeo      ■^eoi— ct>cot^eo^--t 
CO                                          ^       eo       iM  c<l  i-< 

© 
o 
c4" 

•tJ3tpB3J(J 
8A|}BM 

It-    iioi-^— ioos»Oi^coeoo5«o(N'*oo    i    i    i    i 
11,.^                                            eq      _  ^   1    1    1    1 

— < 

—4 

CO  lO  coo  (N  (N  ^eo  rt  CM     I      lO     1    ■*  •^Jt  t- CO  f-i  lO  1-1  •* 

1-H 

•(»iew) 
wueoo{ss!j^ 

e<5  f  CO  ©  «  N  1-1  •*  >-i(N  p-H     10^     1   OS  ■*  CO  CO  Q  CO  ©  CO 

g 

•sweid 
SmqoBWd 

f-t  ©  M  f-i  ■*     1      1   CO  O  >0  CO  CO  rt  Fi  ©  ©  ©  ©  »0  M -<  -* 
(N         F*           1      1                                  C-        CO  f-<  C^  -*  t- -^Jt 

1-H  i-H  1— 1 

i 

CD 
r-H 

••OORBJS 

cDM«o©eoeoTt*©'*fO'*rtioeoeooOpHN©®'<j<co 

s 

1.  Labrador          

2.  Alaska 

3.  N'th  Amer.  Indians  (California) 

4.  Jamaica           

5.  W.Indies-St.  Thomas  &  St.  Jan 

6.  St.  Croix          

7.  St.  Kitts          

8.  Antigua            

9.  Barbados          

10.  Tobago             

11.  Trinidad           

12.  St.  Domingo 

13.  Nicaragua        

14.  Demerara 

15.  Surinam  (Old  Mission) 

16.  Surinam  (New  Mission) 

17.  South  Africa  (West) 

18.  South  Africa  (East) 

19.  Ea*!t  Central  Africa  (Nyassa) 

20.  E.  Cent.  Africa  (Unyamwezi) 

21.  West  Himalaya          

22.  Australia  (N.  Queensland)     ... 

Appendix. 
OFFICIAL  VISITATIONS. 


525 


West  Ikdies. 

1736 

Spangenberg. 

1827 

Christian  HiiSeU. 

1739 

Zinzeudorf. 

1840-41     J.  Chr.  Breutel. 

1742 

D.  Nitschmann. 

1847 

J.  G.  Herrmann  and 

1745 

C.  H.  Rauch. 

W.  Mallaiieu. 

1749 

Job.  V.  Watteville. 

1858-59    L.  Th.  Reichel. 

1753 

N.  Seidel. 

1862-63    C.  A.  Cunow  and 

1755 

C.  H.  Raueh. 

T.  L.  Badham. 

1775 

Martin  Mack. 

1876-77     W.  F.  Bechler. 

1779 

Martin  Mack. 

1887 

B.  Romig. 

1783  84     J.  Lorez. 

1890-91     B.  Romig. 

1797 

J.  R.  Verbeek. 

1907-8    J.  T.  Hamilton. 

1823-24    J.  H.  L.  Stobwasser. 

Gbeei. 

LAND. 

1740 

Andrew  Grassmann 

1770 

M.  Sternberg. 

1752 

J.  V.  Watteville. 

Labb 

1859 

ADOB. 

G.  Reichel. 

1773 

P.  E.  lAytitz. 

1888 

B.  La  Trobe. 

1861 

L.  T.  Reichel. 

1902 

H.  0.  Essex. 

1876 

L.  T.  Reichel. 

1909 

H.  0.  Essex. 

North  i 

America 

1742. 

Zinzendorf. 

1872 

E.  A.  V.  Schweinitz  and 

1748 

J.  V.  Watteville. 

R.  V.  Schweinitz. 

1771 

C.  Gregor  and  J.  Lorez. 

1879 

E.  Leibert. 

1780 

A.  Gmbe. 

1880 

C.  L.  Rights  and 

1807 

C.  V.  Forestier. 

E.  A.  V.  Schweinitz. 

1853 

J.  C.  Jacobson  and 

1881 

E.  A.  V.  Schweinitz. 

G.  F.  Seidel. 

1883 

E.  A.  V.  Schweinitz. 

1854 

J.  G.  Herrmann. 

1886 

A.  Schukze  and 

1858 

G.  F.  Bahnson. 

E.  A.  V.  Schweinitz. 

1866 

F.  Hagen. 

1895 

C.  Buchner  and 

1868 

S.  WoUe. 

Sub 

niAM. 

B.  Romig. 

1755 

N.  Seidel. 

1S70 

F.  W.  Klihn. 

1762-63     H.  Andresen. 

i;96-97     0.  Padel. 

1790-91     S.  Liebisch. 

1901 

C.  Buchner. 

1835 

P.  F.  Ciirie. 

1908 

J.  Hettasch. 

526        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

Demebaba. 

1891     B.  Romig.  |        1896    O.  Padel. 

Califobnia  and  Alaska. 

1906    J.  T.  Hamilton. 

California. 

1899    M.  Leibert.  I        1908     P.  de  Schweinitz. 

Alaska. 

1891     H.  T.  Bachmann. 

Canada. 

1899    J.  T.  Hamilton. 

South  Africa. 


1815-16    C.  I.  La  Trobe. 
1853-54     J.  C.  Breutel 
1865     F.  W.  Kiihn. 
1874    W,  F.  Beohler. 


1882-83    F.  W.  Ktihn. 
1892-93    C.  Buchner. 
1911     H.  Kluge. 


East  Africa. 

1905-6    P.  0.  Hennig. 

West  Himalaya. 

1901     B.  La  Trobe. 

Teanqttbbab. 
1786.     L.  F.  Reiohel. 
Nicaragua. 
1855    H.  WuUschlagel.  |        1890     B.  Romig. 


DICTIONARIES,  GRAMMARS,  TRANSLATIONS 
AND    WORKS    IN    NATIVE    LANGUAGES. 


1.  West  Indies. 

1.  Harmony  of  the  Gospels  and  Several  Hymns,  translated  into  Creole. 

2.  New  Testament,  in  Creole. 

2.  Qbesnland. 

Matthew  Staoh  :    Eskimo  Grammar  and  Dictionary. 

Tht  New  Testament.  Translation  begun  by  John  Beok,  finished 
by  J.  C.  Kleinsohmidt  (aided  by  two  Native  Helpers),  and 
published  (1823)  by  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society. 


Appendix.  527 

Samuel    Kleixschmidt  :      An    Eskimo    Grammar,     Dictionary, 

General  History,  History  of  Missions,  Geography,  and  ino«t  of 

Old  Testament. 
Other  Missionaries  :   Manual  of  Christian  Doctrine,  Hymn  Book, 

Harmony  of  the  Gospels,   A  Header's  Primer,   and  Translationi 

from  the  German  NachricJUen. 

3.     Labrador. 

1.  Various  Missionaries  :    The  Passion  History,  Harmony  of  tht 

Gospels,  Manual  of  Doctrine,  Hymn  Book,  Extracta  from 
Spangen berg's  Idea  Fidei  Fratrum,  and  New  Testament.  With 
the  exception  of  the  New  Testament,  which  was  published  by 
the  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society,  these  works  were  issued 
by  the  S.RG. 

2.  A.   Erdmakk  :    Old  Testament  (published   1871),   Catechism  and 

Eskimo  Dictionary  (1864). 

3.  Th.  Bourquin  :   Eskimo  Grammar  (1890). 

4.  F.  Elsner  :    Outline  of  Christian  Doctrine,  Book  of  Prayers. 

0.    A.  Martin  :    Various  School  Books,  Isaiah,  a  new  translation  ; 
Biblical  Questions  and  Answers. 

6.  ScHMiTT :    Bunyan's  Pilgrim's    Progress   (condensed  translation, 

1901). 

7.  Walter  Peerett  i    Jessica's    First    Prayer    and    Christie's   Old 

Organ  (1905). 

8.  Squire  Townley  :   Fru  Church  Caiechiam, 

9.  Magazine  :  Aglait  lUMnainortui  (Everybody's  Magazine).     Issued 

annually  since  1902. 
10.    Miscellaneous  Tracts,  Sermons,  Collection  of  Hymns,  and  Con- 
firmation Manuals. 

4.  North  American  Indians. 
Datid  Zsisbsrosr  :  A  Delaware  Indian  and  English  Spelling  Book, 
with  Appendix  containing  the  Lord's  Prayer,  Ten  Command- 
ments, Scripture  Passages  and  Litany  (1776) ;  Collection  of 
Hymns  for  the  use  of  Christian  Indians  (1803).  Spangenberg's 
Sermons  to  Children  (in  Delaware,  1803) ;  Spangenberg's 
Bodily  Care  of  Childrsn  (1803) ;  Lieberkuhn's  Harmony 
of  the  Gospels  ;  Grammatical  Treatise  on  the  Delaware  Conjugations 
(printed  1821) ;  German  and  Delaware  Lexicon  (MS.  only) ; 
Delaware  Grammar  (MS.  only) ;  Onondaga  Grammar  (MS.  only) ; 
Oerman- Delaware  Lexicon  (MS.  only) ;  Sermons  in  Delaware 
(MS.  only) ;  Delawart  Litany  (MS.  only) ;  Delau>are  Biblical 
Narratives  (MS.  only) ;  Dtlaware  and  Maqua  Vocabulary  (MS. 
only). 


528        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

5.    Sprikam. 

1.  Solomon  Sohumakn  :  Arawak  Orammar  and  Lexicon. 

2.  Various  (in  Negro -English) :   Outline  of  Jesus'  Teaching  ;  Paction 

History  ;  Negro- English  Dictionary  ;  Spangenberg's  Idea  Fidei 
Fratrum ;  New  Testament  (published  1830  by  British  and 
Foreign  Bible  Society) ;  Hymn  Book  ;  Text  Book  (Annual) ; 
Luther's  Catechism;  Book  on  Church  Festivals;  The  Caliv  Church 
History;  Singing  Book;  A. B.C.  Book;  Tracts;  Moravian 
Law  Book ;  Whitsun  Day  and  Ascension  Litany ;  Liturgy  vo 
Pinatem  ;    Pinawicki, 

Note. — In  compliance  with  instructions  issued  by  the 
Dutch  Government,  the  other  Moravian  publications  are 
issued  in  Dutch,  and  therefore,  though  useful  for  their  purpose, 
they  cannot  be  placed  in  this  list. 

6.    The  Moskito  Coast. 

1.  Q.  Grttnewald  :    Earth's  Bible  Stories,  Oospels  and  Acts  of  the 

Apostles. 

2.  H.    ZioCK  :     English- Moskito   and   Moskito- English   Dictionary. 
A.  H.  K.  Bbrckbnhagen  :    A  Moskito  Grammar  and  Dictionary 

(1894) ;  Moskito  Beading  Book  (1899) ;  A  Hundred  Stories  from 
the  Old  Testament  (1905) ;  English-Moskiio-Spanish  Phrases 
(1905) ;    Moskito- English-Spaniah   Dictionary  (1906). 

7.    Alaska. 
Vauot7S  :    Hymns  in  the  Eskimo  Language. 

8.    South  Africa,  West  :   The  Hottentots. 
As  the  services  were  generally  held  in  Dutch,  no  translations 
i      into    Hottentot   seem  to  have    been   made,    and  no  Hottentot 
Dictionary  or  Grammar  was  published. 

9.    South  Africa,  East  :    The  Kaffir. 

A.  BoNATZ :   Kaffir  Grammar,  Passion  History,  and  Church  Litany. 

Various  :  Kaffi,r  Hymn  Book  ;  Catechism  for  Baptismal  Candidates  ; 
Catechism  for  Communion  Candidates  ;  Biblical  History  ;  Rules 
and   Regulations;    Tonic  Sol-fa   Singing   Book  (1899-1908). 

W.  BouRQUiN  :   On  Kaffir  Adverbs,  etc.  (1912). 

10.  Western  Tibet. 
1.  H.  A.  Jaschke  :  Harmony  of  the  Oospels  ;  Litany  ;  Hymn  Book  ; 
Catechism ;  Geography ;  Church  History ;  Tibetan  Orammar 
(1866) ;  Romanized  Tibetan  and  English  Dictionary  (1866) ; 
Conversation  Book  in  Tibetan,  Urdu,  and  Hindi  (1867) ;  Intro- 
duotion  to  the    Hindi  and    Urdu   Languages  (1867);     Ewjli^h- 


Appendix.  529 

Tibetan  Dictionary  (1871) ;  Treati$t  on  Tibetan  Dialects ;  New 
Testament  {except  Hebrews  and  Bevelatton),  (1880). 

2.  A.  W.  Heyde  :    Tibetan  Arithmetic  ;    View  of  the  World ;    Beck's 

Manual  o/  Doctrine. 

3.  F.  A.  Redslob  :    Hebrews  and  Revelation. 

4.  A.  H.  Fbascke  :  Studies  in  Bunan,  Tinan,  Manchat  and  Ladaki  ; 

St.  Mark  in  Bunan  (aided  by  Zodpa) ;    St.  Mark  in  Ladaki ; 

St.    Mark   in   Manchat   (aided   by   Zodpa) ;      Ladakskyi   agbar 

(Quarterly  paper)   1904- 
6.    J.  Bar  SKI! :   St.  Mark  in  Kanauri  ;  Studies  in  Kanauri. 
6.    Vabious  :  New  Testament ;  Parts  of  Old  Testament ;  Hymn  Books, 

School  Books,  Catechisms. 

11.     Nyassa. 

1.  MoBAViAj^s  AND  Beblis  Socikty  :   Hymn  Book  in  Konde  DidUet 

(1905). 

2.  0.  GEMrsEus  :    Konde  Primer  (1910). 

3.  J.  BACHjiAKy:    Nyika  Primer;  New  Testament  (1913);  Stories 

from  Old  Testament  (1913). 

4.  Vabious:    Translations    of  13  Psalms;    Matthew,  Mark,  Luke, 

Revelation  (parts);  Passion  History,  Old  Testament  Extracts, 
Hymns,  Litanies,  Catechisms,  Primers,  and  Collection  of  Nativs 
Words. 

12.      USYAMWEZl. 

1.  RcDOLPH  Stbkk:   Hymns  in  Kinyamwezi ;  Kinyamwezi  Orammari 

Fifty  Stories  from  the  Kingdom  of  God  ;  New  Testament. 

2.  E.  Dahl:   Kinyamwezi  Primer;  Kinyamwezi  Sounds  aitd  Accents; 

Kinyamwezi  Dictionary. 

3.  M.  H.  L5BSEB  :    Stories  from  the  New  Testament .    Catechism. 

4.  Various  :    Psalms  ;    Bible  Stories  ;   Manual  of  Doctrine ;   Native 

Stories ;   Hymn  Book. 

13.     Calmucks. 

Isaac  ScmoDT  :  The  Gospels,  published  by  the  British  wid  Foreign 
Bible  Society  (1815). 


THE   FIRST   FRUITS. 

(Original  Painting  at  Hermhut ;    copy  at  Zeist,  Holland.) 

GuLo  OF  ScBAMACHiB :    A  Persian.     Died  at  Hermhaag  in  the 

Wetterau. 
Thomas  Mamuche  :   From  Riga.     Died  at  Hermhaag. 
Saktkl  KAYAKyAK:    The  first   Greenlander.     See   p.  71  (June 

2nd,  1738). 


iU 


580        A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 

4.  Sam  :    An.  Anakunka  from  Boston,  in  New  England ;    found  by 

Zinzendorf  in  St.  Eustace,  and  sent  to  St.  Thomas ;    buried  at 
New  Herrnhut. 

5.  Geiby  Zedmann  :  An  Armenian  girl  from  Schamaski. 

6.  Thomas  :    The  first  convert  from  the  Hurons. 

7.  Gratia  :   A  Negro  little  girl.     Died  at  Herrnhaag. 

8.  Rachel  :   A  Mulatto  from  St.  John. 

9.  Anna  Maria  :    The  baby  in  arms.      Daughter  of  Freundlich, 

Frederick  Martin's  colleague. 

10.  Catherina  :    A  giiwy  girl.     Died  at  Herrnhaag. 

11.  Oly  Carmel  :    A  Negro  boy  brought  by  Leonard  Dober  from 

St.  Thomas  ;  baptized  at  Herrnhut,  and  died  there  a  year  later. 

12.  JtrpiTER :  A  Negro  from  New  York.    Brought  by  David  Nitschmann 

to  Herrnhut. 

13.  Anna  Maria  :     Died  at  Herrnhaag. 

14.  Michael  :   Baby  in  arms.     Bom  in  Silesia  ;  died  at  Marienbom. 
16.     Hannah  :   A  Negro  widow.     Died  at  Herrnhut. 

16.  Andrew  :  The  first  convert,  i.e.,  in  St.  Thomas. 

17.  John  =  Tsohoop  :  Rauch's  famous  Mohican  convert.     See  p.  86. 

18.  John  the  Negro:     Became  a  teacher  at  Marienbom. 

19.  Francesco  of  Florida  :  Drowned  in  a  river  in  Surinam. 

20.  Pocco  :  Baby  in  arms  :    Bom  in  Berbice,  and  died  at  Marienbom. 

21.  Kybodo  :  Hottentot,  baptized  by  George  Schmidt. 

22.  Ruth  :   A  Mohican  from  Shekomeko. 


ERRATA. 


TEXT. 


t    pp.  5  and  13;    for   'Linica'  read 

'  Sinica.' 
pp.  36,  48f,  231,  509 ;  for  '  St.  John  ' 

read  '  St.  Jan.' 
p.  58  ;  for  '  speakly  '  read  '  speaking.' 
p.   58 ;    for   '  Christian   V.'   read 

'  Frederick  IV.' 
p.  69,  last  line  ;   for  '  of  '  read  '  on.' 
p.  73,  line  32  ;  for  '  on  '  read  '  in." 
p.  84,  line  12;    for  'shrubly'  read 

'  shrubby.' 
p.     121 ;     for     '  KafFemakas '    read 

'  Koffimakas.' 
p.  144  ;  for  '  Kapick '  read  '  Kapik.' 
p.    147  ;    for    '  Berleborg  '    read 

'  Berleburg.' 
p.    176;    for    'Frederick   VI.'   read 

'  Christian  VI.' 
p.  228  ;  '  English  in  the  West  Indies,' 

Second  Edition,  1888. 
p.    236 ;     for    '  Wamow '    read 

•  Warmow.' 
p.  244  ;  for  '  Baele '  read  '  Balle.' 
p.    248 ;     for    '  territory '    read 

'  Territory.' 
p.   248,   line  26;     for   'Oochgelmy' 

read  '  Oochgelogy.' 
p.  264  ;  for  '  Great '  read  '  Groot.' 
pp.    266,    257 ;     for    '  Cotica '    read 

'  Cottica.' 
pp.  267,  258  ;     delete     '  In  spite  of 

their — represented  by  images.' 
pp.  276,  487  ;  for  '  Gnienekloof  "  read 

'  Groenekloof.' 
p.   276,  Note ;    for   '  He   was   after- 
wards '     read     '  He     had     been 

Lt.  Grovemor  of  South  Australia, 

and  Grovemor  of  New  Zealand.' 
p.  281,  line  25  ;  for  '  were  Moravian  ' 

read  '  were  or  became  Moravian.' 
p.  283  ;    before  '  Mission  Land  Act ' 

insert  '  the.' 
pp.  288,  293  ;   for  '  Entazana  '  reatl 

'  Entwanazana.' 
p.  294,  line  27  ;  read  '  found  himself.' 
p.  303  ;    for  '  Jane  '  read  '  July  or 

August.' 


p.  332,  line  24  ;   read  '  Jiirgensen.' 
p.  346,  line  18;  for  'arrived  at*  read 

'  set  out  for.' 
p.  352 ;  '  Ramahyuck '  =  Our  Ramskh  = 

Ramah,  our  Home, 
pp.   357,   489;    for   '  Gutzlafi '   read 

'  Gutzlafi.' 
p.     357 ;     for     '  Rampoor '     read 

'  Rampur.' 
p.  368,  line  13  ;   for  '  Chinese '  read 

'  Tibetan.' 
p.  360  ;  for  '  Earths' '  read  '  Earth's.' 
p.   360,  last  line ;    for   '  nex '  read 

'  next.' 
p.  361,  line  7  ;   after  '  Hebrews  '  add 

'  and  Revelation.' 
p.    365,    Note ;     after    '  see '    insert 

'  "  Ladakhi  Songs  "  quoted  in  ' 
p.   386,   Note;    for   'PerciTar   read 

'  Perceval.' 
p.   371,  line  27;    for   'river'   read 

'  rivers.' 
pp.    374,    384;     for    '  Gopat '    read 

'  Gobat.' 
p.    379 ;     for    '  Cholmograu '    read 

'  C'haulmoogra.' 
p.  384,  line  16  ;  for  '  Turkish  Govern- 
ment '   read    '  lepers.' 

Note. — In  opening  the  shelter  at 
Siloah    the    Turks    meant    no 
harm  to  our  Leper  Home, 
p.  416,  line  12  ;    insert  after  '  men  ' 

'  for  a  mission  in  Queensland.' 
pp.  416,  419,  420;   for  '1890'   read 

'1891.' 
p.    426,   line    12 ;    for    '  1891  '    read 

'  1892.' 
p.  432,  line  5 ;  for  *  ship '  read  '  boat.' 
p.     443 ;      for     '  ancesters '     read 

'  ancestors.' 
p.  446,  line  18;   for  '  5th '  read  '  7th.' 
p.  454,  line  20  ;    for  '  Usake '  read 

'  Usoke.' 
p.  457,  line  4 ;    for   '  Medier '   read 

'  Meier.' 
p.  483,  line  17  ;   for  '  Western  '  read 

'  Eastern.' 


(531) 


582 


A  History  of  Moeavian  Missions. 


484 ;       for      '  Hanzina '      read 

'  Hansina.' 

487  ;     for     '  Freemantle '     read 

'  Fremantle.' 

489  ;     for     '  Waldenberg '     read 

'  Waldenburg.' 
490  ;  for  '  Pemell '  read  '  Pennell.' 
491,   line   25;    for    'then'    read 

'  than.' 
492  ,  read  '  Livingstonia.' 
492,  line  30  ;   for  '  two  delegates ' 

read  '  one  delegate.' 


492,  line  31  ;  after  '  Synod  '  add 
'each  Province  also  sending  an 
elected  delegate.' 

495,  line  18,  for  'twenty-five' 
read  '  eighteen.' 

496,  line  3  ;  for  '  pre-reformation  ' 
read  '  seventeenth  century.' 

500,  line  8  ;  for  '  several '  read 
'  most.' 

626,  line  16 ;  '  Grassmann,'  else- 
where spelt  *  Grassman' ;  better 
'  Grasmann.' 


INDEX. 


Read  '  Pennell.' 

Read  '  Rampur.' 

Read  '  Saghalin. 

Read  'Schnabel.'" 

Read  '  St.  Jan  '  for  '  St.  John.' 


Read  '  Tiibingen.' 

Read  '  Waldenburg.' 

Rea/d  '  Warmow.' 

Read  '  Witkleibosch.' 


INDEX. 


The    names   of  ships   and  printed  works  are  in  italics, 
i  =  and  following  page.         ff  =  and  following  two  pages. 


Aborigines  of  Victoria,  The,  Brongh 

Smith's,  349. 
Abraham,  Rabbi,  147f. 
Abyssinia,  161,  202. 
Account  of  Moravian   Missions, 

Spangenberg's,  189,  194,  196. 
Acts  of  Parliament,  96,  177,  216,  218, 

232,  282f. 
Adams,  Sir  Thomas,  133. 
Adelaide,  428. 
Adolph,  23. 

Africa,  Central,  219,  490. 
Africa,  East  Central,  437-458,  492f, 

496,  504,  508. 

Africa,  South,  10,  126-130,  190f, 
193,  201,  266-299,  473,  478, 
480ff,  484f,  487,  492f,  496,  499, 
601f.  608f. 

Aglait  Illunainortut,  314. 

Airy,  Mt.,  Jamaica,  213. 

Akiak,  Alaska,  403,  497. 

Akiatshuak,  Alaska,  403. 

Alaska,  394-407,  465,  473,  484,  489f, 

497,  499f,  504,  511. 

Alaska  Commercial  Company,  394. 

Alaska  Help  Society,  486. 

Albany,  95.  102. 

Albatross,  The,  418f. 

Albert,  Prince,  349. 

Albina,  Surinam,  257. 

Aleppo,  160. 

Alexander,  34. 

Alexander,  Arthur,  322. 

Alexander  I.,  Czar  of  Russia,  160. 

Algiers,  157,  175,  201,  489. 

Alleghanies,  The,  97. 

Alleghany,  The,  104. 

Allen,  Fort,  101. 

Amelia,  Princess,  26. 

America,    North,    78-116,    170,    188, 

193,    199,    201f,    246-249,    401, 

470,  473,  484f,  499. 
America,  South,  117  120,  202. 
American  Province,  375,  394,  463f, 

488,  804,  511. 


Amity,  The,  136,  301. 

Airumg  the  Eskimos  of  Labrador,  Dr. 

Button's,  310. 
Among  the  Lepers  in  Svrinam,  255. 
Amsterdam,  45.  117,  126,  130,  148f, 

152f,  157. 
Andaman  Islands,  489. 
Angegoks,  58,  64f,  70,  133,  139f,  143«. 
Angerman,  55. 

Anglicans,  350,  355,  391,  486f,  601t 
Anholm,  Marie,  490. 
Antes,  John,  162f. 
Antigua,  50,  53f,  66,  193,  199f,  232f, 

480,  489f. 
Antoinette  of  Nicaragua,  332. 
Apologetics,  A.  B.  Bruce's.  152. 
Appel,  Home  Secretary,  436. 
Arabi,  123f. 
Arabia,  162. 

Arabs,  The,  381,  385,  444f,  507. 
Arawack      Indians,      Surinam,      11, 

117-120,    188. 
Archer  River,  435. 
Argentine,  489f. 
Arthington,  Robert,  489. 
At  Home  and  Abroad,  154. 
Augsburg  Confession,  179. 
August  Gottlieb  Spangenberg,   168. 
Auka  Negroes,  121,  257. 
Aurora,  Surinam,  256. 
Aurukim,  North  Queensland,  435. 
Australia,   346,   363,   355,   416,  602, 

506. 
Australia  and  New  Zealana,  Trollope's, 

346. 
Austria,  600,  603. 

Balle,  244. 

Baffin's  Land,  490. 

Bagdad,  160. 

Bailey  Hill,  Antigua,  63. 

Balgobin,  Samuel,  258. 

Balls  River,  57. 

Baltic  Provinces,  12,  603. 

Bamb«y,  Surinam,  124. 


(533) 


584 


A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 


Banning,  California,  409,  413. 

Bantus,  The,  439,  456. 

Baptist  Missionary  Society,  3,   199, 

201. 
Baptists,  487. 
Barbados,  50,  54,  56,  193,  199,  233, 

388f. 
Barham,  John  Foster,  50f. 
Barkley,  Sir  Henry,  350. 
Bamett,  W.,  490. 
Baschera,  Michael,   164. 
Basel  Missionary  Society,  201,  219. 
Bashahr,  358,  362. 
Basseterre,  St.  Kitts,  55f. 
Basuto  War,  294. 
Batavia  River,  418,  429. 
Bath,  486. 

Baudert,  Samuel,  294. 
Bautzen,  Saxony,  23. 
Bavianskloof  (Glen  of  Baboons),  Cape 

Colony,  ]29f,  267,  269,  272-276. 
Bawa  Baer,  Nicaraeua,  330. 
Baziya,  Tembuland'^  288,  293,  295. 
Beaufort,  Duchess  of,  487. 
Beaufort,  Jamaica,  211,  217. 
Beaver  River,  106. 
Beck,  Jacob,  237. 

Beck,  John,  11,  68,  70f,  73,  181,  237. 
Beckei,  Bernhard,  13. 
Beekhuizen,  Surinam,  255. 
Behnesse,  164. 
Behr,  155. 

Behring  Sea,  394,  397. 
Belgium,  503. 

Belize,   British   Honduras,   322. 
Belmont,  Trinidad,  234. 
Bengal,  165,  188,  202. 
Benigna,  91. 

Benjamin  of  Nicaragua,  332. 
Bennett,  John,  55f. 
Bentien,  23. 
Berbice,  170. 
Berea,  South  Africa,  281. 
Bergendal,  Surinam,  256. 
Berleburg,  147. 
Berlin,  159,  311,  383.  477. 
Berlin  Discourses,  Zinzendorf's,   129, 

164. 
Berlin  Missionary  Society,  438,  458, 

602. 
Bersaba,  Surmam,  265. 
Bertha,  Sister,  387. 
Berthelsdorf,  Saxony,  9,   12. 
Beterverwachting,     Demerara,     390, 

392. 
Bethabara,  Jamaica,  217. 
Bethabara,  North  Carolina,  77. 


Bethany,  Jamaica,  217. 

Bethany,  Nicaragua,  330. 

Bethany,  St.  Jan,  48,  231. 

Bethel,  Alaska,  395,  397-403,  405f. 

Bethel,  St.  Kitts,  231. 

Bethel  Star,  The,  395. 

Bethesda,  Hlubiland,  288. 

Bethesda,  St.  Kitts,  231. 

Bethesda,   Surinam,    254f. 

Bethesda,  Tobago,  234. 

Bethlehem  Home  Missionary  Society, 

249. 
Bethlehem,  Pa.,  81f,  86,  93,  96,  99, 

lOlff,  111,  170,  394,  399,  498. 
Beverhout,  37. 
Bible,  John  Beck's,  70. 
Bielke,  259. 
Birkby,  James,   199. 
Black  River,  Jamaica,  51,  207,  220. 
Black  River,  Nicaragua,  321,  344. 
Black  Swamp,  112. 
Blackwood'a  Magazine,  234,  344. 
Blair,  Peter,  329f ,  334f. 
Bloice,  J.  A.  D.,  235. 
Blood   and    Wounds   Theologj', 

Zinzendorf's,  72,   118,   181,  272. 
Blood-bath  of  Gnadenhiitten,  113. 
Blue  Mountains.  91,  109. 
Bluefields,  Nicaragua,   321-325,  329, 

331,  335f,  339f,  342,  344. 
Bodily    Care    of  Children,  Spangen- 

berg's,  115. 
Boer  War,  298,  499. 
Boers,  The,  266f,  270,  274,  280,  282f. 
Boga,  Lake,  346,  349f. 
Bogue,  The,  51. 
Bohemia,  158,  375,  477. 
Bohler,  Peter,  91,  198. 
Bohlmann,  244. 
Bohnisch,  Frederick,  10,  59,  68,  70f, 

237. 
Bombay,  379. 
Bonatz,  290. 
Borcherd,  273. 
Borm,  Pastor,  41ff,  46. 
Bo  8  n,  419. 
Boston,  490. 
BoswelVs  Johnson,  178. 
Bowana,  Kaffir  Chief,  289f,  296. 
Bradley,   428. 
Brain,  Miss,  3. 
Branagan,  James,  199. 
Brasen,  Dr.   Christopher,  23,   136. 
Braun,  Peter,  53f,  189,  200,  232. 
Brazil,   393,   489. 
Brethren's  Society  for  the  Spread  of 

the  Gospel,  189. 


Index. 


535 


Bridgetown,  Barbadoe,  55,  233. 

Brisbane,  417,  428. 

Bristol,  481,  486. 

British  and   Foreign   Bible  Society, 

159,   227,  238,  391. 
British  Columbia,  490. 
British  East  Africa,  452. 
British   Honduras,   321f,   344,   4891, 

511. 
British  Province,  463f. 
Broadleaf,   Jamaica,   227. 
Brodbeck,  John,  237. 
Brodersen,   23. 

Brookshaw,  Benjamin,  55,   199. 
Brotherly  Agreement,  The,  12. 
Brown,  Edwin,  435. 
Brown,  John,  199. 
Brown  Bank,  Nicaragua,  329. 
Bruce,  A.  B.,  152. 
Bruder-Bote,  66. 
Bryce,  Viscount,  406. 
Buccus,  391. 

Buchner,  John  Henry,  220-225. 
Buckley,  John,  232. 
Buddhists,  159,  358,  36a 
Biidingsche  Sammlungen,  20. 
Buffalo,  255. 
Bull,  Rev.  John,  486. 
Bundali,  439,  448. 
Burckhardt,   Christian,    139. 
Burkhardt,  Guido,  120,  167,  484. 
Burgsdorf,  Aunt  of  Zinzendorf,  6. 
Bush    Negroes,    121-125,    176,    250, 

256f,  326,  478,  484,  499,  510. 
Bussals,  31. 
Buxton,  Fowell,  213. 
Buxton  Grove,  Antigua,  232. 


Cairo,  161ff. 

Calcutta,  357. 

Caledon,  Lord,  191,  276. 

California,   408-415,    466,    473,    489, 

497,  504,  511. 
Callenberg,  150. 
Calmucks,  The,  159,  202. 
Cambridge      History      of     American 

Literature,  408. 
Cambridge  Modern  History,  477. 
Cameron,  Mrs.  Daniel,  354. 
Cammerhof,  Bishop,  96ff. 
Canajoharie,  95. 
Candace  Souls,   148,   156,   161,   183, 

193. 
Canon  Bank,  Nicaragua,  329. 
Cape  Chidley,  300. 
Cape  Colony,  288-293. 


Cape  Farewell,  236,  245. 

Cape  Gracias-a-Dios,  321,  336,  344. 

Cape    Town,    126,    129,    191,    266f, 

270,  272-276,  278f,  286f. 
Carey,  William,  3,  198f,  201. 
Caribbean  Sea,  321,  345. 
Caribs,  The,  326. 
Caries,  George,  50ff,  199. 
Carisbrook,  Jamaica,  227. 
Caritas,  The,  61,  65f,  174. 
Carmel,   Alaska,   403. 
Carmelites,    160f. 
Carolus,  F.,  Native  Helper,  244. 
Carpentaria,  Gulf  of,  428. 
Carstens,  33,  37,  39,  176. 
Castell,  146. 
Catechism    for     the     Heathen,     Zin- 

zendorTe,  179. 
Catharina  Sophia,  Surinam,  255. 
Cathcart,  South  Africa,  293. 

Catherine    II.,    Empress    of    Russia, 
156,  159. 

Caucasus,  The,  164. 

Cayuga,  Lake,  97f. 

Cayugas,  The,  91. 

Cedar  Hall,  Antigua,  232. 

Cennick,  John,  51,  500. 

Ceylon,  157,  201. 

Chaguanas,   Trinidad,   234. 

Chalmers,  Dr.,  303. 

Chamber  of  Seventeen,  126.  177,  266f. 

Chambers'  Journal,  312. 

Chaplin,  Dr.,  374,  378. 

Charles,   Eskimo   Boy,    66f. 

Charles  of  Prussia,  322. 

Charlottenburg,  Surinam,  265. 

Chase,  Canon,  350ff,  417. 

Chateau    Bav,    Labrador,    142f. 

Cherokees,  The,  78-81,  248f. 

Chicago,  31  If. 

China,  175,  357,  489f. 

Chinese,  The,  257f,  404,  490. 

Chini,  Western  Tibet,  358. 

Chompel,    366. 

Christian  VI.,  King  of  Denmark,  15, 
41,  45,  59f,  73.  176. 

Christian  VII.,  King  of  Denmark,  49. 

Christie,  British  Consul,  323. 

Christy's  Old  Organ,  314. 

Church,  Samuel,  199. 

Church,  S.  F.,  199. 

C.M.S.,    201,    300,     357,     458,    463 
487,  490,  497,  502,  507. 

Church  of  England  Messenger,  346. 

Circassia,  489. 

Clarkson,  195. 

Clarkson,  South  Africa,  281. 


586 


A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 


Classis,  The,  130. 

Clayton-Bulwer  Treaty,  325,  345. 

Clemens,  T.  L.,  234. 

Clevia,  Surinam,  255. 

Clifford,  Sir  Hugh,  234. 

Clifton,  Jamaica,  226. 

Clifton  Hill,  Barbados,  233. 

Clinton,  Governor,  95. 

Coast  and  Inland,  602. 

Coermatibo  River,  121 

Coke,  Dr.,  198. 

Cole,  Sir  Tony,  276. 

Colombo,  157. 

Colonisation    oj   Africa,    Sir    H.    H. 

Johnston's,  438. 
Colorado  Desert,  409. 
Comb6,  Surinam,  252. 
Comenius,  John  Amos,  14,  391. 
Commewijne  River,  259. 
Conference  System,  193. 
Congo,  489,  508. 
Conkras,  The,  326. 
Constantinople,  157f,  161,  201. 
Continental  Province,  463f,  503f. 
Cook,   423f. 

Cooktown,  Australia,  417. 
Coolies,  The,  250,  257f,  391,  510. 
Cooper,  Fenimore,  85f. 
Cooper,  Mrs.,  212. 
Copenhagen,  16,  23f,  26f,  29,  37,  40, 

45,  57,  59f,  65,  67,  173,  242. 
Copenkrisi,  Surinam,  267. 
Coppename  River,  121,  258. 
Copts,  The,  161f,  164. 
Coral  Bay,  36. 
Corentyne  River,  119. 
Cornelius,  Native  Helper,  49. 
Coromandel  Coast,  6,  164,  202. 
Cossart,  Henry,   161. 
Cottica  River,  121,  256f. 
Council  of  Policy,  126f. 
Countess  of  Huntingdon's  Connection, 

487. 
Covenant  of  the  Three  Brethren,  68. 
Cowper,  William,  237. 
Craddock,  Sir  John,  276. 
Craig,  General,  276. 
Cranz,  David,  194. 
Creed,  Dr.,  354. 
Creoles,  31,  324,  334. 
Crichton,  J.  W.,  490. 
CrSger,  E.  W.,  167. 
Cromlin,  Governor,   121. 
Cruse,  The,  Jamaica,  212. 
Cuba,  509. 
Cullen  Point,  421. 
Cumberland  Inlet,  236,  489. 


Cummings  Lodge,  391. 
Curtis,  Lieutenant,  138. 
Cyril,  158. 

Czecho -Slovakia,  503. 
Czechs,  The,  477,  600. 


D&hne,  Louis  Christopher,   11,   119, 

175. 
Daily  Mail,  303,  436. 
Dakura,  Nicaragua,  336,  338. 
Dale,  R.  W.,  152. 
Dallas-Clarendon  Treaty,  345. 
Dalman,  Dr.,   152,  381. 
Dalton,  Dr.,  490. 
Daniel,  Henry,  29. 
Danish  College  of  Missions,  5,  59f, 

67,   181. 
Danish  Missionaries,  131,  242ff,  329, 

508. 
Danish  State  Church,  243. 
Danke,  John  Henry,  162,  164. 
Dar  es-Salam,   457. 
Davey,  J.  W.,  164,  484. 
David,  Christian,  10,  69f,  65f,  68,  117. 
Dead  Sea,  383. 
Deborah  of  Labrador,  143. 
Deep  Sea  Mission,  309,  312. 
Dehm,  23. 

Delaware  River,   102. 
Dela wares,    83,    102-111,    115,    182, 

246f,  396,  398. 
Delbo,  C,  413. 
Demerara,    117,   388-393,   465,   473, 

489,  510. 
Demole,  Pastor,  489. 
Denmark,   12f,   15,  23f,  26,  41,  48, 

332,  486. 
Derryarnish,    432. 
Detroit,   11  If. 
Deycke,  Dr.,  379. 
Dickie,  The,  418. 
Dickson,  William,  214. 
Dingwall,  John,  391f,  500. 
Disko,   Greenland,   72. 
Divinity  of  Our  Lord,  The,  Liddon's, 

151. 
Dobor,  Jamaica,  227. 
Dober,    Leonard,    llf,    16-19,   21-24. 

26f,  29,  34-38,  57,  59,  131,  148, 

173,  176,  178,  181,  463,  495. 
Domburg,  Surinam,  265. 
Dominica,  490. 
Dominicans,   161. 
Douglas,  Hon.  John,  418,  427f. 
Downs,  Mary,  334f. 
Doyl«,  Arthur  Conan,  364. 


Index. 


587 


Drachart,    Lawrence,    23,     133-136, 

186,  301. 
Drakensberge,  296. 
Dresden,  4,  9,   147. 
Dresden  Socrates,  The,  147. 
Drummond,  Henry,  440. 
Dry  Salt  Lake,  409. 
Dublin,  477. 
Ducie  River,  427. 
Duncan,  Jane  Ellen,  365,  373. 
Dundee,  236,  489. 
Dungeon,  423. 

Dutch  Auxiliary  Society,   189,   195. 
Dutch    East    India    Company,    126f, 

177,    181. 
Dutch  Reformed  Church,  30,  41,  127, 

157,   182,  250,  502. 
Dutch  Trading  Company,  117. 
Dutchess  County,  83. 
Duyfhen  Point,*  432. 

East  India  Company,  5. 

East  Indies,  4f. 

East  London,  South   Africa,   293. 

Eastern  Counties  Clerical  Association, 

501. 
Ebenezer,  Australia,  346,  350ff,  355. 
Economy,  at  Bethlehem,  82. 
Ecuador,  489. 
Edinburgh,  303,  436,  501. 
Edinburgh  Association,  478,  486. 
Edkins,  Pastor,  489. 
Edward  VII.,  498. 
Edwards,  William,   199. 
Egede,    Hans,    20,    57-61,    65ff,    69, 

71,  174. 
Egerton,  Sir  Walter,  393. 
Egypt,  162ff,  202. 
Einsler,  Dr.,  378ff,  383. 
Elias,  288,  294f,  484. 
Elim,  Cape  Colony,  281,  486. 
Ehm,  Jamaica,  51. 
EUer,  Dr.,  157,  172. 
Elliott,  Captain,  112. 
Ellis,  Bishop  F.,  338. 
Ellis,  John,  208,  210-213,  216f. 
Ellis,  Trapp,  77. 
Elmina,  156. 

Elukolweni,   HlubUand,   288,   297. 
Emancipation,  213,   216f,  230f,  281. 
Embley  River,  435. 
Emmaus,  St.  John,  49,  231. 
Encydopoedia  Britannica,   185. 
England,  12,  20,  109f,  198,  218,  225, 

272,   304,   342,   374f,    388,   420, 

463,  470,  480f,  484ff,  488f,  504, 

507. 


English  Aborigines  Protection  Society, 

489. 
English  Bank,  Nicaragua,  325,  329. 
English  in  the  West  Indies,  Froude's, 

228f. 
English  Malady,  The,  178. 
Engotini,  Cape  Colony,  288. 
Enon,  Cape  Colony,  281,  290. 
Enquiry     into     the     Obligations     of 

Christians,  Carey's,  198. 
Entwanazana,  Tembuland,  288,  293. 
Entumasi,  Hlubiland,  288,  297. 
Ephraim,  Surinam,   119. 
Ephrata,  Nicaragiia,  330,  337. 
Erdmann,   Friedrich,   316. 
Erdmuth  Dorothea,  9. 
Erhardt,  John  Christian,  131,  307. 
Eskimo  Dictionary.  Erdmann's,  316. 
Eskimos,    57f,    60-65,    131-145,    176, 

186,  188,  300-316,  394-407,  497f, 

512. 
Eskimos  about  Behring  Strait,  The, 

Nelson's,  397. 
F^trada,  General,  343. 
Estridge,  St.  Kitts,  231. 
Ethiopian  Church,  284. 
Evening  Prayer,  ZiniendorTs,  91. 
Ezincuka,    Hlubiland,    288,    296ff. 


Fabricius,  Greorge,  100. 

Faden,  Nicholas,  258. 

Fairfield,  Canada,  246. 

Fairfield,    Jamaica,    210-216,     219f, 

223-226,  391,  481f. 
Fan  of  Tomgak,  Davey's,  484. 
Fawcett,  322. 
Feder,  Albin,  46,  172. 
Ferdinand,  Archduke,  495,  503. 
Fiabarema,  446. 
Finances,   176,   189,  304f,  469,  478, 

484-491. 
Fingoos,  The,  277. 
First  Berlin  Mission,  492. 
First  Fruits  Idea,  183,  192f. 
Fliegel,  237. 
Florida,  490. 
Folk    Lore    in    the    Old    Testament, 

Frazer's,  397,  456. 
Ford,  420. 
Fort  Allen,  101. 
Foster,  William,  50f. 
Fox  Channel,  490. 
Fozzard,  Jolm,  55,  199. 
France,  500,  507. 
Francis  of  Demerara,  391. 
Francke,  A.  H.,  361,  365. 


538 


A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 


Francke,   August   Hermann,   5ff.   9, 

14,  174. 
Franklin,  Benjamin,  101,  301. 
Frazer,  Sir  J.  G.,  397,  456. 
Freeh.  Theobald,  136. 
Frederick  IV.,  58. 

Frederick  V.,  King  of  Denmark,  177. 
Frederiksdal,  Greenland,  236. 
Fremantle,  Dean,  487. 
Freiwillige  Nachlese,  153. 
Freuudlich,  42. 
Frey,  98. 

Fnedensberg,  St.  Croix,  49,  231. 
Friedensfeld,  St.  Croix,  231. 
Friedenshiitten,  North  America,  103ff. 
Friedenstadt,  North  America,  106. 
Friedensthal,  St.  Croix,  48,  231. 
Froude,   James   Anthony,   228f. 
Fulneck,  Jamaica,  214,  225f. 
Fuhieck  School,  195. 

Gaarde,  508. 

Galizas,  General,  340. 

Gambier,  Admiral,  300. 

Ganassatico,  King,  96. 

Ganges  River,  357. 

Gansee,  Surinam,  256. 

Gardelin,  Governor,  35. 

Gardiner,  50,  55. 

Garland,  Canon,  435. 

Garrison,   Captain,    185. 

Garth,  Mrs.,  330. 

Gekelemukpechunck,  Ohio,  106. 

Gelelemend,  398. 

Genadendal,  South  Africa,  269,  276- 

279,  281,  284,  286,  289f,  478,  481. 

484f,  502. 
George  II.,  76. 
George  III.,  109,  133,  136. 
George  Frederick,  King  of  Moskito, 

323. 
Georgetown,  Demerara,  391. 
Georgia,  78-81,  198,  246,  248. 
Gerard,  37. 

German  East  Africa,  437f,  456,  466. 
German   Nyassaland,   438. 
Germany,  486,  488,  500,  503ff. 
Oeschichte    der    Erneuerten    BrUder- 

kirche,  168. 
Gingee,  Surinam,  266. 
Gladstone,   Mrs.,   487. 
Olad  Tidings,  88. 

Glasgow  Auxiliary  Society,  478,  486. 
Glasgow  Missionary   Society,   201. 
Glikkikan,  106,  114. 
Gnadenhtltten,  on  the  Mahony,  95, 

99,  101  f,  105,  186. 


Gnadenhiitten,  Ohio,  108,  112f,  115. 
Gobat,  Bishop,  374,  384. 
Godhaab,  Greenland,  59,  61,  67,  236. 
Goedverwacht,    South    Africa,    281. 
Oood  Intent,  The,  301. 
Good  Message,  The,  484. 
Gorke,  John,  237. 
Gorlitz,  17. 

Goshen,  Cape  Colony,  288,  293. 
Goshen,  Ohio,  115f,  246. 
Goshgoschunck,  Ohio,  104ff. 
Gottwalt,  55. 
Grabenstein,  176. 
Grabow,  Brandenburg,  11. 
Gracebay,   Antigua,   56. 
Gracefield,  Antigua,  232. 
Gracehill,  Antigua,  53,  56. 
Gradin,  Arvid,  158,  160f,  172. 
Graham's     Hall,     Demerara,    388ff, 

392. 
Gralisch,  164. 
Grant  of  Demerara,  391. 
Grant  System,  The,  277,  281f,  289, 

292f. 
Grassman,  Andrew,  72f,  155f,  170. 
Great  Britam,  257,  321f,  325,  344f, 

478,  503f. 
Great  War,  The,  177,  393,  406,  450, 

458,  493,  502f. 
Greek   Church,    158,    160,    166,   377, 

385,  394.  400,  404,  501. 
Green,  Edmund,  211. 
Greenbay,  Antigua,  232. 
Greenland,    lOff,    17,   20,   23,   67-77, 

79,  118,  131,  134,  137,  144,  170, 

174f,    177,    185,    188,    191,    193, 

201f,    236-245,    397,    399,    465, 

473,  479f,  482,  499f. 
Greenlanders,  9,  19,  236-245  (see  also 

Eskimos). 
Gregson,  Gelson,  490. 
Grenfell,  Dr.  W.  T.,  309f,  316. 
Grey,  Sir  George,  276,  293,  346,  499. 
Greytown,  Nicaragua,  321,  330,  344. 
Griffith,  Sir  Samuel,  417. 
Grillich,  John,  237. 
Groenekloof,  South  Africa,  276,  487. 
Groot  Chatillon,  Surinam,  264f. 
Gross-Hennersdorf,    Saxony,    4f. 
Grossmann,  343. 
Grothausen,  Dr.,  27. 
Gruhl,  164. 

GrOnbeck,  Esther,  153. 
Grundler,  6,  7f. 
Grunewald,  G.,  329,  343. 
Guinea,  166,  201. 
Qiitzlaff,  Dr.,  367,  489. 


Index. 


589 


Haberecht,  Gottlieb,  51. 

Hagenauer,  Frederick  Augustus,  350, 
352,  354f,  416,  499. 

Haidt,   183. 

Half -penny  Union,  486. 

HaU,  Robert,  214. 

Hall,  Samuel,  337. 

Hall,  Wmiam,  214. 

Hallbeck,  Hans  Peter,  280,  484,  500. 

Halle,  6ff,  24,  126. 

Haller,  John,  261f,  265. 

Hamilton,  50,  55. 

Hamilton,  Bishop  J.  T.,  14,  437. 

Hanover,  162. 

H&nsel,  John  Gotfried,  165. 

Hansina  Hinz,  Schneider's,  484. 

Hardie,  A.,  416,  418. 

Harmony,  The,  301ff,  307f,  512. 

Harmony  of  the  Gospels,  Lieberkuhn's, 
115,  154. 

Hartmann,  Adolphus,  248,  394. 

Hartmann,  Mrs.,  256. 

Harvard  Uruversity,  116. 

Harvey,  Bennett,  54. 

Hassan,  162. 

Hasse,  Bishop  E.  R.,  501. 

Hass^,  Otto  William,  153. 

Hauck^a  Real-  Encyclopcedie,  167. 

Hausmann.  Pastor,  489. 

Haven,  Jens,  23,  131-134,  136,  141, 
301,  484,  500. 

Hayti,  490. 

Heber,  Dr.,  364,  371. 

Hebron,  Labrador,  300,  308,  310,  512. 

Hebron,  Palestine,  382. 

Heckewelder,  John,  112f. 

Heckmondwike,  225. 

Hedor,  The,  302. 

Heerendyke,  Holland,  117. 

Heerendvke,  Surinam,  255. 

Hegner,  J.  R.,  194. 

Heilitz,  Inspector,  353. 

Heinze,   Christian,   237. 

Helena,  268f,  275. 

Heller,  23. 

Helpers'    Conference,   471. 

Hemel-en-Aarde,    276,    284f,    374. 

Henry,  37. 

Herr,  55. 

Herrmann,  162f. 

Hermhaag,  74,  500. 

Hermhut,  Saxony,  lOf,  13f,  16,  19f, 
22ff,  26,  28,  34,  37ff,  45-48,  59f, 
65,  76,  78,  98,  119,  126,  129, 
131,  142,  147,  lo6f,  161,  I70f, 
I83f,  186,  193,  198,  266,  323, 
357,  470,  480,  483,  503. 


Hettasch,  Paul,  310. 

Hey,  Nicholas,  416-421,  425ff,  429 

435,  499,  506. 
Hey,  Mrs.,  431f,  506. 
Heyde,  Augustus  William,  357,  361f, 

366,  370. 
Heyde,  H.  B.,  261f,  264. 
Hibbert  Journal,  20. 
Hill,  Rowland,  54,  200,  487. 
Hillsborough,  Lord,  134. 
Hindoos,  The.  362,  391. 
Hinz,  John,  397. 
Hirschberg,  Sjoiod  at,  167. 
Hirschel,  Zechariah,  168f. 
History  of  Christian  Missions,  Robin- 
son's, 55. 
History    of    Christian    Missions    in 

South  Africa,  du  Plessis',  273. 
History  of  Evangelical  Missions  in  the 

East,  Francke's,  6. 
History  of  Greenland,  Cranz's,  194. 
History  of  Pietism,  Ritschl's,  7. 
History  of  Protestant  Missions, 

Wameck's,  186. 
History  of  the  L.M.S.,  Home's,  201. 
History  of  the  Mission  in  St.  Thomas, 

St.  Croix,   and  St.   Jan,   Olden- 
dorp's,  194. 
History  of  the  Mission  to  the  North 

American  Indians,  Loskiel's,  194. 
History    of    the     Moravian    Church, 

Cranz's,  194. 
History    of    the    Moravian    Church, 

Hegner's,  194. 
Hlubiland,  South  Africa,  288, 295-299, 

438. 
Hocker,  Christian  Frederick  William, 

160ff,  164,  172. 
Hogg,  Ethel  M.,  388. 
Hogg,  Major,  291. 
Hogg,  Quintin,  388f,  391,  489. 
Holland,   117,   126,   254f,  257,  266f, 

272,  274,  276,  486,  500. 
Honey,  Dr.,  284f. 
Hooker,   Native   Helper,   400. 
Hoop  (or  Hope),  Surinam,  120,  190. 
Hopedale,  Labrador,  139,  144f,  300, 

310f,  512. 
Home,  Rev,  C.  Silvester,  201. 
Horsham,  Australia,  351. 
Hottentots,    The,    126-130,    266-287, 

291f,  481,  499. 
Huckoff,   Henry,   156. 
Hudson's  Bay  Company,  311. 
Huesco  River,  345. 
Huguenots,  30. 
Hungary,  12,  600. 


540 


A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 


Huron,  114. 

Hutt,  Major,  346,  489. 

Button,  A.  B.,  234. 

Hutton,  Dr.  S.  K.,  310f,  313,  315. 

Hutton,  Mrs.,  310. 

Hutton,  James,  131,  134,  140. 

Ibrahim,  164. 

Idea  Fidei  Fratrum,  Spangenberg's, 

267. 
Igdlorpait,  Greenland,  236,  244. 
Ileya,  Nyassa,  448. 
Immortality,   Heathen  ideas  of,   85, 

129,  328,  348,  356,  398,  425,  442, 

455f. 
In  Distant  Heathen  Lands,  484. 
Independents,  487. 
Indian  Territory,  U.S.A.,  248f,  408, 

411. 
Indians,  Moskito,  321-345. 
Indians,    North    American,    10,    52, 

78-116,  170,  176,  186,  191,  246- 

249,  408-41.5,  484,  498. 
Indians,    South    American,    117-120, 

510f. 
Indus  Valley,  507. 
Inleesha,   164. 
Inatitutum    Judaicum,     Callenberg's, 

160. 
Instructions  for  Brethren  and  Sisters, 

Spangenberg's,  476. 
Instructions     to     Missionaries,     Zin- 

zendorf's,  78,  175,  178,  182. 
Ipiana,  Nyassa,  448,  450f. 
Ipole,  Unyamwezi,  454. 
Ipswich,  Jamaica,  227. 
Ireland,  500. 
Irene,  The,  76,  185. 
Iroquois,  The,  83,  91-103. 
Irwin,  Major,  346. 
Irwin  Hill,  Jamaica,  210,  214,  220. 
Ifeles,  Samuel,  53,  199. 
Isoko,  Nyassa,  448,  450f. 
Ispahan,  160, 
Israel,  Gottlieb,  46ff,  118,  181,  186, 

188. 
Iversen,   Jorgen,   Governor,   30. 

J.  G.  Ward,  The,  436. 

Jablonsky,  Daniel  Ernest,  79,  169. 

Jackman,  50,  65. 

Jackson,  Captain,  303. 

Jackson,  Dr.  Sheldon,  394,  403,  489. 

Jackson,  Helen  Hunt,  408. 

Jackson,  Joseph,  199,  208. 

Jaergenson,  238. 

Jalla,  Louis,  490. 


Jamaica,  46,  50ff,  66,  89,  188,  193, 

198f,   207  230,   232,   321ff,   335, 

340,    344,    355,    480-483,    486, 

498,   509. 
Jamaica  Courant,  215, 
Jamaica  in  1801,  Lady  Nugent's,  208. 
James  of  Nicaragua,  332. 
Janie  of  Alaska,  402. 
Japan,  490, 
Japanese,  The,  404. 
Jardine  River,  427. 
Jaschke,  Andrew,  158, 
Jaschke,  Henry  Augustus,  360ff, 
Javanese,  The,  257,  259,  510. 
Jedda,  162. 
Jemima,  The,  302, 
Jensen,  Stephen,  23,  134,  136,  301. 
Jeremiah  of  Okak,  313, 
Jersey  Packet,  The,  134,  301. 
Jerusalem   (Leper  Home),   255,  286, 

355,    374-387,    473,    489,    504, 

507, 
Jessica's  First  Prayer,  314, 
Jesuits,  13,  161, 

Jews,  The,  146-155,  183f,  201,  250. 
Jimmy  of  Mapoon,  433. 
Johannesburg,    South    Africa,    293,      jj 

490.  ' 

John,  John  F.,  199. 
Johnson,  Dr.,  134,  194. 
Johnston,  Sir  Harry  H.,  438. 
Joppa,  383. 

Jordan  Valley,  382.  , 

Joseph,  Rabbi,  154,  .| 

Julienhaab,  244.  i 

Jtirgensen,  Jean  Paul,  23,  329,  33  Iff, 
Juigensen,  Mrs.,  332f. 
Juvenile  Missionary  Association,  226, 

485, 

Kabagomato,  Chief,  453. 
Kaestner,  Louis,  309, 
Kaffir  Wais,  278,  298,  499. 
Kaffirs,     288-299,     478,     484,    490, 

499. 
Kaffraria,  276,  298,  608. 
Kaimanston,  Surinam,  257. 
Kalatse,  Western  Tibet,  388f. 
Kanahooka,  The,  428, 
Kandler,  330. 
Kanjek,   Greenland,   72. 
Kansas,    248, 
Kant,  Lydia,  364. 
Kapik,  144, 
Karaites,  149, 

Karata,  Nicaragua,  330,  336. 
Kashgar,  489. 


Index. 


541 


Kaskan,  362. 

EaBwika,  Chief,  457. 

Kayamak,  70ff,  188,  237,  399. 

Keffenbrink-Ascheraden,       Baroness, 
374f,  489. 

Kersten  &  Co.,  250,  253,  269f,  469, 
478,  485. 

Kettering,  3,  201. 

Kidd,  Benjamin,  354. 

Kilbuck,  John  Henry,  395,  398-401, 
500. 

Kilbuck,  Mrs.,  396,  399. 

Killinek,  Labrador,  300,  305,  312. 

Kim,  Kipling's.  368. 

King,  John,  256. 

Kingspoint,  Eskimo  Bay,  135. 

Kingston,  Jamaica,  198,  219,  227. 

Kingston  Chronicle,  215. 

King    Williamstown,    South    Africa, 
293. 

Kipembabwe,  Unyamwezi,  464. 
r     Kipling,  Rudyard,  368. 

Kirchhof,  David,  163. 

Kirman,  161. 

Kitunda,  Unyamwezi,  454. 

Kleinschmidt,  John,  190,  238. 

Kleinschmidt,  Samuel,  238,  242. 

Klipplaat  River,  288. 

Kluge,  H.,  484. 

Klukumlaya,  Nicaragua,  329. 

KofEimaka  Negroes,  121,  256. 
^     Koffykamp,  Surinam,  256. 

Kohlmeister,  190. 
;      Kondeland,  438f,  444f,  448. 

Kfinigsberg,  Baden,  481. 

Konigseer,  Sophia,  237. 

Kopperamanna,  Lake,  355. 

Krakau,  Daniel,  437,  486. 

Kramer,  355. 

Kranich,  John  F.,  237. 

ELreusano,  155. 

Kfthnel,  John  Christian,  267,  273. 

Kukulaya,  Nicaragua,  330. 

Kulu  VaUey,  507. 

Kunawar,  362. 
t      Kund,  Michael,  159. 

Kunewalde,   Moravia,    10. 

Kurban,  Kasis  Farhud,  386f. 
^     Kurdistan,  490. 

Kurds,  The,   160f. 

Kuskokwim  River,  395,  404. 

Kuster,  286, 

Kwattahede,  Surinam,  266. 
■     Kybodo,  272. 

Kvelang,    Western    Tibet,    368-362, 
607. 

KyimbilA,  Nyassa,  448. 


Labrador,     23,     76,     131-145,     186, 

188-191,  193,  199,  201f,  300-316, 

374,   395ff,   473,  478,  480,  482, 

484,  496-499,  512. 
Labrador  Doctor,  A,  Grenfell's,  316. 
Ladak,  357f.  360,  362. 
Ladak  News,  The,  361. 
Ladies'  Associations,  486. 
Ladies'  Negro  Education  Society,  212. 
Lahoul,  358. 

La  Jolla,  California,  410,  416. 
Lake,  General,  489. 
Lamas,  358ff,  363,  366-373. 
Lamington,  Lord,  435. 
Lamp,  490. 

Lancaster,  Jamaica,  61. 
Landon,  Perceval,  366. 
Lang,  John,  207-210. 
Lange,  Conrad,  159-175. 
L'Anse  Noir,  Trinidad,  234. 
Lapland,  12f,  17,  155f,  201. 
Laplanders,  9,   19,   155. 
Last  of  the  Mohicans,  The,  Cooper's, 

86. 
La  Trobe,  Benjamin,  194. 
La    Trobe,    Bishop    Benjamin,    308, 

495. 
La  Trobe,  Bishop  James,  374f. 
La    Trobe,    Christian    Ignatius,    64, 

189f,  195ff,  200f,  281,  289,  300, 

487. 
La  Trobe,  Joseph,  346. 
Laugh  ton,  Captain,  489. 
Laurwig,  Count,  15f. 
Layasiksa,  Nicaragua,  330. 
Leach,  William,  486. 
League  of  Help,  497. 
Lebanon,  Antigua,  232. 
Lieeds   489 
Leh,  'western    Tibet,    367f,    363ff, 

371f,  484. 
Lehigh  River,  81. 
Leibnitz,  5,  13. 
Leitner,  Peter,  286. 
Leliendal,  Surinam,  255,  259. 
Leominster,  486. 
Lepers,    2o4f,    276,    284ff,    374-387, 

451,  499,   502,   608,   510. 
Letters     on     the     Nicobar     Islands, 

Hansel's,  165. 
Letters  to  my  Children,  La  Trobe's,  195. 
Leupold,  Tobias,  16f,  19,  22,  38,  48. 
Lewis,  George,  208t 
Lhasa,  358,  362,  372. 
Lhasa,  Landon's,  366. 
Libbey,  J.  N.,  168. 
libya,  161. 


542 


A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 


Liohtenau,  Greenland,  75,  236,  238, 

244. 
Lichtenau,  Ohio,  108,  HI. 
Lichtenfels,  Greenland,  75,  236,  238. 
Liddon,  Canon,  151, 
Lieberkuhn,    Samuel,    115,    149-162, 

154. 
Lier,  Hesperus  Ritzman  van,  266. 
Life  of  David  Livingstone,  430. 
Life  of  Willie  Wimmera,  352. 
Light,  James,  214. 
Lincoln,  Abraham,  268. 
Lindsay  House,  Chelsea,  140. 
Lipscombe,  Bishop,  215. 
Lisier,  Christian,  136,  199. 
Lititz,  Jamaica,  211,  217,  226, 
Little  Tracts,  Kluge's,  484, 
Little  Whetstone,  401. 
Living  Christ  and  the   Four  GoapeU, 

Dale's,  152. 
Livingstone  College,  310. 
Livingstone  Hills,  438. 
Livingstonia  Mission,  492. 
Livonia,  160,  202. 
Lebschutz,  Upper  Silesia,  11. 
LShans,  Valentine,  43f. 
Lohans,  Mrs.,  43. 
London,  4,  8,  55,  76,  78,  96,   131, 

133f,    137,    140,   146,    168,    178, 

302ff,  347,  388,  485!,  504,  512. 
London     Association     in     Aid     of 

Moravian  Missions,  212, 223, 486f. 
London  Medical  Mission,  490. 
London  Missionary  Society,  54,  199ff, 

452f,  463,  489,  492. 
London      Society      for      promoting 

Christianity  amongst  the  Jews, 

154. 
Lorenzen,  29,  37* 
Los  Angeles,  409,  412. 
Loskiel,  George  Henry,  194. 
Lot,  Use  of,  15,  21,  38,  93,  120,  162, 

168,   172f,   190f,  476. 
Louis,  Native  Helper,  238. 
Louis  XVI.,  King  of  Prance,  301. 
Ludidi,  297. 
Luna,  Dr.,  342f. 
Lutherans,   9,    11,    19,    22,    24,    30, 

183,  250,  501f, 
Liitken,  Dr.,  5. 

Macartney,  Lord,  276. 
MacDonald,  Colonel,  321,  344. 
MacGregor,  Sir  William,  311,  499. 
MachiwishUusing,   Pa.,   103. 
Mack,  John  Martin,  49,  79,  95,  112. 
Mftckay  of  Uganda,  437,  489. 


Magazines,    Missionary,     ld4f,    390, 

392,  475f,  502. 
Magdala,  Nicaragua,  329f,  334ff. 
Magdalene  of  St.  Thomas,  44. 
Magorugampcll,  Ceylon,  157. 
Mahometans,  14,  164,  234,  250,  259, 

287,    365,    377,    382,    384-388, 

454,  457f,  497,  508. 
Mahony,  River,  95,  99. 
Makkovik,  Labrador,  300,  311. 
Malabar,  126,  490. 
Malays,  346. 
Malone,  284. 
Malta,  500. 

Mamre,  Cape  Colony,  281, 485, 
Managua,  Treaty  of,  345. 
Manantial,  Trinidad,  234. 
Manchester,  Parish  of,  Jamaica,  211. 
Mandeville,  Jamaica,  215. 
Manittoes,  85. 
Mankendorf,  Moravia,  10, 
Manners,  Charlie,  423. 
Manual  of  Doctrine,  Beck's,  361. 
ManzaniUa,  Trinidad,  234. 
Mapasa,  290f. 
Mapoon,    North     Queensland,    418, 

420f,  423,  427ff,  431-436,  506. 
Marienbom,  73,  148. 
Maripastoon,  Surinam,  256. 
Maroni  River,  121. 
Maroons,  217. 
Marriage  Customs,  261-265,  326,  424, 

440f. 
Marshman,  199. 

Marsveld,  Henry,  267f,  271,  600. 
Martha  of  Tibet,  366. 
Martin,  Augustus,  329f,  335. 
Martin,  Bishop,  314. 
Martin,  Frederick,  11,  38-46,  48f,  91, 

95,  169,  176,  182,  186,  188,  484, 

500. 
Martin,  George,  439. 
Martinez,   California,   409,   41  If. 
Martinique,  36. 
Martins,  27. 

Marx,  Dr.  Carl,  364,  372. 
Matelot,  Trinidad,  234. 
Matilda,  Princess,  324. 
Matthiesen,  23. 
Matuari  Negroes,  256. 
Maud  of  Mapoon,  506. 
Maurice,  Native  Helper,  244. 
Mawanda,  440,  448. 
May  Day  Hills,  Jamaica,  210. 
Maynard,  Constance,  20. 
Mbozi,  Nyassa,  448,  450. 
Mcintosh,  General,  HI, 


X 


Index. 


548 


Mecca,  162. 

Medical  Missions,  363f,  402f,  452. 

Meier,  457. 

Meissel,  Gottlieb,  351,  355f. 

Melbourne,  346,  349-353,  356,  416f, 
428. 

Meniolagomeka,  95. 

Merere,  439,  444f. 

Mesopotamia,  490,  505. 

Mesopotamia,   Jamaica,   208,   214. 

Messenger  of  Peace,  The,  330. 

Messenger,  Moravian,  376. 

Mela,  The,  342. 

Metcalf,  John,  199. 

Methodists,  487,  601. 

Methodius,  158. 

Meyer,  Henry,  288,  296f,  438. 

Meyer,  Theodore,  438f,  444. 

Meyer,  Mrs.,  445. 

Meyer's  Pass,  297. 

Mico  Institution,  219,  489. 

Middleton,  Ladv,  195. 

Middleton,  Sir  Charles,  195. 

Mieksch,   166. 

Mikak,  140. 

Miller,  James,  211. 

Mingo,  43. 

Miracle  of  Mapoon,  Ward's,  428,  484. 

Mission  Board,  211,  218,  232,  242, 
263ff,  308,  322,  325,  339,  362f, 
357,  374,  388f,  416,  437,  463, 
465-471,  491f,  495,  497,  604f. 

Mission  College,  470,  480f,  494. 

Missionary  Studies,  Burkhardt's,  484. 

Missions-Blatt,  470,  476. 

Mite  Association,  485. 

Mizpah,  Jamaica,  227. 

Mkulwe,  456. 

Mohawks,  85,  91,  95,  102. 

Mohicans,  81-90. 

Mongolia,  357,  489. 

Monteith,  Archibald,  208. 

Montgomery,  James,  30,  55.  199. 

Montgomery,  John,  55,  199. 

Montgomery,  Tobago,  234. 

Montserrat,  489. 

Moody,  D.  L.,  388. 

Moore,  Henrv,  389ff. 

Moravia,  9-12,  43,  59,  65,  79,  126, 158, 

Moravia,  Jamaica,  227. 

Moravian  Hill,  South  Africa,  287. 

Moravian  Hope,  South  Africa,  287. 

Moravian  Missionary  Society, 
Jamaica,  486. 

Moravian  Missions,  228,  233,  392. 

Morgan,  Colonel,  108. 

Moriah,  Tobago,  234. 


Morongo,  Captain  John,  409,  414. 

Morton,  John  Thomas,  490f. 

Mt.  Graybok,  409. 

Mt.  Tabor,  Barbados,  233. 

Moscow,  159. 

Moses  of  Labrador,  143. 

Moskito  Coast,  23,  321ff,  326f,  332, 

334,  339ff,  344f,  355,  479,  484, 

489.  499. 
Moule,  H.  C.  G.,  487. 
Mueia,  Nyassa,  448. 
Mulattoes,  31. 
Mulgrave,  Earl,  215. 
Muller,  Dr.,  of  Vienna.  361. 
Muller,  Dr.  J.  T.,  167,  377. 
Muller,  Dr.  Max,  361. 
Mailer,  Elizabeth,  377. 
Mailer,  Fritz,  376-379. 
Muller,  J.,  237. 

Munchroth,  Wurtemberg,  11. 
Murkkikandi,  443. 
Muskingum,  108. 
Muskito  Bay,  St.  Thomas,  44. 
Mvenyane,  Hlubiland,  288,  299. 
Myalism,  220ff,  226. 

Nachrichien   aiu  der    BrUdergemeine, 

194. 
Nahoe,  Jamaica,  226. 
Nain,  Labrador,  137f,  146,  300,  309f 

313,  512. 
Nain,  Pa.,  102. 
Nakin,  John,  297. 
Napier,  Sir  George,  277. 
Napoleonic  Wars,  272,  476,  486. 
Nathan,   309. 
Nathaniel  of  Nain,  313. 
Nattaniel  of  Tibet,  366. 
Native  Church  Idea,  224,  261,  284 

450,  491-494,  497,  509. 
Native  Helpers  and  Evangelists,  44, 

214,    216,    234,    238,    241,    244, 

256,   287,   293,   299,    307,   400f, 

403,  406,  447,  449,  454,  492. 
Native  Ministers,  224,  227,  232,  235, 

239,    243,    261,    297,    389,    479, 

482f,  492. 
Natural  Reflections,  Zinzendorfs,  7, 

177. 
Nazareth,  Pa.,  81f. 
Negro  School  Fund,  212. 
Neisser,  Joseph,  10,  136,  142, 
Nelson,  E.  W.,  397. 
Netawetwes,  106,  109f. 
Neumeister,  9. 
New  Account  of  Guinea  and  the  Slave 

Trade,  Snelgrave's,  195, 


544 


A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 


New  England  Society,  87. 
New  Bambey,  Surinam,  124. 
New   Bethlehem,   Jamaica,  211. 
New  Carmel,  Jamaica,  51,  56,  211, 

213f,  225. 
New  Eden,  Jamaica,  2101,  214f. 
New  Fairfield,  Canada,  115,  246-249. 
New  Gnadenhiitten,  North  America, 

114f. 
New  Hermhut,  Greenland,  61,   69f, 

74f,   236,   238. 
New  Herrnhut,  St.  Thomas,  39,  44, 

230. 
New  HoUand,  475. 
New  Hope,  Jamaica,  217,  226. 
New  Salem,  North  America,  114f. 
New  Springplace,  Georgia,  248. 
New  York,  56,  83,  85,  94ff,  101,  185, 

255. 
New  Zealand,  276,  346. 
Newby,  Joseph,  199. 
Newfield,  Antigua,  232. 
Newfoundland,  131,  301,  311. 
Newton,  Jamaica,  210,  221. 
Nicaragua,   321-345,  465,  473,  496f, 

604,  511. 
Nicaragua,  Lake,  321. 
Nickerie,  Surinam,  266. 
Nicobar  Islands,  165f,  202,  490. 
Nicodemus  of  Tibet,  366. 
Niesky,  St.   Thomas,  49,   230. 
Niesky,  Silesia,  130,  478,  481. 
Nile,  River,  164. 
Nitschmann,  David,  22,  26-28,  33f, 

40,  43,  79f,  157,  169f,  173,  186, 

198. 
Nitschmann,  John,  166. 
Nitschmann,  Martin,  99. 
Nitschmann,  Mrs.,  99. 
Nitschmanns,  The,  10. 
Noailles,  Cardinal,  8. 
Noel,  Lady,  487. 
Nmdlyset,  The,  244. 
North,  Goodwin,  225. 
Northern    Missionary    Society,    201. 
Northern  Star,  The,  310. 
North-Schleswig  Union,  486. 
Norway,  500. 
Nottingham,  198. 

Noviasima  Sinica,  Leibnitz's,  6,  13. 
Nubra,  362. 
Nugent,  Lady,  208. 
Nushagak  River,  403. 
Nxotchane,  Hlubiland,  288. 
Nyassa,  437-452,  454f.  465,  473,  489, 

497,  508. 
Nyassa,  Lake,  437ff,  444,  453. 


Nyika,  439,  448,  462. 

Obeahiam,   122f,   208,  220,  609. 

Ockbrook  School,  485. 

Ogavik,  Alaska,  401,  403. 

Ogle's  Industry,  Demerara,  391. 

O'Hara,   James,    311. 

Ohio,  83,  106f,  109ff,  115,  246. 

Okak,  Labrador,  139,  300,  305f,  310, 

313f,  512. 
Okeden,  Pariv,  436. 
Old  Carmel,  Jamaica,  89,  207,  209ff. 
Old  Charley  of  Victoria,  351. 
Oldendorp,  G.  A.,  194. 
Oneidas,  91,  93. 
Onin,  246. 

Onondaga,  Pa.,  96-99,  102,  104. 
Onondagas,  91,  115. 
Ontario,  Lake,  83,  96. 
Oochgelogy,  Georgia,  248. 
Oonalaska,  394. 
Oppelt,  Mrs.   Von,  489. 
Older  of  the  Mustard  Seed,  8,  146. 
Orkneys,  The,  303,  505. 
Orinoco,  River,   118. 
Ormond  College,  Missionary  Society, 

428. 
Omatti,  The,  294. 
Ossessi,  Chief,  257. 
Ostergren,  156. 
Oxford,  361. 

Pachgatgoch,  95. 

Padel,  Otto,  242. 

PageU,  Edward,  367,  362ff,  366,  369. 

Pagell,  Mrs.,  364. 

Palermo,  Sicily,  477. 

PaUisser,  Sir  Hugh,  131ff,  140,  191. 

Pall  Mall  Magazine,  316. 

Palmerston,  Lord,  322. 

Papus,  276,  346-355,  416f,  419,  421, 

423-435  499. 
Paramaribo,' 117,  121,  188,  191,  250, 

252ff,  257-261,  264,  484. 
Paravicini,  Consul,  157. 
Paris,  31  If,  477. 
Partsch,  George,  100. 
Partsch,  Mrs.,  100. 
Pastoral  Letter,  142. 
Patrick  Town,  Jamaica,  227. 
Paulu,  366. 
Payas,  The,  326. 
Peace  of  Paris,  101,  344. 
Pearl  Lagoon,  Nicaragua,  325. 
Peart,  Robert,  209. 
Pechanga,  California,  410. 


Index. 


545 


Peck,  C.  J.,  490. 

Pella,  South  Africa,  281. 

Pemell,  Mrs.,  490. 

Penn,  William,  90. 

Pennsylvania,    81,    83,    90,    93,    95, 

lOlff,  113,  498. 
Pepper,  Nathaniel,  350f. 
Periodical   Accounts,    3,    189f,    194ff, 

198ff,   289,   297,   310,   316,  338, 

397,  412,  475,  495. 
Perl,  St.  Thomas,  44. 
Perrens,  Mrs.  or  Miss,  489. 
Perry,  Bishop  of  Melbourne,  346,  350. 
Persia,  160,  202. 
Peter  of  Labrador,  142. 
Peter  of  St.  Thomas,  44. 
Peru,  490. 
Peyster,  Major,  112. 
Pfeififer,  Henry  GottUeb,  215,  322-325. 
Philadelphia,  102. 
Philadelphia    Philosophical    Society, 

116. 
Pierson,  Dr.  A.  T.,  201. 
Pietism,  3,  4,  11,  65. 
Pilder,  George,  161f. 
Pilgerhut,  117. 
Pilgemih,  114f,  120. 
Pilgrim,  Alexander,  389. 
Pilgrim's    Progress,    The,    Banyan's, 

227,  314. 
Piper,  334. 
Pisani,  274f. 

Pless,  Count  von,  25f,  48,  60. 
Plessis,  Dr.  du,  273. 
Plutschau,  Henry,  5-8. 
Poland,   503. 
Pommerschwitz,   Upper   Silesia,    11, 

38. 
Pontiac  War,  lOlf. 
Poo,  Western  Tibet,  358f,  363ff,  369. 
Port  Elizabeth,  South  Africa,  286f. 
Port  of  Spain,  Trinidad,  234. 
Porteous,  Bishop  of  London,  195. 
Porto  Rico,  489. 

Posaunenberg,   St.   Thomas,   39,  47. 
Post,  95. 

Potrero,  CaUfomia,  409,  412ff. 
Potribo,  Surinam,  255. 
Powell,  Joseph,  199. 
Prague,  477. 
Presbyterians,    350f,    353,    355,    394, 

416,  435,  486f,  489,  502,  506. 
Price,  216. 

Prichard,  Major  Heaketh,  303,  312. 
Priestley,  428. 

Prince  and  Princess  of  Wales,  76. 
Pringle,  279. 

2N 


Prins,  Stephen,  484. 
Prochnow,   357. 
Protten,  Christian  Jacob,   156. 
Province  Island,   102. 
Pumpkin,  423f. 

Quama,  Surinam,  123. 
Quamwatla,   Nicaragua,   336ff. 
Quebec,  112. 
Queensland,  North,  355,  416-436,  465, 

469,  473,  484,  489,  499,  505. 
Queenstown,     Demerara,     391f. 
Queenstown,  South  Africa,  293. 
Quingillingok,  Alaska,  403. 
Quinhagak,  Alaska,  404ff. 
Quintin  Hogg :    a  Biography,  Ethel 

M.  Hogg's,  388. 
Quirpoint  Harbour,  132. 

Rabbinites,  149. 

Ramah,  Labrador,  300. 

Ramah  Indians,  326,  331ff. 

Ramah  Key,  326,  331f. 

Ramah  River,  345. 

Ramahyuck,  Victoria,  352-355,  416. 

Ramona,  Jackson's,  408. 

Rampoor,  357. 

Rasmus,  Jens,  48. 

Rauch,  Christian  Henry,  52,  85-90, 

170,  181. 
Reading,  352. 
Red  Sea,  162. 
Rcdgauntttt,  Scott's,  185. 
Redslob,  Frederick  Adolphus,  361f, 

366. 
Regnier,  Dr.,  170,  172. 
R^ichel,  Leonard,  338. 
Reichel,  Bishop  John  Frederick,  266. 
Reichel,  Eugene,  264,  488. 
Reichel,  Gerhard,  168. 
Reigel,  244. 
Reinke,  Andrew,  322. 
Reis,  219. 

Reitapura,  Nicaragua,  329. 
Reliance,  Demerara,  388f. 
Renan,  Ernest,  347. 
Rephaim,  377. 
Reports   oj  the   Brethren's   Missions, 

195. 
Resolution,  The,  302. 
Retrospect  of  the  Mission  in  Antigua, 

189. 
Rhenish  Missionaries,  283. 
Rhenius,  Governor,  267. 
Rhine,  The,  172. 
Rhodes,  James,  136,  199. 
Ribbach,  Mrs.,  364fi 


546 


A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 


Richard,  Marc,  234,  500. 

Richard,  Theophilus,  438,  444. 

Richmond,  Legh,  487. 

Richter,   435. 

Richter,  Abraham,  157. 

Riebeck,  Governor  van,  127. 

Rigolette,  311. 

Rincon,  California,  410,  415. 

Ritschl,  Albrecht,  7. 

Rittmansberger,  Andrew,  65. 

Riverside,  California,  413. 

Robben  Island,  South  Africa,  285f, 

374. 
Robert   Charles   Frederick,   King   of 

Moskito,   322. 
Robert   Clarence,   King   of   Moskito, 

340. 
Roberts,  Edward,  199. 
Robinson,  55. 
Robinson,  S.,  418. 
Robinson  Crusoe,  Defoe's,  55,  117, 
Roller,  Dr.,  162. 
Roman    Catholics,     158,     165,    250, 

255,   340,   343,    345,   377,   414f, 

432,  438,  501. 
Romig,  Benjamin,  339. 
Romig,  Dr.  J.  H.,  403. 
Ronneburg  Castle,  147. 
Roonjon,  Surinam,  252. 
Roosevelt,  President,  255. 
Rosehill,  Tiinidad,  234. 
Roth,  Dr.,  432f. 
Rothe,  John  Andrew,  9. 
Roumania,  158. 
RiifEer,  Dr.,  160f. 

Rungwe,  Nyassa,  438ff,  443-448,  451. 
Russell,  Samuel,  199. 
Russia,  156,  158,  201,  292,  357,  394, 

500,  503. 
Rust-en-Vrede,     Surinam,     252. 
Rust-en-Wcrk,   Surinam,    255. 
Rutenganio,  Nyassa,  448f,   451. 
Ryle,  Bishop  J.  C,  487. 

Sachalin,  490. 

Sachems,  98. 

Sacred    Songs    and    Solos,    Sankey's, 

425. 
Salem,  Jamaica,  211. 
Salem,  Ohio,  108,  112. 
Salem,  Surinam,  255. 
Salich  of  Jerusalem,  379. 
Salvation  Army,  507. 
Samoa,  276. 
Samoyedos,  9,  156. 
San  Domingo,  235, 489,  609. 
San  Francisco,  394. 


San  Pedro,  235. 

Sandusky,  113f. 

Sandy  Bay,  Nicaragua,  336. 

Sang  Sangta,  Nicaragua,  343,  611. 

Sankey,  425. 

Saramakka  River,  119,  121,  256, 

Saramakker  Negroes,  121,  123,  256. 

Sarepta,  159f. 

Savannah,  78. 

Savannah  River,  81. 

Saxony,  167. 

Schafcr,  Melchior,  17, 

Schmidt,    George,    10,    43,    126-130, 

169,    174-177,   266ff,   271f,   279. 
Schmidt,  Isaac,  160. 
Schmidt,  Rasmus,  23,  256. 
Schmitt,  John  Henry,  276. 
Schneider,  Daniel,  155. 
Schneider,  H.  G.,  483f. 
Schneider,  John,  136,  156. 
Schneller,  55. 
Schochert,  404. 
Scholefield,  John,  213. 
Schonberg-Waldenburg,     Prince     of, 

322. 
Schonbrunn,  Ohio,  107f,  112,  114. 
Schreve,  373. 

Schubert,  Karl,  376,  381,  385f. 
Schumann,  Theophilus  Solomon,  11, 

117-120,  124,  172,  181,  188. 
Schuysken,  Governor,  275. 
Schwabel,  362. 
Schwenkf  elders,  11. 
Schwinn,  Daniel,  267. 
Scotland,  303,  486,  500. 
Scott,  351. 

Scott,  Hutchinson,  211. 
Scott,  Mrs.  Hutchinson,  212,  223. 
Scottish   Missionary   Society,   201. 
Sehlen,  Moravia,  10. 
Seidel,  Nathaniel,  170. 
Seiilerth,  Anthony,  80. 
Self -Support  Synod,  481. 
Senecas,  91. 

Senftleben,  Moravia,  10. 
Senseman,  Joachim,  99, 112. 
Senscman,  Mrs.,  100. 
Senthea  Creek,  123. 
Serajevo,  503. 
Serampore,  198. 
Sergeant's  River,  268. 
Seven  Years'  War,  99,   lOlf,  188. 
Shallcross,  Thomas,  51, 199, 
Shamans,  398. 

Shamokin,  Pa.,  93,  95,  99,  101. 
Sharon,  Barbados,  55f. 
Sharon,  Nicaragua,  336 


Index. 


547 


Sharon,  Surinam,  119f. 

Shaw,  Thomas  F.,  452. 

Shawanese  Indians,  83,  93,  99. 

Shawe,  Becker,  371. 

Shawe,  Dr.  Ernest,  3fr4. 

Shawe,  Jackson,  485. 

Sheda  Mahinda,  455. 

Shekomeko,  New  York,  85,  87,  90, 

92-95,  102. 
Shelley,  477. 
Shikellimey,  93,  95,  97. 
Shiloh,   Cape   Colony,   288-293,   296, 

485. 
Short  History  of  Christian  Missions, 

Smith's,  199. 
Shussele's   Picture,   104. 
Siberia,  357. 
Sieborger,  337. 
Signal  Hill,  Tobago,  55f. 
Sikonge,   Unyamwezi,  454,   458. 
Siksigak,   145. 
Siloah,  384,  508. 
Simmonds,  The,  79,  186,  198. 
Single  Brethren's  Song,  Zinzendorf  s, 

47. 
Skrop,  46. 

Slavery,  Abolition  of,  216. 
Slavery,  Moravian  attitude  towards, 

195-197. 
Smith,  311. 
Smith,  George,  199. 
Smith,  Mrs.,  266. 
Smith,  R.  Brough,  349. 
Smith,  Sir  Harr^^  291. 
Snaife,  Hon.  D.,  211. 
Snelgrave,   Captain   William,    195. 
Social  Evolution,  Kidd's,  354. 
Society     for     Qiristian     Fellowship, 

201. 
Society    for    the    Advancement    of 

Civilisation  and  Christianity,  87. 
S.F.C.K.,  486. 
S.F.G.,  134f,  189,  195,  218,  304-308, 

468,  475,  478,  482,  485. 
S.P.C.K.,  8. 
S.P.G.    (American    Moravian),     189, 

394,  468,  478,  485,  504. 
S.P.G.  (Anglican),  20,  79,  174,  181. 
S.P.G.  (North  Carolina),  486. 
Somerset,  Lord  Charles,  289. 
Sonderend,  The,  279. 
Sonderman,  225. 
Sophia,  Princess,  40. 
Sorcerers,   58,    106,    122f,   220,   246, 

295,    299,    348,    401,    450    (see 

also   Angegoks). 
Sorensen,  John,  23,  74,  237. 


Soukias,  325,  327f,  332,  336. 

South  Australian  Women's  Missionary 
Association,  428. 

Southon,  Dr.,  452. 

Spangenberg,  Augustus  Gottlieb,  78, 
80ff,  85.  87.  92f.  99,  101,  115, 
117,  142,  169f,  173,  187,  189, 
192,  194,  196,  198,  247,  267, 
475,  498. 

Sx)ener,  Philip,  4f. 

Spieseke,  William,  346,  351. 

Spieseke,  Mrs.,  351. 

Spitti,   362. 

Springplace,  Georgia,   246,   248. 

Srinagar,  507. 

St.  Bemadino  Hills,  409. 

St.  Croix,  38,  41,  48f,  166,  173,  199, 
231,  509. 

St.  Eustace,  46,  490. 

St.  Jacinto,  408. 

St.  Jacinto  HUls,  409. 

St.  James,  Parish  of,  Jamaica,  213f, 
220. 

St.  John,  36,  48f,  231,  509. 

St.  John's,  Antigua,  53,  56. 

St.  John's,  Newfoundland,  302,  304, 
512. 

St.  Kitts,  50,  55f,  193,  199,  231. 

St.  Madeleine,  Trinidad,  234. 

St.  Petersburg,  156,  159f. 

St.  Thomas,  11,  15ff,  21.  25,  27-32, 
34ff,  38,  41,  43,  45ff,  49,  118, 
148,  166,  170,  173,  181,  186, 
188,  230,  463,  498,  502,  509. 

Stach,  Anna,  72,  76. 

Stach,  Christian,  59,  68. 

Stach,  Matthew,  10,  43,  57,  59,  68-74, 
76f,  131,  169,  173,  186,  237. 

Stahlmann,  George,  175. 

Steenbrans  River,  130. 

Stellenbosch,  273. 

Stephen,  Native  Helper,  238f. 

Stephen  Prins,  Schneider's,  484. 

Stem,  Rudolph,  454f,  457. 

Stevenson,  R.  L.,  276. 

Stobgyea,  359,  366. 

Stockholm,  155. 

Stoffels,  292f. 

Stok,  Western  Tibet,  360. 

StoU,  Rudolph,  123f,  181. 

Stollberg,  Count«ss  of,  24. 

Stompjes,   Wilhehnina,   289f,   293. 

Stromness,   303. 

Sturges,  489. 

Sturgis,  Joseph,  100. 

Stuttgart,  477. 


548 


A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 


Succinct  View  of  the  Missions,  La 
Trobe's,    194. 

Suez,  162. 

Suka,  Alaska,  394. 

Sullivan,  Superintendent,  414. 

Sultanpur,    357. 

Summer  Bide  through  Western  Tibet, 
A,  Duncan's,  365. 

Sumu  Indians,  326f,  337. 

Sunbury,  95. 

Surinam,  11,  20,  23,  117,  119,  121-125, 
166,  170f,  175,  177,  185,  188ff, 
193,  201,  250-265,  326,  328,  348, 
449,  469,  473,  478,  480,  482, 
485,  493,  499,  502,  504f,  510. 

Surinam  River,  121,  123,  256. 

Susquehannah  River,  97,  103. 

Sutlej  River,  357,  507. 

Swabia,   11. 

Sweden,  12,  155. 

Sweet   Milk   Valley,    129,    174,    267. 

Swiss  Moravians,  375,  377,  438. 

Switzerland,  486. 

Sydney,  416f. 

Synodal  Results  (1857),  463. 

Synods,  General,  153,  187,  189-193, 
202,  243,  259,  266,  323,  342,  346, 
375,  437,  463-467,  469f,  473-503. 

Tabase,  Tembuland,  288,  293. 
Tabitha  of  Nicaragua,  333. 
Table  Bay,  South  Africa,  272. 
Tabora,  Unyamwezi,  454,  457f. 
Tager,  Andrew  F.  C,  346,  349f. 
Talmud,  The,  149f. 
Tambooldes,  291. 

Tanganyika  Territory,  437,  490,  508. 
Tapanahone  River,  121. 
Tappe,  Frederick,  374,  376. 
Tappus,  28,  37,  39,  44,  230. 
Tapunlaya,  Nicaragua,  330. 
Tan  Chand,  363. 
Tartars,  The,  164,  202. 
Taylor,  David,  199. 
Taylor,  John,  286. 
Teluca  Mountains,  333. 
Tembuland,  South  Africa,  288,  293ff. 
Teunessen,  Major,  267,  273ff. 
Text-Book,    16,    18,    172f,   251,   395, 

419. 
Thames,  The,  Canada,  246. 
Through  Flood  and  Storm,  Davey's, 

484. 
Thuringia,  21. 

Thursday  Island,  418f,  426f,  433. 
Tiaga,  97. 
Tibet,  Chinese,  357f. 


Tibet,  Western,    159,    357-373,    465, 

473,  484,  489,  496f,  499,  506. 
Timothy,  6. 

Tinana,  Hlubiland,  288,  298. 
Tischendorf,  154. 
To  all  the  World,  484. 
Tobago,  50,  55f,   199,  233,  475. 
Toms  Tschatchi,  81. 
Tongulas,  The,  326. 
Torgersen,  John,  395. 
Tornea,  155. 
Torngak,  64,  139ff,  144. 
Torres  Straits  Pilot,  427f,  436. 
Tortola,  186. 
Towkas,  The,  326. 
Towle,  Samuel,  199. 
Townsville,  Australia,  418. 
Tozer,  Hon.  Hoiace,  417,  432,  499. 
Training  Colleges,  83,  232,  261,  299, 

446f,  470,  482. 
Training    Schools,     223,     225,    280, 

391,  447,  458,  481. 
Tranquebar,  5-8,  23,  165f,  174f,  188, 

190,  266. 
Tri-lok-nath,  358. 
Trinidad,  234. 
Trollope,  Anthony,  346. 
Trombone   Hill   (see   Posaunenberg). 
Tropical  Africa,  Drummond's,  440. 
Tschoop,  86ff,  90,  92,  188. 
Tubingen,  78. 
Tucker,  Chariotte,  490. 
Tuglavina,   139-145. 
Tulpehocken,  Pa.,  91f. 
Tuluksak,  Alaska,  403. 
Turkey,  12,  383f,  504,  507. 
Turkeyen,  Demerara,  391. 
Turner,  490. 
Turner,    Bishop,   284. 
Turner,   William,   136,   199. 
Turtle  Tribe,  97. 
Tuscarawas  River,  106ff,  186. 
Tuscarawas  Valley,  115. 
Tuscaroras,  91. 
Twappi,  Nicaragua,  336. 
Twistwyk,  South  Africa,  281. 
Two-Mile  Wood,  Jamaica,  51,  208. 
Twenty  Years  of  Pioneer  Missions  in 

Nyassaland,    Hamilton's,   437. 
Tyers,  Lake,  355. 
Tylden,  Major,  291f. 
Tyrall,  Jamaica,  214. 

Ujiji,  457. 

Ulassa,  or  Evil  Spirits,  327. 

Uleaborg,  155. 

Ulrich,  Abraham,  16,  25,  29,  37. 


Index. 


549 


Ulrich,  Anna,  16,  25,  29,  37. 

Ulrich,  Antony,  15f,  19,  25,  27f,  67. 

Umanak,   Greenland,   236,    243. 

Umlakasa's  Prophecy,   292. 

Umlangeni's  War,  291. 

Ungava  Bay,  303. 

United  Free  Oiurch  of  Scotland,  451, 

508. 
United  States,   208,   345,   394,   406, 

408,  490,  500,  503f. 
Unity's  Elders'  Conference,  192,  464f, 

474f,  479-482. 
Unyamwezi,  452-458,  466,  473,  489, 

497,  502,  508. 
Urambo,  452ff,  457. 
Ursinus,  9. 

Usafwa,  439,  444,  448,  452. 
Usoke,  Unyamwezi,  454. 
Utengule,  Nyassa,  444,  448,  450. 

Vailima  Memories,  Stevenson's,  276. 

Van  Calker,  Th.,  264. 

Venezuela,  490. 

Venice,  477. 

Victoria,  276,  346-356,  416,  465,  473, 

479,  484,  489,  499. 
Victoria  Nyanza,  Lake,  452f,  490. 
Victoria,  Queen,  322,  352,  499. 
Vienna,  353,  361,  477. 
Visitations,   Official,   169,   264,   308, 

474,  504. 
Volga  River,   159. 
Voullaire,  Bishop,  260. 

Waldenberg,  Prince,  489. 

Walder,  Heinrich,  228,  355. 

Walder,  John  R.,  237. 

Walker,  Patrick,  322. 

Wallachia,   158,   201. 

Walpasiksa.  Nicaragua,  330. 

Walpole,  Lady,  487. 

Wanderings  of  a  Spirittuilist,  Doyle's, 

354. 
Wanhatti,  Surinam,  257. 
Wanica,  Surinam,  252. 
Wanks  River,  321,  343. 
War    of    Independence,    American, 

103,  110,  114,  246. 
Warof  the  Axe,  291. 
Ward,  Bishop  Arthur,  420,  428,  484. 
Ward,  James,  416-431,  436,  500. 
Ward,   Mrs.,   418,   420f,   426,   430ff, 

435f,  506. 
Wameck,  Dr.  Gustav,  186. 
Wamow,  Matthew,  236. 
Washington,  George,  191,  499. 
Wasla,  Nicaragua,  336. 


Waterloo,  Surinam,  265. 
Waters,  Mary,  324. 
Watson,    Samuel,    199. 
Watteville,  Frederick  de,  7f. 
Watteville,  John  de,  170,  192. 

Webb-Peploe,  Prebendary,  487. 

Weber,  Mrs.,  364. 

Weber,  George,  43ff. 

Wechquadnach,  95. 

Weiniger,  162. 

Weinland,  William,  394f,  398f,  409- 
415,  497,  500. 

Weipa,  North  Queensland,  435. 

Weiss,  Henry,  255. 

Weisser,  Conrad,  90. 

Wellington,    Lake,   352. 

Weltz,  Baron  von,  5. 

Wemigerode,  11,  24. 

Wesley,  John,  47,  79f,  134,  186,  198. 

Wesley  ans,  502. 

West  Indian  Company,  Danish,  25, 
30. 

West  Indies,  Danish,  12,  19f,  23-49, 
170,  176,  188f,  191,  193,  196, 
201f,  230-235,  449,  463f,  466f, 
470,  473,  479,  482f,  486,  491- 
494,  496,  499,  504,  509f. 

West  Indies,  British,  23,  50-56,  166, 
170,  189,  196,  198,  201f,  230- 
235, 463f ,  466f ,  470, 473. 478, 482f , 
491-494,  496,  499,  504,  509f. 

West  Indies,  Montgomery's,  30. 

Westerby,  George  Wall,  232f. 

Westfield,  Kansas,  248. 

Wetterau,  The,  73f,  147,  500. 

Whit«  Eyes,  109f. 

Wied,  23. 

WUberforce,  William,  165,  196ff, 
475,  487. 

Wilhehnina,  Queen,  255. 

Willem,  129f. 

Williamsfield,  Jamaica,  214.  , 

Williamson,  Colonel,  113. 

Willock,  Henry,  322. 

Wilson,  James,  311. 

Wimmera,  Lake,  346. 

Wimmera,  Willie,  352. 

Windsor,  Jamaica,  210. 

Winkel,  The,  250f. 

Wintimen,  122,  257. 

Wironje  River,  117. 

WitkUebosch,  South  Africa,  281. 

Wittenberg,  8f. 

Wittewater,  South  Africa,  281. 

Wolf  Tribe,  109. 

Women's  National  Indians'  Associa- 
ti<Hi,408i 


550 


A  History  of  Moravian  Missions. 


Woodlands,  Jamaica,  225. 

Woodmount,  U.S.A.,  248. 

Woolwas,  The,  326. 

Woosley,  David,  413. 

Worcester,  Jamaica,  214. 

Work  among  the  Lepers,  La  Trobe's, 

374. 
World   Missionary    Conference,    436, 

501. 
Wounta,  Nicaragua,  330. 
Wrightson,  Dr.,  489. 
Wyandots,  111. 
Wyoming  Valley,  Pa.,  83,  193. 

Xentu  River,  South  Africa,  294. 

Yarkand,  489. 

Yorkshire  Society,  478. 

Young  People's  Missionary   League, 

497. 
Yulu,  Nicaragua,  336,  338. 

Zambesi  Industrial  Mission,  492. 
Zander,  175. 


Zauchtenthal,   Moravia,    10,   22,   79. 

Zeisberger,  David,  10,  79,  94-99, 
102-112,  114ff,  169,  182,  189f, 
246,  249,  398. 

Zeist,  Holland,  76,  154,  183,  600. 

Zeist  Missionary  Society,  486. 

Zeitschrift  fiir  Briidergeschichte,  184. 

Zelaya,  Nicaragua,  340,  345. 

Zelaya,  President,  339,  343. 

Zenana  Work,  364. 

Zibi,  288,  296-299,  499. 

Ziegenbalg,  Bartholomew,  5,  7f,  126. 

Zinzendorf,  Nicholas  Louis,  Count  of, 
3-17,  19-23,  38f,  43-49,  52,  57, 
59,  65f,  72-75,  78f,  84,  90-96, 
98,  117f,  129ff,  146-149,  152-162, 
164f,  167-188,  190-194,  198,  201, 
307,  449,  464,  473,  475,  480. 
485,  488,  497f,  501. 

Zinzendorf  in  the  Wetterau,  147. 

Zinzendorf  und  Die  Briidergemeine, 
167. 

Zoar,  Labrador,  300. 

Zom,  Jacob,  216-219,  222,  481. 


Printers : 

William  Walker  &  Sons  (Oiley)  Limited. 

Printerdoin, 

Otley. 


r 


PLEASE  DO  NOT  REMOVE 
CARDS  OR  SLIPS  FROM  THIS  POCKET 

UNIVERSITY  OF  TORONTO  LIBRARY 


BV  Hutton,   Joseph  S3nund 

2560  A  history  of  Moravian 

H8  missions 


