DOCUMENT_ID: spangenberg-1788
TITLE (as printed): An Account of the Manner in which the Protestant Church of the Unitas Fratrum, or United Brethren, Preach the Gospel, and Carry on their Missions among the Heathen
DATE: 1788 (English translation; German original, Von der Arbeit der evangelischen Bruder unter den Heiden, dated by the author's preface Barby, 12 December 1780)
LANGUAGE: en (translated from German; translator not named on title page)
SOURCE URL: https://archive.org/details/McGillLibrary-rbcs_an-account_landeinuit12-43069
EDITION: London: printed and sold by H. Trapp for the Brethren's Society for the Furtherance of the Gospel among the Heathen, M.DCC.LXXXVIII [1788]. Digitized by Internet Archive (McGill University Library, Rare Books and Special Collections copy).
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: Internet Archive OCR (djvu), fetched verbatim, uncorrected
TOTAL LINES: 7294
WORD COUNT: 39398
NOTE: PRIMARY. Written by August Gottlieb Spangenberg (1704-1792), Zinzendorf's successor as head of the Unity of the Brethren, an eyewitness to the events of 1727-1732 he describes. This English translation is the document named in the roster's 'Key primary documents' cell for herrnhut-moravians. OCR quality: POOR. The original 1788 typeface used the long s, and the OCR engine renders it inconsistently as 's' or 'f' (e.g. 'fervice' for 'service', 'fecond' for 'second', 'brethren' correctly but 'miffion' for 'mission'); many words are also broken across line-ends with a stray line-initial capital or stray characters. Quotations below were selected from the most legible passages and transcribed exactly character-for-character as OCR'd, including these apparent errors. Rule 03/F.2.4 forbids correcting or modernizing; the printed text is quoted uncorrected. Per book-plan Rule 2, every quotation was copied from this file, not retyped from a mental 'corrected' reading.
---BEGIN TEXT---
A WN 


CGO U had 


OF THE MANNER IN WHICH THE 


PROTESTANT CHURCH 


OF THE \ 


UNITAS FRATRUM, 


oO R 


UNITED BRETHREN, 


PREAC® 


The Gospet, and catry on their Mrssrong 


among the HEATHEN, 


ne TE ec ER 
TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN OF THE 


Rey. AUGUST GOTTLIEB SPANGENBERG, 


“% Go YE INTO ALL THE 


7 7 


‘© GosPEL To EVERY CREATWRE,” MARK 


a TS eT 


Printed and fold by H. Row, for the 


Brethren’s. Sociers fpel;-alfo fold at 
all the Brcthrea’e Settlements and Chapels in Great-Biitain and 
dseland. 


M.DEC.EXXXVIIIs 


rs: this little work has been well received and 
approved of abroad, by many ferious chriftians, 
who are not only hearty well-withers to, and promoters 
of the work of God in Chrifendom, but alfo rejoice at 
the {preading of the light of the glorious gofpel of 
Jefus Chrift among the poor, ignorant, and benighted 
Heathen; THE BrRETHREN’s SOCIETY FOR THE 
FuRTHERANCE OF THE GOSPEL AMONG THE 
HEATHEN, thought it might be of ufe, and agreeable 
to many fincere chriftians, both in and out of the Bre« 
thren’s congregations, in this country, if they fhould 
procure a tranflation of it into Englib. They here 
prefent it to the public, and hope that the candid reader 
will make a charitable allowance, if he fhould now and 
then meet with.a Germanifm, &c. and think, itis a 
tranflation. 

Tuey with alfo that the reader may meet with 
fatisfa&tion and bleffing in the perufal of it, and be 
prompted to join them in fupplicating the God of all 
grace, that the faving knowledge of our bleffed Lord 
and Saviour, Jesus Crrist, (who is the Propitiation for 
our fins, and not fo ours only, but aifo per the fins of the 
mhole world) may cover the earth, as the waters cover 
jhe fea, 


ADVERTISEMEN Eee 


ee 


PR EF. AC ae 


HE occafion of writing and publifhing the 
fullowing account was given us by Dr, 
Walch. of Goettingen. He expreffed a with 
to have Ganinintarinass on, concerning the method 
which the evangelical Brethren make ufe of; in 
their miffions the heathen. Many. de- 
have already been pub- 
before the public in 

@ proper connection ; though we faw clearly that 
it might be cqually ufcful and agreeable, not 
only to the members of the Unity of the Bres 
thren, but alfo to other friends of the truthi 


} 3 
arhed ee Ty 
tached accounts 


lifhed, but never yet laid 


Jt being therefore refolved upon, I was come 
miffioned to draw. up fuch an account. And I 
readily undertook this work, in reliance upon 
the Lord our Redeemer, who gladly heareth 
the ‘prayers of his fervants for his gracious 
affittance, 


Tue firft thing I did was to confider, in the 
prefence of the Lord, the mcthod of the difciples 
of Chrift in preaching sha goipel among the 
Gentiles. For whatever our Brethren have done 

> 

and are ftill doing among the heathen, ought 
properly to be judged according to that. lef: 
fed be God for the excellent inftru€tion we find 
goncerning this matter, in holy writ. The 
fecond 


ae fe fC fg: 


fecond thing was, that I referred back to the 
firft occafion given to the Brethren for their 
undertakings among the heathen, of which I 
myfelf was an eye witnefs; remembering, at the 
fame time, thofe rules and meafures, which, by 
the. grace of God, ferved the Brethren as a direc- 
tion from the beginning. Laftly, I have endea- 
voured to exprefs’ myfelf clearly about the 
method, or way and manner,-by which they 
‘ endeavour to, bring and preferve the heathen 
jn the way of lite, that is, to Chriff. 


Bzinc perfuaded that one or another of my 
. geaders, may probably with to know fomething 
more concerning this and the other point, which 
is only briefly touched upon here, I have to 
this end referred to fuch paflages, in the hiftori- 
cal writings of the Brethren’s labours among 
the heathen, already publifhed, as may an{wer 
this purpole. 


Ar the fame time, I moft heartily entreat 
God our Saviour, from whom cometh every good 
thing, that he would, out of the abundance of 
his grace, accompany all with his bleffing. 


Avucust Gortiizs SPANGENBERG, 
Barsy, 
December 12, 1780, 


y 


SSAA I NRO ELT" REIT 3 FT NTRP RE 
LLL LOL 


LAER —_ ate 


Shas 


An Account oF THE MANNER IN WHICH THE 
: ProrestanT Cuurcu or tHe Uniras Frae 
TRUM, OR UniTED BrerureNn, PREACH THE 


GosPEL, AND CARRY ON THEIR MyssIONg 
AMONG THE. HEATHEN, bd 


SkeCTION FIR sa 
Or the Heathen, and of their Converfion according 
to the Scriptures, § 1—24. 
SECTION SECOND. 


Or the Occafion of the Brethren’s Labour among 
the Heathen, and of the Steps and Meafures they took 
therein, § 25—43. ; 


SECTION THIRD, 


OF the Method of the Brethren ‘to preach th¢ 
Gofpel among the Heathen. § 44—73. 


es SS ee. Bean! bie 


ee Wt AT is meant by the term heathen? 
ase Ys Ged leaves not himfelf without witnefs among 
them. 
But they regard him nat, and are therefore moft dread- 
filly punifoed 
The bencfit derived by the heathen from what Gad did 


oy 


for the jews. 


And how G.d.aéteth by each of them. 


The blorious promifes erven unto them alfa. 
Which are acc 
Chrift takes ni 

the f l 


Ordering that the gofpel concerning the way of lifé 


be preachead'to them aljs. 
30. Za which end he particularly called Paul, 
ri—12. Who preached to them Chrift and him crucified, 
13—14- He preached ust with excellency of fpeech, or of 
wifdom, but with the power of Ged, 
35. Of Paul's fufferings, walk, miracles and zeal. 
16, Many heathen receive not the gofpely but others believe 
and are baptizca, 
17. And of cour fe are farther infiructed. 
4x8. Paul appoints meetings, and forms one chetch both of 
5 and of Gentiles. 
churches be appoints Elders, Bifhops, and 
one in the church fush 
infiruction as is peculiarly adapted to each, 
OF what ke in particular warned believers from 


1c beathen, and why be- preached to many 


§ 22. How 


§ 22. 
23: 


24. 
25. 


26. 
27. 


28. 


COR T.E 8 TS 


How he oppofed  falfe and erroneous teachers. 
How firenuoufly he infijied upon unity of Jpirit, dua 


déing all things with pi ‘ayer, 

Of the meaning anal intention of the prefent treatife, 

Oscafion of the miffions of the Brethren in Greenland 
and St. Thomas. 

How the awakening among the negroes in St. Thimas 
continued. 

Whence it became neédful to think of the ordination of 
the miffionaries. 

The brethren refolve never to ree? a@ call among the 
heathen, without previous examination, nor yet 


td perfuade, mich lefs to urge any one to it. 

Their call te South Cartlind, and the Archbifhop ¢ 
Cahterbitry’s opinion, relative to the Brethren’s 
labour among the heathen. 

They go to divers heathen nations, without howéver 


opp ping any other heathen miffions. 
And in their preaching they direé? fouls only ta Chrift. 
What = Brethren efteem to be their duty with regard 
to commerce among the hedthen, and towards their 


majfters and magiftrates. 
J S 


. How. they manage in regard to flies 


Of the wretched condition of thofe heathen, among ft 
? 
whom the Brethren labour. 
Noiwithftanding which, they are not to fuffer their 
oe 
courage io fink, but to carry on this work in hopes 
Taking care leat the femblance of goodne/s in fome 
heathen fhould deceive or blind them. 
But to open the gofpel freely to fuch as they perceive te 
be already wrought upon by the Holy Gho/t. 
Satan endeavours to hinder the courfe of the gofpel, 
and what is to be done in this cafe. 
Of thofe heathen in whofe language na writings are 
as yet extant, 


b § 40s 


ge '-0 0 'N re NY 
40. The beginning is made intentionally only for fome fetp 
4 of the heathen; but after Jome time, the firft inten- 
tion is, according to circumpancesy changed, . This 
labour requires much patience, 
41. Of the direétion of the miffions 
42—43.. Of caring. for the needful expences of .the 
; miffions. 
44-45. What has had the. moft bleffed effets on the hea» 
then in preaching the go/pel ; 
45—47. The fum of preaching to the heathen is Ghrift 
crucified. 
48. And bis death, which he endured Jor us, is always 
the principal fujett. ; 


43. Contents of the preaching ta the heathen according to 


5 Sia i 
2 brethren endeavour to beas plain and finpleas 


ng » 
51—52. How an heathen ought to be ai/pofed previous 


polfible in their preaching 


to his being baptized. 

. The confequences of objections to this. 

How the bapti/m of children, and of fick perfons is to 
be managed, and how-the regifiers, or chureh books, 
are to be kept. 

55+ What is obferved relative to the holy communion, 

56. Of infiruétion in holy writ, and the ufe of hymns. 

$7--58—59 Of the affiflants.in the miffions, 

60. Of the meetings, after liturgy, Agape, and Pedia 

lavium 

61. Of divers departments in the congregation, 

62. Of the right ufé of Sundays and feftival-days. 

63. Of the choirs, aud bow they-are minifiered unto. 

64. Of places where heathen dwell among chriftians, aud 

which.are under a chriftian magifirate. 

65. Of the bleffed ue of difcipling. 

§ 66 


© 0 MT FT 2 
§ 66. Of heathenifh cufloms, dreffes, &%c. and how to remedy 


or remove them. 
67. Of the marriages of baptized heathen. 
68. Of the care of their children. 
J ois : 
69—70—71. The Brethren endeavour to bring the cons 
gregations gathered from among the heathens 
into good order, in outward matters alfo. 
72. Of vifitations in the heathen congregations. 
73- Conclufion of this treatife. 


Bn RR A Ee: 


Page 21. line 33. for fubtlety, read fubtilty. 

P. 35, note, for + s'and 7, read § 5 and a, 

ef 2, /. 21, for Watte-ville, read Wattevilley 
P. 56,4. 9, for among, read in. 


Tbid , left kine, for diaconies, read deacons. 

P. 57,1. 1, for which have, read and fo it has: 
P. 66,1. 9, for the difciples, read (the difciples.) 
P. 67, laft line, for wholfome, read wholefome, 


a aaa 
RN TENE EPA OE i ES PELOTON BEET LIE ES 
a 


S.C. FT. 1.0 .N: FE R-§.T, 


OF THE HEATHEN, AND OF THEIR 
CONVERSION ACCORDING TO THE 
SCRIPTURES, 


§ 1. 


E read in the facred fcriptures, that God in a 
peculiar manner took charge of the people of 
Ifrael, that is to fay, of the pofterity of Abraham, of his 
fon Ifaac, and his grandfon Jacob, who obtained the name 
of Ifrael. He delivered them by the hand of Mofes, his 
fervant, from a moft wretched ftate of flavery, and 
chofe them, for the fake of their fathers, to be his pe~ 
culiar property. His intention was to make them a 
truly happy people; and with this view he gave them 
the moft exceilent laws, introduced the beft orders 
among them, took the government of them into his 
own hand, and promifed, on condition of their obe- 
dience to him, to be their gracious God, and to blefs 
and protect them as his people, 
A Thus 


‘with other nations, were neither the greateft, nor the 


Ie 


[3] 


Thus the Lord {God condefcended to enter into 4 
Covenant with a certain race of men, which, compared 


beft; but which he, out of mere grace, without any 
merit or worthinefs on their part, had chofen, to the 
end that he might manifeft his glory in.them in a pe- 
culiar, diftinguifhing manner ¥. Whoever reads the 
hiftory of this people with a heart defirous to be in- 
ftructed, and confiders the wonderful ways of God 
with them in a proper light, will find fo many proofs 
of his wifdom and truth, his lenity and feverity, his 
jong-fuffering and Zeal, ‘his power and might, his ho- 
Jinefs and righteoufnefs among that people, that it will 
prove a blefling to his foul, and at the fame time a 
conftant incitement to the praife of God. 

As to other nations of thofe times, they had no fhare 
in this pecuhar covenant of grace, to.which the people 
of Ifrael were admitted ; they were therefore generally 
confidered as aliens, and commonly called heathen,.. 


§ 2. 
Yer we muft not think, as though God had lef¢ 


pimfelf without a witnefs among them. He manifefted 
himfelf to them by the works of creation, according to 
his omnipotence, goodnefs and wifdom. For whenever 
they beheld the heavens, the {un and the moon, toge- 
ther with that moft beautiful hoft of innumerable ftars; 
whenever they looked on the earth with all its plants, 
all the beafts, birds and infe&ts; when they confidered 
attentively the fprings, ftreams and the feas, with the 
fithes and other creatures therein, the thought muft ne- 
ceflarily arife in them: Who is he that made all thefe 


* Expofition of Chriftian Doétrine, p. 23, fqq. p» 141s 


fgq- 
u things? 5 


p___ leary. = es Se ee 


Ley 

things? Surely it muft be a great, wife, powerful and 
benevolent Being, from whom all this takes its rife, 
and by whom all is held in its due courfe, When they 
looked at themfelves, they could not help perceiving, 
by natural and rational inference, that their under- 
ftandings and faculties, as little as their bodies and the 
members thereof, and ftill lefs their lives, originated 
hot of themfelves; hence the conclufion: That Be- 
ing, who made and created mc, mutt indeed be great, 
good, wife and powerful, We have eyes to fee, eats 
to hear, feet to walk, hands to work, a mouth to fpeak; 
in a word, every thing in us is wonderfully formed and 
nade confiftent with the end it is defigned to anfwer. 
We ftand in need of eating, drinking, clothing, dwel- 
lings; ‘and all that can ferve thefe purpofes, we either 
find already upon the earth, or the warmth of the fun, 
the air and wind, the rain and dew from heaven, caufe 
them to grow for our ufe. Who giveth us all this? 
God, that great, good, wife and powerful Being *, 
Hence immediately flowed the thought: Should we 
- hot reverence this great and gracious God, fhould we 
hot love him; fhould we not ferve him, fhould we not 
thank him +? 


§ 3 


But how was it with refpe& to the heathen? Paul 
faith: ** Becaufe that when they knew God, they glo- 
rifed him not as God, neither were thankful, but be- 
came vain in their imaginations, and their foolifh heart 
was darkned—hevice, profefling themfelves to be wife, 
they became fools; and changed the glory of the ine 
corruptible God into an image made like to corruptible 
man, and to birds, and four-~footed beafts, and creeping 

* Expofitions p. 49- fqq + Expofition, p, 85, (qq. 
A 2 things, 


[4] 


things. Wherefore God alfo gave them up to unclearts 
nels, through the lufts ef their own hearts, to difhonour 
their own bodies between themfelves, &c.’”? Rom. i. 
21, {qq. Paul, explaining this farther, mentions divers 
fhameful things, by which the heathen themfelves be 
came an abomination, and adds: “ And, even as they 
did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave 
them over to 2 reprobate mind, to do thofe things which 
are not convenient : being filled with all unrighteouf- 
nefo, fornication, wickednefs, covetoufnefs, maliciouf- 
nefs, full of envy, murder, debate, * deceit, “malignity ; 
whi(perers, backbiters, haters of God, defpiteful; proud, 
boafters, mventors of evil things, difobedient to pa- 
rents, without underftanding, covenant-breakers, with- 
out natural affection, implacable, unmerciful,” Rom. 
i. 28, fqq. Hence we may deduce, that not only the 
moft abfurd and foolifh idolatries into which'the hea- 
then fell, but likewife the .fatanicaloand) more than 
beaftly abominations and wickednefles im ufe among 
them, were nothing elfe than chaftifements of God on 
them, becaufe they held the truth in unrighteoufnefs. 
~Now, whereas the heathen who inhabited the land of 
Canaan,—where God had before deftroyed the cities 
of Sodom and Gomorrah, Adamah and Zeboim, with 
fire and brimftone, on account of fuch abominations, 
gen. xix. 1, & {qq.—had been guilty not only of 
this, but of many other { 

which notice is taken in Levit. xviii. 1, fqq. and xx, 
2—23. God therefore would pofitively have them 
exterminated by the [fraelites, together with all the 
women and children. See Exod. xxiii. 32, faq. xxxiv. 
12, fqq. Dent. vii, 2, faq. 


For this caufe then, that the Ifraelites misht not 


be induced to commit fuch abominations, God, in 
eral- for 1 eham 4 - 1s fiz | } 
generals forbad them all communication with the hea- 


then, 


LT TE 


E33 
then, nor would he even allow an Ifraclite to eat with 
a heathen. 


§ 4 


NoTWITHSTANDING this, one, cannot deny that 
many of the heathen very greatly benefited by the 
fingular mercies God vouchfafed to confer on the 
people of Ifrael. Nor could the wonderful government 
of the Lord among the Ifraelites remain long concealed 
from other nations. ‘* We have heard,” faid Rahab, 
“ how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea for 
you when you came out of Egypt, and what you did 
unto the two kings of the Amorites that were on the 
other fide Jordan, Sihon and Og, whom ye utterly de- 
ftroyed. And as foon as we (the Canaanites) had heard 
thefe things, our hearts did melt, neither did there remain 
any more courage in any man, becaufe of you for the 
Lord your God, he és God in heaven above, and in earth 
beneath,” Jofh. ii. 10, fqq. fee alfo ch, ix. 24. Itis 
likewife known from hiftory, that the glorious divine 
worthip at Jerufalem, efpecially after Solomon had built 
the temple, was reforted to by many heathen, who not 
only became acquainted with the law of God, but ma- 
ny of them alfo embraced the religion of the Ifraelites. 
Many nations were likewife reproved for their fins by 
the prophets, whom God called forth among the Ifrae- 
lit®s, and who announced divine judgements upon them 
unlefs they amended. We fee with admiration, from 
Jonah iii. 4, {qq. what blefled effects the preaching of 
the prophet Jonah produced in the king and people of 
Nineveh :. When not only the refidue of the Ifraclites 
in Canaan, but alfo the Egyptians, the Philiftines, 
thofe of Tyre and Sidon, the Moabites, and other 
neighbouring nations, were, according to the.counfel 

of 


Fr ERT aT 


7 
7 


M 
4 
i 


{6 J 

of God, to fall under the yoke of the king of Babylost, 
the Lord ordered Jeremiah to foretel it to them, with 
the admonition, to fubmit willingly, if they would 
avoid a miferable deftrution, For he himfelf, the Lord 
God, had fent the king of Babylon upon them, on ac- 
count of their fins. Even the captivity of the Ifrae- 
lites in Babylon, which continued for feventy years, 
and the long foretold termination of it by Cyrus, made 
the heathen acquainted with the God of Ifrael, as mey 
be feen in the prophet Daniel, 


§ 5 


Bese this, we are not to confider God’s covenant 
of grace with the people of Ifrael in fuch a view, as tho® 
God, becaufe he granted fuch prerogatives to the Ifrace 
lites, had, on this account, relinquithed all care for the 
fouls of the heathen. O, no! forall fouls are his. God 
certainly tries with every man all that may cofiduce to 
his advantage, and this he does in various ways, confiftent 
with his love and wifdom. And here we may apply 
what Elihu faid: ‘* In a dream, in a vifion of the night, 
when deep fleep falleth upon nien, in flumberings up- 
on the bed; then he openeth the ears of man, and feal- 
eth their inftrudtion: that he may withdraw man from 
his purpofe, and hide pride from man. He keepeth 
back his foul from the pit, and his life from perifhing 
by the fword: he is chaftned alfo with pain upon his 
bed, &c. Lo, all thefe things worketh God often- 
times with man, to bring back his foul from the pit, 
to be enlightned with the light of the living,” job 
XXXlil, 15, {qq. * 

Paul, {peaking to the Jews, in Rom. ii. declares 
with energy, that they were by no means better than 


* Expofition of Chriftian Dottrine, § 37. 
the 


til 


cy] 

the Gentiles before God, though he had committed his 
law unto them, unlefs they lived alfo conformably to 
the law. For if a heathen, who had not the written 
Jaw, but yet knew well enough what is right, and 
wrong, (for that was written in his heart); if fuch an 
one did the things contained.in the law, he would un- 
doubtedly be juftified in the judgement of God, before 
a Jow that boafted of the law, and yet obferved it not. 
For there is no refpe& of perfons with God. 

In the abovementioned chapter Paul alfo makes 2 
difference between. Jews and Jews. (By Jews he means 
not only thofe belonging to the tribe of Judah, but all 
Ifraelites), ‘‘ He is not a Jew,” faith he, ‘* which is 
one outwardly; but he is a Jew, which is one ine 
inwardly,” Rom. ii, 28, 29. 

Thus likewife he maketh a difference between hea= 
then and heathen, giving to underftand that an héa- 
then, who knoweth and doeth what is right, is as va 
luable before God as a Jew, although he had not been 
circumcifed outwardly; and that, on the other hand, a 
Jew that glorieth in the outward circumcifion, but who 
yet keepeth not the Jaw, which infifts on the love of 
God and one’s neighbour, was to the full as bad as any 
heathen, 


§ 6 


Gop therefore is not only a God of the Jews, but 
ef the Gentiles alfo; and it is evident, from the ferip- 
tures of the Old Teftament, that he always thought of 
the falvation of the Gentiles ; and, to {peak after the 
manner of men, rejoiced as it were at the time, when 
the Gentiles alfo fhould become his people. For when 
he, by his prophets, fet before the Jews, who were not 
a whit better than the moft diffolute heathen, his im- 

pending 


pending judgements, he always fpoke comfort to them 
that were Ifraelites indeed, and among others alfo with 
this, that the multitude of the Gentiles fhould be gathered 
“and with them fhould be one people. See Ifa. ii. 2, {qq. 
xiii. 5, &c. xlix. 18, &c. Iv. 5. Ix. 3, &c. Ixv. 1, 
&c, Zach. ii. 10, &c. viii. 22. Mich. iv. 1, &c. Mal, 

ee 
God had already promifed to Abraham, “ In thy 
feed ;”’ and Paul declares that this feed of Abrabam is 
Chrift, Gal. iii. 16. ** In thy feed fhall all the nations 
of the earth be bleff:d,” Gen. xxii. 18. And this pré« 
mife he repeated not only to Ifaac, but alfo to Jacob, 
Gen. xxvi. 4. and xxviii. 14. By the prophet Jere- 
miah the Lord declareth the fame: ‘* The nations fhall 
be bleffed in him, and fhall glory in him,” Jer. iv. 2. 
‘To Chrift, the mediator of the new covenant, God 
faith: ‘I fhall give thee the heathen for thine inhe- 
ritance, and the uttermoft parts of the earth for thy 
poflefion,” Pfalm ii. 8. And, in the prophet Ifaiah, he 
faith: “‘ It is a light thing that thou fhouldeft be my 
fervant to raife up the tribes of Jacob, and to reftore 
the preferved of Ifrael : I will alfo give thee for a light 
to the Gentiles, that thou mayeft be my falvation unto 
the end of the earth,” Ifa. xlix. 6. In like manner; 
** Behold my fervant, whom I uphold; mine cleét, in 
whom my foul delighteth: I have put my Spirit upon 
him ; he fhall bring forth judgement to the Gentiles,” 
Ifa. xiii. 1, And farther: ‘* 1 give thee for a cove- 
nant of the people, fora light of the Gentiles, to oper 
the blind eyes, to bring out the prifoners from the pri 
fon, and them that fit in darknefs out of the prifons 
houfe,” Ifa. xlii. 6, 7. In the Pfalms, where the deep 
humiliation of the Lord our Saviour, and his heavy and 
bitter fufferings are fpoken of, in the fpirit of prophe= 
cy, it is faid immediately after: ‘* All the ends of the 
world 


ei 
me a 


Co] 


world ¢hall remember and turm unto the Lord :-and al} 
the! kindreds of the nations.thall worfhip béfore thee,” 
Pfalmoxxii. 27. But when ourchord Jefus Chrift is 
decribed by the prophetsiasthe King of glory; that 
fat down. at the right hand .of his Father in heayen; 
the paflages treating of him are very sumerous ; the 
iz, among the refty -ate remarkable p..<* Hes 
the King, fhall fpeak peace among the heathen, and 
his dominion fhall be from fea even to fea, and from 


followi 


} 


the river even unto the ends of the earth,” Zech. ix, ro. 
Again: ‘©All kings thal! fall down before him ;-all 
nations thall ferve him,’* Pfalm Ixxii. ry. When the 
promulgation of the gofpel is mentioned, then “the 
Holy Spirit faithy by the mouth of David: ‘* There 
is no fpeech, nor language, where their voice is not 
heard. Their line is gone out through all the earth, 
and their words to the end of the world,” Pfalm' xix? 
3,4. Heathenifm is by theiprophets deferibed as 2 
wildernefs and folitary placej and then it is faid, cons 
cerning the times of the New Teftament +: ** The wil- 
dernefs flaal} be a fruitful field, and the fruitful field 
be counted for a foreft,” Ifa. xxxii, 1g. 0 Further? 
*¢ The wildernefs and the folitary place fhall be-glad 
for them, and the defert fhall rejoice and blofiom as 
the rofe;” Ha xxxv. 15 {qq.1Now, in the above words 
whatever is exprefled figuratively, is by the prophets 
in other places, mentioned quite plainly; e.g.) “Ip 
fhall comé to pfs that in the place where it. was faid 
unto them, Ye are not my peoples there ft fhall be faid 
unto them; Ye are the fons of the living God,” Hof. 
i. 10. Andagain: ‘¢1 wilhhave mercy upon her that 
had not obtained mercy, and 1 will fay to:them which 
were not my people, Thow art. my people; and they 
fhall fay; Thou are my God,” Hof. ii. 23. Novte 
mention many peculiar promifesgivea to this or the 


B other 


[ 10 J 

other beathenifh country, in a view to their being made 
partakers of the grace of the New Teftament. | likee 
wile pafs over many other pafflages of the prophets, it 
appearing fufficiently from tho‘e juft quoted, that, in 
the time of the old covenant, God repeatedly remem- 
_ bered the heathen, and that he would at the appointed 
hour adm.t them alfo into his covenant. 


§ 7. 


WHen the fulnefs of time was come, God fent his 
Son into the world, and thereby caufed great joy to al} 
them that were waiting for the confolation of Ifrael. 
Among thefe there was one Siméon, an Ifraelite indeed, 
to whom it was revealed upon his prayer to God, by the 
Holy Ghoft who was upon him, that he fhould not fee 
death, before he had feen the Lord’s Chrift, the Mef- 
fiah. He came by the Spirit into the temple, when the 
child Jefus was brought in and prefented to the Lord as 
the firft-born and called holy. Then Simeon took the 
¢hild up in his arms, and blefled Ged, and faid : 
** Lord, now letteft thou thy fervant depart in peace, 
according to thy word. For mine eyes have feen thy 
falvation: which thou hat prepared before the face of 
all people: 4 light to lighten the Gentiles, and the glory 
of thy people Ifrael,” Luke ii. 22, fqq. Thus did God 
openly manifeft, by the Holy Spirit, that this child, his 
Chrift, his Anointed, was alfo the Saviour of the Gen- 
tiles. Some wife men alfo came from the Eat to Je 
rufalem (they were learned Gentiles}, in order to adore 
this new-born King of the Jews; and, being direéted 
tO go to Bethlehem, they there faw the young child 
with Mary his mother, and fell down and worthipped 
him, Matt. ii. It is probable that they might hope 
for his appearance, perhaps from the times of Danie}, 


who 


a 


cabal, __ ean ee “is COM me 


fx] 


who, had. fo. -glorioufly prophefied pf him at Babylons- 


In this hope they were confirmed, when they now be- 
held the fame ftar, they had already feen in the Eat, ia 
Judea, ftanding over where the young child was. 
Hence we may, with great probability, infer, that ma- 
ny heathen hoped and expected to derive, much blefiing 
from this King of the Jews. 


§ 8 


Yer our Lord Jefus Chrift did not, in perfon;-preach 
the gofpel to the heathen. For this he affigns the rea- 
fon in thefe words: ‘‘ J am not fent, but unto the loft 
fheep of the houfe of Ifrael,” Matt. xv. 24. . Nor 


would he, in the time.of his walking here on,earth,' 


permit his difciples to preach to the Gentiles. In the 
inftru&tion he gave them it was exprefsly faid: ‘* Go 
not into the way of the Gentiles, and into any 
city of the Samaritans enter ye not,” Matth. «75. 
In the mean time he was, however, not unwilling to 
afford his help even to heathen, when they applied to 
him. A woman of Canaan—probably a defcendant 
from thofe nations; who, on account of their wicked- 
nefs, were an abomination to God, and whom, for this 
reafon, he would have to be extirpated by the Ifraelites 
—this woman cried unto him for her daughter, wha 
was grievoufly vexed with a devil ; “he at fir put her 
faith to the trial. But, fhe perfevering, he faid unto 
her: **O woman, great is thy faith: be it unto thee 
eyen ag thou wilt. And herdaughter was made whole 
from that very hour,” Matt. xv. 2228. A Roman 
centurion came unto him, befeeching him for his fers 
vant, whowas fick of the palfy and. grievoufly tor- 
mented, faying: ‘* Speak the word only, and my fers 
vant fhall be healed, Then faid Jefus unto him: Ga 

R2 thy 


- 


LEE AOI” - 


h 


| 


[12] 
thy way; and as thou haft believed, fo be it done utito 
thée, Anu his fervatit was healed in the felf-fame hour,?? 


‘Matt. viii. 5,13. Nordid our Lord Jefus C tif wholly 


abandon the Samii tans, Who wére“int fa@ not much 
better than the heathen; for their religion’ was a mix- 


-ture of Judaifm and Heathenirm, as may be perceived 


from the account of his converfation with a woman of 
Samaria, and its confequences, John iv. 4, fqq But, 
that the heathen were likewife intended to attain te the 
new covenant of grace, fo frequently indicated by the 
appellation of the kingdom of GodjoChrift plainly in- 
timated) to the difciplesy partly ina“ fundry parables, 
whichimay be! seadiin Matt. xxi. 28-+g1.° and xxii. 
r=“i4. and partly expreffed it in plain terms. Gee 
Matteviii.11, ov and’ xxi. 42. 


$9. 


Ber let us now eonfider how our Lard Jefds Chritt 
executed the cotinfel of God with recard’ to’ the hea-’ 
then? ‘According to his deep’ wifdom} ‘he chéfe '‘per- 
foris of mean* extraction to be his witnéffes upon’ earth j 
they pole fied no philofophical knowledge, but yc ot were 
not’ unacquainted with ‘the Looks of holy writ, then 
extant) ' Paul hadindeed’ beeh brought up‘at the feet" 
oF Gamaliel; a fotable ‘teacher in Jewifh’ Titehature = 
yet, he had! at the fame time learned*the’bufinefs of '4 
tent-niaker,’ agreeable ‘to the common opinion of the 
Jews, who thought, that a father who did not ‘let his 
fon ‘learn: fome bafinefs, aed as improperly as if' he 
taught him to fteats < To-all thefe che Lord gave ‘com 
matidmenc, that! they fhould go into all the worldjand 
preach the gofpebito every creature; that is, tovallthe 
heathen, Matt.rxxviiiwrg» Mark xvi. 15. But though 
the apoftles im general shad'this commandment, ‘to: igo 


intg 


) 


— ew 


(1 

into al] the world, and to preach the gofpel to ‘all the 
heathen ; yet*is Paul- particularly called the Apoftle of 
the Gentiles, becaufe-he had indeed laboured among 
them more than all the ref 

Peter was the firft that preached the gofpel to a Ro- 
man centurion, Cornelius, and to his relations and 
friends, who were called together to that end; What 
was the fubjecét-of his preaching’? He fpake of Chrift 
Jefus, as the Anointed of God, and Lord of alk Him 
God had fent to preach peace unto the children of Ifrael, 
which’he alfo did. That he went about doing good, 
and healing all that were oppreffed of the devil, for God 
was with hin. Him they flew and hanged on‘a tree. 
Him God raifed up the third day.” They, the apofs 
tles,“had feen him after his refurre€tion ; and he had 
commanded them to preach unto the people, and to 
teftify, that it is he which was orddined of God “to be 
the Judgé of quick and dead. “And in’ ‘Conclufion 
Petér added’: - To him give all the prophets witaefs, 
that through his name, whofoever believeth in* him, 
fhall reéeive Femiffion of fins. © While Peter yet {pake 
theft wofds,’ the Holy Ghoft fell on all them which 
heard the’ word, and they were directly baptized. Now 
what wis the whole contents of the apoftle Peter’s fer~ 
mon’ to the"heathen ?''Why,' Chrift; the Meffiah, fent 
of God, and that he was \the-way ‘to obtain falvation 
for all men that believe’on him, Ads x. 34, {qq. 


§ 10. 


Pauv’s ¢alling to the labour in thé gofpel among 
the Gentiles ‘was attended with peculiar folemnity. 
Our Lord Jefus Chrift appeared to him at mid-day, in 
a fplendor far furpaffing the brightnefs of the fun, which 
fo gieatly dazzled his eyes, as to-depriye him of fight. 

Three 


Cwy 

Three day and three nights he continued in this me- 
lanchely condition; and, as the Lord Jefus had called 
to him from heaven, faying, ‘* Saul, Saul, why perle- 
Cuteft thou me ?”—we know, that whofoever perfecutes 
the members of Chrift, perfecutes him him(cif—one 
may readily conceive in what anguith, diftrefs, pain 
and yepentance, he {pent that time in watching, faft- 
ing, tears and prayers. Upon which, according to 
God’s command, he was comforted by Rosatin” re- 
ftored.to fight, baptized and filled with the Holy Ghoft, 
and immediately confefled openly, that Jefus of Naza- 
reth was the Chrift. .O how willingly doth the Lord 
our Saviour forgive, even his blafphemers and perfecu- 
tors their fins, if they turn to him! Ads ix. 1, {qq- 

At this firit appearing, our Lord Jefus Chrift called 
Paul to his fervice among the Gentiles in thefe words: 
“¢ I have appeared ganto thee for this purpofe,. to make 
thee a minifter and awitnefs both of thofe things which 
thou, haft feen, and of thofe things in the which I wilh 
appear unto thee; delivering thee from the people (the 
Jews), and from the Gentiles, unto whom now I fend, 
thee, to apen their eyes, and to turn them from darke 
nefs to light, and from the power of fatan unto God,’ 
that they may receive forgivenefs of fins, and. an inhe- 
ritance among them which are fan@ified by. faith that 
ip in me,” Adts xxvi. 16, 4.7, 28. 

Upop this Paul went to Arabia; and then, after 
three years, he went up to Jerufalem, Gal. i. 17, 18. 
And, while praying there in the Temple, the Lord ap- 
peared to him again, and commanded him to make hafte 
and, get quickly out of Jerufalem, for he would fend 
him far thence unto the Gentiles, Aéts xxii. 

While he was at Antioch, certain teachers and pro- 
phets joined with him in prayer and fatting, when’the 
Holy Ghoft faig: ‘* Separate.me Barnahas and Saul 

for 


[15] 

for the work, whereunto I have called them,” A&s 
xiii. Upon this he again went among the Gentiles. 

Let us, however, well obferve what he faith in Gal, 
i, 11, 12. “* I certify you, brethren, that thé gofpel, 
which was preached of me, is not. after man. For I 
neither received it of man; neither was I taught it, 
but by the revelation of Jefus Chrift.” The fame he 
teftified to the Corinthians: ** I have received of the 
Lord, that which alfo I delivered unto you,” 1 Cor. 
xi, 23. and xv, 3. 


§ rr. 


TxvsS it pleafed God to reveal his Son in Paul, that 
he mizht preach him among the heathen, Gal. i. 16. And 
indeed Pau! counted all things but Jofs for the excel- 
lency of the knowledge of Chrift Je@ié his Lord, Phil, 
iii. 8. He faith concerning himfeff: * 7 determined not 
to know any thing among you, fave Fefus Chrift, and him 
crucified,” 1 Cor. ii. 2. It was Chrift Jefus, whom he 
laid down as the foundation, teftifying, that ‘* other 
foundaticn can no man fay; that all was to be built upon 
him, 1 Cor, ili. 11, -fqq. Hence he calls himfelf ** a 
fervant of Jefus Chritt, called to be an apoftle, and 
Separated té preach the gafpel of God, of the Son of God,” 
Rom. i. 

The contents of his fermons are briefly comprized 
in thefe words: ** We preach Chrifl crucified, unto the 
Jews a ftumbling- block, and unto the Greeks (the 
heathen) foolifhnefs ; but unto them which are called, 
both Jews and Greeks, Chriff the power of Ged, and the 
wifdom of God,” 1 Cor. i. 23, 24. 

And thus Paul preached for the fpace of two years, 
daily, at Ephefus, fo that all they which dwelt in Afia 
heard the word of the Lord Fefus, AGs xix. 10. And, 


being 


[ 16 J 

being at Rome, he dwelt two years in his own hired 
houle, preaching the kingdom of God, and teaching thofe 
things which concern the Lord JFefus Chrift with all. confi- 
dence, Acts xxviii 39, 3”. Hence it is vory clear that 
Chrift was the marrow and fap of Paul's preachiog, 
whom he every where laid for the foundation, and 
thac it was his chief concern to derive every thing 
from him. 


§ 12. 


However, though we find very litde recorded in 
holy writ concerning the labours of the other apottles 
among the heathen, . befides what has been quoted in 
§ g. (indeed that which we read of Philip in A@s viii, 
27,1qq alfo belongs to this article) yet we have reafon 
to thank God for having caufed fo much to be handed 
down to us of Paul’s labours. There it appears, that 
Paul fpoke differently to different people, yet always 
in: fuch a manner as conftantly to lead to Chrift. In 
deed the do@rine of Chrift’s death upon the crofs was 


always the main point of his preaching. And why? 
becaufe by Ais death we obtain falvation and the for- 
givenefs of fins, Therefore he alfo calls the gofpel 
fimp!y ** the preaching of the crofs,” as e.g. 1 Cor. i. 18. 
‘s The preaching of the crofs is to them that pezith, 


foolifhnefs; but unto us, which are faved, it is the 
power of God.”’.. Compare with Rom. i. 16. For the 
fame reafon he calls the gofpel briefly ¢ the word of re= 
conciliation,” and the office of a minifter of the gofpel is 
called, ‘* the miniflry of reconciliation,” 2 Cor. y. 18, 
In. this view alfo Paul evidently fet forth, before the 
eyes of the Galatians, Jefus Chrift crucified among. 

them, Gal. iii. 1. 
He likewife fpake of the refurreGion of Chrift,. his 
dwelling in glory, his coming again to execute judge~ 
ment, 


hb ttelembeitn ke 


[37 J 
ment. In fhort, taking altogether what I can find in 
holy writ concerning Paul, I thould fuppofe the con- 
tents of his preaching to thofe “heathen that were not 
yet converted, to have been nearly this: ‘* Ye poor 
heathen have hitherto had no fhare in the covenant, 


“which God made with the people of Ifrael: ye have 


lived in abominable idolatry, and in other horrible 
fins.’ But Ged will now begin to do anew thing among 
you, fince’he -hath fent«his Son into the world to be 
the’ Saviour of all mens* Him they have indeed cruci+ 
fied and flain; ‘but he is rifen again, and afcended inte 


‘heaven. “He now hath fent us to acquaint the heathen 
2 > 


that in Chrift they may obtain the remiffion of fins, life 
“and falvation. But then they muff forfake their wicked 
ways, wherein’ they Have walked hitherto, and mutt :e- 
ceive Chrift, by faith, as their Lord and Redeemer, 
who is alfo the light of }the! Gentiles. Aad, if they 
are baptized in his name, they will be cleanfed from 
‘their fins, made. partakers of the Holy Ghoft, and deli- 
vered from ‘the power of darknefs; they become tke 
children of God, and heirs of eterna! life. If they 
believe not, they are condemned: for Chrift will ape 
pear unto judgément, and give unto every man ac- 
cording to his works.” For the apoftie’s office was 
to eflablifh among the heathen, cbedience to the faith in Chrift, 
And thus the gofpel of Chrift was the power of God 
to every one that believeth, Rom, i, 5. and xvis 


3 13. 


As-to the manner of his preaching, Paul. declares 

more than once, efpecially to the Corinthians. * When 
’ > 

I came unto you, faith he, J came not with excel ency of 

Speech, cr of wijdom, declaring unto you the teftimcny of God,” 

} Cor, ii, 1. Likewife:”**° We have not received the 

C , {pirig 


NETTIE II 


f 18 } 


Spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is of God, that 
we might know the things that are freely given to us of 
God; which things we alfo {peak, not in words which 
‘man's wifdom teacheth, but which the Healy Ghift teacheth,?? 
x Cor. ii. 12,13. For this he affigns the reafon in the 
following words: ** Chrift fent me to preach the gof- 
pel: not with wifdom of words, left the crofi of Chrift 
Should be made of none effcé? ; for the preaching of the 
crofs (of Chrift) is, furely, foolifhnefs to them, that 
perith; but unto us, which are faved, it is the. power 
of God,” 1 Cor. i, 17, 18, And farther: ** My fpeech 
and my preaching was not with enticing words of man’s 
wi/dom, but in demonftration of the Spirit and of pow~ 
er: that your faith foould not ftand in the wifdom of man, 
but in the power of God,” 1 Cor. ii, 45 5° 


§ 14. 


To make this clear, I cannot help taking notice, 
that rhetoric was in thofe days very common: both 
among the Romans and the Greeks, Peoplewere taught 
to fpeak with art and choice words, which: pleafe mens 
and bring them over to the fpeaker’s opin on, fo that 
they hardly know what is come to them, their paffions 
are moved, they are carried away and induced to receive 
that which is propounded to them. This, faith Paul, 
was not the manner in which | preached the gofpe] 
unto you. At that time there were alfo among the 
Romans, as well-as among the Greeks, many philofos 
phers; thefe fought for wifdom, and ftrained the power 
of their underftanding to acquire more knowledge and 
infight than other people were pofleffed of. By this they 
diftinguithed themfelves, fet up fchools, endeavouring 
to inculcate their opinions to others, and wrote books 
epon them. ‘They would, e.g. {peak of this and the 

other 


Sd 


[19 J 
other virtue, alledging reafon upon reafon, why i it ought. 
td be diligently followed after. “Yet all fuch reprefena 
tations could not convey into poor people any power 
to forfake evil, and to follow after that which is good ; 
although ety: reafons wete ever fo {pecious, and con- 
fidered as excellent wifdom. t 

Now, faith Paul, it was not at all om this wife, that 
lie preached the gofpel. Declaring that the word of the 
crofs was in itfelf fraught with divitie power; nor did 
it and in need of any human argumentation in order 
to gain entrance; feeing that there was nothing in it 
that was in the leaft inconfiftent with divine wifdom ; 
though it be not comprehenifible to men that ate wife after 
this world, and who look upon it as foolifhnefs, Nor 
was it in the leaft deficient in point of plaihnefs, fecing 
that it was hid and unintelligible to them only that 
were loft. The caufe of it was this, that the god of 
this world (that is, the devil, whom it ferves) hath 
blinded the minds of them which believe not, left the 
light of the glorious gofpel of Chrift, who is the i image 
of God, fhould fhine unto them, 2 Cor. iv. 3, 4. Nay, 
Paul hot only deemed it needlefs to fet forth the gof- 
pel in high terms of human wifdom, but even believed 
it dangerous. Believing that the word of the crofs of 
Chrift, or the gofpel, might be weakned tMereby, and: 
be made of none effet; as wine is weakned by the 
addition of water, and yet may be fold for genuine 
wine. Thus his fentiment was this: If I preach the 
gofpel without any human additions, faith will be 
grounded upon the word of God; and that is fraught 
with divine power, That is, it will reft on a firm, 
ftedfaft'and immoveable bafis. 

If a man believes for this reafon, becaufe an cloquent 
fpeaker, or philofopher, renders his fubject agreeable, 
backs it with many proofs, and a charming {election 

Ca of 


[ 26 } 


of words: the faith of fuch a one is grounded on wit, 
dom barely human. Now if another eloquent fpeaker 

and philofopher comes, and with as many proofs. and 

‘words as beautiful as the former, demonftrates the 

OPpofite to that which the former had demonftrated 

the faith of fuch an one wayvers, and is inconfiftent. 

And is not this plainly obyious in our days ? Here the 

one endeavours to render certain doétrines of the gof- 

pel plaufible and rational by dint of human wifdom, 

while another alledges as many reafons, and brings as 

much human wifdom to prove that the fame doGrines 

are equally incomprehenfible and irrational. He, whofe 

faith ftandeth on fuch grounds, is like a fhip at fea 

without her rudder. On the contrary, whofoever be- 

lieves the gofpel, becaufe it is the word of God, which 

he hath experienced in his own: foul as the power of 
God, he abideth fecure in the midf of ftorms and trie 
bulations, 


§ 15. 


Wuat our Lord Jefus Chrift gave Paul to under« 
ftand by Ananias, on his fir obtaining mercy, namely, 
that he would. thew him how great things he mutt fuf- 
fer for his name’s fake, AGs ix. 16. was,. in the fequel, 
abundantly fulfilled in. him. 


He gives a brief account 
of it in 2 Cor, xi. 23, (qq. and what he faith of this is 
remarkable: “ We rejoice in hope of the glory of Ged; 
and not only fo, but ze glory in: tribulations alfa,” Rom. 
Ve 2, 3. He therefore could with much confidence ex= 
hort his fellow-labourers, 2 Cor. vi. 1, {qq. which 
paflage ought to be deeply and faithfully laid to heart 
by all the fervants of Jefus, 

Paul alfo confirmed what he taught among the heaa 
then by his own example, He thercfore could-confi- 
- dently 


Sa 


[ 20 } 


denthy fay: “Brethren, be follawers together of me, and: 
mark them which walk fo, as ye bave.us for om enfample,™ 
Phil. iii, 17. And: farther: *¢ Finally, brethren, what- 
foever things are true, whaifoever things are honeft,: 
whatfoever things are juft, whatfocver things are pure, 
whatfoever things are lovely, whatfoever things are of 
good report: if there be any virtue, and if there be any 
praife, think of thefe things: thofe things, which ye have 
both learned and received, and heard and feen in me, day 
and the God off peace fhall be with you,” Pail.-iv., 
8, 9. fee alfo r Theff. ii. 10, Thus he continued till 
he faw the end of his days.drawing near, and then he 
wrote to Timothy: “I have fought a good fight, I 
have finifhed my courfe, I have kept the faith; henee- 
forth there is laid up for me a crown of righteoufnefs, 
which the Lord the righteous Judge fhall give me at 
that day,” 2 Tim. iv. 7, 8. fee alfo 1 Cor. iv. 16. and 
xi. r. where he faith, Be ye followers of me, even as Lalfe 
em of Chrift. 

I do not confider the miracles and wonders wrought 
by Paul among the Gentiles in that view, as being at 
all neceffary to the confirmation of the gofpel, in Acts 
xiv. 3. and xix. 18, fqq. As there is no occafion to 
prové that the fun yields light and warmth, that proving 
itfelf ; fo the gofpel proves the power of God unto fal~ 
vation to every one that believeth, for it is the word 
of God. The miracles were, however, an undoubted 
proof of Paul’s apoftlefhip, and of his being 
God. 

But what thal! we fay of Paul’s zeal againft Elymas 
the forcerer, who endeavoured to prevent the governor 


fent of 


A. § 


Sergius Paulus from believing in Chrift! when he ad- 
dreffes him thus: ** O full of all fubthety and all mif- 
chief, thou child of the de vil, thou enemy of all rizh- 


ai. 


teoufnefs, wilt thou not ceafe to pervert the right 


wo 


Way 
4 


{ 2%] 


ways of the Lord? And now, behold, the hand of the 


Lord is@pon thee, and thou thalt be blind, not ‘feeing 
the fun for a feafon,” A@s xiii. 10, It. -Was this the 
fire of nature, or heat of paffion? O no! For it is ex- 
prefsly faid that Paul, when he was uttering this, was 
filled with the Holy Ghoft, Aés xiii, g- If a:fervant 
of Chrift in our days were to {peak te people, that do 
the fame thing as Elymas did, on this wife, what would 
they think and fay of him? But Paul faid: ** Who is 
offended, and I burn not?” 2 Cor. i 29s 


4 


§ 16. 


‘Tre confequences-of preaching the pofpel among 
the heathen were thefe, that fome of them believed, 
and others believed not. That our Lord and Saviour, 
who was hanged on the crofs and flain, fhould be riferr 
again and afcended up into heaven, many could not at 
all reconcile this with their ideas, and therefore they 
eonfidered it as a foolifh faying. As little could they 
comprehend and find it confifent with their notions, 
that they, through faith in this Jefus, who was cruci« 
fied, and by no other way or means fhould obtain fors 
givenefs of fins, and life everlafting. And when they 
heard of the refurreGtion of the dead, they mocked, 
A&s xvii. 32. Felix the governor trembled as Paul 
reafoned of righteoufnefs, temperance, and judg¢ment 
to come, Acts xxiv. 25. but yet he received not the 
gofpel which he had heard of Paul, becaufe he loved 
fin. 

Many, however, received the fofpel of Chrift in faith 
and were baptized, When Philip preached the gofpel 
of Je‘us to the Ethiopianeunuch, a man of great aus 
thority under queen Candace, and he thereupon with- 
ed to be baptized, Philip faidy “ If thou believe with 

all 


{ 23] 


gil thine heart, thou. mayeft.”. On his confefling ¢ 
*¢ | believe that Jefus Chrift is the Son. of God,” he 
forthwith obtained holy baptifm. The jailog at Phi- 
Jippi, who. at firft drew his fword and would have killed 
himfelf, and afterwards afked trembling: ‘¢ What muft 
I do to.be faved?” was anfwered by Pauly ‘°* Believe 
gn the Lord Jefus Carif, and thou thalt be faved, and. 
thy houfe.””. Upon this (which was about midnight) 
he {fpake unto him the word of the Lord, and to &ll 
that were in his houfe;..and, believing in God, with 
all his houfe, he, and all his, were baptized. ftraight- 
way the fame-niybt,”. AGs xvi. 23, fqq. Thus. the 
apoftles as little delayed to baptize the Gentiles, when 
they believed in Jcfus, as they did. the Jews, when. they 
received the word with faith, as,may be feen in Aéts ii. 
For, thexe Peter was preaching the gofp>l of. Chrift-to 


-the Jews, and, told them freely, that they had, by 


wicked hands,.crucified and flain Chrift; and when ° 
they were pricked in their heart, and afked, Men and 
pent, and turn to Chrift, Then they that gladly ree 
Geived his woid, were baptized; and the fame day there 
were added uno them about three. thoufand fouls: 
obtaining the remiffion of fins, and receiving the gift 


gf the Holy Ghog, 


§ 17. 


Wor did the apoftles ceafe to give the believers fare 
ther inftruction after baptifm. ‘Thus, e. g. Paul fpent 
a whole year with Barnabas, in teaching the church 
at Antioch, Acts ii. 26... At Corjnth he continued a 
year and fix months, teaching the word of God among 
them, Acts xviii. 11. At Ephefus he feparated the 
difciples, that is, the believers, and had meetings with 

them 


[ 24 J 

hem ‘every day for the {pace of two-years, Aéts xix. 
con YOs'» Where Paul himfelf could not tarry, or return 
again, there he Jeft one or another of “his fellow- 
Jabourers behind, or caufed fuch churches to be vfited 
By them, that thus they might obtain farther inftruc- 
tion. In his epiftles, of which many are yet extant, 
and for which we thank God, he gave them alfo ex- 
cellent alvice, reminding them partly of what they had 
‘heard of him, and partly explaining to them yet fur- 
ther, what h- had begun to tell them of God, of his 
works, and of his will. Nay, he alfo made them aé- 
quainted with many paflages of the {criptures of the 
Oid- Teftament, as appears by 1 Cor. x, and Gal. iii, 
‘Thus doing what our Saviour had commanded: ** Go 
"yc, therefore, and reach al] nations, baptizing them in 
‘the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the 
Holy Gholt; teaching them to objerve all things, whatfoever 
Z have commanded you,’ Matt. xxviii. 19, 20; 


§ 18, 


Pav likewife ordered, in all places where he had 
preached: the gofpel, how the meetings of believers 
fhould and ought tobe condu&ted. One may réad what 
he wrote on this head to the Corinthians, in Cor. xivg 
W here not only Gentiles, but alfo Jews, had received, 
by faith, Chrift crucified.as their Lord and Saviour, he 
conftituted oxe-church of both, and maintained with 
great energy, that, according tothe gcfpel} the one was 
hot.to be preferred before the other, At the fame time 
Jeaving to believers from among the Jews, who thought 
themfelves obligatcd to obferve the law of Mofes, their 
full liberty in regard to the obfervance of certain days, 
or abftinence from this and the other fort of meats! 
But, as to believers from- the Gentiles, Pau! contended 

with 


RE YS TE OT Oe a ge 


( 25] 
with the greateft zeal againft thofe Jews, who were 
always endeavouring to compel others to be eircum- 
cifed, and to keep the law of Mofes with refpzé to 
certain days, meats, drefs, and the like. ‘Yet he every 
where earneltly infifted on a ftri@ obfervation of what 
the fynod had concluded upon in Aéts xv. He more= 
over introduced into the churches the holy commu- 
nion, or the facrament of the body and blood of Jefus 
Chrift, declaring: ‘* I have received of the Lord that 


7 


which I delivered unto you,” 1 Cor. xi. 233 fhewing 
at the fame time, how they were to behave in order to 
enjoy it with real benefit, r Cor. xi. 26, fqq. ‘He like- 
wife told them his mind refpe&ting believers from 
among the Gentiles, how they fhould condu€& them- 
felyes in regard to cloathing, and other matters be- 
longing to decency and good order, on which he ins 
fitted. 


§ 19, 


Wuere Paul found, in any church, perfons who 
had grace and gifts, he made them his helpers and fel- 
low labourers, and then, being certified of the will of 
the Lord therein, he would appoint them to be elders, 
teachers and fervants in the churches, Aéts xiv. 23. 
With fuch helpers he took peculiar pains, as appears 
evidently from his difcourfe to the elders of the church 
at Ephefus, whither he had fent for them tocome to him 
at Miletus. For there he faith: ** Remember, that by the 
Space of three years I ceafed not to warn every one night and 
day with tears, A&s xx. 31. He alfo moft earneftly re- 
commended ta them, to take heed unto themlelves, and 
to all the flock, and to feed the church of God, which 
he hath purchafed with his pwn blood, Aéts xx. 28. 
But wherever Paul could not perfonally make fuch re. 

3 ee gulations, 


gulations, he committed them to one 6r another of hig 
fellow labourers, ‘To this end he efpecially made ufe 
of his dear Timothy-and Titus, and gave thofe twa 
brethren good iaftru@ions in hishepittles, what they 
had -neceffarily to confider, when they.would ordain 
any elders, bithops and overfeers-thele. appellations 
meant at that time one and the famething—or when 
they would appoint a fervant of. the church, x Tim. 
it. 1, qq. andi what they had particularly to recom= 
mend to them, 1 Tim. v.17, {qq. He alfo fhews what 
they. were to abe -rve refpecting the female fex, 1- Tim, 
V,..2 {qq. and peur how they might make ufe of 
experienced women among their own fex, Este te tne 
deed all the labour of the apoftle on the believers from 
among the heathen ;tended_to this; that the word of 
God might be taught in Purity and clearnefs; and they 
might conformably to ir, live ‘h oly, as the children of 
God. He therefore infifted on di cipline and order 
among them, exhorting ee not only not to eat with 
aman who called himfelf a broth r, and yet lived in 
open works of theiethy at to’ putifuch ‘away from 
them, #Corive F,fqqs ) Nor'would he faffer any to 
go to the Lord's table if he-would not be freed from 
thin gs that were inconfiftent with the word ‘of God, 

and with eheJove‘of God and of our neighbour ; every 
one thould: examine. binvfelf,..and. if any “would<not 
amends» he ought’ tooftay: away, © Cor. x *. 16; fqq. 
1 Con-xi20, iqqs for he that drew near to it unwor- 
thily, would! thereby draw upon. himfelf ‘a judgément: 
of God,:andya chaltning from the Lord, 1 Cor. Xie 


2% fqq. 


- 


$ 29% 


§ 20. 


“WHat ‘Paul declares tothe elders of the ahutch 
of Ephefas: ‘Ye ist how I kept back hothing 
fliaf was profitable unto you, bit Have thewed you; 
and have taught ‘you ‘publicly, and from’ houfe to 
houfe: for I have not fhunnéd to declaré unto you 
all’ the counfel of Cod; A&ts xx. 20. and 27. ‘This 
lt ufed ‘to do in all places: However he obferved 
this difference, that he gave to every one their due 
meat: to children, he gave milk, 1 Cor. ir. 2, and to 
others, ftrong “meat, Heb. ¥. 12. He alfo confidered 
the circuriftarices in which every one was, and it was 
the Chief concetn of his heart té impart to éach, fuit- 
able advice. T’o the mafters he told} howthey were to-be~ 
have toward their fervants and flaves; and to fervants and 
flaves, how the y were'to beliaveé to their matters aécord- 


ing to the af fad of Chrift fefus. In fiiort, all and every 
eri fs 5 
r they were, whether children; young men, 


one, whoeve 
maidens, hufbands » Wives, Wi idowers, or widows, had 
their ake in the bate, inftruétion. But then ‘whe 
was ‘to be’ faid to every one in particular, was alfo par- 
ticularly inculeated to him and othérs who were in the 
like cafe with him, As in the churches fore were ap- 
Boitived to.be overfeers and watchmen over others, fo 
e informed both the one and the other; what was ex- 
pected of them as children of God. And whereas, at 
that time, the chriltian churches ftood entirely under 
the government o yf héathen princes and magiftrates, he 
exhorted them in. particular to a con(éientious and 
fubmiflive obedience towa rd them. At times he held 
vifitations.in the ¢hurches ; and, when Ne could not 
attend in perfon, he would fend, for this purpofe; one 
ér another of his fellow labourers, 


D ar; 


[28 J ~ 
§ 21. 


_» Here FE muft ftill take notice of fundry other peirts. 
“That God fhould render the Gentiles partakers of the 
fame grace that was beftowed on the Jews, was quite 


anew thing. And as the major part of the Jews de- 
fpifed the counfel of God concerning their falvation 
p : g , 
and were themlelves on this account rejected; there- 


fore the heathen who believed in Jefus were preferred 
before them, and became members of the body of 
Chrift, that is, his church. Now Paul exhorts them 
not to be proud, or by any means to think them: 
felves better than the Jews. For if they did not pre- 
ferve this grace in humility, nor make a faithful ufe of 
it, they might be rejeéted in the fame manner as the 
Jews were, Rom, xi. 16, fqq. 

The members of the churches, in the places where 
they lived, dwelling among the heathen, and their 
neareit of kin ftill continuing im Paganifm ; they were 
of courfe conftautly expofed to fuffer hurt in their 
fouls. Hence Paul exhorts them not to be unequally 
yoked with unbehevers, nor bave any fellowthip with 
them; for what communion hath light with darknefs, 
or what concord hath Chriff with Belial? 2 Cor, vi. 
14, 15. 

That Paul, for the reff, preached the gofpel gratis, 
in fundry places, to the heathen, as e. g. at Ephefus, 
Corinth, Theffalonica, not Making ufe of the liberty 
to receive his fubfiftence from them 3 which, however, 
had he done it, would not have been Wrong: he feems 
to have done thus, merély in order to be more exten- 
fively: ufefuls He was glad that he could earn fomes 
thing by his work, and that the brethren in Macedoniz 
fo kindly affiited him by their miniftration. 


Sy § 22. 


<meta 


{ 29} 


§ 22. 
: 


TuxErx were likewife people who rendered Paul’s 
office difficult to him, by fowing tares in the fields in 
which he ‘had to labour. They pretended that Paul 
did not teach the people right, and depreciated both 
him and his labours. They would infinuate, that Pe- 
ter, John and James were the men who had beard Chrift 
Rimfelf ; their doGtrifie was not like Paul’s ; they held 
circumcifion, and kept the law of Mofes, At the fame 
time thofe very people were ambitious to be confidered 
as apoftles-of Jefus Chriit, and by this means caufed no 
fmall confufion in the churches of Chrift which Paul, 
by the grace of God, had planted. “They adtually fuc- 
ceeded fo far, that fundry churches, to their own detri- 
ment, forfook Paul. Such perfons Paul rebuked very 
fharply in his epiftles, calling them falfe apoftles, dogs, 
evil workers, the concifion, Phil. tii. 2, and faiths: 
«© } would they were even cut off which trouble you,” 
Gal. v.12. Perhaps this was a flethly zeal? Noy, faith 
he, on a fimitar occafion, “ but I am jealous over you 
with a godly jealoufy,” 2 Cor. xi. 2. Thefe circum- 
ftances indeed obliged him to {peak much of himfelf, 
and to magnify his office. He was an apoftle not of 
man, neither by man, but by fefus Chrift, and God 
the Father, Gal. i. 1. Nor had he received that gof- 
pel, which he preached, of man ; but by the revelation 
$f our Lord Jefus Chrift, That he was not lefs than 
the great apoftles; nay, he laboured more abundantly 
than they all ; and. had endured more ftripes for Chrift*s 
fake, than all of them, ‘Phat his doGrine among the 
Gentiles was right and perfectly confiftent with the 
decifion of the general meeting at Jerufalem, Acts xv, 
That his churches, which he had planted -by the'gof- 

. pel, 


> 


ee oS eed ” 
ee eos POE ELE ales s ”- 


£ 30 J 

pel, were a proof of his apoftlefhip, and that the Lord 
Waswithhim. Hence it is-clear that cafes may occur; 
when a fervant of Jefus is neceflitated to oppole with 
‘zeal the adverfaries of the truth, and when it is his in- 
cumbency to {peak of himéelf, according to truth, 


§ 23. 


Pau. was very faithful in his endeavours to preferve 
the unity of fpirit in the churches, recommending to 
them efpecially: ** kndeayour to keep the unity of the 
fpirit in the bond of peace,” Eph. iv. 3. The diver- 
fities of gifts of the Spirit, which appeared in the con- 


i gregations at the firft beginnings of the church of 
t Chrift, Rom. xii. 6. 1 Cor. xii. 4, faq. occafioned 
> 4, 'qq 


i at times mifunderftandings. For one or another bea 
i gan to be lifted up with them, and thus it happened, 
} e. g. that fome brethren fpoke in the church in ftrange 
| Janguages, which none of the hearers underftood, 
Herein Paul fet them to rights, fhewing how they 
were to confider their gifts, and that miracles were 
not meant for the fake of believers, but of unbelievers, 
i That they fhould look upon themfelves as members of 
i | one body; and that if each acted according to his 
i ' © appointment, one ferving the other with that gift 
a which he had received of God in love and fimplicity, 
i then the. whole body would be benefited thereby. 
That for the reft, no member was to exalt itfelf above 
I the other; for that the one was always neceffary to 
| the’ others and the moft unworthy in appearance might 
poffibly at«thei fame time be the moft needful. It ig 
aT | ftill to-be obférved, that Panl never ceafed to pray for 
the churches, and.on the other hand recommended to’ 
the churches to: pray diligently for him, 


§ 243 


[31] 


§ 24. 


.Su0uLp.1 now proceed, farther,.and thew, from 
hiftory, -how. it went with, refpect to the converfion 
af the Gentiles, fince the times of the apoftles to the 
prefent day; this woulc indeed be to me an agree= 
able, and, I hope, ufeful labour, But my prefent 
intention is only to fay fomething of the labour of 
the evangelical brethren among the heathen in gene- 
ral. In doing which I have oceafionally referred 
partly to David Crantz’s Ancient and Modern Hiftory 
of the Brethren, and the midions of the evangelical 
brethren, and partly to his Hiflory of Greenland, and 
likewife to what Oldendorp faith in the Hiftory of the 
Miffion of the evange ‘tical Brethren in St, Thomas, 
St. Croix, and St. Jan *, 

Whether we confider what has already been done 
for many centuries relative to the converfion of the 
heathen, or whether we think of what might and 
pught yet to be done for the converfion of fo many 
thoufands of them, that have not yet any knowledge 
of our Lord Jefus Chrift, what the evangelical bre- 
thren have done among the heathen in our day, ap- 
pears but a very fmal]l matter, However, God, who 
Jooketh on men of low eftate, and defpifeth not the 
poor and needy, hath of his mercy not left the fervice 
of the brethren among the heathen without a blef. 
fing. Indeed many fenfible and godly men have re- 
ceived with complacency the abovementioned accounts, 


* This Hiftory, which was publifhed in German in the 
ear 1777, and met with a very favourable reception from 
the public, is now tranflating into Englith, 


and 


a a al ee a Se, 


EAT ET 


LaF 


and many readers have perufed them with edification 
and praifed God for them. .My view at prefent is 
only to thew the occafion af the brethren’s Jabour 
among the heathen, and what fteps they have taken 
therein; 1 will afterwards add fomething about the 
brethren’s method of preaching the gofpel among 
them. 


SECTION 


ARNE) OER NED SON I Al 
tt eat ttt tte hen teeing 


-SECTION SECOND. 


Or THE Occasion OF THE -BRETHREN’S Las IUR 
AMONG THE HEATHEN, AND OF THE STEPS 


AND MEASURES THEY TOOK THEREIN, 


§ 25. 

HE congregation of the Brethren undertook the 

fervice of the gofpel among the heathen without 
having any very extenfive views or intentions. They 
had heard of the laudable endeavours of the Reverend 
Mr. Egede to bring the natives of Greenland to the 
knowledye of Chrift; but were informed at the fame 
time that the difficulties arifing partly from that undere 
taking itfelf, and partly from a‘vcntitious circumftan- 
ces, might poflibly defeat the purpotes of the arduous 
Jabours of that worthy man. They were, about the 
fame time, made acquainted with the defire of a ne- 
groe, who having been baptized at Copenhagen, now 
ardently wifhed that his fitter, a flave in St, Phomas, 
might alfo be inftrutcd in the way of Jife. The then 
warden of the congregation at Herrnhut, who had, 
according to the grace of God given him already in 
his\ younger. days, made a firm refelution to promote 
the miffions among the heatken to the extent of hig 
abilities, did not fail to recommend the abovemena 
tioned objects in the ftrongeft terms. 

E ey 


u & POR. 


C 34] 


Upon this God moved the hearts of two brethren 
to agree together before the Lord, that they would 
undertake a voyage to St. Thomas in order to acquaint 
the faid flave how fhe might be faved through faith in 
Chrit Jefus: the Lord likewife made two other bre- 
thren willing to go to Greenland. Thefe brethren 
having, after mature deliberation and hearty prayers 
to God, obtained fufficient clearnefs in this matter, 
mentioned their defign and purpofe, by letters, to the 
congregation. However a whole year elapfed. ere the 
congregation came to a refolution to permit thefe bre- 
thren to go to St. Thomas aud-to Greenland. And 
thus they had fufficient time to have changed their 
minds; but they kept to their firft refolution. On 
their fetting-out, they were commended to the Lord, 
and to the word of his grace, with the affurance isa 
their brethren would thank God, if they fhould, by 


1] 


their walk and converfation, bring only one or anos 
, 


ther of their fellow-creatures to Chrift *, 


§ 26. 


Soown after this, another opportunity offered to get 
among aig heathen in the Wcit-Indies. The Lord- 


Chamberlain de Plefs of Copenhagen wifhed to work 
| 


fome new fugur plantations in St. Croix by negroe 
flaves ; and to this end he applied to the congregation 
at Herrnhut to fend fome brethren ‘that might have 
the infpection over them, He thought thereby to 
do fome good, and by means of the brethren to lead his 
poor flaves to the way of life. A confiderable number 
of brethren foon offered themfelyes, who, as this pro 


* See David Crartz’s Hiftory of Greenland, vol. i. p. 38; 
fqq. and Spee s Hifttory of the. Miffions in St. Whomas, 
&c, vol. ii, be 1, § 4, 


pofal 


{ 35] 


pofal appeared very fair, were intlined to go td St, 
Croix, and take upon them the infpeQion of thofe 
flaves. But it was found in the fequel, that the cir- 
cumftances conneéed with fuch infpe@ion did not 
well fuit with the fervice of the gofpel, for which reas 
fon: the brethren foon entirely relinquifhed that: mode 
of proceeding +. In. the mean time other brethren. 
came to St. Thomas, with the view of taking the bef 
care they could of thofe negroes who had been fpoken 
with in love by the firft brethren who had been there t; 
and they arrived very feafonably. For God, remem= 
bering the prayers and tears of the former brethren for 
the falvation of the poor negroes ||, had, by his good 
Spirit, ftirred up in many negroes a defire after the 
gofpel of Chrift, Great numbers of thefe came in the 
evenings, after their labour was done, to the brethren, 
and received the inftructions they. gave them with 
thankful hearts. The gofpel approved itfelf to them 
as the power of God, and many were turned from 
darknefs unto light, and from the power of fatan unto 
God ; by which the brethren were fo much encouraged 
as:to fpend day and night in preaching Chrift, not 


% 


only to adults,: but alfo to children *. 


§ 27. 


THE congregation of the brethren; being made ac- 
quainted with this divine bleffing which attended 
the preaching in St. Thomas, thought themfelves 
obliged to obtain for their brethren, whom our Loid 
Jetus Chrift owned fo gracioufly, an ordination that 


+ See Oldendorp’s Hiftory of the Miffion, vol. ii. b, 1. 
+ 5 and 7. t Ibid. vol, ii. b 2. § 1. \| Ibid. 
vol, ii. b. 4.98 & * Thid. vol. it. b. 2..§ 4, 

_ 


E 2 might 


[J 


might be valid alfo in the fight of mem. They ac= 
quainted Door Jablonfky, bifhop of the Bohemian 
and Moravian brethren, who was then firft chaplain 
to the king of Pruffia, with the aforefaid circumftan= 
ces; and he, having previoufly confulted with, and 
obtained the full confent of his colleague, the Reve- 
send Sitkevius, of Polith Juiffa, confecrated the Mo- 
ravian brother David Nit(chmann, whom the brethren 
had chofen, to bea bifhop of the Brethren’s church, wit! 
a view that he might confer ordination on-the fervants 
of Chrift labouring among the heathen *,. «Soon after 
this, Bifhop David: Nitichmann fent a written ordix 
nation to brother Frederic Martin in St. Thomas. 
Lhe caule of this.was, that David Nitfchman was at 
that time obliged to go on a vifitation to North=Ame- 
rica, and that Frederic Martin could not: poflibly 
leave his people, who were then burning with defire 
fox the golpel te 


§ 28. 


Uron this, now. one and then another nation of 
the heathen, was recommended to the fervice of the 
Brethren in the gofpel. This called for their atten« 

tion, and made them refolve on the one hand, never 

» to any heathen without a call, in which the hand 
God. was evident: to them; and on the other hand, 
mever to refufe any call among the heathen, in which 
they could perceive the finger of the Lord, though 
they fhould fee beforehand that fuch a call might 
endanger their lives,-and be otherwife conneéted with 


ant 


* See David Crantz’s Hiftory of the Brethren, § 63. 
p. 196. 


t See Oldendorp's Hiftory of theMiffien, vol. ii, b-2..§6. 


many 


C 37] 
many things’very difficult to human nature; and this 
is actually their intention to this very hour, 

They had at the fame time a well-grounded hope, 
that our Lord Jefus Chrift himfelf, would always find 
out and prepare fuch people, whom he might make ufe 
of in-exeti.ting his thoughts of peace toward any hea- 
thenifh country or nation. This he hath alfo done 
hitherto in great mercy among the brethren’s people, 
When any body was wanted here or there among the 
heathen, he touched now the heart of this, and then of 
that brother, by his gracious operation, and encouraged 
and made them willing for that purpofe. If any 
place could be fuitably ferved by brethren that were 
not brought.up to ftudy, but to a different way of life, 
the Lord fuffered us not to want people who were wil- 
ling to that end. But whenever circumftances re 
guired a-learned brother, God was alfo pleafed to ftir 
up fuch of this clafs, who heartily devoted themfelves 


to the fervice of our Saviour among the heathen *. 


O 


ften have [ been aftonifhed at the willingnefs and 
defire of the brethren for this fervice. Having once 
made known on a prayer-day, at Bethlehem ia North- 
America, that five perfons were departed this life in a 
very fhort time at St. Thomas, where the difficulties 
of our brethren were then very great, not lefs than 
eight brethren voluntarily offered themfelves on that 
very day, to go thither and replace them. We have 


h 


certainly caufe to thank the Lord our Redeemer alone 


fur this ; efpecially as the fervice of the gofpel among 


the heathen is no eafy matter}. We lay it down, there- 


* See David Crantz’s Hiftory of the Brethren, § 267. 
Pp 547. 

¢ See Oldendorp’s Hiftory of the Mifies in St. Thomas, 
Sc. vol. ii, bs 56 § 4. 


fore; 


[ 38] 


fore, as a maxim, never to perfuade, much lefs to urge 


any one to go as a miffionary among the heathen, 


§ 29. 


AwmMonc other heathen, whom the brethren were 
defired to attend, were the negroes in South-Carolina, 
who were employed in the cultivation of rice. A cer- 
tain Society in England thought themfelves obliged to 
fend teachers to them, in order to refcue them from 
their ignorance and foolifhnefs. But before the bre- 
thren refolved to appoint any one for this purpofe, the 
then Archbifhop of Canterbury (Potter) was afked by 
a committee of the faid Society, what was his opinion 
of this matter? His anfwer was: That he had been 
long acquainted with the Moravian Brethren ; that he 
knew the brethren of Herrnhut acknowledged the 
confeffion of Augfburg, which was not contrary to the 
thirty-nine Articles of the Church of England, With 
regard to their conftitution, he muft confefs, that the 
brethren had in that refpe& fomething preferable, and 
the Brethren’s Church was unqueftionably to be cons 
fidered as an apoftolical and epifcopal church; he was 
therefore’ of opinion that it would be well to let the 
Brethren go to preach the gofpel among the hea- 
then *. 

Thereupon two brethren actually went over to Ca- 
rol¢na, and made an attempt among the negroes there; 
but not finding any entrance with them, after fome 
time, they gave it up again +. 


. 


* See AQa Fratram Unitatis in Anglia, Report, p. 7« 
+ See Crantz’s Hiftory of the Brethren, § 73, p. 113 
§ 81,-p. 226, § 82, p. 229. 


§ 30; 


ons 


[ 39 J 


§ 30. 


Count pz Zinzenporr’s acquaintance with di- 
vers gentlemen in | jolland, and elfewhere, gave rife to 
Various other attempts of this kind. And among others 
the voyages of the brethren to Ceylon among the Cin- 
galele, to the Cape among the Hottentots, to Surinam 
and Berbice among the Arawacks, Warauen, &c. to 
Guinea among the Africans, to New-York among the 
Mahikanders,. &c. * deferve to be mentioned. It is 
not my intention here to fpeak diffufively of what they 
fuffered, and how many loft their lives in fo doings 
for after all it is mere grace when we are counted 
worthy of fuffering for the fake of Jefus, whom we 
ferve. But it may be eafily conceived that the bre- 
thren, by means of thefe attempts, got much better 
acquainted with thofe things that oppofe their labours 
among the heathen. And to fay fomething of this, is 
perfectly confiftent with the intention of this treatife, 
The brethren, in the firt place, perceived that thofe 
focieties that were eitablifhed for furthering the con= 
ver‘ion of the heathen, were a little apprehenfive left 
they, the brethren, fhould obftruct fomehow or other 
their miffions ; which thought could not be produétive 
of any good confequences. For this very reafon the 
brethren renewed their determination, to go in prefe= 
rence to fuch heathen, who as yet had never had Chrift 
Jefus preached unto them, and had no miffionaries 
among them. But fhould they be called to fach hea 
then among whom other miflionaries had laboured be- 


* See Crantz’s Hiftory of the Brethren—of Ceylon, § 80, 
r~of the Cape, § 79.—and f, of Berbice, § 80.—of Suri- 
name, § 62, & —of Guinea, § 79,—eand f, of the Mahi- 
kanders, § 91, and f, 

fore 


eee 


ee Oe ee eens 


See tere 


ee eee 


Rig Sasha 


a 


[40] 
fore them; yet it was their fixed refolution not ‘to 
preach to thofe fouls, who were already under the 
are of others, and itill lefs to draw them off and 
bring them over to themfelves, The mind of the 
brethren concerning this and fundry other points, 
of which we fhall ftill fay fomething more, is to 
be found in a piece which the evangelical brethren 
printed feparately in 1740, concerning their prefent and 
future Jabours among the Indians, flaves and other 
heathen, and which was afterwards inferted in the Bu- 


dingen Collections, vol. i. p. 182, &c. See likewife 


Crantz’s Hiftory of the Brethren, § 281, p. 576, &c. 


§ 31. 
‘Tue brethren obferved, fecondly, that the divifions 
of Chriftendom in fo many parties, made no favourable 
impreflion on the heathen. For if they hear one party 
affirm, we are the true church, and whoever would be 
faved, muft join with us, and that the fecond, third 
and fourth parties maintain the fame concerning them- 
felves; then they fay: how can we know or judge 
which party among you is in the right; do you agree 
firlt among yourfelyes. Thus it happened by the 
grace of our Lord Jefus Chrift, that the brethren firmly 
refolved, to be neither for nor againft this or the other 
party, but fimply to preach Chrift ¥*, And experience 
hath fhewn, that our Lord and Saviour gracioully 
owned and blefied this method among the heathen, 


* See Oldendorp’s Hiftory of the Miffion in St. Thomas, 
Ec. VOL, dis bea, § 1, 


LETTE TIE TF 


ELL PRS TTT TT 


§ 32. 


ANOTHER hindrance. to the »preachizg of the got. 
pel among the heathen, arofe in the European planters 
and merchants, from # féear-and concern Jéft it fhould 
hurt their commerce if the sheathem were made wifer; 
and even learned to, read and write, Nor were the 
gentlemen in the Weft-Indies without coticern, left 
their lives fhould -bé efdangered,; if the negroes; by 
dint >of. inftruétion, fhould gét more undérftanding. 
Being once in St. Thomas, one of them faid«to me: 
Only confider whether that is proper. If we calculate 
the number of negroes.in this iffandj we fhall always 
find a hundred of them to one white man. Now if 
thofe are madé wifer, how can -wé be fafe? Others had 
likewife {cruples on account of the heathen who are 
quite free in their country, thougtt under the authority 
of.this or the other chriftian king or lord} whether, on 
being made wifer, they might not withdraw from them, 
It cannot be denied but that there is reafon in fuch 
Conjectures ; this induced the brethren in their labour 
among the heathen to lay down the following invaria- 
ble principles... Namely; 

rt. In our labour among the. heathen, we will par 
ticularly éndeavour, that they become Converted to 
Chrift fefus with all their heart: This being the cafe 
they not only become wifer, but alfo better; then we 
ithall have no need to fear that the fame sill occur, 
which happens to people who take in forriething of the 
4o&fine of Jefus with the head; but whofe Hearts re- 
main. void and deftitute of: that godlinefs which is in 
Chrift Jefus,: fuch are indeed bad people. Many 
years experience has inconteftably confirmed us in 
thefe ideas; and we are firmly perfuaded, that itis not 

F our 


[42] 


our call to aim any where at national conyerfions, or 
to-introduce the chriftian religion among whole na- 
tions. 

2. We will confider it as our-duty, that our miffio- 
aries among the heathen, are not to interfere with the 
commerce between them and the merchants, which 
ought never to be difturbed by us, or any fault ‘of 
ours. Nay, we will faithfully inculcate to the hea- 
then who belong to us, that they muft in their dealings 
avoid all fraud and deceit, (which are otherwife fo pe- 
culiar to the heathen}, and that they fhall approve 
them/{elves honeft and upright in all refpects, 

3. We will never omit diligently to fet before the 
negroe flaves the doctrines which the apoftles preached 
to fervants. Servants in thofe days were almoft univer- 
faily flaves,, We will put them in mind that it is not by 
ehance, but it is of God, that one man isamafter and ano- 
ther a flave, and that therefore they ought to acquiefce 
with the ways of God; nay, that their fervite, if done 
with all faithfulnefs. for the fake of Jefus, is looked 
upon as though they were ferving our Lord Jefus Chrift, 
This we have indeed done hitherto, and, God be praif- 
ed, with good effea *, 

4- We will frequently remind the heathen of what 
Paul faith: ** Let every foul “be fubjeé to the higher 
powers ; for there is no power but of God; ‘the powers’ 
that be, are ordained of Ged. 


§ 33. 


THE cuftom of making a flave free, as foon as he ig 
baptized, which, in fome Countries, is grounded ‘on 
certain laws, has alfo proved a principal hindrance to’ 


"*® See Oldendorp’s Hittory of the Miffion, &c, vol. ii. b. 
3-§ 1.6.4. § 4&5. 


the 


ee 


{ 43] 


the preaching of the gofpel among the heathen *. For 
if a mafter, who knew this, muft think: how fhall [ 
manage, if I muft declare all my flaves free, who are 
converted to chriftianity? He could naturally not 
with that his negroes might be converted, 

This hath given the brethren eccafion ‘te confides 
this matter according to the fcriptures, and the exam- 
ple of the apoftles. In the apoftolic congregations 
fome brethren were matters, and others were flaves; 
which is evident from the exhortations, which on the 
one hand were given to mafters, and on the-ether hand 
to flaves. But we find no where that the apoftles ‘com- 
manded the mafters.to emancipate their flaves. Nay, 
when Onefimus was run away from his mafter, and 
afterwards, through the fervice of Paul, became con- 
verted to Chrift; Paul fent him again to his: mafter 
Philemon,’ and cordially interceeded for him. This 
is likewife the mind of the brethren with regard to the 
flaves; for we fhould not deem ourfelves juftifiable to 
a&t otherwife herein, than the apoftles of the Lord 


did. 
§ 34- 


Tb principal hindrance to the propagation of ‘the 
gofpel lies in the heathen themfelves.. The brethren 
have to'deal with two forts of heathen. The one fort 
are ufually called favages, and thefe live in boundlefs 
liberty... To the other fort we reckon the'negroes, thefe 
are under fo hard a yoke, and fuch bitter thraldom, 
that one can fearcely think of them without compaf- 


* | mean not to deny here that there are alfo other caufes, 
which were impediments to the converfion of the negroes of 
both fexes, which are by.no means commendable, 


F 2 fion, 


ars 


iii? 
na 


) 
1 
} 
! 
4 
iF 
“| 

} 


1, 


Fila tas ig > 


SE 


[ 447 

fion. “Different as thefe two forts of heathen -are; 
with regard to their education, way of life, manner of 
thinking, cuftoms, and other circumftances, yetthey are 
perfectly alike in being to the higheft degree corrupted, 
And what is faid in holy writ concerning: the heathen 
(§ 3.):as equally applicable to. both of the 2foremén- 
tioned forts’ of heathen. To the depravity in body and 
foul, which:they ‘have in common with all men, muh 
beadded the moftabominable crimes propagated amongtt 
them,» To thefe we may reckon their hérrible idolas 
tries; forceries, poifonipys, and inhuman cruelties, 

Nowvithftanding all. ¢his, one likewife finds among 
them divers things, which in-them/elves are. not to be 
rejected. » Certain abominable thines; which occur 
amony {uch as are called chriftians, (though they are 
far from deferying this fname} dre not: tobe found even 
among the heathen, >In: theif common: talk they are 
frequently fo. fenfibley that you Cannot: obje& -ta | it, 
Many. af theigoaétions are of fuch a nature, as'to bein 
theatfelves” unblameables+fo that many ‘who profefs the 
doGrine of Chrift without acting conformably to! it, 
muft be put to thame by them. Neither js this to be 
wondered at, For if Godshath given over the heathen, 
who Knew there was aGod who had madeall things, but 
neither-honoured-nor ferved hint, to fuch grofs errors 
and to.fuch abominabte erimes, by way of, punifhment, 
#8 appears: from: §-geo what, can -thofé meh -Otherwile 
expect, who know, from the bible that.God Hath given 
upto death. for -themw-his only begotten:San}” and that 
Chrift,. who, was made fan offering for:them upon the 
crolsy. in order.to redeem them from. the} mifery of -finy 
and from the power of fatan, can and will make them 
everlaRingl y happy} ‘and Who yet: reje& this grate, be~ 
caufe they love'darknéfs rather than light?’ Thay furely 
wil! be more feverety puniflyed with érrors, foolith- 
ee ‘g 2 nefles 


PPO ONT 


™ 


Soe ae eee 


ed eee 


ners 


{45} 


neffes and fins, than the heathen’ fot they Cont?ad tat 


more guilt thanthe heathens 


§ 35 
Bur what advice can begiven the brethren, wha 
8° among the heathen, under fuch circumftances ? 
he firtt thing is, that they fhoald not ‘be fo! térrified 
by the inhuman wickednefs prevailing among: the:hea+ 


then, as to’ pive up. their -hopessin labouring among 
them. For Ghrift hath t; 


tafted:death for ally and=he is 
the: propitiatiad :for-our fins, :andonot for ours only, but 
alfo for the fins of the whole worlds). He hath hed his 
blood: for the heathen alfo ;: theyt are bought: with a 
price. God fpake by the prophets already in the Old 
‘Leftament, giving the imoft precious promifes tothe 
heathen, that they fhould be joint heirs of his kings 
dom, (§ 6.) Our Lord Jefus declared ‘to the Jews, 
not only by parables, but by.exprefs words,. thats the 
kingdom of God fhould be taken from them, and given 
unto the Gentiles, ($8) 


Hecfent forth bis difciples to 
preach:the-gofpeb-ta all 


the heathen, aind-to,declare-to 
them that, through faith, they fhould: obtaim forgives 
nefs of fins-and eternai:life, ($9-) The apottles did 
this, and efpecialiy Paul, (§ 10.) and thus the moft 
giorious..churches. were formed. from amone the hea- 
then, who received the gofpel by. faith, ase g-at.Rome, 
Corinth, Ephelus, Philippi, &c. . We ourfelves have 
frequently feen, ia our days, according to.the grace of 
God that was with us, fo 


me of the moft impious heae 
then, 


that were really an. abomination, become »dear 
children of God. For. the goipel is the power of God 
unto. falvation to.all them, that believes. A-witnefs of 
the truth, therefore, and of-the gofpel, who hath been 
galled by Jefus Chrift to labour among the heathen, 


Can, 


See pepe necepemgeee = 
= zs — 


A 


Fe te Te pe 


ages = 


oe Se a 


[ 46] 


an, and fhould indeed, begin his work with pleafures 
he furely will not labour in vain. For God will have 
all men to be faved, and to come unto the knowledge 
of the truth. 


§ 36. 


Oxn-the other hand, the brethren fhould take care 
notito-be deceived, by appearances, as though the heas 
then were alreddy good fort of peoples, What though 
a heathen may not dothis or the other evil, and doth 
yet commit a bundred. other things that are equally 
bad!) can-it be faidithat fuch an one is on the way of 
hife? Our Saviour faith :; A good=tree cannot bring 
pth evil fruit.” Ox ifsan heathen fpeaks a fentible werd 
nowoand then, or does. this or that»which in: itfelf- is 
not bad, but laudable and good; yet in all. othenthings, 
whidh-man, ought to,do,according! to the will of God, 
hesabfolutely. falls fhort; can it therefore be faid, that 
that man is:on the right way? If a mah be of a fan+ 
guine difpofition, and compafiionate towards them that 
are-indiftrefs, it is fo fargood. But if the fame per- 
fon! {pends his-life, apenly or privately, in rioting and 
drunkennefs; in fornication and uncleannefs, and in 
Uther cafes lies and cheats; can he be called a Virtuous 
man ? Itmuft moreover be confidered from what mo- 
tive fuch things aredone; for whatever doth not {pring 
from the love of God and the love of one’s neighbour, 
thowgh-it be ufeful- toothers and’not wrong in ictfelf, 
yet ie doth not prove much in favour of him that doeth 
jé [owitP urate this by an inflance, The northern 
Fridiaté bre very hofpitable ; and if fome one happens 
to come Ynto their hut, they’will fhare the Jatt morfel 
with hit. °’Phis in itfelf is very well. But whence 


comes it ? The Indians are very revengeful, and retain 
their 


raw 


FEXERRED 


ss al 


{ 47] 
their wrath a long while, nay they will propagate it to 
their children’s children, Now if an Indian’ be hun- 
gry, and another fhould refafe to give him to’ eat of 
what he hath, that man will bear him mali¢e; and 
if he, after ten years or more, can defiroy him by poi- 
fon, or in any other manner, he will be fure to do it. 
The Indians are afraid of this, and this fear compels 
them to be hofpitable. They will likewife take care 
not to wrong others; being apprehenfive of the ven= 
geance of others, which they know they cannot: efcape. 
Of this a fingular inftance came to my knowledge. 
An Indian widow, who had a little boy, ‘married a fe= 
cond hufband, who ufed her ill, nor did by her what 
he ought to have done. . Now the fon, being grown 
up, faid to his father-in law, Why didft thou ufe my 
mother fo ill? and killed him-on the fpot. This*there- 
fore is the reafon, why parents det their children. have 
their owa will in all'things; becaufe they are afraid, 
Feft the children, when growa up, would take revenge 
on them, 


§ 37. 


Tuus thofe heathen, who in fome. refpe&s are 
become moral, muft by the gofpel’ be broughtto Je- 
fus Chrift; even as well as thofe'who are totally de- 
ftitute of any morality. He alone can fave both the 
éne and the other from their fins, and deliver them 
from the power of darknefs. But our brethren have 
alfo, in the third place, this to obferve among the’ hea- 
then, viz. toexamine with all faithfulnefsand patience, 
whether the Holy Spirit has begun his Work in one or 
the other. For when a foul is prepared’ by his. grace, and 
obtains fome clearnefs of his divine truth, then one niay 


{peak freely to fuch an-one, and one finds open ears: 
For 


Ses nae es oe es 
Ske = i Be 


ORE ath OPP 


SS ESL See 


PE 


[ 48 J 


For the converfion. of the-heathen is the workof God? 


‘He delivers them. from the power of darknefs, and 


tranflates them into, the kingdom of his dear Son, 
Wherever, the brethren find an entrance with the gof- 
pel among the heathen, there they.are by God’s grace 
already prepared to. receive it. Hence we have inflances 
that heathen have prayed to God to fend them one that 
might fhew them the way of life; and when a brother 


came and preached the gofpel to them, they confidered 
it as a proof that their prayers were heard, and became 


obedient to it with joy. See David Crantz’s Hiltory 
of the Brethren, § 259. p. 5345 


§ 38. 


SATAN, being ever employed to hinder all that is 
good, wherever he can, it may be eafily imagined that 
he would not be idle in endeavouring to ftem the courfe 
of the gofpel among the heathen. For he is the. fpirit 
that now worketh in the children of difobedience, that 
is, in men who live not in the faith of the Son of God, 
Eph. ii, 2. and the heathen are under his power and 
dominion, Acts xxvi. 18. Hénce he is called the God 
of this world, who hath blinded the eyes of them which 
believe not, left the light of the glorious gofpel of 
Chrift fhould fhine unto them, 2 Cor. iv. 4. 

Moft,of the heathen, with whom we are become ac~ 
quainted, have a knowledge of fatan, and take him to 
be the author of evil. When they are in perplexity, 
and are,afraid, of him, they have recourfe to prayers, 
and even make offerings to him, that he may not hurt 
them. The worft is, that the words of our Saviour, 
which-he {pake to the Jews, are equally applicable to 
the heathen, ‘‘ Ye are of your father the devil, and the 
lufts, of your father ye will.do,”. Jobn viii, 44. 

Satan 


TIRE Sock 


ete 


eee hea 


GeeieAL ona uaeee 


yeas ES 


[49 ] 


Satan hath alfo his peculiar fervants among the heas 
then. Thefe generally ag like Elymas the forcerer, 
who, asa child of the devil, was full of all fubtilty and 
all mifchief; an enemy of all righteoufnefs, who ceafed 
not to pervert the right ways of the Lord, Aéts xiii. 8, 
{qq. Such labour inceflantly to oppofe the fervants 
of Chrift who preach the gofpel among the heathen. 
Of which a particular inftance is to be found in Crantz’s 
Hiftory of the Brethren, § 166, p. 383, § 283, p. 599s 
&c. 

What is tobe done in this cafe? 

1, Whoever continually obferves the words of John, 
* Little children, abide in him, the Saviour,” 1 John 
ii. 28. will walk feeurely; Believers are called in the 
{criptures doves, lambs, fheep, children: How could 
thefe, if it depended on them, itand againft fatan? But 
if we abide in Jefus, and if he be with us, no enemy 
can prevail againft us. Though he may caufe us much 
tribulation, as appears plainly from Rev. ii. 10. 

2. As fatan is to be overcome by the blood of the 
Lamb, and by the word of their teftimony, Rev, xii. 11. 
the fervants of Jefus take this for their weapons, Eph. 
vi. 10, fqq. Thus they win the field, and the God of 
peace himfelf bruifes fatan under their feet, Rom. 
xvi. 20. 

3, If they perfevere in prayer and fupplication be- 
fore God, and fimply pour out their complaints at his 
feet, then fhall they draw out of the ocean of his grace 
as much as they can with, And the enemy fhall not 
be able to keep back one foul that would fain be deli« 
vered from the yoke of fatan, and for this caufe applies, 
looks to, and calls upon the Lord. 


q) 


§ 394 


SS oy 


t 

4 

" As the brethren prefer going to thofe heathen, wko 
never before had any miffionaries among them, fee § 30. 
they confequently meet with more difficulties than ufual 
in learning their language,’ Por among thofe heathen, 
who know nothing of reading or writing, one cannes 
meet with any books or writings, which might help 
to make the learning of a language eafy, They are 
obliged therefore to fhew this and’ the’ other thing to 
the heathen, if they want to {peak with them, to obferve 
Wel] the name that they hear and write’ it down, and 
thus become acquainted with it. Reducing, in procefg 
of time, al! this into alphabetical order, it forms a lit- 
tle dictionary. And when they have properly noted 
down the words which belong to the conneétion: of 
fpeech, and which denote this or that action ; they then’ 
form, perhaps, a little grammar of that language, By 
and by they perceive, that the heathen want words to 
exprefs this or the other thing, with which they are 
éither not acquainted, or have never before thought of, 
They then furnifh them with new words, or elfe the 
heathen’ perhaps invent fome *, 

All this is a tedious affair, but not without fts nfec 
fulnefs +. As long as the brethren cannot yet fpeak, 
they teach by’ example. The heathen look at them 
while at work, and get an imprefizon of them, as of a 


».* See Crantz’s Hiftory of Greenland, vol. ii, b, 8, § 4 
pe236+ and Oldendorp’s Hiftory of the Miffion in St. Tho. 
mas, &c. &c. vol. ii. b, 5, § 1. 

+ See, e.g, what is mentioned to have occurred to the 
brethren among the Arawacks in Berbice. Crantz’s Hiftory 
of the Brethren, p. 387. § 168. 


good, 


FORTE 


oon 


[ss] 
good, and ‘outwardly ufeful people: -whereas in. genes 
ral. they have not the. beft imprefiion of the chriftians, 
which may perhaps be the fault of many people, who 
trade with:them, « 

Now the heathen, finding that the brethren feek not 
theimown, but the good of. their fouls; this removes 
an apprehenfton, which eafily arifes in them, when they 
have to do with Europeans. ‘That the brethren occa 
fionally yield them, according to chriftian love, various 
little fervices,is-fo far right... Only they muft beware 
of giving the fmalleft occafion toa furmife, as though 
they wanted to bring the heathen over to their way of 
thinking. by dint, of prefents. For that would be at- 
terided with evil confequences, The time of waiting 
ferves meair while this geod purpofe, that the brethren 
may watchin filence, (which is very neceflary) to fee 
whether there "be here’ or ‘there a perfon, whom, God 
himfelf is preparing, by his grace, to hear and receive 
a word concerning Chrift-Jefus, and of our falyation 


in him, 


§ 40. 


Tx O wowBall the difficulties I have mentioned, to- 
pether with the,expences of the voyages of the bre- 
thren, and theirneedful fuppSrt, might well have dif- 
couraged them in their undertakings among the heae 
then; yetthis: was not. the cafe. Through God’s 
grace, they rather became more confident, in hopes, 
that God our Saviour, who well knew that they had 
undertaken this work in finglenefs of heart and entirely 
for his fake, would furely aff them, Though oppofi- 
tion was, according to the ftate of the times in which 
we live, in fome refpects unavoidable: yet they trufted 
the Lord himfelf would clear up fo much the more their 

G 2 dif. 


[52] 
difinterefted intentions. They thought, if he only be 
with ‘us in mé rey, and bjefs our labours; we hall judge 
ourfelves (ufficiently rewarded for all our pains. 

I muft, however, obferve, that the brethrep did not 
in the beginning expe, that fo many heathen would 
be converted through their poor fervice. They could 
not tell, whether the time was already come, when the 
multitude of the Gentiles fhould come to Chrift, and 
feek their falvation and deliverance by him, They 
only aimed therefore at bringing fome few fouls upon 
the way of life, and, through his gracious affiftance, 
to preferve them therein *. And hearing that fo many 
were baptized at once in St. L homas, their then war- 
den, Count de Zinzendorf, was apprehenfive left the 
labour of the brethren on the fouls of the heathen 
dhould not have a fufficienc foundation. He therefore 
did every thing that lay in his power to bring it to 
pafs that only few might he gathered, but. that thofe 
few might be particularly well attended to. But in 
procefs of time other brethren, and efpecially bifhop Jo- 
hannes de Watte-ville, thought it was not for us to li- 
mit the grace of our Lord>Jefus Chrift, and the courfe 
of the gofpel: for, if the Saviour was with us, one 
might thoroughly and fuccefsfully labour alfo upon 
many. ‘This matter having been maturely weighed at 
a fynod in the prefence ef the Lord, the thought was 
found to be well grounded, nameiy, that, according to 
the faying of Jefus. in Matt. xiii 47, {qq. we were not 
to confine ourfelyes to a few only. From that time the 
work was carried on with more alacrity, and more and 
more were added to thofe that were gained by the gof- 
pels yet it muft be prefuppofed that all and every one 


* See Crantz’s Hiftory of the Brethren, § 103. p. 268. 
sad Oldendorp’ 8 Hiftory of the Miffion in St. ES pi oe &c. 
Vs oh, iit be 3. §'12. 


in 


“4 


7 
Be 
ay 
t 


{s3]J 


ju particular were to be carefully attended to by the 
brethren according to the beft of their ability *. 

Signs and wonders, and extraordinary gifts, are not 
to be found among the brethren; and whoever would 
ftrive to obtain thefe, may find his leflon in the words 
of Paul: ** And yet fhew I unto you a more excellent 
way—Follow after charity,” 1 Cor. xii. 31, to chap. 
xiv. 6 We thank God our Saviour, who gives our 
brethren patience to wait for the right time, when 
his blefling fhall appear. In Surinam and Berbice, 
e, g. they waited twelve years, before they faw 
any fruits of their labours, prayers and tears: but 
their hope was not in vain. The brethren in 
Nancavery, one of the Nicobar iflands, have been 
ftationed there under heavy ficknefles, great danger of 
their lives, and many hard circumftances, for a confi- 
derable time; yet they defire not to go away from 
thence; but, on the contrary, beg that we would not 
be weary in hope. May our Lord Jefus Chrift re- 
member them in mercy, and grant them yet to fee their 
joy in the heathen there, who are corrupt in the high- 
eft degree +. + 


§ 43. 


IF it be afked how the fervice and concerns of the 
miffions are cared for; I will relate in few words, 
how it ufed to be formerly, and how it is at prefent in 
this refpe&t. As long as Count de Zinzendorf was 
the Ordinary of the Brethren’s congregations, he took 
faithful care of the miffions, in conjunétion with thofe 


* See Oldendorp’s Hiftory of the Miffion in St. Thomas, 
ke. vol. ii. b. 3. § 9g. 

+ See Crantz’s Hiftory of the Brethren, § 239 and 301. 

t It is to be obferved, that this miffion of the Brethren has 
peen in this prefent year given up, 
A brethren 


= 


if 
He 
1 Big 
‘a 
ft 


{ 54) 


brethren who were his immediate affiftantss. At prefent 
the labour of the brethren among the heathen. is cars 
fied on under the adminiftration of the direétion of the 
Unity, »which confifts of 'a council chofen by all the 
members of the fynod ofthe brethren, and» confirmed 
by the Lord, of a larger or fmaller number of perfons, 
and ufually denominated the Elders Conference of the 
Unity, If any propofals are made for this or the other 
mifon among the heathen, they are taken-into.confi- 
deration by the Elders Conference of the Unity, and 
are either accepted, laid afide, .orireferredvto’a future 
period. Does any one.offer himfelf to them for the 
fervice of the. gofpel among the heathen ; they com~ 
municate thereupon -with: the Elders Conference of 
thatcongregation, of:which he is a member. | And if 
there iso particular feruple on.his account, heis then 
recommended to. the Elders. Conference -of that con« 
gzegation. to. which-he belongs, as:a candidate: forthe 
heathea(mifion, If he vis aétually to fetout.on> the 
joutney) to; the heathen,-he obtains his call-and: infiruce 
tion from the Elders Conference of the Unity,) and is 
diimifled with their bleffing. If any mifipnaries are 
diipatched by this or the other Brethren’s congrega- 
tion, it is always done by commiffion from the Unity’s 

Elcers Conference. ba steal 
The queftions and reports of the brethren. belonging 
to themiffions, are addreffed to the Elders Conference 
of the Unity, who, anfwer them from time..te. time, 
‘They. Jikewife confider of.and advife the needful ydif, 
poftion: and regulations of every miffion jointly with 
the miffionaries. Should a vifitation. be. deemed negd= 
fulin this or the other miffion, the Elders Conference 
of. the Unity nominates:a.vifitor, and then, according 
tothe circumftances, of the miffion, duly concerts and 
confers with him, They, likewife. keep up. @ hearty 
connexion 


Sie 


a 


SEES ars 


[s5] 


connexion between the brethren on miffions and the 
brethren’s congregations, from whom they went forth 
among the heathen, Foras they communicate to the 
congregations the reports that come in from the mif- 
fions, in order that they might take fhare therein; fo 
the miffionaries are likewife furnifhed with accounts 
from the congregations, And thus they may mutually 
and interchangeably make for each other, fupplications, 
prayers, interceflions and giving of thanks before God *, 


* In one of our litanies, which is prayed on Sunda 


morning in the Brethren’s congregations, we always think 


of our prefent miffions among the heathen in the following 
words : 

Thou Light and Confolation of all the Gentiles ? 

Watch over thy meffengers both by land and fea ; 

Accompany the word of their teftimony, concerning thy 
blood, with fpirit and fire ; 

Blefs our congregations gathered from among the: heas 
then ; 

Preferve them as the apple of thirie eye. 


From fatan’s vile temptations } 


And lying accu 


tions : 


Preferve then, gracious Lord, our God! 
As thou hatt vifited the Negroes, Greenlanders, Indians 
and Efquimavx, fo vific all other heathen; 
Hear us, O dear Lord and Godt 
Chor. O pt 


Cong. Praife him, all ye nations! 


ife the Lord, all ye beathen: 


Indeed every individual is alfo ufed to think of this in particu 
lar.in.his:private prayers. Onthe congregation-days, which 
are held once in four weeks, we ufually read fome accounts 
and reports of the miffions, and this reminds our brethren 
and fifters at the fame time, how neceffary it is to make in- 
terceffion for them. But this is done in a particular man* 
fer on Epiphany, or the Heathen-Feftivat, ss 
oi3 Af 


aw 


f $64 


If the miffions require a fupply of brethren afd fiftersy 
‘ora change be deemed neceffary among the brethren and 
fifters there; this is, as well as the other, cared for by 
“the Elders Conference of the Brethren’s Unity. Should 
circumftances require that the magiftrates, under whom 
the miffions are placed, are to be applied to; the El- 
ders Conference of the Unity ferves them herein ac 
cording to their ability. For the reft they are careful 
that all may be conducted honeftly among the mifhons, 
not only before God, but alfo before men, and are a}- 
ways ready to advife and affift wherever they cam, 


§ 42. 


Bur how are the expences defrayed, which are un- 
avoidable with the miffions? Till the year 1741, the 
late Count Zinzendorf and his confort bad to care 

‘for all. And whoever fhould give them the teftimony 
that they acted herein not only according to their abi- 
lity, but beyond it, fuch an one will be found to fpeak 
the truth before God and man. A  fociety of fundry 
friends and brethren in Amfterdam, undertook many 
requifite expences of the miffions ; but after a few years 
a mifunderftanding happened, and then it ceafed en- 
tirely, In 1741, at a fynod held in London, a deacon 
was nominated, to whom much was committed; and 
amongft other things, he had to ferve and care for the 
miffons. In the fame year a fociety of brethren for 
the furtherance of the gofpel among the heathen was 
fettled in London. But the deacon and his affiftants, 
finding the incumbency of the heathen miffions too 
extenfive, and the London fociety of brethren (per- 
haps without their own fault) having become totally 
jna@ive, it was neceflary to think of other means. 
Thus, for the fupport of the miffions, feparate diaconies 

were 


| 
& 


OE SLO E SPE TE 


SPST REP eyes — 


— 


\ ee 


Se 


Were appointed in the Unity, which have continued f 
this day. 

And now I proceed to relate how this is at prefent. 
In the fynod at Barby in 1775, four brethren were 
chofen by the colle&tive members of the fynod, and 
confirmed by the Lord; thefe, under the name of 
the Deputation of the Diacony of the Heathen Mif- 
fions, have the commiffion (fubject however to the in« 
{peCtion of the Unity’s Elders Conft rence) to care for 
the miffions. Thefe bretbren are of courfe in con- 
{tant, cordial and brotherly communication with the 
Elders Conference of the Unity; nor do the latter 
ever undertake any thing in matters relative to the 
heathen miflions without the concurrence of the for- 
mer *, All the brethren’s congregations take fhare in 
the mifhons, and the members of théin give, twice in 
the year, what every one thinks proper, with fuch 
heartinefs, that we have great reafon to thank the 
Lord for it. Brethren and friends, wo do not refide 


in the Brethren’s concrevations. take pléeafure alfo, of 


ta we 


their own free will 


to contribute fomething to the 
fupport of the miffions. ° The whole of this the De- 
plitation of the Diacony of the Heathen Mi{ 


Ins re= 
ceives and difburfes it for the neccilaries of thofe bres 
thren and fitters that are either going to, or live already 
among the heathen. The neceflary and expenfive cor- 
refpondence with the mifGions is’ likewife defrayed 
from this colleétion, We are alfo fre quently obliged 
w help the brethren not only to a habitation for them- 


felves, but alfo to churches and meeting-houfes, Add 


® Phe. Brethren’s Society in London for the furtherance 
of the gofpel among the heathen, hed alrready been renewed 
againin 1768. Sec Appendix la, A. and Crantz’s Hittory 
of the Brethren, § 280, p 5732 &c, 


H te 


Za 


i 
I 
H 
i 


[58] 
to thefe, the caring for the widows,. as alfo for tle 
children, whofe parents are among the heathen, in the- 


. Unity’s ceconomies. 


pafs over the misfortunes, e. g. when the churches, 
as well as the dwelling-houfes of the brethren, are 
deflroyed by hurricanes, or when (as in 'time-of war) 
all things become confiderably dearer than ufual *. 


§ 43 


Doers any one afk: But is that, which the Depu- 
ta’ion of the Diacony for the heathen miffions receives: 
by kind and willing contributions, fufficient for all the 
expences? We anfwer: It would never be fufficient,, 
if every thing that is abfolut ely neceflary for the b:e- 
thren and fifters in all the miffions were to be fup- 
plied out of it. And it would be ftill Jefs fufficient 
if the brethren, who belong to the miffion, were to re- 
ecive falaries from it; But not one of them accepts 
any falary; and he knows before hand, ere he goes to 
the he: athen, that he is not to expeét any. The bree 
thren and fifters belonging to ene miffion have a com- 
mon houfekeeping, and, wherever it is practicable, 
they endeavour, as much as poffible, to earn their liye» 
lihood by the work of. their hands, or at leaft to eafe 
the expence thereof as well as they can +. Thus we 

an praife and thank God, who hath hitherto helped 
us in mercy, and we have that filial confidence in bim,, 
that he will farther help-us, 


® See Oldendonp’s Hitiory of the Miffions, &c. vol. iis 
b: 

+ See David Crantz’s Hiftory of Greenland, vols ii 
P+ 412- § ize p. gis, &e. § 16: 


Imuf, 


4 


= 


[ 39 ] 

Irmuft, however, ftill obferve, that the Mi ffion’s 
Diacony keeps a very-accurate account of all their 
receipts and difburfements. “This account is, once a 
year, laid before the College of Wardens of the Unity, 
and thefe bring it into the Elders Conference of the 
Unity» After which-an accouftt’ éf the femé is alfo 
given toall the Elders Conferences in the Brethren’s 


congregatians, that every thing may appear in a clear 


light, and Ged be every where praifed for this gracious 
affittance, 


Hs SECTION 


a SS a ee ee 


—— 


f 
{ 
| 


Or tue MetTHop or THE BRETHREN TO 
PREACH THE GOSPEL AMONG THE 
HEATHEN. 


§ 44 


HE method of the brethren to bring the heathen 
Chriit, was, in the beginning of their ate 
tempts, particularly in Greenland, nearly as follows: 

They proved to the heathen, that there is a God, 
and {poke to them of his attributes and perfections. 
In the next place, they fpoke upon the creation—how 
God had made man, after his own image, which how- 
ever was foon loft by the fall. They then made the 
heathen acquaintcd with the laws, which God gave 
by his fervant Mofes. Hence they proved to them, 
that they were finners, and had deferved temporal and 
etermal punifhment: And from this they drew the 
confequence, that there muft be one, who reconciled 
them to God, &c, : : 

Ptphis method of teaching the continued for a long 
time, but without any fuccefs; for the heathen became 
tired of fych difcourfes.* If it be afked: How hape 
pened it, t hat the brethren fell upon the faid method ? 


® See Crantz’s Hiftory of Greenland, vol.i p, 349-°§ 2 


Dp. z46, § Se 2 
P3 q mut 


ae . en 3 , 


f t 6x } 


{ muft conf. fs, that I am apprehenfive, I was myfel€ 
the caufe of it. The firft! 


3rethren who were de 


tined 
for Green]: ind, went to Copenhagen 


by way of Halle, 
They tarried a few days 
me, relative to their in- 
tentions, Upon this, J gave them a book to read, 
(for I knew no better at that time) 


where I, at that time 


With me, and converfed 


in which a certain 


divine treated, among the reft, of the method to con- 
vince, and to} ring the heathen to Chritt, The good 


man had probably never feen an heathen in all his life, 
et 


on 
much Jefs converted any: but he gk aS he 


could give durestions how. to about it. The bre- 
thren followed « m, but without fuccefs, 

Meanwhile it pleafed the Lord our Saviour, to give 
the congregation ut Herrnhut 


more infight into the 


1 


word of atonement, th rough the offering of Jefus, 


Q Nor were the br retbren wanting in Seclonite to thofe 
in Greenland, that t they muft "oxetek Jefus Chrift, i€ 
i they meant to produce any blefling among the heathen, 


Upon this, the brethren began to tranflate fome parts 
of the gofpel, efp cially what relates to the fuffcrings 
and death of Jefus, and read that to the heathen, 
This gave an oPi vortunity to {pez ak with them farther 
on that head.* Then God o; pened their hearts, thar 
they attended to the word, and it proved to them alfo 
the power of God. They became defirous of hearing 

& more abuut it, and the fire, which had been kind] ad 
in them by the Holy Ghoft, fpread farther and farther, 
And thus many were converted to God. Since which 
time, the brethren were frequently afked by the hea- 
then: why t they did not preach fooner to them of 
Jefus? that they had been quite tired of hearing the 
difcourfes about God end the two firft parents, &ec, + 


* See Crantz’s Hiflory of Greenland, vol, i, Pe385e § 2s 
{ Abid, vol. ii p 35. § a 


§ 450 


aN 


[ 62] 


§ 45. 


Axove thirty years ago, wher I lived in North 
America, I fometimes got the brethren, that were ufed 
~occafionally in the fervice of our Lord, to come toge- 
ther, in order that I might converfe with them about 
their labours. Johannes, an indian of the Mahikander 
nation, who had formerly been a very wicked man, 
but was now thoroughly converted, and was our fel- 
low labourer in the congregation gathered from among 
the heathen, at that time dwelling in Chekomekah, 
happened to be juft then on a vifit with us, and alfo 
game to our little meeting. He was a man that had 
excellent gifts, was a bold confeffor of what he knew 
to be true, and underftood the German language, fo 
as to exprefs himfelf with fufficient cledrnefs. As we 
were {peaking with one another about the heathen, he 
faid, among other things: ‘* Brethren, I have been an 
heathen, and am grown old among them, I know 
therefore very well how it is with the heathen. A 
preacher came once to us, defiring to inflru& us, and 
began by proving to us that there was a God; On 
which we faid to him: Well, and doft thou think 
we are ignorant of that? now go again whence thou 
cameft, Another preacher came another time, and 
would inftru@ us, faying: Ye muft not fteal, not 
drink too much, not lie, &c. We anfwered him: 
Fool that thou art; doft thou think that we do not 
know that? Go and learn it firft thyfelf, and teach 
the people thou belongeft to not to do thofe things, 
For who ate greater drunkards, or thieves, or liars,’ 
than thine own people? Thus we fent him away alfo, 
Some time after. this, Chfiftian Henry, one of the 


brethren, came to me into my hut, and fat down by 
me. 


me- The contents of his difcourfe to me were nearly 
thefe: I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hea« 
ven and earth, He acquaints thee, that he would 
gladly faye thee, and refcue thee from the miferable 
ftate in which thou lieft. To this end he became a 
man, hath given his life for mankind, and fhed his 
blood for them, &c. Upon this, he lay down ona 
board in my hut, and fell afleep, being fatigued with 
his journey. 1 thought within myfelf: What manner 
of man is this? [here he lies and fleeps fo fweetly. 
I might kill him immediately, and throw him out into 
the foreft ;—-who would care for it? But he is uncon- 
cerned, However I could not get rid of his words. 
They continually recurred to me; and though I went 
to fleep, yet ] dreamed of the blood which Chrift had 
fhed for us, I thought, this is very flranges; and 
went to interpret to the other indians, the words which 
Chriftian Heary fpake farther tous. Thus, through 
the grace of God, the awakening among us took plaees 


I tell you, therefore, brethren, preach to the heathen, 
Chrift, and his blood, and his death, if ye would with 
to produce a bleffing among them.” Such was the 


exhortation of Johannes, the Mahikander, to us. 


k 
¥, 
E 


§ 46. 


But the brethren were already, before that time, 
convinced that Jefus Chrift muft be the marrow and 
~#abfance of the preaching .of the gofpel among the 
heathen; even as he is in general called with juftice, 
the marrow and fubftance of the whole bible. The 
ground of this pofition is contained in §.g. and fallow~ 
ing ; where we treated of the apoftles labours among 
the Gentiles. Nor fhall-we do amifs, if we follow the 


tmacthod of the apoftles, who, in. their office, were under 
the 


eet Clee eae 


a 


— = 


eee tienen onl 


if 


: 
\ 
| 
‘ 


Sie eee 


C 64 J 
“the peculiar Ieadings of the Holy Spirit, as far as if Is 
applicable to us. Hence what. l’aul writes to the 
Corinthians, ‘‘ I determined not to know My thing 
among you, fave Jefus Chrift and him crucified,” is’ 
a firmly eftablifhed rule for us in preaching to the 
heathen. 


§ 47- 


Dors any one afk: How is this to be underflood ? 
we anfwer as follows: .We always preach the fame 
Chrift that died for us on the crofs, though we declare 
of him, that he is Lord of heaven and earth, and of 
all that isin heaven and upon tarth—that a!] things 
were made and created by him, and that without him 
was not any thing made and created, that is made and 
created—that he is before all things, and by him all 
things confift, and that he upholdeth all things by the 
word of his power—that he hath great compzffion on 
man, who was made after the image of God, and was 
very willing to fave him from his mifery—that he, 
now and then, in former times, appeared in human 
form, .and made known his willto the children of 
men—but that at laft, moved by love to man, he came 
down from heaven, upon-the, earth, and was himfclf 
made man—that he hatha Father, who dwelleth in 
heayen, and who is. well-pleafed in him, ashis only~ 
begotten Son—that this bis Father in heaven, had fent 
him into the world, out of love to man, that though 
him they might be faved—that the Holy Ghoft dwell- 
eth in him, and that he»was <n the clofeft: communion 
with him—that he, through the Holy: Spirit, hath 
taught and propounded to:men'the whole_counfel of 
God concerning our falvation—that he, in_a particu- 
lar manner, committed it.te his difciples, whom he had 

; chofea 


eieieeih ia eles all akon 
re e 


{ 659 


chofen to preach his do@trine—that* he, as the Mediae 
tor between God and man,"had“beenin this world like 
another man, and had experienced poverty, enmity from 
wicked men, danger and tribulation—that’ he wads 
tempted in all points like as We are, yet without fin, 
that he might have compaffion on the igenorant—that 
he was alfo tempted of fatan and his angels, the evil 
{pirits, but was found in the truth—that, on the con» 
trary, the angels'of God from heaven; the good {pirits, 
were at hand, .and miniftered° unto him—that he neix 
ther had fin, not committed fin, but was mot perfe@ 
in che love of God, of men, and of all creature$——that 
he gave fight to the blind, hearing to the deaf, madethe 
Jame to walk, cleanfed. the lepers, caft out devils, and 
otherwife did many miracles, whereby he proved, that 
he was feat from Ged—that he, ‘as! the Mediator, oa 
whom the iniquity of us alb-was laid, took away the 
fin of the world—that he inftituted and ordained fdr 
his difciples, before his fufferings, ‘hiscbody for meat, 
and his blood for drink, in the holy communion—that 
his foul was, for our fins, forrowful unto death, and 
that he, in that confli&, fweated bloody fweatthat 
he fuffered himfelf, not of neceffity, but of his own 
free will, out of love to us, and to reconcile us, to be 
taken captive, falfely condemned, mocked, {pit upon, 
fcourged, crowned with thorns, and hailed tothe crofs, 
on which he gave his life for us—that his fide was 
pierced with a fpear,’ and forthwith came thereout 
blood and water—that he was butied, and rofe again 
the third day—thatihe foon aftet appeared to-his dift 
ciples, and fhewed unto them his hands, his feet, and 
his fide, which: were pierced, to afcertain to them; that 
it was he himfelf—that after thefe things, he tarried 
ftill forty days'upon earth, fpeaking unto his difciples 
ef the things pertaining to.the kingdomof Godesthat 

I he 


iam 


{ 66 ] 


he commanded his difciples to go into all the world, 
and to preach the gofpel to every creature, that God 
was willing to accept them in Chrift thro’ mercy—that 
he, at the fame time, commanded them to baptize, 
in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the 
Holy Ghoft, all thofe, that fhould receive this word of 
grace in faith—alfo, that they fhould teach them to 
obferve all things,’ whatfeever he had commanded 
them, the difciples—that he, afterwards took his, dil- 
ciples together, and commanded them to tarry in the 
city of Jerufalem, until the Holy Ghoft fhould be 
poured out upon them—that then he lifted up his 
hands and bleffed them, and while he blefled them, he 
was lifted up before their eyes, and afcend:d up into 
heaven—that now he hath again the fame glory, which 
he had with his Father, before the foundation of the 
world was laid—that he is the King of kings, and 
Lord of lords, befere whom every knee thal]. bow, and 
whom all theangels of God worfhip—that foon after 
his afcenfion, he poured out the Holy Ghoit upon his 
difciples, and thereby endowed them with power to 
{pread his kingdom over all the world—that in the: 
name of Jefus, all who believe in him, obtain the 
yemiffion of fin—that to all them that receive him by 
faith, hé giveth power to become the fons of God— 
that he giveth, to all them that believe io him, the 
Holy Ghoft, who. dwelleth in their hearts—that he 
maketh all thofe that cleave unto him by faith, free 
from the flavery and dominion of fin—that, om the 
other hand, he gives them power to do good, to fol« 
Jow after him, and to keep his commandments—that 
all, whatfoever we pray for to the Father in his name, is 
infallibly heard—that if any man hath finned, he is 
our Advocate with the Father, and the propitiation 
for our fins, and not only for ours, but alfo for the fins 


j of 


Ss [ 67 ] 


of the whole world—that he will give totthem, that 
are faithful to him unto death, the crown of life—that 
he will raife the dead, in order to give untoevery one, 
according to their works, whether they be good or 
evil—that all'men fhall appear before his judgements 
feat, and hear their doom out of his mouth—that he 
will bring them that are his into eternal life, and wil] 
confign the others to everlafting fire, Now if all this; 
and whatever elle the holy feriptures fay farther of 
him, be laid before the beathem (yet every thing in 
proper time), then one, however, always preaches (as 
was before obferved) Jefus Chrift, and thimocrucified; 


§ 48. 


From what has been faid, itis therefore evident, 
that a fervant of Jefus, who determines not'to know 
any thing; fave Jefus Chrift, andvhim crucified; may 
yet deduce from him all divine truths, which God 
hath revealed for our falvation. But his blood and 
death always abide the main matter for ‘us pdor crea- 
tures, God’s love to us is difplayed in many thou- 
fand ways, but’principally in this, that he gave his only- 
begotten Son up to the death for us: and what were 
we? enemies to God. The love of Jefus Chrift, the 
Son of God, toward poor men, is likewife manifet 
from innumerable proofs, but diftinguifhingly in this, 
that he (ubmicted for them, and in their ftead, and for 
their atonement, to the moft cruel death. All the 
facrifices in tne Old Teftament, and all the thedding 
of blood, wherewith, in a view to the facrifice of Jefus, 
an atonement was made, hada plain reference to the 
blood and death of Jefus. The prophets, as well as 
the apoftles, alfo fpoke-of it in plain terms, and ‘derive 
every thing that is good and wholfome for mah,” from 

Ta the 


a 


E 6% } 

thetblood:and death of Jefus; that is, from his facrifiée 
Or Offering for use: Hencéiwe are: to thew the Lord's 
death till, he: come;. efpecially when we partake toges 
‘ther of -his body andvof his blood imthe holy commu 
pign. At the folemn -seyclation) ef our Lord Jefus 
Chrift, which was fhewn.to foba it the Spirit, it was 
fungiof, hun Gn. theewsfong xa Thou att worthy ta 
take: the book and,to: open! the feals thereof; for thou 
watt flain; and haftrredeemed-us to: God by thy blood, 
&¢.?« Butino one incheaveny nor on esrth, neicher 
under thevearthy was able to take the book out! of the 
hand ‘of .God, to ope the back and to:loafe the feal 
thereof, but the man Chrift Jefus, the Lamb of God; 
becaufe he was flain for Sear. amen, and hath redeemed 
them to God by his blood, Rev. v. 5 

dbus we ought slikewife: toothink ; and hence the 
bleed and death of: Jefus mutt remain’ our diamond if 
tac golseni sing of ‘the cgofpel *, A$ to dhe refty the 

' ivib inind 


* 
: : 


iw 2a on 

- : = { - . 
ieee SS 4 9 

* For from, oie he sereate eit ble fing among the heathen 

iW times. Arh 60, :0f which, we hayerfeen and known 

psa See. Olsens lorp’s Hiii< bay gf the Mifficns, 


a} on 33 > 83», 4,40¢ g.adeny Crantz’s 


tory ists Grethiand, ’ de i? is Fhoft "ad ectientty ifittteaees this 
meattell A Te twatad ‘ener, "yor a? pe 42 a6. § 27 
te After dix -yeats unfucee RTH fabdu ir, they’ (thé brethren) 
fousidy! thar the plain ‘tefitnony concérning thé death and 
poiionsobjefus, togetherawith iw canfe and! happy confes 
qneritesy delizereds by: q heéart touched: with 2 warm and 
experimental fenfe of 2t,: is the bet preparation, ‘and. the 
fyrefway of enlighming the dark and benighted minds of 

the 


te 


pe 


a 


[; 69: } 

‘mid of the Brethren is, and and will always remaing 
never to conceal from the heathen any part of the coun- 
fel of God concerning their falvation, and to publith 
the.whole gofpel to them aceording.to the mind of fe- 
fus, But when we fpeak of the gofpel, we take the 
word, according to the frequent ufe of it in holy writy 
in an.extenfive fenfe, meaning thereby the whole dec- 
trine of Jefus and his apoftles, 


the wild heathen, in order to lead them afterwards ftep by 
ftep into all truth. © And'I have been filled’with'the greateft 
amazement to behold the powerful effects of the word of thé 
crofs on the moft’ ignorant and favae heathens, ‘who; ‘ac! 
cording to’ their firft appearanéeé, feemed utterly: incapabls 
of comprehending this great myflery of godlinef, 

“They have been confirmed in this method of teaching, 
not only by their own experience of many years, but-alfo 
by the example and atteftations of their fellow labourers 
among other heathen: nations, - This method “has further 
been found to’be the beft by ‘other fervants of God, who 
have laboured in the Eaft and Weft Indies, among heatheng 
of a more refined, in theif way more learned, but alfo more 
corrupted turn of mind. To prove this, ‘1 Will only quote 
a paffige out of Jobx Luke Niecamp’s foort Account of the Bafts 
India Miffion, to which Profeffor Franke wrote preface’? 
thé words are thefe: “¢ The miffionaries have frequently res 
“marked, that nothing makes fuch a powerful imprefMiony 
“on the minds of, the heather, “or makes-thém fo Wefiroug 
“of receiving further information concerning the finfalnefy 
** of human nature, and the vanity of their idols, °as ‘wher 
‘** one, immediately at the FIRST SPEAKING WITH ruem; 
“ declares t their hearts, the gracious meflage concerning 
“« the free mercy of God in Chritt Jefus towards the let 
** human race. On the contrary, out-catechifts, before they 
“ were rightly acquainted with the carer MATTER, which 


<< 


a mi-= 


{70 J 


§ 49. 


TP preaching of the Brethren among the heathen, 
if they proceed according’ to holy writ, ‘confitts of the 
following points: 

«<. God Joves you, ‘and hath hitherto fhewn much 
mercy to you, He hath given you'life‘and being, and 
it is he likewife, who hath till now preferved your 
life... 

But 


% a minifter.of the New Teftament has to declare, have 
«made manifold experiments, Hoa, little is to be ff Ged 
* among ft these heathens, by all moral reprefentatiens of the 
* glorious attributes of Gad, and of the various. ducies of virtues 
even fuppofing they outwardly affent to all fuch truths, 
fil, whilf their ftubborn will is not, gained over, they 
only feck,the more, by various pretences, to invalidate 
the fame.” Likewife page 465... “¢ We obferved that 
the greatelt devotiou and awakening.was excited among 
them, by propounding to them the: gafpel.topics, and 
difplaying before them the fuiferings of Chrift, &.”” 
"The faine has alfo been coniirmed by the late David Brai- 
nard, moifionary from. a Prefpyterian, fociety.in Scotland 
among: the Indians in the province of: Jerfey and Pennfyl, 
tania. [See Remarkable, Heathen Converfons, in Prefinius’s 
‘Paftoral Calleion:, 34 and 4th: parts<] . We are well informed 
goucerning that pious, and, till his (alas. too carly) death, 
indefatigzble man, and it is alfo obfervable throughout the 
whole of his account, that.as.long as he continued the: ufual 
method-of preaching, and endeavouring to,convince the In, 
dians :by eonneéted arguments,. he .could. effect nothing 
among them ; but fo .foon-as he took pattern. by his.neigh~ 
bours,’ whofe- good fuccefs; among the heathen hewas.an 
eve-wienefs of ; and ventured ftraightway.to preach.to them: 


fimply the Saviour and, his love, even ;till. the death an the 


crofs, 


C71 J 

But he hath difplayed his love particularly in this, 
that he hath fenc his only begotten Son, by whom he 
tmade.all things, into the world, that through him ye 
might have everlafling life... This his Son was made 
man out of love to you, and hath given his life and 
fhed his blood for you, for the remiffion of fins. Ye 
have to be fure hitherto behaved greatly amifs, and 
done thofe :hings that are contrary to his will, and have 
left undone thufz things which are pleafing in his 
fight. Ye have fuffered yourfelves to be ruled by the 
wicked fpirit: but he is an enemy both to God and to 


crofs, fuch a large and quick awakening enfued, that both 
he and all the minifters of his perfuafion who faw it, Were 
aitonifhed, and forced to aferibe glory to God. Was I to 
quote all his beautiful paffages of this kind, I could fill whole 
fheets of paper, The following may fuffice. ‘* Aug: 3, 
**« 1745, I preached on Rev. xxit. 17. Whofoever will, let hie 
take of the water of life freely. Although I could not treat 
on that fubject in the method otherwife ufual, yet the 
*¢ Lord gave me boldnefs and freedom, to fet before my 
‘* hearers, in a fomewhat peculiar manner, our dear Rez 


*« deemer as a moft benign and compaifionate Saviour; 


‘© fo that a real awakening was plainly to be perceived.” 

In the general remarks on this evork of grace it is faid fur; 
ther, page 300. ‘* But this great awakening, and futprifing 
** folicitude of the fouls, was never occafioned by any ter- 
** rifying fermons,; but, what is exeeeding remarkable, 
‘6 snhoviemne in my difcourfes I ftrongly dwelt on that moy- 
** ing fcene of a Saviour dying on the crofs, and his meck 
s¢ behaviour under the whole, as aifo on the exceeding great 
© riches of the gofpel-falvation, and how kindly and out of 
«« mere unmerited grace, the divine, mercy offers the fame 
«* unto all needy, forrowful and diitrefled fouls ; there ap- 
‘* peared, immediately amongft the hearers, an extraordi+ 
« nary ftirring and awakening, &c.” 


man, 


ee = 


| 
| 
i 


ee ce et ee 


penetra ss — 


SSS 


— Ss RR NPRRNR ES TA ET 
eee Se 


a 


/ 
[32°] 


man, and whoever doeth his will, plunges himfelf into 
everlafting perdition. Yet God will forgive you all 
your’ fins, and will accept you as children; he will 
deliver you from the power of fatan; will fo difpofe your 
hearts, that ye will get a hatred to evil things and flee 
them; and will, on the contrary, love that which is 
good, and follow after it, to do it. Nay, he will make 
you heirs of eternal life, and as fuch, receive you to 
himfelf in heaven, where he dwelleth. We come in 
his name, and by his command, to declare his grace 
unto you. Ye may. ftedfaftly believe, that it is his 
earneft defire to deliver you from your mifery, and to 
fave you. Elfe he had not Jaid down his life, nor thed 
his blood for you. But then ye muft be willing to 
@efift from your wickednefs, and to accept of Jefus 
Chrift as your Lord and Redeemer. If ye believe his 
word, which he caufeth now to be teftified unto you, and 
accept of Jefus Cirift as your Lord and Saviour, ye 
fhal] have peace and joy without end. But fhould ye 
defpife and reje&t the words which we tell you in his 
name, ye will remain fervants of the wicked fpirit, and 
will be condemned with him. For God hath appointed 
a day in the which he will judge, when the dead thall 


be raifed, and every one fhall receive his delerved 


reward ” 

If one preacheth thus to the heathen, it is confiftent 
with the words which we read in the prophet Ifaiah’: 
*¢ Ho, every one that thirfteth, come ye to the waters, 
and he that hath no money; come ye, buy and eat, yea 
come, buy wine and milk without money, and without 
price,” Ifa. lv. 1. Again: ** How beautiful upon the 
mountains are the feet of him that brinzeth good ti- 
dings, that publifheth peace, that bringeth good tidings 
of good, that publifheth falvation, that faith unto Zion, 
Thy God reigneth,” Ifa, ii. 7, Then is it according 

to 


F 73°3 
to the commandment of Chrift, ,who fent forth his 
fervants into the highways and hedges, where the 
pooreft people are ufed to be,—the poor, the niaimed, 
the halt, and the blind,—to invite them—to what? to 
the fupper; ;Luke xiv. 16, &c. As Gd hath fent 
Chrift.to preach good tidings to the meck, to bind up 
the broken hearted, to preach deliverance to the cap~ 
tives, and the opening of the prifon to them that are 
bound: to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord; 
&c. Ifas Ixi. 15.2, &c. even fo Chiift fendeth his fera 
vants to do the fame. Thus the gofp-I of the grace 
of God is teftified, Aéts xx. 24, and is a declaration 
of the forgivenefs of fins, A@s xiii 28. and thus alfo 
the Gentiles may be glad, that the gofpel is preached 
unto them alfo, Adts xiii, 48. 


§ 50... 

THe brethren’s manner-of preaching Was very 
fimple aud-artlefs ; I believed, therefore have I {poken, 
was ina peculiar manner applicable tothem. Indeed 
they would have acted in a foolifh manner, if they had 
attempted to make ufe of any art. For unlefs they had 
exprefled every thing ina fhort and round manner, 
their {peaking had been in vain; nor could the heathen, 
with whom they had to do,- have underftood them. It 
is alfo plainly apparent, from the bleffing which the 
Lord-God laid upon their Jabcurs, that human excela 
lency of fpeech and of wifdom, is abfulurely needlefs$ 
Paul even declares it to be very hurtful, fee § 13. 


ese 


W & now proceed to treat of the baptifm of the 
heathen, which ought not to be confidered orherways, 
Kk than 


Zam 


RIN SA TS FARR TTS TT 


{ 74 J 


than as a folemn and public acceptance of a poor fin- 
ner, at which on the part of God, nothing is expected 
from him, than that he fhould know and acknowledge 
himfelf to be a loft creature by reafon of his fins, be- 
lieving, at the fame time, that Jefus Chrift is able, and 
willing to fefcue and fave him from his mifery and 
wretchednefs, and that he hath moreover purpofed'to 
leave and forfake his fins, and to live unto him,: who 
accepts him in mercy. In whomfoever ‘the apoftles 
found this, they confidently baptized fuch. That an 
ignorant heathen be firft taught to read, and after- 
wards inftructed in al! the points ofchriftian do@rine, 
and one brings it perhaps fo far, that he makes a pub- 
Jic confefion in Words, which he was obliged to im- 
prefs on his memory, is cuftom that ‘gradually arofe 
in the church. For the heathen, who lived among 
the Greeks and Romans, where the moft abominable 
idolatries, forceries, and fpectacles”~ were in vogue, 
fed to be afked firft: (DoW thou renounce the devil, 
knd all his works and ways? Afterwards futh ahd tach 
points were put in oppofition to the'errors, that rofe 
jn the church from time to time; thofe “points the 
heathen were obliged publicly to confefs, prior to their 
being, baptized Hence the origin of the fo called 
Apottolic creed, or confefhon of faith ; which is the 
general opinion of the learned in ovr days, at'leaft 
among the Proteftants, At length it came to that pafs, 
that the heathen were firit inftruéted in the doétrinc, 
before they could be baptized. But as it’ happened 
that the ‘poor ‘creatures commonly took the doctrine 
only into their heads, the heart experiencing little or 
nothing at all of it; it was therefore but too often the 
caie, that they. became worfe after their baptifm, than 
they had been before, : 


§ 52. 


. 
) 


§ 52. 


W & could not recommend the aforefaid method to 
our brethren, who went as miflionaries among the hea- 
then, with refpeét to fuch an inftruction of the hea- 
then, previous to their baptifm. Nor could they pof= 
fibly have made ufe of it among thofe heathen, with 
whom they had an intercourfe.* Whoever confiders the 
circumftances of the negroes, and their hard flavery, 
will eafily comprehend what I fay. There was, e, g, 
on the ifland of St. Thomas, a very agednegro woman, 
who attended the meetings affiduoufly, and heard the 
gofpel of Chrift with eagernefs, exhorting her people 
alfo to thank God, who caufed his word to be fpoken 
to them by the brethren, and to this end had brought 


them over the great water. But when I came to {peak . 


with her in private, fhe anfwered: O Lord! I can 
neyer be baptized! How fhould I now learn to read, 
and get fo much by rote? I convinced her, that all 
that was not neceffary, and told her of the love of Jefus 
to her. She was afterwards baptized, and obtained fo 
much underftanding in the gofpel, as to become ufeful 
among the other negro women. + 

But what we in particular recommended to the bre- 
thren going as miffionaries among the heathen, was this; 
that they might not be fatisfied with bearing a public 
teitimony of Jefus, but that they fhould alfo take a 
fpecial care of the fouls in private. If they fhould 
perceive a work of grace in any heathen, and obferve 
him, e. g. concerned for his falvation, complain of his 


finfulne’s, wifhing and longing for deliverance, &c. 


* See Crantz’s Hiftory of Greenland, vol. ii. p. 426. § 24. 


Pr 430 § 26. 
+ See Oldendorp’s Hiftory of the Miffions, vol, ii, b, 2. §2. 


K 2 they 


SLO TEP eo 


= 


Se SS 


= 


f 76 J 
they thould have an attentive eye upon him, and fre+ 
quently direct him to ny Chrift, advifing him, -at 
the f. fame time, to be by all means taithfully attentive 
to what fhould pafs in his heart. “Such people were 
particularly to be confidered by the miffionaries, and 
thefe were properly candidates for baptifm. It is like- 
wife true, that we have advife‘ our brethren, not to 
delay Ke bapti iy n of fuch perfons, in whom the Holy 
Ghoft evidently has his work, nor to think that t they 
mutt firft tlic fo @nd fo mach by rote, before they 
could be baptized, “We were appreh iifive leaft ‘fuch 
pil ay of baptifm might do hurt; for it was not well to 
eG the time, when God himfelf takes the clz ay 

band to form) a veffel of mercy out of it. Nor was 
the example of the apoitics alledged in vain in holy 
writ, § 16. who did not flay long before they bap- 
tized fuch perfons as enquired with all their heart, 
what muft we do to be faved? 

On the othe: hand, the mifionaries were advifed to 
be extremely careful with regard to fuch heathen, as 
merely wanted to know a good deal. For thould any 
endeavour to fill his head only with knowledge, and 
at the fame time have an empty ‘and unfeeling bit 


fuch they were by no means to baptize in that ftate, 
That they fhuu'd rather wait, till the Holy Ghof open 
his fin‘ul depravity to him, and creace in him a defire 
after deliverance from it, as well as a confidence in 
our Lord Jefus Chrift, who alone can fave a loft and 
finful man — Did they noc do this, but proceed to 
baptize an heathen for this caufe only, becaufe he 
knew much, and had got a preat dea! in his head, 
without duly attending, whe: i, or no there was a 
work of grace in his heart, they would thereby dono 
good, but much hurt, 


§ 53. 


ao ra 


§ 53. fat by 


Tue brethren having thus found entrance for the 
gofpel among the heathen, and baptized fuch of them 
as were weary of their fins, mourned on that account, 
aud were longing to obtain the grace offered unto them 
in Chrift; the efficaéy of baptifm fhewed itfelf very 
powerfully in them, . [hey rejoiced in having a gra- 
cious God, were filled with peace, kindled with love 
to Jefus Chrift, defirous for the pure milk of the gof- 
pel, became orderly in their walk, and were glad of 
being counted worthy to fuffer for Chrift’s fake, and 
truly they had to fuffer much. A fire and zeal alfo 
entered into them, to declare to others the bleflings 
which. we find in Chrift. 

Upon this fome people arofe, who pretended their 
baptifm was not valid, becaufe they had learnt nothing 
by heart, &e.* 

This moved the miffionarics, not only unweariedly 
to continue the inftruétions they had hitherto imparted 
to the heathen, -but alfo to draw up fome queftions and 
anfwers, which related to the main matter, in order 
to render the heathen, that were to be baptized, well 
acquainted with it. The Dire@tion of the Unity, 
acknowledged indeed the good intention of the mifhiona~ 
ries, but advifed them, not to have fuch an examina- 
tion immediately preceding baptifm, but rather a few 
days before. For it could eafily happen, that fuch a 
folemn examination might occafion fome confufion in 
the mind of an heathen, immediately before baptifm ; 
which fhould not be, at that folemn hour, when he 
was to enter into the covenant of a good conf{cience 


* See Oldendorp’s Hiftory of the Miffions, vol.ii, b. 2. §8. 


with 


A 


tC 78) 

with God; for at that time, his whole heart fhould be 
engaged to think only of-the important matter before 
him. + 

* Inthe mean time, the miffionaries enquire of the 
helpers, (of whom more afterwards) concerning the 
walk and ‘converfation of every one, that is propofed 
for baptifm, and alfo fpeak perfonally and particularly 
with each, before he obtain holy baptifm. 

Qn fech occafions, they ‘enquire very narrowly, 
whether the perfon in queftion, be not actually bap- 
tized already. It happens fometimes, that negroes are 
found in the Weft Indies, who have either been’ bap- 
tized already ‘in Guinea, or afterwards in the Weft 
Indies; in which cafe they cannot be baptized agains 
But if-they have no one to take care of them, it is 
impoffible to withhold afiftance from them; for it is 
‘bat juft, that one fhould, with all pofible faithtulnefs, 
take care of a poor fheep, that has neither a fhepherd, 
nor knows of a flock to which it might keep. 


§ 54 


Wit regard to chiléren, we proceed thus, If 


the parents are baptized, we Jikewife baptize the chil- 


dren.{ But we do not baptize the children of fuch 
parents, who are ftill heathen; becaufe we cannot 
hope, that they will be brought up for our Saviour, 
Yet if fuch heathenith parents bring their children 


+ See Crantz’s Hiftory of Greenland, vol. ii. p. 429. 
§ 26. and Oldendorp’s Hiftory of the Miffions, vol. ii. b. 3. 
§vesbs 5. § 2. 
_ $See Crantz’s Hifory of Greenland, vol. ii. p. 63. § 9. 
P 423. § 25. 


| 
{ 


— £79] 


into the meeting, and beg a bleffing for them, the 
miffionary blefles them by .impofition of hands. 

If any one be fick, and requeft to be baptized before 
his departure, he is vifited; and if he be found:to fave 
a fenfe of his mifery, and place ‘his confidence: on 
Chrift, fome of the baptized are taken together, ‘and 
the ‘patient: is baptized in their ‘prefence. Phen it 
happens, that the patient is either very much coms 
fortedy'and departs this life with great joy, orthat he 
is fometimes fo much ftrengthened and:revived, as to 
grow bettér, and is ‘as one new born. 

When an heathen, whom one caniot confider others 
ways in his miferable, finful conditon, than as one 
that‘is ‘wounded unto death, and weltering in his blood, 
upon hearing the gofpel, receives itin faith, and theres 
upon is baptized; one cannot without admiration, 
behold the change that is wrought inhim. Somietimes 
they'themfelves'will fpeak of it, yet though they fliould 
hot do it, their very countenances’ difcover that they 
have obtained mercy.* 

Here it is ftill to be obferved, that'the ‘miffionaries 
are ‘particularly enjoined to keep the tegifters of the 
church in good order, which is peculiarly requifite in 
refpect ‘to ‘baptifm. Though it ‘be commonly per 
formed in the prefence of'the whole congregation, yet 
one cannot, in all congregations among the’ heathen, 
have feparate witneffes of baptifm. It is thetefore 
proper to note down in a ‘book; when, where, and by 
whoin fuch an one’ was baptized, and by what name, 


) See-Oldendorp’s Hiftory of the-Miffions, vol. ii, b. 3. 
§9. bid, voloii. b..4. $4. 


§ 55+ 


[ 80 5] 


§ 55- 


é 


As tothe holy communion of the body and blood 
of Chrift, it has been obferved in § 40, that in the 
Beginning, the views of the brethren, with, refpect: to 
the labour among the heathen, were confined to a few 
only. © Withwregard-to baptifmy they reftricted them- 
felves within very natrow~ bounds, and, fill more fo 
with refpeét to\ the holy communione, And though in 
procefs of time it. came to pafs, by the, providence , of 
God, that the baptifms became more)fiequent, yet the 
number of them that were admitted,to the holy coms 
munion, remained very {mal}, compared to the number 
of the baptized. 

The following is obferved by the brethren with 
refpect to the holy communion. * 

In'the week preceding the Lo:d’s fupper,» itis. made 
known to the communicants, that the Lord’s fupper 
is at hand, and they are exhorted to examine theme 
felves. “Upon which the communicants come, as their 
circumftances will permit, to their Jabourers, and {peak 
with them fimply about the ftate of their hearts, and 
relative to their courfe hitherto, Should any thing 
be found in this or the other, that renders them fcru- 
pulous to partake of it for that time, they mention it, 
and abftain from it for the prefent. If the labourers 
know any thing which renders a perfon unfit to be a 
partaker of the holy communion, they advife him 
rather to abftain from it for that time. ‘The miffiona- 
Hes have likewife <a’ conference with the. national 
helpers, previous to the’ Lord’s fupper, in order to,be 
apprifed by them, as they are conitantly about their 


* See Crantz’s Hiftory of Greenland, vol, ii, P» 432. 
§ 28; and § 29. 


Own 


— 


— 


{ 8 J 
own people, whether they have any thing to objet 
againft any of the communicants, 

The baptized ufuully remind the miffionaries, whea 
they vifit them of themfelves, relative to the Lord’s 
Supper. 

All poffible pains are taken to learn to know ther 
more accurately according to the flate of their fouls: 
enquiry is made of the helpers coacerning their con- 
duct; and, if approved, they are admitted as candi- 
dates for the holy communion; on thefe, particularly, 
clofer inftructions are beftowed concerning it. They 
are ufually f{pectators once, previous to their partaking 
of the holy communion for the firft time, 


§ 56. 


TueE brethren likewife take pain’ to make the heath« a 
acquainted with the holy fcripturés. In their fermons 
they always lay fome words of holy writ as the foun- 
dation; this they do alfo in addreffing particular ho- 
milies to this or the other divifion in the congregation. 
Thus the words of the fcriptures are imprefled on their 
memories, and the Holy Ghoft takes occafion to bring 
them, at a proper feafon, to their remembrance. For 
he is ever occupied to do, what our Saviour faid gon- 
cerning him to his difciples: ** He fhall bring all 
things to your remembrance, whatfoever I faid unto 


> 


you. 


Wherever the brethren have an opportunity of teach- 
ing the children, there they alfo Jearn to read; at times 
alfo grown-up perfons attend, that they may learn to 
read the holy fcriptures *, I happened once to come 


* The otcafion of the Brethren’s fcruples, re{pecting the 
heathen learning to read, may be feen in Oldendorp’s 
Hiftory of the Miffions, &c. vol.ii. b. 3. § 6. 

L A) 


i 
4 
1 
i” 
\ 
if 
a 
y 
} 
i 


2 en een aes 


; { 8] 

‘to a negroe hut in St. Thomas, and heard fomebody 
read in it. On entering, I found a whole company 
fitting on the ground, and one of them reading to them 
out of the Dutch New-Teftament (many negroes of 
St. Thomas underftand Dutch very well, and indeed 

eir Creole negroe Janzuage was moftly formed from 
the Dutch), and the reft heard him with eager atten- 
tion. Among our Indians in North-America, there 
was one who was called Jofhua junior; he always ufed 
to take with him a New- Teftament and an almanac, 
whenever he went a hunting. The one that he might 
know, every day, how time went on, and the other to 
get daily food from it for his foul. The Indians are 
obliged fometimes to fpend four, fix, or eight weeks, 
and even a longer time, in hunting in the woods, be- 
fore they return home again. 

Moreover, I fhould not forget to obferve here, that 
when the Brethren become acquainted with the Jan- 
guage of the heathen, they then tranflate this or the 
other piece into it +4. 

A Greenland tranflation of many fine hymns has 
been printed at Berlin, and a Creole verfion of the fame 
was printed at Barby. The Hiftory of our Lord and Saviour 
Fefus Chrift, extratied from the four Evangelifis, has like- 
wife been tranflated into the Greenland, Arawak, De- 
aware and Creole languages, befides many paflages of 
holy writ, which were tranflated, in order to read them 
to the congregations of the heathen, to whom they 
prove a great blefling }. 

Nor can we fufficiently defcribe the great utility of 
“the ancient and modern gofpel hymns, which were 


t See Oldendorp’s Hiftory of the Miffions, &c. vol. ii, 
b. 4. § 3b. 5. § 1. 
t See Crantz’s Hiftory of Greenland, vol. ii. P 459 46. 
§ Jp. 110.°§ §.—p. 306, § 9. 
tranflated 


oe 


{ 83 J 

tranflated for the ufe of the heathen. When the life 
of God hath penetrated their hearts, they not only 
delight to hear them fung, but will endeavour with 
much care to learn them them(elves. And if the bre. 
thr n are willing to teach them, (and what can be 
more agreeable to them?) they are very diligent ip 
fingirig, and one learns of another. By this means 
not only their thoughts are diverted from unprofitable 
things to fom: thing ufeful, but alfo the divine truths 
exprefled in the‘hymns from a feeling heart, become 
fo imprinted in their minds, as frequently to recur to 
their remembrante ; on which occa ion the Holy Ghoft 
is particularly occupied to blefs them. This js evident 
not only in grown perfons, but alfo in children; and 
it is a peculiar joy to hear, how the Lord hath prepared 
praife out of the mouths of babes and fucklings J. 


§ 57. 


As the miffionaries of the brethren could not ef. 
fe& much among the heathen without affiftants, we 
are next to fpeak of thefe, Among nations deftitute of 
Cultivation, a miflionary could not poffibly do much of 
himfelf. How could it have been practicable for a 
miffionary to relive among the Efquimaux, if provifion 
had not been made for it? This confifted herein, that 
a company of brethren went thither to fettle upon a 
tract of land given them by the King of Great-Britain, 
in order to preach the gofpel to the heathen. They took 
the frame of a houfe and the neceflary bricks along with 
them, and by the affiftance of the failors erected their 
houfe immediately upon their arrival, having previoufly 
purchafed the faid tra&t of Jand from the Efquimaux, 

l| See Crantz’s Hiftory of Greenland, vol. ii. p. 228. 


$ 11.—p. 306, 307. § g.—p. 969, 370. § §.—p. 423. § 22. 
2 - “The 


Sa eee ree 


f 84 } 
The utenfils for fithing and hunting they alfo had brought 
With them, and befides that, they contrived to build 
boats and {mall veffels for the natives, being thus of 
fervice to them, and at the fame time earning fome- 
thing towards their fubfiftence *. 

God alfo hath granted them fuccefs and bleffed their 
undertaking in fuch a manner, that they have already 
gathered a little congregation of baptized Efquimaux. 
Now wherever there is fuch a miffion, there thofe bre- 
thren, who carry on a handicraft bufinefs, are each of 
them {according to the gift he has, and according 
to the grace given unto him) the firft and neareft affil- 
tants of the miffionaries If there be any married bre- 
thren in a comp:ny, which devote themfelves fora mif- 
fion, they alfo take their wives along with them: thus 
thefé fifters are alfo helpers in the work of the Lord 
among the heathen. Whoever thinks 'this frange, let 
him read the-fixternth chapter of St. Paul's epiftle to 
the church at Rome, But what can the fifters p ffibly 
do in a miffion? Very much. For if, e. g. perfons 
of the female fex among the heathen are thoroughly 
converted, they are gl: ad to have fome one with whom 
they con fpeak, without referye, about the ftate of their 
hearts, and indeed about their whole life. The fifters 
can hear them, {peak afterwards with their own huf- 
bands, and tei their thoughts about it; or a brother 
mey feed for them, and, in prefence of his wife, hear 
them and fpeak with them. This is quite in order, 
and {pares the heathen, who a:e commonly very jea- 
Jous, various thoughts. ‘Thus it is alfo with the hea- 
then of the female fex that are already baptized, or 
partakers of the holy communion For fometimes mat- 


ters may o¢cur to them, in which they want advice 


* See David Crantz's Hiftory of the Brethren, p. 606, 
and f. § 297. 
and 


or 


— 4 
{ 85 ] 

and inftrution, or comfort, and being fet right. Thus 
a day feldom paffes, e. g. in St. Croix, where this or 
the other necroe woman does not come to complain of 


fome diftrefs. Now if any brother was to fit down 
and fpeak in private with fuch a negroe woman, we 
fhould deein it is proper, if not dangerous. But where 
fifters are concerned with them, fervinz them with 
good advice in common occurrences, and, in more dif= 
ficult cafes, conful ing their hufbands ; or where a 
brother fpeaks with them in prefence of his wife, there 
it caufes no obfervations, prevents appearances of evil, 
and obviates things that might alfo prove a real hurt to 
fouls, We ourfeives are men, that is, corrupted and 


finful creatures, and among the he 


dea! with people, who, priar to their conv rfion, have 
ufually been accuftomed-to evil. Hence order is ne- 
ceflary, by means of which bad things are obviated 
from the ficft; and God is a God of order, and Jays 
his bleffing upon it. However, more will occur here- 


after of the tervice of the fifters in the miffions. 


§ 38. 


We are alfo_glad when, from among the heathen 
that are converted to God, we can bring up people in 
our miffions for the ufe of others, and thefe we call 
Helpers. 

If a brother that ferves the Lord our Saviour among 
the heathen knows his people intimately,—and he ought 
to do every thing poffible to learn to know them inti- 
mately, and fhould he not poflefs the needful grace and 
gift for that purpole, he is to pray to God for it,—he 
will difcover that one has fomething preferable before 
another, and that is the gift of God. Now if fucha 
man approves himfelf as a poor finner that hath ob- 

tained 


[ 86 j 
tained mercy of the Lord; and if his walk and con- 
verfation be fuch as to gain the regard and refpect of 
Others, then, on that account, fuch an One may, after 
due deliberation before the Lord, be takcn among the 
helpers. Experience hath taught, that it is better to 


a 


endeavour to get more helpers-than one; for if there 
be but one, it may eafily happen eg he fall into 4 
conceitednefs, 

Thefe helpers are made known to the reft, and com- 
mended to their prayers. They are particularly attended 
to, that they may grow in grace and in the know! ledge 
of Jefus Chrift. And they. are commifhioned to watch 
faithfully agaenft any diforders that might occur among 
their people *, "They vifit the fick, affift occafionally t 
the poor, endeavour to preferve peace in their re{pec= 
tive places, and whatever they find too dificult, they 
mention it to the brethren, They keep a watchful 
eye on every one, that, in cafe they fhould be queftioned 
whether any may be baptized, or admitted to the holy 
communion, they might be able to give a true tefti- 
mony of his conduét. 

Such helpers as have gifts are fometimes defired to 


deliver a difcourfe, keep a funeral, &c + Wealfo 
choofe helpers of the female fex, who have the fame 
incumbence with refpe@ to their own fex, as the other 
helpers have on their part; public {peaking excepted, 


} See Oldendorp’s Hiftory of the Miffions, &c, vol. ii, 


i We b. 2. § 6.—-b. 4. § 2 & 4.—b. 5. § 1. and David Crantz’s ‘ 
lt Ki fiiftory of Greenland, vol. ii. p. 197, and f. § 5:—P: 4175 

i. ‘a and f. § 17. 

. 


t Some of thofe difcourfes are found in Oldendorp’s 
Hiftory of the Miffion, vol. ii, b. 5. § 6, towards the con- 
clufion. 


SCRE 


§ 59. i 


SRST SLE 


~~ SS - = meer. 
DOTS 
ri 


PA 


aah ae 


ee: 


§ 59. 


THe helpers of both fexes are likewife ufed, when 
a regulation is made among the baptized, as well as 
thofe of the unbaptized, that are won by grace, to 
meet in fmall numbers, each fex feparately, in order 
to {peak with one another, before the Lord, of what 
may tend to their falvation and amendment. For at 
fuch fmall companies of five, fix or more men, who 
meet together in proper places at an appointed time, 
one of the helpers is prefent, who, according to his 
experience and infight, imparts good advice tothem. The 
focieties of women ate attended by female helpers, who 
does the fame by her fex as the men doby theirs. Intofuch 
companies one gladly admits fuch perfons who are nearly 
in fimilar circumftances; thus there are in one com- 
pany married people, in another widows, in a third, 
young, fingle perfons, &c. and this is attended with 
much bleffing *, 

The iniffionaries, as has already been obferved, meet 
the helpers of both fexes at ftated times, but efpecially 
before the communion and prayer-days, and fpeak with 
them of the perfons propofed for baptifm, or of thofe 
that wifh to partake of the Lords fupper. Befides this, 
they enquiré ‘how the helpers have obferved ‘the com- 
miffion they are entrufted with, and give them an op- 
portunity of mentioning whatever they have to ob- 
ferve: this is ufually called the helpers conference, 
If any are to be baptized, or the holy communion is 
to be adminiftered ; or if a couple are to be married jn 


* See Oldendorp’s Hittory of the Miffions, Sc. vol. ii. Bb. 
li. § 6. and Crantz’s Hiftory of Greenland, vol. ii, P- #1 
32. § 6.—p. 61, and f. § B.—p. 436, and f, $33. 


the 


ee eee ae 


{ 88] 
the name of the Lord, it is always done by the miffio- 
naries themlelves, 


§ 60. 


Tue brethren are ufed to build churches for the 
public meetings of the congreg ations among the hea- 
then as foon as it is found nece eit ary and pofhble. In 
thefe the gofpel is declared publicly; and baptifm, as 
well as the holy communion, are adminiftered.. And 
the prayers of the church, or the litany, is prayed 
with all the baptized. 

On Eafter morning the whole congregation meets 
before fun-rife in the burying ground: when a public 
confeffion is made of the hope we have in Chrift, to be 
once ah akers of the refurrection, and to come to him 

into his glory; and at the fame time thanks are offered to 
the Father, Son, and Holy Ghoft, for all the benefits 
vouchfafed us in Chrift *. 

At times one contrives alfo to have agape with the 
believers fram theGentiles, after the cuftom of the pri- 
mitive chriftians. Then cither the whole congregation, 
or only one divifion of it, which, according tocircumftan- 
ces, is more or lefs numerous, meets together in the name 
of Jefus, and enjoy fome meat and drink in fellowship. 
At the fame time. they fing hymnsof praife and thank{- 
giving, provoking one another unto love and to good 
works, Sometimes they call tom nd fpecial benefits, 
“which God fhewed to. them, and praife him for it t. 


* See Crantz’s Hiftory of Greenland, vol. ii. p. 420. 
§ 20. 

+ See Oldendorp’s Hiftory of the Miffion, &c. vol. ii. b, 
2. § 6. and Crantz’s Hiftory of Greenland, vol, ii. p. 434- 
§ 30 


The 


ee 


. 


—— 


E 8 J 
Tie pedilavium has indeed been introduced intd 
the congregation of Greenlanders*, but we have 
hitherto had feruples about making a public ufe of 
it in all the other congregations of the heathen. For 


it is thought more fuitable to regulate it according to 
eircumitances, 


§ 61. 


MoReEOvVER the brethren are ufed to divide theit 
hearers according to certain circumftances, ih order 
to fpeak with every feparate divifion, that which is 
peculiarly applicable to them. Thefe are; 

1. The unbaptized, who attend the preaching of the 


gofpel, and whofe names, at their own requeft, are’’ 


taken down. 

2. The candidates for baptifm, who, prior to it, 
feceive particular inftru€tion, and whom orie endea- 
vours to learn to know more particularly, 

3. The baptized, who are frecuently put in mind 
of their baptifm, which is the covenant of a good con= 
fcience with God, of their fhare in the death of Jefus, 
and of the forgivenefs of fins, and the hope of eternal 
life, grounded thereupon. 

4. As to thole who have not attended to the grace 
they had experienced in baptifm, but have after 
wards fallen again into fin, we fpeak indeed with thefe 
poor people very ferioufly, but at the fame time direét 
them to Jefus, who fo faithfully feeketh the poor 
ftrayed fheep, and will gladly receive again. each that 
crieth unto hit, with repentance and forrow,+ 

5. The candidates for the communion, to whom is 
reprefented what is needful concerning the favour 


* See Crantz’s Hiftory of Greenland, vol. ii. D. 434, § 30. 
+ See Oldendorp’s Hiftory of the Mifiion, vol. ii. b, 5-84 


M that 


——— EAE rE SET : 
So ee ~ ~ 


ae 


= 


( 


C 90 ] 
that awaits them, namely, the participation of the body 
and blood of the Lord in the holy facrament, and 
whatever belongs to it. 

6. The communicants, that is to fay, thofe who are 
fellow-partakers of the holy communion, of whom one 
expects with juftice, that their fpirit and foul, and 
body and life fhould be to the praife of the Lord. 


§ 62. 


In the congregations among the heathen, ‘fuch regu 
lations are made, that every one may attend the meet- 
ings, not only on the Lord’s day, but alfo in the week.* 
Every fourth Sunday is appointed as a prayer-day, 
which is attended by all who can poflibly come, Then 
there is commonly not only public preaching, but alfo 
all the concerns of the congregation are humbly laid 
before the Lord in the litany; moreover, on the fame 
day, baptifm is adminiftered, and each of the foremen- 
tioned fix divifions hears a difcourfe fuitable to its 
circumftances. If any one hath finned, and begs for- 
givenefs, and one has reafon to believe that he does this 
from his very heart, he is readmitted, and affured at 
the fame time that the congregation, as much as in her 
lies, has forgiven him all. The conclufion is gene= 
rally made with prayer on the knees. Yet as the con- 
gregat’ons, gathered from among the heathen, differ 
according to their refpective circumftances, fo fome 
difference may alfo be obferved in regard to the prayer= 
days. 

The feftivals and holidays ufual in the chriftian 
church are a}{o obferved, and we endeavour, as much 


* See Crantz’s Hiftory of Greenland, vol. ii. p, 418, 
and f. § 18, 19. + ibid, vol. ii. p. 102, and f. § 8.— 
p- 118, and f. § 2, 3.—-p. 422, § 20. 

as 


[91] 


as poffible, that the aim of their being introduced, may 
be obtained.t 


§ 63. 


Bestpes this, their congregations are divided into 
choirs, of which they take each choir feparate, in order 
to adminifter to each fuch food as is meet for it, 
There are particularly : 1. The-children, 2. The boys 
and unmarried men, 3. The unmarried women. 4, The 
married people. 5. The widows. Among the helpers 
of both fexes, there are always fome appanitad to have 
a fpecial care of the feveral choirs. 

Each of the aforefaid choirs have feparate homilies 
at ftated times, that every one may know what he has 
to do, or leave undone, according to the circumftan- 
ces of the choir to which he belongs: In thefe homi- 
lies every thing is grounded on the word of God, and 
deduced from faith, which is in Chrift Jefus.} 

Nor are we content with merely holding homilies to 
the choirs; but take all poffible pains to Jearn to know 
every individual, not only according to the outward ap+ 
pearance, but alfoaccording to the itate of his foul. To 
this purpofe, a certain time is appointed, when one 
after the other is called in, with whom one converfes 
feparately, in a plain and open-manner. And this is 
called {peaking, which has its great ufe.* 


} See Crantz’s Hiffory of Greenland, vol. ii. p. 117. 
and f. § 2.—p. 420, and f. § 20. 

i| See Oldendorp’s Hittory of the Miffions, vol. ii. b. 4, 
§ 4.—and b. 5. § 4. and Crantz’s tiiitory of Greenland, 
yol. ii. p. 61, and f. § 8.—p. 435, and f. § 32. 

* See Crantz’s Hiftory of Greenland, vol. ii, P- 295s 
and f. § 3p. 434, and f, 


M 2 What 


{[ 92 J] 
What David Crantz faith in the hiftory. of Greens 


Jand, vol. ii. p. 125, and following, § 5. ofa choirs 
houfe of the unmarried women, and, p. 201, and fol- 
lowing, § 8. of a choir-houfe of the unmarried men, 
in Greenland, cannot poflibly be imitated in other hea- 
then congregations, e.g. in the Caribee iflands, In 
fuch things one muft proceed according to circumftan» 
ces, which either render it ufeful, and neceflary, and 
poflible, or impracticable, 

The mothers with children yet in arms, have alfo 
their peculiar meetings at certain times, when they are 
inftructed how greatly they ought to value the favour 
of the Lord, in counting them worthy to commit 
children tothem; for children are his property, which 
he hath purchafed for himfelf with his own blood, and 
by his bitter death. So precious are they inthe fight 


of God, that he fends forth his holy angels, who always 
behold his face, to ferve them.- At the fame time, the 
mothers are inftructed how to behave, that their chil- 
dren may, as it were, imbibe the love of Chrift, with 
the mother’s milk, What Mofes and Samuel imbibed 
from their mothers, never left them in al] their lives. 
Wor will the good example of the mothers, and their 


prayers and fupplications before God, remain without 
a blefiing for their children, 

In the congregation fome brethren. and fifters ate 
likewife appointed to ferve the congregation in out- 
ward matters, that every thing may be conducted in 
due order, in the meetings, as well as about the 
church.+ 


+ See Crantz’s Hiftory of Greenland, vol. ii. p. 418. § 17. 


$ 64 


nae ts ahi 


§ 64 


brethren live in fuch places, where, befides the 
heathen to whom they preach Chrift, there live alfo 
other people, who are baptized, and where there are 
chriftjan m aia, then they are, according to our 
principles, to obferve the following: namely: * 

1. That they be not only obedient to the magiftracy, 
who are the fervants of God, and thew due refpe& 
toward them, but alfo that they thank God for them, 
and heartily pray for them. Befides this, they ought 
to be careful, that they may not remain vitlinowit: to 
their dear magiftrates, both as'to their own perfons, 
and touching their defign-in labouring among the hea- 
then. If they can be as confident towards their magif= 
frates, as children are towards their~parents, it is 
always the beft. Nor can we do otherwife than declare 
to the glory of God, that hitherto, in all fuch places 
where our brethren labour among the heathen, the 
magiftrates have approved themfelves as fathers to them, 
Wherever it has been otherwife formerly, it has pro- 
bably been either a miftake on the. part of the brethren, 
or we were not fuficient ly made known to our dear 
magiftrates, 

2. As to Europeans in fuch countries, who before 
belonged to different divifions of the chriftian church, 
the brethren leave every one to his own religion. 
Though they can as little prevent his attending their 
public preaching, as they can withdraw from him, if 
he wifhes to converfe with them, relative to his. foul’s 
falvation in private. Byt they neither receive him 
into their congregation, nor do they admit him to 
their communion, or Lord’s fupper; but advife him to 
abide by that church to a he belongs, feeing that 
they are there merely for the fake of the heathen. 

Yee 


an EE BA ay hn eat 


$5 i IN TTS 


=, 


= 


pe a ee pe 


[94 ] 


Yet it is however certain that one can as little form 
a conclufive idea of the brethren’s congregations, from 
the congregations gathered by means of the brethren, 
among the heathen, as from the former of the latter. 
There always remains, according to circumftances, 
an unavoidable difference. Neither can it be denied, 
but‘that, with refpect to many orders and regulations, 
fome fimilarity is perceivable. It is likewife true, that 
a miffionary among the heathen, is as little permitted 
to advance any propofition that would run counter to 
the evangelical doctrine contained in the Auguftan con- 
fefion, as any teacher in the other brethren’s congrega- 
tions: for we have, at our fynods, facredly bound our- 
felves before the Lord, to remain inviolably by this 
confeflien, 


§ 65. 


Tue nature of difcipline may be gathered from 
what has been faid above. The reafon why one or 
the other is taken to this or the other divifion is fimply 
this, becaufe he naturally belongs to it. Now if any 
one, who has hitherto been in the divifion of communi- 
cants, fhould behave himfelf in a manner unbecoming 
a partaker of the Lord's fupper, and as may juftly be 
expected of him, fuch an one is for the prefent put 
out of this divifion, and of courfe does not receive the 
Lord’s fupper. This is called difcipline; but then it 
is perfeetly confiflent, nor can it be otherwife. If any 
one be in the clafs or divifion of the baptized, he hath 
renounced fatan and all his works and ways; and it 
is expected of him that he fhould keep from eyil things, 
and follow after that which is good. But if he again 


See ae 


_— 


ee 
SS Sa 


at addi& himfelf to fin, he belongs no. move to that 
f clafs or divifion, but is reckoned among the fallen. 
# 

his 


= He 


Saas 


SS 


Pe Re ee ies 


[95 ] 
This again is called difcipline; but it is order, and 
muit be fin a congregation, 

Does any one again audacioufly fin and enter into 
heathenifm, and he is on that account totally excluded 
from the congregation, he does not fuffer wrongfully; 
for he no longer belongs to it, 

This difcipline, where every one is placed in that 
cla(s to which he belongs, and where he is difplaced 
when no longer belonging to it, is very needful among 
the heathen, and wherever it is neglected, nothing but 
hurt enfues. It is likewife conformable to the mind 
of Chrift, and much recommended by the apoftles of 
the Lord. The brethren, therefore, who ferve among 
the heathen, ought juftly to maintain it, and God our 
Saviour owns it, and lays his biefling upon it. I my- 
felf have feen, among the heathen, fuch confequences 
from it, as have aftonifhed me. People of a rough caft 

ave taken it fo deeply to heart, when excluded from 
their refpective focieties, that they came, and of their 
own accord begged the congregation on their knees 
and with tears to forgive them; nay, after the meet. 
ing, they ftepped to the door, and moft heartily be- 
fought every one fingly to forgive them. Indeed 
many, that have given public offence, are publicly 
abfolved, kneeling, in the congregation, with the {pi- 
rit of the church, that is to fay, with the unanimous 
confent of all hearts; and this is by them noe 
looked upon as a punifhment, but confidered as a 
benefit. Such tranfactions as thefe are likewife gene- 
rally accompanied with many tears, not only of the 
returning penitent, but alfo of all prefent. For the 
Lord walketh in the midi of the congregation, and 
owns that which is performed in his name.* 

* See Oldendorp’s Hiftory of the Miffions, vol. die b, i. 


§6.—b. 4. §4, and 5.——b, 5. § 2, 


For 


cope 3 escaptabecaphaunteatina 


po CR ee ENR 


RS a Fe OI Ta eee 


[. 96 ] 


For the reft it is to be obferved, that the congrega+ 
tion difcipline could not, ‘in itfelf be of that utility, 
which is ufually confequent upon it, were it not that 
the Holy Spirit, who is fo active in the congregations 
did himfelf gracioufly interfere in this matters But 
to him we owe thankfgiving, that a poor man, by 
occafion of this difcipline, acknowledges his fins, 
heartily repents ‘of them, confefles them before the 
congtegation, and renounces them. 

Wherever fundry brethren and fifters are labouring. 
in a miffion, and form an houfe-congregation; there 
they are, without refpect to perfons, to ufe the fame 
earneftnefs towards each other, and if that be neglected, 
the Lord himfelf will fometimes take it in hand, and 
remove fuch as might prove a hurt to his caufe. 


§ 66. 


SupeRstTITIOUS and idolatrous cuftoms will at 
times glife along in the dark, and are not fo very 
eafily deteled. To thefe belong efpecially witchcraft, 
and the fhameful power of lies, that occur among the 
heathen, ‘But the more one gains their confidence, 
the more eafily are they brought to light; efpecially 
if fome of the forcerers themfelves are converted, 
which happens now and then, though feldom. For 
when thefe begin cordially to confefs, by what arts they 
have deceived others, one may then rightly perceive 
what is meant by this faying: that God gave up to 
ftrong delufion thofe men, that did not like to retain 
him in their knowledge, that they fhould believe a lie. 
But if fuch things only come to the light, they Rand 


+ See Oldendorp’s Hiftory of the Miffions, vol. ii. b, 2. § 7. 


refuted 


— 


[ 97 ] 

refuted of themfelvéss; ~The brethren’ theréforé ars 
only to be folicitous, that they. do not remain coit- 
cealed. , 

Heathenifh ornaments and fineries; which are either 
the effect of pride, or have other bad motives at bot- 
tom, are not fuffered among the baptized. An indian 
has his head fhaven, but preferves fome locks, which 
he hangs with ftrings of pearls or coral (thefe are called 
wampom); and with various rings, and alfo. with 
filver. .He will flit the extremities of the ears, and 
place a brafs. or filver wire in them, which he twifts 
into a narrow circular form,.in order to join the fepa- 
rated parts, which are cut in the middle, on both fides 
or ends. He hath thef.a large ear, which he adorns 
with flowers and other ornaments. Befides this, he 
will paint his facey perhaps alfo his breaft, with red, 
blue, and other colors, &c. He will alfo etch or cut 
various figures, fuch as ferpents, turtles, and the likes 
on his face, his body, his arms, &c, All thefe things 
we do not allow of in the baptized, but ufe them to 
a plain, orderly indian drefs. 

The nakednefs of the heathen in hot climates; where 
they however ufe to _hide what decency requires, cans 
not well be avoided in their daily occupations, e. gs 
when the flaves work in the fields... However a former 
national helper of the heathen congregation in St, 
Thomas, our late dear brother Mingo, who has now 
happily finifhed his courfe, had brought it fo far 
among his people, that they are all drefled when they 
come to a mecting, and efpeciaily when they go to 
receive the holy communion. 

When one {peaks of the precepts, which, according 
to Ad&ts xv. were to be given. to believers among the 
Gentiles, 1 cannot fay that our brethren were able to 
make ufe of them. For the heathen among whom 
N our 


C 8 J 

our brethren labour, are totally ignorant of the Ifrae- 
lites, and of the various laws which the Lord had 
enjoined them. They alfo live in countries, where 
they have no intercourfe with Jews, We cannot 
therefore tell them, that on account of not giving 
offence to the Jews, they ought to abftain from. this 
or that kind of food. But we muft earneftly admonifh 
them, that they are not only to avoid fornication, but 
alfo,whatever might give occafion thereto, to which the 
heathenifh plays and dancings belong; and fhould any 
one notwithftanding engage in fuch things, he is then 
excluded, until he fhall acknowledge his fin, and pro- 
mife before God, never to do it any more; upoR 
which, if a- cordial repentance be perceived in him, he 
gs abfolved. 

The natural connection which thofe heathen, who 
are converted to Jefus Chrift, have with the other hea- 
then, that are not yet converted, is much more dan« 
gerous than one might at firft imagine. For it is pof- 
fible, that the friendfhip and near relationfhip of an 
awakened heathen, that hath obtained mercy, with 
other heathenifh perfons, might prove an occafion to 
their fuffering in their faith, or at leaft damage in 
their fouls. Hence it is neceflary, faithfully to incul- 
eate to them, the exhortations our Lord and Saviour 
gave to his difciples, of denying friends, brothers, 
fathers and mothers, wives and children. For if they 
fhould love any of their relatives better than the 
Saviour, they muft already have fallen, and would 
thereby incur imminent danger of falling {till more, 
and even lofing their’ own fouls thereby. For a per- 
vere love to their relations would certainly lead them 
to pleafe them in things that are contrary to the Lord, 
and ultimately plunge them into perdition. 

Fo 


[ 99 ] 


To prevent fuch things, which do not become. @ 
ehriftian, it has been found needful, here and there in 
the congregations among the heathen, to think .of 
eftablifhing, certain.regulations.... Thefe, after having 
been, in the prefence and with the concurrence of the 
moft fenfible men from.among the negroes, well 
weighed, were written down, and read to the whole 
congregation, And as the members of it perceived, 
that every thing of that kind was meant for their good, 
they alfu promifed to conduct themfelves accordingly. 
Now if any thing fhould occur, that is contrary tothe 
faid regulations, e. g. if any onc fhould wear heathenifh 
ornaments, or become a party at games which» are 
cuftomary among. the heathen, and the like, he is rem 
proved on that account, and the thing is laid afide 
before it becomes a detriment to others.* 


§ 67; 


Ir were needlefs to detain my readers’ with 2 rela~ 


- tion. of. the various abominations that occur in the 


marriages of the heathen.: However I muft obferve, 
that it frequently happensy»that. a hufband has more 
than one wife. » Now if fuch an one fhould be <on= 
verted, what is to be done? Paul faith, ¢* If any bro= 
ther hath a wife that believeth not, (that is yet a hea= 
then), and fhe be pleafed to dwell with him, ‘let him 
not put her away,” 1 Cor. vii. 12. But again she 
faith; ‘* A bifhop muft: be blamelefs, the hufband OF 
one wife,” &c. 1 Tim, iii..2, Nor do we-farther read 
of any order relative to this cafe. The brethren there- 
fore believed they would do beft to keep to the follow. 
ing points, namely ; 


* See Cranta’s Hiftory of Greenland, vol. ii, p. 133, 


and f. § 6. - 
N2 a Thag 


[ 106-9 


)oThat they could not oblige aman that-had, bee 
tie his converfion, taken more than one wm, to put 
away one, or more of them, 

2. But yet that they could not appoint fuch a man 
to be a helper or fervantin the congregation: and, 

3. That one, who believeth in Chrift, if he marry, 
can take only ONE WIFE, and that he is bound alone 
to THAT WIFE, fo long as fhe liveth.* 

For ‘the reft, the brethren® not only inculcate to 
married people, in» what*manner they “may conduct 
their married ftate according to the mind of Jefus, 
concerning which -we find beautiful in&ruGtions in 
boly writ; but alfo impartia bleffing ‘ta thofe that 
engage in matrimony, and :faithfuly advife them to ao 
it in the'name of Jefus.¢:. ‘The miflionaries likewife 
bléfs fuch to their marriage; in the name ofGod, who 
entered into that ftate as heathen, provided was have 
by baptifm been incorporated into the church of Chrift, 
and are partakers of the holy communion, See David 
Gran‘z’s Hiftory of Greenland, vol. ii. ps.rgzo§ g- 

There occur, however, with regard;to the.married 
{tate among the flaves, even after their baptifm, fuch 
circumfianeessin-which our ‘brethren are totally ata 
Jofs how to a. | If, -e. gs0a gentleman in the Weit« 
Indies, who hath perhaps'two-or three hundred. negroes 
on.a plantation, dies; and deaves many debts, shis pro- 
perty, and. of courfe his negroes, are fold’ by audtion, 
Such auctions are attended alfo by, purchafers from 
the neighbouring. iflands; (and then’ it frequently 
occurs.in that,,as welj as in other cafes, that not only 


* See Oldendorp’s Hiftory of the Miffions, vol. ii. b. 4, 
§ 1, towards the end, 
' ¢ See Oldendorp’s {Hiftory of the Miffions, vol. ti, b. 2. 
§ b-—b, 3. § 9..and Crantz’s Hiftory of Greenland, yol. di. 
P+ 47) and f, § 8.—p, 438, and f, § 35, and 36. 
thg 


[ 101 J 


the parents become for ever feparated from their chile’ 
dren, but the wives from their hufbands, - 


§ 68. 


Tue brethren take particular care of the children 
of the heathen. No opportunity is omitted to enforce 
to the parents.a faithful infpection of their children, to 
keep them carefully from every thing that is bad, and 
to inculcate to them, as much as poffible, that which 
is good,* 

Wherever it is practicable, ase. g. in Greenland) 
they keep fchools for them, inftru@ting them in reads 
ing, and other ufeful things. And wherever this is 
not feafible, as\e. g. in the Weft-Indies, where the 
children are not only much feattered, but. are alfo 
employed by their mafters in various things; there 
they appoint certain days for meetings of the children, 
when they fpeak to them in a manner fujtable to their 
age and capacity, of the way of life, that is of our 
Lord Jefus Chrift ¢ Sometimes they will change their 
difcourfe into fhort eafy queftions, in order to be the 
better underftood, and at the fame time to try, whether 
the children have apprehended what they faid. In 
fundry places where the children are difperfed, par- 
ticular perfons are appointed to vifit them, who have 
no other commiffion, than juft to take notice of chil. 
dren, This regulation was fo acceptable to the chil- 
dren, that on {pying their yifitors from far, they would 
run to meet them, and beg to flay with them a little, 


* See Oldendorp’s Hiftory of the Miffions, vol. ii. b. 3. § 4, 
¢ See Crantz’s Hiftory of Greenland, vol.ii. p. 22. § 5. 
emp. 32. § Gp. 251. § b.—p. 371. § 6 


and 


[ i102 } 


and:theh they would liften with the greateft attention 
to the words delivered to them,* 


§. 69. 


Tt is,likewife a concern of the brethren, that have 
the care of the heathen, to bring thofe that are con- 
verted ta our Saviour, into good order outwardly. 
We. have found in moft places where brethren dwell 
among the heathen, that thelatter go on without much 
care or thinking. Were they with fuitable confidera- 
tion to regulate their. matters, duly to,take care and 
manage what providence gives to them, they would 
not fo often be driven to the utmoft diftrefs. But in- 


ftead of that, they are idle when they fhould labour, 


and when they have any thing to eat, they will fquan- 
der it in. an extravagant manner; and afterward they 
are miferably diftreffed for want of food, and tormented 
by the cares of this life, 

But when they are baptized, the brethren. advife 
them to a regular labour, e.g. to plant in due feafon, 
to hunt, to fifh, and do every thing needful: they alfo 
learn of the. brethren how to keep and preferve what 
they may get, for the winter. And being incapable 
of making a proper. calculation (for they have no 
almanacks), and to regulate themfelves according to 
the feafons, the brethren alfo affift them in this refpeét. 
J will ilJuftrate this by an inftance or two., Dried 
herrings are of great ufe to the Greenlanders in win- 
ter, for their fubfiftence; but when they grow wet 
they are fpoiled. ‘To obviate this, the brethren not 
only encourage the Greenlanders to be diligent .in 


* See Oldendorp’s Hiftory of the Miffions, vol, ii. b.-4. 
§ 2, 3s qemb. 5, § 4. 7 


catching 


A 


{ x03 J 


catching herrings at the proper feafon, but alfo to dry 
them well, and affift them in preferving them dry. If 
the brethren are among the indians, they endeavour to 
A tg get them to clear their fields at the right time, to furs 
E round them with hedges, plant them with indian wheat, 
F and to cut it down in a proper manner; thus a dife 
7 ference is very perceptible between their people, and 
other indians’ for if thofe indians, who have neglected 
planting, fuffer hunger, the others have always. fe 
much, as to be able to {pare a part’of it to them, 


§ 70. 


3 Various things occafionally occur, which muft 
3 be brought into order among the heathen that are con- 
verted to Chrift. If, e. g. a provider dies in Green. 
land, (thus they call the head of the family) the widow j 
and her orphans are worfe off than one can imagine, t 
Or if a hufband lofes his wife, and the has left a fmall i 
child, that ftill wants the mother’s breaft, he is as 
badly off; for it is very difficult to get a Greenland 
} woman to fuckle any child but her own. Hence it 
: is, that thofe Greenlanders that are yet heathen, and 
live among heathen, find themfelves obliged, ‘at times, { 
] to bury fuch a motherlefs infant alive. Now if the | 
K* cafe occurs, that the wife of an hufband dies, leaving i 
a fucking child behind, the brethren do not reft till 
they find a perfon that will take care of the little ij 
orphan, and give it fuck with her own child, ~ If the 1 
hufband dies, they divide the orphans, and take care 
I to have them properly educated, and likewife that the 
widow may be fupplied with the neceflaries of life,* 


* See Crantz’s Hiftory of Greenland, vol. ii, p, 226, 
and f. § 10,—p. 407, and f, § 9g. 


An 


{ 104] 


In fickneffes, likewife, which happen among the hear 
then, the brethren are obliged frequently to take care 
of their people.* 

There are indeed fome people among the heathen, 
that know good remedies for various diforders, and for 
this reafon they are made ufe of by others, Among 
the indians in North America, there are, ¢. g. people 
who fuccefsfully cure the bite of ferpents, and to 
whom the neighbouring Europeans have recourfe in 
fach cafes. -Alfo among the negroes in the Weft 
Indies are fkilful and experienced perfons, to whom 
others apply in their difeafes. But thefe heathenith 
doétors are jugglers, and generally affect to fhew they 
eure the fick by magic. Therefore believers from 
among the heathen, when fick, confult their teachers, 
and often apply with fuccefs {uch remedies, as they 
have for their own ufc, 


§ 71%. 


MoRrEOVER, divers misfortunes, that occur in the 
congregations among the heathen, reduce the brethren 
to the neceflity of taking care of them alfo in refpect 
to their outward concerns. There was, €.g. a cone 
gregation of indians at Chekameka in the diftri@ of 
New York, which had formerly in a fit of intoxication, 
and. while they were ftill heathen, fold the right to 
their land for a trifle, and when, afterward, they be- 
came converted, occafion was taken from this, to drive 
them out of their country. Mot of thefe peopie took 
refuge with the brethren-at Bethlehem in Pennfylvania, 
and were, with the confent of the governor of Penn-~ 
fylvania, received and treated in a brotherly and hof- 


lem 


Bins 


- 


25a ta ee 


* See Crantz’s Hiftory of Greenland, vol. i. p, 390, $4 


BM ce ses. 


[105°] 
Pitable manner. ‘A piece of land was purchafed foi 
them on the Mahoni, which anfwered the purpofe of 
huating, as well as for the cultivation of their corn; 
and they were affifted by the brethren in building, and 
in the management of their outward matters,* 

The fatae, thing happened with other indians, who 
were obliged to quit the land they had fold, at 
Wechquatnach + 

The indian congregation at Meniolagomekah expes 
rienced the fame fate; and the brethren could not for= 
bear lending them a helping hand ia fuch circumftane 


ces, and caring for their fupport.t 
In the year 1755, the brethren, who lived with the 
indian congregation on the Mahoni, were furprifed, 
at the beginning of the night, by. thofe indians, who 
had taken up the hatchet againft the Englith (that is, 
according to their language, had Ve; gun the war); they 


killed eleven of the brethren, difperfed the whole con= 
gregationy and laid the whole place in afhes, But 
the brethren fought again for the feattered theep, took 
them to Bethlehem, where they provided for them, and 
took the fame care of their fouls, as they ‘had done 
before. |} 


$72: 


Tit aim of the vifitations which are from time to 
time appointed, «is; that a brother, nominated by the 
direction of the Unity, may inform himfelf in the 
mifhons, how it goes with them in the whole, and 
individually, Some things are of fuch a nature, as 
immediately to. admit of better regulation, if requifize; 


* See Crantz’s Hiftory of the Brethren, p, 331, and f. 
§ 139. + Ibid, p. 424, and f. § 188. ft Ibid, p. 424) &ce 
] Ibid, p. 468, and f, § 217-—p, 472, and f, § 220. 

O others 


[ 186 J 


éthefs however tequire fome deliberation with the 
Elders Conference of the Unity, and are mentioned 
previoufly by letters from the vifitor, or laid before 
them by word of m« outh on his return, What a vifitor 
has to take notice of in a miffion, is, in.the firft place, 
the do@trine and mode of teaching 5 for we are ever to 
be upon our guard, left any thing fhould creep in that 
might be contrary to found do@trine, and that nothing 


} 


mig nt 


be withheld, of omitted, belonging to the whole 
counfel of God concerning our,.falvation ; as alfo, that 
no one depart from fimplicity in the pri aching of the 
gofpel, In the next place he is required to obferve, 
how it’ is with the brethren an aciheap who are ap- 
pointed together in a miflion, relative to th seir inwasd 
and outward ftate ; whe ther any of them have {uffered 
hurt in their foul; whether their calling, to ferve our 
§ b 


Saviour among the hee athen, be ftill important and 


wreer to them; Ate thy live- together in hearty 
and brotherly love; whether each, on his part, does 
what might “uftly. be expected of himy,:dze. 


25 this, it #s incumbent on him to learn to know 


the congregation in general, and. the members of it in 
fticulars Tr meetings, he not only confiders, 


r thing be tranfaéted with that decency 
becoming divine things,-but alfo 


obferves particularly, 


: 2 pike 
prefence of our Saviour 1s felt 


and perceived in them, He converfes with the 


labourers upon all the orders and regulations in the 
congregation ; and where he obferves any thing that 


f{eems to require an alteration, he fpeaks with them 


relative te it. In fpeaking with the fingle members 
of the congregation, that is to fay, with the baptized 
and communicants, he endeavours to learn, whether 
they have adtually, as poor finners, fought and found 
crace at the feet of Jefus, and whether they continue 


& 


in 


{ 107 ] 


in the grace they once obtained, are obedient to the 
dictates of the holy Spirit, hating and efchewing, tha 
which is evil, but loving and following after that 
which is good ; and whether they ffand in a confiden» 
tial intercourfe with Jefus Chrift,and ‘brough bim 
with our dear Father in heaven, as.alio, whether they 
walk in love, &c. He attends himielf the conferences 


of the helpers, obferving whether epennefs, fincerits 
> g ’ 


’ 
and confidence ruje among them. He alfo enquires 


upon what footing the brethien are with their dear 
magiftrates and neighbours. 

Such vifitations take upa great deal of time, and 
are not only very expenfive, but alfo, efpecially when 
one is obliged to crofs the feas in time o a war, attended 
with much danger. In the mean while, they. are not 
only ufeful, but alfo neceflary fometimes, they have 
therefore been held in Greenland and Terra Labradsp, 
as well as in North and South America, and in the Eaff 
and Weft- Indies. It is. indeed our hearty wifhi that they 


might take place more frequently 


§ 73. 


T oO comprize the whole briefly together, the labours 
ef the brethren among the heathen aim at this, that 
they might be enabled: to fay ofa truth: ** Whether 


fitations 


rother Martin. Mack 
in confequence of a commijffion from the Eld 
of the Unity. He was a bifhop of the Bre 
and is lately (after a faithful and bleffed fervice « 
thirty. years among the heathen, chiefly in the 
Carribee iflands) entered into the joy of his Lord at 


Croixs 
O 2 


{ 108 J 
we live, we live unto the Lord; and whether we die, 
we die unto the Lord: whether we live, therefore, 
or die, we are the Lord’s,” Rom, xiv. 8. That the 
prethren’s labour is not in vain, for this glory is due to 


te 


God alone, who caufeth his gofpel to approve itfelf as 
the power of God unto falvation, to every one that 
believeth, O how often are they rejoiced, and encou- 
raged to praife the Lord, when poor heathen, -who 
put their truft in Jefus, finifh their courfe through 
this life comfortably and joyfully, in a confident hope 
of eternal life, amidft all the pains of their bodies.¥ 
‘The brethren likewife: appoint every where, where it he 
js practicable, burying places for the converted from 
among the heathen; and whereas the unconverted 


heathen depofit their dead into the ground, wherever 
the relations think proper, with howling and fhouting, 
the brethren treat the burials in a manner becoming 
chriftians. At the grave, either the miffionary, or 
one of their helpers, delivers a difcourfe to the people 
affembled, which on fuch occafions are generally very 
numerous, and then concludes with prayer and giving 
of thanks, 

Now fmall as this labour of the brethren among the 
heathen may appear to one or the other; yet if the 
words of our Saviour = duly confidered : _$* What 
fhal] it prohta man, if h aime sin the whole world, and 
lofe-his own foul?” it would caufe one to think others 
wile, For ifit is clear from this paflage, that one 
foul is of i more value befére God, than all the riches 
of the whole world, (and this is however the plain 
fenfe of this faying) then is the falvation of a fingle 


4 
yol, 1. p. 441, and f % § 38, 


heathen, 


[ 109 j 
peathen, who through the gofpel is brought to Chrift, 
and obtains in him the forgivenefs of fin, life and fale 
vation, to be far more highly efteemed, than the gain 
of the whole world, 

This treatife was not written with a view to praife 
the brethren: For who are we, that God fhould count 
us worthy to make any ufedat all of us? We have 
made many miflakes every where, and we ftill come 
mit many. Had we done all things, which are 
commanded us, we ftill could, according to the word 
of the Lord, fay nothing elfe, but that we are unpro- 
fitable fervants: we have done that which was our 
duty to do. And what does an unprofitable feryant 
deferve? We will /be glad and thankful if the Lord 
jn mercy forgives us our debts, 


Meanwhile that which we do among the heathen is 
not our work, but the Lord's. The ground we have 
to cultivate is the Lord’s. He himfelf does al] things 


by his powerful word, and by his Holy Spirit. For 
“neither is he that planteth any thing, neither he 
that watereth; but God that giveth the inereafe,’ 
1 Cor, iii. 7. In the mean time, the fervants of Jefus 
have however the honour of being called, in holy writ, 
Jabourers together with God. 

For this caufe we entreat that no man may ftand ig 
our way, in that which God hath commanded us, and 
in what he himfelf hath put into our hands. If this 
be done, (and it has, alas, been too often done) we 
fhall certainly bear it; yea, we thall pray for our 
oppofers, which we do indeed in ftillnefs, as well as 
in our litany; but let fuch an one confider, that he 
is fighting againft God, who will have all men t9 
be faved, and to come unto the knowledge of the truth. 

We hereby thank our friends, our brethren and 
filters, heartily, for the fhare they, have bithertg 

taken 


[ 110 J 
teken in our labour among the heathen, and 
fupporti: Biter partly ore their prayers and. blef- 
fing, and part! ly by their willl ¢ ¢ 
words of John in his third epiftle, verfe 5, &c. may 
be properly 2 
fully, whatfoever thou doft to the 6 weltucent Ai tS 


contributions. The 


: ees Re} 1 oe 
ied heré ¢ ** Beloved, thou doft faiths 


>? i. 4+ 


firangers ;)—ihat is, to ngers as thou enter- 


tiers ‘ 
taineft—** which have born of thy charity 


before the chur< h: -whom if thou bring forward of 
; after a godly fort, thou fhalt’ do well. 
for his name’s fake they went forth, 


aa 


their ieee rne 


, nothing of the Gentiles,”’—like Paul, 1 Cor. 
<<. 185 2 We ‘there fore ought to ieee ive fuch, that we 
be fcltow-helpers to the truth.” F For fot mn faith 


concerning Diotrephes : <¢ Ee himfelf doth not receive 
the brethren, and forb ddeth them that would, and 
eafteth them out 0 

Sut we will pray to Go 


us ‘the fight perfons for among the heathen, 
that he would fill them w rith love to him, and with love 
to the poor fouls whom Chrift hath purchafed with his 


own blood—that he we fould be with them in -their 


laboars, and caufe hi themecthae 


i | the }, Ay 
he would open the hearts 


that ‘of ‘bydi 


merly 
heart the word, and receive 1 
not fuffer the beautiful feed of t 
ider foot by wild beafls—that 
I 


{7 
ipl 


heathen to be trodden 
Ke father would canfe it to 
bring forth fruit that may ripen well—and that he 


may grant them rain and fun-fhine in due feafon——in 


a word: that he may fpread_ his kingdom over the 
whole earth. Glory ;be to the Father, and to the Sony 


and torthe-Hely Ghoft. Amen. 


‘ APPEN.~ 


a@&) A LETTER 3 N WHICH sOMB 
Kot aaee IS- “GIVE 2 : BRETHREN’s 


Fal 


SOCIETY FOR THE SS RTHERANCE OF THE 
TG SET eee 
DEAR FRIEND, 


n had a meeting to-d ay, when 


ur S« Ciety fo the . ** furt} 1€rance of 


tifh domj- 
35" and fettled it on a more enlar fy is but 
as you may be glad to know fomething of the original 
efion of this a y; L.will endeavour ¢ give j 


/ 


ron 


you as 
exact an account as Tam able, ry the occafion whe 


gave rife to the SS ee of beginning fuch a fociety 
almof twenty-feven years ago, and what our fociety 
then was. 


fociety is even now but fmall, and was begun 
by a few perfons of thé middle ra » or rather fome. 
thing above the lower fort of people, but they were 
filled with a zeal, perhaps feldom to be found but 
among perfons of that rank; they were a good natured 
willing people, quite in earneft in the matter, and 1 
can aflure you, it was one of the greateft pleafures of 
my life, to fee thofe few fo hearty and alive in the 
thing, 


Tie 
4H 


{ 112 J 


Titr brethren’s church having had invitations ta 
preach the gofpel to the heathen, in fome parts of the 
Britifh America, fome members of that church came 
to London in their way thither, and being unacquaint- 
ed with ‘the language, had, at their firft fetting outs 
many and troublefome difficulties, and ‘were liable to 
uncommonly difagreeable circumftances, for want of 
being properly underftood and known, and for want of 


€ 


fome friendly care and recomn 
tains of the fhips-they went with, and to fome friends 
in the countries they went to; neither were they 
abounding in this world’s goods, but had a truly an 
tient apoftolical truft in God, that he would know 
how to bring them to the places they. were going tos 
and as they had little experience in the price of freights 
and the charges of long voyages, they were not always 
fufficiently provided, a priori, with the money’ necefs 


fary to fuch purpofes. 


Some perfons in London, with whom they had 
providentially become acquainted, took their circum- 
ftarlees into confideration, and wifhed to know how to 
a&tin the bef manner to affit thofe whom they faw 
venturing their lives and health in order to bring 
the heathen to the knowledge of Jefus Chrift, for the 


falvation of their immortal fouls. 


I must tell you, my dear friend, that the very 
fight of thefe truly apoftolical men, and their zeal for 
the converfion of the heathen, not in a prefumptuous 
or vain fpirit, or pharifaical affc&tation, but full of a 
humane, chearful, humble behaviour, was fo edifying 
to us, that it made us, who were intimate with them, 
and witnelles to their conduct here, with moft zealoully 

to 


endation to the caps - 


ears or 
SED 1) eae See 


bse 
a 


ora 


vay Je 


which we thou-ht 

ecute, and properly 

to FURTHER them on thei? w ay, and thence we'tooc 
the name of the ‘* Socie ty for the furtherance of the 


rofpel.” I remember the ideas we then had; and the 


Fi 
{pirit of our firft meetings 


We believed, that our Saviour had died for the 
whole ‘world, and would have al) men to be faved by. 
the knowledge of the truth, which he had ordered to 
be preached to all ‘nations: We faw thefe men willing 
to carry the gofpel to the heathen in perfon, at all 
hazards, and we faw that they did it-out of Jove for 
Jefus Chrift, and a defire to fulfil his vill, ard a ten- 
der concern for the falvation of the heathen, and that 
they had embraced the providential call they’ had’te 
this bleffed bufinefs, 


WE recolle&ed that there was one Lord, one S2- 
viour for us- and them, and that, though we forour 
perfons thought we had not, or perhaps. never might, 
have the fame call’ with them to go and preach to the 
heathen in perfon, yet being redeemed by the fame 
precious blood of Chrift; ‘and having believed the 
gofpel, as well as thefe willing miffionaries, we had 
in general the very fame induceme nt, which they had, 
to be helpful in our refpective ftations and callings 
the furthering of that work, which we fuppofe 
reafonably would be agreeable to the univerfa} 
Saviour and. Friend of m unkind, who had aid d 
his life for his enemies, who only need be known 
beloved and obeyed, and in whofe name alone there 
compleat falvation, 


A NR 


Axp although-the being a member of this fociety 
2S 


not imply a call to go in among the hea» 
then, but only fhews our free, willing and difinterefted 
defire to ferve the miffions; yet we muft own, that 
at times we have felt in our. meetings fuch.a ftrong 
impulfe to take perfonal fhare in their miffions, that 
we all fain would have gone ourfelves on that impor- 
en bleft with 


tant errand. Indeed fome of us have be 
fuch acall now and then; but the remainder have had 
the comfort to be faithful partakers and promoters 
of this great work of God, by catching at every oppor- 
tunity to ferve it at,home, by giving all the afiflance 
in our. power. 


We were at firft. but a few, and thefe met together 
to confider, how we might contrive to make the little 
help, each of us could give, become any thing worth 
naming by being added together, and to make that 
little go as far as it could., ‘To this purpofe we refolved 
to form ourfelves into a fociety, towards the defigns of 
which each member might contribute flatediy or occa~ 


se oes sak yp is LS eee 
mite, each according to bis abuity, 


fionally, his Ist 


without teazing one another to enlarge the 


contribution, as we believed, that our generous Savicur 
bad no pleafure in conftrained gifts, and that he likes 
only fuch as are given out of a free, willing heart, fo 
we made that a principal point with us; and I can 


truly fay, we wanted then more to reftrain our mem- 


to.an increafe. of their contribution. Such was the 


fpirit.of thofe days. 


We employed ourfelves therefore as a fociety in 
seceiving and entertaining {uch miffionaries who pafied 
through 


é 
; 
. 
- 


through London in their way to America, providing 
them proper lodgings, taking care\ to fupply what 
might be wanting for their freight and provifions, and 
fome neceflary refrefhments in their voyage,’ recom- 
mending them to the captains, making the bargain for 
their paflage, taking care of their letters, doing their 
little commiffions, and indeed every kind-of thing, 
wherein we could further them, or be of pleafure*or 
fervice to them 3 and, can you think, that was not 
a pleafure to ourfelves? My dear friend; it was a 
great one, and it was a very giéat advantage 'to us to 
fee fo many apoftolical people, whom the delays of 
their voyages “kept here occafionally, a conf 


waiting for convoys, &c. They were much to our 
edification, ftrengthening and confirming our “faith inf 
Jefus Chrift, not only by their words; but by theit 
good example. 


So we went on for feveral‘y 
brethren’s -churcl the miffions increafingy wa 
obliged to appoint general deputies of 41] their cHurches 
who had the care for providing for their heathen mif- 
fions in all parts of the world; who receive the éon- 
tributions of all their churches to this work. But we 
have now défired, that our fociety here be revived; 
particularly for that branch of the heathen miffion in 
the Britifh dominions; that we may again take our 
little {hare in our feveral branches of affiltance, which 
the: general heathen deputies had for feveral years 


entirely taken upon themfelves; and we are ntuch 


obliged to them, and to all our churches, for the plen« 
tiful contributions they have given thefe many years 
to the heathen miffions in the Britith dominions, and 

Fs doubt 


[ 136 J 


doubt not of theirkind continuance, of which we have 
the cleareft hopes. , 


As many of the old members therefore as were ftill 
in London, met together toeday, to renew and revive 
our fociety, and we had the pleafure to have feveral 
of the ancient brethren of the brethren’s church with 
us, with whom we firft became acquainted, in their 
paflage through London, in their way to the heathen, 
and who were at the firft forming of the fociety, almof 
twenty-feven years ago. 


AT this meeting we tried to give our fociety a con 
fiftence ;..we revifed our rules, chofe new members 
of the fociety by ballot*, appointed by a majority of 
votes, fix perfons to be the committee for current 
affairs of the fociety, one.of whom was chofen treas 
furer of the fociety, and the other fecretary ; the fors 
mer correfponds alfo wich the general deputies of all 
the brethren’s ‘churches’ for the heathen miffion, and 
two brethren, who are called fervants of the fociety, 
whofe bufinefs is chiefly to execute the refolutions of 
the committee and fociety, in the feveral branches of 
activity neceflary in. buying in fhip-provifions and 
frefhments, in fpeaking with the captains the mif~ 


re 
f 19 
Hicha 

} 


; go with, making the bargain for their pafiage, 
g them in proper time on board, doing their 
bufinefs at the Cuftom-houfe, &c. and.every one of 
red to be affiftant 
to thefe two fervants, oceafionally, in executing the 


réfolutions of the committee and fociety, 


I 
conduc 


the focicty and committee are-eng 


tt 


*One rejeting ballot is {ufficient to hinder any perfon 
keine chofe a member. 


TRE 


THE committee meet as often as there is occafion; 


generally once a week, the whole fociety at leaft once 
a month. 


THE proper conftituent members of the fociety 
are all of them actual members of the United Brethren’s 
church, and every ordained minifter of the Brethren’s 
gla who happens to be prefent in London, has a 
rig éBy our rules to a feat and vote in the commiftee, 
Gat we have reafon to expect many good fervices from 
their prefence and enceuragement, 


Bur by-our rules we can admit honorary mem 
bers and correfpondent members, not of our church, 
who, when in London, can be: occafionally prefent, 
not only at the public general meeting, when the 
accounts of the progrefs of 


the 
the 


gofpel among the 


heathen are read, but alfo atthe meeting of the mem- 
bers of the fociety. fo thefe honorary or cortef= 
pondent members will be communicated, occafionally, 
the f) counts we receive of the work 6f the 
Lerd the heathen, v 
the fo 


and we 


is the chief joy of 


id for the fake of which we are a fociety, 


every where that the natration of the 
free-willing fufferings of Chrift for’ the fins of the 


world, is received by the heathen with attention, 
2 


and when indeed believed by them, changes their 
hearts. and whole life, and ‘fhews plainly that true 


faith cannot but produce. good works and a proper 
behaviour, and that thefe heathen believers become 
happy in themfelves, and very exemplary chriftians. 
we have feveral thoufand inftances among 


the divers. nations of the indians in North and 


JF this 


South-America,. the Greenlanders,* and the: negroes 
in 
oa : 


As alfo the Efquimanux in 


[ 118 J 


in the Weft-India iflands, and they not only becarté 
* happy and good chriftians for themfelves,; but con- 
fequently good neighbours, good fubjects, and ufeful 
to focicty in general, and the negroes in particular 
2 very faithful to their mafters. 


ie 
H 
) 

2 


wage 


No perfon of the fociety is required, be he a€tual 
member, honorary member, or correfpondent mem- 
ber, to contribute. Some are not able to contri 
bute much, others can contribute more, and when 
the members of the fociety meet at their monthly or 
occafional meetings, each perfon may put in a box, 
placed in the room for that purpofe, whatever he 
fhall be difpofed to give, quite unobferved. If there 
fhall happen to be a call for any extraordinary ex 
pence, the affair will be mentioned, and no one will 
be hindered from giving openly according to the 
exigence of the cafe, but no one is conftrained to give 
at all. 


- 


AT the feveral meetings of the fociety, any matter 
which occurs will be related, or any thing which re= 
quires deliberation will be confulted about, an ace 
count will be given of what has been received and laid. 
out, what may be wanted tobe done, what miffions 
are going forward, what the fuccefs is, or promifes to i 
be here or there ;. the committee report what has pafled 
in their meetings, &c, —- 


Every year the whole committee can he continued, 
or changed at the pleafure of the fociety, 


AND at the meetings of the fociety any of our ruleg 
e@r proceedings can be corrected or altered, if needfirly 


for. 


for we know that all human things may be altered for 
the better., 


Ar the above-mentioned public meeting, the ac+ 


counts of the progrefs he gofpel are read. openly 
; 


a) 
at Fetter-Lane Chapel monthly; at which alfo ftrans 


> 
gers, who behave orcerly, are admitted. 


T noucH we have hitherto publithed to the world 
but very little of the detail of our fuccefs in the hea- 
then miffions, except, very lately, the Greenland hif- 


tory, [which is inveed well worth thesattention of all 
hich we were 


van's of God, not of our church, who blamed us: for 
conceaiing fo long the marvellous effects of thesprav¢ 
of God upon thofe barbarians. To him be glory and 
honour for ever, Amen.) I fay, though we have 
hitterm pubiifhed fo little to the world in general of 
the detail of our miffions, yet we cannot withhold from 
our own people the comfortable accounts we receive 
from thence, and as we hope that the prayers of all 
good and ferious people, who may come frecly to that 


£ 
monthly public meeting, (and we fuppofe fcarce any 


oC 
fu 


elfe will find any pleafure in being there) wiil be of 


fervice to our undertaking, we therefore read thefe 


accounts with open doors. 


W =£ have frequently wanted more money than we 
had any vifible profpect of receiving, yet God ftirred 
up the hearts of the fociety and its friends and well- 
withers, fa that we were able to do many things more 
than our means feemed to promife, and his bleffing and 
gracious countenance was upon us, 


May 


{ 120] 


May he be pleafed to blefs the renewal of this 
fociety, to take pleafure in us, to give and keep up in 
us a lively and genuine free fpirit, and even fuch poor 
beings as we are, fhall be ufeful in our little degree to 
his kingdom and fervice, 


I FORGOT to tell you, that our fociety meets at 
No. 10, Nevil’s-Court, Fetter-Lane, Fleet-Street. 


J am, 


My very dear friend 
¥ «London, apie : 
Bape. 3, 1768, 
Ever Yours, &c. 4 


J. Hi 


| 
a0 6.) STATED 
{ 
| 
| 


6.) Statep Rures or tre Bretitnen’s 
SOcIETY, FOR THE FuRTHERANCE Of 
THE GOSPEL AMONG THE HEATHEN, 


E, whofe names are underwritten, being Cons 
vinced, that the Brethreh’s church hath a 
peculiar call from God to carry the glad tidings of 
falvation to the heathen, and efpecially to fuch as 
never yet heard of the Redeemer of the world; and 
knowing alfo that many minifters and members of the 
faid church are now actually employed in this blefled 
work, the fuccefs and happy fruits of whofe labour 
are feen in.many places; and being ourfelves in union 
with this church, cannot but moft ardently with to 
promote this great work of God to the beft of our 
powers 


THEREFORE we have refolved to form ourfelves 
into a fociety; under the appellation of ** The Bre» 
thren’s Society for the Furtheranee of the Gofpel 
among the. Heathen,” and unanimoufly agreed upon 
the following articles as the flated rules of this 
fociety. 


ik. ey SS Be oe Ee SF 


Tuts fociety is not formed in Oppofition to any 
ether of the like nature, nor is it to interfere with the 


eharities of eny other fociety whatever, 


Q ARTI- 


‘ 
[ 122 J 


ARTICLE i, 


Tris fociety is to confift of members of the Bre- 
thren’s church, and is properly eftablifhed here in 
London, where they will regularly meet; yet members 
‘may alfo"be chofén, who refidé in other places of the 
Britifh; dominions, or elfewhere. 


{ 


ae tte ue il 


But befide the aforefaid members of the fociety, 
perfons who are not of the Brethren’s church, but are 
friends and well-withers of the furtherance of the gof- 
pel among the heathen, may be chofen as honorary 
members of this fociety ; to whom, from time to time 
accounts will be communicated of the work of our 
Lord among the heathen through the Brethren’s mif- 
fions; and fuch honorary members may be admitted 
occafiorally to the meetings of the fociety. 


ARTIC TLE’ IV. 


Tue defien of this fociety being to affift thofe 
miffionaries and their helpers, whom the dire€tors of 
the miffions of the Brethren’s church may. fend to the 
heathen in different parts of the world, we will not 
confine our affiftance of thofe” miffionaries to gifts and 
contributions only, but it will be our great pleafure 
to promote this amiable work with our. beft fervices, 
in all refpe&s, by entertaining them during their abode 
in England, and alfo fupplying them with all necef- 

t faries for their paflage to’ the places of their deftina- 
| tion, and during their refidence at thofe places, 


a aE ARTI. 


[123] 


ar 


; ae YT LCL Ee 


ALTHOUGH our chief aim is to further the gofpel, Ps 
and aflift the miffionaries in the Britith dominions in 
America, and other parts of the world, yet we are alfo, 
defirous to give all poffible aid to the Brethren’s, ' 
auiflions among the heathen in other countries, 


ARTICLE VI. 


Anp whereas the UniTas Fratrvm, for many 
years fucceffively, hath appointed deputies, and com- 
titted unto them the care of the heathen miffions, and 
the management of the contributions, which, for the 
unavoidabie expences attending this work of God, are : 
given freely, from time to time, by the Brethren’s q 
congregations and by-others ; we will therefore aét'in 
connection and fellowfhip with thefe deputies; on 
which account our fecretafy, and other brethren of the ~ 
committee, are to cultivate a conftant correfpondence 
with them, that we may be informed of the occafions 
requiring our affiftance, and be ready to affift. 


AF TIC LE Ma 


Anp whereas the aforefaid deputies of the Brethren’s 
charch have always a.correfponding agent, who refides 
in London, to éexecuté their Cotimiflions, we will 
always-be ready to give him all the affiftance.we-can 


thercin. 


ARTICLE. Vill. 


Every one c. us is willing to add his mite to thofe 
Sree gifts made at flated times, in the Brethren’s con- 
Q2 gregations, 


cr. 


( 
(124 ] 


gregations, for the fervice of the miffions among the 
heathen. But befides this, a box fhall be placed in the 
yoom whcre we meet, into which every member of the 
focicty may put at any time what be.thinks proper, 
ail which is to be employed for the ufe of the {aid 
miffions. The committee is to take an exaét account 
of this money, as wel] as what may come in by way 
of donation, legacy, or otherwife, and alfo how it is 
expended; and this account is to be laid before the 
fociety once in three months. 


ARTICLE Ix. 


Ir this fociety, or one or more members thereof, 
fhould be appointed truftees of any lands, for a fettlea 
ment among the heathen, in that cafe we engage to be 
faithful to our truft, and not claim for ourfelves, at 
any time, what fhall be fettled upon us in truft, 


AR TILOLE-X, 


Tue ordinary meeting of the focicty to be once a 
Month, at a time and place to be determined upon by 
the fociety, and ‘as foon as can conveniently be, after 
the day on which accounts of the progrefs of the gof- 
pel, efpecially among the heathen, are vufually read in 
the Brethren’s chapel. 


ARTICLE XI, 


THe fociety is to chufe 4 committee, confifting of 
fix members, a fecretary, and one or two fervants 5 
one of the committee is to be appointed treafurer ; and 
oil the ordained minifters of the Brethren’s church pre- 


fent 


#ent in London, are to be looked upon as members of 
the committee, and each of them ¢o have a vote. 


ARTICLE Xit. 


THE members of the committee are to a&@ as depua 
sies of the fociety, and are to mect once a week, or as 
often as may be thought needful for the difpatch of 


bufinefs, and four of the committee are impowered te 
do bufinefs, 


ARTICLE xin, 


‘FHE committee may call an extraordinary meeting 
of the fociety, when bufinefs requires. 


AR-TiC LE 3 


THE committee is impowered, upon any emergency, 
to borrow in the name of the fociety, or contraé debts 
of any fum not exceeding fifty pounds. 


Peer tei Es xy. 


At the firft meeting of the fociety in every year, 
the fix members of the committee, the fecretary, and 
the fervants are either to be continued in their offices, 
or others elected in their places. 


ARTICLE XVI. 


Upon the deceafe or removal of any member of tht 
eommittee, or any other incident requiring a new 
heice, the committee is to propofe fuch perfon or 

perfons 


{126 ] 


‘perfons. to, the fociety whom they think proper for the 
offic & 


’ 


AVRO T.0 fF. Es XV ET 


~Sccn’ perfons ought to be members ‘of thé’ Bre- 
thren’s congregation, of a good capacity, and a 200d 
claratter among the Brethren, as well as among their 
fellow-fubjedts. 


ARTICLE XVI. na 


Persons propofed by the committee to the fociety, 
for members of the committee, are to be chofen by. the 
inajority of the members of the fociety prefent. 


ARTICLE XIX. 


WHENEVER any new member or members are to 
be propofed to the fociety, the committee is firft to 
confidér whether fuch perfon or perfons may be of ufe 
to the fociety in carrying on the abovementioned pur- 
pofes; And if the perfons propofed by the committee 
are approved of by the'unanimous choice of the fociety, 
by ballot, then fuch perfon or perfons are to be ad- 
mitted members: 


ARTICLE Xx, 


Bur if, on the ballot, there fhould be any hegad 
tive to the thoice of the perfon propofed, the member 
or members objeGing, are to mention his or their 
objeaion to fome member of the committee, when 
the cafe is to Be reconfidered’; and’ if the objeGion 
an be removed, to the fatisfaction of the objector, 
fuch perfon'or perfons may ‘be“propofed a fecond tine 
*to theifociety; and if no new negative appears upon 
the ballot, he or they are to be then admitted members, 

ARTI- 


{ 127] 


~ : -— 


ARTICLE XxXI. 


No. member of the fociety is to acquaint any. One, 
either of his being propofed or chofen a member of the 
fociety, for this is to be done by the fecretary, or fome 

“other member of the committee appointed for it, as 
circumftances require. : 


ARTICLE Xx. 


No perfon once admitted into this fociety is to be 
removed out of it, but after mature .confideration. of 
the committee, and with the confent of the majority 
of the fociety ; and a perfon thus removed. not to be 
readmitted but by ballot, 


. ARTICLE XXII, 


WHEN any new members are admitted, the rules 
of the fociety are to be read to them, and each new 
member is to fubferibe them, 


ARTICLE XxXiv, 


Tre fociety may form new articles, which are cons 
fiftent with the tenor of the above articles and the 
well-being of the fociety, as circumftances may heres 


after require. 
AYR a EFt-C 14 SX ¥- 


Tue above rules are not to be altered but on mature 
deliberation, and ina meeting of the Society, and by 
majority of votes; and previous to any alteration a 
month’s notice fhall be given, expreffing the nature 
aud defizn of the alteration propofed to be made, 


PF: & Ne Je ey : 


| 
+) 


BOOKS PUBLISHED, 


RELATING TO THE 


UNITAS FRATRUM, or UNITED BRETHREN. 


“s HE Ancient and Modern Hiftory of the Bre- 

| -THREN, or a fuccin&t Narrative of the Proteftant 
Church of the Unirep Breturen, or Unitas Fra- 
TRUM, in the remoter, and particularly in the prefent cen- 
tury. Written in German, by David ( ranzz, Author of the 
Hiftory of GreENLAND; publifhed with fome additional 
Wotes, by Benjamin La Trobe, 1780. Price in boards 6s. 6d. 


2. An Exposttton oF Curistran DoeTrIne, 2 
taught in the Proteftant Church of the Unrrep Bre~- 
THREN, or Unitas FRATRUM. Written in German, by 
Auguft Gottlieb Spangenberg, with a Preface by Eenjamia La 
Trobe, 1784. Price in boards ¢s. 


3. The Hiftory of GREENLAND, containing a Defcrip+ 
tion of the Country and its Inhabitants, and particularly, 
a Relation of the Misston carried on above thirty Years 
by the Unitas Frarrum, at New Herrnbut and Lichtenfel¢ 
in that Country. By David Crantz. ‘Tranflated front the 
High Dutch. In two Volumes oétavo. Price in boards gs. 


4. Harmon of the Four Gosrets; or, the Hiftory of 
our Lord and Saviour Jesus Curist; in which every 
thing and cireumftance mentioned by the Four Evan- 
GELISTS, 18 brought into one narrative; fo that the reader 
has here collected together, in one feries, all that is recorded 
of the Acts of the Days of the Son of Man, in the very 
words of our Englih verfion. Price bound, as. 


gs A Summary of the Doctrine of Jesus Curist; 
to be ufed forthe Inftruction of Youth, in the Congrega- 
tions of the Unirep BretTuHREn, 1788. Price, half- 


bound, gil. 


6. A fuccin& View ofthe Missroms eftablithed among 
the Heathen by the Church of the Breruren, or Uniras 
Fratrum. By Benjamin La Jrobe. Price, ftitched, 6d. 


7. A brief Acconut of the Missron cftablifhed among 
the Esquimaux Inprans, on the Coat of Laprapor, 
ey the Church of the Bre :=N. Price, ftitched, 6d, 


ae 
® 


i 
1 
: 


