m 


nbn. Carter Groton. 


E 


e 


W 


ο... 


3 
Y 
k 
δα 
iva 
M 


IAM Sore m ο 


iT 


E 
Dy 


) 
aps Maa 


X 


ce x 


I 


enu 


nmm 


=<; 


ia i 


Mr ti itii - 
Es € M 


πε] 


RST FRU 


‘Converfion of (ome, 
Firft of the 4 Gonvi&ion of divers, of the Indians. 
ο, , Preparation of fundry | 


2, Of the progreffe of Learning, in the Colledge at 
CAMBRIDGE in CMaff/aenfers Bay. 


| WIT 
Divers other fpeciall Matters concerning that Cowstrey. 


Publi(hed by che inftant requeft of fundry Friends, who defire 
to be fatisfied in thefe points by many New-England Men 
who are here preient, and were eye or eare- 

witnefles of the fame. 


i Wbobatb defpi(edtbe Day of fmmall things. Zach. 4. 10, 


-- 
-N 


Ff the wert pave and upright, firely now be will awake for thee: -- Andthongh 
thy beginnings be fmall, thy latter end [bal] greatly encreafe. lob. 8 6,7. 


E US. 
κ αμ» 


LONDON, 


Printed by R. 0. and G. D. for Henry Overton, and ate to be 
fold at his Shop in Pepes-bead. 4 hey, 36 4.3 


΄ 


ο ο ο ed 


18, 

e x , 

DIE 
din nna Aber e Sg ο d mti e men mm 


μον. 
"x d 


4o0d01 


nt 


= I 


a m 


ai) 


NY 


&t 


* 
ue 
* 
qe 
o 


113 
xd 
v3 


£x 
X 


OPA Spans chee rant coco RERUM aot rae Pee 


Yu Cr.) JOHNCARTERBROWN : 


$54655504550609500959400059510064065450005406 
see re ο 38S. 


ih MO: C7 Ko Bs «S^ eie κ μα OE 
EB323335 38933323533 ROSSISIESIE 


ENGLAND 
"PIRSI FRULIS: 


(su Inrefpectof the Inpians, &c,. 


il 
Te 


wem He Lord, who ufeth nor to be wanting tothe 
Mage defires of his Servants, ashe hath not fruftrated 
HU the ends of our Tranitplanting in fundry other 
HA -re{pects ; fo neither in the giving fome light to 
Mees thofe poore /»4;j4»1 , who have ever fate 1n hellifh © 
€ XU darknefle, adoring the vell himfelfe for their 
BOE GOD: but hath given usíome teftimony of his 
gtaciousacceptanee of our poore enceavours towards them. and of 
our eroaties'to himfelfe for mercy upon thofe miferable Soules (the 
very Ruines of Mankind) there amongft us ; our very bowls yer- 
ning within usto fee them ‘goe downe to Hell by twarmcs wath- 
ο ιο eset queue v ie i 
, Wherefore we judged it our duty no longer to conceale but to de- 
clare (to'the praiíe'oF'his owe free grace) what fp! Fra he bah 
begun to’gather in amonett them, as‘aiure pledge (we are coi:fidcnt) 
of à greater Harveff in his owne time. And wond:r no: tha wee 
' mention nó more itifancesat prefent : but confid:r , Firtt thei 302 
finite diftance from Chriftianity. naving never been prepared there- 
utito by arly Civility at all.” Secondly . the difficulty of theit Tan. 
silage to us. and of ours to them terc being nd Rules το learne ci 
therby. "Thirdly, the divetlity of eh icone Language toit (te 
Nt i F39V ΜΟΙ 21A bog ΣΩ” | every 


seg 


E | : (2.) : 
every part of that Coüduéy Having itsown Dialect;dífferingmüch: — 


e their comming into the Gofpel 


trom the other ; all which tx omn I 
id hath done for fome of chem, we will 


the more flow. But what G 
declare. BLU LUE 
CM Ary years finceat Plimmouth Plantation, when the Chugh 

! did aft and pray for Raine 1n extreame Drought; it being 
a very hot and cleare tun-fhine day, all the tormer parc thereot; An 


_ingan ot good quality, being preietit, and Íieeing what they were a- 


bout; fell a wendring at them for praying for raine ina day {ο un- 
likely, when all Sunne and no Clouds appeared ; and thought that 
their God was not able to give Raine at iuch a cime as thac-: but this 
poore wretch feeing them ttill to continue 1n tüeir Prayers, and be- 
holding chat at laft che Clouds began to rife, and by that time they 
had ended their Duty, the Raine fell in a moft {weet , conftant , 
{oaking (howre. fell into wonderment-at the power that the Fnglifh 
had with their God, and the greatnefle and goodnefle of that God 
whom they ferved ; and. was £mitten with terror that he had abufed 
them and their God by his former hard thoughts of them ; and re- - 
folved from that day not to reft till he did know this great good Ged, 
and for that end to foríake the /*d:ans , and cleave to the Englifh > 
which he prefently did, and laboured by all publique and private 
meanes to {uck in more and more of theknowledge of God , and his. 
wayes, Andas he increated in knowledge fo 1n affc&ion and alío in 
his practice, reforming and, contormung himfelfe accordingly : and 
(though he was much Eenpred by inticéments, {coffes. and icornes 
from the /sdian:). yet, could henever be gotten fromthe E»g//P; nor. 
from fceking after their God, but died amongft them, leaving fome 
good hopes in their hearts, thathisfoulewenttoreft. 
2, Sagamore Lohn , Prince of Maffagne[ers , wasfrom our very ατα 
landing more courteous; ingenious, and tothe Englifh moreloving 
then others of them ; he defired to learne and fpeake our Language, 
and loved to imitate us in our behaviour and apparrell, and began to 
hearken after eur God and his wayes .. and would much commend. 
Eng ifh- men, and their God ; faying( Afmeh good men, much good God ). 
and being convinced that our condition and wayes were better farre. 


. then theirs. did refolve and promite to leave the /»4ia»:; and come. 


live with us ; but yet ETE downe by feare of the {coffes of the 124.-. 


ansshad not power to make good his purpofe ; yet went on.not with- 
| j | Qut. ' 
e 


ο πο or à " « 


(3-) 


-out ome trouble of mind , and fecret plucks of Confcience, asthe 


iequel declares : for being ftruck with death, feartully cryed out οἱ 


 humífeife that hz had not come to live with us, to have knowne our 


» God better : B» «ow ( faid he ) 4 muft die, tbe Goa of the Engli]b 15 
,, much angry mich me, and wi deftroy me; ah, Lwas affraid of the/coffes of 
o» theje wicked Indians ; yet my ( kilafball live with the Englith, and /earne 
,, IC hnew their Goa wien i am ácad ; lle give bim to 44r, Wilfon , 4144 
», much Good man, and much loved me: 10 fentfor Mr. fe» to come 
to him, andcommitted his onely Child to his care, and {0 did. 

3. Divers ot the /udiavs Chüidren ; Boyesand Girles we have re- 
ceived into our houfes, who are long fince civilized, and in tubj.¢ti- 
on to us, painfull and handy in their bufinefle, and can ipeak our ian- 
guage familiarly; divers oi whom can read Englifh, and begin to un- 
deritand 1n their meature, the grounds of Chriitian Keligion ; Lome 
of them areable to give us account of the Sermons they heare, and 


of the word read and expounded in our Families, and are convinced . 


of their finfull and miterable Eftates ; and affected with the tente ot 
Gods difpleafure, and che thoughts of Eternity, and will fometimes 
tremble and melt into teares at our opening and prefling the Word 


upon their Coníciences ; and as farre as we can difcerne, {ome ot 


them ufe to pray 1n fecreto and are much im love with us, and cannot. 


indure to returne any more to the κάναν. i 

Some ofthem will not be abtent from a Sermon or Family du- 
ties if they can help it; and we have knowne fome would ute to Weep 
and cry when detained by occafion from the Sermon. Ax 


pm. 


-. Others of them are very inquilitive after God and his wayes ud 


being themielves induftrious in their Calling, will much complaine 


- 9 


of other fervants idlenefle, and reprove them. 

One of them, who for fome mitdemeanour that laid him open to 
publique punifhment, ran away ; and beinggone, God {ο followed 
him, that of his owne accord he returned home; rendred himtelteto 


-Juftice, and was willing to fubmit himíclfe , though he might have 


eícaped. 


An Indian Maid at Salem, would often come from the Word. cry- 


ing out with abundance of teares ; concluding that the muft burne 
when fhe die, and would fay, fhe knew her felte naught {ος preient ; 


"and hke to be miferable for ever, unlefle free Grace fhould prevent 


it ; and after this erew very carefull of her carriage, proved induftri- 


ous in her placesand (ο continued. - | 
Pd ee ' : Another 


[inco ipee EU Mag ME DOM eS ESE DCR — : μον 
E eSI NRE Tits SSE eR es EN See Was SR a Ea M SS Ae AN ON MORE τον a Hisce sese Ts UN Re eic ft 


1 > j 


? 27. ΑΟ e os χααν 
μ.........-- 
(4-) 
& e: 


Another often frequenting the Houfe of one of the Minifters at 


Salem, would cell him the Story of the Bible, even to his admirati- 
on, and that he atzended upon the Word preached, and lovea ας: and 
how he could tell all the Commandements, and in parcicular each. 
Comman leinent by ic telfe, nd how he laboured to keep them all ; 
and yer tor all chis (faid he) | Me die, andwalke in fir. ] thatas. when 
Idie. [muftto Hell: [hat.M inifter asked him Why? he aniwered, 
becauíz I know not {ερ Chest, and pray'd him carnefliy to teach 
bum ef (href, andatter went out ainongtt the Indians , and cailed 
uponthem to put away all their wives fave onc,becaute it was a finne 
ag unit Englifh-inans Saviour. - fio : T 

, Another /;d:4^ comming by, and {eeing one of the Englith (who 

Was remote from our jurifdiction, pfophaning the Lords da y. by tel- 
ling ot a tree; faid to him, 5, Dee jws vor krow that this is the Lords day, 
In éa]aqujetus? mach machet man, that is Very wicked man, what, breake 
yon σος Day ? ; | ος κ 1 ii. Lic 
. The fame man comming into an houfe in thofe parts where 


i 


amun and his wate were chiding, and they bidding him fit downe 
he was welcome; he aniwered, » He wonde net [lay there, Goddid not 
dwell there, Hovamock, (that is the Dewill) was there, and fo departed. 

. Oneof the Sagamores, having complaint madeto him by fome of 
the Englith, thathis men did ule to kill Pigeons upon the Lords day, 

thereupon.forbad them to doe fo any more ; yet afterwards fome of 
them did actempt it, and climbing che high trees (u pon which Pige- 

ons in that Countrey ufe to make their nefts) one of them fell down 


from off the tres an brake his neck, and another fell downand brake 
fome of his limbs: thereu pon the Jagamere {ent two grave old men 
to proclaime 1t amongft his /rdians., that Rone of them fhould kill 
Pigeons upon the Sabboth day any more. —— | 
Another /sdiar hearing of thefame of ης Σά, and their God 
came trom a far to fce ihem , and füch was this mans love to the £v. 
{7 and rheir wayesafter he cameacquainted « ith them, that he la- 
Loured to transform him(elfe into the Exeli/b manners and practites, 
2* if he had becn an Englifh man indeed ; he would be called no more 
cy us A22: name, but would benamed "^am; he would not goe 
naked hike the Jvara-s, but cloathed juít as one ot our felves ; he ab- 
Tiofréd to dwell with the / "di^: any longer j. but forfaking all ‘his 
*^fands and Kindred dwelt wholly wath we; when he fate downe to 
tee with us, if thanks were given beforehe. cathe an; orf hedid-cat 


; UT 65.) 
by himifelfe , €ónftantly he would give thanks reverently and grave- 
ly, he trejucnted the word and family duties where he came, and gat 
à good mezfure of knowledge beycndordinary. being aman of 1η». 
gular puss, and would comp.aine that he knew not Curiftand with- 
out hui he laid. ali he did was nothing ; hee was {o zealous for the 
Lords day, thac (as 1t was obicrved) it ne daw any profaning it, he 
would rebuke them. and threaten them to carry them go the Govet- 
Dou B a sc 
— All which things weighed, wé dare not but hope ; that many of 
them; doe belong to the Kingdome of God ; and what further cime 
may. produce , we Jeave it to him that 1s excellent in Counífell , and 
wondertullin working. — | / 
4. There isalfo à Biackmoremaid, that hath long lived at Dorche- 
flerin New. England , unto whom God hath 1ο bletfed the publique 
and private means of Grace. that fhe 15 not only indued with a com- 
pecent meaíure of knowledge 1n the niyfteries of God. and convicti- 
on o£ her miferable eftate by finne; but hath alfo experience of a 
{faving work of grace in her heart, and a {weet favour ot Chrift brea- 
 thingin her;infomuch that her foule hath longed to enjoy Church- 
fellowship with the Saints there, and having propounded her defire 
tothe Elders of the:Church, atter fome triall of her taken in privates 
the was-callied before the whole Church, and there did make contet- 
fion of her knowledge inthe Mytteries of Chrift and of the work of 
‘Converfion- upon her Soule: Andatter that there was fach a tefti- 
mony given of her bla:neleffe and godly Coniveérfation, that fhe was 
_ .admitced a member by the joy nt content of the Church. with great | 
joy to-all their hearts. Since which time, we have heard her much (2 


‘admiring Gods free grace tofucha poore wretch as fhe was ; that p* 

s iusallherírindsandKindredfüllinthejr nne. fhould —— & 

cát an eye upon her ,. to make heramember of Chrift, andofthe^ — Wi 

Church alfo: and hath with teares exhorted fome othet of the s b 

draws thatlive with us to embrace /efus ( ?iff declaring how willing ig 

he would be to receive them. even afhehadreceived her. —— iz 

σε T helaftinftance we will give: fhall be of that famous Indian ‘hd 

_Weqiiufo, who was a Captaine, a proper man of perfon. and of a very i= 

- grave and fober {pirit); the Story of which comming to ourhands E 
very lately. was indeed the occafion of writing all the reft :. This. | 
man. afew yeates fince , fecing ‘and beholding the mighty power or | 
| — -@ed-in our Englith Forces, how they fell upon the Peq-irs, where: 4 
| me. | | divers — |i 
| | 


(6. 
divers hundreds of them were flaine inan houre: The Lord, asa 
God ot glory in great terrour did appeare unto the Soule and Cons 
icience of this poore Wretch, in that very ast ; and though before 
that cime he had low apprehentions of our God, having conceived 
hin zo be (as hefaid) buca Azuskerte God, or à God like unto à flye; 


$ D 


aiid as mzane thoughts of che Englifh that ferved this God; that they 


were lilly weake men ; yet from that time he was convinced and per- 
{waded that our God was a molt dreadtull God ; and that-one £s. 
£/i^ man by the help of his God was able to flay and put to flight an 
ured dre | eee ane Spi d LORI 
|; This conviction did purfueand follow him’ night and day, fo that 
he could have no teft or quiet becaufe hee was ignorant of the E»- 
gl.fl mans God: he went up and down bemoaning his condition, and 
hlling every place where he came with fighes and groanes.. . 
_ Atterward it pleated the Lord that fome’Engl/> (well acquainted | 
wich his Language) did meet with him ‘thereupon as a’ Hart pan- 
ting atrer the water Brookes, he enquired after God with fuch 1ncef- 
fanc diligence, that they were cont rained conftantly for his fatisfa- 
&ion to fpénd more then halfe the night in converfing with him. ' 
Afterwards he came to dwell amongft the Enelifh at Com-eftient, 
{till travelling with all his might, and lamenting after the Lord: his 
manner was to {mite his hand on his breaft , and to complaine fadly 
of his heart. faying 1t was mach machet, (that 1s very evil) and when 
any {pake with him, he would fay , equa, πο God, Wequalh κο knew 
(τή. Τε pleated the Lord, that inthe ufe of the meanes, he srew 
greatly in the knowl-dge of Chrift , and in the Principles of Religi- 
on, and became thorowly reformed according to his-light ,-hating. 
and loathing himfelfe. for his deareft finnes. which were efpecially 
theíe rwo laf and Revenge. this repentance for the former was te-. 
{tified by his temperance and abftinence from all occafions, or mat- 
ter of provocation thereunto. Secondly, by putting away all his 
Waves. faving the firft, to whom he had moft right. i 
His repentance for thelattep was teftified by an eminent degree of 
mecknefle and patience, that now; ifany did abufe him, he could lie 
downe at their feet, and if any did (mite him on the one cheeke ; he 
. would rather turne the other, than offend them : many trialls hee 
had from the Fzdians in this cafe. Thirdly, by going upand downe 


‘to thofe hee had offered violence or wrong unto; con effing it. and 


making reéftitution.. 


| Afterwards τν 


- (15) | 

τς Afterwards he went amongft the Indians, like that poore Woman 
of Samaria, proclaiming Chri, and telling them what a Treafure he 
had found. inftructing them in the knowledge of the true God: and 
this he did with a grave and ferious {pirit, warning them with all 
faithtullnetie to Hee trom the wrath to come ; by breaking off their 
finnes and wickednefle. | | 

This courte of his did fo difturb the Devill, that erelong fome of 
the Indians, whofe hearts Satan had filled.did fecretly give him poy- 
fon, which he tooke without fufpition : and when he lay upon his 
death bed, iome Indians who were by him, wifhed him according to 
the Indian manner, to fend for Pese (that 1s to fay) a Wizzard; he 
told them, Jf def Chriff fay that Wequalh [ball Irve, tbenWequab muff 
dive; tf Lefus Chrift fay, that Weque (bfbalidye, then Wegualh ws willing to dye, 
andill not lengthen emt bes life by any {uch Meanes, Betore he dyed, he 
did bequeath his Child to the godly care ot the Englith for education 


b: 


and inftruction, and fo yielded up his foule into € 274 his hands. - 


Icannot omit the teftimony of Mr: 94 a godly Minifter in the δα). | 


that wrote to his Friend in. Lozzez concerning this Story , his lines 
are {uli plain and pithy his words thefe, | 

Wequa]b tbe famous indian atthe Rivers mouth is dead, and certainlyra 
heaven. gloriaufly didthe Grace of Chrift Pise forth im bis conver [ation, 4 
yeare and a balfe before his death be knew Chrift; be toved Chrift, be prea- 
ched Chrijt up aud down, and then {uffered Martyrdome for ( brift; and when 
be dycd, be gave hes [onle to ( drift, axd bii ouly childte tbe Englifh, rejoycing 
sm ibis bope , that the childfhould krow more of Chrift then its poore Father 
ever did, 

Thus we have given youa little taft of the {princklings of Gods 
fpirit,upon a few indians, but one may eafily imagine, that here are 
not all that may be produced: tor it a very few ot us here prefent. 
. upon very fudden thoughts; have fnatcht up only fuch inttances 
which came at prefent to hand,you may conceive; that it all in our 
Plantations(which are farre and wide dhould fetthemfelves to bring 
1n the confluence of all their Obtervations together, much more 
mught be added. | 

We beleeve one mean amongft others, that hath thusfarre wonne 
thefe poore wretches. to looke after the Goipellshath been the deal- 
ings and carriages, which God hath guided the Enelifh in our Pa- 
tent, to exercife towardsthem: For, | 


(8) 
i. At our entrance upon the Land, it was not with violence and 
intrufion, but tree and taire, wich their confents and allowance the - 
chief Sagamores of ali that part ot the Countrey , encertaimimg us. — 
heartily, and profeffed we were all much welcome. - : ie 
2, When any of them had poffeflion of, or right unto any Land 
we were to plant upon, none were tuffered, (to our knowledge) to 
take one acre from them,but do ute to compound withthem to con- 
tent. - | : Z 
3. They have had juttice truly exercifed towards them in all other 
particularaéts; that as we expect right dealing trom them , in cate 
any of them fhall trefpatle us , we {end to their Sagamore, and he 
prefently rights us,cr elfe we f{ammon them to our Court to anfwet 
it; {ο 1{ any of our men offend them, and complaint and proofe be 
made toany of our Magittrates, or the publique Court(they know) 
they are dure to be righted co the utmott; by us. Aba | 
4. The humanity of the Englith towards them doth much gaine- 
upon them, we being generally wary, and tender in giving thent of- 
fenfive or harfh language, or carriage, but ufethem fairly and cour- 
teoufly,with loving termes. good looksand kind falutes. ον ο 
Thus they having firft a good efteem of our Perfons, ( fuch of 
them as God intends good unto ) are thé fooner brought to hearken 
to our words. and then to ferve our God : whetas on the contrary, 
the wicked; injurious and {candalous carriages of {ome other Plan- 
tations, have bin a mean to harden thofe poore wofull foules againft 
the Englith.and all Religion for their fakes;and feale them up under 
perdition. dp - 
Yet (mittake us not) we are wont to keep them at fucha diftance, 
(knowing they ferve the Devill and are led by him ) as not to 1m- 
bolden them too much, or truftthem too farre; though wedo them 
whatgood wecan. And che truth is, God hath fo kept them, (ex- 
cep.ing that act of the Pequiis. long fince, to fome few of our men) 
that we never found. any hurtfrom them, nor could cver proveany 
reall intentions of evillagainft us : And if there fhould befuch in- 
tentions and that they all fhould combine together againft us. with. 
all their ftrengch that they can raife, we fee no probable eround at 
all to feare any hurt from them. they being naked men, and the 
nutubcr of them that be amongft us net confiderable. | 
Let us hereg vea touch alf? of what God hath done and 1s further 
about to doe.to divers Plantations of the Englifh, which before that 
| time - 


time that God fent light into our coafts , wete almof ‘as darke and 
rude as the Indians chemiclves. / 

:. Firftat agamentnm (a Plantation out of our jurifdiction) to 
which one of our Preachers commung and labouring amonett thems 
wasa meanes under God , not only to iparkle heavenly knowledge 
and worke conviction and retormanion in divers of them ,. butcon- 
verfion alío to Chrift in ome ot chem, that blefle God to this day, 
that everhecametiuther. — | 

4. Thenatcer chat, at 24270 Plantation.which is an hundred mules 
from.us, divers of chat place comming often into our coalis and hear- 

-3ng the Word preached » and teeing Goas goings amon clt his people 
chere. being muca affected went home, and lamented amongit theit 
neighbours their own wotull condition, that lived like heath cus 
without the Gofpel, when others injoyed it in great plenty : hei ὃ- 
upon with joynt content two of their chiefe men were dent in all 
their names.earneltly to intreat us to fenda godly Miniltcr to preach 
the Word unto them; which was doe accordingly;not without good 
faccefleco the people there.and divers places about them. 

530 After this, cowards theend of latt Summer, foure more Planta- 
tions {ome of which are divers hundred miles;others of them many 
hundred leagues from our Plantation ) hearing of the goodnell of 
God to his people in our parts ; and of the light of the Gofpel there 
fhining; have done even as Jacob did in the Famine time, when he 
heard chere was breadfin Eeypr- he hafted away his Sonnes for Corn, 
that they migh: live and not die : in like manner three {everall. 

"Townsin gina asalfo 84762 dos, briflopher: and τεστ ll ot chem 
much about thefametime, asit they had known the minds of each a 
other did tend Letters and Meflengers,crying out unto us.as theman — E 


οἱ’ Macedonia to Paul, Come and belp ws and that with fuch earneft- — (12 
nefleas men hunger-ftarved and ready to die. cry tor bread; 1o they | je 


cry out unto us 1n the bowels of compasfion. for the Lord jefus {ας | 
to fend them fome helpe. They tellus infomeoftheir Lettersthat Ν 
from the one end ofthe Land to the other. there is none to break the Di 
- bread of hfe unto che bengry 5 and thote that fhould doeit, arefo vile. — ea 
that even drunkards and fwearers, cry fhame on them. Ms | 
Wehad thought (but only for the {wellingof our Difcouríc) t9 — | 
-havefet down their Letters at large; which they wroteto alour E 
- Churches, which fpakewith fuch ftrength of reafon and affection, | 
that when they were read in our άν άλλως prevailed wita 
2 : 2 : : us, 


(48) 
us.that for their necesfity.we {pared the bread from our own mouths 
to fave their lives, and fenttwo of our Mintfters tor the prefent to. 
Vargintssand when the Ships came away from them they lett them in 
{crious contultation. whom to give up to the worke ot Chrift in the 
other three places alfo. ! | 
. We heare moreover that the Indians themfelves in fome of the 
places named.did joyne with them in this their tuit. 3 

Now from what hath bin faid, fee the riches ot Gods free Grace 
in Chrift, tha: 1s willing to impart mercy even to the wortt of men, 
and tuch as are furtheft off, cry out with 24«/, On the depths, C6. and 
jet heaven and earth be filled with the glorious praifes of God tor 
the fame. 

And if uch as are afarre off, why fhould not we that are nearer 
pretie in for a fhare therin, and cry out, as Efaw did with teares to his 
tather,when he faw the blesfing going away to his younger brother, 
and himfelfe, like to lofe it: [ O5 my Father haji thon but one blefing, 
bleje me alfo, ever methy firft borue, bleffe me, oh my Father, ] Elte thete 
poore Indians will certainly rife up againft us ; and with greac bold-- 
nefie condemn us in the great day of our accompts , when many of 
us here under great light, fhall fee men come from the Eaft and from | 
the Welt, and fit down in the Kingdome ot God, and our felves catt 
out. | ος 

2. Let τηε world know, that God led not fo many thoufands of 
his people into the Wilderneffe. to fee a reed fhaken with the wind, 
but amongft many other ipeciall ends, this wasnone ot the leatt, to 
ipread the light of his bleifed Goipel, to iuch as never heard the 
found of it. To ftop the mouths of che profane that calumniate the 
work of God in our hands, and to fatishe the hearts of the Saints 
herin. that God had foie fpeciall tervice for his people there to doe, 
which in part already we begin to lee and wait u pon Divine Wifdome, 
to dilcover thore of his pleature herin, and o pon his Grace to effect, 
which web. Ίεονε in his tite he will fo doe; that men fhail Íeeand 
know the wifdome and power of God herin. He 

3. Shall we touch here upon that apprehenfion which many god- 
ly and wite have conceived. andthat from fome Scriptures compa- 
red, and from other grounds, and palaces of Providence colicéted 
that (asit'svery probable) God meanesto carry his Gotpel-wett- 
ward, in thefe latter times of the world; and have thought, asthe 
Sunne inthe afternoon of the day , fill declines more and moreto 


the 


alio. 


 ruineit: they blew our their lights and they burn ciearer: their 
- filencing Minifters have opened their mouths fo wide. as to found. 


the Weit,and then fets: {ο the Gofpel (that great light of the world) 
though it rofe in the Eaft, and in foriner ages, hath lightened 1€ with 
hisbeames; yet in the latter ages of the world will bend Wettward, 
and betoreits fettiny, brighten cheie parts, with his glorious luítre 


4. Sec how Gods wifdome produceth glorious effects, from un- 
likely meanes, and make ftregit works by crooked initrumenis : for 
who would have thought, that the chaling away hence fo many 
godly Minifters, fhould to farre have promoted the praites ot God, 
and íhould be a meane to {pread the Goipel, when they intended to 


out his glorious praiíes, to the uttermodt parts of the earth» fay with 
the Pialmult, The z rhe Lords doing. and it i5 marvels us iH ONY eyes. 

σ. Detpifenot the day of {mall things ; letnoneíay of us as thofe 
Ícoffers did of their bu1iding ?erujalcs, "Y bat will rhefe weak Lewes doe ? 
i learneto adore God in all his Providence, and wait to fee his 
eads. | 
. 6. Lendus, we befecch you ‘all you thatlove Ze») your prayers 
and helpe in heaven and. earth for the furtherance of this greac and 
glorious worke in our hands; great works need many hands, many. 
prayers. many teares: And defire the Lord to ttirre up the bowels of 
{ome godly minded, to pitty thofe poore Feachen that are bleeding. 
to death.to eternall death and co reach torth an hand of {ouie-mcrcy, 
to fave fome of them from the fire of hell by atfording tome means 
to maintain fome fit inftruments on purpoie to tpend their time, 
and give themíelves wholly to preach to thete poore wretches. 
that as the tender Samars:an did to the wounded man, they may 
picty them, and get them healed. that even their bowels may bleile 
taem in the day ot their vifitation , and Chrifts bowels retrethed by 
their love. may {er it on his own fcore, and pay them all againe in 
the day of their accompts. : | 


^ 


| P3 NEW 


- "n 3). 
ΑΦ ΦΑΜΕ: 


8 


m a quen rms ey σι ? νο jeter ae OATS Αν PENCE RS eR 
"mo c Imm een neces Kx Or E S pi SS Ga | 
τες gd E Ga Sse ccs $8sas ROSES: 
, t La Ahi tA EN TS. ae s r d c X. CY 
dcs yq € ὃν SE C» CS ES 
si dS ix o S Las: Es ς di. me PSs que Aah. bet 
At eo RO CTD ο ο CON SS 
yt) MOSM CORSE Sees De ERR 
ας ηταν Ssh Seey diis 


FI 
Un 
"^ 
Fri 
peces 
ον 
- 
=. 
| 
"d 


D 


Iniefpedt of the Colledge,and the. 


. | t "T 3 : 
proceedings of Learning therein. Lm 
Vogt Fter God had carried us fate to New. England , and wee 
Kya had builded our houfes, provided neccilarics for our 
SENSE liveli-hood,rear'd convenient places for Gods worship, 
S803" and tetled the Civill Government: One of the next 


po 


things we longed for. and looked after. was to advance Lear g. an 
perpetuae it to Polterity ; dreading to leave an illiterate Miniftery |. 
to the Churches, when our pretent Mir ifters fhall liem the Dutt. 
Andas wee were t'inking and coniuiting how to effect this great 
Work sit pleated God to für up the heart of one Mr. Harvard (a god- 
ly Gentleman. and a lover of Learning ; there living amongft us) to 
givethe one halte of his Eftate (it being in all about 17ο. |.) to- 
wards the erecting of a Colledg:. and all his Library: after him ano- 
ther gave 300. l.. others atier them caft in more, and the publique 
hand of the State added the reft : the Colledge-was. by common 
confent. appointed to be at Cambrsage, (a place very pleatant and ac» 
commodate andis called (according to the name of the firft foun-- 
der) Hart a: d Colleage. | | d 
The Edifice is v/ry faire and comely within and without, having 
in ita fpacious Hall ; ( where they daily meet at Common Le&ures) 


Excrcites, and alarge Library with tome Bookes to it, the gittsof — 
| | ἀϊνετίε - 


(13) 


diverfe of our friends, their Chambers and ftucies alfo fitted for,and : 


potlcíled by the Students; and all other room:s of Ofiice necctlary: 
and convenient, with all needtull Otfices thereto belonging: Aud Ly 
the fide of che Colledge a faire Grammar Schoole for «he craming Up 
of young Schollars, and fitting of them for Asacemicai Learning chat 
fill as chey are judged ripe, chey may be received into the Coilcdge 
of this Schoole: Matter Corler isthe Mr. who hath very well ap- 
proved himícltc for his abilities dexterity and painfulnefie1n ccach- 
-1ng and education of the youth under him. | 
Over the Colledge is matter Durer placed, as Prefident, a learned 
conicionable andiaduftricus man, who hath fo trained up, his 
Pupills in the tongues and Aris , and {ο featoned them with the 
principles of Divini. y and Chrittianity. thac we have to our great 
comfort. (and in truth) beyond our hopes: beheld their progrefle in 
^ "Learningand godlinefie aito : the former of thefe hach appeared in 
their publi. ue declamations in Late and Greeke ,and Difputations 
Logicall and Philolophicail, which they have beene wonted(befides 
their ordinary Exercites in the Colledg -Hall) 1n the audience of 
the Magiftrates, Minifters. and other Scholl:ts» for the prob: tion 
oftheir growch in Learning, upon fetdayes, conitantly once every 
moneth to make and uphold: The lacter hath been menifefted in 
. fandry of them, by the favoury breathings oftheir Spiritsin their 
sodly converiation: Infomuch that we are confident. if thefc early 
bloffomes may b: cherifhed and warmed with the influence of the 
friends of Learning, and lovers of this pious worke, they will by the 
help of God. come to happy maturity inafhort time. — | 
- Over the Colledge are twelve Ovcrfeers chofen by the general 


Court. fix of them are of che Magiftrat: ssthe other fix of the Mini- 


fters, whoare to promote the beft good of it. arid (having a power-of ε 


- influence inzo all perfons in it are to ice that every one be diligent 
and proficient in his proper place. 
| | μα. » 
2. Rules,ana Precepts that ereob [cr d in tbe Colledge. 


HN V 7 Henany Schollar is able to underftand 72/5. or fuch like 
/ WM clasficall Latine Author ex rempore, and make and fpeakc 


— true Latine in Verfe and Prote. fuam: ait Mare; And decline per- 


{εν the Paradigim' of Neuxc: and Verber in the Greek tongue: Let 
deos Pid. : B. / Yu ΜΜΕ ΤΕ η 9 uiuos Carat 
. him chen and not before be capable of adinisiion into the Colledge. 


τη Ετος Ετος" κι ως τος κ ο, κατα RTE ap ές RS AES φως» 
—— “ 2 στη ο Έλορ ο νο οι μιας 


———————————— 


(22) ; | 

2. Letevery Student be plainly inftru&ed ; and earneftly preffzd 
to confider well, the maine end of his life and ftudies 18. to know 
G o4 andl e(us ί rift which 1s eternal Life, Joh. πολ. and therefore to. 
lay (r+? 1n the bottome, as the only foundation of ali found know- 
ledgeand Learning. | | 

And ieeing the Lord only giveth wifedome, Let every one feri- 
oufly fet himtelfe by prayer in fecret to feeke it of him Prov 2,5. 

3. Every one fhall fo exercile himíelfe in reading che Scriptures 
twice a day, that he fhall be ready to give fuch an account of his pro- 
ficiency therein, both in Theoretricall obfervations of the Language, 
and Logick, and in Practical and {pirituall truths, as his Tutor shall 
require. according to his ability ; 1ecing the entrance of the word gsvech 
light, st giv th ueaerftandimg to the fimple, Pfalm. I19.130. 

.4 Thatthey efhewing all profanaz0n of Gods Name, Attri- 
bu es, Word. Ordinances, and times of Worthip, doe ftudie with 
good conicience, caretully to retaine God, and the love of his truth 
in heir mindes: elíelet them know, that (nothwithftanding their 
Learning) God may give them up tofrosg defnfions, and in the end 
tc arvprovate minde,2 | Πεί. 2. 11 12. Rom.1. 28 

s. "Thatthey ftudioufly redeemethe time; obferve the generall 
houres appointed for all the Students, and the {peciall houres for 
their owne (7f; : and then diligently attend the Lectures, without 
any difturbance by word or gefture. And it in any thing they doubt, | 
they fhall enquire. as ot their fcllowes. 1o, (in cafe ot Ne» farisfacti- - 
ox) modettly of ther Tutors. | 

6. Nonefhallunder any pretence whatfoever. frequent thecom- 


pany and fociety of {uch men as lead an unfit, and diflolute lite. 


Nor fhall any without his Tutors leave , or (in his ablence) the 
call of Parents or Guardians, goe abroad to other Townes. 


573 _ Every Schollar fhall be prefenc in his Tutors chamber at the 


ach. houre in the morning, immediately after the found of the 
Bell.at his opening the Scripture and prayer, {ο alfoat the sch. 
houreat night, and then give account ot his owne private read- 
ing, asatorelaid in Particular the third, and conítantiy attend Le- 
tures in the Fall at the houres appointed ? But if any (without 
neceflary impediment) thall abíent himfelt from prayer or Le@ures, 
he fhall bee lyable to Admonition, if he offend above once a weeke. 
: 8. -Ifany Schollar fhall be found to tranfgrefle any of the Lawes 
of God, or the Schoole, after twice Admonition, he fhall be lyable, 

| | “aif 


vx Pete κοκ ο ci, Di Sere eer it La 
ad T 


ος ορ 


if not adults, to corte&tion; if adwisns, his ndme:fhallbe αἴγσα αρ to 


the Overfeers of the Colledge, that he may -bee adnionithed at the. 


publick monethly A&. 


3. The times and order of their Studies, unleffe experi- 
e venmcefballfbew caufe to altey. 


TS fecond and third day of the weeke, read Le@ures, as follow- 
eth. : 


S 'Tothefirft yeare at 8th. of the clock iti the morning 29646, the 


fir chree quarters, PAyfieks the laft quartet. 


73 
177 


_ To the fecond yeare, at the gth.houre, £zbickr and Po/ticksat con-- 
" venient diftances of time. 


/ 


- Tothe third yeare at the roth. Avithmetick and Geometry,the three 
firft quarters, Affresemy the laft. 3 
| tyi db ftornoone, 


The firít yeare difputes at thefecond houre. 


τον The ad. yeare at the 3d. houre. 


The sd. yeareat the 4th. every one in his Art. 
T The 4th, dayreads Greeke, 
. To the firft yeare the &t)msologie and Systax at theeigth houre. 
""Tothe zd. at the oth. houre, Profedia and Draleits , 
Mite ft : x Afterncone, — 
‘The firft yeare at od. houre practice the precepts of Grammar in 
fuch Authors as have variety of words. 
e 2d. yeareat 3d. houre practice in Peéfy, Nonnus, Duport,or the 
HR mpi | 
"The sd. yeare perfe& their Theory before noone, and exercife 577r, 
Compofition, Imitation, Epitome, both in Profe and Verfe, afternoone. 
d -— The fift dayreads Hebrew, andthe Eafterne Tongues, — 
Grammar to the firft yeare houre the 8th, ^i 
Tothe2d. Chaldze at the oth. houre. 
— "Tothe 3d: Syriack atthe roth. houre. 
T Afternoone, 
* The firtt yeare practice in the Bible at the ad. houre. 
"T head. in Ezra and Danel/at the 3d. houre. 
"The 3d. at the 4th. houre in Trefins New Teftainents 
ο The 6th, day reads Rhetorick to all at the 8rb, boure. 


| Declamation at the 9th. So etree that every Scholler may de- 


: * clatine 


eS SAE ESS Seep Saas e neta te pego ens 


Dicis 


T 


(18) IVO i 5 


claime onee a moneth. The reft of the day varat Rbetoricis fl udis; 
The 7th. day reads Divinity Catechetscall at tbe 8:b, houre, (/emmon places’ 


at the 9th, bone, vA fiernoone, 

The firft houre reads hiftory in the Winter, 

The nature of plantsin the Summer... e S 

The fumme of every Lecture fhall be examined, before the new. 
Lecture be read. j | | , 

Every Schollar; that on proofe is found able to read the Originalls* 
ofthe U/dand New T'effamest into the Latine tongue, and torelolve - 
them Legiealy ; withall being of godly life and:converfation; And at 
any publick A& hath che A pprobation of the Overteersiand Mafter- 
ofthe Colledge, is fit to bedignrfiéd with his-firft Degree. 

Every Schollar that giveth up in writing a Syffem , ot. Syzepfes, or: 
fumme of Legick, Naturall and Moral Phylofop4y, Arishmerich, Geo- 
suetry and Aftrexcmy : and is ready to defend his 1; hefes or pofitions :: 
withall {killed in the Originallsasabovefaid:and of godly lite & σοι 
verfation : and fo approved by the Overfeers and Mafter ofthe Col. - 
ledge, at any publique 44, 1s fic to be dignified with his 2d. Degree. 


s 


4. The manner of the late Commencement, expreffed in. — 
a Leiter [.mt ocoer from tbe Go-vernour, and di ver[e 
of the Mintsters, their own wordstbefe.- ον - 


- trained upin Univerfity-Learning (fer their-ripening inthe knows 
ledge ofthe Tongues, and Arts) and are. apprved for their manners. 
asthey bave kept their publick Adis informer yeares, our [clues being prefent, 
at them; fo have they lately kept two felemne Ads -for their Commencement, 
when the Governonr, Magiftrates, andthe ο 1 from all parts , with 
allforts of Schollars, and oibers im great numbers were prefent, and did heare 
thesr Exercifes; which were Latine and Grecke Ovations , and Declamati. 
«μαμά Hebrew Analafis,Grammatigall,Legicall Gr Kbetericallof tbe-P(alem:: 
Andtheir AnfwersandDifpusationsin Logical, Ethical, ! bj ficall and Me, 
tapbyficall Oueflsons; ard fo were found worthy of the fir? degree, (common. 
ly called Batche'our ) pro more Academiarum in Anglia : Being firft pre... 
fented by tbe Prefident vo the Magifrates and Munters. and by him, upon 
ahesr A pprobation, folemuly adunitied mota the {ame degree, and.a Beoke of 
E ος TEES nts 


T H£s tudents of ihe firft Clashes that bave beene tbefe foure yeeres 


ποτ ας ool heey Sheree wee SASS Ren ΡΑΣ PATNA ADM CK SEE EEE VUES S ειν πρ tne seen cessa ET ETS 


μον (7) 

‘Arts delivered into cach of their hands, and power giventhémtorcad Le. , 
ντε inthe Hall προ» any of the Arts, when they [bal be therennto called, and 
a liberty of fiudying inthe Library, | | 

All things in tbe Colledge are at pre[eut ,. like ud proceed even as wee cam 
wilh, may it but pleale tbe Lord to gee on with his bleffing iw C hrifi, and fie 
ap the hearts of his faithful, and able Servants inowr owne Native Coun. 
try, and bere (as be hash gracton(ly begun) ro advance this Honorable and 
moft bopefull worke. The beginnings whereof andprogreffe hitherto ( genc- 
rally) doe fill our hearts with comfors, aud rai[e them up te mach more expe- 
Etation, of the Lords goodné ffe for hereafter, forthe good of poperity, and the 
Churches of Chril Iefus, —— | | | 


oB.os Ton inNewengand, . ^" $- 
οι September tbea6.  . Dd 
hate Ó 4 Ze αἱ ή, Your very loving 


PM; A IX : j A a aun - rr : ft i d ἂν 
 sbetsi i soub O8CL chp ehIWGG G20 | rienas; Qe 


... ACopieof the Queftions given and maintained bythe — 7 

| Commeucers i their publick Aas, printec in (Lam- = 
bridge in New:England,-and reprinted here verbatim, i: 
asfolloweth. .. 0) tdi | 


+ & 
δν ]E X0»1'*3 | | ae 
i a4 JN . (| αι οι 
pee PO μμ. 
: i 


|o 


C2  SRECTATISSIMIS 


Tw ma ARA so cm 


trisfitnis Eximia 


| 

| TOREM CU tales δη, eer. 

1 Nec non Reverendis picouliimifque viris Jeasoi Cortane, loan, VÉ'tlfono, 
: | I Joan, Davengort , Tho. Weldo, 4 ingens Peiro , Tho. Shepard, Colleeij 

| 


| Fi arvarde: (is nov. Canrab-, infpéttoribus fide Lid 1 1mM1s, cexterifq; 
| Magift:arbus, & Ecciefiarum cjuldem Colonize Pref- 
ες oy i 


Wily "Ibyüris vigilanuffimis «5 s © 
Has Uhefes Philologicas,& Philofophicas.quas Deo duce. Prafide - 
Henrico Dwzfiero palam pro virili propugnare conabuntur.(ho- 
noris & .blervantie gratia ) dicant copiecranique in arubus is ή 
bberalibus initiati Adolefcentes, 


Benjamin Weodhiigiut, | Henricus Saltonflall, | Nathaniel Bruflerus. 
Georgi Downingus, "| Tübauses DWhlews, — | Samuel Belingbamus, 
Gu lieimus Hubbatdut. | lobanzesWl(onts,  \Tobias Bernards. 

PREM oet thom ae MA S 
5433.10 3190 2 Aa, 


AS Beyeiuo.suQ οὐ to sie 
gos hilton. °° 
CGRAMMATICAS: 0s 


β Τα ‘ 

ves mguarum Scientia eft utiliffima. — (0277010 2B 

| Licere non exprimunt quantum vocis Organa efferunt. 
| 3- Eiwbrea eft Linguarum Mater. | | 
| 4. Conlonantes & vocales Hebreorum funt coetanese. 
| 5. Punctationes chat: phace {yllabam proprie non efficiunt. 
| 6, oo giae Graeca eft.copiolifiima, 
I 7. Li eva G-eca elt ad accentus pronüntianda, 
i 8. Lingua Lana eft elequentifluma. | 


ε ® 
£i LT iat iem rt e r 


RHETO- 


- 4. Oratoris eft celare Artem. 


n E 
wf awe ο ον uil 


7 TOT 
Gr MIC aan RHETORICA Ss. 
RSS fpecie differta Logica. 


= i 
* 


In Elocutione perfpicuitati cedit ornatus, ornatui copia. 
3. A&io primas tenet in pronuntiotione. | 


“LOGICAS. 
bp non lunt extra intellectum. 
AOmnia Argumenta funt relata. TAREA ; 
3. Caula fixe qua ve» non eft peculiaris caufa a quatuor teliquis gene- 
..*.. ralibus, iion οι d ) | 
4. Caufa ὃς Effe&us funt fimul tempore. 
> §- :Diffentaneafunt equenota. -.— 
6. Cohtrarictas eft tancum inter duo, 
7. Sublato relato tollitur correlatum. : 
8, Genus perfectum equaliter communicatur fpeciebus, 
9. Teftimonium valet quantum teftis, $e JN 
το. Elenchorum doctrina in Logica non eft neceflaria. 
11. Axioma contingens eft, quod ita verum eft, ut aliquando falfum 
effe poflit. | ΝΕ Tan 
12. Praecepta Artium debent effe. κά] παήθ-, κα ἁν]ὸν tad ore 


D 


" 


Φχώ TOV, 


αλλ ο € ae ει ETHICA $. 

"(3 Hilofophia practica eft eruditions meta 

eo. AQio virtutis habitum anteccllit. 

"$3 Voluntas eft virtutis morali: {ubjectum. ! ) 
ode Voluntas eft formaliter libera. 

ο Prudgniua virtutum difficillima. | 

^6. Pruden ια eft virus intcliectualis & moralis. 

2 d uftitia mater ou nium virtutum. —, 

viia Mors potiusdubeunda cuam aliquid culpe perpetrandum. | 
bes Non sgijutte agic n11 gm libens.cgat. | 
4:36 Mentiri nee A | Vertimu d it i i: | 
. xri. Juveniinodeftia 1uiumuim Oranmentum. peak 
(Aa. Juvens | ΡΗΥς1. 


í 


PEN Τὰ. 

C Qype naturale mobile tt fübjctani Phifles, (50501 5) 

AN» Materia fccunda non potett exilterefine forma, ^^^ E 

3. Borma eft accidens... 7? FADUM μμ μμ κ 

-4. Unius τεί non eft nifi unica forma-conftreuttvae 77 “4+ 

s. Forma eft principium.imndividuationis. 
6. Privatio non eft principiuin i1nternüm. 


7. Ex meris accidentibusinon ο ο ο. 
8. (Quicquid movetur ab alio movetur. - £4 6 sns Lee 
79. .In omni motu movens fimül eftcum mobili: - ; ^ - 0 2 


li 1ο. Ceclum i0n. movetur ab intelligentijs. | o e4Udlint 
η 1r. Non dantur orbes in θείου 3 1260 20012017182 22 SLED ue 
Γι 12. Quodlibet Elementum habet unaniex Ρις qualitatibus fibi 
| maximé propriath. ... «O09 αμ dos eoda Ee d ELO. -. 9 
| 1 3. Putredo 1n humido fit acalore externo.- 5 ο dud 


eJ | | 14. Anima noni fitex traduce: » Q2 1 d Sos {η ii Iq 2011 o oO 
σι. 15+ Vehemens fentibiledeftruitfenfumes > i2 061 susa T νο 
? oe ante oils 1 ΝΑ ΕΙΓΙΑΙΡ BEES iA Scisaos siGopEA x 

». WI m v, Y, Mr 
" Mneenseftbonum.! — nc OMA NM CO 
p 1 Omne creatum eft concretum. ^ ον CUPS LI YR Lar 


NM 3. Ouicquid eternum idem & immeníum. : 
i | -4..Bonuim Metaphyficum non fuícipit gradus. 


E . Thus farre hath the good hand of God favoured our beginnings : 
| fee whether he hath not engaged us to wait ftill‘upon his goodneffe 
E tor the future, by fuch further remarkable paflages of his providence 
: toour Plantation ‘in fuch thingsasthefe : _ ilies EM 

| I. In {weeping away ereat multitudes of the Natives by the fmall 

| In Pox, a littlebefore we went thither, that he might make room'for 
^ IN aa us there. "EN e ορ ο LO. UTR MN 
-— IM 2. In giving fuch merveilous fafe Paflage from firítto laft, tofo 
v nm many thoufands that went thither, the like hath hardly been ever 

met .  - obferved in any Sea-voyages. Or Po. 
| |. 3. In blesfing us generally with health andftrength , as much as 
| ever (we might truly fay) more then ever m our Native Land;many 


al that were tender and fickly here, are ftronger and heartier there. 
iM That wheras diverfe other Plantations have "been the graves of xr 
ada ng μμ u Inha 


Inhabitants,and their numbers much decreafed : God hath fo prof- 


that time not any unfound, untavourie and giddie fancie have dared. L | 

to lift up his head, or abide thelight amongít us. IH 
| | | 

fhort time amongft us having planted 5o. Townes and Villages;budt . EN 


. charges.no publique hand reaching out any helpe: having comfort- - 


jnfomuch, that all kinds of Flefh, amongft the reft, tore of Veniton | 


E 
a 

Sa 
c E | 


21.) ας 


peredthe climate tous, that ourbodies are hailer, and Children 
there born ttrong-r,wherby our. number ss ex ceedingly increaied. 

.4- In giving us {uch peace and treedome trom enemies, when al- 
molt ali che world is on a fire that(excepting that fhort trouble with . 
the Pequits) wenever heard of any ound of Warres to this day. And 
in that Watre which we mad: againit them,Gods hand from heaven 
was1o manifelted, that a very tew of our.men, ina fhort time, pur(ü- HN. 
ed through the Wildernefle, flew and took pritoners about 1400-0 | RB 
them, even all they could find, to the great terrour and amazement. m 
ofall the Indians to this day : fo that the name of the Pequits (as of 
Amateck-) 19 blotted out from under heaven,there being not one that - 
is,or, (at leait)dare call himtelte a Pequit. 3 

s. In fubduing thofe erronious opinions cerryed over from hence : 
oy fomeof the Patlengers, which tora time intefted our Churches» 
peace but (through the goodnetle of God) by conference preaching,: 
a generall aflembly of Icarned men, Magiftrates timely care; and 
lattly. by Gods own hand from heaven, in moft remarkable ftroaks : 
upon fome of the chief fomenters of them; thematter cameto {uch ; 
an happieconclufion, thatmott of the feduced came humbly and 
confetled their Errours in our publique Aflemblics and abide to this 
day conftant in the Truth; the reft&tiat remained obftinate)findineg . 
no fit market there to vent. their wares, departed from usto an.Iland - 
farre off; tome ot whom alto fince that time, have repented and re- 
tuined'to us, and are received againe into our bofomes.: And from . 


E ER ee a 


9 


6. In fettling and bringing civil matters to fuch a:maturity ina : 


30.0r 40.Churches, and more Minifters houfes;a Caftle;a Colledge, - 
Prifons.Forts.Cartwaies, Caufies many,and all thefe upon our owne ID | 


able Houfes, Gardens, Orchards, Grounds fenced, Corne fields &c. 
and fuch a forme and face of a Common wealth appearing 1n all che - 


Plantation; that Strangers from other-parts, feemghowmuchis ME. 


dene in fo few yeares, have wondred at Gods blesfing on our indea- l 
VOUTS, vatis SU 1 | Y PE j I 

7. In giving fuch plenty of all manner of Food in a Wildernefle | 
| 
| 
| 


a 


iN. 


- 


(52 th be ie ! 
án its feafon. Eifhiboth from Sea and Freth water. Fowle of all kinidsc? 
wild.& tame ;ftore of Whit-Meale,together with all forts of Englifh: ^ 
Graine, aíwell as Indian, are plentifull. amongft us ; as alfo Rootess  ; 
Herbs and Fruit, which being better digetted by the Sun, are {ας 
more faire.pleafanrand wholtome then here... | X 


;8. In proipering Elempe and: Flaxe. {ο well, that its frequeritly:; 
{owen {pun, and woven intolinnen Cloath : (and in a fhort time; 
may fervefor Cordage) and fo with Cotton-wooll, (which we may . 
baveatvery reafonablerates from the ands) and our linnen Yarne; . 
we:can make Dimittees and Fuftions for cur Summicr cloathings. ; 
And having a matter of a 1000. Sheep, which profper well; to begs 
withall, ina competent time we hope to have wollen Cloath there 
made. And greatand {mall Cattel, being now very frequently killd: : 
for food; their skins willafford us Leather for bootsand Shoes; and 
fe ules: fo that God isleading us by the hand into away of cloa« .- 
thing. Hoy ve à Sd: dan d ned 

9. In affording us many materialls, (which in part already are.and : 
will in time further be improved)tor Staple commodities, to fupply | 
all other defects: As | ditm nean 


p Furres, Bever, Otter, Xe. Canes te hs Heelys 
2. Clapboord.Hoops,Pipeftaves, Matts, | | Vu 
- 45 Englith Wheat and other graine for. Spaine and Welt Indies; 
-andallother provifions for Victualling ot Shippes ον 
4. Fith,as Cod, Haddock, Herrings, Mackerill, Bafle,Sturgeons ; 
Seales, Whales,Sea-horfe. H ua ion rit 35ds 
«. Oyle of tundry forts,of Whale;Sea-horíe, &c. e vs 
- "€. Pitchand Tarre, Rofen and Turpentine, having Pines, 
- Spruce, and Pitch-treesin our Countrey to maketheíeon. |—— 
7. Hempeand Elaxe. JU dos T eR ο. 
-. 8 Minerallsdifeovered and proved; as of Iron in fundry places; 
ον Black-lead (many other in hopes) for the improving of which, νε. 
are now about to carry over Servants and inftraments with us, 
ο. (Befides many Boates:ShallopssHows, Lighters, Pimmaces): 
we are in away of building Shippes.of an 100,200,300.400.tunne, 
five of them arealready at Sca;many more in handat this prefent, 
we being much, incouraged herein by reafon of the plenty. and ; 
i) : excelleucie of our Timber for that urpofe, and feeingall the 


matcrialls will be had there in fhort time. 


—.3oJÍn 


s αν BRE ae | 
70. In giving of fuch Magiftrates asare all of them godly men,and 
members of our € hutches, who countenance chote that be good.and 


punith evill doers, that a vile períon dares not litt up bis head; nor 


need a godly man to hang'it down, that (:0 Gods praile beat tpoken) 

one may live there froin yeare to yeare, and not {ες a drunkard,heare 
κ I vig : 3 v 

an oath.or mect a bege. r. Now where linne 15 punifhed, and judge- 


- ment executed, God 1s won: to blefig chat place. and procectit, fa^ — 


106.30.ler.5. 1,70f.7.25 with &.1.¢ cowta €j4.20 21. j 
— r1. In ftoring that place with very many ot his own people, and 


diverf: of them emincne for godlinefie.. Now where his people are, . 


there is lus preterice, and Pronmule to be 14 the midacft of them, & mighty 
Gedro (ave, and io joy ever them wich jinging, Zeph.3.17. 

7 xa. Above all our other blesiings, in planting #2 owe Name, and 
preciow Ordinance among us ; (weipeak τε humbly, and in his teare) 
- our indeavour is to haveali his own Infticutions, and no more then 
‘his own and all thotein their native fimplicity without any humane 
dresfings; having a liberty to injoyall that God Commands, and yet 
urgedto nothing more then he Commands. Now Were foever he 
records bis Name,ibiber be will come aud blejfe, EX-20.24- 

Which promaiie he eath already performed to very many foules.in 
"their effectuall converfion to Chritt, and the edification of othersin 
- their holy Faith; who daily blefle God chat ever he carried them 1n- 
to thofe paris. NU WE | ; 

All which blesfings named welooke upon,as an earneft-penny of 
-moretocome. Itwefeeke his face, and ferve his Providence; wee 
“have no caute to doubt, that he for his part will faile to make {eato- 
‘nable fuppli:s unto us. | 


i. By fome meanes to carry on to their perfection our ftaple - 


trades begun. jo ee 
2, By Additions of Ammunition and Powder. 
3. By maintenance of Schooles of Learning eipecially the Cole 
ον ledge, as alfo additions of building to it and turnifhing the Library. 
4. By ftirring up fome well-minded to cloath and trantport o- 
ver poo children Boyesand Girles, which may be a great mercy 
to their bodies and foules. and a help tous, they being fuper abun- 
‘dant here, and we wanting hands to carry on our trades, manutfa= 
@ure and husbandry there. .__ | oe hare rit 
τς. Byftirringup fome to thew mercy to the ei, in affording 
maintenance to fome of our godly active young Schollars, there S 
ef TM make 


(24) HERUM 
_ make it their worke to ftudie their Language converfe with then 
and carry light amongft them, that fo the Gofpell might be fj pread 

: anto thote darke parts of the world. | E 
O5. But all your own coft and ours alfo will be loft, becaufe there 
can be no fubtiftence there for any long time. For, 
1. Yourgroundisbarren, — | 
eAnjw. 1. if you fhould {ee our goodly Corne-fields, necre har- 
velt. vOu would'anfwer this your felte. Secondly, how could it be 
thin, that we fhould have £ag/» Wheat at 4.s.perbuthell, and indy. 
4^ at 2.5. and this not only for ready money,but in way of exchange. 
| Thirdly, that in a wildernefle 1n 10 few yeares, ze fhould have corne 
aM enough for our felves and our friends that come over, and much to 
MNT Ípare. 
M : 2 Ο6/. Yourground will not continve above 3: OF 4 yeares to 
| beare corne. sik | 4 
430, Our ground bath been fowne and planted with cornethefe — . 
| 7. 10- '2. yeares already by our felves; and (which is morethancan - 
I - be aid here of Exgli/b Yand(never yet fummer tild- but have borne  -. 
i corno, every yeare fince we fitft went , arid the fame ground planted 
EA as long by the /w4ian: before ,and yet have good crops u pon it ftill, 
m and 1s like to continue as ever : But this is,(as many other flanders 4 
oi againft that good Land) againft all fenfe, realon atid experience. | 
EB 3. Obj. But you have no money there. j | | 
AN _ Anfw. Te’s true we have not much,th ough fome there is, but wee 
having thofe fta ple commodivies named, they will (till as they 
are 1mproved/tetch money from other parts. Ships, Fifh, Iron, | 
ipeftaves, Corn, Bever, Oyle, &c. will hel pus with money and o- 
| ther things alfo. MOS | | 
2 2. Litd: money is raifed in coyne in England, how then comes it 
Er | | to abound, but by this meane ? : 


- 


| 18 3. We can trade amongft cur felves by way of exchange, one com- | 

a a" modity for another.and fo doe utually. - d D 

"- . 4. O67. Youarelike towantclothes hereafter. ^ ^ ^ ^ No 
cM "fv. 1. Linnen Fuftians. Dimettecs we are making already. — | 
cy TN Secondly, Sheepeare comming onfor woollen cloath. Iairdly. 18 E 

>) INI ineane time we may be fupplied by way of trade to other parts. 4th. | 
2 Cordevant; Deere, Seale; and Moofe Skins (which are beafks as big 

B Oxen, and their skins are buffe) are there to be had plentifully , 

E bich will help this way efpecially for fervants doathing. — 


- 


5.06, 


poe ^ a [ / " 


Sine eRe TOME ορμής της 
Pash EUNTES ώμο 


"re daa Ww ^. (25) | 
— s. Obj, YourWinptersare cold. — : Vue, ME 
ο δν. True, at fomeuines when the wind blowes ftrong at 
INor-Weff : but it holds not long together, and then it ufeth to be ve- 
ry moderate tor a good pace. Firtt the coldnelle being net naturall 
(that place being 42. degrees) butaccidentall. Secondiy, The cold: 
. there i5 no impediment to health, but very wholtometor our bo. 
" dies, infomuch that all forts generally, weako and itrong had icarce 
| ever {uch meature of health 1n all their lives as there. . Thirdly, Its 
“nota moilt and foggie cold, as in He/ana,and ome parts of Exgiand, 
"but bright;cleare, and faire wether, that. men are feldome troubled 
- ἀπ Winter with coughes and Rheumes. Fourthly. ἐς hinders not our 
imployment, for people are able to worke or travell uíually all the 
Winter long; fo there is no loffe ot time, fimply in refpect of the 
- cold. Fiftly good fires(wood being {ο plenzifull )will make amends. 
-— 6. Ο6. Many are growne weaker in their eftates fince they went 
“over. ou wx 
Asf. Are not diveríein Lerdes broken in their Eftates ? and many 
in England are growne poore, andthoufands goe a begging (yet wee 
" never faw a beggar there) and will any taxe the City or Kingdome, n 
"and fay they areunfubfittable places? — ! ^. | 
“Secondly their Eftates now lie in houfes, Lands, Horfes, Cattel, | 
"Corne,&c.though they have not fo much money as they, had here; 
and fo cannot make appearance of their wealth to thofe in Exg/and, i 
yet they have ie ftill; tothat their Eftates are not loft.but changed. E 
3. Some mens Eftates may be weaker through great and vatt com- | ON 
- mon chargés,which the firft planters eipecially have bin at.in make- E 
ang the place fubfiftable and comfortable , which now others reaps, || 
the fruit of, unknowne tummes lye buried underground infuch a — — 29 
- Worke as that is. e | 
ον 4. Someimay be poore, (fo we ag fure) many arerich,that carri- | | 
|. ed nothingat all. that now have E ufe, Land, Corne,Cattel,&c and | | Y 
fuch as carry fomething are much encreated. | 
07 πι 0b. Many fpeake evill ofthe place. : JE 
— - hf. Didnot tome doe fo of the Land of Cavan it felfe. yet Cana- JR 
«n was never the worfe.and chemfelves fmarted for fo doing.Second-. 
ly {ome have been punifhed there for their Delinquencies.or reftrai- | 
ned from their exorbirances ; or dif-ountenanced for their iil opi- | | 
1 
| 


moo 


RRS HAST 4 


Ra Se 


nions and not fufterd to vent their ftuffe : and hencebeing difpleat- | 
ed takerevenge by flandcrousreport. Thirdly, Let fuch if any tuch . 
τς there be as have ought to alleadgesdeale fairely and above board, and 
o DE | . €ome 


m 


«conie and juftifie any thingagainftthe Country to our faces while = 
we arc here to aniwer, but iuch never yet appeared in any ofour = | 


E 
E 
P 
A 
d 


ας 


pr.icnce to avouch any thing 1n this kindenor (we beleive) dare do. 
Mer p : - 


at without biufhing. Ee qu 
8. A hs doe many comeaway from thehte? uo ra ‘ 

^ Anjo, Docnottuany removetrom one Countrytoanother, andy — | 
vet nonelikes che Country the. leiie becaufe tome depart trom it? E 


ο, Secondly, few that we know otantend io acide here, but doe eome - 

* onfome {peciall bufines, and purpofe to rcturne. Thirdly of them - 

| that are come hicher.to flay; (ο ; our knowledge} fome ot che (ο | án 

|. fepentthem already, and wifh themiclves there againe. Fourthly.as - 
li dome went thither upon fudden undi clted erounds , and faw not - 

Tih God leading them in their way. but were carryed_by, an unitayed. 

SN | i Pintle have they returned upon as fleight headlefle, unworthy rea- — 
| onsas they went. Fiftly. others mutt have elbow-roome , and can- 

| not abide to be fopinioned with the ftri Government in the Com 

| | κ ed or Diícipline in the Church, now why fhould fuch live 

i there; as Jreland will not brooke venemous beafts , {ο will not that: 


: Land vile perfons, andloote livers. Sixtly, though fome few have -. | 
removed íi Eres Me ed truly fay) thoufands aswife às —— | 
.themíclves would not change their place for any other in the. — ^ 
World. κ Ue CPC ἐν ολα οκ. 
‘ "4 T Ἶα ο ML Ae οκ ee 1 


Pd 


- in. 
n "————— ———— d 


(Y 
— ~ I» 


a τις n DE re SENT νο Pme * ITUR oR απ ESE IS va VPA "T 


Wah j " Ὃ ων ^ cub. 


a 
1 
D 


^ 
i 


Mae sag δες, 


Bae ty ο Mice Song es 


