! 


λος ολο 


E 2 Y . 7 


{SOUND BY F. BEDFORD ; M " ERA -- 


X pp, 
a AME 


5 . 
T 


+ 


 inftan cien of asd] Friends, vali defi 
atasfied in thefe points by many New-England Men. — 
who ate here prefent, and were eye or eare- 
cea of thé fame, 


fien wert i pítre πο uprig ds | bi pot now be will an "t ee: en Aud T 
; VP ae be, mall, oy latter end Pall σα pie lob. 5 67 


; for. Heary oii 
epe mide RS M 


n 
«173 


= 


Fee 


rr 


Se 


qe yo en 


die bere hice 


HSBISSSEUSS 9i 


a. Inrefped of the Ix pias s,&c 


| beganto gachér in'amongft them, as a fure pledge (we are confident) 


|. mention no more inftances at prefent : but confider ; Firft, their in- 

finite diftance from Chriftianity, saving never been prepared there- 

unto by any Civility atall.. Secondly. the difficulty oPcheir Lan- 

| guage tous, and of olirs to them ; there being no Rules to learne ei» 

| therby. Thirdly, cie diverfity i bos Language to it Ícife s. 
Xue AAA t1 < 5 tiu big Pe ded κά 2a Mg ak ζ Fu 4 295 


BANK ον AKG AMA 4n "NIV ISIN 


439:883863:983933588939233:99 
AC He WSOP ; ον 5 e» RS P 


ffr 
pr. 
PS. 
fa ates 
C N 4 (s u 
$398/9389899:5938: 
S3SEBSSSSRSSESSI 
y : os ; 7 
» uü 
&g 7 EA ; 
d EJ 4 


: wy y A 
OON X a IT AN 
daa i 

E: 


; 6 


eL. 


Ne 


IRS 


St He Lord, who ufeth not to be wanting tothe 
Sw qw defires of his Servants, ashe hath not fruftrated. 
Eve 4 the ends of our Tranfplanting in tundry other 

PSY refpctts; fo neither in the giving fome light to 


" 
i-em 
‘O29 
MTM 
"ο i 
td 
TD 
Lo 
"dg | 
[og yan 
25 
1x 
Cy 
Od» 
ο 
^h 
Ξ 
E 
-e 
ία.) 
- 
£1 
Ct 
25 
<j 
Yo 
& 
a 
et 
O 
= 
5 
Cia 
c» 
et 
x 
QQ 
B 
ES 
BH 
[er 
ο 
m 


‘Wherefore we judged it our duty no longer to conceale, but to de-. 


clare (to the praife or his owe free grace) what fir? Frees he hach’ 


of a greater Herve in his owne time. And wonder not chat wee _ 


every -—- 


FE [ru d s » 
3 La WC MEE / 


μον 


es 0000 0000000090909 — | 


-— ade 


Sek 


ame 


PASSES 


Educa) Y ME 
CIO NM 


= ET a 
a ow mee 


m 


iE ISSUE 


GET CERE VN) 
PI 


TS 


τος 


λες 


Ci eT 


we 


SpE 


as See 


i. 
IDE 


PASE]: 


Sey eee 


C3t3tJES 


EE me UT TTE 


SEIS 


LRQ ul 


aS 


PATRAS 


PIENE UE 


eT E 


εσας 


ο μοντ E CE De s sts tue Haeo MN iris qma RUE MTS j - | 
: gy wee MCN & 355 03 Ιω y da NY S A L7 VN Pa a Pe aa MZ uy. 149. y WE ai 


Se ee 


Sz 
rans 


-——— À 
eir 


re 


_ evety part éP thar Coumtey having its ο να Dialect, differing mich —— 
from the other ; all which make their comming into the Golpel 
the more flow. But what God hath done for fome of them, we will, — 
declare. oe οσον ve EE es 


Aan eas fince at Plimmourh Plantation, when the Church 

L'¥ À did raft and pray for Raine in extrcame Drought ; it being 
avery hot and clear. fun-fhine day;-all the tormer pare thereof; An 
di» ot goed quality, being pretent, and feeing what they were a- 
bout, fella wondring at them tor praying for raine ina day {o.un- 
likely, when all Sunne and no Clouds appeared ; and thought that 

their God was not able to give Raine at iuch a time as that : but this 
poore wretch teeing them {till to continue in tier Prayers, and be- 

. holding that at lalt the Clouds began to rile, and by that time they. 
had ended their Duty, the Raine fell in amottiweet , conftunt, — 
{oaking fhoxyre, feli into wonderment at the power that the Enelifh | 

- had with their God, and the greatnctle and goodnetle of tha: God [ 
whom they ferved , and was d4imitten with terror that he hadabufed = | 
them and their God by his former hard thoughtsof them; andre- ; 

. folved trom that day not to reft till he did know this great good Ged, 
and for that end to forlake the /ed:ans , and cleave to the. Fnelith » | 
which he prefently did, and laboured by all publique and private ^ — 
meanes to fuck in morc and more of the knowledge of God, andhis —— ' 
wayes, Andas he increafed in knowledge fo in affe@ion andalio in 
his practice, reforming and conforming humi{elte accordingly: and. | 
(though. he was much tempted by inticements.. fcoffes and icornes” 
from the /edian) yet, could hetiever be gotten fromthe Exg^f»; nor, — 
from {ceking af:er their God.. but died amongft them, leavingfome. 
good hopes 1n their hearts, that his foule went (Οτο 

2., Sagamore 1905, Prince.ot Atajagucfers , wasfrom our very firit 
landing more courteous, ihg-nious, and tothe Englifhimoreloving, — 
then others of chem ‘he defired to learne: and fpeake our Language,; — 
and loved to imitate us an our behaviour and apparrell, and beganto, — | 
hearken after eur God and his wayes , and would much commend. — 
Eng! ith men, and their God ; faying (eb good men, much geod Gi 


and being convinced that our conditron and.wayes were betterfarte — 
REE 5 gg EAS Rel ην ελ στ ντ ii rifle toe, ped do sie Bi ae: ο P ee da 
then theirs, did redolye_and pr mife το leave the Tnasans and come. ~ 


s Te Oa yt Ore 2 κ ας Y : ete ee ey tht ae ch ee ee oe Ls 

; live wBhae ; Dus yet BEDE AIG Dy isse Ob {coffes of the Indis. — 
Ani, had not power to make good his purpofe; yet went on,not with- 
i29 1 E: 


, 3j PT H É : Bs 
πό ης ny xz A ; i 


> αν 


DA ΝΑ FEF NUSZ SA a ο ών Ισ ene 


(RR RA 
TS ΙΑΝ T» 
ERN ZEE ee he LE νε, -ε.- 
* I 4 5 : 
^ bi 
3 « es ) ^ " 


/ 


το putfome trouble of mind, and fecret plucks of Confcience, asthe | 
— iequel:declares z forbemg ruck with death; feariuily cryed out ot. 
- himdeite that hz had not come to live with us, to have knowne our | | 


^^» God better : Sat xem ( laid hé) / zeuff aie , 16e Goa of the Ερορ 18 
(i much angry with me,and will deféroy me; ab, 1 was affraid of theseujes of 
5 theje wicked Indians ; yet my ( bila [hall leve wih tbe Englith, and senrne 


,, toknow their God when Í am aead ;. tle givehim to My, Wilíon eee ae 


j» much Gaod man, and much lovea me: 10 {ent for Mr. Wifes to come 
to hum, and committed his onely Child to his care, and £o did. 
. 3. Divers of the Zediazs Chiidren, Boyesand Girles we hayere- 
ceived into our houfes, who are long που civilized, and in tubj<cti- 
- on tous, painfull and handy in their bafincfic;and can {peak our £an- 
- guage famiariy ; divers or whom can read Englifh, and begin to un- 
deritand 1n their meature, the grounds of Chrittian Rcligion ; tome 
of them areabie to give us account of the Sermons they heare, and 
of the word r. ad and expounded in our Families, and are Convinced. 
of tharfinfull and mitcrable Eftates ; and affected with ‘the tenic of 
Gods cilpleature, and the thoughts ot Eternity, and will fomeunies 
tremble and melt into teares at our opening and prefling che Word. 
upon their Coniciences ; and as farre as we can diicerne; fome of 
them ufe to pray an fecret, and are much 1n love with us, and cannot 
‘yndure to returneany more to the /adsans.) το 0o c3 
Some of them will nox be abtentfrom ‘a Sermon or Family‘du 


s tesif they can help it; and we have knowne fome would ute to weep 
| - Aandcry when detained by occafion fromthe Sermon: - |" 


^. 


of other fervants idleneile, and reprove them. ^ jr HELIO 0] 
. Oneofthem. who for fome mitdemeanour that laid him open to 
|»... publique punifhment. ran away ; and being gone; God to toliowed 
Juftice. and'was willing to tubmit himtelfe ; though he might have 

; eícaped.: pne emnt ΟΗΕ TOTILVIOHTITO TD3930.815 07 O9 BIOS 
- .: An /»dian Maid at «lem, would oftencome from the Word. cry- 
^. img out with abundance of teares , concluding tha: the mutt burne 
S when fhe die, and would fay, fhe knew her delte naught for pretent, 
| = and liketo be miferable for ever, unlefle tree Grace fhould prevent 


ous in her place; and fo continued. - » 


eh 


i tT 


* 
- OY Basil Meares Eee Bee Προ TS 
AEA AER DER ASI AED ASI AEM 


© Qihers of them are very inquifitive after God and his wayes B and 
being themielves induftrious in their Calling, will much complame - 


him. that otshis owne accord he returned home, rendred himtelfe td. 


| it, and after thisgréw very carefull of her-carriage, proved indultri-. 


Another. 


[SEIS 


i SES ae 
reri ee on m new mee em a 


LATIN TERE 


ELSE 


[SE κελεε 


WANG 


ei δα, 


RES 


Seek 


uri me eae 


Kus 


ee Go So Vi ee i andi rei Wee 


Ae 


JSt 


SSS Se SS See eo 


XU. 


JC 


Eke 
i) 1 


V VOCE 


Bekele heheh 


TC EU SS 


DEON PN PR Ns PY 7 iy 


E (2) SUC 

. Another often frequenting the Houfe of one of the Minitters at 
Salem, would tell him the Story ofthe Bible, even to his admurati- 
on,and that he atcended upon the Word preached, and loved τες and 
how he could tell all che Commandements, and in particular each 
Commantement by ictelfes and how he laboured tokeep them all ; 
and yet tor all chis (faid he) | Me dre, and walke ix fire | that isowhen 
I dic, Imult to Hell: That Minifter asked him why? he anfwered, 
becaule I. know not /efws Chrift » and pray'd him earneítly to teach 
him {ες Cort, andatter went out amongit the /mdzans, and called 
upon them to put away all their wives fave one becaufeit wasafinne __ 
ag ας Englifh-mans Saviour: Adr Horde 

. Another indi» comming by, and feeing one of che Englifh (who 
Was remote from our juri{diction. prophaning the Lords day, by fel- 
ling of a trees faidto him, ,, Doe jos «ar know that this is the Lords day, 
in Adfaffagu[etis? much macher man, that is very wicked man, what, breake 
you Geds Day? (000073. bil 3o 
το The fame man. comming into an houfe in thofe parts where 
aman and his wife. were chiding, and they bidding him fit downe : 
he was welcome; he anfwered, ,, He wonls net flay there, God did not 
dwell there, H ovamock, (that isthe Devil) was there, and {ο departed. É 

. One ot the Sagamores, having complaint made to him by fome of | 
the Englith, thachis men did ufe to kill. Pigeons upon the Fords day; 
thereupon forbad them to doe fo any more; yet afterwards fome of © 
them did attempt it, and climbing che high trees (upon which Pige- 
ons in that Countrey ufé to make cheir nefts) one of them fell down 
from ott che tree and, brake his neck; and another fell down and brake - 
iome of his limbs: thereupon the »agamere- fent two grave old men 
to proclaime 1t amongft bis. /»die»s, that none of chem fhould kill | 
PigeonsupontheSabbothdayany more. «^. | | 


Another {ράια» hearing of the fame ot the Exgli/h, and their God 


πο 


_ came froma far to fce them, and fuch wasthis manslove tothe €. 
| glib and their wayes after he came acquainted with them; that he la- - 
|[ Pearce to transform himielfe into the Exgé/ manners and practites; 
| as if he hed been an Englith man indeed ; he wouldbe called no more 
_ by his /»dx name, but would be named ("ibam : he would not goe -— 
naked like the Z4; , but cloathed juftas oneofouríelves; he abs ——— 
horred to dwell withthe /»dians any longer; but forfaking all his — 
friends and Kindred. dwelt wholly with us ;; when hefatedowneto -- 
; meat with us, if thanks were given before hecame in; or if hedideat — 


AN " te, 
RS BOF : ΤΟΝ: FNS ty NEAT JN STANS. MARS AEN NAIA Aer Noe RES 
PLAN IA] | MOM ELEM ΛΑ PLAS ΑΝ 1 pA / i 


Se ES STAT eS T " — v Wists pd 
= A «ων κ ᾱ eS Fe SS YS Es 


_ by himiclfe , conftantly he would give thanks reverently and grave- 
— ly he ire u: nid the word and family dutics where he came. and gat 
a good mecture of knowledge Leyond ordinary, being a man of tin- 
gular p-r s.and would comp.aine that he knew not Chrift,and with- 
‘out hun, he taid ali he did was no.hing; hee was fo zealous for the 
Lordsday, thar (as 1t was obterved) it he faw any protaningic, he 
would rebuke them, and tarcaten them to carry them to the Gover- 
nour. | ' 


.. them, doe belong to the Kingdome of God ; and what further ume 
‘may produce, weleave it co num chat 15 excellent in Counfell , and 
‘wonderfull in working. | j 

coo 4. There is alto a Buackmoremaid, that hath longlived at Dorche- 

fer. in New E»gia»d , unto whom God hath {ο bleied the publique 

. and private means of Grace that fhe is not only indued with a com- 

Ῥετεπε mealure of knowledge in the mytteries of God, and convicti- 

onot her miterable eftace by finne; but hath alto experienee of a 
faving work of grace in her heart. and a {weet favour ot Chrift brea- 
thang in hersinfomuch that her foule-+hath longed to enjoy Church- 
fellowfhip withthe Saintsthere, and having propounded her defire 
tothe Elders oFthe Church. atter fome triall of her taken 1n private, 
| ‘She wascalled before the whole Church. and there did make contet- 
tion of her knowledge in the Myfteries of Chriftand of the-work of 
Converfion upon her Soule: And after thát there was foch a tefü- 
mony given of her blamelefle and godly Converfatron. that fhe was 
.admitteda:member by the joynt content ofthe Church with great 
-joy-toall theirh:arts. Since which time, wehave heard her much 
‘admiring Gods freegrace to fuch a posre wretch as the was; ‘thet 


3. 


-calt an-eye upon her , to make her a member of Chrift, and of the 
Churchalfo: and hath with teares exhorted fome other of the /»- 
diaas that live with us to embrace /ef«: (oif declaring how willing 

- she wouldbe-toreceive them, even as he had received her. 2 
-« 8$. The laft inftance we will give. fhillbe of that famous Indian 

το .Wegeath,whowasa Captaine, a proper man of perfon , and of a very 


| very lately. was indeed the occafion of writing all the reft: This 


| 
[ « 


B " * i ae - P 
Neff emi rd ett | atta Fer fete. fi tock hehe RwtDhantsed wm Aue E Eve E uate] € 
VA Ads ARE IED NIENTE XT I AIDED GED EID T EU rg e 
| be = ales VARIES iT a EL CEA aL RR aC 


God leaviug all her £richds and Kindred ftill.in their finnes ; fhould 


--graveland lober {pirit ; the Story of which comming to our hands . 


ESR a SOY 

NA Ph 

EDS iiss 
| 


S RSEN 


Ail which things weighed , we dare no: buc hope that many of. 


man. a few yearesfince , feeing and beholding the mighty-power o£. 


"^God.in our Englifh Forces, how they fell upon the Peguiis , (uk 
A. a iy 1VCrs - 


X 


CRM 


EST Se 
=< 


EO 


A 


Te 
il 


ελα 


K 


= 


SAT PITT 


ELSES 


Se 


i me 


eL. 


ASE 


2E CI 


3E 


JEJE 


TT IT T T 
mu Ww ES - 


Ses mig Qi aai 


3E 


SESE 


αμ Bi em qeu qur η 


“ASE 


m 


4 
it 
Dol 
0 
i 
j' 
1] 
i 
1 
L) 
ip 
i] 
m 
iv 
i) 

i) 

U 


ASS ASEAN 


S EO E MOS ολοι T wein 
NÉ SEALE TRU ETRU ET RITA PRA 
p SAGE ata VANS UP EN Ph A ICD 


; : (63. : 
divers. hundreds of them were flaine inan houre: The Lord, asa ] 
God of glory in great terrour did appeare unte the Souleand Con. ——— | 

icience ot this poore Wretch, in that very act ; and though before 
that time, he had low apprehentions of our God, having conceived 
hin. coibe (as he faid) buta Auskere God, or a God like unto a flye; 
and asmeane thoughts of the Englifh that ferved this God, that they 
were filly weake men ; yet from that time he was convinced and per- _ 
{ivaded that our God was a molt dreadtull God ; and that one Er- 
gi». man by the helpof his God was able to flay and pucto flight an. 
hundred /aaeans, ^. : " Rr so eoe 
This conviction did purfue and follow him night and day. fo that — 
he could have no reft or quiet becaufe hee was ignorant of the E»- 
glijb mans God: he went upand down bemoaning his condition, and 
filling every place where he came with fighes and groanes. — 7 | 
- Afterward 1t plee'ed the Lord that fome Exghj> (well acquainted _ 
with his Language) did meet with him ; thereupon asa Hart pan- 
ting after the water Brookes, he enquired atter God with {uch inceí- 
fant diligence, chat they were ο μας conftantly for his fatisfa- 
-&ion to {pend more then halfe the night in converfing with him. 4 
— Afterwards he came to dwell amongft the Enelifh at Comnetteut, - . | 
fiji cravelling with all his migat; and lamenting after the Lord: his — | 
manner was to {mite his hand on his breaft , and to com lainefadly . 
_of his heart. fay1ng, 1t was much machet, (that 1s,very evil and when | 
any fpake with him, he would fay , 77equafb, πο God, W'equajh no know | 
(Brij. Tt pleafed the Lord, that in the ufe of the meanes, he grew 
greatly in the knowledge of Chrift , and in the Principles of Religi-. 
on. and became thorowly reformed according to his light, hating 
and loathing himfelfe for his deareft finnes, which were efpecially 
thefe two. G#f and Revenge. this repentance for the former was te- 
{tified by his temperance and abftinence from all occafions, or mat- 
_ter of provocation thereunto. Secondly, by putting away all his 
Wives, faving the firft. to whom he had moft right. — Gui ] 
His repentance for the latter was teftifhied by an eminent degteeof - j 


σσ 2s V ENVCSENV SENI SENI 


κατα 


a 


meekneile and patience. that now, ifany did abufe him, he could lie 
downe at their feet, and if any did {mite him on the one cheeke, he | 
ο would rather turne the other, than offend them : many trialls hee —— | 
. had from the Jdaxs in this cafe. Thirdly, by goingupand downe — — 

. to tho'z hee had offered violence or wrong unto, confeffingit;and — 


44h 


 makingrefüitution. = | 


"Afterwards — 


ΛΑ SON CSN TSC ION ISRCTN ACTIN ACIRU AINA GIONS VENE NER p : 
À Y y» PY AM ^ ΚΟ MAACO) E SUE 


SEMIS a c; mU 


Seg 
LT 


ο ποσα τα ων 
ο Aah A POSE. 
DOT Ag IET 
Tam. 


E.A ο (15) 
('.— Afterwards he went amongft the Indians, like that poore Woman 
of Samaria, proclaiming Chryf, and telling them what a Treaturehe - 
had found, inftructing them in the knowledge of the true God: and _ 
this he did witha graveand ferious {pirit, warning them with all 
faichtullnefle to flee from the wrath to come ; by breaking off their © 
finnes and wickednetle. : | ος 
This courte of his did fo difturb the Devill, that erelong fome of 
_ the Indians, whofe hearts Satan had filled.did fecretly give him poy- - 
- fon, which he tooke without fuipition: and when lie lay upon his 
. death bed, tome Indians who were by him, wifhed him according to 
the Indian manner, to fend for ‘Pe ew (that is to fay) a Wizzard; he 
toldthem, Jf /efus Chrsff (ay that Wequafe [ball live, shenWwequalh muft 
Ive; if Lefus Chrift fay, that Weque[b [bali dye, then Wequalh ws willing to dye, - 
anawil rot lengthen oni bis life by any {uch meanes. Before he dyed, he 
did bequeath his Child to the godly care of the Englith for education 
andinitruction and fo yielded up his foule into « 474? his hands. 
'Icannot omit the teftimony of Mr. $5.a godly Minifter in the Bay, 
that wroze to his Friend in Lozdo? concerning this Story , his lines 
are full plainand pithy his words thefe, 

Weguajy-tiefumoms indian atthe Rivers mouth i dead , and certainlyim 
heaven, glorioufly didthe Grace of Chrift /Pswe forth «m bis comves (ation, 4 
yeare and a balfe before his death be knew Chrift; be toved Chrift, be prea- 
chea C brift up and down, and then [uffered Martyrdome for ( brift; and whens 
he dycd be gave bu (cule to ( brif?, avd his only childto the &ugli]b, rejaycing 
inthis hope , that the chsld{boula krow more. of Chrift then sts poore Father 
ever did, des | 

"Thus we have given youa hittle taft of the fprincklings of Gods 
fpirit,upon a few indians, but one may eafily imagine, that herc are 
not all that may be produced: for if a very few of us here prefent, 
| . upon very. fudden thoughts, have inatcht up only fuch inftances - 
^. "which came at prefent to hand.you may conceive, thar i£ all in our 
-.-. Plantations¢which are farre and wide)fhould fet themfclves to bring 
in the confluence of all their Obtervations together, much more 
might be added 
. We belecve one mean amongft 
|. thefepoore wretches to looke after the Gofpell.hath been the deal- 
— Apgsandcarriages, which God hath guided the Englifh in our Pa- 
|. tent; toexercife towardsthem : For, 


others, that hath thus farre wonne 


1. At 


WG Te od η | 
ABEND LE SAAS ἡ 


Ie 


— 
. L3 


X ij 
CONO 
| wea’. | 

ES at Sd 


a 


Soe I 


ECT 


SESS SS 


A: 


TEES 


Jem 


al 


ZIP loa, SNe! 


Fe ee 


AS 


—— = = 
[NIU eas ye 4a av ele pads ges 7 


SS amem 


SUE 


a 
RS, 


- 
wis 


EISE: 


3s : | 
particular acts; thatas we expect right dealing from them, in cate’ 
any of them fhall trefpalie us , weiendto their Sagamore, andlhe ' 
pretently rights usor elfe we f{ummon them to our Court to anter? 

15 loif'any of cir men offend them: and com plaint and proote be ' 
made,co-any of our Magittrates, or the publique Court(they know) 
they are Lure to be righted to the béatolt bik cha 2D Set Dg *' 


by us. A 
4. Che humanity of the Englith towards them doch much gaine ^ 
upon them, we being generally wary, and tender in giving them of- 
fenfive or harfh language, or carriage, but ufe th:m tairly and cours - 
teoufly with loving termes, good looks and kind faluces. 1-775 | 
_Thus they having firfta good efteem of our Perfons, (fuchof —~ 
them as God intends good unto ) are the fooner brought to hearken 
to our words, and then to ferve our God: wueras on ihe contrary, * -— 
the wicked, injurious. and {candalous carriages of fome other Plan- * 
tations, have bin a mean to harden chofe poore wofull toules againit ' 
the Englifh and all Religion for their fakes;and 1eale them up under 
- perdition.. dg | | Oe ME 
"Yet (miffake us not) we are wont to keep them at fucha diftance, 
(knowing they ferve the Devill and areled by him) asnotto mm-‘ 
bolden them too much. or truft chem too farre; though wedo them 
what good we can. . And the truth is, God hath {ο kept them, (ex- 
cep ing that act of the Pequics, long fince, to fometew of our men). 
that we never found any hurt from them, nor could ever proveany 
reall intencions of evillagsinft us : And if there fhould betuch 1n- 
tentions and that they all fhould combine together againft us, wich: 
all their ftrength that they can raile, we {ee no probable ground at ~ 
all to.teare any hurt from them. they being naked’ men. and the’ 
'nuinb:r of chem that be amoneft us net confiderable. ^ —-^ ^: + 
Let us here g:vea touch alfo of what God hath doneand is further 
about to doe,to divers Plantations of the Englith, which betorethat 
aie. . tine . 


* 


3 dii 7A 7 7 Xa f Y ny CR em ere are Sy BLE WOIZEDO WISIS 
BSE IN AS ANC ANNA) ANN AIA ABO ESA NDE ANN DAS 
N. Y ν a à "ον ο » 3 7 AA " 


‘¢ime that God fentlight into our coafts, were alinoft as darke and 
rude astheindiansthemdelves. ^ — 5 05 | | 
αν Firftat zigamentices (a Plantation out of our jurifdiction) to 
which one of our-Preachers commuiig and labouring amongit thems 
wasa meanes under God , notoaly co iparkic heavenly knowledge; 
And worke conviction anéretormation in divers ot. them, but con- 
verfion alfo to Chrift’indome of them? that bletle God to this day, 
that ever he came thither. Shien ard noun i Kia Ga Moy den 
σα, "Thenatfter that; at Seco Plantation-which is an hundred miles - 
from us; divers of vhat placeconiminbg often into-our coai'saad hears 
ing che Word préached ; and {eeing Gols goings amongit his people 
there, being muci affected went home, and lamented amongit char, 
neighbotirs chéir own wofull condicion ». that lived like heathens 
without the Gofpel, when others injoyed it in great plenty: heres 
wpon with joyntcotifent two of their chiefe men were tent in all 
their naues earncftly to intreat us to fend a godly Miaitter to preach 
thé Word unto them; which was doe accordingly.not without good 
 fücceffetothe people there.and diversplacesaboucthem. | 
^3. After this, cowards rhe end of laft Summer, foure more Planta- 
' tions fome of which arc divers hundred mules;others of them many 
hundred leagues from our Plantation ) hearing of the goodneilc of 
God to his people in our parts... aud of the light of the Gotpel there 
 fhinins; have done even as Jacob did 1n the Famine time, when he 
"heard there was bread in Egypt he hafted away his Sonnes for Corn, 
thatthey might live and not die : in like manner three feverall 
*Pownsin?^ "ginta. as al(o Barba dor, briffophers;an dA nt ega,al of them 
"such abott thefametime; asif they had known the minds of each 
iother.did (énd: Letters and Meffeagets.crying out unto us.as the man 
QE: Maéedenta to Paul, Come asd eel ws, and that with füch earnett- 
neffeas men hunger-ftarved and ready to die. cry tor breads fo they 
chy outtinto us in the bowels of compastion, forthe Lord Jetus take 
‘attend them fóme helpe. They tell'us in fome of their Letters that 
from the one.end ofthe Land to the other. there is none to break the 
“bread of lie unto the ΡΑΣ) and thofe that fhould docit; are fo vile 
that even drunkards and {wearers, cry fhameonthem 9 s 7 
U^ shhd thought (but only for che {welling o^our Difcourfe). to 


have fer down their Letters'at ‘large’, which they wroteto, allour 


Churches” which fpake with {uch ftrength of reafon and'affection, 
 Othat herchey were read in our Congregations,they prevailed with 


wha’ 


f 


Meath 


Sese sess 


Eee ae tara 
SS 


ια. 


ES 


<a 


aE, 


ae, 


cu pen Se 
ASX, 


as 


ES, 


3 


, SAT 
NS INT AN 


Sa lg Uae 
e 


XVI P αλ αν 


ES 


c. 


[- 
Cm 
ow 


c'era Ld ed sei uiua mi aay Cy Vi a 


C 


L. 
ji 


πεσει SEASEICRSA SES 


ο REUS eo 
Soe 


νο NM NU M NL SO 
T s ah 
T 4^ 
ies AN 
2 | 
s" 


Ves lar ee): 


MS 


WE NODE SS SY es ee 


ον μή RM E, d 


TETUR Eoi CU ο μα ος DIOE GENI tat he 17 at 2 j ο 
ΘΑ σώμ ΚΑΛΑ SN Cie ANE AW AR ἐν Ον. eH Ακ AN αν. Αν ας ο αν 
i : d í ER M 


us that for theirnecesfity.we:fpared the bread fronvour oten mouths, 


to fave their lives, and tent two of our Minulters tor the prefent to, - 


Margene. and when the Ships came away trom them they lett them in 


{erious contultation, whomrto give up to the workeot Chrift inthe, © 


ther three placesalfo. . ο 


ΑΕ ΤΟΝ 
in fome of the. 


thatthe Indians themfel és- 


We heare moreover. 1ans themielve. 
places named.did joyne with themanthisthar tui), 
Now from what hath bin faid, tee the riches οἱ Gods. free Grace 


an Chrift, chat 1s willing to unpart inercy cven to the worlt ot men, - 


and fuchias are furtheft off. cry out wit Cant O^ the dep-55, Ge. and. 
let heaven and earth be filed with the glorious praifes of God for 


thefame. — ^i ote diode ond SET 
And af {uch as areafarre off, why fhould not we that are nearer 


. prefle in for a fhare therin, and cry out, as £j«# did with teares to‘his — 


Father,when he faw the blesfing going away to his young.r brother, 
and himielfe, like to lofe it: [UA my Father bafé thom bur one biejing, 


bisjje me alfo,evex methy firj borue, bleffe me, ob wey Father, ] Flite ihete 
. poore Indians will certainly rife up againft us , and with great bold- 


nefle condemn usin the great day of our accompts, when many.of 
us here undcr great light, fhall fee men come from the Eaft and from 
the Weit, and fit down in the Kingdome ot God, and our ielves caft 
out. du | » Sf nh Bee 
his people into che Wilderneile. to {ee a reed fhaken wich the wand; 
but amongft many other fpeciall ends, this wasnone ot the leait, to 
{pread the light of his blefled Gotpel, to tuch as’never heard the 
found of it. To itop che mouths of the profane that calumniate the 
work of God in our hands, and to fatistte the hearts of the Saanés 
herin, that God had tome fpeciall {ervice for his peóple there to doe, 
which in part alrcady we begin to tee, and wait upon ‘Dsvine Ws/aome, 
to difcover more ot his pleature herin. and upon his Grace to effect, 
which we beleeve in his tunehe will {ο doe, that men shall fee and 
know the wifdome and power of God herin. ae ks 

3. Shall we touch here upon that apprehenfion which many god- 
ly and wile have conceived , andthat from fome Scriptures compa- 
red; and from other grounds, and paffages of Providence cvilected 
that (asir'svery probable) : God meanesto carry his Goipel weft- 


ward, 1n thefe latter times of the world; and have tho: ght, asthe 


Sunne intheatiernoon of the day , fll. declines more and more to 


\ SS τα πο DEOR Pec gas 
ΝΤΑΝΣΤ PDS YS DSI INE IDS ENS 


1 4 » TA dva : " ος 
ΜΟΝ κ TES κ ο iid MS 
σι νι NG Toe SA ET ir ene Led Eae ee s 


2; Let the world know . that God led not. fo. many.thoufands of 


the 


SGN EA νο το νο ET A 


the Weft.and then fets: {ο the Gofpel (that great light of the world} 
| though it rote in the Fait. and informer ages, hath lightenedtr wath. 
hisbeames; yet inthe latcer ages of the world will bend Weitward, 
| and beforeits fetciny, brighten cheie parts, with his glorious luttre 
allo. P6 wd | 
(4. See how Gods wifdomeproduceth glorious effects, from un- 
likely meanes, and make ftreigiit works by crooked inftrumcnis: for 
who would have thought, that the chaiing away hence 1o many 
godly Minifters, fhould {ο farre have promoted the praites ot God, 
and ihould be a méane to {pread the Goípzl when taey intend.d το 
ruinéit: they blew our their lights and they burn cicarer : their 
filenciug Minifters have opened their mouths fo wide, as to found 
|  euihis giortous praites; to the uttermolt parts ot theearth> fay with - 
| the Piaimatt, i bis is the Leras doing ard st si mary eluus iB ORY ejes. 
_ 5. Detpiienot the day of {mali chings; let noric fay of us as thofe 
Ícoffers did ot their buiiding /erz[alm, bat will t&e[c wear lewes doe 2 
pit learne to adoré God in all his Providence, and wait to fee his 
enas. 
6. Lendus, we befeech you (all you that love 2/09) your prayers 
and helpe in heaven and earth for the furtherance of this great and 
glorious worke in our hands ; great works need many hands, many 
prayers, many teares: And defire the Lord tofti:re up the bowels of 
{ome godly minded , to pity thofe poore Heathen tha: are blecding 
to death to eternall death and co reach forth an hand of toule-mercy, 
to Íave fome of them trom the fire of hell by affording fome means 
to maintain fome fit inftruments on purpole to fpend their tune, 
and give themfelves wholly to preach to thefe. poore wreiches 
^. that as the tender $4mars4» did to the wounded man. they may 
pitty them. and get them healed, that even their bowels may blciie 
them in the day of their vifitation , and Chrifts bowels retrethed by ορ 
their love, may {etit on his own {core, and pay. them allagaie in: ορ 


TUI eR ρσστηη = E ασε Soa — A = = 
E σσ. ο ρολ ερ ων ον ea Roa = T —Á— = — = 
c m eia ues "as Á ο a, XUNG VS ο OMNES] Th ae Ga TA 


the day of their accompts. 


oe: 


κ 


i.” 
^ . 


Ὁ 


AAAS ASE AADAD A ADA 
if 


ᾗ 


PEALE Ανά YS AER SES 


y 3 


Bae 
ES 


VSP SHO Y MOY SUNY SENS SIG A 


E 


] 4d «πει καν M M 
Ba UA. 4 2 Peso. de CR ! 
)íOEWD P GM - X " y a ; 
H 4 d E Bae 5 13 íí o 1 Ba "s TT 
Hi f = "ae , ^ NN E Ed ~~ p i 
Li zu n zm EM d ; | 1 
as aap me leit 19 3 i ri Siac 
t " <4 bo 
5 * 
4 [, 
η d ET : 3 re et jaws wy, 
: 3 : z ig Lus abd 
i et |^ p 
rT : 1 } 1 - gis "9" 
L4 1 Pg ASTA CATQM Y έ ' ] pci T 
1t) Y $3) i H Pad £34 3 


a ek 
5 DAES 


τος Proceedings of Learningtherein, = 8 
Goverment : One of the next 


4 


Work sit pleafed God to für. up the heart of one Mr. Harvard (à god- 


| Bg hil Ad. idus. 
ly Gentleman, anda lover of Learning. there li IB 


der) Harvard Colledge. quà. | | 

The Edifice is very faireand comely within and without, having 
in ita fpacious Hall; (where they daily meet at Common Lectures) 
Exercifes, and a large Library with fome Bookes to it, the gifts of 


io all: rio WALT LAIN L3 
neanall about 17-0-1.) te" 


diverie. 
me 
RR BRR UR BINBSRN IAD IAC 


EN V x 
Sosa a 


| 


6g - 


PTETTERTIINEHUNT SI AG ADIOS 


ο οσο PPE RU AMAT aes = DES : : 
| : 
; a à | 
‘ 1 a | | 
; / | sity AF 


πι οι Ls bn 5 4 befu το ατα ή. ie re Pee MS | πο. 3 
diete of pur friends, cheir/Chaiibers and ftudies alfo/fitted for.and 
potteited by tt Retucents SA L other “Sons of Office! neceflary: 
and convenient, with all sieedtull. O 


ith all niccekull OL fice! lieretó belonging: And by 
the fide of the Colledge a faire Grammar Schodle, forthe training up. 
of young Schollars, and fitting of them for Academieni Wearning, that! 
ftill as they are judged ripe, they may be reccived-into the Colledge 
of this Schoole: Mailer Corfe: asthe Mr. wht hath very well ap 
proved himiclte for his abilities, dexterity and paintuineife sn teach 
ine ind education cbrhe vondtunder tine Défi or ood ab & sorva 
» Over the Colledge is matter Dunjfer placed, ‘as Prefident, a learned 


‘goulcionable. andancitnicus man; Who hath (Od üdind? ip: πα 
Pupills in the tonguesand Aris‘, and fo featoned them wath the 
principles of Diviniry and Chriftianity, that we have to oür great 
comfort, (a;d in truth) beyond our hopes, beheld their preereilé in 
Learning and godlinefte alo : the former of theléhath 2p poared in 
their publi uedeclamations in Larive and’ Greek: “and Ditpurations 
ο μον ΝΑ ΑΡΑ, 
their ordinary Excreuiesin the Colledg -Fiall) in the audience of 
the Magiftrates; Minifters, and other Scholl2rs s for the prob: tion 
oftheir grow.h in Learning upon fet dayes, conftantly once every 
moneth to make and uphold: [he latter hath been menif-tted in 
fundry of them. bythe favoury breathings of their Spiritsin their 


2312 233 


LO AS CN vi 7. AM AY / ss À ve Arar Jer 


To qu S RERO ME 


e 
tC) 


X d T 


m 
2 
1] 
U 


e VEU Eie ici iU Ske 
Peu E d crt. E; 
WAM NIS Spa NV UPS S aM NU A RO 


>, Let every Student be plainly inftru&ed , and earneftly prefled — 
:to contider.well, the maine. end of his lite and ftudies ‘is, 1ο know: 


_ of God, or the Schoole, after twice Admonution; he fhall be lyable, 


ig Sil ya gp catre fus 


Se Ie AEN κο η τα Ενω ATUS i 
(p M9. Ay dy egy Ap Np "A DARE 


Bm. 


TAN 


God and le{us C brift which sserernalllife, Joh . 17. 5- and therefore to’ 


lay Cbrif in the bottome, as the only foundation of all found know- 
ledveand Learning), oa prop ous 910-4 3ddo sorted 
. And feing che Lord only giveth wifedome , Let every one feri-- 


oufly fet himielte by prayer 1n fecret to feeke it of him Prov'2,3. - 
_3.. Every one fhail £o exercile himfelte in reading the Scriptures’ _ 
twice aday, thai he fhall be ready to give fuch an account of hispro< 
ficiency therein, both in Thbeoretitcall obf{ervations of the Language; 
and Logick, and in. £racb:cal and {pirituall truths, as his Tutor fhall _ 
require. according to his ability ; teeing she entrance of the wora gsvetly 
light, it gru ih unser[Fanding ro the fimple, Plalm. 119.130. 7 ο, 
4 That they efhewing all profanation of Gods Name, Attri- 
bu:es, Word, Ordinances, and times of Worfhip, doe ftudie with © 
good conicience, caretully to retaine God, and thelove of his truth. 
in heirinindes clíelet chem know, that (nothwithftanding their — 
Learning) God may give,chem up toftrong delafons, and in the end 
tcareprobare minde, 2 Thief. 2:11, 12. Rom.1. κ... 1:551] 

x. Ihatthey ftudioufly redceme the time ; obferve the generall 
houres appointed for alithe Scudents-, and the {peciall houres for 
their owne (iui: : and chen diligently attend the Lectures, without 
any difturbance by word or sefture.And ifinanythingthey doubt, — 4 
they fhall enquire, as of their fellowes,fo, (in cafe of Neon Jarsfatti- — | 
ov) inodettly of char Tutors. - sac tities 

6: None fhall under any pretence whatfoever, frequent thecom- 
pany and focicty of fuch men as lead an unfit, anddiflolutelife:; ^ — ^ | 

Nor fhali any without his Tutors leave ; or (in hisabfence) the . | 
call of Parents or Guardians. goe abroad to other Townes. 23] 
7 Every Schollar fhall be prefenc in his Tutors chamber at the - 
7:h. houre in the morning » immediately after the found of the — 
Bell achis opening the Scripture and prayer. fo-alfoat the sch. — | 
houreat night, and then give account of his owne privateread- /— 
ing, as atoreiaid in Particular the third, and conftantly attend Le- 
Qures in the Hallat the houres appointed ? But if any (without. 7 

ecefiary in pedimenz)fhall abfent himfelt from prayer or Lectures,” | 
he fhali b:elyable to Admonition, it he offend above once a weeke. — | 
-8, Iiany Schollar fhall be found to tran{grefie any of the Lawes — 1 


μμ 


νά: i CNN 
Eus pese ae ese 
——— 

: "ev é. 


E ur Holds. ο PPM A his name fhall.be eiven- uj to 

— theOQverfeersofthe epi Hiit. ne may bee dede 

ef Publick monethly Wu 

| a) The times 41d Order of their Studies, wnlaffsexperi- 
- cemtejball ew caufe: Hep LT vsus do Scatn ES 


^ 


πι comet 


"T pus fecond and third day of the ead aia read Lectures, as Hollow. 
à rct eis, 6: 
ο Tothefirft yeare T Sth: ofthe clock ín: ihi inorning: Zerie yi 
first: three quarters; Phyfegsthelatt quarter... ne a 6» th 


ES 


SEGA Nes 


DESC 


ii 
| | 
Το the fecond yeare, at the 9th. houre, Erbieks and Ροή) ticks, at có IF 
— venient diftances of time. 3 ii 
ο Tothethird yeare at the 10th; Arishmetick ated Geom the three: πω 
| fuftquarters; » Aftrouemy thelaft. ..- iy 
i ot.) abfternamme; ο | Py 
B The fft yeare difputes at thefecond heise. | m» 
^ cXVEhesd.yeaszeatthe 3d. houte. |... <. : πω 
5 "Phe 3d. yeareat the 4th. every one in his Art. || 8 
ον. The ath, day reads Greeke; - ! 7 my 
To the firft yeare the £rymolegie and Syntax at the T houre. (s 
"To the ad. at the oth: shoure; Profedia and ‘Dinletts D RS : | s 
| Afterncone, WN 
| 


Thefirft yeare at ad. houre pius thep precepts of Grammar in 
| {uch Authors'as have variety of words. «~~ 
Lt The 24, yeare at 3d. houre practice in Peely, Nonnus, Duportsor the 


l - 


κει 
"The ad: yeare perfe& their Theory before tioone, and Lite Style, 


cas. Hon, Imitation, Epitome, both in Profe and Verfe, afternoone. 
The fift da yeads Hebrew, andthe Eaflerne Τε ιο) | ο 
| paw Q3: ne firft yeare houre'the δει, - TU A sd Le | 
| "t Tothe 2d: CbaldeeatthegtH.hoüre.- ^ Coo v 
"qne 3d. AU. οι τον Πολ onov οι. | 
 "Affernoone, id xSH bun nO 
ThE fit y yeare prisca in the Bible at the ad. "oti" * Sed 2 hs LAU 
he 2d. an krriand Dawelarthe 2d. hoüke. ee 
~The 3d: atthe 4th. houre in T?effia, New Tetainenke : ! 
‘Theoth, day reads ‘Rherorick toall atthe rb, boure; ^ 0 07 
Diosaenis the oth, So ib that: every Schollet nay 


A 


x 


LS 
a7 


ο νοεεος 


! 
i 


eee ee 


same 
mis 


oo oe 


ia 


ETESC 


x 


: d ὅ- 
n do at t v.e ee 


ay " 


SR A IRIN λα er e “9, 


Diy ars eS 
Wha θύρες 


OUI S 
" r+ v 
NP. MP AES, 


Pf SP ES Pees vitio 
WAN AINA 


| - (365 
claime once à moneth; The reft of the day vacat Rberericie fudiis; ^ 
Tbe 71b. day rends Divinity Catecbeticall at tbe 8th, boure, (Cemoson pleees- 

at tbe oth, boue, a/ T fternoone, κ 
Thefirfthoure readshiftory inthe Winter, = E 
Thenaturc of plantsin the Summer. y UNS | 
The fumme of every Lecture fhall be examined. before the new’. 

Le&ure be read. | ; ο. au. 
Every Schollar, that on proofe is found able to read the Originalls : 

. ofthe O/4and New Teffamest yn to the Latine tongue, and to refolve 
them Legically;: vithall béing of godly life and’converfation; And at 
any publick A& hath the Approbation of the Overfeers.and Matter: 

“ofthe Colledgé: is fit to be dignified with hisfirft Degree. | = 
Every Schollar that giveth up in writing a Syfiem , or. Synopfis, or: 
fumme af Legiek, Naturall and Morall PAylsfophy, Arishmetick, Geo. 
ο 21617} and Affronctzy : and is ready to defend his:Thefes or pofitions :: 
withall {killed in the Originallsas abovefaid:and of godly lite & con- 
. verfation : and fo approved by the Overteers and Mafter ofthe Col- 
ledge, at any publique 4%, is hit to be dignified with his ad. Degree. 


Ed 


4. The manner of the late Commencement, expreffed in 
a Leiter f nt ocoer from tbe Governour, and divver[e. 4 
of the Ministers, their own words tbefe.. 


σωμα ών ο ο ο ο 


7148 Sindests of the fir ft Class that have beene thefe foure yeeres i 
B. fraine lupi" Univerlity- Learning (for their ripening inthe know- 
" z ledge ofthe Tongues, asd Arts) and are apprved for their manners. 
44 they have kept their pnblick AG s in former yeares, our felves being prefent, 
at them ; fo have they lately kept two [olemne Alls -for their Commencement, 
sobenthe Gavernour, Adaguftrates, andthe Minifters from all. parts, with 
allferts of Schollars, and others ix great numbers were prefent, and did beare — 
tbetr Excercifes; which were Latine and Grecke Orations , and Declamáti.. 
eus,and Hebrew Analafis;Grammatiesll,Legicall etr Rhetoricallef the P[alm:: 
5  Asdtheir. Anfwers and Difpurationsin Logical £ thicall; Pbyficall and Mes 
ο. gaphyficall Queflions s. and fo mere found worthy of the firff degree, (common. 
το Myealled Barchelowr ) pro more Academiarum in Anglia: Being fir/? pre. 
| wed by the Prefident tothe CMagi(frate: and Minifters, and by him, upon 
200 Nfpprebation, folenauly admitted unto the fame degree, aud a pr. 
EE | 5. 520502 ο Arts . 


+ 


: io dS NUM 

Arts delivered into cach of tbeir bands, and power giventhem tovead Lez 
res sntke-Hallnpon any of the Arts, whenthey [bal be therenntocalied, and 
a liberty offiudyinginske Library, 00000000 V : 
Ai things in tbe Colledge are at prefent , like to proceed even as wee cam 
wifb, may ir butpleafe tbe Lordto gee on with hi bleffing n C brij*, ana fiir 
apthe hearts of bisfaitbfuli, and able Seyvauts meur owne Native Couna 
try, and bere (as he bash gracionfly begun)10 advance this Fononrable and 
soft hopefail worke. The beginusags whercof and progreffe hitherto ( gene. 
rally) doc ame Day | 7 ya rn ard raifethem np 19 much mre expe- 
ation ef tbe Lords goodne fe for hereafter, for the good of vojissity, and she 
‘Charches of Chrift Hus. | ή 7 fti tegen ef) 3: | Adria 


~ 


LUNES 


^ Boston: in New England, 


σα oo aq friends, dc. 
“OL h Suqotq ς | 


.. ACopieof the Queftions given and maintained by the 
- Commencers in their pubtick Acts, priniec in. { 4m 


bridge in New-England, and reprinted here "verbatim, 


As 


_as followeth. 


Ne 


Y 
aie SACRA 


xis Abas tra μμ dod tos cate 


Teche QUA fessum sig e 


ALD AIAG UN KE ge 


ZW 


NN 


ea 


m 


SS LT 


A 


te | 


QM E 
oe 


IEE an 


i 


UE 


ο ο 


JN 


ellc POR 


1 


E 


la dest deis E eed, s SE 
SIVE 


AGERE 


CWE 
aS 


KOK 


Pree he cce ua mw oae y ud ea ence 


Pa) 


a 


ayes vs 
9 = 


- jt 


e 
ο D E Ἡ - E. 
BEM BRAT ONCE) NC NC 


y 


Hegde 


ο 


Bn 
Πηκ] 


εκ 


ex 


*-ferti Colonie Gubernatorz, B. Johann: Endicoito Vice- 


Gubernatori, D. Them, Dudleo, D. Rich. Bellinghamo, .—— 


D. Lean, Humphrydo, D. Hracl. Stonghtono. 


Nec non Reverendis pientiflimifque viris Jeanzi (ortono, Ioan, Wilfano, - 


Joan, Davenport, Tho. Weldo, Hugeni Petro, Tho. Sbepardo, Collegij 
Harvarden(is nov. Cantabr, in{peGioribus fdeliflimis, cxterilg; 
Magiftraubus, & Ecclefiarum ejufdem Colonix Pref- 


Oi! ον 1 byttris vigilantiffimis, , ¢ « ? 


. Has Thefes Philologicas,& Philofophicas,quas Deo duce,Prefide 
Henrico Dunftere. palam pro virili propugnare conabuntur.(ho- — 
noris ὃς obíervartiz gratia) dicant coniecranique in artibus 
liberalibus initiati Adolefcentes, 


Benjamin Weodbiigius, | H, enricus Saltonflall, | Nathaniel Bruflerss. 
Georgins Downingus ;— | Tobannes Bulkleins, | Samuel Belimgbamns, 
Gu helmsns Fubbotdu:, | lohannesWilfonns, | Tobias Bernardus. 


ση " [2 


& ho 


fei Philelogicas. 


GoOGRAMMATICAS.. 
Z4 Inguarum Scientia eft utiliflima. — 5270023 09 
EX 1 icere non exprimunt quantum vocis Organa efferunt. 
BC] 3. Hoebrza eft Linguarum Mater. 

Lem 4. Conionantes ὃς vocales Hebreorum funt coxtanee. 

n&ationes chatepnate {yllabam proprie non efficiunt. —— 
6. Linguarum Greca eft copicfitiima.. 
πό Lingna Graeca eft ad accentus pronüntianda. 

$. Lingua Latina eft clequentiflima. VARII bal te 


4 


a νο BERN WEY eZ cr NY. WE VES RS FED y m Rae 23 
EON SOSISOSI SESS SUSZ SOSA UST SO 


Spectatisfimis Pretate , et Muftrisfimis Eximia 
Virtute Viris, D. Johaani Wiutbropo , inclytz Maffachu- 


) 
i "RES sf dae N 
LL Ioas pe ID ο ο ο ο. 


ο RHETORICAS. 
X3 HetoticafpeciediffertaLogica. —— ^- 


In klocutione peripicuicati cedit ornatus, ornatu] Copia. 

3. Adio primastenct in pronuntiotione. —— 

| . 4. Oratoris eft celare Arcem, | 

Aie CTOGICAS.- 
"aNiveríalia non lunt extra 1ntellctum: 

: Omnia Argumenta funtrelata. —— | ; 
3. Caula [νε gue non non eft peculiaris caufa a quatuor reliquis gene- 
^o ralibus. Ne 5 inis | | το 
4. Caula & Effectus funt fimul tempore. | 

. 5. Dilientancatunt equenota. | | 
6. Contrarictas eft tancum inter duo, — 

- 7, Sublato relato tollitur correlatum. 3 
8. Genus perfectum aequaliter communicatur fpeciebus, 

ο. Teftimonium valet quantum teftis, ed ΑΙΜΑ 

το. Elenchorum doétrina in Logica non eft neceflaria. _ í 

11. Axioma contingens eft, quod ita verum eft, ut aliquando falfum 
efle poflit. | | | 


J OO TOV, 


΄ 


co dhefes Philofiphicas, 


"agar ο DE ETHICAS. 

| jy ior practica eft eruditions meta: 

ο τὰς Adho virtutis habitum ancecellits | ^ diode 

| ^$. Voluntás eft virtutis morali: fübjctum. dots 
-4. Voluntas eft formaliter libera. 
5 Prudentia virtutum difficillima. | 
^6. Prudenaa eft vircus intclle&ualis ὃς moralis. 
..7,. Juftitia mater omnium viitutum. | > 

ο 8. Mors potius fubeunda quam aliquid culpe perpetrandum. 


: e. Non injulte agit nifi qui libens agit. 
“ze. Menari poteft qui verum dicit. — , 
- 31. Juveni modeftia lummum Oraumentum. | 

EUR i AM. HN | PHYSE 


sae OG 
ACA MA INTE ANC WEG 


Ch wit D. vitas ere T LONG ECICU- es ee 
PALA NI IEA DEA LEED EDREAMS 


Ae ος Nn d ος n 
TX eA E rc iuis tos d Hen Con AE Sali CT 
Po d. FAS Neh 7 we 


ue ο ικα e ος 
DENN GP νεα νν κ Pe CT PR EX EN IX 
€ bs * 2 E «ο. Ἂ 
(1 9) AL 


πα, Praecepta Artium debent effe. κα 74/19 , wat PUES 


ποτ) 


TT 


ΗΝ XR LONE ea Mee πας SE 
iz — a POH 154 ΑΕ κ Ρας ΑΣ LI PAS IIR 
: | eremi erem eo κ ep ms ων GA cum Mp P αρ Mm. 
; ; Z^ : a ο AÀ--———— ^ 9 


DH Se 


AM GE cs anii e hdd 


τος 


ΚΟ 


a τν 
ατομα Ui AMCS ee OE 


» 


"9. in otni motu movens fimul eft-cum mobili. . 
, Io. Coelumnon movetur ab intelligentijs. 


: LCRA A ASBIUCTNCI εδ Die uim nta 
A ΛΙΡΑ SAN aR te PRET Ae De 


bs ae CPI SIU ASQ ο em 
C. Orpus naturale mobile eft {ubjectum Phificee, 
^. Materia fecunda non poteft exittere fine forma.  - 
34 Format accidens. ο ο E e Hos sau EN 
-4. Unius rei non eft nifi unica forma confüitütiva; ^-^ SEES 
5$. Porma eft principiumandividuationis. ni 
6. Privatio non eft principium internum. - 
7. Ex meris accidenabus non fic fubftantia. 
8. Quicquid movetur ab alio movetur. 


1r. Non dantur orbesinccelo. - ο με κε 
12. Quodlibet Elementum habet unam ex ‘primis qualitatibus fibi 
maximé propriam. ledere ds | κο n 


13. Putredo in humido fit a calore externo. ο ο μόνος 
I4. Animdanon fitex traduce. οκ ete eue Loo | 
15. Vehemens fentibile deftruit fenfum. LIDUIDOUIDD 1. o 1 
()Mx enseitbonim. o0 ο ud We 3 
w^ Omnecreatam eft concfetum. 7 00 10534 sig. ρα : 
3. Quicquid eternum idem ὃς immerfum. 1 
4- Bonum Metaphyficum non fufcipit gradus. | 


Íee whether he hath not engaged us to wait fillupon his goodneffe — | 
tor the future, by fuch further remarkable patiages ot his providence 


Thusfarre hatlothe good hand of God favoured our beginnings : 


to our Plantation'in {uch thingsas thefe : ” | Ho 
- 5 day H m NN i ; hi "S 3 1 

y 1: Iniwecping away great multitudes of the Natives by thefmall — 
Pox, alittle before we went thither, that he might make roomrfor E 
us there. Demos ο or ease e pes. - 
2. In giving fuch merveilous fafe Paffage from firft to lait, tofo 3 


many thoufands that went thither, thelike hath hardly been ever 


. Obfervedin any Sca-voyages. 


- 


3- In blesfing us generally with health and ftrength , ‘as much as 
ever (we mighc truly fay) more then ever in our Native-Land;many | 
that weretender and fickly here; are flronger and heartier chere, 
That wheras divert other Plantations have b: en the graves Lae - 

Ferg : CORRS E μι hash 


la Gr) 
 Tnhabitantsand their numbers much decreafed: God hath fo prof 
pered the climate tous, that our bodiesare hailer, and Children. 
there born ftronger.wherby our-number is exceedin ely 1ncreafed., 
4: In giving us fuch peace andtreedome trom enemies, when al- 


moftali che world is on a fire that(exceptine that fhorttrouble with: - 


the Pequits) weriever heard of any found ot Warres to thisday. And 
ο inthat Warre which we made agàinít them,Gods hand from heaven 
was {ο manifelted, that a very few of our men, ina fhort time, puríu- 
ed through the Wildernefle, flew and took pritoners about 1400 of 
them, even all they could find, : to the great terrour and amazement - 
ofall the Indians to thisday.: fo that the name ot the Pequits (as of 
- Amateck.) 1s blotted out from under heaven, there being not one that ' 
is,or;(at leaft)dare call himfelfe a Pequit. BUDE 
|. 5. In Lubduing thofe erronious opinions carryed over from hence - 
by fome of the Patlengers, which for a time intefted our Churches: 
| peace. but (through the goodnefle of God) by conference preaching, | 
a generall aflembly of Learned men, Magiltrates timely care, and 
Ιαν, by Gods own handtrom heaven, in moft remarkable ftroaks: 
|. upon fome of the chief fomenters of them; the matter came to {uch: 
an happie conclufion, thatmott of the {educed came humbly and 
 ¢onfetied their Errours in our publique Affemblics and abide to this. 
. day conftant in the Truth; the reft(that remained obftinate) finding . 
no fit market there to vent their wares, departed from usto anand 
farre off; tome of whom alío fince that time, have repented and re- 
turned to us, and are received againe into our bofomes. And from. 
that time not any unfound, untavourie.and eiddie fancie have dared - 
to lift up his head, or abide‘thelight ámonett us. "div. 
σι In fettling and bringing civil matters to fuch a maturity ina 
‘Short time amongft us having planted 5o. T ownes and Villages;bu:lt 
39.0r 4o. Churches, and more Minifters houfes;a Caftle;a Colled ge 
. Pfiions. Forts, Cartwaies;Caufies many;and all thefeu pon our owne - 
_ charges,no publique hand reaching out any helpe: having comfott- 
able Houfes: Gardens, Orchards; Grounds fenced; Corne fields: &c. 
and {uch a forme and face ef à Common wealth appearing in all the - 
Plantation; «hat Strangers fromiother parts; {εσείς how much’is- 
dene ia fo few yeares, have wondredat Gods blesfing on our indea- 
yours. | 2111-10 HOIS21 VO (1211 BG EC [ 
|  7-Ingiving£uch plenty of all manner of Food in a Wilderneffe 
| gefomuch, that all kinds of Flefh amongft che reft, tore of Venifon 
e SEO T : 2 jn: 


* 


AE 


WT 


Jee 


GS NGS us a9 SS 


JScisejse 


"di 
ji 


ER E NS 
nC) 


Jo) 


ae 


"La 


SURE GN Sce 
Gru arcc co whi ΩΙ. 


— 


2 


d Ris 


[» armpits Nes oth n eae LIE! at atu AEE nox ; 
TETTE ETAVETANTETNCEUSVRUNVETNURTNTETUNI, 


anits faafon. Eiffi both from Sca and Ere(h water. Fowle ofall kinds. — ^ 
wild.& tame; ftore of Whit- Meale,together with alltorts of Enghifl. ,— | 
Graine, a{well as Indian , are plentifuil amongtius ,asalfoRootess | | 
Herbs and Fruit, which being better digeffed by che Sun, are farre — | 
iorefaire;pleaíantand wholiome then here... | uto o 


/.:8; Ln prolpering Hempe apnd. Flaxe fo well that: its. frequently: ; 
(owen: {pun, and woven intolinnen Cloath: (and. in a fhorc time ; 
may fervefor Cordage) and fo with Cotcon-wooll, (which we may: , 
bave.at very reafonablerates from the Παπάς) and our linnen Yarnes , 
we.can make. Dimittees and Fuftions for our Summer cloathings. 
And having amatter of a 1000, Sheep, which proíper.wel l; to. begin. 
withall, ina competent tune we hope to have wollen Cloath there- 
made. And great and {mall Catteli being now very. frequently killd. : 
for food; their skins will afford us Leather for Bootsand Shoes, and _ 
ae ules: fothat God is leading us by che hand.nto a; way of cloa- ; 
thingss 5:3: i 7 dodo VA ES 
το, In affording us many materialls, (which in part already aresand . 
will in time further be improved)tor Staple commodities, to fupply { 
all other defects: Α΄ IRR | Cecil : 


-. T, Furres, Dever, Otter, &c. xi L1 

2. Clapboord;Hoops,Pipeftaves, Mafts, do Val 

τον Englifh Wheat and other graine. for: Speineand Wett Indies; . 

andallotherprovifions for Victualling of Shippes. = 

_. 4. FifhasCod,Haddock, Herrings, Mackerill, Batle;Stutgeon; 

Seales, Whale:,Sea-horte. t d hs ris 

«. Oyle of fundry forts,of Whale;Sea-horíe, &c. πα pM 

-. ^6. Pitchand Tarre, Rofenand. Turpentine, having Pines, 

Spruce, and Pitch-treesin our Countrey to make thefeon. » n 

- 5. Hempeand Είχε... .. nom bins asriagud ey RO 
...& Minerallsdifcovered and. proved; as of Iron in fundry places; 
- Black-lead (mány other in hopes) for the 1m roving of which; we, 
..-ate now. about to carry over Servants and inftruments withus, ος 
ος 9. (Befides many Boates,ShallopssHows,. Lighters, Piunaces) ; 

. We ate in away-of building Sliippes;of an 100:200;360-400:tünng;'- 
- sivaof them are alteady at Sca;many more in handat this prefents!, 

we being much incouraged herein by reafon of the plenty amd; — | 

- excelléncie οὗ οὗ. Timber for that urpofe; and. fceingallithe: 

yp materiallswill behadthereinfhort times 22 τος 62g j3 


* 


RR 
3 


^ * 


& 
E 


v 


3 
NES 2 7 3 JAVA AW AV. dm ow | ασ 9 : "T Ee za : 
2 EO S LA VGL VS SF UNT IAN ΝΑ ΛΑ ΑΛΑ ΝΑ 
σετ ος ποσα εδ Oar Ry —— - UNS 
TES εκ ακομα cre CIC RE ος 


EX BNA Μος WES A NIE AD NZ νὸ Μόνα λ 


M c, ΝΟ 
i 


(a 2 : T i NE Loo 


-.30. In giving of fuch Magiftrates,as are allof them godly menjand 
members ot our Churches, who countenance thofe that be good.and 
punifh evill doers, that a vile perfon dares not litt up bis head ; nor 
need a godly man to hang it down, that (to Gods praife be it {poken) 
one may live therefrom ycare to yeare, and not fee a drunkard, hearé 


ο] 


an oath,or meet a begger. Now where finne js punifhed, and judge- 


ment executed, God is wont to blefle that place, andprotectit, P/4/, 


106.30,ler.5. 1, lof. 7.25 with 8.1.e Fonira €j4.20 AI. 
- 11. In ftoring that place with very many of his ewn people, and 
diverf¢-ot them eminent for godlinefle.. Now where his people are, 
there is his prefence, and Promife to be ix the middeft of them, a mighty 
Gedo (ave, and to joy over them with faging, y4 eph. Αν | t 

- 12. Aboveail our other blesfings, in planting £z ex» Name, and 
precivia Ordinances among us ; (we {peak it humbly, and in his feare) 
our indeavour is to have all his own Inititutions, and no more then 
hisown.and all thofe in their native fim plicity without any humane 


dresfings; having a liberty to injoy all that God Commands, and yet ΄ 


urged co nothing more then he Commands. Now Where foever be 
records bis Name,thither he willcome and Mele, EX. 20,24. 

Which promife he eath already performed to very many foules,in 
their effectual converfion to Chrift, and the edification of othersin 
their holy Faith: who daily bleffe God that ever he carried them in- 
to thofe paris. 


All which blesfings named welookeu pon.as an earneft-penny of 
moretocome. Ifwefecke his face, and ferve his Providence, wee 
haveno cauíe to doubt, that he for his part will faile to make f{ealo- 
nable fupplies unto us. | 

x. By fome meanes to carry on to their perfection our fla ple 
trades begun. | - 

2. By Additions of Ammunition and Powder. | 
^3. By maintenance of Schooles of Learning. efpecially the Col 
ledge, as alfoadditions of building to it.and furnifhing the Library. 

4. By ftirring up fome well-minded to cloath and traniport o- 
ver poore children roe and Girles, which may be a great mercy 
to their bodies and foules, and a help to us, they eing luper abun- 
dant here, and we wanting hands to carry on our trades, manufa- 
&ure and husbandry there. : Bs 

$. By ftirring up fome to thew mercy to the diens, in affording 
maintenance to fome of our rd active young Schollars,' there to 


make 


BSN 


cow] CRS I ere Es BS OS Ss 6 E uc ee 
AE A A NT Λο ARMAR / EAE, INCOME, Λο Αλ 


iil te iia iia te 
SSS Set ae see x E Re a 


V ND 


-———— sad 


HEISE SE Sese 


€ 


E 


E 


—€—— 
SE AR SIEG «3 
ANZ ISSN 


ci 


Μώλος, 
so 


SS = c EL τες 
TOM t 

ho ORENSE 

VAS NEA 

Cas, LY 


SEA: 


Was 


SWAY aN ANE RR eR MY ANY Αν. ΑΙ RBG AEM AIO hy AE Ap 
ud Esch AE 
snake it their worke to ftudie eor language converfe with them. 
and carry light amongft them, that fo the Gotpell: might be Ípread 
into thoíe darke parts ofthe world... το ο τος Αλλα. 
, O5. But all your own coft and ours alfo will be loft, becaufe there 
can be no fubtrftence theretor any long title. Fore aul vaca 
1, Yourgroundisbarren, ~~ ee V) to di 
(ελ, 1. Ifyou fhould fce our goodly Corne-fields, neere har- 
γα, you would anfwer this your felte. Secondly, how-conld it be 
thin, that we fhould have Engh, Wheat at 4.5 .per bufhell, and /»4i- 
a" at 2.5, and thisnot only for ready money, but in way of exchange, 
Thirdly, chat in a wildernefle 1n fo few yeares, we fhould have eorne 
URSI our felves and our friends that come over, and much to 
ολοι week eR a Να D: kir enn inm I POO ISI. 
ins O?j, Your ground will not continue above 3-or 4 yeares to 
ανν, Our ground hath been fowne and planted with cormetheíe — 
7.10. *2,yeares already by our felves, and (which is more than can 
bedaidhere of Εσίρ Land(never yet fummer tild : but have borne 
| €orno, every yearcfince we firft went , and the fame ground planted 
as long by the ναι before, and yet have good crops-upon itll, 
and 1s like to continué as ever: Butthis is,(as mary other flanders 
 &gainft that good Land) againft all fenfe, reafon and experience. - 

.3: O67. But you haveno money there. tg aton1 ot 
<infw. _Tt’s true we have not much,though fomé thete is, but wee 
having thofe ftaple commodities named, they will (811. as they . 
are improved fetch nioney from other parts. Ships, Fifhijrom, — 
Pipettaves, Corn, Bever, Oyle, &c. will help us with:mohey and'o- 
ther things allo. dier a 9 OF SO SBOE emot vd oy 
2. Littl» money is raifed in coyne in England, how then comes it 


b 
» 


e 


‘to abound, but by this meane : ey A abb vilis 
3. We can.trade amongft our felyes by way of exchange;oné com- - 
wgodity for another. and fo doe utually.... 4... o 2 ieee seh 
4. 087, Youarelike to want clothes hereafter. - ie s 
Anfw. x. Yynnen Fuftians, Dimettees we are makirig-already.- 
Secondly; $ heepeare comtming on for woollen cloath. Th irdlyin: 
meane time we may be füpplied by way of tradeto otlier parts;'ath. . 
Cordevant, Deere, Scale; and Moofe Skins. (which arebedttsassbig: - 
‘Oxen, and their.skins are buffe) are there to be had »plentifully , _ 
“hich will help this way {pecially tor fervants cloathing: -° - ‘Ob. q 


: εδ 
ri 3 


* 


32" Car a - κ : 2 enr T "S X ENS X3 — H - — 
NS ps PAS n S Ἂν N DRI SIAN US AN. Αν WS 


Nor-Weff : büt it holds not lou 


ES AS AN MS ACES AS is 7 


MAS Ran SERERE ME ER A t 
GONE EP cee ae ee ν 


dM ον ΜΜΑ ερ ἰἂν cce oo De 
αι True, at fometines when the wind blowes ftrong at 


4 


8 4 


Serer: Sea ee 4 ψιλά 1 y pA RAE 
ry noderatétor a good fpace. Birk the coldaciie being net naturall 


| (that place being 42. degrees) but accidentall.. Secondly. The cold 


there 15no iinpediment to health, buc very wholtoinefor our bo. 
dies, infomuch that all torts generally, wcake and trong had. (carce 
ever. fuch meafure of health 1n all their lives.as there. p hitdly,tts 
not a moult and foggie cold, as in Heiland,and tome parts of Evgiand, 


but bright.cleare, and taire wether, that menare feldome troubled 
jn Winter with coughes and Rheumes, | Fourchly, it hinders not our 


imployment; for people are able to worke or. travell utually all the 
Winter long. {0 there is no lófle of time; fimiplyin reípect ot the 
cold. Fittly good fires(wood being {ο plentfullwall make amends. — 
4,6... O^. Many are growne weaker in their eftates fince they went 
ONC μι ams ή. boaoineigdkedo DE 
Arf. Are not diveríe in London broken in their Eftates ? and many 
in England are growne poore, and choufands goe a. begging. (yet wee 


never {awa beggar there) and will any taxe the City or Kingdome, 


and fay they are unfubfiitable places? -.. . »- tatis 
~ Secondly their Eftates now lie in houfes,, Lands; Hortfes,' Cattel, 
Corne.&c.though they have not fo much money as they, had bere; 
and fo cannot make appearance of their wealth to thofe in England, 
yet they have it ftill, to that their Eftates are not loft,but changed. 
3. Some mens Eftates may be weaker through great and να com- 
mon charges,which the firít planters eípecially have binat.in make- 
ing the place tubfiftable and comfortable , which now others reape 
the fruit of, unknowne fummes:lye buried underground in fuchr a 


worke as tha: 1s. | | | 
4. Some may be poore, (fo we aye fure) many arerich,that carri- 


| ed nothingat ail. that now have Houfe.Land, Corne,Cattel,&c.and 
fuch as carry fomething are much encreated..~ vocem 


7. Ob. Many tpeake evill ofthe place. 
"sf. Did not tome doe fo of the Land of Cawaan it felfe.yet Cana- 
au was never the worfe.and themfelves {marted for fo doing.Second-. 


ly.fome have been punithed there for their Delinquencies,or reftrai- 
- ned from their exorbitances ; or difcountenanced for their ill opi- 


nions and not fufferd to vent their ftuffe : and hence being difpleàt-- 
ed take revenge by flanderous report. Thirdly, Let fuch ifany fuch 
there be as have ought to alleadge.deale fairely and above board, and 


"Be? D. 2" cor, a4 


ORIG AEE 


together. and then it uieta to be νο 


5 er i os RE D 


οκ 


NM αν 


a M Ur Rs 
—U 02 
η Fv 


«ome and juftife any thing againít che Country to our faces. while — 
we arehere to aniwer, buc Lich never yet appzared in any of our - 
preíence to avouch any ching in chis kunde nor (we beleive) dare do 
1c ο ΗΕ +68 8 ώς OEE νὰ ο - 
8. Ob, Why doe many comeaway from thence ? | 
4infv. Doe not many remove trom one Country to another , and 

-yet nonelikes the Country the Icfle becaufe {tome depart from ic? 
Secondly, few that we know of intend toabide here; but doe come 
on {ome fpeciall bufines, and purpote toreturne. Thirdly of them 
that are come hither to flay, (on our knowledge} fome of the wife 
repent them already, and with themt{cives there againe Fourthly.as 
fome went thither upon tudden undigefted grounds, and iaw not 
God leading them in their way, but were carryed by an unffaycd 
{pirst.fo have they returned upon as fleighe.headicile, unworihy réa- 
fon; as they went.: Fittly, others mutt have elbow-roome, and can- 
not ábideto be fo pinioned with the ftri Government in the Cem- 
mon-wealib, or Ditcipline in the Church, now why fhould fuch live . 
there; as Ireland will not brooke venemous beafts, fo will net that 
Land vile perfons, and loofe livers. Sixtly, though fome few have 
removed trom them, yet ‘we may truly fay) thoufands as wife as 
B would net change their place for any other in che 
Wor © : t S: 


" T 
9 a » Por t ο αἱ ος οκ Μάμα δω d oem s TE 
fe ub ido SN Nar ri E dif a oy aE " Lime. E 


RO D dus 
4 


VN 


i ών e , 3 1 > » 2 I LE 
[ws D 1 AX OR 3 JG DAT OM TN TAN SETA T NDS : 
27 Αν ΑΝ Na TING II ΛΑ ΑΛΑ Ας Αλ OSGI ONIN 


κρεμ ae VanVanYonvactar acta 


= 


S$ 4i E. 


AIS) 


"7 


AW 


Ze EAC OLE 


yes 


καν 


A 


a 


AX: 


Kalte ta mn gi oi 


^ 


"T 


πμ μη 
" screens IAN uU Em 


i 
H 
uz 
" 

; 


I AAT alm επ ο IE ir Spo m EE ea 
ο να... 


υπ.” 


ο ο ο”... 
RUA CN ALY RAN PSA FN FMLA ΩΩ PNE XIC PUTA 


