iasese sate als 
Spent hens 
ere iieg 


eineey 


Frise eee rae 


cs J hdied, payee ee 
Sede mos pea 


ET Si Spay asia 


Cndaet ¢ Bes 
Tel ase 


sts: 


xpeesp een 


coat 


4) tte | ik at ae atin Verda Pen Me i WA AC ies 
a stretch of the upper Connecticu 


Later known as ‘‘ Great Interva 


Merrimac 
Newbury, 


( Haverhill 


Blaxton’s Point, Noddle’s Isla 
‘Tompson’s Island, Castle Isla 
Governor’s Island, Isle of Sla 
Mert™ Beis, se ey . Se all within Boston Bay. 


° 
Andover Topsfield® Gloucester 


a h Wenham® Manchester 
i> ~ Salem Village Oe 

Fai Duwere. Bev erly 

Billerica 


° 
Reading tar piigtlowsd 


Mt.Wollaston5~, 9© 
Merry Mount & Hingham 
Braintree ~ Wessagusett 
© Medfield Weymouth 


Hatfield, 


© Hadley 
Northampton = 


Ns 
j RN 
ba ’ r Ry 


> Agawarn 
Springfield 
& 


ete ae wn nw ee ee 


o Enfield 


oat, Y — Stratford LG 
{Fairfield CAS 


os 


= FE 

Simsbury® x 

Windsor s 

j o Newtown J¢> 

Y » Hartford © 

Les - Farmingtono ce . 
ASH Pyquag ‘ 
gS H Wethersfieldf P ® @ Y O ai 
ge G10 N N E © T 1 Gti 
7 ke : feet 
AGE ¥\\ Middletown Coen ie 
a a i Haddame\ COUNT R 
SA “& ; ; 
a De : ey oy Tae 
, H A> | > New Lond 
| ok le, ae ! Q ® Mach ae brook Lyme i] 


bee 
oe 


Aaah 


NEW 


SPUYTEN DUYVILAg 
KINGSBRIDGE 37” 


New Amstsdsve PAA, 


New YorReee 


Piscatagus x 
N E/W ¢. Suth Ose 
Pie Portsme¢ uth a 


Ryeo 


? Excester? Berg 
{ # HAMP/SHIRE Eccter BOS 
L Whew Hampto 

d A NORFOLK : 

< nee NAS és 


“ny 


AE NU 
Salisbury, 
Ul 


R. 
9 
° Ee  g 
Dunstable o Andover cite.” 
G By SR Ae, Gloucester 
eae 3 satem Villa = 
7~ Salem Village, 
Chelmsford SS Dace: : 
Harvard FES Naumkeag Ya Marblehead 
: Cc so Salem © = 
q oncord , 
Lancaster M1DDLESEX\ Malden 
DM U SSE T S. Newtoun MASSACHUSETTS 
= gah pire BAY 
: Marlborough 


o Worcester 


Weymouth_f 
Marshfieldo 
i & Duxbury 9,1 


Ss 


}en-neeeeenn- ge Z Kingston °= 


Plymouth . D 
a e cas 
) 2 ) Middleborough 
\ \e Providente a NEW mn 
i> RHODE 


oe 


PSO OVarmouth 
eo, 2 A ECAPE MALABAR 
Barnstable Gia. g TUCKERS TERROUR 


POINTE CARE f 


=*- Newport ~ 
ISLE OF PROVIDENCE 
PRUDENCE ISLE 


NEW ENGLAND 


‘*’.. done in the best Pattern that could be had, which 
being in some places defective, it made the others less 
exact: yet doth it sufficiently shew the Scituation of the 
Countrey, and conveniently well the distance of Places.”’ 


from map published in 1677 by Wm. Hubbard. 
mel” 


The Journey of Madam Knight 


© 
Bw, 


unuusuzsct: Portion of Long Island under q NY 
Connecticut jurisdiction until 1664 mi) 


Drawn by HAGSTROM COMPANY, WN. Y. 


AMERICAN LITERATURE SERIES 


HARRY HAYDEN CLARK, GENERAL EDITOR 


Mr, Richard Mather. 


Reproduced from Increase Mather’s The Life and Death of . . . 
Richard Mather. 


THE PURITANS 


PERRY MILLER 


HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
AND 


THOMAS H. JOHNSON 


LAWRENCEVILLE SCHOOL 


NEW YORK CINCINNATI CHICAGO 


AMERICAN BOOK COMPANY 


BOSTON ATLANTA DALLAS SAN FRANCISCO 


CopyRIGHT, 1938, BY 
AMERICAN BOOK COMPANY 


All rights reserved 


MILLER AND JOHNSON’s THE PURITANS 
BH. P.1 


Mape In U.S.A. 


FOR 


SAMUEL ELIOT MORISON 


Liberalt liberaliter instituendt 


23 FOREWORD 


Jonathan Edwards cautioned himself in his Notes on Natural 
Science: “‘What is prefatorial, not to write in a distinct preface, or 
introduction, but in the body of the work; then I shall be sure to 
have it read by every one.” The editors of the following selections 
have been mindful of his warning, and they here need merely to say 
that the volume portrays the Puritans who settled New England and 
those of the next two generations who lived there. The focus of the 
work has been Puritanism in the seventeenth century, when the word 
had a comparatively definite meaning, and in only one respect has 
any effort been made to trace the modifications of it in the eighteenth 
century. The selections from the writings of Jonathan Mayhew have 
been included for the purpose of giving a continuous view of political 
theory. Otherwise the consistent aim has been restriction to what might 
be called “‘pure”’ Puritanism, leaving later ramifications to be traced 
out elsewhere. It has for that reason been thought wise to leave the 
greatest of all Puritan intellectuals, Jonathan Edwards, to be studied 
in the context of his different intellectual environment. 

To the end that the elusive terms Puritan and Puritanism should be 
clearly defined, at least in so far as they apply to the colonizers of 
America and their spiritual descendants, the selections have been 
grouped into chapters;—divisions which most naturally provide op- 
portunity for discussion of all phases of Puritan ways and ideas, with 
such emphasis, selectivity, and proportion as seem representative and 
true. The General Introduction attempts to view Puritanism as_a 
whole: to mete its boundaries, fix its location, supply guides to its 
monuments, and establish that unity which so clearly runs in Puritan 
thought, expression, and manners. 

It has seemed best to let the Puritans speak for themselves as much . 
as possible, for they were not a reticent people, nor were they wanting 
in ideas. As A‘lfric remarked in the foreword to his Lives of the Saints: 
“We say nothing new in this work, for it all stood written long ago, 
albeit laymen did not know it.’? Much that the Puritans wrote has 
been deservedly forgotten, but the dust has gathered as well upon the 
works of some who, when brought into the light of the present, appear 
to have been powerful instruments in working out the social and po- 
litical, as well as the religious and cultural, destiny of America. It 
therefore seemed wiser to give in general ample passages from a few 


pivotal documents, rather than to go wide afield in an effort merely 
vii 


Vill Foreword 


to extend the list of Puritan writers. The editors are aware that no 
American today can read a Puritan work without having a definite 
opinion of the author, and they in their turn have not been reticent 
in the introductory portions about speaking their minds; yet the larger 
purpose has been to supply enough of the Puritan literature itself to 
let each reader judge for himself. 

The texts throughout follow the earliest edition, or the most ac- 
curately printed when the first seems inadvisable. Spelling and punc- 
tuation are reproduced exactly, except that the modern “‘s” has been 
uniformly adopted, and obvious printers’ errors corrected. It should 
be stated that the map of New England which forms the end-papers 
of the volume, while based mainly upon the accurate surveys of more 
recent times, has been constructed to show certain features of the 
coast-lines and harbors as indicated by a study of many old maps, 
some of them published near the close of the Puritan period. 

The editors have collaborated closely, and each has contributed 
something to almost every section; but the major task of preparation 
and annotation was divided, and final responsibility for expression of 
opinion must rest as follows: ““The Puritan Way of Life’’ in the General 
Introduction, and Chapters I, IT, III, and V are the work of Perry 
Miller; ““Che Puritans as Literary Artists’? in the General Introduction, 
and Chapters IV, VI, VII, VIII, and IX are the work of Thomas H. 
Johnson. 

First of all the editors wish to express their gratitude to Professor 
Harry Hayden Clark, the general editor of the series of which this 
volume is a part. It was he who first proposed the idea of the under- 
taking, and his assistance and encouragement have been constant 
and generous. They also wish to thank the Librarians and the staffs 
of Harvard College Library, Boston Public Library, the Massachusetts 
Historical Society, Princeton University Library, and New York Public 
Library for innumerable courtesies, always graciously extended. The 
demands on Mr. Gerald D. McDonald, Head of the Reserve Room 
of the last named institution, have been especially importunate, and 
always met with unfailing skill. Dr. Erdman Harris and Mr. Hugh 
King Wright have been good enough to read through and offer helpful 
suggestions about the chapters of the text prepared by Thomas H. 
Johnson. Perry Miller is indebted to Professor F. O. Matthiessen for 
his generous assistance in reading the introductory material and ad- 
vising in the whole construction of the volume; he has also profited 
largely from the help of Professor David Prall, Dr. Richard B. Schlatter, 
and Mr. Edmund 8S. Morgan. To Catherine Rice Johnson and Eliza- 


Foreword 1X 


beth Williams Miller the debt is truly immense, for without their help 
the book could hardly have reached completion. 

The editors’ reliance upon the work of Professor Samuel Eliot Mori- 
son is testified by the frequent citation of his name in the Introduction 
and the notes; but the debt goes even further, and is acknowledged 
elsewhere. 

v Der M: 
TosH Je 


Illustrations 


Nap ol .Néw, England (3 0°) © So Oe Oe ere iperpers 

Poctrait.of Richard Mather 000) | 7 Ae tae title pape 
Letter of John Winthrop to‘His Wife. . . . . page 80 

Title Page of Nathaniel Ward’s The Simple Cobler . page 180 

Page of samuel Sewall’s. Diary: |. 0. -5. ne page ago 

Letter of Margaret Winthrop to Her Husband . . page 458 

Page of Edward Taylor’s Manuscript . . . . page 664 


Broadside of Theses for a Harvard Commencement, 
eG ec taia Veet ah On een uty NEMEeS eines PRR rn! Che Bees Ee 


The Map of New England has been prepared especially for this 
volume. The page of Taylor’s manuscript is reproduced through the 
courtesy of Yale University Library. All the other reproductions are 
by courtesy of the Massachusetts Historical Society. 


Contents 


GENERAL INTRODUCTION 


I. THe Purirran Way oF LIFE 
1. The Puritan in His Age, 1 
2. The Spirit of the Age, 5 
3. Puritan Humanism, 19 
4. The Essential Issue, 41 
5. Estimations, 55 


II. Tue Purirans As LITERARY ARTISTS 

Chapter I 
HISTORY . Mioivelh RMA ik i! 
Readings 


WILLIAM BRADFORD 
History of Plymouth Plantation, gt 


THOMAS SHEPARD... 

A Defence of the Answer, 118 
FRANCIS HIGGINSON 

New Englands Plantation, 123 
Joun WINTHROP 

Journal: The Landing at Salem, 126, 

The Antinomian Crisis, 129 

EDWARD JOHNSON . 

Wonder-working Providence, 143° 
Cotton MATHER... 

A General Introduction, 163 


Chapter II 


THE THEORY OF THE STATE AND OF 
SOCIETY 


Readings 


Joun WINTHROP 
A Modell of Christian Charity, 195 
A Defence of an Order of Court, 199 
Journal, 202 
Speech to the General Court, 205 
Joun CorTrTon . 
Letter to Lord Say and Seal, 209 
Limitation of Government, 212 
xi 


64 


81 


go 
Ey 


122 


125 


143 


162 


181 


194. 


207 


X1i | Contents 


RoGeER WILLIAMS... a iodine Tae tan A Se? ee ae 
The Bloudy Tenent of Persecution, 216 
Letter to the Town of Providence, 224 


NATHANIEL WARD... Me Rea hh ee 
The Simple Cobler of Ageawam, 226. 

JONATHAN MITCHELL. . Aacrae beams ht elon) Lampang 
Nehemiah on the Wall, 237 

WILLIAM STOUGHTON. . MMC yey piled AUT A teas se 
New-Englands True Interest, 243, 

WILLIAM HUBBARD. MR et eds Sar Site Wali | 
The Happiness of a People, 247 | 

SAMUEL WILLARD... TOR ig CTE RUE NAN eas kgm ae 
The Character of a Good Ruler, 2 50 

BUOEING VISE oy i od a ee RL) Ge eal Re 
Vindication, 257 

Joun BARNARD. DSDHA DBE Ai one 20), 
The Throne Established by Righteousness, 270 

JONATHAN MAYHEW . Se eae 


A Discourse concerning ‘Unlimited Submission, 277 


Chapter III 


THIS WORLD ‘AND THE.NEXT.. 20) Leder 
Readings 
Tuomas Hooker .. ile tice t tie th Gal UES EN ete en nCs 


A True Sight of Sin, 292 

Meditation, 301 

Wandering Thoughts, 306 

Repentant Sinners and Their Ministers, 309 


JouHn CoTron.. . Ree Eris (NO mPRR NEU A Rd abies | 
Swine and Goats, 314 
Hypocrites and Saints, 316 
Wading in Grace, 318 
Christian Calling, 319 
‘Purchasing Christ, 327 


INCREASE MATHER. fe ee ae an 
Predestination and Human Exertions, 335 
Man Knows Not His Time, 340 
Sleeping at Sermons, 348 

UrRIAN OAKES... ai fy aha 
The Sovereign Efficacy of Divine Providence, 3 50 


Josuua Moopy anc oR Yili pyaee! Leis a Sean eee 
Souldiery Spiritualized, 367 | 


Contents 


SAMUEL WILLARD... 
Saints Not Known by Externals, 369 
The Death of a Saint, 371 
Degenerating New England, 374. 


SAMUEL SEWALL 
Phenomena, 376 


Chapter IV 


MANNERS, CUSTOMS, ‘AND BEHAVIOR. 
Readings | 


Joun SMITH 
The Sea Marke, 395 
Advertisement for the Unexperienced Planters, 396 


Tuomas LECHFORD 
Plain Dealing, 401 


JASPER DANCKAERTS 
Journal, 404 


INCREASE MATHER 


.An Arrow against Profane and Promiscuous Dancing, 4x I 


Joun Dunrton . 
Letters, 414 


SARAH KEMBLE KNIGHT. . j 
The Journal of Madam Knight 42 5 


Jos—ePpH GREEN. . 
Extracts from Diary, 448 


Cotton MATHER. . 
The Accomplished Singer, AST 


SOLOMON STODDARD 
An Answer to Some Cases of Conscience, 454. 


Chapter. V 


BIOGRAPHIES AND LETTERS. 
Readings 


Joun WINTHROP . 
Letters of the Winthrops, 465 


‘THOMAS SHEPARD . 
Autobiography, 471 


RocER WILLIAMS . 
Letters, 4.75 


Xill 


459 


465 
471 


475 


XIV Contents 


INCREASE MATHER 25, 54 SRR SAA) Sage eA 
The Life of Richard Mather, 489 

Cotton MATHER. . sa Te POO EES ee MS Sit oc Oe meen TEER as 
Life of John Eliot, 497 

DAMUBLM DE WALD \05 (¥a0 (Fi. ig ce heh ee eg oes 
Diary, 511 

Joun WiLiiaMs PE Ramer re eee he WR un Mee 


The Redeemed Captive, 530 


EBENEZER TURELL . he Lo) SRY epee) cabs ae Bt ata Seen 
Benjamin Colman, 536° 
Jane Turell, 541 


Chapter VI 

MO TRG tine AE NER eae eet ae ee ee ea 

Readings | 

JoHn WILson .. wh 3 iit gay te Wg led Se edt ih a Ne i sean eae ge! 
The London Plague, 553 

HM DAY PSALM BOOK. 4 i. ii ve ab as cider eel ee 
Psalms, 556 | : 

PANINENSDRADETREET a2 72 6 4Co "Os Lea ba roo uae aera eek i 
Spring, 562 


Contemplations, 564 

The Flesh and the Spirit, 570 

To My Dear and Loving Husband, 573 
A Letter to Her Husband, 573 
Meditations, 574 

Longing for Heaven, 579 


NATHANIEL WARD, JOHN ROGERS, AND JOHN NoRTON . . 580 
On Mrs. Bradstreet’s ‘Tenth Muse (Ward), 580 
Upon Mrs. Anne Bradstreet (Rogers), 581 
A Funeral Elogy (Norton), 583 


MIGHAEE WIGGLESWORTH | y0ym. bie) es pes) Ney ee eel 
A Prayer, 586 | 
The Day of Doom, 587 
A Short Discourse on Eternity, 606 
A Song of Emptiness, 608 
God’s Controversy with at Re 611 
“Meat Out of the Eater, 616 
Light in Darkness, 624 
Strength in Weakness, 626 
Poor Men’s Wealth, 626 
Heavenly Crowns for Thorny Wreaths, 628 


EDWARD [OHNSON P20 edie ay a 
Two Epitaphs, 630 | 


Contents 


SAMUEL BRADSTREET AND DANIEL RUSSELL 


Two Almanac Poems, 632 


BENJAMIN 'TOMPSON 
New Englands Crisis, 636 


URIAN OAKES . 
An Elegy, 641 


EDWARD TAYLOR . 
Poetical Works, 651 
Sacramental Meditations, 655 


RocGer WoLcOoTT . . 
Poetical Meditations, 658 
A Brief Account of Winthrop, 659 


MATHER BYLEs .. 
An Hymn to Christ, 663 


Chapter VII 


LITERARY THEORY 
Readings 


Tue Bay Psatm Boox 
The Preface, 670 


THOMAS HOOKER . 


A Survey of the Summe of Church Discipline, 672 


MicHAEL WIGGLESWORTH. 
The Prayse of Eloquence, 674. 


Cotton MATHER . 
Psalterium Americanum, 678: 


Joun BULKLEY. 
Wolcott’s Poetical Meditations, 681 


Cotton MATHER. . 
Of Poetry and Style, 684 


MATHER BYLEs ... 
Bombastic and Grubstreet Style, 689 


Chapter VIII 
EDUCATION Sica 
Readings 


New ENGLANDs First FRUuITs 
In Respect of the College, 701 


CHARLES CHAUNCY 
A Commencement Sermon, 705 


XV 


631 


635 
640 


650 


657 


662 


665; 


669 


672 
673 
678 
680 
684 


689 


695 


700 


704 


yi OPO 
LEONARD Hoar .. 
Letter to His Nephew, 708 


THOMAS SHEPARD, JR. . 
Letter to His Son, 715 


INCREASE MATHER. 
A Presidential Address, 721 


Cotton MATHER. . 
An Elegy on Ezekiel Cheever, 722 
Some Special Points Relating to Education, 724 


Chapter IX 


SCIENCE . 
Readings 


SAMUEL DANFORTH 
An Astronomical Description, 438 


Joun WINTHROP, JR. . 
Letter concerning Some Natural Curiosities, 740 


Tone HIOAR 3. 
Letter to Robert Boyle, "742 


NoapiAH RussELL AND WILLIAM WILLIAMS 
Concerning Lightning and Thunder, 744 
Concerning the Nature of Comets, 745 


PAUL DUDLEY .. 
Method of Making Maple ec 47 
Method for Discovering where Bees Hive, 748 


Cotron MATHER. . 
The Christian Philosopher, 750 


Tuomas BRATTLE... 
The Witchcraft Delusion, 7 58 


ZABDIEL BOYLSTON. 
The Way of Proceeding i in Small Pox, 763 


NOTES 
BIBLIOGRAPHIES . 
INDEX . 


~ Contents 


797 
714 
720 


721 


729 


738 
739 
742 


744 
747 


750 
758 
762 
765 


785 
835 


f 


PURITANS 


28 INTRODUCTION 


I. Tue Purrran Way oF LIFE 


1. The Puritan in Mis Age 


PURITANISM may perhaps best be described as that point of view, 
that philosophy of life, that code of values, which was carried 
to New England by the first settlers in the early seventeenth cen- 
tury. Beginning thus, it has become one of the continuous factors 
in American life and American thought. Any inventory of the 
elements that have gone into the making of the ““American mind” 
would have to commence with Puritanism. It is, indeed, only 
one among many: if we should attempt to enumerate these tra- 
ditions, we should certainly have to mention such philosophies, 
such “isms,” as the rational liberalism of Jeffersonian democracy, 
the Hamiltonian conception of conservatism and government, the 
Southern theory of racial aristocracy, the Transcendentalism of 
nineteenth-century New England, and what is generally spoken 
of as frontier individualism. Among these factors Puritanism 
has been perhaps the most conspicuous, the most sustained, and 
the most fecund. Its role in American thought has been almost the 
dominant one, for the descendants of Puritans have carried at 
least some habits of the Puritan mind into a variety of pursuits, 
have spread across the country, and in many fields of activity 
have played a leading part. The force of Puritanism, further- 
more, has been accentuated because it was the first of these 
traditions to be fully articulated, and because it has inspired 
certain traits which have persisted long after the vanishing of 
the original creed. Without soffe understanding of Puritanism, 
it may safely be said, there is no understanding of America. 

Yet important as Puritanism has undoubtedly been in shaping 
the nation, it is more easily described than defined. It figures 
frequently in controversy of the last decade, very seldom twice 
with exactly the same connotation. Particularly of recent years 
has it become a hazardous feat to run down its meaning. In 
the mood of revolt against the ideals of previous generations 
which has swept over our period, Puritanism has become a shining 
target for many sorts of marksmen. Confusion becomes worse 

I 


2 The Puritans — 


confounded if we attempt to correlate modern usages with any- 
thing that can be proved pertinent to the original Puritans them- 
selves. ‘To seek no further, it was the habit of proponents for the 
repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment during the 1920’s to dub 
Prohibitionists ‘Puritans,’ and cartoonists made the nation fa- 
miliar with an image of the Puritan: a gaunt, lank-haired kill- 
joy, wearing a black steeple hat and compounding for sins he 
was inclined to by damning those to which he had no mind. 
Yet any acquaintance with the Puritans of the seventeenth cen- 
tury will reveal at once, not only that they did not wear such 
hats, but also that they attired themselves in all the hues of the 
rainbow, and furthermore that in their daily life they imbibed 
what seem to us prodigious quantities of alcoholic beverages, with 
never the slightest inkling that they were doing anything sinful. 
True, they opposed drinking to excess, and ministers preached 
lengthy sermons condemning intoxication, but at such pious cere- 
monies as the ordination of new ministers the bill for rum, wine, 
and beer consumed by the congregation was often staggering. 
Increase Mather himself—who in popular imagination is apt to 
figure along with his son Cotton as the arch-embodiment of the 
Puritan—said in one of his sermons: 


Drink is in it self a good creature of God, and to be received 
with thankfulness, but the abuse of drink is from Satan; the wine 
is from God, but the Drunkard is from the Devil.! 


Or again, the Puritan has acquired the reputation of having 
been blind to all aesthetic enjoyment and starved of beauty; 
yet the architecture of the Puritan age grows in the esteem of 
critics and the household objects of Puritan manufacture, pewter 
and furniture, achieve prohibitive prices by their appeal to dis- 
criminating collectors. Examples of such discrepancies between 
the modern usage of the word and the historical fact could be 
multiplied indefinitely.? It is not the purpose of this volume to 
engage in controversy, nor does it intend particularly to defend 
the Puritan against the bewildering variety of critics who on 
every side today find him an object of scorn or pity. In his life 
he neither asked nor gave mercy to his foes; he demanded only 
that conflicts be joined on real and explicit issues. By examining 


1 Wo to Drunkards (Cambridge, 1673), p. 4. 
2 Cf. Kenneth B. Murdock, “The Puritan Tradition in American Literature,” 
The Reinterpretation of American Literature (New York, 1928), chap. V. 


Introduction , 3 


his own words it may become possible to establish, for better or 
for worse, the meaning of Puritanism as the Puritan himself be- 
lieved and practiced it. 

Just as soon as we endeavor to free ourselves from prevailing 
conceptions or misconceptions, and to ascertain the historical facts 
about seventeenth-century New Englanders, we become aware 
that we face still another difficulty: not only must we extricate 
ourselves from interpretations that have been read into Puri- 
tanism by the twentieth century, but still more from those that 
have been attached to it by the eighteenth and nineteenth. The 
Puritan philosophy, brought to New England highly elaborated 
and codified, remained a fairly rigid orthodoxy during the seven- 
teenth century. In the next age, however, it proved to be any- 
thing but static; by the middle of the eighteenth century there 
had proceeded from it two distinct schools of thought, almost 
unalterably opposed to each other. Certain elements were carried 
into the creeds and practices of the evangelical religious revivals, 
but others were perpetuated by the rationalists and the fore- 
runners of Unitarianism. Consequently our conception of Puri- 
tanism is all too apt to be colored by subsequent happenings; 
we read ideas into the seventeenth century which belong to 
the eighteenth, and the real nature of Puritanism can hardly 
be discovered at all, because Puritanism itself became two 
distinct and contending things to two sorts of men. The most 
prevalent error arising from this fact has been the identification 
of Puritanism with evangelicalism in many accounts, though in 
histories written by Unitarian scholars the original doctrine has 
been almost as much distorted in the opposite direction. 
| Among the evangelicals the original doctrines were trans- 
formed or twisted into the new versions of Protestantism that 
spawned in the Great Awakening of the 1740’s, in the succeed- 
ing revivals along the frontier and through the back country, in 
the centrifugal speculations of enraptured prophets and rabid 
sects in the nineteenth century. All these movements retained 
something of the theology or revived something of the intensity 
of spirit, but at the same time they threw aside so much of authen- 
tic Puritanism that there can be no doubt the founding fathers 
would vigorously have repudiated such progeny. They would 
shave had no use, for instance, for the camp meeting and the 
revivalist orgy; ‘“‘hitting the sawdust trail’? would have been an 
action exceedingly distasteful to the most ardent among them. 


4 , --~ The Puritans 


/ 


What we know as “fundamentalism” would have been com- 
pletely antipathetic to them, for they never for one moment 
dreamed that the truth of scripture was to be maintained in 
spite of or against the evidences of reason, science, and learning. 
The sects that have arisen out of Puritanism have most strikingly 
betrayed their rebellion against the true spirit of their source by 
their attack upon the ideal of a learned ministry; Puritans con- 
sidered religion a very complex, subtle, and highly intellectual- 
ized affair, and they trained their experts in theology with all 
the care we would lavish upon preparing men to be engineers 
or chemists. For the same reasons, Puritans would object strenu- 
ously to almost all recent attempts to “humanize”’ religion, to 
smooth over hard doctrines, to introduce sweetness and light at 
the cost of hardheaded realism and invincible logic. From their 
point of view, to bring Christ down to earth in such a fashion 
as is implied in statements we sometimes encounter—that He 
was the “first humanitarian” or that He would certainly endorse 
- this or that political party—would seem to them frightful blas- 
phemy. Puritanism was not only a religious creed, it was a ~ 
philosophy and a metaphysic; it was an organization of man’s 
whole life, emotional and intellectual, to a degree which has not 
been sustained by any denomination stemming from it. Yet be- 
cause such creeds have sprung from Puritanism, the Puritans are 
frequently praised or blamed for qualities which never belonged 
to them or for ideas which originated only among their successors 
and which they themselves would have disowned. 

On the other hand, if the line of development from Puritanism 
tends in one direction to frontier revivalism and evangelicalism, 
another line leads as directly to a more philosophical, critical, 
and even skeptical point of view. Unitarianism is as much the 
child of Puritanism as Methodism. And if the one accretion has 
colored or distorted our conception of the original doctrine, the 
other has done so no less. Descendants of the Puritans who re- 
volted against what they considered the tyranny and cruelty of 
Puritan theology, who substituted taste and reason for dogma 
and authority and found the emotional fervor of the evangelicals 
so much sound and fury, have been prone to idealize their an- 
cestors into their own image. A few decades ago it had become 
very much the mode to praise the Puritans for virtues which 
they did not possess and which they would not have considered 
virtues at all. In the pages of liberal historians, and above all 


Introduction 5 


in the speeches of Fourth of July orators, the Puritans have been 
hymned as the pioneers of religious liberty, though nothing was 
ever farther from their designs; they have been hailed as the 
forerunners of democracy, though if they were, it was quite be- 
side their intention; they have been invoked in justification for 
an economic philosophy of free competition and _ laissez-faire, 
though they themselves believed in government regulation of 
business, the fixing of just prices, and the curtailing of individual 
profits in the interests of the welfare of the whole.! 

The moral of these reflections may very well be that it is dan- 
gerous to read history backwards, to interpret something that 
was by what it ultimately became, particularly when it became 
several things. In order that the texts presented in this volume 
may be read for their proper meaning, it is necessary that the 
student divest himself as far as possible of those preconceptions 
which have been established only in later times, and approach 
the Puritans in terms of their own background. Only thus can 
we hope to understand what Puritanism was, or what it be- 
came and why. The Puritan had his defects, certainly, and he 
had his virtues, but the defects of one century may become the 
virtues of another, and what is considered commendable at one 
time may be viewed with horror by later generations. It is not 
easy to restrain one’s own prejudices and to exercise the sort of 
historical imagination that is required for the understanding of a 
portion of the past according to its own intentions before we allow 
ourselves to judge it by our own standards. The Puritans were 
not a bashful race, they could speak out and did; in their own 
words they have painted their own portraits, their majestic 
strength and their dignity, their humanity and solidity, more 
accurately than any admirer has been able to do; and also they 
have betrayed the motes and beams in their own eyes more 
clearly than any enemy has been able to point them out. 


2. The Spirit of the Age 


Puritanism began as an agitation within the Church of Eng- 
land in the latter half of the sixteenth century. It was a move- 
ment for reform of that institution, and at the time no more 


1 See below p. 384. In 1639, John Cotton condemned as a “‘false principle’ the 
assertion “that a man might sell as dear as he can, and buy as cheap as he can,” 
and Mr. Robert Keayne was fined £200 by the General Court and admonished 
by the church of Boston for making a profit of sixpence or more in the shilling 
(Winthrop’s Journal, ed. J. K. Hosmer [New York, 1908], I, 315-318). 


6 The Puritans 


constituted a distinct sect or denomination than the advocates 
of an amendment to the Constitution of the United States con- 
stitute a separate nation. In the 1530’s the Church of England 
broke with the Pope of Rome. By the beginning of Elizabeth’s 
reign it had proceeded a certain distance in this revolt, had be- 
come Protestant, had disestablished the monasteries and corrected 
many abuses. Puritanism was the belief that the reform should be 
continued, that more abuses remained to be corrected, that prac- 
tices still cuca from the days of Popery which should be re- 
nounced, that the Church of England should be restored to the 
“purity” of the first-century Church as established by Christ 
Himself. In the 1560’s, when the advocates of purification first ac- 
quired the name of Puritans, no one, not even the most radical, 
knew exactly how far the process was to go or just what the 
ultimate goal would be; down to the days of Cromwell there 
was never any agreement on this point, and in the end this 
failure of unanimity proved the undoing of English Puritanism. 
Many Puritans desired only that certain ceremonies be abolished 
or changed. Others wanted ministers to preach more sermons, 
make up their own prayers on the inspiration of the moment 
rather than read set forms out of a book. Others went further 
and proposed a revision of the whole form of ecclesiastical govern- 
ment. But whatever the shade or complexion of their Puritanism, 
Puritans were those who wanted to continue a movement which 
was already under way. Their opponents, whom we shall speak 
of as the Anglicans—though only for the sake of convenience, 
because there was at that time not the remotest thought on either 
side of an ultimate separation into distinct churches, and Puritans 
insisted they were as stoutly loyal to the established institution 
as any men in England—the Anglicans were those who felt that 
with the enthronement of Elizabeth and with the “Elizabethan 
Settlement” of the Church, things had gone far enough. They 
wanted to call a halt, just where they were, and stabilize at that 
point. 

Thus the issue between the two views, though large enough, 
still involved only a limited number of questions. On everything 
except matters upon which the Puritans wanted further refor- 
mation, there was essential agreement..The Puritans who settled 
New England were among the more radical—though by no means 
the most radical that the movement produced—and..even..be- 
fore their migration in 1630 had gone to the lengths of formu- 


I ntroduction 7 


lating a concrete platform of church organization which they 
wished to see instituted in. England in place of the episcopal 
system. Joining battle on this front gave a sufficiently extended 
line and provided a vast number of salients to fight over; the 
gulf between the belief of these Puritans and the majority in the 
Church of England grew so wide that at last there was no bridging 
it at all. But notwithstanding the depth of this divergence, the » 
fact still remains that only certain specific questions were raised. 
If we take a comprehensive survey of the whole body of Puritan 
thought and belief as it existed in 1630 or 1640, if we make 
an exhaustive enumeration of ideas held by New England 
Puritans, we shall find that the vast majority of them were 
erecisely: those of their opponents. In other words, Puritanism 
was a movement toward | certain ends within the culture and 
state | of. England_ in the late sixteenth and. early. seventeenth. 
centuries; it centered about a number of concrete problems and_ 
advocated a particular program. Outside of that, it was part 
and parcel of the times, and its culture was simply the culture of 
England at that moment. It is necessary to belabor the point, 

because most accounts of Puritanism, emphasizing the contro- 
versial tenets, attribute cverything that Puritans said or did to 
the fact that they were Puritans; their attitudes toward all sorts 
of things are pounced upon and exhibited as peculiarities of their 
sect, when as a matter of fact they were normal attitudes for the 
time. Of course, the Puritans acquired their special quality and 
their essential individuality from their stand on the points ac- 
tually at issue, and our final conception of Puritanism must give 
these concerns all due importance. Yet if first of all we wish to 
take Puritan culture as a whole, we shall find, let us say, that_ 
morality, manners and Customs, notions aud prejudices;-was that 
of all Englishmen. The other. ten per cent, the relatively small 
number of ideas upon which there was aisnate: made all the 
difference between the Puritan and his fellow-Englishmen, made 
for him so much difference that he pulled up stakes in England, 
which he loved, and migrated to a wilderness rather than submit 
them to apparent defeat. Nevertheless, when we come to trace 
developments and influences on subsequent American history and 
thought, we shall find that the starting point of many ideas and 
practices is as apt to be found among the ninety per cent as 
among the ten. The task of defining Puritanism and giving an 


v 
a 


8 The Puritans 


account of its culture resolves itself, therefore, into isolating 
first of all the larger features which were not particularly or 
necessarily Puritan at all, the elements in the life and society 
which were products of the time and place, of the background of 
English life and society rather than of the individual belief or 
peculiar creed of Puritanism. 

Many of the major interests and preoccupations of the New 
England Puritans belong to this list. They: were just as patriotic 
as Englishmen who remained at home. They hated Spain like 
poison, and France only a little less. In their eyes, as in those of 
Anglicans, the most important issue in the Western world was the 
struggle between Catholicism and Protestantism. They were not 
unique or extreme in thinking that religion was the primary and 
all-engrossing business of man, or that all human thought and 
action should tend to the glory of God. John Donne, Dean of St. 
Paul’s, preached in London, “all knowledge that begins not, and 
ends not with his glory, is but a giddy, but a vertiginous circle, 
but an elaborate and exquisite ignorance’’;+ the content, howeli 
not the style, of the passage might just as well come from any 


, Puritan preacher. Both the Anglican and the Puritan were at one’ 


in conceiving of man as sinful, they both beheld him chained and 
enslaved by evil until liberated by the redeeming grace of Christ. 
They both believed that the visible universe was under God’s di- 
rect and continuous guidance, and that though effects seemed to 
be produced by natural causes—what at that time were called 
*“‘secondary causes’’—the actual government of the minutest event, 


/the rise of the sun, the fall of a stone, the beat of the heart, was 


~ under the direct and immediate supervision of God. This concep- 


tion, a fundamental one in the Puritan view of the world, was no 
more limited to them than their habits of eating and drinking. 
John Donne said: 


The very calamities are from him; the deliverance from those 
calamities much more. All comes from God’s hand; and from his 
hand, by way of hand-writing, by way of letter, and instruction 
to us. And therefore to ascribe things wholly to nature, to for- 
tune, to power, to second causes, this is to mistake the hand, not to 
know God’s hand; but to acknowledge it to be God’s hand, and not 
to read it, to say that it is God’s doing, and not to consider, what 
God intends in it, is as much a slighting of God, as the other. ? 


1 Donne, Works, ed. Henry Alford (London, 1839), I, 278. 
2 Ibid., p. 120. 


Introduction 9 


A New England parson later in the century would preach in 
exactly the same vein: 


His hand has made and framed the whole Fabrick of Heaven 
& Earth. He hath hung out the Globe of this World; hung the 
Earth upon nothing; drawn over the Canopy of the Heavens; 
laid the foundation of the earth in its place; Created that Foun- 
tain and Center of Light, Heat, & Influence in this lower World, 
the Sun... . The whole Administration of Providence in the Up- 
holding and Government of all created Beings, in a way of highest 
Wisdom and exact Order, it is all His work. ... Those notable 
changes in the World in the promoting or suppressing, exalting or 
bringing down of Kingdoms, Nations, Provinces or Persons, they 
are all wrought by Him... . The Yearly seasons, also Seed-time 
and Harvest, Summer and Winter, binding up and covering the 
earth with Frost, Ice and Snow, and the releasing and renewing 
of the face of the Earth again, it’s His work. 


The great Anglican preacher said, “Even in natural things all 
the reason of all that is done is the power and the will of him who 
infused that virtue into that creature,’ ? and the president of Har- 
vard College preached a sermon on God’s governing through the 
natural causes that might well have taken Donne’s utterance for 
its text (cf. PP. 350-367). 

In its major aspects the religious creed of Puritanism was neither 
peculiar to the Puritans nor different from that of the Anglicans. 
Both were essentially Protestant; both asserted that men were 
saved by their faith, not by their Hee The two sides could agree 
on the general statement that Christians are bound to believe 
nothing but what the Gospel teaches, that all traditions of men 
“contrary to the Word of God” are to be renounced and ab- 
horred. They both believed that the marks of a true church were 
profession of the creed, use of Christ’s sacraments, preaching of 
the word—Anglican sermons being as. long and often as dull 
as the Puritan—and the union of men in profession and practice 
under regularly constituted pastors. The Puritans always said that 
they could subscribe the doctrinal articles of the Church of Eng- 
land; even at the height of the controversy, even after they had 
left England rather than put up with what they considered its 
abominations, they always took care to insist that the Church of 
England was a “true” church, not Anti-Christ as was the Church 


1 William Adams, God’s Eye on the Contrite (Boston, 1685), pp. 6—7. 
2 Donne, Works, I, 33. 


10 The Puritans 


of Rome, that it contained many saints, and that men might find 
salvation within it. Throughout the seventeenth century they read 
Anglican authors, quoted them in their sermons, and even re- 
printed some of them in Boston. ' 

The vast substratum of agreement which actually underlay the 
disagreement between Puritans and Anglicans is explained by 
the fact that they were both the heirs of the Middle Ages. They 
still believed that all knowledge was one, that life was unified, 
that science, economics, political theory, aesthetic standards, rhet- 
oric and art, all were organized in a hierarchical scale of values 
that tended upward to the end-all and be-all of creation, the 
glory of God. They both insisted that all human activity be regu- 
lated by that purpose. Consequently, even while fighting bitterly 
against each other, the Puritans and Anglicans stood shoulder to 
/ shoulder against what they called ‘enthusiasm.’ The leaders of 
the Puritan movement were trained at the universities, they were 
men of learning and scholars; no less than the Anglicans did they 
demand that_religion be interpreted by study and logical exposi- 
tion; they were both resolute against all pretences to immediate 
pevelation: against all ignorant men who claimed to receive per- 
sonal instructions from God. They agreed on the essential Chris- 
tian contention that though God may govern the world, He is 
not the world itself, and that though He instills His grace into 
men, He does not deify them or unite them to Himself in one 
personality. He converses with men only through His revealed 
word, the Bible. His will is to be studied in the operation of His 
providence as exhibited in the workings of the natural world, 
but He delivers no new commands or special revelations to the 
inward consciousness of men. The larger unanimity of the Puritans 
and the Anglicans reveals itself whenever either of them was 
called upon to confront enthusiasm. The selections given in this 
volume include Governor John Winthrop’s account of the so- 
called Antinomian affair, the crisis produced in the little col- 
ony by the teachings of Mistress Anne Hutchinson in 1636 and 
1637 (pp. 129-136). Beneath the theological jargon in which the 
opinions of this lady appear we can see the substance of her 
contention, which was that she was in direct communication with 
the Godhead, and that she therefore was prepared to follow the 
promptings of the voice within against all the precepts of the 
Bible, the churches, reason, or the government of Massachusetts 
Bay. Winthrop relates how the magistrates and the ministers de- 


Introduction +7 


fended the community against this perversion of the doctrine of 
regeneration, but the tenor of his condemnation would have been 
duplicated practically word for word had Anne Hutchinson 
broached her theories in an Anglican community. The Anglicans 
fell in completely with the Puritans when both of them were 
confronted in the 1650’s by the Quakers. All New England 
leaders saw in the Quaker doctrine of an inner light, accessible 
to all men and giving a perfect communication from God to 
their inmost spirits, just another form of Anne Hutchinson’s blas- 
phemy. John Norton declared that the “light of nature’’ itself 
taught us that “‘madmen acting according to their frantick pas- » 
sions are to be restrained with chaines, when they can not be 
restrained otherwise.’? 1 About the same time George Hickes, 
Dean of Worcester, was advocating that Quakers be treated like- 
wise in England, and he ended a sermon upon them by calling 
them “Imposters, or enthusiasts, and Blasphemers of the Holy 
Ghoast.”? ? Enthusiasts, whether Antinomian or Quaker, were | 
proposing doctrines that threatened the unity of life by subduing / 
the reason and the intellect to the passions and the emotions. ° 
Whatever their differences, Puritans and Anglicans were strug- 
gling to maintain a complete harmony of reason and faith, science - 
and religion, earthly dominion and the government of God. 
When we immerse ourselves in the actual struggle, the difference 
between the Puritan and the Anglican may seem to us immense; 
but when we take the vantage point of subsequent history, and 
| survey religious thought as a whole over the last three centuries, 
the two come very close together_on essentials. Against all forms 
of chaotic emotionalism, against all over-simplifications of the- 
_ ology, learning, philosophy, and science, against all materialism, 
' positivism or mechanism, both were endeavoring to uphold a sym- 
metrical union of heart and head without impairment of either. 

By the beginning or middle of the next century their successors, 

both in England and America, found themselves no longer capable 

of sustaining this unity, and it has yet to be re-achieved today, 

if achieved again it ever can be. The greatness of the Puritans is 

not so much that they conquered a wilderness, or that they carried 

a religion into it, but that they carried a religion which, narrow 

and starved though it may have been in some respects, deficient 


1 The Heart of N-England Rent at the Blasphemies of the Present Generation (Cambridge, 


1659), P- 39- 
2 Paul Elmer More and Frank Leslie Cross, Anglicanism (1935), pp. 68, 84. 


12 The Puritans 


in sensuous richness or brilliant color, was nevertheless indis- 
~ solubly bound up with an ideal of culture and learning. In con- 
trast to all other pioneers, they made no concessions to the forest, 
but in the midst of frontier conditions, in the very throes of 
clearing the land and erecting shelters, they maintained schools 
and a college, a standard of scholarship and of competent writing, 
a class of men devoted entirely to the life of the mind and of 
the soul. 

Because the conflict between the Puritans and the Churchmen 
was as much an intellectual and scholarly issue as it was emotional, 
it was in great part a debate among pundits. This is not to say 
that passions were not involved; certainly men took sides because 
of prejudice, interest, irrational conviction, or for any of the mo- 
tives that may incite the human race to conflict. The disagree- 
ment finally was carried from the field of learned controversy to 
in England, or even in New England, became rabid partisans and 
yet never acquired the erudition necessary to understand the in- 
tricate and subtle arguments of their leaders. A great number, 
perhaps even a majority, in both camps were probably not in- 
telligent or learned enough to see clearly the reasons for the 
cause they supported. ‘Thomas Hooker, the clerical leader of the 
settlement of Connecticut—and therefore the dominant figure in 
that community—said frankly, “I can speak it by experience, that 
the meaner ordinary sort of people, it is incredible and uncon- 
ceiveable, what Ignorance is among them.” ! This being the case, 
we who are today being made all too familiar with the horrors 
of the art of “popularization,” can only marvel at how little al- 
lowance the divines made for the ignorance or the simplicity of 
the average man in the addresses and sermons they delivered to 
him. It is true, several Anglicans began to feel, after the dispute 
became acrimonious, that the wind of doctrine ought perhaps to 
be tempered to the uneducated lamb; the authorities ordered 
parish priests not to discuss the more difficult points of specula- 


1 The Soules Preparation for Christ (London, 1632), p. 70; the sermons in this volume 
were delivered in England, so that Hooker was here speaking of the level of knowledge 
among the English people, which was of course much lower than among the select 
group that settled New England; New England Puritans were undoubtedly much 
more skilled in following the logic of theology, and they received a thorough and 
lifelong course of instruction in Sunday sermons and Thursday lectures. Even so, as 
Winthrop points out in describing the Antinomian agitation, the debate on the theology 
soon got over the heads of the many (p. 131). 


Introduction 13 


tion before all the people.t The Puritans would not show their 
people any such mercy. They endeavored to assist the feebler 
understandings of their congregations by using the simplest and 
most comprehensible style, by employing a schematic organiza- 
tion for their sermons, with heads and subheads so clearly marked 
that earnest listeners could take notes and study the points dur- 
ing the week, and by eschewing Latin quotations or glittering 
phrases that might distract attention from content to form. But 
these were the only sort of crutches that Puritan ministers would 
allow to the rank and file for helping them over the hard parts 
of divinity. Of course many texts from scripture permitted sermons 
that were relatively simple and ethical, but others raised per- 
plexing enigmas, discussion of which the Medieval Church had 
restricted to the schools; Puritans took each kind as it came and 
did not flinch from struggling in the pulpit with the difficult 
ones any more than from expounding the more obvious. Thomas 
Hooker told his people that they were responsible for acquir- 
ing a certain amount of knowledge if they expected to be saved: 


Its with an ignorant sinner in the midst of all means as with a 
sick man remaining in an Apothecaries shop, ful of choycest 
Medicines in the darkest night: though there be the choycest of 
all receipts at hand, and he may take what he needs, yet because 
he cannot see what he takes, and how to use them, he may kill 
himself or encrease his distempers, but never cure any disease. ? 


The wonder is that by and large the populace did yield their 
judgments to those who were supposed to know, respected learn- 
ing and supported it, sat patiently during two- and three-hour 
sermons while ministers expounded the knottiest and most recon- 


1 The Anglican disposition to refrain from discussing the unfathomable mysteries 
of the creed before the laity was reinforced by a strategic consideration; the people 
enjoyed listening to highly technical discussions of subtle points and flocked to Puritan 
sermons for that reason. The English officials believed that Puritan sermons simply 
inflamed popular passions ‘without elevating the public intelligence, and therefore 
endeavored to restrict the discussion of unanswerable questions. As the controversy 
widened the leading Anglicans turned against the theology of rigorous predestination 
and reprobation—which had been generally accepted by the first bishops of Elizabeth’s 
reign—and identified Puritan theology with the Puritan program in church and state; 
the effect on the Puritans was to make them all the more determined that no subject, 
no matter how involved, should be kept out of the pulpits, and that the people should 
be lifted by main force to the highest possible pitch of understanding. Particularly 
were they resolved that predestination should be thoroughly thrashed out for the 
benefit of the populace. 

2 The Application of Redemption (London, 1659), pp. 89-90; these sermons were de- 
livered in Connecticut. 


14 The Puritans 


dite of metaphysical texts. The testimony of visitors, travelers, 
and memoirs agrees that during the Puritan age in New England 
the common man, the farmer and merchant, was amazingly 
versed in systematic divinity. A gathering of yeomen and “‘hired 
help” around the kitchen fire of an evening produced long and 
unbelievably technical discussions of predestination, infant dam- 
nation, and the distinctions between faith and works. In the first 
half of the seventeenth century the people had not yet questioned 
the conception of religion as a difficult art in which the authority 
of the skilled dialectician should prevail over the inclinations of | 
the merely devout. This ideal of subjection to qualified leadership 
was social as well as intellectual. Very few Englishmen had yet 
broached the notion that a lackey was as good as a lord, or that 
any Tom, Dick, or Harry, simply because he was a opot maa 
man, Benda themed the Sermon on the Mount as well as 
Master of Arts from Oxford, Cambridge, or Harvard. Prieden 
Morison has shown that the life of the college in New England 
was saved by the sacrifice of the yeomen farmers, who contributed 
their pecks of wheat, wrung from a stony soil, taken from their 
none too opulent stores, to support teaching fellows and to assist 
poor scholars at Harvard College, in order that they and their 
children might still sit under a literate ministry “when our present 
Ministers shall lie in the Dust.” ? 

When we say that the majority of the people in the early 
seventeenth century still acceded to the dictation of the learned 
in religion and the superior in society, we must also remark that 
the Puritan leaders were in grave danger of arousing a revolt 
against themselves by their very own doctrines. Puritans were 
attacking the sacerdotal and institutional bias which had survived 
in the Church of England; they were maintaining a theology 
that brought every man to a direct experience of the spirit and 
rémoved intermediaries between himself and the deity. Yet the 
authority of the infallible church and the power of the bishops 
had for centuries served to keep the people docile. Consequently 
when the Puritan leaders endeavored to remove the bishops 
and to deny that the Church should stand between God and man, 
they ran the hazard of starting something among the people that 
might get out of hand. Just as the Puritan doctrine that men 
were saved by the infusion. of God’s grace could lead to the An- 


1 Morison, The Founding of Harvard College (1935), p. 318; Harvard College in the 
Seventeenth Century, p. 28. 


Introduction 7 15 


tinomianism of Mrs. Hutchinson, and often did warrant the simple 
in concluding that if they had God’s grace in them they needed 
to pay no heed to what a minister told them, so the Puritan 
contention that regenerate men were illuminated with divine 
truth might lead to the belief that true religion did not need the 
assistance of learning, books, arguments, logical demonstrations, 
or classical languages. There was always a possibility that Puri- 
tanism would raise up a fanatical anti-intellectualism, and against 
such a threat the Puritan ministers constantly braced themselves. 
It was no accident that the followers of Mrs. Hutchinson, who 
believed that men could receive all the necessary instructions 
from within, also attacked learning and education, and came near 
to wrecking not only the colony but the college as well.t Edward 
Johnson, stout militia captain of the town of Woburn, and no 
intellectual, set forth the anguish of soul through which he 
passed while the citizens of Boston were under the spell of 
“‘Jezebel’’ (p. 158); he was particularly shocked to hear one of 
the heretics say flatly, ““I had rather hear such a one that speakes 
from the meere motion of the spirit, without any study at all, 
then any of your learned Scollers, although they may be fuller 
of Scripture.” * Puritanism was forever giving rise to such rebel- 
lions against its own ideal of learned religion; the experience of 
Massachusetts with the Hutchinsonians in the 1630’s was only a 
premonition of what England was to encounter in the 1650's, 
when the Civil Wars generated not one form of Antinomianism 
but a thousand. Anabaptists and Fifth Monarchy men then began 
to vaunt that an ignorant man inspired with the spirit made a 
better preacher than one who had attended the “cob-webbed 
Universities,’ and in the disturbed state of society found an op- 
portunity to spread their dangerous opinions among the people. 
The true Puritans were forced to resort to repressive measures to 
save Puritanism itself. Oliver Cromwell was the most liberal of 
seventeenth-century Puritan leaders; it is his eternal glory that 
he did not confront with the sword all the zealots who ran riot 
over the land, but strove to work out a scheme of toleration for 
as many of them as would behave with civil decency. But even 
Cromwell had to draw the line somewhere, and he drew it when 
the upsurge of popular religious frenzies turned against the uni- 
versities and the learned ministry. His assumption of the dic- 


ie Morison, The Founding of Harvard College, chap. XIII. 
2 The Wonder-working Providence, ed. J. F. Jameson (New York, 1910), p. 128. 


16 The Puritans 


tatorship in 1653, unlike later seizures of arbitrary power, was 
prompted in great part by his determination to protect a sober 
and instructed clergy and the universities from an assault by 
the lunatic fringe in his own party.1 Cromwell’s New England 
brethren thoroughly sympathized with his efforts, but they thought 
he had invited the trouble by allowing ignorant men to preach 
at all; they looked upon his policy of toleration as the sole stain 
upon the otherwise flawless record of the pre-eminent warrior 
saint of the age. They were determined to run no such risks in 
their communities. They would have the rabble entirely submis- 
sive to the intellectual aristocracy, even though many or all of 
the mass were supposedly saints of God. 

Both Cromwell and the New England leaders were face to face 
with a problem as old as the history of the Christian Church. 
Throughout the Middle Ages there had been such stirrings among 
the people as those to which Mrs. Hutchinson or the Fifth Mon- 
archy Men gave voice. The great scholastic synthesis always re- 
mained incomprehensible to the vulgar, who demanded to be fed 
again and again with the sort of religious sustenance they craved. 
The Reformation drew upon these suppressed desires. Common 
men turned Protestant primarily because Protestantism offered 
them a religion which more effectively satisfied their spiritual 
hunger. Yet in Europe theologians and metaphysicians retained 
the leadership and kept Protestantism from becoming merely an 
emotional outburst. They supplied it with a theology which, 
though not so sophisticated as scholastic dogma, was still equipped 
with a logic and organon of rational demonstration. Though 
Protestantism can be viewed as a “‘liberation” of the common 
man, it was far from being a complete emancipation of the in- 
dividual. It freed him from many intellectual restraints that had 
been imposed by the Church, but it did not give him full liberty 
to think anything he pleased; socially it freed him from many 
exactions, but it did not permit him to abandon his traditional 
subjection to his social and ecclesiastical superiors. The original 
settlers of New England carried this Protestantism intact from 
Europe to America. Except for the small band that was driven 
into exile with Anne Hutchinson, and one or two other groups 
of visionaries who also were hustled across the borders into Rhode 
_ Island, the rank and file did follow their leaders, meekly and 
reverently. Captain Johnson probably represents the average lay- 


1 David Masson, The Life of John Milton (London, 1877), IV, 566 ff. 


Introduction 17 


man’s loyalty to the clergy. The New England “theocracy”? was 
simply a Protestant version of the European social ideal, and ex- 
cept for its Protestantism was thoroughly medieval in character. 

It was only as the seventeenth century came to a close that 
the imported structure began to show the strain. In Europe social 
tradition had conspired with the ministers to check enthusiasts 
in religion and “‘levellers’’ in society; in England the authorities, 
whether Anglican or Puritan, royal or Cromwellian, were able 
to suppress the assault upon the scholarly and aristocratic ideal. 
In America the character of the people underwent a change; 
they moved further into the frontier, they became more absorbed 
in business and profits than in religion and salvation, their 
memories of English social stratification grew dim. A preacher 
before the General Court in 1705 bewailed the effects of the frontier 
in terms that have been echoed by “‘Easterners’’ for two hundred 
years and more; men were no longer living together, he said, in 
compact communities, under the tutelage of educated clergy- 
men and under the discipline of an ordered society, but were 
taking themselves into remote corners ‘‘for worldly conveniences.” 
“By that means [they] have seemed to bid defiance, not only to 
Religion, but to Civility it self: and such places thereby have be- 
come Nurseries of Ignorance, Prophaneness and Atheism.” ? In 
America the frontier conspired with the popular disposition to 
lessen the prestige of the cultured classes and to enhance the 
social power of those who wanted their religion in a more simple, 
downright and “‘democratic” form, who cared nothing for the 
refinements and subtleties of historic theology. Not until the 
decade of the Great Awakening did the popular tendency re- 
ceive distinct articulation through leaders who openly renounced 
the older conception, but for half a century or more before 1740 
its obstinate persistence can be traced in the condemnations of 
the ministers. | 

The Puritan leaders could withstand this rising tide of de- 
mocracy only by such support as the government would give 
them—which became increasingly less after the new charter of 
1692 took away from the saints all power to select their own 
governors and divorced the state and church—or else by the 


1 Joseph Easterbrooks, Abraham the Passenger (Boston, 1705), p. 3; cf. Increase Mather 
as early as 1677: “People are ready to run wild into the woods again and to be as 
Heathenish as ever, if you donot prevent it”’ (A Discourse Concerning the Danger of Apostacy 
[Boston, 1679], 2d ed., 1685, p. 104). 


18 The Puritans 


sheer force of their personalities. As early as the 1660’s and 70’s 
we can see them beginning to shift their attentions from mere 
exposition of the creed to greater and greater insistence upon 
committing power only to men of wisdom and knowledge. William 
Hubbard in an election sermon of 1676 told the citizens that piety 
alone in a ruler was not enough; magistrates should be such “ 
by the benefit of natural parts Experience, Education, and study, 
have advantage above others to be acquainted with the affairs 
of the world abroad, as well as with the Laws and Customes of 
their own people at home.” ! By the beginning of the eighteenth 
century the task of buttressing the classified society, maintaining 
the rule of the well-trained and the culturally superior both in 
church and society seems to have become the predominant con- 
cern of the clergy. Sermon after sermon reveals that in their 
eyes the cause of learning and the cause of a hierarchical, dif- 
ferentiated social order were one and the same. For example, 
Ebenezer Pemberton, who was a tutor at Harvard College and 
then colleague minister with Samuel Willard at the Old South 
Church, delivered a funeral sermon upon the death of the Honour- 
able John Walley, member of the council and judge, in 1711. 
Judge Walley, said Pemberton, rendered his country great serv- 
ice; there are various ways in which the country can be served. 
One of them is by the promotion of “‘good literature”’: 


This is necessary for the true prosperity and happiness of a 
people. Greece and Rome are more renowned for the flourishing 
state of learning in them, than for their arms. This has for ever 
been in highest esteem among civilized nations. . . . The more of 
good literature civil rulers are furnished with, the more capable 
they are to discharge their trust to the honour and safety of their 
people. And learning is no less necessary, as an ordinary medium 
to secure the glory of Christ’s visible kingdom. Without a good 
measure of this the truth can’t be explained, asserted and demon- 
strated; nor errors detected and the heretick baffled ... When 
ignorance and barbarity invade a generation, their glory is laid 
in the dust; and the ruin of all that is great and good among them 
will soon follow.? 


A second way in which the welfare of the nation is served is by 
each and every person’s keeping to his proper station: 


1 The Happiness of a People (Boston, 1676), p. 28. 
2 Sermons and Discourses on Several Occasions (London, 1727), pp. 212-213. 


I ntroduction 19 


This intends that we keep within the line and place, that provi- 
dence has set us . . . We must not without God’s call quit our post, 
thrust our selves into anothers province, with a conceit that there we 
may best serve, and promote the good of the world. But herein 
observe the will of God by keeping to the service that belongs to 
our station, which providence has made our peculiar business. 
Thus every man is to serve his generation by moving in his own 
orb; and discharging those offices that belong to that order that 
the government of heaven has assigned him to.! 


Leadership by the learned and dutiful subordination of the un- 
learned—as long as the original religious creed retained its hold 
upon the people these exhortations were heeded; in the eighteenth 
century, as it ceased to arouse their loyalties, they went seeking 
after gods that were utterly strange to Puritanism. ‘They demanded 
fervent rather than learned ministers and asserted the equality of 
all men. 

Thus Puritanism appears, from the social and economic point 
of view, to have been a philosophy of social stratification, placing 
the eae in the hands of the properly qualified and de- 
manding implicit obedience from the uneducated; from the re- 
ligious point of view it was the dogged assertion a the unity of 
intellect and spirit in the face of a rising tide of democratic senti-' 
ment suspicious of the intellect and intoxicated with the spirit. 
It was autocratic, hierarchical, and authoritarian. It held that 
in the intellectual realm holy writ was to be expounded by right 
reason, that in the social realm the expounders of holy writ were 
to be the mentors of farmers and merchants. Yet in so far as 
Puritanism involved such ideals it was simply adapting to its own 
purposes the ideals of the age. Catholics in Spain and in Spanish 
_ America pursued the same objectives, and the Puritans were no 
more rigorous in their application of an autocratic standard than 
King Charles himself endeavored to be—and would have been 
had he not been balked in the attempt. 


3. Puritéh Humanism 


There is another body of assumptions, besides those under- 
lying the Puritan philosophy of religion and of religious learning, 
which Puritans shared in common with Anglicans and even with 
Catholics. They were the heirs not only of medieval Christianity 
and of the Reformation, but also of the Renaissance—they were 


1 [bid., pp. 220-221. 


20 The Puritans 


humanists. They were students of the recently revived and re- 
discovered classical literature, and they shared in the reinvigora- 
tion of mind and spirit which that literature inspired in Western 
Europe. Their theology undoubtedly stood in the way of un- 
restricted appreciation, yet in the amount of Greek and Roman 
writing they could enjoy and utilize, they fell very little short of 
the most liberal of Anglican scholars. That a Puritan writer could 
be no less devoted to classical literature than his opponent, in 
spite of his theology, is demonstrated most conspicuously by John 
Milton. The miraculous fusion of Puritanism and Hellenism which 
he achieved is unique only in his grandeur of expression; the same 
combination of religious dogma with the classics, of Protestant 
theology and ancient morality, was the aim of the curriculum 
at Harvard College, and it was sustained, though on a rudi- 
mentary or pedestrian level, in the sermons of Yankee parsons 
throughout the seventeenth century. _ 

The humanist learning had already become a regular part of 
the studies in the English Universities when the men who were 
to be ministers and magistrates in New England matriculated 
there. Those institutions were no longer training students solely 
for the ministry; they were also training men to be scholars in 
the classics, or even to be simply “gentlemen.” ! The same trinity 
of intentions was continued at Harvard. Tutor William Brattle 
declared in a college oration in 1689, “‘Liberali liberaliter in- 
stituendi’’—that is, ‘““Gentlemen must be educated like gentle- 
men.” ? Just how extensive a role the classics played in Puritan 
education can best be seen by a reading of the chapters on the 
subject in Professor Morison’s history of Harvard College.’ It is 
enough to say here that study of the arts and sciences and of good 
literature was among the purposes of education in New England 
as well as the learning of theology. The General Court itself 
went on record, in the name of all the citizens and presumably 
without dissent from the other inhabitants of Massachusetts, that 
though learning, ‘‘namely, skill in the tongues & liberall artes,” 
might not be absolutely necessary “‘for the beinge of a common 
wealth & churches, yet we conceive that the judgment of the 
godly wise, it is beyond all question, not only laudable, but neces- 
sary for the beinge of the same.” * In a sermon of 1677, Increase 


1 Morison, The Founding of Harvard College, pp. 50 ff. 

2 Morison, Harvard College in the Seventeenth Century, p. 165. 

3 Jbid., chaps. VII-XIV. 

4 Massachusetts Records, ed. N. B. Shurtleff (Boston, 1853-1854), III, 279. 


I ntroduction 21 


Mather told the legislature that they must take care of the schools 
and the college, ‘‘that so there might be able instruments raised 
up for the propagating of Truth in succeeding Generations. And 
some have well & truly observed, that the Interest of Religion 
and good Literature, hath risen and fallen together.” ! Mather’s 
conception of what constitutes “good literature’? might not coin- 
cide with what we mean by the phrase, but it would include a 
knowledge of the poetry, drama, and history of the ancient world, 
and an ability to write sentences which would not appear utterly 
contemptible when compared with those of classical authors. 

Thanks to the labors of Professor Morison, we may now rest 
assured that the Puritans of New England were the disciples of 
Erasmus and Colet. The question with which we are concerned . 
in the present context is what part of the Puritan mentality must 
be put down to their participation in the humanist tradition. 
How much of what Puritans said and did, how much of their 
belief and their judgment, is to be attributed not so much to 
their Puritanism as to their education? Latin and Greek con- 
tributed more to the Puritan mind than a method of pedagogy 
or an exercise in grammar. When these tongues were the founda- 
tion of the training for an A.B., and when there existed no al- 
ternative $.B. by which, as Dear Briggs remarked, the college 
could graduate a man with a sealed certification mae he was 
totally ignorant of them, then it was inevitable that Puritan 
thought would appropriate some ideas from Hesiod or Horace, 
some wisdom from Plato, or even some wit from Plautus. 

From the evidence afforded by Puritan sermons and polemics 
it seems clear that the tendency of the humanist culture was to 
accentuate the element of rationalism, to enlarge the sphere of 
competence of the natural reason even when not inspired with 
God’s special grace. Neither the Puritans nor the most anti- 
Puritanical bishops in the early seventeenth century would have 
entertained for a moment the idea that merely natural training, 
civilized morality, and gentlemanly culture could get a man to 
heaven; both would have admitted that many souls can be and 
are saved without such embellishments. But they both would 
have agreed that, by and large, men who are called by God 
will heed the summons all the better if they know Latin, Greek, 
and Hebrew. John Cotton said that if knowledge is but an empty 
speculation or a mere collection of facts it will bring forth no 


1 A Discourse Concerning the Danger of Apostacy, pp. 100-101, 


22 The Puritans 


‘heat’; but though “‘knowledge is no knowledge without zeal,” 
on the other hand it is equally true that “‘zeale is but a wilde-fire 
without knowledge.” 1 The great heathen moralists, particularly 
the Stoics, above all Seneca and Plutarch,” inculcated a system 
of ethics that was in effect so close to the precepts of Puritanism 
that the divines could never find it in their hearts to envisage 
these noble heathens languishing in the same Hell to which they 
consigned the minions of Anti-Christ and the deluded followers 
of Mistress Hutchinson, any more than Dante could confine Vergil 
to the Inferno. Increase Mather reveals significantly the alacrity 
with which a Puritan theologian made room on his shelves for 
the books of pagan Greece and Rome: 


Some among the Heathen have been notable Moralists, such 
as Cato, Seneca, Aristides, Gc. And although we must not say that 
their Morality saved them, yet it was not altogether unprofitable 
to them, for God did therefore reward them with many outward 
blessings, and they did thereby escape many temporal Judge- 
ments, which otherwise would have befallen them: And they had 
more quietness in their own spirits, then otherwise would have 
been, being freed from those stinging Accusations of Conscience, 
which more profane sinners, that usually have an Hell in their 
Consciences, are daily tormented with. Moreover, their punish- 
ment in another world will not be so great, as of those that have 
been of a vicious Conversation.? 


Hence in the sermons of Puritan ministers, side by side with pas- 
sages of scripture, appear examples of the wisdom of Greece, epi- 
sodes from the lives of Plutarch, tart sayings from Aristophanes, 


1 Christ the Fountaine of Life (London, 1651), p. 145. 

2 For the estimation in which Plutarch in particular was held, see the commenda- 
tions of Cotton Mather (p. 169) and the citations made by John Wise (pp. 260-261). — 
There is no better way of perceiving how the lamb of classical culture could lie down 
with the lion of Puritan theology than by reading Plutarch’s Lives, then available to 
all literate men in the great translation of Sir Thomas North. Compare, for example, 
the Puritan theory of nature with the attitude expressed in Plutarch’s remarks in the 
life of Pericles on the two approaches to natural phenomena of Lampon the diviner 
and Anaxagoras the philosopher; Lampon interprets the discovery of a ram with one 
horn as a portent, while Anaxagoras splits open the skull to demonstrate a natural cause 
for the monstrosity; Plutarch comments that the wise man will say both were right, 
one finding the cause by which it was produced, the other the end for which it was 
designed. There could be no better statement of the Puritan theory of the concurrence 
of God’s determination and the become cause, or no better exposition of the Puritan 
attitude toward “‘divine providences.’’ Seneca was so congenial to the Puritan temper 
that scholars strained to the limit the tradition that he had been in Bde ioiisies So 
with St. Paul and was secretly a Christian. 

3 Wo to Drunkards, p. 15. 


Introduction | 23 


hard realism from Thucydides. Plato serves as an authority for 
the principles of society, subordinated of course to the Word of 
God, but agreeing with it nevertheless; and when a minister, 
painting the splendors of future bliss, wants to make clear to his 
auditors that the sorrows and tribulations of this life will then 
seem sweet in retrospect, he can find no better words to project 
into the Christian heaven than those of the Roman Vergil, ““Haec 
olim meminisse Juvabit.”? ! Some of the clergy carried their ven- 
eration of classical precedents to lengths that seemed dangerous 
to less venturesome Puritans. When Nathaniel Ward was invited 
by the deputies to deliver the election sermon in 1641, he grounded 
“his propositions much upon the old Roman and Grecian govern- 
ments” (cf. p. 205). John Winthrop, the governor, thought this 
a little unnecessary, and protested that Christians ought to stick 
to the Bible and not go hunting for lessons in “those heathen 
commonwealths.”’ ‘The ministers apparently hastened to reassure 
him that such a mode of reasoning was perfectly orthodox; the 
Reverend Thomas Shepard, minister at Cambridge, wrote to 
him, “Your apprehensions agaynst reading & learning heathen 
authors, I perswade myselfe were suddenly suggested,’’ and told 
him that if he would impart his objections to Brother Dunster, 
the president of Harvard College, they would readily be answered.? 

The remarkable fact concerning the mental life of these Puri- 
tans is that more of them did not share Winthrop’s apprehensions. 
Every appeal to classical models, every invocation of wisdom 
which men had achieved without the assistance of grace, was in 
effect a confession that they did not believe man was hopelessly 
corrupt or too abysmally sinful. Every such passage was by im- 
plication an acknowledgment that natural reason had its place 
in the scheme of things, and a respectable place, that natural 
man, employing reason, was not quite a contemptible worm. 
Elnathan Chauncy, when a student at Harvard in the late 1650’s, 
copied into his commonplace book a passage from van Helmont’s 
Ternary of Paradoxes which ran thus: 

Truth and the rational soule are twins. For so uncessant a 
magnetisme or congenerous love doth the soule hold unto the 
truth, that she can Know no reall or permanent satisfaction, in the 
fruition of any other object.3 


1 Jonathan Mitchell, A Discourse of the Glory To which God hath called Believers (Lon- 
don, 1677), pp. 128-129. 

2 Collections of the Massachusetts Historical Society, Ser. 4, VII, 272. 

3 Morison, Harvard College in the Seventeenth Century, p. 130. 


24 The Puritans 


Truly, if the Puritans had been as they are often pictured, merely 
dogmatic Calvinists, holding a brutal and ironclad theory of in- 
nate depravity and original sin, the young student would have 
been playing with fire even to have let his eyes rest upon such a 
passage. But his jotting down this aphorism was nothing startling 
in the life of a Puritan. ‘That man was, however much deformed 
by sin and passion, essentially a rational and responsible being 
was just as much an axiom of their thought as that he needed 
to wait upon God for the special grace that would bring him to 
salvation. How they reconciled the two beliefs is a complicated 
story, but for the moment it is necessary to make clear that the 
conception of man as competent to judge on the basis of his in- 
nate reason was perfectly acceptable in Puritan thought, and that 
it was confirmed and sustained by the influence of classical lit- 
erature. ' John Cotton said that reason flows from the soul of 
man and is an inherent part of it; we learn much by experience 
and education, he said, “‘yet there is also an essentiall wisdome in 
us, namely, our Reason which is natural.’ ? William Hubbard 
spoke to the General Court of “Reason, our most faithful and — 
best Councellour.” 3 The first body of College Laws at Harvard 
required the student to be able not merely to read Scripture, but 
“to Resolve them Logically.” + It was not enough for the Puritan 
minister to read his text and apply it as the mood or the spirit 


1 Among the theses defended at Harvard commencements there appear frequently 
““Voluntas est libera”’ (The will is free, e.g. 1653 Theses Physicae No. 15) and other 
enhancements of human ability, such as “An discrimen boni & mali a lege Naturae 
cognoscatur” (Whether discrimination of good and evil may be known by the light 
of nature, 1663 Quaestiones No. 3), ““An Homo sit Causa libera suarum Actionum” 
(May man be the free cause of his own actions, 1669 Quaestiones No. 2) affirmed 
by John Richardson, “Anima Rationalis Creatur”’ (‘The soul is created rational, 1670 
Theses Physicae No. 8), “An notitia Dei sit homini naturalis” (Whether the concep- 
tion of God may be natural to man, 1679 Quaestiones No. 2) affirmed by Thomas 
Brattle, and again by Samuel Russell (1684 Quaestiones No. 6), ““An Cognitio Dei 
sit Homini Naturalis” (Whether cognition of God may be natural to man, 1693 
Quaestiones No. 5) affirmed by Joseph Whiting, ““An Detur Actio humana involun- 
taria” (Whether there exists involuntary human action, 1704 Quaestiones No. 16) 
denied by Ephraim Woodbridge. (See Morison, Harvard College in the Seventeenth 
Century, Appendix B.) These are picked at random, but they demonstrate that, along 
with the theological conception of man as bound in sin and dependent upon divine 
grace, there flourished also the conception of man as responsible, free to choose be- 
tween good and evil, naturally imbued with at least the glimmerings of some good 
principles. 

2 A Practical Commentary ... upon The First Epistle Generall of John (London, 1656), 

ie 
é 3 The Happiness of a People, p. 32. 
4 Morison, The Founding of Harvard College, p. 337. 


Introduction | 25 


dictated; interpretation of scripture was an abstruse art, to be 
learned with diligence, to\be employed with caution, and to be 
regulated by the immutable laws of right reason and infallible 
logic. There is a vast difference between this point of view and 
the evangelical Protestantism which so largely replaced it in sub- 
sequent centuries. To define that difference—the actual antago- 
nism of the two—is not easy, because the evangelicals arrayed their 
thought in theological terms which to our undiscriminating eyes 
seem almost identical; yet the difference can be dramatized at 
once if we compare the use made of scripture in the ordinary 
revival sermon with the manner in which the Puritan minister 
declared that scripture was to be interpreted: 


Sapience or Wisdome properly belongs to Syllogistical Judge- 
ment, and is a virtue of the Understanding, whereby a man dis- 
cerns the dependance of things, and how one follows upon 
another. [It] imports in it a laying of things together in a Syllogis- 
tical way. Hence when men reason amiss, and conclude that 
which is not virtually contained in the Premises, or make wrong 
inferences, they are said to Paralogize themselves. . . . Wisdome 
lyes in the Rational Application of general Rules of Scripture to 
our selves and our own conditions, and in the induction of par- 
ticulars, and due Reasoning from it.! 


~The “enthusiast”? who rushes from his helter-skelter reading into 
some crack-brained interpretation, or the exuberant fanatic who, 
without the training of the scholar, the critic, the logician, and 
the linguist, jumps to the conclusion that he as well as any man 
can read and understand the word of God—these men “‘paralogize 
themselves.” There was hardly a greater sin in the Puritan deca- 
logue. 

The remark of John Cotton which we have just quoted, that 
an essential wisdom dwells within us which is natural reason, 
if read hastily may seem a dull platitude, but Cotton’s putting 
it in precisely these terms made it a very vital sentence. For 
to define human reason in this manner was to take sides in a 
great intellectual revolution that had been fought all over Europe 
during the previous century. The combined force of the Protestant 
revolt against the Papacy and of the humanistic protest against the 
barbarities of the Dark Ages had- inspired a widespread rejection 
of the authority and method of scholasticism. Protestant and 
humanist altered their allegiance to that magnificent structure 


?} Urian Oakes, New-England Pleaded with (Cambridge, 1673), pp. 11-12. 


26 The Puritans 


which the medieval schoolmen had erected as a monument to 
the marriage of reason and faith, the Protestant because the 
system was identified in his mind with Catholicism, the human- 
ist because it had become decayed, lopsided, and fantastic. The 
humanist criticism was the more pertinent. The beautiful sym- 
metry of the scholastic philosophy, as it exists in the work of 
Thomas Aquinas, had been destroyed and perverted by the lesser 
lights of the fifteenth century; in the eyes of intelligent men, 
‘scholasticism by 1500 had become a pointless game of farfetched 
logic-chopping, the deductive process gone mad, a construction 
of syllogisms for the sake of syllogisms, and an elaborate trick of 
speaking nonsense through a series of intellectual handsprings. 
Puritan and Anglican ministers were at one in their condemna- , 
tion of the schoolmen. John Donne said that in order to define 
ignorance, “the schools have made so many divisions, and sub- 
divisions, and re-divisions, and post-divisions of ignorance, that 
there goes as much learning to understand ignorance, as knowl- 
edge.” 1 John Cotton fulminated against “the subtilty and soph- 
istry of the School-men, suppressing the reading of the Scriptures, 
and mixing Philosophy with Divinity, that they might as well 
have studied a point of Aristotle as their divinity, and make as 
good use of the one as of the other.” ? In understanding Puritan 
thought, we must remember that much of it was conditioned, 
like all Protestantism, by its active hostility to a method of think- 
ing which, having prevailed for several centuries, was now be- 
lieved to be prostituted to the ambitions of the Papacy, and 
become the source of all the mischief and “‘superstition” in the 
Church of Rome. 

Yet for men in that period to purge their minds entirely of 
scholasticism was almost impossible, for in many fields there 
existed nothing else to turn to. In so far as scholasticism was a 
defence of the Church of Rome, the Puritans could push it aside 
and set up the Bible. But in so far as scholasticism was a theory 
of physics and of the natural constitution of the world, it was 
more difficult for them to scuttle it, because, though they of course 
did not know it, they lived during that hiatus in scientific history 
when the old was disappearing but the new had not yet suffi- 
ciently emerged. Puritans were cordial enough to the new science 


1 Works, I, 536. 
2 An Exposition upon The Thirteenth Chapter of the Revelation (London, 1656), p. 27. 
3 Cf. Morison, Harvard College in the Seventeenth Century, pp. 130-131. 


Introduction 27 


as it did emerge during the seventeenth century, but when New 
England was founded and Harvard College begun, though the 
literary culture of Humanism had been successfully absorbed into 
the Puritan intellect, the mathematical method had not yet been 
established to supply a coherent account of the natural universe. 
Consequently, in physics the Puritan retained his scholasticism, 
and only gradually abandoned it as the triumph of Newtonian / 
physics became assured.! But the important point is this: absurd 
as scholasticism may seem to one familiar with modern science, 
futile as may seem its explanations by means of qualities and 
quiddities, rather than of quantities and motions, still to any one 
who had yet to learn the newer hypothesés, scholastic physics 
gave an account of the natural world which was at any rate 
orderly, sensible, regular, and causal. Oakes’s sermon on the effi- 
cacy of divine providence (pp. 350-367) is still speaking of natural 
processes in scholastic language, and the point of his discourse is 
that God can interrupt or reverse the laws of physics, and that 
even when they operate undisturbed they produce only effects 
ordered by God; yet the inference throughout is that in ordinary 
life, day in and day out, the processes of nature follow regular 
and predictable laws. That the Puritans in their conception of 
physics retained the terminology and notions of scholasticism was 
an inevitable result of their living when and where they did; 
that they retained of scholasticism primarily its physics meant 
that there was no essential connection between scholastic science 
and religious dogma, so that, although some of the more con- 
servative were reluctant to change, Puritans on the whole were 
quite willing to abandon the old theories for the new when the 
new had proved their case. The theological moral of the natural 
world seemed to such a man as Oakes the same, whether the 
natural world were explained as forms and substances, or as atoms 
and motion. : 

It was in the realm of logic that the revolt against scholasticism 
left the most important mark upon Puritan culture. The Protes- 
tant, reinforced by the humanist, or rather by his own humanism, 
found that scholasticism had become a stagnant and barren way 
of thinking, it had become over-subtle, irresponsible, formal; the 
new learning demanded that rational men go about thinking in 
straightforward, commonsense terms, that they go directly to the 
point and keep out of the tangled labyrinth of scholastic involu- 


1 Tbid., pp. 224-251. 


28 The Puritans 


tions. Various churches and various groups of scholars devised 
their own methods for replacing the logic of the schoolmen, but 
for the Puritans of New England there was one man above all 
to whom they looked for guidance in the management of reason 
—the great French Protestant, a martyr in the St. Bartholomew 
massacre, Petrus Ramus.} 

Ramus, as his name was Latinized, or Pierre de la Ramée as 
he was christened, was as much a figure in the Protestant world 
of the 1630’s as Charles Darwin in the scientific world of the 
1930’s. He was the great discoverer and formulator in the preced- 
ing century of a method that seemed to promise liberation from 
the tyranny of outworn notions, and he seemed to have in- 
augurated a new era in the history of thought. Ramus electri- 
fied the learned in 1536 by maintaining, as his Master of Arts thesis, 
that “all that Aristotle has said is forged,’? which was equiva- 
lent to saying that the doctors and professors of the Church had 
been wasting their time, because the scholastic discipline was 
based upon Aristotle. ‘To make good his word, Ramus spent the 
rest of his life producing a staggering array of books on almost 
every major subject, to show in each field wherein Aristotelian 
and scholastic dectrine had been wrong, and wherein the correct 
method should consist. Ramus was primarily a humanist: he did 
not become converted to Protestantism until 1561, but his assas- 
sination enshrined him forever in Protestant sentiment. What 
Protestantism found most valuable in his voluminous work was 
his logic; it was carried by his disciples to England, was par- 
ticularly cultivated at the University of Cambridge, and so be- 
came the standard method followed by the New England divines 
in their reasoning and in their sermonizing. They naturally carried 
it to New England, and though at Harvard College the scholastic 
method was also taught 2—on the theory that ministers needed 
to know all doctrines, even if only to refute them—the Ramean 
method was the one approved. In the course of the century the 
mathematical method of the new science, the method of Descartes, 
and the inductive method of Baconian investigation became 
known, and Puritans maintained a hospitable mind toward 
them all. They were able to do so in large part because the 
teaching of Ramus was, as it now seems to us, a preparation 


1 Cf. Morison, Harvard College in the Seventeenth Century, pp. 185-190. 
2 Thtd,, Ds 1 93; 
3 Ibid., pp. 167, 168; cf. p. 721. 


Introduction 29 


for that of Descartes, and the inferences from it proved friendly 
to what turned out to be the new science. 

Ramus seemed to men of the Renaissance to offer liberation, 
simplification, and clarity. To them he seemed to have been 
raised up, as though by divine providence, to combine in one 
personality the three dominant characters of the age, humanist, 
Protestant, and logician; not only to Puritans but to humanists 
like Sir Philip Sidney he promised liberation from the gloomy 
cave of scholastic metaphysics into the spacious meadows of clas- 
sical literature. He put into the hands of Protestant divines and 
scholars dialectical spears with which they could pierce the meta- 
physical armor of the Catholic champions. One of his principal 
contentions was that logical processes and figures were to be il- 
lustrated from classical poets, orators, and historians rather than 
from works of technical disputation; 1 for example, in order to 
show how dissimilar qualities may be compared, Ramus does not 
erect a hypothetical contrast of abstractions but employs the con- 
trast made in a famous love lyric of Catullus between suns and 
the lives of lovers, that suns are able to die and to rise again, but 
for lovers, when the brief light of life fails, there remains but 
perpetual night.? Logic taught in this manner inevitably became 
fresh and exhilarating; it formed new and intoxicating alliances 
with rhetoric and classical scholarship. Puritan writers were lo- 
gicians to a man, and Puritan sermons were severely logical in 
structure, but all according to the logic of Ramus, which was 
a relatively simple, clear-cut, and commonsense system, and 
one which furthermore furnished good authority for the study and 
even for the quotation of Catullus and Vergil in order to elucidate 
the fine points of divinity. 

Ramus was able to assert that the principles of logic were 
embodied in the writings of poets, because he went upon the as- 
sumption that a simple and comprehensible order permeated the 
universe. Great writers, speaking out of their inward being, were 
speaking from nature herself, and through them, he said, nature 
reveals herself. “Science ought, therefore, to study the lessons that 
are innate in select minds . . . and upon them as a model should 
formulate the rules for those who desire to reason well.” > His 


1 Petrus Ramus, Dialecticae Libri Duo (London, 1669), p. 50. 

2 [bid., p. 22. 

3 Frank P. Graves, Peter Ramus and the Educational Reformation of the Sixteenth Century 
(New York, 1912), pp. 145-147. 


f 


30 ; The Puritans 


logic is a typically Renaissance product in that it was intended not 
so much for proof and analysis as for assertion. It will not stand 
up under the rigorous scrutiny of a modern logician; it could 
not even survive once it came into competition with Locke. Yet 
it was ideally adapted to the times, because it cleared away the 
rubbish of scholasticism and yet did not challenge but rather 
strengthened the authoritarianism that was still as essential to 
a Renaissance philosophy of religion as it had been to a medieval.! 
The Ramean logic was an instrument for setting forth only re- 
ceived truth, simply and concisely, and Ramus himself compressed 
the essential outlines into sixty pages. It was a short cut to demon- 
stration, resting squarely and firmly upon the conviction that the 
world is a comprehensible logical structure to which the mind 
of man, in spite of the fall of Adam and human corruption, al- 
most exactly corresponds.’ 

Though the Ramean logic was actually much less of a depar- 


1 Hardin Craig, The Enchanted Glass (Oxford, 1936), pp. 140-146, 149-151, 156- 
158, 198-202. 

2 Ramus’s textbook, Dialecticae Libri Duo, first published 1556, frequently republished 
in England, was used continuously in seventeenth-century New England, and was 
supplemented by his other works. The Dialecticae was published in England with a 
commentary by William Temple, 1584, but it was generally read by English students 
bound up with Commentarit by George Downame (first delivered as lectures in 1590), 
which provide the best text for study of the full implications of the system. It can also 
be read in brief form in Milton’s Artis Logicae, plenior institutio, at Petri Rami methodum 
concinnata, published in 1672, reprinted Works, ed. John Mitford (London, 1851), 
VII, 1-185, and in other editions of Milton. At Harvard Milton’s work was used, and 
an earlier handbook, Marcus Friedrich Wendelin, Logicae institutiones tironum adolescentium 
captui accommodatae, 1654. For versions in English the best examples are Abraham 
Fraunce, The Lawiers Logike, 1588, and Alexander Richardson, The Logicians School- 
Master, 1657, a commentary that circulated in manuscript at both Cambridges for 
several decades before it was printed. However, the student of New England history 
can best review the system in Samuel Johnson’s Technologia Sive Technometria, a manu- 
script summary by Johnson when an undergraduate at Yale, and published with an 
excellent introduction and a translation in Samuel Johnson, ed. Herbert and Carol 
Schneider (New York, 1929), II, 57-95. Johnson completed the manuscript on Novem- 
ber 11, 1714, and in a later note on the margin records that by November 11, 1715, 
“T was wholly changed to the New Learning,” by which he means the logic and 
philosophy of John Locke. Among the more conservative New England divines the 
Ramean logic died a more lingering death, but by the time of Jonathan Edwards’ 
active career it had generally expired, and with it had gone the philosophy of original 
Puritanism. Edwards’ Calvinism is Calvinism harmonized as far as possible with 
Locke; the Calvinism of early New England was colored by a totally different meta- 
physic. Of the general accounts of Ramus the best are still the articles in Bayle’s 
Dictionary or in Charles Waddington, Ramus, Sa vie, ses écrits, et ses opinions (Paris, 
1855); cf. also Frank P. Graves, Peter Ramus and the Educational Reformation of the Six- 
teenth Century; for the influence of Ramus at Cambridge University, cf. J. B. Mul- 
linger, History of Cambridge, II, 406-411. 


Introduction ot 


ture from Aristotle than Ramists pretended, and though Ramus’ 
own knowledge of Plato was very imperfect, the basic premise of 
his system was a Platonic conception: that the world is a copy 
or material counterpart of an ordered hierarchy of ideas existing 
in the mind of God.! All that logic need do, therefore, is to draw 
up an account of how things follow one another i in nature, and 
if the account corresponds to the way things actually are, men 
can safely act upon it. The generalized concepts of the nha 
the principles of ‘‘art,’? are not human constructions, not mere 
hypotheses or useful categories, but eternal and inviolable ideas, 
the authentic realities upon which the world is constructed. Truth 
therefore becomes for the Ramist, and through him for the Puri- 
tan, clear-eyed perception of immutable essences, beauty becomes 
correspondence to them, virtue becomes conformity to them. The 
method of discovering them is inward; they exist not only in 
nature but in the human intelligence, and though much study 
and caution are necessary in deriving them from the mind, since 
the mind is corrupted by sin, and the rules of logic must always 
preside over the formulating of them, still the soul contains an 
intuitive knowledge of the eternal truths, which truths also govern 
the world.3 

The Ramean logic therefore was not so much what we think 
of as logic as it was a grouping of all the ideas, sensations, causes, 
and perceptions in the world, laying them out in a simple and 
symmetrical pattern, so that a diagram of the logic with its divi- 
sions and subdivisions was practically a blueprint of the universe. 
It was a simple scheme, but it was also, Ramus insisted, true and 
useful. Indeed, his emphasis was possibly more upon its utility 
than upon its simplicity or truth, and there were many dialectical 


1 For the impact of Plato on Ramus, see Waddington, pp. 24-27, 35; in the six- 
teenth century he was called “the French Plato” (Graves, p. 92). Of course the ‘‘Pla- 
tonic” conception of a world built upon ideas or exempla in the mind of God was part 
and parcel of the Christian tradition, and Puritans held it as much because of Augustine 
as because of Ramus; but since they already entertained the fundamental belief, 
Ramus’ logic was all the more acceptable to them. 

2 Cf. “Ars igitur naturam sibi propositam semper habeat, exercitatio artem” (Art 
therefore always pre-supposes nature, as exercise does art), Waddington, p. 368. 

3 Ramus said that man has in himself naturally the power to know all things, and 
that when he sets before his eyes the art of thinking according to these innate universal 
concepts, it will show him as in a mirror the universal and generalized images of all 
things, so that he can then recognize by them the singular species and find a place 
for every thing in the cosmology, though Ramus adds that many examples, hard 
work, and long usage are necessary to polish the mirror before it will be able to supply 
the images of the universals (Waddington, p. 370). 


BS i hon 
NSD) 


forth the) light to others,” said Increase Mather, and by that 


K 


32 The Puritans 


Gordian knots which he endeavored to cut rather than untangle, 
so that the permanent value of his contribution to the science of 
thought is not great. But the very utility of his system assured 
men of the early seventeenth century that it must be true, and 
Puritans seized upon it avidly. Ramus believed that he derived 
the guiding principle of his groupings and classifications from 
Plato, the principle of ‘‘dichotomy,”’ that is, that all ideas and 
things go in pairs, like the animals into the ark, because the 
world is symmetrical. Thus logic itself is divided into halves, in 
the first of which individual ideas or arguments are formulated, 
in the second put together in axioms and doctrines, just as gram- 
mar is divided into “etymology,” the study of words, and “syn- 
tax,” the putting of words together in sentences. Ideas in turn 
are divided into two sorts, those which establish themselves to our 
own experience and those which rest upon the authority of a 
witness, as do facts in history or the assertions of the Bible. The 
task of the logician (and the preacher must be a logician) was 
that of arranging everything in pairs under the proper rubrics. 
Thinking was not conceived as a method by which we compose 
our knowledge discovery by discovery, but as the unveiling of an 
ideal form. Knowledge was a schedule to be filled in, and this 
end, it seemed to Ramus and the Puritans, was best accomplished 
by pairing every idea and object with its counterpart, sun with 
moon, man with woman, cause with effect, subject with adjunct. 
When all existence was thus systematized, the problem of seeing 
the architecture of the whole, of grasping the diagram of the uni- 
verse, became relatively simple. It consisted merely of arranging 
the pairs so that the more general came before the specific, the 
genus before the species, the important before the subsidiary. 
The final function of logic, as Ramus taught it, was “method.” 
“That great and famous Martyr of France, Peter Ramus, held 


light he discovered the proper manner ‘“‘wherein Scriptural Defi- 
nitions and Distributions, expressing the Sum of the only true 
Christian Religion, are methodically disposed, according to the 
golden Rules of Art.” + In defining the intellectual character of 
the New England Puritans, we must always exercise caution 


/about calling them Calvinists. John Calvin’s metaphysics were 


still Aristotelian and scholastic; New Englanders had thrown aside 


1 Preface to James Fitch, The first Principles of the Doctrine of Christ (Boston, 1679), 
Sig. A2, verso. 


Introduction 33 


much of the philosophy which is implied at every point in Calvin’s 
theology, and had taken up a system of which the implications 
were quite different. 

The most striking example of the difference can be seen in the 
uses to which the Ramists put the logical procedures historically 
known as “disjunction” and “‘hypothesis.”” When Ramus had 
arrayed all things and all ideas in pairs, he found that while 
some pairs harmonize with each other, as do cause and effect, 
others set up oppositions, as do night and day, true and false, 
in and out. Therefore he provided a large place in his plan for 
serried ranks of opposites or contraries, all of which he classified 
according to his system of dichotomies. His principal English 
commentator admitted freely that the doctrine of diversities was 
to be found only in Ramus,! but in a fashion characteristic of 
the Ramists, asserted that if the example of reason and experience 
were observed, the necessity for the doctrine would become clear 
at once. The reason other logicians had conspired against it, he 
said, was that scholastic logic had been enslaved by the syllogism, 
and the Aristotelians had striven to confine all thinking processes 
to the three figures of the syllogism as defined by Aristotle. Thus 
one of the chief grudges of the Ramists against Aristotle was the 
tyranny of the syllogism; Ramus assigned it a very minor role 
in his “method,” where it served upon occasion merely to clear 
up individual arguments, so that they could be placed in their 
proper place in the grand sequence. As he debased the syllogism, 
he exalted the doctrine of contraries; ideas could be immediately 
distinguished by setting them against their opposites; a good could 
be defined by placing it against the corresponding evil, and thus 
sounder conclusions could be reached in the twinkling of an eye 
than in whole centuries of fruitless disputation with the cumber- 
some form of the syllogism.? 

Ramus did not limit the doctrine of opposites to single ideas. 
If the principle of instantaneous recognition of contraries by the 
human mind would serve to sort out particular ideas and words, 
it would serve as well for more complex alternatives, for immediate 
adjudication between opposing doctrines as well as between op- 
posing words. The Renaissance logician did not distinguish be- 


1 “TD iversorum doctrina ab omnibus praeter Ramum Logicis omissa est,”” George 
Downame, Commentarii (London, 1669), p. 129. 

2 For the scheme of opposites, disparates, and contraries, see Ramus, Dialecticae, 
pp. 10-14; Milton, Artis Logicae, pp. 36-54; Johnson, Technologia, pp. 74-76. 


34 The Puritans 


tween a fact, an idea, or a doctrine to the extent of treating them 
as different logical counters; an opposition could be set up be- 
tween black and white, bad and good, salvation by works and 
salvation by faith. In each case the mind was simply called upon 
to say which of the two corresponded to the divine order. The 
way to test the truth of a statement was to ask oneself a question: 
it is either thus and so or it is not, which? Or else the way was 
to suppose it true and see if it would prove itself, by saying, if 
it is so, then such and such must follow, and if such and such is © 
true, then the statement must be true. The methods of disjunc- 
tion and hypothesis probably take their origin from Plato, whether 
or not Ramus derived them from him. They are certainly methods 
that follow obviously from a belief in the Platonic world, where , 
all things are ranged in a hierarchy of ideas and the philosophical 
problem is to sort the genus into species and the species into sub- 
species. The Ramists proclaimed that Ramus’ rehabilitation of 
disjunction and hypothesis was his greatest contribution to logic; 
Ramus himself insisted that they be elevated to the title of “‘syl- 
logisms’’; calling the three conventional Aristotelian syllogisms 
*‘simple’’ ones, he denominated disjunction and hypothesis “‘com- 
posite.”” He remarked that ‘‘composite”’ syllogisms were the ones 
men actually used most frequently, and that this fact alone jus- 
tified the dignity with which he invested them.! His English ex- 
positor was still more aggressive; admitting that the authority of 
Aristotle was opposed to composite syllogisms, Downame exultantly 
declared that nevertheless Aristotle himself used them again and 
again, once in the very passage in which he denied their validity, 
that furthermore the practice of the best writers and above all 
of the Bible itself thoroughly exonerated them.” Therefore if the 
Holy Ghost thought by means of composite syllogisms, students 
of Ramus considered that they were free to employ them on 
every occasion, and New England divines believed that a con- 
clusion established by their aid was as strong as one confirmed 
by Holy Writ. 

If we turn to a Puritan textbook, written according to the 
“golden rules’ of art as taught by Petrus Ramus, we can per- 
ceive what the Ramean revolution in logic meant in practice. 
For example, in the book for the preface of which Increase Mather 
wrote the praise of Ramus already quoted, the author, James 


1 Ramus, Dialecticae, pp. 44-46; Johnson, Technologia, pp. 93-95. 
2 Downame, Commentarii, p. 448. 


Introduction 35 


Fitch, pastor at Norwich, Connecticut, discusses the question 
whether the world was created or is eternal. The scholastic way 
of settling this inquiry would have been through the syllogism; 
a schoolman might argue, for example, all temporal things are 
made, the world is a temporal thing, ergo, the world is made.! 
He would seek to rehearse Aristotle’s complicated argument for 
the first unmoved mover of all things, and would spend much 
time refuting all other propositions. But the disciple of Ramus 
puts all this aside as superfluous and inconclusive. He says that 
by using demonstrations of this sort it would be equally easy to 
prove that there is a continuous and eternal succession of motions, 
with no necessity for a first unmoved mover. Instead of employ- 
ing ‘‘simple’’ syllogisms, the Ramist invokes the “‘composite”’ and 
solves the disjunctive by the hypothetical. He asks himself the 
question, the world was either made or not made, which? Then 
he answers himself to his own complete satisfaction: if it was not 
made, then there was no cause for its being, there is no design 
in it, no end for which it exists, and any man in his senses knows 
that these are absurd conclusions. Ergo, the world was made. 
Then he continues his self-interrogation, it was either made by 
God, or it made itself. Hypothesis demonstrates at once that the 
second alternative is untenable, and so the Ramist triumphantly 
concludes that God must have made it.? 

Undoubtedly the Ramean logic was much too facile, and when 
it was employed by shallow minds that were utterly unskilled in 
the more noble if more tortuous logic of the schoolmen, it pro- 
duced a breed of disputants so fascinated by their own logic- 
chopping they could not see the open fallacies in their method. 
Yet whether the Ramean logic was a good one or a bad one does 
not concern us; historically speaking, the importance of such 
reasoning as that of James Fitch is its recurrent appeal to an 
innate, a priori knowledge. He does not attempt to establish an 
invincible case in the void, but to establish a case which no human 
being in possession of his wits can deny. The syllogism strikes 


1 Tt is interesting to note that the greatest of the scholastics found the assertion of 
this very proposition impossible to establish by rational demonstration and was con- 
strained to rest his case with a demonstration that no arguments for the negative were 
any better than those for the affirmative (St. Thomas Aquinas, Summa Contra Gentiles, 
Bk. II, chaps. XXXI-XXXVIII); where the Angelic Doctor treads cautiously 
through many pages of his most wary reasoning, the Puritan pastor confidently 
rushes in to “‘prove”’ the point in a paragraph, 

2 James Fitch, The first Principles, p. 17. 


36 ) The Puritans 


downward vertically, so to speak, driving the mind before it, 
where disjunction extends horizontally for the contemplation of 
self-reflecting intelligence. The Ramean logic is the logic of a 
Humanist, the conclusions come from within, they are not reached 
by piling one brick upon another in a shaky and top-heavy se- 
quence, but by the prompt and decisive arbitration of the natural 
reason between two possibilities. Puritan preachers and disputants 
would use the syllogism wherever they found it profitable; more 
often they would establish their points by the use of disjunction, 
by ruling out the alternative which all men, on the strength of 
their native intelligence, would be compelled to admit could not 
hold water.* 

Thus when John Cotton spoke of an “essentiall wisdome in 
us, namely, our Reason which is natural,’ he was speaking from 
his Ramean training. What such an assumption might lead to 
in a man’s philosophy can readily enough be seen, at least in 
broad outline. For if the way to test the truth of things is by the 
measure of a rationality implicit in man, then there must be an 
inherent rationality in things, in the mind, in the order of the 
universe; only if this is so can a careful examination of the in- 


1 The rule of disjunction was crystallized into a number of convenient aphorisms 
which practitioners of the logic repeatedly cited as the ultimate in human wisdom. 
Thus Milton says, improving on Ramus, “‘Itaque ex altero affrmato alterum negatur” 
(Thus by the one affirmed the other is negated), or “Ex affirmatione unius, necessario 
sequitur negatio alterius’” (From affirmation of the one there follows necessarily 
negation of the other), Artis Logicae, pp. 40-41. Johnson has it, “Hic etiam fictum 
arguet alterum verum”’ (For this being a fiction argues the other true), Technologia, 
p. 76. Samuel Willard, giving a young scholar directions for studying for the ministry, 
tells him that he must learn the wrong doctrines as well as the right ones, reduce all 
to their proper heads and ascertain their opposites; he then quotes the Ramean com- 
monplace, “Quibus Argumentis Veritas astruitur, iisdem Falsitas destruitur” (By the 
same arguments with which truth is established, falsity is destroyed), Brief Directions 
to a Young Scholar Designing the Ministry (Boston, 11735), p. 4. How disjunction was used 
in actual sermons can be illustrated from Willard’s method of proving that the right- 
eousness of Christ is merely “imputed” to the elect for their legal justification and not 
““infused”’ directly into them, as the Antinomians claimed: ‘“That the individual and 
personal Righteousness of Christ cannot be infused into a Believer, is a truth so plain 
and necessary, that to assert the contrary, is to speak a contradiction, and therefore if 
it be any way ours, it must needs be imputed to us. Everyone that knows anything of 
the nature of things’? knows that the acts of one man cannot be infused into another, 
but, Willard says, ‘‘on the other hand, this is a notion that is very well agreeing with 
common reason, that another did such a thing for this man, such as one paid a Debt for 
him,” A Brief Discourse of Justification (Boston, 1686), p. 65. Thus, thanks to Ramus’ 
doctrine of opposites and his glorification of “‘composite” syllogisms, the actual arbiter 
in New England theology, time and time again, was not Calvin, not even the Bible, so — 
much as it was “plain and necessary. truth,” the ‘‘nature of things,” or “common 
reason.” 


Introduction 37 


tellect, a checking of all propositions by the instinctive knowledge 
of the soul, result in finding the true propositions. Therefore the 
way to avoid “‘paralogizing”’ yourself is to consult, with scrupulous 
care and dispassionate honesty, the essential wisdom within your- 
self, which, being natural and true, will enable you to reason 
correctly. The material world is transitory and deceptive, the 
passions of men ebb and flow, men make mistakes, accidents 
happen, and God can override or turn aside all natural processes; 
but something eternal and immutable does exist, and by that we 
must live. There are a number of propositions, fitting together 
into a harmonious whole, upon which things are built, to which 
they correspond, which they must follow, which they do follow 
even when to earthly eyes they seem to be accidental and for- 
tuitous. The sum total of these eternal propositions, the completed 
system of truth, exists only in the mind of God, but that it does 
exist we know, because we in small part share in it; some of the 
divine truth does exist in our minds. In the counsel of God, so 
the argument runs—a clear consequence of this Ramean position 
—there must be this “‘idea or pattern of well acting’; hence God 
in acting follows it of his own free choice, and he therefore must 
‘create his creatures in accordance with this pattern; “and that 
wisdome in. the creatures is imprinted, and is the impression or 
Image of it.”” Hence the “rules of art,” the rules that God follows 
in organizing and governing the world, the rules that enable us 
to tell which of the disjunctive alternatives must be wrong and 
which is clearly right, these rules of art must be eternal, though all 
material objects which exemplify them are transitory and illusory. 
Though men are unstable and life is full of pitfalls, there is a divine 
wisdom that governs and controls all. ‘“The definitions of things 
are eternal Truths, whatever becomes of the things themselves.” 2 

There can be no doubt that this way of thinking is a species 


1 Cf. ‘An Dentur Ideae innatae” (Whether there exist innate ideas), affirmed by 
John Whiting at the Commencement of 1703 (Quaestiones No. 2), Morison, Harvard 
College in the Seventeenth Century, Appendix B. 

2 Fitch, The first Principles, p. 15. Cf. among the Harvard theses: “‘Veritas est con- 
formitas intellectus cum re” (Truth is intellectual conformity with fact, 1643 Theses 
Metaphysicae No. 5); “‘Artium praecepta sunt aeternae veritatis” (The precepts of the 
arts are of eternal truth, 1653 Theses Technologicae No. 3); ““Utrum Detur Idaea 
omnium Entium in primo Ente” (Whether there exists an idea of all beings in the 
primary being, 1664 Quaestiones No. 2) affirmed by Nathaniel Chauncy; ‘‘Non ab 
artifice Ars, sed ab arte artifex creatur’”’ (The art is not created by the artisan, but the 
artisan by the art, 1678 Theses Technologicae No. 13); “Idea est res percepta, prout 
est in intellectu objective” (An idea is a thing perceived, as it is objectively in the 


The Puritans 


f 


38 


of Platonism. It is a method of establishing the pre-existence of 
ideas, or of a divine pattern, to which the world roughly con- 
forms and by which all movement and contingency are to be ex- 


intellect, 1687 Theses Technologicae No. 2); ‘‘Praecepta Artium non formamus, sed 
formata invenimus”’ (We do not form the precepts of the arts, but come upon them 
formed, 1693 Theses Technologicae No. 5). Samuel Johnson began his summary of 
the system with the central doctrine of the Ramean logic: ‘Artem suos reflectere 
radios in intellectum intelligentis creaturae ab antiquissimes, ideoque cum intelli- 
gente creatura reflexum suum habere ortum manifeste apparet ...” (It is manifest 
that art has reflected its rays into the intellect of intelligent creatures from greatest 
antiquity, and therefore has its reflex origin in the intelligent creature); he distin- 
guishes between “‘art,”’ i.e., logic, as it exists in the mind of God, which he calls “‘arche- 
typal’’ and describes as the idea of things decreed in the divine intelligence, and art as 
it exists in the visible world, which he calls “‘typal’”’ and describes as manifesting itself 
on the one hand in the ideas impressed upon the creature and on the other in the rules 
gathered from the actions and operations of things by the senses, observations and 
experience (Johnson, Technologia, pp. 58-68). Josiah Flynt, graduating in 1664, pub- 
lished the almanac for 1666 and presented therein an argument similar to that 
already quoted from James Fitch concerning the creation of the world; here in the 
one publication designed for popular consumption the citizens of Massachusetts Bay 
were given a succinct statement of Puritan Platonism: 

*“<. . The Divine Idea (If I speak in the dialect of some learned and pious) being 
God contemplating himself as imitable in the creatures fabrick, or as it were capable 
to receive the impression of the Jmage or Vestigium of those divine perfections which 
were in himself; it follows that whatever perfection was eminently in God, and the 
creature was Analogically capable of, was according to divine wisdome expressed 
(for otherwise the Idea or Exemplar would not have been consentaneous to the 7é 
mpatropuevov)”” (Morison, Harvard College in the Seventeenth Century, p. 278). 

Note the decisive use of disjunction in the last sentence. The mparréuevoy means 
roughly the achieving, the realization, the passing over of the ideal into actualization. 
It was this Platonic conception of a realm of eternal and pure ideas passing into realiza- 
tion in a realm of matter which made possible the Puritan hierarchy of values—from 
those of sense to those of Reason, from those of Reason to those of Faith. Thus Fitch 
expounded it: 

“‘Reason in a believer isa means to let in a light and good beyond Reason, that as the 
senses are means to present the Reason in things to the Reason of man, although 
Reason is above Sense, so Reason is a means to present a divine good unto Faith, 
though that divine good is above Reason, but as Reason can use the Prattomenon of the 
Rule of Sense, (namely) that which is effected by it, so Faith can use the Prattomenon 
of the Rule of Reason, that which is effected by it, and yet these are distinct arts, and 
have distinct Objects, and distinct lights”’ (The first Principles, p. 4). For the philosoph- 
ical significance of Platonism in the thought of the early seventeenth century, see 
Etienne Gilson, Etudes sur le Role de la pensée médiéval dans la formation du systéme Cartésien, 
especially pp. 30-36, 48, 193-201. To characterize the Puritans as ‘‘Platonists’” may 
create more confusion than clarification, because Platonism has come to be a battle- 
ground of interpretation; yet if we accept Platonism in the definition of Dean Inge— 
‘‘the conception of an unseen world, of which the visible world is but a pale copy’—we 
can list the Puritans in that camp. This is, of course, to say no more than that they were 
in the main stream of Christian tradition; in order to determine what special species 
of the Platonic genus we may call New England Puritanism we must consider 
the actual background, the modifying influences of the environment, with the 
‘‘climate of opinion” in the seventeenth century, and the climate, meteorological and 
mental, of the new world. But it should be noted that if Puritanism is Platonic in that 


Introduction | 39 


plained. The Ramean logic might be said to be one of the several 
forms in which Platonism was revived in the Renaissance and 
enlisted in the humanists’ and the theologians’ battle with scho- 
lasticism. But without pursuing the philosophical problem too far 
afield, we can for the moment rest with this reflection, that the 
humanist strain in Puritan culture, represented by the classical 
authors and the logic of Petrus Ramus, made for the conception 
of a fundamental rationality in the universe and in the mind of 
man. Because the Puritans were humanists, they could not rest 
in a belief that God’s decrees were nothing but arbitrary fiats. 
They held that God was indeed sovereign and absolute lord, but 
not entirely a capricious, ruthless, unpredictable tyrant. They 
held that man was indeed caught in the toils of sin, but they did 
not hold that he was so empty a creature that he needed to be 
filled with grace in any such crude fashion as a toy balloon is 
filled with air. In his fallen state he still can test the validity of 
reasons and reach a vision, if only a sort of distant perception, 
of the serene order that really prevails. ‘The grace of God, which 
is a special and additional imparting of His spirit to man, whose 
reason is already endowed with some inklings of the divine nature, 
this grace is not some emotional cataclysm, an attack of the 
jerks, an agitation “with Antick and uncouth motions.’’ ! On the 
contrary it is an elevation of reason, a freshening and quickening 
of the understanding; it is an imparting to man of that spark of 
imagination and that breadth of insight whereby he can at last 
perceive in part, and apprehend in the rest, the essential unity 
of life, and the essential reasonableness of things. As a great 
Puritan preacher put it, John Preston, who was the Master of 
Emmanuel College at Cambridge, England, and who was looked 
upon as one of their chief intellectual progenitors by New Eng- 
landers, divine grace “‘elevateth reason, and makes it higher, it 
makes it see further than reason could, it is contrary indeed to 
corrupt reason, but to reason that is right reason, it is not con- 
trary, only it raiseth it higher: And therefore faith teacheth 
nothing contrary to sense and reason.’’* Thomas Hooker told 
his congregations that conversion made “things appear as they 
be,” that the regenerate man is the man who at last understands 
it was occupied with the detemporalized hierarchy of ideas, it is not that sort of 
Platonism that looks upon the visible world as mere illusion, utterly unreal, or abso- 
lutely evil. 


1 Norton, Heart of N-England Rent, p. 6. 
2 The Cuppe of Blessing (London, 1633), p. 13. 


40 7 The Puritans 


what he already knows, or could have known, in his reason: 
“look what the truth determines, reason approves, and Con- 
science witnesseth ... Such judg not by outward appearance 
as it is the guise of men of corrupt minds, but upon experience, 
that which they have found and felt in their own hearts.” 1 At 
the end of the century a Puritan minister is still insisting, ‘Spiritual 
Light received in Conversion, strengthens the reason of men, and 
makes the law of nature more legible.” * A few decades more, 
and there would be ministers who insisted that spiritual light was © 
something entirely different from the reason of man and quite 
other than the law of nature; and consequently other ministers 
would reply that in that case spiritual light must be insanity, 
and that if they had to choose they preferred the reason of men 
and the law of nature. The seamless garment of Puritanism thus 
was rent, and the edifice erected by the founders in order to 
justify God’s ways to man was riven in two; in the one half came 
to dwell those who no longer made any effort to justzfy God’s ways, 
and in the other those who preferred to set up the ways of man 
for approbation and imitation by the divinity. 

In this fashion, then, Puritanism attempted to appropriate the 
heritage of humanism and to embody it in a system of Christian 
belief and a theological conception of the world. It did not turn 
its back upon the new literary learning, as it did not turn its 
back upon the still newer scientific learning that burgeoned during 
the century. Puritanism was an outgrowth of the advanced culture 
of its day; its basic ideas as to the function of the human mind 
and the responsibilities of the human soul were common to Chris- 
tendom at the time, its fundamental doctrines were common to 
Protestantism at the time, the texture and range of its learning 
were common to educated opinion of the time, its struggle to 
maintain homogeneity in religious thought, to unify religion and 
knowledge, was common to all devout and intelligent men of the 
time. Thinking men were all in one way or another still domi- 
nated by the medieval tradition of unity, and could break away 
from the scholastic formulation of that unity only by endeavor- 
ing to achieve another formulation in more satisfactory terms. 
The chief elements in Puritan culture, therefore, the foundations 
of Puritan thought, “‘ninety per cent” of its ideas, roughly speak- 
ing, are to be accounted for by a study of the age and background. 


1 The Application of Redemption, p. 557. 
2 Solomon Stoddard, The Danger of Speedy Degeneracy (Boston, 1705), p. 11. 


Introduction 41 


But we are still left with the question: What then was the es- 
sence of Puritanism, apart from beliefs and opinions common to 
others in the period, what was this precious “‘ten per cent’’ that 
made the difference? What particular devices did the Puritans 
employ in formulating the unity of knowledge and religion which 
divided them sharply and fatally from the Anglicans? For if the 
war between the Puritans and the Church of England was an 
engagement between men who, from our point of view at least, 
were agreed on the larger assumptions, the concrete issue must 
be narrowed down to a difference of deduction from those 
premises. The evidence of history goes to show that the bitterest 
and most furious combats are generally fought between those 
who agree on fundamentals, for there is no greater annoyance 
that a man can suffer than attack from persons who accord with 
him in the main, but who apply his principles to conclusions 
utterly foreign to his liking. Puritanism started from the back- 
ground and the beliefs we have been outlining; it then worked 
its way to certain concrete applications, and it was these specific 
deductions that made Puritanism Puritanical. 


4. The Essential Issue 


Where Puritanism and the Church of England at last parted 
company, after marching abreast over so immense a terrain, may 
conveniently be illustrated if we begin with a statement of William 
Laud himself, the Archbishop of Canterbury and the archfoe of 
the Puritans, whose head they finally chopped off. In 1622 Laud, 
then Bishop of London, held a conference with a Jesuit, in the 
course of which he drew up an excellent statement of the posi- 
tion of the Church of England. Inevitably the nub of this debate 
was the authority of scripture, and Laud set forth the grounds 
upon which the Protestant, believing still in the unity of reason 
and faith, maintaining the harmony of knowledge and belief, 
could nevertheless anchor his whole system to the arbitrary word 
of God, to the ukase of revelation handed down from on high 
by the absolute Tsar of the universe. The Catholic was arguing 
that if the authority of the Universal Church were disowned, the 
Bible would prove an inadequate substitute, because the Bible 
would become subject to interpretation, no two men would agree 
on what it meant, Protestantism would split into a hundred dif- 
fering sects, each one twisting Biblical meanings to suit its own 


42 The Puritans 


convenience, and thus scripture would lose all the necessary at- 
tributes of an authority. Laud answered that there was no danger 
of this happening in Protestant thought, because the authority 
of the Bible was established by a logical necessity. In every science, 
he said, certain principles outside its own limits must be supplied 
before the science can proceed; geometry must be built upon 
a priort axioms, that the whole is greater than the part, etc. 
The basic principles of the sciences are “given’’ in the natural 
reason—exactly as Ramus demonstrates. But in divinity, which 
is the science of the divine, the basic principles must come from 
the divine, and therefore must be given, if at all, by God. Con- 
sequently, unless Protestants abandoned theology entirely, which 
was not possible for Laud to imagine, they would always pro- 
ceed in the science of theology upon divine axioms, laid down 
by God, believed exactly as all axioms are believed, because, 
though they cannot be demonstrated to be true, yet no thinking 
can go on unless they are true. The axioms enacted by God are 
accepted by faith. The Bible is believed, not on the authority of 
any Church, but because it must be believed; nothing will “‘prove”’ 
that the scripture is divine, it must be believed to be divine. 
But there are, however, some natural or rational testimonies help- 
ing to establish the fact that scripture is divinely inspired; these 
considerations do not prove it, but they help to convince men. 
These are: the tradition of the Church, the testimony of other ages, 
consent of many men, the harmony of the prophets, the success 
Biblical teachings have enjoyed in the world, the constancy and ~ 
consistency of the doctrine, the inward light and excellency of the 
text. Hence, though the authority of scripture cannot be proved, 
and is basically a matter of faith, rational arguments may be 
used, for “grace is never planted but in a reasonable creature, 
and proves by the very seat which it hath taken up that the end 
it hath is to be spiritual eye-water, to make reason see what ‘by 
nature only it cannot,’ but never to blemish reason in that which 
it can, ‘comprehend.’ ”’ ! 

Now taking this argument just as it stands, any Puritan would 
gladly have subscribed to it. He might not stress the tradition 
of the Church quite so emphatically as Laud did among the ra- 
tional confirmations of the authority of scripture; but that scrip- 
ture was to be accepted by faith, and yet no violence to be done 
to reason, that reason actually proved the necessity for the faith 


1 More and Cross, Anglicanism, pp. 97-103. 


Introduction A2 


and endorsed it with almost infallibly convincing testimonies— 
this was the argument of the Puritan as well as of the bishop. 
But the Puritan then and there challenged the bishop to be as 
good as his word. If the bishop submitted to the Bible as God’s 
word, received it by faith and reinforced his faith with rational 
convictions—very well then, let him accept it and act accord- 
ingly. Let him not, once he has established its authority, then 
turn about and explain away a good part of it, invent reasons 
to prove that only some portions are God’s law, that the Bible 
is not binding in every point on which it speaks, but merely on 
some few. If the Bible declares God is three persons in one, let 
that be believed, said the Puritan; if the Bible says that wigs 
are an abomination unto the Lord, let that also be believed. 
And there the Anglican protested, and the fight commenced. 
For to him it seemed absurd to imagine that God, the sovereign 
of sovereigns, would take the time, would demean himself, to tell 
men whether or not they should wear wigs. He could not imagine 
that everything in the Bible, every incidental history, every minute 
circumstance, was intended by God to be universally and liter- 
ally binding on all men. God had inspired the book in order that 
the fundamental and comprehensive truths of religion might be 
set down; he had inspired individual men at particular times 
and places to write it, and they had written in their particular 
dialects and told a great many things that were of only tem- 
porary importance. The difference between the Anglican and the 
Puritan, then, was that the Puritan thought the Bible, the re- 
vealed word of God, was the word of God from one end to the 
other, a complete body of laws, an absolute code in everything 
it touched upon; the Anglican thought this a rigid, doctrinaire, 
and utterly unjustifiable extension of the authority of scripture. 
The Puritan held that the Bible was sufficiently plain and ex- 
plicit so that men with the proper learning, following the proper 
rules of deduction and interpretation, could establish its meaning 
and intention on every subject, not only in theology, but in 
ethics, costume, diplomacy, military tactics, inheritances, profits, 
marriages, and judicial procedure. The Anglican position, set 
forth supremely in Richard Hooker’s Of the Laws of Ecclesiastical 
Polity, was simply that the Bible is God’s revealed word only on 
the broad principles of the Christian religion, that in all minor 
matters, God has not intended to set up ironclad rules for men, 
but to leave them to the discretion of their reason, to the con- 


4A The Puritans 


siderations of circumstance and propriety, to the determinations 
of proportion and decency. In His providence, in His govern- 
ment of events, through the reason He has instilled in man, through 
the law which governs nature, God can and does teach men; in 
the Bible He is concerned only with those things which they could 
not otherwise learn from these sources. 


Let them with whom we have hitherto’ disputed consider well, 
how it can stand with reason to make the bare mandate of sacred 
Scripture the only rule of all good and evil in the actions of | 
mortal men. The testimonies of God are true, the testimonies of 
God are perfect, the testimonies of God are all sufficient unto 
that end for which they were given. Therefore accordingly we do 
receive them, we do not think that in them God hath omitted 
anything needful unto his purpose, and left his intent to be 
accomplished by our devisings.! 


If the Puritan contention were correct, that the Bible is the su- 
preme and absolute law, says the Anglican Hooker, then the law 
of nature and the law of reason would be effectually abrogated; 
they would become useless, because we would need to search 
scripture at every juncture and would never dare trust ourselves 
to decide anything on any other grounds. “In every action of 
common life to find out some sentence clearly and infallibly 
setting before our eyes what we ought to do, (seem we in Scrip- 
ture never so expert) would trouble us more than we are aware.” ? 
The Anglican was accusing the Puritan of narrow-minded lit- 
eralism, pointing out that if he had the effrontery to assume 
that his and only his interpretation of scripture was correct, and 
to set himself up as dictator to all other men on a host of points 
upon which God intended men to follow their own discretion, 
custom or political expediency, then the Puritan was guilty of 
arrogance and pride. ‘“‘This Disciplinarian humor,” said one 
bishop, “which will admit no latitude in religion, but makes 
each nicety a fundamental, and every private opinion an article 
of Faith.” 3 Another Anglican cleric said that to give men the 
power of saying what scripture does and does not mean makes 
them ‘“‘to be as much lawgivers to the Church by their uncon- 
trolable law-interpreting, as any Pope or enthusiast can or need 


1 Book II, chap. VIII, par. 5. 
2 Ibid., par. 6. 
3 More and Cross, Anglicanism, p. 80. 


Introduction 45 


pretend to be.” 1 The Puritan replied, in effect, that if the An- 
glican said that the Bible was the word of God, and then put 
aside anything in the Bible which he did not like by saying this 
or that particular law or precedent was peculiar to the historical 
circumstances and was not part of the eternal law of the Christian 
religion, then it was certainly the Anglican who was setting him- 
self up to be the lawgiver and the tyrant; he was perverting the 
law of God to his own purposes by sophistry and fine distinc- 
tions, he did not really believe in the Bible at all, he was playing 


fast and loose with it and was no better than a skeptic or an atheist. 


If the dispute had remained a merely academic one whether 
the authority of the Bible extended as far as the wearing or not 
wearing of wigs or hoop petticoats, New England would have 
remained somewhat longer in the possession of the Indians. But 
one of the most important discoveries made by the Puritan in 
his study of scripture was that it contained the perfect constitu- 
tion for the organization of the visible church.? The Anglican 
denied this, and Richard Hooker wrote his book on the ‘‘laws”’ 
of ecclesiastical polity to prove that there were many kinds of 
laws which men were to follow in different connections, and that 
in ecclesiastical government they were not to follow the Bible 
at all, because Christ had left the form of the church to be deter- 
mined by political considerations, by the particular traditions of 
each country, and by the principles of aesthetic judgment. Thus 
the argument involved very important elements in the state and 
society; conservatives, satisfied with things as they were, saw in 
Puritan radicalism a serious threat to the vested interests; those 
dissatisfied with the status quo welcomed for social as well as for 
religious reasons the Puritan condemnation of the episcopal hier- 
archy, with its wealth, its monopoly of advantages, and its al- 
liance with the Court and the aristocracy. Political passions and 
economic grievances increased the tension. In the 1640’s both 
sides appealed to the sword and the God of battles, but before 
the actual outbreak had come, when Charles I fed dismissed 
his parliament and was apparently launched upon an era of ab- 
solute rule by and with the aid of the bishops, a small band of 
particularly earnest Puritans, fearing that the divine church polity 
could never be established in England, secured a charter from the 
king giving them title to land in Massachusetts Bay. Rk: moved 


1 Tbid., p. 91. 
2 Pay Miller, Orthodoxy in Massachusetts (Cambridge, 1933), chap. II. 


Yr 


46 The Puritans — 


themselves and their families thither, in order that under a govern- 
ment of their own constituting, the form of church government 
ordained by Christ might be set up, and His faithful saints might 
worship him in the precise manner He had decreed. 

At this point certain doubts might justifiably arise in the mind 
of the reader concerning what has just been said about the Puritan 
emphasis upon reason and scholarship. If after all the Puritan 
erected the Bible into a hard and fast body of arbitrary law, 
then it might seem that the function of his reason must amount 
to the very inferior one of deducing concrete applications from 
a miscellaneous collection of arbitrary dicta, and his scholarship 
simply consist in the administration of a number of imposed 
statutes. Certainly, it was to this that Richard Hooker felt the 
role of the intellect would be reduced if the Puritan had his 
way, and the fact of the matter is that in many cases, in such 
unimaginative and pedantic Puritans as Cotton Mather, the 
solemn invocation of scriptural sanctions for decisions about the 
minutiae of daily life became nothing short of ludicrous. But 
Cotton Mather was a case for a psychiatrist in any event, and 
is not, fortunately, very representative of Puritanism as a whole, 
a fact which it is hoped these selections will make clear. The 
Puritan’s attitude toward the Bible was called fanatical by his 
opponents, but it was not the worship of the book in a naive or 
infatuated spirit. It was an acceptance of the Bible as revealed 
law from an absolute sovereign, but the law of that sovereign 
was not therefore erected against all reason, science, and natural 
wisdom. Puritanism was not, as we have said, “‘fundamentalism”’; 
its conflict with the Church of England was, on the purely in- 
tellectual side, a difference in definition concerning the spheres 
of reason and faith, and of their connection. 

As we attempt to ascertain the difference, we should remember 
that from now on it becomes increasingly difficult to speak of the 
Anglican argument as though one train of thought were common 
to all apologists for the Church of England, at that time or at 
any time since. The very freedom which Richard Hooker allowed 
to the reason and the intelligence made possible a variety of 
attitudes; Churchmen differed among themselves concerning how 
much or how little of the Bible was to be accounted the eternal 
law of God, or how much weight was to be given to the other sanc- 
tions of thought and conduct, whether more to the law or to reason 
or to the traditions of the Church. But if we take Hooker, and 


Introduction 47 


some one of his successors in the moderate and well-considered 
vein, Jeremy Taylor for instance, and look upon them as repre- 
sentative, simply because they avoided the extremes either of the 
“high-church” party of Laud, or of the “low-church” party of 
Ussher, we may safely compare them with the Puritans in order 
to define more precisely the exact nature of the Puritan thought. 

From the description we have already given of Richard Hooker’s 
volume, it becomes clear that he is stressing the multiformity of 
the revelation of God’s will. As though the divinity were a great 
light, a sun of illumination, various rays emanate in various di- 
rections, each of them a partial revelation of his character. One 
of these rays is the law of reason, one the law of nature, one the 
conception of beauty, one His daily providence; and among these 
rays another one, important indeed, but only one among the 
others, is the Bible. This is no doubt an over-simplified statement 
of Hooker’s very subtle position, but it will serve; it is the idea 
which, in one way or another, underlies almost all Anglican 
thinking in the seventeenth century, and it is the belief above all 
others that the Puritans could never swallow. 

In a portentous volume called Ductor Dubitantium,! a guide for 
troubled consciences in some 1400 pages, published by Jeremy 
Taylor in 1659, this liberal and eloquent clergyman, occupying 
the leisure forced upon him by the reign of Oliver Cromwell, 
deliberately devised for the Church of England a book of prac- 
tical divinity, a manual for the solution of ethical puzzles, be- 
cause, for one reason, the Puritans, with their direct application 
of Scripture to the affairs of ordinary life, had seemed far to excel 
the Anglican divines in casuistical writing.* Before entering into 
particular cases, Taylor endeavored to demonstrate how first 
of all men might ascertain the regulations to which their con- 
sciences should conform. The measure and rule should be, he 
says, the law of God, but the law of God is not promulgated 
merely and solely in the Bible; it is also to be found in the law 
of nature, in the articles to which all nations have consented, in 

1 Vols. IX and X of Works, under general editorship of Reginald Heber, edited by 
Alexander Taylor (London, 1851). 

_ 2 Taylor cites as his prédecessors in this sort of divinity the work of William Perkins, 
William Ames, and Johann Heinrich Alsted; Perkins and Ames were English Puritans, 
both much read in America; Ames was intimately associated with many of the found- 
ers of Massachusetts and the book to which Taylor refers, Ames’s De Conscientia, was the 
Puritan manual of casuistry throughout the seventeenth century. A comparison of this 


volume with Taylor’s will tell the whole story of the two types of minds. Alsted was a 
Calvinist professor at Herborn and at Weissemburg, the author of a great encyclopedia 


48 The Puritans 


right reason, in laws ecclesiastical and civil, in popular proverbs, 
and in the wisdom of great poets.1 The larger number of the 
rules which men are to obey, Taylor insists, come from these 
sources; the number to be derived from the Bible should be kept 
down to the bare minimum of those essential. truths which cannot 
be learned from the other instructors, and the validity of much 
of scripture, at least in morality, is actually that it expresses 
felicitously what the other texts already have taught. “The best 
portions of scripture, even the law of Jesus Christ, which in moral | 
things is the eternal law of nature, is written in our hearts, is 
reason, and that wisdom to which we cannot choose but assent.”’ 2 
The fundamental discriminations of right and wrong are such 
that all men must acknowledge them, “so long as a man is in 
his wits, and hath the natural use of reason.”’ + The natural man, 
unless he is insane or diseased, can and does grasp these funda- 
mentals;* most of his mistakes come in the application, where 
he is misled through ignorance or by evil customs. The way to 
correct him is not to bring down upon him the crushing weight 
of a pretended Biblical condemnation, but to discover the prov- 
ince in which his error lies, whether in reason or nature or civil 
law, and to put him to rights according to the legislation of that 
domain. “Every thing must be derived from its own fountain.” ° 

Against this method of instructing men’s consciences, Taylor 
continues, the Puritans protest because they say it puts reason 
before the Bible, and they offer instead to draw up a set of rules 
straight from the Bible to cover almost all moral problems. They 
say that we must not start with what is reasonable, and then 
find that the law of Christ is like unto it, but with the law of 
Christ, and then we must abide by it, whether it seems reason- 
able or not. This, says Taylor, is to make a separation between 
what is reasonable and what is revealed. ‘That such a discrepancy 
can even imaginably exist Taylor denies emphatically. He will 
admit that human reason is below God and cannot understand 
all that God is, but everything that God reveals to men must be 


of the arts and of a summa of cases of conscience (1628), standard works of reference 
in New England (Morison, Harvard College in the Seventéenth Century, p. 158). The 
Ductor Dubitantium, therefore, is doubly interesting for our purposes, since it was 
written to supply what Taylor thought were the deficiencies in works which were the 
received authority in New England. 

1 Ibid., IX, 13. 4 Ibid., pp. 29, 34. 

2 Ibid., p. 69. 5 Ibid., p. 60. 

3 Ibid., p. 41. 6 Ibid., pp. 67-68. 


I ntroduction 49 


comprehensible to the reason, for the reason of man must come 
from the same God who gives the revelation. “If reason cannot 
consent to it when it is told of it, then it is nothing, it hath no 
being, it hath no possibility.” 1 Therefore one cannot say of any 
proposition, it is against scripture and therefore against reason, 
“‘because reason is before revelation, and that this is revealed by 
God must be proved by reason’; but if we will define carefully 
and accurately what is reasonable, we are then empowered to 
assert that what is against reason must, ipse facto, be against the 
word of God. For, says Taylor in conclusion, 


when both sides agree that these are the words of God, and the 
question of faith is concerning the meaning of the words, nothing 
is an article of faith, or a part of religion, but what can be proved 
by reason to be the sense and intentions of God. Reason is never 
to be pretended against the clear sense of scripture, because by 
reason it is that we came to perceive that to be the clear sense of 
scripture.? 


Taylor’s argument is a permutation upon the theme announced 
by Richard Hooker. He is asserting the primacy of an eternal 
reason, which finds expression in nature, in the human intellect, 
experience, civil law, proverbs, and poetry; it also finds expres- 
sion in the Bible. In order that there may be no conflict between 
the Bible and other manifestations of the immutable wisdom, 
Biblical teachings must be held to a minimum, and those few 
entertained as much as possible not because the Bible says so, 
but because they are clearly consistent with what men learn from 
all the sources of knowledge available to them. 

If we now turn to the Puritan side of the debate, we shall find 
that Taylor’s opponents have one all-important consideration to 
advance against his seductive pleading. If men had remained as 
they had been created, if they had retained the pristine innocence 
of creation fresh from the hand of God, then everything that 
Taylor says would be true. But the fact of the matter is—and 
by “fact” the Puritan meant not only in Christian theology but 
in experience—something has happened to mankind. History 
proves, and daily events confirm, that men are not naturally 
noble, reasonable, honest, kind, decent, or intelligent. Taylor’s 
whole structure of moral instruction derived by the reasonable 


1 Ibid., p. 7%. 
2 Ibid., p. 74. 


50 The Puritans 


being from natural and reasonable preceptors leaves out of ac- 
count what John Cotton called “mans perverse subtilty in in- 
venting wayes of backsliding.”’ ! Let human beings go free amid 
nature, let them read the poets and memorize the proverbs, in- 
duce them to examine their hearts for an instinctive knowledge 
of right and wrong, teach them what the wise and good of all 
nations have agreed on, and what will be the result? The same 
old chronicle of meanness and cruelty, bloodshed and robbery, 
hatred and betrayal, blunder and stupidity, which passes under |, 
the name of history. From such sources some men, like Socrates 
or Plutarch, may learn virtue and self-control, but only on the 
_ basis of calculation; the vast majority are totally incapable of 
\ leading the life of reason if they have only reason to inspire them. 
No man who knows a hawk from a handsaw can doubt for a 
moment “the depravation of nature, in the blindnesse of our 
minds: who are so far from discerning spiritual things . . . that 
we cannot rightly judge of moral or civil things.” ? If men are 
to act by the laws of right reason and in harmony with the laws 
of nature, they need something more than a knowledge of the 
laws; they must be infused with a power to keep and observe 
them, and only the grace of God can give it to them. Thomas 
Shepard said that there is a sort of knowledge which some men 
have ‘‘from the book of creation, some by power of education, 
some by the light of the law . . . some by the letter of the gospel, 
and so men may know much and speak well... .’ But over 
against this there is quite another kind of knowledge which 
only the elect can acquire, whereby they “see things in another 
manner; to tell you how, they can not; it is the beginning of 
light in heaven.” ? The Puritan would not doubt that Taylor’s 
method was admirable and his book a tribute to his own nobility 
of character, but the facts of life being what they are, his way of 
dealing with sin simply will not work; make the truth as clear 
as he may to the mind of man, and man “will bend the Truth 
to his mind though hee breake it.” ‘Thomas Hooker of Con- 
necticut directly opposed Richard Hooker of Bishopshorne by 
insisting that the latter’s splendid galleon of stately reason will 
wreck itself upon the shoals of human perversity: 


1A Briefe Exposition with Practicall Observations upon The Whole Book of Ecclesiastes 
(London, 1654), p. 160. 

211d... p. 131: 

3 Works, ed. John A. Albro (Boston, 1853), II, 235. 


Introduction 51 


Though arguments be never so plaine, and Scriptures never so 
_ pregnant; yet a carnall wretch will carry himselfe against all, and 
say,\it is not my judgement, I am not of that mind.! 


The pon of mere right reason and behavior regulated by 
judicious analysis will not hold up very far or very long; it is 
not enough: 


There is a weakness, impotencie and insufficiencie in the under- 
standing to reach this right discovery of sin, for however there 
remaynes so much glimmering in the twilight of Natural-reason, 
and so much sensibleness in the stupid benummedness of the 
corrupt conscience of a carnal man, that it can both see and 
sensibly check for some grosser evil, or some such sins, or venom 
of sin, as crosseth his own peace and Comfort, or those ends 
which he sets up as the chiefest good at which he aymes, but to 
search into the entrales of sin, and discern the spiritual compo- 
sition of the accursed nature thereof, he can in no wise attayn this 
by all the labor and light he hath.? 


In the Puritan view, which the Puritan pointed out was un- 
deniably corroborated by the evidence of human affairs, men 
needed the aid of God to achieve what the innocent Jeremy 
Taylor naively assumed was their natural capacity. 

But, it should be noted, the Puritan does not deny that truth 
can be discovered in nature, poetry, right reason, and the con- 
sent of nations. He does not deny that these things are emana- 
tions of God’s wisdom and that from them men may gain all 
manner of valuable instruction. He does not doubt that there 
is a light of nature, which, he says, “consists in common prin- 
ciples imprinted upon the reasonable soul, by nature,” and that 
man naturally inclines his assent to certain fundamental truths, 
not only such truths as that the whole is greater than the part, 
but that there is a God, that parents are to be honored, and that, 
there is a great difference between what is good and what is bad. 
As we have seen, the whole methodology of Puritan logic, fol- 
lowing the example of Ramus, was built upon the inner monitor 
that can tell which of any two alternatives is the right one. ‘The 
discoveries of the natural reason are useful to men ‘‘as a help 
whence they might seek after God” and “‘for the preservation of 
humane society.”’ What the Puritan does insist on is that the 


1 Thomas Hooker, The Soules Humiliation (London, 1638), pp. 147-148. 
2 Thomas Hooker, The Application of Redemption, pp. 43-44. 


52 The Puritans 


natural man, if left to himself, will not read the lessons of nature 
and reason correctly. “The little hght that there is, is much mis- 
carried[;] whilest it is managed by the reigning influence of the 
power of darkness the Judgment is corrupt as well as the will, 
whose corruption perverts the exercise of the faculty of reason.” 
Therefore God must draw up for man in black and white an ex- 
haustive and authoritative code of laws, where he can find them 
in terms adapted to his imperfect and benighted state, in clear 
and unmistakable bold-faced type: | 


Star-light cannot make it, otherwise then night. The light of 
nature since the fall, compared with the light of the image of God, 
before the fall, hath not the proportion of Star-light, to the bright 
Sun-light at noon-day. This indeed is but darkness. But, if com- 
pared with the light of the Gospell, it is worse then gross darkness.? 


The laws of the Gospel, drawn up under these considerations, 
cannot be limited to a few fundamentals, but must be numerous 
enough to cover all the essential contingencies of life. Man was 
once left free to learn from reason and nature, and promptly 
abused the privilege; he must now submit his comprehension to 
the instituted law before he be allowed to seek meanings once 
more in the natural world. “‘Almost all the sin and misery that 
hath filled the World, hath broke in at this door, hearkning to 
reason against Institution.” ? The Biblical institution must fill 
the place man made empty through his own folly, and since he 
has thrown away his ability to profit from natural wisdom, he 
must have an explicit law imposed upon him. 

Thus when we pursue the difference between the attitude of 
the Anglican and the Puritan toward the authority of scripture, 
we come upon a deeper difference in their attitude toward man. 
The Puritan believes as much as his opponent that the will of 
God is exhibited in the world of nature and in the processes of 
right reason, but in order for man to perceive it, there must be 
something added to him. 


True it is that the Lord fills Heaven and Earth with his pres- 
ence, yea, the Heaven of Heavens is not able to contain him. 
His infinite Being is every where, and one and the same every 
where in regard of himself; because his being is most simple, and 


1 Norton, Heart of N-England Rent, pp. 12-13. 
2 Samuel Mather, A Testimony from the Scripture against Idolatry & Superstition (Cam- - 
bridge, 1670), p. 16. 


Introduction | 53 


not subject to any shadow of change, being all one with himself. 
Yet he is said to take up his abode in a special manner, when he 
doth put forth the peculiar expression of his Work.* 


There must be the spark, the quickening insight, the subtle and 
inward genius, which makes all the difference between the men 
who see and understand and know, and ordinary men who live 
from hand to mouth, never pierce below surface meanings, and 
never achieve self-mastery and direction. It is not merely ig- 
norance that condemns the run of mortals to their fate; the man 
of unenlightened learning is in the same fix: “Let a man live the 
life of reason, and so as that he can discourse never so wisely and 
judiciously, and that he can converse with all sorts of men, and 
transact businesses in great dexterity, yet it is but a dead life.” 2 
The spark, when it does come, is not the revelation of new and 
undreamed-of truths, it is not the discovery of any hitherto un- 
known facts. It is a reinvigoration of the inner man, it is in- 
spiration, ecstasy: “it leaves an impression upon the most inward 
motions of the soul, as they meet with God in the most retired 
and refined actions thereof.”’ 3 It is not merely a correct teaching 
of the mind or judgment, it is “‘a renewall of the whole soule of 
a man, the disposition and inclination of the whole must be 
changed and altered.’ * All the ideas, all the doctrines, all the 
reasons can be known before a man becomes regenerate, but 
known only with the mind, not with the heart. An unregenerate 
man, following the dictates of nature and cultivating the virtues 
celebrated in the poets, may perform many separate good actions, 
but these will not come “‘from an inward soul or principle of life,” 
just as, says Thomas Shepard in a metaphor characteristically 
Puritan in its middle-class homeliness: 

he that had beer given him, when milk and wine and sugar were 
put into it to mend it, said, the wine is good, and the milk is good, 
but the beer is bad; so profession, affection is good, but the heart, 
the man, is bad.5 


By the grace of God, the Puritan meant the insight which sees 
at last what has been before the eyes all along; as though one 
had listened many times to a piece of music which to his ears 


1'Thomas Hooker, The Application of Redemption, pp. 3-4. 

2 John Cotton, The way of Life (London, 1641), p. jor. 

3’'Thomas Hooker, A Comment upon Christ’s last Prayer In the Seventeenth of John (Lon- 
don, 1656), p. 88. 

* Cotton, Christ the Fountaine of Life, p. 98. 

> Works, II, 282-283. 


54 _ The Puritans 


was meaningless, and then suddenly its form becomes clear to 
him and for the first time he really hears it, not merely with his 
ears, but with his whole being. Regeneration is such a com- 
prehension of the world in a flash of vision, and it therefore ‘‘ex- 
ceeds, and over-flies the most Eagle-sighted Apprehensions of any 
Natural Man in the World.” ! Only those who have experienced 
it will be able to understand aright the law of nature or be able 
to guide the steps of reason. 

If the plight of man in the world is thus desperate, how absurd | 
to erect his reason into a yardstick for what must be true in the 
reason of God, how fantastic to assert that if human reason cannot 
conceive a thing, then the thing is nothing, “hath no possibility”! 
It is the most insidious form of arrogance to proclaim that what 
seems reasonable and just on earth, in time and space, must also 
be binding in infinity, outside the realm of time and space, on 
God, who dwells in regions undecipherable to our discourse. Un- 
doubtedly, the Puritans would answer Taylor’s ultimate point, 
God is reasonable and just, but not necessarily in our terms. If He 
accommodates Himself to our notions of what is equitable, it is 
His gracious condescension. The finite cannot legislate for in- 
finitude; our reason, though partaking of the divine nature, par- 
takes of it only in part, and is not sufficiently universal to warrant 
our saying that what is absurd to it cannot be part of faith. 
Reason is not before Revelation. We do not prove the authority 
of scripture by testing it with reasonable laws formulated before- 
hand; we find out first what scripture means by exegesis, ety- 
mology, comparison of texts, analysis of words, logical deductions 
and inferences. Our premises are not secured by approaching the 
Bible convinced beforehand that what is contrary to reason cannot 
be contained there, or that what is against the light of nature 
cannot possibly be intended, but the Bible itself gives us the 
premises of reason. The light of reason is ‘“‘an effect proceeding 
from the word.” 2 We do not test the Bible by nature, but nature 
by the Bible. It is in this sense that the Puritan achieved, or 
thought he had achieved, the unity of faith and intellect, dogma 
and reason. Reason is the implement for the interpretation of 
given principles, and grace is the implement for the direction 
of reason. But reason does not discover fundamental principles 
in itself. The regenerate intellect does not fetch up truth from 


1 Thomas Hooker, A Comment upon Christ's last Prayer, p. 443. 
2 Norton, Heart of N-England Rent, p. 13. 


Introduction | | er 


its own depths, like water from a well, but is filled with truth 
from the fountain of scripture. Thomas Hooker thus summarized 
the union of the three factors, scripture, reason, and grace, into 
the moment of supreme insight which was the goal of all Puritan 
aspiration and the inspiration for all Puritan theory: 


The godly doe not onely apprehend the meaning of the words 
in the Scripture, and are able to discourse of the reasons therein 
contained, but they discern also the spiritualnesse of the work of 
grace, that is discovered in the same. Observe it: There being, 
first, the Word of God set down in his book, and then reasons that 
goe along with it, and lastly, a spirituall work of grace, that God 
hath made known in those reasons; the Saints of God alone see 
the spiritualnesse of the work that is manifested and communi- 
cated in that reason there set down . . . ‘Take but an Apple, there 
is never a man under heaven can tell what tast it is of, whether 
sweet or soure, untill he have tasted of it; he seeth the colour and 
the quantity of it, but knoweth not the tast.1 


Therefore Jeremy Taylor speaks from a purely external and 
formal knowledge when he says that we are to prove by reason 
whether any proposition is revealed by God. Reasons are there 
indeed, good reasons and bad reasons; the saints of God under- 
stand the right reasons and why they are right, exactly as a man 
knows the taste of an apple. The certitude is neither irrational 
conviction nor mere rational demonstration, but both at once. 
Jeremy Taylor is arguing that a body of truth exists, of which 
the Bible is one expression. The Puritan is arguing that the source 
of truth is the Bible, read with the eye of grace, and therefore 
rationally understood. Reason does not prove the sense and in- 
tention of God, as Taylor says, but the sense and intention of 
God instruct the reason. For the Puritan, reason does not make 
clear the sense of scripture, but the clear sense of scripture creates 
the reason. 


5. Estimations 


The Puritan attitude toward the Bible, to the extent that it was 
a preservation of intellectual values within the dogmatism, may 
elicit our hearty approbation. But when we come to the content 
of the dogma, to what the Puritan insisted the Bible did teach, 
and to what he expected the regenerate man to find reasonable, 


1“Culpable Ignorance, or the Danger of Ignorance under Meanes,” pp. 189- 
216 in The Saints Dignitie (London, 1651), pp. 208-209. 


56 The Puritans 


in short, when we come to Puritan theology, many persons 
encounter an insuperable stumbling block to an unqualified 
approval of Puritan thinking. Not only does the conventional 
picture of the Puritan creed seem exceedingly unattractive to 
twentieth-century taste, but the idea of theology in any form is 
almost equally objectionable. In most secondary accounts Puri- 
tans are called Calvinists, and then and there discussion of their 
intellectual life ceases. Dr. Holmes’s ‘“One-Hoss Shay”’ is deemed 
a sufficient description. 

It is true, the Puritans were Calvinists, if we mean that they 
more or less agreed with the great theologian of Geneva. They 
held, that is, that men had fallen into a state of sin, that in order 
to be saved they must receive from God a special infusion of grace, 
that God gives the grace to some and not to others out of His own 
sovereign pleasure, and that therefore from the beginning of time 
certain souls were ‘“‘predestined” to heaven and the others 
sentenced to damnation. But if the New Englanders were Cal- 
vinists, it was because they happened to agree with Calvin; 
they approved his doctrine not because he taught it, but because 
it seemed inescapably indicated when they studied scripture or 
observed the actions of men. The sinfulness of the average man 
was a fact that could be empirically verified, and in itself demon- 
strated that he needed divine grace in order to be lifted above 
himself; the men who did receive what they thought was an 
influx of grace learned by experience that only in such an ecstasy 
of illumination did truth become thoroughly evident and com- 
pletely understandable. Obviously the experience was given to 
relatively few men; therefore God, who is outside time and who 
is omniscient, must have known from the beginning of time who 
would and who would not achieve it. This is the law of life; some 
men are born rich and some poor, some intelligent and some 
stupid, some are lucky and others unfortunate, some are happy 
and some melancholy, some are saved and some are not. There 
is no reason but that God so ordained it. 


The Lord to shew the soveraign freedom of his pleasure, that 
he may do with his own what he wil, and yet do wrong to none, 
he denyes pardon and acceptance to those who seek it with some 
importunity and earnestness... and yet bestowes mercy and 
makes known himself unto some who never sought him.* 


1 Thomas Hooker, The Application of Redemption, p. 299. 


| Introduction 57 


Puritan theology, therefore, is simply a statement in dogmatic 
guise of a philosophy of life, wherein it is held on the.one-hand 
that.men must_act by reason.and abide. by-justice,-and-strive-for 
an inward communication with the force that controls the.world, 
but on the other hand that they must not expect that force always 
to be cribbed and confined by their conceptions of what is reason- 
able and just. There is an eternal obligation upon men to be 
equitable, fair, and good, but who can say that any such morality 
is also binding on the universe? There are certain amenities which 
men must observe in their dealings with men, but who can say 
that they must also be respected by the tiger, by the raging storm, 
by the lightning, or by the cancer? It is only when the theology 
of “predestination” is seen in these less technical terms that its 
vitality as a living faith and its strength as a pearne philosophy 
become comprehensible. 

But the theology of New England was not simply Calvinism, 
it was not a mere reduplication of the dogmas of the Jnstztutes. 
What New Englanders believed was an outgrowth, as we have 
seen, of their background, which was humanistic and English, 
and it was conditioned by their particular controversy with the 
Church of England. Simon-pure Calvinism is a much more dog- 
matic, anti-rational creed than that of the Congregational par- 
sons in Massachusetts. The emigrants went to New England to 
prove that a state and a church erected on the principles for 
which they were agitating in England would be blessed by God 
and prosper. The source of the New England ideology is not 
Calvin, but England, or more See raa the Bible as it was read 
in England, not in Geneva. 

Though, of course, the controversy in England was a political, 
social, and economic one, it was also the intellectual dispute we 
have ined We might summarize it at this point by saying 
that in order to harmonize reason and scripture, the Anglican 
endeavored to reduce the doctrines imposed by scripture to the 
barest minimum; the Puritan extended scripture to cover the 
whole of existence and then set himself to prove the content of 
all scripture essentially reasonable..Only with this definition of 
origins and tendencies in mind can we read Puritan theology 
aright. In order to demonstrate that the content of scripture was 
comprehensible to reason, the Puritan theorists worked out a 
substantial addition to the theology of Calvinism which in New 
England was quite as important as the original doctrine. This ad- 


53 The Puritans 


dition or elaboration of the Calvinist doctrine is generally called 
the “Covenant Theology,” or the “‘Federal Theology.’’ There is 
no necessity here for examining it in detail.! It was a special way 
of reading scripture so that the books assembled in the Bible 
could all be seen to make sense in the same way. The doctrine 
held that after the fall of man, God voluntarily condescended to 
treat with man as with an equal.and to draw up a covenant or 
contract with His creature in which He laid down the terms and 
conditions of salvation, and pledged Himself to abide by them. 
The covenant did not alter the fact that those only are_saved 
upon whom God sheds His grace, but it made very clear and 
reasonable how and why,certain men are selected, and prescribed 
the conditions under which they might reach a fair assurance of 
their own standing. Above all, in the covenant God pledged Him- 
self not to run athwart human conceptions of right and justice; 
God was represented while entering the compact as agreeing to 
abide by certain human ideas. Not in all respects, not always, 
but in the main. I have said that any Puritan would have sub- 
scribed to Laud’s argument concerning the authority of scripture; 
it is now necessary to add that if called upon to discuss the ques- 
tion himself, the Puritan would not go about it in the same way. 
He would not make a distinction between testimonies brought 
in from another realm of experience besides faith, between ra- 
tional confirmations and the act of belief, but he would begin 
with scripture itself, the object of faith and the measure of reason. 
His principal argument for the satisfaction of the reason would 
be that once the Bible is believed by faith, it appears wholly 
and beautifully rational; it contains a consistent doctrine, that of 
the covenant, which makes it at once the source of belief and 
the fountain of reason. 

To find equivalents in modern terms for the ideas we have 
been discussing 1s well-nigh impossible. To translate seventeenth- 
century issues into twentieth-century phrases, when they cannot 
possibly mean the same things, is to forego any accurate under- 
standing of them. The results of modern historical investigation 
and textual criticism have made fantastic, even for those who 
believe the scripture to be the word of God, acceptance of it in 
anything like the spirit of the seventeenth century. But if we 
cannot find a common denominator for equating the ideas of the 


1 Cf. Perry Miller, ‘““The Marrow of Puritan Divinity,” Publications of the Colonial 
Society of Massachusetts, XXXII, 247-300. 


Introduction 50 


Puritans with ideas of today, we may possibly get at them by 
understanding the temperament, the mood, the psychology that 
underlay the theories. If Puritanism as a creed has crumbled, 
it can be of only antiquarian significance to us, but if Puritanism 
is also a state.of mind, it may be something closer home. 

There is probably no admirer of Puritanism so blindly de- 
voted that he will not find the Anglican apologists in some 
respects much more attractive. The richness of their culture, 
the catholicity of their taste, the calmness of their temper, the 
well-controlled judgment, the mellow piety, and above all the 
poetry of Richard Hooker and Jeremy Taylor are qualities which 
unhappily are not too conspicuous in the pages reprinted in this 
volume. There is an air about these men of breadth and wisdom, 
they do. not labor under terrific and incessant pressure, they are 
not always taut under the critical scrutiny of an implacable task- 
master. Simple humanity cries at last for some relief from the 
interminable high seriousness_of thePuritan-code, the eternal 
strenuousness of self-analysis, and the never-ending search of con- 
science. Though it is a great mistake to think the Puritans could 
not forget their theology and enjoy themselves, and though Na- 
thaniel Ward proves that they could possess a rollicking sense of 
humor, the general impression conveyed by Puritan writing is 
that of men who lived far too uninterruptedly upon the heights 
of intensity. Perhaps the most damning feature of their intensity 
was that it could become, over a period of time, as conventional 
and as stereotyped as worldliness itself. Thomas Shepard, telling 
the story of his conversion (pp. 471-472), has a vivid and living 
sense of the eternal presence of God, but Samuel Sewall, moraliz- 
ing over God’s grace while feeding his chickens (p. 511), is at 
best quaintly amusing, and when he bears down with the authority 
of scripture on the question of wigs he becomes tiresome, as 
Madam Winthrop undoubtedly felt, (p. 526). There was almost 
‘always an element of narrowness, harshness, and literal-minded- 
ness associated with Puritanism, enough to justify some of the 
criticisms of the bishops and some of the condemnations that have 
been made on the Puritan spirit in more recent times. 

The strength of Puritanism was its realism. If we may borrow 
William James’s frequently misleading division of the human race 
into the two types of the “tough-minded” and the “‘tender- 
minded,” and apply it with caution, it may serve our purposes. 
Though there were undoubtedly men in the Church of England, 


60 The Puritans 


such as John Donne, whom we would have to describe as “tough,” 
and a number of Puritans who would fit the description of 
“tender,” yet in the main Anglicans such as Hooker and Taylor 
are quite clearly on the side of the more tender-minded, while 
the Puritan mind was one of the toughest the world has ever 
had to deal with. It is impossible to conceive of a disillusioned 
Puritan; no matter what misfortune befell him, no matter how 
often or how tragically his fellowmen failed him, he would have 
~ been prepared for the worst, and would have expected no better. 
At the same time, there was nothing of the fatalist about him; 
as so often happens in the history of thought, the believers in a 
supreme determining power were the most energetic of soldiers 
and crusaders. The charge of Cromwell’s Ironsides was, on that 
particular score, proof positive of the superiority of the Puritan 
over the Anglican, and the Indians of New England learned to 
their very great sorrow how vehement could be the onset of troops 
who fought for a predestined victory. There was nothing luke- 
warm, halfhearted, or flabby about the Puritan; whatever he did, 
he did with zest and gusto. In that sense we might say that though 
his life was full of anguish of spirit, he nevertheless enjoyed it 
hugely. Existence for him was completely dramatic, every minute 
was charged with meaning. And when we come to an end of this 
roll call of characteristics, the one which yet remains the most 
difficult to evoke was his peculiar balance of zeal and enthusiasm 
with control and wariness. In his inner life he was overwhelmingly 
preoccupied with achieving a union with the divine; in his ex- 
ternal life he was predominantly concerned with self-restraint. 
Compare, for example, these two passages from ‘Thomas Hooker: 
the first in the vein of subjective rapture: 


So, I would have you do, loose your selves, and all ordinances, 
and creatures, and all that you have, and do, in the Lord Christ. 
How is that? Let all bee swallowed up, and let nothing be seene’ 
but a Christ . . . As it is with the Moone and Starres, when the 
Sunne comes, they loose all their light, though they are there in the 
heavens still; and as it is with rivers, they all goe into the Sea, 
and are all swallowed up of the Sea: and yet there is nothing seene 
but the Sea . . . So let it bee with thy Soule, when thou wouldest 
finde mercy and grace.! 


And then this admonition: 


1 The Soules Humiliation, p. 77. 


Introduction — 61 


I know there is wilde love and joy enough in the world, as there 
is wilde Thyme and other herbes, but we would have garden love 
and garden joy, of Gods owne planting. 


No wonder the Puritan has been something of a puzzlement and 
a trial to the Gentiles. He was a visionary who never forgot that 
two plus two equals four; he was a soldier of Jehovah who never 
came out on the losing side of.a bargain. He was a radical and 
a revolutionary, but not an anarchist; when he got into power 
he ruled with an iron hand, and also according to a fundamental 
law. He was a practical idealist with a strong dash of cynicism; 
he came to New England to found the perfect society and the 
kingdom of the elect—and never expected it to be perfect, but 
only the best that fallible men could make. His creed was the 
revealed word of God and his life was the rule of moderation; 
his beliefs were handed down from on high and his conduct was 
regulated by expediency. He was a doctrinaire and an oppor- 
tunist. Truth for him had been written down once and for all 
in a definitive, immutable, complete volume, and the covers 
closed to any further additions; thereupon he devoted all the 
energies he could spare from more immediate tasks to scholar- 
ship and interpretation. He lived in the world according to the 
principles that must govern this world, with an ever-present sense 
that they were only for the time being and that his true home 
was elsewhere. ““There is,”’ said John Cotton, “another combina- 
tion of vertues strangely mixed in every lively holy Christian, 
And that is, Diligence in worldly businesses, and yet deadnesse 
to the world; such a mystery as none can read, but they that 
know it.” The Puritan ideal was the man who could take all 
opportunities, lose no occasions, ‘‘and bestir himselfe for profit,” 
and at the same time “bee a man dead-hearted to the world.” 
He might wrest New England from the Indians, trade in the 
seven seas, and speculate in lands; “‘yet his heart is not set upon 
these things, he can tell what to doe with his estate when he 
hath got it.” 2 

The most serious of charges laid against the Puritans has been 
their supposed deficiency in aesthetic perceptions. Because they 
did not want men to fix their veneration upon worldly things, 
they had no use for sculpture, distrusted the arts when they were 
prized merely for their sensuous appeal, were contemptuous of 


1 The Soules Implantation (London, 1637), p. 158. 
2 Christ the Fountaine of Life, pp. 119-120. 


62 The Puritans 


the beautiful ritual and ornamentation of the Church of England. 
The poet George Herbert, defending the habiliment of his church 
against what he thought the trappings of the Church of Rome, 
found the plainness of Puritan worship going much too far in the 
other direction: 


She in the valley is so shie 
Of dressing that her hair doth lie 
About her eares; | 
While she avoids her neighbour’s pride, 
She wholly goes on th’other side, 
And nothing wears.! 


The New Model Army has incurred infamy with posterity for 
hacking to pieces the furnishings of cathedrals. But the asperity of 
the Puritan discipline and the Puritan distrust of merely sensuous 
beauty did not mean that the Puritan was without an aesthetic 
of his own, or that he was hostile to beauty. John Preston de- 
fined beauty in characteristic Puritan fashion: “Beauty that con-, 
sists in a conformity of all the parts’; ? Thomas Hooker said 
that sin “‘defaceth the beautiful frame, and that sweet correspond- 
ence and orderly usefulness the Lord first implanted in the order 
of things.” > The Puritan conceived of beauty as order, the order 
of things as they are, not as they appear, as they are in pure and 
abstract conception, as they are in the mind of God. He spoke 
of his church polity, his bare, crude churches, without altars or 
choirs, foursquare and’ solid, as lovely; they were so'to him be- 
cause they incarnated the beauty of the one polity Christ had 
ordained. His conception of the beautiful was, like Plato’s, the 
efficient order of things; in that sense, he held indeed that beauty 
is truth, and truth beauty, though he did not think that was quite 
all he needed to know in life. 

When the historian thus attempts to consider Puritanism in 
all its ramifications, he finds himself at the end hesitating to de- 
liver judgment upon it, or to be wholly satisfied that it has passed 
into the limbo of anthologies. Certainly we can look upon the 
disappearance of some features with no regrets, and only deplore 
some others where they still survive. We have had enough of 
the Puritan censoriousness, its tendency to make every man his 
brother’s keeper. When the Puritan habit of probing into the soul 

1 Works, ed. George Herbert Palmer (New York, 1905), III, 103. 


2 The New Creature (London, 1633), p. 52. 
3 The' Application of Redemption, p. 59. 


Introduction 63 


has degenerated into the “New England conscience’”—where it 
is apt to remain as a mere feeling that everything enjoyable is 
sinful—then the ridicule heaped upon Puritan inhibitions be- 
comes a welcome antidote. Certainly many amenities of social 
life have increased in New England, and in America, in direct 
proportion as Puritanism has receded. But while we congratulate 
ourselves upon these ameliorations, we cannot resist a slight fear 
that much of what has taken the place of Puritanism in our 
philosophies is just so much failure of nerve. The successors of 
Puritanism, both the evangelicals and the rationalists, as we sur- 
vey them today, seem to have been comparatively sentimental, 
to have lacked a stomach for reality. The optimism and cheer- 
fulness to which the revolters against Puritanism turned now 
threaten to become rather a snare and.a delusion than a libera- 
tion. “‘Science’’ tells us of a world of stark determinism, in which 
heredity and environmental conditioning usurp the function of 
the Puritan God in predestining men to ineluctable fates. It is, 
indeed, true that the sense of things being ordered by blind forces 
presents a different series of problems than does the conception 
of determination by a divine being; no matter how unintelligible . 
the world might seem to the Puritan, he never lost confidence 
that ultimately it was directed by an intelligence. Yet even with 
this momentous difference in our imagination of the controlling 
power, the human problem today has more in common with the 
Puritan understanding of it than at any time for two centuries: 
how can man live by the lights of humanity in a universe that 
appears indifferent or even hostile to them? We are terribly aware 
once more, thanks to the revelation of psychologists and the 
events of recent political history, that men are not perfect or 
essentially good. The Puritan description of them, we have been 
reluctantly compelled to admit, is closer to what we have wit- 
nessed than the description given in Jeffersonian democracy or 
in transcendentalism. The Puritan accounted for these qualities 
by the theory of original sin; he took the story of the fall of man 
in the Garden of Eden for a scientific, historical explanation of 
these observable facts. The value of his literature today cannot 
lie for us in his explanation; if there is any, it must rest in the 
accuracy of his observations. 


64 The Puritans 


Il. Tse Purirans as LITERARY ARTISTS 


The tenets of Puritan faith obstructed any clear formulation 
of general aesthetic theory. Puritans saw images of divine things 
in the world about them, and drew analogies between the beautiful 
objects and the perfect archetype which they conceived as exist- 
ing in the mind of God. William Hubbard spoke thus: 


In a curious piece of Architecture, that which first offers it self 
to the view of the beholder, is the beauty of the structure, the 
proportion that one piece bears to another, wherein the skill of 
the Architect most shews it self. But that which is most Admirable 
in sensitive and rational beings, is that inward principle, seated 
in some one part, able to guid[e] the whole, and influence all the 
rest of the parts, with an apt and regular motion, for their mutual 
good and safety.* 


The emphasis is theological. Hubbard has in mind the “remains 
of God’s Image’’—that is, the remnant of the regulative power 
which God had originally created in perfection in the human 
understanding by which the will is informed and directed, and 
the passions balanced and utilized. Beauty is the order and har- 
mony which God established, and art is useful only so far as the 
exercise of it may shape man’s spirit to a better understanding 
of the divine purpose. Reason and emotion were given man to 
perceive the end for which God created the world, and if properly 
controlled they lead to the highest virtue. In such a scheme beauty 
is postulated as reason and faith conjoined; therefore to single out 
music, statuary, painting, drama, and the dance as subjects for 
considered appraisal,—to assign to such purely sensuous phe- 
nomena more than a negligible rank in the teleological scheme, 
would have been grossly unbefitting. 

Yet within the duly proportioned framework the spoken and 
written word deserved considered analysis, for ““The Wise Man 
saith, Words in season are as Apples of Gold in Pictures of Silver, 
or fitness of words (well tuning them) is the grace of them, and 
puts wheels to the Chariots to carry them to the mind... .”? 
Nicholas Noyes gave a further clue to the Puritan approach: 


1 The Happiness of a People, p. 11. 

2 William Hubbard, The Benefits Of a Well-Ordered Conversation (Boston, 1684), begin- 
ning of preface. Samuel Willard’s A Compleat Body of Divinity (Boston, 1726) is a 
compendium of orthodox Puritan theology as he had preached it in the 1680’s and 
16g0’s. On pp. 27-33 he gives attention to the service of rhetoric in preaching. | 


Introduction 65 


Nor thine, nor thy Books credit, would I raise, 

Within the gates thine own works thee shall praise 

Or suffer for ’t: For good Books now adayes e 
Like virtue practice need, but no man’s praise.! 


Noyes’s point of view is typical of Puritan critical theory in that 
he does not seek to glorify literature or proclaim its laws, but , 
rather to emphasize the fitness of a “‘plain style’? which had been ~~ 
the badge of Puritan writers for a century. Even before New Eng- 
land was founded, the Puritans had advocated a prose, simple, 
clear, and restrained; fit to satisfy the reason, not charm the fancy; 
to instruct, not rouse the passions. “‘Painful’’ Perkins, fellow of 
Christ College, Cambridge, was a Puritan whose evangelical fervor 
made him one of the most influential leaders of New England 
thought. He had written, in a manual of sermonizing that was the 
recognized authority in New England, that “‘the Minister may, yea 
and must privately use at his libertie the arts, Philosophy, and 
variety of reading, whilest he is in framing his sermon: but he 
ought in publike to conceale all these from the people... .” ? 
Thomas Hooker warned such of his readers as might find the 
manner of his discourse ‘‘too Logical, or Scholasticall, in regard of 
the terms” he used: 


That plainesse and perspicuity, both for matter and manner of 
expression, are the things, that I have conscientiously indeavoured 
in the whole debate: for I have ever thought writings that come 
abroad, they are not to dazle, but direct the apprehension of the 
meanest, and I have accounted it the chiefest part of Judicious 
learning, to make a hard point easy and familiar in explication.’ 


Although Puritans cultivated a studied simplicity, we would 
stray quite from the truth if we imagined they countenanced 
prose that was flat and awkward. The audience helped to pre- 
vent a minister from neglecting good form, for the Puritan listener 
“esteemed that preaching best wherein was most of God, least 
of man, when vain flourishes of wit, and words were declined . . . 
yet could he distinguish between studied plainness, & negli- 
gent rudeness. .. .* There were several motives which led the 

1 Ibid., commendatory verses, sig. A 2% and A 3. 

2 William Perkins, The Art of Prophecying (Works, 1631), II, 670. 

3A Survey of the Summe of Church-Discipline (London, 1648), preface, sig. b. 


4 John Geree, The Character of an old English Puritan, Or Non Conformist (London, 
1646), p. 2. 


66 The Puritans 


Puritans to develop an intentional style—one which, though plain, 
was reached by conscious purpose. heir ministers were not so dull 
as to think that careless oratory or illogical analysis would hold the 
respect of an educated laity, nor did they intend that the unedu- 
cated among their people should be allowed to respect a slipshod 
utterance. They wrote voluminously and with high dedication; the 
art of writing well therefore was assiduously cultivated that both 
the intellect and the emotions might be stirred to the fullest re- 
sponse. One of the greatest preachers in the first quarter of the 
century, Richard Sibbes, whose works were widely read in New 
England, enunciated one part of the Puritan theory of style in 
writing the preface for a fellow Puritan’s book: 


But because the way to come to the heart is often to pass through 
the fancy, therefore this godly man studied by lively representa- 
tions to help men’s faith by the fancy. It was our Saviour Christ’s 
manner of teaching to express heavenly things in an earthly 
manner; and it was the study of the wise man, Solomon, becoming 
a preacher, to find out pleasant words, or words of delight.* 


Sibbes here reveals that the source for much that 1s actually 
dramatic in Puritan writing was the Bible,—the model which 
justified an indulgence in rhetorical flourishes even though plain- 
ness and perspicuity were being exalted at the expense of form 
and finish. 

However, had the Puritan style derived entirely from Biblical 
models, it would have lacked the hard-driving logic, the ana- 
lytical and reasoned exposition, the close-knit structure which are 
its distinguishing characteristics. William Ames’s textbook of 
theology was the standard work used at Harvard and Yale down 
to the middle of the eighteenth century; Ames defended the plain 
style, speaking both as logician and preacher, and his example 
influenced every sermon delivered in New England: 


The drinesse of the style, and harshnesse of some words will be 
much blamed by the same persons [as those who object to the 
logical structure]. But I doe profer to exercise my selfe in that 
heresie, that when it is my purpose to Teach, I thinke I should 
not say that in two words which may be said in one, and that that 
key is to be chosen which doth open best, although it be of wood, 
if there be not a golden key of the same efficacy.’ 


1 Complete Works, ed. Alexander B. Grosart (Edinburgh, 1862), I, ci. 
2 The Marrow of Sacred Divinity (London, 1643), sig. A 4%. 


=, 


an eas 


Introduction | 67 


But economy of words was not to mean ineffective delivery; the 
plain style was not intended to become a dull style. As Ames 
instructed his students on another page: 


Men are to be pricked to the quick, that they may feele in 
every one of them that the Apostle saith, namely that the Word 
of the Lord is a two edged sword, that peirceth into the inward 
thoughts and affections, and goeth through unto the joyning to- 
gether of the bones and marrow. Preaching therefore ought not 
to be dead, but lively and effectuall, so that an unbeliever coming 
into the Congregation of the faithfull he ought to be affected, 
and as it were digged through with the very hearing of the Word, 
that he may give glory to God.! 


It is not fair to judge Puritan prose on the basis of the pamphlet 
wars engaged in by the Marprelates, or by William Prynne or 
John Milton, wherein too frequently the attacks are violent, the 
issue trivial, and the language harsh and coarse. The Puritans 
left to posterity a full harvest of sermons and tracts, histories, 
biographies, and journals. If much appears disproportionately 
argued or exhaustively analyzed, we have the writers’ expressed 
purpose to “‘direct the apprehension of the meanest.” ‘The Puri- 
tan ideal might be phrased roughly in this fashion: enough rhetoric 
to pass through the fancy to the heart, but never so much that 
the apprehension of the simple or the earnest should be dazzled. 
Thomas Hooker pointed to the evil consequences that followed 
upon a too ornate sermon style: 


I have sometime admired at this: why a company of Gentlemen, 
yeomen and poore women, that are scarcely able to know their 
A. B. C. yet they have a Minister to speake Latine, Greeke, and 
Hebrew, and to use the Fathers, when it is certain, they know 
nothing at all. ‘The reason is, because all this stings not, they may 
sit and sleepe in their sinnes, and goe to hell hoodwinckt, never 
awakened.’ 


Many features of Puritan writing, which from a purely literary 
point of view might seem to be faults, were deliberately culti- 
vated in order to achieve greater clarity or more certain effec- 
tiveness with the particular audience addressed. No doubt, too, 
occasional carelessness of structure in Puritan tracts can be charged 
to the insatiable demand for theological discussion, which some- 
times betrayed a Puritan minister into offering his wares before 


1 Ibid., p. 159. 
* The Soules Preparation (London, 1632), p. 66, 


68 The Puritans 


he gave them adequate trimming. Certain sterile characteristics 
are common to Anglican literature as well: the pedantry of 
learned quotation, and the unrelieved syllogistic method. In man- 
ner also there are many similarities between Anglican and Puritan 
style. To the extent that any writer of the second quarter of the 
seventeenth century was heir to Elizabethan word-consciousness, 
to the flavor of the Geneva Bible—the most popular version for 
a hundred years—he inherited a love of figure and ornament which 
the King James version itself drew upon. 

But there are well marked differences. ‘The Anglican love of 
solemn ritual, of tradition and hierarchy is often reflected in a 
suavity of diction which the Puritans scorned. Furthermore, the 
Anglicans did not share the Puritans’ veneration for the Bible as 
the sole approach to the spiritual life; therefore they drew more 
consciously upon their classical culture and wide reading to en- 
rich their style and vary their rhetorical effects. Anglican sermons 
less often attempt to convince the reason by clear logic and co- 
herent summary than to stir the imagination. In constructing 
their sentences, modeled upon Latin, they strove for the har- 
mony of Ciceronian periods—a rhetorical effect which Puritans 
looked upon as ‘‘more sauce than meat.” “I professe it is beyond 
my care to please the nicenesse of mens palates, with any quaint- 
nesse of language,”’ Thomas Hooker remarks, adding: “It was a 
cavill cast upon Hierom that in his writings he was Crcerontanus 
_ non Christianus.’’ + Anglicans unlike Puritans, made use of orna- 
’ ment for its own sake; they elaborated metaphors and illustra- 
tions for the purpose of enriching their prose. Let these selections, 
taken at random from the works of three great Anglican preachers, 
serve to illustrate the point: ? 


And it falls out very often, that some one Father, of Strong 
reputation and authority in his time, doth snatch and swallow 
some probable interpretation of Scripture: and then digesting it 
into his Homilies, and applying it in dehortations, and encourage- 
ments, as the occasions and diseases of his Auditory, or his age 
require, and imagining thereupon delightfull and figurative in- 
sinuations, and setting it to the Musique of his style, (as every man 


14 Survey of the Summe, sig. 4%. Hooker refers to Erasmus’s Life of St. Jerome 
included in the Complete Works of the church father (g vols., Basel, 1516-1520). 

2 The first is John Donne, Biathanatos [ca. 1610] (London, 1646), p. 206; the second, 
Lancelot Andrewes, “‘Sermons of the Resurrection,” delivered Easter Sunday, April 
13, 1623, in Winety-Six Sermons (Anglo-Catholic Library, 5 vols., Oxford, 1841-1843), 
III, 75, 76; the third, Jeremy Taylor, The Golden Grove (London, 1656), pp. 24, 25. 


Introduction 69 


which is accustomed to these Meditations, shall often finde in 
himselfe such a spirituall wontonnesse, and devout straying into 
such delicacies,) that sense which was but probable, growes 
necessary, and those who succeed had rather enjoy his wit, then 
vexe their owne; as often times we are loath to change or leave off 
a counterfeit stone, by reason of the well setting thereof. 

By this meanes, I thinke, it became so generally to be beleeved, 
that the fruit which Eve eat was an Apple; And that Lots wife was 
turned to a pillar of Salt; And that Absalon was hanged by the 
haire of the head; And that lephthe killed his Daughter; And many 
other such, which grew currant, not from an evidence in the Text, 
but because such an acceptation, was most usefull, and applyable. 
Of this number, Judas case might be. 


You see how Christs garments came to be “red.’’ Of the wine- 
press that made them so we have spoken, but not of the colour 
itself. A word of that too. It was His colour at His Passion. They 
put Him in purple; then it was His weed itself, and so He made it 
more with the dye of His own blood. And the same colour He is 
now in again at His rising. Not with His own now, but with the 
blood of the wounded Edomites, whom treading under His feet, 
their blood bestained Him and His apparel. So one and the same 
colour at both; dying and rising in red; but with difference as 
much as is between His own as His enemies’ blood .. . 

The tincture, I say, first of our sin original, dyed in the wool; 
and then again of our sins actual, dyed in the cloth too. Twice 
dyed; so was Christ twice . . . So was it meet for crimson sinners 
to have a crimson Saviour; a Saviour of such a colour it behoved 
us to have... Yea, He died and rose again both in our colours, 
that we might die and rise too in His. We fall now again upon the 
same point in the colours we did before in the cups. He to drink 
the sour vinegar of our wild grapes, that we might drink His sweet 
in the cup of blessing. O cup of blessing, may we say of this cup! O 
stolam formosam, of that colour! Illi gloriosam, nobis fructuosam; 
‘glorious to Him, no less fruitful to us.’ He in Mount Golgotha like 
to us, that we in Mount Tabor like to Him. This is the substance 
of our rejoicing in this colour. 


Jesus Christ being taken by the Rulers of the Jews, bound and 
derided, buffeted and spit upon, accused weakly and persecuted 
violently; at last, wanting matter and pretences to condemn him, 
they asked him of his Person and Office; and because he affirmed 
that great Truth, which all the world of good men long’d for, that 
he was the Messias, and designed to sit at the right hand of the Majesty 
on high, they resolved to call it Blasphemy, and delivered him over 


70 ~The Puritans 


to Pilate, and by importunity and threats, forced him against his 
Conscience, to give him up to be scourged, and then to be Cruci- 
fied. The Souldiers therefore mocking him with a robe and reed, 
and pressing a Crown of thorns upon his head, led him to the 
place of his death; compelling him to bear his Cross, to which they 
presently nail’d him; on which for three hours he hang’d in 
extreme torture, being a sad spectacle of the most afflicted, and 
the most innocent person of the whole warld. 


Putting aside individual idiosyncrasies for the moment, we ob- ,, 
serve certain tendencies which are common to all three selections: 
an eloquence which is achieved by such rhythmic periods, man- 
nered ingenuity, grammatical subtleties, and tortuous language as 
rob the prose of any sense of urgency while conveying through the 
rich, sometimes extravagant, fancy a poetic delicacy. It seems to 
be the authors’ conscious aim to stir the reader through the wealth 
and variety of ornaments, through balance, antithesis, and al- 
literation, through word-pairs and verbal conceits. The Puritans, 
on the other hand, adopted plainness to give the application of 
their sermons more force and directness; there is ready use of fig- 
ure in their sermons, but the intent is less to enrich the color of 
the prose than to vitalize the point at issue, to intensify the con- 
creteness, or clarify the doctrine. Perhaps the four examples’ here 
set forth will serve to point the case: 


Learn wee then hereby, every one of us to judge our selves and 
our families, and to teach every person to judge themselves, as at 
other times, so more especially in the dayes of their humiliation, 
and when they come to renew their promises and vowes with their 
God. If David were not able to say that his house were perfect 
with God, what then may we say? we have not that means which 
he had, such Teachers to instruct us, such guides whereby we 
might be brought forward, neither are wee compassed about 
with Prophets in a land of uprightnesse; where shall we finde an 
house that walks with God as David did? that growes as the tender 
grasse, and is as the Sun without cloud? We are therefore to 
charge our selves with our follies and failings, and to humble our 
selves for them, whether it be towards God, or towards one an- 
other: wee should consider how wee are failing in the true feare of 


1 The first is John Cotton, The Covenant of Gods free Grace (London, 1645), p. 7; the 
second, Thomas Shepard, The Clear Sun-shine of the Gospel (London, 1648), p. 37; the 
third, Urian Oakes, New-England Pleaded with, p. 34; the fourth, Samuel Willard, The 
Child’s Portion (Boston, 1684), pp. 226, 227 (selection from sermon entitled “All Plots 
against God and his People Detected and Defeated’’). | 


* 


Introduction 71 


God, how subject we are to eye-service, and although wee can do 
little in reforming kingdomes and nations, yet we may take care 
for our own houses, wee may judge our selves and our families in 
our manifold failings, we may judge our selves for our high- 
mindednesse, drousinesse in good duties, for our evill slow heart 
to get hold of any spirituall thing, for our customary perform- 
ances. 


Thus you have a true, but somewhat rent and ragged relation 
of these things; it may be most sutable to the story of naked and 
ragged men: my desire is that no mans Spectacles may deceive 
him, so as to look upon these things either as bigger or lesser, 
better or worser then they are; which all men generally are apt 
to doe at things at so great distance, but that they may judge of 
them as indeed they are, by which truth they see here exprest in 
the things themselves. I knowe that some thinke that all this 
worke among them is done and acted thus by the Indians to please 
the English, and for applause from them; and it is not unlikely 
but ’tis in many, who doe but blaze for a time; but certainly ’tis 
not so in all, but that the power of the Word hath taken place in 
some, and that inwardly and effectually, but how far savingly 
time will declare, and the reader may judge of, by the story it 
self of these things. 


Nor am I so Severe, or Morose, as to exclaim against this or 
that Fashion, provided it carry nothing of Immodesty in it, or 
Contrariety to the Rules of Moral Honesty. The civil Gustome 
of the place where we live is that which must regulate in this case. 
But when persons spend more time in trimming their Bodies then 
their Souls, that you may say of them (as a Worthy Divine wittily 
speaks) that they are like the Cinamon Tree, nothing good but the 
Bark: When they go beyond what their State and Condition will 
allow, that they are necessitated to run into Debt, and neglect 
works of mercy and charity, or exact upon others in their dealings, 
that they may maintain their Port and Garb; or when they exceed 
their Rank and Degree (whereas one end of Apparel is to dis- 
tinguish and put a difference between persons according to their 
Places and Conditions) and when the Sons and Daughters of 
Sion are proud and haughty in their Carriage and Attire in an 
humbling time, when the Church is brought low, Jerusalem and 
Iudah is in a Ruinous Condition, and the Lord calls to deep 
Humiliation: This is very displeasing to God, and both Scripture 
and Reason condemn it. These are the most gross, and fantastical, 


and foolish buddings of Pride. 


72 The Puritans 
The Web which they [the wicked] have been for a long while in 


weaving, God will unravel in a moment: He will shortly muster 
up his Forces and draw out his Armies into the Field, and call 
together the Fowls of Heaven to his great Supper which he shall 
provide for them, where he will give them to eat of the flesh of 
Kings ... Rev. 19.17. This is the work which he hath undertaken 
to do, and will certainly accomplish it throughly, who hath written 
on his Vesture, and on his Thigh, KING OF KINGS, AND 
LORD OF LORDS. And since the case stands thus, what is 
there then remaining more for us to do, but to be the Lord’ S 
Remembrancers. Not ceasing day nor night to be earnestly and 
importunately putting him in mind of his Covenant, his Name, 
and Glory? and in Faith pray to him in the behalf of his poor, 
despised, and abused Church, which is as a Lilly among the 
Thornes, that he would remember and not forget, or grow un- 
mindful of the Congregation which he hath purchased of old, 
and arise to save those that are as sheep prepared to the slaughter, 
and appointed to dy: And when we have thus done, and in a way 
of so doing, there is nothing more but to sit and wait to see the 
Salvation of the Lord. 


Let two good Puritans frame the idea in their own words— 
incidentally, in words embodying the very art they recommend: 1 


It is a good saying of one, that the Reading of many diverse 
heads without some interlaced meditations, is like eating of 
Marrow without bread. But he that shall take time to Pause upon 
what he reads (especially where great Truths are but in a few 
words hinted at) with intermixed meditations and ejaculations 
suitable to the matter in hand, shall find such Truths concisely 
delivered, to be like marrow and fatness, whereof a little goes far, 
and does feed and nourish much. 


Those who came to New England to establish a “Plantation 
Religious’? were gentlemen for whom a way to “truth” lay in ad- 
vancement of learning, if not encyclopedic, then discriminating. 
The Puritan believed that any serious, intelligent work is a tran- 
script of life, and necessary to an understanding of that life, 
whether conveyed by way of history, poetry, or exegesis. “Hee 
resolved well that said, Books and friends would I have few and 
choice,” said William Morton,” and the sense of life as an art 
extends to the art of literary expression. A consciousness of style 

1 John Wise and Jonathan Mitchell, preface to Samuel Whiting, A Discourse of the 


Last Judgement (Cambridge, 1664), sig. A8. 
2 Preface to John Cotton, The way of Life, opening sentence. 


Introduction | 13 


was present from the first,! bred into schoolboys who did little 
except imitate and absorb the rhetorical exellencies of classical 
writers. Clearly, however, the Puritans admired the direct ex- 
position and lucid argument of their models, not the elaborate 
rhetorical constructions. Roger Williams apologized to Lady Vane 
the Younger for “the forme and stile [which] I know will seem 
to this refined age, too rude and barbarous.” ? As a group the 
Puritans were in revolt against the oratorical flights, the flashing 
rockets of Pistolese which they had doubtless observed in the 
writings of the late Elizabethans. Nathaniel Ward’s “‘world of 
words” was out of fashion even as he coined them. They would 
have seemed out of place in the writings of any preacher;—that 
a Puritan should affect them is curious in the extreme: 


. . when I heare a nugiperous Gentledame inquire what dresse 
the Queen is in this week; what the nudiustertian fashion of the 
Court; I mean the very newest: with egge to be in it in all haste, 
what-ever it be; I look at her as the very gizzard of a trifle, the 
product of a quarter of a cypher, the epitome of nothing... .? 


Such glittering phrases lost caste among all Puritans after 1630, 
for they looked upon “high style,” with its definite conventions, 
as “Exotic Words” that led to “Carnal wisdome.” * Some who 
had been trained in the Anglican tradition changed their views 
of style as they swung over to the Puritan faith. Cotton Mather 
tells of the struggle which John Cotton underwent: 


And that which added unto the Reputation, thus raised for 
him, was an University Sermon, wherein sinning more to preach 
Self than Christ, he used such Florid Strains, as extremely recom- 
mended him unto the most, who relished the Wisdom of Words 
above the Words of Wisdom; Though the pompous Eloquence of 
that Sermon, afterwards gave such a Distast unto his own Reverend 
Soul, that with a Sacred Indignation he threw his Notes into the 
Pires... 

But although he had been Educated in the Peripatetick way, yet 
like the other Puritans of those times, he rather affected the 
Ramaean Discipline; and chose to follow the Methods of the Excel- 


1 See E. F. Bradford, ‘‘Conscious Art in Bradford’s History of Plymouth Plantation,” 
New England Quarterly, I (1928), 133-157; F. O. Matthiessen, ‘“Michael Wigglesworth, 
a Puritan Artist,” ibid., pp. 491-504. 

2 Experiments of Spiritual Life @ Health (London, 1652), p. iv. 

3 The Simple Cobler .. . (London, 1647), pp. 24, 25. 

* Increase Mather, The Life... of... Mr. Richard Mather (Cambridge, 1670), p. 85. © 
See also pp. 489-496 following. 


74 The Puritans 


lent Ramus, who like Justin of old vvas not only a Philosopher, but a 
Christian, and a Martyr also; rather than the more Empty, Trifling, 
Altercative Notions, to. which the Works of the Pagan Aristotle 
derived unto us, through the Mangling Hands of the Apostate 
Prophyrie, have Disposed his Disciples . . .1 


The turn to plainness was thus established in Puritan America 
from the beginning, and the controversies over style carried on 
in England were but slightly reflected in the colonies. On two 
occasions in particular ministers took opportunity to express opin- | 
ions on literary art: The funeral sermon offered them a chance 
to pay critical tribute to the writings of the departed,” and the 
sermon preached at the ordination of a young pastor furnished 
occasion to theorize on oratory and literary composition: 


When instead of conveying his Ideas and Sense of Things in 
plain and natural Words and Expressions, the minister [makes] 
use of the Jargon of Logic and Metaphysics, or amuses [the audi- 
tors] with Hebrew, Greek, Latin or French Names; or soars above 
them in Flights of Poetry, and Flourishes of Rhetorick; or goes 
into the other Extream of using indecent and homely Phrases, 
such as savour of the Mobb or the Play-house, he gives Offence.3 


Our discussion so far has been limited to theories of style in 
sermon literature. The Puritan historians were as scrupulous as 
the ministers in preserving the amenities of a plain, lucid style. 
Governor Bradford opened ‘Of Plimmoth Plantation” by say- 
ing that he is about to narrate events ““The which I shall en- 
deuor to manefest in a plaine stile; with singuler regard unto y® 
simple trueth in all things.” * The remark is characteristic of 


1 Cotton Mather, Johannes in Eremo (Boston, 1695), pp. 52, 53; idem, Magnalia, 
Bk. III, chap. 1, p. 15. Ramus’ reform of logic was accompanied by a reform of 
rhetoric, in both cases in the direction of simplicity and clarity. The two studies went 
hand in hand, the Puritans embracing the logic of Ramus and the rhetorical prin- 
ciples of Ramus’ disciple, Omer Talon; while the Anglican preachers in the main 
clung to the traditional Aristotelian logic and scholastic rhetoric. See also Samuel 
Eliot Morison, Harvard College in the Seventeenth Century, pp. 172-187. 

2 See Benjamin Colman, The Prophet’s Death: Lamented ... (Boston, 1723), p. 32 
(sermon for Increase Mather); John Barnard, Elijah’s Mantle... (Boston, 1724), 
p. 36 (sermon for Ezekiel Cheever); Eliphalet Adams, A Funeral Discourse ... (New 
London, 1724), sig. K 3 (sermon for Gurdon Saltonstall). 

3 Ebenezer Turell, Ministers should carefully avoid giving Offence in any Thing (Boston, 
1740), p. 14. For similar ideas, see Cotton Mather, Parentator . . . (Boston, 1724), 
p. 215; Samuel Mather, The Life of . . . Cotton Mather . . . (Boston, 1729), pp. 33, 343 
Nathaniel Appleton, Superior Skill and Wisdom... (Boston, 1737), p. 26; William 
Cooke, The great Duty of Ministers ... (Boston, 1742), p. 7. 

4 MS (ca. 1650) in Massachusetts State Library, Boston. From Facsimile, ed. J. A. 
Doyle, (London, 1896). 


Introduction | 75 


Renaissance critical theory in so far as it shows the author dedi- 
cating himself to the exposition of moral truth. Bradford’s nephew, 
orang heavily upon his uncle’s work, acknowledged that he has 

‘more solicitously followed the truth of things” than “studied 
quaintness in expressions.”” 1 When Thomas Sprat came to write 
the history of the Royal Society of London, he described the 
practice which that body had demanded of its members. We 
might almost say that Sprat’s words give an official sanction to 
a manner of writing which the Puritans for many years had 
approved and adopted: 


And, in few words, I dare say that, of all the Studies of men, 
nothing may be sooner obtain’d than this vicious abundance of 
Phrase, this trick of Metaphors, this volubility of Tongue, which 
makes so great a noise in the World.... 

[The members of the Royal Society] have therefore been most 
rigorous in putting in execution the only Remedy that can be 
found for this extravagance, and that has been a constant Resolu- 
tion to reject all amplifications, digressions, and swellings of 
style; to return back to the primitive purity and shortness, when 
men deliver’d so many things almost in an equal number of words. 
They have exacted from all their members a close, naked, natural 
way of speaking, positive expressions, clear senses, a native easi- 
ness, bringing all things as near the Mathematical plainness as 
they can, and preferring the language of Artizans, Countrymen, 
and Merchants, before that of Wits or Scholars.? 


Colonial secular writers continued to advocate the method which 
had been most serviceable. Daniel Gookin says that his narrative 
is “‘not clothed in elegancy of words and accurate sentences,”’ 
since, he concludes, “I have endeavoured all plainness that I 
can, that the most vulgar capacity might understand.” ° It was 
a point of view carried into the eighteenth century with little 
variation.* 

As expressions of aio theory passed from the rationalistic 


1 William Morton, New-Englands Memoriall (Cambridge, 1669), preface. 

2 The History of the Royal-Society of London (1667), section XX, in J. E. Spingarn, 
Critical Essays of the Seventeenth Century (Oxford, 1908), II, 117, 118. 

3 Historical Collections of the Indians in New England (preface dated November, 1674), 
in Collections of the Massachusetts Historical Society, first series, I (1792), 141-226; see also 
James Allen, New-Englands choicest Blessing (Boston, 1679), preface. 

4 See Howard M. Jones, ‘‘American Prose Style: 1700-1770,” Huntington Library 
Bulletin, No. 6 (1934), pp. 115-151. See also Benjamin Colman, preface to Samuel 
Penhallow, The History of the Wars of New-England (Boston, 1726); Cotton MALEN, 
Magnalia (1702), “General Introduction.” 


76 The Puritans 


philosophers—men like Sprat, for instance—to such appreciators 
of literature as Dryden and Addison, and as the magazines sprang 
up in the first quarter of the eighteenth century to give general 
access to literary expression, the changes in literary fashions are 
reflected by Puritans. They wished to escape the criticism, now 
being leveled at them, that they were a provincial stock, out of the 
current of public taste in England, concerned merely with abstract 
theology. As early as 1708 Cotton Mather discourses of classical 
writers in the manner of the English essayists.. When Jonathan 
Belcher, the governor’s son, was an undergraduate at Harvard 
(1725-1730), he kept in his commonplace book many pages of 
extracts from The Spectator and The Guardian, from Blackwall, 
Rapin, and Halifax on critical and aesthetic theories. They leave 
no doubt of the influence upon one young Puritan of the cur- 
rent English literary modes. Even the pious and cantankerous 
governor, no author himself, voiced gracious tribute to a study 
of belles lettres in the educational scheme of his son in the many 
letters he wrote to the young man who was studying law in Eng- 
land soon after 1730.” After 1722 a change is observable in literary 
taste, brought about in part by the decreasing isolation of New 
England from current trends abroad. As the second quarter of 
the century approached, nearly all tastes that may be labeled 
Puritan were rapidly adapting themselves to the English modes. 
No work on style was exerting more universal influence than 
Fénelon’s Dialogues on Eloquence, wherein the archbishop of Cam- 
bray averred that he thought “the whole Art of Oratory may be 
reduc’d to proving, painiing, and raising the Passions’; it should 
reach the heart, not merely stir the imagination.’ His point of view 
found ready adherents among the coming generation, and to the 
extent it was adopted indicates that the earlier Puritan feeling— 
that consciousness of style should be concealed—was undergoing 
change. Cotton Mather leaves no doubt that the public was de- 
veloping a finicky sensitivity to style: 


1 Corderius Americanus (Boston, 1708), sig. A2; see idem, Just Commemorations (Boston, 
1715), p. i. 

2 The Belcher Papers, 2 vols., in Collections of the Massachusetts Historical Society, sixth 
series, VI, VII (1893, 1894); for example, I, 125-129, 180-187, 197-205. 

3 Dialogues... (London, 1722), p. 74. See Thomas Prince, preface to Thomas 
Hooker, The Poor Doubting Christian (Boston, 1743), p- 13. In England Dennis was 
an advocate of emotion in the pulpit as contrasted with “‘correctness”; so also was 
Thomas Blackwall. For a recent discussion of the eighteenth-century view of the 
‘“‘Passions,”’ see “The Sublime and the Pathetic,” in Samuel H. Monk, The Sublime: 
A Study of Critical Theories in XVII-Century England (New York, 1935), chap. III. 


Introduction =~ ifs 


The blades that set up for critics . . . appear to me, for the most 
part, as contemptible as they are a supercilious generation. For 
indeed no two of them have the same stile; and they are as in- 
tolerably cross-grained, and severe in their censures upon one 
another, as they are upon the rest of mankind . . . There is much 
talk of a florid stile obtaining among the pens that are most in 
vogue; but how often would it puzzle one, even with the best 
glasses to find the flowers! .. . After all, every man will have his 
own stile.? 


At no point does the literary thought of the Puritans reflect 
the trend of the times more exactly than in their views of poetry. 
When Milton, searching for a worthy epic theme, finally chose 
to write on the fall of man, he was himself but following a trail 
that had been already blazed. Davenant had said that poetry 
“is as all good Arts subservient to Religion,’ ? and Abraham 
Cowley, greatly admired for his learning, had begun Davideis, 
a sacred epic. The famous preface to Cowley’s Poems remarks 
that ‘he who can write a prophane Poem well may write a Divine 
one better.’ > Puritans were agreed that subjects other than moral 
and divine were unworthy of serious treatment. It was as in- 
heritors of the Renaissance and of the metaphysicals that Puritans 
conceived of poetry as a learning or a moral philosophy directed 
toward the highest ends within the conception of man; and be- 
lieving such, they viewed mere versifying as a pleasant accom- 
plishment for leisure hours. The Puritans who compiled the Bay 
Psalm Book saying that ““Gods Altar needs not our pollishing”’; ¢ 
the men who “‘attended Conscience rather then Elegance, fidelity 
rather then poetry,’ ° were in part tacitly acknowledging their 
inadequacy as poets, not belittling the power of verse—into which, 
after all, they were fashioning their thoughts. More influential and 
learned men than Wigglesworth had furnished precedent for his 
remark that he would traffic with 


No Toyes nor Fables (Poets wonted Crimes) .. . 
For I do much abominate 

To call the Muses to mine aid: 

Which is th’ Unchristian use, and trade 

Of some that Christians would be Thought... . 6 


1 Manuductio ad Ministerium (Boston, 1726), pp. 44-46. 

2 Preface to Gondibert (1650), ed. Spingarn, op. cit., II, 48. 
3 Ibid. (1656), p. go. * Conclusion to preface. 

5 Prefatory poem to Wigglw worth, Day of Doom, sig. xx3V. 
© Ibid., sig. B1, Ba. 


78 The Puritans 


To none of the founders would Addison’s conception of poetry 
as an indulgence of the imagination,—a relaxation by which we 
are ‘‘cheared and delighted with agreeable sensations,’ have been 
adequate. But as fashions changed, as the bonds between the 
colonies and England became closer, the Puritans inevitably were 
affected, for they more and more reflected the trends in England. 
Thoughtful Puritans essayed verses often enough, and recom- 
mended poetic composition as good training for the young; but 
enthusiasm for poetry as a means of expressing great truths in 
exalted moods gave place to urbane appreciation of verse as a 
social accomplishment. Such a concept indicates that strictly 
Puritan theories were on the wane, even though the Bible re- 
mained the fountain of inspiration for some time to come. For 
simon-pure Puritans David ever remained the “Divine Poet,”’ for 
he “derived his Inspiration not from Parnassus, but from ion, the 
Mount of God.”’ ! 

It is as writers of prose that the Puritans’ literary art finally 
must be judged. Prose was the vehicle for their finest thoughts; 
it was the one by which they assisted a whole people to a realiza- 
tion of the powerful idiom at hand for all men to use. They were 
men who valued learning highly, who talked and wrote volu- 
minously, and of whose style it may be said, as of their colleagues 
in England, that “‘while to the Royal Society must be given the 
honour of definitely hallmarking the new style, to the more tem- 
perate among the Puritan preachers belongs the praise of hav- 
ing demonstrated to large masses of the nation, learned and 
unlearned, the possibilities of a simple, straightforward, unencum- 
bered prose.” ? It is impossible, furthermore, to escape the con- 
viction that all who wrote were conscious of the importance of 
style, and that most of them adhered to some model.. Many left 
record of their theories. The ornate fashion of Samuel Lee and 
Samuel Chandler is as unrepresentative of Puritan theory of style 
as Jonathan Edwards’s youthful remark that he would scant it 
altogether.? The problem of poetic composition seldom absorbed 
their attention, but in so far as they were gentlemen trained in 
the manners of their day they were alert to the changes of taste, 


1 Thomas Walter, The Sweet Psalmist of Israel (Boston, 1722), p. 2. 

2 W. Fraser Mitchell, English Pulpit Oratory from Andrewes to Tillotson (London, 1932), 
P. 275: 
3§. E. Dwight, The Life of President Edwards (New York, 1829), p. 601. See also 
John Webb’s funeral sermon for Peter Thacher, The Duty of Survivers (Boston, 1739), 
p. 27, for a similar opinion. . 


Introduction | 79 


and adapted themselves, especially in the later Puritan era, to the 
current modes. Prose, on the other hand, was the vehicle for their 
ripest thoughts and their deepest emotions. A flat, awkward, cum- 
brous style is rarely encountered in their treatises or sermons; 
the color of their rhetoric was absorbed from the world they 
knew about them—the sea, the market place, the moods of nature. 
In the hands of such men as John Cotton, Thomas Hooker, In- 
crease Mather, or John Wise the style is seldom commonplace; 
frequently distinguished:—they lived in an age when devotional 
literature and sermons were a staple diet, when current preaching 
fashions were shaping literary taste. It should also be remembered 
that the Puritans who guided the thought of their day were never 
merely sectarian in their reading. The Bible was the great font 
of Puritan inspiration and the model for their style, yet behind 
the Bible was the common heritage of Renaissance learning and 
Elizabethan enthusiasm. The Puritans more than others shaped 
that learning and enthusiasm to the idiom of language with a 
clarity, directness, grace, and freedom from eccentricity that ren- 
dered incalculable service to English prose. 


80 The Puritans 


Shi Corgnape & tothe off my Len fo Blt. mah ome. bree ie 
Me, 


of G _% fil ait on nth te Kgnm to ante, 
Mi ig Kong Maa. aferOs mer. er a hyo _ whet wile’ Kane 
the minymye of My fornt foorts, 13 Le eee So mfork ? 
gat fk HM LORS OTe mace a Kitt Sah fog sek ag 
Ch fun ge ha erage H be Pe A ot te 
heapr:,% spon ak Dye tapos 

Kop + A Ms MOL PEE A fom eo Ses 
oe fo bin b, whet-ts Ma mmaSrerge % ay sho on cet. 

Reet Spay Geuyny" * ha- fearedonfe pear 
CIC Tk 


; POT ic haan ites 
ey be pe ap ies w ta eg Wl 
0, joke bath Cail halk ot tepa 8 1 is fo Kring on hao , 
ene ee cel rake SHE OREN 
pepe wily Rink fo Hanns Lipp or 52 fo 
fa pow % Afemh mom = Forhrse mgr Chait ton +4: -fb 29 whorherr 
$4 Loan nw 4 kel, (arte; (irs took in ban, hasnt tr, 
ge PON SEEL: 5H aceon o\ porkon Ma Grd 
Ree ee I eeccas ree CRTs Sr 
i o fia, be opr. ¢ LO oetaens, te Yeo hhc «hen. 
tre foe Boot Kpfe of Maer dope of Cbeny-Lhin Gomns Ch. oe hon 
qwt vie tohe- esrb om Mi meorrng 10. Vheal coca ere gore 
Texertobelyy_ tw hen an hee Kash. nO Pere work ‘fo VoL me mere parte ov 


to ; ; 

ox raphon ox fupheberer 

Tabet ape try ae beer a force. K Mn. onohbsac (Fase 

ow veered thot: thi Ke, fruity of lly lee Ota 
bs Me. Lon. fox Fey te aor. Mca 

oe pier eal “ pur wags sO sc RE 


te “9- Uooahsy: a Ge \ damey dh or Lo why o& 
£ mers mow, pine ee, 06a om hb. 


he sh sean tee a eee Cel Le age 
| cael : pee wh bos ae Kin to arn 


or os wens Kaibrigh ¢ fie i se ee 
fie 2% g 4. K chaBrix f F4 


ee M sey hin ar 3 fo i gyn pe= 
ee faweruly fallinc % 7 
CR pee POR. Meats 5h Py Ane Sree 


ep Glam Gatiy 


Letter of John Winthrop to His Wife. (’or text, see p. 465.) 


c@§ Chapter I 


HISTORY 


N THE 1660’s and 1670's, as the last survivors of the first generation 
were dying off, and the ministers felt that the religious ardor of their 
successors was noticeably cooling, preachers before the General Court 
of Massachusetts frequently called for the composition of a history of 
New England. They hoped that a chronicle of the deeds of the 
fathers would arouse the emulation of the sons, and that a recital of 
the favors which God had already bestowed upon the colony would 
incite the present inhabitants to a determination to merit still more 
of them. They strove to arrest the general declension from the 
original ideals, upon which we have already commented (pp. 17- 
19), by adducing the testimonies of divine approbation evident in 
the history of the commonwealth. Thus in 1673 Urian Oakes dwelt 
at length upon this theme: 

Hath God essayed to go and take him a part of a Nation from the 
midst of a Nation, by temptations, by signs, by wonders, by a mighty 
hand & by an out-stret[c]hed arm, according to all that the Lord your 
God hath done for you before your eyes? God hath shewn us almost 
unexampled unparall[el]Jed mercy. And it were very well if there were a 
memorial of these things faithfully drawn up, and transmitted to 
Posterity . . . It is our great duty to be the Lords Remembrancers or 
Recorders . . . that the mercies of the Lord (that hath allured us into 
this wilderness, spoken comfortably to us and dealt bountifully with 
us therein) may be faithfully registred in our hearts, and remem- 
bred by us. It is a desireable thing, that all the loving kindnesses of 
God, and his singular favours to this poor and despised out cast 
might be Chronicled and communicated (in the History of them) to 
succeeding Ages; that the memory of them may not dy and be extinct, 
with the present Generation.! 


The call for a history of Massachusetts Bay was redoubled after 
1669, when Nathaniel Morton published a history of Plymouth, New 
England’s Memoriall. The General Court at last paid the Reverend 
William Hubbard £50 for having composed a corresponding vol-— 
ume for Massachusetts, declaring, “it hath binn thought necessary, 
& a duty incumbent vpon vs to take due notice of all occurrances 
& passages of Gods providence towards the people of this jurisdiction 
since their first arrivall in these parts.’ * Hubbard pocketed the money, 


1 New-England Pleaded with (Cambridge, 1673), p. 23. 
2 Massachusetts Records, V, 279, 378, 394. 
81 


82 The Paste 


but can hardly be said to have earned it. Neither his nor Morton’s 
work contributed anything worth much in itself; the chief value of 
both books came from the fact that the authors had access to un- 
published manuscripts by the two great governors of the colonies at 
the time of the respective settlements. Morton and Hubbard did little 
more than plagiarize from the History of Plymouth Plantation of William 
Bradford, and from the journal of John Winthrop. In spite of the 
ministerial demand, two of the three masterpieces of New England 
historiography were not printed until the nineteenth century, and the, 
third, Cotton Mather’s Magnalia, was not issued until 1701. 

For our purposes, however, the important point about Oakes’s para- 
graph is not its failure to get results, but the philosophy of history 
that it contains, either explicitly or by implication. He puts a some-~ 
what exaggerated emphasis upon the use of history in arousing a 
lethargic generation, but even so he gives an excellent statement of 
what the Puritan conceived to be the function of an historian and 
from what point of view the narrative should be arranged. History 
is a memorial of the mercies of God, so that posterity may know them, 
remember them, and hymn. His praises. The history of New England 
is history par excellence, for the mercies of God have been shown in 
New England above all other portions of the globe. History is not 
only philosophy teaching by example, but theology exemplified. 

During the seventeenth century there was carried on in learned 
circles a debate between the “‘ancients’’ and the “‘moderns,”? between 
scholars who believed that the ancients, being closer to the date of 
creation, were inevitably of.a stronger and more original genius than 
was any longer possible, and those who believed that genius could 
flourish as well in modern centuries as in classical. This dispute, being 
largely a literary one, did not much interest the Puritans, but had 
they taken sides in it, they would certainly have supported the mod- 
ernists’ contention. They would not have been swayed by a prefer- 
ence for modern literature over the ancient, but would have been 
determined by their fundamental belief in divine providence. To them 
all human affairs have always been under the continuous direction 
of God; history is the record of His incessant supervision, and there 
can be no real decline or fluctuation of God’s power. The past is a 
drama, written, directed, produced and prompted by God. It must, 
therefore, be as full of meaning at one time as at another. The natural 
world, the customs of men, the abilities of statesmen, all purely physical 
aspects of existence do not vary in kind from one era to another: 
“In Civil matters there be the like manners of men now as of old; 


History AB 


the like causes and successes of warre and peace &c. whence the 
knowledge of History of former times is so much behovefull.” It is 
therefore wrong to prefer ‘“‘elder times before the present.’ Nature 
has not decayed; great authors of the past are indeed to be read, 
but we are “‘not to approve all their sayings and doings, as best.” 
At whatever moment we happen to live, God has called upon us to 
achieve “‘a wise consideration of our present times.” 4 

Consequently for the Puritan writer of history there is always a 
two-fold consideration determining his attitude toward his material, 
and sometimes the one reflection seems almost contradictory to the 
other. On the one hand, everything that has happened, disaster as 
well as triumph, the minutest event as well as the greatest, has been 
under divine control. God is not a being of whims or caprices, He is 
not less powerful at one moment than at another; therefore in a cer- 
tain sense any event is just as significant as any other. But on the other 
hand, God regulates the universe for distinct ends; He does not work 
without purpose, and history should be seen as a long revelation of 
divine intentions. Therefore the first function of the historian is to 
relate everything that has happened, to exclude nothing, to erect no 
standards or criteria on,a purely human basis. He must not sort out 
his materials, suppress some facts and accentuate others, because they 
conform to patterns he has himself constructed, such as economic in- 
terest, national characteristics, literary forms. Yet at the same time 
the historian is not merely to relate what has happened, but to in- 
terpret it. He must show wherein events have fulfilled God’s purposes 
whenever the purposes can be ascertained. He must pass judgment 
on men accordingly as they served the divine design. On the first 
score he is not to exploit personality for the sake of personality, as the 
modern biographer does, but on the second he is to estimate all men 
from the one absolute standard, as Bradford estimates his dear friend 
Elder Brewster, or as Cotton Mather does John Eliot. Because every 
minutest happening, every fortune of war, every chance coincidence, 
is arranged by God, the Puritan historian does not elide minor in- 
cidents or incidental stories if their meaning is clear. In the midst of 
telling the broad movements or major crises he can always stop, as 
Bradford does, to relate ‘‘a spetiall work of Gods providence,” and 
John Winthrop, putting into his Journal the material he intended ul- 
timately to use in a formal history, finds that-the rescue of the wife 
of one Dalkin, “‘dwelling near Medford,” by clinging to her dog’s 


1 John Cotton, A Briefe Exposition . . . upon . . . Ecclesiastes (London, 1654), pp. 
21, 129-132, 


84 The Puritans 


tail, is intrinsically as important as the whole episode of the An- 
tinomian turmoil. In reading histories of Puritan authorship it is 
necessary that we always remember the vast difference between their 
intentions and those of modern writers. The Puritan would feel that 
the points of view assumed by a twentieth-century scholar are deter- 
mined solely by the writer’s place in time and space, and therefore 
temporary, fallacious, and partial. Yet where the modern researcher 
feels bound to tell all the facts, not to generalize before exhaustive 
investigation, the Puritan has no hesitancy in sifting his material, , 
placing emphases, omitting facts, generalizing upon any single piece 
of evidence, interpreting every action by one explicit standard. The 
guiding principle of his art is the extent to which anything can be 
made to illustrate clearly the operation of God’s will. The contemporary 
historian would stress the economic and social inducement for the 
migration to New England; Thomas Shepard is concerned only with 
showing that in 1630 God Himself was engineering the opportunity 
and thereby ordering men to seize upon it. 

Consequently two distinct characteristics reveal themselves when we 
come to the study of Puritan historiography. In the first place, the 
art of history, as practiced by Puritans, is bound to be specific and. 
concrete, bound to stay close to the particular happening and epi- 
sode; it is apt to be anecdotal, for the design of the whole is the will 
of God, which always emerges of itself if each step of the procedure 
is adequately noted and interpreted. In the second place, it is also a 
didactic art; nothing is to be told for its own sake alone; if any portion 
of history yields no meanings, it is either to be presented as a problem 
yet to be solved, like some obscure passage in scripture, or else it is 
to be ignored entirely. Above all, no explanations which rest merely 
upon natural or secondary causation, on mere economic motives, 
political expediency, accidental circumstance, the character of this 
or that man—no such explanations are to be accepted as final. God’s 
will is the ultimate reason why things fall out one: way rather than 
another, although God does work through natural causes; His will is 
intelligent, and the task of the historian is to discover, as far as the 
evidence will permit, the conscious and deliberate direction which lies 
behind all events. 

Puritan history was posited upon the assumption of an eternal same- 
ness in things, their perpetual control by the same agency for the same 
ends. Yet there was no denial that surfaces varied from age to age, 
that if the essential configurations were identical, the particular 
manifestations could show a vast difference from one century to an- 


6 


History 85 


other. The unity within variety for which Puritan thinkers sought in 
all other fields of speculation and study was also the objective of the 
Puritan historian, and he, not less than the theologian, strove not to 
lose sight of the one in the many or to over-simplify the particulars in 
establishing the universal. Thus John Cotton explained the historical 
process: 


The principal cause of all passages in the world: which is not mans 
weaknesse, or goodnesse, but chiefly the wise and strong and good 
providence of God: who presenteth every age with a new stage of acts 
and actors... And if a Poet would not present his spectators but 
with choyce variety of matters, how much lesse God? 4 


So New England chroniclers had first to demonstrate that their nar- 
ratives exemplified once more the eternal and immutable regulations 
of providence, and then to indicate the particular and individual 
character of their own age. And when they came to this latter con- 
sideration, they explained history by what they believed to be the 
all-engrossing concern of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, the 
Reformation. Though all ages are under God’s government, and one 
age should teach as much about him as any other, or equally exhibit 
his majesty, still some ages achieve greater exhibitions of his power 
than less fortunate ones. Next to the period in which Christ himself 
had lived, the Puritans believed that the hundred years since Luther 
nailed his theses on the cathedral door at Wittenberg were the most 
fraught with meaning of all human history. 


Truth is the Daughter of time, was the saying of old, and our daily 
experience gives in evidence and proof hereof, to every mans ordinary 
observation. Only as in other births, so here, the barrennesse and fruit- 
fullnesse of severall ages, depend meerly upon Gods good pleasure, who 
opens and shuts the womb of truth from bearing, as he sees fit, ac- 
cording to the counsell of his own will. 

Not that there is any change in the truth, but the alteration grows, 
according to mens apprehensions, to whom it is more or lesse dis- 
covered, according to Gods most just judgement, and their own de- 
servings.” 

Clearly the Protestant movement had come about because men’s ap- 
prehensions had been enabled to discover more of the truth than at 
any time since the Apostles; and as the Reformation was a continuous 
movement away from the Church of Rome toward the pure discipline 
established by Christ, the pure doctrine taught by scripture, and the 


1 John Cotton, A Briefe Exposition... upon... Ecclesiastes (London, 1654), p. 131. 
2 Thomas Hooker, A Survey of the Summe of Church-Discipline (London, 1648), Ag recto. 


86 | The Puritans 


society built, politically and socially as well as ecclesiastically, upon 
divine enactments, New England was the culmination of the Refor- 
mation, the climax of world history, the ultimate revelation through 
events of the objective toward which the whole of human activity 
had been tending from the beginning of time. Winthrop preached to 
the emigrants during the voyage that the eyes of the world would be 
upon them, that they would be as a city set upon a hill for all to 
observe (p. 199); Canin Edward Jeheson imagined that Christ him- 
self had drawn up the “‘commission”’ for the migration; Cotton Mather _ 
modestly admitted that the churches in New England were not per- 
fect, but that they were the best the world had yet achieved. The 
inspiration for the writing of histories by pious New Englanders was 
consequently twofold: not only to exhibit the truth as shown in the 
course of the world under God’s providence, but to establish the climax 
of that course in the Reformation, of which New England was the 
supreme and purest embodiment. 

Of course, there were many persons in the world, particularly in 
England, who did not agree with the New Englanders’ idea of their 
own importance. The Anglicans naturally would not believe that any 
form of Puritanism was the logical result of the Reformation; Puritans 
who believed in the Presbyterian rather than the Congregational polity 
said all the discreditable things they could think of concerning New 
England, the soil, the climate, the inhabitants, and the practices; 
those Puritans who turned eventually to a philosophy of toleration 
attacked the New England Way for its tyranny and cruelty; Puritans 
who stayed at home to fight the King accused their brethren in America 
of having run away from danger. In order to maintain their view of 
history, with their contention that it had come to a peak in their own 
experiment, New England historians had to present the story of settle- 
ment and conquest, of ecclesiastical triumph and political institution, 
as they saw it. And sometimes the spokesmen for New England did 
not have time to tell the whole story, but were forced to take up their 
pens in answer to specific charges and to plead special cases against 
the particular reproaches. . 

In the selections given in this ahamiee there are examples of both 
formal history and occasional polemic. Higginson’s pamphlet was sent 
back from Salem, to which an advance guard of the Massachusetts 
Bay Company had gone out in 1629; it was an advertising tract de- 
fending the region from the charge of being a barren desert, made 
against it by enemies of the enterprise. There are some respects in 
which Puritans writing about their own history are amazingly im- 


History 87 


partial; since they viewed whatever had happened as God’s doing, 
they could suppress or twist facts only by running the danger of 
blaspheming God’s work. But in the heat of controversy, or to score 
a point against mortal adversaries, they were strongly tempted to 
exaggerate, to put the best possible face on some rather dubious matters. 
Those who have lived in and with the climate of New England may 
very justifiably feel that good parson Higginson allowed his enthusiasm 
to run away with his judgment on that score. Thomas Shepard and 
John Allin wrote their book in direct answer to an attack upon the 
New England churches. In the late 1630’s a group: of Presbyterian 
Puritans had sent over a list of nine embarrassing questions concern- 
ing ecclesiastical practices. John Davenport had been commissioned 
to answer them, which he had done in the name of the ministers and 
the elders; in 1643 his manuscript was published in London, and be- 
cause just at that moment the furious controversy between English 
Independents and Presbyterians was flaring up, Davenport’s work 
was assailed with unanimity by the Presbyterians. One of these, John 
Ball, was an author much read and admired in New England for 
his theological writings, and his attack upon the New England church — 
polity was exceedingly distressing to the ministers; Shepard and Allin 
were commissioned to reply to Ball’s attack upon Davenport’s answers 
to the original nine questions—thus did religious controversy lengthen 
out from book to book in the seventeenth century. Ball not only 
assailed the form of church organization, but raised the cry that those 
who fled to New England were deserters, that they had been afraid 
to stay in England and fight the good fight. The preface to the book, 
probably written by Shepard alone—for it has all the marks of his 
very individual style—reviews in masterly fashion the history of the 
settlement, and is perhaps the best surviving statement in their own 
terms of the intentions of the Massachusetts leaders. 

The works of Bradford, Johnson, and Cotton Mather were written 
as full-dress, comprehensive histories, and the Journal of John Win- 
throp was undoubtedly a repository of jottings out of which he in- 
tended to compose a formal narrative. Of all the writings by New 
England Puritans in the seventeenth century, Bradford’s History is the 
pre-eminent work of art. No other document so perfectly incarnates 
the Puritan ideal of the simple and plain style, is so filled with the 
deep feeling of religious dedication, so perfectly masters the rhythms 
of Biblical prose, so fluently handles the imagery of the devotional 
life, or so reveals the solid, broad, and generous aspects of the Puritan 
character. But in reading these pages, the student should remember 


88 The Puritans 


that William Bradford was not quite a Puritan in the meaning in 
which the term is generally used in this volume. The true Puritan 
was a member of the Church of England, whose whole effort while 
in England was to remain within the Church and secure the mastery 
of it; he belonged to a strong, wealthy, organized, and powerful in- 
terest, led by important politicians and learned clergymen. Bradford 
was a Separatist, one of a small and earnest band of simple souls, all 
of humble station, who were quite incapable of containing their re- 
ligion within the fine distinctions by which the Puritans endeavored 
to stay in the Church at the same time that they were in deadly. 
combat with the authorities. The persons who made up the ‘“Pil- 
grim’? company were home-spun, hard-working farmers from Notting- 
hamshire and Lincolnshire; their minister, John Robinson, was a 
university man, and Elder Brewster had spent a couple of years at 
Cambridge, but otherwise they were men instructed only in the Bible 
and in simplicity of spirit. ‘They had openly broken with the Church of 
England, and proceeded to set up a completely “separate” body. 
No government in Europe at that epoch would have tolerated the 
existence of such a society, outside and independent of the established 
institution, and it is no wonder that the bishops and the sheriffs of 
England got after this congregation with vehemence. Holland alone 
of all Europe would offer an asylum to these people, though not so 
much because the Dutch believed in toleration as because the Sepa- 
ratists were theologically good Calvinists, as were the Dutch. Robin- 
son’s congregation, escaping to Holland, lived there for several years, 
until the reasons which Bradford enumerates persuaded many of them 
to undertake a settlement in America. Robinson did not come with 
the first settlers in 1620, and died before his intended removal; the 
community was without funds, entirely self-supporting, too small and 
insignificant to be noticed by the English authorities. Bradford’s his- 
tory is the history of simple folk, directly inspired by a religious ideal, 
working out the will of God by themselves, amid incredible hardship. 
They underwent privation because they were absolutely confident that 
they were obeying the direct behests of God Himself, and that through 
all miseries and anguish He was watching over them and testing their 
fidelity. The History of Plymouth Plantation is the story of that ordeal, 
told by the man who was the leader and whose simple strength and 
rugged integrity were the mainstays of the community. Plymouth was 
a minute, relatively insignificant community, completely overshadowed 
by Massachusetts Bay from 1630 on, and ultimately absorbed into it 
by the royal charter of 1692. The leaders of Massachusetts Bay were 


History | 89 


aggressive, educated, philosophical; Plymouth was pious, struggling, 
and desired chiefly to be let alone. But though Bradford is not, for 
these reasons, altogether representative of the Puritan mind in its in- 
tellectualized and metaphysical form, he might by that very fact be 
said to be the essence of the Puritan. The soaring passage in which 
he contemplates the plight of the settlers at the moment of landing, 
in November, 1620, and affirms the faith in the might of which they 
confronted the desolate shore and the murderous climate is the mas- 
terpiece of all Puritan eloquence. No other writer will lead us so di- 
rectly to the core of Puritanism as Bradford, none with such charm, 
generosity, largeness of spirit, with such calm assurance and massive 
strength will so completely reveal the essential frame of mind, the 
type of character, the quality of life that underlay the theology. 

The Journal of John Winthrop lacks the form and beauty of Brad- 
ford’s history by the very necessities of the case. It was a day-by-day, 
or at any rate month-by-month, chronicle of the adventure at Massa- 
chusetts Bay, put down in rare minutes of leisure by the outstanding 
leader of the expedition and the man upon whose shoulders rested 
the larger part of the responsibility for success or failure. Had he ever 
found opportunity to make a coherent history he would undoubtedly 
have polished the style and systematized the presentation. But even 
as a journal his volume frequently achieves genuine literary merit, 
and reveals completely the character and prowess of the Puritan states- 
man. In sharp contrast to Bradford, Winthrop came of distinctly 
aristocratic stock; his grandfather had been a wealthy clothier in the 
reign of Henry VIII, who obtained the manor of Groton in Suffolk 
when the monasteries were dispossessed; his father was a university 
man, a famous lawyer, who added to the family fortunes. John Win- 
throp himself attended Trinity College, Cambridge, though che left 
without taking a degree. Before he migrated to New England he was 
a country squire, a justice of the peace, an attorney and a mem- 
ber of the Inner Temple. When he left England it was at the sacrifice 
of a career already launched, a secure social position, a background 
of wealth, influence, and leisure. He came to New England deter- 
mined that the experiment should succeed, and it did; if he is not as 
eloquent in voicing the religious inspiration as Bradford, none the less 
the motive was in him as intensely and as powerfully. 

Edward Johnson was one of the citizens, not one of the humblest, 
but representative of the rank and file. The title of his book, The 
Wonder-working Providence of Sions Saviour in New England, is in itself 
a confession of the Puritan philosophy of history; the story of New 


go The Puritans 


England is to him a protracted evidence of the assistance of God, the 
same God who protected Israel of old, and who still works wonders 
for men by his providence—whenever they will codperate with Him 
in the right spirit. He is a slighter figure than either Winthrop or 
Bradford, and writes in a much more ornate, windy, and verbose 
style. Even at his most inflated moments he is not without a certain 
charm, however, and the zest for living which so conspicuously marked 
the writings of Elizabethan England had not yet died out in him. 

Of Cotton Mather the most remarkable fact is that one small head 
could carry all he knew. He writes as a member of the third genera- ’' 
tion in New England, the grandson of Richard Mather, the son of 
Increase, the inheriting figure in what had become the outstanding 
dynasty of ministerial rule in the colony. The deep passions. of the 
founding generation had become more regular and lukewarm in his 
day; times were changing, and the early Puritan creed was crumbling 
all about him. Though he himself contributed to the change in many 
respects, though he himself fought the more hidebound conservatives 
on the question of inoculation for smallpox, his life was generally 
motivated by an attempt to keep the hands of the clock at the same 
hour they had indicated when his grandfather had preached at Dor- 
chester. His great history, the Magnalia Christt Americana, ‘‘the great 
achievements of. Christ in America,’ was in large part designed to 
revive fading piety, as demanded in the sermon of Urian Oakes. He 
did not succeed in this objective, but he did manage to bring together 
within the covers of one Gargantuan book almost the whole account 
of Puritan thought and action in seventeenth-century America. He 
spattered his pages with his amazing erudition, and earned himself 
the description of pedant, but he also summarized a century of ex- 
perience. 


WILLIAM BRADFORD, 1590-1657 


[William Bradford was born in Austerfield, of Yorkshire yeoman 
stock; inheriting a “‘comfortable’’ sum from his father, who died in 
his childhood, he might well have grown into a substantial, solid 
farmer, had he not at the age of twelve become a serious reader of. 
the Bible and been driven by his religious convictions, in opposition 
to the wishes of his family, to join the group who met at the house 
of William Brewster in Scrooby. With John Robinson as minister, these 
persons organized a Separatist church in 1606, fled to Amsterdam 
in 1609, and then to Leyden, where Bradford supported himself as a 
fustian weaver and say worker. During these years he must have read 


History 91 


extensively in theological literature. He was a leader in the migration 
to New England and was elected Governor of the Plymouth colony 
upon the death of John Carver in April, 1621. He served in that office 
for thirty out of his remaining thirty-six years, without salary until 
1639 and thereafter for £20 a year. He exercised almost complete 
discretionary power, proved himself on every occasion shrewd, firm, 
and generous. In his old age he undertook the study of Hebrew, in 
order to see “‘the ancient oracles of God in their native beauty.” In 
the inventory of his estate there was a red waistcoat, a great silver 
“beer bowle,” and a violet cloak. He commenced writing the History 
in 1630, probably finished it about 1650. This text is from the History 
of Plymouth Plantation, ed. Worthington C. Ford (Massachusetts His- 
torical Society, Boston, 1912), 2 vols.: I, 16-18, 21-22, 24-25, 28-35, 
53-60, 149-158, 189-196, 239-246, 299-303, 362-367; II, 45-58, 161— 
164, 308-310, 342-353. For further bibliography see this edition, or 
the article by Samuel Eliot Morison in The Dictionary of American 


Biography. | 


AISTORY OF PLIMOTH PLANTATION 


HEN as by the travell, and diligence of some godly, and zealous 
W preachers, and Gods blessing on their labours; as in other places 
of the land, so in the North parts, many became inlightened by the 
word of God; and had their ignorance and sins discovered unto them, 
and begane by his grace to reforme their lives, and make conscience 
of their wayes. The worke of God was no sooner manifest in them; 
but presently they were both scoffed and scorned by the prophane 
multitude, and the ministers urged with the yoak of subscription, or 
els must be silenced; and the poore people were so vexed with ap- 
parators, and pursuants, and the comissarie courts, as truly their 
affliction was not smale; which, notwithstanding, they bore sundrie 
years with much patience, till they were occasioned (by the con- 
tinuance and encrease of these troubles, and other means which the 
Lord raised up in those days) to see further into things by the light 
of the word of God. How not only these base and beggerly ceremonies 
were unlawfull; but also that the lordly and tiranous power of the 
' prelates ought not to be submitted unto; which thus (contrary\to the 
freedome of the gospell,) would load and burden mens consciences; 
and by their compulsive power make a prophane mixture of persons, 
and things in the worship of God... . 

So many therfore (of these proffessors) as saw the evill of these 


92 The Puritans 


things, (in thes parts,) and whose harts the Lord had touched with 
heavenly zeale for his trueth; they shooke of this yoake of Antichristian 
bondage. And as the Lords free people, joyned them selves (by a 
covenant of the Lord) into a church estate, in the felowship of the 
Gospell, to walke in all his wayes, made known, or to be made known 
unto them (according to their best endeavours) whatsoever it should 
cost them, the Lord assisting them. And at it cost them something 
this ensewing historie will declare. 

But after these things; they could not long continue in any peace- | 
able condition; but were hunted and persecuted on every side, so as 
their former afflictions were but as flea-bitings in comparison of these 
which now came upon them. For some were taken and clapt up in 
prison, others had their houses besett and watcht night and day, and 
hardly escaped their hands; and the most were faine to flie and leave 
their howses and habitations, and the means of their livelehood. Yet 
' these and many other sharper things which affterward befell them, 
were no other then they looked for, and therfore were the better pre- 
pared to bear them by the assistance of Gods grace and spirite; yet 
seeing them selves thus molested, and that ther was no hope of their 
continuance ther, by a joynte consente they resolved to goe into the 
Low-Countries, wher they heard was freedome of Religion for all men; 
as also how sundrie from London, and other parts of the land, had 
been exiled and persecuted for the same cause, and were gone thither; 
and lived at Amsterdam, and in other places of the land. ... 

Being thus constrained to leave their native soyle and countrie, 
their lands and livings, and all their freinds and famillier acquaint- 
ance, it was much, and thought marvelous by many. But to goe into 
a countrie they knew not (but by hearsay) wher they must learne a 
new language, and get their livings they knew not how, it being a 
dear place, and subjecte to the misseries of warr, it was by many 
thought an adventure almost desperate, a case intolerable, and a 
misserie worse then death. Espetially seeing they were not acquainted 
with trads nor traffique (by which that countrie doth subsiste) but 
had only been used to a plaine countrie life, and the inocente trade 
of husbandrey. But these things did not dismay them (though they 
did some times trouble them) for their desires were sett on the ways 
of god, and to injoye his ordinances; but they rested on his providence, 
and knew whom they had beleeved. Yet this was not all, for though 
they could not stay, yet were they not suffered to goe, but the ports 
and havens were shut against them, so as they were faine to seeke 
secrete means of conveance, and to bribe and fee the mariners, and 


History | 93 


give exterordinarie rates for their passages. And yet were they often 
times betrayed (many of them) and both they and their goods inter- 
cepted and surprised, and therby put to great trouble and charge, of 
which I will give an instance or tow, and omitte the rest. 

Ther was a large companie of them purposed to get passage at 
Boston in Lincoln-shire, and for that end had hired a shipe wholy 
to them selves, and made agreement with the maister to be ready at 
a certaine day, and take them and their goods in, at a conveniente 
place, wher they accordingly would all attende in readines. So after 
long waiting, and large expences (though he kepte not day with them) 
yet he came at length and tooke them in, in the night. But when he 
had them and their goods abord, he betrayed them, haveing before 
hand complotted with the serchers and other officers so to doe. Who 
tooke them, and put them into open boats, and ther rifled and ran- 
saked them, searching them to their shirts for money, yea even the 
women furder then became modestie; and then caried them back 
into the towne, and made them a spectackle and wonder to the mul- 
titude, which came flocking on all sids to behould them. Being thus 
first, by the chatch-poule officers, rifled, and stripte of their money, 
books, and much other goods; they were presented to the majestrates, 
and messengers sente to informe the lords of the Counsell of them; 
and so they were commited to ward. Indeed the majestrats used them 
courteously, and shewed them what favour they could; but could not 
deliver them, till order came from the Counsell-table. But the issue 
was that after a months imprisonmente, the greatest parte were dis- 
miste, and sent to the places from whence they came; but 7. of the 
principall were still kept in prison, and bound over to the Assises. 

The nexte spring after, ther was another attempte made by some 
of these and others, to get over at an other place. And it so fell out, 
that they light of a Dutchman at Hull, having a ship of his owne 
belonging to Zealand; they made agreemente with him, and acquainted 
him with their condition, hoping to find more faithfullnes in him, 
then in the former of their owne nation; he bad them not fear, for he 
would doe well enough. He was (by appointment) to take them in 
betweene Grimsbe and Hull, wher was a large commone a good way 
distante from any towne. Now aganst the prefixed time, the women 
and children, with the goods, were sent to the place in a small barke, 
which they had hired for that end; and the men were to meete them 
by land. But it so fell out, that they were ther a day before the shipe 
came, and the sea being rough, and the women very sicke, prevailed 
with the seamen to put into a creeke hardby, wher they lay on ground 


94 by The Puritans 


at lowwater. The nexte morning the shipe came, but they were fast, 
and could not stir till aboute noone; In the mean time (the shipe 
maister, perceiving how the matter was) sente his boate to be getting 
the men abord whom he saw ready, walking aboute the shore. But 
after the first boat full was gott abord, and she was ready to goe for 
more, the m’ espied a greate company (both horse and foote) with 
bills, and gunes, and other weapons (for the countrie was raised to 
take them). The Dutch-man seeing that, swore (his countries oath), 
‘“‘sacremente’’; and having the wind faire, waiged his Ancor, hoysed 
sayles, and away. But the poore-men which were gott abord, were 
in great distress for their wives, and children, which they saw thus to 
be taken, and were left destitute of their helps; and them selves also, 
not having a cloath to shifte them with, more then they had on their 
baks, and some scarce a peney aboute them, all they had being abord 
the barke. It drew tears from their eyes, and any thing they had they 
would have given to have been a shore againe; but all in vaine, ther 
was no remedy, they must thus sadly part.... 

The rest of the men that were in greatest danger, made shift to 
escape away before the troope could surprise them; those only staying 
that best might, to be assistante unto the women. But pitifull it was 
to see the heavie case of these poore women in this distress; what 
weeping and crying on every side, some for their husbands, that were 
caried away in the ship as is before related. Others not knowing what 
should become of them, and their litle ones; others againe melted 
in teares, seeing their poore litle ones hanging aboute them, crying 
for feare, and quaking with could. Being thus aprehended, they were 
hurried from one place to another, and from one justice to another, 
till in the ende they knew not what to doe with them; for to imprison 
so many women and innocent children for no other cause (many of 
them) but that they must goe with their husbands; semed to be un- 
reasonable and all would crie out of them; and to send them home 
againe was as difficult, for they aledged (as the trueth was) they had 
no homes to goe to, for they had either sould, or otherwise disposed 
of their houses, and livings. To be shorte, after they had been thus 
turmolyed a good while, and conveyed from one constable to another, 
they were glad to be ridd of them in the end upon any termes; for 
all ‘were wearied and tired with them. Though in the mean time 
they (poore soules) indured miserie enough; and thus in the end 
necessitie forste a way for them. ... And in the end, notwithstanding 
all these stormes of oppossition, they all gatt over at length, some at 
one time and some at an other, and some in one place, and some in 


History | 95 


an other, And mete togeather againe according to their desires, with 
no small rejoycing. .. . 

After they had lived in this citie about some 11. or 12. years, (which 
is the more observable being the whole time of that famose truce be- 
tween that state and the Spaniards,) and sundrie of them were taken 
away by death; and many others begane to be well striken in years 
(the grave mistris Experience haveing taught them many things) those 
prudent governours, with sundrie of the sagest members begane both 
deeply to apprehend their present dangers, and wisely to foresee the 
future, and thinke of timly remedy. In the agitation of their thoughts, 
and much discours of things hear aboute, at length they began to 
incline to this conclusion, of remoovall to some other place. Not out 
of any newfanglednes, or other such like giddie humor, by which 
men are oftentimes transported to their great hurt, and danger. But 
for sundrie weightie and solid reasons; some of the cheefe of which 
I will hear breefly touch. And first, they saw and found by experience " 
the hardnes of the place and countrie to be such, as few in comparison 
would come to them; and fewer that would bide it out, and continew 
with them. For many that came to them, and many more that de- 
sired to be with them; could not endure that great labor and hard 
fare, with other inconveniences which they underwent and were con- 
tented with. But though they loved their persons, approved their 
cause, and honoured their sufferings, yet they left them as it weer 
- weeping, as Orpah did her mother in law Naomie; or as those Romans 
did Cato in Utica, who desired to be excused and borne with, though 
they could not all be Catoes. For many, though they desired to injoye 
the ordinances of God in their puritie, and the libertie of the gospell 
with them, yet (alass) they admitted of bondage—with deanger of 
conscience, rather than to indure these hardships; yea, some preferred, 
and chose the prisons in England, rather then this libertie in Holland, 
with these afflictions. But it was thought that if a better, and easier 
place of living, could be had, it would draw many, and take away 
these discouragments. Yea, their pastor would often say, that many 
of those who both wrote, and preached now against them, if they 
were in a place, wher they might have libertie and live comfortably, 
they would then practise as they did. 

2'v. They saw, that though the people generally, bore all these diffi- 
culties very cherfully, and with a resolute courage, being in the best, 
and strength of their years, yet old age began to steale on many of 
them, (and their great and continuall labours, with other crosses and 
sorrows, hastened it before the time) so as it was not only probably 


BB ai : The Puritans 


thought, but apparently seen, that within a few years more, they would 
be in danger to scatter (by necessities pressing them) or sinke under 
their burdens, or both. And therfore according to the devine proverb, 
that a wise man seeth the plague when it cometh, and hideth him 
selfe, Pro. 22. 3., so they like skillfull and beaten souldiers were fear- 
full, either to be intrapped or surrounded by their enimies, so as they . 
should neither be able to fight nor flie. And therfor thought it better 
to dislodge betimes to some place of better advantage and less danger, 
if any such could be found. 

Thirdly; As necessitie was a taskmaster over them, so they were’ 
forced to be such, not only to their servants (but in a sorte) to their 
dearest children; the which as it did not a litle wound the tender 
harts of many a loving father, and mother; so it produced likwise 
sundrie sad and sorowful effects. For many of their children, that 
were of best dispositions, and gracious Inclinations (haveing lernde to 
bear the yoake in their youth) and willing to bear parte of their parents 
burden, were (often times) so oppressed with their hevie labours, that 
though their minds were free and willing, yet their bodies bowed 
under the weight of the same, and became decreped in their early” 
youth; the vigor of nature being consumed in the very budd as it 
were. But that which was more lamentable, and of all sorowes most 
heavie to be borne, was that many of their children, by these occa- 
sions, and the great licentiousness of youth in that countrie, and the 
manifold temptations of the place, were drawne away by evill ex- 
amples into extravagante and dangerous courses, getting the raines 
off their neks, and departing from their parents. Some became souldiers, 
others tooke upon them farr viages by sea, and other some worse 
courses, tending to dissolutnes and the danger of their soules, to 
the great greefe of their parents and dishonour of God. So that they 
saw their posteritie would be in danger to degenerate and be cor- 
rupted. 

Lastly, (and which was not least), a great hope, and inward zeall 
they had of laying some good foundation, or (at least to make some 
way therunto) for the propagating, and advancing the gospell of the 
kingdom of Christ in those remote parts of the world; yea, though 
they should be but even as stepping-stones, unto others for the per- 
forming of so great a work. 

These, and some other like reasons, moved them to undertake this 
resolution of their removall; the which they afterward prosecuted with 
so great difficulties, as by the sequell will appeare. 

The place they had thoughts on, was some of those vast and un- 


History : 97 


peopled countries of America, which are frutfull, and fitt for habita- 
tion; being devoyd of all civill inhabitants; wher ther are only salvage, 
and brutish men, which range up and downe, litle otherwise then the 
wild beasts of the same.. This proposition being made publike, and 
coming to the scaning of all; it raised many variable opinions amongst 
men, and caused many fears, and doubts amongst them selves. Some 
from their reasons, and hopes conceived, laboured to stirr up and in- 
courage the rest to undertake, and prosecute the same; others againe 
out of their fears, objected against it, and sought to diverte from it; 
aledging many things, and those neither unreasonable, nor unprob- 
able. As that it was a great designe, and subjecte to many unconceiv- 
able perills, and dangers; as, besids the casulties of the seas (which 
none can be freed from) the length of the vioage was such, as the 
weake bodys of women and other persons worne out with age and 
traville (as many of them were) could never be able to endure. And 
yet if they should, the miseries of the land, which they should be ex- 
posed unto, would be to hard to be borne; and lickly, some, or all 
of them togeither, to consume, and utterly to ruinate them. For ther 
they should be liable to famine, and nakednes, and the wante in a 
maner of all things. The chang of aire, diate, and drinking of water, 
would infecte their bodies with sore sickneses, and greevous diseases. 
And also those which should escape or overcome these difficulties, 
should yett be in continuall danger of the salvage people; who are 
cruell, barbarous, and most trecherous, being most furious in their 
rage, and merciles wher they overcome; not being contente only to 
kill, and take away life, but delight to tormente men in the most bloodie 
manner that may be; fleaing some alive with the shells of fishes, cutting 
of the members, and joynts of others by peesmeale, and broiling on 
the coles, eate the collops of their flesh in their sight whilst they live; 
with other cruelties horrible to be related. And surely it could not 
be thought but the very hearing of these things could not but move 
the very bowels of men to grate within them, and make the weake 
to quake, and tremble. It was furder objected, that it would require 
greater summes of money to furnish such a voiage (and to fitt them 
with necessaries) then their consumed estats would amounte too; and 
yett they must as well looke to be seconded with supplies, as presently 
to be transported. Also many presidents of ill success, and lamentable 
misseries befalne others, in the like designes, were easie to be found, 
and not forgotten to be aledged. Besides their owne experience, in 
their former troubles, and hardships in their removall into Holand; 
and how hard a thing it was for them to live in that strange place, 


98 The Puritans 


though it was a neighbour countrie, and a civill and rich comone 
wealth. | 

It was answered, that all great, and honourable actions, are accom- 
panied with great difficulties; and must be both enterprised, and over- 
come with answerable courages. It was granted the dangers were“ 
great, but not desperate; the difficulties were many, but not invin- 
cible. For though their were many of them likly, yet they were not 
cartaine; it might be sundrie of the things feared might never befale; 
others by providente care and the use of good means, might in a 
great measure be prevented; and all of them (through the help of 
God) by fortitude, and patience, might either be borne, or overcome. 
True it was, that such atempts were not to be made and undertaken 
without good ground, and reason; not rashly, or lightly as many have 
done for curiositie, or hope of gaine, etc. But their condition was not 
ordinarie; their ends were good and honourable; their calling lawfull, 
and urgente; and therfore they might expecte the blessing of God in 
their proceding. Yea, though they should loose their lives in this ac- 
tion, yet might they have comforte in the same, and their endeavors 
would be honourable. . . . 

These troubls being blowne over, and now all being compacte to- 
geather in one shipe, they put to sea againe with a prosperus winde, 
which continued diverce days togeather, which was some incourag- 
mente unto them; yet according to the usuall maner many were 
afflicted with seasicknes. And I may not omite hear a spetiall worke 
of Gods providence. ‘Ther was a proud and very profane yonge man, 
one of the sea-men, of a lustie, able body, which made him the more 
hauty; he would allway be contemning the poore people in their 
sicknes, and cursing them dayly with greevous execrations, and did 
not let to tell them, that he hoped to help to cast halfe of them over 
board before they came to their jurneys end, and to make mery with 
what they had; and if he were by any gently reproved, he would curse 
and swear most bitterly. But it plased God before they came halfe 
seas over, to smite this yong man with a greeveous disease, of which * 
he dyed in a desperate maner, and so was him selfe the first that was 
throwne overbord. Thus his curses light on his owne head; and it 
was an astonishmente to all his fellows, for they noted it to be the 
just hand of God upon him. 

After they had injoyed faire winds and weather for a season, they 
were incountred many times with crosse winds, and mette with many 
feirce stormes, with which the shipe was shroudly shaken, and her 
upper works made very leakie; and one of the maine beames in the 


History 99 


midd ships was bowed and craked, which put them in some fear 
that the shipe could not be able to performe the vioage. So some of 
the cheefe of the company, perceiveing the mariners to feare the suffi- 
siencie of the shipe, as appeared by their mutterings, they entred into 
serious consulltation with the m*™ and other officers of the ship, to 
consider in time of the danger; and rather to returne then to cast 
them selves into a desperate and inevitable perill. And truly ther was 
great distraction and differance of opinion amongst the mariners them 
selves; faine would they doe what could be done for their wages sake, 
(being now halfe the seas over,) and on the other hand they were 
loath to hazard their lives too desperately. But in examening of all 
opinions, the m* and others affirmed they knew the ship to be stronge 
and firme under water; and for the buckling of the maine beame, 
ther was a great iron scrue the passengers brought out of Holland, 
which would raise the beame into his place; the which being done, 
the carpenter and m’ affirmed that with a post put under it, set firme 
in the lower deck, and otherways bounde, he would make it sufficiente. 
And as for the decks and uper workes they would calke them as well 
as they could, and though with the workeing of the ship they would 
not longe keepe stanch, yet ther would otherwise be no great danger, 
if they did not overpress her with sails. So they commited them selves 
to the will of God, and resolved to proseede. In sundrie of these 
stormes the winds were so feirce, and the seas so high, as they could 
not beare a knote of saile, but were forced to hull, for diverce days 
togither. And in one of them, as they thus lay at hull, in a mighty 
storme, a lustie yonge man (called John Howland) coming upon some 
occasion above the grattings, was, with a seele of the shipe throwne 
into [the] sea; but it pleased God that he caught hould of the top-~ 
saile halliards, which hunge over board, and rane out at length; yet 
he held his hould (though he was sundrie fadomes under water) till 
he was hald up by the same rope to the brime of the water, and then 
with a boat hooke and other means got into the shipe againe, and his 
life saved; and though he was something ill with it, yet he lived many 
years after, and became a profitable member both in church and 
commone wealthe. In all this viage ther died but one of the passengers, 
which was William Butten, a youth, servant to Samuell Fuller, when 
they drew near the coast. But to omite other things, (that I may be 
breefe,) after longe beating at sea they fell with that land which is 
called Cape Cod; the which being made and certainly knowne to be 
it, they were not a litle joyfull. After some deliberation had amongst 
them selves and with the mt of the ship, they tacked aboute and re- 


we 
‘ 


100 The Puritans 


solved to stande for the southward (the wind and weather being faire) 
to finde some place aboute Hudsons river for their habitation. But 
after they had sailed that course aboute halfe the day, they fell amongst 
deangerous shoulds and roring breakers, and they were so farr in- 
tangled ther with as they conceived them selves in great danger; and 
the wind shrinking upon them withall, they resolved to bear up againe 
for the Cape, and thought them selves hapy to gett out of those dangers 
before night overtooke them, as by Gods providence they did. And the 
next day they gott into the Cape-harbor wher they ridd in saftie. A 
word or too by the way of this cape; it was thus first named by Capten: 
Gosnole and his company, An®: 1602, and after by Capten Smith 
was caled Cape James; but it retains the former name amongst seamen. 
Also that pointe which first shewed those dangerous shoulds unto them, 
they called Pointe Care, and Tuckers Terrour; but the French and 
Dutch to this day call it Malabarr, by reason of those perilous shoulds, 
and the losses they have suffered their. 

Being thus arived in a good harbor and brought safe to land, they 
fell upon their knees and blessed the God of heaven, who had brought 
them over the vast and furious ocean, and delivered them from all 
the periles and miseries therof, againe to set their feete on the firme 
and stable earth, their proper elemente. And no marvell if they were 
thus joyefull, seeing wise Seneca was so affected with sailing a few 
miles on the coast of his owne Italy; as he affirmed, that he had rather 
remaine twentie years on his way by land, then pass by sea to any 
place in a short time; so tedious and dreadfull was the same unto him. 

But hear I cannot but stay and make a pause, and stand half amased 
at this poore peoples presente condition; and so I thinke will the reader 
too, when he well considers the same. Being thus passed the vast ocean, 
and a sea of troubles before in their preparation (as may be remembred 
by that which wente before), they had now no freinds to wellcome 
them, nor inns to entertaine or refresh their weatherbeaten bodys, no 
houses or much less townes to repaire too, to seeke for succoure. It 
is recorded in scripture as a mercie to the apostle and his shipwraked 
company, that the barbarians shewed them no smale kindnes in re- 
freshing them, but these savage barbarians, when they mette with 
them (as after will appeare) were readier to fill their sids full of arrows 
then otherwise. And for the season it was winter, and they that know 
the winters of that cuntrie know them to be sharp and violent, and 
subjecte to cruell and feirce stormes, deangerous to travill to known 
places, much more to serch an unknown coast. Besides, what could 
they see but a hidious and desolate wildernes, full of wild beasts and 


| 


History 101 


willd men? and what multituds ther might be of them they knew not. 
Nether could they, as it were, goe up to the tope of Pisgah, to vew from 
this willdernes a more goodly cuntrie to feed their hops; for which 
way soever they turnd their eys (save upward to the heavens) they 
could have litle solace or content in respecte of any outward objects. 
For summer being done, all things stand upon them with a wether- 
beaten face; and the whole countrie, full of woods and thickets, repre- 
sented a wild and savage heiw. If they looked behind them, ther was 
the mighty ocean which they had passed, and was now as a maine 
barr and goulfe to seperate them from all the civill parts of the world. 
If it be said they had a ship to sucour them, it is trew; but what heard 
they daly from the m™ and company? but that with speede they should 
looke out a place with their shallop, wher they would be at some near 
distance; for the season was shuch as he would not stirr from thence 
till a safe harbor was discovered by them wher they would be, and 
he might goe without danger; and that victells consumed apace, but 
he must and would keepe sufficient for them selves and their returne. 
Yea, it was muttered by some, that if they gott not a place in time, 
they would turne them and their goods ashore and leave them. Let 
it also be considred what weake hopes of supply and succoure they 
left behinde them, that might bear up their minds in this sade condi- 
tion and trialls they were under; and they could not but be very smale. 
It is true, indeed, the affections and love of their brethren at Leyden 


was cordiall and entire towards them, but they had litle power to 


help them, or them selves; and how the case stode betweene them and 
the marchants at their coming away, hath allready been declared. 
What could now sustaine them but the spirite of God and his grace? 
May not and ought not the children of these fathers rightly say: Our 
faithers were Englishmen which came over this great ocean, and were ready to 
perish in this willdernes; but they cried unto the Lord, and he heard their voyee, 
and looked on their adversitie, etc. Let them therfore praise the Lord, because 
he 1s good, and his mercies, endure for ever. Yea, let them which have been re- 
deemed of the Lord, shew how he hath delivered them from the hand of the op- 
pressour. When they wandered in the deserte willdernes out of the way, and 
found no citie to dwell in, both hungrie, and thirstie, their sowle was over- 
whelmed in them. Let them confess before the Lord his loving kindnes, and his 


| _wonderfull works before the sons of men... . 


[1620] I shall a litle returne backe and begine with a combination 
made by them before they came ashore, being the first foundation 
of their govermente in this place; occasioned partly by the discontented 
and mutinous speeches that some of the strangers amongst them had 


102 ary The Puritans 


let fall from them in the ship; That when they came a shore they would 
use their owne libertie; for none had power to command them, the 
patente they had being for Virginia, and not for New-england, which 
belonged to an other Goverment, with which the Virginia Company 
had nothing to doe. And partly that shuch an acte by them done 
(this their condition considered) might be as firme as any patent, and - 
in some respects more sure. 
The forme was as followeth. 


In the name of God, Amen. We whose names are under-writen, 
the loyall subjects of our dread soveraigne Lord, King James, by the 
grace of God, of Great Britaine, Franc, and Ireland king, defender 
of the faith, etc., haveing undertaken, for the glorie of God, and ad- 
vancemente of the Christian faith, and honour of our king and countrie, 
a voyage to plant the first colonie in the Northerne parts of Virginia, 
doe by these presents solemnly and mutualy in the presence of God, 
and one of another, covenant and combine our selves togeather into 
a civill body politick, for our better ordering and preservation and 
furtherance of the ends aforesaid; and by vertue hearof to enacte, — 
constitute, and frame such just and equall lawes, ordinances, acts, 
constitutions, and offices, from time to time, as shall be thought most 
meete and convenient for the generall good of the Colonie, unto which 
we promise all due submission and obedience. In witnes wherof we 
have hereunder subscribed our names at Cap-Codd the 11. of Novem- 
ber, in the year of the raigne of our soveraigne lord, King James, 
of England, France, and Ireland the eighteenth, and of Scotland the 
fiftie fourth. An°: Dom. 1620. 


After this they chose, or rather confirmed, Mr. John Carver (a man 
godly and well approved amongst them) their Governour for that year. 
And after they had provided a place for their goods, or comone store, 
(which were long in unlading for want of boats, foulnes of winter 
weather, and sicknes of diverce,) and begune some small cottages for 
their habitation, as time would admitte, they mette and consulted of 
lawes and orders, both for their civill and military Govermente, as 
the necessitie of their condition did require, still adding therunto as 
urgent occasion in severall times, and as cases did require. 

In these hard and difficulte beginings they found some discontents 
and murmurings arise amongst some, and mutinous speeches and 
carriags in other; but they were soone quelled and overcome by the 
wisdome, patience, and just and equall carrage of things by the Gov* 
and better part, which clave faithfully togeather in the maine. But 
that which was most sadd and lamentable was, that in 2. or 3. moneths 


History 103 


time halfe of their company dyed, espetialy in Jan: and February, 
being the depth of.winter, and wanting houses and other comforts; 
being infected with the scurvie and other diseases, which this long 
vioage and their inacomodate condition had brought upon them; so 
as ther dyed some times 2. or 3. of a day, in the foresaid time; that 
of 100. and odd persons, scarce 50. remained. And of these in the 
time of most distres, ther was but 6. or 7. sound persons, who, to their 
great comendations be it spoken, spared no pains, night nor day, but 
with abundance of toyle and hazard of their owne health, fetched 
them woode, made them fires, drest them meat, made their beads, 
washed their lothsome cloaths, cloathed and uncloathed them; in a 
word, did all the homly and necessarie offices for them which dainty 
and quesie stomacks cannot endure to hear named; and all this willingly 
and cherfully, without any grudging in the least, shewing herein their 
true love unto their freinds and bretheren. rote example and worthy 
to be remembred. Tow of these 7. were Mr. William Brewster, ther 
reverend Elder, and Myles Standish, ther Captein and military com- 
ander, unto whom my selfe, and many others, were much beholden 
in our low and sicke condition. And yet the Lord so upheld these’ 
persons, as in this generall calamity they were not at all infected 
either with sicknes, or lamnes. And what I have said of these, I may 
say of many others who dyed in this generall vissitation, and others 

yet living, that whilst they had health, yea, or any strength continuing, 
they were not wanting to any that had need of them. And I doute 
not but their recompence is with the Lord... . 

[1621] After the departure of this ship, [the Fortune] (which stayed 
not above 14. days,) the Gove’ and his assistante haveing disposed 
these late commers into severall families, as they best could, tooke an 
exacte accounte of all their provissions in store, and proportioned the 
same to the number of persons, and found that it would not hould’ 
out above 6. months at halfe alowance, and hardly that. And they 
could not well give less this winter time till fish came in againe. So 
they were presently put to half alowance, one as well as an other, which 
begane to be hard, but they bore it patiently under hope of supply. 

Soone after this ships departure, the great people of the Narigansets, 
in a braving maner, sente a messenger unto them with a bundl of 
arrows tyed aboute with a great sneak-skine; which their interpretours 
tould them was a threatening and a chaleng. Upon which the Gov’, 
with the advice of others sente them a round answere, that if they 
had rather have warre then peace, they might begine when they would; 
they had done them no wrong, neither did they fear them, or should 


104 The Puritans 


they find them unprovided. And by another messenger sente the 
sneake-skine back with bulits in it; but they would not receive it, 
but sent it back againe. But these things I doe but mention, because 
they are more at large allready put forth in printe, by Mr. Winslow, 
at the requeste of some freinds. And it is like the reason was their 
owne ambition, who, (since the death of so many of the Indeans,) 
thought to dominire and lord it over the rest, and conceived the Eng- 
lish would be a barr in their way, and saw that Massasoyt took sheilter 
allready under their wings. 

But this made them the more carefully to looke to them selves, so 
as they agreed to inclose their dwellings with a good strong pale, and 
make flankers in convenient places, with gates to shute, which were 
every night locked, and a watch kept and when neede required ther 
was also warding in the day time. And the company was by the Cap- 
taine and the Gov" advise, devided into 4. squadrons, and every one 
had ther quarter apoynted them, unto which they were to repaire 
upon any suddane alarme. And if ther should be any crie of fire, a 
company were appointed for a gard, with muskets, whilst others 
quenchet the same, to prevent Indean treachery. This was accom- 
plished very cherfully, and the towne impayled round by the begining 
of March, in which evry family had a prety garden plote secured. 
And herewith I shall end this year. Only I shall remember one pas- 
sage more, rather of mirth then of waight. One the day called Chris- 
masday, the Gov" caled them out to worke, (as was used,) but the 
most of this new-company excused them selves and said it wente 
against their consciences to work on that day. So the Gov" tould them 
that if they made it mater of conscience, he would spare them till 
they were better informed. So he led-away the rest and left them; 
but when they came home at noone from their worke, he found them 
in the streete at play, openly; some pitching the barr and some at 
stoole-ball, and shuch like sports. So he went to them, and tooke away 
their implements, and tould them that was against his conscience, 
that they should play and others worke. If they made the keeping 
of it mater of devotion, let them kepe their houses, but ther should 
be no gameing or revelling in the streets. Since which time nothing 
hath been atempted that way, at least openly. ... 

[1623] They begane to thinke how they might raise as much corne 
as they could, and obtaine a beter crope then they had done, that 
they might not still thus languish in miserie. At length, after much 
debate of things, the Gov’ (with the advise of the cheefest amongest 
them) gave way that they should set corne every man for his owne 


History Say 


perticuler, and in that regard trust to them selves; in all other things 
to goe on in the generall way as before. And'so assigned to every family 
a parcell of land, according to the proportion of their number for 
that end, only for present use (but made no devission for inheritance), 
and ranged all boys and youth under some familie. This had very 
good success; for it made all hands very industrious, so as much more 
corne was planted then other waise would have bene by any means 
the Gov’ or any other could use, and saved him a great deall of trouble, 
and gave farr better contente. ‘The women now wente willingly into 
the feild, and tooke their litle-ons with them to set corne, which before 
would aledg weaknes, and inabilitie; whom to have compelled would 
have bene thought great tiranie and oppression. 

The experience that was had in this commone course and condi- 
tion, tried sundrie years, and that amongst godly and sober men, 
may well evince the vanitie of that conceite of Platos and other an- 
cients, applauded by some of later times;—that the taking away of 
propertie, and bringing in communitie into a comone wealth, would 
make them happy and florishing; as if they were wiser then God. For 
this comunitie (so farr as it was) was found to breed much confusion 
and discontent, and retard much imployment that would have been 
to their benefite and comforte.. For the yong-men that were most 
able and fitte for labour and service did repine that they should spend 
_ their time and streingth to worke for other mens wives and children, 
with out any recompence. The strong, or man of parts, had no more 
in devission of victails and cloaths, then he that was weake and not 
able to doe a quarter the other could; this was thought injuestice. 
The aged and graver men to be ranked and equalised in labours, 
and victails, cloaths, etc., with the meaner and yonger sorte, thought 
it some indignite and disrespect unto them. And for mens wives to 
be commanded to doe servise for other men, as dresing their meate, 
washing their cloaths, etc., they deemd it a kind of slaverie, neither 
could many husbands well brooke it. Upon the poynte all being to 
have alike, and all to doe alike, they thought them selves in the like 
condition, and one as good as another; and so, if it did not cut of 
those relations that God hath set amongest men, yet it did at least 
much diminish and take of the mutuall respects that should be pre- 
served amongst them. And would have bene worse if they had been 
men of another condition. Let none objecte this is men’s corruption, 
and nothing to the course it selfe. I answer, seeing all men have 
this corruption in them, God in his wisdome saw another course fiter 
for them. ... 


106 The Puritans 


[1624] With the former letter write by Mr. Sherley, there were 
sente sundrie objections concerning which he thus writeth. ‘“These 
are the cheefe objections which they that are now returned make 
against you and the countrie. I pray you consider them, and answer 
them by the first conveniencie.”’ These objections were made by some 
of those that came over on their perticuler and were returned home, 
as is before mentioned, and were of the same suite with those that 
this other letter mentions. 

I shall here set them downe, with the answers then made unto them, 
and sent over at the returne of this ship; which did so confound the 
objecters, as some confessed their falte, and others deneyed what they 
had said, and eate their words, and some others of them have since 
come over againe and heere lived to convince them selves sufficiently, 
both in their owne and other mens judgments. 

1. obj. was diversitie aboute Religion. Ans: We know no such 
matter, for here was never any controversie or opposition, either pub- 
licke or private, (to our knowledg,) since we came. 

2. ob: Neglecte of familie duties, one the Lords day. 

Ans. We allow no such thing, but blame it in our selves and others; 
and they that thus reporte it, should have shewed their Christian love 
the more if they had in love tould the offenders of it, rather then thus 
to reproach them behind their baks. But (to say no more) we wish 
them selves had given better example. ... 

5. ob: Many of the perticuler members of the plantation will not 
work for the generall. 

Ans: This allso is not wholy true; for though some doe it not will- 
ingly, and other not honestly, yet all doe it; and he that doth worst 
gets his owne foode and something besids. But we will not excuse 
them, but labour to reforme them the best we cane, or else to quitte 
the plantation of them. 

6. ob: The water is not wholsome. 

Ans: If they mean, not so wholsome as the good beere and wine in 
London, (which they so dearly love,) we will not dispute with them; _ 
but els, for water, it is as good as any in the world, (for ought we 
knowe,) and it is wholsome enough to us that can be contente ther- 
with. 

7. ob: The ground is barren and doth bear no grasse. 

Ans: It is hear (as in all places) some better and some worse; and 
if they well consider their words, in England they shall not find such 
grasse in them, as in their feelds and meadows. The catle find grasse, 
for they are as fatt as need be; we wish we had but one for every hun-. 


History 107 


dred that hear is grase to keep. Indeed, this objection, as some other. 
are ridiculous to all here which see and know the contrary. 

8. ob: The fish will not take salt to keepe sweete. 

Ans: This is as true as that which was written, that ther is scarce 
a foule to be seene or a fish to be taken. Things likly to be true ina 
cuntrie wher so many sayle of ships come yearly a fishing; they might 
as well say, there can no aile or beere in London be kept from sowering. 

g. ob: Many of them are theevish and steale on from an other. 

Ans: Would London had been free from that crime, then we should 
not have been trobled with these here; it is well knowne sundrie have 
smarted well for it, and so are the rest like to doe, if they be taken. 

10. ob: The countrie is anoyed with foxes and woules. 

Ans: So are many other good cuntries too; but poyson, traps, and 
other such means will help to destroy them. 

11. ob: The Dutch are planted nere Hudsons Bay, and are likely 
to overthrow the trade. 

Ans: They will come and plante in these parts, also, if we and 
others doe not, but goe home and leave it to them. We rather com- 
mend them, then condemne them for it. 

12. ob: The people are much anoyed with muskeetoes. 

Ans: They are too delicate and unfitte to begine new-plantations 
and collonies, that cannot enduer the biting of a muskeeto; we would 
wish such to keepe at home till at least they be muskeeto proofe. Yet 
this place is as free as any, and experience teacheth that the more 
the land is tild, and the woods cut downe, the fewer ther will be, 
and in the end scarse any at all.... 

[1628] Aboute some 3. or 4. years before this tire, ther came over 
one Captaine Wolastone, (a man of pretie parts,) and with him 3. 
or 4. more of some eminencie, who brought with them a great many 
servants, with provissions and other implments for to begine a plan- 
tation; and pitched them selves in a place within the Massachusets, 
which they called, after their Captains name, Mount-Wollaston. 
Amongst whom was one Mr. Morton, who, it should seeme, had 
some small adventure (of his owne or other mens) amongst them; 
but had litle respecte amongst them, and was sleghted by the meanest 
servants. Haveing continued ther some time, and not finding things 
to answer their expectations, nor profite to arise as they looked for, 
Captaine Wollaston takes a great part of the sarvants, and transports 
them to Virginia, wher he puts them of at good rates, selling their 
time to other men; and writs back to one Mr. Rassdall, one of his 
cheefe partners, and accounted their marchant, to bring another parte 


108 . The Puritans 


of them to Verginia likewise, intending to put them of ther as he had 
done the rest. And he, with the consente of the said Rasdall, appoynted 
one Fitcher to be his Livetenante, and governe the remaines of the 
plantation, till he or Rasdall returned to take further order theraboute. 
But this Morton abovesaid, haveing more craft then honestie, (who 
had been a kind of petiefogger, of Furnefells Inne,) in the others ab- _ 
sence, watches an oppertunitie, (commons being but hard amongst 
them,) and gott some strong drinck and other junkats, and made 
them a feast; and after they were merie, he begane to tell them, he 
would give them good counsell. You see (saith he) that many of your 
fellows are carried to Virginia; and if you stay till this Rasdall returne, 
you will also be carried away and sould for slaves with the rest. Ther- 
fore I would advise you to thruste out this Levetenant Fitcher; and 
I, having a parte in the plantation, will receive you as my partners 
and consociats; so may you be free from service, and we will converse, 
trad, plante, and live togeather as equalls, and supporte and protecte 
one another, or to like effecte. This counsell was easily received; so 
they tooke oppertunitie, and thrust Levetenante Fitcher out a dores, 
and would suffer him to come no more amongst them, but forct him 
to seeke bread to eate, and other releefe from his neigbours, till he 
could gett passage for England. After this they fell to great licen- 
ciousnes, and led a dissolute life, powering out them selves into all 
profanenes. And Morton became lord of misrule, and maintained (as 
it were) a schoole of Athisme. And after they had gott some good 
into their hands, and gott much by trading with the Indeans, they 
spent it as vainly, in quaffing and drinking both wine and strong 
waters in great exsess, and, as some reported, 10 Ji. worth in a morning. 
They allso set up a Maypole, drinking and dancing aboute it many 
days togeather, inviting the Indean women, for their consorts, dancing 
and frisking togither, (like so many fairies, or furies rather,) and worse 
practises. As if they had anew revived and celebrated the feasts of the 
Roman Goddes Flora, or the beasly practieses of the madd Bac- 
chinalians. Morton likwise (to shew his poetrie) composed sundry 
rimes and verses, some tending to lasciviousnes, and others to the 
detraction and scandall of some persons, which he affixed to this idle 
or idol May-polle. They chainged allso the name of their place, and 
in stead of calling it Mounte Wollaston, they call it Meriemounte, as 
if this joylity would have lasted ever. But this continued not long, 
for after Morton was sent for England, (as follows to be declared,) 
shortly after came over that worthy gentlman, Mr. John Indecott, 
who brought over a patent under the broad seall, for the govermente 


History 109 


of the Massachusets, who visiting those parts caused that May-polle 
to be cutt downe, and rebuked them for their profannes, and ad- 
monished them to looke ther should be better walking; so they now, 
or others, changed the name of their place againe, and called it 
Mounte-Dagon. 

Now to maintaine this riotous prodigallitie and profuse excess, 
Morton, thinking him selfe lawless, and hearing what gaine the French 
and fishermen made by trading of peeces, powder, and shotte to the 
Indeans, he, as the head of this consortship, begane the practise of 
the same in these parts; and first he taught them how to use them, 
to charge, and discharg, and what proportion of powder to give the 
peece, according to the sise or bignes of the same; and what shotte 
to use for foule, and what for deare. And having thus instructed them, 
he imployed some of them to hunte and fowle for him, so as they be- 
came farr more active in that imploymente then any of the English, 
by reason of ther swiftnes of foote, and nimblnes of body, being also 
quick-sighted, and by continuall exercise well knowing the hants of 
all sorts of game. So as when they saw the execution that a peece 
would doe, and the benefite that might come by the same, they be- 
came madd, as it were, after them, and would not stick to give any 
prise they could attaine too for them; accounting their bowes and 
arrowes but bables in comparison of them... . 

This Morton having thus taught them the use of peeces, he sould 
_ them all he could spare; and he and his consorts detirmined to send 
for many out of England, and had by some of the ships sente for above 
a score. The which being knowne, and his neigbours meeting the In- 
deans in the woods armed with guns in this sorte, it was a terrour 
unto them, who lived straglingly, and were of no strenght in any 
place. And other places (though more remote) saw this muischeefe 
would quictly spread over all, if not prevented. Besides, they saw 
they should keep no servants, for Morton would entertaine any, how 
vile soever, and all the scume of the countrie, or any discontents, 
would flock to him from all places, if this nest was not broken; and 
they should stand in more fear of their lives and goods (in short time) 
from this wicked and deboste crue, then from the salvages them selves. 

So sundrie of the cheefe of the stragling plantations, meeting to- 
gither, agreed by mutuall consente to sollissite those of Plimoth (who 
were then of more strength then them all) to joyne with them, to 
prevente the further grouth of this mischeefe, and suppress Morton 
and his consortes’ before they grewe to further head and strength. 
Those that joyned in this acction (and after contributed to the charge 


110 | The Puritans 


of sending him for England) were from’ Pascataway, Namkeake, 
Winisimett, Weesagascusett, Natasco, and other places wher any Eng- 
lish were seated. Those of Plimoth being thus sought too by their 
messengers and letters, and waying both their reasons, and the com- 
mone danger, were willing to afford them their help; though them 
selves had least cause of fear or hurte. So, to be short, they first re- 
solved joyntly to write to him, and in a freindly and neigborly way 
to admonish him to forbear these courses, and sent a messenger with 
their letters to bring his answer. But he was so highe as he scorned 
all advise, and asked who had to:doe with him; he had and would 
trade peeces with the Indeans in dispite of all, with many other 
scurillous termes full of disdaine. ‘They sente to him a second time, 
and bad him be better advised, and more temperate in his termes, 
for the countrie could not beare the injure he did; it was against 
their comone saftie, and against the king’s proclamation. He answerd 
in high terms as before, and that the kings proclaimation was no law; 
demanding what penaltie was upon it. It was answered, more then 
he could bear, his majesties displeasure. But insolently he persisted, 
and said the king was dead and his displeasure with him, and many 
the like things; and threatened withall that if any came to molest 
him, let them looke to them selves, for he would prepare for them. 
Upon which they saw ther was no way but to take him by force; 
and having so farr proceeded, now to give over would make him farr 
more hautie and insolente. So they mutually resolved to proceed, and 
obtained of the Gov’ of Plimoth to send Captaine Standish, and some va 
other aide with him, to take Morton by force. The which accordingly | 
was done; but they found him to stand stifly in his defence, having 
made fast his dors, armed his consorts, set diverse dishes of powder 
and bullets ready on the table; and if they had not been over armed 
with drinke, more hurt might have been done. They sommaned him 
to yeeld, but he kept his house, and they could gett nothing but 
scofes and scorns from him; but at length, fearing they would doe 
some violence to the house, he and some of his crue came out, but not 
to yeeld, but to shoote; but they were so steeld with drinke as their 
peeces were to heavie for them; him selfe with a carbine (over charged 
and allmost halfe fild with powder and shote, as was after found) had 
thought to have shot Captaine Standish; but he stept to him, and put 
by his peece, and tooke him. Neither was ther any hurte done to any ~ 
of either side, save that one was so drunke that he rane his owne nose ” 
upon the pointe of a sword that one held before him as he entred 
the house; but he lost but a litle of his hott blood. Morton they brought 


History 111 
away to Plimoth, wher he was kepte, till a ship went from the Ie of 
Shols for England, with which he was sente to the Counsell of New- 
England; and letters writen to give them information of his course 
and cariage; and also one was sent at their commone charge to in- 
forme their Ho™ more perticulerly, and to prosecute against him. But 
he foold of the messenger, after he was gone from hence, and though 
he wente for England, yet nothing was done to him, not so much as 
rebukte, for ought was heard; but returned the nexte year. Some of 
the worst of the company were disperst, and some of the more modest 
kepte the house till he should be heard from. But I have been too 
long about so unworthy a person, and bad a cause... . 

[1633] Mr. Roger Williams (a man godly and zealous, having many 
precious parts, but very unsettled in judgmente) came over first to 
the Massachusets, but upon some discontente left that place, and came 
hither, (wher he was friendly entertained, according to their poore 
abilitie,) and exercised his gifts amongst them, and after some time 
was admitted a member of the church; and his teaching well ap- 
prooved, for the benefite wherof I still blese God, and am thankfull 
to him, even for his sharpest admonitions and reproufs, so farr as 
they agreed with truth. He this year begane to fall into some strang 
oppinions, and from opinion to practise; which caused some contro- 
versie betweene the church and him, and in the end some discontente 
on his parte, by occasion wherof he left them some thing abruptly. 
Yet after wards sued for his dismission to the church of Salem, which - 
was granted, with some caution to them concerning him, and what 
care they ought to have of him. But he soone fell into more things 
ther, both to their and the goverments troble and disturbance. I 
shall not need to name perticulers, they are too well knowen now to 
all, though for a time the church here wente under some hard censure 
by his occasion, from some that afterwards smarted them selves. But 
he is to be pitied, and prayed for, and so I shall leave the matter, 
and desire the Lord to shew him his errors, and reduse him into the 
way of truth, and give him a setled judgment and constancie in the 
same; for I hope he belongs to the Lord, and that he will shew him 
Tercien:. i: 

[1642] Marvilous it may be to see and consider how some kind of 
wickednes did grow and breake forth here, in a land wher the same 
was so much witnesed against, and so narrowly looked unto, and 
severly punished when it was knowne; as in no place more, or so much, 
‘that I have known or heard of; insomuch as they have been somewhat 
censured, even by moderate and good men, for their severitie in punish- 


112 | The Puritans 


ments. And yet all this could not suppress the breaking out of sundrie 
notorious sins, (as this year, besids other, gives us too many sad presi- 
dents and instances,) espetially drunkennes and unclainnes; not only 
incontinencie betweene persons unmaried, for which many both men 
and women have been punished sharply enough, but some maried 
persons allso. But that which is worse, even sodomie and bugerie, 
(things fearfull to name,) have broak forth in this land, oftener then 
once. I say it may justly be marveled at, and cause us to fear and 
tremble at the consideration of our corrupte natures, which are so 
hardly bridled, subdued, and mortified; nay, cannot by any other 
means but the powerfull worke and grace of Gods spirite. But (besids _ 
this) one reason may be, that the Divell may carrie a greater spite. 
against the churches of Christ and the gospell hear, by how much the 
more they indeaour to preserve holynes and puritie amongst them, 
and strictly punisheth the contrary when it ariseth either in church 
or comone wealth; that he might cast a blemishe and staine upon 
them in the eyes of [the] world, who use to be rash in judgmente. I 
would rather thinke thus, then that Satane hath more power in these 
heathen lands, as som have thought, then in more Christian nations, 
espetially over Gods servants in them. 

2. An other reason may be, that it may be in this case as it is with 
waters when their streames are stopped or dammed up, when they 
gett passage they flow with more violence, and make more noys and 
disturbance, then when they are suffered to rune quietly in their owne 
chanels. So wikednes being here more stopped by strict laws, and the 
same more nerly looked unto, so as it cannot rune in a comone road 
of liberty as it would, and is inclined, it searches every wher, and at 
last breaks out wher it getts vente. 

3. A third reason may be, hear (as I am verily perswaded) is not 
more evills in this kind, nor nothing nere so many by proportion, as 
in other places; but they are here more discoverd and seen, and made 
publick by due serch, inquisition, and due punishment; for the churches 
looke narrowly to their members, and the magistrats over all, more’ 
strictly then in other places. Besids, here the people are but few in 
comparison of other places, which are full and populous, and lye 
hid, as it were, in a wood or thickett, and many horrible evills by that 
means are never seen nor knowne; wheras hear, they are, as it were, 
brought into the light, and set in the plaine feeld, or rather on a hill, 
made conspicuous to the veiw ofall. ... 

[1643] I am to begine this year whith that which was a mater of 
great saddnes and mourning unto them all. Aboute the 18. of Aprill 


History 113 


dyed their Reve? Elder, and my dear and loving friend, Mr. William 
Brewster; a man that had done and suffered much for the Lord Jesus 
and the gospells sake, and had bore his parte in well and woe with 
this poore persecuted church above 36. years in England, Holand, 
and in this wildernes, and done the Lord and them faithfull service 
in his place and calling. And notwithstanding the many troubls and 
sorrows he passed throw, the Lord upheld him to a great age. He 
was nere fourskore years of age (if not all out) when he dyed. He had 
this blesing added by the Lord to all the rest, to dye in his bed, in 
peace, amongst the mids of his freinds, who mourned and wepte over 
him, and ministered what help and comforte they could unto him, 
and he againe recomforted them whilst he could. His sicknes was not 
long, and till the last day therof he did not wholy keepe his bed. His 
speech continued till somewhat more then halfe a day, and then failed 
him; and aboute g. or 10. a clock that evning he dyed, without any 
pangs at all. A few howers before, he drew his breath shorte, and some 
few minuts before his last, he drew his breath long, as a man falen 
into a sound slepe, without any pangs or gaspings, and so sweetly 
departed this life unto a better. 

I would now demand of any, what he was the worse for any former 
sufferings? What doe I say, worse? Nay, sure he was the better, and 
they now added to his honour. It 1s a manifest token (saith the Apostle, 
2. Thes: 1. 5, 6, 7.) of the righ[tleous judgmente of God that ye may be 
counted worthy of the kingdome of God, for which ye allso suffer; seing it ts a 
righteous thing with God to recompence tribulation to them that trouble you: 
and to you who are troubled, rest with us, when the Lord Jesus shall be re- 
vealed from heaven, with his mighty angels. 1. Pet. 4. 14. If you be reproached 
for the name of Christ, hapy are ye, for the spirite of glory and of God resteth 
upon you. What though he wanted the riches and pleasurs of the world 
in this life, and pompous monuments at his funurall? yet the memoriall 
of the just shall be blessed, when the name of the wicked shall rott 
(with their marble monuments). Pro: 10. 7. 

I should say something of his life, if to say a litle were not worse 
then to be silent. But I cannot wholy forbear, though hapily more 
may be done hereafter. After he had attained some learning, viz. the 
knowledg of the Latine tongue, and some insight in the Greeke, and 
spent some small time at Cambridge, and then being first seasoned 
with the seeds of grace and vertue, he went to the Courte, and served 
that religious and godly gentIman, Mr. Davison, diverce years, when 
he was Secretary of State; who found him so discreete and faithfull 
as he trusted him above all other that were aboute him, and only - 


114 The Puritans 


imployed him in all matters of greatest trust and secrecie. He es- 
teemed him rather as a sonne then a servante, and for his wisdom 
and godlines (in private) he would converse with him more like a 
freind and familier than a maister. He attended his m™ when he was 
_ sente in ambassage by the Queene into the Low-Countries, in the Earle 
of Leicesters time, as for other waighty affaires of state, so to receive 
possession of the cautionary townes, and in token and signe therof the 
keyes of Flushing being delivered to him, in her ma“* name, he kepte 
them some time, and committed them to this his servante, who kept 
them under his pilow, on which he slepte the first night. And, at his 
returne, the States honoured him with a gould chaine, and his maister 
committed it to him, and commanded him to wear it when they ar- 
rived in England, as they ridd thorrow the country, till they came to 
the Courte. He afterwards remained with him till his troubles, that 
he was put from his place aboute the death of the Queene of Scots; 
and some good time after, doeing him manie faithfull offices of servise 
in the time of his troubles. Afterwards he wente and lived in the 
country, in good esteeme amongst his freinds and the gentle-men of 
those parts, espetially the godly and religious. He did much good in 
the countrie wher he lived, in promoting and furthering religion, not 
only by his practiss and example, and provocking and incouraging 
of others, but by procuring of good preachers to the places theraboute, 
and drawing on of others to assiste and help forward in such a worke; 
he him selfe most comonly deepest in the charge, and some times above 
his abillitie. And in this state he continued many years, doeing the 
best good he could, and walking according to the light he saw, till 
the Lord reveiled further unto him. And in the end, by the tirrany 
of the bishops against godly preachers and people, in silenceing the 
one and persecuting the other, he and many more of those times 
begane to looke further into things, and to see into the unlawfullnes 


of their callings, and the burthen of many anti-christian corruptions, 


which both he and they endeavored to cast of; as they allso did, as 
in the begining of this treatis is to be seene. After they were joyned 
togither in comunion, he was a spetiall stay and help unto them. 
They ordinarily mett at his house on the Lords day, (which was a 
manor of the bishops,) and with great love he entertained them when 
they came, making provission for them to his great charge. He was 
the cheefe of those that were taken at Boston, and suffered the greatest 
loss; and of the seven that were kept longst in prison, and after bound 
over to the assises. Affter he came into Holland he suffered much 
hardship, after he had spente the most of his means, haveing a great 


History | 115 


charge, and many children; and, in regard of his former breeding 
and course of life, not so fitt for many imployments as others were, 
espetially such as were toylesume and laborious. But yet he ever bore 
his condition with much cherfullnes and contentation. ‘Towards the 
later parte of those 12. years spente in Holland, his outward condition 
was mended, and he lived well and plentifully; for he fell into a way 
(by reason he had the Latine tongue) to teach many students, who 
had a disire to lerne the English tongue, to teach them English; and 
by his method they quickly attained it with great facilitie; for he drew 
rules to lerne it by, after the Latine maner; and many gentlemen, 
both Danes and Germans, resorted to him, as they had time from 
other studies, some of them being great mens sonnes. He also had 
means to set up printing, (by the help of some freinds,) and so had 
imploymente inoughg, and by reason of many books which would 
not be alowed to be printed in England, they might have had more 
then they could doe. But now removeing into this countrie, all these 
things were laid aside againe, and a new course of living must be 
framed unto; in which he was no way unwilling to take his parte, 
and to bear his burthen with the rest, living many times without 
bread, or corne, many months together, having many times nothing 
but fish, and often wanting that also; and drunke nothing but water 
for many years togeather, yea, till within 5. or 6. years of his death. 
And yet he lived (by the blessing of God) in health till very old age. 
_ And besids that, he would labour with his hands in the feilds as long 
as he was able; yet when the church had no other minister, he taught 
twise every Saboth, and that both powerfully and profitably, to the 
great contentment of the hearers, and their comfortable edification; 
yea, many were brought to God by his ministrie. He did more in this 
behalfe in a year, then many that have their hundreds a year doe in 
all their lives. For his personall abilities, he was qualified above many; 
he was wise and discreete and well spoken, having a grave and de- 
liberate utterance, of a very cherfull spirite, very sociable and pleasante 
amongst his freinds, of an humble and modest mind, of a peaceable 
disposition, under vallewing him self and his owne abilities, and some 
time over valewing others; inoffencive and innocente in his life and 
conversation, which gained him the love of those without, as well as 
those within; yet he would tell them plainely of their faults and evills, 
both publickly and privatly, but in such a maner as usually was well 
taken from him. He was tender harted, and compassionate of such as 
were in miserie, but espetialy of such as had been of good estate and 
ranke, and were fallen unto want and poverty, either for goodnes 


116 The Puritans 


and religions sake, or by the injury and oppression of others; he would 
say, of all men these deserved to be pitied most. And none did more 
offend and displease him then such as would hautily and proudly 
carry and lift up themselves, being rise from nothing, and haveing 
litle els in them to comend them but a few fine cloaths, or a litle 
riches more then others. In teaching, he was very moving and stirring " 
of affections, also very plaine and distincte in what he taught; by 
which means he became the more profitable to the hearers. He had 
a singuler good gift in prayer, both publick and private, in ripping, 
up the hart and conscience before God, in the humble confession of 
sinne, and begging the mercies of God in Christ for the pardon of the 
same. He always thought it were better for ministers to pray oftener, 
and devide their prears, then be longe and tedious in the same (ex- 
cepte upon sollemne and spetiall occations, as in days of humiliation 
and the like). His reason was, that the harte and spirits of all, espetialy 
the weake, could hardly continue and stand bente (as it were) so 
long towards God, as they ought to doe in that duty, without flagging 
and falling of. For the govermente of the church, (which was most 
proper to his office,) he was carfull to preserve good order in the 
same, and to preserve puritie, both in the doctrine and comunion of 
the same; and to supress any errour or contention that might begine 
to rise up amongst them; and accordingly God gave good success to 
his indeavors herein all his days, and he saw the fruite of his labours 
in that behalfe. But I must breake of, having only thus: touched a 
few, as it were, heads of things. s 
I cannot but here take occasion, not only to mention, but greatly - 
to admire the marvelous providence of God, that notwithstanding 
the many changes and hardships that these people wente throwgh, and 
the many enemies they had and difficulties they mette with all, that 
so many of them should live to very olde age! It was not only this 
reve? mans condition, (for one swallow maks no summer, as they say,) 
but many more of them did the like, some dying aboute and before 
this time, and many still living, who attained to 60. years of age, and to 
65. diverse to 70. and above, and some nere 8o. as he did. It must 
needs be more than ordinarie, and above naturall reason, that so it 
should be; for it is found in experience, that chaing of aeir, famine, 
or unholsome foode, much drinking of water, sorrows and troubls, 
etc., all of them are enimies to health, causes of many diseaces, con- 
sumers of naturall vigoure and the bodys of men, and shortners of 
life. And yet of all these things they had a large parte, and suffered 
deeply in the same. They wente from England to Holand, wher they 


History 117 


found both worse air and dyet then that they came from; from thence 
(induring a long imprisonmente, as it were, in the ships at sea) into 
New-England; and how it hath been with them hear hath allready 
beene showne; and what crosses, troubls, fears, wants, and sorrowes 
they had been lyable unto, is easie to conjecture; so as in some sorte 
they may say with the Apostle, 2. Cor: 11. 26, 27. they were in jour- 
neyings often, in perils of waters, in perills of robers, in perills of their owne 
nation, in perils among the heathen, in perills in the willdernes, in perills in 
the sea, in perills among false breethern; in wearines and painfullnes, in watch- 
ing often, in hunger and thirst, in fasting often, in could and nakednes. What 
was it then that upheld them? It was Gods vissitation that preserved 
their spirits. Job. 10. 12. Thou hast given me life and grace, and thy visst- 
tation hath preserved my spirite. He that upheld the Apostle upheld them. 
They were persecuted, but not forsaken, cast downe, but perished not. 2. Cor: 4. 9. 
As unknowen, and yet knowen; as dying, and behold we live; as chastened, 
and yett not kiled. 2. Cor: 6. 9. God, it seems, would have all men to 
behold and observe such mercies and works of his providence as these 
are towards his people, that they in like cases might be incouraged 

_to depend upon God in their trials, and also blese his name when 
they see his goodnes towards others. Man lives not by bread only, 
Deut: 8. 3. It is not by good and dainty fare, by peace, and rest, 
and harts ease, in injoying the contentments and good things of this 

_ world only, that preserves health and prolongs life. God in such ex- 
amples would have the world see and behold that he can doe it with- 
out them; and if the world will shut ther eyes, and take no notice 
therof, yet he would have his people to see and consider it. Daniell 
could be better liking with pulse then others were with the kings 
dainties. Jaacob, though he wente from one nation to another people, 
and passed thorow famine, fears, and many afflictions, yet he lived 
till old age, and dyed sweetly, and rested in the Lord, as infinite others 
of Gods servants have done, and still shall doe, (through Gods goodnes,) 
notwithstanding all the malice of their enemies: when the branch of the 
wicked shall be cut of before his day, Job. 15. 32. and the bloody and de- 
ceitfull men shall not live out halfe their days. Psa: 55. 23. 


THOMAS SHEPARD, 1605-1649 


[Thomas Shepard, one of the great preachers in the first generation 
of New England Puritans, was born in Towcester, the son of a grocer. 
He entered pensioner at Emmanuel College, Cambridge, receiving 
his B.A. in 1624, his M.A. in 1627. He was a lecturer in Essex until 
silenced by Bishop Laud in 1630, then served as tutor and chaplain 


118 | The Puritans 


in the family of Sir Richard Darley in Yorkshire, where he married. 
He sailed for New England in 1634, was driven back by a storm and 
remained in hiding until the next spring, when he was successful in 
reaching America. Chosen minister at Cambridge, he immediately 
became one of the clerical leaders of the colony, being particularly 
energetic in suppressing the Antinomians. His first wife died in 1636, and - 
he married a daughter of Thomas Hooker. His works enjoyed a great 
reputation in their day, one of them, The Sincere Convert, running to 
twenty editions between 1641 and 1812. For biography and discus- 
sion of his work, see Samuel Eliot Morison, Builders of the Bay Colony. 
This text is from A Defence of the Answer made unto the Nine Questions 
or Positions sent from New-England against the reply thereto by Mr. Fohn 
Ball (London, 1648), pp. 3-9. The book was written in collaboration 
with John Allin, 1596-1671, minister at Dedham from 1639, though 
the preface is probably the work of Shepard alone.] 


A DEFENCE OF THE ANSWER 


ET US intreat all the Godly wise, to consider and look back upon 
CE the season of this great enterprise,! undertaken by us, and the- 
manner of our proceedings in it, with the admirable workings of 
Gods Providence first and last about it; and we think (though we 
were silent) they may easily satisfie themselves, whether this was of 
God or men, a sinfull neglect of the Cause of Christ, or a manifest 
attestation to the truth, by open profession against Corruptions of 
Worship in use, and for the necessity of reformation of the Church; 
and that confirmed by no small degree of sufferings for the same. 
For was it not a time when humane Worship and inventions were 
growne to such an intolerable height, that the consciences of Gods 
saints and servants inlightened in the truth could no longer bear 
them? was not the power of the tyrannicall Prelates so great, that like 
a strong Current carryed all down streame before it, what ever was 
from the law, or otherwise set in their way? Did not the hearts of men 
generally faile them? Where was the people to bee found that would 
cleave to their godly Ministers in their-sufferings, but rather thought 
it their descretion, to provide for their owne quiet and safety? Yea, 
when some freely in zeale of the Truth preached or professed against 
the corruptions of the times, did not some take offence at it, judge it 
rashnesse, and to bee against all rules of discretion, who since are 
ready to censure us for deserting the Cause? Many then thought, it 


1 Superior figures through individual selections refer to correspondingly numbered 
notes at the back of the volume, . 


History 119 


is an evill time, the prudent shall hold their peace, and might wee 
not say, this is not our resting place? And what would men have us 
doe in such a case? Must wee study some distinctions to salve our 
Consciences in complying with so manifold corruptions in Gods Wor- 
ship? or should wee live without Gods ordinances, because wee could 
not partake in the corrupt administration thereof? or content our 
selves to live without those ordinances of Gods Worship and Com- 
munion of Saints which hee called us unto, and our soules breathed 
after? or should wee forsake the publique Assemblies, and joyne to- 
gether in private separated Churches? how unsufferable it would then 
_ have been, the great offence that now is taken at it, is a full evidence.? 
And if in Cities, or some such great ‘Townes that might have been 
done, yet how was it possible for so many scattered Christians all 
over the Countrey? It is true, we might have suffered, if wee had sought 
it, wee might easily have found the way to have filled the Prisons, 
and some had their share therein. But whether wee were called there- 
unto, when a wide doore was set open of liberty otherwise; and our 
-witnesse to the truth, (through the malignant policy of those times) 
could not bee open before the world, but rather smothered up in close 
prisons or some such wayes, together with our selves, wee leave to 
bee considered. Wee cannot see but the rule of Christ to his Apostles 
and Saints, and the practise of Gods Saints in all ages, may allow us 
_ this liberty as well as others, to fly into the Wildernesse from the face 

of the Dragon. But if it had been so, that the Godly Ministers and 
Christians that fled to New-England, were the most timorous and faint 
hearted of all their Brethren, that stayed behinde, and that those. 
sufferings were nothing in comparison of their Brethrens (for why 
should any boast of sufferings?) yet who doth not know that the Spirit 
who gives various gifts, and all to profit withall, in such times doth 
single out every one to such worke, as hee in wisdome intends to call 
them unto? And whom the Lord will honour by suffering for his 
Cause, by imprisonment, &c. hee gives them spirits suitable thereto: 
whom the Lord will reserve for other service, or imploy in other places, 
hee inclines their hearts rather to fly, giving them an heart suitable 
to such a condition. It is a case of Conscience frequently put, and oft 
resolved by holy Bradford, Peter Martyr, Philpot, and others, in Queene 
Maries bloody dayes, viz. Whether it was lawfull to flee out of the 
Land: To which their anwer was, that if God gave a spirit of courage 
and willingnesse to glorifie him by sufferings, they should stay; but 
if they found not such a spirit they might lawfully fly, yea, they ad- 
vised them thereunto. Those Servants of Christ, though full of the 


120 The Puritans 


spirit of glory, and of Christ to outface the greatest persecuters in 
profession of the Truth, unto the death, yet did not complaine of the 
cowardize of such as fled, because they deserted them and the Cause, 
but rather advised divers so to doe, and rejoyced when God gave liberty 
to their brethren to escape with their lives to the places of liberty, to 
serve the Lord according to his Word. Neither were those faithfull 
Saints and servants of God uselesse and unprofitable in the Church 
of God that fled from the bloody Prelates. The infinite and onely 
wise God hath many workes to doe in the World, and hee doth by 
his singular Providence give gifts to his Servants, and disposeth them 
to his Worke as seemeth best to himselfe. If the Lord will have some 
to beare witnesse by imprisonments, dismembring, &c. wee honour 
them therein; if hee will have others instrumentall to promote refor- 
mation in England, wee honor them, and rejoyce in their holy en- 
deavours, praying for a blessing upon themselves and labours. And 
what if God will have his Church and the Kingdome of Christ goe 
up also in these remote parts of the world, that his Name may bee 
known to the Heathen, or whatsoever other end hee hath, and to this 
end will send forth a company of weake-hearted Christians, which 
dare not stay at home to suffer, why should wee not let the Lord 
alone, and rejoyce that Christ is preached howsoever, and whereso- 
ever? And who can say that this work was not undertaken and carryed 
on with sincere and right ends, and in an holy serious manner, by the 
chiefe and the body of such as undertooke the same? The Lord knows 
whether the sincere desires of worshipping himselfe according to his 
will, of promoting and propagating the Gospel, was not in the hearts 
of very many in this enterprise; and hee that seeth in secret, and re- 
wardeth openly, knows what prayers and teares have been poured 
out to God by many alone, and in dayes of fasting and prayer of 
Gods servants together, for his counsell, direction, assistance, blessing 
in this worke: How many longings and pantings of heart have been 
in many after the Lord Jesus, to see his goings in his Sanctuary, as 
the one thing their soules desired and requested of God, that they 
might dwell in his house for ever; the fruit of which prayers and de- 
sires this liberty of New-England hath been taken to bee, and thank- 
fully received from God. Yea, how many serious consultations with 
one another, and with the faithfull Ministers, and other eminent serv- 
ants of Christ, have been taken about this worke, is not unknowne 
to some; which cleares us from any rash heady rushing into this place, 
out of discontent, as many are ready to conceive. Wee will here say 
nothing of the persons whose hearts the Lord stirred up in this busi- 


History | 12% 


nesse; surely all were not rash, weake-spirited, inconsiderate of what 
they left behinde, or of what it was to goe into a Wildernesse. But if 
it were well knowne and considered, or if wee were able to expresse 
and recount the singular workings of divine Providence, for the bring- 
ing on of this worke, to what it is come unto, it would stop the mouths 
of all that have not an heart to accuse and blaspheme the goodnesse 
of God in his glorious workes: whatever many may say or think, wee 
beleeve after-times will admire and adore the Lord herein, when all 
his holy ends, and the wayes he hath used to bring them about shall 
appeare. Look from one end of the heaven to another, whether the 
Lord hath assayed to do such a Worke as this in any Nation, so to 
carry out a people of his owne from so flourishing a State, to a wil- 
dernesse so far distant, for such ends, and for such a worke: Yea, 
and in few yeares hath done for them, as hee hath here done for his 
poore despised people. When wee looke back and consider what a 
strange poise of spirit the Lord hath laid upon many of our hearts, 
wee cannot but wonder at our selves, that so many, and some so 
weak and tender, with such cheerfulnesse and constant resolutions 
against so many perswasions of friends, discouragements from the 
ill report of this Countrey, the straits, wants, and tryalls of Gods 
people in it, &c. yet should leave our accommodations and comforts, 
should forsake our dearest relations, Parents, brethren, Sisters, Chris- 
tian friends, and acquaintances, overlooke all the dangers and diffi- 
culties of the vast Seas, the thought whereof was a terrour to many, 
and all this to go to a wildernesse, where wee could forecast nothing 
but care and temptations, onely in hopes of enjoying Christ in his 
Ordinances, in the fellowship of his people; was this from a stupid 
senslesnesse or desperate carelesnesse what became of us or ours? or 
want of naturall affections to our deare Countrey, or nearest relations? 
No surely, with what bowells of compassion to our deare Countrey; 
with what heart-breaking affections, to our deare relations, and Chris- 
tian friends many of us at least came away, the Lord is witnesse. 
What shall we say of the singular Providence of God bringing so many 
Ship-loads of his people, through so many dangers, as upon Eagles 
wings, with so much safety from yeare to yeare? The fatherly care 
of our God in feeding and cloathing so many in a Wildernesse, giving 
such healthfulnesse and great increase of posterity? what shall wee 
say of the Worke it selfe of the kingdome of Christ? and the form of 
a Common-wealth erected in a Wildernesse, and in so few yeares 
brought to that state, that scarce the like can bee seen in any of our 
English Colonies in the richest places of this America, after many more 


122 See The Puritans 


years standing? That the Lord hath carryed the spirits of so many 
of his people through all their toylsome Labour, wants, difficulties, 
losses, &c. with such a measure of chearfulnesse and contentation? 
But above all wee must acknowledge the singular pity and mercies 
of our God, that hath done all this and much more for a people so 
unworthy, so sinfull, that by murmurings of many, unfaithfulnesse in 
promises, oppressions, and other evils which are found among us, 
have so dishonoured his Majesty, exposed his worke here to much 
scandall and obloquie, for which wee have cause for ever to bee 
ashamed, that the Lord should yet owne us, and rather correct us in 
mercy, then cast us off in displeasure, and scatter us in this Wilder- 
nesse, which gives us cause with Mich. 7. to say, Who is a God like our 
God, that pardoneth iniquities, and passeth by the transgressions of the rem- 
nant of his heritage; even because he delighteth in mercy? Though we be a 
people of many weaknesses and wants, yet wee acknowledge our God 
to have been to us a God of many mercies, in respect of that sweet 
peace which he hath taken away from so many Nations, yet continuing 
the same to us; in respect also of that liberty wee have in Gods house, 
the blessed Ministery of the Word, the sweet unity and communion of 
Gods Churches and Ministers, increase and multiplication of Churches, 
Christian government in the Common-wealth, and many other mercies 
wee enjoy, but especially the gracious presence of Christ to many of 
our soules in all these. But wee will not insist much upon this subject, 
being perswaded it is in the consciences and hearts of many of our 
dear Countrey-men to thinke that we should be an object of love 
and tendernesse to that State and people, by whose Laws and un- 
kind usages we were driven out into a wildernesse, rather then to 
bee judged as desertors of our Brethren, and the Cause of Christ in 
hand: with whom (excuse us if we now speak plainly) it had been 
far more easie unto many of us to have suffered, then to have ad- 
ventured hither upon the wildernesse sorrows wee expected to have 
met withall; though we must confesse the Lord hath sweetned it 
beyond our thoughts, and utmost expectations of prudent men. 


FRANCIS HIGGINSON, 1586-1630 


[Francis Higginson was born in Claybrook, Leicestershire, where 
his father was vicar; he took his B.A. at Jesus College, Cambridge, 1610, 
his M.A. in 1613. He succeeded his father at Claybrook, 1615, and 
from 1617 to 1627 was lecturer at St. Nicholas. Under the influence 
of Thomas Hooker he became a Puritan and was deprived for non-con- 


History 2 123 


formity. When proceedings were commenced against him in the High 
Commission he was engaged by the Massachusetts Bay Company and 
sent with the first body of settlers to Salem, 1629, where he was chosen 
teacher of the church and where he died of a hectic fever, August 6, 
1630, leaving a widow and seven children. He wrote an account of 
the voyage to New England, and shortly before his death despatched 
back the manuscript of New-Englands Plantation, published by the 
Company in London in 1630. This text is from the first edition, pp. Br 
verso—B2 recto, C1 recto—C2 verso. | 


NEW-ENGLANDS PLANTATION 


T BECOMMETH not a Preacher of Truth to be a Writer of Falshood 
I in any degree: and therefore I haue beene carefull to report nothing 
of New-England but what I haue partly seene with mine owne Eyes, 
and partly heard and enquired from the Mouthes of verie honest and 
religious person, who by liuing in the Countrey a good space of time 
haue had experience and knowledge of the state thereof, & whose 
testimonies I doe beleeue as my selfe. 

First therefore of the Earth of New-England and all the appurtenances 
thereof: It is a Land of diuers and sundry sorts all about Masathulets 
Bay, and at Charles Riuer is as fat blacke Earth as can be seene any 
_ where: and in other places you haue a clay soyle, in other grauell, 
in other sandy, as it is all about our Plantation at Salem, for so our 
Towne is now named, Psal. 76. 2. 

The forme of the Earth here in the superficies of it is neither too 
flat in the plainnesse, nor too high in Hils, but partakes of both in 
a mediocritie, and fit for Pasture, or for Plow or Meddow ground, 
as Men please to employ it: though all the Countrey be as it were a 
thicke Wood for the generall, yet in diuers places there is much ground 
cleared by the Indians, and especially about the Plantation: and I am 
told that about three miles from vs.a Man may stand on a little hilly 
place and see diuers thousands of acres of ground as good as need to 
be, and not a Tree in the same. It is thought here is good Clay to 
make Bricke and Tyles and Earthen-Pots as needs to be. At this in- 
stant we are setting a Bricke-Kill on worke to make Brickes and Tyles 
for the building of our Houses. For Stone, here is plentie of Slates 
at the Ile of Slate in Masathulets Bay, and Lime-stone, Free-stone, 
and Smooth-stone, and Iron-stone, and Marble-stone also in such 
store, that we haue great Rockes of it, and a Harbour hard by. Our 
Plantation is from thence called Marble-harbour. . 


124 - The Puritans 


OF THE AIRE OF NEW-ENGLAND WITH THE TEMPER 
AND CREATURES IN IT. 


The Temper of the Aire of New-England is one speciall thing that 
commends this place. Experience doth manifest that there is hardly a 
more healthfull place to be found in the World that agreeth better with 
our English Bodyes. Many that haue beene weake and sickly in old Eng- 
land, by comming hither hane beene thoroughly healed and growne 
healthfull and strong. For here is an extraordinarie cleere and dry Aire: 
that is of a most healing nature to all such as are of a Cold, Melancholy, 
Flegmatick, Reumaticke temper of Body. None can more truly speake 
hereof by their owne experience then my selfe. My Friends that knew 
me can well tell how verie sickly I haue been and continually in 
Physick, being much troubled with a tormenting paine through an 
extraordinarie weaknesse of my Stomacke, and aboundance of Melan- 
cholicke humors; but since I came hither on this Voyage, I thanke 
God I haue had perfect health, and freed from paine and vomitings, 
hauing a Stomacke to digest the hardest and coursest fare who before 
could not eat finest meat; and whereas my Stomacke could onely 
digest and did require such drinke as was both strong and stale, now 
I can and doe oftentimes drink New-England water verie well; and I 
that haue not gone without a Cap for many yeeres together, neither 
durst leaue off the same, haue now cast away my Cap, and doe weare 
none at all in the day time: and whereas beforetime I cloathed my 
selfe with double cloathes and thicke Wastcoats to keepe me warme, 
euen in the Summer time, I doe now goe as thin clad as any, onely 
wearing a light Stuffe Cassocke vpon my Shirt and Stuffe Breeches 
of one thicknesse without Linings. Besides, I haue one of my Children 
that was formerly most lamentably handled with sore breaking out 
of both his hands and feet of the Kings-Euill, but since he came 
hither he is verie well ouer hee was, and there is hope of perfect re- 
couerie shortly, euen by the verie wholesomnesse of the Aire, altering, 
digesting and drying vp the cold and crude humors of the Body: and 
therefore I thinke it is a wise course for all cold complections to come 
to take Physicke in New-England: for a sup of New-Englands Aire is 
better then a whole draft of old Englands Ale. 

In the Summer time in the midst of July and August, it is a good 
deale hotter then in old England: and in Winter, January and February 
are much colder as they say: but the Spring and Autumne are of a 
middle temper. 

Fowles of the Aire are plentifull here, and a all sorts as we haue 


History ; 125 


in England as farre as I can learne, and a great many of strange Fowles 
which we know not. Whilst I was writing these things, one of our 
Men brought home an Eagle which he had killed in the Wood: they 
say they are good meat. Also here are many kinds of excellent Hawkes, 
both Sea Hawkes and Land Hawkes: and my selfe walking in the 
Woods with another in company, sprung a Partridge so bigge that 
through the heauinesse of his Body could fly but a little way: they 
that haue killed them, say they are as bigge as our Hens. Here are 
likewise aboundance of Turkies often killed in the Woods, farre greater 
then our English Turkies, and exceeding fat, sweet and fleshy, for 
here they haue aboundance of feeding all the yeere long, as Straw- 
berries, in Summer all places are full of them, and all manner of 
Berries and Fruits. In the Winter time I haue seene Flockes of Pidgeons, 
and haue eaten of them: they doe flye from Tree to Tree as other 
Birds doe, which our Pidgeons will not doe in England: they are of 
all colours as ours are, but their wings and tayles are farr longer, and 
therefore it is likely they fly swifter to escape the terrible Hawkes in 
this Countrey. In Winter time this Countrey doth abound with wild 
Geese, wild Duckes, and other Sea Fowle, that a great part of winter 
the Planters haue eaten nothing but roastmeat of diuers Fowles which 
they haue killed. ... 

Though it be here somthing cold in the winter, yet here we haue 
plentie of Fire to warme vs, and that a great deale cheaper then they 
sell Billets and Faggots in London: nay, all Europe is not able to afford 
to make so great Fires as New-England. A poore Seruant here that is 
to possesse but 50 Acres of Land, may afford to giue more wood for 
Timber and Fire as good as the world yeelds, then many Noble Men 
in England can afford to doe. Here is good liuing for those that loue 
good Fires. | 


JOHN WINTHROP, 1588-1649 


[The Winthrop family was decidedly one of importance in Suffolk, 
where John Winthrop’s grandfather, a wealthy clothier, acquired the 
manor of Groton in 1544; his father, Adam Winthrop, was a suc- 
cessful lawyer and was auditor for St. John’s and Trinity Colleges, 
Cambridge, from 1594 to 1609. John Winthrop entered pensioner at 
Trinity College, March, 1603, but left in less than two years when he 
was married at the age of seventeen. As justice of the peace and lord 
of Groton Manor he was a man of consequence; he was attorney of 
the Court of Wards, 1626, and admitted of the Inner Temple, 1628. 
An intense Puritan from his youth, he was profoundly discouraged 


126 / The Puritans 


about the future of religion in England; losing his attorneyship, he 
became interested in the Massachusetts Bay Company and was one 
of the twelve signatories to the agreement drawn up at Cambridge, 
August 26, 1629, promising to migrate to New England if the charter 
could be transferred and the government established there. Elected 
governor on October 26, he superintended the departure, and sailed, 
March, 1630, on the Arbella. He first settled at Charlestown, but moved 
to Boston in 1631. In most of the remaining years of his life he was either 
governor or deputy governor of the colony, at all times its leading 
citizen and most influential personage. He supported the banishment of | 
Williams, fought the Antinomians, and guided the community through 
several crises in the 1640’s. Life and Letters, by Robert C. Winthrop 
(Boston, 1869); Samuel Eliot Morison, Builders of the Bay Colony. The 
Journal, sometimes called The History of New England, was begun at 
Southampton when the expedition was about to set sail, and was 
kept up intermittently until his death. This text is from the edition by 
James Savage (Boston, 1825), 2 vols.] 


FOURNAL 


ANDING at Salem, June 12, 1630.] About four in the morning we 
were near our port. We shot off two pieces of ordnance, and 
sent our skiff to Mr. Peirce his ship (which lay in the harbor, and had 
been there [blank] days before). About an hour after, Mr. Allerton 4 
came aboard us in a shallop as he was sailing to Pemaquid. As we 
stood towards the harbor, we saw another shallop coming to us; so 
we stood in to meet her, and passed through the narrow strait between 
Baker’s Isle and Little Isle, and came to an anchor a little within 
the islands. 

After Mr. Peirce came aboard us, and returned to fetch Mr. Ende- 
cott,? who came to us about two of the clock, and with him Mr. Skel- 
ton ? and Capt. Levett. We that were of the assistants, and some other 
gentlemen, and some of the women, and our captain, returned with 
them to Nahumkeck,* where we supped with a good venison pasty 
and good beer, and at night we returned to our ship, but some of the 
women stayed behind. 

In.the mean time most of our people went on shore upon the land 
of Cape Ann, which lay very near us, and gathered store of fine 
strawberries. : , 

An Indian came aboard us and lay there all night... . 


{February 10, 1631.] The frost brake up; and after that, though 


History | 127 


we had many snows and sharp frost, yet they continued not, neither 
were the waters frozen up as before. It hath been observed, ever 
since this bay was planted by Englishmen, viz., seven years, that at 
this day the frost hath broken up every year. | 

The poorer sort of people (who lay long in tents, etc.) were much 
afflicted with the scurvy, and many died, especially at Boston and 
Charlestown; but when this ship came and brought store of juice of 
lemons, many recovered speedily. It hath been always observed here, 
that such as fell into discontent, and lingered after their former con- 
ditions in England, fell into the scurvy and died. ... 

[October 11, 1631.] The governor,’ being at his farm house at 
Mistick, walked out after supper, and took a piece in his hand sup- 
posing he might see a wolf, (for they came daily about the house, 
and killed swine and calves, etc.;) and, being about half a mile off, 
it grew suddenly dark, so as, in coming home, he mistook his path, 
and went till he came to a little house of Sagamore John, which stood 
empty. There he stayed, and having a piece of match in his pocket, 
(for he always carried about him match and a compass, and in summer 
time snake-weed,) he made a good fire near the house, and lay down 
upon some old mats, which he found there, and so spent the night, 
sometimes walking by the fire, sometimes singing psalms, and some- 
times getting wood, but could not sleep. It was (through God’s mercy) 
a warm night; but a little before day it began to rain, and, having no 
cloak, he made shift by a long pole to climb up into the house. In 
the morning, there came: thither an Indian squaw, but perceiving her 
_ before she had opened the door, he barred her out; yet she stayed 
there a great while essaying to get in, and at last she went away, 
and he returned safe home, his servants having been much perplexed 
for him, and having walked about, and shot off pieces, and hallooed 
in the night, but he heard them not. ... 

[January 18, 1636.] Mr. Vane® and Mr. Peter,’ finding some dis- 
traction in the commonwealth, arising from some difference in judg- 
ment, and withal some alienation of affection among the magistrates 
and some other persons of quality, and that hereby factions began to 
grow among the people, some adhering more to the old governor, 
Mr. Winthrop, and others to the late governor, Mr. Dudley,8’—the 
former carrying matters with more lenity, and the latter with more 
severity,—they procured a meeting, at Boston, of the governor, deputy, 
Mr. Cotton, Mr. Hooker, Mr. Wilson,? and there was present Mr. 
Winthrop, Mr. Dudley, and themselves; where, after the Lord had 
been sought, Mr. Vane declared the occasion of this meeting, (as is 


128 The Puritans 


before noted,) and the fruit aimed at, viz. a more firm and friendly 
uniting of minds, etc., especially of the said Mr. Dudley and Mr. 
Winthrop, as those upon whom the weight of the affairs did lie, etc., 
and therefore desired all present to take up a resolution to deal freely 
and openly with the parties, and they each with other, that nothing 
might be left in their breasts, which might break out to any jar or 
difference hereafter, (which they promised to do). Then Mr. Win- 
throp spake to this effect: that when it pleased Mr. Vane to acquaint 
him with what he had observed, of the dispositions of men’s minds 
inclining to the said faction, etc., it was very strange to him, pro- 
fessing solemnly that he knew not of any breach between his brother 
Dudley and himself, since they were reconciled long since, neither 
did he suspect any alienation of affection in him or others from him- 
self, save that, of late, he had observed, that some new comers had 
estranged themselves from him, since they went to dwell at Newtown; 
and so desired all the company, that, if they had seen any thing amiss 
in his government or otherwisé, they would deal freely and faithfully 
with him, and for his part he promised to take it in good part, and 
would endeavor, by God’s grace, to amend it. Then Mr. Dudley 
spake to this effect: that for his part he came thither a mere patient, 
not with any intent to charge his brother Winthrop with any thing; 
for though there had been formerly some differences and breaches be- 
tween them, yet they had been healed, and, for his part, he was not 
willing to renew them again; and so left it to others to utter their 
own complaints. Whereupon the governor, Mr. Haynes,!° spake to 
this effect: that Mr. Winthrop and himself had been always in good 
terms, etc.; therefore he was loath to give any offence to him, and he 
hoped that, considering what the end of this meeting was, he would 
take it in good part, if he did deal openly and freely, as his manner 
ever was. Then he spake of one or two passages, wherein he con- 
ceived, that [he] dealt too remissly in point of justice; to which Mr. 
Winthrop answered, that his speeches and carriage had been in part 
mistaken; but withall professed, that it was his judgment, that in the 
infancy of plantation, justice should be administered with more lenity 
than in a settled state, because people were then more apt to trans- 
gress, partly of ignorance of new laws and orders, partly through op- 
pression of business and other straits; but, if it might be made clear 
to him, that it was an error, he would be ready to take up a stricter 
course. Then the ministers were desired to consider of the question 
by the next morning, and to set down a rule in the case. The next 
morning, they delivered their several reasons, which all sorted to this 


History 129 


conclusion, that strict discipline, both in criminal offences and in mar- 
tial affairs, was more needful in plantations than in a settled state, as 
tending to the honor and safety of the gospel. Wherepon Mr. Winthrop 
acknowledged that he was convinced, that he had failed in over much 
lenity and remissness, and would endeavor (by God’s assistance) to 
take a more strict course hereafter. . . . 


[WINTHROP’s ACCOUNT OF THE ANTINOMIAN CRISIS] 


[October 21, 1636.] One Mrs. Hutchinson, a member of the church 
of Bosten, a woman of a ready wit and bold spirit, brought over with 
her two dangerous errors: 1. That the person of the Holy Ghost dwells 
in a justified person. 2. That no sanctification can help to evidence 
to us our justification—From these two grew many branches; as, 
1. Our union with the Holy Ghost, so as a Christian remains dead 
to every spiritual action, and hath no gifts nor graces, other than 
such as are in hypocrites, nor any other sanctification but the Holy 
Ghost himself.4 

There joined with her in these opinions a brother of hers, one Mr. 
Wheelwright,” a silenced minister sometimes in England. 

[October 25.] The other ministers in the bay, hearing of these 
things, came to Boston at the time of a general court, and entered 
conference in private with them, to the end they might know the 
certainty of these things; that if need were, they might write to the 
church of Boston about them, to prevent (if it were possible) the dan- 
gers, which seemed hereby to hang over that and the rest of the 
churches. At this conference, Mr. Cotton was present, and gave satis- 
faction to them, so as he agreed with them all in the point of sanc- 
tification, and so did Mr. Wheelwright; so as they all did hold, that 
sanctification did help to evidence justification. The same he had de- 
livered plainly in public, divers times; but, for the indwelling of the 
person of the Holy Ghost, he held that still, as some others of the 
ministers did, but not union with the person of the Holy Ghost, (as 
Mrs. Hutchinson and others did,) so as to amount to a personal 
UTOn 75... 

[November 17.] The governor, Mr. Vane, a wise and godly gentle- 
man, held, with Mr. Cotton and many others, the indwelling of the 
person of the Holy Ghost in a believer, and went so far beyond 
the rest, as to maintain a personal union with the Holy Ghost; but the 
deputy,'3 with the pastor /* and divers others, denied both; and the 
question proceeded so far by disputation, (in writing, for the peace 


130 The Puritans 
sake of the church, which all were tender of,) as at length they could 
not find the person of the Holy Ghost in scripture, nor in the primitive 
churches three hundred years after Christ. So that, all agreeing in 
the chief matter of substance, viz. that the Holy Ghost is God, and 
that he doth dwell in the believers, (as the Father and Son both are 
said also to do,) but whether by his gifts and power only, or by any 
other manner of presence, seeing the scripture doth not declare it,— 
it was earnestly desired, that the word person might be forborn, being 
a term of human invention, and tending to doubtful disputation in | 
eisicase dt 

[December ro.] At this court the elders of the churches were called, 
to advise with them about discovering and pacifying the differences 
among the churches in point of opinion. The governor having de- 
clared the occasion to them, Mr. Dudley desired, that men would 
be free and open, etc. Another of the magistrates spake, that it would 
much further the end they came for, if men would freely declare 
what they held different from others, as himself would freely do, in 
what point soever he should be opposed. The governor said, that he 
would be content to do the like, but that he understood the ministers 
were about it in a church way, etc., which he spake upon this oc- 
casion: the ministers had met, a little before, and had drawn into 
heads all the points, wherein they suspected Mr. Cotton did differ 
from them, and had propounded them to him, and pressed him to a 
direct answer, affirmative or negative, to every one; which he had 
promised, and taken time for. ‘This meeting being spoke of in the court 
the day before, the governor took great offence at it, as being without 
his privity, etc., which this day Mr. Peter told him as plainly of, (with 
all due reverence,) and how it had sadded the ministers’ spirits, that 
he should be jealous of their meetings, or seem to restrain their liberty, 
etc. The governor excused his speech, as sudden and upon a mistake. 
Mr. Peter told him also, that before he came, within less than two 
years since, the churches were in peace, etc. The governor answered, 
that the light of the gospel brings a sword, and the children of the bond- 
woman would persecute those of the freewoman. Mr. Peter also be- 
sought him humbly to consider his youth, and short experience in the 
things of God, and to beware of peremptory conclusions, which he 
perceived him to be very apt unto. ... 

Mr. Wilson made a very sad speech of the condition of our churches, 
and the inevitable danger of separation, if these differences and aliena- 
tions among brethren were not speedily remedied; and laid the blame 
upon these new opinions risen up amongst us, which all the magis- 


History , 131 


trates, except the governor and two others, did confirm, and all the 
ministers but two... . 

The speech of Mr. Wilson was taken very ill by Mr. Cotton and 
others of the same church, so as he and divers of them went to ad- 
monish him. But Mr. Wilson and some others could see no breach 
of rule, seeing he was called by the court about the same matter with 
the rest of the elders, and exhorted to deliver their minds freely and 
faithfully, both for discovering the danger, and the means to help; 
and the things he spake of were only in general, and such as were 
under a common fame. And being questioned about his intent, he 
professed he did not mean Boston church, nor the members thereof, 
more than others. But this would not satisfy, but they called him to 
answer publicly, [December] 31; and there the governor pressed it 
violently against him, and all the congregation, except the deputy 
and one or two more, and many of them with much bitterness and 
reproaches; but he answered them all with words of truth and sober- 
ness, and with marvellous wisdom. It was strange to see, how the 
common people were led, by example, to condemn him in that, which 
(it was very probable) divers of them did not understand, nor the 
rule which he was supposed to have broken; and that such as had 
known him so long, and what good he had done for that church, should 
fall upon him with such bitterness for justifying himself in a good cause; 
for he was a very holy, upright man, and for faith and love inferior 
to none in the country, and most dear to all men. The teacher joined 
with the church in their judgment of him, (not without some appear- 
ance of prejudice,) yet with much wisdom and moderation. They 
were eager to proceed to present censure, but the teacher staid them 
from that, telling them he might not do it, because some opposed it, 
but gave him a grave exhortation. ‘The next day Mr. Wilson preached, 
notwithstanding, and the Lord so assisted him, as gave great satis- 
faction, and the governor himself gave public witness to him. . 

[January 20, 1637.] The differences in the said points of religion 
increased more and more, and the ministers of both sides (there being 
only Mr. Cotton of one party) did publicly declare their judgments 
in some of them, so as all men’s mouths were full of them. And there 
being, 12 mo. [February] 3, a ship ready to go for England, and many 
passengers in it, Mr. Cotton took occasion to speak to them about 
the differences, etc., and willed them to tell our countrymen, that all 
the strife amongst us was about magnifying the grace of God; one 
party seeking to advance the grace of God within us, and the other 
to advance the grace of God towards us, (meaning by the one justifi- 


/ 


132 | The Puritans 


cation, and by the other sanctification;) and so bade them tell them, 
that, if there were any among them that would strive for grace, they 
should come hither; and so declared some particulars. Mr. Wilson 
spake after him, and declared, that he knew none of the elders or 
brethren of the churches, but did labor to advance the free grace of 
God in justification, so far as the word of God required; and spake 
also about the doctrine of sanctification, and the use and necessity, 
etc., of it; by occasion whereof no man could tell (except some few, 
who knew the bottom of the matter) where any difference was: which _ 
speech, though it offended those of Mr. Cotton’s party, yet it was very 
seasonable to clear the rest, who otherwise should have been reputed 
to have opposed free grace. Thus every occasion increased the con- 
tention, and caused great alienation of minds; and the members of 
Boston (frequenting the lectures of other ministers) did make much 
disturbance by public questions, and objections to their doctrines, 
which did any way disagree from their opinions; and it began to be 
as common here to distinguish between men, by being under a cove- 
nant of grace or a covenant of works, as in other countries between 
Protestants and papists.... 

[March 9.] Mr. Wheelwright, one of the members of Boston, preach- 
ing at the last fast, inveighed against all that walked in a covenant 
of works, as he described it to be, viz., such as maintain sanctification 
as an evidence of justification, etc. and called them antichrists, and 
stirred up the people against them with much bitterness and vehe- 
mency. For this he was called into the court, and his sermon being 
produced, he justified it, and confessed he did mean all that walk in 
such a way. Whereupon the elders of the rest of the churches were 
called, and asked whether they, in their ministry, did walk in such 
a way. They all acknowledged they did. So, after much debate, the 
court adjudged him guilty of sedition, and also of contempt, for that 
the court had appointed the fast as a means of reconciliation of the 
differences, etc., and he purposely set himself to kindle and increase 
them. The governor and some few more (who dissented) tendered a 
protestation, which, because ‘it wholly justified Mr. Wheelwright, and 
condemned the proceedings of the court, was rejected. The church 
of Boston also tendered a petition in his behalf, justifying Mr. Wheel- 
wright’s sermon. The court deferred sentence till the next court, and 
advised with the ministers, etc., whether they might enjoin his silence, 
etc. They answered, that they were not clear in that point, but de- 
sired rather, that he might be commended to the church of Boston 
to take care of him, etc., which accordingly was done, and he ‘en- 


History 133 


joined to appear at the next court. Much heat of contention was this 
court between the opposite parties; so as it was moved, that the next 
court might be kept at Newtown... .» 

[May 17.] Our court of elections was at Newtown. So soon as the 
court was set, being about one of the clock, a petition was preferred 
by those of Boston. The governor would have read it, but the deputy 
said it was out of order; it was a court for elections, and those must 
first be despatched, and then their petitions should be heard. Divers 
others also opposed that course, as an ill precedent, etc.; and the peti- 
tion, being about pretence of liberty, etc., (though intended chiefly 
for revoking the sentence given against Mr. Wheelwright,) would have 
spent all the day in debate, etc.; but yet the governor and those of 
that party would not proceed to election, except the petition was 
read. Much time was already spent about this debate, and the people 
crying out for election, it was moved by the deputy, that the people 
should divide themselves, and the greater number must carry it. And 
so it was done, and the greater number by many were for election. 
But the governor and that side kept their place still, and would not 
proceed. Whereupon the deputy told him, that, if he would not go 
to election, he and the rest of that side would proceed. Upon that, 
he came from his company, and they went to election; and Mr. Win- 
throp was chosen governor, Mr. Dudley deputy and Mr. Endecott of 
the standing council; and Mr. Israel Stoughton and Mr. Richard Sal- 
tonstall were called in to be assistants; and Mr. Vane, Mr. Codding- 
ton, and Mr. Dummer, (being all of that faction,) were left-quite out. 

There was great danger of a tumult that day; for those of that side 
grew into fierce speeches, and some laid hands on others; but seeing 
themselves too weak, they grew quiet. They expected a great advan- 
- tage that day, because the remote towns were allowed to come in by 
proxy; but it fell out, that there were enough beside... . 

[August 30.] The synod,'® called the assembly, began at Newtown. 
There were all the teaching elders through the country, and some 
new come out of England, not yet called to any place here, as Mr. 
Davenport,?’ etc. 

The assembly began with prayer, made by Mr. Shepherd, the pastor 
of Newtown. Then the erroneous opinions, which were spread in the 
country, were read, (being eighty in all: 18) next the unwholesome 
expressions; then the scriptures abused. Then they chose two mod- 
erators for the next day, viz., Mr. Buckly and Mr. Hooker, and these 
were continued in that place all the time of the assembly. There were 
about eighty opinions, some blasphemous, others erroneous, and all 


134 The Puritans 


unsafe, condemned by the whole assembly; whereto near all the elders, 
and others sent by the churches, subscribed their names; but some few 
liked not subscription, though they consented to the condemning of 
tet.) jek é 

[November 1.] There was great hope that the late general assembly 
would have had some good effect in pacifying the troubles and dis- 
sensions about maitters of religion; but it fell out otherwise. For though 
Mr. Wheelwright and those of his party had been clearly confuted 
and confounded in the assembly, yet they persisted in their opinions, | 
and were as busy in nourishing contentions (the principal of them) 
as before. Whereupon the general court, being assembled in the 2 
of the 9th month [November], and finding, upon consultation, that 
two so opposite parties could not contain in the same body, without 
apparent hazard of ruin to the whole, agreed to send away some of 
the principal; .. . Then the court sent for Mr. Wheelwright, and, he 
persisting to justify his sermon, and his whole practice and opinions, 
and refusing to leave either the place or his public exercisings, he 
was disfranchised and banished. Upon which he appealed to the king, 
but neither called witnesses, nor desired any act to be made of it. 
The court told him, that an appeal did not lie; for by the king’s 
grant we had power to hear and determine without any reservation,}® 
etc. So he relinquished his appeal, and the court gave him leave to 
go to his house, upon his promise, that, if he were not gone out of our 
jurisdiction within fourteen days, he would render himself to one of 
the magistrates. 

The court also sent for Mrs. Hutchinson, and charged her with 
divers matters, as her keeping two public lectures every week in her 
house, whereto sixty or eighty persons did usually resort, and for re- 
proaching most of the ministers (viz., all except Mr. Cotton) for not 
preaching a covenant of free grace, and that they had not the seal 
of the spirit, nor were able ministers of the New Testament; which 
were clearly proved against her, though she sought to shift it off. And, 
after many speeches to and fro, at last she was so full as she could not 
contain, but vented her revelations;?? amongst which this was one, 
that she had it revealed to her, that she should come into New Eng- 
land, and should here be persecuted, and that God would ruin us 
and our posterity, and the whole state, for the same. So the court 
proceeded and banished her; but, because it was winter, they com- 
mitted her to a private house, where she was well provided, and her 
own friends and the elders permitted to go to her, but none else. .. . 

After this, many of the church of Boston, being highly offended 


History ib 


with the governor for this proceeding, were earnest with the elders to 
have him called to account for it; but they were not forward in it, 
and himself, understanding their intent, thought fit to prevent such 
a public disorder, and so took occasion to speak to the congregation 
to this effect:— 

. .. He did nothing in the cases of the brethren, but by the advice 
and direction of our teacher and other of the elders. For in the oath, 
- which was administered to him and the rest, etc., there was inserted, 
by his advice, this clause,—In all causes wherein you are to give your 
vote, etc., you are to give your vote as in your judgment and con- 
science you shall see to be most for the public good, etc.; and so for 
his part he was persuaded, that it would be most for the glory of God, 
and the public good, to pass sentence as they did. 

He would give them one reason, which was a ground for his judg- 
ment, and that was, for that he saw, that those brethren, etc., were 
so divided from the rest of the country in their judgment and practice, 
as it could not stand with the public peace, that they should continue 
amongst us. So, by the example of Lot in Abraham’s family, and after 
Hagar and Ishmael, he saw they must be sent away... . 

[March 1, 1638.] While Mrs. Hutchinson continued at Roxbury, 
divers of the elders and others resorted to her, and finding her to 
persist in maintaining those gross errors beforementioned, and many 
others, to the number of thirty or thereabout, some of them wrote 
to the church at Boston, offering to make proof of the same before 
the church, etc., [March] 15; whereupon she was called, (the magis- 
trates being desired to give her license to come,) and the lecture was 
appointed to begin at ten. ... When she appeared, the errors were 
read to her. .. . These were also clearly confuted, but yet she held 
her own; so as the church (all but two of her sons) agreed she should 
be admonished, and because her sons would not agree to it, they were 
admonished also. 

Mr. Cotton pronounced the sentence of admonition with great so- 
lemnity, and with much zeal and detestation of her errors and pride 
of spirit.27 The assembly continued till eight at night, and all did ac- 
knowledge the special presence of God’s spirit therein; and she was 
appointed to appear again the next lecture day. ... 

{March 22.] Mrs. Hutchinson appeared again; (she had been li- 
censed by the court, in regard she had given hope of her repentance, 
to be at Mr. Cotton’s house, that both he and Mr. Davenport might 
have the more opportunity to deal with her;) and the articles being 
again read to her, and her answer required, she delivered it in writing, 


136 The Puritans 


wherein she made a retractation of near all, but with such explana- 
tions and circumstances as gave no satisfaction to the church; so as 
she was required to speak further to them. Then she declared, that 
it was just with God to leave her to herself, as he had done, for her 
slighting his ordinances, both magistracy and ministry; and confessed 
that what she had spoken against the magistrates at the court (by 
way of revelation) was rash and ungrounded; and desired the church 
to pray for her. This gave the church good ‘hope of her repentance; 
but when she was examined about some particulars, as that she had — 
denied inherent righteousness, etc., she affirmed that it was never her 
judgment; and though it was proved by many testimonies, that she 
had been of that judgment, and so had persisted, and maintained it 
by argument against divers, yet she impudently persisted in her affirma- 
tion, to the astonishment of all the assembly. So that, after much time 
and many arguments had been spent to bring her to see her sin, but 
all in vain, the church, with one consent, cast her out. Some moved 
to have her admonished once more; but, it being for manifest evil 
in matter of conversation, it was agreed otherwise; and for that reason 
also the sentence was denounced by the pastor, matter of manners 
belonging properly to his place. 

After she was excommunicated, her spirits, which seemed before 
to be somewhat dejected, revived again, and she gloried in her suf- 
ferings, saying, that it was the greatest happiness, next to Christ, 
that ever befel her. Indeed, it was a happy day to the churches of 
Christ here, and to many poor souls, who had been seduced by her, 
who, by what they heard and saw that day, were (through the grace 
of God) brought off quite from her errors, and settled again in the 
puts... 

After two or three days, the governor sent a warrant to Mrs. Hutch- 
inson to depart this jurisdiction before the last of this month, ac- 
cording to the order of court, and for that end set her at liberty from 
her former constraint, so as she was not to go forth of her own house 
till her departure; and upon the 28th she went by water to her farm 
at the Mount, where she was to take water, with Mr. Wheelwright’s 
wife and family, to go to Pascataquack; but she changed her mind, 
and went by land to Providence, and so to the island in the Nara- 
gansett Bay, which her husband and the rest of that sect had pur- 
chased of the Indians, and prepared with all speed to remove unto. 
For the court had ordered, that, except they were gone with their 
families by such a time, they should be summoned to the general 
COUL Ts i: | 


History | 137 


[September 25, 1638.] The court, taking into consideration the great 
disorder general through the country in costliness of apparel, and 
following new fashions, sent for the elders of the churches, and con- 
ferred with them about it, and laid it upon them, as belonging to them, 
to redress it, by urging it upon the consciences of their people, which 
they promised to do. But little was done about it; for divers of the 
elders’ wives, etc., were in some measure partners in this general dis- 
Orders 

[May 26, 1639.] Mr. Hooker being to preach at Cambridge, the 
governor and many others went to hear him, (though the governor 
did very seldom go from his own congregation upon the Lord’s day). 
He preached in the afternoon, and having gone on, with much strength 
of voice and intention of spirit, about a quarter of an hour, he was 
at a stand, and told the people, that God had deprived him both of 
his strength and matter, etc., and so went forth, and about half an 
hour after returned again, and went on to very good purpose about 
two hours... . 

[December 15, 1640.] About this time there fell out a thing worthy 
of observation. Mr. Winthrop the younger, one of the magistrates, 
having many books in a chamber where there was corn of divers 
sorts, had among them one wherein the Greek testament, the psalms 
and the common prayer were bound together. He found the common 
prayer eaten with mice, every leaf of it, and not any of the two other — 
touched, nor any other of his books, though there were above a 
thousand. 

[April 13, 1641.] A godly woman of the church of Boston, dwelling 
sometimes in London, brought with her a parcel of very fine linen of 
great value, which she set her heart too much upon, and had been 
at charge to have it all newly washed, and curiously folded and 
pressed, and so left it in press in her parlor over night. She had a negro 
maid went into the room very late, and let fall some snuff of the 
candle upon the linen, so as by the morning all the linen was burned 
to tinder, and the boards underneath, and some stools and a part of 
the wainscot burned, and never perceived by any in the house, though 
some lodged in the chamber over head, and no ceiling between. But 
it pleased God that the loss of this linen did her much good, both 
in taking off her heart from worldly comforts, and in preparing her 
for a far greater affliction by the untimely death of her husband, who 
was slain not long after at Isle of Providence. 

[September 15, 1641.] A great training at Boston two days. About 
1200 men were exercised in most sorts of land service; yet it was ob- 


138 The Puritans 


served that there was no man drunk, though there was plenty of wine 
and strong beer in the town, not an oath sworn, no quarrel, nor any 
hurt done.” : 

[September 22, 1642.] The sudden fall of land and cattle, and the 
scarcity of foreign commodities, and money, etc., with the thin access 
of people from England, put many into an unsettled frame of spirit, 
so as they concluded there would be no subsisting here, and accord- 
ingly they began to hasten away, some to the West Indies, others to 
the Dutch, at Long Island, etc., (for the governor there invited them _ 
by fair offers,) and others back for England. ... 

... [hey fled for fear of want, and many of them fell into it, even 
to extremity, as if they had hastened into the misery which they feared 
and fled from, besides the depriving themselves of the ordinances and 
church fellowship, and those civil liberties which they enjoyed here; 
whereas, such as staid in their places, kept their peace and ease, and 
enjoyed still the blessing of the ordinances, and never tasted of those 
troubles and miseries, which they heard to have befallen those who 
departed. Much disputation there was about liberty of removing for 
outward advantages, and all ways were sought for an open door to 
get out at; but it is to be feared many crept out at a broken wall. 
For such as come together into a wilderness, where are nothing but 
wild beasts and beastlike men, and there confederate together in civil 
and church estate, whereby they do, implicitly at least, bind them- 
selves to support each other, and all of them that society, whether 
civil or sacred, whereof they are members, how they can break from 
this without free consent, is hard to find, so as may satisfy a tender 
or good conscience in time of trial. Ask thy conscience, if thou wouldst 
have plucked up thy stakes, and brought thy family 3000 miles, if 
thou hadst expected that all, or most, would have forsaken thee there. 
Ask again, what liberty thou hast towards others, which thou likest 
not to allow others towards thyself; for if one may go, another may, 
and so the greater part, and so church and commonwealth may be 
left destitute in a wilderness, exposed to misery and reproach, and all 
for thy ease and pleasure, whereas these all, being now thy brethren, 
as near to thee as the Israelites were to Moses, it were much safer for 
thee, after his example, to choose rather to suffer affliction with thy 
brethren, than to enlarge thy ease and pleasure by furthering the 
occasion of their ruin... . 

[July 5, 1643.] There arose a sudden gust at N. W. so violent for 
half an hour, as is blew down multitudes of trees. It lifted up their 
meeting house at Newbury, the people being in it. It darkened the 


History é 139 


air with dust, yet through God’s great mercy it did no hurt, but only 
killed one Indian with the fall of a tree. 

[January 18, 1644.] The 18th of this month two lights were seen 
near Boston, (as is before mentioned,) and a week after the like was 
seen again. A light like the moon arose about the N. E. point in 
Boston, and met the former at Nottles Island, and there they closed 
in one, and then parted, and closed and parted divers times, and so 
went over the hill in the island and vanished. Sometimes they shot 
out flames and sometimes sparkles. ‘This was about eight of the clock 
in the evening, and was seen by many. About the same time a voice 
was heard upon the water between Boston and Dorchester, calling 
out in a most dreadful manner, boy, boy, come away, come away: 
and it suddenly shifted from one place to another a great distance, 
about twenty times. It was heard by divers godly persons. About 14 
days after, the same voice in the same dreadful manner was heard by 
others on the other side of the town towards Nottles Island. 

These prodigies having some reference to the place where Captain 
Chaddock’s pinnace was blown up a little before, gave occasion of 
speech of that man who was the cause of it, who professed himself 
to have skill in necromancy, and to have done some strange things 
in his way from Virginia hither, and was suspected to have murdered 
his master there; but the magistrates here had not notice of him till 
after he was blown up. This is to be observed that his fellows were 
all found, and others who were blown up in the former ship were also 
found, and others also who have miscarried by drowning, etc., have 
usually been found, but this man was never found... . 

[March 21, 1644.] One Dalkin and his wife dwelling near Meadford 
coming from Cambridge, where they had spent their Sabbath, and be- 
ing to pass over the river at a ford, the tide not being fallen enough, the 
husband adventured over, and finding it too deep, persuaded his wife 
to stay a while, but it raining very sore, she would needs adventure 
over, and was carried away with the stream past her depth. Her hus- 
band not daring to go help her, cried out, and thereupon his dog, 
being at his house near by, came forth, and seeing something in the 
water, swam to her, and she caught hold on the dog’s tail, so he drew 
her to the shore and saved her life. 

[July 15, 1644.] A poor man of Hingham, one Painter, who had 
lived at New Haven and at Rowley and Charlestown, and been scan- 
dalous and burdensome by his idle and troublesome behavior to them 
all, was now on the sudden turned anabaptist, and having a child 
born, he would not suffer his wife to bring it to the ordinance of 


140 The Puritans 


baptism, for she was a member of the church, though himself were 
not. Being presented for this, and enjoined to suffer the child to be 
baptized, he still refusing, and disturbing the church, he was again 
brought to the court not only for his former contempt, but also for 
saying that our baptism was antichristian; and in the open court he 
affirmed the same. Whereupon after much patience and clear con- 
viction of his error, etc., because he was very poor, so as no other but 
corporal punishment could be fastened upon. him, he was ordered to 
be whipped, not for his opinion, but for reproaching the Lord’s or- 


dinance, and for his bold and evil behavior both at home and in the — 


court. He endured his punishment with much obstinacy, and when 
he was loosed, he said boastingly, that God had marvellously assisted 
him. Whereupon two or three honest men, his neighbors, affirmed 
before all the company, that he was of very loose behavior at home, 
and given much to lying and idleness, etc. Nor had he any great 
occasion to gather God’s assistance from his stillness under the punish- 
ment, which was but moderate, for divers notorious malefactors had 
showed the like, and one the same court. 

[April 13, 1645.] Mr. Hopkins, the governor of Hartford upon Con- 
necticut, came to Boston, and brought his wife with him, (a godly 
young woman, and of special parts,) who was fallen into a sad in- 
firmity, the loss-of her understanding and reason, which had been 
growing upon her divers years, by occasion of her giving herself wholly 
to reading and writing, and had written many books. Her husband, 
being very loving and tender of her, was loath to grieve her; but he 
saw his error, when it was too late. For if she had attended her house- 
hold affairs, and such things as belong to women, and not gone out 
of her way and calling to meddle in such things as are proper for 
men, whose minds are stronger, etc., she had kept her wits, and might 
have improved them usefully and honorably in the place God had 
set her. He brought her to Boston, and left her with her brother, one 
Mr. Yale, a merchant, to try what means might be had here for her. 
But no help could be had. 

[April 13, 1645.] The wars in England kept servants from coming 
to us, so as those we had could not be hired, when their times were 
out, but upon unreasonable terms, and we found it very difficult to pay 
their wages to their content, (for money was very scarce). I may upon 
this occasion report a passage between one of Rowley and his servant. 
The master, being forced to sell a pair of his oxen to pay his servant 
his wages, told his servant he could keep him no longer, not knowing 
how to pay him the next year: The servant answered, he would serve 


. History 141 


him for more of his cattle. But how shall I do (saith the master) when 
all my cattle are gone? The servant replied, you shall then serve me, 
and so you may have your cattle again,” 

[July 3, 1645.] Divers free schools were erected, as at Roxbury (for 
maintenance whereof every inhabitant bound some house or land for 
a yearly allowance forever) and at Boston (where they made an order 
to allow forever 50 pounds to the master and an house and 30 pounds 
to an usher, who should also teach to read and write and cipher, and 
Indians’ children were to be taught freely, and the charge to be by 
yearly contribution, either by voluntary allowance, or by rate of such 
as refused, etc., and this order was confirmed by the general court... 
Other towns did the like, providing maintenance by several means. 

[ July, 1646.] Great harm was done in corn (especially wheat and 
barley) in this month by a caterpillar, like a black worm about an 
inch and a half long. They eat up first the blades of the stalk, then 
they eat up the tassels, whereupon the ear withered. It was believed 
by divers good observers, that they fell in a great thunder shower, 
for divers yards and other bare places, where not one of them was to 
be seen an hour before, were presently after the shower almost covered 
with them, besides grass places where they were not so easily discerned. 
They did the most harm in the southern parts, as Rhode Island, etc., 
and in the eastern parts in their Indian corn. In divers places the 
churches kept a day of humiliation, and presently after the cater- 
pillars vanished away. 

[September 20, 1646.] There fell a sad affliction upon the country 
this year, though it more particularly concerned New Haven and 
those parts. A small ship of about 100 tons set out from New Haven 
in the middle of the eleventh month last (the harbor there being so 
frozen, as they were forced to hew her through the ice near three 
miles). She was laden with pease and some wheat, all in bulk, with 
about 200 West India hides, and store of beaver, and plate, so as it 
was estimated in all at 5000 pounds. There were in her about seventy 
persons, whereof divers were of very precious account, as Mr. Grigson, 
one of their magistrates, the wife of Mr. Goodyear, another of their 
magistrates, (a right godly woman,) Captain Turner, Mr. Lamberton, 
master of the ship, and some seven or eight others, members of the 
church there. The ship never went voyage before, and was very crank- 
sided, so as it was conceived, she was overset in a great tempest, which 
happened soon after she put to sea, for she was never heard of after. . . . 

[June 28, 1648.] There appeared over the harbor at New Haven, 
in the evening, the form of the keel of a ship with three masts, to which 


142. The Puritans 


were suddenly added all the tackling and sails, and presently after, 
upon the top of the poop, a man standing with one hand akimbo 
under his left side, and in his right hand a sword stretched out toward 
the sea. Then from the side of the ship which was from the town 
arose a great smoke, which covered all the ship, and in that smoke 
she vanished away; but some saw her keel sink into the water. This 
was seen by many, men and women, and it continued about a quarter 
of an hour.... 

[June 4, 1647.] An epidemical sickness was through the country | 
among Indians and English, French and Dutch. It took them like a _ 
cold, and a light fever with it. Such as bled or used cooling drinks 
died; those who took comfortable things, for most part recovered, and 
that in few days. Wherein a special providence of God appeared, for 
not a family, nor but few persons escaping it, had it brought all so 
weak as it did some, and continued so long, our hay and corn had 
been lost for want of help; but such was the mercy of God to his people, 
as few died, not above forty or fifty in the Massachusetts, and near 
as many at Connecticut. But that which made the stroke more sensible 
and grievous, both to them and to all the country, was the death of 
that faithful servant of the Lord, Mr. Thomas Hooker, pastor of the 
church in Hartford, who, for piety, prudence, wisdom, zeal, learning, 
and what else might make him serviceable in the place and time he 
lived in, might be compared with men of greatest note; and he shall 
need no other praise: the fruits of his labors in both Englands shall 
preserve an honorable and happy remembrance of him forever. 

[June 14.] In this sickness the governor’s wife, daughter of Sir John 
Tindal, Knight, left this world for a better, being about fifty-six years 
of age: a woman of singular virtue, prudence, modesty, and piety, 
and specially beloved and honored of all the country. 

[August 15, 1648.] The synod *4 met at Cambridge by adjournment 
from the (4) [ June] last. Mr. Allen of Dedham preached out of Acts 15, 
a very godly, learned, and particular handling of near all the doctrines 
and applications concerning that subject with a clear discovery and 
refutation of such errors, objections, and scruples as had been raised 
about it by some young heads in the country. 

It fell out, about the midst of his sermon, there came a snake into 
the seat, where many of the elders sate behind the preacher. It came 
in at the door where people stood thick upon the stairs. Divers of the 
elders shifted from it, but Mr. Thomson, one of the elders of Braintree, 
(a man of much faith,) trode upon the head of it, and so held it with 
his foot and staff with a small pair of grains, until it was killed. This 


History 143 


being so remarkable, and nothing falling out but by divine providence, 
it is out of doubt, the Lord discovered somewhat of his mind in it. 
The serpent is the devil; the synod, the representative of the churches 
of Christ in New England. The devil had formerly and lately attempted 
their disturbance and dissolution; but their faith. in the seed of the 
woman overcame him and crushed his head. 


EDWARD JOHNSON, 1598-1672 


{Edward Johnson, born in Canterbury, was brought up to the trade 
of joiner, married in 1618, and emigrated to Boston in 1630. He went 
back to England for his wife and seven children, and returned to New 
England in the midst of the Antinomian crisis. He settled at Charles- 
town in 1636; in 1640 he became one of the founders of Woburn, where 
he remained a leading citizen for the remainder of his life, serving 
as proprietor, clerk, selectman, militia captain, deputy to the General 
Court. He was Speaker of the House of Deputies in 1655, and was em- 
ployed by the government as surveyor of the boundaries and inspector 
of arms and ammunitions. He commenced writing his history in 1650; 
it was published anonymously in London in 1654. This text is from 
Wonder-Working Providence of Sions Saviour. in New England. ed. J. F. 
Jameson (New York, 1910). For discussion see this edition, or that of 
William Frederick Poole (Andover, 1867).] 


WONDER-WORKING PROVIDENCE OF SIONS SAVIOUR 


BEING A RELATION OF THE FIRST PLANTING IN NEw ENGLAND, 
2 IN THE YEARE, 1628. 


Book JI. 


Cuap. I. 


THE SAD CONDITION OF ENGLAND, WHEN THIS PEOPLE REMOVED. 


HEN England began to decline in Religion, like luke-warme 
Laodicea, and instead of purging out Popery, a farther com- 
pliance was sought not onely in vaine Idolatrous Ceremonies, but 
also in prophaning the Sabbath, and by Proclamation throughout 
their Parish churches, exasperating lewd and prophane persons to 
celebrate a Sabbath like the Heathen to Venus, Baccus and Ceres; } 


144 The Puritans 


in so much that the multitude of irreligious lascivious and popish 
affected persons spred the whole land like Grashoppers, in this very 
time Christ the glorious King of his Churches, raises an Army out 
of our English Nation, for freeing his people from their long servitude 
under usurping Prelacy; and because every corner of England was 
filled with the fury of malignant adversaries, Christ creates a New 
England to muster up the first of his Forces in; Whose low condition, 
little number, and remotenesse of place made these adversaries tri- 
umph, despising this day of small things, but in this hight of their 
pride the Lord Christ brought sudden, and unexpected destruction 
upon them. Thus have you a touch of the time when this worke 
began. 

Christ Jesus intending to manifest his Kingly Office toward his 
Churches more fully than ever yet the Sons of men saw, even to the 
uniting of Jew and Gentile Churches in one Faith, begins with our 
English Nation (whose former reformation being vere imperfect) doth 
now resolve to cast down their false foundation of Prelacy, even in 
the hight of their domineering dignity. And therefore in the yeere 
1628, he stirres up his servants as the Heralds of a King to make this 
proclamation for Voluntiers, as followeth. 

Oh yes! oh yes! oh yes! All you the people of Christ that are here Op- 
pressed, Imprisoned and scurrilously derided, gather yourselves together, your 
Wives and little ones, and answer to your severall Names as you shall be shipped 
for his service, in the Westerne World, and more especially for planting the 
united Collonies of new England; Where you are to attend the service of the 
King of Kings, upon the divulging of this Proclamation by his Herralds at 
Armes. Many (although otherwise willing for this service) began to 
object as followeth: 

Can it possible be the mind of Christ, (who formerly inabled so 
‘many Souldiers of his to keepe their station unto the death here) that 
now so many brave Souldiers disciplined by Christ himselfe the Cap- 
taine of our salvation, should turne their backs to the disheartning of 
their Fellow-Souldiers, and losse of further opportunity in gaining a 
greater number of Subjects to Christs Kingdome? 

Notwithstanding this Objection, It was further proclaimed as fol- 
loweth: What Creature, wilt not know that Christ thy King crusheth 
with a rod of Iron, the Pompe and Pride of man, and must he like 
man cast and contrive to take his enemies at advantage? No, of pur- 
pose hee causeth such instruments to retreate as hee hath made strong 
for himselfe: that so his adversaries glorying in the pride of their power, 
insulting over the little remnant remaining, Christ causeth them to 


History 145 


be cast downe suddenly forever, and wee find in stories reported, 
Earths Princes have passed their Armies at need over Seas and deepe 
Torrents. Could Cesar so suddenly fetch over fresh forces from Europe 
to Asia, Pompy to foyle? How much more shall Christ who createth 
all power, call over this goo league Ocean at his pleasure, such in- 
struments as he thinks meete to make use of in this place, from whence 
you are now to depart, but further that you may not delay the Voyage 
intended, for your full satisfaction, know this is the place where the 
Lord will create a new Heaven, and a new Earth in, new Churches, 
and a new Common-wealth together; Wherefore, 


Cuap. II. 


THE COMMISSION OF THE PEOPLE OF CHRIST SHIPPED FOR NEW 
ENGLAND, AND FIRST OF THEIR GATHERING INTO CHURCHES. 


Attend to your Commission, all you that are or shall hereafter be 
shipped for this service, yee are with all possible speed to imbarque 
your selves, and as for all such Worthies who are hunted after as 
David was by Saul and his Courtiers, you may change your habit and 
ship you with what secrecy you can, carrying all things most needfull 
for the Voyage and service you are to be imployed in after your land- 
ing. But as soone as you shall be exposed to danger of tempestious 
Seas, you shall forthwith shew whose servants you are by calling on 
the Name of your God, sometimes by extraordinary seeking his pleasing 
Face in times of deepe distresse, and publishing your Masters will, 
and pleasure to all that Voyage with you, and that is his minde to 
have purity in Religion preferred above all dignity in the world; your 
Christ hath commanded the Seas they shall not swallow you, nor 
Pyrates imprison your persons, or possesse your goods. At your landing 
see you observe the Rule of his Word, for neither larger nor stricter 
Commission can hee give by any, and therefore at first filling the Land 
whither you are sent, with diligence, search out the mind of God 
both in planting and continuing Church and civill Government, but be 
sure they be distinct, yet agreeing and helping the one to the other; Let 
the matter and forme of your Churches be such as were in the Primi- 
tive Times (before Antichrists Kingdome prevailed) plainly poynted out 
by Christ and his Apostles, in most of their Epistles to be neither 
Nationall nor Provinciall, but gathered together in Covenant of such 
a number as might ordinarily meete together in one place, and built 
of such living stones as outwardly appeare Saints by calling. You are 
also to ordaine Elders in every Church, make you use of such as 


146 | The Puritans 


Christ hath indued with the best gifts for that end, their call to Office 
shall be mediate from you, but their authority and commission shall 
be immediate from Christ revealed in his word; which, if you shall 
slight, despise or contemne, hee will soone frustrate your call by taking 
the most able among you to honour with an everlasting Crown; whom 
you neglected to honour on Earth double as their due, or he will carry 
them remote from you to more infant Churches. You are not to put 
them upon anxious Cares for their daily Bread, for assuredly (although 
it may now seeme strange) you shall be fed in this Wildernesse, whither 
you are to goe, with the flower of Wheate and Wine shall be plentifull 
among you (but be sure you abuse it not) these Doctrines delivered 
from the Word of God imbrace, and let not Satan delude you by per- 
swading their learned skill is unnecessary, soone then will the Word 
of God be slighted as translated by such, and you shall be left wildred 
with strange Revelations of every phantastick brain. . . . 


CuHap. XII. 


OF THE VOLUNTARY BANISHMENT, CHOSEN BY THIS PEOPLE 
OF CHRIST, AND THEIR LAST FAREWELL TAKEN 
OF THEIR COUNTRY AND FRIENDs. 


And now behold the severall Regiments of these Souldiers of Christ, 
as they are shipped for his service in the Western World, part thereof 
being come to the Towne and Port of Southamptan in England, where 
they were to be shipped, that they might prosecute this designe to 
the full, one Ship called the Eagle, they wholy purchase, and many 
more they hire, filling them with the seede of man and beast to sow 
this yet untilled Wildernesse withall, making sale of such Land as 
they possesse, to the great admiration of their Friends and Acquain- 
tance, who thus expostulate with them, What, will not the large in- 
come of your yearly revenue content you, which in all reason cannot 
chuse but be more advantagious both to you and yours, then all that 
Rocky Wildernesse, whither you are going, to run the hazard of your 
life? Have you not here your Tables filled with great variety of Foode, 
your Coffers filled with Coyne, your Houses beautifully built and filled 
with all rich Furniture? (or otherwise) have you not such a gainfull 
Trade as none the like in the Towne where you live? Are you not in- 
riched daily? Are not your Children very well provided for as they 
come to years? (nay) may you not here as pithily practise the two 
chiefe Duties of a Christian (if Christ give strength) namely Mortifi- 
cation and Sanctification as in any place of the World? What helps 


History ! 147 


can you have there that you must not carry from hence? With bold 
resolvednesse these stout Souldiers of Christ reply; as Death, the King 
of terror with all his dreadfull attendance inhumane and barbarous, 
tortures doubled and trebled by all the infernal furies have appeared 
but light and momentany to the Souldiers of Christ Iesus, so also the 
Pleasure, Profits and Honours of this World set forth in their most 
glorious splendor, and magnitude by the alluring Lady of Delight, 
proffering pleasant embraces, cannot intice with her Syren Songs, such 
Souldiers of Christ, whose aymes are elevated by him, many Millions 
above that brave Warrier Viysses. 

Now seeing all can be said will but barely set forth the immoveable 
Resolutions that Christ continued in these men; Passe on and attend 
with teares, if thou hast any, the following discourse, while these Men, 
Women and Children are taking their last farwell of their Native Coun- 
try, Kindred, Friends and Acquaintance, while the Ships attend them; 
Many make choise of some solitary place to eccho out their bowell- 
breaking affections in bidding their Friends farwell, deare friends (sayes 
one) as neare as my owne soule doth thy love lodge in my brest, with 
thought of the heart-burning Ravishments, that thy Heavenly speeches 
have wrought: my melting soule is poured out at present with these 
words, both of them had their farther speach strangled from the depth 
of their inward dolor, with breast-breaking sobs, till leaning their heads 
each on others shoulders, they let fall the salt-dropping dews of vehe- 
ment affection, striving to exceede one another, much like the de- 
parture of David and Jonathan: having a little eased their hearts with 
the still streames of Teares, they recovered speech againe. Ah! my 
much honoured friend, hath Christ given thee so great a charge as 
to be Leader of his People into that far remote, and vast Wildernesse, 
I, oh, and alas thou must die there and never shall I see thy Face 
in the flesh againe, wert thou called to so great a taske as to passe 
the pretious Ocean, and hazard thy person in Battell against thousands 
of Malignant Enemies there? there were hopes of thy return with 
triumph, but now after two three, or foure moneths spent with daily 
expectation of swallowing Waves, and cruell Pirates, you are to be 
Landed among barbarous Jndians, famous for nothing but cruelty, 
where you are like to spend your days in a famishing condition for a 
long space; Scarce had he uttered this, but presently hee lockes his 
friend fast in his armes, holding each other thus for some space of 
time, they weepe againe, But as Paul to his beloved flock: the other 
replies what doe you weeping and breaking my heart? I am now prest 
for the service of our Lord Christ, to re-build the most glorious Edifice 


148 The Puritans 


of Mount Sion in a Wildernesse, and as John Baptist, I must cry pre- 
pare yee the way of the Lord, make his paths strait, for behold hee 
is comming againe, hee is comming to destroy Antichrist, and give the 
whore double to drinke the very dregs of his wrath. 

Then my deare friend unfold thy hands, for thou and I have much 
worke to doe, I and all Christian Souldiers the World throughout, 
then hand in hand they leade each other to the Sandy-banks of the 
brinish Ocean, when clenching their hands fast, they unloose not til 
inforced to wipe their watery-eyes, whose constant streames forced a | 
watery-path upon their Cheekes, which to hide from the eyes of others 
they shun society for a time, but being called by occasion, whose 
bauld back-part none can lay hold one; They thrust in among the 
throng now ready to take Ship, where they beheld the like affections 
with their own among divers Relations, Husbands and Wives with mu- 
tuall consent are now purposed to part for a time g00 Leagues asunder, 
since some providence at present will not suffer them to goe together, 
they resolve their tender affections shall not hinder this worke of Christ, 
the new Married and betrothed man, exempt by the Law of God 
from war, now will not claime their priviledge, but being constrained 
by the Love of Christ, lock up their naturall affections for a time, 
till the Lord shall be pleased to give them a meeting in this Westerne 
World, sweetly mixing it with spirituall love, in the meane time many 
Fathers now take their yong Samuells, and give them to this service 
of Christ all their Lives. Brethren, Sisters, Unkles, Nephewes, Neeces, 
together with all Kindred of bloud that binds the bowells of affection 
in a true Lovers knot, can now take their last farewell, each of other, 
although naturall affection will still claime her right, and manifest her 
selfe to bee in the body by looking out at the Windowes in a mourne- 
full manner among this company, thus disposed doth many Reverend 
and godly Pastors of Christ present themselves, some in a Seamans 
Habit,* and their scattered sheepe comming as a poore Convoy loftily 
take their leave of them as followeth, what dolefull dayes are these, 
when the best choise our Orthodox Ministers can make is to take up 
a perpetuall banishment from their native soile, together with their 
Wives and Children, wee their poore sheepe they may not feede, but 
by stoledred should they abide here. Lord Christ, here they are at thy 
command, they go, this is the doore thou hast opened upon our 
earnest request, and we hope it shall never be shut: for Englands sake 
they are going from England to pray without ceasing for England, O 
England! thou shalt finde New England prayers prevailing with their 
God for thee, but now woe alas, what great hardship must these our 


History -* ag 


indeared Pastors indure for a long season, with these words they lift 
up their voyces and wept, adding many drops of salt liquor to the 
ebbing Ocean; Then shaking hands they bid adue with much cordiall 
affection to all their Brethren, and Sisters in Christ, yet now the Scorne 
and Derision of those times, and for this their great enterprise counted 
as so many crackt-braines, but Christ will make all the earth know the 
wisdome he hath indued them with, shall over-top all the humane 
policy in the World, as the sequell wee hope will shew; Thus much 
shall suffice in generall to speak of their peoples farewell they tooke 
from time to time of their Country and Friends. .. . 


Cuap. XVII. 


OF THE FIRST LEADING OF THESE PEOPLE OF CHRIST, 
WHEN THE CiIviILL GOVERNMENT WAS ESTABLISHED. 


But to goe on with the Story, the 12 of July or thereabout 1630. 
these Souldiers of Christ first set foote one this Westerne end of the 
World; where arriveing in safety, both Men, Women and Children. 
On the North side of Charles River, they landed neare a small Island, 
called Noddells Island, where one Mr. Samuel Mavereck then living, a 
man of a very loving and curteous behaviour, very ready to enter- 
taine strangers, yet an enemy to the Reformation in hand, being 
strong for the Lordly Prelaticall power one this Island, he had built 
a small Fort with the helpe of one Mr. David Tompson, placing therein 
foure Murtherers to protect him from the Indians. About one mile 
distant upon the River ran a small creeke, taking its Name from 
Major Gen. Edward Gibbons, who dwelt there for some yeares after; 
One the South side of the River one a point of Land called Blaxtons 
point, planted Mr. William Blaxton, of whom we have former spoken: 
to the South-East of him, neare an Island called Tompsons Island lived 
some few Planters more, these persons were the first Planters of those 
parts, having some small Trading with the Indians for Beaver-Skins, 
which moved them to make their aboade in those parts, whom these 
first Troopes of Christs Army, found as fit helpes to further their worke. 
At their arrivall those small number of Christians gathered at Salem, 
greatly rejoycing and the more, because they saw so many that came 
chiefly for promoting the great Work of Christ in hand, the Lady 
Arrabella ? and some other godly Women aboad at Salem, but their 
Husbands continued at Charles Town, both for the settling the civill 
Government, and gathering another Church of Christ. The first Court 
was holden aboard the Arrabella the 23. of August. When the much 


150. The Puritans 


honoured John Wintrope Esq. was chosen Governour for the remainder 
of that yeare, 1630. Also the worthy Thomus Dudly Esq. was chosen 
Deputy Governour, and Mr. Simon Brodestreet Secretary, the people 
after their long Voyage were many of them troubled with the Scurvy, 
and some of them died: the first station they tooke up was at Charles 
Towne, where they pitched some Tents of Cloath, other built them 
small Huts, in which they lodged their Wifes and Children. The first 
beginning of this worke seemed very dolorous; First for the death of 
that worthy personage Izaac Johnson Esq. whom the Lord had indued 
with many pretious gifts, insomuch that he was had in high esteeme 
among all the people of God, and as a chiefe Pillar to support this 
new erected building. He very much rejoyced at his death, that the 
Lord had been pleased to keepe his eyes open so long, as to see one 
Church of Christ gathered before his death, at whose departure there 
was not onely many weeping eyes, but some fainting hearts, fearing 
the fall of the present worke. For future Remembrance of him mind 
this Meeter. 


Izaac johnson Esquire, beloved of Christ and his people, and one of 
the Magistrates of New England. 


What mov'd thee on the Seas upon such toyle with Lady-taking; 
Christs drawing love all strengths above, when way for his hee’s making. 
Christ will have thee example be, honoured with’s graces, yeilding 
His Churches aid, foundation laid, now new one Christ a building. 
Thy Faith, Hope, Love, Foy, Meeknesse prove improved for thy Lord, 
As he to thee, to people be, 1n Government accord. 
Oh! people why, doth Christ deny this worthies life to lengthen? 
Christ onely trust, Johnsons turnd dust, and yet hee’s crownd and strengthend. 


The griefe of this people was further increased by the sore sicknesse 
which befell among them, so that almost in every Family Lamentation, 
Mourning, and woe was heard, and no fresh food to be had to cherish 
them, it would assuredly have moved the most lockt up affections to 
Teares no doubt, had they past from one Hut to another, and beheld 
the piteous case these people were in, and that which added to their 
present distresse was the want of fresh water, for although the place 
did afford plenty, yet for present they could finde but one Spring, 
and that not to be come at, but when the tide was downe, which 
caused many to passe over to the South-side of the River, where they 
afterward erected some other ‘Townes, yet most admirable it was to 
seé with what Christian courage many of these Souldiers of Christ 
carried it amidst all these calamities, and in October, the Governour 


History roa 


Deputy and Assistants, held their second Court on the South-side of 
the River; Where they then began to build, holding correspondency 
with Charles Towne, as one and the same. 

At this Court many of the first Planters came, and were made free, 
yet afterward none were admitted to this fellowship, or freedome, but 
such as were first joyned in fellowship with some one of the Churches 
of Christ, their chiefest aime being bent to promote his worke alto- — 
gether. The number of Freemen this yeare was 110. or thereabout.. .. 


CHap. XXIX. 


OF THE LORDS REMARKABLE PROVIDENCE TOWARD HIS INDEARED 
SERVANTS M. NorTon AND Mr. SHEPHERD. 


Now my loving Reader, let mee lead thee by: the hand to our 
Native Land, although it was not intended to speake in particulars 
of any of these peoples departure from thence, purposing a generall 
relation should serve the turne, yet come with mee and behold the 
wonderous worke of Christ in preserving two of his most valiant Soul- 
diers, namely Mr. John Norton,s and that soule ravishing Minister 
Mr. Thomas Shepheard, who came this yeare to Yarmouth to ship them- 
selves for New England, where the people of God resorted privately 
unto them to hear them Preach, during the time of their aboade the 
Enemies of Christs Kingdome were not wanting to use all meanes 
possible to intrap them, in which perilous condition they remained 
about two months, waiting for the Ships readinesse, in which time 
some persons eagerly hunting for Mr. Thomas Shepheard, began to plot 
(for apprehending of him) with a Boy of sixteene or seventeene.yeares 
of Age, who lived in the House where hee Lodged to open the doore 
for them at a certaine houre in the night; But the Lord Christ, who 
is the Shepheard of Jsrael kept a most sure watch over his indeared 
servants, for thus it befell, the sweet words of grace falling from the 
of lips of this Reverend and godly Mr. Thomas Shepheard in the hearing 
of the Boy (the Lords working withall) hee was perswaded this was 
an holy man of God, and therefore with many troubled thoughts, 
began to relate his former practice, although hee had a great some 
of money promised him, onely to let them in at the houre and time 
appointed; but the Boy, the more neere the time came, grew more 
pensive and sad, insomuch that his Master taking notice thereof began 
to question him about the cause of his heavinesse, who being unwilling 
to reveale the matter, held of from confessing a long time, till by urgent 
and insinuating search of his godly Master, with teares hee tells that 


152 The Puritans 


on such a night hee had agreed to let in Men to apprehend the godly 
Preacher. The good Man of the house forthwith gave notice thereof 
unto them, who with the helpe of some well-affected persons was 
convay’d away by boate through a back Lane, the men at the time 
appointed came to the house, where finding not the doore open (when 
they lifted up the Latch) as they expected, they thrust their staves 
under it to lift it from the hookes, but being followed by some persons, 
whom the good man of the house had appointed for that end: yet 
were they boulstred out in this their wicked act by those who set them 
one worke. Notwithstanding they were greatly ashamed when they 
mist of their end. 

But the Lord Christ intending to make his New England Souldiers 
the very wonder of this Age, brought them into greater straites, that 
this Wonder working Providence might the more appeare in their de- 
liverance, for comming a shipboard, and hoiseing saile to accomplish 
their Voyage, in little time after they were tossed and sore beaten with 
a contrary winde, to the losse of the Ships upper worke, with which 
losse and great perill they were driven back againe, the Lord Christ 
intending to confirme their Faith in shewing them, that although they 
were brought back, as it were into the mouth of their enemies, yet 
hee could hide them from the hand of the Hunter, for the space of 
six moneths longer or thereabout, even till the Spring of the yeare 
following, at which time (God willing) you shall hear of them againe, 
in the meane time the Master, and other Sea men made a strange 
construction of the sore storme they met withall, saying, their Ship 
was bewitched, and therefore made use of the common Charme 
ignorant people use, nailing two red hot horseshoos to their maine 
mast. But assuredly it was the Lord Christ, who hath command both 
of Winds and Seas, and now would have his poeple know he hath 
delivered, and will deliver from so great a death.... 


Cuap. XXXVI. 


OF THE LABORIOUS WORKE CHRISTS PEOPLE HAVE IN PLANTING 
THIS WILDERNESSE, SET FORTH IN THE BUILDING THE ‘TOWNE 
OF CONCORD, BEING THE FIRST IN-LAND TOWNE. 


Now because it is one of the admirable acts of Christ Providence 
in leading his people forth into these Westerne Fields, in his provid- 
ing of Huts for them, to defend them from the bitter stormes this 
place is subject unto, therefore here is a short Epitome of the manner 
how they placed downe their dwellings in this Desart Wildernesse, 


History 153 
the Lord being pleased to hide from the Eyes of his people the diffi- 


culties they are to encounter withall in a new Plantation, that they 
might not thereby be hindered from taking the worke in hand; upon 
some inquiry of the Indians, who lived to the North-west of the Bay, 
one Captaine Simon Willard being acquainted with them, by reason 
of his Trade, became a chiefe instrument in erecting this Town, the 
land they purchase of the Indians, and with much difficulties traveling 
through unknowne woods, and through watery scrampes, they dis- 
cover the fitnesse of the place, sometimes passing through the Thickets, 
where their hands are forced to make way for their bodies passage, 
and their feete clambering over the crossed Trees, which when they 
missed they sunke into an uncertaine bottome in water, and wade 
up to the knees, tumbling sometimes higher and sometines lower, 
wearied with this toile, they at end of this meete with a scorching 
plaine, yet not so plaine, but that the ragged Bushes scratch their legs 
fouly, even to wearing their stockings to their bare skin in two or 
three houres; if they be not otherwise well defended with Bootes, or 
Buskings, their flesh will be torne: (that some being forced to passe 
on without further provision) have had the bloud trickle downe at 
every step, and in the time of Summer the Sun casts such a reflect- 
ing heate from the sweet Ferne, whose scent is very strong so that 
some herewith have beene very nere fainting, although very able 
bodies to undergoe much travell, and this not to be indured for one 
day, but for many, and verily did not the Lord incourage their naturall 
parts (with hopes of a new and strange discovery, expecting every 
houre to see some rare sight never seene before) they were never able 
to hold out, and breake through: but above all, the thirsting desires 
these servants of Christ have had to Plant his Churches, among whom 
the forenamed Mr. Jones shall not be forgotten. 


In Desart’s depth where Wolves and Beares abide, 

There Jones sits down a wary watch to keepe, 
O’re Christs deare flock, who now are wandered wide; 

But not from him, whose eyes ne’re close with sleepe. 
Surely it sutes thy melancholly minde, 

Thus solitary for to spend thy dayes, 
Much more thy soule in Christ content doth finde, 

To worke for him, who thee to joy will raise. 
Leading thy son to Land, yet more remote, 

To feede his flock upon this Westerne wast: 
Exhort him then Christs Kingdome to promote; 

That he with thee of lasting joyes may tast. 


154 The Puritans 


Yet farther to tell of the hard labours this people found in Planting 
this Wildernesse, after some dayes spent in search, toyling in the day 
time as formerly is said; like true facob, its they rest them one the 
Rocks where the night takes them, their short repast is some small 
pittance of Bread, if it hold out, but as for Drinke they have plenty, 
the Countrey being well watered in all places that yet are found out, 
their farther hardship is to travell, sometimes they know not whether, 
bewildred indeed without sight of Sun, their.compasse miscarrying in 
crouding through the Bushes, they sadly search up and down for a 
known way, the Indians paths being not above one foot broad, so that — 
a man may travell many dayes and never find one. But to be sure the 
directing Providence of Christ hath beene better unto them than many 
paths, as might here be inserted, did not hast call my Pen away to 
more waighty matters; yet by the way a touch thus, it befell with a 
servant maide, who was travelling about three or foure miles from 
one ‘l'owne to another, loosing her selfe in the Woods, had very dili= 
gent search made after her for the space of three dayes, and could 
not possible be found, then being given over as quite lost, after three 
dayes and nights, the Lord was pleased to bring her feeble body to 
her own home in safety, to the great admiration of all that heard of 
it. This intricate worke no whit daunted these resolved servants of 
Christ to goe on with the worke in hand, but lying in the open aire, 
while the watery Clouds poure down all the night season, and some- 
times the driving Snow dissolving on their backs, they keep their wet 
cloathes warme with a continued fire, till the renewed morning give 
fresh opportunity of further travell; after they have thus found out a 
place of aboad, they burrow themselves in the Earth for their first 
shelter under some Hill-side, casting the Earth aloft upon Timber; 
they make a smoaky fire against the Earth at the highest side, and 
thus these poore servants of Christ provide shelter for themselves, their 
Wives and little ones, keeping off the short showers from their Lodgings, 
but the long raines penetrate through, to their great disturbance in 
the night season: yet in these poore Wigwames (they sing Psalmes, 
pray and praise their God) till they can provide them houses, which 
ordinarily was not wont to be with many till the Earth, by the Lords 
blessing, brought forth Bread to feed them, their Wives and little ones, 
which with sore labours they attaine every one that can lift a hawe 
to strike it into the Earth, standing stoutly to their labours, and teare 
up the Rootes and Bushes, which the first yeare beares them a very 
thin crop, till the soard of the Earth be rotten, and therefore they 
have been forced to cut their bread very thin for a long season. But 


History Mo : 155 


the Lord is pleased to provide for them great store of Fish in the 
spring time, and especially Alewives about the bignesse of a Herring, 
many thousands of these, they used to put under their Indian Corne, 
which they plant in Hills five foote asunder, and assuredly when the 
Lord created this Corne, hee had a speciall eye to supply these his 
peoples wants with it, for ordinarily five or six graines doth produce 
six hundred. 

_As for flesh they looked not for any in those times (although now 
they have plenty) unlesse they could barter with the Jndzans for Venison 
or Rockoons, whose flesh is not much inferiour unto Lambe, the toile 
of a new Plantation being like the labours of Hercules never at an end, 
yet are none so barbarously bent (under the Mattacusets especially) 
but with a new Plantation they ordinarily gather into Church-fellow- 
ship, so that Pastors and people suffer the inconveniences together, 
which is a great meanes to season the sore labours they undergoe, 
and verily the edge of their appetite was greater to spirituall duties 
at their first comming in time of wants, than afterward: many in 
new Plantations have been forced to go barefoot, and bareleg, till 
these latter dayes, and some in time of Frost and Snow: Yet were they 
then very healthy more then now they are: in this Wildernesse-worke 
men of Estates speed no better than others, and some much worse 
for want of being inured to such hard labour, having laid out their 
estate upon cattell at five and twenty pound a Cow, when they came 
to winter them with in-land Hay, and feed upon such wild Fother as 
was never cut before, they could not hold out the Winter, but ordinarily 
the first or second yeare after their comming up to a new Plantation, 
many of their Cattell died, especially if they wanted Salt-marshes: 
and also those, who supposed they should feed upon Swines flesh were 
cut short, the Wolves commonly feasting themselves before them, who 
never leave neither flesh nor bones, if they be not scared away before 
they have made an end of their meale, as for those who laid out their 
Estate upon Sheepe, they speed worst of any at the beginning (al- 
though some have sped the best of any now) for untill the Land be 
often fed with other Cattell Sheepe cannot live; And therefore they 
never thrived till these latter dayes; Horse had then no better successe, 
which made many an honest Gentleman travell a foot for a long time, 
and some have even perished with extreame heate in their travells: 
as also the want of English graine, Wheate, Barly and Rie proved a 
sore affliction to some stomacks, who. could not live upon Indian Bread 
and water, yet were they compelled to it till Cattell increased, and 
the Plowes could but goe: instead of Apples and Peares, they had 


156 The Puritans 


Pomkins and Squashes of divers kinds, their lonesome condition was 
very grievous to some, which was much aggravated by continuall feare 
of the Indians approach, whose cruelties were much spoken of, and 
more especially during the time of the Pegot wars. 

Thus this poore people populate this howling Desart, marching man- 
fully on (the Lord assisting) through the greatest difficulties, and sorest 
labours that ever any with such weak means have done... . 


Cuap. LXII. 


OF SAD EFFECTS OF THE PITIFULL AND ERRONIOUS DOCTRINES 
BROACHED BY THE SECTUARIES. 


The number of these infectious persons increasing now, haveing 
drawn a great party on their side, and some considerable persons 
they grow bold, and dare question the sound and wholesome truths 
delivered in publick by the Ministers of Christ. Their Church-meetings 
are full of Disputes in points of difference, and their love-Feasts are 
not free from spots, in their Courts of civill Justice some men utter 
their Speeches in matters of Religion very ambiguously, and among 
all sorts of persons a great talke of new light, but verily it proved but 
old darknesse, such as sometime overshadowed the City of Munster; 5 
But blessed be the Lord Christ, who now declared himselfe to be a helpe 
at hand for his poore New England Churches, being now in their in- 
fancy, whose condition at present was very dolorous, and full of diffi- 
culties, insomuch that the better part of this new transported people 
stood still many of them gazing one upon another, like Sheepe let 
loose to feed on fresh pasture, being stopped and startled in their 
course by a Kennell of devouring Wolves. The weaker sort wavered 
much, and such as were more growne Christians hardly durst dis- 
cover the truth they held one unto another, the fogs of errour increasing 
the bright beames of the glorious Gospell of our Lord Christ in the 
Mouth of his Ministers could not be discerned through this thick mist 
by many, and that sweete refreshing warmth that was formerly felt 
from the spirits influence, was now turned (in these Erronists) to a 
hot inflamation of their owne conceited Revelations, ulcerating and 
bringing little lesse then frenzy or madnesse to the patient, the Con- 
gregation of the people of God began to be forsaken, and the weaker 
Sex prevailed so farre, that they set up a Priest of their own Profession 
and Sex, who was much thronged after, abominably wresting the 
Scriptures to their own destruction: this Master-piece of Womens wit, 
drew many Disciples after her, and to that end boldly insinuated her 


History 157 


selfe into the favour of none of the meanest, being also backed with 
the Sorcery of a second, who had much converse with the Devill by her 
own confession, and did, to the admiration of those that heard her, 
utter many speeches in the Latine Tongue, as it were in a trance.... 

Oh yee New England Men and Women, who hath bewitched you 
that you should not obey the truth? And indeed Satan, to make sure 
worke with semblance of Preaching the Doctrine of Free-gree by his 
instruments, makes shew of out-bidding all the Orthodox, and godly 
Ministers in the Countrey, pretending their Preaching to be but a 
Covenant of workes, supposing by this meanes to silence them without 
a Bishop, and lest the civill power should stand up for their aid, they 
threaten. them with the high displeasure of Christ for persecuting his 
people, which as they said these erronious persons with their new light, 
were the onely Men and Women that were pure Gospell Preachers. 
Thus the poore people of Christ, who kept close to his antient truths 
invironed with many straites, having expended their Estates to voyage 
far through the perillous Seas, that their eyes might behold their 
Teachers, and that they might injoy the protection of a godly civill 
Government, began to deeme themselves in a more dolorous condi- 
tion then when they were in the Commissaries Court, and Prelates 
Prisons, the hideous waves in which their brittle Barques were some- 
times covered, as they passed hither, were nothing so terrible in the 
apprehension of some as was this floud of errors violently beating 
against the bankes of Church and civill Government, the wants of 
this Wildernesse, and pinching penury in misse of Bread, put them 
to no such paine by gnawing on their empty stomacks, with feare of 
famishing, as did the misse of the Administration of Christ in his Word 
and Ordinances, leaving the soule in a languishing condition for want 
of a continuall supply of Christ in his Graces. 


CuHap. LXIII. 


OF THE SORROWFULL CONDITION OF THE PEOPLE OF CHRIST, 
WHEN THEY WERE INCOUNTRED WITH THESE ERRONISTS 
AT THEIR FIRST LANDING. 


But to end this dismall yeare of sixteene hundred thirty six, take 
here the sorrowfull complaint of a poore Soule in misse of its expecta- 
tion at landing, who being incountered with some of these Erronists 
at his first landing, when he saw that good old way of Christ rejected 
by them, and hee could not skill in that new light, which was the 
common theame of every mans Discourse, hee betooke him to a narrow 


158 The Puritans 


Indian path, in which his serious Meditations soone led him, where 
none but sencelesse Trees and eccohing Rocks make answer to his 
heart-easeing mone. Oh quoth he where am I become, is this the 
place where those Reverend Preachers are fled, that Christ was pleased 
to make use of to rouse up his rich graces in many a drooping soule; 
here I have met: with some that tell mee, I must take a naked Christ. 
Oh, woe is mee if Christ be naked to mee, wherewith shall I be cloathed, 
but methinks I most wonder they tell me of casting of all godly sorrow 
for sin as unbeseeming a Soule, that is united to Christ by Faith, and 
there was a little nimbled tongued Woman among them, who said _ 
she could bring me acquainted with one of her own Sex that would 
shew me a way, if I could attaine it, even Revelations, full of such 
ravishing joy that I should never have cause to be sorry for sinne, 
so long as I live, and as for her part shee had attained it already: 
a company of legall Professors, quoth she lie poring on the Law which 
Christ hath abolished, and when you breake it then you breake your 
joy, and now no way will serve your turne, but a deepe sorrow. These 
and divers other expressions intimate unto men, that here I shall finde 
little increase in the Graces of Christ, through the hearing of his word 
Preached, and other of his blessed Ordinances. Oh cunning Devill, 
the Lord Christ rebuke thee, that under pretence of a free and ample 
Gospell shuts out the Soule from partaking with the Divine Nature 
of Christ, in that mysticall Union of his Blessed Spirit creating, and 
continuing his Graces in the Soule: my deare Christ, it was thy worke 
that moved me hither to come, hoping to finde thy powerfull presence 
in the Preaching of the Word, although administred by sorry men, 
subject to like infirmities with others of Gods people, and also by the 
glasse of the Law, to have my sinfull corrupt nature discovered daily 
more and more, and my utter inabillity of any thing that is good, 
magnifying hereby the free grace of Christ; who of his good will and 
pleasure worketh in us to will, and to doe working all our works in 
us, and for us. 

But here they tell me of a naked Christ, what is the whole life of a 
Christian upon this Earth? But through the power of Christ to die to 
sinne, and live to holinesse and righteousnesse, and for that end to 
be diligent in the use of meanes: at the uttering of this word he starts 
up from the greene bed of his complaint with resolution to hear some 
one of these able Ministers Preach (whom report had so valued) before 
his will should make choyce of any one principle, though of crossing 
the broade Seas back againe, then turning his face to the Sun, he 
steered his course toward the next Town,° and after some small travell 


History 159 


hee came to a large plaine, no sooner was hee entred thereon, but 
hearing the sound of a Drum he was directed toward it by a broade 
beaten way, following this rode he demands of the next man he met 
what the signall of the Drum ment, the reply was made they had as 
yet no Bell to call men to meeting; and therefore made use of a Drum, 
who is it, quoth hee, Lectures at this Towne. The other replies, I see 
you are a stranger, new come over, seeing you know not the man, 
it is one Mr. Shepheard, verily quoth the other you hit the right, I am 
new’ come over indeed, and have been told since I came most of your 
Ministers are legall Preachers, onely if I mistake not they told me this 
man Preached a finer covenant of workes then the other, but however, 
I shall make what hast I can to heare him. Fare you well, then hasting 
thither hee croudeth through the thickest, where having stayed while 
the glasse was turned up twice, the man was metamorphosed, and 
was faine to hang down the head often, least his watry eyes should 
blab abroad the secret conjunction of his affections, his heart crying 
loud to the Lords ecchoing answer, to his blessed spirit, that caused 
the Speech of a poore weake pale complectioned man to take such 
impression in his soule at present, by applying the word so aptly, as 
if hee had beene his Privy Counseller, cleering Christs worke of grace 
in the soule from all those false Doctrines, which the erronious party 
had afrighted him withall, and now he resolves (the Lord willing) to 
live and die with the Ministers of New England; whom hee now saw 
the Lord had not onely made zealous to stand for the truth of his 
Discipline, but also of the Doctrine, and not to give ground one 
inchs {7 * 


Book III. 


CuHap. XII. 


OF THE TIME OF THE FALL OF ANTICHRIST, AND THE INCREASE OF 
THE GENTILE CHURCHES, EVEN TO THE PROVOKING OF THE 
TWELVE [TRIBES TO SUBMIT TO THE KINGDOM OF CHRIST. 


It hath been the longing expectation of many, to see that notable 
and wonderfull worke of the Lord Christ, in casting down that man 
of sin who hath held the whole world (of those that profess any Christ) 
under his Lordly power, while the true professors of Christ have hardly 
had any appearance to the eye of the world; first, take notice the Lord 
hath an assured set time for the accomplishment of this work, which 
is set down in his word, although more darkly to be understood; 


160 The Puritans 


wherefore the reverend Ministers of Christ, for these many yeers have 
studied and laboured for the finding it out, and that holy man of God 
Mr. John Cotton, among many other, hath diligently searched for the 
Lords mind herein, and hath declared some sudden blow to be given 
to this blood-thirsty monster: but the Lord Christ hath unseparably 
joyned the time, meanes, and manner of this work together, and 
therefore all men that expect the day, must attend the means: for such 
hath been and is the absurdity of many, that they make semblance 
of a very zealous affection to see the glorious work of our Lord Christ 

herein, and yet themselves uphold, or at least side with those that — 
uphold some part of Antichrists kingdome: and therefore the lordly 
Prelacy may pray for his fall till their lungs are spent, and their 
throats grow dry. But while they have a seeming shew (and hardly 
that) to oppose his doctrines, they themselves in the mean time, make 
use of his power to advance themselves to honour: as also in these 
dayes there are divers desperate, blasphemous, and erronious persons, 
whose consciences and their own self-will are unseparable companions; 
these are very hot in their own apprehensions to prosecute the work; 
but in the mean time, they not only batter down the truths of Christ, 
and his own Ordinances and Institutions, but also set up that part 
of Antichrists kingdom, which hath formerly had a great blow already, 
even his deceiveable and damnable doctrines: for as one badg of the 
beast is to be full of blasphemies, so are they, and these take unto 
themselves seven spirits worse then the former, making the latter end 
worse then the beginning, as this story may testifie: and some stories 
in our native country much more. But to come to the time of Anti- 
christs fall; and all that expect it may depend upon the certainty of 
it: yea it may be boldly said that the time is come, and all may see 
the dawning of the day: you that long so much for it, come forth and 
fight: who can expect a victory without a battel? the lordly Prelates 
that boasted so much of these great atcheivements in this work, are fled 
into holes and corners: Familists, Seekers, Antinomians and Anabaptists, 
they are so ill armed, that they think it best sleeping in a whole skin, 
fearing that if the day of battell once go on, they shall fall among 
Antichrists Armies: and therefore cry out like cowards, If you will 
let me alone, and I will let you alone; but assuredly the Lord Christ 
hath said, He that is not with us, is against us: there is no room in his 
Army for toleratorists.7? But some will say, We will never believe the 
day is come, till our eyes behold Babylon begirt with Souldiers. I pray 
be not too hasty; hath not the Lord said, Come out of her my people? 
&c, surely there is a little space left for this, and now is the time, seeing 


History 161 


the Lord hath set up his standerd of resort: now, Come forth of her, and 
be not partakers of her sins: now is the time, when the Lord hath as- 
sembled his Saints together; now the Lord will come and not tarry. 
As it was necessary that there should be a Moses and Aaron, before the 
Lord would deliver his people and destroy Pharaoh left they should be 
wildred indeed in the Wilderness; so now it was needfull, that the 
Churches of Christ should first obtain their purity, and the civill 
government its power to defend them, before Antichrist come to his 
finall ruine: and because you shall be sure the day is come indeed, 
behold the Lord Christ marshalling of his invincible Army to the 
battell: some suppose this onely to be mysticall, and not literall at 
all: assuredly the spirituall fight is chiefly to be attended, and the other 
not neglected, having a neer dependancy one upon the other, es- 
pecially at this time; the Ministers of Christ who have cast off all 
lording power over one another, are created field-Officers, whose Office 
is extravagant in this Army, chiefly to encourage the fighting Souldiers, 
and to lead them on upon the enemy in the most advantagious places, 
and bring on fresh supplies in all places of danger, to put the sword 
of the spirit in their Souldiers hands: but Christ (who is their general) 
must onely enable them to use it aright: to give every Souldier in 
charge that they watch over one another, to see that none meddle 
with the execrable things of Antichrist, and this to be performed in 
every Regiment throughout the Army: and not one to exercise do- 
minion over the other by way of superiority: for Christ hath appointed 
a parity in all his Regiments, Gc. let them beware that none go apart 
with rebellious Korah. And further, behold, Kings, Rulers, or Generals 
of Earths Armies, doth Christ make use of in this day of battell, the 
which he hath brought into the field already also; who are appointed 
to defend, uphold, and maintain the whole body of his Armies against 
the insolent, beastly, and bloody cruelty of their insatiable enemies, 
and to keep order that none do his fellow-Souldier any wrong, nor 
that any should raise a mutiny in the hosts. Notwithstanding all this, 
if any shall say, they will not believe the day is come till they see them 
ingage battell with Antichrist; Verily, if the Lord be pleased to open 
your eyes, you may see the beginning of the fight, and what success 
the Armies of our Lord Christ have hitherto had: the Forlorne hopes 
of Antichrists Army, were the proud Prelates of England: the Forlorne 
of Christs Armies, were these JV. E. people, who are the subject of this 
History, which encountring each other for some space of time, ours 
being overpowered with multitude, were forced to retreat to a place 
of greater safety, where they waited for a fresh opportunity to ingage 


162 The Puritans 


with the main battell of Antichrist, so soon as the Lord shall be pleased 
to give a word of Command. Immediately upon this success, the Lord 
Christ was pleased to command the right Wing of his Army, to ad- 
vance against the left Wing of Antichrist: where in his former forlorn 
hopes of proud Prelates lay: these by our right Wing had their first 
pay (for that they had done to our forlorne before) being quite over- 
thrown and cut in peices by the valiant of the Lord in our right 
Wing, and still remain fighting. Thus far of the battell of Antichrist, 


and the various success: what the issue will be, is assuredly known in 


the generall already. Babylon is fallen, the God of truth hath said it; 
then who would not be a Souldier on Christs side, where is such a 
certainty of victory? nay I can tell you a farther word of encourage- 
ment, every true-hearted Souldier that falls by the sword in this fight, 
shall not lye dead long, but stand upon his feet again, and be made 
partaker of the triumph of this Victory: and none can be overcome, 
but by turning his back in fight. And for a word of terrour to the enemy, 
let them know, Christ will never give over the raising of fresh Forces, 
till they are overthrown root and branch. And now you antient people 
of Israel look out of your Prison grates, let these Armies of the Lord 
Christ Jesus provoke you to acknowledge he is certainly come, I and 
speedily he doth come to put life into your dry bones: here is a people 
not onely praying but fighting for you, that the great block may be 
removed out of the way, (which hath hindered hitherto) that they 
with you may enjoy that glorious resurrection-day, the glorious nup- 
tials of the Lamb: when not only the Bridegroom shall appear to his 
Churches both of Jews and Gentiles, (which are his spouse) in a more 
brighter aray then ever heretofore, but also his Bride shall be clothed 
by him in the richest garments that ever the Sons of men put on, even 
the glorious graces of Christ Jesus, in such a glorious splendor to the 
eyes of man, that they shall see and glorifie the Father of both Bride- 
groom and Bride. 


COTTON MATHER, 1663-1728 


[Cotton Mather’s very name is a proclamation of his standing in 
seventeenth-century New England; the grandson of John Cotton, and 
of Richard Mather, ‘the first minister of Dorchester, the son of In- 
crease Mather, minister of the North Church in Boston and President 
of Harvard College, Cotton was born in the clerical purple. Educated 
at home by his very learned father, at the age of twelve he entered 
Harvard, where it is said he was better liked by his tutors than by his 


History . 163 


fellow students. He took his M.A. in 1681, was ordained the colleague 
of his father in 1685 and married his first wife in 1686; along with 
his father he soon became a leader of orthodox opinion in eastern Massa- 
chusetts. He was active in the Revolution of 1689, and was made 
Fellow of Harvard College in 1690. After 1700 the Mathers suffered 
many reverses; when Increase was forced out of Harvard College Cot- 
ton, not being chosen President as he had expected he would be, resigned 
his fellowship. Governor Dudley was his enemy; his last days were 
embittered by the restriction of his influence, the insanity of his third 
‘ wife, the profligacy of his favourite son. He was an indefatigable 
worker, publishing some five hundred books, tracts, and pamphlets, 
corresponding with learned men all over Europe, contributing to 
the Transactions of the Royal Society, to which he was elected in 1713. 
In 1721 he and his father made a heroic fight for smallpox inocula- 
tion against the enraged hostility of the majority of the citizens. For 
biography cf. Barrett Wendell, Cotton Mather the Puritan Priest (New 
York, 1891). This text is from Magnalia Christi Americana; or, the Ec- 
clesiastical History of New England (London, 1702).] 


A GENERAL INTRODUCTION 


§. 1. I write the Wonders of the CuristiAn Re ticion, flying from 
the Depravations of Europe, to the American Strand: And, assisted by 
the Holy Author of that Religion, I do, with all Conscience of Truth, 
required therein by Him, who is the Truth it self, Report the Wonderful 
Displays of His Infinite Power, Wisdom, Goodness, and Faithfulness, 
wherewith His Divine Providence hath Irradiated an Indian Wilderness. 

I Relate the Considerable Matters, that produced and attended the 
First Settlement of CoLonizs, which have been Renowned for the 
Degree of REFORMATION, Professed and Attained by Evangelical Churches, 
erected in those Ends of the Earth: And a Field being thus prepared, 
I proceed unto a Relation of the Considerable Matters which have been 
acted thereupon. 

I first introduce the Actors, that have, in a more exemplary manner 
served those Colonies; and give Remarkable Occurrences, in the exemplary 
Lives of many Magistrates, and of more Ministers, who so Lived, as to 
leave unto Posterity, Examples worthy of Everlasting Remembrance. 

I add hereunto; the Notables of the only Protestant University, that 
ever shone in that Hemisphere of the New World; with particular In- 
stances of Criolians,' in our Biography, provoking the whole World, with 
vertuous Objects of Emulation. 


164 The Puritans 


I introduce then, the Actions of a more Eminent Importance, that 
have signalized those Colonies; Whether the Establishments, directed by 
their Synods; with a Rich Variety of Synodical and Ecclesiastical Deter- 
minations; or, the Dizsturbances, with which they have been from all 
sorts of Temptations and Enemies Tempestuated; and the Methods by 
which they have still weathered out each Horrible Tempest. 

And into the midst of these Actions, I interpose an entire Book, 
wherein there is, with all possible Veracity, a Collection made, of 
Memorable Occurrences, and amazing Judgments and Mercies, befalling 
many particular Persons among the People of New-England. | 

Let my Readers expect all that I have promised them, in this Bill 
of Fair; and it may be they will find themselves entertained with yet 
many other Passages, above and beyond their Expectation, deserving 
likewise a room in History: In all which, there will be nothing. but 
the Author’s too mean way of preparing so great Entertainments, to 
Reproach the Invitation. 

§. 2. The Reader will doubtless desire to know, what it was that 


tot Volvere casus 
Insignes Pretate Viros, tot adire Labores, 
Impulerit.? 


And our History shall, on many fit Occasions which will be therein 
offered, endeavour, with all Historical Fidelity and Simplicity, and 
with as little Offence as may be, to satisfie him. The Sum of the Matter 
is, That from the very Beginning of the REFORMATION in the English 
Nation, there hath always been a Generation of Godly Men, desirous 
to pursue the Reformation of Religion, according to the Word of God, and 
the Example of the best Reformed Churches; and answering the Character 
of Good Men, given by Josephus, in his Paraphrase on the words. of 
Samuel to Saul, yndev &ddo rpaxOhcecOar Karas by’ éavT&v vopitovres: 4 
drt dv rowpowor Tov Oeod Kexedevxdros. They think they do nothing Right in the 
Service of God, but what they do according to the Command of God. And there 
hath been another Generation of Men, who have still employed the 
Power which they have generally still had in their Hands, not only to 
stop the Progress of the Desired Reformation, but also, with Innumer- 
able Vexations, to Persecute those that most Heartily wished well unto 
it. There were many of the Reformers, who joyned with the Reverend 
Joun Fox,? in the Complaints which he then entred in his Martyrology, 
about the Baits of Popery yet left in the Church; and in his Wishes, God 
take them away, or ease us from them, for God knows, they be the Cause of much 
Blindness and Strife amongst Men! They Zealously decreed the Policy of 


History 165 


complying always with the Jgnorance and Vanity of the People; and cried 
out earnestly for Purer Administrations in the House of God, and more 
Conformity to the Law of Christ, and Primitive Christianity; While others 
would not hear of going any further than the First Essay of Reformation. 
Tis very certain, that the First Reformers never intended, that what They 
did, should be the Absolute Boundary of Reformation, so that it should be 
a Sin to proceed any further; as, by their own going beyond Wickiift,‘ 
and Changing and Growing in their own Models also, and the Con- 
fessions of Cranmer, with the Scripta Anglicana of Bucer, and a thousand _ 
other things, was abundantly demonstrated. But after a Fruitless Ex- 
pectation, wherein the truest Friends of the Reformation long waited, 
for to have that which Heylin > himself owns to have been the Design 
of the First Reformers, followed as it should have been, a Party very 
unjustly arrogating to themselves, the Venerable Name of, The Church 
of England, by Numberless Oppressions, grievously Smote those their 
Fellow-Servants. Then twas that, as our Great Owen © hath expressed 
it, Multitudes of Pious, Peaceable Protestants, were driven, by their Severities, 
_ to leave their Native Country, and seek a Refuge for their Lives and Liberties, 
with Freedom, for the Worship of God, in a Wilderness, in the Ends of the 
Earth. 

§. 3. It is the History of these PRoTEsTANTs, that is here attempted: 
Protestants that highly honoured and affected The Church of ENc- 
LAND, and humbly Petition to be a Part of it: But by the Mistake of a 
few powerful Brethren, driven to seek a place for the Exercise of the 
Protestant Religion, according to the Light of their Consciences, in the 
Desarts of America. And in this Attempt I have proposed, not only to 
preserve and secure the Interest of Religion, in the Churches of that 
little Country NEw-ENGLAND, so far as the Lord Jesus Christ may 
please to Bless it for that End, but also to offer unto the Churches 
of the Reformation, abroad in the World, some small Memorials, that 
may be serviceable unto the Designs of Reformation, whereto, I believe, 
they are quickly to be awakened. I am far from any such Boast, con- 
cerning these Churches, That they have Need of Nothing, I wish their 
Works were more perfect before God. Indeed, that which Austin called 
The Perfection of Christians, is like to be, until the Term for the Anti- 
christian Apostasie be expired, The Perfection of Churches too; Ut Agnoscant 
se nunquam esse perfectas.’ Nevertheless, I perswade my self, that so far 
as they have attained, they have given Great Examples of the Methods and 
Measures, wherein an Evangelical Reformation is to be prosecuted, and of 
the Qualifications requisite in the Instruments that are to prosecute it, 
and of the Difficulties which may be most likely to obstruct it, and the 


166 The Puritans 


most likely Directions and Remedies for those Obstructions. It may be, 
tis not possible for me to do a greater Service unto the Churches on the 
Best Island of the Universe, than to give a distinct Relation of those 
Great Examples which have been occurring among Churches of Exiles, 
that were driven out of that Island, into an horrible Wilderness, meerly 
for their being Well-willers unto the Reformation. When that Blessed 
Martyr Constantine was carried, with other Martyrs, in a Dung-Cart, 
unto the place of Execution, he pleasantly ‘said, Well, yet we are a. 
precious Odour to God in Christ. Tho’ the Reformed Churches in the American 
Regions, have, by very Injurious Representations of their Brethren (all 
which they desire to Forget and Forgive!) been many times thrown 
into a Dung-Cart; yet, as they have been a precious Odour to God in 
Christ, so, I hope, they will be a preczous Odour unto His People; and not 
only Precious, but Useful also, when the History of them shall come to 
be considered. A Reformation of the Church is coming on, and I cannot” 
but thereupon say, with the dying Cyrus to his Children in Xenophon, 
"EK Tay mpoyeyevnuevav pavOavere, aut yap apistn didacKkaNia. Learn 
from the things that have been done already, for this is the best way of Learn- 
ing. ‘The Reader hath here an Account of The Things that have been done 
already. Bernard upon that Clause in the Canticles, [O thou fairest among 
Women] has this ingenious Gloss, Pulchram, non omnimode quidem, sed 
pulchram inter mulweres eam docet, videlicet cum Distinctione, quatenus ex hoc 
amplius reprimatur, & sciat quid desit sibt.2 ‘Thus I do not say, That the 
Churches of New-England are the most Regular that can be; yet I do 
say, and am sure, That they are very like unto those that were in the 
First Ages of Christianity. And if I assert,,That in the Reformation of 
the Church, the State of it in those First Ages, is to be not a little con- 
sidered, the Great Peter Ramus,° among others, has emboldened me. For 
when the Cardinal of Lorrain, the Macenas of that Great Man, was of- 
fended at him, for turning Protestant, he replied, Inter Opes illas, quibus 
me ditasti, has etiam in @ternum recordabor, quod Beneficio, Poesstace Respon- 
sionis tue didici, de Quindecim a Christo seculis, primum vere -esse aureum, Re- 
liqua, quo longius abscederent esse nequiora, atque deteriora: Tum igitur cum 
fieret optio, Aureum seculum delegt.'° In short, The First Age was the Golden 
Age: To return unto That, will make a Man a Protestant, and I may add, 
a Puritan. *Tis possible, That our Lord Jesus Christ carried some Thou- 
sands of Reformers into the Retirements of an American Desart, on purpose, 
that, with an opportunity granted unto many of his Faithful Servants, 
to enjoy the precious Liberty of their Ministry, tho’ in the midst of many 
Temptations all their days, He might there, Jo them first, and then By 
them, give a Specimen of many Good Things, which He would have His 


History 167 


Churches elsewhere aspire and arise unto: And This being done, He 
knows not whether there be not All done, that New-England was planted 
for; and whether the Plantation may not, soon after this, Come to Noth- 
ing. Upon that Expression in the Sacred Scripture, Cast the unprofitable 
Servant into Outer Darkness, it hath been imagined by some, That the 
Regiones Extere' of America, are the Tenebre Exteriores,!* which the 
Unprofitable are there condemned unto. No doubt, the Authors of those 
Ecclesiastical Impositions and Severities, which drove the English 
Christians into the Dark Regions of America, esteemed those Christians 
to be a very unprofitable sort of Creatures. But behold, ye European 
Churches. There are Golden Candlesticks [more than twice Seven times 
Seven!| in the midst of this Outer Darkness: Unto the upright Children 
of Abraham, here hath arisen Light in Darkness. And let us humbly speak 
it, it shall be Profitable for you to consider the Light, which from the 
midst of this Outer Darkness, is now to be Darted over unto the other 
side of the Atlantick Ocean. But we must therewithal ask your Prayers, 
that these Golden Candlesticks may not quickly be Removed out of their 
place! | 

§. 4. But whether New England may Live any where else or no, it 
must Live in our History! 

History, in general, hath had so many and mighty Commendations 
from the Pens of those Numberless Authors, who, from Herodotus to 
Howel,!3 have been the professed Writers of it, that a tenth part of them 
Transcribed, would be a Furniture for a Polyanthea in Folio.1* We, that 
have neither liberty, nor occasion, to quote those Commendations of 
Mistory, will content our selves with the Opinion of one who was not 
much of a profess'd Historian, expressed in that passage, whereto all. 
Mankind subscribe, Historia est Testis temporum, Nuntia vetustatis, Lux 
veritatis, vita memoria, magistra vita.'° But of all History it must be con- 
fessed, that the Palm is to be given unto Church History; wherein the 
Dignity, the Suavity, and the Utility of the Subject is transcendent. I 
observe, that for the Description of the whole World in the Book of 
Genesis, that First-born of all Historians, the great Moses, implies but 
one or two Chapters, whereas he [e]mpl[oyes], it may be seven times 
as many Chapters, in describing that one little Pavilion, The Tabernacle. 
And when I am thinking, what may be the Reason of this Difference, 
methinks it intimates unto us, That the Church wherein the Service 
of God is performed, is much more Precious than the World, which 
was indeed created for the Sake and Use of the Church. ’Tis very cer- 
tain, that the greatest Entertainments must needs occur in the History 


of the People, whom the Son of God hath Redeemed and Purified unto 


168 7 The Puritans 


himself, as a Peculiar People, and whom the Spirit of God, by Super- 
natural Operations upon their Minds, does cause to live like Strangers 
in this World, conforming themselves unto the Truths and Rules of his 
Holy Word, in Expectation of a Kingdom, whereto they shall be in 
another and a better World advanced. Such a People our Lord Jesus 
Christ hath procured and preserved in all Ages wisible; and the Dis- 
pensations of his wonderous Providence towards this People (for, O Lord, 
thou do’st lift them up, and cast them down!) their Calamities, their De- 
liverances, the Dispositions which they have still discovered, and the 
considerable Persons and Actions found among them, cannot but af- — 
ford Matters of Admiration and Admonition, above what any other Story 
can pretend unto: ’Tis nothing but Atheism in the Hearts of Men, 
that can perswade them otherwise. Let any Person of good Sense 
peruse the History of Herodotus, which, like a River taking Rise, where 
the Sacred Records of the Old Testament leave off, runs along smoothly 
and sweetly, with Relations that sometimes perhaps want an Apology, 
down until the Grecians drive the Persians before them. Let him then 
peruse Thucydides, who from Acting betook himself to Writing, and 
carries the ancient State of the Grecians, down to the twenty first Year 
of the Peloponnesian Wars in a manner, which Casaubon judges to be 
Mirandum potius quam imitandum,'© Let him next Revolve Xenophon, that 
Bee of Athens, who continues a Narrative of the Greek Affairs, from 
the Peloponnesian Wars, to the Battle of Mantinea, and gives us a Cyrus 
into the bargain, at such a rate, that Lipsius reckons the Character 
of a Suavi, Fidus G Circumspectus Scriptor,’ to belong unto him. Let 
him from hence proceed unto Diodorus Siculus, who, besides a rich 
Treasure of Egyptian, Assyrian, Lybian and Grecian, and other Antiquities, 
in a Phrase, which according to Photius’s Judgment, is istopia wadusT a, 
aperovon, of all most becoming an Historian, carries on the Thread begun 
by his Predecessors, until the End of the Hundred and nineteenth 
Olympiad; and where he is defective, let it be supplied from Arzanus, 
from Justin, and from Curtius, who in the relish of Colerus is, Quovis 
melle dulcior.1® Let him hereupon consult Polybius, and acquaint him- 
self with the Birth and Growth of the Roman Empire, as far as ’tis de- 
scribed, in Five of the Forty Books composed by an Author, who with 
a Learned Professor of History is, Prudens Scriptor, st quis alius.1° Let him 
now run over the Table of the Roman Affairs, compendiously given 
by Lucius Florus, and then let him consider the Transactions of above 
three hundred Years reported by Dionysius Halicarnasseus, who, if the 
Censure of Bodin may be taken, Grecos omnes G Latinos superasse videatur.” 
Let him from hence pass to Livy, of whom the famous Critick says, 


History | 169 


Hoc solum ingenium (de Historicis Loquor) populus Romanus par Imperio suo 
habuit,71 and supply those of his Decads that are lost, from the best 
Fragments of Antiquity, in others (and especially Dion and Salust) 
that lead us on still further in our way. Let him then proceed unto 
the Writers of the Cesarean times, and first revolve Suetonius, then Tacitus, 
then Herodian, then a whole Army more of Historians, which now crowd 
into our Library; and unto all the rest, let him not fail of adding the 
Incomparable Plutarch, whose Books they say, Theodore Gaza preferred 
above any in the World, next unto the Inspired Oracles of the Bzble: 
But if the Number be still too little to satisfie an Historical Appetite, 
let him add Polyhistor unto the number, and all the Chronicles of the 
following Ages. After all, he must sensibly acknowledge, that the two 
short Books of Ecclesiastical History, written by the Evangelist Luke, 
hath given us more glorious Entertainments, than all these voluminous 
Historians if they were put all together. The Atchievements of one Paul 
particularly, which that Evangelist hath Emblazon’d, have more True 
Glory in them, than all the Acts of those Execrable Plunderers and 
Murderers, and irresistible Bandittt of the World, which have been dig- 
nified with the Name of Conquerors. Tacitus counted Ingentia bella, Ex- 
pugnationes urbium, fusos captosque Reges,” the Ravages of War, and the 
glorious Violences, whereof great Warriors make a wretched Ostenta- 
tion, to be the WNoblest Matter for an Historian. But there is a Nobler, 
I humbly conceive, in the planting and forming of Evangelical Churches, 
and the Temptations, the Corruptions, the Afflictions, which assault them, 
and their Salvations from those Assaults, and the Exemplary Lives of 
those that Heaven employs to be Patterns of Holiness and Usefulness 
upon Earth: And unto such it is, that I now invite my Readers; 
Things, in comparison whereof, the Subjects of many other Histories, 
are of as little weight, as the Questions about Z, the last Letter of our 
Alphabet, and whether H is to be pronounced with an Aspiration, 
where about whole Volumes have been written, and of no more Ac- 
count, than the Composure of Didymus.*3 But for the manner of my 
treating this Matter, I must now give some account unto him. 

§. 5. Reader! I have done the part of an Impartial Historian, albeit 
not without all occasion perhaps, for the Rule which a worthy Writer, 
in his Historica, gives to every Reader, Historici Legantur cum Modera- 
tione & venia, & cogitetur fieri non posse ut in omnibus circumstantiis sint 
Lymei.** Polybius complains of those Historians, who always made either 
the Carthagenians brave, and the Romans base, or é contra, in all their 
Actions, as their Affection for their own Party led them. I have en- 
deavoured, with all good Conscience, to decline this writing meerly for 


170 The Puritans 


a Party, or doing like the Dealer in History, whom Lucian derides, for 
always calling the Captain of his own Party an Achilles, but of the 
adverse Party a Thersites: Nor have I added unto the just Provoca- 
tions for the Complaint made by the Baron Maurier, That the greatest 
part of Histories are but so many Panegyricks composed by Interested 
Hands, which elevate Iniquity to the Heavens, like Paterculus, and like 
Machiavel, who propose Tiberius Cesar, and Cesar Borgia, as Examples 
fit for Imitiation, whereas True History would have Exhibited them as 
Horrid Monsters as very Devils. *Tis true, I am not of the Opinion, 
that one cannot merit the Name of an Impartial Historian, except he 
write bare Matters of Fact, without all Reflection; for I can tell where 
to find this given as the Definition of History, Historia est rerum gestarum, 
cum laude aut vituperatione, Narratio:*° And if I am not altogether a Tacitus, 
when Vertues or Vices occur to be Matters of Reflection, as well as of 
Relation, I will, for my Vindication, appeal to Tacitus himself, whom 
Lipsius calls one of the Prudentest (tho’ Tertullian, long before, counts 
him the Lyingest) of them who have Inriched the World with History: 
He says, Precipuum munus Annalium reor, ne virtutes sileantur, utque pravis 
Dictis, Factisque ex posteritaie G Infamia metus sit.27 I have not Commended 
any Person, but when I have really judg’d, not only That he Deserved 
it, but also that it would be a Benefit unto Posterity to know, Wherein 
he deserved it: And my Judgment of Desert, hath not been Brassed, 
by Persons being of my own particular Judgment in matters of Dizs- 
putation, among the Churches of God. I have been as willing to wear 
the Name of Simplicius Verinus,® throughout my whole undertaking, 
as he that, before me, hath assumed it: Nor am I like Pope <achary, 
impatient so much as to hear of any Antzpodes.”® The Spirit of a Schlussel- 
bergius,*° who falls foul with Fury and Reproach on all who differ 
from him; The Spirit of an Heylin,> who seems to count no Obloquy 
too hard for a Reformer; and the Spirit of those (Folzo-writers there are, 
some of them, in the English Nation!) whom a Noble Historian Stig- 
matizes, as, Those Hot-headed, Passionate Bigots, from whom, tis enough, 
if you be of a Religion contrary unto theirs, to be defamed, condemned and 
pursued with a thousand Calumnies. 1 thank Heaven I Hate it with all 
my Heart. But how can the Lives of the Commendable be written with- 
out Commending them? Or, is that Law of History given in one of the 
eminentest pieces of Antiquity we now have in our hands, wholly anti-- 
quated, Maxime proprium est Historia, Laudem rerum egregie gestarum per- 
sequi? 1 Nor have I, on the other side, forbore to mention many 
Censurable things, even in the Best of my Friends, when the things, in 
my opinion, were not Good; or so bore away for Placentia, in the course 


History 171 


of our Story, as to pass by Verona; ** but been mindful of the Direction 
which Polybius gives to the Historian, Jt becomes him that writes an His- 
tory, sometimes to extol Enemies in his Praises, when their praise-worthy Ac- 
tions bespeak it, and at the same time to reprove the best Friends, when their 
Deeds appear worthy of a reproof; in-as much as History is good for nothing, 
if Truth (which is the very Eye of the Animal) be not in it. Indeed I have 
thought it my duty upon all accounts, (and if it have proceeded unto 
the degree of a Fault, there is, it may be, something in my Temper and 
Nature, that-has betray’d me therein) to be more sparing and easie, in 
thus mentioning of Censurable things, than in my other Liberty: A writer 
of Church-History, should, I know, be like the buzlder of the Temple, one 
of the Tribe of Naphthali; and for this I will also plead my Polybius 
in my Excuse; It zs not the Work of an Historian, to commemorate the Vices 
and Villanies of Men, so much as their just, their fair, their honest Actions: 
And the Readers of History get more good by the Objects of their Emulation, 
than of their Indignation. Nor do I deny, that tho’ I cannot approve the 
Conduct of Josephus, (whom Jerom not unjustly nor ineptly calls, The 
Greek Livy) when he left out of his Antiguities, the Story of the Golden 
Calf, and I don’t wonder to find Chamier, and Rivet,3> and others, 
taxing him for his Partiality towards his Country-men; yet I have left 
unmentioned some Censurable Occurrences in the Story of our Colonies, as 
things no less Unuseful than Improper to be raised out of the Grave, 
wherein Oblivion hath now buried them; lest I should have incurred 
the Pasquil bestowed upon Pope Urban, who employing a Committee 
to Rip up the Old Errors of his Predecessors, one clap’d a pair of Spurs 
upon the heels of the Statue of St. Peter; and a Label from the Statue 
of St. Paul opposite thereunto, upon the Bridge, ask’d him, Whither 
he was bound? St. Peter answered, I apprehend some Danger in staying here; 
I fear they'll call me in Question for denying my Master. And St. Paul re- 
plied, Nay, then I had best be gone too, for they'll question me also, for Per- 
secuting the Christians before my Conversion.*+ Briefly, My Pen shall Re- 
proach none, that can give a Good Word unto any Good Man that 
is not of their own Faction, and shall Fall out with none, but those that 
can Agree with no body else, except those of their own Schism. If I 
draw any sort of Men with Charcoal, it shall be, because I remember 
a notable passage of the Best Queen that ever was in the World, our 
late Queen Mary. Monsieur Juvien, that he might Justifie the Refor- 
mation in Scotland, made a very black Representation of their old 
Queen Mary; for which, a certain Sycophant would have incensed our 
Queen Mary against that Reverend Person, saying, Is it not a Shame 
that this Man, without any Consideration for your Royal Person, should dare 


172 The Puritans 


to throw such Infamous Calumnies upon a Queen, from whom your Royal 
Highness is descended? But that Excellent Princess replied, No, not ai all; 
Is it not enough that by fulsome Praises great Persons be lull’d asleep all their 
Lives; But must Flattery accompany them to their very Graves? How should 
they fear the Judgment of Posterity, if Historians be not allowed to speak the 
Truth after their Death? But whether I do my self Commend, or whether 
I give my Reader an opportunity to Censure, I am careful above all 
things to do it with Truth; and as I have considered the words of 
Plato, Deum indigne G graviter ferre, cum quis et similem hoc est, virtute 
prestantem, vituperet, aut laudet contrarium:*° So I have had the Ninth — 
Commandment of a greater Law-giver than Plato, to preserve my care of 
Truth from first to last. If any Mistake have been any where com- 
mitted, it will be found meerly Circumstantial, and wholly Involuntary; 
and let it be remembred, that tho’ no Historian ever merited better 
than the Incomparable Thuanus,*° yet learned Men have said of his 
Work, what they never shall truly say of ours, that it contains multa 
falsissima & indigna.*’ I find Erasmus himself mistaking One Man for 
Two, when writing of the Ancients. And even our own English Writers 
too are often mistaken, and in Matters of a very late Importance, as 
Baker, and Heylin, and Fuller, (professed Historians) tell us, that Richard 
Sutton, a single Man, founded the Charter-House; whereas his Name 
was Thomas, and he was a married Man. I think I can Recite such 
Mistakes, it may be Sans Number occurring in the most credible 
Writers; yet I hope I shall commit none such. But altho’ I thus challenge, 
as my due, the Character of an Impartial, 1 doubt I may not challenge 
That of an Elegant Historian. I cannot say, whether the Style, wherein 
this Church-History is written, will please the Modern Criticks: But if 
I seem to have used drdousrary ovvraéa yoagns,** a Simple, Submiss, 
Humble Style, ’tis the same that Eusebius affirms to have been used 
by Hegesippus, who, as far as we understand, was the first Author 
(after Luke) that ever composed an entire Body of Ecclesiastical His- 
tory, which he divided into Five Books, and Entitled, troyvyqpara tov 
éxxAnovastixka@v mpakewv.°? Whereas others, it may be, will reckon the Style 
Embellished with too much of Ornament, by the multiplied Refer- 
ences to other and former Concerns, closely couch’d, for the Observa- 
tion of the Attentive, in almost every Paragraph; but I must confess, 
that I am of his mind who said, Sicutz sal modice cibis aspersus Condit, 
& gratiam saporis addit, ita si paulum Antiquitatis admiscueris, Oratio fit 
venustior.*° And I have seldom seen that Way of Writing faulted, but 
by those, who, for a certain odd Reason, sometimes find fault, That 
the Grapes are not ripe. These Embellishments (of which yet I only— 


History } Tes 


Veniam pro laude peto *) are not the puerile Spoils of Polyanthea’s; but 
I should have asserted them to be as choice Flowers as most that occur 
in Ancient or Modern Writings, almost unavoidably putting them- 
selves into the Authors Hand, while about his Work, if those words 
of Ambrose had not a little frighted me, as well as they did Baronius, 
Unumquemque Fallunt sua scripta.*? I observe that Learned Men have 
been so terrified by the Reproaches of Pedantry, which little Smatterers 
at Reading and Learning have, by their Quoting Humours brought 
upon themselves, that, for to avoid all Approaches towards that which 
those Feeble Creatures have gone to imitate, the best way of Writing 
has been most injuriously deserted. But what shall we say? The Best 
way of Writing, under Heaven, shall be the Worst, when Erasmus his 
Monosyllable Tyrant will have it so! *? And if I should have resign’d 
my self wholly to the Judgment of others, What way of Writing to 
have taken, the Story of the two Statues made by Policletus tells me, 
what may have been the Issue: He contrived one of them according 
to the Rules that best pleased himself, and the other according to 
the Fancy of every one that look’d upon his Work: The former was 
afterwards Applauded by all, and the latter Derided by those very 
Persons who had given their Directions for it. As for such Unaccuracies 
as the Critical may discover, Opere in longo,** I appeal to the Courteous, 
for a favourable Construction of them; and certainly they will be 
favourably Judged of, when there is considered the Variety of my 
other Employments, which have kept me in continual Hurries, I had 
almost said, like those of the Ninth Sphere, for the few Months in which 
this Work has been Digesting. It was a thing well thought, by the wise 
Designers of Chelsey-Colledge, wherein able Historians were one sort of 
Persons to be maintained; That the Romanists do in one Point con- 
demn the Protestants; for among the Romanists, they don’t burden 
their Professors with any Parochial Incumbrances; but among the Protes- 
tants, the very same Individual Man must Preach, Catechize, Administer 
the Sacraments, Visit the Afflicted, and manage all the parts of Church- 
Discipline; and if any Books for the Service of Religion, be written, 
Persons thus extreamly incumbred must be the Writers. Now, of all the 
Churches under Heaven, there are none that expect so much Variety 
of Service from their Pastors, as those of New-England; and of all the 
Churches in New-England, there are none that require more, than 
those in Boston, the Metropolis of the English America; whereof one 
is, by the Lord Jesus Christ, committed unto the Care of the unworthy 
Hand, by which this History is compiled. Reader, Give me leave humbly 
to mention, with him in Tully, Antequam de Re, Pauca de Me! *° Con- 


174 The Puritans 


stant Sermons, usually more than once, and perhaps three or four times, 
in a Week, and all the other Duties of a Pastoral Watchfulness, a very 
large Flock has all this while demanded of me; wherein, if I had been 
furnished with as many Heads as a Typheus, as many Eyes as an Argos, 
and as many Hands as a Briareus, I might have had Work enough to 
have employ’d them all; nor hath my Staton left me free from Obliga- 
tions to spend very much time in the Evangelical Service of others also. 
It would have been a great Sim in me, to have Omitted, or Abated, 
my Just Cares, to fulfil my Ministry in these things, and in a manner 
Give my self wholly to them. All the time I have had for my Church- 
History, hath been perhaps only, or chiefly, that, which I might have 
taken else for less profitable Recreations; and it hath all been done 
by Snatches. My Reader will not find me the Person intended in his 
Littany, when he says, Libera me ab homine unius Negotis:*° Nor have 
I spent Thirty Years in shaping this my History, as Diodorus Siculus did 
for his, (and yet both Bodinus and Sigonius complain of the S¢adyara*? 
attending it.) But I wish I could have enjoy’d entirely for this Work, 
one quarter of the little more than Two Years which have roll’d away 
since I began it; whereas I have been forced sometimes wholly to 
throw by the Work whole Months together, and then resume it, but 
by a stolen hour or two in a day, not without some hazard of incurring 
the Title which Coryat put upon his History of his Travels, Crudtties 
hastily gobbled up in five Months. Protogenes being seven Years in drawing 
a Picture, Apelles upon the sight of it, said, The Grace of the Work was 
much allay'd by the length of the Time. Whatever else there may have 
been to take off the Grace of the Work, now in the Readers hands, 
(whereof the Pictures of Great and Good Men make a considerable 
part) I am sure there hath not been the length of the Time to do it. 
Our English Martyrologer, counted it a sufficient. Apology, for what 
Meanness might be found in the first Edition of his Acts and Monu- 
ments, that it was hastily rashed up in about fourteen Months: And I may 
Apologize for this Collection of our Acts and Monuments, that I should 
have been glad, in the little more than Two Years which have ran out, 
since I enter’d upon it, if I could have had one half of About fourteen 
Months to have entirely devoted thereunto. But besides the Time, which 
the Daily Services of my own first, and then many other Churches, have 
necessarily call’d for, I have lost abundance of precious Time, thro’ 
the feeble and broken State of my Health, which hath unfitted me for 
Hard Study; 1 can do nothing to purpose at Lucubrations. And yet, in 
this Time also of the two or three Years last past, I have not been 
excused from the further Diversion of Publishing (tho’ not so many as 


History 175 


they say Mercurius Trismegistus did, yet) more than a Score of other 
Books, upon a copious Variety of other Subjects, besides the composing 
of several more, that are not yet published. . .. My Reader sees, why 
I commit the Fault of a repavria,*® which appears in the mention 
of these Minute-passages; ’tis to excuse whatever other Fault of In- 
accuracy, or Inadvertency, may be discovered in an History, which 
hath been a sort of Rapsody made up (like the Paper whereon ’tis 
written!) with many little Rags, torn from an Employment, multi- 
farious enough to overwhelm one of my small Capacities. .. . 

§. 6. I hope ’tis a right Work that I have done; but we are not yet 
arrived unto the Day, wherein God will bring every Work into Judgment 
(the Day of the Kingdom that was promised unto David) and a Son of 
David hath as Truly as Wisely told us, that until the arrival of that 
Happy Day, this is one of the Vanities attending Humane Affairs; For 
a right VVork a Man shall be envied of his Neighbour. It will not be so 
much a Surprise unto me, if I should live to see our Church-History 
vexed with Anie-mad-versions of Calumnious Writers, as it would have 
been unto Virgil, to read his Bucolicks reproached by the Antzbucolica 
of a Nameless Scribbler, and his Aineids travestied by the Aneidomastix 
of Carbilius: Or Herennius taking pains to make a Collection of the 
Faults, and Faustinus of the Thefts, in his incomparable Composures: 
Yea, Pliny, and Seneca themselves, and our Jerom, reproaching him, 
as a Man of no Judgment, nor Skill in Sciences; while Pedianus 
affirms of him, that he was himself, Usque adeo invidie Expers, ut si quid 
erudite dictum inspiceret alterius, non minus gauderet ac si suum-esset.? How 
should a Book, no better laboured than this of ours, escape oilian 
Outrages, when in all Ages, the most exquisite Works have been as 
much vilified, as Plato’s by Scaliger, and Aristotle’s by Lactantius? In the 
time of our K. Edward V1. there was an Order to bring in all the Teeth 
of St. Apollonia, which the People of his one Kingdom carried about 
them for the Cure of the Tooth ach; and they were so many, that they 
almost fil’d a Tun. Truly Envy hath as many Teeth as Madam Apol- 
Jonia would have had, if all those pretended Reliques had been really 
hers. And must all these Teeth be fastned on thee, O my Book? It may 
be so! And yet the Book, when ground between these Teeth, will prove 
like Ignatius in the Teeth of the furious Tygers, The whiter Manchet for 
the Churches of God. ‘The greatest and fiercest Rage of Envy, is that which 
I expect from those IpumMa@ans,°° whose Religion is all Ceremony, and 
whose Charity is more for them who deny the most Essential things 
in the Articles and Homilies of the Church of England, than for the 
most Conscientious Men in the World, who manifest their being so, 


176 The Puritans 


by their Dissent in some little Ceremony: Or those Persons whose 
Hearts are notably expressed in those words used by one of them 
(tis Howel in his Familiar Letters, Vol. 1. Sect. 6. Lett. 32.) I rather 
pitty, than hate, Turk or Infidel, for they are of the same Metal, and bear the 
same Stamp, as I do, tho’ the Inscriptions differ; If I hate any, ’tis those Schisma- 
ticks that puzzle the sweet Peace of our Church; so that I could be content to 
see an Anabaptist go to Hell on a Brownists Back. The Writer whom I last 
quoted, hath given us a Story of a young Man in High-Holbourn, who 
being after his death Dissected, there was a Serpent with divers tails, 
found in the left Ventricle of his Heart. I make no question, that our 3 
Church-History will find some Reader disposed like that Writer, with 
an Heart as full of Serpent and Venom as ever it can hold: Nor in- 
deed will they be able to hold, but the Tongues and Pens:of those 
angry Folks, will scourge me as with Scorpions, and cause me to feel 
(if I will feel) as many Lashes as Cornelius Agrippa > expected from 
their Brethren, for the Book in which he exposed their Vanities... . 

Reader, I also expect nothing but Scourges from that Generation, 
to whom the Mass-book is dearer than the Bible. But I have now like- 
wise confessed another Expectation, that shall be my Consolation 
under all. They tell us, That on the highest of the Capszan Mountains 
in Spain, there is a Lake, whereinto if you throw a Stone, there pres- 
ently ascends a Smoke, which forms a dense Cloud, from whence 
issues a Tempest of Rain, Hail, and horrid Thunder-claps, for a good 
quarter of an hour. Our Church-History will be like a Stone cast 
into that Lake, for the furious ‘Tempest which it will raise among some, 
whose Ecclesiastical Dignities have set them, as on the top of Spanish 
Mountains. The Catholick Spirit of Communion wherewith ’tis written, 
and the Liberty which I have taken, to tax the Schismatical Im- 
positions and Persecutions of a Party, who have always been as real 
Enemies to the English Nation, as to the Christian and Protestant 
Interest, will certainly bring upon the whole Composure, the quick 
Censures of that Party, at the first cast of their look upon it. In the 
Duke of Alva’s Council of twelve Judges, there was one Hessels a 
Flemming, who slept always at the Trial of Criminals, and when they 
wak’d him to deliver his Opinion, he rub’d his Eyes, and cry’d, be- 
tween sleeping and waking, Ad patibulum! ad Patibulum! To the Gallows 
with ’em! (And, by the way, this Blade was himself, at the last, con- 
demned unto the Gallows, without an Hearing!) As quick Censures 
must this our Labour expect from those who will not bestow waking 
thoughts upon the Representations of Christianity here made unto 
the World; but have a Sentence of Death always to pass, or at least, 


History 17 


Wish, upon those Generous Principles, without which, ’tis impossible 
to maintain the Reformation: And I confess, I am very well content, 
that this our Labour takes the Fate of those Principles: Nor do I 
dissent from the words of the Excellent VVhitaker upon Luther, Felix 
tlle, quem Dominus eo Honore dignatus est, ut Homines nequissimos suos 
haberet inimicos.* But if the old Epigrammatist, when he saw Guilty 
Folks raving Mad at his Lines, could say— 


Hoc volo; nunc nobis carmina nostra placent: 3 


Certainly an Historian should not be displeased at it, if the Enemies 
of Truth discover their Madness at the true and free Communications 
of his History; and therefore the more Stones they throw at this Book, 
there will not only be the more Proofs, that it is a Tree which hath 
good Fruits growing upon it, but I will build my self a Monument 
with them, whereon shall be inscribed, that Clause in the Epitaph of 
the Martyr Stephen: 


Excepit Lapides, cui petra Christus erat: >* 


Albeit perhaps the Epitaph, which the old Monks bestow’d upon 
Wickliff, will be rather endeavour’d for me, (Jf I am thought worth one!) 
by the Men, who will, with all possible Monkery, strive to stave off the 
approaching Reformation.» 

But since an Undertaking of this Nature, must thus encounter so 
much Envy, from those who are under the Power of the Spirit that 
works in the Children of Unperswadeableness, methinks I might perswade 
my self, that it will find another sort of Entertainment from those 
Good Men who have a better Spirit in them: For, as the Apostle 
James hath noted, (so with Monsieur Claude I read it) The Spirit 
that 1s in us, lusteth against Envy; and yet even in us also, there will be 
the Flesh, among whose Works, one is Envy, which will be Lusting 
against the Spzrit. All Good Men will not be satisfied with every 
thing that is here set, before them. In my own Country, besides a 
considerable number of loose and vain Inhabitants risen up, to 
whom the Congregational Church-Discipline, which cannot Live well, 
where the Power of Godliness dyes, is become distastful for the Purity 
of it; there is also a number of eminently Godly Persons, who are 
for a Larger way,°° and unto these my Church-History will give dis- 
tast, by the things which it may happen to utter, in favour of that 
Church-Discipline on some few occasions; and the Discoveries which 
I may happen to make of my Apprehensions, that Scripture, and Reason, 
and Antiquity is for it; and that it is not far from a glorious Resurrec- 


178 The Puritans 


tion. But that, as the Famous Mr. Baxter, after Thirty or Forty Years 
hard Study, about the true Instituted Church-Discipline, at last, not 
only own’d, but also invincibly prov’d, That it is The Congregational; 
so, The further that the Unprejudiced Studies of Learned Men proceed 
in this Matter, the more generally the Congregational Church-Discipline 
will be pronounced for. On the other side, There are some among us, 
who very strictly profess the Congregational Church-Discipline, but at the 
same time they have an unhappy Narrowness of Soul, by which they 
confine their value and Kindness too much unto their own Party; 
and unto those my Church History will be offensive, because my Regard — 
unto our own declared Principles, does not hinder me from giving 
the Right hand of Fellowship unto the valuable Servants of the Lord 
Jesus Christ, who find not our Church-Discipline as yet agreeable unto - 
their present Understandings and Illuminations. If it be thus in my 
own Country, it cannot be otherwise in That whereto I send this 
account of my own. Briefly, as it hath been said, That if all Episcopal 
Men were like Archbishop Usher,°’ and all Presbyterians like Stephen 
Marshal,°® and all Independents like Jeremiah Burroughs,°° the Wounds 
of the Church would soon be healed; my Essay to carry that Spirit 
through this whole Church-History, will bespeak Wounds for it, from 
those that are of another Spirit. And there will also be in every Country 
those Good Men, who yet have not had the Grace of Christ so far 
prevailing in them, as utterly to divest them of that piece of Ill Nature 
which the Comedian resents, In homine Imperito, quo nil quicquam In- 
justius, quia nist quod ipse facit, nal recte factum putat.°° 

However, All these things, and an hundred more such things which 
I think of, are very small Discouragements for such a Service as I 
have here endeavoured. I foresee a Recompence, which will abun- 
dantly swallow up all Discouragements! It may be Strato the Phi- 
losopher counted himself well recompensed for his Labours, when 
Ptolomy bestow’d fourscore ‘Talents on him. It may be Archimelus the 
Poet counted himself well recompensed, when Hiero sent him a thou- 
sand Bushels of Wheat for one little Epigram: And Salezus the Poet 
might count himself well recompensed, when Vespasian sent him twelve 
thousand and five hundred Philippicks; and Oppian the Poet might 
count himself well recompensed, when Caracalla sent him a piece of 
Gold for every Line that he had inscribed unto him. As I live in a 
Country where such Recompences never were in fashion; it hath no 
Preferments for me, and I shall count that I am well Rewarded in 
it, if I can escape without being heavily Reproached, Censured and 
Condemned, for what I have done: So I thank the Lord, I should 


History | 179 


exceedingly Scorn all such mean Considerations, I seek not out for 
Benefactors, to whom these Labours may be Dedicated: There is ONE 
to whom all is due! From Him I shall have a Recompence: And 
what Recompence? The Recompence, whereof I do, with inexpressible 
Joy, assure my self, is this, That these my poor Labours will certainly serve 
the Churches and Interests of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I think I may say, 
That I ask to live no longer, than I count a Service unto the Lord 
Jesus Christ, and his Churches, to be it self a glorious Recompence 
for the doing of it. When David was contriving to build the House 
of God, there was that order given from Heaven concerning him, Go 
tell David, my Servant. ‘The adding of that more than Royal Title unto 
the Name of David, was a sufficient Recompence for all his Contrivance 
about the House of God. In our whole Church-History, we have been 
at work for the House of the Lord Jesus Christ, (Even that Man who 
is the Lord God, and whose Form seems on that occasion represented 
unto His David.) And herein ’tis Recompence enough, that I have 
been a Servant unto that heavenly Lord. ‘The greatest Honour, and the 
sweetest Pleasure, out of Heaven, is to Serve our Illustrious Lord JEsus 
Curist, who hath loved us, and given himself for us; and unto whom it 
is infinitely reasonable that we should give our selves, and all that we 
have and Are: And it may be the Angels in Heaven too, aspire not after 
an higher Felicity. 

Unto thee, therefore, O thou Son of God, and King of Heaven, and Lord 
of all things, whom all the Glorious Angels of Light, unspeakably love to Glorifie; 
I humbly offer up a poor History of Churches, which own thee alone for their 
Head, and Prince, and Law-giver; Churches which thou hast purchas’d with 
thy own Blood, and with wonderful Dispensations of thy Providence hitherto 
protected and preserved; and of a People which thou didst Form for thy self, 
to shew forth thy Praises. I bless thy great Name, for thy inclining of me to, 
and carrying of me through, the Work of this History: I pray thee to sprinkle 
the Book of this History with thy Blood, and make it acceptable and profitable 
unto thy Churches, and serve thy Truths and Ways among thy People, by that 
which thou hast here prepared; for ’tis ‘THOU that hast prepar’d wt for them. 
Amen. 


Quid sum? Nil. Quis sum? Nullus. Sed Gratia CuRIsTI, 
Quod sum, quod Vivo, quodque Laboro, facit.° 


180 The Puritans 


THE 


SIMPLE COBLER 
O 


AGGAVVAM IN AMERICA. | 
WILLING 


To help ’mend his Native Country, la- 
mentably tattered,both in the upper-Leather 
and fole,with all the honeft ftitches he can take. 


\And as willing never to bee paid for his work, 
by Old Englifh wonted pay. 


It ts bis Trade to patch all the year long, gratis. 
Therefore I pray Gentlemen keep your purfes. | 


By Theodore dela Guard. 


- Invebos ardvis ac tems pe, fertifima qnaque confilia tusifima funt.Cic. 
: In Englifh ; 
When bootes and {hoes are torne up to the lefts, 
Coblers muft thrak cheir awles up to the hefts, | 
This isno time tofeare Apelles gramm : | 
Ne Sivor quidem ultra crepidane, 


LONDGNRN, 
Printed by 7. D. & R. J. for Stephen Boweel, at the fiche of the 
Bible in Popes Head-Alley, 1647, 
at Sk the Biren ee Le 
Title Page of Nathaniel Ward’s The Simple Cobler. 


«eg Chapter II 


THE THEORY OF THE STATE AND OF 
SOCIETY 


T HAS often been said that the end of the seventeenth and the be- 
I ginning of the eighteenth century mark the first real break with 
the Middle Ages in the history of European thought. Even though 
the Renaissance and Reformation transformed many aspects of the 
Western intellect, still it was not until the time of Newton that the 
modern scientific era began; only then could men commence to re- 
gard life in this world as something more than preparation for life 
beyond the grave. Certainly if the eighteenth century inaugurated the 
modern epoch in natural sciences, so also did it in the political and 
social sciences. For the first time since the fall of the Roman Empire 
religion could be separated from politics, doctrinal orthodoxy divorced 
from loyalty to the state, and the citizens of a nation permitted to 
worship in diverse churches and to believe different creeds without 
endangering the public peace. Various factors contributed to effecting 
this revolution; the triumph of scientific method and of rationalism 
made impossible the older belief that government was of divine origin; 
the rise of capitalism, of the middle class, and eventually of democ- 
racy, necessitated new conceptions of the rdle of the state. Social 
leadership in England and America was assumed by a group of gentle- 
men who were, by and large, deists or skeptics, and to them all re- 
ligious issues had become supremely boring. At the same time the 
churches themselves, particularly the newer evangelical denominations, 
were swinging round to a theology that made religious belief the sub- 
jective experience of individual men, entirely unrelated to any par- 
ticular political philosophy or social theory. 

In order to understand Puritanism we must go behind these eight- 
eenth-century developments to an age when the unity of religion and 
politics was so axiomatic that very few men would even have grasped 
the idea that church and state could be distinct. For the Puritan 
mind it was not possible to segregate a man’s spiritual life from his 
communal life. Massachusetts was settled for religious reasons, but as 
John Winthrop announced, religious reasons included ‘‘a due forme 
of Government both ciuill and ecclesiasticall,’’ and the civil was quite 
as important in his eyes as the ecclesiastical. Only in recent years has 
it become possible for us to view the political aspects of Puritanism 


with something like comprehension and justice. For two centuries our 
181 


182 | The Puritans 


social thinking has been dominated by ideas which were generated in 
the course of a sweeping revolt against everything for which the Puri- 
tans stood; the political beliefs of the Puritans were forgotten, or, if 
remembered at all, either deplored or condemned as unfortunate rem- 
nants of medievalism. Puritanism has been viewed mainly as a religious 
and ethical movement. But of late years the standards of the eighteenth 
century have for the first time come under serious criticism and in 
many quarters are showing the strain. In these circumstances the social. 
philosophy of Puritanism takes on a new interest, and quite possibly 
becomes for us the most instructive and valuable portion of the Puritan 
heritage. 

The Puritan theory of the state began with the hypothesis of original 
sin. Had Adam transmitted undiminished to his descendants the image 
of God in which he had been created, no government would ever have 
been necessary among men; they would all then have done justice to 
each other without the supervision of a judge, they would have respected 
each other’s rights without the intervention of a policeman. But the 
Bible said—and experience proved—that since the fall, without the 
policeman, the judge, the jail, the law, and the magistrate, men will 
rob, murder, and fight among themselves; without a coercive state to 
restrain evil impulses and administer punishments, no life will be 
safe, no property secure, no honor observed. Therefore, upon Adam’s 
apostasy, God Himself instituted governments among men. He left 
the particular form to be determined by circumstance—this was one 
important human art on which the Puritans said the Bible was not 
an absolute and imperious lawgiver—but He enacted that all men 
should be under some sort of corporate rule, that they should all 
submit to the sway of their superiors, that no man should live apart 
from his fellows, that the government should have full power to en- 
force obedience and to inflict every punishment that the crimes of men 
deserved. | 

There was a strong element of individualism in the Puritan creed; 
every man had to work out his own salvation, each soul had to face 
his maker alone. But at the same time, the Puritan philosophy de- 
manded that in society all men, at least all regenerate men, be mar- 
shaled into one united array. The lone horseman, the single trapper, 
the solitary hunter was not a figure of the Puritan frontier; Puritans 
moved in groups and towns, settled in whole communities, and main- 
tained firm government over all units. Neither was the individualistic 
business man, the shopkeeper who seized every opportunity to enlarge 
his profits, the speculator who contrived to gain wealth at the expense 


Theory of State and Society | 183 


of his fellows, neither were these typical figures of the original Puritan 
society. The most obvious lesson of the selections printed herein is 
that Puritan opinion was at the opposite pole from Jefferson’s feeling 
that the best government governs as little as possible. The theorists 
of New England thought of society as a unit, bound together by in- 
violable ties; they thought of it not as an aggregation of individuals 
but as an organism, functioning for a definite purpose, with all parts 
subordinate to the whole, all members contributing a definite share, 
every person occupying a particular status. “Society in all sorts of 
humane affaires is better then Solitariness,” said John Cotton.! The 
society of early New England was decidedly “‘regimented.”’ Puritans 
did not think the state was merely an umpire, standing on the side 
lines of a contest, limited to checking egregious fouls, but otherwise 
allowing men free play according to their abilities and the breaks of 
the game. They would have expected the rule of “‘laissez-faire’’ to 
result in a reign of rapine and horror. ‘The state to them was an active 
instrument of leadership, discipline, and, wherever necessary, of coer- 
cion; it legislated over any or all aspects of human behavior, it not 
merely regulated misconduct but undertook to inspire and direct all 
conduct. ‘The commanders were not to trim their policies by the de- 
sires of the people, but to drive ahead upon the predetermined course; 
the people were all to turn out as they were ordered, and together 
they were to crowd sail to the full capacity of the vessel. The officers 
were above the common men, as the quarter-deck is above the fore- 
castle. There was no idea of the equality of all men. There was no 
questioning that men who would not serve the purposes of the society 
should be whipped into line. The objectives were clear and unmis- 
takable; any one’s disinclination to dedicate himself to them was ob- 
viously so much recalcitrancy and depravity. The government of 
Massachusetts, and of Connecticut as well, was a dictatorship, and 
never pretended to be anything else; it was a dictatorship, not of a 
single tyrant, or of an economic class, or of a political faction, but of the 
holy and regenerate. Those who did not hold with the ideals enter- 
tained by the righteous, or who believed God had preached other 
principles, or who desired that in religious belief, morality, and ecclesi- 
astical preferences all men should be left at liberty to do as they wished— 
such persons had every liberty, as Nathaniel Ward said, to stay away 
from New England. If they did come, they were expected to keep 
their opinions to themselves; if they discussed them in public or at- 
tempted to act upon them, they were exiled; if they persisted in re- 
1A Briefe Exposition... upon... Ecclesiastes (London, 1654), p. 85. 


184 The Puritans 


turning, they were cast out again; if they still came back, as did four 
Quakers, they were hanged on Boston Common. And from the Puritan 
point of view, it was good riddance. 

These views of the nature and function of the state were not pe- 
culiar to the Puritans of New England; they were the heritage of the 
past, the ideals, if not always the actuality, of the previous centuries. 
That government was established by God in order to save depraved 
men from their own depravity had been orthodox Christian teaching 
for centuries; that men should be arranged in serried ranks, inferiors 
obeying superiors, was the essence of feudalism; that men should live — 
a social life, that profit-making should be restrained within the limits 
of the “just price,’ that the welfare of the whole took precedence 
over any individual advantage, was the doctrine of the medieval , 
church, and of the Church of England in the early seventeenth cen- 
tury. Furthermore, in addition to these general principles, there were 
two or three more doctrines in the New England philosophy which 
also were common to the age and the background. All the world at 
that moment believed with them that the church was to be main- 
tained and protected by the civil authority, and a certain part of the 
world was contending that government was limited by fundamental 
law and that it took its origin from the consent of the people. 

Every respectable state in the Western world assumed that it could 
allow only one church to exist within its borders, that every citizen 
should be compelled to attend it and conform to its requirements, 
and that all inhabitants should pay taxes for its support. When the 
Puritans came to New England the idea had not yet dawned that a 
government could safely permit several creeds to exist side by side 
within the confines of a single nation. They had not been fighting in 
England for any milk-and-water toleration, and had they been offered 
such religious freedom as dissenters now enjoy in Great Britain they 
would have scorned to accept such terms. Only a hypocrite, a person 
who did not really believe what he professed, would be content to 
practice his religion under such conditions. The Puritans were as- 
sured that they alone knew the exact truth, as it was contained in 
the written word of God, and they were fighting to enthrone it in 
England and to extirpate utterly and mercilessly all other pretended 
versions of Christianity. When they could not succeed at home, they 
came to America, where they could establish a society in which the 
one and only truth should reign forever. There is nothing so idle as 
to praise the Puritans for being in any sense conscious or deliberate 
pioneers of religious liberty—unless, indeed, it is still more idle to 


Theory of State and Society 185 


berate them because in America they persecuted dissenters from their 
beliefs after they themselves had undergone persecution for differing 
“with the bishops. To allow no dissent from the truth was exactly the 
reason they had come to America. They maintained here precisely 
what they had maintained in England, and if they exiled, fined, jailed, 
whipped, or hanged those who disagreed with them in New England, 
they would have done the same thing in England could they have 
secured the power. It is almost pathetic to trace the puzzlement of 
New England leaders at the end of the seventeenth century, when 
the idea of toleration was becoming more and more respectable in 
European thought. They could hardly understand what was happen- 
ing in the world, and they could not for a long time be persuaded 
that they had any reason to be ashamed of their record of so many 
Quakers whipped, blasphemers punished by the amputation of ears, 
Antinomians exiled, Anabaptists fined, or witches executed. By all 
the lights which had prevailed in Europe at the time the Puritans 
had left, these were achievements to which any government could 
point with pride. In 1681 a congregation of Anabaptists, who led a 
stormy and precarious existence for several years in Charlestown, pub- 
lished an attack upon the government of Massachusetts Bay; they 
justified themselves by appealing to the example of the first settlers, 
claiming that like themselves the founders had been nonconformists 
and had fled to New England to establish a refuge for persecuted 
consciences. When Samuel Willard, minister of the Third Church in 
Boston, read this, he could hardly believe his eyes; he hastened to 
assure the authors that they did not know what they were talking 
about: 


I perceive they are mistaken in the design of our first Planters, 
whose business was not Toleration; but were professed Enemies of 
it, and could leave the World professing they died no Libertines. Their 
business was to settle, and (as much as in them lay) secure Religion 
to Posterity, according to that way which they believed was of God.! 


For the pamphlet in which Willard penned these lines Increase Mather 
wrote an approving preface. Forty years later, he and his son Cotton 
participated in the ordination of a Baptist minister in Boston, and he 
then preached on the need for harmony between differing sects. But 
by that time much water had gone under the bridge, the old charter 
had been revoked, there was danger that the Church of England 
might be made the established church of the colonies, theology had 


1 Ne Sutor ultra Crepidam (Boston, 1681), p. 4. 


186 3 The Puritans 


come to be of less importance in men’s minds than morality, the tone 
of the eighteenth century was beginning to influence opinion—even 
in Boston. Increase was old and weary. Puritanism, in the true sense 
of the word, was dead. 

Of course, the whole Puritan philosophy of church and state rested 
upon the assumption that the word of God was clear and explicit, 
that the divines had interpreted it correctly, and that no one who was 
not either a knave or a fool could deny their demonstrations. Ergo, 
it seemed plain, those who did deny them should be punished for 
being obstinate. John Cotton said that offenders should not be dis- 
ciplined for their wrong opinions, but for persisting in them; he said 
that Roger Williams was not turned out of Massachusetts for his con- 
science, but for sinning against his own conscience. Roger Williams 
and John Cotton debated the question of “persecution” through several 
hundred pages; after they had finished, I think it is very doubtful 
whether Cotton had even begun to see his adversary’s point. And 
still today it is hard to make clear the exact grounds upon which Roger 
Williams became the great apostle of religious liberty. Williams was 
not, like Thomas Jefferson, a man to whom theology and divine grace 
had become stuff and nonsense; on the contrary he was pious with a 
fervor and passion that went beyond most of his contemporaries. So 
exalted was his conception of the spiritual life that he could not bear 
to have it polluted with earthly considerations. He did not believe 
that any man could determine the precise intention of scripture with 
such dreadful certainty as the New England clergy claimed to pos- 
sess. Furthermore, it seemed to him that even if their version were 
true, submission to truth itself was worth nothing at all when forced 
“upon men by the sword. Williams evolved from an orthodox Puritan 
into the champion of religious liberty because he came to see spiritual 
truth as so rare, so elevated, so supernal a loveliness that it could not 
be chained to a wordly establishment and a vested interest. He was © 
a libertarian because he contemned the world, and he wanted to sepa- 
rate church and state so that the church would not be contaminated 
by the state; Thomas Jefferson loved the world and was dubious about 
the spirit, and he sought to separate church and state so that the state 
would not be contaminated by the church. But John Cotton believed 
the state and church were partners in furthering the cause of truth; 
he knew that the truth was clear, definite, reasonable, and undeniable; 
he expected all good men to live by it voluntarily, and he was sure 
that all men who did not do so were obviously bad men. Bad men 
were criminals, whether their offense was theft or a belief in the 


Theory of State and Society 187 


‘inner light,” and they should be punished. Moses and Aaron, the 
priest and the statesman, were equally the viceregents of God, and 
the notion that one could contaminate the other was utter insanity. 

The two other ideas which we have noted as being derived from 
the background of the age, rule by fundamental law and social com- 
pact, were the special tenets of English Puritanism. For three decades 
before the settlement of Massachusetts the Puritan party in England 
had been working hand in glove with the Parliament against the 
King. The absolutist Stuarts were allied with the bishops, and the 
Puritan agitator and the Parliamentary leader made common cause 
against them both. As a result of this combination, the Puritan theorists 
had taken over the essentials of the Parliamentary conception of society, 
the contention that the power of the ruler should be exercised in ac- 
cordance with established fundamental law, and that the government 
should owe its existence to a compact of the governed. Because these 
ideas were strategically invaluable in England, they became ingrained 
in the Puritan consciousness; they were carried to New England and 
were preached from every pulpit in the land. 

The Puritans did not see any conflict between them and their re- 
ligious intentions. In New England the fundamental law was the Bible. 
The magistrates were to have full power to rule men for the specific 
purposes to which the society was dedicated; but they as well as their 
subordinates were tied to the specific purposes, and could not go be- 
yond the prescribed limits. The Bible was clear and definite on the 
form of the church, on the code of punishments for crimes, on the 
general purposes of social existence; its specifications were binding on 
all, magistrates, ministers, and citizens. Consequently, the Puritans 
did not find it difficult to conclude that in those matters upon which 
the Bible left men free to follow their own discretion, the society itself 
should establish basic rules. The New England leaders and the people 
frequently disagreed as to what these rules were, or as to how detailed 
they should be made, but neither side ever doubted that the com- 
munity must abide by whatever laws had been enacted, either by 
God or by the state. The government of New England was, as we have 
said, a dictatorship, but the dictators were not absolute and irre- 
sponsible. John Cotton was the clerical spokesman for the Massachu- 
setts rulers, but he stoutly demanded “‘that all power that is on earth 
be limited.” 

The belief that government originated in the consent of the governed 
was equally congenial to the Puritan creed. The theology is often 
enough described as deterministic, because it held that men were pre- 


188 The Puritans 


destined to heaven or hell; but we are always in danger of forgetting 
that the life of the Puritan was completely voluntaristic. The natural 
man was indeed bound in slavery to sin and unable to make exertions 
toward his own salvation; but the man into whose soul grace had been 
infused was liberated from that bondage and made free to undertake the 
responsibilities and obligations of virtue and decency. The holy society 
was erected upon the belief that the right sort of men could of their 
own free will and choice carry through the creation and administra- 
tion of the right sort of community. The churches of New England | 
were made up of “‘saints,”” who came into the church because they 
wanted membership, not because they were born in it, or were forced 
into it, or joined because of policy and convention. Though every 
resident was obliged to attend and to pay taxes for the support of 
the churches, no one became an actual member who did not signify 
his strong desire to be one. The saints were expected to act positively 
because they had in them a spirit of God that made them capable 
of every exertion. No doubt the Puritans maintained that government 
originated in the consent of the people because that theory was an imple- 
ment for chastening the absolutism of the Stuarts; but they maintained 
it also because they did not believe that any society, civil or ecclesiastical, 
into which men did not enter of themselves was worthy of the name. 

Consequently, the social theory of Puritanism, based upon the law 
of God, was posited also upon the voluntary submission of the citizens. 
As men exist in nature, said Thomas Hooker, no one person has any 
power over another; “‘there must of necessity be a mutuall ingage- 
ment, each of the other, by their free consent, before by any rule 
of God they have any right or power, or can exercise either, each 
towards the other.’ This truth appears, he argues, from all relations 
among men, that of husband and wife, master and servant; there 
must be a compact drawn up and sealed between them. 


From mutuall acts of consenting and ingaging each of other, there 
is an impression of ingagement results, as a relative bond, betwixt the 
contractours and confederatours, wherein the formalis ratio, or specificall 
nature of the covenant lieth, in all the former instances especially 
that of corporations. So that however it is true, the rule bindes such to 
the duties of their places and relations, yet it is certain, it requires 
that they should first freely ingage themselves in such covenants, and 
then be carefull to fullfill such duties. A man is allowed freely to 
make choice of his wife, and she of her husband, before they need or 
should perform the duties of husband and wife one towards another. 


1 A Survey of the Summe of Church-Discipline (London, 1648), Part I, p. 69. 


Theory of State and Society 189 


The rules and regulations of society, the objectives and the duties, 
are erected by God; but in a healthy state the citizens must first agree 
to abide by those regulations, must first create the society by willing 
consent and active participation. 

These ideas, of a uniform church supported by the civil authority, 
of rule by explicit law, of the derivation of the state from the consent 
of the people, were transported to New England because they were 
the stock ideas of the time and place. What the New England Puritans 
added of their own was the unique fashion in which they combined 
them into one coherent and rounded theory. The classic expression 
of this theory is the speech on liberty delivered by John Winthrop 
to the General Court in 1645. In that year Winthrop was serving as 
lieutenant governor, and as such was a justice of the peace; a squabble 
broke out in the town of Hingham over the election of a militia officer; 
Winthrop intervened, committing one faction for contempt of court 
when they would not give bond to appear peaceably before the legis- 
lature and let the affair be adjudicated. Some of the citizens were 
enraged, and the lower house of the General Court impeached Win- 
throp for exceeding his commission and going beyond the basic law 
of the land. He was tried and acquitted; thereupon he pronounced 
this magnificent oration, setting before the people the unified theory 
of the Puritan commonwealth. 

As he expounds it, the political doctrine becomes part and parcel 
of the theological, and the cord that binds all ideas together is the 
covenant. The New England divines had already refashioned the 
original theology of Calvinism to bring it more into accord with the 
disposition of Englishmen, their most important addition being their 
statement of the relationship between the elect and God in the form 
of a covenant. As they saw it, when a man received the spirit of God, 
he availed himself of his liberty to enter a compact with the Deity, 
promising to abide by God’s laws and to fulfill God’s will to the best 
of his ability. In turn God guaranteed him redemption. A regenerate 
man was thus by definition committed by his own plighted word to 
God’s cause, not only in his personal life and behaviour, but in church 
affairs and in society. Winthrop argues that individuals, in a natural 
state, before grace has been given them, are at absolute liberty to do 
anything they can, to lie, steal, murder; obviously he is certain that 
natural men, being what they are, will do exactly these things unless 
prevented. But when men become regenerate they are then at “‘liberty”’ 
to do only what God commands. And God commands certain things 
for the group as a whole as well as for each individual. Regenerate 


fi 


190 The Puritans 


men, therefore, by the very fact of being regenerate, come together, 
form churches and a state upon explicit agreements, in which they 
all promise to live with one another according to the laws and for 
the purposes of God. Thus the government is brought into being 
by the act of the people; but the people do not create just any sort 
of government, but the one kind of government which God has out- 
lined. The governors are elected by the people, but elected into an 
office which has been established by God. God engenders the society 
by acting through the people, as in nature He secures His effects by 
guiding secondary causes; the collective will of regenerate men, bound 
together by the social compact, projects and continues the will of God 
into the state. As John Davenport expressed it, “In regular actings 
of the creature, God is the first Agent; there are not two several and 
distinct actings, one of God, another of the People: but in one and 
the same action, God, by the Peoples suffrages, makes such an one 
Governour, or Magistrate, and not another.’ ! So, when men have 
made a covenant with God they have thereby promised Him, in the 
very terms of that agreement, to compact among themselves in order 
to form a holy state in which His discipline will be practiced. As one 
of the ministers phrased it: 


Where the Lord sets himselfe over a people, he frames them unto a 
willing and voluntary subjection unto him, that they desire nothing 
more then to be under his government... When the Lord is in 
Covenant with a people, they follow him not forcedly, but as farre 
as they are sanctified by grace, they submit willingly to his regiment.? 


When men have entered these covenants, first with God, then with 
each other in the church and again in the state, they have thrice 
committed themselves to the rule of law and the control of‘authority. 
Winthrop can thus insist that though the government of Massachusetts 
is bound by fundamental law, and though it takes its rise from the 
people, and though the people elect the officials, still the people’s 
liberty in Massachusetts consists in a “liberty to that only which is 
good, just and honest.”’ By entering the covenant with God, and the 
covenant with each other, the citizens ‘renounce all natural liberty, 
surrender the right to seek for anything that they themselves might 
lust after, and retain only the freedom that “‘is maintained and exer- 
cised in a way of subjection to authority.” 

The theory furnishes an excellent illustration of the intellectual ideal 

1 A Sermon Preach’d at The Election. . . May roth 1669 ([n. p.], 1670), in Publica- 


tions of the Colonial Society of Massachuetts, X, 6. 
2 Peter Bulkeley, The Gospel-Covenant (London, 1651), pp. 219-220. 


Theory of State and Society 191 


toward which all Puritan thought aspired; in the realm of govern- 
ment as of nature, the Puritan thinker strove to harmonize the deter- 
mination of God with the exertion of men, the edicts of revelation 
with the counsels of reason and experience. On one side, this account 
exhibits the creation of society as flowing from the promptings and 
coaction of God; on the other side it attributes the origination to the 
teachings of nature and necessity. The social compact may be en- 
gineered by God, but it is also an eminently reasonable method of 
bringing a state into being. Delimitation of the ruler’s power by basic 
law may be a divine ordinance to restrain the innate sinfulness of 
men, but it is also a very natural device to avoid oppression and 
despotism; the constitution may be promulgated to men from on high, 
but it is in fact very much the sort which, had they been left to their 
own devices, they might have contrived in the interests of efficiency 
and practicality. Men might conceivably have come upon the erec- 
tion of governments through explicit compacts, in which they incor- 
porated certain inviolable regulations and a guarantee of rights, quite 
as much by their own intelligence as by divine instruction. As always 
in Puritan thought, there was no intention to discredit either source, 
but rather to integrate the divine and the natural, revelation and 
- reason, into a single inspiration. ‘‘Power of Civil Rule, by men orderly 
chosen, is Gods Ordinance,”’ said John Davenport, even if ‘It is from 
the Light and Law of Nature,” because “the Law of Nature is God’s 
Law.” ! The Puritan state was thus from one point of view purely 
and simply a “theocracy”; God was the sovereign, His fiats were 
law and His wishes took precedence over all other considerations; the 
magistrates and ministers were His viceroys. But from another point 
of view, the Puritan state was built upon reason and the law of nature; 
it was set up by the covenant of the people, the scope of its power 
was determined by the compact, and the magistrates and ministers 
were the commissioned servants of the people. 

As this theory stands on paper it is, like so many edifices erected 
by the Puritan mind, almost perfect. When it was realized in prac- 
tice, however, there were at least two difficulties that soon became 
apparent. For one, not all the people, even in New England, were 
regenerate; in fact, the provable elect were a minority, probably no 
more than one fifth of the total population. But this did not dismay 
the original theorists, for they had never thought that mere numerical 
majorities proved anything. Consequently, though the social compact 
furnished the theoretical basis of society in New England, neverthe- 

1 A Sermon Preach’d at The Election, p. 4. 


192 The Puritans 


less it was confined to the special few; the election of officers and the 
passing of laws was given to those only who could demonstrate their 
justification and sanctification. The Congregational system, with its 
membership limited to those who had proved before the church that 
they possessed the signs of grace, offered a ready machinery for win- 
nowing the wheat from the chaff. Therefore, under the first charter 
the suffrage in Massachusetts was limited to the church members. In 
Connecticut the franchise was not officially restrained in this fashion, 
but other means served as well to keep the electorate pure and or- 
thodox. The “citizens,” as they were called, elected delegates to the 
General Court, chose judges, and passed laws. The others, the ‘‘in- 
habitants,” had equality before the law, property rights, police pro- 
tection; they were taxed no more than the citizens or submitted to 
no indignities, but they were allowed no voice in the government or 
in the choice of ministers, and only by the mere force of numbers 
gained any influence in town meetings. 

The restriction of the franchise to church membership seemed to 
solve the first difficulty confronted by the Puritan theorists. But in 
time it only brought them face to face with the second and more 
serious problem: the whole structure of theory which Winthrop out- 
lined in his speech, and which the sermons of Mitchell, Stoughton, 
and Hubbard reiterated, fell apart the moment the “citizens” were 
no longer really and ardently holy. Just as soon as the early zeal began 
to die down, and the distinction between the citizens and the in- 
habitants became difficult to discern, then the purely naturalistic, 
rational, practical aspect of the political theory became detached from 
the theological, began to stand alone and by itself. As the religious 
inspiration waned, there remained no reason why all the people should 
not be held partners to the social compact; the idea that God worked 
His ends through the covenant of the people grew vague and obscure, 
while the notion that all the people made the covenant for their own 
reasons and created the state for their own purposes took on more 
and more definite outlines. As toleration was forced upon the colonies 
by royal command, or became more estimable as religious passions 
abated, the necessity for the social bond being considered a commit- 
ment of the nation to the will of God disappeared. Instead, men per- 
ceived the charms and usefulness of claiming that the compact had 
been an agreement of the people, not to God’s terms, but to their 
own terms. The divine ordinance and the spirit of God, which were 
supposed to have presided over the political process, vanished, leaving 
a government founded on the self-evident truths of the law of nature, 


Theory of State and Society 193 


brought into being by social compact, instituted not for the glory of 
God, but to secure men’s “‘inalienable rights” of life, liberty, and the 
pursuit of happiness. Until Jefferson rewrote the phrase, the three 
interests which were to be furthered and guaranteed by the govern- 
ment were more candidly summarized as life, liberty—and property. 

The sermon of Samuel Willard, delivered in the 1690’s, betrays the 
merest beginnings of the change from the theological version of political 
principle to the purely rational and naturalistic variant, but the real 
revolution in the thought was first decisively proclaimed by the Rev- 
erend John Wise. He wrote his pamphlet in defence of church govern- 
ment only; he was aroused by a proposal that had been tentatively 
suggested several years previously among a group of Boston ministers, 
that the local autonomy of individual congregations had perhaps been 
carried too far and that possibly a more centralized administration 
would help check the degeneration of the religious spirit. Wise wrote 
his vindication of the Congregational system in order to demolish this 
ecclesiastical proposal, but in working out the philosophy of church 
government he had to overhaul the fundamentals of all government. 
The revolution he inaugurated in the thinking of New England con- 
sisted in the very organization of his book; where the early defenders 
of the church system discussed the Biblical and rational arguments 
together, or forced them to coalesce into one argument, Wise de- 
liberately separated them into two distinct and independent chapters. 
He compressed into the first section of his book a recital of all the 
passages of scripture that had been held to substantiate the Congre- 
gational system, and then hurried on to the argument from unaided 
natural wisdom. The radicalism of his pamphlet is compressed into 
one sentence, into his suggestion that the scheme of government might 
be said to have originated with nature and reason, and only subse- 
quently to have “obtained the Royal Approbation.’’ Where the early 
writers had maintained that government springs from the action of 
God upon the reason, Wise separates divine commands and the dic- 
tates of reason into independent sources, and establishes a direct line 
of communication with God through the natural reason, without any 
real necessity for consulting scripture. Instead of the unity of early 
Puritan theory, this account is actually out-and-out rationalism, and 
the function of the Bible is reduced to supplying a secondary con- 
firmation of the reasonable. From Wise to the philosophy of the Dec- 
laration of Independence is a clear and inevitable progress. Barnard 
and Mayhew mark further steps in that development, and with May- 
hew the right of revolution, the right to resist the government when 


104 | The Puritans 


it oversteps the limits established by the social compact and the funda- 
mental law, becomes the most important doctrine in the theory. With 
Jonathan Mayhew the separation of God’s will from man’s is com- 
plete; or rather, with him, the divine will has been made over into 
the image of the human. The purposes of society are no longer the 
deity’s, but the subject’s; the advantages to be derived from corporate 
existence are no longer salvation, but the well-being of the citizen. 
The power of the Puritan God, and of the English King, is bound 
by the terms of this compact and by the basic law; we are by now 
certain that God will respect the law we have agreed upon, but as 
for the King—if he impose a tax on tea to which we do not ourselves 
consent, and if we thereupon resist him, “‘even to the dethroning him,” 
we are not criminals, but have only taken “fa reasonable way” of 
vindicating our natural rights. 


{ 


JOHN WINTHROP, 1588-1649 


[For Winthrop’s life see p. 124. ““A Modell of Christian Charity” 
was delivered as a lecture or lay-sermon to the passengers aboard the 
Arbella on the voyage to New England; it follows the standard sermon 
form, asserting a doctrinal truth, supporting it with reasons, applying 
it to the case in hand. The text is from Winthrop Papers, Vol. II (Mas- 
sachusetts Historical Society, Boston, 1931). 

“A Defence of an Order of Court’? was written to silence Henry 
Vane. During the strain of the Antinomian crisis, when the authorities 
had good reason to fear an insurrection of the Hutchinsonians, the 
General Court passed a law that no immigrant should be allowed to 
remain in Massachusetts Bay unless one of the magistrates gave him 
a permit. The immediate purpose of the law was obviously to prevent 
the Hutchinsonians from receiving further reinforcements. Vane, who 
had just been turned out of the governorship (p. 133), called this act 
“tyranny.” Winthrop defended it with the following tract; Vane re- 
plied with a longer document, and Winthrop answered in a still longer 
argument. The text is from ‘Thomas Hutchinson, A Collection of Papers 
Relating to the History of Massachusetts Bay (Boston, 1769), pp. 63-71. 

The selections from the Journal illustrate the workings of the Puritan 
state. Winthrop’s speech, delivered to the General Court immediately 
after he had been acquitted in a trial for exceeding his magisterial 
authority, is the classic expression of Puritan political theory. The text 
is from the edition of James Savage (Boston, 1825), I, 300-302, 322- 


323, II, 35, 228-230. | 


Theory of State and Society 195 


A MODELL OF CHRISTIAN CHARITY 


Written 
On Boarde the Arrabella, 
On the Attlantick Ocean. 
By the Honorable John Winthrop Esquire. 


In His passage, (with the great Company of Religious people, of 
which Christian Tribes he was the Brave Leader and famous Gov- 
ernor;) from the Island of Great Brittaine, to New-England in the 


North America. 
Anno 1630. 


CHRISTIAN CHARITIE. 
A Modell Hereof. 


OD ALMIGHTIE in his most holy and wise providence hath soe dis- , / 
(G posed of the Condicion of mankinde, as in all times some must 
be rich some poore, some highe and eminent in power and dignitie; 
others meane and in subieccion. 


The Reason Hereof. 


1. Reas: First, to hold conformity with the rest of his workes, being 
delighted to shewe forthe the glory of his wisdome in the variety and 
differance of the Creatures and the glory of his power, in ordering all 
these differences for the preservacion and good of the whole, and the 
glory of his greatnes that as it is the glory of princes to haue many 
officers, soe this great King will haue many Stewards counting him- 
selfe more honoured in dispenceing his guifts to man by man, then 
if hee did it by his owne immediate hand. ; 

2. Reas: Secondly, That he might haue the more occasion to mani- 
fest the worke of his Spirit: first, vpon the wicked in moderateing and 
restraineing them: soe that the riche and mighty should not eate vpp 
the poore, nor the poore, and dispised rise vpp against their superiours, 
and shake off theire yoake; 2ly in the regenerate in exerciseing his 
graces in them, as in the greate ones, theire loue mercy, gentlenes, 
temperance etc., in the poore and inferiour sorte, theire faithe patience, 
obedience etc: 

3. Reas: Thirdly, That every man might haue need of other, and 
from hence they might be all knitt more nearly together in the Bond 
of brotherly affeccion: from hence it appeares plainely that noe man 
is made more honourable then another or more wealthy etc., out of 


196 The Puritans 


any perticuler and singuler respect to himselfe but for the glory of his 
Creator and the Common good of the Creature, Man; Therefore God 
still reserues the propperty of these guifts to himselfe as Ezek: 16. 17. 
he there calls wealthe his gold and his silver etc. Prov: 3. 9. he claimes 
theire seruice as his due honour the Lord with thy riches etc. All 
men being thus (by divine providence) rancked into two sortes, riche 
and poore; vnder the first, are comprehended all such as are able to 
liue comfortably by theire owne meanes duely improued; and all 
others are poore according to the former distribution. There are two 
rules whereby wee are to walke one towards another: Justice and 
Mercy. These are allwayes distinguished in theire Act and in theire 
obiect, yet may they both concurre in the same Subiect in eache 
respect; as sometimes there may be an occasion of shewing mercy to 
a rich man, in some sudden danger of distresse, and allsoe doeing of 
meere Justice to a poor man in regard of some perticuler contract 
etc. There is likewise a double Lawe by which wee are regulated in 
our conversacion one towardes another: in both the former respects, 
the lawe of nature and the lawe of grace, or the morrall lawe or the 
lawe of the gospell, to omitt the rule of Justice as not propperly be- 
longing to this purpose otherwise then it may fall into consideracion 
in some perticuler Cases: By the first of these lawes man as he was 
enabled soe withall [is] commaunded to loue his neighbour as him- 
selfe vpon this ground stands all the precepts of the morrall lawe, 
which concernes our dealings with men. To apply this to the works 
of mercy this lawe requires two things first that every man afford his 
help to another in every want or distresse Secondly, That hee per- 
forme this out of the same affeccion, which makes him carefull of his 
owne good according to that of our Saviour Math: [7. 12.] Whatsoever 
ye would that men should doe to you. This was practised by Abraham 
and Lott in entertaineing the Angells and the old man of Gibea. 
The Lawe of Grace or the Gospell hath some differance from the 
former as in these respectes first the lawe of nature was giuen to man 
in the estate of innocency; this of the gospell in the estate of regeneracy: 
aly, the former propounds one man to another, as the same fleshe and 
Image of god, this as a brother in Christ allsoe, and in the Com- 
munion of the same spirit and soe teacheth vs to put a difference 
betweene Christians and others. Doe good to all especially to the house- 
hold of faith; vpon this ground the Israelites were to putt a difference 
betweene the brethren of such as were strangers though not of the 
Canaanites. gly. The Lawe of nature could giue noe rules for dealeing 
with enemies for all are to be considered as freinds in the estate of 


Theory of State and Society 197 


innocency, but the Gospell commaunds loue to an enemy. proofe[:] 
If thine Enemie hunger feede him; Loue your Enemies doe good to 
them that hate you Math: 5. 44. 

This Lawe of the Gospell propoundes likewise a difference of seasons 
and occasions there is a time when a christian must sell all and giue 
to the poore as they did in the Apostles times. There is a tyme allsoe 
when a christian (though they giue not all yet) must giue beyond theire 
abillity, as they of Macedonia. Cor: 2. 6. likewise community of perills 
calls for extraordinary liberallity and soe doth Community in some 
speciall seruice for the Churche. Lastly, when there is noe other meanes 
whereby our Christian brother may be releiued in this distresse, wee 
must help him beyond our ability, rather then tempt God, in putting 
him vpon help by miraculous or extraordinary meanes. .. . 

1. For the persons, wee are a Company professing our selues fellow 
members of Christ, In which respect onely though wee were absent 
from eache other many miles, and had our imploymentes as farre 
distant, yet wee ought to account our selues knitt together by this 
bond of loue, and liue in the exercise of it, if wee would haue comforte 
of our being in Christ, this was notorious in the practise of the Christians 
in former times, as is testified of the Waldenses! from the mouth of 
one of the adversaries Aeneas Syluius, mutuo [solent amare] pené 
antequam norint, they vse to loue any of theire owne religion even 
before they were acquainted with them. 

aly. for the worke wee haue in hand, it is by a mutuall consent 
through a speciall overruleing providence, and a more then an or- 
dinary approbation of the Churches of Christ to seeke out a place of 
Cohabitation and Consorteshipp vnder a due forme of Government 
both ciuill and ecclesiasticall. In such cases as this the care of the 
publique must oversway all private respects, by which not onely con- 
science, but meare Ciuill pollicy doth binde vs; for it is a true rule 
that perticuler estates cannott subsist in the ruine of the publique. 

gly. The end is to improue our liues to doe more seruice to the Lord 
the comforte and encrease of the body of christe whereof wee are mem- 
bers that our selues and posterity may be the better preserued from the 
Common corrupcions of this euill world to serue the Lord and worke 
out our Salvacion vnder the power and purity of his holy Ordinances. 

Aly for the meanes whereby this must bee effected, they are 2fold, 
a Conformity with the worke and end wee aime at, these wee see are 
extraordinary, therefore wee must not content our selues with vsuall 
ordinary meanes whatsoever wee did or ought to haue done when 
wee liued in England, the same must wee doe and more allsoe where 


198 The Puritans 


wee goe: That which the most in theire Churches maineteine as a 
truthe in profession onely, wee must bring into familiar and constant 
practice,” as in this duty of loue wee must loue brotherly without dis- 
simulation, wee must loue one another with a pure hearte feruently 
wee must beare one anothers burthens, wee must not looke onely on 
our owne things, but allsoe on the things of our brethren, neither 
must wee think that the lord will beare with such faileings. at our 
hands as hee dothe from those among whome wee haue lived... . 
Thus stands the cause betweene God and vs, wee are entered into 
Covenant with him for this worke, wee haue taken out a Commission, 
the Lord hath giuen vs leaue to drawe our owne Articles wee haue 
professed to enterprise these Accions vpon these and these ends, wee 
haue herevpon besought him of favour and blessing: Now if the Lord 
shall please to heare vs, and bring vs in peace to the place wee desire, 
then hath hee ratified this Covenant and sealed our Commission, 
[and] will expect a strickt performance of the Articles contained in 
it, but if wee shall neglect the observacion of these Articles which are 
the ends wee haue propounded, and dissembling with our God, shall 
fall to embrace this present world and prosecute our carnall intencions 
seekeing greate things for our selues and our posterity, the Lord will 
surely breake out in wrathe against vs be revenged of such a periured 
people and make vs knowe the price of the breache of such a Covenant. 
Now the onely way to avoyde this shipwracke and to provide for 
our posterity is to followe the Counsell of Micah, to doe Justly, to 
loue mercy, to walke humbly with our God, for this end, wee must 
be knitt together in this worke as one man, wee must entertaine each 
other in brotherly Affeccion, wee must be willing to abridge our selues 
of our superfluities, for the supply of others necessities, wee must vp- 
hold a familiar Commerce together in all meekenes, gentlenes, patience 
and liberallity, wee must delight in eache other, make others Con- 
dicions our owne reioyce together, mourne together, labour, and suffer. 
together, allwayes haueing before our eyes our Commission and Com- 
munity in the worke, our Community as members of the same body, 
soe shall wee keepe the vnitie of the spirit in the bond of peace, the 
Lord will be our God and delight to dwell-among vs, as his owne 
people and will commaund a blessing vpon vs in all our wayes, soe 
that wee shall see much more of his wisdome power goodnes and truthe 
then formerly wee haue beene acquainted with, wee shall finde that 
the God of Israell is among vs, when tenn of vs shall be able to resist 
a thousand of our enemies, when hee shall make vs a prayse and glory, 
that men shall say of succeeding plantacions: the lord make it like 


Theory of State and Society 199 


that of New England: for wee must Consider that wee shall be as a , 
-Citty vpon a Hill, the eies of all people are vppon vs; soe that if wee 
shall deale falsely with our god in this worke wee haue vndertaken 
and soe cause him to withdrawe his present help from vs, wee shall 
be made a story and a by-word through the world, wee shall open 
the mouthes of enemies to speake euill of the wayes of god and all 
professours for Gods sake; wee shall shame the faces of many of gods 
worthy seruants, and cause theire prayers to be turned into Cursses 
vpon vs till wee be consumed out of the good land whether wee are 
goeing: And to shutt vpp this discourse with that exhortacion of Moses 
that faithfull seruant of the Lord in his last farewell to Irsaell Deut. 30. 
Beloued there is now sett before vs life, and good, deathe and euill 
in that wee are Commaunded this day to loue the Lord our God, and 
to loue one another to walke in his wayes and to keepe his Com- 
maundements and his Ordinance, and his lawes, and the Articles of 
our Covenant with him that wee may liue and be multiplyed, and 
that the Lord our God may blesse vs in the land whether wee goe to 
possesse it: But if our heartes shall turne away soe that wee will not 
obey, but shall be seduced and worshipp . . . other Gods our pleasures, 
and proffitts, and serue them; it is propounded vnto vs this day, wee 
shall surely perishe out of the good Land whether wee passe over this 
vast Sea to possesse it; 
Therefore lett vs choose life, 
that wee, and our Seede, 
may liue; by obeyeing his 
voyce, and cleaueing to him, 
for hee is our life, and 
our prosperity. 


A DEFENCE OF AN ORDER OF COURT MADE 
IN THE YEAR 1637. 


A Declaration of the Intent and Equitye of the Order made at the 
last Court, to this effect, that none should be received to inhabite 
within this Jurisdiction but such as should be allowed by some of 
the Magistrates. 

OR CLEARING of such scruples as have arisen about this order, it is 
in to be considered, first, what is the essentiall forme of a common 
weale or body politic such as this is, which I conceive to be this—The 


consent of a certaine companie of people, to cohabite together, under ,” 


one government for their mutual safety and welfare... . 


200 The Puritans 


It is clearely agreed, by all, that the care of safety and wellfare was 
the original cause or occasion of common weales and of many familyes 
subjecting themselves to rulers and laws; for no man hath lawfull 
power over another, but by birth or consent, so likewise, by the law 
of proprietye, no man can have just interest in that which nsbelonseis 
to another, without his consent. 

From the premises will arise these conclusions. 

1. No common weale can be founded but by free consent. 

2. The persons so incorporating have a public and relative interest 
each in other, and in the place of their cohabitation and goods, and 
laws, &c. and in all the means of their wellfare so as none other can 
claime priviledge with them but by free consent. 

3. The nature of such an incorporation tyes every member thereof 
to seeke out and entertaine all means that may conduce to the well- 
fare of the bodye, and to keepe off whatsoever doth appeare to tend 
to theire damage. 

4. The wellfare of the whole is [not] to be put to apparent hazard 
for the advantage of any particular members. 


From these conclusions I thus reason. 


1. If we heere be a corporation established by free consent, if the 
place of our cohabitation be our owne, then no man hath right to 
come into us &c. without our consent. 

2. If no man hath right to our lands, our government priviledges, 
&c. but by our consent, then it is reason we should take notice of before 
we conferre any such upon them. 

3. If we are bound to keepe off whatsoever appears to tend to our 
ruine or damage, then may we lawfully refuse to receive such whose 
dispositions suite not with ours and whose society (we know) will be 
hurtfull to us, and therefore it is lawfull to take knowledge of all men 
before we receive them. 

4. The churches take liberty (as lawfully they may) to receive or 
reject at their discretion; * yea particular towns make orders to the 
like effect; why then should the common weale be denied the like 
liberty and the whole more restrained than any parte? ... 

10. Seeing it must be granted that there may come such persons 
(suppose Jesuits, &c.) which by consent of all ought to be rejected, it 
will follow that this law (being only for notice to be taken of all that 
come to us, without which we cannot avoyd such as indeed are to 
be kept out) is no other but just and needfull, and if any should be 
rejected that ought to be received, that is not to be imputed to the 


¢ 


Theory of State and Society 201 


law, but to those who are betrusted with the execution of it. And 
herein is to be considered, what the intent of the law is, and by con- 
sequence, by what rule they are to walke, who are betrusted with 
the keeping of it. The intent of the law is to preserve the wellfare of 
the body; and for this ende to have none received into any fellowship 
with it who are likely to disturbe the same, and this intent (I am sure), 
is lawful and goody Now then, if such to whom the keeping of this law 
is committed, be persuaded in theire judgments that such a man is 
likely to disturbe and hinder the publick weale, but some others who 
are not in the same trust, judge otherwise, yet they are to follow theire 
owne judgments, rather then the judgments of others who are not 
alike interested: As in tryall of an offender by a jury; the twelve men 
are satisfied in their consciences, upon the evidence given, that the 
party deserves death: but there are 20 or 40 standers by, who conceive 
otherwise, yet is the jury bound to condemn him according to their 
owne consciences, and not to acquit him upon the different opinion 
of other men, except theire reasons can convince them of the errour 
of theire consciences, and this is according to the rule of the Apostle, 
Rom. 14. 5. Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mynde. 

If it be objected, that some prophane persons are received and 
others who are religious are rejected, I answer Ist, It is not knowne 
that any such thinge hath as yet fallen out. 2, Such a practice may be 
justifiable as the case may be, for younger persons (even prophane 
ones) may be of lesse danger to the common weale (and to the churches 
also) than some older persons, though professors of religion: for our 
Saviour Christ when he conversed with publicans, &c. sayth that such 
were nearer the kingdom of heaven than the religious pharisees, and 
one that is of large parts and confirmed in some erronious way, is 
likely to doe more harme to church and common weale, and is of 
lesse hope to be reclaymed, then 10 prophane persons, who have not 
yet beene hardened, in the contempt of the meanes of grace. 

Lastly, Whereas it is objected that by this law, we reject good 
christians and so consequently Christ himselfe: I answer 1st, It is not 
knowne that any christian man hath beene rejected. 2, A man that 
is a true christian, may be denyed residence among us, in some cases, 
without rejecting Christ, as admitt a true christian should come over, 
and should maintaine community of goods, or that magistrates ought 
not to punish the breakers of the first table,° or the members of churches 
for criminal offences: or that no man were bound to be subject to 
those lawes or magistrates to which they should not give an explicite 
consent, &c. I hope no man will say, that not to receive such an one, 


202 | The Puritans 


were to reject Christ; for such opinions (though being maintained in 
simple ignorance, they might stand with a state of grace yet) they 
may be so dangerous to the publick weale in many respects, as it 
would be our sinne and unfaithfullness to receive such among us, ex- 
cept it were for tryall of theire reformation, I would demand then in 
the case in question (for it is bootelesse curiosity to refrayne openesse 
in things publick) whereas it is sayd that this law was made of pur- 
pose to keepe away such as are of Mr. Wheelwright his judgment 
(admitt it were so which yet I cannot confesse) where is the evill 
of it? If we conceive and finde by sadd experience that his opinions are 
such, as by his own profession cannot stand with externall peace, may 
we not provide for our peace, by keeping of such as would strengthen 
him, and infect others with such dangerous tenets? and if we finde his 
opinions such as will cause divisions, and make people looke at their 
magistrates, ministers and brethren as enemies to Christ and Anti- 
christs, &c. were it not sinne and unfaithfullness in us, to receive more 
of those opinions, which we allready finde the evill fruite of: Nay, 
why doe not those who now complayne joyne with us in keeping out 
of such, as well as formerly they did in expelling Mr. Williams for the 
like, though lesse dangerous? Where this change of theire judgments 
should arise I leave to themselves to examine, and I earnestly entreate 
them so to doe, and for this law let the equally mynded judge, what 
evill they finde in it, or in the practice of those who are betrusted 
with the execution of it. 


FOURNAL 


AY 22, 1639.] The court, finding the number of deputies to be 
much increased by the addition of new plantations, thought 

fit, for the ease both of the country and the court, to reduce all towns 
to two deputies. This occasioned some to fear, that the magistrates 
intended to make themselves stronger, and the deputies weaker, and 
so, in time, to bring all power into the hands of the magistrates;,so as 
the people in some towns were much displeased with their deputies 
for yielding to such an order. Whereupon, at the next session, it was 
propounded to have the number of deputies restored; and allegations 
were made, that it was an infringement of their liberty; so as, after 
much debate, and such reasons given for diminishing the number ef 
deputies, and clearly proved that their liberty consisted not in the 
number, but in the thing, divers of the deputies, who came with in- 
tent to reverse the last order, were, by force of reason, brought to 


’ 


Theory of State and Society 203 


uphold it; so that, when it was put to the vote, the last order for two 
deputies only was confirmed. Yet, the next day, a petition was brought 
to the court from the freemen of Roxbury, to have the third deputy 
restored. Whereupon the reasons of the court’s proceedings were set 
down in writing, and all objections answered, and sent to such towns 
as were unsatisfied with this advice, that, if any could take away those 
reasons, or bring us better for what they did desire, we should be 
ready, at the next court, to repeal the said order. 

The hands of some of the elders (learned and godly men) were to 
this petition, though suddenly drawn in, and without due considera- 
tion, for the lawfulness of it may well be questioned: for when the 
people have chosen men to be their rulers, and to make their laws, 
and bound themselves by oath to submit thereto, now to combine 
together (a lesser part of them) in a public petition to have any order 


repealed, which is not repugnant to the law of God, savors of resisting | 


an ordinance of God; for the people, having deputed others, have no 
power to make or alter laws, but are to be subject; and if any such or- 
der seem unlawful or inconvenient, they were better prefer some rea- 
sons, etc., to the court, with manifestation of their desire to move them 
to a review, than peremptorily to petition to have it repealed, which 
amounts to a plain reproof of those whom God hath set over them, 
and putting dishonor upon them, against the tenor of the fifth com- 
mandment. 

There fell out at this court another occasion of increasing the people’s 
jealousy of their magistrates, viz.: One of the elders, being present 
with those of his church, when they were to prepare their votes for 
the election, declared his judgment, that a governor ought to be for 
his life, alleging for his authority the practice of all the best common- 
wealths in Europe, and especially that of Israel by God’s own or- 
dinance. But this was opposed by some other of the elders with much 
zeal, and so notice was taken of it by the people, not as a matter of 
dispute, but as if there had been some plot to put it in practice, which 
did occasion the deputies, at the next session of this court, to deliver 
in an order drawn to this effect: That, whereas our sovereign lord, 
King Charles, etc., had, by his patent, established a governor, deputy 
and assistants, that therefore no person, chosen a counsellor for life, 
should have any authority as a magistrate, except he were chosen in 
the annual elections to one of the said places of magistracy established 
by the patent. ... That which led those of the council to yield to 
this desire of the deputies was, because it concerned themselves, and 
they did more study to remove these jealousies out of the people’s 


204 The Puritans 


heads, than to preserve any power or dignity to themselves above 
others; . .. And here may be observed, how strictly the people would 
seem to stick to their patent, where they think it makes for their ad- 
vantage, but are content to decline it, where it will not warrant such 
liberties as they have taken up without warrant from thence, as ap- 
pears in their strife for three deputies, etc., when as the patent allows 
them none at all, but only by inference. . . .° 

[September 4, 1639.] The people had long desired a body of laws, 
and thought their condition very unsafe, whilé so much power rested 
in the discretion of magistrates. Divers attempts had been made at 
former courts, and the matter referred to some of the magistrates and 
some of the elders; but still it came to no effect; for, being committed 
to the care of many, whatsoever was done by some, was still disliked 
or neglected by others. At last it was referred to Mr. Cotton and 
Mr. Nathaniel Warde, etc., and each of them framed a model, which 
were presented to this general court, and by them committed to the 
governor and deputy and some others to consider of, and so prepare 
it for the court in the 3d month next. Two great reasons there were, 
which caused most of the magistrates and some of the elders not to 
be very forward in this matter. One was, want of sufficient experience 
of the nature and disposition of the people, considered with the con- 
dition of the country and other circumstances, which made them con- 
ceive, that such laws would be fittest for us, which should arise pro 
re nata upon occasions, etc., and so the laws of England and other 
states grew, and therefore the fundamental laws of England are called 
customs, consuetudines. 2. For that it would professedly transgress 
the limits of our charter, which provide, we shall make no laws re- 
pugnant to the laws of England, and that we were assured we must 
do. But to raise up laws by practice and custom had been no trans- 
gression; as in our church discipline, and in matters of marriage, to 
make a law, that marriages should not be solemnized by ministers, 
is repugnant to the laws of England; but to bring it to a custom by 
practice for the magistrates to perform it, is no law made repugnant, 
etc. At length (to satisfy the people) it proceeded, and the two models 
were digested with divers alterations and additions, and abbreviated and 
sent to every town, to be considered of first by the magistrates and 
elders, and then to be published by the constables to all the people, that 
if any man should think fit, that any thing therein ought to be altered, 
he might acquaint some of the deputies therewith against the next court.” 

[June 21, 1641.] Some of the freemen, without the consent of the 
magistrates or governor, had chosen Mr. Nathaniel Ward to preach 


Theory of State and Society 205 


at this court, pretending that it was a part of their liberty. The governor 
(whose right indeed it is, for till the court be assembled the freemen 
are but private persons) would not strive about it, for though it did 
not belong to them, yet if they would have it, there was reason to 
yield it to them. ... In his sermon he delivered many useful things, 
but in a moral and political discourse, grounding his propositions 
much upon the old Roman and Grecian governments, which sure is 
an error, for if religion and the word of God makes men wiser than 
their neighbors, and these times have the advantage of all that have 
gone before us in experience and observation, it is probable that by 
all these helps, we may better frame rules of government for oursevles 
than to receive others upon the bare authority of the wisdom, justice, 
etc. of those heathen commonwealths. Among other things, he ad- 
vised the people to keep all their magistrates in an equal rank, and 
not give more honor or power to one than to another, which is easier 
to advise than to prove, seeing it is against the practice of Israel (where 
some were rulers of thousands, and some but of tens) and ofall nations _ 
known or recorded. 


WINTHROP’S SPEECH TO THE GENERAL COURT, 
JULY 3, 1645 


I suppose something may be expected from me, upon this charge 
that is befallen me, which moves me to speak now to you; yet I in- 
tend not to intermeddle in the proceedings of the court, or with any 
of the persons concerned therein. Only I bless God, that I see an issue 
of this troublesome business. I also acknowledge the justice of the 
court, and, for mine own part, I am well satisfied, I was publicly 
charged, and I am publicly and legally acquitted, which is all I did 
expect or desire. And though this be sufficient for my justification 
before men, yet not so before the God, who hath seen so much amiss 
in my dispensations (and even in this affair) as calls me to be humble. 
For to be publicly and criminally charged in this court, is matter of 
humiliation, (and I desire to make a right use of it,) notwithstanding 
I be thus acquitted. If her father had spit in her face, (saith the Lord 
concerning Miriam,) should she not have been ashamed seven days? 
Shame had lien upon her, whatever the occasion had been. I am 
unwilling to stay you from your urgent affairs, yet give me leave 
(upon this special occasion) to speak a little more to this assembly. 
It may be of some good use, to inform and rectify the judgments of 
some of the people, and may prevent such distempers as have arisen 


206 The Puritans 


amongst us. The great questions that have troubled the country, are 
about the authority of the magistrates and the liberty of the people. 
It is yourselves who have called us to this office, and being called by 
you, we have our authority from God, in way of an ordinance, such 
as hath the image of God eminently stamped upon it, the contempt 
and violation whereof hath been vindicated with examples of divine 
vengeance. I entreat you to consider, that when you choose magis- 
trates, you take them from among yourselves, men subject to like pas- 
sions as you are. Therefore when you see infirmities in us, you should 
reflect upon your own, and that would make you bear the more with 
us, and not be severe censurers of the failings of your magistrates, 
when you have continual experience of the like infirmities in your- 
selves and others. We account him a good servant, who breaks not 


*. his covenant. The covenant between you and us is the oath you have 


taken of us, which is to this purpose, that we shall govern you and 
judge your causes by the rules of God’s laws and our own, according 
to our best skill. When you agree with a workman to build you a ship 
or house, etc., he undertakes as well for his skill as for his faithfulness, 


_ for it is his profession, and you pay him for both. But when you call 


e 


one to be a magistrate, he doth not profess nor undertake to have 
sufficient skill for that office, nor can you furnish him with gifts, etc., 
therefore you must run the hazard of his skill and ability. But if be 
‘fail i in faithfulness, which by his oath he is bound unto, that he must 
janswer for. If it fall out that the case be clear to common apprehen- 
sion, and the rule clear also, if he transgress here, the error is not in 
the skill, but in the evil of the will: it must be required of him. But 
if the case be doubtful, or the rule doubtful, to men of such under- 
standing and parts as your magistrates are, if your magistrates should 
err here, yourselves must bear it. 

For the other point concerning liberty, I observe a great mistake _ 
in the country about that. There is a twofold liberty, natural (I mean “ 
as our nature is now corrupt) and civil or federal. ‘The first is common 
to man with beasts and other creatures. By this, man, as he stands in 
relation to man simply, hath liberty to do what he lists; it is a liberty 


“ to evil as well as to good. This liberty is incompatible and inconsistent 


with authority, and cannot endure the least restraint of the most just au- 
thority. ‘The exercise and maintaining of this liberty makes men grow 
more evil, and in time to be worse than brute beasts: omnes sumus li- 
centia deteriores. This is that great enemy of truth and peace, that wild 
beast, which all the ordinances of God are bent against, to restrain 
and subdue it. The other kind of liberty I call civil or federal, it may : 


Theory of State and Society 207 


also’ be termed moral, in reference to the covenant between God and .. 
‘ man, in the moral law, and the politic covenants and constitutions, 
amongst men themselves. This liberty is the proper end and object -- 
of authority, and cannot subsist without it; and it is a liberty to that 
only which is good, just, and honest. This liberty you are to stand 
for, with the hazard (not only of your goods, but) of your lives, if need 
be. Whatsoever crosseth this, is not authority, but a distemper thereof. 
This liberty is maintained and exercised in a way of subjection to 
authority; it is of the same kind of liberty wherewith Christ hath made 
_us free. The woman’s own choice makes such a man her husband; 
yet being so chosen, he is her lord, and she is to be subject to him, 
yet in a way of liberty, not of bondage; and a true wife accounts her 
subjection her honor and freedom, and would not think her condition 
safe and free, but in her subjection to her husband’s authority. Such ° 
is the liberty of the church under the authority of Christ, her king 
and husband; his yoke is so easy and sweet to her as a bride’s orna- 
ments; and if through frowardness or wantonness, etc., she shake it 
off, at any time, she is at no rest in her spirit, until she take it up 
again; and whether her lord smiles upon her, and embraceth her in 
his arms, or whether he frowns, or rebukes, or smites her, she ap- 
prehends the sweetness of his love in all, and is refreshed, supported, 
and instructed by every such dispensation of his authority over her. 
On the other side, ye know who they are that complain of this yoke 
and say, let us break their bands, etc., we will not have this man to 
rule over us. Even so, brethren, it will be between you and your 
magistrates) If you stand for your natural corrupt liberties, and will 
do what is good in your own eyes, you will not endure the least weight 
of authority, but will murmur, and oppose, and be always striving 
to shake off that yoke; but if you will be satisfied to enjoy such civil 
and lawful liberties, such as Christ allows you, then will you quietly 
and cheerfully submit unto that authority which is set over you, in 
all the administrations of it, for your good, | Wherein, if we fail at 
any time, we hope we shall be willing (by God’s assistance) to hearken to 
good advice from any of you, or in any other way of God; so shall your 
liberties be preserved, in upholding the honor and power of authority 
amongst you. 


JOHN COTTON, 1584-1652 


[John Cotton, the son of a well-to-do attorney, was born in Derby, 
Derbyshire, and entered Trinity College, Cambridge, at the age of thir- 
teen, taking his B.A. in 1603; he later migrated to Emmanuel College, 


208 The Puritans 


taking his M.A. in 1606. He was chosen fellow and head lecturer 
of the College, was ordained in 1610 and became vicar of St. Botolph’s, 
in Boston, Lincolnshire, in 1612, receiving degree of B.D. in 1613. 
For twenty years he was a conspicuous figure in the Church, enjoying 
a great reputation as a preacher and a theologian, protected from the 
Laudian power by the favor of powerful persons. He preached the 
farewell sermon to Winthrop’s fleet in 1630; in 1633 he was at last 
forced to resign for nonconformity. He came to New England on the 
same ship with Thomas Hooker, the only other minister in New Eng- 
land who could approach him in reputation and learning. He was 
immediately chosen teacher of the Boston church. Though coming 
close to being ruined for the countenance he seemed to give to the 
teachings of Anne Hutchinson, he recovered himself in time, and re- 
mained the dominating figure in the councils of the New England 
clergy. His many writings on church polity were looked upon both 
in New England and in England as the standard expositions of the 
Congregational system, and his more general sermons and writings 
set the model for New England orthodoxy. For biography, see William 
Walker, Ten New England Leaders, and Cotton Mather, Magnalia; bibliog- 
raphy by Julius H. Tuttle in Bibliographical Essays; A Tribute to Wilber- 
force Eames, 1924. 

When the New England migration occurred, the Puritan party in 
England had not yet come to any explicit agreement concerning the 
form of church organization they intended to set up in place of the 
episcopalian; the majority of Puritans had some species of Presby- 
terianism in mind, and they were often very much puzzled as stories of 
the New England system were carried back to England. They were still 
more bewildered when they heard rumors of political practices in 
Massachusetts which were the direct results of the church polity, but 
which seemed to run counter to the traditions and rights of English- 
men. Lord Say and Seal was a Puritan noble who meditated aban- 
doning England; but Massachusetts did not sound too attractive to 
him, for there men were admitted to citizenship, regardless of their 
social position, only when they had become church members, and the 
noble Lord feared that he or some of his friends might be excluded. 
Cotton’s reply is deferential but firm; he defends the franchise re- 
quirement as the very foundation of the Bible Commonwealth. The 
text is from Thomas Hutchinson, History of Massachusetts Bay, Vol. I, 
1764, Appendix IIT. 

The second passage, from a volume of Cotton’s sermons, illustrates _ 
the other side of Puritan political theory, the conception of limitation ” 


Theory of State and Society 209 


by fundamental law and basic right. The letter to Lord Say and Seal 
can be reconciled with this passage only by means of the peculiar 
doctrine of the covenant found in Winthrop’s speech on liberty. The 
text is from An exposition upon the 13th Chapter of the Revelation (London, 
1656), pp. 71-73; published after his death, the book declares that the 
sermons were ““Taken from his mouth in Short-writing.’’] 


COPY OF A LETTER FROM MR. COTTON TO LORD SAY 
AND SEAL IN THE YEAR 1636. 


GHT honourable 

R ...I am very apt to believe, what Mr. Perkins! hath, in one 
of his prefatory pages to his golden chaine, that the word, and scrip- 
tures of God doe conteyne a short upoluposis, or platforme, not onely 
of theology, but also of other sacred sciences, (as he calleth them) at- 
tendants, and handmaids thereunto, which he maketh ethicks, eoco- 
nomicks, politicks, church-government, prophecy, academy. It is very 
suitable to Gods all-sufficient wisdome, and to the fulnes and perfec- 
tion of Holy Scriptures, not only to prescribe perfect rules for the 
right ordering of a private mans soule to everlasting blessednes with 
himselfe, but also for the right ordering of a mans family, yea, of the 
commonwealth too, so farre as both of them are subordinate to spiritual 
ends, and yet avoide both the churches usurpation upon civill juris- 
dictions, in ordine ad spiritualia,? and the commonwealths invasion upon 
ecclesiasticall administrations, in ordine to civill peace, and conformity 
to the civill state. Gods institutions (such as the government of church 
and of commonwealth be) may be close and compact, and co-ordinate 
one to another, and yet not confounded. God hath so framed the 
state of church government and ordinances, that they may be com- 
patible to any common-wealth, though never so much disordered in his 
frame. But yet when a commonwealth hath liberty to mould his owne 
frame (scripture plenitudinem adoro)? I conceyve the scripture hath given 
full direction for the right ordering of the same, and that, in such 
sort as may best mainteyne the euexia* of the church. Mr. Hooker 
doth often quote a saying out of Mr. Cartwright (though I have not 
read it in him) that noe man fashioneth his house to his hangings, ie 
but his hangings to his house. It is better that the commonwealth be 

fashioned to the setting forth of Gods house, which is his church: than 

to accommodate the church frame to the civill state. Democracy, a) 


te Re 

NS. 

te. 
y 


do not conceyve that ever God did ordeyne as a fitt government } 
eyther for church or commonwealth. If the people be governors, who be? 


210 The Puritans 


ae 


Ushall be governed? As for monarchy, and aristocracy, they are both ~ 
of them clearely approoved, and directed in scripture, yet so as re- 
ferreth the soveraigntie to himselfe, and setteth up Theocracy in both, 
as the best forme of government in the commonwealth, as well as in 
the church. 

The law, which your Lordship instanceth in (that none shall be 
chosen to magistracy among us but a church member) was made and 
enacted before I came into the country; but I have hitherto wanted 
sufficient light to plead against it. 1st. The rule that directeth the 
choice of supreame governors, is of like equitie and weight in all 
magistrates, that one of their brethren (not a stranger) should be set 
over them, Deut. 17. 15. and Jethroes counsell to Moses was approved 
of God, that the judges, and officers to be set over the people, should 
be men fearing God, Exod. 18. 21. and Solomon maketh it the joy 
of a commonwealth, when the righteous are in authority, and their 
mourning when the wicked rule, Prov. 29. 21. Jab 34. 30. Your Lord- 
ship’s feare, that this will bring in papal excommunication, is iust, 
and pious: but let your Lordship be pleased againe to consider whether 
the consequence be necessary. Turpius ejicitur quam non admittitur: ° non- 
membership may be a just cause of non-admission to the place of 
magistracy. A godly woman, being to make choice of an husband, 
may justly refuse a man that is eyther cast out of church fellowship, 
or is not yet receyved into it, but yet, when shee is once given to him, 
shee may not reject him then, for such defect. Mr. Humfrey was 
chosen for an assistant (as I heare) before the colony came over hither: 
and, though he be not as yet ioyned into church fellowship (by reason: 
of the unsetlednes of the congregation where he liveth) yet the com- 
monwealth doe still continue his magistracy to him, as knowing he 
waiteth for oppertunity of enioying church fellowship shortly. 

When your Lordship doubteth, that this corse will draw all things 
under the determination of the church, in ordine ad sfiritualia” (seeing 
the church is to determine who shall be members, and none but a 
member may have to doe in the government of a commonwealth) be 
pleased (I pray you) to conceyve, that magistrates are neyther chosen 
to office in the church, nor doe governe by directions from the church, 
but by civill lawes, and those enacted in generall corts, and executed / 
in corts of iustice, by the governors and assistants. In all which, the’ 
church (as the church) hath nothing to doe: onely, it prepareth fitt 
instruments both to rule, and to choose rulers, which is no ambition 
in the church, nor dishonor to the commonwealth, the apostle, on the 


contrary, thought it a great dishonor and reproach to the church of 
2 | 


Theory of State and Society 211 


Christ, if it were not able to yield able judges to heare and determine 
all causes amongst their brethren, I Cor. 6. 1. to 5. which place alone 
seemeth to me fully to decide this question: for it plainely holdeth 
forth this argument: It is a shame to the church to want able judges 
of civill matters (as v. 5.) and an audacious act in any church member 
voluntarily to go for judgment, otherwhere than before the saints (as 
v. 1.) then it will be noe arrogance nor folly in church members, nor 
prejudice to the commonwealth, if voluntarily they never choose any 
civill judges, but from amongst the saints, such as church members 
are called to be. But the former is cleare: and how then can the latter 
be avoyded. If this therefore be (as your Lordship rightly conceyveth 
one of the maine objections if not the onely one) which hindereth 
this commonwealth from the entertainment of the propositions of those 
worthy gentlemen, wee intreate them, in the name of the Lord Jesusy 
to consider, in meeknes of wisdome, it is not any conceite or will of 
ours, but the holy counsell and will of the Lord Jesus (whom they seeke 
to serve as well as wee) that overruleth us in this case: and we trust 
will overrule them also, that the Lord onely may be exalted amongst 
all his servants. What pittie and griefe were it, that the observance 
of the will of Christ should hinder good things from us! 

But your Lordship doubteth, that if such a rule were necessary, 
then the church estate and the best ordered commonwealth in the 
world were not compatible. But let not your Lordship so conceyve. 
For, the church submitteth itselfe to all the lawes and ordinances of 
men, in what commonwealth soever they come to dwell. But it is 
one thing, to submit unto what they have noe calling to reforme: 
another thing, voluntarily to ordeyne a forme of government, which 
to the best discerning of many of us (for I speake not of myselfe) is 
expressly contrary to rule. Nor neede your Lordship feare (which yet . 
I speake with submission to your Lordships better judgment) that this 
corse will lay such a foundation, as nothing but a mere democracy 
can be built upon it. Bodine® confesseth, that though it be status 
popularis, where a people choose their owne governors; yet the govern- 
ment is not a democracy, if it be administred, not by the people, 
but by the governors, whether one (for then it is a monarchy, though 
elective) or by many, for then (as you know) it is aristocracy. In 
which respect it is, that church government is iustly denyed (even by 
Mr. Robinson’) to be democratical, though the people choose their 
owne Officers and rulers. 

Nor neede wee feare, that this course will, in time, cast the com- 
monwealth into distractions, and popular confusions. For (under cor- 


212 The Puritans 


rection) these three things doe not undermine, but doe mutually and 
strongly mainteyne one another (even those three which wee prin- 
‘ cipally aime at) authority in magistrates, liberty in people, purity in 
the church. Purity, preserved in the church, will preserve well ordered 
liberty in the people, and both of them establish well-ballanced 
authority in the magistrates. God is the author of all these three, and 
neyther is himselfe the God of confusion, nor are his wayes the wayes 
of confusion, but of peace. ... 

Now the Lord Jesus Christ (the prince of peace) keepe and bless 
your Lordship, and dispose of all your times and talents to his best 
advantage: and let the covenant of his grace and peace rest upon 
your honourable family and posterity throughout all generations. 

Thus, humbly craving pardon for my boldnesse and length, I take 
leave and rest, 

Your Honours to serve in Christ Jesus, 


JEG. 


LIMITATION OF GOVERNMENT 


HIS may serve to teach us the danger of allowing to any mortall 
man an inordinate measure of power to speak great things, to 
allow to any man uncontrollableness of speech, you see the desperate 
danger of it: Let all the-world learn to give mortall men ne no greater 
power then they are content_they_ shall use, for use it they will: and 
unlesse they be better taught of God, they will use it ever and anon, 
it may be make it the passage of their proceeding to speake what they 
will: And they that have liberty to speak great things, you will finde 
it to be true, they will speak great blasphemies. No man would think 
what desperate deceit and wickednesse there is in the hearts of men: 
And that was the reason why the Beast did speak such great things, 
hee might speak, and no body might controll him: What, saith the Lord 
in Jer. 3. 5. Thou hast spoken and done evill things as thou couldst. If a 
Church or head of a Church could have done worse, he would have 
done it: This is one of the straines of nature, it affects boundlesse 
liberty, and to runne to the utmost extent: What ever power he hath 
received, he hath a corrupt nature that will improve it in one thing 
or other; if he have liberty, he will think why may he not use it. Set 
up the Pope as Lord Paramount over Kings and Princes, and they 
shall know that he hath power over them, he will take liberty to 
depose one, and set up another. Give him power to make Laws, and 
he will approve, and disprove as he list; what he approves is Canonicall, 


Theory of State and Society 213 


what hee disproves is rejected: Give him that power, and he will so 
order it at length, he will make such a State of Religion, that he that 
so lives and dyes shall never be saved, and all this springs from the 
vast power that is given to him, and from the deep depravation of 
nature. Hee will open his mouth, His tongue is his owne, who as Lord 


and Omcers! in Church and ‘Common-wealth, nev never to affect more 
liberty-and-authority_then will do them good, and the People good; 
for what ever transcendant power is given, will certainly over-run those 
that give it, and those that receive it: There is a straine in a mans 
heart that will sometime or other runne out to excesse, unlesse the 
Lord restraine it, but it is not good to venture it: It is necessary there- 
fore, that all power that is on earth be limited, -Church-power_ or 
other: If there be power given to speak great things, then look for 
great blasphemies, look for a licentious abuse of it. It is counted a 
matter of danger to the State to limit Prerogatives; but it is a further 
danger, not to have them limited: They will be like a Tempest, if 
they be not limited: A Prince himselfe cannot tell where hee will 
confine himselfe, nor can the people tell: But if he have liberty to 
speak great things, then he will make and unmake, say and unsay, 
and undertake such things as are neither for his owne honour, nor 
for the safety of the State. It is therefore fit for every man to be studious “ 
of the bounds which the Lord hath set: and for the People, in whom / 
fundamentally all power lyes, to give | as much power as God in his 
word gives to men: And it is meet that Magistrates in the Common- 
wealth, and so Officers in CKurches should desire to know the utmost 
bounds of their own power, and it is safe for both: All intrenchment 
upon the bounds which God hath not given, they are not enlarge- 
ments, but burdens and snares; They will certainly lead the spirit 
of a man out of his way sooner or later. It is wholsome and safe to 
be dealt withall as God deales with the vast Sea; Hitherto shalt thou 
come, but there shalt thou stay thy proud waves: and therefore if they be 
but banks of simple sand, they will be good enough to check the vast. 
roaring Sea. And so for Imperiall Monarchies, it is safe to know how 
far their power extends; and then if it be but banks of sand, which is 
most slippery, it will serve, as well as any brazen wall. If you pinch 
the Sea of its liberty, though it be walls of stone or brasse, it will 
beate them downe: So it is with Magistrates, stint them where God 
hath not stinted them, and if they were walls of brasse, they would 
beate them downe, and it is meet they should: but give them the liberty © 
God allows, and if it be but a wall of sand it will keep them: As this 


214 | The Puritans 


liquid Ayre in which we breath, God hath set it for the waters of the 
Clouds to the Earth; It is a Firmament, it is the Clouds, yet it stands 
firme enough, because it keeps the Climate where they are, it shall 
stand like walls of brasse: So let there be due bounds set, and I may 
apply it to Families; it is good for the Wife to acknowledg all power 
and authority to- the Husband, and for the Husband to acknowledg 
honour to the Wife, but still give them that which God hath given 
them, and no more nor lesse: Give them the full latitude that God 
hath given, else you will finde you dig pits, and lay snares, and cumber 
their spirits, if you give them lesse: there is never peace where full 
liberty is not given, nor never stable peace - where more then ‘Tall Tiberty 
is granted: Let them be duély observed;-and givé men no more liberty 
then God doth, nor women, for they will abuse it: The Devill will 
draw them, and Gods providence leade them thereunto, therefore give 
them no more then God gives. And so for children; and servants, or 
any others you are to deale with, give them the liberty and authority 
you would have them use, and beyond that stretch not the tether, it 
will not tend to their good nor yours: And also from hence gather, 
and goe home with this meditation; That certainly here is this dis- 
temper in our natures, that we cannot tell how to use liberty, but wee 
shall very readily corrupt our selves: Oh the bottomlesse depth of 
sandy earth! of a corrupt spirit, that breaks over all bounds, and loves 
inordinate vastnesse; that is it we ought to be carefull of. 


ROGER WILLIAMS, 1604-1683 


[Roger Williams, son of a London merchant tailor, attracted the 
attention of Sir Edward Coke, the great jurist, through whose influence 
he was elected pensioner at Sutton’s Hospital (Charterhouse) in 1621; 
admitted pensioner at Pembroke College, Cambridge, in 1623, he took 
his B.A. in 1627. He first landed in New England in 1631, and was 
chosen teacher of the church of Salem, but objecting that the church 
had not ‘‘separated” from the Church of England, he refused the 
office and went to Plymouth, where he ministered for a year or so, 
but was not officially ordained; in 1633 he returned to Salem, was 
again chosen minister, and accepted the post. Thereupon he began a 
two-year career of agitation and trouble-making that ended with his 
banishment in October, 1635. He continued to demand that the 
churches of New England announce their separation from the Church 
of England, at a time when all the ingenuity the authorities could 
muster was being expended in proving that they never had seceded 


Theory of State and Society 215 


from the true Church of England; he attacked the charter on the 
ground that the King of England had no title to the land and that — 
the colonists needed only to purchase Massachusetts from the Indians; 

he denied _that a magistrate could tender an oath to an unregenerate 
man, thus promising to upset the whole judicial system of the colony; 
finally, when he was being dealt with for these heresies, he broached 


the idea that the civil magistrates had no power to punish persons“ 


for their religious opinions. Sentence of banishment was pronounced 
upon him in October, 1635, but he was allowed to remain in Salem 
for the winter on condition that he keep quiet; in January the Court 
heard that people of Salem were resorting to his house and sent Cap- 
tain Underhill to arrest him; probably John Winthrop sent him a 
warning, and he fled to the Narragansett country in the dead of 
winter (cf. p. 484). Thus he became the founder of Providence, 
Rhode Island, and the principal guide and statesman for that tu- 
multuous colony. He became a Baptist in 1639, but in a few months 
renounced even that creed, and for the rest of his life called himself a 
“‘seeker,’?. one who was always searching for the pure truth but did, 
not expect to find it in this world. He went to England as agent for 
Rhode Island in 1643; during the voyage he wrote his Key into the 
Language of America; he was always on particularly good terms with 
the Indians, and rendered the colonies of Massachusetts Bay and Con- 
necticut great service as ambassador and spy. While in England he 
became a friend of John Milton and published two books attacking 
John Cotton as the spokesman for the orthodox theory of persecution. 
The more important of these, The Bloudy Tenent of Persecution, was 
ordered by Parliament to be burned by the common hangman. John 
Cotton replied with The Bloudy Tenent, washed, And made white in the 
bloud of the Lambe (London, 1647). Williams secured a charter for the 
Rhode Island settlements, and in 1651 returned to England once more 
to defend this charter; on this occasion he published his reply to 
Cotton’s reply, entitled The Bloody Tenent yet More Bloody: by Mr Cottons 
endevour to wash it white in the Blood of the Lambe. He served as governor 
of Rhode Island from 1654 to 1657, supported himself in his last 
years by trade with the Indians, and died in poverty as a result of 
King Phillip’s War. Biographies by J. M. Straus, 1894, Edmund.-J. 
Carpenter, 1909, James E. Ernst, 1932. This text is from The Bloudy 
Tenent, ed. Samuel L. Caldwell, Publications of the Narragansett Club, 
Vol. III (Providence, 1867).] 


216 


The Puritans 


4 
THE BLOUDY TENENT OF PERSECUTION 


To every Courteous Reader. 


HILE I plead the Cause of Truth and Innocencie 
W against the bloody Doctrine of Persecution for cause 
of conscience, I judge it not unfit to give alarme to my 
selfe, and all men to prepare to be persecuted or hunted 
for cause of conscience. 

Whether thou standest charged with 10 or but 2 
Talents, if thou huntest any for cause of conscience, how 
canst thou say thou followest the Lambe of God who so 
abhorr’d that practice? . . 

Who can now but expect that after so many scores 
of yeares preaching and professing of more Truth, and 
amongst so many great contentions amongst the very best 
of Protestants, a fierie furnace should be heat, and who 
sees not now the fires kindling? 

I confesse I have little hopes till those flames are over, 
that this Discourse against the doctrine of persecution for 
cause of conscience should passe currant (I say not amongst 
the Wolves and Lions, but even amongst the Sheep of 
Christ themselves) yet liberavi animam meam,' I have not 
hid within my breast my souls belief: And although sleep- 
ing on the bed either of the pleasures or profits of sinne 
thou thinkest thy conscience bound to smite at him that 
dares to waken thee? Yet in the middest of all these 
civill and spirituall Wars (I hope we shall agree in these 
particulars. ) 

First, how ever the proud (upon the advantage of an 
higher earth or ground) or’elooke the poore and cry out 
Schismatickes, Hereticks, &c. shall blasphemers and seducers 
scape unpunished? &c. Yet there is a sorer punishment 
in the Gospel for despising of Christ then Moses, even 
when the despiser of Moses was put to death without 
mercie, Heb. 10. 28, 29. He that beleeveth not shall bee . 
damned, Marke 16. 16. 

Secondly, what ever Worship, Ministry, Ministration, 
the best and purest are practised without facth and true 
perswasion that they are the true institutions of God, 
they are sin, sinfull worships, Ministries, &c. And how- 
ever in Civill things we may be servants unto men, yet 
in Divine and Spirituall things the poorest pesant must 
disdaine the service of the highest Prince: Be ye not the 
servants of men, I Cor. 14. 


Theory of State and Society 


Thirdly, without search and triall no man attaines 
this faith and right perswasion, I Thes. 5. Try all 
things. 

In vaine have English Parliamenis permitted English 
Bibles in the poorest English houses, and the simplest 
man or woman to search the Scriptures, if yet against 
their soules perswasion from the Scripture, they should 
be forced (as if they lived in Spaine or Rome it selfe without 
the sight of a Bible) to beleeve as the Church beleeves. 

Fourthly, having tried, we must hold fast, I Thessal. 5. 
upon the losse of a Crowne, Revel. 13. we must not let 
goe for all the flea bitings of the present afflictions, &c. 
having bought Truth deare, we must not sell it cheape, 
not the least graine of it for the whole World, no not 
for the saving of Soules, though our owne most precious; 
least of all for the bitter sweetning of a little vanishing 
pleasure. 

For a little puffe of credit and reputation from the 
changeable breath of uncertaine sons of men. 

For the broken bagges of Riches on Eagles wings: 
For a dreame of these, any or all of these which on our 
death-bed vanish and leave tormenting stings behinde 


them: Oh how much better is it from the love of Truth, ~ 


from the love of the Father of lights, from whence it 
comes, from the love of the Sonne of God, who is the 
way and the Truth, to say as he, John 18. 37. For this 
end was I borne, and for this end came I into the World 
that I might beare witnesse to the Truth. 


THe ANSWER Of Mr. IoHn CotTron oF Boston 
IN NEW-ENGLAND, . . . PROFESSEDLY MAIN- 
TEINING PERSECUTION FOR CAUSE 
OF CONSCIENCE.” 


The Question which you put, is, Whether Persecution 
for cause of Conscience, be not. against the Doctrine of 
Jesus Christ the King of Kings. 

Now by Persecution for Cause of Conscience, I conceive 
you meane, either for professing some point of Doctrine 
which you believe in Conscience to be the Truth, or 
for practising some Worke which in Conscience you be- 
lieve to be a Religious Duty. 

Now in Points of Doctrine some are fundamentall, with- 
out right beliefe whereof a Man cannot be saved: Others 
are circumstantiall or lesse’ principall, wherein Men may 


217 


218 


The Puritans 


differ in judgement, without prejudice of salvation on 
either part. me th 

In like sort, in Points of Practice, some concerne the 
waightier Duties of the Law, as, What God we worship, 
and with what kinde of Worship; whether such, as if it 
be Right, fellowship with God is held; if Corrupt, fellow- 
ship with Him is lost. 

Againe, in Points of Doctrine and Worship lesse Prin- 
cipall: either they are held forth in a meeke and fpeace- 
able way, though the Things be Erroneous or unlawfull: 
Or they are held forth with such Arrogance and Im- 
petuousnesse, as tendeth and reacheth (even of it selfe) 
to the disturbance of Civill Peace. 

Finally, let me adde this one distinction more: When 
we are persecuted for Conscience sake, It is either for Con- 
science rightly informed, or for erronious and blind Con- 
science. 

\. These things premised, I would lay down mine 

~ Answer to the Question in certaine Conclusions. 

First, it is not lawfull to persecute any for Conscience 
sake Rightly informed; for in persecuting such, Christ him- 
selfe is persecuted in them, Acis 9. 4. 

Secondly, for an Erronious and blind Conscience, (even 
in fundamentall and weighty Points) It is not lawfull 
to persecute any, till after Admonition once or twice: and 
so the Apostle directeth, Tit. 3. 10. and giveth the 
Reason, that in fundamentall and principall points of 
Doctrine or Worship, the Word of God in such things 
is so cleare, that hee cannot but bee convinced in Con- 
science of the dangerous Errour of his way, after once or 
twice Admonition, wisely and faithfully dispensed. And 
then if any one persist, it is not out of Conscience, but 
against his Conscience, as the Apostle saith, vers. 11. He 
is subverted and sinneth, being condemned of Himselfe, 
that is, of his owne Conscience. So that if such a Man 
after such Admonition shall still persist in the Errour of 
his way, and be therefore punished; He is not persecuted 
for Cause of Conscience, but for sinning against his Owne 
Conscience. 


REPLY TO THE AFORESAID ANSWER OF Mr. COTTON. 


In a CONFERENCE betweene Truth and Peace. 


Truth. In what darke corner of the World (sweet Peace) 
are we two met? How hath this present evill World. 


Theory of State and Society 


banished Me from all the Coasts & Quarters of it? 
and how hath the Righteous God in judgement taken 
Thee from the Earth, Rev. 6. 4. 

Peace. *Tis lamentably true (blessed Truth) the founda- 
tions of the World have long been out of course: the 
Gates of Earth and Hell have conspired together to in- 
tercept our joyfull meeting and our holy kisses: With what 
a wearied, tyred Wing have I flowne over Nations, King- 
domes, Cities, Townes, to finde out precious Truth? 

Truth. The like enquiries in my flights and travells 
have I made for Peace, and still am told, she hath left 
the Earth, and fled to Heaven. 

Peace. Deare Truth, What is the Earth but a dungeon 
of darknesse, where Truth is not? 

Truth. And what’s the Peace thereof but a fleeting 
dreame, thine Ape and Counterfeit? 

Peace. O where’s the Promise of the God of Heaven, 
that Righteousnes and Peace shall kisse each other? 

Truth. Patience (sweet Peace) these Heavens and Earth 
are growing Old, and shall be changed like a Garment, 
Psal. 102. They shall melt away, and be burnt up with 
all the Works that are therein; and the most high Eternall 
Creatour, shall gloriously create New Heavens and New 
Earth, wherein dwells Righteousnesse, 2 Pet. 3. Our kisses 
then shall have their endlesse date of pure and sweetest 
ioyes? till then both Thou and J must hope, and wait, 
and beare the furie of the Dragons wrath, whose mon- 
strous Lies and Furies shall with himselfe be cast into the 
lake of Fire, the second death, Revel. 20.... 

Truth. In the Answer Mr. Cotton first layes downe 
severall distinctions and conclusions of his owne, ne to 
prove persecution. ... 

Peace. ‘The first distinction is this: By persecution for 
cause of Conscience, “‘I conceive you meane either for 
professing some point of doctrine which you beleeve in 
conscience to be the truth, or for practising some worke which 
you beleeve in conscience to be a religious dutie.[’’ | 

Truth. | acknowledge that to molest any person, Jew 
or Gentile, for either professing doctrine, or practising wor- 
ship meerly religious or spirituall, it is to persecute him, 
and such a person (what ever his doctrine or practice be 
true or false) suffereth persecution for conscience. 

But withall I desire it may bee well observed, that 
this distinction is not full and complete: For beside this 
that a man may be persecuted because he holdeth or 


219 


Truth and 
Peace rarely 
and seldom 
meete. 


The first 
distinction 
discussed. 


Definition of 
persecution 
discussed. 


220 


Conscience 
will not be 
restrained from 
itsown worship, 
nor constrained 
to another. 


Gods people 
must be 


Non-conformi- | 


tants to Evill. 


The difference 
between 
Spirituall and 
Civill Peace. 


The difference 
between the 
Spirituall and 
Civill State. 


The Puritans 


practiseth what he beleeves in conscience to be a Truth, 
(as Daniel did, for which he was cast into the Lyons den, 
Dan. 6.) and many thousands of Christians, because they 
durst not cease to preach and practise what they beleeved 
was by God commanded, as the Apostles answered (Acts 
4. & 5.) I say besides this a man may also be persecuted, 
because hee dares not be constrained to yeeld obedience 
to such doctrines and worships as are by men invented 
and appointed. So the three famous ewes were cast into 
the fiery furnace for refusing to fall downe (in a non-con- 
formity to the whole conforming world) before the golden 
Image, Dan. 3. 21. So thousands of Christs witnesses (and 
of late in those bloudy Marian dayes) have rather chose 
to yeeld their bodies to all sorts of torments, then to sub- 
scribe to doctrines, or practise worships, unto which the 
States and Times (as Nabuchadnezzar to his golden Image) 
have compelled and urged them... 

Truth. ... Gods people were and ought to be Noncon- 
jormitants, not daring either to be restrained from the 
true, or constrained to false Worship, and yet without breach 
of the Civill or Crtve-peace, properly so called. 

Peace. Hence it is that so many glorious and flourishing 
Cities of the World maintaine their Czvill peace, yea the 
very Americans & wildest Pagans keep the peace of their 
Towns or Cities; though neither in one nor the other 
can any man prove a true Church of God in those places, 
and consequently no spirituall and heavenly peace: The 
Peace spirituall (whether true or false) being of a higher 
and farre different nature from the Peace of the place 
or people, being meerly and essentially civill and humane. 

Truth. O how lost are the sonnes of men in this point? 
To illustrate this: The Church or company of worshippers 
(whether true or false) is like unto a Body or Colledge 
of Physitians in a Citie; like unto a Corporation, Society, or 
Company of East-Indie or Turkie-Merchants, or any other 
Societie or Company in London: which Companies may hold 
their Courts, keep their Records, hold disputations; and in 
matters concerning their Soczetze, may dissent, divide, 
breake into Schismes and Factions, sue and implead each 


other at the Law, yea wholly breake up and dissolve 


into pieces and nothing, and yet the peace of the Citie 
not be in the least measure impaired or disturbed; be- 
cause the essence of being of the Cite, and so the well- 
being and peace thereof is essentially distinct from those 
particular Societies; the Cutie-Courts, Citre-Lawes, Citie-' 


Theory of State and Society ° 


punishments distinct from theirs. The Ciztze was before 
them, and stands absolute and intire, when such a Cor- 
poration or Societe is taken down... 

Peace. Yea but it is said that the blinde Pharises mis- 
guiding the subjects of a Civill State, greatly sinne against 
a Civill State, and therefore justly suffer civall punishment; 
for shall the Crvill Magistrate take care of outsides only, 
to wit, of the bodies of men, and not of soules, in labour- 
ing to procure their everlasting welfare? 

Truth. I answer, It is a truth, the mischiefe of a blinde 
Pharises blinde guidance is greater thenif he acted Treasons, 
Murders, &c. and the losse of one soule by his seduction 
is a greater mischiefe then if he blew up Parliaments, 
and cuts the throats of Kings or Emperours, so pretious 
is that invaluable Jewell of a Soul, above all the present 
lives and bodies of all the men in the world! and there- 
fore a firme Justice calling for eye for eye, tooth for tooth, 
life for life; calls also soule for soule, which the blind- 
guiding seducing Pharisee shall surely pay in that dread- 
full Ditch, which the Lord Jesus speakes of, but this 
sentence against him the Lord Jesus only pronounceth 
in His Church, His spirituall judicature, and executes this 
sentence in part at present and hereafter to all eternity: 
Such a sentence no Civill Fudge can passe, such a Death 
no Civill sword can inflict. 

I answer secondly, Dead men cannot be infected, the 


ciwill state, the world, being in a naturall state dead in > 


sin (what ever be the State Religion unto which persons 
are forced) it is impossible it should be infected: .. . 
Moreover as we see in a common plague or infection the 
names are taken how many are to dye, and not one 
more shall be strucke, then the destroying Angel hath 
the names of. So here, what ever be the soule infection 
breathed out from they lying lips of a plague-sicke Pharisee, 
yet the names are taken, not one elect or chosen of God 
shall perish, Gods sheep are safe in His eternall hand and 
counsell, and he that knowes his materiall, knows also his 
mysticall stars, their numbers, and calls them every one 


221 


Soul killing 
the chiefest 
murder. No 
Magistrate 
can execute 
true justice in 
killing soule 
for soule, but 
Christ Jesus 
who by 
typicall death 
in the Law, 
typed out 
spirituall in 
the Gospel. 


A great 
mistake in 
most to 
conceive that 
dead men, 
that is, soules 
dead in sin 
may be 
infected by 
false doctrine. 


All naturall 
men being 
dead in sin, 
yet none 

die everlast- 
ingly but such 
as are there- 
unto ordained. 


by name, none fall into the Ditch on the blinde Pharises | 


backe, but such as were ordained to that condemnation, 
both guid and followers, I Pet. 2. 8. Jude 4. The vessells 
of wrath shall breake and split, and only they to the 
praise of Gods eternall justice, Rom. 9... . 

Truth. ...I observe that he implyes that beside the 
censure of the Lord Jesus, in the hands of his spirituall 


ame 


If the Civill 
Magistrate be 
a Christian, 
he is bound to 
be like Christ 
in saving, not 
destroying 
mens bodies. 


The Civill 
Magistrate 
bound not to 
inflict nor to 
suffer any 
other to 
inflict violence, 
stripes, or any 
corporall 
punishment 
for evill 
against Christ. 


Revel. 13 

13. Fire from 
heaven. 

What the 

fire from 
heaven is 
which the 

fals prophet 
bringeth 
downe. 


Spirituall 
weapons only 
effectuall in 
spirituall & 
soule 

causes. 


° The Puritans 


governours, for any spirituall evill in life or doctrine, the 
Civill Magistrate is also to inflict corporall punishment upon 
the contrary minded: whereas 

First, if the Crvell Magistrate be a Christian, a Disciple 
or follower of the meeke Lambe of God, he is bound to 
be far from destroying the bodies of men, for refusing to 
receive the Lord Jesus Christ, for otherwise hee should 
not know (according to this speech of the Lord Jesus) 
what spirit he was of, yea and to be ignorant of the sweet 
end of the comming of the Son of Man, which was not 
to destroy the bodies of Men, but to save both bodies and 
soules, vers. 55. 56. 

Secondly, if the Civil Magistrate, being a Christian, 
gifted, prophesie in the Church, I Corinth. 1. 14. although 
the Lord Iesus Christ, whom they in their owne persons 
hold forth, shall be refused, yet they are here forbidden 
to call for fire from heaven, that is, to procure or inflict 
any corporall judgement upon such offenders, remembring 
the end of the Lord Jesus his comming, not to destroy 


mens lives, but to save them. 


Lastly, this also concernes the conscience of the Civill 
Magistrate, as he is bound to preserve the civill peace and 
quiet of the place and people under him, he is bound to 
suffer no man to breake the Civill Peace, by laying hands 
of violence upon any, though as vile as the Samaritanes for 
not receiving of the Lord Iesus Christ. | 

It is indeed the zgnorance and blind zeale of the second 
Beast, the false Prophet, Rev. 13. 13. to perswade the 
civill Powers of the earth to persecute the Saints, that is, 
to bring fiery judgements upon men in a judiciall way, and 
to pronounce that such judgements of imprisonment, banish- 
ment, death, proceed from Gods righteous vengeance upon 
such Hereticks. So dealt divers Bishops in France, and Eng- 
land too in Queene Maries dayes with the Saints of God 
at their putting to death, declaiming against them in 
their Sermons to the people, and proclaiming that these 
persecutions even unto death were Gods just judgements 
from heaven upon these Heretickes... . . 

Truth. ...To batter downe Idolatry, false worship, her- 
esie, schisme, blindnesse, hardnesse, out of the soule and spirit, 
it is vaine, improper, and unsutable to bring those weapons 
which are used by persecutors, stocks, whips, prisons, swords, 
gibbets, stakes, &c. (where these seem to prevaile with 
some Cities or Kingdomes, a stronger force sets up againe, 
what a weaker pull’d downe) but against these spiritual. 


Theory of State and Society 


strong holds in the soules of men, Spirituall Artillery and 
weapons are proper, which are mighty through God to 
subdue and bring under the very thought to obedience, or 
else to binde fast the soule with chaines of darknesse, and to 
locke it up in the prison of unbeleefe and hardnesse to eternity. 

I observe that as civill weapons are improper in this 
businesse, and never able to effect ought in the soule: 
So (although they were proper, yet) they are unnecessary, 
for if as the Sprit here saith (and the Answerer grants) 
spirituall weapons in the hand of Church officers are able 
and ready to take vengeance on all disobedience, that is 
able and mighty, sufficient and ready for the Lords worke 
either to save the soule, or to kill the soule of whomso- 
ever, be the party or parties opposite, in which respect 
I may againe remember that speech of ob, How hast 
thou helped him that hath no power? Job 26.... 

Will the Lord Jesus (did He ever in His owne Person 
practice, or did he appoint to) joyne to His Breastplate 
of Righteousnesse, the breastplate of tron and steele? to the 
Helmet of righteousnesse and salvation in Christ, an helmet 
and crest of zron, brasse, or steel, a target of wood to His 
shield of Faith? [to] His two edged sword comming forth 
of the mouth of Jesus, the materiall sword, the worke of 
Smiths and Cutlers? or a girdle of shooes leather to the 
girdle of truth, &c. Excellently fit and proper is that 
alarme and item, Psal. 2. Be wise therefore O ye Kings 
(especially those ten Horns, Rev. 17.) who under pretence 
of fighting for Christ Jesus give their power to the Beast 
against Him, and be warned ye Judges of the Earth: 
Kisse the Son, that is with subjection and affection, acknowl- 
edge Him only the Aing and Judge of soules (in that power 
bequeathed to His Ministers and Churches) lest if His 
wrath be kindled, yea but a little, then blessed are they 
that trust in Him.... 

Peace. Yea but (say they) the godly will not persist in 
Heresie or turbulent Schisme, when they are convinced in 
Conscience, &c. 

Truth. Sweet Truth, if the Civill Court and Magistracy 
must judge (as before I have written) and those Civill 


Courts are as lawfull, consisting of naturall men as of 


godly persons, then what consequences necessarily will fol- 
low, I have before mentioned. And I adde, according 
to this conclusion it must follow, that, if the most godly 
persons yeeld not to once or twice Admonition (as is main- 
tained by the Answerer) they must necessarily be esteemed 


223 


Civill 
weapons 

not only 
improper, but 
unnecessary in 
spirituall 
causes. 


Spirituall 
Ammunition. 
Eph. 6. 
applied 
Materiall and 
Spirituall 
Artillery 
unfitly joyned 
together. 


An alarme to 
civill or 
earthly 
Rulers. 


The doctrine 
of persecution 
necessarily and 
most com- 
monly falls 
heaviest upon 
the most 

godly persons. 


224 


The doctrine 
of persecution 
drives the 
most godly 
persons out of 
the world. 


The bloody 
Tenent. 


The Puritans 


obstinate persons, for if they were godly (saith he) they 
would yeeld. Must it not then be said (as it was by one, 
passing sentence of Banishment upon some, whose god- 
linesse was acknowledged) that he that commanded the 
Judge not to respect the poore in the cause of judgement, 
commands him not to respect the holy or the godly 
person? 

Hence I could name the place and time when a godly 
man, a most desirable person for his trade, &c. (yet 
something different in conscience) propounded his willing- 
nesse and desire to come to dwell in a certaine Towne 
in New England; it was answered by the Chiefe of the 
place, This man differs from us, and wee desire not to 
be troubled. So that in conclusion (for no other reason 
in the world) the poore man, though godly, usefull and 
peaceable, could not be admitted to a Civill Being and 
Habitation on the Common Earth in that Wildernesse 
amongst them. ... 

Peace. Mr. Cotton concludes with a confident perswasion 
of having removed the grounds of that great errour, viz. 
that persons are not to be persecuted for cause of con- 
science. 

Truth. And I beleeve (deare Peace) it shall appear to 
them that (with feare and trembling at the word of 
the Lord) examine these passages, that the charge of 
errour reboundeth backe[,] even such an errour, as may 
well bee called the bloody tenent, so directly contradicting 
the spirit and minde and practice of the Prince of Peace; 
so deeply guilty of the blood of soules compelled and 
forced to Hypocrisie in a spirituall and soule rape; so deeply 
guilty of the blood of the Soules under the Altar, perse- 
cuted in all ages for the cause of Conscience, and so de- 
structive to the civill peace and welfare of all Kingdomes, 
Countries, and Commonwealths. 


LETTER TO THE TOWN OF PROVIDENCE, 


January, 1655 


[Upon his return from England in 1654 Roger Williams found the 
town of Providence torn by internal dissension; he was instrumental 
in restoring order, but soon afterwards a paper was circulating among 
the citizens proclaiming that it was contrary to the Gospel to execute 
judgment upon transgressors against the public or private weal. Wil- 
liams thereupon wrote the following letter to the town in order to 


Theory of State and Society 225 


explain precisely what were the limits he prescribed to the liberal 
views he had maintained against John Cotton and the authorities of 
Massachusetts Bay. This text is from Letters, Publications of the Narra-— 
gansett Club, Vol. VI (Providence, 1874), pp. 278-279. | 


HAT ever I should speak or write a tittle, that tends to such an 
infinite liberty of conscience, is a mistake, and which I have 
ever disclaimed and abhorred. To prevent such mistakes, I shall at 
present only propose this case: There goes many a ship to sea, with 
many hundred souls in one ship, whose weal or woe is common, and 
is a true picture of a commonwealth, or a human combination or 
society. It hath fallen out sometimes, that both papists and protestants, 
Jews and Turks, may be embarked in one ship; upon which supposal 
I affirm, that all the liberty of conscience, that ever J pleaded for, 
turns upon these two hinges—that none of the papists, protestants, 
Jews, or Turks, be forced to come to the ship’s prayers or worship, 
nor compelled from their own particular prayers or worship, if they 
practice any. I further add, that I never denied, that notwithstanding 
this liberty, the commander of this ship ought to command the ship’s 
course, yea, and also command that justice, peace and sobriety, be 
kept and practiced, both among the seamen and all the passengers. 
If any of the seamen refuse to perform their services, or passengers 
to pay their freight; if any refuse to help, in person or purse, towards 
the common charges or defence; if any refuse to obey the common 
laws and orders of the ship, concerning their common peace or preser- 
vation; if any shall mutiny and rise up against their commanders and 
officers; if any should preach or write that there ought to be no com- 
manders or officers, because all are equal in Christ, therefore no mas- 
ters nor officers, no laws nor orders, nor corrections nor punishments; 
—I say, I never denied, but in such cases, whatever is pretended,’ 
the commander or commanders may judge, resist, compel and punish 
such transgressors, according to their deserts and merits. This if 
seriously and honestly minded, may, if it so please the Father of 

lights, let in some light to such as willingly shut not their eyes. 

I remain studious of your common peace and liberty. 
; Roger Williams. 


NATHANIEL WARD, 1578-1652 


[Nathaniel Ward was an older man than most of the first ministers 
in New England and had a much more varied and secular career; 
these facts must be remembered in accounting for his style, the pe- 


226 2 The Puritans 


culiar quality of his writings, his wit, and his part in formulating the 
laws of Massachusetts Bay. He was born at Haverhill, Essex, the son 
of a minister; admitted sizar at Emmanuel College, 1596, he took his 
B.A. in 1600, his M.A. in 1603. He studied and practised law, traveled 
widely on the continent, and became a minister only in 1618. He served 
as chaplain to an English factory at Ebling; returning to England he 
was curate of St. James’s, Picadilly, and of Stondon Massey in Essex. 
A participant in the formation of the Massachusetts Bay Company, 
he came to New England after he was silenced by Laud in 1634. For 
two years he served as minister at Ipswich (of which the Indian name 
was Aggawam), resigned in 1636, but remained in Massachusetts until 
1646. He drew up the Body of Liberties in 1641 (cf. p. 204). Over the 
mantel of his house in Ipswich a former occupant is said to have 
carved three words representing the sum of Puritan ethics: sobriety, 
justice, and piety; Nathaniel Ward added the word laughter. He is 
reported to have said at one time, “I have two comforts to live upon: 
The one is, in the Perfections of Christ: the other is in the imperfec- 
tions of all Christians.’ After his return to England he preached a 
sermon before the House of Commons, and in 1648 was made minister 
of Shenfield, Essex. He wrote his pamphlet in 1645; it was published 
in London in 1647. This text is from the first and third editions. The 
full title of the book is: 

The Simple Cobler of Aggawam in America. Willing to help ’mend his 
Native Country, lamentably tattered, both in the upper-Leather and sole, with 
all the honest stiches he can take. 

And as willing never to bee paid for his work, by Old English wonted pay. 

It is his Trade to patch all the year long, gratis 

Therefore I pray Gentlemen keep your purses. 


It was announced as written by ‘“Theodore de la Guard.” Cf. S. E. 
Morison, Builders of the Bay Colony; J. W. Dean, Nathaniel Ward, 1868; 
New England Historical & Genealogical Register, XVI, 365; XLI, 282.] 


THE SIMPLE COBBLER OF AGGAWAM 


ATHAN is now in his passions, hee feeles his passion approaching; 
he loves to fish in royled waters. Though that Dragon cannot 
sting the vitals of the Elect mortally, yet that Beelzebub can fly-blow 
their Intellectuals miserably: The finer Religion grows, the finer he 
spins his Cobwebs, he will hold pace with Christ so long as his wits 
will serve him. Hee sees himselfe beaten out of grosse Idolatries, 
Heresies, Ceremonies, where the Light breakes forth with power; he 


‘Theory of State and Society | a2 


will therefore bestirre him to prevaricate Evangelicall Truths, and 
Ordinances, that if they will needs be walking, yet they shall laborare 
varicibus,| and not keep their path: he will put them out of time and 
place; Assascinating for his Engineers, men of Paracelsian? parts, 
well complexioned for honesty; for, such are fittest to Mountebanke 
his Chimistry into sicke Churches and weake Judgements. 

Nor shall hee neede to stretch his strength overmuch in this worke: 
Too many men having not laid their foundation sure, nor ballasted 
their Spirits deep with humility and feare, are prest enough of them- 
selves to evaporate their owne apprehensions. Those that are ac- 
quainted with Story know, it hath ever been so in new Editions of 
Churches: Such as are least able, are most busy to pudder in the 
rubbish, and to raise dust in the eyes of more steady Repayrers. Civill 
Commotions make room for uncivill practises: Religious mutations, 
for irreligious opinions: Change of aire, discovers corrupt bodies: Refor- 
mation of Religion, unsound mindes. He that hath any well-faced 
phancy in his Crowne, and doth not vent it now, feares, the pride 
of his own heart will dub him duns for ever. Such a one will trouble 
the whole Israel of God with his most untimely births, though he makes 
the bones of his vanity stick up, to the view and griefe of all that are 
godly wise. The devill desires no better sport then to see light heads 
handle their heeles, and fetch their carreers in a time, when the Roofe 
of Liberty stands open. 

The next perplexed Question, with pious and ponderous men, will 
be: What should be done for the healing of these comfortlesse exul- 
cerations. I am the unablest adviser of a thousand, the unworthiest 
of ten thousand; yet I hope I may presume to assert what follows 
without just offence. 

First, such as have given or taken any unfriendly reports of us New- 
English, should doe well to recollect themselves. We have been reputed 
a Colluvies of wild Opinionists, swarmed into a remote wildernes to 
find elbow-roome for our phanatick Doctrines and practises: I trust 
our diligence past, and constant sedulity against such persons and 
courses, will plead better things for us. I dare take upon me, to be the 
Herauld of New-England so farre, as to proclaime to the world, in 
the name of our Colony, that all Familists, Antinomians, Anabaptists, 
and other Enthusiasts, shall have free Liberty to keep away from us, and 
such as will come to be gone as fast as they can, the sooner the better. 

Secondly, I dare averre, that God doth no where in his word tolerate 
Christian States, to give Tolerations to such adversaries of his Truth, 
if they have power in their hands to suppresse them. 


228 The Puritans 


Here is lately brought us an Extract of a Magna Charta, so called, 
compiled between the Sub-planters of a West-Indian Island; whereof 
the first article of constipulation, firmely provides free stable-roome 
and litter for all kinde of consciences, be they never so dirty or jadish; 
making it actionable, yea, .treasonable, to disturb any man in his 
Religion, or to discommend it, whatever it be. We are very sorry to 
see such professed profanenesse in English Professors, as industriously 
to lay their Religious foundations on the ruine of true Religion; which 
strictly bindes every conscience to contend earnestly for the Truth: to 
preserve unity of spirit, faith and Ordinances, to be all like-minded, 
of one accord; every man to take his brother into his Christian care: 
to stand fast with one spirit, with one minde, striving together for the 
faith of the Gospel: and by no meanes to permit Heresies or erroneous 
opinions: But God abhorring such loathsome beverages, hath in his 
righteous judgement blasted that enterprize, which might otherwise 
have prospered well, for ought J know: I presume their case is generally 
known ere this. 

If the devill might have his free option, I beleeve he would ask 
nothing else, but liberty to enfranchize all other Religions, and to 
embondage the true; nor should he need: It is much to be feared, that 
laxe Tolerations upon State-pretences and planting necessities, will be 
the next subtle Stratagem he will spread, to distate the Truth of God 
and supplant the peace of the Churches. Tolerations in things tolerable, 
exquisitely drawn out by the lines of the Scripture, and pensill of the 
Spirit, are the sacred favours of Truth, the due latitudes of Love, the 
faire Compartiments of Christian fraternity: but irregular dispensa- 
tions, dealt forth by the facilities of men, are the frontiers of errour, 
_ the redoubts of Schisme, the perillous irritaments of carnall enmity. 
My heart hath naturally detested foure things: The standing of the 

. Apocrypha in the Bible; Forrainers dwelling in my Countrey, to crowd 

¥out native Subjects into the corners of the Earth; Alchymized coines; 
/ Tolerations of divers Religions, or of one Religion in segregant shapes: 
~~He that willingly assents to the last, if he examines his heart by day- 
light, his conscience will tell him, he is either an Atheist, or an Here- 
tique, or an Hypocrite, or at best a captive to some lust: polchpiety 
is the greatest impiety in the world. True Religion is Ignis probatzonts, 
which doth congregare homogenea & segregare heterogenta.? 

Not to tolerate things meerly indifferent to weak consciences, argues 
a conscience too strong: pressed uniformity in these, causes much 
disunity. To tolerate more than indifferents, is not to deale indif- 
ferently with God; He that doth it, takes his Scepter out of His hand, 


Theory of State and Society , 229 


and bids Him stand by. The power of all Religion and Ordinances, 
lies in their purity: their purity in their simplicity: then are mixtures. 
pernicious. I lived in a City, where a Papist Preached in one Church, / 
a Lutheran in another, a Calvinist in a third; a Lutheran one part 
of the day, a Calvinist the other, in the same Pulpit: the Religion of 
that place was but motly and meagre, their affections Leopard-like. 

If the whole Creature should conspire to doe the Creator a mis- 
chiefe, or offer him an insolency, it would be in nothing more, then 
in erecting untruths against his Truth, or by sophisticating his Truths 
with humane medley’s: the removing of some one iota in Scripture, 
may draw out all the life, and traverse all the Truth of the whole Bible: 
but to authorise an untruth, by a Toleration of State, is to build a 
Sconce against the walls of Heaven, to batter God out of his Chaire: 
To tell a practicall lye, is a great sinne, but yet transient; but to set 
up a Theoricall untruth, is to warrant every lye that lyes from its 
root to the top of every branch it hath. 

I would willingly hope that no Member of the Parliament fate skil- 
fully ingratiated himselfe into the hearts of the House, that he might 
watch a time to midwife out some ungracious Toleration for his own 
turne, and for the sake of that, some others. I would also hope that 
a word of generall caution should not bee particularly misapplied. 
Yet good Gentlemen, looke well about you, and remember how 
Tiberius plaid the Fox with the Senate of Rome, and how Fabius Maximus 
cropt his eares for his cunning. 


That State is wise, that will improve all paines and patience rather *~ 


to compose, then tolerate differences in Religion. There is no divine 
Truth, but hath much Celestiall fire in it from the Spirit of Truth: 
nor no irreligious untruth, without its proportion of Antifire from the 
Spirit of Error to contradict it: the zeale of the one, the virulency of 
the other, must necessarily kindle Combustions. Fiery diseases seated 
in the spirit, embroile the whole frame of the body; others more ex- 
ternall and coole, are lesse dangerous. They which divide in Religion, 
divide in God; they who divide in him, divide beyond Genus Generalissi- 
mum,* where there is no reconciliation, without atonement; that is, with- 
out uniting in him, who is One, and in his Truth, which is also one. 

Wise are those men who will be perswaded rather to live within 
the pale of Truth where they may bee quiet, than in the purliev’s, 
where they are sure to bee hunted ever and anon, doe Authority what 
it can. Every singular Opinion, hath a singular opinion of it self; 
and he that holds it, a singular opinion of himselfe, and a simple 
opinion of all contra-sentients: he that confutes them, must confute 


230 | The Puritans 


all three at once, or else he does nothing; which will not be done 
without more stirre then the peace of the State or Church can indure. 

And prudent are those Christians, that will rather give what may 
be given, then hazard all by yeelding nothing. To sell all peace of 
Country, to buy some peace of Conscience unseasonably, is more 
avarice than thrift, imprudence than patience: they deale not equally, 
that set any Truth of God at such a rate; but they deale wisely that 
will stay till the Market is fallen. 

My prognosticks deceive me not a little, if once within three seven 
yeares, peace prove not such a penny worth at most Marts in Christen- _ 
dome, that he that would not lay downe his money, his lust, his opinion, 
his will, I had almost said the best flower of his Crowne, for it, while 
he might have had it; will tell his owne heart, he plaid the very ill 
husband. 

Concerning Tolerations I may further assert. 

That Persecution of true Religion, and Toleration of false, are the 
Jannes and JFambres to the Kingdome of Christ, whereof the last is 
farre the worst. Augustines tongue had not owed his mouth one penny- 
rent though it had never spake word more in it, but this, Nullum malum 
pejus libertate errandi.° 

_/ He that is willing to tolerate any Religion, or discrepant way of 
Religion, besides his owne, unlesse it be in matters meerly indifferent, 
either doubts of his owne, or is not sincere in it. 

He that is willing to tolerate any unsound Opinion, that his owne 
may also be tolerated, though never so sound, will for a need hang 
Gods Bible at the Devills girdle. 

Every Toleration of false Religions, or Opinions hath as many 
Errors and sinnes in.it, as all the false Religions and Opinions it 
tolerates, and one sound one more. 

¢ That State that will give Liberty of Conscience in matters of Re- 
VA ligion, must give Liberty of Conscience and Conversation in their 
Morall Lawes, or else the Fiddle will be out of tune, and. some of the 
strings cracke. 

He that will rather make an irreligious quarrell with other Re- 
ligions, then try the Truth of his own by. valuable Arguments, and 
peaceable Sufferings; either his Religion, or himselfe is irreligious. 

Experience will teach Churches and Christians, that it is farre better 
to live in a State united, though somewhat Corrupt, then in a State, 
whereof some Part is Incorrupt, and all the rest divided. 

I am not altogether ignorant of the eight Rules given by Orthodox 
‘Divines, about giving Tolerations, yet with their favour I dare affirme, 


Theory of State and Society Ree 


That there is no Rule given by God for any State to give an Af- sititn 
firmative Toleration to any false Religion, or Opinion whatsoever; 
they must connive in some Cases, but may not concede in any. 

That the State of England (so farre as my Intelligence serves) might 
in time have prevented with ease, and may yet without any great 
difficulty deny both Toleration, and Connivances salva Republica.® 

That if the State of England shall either willingly Tolerate, or weakly 
connive at such Courses, the Church of that Kingdome will sooner 
become the Devills Dancing-Schoole, then Gods-Temple: The Civill 
State a Beare-garden, then an Exchange: The whole Realme a Pais 
base,” then an England. And what pity it is, that that Country which 
hath been the Staple of Truth to all Christendome, should now be- 
come the Aviary of Errors to the whole World, let every fearing heart 
ICE nh « «2 

Concerning Novelties of opinions; I shall expresse my thoughts in 
these briefe passages. First, that Truth is the best boone God ever 
gave the world: there is nothing in the world, any further then 
Truth makes it so; it is better than any creat’ Ens or Bonum, which 
are but Truths twins.’ Secondly, the least Truth of Gods Kingdome, 
doth in its place, uphold the whole kingdome of his Truths; Take 
away the least vericulum° out of the world, and it unworlds all, po-. 
tentially, and may unravell the whole texture actually, if it be not 
conserved by an Arme of extraordinary power. Thirdly, the least 
Evangelicall Truth, is more worth than all the Civill Truths in the 
world, that are meerly so. Fourthly, that Truth is the Parent of all 
Liberty whether politicall or personall; so much untruth, so much 
thraldome, John 8. 32. 

Hence it is, that God is so jealous of his Truths, that he hath taken 
order in his due Justice: First, that no practicall sin is so sinfull as 
some errour in judgement; no men so accursed with indelible infamy 
and dedolent impenitency, as Authours of Heresie. Secondly, that the 
least Error, if grown sturdy and pressed, shall set open the Spittle- 
doore of all the squint-ey’d, wry-necked, and brasen-faced Errors that 
are or ever were of that litter; if they be not enough to serve its turne, 
it will beget more, though it hath not one crust of reason to maintain 
them. Thirdly, that, that State which will permit Errors in Religion, 
shall admit Errors in Policy unavoydably. Fourthly, that that Policy 
which will suffer irreligious errors, shall suffer the losse of so much 
Liberty in one kinde or other, I will not exempt Venice, Rhaguse, the 
Nether-lands, or any. 

An easie head may soon demonstrate, that the prementioned Planters, 


232 : The Puritans 


by Tolerating all Religions, had immazed themselves in the most in- 
tolerable confusions and inextricable thraldomes the world ever heard 
of. I am perswaded the Devill himselfe was never willing with their 
proceedings, for feare it would break his winde and wits to attend such 
a Province. I speak it seriously according to my meaning. How all 
Religions should enjoy their liberty, Justice its due regularity, Civill 
cohabitation morall honesty, in one and the same Jurisdiction, is be- 
yond the Artique of my comprehension. If the whole conclave of Hell 
can so compromise, exadverse, and diametriall contradictions, as to 
compolitize such a multimonstrous maufrey of heteroclytes and quic- 
quidlibets quietly; I trust I may say with all humble reverence, they 
can doe more then the Senate of Heaven. My modus loquend: }° par- 
doned; I entirely wish much welfare and more wisdome to that 
Plantation. ... 

Should I not keep promise in speaking a little to Womens fashions, 
they would take it unkindly: I was loath to pester better matter with 
such stuffe; I rather thought it meete to let them stand by themselves, 
like the Que Genus " in the Grammar, being Deficients, or Redundants, 
not to bee brought under any Rule[.| I shall therefore make bold for 
this once, to borrow a little of their loose-tongue Liberty, and mispend 
a word or two upon their long-wasted, but short-skirted patience: a 
little use of my stirrup will doe no harme. 


Ridentem dicere verum, quid prohibet? 4? 


Gray Gravity it selfe can well beteame, 

That Language be adapted to the Theme. 
He that to Parrots speaks, must parrotise; 
He that instructs a foole, may act th’ unwise. 


It is known more then enough, that I am neither Nigard, nor Cinick, 
to the due bravery of the true Gentry: if any man mislikes a bully 
mong drassock more then I, let him take her for all mee: I honour 
the woman that can honour her self with her attire: a good Text 
alwayes deserves a fair Margent: I am not much offended, if I see a 
trimme, far trimmer than she that wears it: in a word, whatever Chris- 
tianity or Civility will allow, I can afford with London measure: but 
when I heare a nugiperous Gentledame inquire what dresse the Queen 
is in this week; what the nudiustertian fashion of the Court; I mean 
the very newest: with egge to be in it in all haste, what ever it be; 
I look at her as the very gizzard of a trifle, the product of a quarter 
of a cypher, the epitome of nothing, fitter to be kickt, if she were of a 
kickable substance, than either honoured or humoured. 


Theory of State and Society 233 


To speak moderately, I truely confesse, it is beyond the ken of my 
understanding to conceive, how those women should have any true 
grace, or valuable vertue, that have so little wit, as to disfigure them- 
selves with such exotick garbes, as not onely dismantles their native 
lovely lustre, but transclouts them into gant bar-geese, ill-shapen 
shotten shell-fish, Egyptian Hieroglyphicks, or at the best into French 
flurts of the pastery, which a proper English-woman should scorn 
with her heeles: it is no marvell they weare drailes on the hinder 
part of their heads, having nothing as it seems in the fore-part, but 
a few Squirrills braines, to help them frisk from one ill-favor’d fashion 
to another. 


These whimm’ Crown’d shees, these fashion-fansying wits, 
Are empty thin brain’d shells, and fidling Kits, 


The very troublers and impoverishers of mankind. I can hardly 
forbeare to commend to the world a saying of a Lady living sometime 
with the Queen of Bohemiah, I know not where she found it, but it 
is pitty it should be lost. | 


‘The world is full of care, much like unto a bubble; 


Women and care, and care and women, and women and care and trouble. 


The Verses are even enough for such odde pegma’s. I can make my 
self sick at any time, with comparing the dazzling splender where- 
with our Gentlewomen were embellished in some former habits, with 
the gut-foundred goosdome, wherewith they are now surcingled and 
debauched. We have about five or six of them in our Colony: if I see 
any of them accidentally, I cannot cleanse my phansie of them for a 
month after. I have been a solitary widdower almost twelve years, 
purposed lately to make a step over to my Native Country for a yoke- 
fellow: but when I consider how women there have tripe-wifed them- 
selves with their cladments, I have no heart to the voyage, lest their 
nauseous shapes and the Sea, should work too sorely upon my stomach. 
I speak sadly; me thinks it should break the hearts of Englishmen, to 
see so many goodly English-women imprisoned in French Cages, peer- 
ing out of their hood-holes for some men of mercy to help them with 
a little wit, and no body relieves them. 

It is a more common then convenient saying, that nine Taylors 
make a man: it were well if nineteene could make a woman to her 
minde: if Taylors were men indeed, well furnished but with meere, 
morall principles, they would disdain to be led about like Apes, by 
such mymick Marmosets. It is a most unworthy thing, for men that 


234 The Puritans 


have bones in them, to spend their lives in making fidle-cases for 
futilous womens phansies; which are the very pettitoes of infirmity, the 
gyblets of perquisquilion toyes. I am so charitable to think, that most of 
that mystery, would work the cheerfuller while they live, if they might 
be well discharged of the tyring slavery of mis-tyring women: it is 
no little labour to be continually putting up English-women into Out- 
landish caskes; who if they be not shifted anew, once in a few moneths, 
grow too sowre for their Husbands. What this Trade will answer for 
themselves when God shall take measure of Taylors consciences is 
beyond my skill to imagine. There was a time when 


The joyning of the Red-Rose with the White 
Did set our State into a Damask plight. 


But now our Roses are turned to Flore de lices, our Carnations to 
Tulips, our Gilliflowers to pansies, our City-Dames, to an indenomi- 
nable Quaemalry of overturcas’d things. Hee that makes Coates for 
the Moone, had need take measure every noone; and he that makes 
for women, every Moone, to keep them from Lunacy. 

I have often heard diverse Ladies vent loud feminine complaints 
of the wearisome varieties and chargable changes of fashion: I marvell 
themselves prefer not a Bill of redresse. I would Essex* Ladies would 
lead the Chore, for the honour of their County and persons; or rather 
the thrice honourable Ladies of the Court, whom it best. beseemes: 
who may wel presume of a Le Roy le veult from our sober King, a Les 
Seigneurs ont Assentus 3 from our prudent Peers, and the like Assentus 
from our considerate, I dare not say wife-worne Commons: who I 
beleeve had much rather passe one such Bill, than pay so many 
Taylors Bills as they are forced to doe. 

Most deare and unparallel’d Ladies, be pleased to attempt it: as 
you have the precellency of the women of world for beauty and feature; 
so assume the honour to give, and not take Law from any, in matter of 
attire: if ye can transact so faire a motion among your selves unan- 
imously, I dare say, they that most renite, will least repent. What 
greater honour can your Honors desire, then to build a Promontory 
president to all foraigne Ladies, to deserve so eminently at the hands 
of all the English Gentry, present and to come; and to confute the 
opinion of all the wise men in the world; who never thought it possible 
for women to doe so good a work. 

* [Ward’s note, marginal in the original:] All the Counties and shires of England 


have had wars in them since the Conquest, but Essex, which is onely free, and should 


be thankful. 


/ 


Theory of State and Society 225 


[Added in 34 ed.|—If any man think I have spoken rather merrily 
than seriously he is much mistaken, I have written what I write with 
all the indignation I can, and no more then I ought. I confesse I 
veer’d my tongue to this kinde of Language de industria though un- 
willingly, supposing those I speak to are uncapable of grave and 
rationall arguments... 

There is a quadrobulary saying, which passes current in the Westerne 
world, That the Emperour is King of Kings, the Spaniard, King of 
- Men, the French, King of Asses, the King of England, King of Devills: 
By his leave that first brayed the speech, they are pretty wise Devills 
and pretty honest; the worst they doe, is to keep their Kings from 
Divelizing, and themselves from Assing: Were I a King (a simple 
supposall) I would not part with one good English Divell, for two 
of the Emperours Kings nor three of the Spaniards Men, nor foure 
French Asses; if I did, J should thinke my selfe an Asse for my labour. 
I know nothing that Englishmen want, but true Grace, and honest 
pride: let them be well furnisht with those two, I feare they would 
make more Asses, then Spaine can make men, or the Emperour Kings. 
You will say I am now beyond my latchet; but you would not say 
so, if you knew how high my latchet will stretch, when I heare a lye 
with a latchet, that reaches up to his throat that first forged it. 

He is a good King that undoeth not his Subjects, by any one of his 
unlimited Prerogatives: and they are a good People, that undoe not 
their Prince, by any one of their unbounded Liberties, be they the 
very least: I am sure either may, and I am sure neither would be 
trusted, how good soever. Stories tell us in effect, though not in termes, 
that over-risen Kings, have been the next evills to the world, unto 
falne Angels; and that over-franchized people, are devills with smooth 
snaffles in their mouthes. A King that lives by Law, lives by love; 
and he that lives above Law, shall live under hatred doe what he 
can. Slavery and Knavery goe as seldome asunder, as Tyranny and 
Cruelty. 

I have a long while thought it very possible, in a time of Peace, 
and in some Kings Reigne, for disert Statesmen, to cut an exquisite ” 
thred between and quite through Kings Prerogatives, and Subjects 
Liberties of all sorts, so as Cesar might have his due, and People their 
share, without such sharpe disputes. Good Casuists would case it, and 
case it, part it and part it, now it, and then it, punctually. Aquinas, 
- Suarez, or Valentia,'* would have done it long ere this, and they not 
been Popish, I might have said knavish; for, if they be so any where, 
it is in their Tractates of Priviledges. ‘Our Common Law doth well, 


236 The Puritans 


but it must doe better before things doe as they should. There are 
some Maximes in Law, that would bee taught to speak a little more 
mannerly, or else well Anti-maxim’d: we say, the King can doe a Sub- 
ject no wrong; why may we not say, the Parliament can do the King 
no wrong? We say, Nullum tempus occurrit Regi 1° in taking wrong; why 
may we not say, Nullum tempus succurrit Regi © in doing wrong? which 
I doubt will prove a better Canon, if well examined. 

y Authority must have power to make and keep people honest; People, 
honesty to obey Authority; both, a joynt-Councell to keep both safe. 
Morall Laws, Royall Prerogatives, Popular Liberties, are not of Mans 
making or giving, but Gods: Man is but to measure them out by Gods 
Rule: which if mans wisdome cannot reach, Mans experience must 
mend: And these Essentialls, must not be Ephorized or Tribuned by 
one or a few Mens discretion, but lineally sanctioned by Supreame 
Councels. In pro-re-nascent occurrences, which cannot be foreseen; Diats, 
Parliaments, Senates, or accountable Commissions, must have power 
to consult and execute against intersilient dangers and flagitious crimes 
prohibited by the light of Nature: Yet it were good if States would 
let People know so much before hand, by some safe woven manifesto, 
that grosse Delinquents may tell no tales of Anchors and Buoyes, nor 
palliate their presumptions with pretence of ignorance. I know no 
difference in these Essentialls, between Monarchies, Aristocracies, or 
Democracies; the rule and reason will bee found all one, say Schoole- 
men and Pretorians what they will. And in all, the best Standard to 
measure Prerogatives, is the Plough-staffe; to measure Liberties, the 

- Scepter: if the tearmes were a little altered into Loyall Prerogatives 
and Royall Liberties, then we should be sure to have Royall Kings 
and Loyall Subjects. | 


Subjects their King, the King his Subjects greets, 
Whilome the Scepter and the Plough-staffe meets. 


But Progenitors have had them for four and twenty predecessions: 
that would be spoken in the Norman tongue or Cimbrian, not in 
the English or Scottish: When a Conquerour turnes Christian, Chris- 
tianity turnes Conquerour: if they had had them time out of minde 
of man, before Adam was made, it is not a pin to the point in foro 
recte rationis:17 Justice and Equity were before time, and will be after 
it: Time hath neither Politicks nor Ethicks, good nor evill in it; it is 
an empty thing, as empty as a New-English purse, and emptier it 
cannot be: a man may break his neck in time, and in a lesse time then 
he can heale it. 


Theory of State and Society 207 


JONATHAN MITCHELL, 1624-1668 


[Jonathan Mitchell, the intellectual leader of New England in the 
second generation, was born at Halifax, Yorkshire, and was brought 
by his parents to New England in 1635. Graduated from Harvard in 
1647, he was chosen to the important post of minister at Cambridge, 
where he married the widow of his great predecessor, Thomas Shepard. 
He was the leader of the movement for the Half-Way Covenant, was 
the tutor and mentor of Increase Mather. This text is from Nehemiah 
on the Wall in Troublesome Times (Cambridge, 1671), an election sermon 
preached in 1667. Cf. life in Cotton Mather, Magnalia, and J. L. 
Sibley, Biographical Sketches. ] 


NEHEMIAH ON THE WALL 
Cy. rulers] are especially to seek the welfare of the people of God: or 


to seek the welfare of the people over whom they are Rulers, 
especially when as they are the Lords people. ... 

VSE I. This Point shews us what ought to be the general End 
and Rule of all the Motions and Actions of Rulers, viz. the welfare 
of the poeple. To that scope Nehemiah bends all his Actions and En- 
deavours; and Finis est mensura mediorum, the End serves to measure, 
regulate, direct and limit the means, and shew what should be done. 
That Maxime of the Romans was and is a Principle of right Reason, 
Salus Populi Suprema Lex, (The welfare of the People is the Supreme 
Law) and is engraven on the Forehead of the Law and Light of Nature. 
Hence it is owned and confirmed by the Scriptures, as we see in the 
Text; and it is easily deducible from the Law of God: for that that 
is indeed the Law of Nature, is a part of the Eternal Law of God; 
and the Law of God enjoyns, that in Humane Civil Affairs, things 
be managed according to right Reason and Equity; and that Rulers, 
as they are for the people, so they are to make it their main business, 
and the scope of all their Actions, Laws and Motions, to seek the wel- 
fare of the people. There is Sun-light for this Maxime, and it was 
never doubted nor denied by any that held but to Rational and Moral 
Principles. Hence this Law being Supreme, it limits all other Laws 
and Considerations. Hence it is impossible that a people or their Rulers 
should be bound by any other Law, or Custome, or Consideration 
_ whatsoever, to do any thing that is really and evidently contrary to 
this. If it be indeed contrary or destructive to the welfare of the people, 
(of the Community they stand charged with) it is impossible they 
should be bound in Conscience to do it. 


238 The Puritans 


This is the Compass that Rulers are to steer. by, and the Touch-stone 
of Right and Wrong in all their Motions, viz. What is for or against 
the Publick good, and the Welfare of the people, Rom. 13. 14. That 
bounds and regulates his whole Ministration. What is for the Common 
good, that and that only you are to do; and all that are set in place 
of Rule and Government (be they of higher or of lower quality) do 
stand charged with the welfare of that people, whom they are Rulers 
over. . 

I know when it comes to particulars, the doubt will still be, What 


is for the welfare of the people. One will say, this is most for the common » 


good, another that. But 

1. It will help much if this Principle be setled and acknowledged, 
That in Civil Affairs, the Consideration of the welfare of the whole, 
is that which shews and determines what is right, and weighs down 
all other Considerations whatsoever. Men will say, We must do what 


is right, whatsoever comes of it: Fiat Justitia ruat Celum. True, but” 


it is most certain it is not right, if it be against the welfare of the people. 
It is impossible that any thing should be truly right, that is destructive 
to the common good: for it will constantly hold, Salus Populi Suprema Lex. 

2. Consider the things wherein the welfare of a people does consist, 
which are above-mentioned, (viz. Religion in the first place, and then 
their Safety, or. the Preservation of their Being, both Personal and 
Political, and their participation in the Rules and Fruits of Righteous- 
ness, Equity, Order and Peace) and that will help to discover and dis- 
cern what is for the welfare of the people, or for the common good, 
and what not. There is need of much prudence and wariness in par- 
ticular Applications and Cases; but those general Principles will hold, 
That a peoples welfare lies in such things as these, and that Rulers 
are bound in all their Motions and Actions to seek the welfare of the 
people, and to do nothing contrary thereunto. ; 

VSE II. Hence see, that difficulties and troubles do not excuse, nor 
should discourage Rulers from doing the work of their Places which God 
calls them unto, or from seeking the welfare of the people: Such things 
do not excuse, nor should discourage from taking and accepting the 
Place of Rule when called to it. As they did not Nehemiah, though he 
heard before that their condition was a condition of great affliction 
and reproach, Neh. 1. 3. yet he voluntarily left the Court of Persia, 
to embarque with the Jews at Jerusalem, when in so stormy a time as 
this was; and how is he honoured in the Book of God for it? It was a 
difficult time and task that Moses was sent upon, accompanied also 
with a deep sense of his own infirmity and unfitness, Exod. 3. 4. he 


Pac] 


_ Theory of State and Society 239 


could not but be slow and backward to such a work; but yet when 
he was over-backward the Lord grew angry, and chides him into a 
consent: but (I say) difficulties and troubles should not discourage nor 
hinder Rulers from doing the work of their Places when set therein, 
i.e. from faithful seeking and acting for the welfare of the people, 
which is (as we have said) the summary work of the Rulers Place. 
Consider a little the difficulties that lay upon the Jews and their 
Rulers at this time in Jerusalem, after their return from Captivity, 
and in the dayes of Nehemiah. 

1. They were a small, weak and despised people, Nehem. 4. 1, 2, 4. 
@ 1.3. @ 2. 19. Contempt and reproach is a bitter and killing thing 
to ingenuous Spirits; yet this they were fain to bear and pass through. 
It was a day of small things, which others, yea even themselves are apt 
to despise, <ech. 4. 10. 

2. They were in the midst of Enemies, and Adversaries round about 
them, of several sorts and Nations; Sanballat a Moabite, (from Horonaim 
a chief City of Moab, Isa. 15. 5. Jer. 48. 3, 5, 34. called the Horonite) 
and Tobiah the Servant, the Ammonite, on the East, Neh. 2. 10. (The 
Servant, he was Governour of the Ammonites, but of a base and servile 
spirit; some think that of a mean man, he was got into Place, and 
therefore is called Tobiah the Servant: such are often worst, Prov. 30. 
21, 22.) Geshem the Arabian (Neh. 6.1. @ 4. 7.) and others on the South; 
and the Samaritans on the North, Neh. 4. 2. Ezra 4. 9, 10. Thus they 
were beset round with Adversaries, and Ill-willers, and many In- 
formers and Complainers there were against them, as before in the 
dayes of <erubbabel, Ezra 4. @ 5. 

3. Their Adversaries did labour to affright them with the Accusa- 
tion of Rebellion, Neh. 2. 19. an old Artifice, but it was an injurious 
Calumny, and most groundless Accusation. The building of the Wall 
of Jerusalem for self-preservation, had nothing in it of Rebellion: but many 
clamours and stories they raised of that nature, Neh. 6. 6, 7, 8. and 
see their end therein, ver. 9. to weaken and discourage them from 
their work, that their hearts and hands might fail them therein, that 
was it they aimed at.? 

4. There were Discontents and Divisions among themselves, Neh. 5. 
1. Great Complaints of the Inferiour sort against their Superiours; of the 
Poor against the Rich; of Brethren against Brethren: yea, there were 
among themselves that were helpers to their Adversaries, and complied 
with them, even some chief men and others, Neh. 6. 17, 18. and thereby, 
among other evils, it came to pass that nothing could be kept within 
its due compass, but every thing was carried and reported to their 


240 The Puritans 


Adversaries, ver. 19. They uttered my words (or my matters) unto him; 
and that doubtless not in the fairest dress. Yea, there were some of the 
Prophets that endeavoured to weaken the hands of faithful Nehemiah, 
and to put discouragement upon him, Weh. 6. 10, (This Shemaiah is 
conceived to be the same that is mentioned Ezra 8. 16.) 11, 12, 13. 
(By the way, who would have said that that.would have been a sin, 
which might seem to be a prudent retirement for safety? yea, but for 
Nehemiah, in a case so circumstanced, to act fear and discouragement 
to the prejudice of his Cause and Work, would have been a sin.) But 
ver. 14. there were also that raised Slanders of others of their Prophets, 
those it’s like who were of another minde, ver. 7. 

5. They were poor, and low, and weak as to outward estate, con- 
flicting with wants and straits, and many difficulties in that respect, 
very unable to support themselves, and to bear the Publick Burthens 
that were then upon them, Neh. 5. 2-5. and ver. 18. The bondage was 
heavy upon this people: Neh. 9. 37. We are in great distress. 

6. Hence there was hard Work, and weak Instruments, ready many 
times to be discouraged, Neh. 4. 10. the Workmen themselves, and those 
that should joyn hands together to labour and carry on the work, 
began to mutter and be discouraged, by the difficulty of the work, 
and their own weakness; We are not able, say they, to carry it on: At 
the same time when the Adversaries were high, preszdent and threatning, 
ver. 11. their own workmen began to be disheartned and diffident, 
ver. 10. Here was a juncture of discouraging trial. Hence hard shifts 
they were fain to make to carry on the work, and to put forth them- 
selves to the utmost, and beyond an ordinary measure, by the care 
and courage and conduct of good Nehemiah, ver. 16, 17. Every one had 

i both his hands full, and they were fain to do two works at once, the 
/ work of a Souldier, and of a Labourer, ver. 18, 21, 22, 23. 

7. It was a time of many fears; wherein they had many fears among 
them, and many that heightned those fears: many Reports, ‘Threatnings 
and fore-speakings of this, and that, to that purpose, Neh. 4. 12. © 
6. 9, 13, 14, 19. It is observeable, that that was the drift and endeavours 
of Adversaries and IIl-willers, Fear, fear, fear; a discouraging Heart and 
‘Hand-weakning carnal fear. The great word of God to godly Rulers is, 
Be strong, and of a good courage, fear not when in Gods way and work, 

+ Josh. 1. 6, 7, 9. But the word of Satan and his Instruments is, Fear, 
be afraid, look upon the danger of being faithful: But (as to man and 
second Causes) they had many very great causes of fear, many dangers 
round about them, and to be faithful in duty in a time of fear, proves 
a difficult task to flesh and blood. 


Theory of State and Society 241 


8. Which was worst of all, Among this people of the Jews after 
Captivity, when engaged in Reforming work, there were many sins, 
disorders and miscarriages, which were provoking unto God, and a 
great exercise of discouragement to their faithful Leaders; such in 
Ezra’s time as made him blush before God, and fear what God would 


do with them, Ezra g. 6, 10, 14. And before that in Haggai’s time, —~ 


such neglects of carrying on Temple-work, and of finishing what was 
begun, as he sharply reproves, yea as God reproved from Heaven, 
by Drought, Blastings, Gc. Wag. 1.25.5, 6; 9, 10, 1r., Go 216,17. 
And here in Nehemiahs time there were faults, evils and distempers 
found ‘among them, as Neh. 5. 1; 6,7, 9. @ :13.'4, 5, 10, 15; 48; 23, 
24, 26, 27. not onely matter of Affliction, but sinful Corruptions and 
Distempers do sprout up among a Reforming people, and those they 
have to wrestle with: yet neither did these take them or their Leaders 
off from their Work, nor utterly overturn it; nor did the Lord cast 
them off (though he chastened them) but helped them along, though 
in much infirmity. He was with them at many a dead lift, (Hag. 2. 4.) 
and after frowns, yet smiled on them again: especially while the Leaders 
were faithful to search out and testifie against evil, and to set upon 
duty when called to it; and the people were willing to hearken to them, 
and to be reduced and reformed by them: both which may be ob- 
served of them all along in the story, Hag. 1. 12, 13. Ezra 10. 2, 3, 
AR ees 2, TAL 

9. Lastly, we may remember the long time wherein this poor people 
were conflicting and labouring under Difficulties and Infirmities, and 
what a succession of Difficulties and Troubles did attend them in the 
Reforming, and Rebuilding work they were upon. From their first 
Grant by Cyrus, unto the beginning of Nehemiahs Government (in the 
twentieth year of Artaxerxes) according to the shortest Account, were 
82 years (so Usher in his Annals. Junius saith 146. Lightfoot saith but 37, 
but few embrace that.) Almost all that time, & so afterward in the 
time of Nehemiahs Government, they were followed with various Trou- 
bles and Exercises (as the story at large tells us) though they had their 
lucid Intervals, and the Lord still helping in the issue. 

Thus that word was made good, Dan. 9g. 25. that Jerusalem, both 
City and Wall, should be built again in troublous times. Yet notwithstanding 
all this, they went on in their Work with Courage, and Constancy, and 


Confidence in God, Neh. 2. 20. and he did prosper them, not by pre- | 


venting Difficulties, but by carrying on the Work in their hands through 
all Difficulties, and in the midst of all their Infirmities. And it is observe- 
able, That every Tragedy they passed through, had a glad Catastrophe; 


. 


va 


242 The Puritans 


every stress had a comfortable issue: God still helped them in the con- 
clusion and upshot of every business, that they came off well at last, 
though with much tugging and wrestling, much exercise of Faith and 
Patience. So in the Building of the Temple, (thus it went on heavily, 
and met with many obstructions, and many Adversaries; yet they got 
through at last, to their great joy) Ezra 6. 15, 16, 22. So here in the 
_ building of the Wall, Neh. 6.15, 16. G 12. 27, 43. And so in the Reforma- 
tion of Abuses, Ezra 10. Neh. 5. G 13. The story of the Church in all 
Ages, & especially in the Scripture, informs us, that the best and great- 
/# est works God hath delighted to carry on through many Difficulties 
and Oppositions, and in much felt infirmity of Instruments. The time 
of Moses, of David, of Israel, all along in the Old Testament, will furnish 
us with many Instances of it; yea and also of the Apostles in their Work 
under the New Testament, Act. 20. 19. 1 Cor. 16. 9. © 3.3.2 Cor. 11. 23 
28, 29, 30. Gal. 4. 13, 14. the glorious Gospel must be preached & 
carried on through Infirmity of the flesh, i.e. through outward meanness 
and affliction of Instruments, yet not therefore to be despised. The 
whole Church of God, and every particular concernment thereof, is in 
a Militant conflicting condition in this world, and it must be ng@ stum- 
bling to us to see it so: it occasions the more exercise of Faith, Patience, 
Prayer, &c. in the work (as we see in the example of Nehemiah all along) 
and the more of God to appear in the issue of it, Neh. 6. 16. 
Go on therefore in the Work of the Lord, and in the Service of your 
several Places, and be not taken off by trouble, difficulties, oppositions, 
V felt infirmities in your selves, weaknesses and distempers in persons and 
_ things round about you, (which will alwayes be.) When were there 
work for Patience, Faith, Fortitude, Self-denial, and for the Spirit of a 
Souldier, Wrestler, &c. if it were not for such things? We must none 
of us say, of one Order or other, I will serve God in my place, and 
help build the Wall of Jerusalem, if I may do it with ease, and tran- 
quility, without trouble, without hazard, without reproaches, and ill 
requitals from men. &c. Christ is little beholden to us, if that be all 
we will do for him; that is too low for the Spirit of a good Souldier of - 
Christ Jesus, 2. Cor. 6. 4, 5, 8. Yea, now you look like the Ministers of 
‘. God, when you cheerfully discharge your Places, though surrounded 
and loaden with Afflictions, Distresses, Labours, false Reproaches, &c. 
Now you are drest like a Minister, like a Servant of God, and of his 
people in Publick Work; and through such things as these, you must 
go on in your Work, as the Apostles then did. 


Theory of State and Society 243 


WILLIAM STOUGHTON, 1631-1701 


[William Stoughton was the second son of Israel Stoughton, who 
came to New England in 1630, a founder of Dorchester and a large 
land owner. William graduated from Harvard in 1650, went to Oxford, 
where he became a fellow of New College and received his M.A. in 
1653. He was a curate in Sussex in 1659, was ejected from his church 
and from his fellowship at the Restoration, and returned to Massachu- 
setts in 1662. He preached at Dorchester, but refused to be ordained, 
and turned from theology to law and politics. He was an Assistant, 
1671-1686; Commissioner of the United Colonies, 1674-1676, 1680— 
1686; a judge, and an agent of the colony in England, 1676-1679. He 
was a friend of Joseph Dudley, by whom he was appointed deputy 
governor in 1686; he remained on Andros’s council, but went over to 
the Revolution in 1688. Named lieutenant governor under the new char- 
ter in 1692, he became acting governor in 1694 and was the real head 
of the colony from then until his death, except for the few months in 
1699 and 1700 when Bellomont was in Boston. He was chief justice 
of the special court which tried and condemned the witches at Salem 
in 1692, and he is said never to have repented his share in the pro- 
ceedings. The text is from New-Englands True Interest; Not to Lie (Cam- 
bridge, 1670), an election sermon preached on April 29, 1668. Cf. Sibley, 
Biographical Sketches.| 


NEW-ENGLANDS TRUE INTEREST 


nbd here I shall consider that the words of the Text are spoken 
A concerning a People, even the Body of a Nation; and so my 
endeavour shall be to apply the Truths delivered, unto this present 
Assembly standing before the Lord this day as the Body of this People: 
Such in several respects is the Capacity of this solemn Congregation, 
and unto you as such, my desire is to speak in the Name of the Lord. 
For many a day and year, even from our first beginnings hath this word 
of the Lord been verified concerning us in this Wilderness; The Lord 
hath said of New-England, Surely they are my People, Children that will not 
lie, so hath he been our Saviour. Upon this Basis have all the Savzourly 
Undertakings of the Lord been founded in the midst of us, and upon this 
bottom do we unto this day abide. 

The solemn work of this day is Foundation-work; not to lay a new 
Foundation, but to continue and strengthen, and beautifie, and build 


244 The Puritans 


upon that which hath been laid. Give me leave therefore, Honoured 
and Beloved, to awaken, and call upon you, in the Name of him who 
sends me, with reference unto those Foundations that are held forth to 
us in the Text, for if these should be out of course, what could the 
Righteous do? If we should so frustrate and deceive the Lords Expecta- 
tions, that his Covenant-interest in us, and the Workings of his Salva- 
tion be made to cease, then All were lost indeed; Ruine upon Ruine, 
Destruction upon Destruction would come, until one stone were not 
left upon another. . 

Use 1. Of Information; to let New-England know what that gracious 
infinitely wise, holy and awful dispensation of divine Providence is, 
under which the Lord hath set us and continued us unto this day. We 
must look upon our selves as under a solemn divine Probation; It hath been 
and it is a Probation-time, even to this whole People. Under great 
hopes, and singular eminent Expectations hath the Lord our God 
been trying of us, and is yet trying us in the wayes of his Salvation. 
There is this one voice of all his Providences towards us; they call aloud 


“unto us in this language of a Probation-time, To day if this my people 


will hear my voice; To day if they will come up to the Lords Expectations, 
and answer his promises; To day, that is, whilest it is a day of Salvation, 
whilest the Lord is yet so wonderfully preserving of us, displaying his 
Banner over us, holding underneath the Everlasting Arms, and making 
us to taste so much of his loving kindness and tender mercies every way. 
Divine Expectations frustrated will issue dreadfully, when the Lord 
shall make us know his breach of promise, Numb. 14. 34. This we must 
know, that the Lords promises, and expectations of great things, have 
singled out New-England, and all sorts and ranks of men amongst us, 
above any Nation or people in the world; and this hath been and isa 
time and season of eminent trial to us. If I should say that the very 
world, or common ordinary Professors expect great things from us at 
this day, there is a great deal of weight in it; If I say that the faithful 
precious suffering Saints of God in all other places, that have heard of 
the Lords Providences towards us, do expect and promise great things 
from us, this is farre more; But to mention the Lords own Expectations, 
this is most of all, these are certainly most solemn and awfull. Every 
Expectation of God is most just and righteous. Are not my wayes equal? 
saith God, Ezek. 18. 29. Yes, most equal, blessed God; Bountiful and 
Rich hast thou been in all thy free Bestowings; equal and just art thou 
in all thy greatest Expectations. If we do but run over the foremen- 
tioned grounds of divine Expectation, it will be sufficient to commit 
the judgement of this case even to our selves, as Isa. 5. 3. 


Theory of State and Society 245. 


As for special Relation unto God; whom hath the Lord more signally 
exalted then his people in this Wilderness? The Name and Interest of 
God, and Covenant-relation to him, it hath been written upon us in 
Capital Letters from the beginning. God had his Creatures in this 
Wilderness before we came, and his Rational Creatures too, a multitude 
of them; but as to Sons and Children that are Covenant-born unto God, 
Are not we the first in such a Relation? in this respect we are surely the 
Lords first-born in this Wilderness. Of the poor Natives before we came 
we may say as Isa. 63. 19. They were not called by the Lords Name, he bear 
not Rule over them: But we have been from the beginning, and we are 
the Lords. ‘ 

As for Extraction and Descent, if we be considered as a Posterity, O what 
Parents and Predecessors may we the most of us look back unto, 
through whose Loins the Lord hath stretched forth the line of his 
Covenant, measuring of us out, and taking us in to be a peculiar 
Portion to himself? 

As for Restipulations, and Engagements back again to God; what 
awfull publick Transactions of this kinde have there been amongst us? 
Hath not the eye of the Lord beheld us laying Covenant-Engagements 
upon our selves? hath not his ear heard us solemnly Avouching him, and 
him alone, to be our God and Saviour? Hath not a great part of the 
world been a witness of these things, even of our explicite ownings of, 
and Covenantings with the Lord as our God, laying this as a founda- 
tion-stone in our Building; and of this we may say, It hath been a special 
Exasperation unto Adversaries and Ill-willers, that despised New- 
England hath laid claim to, and publickly avouched and challenged a 
special Interest in God above others. 

As for our Advantages and Priviledges in a Covenant-state, here time 
and strength would fail to reckon up what we have enjoyed of this 
kinde; if any people in the world have been lifted up to heaven as to 
Advantages and Priviledges, we are the people. Name what you will 
under this Head, and we have had it. We have had Moses and Aaron 
to lead us; we have had Teachings and Instructions, line upon line, and 
precept upon precept; we have had Ordinances and Gospel-dispensations 
the choicest of them; we have had Peace and Plenty; we have had 
Afflictions and Chastisements in measure; we have had the Hearts, 
and Prayers, and Blessing of the Lords people every where; we have 
had the Eye and Hand of God, watching and working every way for 
our good; our Adversaries have had their Rebukes, we have had our 
Encouragements, and a wall of fire round about us. What could have 
been done more for us then hath been done? ~ 


246 The Puritans 


And then in the last place, as to New-Englands first wayes; what glori- 
ous things might here be spoken, unto the praise of free-grace, and to 
justifie the Lords Expectations upon this ground? Surely God hath 
often spoke concerning His Churches here, as in Jer. 2. 2. J remember the 
kindness of thy youth, @c. O what were the open Professions of the Lords 
people that first entred this Wilderness? How did our fathers entertain 
the Gospel, and all the pure Institutions thereof, and those Liberties 
which they brought over? What was their Communion and Fellowship 
in the Administrations of the Kingdome of Jesus Christ? What was the 
pitch of their Brotherly love, of their Zeal for God and his Wayes, 
and against wayes destructive of Truth and Holiness? What was their 
Humility, their Mortification, their Exemplariness? How much of Holi- 
ness to the Lord was written upon all their wayes and transactions? 
God sifted a whole Nation that he might send choice Grain over into 
this Wilderness. 

y Thus it hath been with us as to grounds of Divine Expectation: 
( And therefore let us in the fear of God learn this great truth to day, 
\ and receive the instruction thereof sealed up unto all our souls; That 
4 the great God hath taken up great Expectations of us, and made great Promises 
| to himself concerning us, and this hath been, and 1s New-Englands day and 
\ season of Probation. 


WILLIAM HUBBARD, 1621-1704 


[William Hubbard, son of a husbandman of Tenring, Essex, came 
_ with his family to New England in 1635, and settled at Ipswich. He 
graduated in the first class at Harvard College, 1642, studied medicine 
and did not become a minister until 1656, when he was settled as the 
colleague of Thomas Cobbet at Ipswich. He was a ringleader along 
with John Wise in the protest against Andros’s taxation, 1687; he kept 
his head during the witchcraft panic. In 1677 he published a history 
of the Indian wars in New England, and wrote a general history of 
New England which was based chiefly on Winthrop’s manuscript 
Journal. He lived to be one of the oldest and most venerated ministers 
in the colony, but after his first wife died he shocked his parishioners by 
marrying his housekeeper in 1694. This text is from The Happiness of a 
People In the Wisdome of their Rulers Directing And in the Obedience of their 
Brethren Attending (Boston, 1676), a sermon preached on election day, 
May 3, of that year. Cf. Sibley, Biographical Sketches; Sprague, Annals; 
Samuel G. Drake, edition of A Narrative of the Troubles with the Indians 
(Roxbury, 1865).] 


Theory of State and Society 247 


THE HAPPINESS OF A PEOPLE 


tT was Order that gave Beauty to this goodly fabrick of the world, 
which before was but a confused Chaos, without form and void: 
Therefore when Job, when he would set out the terribleness of the 
grave and the dismal state of death, he calls it, the Land of darkness, 
and the shadow of death without any Order. Job ro. 22. For Order is 
as the soul of the Universe, the life and health of things natural, the 
beauty and strength of things Artificial. ... The better to understand 
this we may consider what Order is? The Schools tell us, it is, Parzum, 
impariumque; sua cuique; tribuens loca, opta disposito. Such a disposition of 
things in themselves equall and unequall, as gives to every one their due 
and proper place. It suited the wisdom of the infinite and omnipotent 
Creator, to make the world of differing parts, which necessarily sup- 
poses that there must be differing places, for those differing things to be 
disposed into, which is Order. The like is necessary to be observed in 
the rational and political World, where persons of differing endow- 
ments and qualifications need differing station to be disposed into, the 
keeping of which, is both the beauty and strength of such a society. 
Naturalists tell us that beauty in the body arises from an exact sym- 
metry or proportion of contrary humours, equally mixed one with 
another: so doth an orderly and artificial distribution of diverse ma- 
terials, make a comely Building, while homogeneous bodyes (as the 
depths of waters in the Sea, and heaps of sand on the Shore) run into 
confused heaps, as bodyes uncapable to maintain an order in them- 
selves. So that it appears, whoever is for a parity in any Society, will 
in the issue reduce things into an heap of confusion. ‘That God who 
assumes to him self the title of being the God of Glory, is the God of 
peace, or Order and not of confusion. 1 Cor. 14. 33 compar’d with ver. 
40. He is so in his Palace of the world, as well as in his temple of his 
Church: in both may be observed a sweet subordination of persons 
and things, each unto other . .. Look we into the third heavens the 
high and holy place, as a Royal Pavilion pitched by the Almighty for 
the recidence of his Glory, although it be furnished with Inhabitants 
suitable to the nature of that celestial throne, yet are they not all of one 
rank and order; there are Cherubims as well as Seraphims, Arch- 
Angels as well as Angels, Thrones and Dominions, as well as Princi- 
palityes and Powers. There are also, as in a middle rank, the Spirits of 
just men made perfect: though no unclean thing may enter in, yet 
have they not attained their perfection in Glory, but do yet expect an 
addition of Glory: but in the outward Court, as there are diversity of 


= 
‘ 


248 The Puritans 


gifts, so there are of places, and order: some that are to rule and go 


before, others that are to be subject, and to follow. If we shall but 


Sa 


descend and take notice of the firmament, the pavement of that glori- 
ous mansion place, although it be the roof of this lower world, may we 
not there see, one star differing from another in glory? There is placed 
the Sun, the lord and ruler of the day, as well as the Moon, that rules 
the night, together with the stars, as the common-people of that upper 
region, who yet doe immediately veyle their glory, and withdraw their 
light, when their bridegroom cometh forth of his chamber. In the 
firmament of the air, may we not see the lofty eagle in his flight far — 
surmounting the little choristers of the valleys? The like disproportion 
who observes not amongst those creatures that take their pastime in 
the deep waters, or that range upon the high mountains, hunting for 
their prey? And hath not the same Almighty Creator and disposer of 
all things made some of the sons of men as far differing in height of 
body one from the other, as Saul from the rest of the people... . And 
are not some advanced as high above others in dignity and power, as 
much as the cedars of Lebanon the low shrubs of the valley? It is not 
then the result of time or chance, that some are mounted on horse- 
back, while others are left to travell on foot. That some have with the 
Centurion power to command, while others are required to obey, the 
poor and the rich meet together, the Lord 1s the maker of them both, 'The Al- 
mighty hath appointed her that sits behind the mill, as well as him that 
ruleth on the throne. And herein hath he as well consulted the good of 
humane nature, as the glory of his own wisdome and power: Thoase of 


_ the superiour rank, but making a supply of what is wanting in the 


other: otherwise might not the foolish and ignorant be like to loose 
themselves in the Wilderness, if others were not as eyes to them [?] 
The fearful and the weak might be distroyed, if others more strong and 
valiant, did not protect and defend them. The poor and needy might 
starve with hunger and cold, were they not fed with the morsells, and 
warmed with the fleece of the wealthy. Is it not found by experience, 
that the greatest part of mankind, are but as tools and Instruments for 
others to work by, rather then any proper Agents to effect any thing of 
themselves: In peace how would most people destroy themselves by 
slothfulness and security? In war they would be destroyed by others, 
were it not for the wisdome and courage of the valliant. If the virtue 
and valour of the good did not interpose by their authority, to prevent 
and save, the vice of the bad would bring mischief enough upon places 
to ruine both, else why is it so frequently intimated in the latter end of 
the book of Judges, that in those dayes, when there was no king in 


Theory of State and Society 249 


Israel, but every man was left to do what seemed right in his own eyes, 
that these and those enormityes break forth, that violated all Lawes, 
and offered violence even unto nature itself? ... Thus if Order were 
taken away, soon would confusion follow, and every evill work, James 
3. 16. Nothing therefore can be imagined more remote either from 
right reason, or true religion, then to think that because we were all 
once equal at our birth, and shall be again at our death, therefore we 
should be so in the whole course of our lives. In fine, a body would not. 
be more monstrous and deformed without an Head, nor a ship more 
dangerous at Sea without a Pilot, nor a floack of sheep more ready to 
be devoured without a Shepheard, then would humane Society be 
without an Head, and Leader in time of danger... . 

In a curious piece of Architecture, that which first offers it self to 
the view of the beholder, is the beauty of the structure, the proportion 
that one piece bears to another, wherein the skill of the Architect most 
shews it self. But that which is most Admirable in sensitive and ra- 
tional beings, is that inward principle, seated in some one part, able to 
guid the whole, and influence all the rest of the parts, with an apt and 
regular motion, for their mutual good and safety. The wisdome of the 
Creatour was more seen in the breath of life, breathed into the Nostrils 
of Adam, whereby he became a living soul, then in the feature and 
beauty of the goodly frame of his body, formed out of the dust, as the 
Poet speaks, Os homini sublime dedit .. . The Architect of that curious 
piece hath placed the Head in the fore-front, and highest sphear, 
where are lodged all the senses, as in a Watch-Tower, ready to be im- 
proved upon all occasions, for the safety and preservation of the whole. 
There are placed those that look out at the windows, td foresee evil 
and danger approaching, accordingly to alarm all the other inferiour 
powers, to take the signal and stand upon their guard, for defence of the 
whole. There also is the seat of the Daughters of musick, ready to give 
audience to all reports and messages that come from abroad; if any 
thing should occurre or happen nearer home, or further off, imparting 
either fear of evil, or hope of good: Their work is immediately to dis- 
patch messages through the whole province of nature, to summon all 
the other Members together, to come in and yield the assistance to 
prevent the mischief feared, or prepare for the reception of the good 
promised, or pretended, as the nature of the case may require. Thus 
are all orders wont to be dispathched and issued from the Cinque ports 
of the senses in, and about the head, for the benefit and advantage of 
the whole body. Very fitly therefore in the body politick are the rulers 
by way of allusion called Heads, And in case of inability to discharge 


250 The Puritans 


those functions, such societies may not undeservedly be compared to 
the Palmists Idols, that have eyes but see not, and have ears but hear 
not. Suppose the hands be never so strong for action or the feet never 
so swift for motion, yet if there be not discretion in the head to dis- 
cerne, or judgement to determine what is meet to be done for the 
obviating of evil and danger, or procuring of good, it will be impossible 
to save such a body from ruine and destruction. If the Mast be never so 
well strengthened, and the Tackline never so well bound together, yet 
if there want a skilful Pilot to Steer and Guide, especially in a rough 
and tempestuous Sea, the lame will soon take the prey. 


SAMUEL WILLARD, 1640-1707 


[Samuel Willard, born in Concord, was the son of Major Simon 
Willard, a founder of the town; he graduated from Harvard College 
in the class of 1659, and preached for a time at Groton until the 
church and the town were scattered by an Indian attack in 1676. 
He was then called to the Old South Church in Boston, where he 
remained until his death, second in importance only to Increase Mather 
in Eastern Massachusetts. John Dunton said of him, ‘“‘He’s a Man of 
Profound Notions: Can say what he will, and prove what he says.” 
Though less dictatorial than Increase, his scholarship was probably 
broader and his mind more philosophical. He delivered a series of 
sermons over a long period of years expounding in systematic detail 
the outline of the orthodox theology; the sermons were published after 
his death in a tremendous folio volume. He was Vice-President of 
Harvard College from 1701 to 1707, which office was really the head- 
ship because their was no President. Cf. Samuel Eliot Morison, Harvard 
College in the Seventeenth Century; Sibley, Biographical Sketches; Sprague, 
Annals. This text is from The Character of a Good Ruler (Boston, 1694), 
an election sermon, preached on May 30. | 


THE CHARACTER OF A GOOD RULER 


HETHER the Ordination of Civil Government be an Article of the 

Law of Nature, and it should accordingly have been established 

upon the Multiplication of Mankind, although they had retained their 
Primitive Integrity: Or whether it have only a Positiwe right, and was 
introduced upon mans Afostacy; is a question about which all are not 
agreed. The equity of it, to be sure, is founded in the Law Natural, 
and is to be discovered by the light of Nature, being accordingly ac- 


Theory of State and Society 251 


knowledged by such as are strangers to Scripture Revelation; and by 
Christians it is reducible to the first Command in the Second Table 
of the Decalogue; which is supposed to be a transcript of the Law 
given to Adam at the first, and written upon the Tables of his Heart. 
For tho’, had man kept his first state, the Moral Image Concreated 
in him, consisting in, Knowledg, Righteousness, and True Holiness, would 
have maintained him in a perfect understanding of, and Spontaneous 
Obedience to the whole duty incumbent on him, without the need 
of civil Laws to direct him, or a civil Sword to lay compulsion on him; 
and it would have been the true Golden Age, which the Heathen 
Mythologists are to Fabulous about. yet even then did the All-Wise 
God Ordain Orders of Superiority and Inferiority.among men, and 
required an Honour to be paid accordingly. But since the unhappy 
Fall hath Robbed man of that perfection, and filled his heart with 
perverse and rebellious principles, tending to the Subversion of all 
Order and the reducing of the World to a Chaos; necessity requires, 
and the Political happiness of a People is concerned in the establish- 
ment of Civil Government. The want of it hath ever been pernicious, 
and attended on with miserable Circumstances. When there was no 
Governour in Israel, but every man did what he would, what horrible 
outrages, were then perpetrated, though Holy and Zealous Phinehas 
was at that time the High-Priest? and we ourselves have had a Speci- | 
men of this in the short Anarchy accompanying our late Revolution. 

Gods Wisdom therefore, and his goodness is to. be adored in that he 

hath laid in such a relief for the Children of men, against the mischief 

which would otherwise devour them; and engraven an inclination on 

their hearts, generally to comply with it. But this notwithstanding, 

mens sins may put a curse into their Blessings, & render their remedy 

to be not better, possibly worse than the Malady. Government is to 

prevent and cure the disorders that are apt to break forth among the 

Societies of men; and to promote the civil peace and prosperity of 

such a people, as well as to suppress impiety, and nourish Religion. 

For this end there are to be both Rulers, and such as are to be Ruled 

by them: and the Weal or Wo of a People mainly depends on the 
qualifications of those Rulers, by whom we are to be Governed. 


See siete iho 


DocTRINE 


It is of highest Consequence, that Civil Rulers should be Fust Men, and such 
as Rule in the Fear of God. . 
Civil Rulers are all such as are in the exercise of a rightful Authority , 
over others. These do not all of them stand in one equal Rank, nor 


252 The Puritans 


are alike influential into Government. There are Supream and Sub- 
ordinate Powers: and of these also there are some who have a Legis- 
lative, others an Executive Power in their Hands; which two, though 
they may sometimes meet in the same persons, yet are in themselves 
things of a different Nature. There are Superiour Magistrates in Provinces, 
and such as are of Council with them, and Assembly men, the Representa- 
tives of the People. There are Fudges in Courts, Superiour and Inferiour; 
Justices of the Peace in their several Precincts: and in each of these 
Orders there Resides a measure of Authority. 

Now, that all these may be Just, it is firstly required, that they have | 
a Principle of Moral Honesty in them, and Swaying of them: that they 
Love Righteousness, and Hate Iniquity: that they be Men of Truth, Exod. 
18. 21. for every man will act in his Relation, according to the Prin- 
ciple that Rules in him: so that an Unrighteous man will be an Un- 
righteous Ruler, so far as he hath an Opportunity. 

/ They must also be acquainted with the Rules of Righteousness; 
ane must know what is Just, and what is Unjust, be Able Men, Exod. 
18. 21. For, though men may know and not do, yet without Knowledge 
the Mind cannot be good. Ignorance is a Foundation for Error, and will 
likely produce it, when the man applies himself to act: and if he do 
right at any time, it is but by guess, which is a very poor Commendation. 

Again, he must be one that respects the Cause, and not the persons 
in all his Administrations, Deut. 1. 17. Ye shall not respect Persons in 
Judgment, &c. if his Affections Oversway his Judgment at any time, 
they will be a crooked Biais, that will turn him out of the way, and 
that shall be Justice in one mans case, which will not be so in another. 

Farthermore, he must be one whom neither Flattery nor Bribery 
may be able to remove out of his way, Deut. 16. 19. Thou shalt not 
wrest Judgment, thou shalt not Respect Persons, neither take a Gift; and 
hence he must be one who hates both Ambition and Covetousness, 
Exod. 18. 21 Hating Covetousness; which word signifies, a Greedy Desire, 
and is applicable to both the fore cited Vices: for if these Rule him, 
he will never be a just Ruler. 

Finally, he must be one who prefers the publick Benefit above all 
private and separate Interests whatsoever. Every man in his place, 
owes himself to the good of the whole; and if he doth not so devote 
himself, he is unjust: and he who either to advance himself, or to be 
Revenged on another, will push on Injurious Laws, or pervert the 
true Intention of such as are in Force, is an unjust man: and he who 
is under the influence of a Narrow Spirit, will be ready to do so, as oc- 
casion offers. 


Theory of State and Society 253 


Nor is this Justice to be lookt upon as separate from the Fear of God, 
put as influenced and maintained by it. He therefore that Ruleth in 
the Fear of God, is one who Acknowledgeth God to be his Soveraign, 
and carries in his heart an Awful Fear of him: who owns his Com- 
mission to be from him, and expects ere long to be called to give in 
an Account of his managing of it: which maketh him to study in all 
things to please him, and to be afraid of doing any thing that will 
provoke him. 

And accordingly, he is a Student in the Law of God, and Meditates 
in it Day and Night; making it the Rule into which he ultimately re- 
solves all that he doth in his place. We find that in the Old Law, 
the King was to write a Copy of it with his own hand, and to make 
use of it at all times: Deut. 17. 18, 19. 

If he hath any thing to do in the making of Laws, he will consult 
a good Conscience, and what may be pleasing to God, and will be 
far from framing mischief by a Law. And if he be to execute any Laws 
of men, he will not dare to give a judgment for such an one as directly 
Crosseth the Command of God, but counts it zpso facto void, and his 
Conscience acquitted of his Oath. 

Yea the Fear of God will make him not to think himself Lawless; 
nor dare to bear witness, by Laws and Penalties, against sins in others, 
which he countenanceth and encourageth by living in the Practise of 
himself: But to use utmost endeavours that his own life may be an 
exemplification of Obedience, and others may learn by Him, what a 
Veneration he hath for the Laws that are enacted for the good of 
Man-kind. 

In a word, he is one that will take care to promote Piety as well as” 
Honesty among men; and do his utmost that the true Religion may be 
countenanced and established, and that all Ungodliness, as well as 
Unrighteousness, may have a due Testimony born against it at all 
times. So he resolves Psal. 75. 10. all the horns of the wicked also will 
I cut off; but the horns of the righteous shall be exalted. 

It then follows that we enquire of what great moment or conse- 
quence it is that these should be such: and there is a three-fold respect 
in which the high importance of it is to be discovered by us. 


1. In respect to the Glory of God. 


Civil Rulers are Gods Vicegerents here upon earth; hence they are 
somtimes honoured with the title of Gods, Psal. 82 6. I have said ye 
are Gods. Government is Gods Ordinance; and those that are Vested 
with it, however mediately introduced into it, have their rightful 


254 | The Puritans 


authority from him, Prov. 8. 15, 16. By me Kings Reign, and Princes 
Decree Justice. By me Princes Rule, and Nobles, even all the Judges of the 
Earth, and they that are from him, should be for him, and ought 
to seek the Honour of him who is King of Kings, and Lord of Lords: 
which they only then do, when they manage their whole Interest and 
Power with a Design for his Glory; & accordingly manage themselves 
in all their Ministrations by the Statutes of his Kingdom; which none 
will ever do, but they that are Just, Ruling in the Fear of God. Righteous- 
ness and Religion flourishing in these, will bé as a Torch on an Hill, 
whose Light and Influence will be vastly extensive: every one will be 
advantaged to see their good works, and to Glorifie God for and in 
them. ‘Their very Example will have the force of a Law in it, and win 
many by a powerful Attraction, to the avoiding of sin, and practising 
of Righteousness. They will be a good Copy, that many will be am- 
bitious to write after: and their faithful Administrations will render 
them a Terror to Evil Doers, and an Encouragement to them that do well; 
which will advance the very end of Government. Whereas the Evil 
Deportment, and Ill Management of Rulers, who are unjust, and void 
of the Fear of God, is an open scandal, and of a more pernicious tend- 
ency than the wickedness of others; inasmuch as their Example is a 
discouragement to them that are well disposed, and animates those 
that are set in their hearts for iniquity, and they are thereby emboldned 
to shew their heads, and to declare their sin as Sodom: hence that Re- 
mark of the Psalmist, Psal. 12. 8. The wicked walk on every side, when 
the vilest men are exalted. ‘Those that would bear their Testimony against 
Impiety and Debauchery, are frowned on and neglected; and such as 
would Nourish them are Countenanced: and either good Laws to 
suppress them are not provided, or they are laid by as things Obsolete, 
and of no Service: and thus all Abominations come in upon a People 
as a Flood, and the Name of God is wofully dishonoured by this 
means: and hereupon the last and most excellent end of Government 
comes to be frustrated, and what is there that we can conceive to be 
of greater weight than this? if this be lost, the Glory of such a people 
is gone. 


2. In regard to the weal of the People over whom they Rule. 
A People are not made for Rulers, But Rulers for a People. It is 


{/indeed an Honour which God puts upon some above others, when 


he takes them from among the People, and sets them up to Rule 
over them, but it is for the Peoples sake, and the Civil felicity of them 
is the next end of Civil Policy; and the happiness of Rulers is bound 


Theory of State and Society Asis 


up with theirs in it. Nor can any wise men in authority think them- 
selves happy in the Misery of their Subjects, to whom they either are 
or should be as Children are to their Fathers: We have the Benefit 
of Government expressed, 1. Tim. 2:2. a quiet Life and a peaceable, in 
all Godliness and honesty. and it lies especialy with Rulers, under God, 
to make a People Happy or Miserable. When men can injoy their 
Liberties and Rights without molestation or oppression; when they 
can live without fear of being born down by their more Potent Neigh- 
bours; when they are secured against Violence, and may be Righted 
against them that offer them any injury, without fraud; and are en- 
couraged to serve God in their own way, with freedom, and without 
being imposed upon contrary to the Gospel precepts; now are they 
an happy People. But this is to be expected from none other but men 
just and Pious: they that are otherwise, will themselves be oppressours, 
and they that are influenced by them, and dependent on them, will 
adde to the grievance. They that should look after them Will Do it 
fast enough: Yea every one will usurp a License to do so to his Neigh- 
bour upon an advantage: and such a people must needs groan under 
an intollerable burden. Besides, it is a great Truth, that the Mercies 
and Judgments of God come upon a people, according as their Rulers 
carry themselves in managing of the Trust which God hath committed 
to them. Just and Zealous Rulers, are men that Stand in the Gap, and 
keep off Judgments from a sinning people; God sought for one such, 
Ezek. 22. 30. they turn away wrath, when it hath made an inroad, so 
it is recorded of Phinehas that he did, Ps. 106. 30. and God is wont 
to Bless such a People, as He did Israel and Judah in the days of David, 
Solomon, Jehoshaphat, Hezekiah, and Josiah: wheras when these fall into 
such sins as God is Provoked at, the People are like to Smart for it. 
There is such an Influence with the Prevarications of these men, that, 
in the righteous judgment of God, those under them suffer grievously 
by it. This the Heathen observed in the course of Providence, and 
made that remark upon it, Delirant reges, plectuntur Achivi. Thus David 
numbers the People, and Seventy Thousand of the men of Israel die 
for it, 25a. 24. Yea such may be the influence of the Male-adminis- 
tration of Rulers, though done without malice, and in an heat of mis- 
guided zeal for the People of Gop; as Sauls act in Slaying the Gibeonites 
is recorded to have been 2 Sam 21 2. that the Guilt may ly long upon 
a Land, and break out in Terrible Judgments a great while after, and — 
not be expiated till the sin be openly confessed, and the Atonement 
sought unto. 


256 The Puritans 


3. With Reference to Rulers themselves. It is, as we before Observed, 
a Dignity put upon them, to be preferred to Government over their 
Brethren; to have the oversight, not of Beasts, but of Men. But as 
there is a great Trust devolved on them, so there is an answerable 
Reckoning which they must be called unto: And however they are 
setled in Authority by men, yet Gop, who Rules over all, hath put 
them in only Durante Bene Plecito: they are upon their good Behaviour; 
they are Stewards, and whensoever Gop pleaseth, He will call for a 
Reckoning, and put them out. Gop sets up, and he pulls down; and he 
hath a respect to mens Carriages in his dealings with them. Godly 
and Zealous Phinehas got a Blessing for himself and his Posterity, 
Numb. 25. 11. &c. Whereas Saul procured for himself a Rejection, — 
and the laying aside and almost Extirpation of his Family. We have 
this also instanced in Shebna and Eliakim Isa. 22. 15. Gc. Yea, what 
did Jeroboam, what did Ahab, and many others procure for themselves, 
by their ill Government, but the utter rooting out of their Names, 
and Posterity? The Fourth Generation may Rue that ever they derived 
from such Progenitors. ‘The only sure way for Rulers to build up their 
own Houses, is to be such in their places as David was, of whom we 
have that Testimony, Psal. 78. 71, 72. He brought him to Feed Jacob 
his People, and Israel his Inheritance. So he Fed them according to the In- 
tegrity of his heart, and guided them by the Skilfulness of his hands. And 
although Gop doth not always peculiarly put a Brand in this World 
upon Impious and Unjust Rulers, yet there is a Tribunal before which 
they must stand e’re long as other men; only their Account will be 
so much the more Fearful, and Condemnation more Tremendous, by 
how much they have neglected to take their greater advantages to 
Glorify Gop, and abused their Power to His Dishonour, by which 
they had a fairer opportunity than other men. 


JOHN WISE, 1652-1725 


[ John Wise, the son of an indentured servant, graduated from Har- 
vard College in 1673, and began to preach to the people of the Che- 
bacco district, a corner of Ipswich township, in 1680; he was ordained 
minister of a formally incorporated church there in 1682. He was 
given ten acres of land, paid £60 a year, one third of it in money 
and the rest in grain, along with forty cords of wood and eight loads 
of marsh hay. Almost nothing can be discovered about his life except 
on the three or four occasions upon which he emerged to take up the 
cudgels for some cause or other. In 1687 he led the town of Ipswich 


Theory of State and Society 257 


in fiery protest against taxes levied by Governor Andros without the 
consent of any legislature, making a speech to the town meeting in 
which he said, ‘“‘We had a good God, and a good King, and should 
do well to stand to our Priviledges.’’ He was arrested, jailed, and fined 
by Andros. In 1690 he was chaplain of the disastrous expedition against 
Quebec; he wrote an account of the fiasco with a fine scorn for the 
amateur militia officers. He helped check the witchcraft panic, and 
in 1703 was a signer of a petition to clear the names of those that 
had been condemned. He supported inoculation in 1721, and in his 
last years agitated for paper money. On every occasion when we get 
a glimpse of him, Wise is a vigorous, hard-hitting, racy champion of 
popular causes and the agrarian point of vew. The Proposals against 
which he wrote his two most important tracts were first issued by an 
association of Boston and Cambridge ministers in 1705; he over- 


whelmed these proposals with abuse in The Churches Quarrel Espoused ~ 


in 1710, and argued the cause of the independency and autonomy 
of separate congregations more soberly and learnedly in the Vindication 
of the Government of New-England Churches, 1717. This text is from the 
first edition of the Vindication. Cf. Sibley, Biographical Sketches. | 


VINDICATION 


DEMONSTRATION II 
Cuap I. 


HE Divine Establishment in Providence of the fore-named Churches 
T in their Order is apparently the Royal assent of the supream 
Monarch of the Churches, to the grave Decisions of Reason in favour 
of Mans Natural state of Being, and Original Freedom. For if we should 
make a new Survey of the Constitution before named under the brightest 
Light of Nature, there is no greater Example of natural Wisdom in 
any settlement on Earth; for the present and future security of Humane 
Beings in all that is most Valuable and Grand, then in this. That 
it seems to me as though Wise and Provident Nature by the Dictates 
of Right Reason excited by the moving Suggestions of Humanity; and 
awed with the just demands of Natural Libertie, Equity, Equality, 
and Principles of Self-Preservation, Originally drew up the Scheme, 
and then obtained the Royal Approbation. And certainly it is agreeable 
that we attribute it to God whether we receive it nextly from Reason 
or Revelation, for that each is equally an Emanation of his Wisdom, 
Prov. 20. 27. The Spirit of Man is the Candle of the Lord, searching 


ne ar 


258 | The Puritans 


all the inward parts of the Belly. There be many larger Volumes in 
this dark Recess called the Belly to be read by that Candle God has 
Light up. And I am very well assured the fore named Constitution 
is a Transcript out of some of their Pages, Joh. 1. 4, 9. And the Life 
was the Light of Men, which Lighteth every Man which cometh into the World. 
This admirable Effect of Christs Creating Power in hanging out so 
many Lights to guide man through a dark World, is as Applicable 
to the Light of Reason, as to that of Revelation. For that the Light 
of Reason as a Law and Rule of Right, is an Effect of Christ’s Good- 
ness, care, and creating Power, as well as of Revelation; though Reve- 
lation is Natures Law in a fairer and brighter Edition. This is granted 
by the London Ministers,! P. 8. C. 3. “That, that which is evident by, 
and consonant to the true Light of Nature, or Natural Reason, is to 
be accounted, Jure Divino, in matters of Religion. But in the further 
and more distinct management of this Plea; I shall, 

1. Lay before the Reader several Principles [of ] Natural Knowledge. 

2. Apply or Improve them in Ecclesiastical affairs. 

3. Inferr from the Premises, a Demonstration that these Churches, 
if not properly Formed; yet are fairly Established in their present 
Order by the Law of Nature. 


Cuap II. 


1. I Shall disclose several Principles of Natural Knowledge; plainly 
discovering the Law of Nature; or the true sentiments of Natural 
Reason, with Respect to Mans Being and Government. And in this 
Essay I shall peculiarly confine the discourse to two heads, viz 

1. Of the Natural (in distinction to the Civil) and then, 

2. Of the Civil Being of Man. And I shall Principally take Baron 
Puffendorff 7 for my Chief Guide and Spokes-man. 

1. I shall consider Man in a state of Natural Being, as a Free- 
Born Subject under the Crown of Heaven, and owing Homage to 
none but God himself. It is certain Civil Government in General, is 
a very Admirable Result of Providence, and an Incomparable Benefit 


/ to Man-kind, yet must needs be acknowledged to be the Effect of 


Humane Free-Compacts and not of Divine Institution; it is the Produce 
of Mans Reason, of Humane and Rational Combinations, and not 
from any direct Orders of Infinite Wisdom, in any positive Law wherein 
is drawn up this or that Scheme of Civil Government. Government 
(says the Lord Warrington 3) is necessary—in that no Society of Men 
can subsist without it; and that Particular Form of Government is 
necessary which best suits the Temper and Inclination of a People. 


Theory of State and Society 259 


Nothing can be Gods Ordinance, but what he has particularly De- on 


clared to be such; there is no particular Form of Civil Government 
described in Gods Word, neither does Nature prompt it. The Govern- 
ment of the Jews was changed five Times. Government is not formed 
by Nature, as other Births or Productions; If it were, it would be the 
same in all Countries; because Nature keeps the same Method, in 
the same thing, in all Climates. If a Common Wealth be changed 
into a Monarchy, is it Nature that forms, and brings forth the Monarch? 
Or if a Royal Family be wholly Extinct (as in Noah’s Case, being 
not Heir Apparent from Descent from Adam) is it Nature that must 
go to work (with the King Bees, who themselves alone preserve the 
Royal Race in that Empire) to Breed a Monarch before the People 
can have a King, or a Government sent over them? And thus we 
must leave Kings to Resolve which is their best Title to their Crowns, 
whether Natural Right, or the Constitution of Government settled by 
Humane Compacts, under the Direction and Conduct of Reason. But 
to proceed under the head of a State of Natural Being, I shall more 
distinctly Explain the State of Humane Nature in its Original Capacity, 
as Man is placed on Earth by his Maker, and Cloathed with many 
Investitures, and Immunities which properly belong to Man separately 
considered. As, 

1. The Prime Immunity in Mans State, is that he is most properly 
the Subject of the Law of Nature. He is the Favourite Animal on 
Earth; in that this Part of Gods Image, viz. Reason is Congenate with 
his Nature, wherein by a Law Immutable, Instampt upon his Frame, 
God has provided a Rule for Men in all their Actions, obliging each 
one to the performance of that which is Right, not only as to Justice, 
but likewise as to all other Moral Vertues, the which is nothing but 
the Dictate of Right Reason founded in the Soul of Man. ... That 
which is to be drawn from Mans Reason, flowing from the true Cur- 
rent of that Faculty, when unperverted, may be said to be the Law 
of Nature; on which account, the Holy Scriptures declare it written 
on Mens hearts. For being indowed with a Soul, you may know from 
your self, how, and what you ought to act, Rom. 2. 14. These having 
not a Law, are a Law to themselves. So that the meaning is, when we 
acknowledge the Law of Nature to be the dictate of Right Reason, 
we must mean that the Understanding of Man is Endowed with such 
a power, as to be able, from the Comtemplation of humane Condi- 
tion to discover a necessity of Living agreeably with this Law: And 
likewise to find out some Principle, by which the Precepts of it, may 
be clearly and solidly Demonstrated. The way to discover the Law 


ee 
‘, 
* 


260 The Puritans 


of Nature in our own state, is by a narrow Watch, and accurate Con- 
templation of our Natural Condition, and propensions. Others say 
this is the way to find out the Law of Nature. scil. Ifa Man any ways 
doubts, whether what he is going to do to another Man be agreeable 
to the Law of Nature, then let him suppose himself to be in that other 
Mans Room; And by this Rule effectually Executed. A Man must be 
a very dull Scholar to Nature not to make Proficiency in the Knowl- 
edge of her Laws. But more Particularly in pursuing our Condition 
for the discovery of the Law of Nature, this is very obvious to view, 
v1z. 3 

1. A Principle of Self-Love, & Self-Preservation, is very predomi- 
nant in every Mans Being. 

2. A Sociable Disposition. 

3. An Affection or Love to Man-kind in General. And to give such 
Sentiments the force of a Law, we must suppose a God who takes 
care of all Mankind, and has thus obliged each one, as a Subject of 
higher Principles of Being, then meer Instincts. For that all Law 
properly considered, supposes a capable Subject, and a Superiour Power; 
And the Law of God which is Binding, is published by the Dictates 
of Right Reason as other ways: Therefore says Plutarch, To follow God 
and obey Reason is the same thing. But moreover that God has Established 
the Law of Nature, as the General Rule of Government, is further 
Illustrable from the many Sanctions in Providence, and from the Peace 
and Guilt of Conscience in them that either obey, or violate the Law 
of Nature. But moreover, the foundation of the Law of Nature with 
relation to Government, may be thus Discovered. sczl. Man is a Crea- 
ture extreamly desirous of his own Preservation; of himself he is plainly 
Exposed to many Wants, unable to secure his own safety, and Main- 
tenance without the Assistance of his fellows; and he is also able of 
returning Kindness by the furtherance of mutual Good; But yet Man 
is often found to be Malicious, Insolent, and easily Provoked, and as 
powerful in Effecting mischief, as he is ready in designing it. Now that 
such a Creature may be Preserved, it is necessary that he be Sociable; 
that is, that he be capable and disposed to unite himself to those of his - 
own species, and to Regulate himself towards them, that they may have 
no fair Reason to do him harm; but rather incline to promote his 
- Interests, and secure his Rights and Concerns. This then is a Funda- 
mental Law of Nature, that every Man as far as in him lies, do main- 
tain a Sociableness with others, agreeable with the main end and 
disposition of humane Nature in general. For this is very apparent, 
that Reason and Society render Man the most potent of all Creatures, 


Theory of State and Society 261 


And Finally, from the Principles of Sociableness it follows as a funda- 
mental Law of Nature, that Man is not so Wedded to his own Interest, 
but that he can make the Common good the mark of his Aim: And 
hence he becomes Capacitated to enter into a Civil State by the Law 
of Nature; for without this property in Nature, vz. Sociableness, 
which is for Cementing of parts, every Government would soon 
moulder and dissolve. 


2. The Second Great Immunity of Man is an Original Liberty“ 


Instampt upon his Rational Nature. He that intrudes upon this Liberty, 
Violates the Law of Nature. In this Discourse I shall wave the Con- 
sideration of Mans Moral Turpitude, but shall view him Physically 
as a Creature which God has made and furnished essentially with 
many Enobling Immunities, which render him the most August Animal 
in the World, and still, whatever has happened since his Creation, 
he remains at the upper-end of Nature, and as such is a Creature of 
a very Noble Character. For as to his Dominion, the whole frame 
of the Lower Part of the Universe is devoted to his use, and at his 
Command; and his Liberty under the Conduct of Right Reason, is 
equal with his trust. Which Liberty may be briefly Considered, In- 
ternally as to his Mind, and Externally as to his Person. 

1. The Internal Native Liberty of Mans Nature in general implies, a 
faculty of Doing or Omitting things according to the Direction of his 
Judgment. But in a more special meaning, this Liberty does not consist 
in a loose and ungovernable Freedom, or in an unbounded Licence of 
Acting. Such Licence is disagreeing with the condition and dignity of 
Man, and would make Man of a lower and meaner Constitution then 
Bruit Creatures; who in all their Liberties are kept under a better and 
more Rational Government, by their Instincts. Therefore as Plutarch 
says, Those Persons only who live in Obedience to Reason, are worthy to be ac- 
counted free: They alone live as they Will, who have Learnt what they ought to 
Will. So that the true Natural Liberty of Man, such as really and truely 
agrees to him, must be understood, as he is Guided and Restrained by 
the Tyes of Reason, and Laws of Nature; all the rest is Brutal, if not 
worse.° | 

2. Mans External Personal, Natural Liberty, Antecedent to all 
Humane parts, or Alliances must also be considered. And so every 
Man must be conceived to be perfectly in his own Power and disposal, 
and not to be controuled by the Authority of any other. And thus 
every Man, must be acknowledged equal to every Man, since all Sub- 
jection and all Command are equally banished on both sides; and con- 
sidering all Men thus at Liberty, every Man has a Prerogative to Judge 


f 


262 The Puritans 


for himself, vz. What shall be most for his Behoof, Happiness and Well- 
being. | 
_ /3. The Third Capital Immunity belonging to Mans Nature, is an 
léquality amongst Men; Which is not to be denyed by the Law of Na- 
ture, till Man has Resigned himself with all his Rights for the sake ofa 
Civil State; and then his Personal Liberty and Equality is to be cher- 
ished, and preserved to the highest degree, as will consist with all just 
distinctions amongst Men of Honour, and shall be agreeable with the 
publick Good. For Man has a high valuation of himself, and the passion 
seems to lay its first foundation (not in Pride, but) really in the high 
' and admirable Frame and Constitution of Humane Nature. The Word 
Man, says my Author, is thought to carry somewhat of Dignity in its 
sound; and we commonly make use of this as the most proper and 
prevailing Argument against a rude Insulter, viz. I am not a Beast or a 
Dog, but am a Man as well as your self. Since then Humane Nature agrees 
equally with all persons; and since no one can live a Sociable Life with 
another that does not own or Respect him as a Man; It follows as a 
Command of the Law of Nature, that every Man Esteem and treat 
another as one who is naturally his Equal, or who is a Man as well as he. 
There be many popular, or plausible Reasons that greatly , Illustrate 
this Equality, vez. that we all Derive our Being from one stock, the 
same Common Father of humane Race. On this Consideration Bethius 
checks the pride of the Insulting Nobility. ) 


Quid Genus et Proavos Strepitis? 
Sz Primordia Vestra, 
Auteremque Deum Spectas, 
Nullus Degener Extat 

Nist vitits Pejora fovens, 
Proprium Deserat Ortum. 


Fondly our first Descent we Boast; 
If whence at first our Breath we Drew, 
The common springs of Life we view, 
The Airy Notion soon is Lost. 


The Almighty made us equal all; 
But he that slavishly complyes 
To do the Drudgery of Vice, 

Denyes his high Original. 


And also that our Bodies are Composed of matter, frail, brittle, and 
lyable to be destroyed by thousand Accidents; we all owe our Existence 
to the same Method of propagation. ‘The Noblest Mortal in his Entrance 


Theory of State and Society 263 


on to the Stage of Life, is not distinguished by any pomp or of passage 
from the lowest of Mankind; and our Life hastens to the same General 
Mark: Death observes no Ceremony, but Knocks as loud at the Barriers 
of the Court, as at the Door of the Cottage. This Equality being ad- 
mitted, bears a very great force in maintaining Peace and Friendship 
amongst Men. For that he who would use the Assistance of others, in 
promoting his own Advantage, ought as freely to be at their service, 
when they want his help on the like Occasions. One Good turn Requires 
another, is the Common Proverb; for otherwise he must need esteem 
others unequal to himself, who constantly demands their Aid, and as 
constantly denies his own. And whoever is of this Insolent Temper, 
cannot but highly displease those about him, and soon give Occasion 
of the Breach of the Common Peace. It was a Manly Reproof which 


Charactacus gave the Romans. Num Si vos Omnibus &c. What! because you — 


desire to be Masters of all Men, does it follow therefore that all Men 
should desire to be your Slaves, for that it is a Command of Natures 
Law, that no Man that has not obtained a particular and special Right, 
shall arrogate to himself a Larger share then his fellows, but shall 
admit others to equal Priviledges with himself. So that the Principle of 
Equality in a Natural State, is peculiarly transgressed by Pride, which 
is when a Man without sufficient reason prefers himself to others. And 
though as Hensius, Paraphrases upon Arvstotle’s Politicks to this Purpose. 
viz. Nothing is more suitable to Nature, then that those who Excel in Under- 
standing and Prudence, should Rule and Controul those who are less happy in 
those Advantages, &c. Yet we must note, that there is room for an Answer, 
scul. That it would be the greatest absurdity to believe, that Nature 
actually Invests the Wise with a Sovereignity over the weak; or with a 
Right of forcing them against their Wills; for that no Sovereignty can be 
Established, unless some Humane Deed, or Covenant Precede: Nor 
does Natural fitness for Government make a Man presently Governour 
over another; for that as Ulpian says, by a Natural Right all Men are born 
free; and Nature having set all Men upon a Level and made them 
Equals, no Servitude or Subjection can be conceived without In- 
equality; and this cannot be made without Usurpation or Force in 
others, or Voluntary Compliance in those who Resign their freedom, 
and give away their degree of Natural Being And thus we come, 

2. To consider Man in a Civil State of Being; wherein we shall ob- 
serve the great difference betwen a Natural, and Political State; for in 
the Latter State many Great disproportions appear, or at least many 
obvious distinctions are soon made amongst Men; which Doctrine is 
to be laid open under a few heads. 


264 The Puritans 


/ 1. Every Man considered in a Natural State, must be allowed to be 

\ Free, and at his own dispose; yet to suit Mans Inclinations to Society; 
~£ And in a peculiar manner to gratify the necessity he is in of publick 
y Rule and Order, he is Impelled to enter into a Civil Community; 

L and Divests himself of his Natural Freedom, and puts himself under 
Government; which amongst other things Comprehends the Power 
of Life and Death over Him; together with Authority to Injoyn him 
some things to which he has an utter Aversation, and to prohibit him 
other things, for which he may have as strong an Inclination; so that 
he may be often under this Authority, obliged to Sacrifice his Private, | 
for the Publick Good. So that though Man is inclined to Society, yet he 
is driven to a Combination by great necessity. For that the true and 
leading Cause of forming Governments, and yielding up Natural 
Liberty, and throwing Mans Equality into a Common Pile to be new 
Cast by the Rules of fellowship; was really and truly to guard them- 
selves against the Injuries Men were lyable to Interchangeably; for 
none so Good to Man, as Man, and yet none a greater Enemy. So that, 
/ 2. The first Humane Subject and Original of Civil Power is the 
People. For as they have a Power every Man over himself in a Natural 
State, so upon a Combination they can and do bequeath this Power 
unto others; and settle it according as their united discretion shall 
Determine. For that this is very plain, that when the Subject of Sover- 
eign Power is quite Extinct, that Power returns to the People again. 
And when they are free, they may set up what species of Government 
they please; or if they rather incline to it, they may subside into a 
State of Natural Being, if it be plainly for the best. In the Eastern Coun- 
try of the Mogul, we have some resemblance of the Case; for upon the 
Death of an absolute Monarch, they live so many days without a Civil 
Head; but in that Jnterregnum, those who survive the Vacancy, are glad 
to get into a Civil State again; and usually they are in a very Bloody 
Condition when they return under the Covert of a new Monarch; this 
project is to indear the People to a Tyranny, from the Experience they 
have so lately had of an Anarchy. 

3. The formal Reason of Government is the Will of a Community, 
yielded up and surrendred to some other Subject, either of one particu- 
lar Person, or more, Conveyed in the following manner. 

Let us conceive in our Mind a multitude of Men, all Naturally Free 
& Equal; going about voluntarily, to Erect themselves into a new 
Common-Wealth. Now their Condition being such, to bring themselves 
into a Politick Body, they must needs Enter into divers Covenants. 

1. They must Interchangeably each Man Covenant to joyn in one 


Theory of State and Society 265 


lasting Society, that they may be capable to concert the measures of 
their safety, by a Publick Vote. 

2. A Vote or Decree must then nextly pass to set up some Particular 
species of Government over them. And if they are joyned in their first 
Compact upon absolute Terms to stand to the Decision of the first 
Vote concerning the Species of Government: Then all are bound by 
the Majority to acquiesce in that particular Form thereby settled, 
though their own private Opinion, incline them to some other Model. 

3. After a Decree has specified the Particular form of Government, 
then there will be need of a New Covenant, whereby those on whom 
Sovereignty is conferred, engage to take care of the Common Peace, 
and Welfare. And the Subjects on the other hand, to yield them faithful 
Obedience. In which Covenant is Included that Submission and Union 
of Wills, by which a State may be conceived to be but one Person. So ao 
that the most proper Definition of a Civil State, is this. wiz. A Civil i“ 
State is a Compound Moral Person. whose Will (United by those 
Covenants before passed) is the Will of all; to the end it may Use, and 
Apply the strength and riches of Private Persons towards maintaining 
the Common Peace, Security, and Well-being of all. Which may be 
conceived as tho’ the whole State was now become but one Man; in 
which the aforesaid Covenants may be supposed under Gods Provi- 
dence, to be the Divine Fiat, Pronounced by God, let us make Man. 
And by way of resemblance the aforesaid Being may be thus Anato- 
mized. 

1. The Sovereign Power is the Soul infused, giving Life and Motion 
to the whole Body. 

2. Subordinate Officers are the Joynts by which the Body moves. 

3. Wealth and Riches are the Strength. 

4. Equity and Laws are the Reason. 

5. Councellors the Memory. 

6. Salus Populi, or the Happiness of the People, is the End of its 
Being; or main Business to be attended and done. 

7. Concord amongst the Members, and all Estates, is the Health. 

8. Sedition is Sickness, and Civil War Death. 

4. The Parts of Sovereignty may be considered: So, 

1. As it Prescribes the Rule of Action: It is rightly termed Legislative 
Power. : 

2. As it determines the Controversies of Subjects by the Standard of 
those Rules. So is it justly Termed Judiciary Power. 

3. As it Arms the Subjects against Foreigners, or forbids Hostility, so 
its called the Power of Peace and War. 


266 The Puritans 


4. Asit takes in Ministers for the discharge of Business, so it is called 
the Right of Appointing Magistrates. So that all great Officers and 
Publick Servants, must needs owe their Original to the Creating Power 
of Sovereignty. So that those whose Right it is to Create, may Dissolve 
the being of those who are Created, unless they cast them into an Im- 
mortal Frame. And yet must needs be dissoluble if they justly forfeit 
their being to their Creators. 

5. The Chief End of Civil Communities, is, that Men thus con- 
joyned, may be secured against the Injuries, they are lyable to from 
their own Kind. For if every Man could secure himself singly; It would ° 
be great folly for him, to Renounce his Natural Liberty, in which 
every Man is his own King and Protector. 

6. The Sovereign Authority besides that it inheres in every State as 
in a Common and General Subject. So farther according as it resides 
in some One Person, or in a Council (consisting of some Select Persons, 
or of all the Members of a Community) as in a proper and particular 
Subject, so it produceth different Forms of Common-wealths, viz. Such 
as are either simple and regular, or mixt. 

1. The Forms of a Regular State are three only, which Forms arise 
from the proper and particular Subject, in which the Supream Power 
Resides. As, 

1. A Democracy, which is when the Sovereign Power is Lodged in a 
Council consisting of all the Members, and where every Member has 
the Priviledge of a Vote. This Form of Government, appears in thei” 
greatest part of the World to have been the most Ancient. For that 
Reason seems to shew it to be most probable, that when Men (being 
Originally in a condition of Natural Freedom and Equality) had 
thoughts of joyning in a Civil Body, would without question be in- 
clined to Administer their common Affairs, by their common Judg- 
ment, and so must necessarily to gratifie that Inclination establish a 
Democracy; neither can it be rationally imagined, that Fathers of 
Families being yet Free and Independent, should in a moment, or 
little time take off their long delight in governing their own Affairs, & 
Devolve all upon some single Sovereign Commander; for that it seems 
to have been thought more Equitable, that what belonged to all, should 
be managed by all, when all had entered by Compact into one Com- 
munity. The Original of our Government, says Plato, (speaking of the 
Athenian Commonwealth) was taken from the Equality of our Race. Other 
States there are composed of different Blood, and of unequal Lines, the Con- 
sequence of which are disproportionable Soveraignty, Tyrannical or Oligarchycal 
Sway; under which men live in such a manner, as to Esteem themselves partly 


Theory of State and Society | 267 


Lords, and partly Slaves to each other. But we and our Country-men, being all — 
Born Brethren of the same Mother, do not look upon our selves, to stand under so 
hard a Relation, as that of Lords and Slaves; but the Parity of our Descent 
incline us to keep up the like Parity by our Laws, and to yield the precedency to 
nothing but to Superiour Vertue and Wisdom. And moreover it seems very 
manifest that most Civil Communities arose at first from the Union of 
Families, that were nearly allyed in Race and Blood. And though 
Ancient Story make frequent mention of Kings, yet it appears that 
most of them were such that had an Influence rather in perswading, 
then in any Power of Commanding. So Justin discribes that Kind of 
Government, as the most Primitive, which Aristotle stiles an Heroical 
Kingdom. viz. Such as is no ways Inconsistent with a Democratical 
State. De Princip. Reru. 1. L. 1. C. 

A democracy is then Erected, when a Number of Free Persons, do 
Assemble together, in Order to enter into a Covenant for Uniting 
themselves in a Body: And such a Preparative Assembly hath some 
appearance already of a Democracy; it is a Democracy in Embrio 
properly in this Respect, that every Man hath the Priviledge freely to 
deliver his Opinion concerning the Common Affairs. Yet he who 
dissents from the Vote of the Majority, is not in the least obliged by 
what they determine, till by a second Covenant, a Popular Form be 
actually Established; for not before then can we call it a Democratical 
Government, viz. Till the Right of Determining all matters relating to 
the publick Safety, is actually placed in a General Assembly of the 
whole People; or by their own Compact and Mutual Agreement, De- 
termine themselves the proper Subject for the Exercise of Sovereign 
Power. And to compleat this State, and render it capable to Exert its 
Power to answer the End of a Civil State: These Conditions are 
necessary. 

1. That a certain Time and Place be Assigned for Assembling. 

2. That when the Assembly be Orderly met, as to Time and Place, 
that then the Vote of the Majority must pass for the Vote of the 
whole Body. | 

3. That Magistrates be appointed to Exercise the Authority of the 
whole for the better dispatch of Business, of every days Occurrence; 
who also may with more Mature diligence, search into more Important 
Affairs; and if in case any thing happens of greater Consequence, may 
report it to the Assembly; and be peculiarly Serviceable in putting all 
Publick Decrees into Execution. Because a large Body of People is 
almost useless in Respect of the last Service, and of many others, as to 
the more Particular Application and Exercise of Power. Therefore 


268 The Puritans 


it is most agreeable with the Law of Nature, that they Institute their 
Officers to act in their Name, and Stead . 

2. The Second Species of Regular Government, is an Aristocracy; 
and this is said then to be Constituted when the People, or Assembly 
United by a first Covenant, and having thereby cast themselves into the 
first Rudiments of a State; do then by Common Decree, Devolve the 
Sovereign Power, on a Council consisting of some Select Members; and 
these having accepted of the Designation, are then properly invested 
with Sovereign Command; and then an Aristocracy is formed. 

3. The Third Species of a Regular Government, is a Monarchy — 
which is settled when the Sovereign Power is confered on some one 
worthy Person. It differs from the former, because a Monarch who is but 
one Person in Natural, as well as in Moral account, & so is furnished with 
an Immediate Power of Exercising Sovereign Command in all Instances 
of Government; but the fore named must needs have Particular Time 
and Place assigned; but the Power and Authority is Equal in each... . 

An Aristocracy is a dangerous Constitution in the Church of Christ, 

j/ 2s it possesses the Presbytery of all Church Power: What has been ob- 
served sufficiently Evinces it. And not only so but from the Nature of 
the Constitution, for it has no more Barrier to it, against the Ambition, 
Insults, and Arbitrary measures of Men, then an absolute Monarchy. 
But to abbreviate; it seems most agreeable with the Light of Nature, 
that if there be any of the Regular Government settled in the Church 
of God it must needs be. 

3. A Democracy. This is a form of Government, which the Light of 
Nature does highly value, & often directs to as most agreeable to the 
Just and Natural Prerogatives of Humane Beings. This was of great 
account, in the early times of the World. And not only so, but upon the 
Experience of several Thousand years, after the World had been 
tumbled, and tost from one Species of Government to another, at a 
great Expence of Blood and Treasure, many of the wise Nations of 
the World have sheltered themselves under it again; or at least have 
blendished, and balanced their Governments with it. 

It is certainly a great Truth, scil. That Mans Original Liberty after 
it is Resigned, (yet under due Restrictions) ought to be Cherished in’ 
all wise Governments; or otherwise a man in making himself a Subject, 
he alters himself from a Freeman, into a Slave, which to do is Re- 
pugnant to the Law of Nature. Also the Natural Equality of Men 
amongst Men must be duly favoured; in that Government was never 
Established by God or Nature, to give one Man a Prerogative to insult 
over another; therefore in a Civil, as well as in a Natural State of Being, 


Theory of State and Society 269 


a just Equality is to be indulged so far as that every Man is bound to 
Honour every Man, which is agreeable both with Nature and Religion, 
1 Pet. 2. 17. Honour all Men.—The End of all good Government: is to 
Cultivate Humanity, and Promote the happiness of all, and the good 
of every Man in all his Rights, his Life, Liberty, Estate, Honour, @c. 
without injury or abuse done to any. Then certainly it cannot easily 
be thought, that a company of Men, that shall enter into a voluntary 
Compact, to hold all Power in their own hands, thereby to use and im- 
prove their united force, wisdom, riches and strength for the Common 
and Particular good of every Member, as is the Nature of a Democracy; 
I say it cannot be that this sort of Constitution, will so readily furnish 
those in Government with an appetite, or disposition to prey upon 
each other, or imbezle the common Stock; as some Particular Persons 
may be apt to do when set off, and Intrusted with the same Power. 
And moreover this appears very Natural, that when the aforesaid 
Government or Power, settled in all, when they have Elected certain 
capable Persons to Minister in their affairs, and the said Ministers 
remain accountable to the Assembly; these Officers must needs be 
under the influence of many wise cautions from their own thoughts 
(as well as under confinement by their Commission) in their whole 
Administration: And from thence it must needs follow that they will 
be more apt, and inclined to steer Right for the main Point, viz. The 
peculiar good, and benefit of the whole, and every particular Member 
fairly and sincerely. And why may not these stand for very Rational 
Pleas in Church Order? 

For certainly if Christ has settled any form of Power in his Church 
he has done it for his Churches safety, and for the Benefit of every 
Member: Then he must needs be presumed to have made choice of that 
Government as should least Expose his People to Hazard, either from 
the fraud, or Arbitrary measures of particular Men. And it is as plain 
as day light, there is no Species of Government like a Democracy to 
attain this End. There is but about two steps from an Aristocracy, to a 
Monarchy, and from thence but one to a Tyranny; an able standing 
force, and an Ill-Nature, [pso facto, turns an absolute Monarch into a 
Tyrant; this is obvious among the Roman Cesars, and through the 
World. And all these direful Transmutations are easier in Church 
affairs (from the different Qualities of things) then in Civil States. 
For what is it that cunning and learned Men can’t make the World 
swallow as an Article of their Creed, if they are once invested with an 
Uncontroulable Power, and are to be the standing Oratours to Man- 
kind in matters of Faith and Obedience? 


270 The Puritans 


JOHN BARNARD, 1681-1770 


[John Barnard was born in Boston, the son of a housewright and 
selectman, educated at the Latin school under Ezekiel Cheever, and 
graduated from Harvard College in 1700. While an undergraduate he 
was much stimulated by the poetry of Cowley. He joined the North 
Church, assisted in the preparation of a pamphlet in defense of In- 
crease and Cotton Mather against the accusations of Robert Calef, 
and took his M.A. in 1703. Though for a time regarded as a “tool of the 
Mathers,”’ he nevertheless won the esteem and friendship of Benjamin 
Colman. He served as chaplain in the melancholy expedition against 
Port Royal in 1707; he indulged in a game of cards during this enterprise, 
was censured by the Mathers, and though he made public acknowledg- 
ment of his fault, turned his affections to the more liberal wing of the 
clergy. He went to London, 1709-1710; when he returned he was op- 
posed by the Mathers, but in spite of them was finally settled over a 
church at Marblehead in 1716. His influence in the town was large; at 
the time of /his settlement Marblehead was a straggling fishing village; 
he guided not only the spiritual but the material career of his congrega- 
tion and was instrumental in transforming the town into a thriving sea- 
port in the course of his long ministry. He was influential in getting his 
friend Holyoke chosen President of Harvard College in 1737. A tall, 
energetic figure, he was a scholar, linguist, mathematician, an expert 
on ships and shipbuilding, an amateur musician, an upholder of in- 
oculation; he was active in reassembling a library for the college after 
the fire of 1764. All told, he was one of the finest examples of the 
eighteenth-century New England parson. His autobiography is printed 
in Collections of the Massachusetts Historical Society, Series 3, V, 177-243. 
This text is from The Throne Established by Righteousness (Boston, 1734), 
an election sermon. Cf. Sibley, Bzographical Sketches. | 


THE THRONE ESTABLISHED BY RIGHTEOUSNESS 


1. The first Thing I would observe here is, the Original of Govern- 
ment, and whence it takes its Rise. And I-doubt not to say, That it is 
from God, who is the God of Order and not of Confusion: ‘That is to say, 
that, upon Supposition that Mankind dwell together in Societies, 
which the humane Nature cannot well avoid, it is not a matter of 
Liberty and Freedom, and left to the Option and Choice of the Will 
of Man, whether there shall be Government, or no, or whether there 
shall be any Rules for the regulating of that Society; but it has the 


Theory of State and Society 271 


stamp of the Divine Authority upon it, and comes to us with a thus 
saith the Lord. 

This the Voice of Nature plainly declares to us. Forasmuch as the 
Divine Sovereignty, and unerring Wisdom, has formed, and fitted, the 
humane Nature for Rule and Government, and necessitated it to it, 
this may be justly looked upon as the Voice of God to Mankind; 
because the Almighty’s adapting his Creatures to a particular End, 
is one way of making known His Mind and Will concerning them; and 
every true dictate of right Reason, is no other than God speaking to 
his rational Creatures, by the inward Sentiments of their own Mind. 
Thus ’tis that they, who are destitute of the written Law, are a Law unto 
themselves, as the Apostle expresses it, The Law or Will of God being 
written upon their Hearts, and legible, in some measure, by the Candle 
of the Lord, which he hath lighted up within them. 

"Tis very evident, the Nature of Man is formed for Government, 
and necessitated to it, from that Power of Reason and Understanding 
that is in him, his fixed Bent to Society, and the many Weaknesses and 
Imperfections that attend him. 

Thro’ the distinguishing Favour of the Almighty, He has, by His 
Inspiration, given us Understanding, & made us wiser than the Beasts 
of the Field, or the Fowls of the Air; and thus He hath formed us 
capable of acting by Rule, which sufficiently intimates His Will to us, 
that we are not left to live and range at Large, but that we keep our- 
selves within due Bounds, and walk by Rule; and this necessarily 
supposes some certain Rule for us to regulate ourselves by. 

And because Society is the natural result of Reason, in a dependent 
Being, and he must have all in himself, and be Master of an unbounded 
Understanding, and unlimited Power, or be void of all true Reason 
and Knowledge, that can subsist by himself without having any Re- 
gards to an other; therefore it is necessary, that this rational Agent, 
who yet falls short of Perfection, should be under Subjection, not only 
to such Laws as more especially relate to his Conduct to his Maker, but 
such also as have a more particular Referrence to his Fellow Creature, 
to whom he stands related, on whom he has some dependance for the 
necessaries, and conveniencies, of the present Life, and all adapted to 
the nature of that Society of which he is a part; and this clearly infers 
the Superiority of Some to give Law, for the well ordering of the Society, 
and the subjection of all to those Laws, according as they have a special 
referrence to them: And what is this but Government? 

Thus I doubt not but Government would have been necessary to 
Man, even in a state of Innocency; because Society would then 


272 The Puritans 


have been as agreable to his rational Nature, and more delightful to 
his pure Mind, and as necessary to him upon many Accounts, as now; 
and, in the midst of all his Purity, he would still have remained but a 
fallible Creature; all of which would have required a Rule suited to 
direct his Actions, in the several Relations he would sustain, and 
Businesses he would have been employed in: and this infers Govern- 
ment; tho’, probably, very different, in its kind, from what is to be 
found in the World, in our Day. In short, the Fifth Commandment, as 
well as others, of the moral Law, would have been in force, and 
obligatory upon the innocent Creature... . 

However, since Sin has broke in upon the World, and vitiated 
the humane Nature, there is but so much the more Reason and 
Necessity for Government among Creatures that are become so very 
weak, and depraved; to restrain their unruly Lusts, and keep, within 
due Bounds, the rampant Passions of Men, which else would soon 
throw humane Society into the last Disorder and Confusion. For if 
all Men were left to live, and act, as they please, ’tis undoubted, the 
different Views and Interests, Humours and Passions of Mankind, and 
these often excited by false Principles, and strongly moved by a corrupt 
Bias upon the Mind, would unavoidably produce a continual Jarr and 
Strife, a constant Endeavour in every one to promote his own, and 
gratify Self, and so a perpetual Preying of the Stronger upon the 
Weaker; and no Man would be able to call any thing his own, nor be 
secure of his Life and Limbs, from the Rapine, and Violence, of his 
Fellow Creature; and by how much the Views, Interest, and Passions 
of Men, are more numerous, appropriated, and strong, by so much 
would they become fiercer upon one another than the Beasts of Prey. 
And does not this necessitate Laws to tame this fierce Creature, to 
bound his Appetites, & bridle his Passions, that he may not be in- 
jurious to his Neighbour! Who is the Man, that would be willing that 
all the Injury of ungoverned Lust and Passion should fall upon him- 
self? And what is the Result of all this? but that there be a legislative 
Power, to enact such Laws, and an executive one, to put the Laws in 
Force, and compel to Obedience to them, lodged somewhere, as shall 
be best adapted to the Order, and Preservation of the Society. And this 
is Government. Thus the light of Nature shews us the Reason, and 
Necessity, of Government; and this Voice of Nature is the Voice of 
God. Thus ’tis that vox populi est vox Dei... . 

So that we see, the Original of Government is from God, who has 
taught it, to Mankind, by the Light of natural Reason, + and plainly 

+ Hence is that of Hesiod, Ex 5é dtos BaoiAjes: and thus Homer, 7’ un 8'é Stes Ese. . 


Theory of State and Society rai 


required it, in His holy Word. And that there are any, who walk in 
the Shape of Men, that do not diligently attend to the voice of Reason, 
nor enquire after Understanding, but sit down contented in the most 
abject Stupidity, scarce distinguishing themselves from the Brute, by 
any true Acts of Reason, is no more an Objection to Government’s 
being a true Dictate of Nature, than one Man’s shutting his Eyes 
would be, against the Sun’s being risen, when all, who have their 
Eyes open, walk in the full Light of it. 

2. The second thing I proposed to offer something upon, under 
the Head of Government, was, the Form of it. And here the Enquiry 
is, What Form of Government is chiefly to be regarded by a People? 
Since Government originates from God, and is of Divine appointment, 
is there any particular Form of Divine Ordination? Or if not, what 
Form shall a People put themselves under as most eligible? 

To the First of these Enquiries, I think there is no great difficulty 
in Answering, That I know of no particular Form of Civil Govern- 
ment, that God Himself has, directly, and immediately, appointed, 
by any clear Revelation of His Mind and Will, to any People what- 
ever. The Scripture speaks of Civil Rulers under the several Denomi- 
nations that were in use, at that Day; but it no where directs to, and 
enjoyns, any one Scheme of Civil Government, even upon God’s own 
peculiar favorite People; but we find, when they became a settled 
Nation, in the Land which God had promised to their Fathers, it 
was the People’s own Choice to come under a Monarchical Form of 
Government, and they said, Nay, but we will have a King over us; that 
we also may be Itke all the Nations, and that our King may Fudge us, and go 
out before us, and fight our Battles. And tho’ there was some manifesta- 
tion of the Divine Displeasure against them, for their asking a King, 
yet this was not for their assuming that particular Form of Civil 
Government, but for their throwing off the Theocracy, they and their 
Fathers, had so long experienced the Benefit of. 

So that it is evident God Almighty has left it to the natural Reason 
of Mankind, in every Nation and Country, to set up that Form, which, 
upon a thorow Consideration of the Nature, Temper, Inclinations, 
Customs, Manners, Business, and other Circumstances of a People, 
may be thought best for them. And hence it is that some Nations have 
tho’t it best for them to keep the Power of Government in the Hands 
of the Body of the People; while others have thought fit to lodge it 
in the Hands of their chief Families and Nobles; others again have 
devolved the Weight of the Government upon a single Person, leaving 
it wholly with Him to assign what Part, to what Persons, he pleases; 


274 The Puritans 


and another People have looked upon it most adviseable, for them. 
to take a middle way between these Extreams, and have laid up 
the Honours of Government, in a single Person, as their Supream 
Head, to flow from him down to all the Members; and then have 
divided the Weight and Burden of it, between this single Person, 
a Body of Nobles of his creating, and a Select Assembly of their own 
choosing; by which Means, Sovereignty is so happily tempered with 
Righteousness and Mercy, and Will and Pleasure directed and limited 
by Liberty and Property, as to guard against Tyranny on the one Hand, 
and Anarchy on the other. Tho’ neither of these Schemes, nor any | 
other that may be tho’t of, are immediately and directly of Divine 
Appointment, yet so far as any, or all of them, are the Result of right 
Reason so far it may be said of them, that they are of God. Thus, 
the Powers that be, be they what they will, meaning Government, are 
ordained of God. And as every People are left to their Liberty to con- 
stitute what Form of Civil Government, all things considered, may 
appear best to them, as to any thing to the contrary from the Law 
of God, so, doubtless, it remains with any civil Society to alter, and 
change, the Form of their Government, when they see just Reason 
for it, and all Parties are consenting to it. 

But if there be no particular Form of Civil Government appointed 
by God, and every Nation and People are left to their own Prudence 
to establish what Form they please, which Form and Scheme is best? 
If this Enquiry means, What Form is best, considered absolutely, and 
by it self? I answer, That Form which is best accommodated to all 
the Ends of Government. What That is, may be tho’t an hard Ques- 
tion, and it is not my Business to determine it. Tho’ I would observe, 
that, possibly, it may be a just Answer to the Enquiry, to say, that 
it is an improper Question; because there can be no Government 
without a People, or Subject of it; and the good, or ill, Qualities of it, 
can fall under no Consideration, but as Government stands related 
to its Subject; so that the Circumstances of a particular People must 
come into Consideration, to determine what is best. If the Question 
mean, what Form is relatively best? I answer, That which will suit 
the People best: which requires a thorow Knowledge of them, their 
Scituation, Produce, Genius, and the like, to resolve. If still it be in- 
sisted on, what Form is best for our selves? To this I answer, were 
we absolutely free to choose for ourselves, it must be left to the wisest 
Heads, the greatest Politicians among us, and those best acquainted 
with the People, and Country, to advise upon it: but as we are not 
at Liberty now to choose, I can readily Answer, that Form of Civil 


Theory of State and Society 275 


Government is best for us, which we are under; I mean the British 
Constitution. And this I can say, not only because we are a dependant 
Government, but because were I at full Liberty, I should choose to 
be (as, blessed be God, we are,) of the Number of the happy Subjects 
of Great Britain, whom God hath blessed above all People upon the 
Face of the Earth, in the Felicity of their Constitution: and I look 
upon my self happy, that I know not of a single true New England 
Man, in the whole Province, but what readily subscribes to these 
Sentiments, and hopes we shall continue, to be the genuine Members 
of that glorious Constitution, thro’out all Ages... . 

4. I am now to consider what are the great Ends of Government. 
And here I must observe, that the ultimate and supreme Ends of 
Government, are the same with the last End of all Creatures, and all 
their Actions; that God in all things may be glorified: but then the sub- 
ordinate End, and that which is the main, as it respects Man, is the 
common Good of the Society, State or Kingdom. 

It is beneath the Dignity of a rational Agent to act for no End; and 
it is contrary to Reason, and Religion, to propound any but a good one; 
and the Good aimed at cannot be appropriated to this or that Set or 
Party, of Men, in the State, without having a suitable Regard to others; 
but must necessarily extend to the whole Body, otherwise it would soon 
be subversive of it self. For let us consider the Ends of Government as 
having Respect either to the Ruler, or Ruled, seperately taken. 

If, on the one Hand, we could suppose the Good, Benefit, and Ad- 
vantage of the Throne, or Ruler, were the sole Ends of Government, 
this would introduce Tyranny, Oppression, Injustice, and, by De- 
grees, prove the Overthrow of the State. For while civil Rulers either 
thro’ mistake of their End, or want of Rectitude to act up to it, ap- 
propriate all unto themselves, and seek only their own Grandure, the 
making of their Families, and the gratifying of their own Appetites, 
and Passions; while their constant Cry is, give, give, and they cannot 
content themselves without their Subjects Vineyard, and snatch his 
Ewe Lamb from his Bosome, and exert their Authority to suppress 
all that they think stands in their way; whether by placing them in 
the Front of the Battle, to fall by a foreign Hand, or proceeding against 
them with an apparent solemn Form, but real Prostitution, of Justice, 
or dispatching them with a Bow-string; it is evident that they will 
be no better than roaring Lyons, and ranging Bears, which gradually 
devour up their Subjects, and their Substance, till there is no more 
to give, or none to give it: or else, the continual Oppressions, which 
make wise Men mad, will produce such Ferments, and Tumults among 


276 The Puritans 


the People, as in Time, to shake off the Yoke, and free themselves 
from the Tyrant.... 

One would be ready to think it hardly possible for any, who are 
not destitute of the Understanding of Men, and lost to ali true Rever- 
ence to the Deity, to entertain such a monstrous Conception, That 
God Almighty, the wisest, and the best of Beings, should make whole 
Nations of Men, and bring them together in Societies, for no other End, 
but the promoting the Honour, the increasing the Riches, and nour- 
ishing the Lusts of any single Person, or any particular Sett of Men. 

On the other Hand, if the Good of the Subject, considered as dis- — 
tinct from that of the Ruler, were the End of Government, what 
would the Consequence of this be, but Anarchy, wild Disorder, and 
universal Confusion? Which would be as destructive to Government 
as the hottest Tyranny could be. For the civil Rulers of a People 
have not only their Interests in many Respects, twisted together with 
the Subjects, but some things which belong to them, in a peculiar. 
Manner, as Rulers, which are very essential to the Support of Govern-| 
ment; I mean, their distinguishing Honour, their Authority and Power, 
their more special Security, and the like; and if these Interests which 
are appropriated to them, should not be duely consulted, in the Ad- 
ministration, their Glory would soon become dim, their Authority be 
trampled on, and their Persons liable to the insult of every one that 
had more Sense than Understanding, and more of Passion than either: 
And any one may easily see where this would End. 

So that it is the Good of the whole Community both Rulers and 
Ruled in Conjunction, that is the great and main End of Government; 
and therefore we find Dr. Tillotson? thus expressing himself, The great 
End of Government is, to preserve Men in their Rights, against the Encroach- 
ments of Fraud and Violence. 'To preserve Men, not this or that Person, 
or this Set of Men, only, but the whole Body of Mankind, and every 
individual Member of the Body Politick. Hence I suppose arose that 
Maxim, Salus Populi est suprema Lex, the Safety and Welfare of the 
whole, (not the Subjects only, as some are ready enough to under- 
stand it,) is to give Law to the Government, and to be preferred to 
the seperate Interest of any particular Person whatever. As the Rights, 
Liberties, Defence, Protection, and Prosperity of the Subjects are to 
be consulted; so the Honour, Majesty and Authority, of the Ruler 
are to be considered as, unitedly the Ends of Government; and tho’, 
possibly, the first may be tho’t the Primary, and the latter the Sec- 
ondary Ends, yet cannot they well be separated without the Destruc- 
tion of the Government. 


Theory of State and Society 277 


JONATHAN MAYHEW, 1720-1766 


[Jonathan Mayhew was born on Martha’s Vineyard, where his 
father, Experience Mayhew, was a famous missionary to the Indians. 
Graduating from Harvard in 1744, Jonathan Mayhew was from the 
beginning of his career a radical, an agitator, a dominating figure. 
His theological opinions were so liberal that when he was ordained 
at the West Church in Boston, in 1747, only two other ministers would 
attend; he was a forerunner of Unitarian belief as early as the 1750's, 
asserted free will, opposed the Great Awakening, fought the growing 
influence of Episcopalianism, and preached the right of revolution. He 
was a leader of sentiment against the Stamp Act, and was regarded by 
Otis and the Adamses as a prophet of the Revolution. A volume of 
sermons published in 1749 won him a D.D. from Aberdeen. His most 
famous sermon, A Discourse concerning Unlimited Submission, was delivered 
on January 30, 1750, the anniversary day of the execution of Charles I; 
this text is from the first edition. Cf. Alden Bradford, Memoir of the 
Life and Writings of Rev. Fonathan Mayhew.| 


A DISCOURSE CONCERNING UNLIMITED SUBMISSION 


F WE calmly consider the nature of the thing itself, nothing can 
well be imagined more directly contrary to common sense, than 

to suppose that millions of people should be subjected to the arbitrary, 
precarious pleasure of one single man; (who has naturally no superiority 
over them in point of authority) so that their estates, and every thing 
that is valuable in life, and even their lives also, shall be absolutely 
at his disposal, if he happens to be wanton and capricious enough to 
demand them. What unprejudiced man can think, that God made 
AL to be thus subservient to the lawless pleasure and phrenzy of 
One, so that it shall always be a sin to resist him! Nothing but the 
most plain and express revelation from heaven could make a sober 
impartial man believe such a monstrous, unaccountable doctrine, and, 
indeed, the thing itself, appears so shocking—so out of all proportion, 
that it may be questioned, whether all the miracles that ever were 
wrought, could make it credible, that this doctrine really came from 
God. At present, there is not the least syllable in scripture which gives 
any countenance to it. The hereditary, indefeasible, divine right of 
kings, and the doctrine of non-resistance, which is built upon the 
supposition of such a right, are altogether as fabulous and chimerical, 
as transubstantiation; or any of the most absurd reveries of ancient 


278 The Puritans 


or modern visionaries. These notions are fetched neither from divine 
revelation, nor human reason; and if they are derived from neither 
of those sources, it is not much matter from whence they come, or whither 
they go. Only it is a pity that such doctrines should be propagated in 
society, to raise factions and rebellions, as we see they have, in fact, 
been both in the last, and in the present, REIGN. 

But then, if unlimited submission and passive obedience to the 
higher powers, in all possible cases, be not a, duty, it will be asked, 
““How far are we obliged to submit? If we may innocently disobey and 
resist in some cases, why not in all? Where shall we stop? What is the 
measure of our duty? This doctrine tends to the total dissolution of 
civil government; and to introduce such scenes of wild anarchy and 
confusion, as are more fatal to society than the worst of tyranny.” 

After this manner, some men object; and, indeed, this is the most 
plausible thing that can be said in favor of such an absolute submission 
as they plead for. But the worst (or rather the best) of it, is, that there 
is very little strength or solidity in it. For similar difficulties may be 
raised with respect to almost every duty of natural and revealed re- 
ligion.—To instance only in two, both of which are near akin, and 
indeed exactly parallel, to the case before us. It is unquestionably the 
duty of children to submit to their parents; and of servants, to their 
masters. But no one asserts, that it.is their duty to obey, and submit 
to them, in all supposeable cases; or universally a sin to resist them. 
Now does this tend to subvert the just authority of parents and masters? 
Or to introduce confusion and anarchy into private families? No. How 
then does the same principle tend to unhinge the government of that 
larger family, the body politic? We know, in general, that children 
and servants are obliged to obey their parents and masters respectively. 
We know also, with equal certainty, that they are not obliged to submit 
to them in all things, without exception; but may, in some cases, 
reasonably, and therefore innocently, resist them. These principles are 
acknowledged upon all hands, whatever difficulty there may be in 
fixing the exact limits of submission. Now there is at least as much 
difficulty in stating the measure of duty in these two‘cases, as in the 
case of rulers and subjects. So that this is really no objection, at least 
no reasonable one, against resistance to the higher powers: Or, if it is 
one, it will hold equally against resistance in the other cases men- 
tioned.—It is indeed true, that turbulent, vicious-minded men, may 
take occasion from this principle, that their rulers may, in some cases, 
be lawfully resisted, to raise factions and disturbances in the state; 
and to make resistance where resistance is needless, and therefore, 


Theory of State and Society 2 279 


sinful. But is it not equally true, that children and servants of turbu- 
lent, vicious minds, may take occasion from this principle, that parents 
and masters may, in some cases be lawfully resisted, to resist when 
resistance is unnecessary, and therefore, criminal? Is the principle in 
either case false in itself, merely because it may be abused; and applied 
to legitimate disobedience and resistance in those instances, to which 
it ought not to be applied? According to this way of arguing, there 
will be no true principles in the world; for there are none but what 
may be wrested and perverted to serve bad purposes, either through 
the weakness or wickedness of men.* 


* We may very safely assert these two things in general, without undermining 
government: One is, That no civil rulers are to be obeyed when they enjoin things 
that are inconsistent with the commands of God: All such disobedience is lawful and 
glorious; particularly, if persons refuse to comply with any legal establishment of religion, 
because it is a gross perversion and corruption (as to doctrine, worship and discipline) 
of a pure and divine religion, brought from heaven to earth by the Son of God, (the 
only King and Head of the christian church) and propagated through the world by 
his inspired apostles. All commands running counter to the declared will of the 
supreme legislator of heaven and earth, are null and void: And therefore disobedience 
to them is a duty, not a crime. .. . Another thing that may be asserted with equal 
truth and safety, is, That no government is to be submitted to, at the expence of that 
which is the sole end of all government,—the common good and safety of society. 
Because, to submit in this case, if it should ever happen, would evidently be to set up 
the means as more valuable, and above, the end: than which there cannot be a greater 
solecism and contradiction. The only reason of the institution of civil government; 
and the only rational ground of submission to it, is the common safety and utility. 
If therefore, in any case, the common safety and utility would not be promoted by 
submission to government, but the contrary, there is no ground or motive for obedi- 
ence and submission, but, for the contrary. 

Whoever considers the nature of civil government must, indeed, be sensible that 
a great degree of implicit confidence, must unavoidably be placed in those that bear 
rule: this is implied in the very notion of authority’s being originally a trust, committed 
by the people, to those who are vested with it, as all just and righteous authority is; 
all besides, is mere lawless force and usurpation; neither God nor nature, having 
given any man a right of dominion over any society, independently of that society’s 
approbation, and consent to be governed by him—Now as all men are fallible, it 
cannot be supposed that the public affairs of any state, should be always administred 
in the best manner possible, even by persons of the greatest wisdom and integrity. 
Nor is it sufficient to legitimate disobedience to the higher powers that they are not so 
administred; or that they are, in some. instances, very ill-managed; for upon this 
principle, it is scarcely supposeable that any government at all could be supported, 
or subsist. Such a principle manifestly tends to the dissolution of government; and 
to throw all things into confusion and anarchy.—But it is equally evident, upon the 
other hand, that those in authority may abuse their trust and power to such a degree, 
that neither the law of reason, nor of religion, requires, that any obedience or sub- 
mission should be paid to them; but, on the contrary, that they should be. totally 
discarded; and the authority which they were before vested with, transferred to others, 
who may exercise it more to those good purposes for which it is given.—Nor is 
this principle, that resistance to the higher powers, is, in some extraordinary cases, 
justifiable, so liable to abuse, as many persons seem to apprehend it. For although 
there will be always some petulant, querulous men, in every state—men of factious, 


280 | The Puritans 


A PEroPLE, really oppressed to a great degree by their sovereign, 
cannot well be insensible when they are so oppressed. And such a 
people (if I may allude to an ancient fable) have, like the hesperian 
fruit, a DrRacon for their protector and guardian: Nor would they have 
any reason to mourn, if some HERcuLEs should appear to dispatch 
him—For a nation thus abused to arise unanimously, and to resist 
their prince, even to the dethroning him, is not criminal; but a reason- 
able way of vindicating their liberties and just rights; it is making 
use of the means, and the only means, which God has put into their 
power, for mutual and self-defence. And it would be highly criminal 
in them, not to make use of this means. It would be stupid tameness, 
and unaccountable folly, for whole nations to suffer one unreasonable, 
ambitious and cruel man, to wanton and riot in their misery. And 
in such a case it would, of the two, be more rational to suppose, that 
they that did nor resist, than that they who did, would receive to them- 
selves damnation. 


turbulent and carping dispositions,—glad to lay hold of any trifle to justify and 
legitimate their caballing against their rulers, and other seditious practices; yet there 
are, comparatively speaking, but few men of this contemptible character: It does not 
appear but that mankind, in general, have a disposition to be as submissive and 
passive and tame under government as they ought to be.—Witness a great, if not 
the greatest, part of the known world, who are now groaning, but not murmuring, 
under the heavy yoke of tyranny! While those who govern, do it with any tolerable 
degree of moderation and justice, and, in any good measure act up to their office 
and character, by being public benefactors; the people will generally be easy and 
peaceable; and be rather inclined to flatter and adore, than to insult and resist, them. 
Nor was there ever any general complaint against any administration, which lasted 
long, but what there was good reason for. ‘Till people find themselves greatly abused 
and oppressed by their governors, they are not apt to complain; and whenever they 
do, in fact, find themselves thus abused and oppressed, they must be stupid not to 
complain. To say that subjects in general are not proper judges when their gover- 
nors oppress them, and play the tyrant; and when they defend their rights, administer 
justice impartially, and promote the public welfare, is as great treason as ever man 
uttered;—’tis treason,—not against one single man, but the state—against the whole 
body politic;—’tis treason against mankind;—’tis treason against common sense; 
—’tis treason against God. And this impious principle lays the foundation for justify- 
ing all the tyranny and oppression that ever any prince was guilty of. The people 
know for what end they set up, and maintain, their governors; and they are the 
proper judges when they execute their trust as they ought to do it;—when their 
prince exercises an equitable and paternal authority over them;—when from a 
prince and common father, he exalts himself into a tyrant—when from subjects and 
children, he degrades them into the class of slaves;—plunders them, makes them 
his prey, and unnaturally sports himself with their lives and fortunes—— 


ee Chapter III 


THIS WORLD AND THE NEXT 


HE historian of the New England Puritans frequently has occa- 
ae sion to lament the many dry bones of metaphysics and abstruse 
theology which he is compelled to turn up in the effort to resurrect 
a semblance of that extinct species; his construction is bound all 
too often to resemble one of those grinning skeletons of antediluvian 
monsters, imperfectly wired together and stored in some museum of 
paleontology, making altogether too exorbitant a demand upon the 
imagination of the spectator to carry the conviction that the creature 
ever lived and breathed and moved. The vast differences between the 
intellect of the seventeenth century and the present necessitate so much 
laborious restatement of the abstractions of Puritanism that the flesh 
and blood realities of the Puritans themselves are lost to view. It is 
supremely difficult for us to imagine that the doctrine was not always 
present in their minds as we find it embalmed in a crabbed catechism, 
and still more difficult for us to understand that to them it was an 
all pervading sensibility, a depth of feeling, and a way of life, that 
it was not only of the mind but just as much of the heart and the 
passions. 

When we come to examine the sermons, the words delivered from 
the pulpits by living men to living ears, we find that the ideas therein 
discussed were indeed those of the creed, the dogmas of original sin, 
irresistible grace, and predestination. But they were not developed as 
points in a formal lecture, or expounded as curious and technical 
problems; they were ‘not preached as doctrines, or contentions, or 
-theories, but as vivid facts. The systematized theology served primarily 
as a frame of reference within which the issues of human existence 
could be confronted immediately. The language employed was not 
that of the schoolroom and the textbook, but of the streets, of trades, 
of adventures. The sentences were not bare abstractions, but concrete 
dramatizations, replete with the imagery of fishing, farming, carpenter- 
ing, of the city and the meadow, of the seasons and of the moods of 
men. The method of developing sermons from texts in the Bible 
strengthened this tendency to concrete and solid presentation; the 
ministers did not select a doctrine to preach upon, and then hunt 
texts to support it, but they took this or that text and deciphered its 
meaning. That man is naturally bound in sin and must hang upon 


the dispensations of grace from God—this was a dogma; but as 
281 


282 The Puritans 


Thomas Hooker preaches, it takes form no longer as a colorless generali- 
zation, but as an unforgettable picture: 


You know the Dog must stay till his Master comes in, and when hee 
is come, hee must stay till he sit downe, and till hee cut his meate, 
and hee must not have the meate from ae trencher neither, when he 
hath stayed all this while, he hath nothing but the crums. So it is 
with a poore sinner; you must not thinke that God will bee at your 
becke: No, you must bee content with the crums of mercy, and pity, 
and lye under the table til the Lord let the crums fall.t 


That a regenerate man progresses from the initial stage of illumination 
to a fuller and deeper immersion in grace was a tenet of the creed; 
but as John Cotton develops it in the passage below, through the 
metaphor of a man wading into the waters of a shallow beach and at 
last reaching the cool depths, out of sight of land, the paragraph, in- 
stead of being a logical proof, becomes an ecstatic prose poem. 

The most persistent misunderstanding of the Puritan mind in con- 
temporary criticism results in the charge that it was fatalistic. To one 
unfamiliar with the inward power of the belief, who judges merely 
upon the external evidence of the doctrine, there seems no conceivable 
motive for positive human exertion; the logical inference from the 
decrees of predestination and reprobation would seem to be the at- 
titude which Increase Mather is found herein discussing, the frame 
of mind in which a man says, “God does not send me grace, I can’t 
convert myself,’ and gives over trying. Though the Puritan did indeed 
live much of his life by logic, he did not so live all of it or even the 
most important part of it. Dialectics and syllogisms do not account 
for the driving force of the Massachusetts settlers, or for the vehemence 
of the Ironsides’ cavalry charges, whose enemies ““God made as stubble , 
to our swords.’ In these selections Increase Mather disposes of this 
question of passivity in what had become the conventional response; 
but by his day the zeal was already beginning to decline, and his 
answer is probably not the best solution of the problem. Perhaps the 
finest statement of the invigorating effects of a philosophy of divine 
determination is Oliver Cromwell’s account of his thoughts. before the 
battle of Naseby, when his ranks of “‘poor, ignorant men”’ were being 
drawn up to face the oncoming host of gallant and flashing cavaliers; 
then, says Cromwell, “I could not, riding alone about my business, 
but smile out to God in praises, in assurance of victory, because God 
would, by things that are not, bring to naught things that are. Of 


1 The Soules Humiliation (London, 1638), p. 127. 


This World and the Next 283 


which I had great assurance, and God did it.”’ ! How men could work 
themselves into this frame of mind, combining trust in God’s dis- 
posing power with an assurance of victory, going through fire and 
water in order that what was decreed might be fulfilled, what sort 
of thinking brought them to this conclusion, may appear by the se- 
lections in this chapter from the sermons of Thomas Hooker. His ex- 
haustive analysis of the true sight of sin, and his stirring account of 
the struggle of the saint with inherent evil uncover the sources of 
that almost titanic energy of which the Puritans were so abundantly 
possessed. A true sight of sin, he says, consists in perceiving it ‘“‘clearly”’ 
and “‘convictingly,’”? and the imagery by which he brings home the 
full brilliance of the clarity and the overwhelming weight of the con- 
viction makes clear why there was little need for him to dwell upon 
a remote and semi-mythological fall of Adam, or no need whatsoever 
to entangle his auditors in the subtleties of free will, foreordination 
and absolute decree. Anyone who ever saw himself as pitilessly as 
Hooker requires would thereafter spend his days and nights in feverish 
exertions to lift himself out of such a mire of depravity. When the 
soul saw its task, thus clearly and convictingly, as a fact, not a theory, 
then also the need for divine assistance in escaping the clutch of sin 
was no longer something to be proved by a series of geometrical cor- 
ollaries but became a desperate hunger gnawing ceaselessly at a man’s 
very vitals. The thrill, the excitement, the challenge of the conflict 
against Satan would entirely drive out of his mind the suggestion 
that he might better fold his hands and await the pleasure of God. 
When we consider how intense, in Puritan eyes, was the warfare of 
the spirit and the flesh, and how interminable a campaign the true 
soldier of Christ undertook when he enrolled himself in the regiment 
of the godly, then we can perhaps gauge the true sublimity of Puri- 
tanism as we find Hooker insisting, and his congregation no doubt 
agreeing, that the awakened sinner should actually be grateful to the 
minister who by his. winged sermons had pierced the doors of his 
complacency, he should be overjoyed that he had been dragged against 
all his natural inclinations from the peace and security of a false con- 
tentment into the heat and fury of this battle. 

Inspired volunteers, going forth under the banners of truth, do not 
make lazy or halfhearted campaigners. But if the religion of the 
Puritan was intense, it was not foolhardy. He was ecstatic, but not 
insane. He employed self-analysis, meditation, and incessant soul- 
searching to drive out sin from one stronghold after another; in every 

1 Charles Firth, Oliver Cromwell (London, 1900), p. 127. 


284 The Puritans 


siege he had to be not only valiant, but self-controlled, patient, wary, 
and crafty. It was an entirely subjective struggle; the victories were 
gained within the soul, and the final triumph could never be won 
on this side of the grave. Consequently while the saints were occupied 
internally with the conquest of evil, they could not expect to fare 
externally any better than others. All men must live among men and 
as men; whether their souls are filled with the Holy, Ghost or not, 
they must suffer the diseases and decays to which men are subject. 
The exhilaration of faith is known to the heart of the believer, but, 
as Samuel Willard explains, those inward supports are remote from 
public view. Appearances therefore are deceiving, and the saint must 
keep his wits about him; he must remain calm in the midst of ardor, 
he must burn with fervor, but always be detached and analytical, 
to make sure that his agitation is genuinely of the spirit, not of mere 
human cupidity, and to guard against suffocating the flame with false 
assurances and outward conformity. Puritanism would make every 
man an expert psychologist, to detect all makeshift ‘“‘rationalizations,”’ 
to shatter without pity the sweet dreams of self-enhancement in which 
the ego takes refuge from reality. A large quantity of Puritan sermons 
were devoted to exquisite analyses of the differences between “‘hypo- 
crites” and saints, and between one kind of hypocrite and another, 
to exposing not merely the conscious duplicity of evil men, but the 
abysmal tricks which the subconscious can play upon the best of men. 
The duty of the Puritan in this world was to know himself—without 
sparing himself one bit, without flattering himself in the slightest, 
without concealing from himself a single unpleasant fact about him- 
self. 

In the course of this sustained and unmitigated meditation, he per- 
petually measured himself by the highest imaginable excellency. The 
Puritan was taught to approve of no act because it was good enough 
for the circumstances, to rest content with no performance because it 
was the best that could be done in this or that situation. He knew 
indeed that life is imperfect, that the purest saints do not ever entirely 
disentangle themselves from the meshes of corruption, but though per- 
fection was unattainable—even more because it was so—he bent every 
nerve and sinew to attempting the attainment. The Puritan life might 
be compared to that of a poet laboring under penalty of death to 
produce several hundred lines a day, and yet driven by an acute 
critical sense to despise every passage, every phrase that did not flow 
from the fountain of fresh and original inspiration. Nothing was to 
be done by the force of habit, in the facility of mere technical pro- 


This World and the Next 285 


ficiency, by mechanical routine; ideally every moment and every 
action should reveal radiations of the supernal vitality. So far as 
men fell short of this ideal, they were contemptible. Over against 
this transcendent standard, physical existence was inevitably seen as 
frail, transitory, and unprofitable. When two Harvard students broke 
through the ice while skating, and were drowned, Increase Mather 
drew the moral that the times of men are in the hand of God, that 
no one knows when the blow will fall upon himself, or what lies in 
wait for him tomorrow or the day after. No trust is to be put in the 
things of this world, no reliance placed upon material devices. Life 
is a chronicle of accidents and blunders, reversals and hopes defeated. 

But at the same time, if life in the world is a melancholy spectacle, 
it is not a tale told by an idiot; there is indeed sound and fury, but 
behind the meaningless futility of appearances there stand the ranks 
of the eternal verities. The ax-head may slip, as Urian Oakes says, 
and the skull of an innocent and good man be split; but the Puritan 
is not thereupon to cry, “Out, out—.” The blade was guided by the 
steady hand of God, and somewhere, somehow there is a reason for 
this casualty, there must be a justice behind the apparent injustice. 
Men may not readily see it; like John Winthrop telling of the lady 
whose linen was burned and whose husband was shortly afterwards 
slain (p. 137), they may be hard pressed to explain why some events 
turn out as they do, and be brought time and time again to confess 
that in this or that series of misfortunes or streaks of luck they can 
not discover the wisdom of God. Nevertheless, that He who orders 
all things does order them by the counsel of His perfect reason and 
that nothing in the world is really chance, accident, or blind fate— 
this was the constant and unshakable conviction of the Puritan. The 
one thing he insisted upon, however, was that in order that this con- 
viction might be upheld, no realities should be glossed over, no horror 
and no agony denied. The assertion was to be made with a clear-eyed 
perception of things as they do fall out, for weal or for woe. 

All events therefore have their reason and their logic. We must 
strain to the full extent of our capacities to discover the reason and 
comprehend the logic. But our finite minds can not grasp all things, 
and our corrupted intellects can not understand all the things we grasp. 
No matter how much we know, there will always remain a margin 
to the page of knowledge which we cannot explore; the limits of the 
universe are not searchable with the human eye. The labor demanded 
of the intelligent man is that he give over no exertion to account for 
things, that he never accept without endeavouring to explain, that 


286 The Puritans 


he never take a conclusion on trust until he has exhausted all means 
to take it on reason; but all the time he must remember that explana- 
tion can only go so far, that mortal reason is not God’s reason, that 
there is always more ignorance to be confessed than certain knowledge 
to be enjoyed. The Puritan was completely hospitable to the revolu- 
tionizing discoveries made by physical science during the seventeenth 
century, but as long as he remained true to the fundamentals of 
Puritanism he was not deceived into concluding that man had at 
last unriddled the universe. 


What the admirable sagacity of future ages may compass as to 
thousands of problems within the circle of Sciences, or in that most 
noble Art of Chymistry, or the Analysis of the three kingdoms of 
nature: the tubes and glasses of our present inventions give us no 
sufficient prospect. ... ‘The learned of this age wonder at the denial 
of the motion of the Earth, tho now the truth of it appears clear to 
all the generality of the ingenious of Europe... 

Indeed so may posterity deride at these our ages, and the more 
ingenious of future times, may stand amazed at our dulness and stu- 
pidity about minerals, meteors and the cure of diseases, and many 
thousand things besides, about the lustre of stars and precious stones, 
which may be as easy to them as letters to us . . . Such rare inventions 
may be given in of God to beautifie the glory of the latter days. All 
our writings in Divinity, will be like insipid water, to what shall then 
appear upon the Stage, ...and the Artists that shall then be born, 
may discover more things in the works of God to be discust and en- 
deavoured to be explained, then they themselves shall arrive to. The 
- superfine Wisdom and Learned Wits of those acute times will discover 
vast regions of darkness and ignorance. There will be a plus ultra to 
the end of the world... if in millions of things we are stunted and 
fooled at every turn, that we may cry out with the Satyrist—Auriculas 
Asini quis non habet? What fearful sots are we in the things before us? 
Then what shall dull reason do in the great sublimities and solemnities 
of faith, and the doctrine set forth by Infinite Wisdom. 1 | 


It was in the eighteenth century, along with their reaction against 
the religious theory of society, that New Englanders abandoned the 
caution inculcated by this passage, and then many of them jumped 
as blithely as did the rest of the learned world to the comfortable 
conclusion that Sir Isaac Newton had explained the mind of God. 
Two hundred years afterwards physics has become more metaphysical 
than scholasticism itself, astronomers turn to writing “in Divinity,” 
and before our superfine wisdoms loom vast regions of darkness and 


1 Samuel Lee, Xapa rns Iisews, The Foy of Faith (Boston, 1687), pp. 212-214. © 


This World and the Next 287 


ignorance, as the visible universe has become once again relative to 
itself and full of exceedingly deceptive appearances. 

Urian Oakes concludes his sermon on providence with an injunc- 
tion which was constantly delivered from New England pulpits: ‘“‘labour 
to be prepared and provided for Disappointments.”? Put beside this 
another instruction which was equally recurrent through the sermons 
of Puritan ministers: ‘‘as the things and objects are, great, or mean, 
that men converse withall; so they are high or low spirited.” ! Take 
these two rules together—on the one hand, to expect nothing but dis- 
appointment in this life, on the other, to cultivate a high-spirited frame 
of mind by converse with the highest objects of contemplation, and 
between these two poles the daily life of the Puritans oscillated. John 
Cotton gives instructions to artisans, farmers, and merchants for the 
prosecution of their callings, explaining that men should pursue their 
worldly vocations, but not expect too much from them, should work 
in them, and yet labor in faith. His requirements would seem full 
of inconsistencies and impossibilities to one unadjusted to the dual 
‘contention of the Puritan synthesis: the fallibility of material existence 
and the infallibility of the spiritual, the necessity for living in a world 
of time and space according to the laws of that time and that place, 
with never once forgetting that the world will pass, be resolved back 
into nothingness, that reality and permanence belong to things not 
as they appear to the eye but to the mind. 


It is by the Spiritual Operations and Actions of our minds that we 
meet with the Lord, and have a kind of intercourse with the Almighty, 
who is a Spirit. For al outward things are for the body, the body for 
the soul, the soul is nextly for God, and therefore meets as really with 
him in the Actions of Understanding, as the Eye meets with the Light 
in Seeing; which no other Creature can do, nor no action of a bodily 
Creature doth. Our Sences in their sinful and inordinate swervings, 
when they become means and in-lets of evil from their objects, they 
meet with the Creature firstly, and there make the jar: It’s the beauty 
of the Object that stirs up to lust by the Eye, the daintiness of the Diet 
that provokes to intemperance by the tast, the harsh and unkind 
language that provokes to wrath and impatience by the Ear: But 
the Mind and Understanding toucheth the Lord directly, meets with 
his Rule, and with God acting in the way of his Government there, 
and when it goes off from the Rule as before, and attends its own 
vanity and folly, it justles with the Almighty, stands in open defyance 
and resistance against him.? 

1 Jonathan Mitchell, A Discourse of the Glory To which God hath called Believers (London, 


1677), pp. 225-226. 
Thomas Hooker, The Application of Redemption (London, 1659), pp. 158-159. 


288 The Puritans 


The man.who is misled by appearances ‘‘justles’” with God, and is 
not merely a sinner and a reprobate; he is, still more tragically, a 
man to whom reality, the order of things ‘‘as they be,” will never 
become known. Puritanism was regulated by the possibility of each 
man’s achieving this insight, on whatever level of culture or educa- 
tion he dwelt, with the aid of divine grace; the assumption was that 
once this comprehension was gained, men would be able to live amid 
disappointments without being dissappointed, amid deceptions without 
being deceived, amid temptations without yielding to them, amid 
cruelties without becoming cruel. | 

The ideal of conduct thus held out was definitely affirmative. There 
is very little preaching of hell-fire in seventeenth-century sermons; 
Hooker’s sentences are as far in that direction as any minister went 
before the beginning of the evangelical revival and the thunderings 
of Jonathan Edwards. So often are the first Puritans accused of living 
in fear and trembling under the threat of eternal torment that this 
point needs to be heavily underscored. That the ministers did not 
play upon their congregations’ nerves by painting the horrors of thé 
pit was because, for one thing no doubt, the sensibilities of people 
in the seventeenth century were inured to violence. This was still the 
age in which mothers took their children for a treat to public execu- 
tions. In part the lack of brimstone sermons is accounted for by the 
Puritan disinclination to make religion emotional at the cost of judicious 
analysis and sound intellectual conviction. In converting sinners, said 
Samuel Willard, we must “‘imitate God’’; we must ‘“‘first deal with 
their understandings; to raise the affections, without informing the 
mind, is a fruitlesse unprofitable labour, and serves but to make zeal 
without knowledge.” + But still more fundamentally, Puritan ministers 
did not bludgeon their people with the bloody club of damnation be- 
cause their eyes were fixed upon the positive side of religion, upon 
the beauties of salvation, the glory of God, and the joy of faith. The 
worst they could imagine for the reprobate was not physical burnings 
and unslaked thirst, but the deprivation of God’s spirit. 


There is a great deal goes to the eternal life of a soul, and thou 
hast none of it; thou wantest the love of God, which is better than 
life; thou wantest grace which is indeed the inward principle of life 
in the soul; thou wantest the promise which is the support of the soul 
here in this life.? 


1 Mercy Magnified on a Penitent Prodigal (Boston, 1684), p. 150. 
2 Ibid., p. 106. 


This World and the Next | | 289 


What were racks and tortures compared to the want of these things? 
The applications or “‘uses’”’ of all doctrines stated in the sermons stress 
continually the note of hope, the possibility that anyone, no matter 
how immoral or depraved he has been, may yet be saved; it is_only 
with the next century that men are bluntly told how God abhors them 
and holds them over the pit of Hell as one holds a spider or some 
loathsome insect over the fire. When the seventeenth-century preacher 
wanted to arouse men he would tell them not of the irreversible sen- 
tence passed upon them in the future world, but would instance afflic- 
tions already suffered, or predict those to come, in this world—plagues, 
fires, earthquakes, and shipwrecks—punishments that men might sur- 
vive and from which they might profit. This tendency undoubtedly 
produced some unpleasant characteristics, and gave opportunity for 
such an egotist as Increase Mather, or for such an egomaniac as his 
son Cotton, to hurl the vengeance of God at persons or actions they 
themselves did not happen to like, and even forced solid minds like 
John Winthrop’s to twist coincidences into special interpositions of 
the deity. The bent of the seventeenth-century Puritan was to portray 
God as indeed a stern disciplinarian and one not to be trifled with, 
but nevertheless not as a savage chief exulting in the protracted 
writhings of his helpless captives. The deity was first and foremost 
the source of that spirit of peace to which some men might attain, 
“and sometimes in that unspeakable measure, as that it passeth the 
understanding of a man to conceive.” ! Not all men would or could 
reach this light, but no single individual need ever give over the hope 
that he might discover himself one of the favored, or ever abandon 
the endeavor to make himself one of them. 

Thus the Puritan lived in this world, and tried desperately not to 
be of it; he followed his calling, plowed his land, laid away his shillings, 
and endeavored to keep his mind on the future life. He looked upon 
the physical world as the handiwork of God, and the charms of the 
universe as His creations, and yet he told himself, “Get thy heart 
more and more weaned from the Creature, the Creature is empty, 
its not able to satisfie thee fully, nor make thee happy.” ? He came to 
New England to make an earthly home, but for many years he looked 
upon his home, as far as’ any conscious expression would indicate, 
entirely in terms of the right ecclesiastical polity and the place of 
true doctrine; he lived through New England summers, the splen- 


1 John Cotton, Christ the Fountaine (London, 1651), p. 102. 
2 Edward Reyner, The Rule of the New Creature, appended to Hooker, The Danger 
of Desertion (London, 1641), p. 29. 


290 : The Puritans 


dors of the fall, he inhaled the sea airs and heard the pine boughs sway, 
and he believed he was thinking only of election and serving the will 
of God. He reminded himself again and again that ‘“‘the beauty of 
the object stirs up to lust by the Eye.” 

Samuel Sewall, solid, bulky judge, literal-minded, no match for the 
quick wit of Madam Winthrop, would hardly in the wildest stretch 
of the imagination be called a poetic soul. He wrote two treatises on 
the fulfillment of Biblical prophecies, and worried over the bewilder- 
ing texts of the Book of Revelations, until we wonder how even a 
person who believed that every single letter and dot of punctuation 
in the Scripture was directly dictated by God could still spend so 
much time so fruitlessly and unimaginatively as in arguing the pre- 
cise years of the opening of the seven seals, or in trying to decide in 
just what thousand years Satan would be bound. These were indeed 
Puritan compositions, exhibiting the worst qualities of the Puritan 
mind, its slavish literalness, its deficient sense of proportion, its bearing 
down upon minutiae with the same emphasis brought to larger and 
fundamental points. And then at the end, in asserting that a certain 
prophecy might be fulfilled in America, Sewall finds himself justifying 
the land itself, as a fit scene for the enactment of God’s triumph, and 
without quite knowing what he is doing sings a hymn of praise to the 
purely physical-and sensuous New England. He had been a boy at 
Newbury, had played on the beach at Plum Island, and although his 
determination had been set upon the other world and his efforts de- 
voted to rendering mystical visions into dull prose, he himself proves 
that all this time the beauty of the land, the loveliness of the objects, 
had not been entirely lost upon him. He had felt the hectoring wind 
on Plum Island, heard the sea-gull, smelt the marshes. The Puritans 
were not blind or insensitive. They saw and loved the perch and pick- 
erel, the dove and the white oak and the rows of Indian corn; but even 
from a world as beautiful and lovely as this they yet hoped to be trans- 
lated, ‘“‘to be made partakers of the Inheritance of the Saints in Light.” 


THOMAS HOOKER, 1586-1647 


[Thomas Hooker was probably born in Marfield, Leicestershire, of 
yeomen stock. Admitted sizar at Queen’s College, Cambridge, he mi- 
grated to Emmanuel, taking his B.A. in 1608, his M.A. in 1611. He was 
a fellow of Emmanuel College, 1609-1618, acquiring the reputation ofa 
great teacher and preacher; rector of Esher in Surrey, 1620, lecturer at 
St. Mary’s, Chelmsford, in Essex, 1626, he was finally forced by Bishop 


This World and the Next | 291 


Laud to retire when he had become one of the most conspicuous 
leaders of Puritan sentiment in the land. For a year he kept a school 
at Little Baddow, where John Eliot was his assistant. Cited before the 
High Commission in 1630, he was given the amount of his bail by 
devoted followers and fled to Holland. For two years he was minister 
of an English Puritan church at Delft, then at Rotterdam, where he was 
associated with the great William Ames. A group of his friends from 
Chelmsford migrated to New England in a body, and persuaded him 
to come over to be their pastor. He sailed on the same ship with Stone 
and Cotton, after various adventures escaping the Anglican authorities, 
and was ordained pastor of the church at Newtown. In 1635 his con- 
_ gregation asked permission to move to Connecticut and the magistrates 
refused; in 1636 Hooker led his people to Hartford, apparently in 
spite of the Massachusetts authorities, who put the best face possible 
on the secession. For the rest of his life he was the virtual dictator of 
Connecticut; he returned several times to the Bay, once to be moderator 
of the synod at which the opinions of Anne Hutchinson were con- 
demned. He was a powerful and dominating figure; Cotton Mather 
said of him that he could put a King in his pocket. He was one of the 
most eloquent of Puritan preachers, perhaps the most powerful pulpit 
orator among the ministers of New England. His manner seems to 
have been less scholastic and logical than that of Cotton, his style 
more popular and more ornamented with similes and figures. At the 
same time he was as great a master of dialectic and argument; his 
Survey of the Summe of Church Discipline is the supreme exposition of the 
Congregational church polity, couched in the terms and figures of the 
Ramean logic, and containing a complete expression not merely of 
New England ecclesiastical theory but of political doctrine and of the 
philosophical concepts of law, nature, and reason. He has frequently 
been claimed as an exponent of a more democratic social philosophy 
than that embraced by the Massachusetts leaders, but this opinion rests 
upon a misreading of two or three of his utterances; his religious and 
_ political opinions were thoroughly orthodox and he maintained them 

with vigor. See G. L. Walker, Thomas Hooker, 1891; Perry Miller, New 
England Quarterly, TV (1931), 663-712. This text is from The Applica- 
tion of Redemption By the Effectual Work of the Word, and Spirit of Christ, for 
the bringing home of Lost Sinners to God. The Ninth and Tenth Books, 2d. 
edition (London, 1659), pp. 52-66, 210-217, 234-238, 453-459. The 
sermons in this volume were delivered at Hartford.] 


292 The Puritans 


A TRUE SIGHT OF SIN 


Wherein this true sight, and apprehension of sin properly discovers it self. 


ANSWER, A true sight of sin hath two Conditions attending upon it; 
I or it appears in two things: We must see sin, 1. Cleerly. 2. Con- 
victingly, what it is in it self, and what it is to us, not in the appearance 
and paint of it, but in the power of it; not to fadam it in the notion and 
conceit only, but to see it with Application. 

We must see it cleerly in its own Nature, its Native color and proper 
hue: It’s not every slight conceit, not every general and cursorie, 
confused thought or careless consideration that will serve the turn, or 
do the work here, we are all sinners; it is my infirmity, I cannot help 
it; my weakness, I cannot be rid of it; no man lives without faults and 
follies, the best have their failings, Jn many things we offend all. But alas 
all this wind shakes no Corn, it costs more to see sin aright than a few 
words of course; It’s one thing to say sin is thus and thus, another thing 
to see it to be such; we must look wis[e]ly and steddily upon our dis- 
tempers, look sin in the face, and discern it to the full; the want 
whereof is the cause of our mistaking our estates, and not redressing of 
our hearts and waies, Gal. 6. 4. Let a man prove his own work. Before the 
Goldsmith can sever and see the Dross asunder from the Gold, he must 
search the very. bowels of the Mettal, and try it by touch, by tast, by 
hammer, and by fire; and then he will be able to speak by proof what 
it is; So here. We perceive sin in the crowd and by hearsay, when we 
attend some common and customary expressions taken up by persons 
in their common converse, and so report what others speak, and yet 
never knew the Truth, what either others or we, say, but we do not 
single out our corruptions and survey the loathsomness of them, as 
they come naked in their own Natures; this we ought to do: There is 
great ods betwixt the knowledg of a Traveller, that in his own person 
hath taken a view of many Coasts, past through many Countries, and 
hath there taken up his abode some time, and by Experience hath been 
an Eye-witness of the extream cold, and scorching heats, hath surveyed 
the glory and beauty of the one, the barrenness and meanness of the 
other; he hath been in the Wars, and seen the ruin and desolation 
wrought there; and another that sits by his fire side, and happily reads 
the story of these in a Book, or views the proportion of these in a Map, 
the ods is great, and the difference of their knowledg more than a 
little: the one saw the Country really, the other only in the story; the 
one hath seen the very place, the other only in the paint of the Map 
drawn. The like difference is there in the right discerning of sin; the 


This World and the Next | 293 


one hath surveyed the compass of his whol course, searched the frame 
of his own heart, and examined the windings and turnings of his own 
waies, he hath seen what sin is, and what it hath done, how it hath made 
havock of his peace and comfort, ruinated and laid wast the very 
Principles of Reason and Nature, and Morality, and made him a 
terror to himself, when he hath looked over the loathsom abominations 
that lie in his bosom, that he is afraid to approach the presence of the 
Lord to bewail his sins, and to crave pardon, lest he should be con- 
founded for them, while he is but confessing of them; afraid and 
ashamed lest any man living should know but the least part of that 
which he knows by himself, and could count it happy that himself was 
not, that the remembrance of those hideous evils of his might be no 
more; Another happily hears the like preached or repeated, reads 
them writ or recorded in some Authors, and is able to remember and 
relate them. The ods is marvelous great. The one sees the History of 
sin, the other the Nature of it; the one knows the relation of sin as it is 
mapped out, and recorded; the other the poyson, as by experience he 
hath found and proved it. It’s one thing to see a disease in the Book, 
or in a mans body, another thing to find and feel it in a mans self. 
There is the report of it, here the malignity and venom of it. 

But how shall we see cleerly the Nature of sin in his naked hue? 

This will be discovered, and may be conceived in the Particulars 
following. Look we at it: First, As it respects God. Secondly, As it 
concerns our selves. As it hath reference to God, the vileness of the 
nature of sin may thus appear. 

It would dispossess God of that absolute Supremacy which is indeed 
his Prerogative Royal, and doth in a peculiar manner appertayn to 
him, as the Diamond of his Crown, and Diadem of his Deity, so the 
Apostle, He is God over all blessed for ever, Rom. 9. 5. All from him and all 
for him, he is the absolute first being, the absolute last end, and herein 
is the crown of his Glory. Al those attributes of Wisdom, Goodness, 
Holiness, Power, Justice, Mercy, the shine and Concurrency of all 
these meeting together is to set out the unconceivable excellency of his 
Glorious name, which exceeds all praise, Thyne 1s the kingdom, the power 
and the glory, the right of all and so the rule of all and the Glory of all ~ 
belongs to him. 

Now herein lyes the unconceavable hainousness of the hellish nature 
of sin, it would justle the Almighty out of the Throne of his Glorious 
Soveraignty, and indeed be above him. For the will of man being the 
chiefest of all his workmanship, all for his body, the body of the soul, 
the mind to attend upon the will, the will to attend upon God, and to 


294 yl he Puritans 


make choyce of him, and his wil, that is next to him, and he onely 
above that: and that should have been his Throne and Temple or 
Chair of State, in which he would have Set his Soveraignty for ever. 
He did in an Especial manner intend to meet with man, and to com- 
municate himself to man in his righteous Law, as the rule of his Holy 
and righteous will, by which the will of Adam should have been ruled ~ 
and guided to him, and made happie in him; and all Creatures should | 
have served God in man, and been happy by or through him, serving 
of God being happy in him; But when the'will went from under the 
government of his rule, by sin, zt would be above God, and be happy with-. 
out him, for the rule of the law in each command of it, holds forth a 
three-fold expression of Soveraignty from the Lord, and therein the 
Soveraignty of all the rest of his Attributes. 

1. The Powerful Supremacy of his just will, as that he hath right 
to dispose of all and authority to command all at his pleasure; What 
if God will? Rom. 9. 22 My Counsel shall stand and I wil do all my pleasure, 
Isa. 46. 10. And as its true of what shal be done upon us, so his wil 
hath Soveraignty of Gommand in what should be done by us we are 
to say the will of the Lord be done; Davids warrant was to do all Gods wils 
Acts. 13. 22. and our Saviour himself professeth; John. 6. 38. that he 
came not to do his own will but the will of him that sent him, and therfore his 
wrath and jealousie and judgment will break out in case that be dis- 
obeyed. 

2. There is also a fulness of wisdom in the law of God revealed to 
guide & direct us in the way we should walk, Psal. 19. 7. the law of God 
makes wise the simple, 2. Tim. 3. 15. tt’s able to make us wise unto Salvation. 

3. There’s a Sufficiency of God to content and satisfy us. Blessed are 
they who walk in his wayes, and blessed are they that keep his Testimonies. 
Psal. 119. 1. 2. Great prosperity have they that love the law, and nothing shal 
offend them, ver. 16. and in truth there can be no greater reward for 
doing wel, than to be enabled to do well, he that hath attayned his 
last end he cannot go further, he cannot be better; 

Now by sin we justle the law out of its place, and the Lord out of his 
Glorious Soveraignty, pluck the Crown from his head, and the Seepter 
out of his hand, and we say and profess. by our practice, there is not 
authority and power there to govern, nor wisdom to guide, nor good 
to content me, but I will be swayed by mine own wil and led by mine 
own deluded reason and satisfied with my own lusts. This is the guise 
of every graceless heart in the commission of sin; so Pharaoh who 1s the 
Lord? I know not the Lord, nor will I lett Israel go. Exod. 5. 2. in the time of 
their prosperity see how the Jews turn their backs and shake off the 


This World and the Next 295 


authority ofthe Lord, we are Lords (say they) we will come no more at thee. 
Fer. 2. 31. and our tongues are our own who shal be Lords over us? Psal. 12. 4. 
So for the wisdom of the world, see how they set light by it as not worth 
the looking after it Jer. 18. 12. we wil walk after our own devices © we wil 
every one do the imagination of his own evil heart, yea they sett up their own 
traditions, their own Idols and delusions, and Lord it over the law, 
making the command of God of none effect Math. 15. 8. 9. So for the goodness 
of the word; Job. 22. 17. Mat. 3. 14. It ts in vayn to serve God and what 
profit is there that we have kept his ordinances, yea his Commandemnts are ever 
grievous, Its a grievous thing to the loose person he cannot have his 
pleasures but he must have his guilt and gall with them; Its grievous 
to the worlding that he cannot lay hold on the world by unjust means, 
but Conscience layes hold upon him as breaking the law. Thou that 
knowest and keepest thy pride and stubbornness and thy distempers, 
know assuredly thou dost justle God out of the Throne of his glorious 
Soveraignty and thou dost profess, Not Gods wil but thine own (which 
is above his) shall rule thee, thy carnal reason and the folly of thy mind, 
is above the wisdome of the Lord and that shal guide thee; to please 
thine own stubborn crooked pervers spirit, is a greater good than to 
please God and enjoy happines, for this more Contents, thee; That 
when thou considerest but thy Course, dost thou not wonder that the 
great and Terrible God doth not pash such a poor insolent worm to 
pouder, and send thee packing to the pitt every moment. 

2. It smites at the Essence of the Almighty and the desire of the 
sinner, is not only that God should not be supream but that indeed he 
should not be at all, and therefore it would destroy the being of Jehovah. 
_ Psal. 81. 15. sinners are called the haters of the Lord. John. 15. 24. they 
hated both me and my Father. Now he that hates endeavours if it be possi- 
ble the annihilation of the thing hated, and its most certain were it in 
their power, they would pluck God out of Heaven the light of his truth 
out of their Consciences, and the law out of the Societies and Assemblies 
where they live, that they might have elbow room to live as they list. 
Nay what ever they hate most and intend, and plott more evil against 
in al the world, they hate God most of all, and intend more evil against 
him than against all their Enemies besides, because they hate all for 
his sake, therefore wicked men are said to destroy the law Psal. 126. 119 
the Adulterer loaths that law that condemns, uncleaness; the Earth- 
worm would destrow that law that forbids Covetousness, they are sayd 
to hate the light John 3. 21. to hate the Saints and Servants of the Lord 
John 15. 18. the world hates you, he that hates the Lanthorn for the lights 
sake, he hates the light much more, he that hates the faithful because 


296 The Puritans 


of the Image of God, and the Grace that appears there, he hates the 
God of all, Grace and Holiness, most of all, so God to Zenacharib, Isa. 
37. 28. I know thy going out and thy Comming in, and thy rage against me, 
Oh it would be their content, if there was no God in the world to 
govern them, no law to curbe them, no justice to punish, no truth to 
trouble them, Learn therfore to see how far your rebellions reach, It 
is not arguments you gainsay, not the Counsel of a Minister you reject, 
the command of a Magistrate ye oppose, evidence of rule or reason ye 
resist; but be it known to you, you fly in the very face of the Almighty, 
and it is not the Gospel of Grace ye would have destroyed, but the 
spirit of Grace, the author of Grace the Lord Jesus, the God of all 
Grace that ye hate. 

It crosseth the whol course of Providence, perverts the work of the 
Creature and defaceth the beautiful frame, and that sweet corre- 
spondence and orderly usefulness the Lord first implanted in the order 
of things; The Heavens deny their influence, the Earth her strength, 
the Corn her nourishment, thank sin for that. Weeds come instead of 
herbs, Cockle and Darnel instead of Wheat, thank sin for that, Rom. 8. 
22. The whol Creature (or Creation) grones under vanity, either cannot 
do what it would or else misseth of that good and end it intended, 
breeds nothing but vanity, brings forth nothing but vexation, It crooks 
all things so as that none can straiten them, makes so many wants that 
none can supply them, Eccles. 1. 15. This makes crooked Servants in a 
family no man can rule them, crooked inhabitants in towns, crooked 
members in Congregations, ther’s no ordering nor joynting of them in 
that comly accord, and mutual subjection; know they said, the adversary 
sin hath done all this. Man was the mean betwixt God and the Creature 
to convey all good with all the constancy of it, and therefore when 
Man breaks, Heaven and Earth breaks all asunder, the Conduit being 
cracked and displaced there can be no conveyance from the Fountain. 

In regard of our selves, see we and consider nakedly the nature of sin, 
in Four particulars. | 

Its that which makes a separation between God and the soul, 
breaks that Union and Communion with God for which we were 
made, and in the enjoyment of which we should be blessed and happie, 
Isai. 59. 1. 2. Gods ear is not heavy that it cannot hear nor his hand that zt 
cannot help, but your iniquities have separated betwixt God and_you G your sins 
have hid his face that he wil not hear for he professeth, Psal. 5. 4. that he 1s a 
God that wills not wickedness neither shal iniquity dwell with him. Into the new 
Jerusalem shal no unclean thing enter, but without shal be doggs Rev. 21. 27. 
The Dogs to their Kennel, and Hogs to their Sty and Mire: but if an 


This World and the Next 297 


impenitent wretch should come into Heaven, the Lord would go out 
of Heaven; Iniquity shall not dwell with sin. That then that deprives me 
of my greatest good for which I came into the world, and for which I 
live and labor in the world, and without which I had better never to 
have been born; nay, that which deprives me of an universal good, a 
good that hath all good in it, that must needs be an evil, but have all 
evil in it: but so doth sin deprive me of God as the Object of my will, 
and that wills all good, and therefore it must bring in Truth all evil 
with it. Shame takes away my Honor, Poverty my Wealth, Persecution 
my Peace, Prison my Liberty, Death my Life, yet a man may still be a 
happy man, lose his Life, and live eternally: But sin takes away my 
God, and with him all good goes; Prosperity without God will be my 
poyson, Honor without him my bane; nay, the word without God 
hardens me, my endeavor without him profits nothing at all for my 
good. A Natural man hath no God in any thing, and therefore hath no 
good. 

It brings an incapability in regard of my self to receive good, and an 
impossibility in regard of God himself to work my spiritual good, while 
my sin Continues, and I Continue impenitent in it. An incapability of 
a spiritual blessing, Why trangress ye the Commandement of the Lord that ye 
cannot prosper do what ye can, 2 Chron. 24. 20. And He that being often 
reproved hardens his heart, shal be consumed suddenly and there 1s no remedy, 

He that spils the Physick that should cure him, the meat that should 
- nourish him, there is no remedy but he must needs dye, so that the 
Commission of sin makes not only a separation from God, but obstinate 
resistance and continuance in it, maintains an infinit and everlasting 
distance between God and the soul: So that so long as the sinful 
resistance of thy soul continues; God cannot vouchsafe the Comforting 
and guiding presence of his grace; because it’s cross to the Covenant of 
Grace he hath made, which he will not deny, and his Oath which he 
will not alter. So that should the Lord save thee and thy Corruption, 
carry thee and thy proud vnbeleeving heart to heaven he must nullify 
the Gospel, (Heb. 5. 9. He’s the Author of Salvation to them that obey him) 
and forswear himself, (Heb. 3. 18. He hath sworn unbeleevers shall not enter 
into his rest) he must cease to be just and holy, and so to be God. As Saul 
said to Jonathan concerning David, 1 Sam. 20. 30, 31. So long as the Son 
of Jesse lives, thou shalt not be established, nor thy Kingdom: So do thou 
plead against thy self, and with thy own soul; So long as these rebellious 
distempers continue, Grace and Peace, and the Kingdom of Christ can 
never be established in thy heart For this obstinate resistance differs 
nothing from the plagues of the state of the damned, when they come to 


298 The Puritans 


the highest measure, but that it is not yet total and final, there being 
some kind of abatement of the measure of it, and stoppage of the 
power of it. Imagine thou sawest the Lord Jesus coming in the clouds, 
and heardest the last trump blow, Arise ye dead, and come to judgment: 
Imagine thou sawest the Judg of all the World sitting upon the Throne, 
thousands of Angels before him, and ten thousands ministring unto him, 
the Sheep standing on his right hand, and the Goats at the left: Sup- 
pose thou heardest that dreadful Sentence, and final Doom pass from 
the Lord of Life (whose Word made Heaven and Earth, and will 
shake both) Depart from me ye cursed; How would thy heart shake and 
sink, and die within thee in the thought thereof, wert thou really 
perswaded it was thy portion? Know, that by thy dayly continuance in 
sin, thou dost to the utmost of thy power execute that Sentence upon 
thy soul: It’s thy life, thy labor, the desire of thy heart, and thy dayly 
practice to depart away from the God of all Grace and Peace, and turn 
the Tomb-stone of everlasting destruction upon thine own soul. 

It’s the Cause which brings all other evils of punishment into the 
World, and without this they are not evil, but so far as sin is in them. 
The sting of a trouble, the poyson and malignity of a punishment and 
affliction, the evil of the evil of any judgment, it is the sin that brings it, 
or attends it, Fer. 2. 19. Thine own wickedness shall correct thee, and thy back 
slidings shall reprove thee, know therefore that it is an evil, and bitter thing 
that thou hast forsaken the Lord. Jer. 4. 18. Thy waies and doings have pro- 
cured these things unto thee, therefore it 1s bitter, and reacheth unto the heart. 
Take miseries and crosses without sin, they are like to be without a sting, 
the Serpent without poyson, ye may take them, and make Medicines of 
them. So Paul 1 Cor. 15. 55. he plaies with death it self, sports with the 
Grave. Oh death, where 1s thy sting? Oh Grave where 1s thy Victory? the sting 
of death is sin. All the harmful annoyance in sorrows and punishments, 
further than either they come from sin, or else tend to it, they are rather 
improvements of what we have than parting with any thing we do 
enjoy, we rather lay out our conveniences than seem to lose them, yea, 
they encrease our Crown, and do not diminish our Comfort. Blessed are 
ye when men revile you, and persecute you, and speak all manner of evil of you 
for my sake, for great is your reward in Heaven: Matth. 5. 11. There is a 
blessing in persecutions and reproaches when they be not mingled 
with the deserts of our sins; yea, our momentary short affliction for a 
good cause, and a good Conscience, works an excessive exceeding 
weight of Glory. If then sin brings all evils, and makes all evils indeed 
to us, then is it worse than all those evils. | 

It brings a Curse upon all our Comforts, blasts all our blessings, 


This World and the Next | 299 


the best of all.our endeavors, the use of all the choycest of all Gods 
Ordinances: it’s so evil and vile, that it makes the use of all good 
things, and all the most glorious, both Ordinances and Improvements 
evil to us. Hag. 2. 13. 14. When the Question was made to the Priest; 
If one that is unclean by a dead Body touch any of the holy things, shall tt be 
unclean? And he answered, Yea. So is this People, and so 1s this Nation before 
me, saith the Lord; and so is every work of their hands, and that which they 
offer 1s unclean: If any good thing a wicked man had, or any action he 
did, might be good, or bring good to him, in reason it was the Services 
and Sacrifices wherein he did approach unto God, and perform Service 
to him, and yet the Sacrifice of the wicked 1s an abomination to the Lord, Prov. 
28. 9. and Tit. 1. 15. To the pure all things are pure; but to the unbeleeving 
there is nothing pure, but their very Consciences are defiled. It is a desperate 
Malignity in the temper of the Stomach, that should turn our Meat 
and diet into Diseases, the best Cordials and Preservatives into Poysons, 
so that what in reason is appointed to nourish a man should kill him. 
Such is the venom and malignity of sin, makes the use of the best 
things become evil, nay, the greatest evil to us many times; Psal. 109. 7. | 
Let his prayer be turned into sin. That which is appointed by God to be 
the choycest means to prevent sin, is turned into sin out of the corrupt 
distemper of these carnal hearts of ours. 

Hence then it follows; That sin is the greatest evil in the world, or indeed 
that can be. For,.'That which separates the soul from God, that which 
_ brings all evils of punishment, and makes all evils truly evil, and 
spoils all good things to us, that must needs be the greatest evil, but 
this is the nature of sin, as hath already appeared. 

But that which I will mainly press, is,.Sin is only opposite to God, 
and cross as much as can be to that infinite goodness and holiness 
which is in his blessed Majesty; it’s not the miseries or distresses that 
men undergo, that the Lord distasts them for, or estrangeth himself 
from them, he is with Joseph in the Prison, with the three Children in 
the Furnace, with Lazarus when he lies among the Dogs, and gathers 
the Crums from the rich Mans Table, yea with 7ob upon the dung-hil, 
but he is not able to bear the presence of sin: yea, of this temper are 
his dearest servants, the more of God is in them, the more opposite they 
are to sin where ever they find it. It was that he commended in the 
Church of Ephesus, That she could not bear those that were wicked, Rev. 2. 3. 
As when the Stomach is of a pure temper and good strength, the least 
surfet or distemper that befals, it presently distasts and disburdens it 
self with speed. So David noted to be a man after Gods own heart. He 
professeth, 101. Psal. 3. 7. I hate the work of them that turn aside, he that 


300 ~ The Puritans 


worketh deceit shall not dwell in my house, he that telleth lyes, shall not tarry in 
my sight. But when the heart becomes like the Stomach, so weak it 
cannot help it self, nor be helped by Physick, desperate diseases and 
dissolution of the whol follows, and in reason must be expected. Hence 
see how God looks at the least connivance, or a faint and feeble kind 
of opposition against sin, as that in which he is most highly dishonored, 
and he follows it with most hideous plagues, as that indulgent carriage 
of Ely towards the vile behavior of his Sons for their grosser evils, 
1 Sam. 2. 23. Why do you such things, It’s not well my Sons that I hear such 
_ things: It is not well, and is that all? why, had they either out of ignorance 
not known their duty or out of some sudden surprisal of a temptation 
neglected it, it had not been well, but for them so purposedly to proceed 
on in the practice of such gross evils, and for him so faintly to reprove: 
The Lord leoks at it as a great sin thus feebly to oppose sin, and 
therefore verse 29. he tells him, That he honored his Sons above God, and 
therefore he professeth, Far be it from me to maintain thy house and comfort, 
Sor he that honors me I wil honor, and he that despiseth me shall be lightly 
esteemed, verse 30. Hence it is the Lord himself is called the holy one of 
Israel, 1. Hab. 12. Who is of purer eyes than to behold evil, and cannot look 
upon iniquity, no not in such as profess themselves Saints, though most 
deer unto him, no, nor in his Son the Lord Jesus, not in his Saints, 
Amos, 8. 7. The Lord hath sworn by himself, I abhor the excellency of Jacob; 
what ever their excellencies, their priviledges are, if they do not 
abhor sin, God will abhor them, Jer. 22. 24. Though Coniah was as the 
Szgnet of my right hand, thence would I pluck him. Nay, he could not endure 
the appearance of it in the Lord Christ, for when but the reflection of 
sin (as I may so say) fell upon our Savior, even the imputation of our 
transgressions to him, though none iniquity was ever committed by 
him, the Father withdrew his comforting presence from him, and let 
loose his infinite displeasure against him, forcing him to cry out, My 
God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? 

Yea, Sin is so evil, (that though it be in Nature, which is the good 
Creature of God) that there is no good in it, nothing that God will 
own; but in the evil of punishment it is otherwise, for the torments 
of the Devils, and punishments of the damned in Hell, and all the 
plagues inflicted upon the wicked upon Earth, issue from the righteous 
and revenging Justice of the Lord, and he doth own such execution 
as his proper work, Isa. 45. 7. Is there any evil in the City, viz. of punish- 
ment, and the Lord hath not done it? I make peace, I create evil, I the Lord 
do all these things: It issues from the Justice of God that he cannot but 
reward every one according to his own waies and works; those are 


This World and the Next 301 


a mans own, the holy one of Israel hath no hand in them; but he is 
the just Executioner of the plagues that are inflicted and suffered for 
these; and hence our blessed Savior becoming our Surety, and stand- 
ing in our room, he endured the pains of the Second death, even the 
fierceness of the fury of an offended God; and yet it was impossible 
he could commit the least sin, or be tainted with the least corrupt 
distemper. And it’s certain it’s better to suffer all plagues without 
any one sin, than to commit the least sin, and to be freed from all 
plagues. Suppose that all miseries and sorrows that ever befel all the 
wicked in Earth and Hell, should meet together in one soule, as all 
waters gathered together in one Sea: Suppose thou heardest the Devils 
roaring, and sawest Hell gaping, and flames of everlasting burnings 
flashing before thine eyes; it’s certain it were better for thee to be 
cast into those inconceivable torments than to commit the least sin 
against the Lord: Thou dost not think so now, but thou wilt find it 
so one day. 


MEDITATION 


EDITATION is a serious intention of the mind whereby wee come to search 
M out the truth, and settle wt effectually upon the heart. 

An intention of the mind; when one puts forth the strength of their 
understanding about the work in hand, takes it as an especial task 
whereabout the heart should be taken up and that which wil require 
the whol man, and that to the bent of the best ability he hath, so 
the word is used Jos. 1. 8. thou shalt not suffer the word to depart out of thy 
mind, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, when either the word 
would depart away or our corruptions would drive it away, medita- 
tion layes hold upon it and wil not let it go, but exerciseth the strength 
of the attention of his thoughts about it, makes a buisiness of it as 
that about which he might do his best, and yet fals short of what 
he should do in it. So David when he would discover where the stream 
and overflowing strength of his affections vented themselves, he points 
at this practice as that which employes the mind to the ful. Psal 119. 
197. Oh how I love thy law, it 1s my meditation all the day, love is the great 
wheel of the soul that sets al on going, and how doth that appear? 
it is my meditation day and night; the word in the original signifyeth 
to swim, a man spreads the breadth of his understanding about that 
work, and layes out himself about the service wherein there is both 
difficulty and worth. 

Sertous.| Meditation is not a flourishing of a mans wit, but hath a 
set bout at the search of the truth, beats his brain as wee use to say, 


302 The Puritans 


hammers out a buisiness, as the Gouldsmith with his mettal, he heats 
it and beats it turnes it on this side and then on that, fashions it on 
both that he might frame it to his mind; meditation is hammering 
of a truth or poynt propounded, that he may carry and conceive the 
frame and compass in his mind, not salute a truth as we pass by oc- 
casionally but solemnly entertain it into our thoughts; Not look upon | 
a thing presented as a spectator or passenger that goes by: but lay 
other things aside, and look at this as the work and employment for 
the present to take up our minds. It’s one thing in our diet to take a 
snatch and away, another thing to make a meal, and sit at it on 
purpose until wee have seen al set before us and we have taken our 
fil of al, so we must not cast an eye or glimpse at the truth by 
some sudden or fleighty apprehension, a snatch and away, but we 
must make a meal of musing. Therefore the Psalmist makes it the 
main trade that a Godly man drives, professedly opposite to the car- 
riage of the wicked, whether in his outward or inward work, in his 
disposition or expression of himself in his common practice; whereas 
they walk in the corrupt counsels of their own hearts, stand in the 
way of sinners, not only devise what is naught, but practice and per- 
severe in what they have devised, and sit in the seat of the scorners; 
A blessed man his rode in which he travels, his set trade he meditates 
in the Law of God day and night: that is the counsel in which he walks, 
the way in which he stands, the seat in which he sits. Look at this 
work as a branch of our Christian calling, not that which is left to 
our liberty, but which is of necessity to be attended and that in good 
earnest as a Christian duty, which God requires, not a little available 
to our spiritual welfare. 

The end is doubly expressed in the other part of the description. 

1. The searching of the truth. 

2. The effectual setling of it upon the heart. 

The search of the truth: Meditation is a coming in with the truth or 
any cause that comes to hand, that we may enquire the ful state of it 
before our thoughts part with it, so that we see more of it or more 
clearly and fully than formerly we did, this is one thing in that of the 
Prophet Hos. 6. 3. Then shall yee know 1f you follow on to know, when we 
track the footsteps of the truth, in al the passages, until we have 
viewed the whol progresse of it, from truth to truth from point to 
point. This it 1s to dig for wisdom, Prov. 2. 2. When men have found a 
mine or a veyn of Silver, they do not content themselves, to take that 
which is uppermost and next at hand within sight which offers it self 
upon the surface of the Earth, but they dig further as hoping to find 

\ 


This World and the Next 303 


more, because they see somewhat. So meditation rests not in what 
presents it self to our consideration, but digs deeper gathers in upon 
the truth, and gaynes more of it then did easily appear at the first, 
and this it doth. 

1. When it recals things formerly past, sets them in present view before 
our consideration and judgment Meditation sends a mans thoughts afar 
off, cals over and revives the fresh apprehension of things done long 
before, marshals them al in rank together, brings to mind such things 
which were happily quite out of memory, & gone from a man, which 
might be of great use and special help to discover our condition ac- 
cording to the quality of it; may be Conscience starts the considera- 
tion but of one sin, but meditation looks abroad, and brings to hand 
many of the same, and of the like kind and that many dayes past and 
long ago committed, This distemper now sticks upon a man and brings 
him under the arrest of Conscience and the condemnation thereof. 
But saies meditation let me mind you of such and such sins at such 
and ‘such times, in such and such companies, committed and mul- 
tiplyed both more and worse than those that now appear so loathsom 
and so troublesom to you; meditation is as it were the register and 
remembrancer, that looks over the records of our daily corruptions, 
and keeps them upon file, and brings them into court and fresh con- 
sideration Job. 13. 26. Thou makest me to possess the sins of my youth: 
This makes a man to renew the sins of his youth, makes them fresh 
in our thoughts, as though new done before our eyes. This Inter- 
preters make the meaning of that place Job. 14. 17. My trangression 
is sealed up in a bag, and thou sewest up mine iniquity, though God do thus, 
yet he doth it by this means in the way of his Providence, i.e. by 
recounting and recalling our corruptions to mind, by serious medita- 
tion we sew them all up together, we look back to the linage and 
pedegree of our lusts, and track the abominations of our lives, step 
by step, until we come to the very nest where they are hatched and 
bred, even of our original corruption, and body of death, where they 
had their first breath and being, links al our distempers together from 
our infancy to our youth, from youth to riper age, from thence to 
our declining daies. So David, from the vileness of his present lusts 
is led to the wickedness in which he was warmed, Psal. 51. 5. This was 
typed out in the old Law by the chewing of the cud; Meditation cals 
over again those things that were past long before, and not within a 
mans view and consideration. 

Meditation takes a special Survey of the compass of our present condition, 
and the Nature of those corruptions that come to be considered: It’s the travers- 


304 | The Puritans 


ing of a mans thoughts, the coasting of the mind and imagination into 
every crevis and corner, pryes into every particular, takes a special 
view of the borders and confines of any corruption or condition that 
comes to be scanned, Psal. 119. 59. I considered my wates, and turned my 
feet unto thy testimonies; he turned them upside down, looked through 
them as it were; a present apprehension peeps in as it were through 
the crevis or key-hole, looks in at the window as a man passeth by; 
but Meditation lifts up the latch and goes into each room, pries into 
every corner of the house, and surveyes the composition and making 
of it, with all the blemishes in it. Look as the Searcher at the Sea- 
Port, or Custom-house, or Ships, satisfies himself not to over-look 
carelessly in a sudden view, but unlocks every Chest, romages every 
corner, takes a light to discover the darkest passages. So is it with 
Meditation, it observes the woof and web of wickedness, the ful frame 
of it, the very utmost Selvage and out-side of it, takes into considera- 
tion all the secret conveyances, cunning contrivements, all bordering 
circumstances that attend the thing, the consequences of it, the nature 
of the causes that work it, the several occasions and provocations that 
lead to it, together with the end and issue that in reason is like to 
come of it, Dan. 12. 4. Many shall run to and fro, and knowledg shall 
encrease: Meditation goes upon discovery, toucheth at every coast, ob- 
serves every creek, maps out the dayly course of a mans conversation 
and disposition. 

The second End of Meditation is, It settles at effectually upon the heart. 
It’s not the pashing of the water at a sudden push, but the standing 
and soaking to the root, that loosens the weeds and thorns, that they 
may be plucked up easily. It’s not the laying of Oyl upon the be- 
nummed part, but the chafing of it in, that suppleth the Joynts, and 
easeth the pain. It is so in the soul; Application laies the Oyl of the 
Word that is searching and savory, Meditation chafeth it in, that it 
may soften and humble the hard and stony heart: Application is 
like the Conduit or Channel that brings the stream of the Truth upon 
the soul; but Meditation stops it as it were, and makes it soak into 
the heart, that so our corruptions may be plucked up kindly by the 
Roots. 

This settling upon the heart appears in a three-fold work. 

It affects the heart with the Truth attended, and leaves an Impression 
upon the Spirit answerable to the Nature of the thing which is taken 
into Meditation: 2 Pet. 2. 8. It’s said of Lot, in seeing and hearing, he 
vexed his righteous soul. Many saw and heard the hideous abominations, 
and were not touched nor affected therewith. No more had he been, 


This World and the Next 305 


but that he vexed and troubled his own righteous soul, because he 
was driven to a dayly consideration of them which cut him to the 
quick. The word is observable, it signifies to try by a touch-stone, 
and to examine, and then upon search to bring the soul upon the 
rack: therefore the same word is used, Matth. 14. 24. The Ship was 
tossed by the waves; the consideration of the abominations of the place 
raised a tempest of trouble in Lots righteous soul. This the wise man 
calls laying to the heart, Eccles. 7. 1, 2. It’s better to go to the house of mourn- 
ing than to the house of laughter; for this is the end of all men, and the living 
will lay it to his heart. When the Spectacle of Misery and Mortality is 
laid in the grave, yet savory Meditation laies it to a mans heart, and 
makes it real there in the work of it. The Goldsmith observes that it 
is not the laying of the fire, but the blowing of it that melts the Mettal: 
So with Meditation, it breaths upon any Truth that is applied, and 
that makes it really sink and soak into the soul; and this is the reason 
why in an ordinary and common course of Providence, and Gods 
dealing with sinners, (leaving his own exceptions to his own good 
pleasure) that the most men in the time and work of Conversion have 
that scorn cast upon them, that they grow melancholly. And it’s true thus 
far in the course of ordinary appearance; The Lord usually never 
works upon the soul by the Ministry of the Word to make it effectual, 
but he drives the sinner to sad thoughts of heart, and makes him keep 
an audit in his own soul by serious meditation, and pondering of his 
waies; otherwise the Word neither affects throughly, nor works kindly 
upon him. 

It keeps the heart under the heat and authority of the Truth that it’s taken 
up withal, by constant attendance of his thoughts. Meditation keeps the Con- 
science under an arrest, so that it cannot make an escape from the 
Evidence and Authority of the Truth, so that there is no way, but 
either to obey the Rule of it, or else be condemned by it. But escape 
it cannot, Meditation meets and stops al the evasions and sly pre- 
tences the fals-hearted person shal counterfeit. If a man should deny 
his fault, and himself guilty, Meditation will evidence it beyond all 
gainsaying, by many testimonies which Meditation wil easily cal to 
mind; remember ye not in such and such a place: upon such an oc- 
casion, you gave way to your wicked heart to do thus and thus; you 
know it, and God knows it, and I have recorded it: If the sinner would 
lessen his fault, Meditation aggravates it; or if he seem to slight it, 
and look at it as a matter of no moment, yet Meditation will make 
- it appear, there is greater evil in it, and greater necessity to bestow 
his thoughts upon it than he is aware of. 


306 7 The Puritans 


Hence it is Meditation laies siege unto the soul, and cuts off al carnal 
pretences that a wretched self-deceiving hypocrite would relieve him- 
self by; and stil lies at the soul, this you did, at that time, in that place, 
after that manner; so that the soul is held fast prisoner, and cannot 
make an escape; but as David said, Psal. 51. 3. My sins are ever before 
me: Consideration keeps them within view, and will not suffer them 
to go out of sight and thoughts; and therefore it is Paul joyns those 
two together, 1 Tim. 3. 15. Meditate in these things, and be in them. 

It provokes a man (by a kind of over-bearing power) to the practice 


of that with which he is so affected: A settled and serious Meditation 


of any thing, is as the setting open of the Flood-gates, which carries 
the soul with a kind of force and violence, to the performance of what 
he so bestows his mind upon; as a mighty stream let out turns the mill. 
Phil. 4. 9. Think of these things, and do them: thinking men are doing 
men. Psal. 39. 3. While I was thus musing, the fire brake out, and I spake: 
the busie stirring of Meditation is like the raising of a tempest in the 
heart, that carries out all the actions of the man by an uncontroulable 
command. I considered my waies, and turned my feet unto thy Statutes: right 
Consideration, brings in a right Reformation with it. 


WANDERING THOUGHTS 


we Marriner, because the Channel is narrow, and the wind som- 
what scant, he toucheth in many places, tacks about, and fetcheth 
many points, but stil because it’s to attain the Haven; therfore each 
man in reason concludes, that was the cause that invited him to al 
that variety in his course. It’s so in the carriage of the soul; the cause 
why a man fetcheth such a compass, and tacks about in his own con- 
trivements; now this, now that; one while one way, another while 
this or that presented and pursued busily; yet in the issue we land al 
our thoughts, and look at the last how to bring in content to such a 
lust: It’s certain the vanity of that lust occasioned and drew the vanity 
of thy thoughts after it. 

The cause being thus conceived, the Cure is fair and easie to com- 
prehend; namely, Cure these inordinate and raging lusts, and thence wil 
follow a stil and quiet composure of mind; purge the stomach if it 
be foul, and that wil ease the pain of wind in the Head, because that 
is caused by the fumes that arise from thence. Take off the plummet, 
or lessen but the weight of it, the minutes though they hurried never 
so fast before, yet wil not move at all, or at least very slowly and quietly. 


So here, take off the poyse of the affections, purge away these noysom_, 


This World and the Next 307 


lusts which carry and command the head, and send up dunghil steams 
which distemper the mind, and disturb it, and those windy imagina- 
tions wil cease, and those thoughts of the mind like the minutes, either 
wil not move, or move in order and manner as may help and not 
hinder. Here the great skil and care ought to be to labor the clensing 
and sanctification of such affections which are most tainted, and where 
the vein and sourse of original corruption, either through custom, or 
constitution, or company, hath vented it self most usually, and so 
hath taken up the soul, and gained, and so exercised greater power 
over it. For as in bruised or weak parts, all the humors run thither, 
so commonly this corruption is the sink and drain of the soul, all 
distempered thoughts, and other inferior lusts, empty themselves, and 
become Servants unto this. If once the affections had gained such a 
tast and rellish of the sweetness that is in Christ, and his Truth, that 
al these baggage and inferior things here below seemed sapless, and 
that the heart were endeared to him & his Truth, and carried strongly 
after both: this would carry the thoughts vehemently, & keep them 
so strongly to both, that they would be so far from wandring away 
from Christ, that they would not be taken from bestowing the strength 
of their intentions about him, Psal. 119 97. Oh how I love thy Law, it 
1s my Meditation all the day; verse 93. I will never forget thy Precepts, for 
thereby thou hast quickened me; ver. 23. Princes sate and spake against me, 
- but thy servant did meditate in thy Statutes. In reason he would have con- 
ceived it was high time for him to bethink himself how to prevent 
their fury, & it would cost him sad thoughts of heart how to pro- 
vide for his succor and safty; no truly, Thy servant did meditate in thy 
law. 

Possess thy heart with an actual consideration, and a holy dread of the 
glorious presence of the Almighty, who sees and pondereth all thy paths, 
and therefore wil take an account, and that strictly, of all the out- 
strainings of thy thoughts when thou comest to give attendance upon 
him, and to draw neer into his presence, in some peculiar and spiritual 
Service: There is a kind of heedless wantonness which like a Canker 
breeds in our Atheistical dispositions, whereby we see not the Rule 
that should guide us, we lay aside also the consideration of that power 
that doth rule us, and wil bring us to judgment, and so missing the 
guide that should shew us the path, and the power that should awe 
us, and constrain us to keep the rode, a mans mind powrs out it self 
to every vanity that next offers it self unto its view. Whereas were we 
aware of his presence, and awed with it, it would cause us to eye him, 
and attend him in his way and work, wherein he commands us to 


308 The Puritans 


walk with him. As it is with trewantly Schollers who are sporting and 
gaming out of their place, and from any serious attendance upon their 
books, when nothing wil stil them, and force them to their studies, 
as soon as ever there is but the least inkling of the Master, or any 
eye they can cast upon his approach, they are all as stil as may be, 
repair presently to their place, fal close, and let their minds to their 
work; O Master, Master, our Master is yonder; there follows stilness 
and attendance presently. Our trewantly and wanton minds are of 
this temper, we are apt to straggle out of our places, or from giving 
attendance to those special Services which the Lord cals for at our 
hands, and to lay out themselves upon things that are not per- 
tinent, and further than we are awed with the apprehension of Gods 
sight and presence, who cals for the dayly attendance of our thoughts 
when we draw neer unto him, doth see and observe our carelessness, 
and wil proceed in Judgment, and execute punishment upon us for 
it, it’s scant possible to hold the bent of our thoughts awfull, to the 
business we have in hand. It was the Curse which attended Jonah 
when he departed away from the presence of the Lord, and from 
following his Command, he followed lying vanities, Jonah, 2. 8. And 
it’s the peculiar plague which is appointed in the way of Providence, 
and the Lords righteous proceedings to befal al who bestow not their 
hearts upon him, Eph. 4. 21. They walk in the vanity of their minds; 
and the reason is rendred, they are strangers from the life of God. When 
our thoughts start aside from under the Government of Gods Wisdom, 
the Rule of Truth and stability, they wander up and down in the 
waies of error and vanity, and find no end or measure, follow vanity, 
and become vain, nor can they attain any stability before they return 
thither. As your vagabond beggars, and vagrant persons in the Country 
from whence we came, there is no possibility to fasten them to any 
imployment, or settle them in any place before they come under the 
eye of Authority, and power of the Magistrate. So fares it with our 
vagabond and vagrant thoughts; further than they are under the eye 
of God, and awed with his presence, it’s not possible to stop them 
from the pursuit of vanity, or confine them to setled consideration 
of that which concerns our duty and comfort. The Rule is one, like 
it self accompanied with stability and rest; if once we go astray from 
that, there is neither end nor quiet in error, but restlessness and 
emptiness. The Sea, while it keeps the Channel, the course is known, 
and the Marriners can tel how to advantage their passage; but if once 
it exceeds the banks, no man can tel whither it wil go, or where it 
will stay. Our imaginations are like the vast Sea, while we eye the 


This World and the Next | 309 


Rule, and are ordered by the Authority of it, we know our compass; 
but once go off, and we know not whither we shal go, or where we 
shal stay. 

Be watchfully careful to observe the first wandrings and out-strayings of thy 
thoughts, how they first go off from the attendance to the work in 
hand, and look off from the matter, thou settest thy self to meditate 
in; immediately recal them back, bring them to their task again, and 
set them about their intended work. If often they fly out and follow 
fresh occasions that Satan or a mans corruptions shal suggest take 
them at the first turn and often again settle them upon the service, 
until at last by constant custom our mind and thoughts wil buckle 
handsomly to their business, after they be kept in by a daily care; 
I have heard Hunts-men say when they have young dogs, raw and 
that hath not been entred nor accquainted with their sport, if a 
fresh game come in view, or some other unexpected prey cross them 
in their way, they forsake the old sent and follow that which is in 
their eye, but their manner is to beat them off, and cal them away 
from that, and then to bring them to the place where they left their 
former pursuit, and there set them to find the sent afresh, until at 
last being often checked and constantly trayned up they wil take 
and attend the first game, so here, with our wandring minds which 
are not trayned up to this work of meditation, if they begin to fly off 
and follow a new occasion, suffer not thy thoughts to range, but bring 
your mind back again, and set it upon the former service, and then 
by thy constant care and Gods blessing thy mind wil fal in sweetly 
and go away with the work, or as men use to do with some kind of 
wand that is warped & bent somwhat much one way, they bend it 
a little, at the first & there hold it. Bend it & hold it, at last it comes 
fully to the fashion they desire it. So here often bend and hold thy 
mind bent to the work in hand, Heb. 2. 1. let us give earnest heed to the 
things wee have heard; our roving thoughts are like riven vessels, if the 
parts be not glewed and the breaches brought together again by strong 
hand, they wil leak out, so here &c. 


REPENTANT SINNERS AND THEIR MINISTERS 


oct. They whose hearts are pierced by the Ministry of the word, 
D they are carryed with love and respect to the Ministers of it. 
Men and Brethren, they be words of honor & love, & they spoke 
them seriously and: affectionaley, they mocked them before, and they 
now embrace them, they cared not what tearms of reproach they cast 


310 | The Puritans 


upon their persons, they know not now what titles of love and tender- 
ness to put upon them, they now fal at their feet as clients, who flouted 
them before as enemies, so it was with the jalour Acts 16. 30, 31, 34. 
how kindly doth he Paul and Silas whome erewhile he handled so 
currishly, beyond the bounds of reason and humanity, he entertains 
them in the best room of his house who before thought the worst 
place in the prison too good for them. He baths their wounded parts 
which he had whipped and stocked before, fears and trembles before 
them as his counsellors, whom he handled most harshly before as 
Prisoners; he feasts them as his guests whom he had struck as Male- 
factors; the wind was in another dore, the man is of another mind 
yea is another man than he was. God had no sooner opened the heart 
of Lydia to attend the word but her affections were exceedingly en- 
larged, towards the dispensers thereof. Acts 16. 15. so that the cords 
of her loving invitation led Paul and held him captive, he professed 
she compelled them i.e. by her loving and affectionate expressions, pre- 
vailed with them for a stay. And while Paul had the Galathians under 
the Pangs of the new birth and Christ was now forming in them, they 
professed they would have plucked out their eyes and have given them to 
the Apostle, Gal. 4. 15. 

Naaman hath no sooner his leprosy healed, and his heart humbled 
and cut off from his corruption, but he professed himself and what 
he had is at the devotion of the Prophet, and that not out of comple- 
ment but in truth, 2 Aings 5. 15. Take a blessing from thy servant. 

Reasons are two. 

They see and know more than formerly they did, when happily the crooked 
counsels of others deceived them, and their own carnal reason couzened 
and deluded their own souls that they mis-judged the men and their 
doctrine also. As that they did not speak the truth, or else had some 
crooked and self-seeking ends in what they spak; As either to gratify 
other mens humors whom they would please or else to set up their 
own persons and praise and esteem in the apprehensions of others as 
singular men and more than of an ordinary frame; and therefore 
would wind men up to such a high pitch of holiness, and force them 
to such a singular care to fly the very appearance of al evil, when 
its more than needs and more than God requires, and more than any 
man can do but now they find by proof and are forced out of their 
own sence and feeling to acknowledg the truth of what they have 
spoken, and what they have heard, & themselves also, to be the 
faithful embassadors of the Lord Jesus, and therefore worthy to be 
believed and attended in their dispensations and honored of al. So 


This World and the Next ied ord 


Paul 2 Cor. 4. 3. We hope we are made manifest unto your consciences Thus 
the Woman of Samaria when our Savior came home to the quick and 
met with the secrets of her heart, she then fel from her taunting and 
slighting of our Savior to admiring of him, Come faith she behould the 
man. that told me al that ever I did, is not he the Christ. John, 4. 29. Look 
as Nabuchadnezzar said, Dan. 4. last, now I know the God of Daniel is 
the true God, and now I praise the living God, so when they have been 
in the fire, and God hath had them upon the anvil, now I know 
what sin is, now I know what the danger is, now I know what necessity 
there is to part with sin; when the Patient hath found the relation 
and direction of the Physitian hath proved real it makes him prize 
and honor his skil and counsel, for ever; and for ever to have his 
custom, As the Pythonist was compelled from the power of Pauls ad- 
ministration to confess, these are the Servants re the living God which shew 
unto us the way of Salvation, so here. 

As they see more and can therefore judge better of the worth of 
persons and things; so their conscience now hath more scope, and the light 
of reason hath more liberty, and allowance to express that they know, and nothing 
now can withstand and hinder; for while men are held captive under the ; 
power of their lusts and corruptions of their hearts, in which they live, 
and which for the while they are resolved to follow; though their reason 
happily do yeild it, and their own hearts and Consciences cannot but 
inwardly confess it, the persons are holy, the sins are vile which they 
condemn, and dangers dreadful which they forewarn; yet to profess 
so much openly to others, and to the world were to judg themselves 
while they would acquit others, and condemn their own courses, while 
they should praise and honor the carriages and persons of others, and 
therefore darken the evidence of the word by carnal cavils and re- 
proaches, stifle the wittness of Conscience, and stop its mouth that it 
cannot speak out. Thus Rom. 1. 18. they hold down the truth in unrighteous- 
ness. When the truth that is by their judgments assented unto, and 
by their hearts yeilded, and therefore should break out and give in 
testimony to the good wayes of God: their corrupt and unrighteous 
and rebellious hearts hold it prisoner, wil not suffer it either to appear 
unto others or prevail with themselves; As it fared with the Scribes 
& Pharisees when the wonder was wrought by Peter, say they Acts, 4. 
16. that indeed a notable miracle hath been done by them is manifest to all that 
dwel in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it (q. d. they would have done it 
if they could) but that it spread no further, let us charge them strattly that 
they speak no more in this name. But here when the conscience of a poor 
sinner is convinced, and the heart wounded, and that resistance and 


sic The Puritans 


gainsaying distemper is taken off and crushed, now Conscience is in 
commission and hath his scope & the coast is now clear that reason 
may be heard, now the broken hearted sinner wil speak plainly, these 
are the guides that God hath set up, their direction I wil attend, these 
are the dear and faithful servants of the Lord whom I must honor, 
and with them I would betrust my soul, not with the blind guides, 
and false teachers, who daub with untempered morter and are not 
trustie to God, nor their own souls, and therefore cannot be to me. 
Oh send for such though in their life time they could not endure the 
sight, abide the presence, nor allow them a good word, reviled their ' 
persons and proceedings and professions, (yea that they wil confess) 
but it was directly against their own judgment and knowledg and 
Conscience, myne own heart often gave my tongue the lye, when I 
did so speak and so disparage their conversation, otherwise I must 
have condemned mine own course and Conscience also, but the Lord 
is with them, and the truth is with them, and a Blessing wil undoubtedly 
follow them. Ask why these poor pierced sinners did not go to the 
Scribes, they would tel the truth. Oh it was they that deceived us, 
led and drew us to the commission of this hellish wickedness; we cannot 
cal them teachers but murtherers, they could never help themselves, 
therefore not help us. 

INsTRUCTION, -Sound contrition and brokenness of heart brings a strange 
& a sudden alteration into the world, varies the price and valew of things and 
persons beyond imagination, turnes the market upside down;.makes the things 
appear as they be, & the persons to be honored and respected as 
they are in truth, that look what the truth determines, reason approves, 
and Conscience witnesseth, that account is current in the hearts and 
apprehensions of those, whose hearts have been pierced with godly 
sorrow for their sins. Because such judg not by outward appearance 
as it is the guise of men of corrupt minds, but upon experience, that 
which they have found and felt in their own hearts, what they have 
seen and judged in their own spirits, they cannot but see so and 
judg so of others. ‘Those who were mocked as men ful of new wine, are 
now the precious servants of the Lord, flouted to their faces not long 
since, now they attend them, honor and reverence them, yea fal at 
their very feet. It was before men and drunkards, now men and 
bretheren, the world you see is wel amended but strangely altered. 
It was said of John Baptist the fore-runner of our Savior, and the 
scope of whose doctrine was mainly to prepare the way for the Lord, 
it’s said of him that Elias is come and hath reformed al, set a new 
face and frame in the profession of the Gospel, Math. 17. 11. Turned 


This World and the Next 13 


the disobedient to the wisdom of the just men, the hearts of children to the fathers, 
that though they were so degenerate that Abraham would not own 
them had he been alive, yet when the Ministery of John had hammered 
and melted them for the work of our Savior, they bcame to be wholly 
altered, their judgments altered and their carriage also. For in truth 
the reason why men see not the loathsomness of other mens sins, or 
else have not courage to pass a righteous sentence upon them, It is 
because they were never convinced to see the Plague sore of their 
own corruptions, never had their hearts affected with the evil of them 
in their own experience but their own Conscience was misled out of 
authority, and stifled that it durst not outwardly condemn that which 
inwardly they could not but approve. They therefore who either do 
not see their own evil, or dare not proceed in open judgment to con- 
demn, they wil either not see or not pass a righteous judgment upon 
others, so Paul intimates to Agrippa, Acts, 26. 8. 9. let it not seem strange 
Oh King for I my self did think I should do many things against the name 
of jesus, which I also did. q. d. whiles thou so continuest thou wilt see 
as I did, and do as I did, but after God had entered into combate 
with him and spoken dreadfully to his soul see, he is another man, 
and of another mind; he destroyed the Churches, now takes care of them; 
he that hated the name and Gospel of Jesus counts al things dung and 
dross for the excellent knowledg of Jesus, the world is well amended but 
its mervailously altered, and therfore we have found this man a Pestilent 
fellow Acts, 17. 16. he hath subdued the state of the world. 

TERROR, this shewes the dreadful and miserable condition of al those who 
after al the light that hath been let into their minds, conviction into their Con- 
sciences, horror into their hearts touching the evils that have been committed 
and come now to be discovered unto them, they loath the light that hath layd 
open their evils, distast those persons and preachers and Christians most, that 
have dealt most plainly to descover the loathsomness of their distempers, it 
shewes the irrecoverable corruption of the mind and heart that grows 
worst under the best means, and cleaves most to its sins under al the 
choycest means that would pluck their sins from their heart, and their 
heart from them, they are either fools or mad men that cannot endure 
the presence of the Physitian without whose help they could not be 
cured. This is made an evidence of the estrangment of Gods heart 
from a people, and an immediate fore-runner of their ruin. Isa. 9. 
13. 14. 17. For this people turneth not unto him that smote them, neither do 
they seek the Lord, therefore the Lord wil cut off from Israel head & tail, 
branch G rush, one day therfore the Lord shal have no pity on their young 
men nor mercy on their fatherless, for every one is an Hipocrite. It takes away 


314 | The Puritans 


al pity in God, al hopes in themselves of any good. After Pharoah 
had many qualmes & recoylings of spirit by Moses dealing with him, 
& the miracles which he had wrought for his repentance, & at last 
sides it with the hellish stiffness of his own stubborn heart, so that he 
cannot endure the speech or presence of Moses any more, Exod. to. 
28. get thee from me, see my face no more, for the day thou seest my face thou 
shalt die, God sends Moses no more, but sends his plagues to destroy 
his first born he wil not see the face of Moses:he shal feel the fierceness 
of the wrath of the Lord. 


JOHN COTTON, 1584-1652 


[For Cotton’s life see p. 207. Cotton’s sermons are perfect examples 
of the Puritan ideal of the plain style. Restrained and self-possessed, 
meticulously logical and rigorously organized, they stay close to the 
texts, and use hardly any metaphors or figures but those supplied by 
the Bible itself. 

The texts of the first two selections are from The New Covenant, or 
A Treatise, unfolding the order and manner of the giving and receiving of the 
Covenant of Grace to the Elect (London, 1654), pp. 44-47, 64-69. 

The texts of the third and fourth selections are from The way of Life 
(London, 1641), pp. 104-105, 436-451. These sermons were probably 
delivered in England. 

The text of the fifth selection is from Christ the Fountaine (London, 


1651), pp. 15-21, 25-30.] 


SWINE AND GOATS 


LL THE men in the world are divided into two ranks, Godly or 

Ungodly, Righteous or Wicked; of wicked men two sorts, some 

are notoriously wicked, others are Hopocrites: Of Hypocrites two sorts 

(and you shall find them in the Church of God) some are washed Swine, 
others are Goats. 

1. The Swine are those of whom our Saviour Christ saith, That 
they returne unto their wallowing in the mire; like unto these are such men 
who at the hearing of some Sermon have been stomach sick of their 
sins, and have rejected their wicked courses, but yet the swines heart 
remaineth in them, as a Swine when he cometh where the puddle is, 
will readily lye down in it: so will these men wallow in the puddle of 
uncleannesse when their conscience is not pricked for the present: But 
these are a grosser kind of Hypocrites. | 


This World and the Next 315 


2. There is another sort that goe far beyond these, and they are 
Goats, so called, Matth. 25. 32, 33. and these are clean Beasts such as 
chew the cudd, meditate upon Ordinances, and they divide the hoofe, 
they live both in a generall and particular calling, and will not be 
idle; they are also fit for sacrifice; what then is wanting? Truly they 
are not sheep all this while, they are but Goats, yet a Goat doth loath 
that which a Swine will readily break into; but where then doe they 
fall short of the nature of sheep? A difference there is, which standeth 
principally in these particulars. 

1. The Goat is of a Capricious nature, and affecteth Eminency, 
his gate also is stately, Prov. 30. 30. Agur reckoneth the He-goat among 
the 4 things that are comely in going: And they are full of Ambition, 
they cannot abide swamps and holes, but will be climbing upon the 
tops of mountains; there is not that plain lowly sheepish frame that 
attendeth unto the voyce of the Shepheard, to be led up and downe 
in fresh pastures: they attend upon their ends, and will outshoot God 
in his own Bowe, and therefore when they have done many things for 
Christ, he will say unto them, Depart from me, ye workers of iniquity. 
More Eminency they did affect, then they were guided unto. Thus 
it was with Jehu, who in his zeal for God thought to promote himselfe, 
and herein he will not be perswaded of his sin, and therefore going 
into crooked wayes, he cometh at length to cleave unto the sins of 
Jeroboam the Son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin; yet notwithstanding, 
you may rec[é€]ive a Goat into Church-fellowship for all his capricious 
nature, and he will be a clean creature, and of much good use. The 
five foolish Mat. 25. 2. were all of them Virgins, all of them abhorring 
Idolatry, and all go forth to meet the Bridegroome, and yet they are 
foolish and never shall you make them wise, to be all for Christ, onely 
hearing and obeying his voyce. 

2. ‘They are of a Rankish nature all of them, specially the old Goats 
will have an unsavory relish, far from that pleasant sweetnesse that 
is in a sheep; and herein Hypocrites are greatly different from the 
sheep of Christ, as the Prophet speaketh, Ezek. 34. 21. and they marre 
the Pastures with their feet, and will be at length mudling the faire 
waters of the Sanctuary also; and in your best sanctification they fall 
far short of a sheep-like frame of spirit, diligently to heare the voyce 
of the Shepheard, this will not be found in the sanctification of the 
best Hypocrite under Heaven, they may goe far and yet fall away, 
and this is no Arminianism, but if you search the Scriptures diligently, 
you will find these things to be true. 


316 | The Puritans 


HYPOCRITES AND SAINTS 


RULY it is hard to perceive when men differ, and therefore it is 
lf not‘an easie matter to make such use of Sanctification, as by it to 
beare witnesse unto Justification: ! and it will be a very hard case and 
much more difficult, when men cannot feele the presence of spirituall 
gifts, but want spirituall light: and when they doe finde faith in them- 
selves, they doe finde it in hypocrites also, even in hypocrites also, even 
faith to seeke the Lord, & faith to waite upon him, and faith to apply 
him, saying, My God, and faith to stay upon the God of Israel; and yet © 
these men doe vanish away in hypocrisie; this hypocrites may doe; see- 
ing therefore what easines of errour may befall Christians, whether this 
or that grace be of the right stampe or no, it will behove Christians 
to be wary, for even Eagle-eyed Christians will have much adoe so 
to discerne of sanctification in themselves, before they see their justi- 
fication, as to cut off all hypocrites from having the like in them, for the 
sanctified frame of Gods children, and that which seemeth to be like 
it in hypocrites, both of them spring from the holy Ghost, and both 
from faith: but now the Spirit of God hath further worke in his own 
people, beyond what he worketh upon others, though he melteth both, 
yet hypocrites are melted as iron, which will returne againe to his 
former hardnes, but his owne people are melted into flesh, which will 
never returne to his hardnes more, neither can they rest in any measure 
of softnes unto which they have attained, but still are carryed toward 
Jesus Christ: so that the one is a temporary faith, and the other per- 
severeth; though both worke in the name of Christ, yet this difference 
will be found between them, not only when hypocrites come to be 
blasted, but even in the middest of their profession: As for the faith of 
the Gospell of Jesus Christ, it is never president of its own power, but 
his strength lyeth out of himselfe in Christ; whereas hypocrites and 
legall Christians are confident of their faith, that they can make use 
of it unto such and such ends, they think they need no more but look 
up to Christ, and their worke is at an end; and such strength they finde 
in themselves, as that they doe not feare, but that they shall carry an 
end all their worke to Gods glory and their own: whereas the strongest 
faith even of the Thessalonians (whose faith was such, as none of all 
the Churches went before them) if it be not supplyed and strengthened, 
they know, & the Apostle Paul knoweth that it will warpe & shrinke. 
This may we see by comparing, 1 Thes. 1. 3. with Chap. 3. 2, 10. And 
the faithfull people of God, Jsa. 26. 12. acknowledge Him to worke all 
their works for them. And therefore as there is a reall difference in the 


This World and the Next 317 


presence of the Spirit; so also in the worke of faith in hypocrites, and 
the children of God, for the one putteth confidence in himselfe in the 
gift received, and the other in Jehovah. This is the first difference of 
Sanctification. 

2. There is Difference also in the Rule whereby they are guided, 
though both seeke to the word of God & take delight in that, insomuch 
as you shall not be able to difference them there, yet a great difference 
there is in the apprehension of the word: the one is so confident of 
the comfort that he hath in the word, and he will be ready to take it 
ill at Gods hand, if he finde not acceptance before him: Now the other 
see the need they have of the Lord to maintaine their comfort for them. 
This manner of affection we finde in David, when the Lord had brought 
him and his people into a sweet frame and temper of spirit to offer 
willingly towards the building of the Temple; what saith David now? 
Doth he thinke this to be enough? No, no, but he prayeth to the Lord, 
1 Chron. 29. 18. O Lord God of Abraham, Isaack, and Israel our fathers keepe 
ihis for ever in the imagination of the thoughts of the heart of thy people, and 
prepare their heart unto thee. Thus is he sensible that these comforts would 
soone faile them, & they should againe waxe barren and uncomfortable. 
And here is the nature of true Consolation in Christ, to looke up unto 
the Lord to preserve and maintaine it, and so he is still drawne neerer 
& neerer to Christ. But now though both attend unto the Word, as 
their Rule of Sanctification, if you take it in the way, in which the one 
and the other hold it forth, yet there is a great difference. Psal. 119. 6. 
Then shall I not be ashamed, &c. Here is a Rule; what, may not hypocrites 
walke according to this rule? Truly they professe no lesse, and they 
think it enough, if they have but a Rule in their eye, and therfore 
under a spirit of bondage they are confident and say, What soever the 
Lord commandeth us, we will heare it and doe it, Deut. 5. 27. And what saith 
Balaam; Though Balaack would give me an house full of silver and gold, I 
cannot goe beyond the Commandement of the Lord, Numb. 22. 18. and yet he 
loved the wages of iniquity; and indeed those that undertake so much 
in their owne strength, they come afterward to be weary of the Lord, 
and weary of his Commandements: as Amos 8. 5. and they say at last, 
It 1s in vaine to serve God, and what profit 1s it that we have kept his ordinances? 
Mal. 3. 14. These are but like washed swine, that will crop grasse for 
a while in a faire Pasture, but if you keepe them long there, they will 
not delight in such manner of feeding, but will rather choose to go into 
the mire; but as for goats they will delight in the Commandments of 
the Lord, Jsa. 58. 2. It is not a very hard thing unto them, nor grievous 
for them to keep solemne fasting dayes together, they come willingly, 


318 The Puritans 


they delight to come, therefore the difference will be hardly discovered, 
and unles you be a Christian of a very cleere discerning, you will not 
finde the difference. 


WADING IN GRACE 


or further encouragement hereunto, consider that place, Ezech. 47. 
F 3, 4, 5. It shewes you the marvailous efficacy of the spirit of Grace 
in the dayes of the Gospel: First a Christian wades in the rivers of God his 
grace up to the ankles, with some good frame of spirit; yet but weakly, for — 
a man hath strength in his ankle bones, Acts 3. and yet may have but | 
feeble knees, Heb. 12. 12. So farre as you walk in the waters, so far are 
you healed; why then in the next place, he must wade till he come to 
the knees, goe a thousand Cubits, a mile further, and get more strength 
to pray, and to walk on in your callings with more power and strength. 

Secondly, but yet a man that wades but to the knees, his loynes are 
not drenched, for nothing is healed but what is in the water. Now the 
affections of a man are placed in his loynes, God tries the reines; a 
man may have many unruly affections, though he be padling in the 
wayes of grace; he may walk on in some eavennesse, and yet have 
many distempered passions, and may have just cause to complaine 
of the rottennesse of his heart in the sight of God: why then, thou hast 
waded but to the knees, and it is a mercy that thou art come so farre; 
but yet the loynes want healing, why, wade a mile further then; the 
grace of God yet comes too shallow in us, our passions are yet unmorti- 
fied, so as we know not how to grieve in measure, our wrath is vehe- 
ment and immoderate, you must therefore wade untill the loynes bee 
girt with a golden girdle; wade an-end, & think all is not well untill you 
be so deep, & by this you may take a scantling, what measure of grace 
is poured out upon you. And if thou hast gone so farre, that God hath 
in some measure healed thy affections, that thou canst be angry and 
sin not, &c. it is well, and this we must attain to. But suppose the loyns 
should be in a good measure healed, yet there is more goes to it then 
all this; and yet when a man is come thus farre, he may laugh at all 
temptations, and blesse God in all changes: But yet goe another thou- 
sand Cubits, and then you shall swimme; there is such a measure of 
grace in which a man may swimme as fish in the water, with all 
readinesse and dexterity, gliding an-end, as if he had water enough to 
swimme in; such a Christian doth not creep or walk, but he runs the 
wayes of Gods Commandements; what ever he is to doe or to suffer 
he is ready for all, so every way drenched in grace, as let God turn 
him any way, he is never drawn dry. 


This World and the Next | 319 


CHRISTIAN CALLING 


EE are now to speake of living by faith in our outward and tem- 
W porall life: now our outward and temporall life is twofold, 
which wee live in the flesh. It is either a civill, or a naturall life, for 
both these lives we live, and they are different the one from the other: 
Civill life is that whereby we live, as members of this or that City, or 
Town, or Commonwealth, in this or that particular vocation and 
calling. 

Naturall life I call that, by which we doe live this bodily life, I meane, 
by which we live a life of sense, by which we eate and drinke, by which 
we goe through all conditions, from our birth to our grave, by which 
we live, and move, and have our being. And now both these a justified 
person lives by faith; To begin with the former. 

A true beleeving Christian, a justified person, hee lives in his vocation by his 
faith. 

Not onely my spirituall life, but even my Civill life in this world, 
all the life I live, is by the faith of the Son of God: he exempts no life 
from the agency of his faith, whether he live as a Christian man, or 
as a member of this or that Church, or Commonwealth, he doth it 
all by the faith of the Son of God. 

Now for opening this point, let me shew you what are those severall 
acts of faith which it puts forth about our occasions, and vocations, that 
SO we may live in Gods sight therein. 

First, Faith drawes the heart of a Christian to live in some warranta- 
ble calling; as soone as ever a man begins to looke towards God, and 
the wayes of his grace, he will not rest, till he find out some warrantable 
Calling and imployment: An instance you have in the Prodigall son, 
that after he had received & spent his portion in vanity, and when 
being pinched, he came home to himself, & comming home to his 
Father, the very next thing after confession and repentance of his sin, 
the very next petition he makes, is, Make mee one of thy hired servants; 
next after desire of pardon of sin, then put me into some calling, though 
it be but of an hired servant, wherein he may bring in God any service; 
A Christian would no sooner have his sinne pardoned, then his estate 
to be setled in some good calling, though not as a mercenary slave, 
but he would offer it up to God as a free-will Offering, he would have 
his condition and heart setled in Gods peace, but his life setled in a 
good calling, though it be but of a day-labourer, yet make me as one 
that may doe thee some service; Paul makes it a matter of great thank- 
fulnesse to God, that he had given him ability, and put him in place 


320 The Puritans 


where he might doe him service, 1 Tim. 1. 12. And in the Law, they 
were counted uncleane beasts that did not divide the hoofe into two, 
Lev. 11. 3. therefore the Camell, though he chewed the cud, yet be- 
cause he did not divide the hoofe, hee was counted uncleane; and God 
by the Beasts, did signifie to us sundry sorts of men, who were cleane, 
who not, as you may see in Peters Vision, in Acts 10. It shewes you then, 
that it is onely a cleane person, that walkes with a divided hoofe, that 
sets one foote in his generall, and the other in his particular calling; 
he strikes with both, he serves both God and man, else he is an uncleane 
beast, if he have no calling but a generall, or if no calling but a particu- 
lar, he is an uncleane creature; But now as soone as ever faith purifies 
the heart, it makes us cleane creatures, Acts 15. 9. and our callings doe 
not interfeire one upon another, but both goe an end evenly together, 
he drives both these plowes at once; As God hath called every man, so let 
him walke, 1 Cor. 7. 19, 20. This is the cleane worke of faith, hee would 
have some imployment to fill the head and hand with. 

Now more particularly, faith doth warily observe the warrantable- 
nesse of its calling. 

Three things doth faith finde in a particular calling. 

First, It hath a care that it be a warrantable calling, wherein we 
may not onely aime at our own, but at the publike good, that is a 
warrantable calling, Seek not every man his owne things, but every man the 
good of his brother, 1 Cor. 10. 24. Phil. 2. 4. Seek one anothers welfare; 
faith works all by love, Gal. 5. 6. And therefore it will not think it hath 
a comfortable calling, unlesse it will not onely serve his owne turne, 
but the turn of other men. Bees will not suffer drones among them, 
but if they lay up any thing, it shall be for them that cannot work; 
he would see that his calling should tend to publique good. 

Secondly, Another thing to make a calling warrantable, is, when 
God gives a man gifts for it, that he is acquainted with the mystery 
of it, and hath gifts of body and minde sutable to it: Prov. 16. 20. He 
that understands a matter shall finde good; He that understands his businesse 
wisely. God leads him on to that calling, 1 Cor. 7. 17. To shew you that 
when God hath called me to a place, he hath given me some gifts 
fit for that place, especially, if the place be sutable and fitted to me and 
my best gifts; for God would not have a man to receive five Talents, 
and gaine but two, he would have his best gifts improved to the best 
advantage. 

Thirdly, That which makes a calling warrantable, is, when it is 
attained unto by warrantable and direct meanes, when a man enterprises 
not a calling, but in the use of such meanes as he may see Gods provi- 


This World and the Next 321 


dence leading him to it: so Amos manifests his calling against the High 
Priest, Amos 7. 14, 15. The Lord tooke me, and said unto me, Goe, feed my 
people: So he had a warrant for it, Gods hand led him to it in Gods 
Ordinance, and therein he comforted himselfe, whereas another man 
that hath taken up such a calling without warrant from God, he deales 
ingenuously, Zach. 13. 5. and leaves it; to shew you that a man ought 
to attend upon his owne warrantable calling. Now faith that hath 
respect unto the word of God for all its wayes, he would see his calling 
ayming at the publique good, he would see gifts for it, and an open 
doore for his entrance into it, hee would not come unto it by deceit 
and undermining of others, but he would see the providence and ordinance 
of God leading him unto it, the counsell of friends, and encouragement 
of neighbours; this is the first work of faith. 

2. Another work of faith, about a mans vocation and calling, when 
faith hath made choyce of a warrantable calling, then he depends upon 
God for the quickning, and sharpning of his gifts in that calling, and 
yet depends not upon his gifts for the going through his calling, but 
upon God that gave him those gifts, yea hee depends on God for the 
use of them in his calling; faith saith not, Give me such a calling and 
turne me loose to it; but faith lookes up to heaven for skill and ability, 
though strong and able, yet it looks at all its abilities but as a dead work, 
as like braided wares in a shop, as such as will be lost and rust, unlesse 
_ God refresh and renue breath in them. And then if God doe breathe 
in his gifts, hee depends not upon them for the acting his work, but 
upon Gods blessing in the use of his gifts; though he have never so 
much skill and strength, he looks at it as a dead work, unlesse God 
breathe in him; and he lookes not at his gifts as breathed onely on by 
God, as able to doe the work, unlesse also he be followed by Gods 
blessing. Blessed bee the Lord my strength, that teacheth my hands to warre, 
and my fingers to fight, Psal. 44. 1. He had been trained up to skill that 
way, yet he rests onely in Gods teaching of him, Psal. 18. 32, 33, 34. 
It 1s the Lord that girds me with strength; he puts strength into his hands, 
so that a Bow of steele 1s broken with my armes; And therefore it was that 
when he went against Goliah, though he had before found good suc- 
cesse in his combats with the Lyon and the Beare, yet he saith not, I 
have made my part good enough with them, and so shall I doe with 
this man; no, but this is the voyce of faith; The Lord my God that de- 
livered me out of their hands, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistim; 
Hee that gave me strength and skill at that time, hee is the same, 
his hand is not shortned: And then what is this Philistim more then one 
of them? 1 Sam. 17. 37. And so when hee comes in Goliahs presence, 


322 The Puritans 


and looks in his face, he tels him he comes to him in the name of the Lord 
of Hosts; and hee comes not onely in the Lords name, but he looks 
up to him for skill and strength to help; and therefore saith ver. 40. The 
Lord will close thee in my hands; so that by his owne strength shall no flesh 
prevaile; Jt 1s in vaine, saith faith, to rise early, and goe to bed late, but it is 


God that gives his beloved rest, Psal. 127. 1, 2, 3. Prov. 3. 5, 6. The strongest . 


Christian is never more foyled, then when he goes forth in strength of 
gifts received, and his owne dexterity. 

Thirdly, We live by faith in our vocations, in that faith, in serving 
God, serves men, and in serving men, serves God: The Apostle sweetly de- 


scribes it in the calling of servants, Eph. 6. 5. to 8. Not with eye service. 


as men-pleasers, but as the servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the 
heart with good will, as unto the Lord, and not unto men; Not so much 
man, or onely man, but chiefly the Lord; so that this is the work of 
every Christian man in his calling, even then when he serves man, 
he serves the Lord; he doth the work set before him, and he doth it 
sincerely, and faithfully, so as he may give account for it; and he doth 
it heavenly and spiritually; He uses the world as tf he used it not, 1 Cor. 7. 31. 
This is not the thing his heart is set upon, hee lookes for greater matters 
then these things can reach him, he doth not so much look at the world 
as at heaven. And therefore that which followes upon this, he doth 
it all comfortably, though he meet with little encouragements from man, 
though the more faithfull service he doth, the lesse he is accepted; 
whereas an unbeleeving heart would be discontented, that he can 
finde no acceptance, but all he doth is taken in the worst part; but 
now if faith be working and stirring, he wil say, I passe very litle to be 
judged by you, or by mans judgement, 1 Cor. 4. 3. I passe little what you 
say, or what you do, God knows what I have done, & so his spirit is 
satisfied, 1 Thess. 2. 6. We were tender over you, as a Nurse over her childe; 
We wrought not for wages, nor for the praise of you, if so, wee had 
not been the servants of Christ. A man therefore that serves Christ 
in serving of men, he doth his work sincerely as in Gods presence, 
and as one that hath an heavenly businesse in hand, and therefore 
comfortably as knowing God approves of his way and work. 
Fourthly, Another act of faith about a mans vocation is this; It 
encourageth a man in his calling to the most homeliest, and difficultest, 
and most dangerous things his calling can lead and expose himselfe 
to; if faith apprehend this or that to be the way of my calling, it 
encourages me to it, though it be never so homely, and difficult, and 
dangerous. Take you a carnall proud heart, and if his calling lead him 
to some homely businesse, he can by no meanes embrace it, such 


Se 


This World and the Next : 323 


homely employments a carnall heart knowes not how to submit unto; 
but now faith having put us into a calling, if it require some homely 
employment, it encourageth us to it, he considers, It is my calling, 
and therefore he goes about it freely, and though never so homely, 
he doth it as a work of his calling, Luke 15. 19. Make mee one of thy 
hired servants: A man of his rank and breeding was not wonted to hired 
servile work, but the same faith that made him desirous to be in a 
calling, made him stoop to any work his calling led him to; there is 
no work too hard or too homely for him, for faith is conscious, that it 
hath done most base drudgery for Satan. No lust of pride, or what 
else so insolent, but our base hearts could be content to serve the Devil 
and nature in it, and therefore what drudgery can be too homely for 
me to doe for God? Phil. 2. 5, 7. Let the same minde bee in you that was 
in Christ Iesus, hee made himselfe of no reputation; he stood not upon it, 
that he was borne of God, and equall to the most High, but he made 
himselfe a servant, and of no reputation, and so to serve God, and 
save men; and when his Father called him to it, he stooped to a very 
low employment, rose up from Supper, and girded himselfe with a 
Towell, and washed his Disciples feet, John 13. They thought it was 
a service too homely for him to doe, but he tells them, that even they 
ought thus to serve one another. So faith is ready to embrace any 
homely service his calling leads him to, which a carnall heart would 
blush to be seene in; a faithfull heart is never squeamish in this case, 
_ for repentance will make a man revenge himselfe upon himselfe, in 
respect of the many homely services he hath done for Satan, and so 
faith encourageth us to the most difficult and homely businesses. Ezra ° 
10. 4. It is a great thing thou art now about, yet arise and bee doing, for 
the matter belongs to thee: Yea, and though sometimes the work be more 
dangerous, yet if a man be called to it, faith dares not shrink; It 
was an hard point that Herod was put upon, either now hee must 
bee prophane, or discover his hypocrisie; now therefore John dis- 
chargeth his conscience, and though it was dangerous for him to bee 
so plaine, yet faith encourageth him to it; if it appeare to bee his 
Galling, faith doth not picke and choose, as carnall reason will doe. 

Firstly, Another act of faith, by which a Christian man lives in his 
vocation, is, That faith casts all the failings and burthens of his calling 
upon the Lord; that is the proper work of faith, it rolls and casts all 
upon him. | 

Now there are three sorts of burthens that befall a man in his 
calling. 

1. Care about the successe of it; and for this faith casts its care upon 


324 The Puritans 


God, 1 Pet. 5. 7. Pro. 16. 3. Commit thy workes unto the Lord, and thy 
thoughts shall be established, Psal. 55. 22. 24. Cast thy burthen upon the 
Lord, and he will deliver thee; faith will commend that wholly to God. 

2. A second burthen, is feare of danger that may befall us therein 
from the hand of man. Luke 13. 31. 32. Some bids Christ goe out of 
the Country, for Herod will kill him; what saith Christ to that? Goe 
tell that foxe I must worke to day and to morrow, &c. He casts that upon 
God and his calling, God hath set me a time, and while that time 
lasts, my calling will beare me out, and when that time is out, then 
I shall be perfect. | 

3. Another burthen, is the burthen of injuries, which befalls a man 
in his calling. I have not hastened that evill day, Lord thou knowest; 
he had not wronged himselfe nor others in his calling, and therefore 
all the injuries that befall him in his calling, he desires the Lord to 
take it into his hands. 

Sixtly, Faith hath another act about a mans vocation, and that is, 
it takes all successes that befall him in his calling with moderation, hee 
equally beares good and evill successes as God shall dispense them 
to him. Faith frames the heart to moderation, be they good or evill, 
it rests satisfied in Gods gracious dispensation; J have learned in what 
estate soever I am, therewrth to bee content, Phil. 4. 11, 12. This he had learned 
to doe, if God prosper him, he had learned not to be puffed up, and 
if he should be exposed to want, he could do it without murmuring. 
It is the same act of unbeleefe, that makes a man murmure in crosses, 
which puffes him up in prosperity; now faith is like a poyse, it keeps 
the heart in an equall frame, whether matters fall out well or ill, 
faith takes them much what alike, faith moderates the frame of a 
mans spirit on both sides. 

Seventhly, The last work which faith puts forth about a mans calling, 
is this, faith with boldnesse resignes up his calling into the hands of 
God or man; when ever God calls a man to lay downe his calling, 
when his work is finished, herein the sons of God farre exceed the 
sons of men; another man when his calling comes to bee removed 
from him, hee is much ashamed, and much afraid, but if a Christian 
man be to forgoe his calling, he layes it downe with comfort and bold- 
nesse, in the sight of God and man. 

First, In the sight of God, 2 Tim. 4. 7. I have fought the fight, I have kept 
the faith, and finished my course, and therefore, henceforth is laid up for me 
a crowne of righteousnesse, which God according to ms righteous word and 
promise will give him, as a reward for his sincere and faithfull walking; 
he lookes up to God, and resignes up his calling into his hand; he 


This World and the Next 325 


tels Timothy, the day of his departure is at hand; and now, this is 
matter of strong consolation to him; faith beleeving, that God put 
him into his calling, and hath beene helpfull to him hitherto, and 
now growne nigh to the period of his calling, here was his comfort, 
that he had not throwne himself out of his work; but God cals him 
to leave it, and so he leaves it, in the same hand from whom he re- 
ceived it. A man that in his calling hath sought himselfe, and never 
looked farther then himselfe, he never comes to lay downe his calling, 
but he thinks it is to his utter undoing: a Swine that never did good 
office to his owner, till hee comes to lye on the hurdle, he then cryes 
out; but a Sheep, who hath many times before yeelded profit, though 
you take him and cut his throat, yet hee is asa Lamb dumb before the 
shearer; so a carnall man, that never served any man but himselfe, 
call him to distresse in it, and he murmures and cries out at it; but 
take you a Christian man, that is wonted to serve God in serving of 
men, when hee hath beene faithfull and usefull in his calling, he 
never layes it downe but with some measure of freedome and bold- 
nesse of spirit; as it was with the three Princes in the furnace, they 
would live and dye in Gods service, and therefore God marvailously 
assisted them in their worst houres; the soule knows whom it hath 
lived upon: This is the life of faith in the upshot of a mans calling, 
he layes it downe in confidence of Gods acceptance: and for man, 
_he hath this boldnesse in his dealings with men, he boldly challenges 
all the sons of men, of any injury done to them, and he freely offers 
them restitution and recompence, if any such there should be: It was 
the comfort of Samuel when hee was growne old, and the people were 
earnest for a King, 1 Sam. 12. 3. he saith unto them; Behold, here 
am I before you this day, beare witnesse against me this day, Whose 
Oxe or Asse have I taken? Gc. hee makes an open challenge to them 
all, and they answered, Thou hast done us no wrong. This is the comfort 
of a/Christian, when he comes to lay downe his calling, he cannot 
onely with comfort looke God in the face, but all the sons of men. 
There is never a Christian that lives by faith in his calling, but hee 
is able to challenge all the world for any wrong done to them, We 
have wronged and defrauded no man, Acts 20. 26. 2: Cor. ‘12. We have 
done most there, where we are least accepted; that is the happinesse 
of a Christian, those who have beene the most weary of him, have 
had the least cause. 

Vse 1. From hence you see a just reproofe of the infidelity found 
in them that live without a calling, they either want faith, or the exer- 
cise of faith; if thou beest a man that lives without a calling, though 


326 | The Puritans 


thou hast two thousands to spend, yet if thou hast no calling, tending 
to publique good, thou art an uncleane beast; if men walke without 
a cloven hoofe, they are uncleane: and hast thou a Calling, and art 
never so diligent in it, it is but dead worke, if thou want faith. It like- 
wise reproves such Christians, as consider not what gifts they have 
for this and that calling; he pleads for himselfe, his wife and children, ° 
further then himselfe he respects no calling; and this is want of faith 
in a Christians calling: or if men rest in the strength of their owne gifts, 
for the performing of their callings, and will serve God in some things, 
and themselves and theirs in other some, or if we can tell how to be 
eye-servants, it is but a dead worke, for want of faith; or if thou lose 
thy selfe, and thy heart is carnall, and not heavenly minded, thou 
mayest have faith, but that is but a dead worke. And if thou cast not 
all thy care and burthen upon God, thou wilt be very dead when ill 
successes fall out; but had we faith, it would support us in our worst 
successes; and if better successes come, if faith be wanting, our vaine 
heart will be lifted up; and if Christians be confounded before God 
and men, when they are to resigne up their callings, it is a signe 
that either they have no faith, or it puts not forth life and courage 
into them; and if it so fall out, know that the root of it springs from 
an unbeleeving heart. 

Vse 2. It is an Use of instruction to every Christian soule that 
desires to walke by faith in his calling, If thou wouldst live a lively 
life, and have thy soule and body to prosper in thy calling, labour 
then to get into a good calling, and therein live to the good of others; 
take up no calling, but that thou hast understanding in, and never 
take it unlesse thou mayest have it by lawfull and just meanes, and 
when thou hast it, serve God in thy calling, and doe it with cheerful- 
nesse, and faithfulnesse, and an heavenly minde; and in difficulties 
and dangers, cast thy cares and feares upon God, and see if he will 
not beare them for thee; and frame thy heart to this heavenly modera- 
tion in all successes to sanctifie Gods name; and if the houre and 
power of darknesse come, that thou beest to resigne up thy calling, 
let it bee enough that conscience may witnesse to thee, that thou hast 
not sought thy selfe, nor this world, but hast wrought the Lords workes; 
thou mayest then have comfort in it, both before God and men. 

Vse 3. It is a word of consolation to every such soule, as hath beene 
acquainted with this life of faith in his calling, Bee thy calling never 
so meane and homely, and never so hardly accepted, yet, if thou hast 
lived by faith in thy calling, it was a lively worke in the sight of God, 
and so it will be rewarded when thy change shall come; Many a Chris- 


This World and the Next 327 


tian is apt to be discouraged and dismaid if crosses befall him in his 
calling, but be not afraid, let this cheare up thy spirit, that what ever 
thy calling was, yet thou camest into it honestly, and hast lived in it 
faithfully, your course was lively and spirituall, and therefore you may 
with courage looke up for recompence from Christ. 


PURCHASING CHRIST 
1 John 5. 12 
He that hath the Son, hath life, and he that hath not the Son, hath not life. 


ECAUSE in Scripture phrase, there are more wayes of having Christ 
B requisite for the knowledge of every soul[,| I thought it therefore 
not amisse to open those other wayes by which in Scripture we are said 
to have Christ. 

Secondly, as therefore we have him first by worshipping of him, so 
secondly we have him by purchase; this way of having Christ is ex- 
pressed to us partly in the parable of the Merchant man, Matth. 13. 46, 
Who when he had found a pearle of precious price, he sold all that |he| had and 
bought it; that is one way of having Christ, to purchase him, to buy him: 
you have the like also held out in Esa. 55. 1, 2. every one that is a thirst, 
come and buy without money or without price, wherein the Holy Ghost 
calleth upon us to receive the Lord Jesus Christ as revealed in his 
_ ordinances, and he makes a solemne proclamation to all, to come to 
these waters and buy without money? or how without money? It is true, 
should a man offer his house full of ‘Treasure for Christ, it would be 
despised Cant. 8. 7. and when Szmon Magus offered to buy the gifts of 
the Holy Ghost for money, it was rejected with a curse. Act. p. 8, 9, 10, 
and if the gift of the Holy Ghoast cannot be bought for money, how 
can the Lord Jesus Christ be bought for money? 

And yet thus much I say, that many times without laying out of 
money, he cannot be had, without parting with money we cannot get 
him, the case so stands that sometimes, the holding fast a mans money 
lets go the Lord Jesus Christ, you have a famous example in the 
Young man, Maitth. 19. 21. to 24. Where our Saviour shewes how hard 
a thing it is for a rich man to enter into the Kingdome of Heaven, 
because it is hard for a rich man to part with all that he hath, when 
God calls for it at his hands, so that without mony sometimes Christ 
cannot be had; And yet for mony he cannot be had, it was upon the 
point of mony, that the Lord Jesus parted with the Pharisees, Luke 16. 
11. 12. If you be unfarthfull with the mammon of iniquity, who will trust you 
with true treasure; if you use not outward things well, who will give you 


328 The Puritans 


Saving grace in Jesus Christ? so that sometimes for want of spending 
of money in a right way, many a man looses the Lord Jesus; so that 
though Christ cannot be had for money, yet sometimes without ex- 
pence of mony he cannot be had. 

For opening of this point there are three Cases in which money must 
be layed out, or else Christ cannot be had, and in refusing to lay out 
money, we refuse life in him. 

First, when the Lord by some speciall command requires it, as was 
the case of the young man in the Gospel, there was a speciall commande- 
ment given to him, not given to every man, nor to every rich man, nor’ 
scarce any man in ordinary course now adayes, yet then given to him; 
and now to stick for money, and rather lose eternall life then his goods, 
in such a case as this, he loseth his life in Christ; and upon the same 
poynt, or the like, broke Ananizas and Saphira, it was the common reso- 
lution of the Church of God in that Age to sell all that they had, and to 
give to the poore, and to live after the same rate that other men did, 
a like proportion to every man; and to distribute faithfully to every 
man as every man had need, and as the Apostles saw cause; and when 
they come and keep back part of the price for which their possessions 
was sold, you see how bitter a curse from the presence of the Lord fell 
upon them, they were cut off from the Congregation of Gods people, 
and it is much to be feared, cut off from the Lord Jesus Christ, and from 
all hope of eternall life, and to stand as a terrible example to the whole 
Church of God, to shew what a dangerous thing it is to stand upon | 
termes with Christ, and not to part with money for him; they could 
not have fellowship with the people of God, unlesse they parted with 
all they had, and live upon the common distribution; but this case is 
not alwayes. 

But secondly, there is another time, namely, when in case of persecu-_ 
tion the market of Christ goes at so high a rate, that a man cannot have 
Christ with any comfort in his soule, or peace to his Conscience, or 
purity of heart or life, unlesse he hazzard all his estate, or a good part 
of it: In buying and selling of a precious commodity, a good Chapman 
will have it what ever it cost him: So Christ is sometimes at an higher, 
and sometimes at a lower rate, but whatever he costs him, he will 
have him; it is spoken in commendation of the Hebrews, that they 
suffered joyfully the spoyling of their goods, Heb. 10. 34. to shew you, that 
sometimes it comes to that passe, that unlesse a man be content to 
part with all his goods, he cannot have the recompence of reward, 
the Lord Jesus Christ to his soule; and therefore the Servants of God 
have been content to loose all that they had, and willing to resigne up 


This World and the Next 329 


all for the maintaining the integrity of their spirits, and the purity of 
their hearts and lives in the presence of God, and then let all goe, they 
can suffer the spoyle of all joyfully. 

3. It is in case that by Gods providence you be cast to live in such 
Congregations, where you cannot have the Ordinances of God but 
at a great charge, as it is the case of many places, that unlesse they be 
at charge for the Ministery of the Gospel it cannot be had; then we 
must communicate freely that way, then be not deceived, God is not 
mocked, for what a man sowes that shall he also reap, Gal. 6. 6, 7, 8. Where 
the Apostle doth encourage men at such a time as this, when the 
Gospel, cannot be had but at great charge, then lay out liberally for 
the Gospel of Christ, and he calls it, A sowing to the Spirit; as a man 
that layes out his money for an earthly commodity, for a good bargaine, 
he reapes corruption; so he that sowes of the Spirit, shall of the Spirit 
reape life everlasting. When a man layes out his money unto Spirituall 
ends, to obtaine the free passage of the Ordinances of Christ, to enjoy 
the liberty of the Gospel, he thereby sowes to the Spirit, and shall of 
the Spirit reap life everlasting; for this is the blessing promised unto it, 
such as so sow, shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting; so that when a man 
out of a good and honest heart, and an hungering desire after Gods 
Ordinances, shall be willing to be at charge for them, he hath this 
promise made to him, and it shall be fulfilled, He shall of the Spirit 
reap life everlasting. But yet, when a man hath layed out his money 
for this end, if he then thinke his money is worthy of Christ, he gets 
him not; but this is the first way of having Christ by way of Purchase, 
a seasonable laying out our money for him as God requires it. 

Secondly, Christ is to be purchased, not so much by money, as chiefly 
this purchase must be made by parting with all those many and strong 
Lusts, and Corruptions, and sinfull rebellions of heart, by which we 
keep off Christ from comming into our hearts; this is that which the 
Prophet Esay directs us to, Esa. 55. 7. Let the wicked forsake his way, and 
the unrighteous man his thoughts, &c. where he tels us what we must give 
for Christ, for sinne is neither money nor moneys worth; but he makes 
a good bargaine that parts with his sins, though he should get no Christ 
for his parting with them. He speakes of the first and principall part 
of the life of a Christian man, the life of his Justification that springs 
from pardon of sinne; let a man forsake those sins and lusts that he 
hath been most carried captive with; let a wicked man forgoe his 
thoughts and wayes, both his secret and open sins, and let him then 
turne to God, and he will abundantly pardon; then God will receive him 
graciously, to the justification of life. This is the thing that we must 


330 The Puritans 


doe, this was the point upon which sundry of them that have been 
hopefull for Religion, have broken off from Christ, and Christ from 
them; they have forsooke him, and he left them; Jehu stuck upon this 
very point, he would goe a great way, but when it comes (as he thinkes) 
to hazzard his title to the Crowne, then he will set up the golden Calves; 
when he saw that all must be parted with, rather then he would forgoe 
that, without which he could not maintaine his Kingdome, he would 
rather loose Christ, then venture the losse of that, 2 King. 10. 29. 31. 
He regarded not to walke in all the Commandements of the Lord, and then as 
he cut short with God in reformation, and did not fulfill to walke after 
the Lord, therefore God cut Jehu short of all the hopes of grace that 
ever he might have attained, to vers. 32. so that if we cut at a scanting 
with God, and will part with some lusts and corruptions, but not with 
others, then will God cut you short of all your hopes of eternall life: 
and it was upon the same termes that Herod fell short of Christ, Mar. 6. 
10. Luk. 3. 18. he had done many things according to Johns Ministry, 
but when God would cut him short of Herodzas his darling Lust, that 
nothing might lye between God and him, but might now become fit 
for Christ, because he would not cut himselfe short of Herodias, and 
cut short his reformation there, then this was added to all his other sins, 
he shut up John in prison, and afterward cut off his head also; so that 
when there is any sinne, whether honour or pleasure, or any comfort 
in this life, that men will not be content to cut themselves short of, 
it is the way to utter ruine; God will not be abundantly ready to pardon 
such. And so was it with Demas, when the love of money did so prevaile 
with his heart, after he had been much esteemed of the Apostles, and 
mentioned honourably in their Writings, yet in the end it is said of him, 
He hath forsaken me, and loved this present world, 2 Tim. 4. 10. Love of the 
world had so prevailed with him, that he fell off from Paul, and from 
the Lord, whose Servant Paul was, and from fellowship in the Gospel, 
and so did not finde Christ; this rule is universally to be followed, and 
the care of it not to be neglected in any case, that our sins are to be 
put out of our hearts and hands, as ever we looke to finde Christ, and 
life in him; notable is that expression recorded in Fudg. 10. 10. to 16. 
the people come and cry to the Lord, to deliver them out of the hands 
of their enemies; but they had got to themselves other gods, and now 
he would deliver them no more; When the people heard that, that God 
would not deliver them, and could finde no acceptance from him, so 
long as they continued in such a sinne; they thereupon goe and put 
away all their Idols, and leaves not one to be seen among them; and 
when God sees that they had put them away, the text saith, that his 


\ 


This World and the Next 331 


soule was grieved for their misery, and his bowels rowled within him for 
them, and he delivered them: So that when men are willing to fore-go 
their honourable sinnes, their sweet and delightfull sinnes, their profit- 
able sinnes, and those wherewith they have been most captivated; and 
he knowes one may as well pull their hearts out of their bellies, as some 
sinnes out of them; but when he sees men are willing to fore-go their 
most darling delightfull sins, willing to breake off all impediments that 
stand between God and them, the Soule of God is grieved in such a 
case, and it pitties him now that such a soule should be without him; 
and then it will not be long ere God stirres them up meanes of de- 
liverance, and he himselfe will reveale himselfe unto them. Notable is 
that speech, Hos. 14. 3. 8. when they take words to themselves, and promise 
to leave all their evil wayes, whereby they sinne against God, they make 
this request to God, That he would take away their iniquities from them; 
and least God should answer them, but be you doing something in 
the meane time; they professe, that for their owne parts they will set 
about the doing of their iniquities away, and they say; Ashur shall not 
save us, and we will have no more to doe with them; wherein he shewes you, 
that God lookes not that only his people shall pray him to take away 
their iniquities, for we may pray so long enough, and not finde it done; 
but when we desire God to doe it, and set our hearts and hands to it, 
and now with heart and hand say, Ashur shall not save us, nor will we say 
any more to the workes of our hands, Ye are our gods; then saith God in vers. 4. 
I will heale their back-slidings, and will love them freely, &c. God is then 
abundantly ready to pardon, when men forsake their owne wayes and 
thoughts, and throw away the sins that hang about them, God will 
say of such a people, I will heale them, and love them freely, mine anger ts 
turned away from them. And you may presume, when Gods anger is 
turned away, it is by and through Christ, or else there is no healing; 
and therefore in vers. 8. Ephraim saith, What have I to doe any more with 
Idols; the heart of a Christian, or of a Nation, shall openly acknowledge, 
that they wil have no more fellowship with these abominations; and 
then saith God, I have heard him, and observed him. God heares us, and 
understands what we say, and observes us well, and offers to be a 
_covert to us from the storme, when we begin solemnly to abandon 
such evils, then he heares us, and answers us according to the desire 
of our hearts; you have many a soule that cryes to God, Take away our 
iniquity, and many Petitions we put up to God to that purpose; and 
that sometimes with many bitter moanes, but God heares it not; we 
pour out our plaints in vaine, and he regards it not; but when we come 
to God, and desire him not only to take them from us, but begin to 


332 The Puritans 


consider our owne wayes and iniquities, and to put them from us, out 
of our hearts and hands, and we wil no more take such bad wayes, as 
heretofore we have done; we will no more ride upon horses, nor run to 
forreigne Princes for succour; then God heares, and grants graciously 
whatever his poore people begge at his hands, and answers it according 
to all the desire of their hearts, then the Lord presently gives us the . 
Lord Jesus Christ, and life and healing in him; and this is the second 
way of having Christ by purchase. . . 

Fourthly, there is yet something more fier all this, a further price 
to pay, if we mean to purchase Christ; And that is, that we part with 
all our good parts, and all the good common gifts of grace, which are 
found sometimes in good nature, and sometimes in the children of the 
Church, we must part with them all that we may win Christ 1 Cor. 3. 
18. If any man among you seem to be wise in this world, let him become a foole 
that he may be wise: who ever would be a wise man, (as a wise man he 
cannot be, if hee have not his part in Christ) he must lay aside his serious 
and sad deliberation, and communication with flesh and blood, and 
all things in the way of God, that he thinkes will be prejudiciall, if 
any man be so wise, as to see this and that danger in a Christian course, 
let him become a foole; else he shall never become a Christian: if a 
man will be content to forsake all for Christ, he must first be a foole, 
and be content to bee counted a foole, and heare every carnall man 
to count him a foole. And I speak not onely of carnal and civill wisdom, 
that, that only is to be denyed in this case, but common graces, which 
many times choakes all the hypocrites in the bosome of the Church; 
they are commonly choaked upon this point, upon these things they 
trust, and doe therefore verily beleeve, that this and that interest, God 
hath in them, and they in God; because they have received such and 
such gifts from him, and this is the case formerly mentioned, Maitth. 
7. 22, 23. they pleaded their spirituall gifts, though common gifts, and 
such as may be found in workers of iniquity, they prayed to God, a common 
gift; and they prophesied in his name, they had prophetical gifts; some 
measure of the spirit of ministery, and they were able fo cast out devills 
in Christs name; now when as men do trust upon these, and settle them- 
selves upon such a change, truly, hereby they loose that power in 
Christ which else they might have had. Its a wonder to see what a 
change propheticall gifts will work in a man, 1 Sam. 10. 10, 12. he, 
there Saul had a spirit of prophesie came upon him, and the people 
wondred at it, it works a strange change in a man, and so in the next 
chap. the 19 and 23 ver. he prophesied til he came at such a place, 
so that you shall see a man that is trained up in any good order, though 


This World and the Next. 333 


sometimes given to loose company; when once God begins to poure 
into him any spirituall gift, to inlighten his mind, and to inlarge his 
affection, that hee begins to have some love to, and some joy in the 
Word, and some sorrow in hearing of the Word, and some comfort in 
meditation: Its wonder to see what a change this will work in the 
spirit; he forthwith begins to abandon his loose courses, and sets him- 
selfe to a more strict course, then hee begins to see his acquisite learning 
is but a small matter to edification; hee prizes his spirituall gifts, and 
hee is able now to doe much; and when a mans heart is thus changed 
by propheticall gifts, it workes in a man such confidence in his soule, 
that he thinkes all the Congregation shall perish before he can perish, 
and if Ministers, may be thus deceived by common gifts and graces, 
how much more may their poor hearers bee deceived, when they by 
hearing the Word find such comfort, and illumination, and inlarge- 
ments, that they thereby finde a great change wrought in them; and 
yet if ministers may bee so much deceived, in presuming vainly of 
their good estate, which was not so, then much more common Chris- 
tians: Should any man presume at Felix his trembling, Act. 24. 25. 
At Fehues zeale, 2 King. 10. 16. At Ahabs humiliation, 1 King. 21. 28, 29. 
At Herods joy in hearing, you know what became of all these, these be 
graces of God, though but common graces, and if the Prophets were 
deceived, may not these be deceived also, that have neither Christ 
nor any part in him; and therefore a man that would bee sure not to 
goe without Christ, nor without life in him; he must not trust in any 
spirituall gift he hath received, though his mind be inlightened, some- 
times to feare, sometimes to joy, to humiliation, to inlargement, to 
zealous reformation, yet rest in none of these, for these you may have 
and yet want Christ, and life in him; common graces may and will 
deceive you, a man may have all these, and yet not prize Christ, as 
his cheifest good; he may have all these, and yet not worship him: 
Notwithstanding all these, there may bee some iniquity in their hands 
for which cause God will not shew mercy to them: See and observe, 
if in the midst of all these you do not worke some iniquity; they were 
workers of iniquity alwayes at the best, Matth. 7. 23. you may be workers 
of iniquity, notwithstanding all these; and therefore consider if there 
be not some veine of pride, and hypocrisie, and covetousnesse, that 
cleaves fast to your hearts, which you allow your selves in, which if 
you doe, these very gifts will bee your ship-wracke, your anchor will 
breake, and your ship will bee carryed away, and you fall downe in 
destruction; but see that your hearts bee cleane, and see that there bee 
not an ill thought or way that you allow your selves in, and if so, then 


334 The Puritans 


your heart will lay hold upon God, and you will prize Christ, and then 
it is a signe those gifts you have are not in hypocrisie; for in an hypo- 
crite, they are alwayes found with some sinne, which if a man doe not 
willfully shut his eyes against hee may see, for our Saviour speakes of 
such a sinne in them, as the rest of the people of God may know them 
to be counterfeits, from verse 15 to 23. You shall know them by this, doe - 
men gather grapes of thornes, or figges of thistles? have not they their ill 
haunts, but put away these from you, if you mean to have Christ. 


INCREASE MATHER, 1639-1723 


[Increase Mather, the most conspicuous figure in the second genera- 
tion of New Englanders, was born in Dorchester, where his father, 
Richard, was minister. Educated at home and at the free school in 
Boston, he entered Harvard in 1651, though he spent most of his col- 
lege years at Ipswich and Boston under the supervision of John Norton. 
Taking his B.A. in 1656, he went to England, studied at Trinity Col- 
lege, Dublin, where he received his M.A. in 1658. He became a friend 
of John Howe, a powerful Independent minister, whose pulpit he filled 
at Great ‘Torrington, Devonshire. He served as chaplain to the garrison 
at Guernsey, and had just been called to an important post at Glouces- 
ter when the Restoration closed all avenues of advancement to him 
in England. He returned to Guernsey, then to Boston in 1661, the 
next year marrying Maria Cotton, daughter of John Cotton. He im- 
mediately assumed the role of a leading divine by opposing his father 
and Jonathan Mitchell on the Half-Way Covenant, though he was 
finally persuaded to change sides. Installed as teacher of the Second 
Church in Boston, 1664, he was thereafter strategically located to in- 
fluence the policies of the colony. In 1674 he was elected fellow of 
Harvard College and in 1681 refused the presidency because he did 
not wish to leave his church; in 1685 he accepted it, though he was a 
nonresident administrator and still devoted much the larger share of 
his attentions to his church and to colonial affairs. Sent as agent for 
the colony to England in 1688, he remained abroad for four years, 
negotiating for the renewal of the charter through the shifting scenes 
of the Glorious Revolution. At the moment of his triumphant return 
in 1692, with the governor and the slate of magistrates having been 
nominated by himself, he was at the apex of his power. Thereafter his 
influence began to decline: many citizens who had no idea with what 
he had contended believed he had made too many concessions in 
securing the charter. In 1701 he was forced to resign the presidency of 


This World and the Next | 335 


the College by a law requiring the president to live in Cambridge, 
but after his defeat Samuel Willard was put in charge under the title 
of vice-president and the residence requirement was not enforced. 
Though he gave the court at the Salem witch trials good advice—which 
they did not take—he and his son Cotton were attacked as though they 
had been responsible for the miscarriage of justice. Solomon Stoddard 
of Northampton dominated the Western part of the colony and inaug- 
urated there policies that Mather abhorred. In Boston itself he was 
bearded by the establishment of the Brattle Street Church under Ben- 
jamin Colman in 1699, who instituted certain practices which Mather 
had opposed. But if his power in his last years was curtailed, he re- 
mained a commanding figure, fighting courageously for inoculation in 
1721, maintaining the principles of the founders to the last ditch, and yet 
moving with the times on at least some important questions. In 1718 
he and Cotton Mather assisted at the ordination of a Baptist minister. 
He was a voluminous writer, only surpassed in the number of his 
publications by Cotton Mather. An exponent of the plain style, he 
preached solid, logical, and learned sermons. For biography, see Ken- 
neth B. Murdock, Increase Mather. 

The text of: the ‘fir rots from Awakening Truths Tending. to 
ee a hee The second selection is from A 
Discourse Concerning the Uncertainty of the Times of Men (Boston, 1697), 
pp. 8-21, 34-36, a sermon delivered at Harvard College after two 
undergraduates, skating on Fresh Pond, broke through the ice and 
were drowned. The third selection is from Practical Truths Tending to 
Promote the Power of Godliness (Boston, 1682), pp. 209-212.] 


PREDESTINATION AND HUMAN EXERTIONS 


HERE are some Sinners so unreasonable, and so wicked. Ask them ° 
why they don’t reform their Lives, why don’t you Turn over 
a new leaf, and amend your ways and your doings, they will answer, 
God does not give me Grace. I can’t Convert my self, and God does 
not Convert me. Thus do they insinuate as if God were in fault, and 
the blame of their Unconversion to be imputed unto him. But as 
Elihu speaks, Suffer me a little, and I will shew you what I have yet to say 
on God’s behalf. 

1. I say, God is not bound to give Sinners Grace: He is an absolute 
Sovereign, and may give Grace or deny Grace to whom he pleaseth. 
Shall the thing formed, say to him that formed it, why hast thou made 
me thus? has not the Potter power over the Clay, to make one vessel 


336 The Puritans 


unto honour, and another to dishonour? The glorious God has a 
greater power over his Creatures, than the Potter has over the Clay. 
Wherefore, He has Mercy on whom He will have Mercy, and whom He will 
He hardens, Rom. 9. 18. If He giveth Grace to any man in the World, 
it is from His Sovereign good pleasure. Why were such poor Fisher- 
men as Peter, and James, and John, and others, as mean as they, made 
the Subjects of Saving Grace, when many incomparably beyond them 
in Learning and Wisdom, have been left to perish in their unbelief? 
Even so, because so it has seemed good in the sight of Him, who is 
the Lord of Heaven and Earth, Math. 11. 25, 26. Grace is a wonderful 
gift of God. Sinners are enemies to him, and Rebels against him: Is 
He bound to bestow such a gift on his Enemies, when it may be too 
they will not so much as humbly Pray unto him for it[?] Indeed He 
sometimes has done so. Sinners that never Prayed to him, that never 
had one thought in their hearts of returning to him, he has miracu- 
lously Prevented them with Sovereign Grace. So it was with the Con- 
verted Gentiles. Of them the Lord sayes, J am sought of them that asked 
not for me, I am found of them that sought me not, I said, behold me, behold 
me to a Nation that was not called by my Name, Isa. 69. 1. Nay, sometimes 
when Sinners have been in the height of their Resistance and Re- 
bellion, to shew the exceeding Riches of his Grace, God has then 
Converted them. Thus it was with Saul afterwards Paul, when he was 
breathing out Slaughters against the Disciples of the Lord, then did 
God give him Faith in Christ, without his Praying for it. Thus also 
those Converts in the Second: Chapter of the Acts. Not many days 
before their Conversion they had been Murdering the Son of God. 
And just before the Sermon began they were mocking of the Preacher, 
and yet Converted by that Sermon. Such Instances there have been 
known in the World, of men that have come to hear a Sermon only 
to deride it, and yet have been Savingly wrought upon by it. A credible 
Author reports, that two profane men drinking together, knowing that 
Mr. Hooker was to Preach, one of them said to the other, Let us go 
hear how Hooker will baul, yet was he Converted by that very Sermon, 
which he went to hear with a Scornful Spirit. And after that had 
such a love for Mr. Hooker, as to remove three thousand Miles, that 
so he might live under his Ministry. Such Examples are wonderful 
Evidences of Sovereign Grace.! 

2. Altho’ it is true, (as has been shewed) that Sinners cannot Con- 
vert themselves, their Cannot is a wilful Cannot. Math. 22. 2. They will 
not come. It is not said they could not (tho’ they could not of themselves 
come to Christ) but that they would not come. If it were in the power 


This World and the Next ° 337 


of a Sinner to Convert himself, he would not do it: For he hates Con- 
version. It is abomination to fools to depart from evil, Prov. 13. 19. Psal. 50. 
17. Thou hatest instruction. If they hate to be Converted they will not 
chuse it. Prov. 1. 29. They hated knowledge, and did not chuse the fear of the 
Lord. Their hearts are in Love, and in League with their Lusts, yea 
they hate to be turned from them: They love darkness rather than 
light, they hate the light, neither come they to the light, Joh. 3.19, 
20. Sinners are haters of God: they say and think that they love him, 
but the Lord knows that they hate him, and therefore they will not 
repent of their Sins, and believe on Christ. Christ said to the Jews, 
You will not come to me that you might have Life, Joh. 5. 40. No, they would 
dy first. And why would they not come? The reason of their Aversion 
is mentioned in v. 42. I know you, that you have not the Love of God in you. 
Their carnal unregenerate Minds were full of enmity against God, 
‘and therefore they would not come to Jesus Christ the Son of God. 
They cannot Convert themselves, and they are not willing that God 
should Convert them. If Sinners were willing to have Grace and Holi- 
ness, why do they not repair to him for it, who alone can give it to 
them? An hungry man is willing to have bread, therefore he will seek 
after it, where ever it is to be had. When the Egyptians were hunger 
bitten, they went to Pharaoh, crying for bread, he bid them go to 
Joseph, and they did so. Thus if Sinners were willing to be Converted, 
they would cry to God to turn them: whenas there are many Sinners 
that did never put up one earnest Prayer to God in their Lives, that 
he would bestow Converting Grace on them. 

3. Sinners can do more towards their own Conversion than they 
do or will do. They should give diligence to make sure of their being 
effectually called. They should strive to enter in at the strait gate. 
Conversion is the strait gate that leadeth unto Salvation. They should 
Labour not for the meat that perisheth, but for that which endureth 
to Everlasting Life: but they do not give diligence, they do not strive, 
they do not labour to obtain Grace and Salvation: Therefore they 
perish, and perish justly. Prov. 21.25. The desire of the slothful kills him, 
for his hands refuse to labour. Men say that they desire Grace, and yet 
their hands refuse to Labour, they will be at no pains to obtain it: 
And this slothfulness kills them. It proves the death of their Souls. 
The Soul of the sluggard desireth and has nothing, but the Soul of the diligent 
shall be made fat, Prov. 13. 4. There are several things which Sinners 
have power to do in order to their own Conversion, & which they 
ought to do, but they will not. 

(1) They have power to avoid those things which are an hindrance 


338 ‘ The Puritans 


of Conversion. e.g. They can if they will forbear the outward Acts 
of sin. By giving way to sin their hearts are hardned, and their Con- 
version becomes the more difficult. Heb. 3. 13. Take heed lest any of 
you be hardned through the decertfulness of sin. But Sinners give way to 
many sins which they could abstain from, if they would. A Sabbath- 
breaker can forbear his profaning of the Sabbath. An ungodly Swearer 
can,forbear his profane Oathes, if he will. A Lyar can forbear telling 
such Lyes. Sinners can avoid the Temptations which will endanger 
their falling into sin. He that knows that if he goeth to such a place, 
or into such a company, he will probably be drawn into sin, ought’ 
to avoid the Temptation. Prov. 4. 15. Avozd it, turn from it, and pass 
away. The Sinner can do so if he will, but he will not keep out of the 
way of Temptation. A drunkard will not avoid the Temptation to 
that his sin. Prov. 23. 31. Look not on the Wine when it giveth his colour. 
He can chuse whether he will look on the wine or no: he has power 
to refrain, but will not. Thus men by habituating themselves to sin, 
do what in them is to hinder their own Conversion. Jer. 13. 23. Can 
the Ethiopian change his skin, or the Leopard his Spots? then may you also do 
good that are accustomed to do evil. Again, Evil Companions hinder Con- 
version. Alas! Alas! Alas! these have been the Eternal ruin of many 
a Young Man, that was in an hopeful way for Conversion: He has 
fallen in with vain Companions, they have given him bad Counsel, 
so have Convictions been stifled, and the motions of Gods holy Spirit 
quenched in his Soul. The word of the Lord sayes, Forsake the foolish 
& Live, Prov. 9. 6. The Sinner has power to forsake them, but he will 
not tho’ he dies for it. 

(2) Sinners have power to wait on God in the use of means which 
has a tendency to promote Conversion. They can if they will, not. 
only forsake evil Companions, but associate themselves with those that 
are good: Then are they in the way of Conversion. Prov. 13. 20. 
He that walketh with wise men shall be wise, but a Companion of fools shall 
be destroyed. That Learned & Holy Man Dr. Goodwin? in the account 
which he giveth of his Conversion, declares, That when he was a 
Young Schollar in the University of Cambridge, there were in that 
College, which he belonged unto, a Number of holy Youth’s (that’s his 
Expression) his associating himself with them was an happy means 
of furthering the work of Conversion in his Soul. This Unconverted 
Sinners have power to do. Their feet are as able to carry them to a 
godly Meeting as to an ungodly one. Reading the Scripture has some- 
times been the Means of Conversion. I could tell you of several Learned 
Jews that were Converted from their Judaism by Reading the 53. 


This World and the Next 339 


Chapter of Isaiah. The famous Fr. Junius,* was Converted from his 
Atheism by reading the first Chapter of John’s Gospel. He that can 
read is able to read the Scripture, and Books which promote Godli- 
ness in the power of it, but a Sinful Creature chuseth rather to mispend 
his Time in reading vain Romances, or it may be worse Books. A 
diligent attendence to the Word of God is the way to obtain Converting 
Grace. Rom. 10. 17. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word 
of God. Sinners many Times do not mind what they hear. Nay, it 
may be they will Set themselves to sleep when God is speaking to them by 
his Minister? And shall they then complain, that they cannot Convert 
themselves, & that God will not Convert them? Once more, Serious 
thinking & Consideration on Spiritual and Eternal things is oftentimes 
blessed unto Conversion. This is what God has given men power to 
do, if they will use that power. They ought seriously to think what 
they have done, and what they are, and what their end is like to be. 
If they would do so, it may be Repentance would be the effect of it. 
1 King. 8. 47. If they shall bethink themselves, and Repent, and make Sup- 
plication. David sayes, I thought on my wayes, and turned my feet unto thy 
Testimonies, Psal. 119. 59. If men would be perswaded to think seriously, 
it may be they would Turn. How long shall thy vain thoughts lodge within 
thee? A Sinner will suffer vain thoughts to lodge within him, but serious 
& holy thoughts he will give no lodging unto, he will not suffer them 
to abide in his heart. Serious Consideration is a duty incumbent on 
Sinners. Hag. 1. 5. Thus sayes the Lord of hosts, Consider your wayes. 
Would the Unconverted Sinner, consider sadly what his Sinful wayes 
have been, what numberless sins he has been guilty of, and what a 
fountain of sin his heart is, and whither he is going, it may be Con- 
version would follow upon such serious consideration. Ezek. 18. 28. 
Because he considereth and turns away from all his Transgressions. Yes, if 
| he is set upon Considering, there is great hopes that he will Turn, and 
that he shall live, and not dye. If he will be perswaded to go alone, 
to think and consider sadly with himself, What is my present. Condi- 
tion? Am I in Christ, or am I not in Christ? If I should dy this Night, 
What would become of my Soul? In what World must it be to all 
Eternity? It may be such considerations would issue in Conversion. 
Sinners should consider of Death, that the thing is certain, and the 
Time uncertain, and that they run an infinite hazzard if they neglect 
making sure of an Interest in Christ one day longer. Deut. 32. 209. 
O that they were wise, that they would consider their latter end! And they 
should Consider of the Eternity which follows immediately upon death. 
If they would do that, surely it would affect their Souls. A late Writer 


340 The Puritans 


(which I have formerly mentioned) speaks of a pious man, that One 
in Company with him observing a more than ordinary fixedness and 
concern in his Countenance, asked him, What his thoughts were upon, 
he then thereupon uttered that Word For-ever, and so continued saying 
nothing but repeating that Word, For-ever! For-ever! For-ever! a quarter 
of an hour together. His Thoughts and Soul was swallowed up with 
the consideration of Ererniry. And truly if an Unconverted Sinner 
would be perswaded to go alone and think seriously of Eternity, if 
it were but for one quarter of an hour, it may be it would have an 
Everlasting Impression on his heart. This Sinners can do if they will: 
And if they will not do as much as this comes to, towards their own 
Conversion and Salvation, how inexcusable will they be? Their blood 
will be upon their own heads. Let them no more say, God must do all, 
we can do nothing, and so encourage themselves to Live in a careless 
neglect of God, and of their own Souls, and Salvation. Most certainly, 
altho’ we cannot say, That if men improve their Natural abilities as 
they ought to do, that Grace will infallibly follow, yet there will not 
one Sinner in all the Reprobate World, stand forth at the day of 
Judgment, and say, Lord, Thou knowest I did all that possibly I 
could do, for the obtaining Grace, and for all that, Thou didst withold 
it from me. 


MAN KNOWS NOT HIS TIME 


HE DOCTRINE at present before us, is, 
That for the most part the Miserable Children of Men, know not their Time. 


There are three things for us here briefly to Enquire into. (1.) What 
Times they are which Men know not? (2.) How it does appear that they are 
Ignorant thereof. (3.) The Reason Why they are kept in Ignorance of their Time. 

Quest. 1. What Times are they which men know not? 

Ans. 1. Time is sometimes put for the proper season for Action. For the 
fittest season for a man to Effect what he is undertaking. The Seventy 
Greek Interpreters translate the words Karron Avurov. There is a 
Season, a fit Time for men to go to work in. If they take hold of that 
nick of opportunity, they will prosper and succeed in their Endeavours. 
It is a great part of wisdom to know that season. Hence it is said, 
A wise mans Heart discerneth both Time and Judgment. Eccles. 8. 5. but 
few have that wisdom or knowledge. Therefore it is added in the next 
verse. because to every purpose there 1s Time and Judgment, therefore the 
misery of man is great upon him. The meaning is, because men discern ~ 
not the proper Time for them to Effect what they purpose, their misery 


This World and the Next 341 


is great. If they would attempt such a thing just at such a Time, they 
would make themselves and others happy, but missing that Oppor- 
tunity great misery comes upon them. So it is as to Civil Affairs very 
frequently: Men discern not the proper only season for them to obtain 
what they desire. Yea, and so it is as to Spirituals. Men are not aware 
of the proper season wherein they may obtain good for their Souls. 
There is a price put into their hands to get Wisdom, but they have 
no heart to know and improve it. There is a day of Grace in which 
if men seek to God for mercy they shall find it. Isa. 55. 6. Seek ye the 
Lord while he may be found. The most of them that have such a day 
know it not until their finding Time is past. Thus it was with Israel 
of old. Jere. 8. 7. The Stork in the heaven knows her appointed Time, the 
Turtle, and the Crane, and the Swallow observe the Time of their coming, but 
my People know not the Judgment of the Lord. ‘They discerned not the Fudg- 
ments, that is the dispensations of God. They had a Summer of prosperity 
but did not improve it. There was a Winter of Adversity coming on 
them, but they knew it not, nor did they use the proper only means 
to prevent it. So the Jews when Christ was amongst them, had a blessed 
time if they had known it: but they knew not the things of their peace, 
in the day of their peace; they knew not the Time of their Visitation. 

2. A man knows not what Changes shall attend him whilest in this World. 
Changes of Providence are in the Scripture called Times. It is said 
that the Acts of David, and the Times that went over him, and over Israel, 
and over all the Kingdoms of the Countries, were written by Samuel, 
and Nathan the Prophet, and in the Book of Gad the Seer, meaning 
the Changes of Providence which they were subject unto. 1 Chron. 209. 
30. A man knows not whether he shall see good or evil days for the 
Time to come: he knoweth what his past days have been; but does 
not know what they shall be for the time to come. It may be he is 
now in prosperity: he has Friends, Children, Relations, which he 
takes delight in, he has Health, an Estate, and Esteem in the World, 
he does not know that he shall have any of these things for the future. 
Indeed, men in Prosperity are apt to think (as they would have it) 
that they shall alwayes, or for a long time be so: but very often they 
find themselves greatly mistaken. The Psalmist confesseth that it was 
so with him. Psal. 30. 6, 7. In my prosperity I said, I shall never be moved, 
Lord, by thy favour, thou hast made my Mountain to stand strong: thou didst 
hide thy face and I was troubled. His Enemies were all subdued: his 
Mountain, that is his Kingdom, especially his Royal Palace in Mount 
Sion was become exceeding strong, that now he thought all dangers 
were over, but Absaloms unexpected Rebellion involved him and the 


342 The Puritans 


whole Land in Trouble. The good People in Jostahs time promised 
themselves great happiness for many a year under the Government 
of such a King as he was. Lam. 4. 20. Of whom we said under his shadow 
we shall Live. But his sudden Death made a sad Change in all the 
Publick Affairs. A man knows not what Afflictions shall come upon 
him whilest on the earth. This is true concerning particular Persons: 
they may know in general, that Afflictions shall attend them in an 
evil Sinful World. But what those Afflictions in particular shall be 
they know not. Thus the Apostle speaks, Act. 20. 22, 23. I go bound 
in Spirit to Ferusalem, not knowing what things shall befall me there, save that 
the holy Spirit witnesseth in every City, saying, that Bonds and Afflictions 
abide me. So that he knew in general that he should meet with Afflic- 
tion, but not in special what the Affliction would be. So is it true 
concerning a People, that they know not what Times or Changes may 
pass over them. Little was it thought that whilest Hoshea (who was the 
best of all the Nineteen Kings that had Ruled over the Ten Tribes) 
was Reigning,'a Powerful forreign Enemy should invade the Land 
and make them all Slaves. Little did the Jews think that when Josiah 
was but Thirty nine years old, he should dy before that year was 
out, and they never see good day more after his Death. And as men 
know not What their Changes and Afflictions must be, so neither When 
they shall come upon them. Whether it will be a long or a short time 
before those Changes overtake them. Mar. 13. 35. You know not when 
the Master of the House comes, at even, or at mid-night, or at the Cock crowing, 
or in the morning. ‘Thus a man knoweth not whether the sharpest Afflic- 
tions which are reserved for him, shall come upon him in his Youth, 
or in his middle age, or in his old age; though for the most part mens 
greatest Afflictions overtake them in their old age. Nor can any man 
know whether his Afflictions will soon be over or continue for a longer 
time. Thus, the Lords People knew that their Captivity in Babylon 
should last for Seventy years and no longer; but that knowledge was 
by divine Revelation. As for some other Persecutions they knew not 
how long they would continue. Psal. 74. 9. There is no more a Prophet, 
neither is there any that knows how long. ‘Those words seem to respect the 
Persecution under Antiochus, when there was no Prophet. 

3. A man knows not the Time of his Death: Often it is so, that when 
Death falls upon a man, he thinks no more of it, than the Fishes 
think of the Net before they are Caught in it; or then the Birds think 
of the Snare before they are taken in it, as Solomon here speaks. It 
useth to be said, (and it is a plain, weighty known Truth) that nothing 
is more certain then that every man shall Dy, and nothing more un- 


This World and the Next ) 343 


certain than the Time when. Old Isaac said, Gen. 27. 2. Behold, I 
know not the day of my Death. Though he Lived above twenty years 
after he spoke those words, he did not know that he should Live a 
day longer. A man cannot know how long himself or another shall 
live. It is true that Hezekiah was ascertained that he should not dy 
before fifteen years were expired. And the Prophet Jeremy knew that 
Hananiah should not live a year to an end. Jer. 28. 16. This year thou 
shalt Dy, because thou hast Taught Rebellion against the Lord. But those were 
extraordinary cases. It is not a usual thing for a man to know before 
hand how many months or years he shall live in this World: Nor 
may he desire to know it, but he ought to leave that with God. Al- 
though David prayed, saying, Lord make me to know my End, and the 
number of my Dayes, what tt 1s. Psal. 39. 4. His meaning is, not that he 
might know just how many dayes he should live, but that he might 
be made duely sensible of his own frailty and mortality, and lead his 
life accordingly. Oftentimes Death is nearest to men when they least 
think of it; especially it is so with ungodly men: we have an instance 
of it in Agag. He came before Samuel, delicately, and said, surely the 
bitterness of death is past. 1 Sam. 15. 32. Little did he think, that within 
a few hours, he should be cut in pieces. When Haman boasted of his 
being the chief Favourite at Court, and that the Queen had invited 
no one but the King & himself to a Banquet, he little thought of the 
destruction which was then preparing for him. When Belshazzar was in 
the beginning of the night drinking and making merry with his pro- 
fane Companions, he little thought that he should be a dead man before 
morning; but that night was Belshazzar slain. Dan. 5. 30. The Rich Fool 
in the Gospel dream’d of a long life and merry: He said to his Soul, 
Eat, Drink and be merry, thou hast Goods laid up for many years. 
But God said, This night thy Soul shall be required of thee: He must appear 
immediately before the dreadful Tribunal. Luk. 12. 20. Thus we see 
what Time it is which men know not. 

The second thing to be End aries into, is, How it does appear that 
men know not ther Time. 

Answ. 1. It is evident, Jn that all future Contingencies are known to God 
only. Hence Christ said to the Disciples, J¢ is not for you to know the Times 
and the Seasons which the Father has put in his own power. Act 1. 7. Future 
Times and Contingent Events, the knowledge & disposal of them 
has God reserved to himself. ‘There are future things which happen 
necessarily, that a man may know them long before they come to 
pass: God has appointed Lights in the Heaven to be for Signs and Seasons. 
Gen. 1. 14. These move regularly and unfailably according to that - 


344 The Puritans 


Order which the Creator has established. Therefore a man may know 
infallibly how many hours or minutes such a day or night will be 
long before the Time comes; He may know when there will be an‘ 
Eclipse of the Sun or of the Moon, twenty, or an hundred years before 
it comes to pass: * but for Contingent Things, which have no necessary 
dependance on the constituted Order of Nature, but upon the meer 
Pleasure and Providence of God, they are not known except unto 
God, or to them unto whom he shall reveal them. The Lord chal- 
lengeth this as his Prerogative. The Idols whom the Heathen wor- 
shipped,.could not make known future Contingencies. Isa. 41. 22, 23. 
Let them shew us what shall happen, or declare us things for to come, shew the 
things that are to come hereafter, that we may know they are Gods. To do this 
was past their skill. The Devil knows many future things which men 
are ignorant of; He could foretel Sauls ruin, and Davids coming to the 
Kingdom. Nevertheless, there are many future Events which he has 
no knowledge of. Therefore he often deludes those that Enquire of 
him with deceitful and uncertain Answers. But as for men they are 
ignorant of future things, which most nearly concern themselves, or 
their own Families. No man knows so much as who shall be his Heir, 
or Enjoy the Estate which he has laboured for. Psal. 39. 6. Surely 
every man walks in a vain shew, he heapeth up riches, and knows not who shall 
gather them. He knows not whether one of his Relations, or a meer 
stranger shall possess that Estate which he has taken so much pains, 
and disquieted himself so much for the obtaining of it. This medita- 
tion made Solomon out of Love with this World. He new as much as 
any man, and yet he confesseth that he did not know whether the 
man that should come after him, and enjoy all that he had Laboured 
for, would be a wise man or a fool, Eccles. 2. 18, 19. And he sayes, 
A man knows not that which shall be; for who can tell him when it shall be. 
Eccles. 8. 7. He knows neither what nor when it shall be. And again 
he saith, A man cannot tell what shall be; and what shall be after him who 
can tell him! Eccl. 10. 14. This is to be understood concerning Con- 
tingent Events. Such as the particular Afflictions which are to befall 
a man, or the Time, Place, or manner of his Death. 

2. The Times of men are ordered according to the Decree of God. There is 
nothing comes to pass in the Earth, but what was first determined by 
a wise decree in Heaven. Act. 15. 18. Known unto God are all his works 
from the beginning of the World. God knows what he has to do. The 
Apostle speaks there concerning the Conversion of the Gentiles. ‘This 
did God fore-know and decree from the beginning of the World, yea 
from all Eternity. The like is to be said concerning every thing which 


This World and the Next 345 


happens in the World. Not a Sparrow falls to the Ground without his 
Providence, and therefore not without his decree, the one being an 
Infallible Effect of the other. He has decreed when and where every 
man that comes into the World shall be Born; and where he shall live, 
in what Country, and in what ‘Town; yea, and in what House too. 
Act. 17. 26. He has determined the times before appointed, © the bounds 
of their Habitation. He has decreed when every man shall dy. Eccl. 3. 2. 
There is a Time to be Born, and a Time to Dy. That is to say, a Time 
decreed and appointed by God when every man shall be born, and 
when he shall dy. Nor shall any man live a day longer than the Time 
which the Lord has appointed for him. Job 14. 5. His dayes are deter- 
mined, the number of his months are with thee, thou hast appointed his bounds 
that he cannot pass. All the Circumstances attending every mans Death, 
the place and the manner of it, whether he shall dy by Sickness, or by 
any other Accident, all is determined in Heaven before it comes to 
pass on the Earth. Now the decrees of God are Secret things until the 
Event or some divine Revelation shall discover them. Deut. 29. 29. 
Secret things belong unto the Lord our God. His divine decrees are those 
secret things, which Himself alone knows. Rom. 11. 34. For who hath 
known the mind of the Lord? or, who has been his Counsellor? 

3. The Conversations of men generally make it manifest, that they know 
not their Time. They do many things which they would not do, and they 
neglect many things which they would certainly practise, if they knew 
what Times are near them. Math. 24. 43. If the good man of the house 
had known in what watch the Theef would come, he would have watched, and 
would not have suffered his house to be broken up. Thus men live in a careless 
neglect of God, and of their own Souls and Salvation, but if they 
knew that Death will come stealing suddenly upon them, they would 
watch and pray. Did they know that before the next week, they shall 
be in another World, they would live after another manner than now 
they do. Most commonly Persons are light and vain in their Spirits, 
when heavy Tidings is near to them. Did they know what sad News 
they shall hear shortly, they would be in a more solemn frame of Spirit. 
Isa. 5. 12. The harp and the viol, the tabret, and the pipe, and wine are in their 
Seasts, but they regard not the work of the Lord, neither consider the operation 
of his hands. Had they known what work God intended to make with 
them speedily, they would have minded something else besides their 
sensual pleasures and delights. 

We proceed to Enquire 3. Whence it is that men know not their Time. 

Answ. It is from God. He will have them to be kept in ignorance and 
uncertainties about their Time: And this for wise & holy Ends. e.g. 


346 The Puritans 


1. That so his Children might live by Faith. That so they might 
live a life of holy dependance upon God continually. They must not 
know their Times, that so they might Trust in the Lord at all times. 
God would not have his Children to be anxiously solicitous about 
future Events, but to leave themselves and theirs with their Heavenly 
Father, to dispose of all their Concernments, as He in his Infinite 
Wisdom and Faithfulness shall see good. 

2. That their Obedience may be tried. That they may follow the 
Lord, as it were blind-fold, whithersoever He shall lead them, though 
they do not see one step of their way before them, as Abraham did. \' 
Heb. 11. 8. When he was called to go out into a place which he should after 
receive for an Inheritance, he obeyed, and went out not knowing whither he went. 
We must follow God, tho’ we know not what He will do with us, or 
how He will dispose of us, as to our Temporal Concerns, submitting 
our selves, yea, our lives and all entirely to the Will of God in every 
thing. That saying ought to be often in our mouths, Jf the Lord will, 
and we shall live, and do this or that. Fam. 4. 15. 

3. Men must not know their Time, that so they may be ever watch- 
ful. Math. 25. 13. Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour 
wherein the Son of Man comes. The generality of men, if they had it 
revealed to them (as Hezekiah) that they should certainly live so many 
years, they would in the mean time be careless about their Souls, and 
the World to come. We see that notwithstanding they are uncertain 
how short their Time may be, they are regardless about their future 
eternal Estate. How much’ more would they be so, if they knew that 
Death and Judgment were not far off from them? 

4. As to some they are kept in Ignorance of their Times, that so 
they may with the more comfort and composure of Spirit follow the 
work which they are called unto: That they may with diligence and 
chearfulness attend the duties of their general and particular Calling; 
which they could not do, if they knew what Evil Times and Things 
are appointed for them. The terror of what is coming on them, would 
be so dismal to them, that they could not enjoy themselves, nor take 
comfort in any thing they enjoy. As the Apostle speaks to the covetous 
Jews, Jam. 5. 1. Go to now you rich men, weep and howl for your miseries that 
shall come upon you. So there are many in the World, that would spend 
their days in weeping and howling, did they but know what is coming 
on them and theirs. When the Prophet Elisha had it revealed to him, 
that sad things were coming on the Land, by reason of a bloody Neigh- 
bour Nation, which would break in upon them, and exercise barbarous 
Cruelties; the holy man wept at the foreknowledge of it. 2 King. 8. IT. 


This World and. the Next | 347 


The man of God wept. So there would be nothing but weeping in many 
Families, weeping in many Towns, and in some whole Countries, did 
men but know their Times. Therefore they must be kept in ignorance 
thereof until the things come upon them.... 

And now as I have spoken these things to all this Assembly, so let 
me apply them in a special manner to you the Scholars of this Colledge, 
who are here present before the Lord. I am concerned in my Spirit 
for you. All of you are my Children: And do you think that I can see 
my Children Drowned, and not be troubled for it? God has come 
among you this last week, & lessened two of your number by a sad 
& awful Providence. Do you think these two were greater Sinners 
than any amongst you. No, no, they were both of them hopeful youths. 
One of them (young Eyres) was an only Son, and a desirable dutiful 
Son, of a sweet amiable Temper, beloved by every body. He was ob- 
served to read the Scriptures constantly every day with great Alacrity. 
A sign that there was some good thing in him towards the God of Israel. 
As for the other (Maxwell) the Rebuke of Heaven in taking him away 

is the more solemn, in that his pious Relations sent him from far: to 
be Educated in this Nursery, for Religion and good Literature. I took 
special notice of him; but could never observe any thing in him, but 
what was commendable, He was ingenious, and industrious, and I 
believe truly pious; had he lived, he was like to have been a choice 
Instrument of Service to the Church of God in his Time. And I am 
perswaded that his Soul is among the Angels of God. But if this be done 
to the green Tree, what shall be done to the Dry? This fatal blow looks 
ominously on the poor Colledge. Considering some other circumstances; 
there is cause to fear lest suddenly there will be no Colledge in New England; 
and this as a sign that ere long there will be no Churches there. I 
know there is a blessed day to the visible Church not far off; but it is 
the Judgment of very Learned men, that in the Glorious Times 
promised to the Church on Earth, America will be Hell. And altho 
there is a number of the Elect of God yet to be born here, I am verily 
afraid, that in process of Time, New England will be the wofullest place 
in all America, as some other parts of the World once famous for Re- 
ligion, are now the dolefullest on the Earth, perfect Emblems and 
Pictures of Hell. When you see this little Academy fallen to the ground 
(as now it is shaking and most like to fall) then know it is a terrible 
thing which God is about to bring upon this Land. In the mean time, 
you the Students here, are concerned to bewail the Breach which the 
Lord has made among you. If you slight and make light of this hand 
of the Lord, or do not make a due improvement of it, you may fear, 


348 | The Puritans 


that God has not done with you, but that he has more arrows to shoot 
amongst you, that shall suddenly strike some of you ere long. But Oh 
that the Lord would sanctify what has hapned to awaken you unto 
serious thoughts about Death and Eternity. Who knows but that God 
may make these sudden Deaths, an occasion of promoting the Salva- 
tion, & Eternal Life of some amongst you. It is related concerning 
Waldo, (He from whom the Waldenses have that Name given them) > 
that the occasion of his Conversion was the’ Sudden Death of one of his 
Companions. The sight of that made him serious. He did not know, 
but that he might dy suddenly too, and that he was therefore concerned 
to be always fit to dy. So did he turn to the Lord, and became a great 
Instrument of Glory to God and good to his Church. Oh! that it might 
be so with you. 


SLEEPING AT SERMONS 


NSTR. 1. We may here take notice that the nature of man is wofully cor- 
I rupted and depraved, else they would not be so apt to sleep when the 
precious ‘Truths of God are dispensed in his Name, Yea, and men are 
more apt to sleep then, than at another time. Some woful Creatures, 
have been so wicked as to profess they have gone to hear Sermons on 
purpose, that so they might sleep, finding themselves at such times 
much disposed that way. This argueth as Satans malice, so the great 
corruption and depravation of the nature of men, whence it is that they 
are inclined unto evil, and indisposed to the thing that good is. Yea, 
some will sit and sleep under the best Preaching in the World. When 
Paul was alive, there was not a better Preacher upon the Earth then he. 
Austin ® had three wishes: one was, that (if the Lord had seen meet) 
he might see Christ in the flesh: his second wish was, that he might 
have seen Paul in the Pulpit; but notwithstanding Pauls being so excellent 
a Preacher, there were some that could sit and sleep under his Ministry. 
When Soul-melting Sermons are Preached about Christ the Saviour, 
about the pardon of sin, about the glory of Heaven, there are some 
that will sleep under them. When soul-awakening Sermons are 
Preached, enough to make rocks to rend. and to bleed; when the word 
falls down from Heaven like Thunder, the voice of the Lord therein 
being very powerful and full of Majesty, able to break the Cedars of 
Lebanon, and to make the wilderness to shake; yet some will sit and 
sleep under it: such is the woful corruption and desperate hardness 
of the hearts of the Children of men. 

Instr. 2. Hence see, that there is great danger in those things ree men 
are apt to look upon as little sins, yea as no sins at all. 


This World and the Next 349 


As for sleeping at Sermons, some look upon it as no sin; others ac- 
count it a peccadillo, a sin not worth taking notice of, or the troubling 
themselves about. But my Text sheweth that danger and death is in it. 
VVe have solemn Instances in the Scripture, concerning those that 
have lost their lives, because they have been guilty of such miscarriages, 
as carnal reason will say are but little sins. VVhen there was a man 
that gathered a few sticks upon the Sabbath day, he was put to death 
for it; and yet men would be apt to think his sin was not (though indeed 
it was) very great. Men account it a small matter to add something of 
their own to the worship of God: but when Nadab and Abzhu did so, 
there went out fire from the Lord, and consumed them to death. VVhen 
Vzzah a good man, did with a pious intention touch the Ark, (which 
he being no Priest should not have done) God smote him for his Error, 
that he dyed by the Ark of God. Behold! the severity of God, and let us 
tremble at it. Common sins, which almost every one is guilty of, are 
accounted small iniquities; but there is exceeding danger in following 
a multitude to do evil. Sins of Omission are esteemed small, but mens 
Souls may be thrown into the fire and burned for ever, not only for 
bearing evil fruit, but because they do not bring forth good fruit, 
Mat. 3. 10. At the last day the Son of God will pronounce a Sentence 
of eternal death upon thousands of Millions, because they have omitted 
these and those duties which he required and expected from them. 
Sinful words are looked upon as small evils by many. How common 
is it for persons to say, what shall we be made offenders for a word? abusing 
that Scripture which reproveth those that make others offenders for 
- speaking good and faithful words. But doth not the Scripture say, 
by thy words thou shalt be condemned, Mat. 12. 37. Corrupt communications, 
obscene discourses, unclean lascivious speeches, discover the persons 
that delight in them to be amongst the number of those that shall 
(without Repentance) be condemned at the day of Judgement, yet there 
are some that make light of them. Thus concerning those words which 
some call Petty Oathes; some are so profanely ignorant as to think, that 
they may Swear by their Faith and Troth, and that there is no great hurt 
or danger in it. But there is danger of no less than Damnation for 
these seemingly little sins, if men shall allow themselves therein, not- 
withstanding the Commandment of God to the contrary. See the word 
of the Lord to this purpose, Zam. 5. 12. But above all things Swear not, 
(i.e. vainly, or except duely called therunto) nezther by Heaven, neither 
by the Earth, neither by any other Oath, therefore not by your Faith or 
Troth, lest you fall into condemnation. 

Again, sinful thoughts are esteemed small evils; but I must tell you, 


350 The Puritans 


that vain thoughts, and much more vile unclean thoughts, if indulged 
and delighted in, may hinder the Salvation of a mans Soul. Witness 
that Scripture, Jer. 4. 14. O Jerusalem, wash thine heart from wickedness, 
that thou mayest be saved; how long shall thy vain thoughts lodge within thee? 
so that there is more than a little danger, in those evils, which men 
account little sins. 


URIAN OAKES, 1631-1681 


[Urian Oakes, born in England, was brought to Cambridge by his — 
family, his father being a solid citizen, selectman, and deputy to the 
General Court. He graduated from Harvard in 1649, became a teach- 
ing fellow and edited the Almanac for 1650. In 1654 he went to Eng- 
land, was given an important pulpit at Tichfield, Hants, from which 
he was ejected in 1662. He was headmaster of the Southwark Grammar 
school, organized a separate Congregational church at Tichfield, and 
was called back to the Cambridge church in 1671. For four years he 
was acting president of Harvard College, and in 1680 consented to be 
formally installed as president, but died within a year. A little man, 
a sharp wit, an excellent Latinist, with genuine learning and a degree 
of urbanity, his sermons are among the best of seventeenth-century New 
England productions. Cf. Cotton Mather, Magnalia; Sibley, Biographical 
Sketches; Morison, Harvard College in the Seventeenth Century. This text is 
from The Soveraign Efficacy of Divine Providence; Overruling and Omnipotently 
Disposing and Ordering all Humane Counsels and Affairs, Demonstrated and 
Improved (Boston, 1682), pp. 5-22, 32-37; this sermon, on Ecclesiastes 
g : 11, was delivered at Cambridge on September 10, 1677, on the 
occasion of an Artillery election; it shows the mark of careful prepara- 
tion and polish and constitutes the classic exposition of the Puritan 
doctrine of divine concurrence in the operation of natural causes. | 


THE SOVERAIGN EFFICACY OF DIVINE PROVIDENCE 


oct. That the Successes and Events of Vndertakings and Affairs are not 

determined infallibly by the greatest Sufficiency of Men, or Second Causes; 

but by the Counsel and Providence of God ordering and governing Time and 
Chance according to his own good Pleasure. 

I have endeavoured to comprize and grasp the substance of Solomon’s 
Intendment, in this Doctrinal Conclusion: and shall explicate and 
demonstrate the Truth of it (as God shall help) in the following Propo- 
sitions, | 


This World and the Next 351 


Prop. 1. Second Causes may have a sufficiency in their Kind, to produce 
these and those Effects: an hability, a congruous disposition, or an aptness, 
yea, a kind of sufficiency in order to the putting forth this and that Act, 
and the giving Existence to these and those Effects: not indeed an 
absolute and universal Sufficiency (which can be affirmed of none but 
Him that is Allsufficient and Omnipotent) but a limited sufficiency, or 
a sufficiency. in their Azmd, and order: The Sun, to shine; the Fire, to 
burn that which is combustible; the Rational Creature to act or effect 
this or that in a way of counsel, and with freedom of will; the Swift, to 
run; the strong and valiant, and well-instructed Souldier, to fight well; . 
the wise man, to get his bread to gather riches, to gain acceptance among 
those with whom he hath to do. This is no more than to say, that 
created Agents and Second Causes, may have the active power and 
virtue of causes, all that is requisite on their parts in order to the 
production of their peculiar and appropriate Effects, all that sufficiency 
that dependent Beings, and second Causes are capable of. And indeed it 
belongs to the Infinite Wisdom and Goodness of God to furnish his 
Creatures with sufficient Ability for the operations and effects He hath 
made them for: and so He did at first, when He made every thing good 
in its Kind; and whatever Defect there is now in this respect, it is the 
fruit & punishment of Sin. Though God is able to give Being to things 
in an immediate way, yet it is his pleasure in the course of his Provi- 
dence to use Means, and to produce many things by the mediation and 
Agency of second Causes, and so gives causal virtue and ability to these 
and those things in order to the producing of such and such Effects. - 
It is a good observation, that the Lord is pleased, not through any 
defect of power in Himself but out of the abundance of his goodness to 
communicate causal power and virtue to his Creatures, & to honour 
them with that Dignity that they may be his Instruments, by which 
He will produce these and those Effects: whereby He takes them, as 
it were, into partnership & fellowship with Himself in the way of his 
providential Efficiency, that they may be Vnder-workers to, yea Co- 
vorkers with Himself. Hence He gives them an aptitude and sufficiency 
in their kind in order to their respective operations and effects: though 
some have a greater aptitude & sufficiency than others. But without 
some degree of such sufficiency, nothing can deserve the name of a 
Cause; the very essence whereof consists in its power, virtue & ability to 
produce an Effect. A cause cannot be a cause without an active power, 
or sufficiency to give being to this or that Effect. 

Prop. 2. The Successes, and Events of Affairs and Vndertakings do ordi- 
narily depend in some respects upon the Sufficiency of Second Causes. 


352 | The Puritans 


I do not say in the Observation; nor is it the meaning of Solomon, that 
Successes and Events of Affairs and Undertakings do not depend at 
all in an ordinary course, on the sufficiency of Second Causes. For this 
were to deny and destroy their causality, and to make nothing of their 
efficiency. Second causes have their peculiar Influence into their Effects, 
and contribute something to their Existence: and to assert the contrary, 
were to say that Causes are no Causes, and to speak a flat Contradic- 
tion. This would be to suppose that the Lord hath set up an Order 
and course in Nature, in vain; and given to Second Causes a sufficiency 
in their Kind, for Action, to no purpose; and to deny the ordinary — 
Providence of God, which is that whereby the Lord observes the Order 
which He hath set, and that course of Nature which is originally of 
his own Appointment, whereby one thing depends upon, and receives 
Being from another. Though the Lord is pleased sometimes upon great 
and important Occasions, to leave the ordinary Road of Providence, 
and act beyond and above the usual, stated course of Things; and 
not to concurre with, and shine upon the endeavours of created Agents, 
so as to crown them with that success which according to an ordinary 
course of Providence, might be rationally expected; yet it is not to be 
imagined that He should ordinarily dispence with the course, and 
methods of his ordinary Providence: For why then should it be called 
ordinary? God who is the Lord of Hosts, the great Leader Commander 
& Ruler of Nature, not only permits, but also effectually commands and 
causes his whole Militia, ordinarily, to move and act according to their 
Natures and natural Properties respectively, without Countermanding them, 
or turning them out of their way. For (as I remember One argues) He 
will not shew such a dislike to his own workmanship, as ordinarily to 
cross the Order, and alter the course He hath set in the World. There- 
fore the meaning of the Text is not, that Swzftness conduces nothing to 
the winning of the Race, or Strength, to the winning of the Battel; or 
Wisdom & Vnderstanding, to the getting of Bread and Riches; or Prudence, 
Art, or Skill, to the getting of the Favour and goodwill of Princes, or 
People: nor, that the Race is never to the Swift, or the Battel never to the 
Strong; no nor yet, that the Race is not more frequently to the Swift, and 
the Battel usually to the Strong, Gc. For the Lord doth most ordinarily 
award Success unto causes of greatest Sufficiency, rather than Disappoint- 
ment & Defeatment. Otherwise, it would be a very heartless, if not a 
foolish Thing (in the eye of Reason) to use means, or to think to get the 
Race by Swiftness, or Bread by Labour and Diligence, or Favour by dexterous 
& prudent Behaviour; or Learning, by Study and Industry; or to win the 
Battel by good Conduct, and Courage, and numbers of men. Yea then Wis- 


This World and the Next 253 


dom would not be better than Folly; nor Strength more desirable than 
Weakness; nor Diligence more beneficial & available than Idleness, and 
sitting still. This therefore is evident, that the Issues and Events of 
Undertakings do in some respect, ordinarily, depend upon the Sufficiency 
of Second Causes; insomuch as the greatest probability of Success (ac- 
cording to an ordinary providence, and in the eye of Reason) is ordi- 
narily on the side of Causes that are most sufficient in their kind of 
Efficiency. 

Prop. a.) Second Causes, though of greatest Sufficiency in their kind, have 
not the certain Determination of Successes G Events in their own Hands: but 
may be frustrated G disappointed. 

Though the Successes and Events of Undertakings ordinarily de- 
pend upon the sufficiency of Second Causes; yet they are not infallibly 
determined thereby. Created Agents have not Events in their own 
Hands, but may be disappointed: they cannot warrant the Events of 
their Undertakings, or Success of their Gounsels and Endeavours; but 
may be defeated of their Hopes and Expectations. ‘Thus no man hath 
the absolute command of the Issue & success of his own Undertakings. 
He may be sure of this or that Event, if the Lord Promise it to him, or 
Reveal it to be Ais Pleasure to give such Success to such Endeavours: 
but he cannot be secured of it from, or by any Sufficiency of his own. 
He may, as a wise man, foresee & say, what in an ordinary course of 
Providence is rationally to be expected; but cannot warrant the Success 
of his Undertakings, or carv out what Event he pleases, to himself. 
His Prudence, and Providence, and Diligence, and Sufficiency for Action, 
cannot assure him of the Event, or determin the Success on his side. 
And there is that Demonstration of it, that created Agents of the 
greatest Sufficiency, are sometimes disappointed. Two Things I would 
say here, 

1. Agents of greatest Sufficiency are subject to Disappointment, as well (I 
do not say, as much, or as ordinarily and often, but as well) as Agents 
of less sufficiency. The Ablest Men in any kind may miss of the Success 
they expect, as well as weaker men. That Men of great Sufficiency 
in this or that way, may be defeated of their Ends and Hopes, Solomon 
from his own Experience, assures us, in the Text: and who is it that 
upon his own observation cannot set his Seal to what He asserts? He 
gives five Instances. 1. The Race 1s not to the Swift: not profitable, or 
successful to him always; but sometimes pernicious, & destructive. 
Many agood Runner runs Himself into mischief and Ruine. Thus 
Asahel, that is said to be as light of foot as a wild Roe, ran after Abner 
so fast, that he lost his Life in that overhasty pursuit. 2 Sam. 2. 18-23. 


354 The Puritans 


There are Times when men that are swift would run from danger, 
and cannot: they have neither power to run, nor success in attempting 
it, Jer. 46, 6. Sometimes the Flight perisheth from the Swift, and he 
that is swift of foot, or that rideth the Horse, though it be at full speed, 
cannot deliver himself, Amos 2. 14, 15. It is not absolutely in the 
power of the swiftest man to escape danger, or win the prize by Run- 
ning. 2. The Battel ts not to the Strong. There is in Bello Alea, the Chance 
of Warre, as they use to speak. There is, as it were, a kind of Lottery, 
a great Uncertainty in Warre. Great Armies are sometimes defeated. 
by small and inconsiderable Forces; the great Host of Midian, by 
Gideon’s three hundred men; the Garrison of the Philistines by Jonathan, 
and his Armour-Bearer. This hath been often observed in the World. 
Sometimes strong and valiant Men are overthrown by those that are 
in strength farre inferiour to them; great Goliah, by little David. Well 
might David say, as Psal. 33. 16, 17. There is no King saved by the mul- 
titude of an host: a mighty man is not delivered by much strength. An Horse 
1s a vain thing for safety: neither shall he deliver any by his great strength. 
There are Times, when the mighty Ones are beaten down, Jer. 46.5. & The 
mighty cannot deliver himself, or the strong strengthen himself; but the couragious 
among the mighty is put to fught, Amos 2. 14, 16. Sometimes the strong 
melt like water at approaching danger, and the stouthearted are spoiled 
and sleep their sleep, and the men of might cannot find their hands, 
to make the least Defence, or Resistance, Psal. 76. 5. 

3. Bread is not to the Wise. Wise men are not able to get their Live- 
lihood, but have much adoe to make a shift to get a bare Subsistence 
in the world; and, it may be, are forc’d to beg for it, or be beholding 
to the Charity of others. There have been strange Instances of very 
wise, and worthy Persons, that have been reduced to such a Condi- 
tion. Some of you know the famous Story, Date Obolum, or (as others 
have it) Panem Belisario.1 David was put to beg his Bread of Nabal, 
1. Sam. 25. & Paul was often in Hunger and Thirst, 2 Cor. 11. 27. 

4. Riches are not to men of Vnderstanding. Sometimes indeed, wise men 
get Estates and gather Riches; and one would think they should be 
best accomplish’d for it: and yet it so falls out, that some understanding 
Men cannot thrive in the World and grow rich, notwithstanding all 
their Endeavours. So it is, that many men of great Understanding 
and rational Forecastings and Contrivances to gather wealth, though 
they lay out their Parts and their Hearts this way, and would be rich, 
yet they cannot; but are strangely defeated. You read of the poor 
wise man, Eccles. 9. 15. Many men of great Understandings are too 
wise, and of too great Spirits to labour after wealth; or if they do, 


This World and the Next 355 


their designs are unsuccessful. 5. Favour is not to men of Skill. Many 
very wise, and knowing, & skillful men, and experienced in Affairs, 
and prudent also in their Deportment, yet cannot get, or keep the 
Favour of Princes or People. Some Expositors on the Place, instance 
in Joseph, that was envied, and hated, and sold by his Brethren, & 
also lost the favour of Potiphar (though He managed the Affairs of 
his House prudently and prosperously, and deserved well at his Hands) 
and was cast into Prison by him. David, that was hated and persecuted 
by Saul; Daniel, that was cast into the Lions Den, though an excellent 
Spirit was found in Him, and great Prudence and Faithfulness in man- 
aging the Affairs of the Empire; and before that, though He had been 
in great Favour and Esteem in Nebuchadnezzar’s time, yet afterwards 
in the Reign of Belshazzar, He lived obscure, and as it were buried 
at Court, as Mr. Cartwright gathers from Dan. 5. 11, 12, 13. Many 
wise, and learned, and Ingenious Men cannot get the Favour of men, 
or keep it, when they have. The foor wise man delivered the City, 
and yet no man remembred that same poor man, Eccl. 9. 15. Belisarius 
(whom I mentioned before) was a most prudent, experienced, faithful 
»General under the Emperour Justinian, that had won Him many 
Battels, reduced many Cities & Countryes to his Obedience and ap- 
proved Himself for a most loyal, and worthy Subject, & yet after all 
his Services, even in that Emperour’s ‘Time, was through Envy, falsely 
accused, for ought appears by the Story, had his Eyes put out, and was 
forced to stand daily in the Temple of Sophia, where He held out his 
wooden dish, begging his Bread, and useing those words, Give a little 
Bread to Belisarius, whom his Virtue & Valour hath raised; and Envy de- 
pressed, © cast down again. Other Scripture Testimonies and Instances, 
besides those in the Text, might be produced, if it were needful. But 
every observing man’s experience may furnish him with Demonstra- 
tions of his Truth, That Agents of greatest Sufficiency among men are subject 
to Disappointments, as well as those of less Sufficiency. Again, 

2. Agenis of little, or. no Sufficiency, succeed sometimes in their Under- 
takings; when those of greater Sufficiency, miscarry & meet with Disappoint- 
ment. ‘There is many times one Event to both as Solomon speaks Eccl. 
g. 2. when the ablest Agents are frustrated, as well as the weakest: 
and there is sometimes a better Event to weaker Agents, & Instru- 
ments; they prosper in their way, when abler men are disappointed. 
The Race. is sometimes to the Slow, and the Swift lose the Prize. The 
Battel is sometimes to the Weak; and the Strong are put to flight: as 
we have many Instances both in Scripture and common History. 
Weak and simple people have bread enough sometimes, when wise 


356 | The Puritans 


men are in want of their daily bread. NWabal had good store, when 
David was hard put to it. Men of shallow heads grow rich and get 
great Estates, when men of understanding can thrive at no Hand. 
Solomon tells us of the poor wise man; and our Saviour in that Parable, 
Luk. 12. 16, 20. tells us of a rich Fool. It is ordinarily seen in the World, 
that the thriving men in Estates, are none of the most understanding 
& judicious. Many a man hath this world-craft, that yet is a man of 
no deep or solid Understanding. So, many weak, worthless, ignorant, 
empty Persons find Favour with Princes and People: when men of 
Skill, & Learning, & great worth are neglected and despised. This is | 
an Evil under the Sun, & an Error that proceeds from the Ruler, a 
great miscarriage in Government, that Folly is set in great dignity (Fools 
are favoured and advanced) and the Rich, i.e. men of rich Endow- 
ments for Wisdom and Piety, szt zn low places, i.e. are depressed and 
discountenanced; Servants are upon Horses, men of poor servile Spirits 
and Conditions, are set up and honoured, and Princes, i.e. men of great 
worth, walking as Servants upon the Earth. Eccl. 10. 5, 6, 7. So that it 
appeares plainly, that Success doth not alwayes wait upon the Counsels 
and Actions of Persons of great Sufficiency; but they may suffer Dis- , 
appointment, when others are prosperous: Which demonstrates that 
the Issues and Events of Undertakings and Affairs are not determined 
infallibly by the- Qualifications & accomplishments of created Agents, 
and Second Causes. . 

Prop. 4. The Defeat & Disappointment of Agents of great Sufficiency in 
their kind, 1s from the Hapning of Time & Chance unto them. 

Some read it (and the Original will bear it) because, or for toe 
and Chance happeneth to them all. For Explication. 

1. By Time, understand not barely the Duration, or spate of Time, 
which hath no such determining Influence into humane Affairs. But 
Time so @ so Circumstanced. ‘Time is sometimes as much as a special 
Season or Opportunity, when there is a concurrence of Helps, means, 
and advantages for the furthering the Designs and undertakings of 
men. By Time sometimes, we are to understand such a Nick, or Func- 
ture of time, wherein there is a coincidence of Difficulties, disadvantages, 
& hindrances to the effecting of any Business. And this seems the 
meaning of Solomon in the Text. An adverse or evil Time, Ec. 9. 12. 
Sometimes the Times favour the Enterprizes of men, Sometimes they 
frown upon them. At one time, wise and good men stand up for the 
Defence of their Country and Liberties thereof, and prosper in it; 
the Times favour them, there is a concurrence of all manner of Fur- 
therances and advantages: at another time, they may endeavour it, 


This World and the Next 357 


and the Times frown upon them, the Spirit and Humour of the 
People is degenerated; and they swim against the stream, & are lost 
in the Attempt. And we say, Such a Man was worthy of better Times, 
had been a brave man, if He had lived in better Times, his worth 
had been more known and prized, and He would have had better 
success. So when the Time of Judgment upon a People, is come, then 
wrath ariseth against them without remedy; and then the strong man 
may fight for the defence of such.a Country; and the wise man en- 
deavour to deliver the City: but all in vain; they shall miscarry in 
the Undertaking. Aben Ezra (as Mercer tells us) referres this to the 
Conjunctions, and Aspects of the Starres, by which He apprehended 
these inferiour Things were governed. We are sure there are certain 
Periods, and Revolutions of Time, respecting the Prosperity, or Ad- 
versity of Nations, Countries, Cities, Churches, Families, Persons. As 
Time is set to all the Successes, so to all the Defeats and disappoint- 
ments of men; and when this Time comes, no Sufficiency of man can 
withstand Disappointments. 

2. By Chance, Understand contingent and casual Events. Many 
things fall out between the Cup, and the Lip; or otherwise than expect 
or imagine, or can possibly foresee. Some Event chops in, and inter- 
poseth unexpectedly, to cross a man’s Designs, & defeat his Hopes & 
rational Expectations. When Sau/ and his men were compassing David 
and his men, and ready to take them, then comes a Messenger to 
Saul, saying, Haste G come: for the Philistines have Invaded the Land. 
1 Sam. 23. 27. When Haman had plotted the Ruine of the Jews, and 
brought his Design near to an Issue, then the King cannot sleep but 
calls for the Book of the Records of the Chronicles, and they read to 
Him of the good Service of Mordecai, in discovering the Treason that 
was plotted against his Person; and one thing falls in after another, 
to defeat Haman’s cruel design, and ruine the whole fabrick of his 
strong built, and almost perfected Contrivance In this sence Time and 
Chance happens to men of greatest Sufficiency, which they cannot 
either foresee, (Eccl 9. 12.) or prevent, or help themselves against 
them when they come upon them: and hereby their Counsels, and 
Undertakings are defeated and ruined sometimes. 

Prop. 5. Time and Chance which happens to men in the way of their 
Vndertakings, is effectually ordered G governed by the Lord. God is the Lord 
of ‘Time, and Orderer, and Governour of all Contingences. Time and 
Chance that further or hinder the Designs of men, are under the Rule 
and Management of the Lord. His Counsel sets the Times, appoints 
the Chances; His Providence dispenses the Times, and frames the Chances, 


> 


358 The Puritans 


that befall men. The Lord hath in his own power the Dispensation 
of Times, Eph. 1. 10. The Times and Seasons He hath put in his own power, 
Act. 1. 7. He hath such a Dominion over the Times, that He changeth 
Times and Seasons, according to‘his own pleasure. Dan. 2. 31. My Times 
(saith David, Ps. 31. 15. are in thy Hands. He. means the state and 
condition of his Times; his Prosperities, and Adversities; his Successes, . 
and Disappointments; and universally, whatever should befall him in 
the Times that should pass over Him. Moreover, all the Chances 
that happen to men, as the Scripture but now mentioned shews, are 
in the Hand of God. My Times i.e. the Chances of my Times. No 
Contingency, or Emergency, or Accident so casual, but it is ordered 
& governed by the Lord. ‘The Arrow that was shot at a venture, and 
smote Ahab throw the joints of his Harness, was directed at him by 
the Hand of God. So in that case of Man-slaughter, and killing a man 
casually, as if a man be hewing Wood, and his hand fetcheth a stroke 
with the Axe, to cut down a Tree, and the head slippeth from the helve, 
and lighteth upon his Neighbour, that he die, Deut. 19. 5. God is said 
in that case, to deliver that man that is slain, into his hand, Exod. 21. 13. 
God ordereth that sad event. All Casualties in the World, are guided 
by the steady Hand of the great God. Thou (saith David, Ps. 16. 5.) 
maintainest my Lot. ‘The Lord makes and disposes the Lot, or Chance 
of every man, whatever it is. He hath appointed all Times and 
Chances in his Eternal Counsel; and in Tzme executes accordingly, in 
the course of his Providence. 

Prop. 6. The great God hath the absolute and infallible Determination 
of the Successes and Events of all the Operations & Vndertakings of created 
Agents & Second Causes, in his own Power. His Counsel and soveraign 
Will appoints what they shall be, and his Providence (which is not 
determined by any Second Cause: but is the Determiner of them all) 
Executes accordingly. And it must needs be so, if you consider these 
two Particulars, | 

1. God is the Absolute First Cause, and Supream Lord of all. Of Him, 
and to Him, and through Him are all Things, Rom. 11. 36. He that 
understands any thing of God indeed, knows this to be a Truth. Here 
we might be large; as they that are acquainted with the Doctrine of 
Creation and Providence, in Conservation and Gubernation of all Things, 
will readily apprehend: for here we might shew you, 1. That God 
is the absolute first Cause of all the causal power and virtue that is 
in Creatures. He gives them power to act, furnisheth them with a 
Sufficiency for their Operations. He gives Swiftness to the Runner; 
Skill, and Strength, and Courage, to the Souldier. 


cal 


This World and the Next 359 


2. That He supports, and continues the active power of the crea- 
ture. He continues Swiftness, Wisdom, Strength, Courage, as He 
pleaseth. If He withdraw, all is gone. The Swift is lame, or slow-footed, 
the Strong is weak & timorous, the Wise is foolish and besotted, the 
man of Skill, is a meer Bungler at any thing. 3. That He doth by a 
previous Influx excite and stirre up, and actuate the active power of 
the Creature, and set all the wheels agoing. For the most operative, 
active created Virtue, is not a pure Act: but hath some Potentiality 
mixed with it; and therefore cannot put forth it self into Action, 
unless it be set agoing by the first Cause. And the creature cannot be 
the absolute first Cause of any physical action. In Him we live, and 
move, Act. 17. 28. Again. 4. That He determines and applyes Second 
Causes to the Objects of their Actions. When they stand, as it were, 
in Bivio, as it is said of Nebuchadnezzar, when he was marching with 
his Army He stood at the parting of the way, at the head of the two wayes, 
to use Divination, as doubting which way he had best to march; whether 
to Jerusalem, or some other way, Ezek. 21. 21, 22. Then the Lord casts 
the Scale and the Lot, & determines them this way, and not another. 
He doth not only stir up Second Causes to act at large, and set them 
agoing, and leave it to their own Inclination, whither they shall go, 
& what they shall do: but He leads them forth, and determines them 
to this, or that Object. 5. That He cooperates, and workes jointly with 

Second Causes, in producing their Effects. As He predetermins Second 
- Causes, so He concurres with them in their Operations. And this Pre- 
determination, and Concurse is so necessary; that there can be no real 
Effect produced by the Creature without it. And it is a Truth also, 
that when God Improves Second Causes for the production of any 
Effect, He so concurres with them, that He doth withall most im- 
mediately, intimously, and without Dependence upon these Causes 
by which He acts, produce the Entity, or Esse of the Effect. If this be 
considered, it will appear that created Agents, are as it were, God’s 
Instruments, that act as they are acted by Him; and cannot move 
of themselves. The busy, bustling, proud Assyrian was so, Is. 10. 15. 
6. That all the Ataxy, Disorder, Irregularity, moral Evil that 1s found in the 
Actions of Rational Agents, is by His Permission. If it were not the Pleasure 
of God to permit it, no Sin should be in the World, nor in the Actions 
of Men. Though there is no Legal Permission, or allowance of it; (for 
the Law of God forbids it) yet there is a Providential Permission of it. 
God could have kept it out of his World. 7. That He limits and sets 
Bounds to the Actions of Second Causes: what they shall do, and how. farre 
they shall proceed in this or that way. He set bounds to Satan, when he 


360 The Puritans 


had Commission to afflict 7ob. He limits, and restrains the Eruptions 
of the Wrath & Rage of the Churches Adversaries, Ps. 76. 10. He 
sets bounds to the sinfull Actions of Men: He regulates and governs 
all the Actions of Second Causes, as to time, place, degrees, and all 
manner of Circumstances. He is not the Author: but He is the Orderer 
of Sin it self. 8. That He serves Himself, and his own Ends of all Second 
Causes. He makes them all in all their Operations subservient to his 
own Designs: and that not only natural, but rational Agents, that 


act by Counsel. And not only such.of them as are his professed willing 


Servants. Many serve God’s ends beside their Intentions, and against 
their wills. I will do this and that saith God, by the Assyrian, howbeit 
he meaneth not so, Is. 10. 6, 7. Wicked men and Devils do God’s will 
against their own will, and beside their Intentions. Ye thought Evil 
against me (saith Joseph to his Brethren) but God meant it for good Ge. 
Gen. 50. 20. God elicites what good He pleases out of the actions of 
his Creatures. Whatever this or that Agent proposeth to himself, yet 
God alwayes attaineth His Ends. He serves Himself of the very Sins 
of his Creatures, and brings good out of them. He makes that which 
is not Bonum honestum, to be Bonum conducibile: * and though Sin is not 
good; yet, as God orders the matter, it is good, in order to many 
holy Ends, that Sin should be in the World, as Austin observes. 

g. That He useth means in themselves unfit, and improves Agents of them- 
selves insufficient, to bring about his own Purposes & produce marveilous 
Effects. Yea, and it is as easy with Him to do any thing by weak and 
insufficient, as by the ablest & most accomplished Instruments. There 
is no restraint to the Lord to Save by many, or by few. 1 Sam. 14. 6. It is 
nothing with Him to help, whether with many, or with them that have no power. 
2 Chron. 14. 11. Despicable Instruments, sometimes, do great ‘Things 
in His Hand. 10. That He renders the aptest means ineffectual, and the 
Vndertakings of the most sufficient Agents unsuccessful, when He pleases. He 
hath a Negative Voice upon all the Counsels and Endeavours, and 
Active Power of the Creature. He can stop the Sun in its course, and 
cause it to withdraw its shining; He can give check to the Fire, that 
it shall not burn; & to the hungry Lions, that they shall not devour: 
and He can order it so, that the men of might shall sleep their sleep, 
and not find their Hands. He can break the Ranks of the most orderly 
Souldiers, take away courage from the stoutest hearts, send a pannick 
Fear into a mighty Host, and defeat the Counsels of the wisest Leaders 
and Conducters. He can blow upon, and blast the likeliest Under- 
takings of the ablest Men. In a word: the Lord being the Absolute 
First Cause, and supream Governour of all his Creatures, and all their 


This World and the Next 361 


Actions; though He hath set an Order among his Creatures, this shall 
be the cause of that effect, &c. yet He himself is not tied to that Order; 
but Interrupts the course of it, when He pleases. ‘The Lord reserves a 
Liberty to Himself to interpose, and to Umpire matters of Success 
and Event, contrary to the Law and common Rule of Second Causes. 
And though He ordinarily concurreth with Second Causes according 
to the Law given and Order set; yet sometimes there is in his Provi- 
dence a Variation and Digression. Though He hath given Creatures 
power to act; and Man, to act as a Cause by Counsel, and hath furnished 
him with active Abilities; yet He hath not made any Creature Master 
of Events; but reserves the Disposal of Issues, and Events to Himself. 
Herein the absolute Soveraignty and Dominion of God appears. 

2. Otherwise, the Lord might possibly suffer real Disappointment, and be 
defeated of his Ends in some Instances. He might be cross’d in his Designs, 
if any of his Creatures could doe what they will, without absolute De- 
pendence upon Him. He could not be sure of his Ends, & what He 
designs in the World, if He had not command of all Events that may 
further or hinder them. If there were any active power in Creatures 
that He cannot controll; or any one event that is out of his Reach, 
and absolutely in the Creature’s power, exempted from his providential 
Command, it would be possible that He might be defeated of his Ends, 
and so far unhappy, as to his voluntary Happiness, which results from his 
~ having his Pleasure done in the World, and compassing all his Ends in 
the works of Creation and Providence. God hath made all Things, 
ruleth all Things, and manageth all Things according to the Counsel 
of his Will, in a way of subserviency to Himself, and his own Occasions: 
which He could not do universally and infrustrably, if He had not the 
absolute and infallible Determination of all Events in his own Hand. 
But His Counsel shall stand, and He will do all his Pleasure: Is. 46. 10. Thus 
much for the Explication, and Confirmation of the Doctrine. 


USE I. Of Instruction, in these Particulars. 

1. We see what a poor dependent, nothing-Creature Proud Man is: Depend- 
ing absolutely upon God for his Being, Actions, and the Success of them. 
Men of greatest Sufficiency cannot get their own Bread, or bring any 
thing to effect in their own strength. Let their Abilities be what they 
will (Swfiness, for the Race; Strength, for the Battel; Wisdom, for getting 
their Bread, “&c.) yet they shall stand them in no stead without the 
concurrence and Blessing of God. Man saith, he will do this and that: 
but he must ask God leave first. He saith, To day or to morrow I will 
go to such a place, and buy and sell, & get gain; whereas he knows 


362 The Puritans 


not what shall be: but it shall certainly be as the Lord will. The way 
of man is not in himself; it 1s not in man that walketh to direct his steps, nor 
perform any thing that he purposeth, without divine Concurrence, or 
Permission. He hath not the Success of any of his actions in his own 
power; nor doth he know that any thing he doth shall prosper. One 
would wonder poor dependent man should be so proud! Any little thing © 
lifts him up. When the Souldier on such occasions as these, is in his 
Bravery, in his military Garb drest up for the purpose, with his Buffe 
Coat, his Scarfe, his rich Belt, his*Arms, a good Horse under him, O what a, 
goodly Creature is he in his own Eyes! and what wonders can he do 
in his own conceit! and yet he hath as absolute need of God’s Assistance, 
if he go forth to Battel, as any naked, unarmed man. He cannot move 
a step, or fetch his next breath, or bring his hand to his mouth, or leap 
over a straw, or do any thing, without help from God, in whose hand 
his breath is, and whose are all his wayes Dan. 5. 23. It’s strange to see how 
the hearts of men are lifted up with nothing! O cease ye from Man: for 
wherein is he to be accounted of ? 

2. We see that there is, and there is not Chance in the World. Chance 
there is, in respect of Second Causes: (so some’ things fall out Kara 
Lvykupiay as our Saviour speaks Luk. 10. 31.) but no Chance as to the 
first Cause. That piece of Atheism, and Heathensm ascribing things to 
Fortune and Chance, is hardly rooted out of the minds of men, that are 
or should be better instructed and informed. The Philistines when they 
were plagued, could not tell whether God had done it, or a meer Chance 
happened to them, 1 Sam. 6. 9. They understood not, that what was a 
Chance to them, was ordered by the Providence of God. Truth is, Chance is 
something that falls out beside the Scope, Intention, and foresight of 
Man, the Reason and cause whereof may be hid from him; and so it 
excludes the Counsel of Men; but it doth not exclude the Counsel and 
Providence of God; but is ordered and governed thereby. And it is so 
farre from being Chance to God, that there is as much (if not more) 
of the Wisdom, and Will, and Power of God appearing in matters of 
Chance and Contingency, as in any other Events. 

3. We see here something of the Power, and Greatness, and Glory of God 
appearing in his Efficiency, whereby He works all in all. As He is himself In- 
dependent, so all Things have an absolute Dependence on Him. He 
gives Success, or causeth Disappointment, as he pleaseth. So that men 
are wholly beholden to Him for all the good they enjoy: for Victory, 
for Bread, for Riches, for Favour and Acceptance, for all. Nothing 
comes to pass without his Permission, if it be moral Evil; without his 
Concurse and cooperation, yea, Predetermination, if it be moral or 


This World and the Next 363 


physical Good, or penal Evil. In him we live and move, and have our 
Being. The Counsels of the ablest Statesmen, how rational soever, shall 
not prosper without him: Ministers, how sufficient soever, pious, 
learned, industrious, zealous, shall convert no man, edify no man, 
comfort & establish no man, without Him. 1 Cor. 3. 6, 7. Though 
Scholars study hard, they shall make no proficiency without the Blessing 
of God. The Merchant may trade, and project rationally, and yet shall 
not grow rich upon it, unless God give him success. It is God that 
maketh Zebulum rejoice in his Going out, and Issachar in his Tents: that 
crowns the labours of Seamen, Merchants, and Husbandmen with 
Success. Except the Lord build the House &c Ps. 127. 1. Training Days, 
Artillery Days, tho’ of great use, and very necessary; yet are all in vain, 
unless the Lord bless. He must instruct, and teach, and accomplish 
you; otherwise the help of your expert Officers, and your own endeav- 
ours to learn War, will signify nothing. And when valiant Souldiers 
come to fight; whatever Skill, and Strength, and Courage, and Con- 
duct, and Advantages they have, yet they will be worsted, if the Lord 
do not give Success. We should learn hence to admire the Power and 
Greatness of God. It is a lamentable thing, that He that doth all, is 
thought to do nothing! He can work without Means, by insufficient 
Means; & blast the ablest Instruments: and yet is little minded in the 
World. God gives forth a Challenge to Idols, Do good, if you can, or do 
evil. Isai. 41. 23. It is God’s Prerogative to do good or evil, i.e. not the 
evil of Sin (which argues Defect and Impotency; and comes not within 
the compass of Omnipotency to do it) but of Punishment. God only can 
give good, or award bad Success; and Reward or Correct and punish his 
Creatures that way. Who is he that saith (what Man or Angel?) & it 
cometh to pass, when the Lord commandeth it not? Lam. 3. 37. O 
see, and adore the Greatness of God in this respect! He works all 
Rivals 21. 

First, Whatever your own Sufficiencie may be, yet acknowledge God 
thankfully, as if you had been wholly Insufficient: for your Sufficiencie 
is of God, and He could have disappointed notwithstanding. The 
ground of our Unthankfulness for all good Issues and Events of Affairs 
and Undertakings, is, because we do not see the good Hand of God 
dispensing all to us. We make too little of God, and too much of our 
selves; either by thinking we deserve better than God hath done for us 
(Hence a proud Heart is never thankful to God or Man) or by thinking 
we have done all, or more than we have done, toward the getting of this 
or that Mercy. We put our selves too much in the place of God; as if 
it were in our power to make our Endeavours Successful, and to give a 


364 | The Puritans 


good Effect and Issue to them, according to our Desire. We get up into 
God’s Throne, and usurp upon his Prerogative, and assume that which 
is peculiar to Him, when we presume we can bring any thing to pass, 
or do any thing successfully in our Own strength. If we make our selves 
the only and absolute first Causes of our good Success; no marvel we 
make our selves the last End also, and deny God the glorie. O do not 
ascribe good Success to your own Wit, and Parts, and Policy, and 
Industrie, and say, my Nimbleness hath won the Race; my Conduct 
and Courage hath won the Battel; my Wisom hath gotten me this 
Bread; my Understanding hath heaped up this Wealth; my Dexteritie, 
and Skill, and Complaisance, and agreeable Conversation hath pro- 
cured me the Favour of Rulers or People; my Parts or Study hath 
given me this Learning. Say not with the Vapouring Assyrian, By the 
Strength of My Hand I have done it, and by My Wisdom: for I am Prudent. 
Isa. 10. 13. Let not this be so much as the secret Language of your 
Hearts. Say not, as Nebuchadnezzar, This 1s great Babylon, which I have 
built, and so derogate from God that works all in all; lest He turn you 
a grazing, as He did him, with the Beasts of the Field, and teach you 
better Manners by some severe Correction. Do not Sacrifice to your own 
Nets, and burn Incense to your Drags; as uf by them your portion were fat, 
and meat plenteous (Hab. 1. 16.) but ascribe all to God. There is that deep 
Wickedness in the Hearts of Men, that if they get any thing by any 
Fraud, and crafty fetches, and overreaching of their Brethren, in a 
sinful way, they will be too readie to attribute that to the Providence 
and Blessing of God, and say, it was God’s Providence that cast it in 
upon them; when they have been craftily and sinfully designing it, 
and bringing it about: but when they have gotten any thing honestly, 
by their Wisdom and Prudence, and Industrie, they are too ready to 
forget Providence, and ascribe all to themselves. See the Evil of this, 
and remember that no People in the World have greater cause of 
Thankfulness than we have to God, who hath governed Time and 
Chance on our behalf marvellously. O Bless Him for good Success, not 
only when you cannot but acknowledge your own Insufficiency; but also 
when you have apprehensions of the greatest Sufficiency of Second 
Causes. And Blessed for ever be the Lord, who hath Pleasure in the Prosperity 
of his Servants, Psal. 35. 27. 

Secondly, Acknowledge God also in all your Frustrations and Disappoint- 
ments, so as to resent his Disposals and Dispensations towards you in a gracious 
manner. We have met with manie Disappointments in the late Warre, 
and in other respects. We should see God in all. When He blasts our 
Corn, defeats our Souldiers, frowns upon our Merchants, and we are 


This World and the Next 365 


disappointed; now acknowledge the Hand of God, Ordering Time, and 
Chance according to his Good Pleasure. Justifie God in all, and bear 
such Frustrations patientlie. When you have done your Dutie, be quiet, 
though the Event doth not answer your Endeavours, and Hopes. Take 
heed of quarrelling at Gop’s Disappointments. Do you know VVhom 
you have to do with? I was dumb, I opened not my mouth; because Thou 
didst it. Psal. 89. 9. If we look at faultie Instruments, or at meer Chance 
onely, we shall be apt to murmur. It is the observation of One, That 
the Reason why men are more apt to fly out into Cursings and Blasphemies for 
their bad Luck (as they call it) in those Vnlawful Games of Cards, and Dice, 
than in other Exercises, that are governed by Art and Skill, ariseth partly from 
the very nature of those Games: because when they have tried their Lot or Chance 
over and over, and their Expectation 1s deceived, they think that that Power that 
governs the Lot or Chance, is Adverse to them. They cannot blame their own 
Art or Skill, when no Art can infallibly determine the Event; but curse their bad 
Fortune. And if we look at Disappointments, as our bad Fortune and 
Chance onely, looking no further, we shall be apt to fret and quarrel: 
but if we do indeed see God ordering our Lot for us, it may and ought 
to silence us. When Magistrates have done their Duty, according to 
the Law of God, and of the Country, and endeavoured faithfully to 
give check & stop to the Inundation of Profaneness and Heresy; and yet 
the bad Genius of the Times, and degenerous Humour of the People, 
and this or that Emergency happens, that frustrates the Success of 
their Counsels and Endeavours; truly they may sit down and mourn 
indeed; but yet humbly submit to the All-disposing Providence of God. 
When Ministers have laboured faithfully, and yet Israel is not gathered, 
and their Labours seem to be in vain, not successful in converting 
Sinners; they may weep in secret indeed; but yet patiently bear the 
Unsuccessfulness of their Ministry from the Hand of God. When Soul- 
diers have shewed themselves valiant, and faithful, and done what they 
can; and yet are worsted: They must acknowledge God’s Hand in it, 
and that the Battel is the Lord’s. 1 Sam. 17. 47. who governeth the Warre, 
and determins the Victory on what side He pleaseth. All men have 
Briars and Thorns springing up in the way of their Callings, as well as 
Husbandmen; and meet with Difficulties and Crosses therein. Get the 
Spirit David had 2 Sam. 15. 25, 26. and so acknowledge God in every 
thing, as to submit humbly to his Disposals, even when they are Ad- 
verse, and cross to your Desires and Expectations. 

Thirdly, Be always Prepared for Disappointments. Do not promise your 
selves Success from the Sufficiency of Second Causes: God may de- 
termine otherwise. ... Events are not in the Creatures power. The 


366 The Puritans 


Lord sometimes disappoints men of greatest Sufficiency, overrules and 
controlls their Counsels and Endeavours, and blasts them strangely. 
Time and Chance happens to them. If Adam had stood; though he would 
not have had the Determination of Events & Successes in his own hand; 
yet God would have determined them for him according to his hearts- 
desire: and he should never have been disappointed. But since the Fall, 
as no Man hath power to determine Events (which is God’s Preroga- 
tive) so it is just with God that every man’should meet with Crosses 
and Disappointments; and this is the Fruit of the Curse, under which 
all natural men ly: and as for the People of God; though they are 
delivered from the Curse of the Law, in the Formality of it; so that noth- 
ing befalls them as a Curse, how cross soever it be: yet they are not yet 
absolutely delivered from the Matter of the Curse, as appears by the 
Afflictions they meet with, and Death it self. And indeed it makes 
sometimes for the glory of God, to disappoint Men of greatest Abilities. 
When men do not see and own God; but attribute Success to the 
Sufficiency of Instruments, It’s time for God to maintain his own Right 
(as Dr. Preston > speaks) and shew that He gives, or denies Success, 
according to His own good Pleasure. God is much seen in Controlling 
the ablest Agents, & blasting their Enterprizes; yea more, many times, 
than in backing them, & blessing their Endeavours in an ordinary 
Course of Providence. Herein the Wisdom of God is much seen. It is 
best, sometimes, it should be so, with respect to God’s Int’rest and 
Glory. His Power also appears in giving Check to the Ablest Instru- 
ments, and turning all their Designs another way than they Intended. 
His Mercy also to his People, is seen herein; for it is best for them, 
in some Cases, to be defeated and disappointed. His Justice also ap- 
pears herein, in his correcting and punishing the Self-confident, sinful 
Creature with unexpected Disappointments. So that it is our Wis- 
dom, to look for Changes and Chances, some Occurrents and Emer- 
gencies that may blast our Undertakings, that Faith and Prayer may 
be kept agoing, and lest if such Frustrations befall us unexpectedly, we 
either fly out against God, or faint and sink in Discouragements. At 
the first going out of our Forces, in the beginning of the Warre, what 
great Apprehensions were there of speedy Success and ending of the 
Warre; that it was but going and Appearing, and the Enemy would 
be faced down: As if the first News from our Souldiers should be, 
Venimus, Vidimus, Vicimus.t And several times after, great probability 
of concluding that unhappy War; and yet all disappointed, contrary 
to Expectation.* VVhen there is therefore greatest Probability of Suc- 
cess, yet remember there may be Disappointment; and provide for it, 


This World and the Next 367 


that you may not be surprised thereby. This may be good Counsel 
to men of projecting Heads, that are wont to be very confident that 
they see their way farre before them: but they do not know what Tzme 
and Chance may happen: This may check the Confidence of Man, 
and teach us not to promise our selves great Things, or build upon 
this or that Event or Enjoyment for time to come. Labour to be pre- 
pared and provided for Disappointments. 


JOSHUA MOODY, 1633-1697 


[Joshua Moody was born in Ipswich, Suffolk; his father was a 
saddler, who migrated to Ipswich, Massachusetts, in 1634, and then 
to Newbury. He graduated from Harvard College in 1653, was a 
teaching fellow in 1655; in 1658 he began to preach in Portsmouth, 
New Hampshire, though he could not get a church formally organized 
until 1671. In 1682 he became a popular hero by stoutly resisting the 
attempts of Governor Cranfield to force him to administer the sacra- 
ments according to the rites of the Church of England. He was sentenced 
to six months in jail, served thirteen weeks, and was forbidden to 
preach. He came to Boston, assisted James Allen at the First Church, 
declined the presidency of Harvard and a call from New Haven. Still 
living in Boston in 1688-1689, he was a leader of the revolution against 
Andros. He resisted the witchcraft frenzy, actually aiding two of the 
accused to escape. He returned to Portsmouth in 1693. Cf. Sibley, Bio- 
graphical Sketches; Sprague, Annals. This text is from Souldiery Spiritualized, 
Or the Christian Souldier Orderly, and Strenuously Engaged in the Spiritual Warre 
(Cambridge, 1674), an artillery election sermon preached in Boston 
on June 1, 1674; it is unusual among Puritan sermons for the elaborate 
and sustained metaphor upon which it is built. Not only does Moody 
portray the whole of human existence under the figure of war and 
battle, but he takes up in succession the technical commands of the 
parade ground and of formation and develops a spiritual significance 
for each. | 


SOULDIERY SPIRITUALIZED 


S FOR my manner of speaking in the using of many Metaphorical 
Expressions, and Allusions unto the Calling, Postures, and motions 


of Souldiers . . . though it may possibly grate upon some Critical and 
captious Ears, yet I hope it will be at least excusable or tolerable to 
your selves. ... Had I been to handle the same Head of Divinity on 


another occasion and before another Auditor, I could and should have 


368 The Puritans 


sought out other words, . . . I conceive a man should take Measure of 
his Theam to cut out his Language by, and make it up something 
according to the mode of his Auditory. ... 

The Lord takes care to make us spiritual in all our Imployments, 
by spiritualizing all our Imployments. Yea, all our Relations and Con- 
ditions, as well as Imployments, are so improved to our Hands by the 
Spirit of God in his Word as that they may be useful both as Monitors 
and Helpers to mind us of, and further us in those matters that are of 
most solemn and momentous, because of Eternal concernment... | 
From the King upon the Throne to the Hewer of wood and drawer 
of water, the Lord is in his word teaching us by such familiar and known 
Metaphors taken from those Callings that we are versed in, in so much 
that all sorts of men may say concerning the voice of God in his word, 
as they in another Case Acts. 2. 8. 11. How is it that we hear from 
thence in our own Tongue wherein we have been bred, and in the 
proper dialect of those Imployments to which we have been bred, the 
wonderful Counsels of God declared to us: the Lords manner of speak- 
ing as it helps us to the understanding of what he saith, so his love and 
Care therein should quicken us to the practice of what we under- 
stands." 

Know, that Death our Enemy is upon a swift and speedy march towards 
us, and we are hastening toward him, and therefore must necessarily 
meet quickly, between this and that the Time is but short, over a 
few dayes (moments it may be) the day will discover what we have been, 
and done. We are now all of us training up under the doctrine and 
Discipline of the Lords House, and possibly (you, probably) in this Life 
he may put us to the Trial what we have gained, some such plunge 
we may be brought unto, as wherein we shall have occasion to use all 
the Skill that ever we have had an opportunity of getting. He may 
call us to combate with Persecution, Poverty, Reproach, Bereavements of Re- 
lations, &c. or at the utmost Death will try us all, Death, (I say,) which 
among men of all Ages and Sexes takes promiscuously according to the 
Commission which the Lord of Life and Death hath given it, though or- 
dinarily, those that are in the Front are nextly for present Service, 
who discharge, and Fall off, and make way for the next to be Front. 
So one Generation passeth away, and another comes in its Room Eccl. 1. 4. 
ever in motion, going off, and coming on the stage each hour and 
movement. I may not unfitly liken the whole Race of Mankind, or all 
the men in the world to a well-Marshall’d Army, (well Marshall’d I say, 
for notwithstanding all the seeming, and in themselves the real Con- 
fusions that there are, the Lord orders all wisely, and at the end will 


This World and the Next 369 


discover when all is put together, beautifully too) upon a march to meet 
with Death, where the first Rank discharge, (yea, and are discharged too) 
Fall off, yea, Fall down, never to return or rise more, and then the next 
is first, and so on: there are Old men, middle-Aged, and Young ones, in the 
Front, Center, and Rear of the Army, The Old Fall off, the middle-Aged 
Advance, the Younger are drawing after, now though sometimes here and 
there one of the younger ones may be pickt out of the Reer by a Shott out 
of Deaths murthering piece, yet we commonly say, and truly, Young ones 
may die, but Old ones must. It’s a usual word of Command among 
you, The First Rank make ready, they especially should be ready; but it 
is a duty for us all to watch and pray alwayes, that we may be accounted 
worthy to stand when the Son of man shall come. Let all our Care 
and motion through-out our whole Life tend to the fitting us for a 
safe, Honourable, and comfortable Exit at last, that when we come to 
look Death in the Face, or to look back, (and we should often look back) 
upon our Life past, we may neither be afraid, nor ashamed to die. 


SAMUEL WILLARD, 1640-1707 


[For life of Willard see p. 250. The first selection is from The Child’s 
Portion (Boston, 1684), pp. 66-70. The second selection is from The 
High Esteem Which God hath of the Death of lis Saints (Boston, 1683), 
pp. 14-18, a funeral sermon upon John Hull, the famous mintmaster 
of the colony, the father-in-law of Samuel Sewall. The third selection 
is from The Peril of the Times Displayed (Boston, 1700), pp. 90-93; the 
passage is representative of the wails over the moral declension of 
New England that make up a large part of most sermons at the end 
of the seventeenth century. | 


SAINTS NOT KNOWN BY EXTERNALS 


1. The reason why the Children of God are so little regarded here 
in the World; it is because the World knows not who they are, nor 
what they are born unto: Their great Glory for the present is within; 
outwardly they look like other men, they eat, drink, labour, converse 
in earthly imployments, as others do; the communion which they 
have with God in all of these, is a secret thing: They are Sick, Poor, 
Naked, Distressed like other men; those inward supports which they 
have under all those exercises, are remote from publick view: They 
dy, and are buried under the Clods, and their bodyes putrifie and 
rot like other men; and none see those joyes that their souls are entred 


370 The Puritans 


into, nor that guard of Angels which comes as a Convoy, and carryes 
them into Abraham’s bosom: Nay, they have their sins, their spots, 
their imperfections and weaknesses here, as well as other men; but 
their tears, repentance, secret mournings, and renewals of Faith, and 
restorings to peace and soul-comfort, are secret. 
And hence, 

Though the Righteous Man be indeed surpassingly more excellent 

than his neighbour, yet is he not thought so to be: Whereas, did the 


World see and understand, whose sons they are, what inheritances | 


they are the undoubted heirs of, and what are those Gloryes they shall 
ere long be made to possess, it would alter their opinion, and make 
them afraid of them, and not dare to do them any wrong. How fearful 
was Abimestech of Abraham, when God did but tell him he was a Prophet? 
Gen. 20. 7, 8. 

2. Here we see the reason why the People of God are often so doubt- 
ful, disquiet, discontent, and afraid to dy (I put things together) The 
ground of all this is because they do not as yet see clearly what they 
shall be: It would be a matter of just wonderment to see the Children 
of God so easily and often shaken, so disturbed and perplexed in hours 
of Temptation, were it not from the consideration, that they at present 
know so little of. themselves or their happiness: Sometimes their son- 
ship it self doth not appear to them, but they are in the dark, at a 
loss about the evidencing of it to the satisfaction of their own minds; 
and from hence it is that many doubtings arise, and their souls are 
disquieted. Sometimes their present sufferings look bigger in their 
thoughts, than the conceptions or apprehensions which they enter- 
tain of their future Glory, these things being near, and the other looked 
on at a distance, and hence they out-weigh, in their rash judgements, 
and now they are disquiet and discontent, and say with him, Psal. 
73. 13. I have cleansed my heart in vain, and washed my hands in innocency. 
And usually in their good frames, they apprehend more of the sweet- 
ness of present Communion with God in his Ordinances, than of that 
blessed immediate communion in Glory; and this makes them, with 
good Hezekiah, to turn away their faces from the messages of death 
and change: All these things are arguments of the weak sight and 
dark thoughts which we here have of the things of another world: 
which yet, it is the holy pleasure of God, that it shall be so a while, 
for the advancing of his own ends in his Saints. 

3. Learn hence a reason why the present sufferings of God’s Children 
can neither argue against, nor yet prejudice their felicity: for the time 
is not yet come wherein they are to appear like themselves: Joseph’s 


ee 


This World and the Next 371 


prisoned condition, and prison robes set him never the further off 
from his preferment in Pharaoh’s Court; but were indeed the very 
harbingers of it: When the appointed time for the manifestation of 
the Sons of God shall come, he can fetch them out in hast, change 
them in the twinkling of an eye, and cloath them upon with all that 
excellency and splendid Glory, whereby, they who were but the other 
day lying among the pots, shall with their dazling lustre outshine the 
Sun in the Firmament. It is the Almighty’s good pleasure, that their 
life, for the present, should be hid with Christ in God: But yet he hath 
his time, and will take his opportunity to reveal and make it known. 

4. This teacheth us that the Glory of the sons of God must needs 
be wonderfully and astonishingly great: For why? Have they not al- 
ready in hand, that which surpasses the knowledge of all the world, 
and which is in value transcendently more worth than all the Crowns 
and Kingdoms, and Gloryes of it? Do they not live upon, and satisfie 
their souls with marrow and fatness here, Psal. 63. 5. Are they not 
here replenished with the fatness of God’s house? Psal. 36. 8. Who, 
but he that enjoys it, can declare what an happiness it is to enjoy 
peace with God, and fellowship with Christ, assurance of his love, and 
consolation of his spirit? Who, but he that hath felt it, can tell what 
it is to have the love of God shed abroad in his heart, and in his Soul 
to hear the sweet voice of Pardon, and promises of Glory? to ly all 
night in the bosom of Christ, and have his left hand underneath his 
head, and his right hand imbracing of him? And yet he that knows 
all this doth not know what he shall be: These are but the displayes 
of the outward Temple, or holy place; what then is to be seen in the 
holy of Holies? These are but drops, and rivulets which come in Pipes, 
and in little portions; how glorious a thing then must it needs be to 
dwel at the fountain, and swim for ever in those bankless, and bot- 
tomless Oceans of Glory? How happy then are the dead in Christ, 
who are now seeing, tasting, knowing and experiencing these things? 


THE DEATH OF A SAINT 


1. When the Saints die let us mourn: And there is no greater Argu- 
ment to be found that we should excite our selves to mourn by, then 
the remembrance that they were Saznis: it should more effect our 
hearts at the thoughts of this that they were Saints, then that they were 
our Father, or Mother, or Brethren, or nearest or dearest Friends, for 
this is that which makes their loss to be greater than any other Re- 
lation doth or can; others are natural, but these are pious Tears that 


co 


372 The Puritans 


are shed upon this account: Another Man may be a private loss when 
he is gone, his Family or his Neighbours, or Consorts may miss him; 
but a Saint, though he be a private Christian, is yet, when he dies a, 
publick loss, and deserves the tears of Israel; how much more than 
when he hath been a Saint providentially put into a capacity of being, 
and by Grace helpt and enabled to be a publick benefit by the Orb 
he moved in? when a Saint Dies there is manifold ground of Mourning; 
there is then a Pillar pluckt out of the Building, a Foundation Stone 
taken out of the Wall, a Man removed out of the Gap; and now it . 
is to be greatly feared that God is departing, and Calamities are coming, 
and are not these things to be lamented? 

2. When the Saints die beware of irregular Mourning: though we are 
to lament their Death, yet we must beware that it be after the right 
manner: a dying Saint may say to his weeping Friends that stand 
round about, wringing their hands, after the same Language that 
Christ did to those weeping Women, Luk. 23. 27, 28, 29. Daughters 
of jerusalem, weep not for me, but for your selves, and your Children, &c. 
It is we and not they that are indangered and endamaged by it: we 
may therefore weep for our selves, and there is good reason for it, 
but to mourn for them is superfluous. Is their Death precious in Gods? 
let it not be miserable in our esteem: and tell me you whose hearts 
throb, and eyes run over with sorrow, is it not a precious thing to 
be asleep in Jesus? to ly in the lap of his providence, and rest from the 
labours and sorrows of a troublesome World? to be laid out of the 
noise of the whistling Winds, and feel none of the impetuosity of 
those Storms and Tempests that are blowing abroad? to be out of the 
sight and hearing of the rolling and dashing waves of the roaring Sea? 
to sleep out the rest of the tempestuous night of this World, standing 
in the inner Chamber of Gods Providence, in answer to that sweet 
invitation? Isai. 26. 22. Come my People, enter into iy Chambers, and 
shut thy doors about thee, &c.... 

3. Is the death of the Saints precious in Gods sight? let it be so in ours too. 
They are not to be accounted for contemptible things which God sets 
an high value upon; and it is our wisdom to think and speak of per- 
sons and things as God doth: we ought not to slight the death of the 
righteous, and speak meanly of it, as of a thing that is little momentous: 
I am sure their arrival at Heaven is there taken notice of as a thing 
worthy of observation; and shall not their departure be regarded? 
they are welcomed into the Palace of delight with Panegyricks; and 
shall then be hence dismissed with no more but a sorry saying, there 
is now a good Man gone, and he will be missed in the Family, or 


This World and the Next 373 


the Church to which he once belonged? we should embalm the memory 
of the Saints with the sweet smelling Spices that grew in their own 
Gardens, and pick the chiefest Flowers out of those Beds to strew their 
Graves withal; we should remember and make mention of them with 
honourable thoughts and words: and though it be now grown a Nick- 
name of contempt among wicked and prophane Men, yet count it 
the most orient Jewel in their Crown, the most odoriferous and pleasant 
Flower in their Garland, that we can say of them that they lived 
and died Saints; all other Eschutcheons will either wear away, or 
be taken down, every other monument will become old, and grow 
over with the Moss of time, and their Titles, though cut in Brass, 
will be Canker-eaten and illegible: this onely will endure and be fresh 
and Flourishing, when Marble it self shall be turned into common dust. 

Such an one it is whom we have now lost; and Oh that we knew 
how great a loss we have sustained in him! they are little things to 
be put into the account, and weigh but light in the commendations 
we have to give him; to say, This Government hath lost a Magis- 
trate; this Town hath lost a good Benefactor; this Church hath lost 
an honourable Member; his Company hath lost a worthy Captain; 
his Family hath lost a loving and kind Husband, Father, Master; the 
Poor have lost a Liberal and Merciful Friend; that nature had fur- 
nished him with a sweet and affable Disposition, and even temper; 
that Providence had given him a prosperous and Flourishing Portion 
of this Worlds Goods; that the love and respect of the People had 
lifted him up to places of honour and preferment; this, this outshines 
them all; that he was a Saint upon Earth; that he lived like a Saint 
here, and died the precious Death of a Saint, and now is gone to rest 
with the Saints in glory: this hath raised those Relicks of his above 
common dust, and made them precious dust. When Conscience of 
duty stimulated me to perform my part of his Exequies, and put me 
upon it to do him honour at his Death; methoughts Justice required, 
and envy it self would not nibble at this Character: and if the Tree 
be to be known by its Fruits, his works shall praise him in the Gates: 
For his constant and close secret Communion with God (which none 
but Hypocrites are wont to do with the sound of a Trumpet) such 
as were most intimate with him, have known and can testifie: the 
care which he had to keep up constant Family Worship, in reading 
of the Scriptures, and praying in his Family (from which no business 
publick or private could divert him) was almost now unparalleld; 
the honourable respect he bore to God’s holy Ordinances, by dili- 
gently attending upon them, and esteeming highly of God’s Servants 


374 The Puritans 


for their work sake, and care that he used to live the Truths which 
he heard from time to time, was very singular: the exemplariness of 
his Life and Converse among Men, and the endeavours which he used 
to shew forth the Graces of the Spirit, not being ashamed of Christ, 
nor being willing to be a shame unto him; let all that knew him bear 
witness of: his meek boldness in reproving Sin, and gentle faithfulness 
in endeavouring to win Sinners as he had opportunity, is known to 
such as lay in his way: His constancy in all these whiles times have 
changed, and many Professors have degenerated, when he strove to 
grow better as the times grew worse, will speak the sincerity of his 
Profession: his living above the World, and keeping his heart dis- 
entangled, and his mind in Heaven, in the midst of all outward oc- 
casions and urgency of Business, bespake him not to be of this World, 
but a Pilgrim on the Earth, a Citizen of Heaven: In a word, he was 
a true Nathaniel. 

But God hath taken him from us, and by this stroak given us one 
more sad prognostick of misery a coming: when there are but a few 
Saints in the World, and those die apace too, what is to be thought 
to be at the door? I dare say his Death was precious in Gods sight, 
and he had some holy end in taking him away just now, who might 
probably have lived many years, and done much more service’ for 
God in his Generation: I shall not make it my work to Prophesie; 
the Lord grant we do not all know it too soon to our cost. Mean time 
let us have such in remembrance, and labour to be followers of them 
_ who through Faith and Patience do now inherit the promises, and 
that will be the best way to divert the Omen: Let us account the Saints 
precious whiles they live, and God will not begrutch them to us: but 
if we by contempt, obloquy, and wickedly grieving their Righteous 
Souls, make their lives a burden to them; if they cannot live in honour 
among Men, they shall die in favour with God, and he will make their — 
death a precious gain to them, though it be a direful presage of a 
great inundation of sad Calamities coming upon those whom they 
leave behind them. 


DEGENERATING NEW ENGLAND 


CONFEss that it must be granted, that in the best times, and in 
i places where the power of Godliness is most flourishing, there 
have been, and will be those that have not the fear of God before 
their eyes: there were so in the times of the greatest Reformation that 
we read of in the Book of God. In this world we must expect that 


This World and the Next 37.5 


Wicked men will be mixed with the Godly, and such as will dare to shew 
their wickedness in their Lives, and not be afraid to Transgress in a 
Land of Uprightness. But when such are not countenanced, but due 
testimony is born against them; when they are contemned in the 
places where they live, and a note of infamy and scandal is put upon 
them; this will not be charged on such a people for Apostasy: But 
when such sins grow frequent, and those that have taken on themselves 
a name of being Religious, begin to indulge themselves herein; and 
men that allow themselves in such things are not Reproached for it, 
but are in as good Credit as the best, it then becomes a bad symptom, 
and saith that the times are declining and perilous. Much more when 
such as these will undertake to justify, and patronize such things: and 
are there not sad complaints made on this account? I shall here in- 
stance only in some that are more notorious. Are not Gods Sabbaths 
wofully neglected? How little care is there used in making of due 
preparation for them? How wofully can such as would be esteemed 
Godly, encroach upon holy time, and be engaged, either in secular 
business, or in vain Company, and possibly in publick houses, when 
they should be at home, in their Closets, or with their Families, Sanc- 
tifying of Gods day, and shewing of the Honourable esteem they have 
for it? And I am well satisfyed, that where the strict Observation of Gods 
Sabbath is lost, there the Power of Godliness is gone. How much complaint 
is there made of woful Dishonesty in their dealings, practised by such 
as can talk high of their Religion? How many fallacious tricks they 
can use in their Commerce? How deceitful in their Labour? How 
false to their words and promises? as if dissembling and lying were no 
reproach to the name of Christians. How many Intemperate Church 
Members are there reported to be, who spend their precious time in 
frequenting Publick Houses, and keeping of loose and lewd Company? 
who can come to the Lords Table on the Sabbath, and wrong them- 
selves by excessive Drinking on the week days? How much Animosity, 
Contention, and implacable bitterness of Spirit, breaking forth in in- 
decent words and carriages, between such as are bound in the strongest 
Evangelical ties to Love one another, and meekly to bear with each others 
infirmities? How much raising, spreading, and receiving of Slanders and 
Defamations one of another; contrary to that Charity which ought to 
Cover a Multitude of sins? These, and a great many more of like nature, 
. . 80 far as they spread and prevail, and begin to grow common, are 
an ill Omen; for, they are indisputable denials of the power of Godli- 
ness, at least in the vigour of it, in those who are Guilty of them, for 
that teacheth men to Live Soberly, Righteously and Godly. ; 


376 The Puritans 


SAMUEL SEWALL, 1652-1730 


[Samuel Sewall’s father first came to New England in 1634, but 
returned to England, where Samuel was born. ‘The family came back 
to New England after the Restoration. Samuel graduated from Har- 
vard College in 1671 and was chosen fellow shortly afterwards; for a 
few years he hesitated between the ministry and a more secular calling, 
but his mind was made up for him when he married Hannah, the 
daughter of John Hull, the wealthiest man in the colony; from that 
time Sewall was a man of substance, with an estate to administer, 
and with leisure to devote to learned hobbies and the public service. 
He was manager of the colony’s printing press, 1681-84, deputy in 
the General Court, 1683, a member of the council, 1684-86. In Eng- 
land in 1688, he was of assistance to Increase Mather in the charter 
negotiations. A member of the council under the new charter, 1692 
to 1725;.he was a judge in the special court at Salem which tried and 
executed the supposed witches, and he was of so heroic a mold that 
five years later he could make public acknowledgment of his error. 
A justice of the superior court in 1692, he was promoted to judge of 
probate for Suffolk County, 1715, and from 1718 to 1728 was chief 
justice of the colony. Sewall’s literary fame rests upon his Diary, but 
in his lifetime he published several items. Meditating upon the evil 
of negro slavery, he wrote and published a small pamphlet, The Selling 
of Joseph, 1700, the first antislavery tract in America. His favorite 
_ study was that of Biblical prophecies and their fulfillments; this text 
is from one of his pamphlets on the meaning of the Book of Revela- 
tion, Phenomena quedam Apocalyptica ad Aspectum Novi Orbis configurata. 
Or, some few Lines towards a description of the New Heaven As It makes to 
those who stand upon the New Earth (Boston, 1697).] 


PHENOMENA 


APT. John Smith in his History published Anno 1624. 
¢ affirms that he found New-England well inhabited 
with a goodly, strong, and well proportioned People. 
And the Proverb is, Shew me the Man, and not the Meat. 
And if men can be contented with the Food and Rai- 
ment intended in 1 J2zm. 6. 8. they need not fear sub- 
sisting where Ash, Chesnut, Hazel, Oak & Walnut do 
naturally and plentifully grow. But for this, let Mr. Mor- 
den be consulted, to whom W. E is beholden for the fair 
Character given them in his Geographie. It is remark- 


This World and the Next 


able, that Mr. Parker, who was a successfull Schoolmaster 
at Newbury in Barkshire, in the happy days of Dr. Twisse; 
was much about this time preaching and Proving at 
Ipswich in Essex, That the Passengers came over upon 
good Grounds, and that Gop would multiply them as 
He did the Children of Jsrael. His ‘Text was Exod. 1. 7. 
As Mr. Nicolas Noyes, who was an Auditor, and is yet 
living, lately informed me. Mr. Parker was at this time; 
1634. principally concerned in beginning Newbury, where 
the Learned and Ingenious Mr. Benjamin Woodbridge, 
Dr. Twisse’s Successor, had part of his Education under 
his Unckle Parker. Mary Brown (now Godfry) the First- 
born of Newbury, is yet alive; and is become the Mother 
and Grandmother of many children. And so many have 


377 


Besides all that 


been born after her in the Town, that they make two. have issued out 


Assemblies, wherein Gop is solemnly worshipped every 
Sabbath Day. And 

As long as Plum Island shall faithfully keep the com- 
manded Post; Notwithstanding all the hectoring Words, 
and hard Blows of the proud and boisterous Ocean; 
As long as any Salmon, or Sturgeon shall swim in the 
streams of Merrimack; or any Perch, or Pickeril, in Crane- 
Pond; As long as the Sea-Fowl shall know the Time of 
their coming, and not neglect seasonably to visit the 
Places of their Acquaintance: As long as any Cattel 
shall be fed with the Grass growing in the Medows, 
which do humbly bow down themselves before Turkie- 
Mill; As long as any Sheep shall walk upon Old Town 
Hills, and shall from thence pleasantly look down upon 
the River Parker, and the fruitfull Marishes lying beneath; 
As long as any free and harmless Doves shall find a 
White Oak, or other Tree within the Township, to perch, 
or feed, or build a careless Nest upon; and shall volun- 
tarily present themselves to perform the office of Gleaners 
after Barley-Harvest; As long as Nature shall not grow 
Old and dote; but shall constantly remember to give 
the rows of Indian Corn their education, by Pairs: So 
long shall Christians be born there; and being first made 
meet, shall from thence be Translated, to be made 
partakers of the Inheritance of the Saints in Light. 


to begin other 
Plantations. 


378 The Puritans 


meds Areed wre! Ww eis aculd Cf sa Fe ie 
mr, 179.0, 


Wi theres § Aa Res Als ne ouk, pe San 
ee Magan Co 


ae me pare ts bea 
fy oe iy peat Se ay fF fae = 9 
Was eo, by DEAS. ergy Fig for bm 


pares QE need yo BOS 


nS, F. , 724 Lape 7 a, Te ard, 4 A 
Be gah be, Ie Fee oe es 
t vf IAG. Far Po! 7 

Lope «ng I fovmo Fo He aK PasToed Feet Fe 
Bh, & lon CECA CAS Gan 


eS ht S (an ~ Mov pei: Fr/dgy, Me 


We nh ba 2a, ac! uy ia) a CI, 
any AF coreens fake 1% corn fin 


Plantes? ([GiS op Bhags etek © gre diet Gr 


RRA © & pa WAS, Py, ai goes 
ES SGN DEON ree Pgh on 
TD ugr rer. WVesliny fa Oban BL ing fon ee. 
pre, eflrrnbh o- (ig veF* RAs 
Ira PD Ap Pees 
Sen orefenh hor Hk VEDI 
reso enn eriad. any fe 
Cae key what (Lt. sor Tighe sie 
feed we ‘pe nie ee ee Corbin 
bn fav for FOP yt Fega'ferteds a 
f oe Ligm bey ¢ PRE oe , be, Fe é "5 toieh nek 
1 eee MHpolple Pat ofttirrn Dye a 


in prasad y iG rz ete 
Rea fintfs im maa 2 aap ee halle fiare_ Zp 


Spar J Bowen Lang 1 Sans pene, 
teh e Ler Pe hs, wiih ae ts apn 9 PE Lee 


rele 


Page of Samuel Sewall’s Diary. (For text, see p. 526.) 


3/7, 


zany chlo L 3X 
ei Ae epee OD 


Dds: 


~e§ Chapter IV 


MANNERS, CUSTOMS, AND BEHAVIOR 


HEN John Josselyn, naturalist and traveler, returned to England 
W in 1671, he wrote of the civil and ecclesiastical “great masters”’ 
whom he met in the Bay Colony that some of them were “‘damnable 
rich.’ His objurgations went even farther: 


. . inexplicably covetous and proud, they receive your gifts but 
as an homage or tribute due to their transcendency, which is a fault 
their Clergie are also guilty of, whose living is upon the bounty of 
their hearers. ... The chiefest objects of discipline, Religion, and 
morality they want, some are of a Linsve-woolsie disposition, of sev- 
eral professions in Religion, all like Aethiopians white in the Teeth, only 
full of ludification and injurious dealing, ...and savagely factious 
amongst themselves... .! 


Some forty years had elapsed since Governor Winthrop led his earnest 
followers to New England, and doubtless times had changed. The 
authority of the earlier magistrates, most of whom by Josselyn’s time 
had been “‘laid asleep in their beds of rest till the day of doom,”’ 2 
was passing; even the clergy, alarmed at the defection from high serious- 
ness which they believed was spreading among the coming generation, 
had cautioned them “alwayes to remember, that Originally they are a 
Plantation Religious, not a plantation of Trade.” 3 But a clergyman’s 
privilege of straight speaking and a traveler’s presumption in criticizing 
are two different things. Perhaps Josselyn was right, even if his censure 
went unheeded, for though sketched in pique his outline does not seri- 
ously misrepresent the composite Yankee. 

Josselyn was one of the first among many observers of American man- 
ners who have found much to bewilder them and not a little to criticize. 
Colonizers as a rule do not combine high ideals with shrewd clear- 
sightedness, self-discipline with passion. If the leaders among the second 
generation of New Englanders accepted Josselyn’s gifts as homage, 
they were but receiving a tribute due the “Plantation Religious”; if they 
were proud, then Josselyn had misjudged them in expecting servility. 

Factiousness was indeed an infirmity to which early New Eng- 


1 An Account of Two Voyages to New-England (London, 1674), pp. 180, 181. Linsey- 
woolsey is a coarse fabric of linen and wool; by extension, a term of depreciation. 

2 Ibid., p. 183. 

3 John Norton, The Heart of N-England rent (1659), p. 58. The same phrase is re- 
peated in John Higginson’s Massachusetts Election Sermon for 1663, The Cause of 
God (Cambridge), p. 11. 


379 


380 The Puritans 


landers were peculiarly prone. The relative isolation of each village 
group compelled its members to associate in vexatious yet unavoidable 
propinquity. The era when “‘Good fences make good neighbors’”’ had 
not yet arrived, and the “‘commonage,”’ or unfenced village land, was 
shared. When horses and cattle strayed, as they might do with ex- 
asperating ease, tempers flared, and only the greatest self-control pre- 
vented bitter contention, as the diary of Joseph Green vividly testifies 
(see p. 448). The colonists did not welcome lawyers as a class—wisely 
perhaps, for the issues which made the townsmen so “‘savagely factious 
amongst themselves’? could be as equitably resolved by private agree- 
ment. Petty gossip and meanness, bickering and contentiousness were 
the “‘little foxes” all too often lurking in the Puritan vineyard. We 
encounter them in journals and diaries, and they were the texts for 
innumerable sermons and “‘lectures.’’ The godly were as much em- 
broiled as the unregenerate. John Pike, the minister at Dover, New 
Hampshire, was prevented by the town from collecting his salary in 
1702 because a large part of his congregation discovered they could get 
Quaker preachers ‘‘who should Preach to them freely without any Cost 
or Charge, not like their hireling Minister, who put them to great 
charge to maintain him.” ! We are glad to record, however, that the 
town finally came to its senses when the minister was about to depart, 
repudiated its heresies, and paid the arrears of Master Pike’s salary. 

Larger centers, such as Boston and Salem, provided a greater di- 
versity of interests; their ministers were often quicker to perceive the 
smoldering embers of disaffection, and wiser in blanketing them. It 
was the provincial town usually that let ‘“‘mighty contests rise from 
trivial things.’’ The “‘bad book” controversy in Northampton, as late 
as 1744, is a case in point; ? even more incomprehensibly serio-comic 
was the question of “‘dignifying the seats’ in Deerfield in 1701. Pews 
were allotted townspeople according to their rank. The third meeting- 
house in Deerfield was newly built, and the citizens, united though | 
they were against the very present danger of Indian attacks, split into 
two acrimonious parties in their views of social precedence regarding 
the dignity of the pews. The matter was settled only by recourse to 
statutory fiat: 


As to estimation of Seats y° Town agreed and voted y* y® fore seat 
in y® front Gallery shall be equall in dignity with y® 24 seat in y® 
Body of y® meeting house: 

1 Sibley, Biographical Sketches, 11, 451. 


2 See Thomas H. Johnson, ‘Jonathan Edwards and the ‘Young Folks’ Bible,’” 
New England Quarterly, V (1932), 37-54- 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 381 


That y° fore seats in y® side Gallerys shall be equall in dignity with 
y° 4th seats in y° Body of y* meeting house: + 


The town record continues to specify in detail the ranking of the 
seats, and implies the status of the families which could expect to 
occupy them! 

The characteristics observed by Josselyn were undoubtedly, for better 
or worse, a part of the Yankee make-up. They resulted from a way of 
life, and determined certain qualities of behavior peculiarly Puritan. 
Twentieth-century philosophy, based upon principles of toleration for 
religious, political, social differences; equality for all in the pursuit of 
happiness—often conceived as the equal ability of all to achieve “‘the 
more abundant life’’:—such a concept is immeasurably removed from 
that which obtained in the Puritan era. Clearly if Puritans believed 
that in the Bible lay all true and proper laws for governing human 
conduct, if they voluntarily relinquished to magistrates and ministers 
the power of interpreting the code, if they had not yet conceived the 
doctrine of laissez faire, then in questions of behavior the governors 
would tend to become “‘covetous and proud,” the governed gradually 
to develop “a Linsie-woolsie disposition,” and all men come to be their 
brother’s keeper. The germ of the failure of Puritanism lay concealed 
within its fruit. The ways of the Puritan are not our ways, and it is 
easy for us, removed in time and point of view, to see the failure. 
It were wiser for us, nevertheless, not to accept Josselyn’s verdict until 
we have observed one final aspect of the reaction of highly conceived 
ideals on human frailty. A glance, then, at their mode of life. 


Most of the families, especially those from among the twenty thou- 
sand emigrants who left England during the 1630’s, were recruited from 
the lesser gentry and yeoman stock, with a sprinkling of artisans and 
indentured servants. Frequently the servants were adventurers who de- 
parted England to escape imprisonment for debt by covenanting with 
another emigrant or the skipper of a sailing vessel for the amount of 
their passage. Their debt discharged, they could be admitted “inhab- 
itants,”’ and then, if they became church members, they could secure 
complete ‘“‘citizenship.”” The magistrates and ministers almost with- 
out exception were university trained gentlemen of good family. Though 
church membership was a necessary preliminary to the franchise, all 
men were recognized as equal before the law, all were freeholders, and 


1 Quoted from George Sheldon, A History of Deerfield, Massachusetts (Deerfield, 
1895-1896), I, 205. 


382 The Puritans 


all except the indentured servants owned their farms. Indeed, what- 
ever trade or calling a New England settler might follow, he was 
always of necessity a farmer. 

The severities of pioneer life, to which the rigors of a New England 
winter and the fear of Indian attacks were added, determined the mode 
of communal life. It was best that the village be closely knit, with no 
outlying farms. Except for a few settlements established up the Con- 
necticut River as far as Deerfield and Northfield, the population was 
spread along the seacoast, from which the forest stretched almost 
unbroken north to Canada and west to Albany. The General Court 
appropriated the arable land: the fresh and salt marshes, intervales, 
meadows, and Indian clearings, and granted it to communities—to 
“proprietors” who held the “‘ccommonage.” ' ‘The grantees were appor- 
tioned their holdings not on a basis of share and share alike, but upon 
principles less democratic perhaps, though equitable enough. The pro- 
prietors distributed the land according to the size of families, the 
number of their livestock, the wealth and position of the settler. None 
of the holdings was large, consequently no landed gentry established 
itself on great estates, as in New Netherlands or in the South. In a few 
instances, land was granted directly to individuals—to the ministers, 
for example, who received much larger apportionments, together with 
certain rights and privileges, in part payment as salary. 

Each farm, tilled by its owner, was self-sustaining. The land was 
planted to such staples as wheat, rye, and Indian corn; barley for beer, 
oats for stock; hemp and flax for clothing. In the garden plots the 
husbandman grew beans, white and green peas, hops, squash, “‘pum- 
pions,” “‘pasneps,’’ and “‘turneps.”’ Potatoes were not raised until the 
eighteenth century. Governor Bradford left the most comprehensive 
picture of the subsistence that New England furnished in the first 
decades of the settlements. Not only were there native herbs, fruits, 
and vegetables, but whatever was to be found in England, he says, 
had been brought to the colonies, where it thrived well: 


All sorts of grain which our own land doth yield, 
Was hither brought, and sown in every field: 

As wheat and rye, barley, oats, beans, and pease 
Here all thrive, and they profit from them raise, 
All sorts of roots and herbs in gardens grow, 
Parsnips, carrots, turnips, or what you'll sow, 
Onions, melons, cucumbers, radishes, 


1 For a brief account, see especially Robert R. Walcott, ‘“Husbandry in Colonial 
New England,” New England Quarterly, IX (1936), 218-252. 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 383 


Skirets,! beets, coleworts, and fair cabbages. 

Here grows fine flowers many, and ’mongst those, 
The fair white lily and sweet fragrant rose. 

Many good wholesome berries here you’ll find, 

Fit for man’s use, almost of every kind, 

Pears, apples, cherries, plumbs, quinces, and peach, 
Are now no dainties; you may have of each. 

Nuts and grapes of several sorts are here, 

If you will take the pains them to seek for.? 


After 1650, horses were bred in sufficient numbers for general use,— 
exported, in fact, to the West Indies, where they were used in the 
sugar industry,—and hay was therefore grown plentifully. As sum- 
mers must be devoted chiefly to raising crops, winters were free for 
tending the herd. Stock raising often supplied the principal income 
or credit with which the settler could trade. There were goats in 
abundance, cattle, horses, sheep, swine, poultry, and bees; hence 
the larder was amply stocked with native produce. In addition, a good 
supply of wild game depended only upon a practiced eye and a quick 
trigger, and such luxuries as maple sugar depended, after 1700, only 
upon the industry of each farmer (see p. 747). Fish were so common 
that along the coast, then as now, they provided fertilizer. Only spices 
and condiments, principally salt, sugar, and molasses, needed to be 
imported. Apples were abundant, and no cellar but contained enough 
cider—ten to forty barrels—to last out the season. Cider and beer 
were the universal drinks, served to all with every meal; while cider- 
brandy and rum, distilled at Boston and Newport, made headier 
beverages. 

The “‘selling points’? by which promoters for the New England Com- 
pany attracted settlers had not overstated the advantages. If their 
literature omitted any reference to the ravages and annoyances of 
hostile Indians, wolves, field mice, and sparrows, it assumed that they 
could soon be overcome by industry and the favor of God. The customer 
owned his home, he could raise a large family, and he had plenty to 
eat. On the whole he was satisfied. 


The New England emigrants brought comparatively few furnishings 
with them: ship space was dear, and in mid-seventeenth century pas- 


1 A skirret is a species of water-parsnip, long cultivated in Europe for its succulent 
root. Like the parsnip, which it resembles in flavor, it was boiled and served in butter, 
or half-boiled and fried. At present it is very little used. 

2 “A Descriptive and Historical Account of New England in verse,”’ Collections of 
the Massachusetts Historical Society, 111 (1794), 77-84; quoted from pp. 77, 78. Bradford 
died in 1657. 


384 The Puritans 


sage alone—and very crowded quarters at that—cost four or five 
pounds. Besides, why go to the expense of moving freight when all 
trades were represented among every shipload of passengers? Carvers 
and joiners, masons, coopers, and blacksmiths—all knew they would 
find plenty of native material on which to exercise their skill. Though 
some metal, bog iron particularly, was founded, wood, brick, or 
stone was chiefly used for building needs. The indentured servant 
labored as he could; and there were the négro slaves, sold directly 
by the ship’s captain at Boston or Newport, for those who could afford | 
them; but on the whole few servants found their way to any one house- 
hold. The skilled artisan, except in the smaller towns, was supremely 
important. Young men learned their business as apprentices; trades 
flourished, and some substantial incomes were acquired by owners of 
sawmills, breweries, and ships, by shipbuilders, and exporters of lum- 
ber, furs, and fish. The mint-master, John Hull of Boston, held the 
corner on silver; from 1652 until 1686 he minted the only native coin 
that the General Court allowed in the colonies—the famous ‘“‘Pine 
Tree Shilling’—on which his profit was considerable. Paper money 
was introduced only in 1690, in the same year that the name dollar 
(Ger. thaler) was given to the Spanish peso or “piece of eight.” 

As population increased, land values rose; a speculative fever that 
accompanied the subsequent prosperity forced men gradually to aban- 
don the use of ‘““commons”’ under a claim of ownership by proprietors. 
Thus in the early years of the eighteenth century a new town ceased to 
be a congregation formed about a new church; it was “‘a planting by 
land speculators of persons forced out from the old settlements by 
economic necessity.” 1 With expansion came a demand for “cheap 
money,” but Puritans of property and standing vehemently opposed 
any economic theory which argued that men were naturally equal or 
that a democratic government was the best. The brilliant arguments 
of ‘“‘the first great American democrat”? John Wise (see pp. 257-269) 
do not reflect the temper of orthodox Puritan economic theory, except 
in so far as he advocated the dignity of labor, the sanctity of property, 
and the virtue of saving.” 


1 James T. Adams, Revolutionary New England (Boston, 1927), p. 89. 

2 See for example, John Blackwell, A Discourse in Explanation of the Bank of Credit... 
to be Erected in Boston, Boston, 1687; idem, Some Additional Considerations Addressed unto 
the Worshipful Elisha Hutchinson, Boston, 1691; Cotton Mather, Some Considerations on 
the Bills of Credit now passing in New-England, Boston, 1691; idem, Fair Dealing between 
Debtor and Creditor, Boston, 1716. See further, Edgar A. J. Johnson, American Economic 
Thought in the Seventeenth Century, London, 1932. For the Puritan, private property was 
deemed necessary in a world of men actuated by self-love and incapable of achieving 
an ideal commonwealth. Only by labor was a decent state possible. Thus idleness was 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 385 


Trade with the West Indies, begun in the 1640's, was always brisk. | 
Lumber, horses, grain, meat, and tobacco were exchanged for wines, 
liquor, cheeses, sugar, tropical woods, slaves, and other merchandise 
not native to the colonies. From the West Indies silver coins had been » 
first introduced during the seventeenth century, though musket balls 
and wampum continued to have value in barter; wampum as well as 
farm produce was accepted in payment for college tuition. Though 
the Puritans were not originally a seafaring people, their new environ- 
ment gave opportunity for a development of trade that by the 1650’s 
made New England ships, commanded by the “‘Bible-quoting Yankee 
skipper,” a familiar sight in Atlantic and European waters; one which 
by 1676 had extended to the Levant and the Far East.1 Pay was good, 
and whether the enterprise involved legitimate commerce, smuggling, 
or privateering, owners found adventurous fellows who were glad to 
take up before the mast. But the “down-Easters’? who manned the 
vessels were not always young romantics; very often they were deserters, 
runaway servants, and “‘beach combers’: a sinewy, hard-working, 
_ heavy-drinking, picturesque crew that lent color to the thriving seaport 
towns of Marblehead, Salem, Boston, and Newport; and caused grave 
concern to the ministers. 

Few professions were represented in any one town. Lawyers were 
held in contempt,” and for the first ten years unrestricted judicial pow- 
ers were exercised by the Court of Assistants, that is, the magistrates— 
the Governor, Deputy-Governor, and twelve Assistants, annually 
elected by the freemen on the last Wednesday in Easter Term. Legal 
administration was brought more into line with English precedent in 
1641 by a codification of the “Body of Liberties,” or ‘Abstract of 
Laws,” mainly adopted from the legal books of the Old Testament. 
Thenceforth a codified fundamental law existed to which the magis- 


wrong both morally and socially, for it bred disrespect, fostered contention, and re- 
stricted production; the amassing of wealth was justified and desirable in that God 
could thereby be further glorified. (See Cotton Mather, Durable Riches (Boston, 1695), 
PP. 13, 14.) 

1 See especially John W. McElroy, ‘“‘Seafaring in Seventeenth-Century New Eng- 
land,” New England Quarterly, VIII (1935), 331-364. 

2 For a summary of the legal aspects of the Puritan colonies, see the introduction 
by Zechariah Chafee, Jr., to Records of the Suffolk County Court, 1671-1680, in Publica- 
tions of the Colonial Society of Massachusetts, Vols. XXIX, XXX (1933). The theory 
obtained that those who drew fees for representing their fellow men in court were usu- 
rers; but more fundamentally the objection to lawyers was simply that the colonists 
thought every man should be able to plead his own cause. The litigious character of 
the colonists, noted by travelers, was encouraged by magistrates and juries who dis- 
regarded legal precedent to the extent that lawsuits were sometimes protracted for 
two or three generations. 


386 The Puritans 


trates were bound, though as compared with the judicial procedure 
in English courts New England judges still exercised a wide discretion- 
ary power. Law and order were the rule, though punishments in the 
Puritan colonies were less severe than in England. Pirates and murder- 
ers were hanged at a public execution during which the prisoner was 
excoriated by the minister, his felonious life reviewed, and a plea for 
forgiveness entertained (see p. 413). Few survivals of medieval practices 
are known: two cases of burning at the stake for arson and poisoning; 
at least one “ordeal of touch” ! as a means of giving evidence. The | 
witchcraft delusion of 1692 (see pp. 758-762) was brief, very local, and 
is not now regarded as a phenomenon particularly Puritan. Lesser 
offences were punished by the customary English methods: stocking, 
whipping, branding, and cutting off ears. 

No settlement but had a well organized town government, together 
with its church presided over by a college-bred minister; the wealthier 
towns or churches often divided the ministerial function of pastor and 
teacher between two equally distinguished men: the “pastor”? was to 
concern himself with the administration of the society, and the 
“‘teacher’’ to devote himself primarily to expounding and maintaining 
the purity of doctrine. Increase Mather and his son Cotton, for ex- 
ample, served as pastor and teacher respectively of the Old North 
Church in Boston. 

Physicians were scarce in the colonies. It frequently fell to the lot 
of the minister, who might well be the only liberally educated resident, 
to practice medicine in what Cotton Mather described as ‘“‘Angelical 
Conjunction” * with his spiritual office. Michael Wigglesworth, in fact, 
was both the minister and the physician of Malden during his long 
occupation of the pulpit. On the whole, residents were far more de- 
pendent upon their own knowledge of herbs and simples than is com- 
monly imagined. Midwives attended the lying-in; a few herbals, based 
on the writings of Galen, circulated from hand to hand; some quacks, 
—‘‘chemists,”’ or followers of Paracelsus—compounded drugs; but in- 
fant mortality was high, childbirth fever claimed many young mothers, 
consumption took heavy toll among adolescents, the ravages of small- 
pox destroyed young and old indiscriminately, and now and then one 
encounters what appears to have been a fatal attack of appendicitis, 
recorded simply as “‘a prodigious belly-ache.”’ ‘Though several reputable 
physicians practiced in New England, the slow development of medi- 


99 


1 The superstition which required the person suspected of murder to touch the neck 
of the deceased with the index finger of the left hand; if blood appeared to flow from 
the corpse, the suspect was deemed guilty. 2 Magnalia, III, 26. 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 387 


cine itself was basically responsible for much ignorant procedure. Usu- 
ally doctors learned their profession as apprentices; it is significant that 
but one physician in the colonies in 1716, William Douglass of Boston, 
held the degree of Doctor of Medicine.+ 

Surprisingly little is known of the customs and practices in the or- 
dinary routine of Puritan life, for the journals and diaries, so numerous 
in the period, seldom or but incidentally record what to them were the 
commonplaces of existence.? Except in the very earliest years of the 
emigrations, it would appear that the colonists as a whole lived in a 
degree of luxury. The story of the hardships and lack of decencies 
among the Plymouth Pilgrims during the early years is too well known 
to need rehearsing; we are aware also that a few of the early settlers 
lived for a brief time in tents, huts, or dug-outs, heated by wooden 
chimneys, and lighted with oil-paper windows. But as soon as thrifty 
pioneers had won a foothold, aided by neighbors or servants they 
raised clapboarded frame houses, similar in architecture to those they 
knew in England. No log cabins ever were erected, though logs served 
for garrison houses as defense against Indian attacks. Many seven- 
teenth-century houses survive today in New England: usually two- 
storey frame dwellings built around an enormous brick chimney with 
openings for large fireplaces in several rooms. ‘The large kitchen, with 
its enormous fireplace, served often as dining room in winter, when a 
nor’easter penetrated through to the marrow, and thin clapboards 
could not repel the cold. In summer a back room or ‘‘summer kitchen’ 
could be opened up to accommodate a more expansive way of living. 
The “‘foreroom”’ or parlor, occasionally plastered with “‘painted paper,” 
was large and pleasant; it was probably not heated in winter except 
for occasional social gatherings or for funerals. In winter, especially 
in provincial New England, the foreroom was doubtless used for 
“bundling”’ or “tarrying’’—that curious custom wherein young men 
courted their girls in cold weather by lying with them upon bed or 
couch wrapped between heavy blankets sewed together on three sides 
and down through the middle. 

A brickworks was established at Salem in 1629, and now and then 
as the colonists prospered, well-to-do residents abandoned frame houses 
—so easily destroyed by fire—for more substantial brick edifices. A 
glance within the house indicates that forks were unknown to most and 


1 John Clark (1667-1728) of Boston, brother-in-law of Cotton Mather, was a 
talented physician. He was third in a direct line of seven generations of that name 
who practiced medicine in Massachusetts for over one hundred and fifty years. 

2 The best gleanings are to be found in George F. Dow, Every Day Life in the Mas- 
sachusetts Bay Colony (Boston, 1935). 


7 


388 The Puritans 


seldom used by any, though Winthrop brought one from England, 
perhaps as a curiosity. The food was plain: fresh meat in season, boiled 
or roasted, and salted at other times; corn meal, stews, and such vege- 
tables as were ripened or could be stored in winter. The diet perhaps 
lacked sufficient balance, for Josselyn noticed that “Men and Women 
keep their complexions, but lose their Teeth: the Women are pittifully 
Tooth-shaken; whether through the coldness of the climate, or by 
sweetmeats of which they have store, I am not able to affirm.” ! 
False teeth were not common, and the toothbrush was only introduced 
in 1718; but the salt and water solution used as a dentrifice was no 
doubt quite as adequate as any devised today. Bathing was a luxury,— 
at least, observers of colonial manners gave it scant notice. As for 
ventilation, quite possibly the bedrooms in winter received only such 
circulation of air as large fireplaces supply, since chilly air was thought 
to be poisonous. Indeed, the modern insistence upon wide-thrown win- 
dows on winter nights would have been incomprehensible to a Puritan. 
Only the wealthy could afford the imported craft or fabric of silver- 
smith, cabinetmaker, linen draper, or tailor; furniture was plain, dishes 
of wood or pewter, clothing homespun though plentiful. In dress 
decorum was preserved. Workmen wore leather; their betters, both 
men and women, indulged a taste for latest fashions both in clothes 
and in jewelry and trinkets; for, said Master Oakes, “‘one end of Ap- 
parel is to distinguish and put a difference between persons according 
to their Places and Conditions, .. . provided it carry nothing of Im- 
modesty in it, or Contrariety to the Rules of Moral Honesty. The 
civil Customs of the place where we live is that which must regulate 
in this case.” 3 In the light of Oakes’s sensible opinion we may better 
understand why the sumptuary laws to preserve a Puritan plainness 
were not enforced. Such advice would not support a view that Puritans 
of the upper classes lived drab and colorless lives. On the contrary, 
too many inventories bear witness to the presence of finery, and min- 
isters other than Oakes so often addressed congregations on the subject 
of dress, citing scripture and verse (see p. 454), that we know there 
must have been color aplenty. Ministers of the first generation thought 
long hair was unscriptural, and thus short hair became a party badge. 


1 Account of Two Voyages, p. 185. 

2 The American wing of the Metropolitan Museum of Art gives a most complete 
and accurate idea of colonial architecture, furniture, and decorations. One must 
keep in mind, nevertheless, that the art of the painter, carver, and silversmith belongs 
rather to the eighteenth century than to the seventeenth. The Puritan period in the 
colonies was substantially over by the end of Queen Anne’s reign. 

3 Urian Oakes, New-England Pleaded with (Cambridge, 1673), p. 34. 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 389 


By the end of the century, when the new fashion of periwigs came into 
style, the more conservative pillars of state and society transferred their 
animus to wigs. ‘“Mr Chievar died this last night...,’’ Judge Sewall 
entered briefly in his Diary for August 20, 1708; ‘““The Wellfare of the 
Province was much upon his Spirit. He abominated Perriwigs.” It is 
doubtful whether the naive non sequitur of Sewall’s views obtained very 
widely after 1710. Times were changing, the older views seemed stuffy, 
and such laws as had been enacted to preserve the decorum of an 
earlier day were forgotten. The first generations of Yankees, never 
‘timid souls,’ had been as independent in action and as restive under 
petty restraints as their descendants now seemed. By the close of the 
century the patriarchs that remained were merely exercising an old 
man’s prerogative of plain speaking. Laws that had been enacted were 
not always enforced. The Puritan was opinionated, and it is inevitable 
that he sometimes made himself ridiculous. 


Puritans were married young, though by no means so young as we 
often suppose. Revealing data on that matter can be gleaned from the 
vital records—lists of births, marriages, and deaths—relating to colo- 
nial towns. The average age for first marriages in early New England 
strikingly parallels that of today. Girls were almost never given in 
marriage under eighteen, and more often not until they had passed 
their twentieth or twenty-first birthday. Men were usually somewhat 
older. The average holds true for the colonies as a whole; certain 
classes, ministers’ children, for instance, or those whose education was 
longer pursued, sometimes were well along in their twenties before 
they assumed the responsibilities of matrimony. Isolation doubtless 
compelled delay: five of the six daughters of the Reverend Solomon 
Stoddard of Northampton were married rather late. Furthermore, prop- 
erly qualified suitors were not always at hand—the four daughters of 
Joseph Dudley were well into their twenties before they wed. Bachelors 
were uncommon, for the Biblical injunction to marry and increase was 
literally observed; food was ample, and there was work for all. Besides, 
the death rate was very high, so that oversupply of labor was no serious 
problem. Some have concluded that Puritan families were not very 
large, and it is true that no very great number reached maturity. The 
_ statement regarding Judge Sewall may fairly be considered representa- 
tive: “‘Sewall had issue by his first wife only. There were seven sons 
and seven daughters, of whom only six lived to maturity, and only 
three survived him.” 4 


1 Sibley, Biographical Sketches, 11, 359. 


390 The Puritans 


The marriage ceremony was simple and regarded as a civil, not a 
religious rite; banns were published and after a brief but appropriate 
interval the intending couple appeared before a magistrate. Elope- 
ments were uncommon, and divorces, though rare, were less so among 
Puritans than Anglicans, for the latter group flatly refused to sanction 
such a step.! Those who raise large families do not have time to humor 
their caprices; besides, man was the master and woman his helpmate; 
death so often separated partners that men and women often married 
twice, thrice, and sometimes even oftener. The choice of mate was by 
no means exclusively a parental matter. The florid love letter which | 
the Reverend Edward Taylor (see p. 650) addressed to the young lady 
of his choice in 1674, Elizabeth Fitch of Norwich, is still preserved: 2 


. Looke not (I entreate you) on it as one of Loves Hyperboles, 
if I borrow the Beams of some Sparkling Metaphors to illustrate my 
Respects vnto your selfe by. For you having made my breast the Cab- 
binet of your Affections (as I yours, mine) I know not how to vse a 
fitter Comparison to set out my Love by, than to Compare it vnto a 
Golden Ball of pure Fire rowling vp and down my Breast, from which 
there flies now, and then a Sparke like a Glorious Beam from the Body 
of the Flaming Sun... 


The ardent lover then goes on to prove syllogistically that ‘“Conjugall 
Love ought to exceed all other,’? with the conclusion that “it must 
be kept within bounds too. For it must be Subordinate to Gods 
Glory.” The conception was surely orthodox, and perhaps the expres- 
sion of it seemed a model proposal. At any rate, it is poles removed 
from the courtship of Mary Stoddard of Northampton by the young 
Wethersfield pastor, Stephen Mix. Tradition has it that Stephen first 
approached the daughter by way of the father. Stoddard’s consent 
obtained, the couple met and chatted, Mary asking simply for a brief 
time to consider the proposal. Her reply by letter shortly after reads 
as follows: 3 

Northampton, 1695 

Rev. Stephen Mix: 
Xs: 
Mary Stoddard. 


1 See Chilton L. Powell, ““Marriage in Early New England,” New England Quarterly,” 
I (1928), 323-334. 

2 In his MS ‘Poetical Works,” Yale University Library; printed in part in Frances 
M. Caulkins, History of Norwich, Connecticut (Hartford, 1866), p. 154. 

3 Charles Stoddard, Anthony Stoddard of Boston, Mass., Git His Descendants ey 
York, 1865), p. 4. 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 391 


Letters of the period exchanged between husband and wife, parents 
and children, or brothers and sisters, show a tender but not effusive 
regard: ““My dear Companion,” “Dear Spouse,” “My service to my 
sisters,” ‘“Your affectionate Friend and Father,” ““Your most tender and 
affectionate Father.’ For all that religion and the church played an 
important role in Puritan affairs, the home was the center of their 
lives, and for most, their love towards it must have been as deep as 
Anne Bradstreet’s, if less expressive. 

The attitude of the Puritans toward death and suffering is hardest 
to interpret in modern terms. Though not fatalists, they seem curiously 
insensitive to any great bereavement. It is not merely that they looked 
upon translation from the flesh to the spirit as a welcome change, 
though such an attitude was a principle in their ethics. It is rather the 
curiously immobile acceptance of a fait accompli. Sewall’s diary for 
May 26, 1720 points the case: ““About midnight my dear wife expired 
to our great astonishment, especially mine.” To be sure, death stalked 
too frequently among people of all ages to be an uncommon sight. For 
that reason perhaps, and because the rites were regarded in a secular 
light, funerals were seized upon as occasions for impressive assembly, 
extravagant display, and excessive drinking. The gloves, rings, and 
scarves provided in nearly every will for the bearers were likewise dis- 
tributed to the clergy, and the number they accumulated must have 
been reckoned in scores. So florid and diffuse was the stream of elegies 
and sermons that poured forth on such occasions that the Reverend 
James Fitch of Norwich wrote: ‘The Abusive, and justly to be Con- 
demned practice of too too many, who in Preaching Funeral Sermons, 
by mis-representing the Dead, have dangerously misled the living, and 
by flatteries corrupted many, hath occasioned not a few to question 
(if not conclude against) the lawfulness of Preaching at such sea- 
sons.... 4 Many of the old burying grounds are still to be seen, | 
with their simple freestone, syenite, or slate markers undisturbed. 
Flat marble slabs, imported from England, occasionally dot the 
quiet landscape, or low brick and marble tombs; vaults were a late 
innovation. 


Whoever wishes to learn about the sports and diversions of Puritan 
children should turn to Miss Earle’s delightful study.* Dolls and toys 
there were; as the child matured he participated in sports: football, 
ball and bat, stoolball, and cricket. We nowhere encounter any objec- 


1 Peace The End of the Perfect and Vpright (Cambridge, 1672), preface, sig. A 1. 
2 Alice M. Earle, Child Life in Colonial Days (2d ed., New York, 1927). 


392 The Puritans 


tion to pleasant, healthful divertisement, which indeed was encouraged. 
So too was a sense of humor. Colman said: 


A great deal of Pleasantry there is in the Town, and very graceful 
and charming it is so far as it is Innocent and Wise. Our Wit like 
our Azr is clear and Keen, and in very Many ’tis exalted by a Polite 
Education meeting with good WNatural Parts ...We daily need some 
respite & diversion, without which we dull our Powers; a little inter- 
mission sharpens ’em again. It spoils the Bow to keep it always bent, 
and the Viol if always strain’d up. Mirth is some loose or relaxation 
to the labouring Mind or Body, it lifts up the hands that hang down 
in weariness, and strengthens the feeble knees that cou’d stand no 
longer to work: it renews our strength, and we resume our labours 
again with vigour. *Tis design’d by nature to chear and revive us 
thro’ all the toils and troubles of life, and therefore equally a benefit 
with the other Rests which Nature has provided for the same end. ’Tis 
in our present Pilgrimage and Travel of Life refreshing as the Angels 
provision for Elijah in his sore travel. 


Doubtless the genial pastor knew men and times, and that wit 
whereof he spoke. In the next century the characteristics of ““Yankee 
humor”’ are seen more clearly, though even in the seventeenth century 
we perceive it occasionally. At its best it is seldom worldly, though it 
understood the way of the world; it was quiet usually and slow, some- 
times solemn and resigned, often sardonic; yet at its core never without 
warmth—the dry, crackling wit that mulls along, seldom breaking 
into flame.’ 

But all merriment was not innocent, and against such sports or games 
as fostered gambling, rows, immorality, drunkenness, or Sabbath- 
breaking strong voice was raised, and penalties enacted. Mixed dancing 
was condemned by some (see p. 411), as were card playing, shuffle- 


1 Benjamin Colman, The Government © Improvement of Mirth (Boston, 1707), pref- 
ace, and p. 29. Colman’s book indicates that the colonial ministers, by allying 
themselves with such reformers as Jeremy Collier, were establishing a respectable 
point of contact with England. At the same time they were keeping up with-an im- 
portant current of public opinion at home and demonstrating that they were not 
merely a provincial stock concerned with abstract theology. Cotton Mather’s Es- 
says to do Good was written for the same reason, and likewise shows the desire of New 
Englanders to co-operate with moral reforms. Colman’s conception of mirth and 
its government is that of traditional Puritanism, but the spirit informing it is of the 
eighteenth-century English nonconformist and Low-Church piety. 

2 See, for instance, the letter which Timothy Cutler wrote his classmate George 
Curwin in 1711, quoted in Sibley, Biographical Sketches, V, 46, 47. But for another in- 
terpretation of early ““Yankee humor’—one which gives in this writer’s opinion too 
much weight to its broad, farcical play—see George F. Horner, A History of American 
Humor to 1765 (Dissertation, University of North Carolina, 1936). 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 393 


board, billiards, and bowling. Yet many diversions, if moderately in- 
dulged, were willingly countenanced as long as they did not lead to 
“waste of time.’’ In the privacy of one’s own home much passed un- 
noticed—even dancing, card playing, and other such “‘frolicks.” A 
public bowling green was advertised at the present Bowdoin Square 
in Boston in 1700. All Yankees have had an eye for good horses, 
and horse racing, especially after 1715, was featured in many towns. 
There were pig-runs as well, and bearbaiting—sports which were never 
wholly approved even in England; but the tolerant colonial parson 
may sometimes have deemed it wise to drive with slackened rein. 

Holidays were times of hilarity: training-days for militia review, 
commencements—then as now,—and November Fifth or ‘“‘Pope’s 
Night,’’—three occasions especially licenced. But such times of public 
festivity by no means exhaust the tally. Puritans found excuse as well 
for private merrymaking in baptisms, weddings, funerals, barn-rais- 
ings, cornhuskings, quilting-parties, church-raisings, house-raisings, 
ship launchings, and, in truth, ministers’ ordinations. Thanksgiving was 
a peculiarly New England holiday, observed from the first with fitting 
solemnity. Christmas was associated in the Puritan mind with the 
“Lords of Misrule,”’ with riot and drunkenness. Though commemorated 
outside New England, and by the Anglicans in Boston as early as 
1686, it never came to be regarded generally as a day of joy and good 
will until the mid-nineteenth century. 

The Anglo-Saxon race has never been regarded an abstemious stock. 
“T will tell you,” Samuel Nowell remarked in the course of an Artillery 
Election address, 


I will tell you how we breed up Souldiers, both in old England and 
New, every Farmers Son, when he goes to the Market-Town, must 
have money in his purse; and when he meets with his Companions, 
they goe to the Tavern or Ale-house, and seldome away before Drunk, 
or well tipled. It is rare to find men that we can call Drunkards, but 
there are abundance of Tiplers in Wew-England. 1 


Colman spoke his mind even more eloquently: “But above all kinds 
of vain Mirth deliver me from the Drunken Club, who belch out noisy 
Ribaldry rank of the foul lees within.” * Taverns, though maintained 
for travelers, were too often the gathering places for idle drinkers. 
Unlike their English counterparts, they were not famous for their 
plenty and their genial comfort. No better account survives of the poor 


1 Abraham in Arms (Boston, 1678), p. 15. 
2 Government .. . of Mirth, p. 48. 


394 The Puritans 


appearance and slatternly service of early New England inns than 
Madam Knight’s Journal (see p. 425). It is easy to understand why 
travelers preferred to lodge with friends or acquaintances along the way 
when business compelled them to set out upon a journey. Those who 
could do so went by water; the rest stayed home. 


A final word on the attitude of the Puritans toward the arts. Drama 
they banned, because they evidently gave great weight to the injunc- 
tions urged against it by the primitive church, and also because they 
knew it in their day as an art supported by a court which they disap- © 
proved, and asa theater which, in the words of Chesterfield on decorum, 
combined the useful appearance of virtue with the solid satisfaction of 
vice. There was still bitter with them the caricatures of Puritans in Mal- 
volio and Zeal-of-the-Land Busy. The Restoration stage was scarcely 
one to attract God-centered men; but in the eighteenth century, with 
the return of sentimental drama, we find The New-England Weekly Fournal 
printing Lillo’s George Barnwell (1731) within a year of its appearance in 
London, defending the work on the grounds that it tended to promote 
virtue and piety.? 

Because Puritans held to the older tradition of a cappella singing in 
their churches, while Anglicans admitted instrumentalists, an idea has 
passed current that they were hostile to music. The truth is otherwise. 
Puritans produced the first Italian opera in England, Cromwell sup- 
ported an orchestra at court, and in this country music, both secular 
and sacred, was encouraged (see p. 451), as Sewall’s Diary often in- 
dicates.? 

Possession of fine architecture, tapestries, painting, and sculpture 
depends as much upon the wealth as the taste of the purchaser. As 
money increased, the arts followed. An inventory of Peter Sargent’s 
property in 1714 lists a tapestry. The great house of William Clark 
of Boston, with its fluted pilasters, is known to have contained at his 
death in 1715, oil paintings, a mosaic floor of wood, and painted ara- 
besques.* It may be that Puritan inventories list few works of art be- 
cause the fathers had seldom been men of property; besides, taste itself 
needs training. Yet we cannot be far wrong if we see the typical Puri- 

\ 1 It is well to note that even outside New England drama revived slowly. No 
Heel cual actors performed in any of the colonies until the eighteenth century, 
when a play was given in Charleston, South Carolina, in 1703. Professionals were 
not established in New York until 1732. 

2 See Percy A. Scholes, The Puritans and Music in England and New England (London, 
1934). The organ owned by Thomas Brattle, and willed by him in 1713 to the church 


which he founded, was rejected solely on grounds of polity. 
3 George F. Dow, Every Day Life, passim. 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 395 


tan as one dedicated to the glory of God, though living in this world; 
accepting its fashions as long as they did not run counter to God’s 
Word—and sometimes interpreting that Word to fit his own taste. 


JOHN SMITH, 1580-1631 


[No Puritan, John Smith was of that company of Elizabethan sea 
dogs, the story of whose lives, written both in word and deed, is 
treasured up in Hakluyt’s famous Voyages. Smith’s career is too well 
known to need rehearsing. The “sometimes Governour of Virginia, 
and Admirall of New-England”’ was a promoter whose conscious pur- 
pose was to enlarge the King’s dominions. He left several vivid and 
picturesque accounts of his travels. Advertisement For the unexperienced 
Planters of New-England, or anywhere. Or, The Path-way to experience to 
erect a Plantation (London, 1631) was his last work, dedicated to the 
archbishops of Canterbury.and York, and prefaced by the pathetic 
stanzas called ‘““The Sea Marke,”’ wherein the aging traveler pictures 
himself as a battered hulk and a warning to after-comers. 

Smith’s description of the founding of Massachusetts Bay is a mem- 
orable account and deserves to be better known. The author tells his 
story with dramatic force, in crisp and racy diction, pausing in the 
onward rush only to limn the portrait of some founder or to exclaim 
over the natural beauties of the newly discovered wilderness. | 

The text is from a copy of the original edition in the New York Public 
Library (pp. 18-29, with omissions indicated). See Tyler, A History 
of American Literature, 1, 18-38; Dictionary of American Biography; and 
especially Samuel E. Morison, Buzlders of the Bay Colony, chap. I.] 


LHE. SEA MAREE. 


LOOFE, aloofe, and come no neare,! 
A the dangers doe appeare; 
Which if my ruine had not beene 

you had not seene: 
I onely lie upon this shelfe 
to be a marke to all 
which on the same might fall, 
That none may perish but my selfe. 


If in or outward you be bound, 
doe not forget to sound; 

Neglect of that was cause of this 
to steare amisse. 


396 


1623. 


Five and forty 
saile to fish. 


1624. 


The Puritans 


The Seas were calme, the wind was faire, 
that made me so secure,? 
that now I must indure 

All weathers be they foule or faire. 


The Winters cold, the Summers heat, 
alternatively beat 
Upon my bruised sides, that rue 
because too true 
That no releefe can ever come. 
But why should I despaire 
being promised so faire 


That there shall be a day of Dome. 


ADVERTISEMENT FOR THE UNEXPERIENCED 
PLANTERS 


Cuap. 8. 


EXTREMITY NEXT DESPAIRE, GODS GREAT MERCY, 
THEIR ESTATE, THEY MAKE GOOD SALT, 
AN UNKNOWNE RICH MYNE. 


T New-Plimoth, having planted there Fields and 
A Gardens, such an extraordinary drought insued, 
all things withered, that they expected no harvest; and 
having long expected a supply, they heard no newes, 
but a wracke split upon their Coast, they supposed their 
Ship: thus in the very labyrinth of despaire, they sol- 
emnly assembled themselves together nine houres .in 
prayer. At their departure, the parching faire skies all 
overcast with blacke clouds, and the next morning, such 
a pleasant moderate raine continued fourteene daies, 
that it was hard to say, whether their withered fruits 
or drooping affections were most revived; not long after 
came two Ships to supply them, with all their Passengers 
well, except one, and he presently recovered; for them- 
selves, for all their wants, there was not one sicke person 
amongst them: the greater Ship they returned fraught 
with commodities. This yeare went from England, onely 
to fish, five and forty saile, and have all made a better 
voyage than ever. 

In this Plantation there is about an hundred and 
fourescore persons, some Cattell, but many Swine and 
Poultry: their Towne containes two and thirty houses, 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 


whereof seven were burnt, with the value of five or six 
hundred pounds in other goods, impailed about halfe 
a mile, within which within a high Mount, a Fort, with 
a Watch-tower, well built of stone, lome, and wood, 
their Ordnance well mounted, and so healthfull, that 
of the first Planters not one hath died this three yeares: 
yet at the first landing at Cape Cod, being an hundred 
passengers, besides twenty they had left behind at Pli- 
moth for want of good take heed, thinking to finde all 
things better than I advised them, spent six or seven 
weekes in wandring up and downe in frost and snow, 
wind and raine, among the woods, cricks, and swamps, 
forty of them died, and threescore were left in most 
miserable estate at New-Plimoth, where their Ship left 
them, and but nine leagues by Sea from where they 
landed, whose misery and variable opinions, for want 
of experience, occasioned much faction, till necessity 
agreed them. These disasters, losses, and uncertainties, 
made such disagreement among the Adventurers in Eng- 
land, who beganne to repent, and rather lose all, than 
longer continue the charge, being out of purse six or 
seven thousand pounds, accounting my bookes and their 
relations as old Almanacks. But the Planters, rather than 
leave the Country, concluded absolutely to supply them- 
selves, and to all their adventurers pay them for nine 
yeares two hundred pounds yearely without any other 
account; where more than six hundred Adventurers for 
Virginia, for more than two hundred thousand pounds, 
had not six pence. Since they have made a salt worke, 
wherewith they preserve all the fish they take, and have 
fraughted this yeare a ship of an hundred and foure- 
score tun, living so well they desire nothing but more 
company, and what ever they take, returne commodities 
to the value. 

This you may plainly see, although many envying I 
should bring so much from thence, where many others 
had beene, and some the same yeare returned with 
nothing, reported the Fish and Bevers I brought home, 
I had taken from the French men of Canada, to dis- 
courage any from beleeving me, and excuse their owne 
misprisions, some onely to have concealed this good 
Country (as is said) to their private use; others taxed 
me as much of indiscretion, to make my discoveries and 
designes so publike for nothing, which might have beene 
so well managed by some concealers, to have beene all 


397 


They make 
store of good 
salt. 


398 


An incredible 


rich mine. 


1629. 
The Planting 
Salem. 


Their pro- 
visions for 
Salem. 


The planting 
Salem and 


Charlton. 


The Puritans 


rich ere any had knowne of it. Those, and many such 
like wise rewards, have beene my recompences, for 
which I am contented, so the Country prosper, and 
Gods name bee there praised by my Country-men, I 
have my desire; and the benefit of this salt and fish, for 
breeding Mariners and building ships, will make so many 
fit men to raise a Common-wealth, if but managed, as 
my generall history will shew you; it might well by this 
have beene as profitable as the best Mine the King of 
Spaine hath in his West Indies... . 


CHAP. Il. 


THE PLANTING BASTABLE OR SALEM AND CHARLTON, 
A DESCRIPTION OF THE MAssACHUSETS. 


In all those plantations, yea, of those that have done 
least, yet the most will say, we were the first; and so 
every next supply, still the next beginner: But seeing 
history is the memory of time, the life of the dead, and 
the happinesse of the living; because I have more plainly 
discovered, and described, and discoursed of those Coun- 
tries than any as yet I know, I am the bolder to continue 
the story, and doe all men right so neere as I can in 
those new beginnings, which hereafter perhaps may bee 
in better request than a forest of nine dayes pamphlets. 

In the yeare 1629. about March, six good ships are 
gone with 350. men, women, and children, people pro- 
fessing themselves of good ranke, zeale, meanes and 
quality: also 150. head of cattell, as horse, mares, and 
neat beasts; 41. goats, some conies, with all provision 
for houshold and apparell; six peeces of great Ordnance 
for a Fort, with Muskets, Pikes, Corslets, Drums and 
Colours, with all provisions necessary for the good of 
man. They are seated about 42. degrees and 38. minutes, 
at a place called by the natives Naemkecke, by our Royall 
King Charles, Bastable; but now by the planters, Salem; 
where they arrived for most part exceeding well, their 
cattell and all things else oe vie exceedingly, farre 
beyond their expectation. 

At this place they found some reasonable good pro- 
vision and houses built by some few of Dorchester, with 
whom they are joyned in society with two hundred men, 
an hundred and fifty more they have sent to the Massa- 
chusets, which they call Charlton, or Charles ‘Towne: I 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 


tooke the fairest reach in this Bay for a river, whereupon 
I called it Charles river, after the name of our Royall 
King Charles; but they find that faire Channell to divide 
it selfe into so many faire branches as make forty or 
fifty pleasant Ilands within that excellent Bay, where 
the land is of divers and sundry sorts, in some places 
very blacke and fat, in others good clay, sand and gravell, 
the superficies neither too flat in plaines, nor too high 
in hils. In the Iles you may keepe your hogs, horse, 
cattell, conies or poultry, and secure for little or nothing, 
and to command when you list, onely having a care 
of provision for some extraordinary cold winter. In those 
Iles, as in the maine, you may make your nurseries for 
fruits and plants where you put no cattell; in the maine 
you may shape your Orchards, Vineyards, Pastures, 
Gardens, Walkes, Parkes, and Corne fields out of the 
whole peece as you please into such plots, one adjoyning 
to another, leaving every of them invironed with two, 
three, foure, or six, or so many rowes of well growne 
trees as you will, ready growne to your hands, to defend 
them from ill weather, which in a champion you could 
not in many ages; and this at first you may doe with 
as much facility, as carelessly or ignorantly cut downe 
all before you, and then after better consideration make 
ditches, pales, plant young trees with an excessive charge 
and labour, seeing you may have so many great and 
small growing trees for your maine posts, to fix hedges, 
palisados, houses, rales, or what you will; which order 
in Virginia hath not beene so well observed as it might: 
where all the woods for many an hundred mile for the 
most part grow streight, like unto the high grove or 
tuft of trees, upon the high hill by the house of that 
worthy Knight Sir Humphrey Mildmay,3 so remarkable in 
Essex in the Parish of Danbery, where I writ this discourse, 
but much taller and greater, neither grow they so thicke 
together by the halfe, and much good ground betweene 
them without shrubs, and the best is ever knowne by the 
ereatnesse of the trees and the vesture it beareth. Now 
in New-England the trees are commonly lower, but much 
thicker and firmer wood, and more proper for shipping, 
of which I will speake a little, being the chiefe engine 
wee are to use in this worke, and the rather for that 
within a square of twenty leagues, you may have all, 
or most of the chiefe materials belonging to them, were 
they wrought to their perfection as in other places.... 


fo 


A description of 
the Massachu- 
sets Bay. 


400 


1630. 
Their present 
estate. 


The fruits of 
counterfeits. 


The Puritans 


CHAP. 13. 


THEIR GREAT SUPPLIES, PRESENT ESTATE 
AND ACCIDENTS, ADVANTAGE. 


Who would not thinke but that all those trials had 
beene sufficient to lay a foundation for a plantation, but 
we see Many men many mindes, and still new Lords, 
new lawes: for those 350. men with alJl their cattell that 
so well arived and promised so much, not being of one 
body, but severall mens servants, few could command 
and fewer obey, lived merrily of that they had, neither 
planting or building any thing to any purpose, but one 
faire house for the Governour, till all was spent and the 
winter approached; then they grew into many diseases, 
and as many inconveniences, depending only of a supply 
from England, which expected Houses, Gardens, and 
Corne fields ready planted by them for their entertain- 
ment. 

It is true, that Master John Wynthrop,* their now Gover- 
nour, a worthy Gentleman both in estate and esteeme, 
went so well provided (for six or seven hundred people 
went with him) as could be devised, but at Sea, such 
an extraordinarie storme encountred his Fleet, continu- 
ing ten daies, that of two hundred Cattell which were 
so tossed and brused, threescore and ten died, many of 
their people fell sicke, and in this perplexed estate, after 
ten weekes, they arrived in New-England at severall times, 
where they found threescore of their people dead, the 
rest sicke, nothing done, but all complaining, and all 
things so contrary to their expectation, that now every 
monstrous humor began to shew it selfe. And to second 
this, neare as many more came after them, but so ill 
provided, with such multitudes of women and children, 
as redoubled their necessities. 

This small triall of their patience, caused among them 
no small confusion, and put the Governour and his 
Councell to their utmost wits; some could not endure 
the name of a Bishop, others not the sight of a Crosse 
nor Surplesse, others by no meanes the booke of common 
Prayer. This absolute crue, only of the Elect, holding 
all (but such as themselves) reprobates and cast-awaies, 
now make more haste to returne to Babel, as they tearmed 
England, than stay to enjoy the land they called Canaan; 
somewhat they must say to excuse themselves... . 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 401 


THOMAS LECHFORD, fl. 1629-1642 


[Thomas Lechford was the first professional lawyer in Massachusetts 
Bay. Refusing preferment abroad, he emigrated to New England in 
1638, but he was not in sympathy with affairs, and, never becoming a 
church member, could not vote or hold public office. Debarred from 
practice in 1641 for trying to influence a jury, he returned to England 
in disgust, leaving his wife and household goods behind. 

Lechford’s pique found expression in a volume published in London 
after his return: Plain Dealing: or, Newes from New-England (1642). 
It is salutary, perhaps, to see the Bay Colony through the eyes of one 
whose opinions were not colored by close attachments. 

Plain Dealing was shortly reissued with a new title and was reprinted 
twice in the nineteenth century. A “Notebook”? which he kept from 
1638 to 1641 is also available. See Dictionary of American Biography.| 


PLAIN DEALING 


FoR THE STATE OF THE COUNTRY IN THE BAY 
AND THEREABOUTS. 


HE LAND is reasonable fruitfull, as I think; they State of the 
have cattle, and goats, and swine good store, and Countrey of 
some horses, store of fish and fowle, venison, and * corne, Se ae 
, ; oper eat and 
both English and Indian. They are indifferently well able partey are 
to subsist for victuall. They are setting on the manu- thought not to 
facture of linnen and cotton cloath, and the fishing trade, be so good as 
and they are building of ships, and have good store of those grains in 
barks, catches, lighters, shallops, and other vessels. ‘They oe pa 
have builded and planted to admiration for the time. pease are as 
There are good masts and timber for shipping, planks, good as the 
and boards, clap-board, pipe-staves, bever, and furres, English: the 
and hope of some mines. There are Beares, Wolves, and Pease have no 
; wormes at all. 
Foxes, and many other wilde beasts, as the Moose, a poaines also 
kind of Deere, as big as some Oxen, and Lyons, as I there are very 
have heard. The Wolves and Foxes are a great annoy- good. 
ance. There are Rattlesnakes, which sometimes doe some 
harme, not much; He that is stung with any of them, 
or bitten, he turnes of the colour of the Snake, all over 
his body, blew, white, and greene spotted; and swelling, 
dyes, unlesse he timely get some Snake-weed;! which if 
he eate, and rub on the wound, he may haply recover, 
but feele it a long while in his bones and body. Money 
is wanting, by reason of the failing of passengers these 
two last yeares, in a manner. They want help to goe 


402 


The Puritans 


forward, for their subsistance in regard of cloathing: 
And great pity it would be, but men of estates should 
help them forward. It may bee, I hope, a charitable 
worke. The price of their cattell, and other things being 
fallen, they are not at present able to make such returns 
to England, as were to be wished for them: God above 
direct and provide for them. There are multitudes of 
godly men among them, and many poore ignorant soules. 
Of late some thirty persons went in two small Barks for 
the Lords Isle of Providence,? and for the Maine thereabout, 
which is held to be a beter countrey and climate by 
some: For this being in about 46. degrees of northerne 
latitude, yet is very cold in winter, so that some are 
frozen to death, or lose their fingers or toes every yeere, 
sometimes by carlesnes, sometimes by accidents, and are 
lost in snowes, which there are very deepe sometimes, 
and lye long: Winter begins in October, and lasts till 
Aprill. Sixty leagues Northerly it is held not habitable, 
yet again in Summer it is exceeding hot. If shipping 
for conveyance were sent thither, they might spare divers 
hundreds of men for any good design. The jurisdiction 
of the Bay Patent reacheth from Pascattaqua Patent 
Northeast to Plymouth Patent Southward. And in my 
travailes there, I have seene the towns of Newberry, Ips- 
wich, Salem, Lynne, Boston, Charlestowne, Cambridge, Water- 
towne, Concord, Roxbury, Dorchester, and Braintree in the 
Bay Patent, New Taunton in Plymouth Patent, the Island 
Aquedney, and the two townes therein, Newport and Porits- 
mouth, and New Providence within the Bay of Narhiggansets. 
This for the satisfaction of some that have reported I 
was no Travailer in New-England. ... 


WHEN I was TO COME AWAY, ONE OF THE CHIEFEST 
IN THE COUNTRY WISHED ME TO DELIVER HIM 
A NOTE OF WHAT THINGS I MISLIKED IN 
THE COUNTRY, WHICH I DID, THUS: 


I doubt, 

1. Whether so much time should be spent in the 
publique Ordinances, on the Sabbath day, because that 
thereby some necessary duties of the Sabbath must needs 
be hindred, as visitation of the sick, and poore, and 
family. 

2. Whether matters of offence should be publiquely 
handled, either before the whole Church, or strangers. 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 403 


3. Whether so much time should be spent in particu- 
lar catechizing those that are admitted to the com- 
munion of the Church, either men or women; or that 
they should make long speeches; or when they come 
publiquely to be admitted, any should speak contra- 
dictorily, or in recommendation of any, unlesse before 
the Elders, upon just occasion. 

4. Whether the censures of the Church should be 
ordered, in publique, before all the Church, or strangers, 
other then the denunciation of the censures, and pro- 
nunciation of the solutions. 

5. ‘Whether any of our Nation that is not extremely 
ignorant or scandalous, should bee kept from the Com- 
munion, or his children from Baptisme. 

6. That many thousands in this Countrey have for- 
gotten the very principles of Religion, which they were 
daily taught in England, by set forms and Scriptures 
read, as the Psalmes, first and second Lesson, the ten 
Commandments, the Creeds, and publique catechizings. 
And although conceived Prayer be good and holy, and 
so publike explications and applications of the Word, 
and also necessary both in and out of season: yet for 
the most part it may be feared they dull, amaze, con- 
found, discourage the weake and ignorant, (which are 
the most of men) when they are in ordinary performed 
too tediously, or with the neglect of the Word read, 
and other premeditated formes inculcated, and may 
tend to more ignorance and inconvenience, then many 
good men are aware of. 

7. I doubt there hath been, and is much neglect of 
endeavours, to teach, civilize, and convert the Indian 
Nation, that are about the Plantations. 

8. Whether by the received principles, it bee possible 
to teach, civilize, or, convert them, or when they are 
converted, to maintain Gods worship among them. 

g. That electorie courses will not long be safe here, 
either in Church or Common-wealth. 


JASPER DANCKAERTS, 1639-ca. 1703 


[During the last quarter of the seventeenth century a sect of the 
Dutch Reformed Church called Labadists settled in Maryland and 
Delaware. With evangelical earnestness the small group, which ceased 
to exist by 1727, lived a communal existence, sustained principally 


404 | The Puritans 


by agriculture. In 1679 two representatives from the central church 
in Friesland, Jasper Danckaerts and Peter Sluyter (1645-1722), crossed 
the ocean to transact business with the provincial associates. Their 
mission accomplished, the two men traveled north through New York 
to Boston before returning to Holland. They remained in Boston 
from June 19 to July 23, 1680, and the Journal of their voyage, espe- 
cially of their sojourn in Cambridge and vicinity, makes delightful 
reading. 

The manuscript in Danckaerts’s handwriting is in the possession of 
the Long Island Historical Society. It was first printed by the Society 
in 1867, soon after its discovery. The text, together with the notes, is 
from the Journal of Jasper Danckaerts, 1679-1680, ed. by B. B. James 
and J. F. Jameson (New York, 1913), pp. 254, 255, 258-269, 272-275. | 


JOURNAL OF JASPER DANCKAERTS 


UNE, 1680] About three o’clock we caught sight of the main land 
J of Cape Cod, to which we sailed northerly. We arrived inside the 
cape about six o’clock, with a tolerable breeze from the west, and at 
the same time saw vessels to the leeward of us which had an east wind, 
from which circumstance we supposed we were in a whirlwind. These 
two contrary winds striking against each other, the sky became dark, 
and they whirled by each other, sometimes the one, and sometimes the 
other being strongest, compelling us to lower the sails several times. 
I have never seen such a twisting and turning round in the air as at 
this time, the clouds being driven against each other, and close to the 
earth. At last it became calm and began to rain very hard, and to 
thunder and lighten heavily. We drifted along the whole night in a 
calm, advancing only twelve or sixteen miles. 

23d, Sunday. A breeze blew up from the northeast. It was fortunate 
for us that we arrived inside of Cape Cod yesterday evening, before 
this unfavorable weather, as we should otherwise have been compelled 
to put back to Rhode Island. We could now still proceed; and we laid 
our course northwest to Boston. We arrived at the entrance of the 
harbor at noon, where we found a considerable rolling sea caused by 
the ebb tide and wind being against each other. There are about 
thirty islands here, not large ones, through which we sailed, and 
reached Boston at four o’clock in the afternoon, our captain running 
with his yacht quite up to his house in the Milk-ditch.* 

The Lord be praised, who has continued in such a fatherly manner 
to conduct us, and given us so many proofs of His care over us; words 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 405 


are wanting to express ourselves properly, more than occasions for 
them, which we have had abundantly. 

We permitted those most in haste to go ashore before us, and then 
went ourselves. The skipper received us politely at his house, and so 
did his wife; but as it was Sunday, which it seems is somewhat strictly 
observed by these people, there was not much for us to do today. 
Our captain, however, took us to his sister’s where we were welcome, 
and from there to his father’s, an old corpulent man, where there was 
a repetition of the worship, which took place in the kitchen while 
they were turning the spit, and busy preparing a good supper. We 
arrived while they were engaged in the service, but he did not once 
look up. When he had finished, they turned round their backs, and 
kneeled on chairs or benches. The prayer was said loud enough to be 
heard three houses off, and also long enough, if that made it good. 
This done, he wished us and his son welcome, and insisted on our 
supping with him, which we did.... 

24th, Monday. We walked with our captain into the town, for his 
house stood a little one side of it, and the first house he took us to was 
a tavern. From there, he conducted us to the governor, who dwelt 
in only a common house, and that not the most costly. He is an old 
man, quiet and grave. He was dressed in black silk, but not sumptu- 
ously. Paddechal explained the reasons of our visit. The governor 
inquired who we were, and where from, and where we were going. 
Paddechal told him we were Hollanders, and had come on with him 
from New York, in order to depart from here for England. He asked 
further our names, which we wrote down for him. He then presented 
us a small cup of wine, and with that we finished. We went then to 
the house of one John Tayller, or merchant tailor,? to whom William 
van Cleyf had recommended us; but we did not find him. We wanted 
to obtain a place where we could be at home, and especially to ascertain 
if there were any Dutchmen. They told us of a silversmith who was a 
Dutchman, and at whose house the Dutch usually went to lodge. We 
went in search of him, but he was not at home. At noon we found this 
merchant tailor, who appeared to be a good sort of a person. He spoke 
tolerably good French, and informed us there was a ship up for Eng- 
land immediately, and another in about three weeks. The first was 
too soon for us, and we therefore thought it best to wait for the other. 
We also found the silversmith, who bade us welcome. His name was 
Willem Ros, from Wesel. He had married an Englishwoman, and 
carried on his business here. He told us we might come and lodge with 
him, if we wished, which we determined to do; for to lie again in our 


406 The Puritans 


last night’s nest was not agreeable to us. We exchanged some of our 
money, and obtained six shillings and six-pence each for our ducatoons, 
and ten shillings each for the ducats. We went accordingly to lodge 
at the goldsmith’s, whom my comrade knew well, though he did not 
recollect my comrade.* We were better off at his house, for although 
his wife was an Englishwoman, she was quite a good housekeeper. 
25th, Tuesday. We went in search of Mr. Paddechal this morning and 
paid him for our passage here, twenty shillings New England currency, 
for each of us. We wanted to obtain our goods, but they were all too 
busy then, and promised they would send them to us in the city the 
next day. We inquired after Mr. John Pigon, to whom Mr. Robert 
Sanders, of Albany, promised to send Wouter the Indian, with a letter, 
but he had received neither the letter nor the Indian; so that we must 
offer up our poor Indian to the pleasure of the Lord. We also went to 
look after the ship, in which we were going to leave for London. 
We understood the name of the captain was Jan Foy. The ship was 
called the Dolphin, and mounted sixteen guns.° Several passengers were 
engaged. There was a surgeon in the service of the ship from Rotterdam, 
named Johan Owins, who had been to Surinam ° and afterwards to the 
island of Fayal,’ from whence he had come here, and now wished to go 
home. There was also a sailor on board the ship who spoke Dutch, or was 
a Dutchman. The carpenter was a Norwegian who lived at Flushing. 
26th, Wednesday. We strove hard to get our goods home, for we were 
fearful, inasmuch as our trunk was on deck, and it had rained, and a 
sea now and then had washed over it, that it might be wet and ruined; 
but we did not succeed, and Paddechal in this exhibited again his 
inconsiderateness, and little regard for his promise. We resolved to 
take it out the next day, go as it would. 
27th, Thursday. We went to the Exchange in order to find the mer- 
chant tailor, and also the skipper, which we did. We agreed for our 
passage at the usual price of six pounds sterling for each person, with 
the choice of paying here or in England; but as we would have less 
loss on our money here, we determined to pay here. After ’change was — 
over there was preaching,® to which we had intended to go; but as we 
had got our goods home, after much trouble, and found several articles 
wet and liable to be spoiled, we had to stay and dry them. 
28th, Friday. One of the best ministers in the place being very sick, 
a day of fasting and prayer was observed in a church near by our house. 
We went into the church, where, in the first place, a minister made a 
prayer in the pulpit, of full two hours in length; after which an old 
minister delivered a sermon an hour long, and after that a prayer was 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 407 


made, and some verses sung out of the Psalms. In the afternoon, three 
or four hours were consumed with nothing except prayers, three min- 
isters relieving each other alternately; when one was tired, another 
went up into the pulpit.° There was no more devotion than in other 
churches, and even less than at New York; no respect, no reverence; 
in a word, nothing but the name of Independents; and that was all. . . . 

7th, Sunday. We heard preaching in three churches, by persons who 
seemed to possess zeal, but no just knowledge of Christianity. The 
auditors were very worldly and inattentive. The best of the ministers 
whom we have yet heard is a very old man, named Mr. John Eliot,'° 
who has charge of the instruction of the Indians in the Christian re- 
ligion. He has translated the Bible into their language. After we had 
already made inquiries of the booksellers for this Bible, and there was 
none to be obtained in Boston, and they told us if one was to be had, 
it-would be from Mr. Eliot, we determined to go on Monday to the 
village where he resided, and was the minister, called Rocsberry 
[Roxbury]. Our landlord had promised to take us, but was not able 
to do so, in consequence of his having too much business. We therefore 
thought we would go alone and do what we wanted. 

Jury 8th, Monday. We went accordingly, about six o’clock in the 
morning, to Rocxberry, which is three-quarters of an hour from the 
city, in order that we might get home early, inasmuch as our captain 
had informed us, he would come in the afternoon for our money, and 
in order that Mr. Eliot might not be gone from home. On arriving at 
his house, he was not there, and we therefore went to look around the 
village and the vicinity. We found it justly called Rocxberry, for it 
was very rocky, and had hills entirely of rocks. Returning to his house 
we spoke to him, and he received us politely. As he could speak neither 
Dutch nor French, and we spoke but little English, we were unable to 
converse very well; however, partly in Latin, partly in English, we 
managed to understand each other. He was seventy-seven years old,!! 
and had been forty-eight years.in these parts. He had learned very 
well the language of the Indians, who lived about there. We asked 
him for an Indian Bible. He said in the late Indian war, all the Bibles 
and Testaments were carried away, and burnt or destroyed, so that 
he had not been able to save any for himself; but a new edition was in 
press, which he hoped would be much better than the first one, though 
that was not to be despised. We inquired whether any part of the old 
and new edition could be obtained by purchase, and whether there 
was any grammar of their language in English. Thereupon he went 
and brought us one of the Old Testaments in the Indian language, 


408 The Puritans 


and also almost the whole of the New Testament, made up with some 
sheets of the new edition of the New Testament, so that we had the 
Old and New Testaments complete. .. .¥4 

He deplored the decline of the church in New England, and es- 
pecially in Boston, so that he did not know what would be the final 
result. We inquired how it stood with the Indians, and whether any 
good fruit had followed his work. Yes, much, he said, if we meant true 
conversion of the heart; for they had in various countries, instances 
of conversion, as they called it, and had seen it amounted to nothing 
at all; that they must not endeavor, like scribes and Pharisees, to make 
Jewish proselytes, but true Christians. He could thank God, he con- 
tinued, and God be praised for it, there were Indians whom he knew, 
who were truly converted of heart to God, and whose profession, he 
believed, was sincere. It seemed as if he were disposed to know us 
further, and we therefore said to him, if he had any desire to write to 
our sort of people, he could use the names which stood on the title- 
page of the Declaration, and that we hoped to come and converse with 
him again. He accompanied us as far as the jurisdiction of Roxbury 
extended, where we parted from him. 

gth, Tuesday. We started out to go to Cambridge, lying to the north- 
east of Boston, in order to see their college and printing office. We left 
about six o’clock in the morning, and were set across the river at 
Charlestown. We followed a road which we supposed was the right 
one, but went full half an hour out of the way, and would have gone 
still further, had not a negro who met us, and of whom we inquired, 
disabused us of our mistake. We went back to the right road, which 
is a very pleasant one. We reached Cambridge about eight o’clock. 
It is not a large village, and the houses stand very much apart. The 
college building is the most conspicuous among them. We went to it, 
expecting to see something unusual, as it is the only college, or would-be 
academy of the Protestants in all America, but we found ourselves 
mistaken. In approaching the house we neither heard nor saw anything 
mentionable; but, going to the other side of the building, we heard 
noise enough in an upper room to lead my comrade to say, “I believe 
they are-engaged in disputation.” We entered and went up stairs, 
when a person met us, and requested us to walk in, which we did. We 
found there eight or ten young fellows, sitting around, smoking to- 
bacco, with the smoke of which the room was so full, that you could 
hardly see; and the whole house smelt so strong of it that when I was 
going up stairs I said, “It certainly must be also a tavern.” ‘> We 
excused ourselves, that we could speak English only a little, but under- 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 409 


stood Dutch or French well, which they did not. However, we spoke 
as well as we could. We inquired how many professors there were, 
and they replied not one, that there was not enough money to support 
one. We asked how many students there were. They said at first, thirty, 
and then came down to twenty; I afterwards understood there are 
probably not ten. They knew hardly a word of Latin, not one of them, 
so that my comrade could not converse with them. They took us to 
the library where there was nothing particular. We looked over it a 
little. They presented us with a glass of wine. This is all we ascertained 
there. The minister of the place goes there morning and evening to 
make prayer, and has charge over them; besides him, the students 
are under tutors or masters.!* Our visit was soon over, and we left them 
to go and look at the land about there. We found the place beautifully 
situated on a large plain, more than eight miles square, with a fine 
stream in the middle of it, capable of bearing heavily laden vessels. 
As regards the fertility of the soil, we consider the poorest in New York 
superior to the best here. As we were tired, we took a mouthful to eat, 
and left. We passed by the printing office, but there was nobody in it; 
the paper sash however being broken, we looked in, and saw two presses 
with six or eight cases of type. There is not much work done there. 
Our printing office is well worth two of it,.and even more.4> We went 
back to Charlestown, where, after Pann gi a little, we crossed over 
about three o’clock. . 

But before going aaeiee to sea we must give a brief description of 
New England, and the city of Boston in particular. 

When New Netherland was first discovered by the Hollanders, the 
evidence is that New England was not known; because the Dutch East 
India Company then sought a passage by the west, through which to 
sail to Japan and China; and if New England had been then discovered, 
they would not have sought a passage there, knowing it to be the main 
land; just as when New Netherland and New England did become 
known, such a passage was sought no longer through them, but farther 
to the north through Davis and Hudson straits. The Hollanders, when 
they discovered New Netherland, embraced under that name and title 
all the coast from Virginia or Cape Hinloopen eastwardly to Cape 
Cod, as it was then and there discovered by them and designated by 
Dutch names, as sufficiently appears by the charts. The English after- 
wards discovered New England and settled there.!° They increased so 
in consequence of the great liberties and favorable privileges which 
the king granted to the Independents, that they went to live not only 
west of Cape Cod and Rhode Island, but also on Long Island and other 


410 The Puritans 


places, and even took possession of the whole of the Fresh River,!7 
which the Hollanders there were not able to prevent, in consequence 
of their small force in New Netherland, and the scanty population. 
The English went more readily to the west, because the land was 
much better there, and more accessible to vessels, and the climate was 
milder; and also because they could trade more conveniently with the 
Hollanders, and be supplied by them with provisions. New England 
is now described as extending from the Fresh River to Cape Cod and 
thence to Kennebec, comprising three provinces or colonies: Fresh 
River or-Connecticut, Rhode Island and the other islands to Cape 
Cod, and Boston, which stretches from thence north. They are subject 
to no one, but acknowledge the king of England for their lord,!® and 
therefore no ships enter unless they have English passports or commis- 
sions. They have free trade with all countries; but the return cargoes 
from there to Europe go to England, except those which go secretly 
to Holland. There is no toll or duty paid upon merchandise exported 
or imported, nor is there any impost or tax paid upon land. Each 
province chooses its own governor from the magistracy, and the magis- 
trates are chosen from the principal inhabitants, merchants or planters. 
They are all Independents in matters of religion, if it can be called 
religion; many of them perhaps more for the purposes of enjoying the 
benefit of its privileges than for any regard to truth and godliness. I 
observed that while the English flag or color has a red ground with a 
small white field in the uppermost corner, where there is a red cross, 
they have here dispensed with this cross in their colors, and preserved 
the rest.19 They baptize no children except those of the members of 
the congregation. All their religion consists in observing Sunday, by 
not working or going into the taverns on that day; but the houses are 
worse than the taverns. No stranger or traveller can therefore be enter- 
tained on a Sunday, which begins at sunset on Saturday, and continues 
until the same time on Sunday. At these two hours you see all their 
countenances change. Saturday evening the constable goes round into 
all the taverns of the city for the purpose of stopping all noise and de- 
bauchery, which frequently causes him to stop his search, before his 
search causes the debauchery to stop. There is a penalty for cursing 
and swearing, such as they please to impose, the witnesses thereof be- 
ing at liberty to insist upon it. Nevertheless you discover little differ- 
ence between this and other places. Drinking and fighting occur there 
not less than elsewhere; and as to truth and true godliness, you must 

not expect more of them than of others. When we were there, four 
ministers’ sons were learning the silversmith’s trade. 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 411 


The soil is not as fertile as in the west. Many persons leave there to 
go to the Delaware and New Jersey. They manure their lands with 
heads of fish. They gain their living mostly or very much by fish, which 
they salt and dry for selling; and by raising horses, oxen, and cows, 
as well as hogs and sheep, which they sell alive, or slaughtered and 
salted, in the Caribbean Islands and other places. They are not as good 
farmers as the Hollanders about New York. 


INCREASE MATHER 


[‘“‘Seasonable merriment” was a phrase the Puritans often used ap- 
provingly, but they interpreted it after their own fashion. “Dancing 
(yea though mixt) I would not simply condemn.” John Cotton had 
written a friend in 1625, justifying it from the Old Testament: ‘‘Only 
lascivious dancing to wanton ditties’? (Collections of the Massachusetts 
Historical Society, second series, X (1823), 183). The thirty-page essay 
which Increase Mather published in Boston in 1684: An Arrow against 
Profane and Promiscuous Dancing. Drawn out of a Quiver of the Scriptures, 
resulted from a ministers’ discussion. It is stricter in tone than Cotton’s 
letter, and in the eyes of twentieth-century readers seems to lay a dis- 
proportionate stress on moral inessentials. By 1716, at least, dancing 
was taught in Boston by Edward Euston, the organist of the Episcopal 
King’s Chapel, who thus augmented his salary, and he met with no 
interference. See Diary of Samuel Sewall, III, 111 note. 

For Mather, see p. 334. The text is from pp. 1-3, 27-30, with omis- 
sions indicated. | 


AN ARROW AGAINST PROFANE AND PROMISCUOUS 
DANCING 


ONCERNING the Controversy about Dancing, the Question is not, 
whether all Dancing be in it self sinful. It is granted, that Pyrrhi- 
cal or Polemical Saltation: i.e. when men vault in their Armour, to 
shew their strength and activity, may be of use. Nor is the question, 
whether a sober and graye Dancing of Men with Men, or of Women 
with Women, be not allowable; we make no doubt of that, where it 
may be done without offence, in due season, and with moderation. 
The Prince of Philosophers has observed truly, that Dancing or Leap- 
ing, 18 a natural expression of joy: So that there is no more Sin in it, 
than in laughter, or any outward expression of inward Rejoycing. 
But our question is concerning Gynecandrical Dancing, or that which is | 


412 The Puritans 


commonly called Mixt or Promiscuous Dancing, viz. of Men and Women 
(be they elder or younger persons) together: Now this we affirm to 
be utterly unlawful, and that it cannot be tollerated in such a place as 
New-England, without great Sin. And that it may appear, that we are 
not transported by Affection without Judgment, let the following Argu- 
ments be weighed in the Ballance of the Sanctuary. 

Arg. 1. That which the Scripture condemns is sinful. None but Atheists 
will deny this Proposition: But the Scripture condemns Promiscuous Danc- 
ing. This Assumption is proved, 1. From the Seventh Commandment. It is an 
Eternal Truth to be observed in expounding the Commandments, that 
whenever any sin is forbidden, not only the highest acts of that sin, 
but all degrees thereof, and all occasions leading thereto are prohibited. 
Now we cannot find one Orthodox and Judicious Divine, that writeth 
on the Commandments, but mentions Promiscuous Dancing, as a breach 
of the seventh Commandment, as being an occasion, and an incentive 
to that which is evil in the sight of God. Yea, this is so manifest as that 
the Assembly in the larger Catechism, do expresly take notice of Dancings, 
as a violation of the Commandments. It is sad, that when in times of 
Reformation, Children have been taught in their C[a]techism, that such 
Dancing is against the Commandment of God, that now in New-England 
they should practically be learned the contrary. ‘The unchast Touches 
and Gesticulations used by Dancers, have a palpable tendency to that 
which is evil. Whereas some object, that they are not sensible of any 
ill motions occasioned in them, by being Spectators or Actors in such 
Saltations; we are not bound to believe all which some pretend con- 
cerning their own Mortification. . 

Now they that frequent Promiscuous Dancings, or that send their 
Children thereunto, walk disorderly, and contrary to the Apostles 
Doctrine. It has been proved that such a practice is a Scandalous Im- 
morality, and therefore to be removed out of Churches by Discipline, 
which is the Broom of Christ, whereby he keeps his Churches clean. . . . 

And shall Churches in N[ew] E[ngland] who have had a Name to be 
stricter and purer than other Churches, suffer such a scandalous evil 
amongst them? if all that are under Discipline be made sensible of 
this matter, we shall not be much or long infested with a Choreutical 
Demon... . 

The Catechism which Wicked men teach their Children is to Dance 
and to Sing. Not that Dancing, or Musick, or Singing are in themselves 
sinful: but if the Dancing Master be wicked they are commonly abused 
to lasciviousness, and that makes them to become abominable. But 
will you that are Professors of Religion have your Children to be thus 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior | 413 


taught? the Lord expects that you should give the Children who are 
Baptized into his Name another kind of Education, that you should 
bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord: And do 
you not hear the Lord Expostulating the case with you, and saying, 
you have taken my Children, the Children that were given unto me; 
the Children that were solemnly engaged to renounce the Pomps of 
Satan; but is this a light matter that you have taken these my Children, 
and initiated them in the Pomps and Vanities of the Wicked one, 
contrary to your Covenant? What will you say in the day of the Lords 
pleading with you? we have that charity for you as to believe that you 
have erred through Ignorance, and not wickedly: and we have there- 
fore accounted it our Duty to inform you in the Truth. If you resolve 
not on Reformation, you will be left inexcusable. However it shall be, 
we have now given our Testimony and delivered our own Souls. Con- 
sider what we say, and the Lord give you understanding in all things. 


JOHN DUNTON, 1659-1733 


[John Dunton was an eccentric bookseller of London who came to 
Boston in 1686 to collect bad debts, dispose of excess stock, and perhaps 
to escape the dangers of the Monmouth rising. He remained in New 
England but eight months, during which time he wrote a series of 
entertaining but unreliable letters, published by the Prince Society 
of Boston in 1867 in two volumes: John Dunton’s Letters from New- 
England. 

The selections chosen for the text deal in part with sermons delivered 
by Cotton Mather, Joshua Moody, and Increase Mather in the 
presence of the condemned murderer James Morgan. Dunton’s version 
of the sermons is quite accurate, in some portions verbatim. Of the 
prisoner little is known save that he lived in Boston. All three sermons, 
each of which required at least an hour to expound, were published 
within a year of their delivery, and represent a class of literature which 
publishers willingly undertook in anticipation of profitable sales. Such 
accounts supplied the public with what we might call the murder novels 
of their day. They presented the horrors of sin with enough lurid 
detail to arouse interest, and concluded with edifying advice. The 
custom of publicly addressing the condemned man in the presence of the 
gallows was brought from England; the twentieth-century mind revolts 
from the barbaric practice, yet the rite was universal in English-speaking 
communities till well into the eighteenth century. 

For accounts of Moody and the Mathers, see pp. 162, 334, and 367. 


414 The Puritans 


Dunton’s “Ramble” from Charlestown through Medford and Cam- 
bridge, and his chat with the college librarian, John Cotton, about 
books, offer a pleasanter side of people and customs. 

The text of the Letters is from I, 118-137; II, 154-163, with omissions 
indicated. The selections are chosen from the more reliable passages. 
For a discussion of the general untrustworthiness of the Letters, see 
Chester N. Greenough, ‘John Dunton’s Letters from New England,” 
Publications of the Colonial Society of Massachusetts, XIV (1913), 212-257; 
_ idem, “John Dunton Again,” zbid., X XI (1920), 232-251. 


LETTERS 


To Mr. Grorce LARKIN, PRINTER, AT THE Two Swans, 
WITHOUT BISHOPSGATE, LONDON. 


Boston, in New-England, March 25, 1686. 


NOTHER Occurrence that happened, whilst I was here, was the 
Execution of Morgan, which I may send you as a Piece of News, 
for there has not (it seems) been seen an Execution here this seven 
years. So that some have come 50 miles to see it: And I do confess, 
Considering what serious care the two Mathers and Mr. Moody took 
to prepare the Dying Criminal for Death, the Relation may be worth 
relateing in my Summer Rambles; and in this Occurrence, I shall relate 
nothing but what I saw my self. 
_ And first, I went to view the Prison, in Prison-Lane;! and here I 
think it will not be amiss, if I first give you the Character of a Prison: 
A Prison is the Grave of the Living, where they are shut up from the 
World and their Friends, and the Worms that gnaw upon them are 
their own Thoughts and the Jayler. "Tis a House of meagre Looks, 
and ill smells: for Lice, Drink, and Tobacco, are the Compound: Or, 
if you will, ’tis the Subburbs of Hell; and the Persons much the same 
as there: You may ask, as Manippas in Lucian, which is Nevius, which 
Thirsites; which the Beggar, and which the Knight: for they are all 
suited in the same kind of nasty Poverty. The only fashion here, is to 
be out at the Elbows; and not to be thread-bare, is a great Indecorum. 
Every Man shews here like so many Wrecks upon the Sea: here the 
Ribs of a thousand Pound; and there, the Relicks of so many Manners 
is only a Doublet without Buttons; and ’tis a Spectacle of more Pity 
than Executions are. Men huddle up their Lives here, as a thing of no 
use, and wear it out like an old suit, the faster the better; and he that 
deceives the time best, best spends it, Men see here much sin, and 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior A15 


much calamity; and where the last does not mortifie, the other hardens: 
And those that are worse here, are desperately worse, as those from 
whom the Horror of sin is taken off, and the Punishment familiar. ‘This 
is a School, in which much Wisdom is learnt, but it is generally too 
late, and with danger; and it is better to be a fool, than come here to 
learn it. 

Here it was that I saw poor Morgan; who seem’d to be very sorrowful 
and penitent, and confessed that he had in his rage murdered the Man 
whose Death and Blood has been laid to his Charge: He told me that 
the other gave him some ill Language whereby he was provoked, and 
that he said to him, If he came within the door, he wou’d run the spit 
into his Bowels, and he was as wicked as his Word; and so confessed 
himself guilty of Murder... . 

But to return to Morgan, whose Execution being appointed on the 
11th of March, there was that Care taken for his Soul that three Excel- 
lent Sermons? were preached before him, before his Execution; ‘Two 
on the Lord’s Day, and one just before his Execution. The first was 
preached by Mr. Cotton Mather, who preached upon that Text in Jsa. 
45: 22, Look unto Me and be ye saved, all the Ends of the Earth. He declar’d 
that when the no less unexpected than undeniable Request of a Dying 
Man, who (says he) now stands in this Assembly, that he wou’d allow 
him this morning, a Discourse proper to his Uncomfortable Circum- 
stances, was brought to him, he cou’d not think of a more proper Text; 
Telling the poor Wretch, That he was now listening to one of the three 
last Sermons that ever he was like to sit under before his incounter 
with the King of Terrors. And then said, ‘‘Poor Man! Do you hearken 
diligently, and I’ll study to make this whole hour very particularly 
suitable and serviceable to you; and methinks a Man that knows him- 
self about to take an Eternal Farewel of all Sermons, shou’d Endeavour 
to hear with most Earnest heed. And a little after, ‘“The Faithful and 
True Witness saith unto us, J will give you rest; O let the poor fetter’d 
Prisoner recollect himself! James!- Thy Name is not excepted in these 
Invitations.” 

“T am glad for the seemingly penitent Confession of your monstrous 
Miscarriages, which yesterday I obtain’d in writing from you, and 
which indeed was no more than there was need of: But it remains 
yet, that you give your Dying Looks to the Lord Jesus Christ; for Salva- 
tion from all your Guilt, and from all the Plagues in the flying Roll.” 
And a little after, “My request unto you is, That you wou’d at this 
hour think of an Interest in Christ.—Surely when the Executioner is 
laying the Cold Cloth of Death over your Eyes, the Look, with the 


416 The Puritans 


Shriek of your Soul, will then say, ““O now a Thousand Worlds for an 
Interest in Jesus Christ!” Surely a few minutes after that, when your 
naked Soul shall appear before the Judgment-Seat of the Most High, 
you will again say, an Interest in Jesus Christ, is worth whole Moun- 
tains of Massive Gold! 

You have murder’d the Body and {no thanks to you, if not) the Soul 
of your Neighbour too: And O that the Rock in your Bosom might 
flow with Tears at such a thought! If the Court shou’d say unto you, 
Beg hard, and you shall live; O, how affectionate wou’d you be! Poor | 
dying man, The Lord Jesus Christ saith the same thing to you, If thou 
canst heartily look and beg, thou shalt not be hang’d up among the 
Monuments of my Vengeance, in Chains for Evermore. 

“The sharp Ax of Civil Justice will speedily cut you down; O for a 
little good Fruit before the Blow! Manifest your penitence for your 
Iniquities by a due care to excel in Tempers quite contrary to those ill 
habits and Customs whereby you have heretofore blasphemed the 
Worthy Name of Christ and Christianity: Especially employ the last 
minutes of your Life, in giving a Zealous Warning unto others, to take 
heed of those things which have been destructive unto you. Tell them 
what wild Gourds of Death they are, by which you have got your 
Bane; point out before them those Paths of the Destroyer which have 
led you down So near unto the Congregation of the Dead. 

“‘When the numerous Crowd of Spectators are, three or four days 
hence, throng’d about the Place where you shall then breathe your last 
before them all, then do you with the heart-piercing-groans of a 
deadly wounded Man, beseech of your Fellow-sinners, That they 
wou’d turn now every one from the Evil of his way. Beseech them to 
keep clear of ill haunts and ill houses, with as much dread of them, as 
they cou’d have of lying down in a Nest of poysonous Snakes: Beseech 
them to abhor all Uncleanness, as they wou’d the Deep Ditch which 
the abhorred of the Lord do fall into. Beseech of them to avoid all 
Excess in Drinking, as they wou’d not rot themselves with more bitter 
Liquors than the Waters of Jealousie. Beseech them to mortifie and 
moderate all inordinate Passions, as they wou’d not surrender them- 
selves into the hands of Devils, that will hurry them down into deeper 
Deeps than they are aware of. Beseech them to shun Idle Swearing, 
as a Prophanity that the God to whom vengeance belongeth will 
not permit to go unpunished. Beseech them to avoid Curses on them- 
selves or others, least whilst they like Madmen so throw about Fire- 
brands, Arrows, and Death, they bring upon their own heads, as you 
have done, the things which they are apt to be wishing. Beseech them 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior ALT 


to beware of Lying, as they wou’d not be put to need, and Crave, 
and be deny’d, a drop of Water, to cool their Tongues in the place of 
Torment. Beseech of them to be as averse to all stealing, as they wou’d 
be to carry coals of Fire into those Nests that they so feather by their 
dishonesty. Beseech of them to prize the means of Grace; to sleep at, 
or keep from sermons no more: To love the Habitation of Gop’s 
House, and the place where his Honour dwells; lest Gop soon send their 
barren, froward souls to dwell in silence, where there shall never be a 
Gospel-Sermon heard; Never, Never, as long as the Almighty sits upon 
his Christal Throne. 

‘“‘And when you have given these Warnings, upon the Ladder from 
whence you shall not come off without taking an Irrecoverable step 
into Eternity; O remember still, you give unto Jesus Christ the Honour 
of Looking to him for his salvation. Remember, that if you wou’d do 
a work highly for the Honour of Him, this is The Work of Gop, that 
you believe on Him. Even after your Eyes are so covered, as to take 
their leave of all sights below, still continue Looking unto Him whom 
you have heard saying, Look unto me. And now let the Everlasting 
Saviour look down in much mercy upon you: O that he wou’d give 
this Murderer and Extraordinary Sinner, a place among the Wonders 
of Free Grace! O that this Wretched Man might be made meet for 
the Inheritance among the Saints in Light; being kept from an un- 
repenting and deluded Heart as unquenchable Fire will find fewel in.” 

This was the Substance of what Mr. Cotton Mather address’d to 
the Prisoner, in his Sermon in the Morning... . 

In the Evening of the same Lord’s Day, Mr. Joshua Moodey preach’d 
before him; his Text was Jsa. 12: 1.—Tho’ thou wast angry with me, thine 
anger is turned away.—He told the Poor condemned Prisoner, That 
what he had to say to him, shou’d be under these two Heads, 1. By 
way of Conviction and awakening: 2. By way of Encouragement and 
Counsel. He told him also, That he shou’d use all Plainness and Free- 
dom, taking it for Granted that Dying Men are past all Expectation 
of Flatteries or Complements; and that plain Dealing, which will do 
the most Good, will find the best Acceptance. ... 

“You seem to bewail your Sin of Sabbath-breaking: Well, know’ 
that you shall never have another Sabbath to break.—The Lord help 
you to keep this as you ought.—It is a very awful thing to us to look 
on you, a Person in your Youth, Health, and Strength, Brests full of 
Milk, and Bones moistened with Marrow, and then to think that 
within so many Days, this Man, tho’ in his full strength, must Dye: 
And methinks it shou’d be much more awful to you.—Consider, You 


418 The Puritans 


have no time to get Sin pardoned, and Wrath turn’d away, (if it be 
not done already) but between this and Death, into the very Borders, 
and under the Sentence of which, you now are. In the Grave there is 
no Repentance, no Remission, Eccles. 9: 10. Before four Days more 
pass over your head, (and O how swiftly do they fly away!) you will 
be entered into an Eternal and Unchangeable state, of Weal or Wo; 
and of wo it will be, if speedy, thorough Repentance prevent it not. 

“But yet know, That notwithstanding all that has been spoken, 
there is yet hope in Israel concerning this thing. There is a way found © 
out, and revealed by Gop for the Turning of his Anger even from such 
Sinners. Paul was a Murderer, and yet Pardon’d; Manasseh made the 
streets of Jerusalem to swim with Innocent Blood, and yet was for- 
Piven: |. js, ; 

Then addressing himself to the Congregation, he said: ‘““You may 
not expect to have any come from the Dead to warn you, but here is 
one that is just going to the Dead, who bequeaths you this Warning, 
lest you also be in like manner hung up as Monuments of Gop’s Wrath. 
I lived near twenty years in this Countrey, before I heard an Oath 
or a Curse: But now as you pass along the Streets, you may hear Chil- 
dren curse and swear, and take the great and dreadful name of Gop 
in vain. This they have learnt from Elder Persons, but wo to them that 
taught them, if they repent not.—I remember what Pious Herbert saith, 
in his Advice to young Men, That the Swearer has neither any fair pre- 
tence for doing it, nor Excuse when done, either from Pleasure or Profit, 
&c., and says, That if he were an Epicure, he cou’d forbear Swearing. 

“And O you Drunkards, Let trembling take hold of you, Especially 
you Drunkards of Ephraim, Jsa. 28: 1. I mean Church-Member Drunk- 
ards. I wish there were none such, that hear me this Day, who neither 
are Church-Members now, nor were, till Dismembred for that Sin... . 

He then said, “I shall conclude, in a few words more to this Dying 
Bloody Sinner’’:—And then addressing himself to the Prisoner, he said, 
—‘‘Poor Man! Consider, That all who live under the Gospel, are 
brought to Jesus, the Mediator of the New Covenant; to the Blood of Sprin- 
Kling, that speaketh better things than that of Abel.—Heb. 12: 24. And there- 
upon it is presently added, vers. 25, See that ye refuse not him that speaks 
from Heaven. Abel’s Blood cried for Vengeance upon the Murderer, 
but Christ’s Blood cries for Pardon, and Christ himself calls on thee, 
to receive, and not refuse him; unto which Call, if thou yield the 
obedience of Faith, his Blood will speak on thy Behalf. Thy sins speak 
bitter things, old sins, sins of youth, a Course of Sin; and this bloody 
Sin cries aloud, and speaks most bitterly; but that blood of Christ can 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 419 


out-speak, out-cry all these. It was from hence, that David, when 
under the Anguish of Soul, for his Blood-guiltiness, expected Pardon, 
and had it, and so mayst thou. Psal. 51... .” 

This was the substance of Mr. Moody’s Address to the Prisoner; 
who was remanded to Prison, where he continued till Thursday Morn- 
ing, (the Day of his Execution) and then another Sermon (the last he 
ever heard) was preached before him by the Reverend Mr. Increase 
Mather, just before his going to Execution. ... 

“T have spoken so often to you in private, since your being appre- 
hended, that I shall not need to say much now: Only a few Words:— 

“‘t. Consider what a Sinner you have been; The Sin which you 
are to dye for, is as red as Scarlet; and many other Sins has your wicked 
Life been filled with. You have been a stranger to me; I never saw you; 
I never heard of you, until you had committed the Murder, for which 
you must dye this Day; but I hear by others that have known you, 
how wicked you have been; and you have your self confessed to the 
World, That you have been guilty of Drunkenness, guilty of Cursing 
and Swearing, guilty of Sabbath-breaking, guilty of Lying, guilty of 
Secret Uncleanness; as Solomon said to Shimei, Thou knowest the Wick- 
edness which thine own heart is privy to; so I say to you: and that which 
ageravates your guiltiness not a little, is, That since you have been in 
Prison you have done Wickedly: You have made your self drunk 
several Times since your Imprisonment; yea, and you have been guilty 
of Lying since your Condemnation. 

‘9. Consider what misery you have brought upon your self: on 
your Body, that must dye an accursed Death; you must hang between 
Heaven and Earth, as it were forsaking of both, and unworthy to be 
in either. And what misery have you brought upon your poor Children? 
You have brought an Everlasting Reproach upon them. How great 
will their shame be, when it shall be said to them that their Father 
was hang’d? Not for his Goodness, as many in the World have been; 
but for his Wickedness: Not as a Martyr, but as a Malefactor: But that 
which is Ten thousand thousand times worse than all this, is, That 
you have (without Repentance,) brought undoing Misery upon your 
poor, yet precious Soul: Not only Death on your Body, but a second 
Death on your never-dying Soul: O tremble at that! ...” 

This, Mr. Larkin, is a part of what I heard preached at Mr. Willard’s 
Meeting in an Auditory of near 5000 People; they went first to the 
New Church, but the Gallery crack’d, and so they were forced to 
remove to Mr. Willard’s.? They were all preach’d with so much Awful- 
ness, and so pathetically apply’d to the Poor Condemned Man, that 


420 The Puritans 


all the Auditory (as well as my self) were very much affected thereat: 
And tho’ I have been pretty long in the Rehearsal, yet you being an 
old Dissenter, I did not think the Reading of them wou’d be unac- 
ceptable to you. And remember this, I am rambling still, tho’ it be 
from one subject to another.—But before I leave off this subject, I must 
bring Morgan to his Execution, whither I rid with Mr. Cotton Mather, 
after the Sermon was ended. Some thousands of the People following 
to see the Execution. As I rid along I had several glimpses of poor 
Morgan, as he went. . 

He seem’d penitent to the last: Mr. Cotton Mather pray’d with 
him at the place of Execution, and conferred with him about his Soul 
all the way thither, which was about a mile out of Boston. After being 
ty’d up, standing on the Ladder, he made the following Speech:— 

“I pray Gop that I may be a Warning to you all, and that I may 
be the last that ever shall suffer after this manner. In the fear of Gop 
I warn you to have a Care of the Sin of Drunkenness, for that’s a Sin 
that leads to all manner of Sins and Wickedness: (Mind and have a 
Care of breaking the Sixth Commandment, where it is said, Thou 
shalt do no Murder.) For when a Man is in drink, he is ready to commit 
all manner of Sin, till he fill up the Cup of the Wrath of Gop, as I 
have done, by committing that Sin of Murder. I beg of Gop, as I 
am a Dying Man, and to appear before the Lorn within a few Minutes, 
that you may take notice of what I say to you: Have a Care of Drunken- 
ness and ill Company, and mind all good Instruction, and don’t turn 

your back upon the Word of Gop, as I have done. When I have been 
at a Meeting, I have gone out of the Meeting-House to commit sin, 
and to please the Lust of my flesh: and don’t make a mock at any poor 
Object of Pity, but bless Gop, that he hath not left you, as he hath 
justly done me, to commit that horrid Sin of Murder... .” 

After he had been about an hour at the Gallows, and had prayed 
again, his Cap was pulled over his Eyes, and then having said, “O 
Lord, Receive my Spirit; I come unto thee, O Lord; I come, I come, I 
come”’; he was Turned off, and the multitude by degrees dispers’d. 
I think, during this Mournful Scene, I never saw more serious nor 
greater Compassion. 

But from the House of Mourning, I rambled to the House of Feasting; 
for Mr. York, Mr. King, with Madam Brick, Mrs. Green, Mrs. Toy, 
the Damsell and my self, took a Ramble to a place call’d Governour’s 
Island, about a mile from Boston, to see a whole Hog roasted, as did 
several other Bostonians. We went all in a Boat; and having treated 
the Fair Sex, returned in the Evening. ... . 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 421 


[RAMBLE TO MEDFORD] 


This was nothing near so pleasant a Ramble as the other; and that 
for three Reasons; for first, the Weather wasn’t so good: For tho’ the 
Sun flatter’d me in the Morning, and made me believe it wou’d be a 
fair day, yet before noon he grew sullen, drew in his exhilerating Beams, 
and muffi’d up his Face in a Cloud, so that there was no getting sight 
of him all the Day after: Nor was the Clouds’ obscuring of the Sun’s 
bright face, the only mischief that they did me; but to make my 
Rambling more uncomfortable yet, they pour’d down such a Prodi- 
gious Shower of Rain upon me, that if I wasn’t wet to th’ Skin, it was 
because my kinder Fate provided a good Shelter near at hand. For 
the chief kindness I receiv’d at Medford, was to be shelter’d by it from 
a Swinging shower of Rain, which only wet my Upper Garment,— 
and no more. 

But Secondly, Neither was my Company so good; for I had only 
with me a young Bostonian for my Guide, who when he saw that it 
began to rain, turn’d a Deserter, and foolishly turn’d back again, fast 
as his Legs cou’d carry him; by which means he was catch’d in all the 
Shower, whilst I was shelter’d by making haste to Medford. Nor thirdly, 
Did I meet with such kind Entertainment at Medford as at Charles 
Town: For here I had no Acquaintance, but took Sanctuary in a 
Publick,* where there was extraordinary good Cyder, and tho’ I hadn’t 
such a Noble Treat as at Captain Jenner’s; yet with the Cyder and 
such other Entertainment as the House afforded, (together with my 
Landlord and my Landlady’s good Company,) I made a very pretty 
thing on’t. 

I ask’d my Landlady whether if the rain continu’d, there was any 
Lodging to be had, and she was pleas’d to tell me I shou’dn’t want 
for that, tho’ she set up all night her self; I told her before she shou’d 
do so, I’d seek a Lodging out among the Indians: And ask’d my Land- 
lord whether he thought the Indians wou’d entertain me? My Land- 
lord told me there was no need of my going among them, for he 
had Lodging enough; but as to the Indians Entertaining.of me, he 
said that he had often known them (in the Summer time Especially) 
lie abroad themselves, to make room for Strangers, either English or 
others. I ask’d him what Beds they had, and he told me either Mats, 
or else Straw; and that when they lay down to sleep, they generally, 
both in Summer and Winter, made a great Fire, which serves them 
instead of Bedcloaths; and he that finds himself a-cold, must turn to 
the Fire to warm him; and they that wake first, must repair the Fire; 


422 7 The Puritans 


For as they have abundance of Fewel, so they don’t spare in laying of 
it on. He told me also that when they had a Bad Dream, they look’d 
upon it as a threatening from God, and that on such occasions they 
woud rise and fall to Prayer, at any time of the Night. 

By this time, the rain was over, tho’ it still remain’d Cloudy; and 
therefore I thought it was best taking ‘Time by the Fore-lock, and go 
back to Boston while it held up, there being nothing remarkable to 
be seen at Medford, which is but a small Village, consisting of a few 


Houses; And so paying my Reckoning, I came back to Boston in good | 


time: For I had not been long at home, before it fell a raining again 
very hard. 

My Third Ramble was to a Town called New-Town, which is 
situated three Miles from Charles-Town, on the North Side of the 
River, a league and a half by Water: This Town was first intended for 
a City, and is one of the neatest and best compacted Towns in the whole 
Countrey: It has many stately structures, and well-contrived Streets; 
Which for handsomness and beauty out-does Boston it self: The Inhabit- 
ants are generally rich, and have many hundred Acres of Land paled 
with one common Fence,—a mile and half long, affording store of Cattel. 

You will the less wonder, Cousin, at what I have said about this 
Town, when you shall know this Town, that at first was called New 
Town, is now made an University, and called Cambridge, there being 
a colledge Erected there by one Mr. John Harvard, who gave £700 for 
the Erecting of it, in the year 1638. I was invited hither by Mr. Cotton,° 
a fellow of the Colledge, by whom I was very handsomely Treated, 
and shewn all that was remarkable in it. He discours’d with me about 
my Venture of Books; and by his means I sold many of my Books to 
the Colledge. 

Among other Discourse that we had, he ask’d me, Who I look’d 
upon in England to be the best Authors, and Men of greatest Name and 
Repute? I told him, This was a very Comprehensive Question; For 
there were Authors famous in their several Faculties, some for Divinity, 
others for Philosophy, and some for the Mathematics; and several 
other Arts and Sciences; and therefore without he was more particular, 
*twould be an Endless ‘Task to answer him. He then reply’d he did 
intend chiefly Divinity; but since ’twas necessary for a Scholar to be 
universal in his knowledge, so ’twou’d be necessary for him to know 
who were the best Authors in every several Faculty I mention’d: I then 
told him I wou’d Endeavour to serve him, as far as my Memory wou’d 
give me leave: And as to Divinity, in England I must make a Distinc- 
tion between the Establish’d Church-men and the Dissenters... . 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior | 423 


‘“‘Nor must I omit [I said,] amongst these great Names, to mention 
that of Mr. John Bunyan, who tho’ a Man of but very ordinary Edu- 
cation, yet was a Man of great Natural Parts, and as well known for 
an Author thro’out England, as any I have mention’d, by the many 
Books he has Publish’d, of which the Pilgrim’s Progress bears away 
the Bell. 

“But as I said of the Church-men, so I must of the Dissenters, these 
are scarce a Tythe of the Eminent Authors among ’em. You see Sir,” 
said I, “‘what a Task you have put me upon, and therefore if I have 
been too tedious, and worn your Patience out, you must thank your 
self, since ’tis the Deference I pay to your Commands that has oc- 
casion’d it. But I shall Dispatch the others quickly. 

““As to Philosophy, especially Experimental Philosophy, there are 
the Transactions of the Royal Society, published by Dr. Grew; and 
the Celebrated Works of the Honourable Robert Boyle, Esq., who is 
also as great a Divine as a Philosopher, as his style of the Scriptures, 
Occasional Reflections, and his Seraphic Love will Witness. 

“For Law, Fleta, Bracton, and Cook upon Littleton, are Eminent. 
There are also the Reports of Sir Geoffery Palmer, ‘and divers other 
Learned Judges, Eminent in their times. Among which Sir Mathew 
Hale, late Lord Chief Justice of England, must not be forgotten, who 
was the Perfect Pattern of an Upright Judge, and as great a Philosopher 
and Divine as a Lawyer; as Divine Origination of Mankind in Folio, 
and his Meditations and Contemplations, in Octavo, which are Excel- 
lent things, do abundantly Evidence. 

“For Physick, the Learned Dr. Willett is a Famous Author, and 
Dr. Salmon by his Dispensatory, and several other Books, is very well 
known. 

“For the Mathematicks, Sir Jonas Moore and Mr. William Leybourn 
are both very Eminent Authors. 

“And for Poetry, the Immortal Cowley, who first brought in the 
use of Pindarick Poetry in English. Besides whom we have Dryden, 
Shadwel, Tate, Settle, and several others, very Eminent Authors. 

Nor must we here forget to do justice to the Fair Sex, Mrs. Katharine 
Philips having made herself deservedly Famous for her Excellent 
Poetical Pieces; Mrs. Behn also has approved her self a Devotee to the 
Muses; and not the least, tho’ the last, is the Incomparable Philomela; 
than whom, none has drunk a larger Draught at the Heliconian Spring, 
or been a greater Favourite of the Muses.” 

Mr. Cotton gave me many thanks for the Account I had given him 
of our English Authors; many of whom he said he had before heard 


424 The Puritans 


on, and had some of their Works; but others of them were till now 
altogether unknown to him; but now that he knew them, he intended 
to enlarge his study with some of their Writings. I told him I was very 
glad I had in any measure gratified his Curiosity: And added, That 
since I had given him an Account of some of the most Eminent of our 
Old English Authors, he wou’d by way of Retaliation give me some 
little Account of their New-England Authors, for I did not doubt 
but there were many that had done worthily in this Countrey. 

To this Mr. Cotton reply’d: “That I cou’d not expect New-England | 
cou’d compare with Old, either for the Number of Authors, or the 
Excellency of their Parts and Endowments; New-England being only 
a Colony; and all their Learning but as springs from those two Foun- 
tains in Old England, Oxford and Cambridge: However, we have not 
been without Excellent Men in this Countrey: And amongst the first 
Planters here, Mr. John Cotton, and Mr. Seaborn Cotton, his Son, 
are deservedly Famous; and Mr. Shepherd for the many Excellent 
Tracts written by him, has his Praise in all the Churches: The many 
impressions that have been made of his Sincere Convert and Sound 
Believer, both at London, and here at Boston, shews what acceptance 
they have mett with in the World; his Parable of the Ten Virgins also, 
tho’ in Folio, has been several times printed. 

“Nor must the Famous Mr. Elliot (who is still living, tho’ very aged,) 6 
be Omitted; whose indefatigable Zeal and Industry, both by Printing 
and Preaching, for the Conversion of the Indians, has given Place to 
none. 

*‘And as to our Modern Authors, the Reverend Mr. Increase Mather, 
the Present Rector of our Colledge, holds the chief Rank, whose Uni- 
versal knowledge, both in Divine and Humane Learning, is very well 
known both in New-England and Old too: And his Worthy Son, 
Mr. Cotton Mather, does not come much short of his Father; and his 
Works do also praise him in the Gate: And to the Honour of our 
Colledge do I speak it, he was brought up in it. And tho’ our Colledge 
does not pretend to compare it self with any either in Oxford or Cam- 
bridge, yet has there been brought up in it since its Foundation, 122 
Ministers; of which Ten are dead, seventy-one remain still in the 
Country, and Forty-one are removed to England. 

““As to the other of our Boston-Ministers, I believe you have heard 
’em, and know ’em to be good Preachers, and men of great Parts; 
There are also several eminent Ministers in several Parts of the Coun- 
trey, but of them, I can give you but a small Account, having little 
Acquaintance with them, and therefore shall pass them by.” | 


\ 


4 
Manners, Customs, and Behavior A25 


I then gave Mr. Cotton many thanks for the Trouble I had put him 
to, and promised him a Catalogue of my Books as soon as I cou’d 
write it out, and so took my leave of him. 


SARAH KEMBLE KNIGHT, 1666-1727 


[The most sprightly and graphic picture of rustic manners in the 
early eighteenth century has been left in the record of a journey made 
by Sarah Kemble Knight from Boston to New York in 1704. The 
intrepid business woman, who at one time kept a writing-school which 
young Benjamin Franklin is said to have attended, had interests to 
look after in New York. On October 2 she left Boston on horseback 
and alone, except for the companions she hired or fell in with along 
the way. The route she chose led through Rhode Island and New 
Haven, and she followed the same roads home in March, 1705. Such 
a trip, hazardous for anyone, was extraordinary for a woman. The 
discomforts and annoyances of the journey she met with tolerant humor 
and a certain mocking resignation. 

Madam Knight’s husband was a Boston merchant about whom 
little is known. In later life she removed to New Haven where she died, 
leaving an estate valued at £1800. Her Journal was first published, 
along with that of the Reverend Mr. Thomas Buckingham of Hartford, 
in New York, 1825, by Theodore Dwight. It has most recently been 
printed with an introduction by George P. Winship (Boston, 1920; 
facsimile reprint, 1935). In no other published journal of the period 
will the student of colonial dialect find a more racy idiom recorded. 

The text is here given entire from the first edition. For an account 
of Madam Knight, see Dictionary of American Biography; also Anson 
Titus, “Madam Sarah Knight, Her Diary and Her Times,” Bostonian 
Society Publications, IX (1912), 99-126.] 


THE JOURNAL OF MADAM KNIGHT. 


ONDAY, Octb’r. y® second, 1704.—About three o’clock afternoon, 

I begun my Journey from Boston to New-Haven; being about 

two Hundred Mile. My Kinsman, Capt. Robert Luist, waited on me 
as farr as Dedham, where I was to meet y* Western post. 

I vissitted the Reverd. Mr. Belcher,t ye Minister of ye town, and 
tarried there till evening, in hopes y® post would come along. But he 
not coming, I resolved to go to Billingses where he used to lodg, being 
12 miles further. But being ignorant of the way, Mad™ Billings,” seing 


426 a The Puritans 


no persuasions of her good spouses or hers could prevail with me to 
Lodg there that night, Very kindly went wyth me to ye Tavern, where 
I hoped to get my guide, And desired the Hostess to inquire of her 
guests whether any of them would go with mee. But they being tyed 
by the Lipps to a pewter engine, scarcely allowed themselves time to 
say what clownish ****** 
| Here half a page of the MS. is gone.| 

*** Peices of eight, I told her no, I would not be accessary to such 
extortion. 

Then John shan’t go, sais shee. No, indeed, shan’t hee; And held 
forth at that rate a long time, that I began to fear I was got among the 
Quaking tribe, beleeving not a Limbertong’d sister among them could 
out do Madm. Hostes. 

Upon this, to my no small surprise, son John arrose, and gravely de- 
manded what I would give him to go with me? Give you, sais I, are 
you John? Yes, says he, for want of a Better; And behold! this John 
look’t as old as my Host, and perhaps had bin a man in the last Cen- 
tury. Well, Mr. John, sais I, make your demands. Why, half a pss. of 
eight and a dram, sais John. I agreed, and gave him a Dram (now) in 
hand to bind the bargain. 

My hostess catechis’d John for going so cheep, saying his poor wife 
would break her heart ***** 

[Here another half page of the MS is gone.| 
His shade on his Hors resembled a Globe on a Gate post. His habitt, 
Hors and furniture, its looks and goings Incomparably answered the rest. 

Thus Jogging on with an easy pace, my Guide telling mee it was 
dangero’s to Ride hard in the Night, (whe his horse had the sence to 
avoid,) Hee entertained me with the Adventurs he had passed by late 
Rideing, and eminent Dangers he had escaped, so that, Remembring 
the Hero’s in Parismus and the Knight of the Oracle,? I didn’t know 
but I had mett wt a Prince disguis’d. . 

When we had Ridd about an how’r, wee come into a thick swamp, 
wch. by Reason of a great fogg, very much startled mee, it being now 
very Dark. But nothing dismay’d John: Hee had encountered a thou- 
sand and a thousand such Swamps, having a Universall Knowledge in 
the woods; and readily Answered all my inquiries wch. were not a few. 

In about an how’r, or something more, after we left the Swamp, we 
come to Billinges, where I was to Lodg. My Guide dismounted and 
very Complasantly help’t me down and shewd the door, signing to 
me w*® his hand to Go in; w I Gladly did—But had not gone many 
steps into the Room, ere I was Interogated by a young Lady I under- 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 427 


stood afterwards was the Eldest daughter of the family, with these, or 
words to this purpose, (viz.) Law for mee—what in the world brings 
You here at this time a night?—I never see a woman on the Rode so 
Dreadfull late, in all the days of my versall life. Who are You? Where 
are You going? I’me scar’d out of my witts—with much now of the 
same Kind. I stood aghast, Prepareing to reply, when in comes my © 
Guide—to him Madam turn’d, Roreing out: Lawfull heart, John, is 
it You?—how de do! Where in the world are you going with this 
woman? Who is she? John made no Ansr. but sat down in the corner, 
fumbled out his black Junk,‘ and saluted that instead of Debb; she then 
turned agen to mee and fell anew into her silly questions, without asking 
me to sitt down. 

I told her shee treated me very Rudely, and I did not think it my 
duty to answer her unmannerly Questions. But to get ridd of them, I 
told her I come there to have the post’s company with me to-morrow 
on my Journey, &c. Miss star’d awhile, drew a chair, bid me sitt, And 
then run up stairs and putts on two or three Rings, (or else I had not 
seen them before,) and returning, sett herself just before me, showing 
the way to Reding, that I might see her Ornaments, perhaps to gain 
the more respect. But her Granam’s new Rung ° sow, had it appeared, 
would affected me as much. I paid honest John wt money and dram 
according to contract, and Dismist him, and pray’d Miss to shew me 
where I must Lodg. Shee conducted me to a parlour in a little back 
Lento,° we was almost fill’d wt the bedsted, wet was so high that I 
was forced to climb on a chair to gitt up to y® wretched bed that lay 
on it; on w% having Stretcht my tired Limbs, and lay’d my head on a 
Sad-colourd pillow, I began to think on the transactions of y® past day. 

Tuesday, October y* third, about 8 in the morning, I with the Post 
proceeded forward without observing any thing remarkable; And about 
two, afternoon, Arrived at the Post’s second stage, where the western 
Post mett him and exchanged Letters. Here, having called for some- 
thing to eat, ye woman bro’t in a Twisted thing like a cable, but some- 
thing whiter; and laying it on the bord, tugg’d for life to bring it into 
a capacity to spread; w% having wt» great pains accomplished, shee 
serv d in a dish of Pork and Cabage, I suppose the remains of Dinner. 
The sause was of a deep Purple, we I tho’t was boil’d in her dye Kettle; 
the bread was Indian, and every thing on the Table service Agreeable 
to these. I, being hungry, gott a little down; but my stomach was 
soon cloy’d, and what cabbage I swallowed serv’d me for a Cudd the 
whole day after. 

Having here discharged the Ordnary for self and Guide, (as I under- 


428 The Puritans 


stood was the custom,) About Three afternoon went on with my Third 
Guide, who Rode very hard; and having crossed Providence Ferry, 
we come to a River w% they Generally Ride thro’. But I dare not 
venture; so the Post got a Ladd and Cannoo to carry me to tother side, 
and hee rid thro’ and Led my hors. The Cannoo was very small and 
shallow, so that when we were in she seem’d redy to take in water, 
which greatly terrified mee, and caused me to be very circumspect, 
sitting with my hands fast on each side, my eyes stedy, not daring so 
much as to lodg my tongue a hair’s breadth more on one side of my | 
mouth then tother, nor so much as think on Lott’s wife,-for a wry 
thought would have oversett our wherey: But was soon put out of 
this pain, by feeling the Cannoo on shore, w* I as soon almost saluted 
with my feet; and Rewarding my sculler, again mounted and made 
the best of our way forwards. The Rode here was very even and ye 
day pleasant, it being now near Sunsett. But the Post told mee we had 
neer 14 miles to Ride to the next Stage, (where we were to Lodg.) 
I askt him of the rest of the Rode, foreseeing wee must travail in the 
night. Hee told mee there was a bad River we were to Ride thro’, 
ws was so very firce a hors could sometimes hardly stem it: But it 
was but narrow, and wee should soon be over. I cannot express The 
concern of mind this relation sett me in: no thoughts but those of the 
dang’ros River could entertain my Imagination, and they were as 
formidable as varios, still ‘tormenting me with blackest Ideas of my 
Approaching fate—Sometimes seing my self drowning, otherwhiles 
drowned, and at the best like a holy Sister Just come out of a Spiritual 
Bath in dripping Garments. 

Now was the Glorious Luminary, w** his swift Coursers arrived at 
his Stage, leaving poor me w* the rest of this part of the lower world 
in darkness, with which wee were soon Surrounded. The only Glimer- 
ing we now had was from the spangled Skies, Whose Imperfect Re- 
flections rendered every Object formidable. Each lifeless Trunk, with 
its shatter’d Limbs, appear’d an Armed Enymie; and every little 
stump like a Ravenous devourer. Nor could I so much as discern my 
Guide, when at any distance, which added to the terror. 

Thus, absolutely lost in Thought, and dying with the very thoughts 
of drowning, I come up w* the post, who I did not see till even with 
his Hors: he told mee he stopt for mee; and wee Rode on Very de- 
liberatly a few paces, when we entred a Thickett of Trees and Shrubbs, 
and I perceived by the Hors’s going, we were on the descent of a Hill, 
wh, as wee come neerer the bottom, ’twas totaly dark w*+ the Trees 
that surrounded it. But I knew by the Going of the Hors wee had 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 429 


entred the water, w® my Guide told mee was the hazzardos River he 
had told me off; and hee, Riding up close to my Side, Bid me not fear— 
we should be over Imediatly. I now ralyed all the Courage I was mis- 
triss of, Knowing that I must either Venture my fate of drowning, or be 
left like ye Children in the wood. So, as the Post bid me, I gave Reins 
to my Nagg; and sitting as Stedy as Just before in the Cannoo, in a 
few minutes got safe to the other side, which hee told mee was the 
Narragansett country. 

Here We found great difficulty in Travailing, the way being very 
narrow, and on each side the Trees and bushes gave us very unpleasent 
welcomes w*+ their Branches and bow’s, w* wee could not avoid, it 
being so exceeding dark. My Guide, as before so now, putt on harder 
than I, wt my weary bones, could follow; so left mee and the way 
beehind him. Now Returned my distressed aprehensions of the place 
where I was: the dolesome woods, my Company next to none, Going 
I knew not whither, and encompased w*> Terrifying darkness; The 
least of which was enough to startle a more Masculine courage. Added 
to which the Reflections, as in the afternoon of ye day that my Call 
was very Questionable, w till then I had not so Prudently as I ought 
considered. Now, coming to y? foot of a hill, I found great difficulty in 
ascending; But being got to the Top, was there amply recompenced 
with the friendly Appearance of the Kind Conductress of the night, 
Just then Advancing above the Horisontall Line. The Raptures we 
the Sight of that fair Planett produced in mee, caus’d mee, for the 
Moment, to forgett my present wearyness and past toils; and Inspir’d 
me for most of the remaining way with very divirting tho’ts, some of 
which, with the other Occurances of the day, I reserved to note down 
when I should come to my Stage. My tho’ts on the sight of the moon 
were to this purpose: 


Fair Cynthia, all the Homage that I may 

Unto a Creature, unto thee I pay; 

In Lonesome woods to meet so kind a guide, 
To Mee’s more worth than all the world beside. 
Some Joy I felt just now, when safe got or’e 
Yon Surly River to this Rugged shore, 
Deeming Rough welcomes from these clownish Trees, 
Better than Lodgings wt Nereidees. 

Yet swelling fears surprise; all dark appears— 
Nothing but Light can disipate those fears. 

My fainting vitals can’t lend strength to say, 
But softly whisper, O I wish ’twere day. 


430 i The Puritans 


The murmer hardly warm’d the Ambient air, 
E’re thy Bright Aspect rescues from dispair: 
Makes the old Hagg her sable mantle loose, 
And a Bright Joy do’s through my Soul diffuse. 
The Boistero’s Trees now Lend a Passage Free, 
And pleasent prospects thou giv’st light to see. 


From hence wee kept on, with more ease, y" before: the way being 


smooth and even, the night warm and serene, and the Tall and thick | 


Trees at a distance, especially w™ the moon glar’d light through the’' 


branches, fill’?d my Imagination w*' the pleasent delusion of a Sump- 
teous citty, fill’d wt» famous Buildings and churches, wt» their spiring 
steeples, Balconies, Galleries and I know not what: Granduers w 
I had heard of, and w° the stories of foreign countries had given me 


the Idea of. 


Here stood a Lofty church—there is a steeple, 
And there the Grand Parade—O see the people! 
That Famous Castle there, were I but nigh, 

To see the mote and Bridg and walls so high— 
They’r very fine! sais my deluded eye. 


Being thus agreably entertain’d without a thou’t of any thing but 
thoughts themselves, I] on a suden was Rous’d from these pleasing 
Imaginations, by the Post’s sounding his horn, which assured mee 
hee was arrived at the Stage, where we were to Lodg: and that musick 
was then most musickall and agreeable to mee. 

Being come to mr. Havens’, I was very civilly Received, and courte- 
ously entertained, in a clean comfortable House; and the Good woman 
was very active in helping off my Riding clothes, and then ask’t what I 
would eat. I told her I had some Chocolett, if shee would prepare it; 
which with the help of some Milk, and a little clean brass Kettle, she 
soon effected to my satisfaction. I then betook me to my Apartment, 
w2 was a little Room parted from the Kitchen by a single bord parti- 
tion; where, after I had noted the Occurrances of the past day, I went 
to bed, which, tho’ pretty hard, Yet neet and handsome. But I could 
get no sleep, because of the Clamor of some the of ‘Town tope-ers in 
next Room, Who were entred into a strong debate concerning y? 
Signifycation of the name of their Country, (viz.) Narraganset. One said 
it was named so by y® Indians, because there grew a Brier there, of a 
prodigious Highth and bigness, the like hardly ever known, called by 
the Indians Narragansett; And quotes an Indian of so Barberous a 
name for his Author, that I could not write it. His Antagonist Replyed 


3 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 431 


no—It was from a Spring it had its name, w°? hee well knew where it 
was, which was extreem cold in summer, and as Hott as could be 
imagined in the winter, which was much resorted too by the natives, 
and by them called Narragansett, (Hott and Cold,) and that was the 
originall of their places name—with a thousand Impertinances not 
worth notice, w* He utter’d with such a Roreing voice and Thunder- 
ing blows with the fist of wickedness on the Table, that it peirced my 
very head. I heartily fretted, and wish’t um tongue tyed; but w*t 
as little succes as a freind of mine once, who was (as shee said) kept a 
whole night awake, on a Jorny, by a country Left.’ and a Sergent, 
Insigne and a Deacon, contriving how to bring a triangle into a Square. 
They kept calling for tother Gill, w* while they were swallowing, was 
some Intermission; But presently, like Oyle to fire, encreased the flame. 
I set my Candle on a Chest by the bed side, and setting up, fell to my 
old way of composing my Resentments, in the following manner: 

I ask thy Aid, O Potent Rum! 

To Charm these wrangling Topers Dum. 

Thou hast their Giddy Brains possest— 

The man confounded w the Beast— 

And I, poor I, can get no rest. 

Intoxicate them with thy fumes: 

O still their ‘Tongues till morning comes! 


And I know not but my wishes took effect; for the dispute soon ended 
wth *tother Dram; and so Good night! 

Wedensday, Octobt 4th. About four in the morning, we set out for 
Kingston (for so was the Town called) with a french Docter in our - 
company. Hee and y* Post put on very furiously, so that I could not 
keep up with them, only as now and then they’d stop till they see mee. 
This Rode was poorly furnished w‘t accommodations for Travellers, 
so that we were forced to ride 22 miles by the post’s account, but neerer 
thirty by mine, before,.wee could bait so much as our Horses, we 
I exceedingly complained of. But the post encourag’d mee, by saying 
wee should be well accommodated anon at mr. Devills, a few miles 
further. But I questioned whether we ought to go to the Devil to be 
helpt out of affliction. However, like the rest of Deluded souls that 
post to y® Infernal denn, Wee made all posible speed to this Devil’s 
Habitation; where alliting, in full assurance of good accommodation, 
wee were going in. But meeting his two daughters, as I suposed twins, 
they so neerly resembled each other, both in features and habit, and 
look’t as old as the Divel himselfe, and quite as Ugly, We desired 
entertainm’t, but could hardly get a word out of ’um, till with our 


432 | | | The Puritans 


Importunity, telling them our necesity, &c. they call’d the old Sophis- 
ter, who was as sparing of his words as his daughters had bin, and no, 
or none, was the reply’s hee made us to our demands. Hee differed 
only in this from the old fellow in to’ther Country: hee let us depart. 
However, I thought it proper to warn poor Travailers to endeavour to 
Avoid falling into circumstances like ours, wet at our next Stage I sat 
down and did as followeth: 


May all that dread the cruel feind of night 

Keep on, and not at this curs’t Mansion light. 
*Tis Hell; ’tis Hell! and Devills here do dwell: 
Here dwells the Devill—surely this’s Hell. 
Nothing but Wants: a drop to cool yo’r Tongue 
Cant be procur’d these cruel Feinds among. 
Plenty of horrid Grins and looks sevear, | 
Hunger and thirst, But pitty’s bannish’d here— 
The Right hand keep, if Hell on Earth you fear! 


Thus leaving this habitation of cruelty, we went forward; and arriving 
at an Ordinary about two mile further, found tollerable accommoda- 
tion. But our Hostes, being a pretty full mouth’d old creature, enter- 
tain’d our fellow travailer, ye french Docter, w*® Inumirable complaints 
of her bodily infirmities; and whispered to him so lou’d, that all ye 
House had as full a hearing as hee: which was very divirting to ye 
company, (of which there was a great many,) as one might see by their 
sneering. But poor weary I slipt out to enter my mind in my Jornal, 
and left my Great Landly with her Talkative Guests to themselves. 
From hence we proceeded (about ten forenoon) through the Narra- 

gansett country, pretty Leisurely; and about one afternoon come to 
Paukataug River, we was about two hundred paces over, and now 
very high, and no way over to to’ther side but this. I darid not venture 
to Ride thro, my courage at best in such cases but small, And now at 
the Lowest Ebb, by reason of my weary, very weary, hungry and un- 
easy Circumstances. So takeing leave of my company, tho’ w*' no little 
Reluctance, that I could not proceed wt them on my Jorny, Stop 
at a little cottage Just by the River, to wait the Waters falling, w™ 
the old man that lived there said would be in a little time, and he. 
would conduct me safe over. ‘This little Hutt was one of the wretchedest 
I ever saw a habitation for human creatures. It was suported with 
shores enclosed with Clapbords, laid on Lengthways, and so much 
asunder, that the Light come throu’ every where; the doore tyed on 
w*) a cord in y® place of hinges; The floor the bear earth; no windows 
but such as the thin covering afforded, nor any furniture but a Bedd 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 433 


wth a glass Bottle hanging at y* head on’t; an earthan cupp, a small 
pewter Bason, A Bord w*» sticks to stand on, instead of a table, and 
a block or two in y® corner instead of chairs. The family were the old 
man, his wife and two Children; all and every part being the picture 
of poverty. Notwithstanding both the Hutt and its Inhabitance were 
very clean and tydee: to the crossing the Old Proverb, that bare walls 
make giddy hows-wifes.® 

I Blest myselfe that I was not one of this misserable crew; and the 
Impressions their wretchedness formed in me caused mee on y® very 
Spott to say: 


Tho’ Ill at ease, A stranger and alone, 

All my fatigu’s shall not extort a grone. 
These Indigents have hunger wth their ease; 
Their best is wors behalfe then my disease. 
Their Misirable hutt wch Heat and Cold 
Alternately without Repulse do hold; 

Their Lodgings thyn and hard, their Indian fare, 
The mean Apparel which the wretches wear, 
And their ten thousand ills wch can’t be told, 
Makes nature er’e ’tis midle age’d look old. 
When I reflect, my late fatigues do seem 
Only a notion or forgotten Dreem. 


I had scarce done thinking, when an Indian-like Animal come to the 
door, on a creature very much like himselfe, in mien and feature, as 
well as Ragged cloathing; and having ’litt, makes an Awkerd Scratch 
wth his Indian shoo, and a Nodd, sitts on y? block, fumbles out his black 
Junk,° dipps it in ye Ashes, and presents it piping hott to his muscheeto’s, 
and fell to sucking like a calf, without speaking, for near a quarter of an 
hower. At length the old man said how do’s Sarah do? who I under- 
stood was the wretches wife, and Daughter to ye old man: he Replyed 
—as well as can be expected, &c. So I remembred the old say, and su- 
posed I knew Sarah’s case. Butt hee being, as I understood, going over 
the River, as ugly as hee was, I was glad to ask him to show me y? 
way to Saxtons, at Stoningtown; w% he promising, I ventur’d over 
w'» the old mans assistance; who having rewarded to content, with 
my ‘Tattertailed guide, I Ridd on very slowly thro’ Stoningtown, 
where the Rode was very Stony and uneven. I asked the fellow, as we 
went, divers questions of the place and way, &c. I being arrived at my 
country Saxtons, at Stonington, was very well accommodated both 
as to victuals and Lodging, the only Good of both I had found since 
my setting out. Here I heard there was an old man and his Daughter 


434 The Puritans 


to come that way, bound to N. London; and being now destitute of 
a Guide, gladly waited for them, being in so good a harbour, and 
accordingly, Thirsday, Octobt y® 5th, about 3 in the afternoon, I sat 
forward with neighbour Polly and Jemima, a Girl about 18 Years old, 
who hee said he had been to fetch out of the Narragansetts, and said 
they had Rode thirty miles that day, on a sory lean Jade, w** only a 
Bagg under her for a pillion, which the poor Girl often complain’d 
was very uneasy. ; 

Wee made Good speed along, we? made poor Jemima make many a 
sow’r face, the mare being a very hard trotter; and after many a hearty 
and bitter Oh, she at length Low’d out: Lawful Heart father! this bare 
mare hurts mee Dingeely, me direfull sore I vow; with many words 
to that purpose: poor Child sais Gaffer—she us’t to serve your mother 
so. I don’t care how mother us’t to do, quoth Jemima, in a pasionate 
tone. At which the old man Laught, and kik’t his Jade o’ the side, which 
made her Jolt ten times harder. 

About seven that Evening, we come to New London Ferry: here, 
by reason of a very high wind, we mett with great difficulty in getting 
over—the Boat tos’t exceedingly, and our Horses capper’d at a very 
surprizing Rate, and set us all in a fright; especially poor Jemima, who 
desired her father to say so jack to the Jade, to make her stand. But 
the careless parent, taking no notice of her repeated desires, She Rored 
out in a Passionate manner: Pray suth father, Are you deaf? Say so 
Jack to the Jade, I tell you. The Dutiful Parent obey’s; saying so Jack, 
so Jack, as gravely as if hee’d bin to saying Catechise after Young 
Miss, who with her fright look’t of all coullers in ye Rain Bow. 

Being safely arrived at the house of Mrs. Prentices in N. London, I 
treated neighbour Polly and daughter for their divirting company, and 
bid them farewell; and between nine and ten at night waited on the 
Rev4 Mr. Gurdon Saltonstall,'° minister of the town, who kindly Invited 
me to Stay that night at his house, where I was very handsomely and 
plentifully treated and Lodg’d; and made good the Great Character 
. I had before heard concerning him: viz. that hee was the most affable, 
courteous, Genero’s and best of men. 

Friday, Octot 6th. I got up very early, in Order to hire somebody to 
go with mee to New Haven, being in Great parplexity at the thoughts 
of proceeding alone; which my most hospitable entertainer observing, 
himselfe went, and soon return’d wt a young Gentleman of the town, 
who he could confide in to Go with mee; and about eight this morning, 
wth Mr. Joshua Wheeler my new Guide, takeing leave of this worthy 
Gentleman, Wee advanced on towards Seabrook. The Rodes all along 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 435 


this way are very bad, Incumbred w*» Rocks and mountainos passages, 
wth were very disagreeable to my tired carcass; but we went on with a 
moderate pace wet made y* Journy more pleasent. But after about 
eight miles Rideing, in going over a Bridge under w* the River Run 
very swift, my hors stumbled, and very narrowly ’scaped falling over 
into the water; w% extreemly frightened mee. But through God’s 
Goodness I met with no harm, and mounting agen, in about half a 
miles Rideing, come to an ordinary, were well entertained by a woman 
of about seventy and vantage, but of as Sound Intellectuals as one of 
seventeen. Shee entertain’>d Mr. Wheeler w*® some passages of a Wed- 
ding awhile ago at a place hard by, the Brides-Groom being about 
her Age or something above, Saying his Children was dredfully against 
their fathers marrying, w*» shee condemned them extreemly for. 

From hence wee went pretty briskly forward, and arriv’d at Say- 
brook ferry about two of the Clock afternoon; and crossing it, wee call’d 
at an Inn to Bait, (foreseeing we should not have such another Oppor- 
tunity till we come to Killingsworth.) Landlady come in, with her hair 
about her ears, and hands at full pay scratching. Shee told us shee 
had some mutton w% shee would broil, we? I was glad to hear; But I 
supose forgot to wash her scratchers; in a little time shee brot it in; 
but it being pickled, and my Guide said it smelt strong of head 
sause, we left it, and p4 sixpence a piece for our Dinners, w** was 
only smell. 

So wee putt forward with all speed, and about seven at night come 
to Killingsworth, and were tollerably well with Travillers: fare, and 
Lodgd there that night. ) 

Saturday, Oct. 7th, we sett out early in the Morning, and being 
something unaquainted wt» the way, having ask’t it of some wee mett, 
they told us wee must Ride a mile or two and turne down a Lane on the 
Right hand; and by their Direction wee Rode on but not Yet comeing 
to y® turning, we mett'a Young fellow and ask’t him how farr it was 
_ to the Lane which turn’d down towards Guilford. Hee said wee must 
Ride a little further, and turn down by the Corner of uncle Sams 
Lott. My Guide vented his Spleen at the Lubber; and we soon after 
came into the Rhode, and keeping still on, without any thing further 
Remarkabell, about two a clock afternoon we arrived at New Haven, 
where I was received with all Posible Respects and civility. Here I dis- 
charged Mr. Wheeler with a reward to his satisfaction, and took some 
time to rest after so long and toilsome a Journey; And Inform’d myselfe 
of the manners and customs of the place, and at the same time em- 
ployed myselfe in the afair I went there upon. 


436 The Puritans 


They are Govern’d by the same Laws as wee in Boston, (or little 
differing,) thr’out this whole Colony of Connecticot, And much the 
same way of Church Government, and many of them good, Sociable 
people, and I hope Religious too: but a little too much Independant 
in their principalls, and, as I have been told, were formerly in their 
Zeal very Riggid in their Administrations towards such as their Lawes 
made Offenders, even to a harmless Kiss or Innocent merriment among 
Young people. Whipping being a frequent and counted an easy Punish- 


ment, about w% as other Crimes, the Judges were absolute in their — 


Sentances. They told mee a pleasant story about a pair of Justices in 
those parts, wt I may not omit the relation of. 

A negro Slave belonging to a man in y* Town, stole a hogs head from 
his master, and gave or sold it to an Indian, native of the place. The 
Indian sold it in the neighbourhood, and so the theft was found out. 
Thereupon the Heathen was Seized, and carried to the Justices House 
to be Examined. But his worship (it seems) was gone into the feild, 
with a Brother in office, to gather in his Pompions.! Whither the male- 
factor is hurried, And Complaint made, and satisfaction in the name 
of Justice demanded. Their Worships cann’t proceed in form without 
a Bench: whereupon they Order one to be Imediately erected, which, 
for want of fitter materials, they made with pompions—which being 
finished, down setts their Worships, and the Malefactor call’d, and by 
the Senior Justice Interrogated after the following manner. You Indian 
why did You steal from this man? You sho’dn’t do so—it’s a Grandy 
wicked thing to steal. Hol’t Hol’t, cryes Justice Jun™ Brother, You 
speak negro to him. I’le ask him. You sirrah, why did You steal this 
man’s Hoggshead? Hoggshead? (replys the Indian,) me no stomany. 
No? says his Worship; and pulling off his hatt, Patted his own head 
with his hand, sais, ‘Tatapa—You, Tatapa—you; all one this. Hoggs- 
head all one this. Hah! says Netop, now me stomany that. Whereupon 
the Company fell into a great fitt of Laughter, even to Roreing. Silence 
is comanded, but to no effect: for they continued perfectly Shouting. 
Nay, sais his worship, in an angry tone, if it be so, take mee off the Bench. 

Their Diversions in this part of the Country are on Lecture days 
and Training days mostly: 12 on the former there is Riding from town 
to town. 

And on training dayes The Youth divert themselves by Shooting 
at the Target, as they call it, (but it very much resembles a pillory,) 
where hee that hitts neerest the white has some yards of Red Ribbin 
presented him, w% being tied to his hattband, the two ends streeming 
down his back, he is Led away in Triumph, w* great applause, as the 


- 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 437 


winners of the Olympiack Games. They generally marry very young: 
the males oftener as I am told under twentie than above; they generally 
make public wedings, and have a way something singular (as they 
say) in some of them, viz. Just before Joyning hands the Bridegroom 
quitts the place, who is soon followed by the Bridesmen, and as it 
were, dragg’d back to duty—being the reverse to y* former practice 
among us, to steal ms Pride. 

There are great plenty of Oysters all along by the sea side, as farr 
as I Rode in the Collony, and those very good. And they Generally 
lived very well and comfortably in their famelies. But too Indulgent 
(especially ye farmers) to their slaves: sufering too great familiarity 
from them, permitting y™ to sit at Table and eat with them, (as they 
say to save time,) and into the dish goes the black hoof as freely as the 
white hand. They told me that there was a farmer lived nere the Town 
where I lodgd who had some difference w* his slave, concerning some- 
thing the master had promised him and did not punctualy perform; 
w°. caused some hard words between them; But at length they put the 
matter to Arbitration and Bound themselves to stand to the award of 
such as they named—w* done, the Arbitrators Having heard the Alle- 
gations of both parties, Order the master to pay 405 to black face, and 
acknowledge his fault. And so the matter ended: the poor master very 
honestly standing to the award. 

There are every where in the Towns as I passed, a Number of Indians 
the Natives of the Country, and are the most salvage of all the salvages 
of that kind that I had ever Seen: little or no care taken (as I heard 
upon enquiry) to make them otherwise. They have in some places 
Landes of their owne, and Govern’d by Law’s of their own making;— 
they marry many wives and at pleasure put them away, and on the 
y° least dislike or fickle humour, on either side, saying stand away to 
one another is a sufficient Divorce. And indeed those uncomely Stand 
aways are too much in Vougue among the English in this (Indulgent 
Colony) as their Records plentifully prove, and that on very trivial 
matters, of which some have been told me, but are not proper to be 
Related by a Female pen, tho some of that foolish sex have had too 
large a share in the story. 

If the natives committ any crime on their own precincts among them- 
selves, y° English takes no Cognezens of. But if on the English ground, 
they are punishable by our Laws. They mourn for their Dead by black- 
ing their faces, and cutting their hair, after an Awkerd and frightfull 
manner; But can’t bear You should mention the names of their dead 
Relations to them: they trade most for Rum, for w* they? hazzard 


438 The Puritans 


their very lives; and the English fit them Generally as well, by season- 
ing it plentifully with water. 

They give the title of merchant to every trader; who Rate their 
Goods according to the time and spetia they pay in: viz. Pay, mony, 
Pay as mony, and trusting. Pay is Grain, Pork, Beef, &c. at the prices 
sett by the General Court that Year; mony is pieces of Eight, Ryalls, 
or Boston or Bay shillings (as they call them,) or Good hard money, 
as sometimes silver coin is termed by them; also Wampom, viz*- Indian 
beads we? serves for change. Pay as mony is provisions, as afores4 one — 
Third cheaper then as the Assembly or Gene! Court sets it; and Trust 
as they and the merch agree for time. 

Now, when the buyer comes to ask for a comodity, sometimes before 
the merchant answers that he has it, he sais, 2s Your pay redy? Perhaps 
the Chap Reply’s Yes: what do You pay in? say’s the merchant. The 
buyer having answered, then the price is set; as suppose he wants a 
sixpenny knife, in pay it is 12d—in pay as money eight pence, and hard 
money its own price, viz. 6d. It seems a very Intricate way of trade and 
what Lex Mercatoria !3 had not thought of. 

Being at a merchants house, in comes a tall country fellow, w® 
his alfogeos 4 full of Tobacco; for they seldom Loose their Cudd, but 
keep Chewing and Spitting as long as they’r eyes are open,—he ad- 
vanc’t to the midle of the Room, makes an Awkward Nodd, and spitting 
a Large deal of Aromatick ‘Tincture, he gave a scrape with his shovel 
like shoo, leaving a small shovel full of dirt on the floor, made a full 
stop, Hugging his own pretty Body with his hands under his arms, 
Stood staring rown’d him, like a Catt let out of a Baskett. At last, like 
the creature Balaam Rode on, he opened his mouth and said: have 
You any Ribinen for Hatbands to sell I pray? The Questions and 
Answers about the pay being past, the Ribin is bro’t and opened. 
Bumpkin Simpers, cryes its confounded Gay I vow; and beckning to 
the door, in comes Jone Tawdry, dropping about 50 curtsees, and 
stands by him: hee shows her the Ribin. Law, You, sais shee, tts right 
Gent,!> do You, take it, tis dreadfull pretty. ‘Then she enquires, have You 
any hood silk I pray? we being brought and bought, Have You any 
thred silk to sew it w” says shee, we? being accomodated w they De- 
parted. They Generaly stand after they come in a great while speach- 
less, and sometimes dont say a word till they are askt what they want, 
which I Impute to the Awe they stand in of the merchants, who they 
are constantly almost Indebted too; and must take what they bring 
without Liberty to choose for themselves; but they serve them as well, 
making the merchants stay long enough for their pay. 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 439 


We may Observe here the great necessity and bennifitt both of Edu- 
cation and Conversation; for these people have as Large a portion of 
mother witt, and sometimes a Larger, than those who have bin brought 
up in Citties; But for want of emprovements, Render themselves almost 
Ridiculos, as above. I should be glad if they would leave such follies, and 
am. sure all that Love Clean Houses (at least) would be glad on’t too. 

They are generaly very plain in their dress, throuout all ye Colony, 
as I saw, and follow one another in their modes; that You may know 
where they belong, especially the women, meet them where you will. 

Their Cheif Red Letter day is St. Election,!® w% is annualy Observed 
according to Charter, to choose their Govenr: a blessing they can never 
be thankfull enough for, as they will find, if ever it be their hard fortune 
to loose it. The present Govenor in Conecticott is the Hon!e John 
Winthrop Esq.!7 A Gentleman of an Ancient and Honourable Family, 
whose Father was Govenor here sometime before, and his Grand 
father had bin Gov? of the Massachusetts. This gentleman is a very 
curteous and afable person, much.Given to Hospitality, and has by 
his Good services Gain’d the affections of the people as much as any 
who had bin before him in that post. 

Dect 6th. Being by this time well Recruited and rested after my 
Journy, my business lying unfinished by some concerns at New York 
depending thereupon, my Kinsman, Mr. Thomas ‘Trowbridge of New 
Haven, must needs take a Journy there before it could be accomplished, 
I resolved to go there in company wt» him, and a man of the town w® 
I engaged to wait on me there. Accordingly, Dec. 6* we set out from 
New Haven, and about 11 same morning came to Stratford ferry; 
w* crossing, about two miles on the other side Baited our horses and 
would have eat a morsell ourselves, But the Pumpkin and Indian mixt 
Bred had such an Aspect, and the Bare-legg’d Punch so awkerd or 
rather Awfull a sound, that we left both, and proceeded forward, and 
about seven at night come to Fairfield, where we met with good enter- 
tainment and Lodg’d; and early next morning set forward to Noro- 
walk, from its halfe Indian name WNorth-walk, when about 12 at noon 
we arrived, and Had a Dinner of Fryed Venison, very savoury. Land- 
lady wanting some pepper in the seasoning, bid the Girl hand her the 
spice in the little Gay cupp on y° shelfe. From hence we Hasted towards 
Rye, walking and Leading our Horses neer a mile together, up a 
prodigios high Hill; and so Riding till about nine at night, and there 
arrived and took up our Lodgings at an ordinary, w® a French family 
kept. Here being very hungry, I desired a fricasee, we the Frenchman 
undertakeing, mannaged so contrary to my notion of Cookery, that 


440 The Puritans 


I hastned to Bed superless; And being shewd the way up a pair of stairs 
we) had such a narrow passage that I had almost stopt by the Bulk of 
my Body; But arriving at my apartment found it to be a little Lento 
Chamber furnisht amongst other Rubbish with a High Bedd and a 
Low one, a Long Table, a Bench and a Bottomless chair,—Little Miss 
went to scratch up my Kennell w% Russelled as if shee’d bin in the Barn 
amongst the Husks, and supose such was the contents of the tickin— 
nevertheless being exceeding weary, down I laid my poor Carkes (never 
more tired) and found my Covering as scanty as my Bed was hard. — 
Annon I heard another Russelling noise in Ye Room—called to know 
the matter—Little miss said shee was making a bed for the men; 
who, when they were in Bed, complained their leggs lay out of it by 
reason of its shortness—my poor bones complained bitterly not being 
used to such Lodgings, and so did the man who was with us; and poor 
I made but one Grone, which was from the time I went to bed to the 
time I Riss, which was about three in the morning, Setting up by the 
Fire till Light, and having discharged our ordinary 1® wet was as dear 
as if we had had far Better fare—wee took our leave of Monsier and 
about seven in the morn come to New Rochell a french town, where we 
had a good Breakfast. And in the strength of that about an how’r be- 
fore sunsett got to York. Here I applyd myself to Mr. Burroughs, a 
merchant to whom I was recommended by my Kinsman Capt. Prout, 
and received great Civilities from him and his spouse, who were now 
both Deaf but very agreeable in their Conversation, Diverting me with 
pleasant stories of their knowledge in Brittan from whence they both 
come, one of which was above the rest very pleasant to me viz. my 
Lord Darcy had a very extravagant Brother who had mortgaged what 
Estate hee could not sell, and in good time dyed leaving only one son. 
Him his Lordship (having none of his own) took and made him Heir 
of his whole Estate, which he was to receive at the death of his Aunt. 
He and his Aunt in her widowhood held a right understanding and 
lived as become such Relations, shee being a discreat Gentlewoman and 
he an Ingenios Young man. One day Hee fell into some Company 
though far his inferiors, very freely told him of the Ill circumstances 
his fathers Estate lay under, and the many Debts he left unpaid to the 
wrong of poor people with whom he had dealt. ‘The Young gentleman 
was put out of countenance—no way hee could think of to Redress 
himself—his whole dependance being on the Lady his Aunt, and how 
to speak to her he knew not—Hee went home, sat down to dinner and 
as usual sometimes with her when the Chaplain was absent, she desired 
him to say Grace, w% he did after this manner: 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 441 


Pray God in Mercy take my Lady Darcy 
Unto his Heavenly Throne, 

That little John may live like a man, 
And pay every man his own. 


The prudent Lady took no present notice, But finishd dinner, after 
w*) having sat and talk’t awhile (as Customary) He Riss, took his Hatt 
and Going out she desired him to give her leave to speak to him in her 
Clossett, Where being come she desired to know why hee prayed for 
her Death in the manner aforesaid, and what part of her deportment 
towards him merritted such desires. Hee Reply’d, none at all, But he 
was under such disadvantages that nothing but that could do him 
service, and told her how he had been affronted as above, and what 
Impressions it had made upon him. The Lady made him a gentle 
reprimand that he had not informed her after another manner, Bid 
him see what his father owed and he should have money to pay it to 
a penny, And always to lett her know his wants and he should have a 
redy supply. The Young Gentleman charm’d with his Aunts Discrete 
management, Beggd her pardon and accepted her kind offer and re- 
trieved his fathers Estate, &c. and said Hee hoped his Aunt would 
never dye, for shee had done better by him than hee could have done 
for himself.—Mr. Burroughs went with me to Vendue !° where I bought 
about 100 Rheem of paper w*! was retaken in a flyboat from Holland 
and sold very Reasonably here—some ten, some Eight shillings per 
Rheem by the Lott wet was ten Rheem in a Lott. And at the Vendue 
I made a great many acquaintances amongst the good women of the 
town, who curteosly invited me to their houses and generously enter- 
tained me. 

The Cittie of New York is a pleasant, well compacted place, situated 
on a Commodius River w* is a fine harbour for shipping. The Buildings 
Brick Generaly, very stately and high, though not altogether like ours 
in Boston. The Bricks,in some of the Houses are of divers Coullers and 
laid in Checkers, being glazed look very agreeable. The inside of them 
are neat to admiration, the wooden work, for only the walls are plas- 
terd, and the Sumers and Gist #° are plained and kept very white 
scowr’d as so is all the partitions if made of Bords. The fire places have 
no Jambs (as ours have) But the Backs run flush with the walls, and the 
Hearth is of Tyles and is as farr out into the Room at the Ends as before 
the fire, we is Generally Five foot in the Low’r rooms, and the peice 
over where the mantle tree should be is made as ours with Joyners 
work, and as I supose is fasten’d to iron rodds inside. The House where 
the Vendue was, had Chimney Corners like ours, and they and the 


442 The Puritans 


hearths were laid wt» the finest tile that I ever see, and the stair cases 
laid all with white tile which is ever clean, and so are the walls of the 
Kitchen we had a Brick floor. They were making Great preparations 
to Receive their Govenor, Lord Cornbury # from the Jerseys, and for 
that End raised the militia to Gard him on shore to the fort. 

They are Generaly of the Church of England and have a New Eng- 
land Gentleman for their minister, and a very, fine church set out with 
all Customary requsites. There are also a Dutch and Divers Conven- 


ticles as they call them, viz. Baptist, Quakers, &c. They are not strict — 


in keeping the Sabbath as in Boston and other places where I had 
bin, But seem to deal with great exactness as farr as I see or Deall with. 
They are sociable to one another and Curteos and Civill to strangers 
and fare well in their houses. The English go very fasheonable in their 
dress. Dut the Dutch, especially the middling sort, differ from our 
women, in their habitt go loose, were French muches w* are like a 
Capp and a head band in one, leaving their ears bare, which are sett 
out wt Jewells of a large size and many in number. And their fingers 
hoop’t with Rings, some with large stones in them of many Coullers 
as were their pendants in their ears, which You should see very old 
women wear as well as Young. 

They have Vendues very frequently and make their Earnings very 
well by them, for they treat with good Liquor Liberally, and the Cus- 
tomers Drink as Liberally and Generally pay for’t as well, by paying 
for that which they Bidd up Briskly for, after the sack has gone plenti- 
fully about, tho’ sometimes good penny worths are got there. Their 
Diversions in the Winter is Riding Sleys about three or four Miles out 
of Town, where they have Houses of entertainment at a place called 
the Bowery, and some go to friends Houses who handsomely treat them. 
Mr. Burroughs cary’d his spouse and Daughter and myself out to one 
Madame Dowes, a Gentlewoman that lived at a farm House, who 
gave us a handsome Entertainment of five or six Dishes and choice 
Beer and metheglin,?? Cyder, &c. all which she said was the produce 
of her farm. I believe we mett 50 or 60 slays that day—they fly with 
great swiftness and some are so furious that they’le turn out of the path 
for none except a Loaden Cart. Nor do they spare for any diversion the 
place affords, and sociable to a degree, they’r Tables being as free to 
their Naybours as to themselves. 

Having here transacted the affair I went upon and some other that 
fell in the way, after about a fortnight’s stay there I left New-York 
with no Little regrett, and Thursday, Dec. 21, set out for New Haven 
wth my Kinsman Trowbridge, and the man that waited on me about 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 443, 


one afternoon, and about three come to half-way house about ten miles 
out of town, where we Baited and went forward, and about 5 come to 
Spiting Devil, Else Kings bridge,*? where they pay three pence for 
passing over with a horse, which the man that keeps the Gate set up 
at the end of the Bridge receives. 

We hoped to reach the french town and Lodg there that night, but 
unhapily lost our way about four miles short, and being overtaken by 
a great storm of wind and snow which set full in our faces about dark, 
we were very uneasy. But meeting one Gardner who lived in a Cottage 
thereabout, offered us his fire to set by, having but one poor Bedd, and 
his wife not well, &c. or he would go to a House with us, where he 
thought we might be better accommodated—thither we went, But a 
surly old shee Creature, not worthy the name of woman, who would 
hardly let us go into her Door, though the weather was so stormy none 
but shee would have turnd out a Dogg. But her son whose name was 
gallop, who lived Just by Invited us to his house and shewed me two 
pair of stairs, viz. one up the loft and tother up the Bedd, w*" was as 
hard as it was high, and warmed it with a hott stone at the feet. I lay 
very uncomfortably, insomuch that I was so very cold and sick I was 
forced to call them up to give me something to warm me. They had 
nothing but milk in the house, w® they Boild, and to make it better 
sweetened wt» molasses, which I not knowing or thinking oft till it 
was down and coming up agen w® it did in so plentifull a manner that 
my host was soon paid double for his portion, and that in specia. 
But I believe it did me service in Cleering my stomach. So after this 
sick and weary night at East Chester, (a very miserable poor place,) 
the weather being now fair, Friday the 224 Dec. we set out for New 
Rochell, where being come we had good Entertainment and Recruited 
ourselves very well. ‘This is a very pretty place well compact, and good 
handsome houses, Clean, good and passable Rodes, and situated on a 
Navigable River, abundance of land well fined and Cleerd all along 
as wee passed, which caused in me a Love to the place, w I could 
have been content to live in it. Here wee Ridd over a Bridge made of 
one entire stone of such a Breadth that a cart might pass with safety, 
and to spare—it lay over a passage cutt through a Rock to convey 
water to a mill not farr off. Here are three fine Taverns within call of 
each other, very good provision for ‘Travailers. 

Thence we travailed through Merrinak, a neet, though little place, 
wth a navigable River before it, one of the pleasantest I ever see—Here 
were good Buildings, Especialy one, a very fine seat, we they told me 
was Col. Hethcoats, who I had heard was a very fine Gentleman. 


444 The Puritans 


From hence we come to Hors Neck, where wee Baited, and they told 
me that one Church of England parson officiated in all these three 
towns once every Sunday in turns throughout the Year; and that they 
all could but poorly maintaine him, which they grudg’d to do, being 
a poor and quarelsome crew as I understand by our Host; their Quarel- 
ling about their choice of Minister, they chose to have none—But 
caused the Government to send this Gentleman to them. Here wee 
took leave of York Government, and Descending the Mountainos pas- 
sage that almost broke my heart in ascending before, we come to 
Stamford, a well compact Town, but miserable meeting house, we 
we passed, and thro’ many and great difficulties, as Bridges which were 
exceeding high and very tottering and of vast Length, steep and Rocky 
Hills and precipices, (Buggbears to a fearful female travailer.) About 
nine at night we come to Norrwalk, having crept over a timber of a 
Broken Bridge about thirty foot long, and perhaps fifty to ye water. I 
was exceeding tired and cold when we come to our Inn, and could 
get nothing there but poor entertainment, and the impertinant Bable 
of one of the worst of men, among many others of which our Host 
made one, who, had he bin one degree Impudenter, would have out- 
done his Grandfather. And this I think is the most perplexed night I 
_ have yet had. From hence, Saturday, Dec. 23, a very cold and windy 
day, after an Intolerable night’s Lodging, wee hasted forward only 
observing in our way the Town to be situated on a Navigable river 
wth indiferent Buildings and people more refind than in some of the 
Country towns wee had passed, tho’ vicious enough, the Church and 
Tavern being next neighbours. Having Ridd thro a difficult River wee 
come to Fairfield where wee Baited and were much refreshed as well 
with the Good things w* gratified our appetites as the time took to 
rest our wearied Limbs, we Latter I employed in enquiring concerning 
the Town and manners of the people, &c. This is a considerable town, 
and filled as they say with wealthy people—have a spacious meeting 
house and good Buildings. But the Inhabitants are Litigious, nor do 
they well agree with their minister, who (they say) is a very worthy 
Gentleman.” 

They have aboundance of sheep, whose very Dung brings them great 
gain, with part of which they pay their Parsons sallery, And they Grudg 
that, :prefering their Dung before their minister. They Lett out their 
sheep at so much as they agree upon for a night; the highest Bidder 
always caries them, And they will sufficiently Dung a Large quantity 
of Land before morning. But were once Bitt by a sharper who had them 
a night and sheared them all before morning—From hence we went 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior AAS 


to Stratford, the next Town, in which I observed but few houses, and 
those not very good ones. But the people that I conversed with were 
civill and good natured. Here we staid till late at night, being to cross 
a Dangerous River ferry, the River at that time full of Ice; but after 
about four hours waiting with great difficulty wee got over. My fears 
and fatigues prevented my here taking any particular observation. 
Being got to Milford, it being late in the night, I could go no further; 
my fellow travailer going forward, I was invited to Lodg at Mrs. : 
a very kind and civill Gentlewoman, by whom I was handsomely and 
kindly entertained till the next night. The people here go very plain 
in their apparel (more plain than I had observed in the towns I had 
passed) and seem to be very grave and serious. ‘They told me there 
was a singing Quaker lived there, or at least had a strong inclination 
to be so, His Spouse not at all affected that way. Some of the singing 
Crew come there one day to visit him, who being then abroad, they 
sat down (to the woman’s no small vexation) Humming and singing 
and groneing after their conjuring way—Says the woman are you sing- 
ing quakers? Yea says They—Then take my squalling Brat of a child 
here and sing to it says she for I have almost split my throat wt» singing 
to him and cant get the Rogue to sleep. They took this as a great In- 
dignity, and mediately departed. Shaking the dust from their Heels 
left the good woman and her Child among the number of the wicked. 

This is a Seaport place and accomodated with a Good Harbour, But 
I had not opportunity to make particular observations because it was 
Sabbath day—This Evening. 

December 24. I set out with the Gentlewomans son who she very 
civilly offered to go with me when she see no parswasions would cause 
me to stay which she pressingly desired, and crossing a ferry having 
but nine miles to New Haven, in a short time arrived there and was 
Kindly received and well accommodated amongst my Friends and 
Relations. 

The Government of Connecticut Collony begins westward towards 
York at Stanford (as I am told) and so runs Eastward towards Boston 
(I mean in my range, because I dont intend to extend my description 
beyond my own travails) and ends that way at Stonington—And has 
a great many Large towns lying more northerly. It is a plentiful Coun- 
try for provisions of all sorts and its Generally Healthy. No one that 
can and will be dilligent in this place need fear poverty nor the want 
of food and Rayment. 

January 6. Being now well Recruited and fitt for business I dis- 
coursed the persons I was concerned with, that we might finnish in 


446 The Puritans 


order to my return to Boston. They delay? as they had hitherto done 
hoping to tire my Patience. But I was resolute to stay and see an End 
of the matter let it be never so much to my disadvantage—So January 
gth they come again and promise the Wednesday following to go 
through with the distribution of the Estate which they delayed till 
Thursday and then come with new amusements. But at length by the 
mediation of that holy good Gentleman, the Rev. Mr. James Pierpont,?5 
the minister of New Haven, and with the advice and assistance of other 
our Good friends we come to an accommodation and distribution, 
which having finished though not till February, the man that waited 
on me to York taking the charge of me I sit out for Boston. We went 
from New Haven upon the ice (the ferry being not passable thereby) 
and the Rev. Mr. Pierpont wt Madam Prout Cuzin Trowbridge and 
divers others were taking leave wee went onward without any thing 
Remarkabl till wee come to New London and Lodged again at Mr. 
Saltonstalls—and here I dismist my Guide, and my Generos enter- 
tainer provided me Mr. Samuel Rogers of that place to go home with 
me—I stayed a day here Longer than I intended by the Commands 
of the Hon?!le Govenor Winthrop to stay and take’'a supper with him 
whose wonderful civility I may not omitt. The next morning I Crossed 
y® Ferry to Groton, having had the Honor of the Company, of Madam 
Livingston (who is the Govenors Daughter) and Mary Christophers and 
divers others to the boat—And that night Lodg? at Stonington and had 
Rost Beef and pumpkin sause for supper. The next night at Haven’s 
and had Rost fowle, and the next day wee come to a river which by 
Reason of Ye Freshetts coming down was swell’4 so high wee fear 
it impassable and the rapid stream was very terryfying—However we 
must over and that in a small Cannoo. Mr. Rogers assuring me of his 
good Conduct, I after a stay of near an how’r on the shore for consulta- 
tion went into the Cannoo, and Mr. Rogers paddled about 100 yards 
up the Creek by the shore side, turned into the swift stream and dexter- 
ously steering her in a moment wee come to the other side as swiftly 
passing as an arrow shott out of the Bow by a strong arm. I staid on 
y° shore till Hee returned to fetch our horses, which he caused to 
swim over himself bringing the furniture in the Cannoo. But it is past 
my skill to express the Exceeding fright all their transactions formed 
in me. Wee were now in the colony of the Massachusetts and taking 
Lodgings at the first Inn we come too had a pretty difficult passage the 
next day which was the second of March by reason of the sloughy ways 
then thawed by the Sunn. Here I mett Capt. John Richards of Boston 
who was going home, So being very glad of his Company we Rode 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior AAT 


something harder than hitherto, and missing my way in going up a 
very steep Hill, my horse dropt down under me as Dead; this new 
surprize no little hurt me meeting it Just at the Entrance into Dedham 
from whence we intended to reach home that night. But was now 
obliged to gett another Hors there and leave my own, resolving for 
Boston that night if possible. But in going over the Causeway at Ded- 
ham the Bridge being overflowed by the high waters comming down I 
very narrowly escaped falling over into the river Hors and all we 
twas almost a miracle I did not—now it grew late in the afternoon and 
the people having very much discouraged us about the sloughy way 
w* they said wee should find very difficult and hazardous it so wrought 
on mee being tired and dispirited and disapointed of my desires of 
going home that I agreed to Lodg there that night w* wee did at the 
house of one Draper, and the next day being March 3d wee got safe 
home to Boston, where I found my aged and tender mother and my 
Dear and only Child in good health with open arms redy to receive 
me, and my Kind relations and friends flocking in to welcome mee 
and hear the story of my transactions and travails I having this day 
bin five months from home and now I cannot fully express my Joy 
and Satisfaction. But desire sincearly to adore my Great Benefactor 
for thus graciously carying forth and returning in safety his unworthy 
handmaid. 


JOSEPH GREEN, 1675-1715 


[After graduation from:college in 1695, Joseph Green, the son of a 
Cambridge tailor, experienced a religious conversion while teaching 
school at Roxbury. Thereupon he returned to college, secured his 
Master’s degree, and was settled as pastor at Salem Village (Danvers) 
in 1698. He did great service restoring calm after the witchcraft panic, 
and fostered education in the somewhat backward town. His “Diary,” 
kept intermittently from March 4, 1700, to June 18, 1715—five months 
before his death—is largely a record of the domestic contentment of 
a country parson who loved gardening, fishing, hunting, and dis- 
pensing quiet hospitality. His account of the aurora borealis on Decem- 
ber 18, 1700, is probably the earliest notice of the phenomenon in 
New England. 

See Samuel P. Fowler, “Biographical Sketch and Diary of Rev. 
Joseph Green, of Salem Village,” Essex Institute. Historical Collections, 
WETT (1568). 91-96, 165-174, 215-9945. X (1866), pte bo ye— 104 
XXXVI (1900), 325-330. The text is from idem, X, 86-89. See Sib- 
ley, Biographical Sketches, IV, 228-233.] 


448 _ The Puritans 


EXTRACTS FROM GREEN’S “DIARY.” 


M*. 19, 1710] I went down to ye mouth of ye harbour and lay in 
ye boat at an anchor. 

May 20. I rowed over ye Sound and got on to Mr. Gardner’s Island.1 
Ye Indian’s carried me over and set me on shore at Fire Place. At 
sunset I travelled eight miles to E. H.? 

21. Sab. I preached at East Hampton in forenoon, from Luke Wi12, 
and P.M., Luke 10, 41. I was very faint with my travelling. 

22. I visited ye people and found them very kind. 

24. I visited Mr. White ? at Sag [Harbor] and Mr. Whiting‘ at 
S. Hampton. 

25. I prepared to come home. 

26. After 2 o’clock I came with my mother, first to Mr. Gardner’s 
Island, and then in a whale boat; about sun one hour and one half 
high. I arrived safe at New London about 11 o’clock at night. We 
lodged at Mr. Coits.° 

27. We travelled heavy laden to Major Fitches at Canter. 

28. Sab. I preached, P.M., at Canterbury. 

29. My horse ran away, which hindered us two hours. Mr. Easton 
came eight miles and brought my mother; we travelled to Providence. 

30. I hired men to bring my mother. 30 inst. we came to brother 
Jonathan’s. 

31. I came home and found all well and have had much experience 
_ of God’s goodness to me abroad and to mine at home. 

June 8. I went with my wife to Wenham on J. Gansons horse. 

18. Sab. Mr. Blowers © was ill, and sent me word he could not 
exchange as he expected. | 

July 5. Dined at Zach. Hicks and went to Boston in Calash to brother 
S,) Green's. 

6. Bought a brass kettle, 3£. 6 shil. 6 d.; and went to Cambridge 
and brought my mother home with me at 6 o’clock. 

g. Went to Wenham; ye most plentiful rain we have had these three 
summers. | 

10. I came home; training, half ye company pricked. 

28. I tried first to catch pigeons. 

Aug. 2. I got two dozen of pigeons. Mr. Blowers here. 

7. Rain. Nine men ’listed for Port Royal. 

8. Catched pigeons. 

10. Pubb. thanksgiving, especially for rain. 

16. Rain. Catched eight dozen and one half-pigeons. 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 449 


28. Catched eight dozen pigeons. 

Sept. 1. Catched six dozen pigeons. 

Sept. 4. I went to Boston to visit Br. Sam. Gerrish 7 sick. He was 
very bad at night. Saw old Mr. Mather.® Visited Mr. Wadsworth.° 

Sept. 6. I carried my mother to Salem Lecture, dined with Maj. 
Sewell. 

18. Our fleet of 36 sail set out for Port Royall. 

28. Pubb. Fast for ye fleet against P. Royall. 

Oct. 3. I went to Wenham at ye ministers meeting, and then met 
Mr. Rogers !° of Ipswich and Mr. Blowers. We had deacon Fitches 
case. 

4. I went to Wenham with my wife. Mr. Noyes # and I wrote over 
ye ministers determination. Boiled Syder. 

22. Sab. News from Port Royall; rain A.M. 

Nov. 6. Preparing for winter. Ben. H [utchinson] in my orchard. 

7. Storm at night. Capt. Eastes’ brother here. I went to Benj. H. 
and prayed him to keep his horses out of my orchard. He told me if 
my feed was not eaten quickly ye snow would cover it, &c. 

8. B. Hu. horses in every night this week. | 

Nov. 11. I at study. Sent for Benj. H. and prayed him to mend up 
his fence, which he did and kept them out this one night. 

Nov. 17. Benj. H. three jades having been here in my orchard every 
night this week, had got such a hank [ering] that they would not easily 
be drove out, so that J. H. tried last night at 9 o’clock to get them out 
till he was cold and tired, and forced to leave them in. And as we wer 
trying to get them out this morning, the two jades trying to jump out 
at once by ye well, one pressed another so as he jumped into my well, 
and altho. we got him out with Mr. Hutchinson’s help, yet he soon 
dyed. Snow. 

18. Snow. I went to Mr. H. he said I might pay for one-half of his 
colt, and that he could by the law force me to pay all. I told him I 
was no ways to blame about his colt being killed; but I looked it as 
a Providential rebuke unto him for suffering his jades to afflict me. I 
told him he only was to blame, because I had spake and sent to him 
ten times to look to his horses. He told me no body desired him to 
fetter his horses in the winter, and that folks fields was mostly common. 

25. I went to Mrs. Walcuts and urged her to pole her wall. 

27. I told Benj. Hutch. I would give his boys 20 shil. for his colt 
that fell into my well, and also ye damage his horses had done me this 
month, which I valued 20 shil. more. And he said that would satisfy 
him and all his family. I told him I gave it to him to make him easy and 


450 The Puritans 


if that end was not obtained, I should account my money thrown away. 
For I knew no law did oblige me to pay for his colt, that came over a 
lawful fence into my well. 

Dec. 5. I had ground ploughed. Killed four hogs, in all 350 pounds. 

23. I at study; not well. Clear and cold. 

28. Killed three hogs 316 pounds, so that we have this year killed 
666 pounds of pork. 

1711. Jan. 2. Boys cyphering at home. 

22. I was called up at 4 o’clock to pray with Benj. Hutchinson’s © 
child; it died at 6 o’clock. 

26. Killed a calf; sent John Hicks to Salem with 21 3-4 Ibs. to 
Mr. Kitchen. He bought ginger, starch, molasses and wine. 

Feb. 23. Cold. I wrote deeds for J. Ross. Brewed. 

25. Sab. Snowed hard all day; a thin assembly. 

March 1. Cold. Ye church kept a Fast at ye house of Dea. Benj. 
Putnam’s, to pray for ye pouring out of ye spirit on us, &c. a g. d.; 
my wife ill. 

4. Sab. 100 communicants. 

14. I went to Salem, paid 24 shil. to Mr. Noyes. Bought a hat for 
Nedd at Mr. K’s. 

19. I bought-3 acres of woodland of Benj. Hutchinson for 15f. 
I paid him 5£. and gave him a bond for 1of., to be paid in paper or 
silver, ‘Aprilitos 1712. 

27. Meeting of ye Inhabitants about covering ye house &c. I had 
three men making wall. 


COTTON MATHER 


[It was customary for the congregations in New England churches 
to use metrical versions of the Psalms during the service, alternately 
singing and reading line by line. But the congregations knew hardly 
ten tunes by ear, and few could sing words to more than five. During the 
first quarter of the eighteenth century discontent arose over the man- 
ner of singing, some of the more fastidious claiming that without the 
aid of musical notations the zeal of the worshippers often betrayed 
them into sounds ‘‘which made a Jar in the ears’ (letter of Cotton 
Mather, Collection of the Massachusetts Historical Society, seventh series, 
VIII, 693). Several entered into the controversy whether singing by 
note, that is, ‘“Regular Singing,’’ should not supplant the old method 
of singing by ear. 

Cotton Mather was among the first to champion the newer way, . 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 451 


with a tract published in Boston in 1721 called The Accomplished Singer. 
Instructions . . . How the Melody of Regular Singing, and the Skill of doing it, 
according to the Rules of it, may be easily arrived unto. As most ministers 
heartily favored “‘Regular Singing,” doubtless the older psalmodies 
lacking notations were less and less used thenceforth. 

See Matt B. Jones, ‘“Some Bibliographical Notes on Cotton Mather’s 
“The Accomplished Singer,’”’ Publications of the Colonial Society of Massa- 
chusetis, XXVIII (1935), 186-193.] 


THE ACCOMPLISHED SINGER. 


§ 1. It is the Concern of every one that would enjoy Tranquillity in 
this World, or obtain Felicity in the World to come, to follow that Holy 
Direction of Heaven, Exercise thy self in Piety. And there is no Exercise 
of Prery more unexceptionable than that of making a Joyful Noise of 
SINGING in the Praises of our Gop; That of signifying our Delight in 
Divine Truths by Sincinc of them; That of Uitering the Sentiments of 
Devotion, with the Voice, and such a Modulation of the Voice, as will 
naturally express the Satisfaction and Elevation of the Mind, which a 
Grave Sone shall be expressive of. Tis indeed a very Ancient Way of 
Glorifying the Blessed Gop; As Ancient as the Day when the Foundations 
of the Earth were fastened, and the Corner-Stone thereof was laid. The Morning- 
Stars then Sang together. And it is as Extensive an one; For it is Remark- 
able, That All Nations make SincinG to be one part of the Worship 
which they pay unto their Gop. Those Few Untuned Souls, who affect 
upon Principle to distinguish themselves from the rest of Mankind 
by the Character of Non-Singers, do seem too much to divest themselves 
of an Humanity, whereof it may be said unto them, Doth not Nature it self 
teach it you? Be sure, they sufficiently differ from the Primitive Christians; 
For, though the Eastern Churches were at first Superiour to the Western, 
for the Zeal of the House of Gop in this matter, yet both betimes Con- 
curr’d in it. Not only Justin the Martyr, and Clemens of Alexandria, as 
well as Tertullian, and several others of the Primitive Writers, but also 
Governour Pliny himself will tell us, what Szngers to their Gop, the Faith- 
ful were then known to be; and how much they Worshipped Him in 
these Beauties of Holiness. 

§2. Bur this piece of Natural Worship is further Confirmed by a 
positive Institution of Gop our Saviour for it. The Sacred Scriptures with 
which the Holy Spirir of Gop has Enriched us, have directed us unto 
this Way of Worshipping. In our Old Testament we there find it as a 
Command of Gop; but Calculated particularly for Times under the 


452 The Puritans 


New-Testament: Psal. LXVIII. 32. Sing Praises unto Gop, ye Kingdoms 
of the Earth, O Sing Praises unto the Lord. And Psal. C. 1, 2. Make a Foyful 
Noise unto the Lord, All ye Lands; Come into his Presence with Singing. The 
Ninety-fifth Psalm in our Psalter, does according to the Interpretation 
of our Apostle Paul, an Interpreter, One of a Thousand, certainly to be 
relied upon! Prescribe the Duties of a Sabbath in the Days of the 
Gospel. But what is the First of those Duties? O come, Let us sing unto 
the Lord, Let us with Psalms make a Joyful Noise unto Him. In our New- 
Testament it self ’tis a Thing so positively enjoined, that it must be a 
wonder, if any Christian can make any Question of it. How plainly is 
it commanded? Jam. V. 13. Is any cheerful among you, Let him sing Psalms. 
Yea, In the Pauline Epistles, we have it; how frequently, how earnestly 
inculcated! This Exercise is none of those Intrusions into our Worship, 
which the Worshippers in the Inner-Court, wou’d see a Quo Warranto 
serv'd upon, *Tis Warranted with a most Incontestible Institution. . . . 

It would follow from hence, that such a Version of the PsALms, as 
keeps most Close to the Original, were most of all to be wished for. Of 
about Three Times seven Translations of the Psalms, which we have 
seen fitted for the Tunes of our Sacred Songs there is not one, but what 
for the sake of a needless Rhyme, does Leave out very much of what the 
Holy Sprrir has inserted in the Original, and put in as much of what is 
not there to be met withal. Of these Translations, there are some Nearer 
to the Original than others, and have more of That in it, with least of 
Diversion from it, or Addition to it: And the Nearest are certainly the 
most worthy to have our Meditations employed upon them. After all, 
of what Consequence is (the Similis Desimentia of) Rhyme, to our Psalmody, 
when even to Poetry it self, it is not Essential? The Psalms might easily 
be so turned into Blank Verse, that there should be ALL, and ONLy, 
what it has pleased the Holy One to give us in the Original. And no 
doubt there will a Time come, when Myriads of Christians will chuse 
to Serve Gop with such a Pure Offering, and present unto Him what is 
purely His own, rather than have their Devotions in Danger of being 
palled, by the sense of Humane Debasements, upon what they Address 
unto Him. An Honourable Counsellor in the Low-Countries, Mynheer 
Bruyne, published in Dutch, the Psatms in such Blank Verse. But because 
his Translation differed, as it must, from what was in the Common 
Bible, another who was a Master of Musick, fitted a variety of Tunes 
to the Psalter, without changing a word in the Common Bible. However 
the Tunes were so various, and the necessary Repetition of the same 
Word so frequent, that this did not much mend the matter... . 

The Skill of Regular Singing, is among the Gifts of Gop unto the Chil- 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 453 


dren of Men, and by no means unthankfully to be Neglected or De- 
spised. For the Congregations, wherein ’tis wanting, to recover a 
Regular Singing, would be really a Reformation, and a Recovery out of 
an Apostacy, and what we may judge that Heaven would be pleased 
withal. We ought certainly to Serve our Gop with our Best, and Regular 
Singing must needs be Better than the confused Noise of a Wilderness. 
Gop is not for Confusion in the Churches of the Saints; but requires, Let all 
things be done decently. "Tis a Great Mistake of some weak People, That 
the Times regulated with the Notes used in the Regular Singing of our 
Churches are the same that are used in the Church of Rome. And 
what if they were? Our Psalms too are used there. But the Tunes used 
in the French Psalmody, and from ‘Them in the Dutch also, were set by 
a famous Martyr of Jesus Curist; And when Sternhold and Hopkins } 
illuminated England, with their Version of the Psalms, the Tunes have 
been set by such as a Good Protestant may be willing to hold Commu- 
nion withal. The Tunes commonly used in our Churches, are Few; 
T’were well if there were more. But they are also Grave, and such as 
well become the Oracles of GoD, and such as do Steer clear of the Two 
Shelves, which Austin was afraid of; when he did, Jn cantu Sacro fluctuare, 
inter Periculum Voluptatis, et Experimentum Salubritatis; in danger of too 
much Delicacy on the one side, and Asperity on the other. 

THE Musick of the Ancient Hebrews, an Adjustment whereto seems 
to be all the Measure of their Poetry, (after all the Attempts of Gomarus, 
and other Learned Men otherwise to Measure it,) being utterly Lost; 
and as Aben-Ezra* observes, of the Musical Instruments in the Hundred 
and Fiftieth Psalm, wholly Irrecoverable; we have no way Left us now, 


but with Tunes composed by the Chief Musicians for us, to do as well as 
we can. 


SOLOMON STODDARD, 1643-1729 


[It was expected of ministers, to the extent they were dialecticians 
and arbiters of public morals, that they should decide questions of 
behavior as well as polity. The ministers certainly never shirked such 
responsibility. When custom or logic failed, there remained the firm 
rock of the Bible from which to cite precedent, and thus, it was hoped, 
end counter-argument. A tract written by Solomon Stoddard was pub- 
lished in 1722, on matters of morals, called An Answer to Some Cases 
of Conscience Respecting the Country. Stoddard, the grandfather of Jonathan 
Edwards, had been pastor of the Northampton church since 1672, 
and was a man held in great esteem. 


AGA) | The Puritans 


The fashion of wearing long hair, attacked by the General Court 
and by ministers during the mid-seventeenth century, had fallen into 
disfavor later in the century when periwigs came into style. The 
General Court condemned periwigs in 1675. But as time passed, such 
questions of minor morals agitated the country less and less. By 1710, 
though the laws forbidding long hair and periwigs continued on the 
statutes, enforcement was negligible. , 

On Stoddard, see Sibley, Biographical Sketches, II, 111-122. The text 
is from An Answer, etc., pp. 4-7, 12, 13.] “ 


AN ANSWER TO SOME CASES OF CONSCIENCE 
Q. IV. Is rr LawFuLt TO WEAR LONG Harr? 


nsw. It was the Custom in England to cut their Hair all off, in 
A imitation of King Henry the Eighth, who out of an humour, as 
Dr. Fuller 1 says, cut off his Hair. This custom continued for about three- 
score years: but by degrees, Men took a greater liberty; tho some Men 
placed Religion in it: yet in length of time, they were not so scrupulous 
as formerly. And some wore their Hair very long. And many of those 
that wear Periwigs, use such as are of a very great length. And the 
custom doth now prevail among Pious People. But it seems utterly 
Unlawful to wear their Hair long; It is a great Burden and Cumber; 
it is Effiminacy, and a vast Expence. 

One Scripture that condemns it, 1 Cor. 11. 14. Doth not even nature 
at self teach you, that uf a man wear long hair, 1t 1s a shame to him? That which 
the light of Nature condemns, is a Moral Evil. The light of Nature is 
to be our Rule in ordinary cases. The reason why it is a shame to 
wear long Hair is, because it is a Sin: the light of Nature doth condemn 
it; therefore it is sinfull. 

The principal Objection that is brought to evade the Authority of 
this Place, is, That by Nature, Custom is meant. So Dr. Hammond ” 
expounds it: I judge he doth it, that he may strengthen himself in his 
Arminianism, that he may have the better pretence to expound it so, 
Eph. 2. 3. where it is said, We are by nature children of wrath, even as others. 
His Exposition there is contrary to the Rule of Faith; and in this Place, 
contrary to the Rule of Life. We sometimes say that Custom is a second 
nature: yet it is never so used in the Scripture: the Interpretation is 
without Precedent: and the Apostle being presently after to speak of 
Custom, useth another word: 1 Cor. 11. 16. He saith, We have no such 
Custom. The Apostles Expression is very remarkable, He saith, even 
_ Nature it self, as if he had foreseen that Men would put a false interpre- 


Manners, Customs, and Behavior 455 


tation on his words. He doth not content himself to say, Nature; but 
that they may not suppose he meant Custom. He saith, Even Nature it 
self. Undoubtedly he was guided therein by the Spirit of Gop. Besides, 
it was not true, that Custom taught them that it was a shame for a 
Man to wear long Hair: for it was the Custom of the Greeks to wear 
their Hair long: The Romans wore their Hair short; but the Greeks wore 
their Hair long. Homer calls the Grecians Comat: Achivi.3 And when 
Alexander was in a rage with Cassander one of his Nobles; he took him 
by the Hair, and knocked his head against the wall. Moreover in the 
next verse, 1 Cor. 11. 13. The Apostle to shew, that Nature teaches 
Women to wear their Hair long; He saith, [f a woman have long hair, it 1s 
a glory to her; for her hatr is given her for a covering. GoD gave it to Women 
for a covering, but not to Men. 

Another Scripture doth also condemn it, viz. Ezek. 44. 20. Neither 
shall they shave their heads, nor suffer their locks to grow long, they shall only 
poll their heads. Here are two Extreams forbid; Shaving the head, and 
suffering their locks to grow long. This must either signify some spiritual 
thing; but no Man can devise what; or some Gospel Institution; and 
if so, why is it not enjoyned unto Ministers in the New Testament, or 
else it isa Moral Law: and so it must be. One part of it, is surely Moral; 
They shall not shave their heads; therefore the other part is Moral also; 
They shall not suffer their locks to grow long. 

The Command of Gop requiring the Nazarites to nourish their Hair, 
is no vindication of long Hair; but a forcible reason against it; which 
will appear, if we consider two things. 

1. Sucu Actions, as under their ordinary circumstances, are Moral 
Evils; under extraordinary circumstances, be very good: So for Brothers 
and Sisters to joyn in Wedlock, as Adam’s Children did: For the Brother, 
among the Jews, to Marry his Brother’s Wife: So, for a Physician, to 
give an intoxicating Potion: to do that which ordinarily, is contrary 
to a Rule of Modesty. One Command, in many cases, must give way 
to another. 

2. The Nazarites were to deny themselves many comforts, to shew 
us that we should be mortified to the things of this World. Upon a 
Religious account, they were to abstain from Wine & Raisins, @e. 
and upon that account, they were to deny themselves of that neat- 
ness and comeliness in wearing their Hair, that was a duty in other 
Men. 

It was a part of the Calamity that came upon Nebuchadnezzar, that 
his Hairs were grown like Eagles Feathers, and his Nailes like birds claws, 
Dan. 4. 33. 


7. 


3 456 The Puritans 


[The following Letter, written by the same learned Author many years ago, 
may be here inserted. | 


SIR, 

In compliance with your desire, I now send you my Thoughts con- 
cerning Periwigs. I cannot see sufficient Reason to condemn them 
Universally. Gop does allow Man, by Art to supply the defects of Na- 
ture. Hair artificially prepared may supply as fully & innocently, the 
want of Hair, as any other matter artificially prepared. 3 

But yet I judge that there is abundance of Sin, in this Country, in 
wearing Periwigs. Particularly, in these two things; 

First, When Men do wear them needlessly, in compliance with the 
Fashion. ‘Their own Hair is sufficient for all those Ends that Gop has 
given Hair for. One Man’s Hair is comlier than another’s. And so it 
is with their Faces, and Bodies. Some' cut off their Own because of the 
Colour; it is Red or Grey; Some, because it is Streight; Some, because it 
is Frizel’d; and some, only, because it is their Own. 

Secondly, When those that may have just occasion to wear them, 
doe wear them in such a Ruffianly way, as it would be utterly unlaw-’ 
full to wear their own Hair in. Some of them are of an unreasonable 
Length; and generally, they are extravagant as to their Bushyness.... 

The Practice seems, to me, to have these four Evils in it: 

1. It is an Uncontentedness with that Provision that Gop has made 
for Men. Gop has generally given Men such Hair as is comly; and a 
sufficiency of it. And when it is so, Men have cause to be well satisfyed. 
When Gop has given to Men such Hair as is sutable to answer the Ends 
of Hair; It seems to be a Despising of the Goodness of Gop, to cut it off, 
in compliance with a Vain Fashion... . 

2. It is Wastefullness. Abundance of Money is needlessly spent in 
maintaining this Practice. Some of the Men that use it, have need 
enough of the Money other ways; and lay themselves under Tempta- 
tion by this Extravagancy; either to oppress Men in their Dealings; or 
to be more Pinching in other Cases, than they ought to be. And those 
Men that have more plentiful Estates, have no Liberty to use them ac- 
cording to their own Pleasure. ‘That Money that may be laid out to 
Advantage, should not be spent Unprofitably. 

3. Itis Pride: they do it to make a great Shew; It is from an Affecta- | 
tion of Swaggering; it is an Affecting of Finery that there is no just oc- 
casion for. They count it Brave to be in the Fashion; crave the honour 
of being counted as Gallant as others. It is too much Flanting. 

4. It is contrary to Gravity. There is a Masculine Gravity that should 


-Manners, Customs, and Behavior 457 


appear in the Countenances of Men, discovering a Solemnity of Spirit. 
But this Practice is Light, and Effeminat. Tho it make a Shew; yet it takes 
much away from the Presence of Men. Such Curiosity discovers much 
Vanity in the Mind; and makes others to esteem the more lightly of 
them; and not to shew that Respect to them. This Practice makes them 
look, as if they were more dispos’d to Court a Maid; than to bear upon 
their Hearts the weighty Concernments of Gop’s Kingdom. 

But I am fearful that the Stream runs so strong this way, that no 
Endeavours will work a Publick Reformation; until Gop does give 
Men another Spirit; or lay them under other Dispensations. Yet it 
may not be without good Effect on some particular Persons, if a Testi- 
mony be born against the Practice; if not to Reduce any; yet to Prevent 
some that were in danger. 

Thus Sir, I have endeavoured to give some Satisfaction to your 
Desires; which I hope you will take in good part, from your Servant. 


N—AH., July, 29. 1701. 


Q, VIII. Dip we any WRonG To THE JNDIANS IN BUYING THEIR 
LAND AT A SMALL PRICE? 


A. 1. There was some part of the Land that was not purchased, 
neither was there need that it should; it was vacuum domicilium; * and 
so might be possessed by vertue of Gop’s grant to Mankind, Gen. 1. 28. 
And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply and 
replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, 
and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the 
earth. The Indians made no use of it, but for Hunting. By Gop’s first 
Grant Men were to subdue the Earth. When Abraham came into the 
Land of Canaan, he made use of vacant Land as he pleased: so did 
Isaac and Jacob. 

2. The Indians were well contented that we should sit down by 
them. And it would have been for great Advantage, both for this 
World, and the Other; if they had been wise enough to make use of 
their Opportunities. It has been common with many People, in plan- 
ing this World since the Flood, to admit Neighbours, to sit down by 
them. 

3. Tho’ we gave but a small Price for what we bought; we gave 
_ them their demands, we came to their Market, and gave them their 
price; and indeed, it was worth but little: And had it continued in 
their hands, it would have been of little value. It is our dwelling on 
it, and our Improvements, that have made it to be of Worth. 


(Lo? -d vas 4x0} 10g) ‘pueqsnyzy 19fFy 0} dospiurpA Joressepy Jo 19}}9°'] 


ade COTY vail 
wfc Peps ago pier atie ed sok 


y= 
cob, re ! ws its DAA bg es O70 ae Duy “4 Ou v6 730, “0 ao 


The Puritans 


wo 


‘Lop ott 64 nok pester ‘he INT 


eed vw 
rok vf Mop 7fI0 feeyiten se SE Saas} zy dasogs 6 ac, I0KO} PUG “re! fi pee BI JH. AO 
¢ z bs 7 aa ~ arn we e/ 
cea VES = 
‘ 2019 PUD o74tto} “Aste PYLE STE bur ae 721014 © SIA Jott TY! £ 
‘nah popu) try 5 es ie pu be ef 77 es f # ig 


"4497 fF but ae ae JIMANOI ISO YE U9 hansfe PMED, fy Io IG Fors Ayu Bi wus Gas per 


shug II sabriufy oy Auris g g weer 74 ghiaef pb fog Wy choo fee ee Fee 2028) My os 
snet-2/ of vfo pre af te Aide: 6/ poeb hare 2p oye TE jaf ek , re soe eG sujbrioys srotal Sige 
bial vA WE OUE uoda auger neh, ny idl £040 ral qf: fits’ fee sucked A tain aes: 9 spat 1 ybriys wat up 
6666 x BIS ey o y 28a oy YP yma Bee poet oe ag Ti rok azar sakoai pp v0 sd res fre tani Aust ce 

wo £9 Iyurie fo f ime 4 wal fo f wo oef Aa a Me dusk sd fee bad ase nek 1 DoH Se ye SO dhe anh ts 
aine-poeb bin f 487 Hey ame awk. hb Biya; aj Ys a anoh ponte ony sprog, ipod pa chin wpe 


CO 
LN 
a 


«66 Chapter V 


BIOGRAPHIES AND LETTERS 


MONG the three or four scamps and scalawags who somehow strayed 
A into the holy communities of New England, and whose disrep- 
utable figures add a welcome touch of comic relief to the high 
seriousness of the Puritan drama, was Captain John Underhill. He 
was a soldier, brought along by the Massachusetts Bay Company more 
for his usefulness than for his piety; he did yeoman service in drilling 
farm boys and apprentices into soldiers and Indian fighters, but he 
succumbed to the insidious influence of Mrs. Anne Hutchinson, and 
gave a spectacular example of the worst implications of her teachings. 
Being assured that he was united to Christ by an immediate joining 
of spirits, he became confident he could do no wrong and need no 
longer respect the rules and regulations of civilized society. In 1638 
he was arraigned before the General Court on the charge, among 
others, of calling the authorities of Massachusetts Scribes and Pharisees. 
A witness further deposed that he had told her how he had sought five 
years for grace, “‘and could get no assurance, till at length, as he was 
taking a pipe of tobacco, the Spirit set home an absolute promise of 
free grace with such assurance and joy, as he never since doubted of 
his good estate, neither should he, though he should fall into sin.” 
Thereupon he proceeded not simply to fall, but more accurately to 
plunge into a considerable quantity of sin, without so much as a single 
qualm of conscience. 

Underhill, was dealt with by the usual machinery of Puritan justice. 
The ministers explained the nature of his sins, and the magistrates 
passed such sentence as those sins deserved. His ethical theories were 
of course exposed as dangerous fallacies; John Cotton also took oc- 
casion to point out that any sense of assurance obtained while he 
was occupied in so trivial and worldly a practice as smoking his pipe 
was suspect to begin with, and further declared that except in a few 
special cases, as with St. Paul, the experience of regeneration does not 
come upon a man in a sudden flash, but slowly and by degrees. As- 
surance of salvation does not hit the saint like a brickbat on the head, 
but is gradually and industriously acquired by his diligent pursuit of 
religious ordinances and strenuous meditation upon God’s word. There- 
fore Cotton seriously “advised him well to examine the revelation and 
joy which he had.” ! Captain Underhill made a pretense of profiting 

1 Winthrop’s Journal, ed. J. K. Hosmer (New York, 1908), I, 275-276. 

459 


460 | The Puritans 


by this advice, but still went from bad to worse, and at last the govern- 
ment and churches breathed a long sigh of relief when he and his 
erroneous assurance went off to New Amsterdam to take service with 
the Dutch. . | 

It is probable that the Puritans in England had been more ready — 
to conceive of regeneration as a clap of thunderous illumination, but — 
in New England the heresy of the Antinomians and the whole task 
of holding religious passion within the limits of control and orderly 
_ procedure accentuated the tendency to regard the experience not as 
a sudden convulsion of the soul wrought in the twinkling of an eye, 
but as a laborious process. Too many of these cataclysmic conversions 
turned out like Captain Underhill’s. Consequently the standard doc- 
trine in New England very soon was crystallized in the statement that 
though in rare instances the Holy Ghost might overwhelm a soul 
without any previous preparation, still for most persons the call of 
Christ would come through a long succession of sermons carefully and 
inwardly digested, long conferences with ministers and saints, years of 
self-examination and sustained endeavor to live the saintly life. Samuel 
Willard explained that those who “Commence Believers’? (using the 
academic phrase, by which a student given a degree was said ‘“‘to 
commence’’) without an antecedent and long-drawn out conviction 
and period of humiliation were apt to prove apostates, that God carries 
his decree of election in secret ways “under ground a great while, 
before it rise and break out in effectual Calling.’’ 1! The whole process 
was mysterious, it was something that happened to men and women, 
not something they brought about of their own volition. Another 
minister, seeking for a metaphor to illustrate it, hit upon one of the 
happier figures of Puritan sermonizing: 


It fares here, as when persons by some unobserved and unforeseen 
emanations of spirits from the heart, and pressing through the optick 
nerves flow into their mutual eyes, and dart themselves into one an- 
others breasts, whence they become suddenly taken, and as it were in- 
kindled by certain lineatures in their feitures; and are rapt into deep 
admiration of somewhat in each other, which neither themselves nor the 
wisest Philosopher in being can give reason sagacious enough to unfold 
the surprizing influence when they are constellated to conjugal union.? 


Some couples may indeed fall in love at first sight, but the average pair 
of lovers advance somewhat less precipitously, what with emanations 
of spirits pressing through the optic nerves, and are less aware of what 


1 Mercy Magnified on a Penitent Prodigal, A 3 recto. 
2 Samuel Lee, Xapa rns Uisews, The Foy of Faith, pp. 119-120. 


Biographies and Letters 461 


is happening to them, up to the very point of proposal; so the normal 
saints become aware only after a time of doubt and bewilderment that 
the seeds of grace have been sown in their hearts. 

It is necessary to keep this doctrine in mind when we come to the 
reading of Puritan journals, diaries, and biographies, for it explains the 
purpose of the Puritan’s study of his own life, or of the lives of others. 
The ways of grace were manifold and no two men ever underwent 
the crisis in a perfectly similar fashion; in order that we might know the 
nature and manifestations of the disease, it was necessary to peruse the 
records of those who had undergone it, and to keep a full medical chart 
upon our own pulse and temperature. The art of biography as under- 
stood by the Puritans was the preparation of case histories. And every 
man who was concerned about his own plight should take down a daily 
record of his fluctuations and his symptoms, so that he could view 
himself with the complete objectivity demanded for accurate diagnosis 
of his spiritual health or sickness. A. journal covering several years’ 
experience could, when critically perused, offer the best evidence as 
to whether or not the secret decree of God had been operating ‘‘under 
ground” during that time. Accounts of individuals’ own lives, or of 
the lives of great men and conspicuous saints, were not to be descrip- 
tions of their appearances or of the clothes they wore or of what they 
ate for breakfast, but of the works of grace in their hearts and the 
exemplifications of the spirit in their conduct. The masterpiece of 
autobiography in this vein is Bunyan’s Grace Abounding, and in The 
Pilgrim’s Progress is the type figure for all Puritan journeys from birth to 
death, the supreme exemplar of which the biography of each particular 
Christian is but the individual variant. 

It is probable that almost every literate Puritan kept some sort of 
journal; the number of diaries that remain from the seventeenth and 
eighteenth centuries is legion, and the habit became so thoroughly 
ingrained in the New England character that it remained a practice 
with various Yankees long after they had ceased to be Puritans, to the 
great enrichment of our political and literary history, as witness the 
diaries of John Quincy Adams and Gideon Welles, or the journals of 
Emerson, Thoreau, and Hawthorne. Henry Adams, dissecting his career | 
in the search for “education,” is writing in the true New England 
tradition, and undertakes no more than countless Puritans had done 
when they submitted their lives to microscopic examination to dis- 
cover if they had at any time found that vision of the unity and mean- 
ing of the universe which they called regeneration and for which he 
endeavored to substitute a dynamic theory of history. 


462 The Puritans 


The preoccupation with the subjective life and the essential sameness 
of the experiences recorded make most of these early journals monoto- 
nous and unrevealing. Very few of them tell us anything of what people 
did or what they said or how they occupied their time, and of what 
they thought there appears but one reiterated strain. Most of them are 
not of great interest to the historian and of less to the general reader, 
but there is a brilliant exception, both for its literary charm and his- 
torical value, in that of Samuel Sewall. The reasons for its pre-eminence 
are in part the result of the times and circumstances in which Sewall ‘ 
made his jottings. He lived through the transition from the religious 
seventeenth century to the more wordly eighteenth, and though he 
was a conservative in doctrinal belief and disinclined to many new 
customs and ideas, whether periwigs or the Copernican hypothesis, 
still he was bound to move with his age. Consequently, though the 
early pages of his journal are concerned with probings into the state 
of his soul and with pious meditations, and though he continues to 
the end of his days ‘“‘improving”’ occasions with spiritual moralizings, 
yet even with him the religious preoccupation perceptibly lessened, 
and for the last thirty or forty years he recorded more and more of 
his secular employments and worldly fortunes. In his old age, after his 
first wife died, he went a-courting, and put down the story of his 
successes and rebuffs with an attention to incidentals that would hardly 
have been possible in a diary of the seventeenth century. ‘The result 
was that he created, all unknowingly, two minor literary triumphs, 
the stories of his failure to acquire the hand of either the timorous 
widow Denison or of the supremel¥ competent widow Winthrop. 

Sewall’s journal is also exceptional because of his own prominence 
in the political affairs of the colony, Though trained for the ministry, 
his bent was for business and administration; he married the daughter 
of John Hull, the mintmaster and one of the wealthiest men of the 
community; he inherited property from his father-in-law, and always 
had a considerable estate to manage. He served the colony in many 
official capacities, as magistrate, judge, and at last chief justice. In- 
evitably he recorded his meetings with leading men of the colony, 
of discussions in the council, of squabbles among the politicians, of 
good dinners enjoyed by the judges while riding the circuit, and of 
crises in the state. He was appointed by Governor Phips to serve on 
the special court that tried and condemned the witches at Salem; he 
concurred in the decisions at the time, but a few years later he realized, 
along with most intelligent opinion in the colony, that the community 
had been stampeded by panic and that innocent men and women 


Biographies and Letters : 463 


had been slaughtered. The chief justice of that particular court, Wil- 
liam Stoughton, in whose address before the General Court of 1668 
had glowed the confidence that New England was the apple of the 
divine eye (pp. 243-246), never repented his share in the executions, 
but Sewall was of larger mold. The custom in the churches was for 
anyone who wanted the prayers of the congregation during affliction, 
or their sympathy during repentance, to post a notice of the request 
before the assembly; Sewall put up the sheet which he transcribes 
in his diary, announcing his humiliation and repentance for misjudging 
the innocent, and sat during this Sabbath not in the pew to which he, 
as a pillar of the church and the leader of the singing, was entitled, 
but on the mourners’ bench, where convicted sinners were customarily 
exhibited to the admonition and censure of the godly. 

This act indicates that there is still a further reason for the quality 
of Sewall’s diary besides the times and his official prominence. He 
was a limited and prosaic man, but there is an honesty about him 
that shines through his pages, even where he himself least intended it 
or where it does not show him to advantage. The unconscious humor 
and the unwitting self-portraiture of the story of the courtships elevate 
those portions of the journal into the realm of classic confessionals. 
His meditation, in 1727, upon the death of his classmate, when he 
himself was seventy-five and had but three years to live, reveals the 
essential depth of the man, for all his crotchets and shortcomings. 

Thomas Shepard, the great preacher who succeeded Hooker at 
Cambridge, wrote the narrative of his life for the edification of his 
children. John Williams, pastor at Deerfield, told of the massacre and 
his captivity in Canada for the edification of all the righteous; his book 
was bought and read not only by them, but, one suspects, by many 
others, for he managed to tell a good adventure story that sold to a 
tune which must have warmed his publishers’ hearts. Shepard was 
much the greater man of the two, with a larger breadth of education 
and vision; Williams was a back-country minister, a provincial figure 
with a limited imagination and not much taste, but his courage was 
invincible and his devotion to what he believed very little short of 
incredible. The two narratives reveal much about the Puritan char- 
acter, and a comparison of them indicates some of the features that 
remained constant in a hundred years of development, and some that 
changed. 

The literary value of letters written by Puritans is naturally fugitive. 
‘Thousands of papers survive from the seventeenth century, and most 
‘of them concern immediate affairs. Those of John Winthrop to his 


464 The Puritans 


wife, particularly at the time of the departure for New England, not 
only throw light upon the circumstances of that expedition, but reveal 
certain depths of the Puritan spirit and the nature of conjugal affection 
in Puritan households. Mrs. Winthrop was to remain in England until 
a home was prepared in America; on Mondays and Fridays at five in 
the afternoons they agree to drop all distractions and to think of each 
other; in another letter, written on St. Valentine’s Day, he closes by 
assuring his Margaret she is his Valentine. Tenderness and love un- 
doubtedly existed here, but side by side with it there was religious — 
passion, so that he mingles exhortation with his affection, and she, 
pining in his absence, welcomes his love letters because they serve her 
instead of a sermon. The letters of Roger Williams are clear revelations 
of the spirit of the man, and proclaim his greatness and his nobility 
as no panegyrics could do. The correspondence with Mrs. Sadleir 
furnishes a commentary upon his theories of religious liberty; it also 
illustrates that this splendid radical had something in him of the tact- 
less intrusiveness of the doctrinaire, who sees nothing amiss in forcing - 
his well-meaning attentions upon those who want none of them. 

The art of formal biography is here represented by the work of In- 
crease and Cotton Mather. Increase proposed the task of writing his 
father’s life immediately after the old gentleman died, telling himself 
“it would be a service not only honorable to my Father, but acceptable 
& honorable to the name of God.’ As Professor Murdock has said, 
the biography reaches “‘a simple dignity that comes close to art.’’! 
Cotton Mather provided in the Magnalia a complete list of New Eng- 
land leaders and supplied their biographies; the faults of his work 
have already been commented upon (p. go), and are indeed all too 
obvious, but it is a mine of information and a storehouse of Puritan 
beliefs. The life of Eliot is one of his happier efforts; it is at least an 
excellent illustration of the values which were to be perceived accord- 
ing to Puritan standards in the life of a saint, and of the manner in 
which the moral of a holy career was to be pointed up. The chapter 
on Eliot’s birth, early life, and marriage makes “no more than an 
entrance in the history,” which becomes really significant with the 
account of his conversion; episodes are stressed not for themselves, 
but for their meanings, and are shamelessly taken as occasions for 
generalization; the death scene is draped in the phrases appropriate 
to the saint’s certain translation from earth to heaven. 

The pilgrimage of man and woman from earth to heaven is still 
the theme of Parson Ebenezer Turell when he relates the lives of his 

1 Kenneth B. Murdock, Increase Mather (Cambridge, 1925), pp. 96-97. 


Biographies and Letters 465 


father-in-law and of his wife. Jane Turell evidently possessed the au- 
thentic Puritan conscience, and agonized in the approved abasement 
of spirit over her salvation. But in these works a new note begins to 
sound; the title page proclaims the life of a lady who was not only 
“pious” but “‘ingenious”’; she had “digested”? English poetry, and was 
versed in “‘polite pieces in prose’; her husband was first attracted to 
‘her not only by her sanctity but by her “taste,” which he feared’ so 
much that even at her request he would not venture to translate a 
psalm:lest he do violence to her sensibilities by the grossness of his 
masculine meters. When such criteria began to creep into the fugemeoy 
of biographers, the Puritan age was on the wane. 


JOHN WINTHROP, 1588-1649 


[For Winthrop’s life see p. 125. Margaret Winthrop was John’s 
third wife; they were married in 1618. She died in 1647 (see Winthrop’s 
notice, p. 142). Texts are from Winthrop Papers, Vol. II (Massachusetts 
Historical Society, Boston, 1931).] 


LETTERS OF THE WINTHROPS 


Joun WintHrop To His WIFE 


HE LARGNESSE and trueth of my loue to thee makes me allwayes 

mindfull of thy wellfare, and settes me on to worke to beginne 

to write, before I heare from thee: the verye thought of thee affordes 

me many a kynde refreshinge, what will then the enioyinge of thy 
sweet societye, which I prize aboue all worldly comfortes? 

Yet such is the folye and miserye of man, as he is easylye brought to 
contemne the true good he enioyes, and to neglect the best thinges 
which he holdes onely in hope, and bothe vpon an vngrounded desire 
of some seeminge good which he promiseth to himselfe: and if it be 
thus with vs, that are Christians, who haue a sure worde to directe vs, 
and the holy Faith to liue by, what is the madnesse and bondage of 
those who are out of Christ? O: the riches of Christ! O: the sweetnesse 
of the worde of Grace! it rauisheth my soule in the thought heerof, so 
as when I apprehende but a glimpse of the dignitye and felicitye of a 
Christian, I can hardly perswade my heart, to hope for so great 
happynesse: let men talke what they will of riches, honors pleasures 

tc.; let vs haue Christ crucified, and let them take all besides: for 
indeed, he who hath Christ hath all thinges with him, for he enioyeth 
an allsufficiencie which makes him abundantly riche in pouertye, hon- 


466 3 The Puritans 


orable in the lowest abasementes, full of ioye and consolation in the 
sharpest Afflictions, liuinge in death, and possessinge aeternitye in this 
vale of miserye: therefore blesse we God, for his free and infinite mercye, 
in bestowinge Christ vpon vs: let vs entertaine and loue him with our 
whole heartes: let vs trust in him, and cleaue to him, with denyall of 
our selues, and all thinges besides, and account our portion the best 
in the world: that so beinge strengthned and comforted in his loue, 


we may putt forth our selues, to improue our life and meanes, to doe — 


him seruice: there are very fewe howers lefte of this daye of our labour, 
then comes the night, when we shall take our rest, in the morninge 
we shall awake vnto glorye and immortalitye, when we shall haue 
no more worke to doe, no more paines or griefe to endure, no more 
care, feare, want, reproach, or infirmitye; no more sinne, corruption 
or temptation. 

I am forced to patch vp my lettres, heer a peece and there another. 
I haue now receiued thine, the kyndly fruites of thy most sweet Affec- 
tion. Blessed be the Lorde for the wellfare of thy selfe and all our 
familye. I receiued lettres from my 2: sonnes with thee, remember 
my loue and blessinge to them, and to my daughter Winth[rop] for 
whose safetye I giue the Lord thankes: I haue so many lettres to write 
as I cannot write to them now: our freindes heer are in reasonable 
health, and desire to be kindly remembered to you all. Commende me 
to all my good freindes, my louinge neighbours goodman Cole and 
his wife, to whom we are allwayes much behouldinge. I will remember 
M[ary] her gowne and petticoate, and the childrens girdles. So with 
my most affectionate desires of thy wellfare, and my blessinge to all 
our children, I kisse my sweet wife, and comende thee and all ours to 
the gratious protection of our heauenly father, and rest Thy faithfull 
husbande still present with thee in his most vnkinde absence 

Jo:. Winthrop. 

May 8 1629. i 

I am sorye for my neighbour Bluetes horse, but he shall loose nothinge 
by him. tell my sonne Hen: I will pay the mony he writes of. 


JouNn WintHrop To His WIFE 


My good wife, I prayse the Lorde for the wished newes of thy well- 
fare and of the rest of our Companye, and for the continuance of ours 
heer: it is a great favour, that we may enioye so much comfort and 
peace in these so euill and declininge tymes and when the increasinge 
of our sinnes giues vs so great cause to looke for some heauye Scquorge 
and Judgment to be comminge vpon us: the Lorde hath admonished, 


Biographies and Letters 467 


threatened, corrected, and astonished vs, yet we growe worse ‘and 
worse, so as his spirit will not allwayes striue with vs, he must needs 
giue waye to his furye at last: he hath smitten all the other Churches 
before our eyes, and hath made them to drinke of the bitter cuppe 
of tribulation, euen vnto death; we sawe this, and humbled not our- 
selues, to turne from our euill wayes, but haue prouoked him more 
then all the nations rounde about vs: therefore he is turninge the cuppe 
towards vs also, and because we are the last, our portion must be, to 
drinke the verye dreggs which remaine: my deare wife, I am veryly 
perswaded, God will bringe some heauye Affliction vpon this lande, 
and that speedylye: but be of good Comfort, the hardest that can 
come shall be a meanes to mortifie this bodye of Corruption, which is 
a thousand tymes more dangerous to vs then any outward tribulation, 
and to bringe vs into neerer communion with our Lo: Jes: Christ, 
and more Assurance of his kingdome. If the Lord seeth it wilbe good 
for vs, he will prouide a shelter and a hidinge place for vs and ours 
as a Zoar for Lott, Sarephtah for his prophet etc: if not, yet he will 
not forsake vs: though he correct vs with the roddes of men, yet if he 
take not his mercye and louinge kindnesse from vs we shalbe safe. 
He onely is allsufficient, if we haue him, we haue all thinges: if he 
seeth it not good, to cutt out our portion in these thinges belowe equall 
to the largnesse of our desires, yet if he please to frame our mindes to 
the portion he allottes vs, it wilbe as well for vs. 

I thanke thee for thy kinde lettre, I am goinge to Westm[inster], and 
must heere breake of. I would haue my sonne H[enry] to be heere 
on teusdaye that I may goe out of towne on wensdaye or thursdaye 
next. If marye her gowne be made I will send it down by Smith this 
weeke, or els next, with other thinges: all our freindes heer are indif- 
ferent well, and desire to be comended to thee, so with my hearty 
salut[ation]s to all our freindes with thee, my loue and blessinge to 
my sonnes and daughteres, In very much hast, I ende and commende 
thee and all ours to the gratious protection and blessinge of the Lorde 
so I kisse my sweet wife, and thinke longe till I see thee farewell. Thine 

| Jo: Winthrop. 

I thanke thee for our Turkye 
May 15 1629 


MARGARET WINTHROP TO HER HusBAND 


To my very loueinge Husband John Winthrope Esquire theese dd. 


Most louinge and good Husband, I haue receued your letters. the 
true tokens of your loue and care of my good, now in your abcence 


468 The Puritans 


as well as when you are present, it makes me thinke that sayinge falce 
out of sight out of minde. I am sure my hart and thoughts are all wayes 
neere you to doe you good and not euill all the dayse of my life. 

I hope through gods blessinge your paynes will not be all together 
lost which you bestow vpon me in rightinge those serious thoughts of 
your owne which you sent me did make a very good supply in stead 
of a sarmon. I shall often reade them and desyre to be of gods famyle 


to home so many blessinges be-longe and pray that I may not be one | 


separated from god whose concience is alwayes accusinge them. I 
shall not neede to right to you of any thing this weke my sonne and 
brother Goslinge can tell you how we are. and I shall thinke longe for 
your cominge home. and thus with my best loue to you I beseech the 
lord to send vs a comfortable meetinge in his good time I commit 
you to the Lord. Your louinge and obedient wife 
Margaret Winthrope. 

[Ca. May 18, 1629.] 


MARGARET WINTHROP TO HER HusBAND 


‘Lo hir very louinge and deare Husban John Winthrope Esquire at 
mr. Downings house in fleet strete neere thee Condite these dd. 


My deare Husband, I knowe thou art desyrus to heere often from vs 
which makes me take plesure in rightinge to thee, and in relatinge my 
true affections to thee and desyers of your wished welfayer. the good 
lord be euer with thee and prosper all thy affayres [in] this great and 
waytty busines which is now in hand, that it may be for the glory of 
his most holy name and furtherance of his gospell, but I must part 
with my most deare Husban, which is a uery hard tryall for me to 
vndergoe, if the lord doe not supporte and healpe me in it, I shalbe 
vnable to beare it. I haue now receiued thy kinde letter which I cannot 
reade without sheding a great many teares, but I will resine thee and 
giue thee into the hands of the almyti god who is all soficient for thee, 
whome I trust will keepe thee and prosper thee in the way thou art 


to goe, if thou walke before him in truth and vprightnesse of hart, he 


will neuer fayle of his promise to thee. therefore my good Husban 
chere vp thy hart in god and in the expectation of his fauors and 
blessings in this thy change, with asurance of his loue in Crist Jesus 
our lord for our change heare after when we shall liue with him in 
glory for euer. as for me his most vnworthy seruant I will cleaue to 
my Husban Crist as neere as I can though my infirmytyes be great he 
is able to heale them and wil not forsake me in the time of neede. I 


>. — — 


Biographies and Letters 469 


know I shall haue thy prayers to god for me that what is wanting in 
thy presence may be supplyed by the comfort of gods spirit. [ am now 
full of passion haueinge nuly receiued thy letter and not able to right 
much. my sonne F{orth] will right about other busines. I begine to 
feare I shall see thee no more before thou goest which I should be 
very sory for and earnestly intreat thee that thou wilt com once more 
downe if it be’ possible. and thus with my due respect to thy selfe 
brother and sister D. thankes for my leamers to my sister, my loue to 
my sonnes, I commit thee to god and rest Your faythfull and obedient 
wife 
Margaret Winthrope. 
My good sister F. remembers hir loue. 


[Groton, February 2, 1630.] 


Joun WinTHRopP To His WIFE 


To my very lounge wife mrs. Winthrop the Elder at Groton in Suffolk dd. 


My sweet wife, Thy loue is such to me, and so great is the bonde be- 
tweene vs, that I should neglect all others to hold correspondencye of 
lettres with thee: but I knowe thou art willinge to dispense with some- 
what of thine owne right, to giue me lib[er]ty to satisfie my other oc- 
casions for the present, which call me to much writinge this eueninge, 
otherwise I would haue returned a larger answeare to thy sweet lettre. 
I prayse God we are all in health, and we goe on cheerfully in our 
businesse: I purpose (if God will) to be with thee vpon thursdaye come 
sennight, and then I must take my Farewell of thee, for a summers 
daye and a winters daye, the Lorde our good God will (I hope) sende 
vs a happye meetinge againe in his good tyme: Amen. Comende me 
kindly to my good sister F[ones] I would haue written to her, but I 
cannot, havinge 6: Lettres to write. I wrote to mr. P[aynter] tell my 
sister that her mother is brought in bedd and the child dead, and 
she in great danger. among other thinges let the brassen quart in the 
Larder howse be putt vp: and my grey cloake and the coate which was 
my brother Fones. and let this warrant inclosed be sent to Colchester 
to mr. Samuell Borrowes by the next tyme the carte goes. The Lord 
blesse thee my sweet wife with all our children: my brother and sister 
salute you all: my sonnes remember their loue and dutye: comend my 
loue to all: farewell Thy faithfull husband, 

Jo: Winthrop. 
[London,] Feb: 5. 1630. 

remember to putt me vp some Cardam[ons] and Cardam[on] 

seed. 


470 The Puritans 


Beinge now ready to sende away my lettres; I receiued thine, the 
readinge of it hath dissolued my head into tears, I can write no more, 
if I liue I will see thee ere I goe. I shall parte from thee with sorrowe 
enough, be comfortable my most sweet wife, our God wilbe with thee 
Farewell. 


Joun Winturop to His Wire 


To M. W. the Elder at Groton 


My faithfull and deare wife, It pleaseth God that thou shouldest 
once againe heare from me before our departure, and I hope this shall 
come safe to thy hands, I knowe it wilbe a great refreshinge to thee: 
And blessed be his mercye, that I can write thee so good newes, that 
we are all in verye good health, and hauinge tryed our shipps enter- 
tainment now more then a weeke, we finde it agree very well with vs, 
our boyes are well and cheerfull, and haue no minde of home, they lye 
both with me, and sleepe as soundly in a rugge (for we vse no sheets 
heer) as euer they did at Groton, and so I doe my selfe (I prayse God). 
the winde hath been against vs this weeke and more, but this day it 
is come faire to the North, so as we are preparinge (by Godes assistance) 
to sett sayle in the morninge: we haue onely 4: shippes ready, and some 
2: or 3: hollandes goe alonge with vs: the rest of our fleet (beinge 7: 
shippes) will not be ready this senight. we haue spent now 2: sabbaths 
_ on shipp board, very comfortably (God be praysed) and are daylye 
more and more incouraged to looke for the Lords presence to goe 
alonge with vs: Hen: Kingesburye hath a childe or 2: in the Talbott 
sicke of the measells, but like to doe well: one of my men had them 
at Hampton, but he was soone well againe. we are in all our 11: shippes, 
about 700: persons passengers; and 240 Cowes, and about 60: horses. 
the shippe which went from Plimouth carried about 140: persons, and 
the shippe which goes from Bristowe, carrieth about 80: persons. And 
now (my sweet soule) I must once againe take my last farewell of thee 
in old England, it goeth verye neere to my heart to leaue thee, but I 
know to whom I haue committed thee, euen to him, who loues the[e] 
much better than any husband can, who hath taken account of the 
haires of thy head, and putts all thy teares in his bottle, who can, and 
(if it be for his glorye) will bringe vs togither againe with peace and 
comfort. oh how it refresheth my heart to thinke that I shall yet againe 
see thy sweet face in the lande of the liuinge: that louely countenance, 
that I haue so much delighted in, and beheld with so great contente! 
I haue hetherto been so taken vp with businesse, as I could seldome 
looke backe to my former happinesse, but now when I shalbe at some 


a SN ee 


Biographies and Letters 471 


leysure, I shall not auoid the remembrance of thee, nor the greife for 
thy absence: thou hast thy share with me, but I hope, the course we 
haue agreed vpon wilbe some ease to vs both, mundayes and frydayes 
at 5: of the clocke at night, we shall meet in spiritt till we meet in 
person. yet if all these hopes should faile, blessed be our God, that we 
are assured, we shall meet one day, if not as husband and wife, yet in 
a better condition, let that staye and comfort thy heart, neither can 
the sea drowne thy husband, nor enemyes destroye, nor any adversity 
depriue thee of thy husband or children. therefore I will onely take 
thee now and my sweet children in mine armes, and kisse and embrace 
you all, and so leaue you with my God. farewell farewell. I blesse you 
all in the name of the Lord Jesus; I salute my daughter Winth: Matt, 
Nan and the rest, and all my good neighbors and freindes pray all 
for vs. farewell. | 

Comende my blessinge to my sonne John. I cannot now write to him, 
but tell him I haue committed thee and thine to him, labour to drawe 
him yet nearer to God, and he wilbe the surer staffe of comfort to thee. 
I cannot name the rest of my good freinds, but thou canst supply it. 
I wrote a weeke since to thee and mr. Leigh and diuerse others. Thine 
wheresoever 


Jo: Winthrop. 


From Aboard the’ Arbella rydinge at the Cowes march 28. 1630. 

I would haue written to my brother and sister Gostlinge, but it is 
neer midnight, let this excuse and commende my,love to them and all 
theirs. 


THOMAS SHEPARD, 1605-1649 


[For Shepard’s life see p. 117. The autobiography was written for 
the benefit of his son. This text is from The Autobiography of Thomas 
Shepard, edited by Allyn B. Forbes, Publications of the Colonial Society of 
Massachusetts, XX VII (1932), 321-400.] 


THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF THOMAS SHEPARD 


HE FIRST two yeares I spent in Cambridge was in studying & in 
my neglect of god & priuate prayer which I had sometime vsed. 
& I did not regard the Lord at all vnless it were at some fits; the 34 
yeare wherin I was Sophister I began to be foolish & proud & to shew 
my selfe in the publike Schooles; & there to be a disputer about things 
which now I see I did not know then at all but only prated about 


472 The Puritans 


them; & toward the end of this yeare when I was most vile (after I had 
bin next vnto the gates of Death by the [small] Pox the yeare before) 
the Lord began to Call me home to the fellowship of his grace; which 
was in this manner 

1. I doe remember that I had many good affections (but blind & 
vnconstant) oft cast into me since my fathers sicknes by the spirit of 
god wrastling with me, & hence I would pray in secret & hence when 
I was at Cambridge I heard old Doctor Chadderton! the master of 


the Colledge when I came & the first yeare I was there to heare him 


vpon a Sacrament day my hart was much affected but I did breake 
loose from the Lord agayne & halfe a yeare after I heard mt Dickinson 
common place in the chappell vpon those woords I will not destroy 
it for tens sake. Gen: 19. & then agayne was much affected; but I 
shooke this off also & fell from god to loose & lewd company to lust 
& pride & gaming & bowling & drinking; & yet the Lord left me not 
but a godly Scholler walking with me, fell to discourse about the 
misery of euery man out of Christ viz: that what euer they did was sin; 
& this did much affect me; & at another time when I did light in godly 
company I heard them discourse about the wrath of god, & the terrour 
of it & how intollerable it was which they did present by fire how 
intollerable the torment of that was for a time what then would eter- 
nity be; & this did much awaken me; & I began tq pray agayne; but 
then by loose company I came to dispute in the Schooles & there to 
joyne to loose schollers of other colledges & was fearfully left of god 
& fell to drinke with them; & I dranke so much on day that I was 
dead drunke & that vpon a saturday night & so was carryed from the 
place I had drinke at & did feast at, vnto a Schollers chamber on 
Basset of Christs Colledge; & knew not where I was vntill I awakened 
late on that sabboth & sick with my beastly carriage; & when I 
awakened I went from him in shame & confusion, & went out into the 
feelds & there spent that sabboth lying hid in the corne feelds where the 
Lord who might justly haue cut me off in the mids of my sin; did 
meet me with much sadnes of hart & troubled my soule for this & 
other my sins which then I had cause & laysure to thinke of: & now 
when I was woorst he began to be best vnto me & made me resolue 
to set vpon a course of dayly meditation about the euill of sin & my 
own wayes; yet although I was troubled for this sin I did not know 
my sinfull nature all this while. . . 

At this time I cannot omit the goodnes of god as to my selfe so to all 
the cuntry in deliuering vs from the Pekoat furies; * these Indians were 
the stoutest proudest & most successefull in there wars of all the 


Biographies and Letters A73 


Indians; there cheefe Sachem was Sasakus, a proud cruell vnhapy & 
headstrong prince, who not willing to be guided by the perswasions 
of his fellow an aged Sachem Momanattuck nor fearing the reuenge 
of the English, hauing first suckt the blood of captaine Ston & mt Oldam 
found it so sweet & his proceedings for on whole winter so successefull 
that hauing beseeged & kild about 4 men that kept Seabrook fort he 
aduentured to fall vpon the English vp the riuer at Wethersfeed where 
he slew 9 or 10. men women & children at vnawares, & tooke two 
maids prisoners carrying them away captiue to the Pekoat cuntry 
herevpon those vpon the riuer first gathered about 70 men & sent 
them into Pekoat cuntry, to make that the seat of war, & to reuenge 
the death of those innocents whom they barbarously & most vnnaturally 
slew; these men marched two dayes & nights from the way of the 
Naraganset vnto Pekoat; being guided by those Indians then the ancient 
enemies of the Pekoats they intended to assault Sasakus Fort but falling 
short of it the second night the prouidence of god guided them to 
another nearer, full of stout men & their best souldiers being as it were 
coopt vp there to the number of 3 or 400 in all for the diuine slaughter 
by the hand of the English; these therfore being all night making 
merry & singing the death of the English the next day, toward breake 
of the day being very heauy with sleepe the English drew neare within 
the sight of the fort, very weary with trauayle & want of sleepe, at 
which time 500 Naragansets fled for feare & only 2 of the company 
stood to it to conduct them to the fort & the dore & entrance thereof; 
the English being come to it awakened the fort with a peale of muskets 
directed into the midst of there wigwams; & after this some vnder- 
taking to compasse the fort without some aduentured into the fort 
vpon the very faces of the enemy standing ready with there arrowes 
ready bent to shoot who euer should aduenture; but the English 
casting by there peeces tooke there swoords in there hands (the Lord 
doubling there strength & courage) & fell vpon the Indians where a 
hot fight continued about the space of an houre, at last by the direction 
of on Captayne Mason there wigwams were set on fire which being 
dry & contiguous on to another was most dreadfull to the Indians, some 
burning some bleeding to death by the swoord some resisting till they 
were cut off some flying were beat down by the men without vntill 
the Lord had vtterly consumed the whole company except 4 or 5. 
girles they tooke prisoners & dealt with them at Seabrooke as they 
dealt with ours at Wethersfeeld, & tis verily thought scarce on man 
escaped vnles on or two to carry foorth tydings of the lamentable end 
of there fellowes; & of the English not on man was kild but on by the 


ATA The Puritans 


musket of an Englishman (as was conceiued) some were wounded 
much but all recouered & restored agayne. . . 

But the Lord hath not bin woont to let me liue long without some 
affliction or other, & yet euer mixt with some mercy, & therefore Aprill 
the 24: 1646. as he gaue me another son, John. so he tooke away my 
most deare precious meeke & louing wife, in childbed, after 3 weekes 
lying in, hauing left behind her two hopefull branches my deare chil- 


dren, Samuell, & John: this affliction was very heauy to me, for in it | 


the Lord seemd to withdraw his tender care for me & mine, which 
he graciously manifested by my deare wife; also refused to heare 
prayer, when I did thinke he would haue hearkned & let me see his 
bewty in the land of the liuing, in restroring of her to health agayne; 
also in taking her away in the prime time of her life when shee might 
haue liued to haue glorifyed the Lord long. also in threatning me to 
proceed in rooting out my family, & that he would not stop hauing 
begun here as in Ely for not being zealous enough agaynst the sins 
of his son; & I saw that if I had profited by former afflictions of this 
nature I should not haue had this scourge; but I am the Lords, & he 
may doe with me what he will, he did teach me to prize a little grace 
gained by a crosse as a sufficient recompense for all outward losses; 
but this losse was very great; shee was a woman of incomparable 
meeknes of spirit, toward my selfe especially & very louing; of great 
prudence to take care for & order my family affayres being neither 
too lauish nor sordid in any thing so that I knew not what was vnder 
her hands; shee had an excellency to reprooue for sin & discerned the 
euills of men; shee loued gods people dearly & studious to profit by 
there fellowship, & therefore loued there company shee loued gods 
woord exceedingly & hence was glad shee could read my notes which 
shee had to muse on every weeke; shee had a spirit of prayer beyond 
ordinary of her time & experience shee was fit to dy long before shee 
did dy, euen after the death of her first borne which was a great 
affliction to her, but her woorke not being done then shee liued almost 
g. yeares with me & was the comfort of my life to me & the last Sacra- 
ment. before her lying in seemd to be full of Christ & thereby fitted 
for heauen; shee did oft say shee should not outliue this child; & when 
her feuer first began (by taking some cold) shee told me soe, that we 
should loue exceedingly together because we should not liue long to- 
gether; her feuer tooke away her sleepe, want of sleepe wrought much 
distemper in her head, & filled it with fantasies & distractions but 
without raging; the night before shee dyed, shee had about 6 houres 
vnquiet sleepe; but that so coold & setled her head, that when shee 


Biographies and Letters ATS 


knew none else so as to speake to them, yet shee knew Jesus Christ & 
could speake to him, & therefore as soone as shee awakened out of 
sleepe shee brake out into a most heauenly hartbreaking prayer after 
Christ her deare redeemer for the sparing of life; & so continued 
praying vntill the last houre of her death: Lord tho I vnwoorthy Lord 
on woord on woord &c. & so gaue vp the ghost; thus god hath visited 
& scourged me for my sins & sought to weane me from this woorld, 
but I haue euer found it a difficult thing to profit euer but a little by 
the sorest & sharpest afflictions. 


ROGER WILLIAMS, 1604-1683 


[For Williams’s life see p. 214. The text of these letters is from 
Publications of the Narragansett Club, Vol. VI (Providence, R. I., 1874), 
edited by John Russell Bartlett. | 


LETTERS OF ROGER WILLIAMS 


To HIS MUCH HONORED GOVERNOR JOHN WINTHROP. 


Providence, [April 16, 1638.] 

UCH HONORED siR,—I kindly thank you for your loving inclination 
M to receive my late protestation concerning myself, ignorant of 
Mr. Greene’s letter. I desire unfeignedly, to rest in my appeal to the 
Most High in what we differ, as I dare not but hope you do: it is no 
small grief that I am otherwise persuaded, and that sometimes you say 
(and I can say no less) that we differ: the fire will try your works and” 
mine: the Lord Jesus help us to make sure of our persons that we seek 
Jesus that was crucified: however it is and ever shall be (the Lord 
assisting) my endeavor to pacify and allay, where I meet with rigid 
and censorious spirits, who not only blame your actions but doom 
your persons... 

Sir, there will be new Heavens and a new Earth shortly but no more 
Sea. (Revel. 21. 2.) the most holy God be pleased to make us willing 
now to bear the tossings, dangers and calamities of this sea, and to 
seal up to use upon his own grounds, a great lot in the glorious state 
approaching. So craving pardon for prolixity, with mine and my wife’s 
due respect to Mrs. Winthrop, Mr. Deputy, Mr. Bellingham, &c., I 
rest 

Your worship’s desirous to be ever yours unfeigned 

Roger Williams. 


476 The Puritans 


THE CORRESPONDENCE OF ROGER WILLIAMS AND 
Mrs. SADLEIR, 1652. 


[Mrs. Sadleir was the daughter of the famous lawyer, Sir Edward 
Coke, who had been the benefactor and patron of Roger Williams 
before Williams came to New England. Though the father had been 
one of the great maintainers of Parliamentary government against the 
absolutism of James I, the daughter had obviously come to feel by 
1652 that constitutional opposition had long since passed into overt | 
rebellion, and no longer held with any of the programs of the Pro- 
tectorate. When Williams came to England in 1652, having published 
opinions that were identified with the most radical wing of the revo- 
lutionary forces, he innocently attempted to pay his respects to the 
daughter of his old friend, and the following correspondence ensued. ] 


For my much honored kind friend, Mistress Sadler, at Stondon, 
Puckridge, these. 


From my lodgings near St. Martin’s, at Mr. Davis his house, at the sign 


of the Swan. [London, 1652] 


Y MUCH HONORED FRIEND, MRS. SADLEIR,—The never-dying honor 
M and respect which I owe to that dear and honorable root and his 
branches, and, amongst the rest, to your much honored self, have em- 
boldened me, once more, to enquire after your dear husband’s and 
your life, and health, and welfare. This last winter I landed, once 
more, in my native country, being sent over from some parts of New 
England with some addresses to the Parliament. 

My very great business, and my very great straits of time, and my 
very great journey homeward to my dear yoke-fellow and many chil- 
dren, I greatly fear will not permit me to present my ever-obliged duty 
and service to you, at Stondon, especially if it please God that I may 
despatch my affairs to depart with the ships within this fortnight. I 
am, therefore, humbly bold to crave your favorable consideration, and 
pardon, and acceptance, of these my humble respects and remem- 
brances. It hath pleased the Most High to carry me on eagles’ wings, 
through mighty labors, mighty hazards, mighty sufferings, and to 
vouchsafe to use, so base an instrument—as I humbly hope—to glorify 
himself, in many of my trials and sufferings, both amongst the English 
and barbarians. | 

I have been formerly, and since I landed, occasioned to take up the 
two-edged sword of God’s Spirit, the word of God, and to appear in 
public in some contests against the ministers of Old and New England, 
as touching the true ministry of Christ and the soul freedoms of the 


Biographies and Letters 477 


people. Since I landed, I have published two or three things, and have 
a large discourse at the press, but ’tis controversial, with which I will 
not trouble your meditations; only I crave the boldness to send you 
a plain and peaceable discourse, of my own personal experiments, 
which, in a letter to my dear wife—upon the occasion of her great 
sickness near death—TI sent her, being absent myself amongst the In- 
dians.1 And being greatly obliged to Sir Henry Vane, junior—once 
Governor of New England—and his lady, I was persuaded to publish 
it in her name, and humbly to present your honorable hands with 
one or two of them. I humbly pray you to cast a serious eye on the 
holy Scriptures, on which the examinations are grounded. I could 
have dressed forth the matter like some sermons which, formerly, I 
used to pen. But the Father of lights hath long since shown me the 
vanity and soul-deceit of such points and flourishes. I desire to know 
nothing, to profess nothing, but the Son of God. the King of souls 
and consciences; and I desire to be more thankful for a reproof for 
ought I affirm than for applause and commendation. I have been oft 
glad in the wilderness of America, to have been reproved for going 
in a wrong path, and to be directed by a naked Indian boy in my 
travels. How much more should we rejoice in the wounds of such as 
we hope love us in Christ Jesus, than in the deceitful kisses of soul- 
deceiving and soul-killing friends. 

My much honored friend, that man of honor, and wisdom, and 
piety, your dear father, was often pleased to call me his son; and truly 
it was as bitter as death to me when Bishop Laud pursued me out of 
this land, and my conscience was persuaded against the national church 
and ceremonies, and bishops, beyond the conscience of your dear 
Father. I say it was as bitter as death to me, when I rode Windsor way, 
to take ship at Bristow, and saw Stoke House, where the blessed man 
was; and I then durst not acquaint him with my conscience, and my 
flight. But how many thousand times since have I had honorable and 
precious remembrance of his person, and the life, the writings, the 
speeches, and the examples of that glorious light. And I may truly say, 
that beside my natural inclination to study and activity, his example, 
instruction, and encouragement, have spurred me on to a more than 
ordinary, industrious, and patient course in my whole course hitherto. 

What I have done and suffered—and I hope for the truth of God 
according to my conscience—in Old and New England, I should be 
a fool in relating, for I desire to say, not to King David—as once 
Mephibosheth—but to King Jesus, “What is thy servant, that thou 
shouldest look upon such a dead dog?” And I would not tell yourself 


478 The Puritans 


of this, but that you may acknowledge some beams of his holy wisdom 
and goodness, who hath not suffered all your own and your dear 
father’s smiles to have been lost upon so poor and despicable an object. 
I confess I have many adversaries, and also many friends, and divers 
eminent. It hath pleased the general ? himself to send for me, and to 
entertain many discourses with me at several times; which, as it magni- 
fies his christian nobleness and courtesy, so much more doth it magnify 
His infinite mercy and goodness, and wisdom, who hath helped me, . 
poor worm, to sow that seed in doing and suffering—I hope for God— 
that as your honorable father was wont to say, he that shall harrow 
what I have sown, must rise early. And yet I am a worm and nothing, 
and desire only to find my all in the blood of an holy Savior, in whom 


I desire to be Your honored, 


Most thankful, and faithful servant, 


My humble respects presented to Mr. Sadleir. Roger Williams. 


From Mrs. Sadleir to Roger Williams. 


Mr. Williams,—Since it hath pleased God to make the prophet 
David’s complaint ours (Ps. Ixxix.): ““O God, the heathen,”’ &c., and 
that the Apostle St. Peter has so long ago foretold, in his second epistle, 
the second chapter, by whom these things should be occasioned, I have 
given over reading many books, and, therefore, with thanks, have 
~ returned yours. Those that I now read, besides the Bible, are, first, 
the late King’s book; Hooker’s Ecclesiastical Polity; Reverend Bishop 
Andrew’s Sermons, with his other divine meditations; Dr. Jer. Taylor’s 
works; and Dr. Tho. Jackson upon the Creed.? Some of these my 
dear father was a great admirer of, and would often call them the 
glorious lights of the church of England. These lights shall be my 
guide; I wish they may be yours: for your new lights that are so much 
cried up, I believe, in the conclusion, they will prove but dark lanterns: 


therefore I dare not meddle with them. 
Your friend in the old way, 


Anne Sadleir. 


For his much honored, kind friend, Mrs. Anne 
Sadleir, at Stondon, in Hartfordshire, 
near Puckridge. 
My much honored, kind Friend, Mrs. Sadleir,— 
... You were pleased to direct me to divers books, for my satis- 
faction. I have carefully endeavoured to get them, and some I have 


- Biographies and Letters 479 


gotten; and upon my reading, I purpose, with God’s help, to render 
you an ingenuous and candid account of my thoughts, result, &c. At 
present, I am humbly bold to pray your judicious and loving eye to 
one of mine. 

Tis true, I cannot but expect your distaste of it; and yet my cordial 
desire of your soul’s peace here, and eternal, and of contributing the 
least mite toward it, and my humble respects to that blessed root of 
which you spring, force me to tender my acknowledgments, which if 
received or rejected, my cries shall never cease that one eternal life 
may give us meeting, since this present minute hath such bitter 
partings. 

For the scope of this rejoinder, if it please the Most High to direct 
your eye to a glance on it, please you to know, that at my last being in 
England, I wrote a discourse entitled, “The Bloudy Tenent of Persecution 
for Cause of Conscience.” I bent my charge against Mr. Cotton especially, 
your standard bearer of New English ministers. That discourse he 
since answered, and calls his book, ‘‘ The Bloody Tenent made white in the 
Blood of the Lamb.” This rejoinder of mine, as I humbly hope, unwasheth 
his washings, and proves that in soul matters no weapons but soul 
weapons are reaching and effectual. 

I am your most unworthy servant, yet unfeignedly respective, 

Roger Williams. 


Mrs. Sadleir in reply to Roger Williams. 


Sir,—I thank God my blessed parents bred me up in the old and 
best religion, and it is my glory that I am a member of the Church of 
England, as it was when all the reformed churches gave her the right 
hand. When I cast mine eye upon the frontispiece of your book, and 
saw it entitled “The Bloudy Tenent,” I durst not adventure to look 
into it, for fear it should bring into my memory the much blood that 
has of late been shed, and which I would fain forget; therefore I do, 
with thanks, return it. I cannot call to mind any blood shed for con- 
science:—some few that went about,to make a rent in our once well- 
governed church were punished, but none suffered death. But this I 
know, that since it has been left to every man’s conscience to fancy 
what religion he list, there has more christian blood been shed than 
was in the ten persecutions. And some of that blood, will, I fear, 
cry till the day of judgment. But you know what the Scripture says, 
that when there was no king in Israel, every man did that which was 
right in his own eyes,—but what became of that, the sacred story will 
tell you. 


480 The Puritans 


Thus entreating you to trouble me no more in this kind, and wishing 
you a good journey to your charge in New Providence, I rest 
Your Friend in the Old and Best Way. 


From Roger Williams to Mrs. Sadleir. 


My honored, kind Friend, Mrs. Sadleir,— 

... That you admire the king’s book, and Bp. Andrews his sermons, 
and Hooker’s Polity, &c., and profess them to be your lights and guides, 
and desire them mine, and believe the new lights will prove dark 
lanterns, &c. I am far from wondering at it, for all this have I done 
myself, until the Father of Spirits mercifully persuaded mine to swal- 
low down no longer without chewing: to chew no longer without 
tasting; to taste no longer without begging the Holy Spirit of God 
to enlighten and enliven mine against the fear of men, tradition of 
fathers, or the favor or custom of any men or times... . 

I have read those books you mention, and the king’s book, which 
commends two of them, Bishop Andrews’s and Hooker’s—yea, and a 
third also, Bishop Laud’s: and as for the king, I knew his person, 
vicious, a swearer from his youth, and an oppressor and persecutor 
of good men (to say nothing of his own father), and the blood of so 
many hundred thousands English, Irish, Scotch, French, lately charged 
upon him. Against his and his blasphemous father’s cruelties, your own 
dear father, and many precious men, shall rise up shortly and cry for 
vengeance. ... 

The Turks—so many millions of them—prefer their Mahomet before 
Christ Jesus, even upon such carnal and worldly respects, and yet 
avouch themselves to be the only Muselmanni or true believers. The 
catholics account us heretics, diabloes, &c.; and why? but because 
we worship not such a golden Christ and his glorious vicar and lieu- 
tenant. The several sects of common protestants content themselves 
with a traditional worship, and boast they are no Jews, no Turks, 
(Matt. vii. 21, 22.) nor catholics, and yet forget their own formal dead 
faith, (2 Tim. iii. 9.) dead hope, dead joys, and yet, nescio vos, I know 
you not, depart from me, which shall be thundered out to many gallant 
professors and considents, who have held out a lamp and form of re- 
ligion, yea, and possibly of godliness too, and yet have denied the power 
and life of it.... 

God’s Spirit persuadeth the hearts of his true servants: First, to be 
willing to be searched by him, which they exceedingly beg of him, 
with holy fear of self-deceit and hypocrisy. 

Second. To be led by him in the way everlasting: (Ps. cxxxix.), 


~ 


Biographies and Letters 481 


whether it seem old in respect of institution, or new in respect of restora- 
tion. This I humbly pray for your precious soul, of the God and Father of 
mercies, even your eternal joy and salvation. Earnestly desirous to be in 
the old way, which is the narrow way, which leads to life, which few find. 
Your most humble, though most unworthy servant, 
Roger Williams. 


My honored Friend, since you please not to read mine, let me pray 
leave to request your reading of one book of your own authors. I mean 
the “Liberty of Prophesying,”’ penned by (so called) Dr. Jer. Taylor. 
In the which is excellently asserted the toleration of different religions, 
yea, in a respect, that of the papists themselves, which is a new way 
of soul freedom, and yet is the old way of Christ Jesus, as all his holy 
Testament declares. 

I also humbly wish that you may please to read over impartially 
Mr. Milton’s answer to the king’s book.* 


Mrs. Sadleir in reply to Roger Williams. 


Mr. Williams,—I thought my first letter would have given you so 
much satisfaction, that, in that kind, I should never have heard of 
you any more; but it seems you have a face of brass, so that you cannot 
blush. But since you press me to it, I must let you know, as I did before 
(Ps. lxxix.), that the Prophet David there complains that the heathen 
had defiled the holy temple, and made Jerusalem a heap of stones. 
And our blessed Saviour, when he whipped the buyers and sellers out 
of the temple, told them that they had made his Father’s house a den 
of thieves. ‘Those were but material temples, and commanded by God 
to be built, and his name there to be worshipped. The living temples 
are those that the same prophet, in the psalm before mentioned (verse 
the 2nd and 3grd), ““The dead bodies of thy servants have they given 
to the fowls of the air, and the flesh of thy saints to the beasts of the 
land. Their blood have they shed like water,”” &c. And these were the 
living temples whose loss the prophet so much laments; and had he 
lived in these times, he would have doubled these lamentations. For the 
foul and false aspersions you have cast upon that king, of ever-blessed 
memory, Charles, the martyr, I protest I trembled when I read them, 
and none but such a villain as yourself would have wrote them... 

For Milton’s book, that you desire I should read, if I be not mistaken, 


‘that is he that has wrote a book of the lawfulness of divorce; and, if 


report says true, he had, at that time, two or three wives living. This, 
perhaps, were good doctrine in New England; but it is most abominable 


482 | The Puritans 


in Old England. For his book that he wrote against the late king that 
you would have me read, you should have taken notice of God’s 
judgment upon him, who stroke him with blindness, and, as I have 
heard, he was fain to have the help of one Andrew Marvell,> or else 
he could not have finished that most accursed libel. God has began his © 
judgment upon him here—his punishment will be hereafter in hell. . . . 

I cannot conclude without putting you in mind how dear a lover and 
great an admirer my father was of the liturgy of the church of England, 
and would often say, no reform church had the like. He was constant 
to it, both in his life and at his death. I mean to walk in his steps; and, 
truly, when I consider who were the composers of it, and how they 
sealed the truth of it with their blood, I cannot but wonder why it 
should now of late be thus contemned. By what I have now writ, you 
know how I stand affected. I will walk as directly to heaven as I can, 
in which place, if you will turn from being a rebel, and fear God and 
obey the king, there is hope I may meet you there; howsoever, trouble 
me no more with your letters, for they are very troublesome to her 
that wishes you in the place from whence you came. y 

Anne Sadleir. 

[Near the direction, on the outside, of Williams’s first letter, there 
is the following note by Mrs. Sadleir:]— . 

This Roger Williams, when he was a youth, would, in a short hand, 
take sermons and speeches in the Star Chamber and present them to 
my dear father. He, seeing so hopeful a youth, took such liking to him 
that he sent him in to Sutton’s Hospital, and he was the second that 
was placed there; full little did he think that he would have proved 
such a rebel to God, the king, and his country. I leave his letters, that, 
if ever he has the face to return into his native country, Tyburn may 
give him welcome. 


To Joun WINTHROP, JR. 


To my honored, kind friend, Mr. Fohn Winthrop, [Fr.] Governor, 
at Hartford, on Connecticut. 


Providence, 6, 12, 59-60. [6th February, 1660. |] 


Sir,—Loving respects to yourself and Mrs. Winthrop, &c. Your lov- 
ing lines in this cold, dead season, were as a cup of your Connecticut 
cider, which we are glad to hear abounds with you, or of that western 
metheglin, which you and I have drunk at Bristol together, &c. In- 
deed, it is the wonderful power and goodness of God, that we are 
preserved in our dispersions among these wild, barbarous wretches. . . . 

Sir, you were, not long since, the son of two noble fathers, Mr. John 


Biographies and Letters | 483 


Winthrop and Mr. H. Peters.® It is said they are both extinguished. 
Surely, I did ever, from my soul, honor and love them even when 
their judgments led them to afflict me. Yet the Father of Spirits spares 
us breath, and I rejoice, Sir, that your name (amongst the New Eng- 
land magistrates printed, to the Parliament and army, by H. Nort. 
Rous, &c.,) is not blurred, but rather honored, for your prudent and 
moderate hand in the late Quakers’ trials amongst us. And it is said, 
that in the late Parliament, yourself were one of the three in nomina- 
- tion for General Governor over New England, which however that 
design ripened not, yet your name keeps up a high esteem, &c. I have 
seen your hand to a letter to this colony, as to your late purchase of 
some land at Narragansett. The sight of your hand hath quieted some 
jealousies amongst us, that the Bay, by this purchase, designed some 
‘prejudice to the liberty of conscience amongst us. We are in consulta- 
tions how to answer that letter, and my endeavor shall be, with God’s 
help, to welcome, with both our hands and arms, your interest in these 
_ parts, though we have no hope to enjoy your personal residence amongst 
us. I rejoice to hear that you gain, by new plantations, upon this 
wilderness. I fear that many precious souls will be glad to hide their 
heads, shortly, in these parts. Your candle and mine draws towards 
its end. The Lord graciously help us to shine in light and love uni- 
_ versally, to all that fear his name, without that monopoly of the affec- 
tion to such of our own persuasion only; for the common enemy, the 
Romish wolf, is very high in resolution, and hope, and advantage to 
make a prey on all, of all sorts that desire to fear God. Divers of our 
neighbors thankfully re-salute you We have buried, this winter, 
Mr. Olney’s son, whom, formerly, you heard to be afflicted with a 
lethargy. He lay two or three days wholly senseless, until his last groans. 
My youngest son, Joseph, was troubled with a spice of an epilepsy. 
We used some remedies, but it hath pleased God, by his taking of 
tobacco, perfectly, as we hope, to cure him. Good Mr. Parker, of Bos- 
ton, passing from Prudence Island, at his coming on shore, on Seekonk 
land, trod awry upon a stone or stick, and fell down, and broke the 
small bone of his leg. He hath lain by of it all this winter, and the last 
week was carried to Boston in a horse litter. Some fears there was of a 
gangrene. But, Sir, I use too much boldness and prolixity. I shall now 


only subscribe myself 
Your unworthy friend, 


Roger Williams. 


Sir, my loving respects to Mr. Stone, Mr. Lord, Mr. Allen, Mr. Web- 
ster, and other loving friends. 


484 The Puritans 


To Major Mason 


[In 1670 Connecticut and Rhode Island were involved in a dis- 
pute concerning the boundary between the two colonies; committees 
were appointed and in May held a stormy conference that produced 
no agreement; Connecticut men thereupon seized control of the town 
of Westerly. The Rhode Island government retaliated by capturing 
some of the invaders and sending them to jail at Newport. At this 
juncture Williams wrote the following letter to Major Mason, one of, 
the magistrates of Connecticut: ] 

Providence, June 22, 1670. 


Major Mason,—My honored, dear and ancient friend, my due re- 
spects and earnest desires to God, for your eternal peace, &c. 

I crave your leave and patience to present you with some few con- 
siderations, occasioned by the late transactions between your colony 
and ours. The last year you were pleased, in one of your lines to me, 
to tell me that you longed to see my face once more before you died. 
I embraced your love, though I feared my old lame bones, and yours, 
had arrested traveling in this world, and therefore I was and am ready 
to lay hold on all occasions of writing, as I do at present. 

The occasion, I confess, is sorrowful, because I see yourselves, with 
others, embarked in a resolution to invade and despoil your poor 
countrymen, in a wilderness, and your ancient friends, of our temporal 
and soul liberties. 

It is sorrowful, also, because mine eye beholds a black and doleful 
train of grievous, and, I fear, bloody consequences, at the heel of this 
business, both to you and us. The Lord is righteous in all our afflictions, 
that is a maxim; the Lord is gracious to all oppressed, that is another; 
he is most gracious to the soul that cries and waits on him; that is 
silver, tried in the fire seven times. 

Sir, I am not out of hopes, but that while your aged eyes and mine 
are yet in their orbs, and not yet sunk down into their holes of rotten- 
ness, we shall leave our friends and countrymen, our children and 
relations, and this land, in peace, behind us. To this end, Sir, please 
you with a calm and steady and a Christian hand, to hold the balance 
and to weigh these few considerations, in much love and due respect 
presented: 

First. When I was unkindly and unchristianly, as I believe, driven 
from my house and land and wife and children, (in the midst of a 
New England winter, now about thirty-five years past,) at Salem, that 
ever honored Governor, Mr. Winthrop, privately wrote to me to steer 
my course to Narragansett Bay and Indians, for many high and 


Biographies and Letters 485 


heavenly and public ends, encouraging me, from the freeness of the 
place from any English claims or patents. I took his prudent motion 
as a hint and voice from God, and waving all other thoughts and 
motions, I steered my course from Salem (though in winter snow, 
which I feel yet) unto these parts, wherein I may say Peniel, that is, 
I have seen the face of God. 

Second, I first pitched, and began to build and plant at Seekonk, now 
Rehoboth, but I received a letter from my ancient friend, Mr. Winslow,’ 
then Governor of Plymouth, professing his own and others love and 
respect to me, yet lovingly advising me, since I was fallen into the edge 
of their bounds, and they were loath to displease the Bay, to remove 
but to the other side of the water, and then, he said, I had the country 
free before me, and might be as free as themselves, and we should be 
loving neighbors together. These were the joint understandings of these 
two eminently wise and Christian Governors and others, in their day, 
together with their counsel and advice as to the freedom and vacancy 
of this place, which in this respect, and many other Providences of 
the Most Holy and Only Wise, I called Providence. 

Third. Sometime after, the Plymouth great Sachem, (Ousamaquin,) 
upon occasion, affirming that Providence was his land, and therefore 
Plymouth’s land, and some resenting it, the then prudent and godly 
Governor, Mr. Bradford, and others of his godly council, answered, 
that if, after due examination, it should be found true what the bar- 
barian said, yet having to my loss of a harvest that year, been now 
(though by their gentle advice) as good as banished from Plymouth 
as from the Massachusetts, and I had quietly and patiently departed 
from them, at their motion to the place where now I was, I should 
not be molested and tossed up and down again, while they had breath 
in their bodies; and surely, between those, my friends of the Bay and 
Plymouth, I was sorely tossed, for one fourteen weeks, in a bitter winter 
season, not knowing what bread or bed did mean, beside the yearly 
loss of no small matter in my trading with English and natives, being 
debarred from Boston, the chief mart and port of New England. God 
knows that many thousand pounds cannot repay the very temporary 
losses I have sustained. It lies upon the Massachusetts and me, yea, 
and other colonies joining with them, to examine, with fear and trem- 
bling, before the eyes of flaming fire, the true cause of all my sorrows 
and sufferings. It pleased the Father of spirits to touch many hearts, 
dear to him, with some relentings; amongst which, that great and 
pious soul, Mr. Winslow, melted, and kindly visited me, at Providence, 
and put a piece of gold into the hands of my wife, for our supply. 


486 The Puritans 


Fourth. When the next year after my banishment, the Lord drew the 
bow of the Pequod war against the country, in which, Sir, the Lord 
made yourself, with others, a blessed instrument of peace to all New 
England, I had my share of service to the whole land in that Pequod 
business, inferior to very few that acted, for, 

1. Upon letters received from the Governor and Council at Boston, 
requesting me to use my utmost and speediest endeavors to break and 
hinder the league labored for by the Pequods against the Mohegans, 
and Pequods against the English, (excusing the not sending of company 
and supplies, by the haste of the business,) the Lord helped me immedi- 
ately to put my life into my hand, and, scarce acquainting my wife, to 
ship myself, all alone, in a poor canoe, and to cut through a stormy wind, 
with great seas, every minute in hazard of life, to the Sachem’s house. 

2. Three days and nights my business forced me to lodge and mix 
with the bloody Pequod ambassadors, whose hands and arms, me- 
thought, wreaked with the blood of my countrymen, murdered and 
massacred by them on Connecticut river, and from whom I could not 
but nightly look for their bloody knives at my own throat also.... 

9g. However you satisfy yourselves with the Pequod conquest, with 
the sealing of your charter some weeks before ours; with the complaints 
of particular men to your colony; yet upon a due and serious examina- 
tion of the matter, in the sight of God, you will find the business at 
bottom to be, 

First, a depraved appetite after the great vanities, dreams and 
shadows of this vanishing life, great portions of land, land in this wilder- 
ness, as if men were in as great necessity and danger for want of great 
portions of land, as poor, hungry, thirsty seamen have, after a sick 
and stormy, a long and. starving passage. ‘This is one of the gods of 
New England, which the living and most high Eternal will destroy 
and famish. | 

2. An unneighborly and unchristian intrusion upon us, as being the 
weaker, contrary to your laws, as well as ours, concerning purchasing 
of lands without the consent of the General Court... . 

From these violations and intrusions arise the complaint of many 
privateers, not dealing as they would be dealt with, according to law 
of nature, the law of the prophets and Christ Jesus, complaining against 
others, in a design, which they themselves are delinquents and wrong 
doers. I could aggravate this many ways with Scripture rhetoric and 
similitude, but I see need of anodynes, (as physicians speak,) and not 
of irritations. Only this I must crave leave to say, that it looks like a 
prodigy or monster, that countrymen among savages in a wilderness; 


Biographies and Letters 487 


that professors of God and one Mediator, of an eternal life, and that 
this is like a dream, should not be content with those vast and large 
tracts which all the other colonies have, (like platters and tables full 
of dainties,) but pull and snatch away their poor neighbors’ bit or 
crust; and a crust it is, and a dry, hard one, too, because of the natives’ 
continual troubles, trials and vexations. 

10. Alas! Sir, in calm midnight thoughts, what are these leaves and 
flowers, and smoke and shadows, and dreams of earthly nothings, 
about which we poor fools and children, as David saith, disquiet our- 
selves in vain? Alas? what is all the scuffling of this world for, but, 
come, will -you smoke it? What are all the contentions and wars of this 
world about, generally, but for greater dishes and bowls of porridge, 
of which, if we believe God’s Spirit in Scripture, Esau and Jacob were 
types? Esau will part with the heavenly birthright for his supping, after 
his hunting, for god belly: and Jacob will part with porridge for an 
eternal inheritance. O Lord, give me to make Jacob’s and Mary’s 
choice, which shall never be taken from me. 

11. How much sweeter is the counsel of the Son of God, to mind 
first the matters of his kingdom; to take no care for to-morrow; to 
pluck out, cut off and fling away right eyes, hands and feet, rather than 
to be cast whole into hell-fire; to consider the ravens and the lilies, 
whom a heavenly Father so clothes and feeds; and the counsel of his 
servant Paul, to roll our cares, for this life also, upon the most high 
Lord, steward of his people, the eternal God: to be content with food 
and raiment; to mind not our own, but every man the things of another; 
yea, and to suffer wrong, and part with what we judge is right, yea, 
our lives, and (as poor women martyrs have said) as many as there be 
hairs upon our heads, for the name of God and the son of God his sake. 
This is humanity, yea, this is Christianity. The rest is but formality 
and picture, courteous idolatry and Jewish and Popish blasphemy 
against the Christian religion, the Father of spirits and his Son, the 
Lord Jesus. Besides, Sir, the matter with us is not about these children’s 
toys of land, meadows, cattle, government, &c. But here, all over 
this colony, a great number of weak and distressed souls, scattered, are 
flying hither from Old and New England, the Most High and Only 
Wise hath, in his infinite wisdom, provided this country and this corner 
as a shelter for the poor and persecuted, according to their several 
persuasions. ... 

16. Sir, I lament that such designs should be carried on at such a 
time, while we are stripped and whipped, and are still under (the whole 
country) the dreadful rods of God, in our wheat, hay, corn, cattle, 


488 The Puritans 


shipping, trading, bodies and lives; when on the other side of the water, 
all sorts of consciences (yours and ours) are frying in the Bishops’ pan 
and furnace; when the French and Romish Jesuits, the firebrands of — 
the world for their god belly sake, are kindling at our back, in this: 
country, especially with the Mohawks and Mohegans, against us, of 
which I know and have daily information. 

17. Ifany please to say, is there no medicine for this malady? Must 
the nakedness of New England, like some notorious strumpet, be prosti- 
tuted to the blaspheming eyes of all nations? Must we be put to plead 
before his Majesty, and consequently the Lord Bishops, our common 
enemies, &c. I answer, the Father of mercies and God of all consola- 
tions hath graciously discovered to me, as I believe, a remedy, which, 
if taken, will quiet all minds, yours and ours, will keep yours and ours 
in quiet possession and enjoyment of their lands, which you all have 
so dearly bought and purchased in this barbarous country, and so 
long possessed amongst these wild savages; will preserve you both in 
the liberties and honors of your charters and governments, without 
the least impeachment of yielding one to another; with a strong curb 
. also to those wild barbarians and all the barbarians of this country, 
without troubling of compromisers and arbitrators between you; with- 
out any delay, or long and chargeable and grievous address to our 
King’s Majesty, whose gentle and serene soul must needs be afflicted 
to be troubled again with us. If you please to ask me what my pre- 
scription is, I will not put you off to Christian moderation or Christian 
humility, or Christian prudence, or Christian love, or Christian self- 
denial, or Christian contention or patience. For I design a civil, a 
humane and political medicine, which, if the God of Heaven please 
to bless, you will find it effectual to all the ends I have proposed. Only 
I must crave your pardon, both parties of you, if I judge it not fit to 
discover it at present. I know you are both of you hot; I fear myself, 
also. If both desire, in a loving and calm spirit, to enjoy your rights, 
I promise you, with God’s help, to help you to them, in a fair, and 
sweet and easy way. My receipt will not please you all. If it should so 
please God to frown upon us that you should not like it, I can but 
humbly mourn, and say with the prophet, that which must perish 
must perish. And as to myself, in endeavoring after your temporal and 
spiritual peace, I humbly desire to say, if I perish, I perish. It is but a 
shadow vanished, a bubble broke, a dream finished. Eternity will pay 
for all. 

Sir, I am your old and true friend and servant, 

Roger Williams. 


Biographies and Letters 489 


INCREASE MATHER, 1639-1723 


[For life of Increase Mather see p. 334. This text is from The Life 
and Death of that Reverend Man in God, Mr. Richard Mather (Cambridge, 


1670), pp. 8-11, 25-33.] 


THE LIFE OF RICHARD MATHER 


EING as hath been related, setled in the Ministry at Toxteth, he 
B resolved to change his single condition: And accordingly he be- 
came a Suitor to Mrs. Katharine Hoult, Daughter to Edmund Hoult Esq; 
of Bury in Lancashire. She had (and that deservedly) the repute of a 
very godly and prudent Maid. The Motion for several years met with 
Obstructions, by reason of her Fathers not being affected towards 
Non-conformable Puritans: But at last he gave his Consent that 
Mr. Mather should marry his Daughter; the Match therefore was Con- 
summated Septemb. 29. 1624. God made her to become a rich Blessing 
to him, continuing them together for the space of above 30 years. By 
her God gave him six Sons; four whereof (vz. Samuel, Timothy, Nathaniel 
and Joseph) were born in England, and two (vz. Eleazar and Increase) 
in New-England. After his Marriage he removed his Habitation three 
miles from Toxteth, to Much-Woolton, having there purchased an House 
of his own; yet he was wont constantly Summer and Winter to Preach 
the Word at Toxteth upon the Lords-dayes. During his abode there, he 
was abundant in Labours in the Gospel: For every Lords-day he 
Preached twice at Toxteth, and once in a Fortnight on the Third day of 
the Week he kept a Lecture at the Town of Prescot. Also, faithful and 
powerful Preaching being then rare in those parts, he did frequently 
Preach upon the Holy dayes (as they are called) being often thereunto 
desired by godly Christians of other Parishes in that Country: And 
this he did, not as thinking that there was any Holiness in those times 
(or in any other day besides the Lords-day) beyond what belongs to 
every day; but because then there would be an opportunity of great 
Assemblies,! and it is good casting the Net where there is much Fish: 
for which cause it might be that the Apostles Preached mostly in Popu- 
lous Towns and Cities, and also (which suiteth with what we are 
speaking) on the Jewish Sabbaths after their abrogation as to any Re- 
ligious tye upon Conscience for their observation. Yea and besides all 
this, he often Preached at Funerals. It is true that Cartwright, Sherwood, 
Hildersham, and many other Renowned Non-Conformists, have scrupled 
Preaching Funerall Sermons; Also in some Reformed Churches that 


490 | The Puritans 


practice is wholly omitted, yea and Decrees of Councils have some- 
times been against it; but that hath been chiefly upon account of that 
Custome of Praising the dead upon such occasions, and that many times 


untruly: Which Custome (as many Learned men have observed) is , 


Ethnicall, having its rise from the Funeral Orations of the Heathen. 
Publicola made an excellent Oration in Praise of Brutus, which the People 
were so taken with, that it became a Custome that Famous men dying 
should be so praised, and when (as Plutarch saith in the Life of Camillus) 
the Women amongst the Romans parted with their Golden Ornaments 
for the Publick Good, the Senate decreed, That it should be lawful to 
make Funeral Orations for them also. Hine mortuos laudandi mos fluxit 
quem nos hodié servamus.* Pol. Verg. de Rer. Invent. lib. 3. cap. 10. Nor indeed 
was this Rite practised in the Church afore the Apostacy began. Vide 
Magd. Cent. 4. Cap. 6. wherefore this faithful Servant of the Lord avoided 
that practice, his speech at Funerals being taken up not with Praising 


the Dead, but with Instructing the Living concerning Death, the Resurrec- . 


tion, the Judgement to come, and the like seasonable Truths. Thus did 


he Preach the Word, being instant in season and out of season; reprov-_ 


ing, rebuking, exhorting, with all long-suffering and doctrine. In his 
publick Ministry in England he went over 2 Samuel, Chap. 24. Psalm 4. 
and Psalm 16. Proverbs, Chap. 1. Isaiah, Chap. 1. and Chap. 6. Luke, 22 
and 23 Chapters. Romans, Chap. 8. 2 Epist. to Timothy; 2. Epist. of Fohn; 
and the Epistle of Fude. 

After that he had thus painfully and faithfully spent fifteen years 
in the Work of the Ministry, He that holds the Stars in his right hand, 
had more work for him to do elswhere; and therefore the rage of 
Satan and wrath of men must be suffered to break forth, untill this 
choice Instrument had his mouth stopped in unrighteousness. The Lec- 
ture which he kept at Prescot caused him to be much taken notice of, 
and so was the more unto the Adversaries of the Truth an object of 
Envy. Magnam famam & magnam quietem eodem tempore nemo potest acquirere. 
Quint. Wherefore Complaints being made against him for Non- 
Conformity to the Ceremonies, he was by the Prelates Suspended. This 
was in August, Anno 1633. Under this Suspension he continued untill 
November following: But then, by means of the Intercession of some 
Gentlemen in Lancashire, and by the Influence of Simon Byby (a near 
Alliance of the Bishops) he was restored again to his Publick Ministry. 
After his Restauration he more fully searched into, and also in his 
Ministry handled the Points of Church-Discipline. And God gave him 
in those dayes not onely to see, but also to Instruct others in the Sub- 
stance of the Congregationall-Way, which came to pass by his much 


~ 


ar eee nt a 
SAT ee ne 


Biographies and Letters AQ1 


reading of the holy Scriptures, and his being very conversant in the 
Writings of Cartwright, Parker, Baynes, and Ames.4 But this restored 
Liberty continued not long; for Anno 1634. Bishop Neal (he who was 
sometimes by King James pleasantly admonished of his Preaching 
Popery, because by his carriage he taught the people to pray for a 
blessing upon his dead Predecessor) being now become Archbishop of 
York, sent his Visitors into Lancashire; of whom Doctor Cousins (whose 
Cozening Devotions Mr. Pryn° hath made notorious to the world) was 
one: These Visitors being come into the Country... kept their 
Courts at Wigan; where, amongst many other unrighteous proceedings, 
-& having Mr. Mather convened before them, they passed a Sentence of 
Suspension against him, meerly for his Non-Conformity to the Inventions 
of men in the Worship of God. It was marvellous to see how God was 
with him, causing a Spirit of Courage and of Glory to rest upon him, 
and filling him with wisdome when he stood before those Judges, 
who were not willing that he should speak for himself, or declare the 
Reasons which convinced his Conscience of the unlawfulness of that 
Conformity which they required. Concerning the Lords presence with 
him at that time, himself doth in a Manuscript left in his Study thus 
express it: In the passages of that day, I have this to bless the Name of God for, 
that the terrour of their threatning words, of their Pursevants, and of the rest 
of their Pomp, did not so terrifie my minde, but that I could stand before them 
without being daunted in the least measure, but answered for my self such words 
of truth and soberness as the Lord put into my mouth, not being afraid of their 
faces ai all: which supporting and comforting presence of the Lord I count not 
much less mercy, then if I had been altogether preserved out of their hands. > 

Being thus silenced from Publick Preaching the Word, means was > 
again used by Mr. Mathers friends to obtain his Liberty; but all in vain. 
The Visitor asked how long he had been a Minister? Answer was 
made, That he had been in the Ministry fifteen years. And (said he) 
how often hath he worn the Surpless? Answer was returned, That he 
had never worn it. What (said the Visitor, swearing as he spake it) 
preach Fifteen years and never wear a Surpless? It had been better for him that 
he had gotten Seven Bastards. This was a Visitors judgement... . 

Wherefore the case being thus, he betook himself to a private life: 
and no hope being left of enjoying Liberty again in his Native Land; 
foreseeing also (Sapiens Divinat) © the approaching Calamities of England, 
he meditated a Removall into New-England. ... 

During the time of his Pilgrimage in New-England he under-went 
not so many Changes, az before that he had done; for he never removed 
his Habitation out of Dorchester, albeit he had once serious thoughts 


492 | The Puritans 


that way, by reason that his old people in Toxteth, after that the 
Eerarchy was deposed in England, sent to him, desiring his return to 
them: But Dorchester was in no wise willing to forgoe their interest in 


him, therefore he left them not. Nevertheless, he did in New-England | 


(as in a Wilderness might be expected) experience many Trials of 
his Faith and Patience. That which of outward Afflictions did most 
agrieve him, was the Death of his dear Wife, who had been for so 
many years the greatest outward Comfort and Blessing which he did 
enjoy: Which Affliction was the more grievous, in that she being a 
Woman of singular Prudence for the Management of Affairs, had 
taken off from her Husband all Secular Cares, so that he wholly de- 
voted himself to his Study, and to Sacred Imployments. After he had 
continued in the state of Widowhood a year and half, he again changed 
his Condition, and was Married to the pious Widow of that deservedly 
Famous Man of God Mr. John Cotton; 7 and her did God make a Blessing 
and a Comfort to him during the remainder of his dayes. 

Old Age now being come upon him, he was sensible of the Infirmities 
thereof, being in his latter years something thick of Hearing: Also 
(as it was with great <anchy) ® the sight in one of his Eyes failed, seven 
years before his Death. Yet God gave him Health of Body and Vigour 
of Spirit in a wonderful measure, so as that in fifty years together, he 
was not by Sickness detained so much as one Lords-day from Publick 
Labours. Which continued Health (as to Natural causes) proceeded 
partly from his strong Constitution of Body, and partly from. his 
accustoming himselfto a plain and wholsome Diet. Bona Diata est 
potior quovis Hippocrate.? He never made use of any Physician, nor was 
he ever in all his life sick of any acute Disease. Onely the two last years 
of his Life he was sorely afflicted with that Disease which some have 
called Flagellum Studiosorum, viz.1° The Stone, which at last brought him 
to an end of all his Labours and Sorrows. 

Concerning the Time and Manner of his Sickness and Death, thus 
it was. There being some Differences in Boston, Counsel from Neigh- 
bour-Churches was by some desired, to direct them in the Lord what 
should be done: Accordingly the Churches sent their Messengers; and 
Dorchester Church, amongst others, sent Mr. Mather their aged Teacher, 
who Assembled in Boston, April 13. 1669. He was, because of his Age, 
Gravity, Grace and Wisdome wherewith the Lord had endowed and 
adorned him, chosen the Moderator in that Reverend Assembly. For divers 
dayes after his being thus in Consultation, he enjoyed his Health as 
formerly, or rather better then for some time of late. But as Luther when 
Assembled in a Synod was surprized with a violent Fit of the Stone, 


Biographies and Letters 493 


whence he was forced to return home, his Friends having little hopes 
of his life; so it was with this holy man. For Apri] 16. 1669. he was in 
the night, being then in his Sons house in Boston, taken exceeding ill 
through a totall stoppage of his Urine. The next morning he therefore 
returned home to Dorchester. Great was the favour of God towards 
him, that he should be found about such a blessed Work as then he was 
ingaged in, for the Lord found him sincerely and earnestly endeavour- 
ing to be a Peace-maker. His being thus taken when at a Synod, brings 
to minde that of the German Phoenix; 


Viximus in Synodis, G jam mortemur in illis. 


Now as usually Providence so ordereth, that they who have been 
speaking all their lives long, shall not say much when they come to die: 
Blessed Hooker in his last Sickness, when Friends would have had him 
answered to some Enquiries which might have made for their Edifica- 
tion after he was gone, he referred them wholly to the things which 
he had taught them in his health, because then he had enough to do 
to grapple with his own bodily weakness, Gc. Neither did this good 
man speak much in his last Sickness either to Friends or to his Children. 
Onely his Son who is now Teacher of a Church in Boston, coming to 
visit his Father, and perceiving the Symptomes of Death to be upon 
- him, said unto him, Sir, 7f there be any speciall thing which you would recom- 
mend unto me to do, in case the Lord should spare me upon the Earth, after 
you are in Heaven, I would intreat you to express it. At the which, his Father 
making a little pause, and lifting up his eyes and hands to Heaven, 
replied, A speciall thing which I would commend to you, is, Care concerning 
the Rising Generation in this Country, that they be brought under the Government 
of Christ in his Church; and that when grown up and qualified, they have Baptism 
Sor their Children. I must confess I have been defective as to practise, yet I have 
publickly declared my judgement, and manifested my desires to practise that which 
I think ought to be attended, but the Dissenting of some in our Church discouraged 
me. I have thought that persons might have Right to Baptism, and yet not to the 
Lords Supper; and I see no cause to alter my judgement as to that particular. 
And I still think that persons qualified according to the Fifth Proposition of the 
late Synod-Book, have Right to Baptism for their Children.13 

His bodily Pains continued upon him untill April 22. when in the 
Morning his Son aforementioned, coming to visit him, asked his 
Father if he knew him; to whom he Replied that he did, but was not 
able to speak any more to him: Whereupon his Son saying, Now you 
will speedily be in the joy of your Lord; His Father lifted up his hands, but > 
could not speak. Not long after his Son again spoke to him, saying, 


at | The Puritans 


You will quickly see Fesus Christ, and that will make amends for all your pains 
and sorrows: At which words his Father again lifted up his hands; but 
after that he took notice of no person or thing, but continuing speech- . 
less untill about 10 f. P.M. he quietly breathed forth his last. Thus did 
that Light that had been shining in the Church above Fifty years, 
Expire. 

As he was a man faithful and fearing God above many, so the Lord 
shewed great faithfulness unto him, both in making him serviceable 
unto the last, yea and continuing the vigour of his Spirit, and power 
of his Ministry. Few men, though young, are known to Preach with 
such vigour as he did but ten dayes before his death. Also the Lord 
was faithful and gracious to him, in respect of his Children. It was a 
special token of Divine favour unto some of the Ancients, that their 
Sons after them succeeded in the Ministry; so was it with the Fathers 
of Gregory Nazianzen, Gregory Nyssen, Basil, Hilary, Gc. And the Lord 
cheered the heart of this his Servant in his old Age, by giving him to 
see most of his Sons imployed in the Ministry many years before their 
precious Father’s decease. He left four Sons in that Work; one of whom, 
viz. Mr. Eleazar Mather, late Pastor of the Church at Northampton in 
New-England, went to his rest about three Moneths after his Father, 
with him to sound forth the praises of God amongst the Spirits of just 
men made perfect. The other three are yet surviving, wz. Mr. Samuel 
Mather, Teacher of a Church in Dublin; Mr. Nathaniel Mather, late 
Minister of Barnstable in Devon, and since in Rotterdam in Holland; and 
Increase Mather of Boston in New-England. .. . 

His way of Preaching was plain, aiming to shoot his Arrows not over 
his peoples heads, but into their Hearts and Consciences. Whence he 
studiously avoided obscure phrases, Exotick words, or an unnecessary 
citation of Latine Sentences, which some men addict themselves to the 
use of. Mr. Dod was wont to say, That so much Latine was so much flesh 
in a Sermon: So did this humble man look upon the affectation of such 
things in a Popular Auditory to savour of Carnal wisdome. The Lord 
gave him an excellent faculty in making abstruse things plain, that in 
handling the deepest Mysteries he would accommodate himself to 
Vulgar Capacities, that even the meanest might learn something. He 
knew how to express xawd xowds kai xowd xawas.4 He would often 
use that Saying, Artis est celare Artem.5 And much approved that of 
Austin; If (said he) I preach Learnedly, then onely the Learned and not the 
Unlearned can understand and profit by me; but if I preach plainly, then Learned 
and Unlearned both can understand, so I may profit all. He was Mighty in the 
Scriptures: Whence Mr. Hooker would say of him, My Brother Mather 1s 


Biographies and Letters 495 


a mighty man. Also his usuall way of Delivery was very Powerful, 
Awakening, and Zealous; especially in his younger years, there being 
few men of so great strength of body as he, which together with his 
natural fervour of Spirit, being sanctified, made his Ministry the more 
powerful. And the Lord went forth with his Labours to the Conversion 
of many, both in England and in New-England. Yet though his way of 
Preaching was plain and zealous, it was moreover Substantial and very 
Judicious. Even in his beginning times, Mr. Gillebrand (a famous 
Minister in Lancashire; and the more famous, for that though he did 
exceedingly Stammer in his ordinary discourse, he would Pray and 
Preach as fluently as any man) once having heard him Preach, asked 
what his Name might be? And answer being made that his Name was 
Mather; Nay (said Mr. Gillebrand) call him Matter, for believe it this man 
hath Substance in him. Yea, such was his Solzdity of Judgement, that some 
who were his Opposites, yet did therefore greatly respect and honour 
him. Doctor Parr (then Bishop in the Isle of Man) having heard 
Mr. Mather was Silenced, lamented it, saying, Jf Mather be Stlenced I 
am sorry for it, for he was a solid man, and the Church of God hath then a 
great loss... . 

It might be said of him, as was said of that blessed Martyr, that he 
was sparing in his Diet, sparing in his Speech, most sparing of all of his Time. 
He was very diligent both as to duties of general and particular Calling, 
which are indeed the two Pillars upon which Religion stands. As to 
his general Calling; He was much in Prayer, especially in his Study, 
where he oft-times spent whole dayes with God in suing for a Blessing 
upon himself and Children, and upon the people to whom he was re- 
lated, and upon the whole Country where he lived. The Requests 
which upon such occasions he put up to God in Jesus Christ, and also 
how his heart was moved to believe that God heard him, he left (many 
of them) in writing amongst his private Papers, I suppose that so him- 
self might have recourse unto those Experiences in a time of darkness and 
Temptation; also that his Sons after him might see by their Fathers 
Example, what it is to walk before God. Now what a loss is it to the world 
when such a Righteous man is taken away! Well might Philo and 
Jerome weep bitterly, when they heard of the death of any such men, 
because it portended evil to the places where they had lived, and 
served God. As he was much in Prayer, so he was very frequent in 
Hearing the Word. It was his manner to attend several Lectures in 
Neighbour-Congregations, untill his Disease made him unable to ride; 
yea and usually even to his old Age (as did Mr. Hildersham *°) he took 
Notes from those whom he heard, professing that he found profit in it. 


496 | The Puritans 


As to his particular Calling, he was even from his youth a hard 
Student. Yea his minde was so intent upon his Work and Studies, that 
the very morning before he died, he importuned those Friends that. 
watched with him to help him into his Study: They urging that he was , 
not able to go so farre, he desired them to help him and try; which they 
did: but ere he was come to the door of his Lodging-room, I see (saith 
he) Lf am not able, yet I have not been in my Study several dayes, and 1s it not a 
lamentable thing that I should lose so much time? After his entrance upon 
the Ministry, he was not onely in England (as hath been said) but in 
New-England abundant in Labours: for except when he had an Assistant 
with him (which was seldome) he Preached twice every Lords-day; 
and a Lecture once a fortnight, besides many occasionall Sermons 
both in Publick and in Private. Also he was much exercised in answer- 
ing many practical Cases of Conscience, and in Polemical, especially 
Disciplinary Discourses. In his Publick Ministry in Dorchester he went 
over The Book of Genesis to Chap. 38. Psalm 16. The whole Book of the 
Prophet Kechariah. Matthews Gospel, to Chap. 15. 1. Epist. to Thess. Chap. 5. 
And the whole Second Epistle of Peter; his Notes whereon he reviewed, and 
Transcribed for the Press, not many years before his decease. 

Notwithstanding those rare Gifts and Graces wherewith the Lord 
had adorned him, he was exceeding low and little in his own eyes. 
Some have thought that his greatest errour was, that he did not 
magnifie his Office, as he might and sometimes should have done. 
If a man must erre, it is good erring on that hand. Humble enough, and 
good enough, was the frequent saying of a great Divine. And another 
observeth, That every man hath just as much and no more true worth in him, 
as he hath Humility. Austine being asked which was the most excellent 
grace, answered, Humility; and which was the next, answered, Humility; 
and which was the third, replied again, Humility. ‘That indeed is Com- 
prehensively All, being of great price in the sight of God; And if so, 
Mr. Mather was a man of much Reall Worth. 


COTTON MATHER, 1663-1728 


[For Cotton Mather’s life see p. 162. This text is from Magnalia 
Christi Americana (London, 1702), Book III. John Eliot was born at 
Widford, Herts, 1604; emigrated in 1631 and was ordained teacher of 
the church at Roxbury in 1632; he died May 21, 1690. As Mather’s 
account makes clear, he was a leader of New England Puritanism, not 
because like Cotton and Hooker he was a profound intellect, but be- 
cause he incarnated the Puritan ideal of saintly piety. ] 


Biographies and Letters 3 4Q7 


LIFE OF JOHN ELIOT 
Tue Brrts, AcE, AND Famity or Mr. Euror. 


HE INSPIRED Moses, relating the Lives of those Anti Diluvian 
Patriarchs, in whom the Church of God, and Line of Christ was 
continued, through the first Sixteen hundred Years of Time, recites 
little but their Birth, and their Age, and their Death, and their Sons 
and Daughters. If those Articles would satisfie the Appetites and En- 
quiries of such as come to read the Life of our Eliot, we shall soon have 
dispatch’d the Work now upon our Hands. 

The Age, with the Death of this Worthy Man, has been already ter- 
minated, in the Ninetieth Year of the present Century, and the Eighty 
sixth Year of his own Pilgrimage. And for his Birth, it was at a Town in 
England; the Name whereof I cannot presently recover; nor is it neces- 
sary for me to look back so far as the place of his Nativity; any more than 
*tis for me to recite the Vertues of his Parentage, of which he said, Vix 
ea nostra voco: | ‘Tho’ indeed the pious Education which they gave him, 
caused him in his Age, to write these Words: I do see that 1t was a great 
Favour of God unto me, to season my first Times with the Fear of God, the Word, 
and Prayer. — 

The Atlantick Ocean, like a River of Lethe, may easily cause us to forget 
many of the things that happened on the other side. Indeed the 
Nativity of such a Man, were an Honour worthy the Contention of as 
many Places, as laid their Claims unto the famous Homer’s: But whatever 
Places may challenge a share in the Reputation of having enjoy’d the 
first Breath of our Eliot, it is New-England that with most Right can call 
him Hers; his best Breath, and afterwards his last Breath was here; and 
here ’twas, that God bestow’d upon him Sons and Daughters. 

He came to New-England in the Month of November, A.D. 1631. 
among those blessed old Planters, which laid the Foundations of a 
remarkable Country, devoted unto the Exercise of the Protestant Re- 
ligion, in its purest and highest Reformation. He left behind him 
in England, a Vertuous young Gentlewoman, whom he had pursued 
and purposed a Marriage unto; and she coming hither the Year fol- 
lowing, that Marriage was consummated in the Month of October, 
A.D. 1632. 

This Wife of his Youth lived with him until she became to him also 
the Staff of his Age; and she left him not until about three or four Years 
before his own Departure to those Heavenly Regions, where they now 
together see Light. She was a Woman very eminent, both for Holiness — 
and Usefulness, and she excelled most of the Daughters that have done 


498 ‘ The Puritans 


vertuously. Her Name was Anne, and Gracious was her Nature. God made 
her a rich Blessing, not only to her Family, but also to her Neighbourhood; 
and when at last she died, I heard and saw her Aged Husband, who 
else very rarely wept, yet now with Tears over the Coffin, before the 
Good People, a vast Confluence of which were come to her Funeral, 
say, Here lies my dear, faithful, pious, prudent, prayerful Wife; I shall go to 
her, and she not return to me. My Reader will of his own accord excuse 
me, from bestowing any further Epitaphs upon that gracious Woman. .. . 


Mr. EwiotT’s EARLY CONVERSION, SACRED EMPLOYMENT, AND 
b) 2 
Just REMOVAL INTO AMERICA. 


But all that I have hitherto said, is no more than an entrance into 
the History of our Eliot. Such an Enoch as he, must have something 
more than these things recorded of him; his Walk with God, must be 
more largely laid before the World, as a thing that would bespeak us 
all to be Followers no less than we shall be Admirers of it. 

He had not passed many Turns in the World, before he knew the 
meaning of a saving Turn from the Vanities of an Unregenerate State, 
unto God in Christ, by a true Repentance; he had the singular Happi- 
ness and Privilege of an early Conversion from the Ways, which Original 
Sin disposes all Men unto. One of the principal Instruments which the 
God of Heaven used in tingeing, and filling the Mind of this chosen 
Vessel, with good Principles, was that Venerable Thomas Hooker, whose 
Name in the Churches of the Lord Jesus, is, As an Ointment poured forth; 
even that Hooker, who having Angled many Scores of Souls into the 
Kingdom of Heaven, at last laid his Bones in our New England; it was 
an Acquaintance with fim, that contributed more than a little to the 
Accomplishment of our Elisha, for that Work unto which the most 
High designed him. His liberal Education, having now the Addition 
of Religion to direct it, and improve it, it gave such a Biass to his young 
Soul, as quickly discovered it self in very signal Instances. His first 
Appearance in the World after his Education in the University, was in 
the too difficult and unthankful but very necessary Employment of a 
School-Master, which Employment he discharged with a good Fidelity. 
And as this first Essay of his Improvement was no more Disgrace unto 
him, than it was unto the famous Hieron, Whitaker, Vines, and others, 
that they thus began to be serviceable; so it rather prepared him, for 
the further Service, which his Mind was now set upon. He was of 
worthy Mr. Thomas Wilson’s ? Mind, that the calling of a Minister was 
the only one wherein a Man might be more serviceable to the Church 
of God, than in that of a School-Master: And with Melchior Adam, he 


Biographies and Letters 499 


reckoned, the Calling of a School-Master, Pulverulentam, ac Molestissimam 
quidem, sed Deo longe gratissimam Functionem.3 Wherefore having dedi- 
cated himself unto God betimes, he could not reconcile himself to 
any lesser way of serving his Creator and Redeemer, than the Sacred 
Ministry of the Gospel; but alas, where should he have Opportunities 
for the Exercising of it? The Laudian, Grotian,* and Arminian Faction 
in the Church of England, in the Prosecution of their Grand Plot, for 
the reducing of England unto a moderate sort of Popery, had pitched 
upon this as one of their Methods for it; namely, to creeple as fast as 
they could, all the Learned, Godly, Painful Ministers of the Nation; 
and invent certain Shibboleths for the detecting and the destroying of 
such Men as were cordial Friends to the Reformation. "T'was now a 
time when there were every day multiplied and imposed those un- 
warrantable Ceremonies in the Worship of God, by which the Con- 
science of our Considerate Eliot counted the second Commandment 
notoriously violated; *twas now also a time, when some Hundreds of 
those Good People which had the Nick-name of Puritans put upon them, 
transported themselves, with their whole Families and Interests, into 
the Desarts of America, that they might here peaceably erect Congrega- 
tional Churches, and therein attend and maintain all the pure Institu- 
tions of the Lord Jesus Christ; having the Encouragement of Royal 
Charters, that they should never have any Interruption in the Enjoy- 
ment of those precious and pleasant things. Here was a Prospect which 
quickly determined the devout Soul of our young Eliot, unto a Remove 
into New-England, while it was yet a Land not sown; he quickly lifted 
himself among those valiant Souldiers of the Lord Jesus Christ, who 
cheerfully encountred first the Perils of the Aitlantick Ocean, and then 
the Fatigues of the New-English Wilderness, that they might have an 
undisturbed Communion with him in his Appointments here. And 
thus did he betimes procure himself the Consolation of having after- 
wards and for ever a Room in that Remembrance of God, I remember 
thee, the Kindness of thy Youth, and the Love of thine Espousals, when thou 
wentest after me into the Wilderness. 

On his first Arrival to New-England, he soon joined himself unto the 
Church at Boston; twas Church-work that was his Errand _ hither, 
Mr. Wilson, the Pastor of that Church, was gone back into England, 
that he might perfect the Settlement of his Affairs; and in his Absence, 
young Mr. Eliot was he that supplied his place. Upon the Return of 
Mr. Wilson, that Church was intending to have made Mr. Eliot his 
Collegue, and their Teacher; but it was diverted. Mr. Eliot had en- 
gaged unto a select Number of his Pious 2-4 Christian Friends in 


500 | | The Puritans 


England, that if they should come into these Parts before he should be 
in the Pastoral Care of any other People, he would give himself to 
Them, and be for Their Service. It happened, that these Friends trans- 
ported themselves hither, the Year after him; and chose their Habita- 
tion at the Town which they called Roxbury. A Church being now 
gathered at this place, he was in a little while Ordained unto the Teach- 
ing and Ruling of that Holy Society. So, ’twas in the Orb of that 
Church that we had him as a Star fixed for very near Threescore Years; | 
it only remains that we now observe what was his Magnitude all this 
while, and how he performed his Revolution. . . 


His Famity-GOvVERNMENT. 


The Apostle Paul, reciting and requiring Qualifications of a Gospel 
Minister, gives Order, that he be The Husband of one Wife, and one that 
ruleth well his own House, having his Children in subjection with all gravity. 
It seems, that a Man’s Carriage in his own House is a part, or at least a 
sign, of his due Deportment in the House of God; and then, I am sure, 
our Eliot’s was very Exemplary. That one Wife which was given to him 
truly from the Lord, he loved, prized, cherished, with a Kindness that 
notably represented the Compassion which he (thereby) taught his 
Church to expect from the Lord Jesus Christ; and after he had lived 
with her for more than half an Hundred Years, he followed her to the 
Grave with Lamentations beyond those, which the Jews from the figure 
of a Letter in the Text, affirm, that Abraham deplored his aged Sarah 
with; her Departure made a deeper Impression upon him than what 
any common Affliction could. His whole Conversation with her, had 
that Sweetness, and that Gravity and Modesty beautifying of it, that every 
one called them Zachary and Elizabeth. His Family was a little Bethel, 
for the Worship of God constantly and exactly maintained in it; and 
unto the daily Prayers of the Family, his manner was to prefix the 
Reading of the Scripture; which being done, ’twas also his manner to 
make his young People to chuse a certain Passage in the Chapter, and 
give him some Observation of their own upon it. By this Method he did 
mightily sharpen and improve, as well as try, their Understandings, and 
endeavour to make them wise unto Salvation. He was likewise very strict 
in the Education of his Children, and more careful to mend any error 
in their Hearts and Lives, than he could have been to cure a Blemish in 
their Bodies. No Exorbitancies or Extravagancies could find a Room under 
his Roof, nor was his House any other than a School of Piety; one 
might have there seen a perpetual mixture of a Spartan and a Chris- 
tian Disciple. Whatever Decay there might be upon Famuily-Religion 


Biographies and Letters | 501 


among us, as for our Eliot, we knew him, that he would command his Chil- 
dren, and his Houshold after him, that they should keep the Way of the Lord. 


His Way oF PREACHING. 


Such was he in his lesser Family! And in his greater Family, he mani- 
fested still more of his Regards to the Rule of a Gospel-Ministry. To his 
Congregation, he was a Preacher that made it his Care, to give every 
one their Meat in due Season. It was Food and not Froth; which in his 
publick Sermons, he entertained the Souls of his People with, he did 
not starve them with empty and windy Speculations, or with such 
things as Animum non dant, quia non habent; ° much less did he kill them 
with such Poyson as is too commonly exposed by the Arminian and 
Socinian Doctors that have too often sat in Moses’s Chair. His way of 
Preaching was very plain; so that the very Lambs might wade, into his 
Discourses on those Texts and Themes, wherein Elephants might swim; 
and herewithal, it was very powerful, his Delivery was always very 
graceful and grateful; but when he was to use reproofs and warnings 
against any S7m, his Voice would rise into a Warmth which had in it 
very much of Energy as well as Decency; he would sound the Trumpets 
of God against all Vice, with a most penetrating Liveliness, and make 
his Pulpit another Mount Sina, for the Flashes of Lightning therein 
display’d against the Breaches of the Law given upon that Burning 
Mountain. And I observed, that there was usually a special Fervour in 
the Rebukes which he bestow’d upon Carnality, a carnal Frame and 
Life in Professors of Religion; when he was to brand the Earthly- 
mindedness of Church-Members, and the Allowance and the Indulgence 
which they often gave unto themselves in sensual Delights, here he was 
a right Boanerges; he then spoke, as *twas said one of the Ancients did, 
Quot verba tot Fulmina, as many Thunderbolts as Words. 

It was another Property of his Preaching, that there was evermore 
much of CurisT in it; and with Paul, he could say, I determined to know 
nothing but Fesus Christ; having that Blessed Name in his Discourses, 
with a Frequency like that, with which Paul mentions it in his Epistles. 
As *twas noted of Dr. Bodly, that whatever Subject he were upon, in 
the Application still his Use of it would be, to drive Men unto the Lord 
Jesus Christ; in like manner, the Lord Jesus Christ was the Loadstone 
which gave a touch to all the Sermons of our Eliot; a Glorious, Precious, 
Lovely Christ was the Point of Heaven which they still verged unto. 
From this Inclination it was, that altho’ he Printed several English Books 
before he dy’d, yet his Heart seemed not so much in any of them, as in 
that serious and savoury Book of his, Entituled, The Harmony of the 


502 The Puritans 


Gospels, in the Holy History of Fesus Christ. From hence also ’twas, that 
he would give that Advice to young Preachers, Pray let there be much 
of Christ n_your Ministry; and when he had heard a Sermon, which had 
any special Relish of a Blessed Jesus in it, he would say thereupon, 
O blessed be God, that we have Christ so much and so well preached in poor 
New-England! 

Moreover, he lik’d no Preaching, but what had been well studied for; 


and he would very much commend a Sermon which he could perceive’ 


had required some good Thinking and Reading in the Author of it. I 
have been present, when he has unto a Preacher then just come home 
from the Assembly with him, thus expressed himself, Brother, there was 
Oyl required for the Service of the Sanctuary; but it must be beaten Oyl; I 
praise God, that I saw your Oyl so well beaten to day; the Lord help us always 
by good Study to beat our Oyl, that there may be no knots in our Sermons left un- 
dissolved, and that there may a clear light be thereby given in the House of 
God! And yet he likewise look’d for something in a Sermon beside and 
beyond the meer Study of Man; he was for having the Spirit of God, 
breathing in it and with it; and he was for speaking those things, from 
those Impressions and with those Affections, which might compel the 
Hearer to say, The Spirit of God was here! I have heard him complain, 
It 1s a sad thing, when a Sermon shall have that one thing, The Spirit of God 
wanting init... . 
ELIOT AS AN EVANGELIST. 

The Titles of a Christian and of a Minister, have rendred our Eliot 
considerable; but there is one memorable Title more, by which he 
has been signalized unto us. An Honourable Person 7 did once in Print 
put the Name of an Evangelist upon him; whereupon in a Letter of his 
to that Person afterwards Printed, his Expressions were, ‘“There is a 
Redundancy, where you put the Title of Evangelist upon me; I beseech 
you to suppress all such things; let us do and speak and carry all 
things with Humility; it is the Lord who hath done what is done; and 
it is most becoming the Spirit of Jesus Christ to lift up him, and lay 
our selves low; I wish that Word could be obliterated.’? My Reader 
sees what a Caution Mr. Eliot long since entred against our giving him 
the Title of an Evangelist; but his Death has now made it safe, and his 
Life had long made it just, for us to acknowledge him with such a Title. 
I know not whether that of an Evangelist, or one separated for the Em- 
ployment of Preaching the Gospel in such Places whereunto Churches 
have hitherto been gathered, be not an Office that should be continued 
in our Days; but this I know, that our Eliot very notably did the 
Service and Business of such an Officer. 


Biographies and Letters ne 503 


Cambden ® could not reach the Heighth of his Conceit, who bore in 
his Shield a Salvage of America, with his Hand pointing to the Sun, 
and this Motto, Mihi Accessu, Tibi Recessu. Reader, Prepare to behold 
this Device Illustrated! 

The Natives of the Country now Possessed by the New-Englanders, 
had been forlorn and wretched Heathen ever since their first herding 
here; and tho’ we know not When or How those Indians first became 
Inhabitants of this mighty Continent, yet we may guess that probably 
the Devil decoy’d those miserable Salvages hither, in hopes that the 
Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ would never come here to destroy or 
disturb his Absolute Empire over them. But our Eliot was in such ill 
Terms with the Devil, as to alarm him with sounding the Silver Trum- 
pets of Heaven in his Territories, and make some Noble and Zealous 
Attempts towards outing him of his Ancient Possessions here. There 
were, I think, Twenty several Nations (if I may call them so) of Indians 
upon that spot of Ground, which fell under the Influence of our Three 
United Colonies; and our Eliot was willing to rescue as many of them as 
he could, from that old usurping Landlord of America, who is by the 
Wrath of God, the Prince of this World. 

I cannot find that any besides the Holy Spirit of God, first moved 
him to the blessed Work of Evangelizing these perishing Indians; ’twas 
that Holy Spirit which laid before his Mind the Idea of that which 
was on the Seal of the Massachuset Colony; A poor Indian having a 
Label going from his Mouth, with a, COME OVER AND HeEtp Us. It was the 
Spirit of our Lord Jesus Christ, which enkindled in him a Pztty for the 
dark Souls of these Natives, whom the God of this World had blinded, 
through all the By-past Ages. He was none of those that make, The 
Salvation of the Heathen, an Article of their Creed; but (setting aside the 
unrevealed and extraordinary Steps which the Holy one of Israel may 
take out of his usual Paths) he thought men to be lost if our Gospel be 
hidden from them; and he was of the same Opinion with one of the 
Ancients, who said, Some have endeavoured to prove Plato a Christian, till 
they prove themselves little better than Heathens. It is indeed a Principle in 
the Turkish Alcoran, That Let a Man’s Religion be what it will, he shall 
be saved, if he conscientiously live up to the Rules of it: But our Eliot was no 
Mahometan. He could most heartily subscribe to that Passage in the 
Articles of the Church of England. ‘““They are to be held accursed, who 
presume to say, that every Man shall be saved by the Law or Sect 
which he professeth, so that he be diligent to frame his Life according 
to that Law, and Light of Nature; for Holy Scripture doth set out 
unto us, only the Name of Jesus Christ, whereby Men must be saved.” 


504 | The Puritans 


And it astonished him to see many dissembling Subscribers of those 
Articles, while they have grown up to such a Phrensy, as to deny peremp- 
torily all Church-state, and all Salvation to all that are not under Diocesan 
Bishops, yet at the same time to grant that the Heathen might be saved 
without the Knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ... . 

The exemplary Charity of this excellent Person in this important 
Affair, will not be seen in its due Lustres, unless we make some Re- 
flections upon several Circumstances which he beheld these forlorn | 
Indians in. Know then, that these doleful Creatures are the veriest Ruines 
of Mankind, which are to be found any where upon the Face of the 
Earth. No such Estates are to be expected among them, as have been 
the Baits which the pretended Converters in other Countries have snapped 
at. One might see among them, what an hard Master the Devil is, to 
the most devoted of his Vassals/ These abject Creatures, live in a 
Country full of Mines; we have already made entrance upon our Jron; 
and in the very Surface of the Ground among us, ’tis thought there lies 
Copper enough to supply all this World; besides other Mines hereafter 
to be exposed; but our shiftless Indians were never Owners of so much 
as a Knife, till we come among them; their Name for an English-man 
was a Knife-man; Stone was instead of Metal for their Tools; and for 
their Coins, they have only little Beads with Holes in them to string 
them upon a Bracelet, whereof some are white; and of these there go 
six for a Penny; some are black or blew; and of these, go three for a 
Penny; this Wampam, as they call it, is made of the Shell-fish, which 
lies upon the Sea Coast continually. 

The[y] live in a Country, where we now have all the Conveniencies 
of human Life: But as for them, their housing is nothing but a few 
Mats ty’d about Poles fastened in the Earth, where a good Fire is their 
Bed Clothes in the coldest Seasons; their Clothing is but a Skin of a Beast, 
covering their Hind-parts, their Fore-parts having but’a little Apron, 
where Nature calls for Secrecy; their Diet has not a greater Dainty 
than their Nokehick, that is a spoonful of their parch’d meal, with a 
spoonful of Water, which will strengthen them to travel a Day together; 
except we should mention the Flesh of Deers, Bears, Mose, Rackoons, 
and the like, which they have when they can catch them; as also a little 
Fish, which if they would preserve, ’twas by drying, not by salting; for 
they had not a grain of Salt in the World, I think, till we bestow’d it 
on them. Their Physick is, excepting a few odd Specificks, which some 
of them Encounter certain Cases with, nothing hardly, but an Hoé- 
House, or a Powaw; their Hot-House is a little Cave about eight foot over, 
where after they have terribly heated it, a Crew of them go sit and 


Biographies and Letters 505 


sweat and smoke for an. Hour together, and then immediately run 
into some very cold adjacent Brook, without the least Mischief to them; 
’tis this way they recover themselves from some Diseases, particularly 
from the French; but in most of their dangerous Distempers, ’tis a 
Powaw that must be sent for; that is, a Priest, who has more Familiarity 
with Satan than his Neighbours; this Conjurer comes and Roars, and 
Howls, and uses Magical Ceremonies over the Sick Man, and will be 
well paid for it, when he has done; if this don’t effect the Cure, the 
Man’s Time is come, and there’s an end. 

They live in a Country full of the best Ship- Timber under Heaven: 
But never saw a Ship, till some came from Europe hither; and then 
they were scar’d out of their Wits, to see the Monster come sailing in, 
and spitting Fire with a mighty noise, out of her floating side; they 
cross the Water in Canoo’s, made sometimes of Trees, which they burn 
and hew, till they have hollow’d them; and sometimes of Barks, which 
they stitch into a light sort of a Vessel, to be easily carried over Land; 
if they over-set, it is but a little paddling like a Dog, and they are soon 
where they were. 

Their way of living, is infinitely Barbarous: The Men are most 
abominably slothful; making their poor Squaws, or Wives, to plant and 
dress, and barn, and beat their Corn, and build their Wigwams for 
them; which perhaps may be the reason of their extraordinary Ease 
in Childbirth. In the mean time, their chief Employment, when they’ll 
condescend unto any, is that of Hunting; wherein they’ll go out some 
scores, if not Hundreds of them in a Company, driving all before them. 

They continue in a Place, till they have burnt up all the Wood 
thereabouts, and then they pluck up Stakes; to follow the Wood, which 
they cannot fetch home unto themselves; hence when they enquire 
about the English, Why come they hither! They have themselves very 
Learnedly determined the Case, ’Twas because we wanted Firing. No 
Arts are understood among them, unless just so far as to maintain their 
Brutish Conversation, which is little more than is to be found among 
the very Bevers upon our Streams. ... 

This was the miserable People, which our Eliot propounded unto 
himself, to teach and save! And he had a double Work incumbent on 
him; he was to make Men of them, e’er he could hope to see them 
Saints; they must be c2vilized e’er they could be Christianized; he could 
not, as Gregory once of our Nation, see any thing Angelical to bespeak 
his Labours for their Eternal Welfare, all among them was Diabolical. 
To think on raising a Number of these hideous Creatures, unto the 
Elevations of our Holy Religion, must argue more than common or 


506 The Puritans 


little Sentiments in the Undertaker; but the Faith of an Eliot couid 
encounter it! ... 

The First Step which he judg’d necessary now to be taken by him, 
was to learn the Indian Language; for he saw them so stupid and sense- 
less, that they would never do so much as enquire after the Religion 
of the Strangers now come into their Country, much less would they 
so far imitate us, as to leave off their beastly way of living, that they 
might be Partakers of any Spiritual Advantage by us: Unless we could | 
first address them in a Language of their own. Behold, new Difficulties 
to be surmounted by our indefatigable Eliot! He hires a Native to 
teach him this exotick Language, and with a laborious Care and Skill, 
reduces it into a Grammar which afterwards he published. There is a 
Letter or two of our Alphabet, which the Indians never had in theirs; 
tho’ there were enough of the Dog in their Temper, there can scarce 
be found an R in their Language; (any more than in the Language of 
the Chinese, or of the Greenlanders) save that the Indians to the North- 
ward, who have a peculiar Dialect, pronounce an R where an N is 
pronounced by our Indians; but if their Alphabat be short, I am sure the 
Words composed of it are long enough to tire the Patience of any 
Scholar in the: World; they are Sesquipedalia Verba,° of which their 
Lingua is composed; one would think, they had been growing ever 
since Babel, unto the Dimensions to which they are now extended. For 
instance, if my Reader will count how many Letters there are in this 
one Word, Nummatchekodtantamooonganunnonash, when he has done, for 
his Reward I'll tell him, it signifies no more in English, than our Lusts, 
and if I were to translate, our Loves; it must be nothing shorter than 
Noowomantammooonkanunonnash. Or, to give my Reader a longer Word 
than either of these, Kummogkodonattoottummooetiteaongannunnonash, is in 
English, Our Question: But I pray, Sir, count the Letters! Nor do we 
find in all this Language the least Affinity to, or Derivation from any 
European Speech that we are acquainted with. I know not what 
Thoughts it will produce in my Reader, when I inform him, that once 
finding that the Demons in a possessed young Woman, understood the 
Latin and Greek and Hebrew Languages, my Curiosity led me to make 
Trial of this Indian Language, and the Demons did seem as if they did 
not understand it. This tedious Language our Eliot (the Anagram of 
whose Name was ToILE) quickly became a Master of; he employ’d a 
pregnant and witty Indian, who also spoke English well, for his Assistance 
in it; and compiling some Discourses by his Help, he would single out 
a\ Word, a Noun, a Verb, and pursue it through all its Variations: Having 
finished his Grammar, at the close he writes, Prayers and Pains thro’ 


Biographies and Letters 607 


Faith in Christ Jesus will do any thing! And being by his Prayers and 
Pains thus furnished, he set himself in the Year 1646. to preach the 
Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, among these Desolate Outcasts. .. . 


Mr. Exiot’s Way OF OPENING THE MysTERIES OF THE GOSPEL, 
TO Our INDIANS. 


*T was in the Year 1646, that Mr. Eliot, accompany’d by three more, 
gave a Visit unto an Assembly of Indians, of whom he desired a Meeting 
at such a Time and Place, that he might lay before them the Things 
of their Eternal Peace. After a serious Prayer, he gave them a Sermon 
which continued about a Quarter above an Hour, and contained the 
principal Articles of the Christian Religion, applying all to the Con- 
dition of the Indians present. Having done, he asked of them, Whether 
they understood? And with a General Reply they answered, They under- 
stood all. He then began what was his usual Method afterwards in 
treating with them; that is, he caused them to propound such Questions 
as they pleas’d unto himself; and he gave wise and good Answers to 
them all. Their Questions would often, tho’ not always, refer to what 
he had newly preached; and he this way not only made a Proof of their 
profiting by his Ministry, but also gave an Edge to what he delivered 
unto them. Some of their Questions would be a little Philosophical, and 
required a good Measure of Learning in the Minister concerned with 
them; but for this our Eliot wanted not. He would also put proper 
Questions unto them, and at one of his first Exercises with them, he 
made the Young Ones capable of regarding those three Questions, 


Q. 1. Who made you and all the World? 
Q. 2. Who do you look should save you from Sin and Hell? 
Q. 3. How many Commandments has the Lord given you to keep? 


It was his Wisdom that he began with them upon such Principles 
as they themselves had already some Notions of; such as that of an 
Heaven for good, and Hell for bad People, when they dy’d. It broke 
his gracious Heart within him to see, what Floods of Tears fell from the 
Eyes of several among those degenerate Salvages, at the first Addresses 
which he made unto them; yea, from the very worst of them all. He 
was very inquisitive to learn who were the Powawes, that is, the Sorcerers, 
and Seducers, that maintained the Worship of the Devil in any of their 
Societies; and having in one of his first Journeys to them, found out 
one of those Wretches, he made the Jndian come unto him, and said, 
Whether do you suppose God, or Chepian (i.e. the Devil) to be the Author of all 
Good? The Conjurer answered, God. Upon this he added with a stern 


508 The Puritans 


Countenance, Why do you pray to Chepian then? And the poor Man was 
not able to stand or speak before him; but at last made Promises of 
Reformation. ... 


THE CONCLUSION: OR, ELioT EXPIRING. 


By this time, I have doubtless made my Readers loth to have me 
tell what now remains of this little History; doubtless they are wishing 
that this John might have Tarried unto the Second Coming of our Lord. ' 
But, alas, All-devouring Death at last snatch’d him from us, and 
slighted all those Lamentations of ours, My Father, My Father, the Chariots 
of Israel, and the Horsemen thereof! 

When he was become a sort of Miles Emeritus,!° and began to draw 
near his End, he grew still more Heavenly, more Savoury, more Di- 
vine, and scented more of the Spicy Country at which he was ready to 
put ashore. As the Historian observes of Tiberius, That when his Life 
and Strength were going from him, his Vice yet remained with him; on 
the contrary, the Grace of this Excellent Man rather increased than 
abated, when every thing else was dying with him. ’Tis too usual with 
Old Men, that when they are past Work, they are least sensible of their 
Inabilities and Incapacities, and can scarce endure to see another suc- 
ceeding them in any part of their Office. But our Eliot was of a Temper 
quite contrary thereunto; for finding many Months before his Expira- 
tion, That he had not Strength enough to Edify his Congregation 
with Publick Prayers, and Sermons, he importun’d his People with some 
Impatience to call another Minister; professing himself unable to die 
with Comfort, until he could see a good Successor ordained, settled, 
fixed among them. For this Cause, he also cry’d mightily unto the 
Lord Jesus Christ our Ascended Lord, that he would give such a Gift 
unto Roxbury, and he sometimes call’d his whole Town together to 
join with him in a Fast for such a Blessing. As the Return of their 
Supplications, our Lord quickly bestow’d upon them, a Person young 
in Years, but old in Discretion, Gravity, and Experience; and one 
whom the Church of Roxbury hopes to find, A Pastor after God’s own 
Heart. 

It was Mr. Nehemiah Walter, who being by the Unanimous Vote and 
Choice of the Church there, become the Pastor of Roxbury, immediately 
found the Venerable Eliot Embracing and Cherishing of him, with 
the tender Affections of a Father. The good Old Man like Old Aaron, 
as it were disrobed himself, with an unspeakable Satisfaction, when 
he beheld his Garments put upon a Son so dear unto him. After this, 
he for a Year or two before his Translation, could scarce be perswaded 


Biographies and Letters 509 


unto any Publick Service, but humbly pleaded, what none but he would 
ever have said, It would be a Wrong to the Souls of the People, for him to do 
any thing among them, when they were supply’d so much to their Advantage 
otherwise. If I mistake not, the last that ever he Preached was on a 
Publick Fast; when he fed his People with a very distinct and useful 
Exposition upon the Eighty Third Psalm; and he concluded with an 
Apology, begging his Hearers to pardon the Poorness, and Meanness, 
and Brokenness, (as he called it) of his Meditations; but added he, My 
dear Brother here, will by’nd by mend all. 

But altho’ he thus dismissed himself as one so near to the Age of 
Ninety, might well have done, from his Publick Labours; yet he would 
not give over his Endeavours, in a more private Sphere, to Do good 
unto all. He had always been an Enemy to Jdleness; any one that should 
look into the little Dzary that he kept in his Almanacks, would see that 
there was with him, No Day without a Line; and he was troubled particu- 
larly, when he saw how much Time was devoured by that Slavery to 
Tobacco, which too many debase themselves unto; and now he grew 
old, he was desirous that his Works should hold pace with his Life; the . 
less Time he saw left, the less was he willing to have lost. He imagined 
that he could now do nothing to any purpose in any Service for God; 
and sometimes he would say with an Air peculiar to himself, J wonder 
for what the Lord Fesus Christ lets me live; he knows that now I can do nothing 
for him! And yet he could not forbear Essaying to Do something for his 
Lord; he conceived, that tho’ the English could not be benefited by any 
Gifts which he now fancied himself to have only the Ruines of, yet who 
can tell but the Negro’s might! He had long lamented it with a Bleeding 
and a Burning Passion, that the English used their Negro’s but as their 
Horses or their Oxen, and that so little Care was taken about their 
immortal Souls; he look’d upon it as a Prodigy, that any wearing the 
Name of Christians, should so much have the Heart of Devils in them, as 
to prevent and hinder the Instruction of the poor Blackamores, and 
confine the Souls of their miserable Slaves to a Destroying Ignorance, 
meerly for fear of thereby losing the Benefit of their Vassalage; but 
now he made a Motion to the English within two or three Miles of him, 
that at such a time and Place they would send their Negro’s once a 
Week unto him: For he would then Catechise them, and Enlighten them, 
to the utmost of his Power in the Things of their Everlasting Peace; 
however, he did not live to make much Progress in this Undertak- 
tas 4 

He fell into some Languishments attended with a Fever, which in a 
few days brought him into the Pangs (may I say? or Joys) of Death; 


510 The Puritans 


and while he lay in these, Mr. Walter coming to him, he said unto him, 
Brother, Thou art welcome to my very Soul. Pray retire to thy Study for me, 
and give me leave to be gone; meaning that he should not, by Petitions to 
Heaven for his Life, detain him here. It was in these Languishments, 
that speaking about the Work of the Gospel among the Indians, he 
did after this Heavenly manner express himself, There 1s a Cloud (said 
he) a dark Cloud upon the Work of the Gospel among the poor Indians. The 
Lord revive and prosper that Work, and grant it may live when I am Dead. It 
is a Work, which I have been doing much and long about. But what was the 
Word I spoke last? I recal that Word, My Doings Alas, they have been poor 
and small, and lean Doings, and I'll be the Man that shall throw the first Stone 
at them all. 

It has been observed, ‘That they who. have spoke many considerable 
things in their Lives, usually speak few at their Deaths. But it was other- 
wise with our Eliot, who after much Speech of and for God in his 
Life-time, uttered some things little short of Oracles on his Death-Bed, 
which, ’tis a thousand Pities, they were not more exactly regarded and 
recorded. Those Authors that have taken the pains to Collect, Apoph- 
thegmata Morientum, have not therein been unserviceable to the Living; 
but the Apophthegms of a Dying Eliot must have had in them a Grace 
and a Strain truly extraor[di]nary; and indeed the vulgar Error of the sig- 
nal sweetness in the Song of a Dying Swan, was a very Truth in our Expir- 
ing Eliot; his last Breath smelt strong of Heaven, and was Articled into 
none but very gracious Notes; one of the last whereof, was, Welcome 
Foy! and at last it went away calling upon the standers-by, to Pray, 
pray, pray! Which was the thing in which so vast a Portion of it, had 
been before Empioy’d. 

This was the Peace in the End of this Perfect and upright Man; thus 
was there another Star fetched away to be placed among the rest that 
the third Heaven is now enriched with. He had once, I think, a pleasant 
Fear, that the Old Saints of his Acquaintance, especially those two 
dearest Neighbours of his, Cotton of Boston, and Mather of Dorchester, 
which were got safe to Heaven before him, would suspect him to be 
gone the wrong way, because he staid so long behind them. But they 
are now together with a Blessed Jesus, beholding of his Glory, and cele- 
brating the High Praises of him that has call’d them into his marvellous 
Light. Whether Heaven was any more Heaven to him, because of his 
finding there, so many Saints, with whom he once had his Desireable 
Intimacies, yea, and so many Saints which had been the Seals of his 
own Ministry in this lower World, I cannot say; but it would be 
Heaven enough unto him, to go unto that Zesus, whom he had lov’d, 


Biographies and Letters 511 


preach’d, serv’d, and in whom he had been long assured, there does 
All Fullness dwell. In that Heaven I now leave him: Not without 
Gryneus’s Pathetical Exclamations [O beatum illum diem!] “Blessed will 
be the Day, O Blessed the Day of our Arrival to the Glorious Assembly 
of Spirits, which this great Saint is now rejoicing with!” 

Bereaved New-England, where are thy Tears, at this Ill-boding 
Funeral? We had a Tradition among us, “That the Country could 
never perish, as long as Eliot was alive.’’ But into whose Hands must this 
Hippo fall, now the Austin of it is taken away? Our Elisha is gone, and 
now who must next Year invade the Land? The Jews have a Saying, 
Quando Luminaria patiuntur Eclipsin, malum signum est mundo;™ But I 
am sure, ’tis a dismal Eclipse that has now befallen our New-English 
World. I confess, many of the Ancients fell into the Vanity of esteeming 
the Reliques of the Dead Saints, to be the Towers and Ramparts of the 
Places that enjoy’d them; and the Dead Bodies of two Apostles in the 
City, made the Poet cry out, 


A Facie Hostilt duo propugnacula presunt. 


If the Dust of dead Saints could give us any Protection, we are not 
without it; here is a Spot of American Soy] that will afford a rich Crop 
of it, at the Resurrection of the Just. Poor New-England has been as Glasten- 
bury of Old was called, A Burying-place of Saints. But we cannot see a 
more terrible Prognostick, than Tombs filling apace with such Bones, 
as those of the Renowned Eliot’s; the whole Building of this Country 
trembles at the Fall of such a Pillar. 


SAMUEL SEWALL, 1652-1730 


[For Sewall’s life see p. 376. Text from Collections of the Massachusetts 
Mistorical Society, Fifth Series, Vols. V—-VII.] 


DIARY 


AN. 13, 1677. Giving my chickens meat, it came to my mind that I 
gave them nothing save Indian corn and water, and yet they eat it 
and thrived very well, and that that food was necessary for them, 
how mean soever, which much affected me and convinced what need 
I stood in of spiritual food, and that I should not nauseat daily duties 
of Prayer, &c. 
Nov. 6, 1692. Joseph threw a knop of Brass and hit his Sister Betty 
on the forhead so as to make it bleed and swell; upon which, and for 
his playing at Prayer-Time, and eating when Return Thanks, I 


512 The Puritans 


whipd him pretty smartly. When I first went in (call’d by his Grand- 
mother) he sought to shadow and hide himself from me behind the 
head of the Cradle: which gave me the sorrowfull remembrance of 
Adam?’s carriage. 

April 29, 1695. The morning is very warm and Sunshiny; in the 
Afternoon there is Thunder and Lightening, and about 2. p.m. a very 
extraordinary Storm of Hail, so that the ground was made white with 
it, as with the blossoms when fallen; ’twas as bigg as pistoll and: 
Musquet Bullets; It broke of the Glass of the new House about 480 
Quarrels [Squares] of the Front; of Mr. Sergeant’s about as much; 
Col. Shrimpton, Major General, Gov". Bradstreet, New Meetinghouse, 
Mr. Willard, &c. Mr. Cotton Mather dined with us, and was with me 
in the new Kitchen when this was; He had just been mentioning that 
more Ministers Houses than others proportionably had been smitten 
with Lightening; enquiring what the meaning of God should be in it. 
Many Hail-Stones broke throw the Glass and flew to the middle of 
the Room, or farther: People afterward Gazed upon the House to see 
its Ruins. I got Mr. Mather to pray with us after this awfull Providence; 
He told God He had broken the brittle part of our house, and prayd 
that we might be ready for the time when our Clay-Tabernacles should 
be broken. Twas a sorrowfull thing to me to see the house so far undon 
again before twas finish’d. 

Jan. 13, 1696. When I came in, past 7. at night, my wife met me in 
the Entry and told me Betty had surprised them. I was surprised with 
the abruptness of the Relation. It seems Betty Sewall had given some 
signs of dejection and sorrow; but a little after dinner she burst out 
into an amazing cry, which caus’d all the family to cry too; Her 
Mother ask’d the reason; she gave none; at last said she was afraid 
she should goe to Hell, her Sins were not pardon’d. She was first 
wounded by my reading a Sermon of Mr. Norton’s, about the 5 
of Jan. Text Jn° 7. 34. Ye shall seek me and shall not find me. And 
those words in the Sermon, Jn° 8. 21. Ye shall seek me and shall die 
in your sins, ran in her mind, and terrified her greatly. And staying at 
home Jan. 12. she read out of Mr. Cotton Mather—Why hath Satan 
filled thy heart, which increas’d her Fear. Her Mother ask’d her whether 
she pray’d. She answer’d, Yes; but feared her prayers were not heard 
because her Sins not pardon’d. Mr. Willard though sent for timelyer, 
yet not being told of the message, .. . He came not till after I came 
home. He discoursed with Betty who could not give a distinct account, 
but was confused as his phrase was, and as had experienced in himself. 


Mr. Willard pray’d excellently. The Lord bring Light and Comfort 


Biographies and Letters 513 


out of this dark and dreadful Cloud, and Grant that Christ’s being 
formed in my dear child, may be the issue of these painfull pangs. 

Dec. 25, 1696. We bury our little daughter. In the chamber, Joseph 
in course reads Ecclesiastes 34 a time to be born and a time to die— 
Elisabeth, Rev. 22. Hanah, the 38 Psalm. I speak to each, as God 
helped, to our mutual comfort I hope. I order’d Sam. to read the 102. 
Psalm. Elisha Cooke, Edw. Hutchinson, John Baily, and Josia Willard 
bear my little daughter to the Tomb. 

Note. T'was wholly dry, and I went at noon to see in what order 
things were set; and there I was entertain’d with a view of, and con- 
verse with, the Coffins of my dear Father Hull, Mother Hull, Cousin 
Quinsey, and my Six Children: for the little posthumous was now 
took up and set in upon that that stands on John’s: so are.three, one 
upon another twice, on the bench at the end. My Mother ly’s on a 
lower bench, at the end, with head to her Husband’s head: and I 
order’d little Sarah to be set on her Grandmother’s feet. *"I'was an 
awfull yet pleasing Treat; Having said, The Lord knows who shall be 
brought hether next, I came away. 

Jan. 14, 1697. Copy of the Bill I put up on the Fast day; giving it to 
Mr. Willard as he pass’d by, and standing up at the reading of it, and 
bowing when finished; in the Afternoon. 

Samuel Sewall, sensible of the reiterated strokes of God upon himself 
and family; and being sensible, that as to the Guilt contracted upon 
the opening of the late commission of Oyer and Terminer at Salem 
(to which the order for this Day relates) he is, upon many accounts, 
more concerned than any that he knows of, Desires to take the Blame 
and shame of it, Asking pardon of men, And especially desiring prayers 
that God, who has an Unlimited Authority, would pardon that sin 
and all other his sins; personal and Relative: And according to his 
infinite Benignity, and Sovereignty, Not Visit the sin of him, or of any 
other, upon himself or any of his, nor upon the Land: But that He would 
powerfully defend him against all Temptations to Sin, for the future; 
and vouchsafe him the efficacious, saving Conduct of his Word and 
Spirit. , 

Jan. 26, 1697. I lodged at Charlestown, at Mrs. Shepards, who tells 
me Mr. Harvard built that house. I lay in the chamber next the street. 
As I lay awake past midnight, In my Meditation, I was affected to 
consider how long agoe God had made provision for my comfortable 
Lodging that night; seeing that was Mr. Harvards house: And that 
led me to think of Heaven the House not made with hands, which God 
for many Thousands of years has been storing with the richest furniture 


514 | The Puritans 


(saints that are from time to time placed there), and that I had some 
hopes of being entertain’d in that Magnificent Convenient Palace, 

every way fitted and furnished. These thoughts were very refreshing 
to me. 

Oct. 1, 1697. Jer. Balchar’s sons came for us to go to the Island. My 
Wife, through Indisposition, could not goe: But I carried Sam. Hannah, 

Elisa, Joseph, Mary and Jane Tapan: I prevail’d with Mr. Willard to 

goe, He carried Simon, Elisabeth, William, Margaret, and Elisa Tyng: 
Had a very comfortable Passage thither and home again; though 

against ‘Tide: Had first Butter, Honey, Curds and Cream. For Dinner, 

very good Rost Lamb, Turkey, Fowls, Applepy. After Dinner sung the 

121 Psalm. Note. A Glass of spirits my Wife sent stood upon a Joint- 

Stool which, Simon W. jogging, it fell down and broke all to shivers: 

I said twas a lively Emblem of our Fragility and Mortality. ... 

Jan. 14, 1701. Having been certified last night about 10. oclock of 
the death of my dear Mother at Newbury, Sam. and I set out with 
John Sewall, the Messenger, for that place. Hired Horses at Charles- 
town: set out about 10. aclock in a great Fogg. Din’d at Lewis’s with 
Mr. Cushing of Salisbury. Sam. and I kept on in Ipswich Rode, John 
went to accompany Brot from Salem. About Mr. Hubbard’s in Ipswich 
farms, they overtook us. Sam. and I lodg’d at Cromptons in Ipswich. 
Brot and John stood on for Newbury by Moon-shine. Jany. 15%" Sam. 
and I set forward. Brother Northend meets us. Visit Aunt Northend, 
Mr. Payson. With Brot and sister we set forward for Newbury: where 
we find that day appointed for the Funeral: twas a very pleasant Com- 
fortable day. 

Bearers, Jn° Kent of the Island, Lt Cutting Noyes, Deacon William 
Noyes, Mr. Peter Tappan, Capt. Henry Somersby, Mr. Joseph Wood- 
bridge. I follow’d the Bier single. Then Brot Sewall and sister Jane, 
Brot Short and his wife, Brot Moodey and his wife, Brot Northend and 
his wife, Brot Tappan and sister Sewall, Sam. and cous. Hannah 
Tappan. Mr. Payson of Rowley, Mr. Clark, Minister of Excester, 
were there. Col. Pierce, Major Noyes &c. Cous. John, Richard and 
Betty Dummer. Went abt 4. p.m. Nathan! Bricket taking in hand to 
fill the Grave, I said, Forbear a little, and suffer me to say That amidst 
our bereaving sorrows We have the Comfort of beholding this Saint 
put into the rightfull possession of that Happiness of Living desir’d 
and dying Lamented. She liv’d commendably Four and Fifty years 
with her dear Husband, and my dear Father: And she could not well 
brook the being divided from him at her death; which is the cause 
of our taking leave of her in this place. She was a true and constant 


Biographies and Letters 515 


Lover of Gods Word, Worship, and Saints: And she always, with a 
patient cheerfullness, submitted to the divine Decree of providing 
Bread for her self and others in the sweat of her Brows. And now her 
infinitely Gracious and Bountiful Master has promoted her to the 
Honor of higher Employments, fully and absolutely discharged from 
all manner of Toil, and Sweat. My honoured and beloved Friends 
and Neighbours! My dear Mother never thought much of doing the 
most frequent and homely offices of Love for me; and lavish’d away 
many Thousands of Words upon me, before I could return one word 
in Answer: And therefore I ask and hope that none will be offended 
that I have now ventured to speak one word in her behalf; when shee 
her self is become speechless. Made a Motion with my hand for the 
filling of the Grave. Note, I could hardly speak for passion and Tears. 

Jan. 24, 1704. Took 248 in my pocket, and gave my Wife the rest of 
my cash £4. 3-8, and tell her she shall now keep the Cash; if I want 
I will borrow of her. She has a better faculty than I at managing 
Affairs: I will assist her; and will endeavour to live upon my Salary; 
will see what it will doe. The Lord give his Blessing. 

April 3, 1711. I dine with the Court at Pullin’s. Mr. Attorney treats 
us at his house with excellent Pippins, Anchovas, Olives, Nuts. I said 
I should be able to make no Judgment on the Pippins without a Re- 
view, which made the Company Laugh. Spake much of Negroes; I 
mention’d the problem, whether [they] should be white after the 
Resurrection: Mr. Bolt took it up as absurd, because the body should 
be void of all Colour, spake as if it should be a Spirit. I objected what 
Christ said to his Disciples after the Resurrection. He said twas not so 
after his Ascension. 

April 11, 1712. I saw Six Swallows together flying and chippering 
very rapturously. 

May 5, 1713. Dr. Cotton Mather makes an Excellent Dedication- 
Prayer in the New Court-Chamber. Mr. Pain, one of the Overseers 
of the Work wellcom’d us, as the Judges went up Stairs. Dr. Cotton 
Mather having ended Prayer, The Clark went on and call’d the Grand- 
Jury: Giving their Charge, which was to enforce the Queen’s Procla- 
mation, and especially against Travailing on the Lord’s Day; God 
having return’d to give us Rest. [In the margin: My speech to Grand 
jury in new Court House.] I said, You ought to be quickened to your 
Duty, in that you have so Convenient, and August a Chamber pre- 
pared for you to doe it in. And what I say to you, I would say to my 
self, to the Court, and to all that are concern’d. Seeing the former 
decay’d Building is consum’d, and a better built in the room, Let us 


516 The Puritans 


pray, May that Proverb, Golden Chalices and Wooden Priests, never 
be transfer’d to the Civil order; that God would take away our filthy 
Garments, and cloath us with Change of Raiment; That our former 
Sins may be buried in the Ruins and Rubbish of the former House, 
and not be suffered to follow us into this; That a Lixivium may be © 
made of the Ashes, which we may frequently use in keeping ourselves 
Clean: Let never any Judge debauch this’ Bench, by abiding on it 
when his own Cause comes under Trial; May the Judges always discern 
the Right, and dispense Justice with a most stable, permanent Im- 
partiality; Let this large, transparent, costly Glass serve to oblige the 
Attornys alway to set Things in a True Light, And let the Character 
of none of them be Jmpar sibi; Let them Remember they are to advise 
the Court, as well as plead for their clients. The Oaths that prescribe 
our Duty run all upon Truth; God is Truth. Let Him communicat to 
us of His Light and Truth, in Judgment, and in Righteousness. If we 
thus improve this House, they that built it, shall inhabit it; the days 
of this people shall be as the days of a Tree, and they shall long enjoy 
the work of their hands. The Terrible Illumination that was made, 
the third of October was Twelve moneths, did plainly shew us that 
our Gop is a Consuming Fire: but it hath repented Him of the Evil. 
And since He has declar’d that He takes delight in them that hope in 
his Mercy, we firmly believe that He will be a Dwelling place to us 
throughout all Generations. 

Saturday, Feb. 6, 1714 [Queen Anne’s birthday]. . . . My neighbour 
Colson knocks at our door about 9g. or past to tell of the Disorders at the 
Tavern at the Southend in Mr. Addington’s house, kept by John 
Wallis. He desired me that I would accompany Mr. Bromfield and 
Constable Howell thither. It was 35. Minutes past Nine at Night be- 
fore Mr. Bromfield came; then we went. I took /neas Salter with me. 
Found much Company. They refus’d to go away. Said were there to 
drink the Queen’s Health, and they had many other Healths to drink. 
Call’d for more Drink: drank to me, I took notice of the Affront to 
them. Said must and would stay upon that Solemn occasion. Mr. John 
Netmaker drank the Queen’s Health to me. I told him I:drank none; 
upon that he ceas’d. Mr. Brinley put on his Hat to affront me. I made 
him take it off. I threaten’d to send some of them to prison; that did 
not move them. They said they could but pay their Fine, and doing 
that they might stay. I told them if they had not a care, they would be 
guilty of a Riot. Mr. Bromfield spake of raising a number of Men to 
Quell them, and was in some heat, ready to run into Street. But I did 
not like that. Not having Pen and Ink, I went to take their Names 


Biographies and Letters 517 


with my Pensil, and not knowing how to Spell their Names, they them- 
selves of their own accord writ them. Mr. Netmaker, reproaching the 
Province, said they had not made one good Law. 

At last I address’d myself to Mr. Banister. I told him he had been 
longest an Inhabitant and Freeholder, I expected he should set a good 
Example in departing thence. Upon this he invited them to his own 
House, and away they went; and we, after them, went away. The 
Clock in the room struck a pretty while before they departed. I went 
directly home, and found it 25. Minutes past Ten at Night when I 
entred my own House... . 

Monday, Feb. 8. Mr. Bromfield comes to me, and we give the Names 
of the Offenders at John Wallis’s Tavern last Satterday night, to Henry 
Howell, Constable, with Direction to take the Fines of as many as 
would pay; and warn them that refus’d to pay, to appear before us 
at 3. p.m. that day. Many of them pay’d. The rest appear’d; and 
Andrew Simpson, Ensign, Alexander Gordon, Chirurgeon, Francis 
Brinley, Gent. and John Netmaker, Gent., were sentenc’d to pay a 
Fine of 58 each of them, for their Breach of the Law Entituled, An Act 
for the better Observation, and Keeping the Lord’s Day. They all 
Appeal’d, and Mr. Thomas Banister was bound with each of them 
in a Bond of 20% upon Condition that they should prosecute their 
Appeal to effect. 

Capt. John Bromsal, and Mr. Thomas Clark were dismiss’d without 
being Fined. The first was Master of a Ship just ready to sail, Mr. Clark 
a stranger of New York, who had carried it very civilly, Mr. Jekyl’s 
Brother-in-Law. 

Dec. 23, 1714. Dr. CG. Mather preaches excellently from Ps. 37. 
Trust in the Lord &c. only spake of the Sun being in the centre of our 
System. I think it inconvenient to assert such Problems. 

Oct. 15, 1717. My Wife got some Relapse by a new Cold and grew 
very bad; Sent for Mr. Oakes, and he sat up with me all night. 

Oct. 16. The Distemper increases; yet my Wife speaks to me to goe 
to Bed. 

Oct. 17. Thursday, I asked my wife whether twere best for me to 
go to Lecture: She said, I can’t tell; so I staid at home. put up a Note. 
It being my Son’s Lecture, and I absent, twas taken much notice of. 
Major Gen! Winthrop and his Lady visit us. I thank her that she would 
visit my poor Wife. 

Oct. 18. My wife grows worse and exceedingly Restless. Pray’d God 
to look upon her. Ask’d not after my going to bed. Had the advice of 
Mr. Williams and Dr. Cutler. 


518 The Puritans 


Oct. 19. Call’d Dr. C. Mather to pray, which he did excellently in 
the Dining Room, having Suggested good Thoughts to my wife before 
he went down. After, Mr. Wadsworth pray’d in the Chamber when 
*twas suppos’d my wife took little notice. About a quarter of an hour 


past four, my dear Wife expired in the Afternoon, whereby the Cham. ° 


ber was fill’d with a Flood of Tears. God is teaching me a new Lesson; 
to live a Widower’s Life. Lord help me to ‘Learn; and be a Sun and 
Shield to me, now so much of my Comfort and Defense are taken away. 

Oct. 20. I goe to the publick Worship forenoon and Afternoon. My 
Son has much adoe to read the Note I put up, being overwhelm’d with 
tears. 

Feb. 6, 1718. This morning wandering in my mind whether to live 
a Single or a Married Life; I had a sweet and very affectionat Medita- 
tion Concerning the Lord Jesus; Nothing was to be objected against 
his Person, Parentage, Relations, Estate, House, Home! Why did I 
not resolutely, presently close with Him! And I cry’d mightily to God 
that He would help me so to doe! 

March 14, 1718. Deacon Marion comes to me, sits with me a great 
while in the evening; after a great deal of Discourse about his Court- 
ship—He told [me] the Olivers said they wish’d I would Court their 
Aunt [Mrs. Winthrop]. I said little, but said twas not five Moneths 
since I buried my dear Wife. Had said before ’twas hard to know 
whether best to marry again or no; whom to marry. 

June g, 1718.... Mrs. D[eniso]n came in the morning about 9 
aclock, and I took her up into my Chamber and discoursed thorowly 
with her; She desired me to provide another and better Nurse. I gave 
her the two last News-Letters—told her I intended to visit her at her 
own house next Lecture-day. She said, ’twould be talked of. I answer’d, 
In such Cases, persons must run the Gantlet. Gave her Mr. Whiting’s 
Oration for Abijah Walter, who brought her on horseback to Town. 
I think little or no Notice was taken of it. 

June 17, 1718. Went to Roxbury Lecture, visited Mr. Walter. 
Mr. Webb preach’d. Visited Govt Dudley, Mrs. Denison, gave her 
Dr. Mather’s Sermons very well bound; told her we were in it invited 
to a Wedding. She gave me very good Curds. 

July 25, 1718. I go in the Hackny Coach to Roxbury. Call at 
Mr. Walter’s who is not at home; nor Govt Dudley, nor his Lady. 
Visit Mrs. Denison: she invites me to eat. I give her two Cases with a 
knife and fork in each; one Turtle shell tackling; the other long, with 
Ivory handles, Squar’d, cost 48 64; Pound of Raisins with proportion- 
able Almonds. 


Biographies and Letters 519 


Oct. 15, 1718. Visit Mrs. Denison on Horseback; present her with a 
pair of Shoe-buckles, cost 5° 34. 

Nov. 1, 1718. My Son from Brooklin being here I took his Horse, and 
visited Mrs. Denison. Sat in the Chamber next Maj Bowls. I told her 
twas time now to finish our Business: Ask’d her what I should allow 
her; she not speaking; I told her I was willing to give her Two [Hun- 
dred] and Fifty pounds per annum during her life, if it should please 
God to take me out of the world before her. She answer’d she had 
better keep as she was, than give a Certainty for an uncertainty; She 
should pay dear for dwelling at Boston. I desired her to make pro- 
posals, but she made none. I had Thoughts of Publishment next 
Thorsday the 6th. But I now seem to be far from it. May God, who 
has the pity of a Father, Direct and help me! 

Nov. 28, 1718. I went this day in the Coach; had a fire made in the 
Chamber where I spake with her before, gt the first: I enquired how 
she had done these 3 or 4 weeks; Afterwards I told her our Conversation 
had been such when I was with her last, that it seem’d to be a direction 
in Providence, not to proceed any further; She said, It must be what 
I pleas’d, or to that purpose. Afterward she seem’d to blame that I 
had not told her so 97 1... . I repeated her words of 9! 1. She seem’d 
at first to start at the words of her paying dear, as if she had not 
- spoken them. But she said she thought twas Hard to part with All, 
and have nothing to bestow on her Kindred. I said, I did not intend 
any thing of the Movables, I intended all the personal Estate to be 
to her. She said I seem’d to be in a hurry on Satterday, 9? 1., which 
was the reason she gave me no proposals. Whereas I had ask’d her long 
before to give me proposals in Writing; and she upbraided me, That I 
who had never written her a Letter, should ask her to write. She asked 
me if I would drink, I told her Yes. She gave me Cider, Apples and a 
Glass of Wine: gathered together the little things I had given her, 
and offer’d them to me; but I would take none of them. Told her I 
wish’d her well, should be glad to hear of her welfare. She seem’d 
to say she should not again take in hand a thing of this nature. Thank’d 
me for what I had given her and Desired my Prayers. I gave Abijah 
Weld an Angel. Mr. Stoddard and his wife came in their Coach to 
see their Sister which broke off my Visit. Upon their asking me, I 
dismiss’'d my Coach, and went with them to see Mr. Danforth, and 
came home by Moon-shine. Got home about g. at night. Laus Deo. 

My bowels yern towards Mrs. Denison: but I think God directs me 
in his Providence to desist... . 

Nov. 30, 1718. Lord’s-day. In the evening I sung the 120. Psalm in 


520 The Puritans 


the family. About 7 a-clock Mrs. Dorothy Denison comes in, her 
Cousin Weld coming first, saying she desired to speak with me in 
privat. I had a fire in the new Hall, and was at prayer; was very much 
startled that she should come so far a-foot in that exceeding Cold 
Season; She enter’d into discourse of what pass’d between us at Rox- — 
bury last Friday; I seem’d to be alter’d in my affection; ask’d pardon 
if she had affronted me. Seem’d to incline the Match should not break 
off, since I had kept her Company so long. Said Mr. Denison spake to, 
her after his Signing the Will, that he would not make her put all 
out of her Hand and power, but reserve somwhat to bestow on his 
Friends that might want. I told her She might keep all. She excus’d, 
and said *twas not such an all. I Commended the estate. I could not 
observe that she made me any offer of any part all this while. She 
mention’d two Glass Bottles she had. I told her they were hers, and the 
other small things I had given her, only now they had not the same 
signification as before. I was much concern’d for her being in the Cold, 
would fetch her in a plate of somthing warm; (for I had not sup’d), 
she refus’d. However I Fetched a ‘Tankard of Cider and drank to her. 
She desired that no body might know of her being here. I told her they 
should not. Sam. Hirst went to the door, who knew not her Cousin 
Weld; and not so much as he might stay in the room while we talked 
together. She went away in the bitter Cold, no Moon being up, to 
my great pain. I Saluted her at parting. 

April 1, 1719. In the morning I dehorted Sam. Hirst and Grindal 
Rawson from playing Idle Tricks because ’twas first of April; They 
were the greatest fools that did so. N[ew] E[ngland] Men came hither 
to avoid anniversary days, the keeping of them, such as the 25th of 
Dect. How displeasing must it be to God, the giver of our Time, to 
keep anniversary days to play the fool with ourselves and others. ... 


[The courtship of the widow Denison having unhappily come to 
naught, Sewall looked about him once more, and in August, 1719, 
began calling upon the widow Abigail Tilly. His overtures were more 
acceptable in this quarter, and on October 29 they were married by 
Sewall’s son, the Reverend Joseph. The new Mrs. Sewall, however, 
was soon taken ill, and in the night of May 26, 1720, as Sewall records, 
“About midnight my dear wife expired to our great astonishment, 
especially mine.’ | 

Sept. 5, 1720. Going to Son Sewall’s I there meet with Madam Win- 
throp, told her I was glad to meet her there, had not seen her a great 
while; gave her Mr. Homes’s Sermon. ae 

Sept. 30, 1720. Mr. Colman’s Lecture: Daughter Sewall acquaints 


Biographies and Letters 521 


Madam Winthrop that if she pleas’d to be within at 3. p.m. I le 
wait on her. She answer’d she would be at home. 

Oct. 1, 1720. Satterday, I dine at Mr. Stoddard’s: from thence I 
went to Madam Winthrop’s just at 3. Spake to her, saying, my loving 
wife died so soon and suddenly, ’twas hardly convenient for me to 
think of Marrying again; however I came to this Resolution, that I 
would not make my Court to any person without first Consulting with 
her. Had a pleasant discourse about 7 Single persons sitting in the 
Fore-seat 77 29th, viz. Mad™ Rebekah Dudley, Catharine Winthrop, 
Bridget Usher, Deliverance Legg, Rebekah Loyd, Lydia Colman, 
Elizabeth Bellingham. She propounded one and another for me; but 
none would do, said Mrs. Loyd was about her Age. 

Oct. 3, 1720. Waited on Madam Winthrop again; ’twas a little while 
before she came in. Her daughter Noyes being there alone with me, 
I said, I hoped my Waiting on her Mother would not be disagreeable 
to her. She answer’d she should not be against that that might be for 
‘Ther Comfort. I Saluted her, and told her I perceiv’d I must shortly 
wish her a good Time; (her mother had told me, she was with Child, 
and within a Moneth or two of her Time). By and by in came Mr. Airs, 
Chaplain of the Castle, and hang’d up his Hat, which I was a little 
startled at, it seeming as if he was to lodge there. At last Madam 
- Winthrop came too. After a considerable time, I went up to her and 
said, if it might not be inconvenient I desired to speak with her. She 
assented, and spake of going into another Room; but Mr. Airs and 
Mrs. Noyes presently rose up, and went out, leaving us there alone. 
Then I usher’d in Discourse from the names in the Fore-seat; at last I 
pray’d that Katharine [Mrs. Winthrop] might be the person assign’d 
for me. She instantly took it up in the way of Denyal, as if she had 
catch’d at an Opportunity to do it, saying she could not do it before 
she was asked. Said that was her mind unless she should Change it, 
which she believed she should not; could not leave her Children. I 
express’d my Sorrow that she should do it so Speedily, pray’d her Con- 
sideration, and ask’d her when I should wait on her agen. She setting 
no time, I mention’d that day Sennight. Gave her Mr. Willard’s 
Fountain open’d with the little print and verses; saying, I hop’d if we 
did well read that book, we should meet together hereafter, if we did 
not now. She took the Book, and put it in her Pocket. Took Leave. 

Oct. 6, 1720. A little after 6. p.m. I went to Madam Winthrop’s. 
She was not within. I gave Sarah Chickering the Maid 28, Juno, who 
brought in wood, 1°. Afterward the Nurse came in, I gave her 184, 
having no other small Bill. After awhile Dr. Noyes came in with his 


522 The Puritans 


Mother; and quickly after his wife came in: They sat talking, I think, 
till eight a-clock. I said I fear’d I might be some Interruption to their 
Business: Dr. Noyes reply’d pleasantly: He fear’d they might be an 
Interruption to me, and went away. Madam seem’d to harp upon the . 
same string. Must take care of her Children; could not leave that 
House and Neighbourhood where she had dwelt so long. I told her 
she might doe her children as much or more good by bestowing what 
she laid out in Hous-keeping, upon them. Said her Son would be of 
Age the 7*» of August. I said it might be inconvenient for her to dwell 
with her Daughter-in-Law, who must be Mistress of the House. I gave 
her a piece of Mr. Belcher’s Cake and Ginger-Bread wrapped up in a 
clean sheet of Paper; told her of her Father’s kindness to me when 
Treasurer, and I Constable. My Daughter Judith was gon from me and 
I was more lonesom—might help to forward one another in our 
Journey to Canaan.—Mr. Eyre came within the door; I saluted him, 
ask’d how Mr. Clark did, and he went away. I took leave about 
g aclock. I told [her] I came now to refresh her Memory as to Monday- 
night; said she had not forgot it. In discourse with her, I ask’d leave 
to speak with her Sister; I meant to gain Mad™ Mico’s favour to per- 
suade her Sister. She seem’d surpris’d and displeas’d, and said she was 
in the same condition! 

Oct. 10, 1720. In the Evening I visited Madam Winthrop, who 
treated me with a great deal of Curtesy; Wine, Marmalade. I gave her 
a News-Letter about the Thanksgiving Proposals, for sake of the verses 
for David Jeffries. She tells me Dr. Increase Mather visited her this 
day, in Mr. Hutchinson’s Coach. 

Oct. 11, 1720. I writ a few Lines to Madam Winthrop to this purpose: 
‘‘Madam, These wait on you with Mr. Mayhew’s Sermon, and Account 
of the state of the Indians on Martha’s Vinyard. I thank you for your 
Unmerited Favours of yesterday; and hope to have the Happiness of 
Waiting on you to-morrow before Eight a-clock after Noon. I pray 
God to keep you, and give you a joyfull entrance upon the Two 
Hundred and twenty ninth year of Christopher Columbus his Dis- 
covery; and take Leave, who am, Madam, your humble Serv‘. 8.8. 

Oct. 12, 1720. Mrs. Anne Cotton came to door (twas before 8.) 
said Madam Winthrop was within, directed me into the little Room, 
where she was full of work behind a Stand; Mrs. Cotton came in and 
stood. Madam Winthrop pointed to her to set me a Chair. Madam 
Winthrop’s Countenance was much changed from what ’twas on Mon- 
day, look’d dark and lowering. At last, the work, (black stuff or Silk) 
was taken away, I got my Chair in place, had some Converse, but 


Biographies and Letters 623 


very Cold and indifferent to what ’twas before. Ask’d her to acquit 
me of Rudeness if I drew off her Glove. Enquiring the reason, I told 
her twas great odds between handling a dead Goat, and a living Lady. 
Got it off. I told her I had one Petition to ask of her, that was, that she 
would take off the Negative she laid on me the third of October; She 
readily answer’d she could not, and enlarg’d upon it; She told me of it 
so soon as she could; could not leave her house, children, neighbours, 
business. I told her she might do som Good to help and support me. 
Mentioning Mrs. Gookin,: Nath, the widow Weld was spoken of; said 
I had visited Mrs. Denison. I told her Yes! Afterward I said, If after 
a first and second Vagary she would Accept of me returning, Her 
Victorious Kindness and Good Will would be very Obliging. She 
thank’d me for my Book, (Mr. Mayhew’s Sermon), But said not a 
word of the Letter. When she insisted on the Negative, I pray’d there 
might be no more Thunder and Lightening, I should not sleep all 
night. I gave her Dr. Preston, ‘The Church’s Marriage and the Church’s 
Carriage, which cost me 68 at the Sale. The door standing open, 
Mr. Airs came in, hung up his Hat, and sat down. After awhile, 
Madam Winthrop moving, he went out. Jn° Eyre look’d in, I said 
How do ye, or, your servant Mr. Eyre: but heard no word from him. 
Sarah fill’d a Glass of Wine, she drank to me, I to her, She sent Juno 
home with me with a good Lantern, I gave her 64 and bid her thank 
her Mistress. In some of our Discourse, I told her I had rather go to the 
Stone-House adjoining to her, than to come to her against her mind. 
Told her the reason why I came every other night was lest I should 
drink too deep draughts of Pleasure. She had talk’d of Canary, her 
Kisses were to me better than the best Canary. Explain’d the expression 
Concerning Columbus. 

Oct. 13. I tell'my Son and daughter Sewall, that the Weather was 
not so fair as I apprehended. 

Oct. 17. In the Evening I visited Madam Winthrop, who Treated 
me Courteously, but not in Clean Linen as somtimes. She said, she 
did not know whether I would come again, or no. I ask’d her how 
she could so impute inconstancy to me. (I had not visited her since 
Wednesday night being unable to get over the Indisposition received 
by the Treatment received that night, and J must in it seem’d to sound 
like a made piece of Formality.) Gave her this day’s Gazett. Heard 
David Jeffries say the Lord’s Prayer, and some other portions of the 
Scriptures. He came to the door, and ask’d me to go into Chamber, 
where his Grandmother was tending Little Katee, to whom she had 
given Physick; but I chose to sit below. Dr. Noyes and his wife came 


524 The Puritans 


in, and sat a Considerable time; had been visiting Son and dater 
Cooper. Juno came home with me. 

Oct. 18, 1720. Visited Madam Mico, who came to me in a splendid 
Dress. I said, It may be you have heard of my Visiting Madam Win- 
throp, her Sister. She answered, Her Sister had told her of it. I ask’d | 
her good Will in the Affair. She answer’d, If her Sister were for it, 
she should not hinder it. I gave her Mr. Homes’s Sermon. She gave 
me a Glass of Canary, entertain’d me with good Discourse, and a 
Respectfull Remembrance of my first Wife. I took Leave. 

Oct. 19, 1720. Midweek, Visited Madam Winthrop; Sarah told me 
she was at Mr. Walley’s, would not come home till late. I gave her 
Hannah 3 oranges with her Duty, not knowing whether I should find 
her or no. Was ready to go home: but said if I knew she was there, 
I would go thither. Sarah seem’d to speak with pretty good Courage, 
She would be there. I went and found her there, with Mr. Walley and 
his wife in the little Room below. At 7 a-clock I mentioned going 
home; at 8. I put on my Coat, and quickly waited on her home. 
She found occasion to speak loud to the servant, as if she had a mind 
to be known. Was Courteous to me; but took occasion to speak pretty 
earnestly about my keeping a Coach: I said ’twould cost £100. per 


annum: she said twould cost but £40. . . . Exit. Came away somewhat 
late. ‘ 
Oct. 20, 1720... . Madam Winthrop not being at Lecture, I went 


thither first; found her very Serene with her dater Noyes, Mrs. Dering, 
and the widow Shipreev sitting at a little Table, she in her arm’d 
Chair. She drank to me, and I to Mrs. Noyes. After awhile pray’d the 
favour to speak with her. She took one of the Candles, and went into 
the best Room, clos’d the shutters, sat down upon the Couch. She told 
me Madam Usher had been there, and said the Coach must be set 
on Wheels, and not by Rusting. She spake somthing of my needing 
a Wigg. Ask’d me what her Sister said to me. I told her, She said, If 
her Sister were for it, She would not hinder it. But I told her, she did 
not say she would be glad to have me for her Brother. Said, I shall 
keep you in the Cold, and asked her if she would be within to morrow 
night, for we had had but a running Feat. She said she could not tell 
whether she should, or no. I took Leave. As were drinking at the 
Governour’s, he said: In England the Ladies minded little more 
than that they might have Money, and Coaches to ride in. I said, And 
New-England brooks its Name. At which Mr. Dudley smiled. Govt 
said they were not quite so bad here. | 

Oct. 21, 1720. Friday, My Son, the Minister, came to me p.m by 


Biographies and Letters ya 


appointment and we pray one for another in the Old Chamber; more 
especially respecting my Courtship. About 6. a-clock I go to Madam 
Winthrop’s; Sarah told me her Mistress was gon out, but did not tell 
me whither she went. She presently order’d me a Fire; so I went in, 
having Dr. Sibb’s Bowels with me to read. I read the two first Sermons, 
still no body came in: at last about 9g. a-clock Mr. Jn°e Eyre came in; 
I took the opportunity to say to him as I had done to Mrs. Noyes be- 
fore, that I hoped my Visiting his Mother would not be disagreeable 
to him; He answered me with much Respect. When twas after 9. 
a-clock He of himself said he would go and call her, she was but at one 
of his Brothers: A while after I heard Madam Winthrop’s voice, en- 
quiring something about John. After a good while and Clapping the 
Garden door twice or thrice, she came in. I mentioned something of 
the lateness; she banter’d me, and said I was later. She receiv’d me 
Courteously. I ask’d when our proceedings should be made publick: 
She said They were like to be no more publick than they were already. 
Offer’d me no Wine that I remember. I rose up at 11 a-clock to come 
away, saying I would put on my Coat, She offer’d not to help me. I 
pray’d her that Juno might light me home, she open’d the Shutter, 
and said twas pretty light abroad; Juno was weary and gon to bed. 
So I came hém by Star-light as well as I could. At my first coming 
_in, I gave Sarah five Shillings. I writ Mr. Eyre his Name in his book 
with the date Octob? 21. 1720. It cost me 8%. Jehovah jireh! Madam 
told me she had visited M. Mico, Wendell, and W™ Clark of the South 
[Church]. 

Oct. 22, 1720. Dater Cooper visited me before my going out of Town, 
staid till about Sun set. I brought her going near as far as the Orange 
Tree. Coming back, near Leg’s Corner, Little David Jeffries saw me, 
and looking upon me very lovingly, ask’d me if I was going to see his 
Grandmother? I said, Not to-night. Gave him a peny, and bid him 
present my Service to his Grandmother. 

Oct. 24, 1720. I went in the Hackny Coach through the Common, 
stop’d at Madam Winthrop’s (had told her I would take my-departure 
from thence). Sarah came to the door with Katee in her Arms: but I 
did not think to take notice of the Child. Call’d her Mistress. I told 
her, being encourag’d by David Jeffries loving eyes, and sweet Words, 
I was come to enquire whether she could find in her heart to leave that 
House and Neighbourhood, and go and dwell with me at the South- 
end; I think she said softly, Not yet. I told her It did not ly in my 
Lands to keep a Coach. If I should, I should be in danger to be brought 
to keep company with her Neighbour Brooker, (he was a little before 


526 : The Puritans 


sent to prison for Debt). Told her I had an Antipathy against those 
who would pretend to give themselves; but nothing of their Estate. I 
would a proportion of my Estate with my self. And I suppos’d she 
would do so. As to a Perriwig, My best and greatest Friend, I could 
not possibly have a greater, began to find me with Hair before I was - 
born, and had continued to do so ever since; and I could not find in 
my heart to go to another. She commended the book I gave her, 
Dr. Preston, the Church Marriage; quoted him saying *twas incon- 
venient keeping out of a Fashion commonly used. I said the Time 
and Tide did circumscribe my Visit. She gave me a Dram of Black- 
Cherry Brandy, and gave me a lump of the Sugar that was in it. She 
wish’d me a good Journy. I pray’d God to keep her, and came away. 
Had a very pleasant Journy to Salem. 

Oct. 31, 1720. At night I visited Madam Winthrop about 6. p.m. 
They told me she was gon to Madam Mico’s. I went thither and 
found she was gon; so return’d to her house, read the Epistles to the 
Galatians, Ephesians in Mr. Eyre’s Latin Bible. After the Clock struck 
8. I began to read the 103. Psalm. Mr. Wendell came in from his 
Warehouse. Ask’d me if I were alone? Spake very kindly to me, offer’d 
me to call Madam Winthrop. I told him, She would be angry, had been 
at Mrs. Mico’s; he help’d me on with my Coat and I came home: left 
the Gazett in the Bible, which told Sarah of, bid her present my Service 
to Mrs. Winthrop, and tell her I had been to wait on her if she had 
been at home. 

Nov. 1, 1720. I was so taken up that I could not go if I would. 

Nov. 2, 1720. Midweek, went again, and found Mrs. Alden there, who 
quickly went out. Gave her about 4 pound of Sugar Almonds, cost 38 
per £. Carried them on Monday. She seem’d pleas’d with them, 
ask’d what they cost. Spake of giving her a Hundred pounds per 
anum if I dy’d before her. Ask’d her what sum she would give me, ~ 
if she should dy first? Said I would give her time to Consider of it. 
She said she heard as if I had given all to my Children by Deeds of 
Gift. I told her ’twas a mistake, Point-Judith was mine &c. That in 
England, I own’d, my Father’s desire was that it should go to my 
eldest Son; ’twas 20f per anum; she thought ’twas forty. I think 
when I seem’d to excuse pressing this, she seem’d to think twas best to 
speak of it; a long winter was coming on. Gave me a Glass or two of 
Canary. 

Nov. 4, 1720. Friday, Went again about 7. a-clock; found there 
Mr. John Walley and his wife: sat discoursing pleasantly. I shew’d 
them Isaac Moses’s [an Indian] Writing. Madam W. serv’d Comfeits 


Biographies and Letters gs 


to us. After awhile a Table was spread, and Supper was set. I urg’d 
Mr. Walley to Crave a Blessing; but he put it upon me. About g. they 
went away. I ask’d Madam what fashioned Neck-lace I should present 
her with, She said, None at all. I ask’d her Whereabout we left off last 
time; mention’d what I had offer’d to give her; Ask’d her what she 
would give me; She said she could not Change her Condition: She had 
said so from the beginning; could not be so far from her Children, the 
Lecture. Quoted the Apostle Paul affirming that a single Life was 
better than a Married. I answer’d That was for the present Distress. 
Said she had not pleasure in things of that nature as formerly: I said, 
you are the fitter to make me a Wife. If she hald in that mind, I must 
go home and bewail my Rashness in making more haste than good 
Speed. However, considering the Supper, I desired her to be within 
next Monday night, if we liv’d so long. Assented. She charg’d me with 
saying, that she must put away Juno, if she came to me: I utterly 
deny’d it, it never came in my heart; yet she insisted upon it; saying 
it came in upon discourse about the Indian woman that obtained her 
Freedom this Court. About 10. I said I would not disturb the good 
orders of her House, and came away. She not seeming pleas’d with 
my Coming away. Spake to her about David Jeffries, had not seen 
him. 

Nov. 7, 1720. My Son pray’d in the Old Chamber. Our time had 
been taken up by Son and Daughter Cooper’s Visit; so that I only read 
the 130 and 143 Psalm. Twas on the Account of my Courtship. I 
went to Mad. Winthrop; found her rocking her little Katee in the 
Cradle. I excus’d my Coming so late (near Eight). She set me an arm’d 
Chair and Cusheon; and so the Cradle was between her arm’d Chair 
and mine. Gave her the remnant of my Almonds; She did not eat of 
them as before; but laid them away; I said I came to enquire whether 
she had alter’d her mind since Friday, or remained of the same mind 
still. She said, Thereabouts. I told her I loved her, and was so fond as 
to think that she loved me: She said had a great respect for me. I told 
her, I had made her an offer, without asking any advice; she had so 
many to advise with, that twas a hindrance. The Fire was come to 
one short Brand besides the Block, which Brand was set up in end; at 
last it fell to pieces, and no Recruit was made: She gave me a Glass 
of Wine. I think I repeated again that I would go home and bewail 
my Rashness in making more haste than good Speed. I would en- 
deavour to contain myself, and not go on to sollicit her to do that which 
she could not Consent to. ‘Took leave of her. As came down the steps 
she bid me have a Care. Treated me Courteously. Told her she had 


529 The Puritans 


enter’d the 4th year of her Widowhood. I had given her the News- 
Letter before; I did not bid her draw off her Glove as sometime I had 
done. Her Dress was not so clean as somtime it had been. Jehovah 
jireh! 

Nov. 9, 1720. Dine at Brot Stoddard’s: were so kind as to enquire © 
of me if they should invite M’™ Winthrop; I answer’d No. Thank’d 
my Sister Stoddard for her Courtesie; ... She sent her servant home 
with me with a Lantern. Madam Winthrop’s Shutters were open as 
I pass’d by. 


[The courtship of Madam Winthrop having failed still more disas- 
trously than that of Mrs. Denison, Sewall gave over the attack in 
November, 1720; in January, 1722, he turned his attentions toward 
Mrs. Mary Gibbs, whom he married for his third wife on March 29.] 


March 5, 1721. Lord’s Day, Serene, and good but very cold, yet 
had a comfortable opportunity to celebrate the Lord’s Supper. Mr. 
Prince, p.m. preach’d a Funeral Sermon from Psal. 90. 10. Gave 
Capt. Hill a good character. Just as I sat down in my Seat, one of my 
Fore-teeth in my under Jaw came out, and I put it in my pocket. This 
old servant and daughter of Musick leaving me, does thereby give 
me warning that I must shortly resign my Head: the Lord help me to 
do it cheerfully! 

June 15, 1725. I accompanied my Son to Mad. Winthrop’s. She 
was a-bed about 10. mane. I told her I found my Son coming to her 
and took the Opportunity to come with him. She thank’d me kindly, 
enquired how Madam Sewall did. Ask’d my Son to go to Prayer. 
Present Mr. John Eyre, Mrs. Noyes, Mrs. Walley and David Jeffries. 
At coming I said, I kiss: your hand Madame (her hand felt very dry). 
She desired me to pray that God would lift up upon her the Light of 
his Countenance. | 

Apr. 14, 1726. Mr. Coney died more than three years ago; and now 
his widow Mrs. Mary Coney died somwhat suddenly on Tuesday 
morning April, 12. and was inter’d in one of the new Tombs of the 
South-burying place; Bearers, Sam. Sewall, John Clark esqr; Sam. 
Brown esqr, Thomas Fitch esqr; Sam. Checkley esqr. Capt. John 
Ballantine. Was buried from her daughter Bromfield’s. His Honour 
the Lieut Govt follow’d his Aunt as a Mourner and his Lady. Thus 
death, by its regardless stroke, mows down all before it, making no 
distinction between our most prudent and Charming Friends, and 
others; May we learn more entirely to delight and trust in God who 
is Altogether Lovely and Lives for Ever. ‘Three Sams being Bearers 


Biographies and Letters 529 


together on the right side, occasion’d my binding all the Bearers up 
together in this band, 


Three Sams, two Johns, and one good ‘Tom 
Bore Prudent Mary to her Tomb. 


July 26, 1726. Rode in Mr. Sheriff’s Calash to Cambridge. Mr. Ap- 
pleton prays. Entring upon the Charge to the Grand-Jury, I said, 
Since men’s departure from God, there was such an aversion in them 
to return, that every kind of Authority was necessary to reclaim them. 
Notwithstanding the singular advantage Cambridge had enjoy’d in 
their excellent Pastors, and Presidents of the College—yet it must be 
said, Venimus ipsam Cantabrigiam ad stabiliendos, et corrigendos mores.1— 

Dec. 17, 1727. I was surprised to hear Mr. Thacher of Milton, my 
old Friend, pray’d for as dangerously Sick. Next day. Dect 18. 1727. 
I am inform’d by Mr. Gerrish, that my dear friend died last night; 
which I doubt bodes ill to Milton and the Province, his dying at this 
Time, though in the 77th year of his Age. Deus avertat Omen! 

Dec. 22, 1727. the day after the Fast, was inter’d. Bearers, Rev4 
Mr. Nehemiah Walter, Mr. Joseph Baxter; Mr. John Swift, Mr. Sam! 
Hunt; Mr. Joseph Sewall, Mr. ‘Thomas Prince. I was inclin’d before, 
and having a pair of Gloves sent me, I determined to go to the Funeral, 
if the Weather prov’d favourable, which it did, and I hired Blake’s 
Coach with four Horses; my Son, Mr. Cooper and Mr. Prince went 
with me. Refresh’d there with Meat and Drink; got thither about 
half an hour past one. It was sad to see [death] triumphed over my 
dear Friend! I rode in my Coach to the Burying place; not being able 
to get nearer by reason of the many Horses. From thence went directly 
up the Hill where the Smith’s Shop, and so home very comfortably and 
easily, the ground being mollified. But when I came to my own Gate, 
going in, I fell down, a board slipping under my Left foot, my right 
Legg raised off the skin, and put me to a great deal of pain, especially 
when *twas washed with Rum. It was good for me that I was thus 
Afflicted that my spirit might be brought into a frame more suitable 
to the Solemnity, which is apt to be too light; and by the loss of some 
of my Skin, and blood I might be awakened to prepare for my own 
Dissolution. Mr. Walter prayed before the Corps was carried out. I 
had a pair of Gloves sent me before I went, and a Ring given me there. 
... 1 have now been at the Interment of 4 of my Class-mates. ... 
Now I can go to no more Funerals of my Class-mates; nor none be 
at mine; for the survivers, the Rev’d Mr. Samuel Mather at Windsor, 
and the Rev? Mr. Taylor at Westfield, [are] one Hundred Miles off, 


530 The Puritans 


and are entirely enfeebled. I humbly pray that Christ may be graciously 
present with us all Three both in Life, and in Death, and then we shall 
safely and Comfortably walk through the shady valley that leads to 
Glory. 


JOHN WILLIAMS, 1664-1729 


[John Williams was born at Roxbury, his father being a deacon in 
John Eliot’s church, a shoemaker by trade; he was helped through, 
college by his grandfather, and graduated in 1683. He taught school at 
Dorchester for two years, and settled as minister at Deerfield in 1686. 
The massacre occurred on February 29, 1704. Williams was redeemed 
in October, 1706, and returned to Boston; all his children were re- 
deemed except a daughter, Eunice, who married an Indian and lost 
all memory of any other way of life. The town was resettled in 1707, 
and Williams went back to his post, saying, “‘I must return and look 
after my sheep in the wilderness.”’ This text is from The Redeemed Captive 
Returning to Xion (Boston, 1707), pp. 2-9, 22—-25.| 


THE REDEEMED CAPTIVE 


N THE Twenty-ninth of February [1704] Not long before break 
O of day, the Enemy came in like a Flood upon us; our Watch 
being unfaithful: an evil, whose awful effects, in a surprizal of our 
Fort, should bespeak all Watchmen to avoid, as they would not bring 
the charge of blood upon themselves. They came to my House in the 
beginning of the Onset, and by their violent endeavours to break 
open Doors, and Windows, with Axes, and Hatchets, Awaken’d me out 
of Sleep; on which I leapt out of bed, and running toward the door, 
perceived the Enemy making their entrance into the House: I called 
to awaken two Souldiers, in the Chamber; and returned towards my 
bedside, for my Arms: the Enemy immediately brake into the Room, 
I judge to the number of Twenty, with Painted Faces, and hideous 
Acclamations. I reach’d up my hands to the Bed-tester, for my Pistol, 
uttering a short Petition to God, For Everlasting Mercies for me & mine, 
on the account of the Merits of our Glorify’d Redeemer; Expecting a present 
passage through the Valley of the shadow of Death: Saying in my self, 
as Isaiah 38. 10, 11. I said, in the cutting off my days, I shall go to the gates 
of the grave: I am deprived of the residue of my years. I said, I shall not see the 
Lord, even the Lord, in the land of the Living: I shall behold man no more with 
the inhabitants of the World. Taking down my Pistol, I Cockt it, and put 
it to the breast of the first Indian who came up; but my Pistol missing 


Biographies and Letters | 531 


fire, I was seized by Three Indians, who disarmed me, and bound me 
Naked, as I was in my Shirt, and so I stood for near the space of an 
hour: binding me, they told me they would carry me to Quebeck. My 
Pistol missing fire, was an occasion of my Life’s being preserved: Since 
which I have also found it profitable to be cross’d in my own Will. 
The judgment of God did not long slumber against one of the Three 
which took me, who was a Captain, for by Sun-rising he received a 
Mortal Shot, from my next Neighbours house; who oppossed so great 
a number of French & Indians as Three hundred, and yet were no more 
than Seven men in an Ungarison’d house. 

I cannot relate the distressing care I had for my dear Wife, who had 
lien-In but a few Weeks before, and for my poor Children, Family, and 
Christian Neighbours. The Enemy fell to riffling the house, and entred 
in great numbers into every room of the house. I beg’d of God, to 
Remember Mercy in the midst of Judgment: that He would so far 
restain their Wrath, as to prevent their Murdermg of us: that we 
might have Grace to Glorify His Name, whether in Life or Death; and as I 
was able committed our State to God. The Enemies who entred the 
House were all of them Indians and Macqua’s, insulted over me a while, 
holding up Hatchets over my head, threatning to burn all I had, but 
yet God beyond expectation made us in a great measure to be Pityed: 
_ for tho’ some were so cruel and barbarous as to take & carry to the 
door, ‘Two of my Children and Murder them, as also a Negro Woman; 
yet they gave me liberty to put on my Clothes, keeping me bound 
with a Cord on one arm, till I put on my Cloths to the other; and 
then changing my Cord, they let me dress my self and then Pinioned 
me again. Gave liberty to my dear Wife to dress her self, & our Chil- 
dren. About Sun an hour high, we were all carryed out of the house, 
for a March, and saw many of the Houses of my Neighbours in Flames, 
perceiving the whole Fort, one house excepted, to be taken. Who can 
tell, what Sorrows pierced our Souls, when we saw our selves carryed 
away from Gods Sanctuary, to go into a strange Land, exposed to so 
many Trials? the journey being at least Three hundred Miles we were 
to Travel; the Snow up to the Knees, and we never inur’d to such 
hardships and fatigues, the place we were to be carryed to, a Popish 
Country. Upon my parting from the Town they fired my House & 
Barn. We were carryed over the river, to the foot of the Mountain, 
about a Mile from my House, where we found, a great number of 
our Christian Neighbours, Men, Women & Children, to the number 
of an hundred, Nineteen of which were afterward Murdered by the 
Way, and two starved to Death, near Cowass, in a time of great scarcity 


Bea The Puritans 


or Famine, the Salvages underwent there. When we came to the foot 
of our Mountain, they took away our Shoes, and gave us, in the room 
of them Indian-Shoes, to prepare us for our Travel. Whilst we were 
there the English beat out a Company, that remained in the Town, 
and pursued them to the River, Killing and Wounding many of them; — 
but the body of the Army, being Alarm’d, they repulsed those few 
English that pursued them. ; 

I am not able to give you an account of the number of the Enemy 
Slain, but I observed after this night, no great insulting Mirth, as I 
expected; and saw many Wounded Persons, and for several days 
together they buryed of their party, & one of chief Note among the 
Macqua’s. The Governour of Canada, told me, his Army had that 
Success with the loss but of Eleven men, Three French-men, One 
of which was the Lieutenant of the Army, Five Macqua’s, and Three 
Indians: but after my Arrival at Quebeck, I spake with an English 
man, who was taken the last War, and Married there, and of their 
Religion; who told me, they lost above Forty, and that many were 
Wounded: I replyed the Governour of Canada said, they lost but 
Eleven men: He answered, ’tis true, That there were but Eleven killed 
out-right at the taking of the Fort, but that many others were Wounded, 
among whom was the Ensign of the French; but said he, they had a 
fight in the Meadow, and that in both Engagements, they lost more 
than Forty. Some of the Souldiers, both French and Indians then present 
told me so (said he) adding, That the French always endeavour, to 
conceal the number of their Slain. 

After this, we went up the Mountain, and saw the smoak of the 
Fires in the Town, and beheld the awful desolations of our Town: 
And before we marched any farther, they kill’d a Sucking Child of 
the English. There were slain by the Enemy of the Inhabitants of our 
Town to the number of Thirty-eight, besides Nine of the Neighbouring 
Towns. We Travel’d not far the first day; God made the Heathen, 
so to Pity our Children, that though they had several Wounded Persons, 
of their own to carry, upon their Shoulders, for Thirty Miles, before 
they came to the River, yet they carryed our Children, uncapable of 
Travelling upon their Shoulders and in their Arms. When we came 
to our Lodging place, the first Night, they dugg away the snow, and 
made some Wigwams, cut down some of the small branches of Spruce- 
trees to lye down on, and gave the Prisoners some-what to eat; but we 
had but little Appetite. I was Pinioned, and bound down that Night, 
and so I was every Night whilst I was with the Army. Some of the 
Enemy who brought drink with them, from the Town, fell to drinking, 


Biographies and Letters 533 


and in their Drunken fit, they kill’d my Negro man, the only dead 
Person, I either saw at the Town, or in the Way. In the Night an Eng- 
lish Man made his escape: in the Morning I was call’d for, and ordered 
by the General to tell the English, ‘That if any more made their escape, 
they would burn the rest of the Prisoners. He that took me was unwill- 
ing to let me speak with any of the Prisoners, as we March’d; but on 
. the Morning of the Second day, he being appointed to guard the rear, 
I was put into the hands of my other Master, Who permitted me 
to speak to my Wife, when I overtook her, and to Walk with her to 
help her in her Journey. On the Way we discoursed of the happiness 
of them who had a right to an House not made with Hands, Eternal in the 
Heavens; and God for a Father, and Friend; as also, That it was our rea- 
sonable Duty, quietly to submit, to the Will of God, and to say, The 
Will of the Lord be done. My Wife told me her strength of body began to 
fail, So that I must expect to part with her; Saying, She hoped God 
would preserve my Life, and the Life of some, if not of all of our 
Children, with us; and commended to me, under God, the care of 
them. She never spake any discontented Word as to what had befal’n 
us, but with suitable expressions justified God, in what had befal’n us. 
We soon made a halt, in which time my chief Surviving Master came 
up, upon which I was put upon Marching with the foremost, and so 
made to take my last fare-well of my dear Wife, the desire of my Eyes, 
and companion in many Mercies and Afflictions. Upon our Separation 
from each other, we askt for each other Grace sufficient, for what God 
should call us to. After our being parted from one another, she spent 
the few remaining Minutes of her stay, in Reading the Holy Scriptures; 
which she was wont Personally every day to delight her Soul in Read- 
ing, Praying, Meditating of, and over, by her self, in her Closet, over 
and above what she heard out of them in our Family Worship. I was 
made to Wade over a small River, and so were all the English, the 
Water above Knee-deep, the Stream very Swift; and after that, to 
Travel up a small Mountain, my Strength was almost spent, before I 
came to the top of it: No sooner had I overcome the difficulty of that 
ascent but I was permitted to sit down, & be unburthened of my 
Pack; I sat pitying those who were behind and intreated my Master, 
to let me go down, and help up my Wife, but he refused, and would 
not let me stir from him. I ask’d each of the Prisoners (as they passed 
by me) after her, and heard that in passing through the abovesaid 
River, she fell down and was plunged over Head and Ears in the 
Water after which she travelled not far, for at the Foot of this Mountain, 
the cruel and blood thirsty Salvage who took her, slew her with his 


534 _ The Puritans 


Hatchet, at one stroak; the tidings of which were very awful: and 
yet such was the hard-heartedness of the Adversary, that my Tears 
were reckoned to me as a reproach. My loss, and the loss of my Children 
was great, our hearts were so filled with Sorrow, that nothing but the 
comfortable hopes of her being taken away in Mercy, to her self, from 
the evils we were to see, feel and suffer under; (and joyn’d to the 
Assembly of the Spzrits of just men made perfect, to rest in Peace, and joy 
unspeakable, and full of glory; and the good Measure of God thus to: 
exercise us,) could have kept us from sinking under, at that time. 
That Scripture, Job 1. 21.—Naked came I out of my Mothers womb, and 
Naked shall I return thither: the Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away, 
blessed be the Name of the Lord: Was brought to my Mind, and from it, 
That an Affhcting God was to be Glorifyed; with some other places of 
Scripture, to perswade to a Patient bearing my Afflictions... . 

[At Quebec:] The next Morning the Bell Rang for Mass: My Master 
bid me go to Church: I refused: he threatned me, and went away in a rage. 
At Noon the Jesut sent for me, to dine with them; for I eat at their 
Table all the time I was at the Fort. And after Dinner, they told me, 
the Indians would not allow of any of their Captives staying in their Wigwams, 
whilst they were at Church; and were resolved by force and violence to bring us 
all to Church, if we would not go without. I told them it was highly un- 
reasonable so to impose upon those who were of a contrary Religion; 
and to force us to be present at such Service, as we Abhor’d, was 
nothing becoming Christianity. They replyed, They were Salvages, and 
would not hearken to reason, but would have their Wills: Said also, If they were 
in New-England themselves, they would go into the Churches to see their | 
Wayes of Worship. I answered, the case was far different, for there was 
nothing (them selves being judges) as to matter or manner of Worship, 
but what was according to the Word of God, in our Churches; and 
therefore it could not be an offence to any mans Conscience. But among 
those there were Idolatrous Superstitions in Worship: they said, Come and 
see, and offer us Conviction, of what is superstitious in Worship. To which I 
answered, That I was not to do Evil that Good might come on it; and that 
forcing in matters of Religion was hateful. They answered, The Indians 
were resolved to have it so, @ they could not pacify them without my coming; 
and they would engage they should offer no force or violence to cause any com- 
pliance with their Ceremonies. 

The next Mass, my Master bid me go to Church: I objected; he arose 
and forcibly pulled me out by head and Shoulders out of the Wigwam 
to the Church, that was nigh the door. So I went in and sat down be- 
hind the door, and there saw a great confusion, instead of any Gospel 


Biographies and Letters 535 


Order. For one of the Jesuits was at the Altar, saying Mass in a Tongue 
Unknown to the Salvages, and the other, between the Altar & the 
door, saying and singing Prayers among the Indians at the same time; 
and many others were at the same time saying over their Pater Nosters, 
and Ave Mary, by tale from their Chapelit, or Beads on a string. At our 
going out we smiled at their Devotion so managed; which was offensive 
to them: for they said, We made a Derision of their Worship. When I 
was here, a certain Salvagess dyed; one of the Jesuits told me, She was 
a very holy Woman, who had not committed One Sin in Twelve Years. After a 
day or two the Jesuits ask’d me, What I thought of their Way, how I saw it? 
I told them, I thought Christ said of it, as Mark 7. 7, 8, 9. Howbeit, in 
vain do they Worship me, teaching for doctrines the Commandments of men. 
For laying aside the Commandment of God, ye hold the tradition of men, as the 
washing of pots, and cups: and many other such like things ye do. And he 
said unto them, Full well ye reject the commandment of God, that ye may keep 
your own tradition. ‘They told me, They were not the Commandments of men, 
but Apostolical Traditions, of equal authority with the Holy Scriptures. 
And that after my Death, I would bewail my not Praying to the Virgin 
Mary; and that I should find the want of her Intercession for me, 
with her Son; judging me to Hell for asserting, the Scriptures to be a 
perfect rule of Faith: and said, I abounded in my own sense, enter- 
taining explications contrary to the sense of the Pope, regularly sitting 
with a general Council, explaining Scripture, and making Articles of 
Faith. I told them, It was my Comfort that Christ was to be my Fudge, 
and not they at the Great Day: And as for their censuring and judging 
of me, I was not moved with it. One day a certain Salvage, taken 
Prisoner in Philips War, who had lived at Mr. Buckleys at Wethersfield, 
called Ruth, who could speak English very well; who had been often 
at my House but was now proselyted.to the Romish Faith, came into 
the Wigwam, and with her an English Maid who was taken the last 
War, who was dress’d up in Indian Apparel, could not speak one word 
of English, who said she could neither tell her own name, or the name 
of the place from whence she was taken. These two talked in the Indian 
Dialect with my Master a long time; after which my Master bad me 
Cross my self; I told him I would not he commanded me several times, 
and I as often refused. Ruth said, Mr. Williams you know the Scripture, 
and therefore act against your own light, for you know the Scripture 
saith, Servants obey your Masters; he is your Master, and you his Servant. 
I told her she was ignorant, and knew not the meaning of the Scripture, 
telling her, J was not to disobey the Great God to obey any Master, and that 
I was ready to suffer for God if called thereto: On which she talked to my 


530 The Puritans 


Master, I suppose she interpreted what I said. My Master took hold 
of my hand to force me to Cross my self, but I strugled with him, and 
would not suffer him to guide my hand; upon this he pulled off a 
Crucifix from his own neck, and bad me Kiss it; but I refused once and 
again; he told me he would dash out my brains with his Hatchet if I refused. — 
I told him I should sooner chuse death then to Sin against God; 
then he ran and catcht up his Hatchet, and acted as tho’ he would 
have dashed out my Brains; seeing I was not moved, he threw ‘down 
his Hatchet, saying, he would first bite off all my nails uf I still refused; I 
gave him my hand and told him, I was ready to suffer, he set his 
teeth in my thumb nails and gave a gripe with his teeth, and then said, 
no good Minister, no love God, as bad as the Devil; and so left off. I have 
reason to bless God who strengthened me to withstand; by this he 
was so discouraged as never more to meddle with me about my Re- 
ligion. 


EBENEZER TURELL, 1702-1778 


[Ebenezer Turell was born in Boston, graduated from Harvard Col- 
lege in 1721, married the daughter of Benjamin Colman, and served 
as minister at Medford, 1724-1778. He published The Life and Char- 
acter of the Reverend Benjamin Colman, D.D. in Boston, 1749; this text 
is from pp. 5-7, 26-28, 166-167, 182-184, 210-211. The biography of 
his wife, Memoirs of the Life and Death of the Pious and Ingenious Mrs. Fane 
Turell, was published at Boston, 1735, and in London, 1741; this text 
is from the edition of 1735, pp. 60-61, 78-79, 116-119.] 


BEN7FAMIN COLMAN 


T was after the Twentieth Day of July in the year 1695 that Mr. 
Colman imbarked for London (by the Will of God) on board the Ship 
Swan Capt. Thomas Gilbert Commander—For the whole three first Days 
he was on Shipboard he endured the Extremity of Sea Sickness, and 
at times through the Voyage. On the fourth Day the Vessel sprang a 
Leek, and the Water was heard to pour in on the Star-board Tack, 
which alarmed the Sailors, and made some of them remark his Eveness 
and Calmness when they expected he should have been much af- 
frighted. When the Winds blew a Storm afterward, he governed his 
Fears by looking on the Captain, Mate, and Sailors to discover what 
he saw in their Faces. When they came into the warm Seas, a Dolphin 
which they had marked with a Scar on his shining Back, kept Com- 


@ 


Biographies and Letters 537 


pany with the Ship for Ten or ‘Twelve Days together, feeding on her 
Bottom. | 

At the End of seven Weeks a Seeker made after them, and soon came 
up with them. She was a Privateer of 20 Guns and an 100 Men, a 
light and fleet Ship; The Swan was heavy laden, twelve Guns and 
24 Men, Sailors and Passengers together. The Swan’s Company bore 
their Broad-sides and Vollies of small Arms six or seven Times that 
Afternoon, defending themselves and annoying the Enemy; but were 
taken the next Morning, having their Boltsprit shot away, and the 
Mast, and Rigging so torn and cut, that the Masts fell all together an 
Hour after; by which means the Ship became a perfect Wreck, and 
the Company were much looked at by the French when they came 
into Port. The French had a great Number of Men killed, for they 
were so full that if a shot entered it must do Execution. | 

God graciously preserved Mr. Colman in the Fight, exposed all the 
while on the Quarter-Deck, where four out of seven were wounded, 
and one mortally. He was much praised for his Courage when the 
Fight was over; but though he charged and discharged like the rest, 
yet he declared he was sensible of no Courage but of a great deal of 
Fear; and when they had reecived two or three Broadsides he wondered 
when his Courage would come, as he had heard others talk. In short, 
he fought like a Philosopher and a Christian. He looked Death in the 
Face, and prayed all the while he charged and fired, while the 
Boatswain and others made a Frolick and Sport of it. 

There was a young Rake, a Passenger on board, that lisped at 
Atheism, and spit at Religion every Day of the Voyage, who was now 
in the Terrors of Death,—when he saw Mr. Colman take a Musket, he 
was ashamed to leave the Deck; but the first Volley of small Arms laid 
him flat on his Belly without being touched: when the great Guns 
roared he would have crept through the Boards to hide himself; he 
lay as oné Dead, and let the Men tread on him or kick him as they 
pleased. At last he peeped up when the firing ceased for a Minute, and 
asked where they were? Mr. Colman told him they lay by to charge 
again; and in a Moment he flew down into the Doctor’s Room, and 
was seen no more till the Ship was taken. Yet this Spark when safe in 
France was ridiculing Religion again, and scorning the Ministers of it 
as much as ever... . 

He took Coach on Christmas Day, and found in it a Gentlewoman 
of very good Fashion and Sense, with her little Daughter, and was 
much delighted in the Journey with the agreeable Conversation of the 
Lady and Prattle of Miss. | 


530 The Puritans 


At Cambridge Mr. Colman found a small Congregation of inferior 
People, the Shadow of the University, like that of all Cathedrals, 
stunting the Growth of the Dissenters. 

They liked illiterate Preachers, and when Davis and others of that 
Sort came to Town, he was left by one half of his Hearers. They were 
also sadly tinged with Antimomian Principles, and his Texts were too 
legal for them.*—So he was ashamed of his Post, and wrote earnestly 
to London to be released from it.—He saw all the Colleges there after: 
a Sort, but had none of those honorary Advantages for doing it as he 
had at Oxford. ' 

At twelve Weeks End he returned to London, and some of the City 
Ministers resolved to take a Turn down themselves. The Reverend 
and zealous Mr. Pomfret went first for a Month, and others followed 
him. 

But at length they got a handsom Subscription at London to the in- 
genious and learned Mr. Pearse, an excellent Preacher, to fix him at 
Cambridge for two or three Years. He went; and being already well 
entred into the Mathematicks, soon made himself known to the learned 
Mr. Whiston,’ and became his most esteemed Friend. A fatal Friendship! 
for then he also drank in Mr. Whiston’s Arrian Principles, which has 
since been the Spring of so much Strife and Confusion and every evil 
Work among the Dissenters. | 

Within a few Weeks after Mr. Colman was invited to the great Town 
of Ipswich in Suffolk.—tIn his Way thither God graciously preserved him 
from a very dangerous Snare, which three ill Women laid for him. 
He found them in the Stage-Coach, supped with them in the Evening, 
and was retired to his Chamber: But as he was going to Bed one of 
them knocked at his Door, and told him that they had mulled a Glass 
of Wine, chiefly because of the Cold that was upon him, and he must 
needs take Part of it with them. In their Chamber were two Beds, 
and he heard one of them gigling behind the Curtains of the furthermost 
Bed. He began now to suspect them, when one of them told him, that 
truly they were afraid to lie in the Chamber alone; that the furthest 
Bed would hold them three; and they begged of him to lodge in the 
nearest Bed. He told them he was greatly surprised at their Motion, 
and ashamed of it, that their Fear was groundless; no Danger would 
happen to them in the Inn; if there were any he should make a poor 
Defence; and that in short, they utterly forgot what they owed to 
their Reputation and Virtue, or to his. So they begged his Pardon, 
and he suddenly stept into his own Chamber. | 

* Like as at this Day in some Places of New-England. [Turell’s note.] 


Biographies and Letters 539 


At Ipswich he spent eleven Weeks very pleasantly, and with much 
Satisfaction; but they needed a Preacher only every other Lord’s Day. . 
The excellent Mr. Fairfax divided his ‘Time with them and some neigh- 
bouring Congregations, as the Bishop of them all. Being now got to a 
plentiful Fish-market, and near to the Oyster-Banks, he began to think 
himself again in New-England. . . . 

Reading, and close Application of Mind to Study was early, and 
ever his Delight—He read much, and digested well the various Authors 
he perused; and often collected from them what was curious and useful, 
as appears by many Sheets left, and numerous Quotations in his Ser- 
mons.* 

In his younger ‘Times he was a Night-Student, by which his Health 
was greatly impaired, and he experienced the Truth of that Saying 
in Erasmus, Nocturnae Lucubrationes longe periculosissime habentur.* In his 
latter Years he plied his Studies chiefly in the Forenoon, and ordinarily 
spent the whole of it in them. And he has been heard to say on the 
Verge of Seventy, ‘“That he found himself best in Health and Spirit, 
at his Table with a Book or Pen in his Hand.—All must be hushed and 
still when he was there employed either in Reading, writing Letters 
or composing Sermons—He wrote many Hundred Epistles in a Year— 
(Nulla Dies sine Epistolis 3) to all Ranks of Persons; on all Occasions 
and Businesses, and with greatest Ease imaginable, to the vast Pleasure 
and Profit of his Friends, the Benefit of his Country and the Churches 
in it; and the Good of Mankind.—His Letters to his Correspondents 
abroad being seen and admired, created him new Friends and were a 
happy Means of raising up new Benefactors to these Provinces... 
—I need not therefore here observe to my Readers, how good a Master 
he was of the Epistolary Stile—The Letters already inserted and others 
to be published in our Narrative shall speak for themselves. 

When he was about making a Sermon, after he had first looked up 
to Heaven for Assistance, he chose a Text, and consulted the best 
Expositors upon it (particularly the Rev. Mr. Matthew Henry, for whose 
Writings he seems to have had the greatest Value next to the sacred 
Scriptures) and then drew the Scheme of it on loose Papers, and noted 
down not only general Heads and Subdivisions, but also some of the 
most leading Thoughts and brightest Quotations from Authors (around 

* He had a good Library, not large, but wisely collected of the best Authors 
ancient and modern. He retained considerable of his School-Learning to the last— 
I find him to have read over Horace in his Old Age, by his Collections of some of the 
most beautiful Lines and Sentiments from it. [ Twrell’s note.] 


t And yet as I observed in my Introduction, all or the most of them are printed off 
from the first rough Draught. [ Turell’s note.] 


540 The Puritans 


him) with many Passages of Scripture for Proof and Illustration.—Thus 
prepared he proceeded to write his Sermon on a Sheet of Paper neatly 
folded and stitched, which he sometimes finished with a Celerity and 
Exactness incredible. I have known him begin and compleat a Dis- 
course that would last an Hour at one Sitting in a Forenoon.* Few 
Interlines or Emendations were afterward inserted or needed.t . . . 

The Doctor as became a vigilant Overseer made frequent Visits to 
the several Families of his Charge, not only common and civil to cultivate ' 
Friendship and Good Will, but proper Pastoral Ones to enquire into 
and know their State and Circumstances in Order to treat them 
agreably, wisely and faithfully, and that he might the better adapt his 
publick Exercises, and give to every one their Portion in due Season. 

He made Conscience of visiting the Poor as well as the Rich (es- 
pecially in their Afflictions) instructing, advising, admonishing and 
comforting as he saw Occasion: And this he did Night and Day as | 
long as his Strength lasted, and oftentimes to the no small Hazard of 
his Health and Life. 

And when he gave Visits to any of his Congregation or received 
Visits from them (or other his Friends) he generally and generously 
bestowed Books of Piety on them, either his own Sermons, or the 
Publications of others.—When he was called to minister to the Souls 
of the Poor at their own Dwellings, he ordinarily enquired of their 
bodily Wants, which were soon supplyed either by himself, or charitable 
Friends to whom he instantly applyed on their Behalf. 

His Prayers over sick and dying Ones, were not only very affectionate 
and fervent, but also most instructive and edifying—By a Train of 
excellent Thoughts he led them into the Knowledge of Sin and Duty, 
of God and Christ, and from Earth to Heaven.{ 

When he could not conveniently visit his People or other his Friends 
in distant Places, he sent his Thoughts to them in Writing, suted to 
the various Providences he heard they were under—A few § of the 
Copies which are found, and which exhibit the bright Image of his 
Mind, the Reader shall be entertained withal after I have just added 

* One of his Twenty Sacramental Sermons in Print. [ Turell’s note.] 

+ And yet he saw Cause to destroy many of his Sermons. On one and another of 
them he has wrote—The first three or five Sermons on this Text, are burnt. [ Turell’s 
eerie of the Members (I might say Ministers) of the Church of England have de- 
clared themselves more raised and edified by them than by all the devout and pious 
Forms of their own Church. [ Turell’s note.] 

§ Alas, that so few are found; for he seldom kept Copies of his familiar Letters. 


A large and valuable Collection of them might be obtained if sought for, equally 
entertaining with those that follow. [Turell’s note.] 


Biographies and Letters 541 


a Word or two (for a Close to this Chapter) on his gentlemanly Car- 
riage and Behaviour, and other Homiletical Virtues which adorned him, 
and were so conspicuous to all he conversed with.—He was a good 
Master of Address, and carried all the Politeness of a Court about 
him.—And as he treated Mankind of various Degrees and Ranks with 
a Civility, Courtesy, Affability, Gomplaisance and Candor scarce to 
be equalled. So all but the Base and Mean showed him an high Degree 
of Respect and Reverence, Love and Affection.—Particularly Men of 
Figure and Parts of our own Nation and Foreigners, whom he failed not 
to visit upon their coming among us, greatly valued and admired him. 

It has been said (perhaps not without some seeming Grounds for it) 
that he sometimes went too far in complemental Strains both in Word 
and Writing—but if he did, I am perswaded such Flights took their 
Rise rather from an Exuberance or Excrescence (if the Phrase be allow- 
able) of the before-mentioned homiletical Virtues, and a too high 
Complacency in the appearing Excellencies of others, than from faulty 
Insincerity and designed Flattery in the Time of it.—As he took a 
sincere Pleasure in the Gifts of others, and had a natural Proneness to 
think favourably of all Men, and construed every Thing in the most 
candid Sense, it is not much to be wondered at if he sometimes exceeded 
in his Expressions.—And it is to be lamented that some have swollen 
with Pride, and made an ill Use of the Doctor’s high Esteem and good 
Opinion of them. 


FANE TURELL 


ER Father the Reverend Dr. Benjamin Colman (thro’ the gracious 
H Favour of God) is still living among us, one universally acknowl- 
eg’d to be even from his younger Times (at Home and Abroad) a bright 
Ornament and Honour to his Country, and an Instrument in God’s 
Hand of bringing much Good to it. | 

Her Mother Mrs. Fane Colman was a truly gracious Woman, Daughter 
of Mr. Thomas Clark Gentleman. 

Mrs. Turell was their third Child, graciously given them after they 
had mourn’d the Loss of the two former; and for seven Years their only 
one. Her Constitution from her early Infancy was wonderful weak and 
tender, yet the Organs of her Body so form’d as not to obstruct the 
free Operations of the active and capacious Spirit within. The Buddings 
of Reason and Religion appear’d on her sooner than usual.—Before her 
second Year was compleated she could speak distinctly, knew her Letters, 
and could relate many Stories out of the Scriptures to the Satisfaction 


542 “. ‘The: Puritans 


and Pleasure of the most Judicious. I have heard that Governour Dud- 
ley, with other Wise and Polite Gentlemen, have plac’d her on a Table 
and setting round it own’d themselves diverted with her Stories.— 
Before she was four Years old (so strong and tenacious was her Memory) 
she could say the greater Part of the Assembly's Catechism, many of the 
Psalms, some hundred Lines of the best Poetry, read distinctly, and make 
pertinent Remarks on many things she read.— 

She grew in Knowlege (the most useful) day by day, and had the ~ 
Fear of God before her Eyes. 

She pray’d to God sometimes by excellent Forms (recommended to her 
by her Father and suited to her Age & Circumstances) and at other 
times ex corde, the Spirit of God helping her Infirmities. When her 
Father upon a Time enquir’d of her what Words she used in Prayer to 
God, she answer’d him,—‘“‘ That when she was upon her Knees God gave 
her Expressions. 

Even at the Age of four, five, & six she ask’d many astonishing Questions 
about divine Mysteries, and carefully laid up and hid the Answers she 
received to them, in her Heart... . 

Before She had seen Eighteen, she had read, and (in some measure) 
digested all the English Poetry, and polite Pieces in Prose, printed and 
Manuscripts in her Father’s well furnish’d Library, and much she 
borrow’d of her Friends and Acquaintance. She had indeed such a 
Thirst after Knowledge that the Leisure of the Day did not suffice, 
but she spent whole Nights in reading. 

I find she was sometimes fir’d with a laudable Ambition of raising 
the honour of her Sex, who are therefore under Obligations to her; 
and all will be ready to own she had a fine Genius, and is to be placed 
among those who have excell’d. 

When I was first inclin’d (by the Motions of God’s Providence and 
Spirit) to seek her Acquaintance (which was about the Time she entred 
her nineteenth Year) I was surpriz’d and charm’d to find her so accom- 
plish’d. I found her in a good measure Mistress of the politest Writers 
and their Works; could point out the Beauties in them, and had made 
many of their best Tho’ts her own: And as she went into more free 
Conversation, she discours’d how admirably on many Subjects! 

I grew by Degrees into such an Opinion of her good Taste, that when 
she put me upon translating a Psalm or two, I was ready to excuse my 
Self, and if I had not fear’d to displease her should have deny’d her 
Request. : 

After her Marriage which was on August 11th. 1726, her Custom was 
once in a Month or two, to make some new Essay in Verse or Prose, and 


Biographies and Letters 543 


to read from Day to Day as much as a faithful Discharge of the Duties 
of her new Condition gave Leisure for: and I think I may with Truth 
say, that she made the writing of Poetry a Recreation and not a Business. 

What greatly contributed to increase her Knowlege in Duvinity, 
History, Physick, Controversy, as well as Poetry, was her attentive hearing 
most that I read upon those Heads thro’ the long Evenings of the 
Winters as we sat together... . 

Having related these Things, you will not wonder if I now declare 
my self a Witness of her daily close Walk with God during her married 
State, and of her Retirements for Reading, Self-Examination and De- 
votion. 

It was her Practice to read the Bible out in Course, once in a Year, 
the Book of Psalms much oftner, besides many Chapters and a Multitude 
of Verses which she kept turn’d down in a Bible, which she had been 
the Owner and Reader of more than twenty Years. If I should only 
present my Readers with a Catalogue of these Texts, I doubt not but that 
they would admire the Collection, be gratified with the Entertainment; 
and easily conjecture many of her holy Frames and Tempers from 
them.—I must own, considering her tender Make and often Infirmities 
she exceeded in Devotion..And I have tho’t my self oblig’d sometimes 
(in Compassion to her) to call her off, and put her in mind of God’s 
delighting in Mercy more than in Sacrifice. 

How often has she lain whole Nights by me mourning for Sin, calling 
upon God, and praising him, or discoursing of Christ and Heaven? 
And when under Doubts intreating me to help her (as far as I could) 
to a full Assurance of God’s Love. Sometimes she would say, ‘Well, 
I am content if you will shew me that I have the Truth of Grace.’ And 
I often satisfy’d her with one of Mr. Baxter’s Marks of Love to Christ, 
namely, Lamenting © panting after him; for this kind of Love she was sure 
she exercis’d in the most cloudy Hours of her Life. 

I may not forget to mention the strong and constant Guard she plac’d 
at the Door of her Lips. Who ever heard her call an ill Name? or detract 
from any Body? When she apprehended she receiv’d Injuries, Silence 
and Tears were her highest Resentments. But I have often heard her 
reprove others for rash and angry Speeches. 

In every Relation she sustain’d she was truly Exemplary, sensible how 
much of the Life and Power of Religion consists in the conscientious 
Practice and Performance of Relative Duties. 

No Child had a greater Love to and Reverence for her Parents, she 
even exceeded in Fear and Reverence of her Father, notwithstanding 
all his Condescentions to her, and vast Freedoms with her, 


544 ? The Puritans 


As a Wife she was dutiful, prudent and diligent, not only content 
but joyful in her Circumstances. She submitted as is fit in the Lord, look’d 
well to the Ways of her Houshold, and her own Works praise her in the Gates. 

Her very Apparel discover’d Modesty and Chastity: She lov’d to 
appear neat and clean, but never gay and fine. 

To her Servants she was good and kind, and took care of them, 
especially of the Soul of a Slave who dy’d (in the House) about a Month 
before her. . 

She respected all her Friends and Relatives, and spake of them with 
Honour, and never forgot either their Counsels or their Kindnesses. 

She often spake of her Obligations to her Aunt Staniford, which were 
great living and dying. 

She honour’d all Men, and lov’d every Body. Love and Goodness was 
natural to her, as her Father expresses it in a Letter Years ago. 

Her tender Love to her only Sister, has been already seen; and was 
on all Occasions manifested, and grew exceedingly to her Death. A few 
Days before it, I heard her speak to her particularly of preparing for 
another World. “‘Improve (said she) the Time of Health, ’tis the only 
Time for doing the great Work in.” 

And in Return for her Love and amiable Carriage, She had the Love 
and Esteem of all that knew her. ‘Those that knew her best lov’d her best, 
and praise her most. 

Her Humility was so great, that she could well bear (without being 
elated) such Praises as are often found in her Father’s Letters to us. viz. 
**T greatly esteem as well as highly love you: The best of Children deserves all 
that a Child can of a Father: My Soul rejoyces in you: My Foy, my Crown. 
I give Thanks to God for you daily. I am honour’d in being the Father of such a 
Daughter.” 

Her Husband also, and he praiseth her as a Meet Help both in Spirituals 
and Temporals. 

Her Relations and Acquaintance ever manifested the highest Value 
for her. 

The People, among whom she liv’d the last ezght Years of her Life, 
both Old and Young had a Love and Veneration for her; as a Person of 
the strictest Virtue and undefil’d Religion. Her Innocence, Modesty, In- 
genuity, & Devotion charm’d all into an Admiration of her. And I question 
whether there has been more Grief and Sorrow shown at the Death of 
any private Person, by People of all Ranks, to whom her Virtues were 
known; Mourning, for the Loss sustain’d by our selves, not for her, nor 
as others who have no Hope. For it is beyond Doubt that she died in the 
Lord, and is Blessed. 


~@§ Chapter VI 


POETRY 


T Is a commonplace that the literature of any given period too often is 
I judged by succeeding generations according to their own standards 
of taste. Now and then an injudicious verdict is quickly reversed, espe- 
cially when no strong sentiments—sectional prejudices or violently emo- 
tional antipathies—prevent judicial appraisal. An equitable evaluation 
of colonial Puritan poetry has been difficult to make until recent years 
because, for one thing, the era as a whole in its relation to the English 
background has been neglected; and again, because much that seems 
intolerably arid today was extravagantly praised in its time; and 
finally, because many earlier verdicts have so long passed unchallenged 
that they have at last been accepted as true. For instance, the general 
reader has probably known colonial poetry only through a few ex- 
tracts from Anne Bradstreet, Michael Wigglesworth, and the Bay 
Psalm Book. Beyond that triad even scholars have not easily penetrated, 
for modern editions of the seventeenth-century colonial poets have 
rarely appeared,’ and critical estimates of Puritan verse are almost 
nonexistent.” The conjunction of two factors might be cited to explain 
the neglect: very little colonial verse has literary importance; that little, 
executed by writers who sometimes imitated only the superficialities 
of their models, was conceived according to standards which soon came 
into disfavor. The colonial Puritans, if they wrote at all, invariably 
tried their hand at versifying, and a really formidable amount of poetry 
was issued,—sometimes, as in the case of Wigglesworth, Anne Brad- 
street, and Benjamin Tompson, in book form; but more often scattered 
informally through almanacs, histories, biographies, funeral sermons, 
and broadsides in the form of elegies, anagrams, epitaphs, and oc- 
casional “‘effusions.”’ A few words, then, to bring the era into focus. 

The cultivated Puritan was in no sense an implacable foe to the arts, 
for, like the Anglicans, he expected to win from life such mental and 
spiritual comfort as it could be made to offer. He studied in the same 
universities, read the same authors, discussed the same philosophies, 
and attempted to live, as they, ‘‘A sweet self-privacy in a right soul.’ 


1 For recently published texts of Puritan verse, usually in limited editions, see 
Bibliography, p. 818, and the headings to the poetry selections. 

2 Moses C. Tyler, A History of American Literature During the Colonial Period, 1607— 
1765 (New York, 1878), chapters X and XI, first essayed a judicious criticism of 
Puritan verse. After Tyler’s History, no re-examination was made until Kenneth B. 
Murdock published his briefintroduction to Handkerchiefs from Paul (Cambridge, 1927). 

3 Henry Vaughan, Rules and Lessons, Poems (The Muses’ Library), I, 96. 

545 


546 7 The Puritans 


His traditions were likewise Renaissance and Elizabethan, and as 
there was no law or reason to the contrary in the tenets of his particular 
faith, he was educated by way of the classics. ‘Though the Bible was 
for him 
the Sacred Grammar, where 
The Rules of speaking well, contained are,! 


the Puritan expected that the example set by the classical poets might 
guide him to achieve a higher virtue in life; therefore exercises in 
imitation of Vergil and Horace were part of his school training, as 
they were for all liberally educated English boys; and among the 
modern poets Spenser, Sidney, and Du Bartas (by way of Sylvester), 
and later Milton were his favorites. In one respect only can we detect 
in his attitude a view of poetry different from that held by other Eng- 
lishmen. The Puritan centered his mind on God with a keener intensity, 
and thus more consciously withdrew his attention from ‘“‘fleshly 
schools.”” The Anglican poets juxtaposed the flesh and spirit: Herrick’s 
“Pious Pieces,’? His Noble Numbers, are no more colorful and sincere 
than his Hesperides; Donne’s secular verses occupy a greater place even 
in his works than the Divine Poems; and the same can be said of the 
Catholic poet Crashaw, whose fame was spread as far by The Delights 
of the Muses as by Carmen Deo Nostro. But for the Puritans, and especially 
for those who came to New England, God, not the world, inspired 
their ‘“‘noble numbers,” and they many times chose verse the better to 
honor Him. They were still Elizabethan enough to live intensely, 
though their ardor took a new direction. It is clear therefore that since 
the Puritan did not cut himself off from the realities which a poetic art 
can summon, he made such use of them as seemed to him most fitting. 
Fundamentally Spenser, Sidney, and Milton, the real precursors of 
lesser Puritan bards, are ethical poets, and it is the moral import of 
their art which appealed to the Puritan mind; broadly speaking, those 
great writers conceived poetry as a philosophy—the highest philosophy, 
in fact; one which taught men virtue by example, not through mere 
didacticism, but by the embodiment of every knowledge. Above all 
else, poetry, they felt, should not be written merely to delight; it should 
be, as Du Bartas’s Divine Week had shown, a speculum or compendium 
of the profoundest spiritual mysteries drawn from the most diverse 
learnings. Thus the subject matter of poetry was regarded as of highest 
consequence to men. To such a literary ideal the Puritans clung, even 
when they lacked the creative fire of their originals. 


1 Cotton Mather, Corderius Americanus (Boston, 1708), p. 29. 


Poetry | 547 


All this is not to say that the Puritans developed a conscious theory 
by which they judged poets and fashioned verses of their own. On the 
contrary, most of them probably gave it little consideration as an art; 
they thought of it simply as a means to an end, and remained curi- 
ously indifferent to the quintessential breath and finer spirit of the poetic 
idiom. It remains true, nevertheless, that they display an awareness of 
the art even though few had the talent to rise above mediocrity. It 
would seem wise to distinguish between the artistry they lacked, and 
the honor in which they held the poet’s high office. The colonial 
Puritans seldom produced fine verse, because authentic talent among 
them was rare, and that which did manifest itself was perhaps neglected 
because of the tacit assumption—followed to extremes—that matter 
counted for more than manner. Learning was all, because it led past 
the world to God. The marvel of Milton is not that a Puritan wrote 
sensuously, but that a scholar could be a poet. If lesser Puritans adopted 
only the machinery of conceits, puns, and mythological fancies, they 
did so because they lacked the feeling, not the will, to achieve a higher 
reality. 


The great poets searched for profitable doctrine which would teach 


great precepts when molded into spacious lines. Among Puritans, who 
as a Class evidenced deep interest in historical and scientific matters, 
we find in extreme form the will to teach. Others before Puritans 
had written verse for the purpose designed by John Wilson, and in 
like manner,—the authors of A Mirror for Magistrates, for instance,—yet 
Wilson’s poem, A Song or, Story For... Remembrance (see p. 552), is 
typical of much Puritan verse in style and content. Written to teach 
children the providential shaping of English history under Protestant 
rule, it is done into fourteeners to help them memorize it. For his 
matter Wilson drew upon Speed, Camden, and current tracts on the 
Gunpowder Plot. The doggerel ballad meter, universally familiar as 
that employed in the Sternhold and Hopkins version of the Psalms, 
hardly seems worthy of a gentleman who had shown a talent for Latin 
verse, and who had been nurtured at King’s College, where the Fellows 
were encouraged to study poetry and music; but the poem is a product 
of the times, and its hold during the seventeenth century was un- 
broken, for it was republished in 1680, with a preface recalling “how 
excedingly pretious the remembrance of this heavenly man of God 
is. . . . He was another sweet singer of Israel, whose heavenly Verses 
et like to the handkerchief carryed from Paul to help and uphold 
disconsolate ones, and to heal their wracked Souls, by the effectual 
prisence of Gods holy Spirit.” 


548 | The Puritans 


Probably no body of Puritan verse has seemed to modern readers 
more insensible to poetic feeling than that contained in the Bay Psalm 
Book (see p. 555). Composed as it was by ministers who labored to 
fashion suitable translations of the Psalms for vocal use in the churches, 
its angularity has often been judged either hopelessly uninspired or 
consciously hostile to grace and measure. Of course, such paraphrases ~ 
now are out of style; and any metrical translation of the Psalms, in 
addition to being shaped to a familiar tune, must compete with the 
sustained felicity of the Bible rendering. The reader who compares the 
Bay Psalm Book with versions similarly adapted by Sandys, Donne, 
Milton, and Dryden need not single out the colonial versifiers for 
apology. Evidently the metric flaws troubled the authors, for their 
revision ten years later was undertaken with the idea of smoothing the 
lines. One cannot claim for either rendering more than its authors 
intended: an exact translation with as much grace as they knew how 
to give it. Their ideal, quite defensible, proved an extreme example of 
matter heeded at the expense of art. 

No Puritan more clearly exemplifies the ideals which Puritan poets 
strove to reach than Anne Bradstreet (see pp. 561-579). Her ambitious 
discourses of Man, Monarchies, Seasons, and Elements, modeled on 
Du Bartas, pay homage to the poet as philosopher, even though Mis- 
tress Bradstreet’s muse soars with a middle-flight. The mythological 
machinery and conventional praise of nature, not as she saw it, but 
as she had often encountered it in others’ verse, were flaws which she 
acquired by poetic, not Puritan, tradition. It was, after all, the ingenious 
display of erudition in a woman which made her a “best: seller” in 
England for a short time, and won for her the appellation of “Tenth 
Muse.”’ For us she lives rather in the moments when her contemplative 
spirit stirs to life a theme which touched her heart. A tender wistfulness _ 
plays through the lines which she wrote “vpon the burning of our: 
house”’: + A : 

'*.. 2. Here stood that Trunk, and there that chest; 
There lay that store I covnted best: 


My pleasant things in ashes lye, 
And them behold no more shall I.? 


Except it be Jonathan Edwards, no Puritan has more often been 
cited as the embodiment of repulsive joylessness than Michael Wiggles- 
worth; his Day of Doom is still reckoned a monstrous example of unre- 
lieved horror. Yet Wigglesworth’s purpose was similar to that of Wilson. 
When Cotton Mather preached the funeral sermon for Wigglesworth, 

1 See p. 578. 


Poetry 549 


‘& 


he recalled that the late Malden pastor had written “‘several Com- 
posures, wherein he proposed the Edification of such Readers, as are 
for Truth’s dressed up in a Plain Meeter.”’ 1 Indeed, the “‘Little Feeble 
Shadow of a Man,” as Mather called him, whose health was so poor 
that he gave up his college tutorship, preached but seldom, and turned 
down the Harvard presidency in 1684, had written an epic that was 
also a “best seller.” The grim intensity of its vivid descriptions must 
have struck terror in the hearts of many a child who was compelled to 
memorize its doggerel staves, and belied the character of the country 
parson and doctor whose nature was essentially guileless and gentle.. 
The verses in his second published volume, Meat out of the Eater, 
rivaled in popularity The Day of Doom. The songs and meditations 
are written in the same monotonous fourteeners adopted in the 
earlier epic, but though rude, the stanzas are alive and occasionally 
touching. The merits of Wigglesworth’s poetry today are more clearly 
felt in the tonal quality of such lines as those from A Song of Emptiness, 
fashioned on the ubz sunt theme: 


If Beauty could the beautiful defend 

From Death’s dominion, than slain Absalom 
Had not been brought to such a shameful end: 
But fair and foul unto the Grave must come. 


If Wealth or Scepters could Immortal make, 

Then wealthy Croesus, wherefore art thou dead? 

If Warlike force, which makes the World to quake, 
Then why is Julius Caesar perished? 


Where are the Sczpio’s Thunder-bolts of War? 
Renowned Pompey, Caesars Enemie? 

Stout Hannibal, Romes Terror known so far? 
Great Alexander, what’s become of thee? 


If Gifts and Bribes Death’s favour might but win,... 
All these, and more, had still surviving been: .. . 2 


We must bear in mind that the doctrines of God’s immutable justice, 

which Wigglesworth ‘‘dressed up in a Plain Meeter,’? were not in their 

day considered unlovely. Cotton Mather tells how John Cotton felt 

about the matter: “And being asked, why in his Latter Dayes, he In- 
1 A Faithful Man, Described and Rewarded (Boston, 1705), p. 24. 


* With the somewhat prolix second and fourth lines removed, the resulting couplet 
produces, with the preceding three stanzas, a highly creditable sonnet. 


550 | The Puritans 


dulged Nocturnal Studies, more than formerly, he pleasantly Replied, 
Because I Love to Sweeten my mouth with a piece of Calvin, before I go to sleep.” + 
Jonathan Edwards later described in his “Personal Narrative’ how he 
found the doctrine of God’s absolute sovereignty and justice with re- 
spect to salvation and damnation exceedingly pleasant, bright, and 
sweet. 

The Puritans wrote their most ambitious poems for “‘edification,”’ 
but some of the most appealing and sprightly lines are the commenda- 
tory pieces written, in the current fashion, sometimes to launch an 
author before the public (see p. 580), or perhaps, spontaneously con- 
ceived—as the stalwart lines of Edward Johnson,—to hymn God’s 
wonder-working providence (see p. 630). Much of the beauty of 
Johnson’s verse lies hidden in the elusive overtones of passionate con- 
viction and half-realized felicities that are felt rather than heard. Even 
less purposeful than any verses yet discussed were those “‘composures”’ 
of the young college graduates who during the seventeenth century 
prepared the yearly almanacs, and were allowed to fill any blank | 
’ spaces as a remuneration for the fussy task; the authors chose usually 
to write an essay on science, or perhaps a poem. The theme in either 
case was appropriate to the work in hand, and the resulting verses 
derived their inspiration from Vergilian themes wherein the signs of 
the zodiac intertwine with classic mythology:—often the ornate narra- 
tive recounts Apollo’s wooing of the earth goddess Tellus. The imagery 
by which Thomas Shepard allegorized September in the Almanack for 
1656 is unusually tempered and graceful: 


The glorious Monarch of the Sky, 
Times moderator, keep’s his Court, 
The Scoales of Justice hanging by 
The golden Mean. And here resort 
Pomona bringing mellow fruit, 

And Ceres corn upon her back, 
And kind Silvanus spread’s this bruit; 
His budget’s full of nutts to crack. 


The florid style sometimes gave way to allegory on contemporary 
events, as for instance the lines of Samuel Danforth in the Almanack 
for 1647, where the stanza for September offers the suggestion that 


Four heads should meet and counsell have, 
The chickens from the kite to save, 


1 Fohannes in Eremo (Boston, 1695), p. 54. 


Poetry pb I 


The idle drones away to drive, 

The little Bees to keep 1’ th’ hive. 
How honey may be brought to these 
By making fish to dance on trees.1 


“Thus the Cambridge Almanac became the annual poetry magazine 
of Harvard College.” ? 

It has been queried why the Puritans so delighted in conceits and 
strained rhetorical figures, in anagrams and acrostics; ? indeed, the 
fad at times was carried to extravagant lengths. As its worst it produced 
such verses as Benjamin Tompson’s ‘‘Funeral Tribute’? to Governor 
Winthrop of Connecticut, opening thus: 


Another Black Parenthesis of woe. 

The Printer wills that all the World should know 
Sage Winthrop prest with publick sorrow Dies 
As the sum total of our Miseries.* 


But the Puritan elegy at its best, as in Oakes’s lament for Shepard (see 
p. 641), achieves a dignity and heartfelt simplicity, a tender pathos 
that goes far to redeem Puritan elegiac verse from the oblivion into 
which most of it has fallen. Tompson (see p. 635) was a poet of very 
local reputation, at his best in satire, whose achievements were evi- 
dently modeled on the extravagant commonplaces of Quarles; they 
reflect one popular literary fashion shaped to native material. 

Of the colonial writers whose poetic accomplishments fall within 
the later Puritan era, Roger Wolcott and Mather Byles won some 
recognition. The verse of Wolcott (see p. 657), like that of Tompson, 
has small merit. The meditations of the future statesman and soldier 
on Biblical themes ally him with the Puritans of the seventeenth cen- 
tury, and his ambitious narrative of the agency of Winthrop at King 
Charles’s court is the first colonial epic in patriotic strain. The couplets, 

1 The allegory is not very clear, but the ‘“‘four heads” evidently refer to the united 
colonies of New England; the “‘hive’’ is Harvard College; the last two lines suggest 
that the college should be aided by a tax on the fishing industry. For interpretation, 
see K. B. Murdock, Handkerchiefs from Paul, pp. 101-111. 

2 Samuel E. Morison, Harvard College in the Seventeenth Century, p. 133. 

3 See Murdock, op. cit., p. liv. A possible explanation is suggested by the Puritan’s 
exaggerated desire to find God’s shaping hand in all affairs, and by all symbolic, 
implicit, or elaborate means. “‘A Glass of spirits my Wife sent stood upon a Joint-Stool 
which, Simon W[illard] jogging, it fell down and broke all to shivers: I said twas a 
lively Emblem of our Fragility and Mortality” (Diary of Samuel Sewall, I, 460). It is an 
easy transfer, once the mind is thinking ‘“‘emblematically,” to heighten any figure by 
elaborate device. 


* Benjamin Tompson . . . His Poems, ed. Howard J. Hall (Boston, 1924), p. 99; froma 
unique broadside. 


552 | ; The Puritans — 


sad rubbish though they be, seem to look forward to the more pre- 
tentious American epics of the late eighteenth century written by 
Humphrey, Dwight, Barlow, and Trumbull. The greater part of Byles’s 
verses fall outside the Puritan era both in time and in spirit. “An Hymn 
to Christ’”’ (see p. 663) is in some measure a link between the earlier | 
period when men wrote to honor Christ, and the later more urbane 
decades when English literary fashions, set by Pope, Thomson, and 
Watts, were cleaving to new molds. Those who would seek representa- 
tive selections of the punster’s ready wit, or enjoy the light vein of his 
pleasant humor, must turn to such verses as he published after the 
Puritan years had passed. | 

The intrinsic value of Puritan poetry, even when the best of it is 
singled out for commendation, is apparent only in snatches. Two 
. Puritans only were distinguished in their own time, Anne Bradstreet 
and Michael Wigglesworth; and such characteristics of their verses 
as were praised by their contemporaries are now more harshly judged. 
To modern eyes the undigested narrative summaries, the severe theol- 
ogy, and the edifying tone are frankly boring. Moments of inspiration 
they have in a phrase, a line, or a single poem. Perhaps we scrutinize too 
closely if we expect to discover finished poets in a country so remote 
from literary inspiration, among people whose purpose in writing was 
generally to edify. The one poet whose stature may well develop as 
time reveals him has been—at his own wish—forgotten; yet Edward 
Taylor (see p. 650) speaks perhaps with a more genuinely inspired 
voice than any other colonial poet. His fertility in image-making, his 
rapture, tenderness, delicacy, and intense devotion communicate 
somcthing of the fervor which the man himself derived from his sacra- 
mental meditations. They give us one authentic indication that the 
indigenous Puritan muse, even when tied down to the fashions of an 
earlier style, soared with metaphoric brilliance. 


JOHN WILSON, 1588-1667 


[John Wilson, one of the two ministers who emigrated with Winthrop 
in 1630, is now chiefly remembered for his opposition to the Antinomian 
heresy and for his persecution of Anne Hutchinson. He was, in fact, 
a scholar eminent for his learning and attainments. Admitted to King’s 
College, Cambridge, in 1605, he became three years later a Fellow 
of that royal institution. For a short time he devoted himself to the 
law, but through the influence of his friends Richard Rogers and 
William Ames—distinguished Puritans both,—he adopted the Congre- 


Poetry 553 


gational way. In trouble for nonconformity, he came to Boston as 
minister of the church which he served for the remaining thirty-seven 
years of his life. 

In 1626, he published in London A Song or, Story, For the Lasting Re- 
membrance of diuerse famous works, which God hath done in our time, a 
second edition of which appeared in Boston in 1680, entitled A Song 
of Deliverance for the Lasting Remembrance of Gods Wonderful Works never to 
be Forgotten. Few of his sermons were ever published. Cotton Mather 
wrote his Life in 1695, Memoria Wilsoniana (bound into his Life of the 
Reverend John Cotton, Johannes in Eremo), later incorporated in the 
Magnalia (1702). The 1680 edition of the poem is available in complete 
form in Kenneth B. Murdock, Handkerchiefs from Paul (Cambridge, 
1927), together with a biographical and critical introduction. See also 
Savage, Genealogical Dictionary; and Samuel E. Morison, The Founding 
of Harvard College (Cambridge, 1935), passim. The text below is from a 
photostat copy of the first edition (pp. 37-40) in the British Museum.] 


THE LONDON PLAGUE 


From A Song or, Story, For the Lasting Remembrance of diuerse 
Samous works. 


1625 


N THE one thousand yeare of God, 
Sixe hundred twenty fiue, 
Was sent the Pestilentiall rod, 
Our rockie hearts to riue. 
In the chiefe Citty of the Realme, 
It had the chiefest seate: 
There like a sea to ouerwhelme, 
Pride that was growne so great; 
Or like a fire to purge away, 
The drosse of hatefull sinne; 
Or like a trumpet thence to fray, 
The sleepe that soules were in. 
The Queene of Cities wont to sit, 
In Chaire of highest state, 
Now sate in dust and lowest pit, 
All sad and desolate: 
The highest Court of Parlament, 
To Oxford did remooue. 
The Tearmers were to Redding sent, 
Their Titles there to prooue. 


554 ‘ The Puritans 


Nor were the strangers strange alone, 
To the infected City; 

But her best louers all were gone, 
And left her without pitty. 

I meane, the rich did flocke away, 
And bad her streetes adew,. 

Except the poore (which needes must stay) 
There stayed but a few. 

Nothing was heard but passing-bels, 
And friends their friends lamenting, 

Nothing but heauy dolefull-knells. 
(Death not at all relenting) 

Nothing was seene but heapes of dead, 
To feede the hungrie graue; 

Or others lying sicke a bed, 
(No way their life to saue.) 

Some looked pale, and some with paine, 
Were forc’t to raue and roare, 

Some did the deadly markes sustaine, 
And some the deadly sore: 

In one yeares space, or lesse then so, 
(From time the Plague began) 

To what a number did they grow, 
That death grip’t in his spanne? 

Sixtie two thousand at the least, 
Sixe hundred seuenty seuen, 

Were made appeare by deaths arrest, 
Before the God of heauen. 

Yea, do but from Iunes second looke 
Vnto Decembers last, 

Scarse shall you reade in English-booke 
Of like doome euer past. 7 

Within this three months space alone, 
As hath bin duly counted, 

Fiftie three thousand ninetie one, 
By Bills report amounted.? 

In London and the Liberties, 
(Sixe moe 3 neere Parishes adde,) 

All the forenamed clos’d their eies, 
And made their friends full sad. 

More dyde in this than former pest, 
By th’heauy hand of God; 

In thirteene weekes (to say the lest) 
Eleuen thousand fortie and odde. 


Poetry 555 


Of all which summes, the greatest part 
By death departed thence, 

Were pearced through with fire dart, 
Of raging Pestilence. 

If within and without one Cittie Walls, 
Were found of men such lacke, 

More then six myriades of soules 
Brought to so heauy wracke: 

Oh then what was the wrecke and spoile, 
Of all the land beside, 

In Cities and in Country soyle, 
Throughout the kingdome wide? 

Trading grew dead, and mony scant, 
The rich doubting their state, 


The poore were pinched sore with want, 
All fear’d the dismall fate. 


THE BAY PSALM BOOK 


[Only ten known copies survive of The Whole Booke of Psalmes Faithfully 
Translated into English Metre (Cambridge, 1640), from an edition that 
numbered seventeen hundred. The volumes were worn threadbare 
- with use; a second printing was issued in 1647, and within the next 
hundred years twenty-five more printings were necessary. Generally 
known as the Bay Psalm Book, it was the first book issued in the 
American colonies—preceded only by a broadside sheet, the Freeman’s 
Oath, and by the 1639 Alamanac—and is probably the first book in 
English printed in North America. 

Typographically it bears marks of hasty or unskilled workmanship; 
its prosodic merits are few, but not quite so few as Tyler implied when 
he called it “a poetic phenomenon, happily unique, we may hope, 
in all the literatures of English speech” (A History of American Literature, 
I, 274, 275). The authors, Thomas Weld, John Eliot, and Richard 
Mather, were university-trained ministers who perhaps “‘for the meetre 
sake’? should not have refused Francis Quarles’s offer to help in the 
composition. But they were translating the Hebrew with what seemed 
to them fitting exactness. “‘Neither let any think,’’ Mather explains in 
the preface (see p. 670), “that for the meetre sake wee have taken liberty 
or poeticall licence to depart from the true and proper sence of Davids 
words in the hebrew verses, noe; . . . Gods Altar needs not our pol- 
lishings.’’ Indeed, its purpose was to replace the Sternhold and Hopkins 
version currently used, a text which, because of its departure from the 


556 7 ee The Puritans 


original and its sacrifice of a literal rendering for poetic effect, troubled 
the straightforward Puritan’s scholarly conscience. 

But even from the beginning the rude lines of the Bay Psalms were 
not regarded as sacrosanct. The first two editions (1640, 1647) having © 
run out, what was in effect a third appeared in 1651: The Psalms Hymns 
And Spiritual Songs Of the Old and New Testament, faithfully translated into | 
English metre. President Dunster of Harvard, assisted by a Mr. Richard 
Lyon, took the work over, “having a special ey,’ as the preface 
explains, “both to the gravity of the phrase’? and “sweetnes of the 
verse.”” The new editors added translations from other books of the 
Bible, principally from the Songs of Solomon. The changes they ef- 
fected are occasionally an improvement. 

“It was thought,’ Cotton Mather said a half-century later (Magnalia, 
III, roo), ‘“‘that a little more of Art was to be employ’d upon the verses”’; 
and this edition, thus ‘“‘Revised and Refined,”’ continued to be standard 
until the aged Reverend John Barnard of Marblehead brought forth 
A New Version of the Psalms of David at Boston in 1752. He states by 
way of preface that the older version “is generally very good, and few of 
the same Age may be compar’d with it; yet the Flux of Languages has 
rendered several Phrases in it obsolete .. .”’ His ideal, however, was 
still that of the first generation. ‘““My great Care has been to keep as 
close to the Original as I could... And all ina Stile... adapted to 
the Capacity of our Christian Assemblies; neither in such Flights of 
Poetry as soar above them, nor yet so low, I trust, as to be contempti- 
ble.”? His version, in turn, was superseded by one published by Thomas 
Prince in 1758. 

The 1640 edition was reprinted at Cambridge in 1862, and repro- 
duced in facsimile with an introduction by Wilberforce Eames at New 
York in 1903. The text of the Dunster-Lyon selections below follows the 
unique copy in the New York Public Library. The verses are from the 
1640 edition, however, unless otherwise stated. | 


THE PSALMS 
23 A PsaumME oF DAvID. 


HE LORD to mee a shepheard is, want therefore shall not I. 
at 2 Hee in the folds of tender-grasse, doth cause mee downe to lie: 
To waters calme me gently leads (3) Restore my soule doth hee: 
he doth in paths of righteousnes: for his names sake leade mee, 
4 Yea though in valley of deaths shade I walk, none ill [le feare: 
because thou art with mee, thy rod, and staffe my comfort are. 


Poetry 557 


5 For mee a table thou hast spread, in presence of my foes: 

thou dost annoynt my head with oyle, my cup it over-flowes. 
6 Goodnes & mercy surely shall all my dayes follow mee: 

and in the Lords house I shall dwell so long as dayes shall bee. 


Psat: XXIII. A Psatm or Davo. 


HE LORD to me a shepheard is: want therfore shall not I. 
ae 2 Hee in the foulds of tender grass doth make me down to ly: 
Hee leads me to the waters still. (3) Restore my soul doth hee;_ 
In paths of righteousness, he will for his names sake lead mee. 


4 In valley of deaths shade although I walk I’le fear none ill: 
For thou with me thy rod, also thy staff me comfort will. 

5 Thou hast ’fore me a table spread, in presence of my foes: 
Thou dost anoint with oyle my head, my cup it ouer-flowes. 


6 Goodness and mercy my dayes all shall surely follow mee: 
And in the Lorps house dwell I shall so long as dayes shall bee. 


[From Dunster-Lyon revision, 1651] 


PsSALME 107. 
O GIVE yee thanks unto the Lord, because that good is hee: 


because his loving kindenes lasts to perpetuitee. 
2 So let the Lords redeem’d say: whom hee freed from th’enemies 
hands: 
3 And gathred them from East, & West, from South, & Northerne 
lands. 
4 I’th desart, in a desart way they wandred: no towne finde, 
5 to dwell in. Hungry & thirsty: their soule within them pinde. 
[6] Then did they to Iehovah cry when they were in distresse: 
who did them set at liberty out of their anguishes. 
7 In such a way that was most right he led them forth also: 
that to a citty which they might inhabit they might go. 
8 O that men would Iehovah prayse for his great goodnes then: 
& for his workings wonderfull unto the sonnes of men. 
9 Because that he the longing soule doth throughly satisfy: 
the hungry soule he also fills with good abundantly. 


(2) 
to Such as in darknes’ and within the shade of death abide; - 
who are in sore affliction, also in yron tyde: 
11 By reason that against the words of God they did rebell; 
also of him that is most high contemned the counsell. 
12 Therefore with molestation hee did bring downe their heart: 
downe did they fall, & none their was could help to them impart. 


559 The Puritans 


13 
14 
iS 
16 


33 


Then did they to Iehovah cry when they were in distress: 

who did them set at liberty out of their anguishes. 

He did them out of darknes bring, also deaths shade from under: 
as for the bands that they were in he did them break asunder. 

O that men would Iehovah prayse for his great goodnes then: 
and for his workings wonderfull unto the sonnes of men. 

For he hath all to shivers broke the gates that were of brasse: 

& hee asunder cut each barre that made of yron was. 


(3) 


For their transgressions & their sins, fooles doe affliction beare. 

All kinde of meate their soule abhorres: to deaths gate they draw 
neare. 

Then did they to Iehovah cry when they were in distress: 

who did them set at liberty out of their anguishes. 

He, sent his word, & therewithall healing to them he gave: 

from out of their destructions he did them also save. 

O that men would Iehovah prayse, for his great goodnes then: 

& for his workings wonderfull unto the sons of men. 

And sacrifices sacrifice let them of thanksgiving: 

& while his works they doe declare let them for gladnes sing. 


(4) 


They that goe downe to’th sea in ships: their busines there to doo 

in waters great. The Lords work see, ith deep his wonders too. 

Because that he the stormy winde commandeth to arise: 

which lifteth up the waves therof, (26) They mount up to the skyes: 

Downe goe they to the depths againe, their soule with ill doth 
quaile. 

They reele, & stagger, drunkard like, and all their witt doth faile. 

Then did they to Iehovah cry when they were in distress: 

and therupon he bringeth them out of their anguishes. 

Hee makes the storme a calme: so that the waves therof are still. 

Their rest then glads them; he them brings to’th hav’n which they 
did will. 

O that men would Iehovah prayse for his great goodnes then: 

& for his workings wonderfull unto the sons of men. 

Also within the peoples Church him let them highly rayse: 

where Elders are assembled, there him also let them prayse. 


(5) 


He rivers to a desart turnes, to drought the springing well: 


34 A fruitfull soyle to barrennes; for their sin there that dwell. 


35 


The desart toa poole he turnes; and dry ground to a spring. 


Poetry 559 


36 Seates there the hungry; who prepare their towne of habiting, 
37 Vineyards there also for to plant, also to sow the field; 
which may unto them fruitfull things of much revenue yield. 
38 Also he blesseth them, so that they greatly are increast: 
and for to be diminished he suffers not their beast. 
39 Againe they are diminished & they are brought downe low, 
by reason of their pressing-streights, affliction & sorrow. 


(6) 
40 On Princes he contempt doth powre; and causeth them to stray 
ith solitary wildernes, wherin there is no way. 
41 Yet hee out of affliction doth make the poore to rise: 
& like as if it were a flock doth make him families. 
42 The righteous shall it behold, and he shall joyfull bee: 
in silence stop her mouth also shall all iniquitee. 
43 Who so is wise, & who so will these things attentive learne: 
the loving kindenes of the Lord they clearely shall discerne. 


Psat: CVII. 
Gods goodnes to Travellers. 


(1) 
ITH thanks unto y® Lorp confess, because that good is hee: 
Because his loving kindnesses last to eternitie. 
2 So say the Lorps redeem’d, whom bought he hath from th’enemys 
hands. 
3 And from the East, & west hath brought from South, and northern 
lands. 
4 Ith desert stray’d in desert way, no dwelling Town they find. 
5 They hungry were, and thirstie they, their souls within them pin’d. 
6 Then did they to Jehovah cry, when they were in distress: 
Who did them set at liberty, out of their anguishes. 


7 In such a way as was most right, he led them forth also: 
That to a Citty which they might inhabit, they might go. 

8 O that men praise Jehovah would, for his great goodnes then! 
And for his wonders manifold unto the sonns of men! 


[From Dunster-Lyon revision, 1651] 


PsALME 141. A PsALME OF DaAviD. 


GoD, my Lord, on thee I call, doe thou make hast to mee: 
O and harken thou unto my voice, when I cry unto thee. 
2 And let my pray’r directed be as incense in thy sight: 
and the up-lifting of my hands as sacrifice at night. 


560 The Puritans 


3 Iehovah: oh that thou would’st set a watch my mouth before: 
as also of my lips with care o doe [thou] keepe the dore. 

4 Bow not my heart to evill things; to doe the wicked deed 
with wicked workers: & let not mee of their dainties feed. 

5 Let just-men smite mee, kindenes ’tis; let him reprove mee eke, 
it shall be such a pretious oyle, my head it shall not breake: 


For yet my prayr’s ev’n in their woes. (6) When their judges are 


cast 


on rocks, then shall they heare my words, for they are sweet to 


taste. 
7 Like unto one who on the earth doth cutt & cleave the wood, 
ev’n so our bones at the graves mouth are scattered abroad. 
8 But unto thee o God, the Lord directed are mine eyes: 
my soule o leave not destitute, on thee my hope relyes. 


9g O doe thou keepe mee from the snare which they have layd for 


mee; 
& also from the grins of those that work iniquitee. 
10 Together into their owne nets o let the wicked fall: 
untill such time that I escape may make from them withall. 


SoLomons Sonc CuHap: 6. 


AIREST of women, whither is thy loved gone away: 


Where is thy love by-turn’d, that so seek him with thee wee may. 


2 My love to’s gardens down is gone: into the beds of spice, 
To feed in gardens, and to get the lilly-flowrs likewise. 


3 I am for my beloved one, and my belov’d for mee: 

And feed among the lilly-flowers continually doth hee. 

4 Thou art my love as Tirza neat, fair as Jerusalem, 

Yea, terrible, as is an hoast, that doth with banners stream. 


5 Turn thou from me thine eyes, because they have me overcome: 
Thine hair is as a flock of goats, which look from Gilead down. 
6 Thy teeth are as a flock of sheep, up from the washing gone, 
Wherof each one bears twinns, of them ther’s not a barren one. 


7 And in such wise within thy locks, thy temples placed are: 
That to a piece of Pomgranate, the same I may compare. 

8 Of Queens threescore, and fourscore is of concubins the count, 
There are so many Virgins as all number do surmount. 


g My dove, my undefiled one, shee is her mothers one: 
Of her that did her bear Angie! shee is the choicest one: 
The daughters, when they her beheld, they did her blessed call, 
Yea both the Queens, and concubins, they praysed her withall. 


Poetry 561 


10 Who’s shee y* looks as morning forth, fair as the Moon so bright? 
Clear as the Sun, and terrible as hoasts with banners dight? 

11 To’th garden of the nuts I went down, valley fruits to see: 

To see, if Vines did bud, if bloom did the Pomegranate tree. 


12 My soul had placed me before I ever was aware, 

Upon the charriots of them that my willing people are.. 

13 Turn, turn, O Shulamite, turn, turn, that wee may look on thee: 
What will you see ’th Shulamite, as two camps company. 


[From Dunster-Lyon revision, 1651] 


ANNE BRADSTREET, 1612-1672 


[The Tenth Muse Lately sprung up in America. or Severall Poems, compiled 
with great variety of Wit and Learning, full of delight (London, 1650), 
by Anne Bradstreet, was the first important book of poems written in 
America. Daughter of Thomas Dudley, who later became governor 
of the Bay Colony, she married at sixteen Simon Bradstreet, emigrated 
with him in 1630, and lived a frontier life in North Andover, Massa- 
chusetts, on a farm near the Merrimac River. Here, as devoted wife 
to the man who advanced to governor and royal councillor, she raised 
her large family, and in moments of leisure wrote a long poem in praise 
of the seasons, “‘together with an exact epitome of the four monarchies,”’ 
and songs honoring Queen Elizabeth, Sidney, Spenser, and Du Bartas. 
These somewhat frigid manuscript verses were taken to London by her 
brother-in-law and published without her knowledge. They won the 
attention of the public to such a degree that Edward Phillips in Thea- 
trum Poetarum (1675) pronounced them ‘“‘not yet wholly extinct.” 

Her best lyrics, however, were inspired by native settings of the 
world about her or the homely events of her daily life, and a second 
edition: Several Poems Compiled... By a Gentlewoman in New-England 
.. . Corrected by the Author was issued posthumously at Boston in 1678. 
It incorporated the “‘Contemplations,” “The Flesh and the Spirit,” 
and the delightful verses upon her husband and children. A few poems, 
including the ‘‘Meditations,’’ remained in manuscript until John H. 
Ellis brought out the definitive edition of her Works at Charlestown, 
Massachusetts, in 1867 (reprinted in New York, 1932). Her burial place 
is unknown, and no portrait of her is known to exist. 

See Oscar Wegelin, comp., ‘“‘A List of Editions of the Poems of 
Anne Bradstreet, with Several Additional Books Relating to Her,” 
American Book Collector, IV (1933), 15-16. See Bibliography (p. 814) for 
titles of biographies. Accounts also appear in Cotton Mather, Magnalza, 


562 The Puritans 


Book II, 17; Tyler, A History of American Literature, 1, 277-292; and Dic- 
tionary of American Biography. See especially the sketch in Samuel E. 
Morison, Builders of the Bay Colony, chapter XI. The text of all but 
““Meditations,”’ ““Verses vpon the burning of our house,” and “Longing | 
for Heaven’’ is from the second edition; the above named are from 


Works, ed. Ellis, 1932.] 


THE TENTH MUSE 
THE Four SEASONS OF THE YEAR. 
Spring. 
NOTHER four I’ve left yet to bring on, 

A Of four times four the last Quaternion, 
The Winter, Summer, Autumn & the Spring, 
In season all these Seasons I shall bring: 
Sweet Spring like man in his Minority, 
At present claim’d, and had priority. 
With smiling face and garments somewhat green, 
She trim’d her locks, which late had frosted been, 
Nor hot nor cold, she spake, but with a breath, 
Fit to revive, the nummed earth from death. 
Three months (quoth she) are ’lotted to my share 
March, April, May of all the rest most fair. 
Tenth of the first, Sol into Aries enters, 
And bids defiance to all tedious winters, 
Crosseth the Line, and equals night and day, 
(Stil adds to th’ last til after pleasant May) 
And now makes glad the darkned northern wights 
Who for some months have seen but starry lights. 
Now goes the Plow-man to his merry toyle, 
He might unloose his winter locked soyl: 
The Seeds-man too, doth lavish out his grain, 
In hope the more he casts, the more to gain: 
The Gardner now superfluous branches lops, 
And poles erects for his young clambring hops. 
Now digs then sowes his herbs, his flowers & roots 
And carefully manures his trees of fruits. 
The Pleiades their influence now give, 
And all that seem’d as dead afresh doth live. 
The croaking frogs, whom nipping winter kil’d 
Like birds now chirp, and hop about the field, 
The Nightingale, the black bird and the Thrush 
Now tune their layes, on sprayes of every bush. 


Poetry 


The wanton frisking Kid, and soft-fleec’d Lambs 
Do jump and play before their feeding Dams, 
The tender tops of budding grass they crop, 
They joy in what they have, but more in hope: 
For though the frost hath lost his binding power, 
Yet many a fleece of snow and stormy shower 
Doth darken Sol’s bright eye, makes us remember 
The pinching North-west wind of cold December. 
My second moneth is April, green and fair, 

Of longer dayes, and a more temperate Air: 

The Sun in Taurus keeps his residence, __ 

And with his warmer beams glanceth from thence. 
This is the month whose fruitful showrs produces 
All set and sown for all delights and uses: 

The Pear the Plum, and Apple tree now flourish 
The grass grows long the hungry beast to nourish. 
The Primrose pale, and azure violet 

Among the virduous grass hath nature set, 

That when the Sun on’s Love (the earth) doth shine, 
These might as lace set out her garment fine. 
The fearfull bird his little house now builds 

In trees and walls, in Cities and in fields. 

The outside strong, the inside warm and neat; 

A natural Artificer compleat: 

The clocking hen her chirping chickins leads 
With wings & beak defends them from the gleads.? 
My next and last is fruitfull pleasant May, 
Wherein the earth is clad in rich aray, 

The Sun now enters loving Gemini, 

And heats us with the glances of his eye, 

Our thicker rayment makes us lay aside 

Lest by his fervor we be torrifi’d. 

All flowers the Sun now with his beams discloses, 
Except the double pinks and matchless Roses. 
Now swarms the busy, witty, honey-Bee, 

Whose praise deserves a page from more then me 
The cleanly Huswifes Dary’s now in th’ prime, 
Her shelves and firkins ? fill’d for winter time. 
The meads with Cowslips, Honey-suckles dight, 
One hangs his head, the other stands upright: 
But both rejoyce at th’ heavens clear smiling face, 
More at her showers, which water them a space. 
For fruits my Season yields the early Cherry, 

The hasty Peas, and wholsome cool Strawberry. 
More solid fruits require a longer time, 


The Puritans 


Each Season hath his fruit, so hath each Clime: 
Each man his own peculiar excellence, 

But none in all that hath preheminence. 

Sweet fragrant Spring, with thy short pittance fly 
Let some describe thee better then can I. 

Yet above all this priviledg is thine, 

Thy dayes still lengthen without least decline. 


CONTEMPLATIONS. 


OME time now past in the Autumnal Tide, 
S When Phebus wanted but one hour to bed, 
The trees all richly clad, yet void of pride, 
Where gilded o’re by his rich golden head. 
Their leaves & fruits seem’d painted, but was true 
Of green, of red, of yellow, mixed hew, 
Rapt were my sences at this delectable view. 


2 


I wist not what to wish, yet sure thought I, 

If so much excellence abide below; 

How excellent is he that dwells on high? 

Whose power and beauty by his works we know. 

Sure he is goodness, wisdome, glory, light, 

That hath this under world so richly dight: 

More Heaven then Earth was here, no winter & no night. 


3 


Then on a stately Oak I cast mine Eye, 

Whose ruffling top the Clouds seem’d to aspire; 
How long since thou wast in thine Infancy? 

Thy strength, and stature, more thy years admire, 
Hath hundred winters past since thou wast born? 
Or thousand since thou brakest thy shell of horn, 
If so, all these as nought, Eternity doth scorn. 


4 


Then higher on the glistering Sun I gaz’d, 
Whose beams was shaded by the leavie Tree, 
The more I look’d, the more I grew amaz’d, 
And softly said, what glory’s like to thee? 

Soul of this world, this Universes Eye, 

No wonder, some made thee a Deity: 

Had I not better known, (alas) the same had I. 


Poetry 


5 


Thou as a Bridegroom from thy Chamber rushes, 
And as a strong man, joyes to run a race, 

The morn doth usher thee, with smiles & blushes, 
The Earth reflects her glances in thy face. 

Birds, insects, Animals with Vegative, 

Thy heart from death and dulness doth revive: 


And in the darksome womb of fruitful nature dive. 


6 


Thy swift Annual, and diurnal Course, 

Thy daily streight, and yearly oblique path, 

Thy pleasing fervor, and thy scorching force, 

All mortals here the feeling knowledg hath. 

Thy presence makes it day, thy absence night, 
Quaternal Seasons caused by thy might: 

Hail Creature, full of sweetness, beauty & delight. 


7 


Art thou so full of glory, that no Eye 

Hath strength, thy shining Rayes once to behold? 
And is thy splendid Throne erect so high? 

As to approach it, can no earthly mould. 

How full of glory then must thy Creator be? 
Who gave this bright light luster unto thee: 
Admir’d, ador’d for ever, be that Majesty. 


8 


Silent alone, where none or saw, or heard, 
In pathless paths I lead my wandring feet, 
My humble Eyes to lofty Skyes I rear’d 


To sing some Song, my mazed Muse thought meet. 


My great Creator I would magnifie, 
That nature had, thus decked liberally: 
But Ah, and Ah, again, my imbecility! 


9 


I heard the merry grashopper then sing, 

The black clad Cricket, bear a second part, 

They kept one tune, and plaid on the same string, 
Seeming to glory in their little Art. 

Shall Creatures abject, thus their voices raise? 
And in their kind resound their makers praise: 


Whilst I as mute, can warble forth no higher layes. 


565 


The Puritans 


10 


When present times look back to Ages past, 
And men in being fancy those are dead, 
It makes things gone perpetually to last, 
. And calls back moneths and years that long since fled. 
It makes a man more aged in conceit, » 
Then was Methuselah, or’s grand-sire great: 
While of their persons & their acts his mind doth treat. 


II 


Sometimes in Eden fair, he seems to be, 

Sees glorious Adam there made Lord of all, 
Fancyes the Apple, dangle on the Tree, 

That turn’d his Sovereign to a naked thral. 
Who like a miscreant’s driven from that place, 
To get his bread with pain, and sweat of face: 
A penalty impos’d on his backsliding Race. 


i 


Here sits our Grandame in retired place, 
And in her lap, her bloody Cain new born, 
The weeping Imp oft looks her in the face, 
‘Bewails his unknown hap, and fate forlorn; 
His Mother sighs, to think of Paradise, 

And how she lost her bliss, to be more wise, 
Believing him that was, and is, Father of lyes. 


ae) 
Here Cain and Abel come to sacrifice, 
Fruits of the Earth, and Fatlings each do bring, 
On Abels gift the fire descends from Skies, 
But no such sign on false Cain’s offering; 
With sullen hateful looks he goes his wayes. 
Hath thousand thoughts to end his brothers dayes, 
Upon whose blood his future good he hopes to raise 


14 
There Abel keeps his sheep, no ill he thinks, 
His brother comes, then acts his fratricide, 
The Virgin Earth, of blood her first draught drinks 
But since that time she often hath been cloy’d; 
The wretch with gastly face and dreadful mind, 
Thinks each he sees will serve him in his kind, 
Though none on Earth but kindred near then could he find. 


Poetry 


1S 
Who fancyes not his looks now at the Barr, 
His face like death, his heart with horror fraught, 
Nor Male-factor ever felt like warr, 
When deep dispair, with wish of life hath sought, 
Branded with guilt, and crusht with treble woes, 
A Vagabond to Land of Nod 3 he goes. 
A City builds, that wals might him secure from foes. 


16 


Who thinks not oft upon the Fathers ages. 

Their long descent, how nephews sons they saw, 
The starry observations of those Sages, 

And how their precepts to their sons were law, 

How Adam sigh’d to see his Progeny, 

Cloath’d all in his black sinfull Livery, 

Who neither guilt, nor yet the punishment could fly. 


17 
Our Life compare we with their length of dayes 
Who to the tenth of theirs doth now arrive? 
And though thus short, we shorten many wayes, 
Living so little while we are alive; 
In eating, drinking, sleeping, vain delight 
So unawares comes on perpetual night, 
And puts all pleasures vain unto eternal flight. 


18 


When I behold the heavens as in their prime, 

And then the earth (though old) stil clad in green, 
The stones and trees, insensible of time, 

Nor age nor wrinkle on their front are seen; 

If winter come, and greeness then do fade, 

A Spring returns, and they more youthfull made; 


But Man grows old, lies down, remains where once he’s laid. 


20 [19] 
By birth more noble then those creatures all, 
Yet seems by nature and by custome curs’d, 
No sooner born, but grief and care makes fall 
That state obliterate he had at first: 
Nor youth, nor strength, nor wisdom spring again 
Nor habitations long their names retain, . 
But in oblivion to the final day remain, 


567 


The Puritans 


20 


Shall I then praise the heavens, the trees, the earth 
Because their beauty and their strength last longer 
Shall I wish there, or never to had birth, 

Because they’re bigger, & their bodyes stronger? 
Nay, they shall darken, perish, fade and dye, 

And when unmade, so ever shall they lye, 

But man was made for endless immortality. 


Pai 


Under the cooling shadow of a stately Elm 

Close sate I by a goodly Rivers side, 

Where gliding streams the Rocks did overwhelm; 

A lonely place, with pleasures dignifi’d. 

I once that lov’d the shady woods so well, 

Now thought the rivers did the trees excel, 

And if the sun would ever shine, there would I dwell. 


22, 


While on the stealing stream I fixt mine eye, 
Which to the long’d for Ocean held its course, 

I markt, nor crooks, nor rubs that there did lye 
Could hinder ought, but still augment its force: 

O happy Flood, quoth I, that holds thy race 

Till thou arrive at thy beloved place, 

Nor is it rocks or shoals that can obstruct thy pace 


23 
Nor is’t enough, that thou alone: may’st slide, 
But hundred brooks in thy cleer waves do meet, 
So hand in hand along with thee they glide 
To Thetis house,* where all imbrace and greet: . 
Thou Emblem true, of what I count the best, 
O could I lead my Rivolets to rest, 
So may we press to that vast mansion, ever blest. 


24. 
Ye Fish which in this liquid Region ’bide, 
That for each season, have your habitation, 
Now salt, now fresh where you think best to glide 
To unknown coasts to give a visitation, 
In Lakes and ponds, you leave your numerous fry, 
So nature taught, and yet you know not why, 
You watry folk that know not your felicity. 


Poetry 569 


25 
Look how the wantons frisk to tast the air, 
Then to the colder bottome streight they dive, 
Eftsoon to Neptun’s glassie Hall repair 
To see what trade they great ones there do drive, 
Who forrage o’re the spacious sea-green field, 
And take the trembling prey before it yield, 
Whose armour is their scales, their spreading fins their shield. 


26 


While musing thus with contemplation fed, 

And thousand fancies buzzing in my brain, 

The sweet-tongu’d Philomel > percht ore my head, 

And chanted forth a most melodious strain 

Which rapt me so with wonder and delight, 

I judg’d my hearing better then my sight, 

And wisht me wings with her a while to take my flight.. 


28 [27] 
O merry Bird (said I) that fears no snares, 
That neither toyles nor hoards up in thy barn, 
Feels no sad thoughts, nor cruciating cares 
To gain more good, or shun what might thee harm 
Thy cloaths ne’re wear, thy meat is every where, 
Thy bed a bough, thy drink the water cleer, 
Reminds not what is past, nor whats to come dost fear. 


28 


The dawning morn with songs thou dost prevent,® 
Sets hundred notes unto thy feathered crew, 

So each one tunes his pretty instrument, 

And warbling out the old, begin anew, 

And thus they pass their youth in summer season, 
Then follow thee into a better Region, 

Where winter’s never felt by that sweet airy legion. 


29 
Man at the best a creature frail and vain, 
In knowledg ignorant, in strength but weak, 
Subject to sorrows, losses, sickness, pain, 
Each storm his state, his mind, his body break, 
From some of these he never finds cessation, 
But day or night, within, without, vexation, 
Troubles from foes, from friends, from dearest, near’st Relation. 


570 4 "The" Purtans 


30 
And yet this sinfull creature, frail and vain, 
This lump of wretchedness, of sin and sorrow, 
This weather-beaten vessel wrackt with pain, 
Joyes not in hope of an eternal morrow; 
Nor all his losses, crosses and vexation, 
In weight, in frequency and long duration 
Can make him deeply groan for that divine Translation. 


31 
The Mariner that on smooth waves doth glide, 
Sings merrily, and steers his Barque with ease, 
As if he had command of wind and tide, 
And now become great Master of the seas; 
But suddenly a storm spoiles all the sport, 
And makes him long for a more quiet port, 
Which ’gainst all adverse winds may serve for fort. 


32 
So he that saileth in this world of pleasure, 
Feeding on sweets, that never bit of th’ sowre, 
That’s full of friends, of honour and of treasure, 
Fond fool, he takes this earth ev’n for heav’ns bower. 
But sad affliction comes & makes him see 
Here’s neither honour, wealth, nor safety; 
Only above is found all with security. 


33 
O Time the fatal wrack of mortal things, 
That draws oblivions curtains over kings, 
Their sumptuous monuments, men know them not, 
Their names without a Record are forgot, 
Their parts, their ports, their pomp’s all laid in th’ dust 
Nor wit nor gold, nor buildings scape times rust; 
But he whose name is grav’d in the white stone 7 
Shall last and shine when all of these are gone. 


THe FLESH AND THE SPIRIT.® 


N secret place where once I stood 
I Close by the Banks of Lacrim flood 
I heard two sisters reason on 
Things that are past, and things to come; 
One flesh was call’d, who had her eye 
On worldly wealth and vanity; 


Poetry 


The other Spirit, who did rear 

Her thoughts unto a higher sphere: 
Sister, quoth Flesh, -what liv’st thou on 
Nothing but Meditation? 

Doth Contemplation feed thee so 
Regardlesly to let earth goe? 

Can Speculation satisfy 

Notion without Reality? 

Dost dream of things beyond the Moon 
And dost thou hope to dwell there soon? 
Hast treasures there laid up in store 
That all in th’ world thou count’st but poor? 
Art fancy sick, or turn’d a Sot 

To catch at shadowes which are not? 
Come, come, Ile shew unto thy sence, 
Industry hath its recompence. 

What canst desire, but thou maist see 
True substance in variety? 

Dost honour like? acquire the same, 

As some to their immortal fame: 

And trophyes to thy name erect 

Which wearing time shall ne’re deject. 
For riches dost thou long full sore? 
Behold enough of precious store. 

Earth hath more silver, pearls and gold, 
Then eyes can see, or hands can hold. 
Affect’s thou pleasure? take thy fill, 
Earth hath enough of what you will. 
Then let not goe, what thou maist find, 
For things unknown, only in mind. 


Spir. Be still thou unregenerate part, 


Disturb no more my setled heart, 

For I have vow’d, (and so will doe) 
Thee as a foe, still to pursue. 

And combate with thee will and must, 
Untill I see thee laid in th’ dust. 

Sisters we are, ye[a] twins we be, 

Yet deadly feud ’twixt thee and me; 
For from one father are we not, 

Thou by old Adam wast begot, 

But my arise is from above, 

Whence my dear father I do love. 
Thou speakst me fair, but hatst me sore, 
Thy flatt’ring shews Ile trust no more. 
How oft thy slave, hast thou me made, - 


Dae 


oe: The Puritans 


when I believ’d, what thou hast said, 
And never had more cause of woe 
Then when I did what thou bad’st doe. 
Ile stop mine ears at these thy charms, 
And count them for my deadly harms. 
Thy sinfull pleasures I doe hate, 
Thy riches are to me no bait, 
Thine honours doe, nor will I love; 
For my ambition lyes above. 
My greatest honour it shall be 
When I am victor over thee, 
And triumph shall, with laurel head, 
When thou my Captive shalt be led, 
How I do live, thou need’st not scoff, 
For I have meat thou know’st not off; 
The hidden Manna I doe eat, 
The word of life it is my meat. 
My thoughts do yield me more content 
Then can thy hours in pleasure spent. 

- Nor are they shadows which I catch, 
Nor fancies vain at which I snatch, 
But reach at things that are so high, 
Beyond thy dull Capacity; 
Eternal substance I do see, 
With which inriched I would be: 
Mine Eye doth pierce the heavens, and see 
What is Invisible to thee. 
My garments are not silk nor gold, 
Nor such like trash which Earth doth hold, 
But Royal Robes I shall have on, 
More glorious then the glistring Sun; 
My Crown not Diamonds, Pearls, and gold, © 
But such as Angels heads infold. 
The City where I hope to dwell, 
There’s none on Earth can parallel; 
The stately Walls both high and strong, 
Are made of pretious Fasper stone; 
The Gates of Pearl, both rich and clear, 
And Angels are for Porters there; 
The Streets thereof transparent gold, 
Such as no Eye did e’re behold, 
A Chrystal River there doth run, 
Which doth proceed from the Lambs Throne: 
Of Life, there are the waters sure, 
Which shall remain for ever pure, 


Poetry 


Nor Sun, nor Moon, they have no need, 
For glory doth from God proceed: 

No Candle there, nor yet Torch light, 
For there shall be no darksome night. 
From sickness and infirmity, 

For evermore they shall be free, 

Nor withering age shall e’re come there, 
But beauty shall be bright and clear; 
This City pure is not for thee, 

For things unclean there shall not be: 
If I of Heaven may have my fill, 

Take thou the world, and all that will. 


To my DEAR AND LOVING HUSBAND. 


F EVER two were one, then surely we. 
] If ever man were lov’d by wife, then thee; 
If ever wife was happy in a man, 
Compare with me ye women if you can. 
I prize thy love more then whole Mines of gold, 
Or all the riches that the East doth hold. 
My love is such that Rivers cannot quench, 
Nor ought but love from thee, give recompence. 
Thy love is such I can no way repay, 
The heavens reward thee manifold I pray. 
Then while we live, in love lets so persever, 
That when we live no more, we may live ever. 


A LETTER TO HER HUSBAND, ABSENT UPON PUBLICK 
EMPLOYMENT. 


Y HEAD, my heart, mine Eyes, my life, nay more, 
My joy, my Magazine of earthly store, 
If two be one, as surely thou and I, 
How stayest thou there, whilst I at Ipswich lye? 
So many steps, head from the heart to sever 
If but a neck, soon should we be together: 
I like the earth this season, mourn in black, 
My Sun is gone so far in’s Zodiack, 
Whom whilst I ’joy’d, nor storms, nor frosts I felt, 
His warmth such frigid colds did cause to melt. 
My chilled limbs now nummed lye forlorn; 
Return, return sweet Sol from Capricorn; 1° 
In this dead time, alas, what can I more 
Then view those fruits which through thy heat I bore? 


573 


574 . The Puritans 


Which sweet contentment yield me for a space, 
True living Pictures of their Fathers face. 

O strange effect! now thou art Southward gone, 
I weary grow, the tedious day so long; 

But when thou Worthward to me shalt return, 

I wish my Sun may never set, but burn 
Within the Cancer “ of my glowing breast, 
The welcome house of him my dearest guest. 
Where ever, ever stay, and go not thence, 

Till natures sad decree shall call thee hence; 
Flesh of thy flesh, bone of thy bone, 

I here, thou there, yet both but one. 


MEDITATIONS WHEN MY SOUL HATH BEEN REFRESHED WITH THE 
CONSOLATIONS WHICH THE WORLD KNOWES NOT 
ie 

ORD, why should I doubt any more when thov hast given me such 
Le assured Pledges of thy Loue? First, thov art my Creator, I thy 
creature; thov my master, I thy servant. But hence arises not my com- 
fort: Thov art my Father, I thy child. Yee shall [be] my Sons and 
Daughters, saith the Lord Almighty. Christ is my Brother; I ascend 
vnto my Father and your Father, vnto my God and your God. But least 
this should not bee enough, thy maker is thy husband. Nay, more, I 
am a member of his Body; he, my head. Such Priviledges, had not the 
Word of Truth made them known, who or where is the man that durst 
in his heart haue presumed to haue thought it? So wonderfull are these 
thoughts that my spirit failes in me at the consideration thereof; and 
I am confovnded to think that God, who hath done so much for me, 
should haue so little from me. But this is my comfort, when I come into 
Heaven, I shall vnderstand perfectly what he hath done for me, and 
then shall I bee able to praise him as I ovght. Lord, haueing this hope, 
let me purefie myself as thou art Pure, and let me bee no more affraid 
of Death, but even desire to bee dissolved, and bee with thee, which is 
best oP All. 0): . 

IX. 

Sweet words are like hony, a little may refresh, but too much gluts 
the stomach. 

X. 

Diuerse children haue their different natures; some are like flesh 
which nothing but salt will keep from putrefaction; some again like 
tender fruits that are best preserued with sugar: those parents are 
wise that can fit their nurture according to their Nature. 


Poetry | 575 
XI. 


That town which thousands of enemys without hath not been able 
to take, hath been deliuered vp by one traytor within; and that man, 
which all the temptations of Sathan without could not hurt, hath 
been foild by one lust within. 


XII. 


Authority without wisedome is like a heavy axe without an edg, 
fitter to bruise then polish. 


XIII. 


The reason why christians are so loth to exchang this world for a 
better, is because they haue more sence then faith: they se what they 
injoy, they do but hope for that which is to Come. 


XIV. 


If we had no winter the spring would not be so pleasant: if we did 
not sometimes tast of adversity, prosperity would not be so welcome. 


XV. 


A low man can goe vpright vnder that door, wher a taller is glad 
to stoop; so a man of weak faith and mean abilities, may vndergo 
a crosse more patiently then he that excells him, both “in gifts and 
graces. 


XVI. 


That house which is not often swept, makes the cleanly inhabitant 
soone loath it, and that heart which is not continually purifieing it 
self, is no fit temple for the spirit of god to dwell in. 


XVII. 


Few men are so humble as not to be proud of their abilitys; and 
nothing will abase them more then this,—What hast thou, but what 
thou hast receiued? come giue an account of thy stewardship... . 


XXVIII. 


It is a pleasant thing to behold the light, but sore eyes are not able 
to look vpon it; the pure in heart shall se God, but the defiled in 
conscience shall rather choose to be buried vnder rocks and mountains 
then to behold the presence of the Lamb. 


XXVIII. 


Wisedome with an inheritance is good, but wisedome without an 
inheritance is better then an inheritance without wisedome. 


576 The Puritans 


XXIX. 


Lightening doth vsually preceed thunder, and stormes, raine; and 
stroaks do not often fall till after threat’ning. 


XXX. 


Yellow leaues argue want of sap, and gray haires want of moisture; 
so dry and saplesse performances are simptoms of little spiritall vigor. 


XXXII. 


Iron till it be throughly heat is vncapable to be wrought; so God 
sees good to cast some men into the furnace of affliction, and then 
beats them on his anuile into what frame he pleases. 


XXXII. 


Ambitious men are like hops that neuer rest climbing soe long as 
they haue any thing to stay vpon; but take away their props and 
they are, of all, the most dejected. 


XXXIII. 


Much Labour wearys the body, and many thoughts oppresse the 
minde: man aimes at profit by the one, and content in the other; 
but often misses of both, and findes nothing but vanity and vexation 
of spirit. 

XXXIV. 


Dimne eyes are the concomitants of old age; and short sightednes, 
in those that are eyes of a Republique, foretels a declineing State. 


XXXV. 


We read in Scripture of three sorts of Arrows,—the arrow of an 
enemy, the arrow of pestilence, and the arrow of a slanderous tongue; 
the two first kill the body, the last the good name; the two former 
leaue a man when he is once dead, but the last mangles him in his 
Braue: |: “a 

LXUI. 


' He that would keep a pure heart, and lead a blamlesse life, must 


set himself alway in the awefull presence of God, the consideration 
of his all-seeing eye will be a bridle to restrain from evill, and a spur 
to quicken on to good dutys: we certainly dream of some remotnes 
betwixt God and vs, or else we should not so often faile in our whole 
Course of life as we doe; but he, that with David, sets the Lord alway 
in his sight, will not sinne against him. 


Poetry nig 


LXIV. 


We see in orchards some trees soe fruitfull, that the waight of their 
Burden is the breaking of their limbes; some again are but meanly 
loaden; and some haue nothing to shew but leaues only; and some 
among them are dry stocks: so is it in the church, which is Gods 
orchard, there are some eminent Christians that are soe frequent in 
good dutys, that many times the waight therof impares both their 
bodys and estates; and there are some (and they sincere ones too) 
who haue not attained to that fruitfullnes, altho they aime at per- 
fection: And again there are others that haue nothing to commend 
them but only a gay proffession, and these are but leavie christians, 
which are in as much danger of being cut down as the dry stock, for 
both cumber the ground. 


LXV. 


We see in the firmament there is but one Sun among a multitude 
of starres, and those starres also to differ much one from the other 
in regard of bignes and brightnes, yet all receiue their light from that 
one Sun: so is it in the church both militant and triumphant, there 
is but one Christ, who is the Sun of righteousnes, in the midest of an 
innumerable company of Saints and Angels; those Saintes haue their 
degrees euen in this life, some are Stars of the first magnitude, and 
some of a lesse degree; and others (and they indeed the most in num- 
ber), but small and obscure, yet all receiue their luster (be it more or 
lesse) from that glorious sun that inlightens all in all; and, if some 
of them shine so bright while they moue on earth, how transcendently 
splendid shall they be, when they are fixt in their heauenly spheres! 


HERE FOLLOWES SOME VERSES VPON THE BURNING OF OUR Hous, 
JULY 10TH, 1666. CopyED OVT OF A LOOSE PAPER. 


In silent night when rest I took, 

For sorrow neer I did not look, 

I waken’d was with thundring nois 
And Piteovs shreiks of dreadfull voice. 
That fearfull sound of fire and fire, 
Let no man know is my Desire. 


I, starting vp, the light did spye, 
: And to my God my heart did cry 
To strengthen me in my Distresse 
And not to leaue me succourlesse. 
Then coming ovt beheld a space, 
The flame consvme my dwelling place. 


578 


The Puritans 


And, when I could no longer look, 

I blest his Name that gave and took, 
That layd my goods now in the dvst: 
Yea so it was, and so *twas jvst. 

It was his own: it was not mine; 

Far be it that I should repine. 


He might of All justly bereft, 

But yet sufficient for us left. 

When by the Ruines oft I past, 

My sorrowing eyes aside did cast, 
And here and there the places spye 
Where oft I sate, and long did lye. 


Here stood that Trunk, and there that chest; 
There lay that store I covnted best: 

My pleasant things in ashes lye, 

And them behold no more shall I. 

Vnder thy roof no gvest shall sitt, 

Nor at thy Table eat a bitt. 


No pleasant tale shall ’ere be told, 

Nor things recovnted done of old. 

No Candle ’ere shall shine in Thee, 

Nor bridegroom’s voice ere heard shall bee. 
In silence ever shalt thou lye; 

Adeiu, Adeiu; All’s vanity. 


Then streight I gin my heart to chide, 
And did thy wealth on earth abide? 
Didst fix thy hope on mouldring dvst, 
The arm of flesh didst make thy trvst? 
Raise vp thy thovghts above the skye 
That dunghill mists away may flie. 


Thou hast an house on high erect, 
Fram’d by that mighty Architect, 

With glory richly furnished, 

Stands permanent though: this bee fled. 
It’s purchaséd, and paid for too 

By him who hath enovgh to doe. 


A Prise so vast as is vnknown, 

Yet; by his Gift, is made thine own. 
Ther’s wealth enovgh, I need no more; 
Farewell my Pelf, farewell my Store. 


Poetry 


The world no longer let me Love, 
My hope and Treasure lyes Above. 


[LonciInG FOR HEAVEN] 


S WEARY pilgrim, now at rest, 

A Hugs with delight his silent nest 
His wasted limbes, now lye full soft 

That myrie steps, haue troden oft 
Blesses himself, to think vpon 

his dangers past, and travailes done 
The burning sun no more shall heat 

Nor stormy raines, on him shall beat. 
The bryars and thornes no more shall scratch 

nor hungry wolues at him shall catch 
He erring pathes no more shall tread 

nor wild fruits eate, in stead of bread, 
for waters cold he doth not long 

for thirst no more shall parch his tongue 
No rugged stones his feet shall gaule 

nor stumps nor rocks cause him to fall 
All cares and feares, he bids farwell 

and meanes in safity now to dwell. 
A pilgrim I, on earth, perplext 

w*» sinns w*® cares and sorrows vext 
By age and paines brought to decay 

and my Clay house mouldring away 
Oh how I long to be at rest 

and soare on high among the blest. 
This body shall in silence sleep 

Mine eyes no more shall ever weep 
No fainting fits shall me assaile 

nor grinding paines my body fraile 
W*» cares and fears ne’r cumbred be 

Nor losses know, nor sorrowes see 
What tho my flesh shall there consume 

it is the bed Christ did perfume 
And when a few yeares shall be gone 

this mortall shall be cloth’d vpon 
A Corrupt Carcasse downe it lyes 

a glorious body it shall rise 
In weaknes and dishonour sowne 

in power ’tis rais’d by Christ alone 
Then soule and body shall vnite 

and of their maker haue the sight 


579 


580 The Puritans 


NATHANIEL WARD, JOHN ROGERS, anp 
JOHN NORTON 


[1t was customary for publishers to invite poets and scholars to write 
commendatory verses by way of introducing an author to the public. 
The aged and distinguished “simple cobler,” Nathaniel Ward, who 
returned to England in 1646, had been a neighbor of Mrs. Bradstreet, 
and contributed his sprightly lines to the first edition of The Tenth Muse. ' 
Since Ward had previously expressed contempt for women’s talents, 
his praise may have attracted particular notice. For an account of 
Ward, see ante p. 225. The text is from the first edition. 

In the Boston edition of Mrs. Bradstreet’s Several Poems (1678), 
new commendatory offerings were included, among which the verses 
““Vpon Mrs. Anne Bradstreet Her Poems, etc.”” by John Rogers (1631- 
1684) of Ipswich, and “A Funeral Elogy”’ by the Rev. John Norton 
(1651-1716) of Hingham deserve to be remembered. Rogers’s wife 
was a niece of Mrs. Bradstreet. He was son of the Rev. Nathaniel 
Rogers of Ipswich, and though he studied divinity, he was never 
ordained. Offered the presidency of Harvard in 1677, he declined it 
to devote himself to medicine, but he later reconsidered, and served 
in that office the two years before his death. See Tyler, A History of Ameri- 
can Literature, I1, 12-15; Sibley, Biographical Sketches, I, 166-171; and 
Samuel E. Morison, Harvard College in the Seventeenth Century, 430-445. 

John Norton, ancestor of Charles Eliot Norton, was nephew of the 
famous Rev. John Norton of Boston and grand-nephew of Governor 
Winthrop. He published, besides the poem below, but one sermon, yet _ 
this ““Elogy”’ will keep his memory alive, for as Tyler remarks (ibid., p. 
10), “here is something more than mechanic poetry, something other 
than inspiration of the thumb-nail.”’ It has been suggested that Norton 
may have edited Several Poems (New England Historical and Genealogical 
Register, IX, 113 note). See also Sibley, op. cit., II, 394-396; Tyler, op. 
cit., II, 9-11. The text of both the Rogers and Norton selections is from 
Several Poems, 1678.] 


ON MRS. BRADSTREET’S TENTH MUSE 


EROURY shew’d Apollo, Bartas Book,! 
Minerva this, and wisht him well to look, 
And tell uprightly, which, did which excell; 
He view’d, and view’d, and vow’d he could not tell. 
They bid him Hemisphear his mouldy nose, 
With’s crackt leering-glasses, for it would pose 


Poetry 


The best brains he had in’s old pudding-pan, 

Sex weigh’d, which best, the Woman, or the Man? 
He peer’d, and por’d, and glar’d, and said for wore,? 
I’me even as wise now, as I was before: 

They both ’gan laugh, and said, it was no mar’! 3 
The Auth’resse was a right Du Bartas Girle. 

Good sooth quoth the old Don, tel ye me so, 

I muse whither at length these Girls wil go; 

It half revives my chil frost-bitten blood, 

To see a woman, once, do ought that’s good; 

And chode buy * Chaucers Boots, and Homers Furrs, 
Let men look to’t, least women weare the Spurs. 


N. Ward. 


VPON 
MRS. ANNE BRADSTREET 


Her Poems, &c. 


ADAM, twice through the Muses Grove I walkt, 
Under your blissfull bowres, I shrowding °* there, 
It seem’d with Nymphs of Helicon I talkt: 
For there those sweet-lip’d Sisters sporting were, 
Apollo with his sacred Lute sate by, 
On high they made their heavenly Sonnets flye, 
Posies around they strow’d, of sweetest Poesie. 


24 


Twice have I drunk the Nectar of your lines, 

Which high sublim’d my mean born phantasie, 

Flusht with these streams of your Maronean wines © 
Above my self rapt to an extasie: 

Methought I was upon Mount Aiblas top,’ 

There where I might those fragrant flowers lop, 
Whence did sweet odors flow, and honey spangles drop. 


3 


To Venus shrine no Altars raised are, 

Nor venom’d shafts from painted quiver fly, 

Nor wanton Doves of Aphrodites Carr, 

Or fluttering there, nor here forlornly lie, 

Lorne Paramours, not chatting birds tell news 
How sage Apollo, Daphne hot pursues, 

Or stately Jove himself is wont to haunt the stews. 


581 


582 


The Puritans 


4 
Nor barking Satyrs breath, nor driery § clouds 
Exhal’d from Styx, their dismal drops distil 
Within these Fairy, flowry fields, nor shrouds 
The screeching night Raven, with his shady quill: 
But Lyrick strings here Orpheus nimbly hitts, 
Orion, on his sadled Dolphin sits, 
Chanting as every humour, age & season fits. 


5 


Here silver swans, with Nightingales set spells, 
Which sweetly charm the Traveller, and raise 
Earths earthed Monarchs, from their hidden Cells, 
And to appearance summons lapsed dayes, 

There heav’nly air, becalms the swelling re is 
And fury fell of Elements allayes, 

By paying every one due tribute of his praise. 


6 


This seem’d the Scite 1° of all those verdant vales, 
And purled springs, whereat the Nymphs do play, 
With lofty hills, where Poets rear their tales, 

To heavenly vaults, which heav’nly sound repay 
By ecchoes sweet rebound, here Ladyes kiss, 
Circling nor songs, nor dances circle miss; 

But whilst those Syrens sung, I sunk in sea of bliss. 


7 
Thus weltring in delight, my virgin mind 
Admits a rape; truth still lyes undiscrid, 
Its singular, that plural seem’d, I find, 
*Twas Fancies glass alone that multipli’d; 
Nature with Art so closely did combine, 
I thought I saw the Muses trebble trine, 


. Which prov’d your lonely Muse, superiour to the nine. 


8 


Your only hand those Poesies did compose, 

Your head the source, whence all those springs did flow, 
Your voice, whence changes sweetest notes arose, 

Your feet that kept the dance alone, I trow: 

Then vail your bonnets, Poetasters all, 


_ Strike, lower amain, and at these humbly fall, 


And deem your selves advanc’d to be her Pedestal. 


Poetry 


583 


9 
Should all with lowly Congies '! Laurels bring, 
Waste Floraes Magazine to find a wreathe; 
Or Pineus 12 Banks *twere too mean offering, 
Your Muse a fairer Garland doth bequeath 
To guard your fairer front; here ’tis your name 
Shall stand immarbled; this your little frame 
Shall great Colossus be, to your eternal fame. 


T’le please my self, though I my self disgrace, 
What errors here be found, are in Errataes place. 


J. Rogers. 


A FUNERAL ELOGY, 


Upon that Pattern and Patron of Virtue, the truely pious, 
peerless G matchless Gentlewoman 


Mrs. Anne Bradstreet, 
right Panaretes,'s 


Mirror of Her Age, Glory of her Sex, whose Heaven-born-Soul 


leaving its earthly Shrine, chose its native home, and was 


taken to its Rest, upon 16th. Sept. 1672. 


SK NOT why hearts turn Magazines of passions, 
And why that grief is clad in sev’ral fashions; 
Why She on progress goes, and doth not borrow 
The smallest respite from th’ extreams of sorrow, 
Her misery is got to such an height, 
As makes the earth groan to support its weight, 
Such storms of woe, so strongly have beset her, 


. She hath no, place for worse, nor hope for better; 


Her comfort is, if any for her be, 
That none can shew more cause of grief then she. 
Ask not why some in mournfull black are clad; 


_ The Sun is set, there needs must be a shade. 


Ask not why every face a sadness shrowdes; 
The setting Sun ore-cast us hath with Clouds. 
Ask not why the great glory of the Skye 

That gilds the starrs with heavenly Alchamy, 
Which all the world doth lighten with his rayes, 
The Perslan 4+ God, the Monarch of the dayes; 
Ask not the reason of his extasie, 

Paleness of late, in midnoon Majesty, 


554 


The Puritans 


Why that the palefac’d Empress of the night 
Disrob’d her brother of his glorious light. 

Did not the language of the starrs foretel 

A mournfull Scoene when they with tears did swell? 
Did not the glorious people of the Skye 

Seem. sensible of future misery? 

Did not the lowring heavens seem to express 
The worlds great lose, and their unhappiness? 
Behold how tears flow from the learned hill, 
How the bereaved Nine do daily fill 

The bosome of the fleeting Air with groans, 

And wofull Accents, which witness their moanes. 
How doe the Goddesses of verse, the learned quire 
Lament their rival Quill, which all admire? 
Could Maro’s * Muse but hear her lively strain, 
He would condemn his works to fire again. 
Methinks I hear the Patron of the Spring, 

The unshorn Deity abruptly sing. 

Some doe for anguish weep, for anger I 

That Ignorance should live, and Art should die. 
Black, fatal, dismal, inauspicious day, 

Unblest for ever by Sol’s precious Ray, 

Be it the first of Miseries to all; 

Or last of Life, defam’d for Funeral. 

When this day yearly comes, let every one, 

Cast in their urne, the black and dismal stone. 
Succeeding years as they their circuit goe, 

Leap o’re this day, as a sad time of woe. 
Farewell my Muse, since thou hast left thy shrine, 
I am unblest in one, but blest in nine. 

Fair Thespian Ladyes, light your torches all, 
Attend your glory to its Funeral, 

To court her ashes with a learned tear, 

A briny sacrifice, let not a smile appear. 

Grave Matron, whoso seeks to blazon thee, 
Needs not make use of witts false Heraldry; 
Whoso should give thee all thy worth would swell 
So high, as ’twould turn the world infidel. 

Had he great Maro’s Muse, or Tully’s }© tongue, 
Or raping numbers like the Thracian Song, 

In crowning of her merits he would be 
Sumptuously poor, low in Hyperbole. 

To write is easie; but to write on thee, 

Truth would be thought to forfeit modesty. 

He’! seem a Poet that shall speak but true; 


Poetry 585 


Hyperbole’s in others, are thy due. 

Like a most servile flatterer he will show 

Though he write truth, and make the subject, You.?” 
Virtue ne’re dies, time will a Poet raise 

Born under better Starrs, shall sing thy praise. 
Praise her who list, yet he shall be a debtor 

For Art ne’re feign’d, nor Nature fram’d a better. 
Her virtues were so great, that they do raise 

A work to trouble fame, astonish praise. 

When as her Name doth but salute the ear, 

Men think that they perfections abstract hear. 
Her breast was a brave Pallace, a Broad-street, 
Where all heroick ample thoughts did meet, 
Where nature such a Tenement had tane, 

That others souls, to hers, dwelt in a lane. 
Beneath her feet, pale envy bites her chain, 

And poison Malice, whetts her sting in vain. 

Let every Laurel, every Myrtel bough 

Be stript for leaves t? adorn and load her brow. 
Victorious wreathes, which ’cause they never fade 
Wise elder times for Kings and Poets made. 

Let not her happy memory e’re lack 

Its worth in Fames eternal Almanack, 

Which none shall read, but straight their loss deplore, 
And blame their Fates they were not born before. 
Do not old men rejoyce their Fates did last, 

And infants too, that theirs did make such hast, 
In such a welcome time to bring them forth, 
That they might be a witness to her worth. 

Who undertakes this subject to commend 

Shall nothing find so hard as how to end. 


Finis & non. John Norton. 


Omnia Romane sileant Miracula Gentis.18 


MICHAEL WIGGLESWORTH, 1631-1705 


[The eighteen hundred copies of The Day of Doom: or A Poetical 
Description of the Great and Last Judgement (Cambridge, 1662), were 
exhausted within a year, and no copy of the first edition is known to 
survive. It was immediately re-issued here and in England. It was 
published in broadside and hawked about the country. In the next 
two centuries it appeared frequently, and was last printed as recently 


596 | Me The Puritans 


as 1929. In the same year that it was first published Michael Wiggles- 
worth wrote “Gods Controversy with New-England. Written in the 
time of the great drought,” wherein the backslidings of the time are 
indicated as the reason that New England has become “A waste and 
howling wilderness.’’ The poem has been published in Proceedings of the 
Massachusetts Historical Society, X11 (1873), 83-93, from which the present 
selection has been taken. Wigglesworth’s last verses appeared in Meat 
out of the Eater or Meditations Concerning The Necessity, End, and Usefulness 
of Affliction unto Gods Children. The only known copy of the first edition 
of 1670 is in the Yale University Library. 

See Matt B. Jones, ‘“‘Notes for a Bibliography of Michael Wiggles- 
worth’s Day of Doom and Meat out of the Eater,’ Proceedings of the American 
Antiquarian Society, Nis. XXXIX (1929), 77-84; and idem, “Michael 
Wigglesworth’s Meat Out of the Eater: The hitherto unknown First 
Edition,” Yale University Gazette, V (1931), 45-47. See also Francis O. 
Matthiessen, “Michael Wigglesworth, A Puritan Artist,” New England 
Quarterly, I (1928), 491-504; Kenneth B. Murdock, ed., The Day of 
Doom, with introduction (New York, 1929); John W. Dean, Memoir of 
Rev. Michael Wigglesworth, second ed., Albany, 1871; ‘“‘Letters of Michael 
Wigglesworth to Increase Mather,” Collections of the Massachusetts His- 
torical Society, fourth series, VIII, 645-647; Moses C. Tyler, A History 
of American Literature, 11, 23-35; John L. Sibley, Bzographical Sketches, I, 
259-286; and especially Samuel E. Morison, Harvard College in the 
Seventeenth Century, passim. Several unpublished Wigglesworth MSS are 
in possession of the New England Historical Genealogical Society and 
of the Massachusetts Historical Society. The text of Meat out of the Eater 
here reproduced is from the fourth edition of 1689; that of The Day of 
Doom is from the fifth edition (1701), the last to appear in the author’s 
lifetime. ] 


A PRAYER UNTO CHRIST THE JUDGE 
OF THE WORLD. 


DEAREST Dread, most glorious King, 
Tle of thy justest Judgments sing: 
Do thou my head and heart inspire, 
To Sing aright, as I desire. 
Thee, thee alone I’le invocate, 
For I do much abominate 
To call the Muses to mine aid: 
Which is th’ Unchristian use, and trade 
Of some that Christians would be thought, 


Poetry 


And yet they worship worse then nought. 
Oh! what a deal of Blasphemy, 

And Heathenish Impiety, 

In Christian Poets may be found, 


587 


Where Heathen gods with praise are Crown’d, 


They make Jehovah to stand by, 

Till Juno, Venus, Mercury, 

With frowning Mars, and thundering ove, 
Rule Earth below, and Heaven above. 
But I have learnt to pray to none, 
Save unto God in Christ alone. 

Nor will I laud, no not in jest, 
That which I know God doth detest. 

I reckon it a damning evil 

To give Gods Praises to the Devil. 
Thou, Christ, art he to whom I pray, 
Thy Glory fain I would display. 

Oh! guide me by thy sacred Sprite 

So to indite, and so to write, 

That I thine holy Name may praise, 
And teach the Sons of men thy wayes. 


[Prefatory lines to The Day of Doom] 


THE DAY OF DOOM. 


(1) 
TILL was the night, Serene and Bright, when all Men 
S sleeping lay; 
Calm was the season, and carnal reason thought so ’’twould 
last for ay. 
Soul, take thine ease, let sorrow cease, much good thou 
hast in store: 
This was their Song, their Cups among, the Evening 
before. 
(2) 
Wallowing in all kind of sin, vile wretches lay secure:! 
The best of men had scarcely then their Lamps kept in 
good ure. 
Virgins unwise, who through disguise amongst the best 
* were number’d, 
Had clos’d their eyes; yea, and the wise through sloth 
and frailty slumber’d. 


The Security 
of the World 
before Christs 
coming to 
Judgment. 
Luk. 12: 19. 


Mat. 25: 5. 


588 


Mat. 24: 
37, 38. 


1 Thes. 5: 3. 


The Sud- 
denness, 
Majesty, 

& Terror 
of Christ’s 
appearing. 
Mat. 25: 6. 
gFet. 9: 10; 


Mat. 24: 
29, 30. 


2 Pet. 3: 10. 


The Puritans 


(3) 


Like as of old,? when Men grow bold Gods’ threatnings 
to contemn, 

Who stopt their Ear, and would not hear, when Mercy 
warned them: 

But took their course, without remorse, till God began 
to powre 

Destruction the World upon in a tempestuous showre. 


(4) 


They put away the evil day, And drown’d their care 
and fears, 

Till drown’d were they, and swept away by vengeance 
unawares: 

So at the last, whilst Men sleep fast in their security, 

Surpriz’d they are in such a snare as cometh suddenly. 


(5) 
For at midnight brake forth a Light, which turn’d the 
night to day, 
And speedily an hideous cry did all the world dismay. 
Sinners awake, their hearts do ake, trembling their loynes 
surprizeth; 
Amaz’d with fear, by what they hear, each one of them 
ariseth. 
(6) 
They rush * from Beds with giddy heads, and to their 
windows run, 
Viewing this light, which shines more bright then doth 
the Noon-day Sun. 
Straightway appears (they see’t with tears) the Son of 
God most dread; 
Who with his Train comes on amain to Judge both 
Quick and Dead. 
(7) 
Before his face the Heav’ns gave place, and Skies are 
rent asunder, 
With mighty voice, and hideous noise, more terrible than 
Thunder. 
His brightness damps heav’ns glorious lamps and makes 
them hide their heads, 
As if afraid and quite dismay’d, they quit their wonted 
steads. 


Poetry 
(8) 


Ye sons of men that durst contemn the Threatnings of 
Gods Word. 

How cheer you now? your hearts, I trow, are thrill’d 
as with a sword. 

Now Atheist blind, whose brutish mind a God could 
never see, 

Dost thou perceive, dost now believe that Christ thy 
Judge shall be? 

(9) 


Stout Courages, (whose hardiness could Death and Hell 
out-face) 

Are you as bold now you behold your Judge draw near 
apace? 

They cry, no, no: Alas! and wo! our Courage all is gone: 

Our hardiness (fool hardiness) hath us undone, undone. 


(10) 
No heart so bold, but now grows cold and almost dead 
with fear: 
No eye so dry, but now can cry, and pour out many a 
tear. 
Earths Potentates and pow’rful States, Captains and Men 
of Might 
Are quite abasht, their courage dasht at this most dread- 
ful sight. 
(11) 


Mean men lament, great men do rent their Robes, and 
tear their hair: 

They do not spare their flesh to tear through horrible 
despair. 

All Kindreds wail: all hearts do fail: horror the world 
doth fill | 

With weeping eyes, and loud out-cries, yet knows not 
how to kill. 

(12) 


Some hide themselves in Caves and Delves, in places 
under ground: 

Some rashly leap into the Deap, to scape by being 
drown’d: 

Some to the Rocks (O sensless blocks!) and woody 
Mountains run, 

That there they might this fearful sight, and dreaded 
Presence shun. 


589 


Rev. 6: 16. 


Mat. 24: 30. 


Rev. 6:15, 16. 


oe 


Mat. 25: 31. 


Rev. 6: 14. 


1 Thes. 4.: 16. 

Resurrection of 

the Dead. 

John 5: 28, 29. 


The Puritans 
(13) 


In vain do they to Mountains say, Fall on us, and us 
hide 

From Judges ire, more hot than fire, for who may it 
abide? 

No hiding place can from his Face sinners at all conceal, 

Whose flaming Eyes hid things doth ’spy, and darkest 
things reveal. 


(14) 
The Judge draws nigh, exalted high upon a lofty 
Throne, 
Amidst the throng of Angels strong, lo, Israel’s Holy 
One! 
The excellence of whose presence and awful Majesty, 
Amazeth Nature, and every Creature, doth more than 
terrify. 


(15) 

The Mountains smoak, the Hills are shook, the Earth is 

_ rent and torn, 

As if she should be clean dissolv’d, or from the Center 
born. 

The Sea doth roar, forsakes the shore, and shrinks away 
for fear; 

The wild Beasts flee into the Sea, so soon as he draws 
near. 


(16) 

Whose Glory bright, whose wondrous might, whose Power 
Imperial, 

So far surpass whatever was in Realms Terrestrial; 

That tongues of men (nor Angels pen) cannot the same 
express, 

And therefore I must pass it by, lest speaking should 
transgress. 


(17) 
Before his Throne a Trump is blown, Proclaiming th’ 
Day of Doom: 
Forthwith he cries, Ye Dead arise, and unto Fudement come. 
No sooner said, but ’tis obey’d; Sepulchers open’d are: 
Dead Bodies all rise at his call, and’s mighty bane de- 
clare. 


Poetry 
(18) 


Both Sea and Land, at his Command, their Dead at 
once surrender: 

The Fire and Air constrained are also their dead to 
tender. 

The mighty word of this great Lord links Body and Soul 
together 

Both of the Just, and the unjust, to part no more for 
ever. 


(19) 
The same translates, from Mortal states to Immortality, 
All that survive, and be alive, 1’ th’ twinkling of an 
eye: 
That so they may abide for ay to endless weal or woe; 
Both the Renate °and Reprobate are made to dy no more. 


(20) 

His winged Hosts flie through all Coasts, together gather- 
in 

Both good and -bad, both quick and dead, and all to 
Judgment bring. 

Out of their holes those creeping Moles, that hid them- 
selves for fear, | 

By force they take, and quickly make before the Judge 
appear. 


(21) 
Thus every one before the Throne of Christ the Judge 
is brought, 
Both righteous and impious that good or ill had wrought. 
A separation, and diff’ring station by Christ appointed 
is 


(To sinners sad) ’twixt good and bad, ’twixt Heirs of 


woe and bliss. 


(22) 

At Christ’s right hand the Sheep do stand, his holy 
Martyrs, who 

For his dear Name suffering shame, calamity and woe. 

Like Champions stood, and with their Blood their testi- 
mony sealed; 

Whose innocence without offence, to Christ their Judge 
appealed. 


aol 


The living 
Changed. 


Luk. 20: 36. 
1 Cor. 15: 52. 


All brought 
to Judgment. 
Mat. 24: 31. 


2 Cor. 5:10. 
The Sheep 
separated from 
the Goats. 
Mat. 25: 32. 


Who are 
Christ’s 

Sheep. 

Mat. 5:10, 11. 


592 


The Puritans 


(23) 


Heb. 12:5,6,7. Next unto whom there find a room all Christ’s afflicted 


Luke 7: 41, 47. 


Foh. 21:15. 
Mat. 19: 14. 


Joh. 3 > 3. 


Rev. 6: 11. 
Phil. 3: 21. 


The Goats 
described or the 
several sorts of 
Reprobates on 
the left hand. 
Mat. 24: 51. 


ones, 
Who being chastised, neither despised nor sank amidst 
their groans: 
Who by the Rod were sh nip to God, and loved him 
the more, 
Not murmuring nor quarrelling when they were chast’ned 
sore. 
(24) 
Moreover, such as loved much, that had not such a 
tryal, 
As might constrain to so great pain, and such deep self 
denyal: 
Yet ready were the Cross to bear, when Christ them 
call’d thereto, 
And did rejoyce to hear his voice, they’re counted Sheep 
also. 
(25) 
Christ’s Flock of Lambs there also stands, whose Faith 
_ was weak, yet true; 
All sound Believers (Gospel receivers) whose Grace was 
small, but grew: 
And them among an Infant throng of Babes, for whom 
Christ dy’d; 
Whom for his own, by wayes unknown to men, he sanc- 
tify’d. 
(26) 
All stand before their Saviour in long white Robes yclad, 
Their countenance full of pleasance, appearing wondrous 
glad. 
O glorious sight! Behold how bright dust heaps are made 
to shine, 
Conformed so their Lord unto, whose Glory is Divine. 


(27) 

At Christ’s left hand the Goats do stand, all whining 
hypocrites, 

Who for self-ends did seem Christ’s friends, but foster’d 
guileful sprites: 

Who Sheep resembled, but they dissembled (their hearts 
were not sincere) 

Who once did throng Christ’s Lambs among, but now 
must not come near. 


Poetry 
(28) 


Apostates and Run-awayes, such as have Christ forsaken, 
Of whom the Devil, with seven more evil, hath fresh 
possession taken: 
Sinners in grain, reserv’d to pain and torments most 
severe: 
Because ’gainst light they sinn’d with spight, are also 
placed there. 
(29) 
There also stand a num/’rous band, that no Profession 
made 
Of Godliness, nor to redress their wayes at all essay’d: 
Who better knew, but (sinful Crew) Gospel and Law 
despised; 
Who all Christ’s knocks withstood like blocks and would 
not be advised. 
(30) 
Moreover, there with them appear a number, numberless 
Of great and small, vile wretches all, that did Gods Law 
transgress: 
Idolaters, false worshippers, Prophaners of Gods Name, 
Who not at all thereon did call, or took in vain the 
same. 
(31) 
Blasphemers lewd, and Swearers shrewd, Scoffers at 
Purity, 
That hated God, contemn’d his Rod, and lov’d Security; 
Sabbath-polluters, Saints persecuters, Presumptuous men 
and Proud, 


Who never lov’d those that reprov’d; all stand amongst 

this Crowd. 
(32) 

Adulterers and Whoremongers were © there, with all un- 
chast: 

There Covetous, and Ravenous, that Riches got too fast: 

Who us’d vile ways themselves to raise t’? Estates and 
worldly wealth, 

Oppression by, or Knavery, by force, or fraud, or stealth. 


(33) 
Moreover, there together were Children flagitious, 
And Parents who did them undo by Nurture vicious. 


593 


Luk. 11 : 24, 26. 
Heb. 6: 4, 5, 6. 
Heb. 10: 29. 


Luk. 12: 47. 
Prov. 1: 24, 26. 
Joh. 3: 19. 


Gal. 3: 10. 
1 Cor. 6: 9. 
Rev. 21: 8. 


Exod. 20: 
750: 


2 Thes. 1: 
6, 8, 9. 


Heb. 13: 4. 
1 Cor. 6: 10. 


594 


Rach. 5: 3, 4. 
Gal. 5: 19, 
20, 21. 

Rom. 2:13. 
Abbas F2. 

1 Cor. 6: 3. 
Jude 6. 


The Puritans 


False-witness-bearers, and _ self-torswearers, Murd’rers, 
and Men of blood, 

Witches, Inchanters, & Ale house-haunters, beyond ac- 
count there stood. 


(34) 

Their place there find all Heathen blind, that Natures 
light abused, 

Although they had no tydings glad of Gospel-grace re- 
fused. 

There stands all Nations and Generations of Adam’s 
Progeny, 

Whom Christ redeem’d not, who Christ esteem’d not 
through Infidelity. 


(35) 


Who no Peace-maker, no Undertaker, ’ to shrow’d them 
from Gods ire 

Ever obtain’d; they must be pained with everlasting 
fire. 

These num’rous bands wringing their hands, and weep- 

ing all stand there, 

Filled with anguish, whose hearts do languish through 

self-tormenting fear. 


(36) 

Fast by them stand at Christ’s left hand the Lion fierce 
and fell, 

The Dragon bold, that Serpent old, that hurried Souls 
to Hell. 

There also stand, under command, Legions of Sprights 
unclean, 

And hellish Fiends, that are no friends to God, nor unto 
Men. 


(37) 

With dismal chains, and strongest reins, like Prisoners 
of Hell, 

They’re held in place before Christ’s face, till He their 
Doom shall tell. 

These void of tears, but fill’d with fears, and reoo te 
expectation 

Of endless pains, and scalding flames, stand waiting for 
Damnation. 


Poetry 


(38) 
All silence keep both Goats and Sheep before the Judge’s 
Throne: 
With mild aspect to his Elect then spake the Holy One; 
My Sheep draw near, your Sentence hear, which is to 
you no dread, 


Who clearly now discern, and know your sins are par- 
doned. 
(39) 
*Twas meet that ye should judged be, that so the world 
may spy 
No cause of grudge, when as I Judge and deal im- 
partially. 
Know therefore all, both great and small, the ground 
and reason why 
These Men do stand at my right hand, and look so 
chearfully. 
(40) 
These Men be those my Father chose before the worlds 
foundation, 
And to me gave, that I should save from Death and 
Condemnation. 
For whose dear sake I flesh did take, was of a Woman 
born. 
And did inure my self t’ indure, unjust reproach and 


scorn. 
(41) 


For them it was that I did pass through sorrows many 
one: 

That I drank up that bitter Cup, which made me sigh 
and groan. | 

The Cross his pain I did sustain; yea more, my Fathers 
ire 

I underwent, my Blood I spent to save them from Hell 
fire. 

(42) 

Thus I esteem’d, thus I redeem’d all these from every 
Nation, 

That they may be (as now you see) a chosen Genera- 
tion. 

What if ere-while they were as vile, and bad as any be, 

And yet from all their guilt and thrall at once I set 
them free? 


595 


The Saints 
cleared & 


justified. 


2 Cor. 5: 10. 
Eccles. 3:17. 
Joh. 3: 18. 


JOLT. O 
Eph. : 4. 


Rev. 1: 5. 


Eph. 2: 


596 


Mat. 20: 


12015. 
Rom. 9: 20, 21. 


Isa. 533.45 
By Tas 


Acts 13: 48. 
Jam. 2: 18. 
Heb. 12: 7. 
Mat. 19: 29. 


1 Fohn 3: 3. 
Mat. 25 : 39, 40. 


Isa. 53:11, 12. 
Rom. 8: 16, 17, 


33> 34- 
John 3: 18. 


The Puritans 


(43) 


My grace to one is wrong to none: none can Election 
claim, 

Amongst all those their souls that lose, none can Rejec- 
tion blame. 

He that may chuse, or else refuse, all men to save or 
spill, . 

May this Man chuse, and that refuse, redeeming whom ' 
he will. 

(44) 

But as for those whom I have chose Salvations heirs to 
be, 

I underwent their punishment, and therefore set them 
free; 

I bore their grief, and their relief by suffering procur’d, 

That they of bliss and happiness might firmly be assur’d. 


(45) 


And this my grace they did imbrace, believing on my 
Name; 

Which Faith was true, the fruits do shew proceeding 
from the same: 

Their Penitence, their Patience, their Love and Self- 
denial 

In suffering losses, and bearing Crosses, when put upon 
the tryal. 

(46) 

Their sin forsaking, their chearful taking my yoke, their 
Charity 

Unto the Saints in all their wants, and in them unto me, 

These things do clear, and make appear their Faith to 
be unfaigned, 

And that a part in my desert and purchase they have 
gained. 


(47) 
Their debts are paid, their peace is made, their sins 
remitted are; 

Therefore at once I do pronounce, and openly declare 
That Heav’n is theirs, that they be Heirs of Life and 
of Salvation! 
Nor ever shall they come at all to Death or to Damna- 

tion. 


Poetry 


(48) 
Come, Blessed Ones, and sit on Thrones, Judging the 
World with me: 
Come, and possess your happiness, and bought felicitie. 
Henceforth no fears, no care, no tears, no sin shall you 
annoy, 
Nor any thing that grief doth bring: Eternal Rest enjoy. 


(49) 

You bore the Cross, you suffered loss of all for my Names 
sake: 

Receive the Crown that’s now your own; come, and a 
Kingdom take. 

Thus spake the Judge, the wicked Grhidee: and grind 
their teeth in vain; 

They see with groans these plac’t on Thrones which 
addeth to their pain: 


(50) 

That those whom they did wrong and slay, must now their 
judgment see! 

Such whom they slighted, and once despighted, must now 
their Judges be! 

Thus ’tis decreed, such is their meed, and guerdon 
glorious! 

With Christ they sit, Judging is fit to plague the Impious. 


(51) | 

The wicked are brought to the Bar, like guilty Male- 
factors, 

That oftentimes of bloody Cut and Treasons have 
been Actors. 

Of wicked Men, none are so mean as there to be neg- 
lected: 

Nor none so high in dignity, as there to be respected. 


(52) 
The glorious Judge will priviledge nor Emperour, nor 
King: 
But every one that hath mis-done doth into Judgment 
bring. 
And every one that hath mis-done, the Judge impartially 
Condemneth to eternal wo, and endless misery. 


yl 


Luk. 22: 


29, 30. 
Mat. 19: 28. 


Mat. 25: 34. 
They are 
placed on 
Thrones to 
joyn with 
Christ in 
judging the 
wicked. 


1 Cor. 6: 2. 


The wicked 
brought to the 
Bar. 

Rom. 2: 3, 
6, 11. 


Rev. 6: 
15, 16. 
Isa. 30: 33. 


598 


Fecles. 11: 
9 & 12: 14. 


Secret sins and 
works of dark- 
ness brought 
to light. 

Psal. 139: 

2, 4; 12. 
Rom. 2: 16. 


The Puritans 


(53) 


Thus one and all, thus great and small, the Rich as well 
as Poor, 

And those of place as the most base, do stand the Judge 
before. 

They are arraign’d, and there detain’d, before Christ’s 
Judgment-seat 

With trembling fear, their Doom to hear, and feel his, 
angers heat. 


(54) 

There Christ demands at all their hands a strict and 
strait account 

Of all things done under the Sun, whose number far 
surmount . 

Man’s wit and thought: yet all are brought unto this 
solemn Tryal; 

And each offence with evidence, so that there’s no denial. 


(55) 


There’s no excuses for their abuses, since their own Con- 
sciences 

More proof give in of each Man’s sin, than thousand 
Witnesses, 

Though formerly this faculty had grosly been abused, 

Men could it stifle, or with it trifle, when as it them 
accused. 


(56) 
Now it comes in, and every sin unto Mens charge doth 
lay: | 
It judgeth them, and doth condemn, though all the world 
say nay. 
It so stingeth and tortureth, it worketh such distress, 
That each Man’s self against himself, is forced to confess. 


(57) 
It’s vain, moreover, for Men to cover the least iniquity: 
The Judge hath seen, and privy been to all their villany. 
He unto light, and open sight the works of darkness 
brings: 
He doth unfold both new and old, both known and 
hidden things. 


Poetry 


(58) 

All filthy facts, and secret acts, however closly done, 

And long conceal’d, are there reveal’d before the mid- 
day Sun. 

Deeds of the night shunning the light, which darkest 
corners sought, 

To fearful blame, and endless shame, are there most 
justly brought. 


(59) 

And as all facts and grosser acts, so every word and 
thought, 

Erroneous notion, and lustful motion, are unto judgment 
brought. 

No sin so small and trivial but hither it must come: 

Nor so long past, but now at last it must receive a 
doom. 


(188) 


The Judge is strong, doers of wrong cannot his power 
withstand: 

None can by flight run out of sight, nor scape out of his 
hand. 

Sad is their state: for Advocate to plead their Cause 
there’s none: 

None to prevent their punishment, or misery bemone. 


(189) 
O dismal day! whither shall they for help and succour 
flee? 
To God above, with hopes to move their greatest Enemee: 
His wrath is great, whose burning heat no floods of tears 
can slake: 


His word stands fast, that they be cast into the burning 

Lake. 
(190) 

To Christ their Judge, he doth adjudge them to the 
Pit of Sorrow; 

Nor will he hear, or cry, or tear, nor respite them one 
morrow. . 

To Heav’n alas, they cannot pass, it is against them shut; 

To enter there (O heavy cheer) they out of hopes are 
put. 


ae 


Eccles. 12: 14. 


Mat. 12: 36. 
Rom. 7: 7. 
Mat. 28: 18. 
Psal. 139: 7. 
Isa. 333 14. 
Psal. 11: 6. 
Numb. 23: 19. 
Mait. 25: 41. 
Mait. 25: 


10, II, 12. 


600 


Luk; 12: 20. 
Psal. 49: 7, 17- 


Deut. 32: 22. 


2 Pet. 3: 10. 


Mait. 13: 
41, 42. 


Rev. 20: 13, 15. 


Luk. 16: 28. 


Rev. 21: 4. 


Psal. 58: 10. 


The Puritans 


(191) 
Unto their Treasures, or to their Pleasures, all these 
have them forsaken: 


Had they full Coffers to make large offers, their Gold 


would not be taken 

Unto the place where whilome was their Birth and Edu- 
cation? 

Lo! Christ begins for their great sins to fire the Earths 
Foundation: 


(192) 
And by and by the flaming Sky shall drop like molten 
Lead 
About their ears, t’increase their fears, and aggravate 
their dread. 
To Angels good that ever stood in their integrity, 
Should they betake themselves, and make their sute in- 
cessantly? 
(193) 
They neither skill,? nor do they will to work them any 
ease: 
They will not mourn to see them burn, nor beg for their 
release. 
To wicked men, their bretheren, in sin and wickedness, 
Should they make mone? their case is one, they’re in 
the same distress. 
(194) 
Ah, cold comfort, and mean support from such like Com- 
forters! 
Ah, little joy of Company, and fellow-sufferers! 
Such shall increase their hearts disease, and add unto 
their woe, 
Because that they brought to decay themselves and many 
moe.? 
(195) 
Unto the Saints with sad complaints should they them- 
selves apply? 
They’re not dejected, nor ought affected with all their 
misery. 
Friends stand aloof, and make no proof what Prayers 
or Tears can do: | 
Your godly friends are now more friends to Christ than 
unto you. 


Poetry 
(196) 
Where tender love mens hearts did move unto a sym- 
pathy, 


And bearing part of others smart in their anxiety; 

Now such compassion is out of fashion, and wholly laid 
aside: 

No Friends so near, but Saints to hear their Sentence 
can abide. 


(197) 
One natural Brother beholds another in this astonied fit, 
Yet sorrows not thereat a jot, nor pitties him a whit. 
The godly wife conceives no grief, nor can she shed a 
tear 


For the sad state of her dear Mate, when she his doom 
doth hear, 


(198) 

He that was erst a Husband pierc’t with sense of Wives 
distress, 

Whose tender heart did bear a part of all her griev- 
ances, 

Shall mourn no more as heretofore because of her ill 
plight; 

Although he see her now to be a damn’d forsaken wight. 


(199) 

The tender Mother will own no other of all her numerous 
brood, 

But such as stand at Christ’s right hand acquitted 
through his Blood. 

The pious Father had now much rather his graceless 
Son should ly 

In Hell with Devils, for all his evils burning eternally, 


(200) 


Then God most high should injury, by sparing him 
sustain; 

And doth rejoyce to hear Christ’s voice adjudging him 
to pain; 

Who having all, both great and small, convine’d and 
silenced, 

Did then proceed their Doom to read, and thus it uttered: 


601 


Ei Cor.:6 32) 


Compare 

Prov. 1 +26. 
with 1 Joh. 3: 
2..6¢2. Cor, 
R210: 


Luk. 16: 25. 


Psal. 58: 10. 


602 


The Judge 
pronounceth 
the Sentence 
of condemna- 
tion. 

Mat. 25: 41. 


The terrour of it. 


Luk. 13: 28. 


Prov. 1 : 26. 


It is put in 
Execution. 


The Puritans 


(201) 


Ye sinful wights, and cursed sprights, that work Iniquity, 

Depart together from me for ever to endless Misery; 

Your portion take in yonder Lake, where Fire and Brimstone 
flameth: 


Suffer the smart, which your desert as it’s due wages claimeth. 


(202) 
Oh piercing words more sharp than swords! what, to 
depart from Thee, 
Whose face before for evermore the best of Pleasures be! 
What? to depart (unto our smart) from thee Eternally: 
To be for aye banish’d away, with Devils company! 


(203) 

What? to be sent to Punishment, and flames of Burning 
Fire, 

To be surrounded, and eke confounded with Gods Re- 
vengeful tre. 

What? to abide, not for a tide these Torments, ie for 
Ever: 

To be released, or to be eased, not after years, but Never. 


(204) 
Oh, fearful Doom! now there’s no room for hope or help 
at all: 
Sentence is past which aye shall last, Christ will not it 
recall. 
There might you hear them rent and tear the Air with 
their out-cries: 
The hideous noise of their sad voice ascendeth to the 
Skies. 
(205) 
They wring their hands, their caitiff-hands and gnash 
their teeth for terrour; 
They cry, they roar for anguish sore, and gnaw their 
tongues for horrour. 
But get away without delay, Christ pitties not your cry: 
Depart to Hell, there may you yell, and roar Eternally. 


(206) 


That word, Depart, maugre their heart, drives every 
wicked one, — 

With mighty pow’r, the self-same hour, far from the 
Judge’s Throne, 


ae oe 


Poetry 


Away they’re chased !° by the strong blast of his Death- 
threatning mouth: 

They flee full fast, as if in haste, although they be full 
loath. 

(207) 

As chaff that’s dry, and dust doth fly before the Northern 
wind: 

Right so are they chased away, and can no Refuge find. 

They hasten to the Pit of Wo, guarded by Angels stout; 

Who to fulfil Christ’s holy will, attend this wicked Rout. 


(208) 


Whom having brought, as they are taught, unto the 
brink of Hell 

(That dismal place far from Christ’s face, where Death 
and Darkness dwell: 

Where Gods fierce Ire kindleth the fire, and vengeance 
feeds the flame 

With piles of Wood, and Brimstone Flood, that none 
can quench the same, ) 


(209) 
With Iron bands they bind their hands, and cursed feet 
together, 
And cast them all, both great and small, into that Lake 
for ever. 
Where day and night, without respite, they wail, and 
cry, and howl 
For tort’ring pain, which they sustain in Body and in 
Soul. 
(210) 


For day and night, in their despight, their torments 
smoak ascendeth. 

Their pain and grief have no liek their anguish never 
endeth. 

There must they ly, and never dy, though dying every 
day: 

There must they dying ever ly, and not consume away. 


(211) 
Dy fain they would, if dy they could, but Death will 
not be had; 
God’s direful wrath their bodies hath for ev’r Immortal 
made. 


603 


Mat. 25: 46. 


Matt. 13: 41, 
42. 


HELL. 

Mat. 25: 30. 
Mark. 9: 43. 
Isa. 30: 33. 
Rev. 21: 8. 


Wicked Men 
and Devils 

cast into it for 
ever. 

Mat. 22:13. & 
25: 46. 


Rev. 14.3 10, 11. 


604 


The unsufferable 
torments of the 
damned. 

Luk. 16: 24. 


Jude 7. 


Isa. 33:14. 
Mark 9: 


43> 44- 


Luk. 12: 47. 


Mat. 11: 24. 


Luk. 16: 


23, 25. 
Luk. 13: 28. 


The Puritans 


They live to ly in misery, and bear eternal wo; 
And live they must whilst God is just, that he may plague 
them so. 


(212) 


But who can tell the Pari of Hell, and torments 
exquisite? 

Who can relate their dismal state, and terrours infinite? 

Who fare the best, and feel. the least, yet feel that punish- 
ment 

Whereby to nought they should be brought, if God did 
not prevent. 


(213) 

The least degree of miserie there felt’s incomparable, 

The lightest pain they there sustain more than intoler- 
able. 

But God’s great pow’r from hour to hour upholds them 
in the fire, 

That they shall not consume a jot, nor by it’s force 
expire. 


(214) 

But ah, the wo they undergo (they more than all besides) 

Who had the light, and knew the right, yet would not 
it abide. 

The sev’n-fold smart, which to their part, and portion 
doth fall, 

Who Christ his Grace would not imbrace, nor hearken 
to his call. 


(215) 
The Amorites and Sodomites although their plagues be sore, 
Yet find some ease, compar’d to these, who feel a great 
deal more. 
Almighty God, whose Iron Rod, to smite them never lins,"4 
Doth most declare his Justice rare in plaguing these mens 
sins. 


(216) 


The pain of loss their Souls doth toss, and wond’rously 
distress, 

To think what they have cast away by wilful wickedness. 

We might have been redeem’d from sin, think they, and 
liv’d above, 

Being possest of heav’nly rest, and joying in God’s love. 


Poetry 
(217) 


But wo, wo, wo our Souls unto! we would not happy be; 

And therefore bear Gods Vengeance here to all Eternitee. 

Experience and woful sense must be our painful teachers 

Who n’ould ! believe, nor credit give, unto our faithful 
Preachers. 


(218) 


Thus shall they ly, and wail, and cry, tormented, and 
tormenting 

Their galled hearts with pois’ned darts but now too late 
repenting. 

There let them dwell i’th’ Flames of Hell; there leave we 
them to burn, 

And back agen unto the men whom Christ acquits, re- 
turn. 


(219) 

The Saints behold with courage bold, and thankful 
wonderment, 

To see all those that were their foes thus sent to punish- 
ment: 

Then do they sing unto their King a Song of endless 
Praise: 

They praise his Name, and do proclaim that just are 
all his ways. 


(220) 


Thus with great joy and melody to Heav’n they all as- 
cend, 

Him there to praise with sweetest layes, and Hymns that 
never end, 

Where with long Rest they shall be blest, and nought 
shall them annoy: 

Where they shall see as seen they be, and whom they 
love enjoy. 


(221) 


O glorious Place! where face to face Jehovah may be 
seen, 

By such as were sinners whilere and no dark vail between. 

Where the Sun shine, and light Divine, of Gods bright 
Countenance, 

Doth rest upon them every one, with sweetest influence, 


605 


Euk. 13: 34. 


Mark 9: 44. 
Rom. 2:15. 


The Saints 
rejoyce to see 
Judgment 
executed upon 

the wicked 
World. 

Ps. 58 210. 
Rev. 19:1, 2, 3. 


They ascend 
with Christ 
into Heaven 
triumphing. 
Mat. 25: 46. 
I Joh. 3: 2. 

1 Cor. 133.12, 


Their Eternal 
happiness and 
incomparable 
Glory there. 


606 


Rev. 21: 4. 


Psal. 16: 11. 


Heb. 12: 23. 


Rev. 1: 6. 
& 22:5. 


Isa. 57 15. 


Mark 3: 29. 
Mat. 25: 46. 


The Puritans 


(222) 


O blessed state of the Renate! O wondrous Happiness, 

To which they’re brought, beyond what thought can 
reach, or words express! 

Griefs water-course, and sorrows sourse, are turn’d to 
joyful streams. . 

Their old distress and heaviness are vanished like dreams. 


(223) 

For God above in arms of love doth dearly them em- 
brace, 

And fills their sprights with such delights, and pleasures 
in his grace; 

As shall not fail, nor yet grow stale through frequency 
of use: | 

Nor do they fear Gods favour there, to forfeit by abuse. 


(224) 

For there the Saints are perfect Saints, and holy ones 
-indeed, 

From all the sin that dwelt within their mortal bodies 
freed: 

Made Kings and Priests to God through Christs dear 
loves transcendency, 

There to remain, and there to reign with him Eternally. 


[The End] 


A SHORT DISCOURSE ON ETERNITY. 
(1) 3 


HAT mortal man can with his Span mete out 
Eternity? 
Or fathom it by depth of Wit, or strength of Memory? 
The lofty Sky is not so high, Hells depth to this is 
small: 
The World so wide is but a stride, compared therewithall. 


(2) | 
It is a main great Ocean, withouten bank or bound: 
A deep Abyss, wherein there is no bottom to be found. 


Poetry 


This World hath stood now since the Flood, four thou- 
sand years well near, 

And had before endured more than sixteen hundred 
year. 


(19) 
Then, Ah poor men! what, not till then? No, not an 
hour before: 
For God is just, and therefore must torment them ever- 
more. 
Erernity! Erernity! thou mak’st hard hearts to bleed: 


The thoughts of thee in misery, do make men wail in- 
deed. 


(20) 

When they remind what’s still behind, and ponder this 
word NEVER, 

That they must here be made to bear Gods Vengeance 
for EVER: 

The thought of this more bitter is, then all they feel 
beside: 

Yet what they feel, nor heart of steel, nor Flesh of Brass 
can bide. 


(21) 

To lye in wo, and undergo the direful pains of Hell, 

And know withall, that there they shall for aye, and ever 
dwell; 

And that they are from rest as far when fifty thousand 
year, 

Twice told, are spent in punishment, as when they first 
came there. 


(22) 

This, Oh! this makes Hells fiery flakes much more in- 
tolerable; 

This makes frail wights and damned sprights, to bear their 
plagues unable. 

This makes men bite, for fell despite, their very tongues 
in twain: 

This makes them rore for great horror, and trebleth all 
their pain. 


[The End] 


Mark 9: 43; 44, 
45, 46, Ge. 


2 Thes. 1: 
8, 9. 


Mat. 25: 46. 
Rev. 14: 
10, II. 


608 


The Puritans 


A SONG OF EMPTINESS, 
To FILL uP THE Empty PAGES FOLLOWING. 
VANITY OF VANITIES. 


AIN, frail, short liv’d, and miserable Man, 
Learn what thou art when thine estate is best: 
A restless Wave o’th’ troubled Ocean, 
A Dream, a lifeless Picture finely drest: 


A Wind, a Flower, a Vapour, and a Bubble, 

A. Wheel that stands not still, a trembling Reed, 

A rolling Stone, dry Dust, light Chaff, and Stubble, 
A Shadow of Something, but nought indeed. 


Learn what deceitful Toyes, and empty things, 
This World, and all its best Enjoyments bee: 
Out of the Earth no true Contentment springs, 
But all things here are vexing Vanitee. 


For what is Beauty, but a fading Flower? 

Or what is Pleasure, but the Devils bait, 

Whereby he catcheth whom he would devour, 
And multitudes of Souls doth ruinate? . 


And what are Friends but mortal men, as we? 
Whom Death from us may quickly separate; 
Or else their hearts may quite estranged be, 
And all their love be turned into hate. 


And what are Riches to be doted on? 

Uncertain, fickle, and ensnaring things; 

They draw Mens Souls into Perdition, 

And when most needed, take them to their wings. 


Ah foolish Man! that sets his heart upon 

Such empty Shadows, such wild Fowl as these, 
That being gotten will be quickly gone, 

And whilst they stay increase but his disease. 


As in a Dropsie, drinking draughts begets, 
The more he drinks, the more he still requires: 
So on this World whoso affection sets, 


“His Wealths encrease encreaseth his desires, 


Poetry - 
O happy Man, whose portion is above, 
Where Floods, where Flames, where Foes cannot 
bereave him, 


Most wretched man, that fixed hath his love 
Upon this World, that surely will deceive him! 


For, what is Honour? What is Sov’raignty, 
Whereto mens hearts so restlesly aspire? 
Whom have they Crowned with Felicity? 
When did they ever satisfie desire? 


The Ear of Man with hearing is not fill’d: 

To see new sights still coveteth the Eye: 

The craving Stomack though it may be still’d, 
Yet craves again without a new supply. 


All Earthly things, man’s Cravings answer not, 
Whose little heart would all the World contain, 
(If a the World should fall to one man’s Lot) 

And notwithstanding empty still remain. 


The Eastern Conquerour was said to weep, 
When he the Indian Ocean did view, 

To see his Conquest bounded by the Deep, 
And no more Worlds remaining to subdue. 


Who would that man in his Enjoyments bless, 
_Or envy him, or covet his estate, 

Whose gettings do augment his greediness, 

And make his wishes more intemperate? 


Such is the wonted and the common guise 

Of those on Earth that bear the greatest Sway: | 
If with a few the case be otherwise 

They seek a Kingdom that abides for ay. 


a 


Moreover they, of all the Sons of men, 

That Rule, and are in highest places set, 

Are most inclin’d to scorn their Bretheren 
And God himself (without great grace) forget. 


* For as the Sun doth blind the gazer’s eyes, 
That for a time they nought discern aright: 
So Honour doth befool and blind the Wise, 
And their own Lustre ’reaves them of their sight. 


610 , The Puritans 


Great are their Dangers, manifold their Cares; 
Thro’ which, whilst others Sleep, they scarcely Nap: 
And yet are oft surprized unawares, 

And fall unweeting into Envies Trap! 


The mean Mechanick finds his kindly rest, 
All void of fear Sleepeth the Country-Clown, 
When greatest Princes often are distrest, 
And cannot Sleep upon their Beds of Down. 


Could Strength or Valour men Immortalize, 
Could Wealth or Honour keep them from decay, 
There were some cause the same to Idolize, 
And give the lye to that which I do say. 


But neither can such things themselves endure 
Without the hazard of a Change one hour, 

Nor such as trust in them can they secure 
From dismal dayes, or Deaths prevailing pow’r. 


If Beauty could the beautiful defend 

From Death’s dominion, than fair Absalom 
Had not been brought to such a shameful end: 
But fair and foul unto the Grave must come. 


If Wealth or Scepters could Immortal make, 

Then wealthy Cresus, wherefore art thou dead? 
If Warlike force, which makes the World to quake, 
Then why is Julius Cesar perished? 


1 Where are the Sczpio’s ‘Thunder-bolts of War? 
Renowned Pompey, Cesars Enemie? 
Stout Hannibal, Romes Terror known so far? 
Great Alexander, what’s become of thee? 


If Gifts and Bribes Death’s favour might but win, 
If Power, if force, or Threatnings might it fray, 
All these, and more, had still surviving been: 
But all are gone, for Death will have no Nay. 


Such is this World with all her Pomp and Glory, 
Such are the men whom worldly eyes admire: 
Cut down by Time, and now become a Story, 
That we might after better things aspire. 


Poetry 


Go boast thy self of what thy heart enjoyes, 
Vain Man! triumph in all thy worldly Bliss: 
Thy best enjoyments are but Trash and Toyes: 
Delight thy self in that which worthless is. 


Omnia praetereunt praeter amare Deum. 


GOD’S CONTROVERSY WITH NEW-ENGLAND 
WRITTEN IN THE TIME OF THE GREAT DROUGHT ANNO 1662. 


[Gop sPEAKS AGAINST THE LANGUISHING STATE 
oF NEw-ENGLAND]| 


RE THESE the men that erst at my command 
Forsook their ancient seats and native soile, 
To follow me into a desart land, 
Contemning all the travell and the toile, 
Whose love was such to purest ordinances 
As made them set at nought their fair inheritances? 


Are these the men that prized libertee 
To walk with God according to their light, 
To be as good as he would have them bee, 
To serve and worship him with all their might, 
Before the pleasures which a fruitfull field, 
And country flowing-full of all good things, could yield, 


Are these the fold whom from the brittish Iles, 
Through the stern billows of the watry main, 
I safely led so many thousand miles, 
As if their journey had been through a plain? 
Whom having from all enemies protected, 
And through so many deaths and dangers well directed, 


I brought and planted on the western shore, 

Where nought but bruits and salvage wights did swarm 
(Untaught, untrain’d, untam’d by vertue’s lore) 

That sought their blood, yet could not do them harm? 
My fury’s flaile them thresht, my fatall broom 

Did sweep them hence, to make my people elbow-room, 


612 | The Puritans 


Are these the men whose gates with peace I crown’d, 
To whom for bulwarks I salvation gave, 
Whilst all things else with rattling tumults sound, 
And mortall frayes send thousands to the grave? 
Whilest their own brethren bloody hands embrewed 
In brothers blood, and fields with carcases bestrewed? 


Is this the people blest with bounteous store, 
By land and sea full richly clad and fed, 
Whom plenty’s self stands waiting still before, 

And powreth out their cups well tempered? 
For whose dear sake an howling wildernes 
I Jately turned into a fruitfull paradeis? 


Are these the people in whose hemisphere 

Such bright-beam/d, glist’ring, sun-like starrs I placed 
As by their influence did all things cheere, 

As by their light blind ignorance defaced, 
As errours into lurking holes did fray, 

As turn’d the late dark night into a lightsome day? 


b) 


Are these the folk to whom I milked out 
And sweetnes stream’d from consolations brest; 

Whose soules I fed and strengthened throughout 
With finest spirituall food most finely drest? 

On whom I rained living bread from Heaven, 
Withouten Errour’s bane, or Superstition’s leaven? 


With whom I made a Covenant of peace, 
And unto whom I did most firmly plight 
My faithfulness, If whilst I live I cease 
To be their Guide, their God, their full delight; 
Since them with cords of love to me I drew, 
Enwrapping in my grace such as should them ensew. 


Are these the men, that now mine eyes behold, 
Concerning whom I thought, and whilome spake, 
First Heaven shall pass away together scrold, 
Ere they my lawes and righteous wayes forsake, 
Or that they slack to runn their heavenly race? 
Are these the same? or are some others come in place? 


If these be they, how is it that I find 
In stead of holiness Carnality, 


Poetry: | 613 


In stead of heavenly frames an Earthly mind, 
For burning zeal luke-warm Indifferency, 
For flaming love, key-cold Dead-heartedness, 
For temperance (in meat, and drinke, and cloaths) excess? 


Whence cometh it, that Pride, and Luxurie 

Debate, Deceit, Contention, and Strife, 
False-dealing, Covetousness, Hypocrisie 

(With such like Crimes) amongst them are so rife, 
That one of them doth over-reach another? 

And that an honest man can hardly trust his Brother? 


How is it, that Security, and Sloth, 
Amongst the best are Common to be found? 
That grosser sins, in stead of Graces growth, 
Amongst the many more and more abound? 
I hate dissembling shews of Holiness. 
Or practise as you talk, or never more profess. 


Judge not, vain world, that all are hypocrites 
That do profess more holiness then thou: 
All foster not dissembling, guilefull sprites, 
Nor love their lusts, though very many. do. 
Some sin through want of care and constant watch, 
Some with the sick converse, till they the sickness catch. 


Some, that maintain a reall root of grace, 
Are overgrown with many noysome weeds, 
Whose heart, that those no longer may take place, 
The benefit of due correction needs. 
And such as these however gone astray 
I shall by stripes reduce into a better way. 


Moreover some there be that still retain 
Their ancient vigour and sincerity; 
Whom both their own, and others sins, constrain 
To sigh, and mourn, and weep, and wail, & cry: 
And for their sakes I have forborn to powre 
My wrath upon Revolters to this present houre. 


To praying Saints I always have respect, 
And tender love, and pittifull regard: 
Nor will I now in any wise neglect 
Their love and faithfull service to reward; 


614 The Puritans 


Although I deal with others for their folly, 
And turn their mirth to tears that have been too jolly. 


For thinke not, O Backsliders, in your heart, 
That I shall still your evill manners beare: 
Your sinns me press as sheaves do load a cart, 
And therefore I will plague you for this geare 
Except you seriously, and soon, repent, 
Ile not delay your pain and heavy punishment. 


And who be those themselves that yonder shew? 

The seed of such as name my dreadfull Name! 
On whom whilere compassions skirt I threw 

Whilest in their blood they were, to hide their shame! 
Whom my preventing love did neer me take! 

Whom for mine own I mark’t, lest they should me forsake! 


I look’t that such as these to vertue’s Lore 

(Though none but they) would have Enclin’d their ear: 
That they at least mine image should have bore, 

And sanctify’d my name with awfull fear. 
Let pagan’s Bratts pursue their lusts, whose meed 

Is Death: For christians children are an holy seed. 


But hear O Heavens! Let Earth amazed stand; 

Ye Mountaines melt, and Hills come flowing down: 
Let horro*® seize upon both Sea and Land; 

Let Natures self be cast into a stown. 
I children nourisht, nurtur’d and upheld: 

But they against a tender father have rebell’d. 


What could have been by me performed more? 
Or wherein fell I short of your desire? 

Had you but askt, I would have op’t my store, 
And given what lawfull wishes could require. 

For all this bounteous cost I lookt to see 
Heaven-reaching-hearts, & thoughts, Meekness, Humility. . . . 


One wave another followeth, 
And one disease begins 

Before another cease, becaus 
We turn not from our sins. 

We stopp our ear against reproof, 
And hearken not to God: 

God stops his ear against o* prayer, 
And takes not off his rod. 


Poetry 


Our fruitful seasons have been turnd 
Of late to barrenness, 
Sometimes through great & parching drought, 
Sometimes through rain’s excess. 
Yea now the pastures & corn fields 
For want of rain do languish: 
The cattell mourn, & hearts of men 
Are fill’d with fear & anguish. 


The clouds are often gathered, 
As if we should have rain: 

But for of great unworthiness 
Are scattered again. 

We pray & fast, & make fair shewes, 
As if we meant to turn: 

But whilst we turn not, God goes on 
Our field, & fruits to burn. 


And burnt are all things in such sort, 
That nothing now appears, 
But what may wound our hearts with grief, 
And draw foorth floods of teares. 
All things a famine do presage 
In that extremity, 
As if both men, and also beasts, 
Should soon be done to dy. 


This O New-England hast thou got 
By riot, & excess: 

This hast thou brought upon thy self 
By pride & wantonness. 

Thus must thy worldlyness be whipt. 
They, that too much do crave, 

Provoke the Lord to take away 
Such blessings as they have. 


We have been also threatened 
With worser things then these: 
And God can bring them on us still, 
To morrow if he please. 
For if his mercy be abus’d, 
Which holpe us at our need 
And mov’d his heart to pitty us, 
We shall be plagu’d indeed. 


616 : The Puritans 


Beware, O sinful Land, beware; 
And do not think it strange 

That sorer judgements are at hand, 
Unless thou quickly change. 

Or God, or thou, must quickly change; 
Or else thou art undon: 

Wrath cannot Cease, if sin remain, 
Where judgement is begun. 


Ah dear New England! dearest land to me; 
Which unto God hast hitherto been dear, 
And mayst be still more dear than formerlie, 
If to his voice thou wilt incline thine ear. 


Consider wel & wisely what the rod, 

Wherewith thou art from yeer to yeer chastized, 
Instructeth thee. Repent, & turn to God, 

Who wil not have his nurture be despized. 


Thou still hast in thee many praying saints, 
Of great account, and precious with the Lord, 
Who dayly powre out unto him their plaints, 
And strive to please him both in deed & word. 


Cheer on, sweet souls, my heart is with you all, 
And shall be with you, maugre Sathan’s might: 
And whereso’ere this body be a Thrall, 
Still in New-England shall be my delight. 


[The End] 


MEAT OUT OF THE EATER" 
MEDITATION V. 


The fifth perswades to Patvence, 

From that Rich future Recompense; 
Minding us of our Heavenly Rest, 

Which should revive vs when distrest. 


[1] 
EEKLY to bear Christ’s yoke it is an Honour high: 
Thou Christ wilt surely them reward who 
bear it patiently. 
2 Cor. 4:17. For this short Grief of ours, and our Affliction light 
Shall work of glorious Happiness a far more lasting 
weight. 


Poetry 
[2] 


For just men light is sown (reward laid up in store) 


Who sow in tears shall reap in joy, and after mourn no 
more. 
They’ll one day wear a Crown, who now the Cross 
sustain: 
In Christ our Lord no suffering, nor labour shall be 
vain. 


[4] 
Reign with him long shall they, with him that suffer 
do: 
Who follow him in’s Death, partake shall of his Glory 
too. 
Not that our services, deserve such Recompence: 
But he resolveth to set forth his own Munificence. 


[4] 


Who can expect a Crop or Harvest to obtain, 
That breaks no ground, that sows no feed, that under- 
goes no pain? 
To triumph who can hope that doth the Battel shun? 
Eternal Glory whoso findes, must first through rough 


ways run. 
[5] 
Thou art a Pilgrim here; this world is not thy 
home: 
Then be content with Pilgrims fare, till thou to Heaven 
come. | 
What if thou tossed art with boisterous winds and 
seas? 
Behold the Haven where thou shalt enjoy long rest and 
ease. 
[6] 


What if thy conflict with the roaring Lion be? 
If thou be call’d to fight against World, Flesh, and Devil, 
all three. 
Stronger is Christ in thee then strongest Enemy, 
Who Satan under thy Souls feet shall tread down 
speedily. 


617 
PSAP O72 8. 
Psal. 126: 5. 
1 Cor. 15: 58. 


1 Tam. 2712. , 


Isa. 64: 6. 
2 Thess. 1:10. 


Psal. 39: 12. 


Heb. 4: 9. 


Joh. 4: 4. 
Rom. 16: 20. 


618 


Heb. 2: 10. 


Isa. 43: 2. 
Heb: t's 

14, 16. 

Mat. 25: 34. 


2 Cor. 2: 4, 8. 


1 Thes. 4:17. 


Prov. 1: 32. 


The Puritans 


[7] 
Souldier be strong, who fightest under a Captain 
Stout: : 
Dishonour not thy conquering Head by basely giving . 
out. 


Endure a while, Bear up, and hope for better things: 
War ends in peace; and Morning light mounts up on 
Midnights wing. 
[8] 


Through Changes manifold, and Dangers perilous, 
Through fiery flames, and water-floods, through ways 
calamitous. 
We travel towards Heaven a quiet Habitation: 
Christ shews a Kingdom there prepar’d ev’n from the 
worlds foundation. 
[9] 


O Heaven, most holy place, which art our country 
dear! 
What cause have I to long for thee, and Beg with many 
a tear. 
Earth is to me a Prison; this Body an useless wight: 
And all things else vile, vain, and nought, to one in 
such ill plight. 
[10] 


O Christ make haste, from bands, of Sin and Death 
me free; 
And to those Heavenly Mansions, be pleas’d to carry 
me. 
Where glorified Saints for ever are possest, 
Of God in Christ their chiefest Good. And from all 
troubles Rest. : 


MepiTaTion VIII. 


Saints happier be when most distrest, 
Then wicked men are at the best. 


[1] 
E HAVE the wicked view’d, and seen his best 
W estate 
And who would chuse with him to share, except a Rep- 
robate? . 
For sure the Simple’s ease shall turn to his decay: 
And the Prosperity of Fools shall utterly them slay. 


Poetry 
[2] 


When wicked men like Grass do springing up arise, 
When they are in a flourishing case that work iniquities: 
Tis for their cutting down to perpetuity; 
It’s but to ripen them for woe, and endless Misery. 


[3] 


The less Affliction here they feel, the more’s to come: 
The greater Blessings they abuse, the heavier is their 
Doom. 
Now let us take a Saint whom men account accurst, 
Because they judge him plagu’d of God, and view him 
at his worst. 


[4] 


Suppose his case as bad, as bad it well can be: 
And his Calamity more sad then commonly we see. 
Dispose him where you will, do with him what you 
can: 
Yet God is present with him still; he is a happy man. 


[5) 


Let Sickness come, upon him, or great Tormenting 
Pain: 
God will not lose him, but a Saint a Saint shall still 
remain. 
In Prison him immure, all comforts from him take: 
You cannot rob him of his God, nor him unhappy make. 


[6] | 
Plunge him into the mire, or water; God is near: 
Cast him into the burning Fire; God will be with him 
there. 
If many roaring waves of great Affliction roll. 
Over his head: God so supports they cannot sink his 
Soul. 


[7] 


(Jacob in servitude. Joseph in Prison Chains, 
Moses in his long Banishment Heaven’s Favourite still 
remains. 
Three Children in the Fire Daniel i’th’ Lions Den 
Have God to guard them: so had Paul when Shipwrack’d. 
Happy Men!) 


619 


Psal. 92: 7. 


Luk. 16: 
23, 24, 25. 


Jam. 5:11. 
Act. 23: 11. 


Isa. 43: 2. 
Psal. 42: 7, 8. 


620 


Deut. 33 : 
oF: 


Psal. 44: 
17, 18, 22, 


Job i: 2¥. 
& 2:20. 
2 Sam. 16: 11. 


Fob 5: 6. 
1 Kings 22: 


48, 49. 


Heb. 12: 6. 
Joel 2:12. 
Amos 4:12. 


Lam. 3: 40. 
Job 10: 2. 


Job 34: 
31, 32. 
Fob 42: 6. 


The Puritans 
[8] 


The Everlasting Arms are underneath his head 
To bear him up; and hence it comes he is not swal- 
lowed, 
Nor suffered wickedly from God to turn aside: 
As by his carriage will appear when troubles him betide. 


MEDITATION IX. 


The Carriage of a Child of God 
Under his Fathers smarting Rod, 


(1) 
E SEES a hand of God in his Afflictions all, 
And owns it for to be his Rod, Whatever Cross 
befall. 
For whosoever be th’immediate instrument, 
He knows right well that God himself was the Efficient. 


(2) 
And that Afflictions rise not out of the Dust: 
Nor are they order’d by the will of Man, or Devils 
lust. 
If that the Grief be small or the Chastisement light: 
Yet since God finds it not in vain, light strokes he dare 
not slight. 


(3) 


If greater be the Blow, it doth not him dismay: 
Because he knows a Fathers hand such stripes may on 
him lay, 3 , 
But he prepares himself betimes to meet the Lord 
By true Repentance, as he hath commanded in his Word. 


(4) 


To search and try his wayes to find out what’s 
amiss, 
To leave his sins, to loath himself his first great Business 
iS. 
And having once found out what sin hath God of- 
fended; . 


He seriously bewails it, and endeavours to amend it. 


Poetry 
(5) 


Unto the cleansing Blood of Jesus Christ he flies; 
And to his wounded Conscience that Soveraign Balm 
applies: 
Which can both cleanse and heal; both pacifie God’s 
wrath, 
And cure a guilty sin-sick Soul, when ’tis improv’d by 
Faith. 
(6) 


And though he be unworthy to look God in the face; 
Yet through the Merits of his Son he begs and hopes 
for Grace: 
Being right well assur’d that though the Lord chastise 
him; ; 
Yet will he not cast off his Soul, nor utterly despise him. 


[7] 


But if by all his search he cannot find the cause 
For which the Lord afflicteth him, or from his Soul 
withdraws: 
Yet he believeth, that for just and holy ends, 
To humble, purge, and better him the Lord Affliction 
sends. 
[8] 


And though he cannot say, I have at random run, 
Or wickedly by some known sin away from God have 
gon: | 
Yet so much sin he sees both in his heart and wayes, 
As God may judge it meet therefore to scourge him all 
his dayes. 
[9] 


Himself he humbleth under the mighty hand of God: 
And. for the sake of that sweet hand doth kiss the sharpest 
Rod. 
He taketh up his Cross, denieth his own will, 
Advanceth God’s above his own, and yieldeth to him 


still. 
[10] 


Unto the yoke of Christ he doth his neck submit: 
He turns his cheek to him that smites, and meekly 
taketh it. 
Yea when his grief is most, and sorest is his pain: 
He still endeavoureth good thoughts of God for to retain. 


~ 


621 


Heb. 6: 18. 
Psal. 51: 7. 
Job. 2: 2. 
Heb. 9: 14. 
Rev. 1: 5. 


Heb. 4: 

15, 16. 

Job 19: 
25, 26, 27. 
Lam: 32.31, 
OS. 


Fob 102.2, 7% 
Job 7: 2. 
Job 9: 3. 


1 Pet. 5. 


I Sam. 3: 
18. 
Job 2: 10. 


Lam. 3: 29, 3¢. 


Lam. 3: 
22,129, 2h. 


622 


Psal. 73: 
13, 14, 
15, 22. 


Job 13: 15. 


Psal. 88: 


I, 2, 9, 13. 
Psal. 42: 7, 8, 9. 


Psal. 40: 


I, 2, 4. 
Isa. 28: 16. 


Psal. 116: 16. 


Gen. 8: 
13, 14, 16. 


1 Samuel 
26: 9, 11. 


| The Puritans 
[11] 


His earnest care and prayer when greatest is his smart, 
Is that he never may blaspheme God with his mouth 
or heart. 
He beggeth Patience in his extremities 
To bear Gods hand, that so his heart may not against 


him rise. 
[12] 
If murmuring thoughts do rise (or hearts begin to 
swell) 


He strives to beat them down again; he hates such 
thoughts like Hell. 

God he resolves to love, deal with him as he will: 

And in his mercy to confide although he should him kill. 


[13] 
To God that smiteth him he strives to get more near 
He will not cease to pray, although God seem to stop 
his ear. 
Though God hath long delay’d to answer his request, 
Yet will he seek, and never cease, whilst life is in his 
- brest. 


[14] 
He waiteth patiently untill deliverance come, 
And will not use dishonest means to shun what’s trouble- 
some. 
He hates all sinful sleights to get his Cross from under: 
And will not break his Bonds, but stay till God them 
cut asunder. 


[15] 
Noah would not leave his Ark, nor out of Prison break, 
Although he saw the Ground was dry, till God did to him 
speak. 
David refus’d to kill, King Saul his mortal Foe, 
That persecuted him to Death, and wrought him so 


much woe. 
[16] 
He rather chose to wait, till God should plead his 
Cause, 


And of his Enemy him avenge, then for to break God’s 
Laws. 


Poetry 


Thus every Saint will rather, chuse Suffering, then to 
Sin, 
He will not God offend Self-ease, or safety for to win. 


[17] 
But if through Humane frailty, and over-bearing 
power, 
Of Strong Temptation, he do swerve, and fall 1th evil 
hour: 


(As sometimes Peter did,) it grieveth him full sore, 
He weeps and mourns, repents, returns, grows stronger 
then before, 


[18] 
The longer God afflicts him, the better he is for it, 
Love’s Holiness the more, loath’s sin and learneth to 
abhor it. 
The more he is bereft, and stript of outward things: 
The less he dotes on these wild Fowl, that take them to 
their wings. 


[19] 
When creature comforts fail, when sorrows him sur- 
round, 


He takes the faster hold of God, in whom true Comfort’s 


found. 
When Conduit-pipes are stopt, when Streams are 
vanished, 
The more he to the Fountain hastes, and lives at the 
well-head. 


— [20] 
Thus David comforted and cheer’d himself in God, 
When all was gone, although he felt the anguish of the 
Rod. 
Thus acob took fast hold, and wrestled with the Lord, 
When as he was distrest for fear of cruel Esau’s sword. 


[21] 
Prince-like he wrestled and would not let him go, 
Until he had a Blessing got to shield him from his Foe. 
Thus every suffering Saint by wrestling shall prevail, 
And having overcome at last be styled Israel. 


623 


Job 36: 21. 


Mat. 26: 
79, 75- 


Luke 22: 32. 


Psal. 119: 


67, 71. 
GCIs. 9.5 S. 


1 Sam. 30: 6. 
Gen. 32: 
26, 28. 


624 


Psal. 80: 4. 
Psal. 66: 18. 


Lam. 3: 40. 


Fosh. 7: 

13, 14. 

yom? 

4:13, 14, 17. 
Chap. 3: 19, 20. 


Mat. 15: 
23, 24, 29- 


‘The Puritans 


LIGHT IN DARKNESS 3° 
Sone V. 
A Dialogue between the Flesh and Spirit. 
Flesh. [1] 


uT OH methinks the Lord is angry with my Prayers, 
The more I cry to him for help the worse it with 
me fares. 
The more I sue for grace and beg for some relief: 
The more he lets me be distrest, and doubled is my 
orief. 


[2] 
I fear he reckoneth my Prayers to me for sin, 
And rather is displeas’d therewith then takes delight 
therein. 
If God reject my Prayer, I fear he me rejects. 
For how can he despise their Prayer whose persons he 


respects? 
Spirit. [3] 
Against his People’s Prayers the Lord sometimes may 
smoke, 


When some sin unrepented of his anger doth provoke. 
If David sin regard God will not hear his Prayer: 
To search for, find out, mourn for sin, my Soul make 
this thy care. 


[4] 


God puts thee upon search, would have thee diligent 
To find out what offensive is and to be Penitent. 
Be thou displeas’d with sin, and he’ll be pleas’d with 
thee: 
He’ll turn to thee his face, if thou turn from iniquitie. 


[5] 


Some-Times the Lord delayes, and makes us long to 
wait, 
For other ends; as for to make us more importunate; 
To try our Self-denial, our Faith, Love, Patience. 
Sometimes to make his Power shine forth in our de- 
liverance. 


Poetry 
[6] 


He lets our troubles grow unto the greater height, 
That his Salvation might appear more glorious in our 
sight. 
For these, and other more, such great and gracious 
Ends 
The Lord defers to hear our prayer, for he no hurt in- 


tends. 
[7] 
Our Prayers are sometimes heard, not just unto our 
mind, 


Yet heard they are, and answered in some far better 
kind. 

God may deny to grant that thing that we request, 

Yet answer in a better thing, for he knows what is best. 


[8] 
Be silent then frail Flesh, thou favourest not these 
things: 
Thy wisdom doth but vex my Soul; leave off thy Rea- 
sonings. 
Satan by Serpents mouth mankind did undermine: 
And I perceive he now assayes to ruine me by thine. 


Sone VI. 


Another Combate between the Flesh and Spirit. 
Flesh. [1] 


S°s thou hast cause to fear thy Faith will not hold 
out: 
And that it is but counterfeit thou. do’st so often doubt. 
See what a mighty power of Unbelief prevails 
From time to time! and how thine heart and Faith thee 
often fails! 
Spirit. [2] 
Oh sly and sinful flesh! Thou art a treacherous Thief, 
That robs me of my Faith, and then condemns for Un- 
belief. 
They’re thy suggestions vile (that do’st with Hell 
comply) 
That make me doubt, who otherwise on Christ alone 
rely. 


625 


Exod. 14 & 15 
chapters 


Gen. 18: 19. 


2 Cor. 12: 8; 9. 


Gen. 3. 


Phil. 1: 6. 
1) Pet. 15 5. 


Mat. 16: 18. 


Isai. 40: 
275 


28, 


29; 


39; 


31. 


The Puritans 
[3] 


Whole Christ with all my heart I earnestly Embrace; 
And for my whole Salvation I relie upon his grace: 

Renouncing all my own both Righteousness, and Sin; 
Endeav’ring Holiness, as well as Happiness to win. 


[4] : 


And blessed be the Lord, who will compleat my Faith, 
Weak though it be, as he the same at first begotten hath: 

Mean while he it supports; and as himself doth tell, 
It never shall be vanquished by all the force of Hell. 


STRENGTH IN WEAKNESS 
Sone IV. 
[1] 


HY SAY’ST thou Jacob, and, O Israel spoken hast, 
My way is hidden from the Lord, my judgment 
from him past? 
Hast thou not known nor heard, th’Eternal God, the 
«Lord 
Who hath the Ends of all the Earth created by his Word. 


[2] 
He never waxeth faint, nor wearied is he: 
His understanding is so deep it cannot searched be. 
He giveth strength unto the faint and feeble wight: 
And he bestows increase of strength on such as have no 


might. 
[3] 


The youth shall faint and tire, and young men wheey 
But ae that wait upon the Lord their sireneth recover 
fae Ate mount up with wings like Eagles; run shall 
And Be be weary: they shall walk and shall not faint 
away. 


POOR MENS WEALTH 


Tie TALK of Poor mens Wealth, or Rich mens Poverty, 

Seems to the World an Old Wives Tale, or idle foolery: 
But whoso reads our Lines, if God but give him eyes, 

Shall see that these things are no Tales, but Spiritual Mysterves. 


Poetry 627 


MEDITATION I. 


Lt] 
What means this Paradox? How can the Rich be poor? 
Or Poor men Rich? What is their Wealth? Or where is 
all their store? 
I know thy Poverty, saith Christ, yet thou art Rich, Rev. 2. 
To Smyrna’s undefiled Church: thou seest there may be 
such. 
[2] 


But to Laodicea; thou say’st that I am rich, 
But thou art naked, blind and poor, a miserable wretch. Rev. 3:17, 18. 
I counsel thee to buy Eye-salve that thou may’st see, 
Of me; try’d Gold to make thee rich, white Robes to 
cover thee. 
[3] 


The Beggar Lazarus laid at the Rich man’s doores Luk. 16: 
To beg relief, all Ulcerous, and full of running sores; 2° 22; 
When once his Body dies with many griefs opprest: 
His Soul by Angels carried is unto that Heavenly Rest. 


[4] 


The Riotous Epicure, that feasted every day, 
That cloath’d himself with Purple, and most gorgeous 
array: 
He dy’d and went to Hell, suff’ring Eternal Pain. 23. 
What thinkest thou my Soul? which was the richer of 
these twain? 
[5] 


He was a Rich Poor man, whose Poverty prepar’d 
him 
For Heav’n: But he a Poor Rich man whose Worldly 
Wealth ensnar’d him. 
That man is Poor indeed both when he lives and dies, 
That hath some Treasure here on Earth, but none above 
the Skies. 
[6] 


He that enlarg’d his Barns to treasure up his store, Luk. 12: 
Was fetch’d away to Hell that night, and died worse 18; 20, 21. 
then poor. 
And so is every man, that being worldly-wise 
Provides for th’ outward man, but doth the Heavenly 
wealth despise. 


628 


Mat. 9: 33. 
Luk. 16: 9. 


Luk. 12: 33. 


Psal. 17: 4. 


Psal. 73: 
25, 26. 


Mat. 27: 
29, 30. 


The Puritans 


[7] 


All Poor men are not Rich (’twere happy if they were) 

But such as Christ enriched hath, and unto God brought 
near. 

All Rich men are not Poor (that were a woful case) 

But such as have no part in Christ, nor any saving grace. 


[8] 
Let not the poorest Saint despond; for thou art rich: 
Nor richest Worldling bless himself; for thou may’st be a 
wretch. 
But let both Rich and Poor endeavour to make sure 
Of Heavenly Treasure, Spiritual Wealth. This only will 
endure. 


[9] 


If others will be fools and no true wisdom learn: 
Yet what belongs unto my peace, Lord, help me to 
discern. 
To have my portion here Oh never let me chuse, 
Not for the sake of trifling Toyes eternal Joyes refuse. 


[10] 
My Soul craves better things then this World can 
afford: 
Thou art the Portion that I chuse, give me thy self, O 
Lord. 
I shall be richer then, then if I were possest 
Of all the Riches, that are found both in the East and 
West. 


HEAVENLY CROWNS FOR THORNY 
WREATHS. 


Sone I. 


[1] 

HEN Christ was crown’d with Thorns, and smitten 

with a Reed 
Upon the Thorns, to wound his Head and for to make 

him bleed; 

The world did little think this was the King of Glory: 
So when we speak of Crowns for Thorns, they think 

it’s but a story. 


- 


Poetry 
[2] 


But as our Lord doth now his Crown of Glory wear; 
Who for our sake did wear those Thorns, and such 
Abuses bear: 
So shall th’ Afflicted Saints that suffer for his sake 
E’re long be Crowned like their Head, and of his Joyes 


partake. 
[3] 
Those that for doing well, for keeping Christ’s Com- 
mands, 


For bearing witness to his Truth suffer Reproach or 
Bands, 
Or any other Pain to keep their Conscience pure; 
Such of a glorious Recompence and rich Reward are 
sure. 


[4] 


Those that are persecuted because of Righteousness, 
Are Blessed ones, saith Christ, for they Heav’ns Kingdom 
shall possess. 
And Blest are ye whom men revile and persecute, 
To whom for my sake heinous Crimes they wrongfully 
impute. 


[5] 


Rejoyce and be ye glad hereat exceedingly; 
Because there is a great Reward laid up for you on high. 
For thus they persecuted the Prophets that of old 
Reprov’d their sins, and faithfully God’s Counsel to them 
told. 


[6] 
Who Father, Mother Wife, for love of Christ forsakes 
Or of his houses, Lands Estate for him small reckoning 
makes. 
Shall here an hundred fold with persecutions gain; 
And in the world that is to come eternal Life obtain. 


[7] 


If in a suff’ring state of Christ we followers be, 
We shall be unto him conform’d in Royal dignitie. 
Those that have stuck to Christ in Tribulations great 
Shall reign with Christ, and sit with him, upon his 
Judgment seat. 


629 


Rev. 7:14, 15, 
16).5'7%% 


Mat. 5: 10, 11, 
12: 


Mark to: 
29, 30- 


2. Tim. 2: 
II, 12. 


Mat. 19: 28. 


4 


630 The Puritans 
[8] 


But those that suffer pain foul Errours to defend, 
That for vile Fancies of their own dread not their lives © 
to spend 
Such do in vain suppose they suffer for Christ’s sake. 
*Tis not the Suff’ring but the cause that doth a Martyr 
make. 


EDWARD JOHNSON 


[The narrative of Edward Johnson’s Wonder-working Providence (1654) 
(see p. 143) is interspersed with many short verse tributes celebrating 
men and events. One of the best is the epitaph for Roger Harlacken- 
den (1611-1638), the young assistant who emigrated with his eighteen- 
year-old wife in the company of his close friend Thomas Shepard. His 
early death deprived the Bay Colony of one of its sturdiest leaders. The 
lines praising the new churches established in 1648 at Haverhill (An- 
dover), Malden, and Boston are picturesque and touching in their 
sincerity. 

The text is from the edition of J. Franklin Jameson (New York, 
IQIO), pp. 103, 249, 250. The lines on Harlackenden have been re- 
fashioned to conform to the original stanzaic arrangement. The meter 
throughout is thoroughly correct by Johnson’s standards. ] 


TWO EPITAPHS FROM WONDER-WORKING 
PROVIDENCE 


[RoGER HARLACKENDEN]| 


Harlackenden, 
Among these men 

Of note Christ hath thee seated: 
In warlike way 
Christ thee aray 

With zeal, and love well heated. 
As generall 
Belov’d of all, 

Christ Souldiers honour thee: 
In thy young yeares, 
Courage appeares, 

And kinde benignity. 

Short are thy days 
Spent in his praise, 


Poetry Rene: 631 


Whose Church work thou must aid, 
His work shall bide, 
Silver tride, 

But thine by death is staid. 


[To THE NEw CHuRCHES] 


HOU Sister young, Christ is to thee a wall 
Of flaming fire, to hurt thee none may come, 
In slipp’ry paths and dark wayes shall they fall, 
His Angels might shall chase their countless sum. 
Thy Shepheard with full cups and table spread, 
- Before thy foes in Wilderness thee feeds, 
Increasing thy young lambs in bosom bred, 
Of Churches by his wonder-working deeds: 

To countless number must Christ’s Churches reach, 
The day’s at hand, both Jew and Gentile shall 
Come crowding in his Churches, Christ to preach, 
And last for aye, none can cause them to fall. 


SAMUEL BRADSTREET ann DANIEL RUSSELL 


[An Almanack for The Year of Our Lord 1657 was issued in Cambridge 
by Samuel Bradstreet (1633?—1682), eldest son of Governor Simon and 
Anne Bradstreet, a graduate of Harvard in 1653, and a Fellow of the 
college. He appropriated the second page of the Almanac for a six- 
stanza account of Apollo’s wooing of the earth-goddess Tellus. Brad- 
street later spent four years abroad, and upon his return in 1661 
practiced medicine in Boston. In 1670 he removed to Jamaica in 
the West Indies, where he died. See Sibley, Biographical Sketches, I, 
360+361. | 

To Daniel Russell (1642-1679), son of the Hon. Richard Russell of 
Charlestown, was given the opportunity of preparing An Almanack of 
Coelestiall Motions for the year of the Christian Aera, 1671. At the foot 
of each page he placed an eight-line eclogue on the Tellurian theme 
appropriate to the calendar month. Florid in style, the verses never- 
theless are in the Vergilian tradition, and it was the first almanac 
poetry after 1664 to draw upon the classics. Russell was elected a 
Fellow of the college in 1675. Two years later he was called to the 
Charlestown church, but he died before his installation. See Sibley, 
tbid., I1, 284-287.] 


632 


The Puritans 


TWO ALMANAC POEMS 
An ALMANACK FOR THE YEAR OF Our LorDb, 1657 
Aspice venturo latentur ut omnia Seclo.! 


T was, when scarce had rang the morning bells 
if That call the dead to rise from silent tombes, 
Whilst yet they were lockt up in darker Cells, 

Ne had the light posses’d their shady roomes, 

That slumbring Tellus * in a dream did see 

Apollo 3 come to cure her Lethargee. 


Strait shee awoke, and lifting up her eyes 

To top of tall Mount-Athers + burning brow; 

From flaming Globes, the ‘Titans Herauld spies 

Herward approach; Then ’fore her shrine to bow; 
Who bids her in great Phebus name to cheer, 
For he was coming, and would soon be heer. 


Now rapt with joy, she takes her mantle soft, 
On colder Couch ne longer will shee lie; 
But decks her self by christall glass aloft 
That hangs above her spangled Canopie, 
With pearly drops that fall from Limpid stilles 
She dights her too, and then with pleasance smiles. 


Whilst fleet-fire-foming-steeds from farre appear 
In speedy race the lofty hills to stride: 
They Scout the smoaking Plaines, and then draw near 
With burning Carre, that none but he can guide 
Who baulks their course with curb & gars > them bound 
Whilst he steps down to Sublunary-round: 


To greet his ‘Tellus then he hies apace, 
Whom sprusely deckt he findes 7th verdant gown. 
He whilom sent. Each other doth embrace 
In loving armes, and then they sitten down 
Whilst high-born states, and low Tellurean bands 
Rejoyce to see sage Hymen joyn their hands. 


Eftsoones Apollo gives a Girlond rare 

With flowers deckt (for Tellus front alone) 

To her: and sayes in mind of me this weare 

And Babyes deft will thence arise anon. 
She dons it strait: And buds that erst were green 
Now sucklings at her milkey papps they been. 


Samuel Bradstreet 


Poetry 


633 


An ALMANACK OF COELESTIALL Motions FoR THE YEAR 


OF THE CHRISTIAN AERA, 1671. 


By D. R. Philomathemat. 


March:°® 


April: 


June: 


The Starry Monarch now to’s full careere, 

Comes marching up to our North Hemisphere, 
And by his burning Beams, our Frigid Zone 

Doth Metamorphize to a temperate one; 
Re-animating with Celestial Fire, 

Those liveless Natures Hyem’s’ caus’d t’expire: 

And causing Tellus t’doff her Winter Yest, 

For joy of th’Spring; her new-come, welcome guest. 


The Airy Choristers, they now begin 

To warble forth their Native Musick in 

The new-leaf’d Boughs; and in each pleasant Field, 

By Natures Art their curious Nests do build. 

Now big with hopes, the toyling Country Swain 

Buries in th’Earth his multiplying Grain, 

On which the Heavens do fertile Showers distill, 
Which th’Earth with fruits, the Swain with joy doth fill. 


Dame Tellus cloathed in a grass-green Coat, 

By Flora’s curious Needle-work well wrought, 
*Gins to appear; for now the Meads abound 

With fragrant Roses, and with Lillies Crown’d. 
The Proverb’s verified, that April Showers 

On Maia’s Fields do rain down glittering Flowers; 
And now the croaking Crew, late All a-Mort, 

By their Night-chantings, their new life report. 


The smiling Fields, attired in their Suits 

Of Taste-delighting, and Eye-pleasing Fruits; 
Their Strawb’ry Mantles now begin to wear, 

And many Orchards Cherry-cheekt appear. 

Now Sol in’s Crabbed Throne doth take his place, 
Where he performs his Longest daily Race: 

Soon after which, the dayes length gins to fade, 
And Phoebus, Cancer-like turns Retrograde.® 


634 
July: 


The Puritans 


Now Ceres Offspring’s numerous every where, 

And mighty Armies of Tall Blades appear 

In many Fields, all Rank’d and Fil’d they stand 
Ready for Battel: With whom hand to hand 

Fierce Husbandmen with crooked Cutlash meet, 

And being Victors lay them at their feet. 

This don’t suffice; together th’Blades are bound, 
Transported home, and soundly thresh’d on th’ground. 


August: 


Now Sol and Mercury near th’ Virgin ° meet, 
Where in Conjunction they each other greet, 
The best of Aspects; which doth signify, 
Advancement to the Sons of Mercury. 

And now the verdant Meads begin to feel 

The sharp encounter of the Mowers Steel: 

The Noble Vines with Grapes, the Grapes begin 
To swell with Bacchus, which is Barell’d in. 


September: 


The Indian Stalks, now richly fraught with store 
Of golden-colour’d Ears, seem to implore 

By humble bowing of their lofty Head, 

From this their load to be delivered. 

Pomona’s Daughters now at age, and dight 
With pleasing Beauty, Lovers do invite 

In multitudes: it’s well if they escape 

From each of these, without a cruel Rape. 


October: 


Now the Aeolian Lords and Commons meet | 
In Parliament, where it is Voted fit, 

Yea and Resolv’d upon, what-ere it cost, 
They’ll King it over all, and rule the Rost. 
Which to effect, it is Agreed by all, 

That blustring Boreas shall be Generall 

Of their great Forces; and then to’t they go, 
And Tellus Kingdom first they’ll overthrow. 


November: 


Where thundring Boreas, with his Troops, doth shake 
The trembling Woods, and makes the Trees to quake: | 
The Leaves for very fear the Trees have left, 

Which of their July garb, now’re quite bereft: 


fn 


Poetry geek ST 


The Fruits, those pleasant Fruits, the painted Flowers, 
The Flow’ry Meads, gay Fields, and shady Bowers, 
Are now destroy’d; and th’Earths depriv’d of all 

Her Summer glory by this Wasting FALL. 


December: 
Exit Autumnus: Winter now draws neare, 
Armed with Frost i’th’Van, with Snow 7’th’Rere; 
Whose freezing Forces cause men to retire, 
For help to th’Fortress of a well-made Fire. 
Phoebus himself, as if with pannick fear 
Hereat affrighted, now in’s full Careere 
Doth poste away, and speeds him from our sight 
In greatest haste, bidding the World good-night. 


January: 
The Northern Captains Siege still fiercely lasts, 
And still the Roaring Canons of his Blasts 
Are fired off; which brings both Land and Sea 
His Chained Captives quickly for to be: 
And lest they should rebell, if load they lack, 
Mountains of Snow are heap’d on Tellus back; 
The lofty swelling Waves, stout Neptunes pride, 
Are made a packhorse on which men may ride. 


February: . 
And now the Worlds bright Torch, whose radiant Light 
Dispels the gloomy Mists of black-fac’d Night: 

The Twelve Herculean Labours of his Sphere, 
Compleated hath, and Periodiz’d the Year, 

But not his Motion: Natures Law commands 

That fiery Phoebus Charriot never stands, 
Without a Miracle; but that it be, 

Still termed Certus: semper Mobile.'° 


Daniel Russell 


BENJAMIN TOMPSON, 1642-1714 


[Benjamin Tompson, first native-born colonial poet,was the youngest 
son of the Reverend Mr. William Tompson of Braintree, Massa- 
chusetts. After graduation from college in 1662, he taught school and 
studied medicine; in 1670 he was chosen assistant to Ezekiel Cheever, 
headmaster of the ‘‘Free Schoole”’ in Boston, (known since 1690 as the 
Boston Latin School), but he left shortly to teach and practice medicine 


636 The Puritans 


in Charlestown. In 1674 he removed to Braintree, and in 1700 he took 
up residence in Roxbury, where his tombstone records him as “Learned 
Schoolmaster & Physician & ye Renouned Poet of N: Engl:.” 

His most ambitious poetic flight, a narrative of King Philip’s War, 
appeared in Boston and London in 1676: New Englands Crisis. Or a 
Brief Narrative, Of New-Englands Lamentable ‘Estate at present, compar’d 
with the former (but few) years of Prosperity . .. Poetically Described. By 
a Well wisher to his Countrey. Much of the contents he repeated in New- 
Englands Tears for her Present Miseries, issued in the same year, written 
probably as an afterthought. 

The best edition of his works is that of Howard J. Hall, Benjamin 
Tompson ... His Poems Collected with an Introduction (Boston, 1924). 
Kenneth B. Murdock, Handkerchiefs from Paul (Cambridge, 1927), offers 
minor corrections and two additions. See also Tyler, A History of 
American Literature, I1, 21-23; Sibley, Biographical Sketches, 11, 103-111; 
and Dictionary of American Biography. The text is from the 1676 Boston 
edition. | 


NEW ENGLANDS CRISIS 


MARLBURYES FATE ! 


HEN Londons fatal bills * were blown abroad 
And few but Specters travel’d on the road, 
Not towns but men in the black bill enrol’d 
Were in Gazetis by Typographers sold: 
But our Gazetis without Errataes must 
Report the plague of towns reduct to dust: 
And feavers formerly to tenants sent 
Arrest the timbers of the tenement. 
Ere the late ruins of old Groton’s cold, 
Of Marlbury’s peracute disease we’re told. 
The feet of such who neighbouring dwellings urnd 
Unto her ashes, not her doors return’d. 
And what remaind of tears as yet unspent 
Are to its final gasps a tribute lent. | 
If painter overtrack my pen let him 
An olive colour mix these elves to trim; 
Of such an hue let many thousand thieves 
Be drawn like Scare-crows clad with oaken leaves, 
Exhausted of their verdant life and blown 
From place to place without an home to own. 
Draw Devils like themselves, upon their cheeks 
The banks for grease and mud, a place for leeks. 


Poetry 


Whose locks Medusaes snakes, do ropes resemble, 
And ghostly looks would make Achilles tremble. 
Limm them besmear’d with Christian Bloud & oild 
With fat out of white humane bodyes boil’d, 
Draw them with clubs like maules & full of stains, 
Like Vulcans anvilling New-Englands brains. 

Let round be gloomy forrests with crag’d rocks 
Where like to castles they may hide their flocks, 
Till oppertunity their cautious friend 

Shall jogge them fiery worship to attend. 

Shew them like serpents in an avious path 
Seeking to sow the fire-brands of their wrath. 
Most like Aineas in his cloak of mist, 

Who undiscover’d move where ere they list 

Cupid they tell us hath too sorts of darts. 

One sharp and one obtuse, one causing wounds, 
One piercing deep the other dull rebounds, 

But we feel none but such as drill our hearts. 
From Indian sheaves which to their shoulders cling, 
Upon the word they quickly feel the string. 

Let earth be made a screen to hide our woe 

From Heavens Monarch and his Ladyes too; 

And least our Jealousie think they partake, 

For the red stage with clouds a curtain make. 

Let dogs be gag’d and every quickning sound 

Be charm’d to silence, here and there all round 
The town to suffer, from a thousand holes 

Let crawle these fiends with brands and fired poles, 
Paint here the house & there there the barn on fire, 
With holocausts ascending in a spire. 

Here granaries, yonder the Churches smoak 
Which vengeance on the actors doth invoke. 

Let Morpheus with his leaden keyes have bound 

In feather-beds some, some upon the ground, 
That none may burst his drowsie shackles till 

The bruitish pagans have obtain’d their will, 

And Vulcan files them off then Zeuxis paint 

The phrenzy glances of of the sinking saint. 

Draw there the Pastor for his bible crying, 

The souldier for his sword, The Glutton frying 
With streams of glory-fat,? the thin-jaw’d Miser 
Oh had I given this I had been wiser. 

Let here the Mother seem a statue turn’d 

At the sad object of her bowels burn’d. 

Let the unstable weakling in belief 


The Puritans 


Be mounting Ashurs + horses for relief. 

Let the half Convert seem suspended twixt 

The dens of darkness, and the Plantes fixt, 
Ready to quit his hold, and yet hold fast 

By the great Ailas, of the Heavens vast. 

Paint Papists mutterring ore their apish beads 
Whome the blind follow while the blind man leads. 
Let Ataxy be mounted on a throne 

Imposing her Commands on every one, 

A many-headed monster without eyes 

To see the wayes which wont to make men wise. 
Give her a thousands tongues with wings and hands 
To be ubiquitary in Commands, 

But let the concave of her skull appear 

Clean washt and empty quite of all but fear, 
One she bids flee, another stay, a third 

She bids betake him to his rusty sword, 

This to his treasure, th’other to his knees, 

Some counsels she to fry and some to freeze, 
These to the garison, those to the road, 

Some to run empty, some to take their load: 
Thus while confusion most mens hearts divide 
Fire doth their small exchecquer soon decide. 
Thus all things seeming ope or secret foes, 

An Infant may grow old before a close, 

But yet my hopes abide in perfect strength. 


The Town called Providence 
Its Fate. 


Why muse wee thus to see the wheeles run cross 
Since Providence it self sustaines a loss: 

And yet should Providence forget to watch 

I fear the enemy would all dispatch; 

Celestial lights would soon forget their line, 
The wandering planets would forget to shine, 
The stars run all out of their common spheres, 
And quickly fall together by the eares: 
Kingdoms would jostles out their Kings and set 
The poor Mechanick up whome next they met, 
Or rather would whole kingdoms with the world 
Into a Chaos their first egge be hurl’d. 

Ther’s none this Providence of the Most High 
Who can survive and write its Elegie: 

But of a solitary town I write, 

A place of darkness yet receiving light 


een 


Poetry 


From pagan hands, a miscellanious nest 

Of errors Hectors, where they sought a rest. 
Out of the reach of Lawes but not of God, 
Since they have felt the smart of common rod. 
Twas much I thought they did escape so long, 
Who Gospel truth so manifestly wronge: 

For one Lots sake perhaps, or else I think 
Justice did at greatest offenders wink 

But now the shott is paid, I hope the dross 
Will be cashiered in this common loss. 

Houses with substance feel uplifting wings, 
The earth remains, the last of humane things: 
But know the dismal day draws neer wherein 
The fire shall earth it self dissolve and sin. 


Seaconk Plain Engagement. 


On our Pharsalian Plaines, comprizing space 

For Caesars host brave Pompey to outface, 

An handfull of our men are walled round 

With Indian swarmes; anon their pieces sound 

A Madrigal like heav’ns artilery 

Lightning and thunderbolts their bullets fly. 

Her’s hosts to handfulls, of a fevv they leave 

Fewer to tell how many they bereave. 

Fool-hardy fortitude it had been sure 

Fierce storms of shot and arrows to endure 

Without all hopes of some requital to 

So numerous and pestilent a foe. 

Some musing a retreat and thence to run, 

Have in an instant all their business done, 

They sink and all their sorrows ponderous weight 

Down at their feet they cast and tumble straight. 

Such who outliv’d the fate of others fly 

Into the Irish bogs of misery. 

Such who might dye like men like beasts do range 

Uncertain whither for a better change, 

These Natives hunt and chase with currish mind, 

And plague with crueltyes such as they find. 
When shall this shower of Bloud be over? When? 
Quickly we pray oh Lord! say thou Amen. 


Seaconk or Rehoboths Fate. 


I once conjectur’d that those tygers hard 
To reverend Newmans ° bones would have regard 
But were all S4mvrs they met twere all one case, 


b) 


639 


640 The Puritans 


They have no rev’rence to an Angels face: 

But where they fix their griping lions paws 
They rend without remorse or heed to laws. 
Rehoboth here in common english, Rest 

They ransack, Newmans Relicts to molest. 

Here all the town is made a publick stage 
Whereon these Nimrods act their monstrous rage. 
All crueltyes which paper stain’d before 

Are acted to the life here ore and ore. 


Chelmsfords Fate. 


Ere famous Winthrops bones are laid to rest 

The pagans Chelmsford with sad flames arrest, 
Making an artificial day of night 

By that plantations formidable light. 

Here’s midnight shrieks and Soul-amazing moanes, 
Enough to melt the very marble stones: 
Fire-brands and bullets, darts and deaths and wounds 
Confusive outcryes every where resounds: 

The natives shooting with the mixed cryes, 

With all the crueltyes the foes devise 

Might fill a volume, but I leave a space 

For mercyes still successive in there place 

Not doubting but the foes have done their worst, 
And shall by heaven suddenly be curst. 


Let this dear Lord the sad conclusion be 

Of poor New-Englands dismal tragedy. 
Let not the glory of thy former work 
Blasphemed be by pagan Few or Turk: 

But in its funeral ashes write thy Name 

So fair all Nations may expound the same: — 
Out of her ashes let a Phenix rise 

That may outshine the first and be more wise. 


B. Tompson. 


URIAN OAKES 


[Most of the funeral verses and elegies which Puritan poets wrote 
so facilely are better forgotten, but Urian Oakes’s An Elegy upon the 
Death of the Reverend Mr. Thomas Shepard (Cambridge, 1677), deserves 
to survive on its own merits. Thomas Shepard (1635-1677) of Charles- 
town was a son of the famous Cambridge pastor of the same name. 


Poetry | 641 


He prepared the Almanac for 1656, and his election sermon for 1672, 
Eye-Salve, Or A Watch-Word From our Lord Jesus Christ unto his Churches, 
enunciated important views on toleration. For an account of Oakes, see 
p. 350. The text is from the original in the library of the Massachusetts 
Historical Society. | 


AN ELEGY UPON THE DEATH OF THE REVEREND 
MR. THOMAS SHEPARD 


(1) 
H! THAT I were a Poet now in grain! 
How would I invocate the Muses all 
To deign their presence, lend their flowing Vein, 
And help to grace dear Shepard’s Funeral! 
How would I paint our griefs, and succours borrow 
From Art and Fancy, to limn out our sorrow! 


(2) 
Now could I wish (if wishing would obtain) 
The sprightli’est Efforts of Poetick Rage, 
To vent my Griefs, make others feel my pain, 
For this loss of the Glory of our Age. 
Here is a subject for the loftiest Verse 
That ever waited on the bravest Hearse. 


[3] 


And could my Pen ingeniously distill 
The purest Spirits of a sparkling wit 
In rare conceits, the quintessence of skill 
In Elegiack Strains; none like to it: 
I should think all too little to condole 
The fatal loss (to us) of such a Soul. 


[4] 


Could I take highest Flights of Fancy, soar 

Aloft; If Wits Monopoly were mine: 

All would be much too low, too light, too poor, 

To pay due tribute to this great Divine. 
Ah! Wit avails not, when th’Heart’s like to break, 
Great griefs are Tongue-ti’ed, when the lesser speak. 


The Puritans 
[5] 


Away loose rein’d Careers of Poetry, 

The celebrated Sisters may be gone; 

We need no Mourning Womens Elegy, 

No force’d, affected, artificial ‘Tone. 
Great and good Shepard’s Dead! Ah! this alone 
Will set our eyes abroach, dissolve a stone. 


[6] 
Poetick Raptures are of no esteem, 
Daring Hyperboles have here no place, 
Luxuriant Wits on such a copious Theme, 
Would shame themselves, and blush to shew their face 
Here’s worth enough to overmatch the skill 
Of the most stately Poet Laureat’s Quill. 


[7] 


Exube’rant Fancies useless here I deem, 

Transcendent vertue scorns feign’d Elogies: 

He that gives Shepard half his due, may seem, 

If Strangers hear it, to Hyperbolize. 

‘ Let him that can, tell what his vertues were, 
And say, this Star mov’d in. no common Sphere. 


[8] 
Here need no Spices, Odours, curious Arts, 
No skill of Egypt, to embalm the Name 
Of such a Worthy: let men speak their hearts, 
They’l say, He merits an Immortal Fame. 
When Shepard is forgot, all must conclude, 
This is prodigious ingratitude. 


[9] 
But live he shall in many a gratefull Breast, 
VVhere he hath rear’d himself a Monument, 
A Monument more stately than the best, 
On which Immensest Treasures have been spent. 
Could you but into th’Hearts of thousands peep, 
There would you read his Name engraven deep. 


[10] 
Oh! that my head were Waters, and mine Eyes 
A flowing Spring of Tears, still issuing forth 


| Poetry | 


In streams of bitterness, to solemnize 

The Obits of this Man of matchless worth! 
Next to the Tears our sins do need and crave, 
I would bestow my Tears on Shepards Grave. 


(11) 
Not that he needs our Tears: for he hath dropt 
His measure full; not one Tear more shall fall 
Into God’s Bottle from his eyes; Death stopt 
That water-course, his sorrows ending all. 


He Fears, he Cares, he Sighs, he Weeps no more: 
Hee’s past all storms, Arriv’d at th’wished Shoar. 


[12] 
Dear Shepard could we reach so high a strain 
Of pure Seraphick love, as to devest 
Our selves, and love, of self-respects, thy gain 
Would joy us, though it cross our interest. 
Then would we silence all compaints with this, 
Our Dearest Friend is doubtless gone to Bliss. 


(13) 
Ah! but the Lesson’s hard, thus to deny 
Our own dear selves, to part with such a Loan 
Of Heaven (in time of such necessity) 
And love thy comforts better than our own. | 
Then let us moan our loss, adjourn our glee, 
Till-we come thither to rejoice with thee. 


[14] 
As when some formidable Comets blaze, 
As when Portentous Prodigies appear, 
Poor Mortals with amazement stand and gaze, 
With hearts affrighted, and with trembling fear: 
So are we all amazed at this blow, 
Sadly portending some approaching woe. 


[15] 
We shall not summon bold Astrologers, 
To tell us what the Stars say in the case, 
(Those Cousin-Germans to black Conjurers) 
We have a sacred Oracle that says, 
When th’Righteous perish, men of mercy go, 
It is a sure presage of coming wo. 


644 


The Puritans 
[16] 


He was (ah woful word! to say he was) 

Our wrestling Israel, second unto none, 

The man that stood i’th’gap, to keep the pass, 

To stop the Troops of Judgments rushing on. 
This Man the honour had to hold the hand 
Of an incensed God against our Land. 


[17] 
When such a Pillar’s faln (Oh such an one!) 
When such a glorious, shining Light’s put out, 
When Chariot and Horsemen thus are gone; 
Well may we fear some Downfal, Darkness, Rout. 
When such a Bank’s broke down, there’s sad occasion 
To wail, and dread some grievous Inundation. 


[18] 
What! must we with our God, and Glory part? 
Lord! Is thy Treaty with New-England come 
Thus to an end? And is War in thy Heart? 
That this Ambassadour is called home. 
So Earthly Gods (Kings) when they War intend, 
Call home their Ministers, and Treaties end. 


[19] 
Oh for the Raptures, Transports, Inspirations 
Of Israel’s Singers when his Jon’athan’s Fall 
So tun’d his mourning Harp! what Lamentations 
Then would I make for Shepards Funerall 


How truly can I say, as well as He? 
My Dearest Brother Pam distress’d for thee. 


[20] 
How Lovely, Worthy, Peerless, in my view? 
How Precious, Pleasant hast thou been to me? 
How Learned, Prudent, Pious, Grave, and True? 
And what a Faithful Friend? who like to thee? 
Mine Eye’s desire is vanish’d: who can tell 
Where lives my dearest Shepard’s Parallel? 


[21] 
Tis strange to think: but we may well believe, 
That not a few of different Perswasions 


Poetry 


From this great Worthy, do now truly grieve 

I’th’Mourning croud, and joyn their Lamentations. 
Such Powers Magnetick had He to draw to Him 
The very Hearts, and Souls, of all that knew Him! 


[22] 
Art, Nature, Grace, in Him were all combin’d 
To shew the World a matchless Paragon: 
In whom of Radiant Virtues no less shin’d, 
Than a whole Constellation: but hee’s gone! 
Hee’s gone alas! Down in the Dust must ly 
As much of this rare Person as could dy. 


[23] 
If to have solid Judgement, Pregnant Parts, 
A piercing Wit, and comprehensive Brain; 
If to have gone the Round of all the Arts, 
Immunity from Deaths Arrest would gain, 
Shepard would have been Death-proof, and secure 
From that All conquering Hand, I’m very sure. 


[24] 
If Holy Life, and Deeds of Charity, 
If Grace illustrious, and Virtue tri’ed, 
If modest Carriage, rare Humility, 


Could have brib’d Death, good Shepard had not di’ed. 


Oh! but inexorable Death attacks 
The best Men, and promiscu’ous havock makes. 


[25] 
Come tell me, Criticks, have you ever known 
Such Zeal, so temper’d well with moderation? 
Such Prudence, and such Inno’cence met in one? 
Such Parts, so little Pride and Ostentation? 
Let Momus carp, and Envy do her worst, 
And swell with Spleen and Rancour till she burst. 


[26] 
To be descended well, doth that commend? 
Can Sons their Fathers Glory call their own? 
Our Shepard justly might to this pretend, 
(His Blessed Father was of high Renown, 
Both Englands speak him great, admire his Name) 
But his own pers’onal worth’s a better claim. 


645 


646 


The Puritans 
[27] 


Great was the Father, once a glorious Light 
Among us, Famous to an high Degree: 

Great was this Son: indeed (to do him right) 
As Great and Good (to say no more) as He. 


A double portion of his Fathers Spirit 
Did this (his Eldest) Son, through Grace, inherit. 


[28] 


His Look commanded Reverence and Awe, 
Though Mild and Amiable, not Austere: 
Well Humour’d was He (as I ever saw) 
And rul’d by Love and Wisdome, more than Fear. 
The Muses, and the Graces too, conspir’d 
To set forth this Rare Piece, to be admir’d. 


[29] 
He govern’d well the Tongue (that busie thing, 
Unruly, Lawless and Pragmatical) 
Gravely Reserv’d, in Speech not lavishing, 
Neither too sparing, nor too liberal. 
His Words were few, well season’d, wisely weigh’d, 
And in his Tongue the Law of kindness sway’d. 


[30] 
Learned he was beyond the common Size, 
Befriended much by Nature in his Wit, 
And Temper, (Sweet, Sedate, Ingenious, Wise) 
And (which crown’d all) he was Heav’ens Favourite: 
On whom the God of all Grace did command, 
And show’r down Blessings with a lib’eral hand. 


[31] 
Wise He, not wily, was; Grave, not Morose; 
Not stiffe, but steady; Seri’ous, but not Sowre; 
Concern’d for all, as if he had no Foes; 
(Strange if he had!) and would not wast an Hour. 
Thoughtful and Active for the common good: 
And yet his own place wisely understood. 


[32] 


‘Nothing could make him stray from Duty; Death 


Was not so frightful to him, as Omission 


Poetry 


Of Ministerial work; he fear’d no breath 

Infecti’ous, i’th’discharge of his Commission. 
Rather than run from’s work, he chose to dy, 
Boldly to run on Death, than duty fly. 


[33] 


(Cruel Disease! that didst (like High-way-men) 

Assault the honest Trav’eller in his way, 

And rob dear Shepard of his life (Ah!) then, 

When he was on the Road, where Duty lay. 
Forbear, bold Pen! ’twas God that took him thus, 
To give him great Reward, and punish us.) 


[34] 


Zealous in God’s cause, but meek in his own; 
Modest of Nature, bold as any Lion, 
Where Consc’ience was concern’d: and there were none 
More constant Mourners for afflicted Sion: 
So gene’ral was his care for th’Churches all, 
.. His Spirit seemed Apostolical. 


[35] 


Large was his Heart, to spend without regret, 
Rejoycing to do good: not like those Moles 
That root ?th’Earth, or roam abroad, to get 
All for themselves (those sorry, narrow Souls!) 
But He, like th’Sun (i’th’Center, as some say) 
Diffus’d his Rayes of Goodness every way. 


[36] 
He breath’d Love, and pursu’d Peace in his day, 
As if his Soul were made of Harmony: 
Scarce ever more of Goodness crouded lay 
In such a piece of frail Mortality. 
Sure Father Wilsons genuine Son was he, 
New-England’s Paul had such a Timothy. 


[37] 


No slave to th’ Worlds grand Idols; but he flew 

At Fairer Quarries, without stooping down 

To Sublunary prey: his great Soul knew 

Ambition none, but of the Heave’nly Crown. 
Now he hath won it, and shall wear’t with Honour, 
Adoring Grace, and God in Christ, the Donour. 


647 


648 


The Puritans 


[38] 
A Friend to Truth, a constant Foe to Errour, 
Pow’erful i’th’ Pulpit, and sweet in converse, 

To weak ones gentle, to th’Profane a Terrour. 
Who can his vertues, and good works rehearse? 
The Scripture-Bishops-Character read o’er, 

Say this was Shepards: what need I say more? 


[39] 


I say no more: let them that can declare 
His rich and rare endowments, paint this Sun, 
With all its dazling Rayes: But I despair, 
Hopeless by any hand to see it done. 
They that can Shepards goodness well display, 
Must be as good as he: But who are they? 


[40] 
See where our Sister Charlstown sits and Moans! 
Poor Widowed Charlstown! all in Dust, in Tears! 
Mark how she wrings her hands! hear how she groans! 
See how she weeps! what sorrow like to hers! 
Charlstown, that might for joy compare of late 
With all about her, now looks desolate. 


[41] 
As you have seen some Pale, Wan, Ghastly look, 
When grisly Death, that will not be said nay, 
Hath seiz’d all for it self, Possession took, 
And turn’d the Soul out of its house of Clay: 
So Visag’d is poor Charlstown at this day; 
Shepard, her very Soul, is torn away. 


[42] 
Cambridge groans under this so heavy cross, 
And Sympathizes with her Sister dear; 
Renews her Griefs afresh for her old loss 
Of her own Shepard, and drops many a Tear. 
Cambridge and Charlstown now joint Mourners are, 
And this tremendous loss between them share. 


[43] 


Must Learnings Friend (Ah! worth us all) go thus? 
That Great Support to Harvards Nursery! 


Poetry 


Our Fellow (that no Fellow had with us) 

Is gone to Heave’ns great University. 
Our’s now indeed’s a lifeless Corporation, 
The Soul is fled, that gave it Anzmation! 


[44] 


Poor Harvard’s Sons are in their Mourning Dress: 
Their sure Friend’s gone! their Hearts have put on Mourning; 
Within their Walls are Sighs, Tears, Pensiveness; 
Their new Foundations dread an overturning. 
Harvard! where’s such a fast Friend left to thee! 
Unless thy great Friend, LEVERET, it be.! 


[45] 
* We must not with our greatest Soveraign strive, 
Who dare find fault with him that is most High? 
That hath an absolute Prerogative, 
And doth his pleasure: none may ask him, why? 
We’re Clay-lumps, Dust-heaps, nothings in his sight: 
The Judge of all the Earth doth always right. 


[46] 
Ah! could not Prayers and Tears prevail with God! 
Was there no warding off that dreadful Blow! 
And was there no averting of that Rod! 
Must Shepard dy! and that good Angel go! 
Alas! Our heinous sins (more than our haits) 
It seems, were louder, and out-crie’d our Prayers. 


[47] 


See what our sins have done! what Ruines wrought 
And how they have pluck’d out our very eyes! 
Our sins have slain our Shepard! we have bought, 
And dearly paid for, our Enormities. 

Ah Cursed sins! that strike at God, and kill 

His Servants, and the Blood of Prophets spill. 


[48] 
As you would loath the Sword that’s warm and red, 
As you would hate the hands that are embru’d 
I’th’Hearts-blood of your dearest Friends: so dread, 
And hate your sins; Oh! let them be pursu’d: 
Revenges take on bloody sins: for there’s 
No Refuge-City for these Murtherers. 


650 


The Puritans 


[49] 


In vain we build the Prophets Sepulchers, 
In vain bedew their ‘Tombs with Tears, when Dead; 
In vain bewail the Deaths of Ministers, 
Whilst Prophet-killing sins are harboured. 
Those that these Murth’erous Traitors favour, hide; 
Are with the blood of Prophets deeply di’ed. 


[5°] 
New-England! know thy Heart-plague: feel this blow; 
A blow that sorely wounds both Head and Heart, 
A blow that reaches All, both high and low, 
A blow that may be felt in every part. 
Mourn that this Great Man’s faln in Israel: 
Lest it be said, with him New-England fell! 


[51] 
Farewel, Dear Shepard! ‘Thou art gone before, 
Made free of Heaven, where thou shalt sing loud Hymns 
Of High triumphant Praises evermore, 
In the sweet Quire of Saints and Seraphims. 
Lord! look on us here, clogg’d with sin and clay, 
And we, through Grace, shall be as happy as they. 


[521 
My Dearest, Inmost, Bosome-Friend, is Gone! 
Gone is my sweet Companion, Soul’s delight! 
Now in an Huddling Croud I’m all alone, 
And almost could bid all the World Goodnight: 
Blest be my Rock! God lives: Oh let him be, 
As He is, so All in All to me. 


The Bereaved, Sorrowful 
Urian Oakes. 


EDWARD TAYLOR (16452-1729) 


[The poetry of Edward Taylor consists largely of devotional medita- 
tions, modeled upon the verses of such “sacred poets” as George 
Herbert, Richard Crashaw, and Francis Quarles. Writing in the man- 
ner of the “‘conceitists,”” Taylor left behind him a considerable number 
of rhapsodic songs, quite unlike any other Colonial poetry, and dis- 
tinguished both for figurative brilliance and homely, native coloring. 


Poetry : | | 651 


Taylor was born in or near Coventry, England, and emigrated to 
Boston in 1668. Graduating from Harvard in 1671, he was settled as 
pastor and physician in the western Massachusetts frontier town of 
Westfield, where he remained till his death. His writings and his small 
library came finally into the possession of his grandson Ezra Stiles 
(1727-1795), the distinguished Revolutionary president of Yale 
College. Taylor requested that his heirs should not print anything that 
he had written, and the four-hundred-page quarto manuscript 
‘Poetical Works,” in possession of the Yale University Library, re- 
mained unpublished until 1937, when several -of his verses were 
edited. Among them are selections from Gods Determinations touching his 
Elect: and The Elects Combat in their Conversion, and Coming vp to God in 
Christ: together with the Comfortable Effects thereof, and from the Sacramental 
Meditations. See Thomas H. Johnson, “Edward Taylor: A Puritan 
‘Sacred Poet,’ ” New England Quarterly, X (1937), 290-322; see also for 
biographical data, Sibley, Biographical Sketches, 11, 397-412. All the 
selections here given are to be found in the New England Quarterly 
article cited above. ] 


POETICAL WORKS 


HUSWIFERY 


AKE me, O Lord, thy Spinning Wheele compleat. 
| \ Thy Holy Worde my Distaff make for mee. 
Make mine Affections thy Swift Flyers neate 
And make my Soule thy holy Spoole to bee 
My Conversation make to be thy Reele 
And reele the yarn thereon Spun of thy Wheele. 


Y 


Make me thy Loome then, knit therein this Twine: 
And make thy Holy Spirit, Lord, winde quills: 
Then weave the Web thyselfe. The yarn is fine. 
Thine Ordinances make my Fulling Mills. 
Then dy the Same in Heavenly Colours Choice, 
All pinkt with Varnisht Flowers of Paradise. 


Then cloath therewith mine Vnderstanding, Will, 
Affections, Judgment, Conscience, Memory 
My Words, and Actions, that their shine may fill 
My wayes with glory and thee glorify. 
‘Then mine apparell shall display before yee 
That I am Cloathd in Holy robes for glory. 


The Puritans 


Tue Ess AND FLOW 


When first thou on me Lord wroughtst thy Sweet Print, 
My heart was made thy tinder box. 
My ’ffections were thy tinder in’t: 
Where fell thy Sparkes by drops. 
Those holy Sparks of Heavenly Fire, that came 
Did ever catch and often out would flame. 


But now my Heart is made thy Censar trim, 
Full of thy golden Altars fire, 
To offer vp Sweet Incense in 
Vnto thyselfe intire: 
I finde my tinder scarce thy Sparks can feel 
That drop out from thy Holy flint and Steel. 


Hence doubts out bud for feare thy fire in mee 
*S a mocking Ignis Fatuus, 
Or lest thine Altars fire out bee, 
It’s hid in ashes thus. 
Yet when the bellows of thy Spirit blow 
Away mine ashes, then thy fire doth glow. 


THE Sout ADMIRING THE GRACE OF THE CHURCH 
ENTERS INTO CHURCH FELLOWSHIP 


How is this City, Lord, of thine bespangled 

~ With Graces Shine? 

With Ordinances alli’de, and inam’led, 
Which are Divine? 

Walld in with Discipline her Gates obtaine 

Just Centinalls with Love Imbellisht plain. 


Hence glorious, and terrible she stands; 
That Converts new 
Seing her Centinalls of all demand 
The Word to shew; 
Stand gazing much between two Passions Crusht: 
Desire, and Feare at once which both wayes thrust. 


Thus are they wrackt. Desire doth forward Screw 
To get them in, 

But Feare doth backward thrust, that lies purdue, 
And Slicks that Pin. 

You cannot give the word, Quoth she, which though 

You stumble on’t its more than yet you know 


Poetry 


But yet Desires Screw Pin doth not Slack: 
It still holds fast. 

But Fears Screw Pin thrusts back or Screw doth Crack 
And breaks at last. 

Hence on they go, and in they enter: where 

Desire Converts to joy: joy Conquours Fear. 


They now encovenant with God: and His: 
They thus indent: 
The Charters Seal’s belonging vnto this 
The Sacrament. 
So God is theirs avoucht, they his in Christ: 
In whom all things they have, with Grace are splic’te 


Thus in the Vsuall Coach of Gods Decree 
They bowle and Swim 
To Glory bright, if no Hypocrisie 
Handed them in. 
For such must shake their handmaid off lest they 
Be Shakt out of this Coach, or dy in th’ way. 


[From Gods Determinations] 


THE GLORY OF, AND GRACE IN 
THE CHURCH SET OUT 


Come now behold 
Within this Knot What Flowers do grow: 
Spanglde like gold: 
Whence Wreaths of all Perfumes do flow. 
Most Curious Colours of all Sorts you shall 
With all Sweet Spirits sent. Yet that’s not all. 


Oh! Look; and finde. 
These Choicest Flowers most richly Sweet 
Are Disciplinde 
With Artificiall Angells meet. 
An heap of Pearls is precious: but they Shall 
When Set by Art Excell: Yet that’s not all. 


Christ’s Spirit showers 
/ Down in his Word, and Sacraments 
Vpon these Flowers 
The Clouds of Grace Divine Contents. 
Such things of Wealthy Blessings on them fall 
As make them sweetly thrive: Yet that’s not all. 


654 The Puritans 


Yet Still behold! 
All flourish not at once. We see 
While Some Vnfold 
Their blushing Leaves, Some buds there bee. 
Here’s Faith, Hope, Charity in flower, which call 
On yonders in the Bud. Yet that’s not all. 


But as they Stand 
Like Beauties reeching ! in perfume 
A Divine Hand 
Doth hand them vp to Glories room: 
Where Each in Sweet’ned Songs all Praises Shall 
Sing all ore Heaven for aye. And that’s but all. 


[From Gods Determinations] 


THE Joy oF CHURCH FELLOWSHIP 
RIGHTLY ATTENDED 


In Heaven soaring vp, I dropt an Eare 
On Earth: and oh! sweet Melody: 
And listening found it was the Saints who were 
Encoacht for Heaven that sang for Joy. 
For in Christs Coach they sweetly sing, 
As they to Glory ride therein. 


Oh! joyous hearts! Enfir’de with holy Flame! 
Is Speech thus tassled with praise? 

Will not your inward fire of Joy contain, 
That it in open flames doth blaze? 
For in Christs Coach Saints sweetly sing, 
As they to Glory ride therein. 


And if a string do slip, by Chance, they soon 
Do screw it vp again: whereby 
They set it in a more melodious ‘Tune 
And a Diviner Harmony. 
For in Christs Coach they sweetly sing 
As they to Glory ride therein. 


In all their Acts, publick, and private, nay 
And secret too, they praise impart. 

But in their Acts Divine and Worship, they 

~ With Hymns do offer vp their Heart. 
Thus in Christs Coach they sweetly sing 
As they to Glory ride therein. 


Poetry 655 


Some few not in; and Some whose Time, and Place 
Block vp this Coaches way do goe 
As Travellers afoot: and so do trace 
The Road that gives them right thereto 
While in this Coach these sweetly sing 
As they to Glory ride therein. 
[From Gods Determinations] 


SACRAMENTAL MEDITATIONS 


MEDITATION ONE 2 


HAT Love is this of thine, that Cannot bee 
In thine infinity, O Lord, Confinde, 
Vnless it in thy Very Person see, 
Infinity, and Finity Conjoyn’d? 
What hath thy Godhead, as not satisfide 
Marri’de our Manhood, making it its Bride? 


Oh, Matchless Love! filling Heaven to the brim! 
O’re running it, all running o’re beside 
This World! Nay Overflowing Hell, wherein 
For thine Elect, there rose a mighty Tide! 
That there our ven, might through thy Person bleed; 
To quench those flames, that else would on vs feed. 


Oh! that my Love might overflow my Heart! 
To fire the Same with Love: for Love I would, 
But oh! my streight’ned Breast! my Lifeless Sparke! 
My Fireless Flame! What Chilly Love, and Cold? 
In measure Small! in Manner Chilly! See. 
Lord blow the Coal: Thy Love Enflame in mee. 


MeEpiraTion E1cur 3 
I kening through Astronomy Divine 
The Worlds bright Battlement, wherein I spy 
A Golden Path my Pensill cannot line 
From that bright Throne vnto my Threshold ly. 
And while my puzzled thoughts about it pore 
I finde the Bread of Life in’t at my doore. 


When that this Bird of Paradise put in 
This Wicker Cage (my corps) to tweedle praise 
Had peckt the Fruite forbid: and so did fling 
Away its Food: and lost its golden dayes; 
It fell into Celestiall Famine sore: 
And never could attain a morsell more. 


656 | The Puritans 


Alas! alas! Poore Bird, what wilt thou doe? 
This Creatures field no food for Souls e’re gave. 
And if thou knock at Angells dores they show 
An Empty Barrell: they no Soul bread have. 
Alas! Poore Bird, the Worlds White Loafe is done. 
And cannot yield thee here the smallest Crumb. 


In this Sad State, Gods Tender Bowells run 
Out Streams of Grace: And he to end all strife 
The Purest Wheate in Heaven, his deare-dear Son 
Grinds, and kneads vp into this Bread of Life. 
Which Bread of Life from Heaven down came and stands 
Disht on thy Table vp by Angells Hands. 


Did God mould vp this Bread in Heaven, and bake, 
Which from his Table came, and to thine goeth? 
Doth he bespeake thee thus, This Soule Bread take 
Come Eate thy fill of this thy Gods White Loafe? 
Its Food too fine for Angells, yet come, take 
And Eate thy fill. Its Heavens Sugar Cake. 


What Grace is this knead in this Loafe? This thing 
Souls are but petty things it to admire. 
Yee Angells, help: This fill would to the brim 
Heav’ns whelm’d-down Chrystall meele Bowle, yea and higher. 
This Bread of Life dropt in thy mouth, doth Cry: 
Eate, Eate me, Soul, and thou shalt never dy. 


MEDITATION THREE + 


Like to the Marigold, I blushing close 
My golden blossoms when the Sun goes down: 
Moist’ning my leaves with Dewy Sighs, half frose 
By the nocturnall Cold, that hoares my Crown. 
Mine Apples ashes ° are in apple Shells 
And dirty too: Strange and bewitching Spells! 


When, Lord, mine Eye doth Spie thy Grace to beame 
Thy Mediatoriall glory in the Shine. 

Out Spouted so from Adams typick Streame 
And Emblemiz’d in Noahs pollisht Shrine 
Thine theirs out shines so far it makes their glory 
In brightest Colours, seem a Smoaky Story. 


Poetry | : 657 


But when mine Eye full of these beams doth cast 
Its rayes vpon my dusty essence thin 
Impregnate with a Sparke Divine defac’de, 
All Candi[e]d o’re with Leprosie of Sin, 
Such Influences on my Spirits light, 
Which them as bitter gall, or Cold ice Smite. 


My brissled Sins hence do so horrid peare, 
None but thyselfe, (and thou deckt vp must bee 
In thy Transcendent glory Sparkling cleare) 
A Mediator vnto God for mee. 
So high they rise, Faith scarce can toss a Sight 
Over their head vpon thyselfe to light. 


Is’t possible such glory, Lord, ere should 
Center its Love on me, Sins Dunghill else? 
My Case vp take? make it its own? Who would 
Wash with his blood my blots out? Crown his Shelfe 
Or Dress his golden Cupboard with such ware? 
This makes my pale facde Hope almost despare. 


Yet let my Titimouses © Quill Suck in 
Thy Graces milk Pails Some small drop: or Cart 
A Bit or Splinter of some Ray, the wing 
Of Grace’s Sun sprindgd out,’ into my heart: 
To build there Wonders Chappell where thy Praise 
Shall be the Psalms sung forth in gracious layes. 


ROGER WOLCOTT, 1679-1767 


[Poetical Meditations, being the Improvement of some Vacant Hours was 
published in New London in 1725 by Roger Wolcott of Windsor, 
Connecticut. Apprenticed to a weaver at twelve, Wolcott, without 
formal schooling, by industry and thrift acquired a competent fortune 
and distinguished himself in public affairs: as Major General he was 
second in command at the capture of Louisburg; successively he be- 
came legislator, county judge, chief-justice of the Supreme Court, and 
governor (1751-1754) of Connecticut. Though his verse is not in- 
trinsically important, in one poem, ‘“‘A Brief Account of the Agency Of 
the Honourable John Winthrop, Esq; in the Court of King Charles 
the Second, Anno Dom. 1662. When he Obtained for the Colony of 
Connecticut His Majesty’s Gracious Charter,’? Wolcott attempted an 
epic in celebration of his native land. See his “Journal at the Siege 


658 | The Puritans 


of Louisburg,” Collections of the Connecticut Historical Society, I (1860), 
131-161; “‘Wolcott Papers, 1750-1754,” 2 vols.; ibid., XV, XVI. Poetical 
Meditations was reprinted in Collections of the Massachusetts Historical — 
Society, first series, IV (1795), 262-298; also by the Club of Odd. 

Volumes (Boston, 1898). The text is from the first edition, pp. 11-35, 
with omissions indicated. | 


POETICAL MEDITATION 


PROVERBS XXXI. 10. 
Who can find a Vertuous Woman, for her Price is far above Rubies. 


ERTUE’S a Babe, first born in Paradice, 
And hath by birth priority of Vice. 

Vertue is all that’s good we brought from thence 
The dear remains of our first Innocence. | 
Vertue still makes the Vertuous to shine, 
Like those that Liv’d in the first week of time. 
Vertue hath force the vile to cleanse again, 
So being like clear shining after Rain. 
A Kind and Constant, Chearful Vertuous Life, 
Becomes each Man, and most Adorns a Wife. 

But such a Vertue, ah, where shall we find, 
That’s Bright, especially in Woman Kind? 
If such an one had been on Earth, no doubt 
Searching King Solomon had found her out. 

But stay my Muse, nor may we thence Conclude, 
There is not One in all their Multitude: 
For tho’ it be too True, that Solomon 
Amongst a Thousand found not such an one; 
It follows not at all but such an one 
Amongst an Hundred Thousand may be shown; 
Which if she may, her Price beyond Compare, 
Excels the Price of Rubies very fair. 


Psatm LXIV. 6. 
The Heart is Deep. 


He that can trace a Ship making her way, 
Amidst the threatening Surges on the Sea; 

Or track a Towering Eagle in the Air, 

Or on a Rock find the Impressions there 

Made by a Serpents Footsteps. Who Surveys 
The Subtile Intreagues that a Young Man lays, 


Poetry 


In his Sly Courtship of an harmless Maid, 
Whereby his Wanton Amours are Convey’d 
Into her Breast; Tis he alone that can 

Find out the Cursed Policies of Man. 


A BRIEF ACCOUNT OF ...WINTHROP?* 


Tue Kinc 1s RESTORED TO THE THRONE 


HESE happy Tidings soon found out their way, 

Unto the English in America; 
Who join with Britain in the Celebration, 
Of their just Princes happy Restauration. 
The Sages of Connecticut do meet, 
To pay their Homage at their Princes Feet; 
To whom they seek to hasten an Address, 
To shew their Duty and their Joys Excess. 
Learned WinTarop then by general Consent, 
Sat at the Helm to sway the Government; 
Who prudently the People doth Advise, 
To ask the King for CHarTER Liberties. 


All like his Counsel well; and all reply, 
Sir, You must undertake our Agency; 
For there is none but You we may expect, 
Can make the thing you Counsel take Effect: 
Your Serving us in this Important Thing, 
And Personating Us before the Kine, 
Will sure Endear a WinrHrop’s Memory 
To Us, and to our Last Posterity. 


His Mind, vast as the Heavenly Spheres above, 
Was all bespangled with the Stars of Love; 
And Zealous Care for their Posterity, 
Of all his Acts the Primum Mobile; 
Led on by these bright Stars kind Influence, 
He hastens to the Palace of his Prince; 
There waiting for an Opportunity, 


E’re long, Great CHARLES was in his Council sat 
With some Choice Nobles of his Cabinet: 
His Royal Mind Intent on his Affairs, 
He thus Unbosoms to his Counsellers; 


659 


660 The Puritans 


What News, My Lords? How go Affairs Abroad? 
What more Remains to do for Englands Good? 
Do distant Parts of our Dominion 
Want farther Help or Favour from the Throne? 


At this arose one of the Lords of Trade, 
And to his Majesty this Answer made, 
An Agent from Connecticut doth wait, 
With an Address before your Palace Gate. 


Let him come in, says CHARLES, and let us Hear, 
What has been done, and what’s a doing there? 


Winthrop brought in before his Princes Feet, 
Prostrates himself with Reverence, the King to Greet; 
And thanks His Majesty for his Access: 

Then for his People offers this Address; 


““GREAT SIR, Since Reconciled Heaven Restores 
You to the Throne of Your High Ancestors, 
See how each Subject Emulating tries, 
To Express our National Felicities: 
The Joy of Your Accession to the Throne, 
Is like the Lustre of the Morning Sun; 
Which from the East Salutes the Western Shores, 
Still trampling under foot Nights horrid Powers: 
So the loud Accents of this boundless Joy, 
Ecchoing in our Ears from Britanny, 
Gave Light & Gladness where-so’ere it came, 
And fill’d our joyful Hearts with equal Flame. 
The sad Remembrance of those days of Wo, 
Which in Your Absence we did undergo, 
‘Transports our present Joys to that Excess, 
As passeth all Expressions to express. 
May Heaven preserve Your Majesty, and Bless 
Your Reign with Honour, & with Length of Days; 
And in Your Line the Regal Power extend, 
Until the Suns last Revolution end. 


“And since we are at mighty Cesar’s Feet, 
O may He Pardon us, while we Entreat, 
Your Royal Favour in the thing we want; 
T’ Incorporate us by Your CHARTER-Grant. 
The Land we’ve Purchas’d, or Subdu’d by Fight, 
And Bought of Fenwick what was Warwick’s Right, 


Poetry | 661 


And all at the Endeavour of our Own, 
Without the least Dis-bursement from the Throne.”’ 


Rise up, Quoth Charles; My Liberal Hand Supplies, 
All needful Help to every One that Cries; 
Nor shall I be Illiberal to You: 
But, Prithee, Winthrop, Please to let me Know, 
By whom it was your Place did first Commence, 
Your Patriarchs that Led your Tribes from Hence? ... 


[After an account of the trials of the early settlers, Winthrop thus 
describes the Connecticut Valley:] 


‘“‘After the Meadows thus have took their Place, 
The Champion Plains draw up to fill the space. 
Fair in their Prospect, Pleasant, Fruitful, Wide, 
Here Tellus may be seen in all his Pride. 

Cloud kissing Pines in stately Man groves stand, 
Firm Oaks fair Branches wide and large extend. 
The Fir, the Box, the Balm-Tree here stand mute, 
So do the Nut-Trees Laden down with Fruit. 

In shady Vales the Fruitful Vine o’re whelms, 
The Weaving Branches of the bending Elms. 


‘Within the Covert of these shady Boughs, 
The Loving Turtle and his Lovely Spouse 
From Bough to Bough in deep Affection move, 
And with Chast Joy reciprocate their Love. 
At the Cool Brooks, the Beavers and the Minks 
Keep House, and here the Hart & Panther Drinks. 
And Partridges here keep in Memory, 
How to their Loss they soared once too high. 


“Within these Spacious Forests, Fresh & Green, 
No Monsters of Burn Africk may be seen. 
No hissing Bassalisk stands to affright. 
Nor Seps, nor Hemorhus with Mortal bite, 
The Lybian Lyon ne’er set Footing here, 
Nor Tygers of Numedia do appear. 
But here the Moose his spreading Antlers sways, 
And bears down Stubborn standels with their sprays, 
These sport themselves within these Woods, & here 
The Fatted Roe-Buck and the Fallow Deer, 
Yield Venison as good as that which won 
The Partriarchial Benediction, 


662 . ia The Puritans 


‘“‘Each Plain is bounded at its utmost Edge 
With a long Chain of Mountains in a ridge, 
Whose Azure tops advance themselves so high 
They seem like Pendants hanging in the Skie. 
Twenty Four Miles, Surveyers do account 
Between the Eastern and the Western Mount; 

In which vast Interspace, Pleasant and Fair, 
Kephirus Whispers a Delightful Air. 

These Mountains stand at Equi-distant space, 
From the fair Flood in such Majestick Grace. 
Their looks alone are able to Inspire 

An Active Brain with a Mercurial Fire. 

The Muses hence their ample Dews Distil, 

More than was Feigned from the [tree] topt Hill. 
And if those Witty Men that have us told 
Strange Tales of Mountains in the Days of Old, 
Had they but seen how these are Elevated, 

We should have found them far more Celebrated, 
In the Fine Works that they have left to us, 
Than high Olimpus or long Caucassus; 

Or Latmos which Diana stops upon, 

There to Salute her dear Endimion.”’ 


MATHER BYLES, 1706/7-1788 


[Were it not that in background, training, and subsequent influence 
the Reverend Mr. Mather Byles of Boston was an orthodox Calvinist, 
he would hardly be considered among the Puritans. He is remembered 
today as a wit, a Tory, and a lover of good society and polite letters. 
But as a grandson of Increase Mather, trained up by his uncle Cotton 
Mather, and as first pastor of the Hollis Street Congregational Church 
from 1732 till the Revolution, he is perhaps the last link with the Puritan 
tradition in letters. The discomforts he suffered because of his Loyalist 
sympathies were mitigated somewhat by the fame he won as writer, 
preacher, and scholar. Much of his poetry was issued in the New England 
Weekly Journal. For the rest, Poems on Several: Occasions (Boston,’ 1744) 
and The Conflagration (1755) contain most of his verses. 

His poems, modeled upon the verses of Pope, Thomson, and Watts, 
reflect current literary fashions. ““An Hymn to Christ” is written in 
the manner of the last named, and is taken from the last page of 
Mr. Byle’s Two Sermons at Dorchester (Boston, 1732). See Tyler, A History 
of American Literature, 11, 55-57, 192-198; and Arthur W. H. Eaton, 
The Famous Mather Byles (Boston, 1914). See also Dictionary of American 


Poetry | | 663 


Biography for a good biographical account and for further biblio- 
graphical material. ] 


AN HYMN TO CHRIST FOR OUR REGENERATION 
AND RESURRECTION. 


Ts: 


O THEE, my Lorp, I lift the Song, 
Awake, my tuneful Pow’rs: 
In constant Praise my grateful ‘Tongue 
Shall fill my foll’wing Hours. 


II. 


Guilty, condemn’d, undone I stood; 
I bid my Gop depart: 

He took my Sins, and paid his Blood, 
And turn’d this wand’ring Heart. 


Ill. 


Death, the grim Tyrant, seiz’d my Fame, 
Vile, loathsome and accurst: 

His Breath renews the vital Flame, 

And Glories change the Dust. 


IV. 


Now, SAviour, shall thy Praise commence; 
My Soul by Thee brought Home, 

And ev’ry Member, ev’ry Sense, 
Recover’d from the Tomb. 


Vv. 
To Thee my Reason I submit, 
My Love, my Mem’ry, Lorp, 
My Eyes to read, my Hands to write, 
My Lips to preach thy Word. 


664 The Puritans 


a rs “id a Geb died be 

aye. 4 Snircd- B72 

Dovez eis Oped a 

Ae ese 
Su SoS o pi fr 46, Dagon do Sig ae 
| Me "pier BOS fies } bee Gt SES B ati 
fie cs i cor 
fel +7 Wy Tinka fs Livin pi 


o- My Sook sae 


¢ 
7 + Oa} 
— of Wo 


Page of Edward Taylor’s Manuscript. (For text, see p. 653.) 


= 
& 
« 


«e5 Chapter VII 


LITERARY THEORY 


e 


HOUGH it is evident that the Puritans as a group never developed 
4 a lively aesthetic sense in their appreciation of music, painting, 
and sculpture, yet they left on record a great number of brief comments 
upon the art of writing, as well as a few. extended essays. In each 
instance the writer is concerned with the question: How can prose or 
verse be made more useful to the preacher, historian, poet, or con- 
troversialist? Usually the remarks are incidental to some broader aim. 
The motive behind Puritan writing was utilitarian: the author might 
chronicle the story of his times, attack unwelcome schools of thought, 
discourse upon man’s duties, narrate the lives of famous men, or hymn 
praises to God, but the end he purposed was never merely an enjoyment 
of belles-lettres or of literature for its own sake. This is not to say that 
he was devoid of literary sensibilities. On the contrary, Michael Wiggles- 
worth’s college declamation praises eloquence because it is an art which 
“gives new luster and bewty, new strength new vigour, new life unto 
trueth”’ (see p. 674). The interest is utilitarian in the finest sense, for 
it does not limit eloquence to the service of one type or class of men; 
it is conceived rather as the art behind which other arts are hidden. 

The early Puritan authors in this country were almost without excep- 
tion college graduates who could look back upon a classical training 
acquired by seven years of grammar school study, concluded by four 
college years wherein the students were intensively drilled in rhetoric. 
They were, to begin with, inheritors of such Elizabethan training and 
rhetorical theory as had been in vogue at the English universities; they 
knew what Erasmus, Peacham, and Florio had to say on the art of 
writing well,—they further studied apophthegms culled from the rhet- 
oric texts of Farnaby, Dugard, Draxe, and Buchler. Rapin’s works, 
especially his Reflections upon the Eloquence of these Times; particularly of the 
Barr and Pulfit (London, 1672), and the usual artes concionandi+ of 
Keckermann, Chappell, and others were the standard texts for divinity 
students. The consciousness of literary style was clearly a matter not 
left to chance; the gentlemen who came to establish a ‘Plantation 
Religious’? were steeped in the humanistic tradition, and believed that 
the key to “‘truth” lay in advancement of learning. They believed 
therefore that such art was reckoned best which was clearest, most 
convincing, ingratiating, and appropriate. 


1 Manuals designed to teach the art of stirring the emotions. 
665 


666 The Puritans 


Pulpit eloquence, especially the florid oratory, the figured, harmo- 
nious, ‘‘Ciceronian’”’ periods of Hooker, Andrewes, and Donne had 
won high favor during the first quarter of the seventeenth century; 
and some few Puritans there were who defended the older tradition. 
‘And where are there such high straines of all sorts of Rhetoricall Tropes, 
& figures, to be found in any Author,” asks.Charles Chauncy in 1655, 
“as there are in the writings of the Prophets G Apostles?” + Chauncy’s 
apology for the fashions of an earlier day is the more striking since 
his voice was raised too late to win a hearing. After Perkins’s The Art 
of Prophesying (1631), with its emphasis upon plainness, achieved wide 
currency, ‘“‘high style’’ fell into disrepute. In 1642 John Cotton dis- 
paraged “affecting carnall eloquence”’ in the pulpit, on the grounds 
that “‘swelling words of humane wisedome make mens preaching seeme 
to Christ (as it were) a blubber-lipt Ministry.” 2 It is a point of view 
even more elaborately stated by Thomas Hooker (see p. 672). The 
view held by Puritans that Holy Writ needed not the profane inter- 
mingling of human. embellishment is echoed in the preface to the Bay 
Psalm Book (see p. 670), and Roger Williams, whose literary art was 
really not so uninspired as he would have his readers believe, asks: 
‘And yet, is the Language plaine? it is the liker Christs: Is the composure 
rude? such was his outward Beauty.” > 

Plain style was not confined to pulpit eloquence or to theological 
treatises alone. Historians like Daniel Gookin and William Bradford 
take pains to see that their narratives were adapted to their audience. 
Gookin remarks that his stories are “not clothed in elegancy of words 
and accurate sentences,’ but rather that he has ‘‘endeavoured all 
plainness . . . that the most vulgar capacity might understand;* Gov- 
ernor Bradford commends “Of Plimmoth Plantation” by saying in 


1 Gods Mercy, shewed to his people in giving them a faithful Ministry, p. 37. The ex- 
ample of the court and university preachers is cited by W. Fraser Mitchell, English 
Pulpit Oratory, p. 106, as the reason for the ornate fashion in rhetoric. Richard F. 
Jones, ‘“The Attack on Pulpit Eloquence in the Restoration: An Episode in the De- 
velopment of the Neo-Classical Standards for Prose,” Journal of English and Germanic 
Philology, XXX (1931), 188-217, notes the turn to plainness after 1660, and in 
“Science and Language in England in the Midseventeenth Century,” ibid., XXXI 
(1932), 315-331, he remarks on the great influence of Bacon and Boyle in bringing 
about a simpler prose style. See also his ‘Science and English Prose Style in the 
Third Quarter of the Seventeenth Century,’ Publications of the Modern Language 
Association, XLV (1930), 977-1009. 

2 A Brief Exposition Of the whole Book Of Canticles (London, 1642), p. 112. 

3 Experiments of Spiritual Life & Health (London, 1652). Dedicatory address to 
Lady Vane the Younger. . 

4 Preface to Historical Collections of the Indians in New-England, Collections of the Mas- 
sachusetts Historical Society, first series, I (1792), 141-226. Preface dated November, 


1674. 


Literary Theory 667 


his brief preface that he is about to narrate events “in a plaine stile; 
with singuler regard unto y® simple trueth in all things.’ Indeed, the 
belief that truth was integral with well-written history was so firmly 
established by the second quarter of the seventeenth century that 
Hobbes assumed its acceptance in his preface to Homer’s Odysses (1675): 
‘*For both the Poet and the Historian writeth only (or should do) matter 
of Fact.” 2 

As we have already seen,’ the Puritan held to a belief in the poet’s 
high calling, but thought that the danger of poetry lay in its magic 
spell,—that it tempted men away from truth to fable; Sprat and other 
members of the Royal Society expressed the view that too much fictional 
nonsense achieved the dignity of poetic treatment. Yet the fact that 
danger lurked within the form in no way meant that men should shun 
it, providing they exhibited skill and high seriousness in handling their 
theme. The gentlemen who compiled The Whole Booke of Psalmes, 
saying that “‘Gods Altar needs not our pollishings,”’ were employing 
poetry the better to honor God, while at the same time modestly dep- 
recating their ability to write verse,—assuming God’s gracious ac- 
ceptance of their poor offering. Edward Taylor throughout his life 
chose verse to express his ardent love of Christ (see p. 650); Wiggles- 
worth told the story of judgment day in monotonous fourteeners, 
though he ‘‘attended Conscience rather than Elegance, fidelity rather 
than poetry,” * thus sensibly acknowledging his inadequacy as a poet, 
for “‘every good minister hath not a gift of spiritual poetry”’;> and 
Jonathan Mitchell stated the case very clearly by saying: ‘Great 
Truths to dress in Meeter; Becomes a Preacher,” adding, 


No Cost too great, no Care too curious is 
To set forth Truth, and win mens Souls to bliss.® 


Along with the conception of the poet’s high calling a further view 
obtained. Puritan schoolboys, like their Anglican cousins, were set 
the task of composing verse merely as rhetorical exercises. John Wilson’s 
Song of Deliverance had been written in doggerel staves that children 
might more easily memorize history. Richard Steere’s Monumental 
Memorial is recommended to the reader as a narrative which “‘in the 
Attire of Measure and Cadency, whose even and easie Pace being more 


1 MS (ca. 1650) in Massachusetts State Library, Boston. See Facsimile, ed. John 
A. Doyle (London, 1896). 

2 Ed. J. E. Spingarn, Critical Essays of the Seventeenth Century, I1, 70. 

* See p. 547. 

* Preface, The Day of Doom (1662), sig. xx3V. 

5 Ibid., sig. x3. 6 Jbid., sig. Br. 


668 | The Puritans 


Alluring and Captivating (Especially with youth, or the Crittically 
Ingenious of this Age) than the Elaborate Volumes of Prose left to us 
by our Worthy Ancestors, may probably the sooner Decoy or Invite thy 
Perusal.” + Though the emphasis is still upon the matter, we are given ° 
to believe that a pleasing manner will do no harm. To none of the earlier 
generation, however, would Addison’s conception of poetry as a mental 
relaxation, an indulgence of the imagination, have been adequate. Not 
until the eighteenth century did the urbane appreciation of poetry as 
a social accomplishment supersede an enthusiasm for verse as a means 
of expressing great truths in exalted moods. 

The more critical dissection of “‘polite letters’? gained no headway 
among Puritans until after Dryden’s famous prefaces had appeared; 
nor indeed until Blackmore, Addison, and Pope, by calling attention 
to the neglected beauties in classic literature and by their example 
and analysis of epic poetry, had awakened a literary consciousness. 
The eighteenth century was well advanced in its first quarter before 
Cotton Mather in his preface to Psalterium Americanum attempted to 
defend the new idiom of blank verse by translating the Psalms (see 
p. 678). It is clear that Mather did not grasp the meaning of ‘“‘blank 
verse,” for each Bible stave is fashioned into an unrimed septinary 
couplet, lacking even the naive charm of the Bay Psalm versions. 
Here, for example, is one stanza: 


Smooth were his Mouth’s fine butter’d Words; 
but war was in his heart; 

much softer were his deartlé than oil; 

and yet drawn Swords they were.? 


But whether he understood the character of blank verse or not, his 
defense of it and of a good English idiom in the preface is a very con- 
scious attempt to explore the possibilities of language, as well as to 
liberate colonial writers from the charge of provincialism. It is all the 
more significant in view of the fact that even in England blank verse 
was by no means established as a poetic form in 1718. Between Paradise 
Lost (1667) and Thomson’s Winter (1726), few poets had used it and 
fewer still had discussed it; indeed, Addison’s famous Spectator essays 
on the great Puritan epic barely touch upon blank verse. By the time 


1 Address ‘““To the Reader,’’ A Monumental Memorial of Marine Mercy Being an 
Acknowledgement of an High Hand of Divine Deliverance on the Deep in the Time of distress 
(Boston, 1684). 

2 Psalm LV, verse 21 (Boston, 1718), p. 135. 

3 Cf. Spectator 285: “‘... Where the verse is not built upon rhymes, there pomp 
of sound and energy of expression are indispensably necessary to support the style, 


Literary Theory 669 


John Bulkley came to write his preface to Wolcott’s Poetical Meditations 
(see p. 680) the Puritan era was at its close. Bulkley’s definition of 
wit, his discrimination between “‘the Accomplish’d Poet and the Great 
Man,” and his apology for the poet as one who, by choosing a verse 
medium, has ‘‘Diverted some of his Leisure Hours” were the common- 
places that might be uttered by any eighteenth-century gentleman. In 
the same year Cotton Mather was preparing his handbook for divinity 
students, Manuductio ad Ministerium, with its essay ““Of Poetry and Style” 
(see p. 684), which in its catholicity of taste and urbanity suggests the 
spirit of current periodical essays rather than the utilitarian aim of a 
preaching manual. It was not until 1745 that a literary essay, written 
solely for entertainment, was published in the colonies. The satire on 
style which Mather Byles printed in The American Magazine “‘to cultivate 
polite Writing’ (see p. 689) really ushers’ in a new era of conscious 
literary feeling; here is an essay wherein the art of writing is conceived 
as an end in itself, one in which the utilitarian motive for presentation 
is forgotten and the artfulness of a cultivated style is extolled. Though 
serviceability still remained the criterion of good writing for mid- 
eighteenth-century colonial writers, there was often bound with it too 
great a literary self-consciousness to be characteristically Puritan. The 
idea of “‘taste’” that Byles implies is one far removed from that ex- 
pressed by Richard Mather a century before in his preface to the Bay 
Psalm Book. The eighteenth-century minister, witty and urbane, was 
guided by very different literary standards from those in fashion during 
his great-grandfather’s day, for Byles’s writing indicate that God’s 
altar received from his hands very solicitous “‘pollishings.”’ 


PREFACE TO THE BAY PSALM BOOK 


[The original draft of the preface to the Bay Psalm Book, written 
by Richard Mather (1596-1669), has been recently discovered among 
the papers of the Prince Collection in the Boston Public Library. See 


and keep it from falling into the flatness of prose,’ ed. Chalmers (Boston, 1854), 
p- 275. It is worth notice that a Richard Steere published at Boston in 1713 a poem, 
The Daniel Catcher, ““To which is Added, Earth’s Felicities, Heaven’s Allowances, A 
Blank Poem.” It opens thus: 


Upon the Earth there are so many Treasures 
Various Abounding objects of Delight, 

That to Enumerate, would be a Task 

Too ponderous for my Imperfect Skill, 

Or Pen, to Charactise Effect’ally. 


670 The Puritans 


“The Preface to The Bay Psalm Book,” More Books, 1V (1929), 223-229. 
See the introduction to selections from the Bay Psalm Book, p. 555.] 


THE PREFACE. 


HE singing of Psalmes, though it breath forth nothing but holy 
harmony, and melody: yet such is the subtilty of the enemie, 
and the enmity of our nature against the Lord, & his wayes, that our 
hearts can finde matter of discord in this harmony, and crotchets of 
division in this holy melody.-for- There have been three questions espe- 
cially stirring concerning singing. First. what psalmes are to be sung in 
churches? whether Davids and other scripture psalmes, or the psalmes 
invented by the gifts of godly men in every age of the church. Secondly, 
if scripture psalmes, whether in their owne words, or in such meter - 
as english poetry is wont to run in? Thirdly. by whom are they to be 
sung? whether by the whole churches together with their voices? or 
by one man singing alone and the rest joynimg in silence, & in the 
close saying amen. ! 

- Touching the first, certainly the singing of Davids psalmes was an 
acceptable worship of God, not only in his owne, but in succeeding 
times. ... 

As for the scruple that some take at the translation of the book of 
psalmes into meeter, because Davids psalmes were sung in his owne 
words without meeter: wee answer- First. There are many verses 
together in several psalmes of David which run in rithmes (as those 
that know the hebrew and as Buxtorf shews! Thesau. pa. 629.) which 
shews at least the lawfullnes of singing psalmes in english rithmes. 

Secondly. The psalmes are penned in such verses as are sutable to 
the poetry of the hebrew language, and not in the common style of 
such other bookes of the old Testament as are not poeticall; now no 
protestant doubteth but that all the bookes of the scripture should by 
Gods ordinance be extant in the mother tongue of each nation, that 
they may be understood of all, hence the psalmes are to be translated 
into our english tongue; and is in our english tongue wee are to sing 
them, then as all our english songs (according to the course of our 
english poetry) do run in metre, soe ought Davids psalmes to be trans- 
lated into meeter, that soe wee may sing the Lords songs, as in our 
english tongue soe in such verses as are familar to an english eare 
which are commonly metricall: and as it can be no just offence to any 
good conscience, to sing Davids hebrew songs in english words, soe 
neither to sing his poeticall verses in english poeticall metre; men 


Literary Theory i Pan | 671 


might as well stumble at singing the hebrew psalmes in our english 
tunes (and not in the hebrew tunes) as at singing them in english 
meeter, (which are our verses) and not in such verses as are generally 
used by David according to the poetry of the hebrew language: but 
the truth is, as the Lord hath hid from us the hebrew tunes, lest wee 
should think our selves bound to imitate them; soe also the course and 
frame (for the most part) of their hebrew poetry, that wee might not 
think our selves bound to imitate that, but that every nation without 
scruple might follow as the grave sort of tunes of their owne country 
songs, soe the graver sort of verses of their owne country poetry. 

Neither let any think, that for the meetre sake wee have taken 
liberty or poeticall licence to depart from the true and proper sence of 
Davids words in the hebrew verses, noe; but it hath beene one part 
of our religious care and faithfull indeavour, to keepe close to the 
originall text. ... 

For although wee have cause to bless God in many respects for the 
religious indeavours of the translaters of the psalmes into meetre usually 
annexed to our Bibles, yet it is not unknowne to the godly learned that 
they have rather presented a paraphrase then the words of David 
translated according to the rule 2 chron. 29. 30. and that their addition 
to the words, detractions from the words are not seldome and rare, 
but very frequent and many times needles, (which we suppose would 
not be approved of if the psalmes were so translated into prose) and 
that their variations of the sense, and alterations of the sacred text too 
frequently, may iustly minister matter of offence to them that are able 
to compare the translation with the text; of which failings, some 
iudicious have oft complained, others have been grieved, wherupon it 
hath bin generally desired, that as wee doe inioye other, soe (if it were 
the Lords will) wee might inioye this ordinance also in its native 
purity: wee have therefore done our indeavour to make a plaine and 
familiar translation of the psalmes and words of David into english 
metre, and have not soe much as presumed to paraphrase to give the 
sense of his meaning in other words; we have therefore attended heerin 
as our chief guide the originall, shunning all additions, except such as 
even the best translators of them in prose supply, avoiding all materiall 
detractions from words or sence... . 

As for our translations, wee have with our english Bibles (to which 
next to the Originall wee have had respect) used the Idioms of our 
owne tongue in stead of Hebraismes, lest they might seeme english 
barbarismes. 

Synonimaes wee use indifferently: as folk for people, and Lord for 


672 The Puritans 


Iehovah, and sometime (though seldome) God for Iehovah; for which (as 
for some other interpretations of places cited in the new Testament) we 
have the scriptures authority ps. 14. with 53. Heb. 1. 6. with psalme 
97. 7. Where a phrase is doubtfull wee have followed that which (in 
our owne apprehension) is most genuine & edifying: 

Somtime wee have contracted, somtime dilated the same hebrew 
word, both for the sence and the verse sake: which dilatation wee 
conceive to be no paraphrasticall addition no more then the contraction 
of a true and full translation to be any unfaithfull detraction or dim- 
inution: as when wee dilate who healeth and say he it is who healeth; 
soe when wee contract, those that stand in awe of God and say Gods fearers. 

Lastly. Because some hebrew words have a more full and emphaticall 
signification then any one english word can or doth somtime expresse, 
hence wee have done that somtime which faithfull translators may doe, 
viz. not only to translate the word but the emphasis of it... . 

As for all other changes of numbers, tenses, and characters of speech, 
they are such as either the hebrew will unforcedly beare, or our english 
forceably calls for, or they no way change the sence; and such are 
printed usually-in an other character. 

If therefore the verses are not alwayes so smooth and elegant as 
some may desire or expect; let them consider that Gods Altar needs 
not our pollishings: Ex. 20. for wee have respected rather a plaine 
translation, then to smooth our verses with the sweetnes of any para- 
phrase, and soe have attended Conscience rather then Elegance, fidel- 
ity rather then poetry, in translating the hebrew words into english 
language, and Davids poetry into english meetre; that soe wee may 
sing in Sion the Lords songs of prayse according to his owne will; 
untill hee take us from hence, and wipe away all our teares, & bid us 
enter into our masters ioye to sing eternall Halleluiahs. 


THOMAS HOOKER 


[For a discussion of Thomas Hooker, see p. 290. The text is from 
the original edition (London, 1648).] 


FROM PREFACE TO A SURVEY OF THE SUMME 
OF CHURCH-DISCIPLINE 


HAT the discourse comes forth in such a homely 
dresse and course habit, the Reader must be de- 
sired to consider, It comes out of the wildernesse, where 
curiosity is not studied. Planters if they can provide 


Literary Theory . 673 


cloth to go warm, they leave the cutts and lace to those 
that study to go fine. 

As it is beyond my skill, so I professe it is beyond my 
care to please the nicenesse of mens palates, with any 
quaintnesse of language. They who covet more sauce 
then meat, they must provide cooks to their minde. It 
was a cavill cast upon Hierom,' that in his writings he 
was Ciceronianus non Christianus: My rudenesse frees me Erasmus in 
wholly from this exception, for being Aéyw I’dimrns,? as eta Hier. 
the Apostle hath it, if I would, I could not lavish out 
in the loosenesse of language, and as the case stands, if 
I could answer any mans desire in that daintinesse of 
speech, I would not do the matter that Injury which 
is now under my hand: Ornarz res ipsa negat.? The sub- 
stance and solidity of the frame is that, which pleaseth 
the builder, its the painters work to provide varnish. 

If the manner of the discourse should occasion any 
disrellish in the apprehension of the weaker Reader, be- 
cause it may seem too Logicall, or Scholasticall, in regard 
of the terms I use, or the way of dispute that I proceed 
in, in some places: I have these two things to professe, 

1. That plainesse and perspicuity, both for matter 
and manner of expression, are the things, that I have 
conscientiously indeavoured in the whole debate: for I 
have ever thought writings that come abroad, they are 
not to dazle, but direct the apprehension of the meanest, 
and I have accounted it the chiefest part of Iudicious 
learning, to make a hard point easy and familiar in 
explication. Quz non vult intelligi, debet negligi.* 


MICHAEL WIGGLESWORTH 


[College undergraduates were required to deliver orations as part 
of their training in rhetoric. Michael Wigglesworth’s declamation, 
“The prayse of Eloquence,” was delivered in 1650, early in his senior 
bachelor year. Though it nowhere mentions pulpit oratory as the chief 
end of eloquence, we must keep in mind that Wigglesworth would 
assume, as well as his listeners, that sermonizing was indeed the chief 
est part of oratory. The passage expounds the Protestant theory that 
oratory is the ‘‘means’’ of conviction; that the principal use of public 
speaking as a “‘means’’ was for working conversion by the sermon. 
For an account of Wigglesworth, see p. 548. The selection is from 
Samuel E. Morison, Harvard College in the Seventeenth Century, pp. 180-183, 


674 | The Puritans 


passages transcribed from the manuscript original in the library of the 
New England Historical Genealogical Society, and used by permission. ] 


THE PRAYSE OF ELOQUENCE 


OW SWEETLY doth eloquence even inforce trueth upon the under- 
H standing, and subtly convay knowledge into the minde be it. 
never so dull of conceiving, and sluggish in yeelding its assente. So 
that let a good Oratour put forth the utmost of his skill, and you shall 
hear him so lay open and unfould, so evidence and demonstrate from 
point to point what he hath in hand, that he wil make a very block | 
understand his discourse. Let him be to giue a description of something 
absent or unknown; how strangely doth he realize and make it present 
to his hearers apprehensions, framing in their mindes as exact an idea 
of that which they never saw, as they can possibly have of any thing 
that they have bin longest and best acquainted with. Or doth he take 
upon him to personate some others in word or deedes why he presents 
his hearers not with a lifeless picture, but with the living persons of 
those concerning whom he speaks. They see, they hear, they handle 
them, they walk they talk with them, and what not? Or is he to speak 
about such things as are already known? Why should he here discourse 
after the vulgar manner, and deliver his mind as a cobler would doe: 
his hearers might then have some ground to say they knew as much 
as their oratour could teach them. But by the power of eloquence 
ould truth receivs a new habit. though its essence be the same yet its 
visage is so altered that it may currently pass and be accepted as a 
novelty. The same verity is again and again perhaps set before the 
same guests but drest and disht up after a new manner, and every 
manner season’d so well that the intellectuall parts may both without 
nauseating receiv, and so oft as it doth receiv it still draw some fresh 
nourishing virtue from it. So that Eloquence giues new luster and 
bewty, new strength new vigour, new life unto trueth; presenting it 
with such variety as refresheth, actuating it with such hidden powerful 
energy, that a few languid sparks are blown up to a shining flame. 

And which is yet more: Eloquence doth not onely reviue the things 
known but secretly convay life into the hearers understanding rousing 
it out of its former slumber, quickning it beyond its naturall vigour, 
elevating it aboue its ordinary conception. There are not onely objects 
set before it, but ey’s (after a sort) giuen it to see these objects in such 
wise as it never saw. Yea it is strengthened as to apprehend that which 
is taught it, so of it self with enlargment to comprehend many things 


Literary Theory 675 
which are not made known unto it. Hence it comes to pass that after 
the hearing of a wel-composed speech livelily exprest the understanding 
of the Auditor is so framed into the mould of Eloquence, that he could 
almost goe away and compose the like himself either upon the same 
or another subject. And whats the reason of this? why his mind is 
transported with a kind of rapture, and inspired with a certain oratoric 
fury, as if the oratour together with his words had breathed his soul 
and spirit into those that hear him. 

These and the like effects hath Eloquence upon the understanding. 
But furthermore ’tis a fit bait to catch the will and affections. For 
hereby they are not onely layd in wait for, but surprized: nor onely 
surprized, but subdued; nor onely subdued, but triumphed over. Yet 
Eloquence beguil’s with such honesty, subdues with such mildness, 
triumphs with such sweetness: that here to be surprized is nothing 
dangerous, here to be subject is the best freedom, this kind of servitude 
is more desireable then liberty. For whereas our untractable nature 
refuseth to be drawn, and a stiff will scorn’s to be compel’d: yet by the 
power of wel-composed speech nature is drawn against the stream with 
delight, and the will after a sort compelled with its owne consent. 
Altho: for a time it struggle and make resistance, yet at length it suffer’s 
it self to be vanquish’t, and takes a secret contentment in being over- 
come. 

In like manner, for the affections. Look as a mighty river augmented 
with excessiue rains or winter snows swelling above its wonted channel 
bear’s down banks and bridges, overflows.feilds and hedges, sweeps 
away all before it, that might obstruct its passage: so Eloquence over- 
turn’s, overturn’s all things that stand in its way, and carrys them 
down with the irresistible stream of its all controuling power. Wonderful 
it were to speak of the severall discoverys of the power in severall 
affections: wonderfull but to think in generall, how like a blustering 
tempest it one while driues before it the raging billow’s of this troubled 
Ocean: how other whiles (as though it had them in fetters it curb’s 
and calm’s the fury at a word. And all this without offering violence 
to the party’s so affected; nay with a secret pleasure and delight it 
stirs men up to the greatest displeasure and distast. Doth it affect 
with grief? why to be so grieved is no grievance. doth it kindle coales, 
nay flames of fiery indignation? why those flames burn not, but rather 
cherish. doth it draw tears from the eys? why even tears flow with 
pleasure. For as is wel sayd by one upon this point In omni animi 
motu etiam in dolore est quaedam jucunditas.1 So potently, so sweetly 
doth Eloquence command. and of a skilfull orator in point of the 


676 7 _ The Puritans 


affections that may be spoken really, which the Poet affirmeth fabu- 
lously of AZolus god of the winds. ... 

But I need instance no more. some of you I hope will by this time 
assent unto what has bin hitherto prov’d that Eloquence is of such use- 
ful concernment and powerfull operation. But methinks I hear some 
still objecting. ’Tis very true Eloquence is a desirable thing, but what 
are we the better for knowing its worth unless we could hope our selues 
to attain it? It is indeed a right excellent indowment but ’tis not every 
capacity, nay scarce one of a hundreth that can reach it. How many 
men of good parts do we find that yet excel not here? Cicero indeed, 
a man in whom vast understanding and naturall fluent facility of 
speech conspire together; no marvail if he make judges weep and princes 
tremble. But to what purpose is it for a man of weak parts and mean 
abilitys to labour after that which he is never like to compass? Had 
we not as good toss our caps against the wind as weary out our selves 
in the pursuit of that which so few can reach to? 

An. To these I would answer first, the reason why so few attain it 
is because there [are] few that indeed desire it. hence they run not as 
if they ment to win, they pursue not as if they hop’t to overtake. But 
aly let me answer them with Turner’s ? words upon this very argument 
Negligentiam nostram arguit, qui cum non possimus. quod debemus, 
optimus, nolumus quod possimus, bené. we cannot do what we would 
therefore will not doe what we may. This savours of a slouthfull sistem. 
Because we cannot keep pace with the horsemen, shall we refuse to 
accompany the footmen? Because we cannot run, shall we sit down and 
refuse to goe? we cannot reach so far as our selues desire and as some 
others it may be attain, shall we not therefore reach as far as our 
endeavours may carry us? Because we cannot be Oratores optimi, do 
we content our selues to be Oratores Pessimi? 

And as for those that have most excell’d in this Mini whence had 
they their excellency? they did not come declaming into the world: 
they were not born with orations in their mouths: eloquence did not 
sit upon their lips whilest they lay in their cradles: neither did they 
suck it in from their mothers brests. But if you examine the matter 
you shall find that by incredible paines and daly exercise, they even 
turn’d the cours of nature into another channel, and cut out a way for 
the gentle stream of Eloquence, where naturall impediments seem’d 
altogether to deny it passage: thereby effecting as much as another 
could bragg, viam aut inveniam aut faciam: ? Eminent in this respect 
is the example of the two best oratours that fame has brought to our 
ears. Of Cicero, who when he had naturally a shrill, screaming, ill- 


Literary Theory A 677 


tun’d voyce rising to such a note that it indanger’d his very life: yet 
by art and industry he acquired such a commendable habit, as none 
with ease could speak more sweetly than he. And Demosthenes, though 
he were naturally of a stammering tongue crasy-body’d and broken- 
winded, and withall had accustom’d himself to a jetting uncomely 
deportment of his body, or some part of it at least: when to conclude 
he had scarce any part of an oratour, saue onely an ardent desire to 
be an oratour: yet by his indefatigable paines he so overcame these 
naturall defects, as that he came to be reputed prince of the Grecian 
Eloquence. Though this was not gotten without some further difficulty 
and seeming vain attempts. Insomuch as he was severall times quite 
discouraged, and once threw all aside, dispairing ever to become an 
oratour because the people laught at his orations. yet notwithstanding 
being heartned to it again by some of his welwillers, he never left 
striving till he had won the prize. 

Go too therefore my fellow-students (for to you I address my speech, 
my superiours I attempt not to speak to, desiring rather to learn of 
them more of this nature, but) to you giue me leav to say: Let no man 
hereafter tel me I despair of excelling in the oratoricall faculty, there- 
fore ’tis bootless to endeavour. Who more unlike to make an oratour 
_ than Demosthenes except it were one who had no tongue in his head? 
yet Demosthenes became orator optimus. Tell me not “I have made 
trial once and again, but find my labour fruitless.”’ Thou art not the 
first that hast made an onset, and bin repelled; neither canst thou 
presage what renew’d endeavors may produce. Would you then obtain 
this skill? take Demosthenes his course; gird up your loines, put to 
your shoulders, and to it again, and again, and agen, let nothing 
discourage you. Know that to be a dunce, to be a stammerer, unable 
to bring forth three or four sentences hanging well together, this is 
an easy matter: but to become an able speaker, hic labor, hoc opus 
est.* Would you haue your orations pleas, such as need not be laughts 
at? why follow him in that also. Let them be such as smell of the lamp, 
as was sayd of his. Not slovenly I mean, but elaborate, diurnam in- 
dustriam et nocturnis lucubrationibus elaborate,> such as savour, of 
some paines taken with them. A good oration is not made at the first 
thought, nor scarce at the first writing over. Nor is true Eloquence 
wont to hurry it out thick and threefould, as if each word: were running 
for a wadger: nor yet to mutter or whisper it out of a book after a 
dreaming manner, with such a voyce as the oratour can scantly heare 
himself speak; but to utter it with lively affection, to pronounce it 
distinctly with audible voyce. 


678 | The Puritans 


But I shall burden your patience no further at the present. Those 
and the like vices in declaming that are contrary to Eloquence, were 
the chief motives that drew me first into thoughts of this discourse. 
But I see I cannot reach at this season to speak of them particularly. » 
wherefore with your good leav and gods assistance I shall rather treat 
of them at another opportunity. ... 


COTTON MATHER 


[Cotton Mather published his translations of the Psalms, Psalterium 
Americanum (Boston, 1718), because, as the selection from his preface 
states, he felt all previous renderings had not kept faithfully enough to 
the Hebrew original. His attempt to use what he calls “blank verse”’ 
sets the translation apart and gives special interest to the introduction 
(see p. 668). The text is from the preface, pp. vil—xili, with omissions 
indicated. For Mather, see p. 162.] 


PREFACE TO PSALTERIUM AMERICANUM 


§. 3. Our Poetry has attempted many Versions of the PsaALms, in 
such Numbers and Measures, as might render them capable of being 
Sung, in those grave Tunes, which have been prepared and received 
for our Christian Psalmody. But of all the more than twice Seven Versions 
which I have seen, it must be affirmed, That they leave out a vast 
heap of those rich things, which the Holy Spirir of Gop speaks in the 
Original Hebrew; and that they fut in as large an Heap of poor 
Things, which are intirely their own. All this has been meerly for the 
sake of preserving the Clink of the Rhime: Which after all, is of small 
consequence unto a Generous Poem; and of none at all unto the Melody 
of Singing; But of how little then, in Singing unto the Lorp! Some famous 
pieces of Poetry, which this Refining Age has been treated withal, have 
been offered us in Blank Gerse. And in Blank Gerse we now have 
the Glorious Book of Psatms presented unto us: The Psaxs fitted 
unto the Tunes commonly used in the Assembles of our Zion: But so 
fitted, that the Christian Singer has his Devotions now supplied, with ALL ” 
that the Holy Spririr of Gop has dictated, in this Illustrious and 
Celestial Bestowment upon His Church in the World; and there is 
Noruinc Besiwes the pure Dictates of that Holy Sprrir imposed on him. 
Now, True Piety, Thou shalt be Judge, whether such a Divine matter 
for thy Songs thus disencumbred from every thing that may give them 
any Humane Debasements, be not really to be preferred before any Com- 


Literary Theory 679 


positions thou hast ever yet been entertain’d withal. Doubtless, the 
more that any are desirous to offer unto the Glorious Gop what is 
purely His Own, and the more concerned that any are to have their 
Worship entirely Regulated and Animated, by the Spirir or Gop, 
the more agreeable to them, will be such an Instrument of Devotion, 
as is here prepared. Tho’ the Hymns have not the Trifle of Rhime, as 
a Lace to set them off, yet they are all Glorious within, which is the thing 
that Manly Christianity has its eye most upon; and in the Spzritual Songs 
thus enjoyed and improved, thou mayst most hope to have the Holy 
Spirit of Gop, who indited them, speaking unto thee, even such Things 
as cannot be uttered. 

But that our Cantional! may be furnished with a ipo bandas 
and the Faithful be plentifully feasted with Angels Food, Behold, an 
Addition of Passages Collected in Metre, (but still as exactly translated) 
from some other paris of the Sacred Scriptures, to answer the various 
occasions of Christianity. 

§. 4. For the New Translation of the Psatms, which is here endeav- 
oured, an Appeal may be with much Assurance made, unto all that are 
Masters of the Hebrew Tongue, whether it be not much more agreeable 
to the Original, than the Old one, or than any that has yet been offered 
unto the World. Perhaps there is more Liberty taken here in Translat- 
ing the First Verse of the Psalter, than almost any Verse in the whole 
Book beside. It keeps close to the Orginal; and even when a word of 
supply is introduced, it is usually a needless Complement unto the 
care of exactness, to distinguish it at all, as we have done, with an Jtalica- 
Character; for it is really in the Intention and Emphasis of the Original. 
Yea, the just Laws of Translation had not been at all violated, if a much 
greater Liberty had been taken, for the beating out of the Golden and 
Massy Hebrew into a more Extended English. For, it may be observed, 
if you Translate a French Book, suppose, into English, you turn it into 
English Phrase, and make not a French English of it; For, Il fait froid, for 
instance, you do not say, Jt makes Cold, but, It is Cold. We have tied our 
selves to Hebraisms, more scrupulously, than there is real occasion for. .. . 

§. 5. Most certainly, our Translation of the PsALms, without the 
Fetters of Rhime upon it, can be justly esteemed no prejudice to the 
Character of Poetry in the performance. For indeed, however it is now 
appropriated, according to the true sense of the Term, to Rhythme it 
self a Similis Desinentia, or, a likeness of sound in the last Syllables of the 
Verse, is not essential. Old Bede will give you such a Definition of 
Rhythme, and bring other Authorities besides Austins for it, that Scaliger 
thereupon holds, all Verses wherein Regard is had unto the Number 


680 The Puritans 


of Syllables, to have a claim unto it. Be that as the Criticks on the Term 
shall please, our Translation is all in Metre; and really more tied unto 
Measure, than the Original appears to have been, by all the Examinations 
that have as yet been employ’d upon it.... 

I am therefore strongly of the Opinion, ‘That the Poesie of the Ancient 
Hebrews, knew no Measure, but that of the unknown Music, wherein it 
was to be accommodated. Our Psats in the Hebrew, are not so much. 
Metrical as Musical; And hence, the very Inscriptions of them sometimes 
intimate, that there was a sort of Melody, unto which they were adapted. 
It is true, the Oriental Nations at this day, have their Metred Poetry; 
But it is of a late Original. However, ’tis very certain, that all the skill 
in the World, will hardly find the Rules of that Metred Poetry observed 
with any exactness in the Songs of the Sacred Scriptures. There is 
little value to be set on the Authority, of either Philo, or Josephus, and 
and after them, of Zerom, who quotes Origen and Eusebius for it, when 
they go to resolve the Hebrew Poesie, into I know not what, Lyricks and 
Hexameters. And therefore it may be hoped, that our Version may be 
released from the Chime of a, Similis Desinentia, without being censured 
for Unpoetical..The Sublime Thought, and the Divine Flame, alone is 
enough, to challenge the Character of Poetry for these Holy Composures. 
And ifany Beauties be wanting, ’tis owing to the lowness of the Language, 
whereinto a strict and close Translation, is what we are here tied unto. 


JOHN BULKLEY, 1679-1731 


[The Reverend Mr. John Bulkley of Colchester, Connecticut, was the 
brilliant son of the Reverend Mr. Gershom Bulkley. He was gradu- 
ated from Harvard College in 1699, and like his more famous father 
devoted his life to medicine as well as to the service of Christ. Isola- 
tion only whetted the curiosity of this orthodox Calvinist, in philoso- 
phy, politics, and polite letters. He was reckoned by Charles Chauncy 
(1705-1787) one of “the three first for extent and strength of genius 
and powers New-England has ever yet produced”’ (Collections of the 
Massachusetts Historical Society, first series, X, 155). 

Bulkley’s preface to the Poetical Meditations (1725) of Roger Wolcott 
(see p. 657) is both an essay upon poetry and upon the rights of man. 
It was reprinted in part as ‘‘An Inquiry into the Right of the Aborigi- 
nal Natives to the Lands in America,” in Collections of the Massachusetts 
Historical Society, first series, IV (1795), 159-181. For biographical 
data, see Sibley, Biographical Sketches, 1V, 450-454. The text following 
is from the 1725 edition, pp. i-x, with omissions indicated. ] 


Literary Theory 681 


PREFACE TO WOLCOTT’S POETICAL MEDITATIONS 


§ 1. The buisy and restless Soul of Man which in all Ages has been 
Fruitful in Many Inventions, as it has been greatly Disserviceable to the 
Good and Comfort of Humane Life by the Discovery of things Prej- 
udicial to it; so at the same time may we not say, has made some Com- 
pensation by the Invention of others of a Proportionable Advantage 
and Benefit. It were easy by a detail of some of the many Useful Arts 
found out by Man to give Evidence of this, but it must Suffice at 
Present, to Instance in one only, viz. That Art of Writing or Expressing 
all Sounds, and Consequently the Conceptions of our Minds, by a 
Few Letters Variously Disposed or Plac’d, the Commodity or Profit of 
which to Mankin’d is so Various & Extensive as not to be easily ac- 
counted for. This Art is stiled by One *Admirandarum Omnium inventionum 
humanarum Signaculum. 1. e. ‘The Wonder or Master-piece of all Humane 
Inventions: And how deservedly is it so, whether we Speak with Refer- 
ence to the Strangeness or the Benefit of it? How Strange is it that by the 
Various Disposition of so Few Letters as Our Alphabet contains, all Sounds 
should be express’d, and thereby all the Conceptions or Ideals of our 
Minds! And as for the Commodity of it; not to mention others, from 
hence it comes to pass that we are Furnish’d with so much Useful 
History, which bringing into our View both Persons and Things most 
distant from us in time and place, does greatly delight and entertain 
us, and at the same time Instruct or Teach and Furnish us with a 
main part of our most useful Knowledge. 

§2 In the Early Ages of the World, before this most certain way 
of Communicating the Knowledge of things was found out; other 
Mediums were made use of for that end, the Principal of which seems 
to have been Representative Symbols or Hteroglyphicks, which way or 
Method of Communication every one knows still Obtains among 
many Uniletter’d Nations in the World. But this as its very uncertain on 
the Account of that great Variety of Interpretations such Symbols are liable 
to, and as the Misconstruction of them, its reasonable to think, has 
been none of the least Prolifick Fountains of the Heathen Mythology, by 
which the Antient & True Tradition of the First Ages of the World 
has been so much Corrupted and Alter’d, so is now out of use with 
such Nations, as among whom the Use of Letters has been Introduced. 
I said above that to this we are Debtors for the useful History we are 
Furnish’d with: and I must observe on this Occasion that there are 
two ways in which those who have Oblig’d us with it, according to 

*Galileo. [Wolcott’s note.] 


682 Cea | The Puritans 


their different Genius and Humours, have Improv’d this Noble Inven- 
tion in Composing the Historys they have put into our Hands; that 
some therein have Confin’d themselves to Poetical Numbers and Measures, 
others not so restricting themselves, have Written in Prose, which last ' 
in latter Ages has been the more common way. That a considerable 
part, especially of our more Ancient History, is delivered to us in the 
former of these ways, is known to most that are not Strangers to Books, 
a considerable part of the Writings both of the Latin and Greek Poets 
what are they but Poemata Historica? Among the former, Ovid assures 
us his Book MzTAMORPHOSEON, in part, at least is no other; when in the 
beginning of it he Invokes the Gods in these Words, viz. 


Dij Cuptis (——). 
Adspirate mets, Primaque ab Origine Mundi 
Ad mea Perpetuum deducite Tempora carmen, 


In English thus rendred by one, 
Ye Gods Vouchsafe ( 


To further this mine Enterprise; 
and from the World begun, 

Grant that my Verse may to my time 
his Course directly run. 


And whoever has read it with understanding can’t but see its 

SOr i) 
... Its true he Writes in the Strain and Manner of others of his 
Tribe, who are wont generally to mingle a great deal of Mythology 
with the Truth; yet notwithstanding how easy is it for every Intelligent 
Reader to trace in him the Footsteps of the Sacred History, particularly 
in its accounts of the most Early ‘Times? 

§ 4. And may we not with equal ‘Truth say the same of Virgils 
AEneids? which seem to be no other than a Mythological History of the 
Affairs of A¢neas, or the Various Occurrences of his Life; to which 
Homer his Iliads with others from the Greeks might be added. Its Ob- 
served by some Learned Men, that this was the most Antient way of 
Writing, and that Prose is only an Imitation of Poetry, and that the 
Grecians in particular at their first delivery from Barbarism, had all 
their Phylosophy and Instruction from the Poets, such as Orpheus, 
Hesiod, Parmenides, Xenophanes, &c.—which seems to have Occasion’d 
those Lines of Horace, Cap. de Arte Poetica 


Literary Theory 683 


Fuit hec sapientia quondam 

Publica privatis Sacernere, sacra Profanis: 
Concubitu Prohibere Vago; dare jura Maritis: 
Oppida moliri: leges incidere ligno. 

Sic honor & nomen Divinis Vatibus atque 
Carminibus venit. 


The sum of which is this, vz. 

That in Old Time Poets were the Lights and Instructors of the World, 
and gave Laws to Men for their Conduct in their several Relations and 
Affairs of Life. | 

And Finally, To this seems to agree that of Cato in his Distichs, 


Si Deys est Animus nobis ut carmina dicunt, 
If God a Spirit be as Poets Teach, @e. 


§ 5. I have premis’d this in way of Apology for the manner in which 
this Worthy Person has given us the Ensuing History, in Composing which 
he has Diverted some of his Leisure Hours. And from hence tis evident 
he has for a Precedent some of the most Antient History, and has trod 
in the steps of many of the most Eminent Sages, and earliest Writers 
History gives us any Knowledge of, who have taken that same way to 
raise up Monuments to, and eternize the Names and Actions of their 
_ Admired Heroes. 

§ 6. Its undoubtedly true that as.the Minds of Men have a very 
different Cast, Disposition or Genius leading to & accomplishing for very 
differing Improvements, so generally speaking, those are the most 
Accomplished to make a Judgment on any Performance that have by 
Nature a Genius Leading to and Accomplishing for the same: And 
it being so, and withal there being none among the whole number of 
Mortals less furnish’d for a Performance of this Nature than my self, I 
may well be excus’d in Omitting the part of a Censor or Fudge upon it, 
further than to say that the Intelligent Reader will herein discern an 
uncommon Vigour of Mind, considerable Reading, and see reason to say, 
that herein we have a Specimen what good parts cultivated with a 
laudable Ambition to Improve in Knowledge will do, tho’ not Assisted 
with those Advantages of Education which some are favoured withal. 

§ 7. Some there are that have remark’t, That the Accomplish’d Poet 
and the Great Man are things seldom meeting together in one Person, 
Or that its rare those Powers of Mind that make the one, are found 
United with those that Constitute the other. And perhaps it may be a 
Truth which for the main holds true. For whereas what is properly 
call’d Wit, (which is no other than a ready Assemblage of Ideas, or a 


_ 


684 The Puritans 


putting those together with quickness & variety wherein there can be 
found any Congruity or Resemblance; or to speak more plain, an aptness 
at Metaphor and Allusion) is what, as I take it, makes the Accomplish’d 
Poet; exactness of Judgment, or Clearness of reason (which we commonly 
and truly say makes the Great Man) on the other hand lies in an Ability 
of Mind nicely to distinguish its Ideas the one from the other, where 
there is but the least difference thereby avoiding being misled by 
Similitude, and by Affinity to take one thing from another. And the 
process of the Mind in these two things being so contrary the one to the 
other, tis not strange if they are Powers not ever United in the same 
Subject, yet this notwithstanding, all must say, this is not a Remark 
that universally and without exception will hold true; but that how 
contrary and inconsistent soever the process of the mind in the exercise 
of these two Powers may seem to be, yet there are Instances wherein 
they are United in a Wonderful Measure: And many Men in whom 
we find a great deal of Pleasantry or Wit, are notwithstanding very 
Fudicious and Rational. And tho’ Modesty forbids me to say this of the 
Author, yet this I shall venture to say, viz. That whatever may be said 
in Commendation of this Performance by the Accomplished for a 
Judgment upon it; yet that there will not that Honour be done him 
thereby, as I conceive may with a great deal of Truth and Justice 
otherwise. 


COTTON MATHER 


[Undoubtedly the best essay “of poetry and style’’ written in the 
American colonies came from the pen of Cotton Mather (q.v., p. 162). 
In 1726 he published at Boston a handbook for divinity students, 
Manuductio ad Ministerium, wherein he discusses science, experimental 
philosophy, the classics, modern languages, and polite letters with 
remarkable acumen. It was reprinted in London in 1781, and again 
in 1789 under the title Dr. Cotton Mather’s Student and Preacher. The 
text of the chapter following is from the 1789 edition, pp. 110-120.] 


OF POETRY AND STYLE. 


OETRY, whereof we have now even an Antediluvian piece in our hands, 
has from the beginning been in such request, that I must needs 
recommend unto you some acquaintance with it. Though some have 
had a soul so unmusical, that they have decried all verse as being but 
a meer playing and fiddling upon words; all versifying, as if it were 
more unnatural than if we should chuse dancing instead of walking; 


Literary Theory : 685 


and rhyme, as if it were but a sort of morisce-dancing with bells: yet 
I cannot wish you a soul that shall be wholly unpoetical. An old 
Horace has left us an art of poetry, which you may do well to bestow 
a perusal on. And besides your lyric hours, I wish you may so far under- 
stand an epic poem, that the beauties of an Homer and a Virgil may be 
discerned with you. As to the moral part of Homer, it is true, and let 
me not be counted a Zoilus ‘ for saying so, that by first exhibiting their 
gods as no better than rogues, he set open the flood-gates for a pro- 
digious inundation of wickedness to break in upon the nations, and 
was one of the greatest apostles the devil ever had in the world. Among 
the rest that felt the ill impressions of this universal corrupter, (as men 
of the best sentiments have called him,) one was that overgrown robber, 
of execrable memory, whom we celebrate under the name of Alexander 
the Great; who by his continual admiring and studying of his Iliad, 
and by following that false model of heroic virtue set before him in his 
Achilles, became one of the worst of men, and at length inflated with 
the ridiculous pride of being himself a deity, exposed himself to all the 
scorn that could belong to a lunatic. And hence, notwithstanding the 
veneration which this idol has had, yet Plato banishes him out of a 
common-wealth, the welfare whereof he was concerned for. Neverthe- 
_ less, custom or conscience obliges him to bear testimonies unto many 
points of morality. And it is especially observable, that he commonly 
propounds prayer to heaven as a most necessary preface unto all im- 
portant enterprizes; and when the action comes on too suddenly for a 
more extended supplication, he yet will not let it come on without an 
ejaculation; and he never speaks of any supplication but he brings in a 
gracious answer to it. I have seen a travesteering high-flier, not much 
to our dishonour, scoff at Homer for this; as making his actors to be 
like those whom the English call dissenters... . 

.. . Nevertheless, it is observed, that the Pagans had no rules of 
manners that were more laudable and regular than what are to be 
found in him. And some have said, it is hardly possible seriously to 
read his works without being more disposed unto goodness, as well as 
being greatly entertained. To be sure, had Virgil writ before Plato, 
his works had not been any of the books prohibited. But then, this poet 
also has abundance of rare antiquities for us: and such things, as others 
besides a Servius, have imagined that they have instructed and obliged 
mankind, by employing all their days upon. Wherefore if his Aineid, 
(which though it were once near twenty times as big as he has left it, 
yet he has left it unfinished,) may not appear so valuable to you, that 
you may think twenty-seven verses of the part that is the most finished 


686 | The Puritans 


in it, worth one and twenty hundred pounds and odd money, yet his 
Georgics, which he put his last hand to, will furnish you with many 
things far from despicable. But after all, when I said, I was willing that 
the beauties of these two poets might become visible to your visive ° 
faculty in poetry, I did not mean that you should judge nothing to be 
admittable into an epic poem, which is not authorized by their ex- 
ample; but I perfectly concur with one who is inexpressibly more 
capable to be a judge of such a matter than I can be; that it is a false 
critic who, with a petulant air, will insult reason itself, if it presumes to 
oppose such authority. 

I proceed now to say, that if (under the guidance of a Vida?) you 
try your young wings now and then to see what flights you can make, 
at least for an epigram, it may a little sharpen your sense, and polish 
your style for more important performances; for this purpose you are 
now even overstocked with patterns, and Poemata passim,? you may, 
like Nazianzen,* all your days make a little recreation of poetry in the 
midst of your painful studies. Nevertheless, I cannot but advise you. 
Withhold thy throat from thirst. Be not so set upon poetry, as to be 
always poring on the passionate and measured pages. Let not what 
should be sauce, rather than food for you, engross all your application. 
Beware of a boundless and sickly appetite for the reading of the poems 
which now the rickety nation swarms withal; and let not the Circean 
cup intoxicate you. But especially preserve the chastity of your soul 
from the dangers you may incur, by a conversation with muses that 
are no better than harlots: among which are others besides Ovid’s 
Epistles, which for their tendency to excite and foment impure flames, 
and cast coals into your bosom, deserve rather to be thrown into the 
fire, than to be laid before the eye which a covenant should be made 
withal. Indeed, not merely for the impurities which they convey, but 
also on some other accounts; the powers of darkness have a library 
among us, whereof the poets have been the most numerous as well as 
the most venemous authors. Most of the modern plays, as well as the 
romances, and novels and fictions, which are a sort of poems, do be- 
long to the catalogue of this cursed library. The plays, I say, in which 
there are so many passages that have a tendency to overthrow all piety, 
that one, whose name is Bedford,*> has extracted near seven thousand 
instances of them, from the plays chiefly of but five years preceding; 
and says awfully upon them, They are national sins, and therefore call 
for national plagues; and if God should enter into judgment, all the 
blood in the nation would not be able to atone for them. How much 
do I wish that such pestilences, and indeed all those worse than 


Literary Theory | 687 


Egyptian toads, (the spawns of a Butler, a Brown, and a Ward,° and 
a company whose name is legion!) might never crawl into your cham- 
ber! The unclean spirits that come like frogs out of the mouth of the 
dragon, and of the beast; which go forth unto the young people of the 
earth, and expose them to be dealt withal as the enemies of God, in 
the battle of the great day of the Almighty. As for those wretched 
scribbles of madmen, my son, touch them not, taste them not, handle 
them not: thou wilt perish in the using of them. They are the dragons, 
whose contagious breath peoples the dark retreats of death. To much 
better purpose will an excellent but an envied Blackmore’ feast you, 
than thosé vile rhapsodies (of that Vinum demonum) ® which you will 
find always leave a taint upon your mind, and among other ill effects, 
will sensibly indispose you to converse with the holy oracles of God your 
Saviour. 

But there is, what I may rather call a parenthesis than a digression, 
which this may be not altogether an improper place for the intro- 
ducing of. 

There has been a deal of a-do about a style; so much, that I must 
offer you my sentiments upon it. There is a way of writing, wherein 
the author endeavours that the reader may have something to the 
- purpose in every paragraph. There is not only a vigour sensible in 
every sentence, but the paragraph is embellished with profitable refer- 
ences, even to something beyond what is directly spoken. Formal and 
painful quotations are not studied; yet all that could be learnt from 

them is insinuated. The writer pretends not unto reading, yet he could 
not have writ as he does if he had not read very much in his time; 
-and his composures are not only a cloth of gold, but also stuck with as 
many jewels as the gown of a Russian ambassador. This way of writing 
has been decried by many, and is at this day more than ever so, for 
the same reason that, in the old story, the grapes were decried, that 
they were not ripe. A lazy, ignorant, conceited set of authors, would 
persuade the whole tribe to lay aside that way of writing, for the same 
reason that one would have persuaded his brethren to part with the 
incumbrance of their bushy tails. But however fashion and humour may 
prevail, they must not think that the club at their coffee-house is all 
the world; but there will always be those, who will in this case be 
governed by indisputable reason: and who will think that the real 
excellency of a book will never lie in saying of little; that the less one 
has for his money in a book, it is really the more valuable for it: and 
the less one is instructed in a book, and the more superfluous margin 
and superficial harangue, and the less of substantial matter one has 


688 | | The Puritans 


in it, the more it is to be accounted of. And if a more massy way of 
writing be ever so much disgusted at this day, a better gust will come 
on, as will some other thing, que jam cecidere.° In the mean time, nothing 
appears to me more impertinent and ridiculous than the modern way | 
(I cannot say, rule; for they have none!) of criticising. The blades that 
set up for critics, I know not who constituted or commissioned them!— 
they appear to me, for the most part, as contemptible as they are a 
supercilious generation. For indeed no two of them have the same 
stile; and they are as intolerably cross- -grained, and severe in their 
censures upon one another, as they are upon the rest of mankind. 
But while each of them, conceitedly enough, sets up for the standard 
of perfection, we are entirely at a loss which fire to follow. Nor can 
you easily find any one thing wherein they agree for their stile, except 
perhaps a perpetual care to give us jejune and empty pages, without 
such touches of erudition (to speak in the stile of an ingenious traveller) 
as may make the discourses less tedious, and more enriching to the 
mind of him that peruses them. There is much talk of a florid. stile 
obtaining among the pens that are most in vogue; but how often would 
it puzzle one, even with the best glasses, to find the flowers! And if 
they were to be chastised for it, it would be with much the same kind 
of justice as Jerom was, for being a Ciceronian.!° After all, every man 
will have his own stile, which will distinguish him as much as his gait: 
and if you can attain to that which I have newly described, but always 
writing so as to give an easy conveyance unto your ideas, I would not 
have you by any scourging be driven out of your gait; but if you must 
- confess a fault in it, make a confession like that of the lad unto his 
father while he was beating him for his versifying. 

However, since every man will have his own stile, I would pray 
that we may learn to treat one another with mutual civilities and conde- 
scensions, and handsomely indulge one another in this as gentlemen do 
in other matters. 

I wonder what ails people that they cannot let Cicero write in the 
stile of Cicero, and Seneca write in the (much other!) stile of Seneca; 
and own that both may please in their:several ways.—But I will freely 
tell you, what has made me consider the humourists that set up for 
critics upon stile as the most unregardable set of mortals in the world, 
is this! Far more illustrious critics than any of those to whom I am now 
bidding defiance, and no less men than your Erasmus’s and your Gro- 
tius’s, have taxed the Greek stile of the New Testament with I know 
not what solecisms and barbarisms; and how many learned folks have 
obsequiously run away with the notion! whereas it is an ignorant and 


Literary Theory 689 


an insolent whimsey which they have been guilty of. It may be (and 
particularly by an ingenious Blackwall,"! it has been) demonstrated, 
that the gentlemen are mistaken in every one of their pretended in- 
stances; all the unquestionable classics may be brought in to convince 
them of their mistakes. Those glorious oracles are as pure Greek as 
ever was written in the world; and so correct, so noble, so sublime is 
their stile, that never any thing under the cope of Heaven, but the Old 
Testament, has equalled it. 


MATHER BYLES 


[By 1745 the literary essay was a commonplace. A variety of English 
periodicals had found an increasingly large circle of readers ever since 
The Tatler had appeared thirty-six years before. English literary maga- 
zines had circulated in the colonies for many years, but not until 1741 
did American publishers themselves initiate such productions. In that 
year Benjamin Franklin and Andrew Bradford each ventured periodi- 
cals in Philadelphia, largely extracts from British counterparts, or from 
newspapers and recent books. Both attempts proved short-lived. In 
1743 Joshua Gridley (1702-1767) published The American Magazine 
and FNistorical Chronicle in Boston. It appeared monthly for three years. 
Though most of its essays were extracted from English periodicals, it 
occasionally gave a place to local productions. In January 1745 
(pp. 1-4) appeared an essay in light vein on “the Bombastick and the 
Grubstreet”’ style. It is signed “‘L,”’ and is identified by Lyon N. Richard- 
son (A History of Early American Magazines, 1741-1789, New York, 1931, 
p. 54, note) as the work of Mather Byles (q.v., p. 662).] 


BOMBASTIC AND GRUBSTREET STYLE: A SATIRE. 


As one great Design of many of the Entertainments in our Magazine, 
is to cultivate polite Writing, and form and embellish the Style of 
our ingenious Countrymen: So, Instead of a Preface to this Volume, 
we ask Leave to give the following Piece of Criticism. 

Clamorem immensum tollit, quo pontus et omnes 


Intremuere unda, penitusque exterrita tellus 
Italie, curvisque immugiut Attna cavernis. Virg. Aineid.! 


HERE have been innumerable Authors, from Aristotle’s Rhetorick to 
Longinus’s Treatise of the Sublime, and from thence down to the 
Compiler of our modern Horn-book, who have written Introductions 
to the Art of Polite Writing. Every one that can just distinguish his 


690 | The Puritans 


Twenty Four Letters sets up for a Judge of it; as all who are able to 
flourish a Goose’s Quill, pretend to be Masters of that Secret. The 
noblest Productions have given Birth to many a supercillious Caveller; 
Criticks of all Sizes and Dimensions have nibled round the divinest 
Pages; and Ignorance and Conceit have endeavoured to shake down 
the most beautiful Structures, in order to build themselves a Reputa- 
tion out of the Ruins. A superiour Genius, though he seems to kindle 
a wide Horizon of Light all about him, and is admired by the under- 
standing Part of Mankind, yet he must expect to be the Occasion of a 
great many Absurdities, with which the unknowing and envious will 
strive to satyrize him: As the Sun scatters Day through a whole Frame 
of Worlds, but yet may, in some particular Spots, raise a Fog, or hatch 
a Nest of Vermin. To conclude, the Science of correct Writing having 
been a Subject exhausted by so many able Hands, and seeing all the 
Rabble of Scriblers are such indisputable Proficients in it; not to men- 
tion my own Incapacity for such an Undertaking; I shall not be so 
vain as to offer my Thoughts upon it: But I shall apply my Labours 
at this Time, to an Ornament of a contrary Nature, which is a ‘Theme 
intirely New,-Namely, The Art of writing Incorrectly. 

This, I take it, is a Work that I am excellently well qualified for, and 
~ I doubt not but to convince the World that I am a perfect Master of my 
Subject. In the Prosecution of this useful Design, I shall show the Excel- 
lency of Incorrect Writing in general; I shall lay open the several 
Artifices, by which a Man of competent Abilities, may, with proper 
Application, attain to a tolerable Degree of Perfection in it; I shall 
produce pertinent Examples from Writers of undoubted Eminence in 
that improving Science: And in the last place, I may possibly address 
the World with a very pathetick Exhortation, to follow the Instructions 
which I shall give them, in order to accomplish themselves in the Art 
of Incorrect Writing. In short, I intend to entertain the Publick, with 
a regular Criticism upon Nonsense. 

Authors of this Kind may be divided into two Classes, generally 
known under the Denomination of the Bombastick and the Grubstreet. 
The latter of these Characters is easily attained, provided a Man can 
but keep himself from thinking, and yet so contrive Matters, as to let 
his Pen run along unmolested over a Sheet of White Paper, and drop 
a convenient Quantity of Words, at proper Intervals on it. A Person 
who is acquainted with this Secret, may, with great Facility and Com- 
posure of Mind, furnish himself with a comfortable Stock of Reputation, 
as often as he finds it requisite. This he might do, as without any Ruffle 
to his own Tranquility, so neither would it prove the least Disturbance 


Literary Theory baa se: 


to his Readers: For while he flow’d along with that unmeaning Softness, 
every one within the Warble of his Accents would undoubtedly dissolve 
away in a supine Indolence, and, (as a late Musical Author of this 
Species has very tenderly expressed it) be hush’d into lulling Dreams. 

I shall, perhaps, dedicate some future Essay to the Incouragement of 
these worthy Gentlemen, but at this Time I intend to consider those 
my ingenious Fellow-Labourers, who deviate into the contrary Ex- 
tream; I mean the Admirers of Bombast and Fustian. 

These Writers, to avoid the Imputation of low and flat, blow up 
every Subject they take in Hand beyond its natural Dimensions; and 
nothing will please them that is not big and boisterous, wild and 
irregular. They wonderfully delight in Noise and Clamour; a Rattle 
of Words, and an Extravagance of Imagination, they look upon as the 
Perfection of Rhetorick; and are Transported beyond themselves, at 
the Tumult and Confusion that bellows through a Hurricane of Non- 
sense. In short, that which Men of this Turn applaud as the Master- 
piece of good Writing, differs from the true Sublime, as a Boy’s artificial 
Kite, wadling among the Clouds at the End of a Skein of Pack-thread, 
does from the natural Flight of an Eagle, towering with steddy Pinions 
up the Sky, and bearing full upon the Sun. 

If this false Taste prevails amongst us, we shall quickly prove such a 
Generation of Blusterers, that our Country will resemble the Cave of 
4folus, where the Winds make their general Rendezvous, and battel 
and clash together in an eternal Din and Uproar. For my own Part, I 
look upon it to be the Duty of every one, as far as in him lies, to lend 
his Assistance in banking out this Inundation of Sound, which, if it 
finds a clear Passage, will not fail to overwhelm us in a Deluge of Folly 
and Absurdity. 

A Friend of mine who writes in this exorbitant Style, Mr. Richard 
Stentor by Name, shall be the Hero of the present Essay. Mr. Stentor as 
to his exterior Figure, is one of the portliest Mortals that have flourished 
in our World, since Goliah over-top’d the Philistian Army. He is mod- 
erately speaking, Nine Foot high, and Four in Diameter. His Voice is 
not unlike the Roar and Rapidity of a Torrent foaming down a 
Mountain, and reverberated amongst the neighbouring Rocks. The 
Hurry of Vociferation with which he drives along in the Heat of an 
Argument, imitates the Thunder of a Cart-load of Stones poured out 
upon a Pavement. He was educated in a Ship of War, and one would . 
imagine he learnt the Notes of his Gamut, from the various Whistlings 
of a Tempest thro’ the Rigging of his Vessel. I was once so unadvised 
as to offer my Dissent from one of his Opinions; but I had better have 


692 | The Puritans 


held my Tongue: He turned upon me, and rung me such a Peal of 
Eloquence, that had I not made off with the greatest Precipitation, 
would have gone near to have stun’d, and made me deaf all my Days. 
Nay, I have cause to think my Hearing has been never the better for - 
it to this Moment. 

This is a short Description of his external Accomplishments; as to the 
» Qualifications of his Mind, they will be best perceived, by a Transcript 
I shall here make, from an Oration he formerly composed in Praise of 
Beacon Hill. I must inform my Readers, that it was conceived as he 
stood upon the Summit of that little Mount, one Training-Day, when, 
as he has since owned to me, the Drums and Musquets assisted his 
Inspiration, and augmented and deepend the Rumbling of his Periods. 
It begins in the following Manner— 


THE gloriously-transcendent, and highly-exalted Precipice, from which the 
sonorous Accents of my Lungs resound with repeated Echoes, is so pompous, 
magnificent, illustrious, and loftily-towering, that, as I twirle around my Arm 
with the artful Flourish of an Orator, I seem to feel my Knucles rebound from 
the blew Vault of Heaven, which just arches over my Head. I stand upon an 
amazing Eminence that heaves itself up, on both sides steep and stupendous! 
high and horrendous! The spiry Teneriffe, the unshaken Atlas, or Olympus 
divine and celestial, when compared to this prodigious Mountain, sink to Sands, 
and dwindle to Atoms. It 1s deep-rooted in its ever-during Foundations, firm as 
the Earth, lasting as the Sun, tmmoveable as the Pillars of Nature! I behold 
from this awful and astonishing Scituation, the concave Expanse of uncreated 
Space, stretch itself above: and the Land and Ocean below, spreading an In- 
finitude of Extension all about me. But what daring Tropes and flaming Meta- 
phores shall I select, O aspiring Beacon! to celebrate Thee with a suitable 
Grandeur, or exalt thee to a becoming Dignity? How does it shoot up its in- 
conceivable Pinnacle into the superior Regions, and blend itself with the cerulian 
circum-ambient Atther! It mocks the fiercest Efforts of the most piercing Sight, 
to reach to its impenetrable Sublimities. It looks down upon the diminish’d 
Spheres; the fixt Stars twinkle at an immeasurable Distance beneath it; while 
the Planets roll away, unperceived, in a vast, a fathomless Profound! ***** 


By this little Quotation from Mr. Stentor’s Panegyrick on Beacon 
Hill, my Reader will in some Measure be able to judge of his Manner 
of thinking, and expressing himself. It appears plainly that he heaps 
his Subject with improper and foreign Thoughts; that he strains those 
Thoughts into the most unnatural and ridiculous Distortions; and, last 
of all, that he clouds them with so many needless supernumerary Epi- 
thets, as to fling the whole Piece into this unaccountable Huddle of 
Impertinence and Inconsistency. Richard is mighty fond of great sound- 
ing Words, and, let his Topick be what it will, he has perpetual Re- 


—_—--- -~- 


Literary Theory | 698 


course to them upon all Emergencies. He once took it in his Head 
to be in Love, and wrote a Poem to his Mistress on that delicate Pas- 
sion: But instead of the gentle Flow of Harmony which any one would 


reasonably have expected, and which is indeed essential to Composi- 


tions of that Kind, his Numbers stalked along as sturdy and outragious 
as in any other of his Performances. I my self counted in Fifty Six 
Lines of it, three Celestials, eight Immortals, eleven Unboundeds, six Ever- 
lastings, four Eternities, and thirteen Infinites; Besides Bellowings, Ravings, 
Yellings, Horrors, Terribles, Rackets, Hubbubs, and Clutterings, without 
Number. But what pleased me the most of any of my Friend’s Compo- 
sitions, was, A Poetical Description of a Game at Push-pin. Sure, thought I, 
when I read the Title, there can be nothing very loud and impetuous 
upon so trivial a Matter as This. How I was surprized out of my mis- 
take, my Reader will in some Measure conceive, when he understands 
that the first Distich of the Poem runs thus, 


Rage, fire, and fury in my bosom roll, 
And all the gods rush headlong on my soul. 


He then proceeded to compare the Pins to two Comets, whose Heads, 
as he expressed it, enlightned the boundless Desarts of the Skies with a 
bloody Glare, and threw behind them the ruddy Volumes of their 
tremendous Trains, into the tractless Wastes of Immensity. When the 
Pins met in the Progress of the Game, for a Similitude, he supposed the 
two Continents to be tossed from their Foundations, and encounter, 
with a direful Concussion, in the midst of the briny Atlantick: or rather, 
says he, as if two Systems of Worlds, Suns, Planets and all, should be 
hurled resistless one against another, and dash a horrible Chaos, from 
the general Ruins of Matter, and Wrecks of a whole Universe. He con- 
cluded the Poem with the following Lines, which I look upon to be the 
most finished Pattern of this Sort of Productions, that I have any where 
met with; whether I consider, the Uncouthness of the Language, the 
Ruggedness of the Style, or the Disproportion and Extravagance of the 
Images. Speaking of the Pins he says, 


The Bars of Brass, harsh-crashing, loud resound, 
And jarring discords rend th’ astonish'd ground. 
So when aloft dire hurricanes arise, 

And with horrendous shatterings burst the skies, 
Dread ghastly terrors drive along in crowds, 

And hideous thunder howls amongst the clouds; 
Eternal whirlwinds on the ocean roar, 

Infinite earth-quakes rock the bounding shore. 


# 


694 ath he Pinttans 


I shall conclude these Remarks upon Bombast, with an Observation 
which I ought in Justice to make, in favour of those who fall into it; 
viz. That no Person can be a considerable Proficient this way, who has not a 


good Share of natural Powers and Abilities. Hence, when we see a Young . 


Man delivering himself in this warm Manner, he is to be regarded as 
a good Genius run wild, for want of Cultivation from Study, and the 
Rules of Art: And it follows, that should such a juvenile Writer, take 
proper Methods to improve his Mind, in innuring himself to a close 
Way of Reasoning, and by conversing with the best Authors, however 
defective he might be in this Particular at first, he would in the End 
make a chaste and excellent Writer. Thus it happened to the immortal 
Virgil, whose divine A‘neid once shot itself into so great a Luxuriance, 
as to be near twenty Times as Large as it appears at this Day. As his 
Imagination cooled by Years, and his Judgment ripened, and hasted 
on to Maturity, his Style dropped the false Glare of Ornaments, and 
shone with an equal Purity and Elegance; His Thoughts learned to 
proportion themselves to his Subject, and cast themselves into that 
exact Symmetry of Arrangement and Disposition, in which they now 
charm us; And, in a word, a new Beauty began to dawn in every Line 
of that exquisite Work which consecrates his deathless Fame to the 
Admiration of all Posterity. 


Lt 


5 Chapter VIII 


EDUCATION? 


~ 


VEN as the Puritans, “‘dreading to leave an illiterate Ministry to 
E the Churches,” ? demanded that their clergy be well trained, so 
they expected the laity should receive at least enough instruction to 
understand the ministers’ exposition of doctrine. To that end Massa- 
chusetts passed an Act in 1647, which was adopted by Connecticut 
three years later, requiring that every town of one hundred families 
or more should provide free common and grammar school instruction. 
The provision was designed to give children enough training to enable 
them to read, whether the teaching were conducted privately or in pub- 
lic school, and the cost was met by funds taken from the taxes or raised 
by tuition. The Puritans preserved in secondary education a humanistic 
standard—a classical training—which in England was being sup- 
planted by courses with a more utilitarian end in view; ‘and it is note- 
worthy that they required a longer elementary schooling than the 
Anglicans. The higher education of the Puritans was erected on the 
splendid foundation of learning that had obtained in the Church since 
the Middle Ages,—one to which Renaissance and Reformation tradi- 
tions had brought renewed vitality. It is well, nevertheless, to make 
two points clear at the start. One is that in no sense did the Puritans 
foster church schools; the other is that of all English peoples those with 
Puritan leanings were most concerned for proper education. 

No phase of Puritan manners is more difficult to reconstruct than 
that which traces the method, aims, discipline, curriculum, and sup- 
port of the elementary schools. From the very first, we may be sure, 
something was done to provide common schools, though the records 
are meager. Until a formal provision was made, we imagine that the 
child was taught at home by his parents or by the older children. 
Cotton Mather’s “Special Points’? relating to the education of his 
children were probably not substantially different from those of all 
intelligent parents (see p. 724). The child was first introduced to his 
studies by way of the “‘reading-schools’’—later known as dame schools, 
since they were conducted by women. Here boys and girls together as a 

1 This account is frequently indebted to Robert F. Seybolt, The Public Schools of 
Colonial Boston (Cambridge, 1935); idem, ‘“The Private Schools of Seventeenth- 
Century Boston,” New England Quarterly, VIII (1935), 418-424; and chapters II-IV 
of Samuel E. Morison, The Puritan Pronaos (New York, 1936), wherein is briefly 


digested much that the author’s Harvard History has already presented in detail. 
2 New Englands First Fruits, p. 12. 


695 


696 The Puritans 


group were taught spelling, reading, writing, and ciphering. At this 
stage also—that is, while they were not over five years old—girls were 
started in needlework. If the child were moderately apt, he was ad- 
vanced to the “‘writing-schools,”” kept by a man, where he was prepared 
for the grammar schools at the age of seven or eight. Such advancement 
depended, however, upon his capacity to wrestle with Latin and Greek, 
the only subjects taught in the secondary schools; if he lacked the 
ability, his formal education was over. The reading-schools, as the 
name indicates, barely carried children beyond the most rudimentary 
disciplines:—writing and ciphering came later. It is quite possible 
that many who learned to read were never taught to write, and that 
therefore such literacy data as are based upon writing ability do not 
tell the whole story. 

The child began his reading with that tiMechadoned device, the 
hornbook—a printed alphabet list of one syllable words, together with 
the Lord’s Prayer, held in a wooded frame, the whole covered by a 
sheet of horn. He was advanced next to a spelling book, and thence to 
a primer and a catechism. “‘In Adam’s Fall/ We sinned all’’ begins that 
most famous of American readers, The New England Primer or Milk 
for Babes, of which it is estimated that seven million copies were printed 
before 1840. If the first issue was printed, as we have reason to think, 
in 1683, we can readily understand the hard usage to which the primers 
were put, when we consider that the earliest known copy dates only 
from 1727, and that the total number surviving is very small. 

All available records yield but scant information regarding the num- 
ber of private schools or their curriculum before 1700. Boys’ education 
could be continued in the free grammar schools, but the training of 
girls must either stop after their reading-school days were over, or be 
conducted privately. During the eighteenth century, records show that 
such private school instruction included for girls not only the rudiments, 
but instruction in English diction and grammar, and in “‘polite ac- 
complishments”—French, vocal and instrumental music, dancing, 
needlework, painting, and drawing. For boys, there was also training 
in bookkeeping, shorthand, history, dancing, music and horsemanship; 
and those who could not spare time during the day might attend eve- 
ning schools. Whether such instruction was offered in or about Boston 
during the seventeenth century cannot be definitely stated, though the 
subjects listed are such that it would not be reasonable to think they 
were introduced only after the turn of the century. 7 

One of the oldest secondary or grammar schools in the country, 
and the only one in Boston until 1713, was the “Free Grammar School,” 


Education 697 


better known as the Boston Latin School, opened in 1635. Here in- 
numerable generations have been prepared for college, and here, after 
1709, they were annually exhibited on a certain day before the clergy 
and other notables:—a group of sixty who attended school exercises 
in a body to pronounce upon the excellence of the year’s accomplish- 
ments. The schoolmaster in Boston and elsewhere was a man of some 
standing. He was at times exempt from poll and estate taxes, his house 
was furnished him by the town, his salary was higher than most of the 
local officials, and upon retirement he might be granted a pension or 
allowance. But such provisions were not always forthcoming, and a 
master’s tenure was usually brief; he remained as schoolmaster in a 
town only while he awaited a more lucrative call to some near-by pul- 
pit. The most famous colonial schoolmaster was Ezekiel Cheever, who 
taught continuously in and about Boston for seventy years. The venera- 
tion in which he was held is charmingly told by Cotton Mather in 
Corderius Americanus, and the picture therein sketched of master and 
pupils is one that deserves to be remembered (see p. 722). 

As we suggested earlier, grammar schools were designed only for 
the training of boys, and such of them as could handle Latin and 
Greek. To enter, a student must be at least seven years of age and be 
able to read. The requirements satisfied, the student faced a seven- 
years’ curriculum which, like that of the Elizabethan grammar schools, 
was exclusively devoted to a study of the classics, with no place for 
modern language, history, or science. The purpose was humanistic: 
to achieve a mastery of the classics and a wide knowledge of the best 
authors in those tongues. Thus the student was provided with a general 
education and incidentally fitted for college, though probably less 
than half of any one graduating class went further with his educa- 
tion. It is noticeable that the religious element was relatively small. 
The student doubtless went to church on Sunday and attended the . 
Thursday “‘lecture,’’ even as his Anglican cousin was expected to do, 
but there was no law whereby the ministers’ approval of teachers or 
curriculum was required until 1701, and evidently then simply to as- 
sure the town of sufficiently high teaching standards. 

The only seventeenth-century grammar school curriculum which has 
come down to us is that of the Boston Latin School, which may perhaps 
serve as typical. The entering students were taught their Latin accidence 
and grammar. When their vocabulary was sufficient and the rudiments 
mastered, they passed on to Aesop’s Fables. By their fourth year they 
were reading Erasmus’s Colloquies and undertaking Greek. At the 
same time they were supposed to be ready for Ovid’s de Tristibus and 


698 3 The Puritans 


- 


Metamorphosis, and Cicero’s Letters. By the end of the sixth year they 
would have completed Cicero’s de Offictis, and the Aeneid. In their 
seventh and final year, with the language difficulties fairly mastered, 
they could approach classic literature with some ease: more Cicero, 
and Vergil, then Horace, Juvenal, Persius, Isocrates, Hesiod, and the 
New Testament. They composed Latin verse, and studied rhetoric and 
Roman history and antiquities. It is possible that some especially: 
capable may have begun a study of Hebrew. Thus we see that the 
grammar-school boy was subjected to a stiff but none the less broaden- 
ing course in the classics, and that he was well prepared to enter 
college if he satisfactorily concluded his seven years of preparation. 

It is clear that religious training in the Puritan colonies was vastly 
important in the educational scheme, even though the curriculum and 
administration of the schools were completely free from church inter- 
ference. All knowledge was, of course, from God, and all training 
pursued that His ways might be more clearly manifested:—it was a 
point of view common to educational systems of Europe, and in no 
way peculiar to Puritanism. Such an approach continued to be true 
for the boy who went on to college. Actually no more than half of all 
Harvard graduates during the seventeenth century became ministers." 
Those intent upon professional theology remained in residence after 
they had been granted their Bachelor of Arts degree to study further, 
and thereby obtain such specialized learning as would qualify them 
for the pulpit; only by such application could they secure the degree 
of Master of Arts. 

Provision was made for higher education almost as soon as grammar 
schools were established. Harvard College was founded by the. Massa- 
chusetts Legislature—the General Court—in October, 1636, and the 
purpose expressed in the Charter of 1650 was ‘“The aduancement and 
_education of youth in all manner of good literature Artes and Sciences” 
—that is, in “‘polite letters” and the seven arts and the three philoso- 
phies of the Middle Ages: Grammar, Logic, Rhetoric, Arithmetic, 
Geometry, Astronomy; Metaphysics, Ethics, and Natural Science. It 
was actually a course in the mediaeval trivium and quadrivium with 
music omitted, geometry slighted, the philosophies stressed, with the 
Renaissance subjects, history, Greek, and Hebrew added. Not only 
was Hebrew considered the foundation for an exact understanding of 
the Old Testament, but it was then as later thought to be the mother 
of languages; a knowledge of it therefore was believed to advance 
learning in the best sense. 

1 See Samuel E. Morison, Harvard College in the Seventeenth Century, p. 562. 


Haeation 699 


Students entered as freshmen and remained four years, living much 
as students do today, in a dormitory with a roommate, under the 
supervision of tutors who shared their commons and gave them instruc- 
tion. For admission to the freshman class the student must be inter- 
viewed by the President or by a tutor under the President’s eye. If 
the interview, conducted in Latin, terminated satisfactorily, the boy 
was then assigned a subject for a theme; if the composition won presi- 
dential approval, the boy was entered as a member of the freshman 
class. The pursuit of higher education then as now often depended 
upon the ability of a family to raise money enough to pay for it. Tuition 
and board, which totaled in mid-seventeenth century about £50 to 
£75 for the four years, might be paid in produce, for the college ran 
the commons. His financial obligations discharged, the student, with 
his classmates, was put in charge of one of the two or three tutors, who 
acted as instructor in all subjects and as “class officer”’ for that group 
throughout their four years. 

The curriculum at some points was a continuation of the work 
undertaken in grammar school, although broadened and deepened. 
Hesiod was read, as well as Sophocles, Euripides, Homer, and Theoc- 
ritus. The boy was expected to dispute syllogistically at stated intervals, 
and at the end of his senior year he must demonstrate his ability to 
defend a thesis: some philosophical problem which would bring to bear 
all the arts of persuasion, logic, and rhetoric which he had studied. 
This final exercise took place at Commencement, and like all other 
elements of college life—recitations, reports, and even informal con- 
versations—must be delivered in Latin. The training that the colonial 
college offered, both formally in the classroom and informally in close 
association with the tutors, was liberal in the true sense of the term— 
the education of gentlemen. Whoever fears that the Puritan boy had 
no time to play or lacked red blood must look more closely at the 
record, for in his free moments we find him copying or imitating the 
amorous verses of Spenser, Sidney, or Herrick; we see him too ccn- 
suming much beef, bread, and-_beer; and we wonder how many fathers 
must have taken their sons into conference to inquire why the bill for 
broken window-glass mounted so high. 

In its own day President Chauncy’s commencement address in 1655 
(see p. 705) was no doubt considered sufficient answer to those who 
thought that the provincial college should serve only the church by 
training men for the ministry; and the letter of Leonard Hoar to his 
freshman nephew (see p. 708), written six years later, is warrant enough 
that a study of the cultural past alone was not thought to advance 


700 | | The Puritans 


learning—that a study of the sciences must be cultivated. When at 
the end of the century President Mather addressed the undergraduates, 
urging them to search for truth even though the way led through new 
and disturbing fields of thought (see p. 721), he was enunciating the 
central theme of Puritan scholarship. Such statements justify the con- 
clusion that in matters of education the Puritans were leaders not 
reactionaries, as resolute as they were sincere. 


NEW ENGLANDS FIRST FRUITS 


[No other colonizers in the English-speaking world have provided 
for higher education so soon upon their arrival as those in Massachusetts 
Bay. In October, 1636, the General Court voted £400 “towards a 
schoale or colledge,’’ and by 1642 the first class of nine members was 
graduated from Harvard College. In the following year a twenty-six- 
page tract was published in London: New Englands First Fruits. It 
pictured attractively the natural resources, the benefits of climate, the 
opportunities for converting the heathen, and it made a special point 
of describing the thriving young college. The promoters of New Eng- 
land took this way to ask for money, and at the same time spread 
propaganda abroad to counter that which was “‘selling’’? the West 
Indies. 

The material for the part “In respect of the Colledge, and the pro- 
ceedings of Learning therein”’ was very likely supplied by Henry Dunster 
(1609-1659), the young minister who, emigrating in 1640, served the 
college as President for fourteen years. Its list of rules by which the 
students lived and its outline of curriculum furnishes important data 
about the Puritan educational ideal. 

See Worthington C. Ford, ‘“The Authorship of ‘New Englands First 
Fruits,’’’ Publications of the Massachusetts Historical Society, XLII (1909), 
259-266. The tract has twice been reprinted in full: Sabin Reprints, 
Quarto series, No. vii (New York, 1865); Samuel E. Morison, The 
Founding of Harvard College (Cambridge, 1935), Appendix D (where it is 
given an accurate line-for-line and word-for-word transcription). See 
further, ibid., pp. 304, 305. The best brief summary of ““The Beginnings 
of Higher Education” in America is in Samuel E. Morison, The Puritan 
Pronaos (New York, 1936), chapter II. 

The text which follows is from a copy of the 1643 edition in the 
New York Public Library, pp. 12—16.] 


Education | 701 


NEW ENGLANDS FIRST FRUITS: 


2. IN RESPECT OF THE COLLEDGE, AND THE PROCEEDINGS 
OF LEARNING THEREIN. 


1. After God had carried us safe to New-England, and wee had 
builded our houses, provided necessaries for our liveli-hood, rear’d 
convenient places for Gods worship, and setled the Civill Government: 
One of the next things we longed for, and looked after was to advance 
Learning and perpetuate it to Posterity; dreading to leave an illiterate 
Ministery to the Churches, when our present Ministers shall lie in the 
Dust. And as wee were thinking and consulting how to effect this great 
Work; it pleased God to stir up the heart of one Mr. Harvard (a godly 
Gentleman, and a lover of Learning, there living amongst us) to give 
the one halfe of his Estate (it being in all about 1700. 1.) towards the 
erecting of a Colledge, and all his Library: after him another gave 
300. |. others after them cast in more, and the publique hand of the 
State added the rest: the Colledge was, by common consent, appointed 
to be at Cambridge, (a place very pleasant and accommodate) and is 
called (according to the name of the first founder) Harvard Colledge. 

The Edifice is very faire and comely within and without, having in 
it a spacious Hall; (where they daily meet at Common Lectures) 
Exercises, and a large Library with some Bookes to it, the gifts of 
diverse of our friends, their Chambers and studies also fitted for, and 
possessed by the Students, and all other roomes of Office necessary 
and convenient, with all needfull Offices thereto belonging: And by 
the side of the Colledge a faire Grammar Schoole, for the training up 
of young Schollars, and fitting of them for Academicall Learning, that 
still as they are judged ripe, they may be received into the Colledge 
of this Schoole: Master Corlet is the Mr., who hath very well approved 
himselfe for his abilities, dexterity and painfulnesse, in teaching and 
education of the youth under him.! 

Over the Colledge is master Dunster placed, as President, a learned 
conscionable and industrious man, who hath so trained up, his Pupills 
in the tongues and Arts,'and so seasoned them with the principles of 
Divinity and Christianity, that we have to our great comfort, (and in 
truth) beyond our hopes, beheld their progresse in Learning and god- 
linesse also; the former of these hath appeared in their publique 
declamations in Latine and Greeke, and Disputations Logicall and Philo- 
sophicall, which they have beene wonted (besides their ordinary Exer- 
cises in the Colledge-Hall) in the audience of the Magistrates, Ministers, 
and other Schollars, for the probation of their growth in Learning, 


702 The Puritans 


upon set dayes, constantly once every moneth to make and uphold: 
The latter hath been manifested in sundry of them by the savoury 
breathings of their Spirits in their godly conversation. Insomuch that 
we are confident, if these early blossomes may be cherished and 
warmed with the influence of the friends of Learning and lovers of this 
pious worke, they will by the help of God,.come to happy maturity 
in a short time. 

Over the Colledge are twelve Overseers chosen by the generall 
Court, six of them are of the Magistrates, the other six of the Ministers, 
who are to promote the best good of it, and (having a power of influence 
into all persons in it) are to see that every one be diligent and proficient 
in his proper place. 


2. Rules, and Precepts that are observed in the Colledge. 


1. When any Schollar is able to understand Tully,? or such like 
classical Latine Author extempore, and make and speake true Latine 
in Verse and Prose, suo ut aiunt Marte; 3 And decline perfectly the Para- 
digm’s of Nounes and Verbes in the Greek tongue: Let him then and 
not before be capable of admission into the Colledge. 

2. Let every Student be plainly instructed, and earnestly pressed 
to consider well, the maine end of his life and studies is, to know God 
and Iesus Christ which is eternall life, Joh. 17. 3. and therefore to lay 
Christ in the bottome, as the only foundation of all sound knowledge 
and Learning. | 

And seeing the Lord only giveth wisedome, Let every one seriously 
set himselfe by prayer in secret to seeke it of him Prov 2, 3. 

3. Every one shall so exercise himselfe in reading the Scriptures 
twice a day, that he shall be ready to give such an account of his pro- 
ficiency therein, both in Theoretticall observations of the Language, and 
Logick, and in Practicall and spirituall truths, as his Tutor shall require, 
according to his ability; seeing the entrance of the word giveth light, it 
giveth understanding to the simple, Psalm. 119. 130. 

4. That they eshewing all profanation of Gods Name, Attributes, 
Word, Ordinances and times of Worship, doe studie with good con- 
science, carefully to retaine God, and the love of his truth in their 
mindes, else let them know, that (notwithstanding their Learning) 
God may give them up ?o strong delusions, and in the end to a reprobate 
minde, 2 Thes. 2. 11, 12. Rom. 1. 28. 

5. That they studiously redeeme the time; observe the generall 
houres appointed for all the Students, and the speciall houres for their 
owne Classes: and then diligently attend the Lectures, without any 


Education 703 


disturbance by word or gesture. And if in anything they doubt, they 
shall enquire, as of their fellowes, so, (in case of Non satisfaction) mod- 
estly of their Tutors. 

6. None shall under any pretence whatsoever, frequent the company 
and society of such men as lead an unfit, and dissolute life. 

Nor shall any without his Tutors leave, or (in his absence) the call 
of Parents or Guardians, goe abroad to other Townes. 

7. Every Schollar shall be present in his Tutors chamber at the 
7th. houre in the morning, immediately after the sound of the Bell, 
at his opening the Scripture and prayer, so also at the 5th. houre at 
night, and then give account of his owne private reading, as aforesaid 
in Particular the third, and constantly attend Lectures in the Hall at 
the houres appointed? But if any (without necessary impediment) shall 
absent himself from prayer or Lectures, he shall bee lyable to Admoni- 
tion, if he offend above once a weeke. 

8. If any Schollar shall be found to transgresse any of the Lawes 
of God, or the Schoole, after twice Admonition, he shall be lyable, 
if not adultus, to correction, if adultus, his name shall be given up to 
the Overseers of the Colledge, that he may bee admonished at the 
publick monethly Act. 


3. The times and order of their Studies, unlesse experience shall 
shew cause to alter. 
The second and third day of the weeke, read Lectures, as followeth. 
To the first yeare at 8th. of the clock in the morning Logick, the 
first three quarters, Physicks the last quarter. 
To the second yeare, at the gth. houre, Ethicks and Politicks, at con- 
venient distances of time. 
To the third yeare at the roth. Arithmetick and Geometry, the three 
first quarters, Astronomy the last. 
Afternoone. 
The first yeare disputes at the second houre. 
The 2d. yeare at the 3d. houre. 
The 3d. yeare at the 4th. every one in his Art. 
The 4th. day reads Greeke. 
To the first yeare the Etymologie and Syntax at the eighth houre. 
To the ead. at the gth. houre, Prosodia and Dialects. 
Afternoone. 
The first yeare at 2d. houre practice the precepts of Grammar in 
such Authors as have variety of words. 


704 i The Puritans 


The 2d. yeare at 3d. houre practice in Poésy, [with] Nonnus, Duport,* 
or the like. 

The gd. yeare perfect their Theory before noone, and exercise Style, 
Composition, Imitation, Epitome, both in Prose and Verse, afternoone. 


The fift{h| day reads Hebrew, and the Easterne Tongues. 
Grammar to the first yeare houre the 8th. 
To the 2d. Chaldee [1.e. Aramaic] at the gth. houre. 
To the 3d. Syriack at the roth. houre. 


Afternoone. | 
The first yeare practice in the Bible at the ad. houre. 
The ad. in Ezra and Dan[i]el at the 3d. houre. 
The 3d. at the 4th. houre in Trostius > New Testament. 


The 6th. day reads Rhetorick to all at the 8th houre. 
Declamations at the gth. So ordered that every Scholler may de- 
claime once a moneth. The rest of the day vacat Rhetoricis studiis.© The 
7th. day reads Divinity Catecheticall at the 8th. houre, Common places at the 


gth. houre. 
Afternoone. 


The first houre reads history in the Winter, 

The nature of plants in the Summer 

The summe of every Lecture shall be examined, before the new 
Lecture be read. 

Every Schollar, that on proofe is found able to read the Originalls 
of the Old and New Testament into the Latine tongue, and to resolve 
them Logically; withall being of godly life and conversation; And at 
any publick Act hath the Approbation of the Overseers and Master 
~ of the Colledge, is fit to be dignified with his first Degree. 

Every Schollar that giveth up in writing a System, or Synopsis, or 
summe of Logick, Naturall and Morall Phylosophy, Arithmetick, Geometry 
and Astronomy: and is ready to defend his Theses or positions: withall 
skilled in the Originalls as abovesaid: and of godly life & conversa- 
tion: and so approved by the Overseers and Master of the Colledge, 
at any publique Act, is fit to be dignified with his 2d. Degree. 


CHARLES CHAUNCY, 1591-1671/2 


[With Cotton and Hooker, Charles Chauncy was reckoned one of 
the most learned men of his day. Silenced in England, he emigrated 
to New England in 1638, and was settled as pastor first at Plymouth 
and later at Scituate; but his somewhat truculent casuistry—princi- 


Education 705 


pally his defense of “‘total immersion”—made him unwelcome to or- 
thodox Puritans. He was on his way through Boston to return to 
England in 1654, when he was offered the presidency of Harvard 
College. He accepted the post, promising to keép his unorthodox ideas 
to himself, and continued in office till his death. 

Gods Mercy, shewed to his people in giving them a faithful Ministry and 
schooles of Learning for the continual supplyes thereof (Cambridge, 1655), 
delivered as a Commencement sermon, is a defense of liberal educa- 
tion for ministers. Coming from the pen of the leading colonial edu- 
cator, it significantly answers the tracts which were advocating a purely 
Christian and Scriptural curriculum for divinity students. See Dic- 
tionary of American Biography, and Samuel E. Morison, Harvard College 
in the Seventeenth Century, chap. XVI. The text is from a copy in the 
New York Public Library, pp. 32-38, with omissions indicated. | 


A COMMENCEMENT SERMON 


... But now it is not a verball thankfulness that will serve our turn, 
(that would be gross hypocrisie) but it must be really expressed, to- 
wards the education of youth, & the incouragement of the ministry, 
_and the propagation of the Gospel. 

The reality of your thankfulness let it be expressed in your future 
care, 

1. To do (if it be in your power) as Hezekiah did 2 Chron: 30. 22. 
that spake to the heart of all the Levites, that taught the good knowledg of the 
Lord Yea do as Nehemiah did chap: 13. 11. See that sufficient portions be 
allotted & contributed unto them. 

2. Do as Jehoshaphat did 2 Chron: 19. 8. reach forth thine hand to send 
Levites into the blind and dark places of the country. 

3. Be at the cost to trayn up thy towardly children in good literature: 
parents are commanded to trayn up their children Ephes. 6. 4. in putting 
understanding © instruction into them: as if children were like bruit 
beasts without it. 

4. In relieving the sons of the Prophets, and the Colledg, as Elishah did 
1 Kings 4. 34. In setting up of free schools, as the Lord inables you. 

5. If ye be poor, yet pray for posterity and means of education, and 
pray for the peace of Jerusalem; and that Bethel, the house of God may 
not be turned into Bethaven the house of iniquity, that schools of learn- 
ing be not poysoned, or the fountains corrupted. | 

Vse 4. This point may serve for Information, To teach us, that 
Schools of learning are approved and appointed of God, and of great 


706 The Puritans 


importance for the benefit of Gods people: Seeing that the Lord works 
with, & blesseth this means, for the laying up of provision, & making 
of supplys for the work of the ministry; and the Lord here reckons 
it up as the chiefest of all the blessings mentioned: and this was always . 
one way (even when there were extraordinary Prophets) of raising up 
of Prophets &c: And there is much more need of schools now, when 
those extrardinary Prophets are wanting... . 

...I do much desire that the opposers of schools & universityes 
would speak plainly what they mean by humane learning, then wee 
should easily come to some conclusion. Therfore let this distinction 
be premised, that humane learning may either be taken for all that 
learning that the heathen Authours or philosophers have delivered in 
their writings: or else all other Arts besides Theology, as they call 
physicks, ethicks, politicks &c: take in also the grounds of languages, 
Latine Greek & Hebrew. Now in the former sense, if Mr. D.A do mean 
by humane learning, all that learning that the heathen men have 
uttered out of the light of nature: It will be a great oversight to pass 
such a sentence upon it. 1. Because we find in Scriptures, some testi- 
monies out of humane writers, as Tit: 1. 12. Acts 17. 28. 1 Cor: 15. 33. 
&c: which the Spirit of God would not have alledged, if their writings 
had been utterly unlawfull to read. 2. There are certain principles of 
trueth written, even in corrupt nature, which heathen authors have 
delivered unto us, that doe not cross the holy writ, 1 Cor: 11. 14. 
doth not nature it self teach you &c: and it cannot be denyed that all 
trueth, whosoever it be that speakes it, comes from the God of truth. 
as he is called several times And who can deny but that there are 
found many excellent & divine morall truths in Plato, Aristotle, Plutarch, 
Seneca &c:; and to condemn all pel-mel, will be an hard censure, es- 
pecially to call universities Antichrists for reading of them. Besides 
they have treated of the works of God, most excellently in many places, 
and the works of God ought to be declared by parents to their children, 
Psal. 78. 2-6. Besides they have delivered many excellent sayings of 
God, and have attested many Scripture historyes, as might be shewed 
by severall instances, out of Justine, Tacitus Gc: and Mr. D. is not ig- 
norant of them, shall all these be thrown away as antichristian, or as 
lyes? 

Object. But they have much profaness and filthiness in them, and 
besides they are made idolls of in our universities, when as ipse dixit, 
and their authority goeth for currant, as Scripture it self amongst. them. 

Answ. But 1. All heathenish writers, have not such profaness in 
them. 2. Those that have, let them be condemned & abhored, & let 


Education 707 


not youth be poysoned by them. 3. Let God be true & every man a 
lyer, and let not man, especially any heathen be deified, or his authority 
be accounted on, or go cheek by jowle with the speaking in the Scrip- 
tures: this is indeed to be abhored whersoever it is received, but 
abusus non tollit usum.? 

II. But now if humane learning be taken in the second sense, for 
all those Arts that are commonly taught in Universities, as Physicks, 
Ethicks, Politicks Oeconomicks, Rhetorick, Astronomy @c: or also for learned 
tongues of Latine, Greek, and Hebrew Ge: 

1. I will be bold to affirm, that these in the true sense and right 
meaning therof are Theologicall & Scripture learning, and are not 
to be accounted of as humane learning. For who can deny, that the 
first & second chapters of Genesis, and many chapters in Job, and the 
Psalms, and diverse other places of holy Scripture, do afford excellent 
and sure grounds for natural Philosophy, and a just systeme thereof: 
which Mr. Zanchy,? Daneus, and diverse other eminent Divines have 
opened & declared unto us? And where are there to be found such 
Ethicall, Politicall, or Morall precepts, as are to be found in holy Scrip- 
tures? or such principles for the ordering of our lifes, families, or com- 
mon weals? let any man declare it unto us. And where are there such 
high straines of all sorts of Rhetoricall Tropes, G figures, to be found in 
any Author, as there are in the writings of the Prophets G Apostles? 
and who can imagine, but that the best & surest Chronology in the 
world, is to bee found in holy Scriptures, upon which all the com- 
putation of times in all ages in the world depends? 


LEONARD HOAR, ca. 1630-1675 


[Born in England, Leonard Hoar was brought by his widowed 
mother to Braintree, Massachusetts. Soon after graduation from college 
in 1650, he returned to England to preach, but he was silenced in. 
1660. During the next ten years he cultivated the friendship of scholars, 
studied botany, and was created “Doctor of Physick”’ by the University 
of Cambridge. He returned to New. England in 1672 on invitation 
from the Third Church in Boston (the Old South), but was never 
ordained, for he accepted an offer of the presidency of his alma mater 
to succeed Charles Chauncy. Within three years he was forced to re- 
sign for reasons still obscure, but certainly not to his discredit. He 
died within the year. 

The letter to Josiah Flynt was written during his stay abroad, and 
emphasizes Hoar’s conviction that higher education should not merely 


708 The Puritans 


preserve the cultural past, but should advance learning as well, es- 
pecially by developing the sciences. 

See Dictionary of American Biography, and Sibley, Biographical Sketches, . 
I, 228-252. See especially Samuel E. Morison, Harvard College in the 
Seventeenth Century, pp. 392-414, and 639-644, from which the text, 
along with the accompanying notes, has been taken by generous per- 
mission. | : 


LETTER OF LEONARD HOAR 


To Huis FRESHMAN NEPHEW, JOSIAH FLYNT! 
[London] March 27, 1661 
OZEN Josiah Flint, 

Your first second and gd are before me in answer to one of mine 
to you the last year: the which you esteemed somewhat sharp but I 
thought and still doe fear that it was scarce so much as was needfull: 
and I am sure yourself would be of the same mind if with me you knew 
the unutterable misery and irreparable mischeif that follows upon the 
mispense of those Halcyon dayes which you do yet enjoy. The which 
letter, whilst you fence withall in your first by those seven or eight 
thin-sculd-paper-put-byes And as many empty excuses; you did but 
lay more open your own blame-worthinesse and augment my greif in- 
sted of giving me satisfaction. 

But your two latter epistles are better Containing some acknowledg- 
ment of those grand defects, discerned in you, and those errors com- 
mitted by you: together with your promises of reparation and amend- 
ment by redoubling your diligence in your studyes for the time to 
come. Only remember to doe what you have promised, and I there- 
upon have believed; that I may see some testimonyes of it in all your 
succeeding letters; And also hear it testyfyed by others, that shall 
write to me concerning you. By all things that you can either revere 
or desire I adjure you that you doe not emulate those unhappy youths 
that reckon it a high point of their wisdom to elude the expectations 
of their friends for a little while; whereby they indeed not only delude, 
but destroy themselves for ever. . 

Your account of the course of your studyes, as now ordered, under 
the worthy Mr. Chancey, is far short of my desire; for its only of what 
you were then about; Wheras it should have bin a delineation of your 
whole method and authors, from your matriculation till commence- 
ment. Therfore I can still touch but upon a few generalls for your 
direction. 

The first is this that you would not content yourself with the doing 


Education | 709 


that only which you are tasked to; Nor to doe that, meerly as much 
as needs must, and is expected of you: But dayly somthing more than 
your task: and that task also somthing better than ordinary. Thus 
when the classis study only Logick or Nature you may spend some one 
or two spare houres in Languages Rhetorique History or Mathe- 
matiques or the like, And when they recite only the text of an author 
read you some other of the same subject or some commentator upon 
it at the same time. Also in your accustomed disputations doe not 
satisfy yourself only to theiv an argument but study the question before 
hand and if possible draw in a book on purpose a summary of the 
arguments and answers on all hands: unto which you may briefly 
subjoyn any thing choice and accurate which you have heard in the 
hall upon the debate of it in publick. 

Nextly as you must read much that your head may be stored with 
notion so you must be free and much in all kinds of discourse of what 
you read: that your tongue may be apt to a good expression of what 
you doe understand, And further; of most things you must wr[ite] to; 
wherby you may render yourself exact in judging of what you hear 
or read and faithfull in remembering of what you once have known. 
Touching your writing take a few hints of many which I had thought 
to have given you. 1. let it not be in loose papers for it will prove for 
the most part lost labour. Secondly, nor in a fortuitous vagrant way 
But in distinct bookes designed for every severall purpose And the 
heads of all, wrote aforehand in every page with intermediate spaces 
left (as well as you can guesse) proportionable to the matter they are 
like to contain. 

3. Let all those heads be in the method of the incomparable P. Ra- 
mus, as to every art which he hath wrot upon. Get his definitions and 
distributions into your mind and memory. Let thesse be the titles of 
your severall pages and repositoryes in the books aforesaid. He that 
is ready in these of P. Ramus, may refer all things to them And he 
may know where again to fetch any thing that he hath judiciously 
referred; for there is not one axiom of truth ever uttered, that doth 
not fall under some speciall rule of art. 

The Genus on any page, you may (having paged your book before 
hand) by a figure set before it direct from what page it came: And 
the species thereof, one or more which, for method and understanding 
sake shall be set down under it, but not handled there: you may by 
figures after them direct to the severall pages that are made the re- 
positoryes for the matters referrible to each of them And so need no 
childish confused Alphabetical indices. 


710 The Puritans 


Mr Alexander Richardson’s Tables would be as an Ariadne’s thred 
to you in this labyrinth. Which with other his Manuscripts in Logick - 
Physick and Theology, by transcribing, have bin continued in your 
colledg ever since the foundation thereof among most that were reck- 
oned students indeed. And if you have now lost them I know no way 
to recover them but of some that were of that society in former times. 
I suppose Mr Danforth Mr Mitchell and others have them.? Mr Han- 
cock a quondam pupil of Mr. Chaunceyes hath his Divinity. But in 
the utter defect of this, you may make use of the grand Mr Ramus 
in Grammar Rhetorique Logick (the Mathematiques must be left to 
your industry and memory unlesse it should be some practicall branches 
of it, of which you may take short notes) and then for Theology (which 
you may yet let alone) you have Dr Ames Medulla: Of this Theme I 
shall be larger: when you shall give me encouragement thereunto by 
attending to what I have written on the rest fore going. 

4ly. As to the authors you should distill into your paper bookes in 
generall let them not be such as are already methodicall concise and 
pithy as possible: for it would be but to transcribe them: which is 
very tedious and uncouth. Rather keep such bookes by you for im- 
mediate perusall. But let them be such as are voluminous; intricate 
and more jejune: Or else those tractabuli that touch only on some 
smaller tendrells of any science. Especially if they be bookes that you 
doe only borrow, or hire to read. By this mean I have kept my library 
in a little compasse: (scarce yet having more bookes then my self can 
carry in my arms at once my paper bookes only excepted) and yet I 
have not quite lost any thing that did occur in my multifarious wan- 
dring readings. Were a man sure of a stable abode in a place for the 
whole time of his life, and had an estate also to expend; then indeed 
the bookes themselves in specie were the better way and only an index 
to\be made of them all. But this was not like to be nor hath bin my 
condition: and it may be may not be yours. Wherefore, though it be 
somewhat laborious yet be not discouraged in prosecuting it. It is the 
surest way and most ready for use in all places and times, yielding the 
greatest evidences of your growth in knowledge and therefore also 
the greatest delight. It comprehends the other way of an index to: 
If for the bookes you read you keep a catalogue of their names authors 
scope and manner of handling and edition. And so for every severall 
tract you devise a certain mark, by which you may breifly quote the 
author from whence you had those collected notes and refer to him 
for more ample satisfaction in any article when as it shall be to[o] 
tedious to transcribe him word for word. 


Education il 


5t. For bookes into which you should thus hoard your store Take 
at present only some quires of paper stitct together, which you may 
encrease or substract from, as you shall see occasion upon experience. 
Only let them that concern one thing be all ruld after one fashion; 
and let them be sewed and written so as that afterwards they may 
be bound into one volume, in case that you should never have time 
to digest them again into more handsome order. At least no further 
then a succinct epitome: or Synopsis. 

6. One paper book more adde of the names of all philosophicall 
authors and divines of ordinary note: of all the severall sects in the 
schooles and in the Church. Of all the nations famed in the world; 
of all and singular the most misterious arts and sciences: And of them 
all write a Latine Alphabeticall Index which by figures shall direct 
to the severall pages in a book where you have noted or will note the 
characters commendations and censures which any of them doe give 
of other and some of the charriteristick differences by which they were 
known, the time of their rise their progresse subdivisions and several 
ends. I mean such fragments as shall occur of these things, to you by 
the by in your reading: and would for most part be lost, if not thus 
laid up. As for the full history of them wherever that is found, tran- 
scribe nothing out of it, for its to laborious and endlesse: but only 
refer to it. Much lesse doe you doe offer to gather any thing out of 
the workes of authors who have written volumes to this very purpose, 
such as are Possewine,’? Sextus Senensis,+ Gesner,> Draudius,® and the 
like. The great use of this is to preserve these fragments that yourself 
shall find in your studyes, and could not be otherwise referred. Like- 
wise, that you may know and compare their thoughts of each other 
especially the moderns; and that accordingly you may be directed 
and cautioned in the perusal of any of them. Finally that you may 
have of your own store: those characters and lineaments by which 
you may presently pencill any of them at pleasure: And this not as 
usually upon prejudice and peradventures; but the testimonyes of 
some or other that you may also produce. for alway be sure in this, 
that you note down the author whence you excepted any thing of 
this nature. But this you will judg so vast as never to be accomplished, 
‘ and therefore vain to be attempted, you never having heard the names 
of 4, of those things and persons that I have proposed so that you 
know not how so much as to begin this platform. I answer that for 
the progresse or compleating of this work you need not take care: 
Let it but grow as you studyes grow; you never need seek any thing 
on purpose to put into this book. And for the entrance I shall shew 


712 The Puritans’ 


it easy. For if you take but one quire of paper and divide the first 2 
sheets into 24 narrow columnes, and every page of the rest into two: 
which also must be paged. Then mark the narrow columnes each ~ 
with one letter of the Alphabet. And it is ready for use: for tis but: 
to write the name of seid place or person that next occurs into your 
index with the figure J at it: and again that name, with what is there 
said of it in your first page of the quire, with the author whence you 
had it, and its done. And the like of the second in the second. When 
the index shall grow full tis but write it over again leaving larger 
spaces where needed. And when that quire shall grow full tis but to 
take up another and carry on the same columns and numbers. And 
when they grow to be five or 6 quires to this one index, why then, 
if that on any name swell to big for its column, tis but to refer it to 
some other column further forwards. On the contrary if any others 
have not nor are not like to yeild any thing much upon them, when 
more titles occur tis but croud those into them, referring them also, 
as the former, by the index and its figures. Thus I think I have made 
it facile and plain enough And beleiv me you will find it beyond your 
estimation, both pleasant and profitable. 

7. One more Quire you may take and rule each leaf into 4 columnes 
And therin also note Alphabetically all those curious criticismes Ety- 
mologyes and derivations that you shall meet withall in the English 
Latin Greek and Hebrew tongues. I still mean by the by: while you 
are seeking other matters. Not which you may gather out of vocabu- 
laryes and Criticks that have purposely written on such subjects. for 
that were but actum agere. 

8. Be forward and frequent in the use of all those things which 
you have read, and which you have collected: judiciously molding 
them up with others of your own fancy and memory according to 
the proposed occasions. Whether it be in the penning of epistles ora- 
tions Theses or Antitheses, or determinations upon a question. Analyses 
of any part of an author, or imitations of him, fer modum genésews.’ 
For so much only have you profited in your studyes as you are able 
to doe these. And all the contemplations and collection in the world, 
will but only fit you for thesse: tis practise Ane ey your own practise 
that will be able to perfect you. 

My charg of your choyce of company I need not inculcate: nor I 
hope that for your constant use of the Latine tongue in all your con- 
verse together: and that in the purest phrase of Terence and Erasmus 
etc Musick I had almost forgot I suspect you seek it both to soon, and 
to much, This be assured of that if you be not excellent at it Its worth 


Education | 713 


nothing at all. And if you be excellent it will take up so much of your 
mind and time that you will be worth little else: And when all that 
excellence is attained your acquest will prove little or nothing of real 
profit to you unlesse you intend to take upon you the trade of fidling. 
Howbeit hearing your mother’s desires were for it for your sisters for 
whom tis more proper and they also have more leisure to looke after 
it: For them I say I had provided the Instruments desired, But I 
cannot now attend the sending them being hurrying away from London 
by this unexpected providence of your unkle Daniells sicknesse: which 
with some other circumst: with which its acc[ompanied] dt. nt. a 
It] dist. me.® 

My deservedly honoured friend and colleague Mr Stoughton is 
coming over. he hath promised me to doe you any civill courtesy 
either for advice or loan of a book or the like. Therfore to him I wish 
you modestly to apply your self and hearken to: whom as I am sure 
you will find able, so I am perswaded that you will find both free and 
faithfull, to assist you as is meet. 

I shall adde but one thing more for a conclusion: But that the 
crown and perfection of all the rest: which only can make your en- 
deavours succesfull and your end blessed: And that is som thing of the 
_ dayly practice of piety and the study of the true and highest wisdome 
And for gods sake, and your own both present and eternall welfares 
sake, let me not only entereat, but enjoyn, and obtain of you, that 
you doe not neglect it: No not a day. For it must be constancy, con- 
stancy, as well as labour, that compleats any such work. And if you 
will take me for an admonitor doe it thus. Read every morning a 
chapter in the old Test: and every evning one in the new: using your 
self alwayes as much as you can to one edition of the bible. And as 
you read, note lightly with your pen in the margent the severall places 
of remarque, with severall marks. Those I use are: for such as have 
any thing in them new to me, notable and evident, this sign ’ for 
those that are obscure and worthy to consult an interpreter upon: 
this ‘ For those that are seemingly contradictory to some others, this 
+ For those that must be compared with others this > For those 
golden sayings that are full of the soul and power of the Gospell; 
worthy of highest consideration and admiration, thus ~. And if any 
3 or 4. or 10 verses together be of like import I upon the first of them 
set down the proper mark and double it as ’” ** 5. 

2. Out of these latter most eminent sentences cull one or two for 
to expatiate upon in your own thoughts, half a quarter of an houre 
by way of meditation. There use your Rhetoricque, your utmost ra- 


714 The Puritans 


tionation, or rather indeed your sanctifyed affections: Love faith fear 
hope joy etc: For your direction and encouragement in this exercise, 
you may read the practique of Augustine Bernard or Gerard. Or our 
more modern worthyes I Ambrose, R Baxter, B[isho]p Hall or mr - 
Watson,? as to the Theoreticall part. 

gly and lastly, those 2 being premised, ‘close with Prayer. for this 
I prescribe not whether it should be linguall or mentall longer or 
breifer: Only let it as wel as its two preparatives, be most solemn 
and secret: and as tis said of Hannah, the speech of your heart. The 
barrenest ground, and with but mean tillage, being thus watered with 
these dews of heaven, will bring forth abundantly: and that, the most 
excellent fruites. Doe but seriously try these 3 last things, for some 
good while: and reckon me a Lyar in all the rest, if you find not their 
most sensible sweet effects. yea (as that Christian Seneca, B[isho]p Hall, 
said before me so I boldly say again) Doe you curse me from your 
death-bed, if you doe not reckon these amongst your best spent houres. 

Touching the other items about your studyes, either mind them 
or mend them and follow better. So we shall be freinds and rejoyce 
in each other. But if you will neither: then (tho I am no prophet, 
yet) I will fortell you the certain issue of all: viz: that ere a very few 
years be over, with inconceivable indignation that you will call your 
self fool and caitif: And then, (then when it is to no purpose) [call] 
me what I now subscribe my self 


Your faithfull freind, and loving unkle 
Leon Hoar. 


THOMAS SHEPARD, JR. (1635-1677) 


[The advice which Leonard Hoar offered his nephew, Josiah Flynt, 
primarily concerned matters of curriculum. Thomas Shepard, Jr., 
son of the first minister at Cambridge, emphasized quite different points 
in the letter to his son Thomas (1658-1685). Shepard had served the 
College as Tutor shortly after his graduation in 1653, hence his ad- 
vice was especially apt. Son Thomas was graduated in 1676, and four 
years later he was ordained pastor of the same church in Charlestown, 
Massachusetts, which his father served as teacher. 

For an account of Thomas Shepard, Jr., see Sibley, Biographical 
Sketches, 1, 327-335; for the son, see Sibley, zdzd., II, 482-488. The 
letter was inaccurately printed in Cotton Mather, Magnalia (1702), 
IV, 202-203; also in American ‘Quarterly Register, YX (1836), 116-117. 
The text, together with the notes, is from Publications of the Colomal 
Society of Massachusetts, XIV (1913), 192-108.] 


Education 715 


A LETTER FROM THE REV? MR THOS SHEPHARD 
To His Son attr His ApMISsSION INTO THE COLLEGE. 


EAR Son, I think meet (partly from the advice of your renowned 
Grandfather to myself att my admission into the College, and 
partly from some other observations I have had respecting studies in 
that society) to leave the Remembrances and advice following with 
you, in this great Change of your life, rather in writing, than viva 
voce only; that so they may be the better considered and improved 
by you, and may abide upon your heart when I shall be (and that 
may be sooner than you are aware) taken from thee, and speak no 
more: requiring you frequently to read over, and seriously to ponder, 
and digest, as also conscientiously to putt in practice the same through 
the Lords assistance. 

I. Remember the end of your life, which is acoming back again to 
God, and fellowship with God; for as your great misery is your sepa- 
ration, and estrangement from him, so your happiness, or last end, is 
your Return again to him; and because there is no coming to God but 
by Christs Righteousness, and no Christ to be had but by faith, and 
no Faith without humiliation or sense of your misery, hence therefore 
- let all your Prayers, and tears be, that God would first humble you, 
that so you may fly by faith to Christ, and come by Christ to God. 

II. Remember the End of this turn of your life, vizt your coming 
into the College, it is to fitt you for the most Glorious work, which 
God can call you to, vizt the Holy Ministry; that you may declare 
the Name of God to the Conversion and salvation of souls; for this 
End, your Father has sett you apart with many Tears, and hath given 
you up unto God, that he may accept of you; and that he would de- 
light in you. 

III. Remember therefore that God looks for and calls for much 
holiness from you: I had rather see you buried in your Grave, than 
grow light, loose, wanton, or prophane. God’s secretts in the holy 
scriptures, which are left to instruct Ministers, are never made known 
to common and prophane Spirits: and therefore be sure you begin, 
and end every Day wherein you study with Earnest prayer to God, 
lamenting after the favour of God; reading some part of the Scriptures 
daily; and setting apart some time every Day (tho’ but one Quarter 
of an hour) for meditation of the things of God. 

IV. Remember therefore, that tho’ you have spent your time in 
the vanity of Childhood; sports and mirth, little minding better things, 
yet that now, when come to this ripeness of Admission to the College, 


716 ; The Puritans 


that now God and man expects you should putt away Childish 
things: now is the time come, wherein you are to be serious, and 
to learn sobriety, and wisdom in all your ways which concern God 

and man. | 

V. Remember that these are times and Days of much Light and 
Knowledge and that therefore you had as good be no Scholar as not 
excell in Knowledge and Learning. Abhorr therefore one hour of idle- 
ness as you would be ashamed of one hour of Drunkenness: Look that 
you loose not your precious time by falling in with Idle Companions, 
or by growing weary of your Studies, or by Love of any filthy lust; 
or by discouragement of heart that you shall never attain to any ex- 
cellency of Knowledge, or by thinking too well of your self, that you 
have gott as much as is needfull for you, when you have gott as much 
as your Equals in the same year; no verily, the Spirit of God will not 
communicate much to you in a way of Idleness, but will curse your 
Soul, while this sin is nourished, which hath spoiled so many hopefull 
youths in their first blossoming in the College: And therefore tho’ I 
would not have you neglect seasons of recreation a little before and 
after meals (and altho’ I would not have you Study late in the night 
usually, yet look that you rise early and loose not your morning 
thoughts, when your mind is most fresh, and fitt for Study) but be 
no wicked example all the Day to any of your Fellows in spending 
your time Idly: And do not content yourself to do as much as your 
Tutor setts you about, but know that you will never excell in Learning, 
unless you do Somewhat else in private Hours, wherein his Care cannot 
reach you: and do not think that Idling away your time is no great 
Sin, if so be you think you can hide it from the Eyes of others: but 
Consider that God, who always sees you, and observes how you Spend 
your time, will be provoked for every hour of that precious time you 
now mispend, which you are like never to find the like to this in the 
College, all your Life after. 

VI. Remember that in ordering your Studies you make them as 
pleasant as may be, and as fruitfull as possibly you are able, that so 
you may not be weary in the work God setts you about: and for this 
End remember these Rules, vizt | 

1, Single out two or three scholars most Godly, Learned and 
studious, and whom you can most love, and who love you best, to 
be helps to you in your Studies; Gett therefore into the acquaintance 
of some of your Equalls, to spend some time with them often in dis- 
coursing and disputing about the things you hear and read and learn; 
as also grow acquainted with some that are your Superiours, of whom 


Education : 717 


you may often ask questions and from whom you may learn more 
than by your Equals only. 

2, Mark every mans Disputations and Conferences, and study to 
gett some Good by every thing: and if your memory be not very strong, 
committ every notion this way gained unto Paper as soon as you gett 
into your Study. 

3, Lett your studies be so ordered as to have variety of Studies 
before you, that when you are weary of one book, you may take 
pleasure (through this variety) in another: and for this End read some 
Histories often, which (they Say) make men wise, as Poets make 
witty; both which are pleasant things in the midst of more difficult 
studies. 

4, Lett not your Studies be prosecuted in an immethodicall or 
Disorderly way; but (for the Generality) keep a fixed order of Studies 
Suited to your own Genius, and Circumstances of things, which in 
each year, att least, notwithstanding, there will be occasion of some 
variation of: Fix your Course, and the season for each kind of Study, 
and suffer no other matters, or Persons needlessly to interrupt you, 
or take you off therefrom. 

5, Lett difficult studies have the strength and flower of your time 
‘and thoughts: and therein suffer no difficulty to pass unresolved, but 
either by your own labour, or by enquiry of others, or by both, master 
it before you pass from it; pass not cursorily or heedlessly over such 
things (rivet the knottyest place you meet with) ’tis not so much multa 
Lectio sed sedula et attenta* that makes a scholar, as our Phrase speaks. 

6, Come to your Studies with an Appetite, and weary not your 
body, mind, or Eyes with long poreing on your book, but break off 
& meditate on what you have read, and then to it again; or (if it 
be in fitt season) recreate your Self a little, and so to your work afresh; 
let your recreation be such as may stir the Body chiefly, yet not violent, 
and whether such or sedentry, let it be never more than may Serve 
to make your Spirit the more free and lively in your Studies. 

7, Such books, as it is proper to read over, if they are very choice 
and not overlarge, read them over oftener than once: if it be not your 
own and that you are not like to procure it, then collect out of such 
book what is worthy to be noted therein: in which Collections take 
these Directions, (1) Write not in loose Papers, but in a fair Paper- * 
book paged thro’out. (2) Write faithfully the words of your Author. 
(3) Sett down in your Paper-book the name of your Author, with the 
title of his book, and the page, where you find the Collection. (4) Allow 
a margin to your paper-book no broader than wherein you may write 


& 


718 | - The Puritans 


the letters. a. b. c. d. e. f &c. vizt att the beginning of each observable 
Collection, if you have more Collections than two or three in a side. . 
(5) When you have written out such a book being marked with some 
distinguishing character (as I. 2. 3. 4. &c. or a, 8, y, 6, &c.) prepare 
another of the same dimensions as near as you can, and improve that 
as the former, and so onwards: which book may be (as the Merchants 
Journal is to his principal Ledger) preparatory for your Common- 
place book, as your reason and fancy will easily Suggest how, by Short 
reference of any subject to be handled, found in, (suppose) the paper 
book, 8. page 10. margine f. Suppose the subject be [Faith] you need 
only write in your Common place book [Faith] vide 8. 10, f: if the 
Subject be [hope] write [hope, y 10 d.] which signifies that there is 
some Description of that Subject [hope] or some sentence about hope 
that is observable, or some story concerning that Vertue, & ye like; 
In the third paper book marked with [y] and in the tenth page of 
that book, begun in the margin at the letter [d] [b] as you have leisure, 
read over your paper books, wherein you have writen your Collec- 
tions at large, the frequent perusal thereof will many ways be useful 
to you as your Experience will in time witness. 

8, Choose rather to confess your Ignorance in any matter of 
Learning, that you may [be] instructed by your Tutor, or another, 
as there may be occasion for it, than to pass from it, and so continue 
in your Ignorance thereof, or in any Errour about it; malo te doctum 
esse quam. haberi.? 

9, Suffer not too much to be spent, and break away in visits 
(visiting, or being visited) let them be Such as may be a whett to you 
in your studies, and for your profitt in Learning some way of other, 
so that you be imparting to others or imparted to from them, or both, 
in some notion of other, upon all Such occasions. 

10, Study the art of reducing all you read to practice in your 
orations &c: turning and improving elegantly to words and notions, 
and fancy of your authour to Sett of quite another subject; a delicate 
example whereof you have in your Chrystiados, whereof Ross is the 
author, causing Virgil to Evangelize:* and as in your orations, so 
in all you do, labour for exactness, and acurateness, let not crude, 
lame, bungling Stuff come out of your Study: and for that end, see 
that you neither play nor sleep, nor idle away a moments time within 
your Study door, but remember your Study is your work-house only, 
and place of prayer. | 

11, So frame an order your Studies, that the one may be a further- 
ance to the other (the Tongues to the arts and the arts to the Tongues) 


Education 719 


and endeavour that your first years Studies may become a Clue to 
lead you on the more clearly, strongly, profitably, & chearfully to the 
Studies of the years following, making all still usefull, and subservient 
_to Divinity, and so will your profiting in all be the more Perspicuous 
and methodicall. 

12, Be sparing in your Diet, as to meat and drink, that so after 
any repast your body may be a servant to your mind, and not a Clogg 
and Burden. 

13, Take pains in, and time for preparing in private for your 
recitations, declamations, disputations, and such other exercises as you 
are called to attend before your Tutor or others; do not hurry them 
off indigestly, no not under pretence of Studying some other matter 
first: but first (I Say in the first place) attend those (straiten not your 
self in time for the thorough dispatch thereof) and then afterwards 
you may apply yourself as aforesaid to your private and more proper 
Studies; In all which, mind that reading without meditation will be 
in a great measure unprofitable, and rawness and forgetfulness will 
be the Event: but meditation without reading will be barren soon; 
therefore read much that so you may have plenty of matter for medi- 
tation to work upon; and here I would not have you forgett a speech 
_ of your precious Grandfather to a Scholar that complained to him of 
a bad memory, which did discourage him from reading much in 
History, or other books, his answer was, [Lege! lege! aliquid haerebit] 
So I say to you read! read! something will stick in the mind, be diligent 
and good will come of it: and that Sentence in Prov. 14. 23. deserves 
to be written in letters of Gold upon your study-table [in all labour 
there is profitt &c] yet also know that reading, and meditation without 
prayer, will in the End be both blasted by the holy God, and therefore, 

VII. Remember that not only heavenly and spiritual and Super- 
natural knowledge descends from God, but also all naturall, and 
humane learning, and abilities; and therefore pray much, not only 
for the one but also for the other from the Father of Lights, and mercies; 
and remember that prayer att Christs feet for all the learning you 
want, shall fetch you in more in an hour, than possibly you may gett 
by all the books, and helps you have otherwise in many years. 

VIII. Remember to be Grave (not Childish) and amiable and lov- 
ing toward all the Scholars, that you may win their hearts and Honour. 

IX. Remember now to be watchful against the two great Sins of 
many Scholars; the first is youthful Lusts, speculative wantoness, and 
secret filthiness, which God sees in the Dark, and for which God hardens 
and blinds young mens hearts, his holy Spirit departing from such, 


720 | The Puritans 


unclean Styes. The second is malignancy and secret distaste of Holiness 
and the Power of Godliness, and the Professors of it, both these sins 
you will quickly fall into, unto your own perdition, if you be not 
carefull of your Company, for there are and will be such in every 
Scholasticall Society for the most part, as will teach you how to be 
filthy and how to jest, and Scorn at Godliness, and the professors 
thereof, whose Company I charge you to fly from as from the Devil, 
and abhor: and that you may be kept from these, read often that 
woripture Prov. 2/)10..11. 12; 16, 

X. Remember to intreat God with Tears before you come to hear 
any Sermon, that thereby God would powerfully speak to your heart, 
and make his truth precious to you: neglect not to write after the 
preacher always, and write not in loose sheets but in handsome Paper- 
books; and be carefull to preserve and peruse the Same. And upon 
the Sabbath days make exceeding Conscience of Sanctification; mix 
not your other Studies, much less Idleness, or vain and casual dis- 
courses with the Duties of that holy Day; but remember that Com- 
mand Lev. 19. 30. Ye shall keep my Sabbaths and reverence my 
Sanctuary, I am the Lord. . 

XI. Remember that whensoever you read, hear or conceive of any 
Divine truth, you Study to affect your heart with it and the Goodness 
of it. Take heed of receiving Truth into your head without the Love 
of it in your heart, lest God give you up to strong Delusions to believe 
lyes, and that-in the Conclusion all your learning shall make you more 
fitt to decieve your Self and others. ‘Take heed lest by seing things 
with a form of Knowledge, the Lord do not bind you by that Knowl- 
edge the more, that in seing you shall not see: If therefore God re- 
vealeth any truth to you att any time, be sure you be humbly and 
deeply thankfull: and when he hides any truth from you, be sure you 
lie down, and loath yourself, and be humble: the first degree of wisdom 
is to know and feel your own folly. 

2 Tim. 2. 7. Consider what I say and the Lord give thee under- 

standing in all things. 
~ Prov. 23. 15. My Son, if thine heart be wise, my heart shall rejoice, 


even mine. 
Pater tuus 


T. SHEPARD 


INCREASE MATHER 


[One popular misconception too often repeated has been the belief 
that Puritan educators were interested in higher learning only as it 


Education : 721 


prepared students by means of a curriculum preponderantly theo- 
logical. The presidential address delivered in Latin by Increase Mather 
sometime before 1697, counseling the pupils to search for Truth with 
evidence derived from the new and disturbing scientific discoveries, 
is in the finest tradition of humane learning. 

For Increase Mather, see p. 334. The English text is from Samuel E. 
Morison, Harvard College in the Seventeenth Century, p. 167, by generous 
permission. | 


A PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS 


T PLEASETH me greatly that you, who have been initiated in the 
Liberal Arts, seem to savour a liberal mode of philosophizing, 
rather than the Peripatetic. I doubt not that the Exercitationes of Gas- 
sendi! are familiar to you; in which he sheweth with many proofs 
that there are many deficiencies in Aristotle, many excesses, and many 
errors. It is a trite saying, He who desireth not to be intelligible, should be 
negligible; moreover there are some matters in the books of Aristotle 
which no mortal can comprehend. Wherefore it is alleged of Hermolaus 
Barbarus,? that he raised a demon from hell, to explain what Aristotle 
meant by évrehexeca.? A right proper interpreter of Aristotle, forsooth! 
. How much in his writings are redolent of their author’s paganism! 
He would have the world uncreated; he denieth a possible resurrec- 
tion of the dead, he declareth the soul mortal. To Aristotle some prefer 
Pyrrho, father of the Sceptics; others, Zeno, father of the Stoics; many 
prefer Plato, father of the Academics. You who are wont to philoso- 
phize in a liberal spirit, are pledged to the words of no particular 
master, yet I would have you hold fast to that one truly golden saying 
of Aristotle: Find a friend in Plato, a friend in Socrates (and I say a friend. 
in Aristotle), but above all find a friend in TRUTH. 


COTTON MATHER 


[Upon the death of Ezekiel Cheever (1615/16-1708), Cotton Mather 
wrote a biographical sketch of that beloved teacher: Corderius Ameri- 
canus. An Essay upon the Good Education of Children. The tribute to 
the most famous schoolmaster of the period, with its accompanying 
verse elegy, bespeaks the esteem in which the venerable master was 
held. It indicates as well the training which boys received for seven 
years in Latin and Greek—the only subjects studied in grammar 
school. 

Cheever, a graduate of Emmanuel College, Cambridge, emigrated 


ap The Puritans 


in 1637. He taught continuously for seventy years, at New Haven, 
Ipswich, Charlestown, and finally for the last thirty-eight years of his 
life as master of the Boston Latin School. His Latin Accidence was 
used as a text for two centuries. Hawthorne’s Grandfather’s Chair — 
pictures him vividly. See also Elizabeth P. Gould, Ezektel Cheever, 
Schoolmaster (Boston, 1904); and Dictionary of American Biography. 

Elijah Corlet (1610?—1687/8) was likewise a distinguished school- 
master. He received his A.B. degree at Oxford in 1631, and emigrated 
to Cambridge, Massachusetts, where he was master of the Grammar 
School from 1642 till his death. See William C. Lane, ‘““Nehemiah 
Walter’s Elegy on Elijah Corlet,”’ Proceedings of the Cambridge Historical 
Society, II (1906), 13-20; George E. Littlefield, “Elijah Corlet and the 
‘Faire Grammar Schoole’ at Cambridge,” Publications of the Colonial 
Society of Massachusetts, XVII (1915), 131-140. The Elegy is reprinted 
in Early American Poetry, ed. James F. Hunnewell, Boston, 1896. For 
account of Cotton Mather, see p. 162. 

We cannot know how Mather’s children reacted to the sententious- 
ness of the ‘“‘Special Points’’ relating to their education. The plan was 
well enough, and doubtless one which all good Puritans strove to 
execute in some. degree. Had Mather been mindful of the principle 
enunciated by Jonathan Swift in his ‘“‘Resolutions’’—not to apply them 
all for fear of observing none—he might have been spared the shame 
brought upon him by his unfilial scapegrace “Cressy.” 

The text of An Elegy on Ezekiel Cheever is from Cordertus Americanus; 
that of “Some Special Points” is from The Diary of Cotton Mather, ed. by 
Worthington C. Ford in Massachusetis Historical Society Collections, series 7, 
VII (1911), 534-537, dated February, 1705/6.] 


AN ELEGY ON EZEKIEL CHEEVER 


ou THAT are Men, & Thoughts of Manhood know, 
- Be Just now to the Man that made you so. 
Martyr’d by Scholars the stabb’d Cassian dies, 
And falls to cursed Lads a Sacrifice. 
Not so my CHEEVER; Not by Scholars slain, 
But Prais’d, and Lov’d, and wish’d to Life again. 
A mighty Tribe of Well-instructed Youth 
Tell what they owe to him, and Tell with Truth. 
All the Eight parts of Speech he taught to them 
They now Employ to Trumpet his Esteem. 
They fill Fames Trumpet, and they spread a Fame 
To last till the Last Trumpet drown the same. . 


Education 723 


A Learned Master of the Languages 
Which to Rich Stores of Learning are the Keyes 
He taught us first Good Sense to understand 
And put the Golden Keyes into our Hand, 
We but for him had been for Learning Dum, 
And had a sort of Turkish Mutes become. 
Were Grammar quite Extinct, yet at his Brain 
The Candle might have well been lit again. 
If Rhet’rick had been stript of all her Pride 
She from his Wardrobe might have been Supply’d, 
Do but Name CHEEVER, and the Echo straight 
Upon that Name, Good Latin, will Repeat. 
A Christian Terence, Master of the File | 
That arms the Curious to Reform their Style. 
Now Rome and Athens from their Ashes rise; 
See their Platonick Year with vast surprize: 
And in our School a Miracle is wrought; 
For the Dead Languages to Life are brought. . 
His Work he Lov’d: Oh! had we done the same: 
Our Play-dayes still to him ungrateful came. 
And yet so well our Work adjusted Lay, 
We came to Work, as if we came to Play. 
Our Lads had been, but for his wondrous Cares, 
Boyes of my Lady Mores} unquiet Pray’rs. 
Sure were it not for such informing Schools, 
Our La?’ran too would soon be fill’d with Ovwles. 
Tis CoRLET’s pains, & CHEEVER’s, we must own, 
That thou, New-England, art not Scythia grown. 
The Isles of Silly * had o’re-run this Day 
The Continent of our America. 
Grammar he taught, which ’twas his work to do: 
But he would Hagar 3 have her place to know. 
2 The Bible is the Sacred Grammar, where 
The Rules of speaking well, contained are. 
He taught us Lilly,* and he Gospel taught; 
And us poor Children to our Saviour brought. 
Master of Sentences, he gave us more 
The > we in our Sententia had before. 
We Learn’t Good Things in Tullies Offices; 
But we from fim Learn’t Better things than these, 
With Cato’s he to us the Higher gave 
Lessons of Jesus, that our Souls do save. 
We Constru’d Ovid’s Metamorphosis, 
But on our selves charg’d, not a Change to miss. 
Young Austin wept,® when he saw Dido dead, 


724 : The Puritans 


Tho’ not a Tear for a Lost Soul he had: 
Our Master would not let us be so vain, 
But us from Virgil did to David train, 
Textors Epistles 7 would not Cloathe our Souls; 
Pauls too we heard; we went to School at Pauls... . 
Death gently cut the Stalk, and kindly laid 
Him, where our God His Granary has made. 
Who at New-Haven first began to Teach, 
Dying Unshipwreck’d, does White-Haven reach. 
At that Fair Haven they all Storms forget; 
He there his DAVENPoRT ® with Love does meet. 
The Luminons Robe, the Less whereof with Shame 
Our Parents wept, when Naked they became; 
Those Lovely Spirits wear it, and therein 
Serve God with Priestly Glory, free from Sin. 
But in his Paradisian Rest above, 
To Us does the Blest Shade retain his Love. 
With Rip’ned Thoughts Above concern’d for Us, 
We can’t but hear him dart his Wishes, thus. 
“Tutors, Be Strict; But yet be Gentle too: 
Don’t by fierce Crueltves fair Hopes undo. 
Dream not, that they who are to Learning slow, 
Will mend by Arguments in Ferio. 
Who keeps the Golden Fleece, Oh, let him not 
A Dragon be, tho’ he Three Tongues have got. 
Why can you not to Learning find the way, 
But thro’ the Province of Severia? 
Twas Moderatus, who taught Origen; ° 
A Youth which prov’d one of the Best of men. 
The Lads with Honour first, and Reason Rule; 
Blowes are but for the Refractory Fool. 


SOME SPECIAL POINTS, RELATING TO THE 
EDUCATION OF MY CHILDREN. 


I. I pour out continual Prayers and Cries to the God of all Grace 
for them, that He will be a Father to my Children, and bestow His 
Christ and His Grace upon them, and guide them with His Councils, 
and bring them to His Glory. 

And in this Action, I mention them Napa 2 every one by Name 
unto the Lord. 

II. I begin betimes to entertain them with delightful Stories, es- 
pecially scriptural ones. And still conclude with some Lesson of Piety; 
bidding them to learn that Lesson from the Story. 


a 


Education 725 

And thus, every Day at the Table, I have used myself to tell a Story 
before I rise; and make the Story useful to the Olive Plants about the 
Table. 

III. When the Children at any time accidentally come in my way, it 
is my custome to lett fall some Sentence or other, that may be monitory 
and profitable to them. 

This Matter proves to me, a Matter of some Study, and Labour, 
and Contrivance. But who can tell, what may be the Effect of a con- 
tinual Dropping? 

IV. I essay betimes, to engage the Children, in Exercises of Piety; 
and especially secret Prayer, for which I give them very plain and brief 
Directions, and suggest unto them the Petztions, which I would have 
them to make before the Lord, and which I therefore explain to their 
Apprehension and Capacity. And I often call upon them; Child, Don’t 
you forgett every Day, to go alone, and pray as I have directed you! 

V. Betimes I try to form in the Children a Temper of Benignity. 
I putt them upon doing of Services and Kindnesses for one another, 
and for other Children. I applaud them, when I see them Delight 
in it. I upbraid all Aversion to it. I caution them exquisitely against 
all Revenges of Injuries. I instruct them, to return good Offices for 
evil Ones. I show them, how they will by this Goodness become like 
to the Good Gop, and His Glorious Curist. I lett them discern, that 
I am not satisfied, except when they have a Sweetness of Temper 
shining in them. 

VI. As soon as tis possible, I make the Children learn to write. 
And when they can write, I employ them in Writing out the most 
agreeable and profitable Things, that I can invent for them. In this 
way, I propose to fraight their minds with excellent Things, and have 
a deep Impression made upon their Minds by such Things. 

VII. I mightily endeavour it, that the Children may betimes, be 
acted by Principles of Reason and Honour. 

I first begett in them an high Opinion of their Father’s Love to them, 
and of his being best able to judge, what shall be good for them. 

Then I make them sensible, tis a Folly for them to pretend unto any 
Witt and Will of their own; they must resign all to me, who will be 
sure to do what is best; my word must be their Law. 

I cause them to understand, that it is an hurtful and a shameful 
thing to do amiss. I aggravate this, on all Occasions; and lett them 
see how amiable they will render themselves by well doing. 

The first Chastisement, which I inflict for an ordinary Fault, is, to 
lett the Child see and hear me in an Astonishment, and hardly able 


726 The Puritans 


to beleeve that the Child could do so base a Thing, but beleeving 
that they will never do it again. 

I would never come, to give a child a Blow; except in Case of Ob- 
stinacy: or some gross Enormity. 

To be chased for a while out of my Presence, I would make to be 
look’d upon, as the sorest Punishment in the Family. 

I would by all possible Insinuations gain this Point upon them, 
that for them to learn all the brave Things in the world, is the bravest 
Thing in the world. I am not fond of proposing Play to them, asa 
Reward of any diligent Application to learn what is good; lest they 
should think Diversion to be a better and a nobler Thing than Dili- 
gence. 

I would have them come to propound and expect, at this rate, I 
have done well, and now I will go to my Father; He will teach me some curious 
Thing for it. I must have them count it a Priviledge, to be taught; and 
I sometimes manage the Matter so, that my Refusing to teach them 
Something, is their Punishment. 

The slavish way of Education, carried on with raving and kicking 
and scourging (in Schools as well as Families,) tis abominable; and a 
dreadful Judgment of God upon the World. 

VIII. Tho’ I find it a marvellous Advantage to have the Children 
strongly biased by Principles of Reason and Honour, (which, I find, 
Children will feel sooner than is commonly thought for:) yett I would 
neglect no Endeavours, to have higher Principles infused into them. 

I therefore betimes awe them with the Eye of God upon them. 

I show them, how they must love Jesus Curist; and show it, by 
doing what their Parents require of them. 

I often tell them of the good Angels, who love them, and help them, 
and guard them; and who take Notice of them: and _ therefore must 
not be disobliged. 
| Heaven and Hell, I sett before them, as the Consequences of their 
Behaviour here. 

IX. When the Children are capable of it, I take them alone, one 
by one; and after my Charges unto them, to fear God, and serve Christ, 
and shun Sin, I pray with them in my Study and make them the Wit- 
nesses of the Agonies, with which I address the Throne of Grace on 
their behalf. 

X. I find much Benefit, by a particular Method, as of Catechising 
the Children, so of carrying the Repetition of the public Sermons ‘unto 
them. 

The Answers of the Catechism I still explain with abundance of brief 


Education 727 


Quaestions, which make them to take in the Meaning of it, and I see, 
that they do so. 

And when the Sermons are to be Repeated, I chuse to putt every 
Truth, into a Question, to be answered still, with, Yes, or, No. In this 
way I awaken their Altention, as well as enlighten their Understanding. 
And in this way I have an Opportunity, to ask, Do you desire such, or 
such a Grace of God? and the like. Yea, I have an Opportunity to de- 
mand, and perhaps, to obtain their Consent unto the glorious Articles 
of the New Covenant. The Spirit of Grace may fall upon them in this 
Action; and they may be siez’d by Him, and Held as His Temples, 
thro’ eternal Ages. 


728 


‘FLLUSITRISSEMIS \V-IR 
Tarn Pictate, quam Prudenrh orque Autorirare fpeCatsfiinis 5 
a CD. FOHANNI!LEWERETTO.c Meu 
re VOrniifinis <x 7), ¥ OSlIE'W I Ne SLOWE 0. hegeoe elie Plimouth itereatoritve 
4 D-GUILIEL s&0:L E\TTO. et arene 


REE gqcecterifque in Mogitcaras Onere et, Ho sore Conjageti, ed Relablicae clay jugiter'excub, saan 
j @Beeteri'que in Mogitcaray Onere e¢,'Ho sore Conjugatis, ad Retpublice clavum jugicer: attbar, ia : 
Des fads seat Reve refailti ms eam Seiden x, tumpEcclehiaram,t Urstonbus, Theologis Do Chilo ee Lar Diets 
“4 ‘Omnibus desud et Gogulis bonarum Lureraiajn cand:datis, beacvolis Academisg corp brass ne = 

Thefes Rate, quis (‘sxrotp werpiva‘o®us ) Sub Revi URIANO OAKES, Ecclefis Cantabiigi, ; 
pr ‘a uvirdiai’B. Bide pro cempores Karasxsvasrinae vel Avac vasriaes Ot(caticndas, Proponuns preter haa 
i F ohannes (ottonuse 
+34 iy Cottonus Maatherys, . 
rs Wo rindallus Reawfonuse 
Pa rianus Ogres. Dp. D.D'd. 
aos 

THESES TECHNOLOGICE: ¥ GRAMMATICE, 
HY ammarica ¢ft eA atido tr a i oma 
(ees th eAatidorus contra confufarum ling waruns males 


Ri CH ordigata InteDigentia, Scientia, Sopicmia, & 
Pruden psa colligat.o @ concurfus. = 

CO , 8. Ars pr eciped confiitisin Theord Rege'@, & Praxt 

; fecandum Regulam. 

we) 1 3 Usrumjue perfcstur per Analyfin O Gene fm. 


3; Sunm Idioma farvare eff omni lingua privilegium sect . 
¢ 3. Prima fe ph td pure pets ; he 
¢ te Nota rerum alie poffent cudi prater verba er literas, 
“\ 7 $- Aliquid de popsslorurm moribas potef} colligicx ipforam lingeis, 
6. DiftinBio mser verba Flomonyma eft praccipurs Ortbograpbies ufut, 


+ he Libek: Scvi intr alia e, . 
quib-ss hae Bealeen Folinda. WAicrbiccnake Lumet aiptrteg ex 7 Q aatites & acetatus fant fyliabartie condimenta, Py 


sentestehne ahs 


; ‘ saci ® 
§. Author errium es Author Art un. 8. eam sf C2 die eal ja keBorem dirigitin (enficm fenten tigyam, 
$23 16 Pracepta Artis id agunt, ut veseriguerele,, drt longa,vita brevity RHETORICE, 
medcantur. , A q rd 2 q : eA . 
x acl «of ebjetioes e& fits artng Ree munat eft diBaming Rationis Poantafie applicars 
B. Praxis off Theoria fiir, medium Bris altimi, Sore te bonnm 4 pparens. 
9. Ufa confunduntur, [pacwhatione Sf parancur prastomena, 4 3 Copia Troporum fluxit «x inopia verborum, 


' , j i bropus in axionsatibus finon aptiss me adbibiter, oBCa'ceb 

10, Grnefis  Avalyfis cadem veftigta premunt. 4 Omnis bropus in axio pti:fs ites, eB Ca'cobrefic 

1k. incompint mon Genefis fuit, in ejusdemg, refolations nae } : pide heals pu iy re pean lamest pa: 
ly fis evit masxime con{pichag Vas ‘ y sr od u1388 > 
“3 je i ahgdbibiteres eb ear ro 


4 “it mae ; phorirtim soheins ss. ee 
at hea artifice Ars, fed ab arte eriifes-Beaturs B. Tropes dobtis, figura ldiacis of clocestionss pars mellit fia 


sl. eAfliquis in ommibus, xuHus in fingulit, non ofp card e216 ocra =) siaty ¢f orationss circamaGio, ut attdstores eommodius, Siopin 


: pA at, fimas. 
S Non datur eMetaphy fica ab alsis Difci-- “MATHEMATICA 
plins distintla. Ly tinesate ft numeri forma. 7” 
2 ExtraGiovadicum e§ arsthmericas pars long? digniffima, 


4 6, In artium orbs adbuc reat enulte Terra incog nites 3 Lines Geometricee funt realerquerhwis non finfiboss percep. roiler, 


4 Linea non conftas ¢ pun ve 

§ Linea /olide orisntur écorporss feFiong, 

6 Kgnalitas eft menfura inequalstatio. 

g Reonon datur ve Brrs, 

8 Ubs Angubfsat cquicruri Basis tantammsodeconftstuit Afferentian, 

9 Pyramis eft folicorum prima, ‘ 

i ‘oes 1 10 Equator ¢/e pracipua temporis menfie~de ’ 
bop ie ie ake melt difternere & difpanee, ' az nat pars utilifimanon adbuc rx ypotbefbus cobigenda ox: 

; i ter . i 
Agi lioeM forma Argumensi, : ets SAU ceed rallyacs 
a) rei seeks Hi per effetlum tanguam per aliquid norius nobis, | ° '% Aftrologia, quae dicitur judiciaria oft fami judi. ti cxperss , 


LoGcick&g. 


SR REAB SDA SESS REIT ABS DSTA 8 88 8 9 8 SD ol 8 eS BY 8 Be BD AB a SS 


effectus vero pev caufam ,tavquam per aliquid wotius natura. PHYSICA. 
§. Fortana( quae dicitur } eff partcula dteiv ee »ovidentice. ; 
6. eMatevia eff ommiung entinns a prino communts. pH vfice eff ars bene naturandi. Ie 
9. Eormaefi principiums diffingiionts, - ” a Phyficam traBands ordo p rf Gifieus exbiberar in primo Gontfes 
8. Pofita forma, ponuntur eft, diftintlio, & «perario: as Copite: 
9. Fir ia rei nsbit aliud off quam 144 bonitasy movens « fisitmers perf. fg: Adzquatum Phy fie fulj Hoe. Natura: 
cins ef. Burm, eee ’ mia 14 Hon inten pore, fed cumtemp sre mundus treabaiur: 
x0. Fintiin intentione ef finis concepts, finis in execution off finis | \g: I-finsta noo p ffunt effe princ pias 
natu’. : Die \ 6: Natura non agit nig virtwste prime caufes 
iL Exifiuntia eft Effentia aBuslie. AT: Angeli funt quansi qu.muss non cov poreis 
1 sa. Locus & Tempus funt antia meré Logica — é 2.8: Omnu incon Stans natura eff p rola: 
13 Dive fis & Oppofitts seque convenbs diffentive, fed non convenis a | <%: Eb-menta non as wnt ct patiuntur niff per qualitaters 
gtk ifentire. ° iis “lo, Monfrafunt? Sagarvivels nature smp:dua: 
34. Sola opcofita realiter diftingunntur, hit Gene atioet Corr 81 juat Propy & motes fd termini motus: 
1 15. Comp aratioid agit, ut compar ata eque nota evadant, 32: Qralitatum Pecep 1028 now fit. antensin fubjello fed arcs, ns 
1 16 Diftribution. ximé aecurata ef dicbot omnia 1 | 43: Sonus non eft mere Fifa aerys: 
ay. Tetum n difiibutone, foe a ee Dantur tref Anime in codem homine. 
is Aad ps  favane ditin@am & frecitbus, non feparatam. 3S. Res intedigitur Untelle Brow ved Vivitar IntelleGsune veflexd, 
420+ Teftimonium diviname yd pee Voluntas femper determinatur ab uliimo In- 
ry peystas 9 Bale : Spe mite 
et Dieta Axioma'ano™ onda apne. eA telleftus prattict Fudicio. 
iomate immediate, def tlogy ea tahe Pe MANIA ‘ open 
F earopesapncaseperie tae Ethica non datur {pecie distiutts a Theolo- 
25. Tertium eA rgumintumr ell [ylogifaai Arbiter, gia 
25 Explicats promas of fy Mogifmnun refu:asionis. piaee 


Cantabrigie NowAnglorum Idibuk Scxtilitas:; MOCLXXVIIL 


BASS 


Broadside of Theses for a Harvard Commencement, 1678. 


IE on ggg oQoGsP BEIM OCOD WEI GE 90 05 D> 26 9 GE IE OCDE OEE 69.069 OCIE OC IH MEDEWS Sm 2650 ac 


The Puritans 
@ITIOBHETOOCDO CICOCIGOEIOOTICG 


PT pa eer pee BS cys 


AOSD VL ee ee aS a ee Se i SSS SSeS 


tag ee 


———— * 


c@5 Chapter IX 


SCIENCE 


UBSEQUENT generations have generally assumed that the Puritans 
S in their day were hostile to experimental philosophy. “‘Science,”’ 
as we have understood it, portrays a world subject to immutable 
natural laws, and at first sight there would seem to be nothing in 
common between it and the Puritan conception of a universe in the 
control of an unpredictable deity. Yet the fact is that the Puritans 
were no more negligent in fostering scientific inquiry than any other 
group, and were as ready as others to accept the implications of the 
great scientific discoveries of the century. Even as late as 1650, it was 
the “absence of mathematical training in Oxford and Cambridge, 
not any imaginary hostility of Puritanism to mathematics,” + that pre- 
vented students of science from establishing a firm basis for research. 
Both in the English universities and at Harvard algebra was not 
studied, geometry was slighted, and physics taught by way of commen- 
taries on Aristotle. Free inquiry into natural phenomena was hin- 
dered much more by lack of adequate equipment than by theological 
opposition. 

There was indeed a religious reason for not giving the study of | 
nature too exalted an importance in the Puritan scale of values. The 
principal business of man in this life, as the Puritans saw it, was the . 
salvation of his soul, not the investigation of curious phenomena or 
the accumulation of irrelevant data. We must remember that in the 
seventeenth century natural science had not yet demonstrated its 
utility by the invention of time- and labor-saving devices, and that the 
best body of scientific theory available to educated persons still ex- 
plained very little and provided no indubitable certainty. Consequently 
John Cotton warned his hearers that the pursuit of scientific knowledge 
was a very unsatisfying occupation: 


. . . the study of these natural things, is not available to the attain- 
ment of true happinesse; For how should that which is restlesse . . . 
procure us setled rest and tranquillity, which accompanieth true 
happinesse? . . . In particular, the Study and Knowledge of the passing 
away of one Generation after another, sheweth us our mortality and 
misery, and thereby yeildeth us grief and vexation, but no reliefe if 
we rest there.” 


1 Samuel E. Morison, The Puritan Pronaos, p, 236. 
2 A Briefe Exposition... upon... Ecclesiastes (London, 1654), p. 13." 


729 


730 - The Puritans 


However, in such a passage Cotton was not speaking merely as a 
Puritan, he was voicing the traditional sense of Christian culture. He 
was actually far from condemning scientific inquiry altogether. In- 
deed, it is demonstrable that the very tenets of Puritanism favored 
such inquiry, and that the Puritans therefore welcomed phenomenal 
proof of natural law in the universe. 

The key to the Puritan conception of nature was the doctrine of | 
providence, of which Urian Oakes’s sermon is an excellent exposition 
(pp. 350-367). The natural world was God’s providence in operation. 
Man was free to study nature and arrive at such conclusions as his 
observations warranted, but the facts should not interest him as facts 
merely. The Puritan felt that unless he could see the divine purpose 
in the phenomenal world he had failed to interpret his facts correctly. 
For him nature was a revelation of the divine order which had pre- 
existed in the mind of God before it was incarnated in matter, and 
its highest value was symbolic. “The stately theater of heaven and 
earth,” said Thomas Shepard, is a visible manifestation of the in- 
visible wisdom: 


Every creature in Heaven and Barth j is a loud preacher of this truth: 
Who set those candles, those torches of heaven on the table? Who 
hung out those pee in heaven to enlighten a dark world? ... 
Who taught the Birds to build their nests, and the Bees to set up and 
order their commonwealth?! 


John Cotton expounded the Puritan attitude in a sermon upon Christ’s 
rebuke to the Pharisees, wherein he censured those who were versed in 
the signs of the weather, but not in the evidences of their salvation. A red 
sky at sunset generally does foretell a fine day, Cotton explained; there 
is some possibility of ascertaining a few natural sequences, and erecting 
the facts into a “law.” For this particular law Cotton offered his congre- 
gation the best scientific account he had been able to discover. A red 
cloud, he said, is a thin one into which the rays of the sun can pene- 
trate, thereby dissipating “‘the matter or cause of foule weather.”’ But 
in all explanations of this sort, ““every man that observes them to bee 
evident, yet findes them not alwaies certain’’; the best of philosophers 
“are not able to say that the event hath and will alwayes follow.” ? 
Furthermore, to what end is this knowledge? Only the lowest practical 

1 The Sincere Convert (London, 1652), p. 4. 

2 It is interesting to note that even when declaring that natural causes are unre- 
liable, Cotton suggests a natural explanation for this one failing to create its effect: 


“yet who can tell, but that the Sunne may gather up new clouds, from the other 
side of the Heaven, before it rise to us in the next morning.” 


Science | 731 


interest is served. It affects what business a man intends to do 
the next day, and “‘if he be crossed, it is not greatly material with 
him,”’ whereas the signs of his own spiritual condition involve his 
eternal welfare. Hence he who seeks scientific knowledge for its own 
sake alone, who is “‘very quick sighted in points of nature, but very 
dull and heavy in matters of Religion and grace,” endangers his soul. 
Yet a man who is not heavy and dull in matters of grace, who studies 
laws of the weather not to rest content with mechanistic solutions but 
to behold the workings of God within them, will secure true knowledge, 
“God having usually made this world to be a mappe and shadow of 
the spiritual estate of the soules of men.” It is not the study of nature 
that is dangerous, it is the study of nature in the wrong spirit; if the 
visible world is seen correctly, as the map and shadow of the spiritual 
estate of the beholder, as a means of divine communication with the 
devout worshiper, then the understanding of its laws and workings 
becomes an essential part of Christian knowledge: 


This serves to shew you, that it is not utterly unlawfull for men to 
make observation of the estate of the weather, and face of the sky; our 
Saviour doth not reproove it in them, but onely reprooves this, in 
that they were better skilled in the face of the sky, and signes of the 
weather, then in the signes of the times . . . hee rejects not such kind 
of conjectures, there is a workemanship of God in them, nor doth hee 
mislike the study of nature.! 


Indeed, not only did Cotton say that the investigation of nature was 
lawful, but in another connection he actually declared it to be the 
positive duty of all men: 


To study the nature and course, and use of all Gods works, is a 
duty imposed by God upon all sorts of men; from the King that sitteth 
upon the Throne to the Artificer.? 


Since nature was under God’s direction, God was responsible for the 
order, and it was the duty of the philosopher and theologian alike 
to formulate this order into “laws’’ of nature. 

Puritans did not forbid the teachings of the ‘‘new science’? during 
the seventeenth century, and often they were enthusiastic exponents 
of it; but the student of today must keep in mind that they never 
abandoned the assumption that God was sovereign and therefore re- 
served to himself the right to reverse or interrupt the laws of nature, 
which though usual, customary, and ordinary, were not inevitable. God 


1 Gods Mercie Mixed with His Iustice (London, 1641), pp. 113-134. 
2A Briefe Exposition... upon... Ecclesiastes, p. 23. 


nhs) ) | The Puritans 


could and sometimes did warn men by fire, flood, earthquake, and 
“blazing star,’ by apparition and providential intervention, in order 
that He might chasten whom He wished, condemn or save at will. 
Yet from the first, Puritans were disposed to place more emphasis upon 
the rules than upon the exceptions. John Cotton said that miracles 
were not to be multiplied without necessity.! Almost all the “‘special 
providences”’ by which men were saved from drowning or punished 
by plagues or conflagrations were viewed not as miracles, rending the 
appointed order, but as instances of God’s skillful management of 
causes to produce the proper effects in accordance with the laws of 
nature. “God can work miracles, but when ordinary means may be 
had, he will not work miracles.” 2 God will still deliver his faithful 
children out of Egypt, but not often by such a defiance of His own 
order as the division of the Red Sea: “‘we in these days have no 
promise of such a miraculous & immediate assistance; God works now 
by men and meanes, not by miracles.” + As the seventeenth century 
progressed, the conviction grew that God abided by His laws. Though 
all phenomena were still investigated for their spiritual meaning, still 
the Puritan became more and more assured that God almost without 
exception works within the frame of nature and not by doing violence 
to it. When Samuel Danforth points out to the general public in 
the 1665 almanac—the only periodical literature that circulated at 
the time—that the comet of 1664 is a divine portent of disaster, he is 
stating a traditional theory of honorable antiquity. When at the 
same time he holds it to be subject to natural law (see p. 738), he 
is expressing belief in the Copernican system,* whereas European 


1 Way of the Congregational Churches Cleared (London, 1648), Pt. I, 42 

2 Samuel Nowell, Abraham in Arms (Boston, 1678), p. 11. 

3 John Richardson, The Necessity of a Well Experienced Souldiery (Cambridge, 1679), 
p. 6. The interdependence of the religious beliefs and the scientific can be further 
illustrated from the fact that once Mrs. Hutchinson started on the road to theological 
heresy she was compelled to make rash assertions about the unimportance of second- 
ary causes. She horrified the Court by declaring that she had immediate revelations 
from God, and she sealed her doom in their opinion by asserting that God Himself 
had promised her He would deliver her from their persecution. They immediately 
asked her if she expected this deliverance by a miracle, “a work above nature,” or 
“from the hand of God by his providence.” John Cotton labored heroically to 
force her to confine herself to the second sort of expectation, and said before all the 
assembled people that if she believed she would be saved by a miracle, “I do not 
assent to, but look at it as a delusion.”’ She would not accept Cotton’s distinction, 
and was banished, among other reasons, for attributing to the deity too free a dis- 
position to work miracles in opposition to the laws of nature and of probability 
(Hutchinson, History, ed. Mayo, II, 384-391). 

4 Zechariah Brigden, a graduate of Harvard in 1657, brought out the almanac 
for 1659, wherein he eagerly displayed his acquaintance with Vincent Wing’s As- 


Science 733 


astronomers were usually forbidden to teach such doctrine until the 
end of the century:—here is the “‘new science’ which the young college 
graduates were so excitedly disseminating into every household through 
the medium of the yearly almanac (see p. 744). They had gleaned 
their information from their college textbooks: Robert Boyle’s Usefulness 
of Experimental Natural Philosophy (1663); Charles Morton’s Compendium 
Physicae—a manuscript text in use at Harvard till 1725; and especially 
from the popular Copernican expositions of Vincent Wing and Adrian 
Heereboord, whose works had acquainted the students with Galileo, 
Kepler, and Gassendi, even before the epochal discoveries of Halley 
and Newton. 

The Newtonian triumph established the concept of a necessary and 
inviolable system of law which God Himself cannot break even though 
he created it. All deists were followers of Newton, and there are deistic 
tendencies perceptible in Puritan writings, though the more central 
orthodoxy strove to reconcile God’s sovereign freedom and the reign of 
law. Perhaps the New England orthodox rationalism is most clearly. 
seen in Cotton Mather’s The Christian Philosopher (see p. 750). Mather 
therein attempts to show how divine order manifests itself throughout 
the phenomenal universe; he sees God as a creating force in the world 
of nature as well as a Divine Original for man’s spirit and mind. A 
pedant rather than a learned scholar, Mather depended upon a few 
intermediary works for his array of data; he quoted erudite sources 
at second hand, but the resulting compendium is enriched by obser- 
vations of his own which enunciate the deistic principle that God’s 
benevolence is manifested in the well-ordered beauty of Nature, ap- 
parent to man through his Reason. Such a point of view marks the 
beginning in America of the “enlightenment” which, first expounded 
by Franklin, Paine, and Jefferson, later flowered in Emerson and 
Thoreau. But Mather did not abandon his essentially Puritan view 
that Jehovah is a jealous God who can set all law aside to intervene 
directly in man’s affairs. If he realized the antinomy, he took no step 
to resolve it.! 

The colonists were as alert to the new discoveries in science as their 
English contemporaries who, under the aegis of Boyle, Pepys, Evelyn, 


tronomia instaurata (1656), the first work in English to popularize Copernicus, and a 
book already adopted as a text at Harvard. 

1 Evidently Mather was considered by the older generation somewhat ‘‘advanced,”’ 
for on December 23, 1714, Sewall notes: “Dr. C. Mather preaches excellently from 
Ps. 37. Trust in the Lord &c. only spake of the Sun in the centre of our System. I 
think it inconvenient to assert such Problems” (Diary, III, 31). 


734 | "The Putitans 


and Sprat were stimulating scientific inquiry by founding the Royal 
Society of London, membership in which body was conferred only 
for substantial scientific achievement. Governor John Winthrop, Jr., 
of Connecticut, was chosen fellow at the first regular election of the 
Society in 1663. He had brought with him to the colonies in the same 
year a three-and-one-half-foot telescope which he presented to Harvard 
College in 1672; Newton was assisted by observations made with it | 
in arriving at his laws of gravitation. Winthrop’s further active scien- 
tific inquiries and his communications of them to the Society (see 
p. 740), establish for him an important role in the history of American 
science. No other New Englanders were chosen members of the Society 
during the seventeenth century, though in 1683 a Philosophical Society 
was formed in Boston, modeled on the English counterpart; it met 
fortnightly for about ten years—the first of many scientific clubs in 
the English-speaking world founded on the plans of the ‘Illustrious 
Body”? in London. Cotton Mather was elected to the Royal Society 
probably in 1713, though as he never went to London to sign the 
constitution, he could never qualify as member in full standing. At 
the time of Thomas Brattle’s death in 1713 the Royal Society desired 
“his mss. relating to Astronomy, Musick and other parts of ye Mathe- 
maticks” so eagerly that they elected his brother William a member 
in the following year the more gracefully to procure them,! but William 
Brattle declined in modest deprecation of his own talents. The con- 
tributions of Winthrop and Thomas Brattle to pure science (see p. 739) 
were more substantial than those made by any other Americans of 
their day (see p. 758), though Paul Dudley, elected in 1721, was a fre- 
quent correspondent of the London body (see p. 747). John Leverett, 
elected in 1714, and Thomas Brattle are spoken of as having “‘many 
years since perus’d with delight their Transactions & recommended 
°em to their Pupils as the best standards of Natural Philosophy now 
extant”’;* and in truth, there were no higher scientific standards at 
that time. 

A discussion of the Puritan’s concern in science must inevitably 
touch upon the tragic witchcraft trials of 1692. One point must be 
clearly understood at the start: witches were creatures whose existence 
was questioned by no one in his right senses, and even as late as the 

1 Letter of Henry Newman to John Chamberlayne, Publications of the Colonial 
Society of Massachusetts, XXVIII (1935), 223. 

2 Ibid. Of the nine members from the American colonies elected before 1740, 
only William Byrd of Virginia was not a New Englander; Thomas Robie was elected 


in 1725; Zabdiel Boylston, 1726; Fitz-John Winthrop, 1734. The list of eighteen, 
carried to 1795, is in Samuel E. Morison, The Puritan Pronaos, p. 266. 


Science 735 


close of the seventeenth century hardly a scientist of repute in England 
but accepted certain phenomena as due to witchcraft. Three factors 
conjoined to start the trouble in New England,—where after all it 
played but a small role in the drama of a great delusion. First, since 
God could intervene directly in the natural order of events, He there- 
fore could manifest His power against His adversaries in the invisible 
world; in the second place, no class of Jiterature at the time more 
deeply impressed all classes of men than chronicles and narratives 
written to demonstrate remarkable providences wherein God inter- 
posed Himself in man’s affairs; finally, it was not only the privilege 
but the duty of ministers to record such providences, for by their 
scholarly training and priestly office they were peculiarly fitted to 
perceive, interpret, and justify God’s way to man. Now to observe 
the fatal conjunction of these separately reasonable views.1 

Four children in Boston were seized by convulsions, and accused 
an old woman of bewitching them; the woman confessed her guilt, 
was tried, condemned, and executed by a most orderly procedure of 
law. The children still being “‘sadly molested with Evil Spirits,” their 
minister Cotton Mather gave them spiritual consolation—psychiatric 
ministrations perhaps—to such good effect that they recovered. Elated 
-by his success, Mather immediately published Memorable Providences, 
Relating to Witchcrafis and Possessions (1689), but his book, with its 
lurid details, instead of leading readers to see that God’s power once 
again had triumphed over Satan, was seized upon by some of the more 
emotionally unstable as an exciting manual for the practice of witch- 
craft. Undue prominence was therefore given to abnormal states of 
mind. The situation was badly out of hand by 1692, when an outburst 
of accusations against witches gained headway in Salem Village (Dan- 
vers)—a parish that evidently had more than its share of neurotic 
women and hysterical children, and less than it needed of understand- 
ing leaders. By September, twenty people and two dogs had been exe- 
cuted as witches, one hundred and fifty were in prison awaiting trial, 
and two hundred more stood accused. Yet the Court, chosen by 
Governor Phips, and composed of distinguished citizens, had reviewed 


1 Two books especially shouldbe noted among the great number that deal with 
the history of witchcraft in New England: George L. Burr, ed., Narratives of the Witch- 
craft Cases (New York, 1914), a reprint of essential documents with an introduction 
that discusses many details; and George L. Kittredge, Witchcraft in Old and New 
England (Cambridge, 1929), a work that treats the history of the subject in its 
wider implications. A brief summary of ‘Witchcraft’? is included in Samuel E. 
Morison, The Puritan Pronaos, pp. 248-257, to which this summary is at a few points 
indebted. . 


736 sh Ag The Puritans 


the cases according to established law and had proceeded against the 


accused only after deliberation among themselves and upon the advice _ 


of leading ministers. 


The point at issue was this: alleged victims claimed they were at-: 


tacked by spirits in the likeness of some resident whom they identified. 
Was the evidence of mere allegation sufficient to convict the accused? 
If it was, who could escape hanging once the accusation were made? 
In Europe the best legal opinion, available to the New England court, 
advised that such “‘spectral evidence’? was not adequate by itself to 
convict, yet those sitting in judgment at Salem continued to admit it 
as sole basis for conviction. The position in which even the most con- 
servative and clear-headed gentlemen found themselves is well ex- 
pressed by Thomas Brattle in “A Full and Candid Account of the 
Delusion called Witchcraft”’ (see p. 758). The tragedy is not difficult 
to comprehend when we recognize the frenzy and mass madness 
which confused even the wisest. As soon as the enormity of the panic 
became evident, the ministers gathered to find'a way to stop it. That 
way seemed clearly to attack “‘spectral evidence’’—the one real flaw 
in the legal machinery. Increase Mather therefore wrote a pamphlet, 
Cases of Conscience concerning Evil Spirits (1693), at first circulated in 
manuscript, in which he affirms his belief that witches exist, prays 
that none will think him unfair to the judges, who “are wise and good 
men, and have acted with all Fidelity according to their Light” ;+ but 
he states positively, ““This notwithstanding, I will add; It were better 
that Ten Suspected Witches should escape, than that one Innocent 
Person should be Condemned.”?? The Governor harkened especially 
to the opinion presented by twelve ministers therein added as a Post- 
script, which condemned the uses that the Court had made of spectral 
evidence; he ruled such evidence out, and without it the cases fell 
through; accusations were dropped, and the condemned—if they re- 
canted—were free. But a great blot remained, even though indem- 
nities were granted bereaved families. Five years later the noblest 
among the deliberative body, Samuel Sewall, rose in church to make 
public confession and ask humble forgiveness for the part he had 
taken in supporting a procedure which he had good reason to know 
was not sound. 

In the dispassion of a long-range view of the facts we do not en- 
tirely credit Robert Calef’s prejudiced tirade directed against the part 
which the ministers played in the affair, headed by Increase Mather, 
—who, mistaken, yet was honest. We can only realize that eminently 

1 Page 70. 2 Page 66. 3 Diary, I, 445. 


re 


Science 737 


sane leaders of church and state, acting in accordance with the ac- 
cepted scientific beliefs of their day, became momentarily victims of 
mass frenzy; they soon came to their senses and revised their legal 
and sociological viewpoint toward the wonders of the invisible world. 
Witches were never again brought to trial in New England, even 
though witchcraft trial continued in England till well into the eight- 
eenth century. 

It is pleasant to turn from the misty mid-regions of demonology 
to relate in a few words the story of the role played by Puritans in 
the development of preventive medicine. The place of medicine in the 
New England colonies is elsewhere briefly discussed (see p. 386), but 
one phase of it, the introduction of smallpox inoculation, deserves 
special record. In April, 1721, an epidemic of smallpox spread through 
Boston and vicinity, and. by June had struck down nearly fifty-nine 
hundred persons; eight hundred and forty-four died. Cotton Mather, 
whose essays to do good were never more productive of beneficial 
results, recalled that he had not only read about the favorable out- 
come of inoculation as reported in the Transactions of the Royal 
Society,! but that his slave Onesimus claimed to have recovered from 
the dread disease after some such treatment in Africa. Mather sug- 
-gested to the Boston physicians that they might profitably give in- 
oculation a trial, but only Zabdiel Boylston among them agreed with 
him. To be sure, it was a risky undertaking, for the method in use 
was still untested. Boylston had been attacked by the disease some 
years before, hence it was useless to experiment on himself. He there- 
fore tried out the method on his willing children and servants. The 
town was horrified and ready to cry murder if any of them died. A 
pamphlet war started between the proponents of inoculation, led by 
Increase and Cotton Mather, Boylston, and Benjamin Colman on the 
one side, and on the other a very much aroused opposition headed 
by the physician William Douglass. Feeling rose to such a pitch that 
the lives of Boylston and Cotton Mather were actually endangered 
by mob violence. But the good effects of inoculation became apparent 
—of two hundred and forty-one persons treated, only six died—and 
a bill introduced in the legislature aiming to forbid inoculation by 
law failed to pass. In November, 1721, a report of the treatment of 
cases—the first clinical treatise ever written on the subject—was com- 
municated to the Royal Society and published in their Transactions 2 
(see p. 763). It is a document of prime importance in medical history, 


1 See Vol. XXX (1714-1716). 
2Vol. XXXII (1721), 33-35, No. 370. 


738 The Puritans 


and one which appropriately closes the first period of scientific inquiry 
in this country.! 


SAMUEL DANFORTH, 1626-1674 


[The significance of An Astronomical Description of the Late Comet or 
Blazing Star... (Cambridge, 1665), by Samuel Danforth, lies in the 
fact that though it holds comets to be divine portents of disaster, it 
recognizes that they are not ‘“‘Exhalations,’’ but stellar phenomena, 
subject to natural law. . 

Danforth was born in Cambridge and graduated from Harvard in 
1643. For some years he devoted his time to astronomical studies, 
and prepared the yearly Almanacs from 1645 to 1649. In them he 
presented descriptions of heavenly bodies as well as specimens of his 
poetry. He was ordained at Roxbury as assistant to john Eliot in 
1650, and remained there as pastor for twenty-four years—until he 
“passed from Natural Health, to Eternal Peace.’ 

See Cotton Mather, Magnalia, IV, 153 (whence the quotation); 
Sibley, Biographical Sketches, 1, 88-92. For an account of astronomy in 
early New England, see Samuel E. Morison, Harvard College in the 
Seventeenth Century, chap. X.] 


AN ASTRONOMICAL DESCRIPTION 


I. This Comet 1s no sublunary Meteor or sulphureous Exhalation, but a 
Celestial Luminary, moving in the starry Heavens. 

The Truth hereof may be demonstrated, 1. By the vast Dimensions 
of it’s body. Some Comets have been observed by Astronomers to be 
halfe as big as the Moon, some bigger then the Moon, yea some bigger 
then the Earth. The exact Dimensions of this Comet, I may not pre- 
sume to determine, but it seemeth not to be of the smallest size. Now 
*tis not easy to imagine how the Earth should afford matter for a Meteor 
of such a huge magnitude, except we grant the greater part of the 
lower World, to be turned into an exhalation. 2. By the smalness of 
it’s Parallax. The Parallax is the Distance between the true place of a 

1 An interest in natural history and botany was very slow to develop in New 
England, and the fact is surprising in view of the alertness of Puritans to physical 
science. Fitz-John Winthrop, F.R.S., was the only New Englander to win a place 
for himself as a naturalist before 1750. The greatest colonial naturalist was John 
Bartram of Pennsylvania, called by Linnaeus the greatest botanist in the world. 
Others who made contributions of value on the fauna and flora of the country were 
John Banister, William Byrd, Mark Catesby, John Clayton, and John Mitchell— 
all of Virginia. 


Science 739 


Planet and the apparent. The lower and neerer any Planet is to the Earth, 
it hath the greater Parallax.... 

IV. This Comet is not a new fixed Star, but a Planetick or Erratick Body, 
wandring up G down in the ethertal firmament under the fixed stars. 

Some learned Astronomers distinguish these more noble and celestial 
Phenomena or Appearances into Fixed and Erratick. Several new Stars 
have appeared which are fixed, 7.e. they keep the same place in the 
Heavens, and the same distance from the fixed Stars. One in Cassiopeia 
Anno 1572. which continued a year and four months... . 

Iuly 20 1663. That bright and radiant Star, a Star of the first mag- 
nitude, Mr. Samuel Stone,’ the strength and glory of Connecticut, rested 
from his Jabours and sorrows, and fell a sleep sweetly and placidly in 
the Lord. A little before Him, Mr John Miller 2 and Mr. Samuel New- 
man,* faithful, painful and affectionate Preachers of the Gospel, were 
also taken from us by death. ‘Thus our Pillars are cut down, our strong- 
est Stakes pluck’t up, and our breaches not repaired. Is it a small 
thing in our eyes, our principal Congregations & Head-townes, should 
be so badly bereaved, as they are at this day? 

3. The sad Mildew and Blasting, whereby we have been greatly 
afflicted the last Summer, and some of us the Summer before: our 
principal grain being turned into an husk & rotteness. 

4. Severe Drought this last Summer, which burnt up the Pastures and 
the latter growth. ike 

5. Early Frosts, which smote our Indian Corn, and greatly impov- 
erished our latter Harvest. 

Unto these and some other no less threatning Visitations, is super- 
added this strange and fearful Appearance in the Heavens, which is 
now seconded by a new Appearance this Spring, concomitant to the 
translation of our Honoured and Aged Governour, Mr. John Endicot,' 
from hence to a better World: By all which doubtless the Lord calls 
upon New-England to awake and to repent. 


To this End Consider. 


1. What a jealous eye the Lord hath upon us, observing how we 
carry and behave our selves at such a time as this. 


JOHN WINTHROP, JR., 1605/6-1676 


[John Winthrop, Jr., eldest son of Governor Winthrop, was prob- 
ably the most versatile colonial figure in the seventeenth century. After 
attending Trinity College, Dublin, for two years, he was admitted to 


740 | The Puritans 


the Inner Temple, London, in 1624. He traveled widely before emi- 
grating to New England in 1631, where he founded Ipswich and New 
London. As governor of Connecticut he secured exceptional privileges _ 
for the Colony. His business acumen and public benefactions in both » 
colonies earned for him the respect and affection of all men. Even 
though far removed from England, he remained in terms of warm 
intimacy with Wren, Boyle, Stirk, Digby, and Newton. Indeed, he 
may rightly be claimed as the first American scientist. As physician 
he explored the composition of plants and minerals, took notes on his 
investigations, and communicated the results to the Royal Society of 
London. In 1663 he was elected a Fellow of that body, the first colonial 
so honored. The remains of his library, oe in scientific lore, are now 
in the New York Society Library. 

The letter here quoted from the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal 
Society of London was published in 1670 (V, 1151-1153), and is a 
fair sample of the scientific observations then being gathered. See Dic- 
tionary of American Biography; Tyler, A History of American Literature, I, 
g9—103; II, 311-312. See especially Samuel E. Morison, Builders of the 
Bay Colony, chap. IX.] 


AN EXTRACT OF A LETTER, 


WRITTEN BY JOHN WINTHROP EsQ; GOVERNOUR OF CONNECTICUT IN 
New ENGLAND, TO THE PUBLISHER, CONCERNING SOME NATURAL 
CURIOSITIES OF THOSE PARTS, ESPECIALLY A VERY STRANGE AND VERY 
CURIOUSLY CONTRIVED FIsH, SENT FOR THE REPOSITORY OF THE 
R. Society. 


KNOW not, whether I may recommend some of the productions 
I of this Wilderness as rarities or novelties, but they are such as 
the place affords. There are, amongst the rest, 2. or 3. smal Oaks, 
which though so slender and low (as you may see, if they come safe) 
have yet Acorns and cups upon them, so that it may be truly said, 
that there is a Country, where Hoggs are so tall, that they eat acorns 
upon the standing growing Oakes. This is every year visible in many 
parts here, there being of this sort of dwarf-Oak whole Forrests in 
the Inland Country; too many for the Husband-man, who finds that 
sort of land most difficult to break up at first with his plough, in re- 
gard that the whole surface is fill’d with spreading strong roots of 
this sort of Oak. Neither must it be thought, that they are small shoots, 
which in time would grow big trees; for, where these grow, there are 
no great Oaks, or very few amongst them. But whether it be a novelty 


Science 741 


to see such kind of dwarf-trees bearing acorns, I know not: It was to 
me, having not seen the like (as far as I remember,) in England or 
France, or other parts. Mean time I have observed, that in some Plains, 
full of these shrubs, there have been no acorns on most of them; but 
whether in other years they were not fruitful, I know not. Some years, 
we know, even the great Oaks bear no fruit, which are very full at 
other times; but this year throughout the whole Country there is 
plenty of acorns; and I should be glad to be informed, whether this 
year they have been also abounding in England, or other parts of 
Europe; and if so, or not so, possibly something not altogether in- 
considerable may be thence inferr’d. Besides, if such dwarfish Oakes, 
as these, should be found in other parts of the World, it were not amiss, 
me thinks, to inquire, Whether it be not some Mineral ground, where 
these grow; and if so, what sorts of Minerals those places afford? 

There are also sent you some pieces of the Bark of a Tree, which 

grows in WNova-Scotia, and (as I hear) in the more Easterly parts of 
N. England. Upon this bark there are little knobs, within which there 
is a liquid matter like Turpentine (which will run out, the knob being 
cut open) of a very sanative nature, as I am informed by those, who 
affirm, that they have often tryed it. 
_ In the same Box are Pods of a Vegetable, we call Sz/k-grass, which 
are full of a kind of most fine down-like Cotton-wool, many such 
flocks in one and the same pod ending in a flat Seed. ’Tis used to 
stuff up Pillows and Cushions; being tryed to spin, it proves not strong 
enough. The Seeds ’tis like may grow with you, if set in some Garden; 
whereby the whole Plant may be seen. 

You’! find also a Branch of the Tree, call’d the Cotton-tree, bearing 
a kind of Down which also is not fit to spin. The Trees grow high and 
big. At the bottom of some of the Leaves, next to the stalk of them, is 
a knob, which is hollow, and a certain fly, some-what like a pis-mire- 
fly, is bred therein. 

More-over, there are some of the Matrices, in which those Shels are 
bred, of which the Jndians make the white Wampanpeage, one sort of 
their mony: They grow on the bottom of Sea-bays, and the shels are 
like Periwinkles, but greater. Whilst they are very smal, and first 
growing, many of them are within one of the concave receptacles of 
these Matrices, which are very tough, and strong, so contrived, that 
they are separate from one another, yet so, that each of them is fastned 
to a kind of skin, subtended all along to all these cases or baggs. 

There is, besides, in a large round Box, a strange kind of Fish, which 
was taken by a Fisherman, when he was fishing for Codfish in that 


742 3 The Puritans 


Sea, which is without Massachuset Bay in N. England. It was living, 
when it was taken, which was done, I think, by an hook. The name _ 
of it I know not, nor can I write more particularly of it, because I 
could not yet speak with the Fisherman, who brough it from Sea. I 
have not seen the like. The Mouth is in the middle; and they say, 
that all the Arms, you see round about, were in motion, when it was 
first taken, i): /¢ 


LEONARD HOAR 


[Though Leonard Hoar is remembered primarily as an educator 
(see p. 707), he had the born scientist’s love for investigating natural 
phenomena at first hand. The letter here reproduced is from Boyle, 
Works (1744), V, 642, 643. Robert Boyle (1627-1691), natural phi- 
losopher and chemist, was a founder of the Royal Society of London, 
a voluminous writer, and one of the greatest scientists of his day. He 
was deeply interested in theology, and a student of Hebrew, Greek, 
Chaldee, and Syriac. The letter has been reprinted in Sibley, Bio- 
graphical Sketches, 1, 588-590; and in Samuel E. Morison, Harvard College 
in the Seventeenth Century, 644-646. ] 


MR. LEONARD HOAR TO MR. ROBERT BOYLE. 
Cambridge, New-England, December the 13th, 1672. 


IGHT honourable, 

Your freedom and courteous treating me, when hither coming, 
giveth me the hardiness to present you with my acknowledgments, 
although it be but your interpellation; judging it better, that I were 
censured for troublesomness, than for ingratitude. Yea the chiefest of 
this colony, a poor, but yet pious and industrious people, know and 
acknowledge your kindness often and on considerable occasions ex- 
pressed towards them, in their just defences, Gc. although they know 
not where or how to publish their tabula votiva, or memorials of it 
unto your acceptation, but still do gratefully recommend you and your 
well-devoted labours in their prayers to God; and any publick affair 
them concerning, that shall unexpectedly, emerge unto your prudence, 
love and candor, hoping, that nothing shall ever be believed or con- 
cluded against them before that they be heard. 

Noble Sir, I am not unmindful of your desires to see what rarities 
the country might yield; and have taken course, that now be pre- 
sented to you, first, a sort of berries, that grow closely conglomerated 
unto the stalk of a shrub, in its leaf, smell and taste, like the broadest 


Shee tae 743 


leaved myrtle, or to a dwarf-bay; which, by plain distillation, yields 
an almost unctuous matter; and by decoction, not a resina, nor oil, 
but a kind of serum, such as I have not known ordinarily for any 
vegetables. I believe it excels for the wind-colick. 

Though I thought myself an indifferent botanist for any thing could 
grow in England, yet here in our wild plants | am presently [at a loss] 
but I hope I shall in season search out their pedigrees; and would be 
free to gratify any person valuing them with their seeds, or bodies dried. 
Mr. Alexander Balaam,: my master in those studies, and a person well 
known to Mr. Charles Howard and Dr. Morrison,? are now in your land. 

Also (pardon, I beseech you, the confidence) I make bold to pre- 
sent your honour with a model of our natives ships. With one of them 
twenty foot long they will carry six or eight persons, their house and 
furniture and provisions, by one padling her forwards in the stern, 
swifter than any sculler. And when they come to falls, or would go 
over the land, [the passengers] load themselves away with the ship 
and her freight too. 

I doubt they are not for the wars; for if you but stamp hard, you 
may strike out the bottom; and if you lay your tongue on one side 
of your mouth, it may over-set. 

Also Sir, a piece of their plate, a fish I call the sea-spider, and some 
stones, I doubt more ponderous than precious; but that your honour 
will prove. 

It hath pleased even all to assign the college for my Sparta. I desire 
I may adorn it; and thereby encourage the country in its utmost 
throws for its resuscitation from its ruins. And we still hope some 
helpers from our native land; of which your honoured self, Mr. A. 
and some others have given a pledge. 

A large well-sheltered garden and orchard for students addicted to 
planting; an ergasterium for mechanick fancies; and a laboratory chem- 
ical for those philosophers, that by their senses would culture their 
understandings, are in our design, for the students to spend their times of 
recreation in them; for readings or notions only are but husky provender. 

And, Sir, if you will please of your mature judgment and great 
experience to deign us any other advice or device, by which we may 
become not only nominal, but real scholars, it shall, I hope, be as 
precious seed, of which both you and me and many by us shall have 
uberous provent at the great day of reckoning, which I know you do 
respect above all. 

If I durst, I would beg one of a sort of all your printed monuments, 
to enrich our library, and encourage our attempts this way. 


744 Oo, The: Bantans! 


I know nothing so stunting our hopes and labours in this way, as 
that we want one of a sort of the books of the learned, that come forth 
daily in Europe, of whose very names we are therefore ignorant. 


To Mr. Ashhurst I have written more. Let not, I beseech you, my © 


prolixity tire or deter your acception of pane hinted, or your honour’s 
condonation of 
Your devoted humble servant, 


Leonard Hoar. 


NOADIAH RUSSELL anp WILLIAM WILLIAMS 


[The Cambridge Ephemeris for 1684 was brought out by Noadiah 
Russell (1659-1713), a graduate of Harvard in 1681, who after teach- 
ing at Ipswich for three and one-half years, returned in 1688 to his 
birthplace, Middletown, Connecticut, as minister where he thence- 
forth remained. He was a founder and trustee of Yale College, and 
among the framers of the Saybrook Platform. (See Sibley, Biographical 
Sketches, 111, 216-222.) 

William Williams (1665-1741) prepared the Cambridge diane 
for 1685. Born in Newton, he was graduated from Harvard in 1683, and 
was later settled as pastor in Hatfield, where he died. Among his pub- 
lished discourses is the Massachusetts Election Sermon for 1719. (See | 
Sibley, zbid., III, 263-269.) 

The almanac science of 1684 and 1685 is quaint only in relation 
to present-day knowledge. It was alert to the latest advancements and 
_ free from religious cant. For a summary of developments of astronomy, 
see Samuel E. Morison, Harvard College in the Seventeenth Century, 216-222. 
The text for both selections is from photostat copies of the unique 
originals in possession of the Massachusetts Historical Society. ] 


FROM THE ALMANAC FOR 1684. 


CoNCERNING LIGHTNING, AND THUNDER, WITH SOME OBSERVATIONS 
AND CAUTIONS TOUCHING THE SAME. 


IGHTNING is an exhalation hot and dry, as also hot and moist; 
which being Elevated by the Sun to the middle Region of the 

Air, is there included or shut up within a cloud and cannot ascend; 
but by an Antiperistasis grows hotter and is enkindled, attenuated, and 
so seeks for more room, which it not finding in the cloud, violently 
rends the same, breaks out of it, and continues burning so long that it 
comes to the very ground.—By its rending of the cloud, there is caused 


Science 745 


a most dreadful noise or rumbling, and this we call Thunder: So that 
Thunder is improperly reckoned among the kinds or species of Meteors. 

Of Lightning, [ fulmen] there are three sorts, vz. piercing, [| Terebrans], 
dashing in pieces [disentiens] and burning [wrens] Piercing Lightning 
(which is also called white Lightning,) does consist of a most Subtile 
and thin exhalation and is very penetrating. 

Observ. By reason of its subtile nature, many strange effects are 
produced thereby; A sword blade will be melted in its scabbard, and 
the scabbard not hurt at all: The pores in the scabbard are so great, 
that this Lightning passeth through them without any hurt, but coming 
to a more solid body (as the sword blade is) it meets with opposition 
there, and so through its heat melts it. 

The Second sort of Lightning, is such as consists of a more fat and 
thick exhalation, which meeting with things, burnes not to ashes, but 
blasts and scorcheth them. 

Observ. With this Lightning, there happens to be (yet seldome) a 
Stone, that is called a Thunderbolt, which breaketh forth with the exha- 
lation, (as a bullet out of a gun) and breaks into pieces whatever it meets. 
When it strikes the earth it is reported to go not above five foot deep. 

The Third sort of Lightning is fulmen urens [burning Lightning] and 
_ is more fiery then flamy; of a more grosse and earthy substance then 
the preceding sorts. 
~Observ. If Lightning kill one in his sleep, he dyes with his eyes 
opened, the Reason is because it just wakes him and kills him before 
he can shut his eyes again: If it kills one waking his eyes will be found 
to be shut, because it so amaseth him, that he winketh and dyes before 
he can open his eyes again. | 

Caution. It is not good to stand looking on the lightning at any 
time, for if it hurts no otherway, yet it may dry up or so waste the 
Chrystalline Humour of the eyes that it may cause the sight to perish, 
or it may swell the face, making it to break out with scabs, caused by 
a kind of poyson in the exhalation which the pores of the face and 


eyes do admit. 
FINIs. 


FROM THE ALMANAC FOR 1685. 
CONCERNING THE NATURE OF COMETS, &c. 


OMETS are judged by many excellent Philosophers to be Meteors, 
whose matter is an Exhalation, hot and dry, fat and clammy; 
drawn by vertue of the heavenly bodies into the highest part of the 


740 ) | The Puritans 


Air, (and sometimes into the Starry region) where it is closely con- 
glutinated into a great Lump, by reason of supply that it hath from 
below, so long as there is a working to exhale: and being thus com- 
pacted, it is set on fire in convenient time by the excessive heat of 
the place where it resteth: Sometimes they continue burning long, 
sometimes but a little time, seven dayes is reckoned to be the least, 


whereas some have continued 6 months and more, all which commeth. 


to pass by reason of the paucity or plenty of the matter whereof it 
consisteth. 

There are 2 things observable in Comets. The colour and the form 
or Fashion, both which proceed from the diverse disposing of the 
matter. 

Their colours are principally 3. White, which comes to pass when 
the matter is thin 2. Ruddy, looking like fire when the matter is 
meanly thick. 3 Of a blew colour when the matter is very thick. 

Their forms or Fashions are principally. 2. 1 Roundish, having 
beams round about them, which happens when the matter is thin on 
the edges and thick every there else 2 They appear with a beard or 


tail, which happens when the matter is but meanly thick towards 


some one side or other and rather long then round. 

Thus are Comets made to be meteors, and certain it is that there 
are difficulties which will arise from the other notion which some 
have of them, which may be as difficult yea far more difficult to a 
rational head then any that will proceed from this notion we have 
here presented you with. 

The cheifest objections against this opinion seem to me to be two. 
The one is the greatness and duration or long continuance of Comets 
sometimes. The other objection is grounded upon the place of the 
Comets existence sometimes, it being found to be above the Moon. 

As for the first objection (which might have been made two) Cer- 
tain it is that a spoonfull of water will yield a vapor an 100 times as 
big as to its dilation, and since so why may not the like be rationally 
asserted of fumes or earthy exhalations, that tho’ in themselves they 
may be very large yet originally very small: and if this is considered 
we need not wonder that the earth yields so much of exhalations as 
to cause such vast beings as Comets are and yet to the eye loose nothing 
of its bigness. 

As for the other objection; all the answer, I shall give to it, may be 
seen in tendring to consideration these two things. | 

1 That after Comets are above the highest region of the air, or 
the Moon yet they are under the starry heaven which hath an at- 


Science 747 


tractive power 2 That the nature of the place aboue the Moon is 
falsly concieved of, if imagined to be really different from [the] place 
below the Moon, Now if thus why may not Comets ascend above the 
Moon as well as up to the Moon. 

FINIs. 


PAUL DUDLEY, 1675-1750/51 


[Paul Dudley, son of Governor Joseph Dudley of Massachusetts, 
began life after graduation from Harvard College in 1690 as a lawyer. 
Soon appointed attorney-general, he later became Chief Justice of 
Massachusetts. Intellectually curious, he was alive to every cultural 
development, especially in natural philosophy. His unbending man- 
nerisms, aristocratic background, wealth, and religious bigotry lent 
easy target during his lifetime and after for the opprobrious detrac- 
tions which his high office made inevitable. The dispassionate judg- 
ment of time, however, reveals him as a jurist of probity and courage. 
By his will Harvard received the endowment of what were soon known 
as the Dudleian Lectures, for which incumbents are still annually 
chosen. 

After contributing his account of maple-sugar making in New Eng- 
land to the Royal Society of London in 1720, Dudley was elected a 
Fellow of that learned body. During the course of the next fifteen 
years he submitted eleven more papers—all published in due course— 
ranging from accounts of the rattlesnake and of Niagara Falls to “‘An 
Essay upon the Natural History of Whales.” 

See Dictionary of American Biography; and especially Sibley, Biographi- 
cal Sketches, IV, 42-54. The text of the essay on sugar making is from 
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London, XXXI (1720), 
No. 364 (pp. 27, 28); that of the essay on hiving of bees, ibid., No. 367 


(pp. 148-150).] 


VII. AN ACCOUNT OF THE METHOD OF MAKING 
SUGAR FROM THE JUICE OF THE MAPLE 
TREE IN NEW ENGLAND. 


By Paut Dub ey, Esq; F.R.S. 


APLE Sugar is made of the Juice of Upland Maple, or Maple 
Trees that grow upon the Highlands. You box the Tree, as 
we call it, z.e. make a hole with an Axe, or Chizzel, into the Side 
of the Tree, within a Foot of the Ground; the Box you make may 


748 : The Puritans 


hold about a Pint, and therefore it must shelve inwards, or towards 
the bottom of the Tree; you must also bark the Tree above the Box, 
to steer or direct the Juice to the Box. 

You must also Tap the Tree with a small Gimblet below your Box, 
so as to draw the Liquor off. When you have pierced or tapp’d your 
Tree, or Box, you put in a Reed, or Pipe, or a bit of Cedar scored 


with a Channel, and put a Bowl, Tray, or small Cask at the Foot of the , 


Tree, to receive your Liquor, and so tend the Vessels as they are full. 

After you have got your Liquor, you boil it in a Pot, Kettle, or Cop- 
per. Ten Gallons will make somewhat better than a pound of Sugar. 

It becomes Sugar by the thin part evaporating in the boiling, for 
you must boil it till it is as thick as Treacle. Ten Gallons must boil 
till it comes to a pint and half. 

A Kettle of twenty Gallons will be near 16 Hours in boiling, before 
you can reduce it to three Pints; a good Fire may do it sooner. 

When you take it off, you must keep almost continually stirring it, 
in order to make it Sugar: otherwise it will candy as hard as a Rock. 

Some put in a little Beef Sewet, as big as a Walnut, when they take 
it off the Fire, to make it turn the better to Sugar, and to prevent its 
candying, but it will do without. A good large Tree will yield twenty 
Gallons. The Season of the Year is from the beginning of February to 
the beginning of April. 


Mr. Dudley in a following Letter adds this Note. 


I have nothing to add to my Chapter of Maple Sugar, but that 
our Physicians look upon it not only to be as good for common use 
as the West India Sugar, but to exceed all other for its Medicinal 
Virtue. 


VII. AN ACCOUNT OF A METHOD LATELY FOUND 
OUT IN NEW-ENGLAND, FOR DISCOVERING 
WHERE THE BEES HIVE IN THE WOODS, 
IN ORDER TO: GET / THEIR: (HONEY. 


By THE SAME Mr. DUuDLEY. 


HE HUNTER in a clear Sun-shiny day, takes a Plate or Trencher, 
with a little Sugar, Honey or Molosses spread on it, and when 

got into the Woods, sets it down on a Rock or Stump in the Woods: 
this the Bees soon scent and find out; for ’tis generally supposed a Bee 
will scent Honey or Wax above a Mile’s distance. The Hunter secures 
in a Box or other Conveniency, one or more of the Bees as they fill 


RO — 1 ae ee 


Science | 749 


themselves, and after a little time, lets one of them go, observing very 
carefully the Course the Bee steers; for after he rises in the Air, he flies 
directly, or upon a streight Course to the Tree where the Hive is. 

In order to this, the Hunter carries with him his Pocket Compass, 
his Rule, and other Implements, with a Sheet of Paper, and sets down 
the Course, suppose it be West; by this he is sure the Tree must be 
somewhere in a West Line from where he is, but wants to know the 
exact Distance from his Station; in order to determine that, he makes 
an off-set either South or North (we’ll suppose North) an hundred 
Perch or Rod, (if it be more, it will still be more exact, because the 
Angle will not be so acute) then he takes out another Bee and lets 
him go, observing his Course also very carefully, for he being loaded 
will, as the first, (after he is mounted a convenient height) fly directly 
to the Hive; this second Course, (as I must call it) the Hunter finds 
to be South, 54 Degrees West; then there remains nothing but to find 
out where the two Courses intersect, or, which is the same thing, the 
Distance from B to A, or from C' to A, as in the Figure, Tab. 3d. for 
there the Honey-Tree is. 

For which Reason, if the Course of the second Bee from C' had been 
South-west, and by South, wz. to D, then the Hive-Tree must have 
been there, for there the Lines are found to intersect. 

The Foundation of all this is the streight or direct motion of Bees, 
when bound home with their Honey, and this is found to be certain 
by the Observation and Experience of our Hunters every Year, and 
especially of late Years, since this Mathematical way of finding Honey 
in the Woods has been used with such Success. 

An ingenious Man of my Acquaintance the last Year took two or 
three of his Neighbours that knew nothing of the matter, and after 
he had taken his Bees, set the Courses the first and second Bee steered, 
made the off-set, and taken the Distance from the two Stations to 
the Intersection, he have orders to cut down such a Tree, pointing 
to it; the Labourers smiled, and were confident there was no Honey 
there, for they could not perceive the Tree to be hollow, or to have 
any hole for the Bees to enter by, and would have disswaded the Gentle- 
man from felling the Tree, but he insisted on it, and offered to lay 
them any Wager that the Hive was there, and so it proved to the 
great surprize of the Country-men. 

I cannot dismiss this Subject, without acquainting you, that all the 
Bees we have in our Gardens, or in our Woods, and which now are 
in great numbers, are the produce of such as were brought in Hives 
from England near a hundred Years ago, and not the natural produce 


[LO | The Puritans 


of this part of America; for the first Planters of New England never 
observed a Bee in the Woods, until many Years after the Country 
was settled; but that which proves it beyond question is, that the 


Aborigines (the Indians) have no word in their Language for a Bee, as | 


they have for all Animals whatsoever proper to, or aboriginally of the 
Country, and therefore for many Years called a Bee by the name of 
English Man’s Fly. 

Our People formerly used to find out Honey in the Woods, by sur- 
prizing and following one Bee after another by the Eye, till at length 
they found out where the Bees hived. 

I will mention another thing with respect to Bees, tho’ I don’t 
know but it may have been commonly observed; and that is, when 
they Swarm they never go to the Northward, but move Southward, 
or inclining that way. 

I should have taken notice in the proper place, that when one Bee 
goes home from the Sugar-plate, he returns with a considerable number 
from the Hive. 


COTTON MATHER 


[No Puritan more clearly represents the temper of seventeenth- 
century curiosity in the phenomenal universe than Cotton Mather (see 
p. 162). One encounters his ubiquitous mind at every turn, some- 
times trivial and credulous, often pedantic, but never unresponsive to 
intellectual stimuli. He planned The Christian Philosopher: A Collection 
of the Best Discoveries in Nature, with Religious Improvements (London, 1721) 
to reconcile science and religion. One should not overlook Mather’s 
skill throughout as a literary craftsman. 

The text here reproduced is from the original edition: “‘Of the 
Vegetables,” pp. 122-127, 130, 131, 134-139; “Of Man,” pp. 301, 
303,304. These and further selected essays may be found in Selections 
from Cotton Mather, ed. Murdock (New York, 1926). The notes for this 
text correspond, with some additions and variations, to those in the 
Selections. See especially the introduction to Selections, pp. xlviii-liv.] 


FROM THE CHRISTIAN PHILOSOPHER 


Essay X XVI. OF THE VEGETABLES. 
HE CONTRIVANCE of our most Glorious Creator, in the VEGETABLES 
growing upon this Globe, cannot be wisely observed without 


Admiration and Astonishment. 
We will single out some Remarkables, and glorify our Gop! 


Peis cs ATES... 


= 


Science 751 


First, In what manner is Vegetation performed? And how is the Growth 
of Plants and the Increase of their Parts carried on? The excellent and 
ingenious Dr. John Woodward! has, in the way of nice Experiment, 
brought this thing under a close Examination. It is evident that Water 
is necessary to Vegetation; there is a Water which ascends the Vessels 
of the Plants, much after the way of a Filtration; and the Plants take 
up a larger-or lesser Quantity of this Fluid, according to their Di- 
mensions. The much greater part of that fluid Mass which is conveyed 
to the Plants, does not abide there, but exhale thro them up into the 
Atmosphere. Hence Countries that abound with bigger Plants are ob- 
noxious to greater Damps, and Rains, and inconvenient Humidities. 
But there is also a terrestrial Matter which is mixed with this Water, 
and ascends up into the Plants with the Water: Something of this Matter 
will attend Water in all it motions, and stick by it after all its Percola- 
tions. Indeed the Quantity of this terrestrial Matter, which the Vapours 
carry up into the Atmosphere, is very fine, and not very much, but it is 
the truest and the best prepared vegetable Matter; for which cause it 
is that Rain-Water is of such a singular Fertility. "Tis true there is in 
Water a mineral Matter also, which is usually too scabrous, and pon- 
derous, and inflexible, to enter the Pores of the Roots. Be the Earth 
ever so rich, *tis observed little good will come of it, unless the Parts 
of it be loosened a little, and separated. And this probably is all the 
use of Nitre and other Salts to Plants, to loosen the Earth, and separate 
the Parts of it. It is this terrestrial Matter which fills the Plants; they 
are more or less nourished and augmented in proportion, as their 
Water conveys a greater or lesser quantity of proper terrestrial Matter 
to them. Nevertheless ’tis also probable that in this there is a variety; 
and all Plants are not formed and filled from the same sort of Cor- 
puscles. Every Vegetable seems to require a peculiar and specifick Matter 
for its Formation and Nourishment. If the Soil wherein a Seed is 
planted, have not all or most of the Ingredients necessary for the 
Vegetable to subsist upon, it will suffer accordingly. Thus Wheat sown 
upon a Tract of Land well furnish’d for the Supply of that Grain, 
will succeed very well, perhaps for divers Years, or, as the Husband- 
man expresses it, as long as the Ground is in heart; but anon it will pro- 
duce no more of that Corn; it will of some other, perhaps of Barley: 
and when it will subsist this no more, still Oats will thrive there; and 
perhaps Pease after these. When the Ground has lain fallow some 
time, the Rain will pour down a fresh Stock upon it; and the care 
of the Tiller in manuring of it, lays upon it such things as are most 
impregnated with a Supply for Vegetation. It is observ’d that Spring- 


752 | The Puritans 


water and Rain-water contain pretty near an equal charge of the vege- 
table Matter, but River-water much more than either of them; and 
hence the Inundations of Rivers leave upon their Banks the fairest 
Crops in the World. It is now plain that Water is not the Matter that 
composes Vegetables, but the Agent that conveys that Matter to them, 
and introduces it into the several parts of them. Wherefore the plentiful 
provision of this Fluid supplied to all Parts of the Earth, is by our: 
Woodward justly celebrated with a pious Acknowledgment of that 
natural Providence that superintends over the Globe which we inhabit. | 
The Parts of Water being exactly spherical, and subtile beyond all 
expression, the Surfaces perfectly polite, and the Intervals being there- 
fore the largest, and so the most fitting to receive a foreign Matter into 
them, it is the most proper Instrument imaginable for the Service 
now assign’d to it. And yet Water would not perform this Office and 
Service to the Plants, if it be not assisted with a due quantity of Heat; 
Heat must concur, or Vegetation will not succeed. Hence as the Heat 
of several Seasons affords a different face of things, the same does the 
Heat of several Climates. The hotter Countries usually yield the larger 
Trees, and in a greater variety. And in warmer Countries, if there be 
a remission of the usual Heat, the Production will in proportion be 
diminish’d. 

That I may a little contribute my two Mites to the illustration of 
the way wherein Vegetation is carried on, I will here communicate a 
couple of Experiments lately made in my Neighbourhood. 

My Neighbour planted a Row of Hills in his Field with our Indian 
Corn, but such a Grain as was colour’d red and blue; the rest of the Field 
he planted with Corn of the most usual Colour, which is yellow. To 
the most Windward-side this Row infected four of the next neighbouring 
Rows, and part of the fifth, and some of the sixth, to render them 
colour’d like what grew on itself. But on the Leeward-side no less than 
seven or eight Rows were so colour’d, and some smaller impressions 
were made on those that were yet further distant. 

The same Neighbour having his Garden often robb’d of the Squashes 
growing in it, planted some Gourds among them, which are to ap- 
pearance very like them, and which he distinguish’d by certain ad- 
jacent marks, that he might not be himself imposed upon; by this 
means the Thieves ’tis true found a very bitter Sauce, but then all the 
Squashes were so infected and embitter’d, that he was not himself able 
to eat what the Thieves had left of them. 

That most accurate and experienc’d Botanist Mr. Ray? has given us 
the Plants that are more commonly met withal, with certain charac: 


Science 753 


teristick Notes, wherein he establishes twenty-five Genders of them. These 
Plants are to be rather stiled Herbs. 

But then of the Trees and Shrubs, he distinguishes five Classes that 
have their Flower disjoined and remote from the Fruit, and as many 
that have their Fruit and Flower contiguous. 

How unaccountably is the Figure of Plants preserved? And how un- 
accountably their Growth determined? Our excellent Ray flies to an 
intelligent plastick Nature, which must understand and regulate the 
whole Oeconomy. 

Every particular part of the Plant has its astonishing Uses. The Roots 
give it a Stability, and fetch the Nourishment into it, which lies in 
the Earth ready for it. The Fibres contain and convey the Sap which 
carries up that Nourishment. The Plant has also larger Vessels, which 
entertain the proper and specifick Juice of it; and others to carry 
the Air for its necessary respiration. The outer and inner Bark defend 
it from Annoyances, and contribute to its Augmentation. The Leaves 
embrace and preserve the Flower and Fruit as they come to their ex- 
plication. But the principal use of them, as Malpighi, and Perault, 
and Marvotte,s have observed, is, to concoct and prepare the Sap for 
the Nourishment of the Fruit, and of the whole Plant; not only that 
which ascends from the Root, but also what they take in from with- 
out, from the Dew, and from the Rain. For there is a regress of the Sap 
in Plants from above downwards; and this descendent Juice is that 
which principally nourishes both Fruit and Plant, as has been clearly 
proved by the Experiments of Signior Malpighi and Mr. Brotherton. 

How agreeable the Shade of Plants, let every Man say that sits under 
his own Vine, and under his own Fig-tree! 

How charming the Proportion and Pulchritude of the Leaves, the 
Flowers, the Fruits, he who confesses not, must be, as Dr. More says, 
one sunk into a forlorn pitch of Degeneracy, and stupid as a Beast. 

Our Saviour says of the Lillies (which some, not without reason, 
suppose to be Tulips) that Solomon in all his Glory was not arrayed like 
one of these. And it is observed by Sprgelius, that the Art of the most 
skilful Painter cannot so mingle and temper his Colours, as exactly 
to imitate or counterfeit the native ones of the Flowers or Vegetables. 

Mr. Ray thinks it worthy a very particular Observation, that Wheat, 
which is the best sort of Grain, and affords the wholesomest Bread, 
is in a singular manner patient of both Extremes, both Heat and Cold, 
and will grow to maturity as well in Scotland, and in Denmark, as in 
Egypt, and Guiney, and Madagascar. It scarce refuses any Climate. And 
the exceeding Fertility of it is by a Pagan Pliny acknowledged as an 


754 ~The Puritans 


Instance of the Divine Bounty to Man, Quod eo maxime Hominem alat; + 
one Bushel in a fit Soil, he says, yielding one hundred and fifty. A 
German Divine so far plays the Philosopher on this Occasion, as to 
propose it for a Singularity in Bread, that totum Corpus sustentat, adeo, 
ut in unicd Bucelld, omnium Membrorum totius externt Corporis, nutrimentum 
contineatur, illiusque Vis per totum Corpus sese diffundat.° A Friend of mine 
had thirty-six Ears of Rye growing from one Grain, and on one Stalk. 

But of our Indian Corn, one Grain of Corn will produce above a 
thousand. And of Guiney Corn, one Grain has been known to produce 
ten thousand. 

The Anatomy of Plants, as it has been exhibited by the incomparable 
Curiosity of Dr. Grew, what a vast Field of Wonders does it lead us into! 

The most inimitable Structure of the Parts! 

The particular Canals, and most adapted ones, for the conveyance 
of the lymphatick and essential Juices! 

The Air-Vessels in all their curious Coylings! 

The Coverings which befriend them, a Work unspeakably more cu- 
rious in reality than in appearance! 

The strange Texture of the Leaves, the angular or circular, but al- 
ways most orderly Position of their Fibres; the various Foldings, with 
a Duplicature, a Multiplicature, the Fore-rowl, the Back-rowl, the Tre-rowl; 
the noble Guard of the Films interposed! 

The Flowers, their Gaiety and Fragrancy; the Perianthium or Em- 
palement of them; their curious Foldings in the Calyx before their Ex- 
pansion, with a close Couch or a concave Couch, a single Plait or a double 
Plait, or a Plait and Couch together, or a Rowl, or a Spire, or Plait 
and Spire together; and their luxuriant Colours after their Folzation, 
and the expanding of their Petala! 

The Stamina, with their Apices; and the Stylus (called the Attire by 
Dr. Grew) which is found a sort of Male Sperm, to impregnate and 
fructify the Seed! 

At last the whole Rudiments and Lineaments of the Parent-Vegetable, 
surprizingly lock’d up in the little compass of the Fruzt or Seed/® 

Gentlemen of Leisure, consult my illustrious Doctor, peruse his Anatomy 
of Plants, ponder his numberless Discoveries; but all the while con- 
sider that rare Person as inviting you to join with him in adoring 
the God of his Father, and the God who has done these excellent things, 
which ought to be known in all the Earth... . 

The peculiar Care which the great God of Nature has taken for the 
Safety of the Seed and Fruit, and so for the Conservation of the Plant, is 
by my ingenious Derham considered as a loud Invitation to His Praises. 


Science 755 


They which dare shew their Heads all the Year, how securely is 
their Seed or Fruit lock’d up in the Winter in their Gems,’ and well 
cover’d with neat and close Tunicks there! : 

Such as dare not expose themselves, how are they preserved under 
the Coverture of the Earth, till invited out by the kindly Warmth of 
the Spring! 

When the Vegetable Race comes abroad, what strange Methods of 
Nature are there to guard them from Inconveniences, by making some 
to lie down prostrate, by making others, which were by the Antients 
called 4 schynomene, to close themselves up at the Touch of Animals, 
and by making the most of them to shut up under their guard in 
the cool of the Evening, especially if there be foul Weather approach- 
ing; which is by Gerhard® therefore called, The Countryman’s Weather- 
wiser! 

What various ways has Nature for the scattering and the sowing of 
the Seed! Some are for this end winged with a light sort of a Down, 
to be carried about with the Seed by the Wind. Some are laid in springy 
cases, which when they burst and crack, dart their Seed to a distance, 
performing therein the part of an Husbandman. Others by their good 
Qualities invite themselves to be swallowed by the Birds, and being 
fertiliz’d by passing thro their Bodies, they are by them transferred 
to places where they fructify. Theophrastus affirms this of the Misletoe; 
and Tavernier of the Nutmeg. Others not thus taken care for, do, by 
their Usefulness to us, oblige us to look after them. 

It is a little surprizing, that Seeds found in the Gizzards of Wild-fowl, 
have afterwards sprouted in the Earth; and Seeds left in the Dung of 
the Cattel. The Seeds of Marjoram and Strammonium, carelesly kept, 
have grown after seven Years. 

How nice the provision of Nature for their Support in standing and 
growing, that they may keep their Heads above ground, and administer 
to our Intentions! There are some who stand by their own Strength; 
and the ligneous parts of these, tho’ like our Bones, yet are not, like 
them, inflexible, but of an elastick nature, that they may dodge the 
Violence of the Winds: and their Branches at the top very commo- 
diously have a tendency to an hemispherical Dilatation, but within 
such an Angle as makes an A‘quilibration there. An ingenious Ob- 
server upon this one Circumstance, cannot forbear this just Reflec- 
tion: A visible Argument that the plastick Capacities of Matter are govern’d 
by an all-wise and infinite Agent, the native Strictnesses and Regularities of them 
plainly shewing from whose Hand they come. And then such as are too 
weak to stand of themselves, ’tis wonderful to see how they use the 


756 | The Puritans 


Help of their Neighbours, address them, embrace them, climb up about 
them, some twisting themselves with a strange convolving Faculty, some 
catching hold with Claspers and Tendrels, which are like Hands to them; 
some striking in rooty Feet, and some emitting a natural Glue, by which 
they adhere to their Supporters. 

But, Oh! the glorious Goodness of our Gop in all these things! ... 

The Persuasion which Mankind has imbib’d of Tobacco being good | 
for us, has in a surprizing manner prevail’d! What incredible Millions 
have suck’d in an Opinion, that it is an useful as well as a pleasant thing, 
for them to spend much of their Time in drawing thro a Pipe the 
Smoke of that lighted Weed! It was in the Year 1585, that one Mr. Lane ° 
carried over from Virginia some Tobacco, which was the first that had 
ever been seen in Europe; and within an hundred Years the smoking 
of it grew so much into fashion, that the very Customs of it brought 
four hundred thousand Pounds a Year into the English Treasury. 

It is doubtless a Plant of many Virtues. The Ozntment made of it is 
one of the best in the Dispensatory. The Practice of smoking it, tho 
a great part of them that use it might very truly say, they find neither 
Good nor Hurt by it; yet it may be fear’d it rather does more Hurt than 
Good. 

‘““May God preserve me from the indecent, ignoble, criminal Slavery, 
to the mean Delight of smoking a Weed, which I see so many carried 
away with. And if ever I should smoke it, let me be so wise as to do it, 
not only with Moderation, but also with such Employments of my Mind, 
as I may make that Action afford me a Leisure for!”’ 

Methinks Tobacco is but a poor Nepenthe, tho the Takers thereof take 
it for such an one. It is to be feared the caustick Salt in the Smoke of 
this Plant, convey’d by the Salival Juice into the Blood, and also the 
Vellication }© which the continual use of it in Snuff gives to the Nerves, 
may lay Foundations for Diseases in Millions of unadvised People, 
which may be commonly and erroneously ascribed to some other 
Original... . 

But then we have one /far-fetch’d and dear-bought Plant, on which 
we have so many Volumes written, that they alone almost threaten 
to become a Library. TEA is that charming Plant. Read Pecklinus’s 14 
Book de Potu Thee, and believe the medicinal and balsamick Virtues 
of it; it strengthens the Stomach, it sweetens the Blood, it revives the 
Heart, and it refreshes the Spirits, and is a Remedy against a World 
of Distempers. Then go to Waldschmidt,'2 and you’ll find it also to 
brighten the Intellectuals. When Prose has done its part, our Tate 4 will 
bring in Verse to celebrate the sovereign Virtues of it... . 


Science 57 


Essay XXXII. Or Man 


... Nor may we lay aside a grateful Sense of this, that as the Son 
of God is the Upholder of all Things in all Worlds, thus, that it is owing 
to his potent Intercession that the Szn of Man has made no more havock 
on this our World. This our World has been by the Sin of Man so per- 
verted from the true Ends of it, and rendred full of such loathsome 
and hateful Regions, and such Scelerata Castra,'* that the Revenges 
of God would have long since rendred it as a fiery Oven, if our blessed 
Jesus had not interceded for it: O my Saviour, what would have become 
of me, and of all that comforts me, if thy Interposttion had not preserved us! ... . 

I will finish with a Speculation, which my most valuable Dr. Cheyne 1° 
has a little more largely prosecuted and cultivated. 

All intelligent compound Beings have their whole Entertainment in 
these three Principles, the DrstrE, the Osjectr, and the SENSATION 
arising from the Congruity between them; this Analogy is preserved full 
and clear thro the Spiritual World, yea, and thro the material also; so 
universal and perpetual an Analogy can arise from nothing but its Pattern 
and Archetype in the infinite God or Maker; and could we carry it 
up to the Source of it, we should find the Trinity of Persons in the 
eternal GODHEAD admirably exhibited to us. In the GoDHEAD we may 
first apprehend a Desire, an infinitely active, ardent, powerful Thoughi, 
proposing of Satisfaction; let this represent Gop the FATHER: but it is 
not possible for any Object but God Himself, to satisfy Himself, and fill 
His Desire of Happiness; therefore He Himself reflected in upon Himself 
and contemplating His own infinite Perfections, even the Brightness of 
His Glory, and the express Image of His Person, must answer this glorious 
Intention; and this may represent to us Gop the Son. Upon this Con- 
templation, wherein Gop Himself does behold, and possess, and enjoy 
Himself, there cannot but arise a Love, a Foy, an Acquiescence of God 
Himself within Himself, and worthy of a God; this may shadow out 
to us the third and the last of the Principles in this mysterious Ternary, 
that is to say, the Holy Spririr. Tho these three Relations of the God- 
head in itself, when derived analogically down to Creatures, may ap- 
pear but Modifications of a real Subsistence, yet in the supreme Infinitude 
of the Divine Nature, they must be infinitely real and living Principles. 
Those which are but Relations, when transferred to created Beings, are 
glorious Relatives in the infinite God. And in this View of the Holy 
Trinity, low as it is, it is impossible the Son should be without the 
FATHER, or the FATHER without the Son, or both without the Holy 
SPIRIT; it is impossible the Son should not be necessarily and eternally 


758 | ~The Puritans 


begotten of the FATHER, or that the Holy Spirir should not necessarily 
and eternally proceed both from Him and from the Son. Thus from 
what occurs throughout the whole Creation, Reason forms an imperfect 
Idea of this incomprehensible Mystery. 

But it is time to stop here, and indeed how can we go any further! 


THOMAS BRATTLE, 1658-1713 


[Thomas Brattle of Boston was a scion of the wealthiest family in 

New England. In 1676 he was graduated from Harvard College where 
he had developed a marked skill in mathematical sciences. After travel 
abroad he settled in Boston, and served the College as treasurer for 
twenty years. He never married. In 1698 he was the chief organizer 
of the Brattle Street Church where the liberal principles of its members 
under the Reverend Benjamin Colman brought down the outspoken 
scorn of Increase Mather and his son Cotton. Brattle declined a judge- 
ship in 1712. By will he left his organ—the first in New England—to 
the church he had founded, provided the institution should ‘‘procure 
a Sober person [to] play skilfully thereon with a loud noise’’ (Sibley, 
II, 496). The instrument was declined for reasons of church polity. 
. Brattle wrote out “A Full and Candid Account of the Delusion 
called Witchcraft, which prevailed in New England; and of the Judicial 
Trials and Executions at Salem, in the County of Essex, of that Pre- 
tended Crime, in 1692” in October of the same year. It was circulated 
as a private letter, and remained in manuscript for over a century. 
The criticisms directed against it in recent years blame the author, 
together with such other disapproving leaders as Saltonstall, Willard, 
Bradstreet, and Increase Mather, for not speaking out against the 
judges. But the modern reader must bear in mind that while the rage 
was at its height, any outspoken critic of the court would have been 
answered with an accusation of complicity in the crime. 

See Dictionary of American Biography; and Sibley, Biographical Sketches, 
II, 489-498. For thoughtful discussion of “Dolefull Witchcraft,” see 
Kenneth B. Murdock, Increase Mather, Foremost American Puritan (Cam- 
bridge, 1926), chap. XVII. The text here is from Collections of the 
Massachusetts Historical Society, series 1, V (1798), 61-80, with omissions 
indicated. | 


THE WITCHCRAFT DELUSION 


... This Salem philosophy, some men may call the new philosophy; 
but I think it rather deserves the name of Salem superstition and 


Science 750 


sorcery, and it is not fit to be named in a land of such light as New-Eng- 
land is. I think the matter might be better solved another way; but I 
shall not make any attempt that way, further than to say, that these 
afflicted children, as they are called, do hold correspondence with the 
devil even in the esteem and account of the S[alem] G[entlemen]; for 
when the black man, i.e. say these gentlemen, the devil, does appear to 
them, they ask him many questions, and accordingly give information 
to the inquirer; and if this is not holding correspondence with the devil, 
and something worse, I know not what is. 

But furthermore, I would fain know of these Salem justices what 
need there is of further proof and evidence to convict and condemn 
these apprehended persons, than this look and touch, if so be they 
are so certain that this falling down and arising up, when there is a 
look and a touch, are natural effects of the said look and touch, and 
so a perfect demonsttation and proof of witchcraft in those persons. 
What can the jury or judges desire more, to convict any man of witch- 
craft, than a plain demonstration, that the said man is a witch? Now 
if this look and touch, circumstanced as before, be a plain demonstra- 
tion, as their philosophy teaches, what need they seek for further evi- 
dences, when, after all, it can be but a demonstration? But let this pass 
with the S. G. for never so plain and natural a demonstration; yet cer- 
tain is it, that the reasonable part of the world, when acquainted here- 
with, will laugh at the demonstration, and conclude that the said 
S. G. are actually possessed, at least, with ignorance and folly. 

I most admire that Mr. N[icholas] N[oyes] the Reverend Teacher 
at Salem, who was educated at the school of knowledge, and is certainly 
a learned, a charitable, and a good man, though all the devils in Hell, 
and all the possessed girls in Salem, should say to the contrary; at 
him, I say, I do most admire; that he should cry up the above men- 
tioned philosophy after the manner that he does. I can assure you, 
that I can bring you more than two, or twice two, (very credible per- 
sons), that will affirm, that they have heard him vindicate the above 
mentioned demonstration as very reasonable. 

Secondly, with respect to the confessors, as they are improperly 
called, or such as confess themselves to be witches, (the second thing 
you inquire’ into in your letter), there are now about fifty of them in 
prison; many of which I have again and again seen and heard; and 
I cannot but tell you, that my faith is strong concerning them, that 
they are deluded, imposed upon, and under the influence of some evil 
spirit; and therefore unfit to be evidences either against themselves, 
oriany joneelses2c3:: 


760 The Puritans 


The great cry of many of our neighbours now is, What, will you 
not believe the confessors? Will you not believe men and women who 
confess that they have signed to the devil’s book? that they were 
baptized by the devil; and that they were at the mock-sacrament once 
and again? What! will you not believe that this is witchcraft, and that 
such and such men are witches, although the confessors do own and 
assert it? | 

Thus, I say, many of our good neighbours do argue; but methinks 
they might soon be convinced that there is nothing at all in all these 
their arguings, if they would but duly consider of the premises. . . . 

Now for the proof of the said sorcery and witchcraft, the prisoner 
at the bar pleading not guilty. 

1. The afflicted persons are brought into court; and after much 
patience and pains taken with them, do take their oaths, that the 
prisoner at the bar did afflict them: And here I think it very observable, 
that often, when the afflicted do mean and intend only the appearance 
and shape of such an one, (say G. Proctor), yet they positively swear 
that G. Proctor did afflict them; and they have been allowed so to 
do; as though there was no real difference between G. Proctor and 
the shape of G. Proctor. This, methinks, may readily prove a stumbling 
block to the jury, lead them into a very fundamental error, and oc- 
casion innocent blood, yea the innocentest blood imaginable, to be in 
great danger. Whom it belongs unto, to be eyes unto the blind, and 
to remove such stumbling blocks, I know full well; and yet you, and 
every one else, do know as well as I who do not. 

2. The confessors do declare what they know of the said prisoner; 
and some of the confessors are allowed to give their oaths; a thing 
which I believe was never heard of in this world; that such as confess 
themselves to be witches, to have renounced God and Christ, and 
all that is sacred, should yet be allowed and ordered to swear by the 
name of the great God! This indeed seemeth to me to be a gross 
taking of God’s name in vain. I know the S. G. do say, that there is 
hope that the said confessors have repented: I shall only say, that if 
they have repented, it is well for themselves; but if they have not, it 
is very ill for you know who. But then, 

3. Whoever can be an evidence against the prisoner at the bar is 
ordered to come into court; and here it scarce ever fails but that evi- 
dences, of one nature and another, are brought in, though, I think, 
all of them altogether alien to the matter of indictment; for they none 
of them do respect witchcraft upon the bodies of the afflicted, which 
is the alone matter of charge in the indictment. 


Science 761 


4. They are searched by a jury; and as to some of them, the jury 
brought in, that on such or such a place there was a preternatural 
excrescence. And I wonder what person there is, whether man or 
woman, of whom it cannot be said but that, in some part of their 
body or other, there is a preternatural excrescence. The term is a 
very general and inclusive term. 

Some of the S. G. are very forward to censure and condemn the 
poor prisoner at the bar, because he sheds no tears: but such betray 
great ignorance in the nature of passion, and as great heedlessness as 
to common passages of a man’s life. Some there are who never shed 
tears; others there are that ordinarily shed tears upon light occasions, 
and yet for their lives cannot shed a tear when the deepest sorrow is 
upon their hearts; and who is there that knows not these things? Who 
knows not that an ecstacy of joy will sometimes fetch tears, when as 
the quite contrary passion will shut them close up? Why then should 
any be so silly and foolish as to take an argument from this appearance? 
But this is by the by. In short, the prisoner at the bar is indicted for 
sorcery and witchcraft acted upon the bodies of the afflicted. Now, 
for the proof of this, I reckon that the only pertinent evidences brought 
in are the evidences of the said afflicted. 

... I cannot but admire that the justices, whom I think to be well- 
meaning men, should so far give ear to the devil, as merely upon his 
authority to issue out their warrants, and apprehend people. Liberty 
was evermore accounted the great privilege of an Englishman; but 
certainly, if the devil will be heard against us, and his testimony taken, 
to the seizing and apprehending of us, our liberty vanishes, and we 
are fools if we boast of our liberty. Now, that the justices have thus 
far given ear to the devil, I think may be mathematically demonstrated 
to any man of common sense: And for the demonstration and proof 
hereof, I desire, only, that these two things may be duly considered, viz. 

1. That several persons have been apprehended purely upon the 
complaints of these afflicted, to whom the afflicted were perfect 
strangers, and had not the least knowledge of imaginable, before they 
were apprehended. 

2. That the afflicted do own and assert, and the justices do grant, 
that the devil does inform and tell the afflicted the names of those 
persons that are thus unknown unto them. Now these two things being 
duly considered, I think it will appear evident to any one, that the 
devil’s information is the fundamental testimony that is gone upon 
in the apprehending of the aforesaid people. 

If I believe such or such an assertion as comes immediately from 


762 ~The Puritans 


the minister of God in the pulpit, because it is the word of the ever- 
living God, I build my faith on God’s testimony: and if I practise upon 
it, this my practice is properly built on the word of God: even so in 
the case before us. 

If I believe the afflicted persons as informed by the devil, and act 
thereupon, this my act may properly be said to be grounded upon 
the testimony or information of the devil. And now, if things are thus, 
I think it ought to be for a lamentation to you and me, and all such 
as would be accounted good christians. ... 

What will be the issue of these troubles, God only knows; I am 
afraid that ages will not wear off that reproach and those stains which 
these things will leave behind them upon our land. I pray God pity 
us, humble us, forgive us, and appear mercifully for us in this our 
mount of distress: herewith I conclude, and subscribe myself, 

Reverend sir, your real friend and humble servant, 


iaebs 


[N. B. As there is no superscription on the copy of this letter, it is not known 
to whom it was addressed. | 


ZABDIEL BOYLSTON, 1680-1766 


[Cotton Mather very possibly wrote up the anonymous account 
here presented from information gathered by Boylston. See George L. 
Kittredge, ‘““SSome Lost Works of Cotton Mather,” Proceedings of the Mas- 
sachusetts Historical Society, XLV (1912), 418-479. Zabdiel Boylston, 
great-uncle of President Adams, never procured a medical degree, 
though he enjoyed an enviable reputation as a physician. His work 
during the smallpox epidemic of 1721 was recognized five years 
later by a Fellowship in the Royal Society. See account of him in 
Dictionary of American Biography; see also Reginald H. Fitz, “Zabdiel 
Boylston, Inoculator, and the Epidemic of Smallpox in Boston in 1721,” 
Johns Hopkins Hospital Bulletin, XXII (1911), 315-327. 

Henry Newman (1670-ca. 1750) of Rehoboth, Massachusetts, was 
graduated from Harvard in 1687. He published the Cambridge al- 
manac for 1691 and served as college librarian from 1690 to 1693. 
Before 1700 he went to England, where he resided till his death. 
Though he conformed to the Established Church, he remained on in- 
timate terms with several New Englanders, acting as agent in England 
for the Corporation of Harvard College, agent for New Hampshire, 
and secretary for the Society for Promotion of Christian Knowl- 
edge. See Sibley, Biographical Sketches, 111, 389-394; see also George L. 


Science 763 


Kittredge, introduction to the Cleveland 1921 reprint of Increase 
Mather, Severall Reasons Proving that Inoculation ...is a Lawful Practice 
(Boston, 1721). The text is from the Philosophical Transactions of the 
Royal Society of London, XXXII (1721), 33-35. ] 


THE WAY OF PROCEEDING IN THE SMALL POX 
INOCULATED IN NEW ENGLAND. 


COMMUNICATED BY HENRY NEWMAN, EsQ; OF THE MIDDLE 
‘TEMPLE. 


1. We make usually a Couple of Jncisions in the Arms where we make 
our Issues, but somewhat larger than for them, some times in one 
Arm, and one Leg. 

2. Into these we put bits of Lint, (the patient at the same time 
turning his Face another way, and guarding his Nostrils) which have 
been dipt in some of the Variolus Matter! taken in a Vial, from the 
Pustules of one that has the Small Pox of the more laudable Sort, 
now turning upon him, and so we cover them with a Plaister of 
Diachylon.” 

3. Yet we find the Variolous Matter fetched from those, that have 
the inoculated Small Pox, altogether as agreeable and effectual as any 
other. And so we do what is taken from them that have the Confluent 
Sort. 

4. Within Four and Twenty Hours, we throw away the Lint, and 
the Sores are dressed once or twice every Four and Twenty Hours, 
with warmed Cabbage Leaves. 

5. The Patient continues to do all Things, as at other times, only 
he exposes not himself unto the Injuries of the Weather, if that be at 
all ‘Tempestuous. 

6. About the Seventh Day the Patient feels the usual Symptoms 
of the Small Pox coming upon him; and he is now managed as in an 
ordinary Putrid Fever. If he cannot hold up, he goes to Bed; If his 
Head ach too much, we put the common Poultice to his Feet, if he be 
very Sick at the Stomach, we give him a gentle Vomit, yea, we commonly 
do these Things almost of Course, whether we find the Patient want 
them or no. And we reckon the sooner we do these Things, the better. 
If the Fever be too high, in some Constitutions, we Bleed a little: And 
finally, to hasten the Eruption, we put on a Couple of Blisters. 

7. On or about the Third Day from the Decumbiture the Eruption 
begins. The Number of the Pustules is not alike in all, in some they 
are a very few, in others they amount to an Hundred yea, in many they 


764 ~The Puritans 


amount unto several Hundreds; frequently unto more than what the 
Accounts from the Levant say is usual there. 

8. The \Eruption being made, all Illness vanishes; except perhaps a 
little of the Vapours in those that are troubled with them; there is 
nothing more to do, but to keep Warm, drink proper Teas, eat Gruel, 
Milk Pottage, Panada, Bread, Butter, and almost any thing equally 
Simple and Innocent. 

g. Ordinarily the Patient sits up every Day, and entertains his 
Friends yea, ventures upon a Glass of Wine with them. If he be too 
Intent upon hard Reading and Study we take him off. 

10. Sometimes, tho’ the Patient be on other Accounts easy enough, 
yet he can’t Sleep for divers Nights together. In this Case we do not 
give him Anodynes or Opiates, because we find, That they who have 
taken these Things in the Small Pox are generally pestered with miser- 
able Biles after their being recovered. So we let them alone; their Sleep 
will come of it self, as their Strength is coming on. 

11. On the Seventh Day the Pustules usually come to their Maturity; 
and soon after this they go away, as those of the Small Pox in the Distinct 
Sort use todo. _ . 

12. The Patient gets abroad quickly, and is most sensibly Stronger, 
and in better Health than he was before. The Transplantation has 
been given to Women in Child-bed, Eight or Nine Days after their De- 
livery; and they have got earlier out of their Child-bed, and in better 
Circumstances, than ever in their Lives. Those that have had ugly 
Ulcers long running upon them, have had them healed on, and by 
this Transplantation. Some very feeble, crazy, Consumptive People, have 
upon this Transplantation, grown hearty and got rid of their former 
Maladies. 

13. The Sores of the Incision do seem to dry a little in Three or Four 
Days of the Feverish Preparation for Eruption. After this there is a 
plentiful Discharge at them. The discharge may continue a little while 
after the Patient is quite well on other Accounts; But the Sores will 
soon enough dry up of themselves; but the later, the better, as we think. 
If they happen to be inflamed, or otherwise Troublesome, we presently 
help them in the ways we do any Ordinary Sores. | 


25 NOTES 


Chapter I—History 
THOMAS SHEPARD 


1. Shepard is referring to the years 
1629 and 1630, when Parliament had 
been dissolved, the Laudians securely 
entrenched in power, and the outlook 
for Puritans apparently become hopeless; 
during these years “‘this great enterprise,” 
the Massachusetts Bay Company, was 
formed and the migration undertaken. 
Shepard is writing eighteen years later 
when the Puritan and parliamentary 
cause seems to have triumphed, and he 
must remind his English critics how des- 
perate the situation seemed in 1630. 

2. These sentences summarize the in- 
tolerable dilemma which the Puritans 
confronted in 1630, when they were 
striving to reform the Church of Eng- 
land and yet at the same time not to 
separate from it or to allow themselves 
to be forced into the position of ‘‘schis- 
matics.”” The “distinctions” by which 
Puritans strove to “salve” their con- 
sciences were those between the sub- 
stance and accidents of a true church; 
they insisted that the Church of Eng- 
land was “‘true”’ in substantials, but cor- 
rupt in accidentals, such as the episcopal 
hierarchy. Since the authorities more and 
more insisted that the bishops and the 
rituals were essential to the Church of 
England, it became increasingly difficult 


for the Puritans to maintain their fine . 


distinctions. The migration to Massachu- 
setts was the only solution for this prob- 
lem except open revolution. 


JOHN WINTHROP 


1. Isaac Allerton (1586-1659), an orig- 
inal member of the Plymouth group, the 
business man and financier of the colony; 
he later became engaged in somewhat 
shady trading deals and withdrew from 
Plymouth to New Haven. 

2. John Endecott (1589-1665), gover- 
nor of the outpost at Salem, continued 
to be one of the magistrates after Win- 


throp’s arrival, and after Winthrop’s 
death was several times governor; a stern 
Puritan of the most uncompromising va- 
riety, he cut down the Maypole at Merry 
Mount, caused Winthrop and the govern- 
ment considerable embarrassment when 
he cut the red cross out of the English 
flag because it was a Popish emblem, and 
as governor wrote his name in blood by 
his persecution of the Quakers. 

3. Samuel Skelton (1584-1634), the 
colleague of Francis Higginson in the 
ministry of the church at Salem. 

4. Nahumkeck was the Indian name 
for Salem. 

5. Winthrop always speaks of himself 
in the third person. 

6. Sir Henry Vane (1613-1662), son 
of a member of the Privy Council, came 
to Boston in 1635, and was elected gover- 
nor in 1636 as a tribute rather to his 
high social station and influential connec- 
tions than to his wisdom or experience. 
His conduct in New England exhibits the 
worst side of his erratic character; in his 
subsequent career he was to reveal more 
lofty and more courageous qualities, 
though he always was an _ incurable 
idealist and visionary, winning the ad- 
miration of John Milton and the scorn 
of Oliver Cromwell. Though not a Regi- 
cide, he was leader of the most radical 
republican sentiment among the Puri- 
tans, opposed the Restoration, and was 
executed on Tower Hill in 1662. 

7. Hugh Peter (1598-1660), a vig- 
orous and pugnacious Puritan, one of 
the first investors in the Massachusetts 
Bay Company, came to New England 
in 1635 and was established as minister 
at Salem, where he reorganized the 
church shattered by Roger Williams’s 
heresies. He returned to England in 1641 
and had a spectacular career as an In- 
dependent minister, army chaplain, and 
rabble-rouser; so conspicuous did he be- 
come that upon the Restoration he was 
executed, though he, like Vane, had not 
been an actual Regicide. 

8. Thomas Dudley (1576-1653), sec- 


765 


766 


ond in command to Winthrop, a former 
soldier and steward to the earl of Lin- 
coln; he was governor in 1634, 1640, 
1645, and 1650. A hard, single-minded 
man, he represents, as against Winthrop, 
the narrower and harsher features of early 
Puritanism. 

g. See account of John Wilson (1588- 
1667), p. 552. 

10. John Haynes (1594-1654), a man 
of substance from Essex, came to New 
England in the same ship with Hooker 
and Cotton; governor of Massachusetts 
in 1635, he was a follower of Hooker, 
moved to Connecticut in 1637, was 
_chosen first governor of Connecticut and 
served in that office every alternate year 
until his death. 

11. Though perhaps disguised to mod- 

' ern ears by the technical theological 
jargon, the purport of these opinions is 
fairly clear. ‘The standard Protestant doc- 
trine was that men were saved by their 
faith in Christ, not by their works, that 
Christ had fulfilled the law, satisfied the 
vengeance of God, and that His right- 
eousness was “imputed” to the saints for 
their salvation. The legal imputation of 
Christ’s virtue to the credit of man was 
called ‘“‘justification”; that is, a man was 
justified before the tribunal of God be- 
cause Christ had satisfied God’s indict- 
ment against him. A justified man was 
expected thereafter to conduct himself in 
a Christian manner, or at least to strive 
to do so; his conduct, after his justifica- 
tion, was called his “‘sanctification.’’ Ac- 
cording to the orthodox view, in the 
moment of justification the regenerate 
_man received an ability to pursue more 
“lor less perfectly a sanctified course of 
life. The evocation of such an ability 
was understood to be a work of the Holy 
Ghost. At the same time, though the 
impetus might come from the Divine 
Spirit, though a spiritual power might 
be thus conveyed into the soul, the in- 
dividuality of the saint was deemed invio- 
late, and his effort toward sanctification 
was to proceed from his own exertions. 
Regeneration, so to speak, took off the 
chains that bound a man in sin; there- 
after he was to labor as an individual, 
under the guidance of his own intelli- 
gence, to fulfill the law of God. 


The Punear 


The theory of Mrs. Hutchinson, though 
seeming close to the orthodox version, 
was of a vitalistic, mystical character; 
by maintaining that “the Holy Ghost 
dwells in a justified person” she con- 
cluded that the saint in the moment of 
justification received an influx of energy 
which overwhelmed and obliterated his 
individuality, carrying him along on a 
wave of ecstasy; consequently she argued 
that it made no difference whether he 
achieved any sanctification whatsoever, 
that his good or bad conduct cast no 
light on his salvation, which was a matter 
entirely of inward spiritual ravishment. 
Whatever virtues he achieved in his life 
were not wrought by his own volition, 
but by the power of the divine spirit 
working in him. He was merely to sur- 
render his will to the promptings and pro- 
pulsions from within. In Winthrop’s eyes, 
these doctrines led to the abandonment 
of all individual moral responsibility, to 
an ethical anarchy and an uncontrol- 
lable self-righteousness which might have 
very dangerous social consequences. 

12. John Wheelwright (1592-1679), 
B.A., Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge, 
1615; M.A., 1618. A brother-in-law of 
Anne Hutchinson, he emigrated to New 
England in 1636. After his banishment 
in 1637 he founded Exeter, New Hamp- 
shire; returned to England, 1656-1662; 
his sentence revoked by the Massachu- 
setts government, he came back to New 
England and served as minister at Salis- 
bury, 1662-1679. 

13. I.e., Winthrop, in this year serving 
as deputy-governor. 

14. L.e., John Wilson. For the distinc- 
tion between “‘pastor” and ‘‘teacher,”’ see 
p: 386. 

15. Newtown was the original name 
for Cambridge. 

16. According to the Congregational 
theory of church polity, a synod was not 
a legislative body, but merely a gathering 
of learned men for the purposes of dis- 
cussion and clarification; their decisions 
were theoretically not binding upon 
any particular congregation unless the 
congregation chose to endorse them. Pres- 
byterian Puritans, who upheld the com- 
pulsory power of synods (hence Milton’s 


line, “New Presbyter is but Old Priest 


Notes 


writ large”), had criticized the Congre- 
gational polity for its lack of a central 
controlling power, and had predicted 
that in a crisis the Congregational 
churches would fall apart. In such works 
as Shepard and Allin’s Defence of the 
Answer, the Congregationalists insisted 
that the Word of God was so clear that 
when the ministers would gather to for- 
mulate its teachings the results of their 
deliberations would win instant consent 
from all right-minded men. In 1637 the 
majority of the church of Boston were 
devoted to Mrs. Hutchinson, and upon 
the success or failure of the synod in 
bringing that church to the true doctrine 
depended the success or failure of the 
whole Bible Commonwealth. When the 
Antinomians refused to accept the con- 
clusions of the synod the government was 
compelled to step in and proceed against 
them as persons opposing the obvious and 
explicit principles of the true religion. 
As long as the “‘advisory”’ synods of New 
England were thus backed by the force 
of the civil authority, they were able to 
keep the churches in line; after the 
_ charter was repealed and the govern- 
ment was no longer willing to enforce 
Congregational uniformity, the churches 
were left to their own devices. 

17. John Davenport (1597-1670), 
along with Cotton and Hooker one of 
the most powerful of New England min- 
isters, came to Boston in 1635, led his 
followers to New Haven, which colony 
he dominated until its unification with 
Connecticut; he then accepted a call 
from the First Church of Boston, 1668, 
where his coming precipitated a quarrel 
that split the church. 

18. The formidable list of these errors 
is in Charles Francis Adams, Antinomian- 
ism in the Colony of Massachusetts Bay 
(Boston, 1894), pp. 95-124. 

19. The contention that the charter 
of the Massachusetts Bay Company gave 
the government power to settle all cases 
without the possibility of an appeal to 
the King’s courts was certainly unjusti- 
fied; yet it was doggedly maintained and 
was the principal reason for the virtual 
independence enjoyed by the colony of 
Massachusetts Bay until the charter was 
revoked in 1684. 


767 


20. From the orthodox point of view, 
Mrs. Hutchinson’s admission that she 
believed she had received special reve- 
lations direct from God was proof posi- 
tive that she had been inspired by evil 
powers; the canon of revelation was be- 
lieved closed with the book of Revela- 
tion, and though God might continue to 
betray his wishes and commands in the 
government of the world and the dis- 
position of particular events, no mortal 
was any longer to receive commands 
from Him in so many words. If the pos- 
sibility of continued revelation from God 
direct to individuals had been admitted, 
any man or woman might have claimed 
divine sanction for any conceivable no- 
tion. 

21. The scene here described must 
have been the most dramatic and tragic 
in the history of New England: Mrs. 
Hutchinson, arraigned before the church, 
most of the congregation having been 
her followers in the beginning of the 
struggle but now turned against, her 
through the masterful strategy of John 
Winthrop and the pressure of outside 
opinion, hearing the sentence pronounced 
against her by her beloved minister, John 
Cotton, upon whose words she had hung 
in England, whom she had followed to 
New England, and from whom she be- 
lieved she had derived her teachings. 
John Cotton’s role in the drama leaves 
much to be explained. If he did not 
actually proclaim what Mrs. Hutchinson 
thought he did, he must have used many 
incautious phrases, and when the storm 
had gathered he abandoned her entirely. 
His condemning her before the whole 
congregation must have been for her like 
turning the knife in a wound. His posi- 
tion at the moment was extremely pre- 
carious, and it was only by his opportune 
bending to the victorious party and his 
carrying out their sentence against Anne 
Hutchinson that he retained his influence 
in the community. For a moment during 
the crisis he meditated moving to New 
Haven; Roger Williams later accused him 
of contemplating a “‘separation”’ from the 
churches of Massachusetts, and Cotton 
endeavored to defend himself in what is 
one of the lamest apologies ever penned 
by a righteous man (Master Fohn Cotton’s 


768 


Answer to Master Roger Williams, ed. 
J. Lewis Diman, Publications of the Nar- 
ragansett Club, II, 79-85). 

22. The moderation of the militia on 
this occasion is a tribute to the moral 
power of religion among the rank and 
file of the first generation; it was almost 
unprecedented in the days of ‘Merrie 
England” for a thousand Englishmen to 
gather in one place without drunkenness 
or quarrelling. By the end of the century 
the ministers were unanimously com- 
plaining that training days were anything 
but occasions for sober drill. 

23. The servant’s reply is the closest 
approach to the humorous in the Journal, 
but to the aristocratic Winthrop the re- 
mark did not appear funny, for he wrote 
in the margin of his manuscript, “‘inso- 
lent.” 

24. The synod of 1648 drew up the 
final codification of the New England 
church polity in The Cambridge Platform. 


EDWARD JOHNSON 


1. Reference to manner in which it 
was required by law in England that 
Sunday should be celebrated; in 1618 
James I published a declaration per- 
mitting dancing, archery, May games, 
and other sports on Sundays; Charles I 
endeavored to force the clergy to read 
this ““Booke of Sports” from their pul- 
pits. Many Puritan clergymen were sus- 
pended for refusing. 

2. The fleeing ministers were disguised 
as seamen in order to escape from the 
Court of High Commission, before which 
many of them were indicted for non- 
conformity. 

g. The ‘‘Lady Arrabella,” Arbella 
Johnson, daughter of the earl of Lincoln; 
she and her husband, Isaac Johnson, 
sailed with the fleet in 1630, the flagship 
being named in her honor. They were 
the wealthiest of the emigrants; both died 
within a few months of the landing. 

4. John Norton (1606-1663), B.A., 
Peterhouse, Cambridge, 1624; M.A., 
1627; came to New England with Shep- 
ard in 1635; was ordained teacher at Ips- 
wich; called to the First Church of Boston 
to succeed Cotton, 1652; along with 
Governor Endecott he was the leader of 


The Puritans 


the persecution of the Quakers; in 1662 
he went as agent for the colony to Eng- 
land, failed to get the expected results, 
and died an unpopular man. 

5. Minster, a town in Germany in 
which there was a famous outbreak of 
Anabaptists in 1534; these Anabaptists, 
convinced that they were God’s chosen 
people, attempted to set up a reign of the 
saints by putting all the unregenerate to’ 
the sword. Miinster was a byword for 
the horrors of direct inspiration, and the 
possibility that Anne Hutchinson’s fol- 
lowers might resort to the Anabaptists’ 
tactics was always present in the minds 
of the Massachusetts authorities. 

6. Cambridge. 

7. Aslur upon the English army under 
Cromwell, which, being recruited from 
many sects, was enforcing a policy of 
toleration in England at the time John- 
son was writing. 


COTTON MATHER 


1. Persons born in America of Euro- 
pean race; a word used at this time most 
frequently in the West Indies, so that 
Mather means in particular students 
coming to Harvard from the West Indies. 

2. “Drove forth the eminent pious 
heroes to withstand so many misfortunes, 
to undertake so many labors,” Vergil, 
Aeneid, I, 9, slightly altered. 

3. John Foxe (1516-1587), English 
Protestant, author of Acts and Monuments 
of these latter and perillous Dayes, in Latin, 
1559; in English, 1563; written in exile 
at Strasbourg during the reign of Queen 
Mary, the book is a chronicle of the 
sufferings and martyrdoms of English 
Protestants. It was read thoroughly by 
all Puritans of the seventeenth century. 

4. John Wyckliffe (c. 1320-1384), me- 
dieval reformer, who attacked the cor- 
ruption of the medieval clergy, the 
supremacy of the Pope, asserted the su- 
premacy of the scriptures as a rule of 
faith, attacked the theory of transubstan- 
tiation; he was regarded by Protestants 
as a forerunner of the Reformation. 

5. Peter Heylin (1600-1662), Angli- 
can clergyman, chaplain to Charles I, 
violent partisan of Laud, and embittered 
foe of Puritanism, 


Notes 


6. John Owen (1616-1683), leading 
Independent minister, chaplain to Crom- 
well, Vice-Chancellor of Oxford, 1651- 
1659, minister of a non-conformist church 
in London after the Restoration. He was 
invited to come to New England, was 
a friend and correspondent of many of 
the New England divines, though in 1669 
he wrote to New England reproving the 
churches for their persecution of Quakers. 
Reference to Inquiry concerning Evangelical 
Churches, Works, ed. Gold, XV, 209. 

7. ““That they acknowledge themselves 
never to be perfect.” 

8. ‘He calls her fair, not absolutely, 
but fair among women, that is to say 
with a distinction, so that she may thereby 


be more restrained, and may know her 


deficiencies.” 

g. For Ramus and his influence in 
New England see Introduction, pp. 28— 
39- 
10. “Among the many favours with 
which you have enriched me, this I shall 
keep in remembrance, which thanks to 
you I learned through your reply at 
Poissey, that of the fifteen centuries since 
Christ, the first is truly golden and that 
the rest, the further they are removed 
the more they are wretched and degener- 
ate; therefore when I had free choice, I 
preferred the golden age.” This was the 
famous statement by which Ramus pub- 
licly announced his conversion to Protes- 
tantism, 1561. 

11. ‘‘Remote regions.” 

12. “Outer darkness.” 

13. James Howell (c. 1594-1666), 
author of Epistolae Ho-Elianae.. 

14. “An anthology.” 

15. “History is the witness of time, 
the messenger of antiquity, ‘the light of 
truth, the life of memory, the magistrate 
of life’’ (Cicero, De Oratore, II, 9.) 

16. “Rather to be admired than imi- 
tated.” 

17. ‘‘A pleasant, faithful and accurate 
writer.” Justus Lipsius (1547-1606), a 
humanist, scholar, and editor, who chiefly 
devoted himself to making available the 
teachings of classical Stoicism. 

18. ‘Sweeter than honey.” Photius was 
patriarch of Constantinople, ninth cen- 
tury; Colerus is Johann Coler, German 
theologian of the sixteenth century. 


-our 


769 


19. “A prudent writer, if ever there 
was one.” 

20. “Seems to have surpassed all 
Greek and Latin authors.” 

21. “In him alone (to speak of his- 
torians) the Roman people had a genius 
worthy of their empire.” 

22. ‘‘Great wars, the storming of cities, 
kings. put to flight and captured.” 

23. Probably a grammarian of Alex- 
andria at the end of the first century. 

24. “‘Historians are to be read with 
moderation and kindness, and it is to be 
remembered that they can not be in all 
circumstances like Lynceus.” 

25. Louis Aubery, Seigneur du Maury, 
d. 1687. 

26. “History is the narrative of great 
actions with praise or blame.” 

27. “I believe it is the principal func- 
tion of history not to be silent respecting 
virtues, and to hold up before depravity, 
both in word and deed, the dread of in- 
famy with posterity.” 

28. The name sometimes applied to 
himself by Claude Saumaise, or Sal- 
masius (1588-1653), the learned scholar 
with whom Milton disputed. 

29. Virgilius of Salzburg was con- 
demned by Pope Zachary, 745, for a 
treatise on the Antipodes contending that 
there is another world underneath the 
earth. 

30. Konrad  Schliisselberg 
1619), Lutheran theologian. 

31. ““It is most proper to History, to 
praise eminent deeds.” 

32. Professor Murdock interprets this 
obscure phrase as the equivalent of 
“fail to see the woods for the 
trees.” 

33. Daniel Chaumier (c. 1570-1621), 
André Rivet (1573-1651), French Cal- 
vinist writers. 

34. Howell, Epistolae, Bk. 1, Sect. 4, 
Letter xxi. 

35. “‘It is offensive to God when any- 
one who is like him, excelling in virtue, 
is dishonoured, or praise given to the 
contrary.” 

36. Jacques Auguste de Thou (1553- 
1617), French historian. 

37. ““Much that is most false and un- 
worthy.” 

38. ““The simplest style of writing.” 


(1543- 


pi? 


39. “‘Memoirs of ecclesiastical trans- 
actions.” 

40. “Just as salt discreetly sprinkled 
on food flavors it, and adds to the pleasure 
of the relish, so if you mingle a little of 
antiquity, the oration is made more 
lovely.” 

41. “I beg pardon for this self-praise.”’ 

42. “Every writer is in error about 
his own writings.” 

43. Professor Murdock indicates the 
explanation for this sentence in a passage 
from William Lambarde, Perambulation of 
Kent (1570), ed. 1826, p. 233: “Our 
speech at this day (for the most part) 
consisteth of words of one sillable. Which 
thing Eramus observing, merily in his 
Ecclesiast, compareth the English toong 
to a Dogs barking, that soundeth nothing 
els, but Baw, waw, waw, in Monosil- 
lable.” 

44. “In a long work.” 

45. “Before speaking of the thing, a 
little about myself.” 

46. “‘Deliver me from a man of one 
occupation.” 

47. “Mistakes.” 

48. ‘‘Egostistical discourse.” 

49. “‘He was so incapable of envy 
that if he came upon any elegant ex- 
pression of another’s it pleased him not 
less than if it had been his own.” 

50. I.e., members of the High-Church 
party in the Church of England. 

51. Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa (1487- 
1535), attacked by the Inquisition for his 
De Vanitate et Incertitude Scientiorum, 1531. 

52. “Happy he whom the Lord sig- 
nalized with this honor, that he may have 
the most evil men for his enemies.” 

53. ‘“This I wish, now my verse pleases 
me” (Martial, Epig. VI, 61. 4). 

54. A play on words, roughly thus: 
‘He received the stones, to whom Christ 
was a rock.” An example of the bad 
taste of which Cotton Mather was too 
capable. 

55. Wyckliffe’s epitaph, Speed, His- 
tory, ed. 1614, p. 610, or Fuller, Church 
History, ed. 1837, I, 494: ““The Devells 
Instrument, Churches Enemy, Peoples 
Confusion, Hereticks Idoll, Hypocrites 
Mirrour, Schismes Broacher, Hatreds 
Sower, Lyes Forger, Flatteries Sinke: 
who at his death despaired like Cain, 


The Puritans 


and stricken by the horrible judgment 
of God, breathed forth his wicked soule 
to the dark mansion of the black devell.” 

56. Reference to Solomon Stoddard 
and the ministers of the Connecticut 
valley under his leadership, who at the 
time Mather wrote were inaugurating a 
change in the church polity whereby all 
persons in a town not openly scandalous 
should not only be admitted to the church. 
but also brought to both sacraments. In 
the next decade Stoddard and the Mathers 
carried on an acrimonious pamphlet con- 


_ troversy about this question. 


57. James Ussher (1581-1656), An- 
glican clergyman of Calvinistic tenets, 
Archbishop of Armaugh, a leading mod- 
erate who strove to reconcile Anglicans 
and Puritans and was thoroughly re- 
spected by his Puritan opponents. 

58. Stephen Marshall (1594-1655), 
English Puritan, advocate of the Pres- 
byterian polity, but of a more moderate 
sort than the Scotch variety. 

59. Jeremiah Burroughs (1594-1655), 
Independent divine, a spokesman along 
with John Owen for Cromwell’s policy 
of toleration. 

60. “‘No one is more oppressive than 
the ignorant man, because he thinks 
nothing done correctly unless he does it 
himself,” Terence, Adelphi, ll. 98-99. 

61. “What am I? Nothing. Who am 
I? No one. But the Grace of Christ makes 
what I am, what I live, what I do.” 


Chapter II—The State and Society 
JOHN WINTHROP 


1. Reference to the followers of Peter 
Waldo (fl. 1170) in the Piedmont, a me- 
dieval sect that resisted the authority of 
Rome in the thirteenth and fourteenth 
centuries and ultimately became merged 
with the Protestants; they were of great 
value in Protestant polemic because they 
could always be cited as an example of 
a pure and true church existing before 
Luther and supplying a long tradition 
for Protestantism. 

2. Winthrop is here using one of the 
favorite arguments of the non-separating 
Congregational theorists, the contention 
that the Reformed Churches of the Con- 


Notes 


tinent and the Church of England were 
‘true’? churches, even though they main- 
tained a Presbyterian or Episcopalian 
form of government; the imperfections 
of their government were to be regarded 
as unfortunate handicaps which even- 
tually they were certain to overcome, be- 
cause if they really lived up to their 
profession of basing their religion upon 
the Bible they would inevitably reorgan- 
ize their churches according to the Con- 
gregational plan. Therefore, Winthrop is 
arguing, the settlers of New England, 
still members of the Church of England 
and maintaining fellowship with the Prot- 
estant Churches of Europe, will realize 
in America what the others profess but 
do not yet practice. 

3. Note the extension of the doctrine 
of the covenant between God and the 
individual saint to include also a theo- 
retical covenant between God and the 
people as a whole. The doctrine was the 
foundation for the Puritan theory of social 
cohesion, of the unified society bound to- 
gether as one man by an irrevocable 
covenant with God Himself. 

4. In the Congregational polity only 
those were admitted who could give evi- 
dence before the congregation that they 
bore the visible marks of regeneration 
upon them. 

5. A reference to the heresy broached 
by Roger Williams two years before. 
With characteristic generosity, Winthrop 
is insinuating that in spite of his errors 
Williams might still be a genuine Chris- 
tian (cf. Bradford’s similar judgment, 
p. 111), though Winthrop is.clear that 
Williams’s errors merited banishment, 
however holy Williams himself might 
be. 

6. Winthrop here witnesses the first 
stirrings of libertarian sentiments among 
the people and the emergence of the 
purely political attitude toward funda- 
mental law that was ultimately to re- 
place the more complex religious theory 
of the dual origin of government in the 
social compact and in the divine cove- 
nant. 

7. The result of this action was the 
‘Body of Liberties,’ drawn up by Na- 
thaniel Ward and adopted by the General 
Court in 1641. 


it 


JOHN COTTON 


1. William Perkins (1558-1602), one 
of the greatest of English Calvinists, fel- 
low of Christ’s College, Cambridge, in- 
fluential preacher and pamphleteer; his 
works were read throughout Protestant 
countries and in New England. 

2. “In order towards things spiritual.” 

3. “I speak of the plenitude of scrip- 
ture.” 

4. “Vigour.” 

5. “More unseemly to be ejected than 
not to be admitted.” 

6. Jean Bodin (1530-1596), French 
political philosopher. 

7. John Robinson, pastor of the 
Scrooby congregation; being a Separatist 
and a leader of the most extreme Con- 
gregationalists, Robinson might be ex- 
pected to stress the more democratic 
features of the polity; hence the effective- 
ness of Cotton’s insisting, first, that by 
the principles of a purely secular theorist, 
Bodin, Congregational theory is not dem- 
ocratic, and second, that even by its most 
radical exponent it is not made into a 
popular government. 


ROGER WILLIAMS 


1. “TI have liberated my soul.” 

2. Cotton wrote this statement of the 
orthodox position in answer to questions 
addressed to him by a Baptist; the paper 
fell into Williams’s hands and he used it 
as the text to be refuted in The Bloudy 
Tenent, by means of a dialogue between 
“Truth” and “Peace.” 


NATHANIEL WARD 


1. “Labour with straddlings.” 

2. Paracelsus (1490-1541), the fa- 
mous German physician, had the repu- 
tation for being an honest and good but 
misguided man; he was frequently cited 
in religious controversy as the supreme 
example of a well-meaning but dangerous 
person. 

3. True religion is “the fire of proof” 
which doth “unite the homogeneous and 


_ separate the heterogeneous.” 


4. “The most generic genus.” 
5. “No evil is worse than liberty for 
the erring.” 


Var 


6. “Without violation of the state.” 

7. A “low country,” i.e. Holland, 
where a certain toleration of various 
Protestant sects was permitted; Holland 
was a commercial rival of England at 
the time Ward was writing, and his 
scornful reference was an appeal to Eng- 
lish prejudices. 

8. I.e., nothing in the world exists 
any further than Truth gives it its exist- 
ence; Truth itself is better than any entity 
or any good thing, because any created 
thing derives its being from Truth, and 
is therefore Truth’s “twin.” 

g. A small javelin. 

10. ‘‘Mode of speaking.” 

11. ‘In what gender.” 

12. ““To speak truth laughing, what 
hinders?” 

13. Traditional formulas for the as- 
sents of the King and of the House of 
Lords to an act of Parliament. 

14. Catholic theologians. 

15. ‘No occasion opposes the King.” 

16. ‘‘No occasion assists the King.” 

17. “In the forum of right reason’’; 
i.e., the prerogatives of the King and 
the liberties of the subject are so old that 
they were originally formulated in the 
Norman or ancient British language, but 
their validity rests not upon even the 
most ancient tradition, but upon the 
dictates of right reason, for time, from 
the point of view of eternal truth, is 
a conception as empty of significance 
as a New England purse is empty of 
money. 


JONATHAN MITCHELL 


1. Mitchell’s long analysis of the plight 
of Israel in the days of Nehemiah is 
clearly a discussion of the condition of 
New England in 1667; this sermon illus- 
trates the fashion in which New England 
theorists maintained the exact analogy 
of the Lord’s people in New England 
with the chosen people of the Old Testa- 
ment, and therefore endeavored to apply 
the social and political precedents of Pal- 
estine to America. 

2. A reference to the charges being 
levied against Puritan New England by 
Anglicans and Royalists after the Res- 
toration. 


- 


The Puritans 


JOHN WISE 


1. Reference to the platform for the 
attempted unification of the Independent 
and Presbyterian churches drawn up in 
London, 1690. Increase Mather, then in 
England: negotiating for the charter, had 
assisted in the preparation of this decla- 
ration, and he and Cotton were con- 
stantly citing it in an effort to prove to'' 
English and. European Protestants that 
the New England way was not a peculiar 
or provincial system. Consequently ene- 
mies of the Mathers found it strategic to 
quote to the London ministers against 
the Mathers whenever possible; the 
founders of the Brattle Street Church 
and Solomon Stoddard had already 
shown Wise the advantage of this 
maneuver. 

2. Samuel Pufendorf, 1632-1694, Ger- 
man theologian and philosopher, author 
of De Jure Nature et Gentium, one of the 
chief sources for eighteenth-century con- 
ceptions of natural law; it was translated 
into English by Basil Kennett, 1703. 
Wise leans heavily upon it throughout 
his argument. 

3. Probably Archibald Johnston, Lord 
Warrington, Scottish judge and states- 
man. 

4. Note that at this point Wise is 
simply setting aside all consideration of 
man as basically corrupted and inher- 
ently depraved, thus marking his depar- 
ture from traditional Puritan theology. 

5. Compare this statement with Win- 
throp’s theory (p. 207), in which divine 
grace must assist reason before man can 
submit himself to the rule of justice and 
equity. 


JOHN BARNARD 


1. “‘From the divine King”; ‘‘Is it not 
from Zeus?” 

2. John Tillotson (1630-1694), Arch- 
bishop of Canterbury, famous preacher 
of the moderate Anglican party, led the 
movement toward the simple, clear style 
in pulpit oratory and toward common- 
sense ethics and comprehensible teaching 
instead of theological complexities and 
intricate doctrines; that Barnard should 
quote Tillotson was equivalent to wearing 
the badge of the liberal school of thought. 


Notes 


Chapter III—This World 
and the Next 


JOHN COTTON 


1. See note, p. 766, for the distinction 
between justification and sanctification. 
It was probably Cotton’s preaching in 
the vein represented by this passage that 
led Mrs. Hutchinson to conclude that 
sanctification or righteous behavior had 
nothing to do with whether or not one 
was saved, and from Cotton’s strong in- 
sistence upon considering the motives 
from which good conduct springs rather 
than the goodness of the actions them- 
selves she derived the dangerous idea that 
the quality of one’s actions was of no 
consequence and that all one need be 
concerned about was being informed 
with the true spirit. 


INCREASE MATHER 


1. Such examples also give point to 
Hooker’s remarks on the attitude of con- 
verted sinners toward the ministers who 
have wrought their repentance, pp. 309— 
314. 

2. Dr. Thomas Goodwin (1600-1680), 
Independent divine, a leader of the In- 
dependent party in the Westminster As- 
sembly, friend of Cotton and Davenport. 

3. Franz Junius (1545-1602), French 
Huguenot divine. 

4. Mather’s admisson that eclipses of 
the sun and moon follow a regular and 
‘“‘unfailable” course and therefore may 
be predicted with certainty, with his re- 
striction of God’s unpredictable actions 
to the realm of ‘‘contingent things,”’ in- 
dicates the beginning of clerical conces- 
sions to the scientific account of the 
universe. 

5. Waldo and Waldenses, cf. note 


. 770. 
6. St. Augustine. 


URIAN OAKES 


1. ‘‘Bread for Belisarius.”’ 

2. ‘An honest good,” i.e., intrinsically 
good; “‘an expedient good,” i.e., con- 
ducible to good. 


i alae) 


3. Dr. John Preston (1587-1628), fa- 
mous Puritan divine and leader, Master 
of Emmanuel College, 1622; he exerted 
a profound influence on the first genera- 
tion of New England Puritans, many of 
whom studied under him at Cambridge, 
all of whom read his works; from his 
sermons the New England ministers de- 
rived the particular features of their doc- 
trine of the Covenant of Grace. 

4. “‘We came, we saw, we conquered” 
—a paraphrase of Caesar’s famous mes- 
sage. 

5. Reference to King Philip’s War, 
1674-1676, in which the male popula- 
tion of New England was decimated. 


JOSHUA MOODY 


1. Reference to the battle tactics em- 
ployed at the period, when reloading took 
time; troops were drawn up in three 
ranks, the first firing at the command 
“discharge,” retiring to the rear to load 
their weapons at the command “fall off”’; 
the second rank would then fire and re- 
tire, the third in turn, and the first rank 
be back in action once more. 


Chapter IV—Manners, Customs, 
and Behavior 


JOHN SMITH 


I. neare = nearer. Obsolete compara- 
tive of “nigh.” 

2. secure = careless. 

3. Son of Sir Humphrey Mildmay 


(d. 1613), and grandson of Sir Walter 


Mildmay, chancellor of the exchequer 
under Elizabeth and founder of Emman- 
uel College, Cambridge. 

4. For an account of Winthrop, see 
Pp. 125. 


THOMAS LETCHFORD 


1. A perennial herb growing in the 
northern part of both Europe and Amer- 
ica. Powerfully astringent, its root was 
often employed medicinally. 

2. This may refer to the land about 
Providence, Rhode Island, though there 
seems to be no record of any “Lords Isle.” 


vit 


JASPER DANCKAERTS 


‘These notes on Dantkaerts’s Journal 
are from the James and Jameson edi- 
tion of 1913 (see p. 404). 

1. This seems to mean the creek which 
made in from the cove at the foot of 
Milk Street. 

2. Simon Bradstreet, elected in May, 
1679, was governor of Massachusetts till 
1686—the last governor under the old 
charter. He had come out in 1630, and 
was now seventy years old. 

3. Original, “Jan Tayller of [Dutch 
for or] Marchand Tayller.”” No John 
Taylor of Boston answering to the de- 
scription has been identified. 

4. Sluyter was from Wesel, on the 
Rhine. Though it was a German town, 
many of its inhabitants were Dutch (like 
Peter Minuit) and Walloon. 

5. Captain John Foy appears in the 
records of the court of assistants, as still 
master of the Dolphin, in 16091. 

6. A Dutch settlement in Guiana, 
owned at the time by the province of 
Zeeland; the present Dutch Guiana. 

7. In the Azores. 

8. The Thursday Lecture. 

g. This fast is not noted in the elabo- 
rate list in Mr. Love’s Fast and Thanks- 
giving Days of New England. The Old 
South Church had a fast on June 29, 
O.s., but this was June 28, N.s. 

10. Rev. John Eliot (1604-1690), the 
Apostle to the Indians, came over to 
Massachusetts in 1631, and in 1632 was 
ordained as ‘‘teacher” of the church of 
Roxbury. He soon engaged in efforts to 
Christianize the Indians, and in 1646 
began to preach to them in their own 
tongue. He formed a community and 
church of “‘praying Indians” at Natick, 
and others elsewhere. His translation of 
the Bible into the dialect of the Massa- 
chusetts Indians was completed in 1658. 
The first edition of the New Testament, 
printed at Cambridge, was issued in 1661, 
the whole Bible (Old Testament of 1663, 
New Testament of 1661 imprint, and 
metrical version of the Psalms) in 1663. 

11. Eliot was not quite seventy-six. 

12. The first edition of the whole Bible 
seems to have been 1040 copies; of the 
separate New Testament, 500. Many 


The Puritans 


copies were lost or destroyed in the In- 
dian war of 1675-1676; but 16 copies 
now existing of the New Testament, and. 


39 of the Bible, in this first edition, are 


listed in Mr. Wilberforce Eames’s bib- 
liography. In 1677 Eliot began to pre- 
pare a revised edition of the whole work. 
It was published in 1685. The printing 
of the New Testament portion was begun 
in 1680 and finished in the autumn or 
winter of 1681; the printing of the Old 
Testament was not begun until 1682. 

Wonderful to relate, the identical copy 
of the Old Testament (edition of 1663, 
and metrical Psalms) which Eliot pre- 
sented to Danckaerts and Sluyter is still 
in existence, in the library of the Zee- 
land Academy of Sciences at Middelburg 
in the Netherlands. It lacks the title-page, 
but in its place contains the following 
manuscript note. See the Proceedings of 
the Massachusetts Historical Society, 
XIII, 307-310, and the Dutch pamphlet 
there named. 

““All Bibles of the Christian Indians 
were burned or destroyed by these heathen 
savages. This one alone was saved; and 
from it a new edition, with improvements, 
and an entirely new translation of the 
New Testament, was undertaken. I saw 
at Roccsberri, about an hour’s ride from 
Boston, this Old Testament printed, and 
some sheets of the New. The printing- 
office was at Cambridge, three hours’ ride 
from Boston, where also there was a col- 
lege of students, whether of savages or 
of other nations. The Psalms of David 
are added in the same metre. 

*“At Roccsberri dwelt Mr. Hailot, a 
very godly preacher there. He was at 
this time about seventy years cid. His 
son was a preacher at Boston. This good 
old man was one of the first Independent 
preachers to settle in these parts, seeking 
freedom. He was the principal translator 
and director of the printing of both the 
first and second editions of this Indian 
Bible. Out of special zeal and love he 
gave me this copy of the first edition, 
for which I ‘was, and shall continue, 
grateful to him. This was in June, 1680. 


“Jasper Danckaerts.” 


13. The first building of Harvard Col- 
lege, the building “‘thought by some to 


Notes 


be too gorgeous for a Wilderness, and 
yet too mean in others apprehensions for 
a Colledg” (Johnson, Wonder-working 
Providence, p. 201), had partly tumbled 
down in 1677. The building now visited 
was the ‘‘New College,” the second Har- 
vard Hall, built with difficulty 1672-1682 
and destroyed by fire in 1764. Edward 
Randolph, in a report of October 12, 
1676, writes: ““New-colledge, built at the 
publick charge, is a fair pile of brick 
building covered with tiles, by reason of 
the late Indian warre not yet finished. 
It contains 20 chambers for students, two 
in a chamber; a large hall which serves 
for a chappel; over that a convenient 
library.”” A picture of the building may 
be seen in the Proceedings of the Massa- 
chusetts Historical Society, XVIII, 318. 

14. Rev. Urian Oakes, minister of 
Cambridge, was at this time acting presi- 
dent, and was installed as president in 
the next month. There were apparently 
seventeen students in the college at this 
time who subsequently graduated, and 
perhaps a few others. The library no 
doubt contained more than a thousand, 
perhaps more than fifteen hundred books. 

15. The allusion is to the printing- 
office at Wieuwerd, which Dittelbach, 
Verval en Val der Labadisten (Amsterdam, 
1692), p. 50, says was a very costly one. 
The Labadists had everywhere main- 
tained their own printer, Louriens Autein 
going with them in that capacity from 
Amsterdam to Herford. As to the build- 
ing occupied by the famous Cambridge 
_ press, Randolph mentions “a small brick 
building called the Indian colledge, 
where some few Indians did study, but 
now it is a printing house.” Printing 


here was this year at a low ebb; nothing | 


is known to have been printed but the 
second edition of Eliot’s Indian New 
Testament. 

16. This is to ignore the voyages of 
Gosnold, Pring, Weymouth, etc., and the 
settlement at Fort St. George in 1607. 

17. The Connecticut. 

18. The reading is eer, but heer was of 
course intended. The control by the Eng- 
lish king was much more real than is 
here indicated. The next sentence alludes 
to the Navigation Acts and their evasion. 
As to customs, Edward Randolph had in 


ie. 


1678 been appointed collector for New 
England, and had begun his conflict with 
the Massachusetts authorities, but with 
little success thus far. Land-taxes did in 
fact exist. 

19. On Endicott’s [sic] cutting of the 
cross from the flag, in 1634, see Win- 
throp’s Journal, in this series, I, 137, 174, 
182. Since the decision then reached 
(1636), the cross had been left out of 
all ensigns in Massachusetts bay except 
that on Castle Island. 


JOHN DUNTON 


1. Now Court Street, Boston. 
2. Increase Mather, A Sermon... of 
Murder (Boston, 1687). 
Cotton Mather, The Call of the 
Gospel (Boston, 1687). 
Joshua Moody, An Exhortation to 
a Condemned Malefactor (Boston, 
1687). 

See also Cotton Mather, Magnalia 
(1702), for Morgan’s edifying speeches. 

3. Samuel Willard was teacher of the 
Third (Old South) Church in Boston. 
The ‘New Church” probably refers to 
the Second (Old North) Church, of 
which the Mathers were co-ministers. It 
had been rebuilt after the Boston con- 
flagration of 1676. These were the two 
largest auditoriums in Boston. 

4. About 1690, Major Jonathan Wade 
built a tavern in Medford, which was 
kept by Nathaniel Pierce. 

5. John Cotton (1658-1710), eldest 
son of Seaborn, and grandson of the first 
John Cotton, was graduated from Har- 


-vard College, along with his cousin 


Cotton Mather, in 1678. Three years 
later he was chosen a Fellow and Librar- 
ian of the College. In 1696 he was or- 
dained as pastor of Hampton, New 
Hampshire. 

6. John Eliot, who was eighty-two at 
the time, lived until 1690. 


SARAH KEMBLE KNIGHT 


1. The Reverend Joseph Belcher 
(1669-1723). 

2. I.e., Madam Belcher, wife of the 
pastor. She was a daughter of the poet 
Benjamin Tompson, q.v. p. 635. 


770 


3. The works of the Elizabethan ro- 
mancer, Emmanuel Ford. The most Fa- 
mous, Delectable, and pleasant, History of 
Parismus, the most renowned Prince of Bo- 
hemia ... (1598) went through twenty- 
six printings before the middle of the 
eighteenth century. It is listed by Francis 
Meres, Palladis Tamia (1598) as one of 
the books that should be forbid youth, 
as tending to corrupt morals. The Famous 
History of Montelion, Knight of the Oracle 
(earliest extant edition, 1633) is less 
known today. It is worth noting that 
Madam Knight speaks of both romances 
as if they were well known in her day. _ 

4. That the word clearly means a 
pipe for smoking is evident from its use 
on p. 433; see below, note g. Such a 
meaning for junk is not recorded in the 
New English Dictionary. 

5. Prov. Eng.: ringed; having a ring 
through the snout. 

6. A lean-to room; that is, one hav- 
ing a low, slanting roof. 

7. Lieutenant. Sometimes still pro- 
nounced, and formerly spelled, leftenant. 

8. English proverb: “Bare walls make 
gadding housewives.” 

g. See above, note 4. 

10. Gurdon Saltonstall (1666-1724), 
minister at New London, was a cele- 
brated preacher. He sat at one time as 
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of 
the Connecticut Colony. 

11. Pumpkins. 

12. The regular midweek religious lec- 
ture was held on Thursdays. Training 
days were those appointed for militia 
drill. 

13. ““The law of merchants”: the 
system of usages of commerce in force and 
recognized by law. 

14. Spanish saddlebags. Here face- 
tiously used of cheeks. 

15. Genteel. 

16. I.e., election days are ceremoni- 
ously observed. | 

17. Fitz-John Winthrop (1638-1707), 
eldest son of Governor John Winthrop, 
Jr. of Connecticut. He was educated at 
Harvard, but took no degree. After some 
time spent in the army in England, he 
returned to New England and served as 
a major-general in the expedition against 


Canada, 1690. He was the Connecticut | 


The Puritans 


agent in London, 1693-1697. He filled 
the office of governor of Connecticut 
from 1608 till his death. 

18. That is, “paid our tavern reckon- 
ing.” 

19. Place of public sale or auction. 

20. Beams and joints. 

21. Edward Hyde, Lord Cornbury, 
governor of New York, 1702-1708. He 
was the disreputable son of the famous ' 
Earl of Clarendon. 

22. A beverage, usually fermented, of 
honey and water. 

23. Spuyten Duyvil Creek, at Kings- 
bridge. The creek divides Manhattan 
Island from the mainland, and connects 
the Harlem River with the Hudson. 

24. Joseph Webb (1666-1732), pastor 
in Fairfield from 1694 till his death. He 
was one of the first Fellows of Yale 
College. 

25. James Pierpont (1660-1714), 
father-in-law of Jonathan Edwards, was 
an original trustee of Yale College and 
a Professor of Moral Philosophy. 


JOSEPH GREEN 


1. Asmall island near the tip of Long 
Island, settled by Lion Gardiner in 1639, 
and owned by direct descent until it was 
sold out of the family in 1936. It was orig- 
inally in the township of East Hampton. 

2. East Hampton was _ originally 
bought from the Indians in 1648, and 
settled by residents from Lynn, Massa- 
chusetts. 

3. Probably the Reverend Mr. Eben- 
ezer White (1672-1756), pastor of Sagg. 
Sag Harbor was a New England settle- 
ment with as many Indians and negroes 
as whites; largely a whaling village. 

4. The Reverend Mr. Joseph Whiting 
(1641-1723), called by Cotton Mather 
‘“‘a Worthy and Painful Minister of the 
Gospel” (Magnalia, III, 157). 

5. Joseph Coit, shipbuilder and deacon 
of the church at New London. His son 
Joseph had graduated from college two 
years later than Green. 

6. Thomas Blowers (1677-1729), class- 
mate of Green and pastor at Beverly. 

7. Samuel Gerrish of Boston, book- 
seller and Town Clerk, was Green’s 
brother-in-law, 


Notes 


8. Probably Increase Mather. 

g. The Reverend Mr. Benjamin Wads- 
worth (1670-1737) was later president of 
Harvard College. He was an influential 
Boston preacher. In his youth, as a col- 
lege tutor, he had been one of three who 
contributed money to help pay for Green’s 
education. 

10. The Reverend Mr. John Rogers 
(1666-1745), pastor at Ipswich, the eldest 
son of President Rogers of Harvard. 

11. The Reverend Mr. Nicholas Noyes 
(1647-1717), pastor at Salem. 


COTTON MATHER 


1. The metrical version of the Psalms, 
_ published in 1562, that remained in use 

into the eighteenth century, though gen- 
erally supplanted in New England by the 
Bay Psalm Book, q.v. p. 555: 

2. Abenezra or Ibn Ezra (1092-1167), 
distinguished Spanish Jew whose Old 
Testament commentaries were notable. 


SOLOMON STODDARD 


1. Thomas Fuller (1608-1661). 
_@, Henry Hammond (1605-1660), 

English scholar and divine, a writer 
of controversial tracts. 

3. “The long-haired Greeks.” 

4. “An empty habitation.” 


Chapter V—Biographies and Letters 


JOHN WINTHROP 


1. The first hint of a possible emigra- 
tion in Winthrop’s correspondence. 


THOMAS SHEPARD 


1. Lawrence Chadderton —§ (1536- 
1640), Master of Emmanuel College, a 
majestic figure, who exerted a great in- 
fluence on all Puritans of the early seven- 
teenth century through his teaching and 
preaching, his splendid personality, and 
his amazing longevity. 

2. The Pequot War. 


ROGER WILLIAMS 


1. Experiments of Spiritual Life @ Health 
(London, 1652). 
2. Cromwell. 


vi 


3. “The King’s Book” is the Ezkon 
Basilike. The sermons of Bishop Launce- 
lot Andrewes were the arch-embodiment 
of the High Church ideal of pulpit style 
and doctrine, as opposed to plain sermon 
and the Calvinist doctrine of the Puritan 
variety. Jackson and Taylor were An- 
glican authors, but Jeremy Taylor had 
recently advocated toleration in The Lib- 
erty of Prophesying, so that in citing him 
Mrs. Sadleir gave Williams an opening, of 
which he did not hesitate to avail himself. 

4. Evkonoklastes, 1649. 

5. Andrew Marvell (1621-1678), the 
poet, a friend of Milton, whom Milton 
recommended for assistant secretary in 
1653, though he was not appointed to 
the post until 1657; he was identified 
with Milton’s group, but that he helped 
Milton write Eikonoklastes is not true. 

6. John Winthrop, Jr., married a 
daugher of Hugh Peter. 

7. Edward Winslow (1595-1655), a 
leader among the Plymouth settlers, 
agent for the colony in England, gover- 
nor in 1633, 1636, and 1644, to relieve 
Bradford. It is probably a commentary 
upon the personality of Williams that 
both Winthrop and Bradford should 
think him a true saint even when they 
condemned his opinions, and that both 
Winthrop and Winslow, men of broad, 
statesmanlike qualities, should take pains 
to give him secret advices and even en- 
couragements, but would not have him 
within their own jurisdictions. 


INCREASE MATHER 


1. Puritans objected to stated holy 
days and fixed days for celebrations be- 
cause they believed them pagan in origin, 
because they almost always became occa- 
sions for dissipation and profanity among 
the people, and because they believed 
that God desired men to observe days of 
thanksgiving or of humiliation as events 
seemed to indicate from time to time, or 
as the spirit seemed to dictate. 

2. “Hence the custom of praising the 
dead, to which we are enslaved.” 

3. “No one can acquire a great fame 
and a great quiet at the same time,” 
Quintillian. 

4. Thomas Cartwright (1535-1603) 


778 


was the foremost spokesman for the Puri- 
tan cause in Elizabeth’s reign. Robert 
Parker (1564-1614), Paul Baynes (d. 
1617), and William Ames (1576-1633) 
were Puritan theologians and writers who 
worked out in common the draft of the 
non-separating Congregational church 
polity and were the true fathers of the 
New England ecclesiastical order. 

5. William Prynne (1600-1669), Puri- 
tan agitator and pamphleteer, pilloried 
and his ears cut off by sentence of Laud 
for his attack upon the Queen’s theatri- 
cals and upon the Laudian bishops. 

6. “A wise man foresees.” 

7. Thus Increase Mather married his 
father’s step-daughter. 

8. Girolamo Zanchius, Italian Protes- 
tant theologian, whose works were text- 
books in New England. 

g. “Good diet is better than any Hip- 
pocrates,”’ i.e., than any physician. 

10. ““The flail of the studious.” 

11. A quarrel in the First Church of 
Boston over the introduction of the Half- 
Way Covenant and the calling of the 
aged John Davenport from New Haven; 
the issue became a political one and re- 
sulted in the secession of half the con- 
gregation from the First Church to form 
the Third, or Old South. 

12. ‘“‘We have prospered in Synods, 
and now we die in this one.” 

13. Richard Mather was pleading on 
his deathbed with his son to embrace the 
decision of the Synod of 1662 setting up 
the Half-Way Covenant, the device by 
which it was determined that the children 
of persons who had been baptized but 
had never yet had an experience that 
could be ascertainably recognized as re- 
generation could be baptized on the 
strength of their parents’ being ‘‘Half- 
Way” members of the churches. Increase 
had publicly opposed his father on this 
question, and that he should print his 
father’s dying injunction to maintain the 
Half-Way Covenant was a handsome and 
pious manner of serving notice of his own 
conversion. 

14. “Strange things familiarly and 
familiar things unusually.” 

15. “The art is to conceal the art.” 

16. Arthur Hildersham (1563-1632), 
Puritan divine and controversialist. 


The Puritans 


COTTON MATHER 


1. “I scarcely call them mine,” Ovid, 
Metamor., 13, 141. 

2. Thomas Wilson (1525-1581), 
author of The Arte of Rhetorique; quota- 
tion from Clark’s Lives, ed. 1683, p. 19. 

3. “A dusty and most troublesome 
vocation, but by far the most favoured 
of God.” 

4. ‘‘Grotian’”? means of the opinion 
of Grotius, the great lawyer and theo- 
logian of the Arminian party in Holland; 
Grotius was read widely in New England, 
though his theories of the freedom of the 
will and of the atonement were con- 
sidered heretical. 

5. “Impart no life, because they have 
none,’’ reference to a knotty and thread- 
bare dispute in scholastic philosophy. 

6. Published Boston, 1678. 

7. Edward Winslow, in The Glorious 
Progress of the Gospel amongst the Indians of 
New England, 1649 (Collections of the Massa- 
chusetts Historical Society, Series 3, IV, 80). 

8. Cf. Cambden’s Remains (1637), 
Pp. 357: ““His conceit was obscure to me 
which painted a savadge of America 
pointing toward the sun, with Tibi ac- 
cessu, Mihi Recessu.’? Mather either de- 
liberately or unwittingly transposes the 
motto to read “‘As I approach, you re- 
cede”; he means that though Cambden 
could not understand this ‘“‘device,”’ it 
might well serve as the emblem for the 
life of Eliot. 

g. ‘“‘Interminable words.” 

10. “Soldier emeritus.” 

11. “When the luminaries undergo an 
eclipse, it is a bad sign for the world.” 

12. ‘“Two fortresses. stand against the 
visage of the foe.” 


SAMUEL SEWALL 


1. ‘We have come even to Cambridge 
to stabilize and correct manners.”’ 


EBENEZER TURELL 
1. William Whiston (1667-1752), the- 


ologian, divine, professor and free-lance 
popularizer of knowledge, friend of New- 
ton, in trouble for supposedly being an 
Arian, a brilliant but eccentric mind, 
ranging over the fields of theology, church 


Notes 


history, astronomy, physics, “endl chem- 
istry. rMiIMty TO {3 

2. “bong nocturnal studies are.  Taipst 
dangerous.” BETSET 

3. “No day without letters.” 


Chapter VI—Poetry ; ie 


JOHN WILSON 


1. In 1625 occurred the great London 
plague during which in the capital alone 
35,417 souls perished. Wilson’s figures are 
exaggerated. The “Bills of Mortality” 
issued in London, on which his figures 
are based, were compiled on the evidence 
of ignorant people. The first great plague 
in 1603 destroyed as great a number as 
that of 1625; that of 1609 about half as 
many. 

2. Surrounding districts over which 
London exercised jurisdiction. 

3. Obsolete form of ‘“‘more” (O.E. ad- 
verb ma), used of number rather than 
size. 


ANNE BRADSTREET 


1. The glede is the common Euro- 
pean kite. 

2. Small wooden casks 
lard, etc. 

3. Hebrew fleeing. The land 
which Cain fled, Genesis 4 : 16. 

4. The ocean. Thetis was one of the 
Nereids. 

5. The nightingale. Here Mistress 
Bradstreet is following poetic convention, 
for nightingales have never been native 
‘to America. 

6. Precede; anticipate (L. praevenire). 
The original meaning, but now obsolete. 

7. Revelation 2:17: He that hath 
an ear let him hear what the Spirit saith 
unto the churches; To him that over- 
cometh will I give to eat of the hidden 
manna, and will give him a white stone, 
and in the stone a new name written, 
which no man knoweth saving he that 
receiveth it. 

8. The poem seems to be based upon 
the idea of St. Paul (Romans 8), of the 
strife between the Flesh and the Spirit, 
or the law of the members and the law 
of the mind. 


for butter, 


into 


¥79 


g. Revelation 21 : 10-27; 22: 1-5. 

10. I.e., winter. The tenth sign of the 
Zodiac, which the sun enters about De- 
cember 21. 

11. I.e., summer. The fourth sign of 
the Zodiac, which the sun enters about 
June:21. 


NATHANIEL WARD, JOHN 
ROGERS, anp JOHN 
NORTON 


1. Joshua Sylvester (1563-1618) 
translated Du Bartas’s Divine Weeks and 
Works (collected ed., 1605). 

2. “for weariness.” 

a. marvel.” 

4. “shod by.” 

5. I.e., lying in the shelter. 

6. Pertaining to a town in Samnium 
(Maronea), famous for its wines. 

7. Mount Hybla in Sicily, famed for 


its honey. 
8. Dreary(?). 
g. Affrays. 
10. Site. 


11. Leave-takings; congés. 

12. Peneus, the chief river in Sicily. 
Also the name of the river god. 

13. Greek: “‘all-virtuous.” 

14. Perhaps a reference to Ormazd, 
the supreme deity of Zoroastrianism. 

15. Publius Vergilius Maro. 

16. Marcus Tullius Cicero. 

17. Cf. Francis Beaumont Ad Comitis- 
sam Rutlandiae: 


*‘Although I know whate’er my verses be, 

They will like the most servile flattery 
show, 

If I write truth, and make the subject 


99 


you. 


18. “Let all the people of Rome be 
silent before this marvel.” 


MICHAEL WIGGLESWORTH 


1. Careless. (Obsolete.) 

2. Practice or condition. (Obsolete.) 

3. The text reads “Gold.” 

4. As the 1715 edition and later. The 
text here reads “‘cush.” 

5. The spiritually reborn; regenerate. 

6. As the 1715 edition and later. The 
text here reads ‘‘where.” 


780 


. Assistant or helper. (Obsolete.) 
. Know how to. 
. Obsolete form of ‘‘more.”’ 
As the 1 a 5 edition and later. The 
‘chaste.” 


OO On 


I 
text bere reads ‘ 

11. Ceases. 

12. Would not. 

13. ‘‘All things pass except the love of 
God.” 

14. Judges 14:14: And he said unto 
them, Out of the eater came forth meat, 
and out of the strong came forth sweet- 
ness. And they could not in three days 
expound the riddle. 

15. Cf. with Anne Bradstreet’s poem 
“The Flesh and the Spirit.’’ This and all 
the following selections of Wigglesworth’s 
verse are from a group of poems printed 
with the 1689 edition of Meat out of the 
Eater (pp. [51]-208), but bearing a 
separate title-page: Riddles unriddled, or 
Christian Paradoxes Broke open, smelling like 
sweet Spice New taken out of Boxes. 


SAMUEL BRADSTREET anp 
DANIEL RUSSELL 


1. “Everything that lies concealed will 
be manifest in due time.” 

2. Tellus mater was the ancient Italian 
earth deity of marriage and fertility. 

3. Apollo is invoked as sun-god. 

4. Personifying Heaven. 

5. Archaic: “holds perforce.” 

6. Until 1752 in the British colonies 
in America the new year was reckoned as 
beginning in March. 

7. Lat. Hiems: “stormy weather.”’ 

8. Cancer, the fourth sign of the Zo- 
diac, which ushers in summer. 

g. The sun enters Virgo, the sixth sign 
of the Zodiac, about August 22. 

10. “Stable, yet always in motion.” 


BENJAMIN TOMPSON 


1. During King Philip’s Narraganset 
war the Indians attacked Marlborough, 
Groton, Rehoboth, and Chelmsford, Mas- 
sachusetts, and Providence, Rhode Is- 
land, in February and March, 1676, 
burning houses and barns, destroying 
cattle, and slaying the inhabitants. 

2. Official statistics recording the 
number of deaths. 


The Puritans 


3. Glory-fat or gloar-fat: especially 
dirty or unrefined fat. 

42: Asshur:.was the chief god of the 
Assyrians, usually depicted as a war 
deity. 

5. Samuel Newman _ (1600-1663), 
first minister of Rehoboth. His concord- 
ance of the Bible (London, 1643) was one 
of the best known prior to Cruden’s. 


URIAN OAKES 


. John Leverett (1662-1724), presi- 
cf of Harvard College, 1707-1724. 


EDWARD TAYLOR 


1. Used by Taylor here and elsewhere 
in the sense of “exhaling sweet odors’’: 
a very unusual form. 

2. The Meditations are all numbered 
and dated, and usually are founded upon 
some Bible text. This one—the first—was 
written in July, 1682. 

3. Dated June 8, 1684. The text is 
from John 6:52 (“I am the living 
bread’’). 

4. The Meditations are numbered in 
two series. This one is number 3 of the 
second series. The text is from Romans 
5:14 (“... who is the figure of Him 
that is to come’’). It is dated October, 
1693. Taylor continued to write about 
six Meditations a year until 1725. 

5. That is, Apples of Sodom, or Dead 
Sea Apples. 

6. Probably used in the sense of small 
or insignificant. 

7. Used by Taylor here a ee 
in the sense of “‘spread out” or “extend 
over.”’ A very rare Beets: 


ROGER WOLCOTT 


1. For a sketch of John Winthrop, Jr., 
see p. 739. In 1661, while Winthrop 
was governor of Connecticut, he was ap- 
pointed agent to go to England to pro- 
cure a charter from the King. By astute 
diplomacy Winthrop secured a charter 
so liberal that it served the colony and 
state until 1818. 

The selection opens with the arrival of 
news that the monarchy has been re- 
established under King Charles, 1660. 


Notes 


Chapter VII—Literary Theory 


PREFACE TO THE BAY PSALM 
BOOK 


1, Johannes Buxtorf (1564-1629), 
German Hebrew and Rabbinic scholar; 
author of Thesaurus Grammaticus Linguae 
Sanctae Hebraeae (1629). 


THOMAS HOOKER 


1. St. Jerome. His Life is included in 
Erasmus’s Complete Works (9 vols., Basel, 
1516-1520). 

2. “Ignorant of the Word.” 

3. “That a work needs decoration ar- 
gues weakness of structure.” 

4. ‘He who does not wish to be under- 
stood (clearly) ought to be passed over.” 


MICHAEL WIGGLESWORTH 


1. “In every activity of the spirit, yea 
even in sorrow, there is a certain pleas- 
ure.; 

2. Robert Turner, Orationes Septem- 
decim (1602). “‘It is proof of our sloth- 
fulness that since we are not able at best 
to do that which we ought, we are un- 
willing to do well that which we could.” 

3. “I shall either find a way or make 
one.” 

4. ‘This is the task, this is the work.” 

5. “By day hard work, by night un- 
ending toil, such as savor of some pains.” 


COTTON MATHER 


1. Pertaining to song (obsolete). 


JOHN BULKLEY. 


1. Arthur Golding (ca. 1536-ca. 1605). 
His chief work was his translation of Ovid. 
A man of strong Puritan sympathies, he 
also translated many of the works of 
Calvin. 


COTTON MATHER: “OF 
POETRY AND STYLE” 


1. Le., a spiteful critic. Zoilus (ca. 
400-320 B.C.) was a Greek grammarian, 
remembered chiefly for splenetic attacks 
on Homeric mythology. 

2. Marco Girolamo Vida _ (1490- 
1566), Italian epic poet and critic. 

3. ‘‘(writing) poetry now and then.” 


781 


4. St. Gregory Nazianzen (329-389), 
a father of the Eastern church, bishop of 
Sasima. He devoted his later life to lit- 
erary pursuits. 

5. Arthur Bedford, The Evil and Dan- 
ger of Stage Plays (1706). 

6. Samuel Butler (1612-1680), author 
of Hudibras (1663-1668), a satire on Puri- 
tans. 

Thomas Brown (1663-1704), school- 
master near London whose satires were 
witty, coarse, and abusive. 

Edward (‘‘Ned’’) Ward (1667-1731), 
humorist who wrote coarse satires upon 
the Whigs and Low Church. He was pil- 
loried for his Hudibras Redivivus (1705). 

7. Sir Richard Blackmore (1650- 
1729), physician and author of volumi- 
nous and turgid epics that were im- 
mensely popular with the Puritans. 

8. “‘Heady wine.” 

g. “Which (discourse) now to cut 
short.” 

10. See Hooker’s comment on St. Je- 
rome, p. 673. 

11. Anthony Blackwall (1674-1730), 
classical scholar. Among his writings were 
The Sacred Classics (1725) and Introduction 
to the Classics (1718), a scholarly descrip- 
tion of the beauties of ancient writers. 


MATHER BYLES 


1. “He raises a mighty roar, whereat 
the sea and all its waves shuddered and 
the land of Italy was affrighted far 
within, and Aetna bellowed in its wind- 
ing caverns” (Aeneid, III, 672-674). 


Chapter VI[I—Education 


NEW ENGLANDS FIRST FRUITS 


1. Elijah Corlet (1610-1688), master 
of the Grammar School at Cambridge 
from 1642 until his death. See p. 722. 

2. Marcus Tullius Cicero. 

3. “To stand, as they say, on his own 
feet.” 

4. Both are little known today and 
not used long at Harvard. Nonnus, an 
Alexandrian Christian of the fifth cen- 
tury, was author of Paraphrase of St. Fohn. 
James Duport, colleague of Charles 
Chauncy at Trinity College, Cambridge. 
The reference is either to his paraphrase 


782 


in Homeric verse of the Bible poetry, or 
to his Homeri Gnomologia, aphorisms col- 
lected from Homer. 

5. Martin Trost, Professor of Theology 
at Wittenberg, was the editor (1621- 
1622) of the Syriac New Testament. 

6. “‘...is given over to the study of 
rhetoric.” 


CHARLES CHAUNCY 


1. William Dell, The iryal of spirits 
(London, 1653). 

2. “The evil use of a thing does not 
destroy its good.” 

3. Girolamo Zanchi (Zanchius), Opera 
Theologica (Geneva, 1605). 


LEONARD HOAR 


1. M.H.S., “‘Papers 1636-75,” fol. 4. 
Printed inaccurately in 1 Coll. M.H.S., 
VI, 100-108. The then. (1799) editor of 
the Society touched up the original letter 
in ink, and used it for printer’s copy, thus 
making the establishment of the original 
text somewhat difficult. For a discussion 
of Peter Ramus, see pp. 28-41. 

2. Evidence that Jonathan Mitchell 
(A.B. 1647) had the Theses Logicae at 
least, is found in his MS theses, Mass. 
Archives, CCXL, 141. 5a. Richardson 
was the author of The Logicians School- 
Master (1657). 

3. Antonio Possevino, Bibliotheca de 
Ratione Studiorum (1607). 

4. The Bibliotheca Sancta (Venice, 
1566; and later editions to 1626), by 
Sixtus of Siena (1520-1569), a converted 
Jew and Dominican. See article ‘Sixtus 
von Siena” in Wetzer and Welte, Kzr- 
chenlexikon. 

5. Conrad Gesner (1516-1565), the 
Swiss botanist, physician, universal sa- 
vant, and pioneer Alpinist (cf. Arnold 
Lunn, The Alps, pp. 33-39). Hoar doubt- 
less refers to his remarkable, though in- 
completed, Bibliotheca Universalis (Zurich, 
1545-1549, and later editions and epi- 
tomes), a catalogue in the three learned 
tongues of all known writers and books. 

6. Georg Draud (1573-1635?), Bubli- 
otheca Classica (Frankfort-am-Main, 1611 
and 1625), a catalogue of books and 
authors that was superseded by Bayle’s 
Dictionnaire in 1697. 


The Puritans 


7. ““by way of birth.” 

8. “doth not a little distress me.” 

g. Isaac Ambrose, nonconformist, 
writer of Looking unto Jesus (1658) and 
other devotional works; Richard Baxter, 
author of The Saints Everlasting Rest (1650); 
Bishop Joseph Hall of Epistles fame, author 
of Christian Moderation (1640); and, prob- 
ably, Thomas Watson (d. 1686), Rector 
of St. Stephen’s, Walbrook, whose Three 
Treatises reached a sixth edition in 1660. 


THOMAS SHEPARD, JR. 


1. “Histories make Men Wise; Poets 
Witty; The Mathematicks Subtill; Naturall 
Philosophy deepe; Morall Graue; Logick 
and Rhetorick Able to Contend” (Bacon, 
“Of Studies,’ in Essayes, 1625, p. 294). 

2. “Frequent perusal, but rather dili- 
gence and industry.” 

3. “I prefer that you be educated 
rather than be so esteemed.” 

4. Virgilii Evangelisantis Christiados Libri 
ALL. ... Instante Alexandro Roseo Aber- 
donese. Londini, 1638. There is a copy of 
this edition in the Boston Athenaeum. A 
notice of the Rev. Alexander Ross 
(1591-1654) will be found in the Dic- 
tionary of National Biography. 


INCREASE MATHER 


1. Pierre Gassendi(1592—1655),French 
philosopher, scientist, and mathemati- 
cian, whose texts were widely used by 
students. Mather probably refers to Exer- 
ciattiones Paradoxicae adversus Aristoteles 
(Grenoble, 1624). 

2. Ermolao Barbaro (1454-1495), 
Italian scholar and diplomat. He trans- 
lated the paraphrase of Themistius on 
Aristotle at the age of nineteen. 

3. “Complete reality.” 


COTTON MATHER: ELEGY 
ON CHEEVER 


1. Gr. folly. 

2. A group of wild and picturesque 
islands 25 miles southwest of Cornwall, 
England. 

3. Abraham’s concubine; mother of 
Ishmael. A type of bondservant. | 

4. William Lily (ca. 1460-1522). His 
Eton Latin Grammar was a common text 
for generations of school boys. 


Notes 


5. Then (than). 

6. St. Augustine in his youth studied 
at Carthage, devoting his time to Latin 
poets. See Confessio, xiii, 21. 

7. Jean Tixier de Ravisi (ca. 1480- 
1524), French humanist, whose works 
were widely used throughout Europe as 
texts for a century and a half. 

8. John Davenport (1597-1670), 
founder of the New Haven Colony. 

g. Probably the most famous and in- 
fluential of all theologians of the ancient 
Christians. 


Chapter [IX—Science 
SAMUEL DANFORTH 


1. Samuel Stone (1602-1663), a 
founder of Connecticut, and teacher of 
the church at Hartford. 

2. John Miller (1604-1663), pastor of 
Yarmouth and later of Groton. 

3. Samuel Newman (1600-1663), first 
minister of Rehoboth. He is said to have 
predicted the exact moment of his death. 

4. John Endecott (1589-1665), bigoted 
and fanatical persecutor of the Quakers. 
He was many times elected governor of 
the Massachusetts Bay Colony. 


LEONARD HOAR 


1, Alexander Balaam (ff. 1656-1680), 
English merchant, traveler, and amateur 
botanist. 

2. Dr. Robert Morison (1620-1683), 
senior physician to Charles II, and first 
Professor of Botany at Oxford University. 

3. Henry Ashurst, merchant of Lon- 
don, treasurer of the New England Com- 
pany; not to be confused with his son 
Sir Henry Ashurst, friend of Increase 
Mather. 


COTTON MATHER: THE 
CHRISTIAN PHILOSOPHER 


1. John Woodward (1665-1 728), 
English naturalist and geologist. See his 


783 


contribution ‘Some Thoughts and Ex- 
periments concerning Vegetation,” Philo- 
sophical Transactions, XX1. 

2. John Ray (or Wray) (1628-1705) 
was a pioneer in English natural history. 

3- Mather is drawing from John 
Ray’s sermon Wisdom of God in the Crea-’ 
tion, Pt. I, for his references to other 
botanists. 

4. “Because he feeds man chiefly 
with it”; quoted from Ray. 

5. “It sustains all the body, to such 
a degree that in one bushel is contained 
nutriment for all the members of the 
whole body, and its strength is spread 
through all the body.” Mather adds 
this quotation to what he has read in 
Ray. 

6. The nine preceding paragraphs 
are taken directly from William Derham’s 
Physico- Theology (1713), wherein Mather 
found references to Grew. The work is 
a teleological argument for God, used by 
Paley a hundred years later. 

7 Buds. 

8. John Gerard (1545-1612), Eng- 
lish herbalist. Quoted from Derham. 

g. Ralph Lane was the first governor 
of Virginia. Said to be the first smoker 
in England, he brought from Virginia 
tobacco and pipes which he gave to Sir 
Walter Raleigh. 

10. Irritation. 

11. Johannes Pechlin (1646-1706), 
Dutch physician. 

12. Probably Johann Jacob Wald- 
schmidt (1644-1689), German physician 
and medical writer. 

13. Nahum Tate (1652-1715). 

14. “Wicked settlements.” 

15. Mather refers to Dr. George 
Cheyne, Philosophical Principles of Religion, 
Natural and Revealed (London, 1715). 


ZABDIEL BOYLSTON 


1. Pertaining to pits caused by small- 
pox. 

2. A plaster containing lead salts of 
the fatty acids, used for wounds. 


2§ BIBLIOGRAPHIES 


I. HISTORICAL BACKGROUND 


Inevitably a bibliography in which so many divisions obtain must occasionally 
seem arbitrarily constructed. Additional historical items will be found in Sections TV 
(Manners) and V (Biography). From the earliest times New England has been more 
felicitously interpreted by historians than by any other single group. The number of 
important studies, from those of Thomas Hutchinson to those of Charles McL. An- 


drews, runs to a formidable length. 


A. PRIMARY SOURCES 


Only sources of colonial history which deal with the Puritan colonies have been 


included. 


Acts and Resolves, Public and Private, of 
the Province of the Massachusetts Bay, The, 
Boston, 1869-1922, 21 vols. (Records 
from 1691.) 

Andrews, Charles McL., ed., Narratives 
of the Insurrections, 1675-1690, Original 
Narratives Series, New York, 1915. 

Bartlett, John R., ed., Records of the 
Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Planta- 
tions, in New England, Providence, 1856- 
1865, 10 vols. 

Bishop, George, New-England Judged, 
Not by Man’s, but the Spirit of the Lord, 
London, 1661. Second part, London, 
1667. Both parts, London, 1703. (Quaker 
attack on the Puritan regime.) 

Bradford, William, ““A Description and 
Historical Account of New England in 
verse; from a MS.,”’ Collections of the 
Massachusetis Historical Society, first series, 

“III (1794), 77-84. 3 
History of Plymouth Plantation, 
1606-1646. First printed in Collections of 
the Massachusetts Historical Society, fourth 
series, III (1856); the best edition is that 
of Worthington C. Ford, Boston, 1912; 
in Original Narratives Series, ed. Wil- 
liam T. Davis, New York, 1908. 

Calder, Isabel M., ed., Colonial Cap- 
tivities, Marches and Journeys, New York, 
1935. 

Child, Major John, New-Englands Jonas 
cast up at London, London, 1647. Reprinted 
in Collections of the Massachusetts Historical 
Society, second series, IV (1816), 107-120. 

Church, Benjamin, Entertaining Pas- 


sages Relating to Philip’s War which Began 
in the Month of June, 1675, Boston, 1716. 
Frequently reprinted; ed. Henry M. Dex- 
ter, Boston, 1865-1867, 2 vols. 

Clarke, John, Il] Newes from New-Eng- 
land; Or, A Narative of New-Englands Perse- 
cution, London, 1652; reprinted in Collec- 
tions of the Massachusetts Historical Society, 
fourth series, II (1854), 1-113. (An at- 
tack upon orthodox Puritanism by an 
Anabaptist.) 

Donnan, Elizabeth, ed., Documents Il- 
lustrative of the History of the Slave Trade to 
America, Washington, 1930-1935, 4 vols. 
(Vol. I, 1441-1700; important contribu- 
tion to colonial economic history.) 

Dow, George F., ed., Records and Files 
of the Quarterly Courts of Essex County, 
Massachusetts [1636-1692], Salem, 1911- 
1921, 8 vols. 

Drake, Samuel G., ed., The Old Indian 
Chronicle; being a Collection of Exceeding 
Rare Tracts, Boston, 1836. 

Dreuillettes, Father Gabriel, ‘“Narra- 
tive of a Journey to New England, 1650,”’ 
The Jesuit Relations and Allied Documents 
. .. 1610-1791 (ed. Reuben G. Thwaites, 
Cleveland, 1896-1901, 73 vols.), XXXVI, 
83-111. 

Dudley, Thomas, ‘‘Letter to the Count- 
ess of Lincoln,” in Joshua Scottow, Mas- 
sachusetts, pp. 36-47; Boston, 1696; also 
in Collections of the Massachusetts Historical 
Society, first series, Vol. VIII (1802); Col- 
lections of the New Hampshire Historical 
Society, Vol. IV (1834), 224-249; Force, 


785 


786 


Tracts, Vol. II, No. 4; Young, Chronicles 
of the First Planters. (Written in the first 
year of the settlement, the letter remains 
fresh and vivid with the very flavor of 
the early months.) 

Force, Peter, Tracts and Other Papers Re- 
lating Principally to the Origin, Settlement, and 
Progress of the Colonies in North America, 
Washington, 1836-1846, 4 vols. 

Foxcroft, Thomas, Observations Histori- 
cal and Practical, on the Rise and Primitive 
State of New-England, Boston, 1730. (Cele- 
bration of the first centennial of Massa- 
chusetts Bay.) 

Gookin, Daniel, “‘An Historical Ac- 

count of the Doings and Sufferings of The 
Christian Indians in New England, in 
the years 1675, 1676, 1677,” Transactions 
and Collections of the American Antiquarian 
Society, II (1836), 423-534. 
Historical Collections of the Indians 
in New England (preface: dated 1674), 
Boston, 1792; also in Collections of the 
Massachusetts Historical Society, first series, 
I (1792), 141-227. 

Gorton, Samuel, Simplicities Defence 
against Seven-Headed Policy, London, 1646; 
Force, Tracts, Vol. IV (1846), No. 6. (A 
heated but inchoate onslaught upon the 
Puritan regime by a religious visionary.) 

Groome, Samuel, A Glass For the People 
of New-England, London, 1676; reprinted 
in Magazine of History, XXXVII (1929), 
No. 3, 1-44. (A Quaker tract against the 
Massachusetts Bay Colony.) 

Hart, Albert B., ed., American History 
Told by Contemporaries, New York, 1897- 
1929, 5 vols. (Vols. I and II cover the 
Puritan period.) 

Higginson, Francis, New-Englands Plan- 
tation; Or, A Short and True Description of 
the Commodities and Discommodities of that 
Countrey, London, 1630; Collections of the 
Massachusetts Historical Society, first series, 
I (1792), 117-124; Force, Tracts, Vol. 
I, No. 12; Young, Chronicles, pp. 239- 
267, with introduction; Proceedings of the 
Massachusetts Historical Society, UXII 
(1930), 301-321. (Written by the first 
minister at Salem, who came with the 
advance guard in 1629; the initial reac- 
tions of Englishmen to the new scene.) 

A True Relacion of the Last Voyage 
to New England, MS. prepared 16209; first 
printed in Hutchinson, A Collection of 


The Puritans 


Papers, Boston, 1769; also in Young, 
Chronicles, pp. 213-239; Proceedings of the 
Massachusetts Historical Society, LXII 
(1930), 281-299. (Journal of the voyage 
of the advance contingent of the Massa- 
chusetts Bay Colony in 1629.) 

Hoadly, Charles J., ed., Records of the 
Colony and Plantation of New Haven, from 
1638 to 1649, Hartford, 1857. 

Records of the Colony or Jurisdiction 
of New Haven, from May, 1653, to the Union, 
Hartford, 1858. 

Howgil, Francis, The Popish Inquisition 
Newly Erected in New-England, London, 
1659. (Quaker attack on New England 
orthodoxy.) 

Hubbard, William, A General History 

of New-England, from the Discovery to 
MDCLXXX. First printed from MS. in 
Collections of the Massachusetts Historical 
Society, second series, Vols. V-VI (1815); 
best edd., Boston, 1848, 1878. (Written 
in 1680 at the request of and by subsidy 
from the General Court, it is based chiefly 
on Bradford and Winthrop, but inserts 
some items not found elsewhere. It was 
used by Cotton Mather and Thomas 
Prince in compiling their histories.) 
A Narrative of the Troubles with the 
Indians In New-England, Boston, 1677; ed. 
Samuel G. Drake, Roxbury, Mass., 1865, 
2 vols. 

Hutchinson, Thomas, comp., A Collec- 
tion of Original Papers Relative to the History 
of the Colony of Massachusets-Bay, Boston, 
1769; reprinted Albany, 1865, 2 vols. 
(An invaluable collection, containing 
documents of fundamental importance, 
the originals of which were lost at the 
time of the Revolution.) ; 

Johnson, Edward, A History of New- 
England. From the English planting in the 
Yeere 1628. untill the Yeere 1652... [better 
known by its running-title:] The Wonder- 
working Providence of Sions Saviour in New 
England, London, 1654; ed. William F. 
Poole, Andover, Mass., 1867; Collections - 
of the Massachusetts Historical Society, sec- 
ond series, Vols. II, III, IV, VII, VIIT 
(1814-1819); reprinted, 1826, 1846; ed. 
J. F. Jameson, Original Narratives Series, 
New York, rgro. (A history of the migra- 
tion and first two decades of settlement, 
written by a layman, a militia captain, 
and a settler of the town of Woburn. It 


Bibliographies 


is valuable in that it represents the point 
of view of the rank and file, although in 
a florid style not characteristically Pu- 
ritan.) 

Josselyn, John, An Account of Two Voy- 

ages to New-England, London, 1675; re- 
printed in Collections of the Massachusetts 
Historical Society, third series, III (1833), 
211-354. (Not a Puritan, the author is 
sometimes refreshingly critical of men and 
manners.) 
New-Englands Rarities Discovered: 
in Birds, Beasts, Fishes, Serpents, and Plants 
of that Country, London, 1672; reprinted, 
ed. E. Tuckerman, Transactions and Col- 
lections of the American Antiquarian Society, 
IV (1860), 133-238. 

Lechford, Thomas, “‘Note-Book Kept 
by Thomas Lechford, Esq., Lawyer, In 
Boston, Massachusetts Bay, From June 27, 
1638, to July 29, 1641,” ed. E. E. Hale, 
Transactions and Collections of the American 
Antiquarian Society, Vol. VII (1885). (Lech- 
ford, no Puritan, was a lawyer who came 
to Massachusetts to make a living; he 
could not overcome the Puritan prejudice 
against lawyers, and was debarred for 
trying to influence a jury. Leaving wife 
and goods, he returned to England. An 
invaluable firsthand record of daily life 
in New England.) 

Plain Dealing; Or, Newes from New- 
England, London, 1642; reissued in 1644 
with a new title; printed in Collections 
of the Massachusetts Historical Society, third 
series,’ III (1833), 55-128; also ed. 
J. H. Trumbull, in Library of New England 
History, No. 4, Boston, 1867. (An attack 
on Puritans, but surprisingly judicious.) 

Lincoln, Charles H., ed., Narratives of 
the Indian Wars, 1675-1699, Original Nar- 
ratives Series, New York, 1913. 

MacDonald, William, ed., Select Char- 
ters and Other Documents Illustrative of Amer- 
ican History, 1606-1775, New York, 1899. 

Mason, John, A Brief History of the Pe- 
quot War, first printed in part in Increase 
Mather, A Relation, 1677; reprinted by 
Thomas Prince (who identified the 
author), Boston, 1736; ed. Charles Orr, 
History, Cleveland, 1897; Collections of the 
Massachusetts Historical Society, second 
series, VIII (1819), 120-153. 

Masters, John, “Letter to Lady Bar- 
rington and Others, March 14, 1630/1,” 


787 


New England Historical and Genealogical 
Register, XCI (1937), 68-71. 

Mather, Cotton, A Brief Account of the 
State of the Province of the Massachusetts-Bay 
in New-England, Civil and Ecclesiastical, 
Boston, 1717. : 

Magnalia Christi Americana, Lon- 
don, 1702; reprinted, ed. Thomas Rob- 
bins, Hartford, 1853-1855, 2 vols. (The 
omnium gatherum of seventeenth-century 
New England, which could appropriately 
be listed under every section in this bibli- 
ography. A work of monumental scholar- 
ship that is amazingly accurate and 
perceptive. Cf. Preface, Selections from 
Cotton Mather, ed. K. B. Murdock, New 
York, 1926, for best critical estimate.) 
**Political Fables”? (MS. ca. 1692), 
Collections of the Massachusetts Historical So- 
ciety, third series, Vol. I (1825), 126-133; 
The Andros Tracts, Boston, 1868-1874, IT, 
325-332; reprinted in part, Murdock, 
Selections, pp. 363-371, with introduction. 
(In the form of beast fables Mather de- 
fends the government of New England 
under Phips against his detractors.) 

The Present State of New-England, 
Boston, 1690. 

Mather, Increase, A Brief History of the 

Warr With the Indians in New-England, 
Boston, 1676; reprinted, ed. S. G. Drake, 
under the title The History of King Philip’s 
War, Boston and Albany, 1862. 
A Relation Of the Troubles which have 
hapned in New-England, By Reason of the 
Indians there, Boston, 1677; ed. S. G. Drake, 
under the title Early History of New Eng- 
land, Albany, 1864. 

Morton, George, comp., Mourt’s Rela- 
tion. First published as A Relation or Four- 
nall of the beginning and proceedings of the 
English Plantation setled at Plimoth, London, 
1622; abbreviated in Purchas his Pilgrims, 
London, 1625, Bk. X, ch. iv; Collections 
of the Massachusetts Historical Society, first 
series, VIII (1802), 203-239; second 
series, IX (1822), 26-73; ed. Henry M. 
Dexter, Boston, 1865. (A minute diary of 
events from November, 1620, to Decem- 
ber, 1621, and probably the joint work 
of Bradford and Winslow. It is continued 
by Winslow as Good Newes from New- 
England, London, 1624. Often reprinted.) 

Morton, Nathaniel, New-England’s Me- 
moriall, Cambridge, 1669; facsimile ed. 


788 
by Arthur Lord, Boston, Club of Odd 
Volumes, 1903. 

Morton, Thomas, New English Ca- 
naan, Amsterdam, 1637; ed. Charles F. 
Adams, Boston, 1883. (A riotous attack 
on the Puritans by a gentleman of ques- 
tionable antecedents who clashed with 
the authorities of both Plymouth and 
Massachusetts Bay, and was expelled for 
conduct which they considered both im- 
moral and dangerous.) 

Noble, John, ed., Records of the Court of 
Assistants of the Colony of the Massachusetts 
Bay, 1630-1692, Boston, 1901-1904, 2 
vols.; Vol. III, ed: John F. Cronin, 1928. 

Prince, Thomas, A Chronological History 
of New-England In the Form of Annals, 
Boston, 1736-1755, 2 vols.; reprinted in 
Collections of the Massachusetts Historical So- 
ciety, second series, VII (1818), 189-295. 

Public Records of the Colony of Connecticut, 
The, Hartford, 1850-1890, 15 vols. Vols. 
1-3, ed. J. H. Trumbull; vols. 4-15, ed. 
C. J. Hoadly. (Vols. 1-7 contain rec- 
ords from 1636 to 1735.) 

Records of the Colony of New Plymouth 
in New England, Boston, 1855-1861, 12 
vols. in 10. Vols. 1-8, ed. Nathaniel B. 
Shurtleff; vols. gQ-12, ed. David Pulsifer. 

Records of the Suffolk County Court, 1671— 
1680, Publications of the Colonial Society of 
Massachusetts, Vols. X XTX, XXX (1933). 
Introduction by Zechariah Chafee, Jr. 

Rowlandson, Mary (White), The Sov- 
eraignty & Goodness of God, Together, with the 
Faithfulness of His Promises Displayed, and 
ed., Cambridge, 1682; facsimile reprint, 
ed. H. S. Nourse and J. E. Thayer, Lan- 
caster, Mass., 1903; ed. Frederick L. 
Weis, Boston, 1930. Reprinted frequently 
under title, The Narrative of the Captivity 
... of Mrs. Mary Rowlandson. 

Scottow, Joshua, Massachusetts; Or, The 

first Planters of New-England, The End and 
Manner of their coming thither, and Abode 
there, Boston, 1696. 
A Narrative Of The Planting of the 
Massachusets Colony Anno 1628, Boston, 
1694; reprinted in Collections of the Mas- 
sachusetts Historical Society, fourth series, 
IV (1858), 279-330. 

Shurtleff, Nathaniel B., ed., Records of 
the Governor and Company of the Massachu- 
setts Bay, Boston, 1853-1854, 5 vols. in 6. 
(Covering the period 1628-1686.) 


The Puritans 


Smith, John, Advertisements For the 

unexperienced Planters of New-England, or any 
where, London, 1631; reprinted in Col- 
lections of the Massachusetts Historical Society, 
third series, III (1833), 1-53. (““Promo- 
tion’’ literature designed to draw settlers 
to New England.) 
A Description of New England: or 
the Observations, and Discoveries, of Captain 
John Smith, London, 1616; reprinted in 
Collections of the Massachusetts Historical 
Society, third series, VI (1837), 95- 
140. 

Stearns, Raymond P., ed., ‘‘Corre- 
spondence of John Woodbridge, Jr., and 
Richard Baxter,” New England Quarterly, 
X (1937), 557-583. 

Ward, Ned, A Trip to New-England, 
London, 1699; reissued by the Club for 
Colonial Reprints, ed. G. P. Winship, 
Providence, 1905. (A libellous pamphlet 
with amusing passages on the peccadilloes 
of New Englanders.) 

White, John, The Planters Plea; or, The 
Grounds of Plantations examined, London, 
1630; facsimile, ed. Marshall H. Saville, 
The Sandy Bay Historical Society, 
Rockport, Mass., 1930; reprinted in 
Proceedings of the Massachusetts Historical 
Society, LXII (1929), 367-425. (A defense 
of the project for settling Massachusetts 
Bay, written by an English minister, and 
published while the fleet was on the 
water.) 

Whitmore, William H., ed., The Andros 
Tracts: being a Collection of Pamphlets and 
Official Papers, Boston, 1868-1874, 3 vols. 
(A collection of original narratives con- 
cerning the Andros regime, 1686-1689, 
and the revolution of 1689; important 
sources for general history and for po- 
litical theory and tradition.) 

Williams, John, The Redeemed Captive, 
returning to Xion, Boston, 1707; reprinted 
constantly; Springfield, Mass., 1908, with 
bibliography. (The most popular of all 
narratives of captivity, a “‘best seller” 
for a century.) : 

Winslow, Edward, Good Newes from 
New-England, London, 1624; abbreviated 
in Purchas his Pilgrims, London, 1625, Bk. 
X, ch. v; reprinted in Collections of the 
Massachusetts Historical Society, first series, 
VIII (1802), 239-276; also second series, 
IX (1822), 74-104; also fourth series, I 


Bibliographies 


(1852), 195-218 (where it is presented in 
hendecasyllabic couplets as well as in 
prose, from the London, 1648, edition). 
Reprinted in Edward Arber, The Story of 
the Pilgrim Fathers, London, 1897. 
Hypocrisie Unmasked: by A true Re- 
lation of the Proceedings of the Governour and 
Company of the Massachusets against Samuel 
Gorton, London, 1646; ed. H. M. Chapin, 
Providence, 1916. 

New-Englands Salamander, discov- 
ered by an irreligious and scornefull Pamphlet, 
called New-Englands Jonas, London, 1647; 
reprinted in Collections of the Massachusetts 
Historical Society, third series, II (1830), 
110-145. (A reply to Major John Child, 
in defense of Massachusetts.) 


789 


Winthrop, John, Wéinthrop’s Fournal 
“History of New England,” 1630-1649, ed. 
James K. Hosmer, Original Narratives 
Series, New York, 1908, 2 vols.; the best 
edition is that of James Savage, Boston, 
1825-1826. (Invaluable account from the 
pen of the first governor of Massachusetts 
Bay Colony.) 

Wood, William, New Englands Prospect, 
London, 1634, 1635, 1639; ed. C. Deane, 
Boston, 1865; ed. H. W. Boynton, Bos- 
ton, 1898. 

Young, Alexander, ed., Chronicles of the — 
First Planters of the Colony of Massachusetts 
Bay, from 1623 to 1636, Boston, 1846. 

- Chronicles of the Pilgrim Fathers... 
from 1602 to 1625, Boston, 1841. 


B. SECONDARY Works 


Consult also Section II B of this bibliography. 


Adams, Brooks, The Emancipation of 
Massachusetts, Boston, 1887. (A vigorous 
onslaught, inspired by a militant liberal- 
ism, upon what the author calls the tyr- 
anny of the Puritan priest.) 

Adams, Charles Francis, Three Episodes 
of Massachusetts History, Boston, 1892, 2 
vols. (The best account of the Antinomian 
affair.) 

Adams, James Truslow, The Founding 
of New England, Boston, 1921. (An inter- 
pretation in terms of “‘economic and im- 
perial relations,’ confessedly hostile to 
the Puritan way of thought.) 
Revolutionary New England, 1691- 
1776, Boston, 1923. 

Akagi, Roy H., The Town Ee of 
the New England Colonies , a 
Philadelphia, 1924. 

Andrews, Charles McL., The Beginnings 
of Connecticut, 1632-1662, New Haven, 


1934: 


The Colonial Period, New York, 
1912. (Excellent brief summary.) 

The Colonial Period of American His- 
tory, Vols. I-III: The Settlements, New 
Haven, 1934, 1936, 1937. (The first three 
volumes of what will become the stand- 
ard history; the culmination of a lifetime 
of work by the foremost authority on the 
field.) 


Colonial Self-Government, 1652-1689 
(The American Nation, Vol. V), New York, 


1904. 


The Fathers of New England, New 
Haven, 1919. Vol. VI of Chronicles of 
America, ed. Allen Johnson. (Popular pres- 
entation.) 

Our Earliest Colonial Settlements, 
New York, 1933. 

The Rise and Fall of the New Haven 
Colony, Publications of the Tercentenary Com- 
mission of the State of Connecticut, New 
Haven, 1936. 

The River Towns of Connecticut, 
Baltimore, 1889. 

Arnold, Samuel G., History of the State 
of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, 
4th ed., New York, 1894, 2 vols. 

Banks, Charles E., The Planters of the 
Commonwealth . . . 1620-1640, Boston, 1930. 

Barnes, Viola F., The Dominion of New 

England, New Haven, 1923. (The Andros 
regime, 1686-1689.) 
“Richard Wharton, A Seven- 
teenth Century New England Colonial,” 
Publications of the Colonial Society of Massa- 
chusetts, XX VI (1927), 238-270. 

Beard, Charles, A., and Mary R., The 
Rise of American Civilization, New York, 
1927, 2 vols.; revised and enlarged, 1933. 
(Brilliant study of American develop- 
ment, stressing chiefly social and eco- 
nomic aspects; the section on New 
England is regrettably brief.) 

Bebb, Evelyn D., WNonconformity and 
Social and Economic Life, 1660-1800, Lon- 


don, 1935. 


yor 


Becker, Carl L., Beginnings of the Amer- 
ican People, New York, 1915. 

Bining, Arthur C., British Regulation of 
the Colonial Iron Industry, Philadelphia, 
1933. 

Buffinton, Arthur H., “The Isolation- 
ist Policy of Colonial Massachusetts,” 
New England Quarterly, I (1928), 158-177. 
‘‘The Massachusetts Experiment 
of 1630,” Publications of the Colonial Society 
of Massachusetts, XXXII (1937), 308-320. 

Burrage, Champlin, The Early English 
Dissenters in the Light of Recent Research, 
Cambridge, Eng., 1912, 2 vols. 

Burrage, Henry S., The Beginnings of 
Colonial Maine 1602-1658, Portland, 1914. 

Byington, Ezra H., The Puritan as a 
Colonist and Reformer, Boston, 1899. 

The Puritan in England and New 
England, Boston, 1896. 

Calder, Isabel M., The New Haven Col- 
ony, New Haven, 1934. (An admirable and 
definitive study.) 

Cambridge Modern History, The, Vol. VII, 
and ed., New York, 1924. Chapter I, 
“The Colonies, 1607—1700’’; Chapter IT, 
‘The Colonies, 1700-1763.” 

Carman, Harry J., Social and Economic 
History of the United States, Boston, 1930. 
Vol. I, From Handicraft to Factory, 1500- 
1820. 

Caulkins, Frances M., History of New 
London, Connecticut, New London, 1852. 
(A good history of an important town.) 

Channing, Edward, History of the United 
States. Vol. I (New York, 1905), The 
Planting . .. rooo—1660; Vol. II (1908), A 
Century of Colonial History, 1660-1760. 

Clark, George N., The Later Stuarts, 
1660-1714, Oxford, 1934. (The best hand- 
book for English background; excellent 
bibliography.) 

Crouse, Nellis M., ‘‘Causes of the Great 
Migration,” New England Quarterly, V 
(1932), 3-36. 

Dexter, Henry M., The England and 
Holland of the Pilgrims, Boston, 1905. 

Douglas, Charles H. J., The Financial 
History of Massachusetis, New York, 
1892. 

Dow, George F., and John H. Ed- 
monds, The Pirates of the New England 
Coast, 1630-1730, Salem, 1923. 

Dow, George F., “Shipping and Trade 
in Early New England,” Proceedings of the 


The Puritans 


Massachusetts Historical Society, LXIV 
(1932), 185-201. 

Doyle, John A., The English in America. 
Vols. II and III, The Puritan Colonies, 
London, 1887. 

Ellis, Arthur B., History of the First Church 
in Boston, 1630-1880, Boston, 1881. 

Ellis, George E., The Puritan Age and 
Rule in the Colony of the Massachusetts Bay, 
1629-1685, New York, 1888. 

Field, Edward, ed., State of Rhode Island 
and Providence Plantations, Boston, 1902, 
3 vols. 

Foote, Henry W., Annals of King’s 
Chapel, Boston, 1882-1896, 2 vols. 

Friedman, Lee M., Early American Jews, 
Cambridge, 1934. 

Fullerton, Kemper, “Calvinism and 
Capitalism,” Harvard Theological Review, 
XXI (1928), 163-195. 

Gottfried, Marion H., ‘‘The First De- 
pression in Massachusetts,” New England 
Quarterly, IX (1936), 655-678. 

Greene, Evarts B., Provincial America, 
1690-1740, New York, 1905. (Vol. VI in 
The American Nation: A History, ed. A. B. 
Hart.) 

Greene, Evarts B., and Virginia D. 
Harrington, American Population before the 
Federal Census of 1790, New York, 1932. 
(The best available data.) 

Gutstein, Morris A., The Story of the 

Jews of Newport, 1658-1908, New York, 
1936. 
Hall, Albert H., ““How Massachusetts 
Grew, 1630-1642,” Publications of the 
Cambridge Historical Society, XXI (1936), 
14~49- 

Hart, Albert B., ed., Commonwealth His- 
tory of Massachusetts, New York, 1927- 
1930, 5 vols. 

Hill, Hamilton A., History of the Old 
South Church, Boston, 1890, 2 vols. (One 
of the most valuable of local church his- 
tories, covering the period 1669-1884.) 

Holmes, Abiel, The Annals of America, 
Cambridge, 1805; 2nd ed. 1829. (Vol. I, 
1492-1732.) 

Hooker, Roland M., The Colonial Trade 
of Connecticut, Publications of the Tercen- 
tenary Commission of the State of Connecticut, 
1936. 

Hutchinson, Thomas, The History of the 
Colony of Massachusetts-Bay, Boston, 1'764— 
1828, 3 vols.; ed. Lawrence S. Mayo, 


Bibliographies 


Cambridge, 1936, 3 vols. (Both a history 
and a source book; indispensable; should 
be used in the Mayo ed.) 

Jernegan, Marcus W., The American Col- 
onies, 1492-1750. A Study of Their Political, 
Economic and Social Development, New York, 
1929. (Vol. I in Epochs of American History. 
The best one-volume survey of the period, 
extremely compact; the bibliographies 
cull the best works published before 1929.) 
Laboring and Dependent Classes in 
Colonial America, 1607-1783, Chicago, 1931. 

Johnson, Edgar A. J., “Some Evidence 
of Mercantilism in the Massachusetts- 
Bay,” New England Quarterly, I (1928), 
371-396. 

Kennedy, William H. J., ‘‘Catholics in 
Massachusetts before 1750,”’ Catholic His- 
torical Review, XVII (1931), 10-28. 

Kimball, Gertrude S., Providence in Co- 
lonial Times, Boston, 1912. 

Labaree, Leonard W., ‘““The Royal 
Governors of New England,” Publications 
of the Colonial Society of Massachusetts, 
XXXII (1936), 120-131. 

Lothrop, Samuel K., A History of the 
Church in Brattle Street, Boston, Boston, 
1851. 

Love, William DeLoss, The Colonial 
History of Hartford, Hartford, 1914. 
Samson Occom, and the Christian In- 
dians of New England, Boston, 1900. 

McCutcheon, Roger P., “Americana 
in English Newspapers, 1648-1660,” Pub- 
lications of the Colonial Society of Massachu- 
setts, XX (1920), 84-96. 

McElroy, John W., “Seafaring in Sev- 
enteenth-Century New England,” New 


England Quarterly, VIII (1935), 331-364. - 


MacFarlane, Ronald O., ‘“The Massa- 
chusetts Bay Truck-Houses in Diplomacy 
with the Indians,” New England Quarterly, 
XI (1938), 48-65. 

Morison, Samuel E., Builders of the Bay 
Colony, Boston, 1930. (A history and in- 
terpretation of New England Puritanism 
in a series of brilliant biographical por- 
traits; an essential book; counters many 
of the theories of J. T. Adams, and estab- 
lishes and defines the essentially religious 
motivation of the settlement. Cf. review 
by J. T. Adams, New England Quarterly, 
III (1930), 741-746.) 

Morse, Jarvis M., “John Smith and 
His Critics: A Chapter in Colonial His- 


at 


toriography,” Fournal of Southern History, 
I (1935), 123-137. 

Neal, Daniel, The History of New-Eng- 
land, London, 1720; 2nd ed., 1747, 2 vols. 
The History of the Puritans, Lon- 
don, 1732-1738, 4 vols.; later editions. 
(Superseded in factual range by subse- 
quent works, yet still one of the best inter- 
pretations of the Puritan mind.) 

Newton, Arthur P., The Colonising Ac- 
twities of the English Puritans, New Haven, 
1QI4. 

O’Brien, Michael J., Pioneer Irish in 
New England, New York, 1937. 

Oldmixon, John, The British Empire in 
America, London, 1708, 2 vols. Vol. I: 
“The History of New England,” pp. 25- 
DEG; 

Osgood, Herbert L., The American Colo- 
nies in the Evghteenth Century, New York, 
1924, 3 vols. (A standard history, particu- 
larly concerned with political aspects.) 
The American Colonies in the Seven- 
teenth Century, New York, 1904-1907, 3 
vols. 

Palfrey, John G., A Compendious History 
of New England, Boston, 1858-1890, 5 
vols. (As detailed as was possible at the 
time; largely superseded by later works, 
but still valuable as a work of reference.) 

Park, Charles E., ‘“‘Friendship as a 
Factor in the Settlement of Massachu- 


setts,’ Proceedings of the American Anti- 
quarian Society, N.S. XXVIII (1918), 
51-62. 


Perley, Sidney, The History of Salem, 
Massachusetts, Salem, 1924. (Vol. I, cov- 
ering 1626-1637.) 

Phillips, James D., Salem in the Seven- 
teenth Century, Boston, 1933. 

Richman, Irving B., Rhode Island: A 
Study in Separatism, Boston, 1905. 

Rhode Island; Its Making and Its 
Meaning, New York, 1902. 

Robbins, Chandler, A History of the 
Second Church, or Old North, in Boston, Bos- 
ton, 1852. 

Rose, John Holland, A. P. Newton, 
and E. A. Benians, The Cambridge History 
of the British Empire, Vol. I: The Old Em- 
pire from the Beginnings to 1783, Cambridge, 
Eng., 1929. 

Rosenberry, Lois K. Mathews, The Ex- 
pansion of New England, Boston, 1909. 

Rose-Troup, Frances, John White, the 


792 | The Puritans 


Founder of Massachusetts, New York, 1930. Turner, Frederick J., ‘“The First Of- 
(Detailed, but injudicious.) ficial Frontier of the Massachusetts Bay,” 
The Massachusetts Bay Company and | Publications of the Colonial Society of Massa- 
Its Predecessors, New York, 1930. (Neither | chusetts, XVII (1915), 250-271. 
complete nor entirely accurate.) Usher, Roland G., The Pilgrims and 
Shannon, Fred A., Economic History of | Their History, New York, 1918. 
the People of the United States, New York, Wakeman, Henry O., The Church and 
1934. the Puritans, 1570-1660, London, 1887. (A 
Shipton, Clifford K., ““The New Eng- | convenient brief survey of religious back- 
land Clergy of the ‘Glacial Age,’”’ Publi- | ground for the Puritan migration.) 
cations of the Colonial Society of Massachusetts, Walker, George L., History of the First 
XXXII (1937), 24-54. Church in Hartford, 1633-1883, Hartford, 
“Immigration to New England, | 1884. 
1680-1740,” Journal of Political Economy, Waters, Thomas F., Ipswich in the Massa- 
LXIV (1936), 225-239. chusetts Bay Colony, Ipswich, 1905-1917, 
“The New England Frontier,” | 2 vols. (A good history of an important 
New England Quarterly, X (1937), 25-36. town.) 
Sly, John F., Town Government in Massa- Weeden, William B., Economic and Social 
chusetts, 1620-1930, Cambridge, 1930. History of New England, 1620-1789, Boston, 
Stearns, Raymond P., ““The New Eng- | 1890, 2 vols. (Still the best attempt at a 
land Way in Holland,’ New England | complete treatment of the subject; badly 
Quarterly, VI (1933), 747-792. ‘| organized, but a mine of information.) 
—— “The Weld-Peter Mission to Eng- Welles, Lemuel A., The History of the 
land,” Publications of the Colonial Society of | Regicides in New England, New York, 1927. 
Massachusetts, XXXII (1936), 188-246. The Regicides in Connecticut, Pub- 
Stoughton, John, History of Religion in | lications of the Tercentenary Commission of 
England, from the Opening of the Long Parlia- | the State of Connecticut, New Haven, 
ment, 4th ed., London, 1go1, 8 vols. (The | 1935. 
most readable and generally useful ac- Winsor, Justin, ed., The Memorial His- 
count of the English background.) tory of Boston, 1630-1880, Boston, 1880-— 
Sutherland, Stella H., Population Dis- | 1881, 4 vols. 
tribution in Colonial America, New York, Narrative and Critical History of 


1936. America, Boston, 1884-1889, 8 vols. (Still 
Sylvester, Herbert M., Indian Wars of | useful; each chapter includes an essay on 
New England, Boston, 1910, 3 vols. authorities which is often an excellent 


Trumbull, Benjamin, A Complete History | guide to source material.) 
of Connecticut, Civil and Ecclesiastical, New Wright, Louis B., Middle-Class Culture 
Haven, 1818, 2 vols.; new ed., New | in Elizabethan England, Chapel Hill, N. C., 
London, 1898. (Both a history and a | 1935. (Indispensable for social and cul- 
source book; invaluable.) tural backgrounds.) 


II. THEORIES OF THE STATE AND SOCIETY 


The most important single form of publication concerned with the theory of society 
was the election sermon, the discourse delivered annually to the General Court on 
the day of the election. Political and social issues were often discussed in the annual 
sermons delivered on the occasion for the electing of officers to the Ancient and 
Honorable Artillery Company of Boston. A complete list of these sermons would 
swell the pages of this bibliography beyond the point of usefulness, and only those 
of special importance are here listed. For further guidance to the sermons, consult in 
Section B: Roberts, Swift, Vail, and Whitman. 


A. Primary SOURCES 


Expressions of Puritan political and social theory are to be found scattered through 
sermons, journals, and letters. Very few works were dedicated solely to this particular 


Bibliographies 


799 


theme, so that a complete bibliography of passages of this sort would involve a repe- 
tition of almost all the titles mentioned in these lists. Consult in addition to the items 
here, those listed in section III A 2, for sermons devoted to ecclesiastical polity, all 
of which contain statements on the relation of Church and State, the basic social 
problem for Puritan theorists. (For convenience the following abbreviations are used 
in this section: AES (Artillery Election Sermon); MES (Massachusetts Election Ser- 
mon); CES (Connecticut Election Sermon). 


Appleton, Nathaniel, The Origin of War 
examin’d and applied, Boston, 1733. (AES) 

Barnard, John, The Throne Established 
by Righteousness, Boston, 1734. (MES) 

Belcher, Joseph, The Singular Happiness 
Of such Heads Or Rulers, As Are able to 
Choose out their Peoples Way, Boston, 1701. 
(MES) 

Belcher, Samuel, An Essay Tending to 
Promote the Kingdom of our Lord Fesus 

Christ, Boston, 1707. (MES) 

Book of the General Laws For the People 
within the Jurisdiction of Connecticut, The, 
Cambridge, 1673. (Codification of the 
laws after the union of Connecticut and 
New Haven.) 

Breck, Robert, The only Method to Pro- 
mote the Happiness of a People and their 
Prosperity, Boston, 1728. (MES) 

Buckingham, Thomas, Moses and Aaron. 
God’s Favour To His Chosen People, in Lead- 
ing them by the Ministry of Civil G Ecclesiasti- 
cal Rulers, Well Qualified for the Offices they 
are Called to Execute, New London, 1729. 
(CES for 1728.) 

Bulkeley, Gershom, The People’s Right 

to Election Or Alteration of Goverment in 
Connecticott, Philadelphia, 1689; Collections 
of the Connecticut Historical Society, I (1860), 
57-75; Andros Tracts, II, 83-109. 
Will and Doom, or The Miseries of 
Connecticut by and under an Usurped and 
Arbitrary Power [1692]; Collections of the 
Connecticut Historical Society, III (1895), 
69-269. (One of the most pronounced 
expressions of the radical implications of 
Puritan theory.) 

Bulkley, John, The Necessity of Religion 
in Societies, New London, 1713. (CES. 
Next to pamphlets of Wise, this is the 
best of early eighteenth-century treatises.) 

Burnham, William, God’s Providence In 
Placing Men In their Respective Stations & 
Conditions Asserted & Shewed, New Lon- 
don, 1722. (CES) 

Cobbet, Thomas, The Civil Magistrates 
Power In matters of Religion Modestly De- 


bated, London, 1653. (One of the best 
statements of the Puritan theory of Church 
and State, by the first minister at Lynn.) 

Colman, Benjamin, Faith Victorious, Bos- 
ton, 1702. (AES) 

Cotton, John, An Abstract Of Laws and 
Government. Wherein as in a Mirrour may be 
seen the wisdome © perfection of the Govern- 
ment of Christs Kingdome, London, 1641; 
1655. Reprinted in Thomas Hutchinson, 
A Collection of Original Papers, 1769; Force, 
Tracts, III, No. 9. (This code, known 
as “Moses His Judicials,” was never 
adopted by the colony of Massachusetts, 
but became the fundamental law for the 
stricter colony of New Haven. It formu- — 
lates the extreme religious program in 
society and law, but should be compared 
with that actually adopted by the Massa- 
chusetts General Court from the pen of 
Nathaniel Ward. Cf. Worthington C. 
Ford, “‘Cotton’s ‘Moses His Judicials,’ ”’ 
Proceedings of the Massachusetts Historical 
Society, second series, XVI (1903), 274— 
284; Isabel Calder, “‘John Cotton’s ‘Moses 
His Judicials,’’’ Publications of the Colonial 
Society of Massachusetts, XXVIII (1935), 
86-94. 

-— The Bloudy Tenent, washed, And made 
white in the bloud of the Lambe, London, 
1647. (Reply to Roger Williams; the 
classic Puritan statement on the question 
of toleration.) , 

The Controversie Concerning Liberty 
of Conscience in Matters of Religion, Truly 
stated, and distinctly and plainly handled, Lon- 
don, 1646. 

“Copy of a Letter from Mr. Cot- 
ton to Lord Say and Seal in the Year 
1636,” in Thomas Hutchinson, The His- 
tory of the Colony, ed. Mayo, I, 414-417. 
A Discourse about Civil Government 
in a New Plantation Whose Design is Reli- 
gion, Cambridge, 1663. (Perhaps the 
fundamental text for understanding the 
social objectives of orthodox Puritanism. 
Written for the guidance of the New 


194 


Haven Colony, it was intended for the 
planters who wished to create a society 
still more perfect than that of Massachu- 
setts Bay. It was published after Cot- 
ton’s death, and was long attributed 
to John Davenport, who saw it through 
_the press; cf. Isabel M. Calder, ““The Au- 
thorship of ‘A Discourse,’’’ American His- 
torical Review, XXXVII, 267-269.) 

A Letter to Mr. [Roger] Williams, 
London, 1643; ed. Reuben A. Guild, Pub- 
lications of the Narragansett Club, I (1866), 
285-311. 

Cutler, Timothy, The Firm Union of a 
People Represented, New London, 1717. 
(CES) 

Danforth, Samuel, A Brief Recognition 
of New-Englands Errand into the Wilderness, 
Cambridge, 1671. (MES for 1670.) 

Davenport, John, A Sermon Preach’d at 
the Election...1699, Boston, 1670; re- 
printed in Publications of the Colonial Society 
of Massachusetts, X (1907), 1-6. (MES for 
1669.) 

Davis, Andrew M., ed., Tracts Relat- 
ing to the Currency of the Massachusetts Bay, 
1682-1720, Boston, 1902. 

Colonial Currency Reprints, 1682— 
1751, Boston, 1910-1911, 4 vols. 

Dummer, Jeremiah, A Defence of the 
New-England Charters, London, 1721; 
Boston, 1721, and later. (Essential for an 
understanding of the fashion in which 
seventeenth-century Puritan theory 
merges by degrees into the Whig theory 
of the eighteenth century.) 

Eliot, Jared, Give Cesar his Due; Or, The 
Obligations that Subjects are under to their 
Civil Rulers, New London, 1738. (CES. A 
work that marks the complete domestica- 
tion of the, theories of Locke and Puf- 
fendorf in eighteenth-century Puritan 
theory.) 

Eliot, John, The Christian Commonwealth: 
or, The Civil Policy of The Rising Kingdom 
of Jesus Christ, London, 1659; republished 
in Collections of the Massachusetis Historical 
Society, third series, IX (1846), 127-164. 
(Published immediately after the Restora- 
tion, this book was extremely impolitic 
in its assertion of radical Puritan tenden- 
cies, and was therefore condemned by the 
General Court of Massachusetts. The ac- 
tion was rather a piece of strategy than a 
disapproval of the ideas. The book is 


The Puritans 


therefore an expression of theories that 
reached their fullest development during 
the period of the English Civil Wars, 
that were thereafter checked and to some 
extent driven underground, but that re- 
main in the background of New England 
thought, to reappear in the work of Wise, 
Mayhew, and the Revolutionary pam- 
phleteers.) 

Farrand, Max, ed., The Book of the Gen- 
eral Lawes and Libertyes (1648), Cambridge, 
1929. (Cf. also review by T. F. T. Pluck- 
nett, New England Quarterly, III (1930), 
156-159. 

Fitch, James, An Holy Connexion; Or, a 
true Agreement Between Fehovahs being a 
Wall of Fire to his People, and the Glory in the 
midst thereof, Cambridge, 1674. (CES) 

Hancock, John, Rulers should be Bene- 
factors, Boston, 1722. (MES) 

Higginson, John, The Cause of God and 
his people in New-England, Cambridge, 
1663. (MES) 

Hooke, William, New Englands Teares, 
for Old Englands Feares, London, 1641. 
(Expresses New England’s attitude to- 
ward the Civil Wars in England. It is 
also valuable as an expression of the 
Puritan feeling concerning war.) 

Hooker, Thomas, “Rev. Thomas 
Hooker’s Letter, in Reply to Governor 
Winthrop,” Collections of the Connecticut 
Historical Society, I (1860), 1-18. (An 
angry letter, the result of a dispute be- 
tween Connecticut and Massachusetts, 
wherein Hooker roundly asserts his po- 
litical philosophy.) 

Mather, Cotton, Durable Riches, Boston, 
1695. 

Fair Dealing, Boston, 1716. 

Mather, Eleazer, A Serious Exhortation 
to the Present and Succeeding Generation in 
New-England, Cambridge, 1671; Boston, 
1678. 

Mather, Increase, A Discourse Concern- 
ing the Danger of Apostacy, Boston, 1679; 
1685. (A review and summary of the state 
of New England; MES for 1677.) 

The Great Blessing of Primitive Coun- 
sellours, Boston, 1693. (MES) 

The Surest way to the Greatest Hon- 
our, Boston, 1699. (MES. The third of 
four election sermons Mather preached.) 
The Excellency of a Publick Spirit, 
Boston, 1702. 


Bibliographies 


Mayhew, Jonathan, A Dziscourse con- 
cerning Unlimited Submission and Non-Re- 
sistance to the Higher Powers, Boston, 1750; 
reprinted J. W. Thornton, The Pulpit of 
the American Revolution, Boston, 1860. (The 
final statement of Puritan radicalism in 
eighteenth-century terms.) 

Mitchel, Jonathan, Nehemiah on the Wall 
in Troublesom[e| Times, Cambridge, 1671. 
(MES for 1667.) 

Moody, Joshua, Souldiery Spiritualized, 
or the Christian Souldier Orderly, and Stren- 
uously Engaged in the Spiritual Warre, And 
So fighting the good Fight, Cambridge, 1674. 
(AES) 

Moss, Joseph, An Election Sermon... 
Frequent Readings and Studying the Scriptures 
and the Civil Law of the Common Wealth, 
is Needful and Profitable for Rulers, New 
London, 1715. (CES. One of the best 
statements of theory of social compact.) 

Noyes, James, Moses and Aaron: Or, The 
Rights of Church and State, London, 1661. 

Noyes, Nicholas, New-Englands Duty and 
Interest, To be an Habitation of Justice, 
Boston, 1698. (MES) 

Oakes, Urian, New-England Pleaded with, 
And pressed to consider the things which con- 
cern her Peace, at least in this her Day, Cam- 
bridge, 1673. 

Oxenbridge, John, New-England Free- 
men Warned and Warmede; To be Free in- 
deed having an Eye to God in their Elections, 
Boston, 1673. (MES for 1671.) 

Pemberton, Ebenezer, The divine Orig- 
inal and Dignity of Government Asserted, Bos- 
ton, 1710. (MES) 

Prince, Thomas, The People of New- 
England Put in mind of the Righteous Acts of 
the Lord to Them and their Fathers, and Rea- 
soned with concerning them, Boston, 1730. 
(MES) 

Richardson, John, The Necessity of a 
Well Experienced Souldiery, Cambridge, 
1679. (AES for 1675.) 

Shepard, Thomas, ‘“Thomas Shepard’s 
Election Sermon, in 1638,” New England 
Historical and Genealogical Register, XXIV 
(1870), 361-366. (MES. One of the best 
statements of the original political ideal.) 

Somers, John, The Security of English- 
men’s Lives; Or, The Trust, Power and Duty 
of the Grand Juries of England, London, 
1718; frequently reprinted. 


Stoddard, Solomon, The Way for a 


105 


People To Live Long in the Land that God 
Hath given them, Boston, 1703. (MES) 

Stoughton, William, New-Englands True 
Interest; Not to Lie, Cambridge, 1670. 
(MES for 1668.) 

Wadsworth, Benjamin, Rulers Feeding 
@ Guiding their People, Boston, 1716. 
(MES) 

Whitmore, William H., A Bibliograph- 
ical Sketch of the Laws of the Massachusetts 
Colony from 1630 to 1686, Boston, 1890. 
(Contains the “Body of Liberties,” the 
code written by Nathaniel Ward and 
adopted by the General Court in 1641.) 
ed., The Colonial Laws of Massa- 
chusetts. Reprinted from the Edition of 1672, 
Boston, 1887; 1890. 

Willard, Samuel, The Character Of a 
Good Ruler, Boston, 1694. (MES) 

The Man of War, Boston, 1699. 


(AES) 


The Only sure way to prevent threat- 
ned Calamity, Boston, 1684. (MES for 
1682.) 

Williams, Roger, The Bloudy Tenent of 
Persecution, for cause of Conscience, discussed, 
in A Conference beiweene Truth and Peace, 
London, 1644; ed. Samuel L. Caldwell, 
Publications of the Narragansett Club, Vol. 
III, 1867. 

The Bloody Tenent yet More Bloody: 
by Mr Cottons endevour to wash it white in 
the Blood of the Lambe, London, 1652; ed. 
S. L. Caldwell, Publications of the Narra- 
gansett Club, Vol. IV, 1870. 

The Hireling Ministry None of 
Christs, London, 1652. 

Mr. Cottons Letter Lately Printed, 
Examined and Answered, London, 1644; ed. 
R. A. Guild, Publications of the Narragan- 
sett Club, I (1866), 313-306. 

Williams, William, A Plea for God, and 
An Appeal to the Consciences of a People De- 
clining in Religion, Boston, 1719. (MES) 

Winthrop, John, “A Modell of Chris- 
tian Charity,” Winthrop Papers, Collections 
of the Massachusetts Historical Society, third 
series, VII (1838), 31-48; The Winthrop 
Papers, Massachusetts Historical Society, 
Boston, 1931, II, 282-295. (Written on 
the Arbella during the voyage to New Eng- 
land in 16930.) 

Wise, John, The Churches Quarrel Es- 
poused, Boston, 1710. 

A Vindication of the Government of 


796 
New-England Churches, Boston, 1717. (Re- 


issues of both titles in one volume, Boston, 


1772; 1862.) 


The Puritans 


Woodward, John, Civil Rulers are God’s 
Ministers, for the Peoples Good, Boston, 1712. 
(CES) 


B. SECONDARY Works 


Puritan social and economic theory was so inextricably woven into the re- 
ligious doctrine that few works were ever written specifically on the subject. Many 
titles in Section III also contain observations on social thought. 


Aldrich, Peleg E., “John Locke and 
the Influence of His Works on American 
Thought,” Proceedings of the American Anti- 
quarian Society, April, 1879, pp. 22-39. | 

Baldwin, Alice M., The New England 
Clergy and the American Revolution, Durham, 
N. C., 1928. (An able history of the de- 
velopment of Puritan thought into the 
Whig philosophy of the Revolution.) 

Blodgett, John T., ““The Political ‘The- 
ory of the Mayflower Compact,”’ Publica- 
tions of the Colonial Society of Massachusetts, 
XII (1911), 204-213. 

Borgeaud, Charles, The Rise of Modern 
Democracy in Old and.New England, Lon- 
don, 1894. 

Brennan, Ellen E., ““The Massachusetts 
Council of the Magistrates,” New England 
Quarterly, TV (1931), 54-93. (An excellent 
_ analysis of early government, contending 
that by 1644 political leadership had 
ceased to be responsible to God and had 
been made responsible to the freeman.) 

Buck, Edward, Massachusetts Ecclesiasti- 
cal Law, New York, 1866. 

Buffinton, Arthur H., ““The Puritan 
View of War,” Publications of the Colonial 
Society of Massachusetts, XXVIII (1935), 
67-86. 

Burrage, Champlin, The Church Cove- 
nant Idea, Philadelphia, 1904. 

Calder, Isabel M., “John Cotton and 
the New Haven Colony,” New England 
Quarterly, III (1930), 82-94. 

Cobb, Sanford H., The Rise of Religious 
Liberty in America: A History, New York, 
1902. 

Davis, Andrew M., Currency and Bank- 
ing in the Province of the Massachusetts-Bay, 
New York, 1901, 2 vols. 

Davis, Charles T., “Some Thoughts on 
Early Colonial Development,” Proceed- 
ings of the Massachusetts Historical Society, 
LXIV (1932), 507-515. (Legal develop- 
ment in New England.) 


Dexter, Henry M., As To Roger Williams, 
and his *‘Banishment’’ from the Massachusetts 
Plantation, Boston, 1876. (A vigorous state- 
ment of what was the orthodox view to- 
ward such a man as Williams in the 
seventeenth century; valuable for secur- 
ing the proper perspective upon Williams’ 
liberalism.) 

Dickinson, John, “Economic Regula- 
tions and Restrictions on Personal Lib- 
erty in Massachusetts,” Proceedings of the 
Pocumtuck Valley Historical Association, VII 
(1929), 485-525. 

Earle, Alice M., Curious Punishments of 
Bygone Days, Chicago, 1896. 

Ernst, James E., The Political Thought 
of Roger Williams, Seattle, 1929. 

Farrand, Max, “‘Massachusetts Laws of 
1660,” Publications of the Colonial Society of 
Massachusetts, XX VII (1932), 194-197. 

Figgis, John N., The Divine Right of 
Kings, 2nd ed., London, 1914. 

Ford, Worthington C., and Albert 
Matthews, ‘‘Bibliography of the Laws of 
the Massachusetts Bay, 1641-1776,”’ Pub- 
lications of the Colonial Society of Massachu- 
setts, IV (1910), 291-480. 

Gierke, Otto von, Natural Law and the 
Theory of Society, 1500 to 1800, Cambridge, 
Eng., 1934, 2 vols. (Introduction by 
Ernest Barker.) ' 

Gooch, George P., The History of Eng- 
lish Democratic Ideas in the Seventeenth Cen- 
tury, ed. H. J. Laski, London, 1927. 

Gough, J. W., The Social Contract, Ox- 
ford, 1937. 

Gray, Stanley, ““The Political Thought 
of John Winthrop,” New England Quar- 
terly, III (1930), 681-705. 

Greene, Maria L., The Development of 
Religious Liberty in Connecticut, Boston, 1905. 

Grinnell, Frank W., “John Winthrop 
and the Constitutional Thinking of John 
Adams,” Proceedings of the Massachusetts 
Historical Society, LXIII (1931), 91-119. 


Bibliographies 


Hilkey, Charles J., Legal Development in 
Colonial Massachusetts, 1630-1686, New 
York, 1gto. 

Jacobson, Jacob M., ed., The Develop- 
ment of American Political Thought: A Docu- 
mentary History, New York, 1932. 

Johnson, Edgar A. J., American Economic 
Thought in the Seventeenth Century, London, 


1932. 


“Economic Ideas of John Win- 
throp,” New England Quarterly, III (1930), 
235-250. 

Jordan, Wilbur K., The Development of 
Religious Toleration in England (1603-1640) , 
Cambridge, 1936. 

The Development of Religious Tol- 
eration in England... to the Death of Queen 
Elizabeth. London, 1932. 

Lauer, Paul E., Church and State in New 
England, Baltimore, 1892. 

Lord, Arthur, ‘“The Mayflower Com- 
pact,”’ Proceedings of the American Antiqua- 
rian Society, Ns. XXX (1920), 278-204. 

MclIlwain, Charles H., ““The Transfer 
of the Charter to New England, and its 
Significance in American Constitutional 
History,” Proceedings of the Massachusetts 
Historical Society, LXIII (1931), 53-64. 

Matthews, Nathan, “The Results of 
the Prejudice Against Lawyers in Massa- 
chusetts in the 17th Century,” Massachu- 
etts Law Quarterly, XIII (May, 1928), 73- 


94. 

Merriam, Charles E., A History of Amer- 
ican Political Theories, New York, 1903; 
1926. 

Mesnard, Pierre, L’Essor de la Philoso- 
phie Politique au XVF° Siécle, Paris, 1936. 

Miller, John C., “‘Religion, Finance, 
and Democracy in Massachusetts,”’ New 
England Quarterly, VI (1933), 29-58. (Es- 
tablishes a connection between emotion- 
alism of the frontier awakening with back- 
country hostility to urban financial 
control.) 

Miller, Perry, ““Thomas Hooker and 
the Democracy of Early Connecticut,” 
New England Quarterly, TV (1931), 663- 
712, (Examination of claims for demo- 
cratic origins of Connecticut in the light 
of orthodox Puritan theory.) 

Morgan, Edmund S., “The Case 
against Anne Hutchinson,” New England 
Quarterly, X (1937), 635-649. 

Morris, Richard B., ‘‘Legalism versus 


fae 


Revolutionary Doctrine in New Eng- 
land,” New England Quarterly, IV (1931), 
195-215. (Data on the low estate in which 
most lawyers were held in Massachusetts 
during the early colonial period.) 
“Massachusetts and the Common 
Law: The Declaration of 1646,’ Ameri- 
can Historical Review, XXXI (1926), 
443-453: 

Studies in the History of American 
Law, with Special Reference to the Seven- 
teenth and Eighteenth Centuries, New York, 


1930. 
Noble, John, “‘Notes on the Trial and 
Punishment of Crimes in... the Time 


of the Colony,”’ Publications of the Colonial 
Society of Massachusetts, III (1900), 51-66. 

Park, Charles E., ‘““Excommunication 

in Colonial Churches, Publications of the 
Colonial Society of Massachusetts, XII (1911), 
321-332. 
“Two Ruling Elders of the First 
Church in Boston,” Publications of the 
Colonial Society of Massachusetts, XIII 
(1912), 82-95. 

Parkes, Henry B., “John Cotton and 
Roger Williams Debate Toleration, 
1644-1652,” New England Quarterly, 1V 
(1931), 735-756. 

Pound, Roscoe, “Puritanism 'and the 
Common Law,” American Law Review, 
XLV (1911), 811-829. 

Reed, Susan M., Church and State in 
Massachusetts, 1691-1740, Urbana, IIl., 
1QI4. . 

Reinsch, Paul S., English Common Law 
in the Early American Colonies, University 
of Wisconsin, Bulletin II, No. 4, in Eco- 
nomics, Political Science, and History, 
1899. 

- Roberts, Oliver A., History of the Mili- 
tary Company of the Massachusetts. Boston, 
1895-1901, 4 vols. 

Schapiro, Jacob S., Social Reform and the 
Reformation, New York, 1909. 

Seybolt, Robert F., ““The Ministers at 
the Town Meetings in Colonial Boston,” 
Publications of the Colonial Society of Massa- 
chusetts, XXXII (1938), 300-304. 

Slafter, Edmund, John Checkley; or, The 
Evolution of Religious Toleration in Massa- 
chusetts Bay, Boston, 1897, 2 vols. 

Stead, George A., ‘‘Roger Williams 
and the Massachusetts-Bay,”’ New England 


Quarterly, VII (1934), 235-257: 


798 


Swift, Lindsay, ‘“The Massachusetts 
Election Sermons,” Publications of the Co- 
lonial Society of Massachusetts, I (1895), 
388-451. 

Tawney, Richard H., Religion and the 

Rise of Capitalism, New York, 1926. (An 
able and superbly written book, present- 
ing the economic background of the Prot- 
estant movement, with a section on New 
England in particular.) 
“Religious Thought on Social and 
Economic Questions in the Sixteenth and 
Seventeenth Centuries,” Journal of Politi- 
cal Economy, XXXI (1923), 461-493, 637- 
674, 804-825. 

Vail, Robert W. G., ““A Check List of 
New England Election Sermons,” Pro- 


The Puritans 


ceedings of the American Antiquarian Society, 
XLV (1935), 233-266. 

Weis, Frederick L., The Colonial Clergy 
and the Colonial Churches of New England, 
Lancaster, Mass., 1936. (A compendium 
of short biographical sketches.) 

Whitman,, Zechariah G., An Historical 
Sketch of the Ancient and Honourable Artillery 
Company, Boston, 1820; 1842. 

Wigmore, John H., editor-in-chief, Se- 
lect Essays in Anglo-American Legal History. 
Boston, 1907-1909, 3 vols. 

Woodhouse, Arthur S. P., Puritanism 
and Liberty, University of Toronto Quarterly, 
IV, No. 3, 1935. 

Wright, Benjamin F., Jr., American Inter- 
pretations of Natural Law, Cambridge, 1931. 


III. PURITAN RELIGIOUS THOUGHT 


In this section are listed the more important works illustrating the Puritans’ general 
view of the world and of life. Most of them are naturally sermons or theological 
treatises, yet in them can be found pronouncements upon the various problems of 
human existence, practical and philosophical. 


A. Primary SOURCES 


Since a full list of the original sources for a history of Puritan religious thought 
would include almost all the publications of Puritan spokesmen, only those items are 


mentioned that are particularly apt. 


1. The General View 


Adams, Charles F., ed., Antinomianism 
in the Colony of Massachusetis Bay, 1636- 
1638, Boston, 1894. (A collection of the 
materials relating to the trial and expul- 
sion of Anne Hutchinson; indispensable 
for an understanding of the philosophical 
issues of Puritanism.) 

Allin, James, Man’s Self Reflection a 
Means to Further his Recovery from His 
Apostacy from God, Cambridge, 1680. (A 
discussion of the réle of introspection in 
Puritan life.) 

Ames, William, Conscience with the Power 
and Cases thereof... Translated out of Lat- 
ine into English, for more. publique, benefit, 
London, 1643. (This and the following 
were the standard handbooks on theology 
and ethics in seventeenth-century New 
England. They are compact, methodical 
outlines of the official creed.) 

The Marrow of Sacred Divinity, 
Drawne out of the Holy Scriptures, and the 
Interpreters thereof, and brought into Method, 


London, 1638[?]. (Translated from the 
Latin Medulla Sacrae Theologiae, 1623.) 

Brattle, William, Compendium Logice 
Secundum Principia D. Renati Cartesii Ple- 
rumque Efformatum, et Catechistice Propositum, 
Boston, 1735. (The first American text on 
logic; used as a text at Harvard as late as 
1765.) 

Bulkeley, Peter, The Gospel-Covenant; or 
the Covenant of Grace opened, 2nd ed., Lon- 
don, 1651. (The most important exposi- 
tion of the concept of the covenant, a 
fundamental idea in New England Puri- 
tan thought.) 

Bulkley, John, The Usefulness of Re- 
veal’d Religion, to Preserve and Improve that 
which is Natural, New London, 1730. (Ex- 
tremely important document for the 
transition from seventeenth-century Puri- 
tanism to eighteenth-century rational- 
ism.) 

Chauncy, Charles, Enthusiasm Described 
and Caution’d Against, Boston, 1742. 

A Letter from a Gentleman in Boston 
to Mr. George Wishart, Edinburgh, -1742; 


Bibliographies 


~ reprinted, Clarendon Historical Society Re- 
prints, first series, No. 7, Edinburgh, 1883. 
(A description of the Great Awakening.) 
Seasonable Thoughts on the State of 
Religion in New-England, Boston, 1743. 
(Against Whitefield and enthusiasts of 
the Great Awakening.) 

Checkley, John, Choice Dialogues, be- 
tween a Godly Minister and an Honest Coun- 
tryman, concerning Election and Predestina- 
tion, Boston, 1720. 

Clarke, Samuel, A Mirrour or Looking- 
Glasse both for Saints, and Sinners, London, 
1646. (A contemporary estimate of the 
Antinomian heresy.) 

Colman, Benjamin, God Deals with us as 
Rational Creatures, Boston, 1723. 

— A Humble Discourse of the Incompre- 
hensibleness of God, Boston, 1715; 1740; 
Northampton, 1804. 

Cooper, William, Man humbled by being 
compar’d to a Worm, Boston, 1732. 

Cotton, John, A Briefe Exposition with 
Practicall Observations upon The Whole Book 
of Ecclesiastes, London, 1654. (A skeleton 
outline of a series of sermons; probably 
Cotton’s own notes. Since Ecclesiastes 
more than any other book of the Bible is 
concerned with what might be called secu- 
lar issues, this work is a mine of informa- 
tion on Puritan attitudes that are seldom 
discussed in the more strictly theological 
writings.) 

An Exposition upon the Thirteenth 
Chapter of the Revelation, London, 1656. 
Gods Mercie mixed with his Justice, 
London, 1641. (A ‘succinct statement of 
Puritan thought on one of the central 
problems.) 


London, 1630; Old South Leaflets, No. 53; 
cf. E. D. Mead, Proceedings of the Massa- 
chusetts Historical Society, 1, 101-115. (The 
valedictory sermon delivered as the fleet 
was to set sail in 1630; succinct expression 
of the Puritan aim in migrating to the 
new world.) 

Milk for Babes, Drawn out of the 
Breasts of both Testaments, chiefly for the 
spirituall nourishment of Boston babes in 
either England, but may be of like use for any 


Children, London, 1646; Cambridge, 1656. 


(Catechism for children; the theology is 
expressed in simplest terms.) 
The New Covenant; Or, a Treatise, 


Gods Promise To His Plantation, 


sa 


unfolding the order and manner of the giving 
and receiving of the Covenant of Grace to the 
Elect, London, 1654. 

— The way of Life, London, 1641. (A 
series of readable sermons, it is the best 
literary statement, in the least technical 
terms, of the Puritan code.) 

Dudley, Paul, An Essay On The Mer- 
chandize of Slaves & Souls of Men; ... With 
an Application Thereof to the Church of Rome, 
Boston, 1731. 

Dummer, Jeremiah, A Discourse on the 
holiness of the Sabbath-day, Boston, 1704. 
(Valuable for definitions of positive and 
natural law; for many important ideas 
at the turn of the century.) 

Fitch, James, The first Principles of the 
Doctrine of Christ, Boston, 1679. (The best 
succinct summary of the creed and phi- 
losophy of the New England variety of 
Calvinism.) 

Flynt, Josiah, ““The Worlds Eternity is 
an Impossibility,’ Almanack, Cambridge, 
1666. 

Haller, William, ed., Tracts on Liberty 
in the Puritan Revolution, 1638-1647, New 
York, 1934, 3 vols. 

Hanbury, Benjamin, ed., Historical 
Memorials Relating to the Independents or 
Congregationalists, from their Rise to the Res- 
toration, London, 1839-1844, 3 vols. (A 
collection of copious extracts from the 
writings of Congregationalists, including 
many of the New England apologists. It 
provides a text for many books not easily 
available, and enables New England 
thought to be seen as part of a whole 
movement in English religious life.) 

Hoar, Leonard, The Sting of Death and 
Death Unstung, Boston, 1680. 

Hooke, William, New-Englands Sence, of 
Old-England and Irelands Sorrowes, London, 
1645. 

Hooker, Thomas, The Application of Re- 
demption By the Effectual Work of the Word 
and Spirit of Christ, for the bringing home 
of Lost Sinners to God, London, 1657; 1659. 
(Sermons delivered at Hartford; the sum- 
mary of Hooker’s doctrine and spirit.) 
The Soules Exaltation, London, 


1638. 


The Soules Humiliation, 2nd ed., 
London, 1638. 
The Soules Implantation, London, 


1637. 


800 


The Soules Preparation for Christ, 
London, 1632. 

(These four works, which logically run 
Preparation, Humiliation, Implantation, and 
Exaltation, are the masterpieces of the most 
impassioned orator in the first generation 
of preachers. They were probably written 
before Hooker left England. They con- 
stitute the most minute and searching 
analysis of the soul and the process of 
spiritual regeneration, the most coherent 
and sustained expression of the essential 
religious experience ever achieved by the 
New England divines.) 

Johnson, Samuel, Samuel Johnson... 
His Career and Writings, ed. Herbert and 
Carol Schneider, New York, 1929, 4 vols. 

Mather, Cotton, Fair Weather, Boston, 
1691. 


The Faith of the Fathers, Boston, 
1699. 

—— “A Letter on the late Disputes 
about the Trinity,” preface to Thomas 
Bradbury, Necessity of Contending for Re- 
vealed Religion, Boston, 1720. 

A Man of Reason, Boston, 1718. 
Manuductio ad Ministerium, Boston, 
1726. (Handbook for preachers.) 

Reason Satisfied: and Faith Estab- 
lished, Boston, 1712. 

Reasonable Religion, Boston, 1700. 
“To the Reader,” The Boston 
Ephemeris, 1683. 

Mather, Increase, Angelographia, Bos- 
ton, 16096. 

Awakening Truths Tending to Con- 
version, Boston, 1710. 

A Call from Heaven To the Present 
and Succeeding Generations, Boston, 1679. 
A Discourse Proving that the Christian 
Religion, Is the only True Religion, Boston, 
1702. 


The Doctrine of Divine Providence, 
opened and applyed, Boston, 1684. 
Practical Truths Tending to Promote 
the Power of Godliness, Boston, 1682. 
Some Important Truths About Con- 
version, London, 1674; Boston, 1684. 
Soul-Saving Gospel Truths, Boston, 
17033 1712. 
The Times of men are in the hand of 
God, Boston, 1675. 

Mayhew, Experience, A Discourse shew- 
ing that God dealeth with Men As with Rea- 
sonable Creatures, Boston, 1720. 


The Puritans 


Mitchell, Jonathan, A Discourse of the 
Glory To which God hath called Believers By 
Jesus Christ, London, 1677; Boston, 1721. 

More, Paul Elmer, and Frank L. Cross, 
Anglicanism: The Thought and Practice of the 
Church of England, Illustrated from the Re- 
ligious Literature of the Seventeenth Century, 
Milwaukee, Wis., 1935. (The most con- 


venient source for tenets of the Puritans’ 


opponents.) 

Morton, Charles, The Spirit of Man, 
Boston, 1693. 

Norton, John, The Heart of N-England 
rent at the Blasphemies of the Present Genera- 
tion, Cambridge, 1659. (Condemnation 
of the Quakers.) 

The Orthodox Evangelist, London, 
1654. (Compact statement of the whole 
system of theology.) 

Oakes, Urian, The Soveraign Efficacy of 
Divine Providence, Boston, 1682. 

Parker, Thomas, The Copy of a Letter 
Written ... to His Sister, London, 1650; 
Boston, 1925. 

Pemberton, Ebenezer, Sermons and Dis- 
courses on Several Occasions, ed. Benjamin 
Colman, London, 1727. (A collection 
of the writings of one of the best minds 
in New England in the first two decades 
of the eighteenth century.) 

Powicke, Frederick J., ed., Some Un- 
published Correspondence of the Reverend 
Richard Baxter and the Reverend John Eliot, 
1656-1682, Manchester, Eng., 1931. 

Prince, Thomas, Morning Health No Se- 
curity Against the Sudden Arrest of Death be- 
fore Night, Boston, 1727. 

Prince, Thomas, Jr., ed., The Christian 
History, containing Accounts of the Revival 
and Propagation of Religion in Great-Britain 
GS America, Boston, 1744-1745, 2 vols. 
(America’s first religious periodical; the 
literary repository for the revivalist 
wing of the New England clergy in the 
Great Awakening, opposed to Charles 
Chauncy.) 

Robinson, John, Works, ed. Robert 
Ashton, Boston, 1851, 3 vols. (The writ- 
ings of the pastor of the Pilgrim congre- 
gation in England and Holland, who, 
though he did not come to America, ex- 
erted a great influence on the thought of 
New England.) ; 

Sewall, Samuel, Phenomena quadam 
Apocalyptica, Boston, 1697; 1727. 


— ae 


Bibliographies 


Proposals Touching the Accomplish- 
ment of Prophecies, Boston, 1713. 

Shepard, Thomas, “‘Letter to Hugh 
Petér,” American Historical Review, IV 
(1898), 105. 

New Englands Lamentation for Old 
Englands present errours, and divisions, and 
their feared future desolations if not timely 
prevented, London, 1645. (New England 
attitude toward religious developments in 
England during the Civil Wars.) 

Works, ed. John Albro, Boston, 
1853, 3 vols. (The collected writings of 
one of the four major figures in the first 
generation of New England divines.) 

Shepard, Thomas, Jr., Eye-Salve; Or, A 
Watch-Word From our Lord Fesus Christ unto 
his Churches, Cambridge, 1673. 

Sherman, John, “A brief Essay to 
promote a religious improvement of this 
preceding Calendar,’ Almanack, Cam- 
bridge, 1677. 

“A Monitory Advertisement,” Al- 
manack, Cambridge, 1676. — 

Stoddard, Solomon, The Duty of Gospel- 
Ministers to preserve a People from Corruption, 
Boston, 1718. 

Thacher, Thomas, A Fast of God’s Chus- 
ing, Boston, 1678. 

“Tracts Relating to the Attempts to 
Convert to Christianity the Indians of 
New England,” Collections of the Massa- 
chusetts Historical Society, third series, Vol. 
IV, 1834. (John Eliot, The Day-Breaking, 
1647; Thomas Shepard, The Clear Sun- 
shine, 1648; Edward Winslow, comp., The 
Glorious Progress, 1649; Henry Whitfield, 
The Light appearing, 1651; Strength out of 
Weaknesse, 1652; John Eliot and Thomas 


Mayhew, Tears of Repentance, 1653; John | 


Eliot, A Late and Further Manifestation, 
1655.) 

Wadsworth, Benjamin, Christ’s Fan in 
his hand, separating the wheat & chaff, Bos- 
ton, 1722. 

An Essay on the Decalogue, or Ten 
Commandments, Boston, 1719. 


of War, Boston, 1722. 
The Way of life opened in the ever- 
lasting Covenant, Boston, 1712. 

Ward, Nathaniel, The Simple Cobler of 
Aggawam in America, London, 16473; ed. 
David Pulsifer, Boston, 1843; Ipswich 
Historical Society, 1906. 


True Piety the best Policy for Times 


801 


Wheelwright, John, John Wheelwright. 
His Writings, ed. Charles H. Bell, Boston, 
1876. (The life and writings of a minister 
expelled from Massachusetts Bay for his 
friendship with the Antinomian party.) 

Willard, Samuel, The Barren Fig Trees 
Doom, Boston, 1691. 

A Brief Discourse of Justification, 
Boston, 1686. 

A Brief Reply to Mr. George Kieth, 
Boston, 1703. 

The Child’s Portion; Or, The Unseen 
Glory Of the Children of God, Asserted, and 
proved, Boston, 1684. 

A Compleat Body of Divinity in Two 
Hundred and Fifty Expository Lectures, Bos- 
ton, 1726. (The summa of New England 
theology; the first folio printed in Amer- 
ica; an immense repository, which makes 
dull reading, but is the authoritative 
reference book for the orthodox position 
on all points of the creed.) 

The Heart Garrisoned; Or, The Wis- 
dome, and Care of the Spiritual Souldier above 
all things to safeguard his Heart. Cambridge, 
1676. 


The High Esteem Which God hath of 
the Death of his Saints, Boston, 1683. (Ser- 
mon occasioned by the death of John ' 
Hull.) 

—— The Peril of the Times Displayed; 
Or, The Danger of Mens taking up with a 
Form of Godliness, But Denying the Power of 
it, Boston, 1700. 

Williams, Roger, Experiments of Spiritual 

Life @ Health, And their Preservatives, Lon- 
don, 1652; Providence, 1863. 
George Fox Digg’d out of his Bur- 
rowes, Boston, 1676; ed. J. L. Dimon, 
Publications of the Narragansett Club, Vol. 
V (1872). (Although the apostle of re- 
ligious liberty, Williams attacked Quakers 
furiously.) 


2. The Way of the Churches 


‘Barnard, John, The Lord Jesus Christ the 
only, and Supream Head of the Church, Boston, 
1738. (Important sermon, marking the 
ultimate outcome of the ecclesiastical 
polity, where the Congregational system 
is actually claimed to give liberty of con- 
science.) 

Cotton, John, The Keyes of the Kingdom 
of Heaven, and Power thereof, according to the 
Word of God, London, 1644. 


S02 


The Way of Congregational Churches 
Cleared, London, 1648. (The best state- 
ment in historical terms of the sources, 
background, and development of the 
New England polity.) 

Davenport, John, An Answer of the Elders 
of the severall Churches in New-England unto 
Nine Positions sent over to them, London, 
1643. (Written in 16309, it is the first at- 
tempt to systematize the principles of the 
New England ecclesiastical order.) 

The Power of Congregational Churches 
Asserted and Vindicated, London, 1672., 

Hooker, Thomas, A Survey of the Summe 
of Church-Discipline, London, 1648. (The 
most profound, philosophical, and rea- 
soned statement of the practical program 
of New England Puritanism. Indispen- 
sable.) 

Mather, Cotton, Ratio Discipline Fra- 
trum Nov-Anglorum, Boston, 1726; ed. 
T. C. Upham, Portland, 1829. (The best 
crystallization of a century of ecclesiasti- 
cal development in New England.) 

Mather, Increase, The Divine Right of 
Infant-Baptisme Asserted and Proved from 
Scripture And Antiquity, Boston, 1680. 

The Order of the Gospel, Professed and 
Practised by the Churches of Christ in New- 
England, Justified, Boston, 1700. 

A Dissertation, wherein The Strange 
Doctrine Lately Published in a Sermon, The 
Tendency of which, is, to Encourage Unsanctt- 
fied Persons (which such) to Approach the 
Holy Table of the Lord, is Examined and Con- 
futed, Boston, 1708. (Attack on Solomon 
Stoddard.) 

Mather, Richard, An Apologie of the 
Churches in New-England for Church-Cove- 
nant, London, 1643. 

Church-Government and Church-Cove- 
nant Discussed, London, 1643. (Cf. 


The Puritans 


T. J. Holmes, Proceedings of the American 
Antiquarian Society, N.S. XXXIII (1923), 
291-296.) 

Mather, Samuel, An Apology For the 
Liberties of the Churches in New England: To 
which is prefix’d, A Discourse concerning Con- 
gregational Churches, Boston, 1738. 

Perkins, William, Of the Calling of the 
Ministrie: Two Treatises. Describing the duties 
and Dignities of that Calling, London, 1606; 
Works, 1618, III, 429-463. (Perkins was 
regarded as one of the greatest of the- 
ologians by New Englanders, and_his 
works were standard texts; this treatise 
enunciates the Puritan conception of the 
role and function of the minister.) 

Shepard, Thomas, and John Allin, A 
Defence of the Answer made unto the Nine- 
Questions or Positions sent from New-Eng- 
land, London, 1648. 

Stoddard, Solomon, An Appeal to the 
Learned. Being A Vindication of the Right of 
Visible Saints to the Lords Supper, Though 
they be destitute of a*Saving Work of God’s 
Spirit on their Hearts: Against the Exceptions 
of Mr. Increase Mather, Boston, 1709. 

The Doctrine of Instituted Churches 
Explained and Proved from the Word of God, 
London, 1700. (A reply to Increase 
Mather’s The Order of the Gospel, this work 
initiated the so-called Stoddardean doc- 
trine: that all who professed belief in 
saving grace might therefore partake of 
the Lord’s Supper.) 

The Inexcusableness of Neglecting The 
Worship of God, under A Pretence of being in 
an Unconverted Condition, Boston, 1708. (A 
statement of Stoddard’s theories of church 
polity, marking a departure from the 
orthodox platform, and the beginning of 
a bitter controversy with Increase 
Mather.) 


B. SECONDARY WORKS 


There are few substantial studies of Puritan thought before the present cen- 
tury. Particularly within the last decade an effort has been made to examine and 
appraise Puritan thought as a chapter in intellectual history. This section of the 
bibliography should be supplemented by Section IT B. 


Bacon, Leonard W., A History of Ameri- 
can Christianity, New York, 1897. 

Banks, Charles E., “‘Religious ‘Persecu- 
tion’ as a Factor in the Emigration to 
New England,” Proceedings of the Massa- 


chusetts Historical Society, LX VIII (1934- 
1935), 136-151. 

Beardsley, Frank G., A History of Amer- 
ican Revivals, New York, 1912. 

Becker, Carl L., The Heavenly City of 


Bibliographies 


the Eighteenth-Century Philosophers, New 
Haven, 1932. (A brilliant analysis of 
eighteenth-century rationalism, inter- 
preting it as a new attempt to realize the 
Augustinian City of God on earth. This 
study of the religious overtones of eight- 
eenth-century thought helps to make 
comprehensible the tendencies of the 
seventeenth century.) 

Boardman, George N., A History of New 
England Theology, New York, 1899. (An 
analysis of the theological systems, but 
with very limited attention to the historic 
settings of the New England doctrine.) 

Cambridge Modern History, The, Chapters 
valuable for intellectual background: 
Vol. II (1903), Chap. xi, ‘“‘Calvinism and 
the Reformed Church”; Chap. xix, 
“Tendencies of European Thought in the 
Age of the Reformation”’; Vol. III (1905), 
Chap. xxii, “Political Thought in the Six- 
teenth Century”; Vol. TV (1906), Chap. 
xxvil, ‘‘Descartes and Cartesianism’’; 
Vol. V (1907), Chap. xi, “Religious 
Toleration in England”; Chap. xxiii, 
“European Science in the Seventeenth 
and Early Years of the Eighteenth Cen- 
tury”; Chap. xxiv, “Latitudinarianism 
and Pietism”; Vol. VI (1909), Chap. 
xxiil, “English Political Philosophy in 
the Seventeenth and Eighteenth Cen- 
turies.”’ 

Catholic Cyclopedia, The, New. York, 
1907-1914, 6 vols. (Extremely useful, par- 
ticularly for doctrinal history.) 

Choisy, Eugene, and others, Etudes sur 
Calvin et le Calvinisme, Paris, 1935. (A vol- 
ume of studies by many European au- 
thorities, on the foliation of Calvin,® 
presenting many parallels to New Eng-— 
land developments.) 

Clark, George N., The Seventeenth Cen- 
tury, Oxford, 1929. (An excellent survey 
of general conditions and intellectual cur- 
rents.) 

Clark, Henry W., History of English 
Nonconformity, London, 1911-1913, 2 vols. 

Cross, Arthur L., The Anglican Episco- 
pate and the American Colonies, New York, 
1902. (Chapters 6 and 7 deal with May- 
hew and the Chandler-Chauncy contro- 
versies.) 

Dale, Robert W., History of English Con- 
gregationalism, London, 1907. 

Davenport, Frederick M., Primitive 


803 


Traits in Religious Revivals, New York, 
1905. 

Davies, Godfrey, ‘‘Arminian versus 
Puritan in England, ca. 1620-1640,” 
Huntington Library Bulletin, No. 5 (1934), 
Pp- 157-179- 

Dexter, Henry M., The Congregational- 
ism of the Last Three Hundred Years, as Seen 
in its Literature, New York, 1880. (The 
monumental achievement of the greatest 
of Congregational historians, liberal but 
inevitably biased in favor of Puritanism. 
An immense bibliography of Congrega- 
tional literature, both English and Ameri- 
can, the fruit of years of research, is of 
great value.) 

Dunning, Albert E., Congregationalists 
in America. A popular history of their origin, 
belief, polity, growth, and work, Boston, 1894; 
New York, 1902. 

Eames, Wilberforce, “Early New Eng- 
land Catechisms,” Proceedings of the Ameri- 
can Antiquarian Society, N.s. XII (1897- 
1898), 76-182. 

Emery, Samuel H., The Ministry of 
Taunton, Boston, 1853, 2 vols. (Reprints 
of sermons of William Hooke, Samuel 
Danforth, and Ephraim Judson.) 

Faust, Clarence H., and Thomas H. 
Johnson, Jonathan Edwards, American 
Writers Series, New York, 1935. (Selec- 
tions from sermons, treatises, and letters; 
bibliography; discussion of intellectual 
and literary background.) 

Felt, Joseph B., Ecclesiastical History 
of New England; comprising not only Religious, 
but also Moral, and other Relations, Boston, 
1855-1862, 2 vols. (A sprawling, ill-di- 
gested amassing of material, valuable for 
the amount of first-hand material quoted 
and the immense if unorganized knowl- 
edge of local history.) 

Fenn, William W., The Christian Way 
of Life... in the History of Religion in New 
England, London, 1924. 

“John Robinson’s Farewell Ad- 
dress,” Harvard Theological Review, XIII 
(1920), 236-251. 

“The Marrow of Calvin’s The- 
ology,” Harvard Theological Review, I1 
(1909), 323-339. (Excellent.) 
“The Revolt against the Stand 
ing Order,” Religious History of New Eng- 
land, King’s Chapel Lectures, Cambridge, 
IQI7, 


804 


Fisher, George P., History of Christian 
Doctrine, New York, 1906. (Excellent 
handbook for the history of theology.) 

Ford, Worthington C., ““New England 
Catechisms,”’ Proceedings of the Massachu- 
setts Historical Society, LXII (1930), 28-29. 

Foster, Frank H., ““The Eschatology of 
the New England Divines,” Bibliotheca 
Sacra, XLIII (1886), 6-19. 

A Genetic History of the New England 

Theology, Chicago, 1907. (The best study 
of theological development. Unfortu- 
nately it devotes but one chapter to the 
period before Jonathan Edwards.) 

Foster, Herbert D., “‘International Cal- 
vinism through Locke and the Revolution 
of 1688,” American Historical Review, 
XXXII (1927), 475-499. (A penetrating 
study, demonstrating how Calvinism, 
filtered through Locke, eventuates in 
Lockean political philosophy.) 

Frere, Walter H., The English Church in 
the Reigns of Elizabeth and James I, Lon- 
don, 1904. (Very useful for English reli- 
gious backgrounds.) 

Gohdes, Clarence, ‘“‘Aspects of Ideal- 
ism in Early New England,” Philosophical 
Review, XX XTX (1930), 537-555. (Points 
out the influence of the Cambridge Pla- 
tonists in New England.) 

Gordon, George A., Humanism in New 
England Theology, Boston, 1920. 

Griffiths, Olive M., Religion and Learn- 
ing: A Study in English Presbyterian Thought 
from the Bartholomew Ejections (1662) to the 
Foundation of the Unitarian Movement, Cam- 
bridge, Eng., 1935. (An excellent study, 
tracing the steps of development whereby 
Calvinism becomes Unitarian rational- 
ism; a parallel movement to that in New 
England, which is much illuminated by 
the comparison.) 

Hall, Thomas C., The Religious Back- 
ground of American Culture, Boston, 1930. 
(A brilliant and often penetrating history, 
maintaining the questionable thesis that 
English Puritanism contains an element 
of thought inherited from Wycliff which 
is antagonistic to Calvinism.) 

Hallowell, Richard P., The Quaker In- 
vasion of Massachusetts, Boston, 1883. 

Haroutunian, Joseph, Piety versus Moral- 
ism: The Passing of the New England The- 
ology, New York, 1932. 

Hastings, James, ed., Encyclopedia of 


The Puritans 


Religion and Ethics, New York, 1908-1914, 
13 vols. (Very useful; bibliographies 
given.) | 

Hazard, Paul, La Crise de la Conscience 
Européenne, 1680-1715, Paris, 1935, 3 vols. 

Henson, Herbert H., Studies in English 
Religion in the Seventeenth Century, London, 

1903. (Extremely useful and stimulating.) 

Hornberger, Theodore, ‘‘Samuel Lee 
(1625-1691), A Clerical Channel for the 
Flow of New Ideas to Seventeenth Cen- 
tury New England,” Oszris, I (1936), 34.1- 
355: 

Hunt, John, Religious Thought in England 
JSrom the Reformation to the End of Last Cen- 
tury, London, 1870-1873, 3 vols. 

Hutton, William H., The English Church 
Srom the Accession of Charles I to the Death of 
Anne, 1625-1714, London, 1903. 

Jones, Adam L., Early American Philoso- 
bhers, New York, 1898. 

Jones, Rufus M., Mysticism and Democ- 
racy in the English Commonwealth, Cam- 
bridge, 1932. (Chapter on “‘Seeker Move- 
ment” is valuable for Williams and New 
England mysticism.) 

The Quakers in the American Colonies, 
London, 1911. 

Studies in Mystical Religion, Lon- 
don, 1909. 

Knappen, Marshall M., ed., Two Eliza- 
bethan Puritan Diaries, Chicago, 1933. 
(The introduction contains one of the 
best analyses of the Puritan character yet 
in print; it rebuts the thesis of Weber 
and Tawney.) 

Lecky, William E. H., History of the 
Rise and Influence of the Spirit of Rationalism 
in Europe, New York, 1866, 2 vols. (Al- 
though antipathetic to the religious point 
of view, this classic work is still essential 
to an understanding of the evolution of 
seventeenth-century New England into 
eighteenth.) 

Lee, Umphrey, The Historical Back- 
grounds of Early Methodist Enthusiasm, New 
York, 1931. 

McGiffert, Arthur C., Sr., Protestant 
Thought Before Kant, New York, 1929. 
(An excellent handbook; Chapter VIII on 
seventeenth-century Protestantism, and 
the section in Chapter IX on the New 
England theology, are especially useful.) 

McGiffert, Arthur C., Jr., Jonathan Ed- 
wards, New York, 1932. 


Bibliographies 


MacKinnon, James, Calvin and the Ref- 
ormation, London, 1936. (Probably the 
most convenient one-volume survey of 
“Calvinistic’? backgrounds, incorporat- 
ing most of the recent scholarship.) 

Masson, David, The Life of John Milton, 
London, 1859-1894, 7 vols. (Still one of 
the most useful studies of the background 
of English religious history.) 

Micklem, Nathaniel, ed., Christian Wor- 
ship: Studies in its History and Meaning, by 
Members of Mansfield College, Oxford, 
1936. 

Miller, Perry, ““The Half-Way Cove- 
nant,” New England Quarterly, VI (1933), 
676-715. 

—— ‘*The Marrow of Puritan Divin- 

ity,’ Publications of the Colonial Society of 
Massachusetts, XXXII (1938), 247-300. 
(Analysis of the theory of the covenant in 
Puritan theology and society; elements of 
rationalism were already in Puritan 
thought by 1630, differentiating New 
England theology from Calvinism and 
moving in the direction of eighteenth- 
century points of view.) 
Orthodoxy in Massachusetts, 1630- 
1650: A Genetic Study, Cambridge, 1933. 
(A study of the religious objectives of the 
New England Puritans in terms of their 
origins in England.) 

— — “The Puritan Theory of the 
Sacraments in Seventeenth Century New 
England,” Catholic Historical Review, XXII 
(1937), 409-425. 

Morais, Herbert M., Deism in Eighteenth 
Century America, New York, 1934. (A pio- 
neer work, which lists the names and the 
writings of American deists, but does not 


go very deeply into the analysis of in-~ 


tellectual currents.) 

Morison, Samuel E., The Puritan Pro- 
naos: Studies in the Intellectual Life of New 
England in the Seventeenth Century, New 
York, 1936. (A lively and readable survey 
of Puritan intellectual life, valuable for 
discussion of education and curriculum, 
but untrustworthy on literature and more 
philosophical aspects; cf. review by 
K. B. Murdock, New England Quarterly, 
TX (1936), 510-519.) 

—— ‘‘Those Misunderstood Puritans,” 
Forum, LXXXV (1931), 142-147. 

Murdock, Kenneth B., ““The Puritan 
Tradition in American Literature,” 


805 


Chapter V in The Reinterpretation of Ameri- 
can Literature, ed. Norman Foerster, New 
York, 1928. 

New Schaff-Herzog Encyclopedia of Re- 
ligious Knowledge, The,; New York, 1908— 
1912, 12 vols. 

Paradise, S. H., “Religion in Essex 
County,” Americana, X XIX (1935), 181- 
227 

Parrington, Vernon L., Main Currents 
in American Thought, New York, 1927— 
1930, 3 vols. Vol. I: The Colonial Mind. 
(A noble work that is still the best com- 
prehensive history of American thought; 
inspired by a militant liberalism, conse- 
quently hostile and unsympathetic to 
Puritanism; based upon lamentably in- 
sufficient familiarity with the sources, and 
therefore to be read for stimulation, not 
for fact or accuracy.) 

Pattison, Mark, ‘“‘Tendencies of Re- 
ligious Thought in England, 1680-1750,” 
in Essays, Oxford, 1889, 2 vols., Vol. I, 
42-119. 

Pickman, Edward M., ‘“The Collapse 
of the Scholastic Hierarchy in Seven- 
teenth Century France,” Proceedings of the 
Massachusetts Historical Society, LXIV 
(1931), 212-249. (The break-up of the 
scholastic world; valuable for understand- 
ing the background of Puritan intellectual 
history.) 

Platner, John W., “The Congrega- 
tionalists,”’ Religious History of New Eng- 
land, King’s Chapel Lectures, Cambridge, 
1917. (Excellent.) 

Plooij, Daniel, The Pilgrim Fathers from 
a Dutch Point of View, New York, 1932. 
(New material on the sustained interest 
of the emigrants from Holland in those 
left at Leyden.) 

Randall, John H., The Making of the 
Modern Mind, Boston, 1926. (Excellent 
handbook for the general intellectual 
background.) 

(Ray), Sister Mary Augustina, Ameri- 
can Opinion of Roman Catholicism in the 
Eighteenth Century, New York, 1936. 

Riley, Arthur J., Catholicism in New 
England to 1788, Washington, 1936. 

Riley, I. Woodbridge, American Philos- 
ophy: The Early Schools, New York, 1907. 
(Excellent as far as it goes, but not sym- 
pathetic to Puritanism in general; it 
sacrifices a study of the whole thought 


806 


to a concentration upon individual fig- 
ures.) 


American Thought from Puritanism 
to Pragmatism and Beyond, New York, 1915. 

Robertson, Johri M., A Short History of 
Freethought, Ancient and Modern, London, 
and ed., 1906, 2 vols. (Vol. II, Chapter 
17, “Early Freethought in the United 
States.”’) 

Schirmer, Walter F., Antike, Renaissance 
und Puritanismus, 2nd ed., Miinchen, 1933. 

Schneider, Herbert W., The Puritan 
Mind, New York, 1930. (A philosophical 
interpretation.) 


Sencourt, Robert, (pseud.,) Outlying 


Philosophy, London, 1925. (Stimulating 
essay on seventeenth-century thought, 
particularly on Sir Thomas Browne, but 
valuable for religious background.) 

Shipton, Clifford K., “‘A Plea for 
Puritanism,” American Historical Review, 
XL (1935), 460-467. 

Smyth, Egbert C., ““The ‘New Phi- 
losophy’ against which students at Yale 
College were warned in 1714,” Proceed- 
ings of the American Antiquarian Society, 
N.S. XI (1896-1897), 251-252. 

Stephen, Leslie, History of English 
Thought in the Eighteenth Century, London, 
1876, 2 vols. (The first chapters are useful 
as supplying a background for intellectual 
developments in early eighteenth-century 
New England.) 

Sweet, William W., The Story of Re- 
ligions in America, New York, 1930. 

Townsend, Harvey G., Philosophical 
Ideas in the United States, New York, 1934. 
(A popular presentation, not too reliable; 
the bibliography is excellent.) 

Tracy, Joseph, The Great Awakening: A 
History of the Revival of Religion in the. Time 
of Edwards and Whitefield, Boston, 1841. 
(Useful for the extracts from diaries, 
letters, colonial newspapers, etc.) 

Troeltsch, Ernst, The Social Teaching of 
the Christian Churches (trans. Olive Wyon), 
London, 1931, 2 vols. (A monumental 
work, emphasizing the social implications 
of religious and ecclesiastical groups; the 
section on New England is unfortunately 
based upon very slight familiarity with 
American sources.) 

Tulloch, John, Rational Theology and 
Christian Philosophy in England in the Seven- 
teenth Century, London, 1872, 2 vols. (Still 


The Puritans 


the best survey of the growth of rational 
religious thought-in England.) 

Tuttle, Julius H., “‘William Whiston 
and Cotton Mather,’’ Publications of the 
Colonial Society of Massachusetts, XIII 
(1912), 197-204. 

Uhden, Herman F., The New England 
Theocracy: A History of the Congregationalists 
in New England to the Revivals of 1740, Bos- 
ton, 1858. (Translation from the German © 
edition of 1842.) 

Voegelin, Erich, Ueber die Form des 
Amerikanischen Geistes, Tibingen, 1928. 

Waddington, John, Congregational His- 
tory, London, 1869-1880, 5 vols. (The 
most complete study of English origins 
and contemporary parallels of the ec- 
clesiastical order.) 

Walker, George L., Some Aspects of the 
Religious Life of New England, with Special 
Reference to Congregationalists, Boston, 1897. 

Walker, Williston, A History of the Con- 
gregational Churches in the United States, 
New York, 1894. (American Church His- 
tory Series. The standard short history; 
not so extensive on some subjects as 
Dexter, but more even and judicious.) 

Webb, Clement C. J., Studies in the 
History of Natural Theology, Oxford, 1915. 

Weber, Max, The Protestant Ethic and 
the Spirit of Capitalism (translated by Tal- 
cott Parsons), New York, 1930. (The 
classic interpretation of Protestantism 
from the economic point of view; it argues 
that Puritanism came into being as the 
discipline for a rising capitalist class, and 
is to be interpreted as a middle-class 
movement.) 

Whiting, Charles E., Studies in English 
Puritanism from the Restoration to the Revo- 
lution, New York, 1931. (The best work 
for English backgrounds after 1660.) 

Willey, Basil, The Seventeenth Century 
Background, London, 1934. (A challenging 
interpretation of various aspects of the 
century’s thought, that may err on the 
side of a somewhat too intuitive grasp, 
but supplies a number of stimulating 
ideas that promise to be fruitful if applied 
more particularly to Puritan history.) 

Young, Edward J., ‘‘Subjects for 
Master’s Degree in Harvard College from 
1655 to 1791, Proceedings of the Mas- 
sachusetts Historical Society, XVIII (1881), 


IIQ-I5I. 


Bibliographies 


807 


IV. MANNERS 


This section is designed to list items that shed light upon the diversions and voca- 
tions of Puritans, their daily lives and behavior. The student will find further essential 
material listed under Section V (Biography), especially in the part dealing with 
diaries, journals, and personal papers. See also Section I A. 


A. Primary SouRCES 


The bibliography could be indefinitely extended, for good pastors never wearied 
of advising their flocks in matters of conduct. 


Allin, James, Serious Advice to Delivered 
Ones From Sickness, Boston, 1679. 


Belcher, Joseph, Duty of Parents, Boston, — 


1710. 

Bridge, William, Word to the Aged, Bos- 
ton, 1679. 

Colman, Benjamin, The Government @ 
Improvement of Mirth, Boston, 1707. 

The Hainous Nature of the Sin of 
Murder, Boston, 1713. 

“Letter to Mrs. John George” 
(1701), Publications of the Colonial Society 
of Massachusetts, VIII (1906), 246-250. 
(Advice on women’s apparel.) 

Constables Pocket-Book, The, 2nd ed., 
Boston, 1727. 

Danckaerts, Jasper, Journal of Jasper 
Danckaerts [and Peter Sluyter|, 1679-1680, 
printed from manuscript by the Long 
Island Historical Society, 1867; also in 
Original Narratives Series, ed. B. B. 
James and J. F. Jameson, New York, 
1913. (Contains notes on a visit to Cam- 
bridge and Boston, together with sketches 
of some of the residents.) 

Danforth, Samuel, The Woful Effects of 
Drunkenness, Boston, 1710. 

Dunton, John, John Dunton’s Letters 


from New-England [ca. 1686], ed. W. H. ~ 


Whitmore, Boston, Prince Society, 1867. 
(Agreeable but unreliable; see C. N. 
Greenough, “John Dunton’s Letters,” 
Publications of the Colonial Society of Mas- 
sachusetts, XIV (1913), 213-257.) 
Gay, Ebenezer, Ministers are Men of Like 
Passions with Others, Boston, 1725. 
Hubbard, William, The Benefit of a 
Well-Ordered Conversation, Boston, 1684. 
Mather, Cotton, The Accomplished Singer, 
Boston, 1721. 
Agricola; Or, the Religious Husband- 
man, Boston, 1727. 
Bonifacius, Boston, 1710; reprinted 
as Essays to do Good in many subsequent 


eighteenth- and nineteenth-century edi- 
tions published in Boston and London. 


A Family Well-Ordered, Boston, 


1699. 

—— Gospel for the Poor, Boston, 1697. 
Lex Mercatoria; Or, The Just Rules 
of Commerce Declared, Boston, 1704. 
Ornaments for the Daughters of Zion, 
Boston, 1692. (The position of women in 
society and the code of feminine deport- 
ment.) 


The Religious Marriner, Boston, 
1700. 


Sober Considerations, on a growing 
Flood of Iniquity: . . . the Woful Consequences 
[of] the Prevailing Abuse of Rum, Boston, 
1708. 


The Way to Prosperity, Boston, 
1690. 

Mather, Increase, An Arrow against Pro- 
fane and Promiscuous Dancing. Drawn out of 
the Quiver of the Scriptures, Boston, 1684; 
1686. 


Meditations on the Glory of the Heav- 
enly World, Boston, 1711. 

The Original Rights of Mankind 
Freely to Subdue and Improve the Earth, Bos- 
TOMS 1722. 

Seasonable Meditations Both for Win- 
ter & Summer, Boston, 1712. (Orthodox 
views on Sabbath-keeping.) 

A Testimony against several Prophane 
and Superstitious Customs, Now practised by 
some in New-England, London, 1687. 

Mather, Samuel, An Essay Concerning 
Gratitude, Boston, 1732. 

Moody, Samuel, The Debtor’s Mon- 
itor, Boston, 1715. 

New Husbandry to New-England, Phila- 
delphia, 1692. 

Pemberton, Ebenezer, Advice to a Son 
A Sermon Preached at the Request of a Gentle- 
man... Upon his Son’s going to Europe, 
Boston, 1705. 


808 


Prince, Thomas, The Vade Mecum for 
America; Or, A Companion for Traders and 
Travellers, Boston, 1732. (A manual for 
travel, with tables of weights, charts of 
distance, etc., prepared by the learned 
Boston minister.) 

Salva Conducta; Or, A Safe Conduct for the 
Increase of Trade in New-England, Boston, 
1699. (Issued 13 times before 1700.) 

School of Good Manners, The, New Lon- 
don, 1715. 

Sewall, Samuel, The Selling of Joseph, 
Boston, 1700. (The earliest antislavery 
pamphlet in America.) 

Shepard, Thomas, Jr., Wine for Gospel 
Wantons, Cambridge, 1668. 

Stoddard, Solomon, An Answer to Some 
Cases of Conscience Respecting the Country, 
Boston, 1722. 


The Puritans 


Symmes, Thomas, The Reasonableness of 
Regular Singing, Boston, 1720. 

Twichell, Joseph H., ed., Some Old 
Puritan Love-Letiers, John and Margaret 
Winthrop, 1618-1638, New York, 1893. 

Wadsworth, Benjamin, The Well-Or- 
dered Family, Boston, 1712. 

Walter, Thomas, The Grounds and Rules 
of Musick Explained, Boston, 1721. Uh 
The Sweet Psalmist of Israel, Boston, 


1722. 

Whitman, Samuel, Practical Godliness 
the Way to Prosperity, New London, 
1714. | 

Wise, John, A Word of Comfort to a 
Melancholy Country, Boston, 1721. (A plea 
for paper money and “inflation” against 
the “‘sound money” merchants of Bos- 
ton.) 


B. SECONDARY WoRKsS 


The customs and behavior of Puritans have long been a subject for discussion and 
comment, all too often misleadingly presented. 


1. Almanacs 


The most widely distributed item to 
be issued from the colonial press, the 
almanac today is also the scarcest; it took 
the place of a newspaper during the 
seventeenth century, and like a news- 
paper was discarded when out of date. 
See Section IX B for a chronological 
checklist dealing with “Popular Science 
in the Almanacs.” 


Bates, Albert C., ““Check List of Con- 
necticut Almanacs, 1709-1850, with In- 
troduction and Notes,’ Proceedings of the 
American Antiquarian Society, N.s. XXIV 
(1914), 93-215. 

Briggs, Samuel, The Essays, Humor, and 
Poems of Nathaniel Ames, Father and Son. . . 
from their Almanacks, 1726-1775, Cleveland, 
1891. 
“The Origin and Development of 
the Almanack,’”? Western Reserve and 
Northern Ohio Historical Society, Tract 
No. 69 (1887), pp. 435-477: 

Brigham, Clarence S., ““An Account of 
American Almanacs and their Value for 
Historical Study,” Proceedings of the Ameri- 
can Antiquarian Society, N.S. XX XV (1925), 
1-25, 194-209. 

Chapin, Howard M., “Check List of 
Rhode Island Almanacs, 1643-1850, 


with Introduction and Notes,” Proceed- 
ings of the American Antiquarian Society, N.s. 
XXV (1915), 19-54. 

Kittredge, George L., The Old Farmer 
and his Almanack, Boston, 1904. 

Littlefield, George E., ““Notes on the 
Calendar and the Almanac,” Proceedings 
of the American Antiquarian Society, N.s. 
XXIV (1914), 11-64. 

Lovely, Napoleon W., “‘Notes on New 
England Almanacs,” New England Quar- 
terly, VIII (1935), 264-277. 

Morrison, Hugh A., Preliminary Check 
List of American Almanacs, 1639-1800, 
Washington, 1907. 

Nichols, Charles L., ‘“‘Checklist of 

Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont 
Almanacs,” Proceedings of the American 
Antiquarian Society, N.s. XX XVIII (1928), 
63-163. 
“Notes on the Almanacs of Massa- 
chusetts,”’ Proceedings of the American Anti- 
quarian Society, N.S. XXII (1912), 15- 
134. 

Perry, Amos, “(New England Alma- 
nacs, with Special Mention of Those 
Published in Rhode Island,” Narragansett 
Historical Register, 1V (1885), 27-39. 

Stickney, Matthew A., ‘“‘Almanacs and 
their Authors,’ Essex Institute Historical 
Collections, VIII (1866), 28-32, 75, 101- 


Bibliographies 
104, 158-164, 193-205; XIV (1877), 
81-93, 212-223, 242-248. 


2. Daily Life and Behavior 


In addition to the items listed below, 
the student should consult town histories 
and family genealogies. 


Adams, Charles F., ‘““SSome Phases of 
Sexual Morality and Church Discipline in 
Colonial New England,” Proceedings of 
the Massachusetts Historical Society, XXVI 
(1891), 477-516. (For a counter-state- 
ment, see H. B. Parker, New England 
Quarterly, III (1930), 133-135.) 

Adams, James T., Provincial Society, 
1690-1763, New York, 1927. (Volume IIT 
of A History of American Life, ed. Arthur 
M. Schlesinger and Dixon R. Fox. A 
substantial description of general culture 
and social and economic life in the colo- 
nies. The “‘Critical Essay on Authorities,” 
Pp. 324-356, is of great value.) 

Andrews, Charles McL., Colonial Folk- 
ways: A Chronicle of American Life in the 
Reign of the Georges, New Haven, 1919. 
(The Chronicle of America, Vol. TX. Ex- 
cellent, readable survey.) 

Bardsley, Charles W., Curiosities of Puri- 
tan Nomenclature, London, 1880. 

Benton, Josiah H., Warning out in New 
England, 1656-1817, Boston, 1911. (A his- 
tory of poor-relief.) 

Bliss, William R., Szde Glimpses from the 
Colonial Meeting-House, Boston, 1894. 
(Chatty and informative.) 

Buffinton, Arthur H., “Sir Thomas 
Temple in Boston, a Case of Benevolent 
Assimilation,” Publications of the Coloniai 
Society of Massachusetts, XXVII (1932), 
308-319. 

Calhoun, Arthur W., A Social History of 
the American Family from Colonial Times to 
the Present, Cleveland, 1917-1919, 3 vols. 
(The first seven chapters of Vol. I, ““Co- 
lonial Period,” relate to New England. 
Stimulating.) 

Child, Frank S., The Colonial Parson of 
New England, New York, 1896. 

Crawford, Mary C., In the Days of the 
Pilgrim Fathers, Boston, 1920. 

Little Pilgrimages among Old New 
England Inns, Boston, 1907. 

The Romance of Old New England 
Churches, Boston, 1904. 


809 


Social Life in Old New England, Bos- 
ton, 1914. 

Cutler, U. Waldo, “‘Tools, Trades and 
an Honest Living in Early New England,” 
Publications of the Worcester Historical So- 
ciety, N.S. I (1935), 479-486. 

Davis, Andrew McF., ‘“‘Hints of Con- 
temporary Life in the Writings of Thomas 
Shepard,”’ Publications of the Colonial So- 
ciety of Massachusetts, XII (1911), 136- 
163. 


“John Harvard’s Life in Amer- 
ica,” Publications of the Colonial Society of 
Massachusetts, XII (1911), 4-45. (Life and 
manners in the first decades.) 

Day, Clive H., “‘Capitalistic Tenden- 
cies in the Puritan Colonies,’’ Annual Re- 
port of the American Historical Association, 
Washington, 1925, pp. 225-235. 

Dexter, Elizabeth A., Colonial Women of 
Affairs: Women in Business and the Professions 
in America before 1776, 2nd ed., Boston, 
1931. 

Dodge, Daniel K., ‘Puritan Names,” 
New England Quarterly, I (1928), 467-475. 

Dow, George F., Domestic Life in New 
England in the Seventeenth Century, Topsfield, 
Mass., 1925. 

Every Day Life in the Massachusetts 
Bay Colony, Boston, 1935. 

Drake, Samuel A., A Book of New Eng- 
land Legends and Folk Lore, Boston, 1884. 
Old Boston Taverns and Tavern 
Clubs, Boston, 1917. 

Earle, Alice M., Child Life in Colonial 
Days, 2nd ed., New York, 1927. 

Colonial Dames and Good Wives, 
New York, 1895. 

Costume of Colonial Times, New 
York, 1894. 

Customs and Fashions in Old New 
England, New York, 1894. 

Home Life in Colonial Days, New 
York, 1808. 

The Sabbath in Puritan New Eng- 
land, New York, 1891. 

Stage-Coach and Tavern Days, New 
York, 1900. 

Two Centuries of Costume in Amer- 
ica, New York, 1903. 

Eggleston, Edward, The Beginners of a 
Nation, New York, 1806. 

The Transit of Civilization from 
England to America, New York, 1901. 
Englishmen at Rest and Play, 1558-1714, 


810 


by members of Wadham College, Ox- 
ford, 1931. (Important for background 
of New England society.) 

Felt, Joseph B., Tie Customs of New Eng- 
land, Boston, 1853. 

Ferguson, J. DeLancey, ““The Roots of 
American Humor,” American Scholar, 1V 
(1935), 41-48. 

Field, Edward, The Colonial Tavern: A 
Glimpse of New England Town Life in the 
Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries, Provi- 
dence, 1897. 

Fisher, Sydney G., Men, Women and 
Manners in Colonial Times, Philadelphia, 
1898, 2 vols. 

Fleming, Sandford, Children & Puritan- 
ism: The Place of Children in the Life and 
Thought of the New England Churches, 1620- 
1847, New Haven, 1933. 

Forbes, Esther, Paradise, New York, 
1937. (A brilliant novel of seventeenth- 
century Boston and vicinity. The manners 
of the Bay Colony settlers, especially of 
those living in the countryside, are por- 
trayed with authentic vigor.) 

Ford, Edwin H., ‘‘Colonial Pamphle- 
teers,” Journalism Quarterly, XIII (1936), 
24-36. 

Ford, Worthington C., “Samuel Sew- 
all and Nicholas Noyes on Wigs,” Publi- 
cations of the Colonial Society of Massachusetts, 
XX (1920), 109-128. 

Gabriel, Ralph H., ed., The Pageant of 
America, New Haven, 1925-1929, 15 vols. 
(A useful collection of social and cultural 
remains.) 

Gretton, Richard H., The English Mid- 
dle Class, London, 1917. (Important back- 
grounds.) 

Griswold, A. Whitney, ‘“Three Puritans 
on Prosperity,” New England Quarterly, 
VII (1934), 475-493- 

Hanscom, Elizabeth D., ed., The Heart 
of the Puritan; Selections from Letters and 
Journals, New York, 1917. 

Haynes, Henry W., ‘‘Cotton Mather 
and His Slaves,”’ Proceedings of the Ameri- 
can Antiquarian Society, N.s. V1 (1889- 
1890), 191-195. 

Holliday, Carl, Woman’s Life in Colonial 
Days, Boston, 1922. 

The Wit and Humor of Colonial 
Days (1607-1800), Philadelphia, 1912. 

Hooker, Roland M., The Colonial Trade 

of Connecticut, Publications of the Tercentenary 


The Puritans 


Commission of the State of Connecticut, New . 
Haven, 1936. 

Jameson, John F., ed., Privateering and 
Piracy in the Colonial Period; Illustrative 
Documents, New York, 1923. 

Jones, Matt B., “Some Bibliographical 

Notes on Cotton Mather’s ‘The Accom- 
plished Singer,’ ’’ Publications of the Co- 
lonial Society of Massachusetts, XXVIII . 
(1935), 186-193. 
“Bibliographical Notes on Thomas 
Walter’s ‘Grounds and Rules of Musick 
Explained,’ ”’ Proceedings of the American 
Antiquarian Society, N.S. XLII (1932), 
235-246. 

Kelly, J. Frederick, ‘“‘Raising Connecti- 
cut Meeting-Houses,” Old-Time New Eng- 
land, XX VII (1936), 3-9. 

Kelso, Robert W., The History of Public 
Poor Relief in Massachusetts, 1620-1920, 
Boston, 1922. 

Kouwenhoven, John A., “‘SSome Un- 
familiar Aspects of Singing in New Eng- 
land, 1620-1810,” New England Quarterly, 
VI (1933), 567-588. 

Langdon, William Chauncy, Everyday 
Things in American Life, 1607-1776, New 
York, 1937. 

Lawrence, Henry W., The Not-Quite 
Puritans, Boston, 1928. (A labored striv- 
ing to present the peccadilloes of Puri- 
tans with humor.) 

“Puritan Scandals—Courtship, 
Marriage and Divorce Three Centuries 
Ago,” Yankee, III (1937), 7-9, 29. 

Lawrence, Robert M., New England 
Colonial Life, Cambridge, 1927. 

Love, William de L., The Fast and 
Thanksgiving Days of New England, Boston, 
1895. 

McClusker, Honor, “Scholars, Rogues, 
and Puritans,’ More Books, XIII (1938), 
1-8. 

Muzzey, David S., “The Heritage of 
the Puritans,” Annual Report of the Amer- 
ican Historical Association, 1925, pp. 239- 
24g. (Stresses the point that they edu- 
cated for responsibility.) 

Myers, Gustavus, Ye Olden Blue Laws, 
New York, 1921. 

Nordell, Philip G., ‘Cotton Mather in 
Love,” Harper’s Magazine, CLIII (1926), 
550-572. 

Parkes, Henry B., “Morals and Law 
Enforcement in Colonial New England,” 


Bibliographies 


New England Quarterly, V (1932), 431- 

2. 

i ‘‘New England in the Seventeen- 
Thirties,” New England Quarterly, III 
(1930), 397-419. (A picture of affairs, 
books, reading, and trends.) 

“Sexual Morals and the Great 
Awakening,” New England Quarterly, ITI 
(1930), 133-135. 

Powell, Chilton L., ‘“Marriage in Early 
New England,” New England Quarterly, I 
(1928), 323-334. 

Schafer, Joseph, The Social History of 
American Agriculture, New York, 1936. 

Scholes, Percy A., The Puritans and 
Music in England and New England, Lon- 
don, 1934. (An authoritative work, even 
though prone to special pleading.) 
“The Truth about the New Eng- 
land Puritans and Music,” Musical Quar- 
terly, XIX (1933), 1-17. 

Sonneck, Oscar G., Early Concert Life in 
America, 1731-1800, Leipzig, 1907. 

Stiles, Henry R., Bundling; its Origin, 
Progress and Decline in America, Albany, 
1871; Harrisburg, Pa., 1928. 


811 


Thwing, Leroy L., “Lighting in Early 
Colonial Massachusetts,” New England 
Quarterly, XI (1938), 166-170. 

Walcott, Robert R., “‘Husbandry in 
Colonial New England,” New England 
Quarterly, TX (1936), 218-252. 

Weeden, William B., Early Rhode Island, 
A Social History of the People, New York, 
IQIO. 


‘‘Ideal Newport in the 18th Cen- 
tury,” Proceedings of the American Anti- 
quarian Society, N.s. XVIII (1906), 106— 
eA 

Weld, Ralph F., Slavery in Connecticut, 
Hartford, 1935. 

Wendell, Barrett, “Some Neglected 
Characteristics of the New England 
Puritans,’ Annual Report of the Amer- 
ican Historical Association, 1891, pp. 245- 
253. 

Wertenbaker, Thomas J., The First 
Americans, 1607-1690, New York, 1927. 
Volume II of A History of American 
Life. 

Wharton, Anne H., Colonial Days and 
Dames, Philadelphia, 1895. 


V. BIOGRAPHY 


Only a few “‘Lives” were published as such during the first century of the settle- 
ments. Eventually, when the funeral sermons, historical essays, diaries, journals, and 
the large collections of personal papers (usually in manuscript) have been consulted, 
the amount of biographical material covering the period will prove enormous. This 
bibliography is confined to printed sources only. Such libraries as those of the New 
England Historical Genealogical Society, Congregational Library, and Massachusetts 
Historical Society in Boston; as well as those of Harvard and Yale Universities, and of 
the American Antiquarian Society in Worcester, are especially rich in manuscript 
material. 

A. PuriTAN BIOGRAPHIES 


Certain items, often biographical in nature, are more properly classified elsewhere. 
Such historical narratives, for instance, as John Williams’s The Redeemed Captive, Cotton 
Mather’s Magnalia, John Winthrop’s Journal, will be found in section I A. See also 
section IV A. 


Barnard, John, Ashton’s Memorial. An 
History of the Strange Adventures, and Signal 


glorum, Boston, 1695. (Life of John Daven- 
port.) 


Deliverances, of Mr. Philip Ashton, Boston, 
1725. 

Colman, Benjamin, Reliquiae Turellae, et 
Lachrymae Paternae, Boston, 1735; London, 
1741. 

The Prophei’s Death Lamented and 
Improved, Boston, 1723. (Funeral sermon 
on Increase Mather.) 

Mather, Cotton, Chrysostomus Nov-An- 


Ecclesiastes, Boston, 1697. (Life of 
Jonathan Mitchell.) 

Johannes in Eremo. Memoirs, Re- 
lating to The Lives, Of... Fohn Cotton, 
. . » John Norton, Boston, 1695. 

The Life of Mr. Thomas Dudley, ed. 
Charles Deane, Cambridge, 1870. 
Memoria Wilsonia, Boston, 1695. 
(Life of John Wilson.) 


812 


Observanda, Boston, 1695. (Life of 
Queen Mary.) 

Parentator, Boston, 1724. (Life of 
Increase Mather.) 

Pietas in Patriam, Boston, 1697. 
(Life of Sir William Phips.) 

Piscator Evangelicus. Or, The Life of 
Mr. Thomas Hooker, Boston, 1695. 

The Triumphs of the Reformed Re- 
ligion, in America, Boston, 1691. Subse- 
quently published as The Life and Death 
Of The Renown’d Mr. John Eliot, London, 
1691, 1694, 1820. 

Mather, Increase, The Life and Death Of 
That Reverend Man of God, Mr. Richard 
Mather, Cambridge, 1670; reprinted in 
Collections of the Dorchester Antiquarian and 
Historical Society, No. 3, Boston, 1850. 


The Puritans 


Mather, Samuel, The Life of . . . Cotton 
Mather, Boston, 1729. 

Mather, Samuel (of Witney), Memoirs 
of the Life of the Late Reverend Increase 
Mather, London, 1725. 

Norton, John, Abel being dead yet speak- 
eth, Cambridge, 1657; London, 1658; 
ed. E. Pond, 1842. (Life of John Cotton; 
see Dana K. Merrill, in part D of this | 
section.) 

Turell, Ebenezer, The Life and Char- 

acter of the Reverend Benjamin Colman, Bos- 
ton, 1749. 
Memoirs of the Life and Death Of 
the Pious and Ingenious Mrs. Fane Turell, 
Boston, 1735; London, 1741. (Jane 
Turell was a daughter of Benjamin Col- 
man.) 


B. Diaries, JOURNALS, AND COLLECTIONS OF PERSONAL PAPERS 


Thousands of Puritans kept diaries, and many also ‘preserved their correspond- 
ence and papers. For a bibliography. of diaries, see Harriette M. Forbes, New England 


Diaries, 1602-1800, ‘Topsfield, Mass., 1923. 


Aspinwall Papers, The, Collections of the 
Massachusetts Historical Society, fourth se- 
ries, Vols. IX and X (1871). 

Barnard, John, ‘“‘Autobiography,”’ Col- 
lections of the Massachusetts Historical Soctety, 
third series, V (1836), 177-243. 
*“Memoranda Quotidiana, 1715- 
1735, Congregational Quarterly, IV (1862), 
376 ff. 

Belcher Papers, The, Collections of the 
Massachusetis Historical Society, sixth series, 
Vols. VI and VII (1893-1894). 

Burr, Esther, “‘Journal,”’ ed. Josephine 
Fisher, New England Quarterly, III (1930), 
297-315. 

Bradford, William, “‘Letter Book,”’ Col- 
lections of the Massachusetts Historical So- 
ciety, first series, III (1794), 27-76. 

Calder, Isabel M., ed., Letters of Fohn 
Davenport, Puritan Divine, New Haven, 
1937: 

Dow, George F., ed., The Holyoke 
Diaries, 1709-1856, Salem, Mass., 1911. 

Green, Joseph, “Diary,” (together 
with a biographical sketch of Green by 
Samuel P. Fowler), Essex Institute Histor- 
ical Collections, VIII (1868), 91-96, 105- 
174, 215-224; X (1870), pt. I, 73-104; 
XXXVI (1900), 325-330. 

Hinckley Papers, The, Collections of 


the Massachusetts Historical Society, fourth 
series, Vol. V (1861). 

Homes, William, “Diary of Rev. Wil- 
liam Homes of Chilmark, Martha’s Vine- 
yard, 1689-1746,” New England Historical 
and Genealogical Register, XLVIII (1894), 
446-453; XLIX (1895), 413-416; L 
(1896), 155-166. 

Hull, John, “The Diaries of John 
Hull,” Transactions and Collections of the 
American Antiquarian Society, III (1857), 
109-316. 

Jones, Mait B., “Thomas Maule, 
the Salem Quaker, and Free Speech 
in Massachusetts Bay,” Essex Institute 
Historical Collections, LXXII (1936), 
I-42. 

Knight, Sarah Kemble, The Journals of 
Madam Knight, and Rev. Mr. Buckingham, 
New York, 1825; The Journal of Madam 
Knight, ed. George P. Winship, Boston, — 
1920. 

Lynde, Benjamin, The Diaries of Ben- 
jamin Lynde and Benjamin Lynde, Fr., [1690- 
1780], Boston, 1880. 

Mather, Cotton, Diary of Cotton Mather, 
[1681-1724], Collections of the Massachusetts 
Historical Society, seventh series, Vols. VII 
and VIII (1911, 1912). 

Mather, Increase, Diary, with Intro- 


Bibliographies 


duction by Samuel A. Green, Cambridge, 
1900. (Brief extracts.) 

Mather, Richard, Journal, Collections of 
the Dorchester Antiquarian and Historical So- 
ciety, No. 3 (1850). 

Mather Papers, The, Collections of the 
Massachusetts Historical Society, fourth 
series, Vol. VIII (1868). 

[Sewall, Joseph], “Sins and Mercies of 
a Harvard Student,’ More Books, XI 
(1936), 277-285. (Sewall’s diary ca. 1707.) 

Sewall, Samuel, Diary of Samuel Sewall, 
1674-1729, Collections of the Massachusetts 
Historical Society, fifth series, Vols. V— 
VII (1878-1882). Selections from the 
Diary in convenient form in Samuel Se- 
wall’s Diary, ed. Mark Van Doren, New 
York, 1927. 

Letter-Book of Samuel Sewall, Col- 
lections of the Massachusetts Historical Society, 
sixth series, Vols. I-II (1886-1888). 

Shepard, Thomas, “The Autobiog- 
raphy of Thomas Shepard,” Publications 
of the Colonial Society of Massachusetts, 
XXVITI (1932), 345-400. (Prefaced by a 
complete bibliography.) 


813 


Stearns, Raymond P., ed., ‘‘Letters and 
Documents by or Relating to Hugh 
Peter,” Essex Institute Historical Collections, 
LXXI (1935), 303-318; LXXII (1936), 
43-72, 117-134, 208-232, 303-349; 
LXXIII (1937), 130-157. 

Trumbull Papers, The, Collections of the 
Massachusetts Historical Society, fifth series, 
Vols. IX and X (1885, 1888); seventh 
series, Vols. II and III (1902). 

Williams, Roger, Letters of Roger Wil- 
liams, 1632-1682, ed. John R. Bartlett, 
Providence, 1874. 

Letters and Papers of Roger Williams, 
1629-1682, Boston, 1924. 

Winthrop Papers, The, Collections of 
the Massachusetts Historical Society, fourth 
series, Vols. VI and VII (1863, 1865); 
fifth series, Vols. and VIII (1871, 1882); 
sixth series, Vols. III and V (1889, 1892). 
The “‘Papers” are now being re-edited, 
with copious notes, by the Society: Vol. I, 
1929; Vol. II, 1931. 

“‘Winthrop-Davenport Papers,” Bulle- 
tin of the New York Public Library, III 


(1899), 393-408. 


C. - COLLECTIONS 


First of all, the student should consult the Dictionary of American Biography (containing 
bibliographies), and the Dictionary of National Biography; secondly, such repositories 
of genealogical information as James Savage, Genealogical Dictionary of the First Settlers 
of New England, Boston, 1860-1862, 4 vols., or the pages of The New England Historical 
and Genealogical Register, Boston, 1847—current. In addition the following are useful: 


Brook, Benjamin, Lives of the Puritans, 
London, 1813, 3 vols. 

Calamy, Edmund, Calamy Revised, ed. 
A. G. Matthews, Oxford, 1934. Revision 
of Calamy’s Account of the Ministers and 
Others Ejected and Silenced, 1660-1662. (Bi- 
ographies of the English Puritans, some 
of them New England figures.) 

Chauncy, Charles, “A Sketch of Emi- 
nent Men in New England,” Collections of 
the Massachusetts Historical Society, first 
series, X (1809), 154-165. (A letter to 
Ezra Stiles, written in 1768, giving 
sketches of twenty-two Puritan divines.) 

Dexter, Franklin B., Biographical Sketches 
of the Graduates of Yale College with Annals of 
the College History, New York, 1885-1912, 
6 vols. 

Foster, Joseph, Alumni Oxonienses, 1500- 
1714, Oxford, 1891-1892, 4 vols. 


Lives of the Chief Fathers of New England, 
Boston, 1846-1849, 6 vols. (Cotton, Wil- 
son, Norton, Davenport, Eliot, Shepard, 


| I. Mather, Hooker.) 


Sibley, John L., Biographical Sketches of 
Graduates of Harvard University in Cam- 
bridge, Massachusetts, Cambridge, 1873- 
1885, 3 vols. (Includes Harvard classes, 
1642-1689; Vol. IV, ed. Clifford K. 
Shipton, Cambridge, 1933, includes 
alumni down to 1700; Vol. V, ed. Ship- 
ton, Boston, 1937, includes alumni 
through 1712.) 

Sprague, William B., Annals of the Ameri- 
can Pulpit, New York, 1857-1869, 9 vols. 

Venn, John, and J. A. Venn, Alumni 
Cantabrigienses, Cambridge, Eng., 1922- 
1927, 4 vols. 

Walker, Williston, Ten New England 
Leaders, New York, 1901. (Bradford, Cot- 


814 


ton, R. Mather, Eliot, I. Mather, Ed- 
wards, Chauncy.) 

Wendell, Barrett, Stelligeri, and Other 
Essays Concerning America, New York, 1893. 


The Puritans 


Wood, Anthony, Athenae Oxonienses, ed. 
Philip Bliss, 1813-1820, 4 vols. (The best 
edition.) | 


D. SECONDARY Works 


This list is far from complete. The student should consult the bibliography ap- 
pended to the articles in Dictionary of American Biography. Further biographical material — 
will be found listed throughout the text of this book in the brief notices which introduce ~ 


the selections. 


Allen, Alexander V. G., Jonathan Ed- 
wards, Boston, 1889. (An able analysis of 
Edwards’ position as a theologian.) 

Augur, Helen, An American Jezebel: The 
Life of Anne Hutchinson, New York, 1930. 
(Novelized invective.) 

Bingham, Hiram, “Elihu Yale, Gov- 
ernor, Collector and Benefactor,” Pro- 
ceedings of the American Antiquarian Society, 
XLVII (1937), 93-144. 

Boas, Ralph P., and Louise Boas, Cotton 
Mather: Keeper of the Puritan Conscience, 
New York, 1928. (Somewhat journalistic.) 

Bradford, Alden,. Memoir of the Life and 
Writings of Rev. Jonathan Mayhew, Boston, 
1838. 

Burgess, Walter H., John Robinson, 
Pastor of the Pilgrim Fathers, London, 1920. 

Campbell, Helen S., Anne Bradstreet and 
Her Time, Boston, 1891. 

Carpenter, Edmund J., Roger Williams; 
A Study of the Life, Times and Character of a 
Political Pioneer, New York, 1909. 

Chamberlain, Nathan H., Samuel Sew- 
all and the World He Lived In, Boston, 
1897. 

Clarke, Hermann F., “John Hull— 
Colonial Merchant, 1624-1683,” Proceed- 
ings of the American Antiquarian Society, 
XLVI (1936), 197-218. 

“John Hull: Mintmaster,” New 
England Quarterly, X (1937), 668-684. 

Curtis, Edith, Anne Hutchinson: A Bi- 
ography, Cambridge, 1930. 

Dean, John W., A Memoir of the Rev. 
Nathaniel Ward, Albany, 1868. 

Memoir of Rev. Michael Wiggles- 
worth, Albany, 1871. 

Earle, Alice M., Margaret Winthrop, 
New York, 1895. 

Easton, Emily, Roger Williams, Prophet 
and Pioneer, New York, 1930. (A popular 
work, stressing the early and little-known 
years.) 


Eaton, Arthur W. H., The Famous 
Mather Byles, Boston, 1914. 

Ernst, James E., Roger Williams: New 
England Firebrand, New York, 1932. (Over- 
enthusiastic and inaccurate.) 

—— “Roger Williams and the English 

Revolution,”’ Collections of the Rhode Island 
Historical Society, XXIV (1931), 1-58, 
118-128. 
“New Light on Rowe Williams’ 
Life in England,” Collections of the Rhode 
Island Historical Society, XXII (1929), 97- 
103. 

Foote, Henry W., “‘George Phillips, 
First Minister of Watertown,” Proceed- 
ings of the Massachusetts Historical Society, 
LXIII (1931), 193-227. 

Gookin, Frederick W., Daniel Gookin, 
1612-1687, Chicago, 1912. 

Gorton, Adelos, The Life and Times of 
Samuel Gorton, Philadelphia, 1907. 

Gould, Elizabeth P., Ezekiel Cheever, 
Schoolmaster, Boston, 1904. 

Green, Samuel A., Benjamin Tompson, 
Boston, 1895. 

Hare, Lloyd C. M., Thomas Mayhew, 
Patriarch to the Indians, 1593-1682, New 
York, 1932. 

Harkness, Reuben E. E., 
liams—Prophet of Tomorrow,” 


“Roger Wil- 
Journal 


of Religion, XV (1935), 400-425. 


Holmes, Thomas J., ““Samuel Mather 
of Witney, 1674-1733,’ Publications of the 
Colonial Society of Massachusetts, XXVI 
(1927), 312-322. 

Hornberger, Theodore, “‘Samuel Lee 
(1625-1691), A Clerical Channel for the 
Flow of New Ideas to Seventeenth-Cen- 
tury New England,’ Osiris, I (1936), 
341-355: 

Hosmer, James K., The Life of Voie 
Sir Henry Vane, Boston: 1888. 

Kimball, Everett, The Public Life of 
Joseph Dudley, New York, 1911. 


Bibliographies 


Kittredge, George L., Doctor Robert 
Child the Remonstrant, Cambridge, 1919. 
(Reprinted from Publications of the Colonial 
Society of Massachusetts, X XI (1920), 1-146. 

Marvin, Abijah P., The Life and Times 
of Cotton Mather, Boston, 1892. 

Mason, Louis B., The Life and Times of 
Major John Mason of Connecticut: 1600- 
1672, New York, 1935. 

- Matthews, Albert, ““Samuel Mather,” 
Publications of the Colonial Society of Massa- 
chusetts, XVIII (1917), 206-228. 

Mayo, Lawrence S., John Endecott, Cam- 
bridge, 1936. 

Merrill, Dana K., ““The First American 
Biography,” New England Quarterly, XI 
(1938), 152-154. (Norton’s Life of Cot- 
ton.) 

Mood, Fulmer, “‘Notes on John Jos- 
selyn, Gent.,”’ Publications of the Colonial 
Society of Massachusetts, XXVIII (1935), 
24-36. 

Morgan, Edmund S., “The Case 
Against Anne Hutchinson,” New England 
Quarterly, X (1937), 635-649. 

Morison, Samuel E., “William Pyn- 
chon, The Founder of Springfield,’ Pro- 
ceedings of the Massachusetts Historical Society, 
LXIV (1932), 67-107. 

Murdock, Kenneth B., Increase Mather, 
the Foremost American Puritan, Cambridge, 
1925. (A definitive biography and an 
authoritative study of the period.) 

Porter, Kenneth W., ““Samuel Gorton, 
New England Firebrand,” New England 


Quarterly, VII (1934), 405-444. 


815 


Powicke, Frederick J., John Robinson, 
London, 1920. 

Rose-Troupe, Frances, John White, the 
Patriarch of Dorchester and the Founder of 
Massachusetts, 1575-1648, New York, 1930. 
(Detailed but injudicious.) 

Rugg, Winifred K., Unafraid: A Life of 
Anne Hutchinson, Boston, 1930. (Somewhat 
sentimentalized, but careful and fair- 
minded.) 

Stearns, Raymond P., “Hugh Peter 
and his Biographers,”’ Proceedings of the 
Bostonian Society (1935), 27-50. 

Straus, Oscar S., Roger Williams: The 
Pioneer of Religious Liberty, New York, 
1894. 

Titus, Anson, “Madam Sarah Knight, 
Her Diary and Her Times,’ JBos- 
tonian Society Publications, TX (1912), 99- 
126. 

Tuttle, Charles W., Captain John Mason, 
Boston, 1887. 

Walker, George L., Thomas Hooker, 
New York, 1891. 

Wendell, Barrett, Cotton Mather, the 
Puritan Priest, New York, 1891. 

Wiener, Frederick B., ““Roger Williams’ 
Contribution to Modern Thought,” Col- 
lections of the Rhode Island Historical Society, 
XXVIII (1935), 1-20. 

Willcock, John, Life of Sir Henry Vane 
the Younger, London, 1913. 

Winthrop, Robert C., Life and Letters of 
John Winthrop, Boston, 1864-1867, 2 vols. 
(Contains many important original pa- 


pers.) 


VI. LITERARY THEORY 


Literature as a separate and self-sufficient art did not exist for Puritans. The art 
of writing, either in prose or verse, was first and foremost a means to the end of ex- 
pressing some truth, theological, historical, or philosophical. Yet Puritans wrote 
~ voluminously, and no study of their ideology would be complete without a careful 
presentation of such theory as they expressed, or some attempt at an evaluation of 
their artistry in prose and verse. 


A. PRIMARY SOURCES 


Puritans almost never discussed literature as belles lettres, and very seldom devoted 
a whole discussion to theories of rhetoric and composition. Consequently, a list of 
passages in which the Puritan standards of composition, vocabulary, and style are 
proclaimed almost always will be found as incidental remarks in passing, or in 
prefaces of commendation. The following list cannot have exhausted all such passages, 
but it gives at least a representative selection. No list of secondary works has been 
added to this section, since so few studies of the literary theories of Puritans have been 
made. All appropriate items have been assembled in Section VII B, under the general 
heading: “Puritan Literature—Secondary Works.” 


816 


Adams, Eliphalet, A Funeral Discourse, 
New London, 1724, Sig. K3 verso. 
Preface to Nehemiah Hobart, The 
Absence of the Comforter Described and La- 
mented, New London, 1717. 

Adams, John, Poems on Several Occa- 
sions, Boston, 1745, ‘““The Publisher to 
the Reader.” 

Allen, James, New-Englands choicest 
Blessing, Boston, 1679, ‘““To the Reader.” 
Serious Advice to delivered Ones from 
Sickness, Boston, 1679, ‘““To the Reader.” 

Allen, Thomas, Preface to John Cotton, 
An Exposition upon . . . Revelation, London, 
1656. 

Ames, William, The Marrow of Sacred 
Divinity, London, 1643, Sig. A4 verso; 
pp- 157-162. 

Appleton, Nathaniel, The Great Apostle 
Paul exhibited, and recommended as a Pattern 
of true Gospel Preaching, Boston, 1751, 
pp. 26-30. 

Faithful Ministers of Christ, Boston, 
1743; P- 25. 
Superior Skill and Wisdom necessary 
for Winning Souls, Boston, 1737, pp. 26, 32. 
Barnard, John, Elijah’s Mantle, Boston, 
1724, p. 36. 
Sermons on Several Subjects, London, 
1727, Dedication; and pp. 11, 38. 

[Bay Psalm Book,| The Whole Book of 
Psalmes, Cambridge, 1640, preface. 

Belcher, Jonathan, Manuscript com- 
monplace book, Harvard College Library, 
ca. 1725-1728. 

Bradford, William, “‘“OfPlimmoth Plan- 
tation,” Manuscript in Massachusetts 
State Library; Facsimile, London, 1896, 
p- 19. 

Brocklesby, Richard [?], Private Vertue 
and Public Spirit display'd. In a Succinct 
Essay on the Character of Captain Thomas 
Coram, Boston, 1751, p. 15. (Reprinted in 
Proceedings of the Massachusetts Historical 
Society, LVI (1922), 15. 

Bulkley, John, Preface to Roger Wol- 
cott, Poetical Meditations, New London, 
1725. 

Byles, Mather, A Discourse on the Present 
Vileness of the Body, Boston, 1732, pref- 
ace. 


An essay on style in The American 
Magazine and Historical Chronicle, Boston, 
January, 1745, pp. 1-4. (Signed “L,” and 
identified as Byles’s by Lyon N. Richard- 


The Puritans 


son, A History of Early American Magazines, 
1741-1789, p. 54 note.) 

Letter to Alexander Pope, Octo- 
ber 7, 1727. Manuscript in New England 
Historical Genealogical Society, Boston. 
(Printed in Arthur W. H. Eaton, The 
Famous Mather Byles, Boston, 1914, p. 233.) 

Chappell, William, Methodus Concio- 
nandi, London, 1648; translated as The 
Preacher, or The Art and Method of Preach- 
ing, London, 1656. (One of the best 
manuals of sermon style and practice.) 

Chauncy, Charles (1592-1672), Gods 
Mercy, Cambridge, 1655, p. 37. 

Chauncy, Charles (1705-1787), Minis- 
ters cautioned against the Occasions of Con- 
tempt, Boston, 1744, pp. 29, 35. 

A Collection of Poems. By Several Hands, 
Boston, 1744. (Incidental critical phrases 
throughout, in poems by Mather Byles, 
John Adams, John Perkins, Matthew 
Adams, and Jonathan Belcher.) 

Colman, Benjamin, Preface to Josiah 
Smith, A Discourse, Boston, 1726. 

The Government & Improvement of 
Mirth, Boston, 1707, p. 45. 
Practical Discourses, London, 1707, 


P- 57: 


The Prophet's Death Lamented, 
Boston, 1723, p. 32 
Reliquiae Turellae, London, 1741, 


. 153. 

Cooke, William, The great Duty of 
Ministers, Boston, 1742, p. 7. 

Cotton, John, A brief exposition with prac- 
tical observations upon the whole book of Canti- 
cles, London, 1655, p. 92. 

A Brief Exposition Of the whole Book 
of Canticles, London, 1642, pp. 7-9, 112. 
A Briefe Exposition with Practicall 
Observations upon the Whole Book of Ecclesi- 
astes, London, 1654, pp. 265-266, 269, 
272. 

Douglass, William, A Summary, Histori- 
cal and Political, Of the first Planting, 
Boston, 1749-1752, 2 vols. Vol. I, p. 13 
Vol. II, title-page and p. 1. 

Edwards, Jonathan, Rules on the cover 
of ‘‘Notes on Natural Science,” ca. 1719. 
(Manuscript in Yale University Library; 
see C. H. Faust and T. H. Johnson, Fona- 
than Edwards, Representative Selections, New 
York, 1935. 

Five Discourses, Boston, 1738, pref- 


ace. 


Bibliographies 


An Humble Inquiry, Boston, 1749, 
conclusion. 

The Life of President Edwards, by 
Sereno E. Dwight, New York, 1829, 
p- 601. 

Eliot, Andrew, A burning and shining 
Light, Boston, 1750, p. 31. 

Eliot, Jared, Essays upon Field-Hus- 
bandry, New York, 1748, preface. 

Fitch, James, Peace The End of the Per- 
fect and Upright, Cambridge, 1672, pref- 
ace. 

Foxcroft, Thomas, The day of a godly 
Man’s Death, Boston, 1722, preface. 

A Practical Discourse, Boston, 
1718, pp. 24-40. (One of the best discus- 
sions of style, delivered in a sermon at 
his own ordination by a minister who 
throughout his career was preoccupied 
with the problem of style and form.) 

Some seasonable Thoughts on Evan- 
gelic Preaching, Boston, 1740, pp. 4, 5. 

Preface to Jonathan Dickinson, 
The True Scripiure-Doctrine, Boston, 1741. 

Gookin, Daniel, Historical Collections of 
the Indians in New-England, ca. 1675, 
first printed in Collections of the Massa- 
chusetts Historical Society, first series, I 
(1792), Pp. 143. 

Hobby, William, An Inquiry, Boston, 
1745, PP- 19, 24. 

Hooker, Thomas, The Soules Exaltation, 
London, 1638, pp. 26, 110. 

The Soules Preparation, London, 
1632, p. 66. 

A Survey of the Summe, London, 
1648, preface. 

Hubbard, William, The Happiness of a 
People, Boston, 1676, pp. 8-15, 36-38. 


Knapp, Francis, Gloria Britannorum, © 


Boston, 1723, p. Il. 

‘Lawson, Deodat, The Duty G Property 
of a Religious Hous[e\holder Opened, Boston, 
1693, Sig. A4. 

Mather, Cotton, The A. B. C. of Re- 
ligion, Boston, 1713, p. 4. 

Bonifacius, Boston, 1710, preface. 
Brethren, Boston, 1718, pp. 21, 23. 
Corderius Americanus, Boston, 1708, 
Introduction, and pp. 28, 29. 
Duodecennium Luctuosum, Boston, 
1714, Introduction, and p. 12. 

Just Commemorations, Boston, 1715, 
preface and p. 34. 

Magnalia, London, 1702. (See 


817 


Selections from Cotton Mather, ed. K. B. 
Murdock, New York, 1926, pp. 1, 6, 13, 
14, 18, 19, 26, 27.) 

Malachi, Boston, 1717, pp. 27, 


73: 

—— Manuductio, Boston, 1726, pp. 
28-35, 42, 44-50. (The section “Of 
Poetry and Style” is the only essay on the 
subject in America before Mather Byles’s 
essay on style in The American Magazine 
for January, 1745, and it is the best treat- 
ment of the subject before Franklin’s 
Autobiography.) 

Parentator, Boston, 1724, Intro- 
duction, and p. 215. 

-Psalterium Americanum, Boston, 
1718, Introduction. (Very important for 
the statement of his theories of trans- 
lation and his conception of blank verse.) 

Mather, Increase, A Call from Heaven, 
Boston, 1679, ““To the Reader.” 

Some Important Truths, London, 
1674, ““To the Reader.” 

Mather, Richard, in Increase Mather, 
The Life...of Richard Mather, Cam- 
bridge, 1670, p. 85. 

Mather, Samuel, The Life of . . . Cotton 
Mather, Boston, 1729, pp. 33, 68, 69, 72. 

Mayhew, Experience, Indian Converts, 
Boston, 1727, Introduction. 

Mitchell, Jonathan, Poem prefacing 
Michael Wigglesworth, The Day of Doom, 
Cambridge, 1662. 

Morgan, Joseph, Sin its own Punish- 
ment, Boston, 1728, ‘““To the Reader.”’ 

Morrell, William, New-England, Lon- 
don, 1625, ‘“To the Reader.” 

Morton, William, preface to John Cot- 
ton, The way of Life, London, 1641. 

Norton, John, The Heart of N-England 
rent, Cambridge, 1659, pp. 6, 58. 

Noyes, Nicholas, Prefatory poem to 
Cotton Mather, Magnalia, London, 1702. 

Oakes, Urian, An Elegie upon . . . Shep- 
ard, Cambridge, 1677, ““To the Reader.” 

Penhallow, Samuel, The History of the 
Wars of New-England, Boston, 1726, pref- 
ace. 

Perkins, William, The Art of Prophecying 
(1592), Works, London, 1631, II, 670 ff. 
(A work regarded as the authoritative 
manual of sermon style and practice in 
New England.) 

Pigot, George, A Vindication, Boston, 
1731, preface. 


818 


Prince, Thomas, A Chronological History 
of New-England, Boston, 1736, pref- 


ace. 


Preface to Thomas Hooker, The 
Poor Doubting Christian, Boston, 1743. 
Introduction to Meditations and 
Spiritual Experiences of Mr. Thomas Shep- 
ard, Boston, 1749. 

Prince, Thomas, and Joseph Sewall, 
Preface to Samuel Willard, A Compleat 
Body of Divinity, Boston, 1726. 

Saffin, John, Dedicatory poem in Wil- 
liam Hubbard, A Narrative of the Troubles 
with the Indians, Boston, 1677. 

John Saffin His Book, ed., with 
introduction by Caroline Hazard, New 
York, 1928, pp. 2, 47, 60. 

Seccomb, Joseph, On the Death Of the 
Reverend Benjamin Colman, Boston, 1747, 
p: 8. 

Select Essays, With some few Miscellaneous 
Copies of Verses, Boston [?]. 1714, pp. 10, 
11. (Unique copy in library of Massa- 
chusetts Historical Society.) 

Shepard, Thomas, “Subjection to 
Christ,” Works, ed. Albro, 1853, III, 278. 
(Preface by William Greenhill and Sam- 
uel Mather.) 

Steere, Richard, A Monumental Memorial 
of Marine Mercy, Boston, 1684, “To the 
Reader,” and p. 1. 

Symmes, Thomas, Lovewell Lamented, 
Boston, 1725, pp. 5, 6. 

**To Mr. B[yles] occasioned by his 
verses to Mr. Smibert on seeing his Pic- 


The Puritans 


tures,’ Proceedings of the Massachusetts His- 
torical Society, LIII (1920), 59. 

Turell, Ebenezer, The Life and Char- 
acter of the Reverend Benjamin Colman, Bos- 
ton, 1749, pp. 167-169. 

Memoir of ... Mrs. Fane Turell, 
London, 1741, pp. 15, 25-31. 

Ministers should carefully avoid giving 
Offence, Boston, 1740, pp. 14, 15. if 
Walter, Thomas, The Sweet Psalmist of 
Israel, Boston, 1722, Dedication and 

pp. I-15. 

Webb, John, The Duty of Survivers, Bos- 
ton, 1739, P- 27. 

White, John, The Planters Plea, London, 
1630, ““To the Reader.” 

Wigglesworth, Michael, The Day of 

Doom, Boston, 1701, Invocation. 
“The prayse of Eloquence,” in 
Samuel E. Morison, Harvard College in 
the Seventeenth Century, Cambridge, 1936, 
pp. 180-183. (From manuscript notebook 
in possession of the New England Histori- 
cal Genealogical Society.) 

Wilkins, John, Ecclesiastes, or A Discourse 
concerning the Gift of Preaching, London, 
1646. 

Willard, Samuel, Ne Sutor, Boston, 
1681, p. 2. 

‘Particular Application, the best 
way of teaching,” The Truly Blessed Man, 
Boston, 1700, pp. 423-434. 

Wise, John, and Jonathan Mitchell, 
Preface to Samuel Whiting, A Discourse 
of the Last Judgment, Cambridge, 1664. 


VII. PURITAN POETRY 


Though the Puritans remained relatively indifferent to poetry as an art, there were 
many among them who chose it as a vehicle to express their deepest feelings, and 
a few who achieved in it some measure of excellence. Elegies, memorial odes, satires, 
and hymns (or stanzas designed for congregational singing) make up the largest 
portion of the Puritan verses. 


A. PRIMARY SOURCES 


No attempt is made to list the great number of elegies which were written, and all 
too often printed, during the first century of the New England settlements. Such 
items are usually found in broadsides. Occasionally they were appended to funeral 
sermons, or scattered through such histories as Johnson’s Wonder-working Providence, 
Morton’s New-Englands Memoriall, or Mather’s Magnalia. (See Ford and Winslow 
below.) 


Adams, John, Poems on Several Occasions, 
Original and Translated, Boston, 1745. 

[ The Bay Psalm Book.| The Whole Booke 
of Psalmes Faithfully Translated into Eng- 


lish Metre, Cambridge, 1640. Many edi- 


tions. 
Bradstreet, Anne, The Tenth Muse Lately 
sprung up in America, London, 1650. Sec- 


Bibliographies 


ond edition published with title Several 
Poems Compiled with great variety of Wit and 
Learning, full of delight, Boston, 1678; 
1758. Works, ed. John H. Ellis, Charles- 
town, Mass., 1867; ed. Charles E. Norton, 
New York, 1897. 

Bradstreet, Samuel, An Almanack for... 
1657, Cambridge, 1657. 

Byles, Mather, The Comet, Boston, 1744. 
On the Death of the Queen: A Poem, 
Boston, 1738. 

A Poem on the Death of His Late 
Majesty, King George, Boston, 1727. 
Poems. The Conflagration, Boston, 


1755: 


Poems on Several Occasions, Boston, 
17363 1744. . 

To His Excellency Governor Belcher 
on the Death of his Lady, Boston, 1736. 

Byles, Mather, Joseph Green, John 
Adams, and others, A Collection of Poems. 
By Several Hands, Boston, 1744. 

Colman, Benjamin, A Poem on Elijah’s 
Translation, Boston, 1707. 

Folger, Peter, A Looking Glass For the 
Times, Cambridge, 1676; 1763. (No Puri- 
tan, Folger was a Nantucket Quaker, 
grandfather of Benjamin Franklin.) 

Ford, Worthington C., ed., ““Epitaphs 
on Nowell, Endicott, Withington and 
Pole,” Publications of the Colonial Society of 
Massachusetts, VIII (1906), 224-233. 

Green, Joseph, Entertainment for a Win- 
ter’s Evening, Boston, 1750. 

The Grand Arcanum Debated, Bos- 
ton, 1755. 

A Mournfull Lamentation for the 
Death of Mr. Old Tenor, Boston, 1750. 

Handkerchiefs from Paul, ed. K. B. Mur- 
dock, Cambridge, 1927. (Poems from six 
seventeenth-century Puritans. This well- 
edited volume contains the best introduc- 
tion on Puritan poetry to be found.) 

Harvard Heroics: A Collection of Eighteenth 
Century Verse Descriptions of Harvard College, 
ed. Robert A. Aubin, Cambridge, 1934. 
(Contains Mather Byles’s Hogarthian 
sketch of a public Commencement.) 

Hubbard, John, A Monumental Gratitude 
Attempted, In a Poetical Relation of the Danger 
and Deliverance of Several of the Members of 
Yale-College in Passing the Sound, from South- 
hold to New-Haven, New London, 1727. 

Johnson, Edward, Wonder-working 
Providence. [See section II A.] (Johnson’s 


819 


history is interspersed with many epitaphs 
and poetic memorials.) 

Oakes, Urian, An Elegy upon The Death 
of the Reverend Mr. Thomas Shepard, Cam- 
bridge, 1677. Reprinted Boston, 1896. 
(Perhaps the best elegy written by a 
colonial Puritan.) 

Pain, Philip, Daily Meditations; or, Quo- 
tidian Preparations for and Considerations of 
Death and Eternity, Cambridge, 1670. Re- 
printed with an Introduction by Leon 
Howard, San Marino, Calif., 1936. 

Russell, Daniel, An Almanack, Cam- 
bridge, 1671. 

Seccombe, John, ‘Father Abbey’s 
Will,” Cambridge, 1730; ed. John L. 
Sibley, 1854. (Verses on the college bed- 
maker.) 

Select Essays, Boston, 1714. (A collec- 
tion of poems and prose essays, written 
perhaps by young Harvard graduates.) 

Steere, Richard, The Daniel Catcher. The 
Life Of the Prophet Daniel: in a Poem. To 
which is Added, Earth’s Felicities, Heaven’s 
Allowances, A Blank Poem. With several 
other Poems, Boston, 1713. (The earliest 
attempt in America to write blank verse.) 
A Monumental Memorial of Marine 
Mercy Being An Acknowledgment of an High 
Hand of Divine Deliverance on the Deep in 
the Time of distress, in A Late Voyage from 
Boston in New-England To London, Boston, 
1684. 

Taylor, Edward, ‘Poetical Works,” 
Manuscript in Yale University Library. 
Selections ed. Thomas H. Johnson, New 
England Quarterly, X (1937), 290-322. 

Tompson, Benjamin, Works, ed. How- 
ard J. Hall, Boston, 1924. 

Wigglesworth, Michael, “‘“Gods Con- 

troversy with New England” (1662), 
Proceedings of the Massachusetts Historical 
Society, XII (1873), 83-03. 
Meat out of the Eater, Cambridge, 
1670[?]; 6th ed., New London, 1770. 
(See Yale Unwwersity Gazette, V (1931), 45- 
47-) 


The Day of Doom, Cambridge, 
1662; ed. Kenneth B. Murdock, New 
York, 1929. 

Wilson, John, A Song or, Story, For 
the Lasting Remembrance of divers famous 
works, London, 1626. (The same, Boston, 
1680, A Song of Deliverance.) 

Winslow, Ola E., ed., American Broad- 


820 


side Verse from Imprints of the r7th and 18th 
Centuries, New Haven, 19930. 
Wolcott, Roger, Poetical Meditations, 


The Puritans 


being the Improvement of Some Vacant Hours, 
New London, 1725; reprinted Boston, 
1898. 


B. PuriTAN LIrTERATURE—SECONDARY WORKS 


No general history of colonial literature has yet superseded Tyler’s account, under- 
taken in the last quarter of the nineteenth century. The two-volume Duyckinck 
Cyclopedia, issued nearly a century ago, contains a large gathering of prose and verse; 
Stedman and Hutchinson’s Library devotes three volumes to literature in the American 


colonial period, and remains the most extensive anthology. 


Adams, Charles F., ‘‘“Milton’s Impress 
on the Provincial Literature of New Eng- 
land,” Proceedings of the Massachusetis His- 
torical Society, XLII (1909), 154-170. 

Bleyer, Willard G., Main Currents in the 
History of American Journalism, Boston, 
1927. 

Bradford, Eugene F., ““Conscious Art in 
Bradford’s History of Plymouth Plantation,” 
New England Quarterly, I (1928), 133-157. 

Cambridge History of American Literature, 
The, ed. Williara P. Trent and others, 
New York, 1917-1921, 4 vols.; 1933, 3 
vols. (Vol. I covers the colonial period; 
good bibliographies.) 

Cook, Elizabeth C., Literary Influences 
in Colonial Newspapers, 1704-1750, New 
York, 1912. 

Duyckinck, Evert A., and George L., 
eds., Cyclopedia of American Literature, New 
York, 1855, 2 vols. (Still useful.) 

Greenough, Chester N., ““The Pub- 
lication of Cotton Mather’s Magnalia,” 
Publications of the Colonial Society of Massa- 
chusetis, X XVI (1927), 296-312. 

Grierson, Herbert J. C., Cross Currents in 
English Literature of the Seventeenth Century, 
London, 1929. 

Hornberger, Theodore, “A Note on 
Eighteenth-Century American Prose 
Style,” American Literature, X (1938), 77- 
78. (Cites an early example (1708) of an 
American author being charged with pro- 
vinciality in style.) 

Jones, Howard M., “American Prose 
Style: 1700-1770,” Huntington Library Bul- 
letin, No. 6, 1934, pp. 115-151. 
‘*Desiderata in Colonial Literary 
History,” Publications of the Colonial Society 
of Massachusetts, XXXII (1938), 428-439. 

Jones, Richard F., “The Attack on 
Pulpit Eloquence in the Restoration: An 
Episode in the Development of the Neo- 
classical Standards for Prose,” Journal 


of English and Germanic Philology, XXX 
(1931), 188-217. 

“Science and English Prose Style 
in the Third Quarter of the Seventeenth 
Century,” Publications of the Modern Lan- 
guage Association, XLV (1930), 977-1009. 

—— “Science and Language in Eng- 
land of the Mid-seventeenth Century,” 
Journal of English and Germanic Philology, 
XXXI (1932), 315-331. 

Jordan, Philip 'D., ““The Funeral Ser- 
mon; A Phase of American Journalism,” 
American Book Collector, IV (1933), 177- 
188. 

Lee, James M., History of American 
Journalism, rev. ed., Boston, 1923. 

Matthiessen, Francis O., ‘‘Michael 
Wigglesworth, a Puritan Artist,’ New 
England Quarterly, I (1928), 491-504. 

Mitchell, W. Fraser, English Pulpit Ora- 
tory from Andrewes to Tillotson: A Study of its 
Literary Aspects, London, 1932. (Indis- 
pensable for literary forms and values of 
sermons; excellent bibliography.) 

Morison, Samuel E., ““The Reverend 
Seaborn Cotton’s Commonplace Book,” 
Publications of the Colonial. Society of Massa- 
chusetts, XXXII (1938), 320-352. (Family 
and church records interspersed with ex- 
tracts from Sidney’s Arcadia, and verses 
from ballads and amorous poetry.) 

Nichols, Charles L., ““The Holy Bible 
in Verse,” Proceedings of the American Anti- 
guarian Society, N.S. XXXVI (1926), 71- 
82. (Earliest written, 1699; earliest extant, 
571.7.) 

Owst, Gerald R., Literature and Pulpit in 
Medieval England, Cambridge, Eng., 1933. 
(Important background.) 

Piercy, Josephine, “Beginnings of the 
Essay in America, 1607-1710,” Manu- 
script dissertation, Yale University, 1932. 

Richardson, Caroline F., English Preach- 
ers and Preaching, 1640-1670. A Secular 


Bibliographies 


Study, New York, 1928. (Very useful for 
understanding the character of sermon 
literature.) 

Richardson, Lyon N., A History of Early 
American Magazines, 1741-1789, New York, 
1931. (Best history of the subject; im- 
mense bibliography.) 

Rosenbach, Abraham S. W., Early 
American Children’s Books, Portland, Me., 
1933- 

Russell, Jason A., ‘““The Narratives of 
the Indian Captivities,” Education, LI 
(1930), 84-88. 

Shaaber, Matthias A., ““Forerunners of 
the Newspaper in the United States,” 
Journalism Quarterly, XI (1934), 339-347- 

Shipton, Clifford K., “‘Literary Leaven 
in Provincial New England,” New Eng- 
land Quarterly, IX (1936), 203-217. 

Stedman, Edmund C., and Ellen M. 
Hutchinson, eds., A Library of American 
Literature from the Earliest Settlement to the 
Present Time, New York, 1888-1890, 11 
vols. (Vols. I, II, and III cover the colo- 
nial period; the most extensive anthol- 
ogy-) 

Thayer, William R., ‘‘Pen Portraiture 
in Seventeenth Century Colonial His- 


821 


torians,” Proceedings of the American Anti- 
quarian Society, N.S., XX XI (1921), 61-69. 

Titus, Anson, “Madam Sarah Knight, 
Her Diary and Her Times,” Bostonian 
Society Publications, TX (1912), g9—126. 

Tyler, Moses C., A History of American 
Literature during the Colonial Period, 1607— 
1765, New York, 1878, 2 vols; rev. ed., 
1897. (Still the best discussion of colonial 
American literature.) 

Wendell, Barrett, A Literary History of 
America, 6th ed., New York, 1911. 
(Heavily biased in favor of the Puritan 
tradition, but written on the basis of 
deep knowledge of the seventeenth cen- 
tury.) 


The Temper of the Seventeenth Cen- 
tury in English Literature, New York, 1904. 
White, Helen C., English Devotional Lit- 
erature, 1600-1640. Madison, Wis., 1931. 
(Valuable study of religious prose.) , 

White, Trentwell M., and Paul W. 
Lehmann, Writers of Colonial New England, 
Boston, 1929. 

Wroth, Lawrence C., “John Maylem: 
Poet and Warrior,” Publications of the 
Colonial Society of Massachusetts, XXXII 
(1938), 87-120. 


VIII. EDUCATION 


No colonizing Puritan wrote formal discourses on education; his theories for 
the training of youth are expressed in funeral sermons, diaries, letters, and 
public addresses. Further bibliographical data is supplied in the headings through- 


out the chapter on Education. 


A. PrimMARY SOURCES 


Puritans, like other cultivated Englishmen of the time, were deeply concerned in 
acquiring an education, as their incidental remarks make sufficiently clear. 


Chauncy, Charles, Gods Mercy, shewed 
to his people in giving them a faithful Ministry 
and schooles of Learning for the continual sup- 
plyes thereof, Cambridge, 1655. 

Colman, Benjamin, The Master Taken 
up from the Sons of the Prophets, Boston, 
1724. (Funeral sermon on President Lev- 
erett.) 

Hancock, John, The Danger of an Un- 
qualified Ministry, Boston, 1743. (A sermon 
directed against itinerant preachers and 
an illiterate clergy.) 

Harvard College Records, Publications of the 
Colonial Society of Massachusetts, Vols. XV, 
XVI, XXXI (1925-1935). 

Hoar, Leonard, “[Letter] To his Fresh- 


man Nephew, Josiah Flynt,” 1661, in 
Samuel E. Morison, Harvard College in the 
Seventeenth Century, Cambridge, 1936, 
pp. 639-644. 

Keach, Benjamin, The Protestant Tutor 
Sor Children, Boston, 1685. > 

Mather, Cotton, Corderius Americanus. 
An Essay upon the Good Education of Chil- 
dren, Boston, 1708. (A funeral sermon 
upon Ezekiel Cheever.) 
“Special Points,” The Diary of 
Cotton Mather, ed. Worthington C. Ford, 
Collections of the Massachusetts Historical So- 
ciety, seventh series, VII (1911), 534-537- 
(An outline, dated February 1705/06, 
relating to the education of his children.) 


822 


Mather, Increase, ‘‘Presidential Ad- 
dress,” ca. 1696, in Samuel E. Morison, 
Harvard College in the Seventeenth Century, 
Cambridge, 1936, p. 167. 

New Englands First Fruits, London, 1643. 
Reprinted various times: most recently 
in a line-for-line and word-for-word re- 
print in Samuel E. Morison, The Found- 
ing of Harvard College, Cambridge, 1935, 


The Puritans 


pp. 419-447. (An account of the first 
commencement at Harvard in 1642; 
classic statement of the Puritan educa- 
tional ideal.) 

Shepard, Thomas, Jr., “A Letter 

. to his Son att his Admission into 
the College,’ Publications of the Colo- 
nial Society of Massachusetts, XIV (1913), 
192-198. 


B. SECONDARY Works 


Detailed and accurate studies of Puritan education, necessarily slow in appearing, 
are still in progress. The works in this field by Morison and Seybolt are especially 


noteworthy. 


Adamson, John W., Pioneers of Modern 
Education, 1600-1700, Cambridge, Eng., 
1905. 

Chamberlain, Joshua L., and others, 
Yale University, Boston, 1900. 

Chaplin, Jeremiah, Life of Henry Dun- 
ster,, Boston, 1872. (Contains many im- 
portant documents.) 

Clapp, Clifford B., “Christo et Ec- 
clesiae,’’ Publications of the Colonial Society 
of Massachusetts, XXV- (1924), 59-83. 

Cubberley, E. P., Public Education in the 
United States, Boston, 1919. (Convenient 
bibliographies.) 

Dexter, Franklin B., Documentary His- 
tory of Yale University, 1701-1745, New 
Haven, 1916. 

Ford, Paul L., The New-England Primer, 
New York, 1897. 

Gambrell, Mary L., Ministerial Train- 
ing in Eighteenth-Century New England, New 
© OFk; '1997. 

Hansen, Allen O., Liberalism and Amer- 
ican Education in the Eighteenth Century, New 
York, 1926. (The emphasis is mainly on 
the latter half of the century; well docu- 
mented, with a good bibliography of 
primary sources.) 

Hazlitt, William C., Schools, School-books 
and Schoolmasters, London, 1888. 

Holmes, Pauline, A Tercentenary History 
of the Boston Public Latin School, 1635-1935, 
Cambridge, 1935. 

Johnson, Clifton, Old-Time Schools and 
School-Books, New York, 1904. 

Klain, Zora, Educational Activities of New 
England Quakers, Philadelphia, 1928. 

Lane, William C., ‘Early Harvard 
Broadsides,”? Proceedings of the American 
Antiquarian Society, N.S. XXIV (1914), 


264-304. 


Littlefield, George E., Early Schools 
and School-Books of New England, Boston, 
1904. ; 
“Elijah Corlet and the ‘Faire 
Grammar Schoole’ at Cambridge,”’ Pub- 
lications of the Colonial Society of Massachu- 
setts, XVII (1915), 131-140. 

Matthews, Albert, “‘A Proposal for the 
Enlargement of University Learning in 
New England, 1658-1660,” Proceedings of 
the Massachusetts Historical Society, XLI 
(1908), 301-308. 

Meriwether, Colyer, Our Colonial Cur- 
riculum, 1607-1776, Washington, 1907. 

Morison, Samuel E., The Founding of 
Harvard College, Cambridge, 1935. (A his- 
tory of intellectual backgrounds and 
movements as well as of Harvard, the 
volume presents the college as a school 
of culture, not simply as a theological 
seminary.) 

Harvard College in the Seventeenth 
Century, Cambridge, 1936. (Mr. Morison 
is engaged on a continuation of the Har- 
vard History through the eighteenth cen- 


tury.) 


**Precedence at Harvard College 
in the Seventeenth Century,”’ Proceedings 
of the American Antiquarian Society, N.S. 
XLIT (1932), 371-431. 

Murdock, Kenneth B., ““The Teaching 
of Latin and Greek at the Boston Latin 
School in 1712,” Publications of the Colonial 
Society of Massachusetts, XX VII (1932), 
21-29. 


“Cotton Mather and the Rector- 
ship of Yale College,’ Publications of the 
Colonial Society of Massachusetts, XXVI 
(1927), 388-401. 

Oviatt, Edwin, The Beginnings of Yale, 
1701-1726, New Haven, 1916, 


Bi bliogra phies 


Parker, Irene, Dissenting Academies in 


England, Cambridge, Eng., 1914. 

Perrin, Porter G., “‘Possible Sources of 
Technologia at Early Harvard,” New Eng- 
land Quarterly, VII (1934), 718-724. 

—— “The Teaching of Rhetoric in 
American Colleges before 1750,” Manu- 
script dissertation, University of Chicago, 
1936. 

Plimpton, George A., ““The Hornbook 
and Its Use in America,”’ Proceedings of the 
American Antiquarian Society, N.s. XXVI 
(1916), 264-272. 

Pool, David de S., ““Hebrew Learning 
Among the Puritans of New England 
Prior to 1700,” Publications of the American 
Jewish Historical Society, XX (1911), 31- 
83. 

Rand, Benjamin, ‘Philosophical In- 
struction in Harvard University from 
1636 to 1906,” Harvard Graduates’ Maga- 
zine, XXXVII (1928), 29-47; 188-200, 
296-311. 

Rand, Edward K.., “Liberal Education 
in Seventeenth-Century Harvard,” New 
England Quarterly, VI (1933), 525-55!- 

Rashdall, Hastings, The Universities of 
Europe in the Middle Ages, revised by F. M. 
Powicke and A. B. Emden, Oxford, 1936. 
(Essential for backgrounds of Puritan 
education and culture.) 

Robbins, Fred G., ‘‘Salaries of School- 
teachers in Colonial America,” Monthly 
Labor Review, XXVIII (1929), 27-31. 

Seybolt, Robert F., Apprenticeship © 
Apprenticeship Education in Colonial New Eng- 
land & New York, New York, i917. 


$23 


Thes Evening School in Colonial 
America, Urbana, IIll., 1925. 

The Private Schools of Colonial Bos- 
ton, Cambridge, 1935. 

“The Private Schools of Seven- 
teenth-Century Boston,” New England 
Quarterly, VIII (1935), 418-424. 

The Public Schools of Colonial Bos- 
ton, 1635-1775, Cambridge, 1935. 
““Schoolmasters of Colonial Bos- 
ton,” Publications of the Colonial Society 
of Massachusetts, XXVII (1932), 130- 
156. 

Shipton, Clifford K., ‘“Secondary Edu- 
cation in the Puritan Colonies,” New 
England Quarterly, VII (1934), 646-661. 
(During the eighteenth century public 
schools improved in quality.) 

Simpson, Claude M., “The English 
Speech of Early Rhode Island, 1636- 
1700,” Manuscript dissertation, Harvard 
University, 1936. 

Small, Walter H., Early New England 
Schools, Boston, 1914. 

Steiner, Bernard C., The History of 
Education in Connecticut, Washington, 
1893. 

Tuer, Andrew W., The History of the 
Horn-Book, London, 1896. 

Updegraff, Harlan, The Origin of the 
Moving School in Massachusetts, New York, 
1907. 

Walsh, James J., ““Scholasticism in the 
Colonial Colleges,” New England Quar- 
terly, V (1932), 483-532. 

Wood, Norman, The Reformation and 
English Education, London, 1931. 


IX. -SCIENCE 


The speculative nature of the Puritan made him keenly alert to developments in 
the scientific field. As long as he saw the shaping hand of God in the phenomenal 
universe, he not only accepted scientific inquiry but sought to advance it. He gathered 
data on earthquakes, thunderstorms, comets; on farming and the natural history 
of New England; on medical prodigies and physical disease. Most notably of all, he 
advanced the cause of inoculation for smallpox. 


A. Primary SOURCES 


The student should note particularly the number of contributions made by Puritans 
to the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London. 


Boylston, Zabdiel, ““The way of pro- 
ceeding in the Small Pox inoculated in 
New England,” Philosophical Transactions, 
Royal Society of London, XXXII (1721), 


No. 370, pp. 33-35. (Written in collabo- 
ration with Cotton Mather.) 

Brattle, William, Sundry Rules and Regula- 
tions for Drawing up a Regiment, Boston, 1733. 


824 


A Brief Rule To guide the Common-People 
of New-England How to order themselves and 
theirs in the Small Pocks, or Measles, Bos- 
ton, 1677. (A broadside; the earliest med- 
ical treatise printed in the colonies.) 

Colman, Benjamin, Some Observations 
on the New Method of Receiving the Small- 
Pox, by ingrafting or inoculating, Boston, 
1721, 

Cooper, William, A Letter... Aitempt- 
ing a Solution of the Objections ... Against 
the New Way of Receiving the Small-Pox, 
Boston, 1721. 

Danforth, Samuel, An Astronomical De- 
scription of the Late Comet or Blazing Star, 
As it appeared in New-England in the gth, 
roth, r1th and in the beginning of the 12th 
Moneth, 1664. Together With a brief Theo- 


logical Application thereof, Cambridge, 
1665. 
Doolittle, Thomas, Earthquakes Ex- 


plained and practically Improved, London, 
1693. 

Dudley, Paul, “An Account of the 
Method of Making Sugar from the Juice 
of the Maple Tree in New England,” 
Philosophical Transactions, Royal Society 
of London, XXXI (1720), No. 364, 
pp. 27, 28. (Dudley contributed in all, 
twelve scientific essays to the Philosophical 
_ Transactions. For a bibliography, see Sib- 
ley’s Biographical Sketches, IV, 54.) 

Edwards, Jonathan, “Some Early Writ- 
ings of Jonathan Edwards,” ed. Egbert C. 
Smyth, Proceedings of the American Anti- 
quarian Society, N.s. X (1895), 212-247; 
XI (1896), 251-252. 

“Of Insects,” ed. Egbert C. 
Smyth, Andover Review, XIII (1890), 1-19. 

Greenwood, Isaac, An Experimental 
Course on Mechanical Philosophy, Boston, 
1726. 


A Friendly Debate; or, A Dialogue 
Between Academicus; and Sawny G@ Mundun- 
gus, Two Eminent Physicians, About some of 
thetr Late Performances, Boston, 1722. (A 
satire.) 


A Philosophical Discourse concerning 
the Mutability and Changes of the Material 
World, Boston, 1731. 

Hoar, Leonard, “‘Letter to Mr. Robert 
Boyle,” in Boyle’s Works (London, 1744, 
6 vols.), V, 642, 643; reprinted in S. E. 
Morison, Harvard College in the Seventeenth 
Century, Cambridge, 1936, pp. 644-646. 


The Puritans 


Lee, Samuel, ’EXeoprapBos. Or the 
Triumph of Mercy in the Chariot of Praise. 
A Treatise Of Preventing secret G unexpected 
Mercies, Boston, 1718. 

A Letter from One in the Country, to His 
Friend in the City; in Relation to the Distress 
Occasioned by... . Inoculation, Boston, 1721. 

Mather, Cotton, “‘Account of a great 
storm, 1723,” Collections of the Massachu- 
setts Historical Society, first series, II, (1810), 
II. 


A Leiter to a Friend in the Country, 
Attempting a Solution of the Scruples... 
against the New Way of receiving the Small- 
Pox, Boston, 1721. , 

The Christian Philosopher: A Col- 
lection of the Best Discoveries in Nature, with 
Religious Improvements, London, 1721. (The 
most important indication of New Eng- 
land’s familiarity with the scientific ad- 
vance.) 


Ignorantia Scientifica, Boston, 1727. 

Mather, Increase, A Discourse Concern- 
ing Earthquakes, Boston, 1706. 

An Essay for the Recording of Illus- 
trious Providences, Boston, 1684. Reprinted 
with introduction by George Offor, 
under the title Remarkable Providences, 
London, 1856; 1890. 
KOMHTOLPA®IA. Or A Dis- 
course Concerning Comets, Boston, 1683; 
London, 1811. 

The Latter-Sign Discoursed of. Paged 
separately in the second edition of Heavens 
Alarm to the World, Boston, 1682. 

Severall Reasons Proving that Inocu- 
lation... is a Lawful Practice, Boston, 
1721; ed. with introduction by George 
L. Kittredge, Cleveland, 1921. 

The Voice of God, in Stormy Winds, 
Boston, 1704. 

Mather, Samuel, A Letter to Doctor Zab- 
diel Boylston; Occasion’d by a.late Disserta- 
tion concerning Inoculation, Boston, 1730. 

Morton, Charles, Compendium Physicae. 
(A manuscript handbook of physics, the 
standard text at Harvard College at the 
end of the seventeenth century. Copies 
are to be found in the Massachusetts 
Historical Society and the Harvard Col- 
lege Library; summarized in Morison, 
Harvard College in the Seventeenth Century, 
pp. 236-249. An edition is in preparation 
for the Club of Odd Volumes, Boston, by 
Theodore Hornberger.) 


Bibliographies 


Paine, Thomas, The Doctrine of Earth- 
quakes, Boston, 1728. 

Prince, Thomas, ‘‘Account of the 
Northern Lights, when first seen in Eng- 
land, 1716,”’ Collections of the Massachusetts 
Historical Society, first series, II (1793), 
14-20. 


Earthquakes the Works of God, Bos- 
ton), 1.72'7. 

Robie, Thomas, A Letter to a Certain 
Gentleman desiring a particular Account may 
be given of a wonderful meteor, Boston, 1719. 

Williams, John, Several Arguments Prov- 
ing that the Inoculating of the Small-Pox is 
not Contained in the Law of Physick, Either 
Natural or Divine, and therefore Unlawful, 
Boston, 1721. 

An Answer to a Late Pamphlet, in- 


825 


titled, A Letter to a Friend in the Country, 
Boston, 1722. 

Winthrop, John, Jr., ““Correspondence 
with Members of the Royal Society,’ 
Proceedings of the Massachusetts Historical 
Society, XVI (1878), 206-251. 

—— “An Extract of a Letter... con- 
cerning some Natural Curiosities,” Philo- 
sophical Transactions, Royal Society of 
London, V (1670), 1151-1153. 

Winthrop, John (1681-1747), ‘‘Ac- 
count of the Winter, 1717,” Collections of 
the Massachusetts Historical Society, first 
series, IT (1793), 11, 12. (This John Win- 
throp of Boston, as well as his uncle, John 
Winthrop, Jr., governor of Connecticut, 
was a member of the Royal Society of 
London.) 


B. Poputar SCIENCE IN THE ALMANACS 


The almanacs of New England, edited by a series of young Harvard graduates, 
often contain a page or two of scientific information especially designed for popular 
instruction. Even though brief, the articles indicate on the one hand the knowledge 
of the authors, and on the other the interest of the people. See Samuel E. Morison, 
Harvard College in the Seventeenth Century, pp. 216-219; see also in this bibliography 
Section IV B 1. The arrangement here is chronological. 


TS. (Vhomas Shepard, Jr: i]; cA 
Brief Explication of the most observable 


Circles in the Heavens,”’ Almanack, Cam- 


bridge, 1656. 

Brigden, Zechariah, ‘‘A breif Explica- 
tion and proof of the Philolaick Systeme,” 
Almanack, Cambridge, 1659; reprinted 
in New England Quarterly, VII (1934), 
g-12. (The first recorded exposition of 
the Copernican system in New England.) 

Cheever, Samuel, “‘A brief discourse 
concerning the various Periods of time,” 
Almanack, Cambridge, 1660. 

**A breif Discourse of the Rise and 
Progress of Astronomy,” Almanack, Cam- 
bridge, 1661. 

Chauncy, Nathaniel, “The primum 
mobile,” Almanack, Cambridge, 1662. 

Chauncy, Israel, ““The Theory of Plane- 
tary Orbs,” Almanack, Cambridge, 1663. 

Nowell, Alexander, “The Suns Pre- 
rogative Vindicated,” Almanack, Cam- 
bridge, 1665. 

J. S. [John Sherman or Jeremiah 
Shepard ?], ‘‘A Postscript to the preced- 
ing Kalender,” Almanack, Cambridge, 
1674. ; 

Foster, J[ohn], “‘A brief Description of 


the Coelestial Orbs according to the 
Opinion of that Ancient Philosopher Py- 
thagoras, and of all later Astronomers,” 
Almanack, Boston, 1675. (Foster was the 
first printer in Boston.) 

Sherman, John, “Of Eclipses of the 
Sun and Moon,” Almanack, Cambridge, 
1676. 

J. F. [John Foster], ‘“The Course of the 
Spring-tides this year,” Almanack, Boston, 
1678. 

J. D. [John Danforth], ““A Brief Me- 
morial of some few Remarkable Occur- 
rences in the 6 preceding yeares,”’ Alma- 
nack, Cambridge, 1679. 

Foster, John, “Postscript,” Almanack, 
Boston, 1679. (An explanation of leap- 
year.) 

‘*The Natures and Operations of 
the seven Planets,’ Almanack, Boston, 
1680. 

—— “Of Comets, Their Motion, Dis- 
tance & Magnitude,” followed by “‘Ob- 
servations of a Comet seen this last Winter 
1680, and how it appeared at Boston,” 
Almanack, Boston, 1681. 

Brattle, William, “An Explanation of 
the Preceding Ephemeris,” Ephemeris, 


826 


Cambridge, 1682. (A series of philosophi- 
cal and scientific observations on Reason, 
the calendar, eclipses, and the planets.) 

Mather, Cotton, “‘A Description of the 
Last Years Comet,” Ephemeris, Boston, 
1683. 

Russell, Nfoadiah], ‘Concerning 
Lightning, and Thunder,” Ephemeris, 
Cambridge, 1684. 

Williams, William], “Concerning a 
Rainbow”; ‘“‘Concerning the nature of 
Comets,” Ephemeris, Cambridge, 1685. 

Mather, Nathaniel, “‘A short view of 

the Discoveries that have been made in 
the Heavens with, and since the invention 
of the Telescope,” Ephemeris, Boston, 
1685. 
““Concerning some late discover- 
ies respecting the fixed Stars’; “‘Con- 
cerning late marvellous Astronomical 
Discoveries in the Planets,” Ephemeris, 
Boston, 1686. 

Danforth, Samuel, ‘““Ad Librum,”’ New- 
England Almanack, Cambridge, 1686. 
(Dedicatory poem, with defence of as- 
tronomy.) 


The Puritans 


Tulley, John, “Of the Rain-bow: 
Whence it is, and what it signifieth’’; 
“Of Thunder and Lightning,” Almanack, 
Boston, 1690. 

Newman, Henry, “‘A Postscript Exhib- 
iting somewhat Touching the Earth’s Mo- 
tion,’ Harvard’s Ephemeris, or Almanack, 
Gasaientaes 1690. 

“Of Telescopes,” News arn the 
Stars, An Almanack, Boston, 1691. 

Tulley, John, ah dea icait Observa- 
tions of the Weather & Winds from the 
Planets & their Aspects,”’ Almanack, Cam- 
bridge, 1692. 

Brattle, William, “‘A Postscript con- 
cerning the Tides, Weather, etc.,’’ Alma- 
nack, Boston, 1694. 

Lodowick, C[hristian], Concerning 
“certain Impieties and Absurdities” in 
the “Astrological Predictions”’ of ‘Tulley: 
‘“‘As for Meteorology, it is meerly con- 
jectural,”? New-England Almanack, Boston, 
1695. 

Tulley, John, “Concerning Astrology 
& Meteorology,’ Almanack, Boston, 1696. 
(An answer to the attack of Lodowick.) 


C. WITCHCRAFT 


Material concerning witchcraft is also to be found in the Diary of Cotton Mather 


and the Diary of Samuel Sewall. See also Justin Winsor, 


The Memorial History of 


Boston, Vol. I1; John G. Palfrey, A Compendious History of New England, IV, 96 ff; 
John Fiske, New France and New England (New York, 1902). 


1. Primary Sources 


The number of items here listed is lim- 
ited to such as are historically impor- 
tant; the list is by no means exhaustive. 


Brattle, Thomas, ‘‘A Full and Candid 
Account of the Delusion called Witch- 
craft which prevailed in New England,”’ 
(MS. ca. 1692), Collections of the Massachu- 
setts Historical Society, first series, V (1798), 
61-80. 

Burr, George L., ed., Narratives of the 
Witchcraft Cases, 1648-1706, New York, 
1914. (The volume includes the essential 
portions of works concerned with Salem 
witchcraft: Cotton Mather, Late Memo- 
rable Providences, 1691; Deodat Lawson, 
Brief and True Narrative, 1692; Thomas 
Brattle, A Full and Candid Account of the 
Delusions, 1692; Cotton Mather, Wonders 
of the Invisible World, 1693; Cotton 
Mather, A Brand Pluck’d out of the Burn- 


ing, 1693; Robert Calef, More Wonders, 
1700.) 

Hale, John, A Modest Enquiry into the 
Nature of Witchcraft, Boston, 1702. 

Hutchinson, Francis, An. Historical Es- 
say concerning Witchcraft, London, 1718. 

Hutchinson, Thomas, The Witchcraft 
Delusion of 1692, ed. W. F. Poole, Boston, 
1870. 

Lawson, Deodat, Christs Fidelity the Only 
Shield Against Satans Malignity, Boston, 
1693. (A terrifying sermon, delivered at 
Danvers (Salem Village), March 24, 1692, 
at the height of the panic; an explicit 
statement of the Puritan conception of the 
character and role of the devil.) 

Mather, Increase, Cases of Conscience 
Concerning Evil Spirits Personating Men; 
Witchcrafts, Infallible Proofs of Guilt in such 
as are Accused with that Crime, Boston, 
1693; London, 1693; 1862. (The state- 
ment of rules and procedure in the 


Bibliographies 


examination of witches which, had it 
been followed by the Court at Salem, 
would have prevented the craze and the 
executions. See Kenneth B. Murdock, 
Increase Mather, pp. 287-316.) 

A Disquisition Concerning Angelical- 
Apparitions, Boston, 1696. 

Turell, Ebenezer, ‘“Detection of Witch- 
craft,” Collections of the Massachusetts His- 
torical Society, second series, X (1823), 
6-22. 

Woodward, William E., ed., Records of 
Salem Witchcraft, Roxbury, Mass., 1864, 
2 vols. 


2. Secondary Works (Witchcraft) 


Because of the fierceness of the contro- 
versy, the witchcraft delusion has often 
been disproportionately emphasized in 
Puritan history. Actually it played but 
a small part in affairs and was soon over. 


Coffin, Joshua, A Sketch of the History 
of Newbury, [Massachusetts], ... from 1635 
to 1845, Boston, 1845. 

Drake, Samuel G., Annals of Witchcraft 

in New England, and Elsewhere in the United 
States, Boston, 1869. 
The Witchcraft Delusion in New 
England, Roxbury, Mass., 1866, 3 vols. 
(Contains original focortls ana deposi- 
tions.) 

Fowler, Samuel P., An Account of the 
Life... of the Rev. Samuel Parris, Salem, 
1857. 

Greene, Samuel A., Groton in Witchcraft 
Times, Groton, Mass., 1883. 

Gummere, Amelia M., Witchcraft and 
Quakerism, Philadelphia, 1908. 

Haven, Samuel F., The Mathers and the 
Witchcraft Delusions, Worcester, 1874. 

Holmes, Thomas J., “Cotton Mather 


827 


and His Writings on Witchcraft,” Papers 
of the Bibliographical Society of America, 
XVIII (1925), 30-59. 

Kittredge, George L., Witchcraft in Old 
and New England, Cambridge, 1929. (The 
chapter on witchcraft in New England is 
the definitive analysis, based upon ex- 
haustive knowledge of the whole history 
of witchcraft in Europe.) 

Levermore, Charles H., ‘“‘Witchcraft 
in Connecticut,” New England Magazine, 
n.s. VI (1892), 636-644. 

Nevins, Winfield S., Witchcraft in Salem 
Village in 1692, Salem, 1916. 

Notestein, Wallace, A History of Witch- 
craft in England from 1558 to 1718, Wash- — 
ington, IQII. 

Poole, William F., ‘‘Cotton Mather - 
and Salem Witchcraft,’’ North American 
Review, CVIII (1869), 337-397. (Defense 
of Mather against C. W. Upham.) 

Summers, Montague, The Geography of 
Witchcraft, New York, 1927. 

The History of Witchcraft and De- 
monology, New York, 1926. 

Tapley, Charles S., Rebecca Nurse, Saint 
but Witch Victim, Boston; 1930. 

Taylor, John M., The Witchcraft Delu- 
sion in Colonial Connecticut, 1647-1697, New 
York, 1908. 

Upham, Charles W., Salem Witchcraft 

and Cotton Mather, Morrisania, N.Y., 1869. 
(Reply to Poole’s defense.) 
Salem Witchcraft; with an Account 
of Salem Village, and a History of Opinions 
on Witchcraft and Kindred Subjects, Boston, 
1867, 2 vols. 

Winsor, Justin, “The Literature of 
Witchcraft in New England,” Proceedings 
of the American Antiquarian ao N.S. X 


(1895), 351-373- 


D. SECONDARY Works 


In addition to the items here listed, the student should consult Samuel E. Morison, 
Harvard College in the Seventeenth Century, chapters X, XI, and XIII, dealing with the 
teaching of mathematics, astronomy, physics, and medicine. 


Brasch, Frederick E., John Winthrop 
(1714-1779), America’s First Astronomer, and 
the Science of His Period, San Francisco, 
1916. 


*‘Newton’s First Critical Disciple 
in the American Colonies—John Win- 
throp, [Jr.],”’ in Sir Isaac Newton, 1727- 
1927, Baitimore, 1928, pp. 301-338. 


—— “The Royal Society of London 
and Its Influence upon Scientific Thought 
in the American Colonies,” Scientific 
Monthly, XX XIII (1931), 336-355, 448- 
469. 

Bronfenbrenner, Martha (Ornstein), 
The Role of the Scientific Societies in the Seven- 
teenth Century, New York, 1913. (A key 


§28 


book for the study of the influence of 
science on general thought.) 

Brown, Francis H., ‘“The Practice of 
Medicine in New England Before the 
Year 1700,” Bostonian Society Publications, 
VIII (1911), 93-120. 

Browne, Charles A., ‘‘Scientific notes 
from the books and letters of John Win- 
throp, jr.,”’ Isis, XI (1928), 325-342. 

Buck, Albert H., The Growth of Medi- 
cine from the Earliest Times to about 1800, 
New Haven, 1917. 

Fitz, Reginald H., “‘Zabdiel Boylston, 
Inoculator, and the Epidemic of Small- 
pox in Boston in 1721,” Johns Hopkins 
Hospital Bulletin, XXII (1911), 315-327. 

Forbes, Allyn B., “‘William Brattle and 
John Leverett, F. R. S.,” Publications 
of the Colonial Society of Massachusetts, 
XXVIII (1935), 222-224. 

Green, Samuel A., History of Medicine 
in Massachusetts, Boston, 1881. 

Hornberger, ‘Theodore, ‘‘American 
Puritanism and the Rise of the Scientific 
Mind,” unpublished dissertation, Uni- 
versity of Michigan, 1934. 

—— “The Date, the Source, and the 
Significance of Cotton Mather’s Interest 
in Science,” American Literature, VI (1935), 
413-420. 

—— “The Effect of the New Science 
upon the Thought of Jonathan Ed- 
wards,” American Literature, IX (1937), 
196-207. 

; ‘Puritanism and Science: The 
Relationship Revealed in the Writings 
of John Cotton,” New England Quarterly, 
X (1937), 503-515; 

“Samuel Johnson of Yale and 
King’s College. A Note on the Relation of 
Science and Religion in Provincial Amer- 
ica,” New England Quarterly, VIII (1935), 
378-397- 

“Science and the New World,” 
Catalogue of the Huntington Library (1937), 
pp. 3-18. (Refers especially to the 
Mathers and Winthrops.) 

“The Science of Thomas Prince,”’ 
New England Quarterly, TX (1936), 26- 


2 
i Jones, Richard F., Ancients and Moderns: 
A Study of the Background of the Battle of the 
Books, St. Louis, 1936. (A discussion of 
the rise and progress of experimental 
philosophy during the seventeenth cen- 


The Puritans 


tury in England. See also bibliography 
section V C above.) 

Jorgenson, Chester E., ““The New Sci- 
ence in the Almanacs of Ames and 
Franklin,’ New England Quarterly, VIII 
(1935), 555-561. 

Kincheloe, Isabel, ‘“‘Nature and the 
New England Puritan,” Americana, XX XI 
(1937), 569-588. 

Kittredge, George L., “Some Lost 
Works of Cotton Mather,” Proceedings of 
the Massachusetts Historical Society, XLV 
(1912), 418-479. (Important for the in- 
oculation controversy.) 

“Cotton Mather’s Election into 
the Royal Society,”’ Publications of the Co- 
lonial Society of Massachusetts, XIV (1913), 
81-114, 281-292. 

“Cotton Mather’s Scientific Com- 
munications to the Royal Society,’’ Pro- 
ceedings of the American Antiquarian Society, 
N.S. XXVI (1916), 18-57. 

Matthews, Albert, “Notes on Early 
Autopsies and Anatomical Lectures,” 
Publications of the Colonial Society of Massa- 
chusetts, XIX (1918), 273-290. 

Mood, Fulmer, ‘John Winthrop, Jr., 
on Indian Corn,” New England Quarterly, 
X (1937), 121-133. 

Morison, Samuel E., ‘““The Harvard 
School of Astronomy in the Seventeenth 
Century,” New England Quarterly, VII 
(1934), 3-24. 

Packard, Francis R., The History of 
Medicine in the United States before 1800, 
Philadelphia, 1gor. 

‘Thomas Prince, Scientist and Histo- 
rian,” Publications of the Colonial Society 
of Massachusetts, XXVIII (1935), 100- 
104. 

Russell, Gurdon W., Early Medicine and 
Early Medical Men in Connecticut, Hartford, 
1892. 

Steiner, Walter R., “Governor John 
Winthrop, Jr. of Connecticut as a Physi- 
cian,” Johns Hopkins Hospital Bulletin, 
XIV (1903), 294-302. 

—— ‘‘The Reverend Gershom Bul- 
keley, of Connecticut, an Eminent Cleri- 
cal Physician,” Johns Hopkins Hospital 
Bulletin, XVII (1906), 48-53. 

Stimson, Dorothy, ‘“‘Puritanism and 
the New Philosophy in Seventeenth Cen- 
tury England,” Bulletin of the Institute of 
the History of Medicine, 111 (1935), 321-334. 


Bibliographies 


Thoms, Herbert, ““The Beginnings of 
Obstetrics in America,” Yale Fournal 
of Biology and Medicine, TV (1932), 665- 
675. 

Vriets, Henry R., A Brief History of 
Medicine in Massachusetts, Boston, 1930. 
‘Some features of the History of 


829 


Medicine in Massachusetts during the 
colonial period, 1620-1770,” Isis, XXIII 
(1935), 389-405. 

White, Andrew D., A History of the 
Warfare of Science with Theology in Christen- 
dom, New York, 1896, 2 vols. (Interesting 
but not too trustworthy.) 


xX. PURITAN LIBRARIES, BOOKS, AND READING 


Omniverous readers, the cultivated Puritans collected libraries whenever their 
means allowed. Students of colonial history are now undertaking to examine inven- 
tories of libraries and estates, and are culling diaries and other source material in 
order to present a picture of colonial books and reading. 


[Adams, William,] ‘“‘Acct of Books y* 
William Adams put up to carry to Col- 
lege, Nov. 5, 1726,” Collections of the Mas- 
sachusetts Historical Society, fourth series, 
I (1852), 43, 44- 

Bacon, Edwin M., and Lyman H. 
Weeks, An Historical Digest of the Provin- 
cial Press [1689-1707], Boston, 1908. 

Bates, Albert C., ““Some Notes on Early 
Connecticut Printing,” Papers of the Bib- 
liographical Society of America, XXVII 
(1933), pt. I. 

Baxter, Joseph, “Catalogue of Books 
in his library,” Congregational Library, 
Boston (ca. 1745). 

Baxter, William T., ‘““Daniel Hench- 
man [1689-1761], A Colonial Book- 
seller,” Essex Institute Historical Collections, 
LXX (1934), 1-30. 

Belcher, Jonathan (1710-1776), Manu- 
script Commonplace Book in Harvard 
College Library. (Extracts from his read- 
ing during his college years.) 

Bowman, George E., ‘‘Governor 
Thomas Prence’s [sic] Will and Inventory, 
and the Records of His Death,” Mayflower 
Descendents, III (1901), 203-216. (A list 
of books is itemized to a value of more 
than £13.) 

Boynton, Henry W., Annals of American 
Bookselling, 1638-1850, London, 1932. 

Brayton, Susan S., ““The Library of an 
Eighteenth-Century Gentleman of Rhode 
Island,” New England Quarterly, VIII 
(1935), 277-283. 

Brigham, Clarence S., ““Harvard Col- 
lege Library Duplicates, 1682,’ Publica- 
tions of the Colonial Society of Massachusetts, 
XVIII (1917), 407-417. 

—— “History of Book Auctions in 


America,” Bulletin of the New York Public 
Library, XX XIX (1935), 55-90. 

Clapp, Thomas, Manuscript catalogue 
of books in the Yale Library, Yale Col- 
lege Library. (A list of over 700 books 
given by Jeremiah Dummer in 1714; 
over 400 given by Elihu Yale in 1718.) 

Cotton, Rowland, and Nathaniel Rog- 
ers, A Catalogue Of Curious and Valuable 
Books, Being the greatest part of the Libraries 
of the Reverend and Learned Mr. Rowland 
Cotton,...and Mr. Nathaniel Rogers... 
To be Sold by Auction, Boston, 1725. (Six 
hundred and ninety-five titles; unique 
copy in the Boston Public Library.) 

Curwin, George, Catalogue of the Great- 
est Part of the Library of the Reverend 
Mr. George Curwen [sic], Late of Salem... 
to be sold by auction, Boston, 1718. (Nearly 
600 titles; unique copy in Harvard Col- 
lege Library.) 

Dexter, Franklin B., ‘Early Private 
Libraries in New England,” Proceedings 
of the American Antiquarian Society, N.s. 
XVIII (1907), 135-147. 

—— “The First Public Library in New 
Haven,” Papers of the New Haven Colony 
Historical Society, VI (1900), 301-313. 
(Library of Samuel Eaton, 1658.) 

Dexter, Henry M., “Elder Brewster’s 
Library,” Proceedings of the Massachusetts 
Historical Society, XXV (1890), 37-85. 

Duniway, Clyde A., The Development of 
Freedom of the Press in Massachusetts, New 
York, 1906. 

Ernle, Rowland E., The Light Reading 
of our Ancestors, London, 1921. (Popular 
in treatment.) 

Evans, Evan A., Jr., Literary References 
in New England Diaries, 1700-1730, un- 


830 


published thesis in Harvard College Li- 
brary. 

Ford, Worthington C., The Boston Book 
Market, 1679-1700, Boston, 1917. 
Broadsides, Ballads, Gc. Printed in 
Massachusetis, 1639-1800, Boston, 1922. 
(Check list, with short introduction.) 

Gilman, D. C., “Bishop Berkeley’s 
Gifts to Yale College,’ New Haven Colony 
Historical Society Papers, 1 (1865), 146-170. 

- Green, Samuel A., John Foster, the 
Earliest American Engraver and the First 
Boston Printer, Boston, 1909. 

—— Ten Fac-simile Reproductions Relat- 
ing to New England, Boston, 1902. 

Ten Fac-simile Reproductions Relat- 
ing to Old Boston and Neighborhood, Boston, 
1gOl. 


Ten Fac-simile Reproductions Relat- 
ing to Various Subjects, Boston, 1903. 

Greenberg, Herbert, ““The Authen- 
ticity of the Library of John Winthrop 
the Younger,” American Literature, VIII 
(1937) 449-452. 

‘Hall, Howard J., ““T'wo BookéLists: 
1668 and 1728,” Publications of the Colonial 
Society of Massachusetts, XXIV (1923), 
64-71. 

Harris, J. Rendel, and S. K. Jones, The 
- Pilgrim Press, Cambridge, Eng., 1922. 

. Harvard University, Catalogus Librorum 
Bibliothecae Collegit Harvardiani, Boston, 
1723. (Iwo Continuatio published before 
1730.) 

Harvard University, Library of, ‘““Books 
given to the Library by John Harvard, 
Peter Bulkley, Sir Kenelme Digby, and 
Governor Bellingham,” Bibliographical 
Contributions, No. 27 (1888), 5-14. 

Herrick, C. A.,. ““The Early New-Eng- 
landers: What Did They Read?” re 
third series, IX (1918), 1-17. 

Howard, Leon, ‘Early American 
Copies of Milton,” Huntington Library Bul- 
letin, No. 7, 1935, pp. 169-179. 

—— “The Influence of Milton on Co- 
lonial American Poetry,” Huntington Li- 
brary Bulletin, No. 9, 1936, pp. 63-89. 

‘““Hubbard’s Narrative, 1677,” Colophon, 
I (1936), 456-457. 

Johnson, Thomas H., “Jonathan Ed- 
wards’ Background of Reading,” Publi- 
cations of the Colonial Society of Massachusetts, 
XXVIII (1935), 193-222. 


Kittredge, George L., “A Harvard 


The Puritans 


Salutatory Oration of 1662,” Publications 
of the Colonial Society of Massachusetts, 
XXVIII (1935), 1-24. (Analysis of the 
commonplace book of Elnathan Chauncy, 


Harvard A.B. 1661; a record of taste in 
reading and poetry.) 
Lee, Samuel, “The Library of... 


Mr. Samuel | Lee... Exposed...to Sale, 
Boston, 1693. (Unique copy in Boston 
Public Library. See also chapter VI, 
“The Earliest Book-Catalogue Printed 
in this Country, 1693,” in Samuel A. 
Green, Ten Fac-simile Reproductions Relat- 
ing to Old Boston and Neighborhood, Boston, 
1QOI.) 

Littlefield, George E., Early Boston 
Booksellers, 1642-1711, Boston, 1900. (Su- 
perseded by Worthington C. Ford, The 
Boston Book Market, q.v.) 

The Early Massachusetts Press, 
1638-1711, Boston, 1907, 2 vols. (To be 
used with care; very inaccurate.) 

McKay, George L., comp., “‘American 
Book Auction Catalogues, 1713-1934,” 
Bulletin of the New York Public Library, 
XXXIX (1935), 141-166. (Part I lists 
catalogues to 1800.) 

Matthews, Albert, “Knowledge of Mil- 
ton in Early New England,” Nation (New 
York), LXXXVII (1908), 624, 625, 
650. 

Mayflower Descendant, The: A Quarterly 
Magazine of Pilgrim Genealogy and History, 
Boston, 1899- current. (Often lists inven- 
tories of private libraries, or brief diary 
comments on reading.) 

Moody, Joshua, and Daniel Gookin, A 
Catalogue Of Rare and Valuable Books .. . of 
... Moodey, and... Gookin. ...,: Bestel, 
1718. (A list.of 780 items put up for auc- 
tion sale;. unique copy in the library of 
the American Antiquarian Society, Wor- 
cester, Mass.) 

Morison, Samuel E., ““The {ears of | 
George Mook: Medical Student, 1676,” 
Publications of the Colonial Society of Massa- 
chusetts, XXVIII (1935), 350-357. 

Morris, Edward P., “A Library of 
1742,” Yale University Library Gazette, IX 
(1935), 1-11. (Notes on a Yale Eibeery 
Catalogue of 1742.) 

Murdock, Kenneth B., ‘““The Puritans 
and the New Testament,” Publications of 
the Colonial Society of Massachusetis, XXV 
(1924), 239-243. (A denial that the Puri- 


Bibliographies 


tans used the Old Testament rather than 
the New.) — 

Norton, Arthur O., “Harvard Text- 
books and Reference Books of the Seven- 
teenth Century,” Publications of the Colonial 
Society of Massachusetts, XXVIII (1935), 
361-438. 

Pemberton, Ebenezer, A Catalogue Of 
Curious and Valuable Books, Boston, 1717. 
(A list of about a thousand items put up 
for auction sale, principally Pemberton’s 
library; unique copy in the New York 
Public Library.) 

Perry, Michael, “Inventory of the 
estate of Michael Perry, a Boston book- 
seller, taken a.p. 1700,” John Dunton’s 
. Letters, Boston, 1867, Appendix B, 
PP. 314-319. 

Potter, Alfred C., ““Catalogue of John 
Harvard’s Library,” Publications of the 
Colonial Society of Massachusetts, XXI 
(1920), 190-230. 

—— “The Harvard College Library, 
1723-1735, Publications of the Colonial 
Society of Massachusetts, XXV (1924), I-14. 

Prince, Thomas, Catalogue of The Amer- 
ican Portion of the Library of the Rev. Thomas 
Prince, ed. W. W. Whitmore, Boston, 1868: 

Robinson, Charles F., and Robin 
Robinson, “Three Early Massachusetts 
Libraries,”’ Publications of the Colonial So- 
ciety of Massachusetts, XXVIII (1935), 
107-175. (A list of 565 items from three 
seventeenth-century libraries.) 

Roden; Robert F., The Cambridge Press, 
1638-1692, New York, 1905. 

Salisbury, Stephen, “Early Books and 
Libraries,” Proceedings of the American Anti- 


quarian Society, N.s. V (1887-1888), 183- | 
BPS. 


Seybolt, Robert F., “Student Libraries 
at Harvard, 1763-1764,” Publications of 
the Colonial Society of Massachusetts, 
XXVIII (1935), 449-461. 

Thomas, Isaiah, The History of Printing 
in America, Worcester, Mass., 1810, 2 vols. 

Thompson, Lawrence, “‘Notes on Some 
Collectors in Colonial Massachusetts,” 
Colophon, n.s. II (1936), 82-100. 

Tuttle, Julius H., ““The Library of Dr. 


833 


William Ames,” Publications of the Colonial 
Society of Massachusetts, XTV (1913), 63-66. 
“Early New England Libraries”: 
Manuscript card catalogue in the library 
of the Massachusetts Historical Society, 
Boston. See “‘Early Libraries in New Eng- 
land,” Publications of the Colonial Society of 
Massachusetts, XIII (1912), 288-202. 
“The Libraries of the Mathers,” 
Proceedings of the American Antiquarian So- 
ciety, N.S. XX (1910), 269-356. 

Vail, Robert W. G., “Seventeenth 
Century American Book Labels,’ Ameri- 
can Book Collector, 1V (1933), 164-176. 

Wigglesworth, Michael, “Catalogue of 
Mr. Wigglesworth’s Books Taken Oct. 22, 
1705, in John W. Dean, Memoir of Rev. 
Michael Wigglesworth, 2nd ed., Albany, 
1871, Appendix III (pp. 151-152); re- 
printed from New England Historical and 
Genealogical Register, XVII (1863), 129 ff. 

Winship, George P., The Literature of the 
History of Printing in the United States, Lon- 
don, 1923. 

- “Old Auction Catalogues,” 
American Collector, IV (1927), 188-193. 

Winterich, John T., Early American 
Books and Printing, Boston, 1933. 

Winthrop, John, Jr., “Library of John 
Winthrop, Jr.,”? Catalogue of the New York 
Society Library, New York, 1850, pp. 491- 
505. 

Wright, Louis B., “The Purposeful 
Reading of Our Colonial Ancestors,” 
ELH (English Literary History), 1V (1937), 
85-111. (Emphasizes the general culture 
of Puritans as demonstrated in their read- 
ing.) 

Wright, Thomas G., Literary Culture in 
Early New England, 1620-1730, New ~ 


. Haven, 1920. (The best comprehensive 


survey of Puritan reading and book busi- 
ness; needs to be supplemented by subse- 
quent work done on the subject.) 

Wroth, Lawrence C., An American Book- 
shelf, 1755, Philadelphia, 1934. (An exam- 
ination of the books that might be found 
in the library of a cultivated gentleman 
in the mid-eighteenth century.) 

The Colonial Printer, New Y ork, 1931. 


XI. ARTS AND CRAFTS 


The Puritans were little concerned with aesthetic problems. They produced no 
sculpture or statuary; painting was confined to portrait likenesses. For many decades 
after the founding of New England, artistic creations — household necessities, textiles, 


832 


~The Puritans 


and decorations — were generally imported. The craftsmanship of the architects, 
cabinetmakers, and silversmiths became evident in larger centers as soon as money 
was plentiful enough to commission their services. The Puritans were by no means 
constitutionally incapable of displaying good taste, but because of their relative indif- 
ference to the arts they did not write critiques upon the subject. For further items 
that might have been listed here, see Section IV B 2. 


American Church Silver of the Seventeenth 
and Eighteenth Centuries, . . . Exhibited at the 
[Boston] Museum of Fine Arts, Introduc- 
tion by George N. Curtis, Boston, 1911. 

American Silver... Exhibited at the [Bos- 
ton| Museum of Fine Arts, Introduction by 
Richard T. H. Halsey, Boston, 1906. 

Ayars, Christine M., Contributions to the 
Art of Music in America by the Music In- 
dustries of Boston, 1640-1936, New York, 
1936. 

Bach, Richard F., ‘‘Early American 
Architecture and the Allied Arts: a Bib- 
liography,” Architectural Record, LIX 
(1926), 265-273, 328-334, 483-488, 525- 
532; LX (1926), 65-70; LXIII (1928), 
577-580; LXIV (1928), 70-72, 150-152, 
190-192. 

Bagg, Ernest N., “The Psalms, Tune 
Books and Music of the Forefathers,” 
Proceedings of the Bostonian Society, V (Jan., 
1904), 38-57. 

Bayley, Frank W., Five Colonial Artists 
of New England, Boston, 1929. (Reproduc- 
tions of portraits of many colonial 
leaders.) 

Little Known Early American Por- 
trait Painters, Boston, n.d. 

Belknap, Henry W., Artists and Crafts- 
men of Essex County, Massachusetts, Salem, 
1927. 

Bigelow, Francis H., Historic Silver of 
the Colonies and Its Makers, New York, 
1Q17. 

Bolton, Charles K., The Founders; Por- 
traits of Persons born abroad who came to the 
Colonies . . . [to] 170r, Boston, 1919-1926, 
3 vols. 

Bolton, Ethel S., and Eva J. Coe, Amer- 
ican Samplers, Boston, 1921. 

Briggs, Martin S., The Homes of the Pil- 
grim Fathers in England and America, 1620- 
1685, London, 1932. (Illustrated in de- 
tail.) 

Caffin, C. H., The Story of American 
Painting; the Evolution of Painting in Amer- 
wca from Colonial Times to the Present, 
London, 1907. 


Chandler, Joseph E., The Colonial 
House, New York, 1916. 

Coburn, Frederick W., “‘Artistic Puri- 
tans,’ American Magazine of Art, XXI 
(1930), 481-496. (A description of por- _ 
traits of the Puritan era.) 

Colonial Dames of America, National 
Society of the, Old Houses in the South 
County of Rhode Island, Providence, 
1933- 

Crouch, Joseph, Puritanism and Art, An 
Inquiry into a Popular Fallacy, London, 
IgIO. 

Dow, George F., The Arts and Crafts in 
New England, 1704-1775, Topsfield, Mass., 
1927. 

Dunlap, William, History of the Rise and 
Progress of the Arts of Design in the United 
States, New York, 1834, 2 vols.; reprinted 
Boston, 1918, 3 vols. 

Eberlein, Harold D., The Architecture of 
Colonial America, Boston, 1915; 1927. 

Eberlein, Harold D., and Abbot Mc- 
Clure, The Practical Book of Early American 
Arts and Crafts, Philadelphia, 1916. 

Ensko, Stephen G. C., American Silver- 
smiths and Their Marks, New York, 1927. 

“Fabrics, Clothing and Tools Pur- 
chased in England, in 1639-1642, for 
Governor George Wyllys of Hartford, 
Connecticut,” Old Time New England, 
XXVI (1936), 142-145. 

Foote, Henry W., ““Mr. Smibert Shows 
His Pictures, March, 1730,’ New England 
Quarterly, VIII (1935), 14-28. (“John 
Smibert was the first professional portrait- 
painter to settle in Boston.’’) 

Forbes, Hariette M., Gravestones of Early 
New England And the Men Who Made Them, 
1653-1800, Boston, 1927. 

French, Hollis, A List of Early American 
Silversmiths and their Marks, New York, 
1QI7. 

Haddon, Rawson, A Tourist’s Guide to 
Connecticut, Waterbury, 1923. 

Isham, Norman M., Early American 
Houses, Boston, 1928. 

Isham, Norman M., and Albert F. 


Bibliographies 


Brown, Early Connecticut Houses, Provi- 
dence, 1900. 
Early Rhode Island Houses, Provi- 
dence, 1895. 

Jones, Edward Alfred, The Old Silver of 
American Churches, Letchworth, Eng., 
1913. 

Kelly, John F., The Early Domestic 
Architecture of Connecticut, New Haven, 


1924. 


Architectural Guide for Connecticut, 
Hartford, 1936. 

Kettell, Russell H., ed., Early American 
Rooms, 1650-1858: A Consideration of the 
Changes in Style between the Arrival of the 
Mayflower and the Civil War in the Regions 
Originally Settled by the English and the 
Dutch, Portland, Me., 1936. 

Kimball, Sidney F., Domestic Architec- 
ture of the American Colonies and of the Early 
Republic, New York, 1922; 1927. (Author- 
itative and standard.) 

Knittle, Rhea M., Early American Glass, 
New York, 1927. 

Langdon, William C., Everyday Things 
in American Life, 1607-1776, New York, 
1937- 

Lee, Cuthbert, Early American Portrait 
Painters, New Haven, 1929. 

Lockwood, Luke V., Colonial Furniture 
in America, New York, 1921, 2 vols. 

Lyon, Irving W., The Colonial Furniture 
of New England, Boston, 1891. 

McClellan, Elizabeth, Historic Dress in 
America, 1607-1800, Philadelphia, 1904. 
New ed., New York, 1937, with title 
History of American Costume, 1607-1870. 

Mixer, Knowlton, Old Houses of New 
England, New York, 1927. (Pleasant, but 
unreliable in details.) 


833 


Morgan, John H., Early American Paint- 
ers, New York, 1921. 

Northend, Mary H., Historic Homes of 
New England, Boston, 1914. 

Nutting, Wallace, Furniture of the Pil- 
grim Century, 1620-1720, Boston, 1921. 

Old Time New England, Boston, 1910—- 
current. Published by the Society for the 
Preservation of New England Antiquities. 
(Repository for articles on New England 
antiquities and monuments; the student 
of Puritan culture should search its pages 
carefully.) 

Poor, Alfred E., Colonial Architecture of 
Cape Cod, Nantucket and Martha’s Vineyard, 
New York, 1932. 

Rawson, Marion N., Handwrought An- 
cestors: The Story of Early American Shops and 
Those Who Worked T herein, New York, 1936. 

Robinson, A. G., Old New England 
Doorways, New York, 1920. 

Old New England Houses, New 
York, 1920. 

Seventeenth-Century Painting in New Eng- 
land. A Catalogue of an Exhibition held at the 
Worcester Art Museum in Collaboration with 
the American Antiquarian Society, Fuly and 
August, 1934, ed. Louisa Dresser, Worces- 
ter, 1935. 

Singleton, Esther, The Furniture of Our 
Forefathers, New York, 1901, 2 vols. 

Stow, Charles M., Seventeenth and Eight- 
eenth Century American Silver, New York, 
1934. 

Vanderpoel, Emily N., American Lace 
and Lace-Makers, New Haven, 1924. 

Whitmore, William H., “The Early 
Painters and Engravers of New England,” 
Proceedings of the Massachusetts Historical So- 
ciety, IX (1867), 197-216. 


XII. BIBLIOGRAPHY 


Current publications on the Puritan period are listed in the issues of Jsis, in the 
quarterly bibliographies in American Literature, and the annual bibliographies in 
Publications of the Modern Language Association and the New England Quarterly, in the 
bulletins of the Modern Humanities Research Association, and in the Writings on 
American History (edited by Grace G. Griffin). The Summaries of Theses, published 
annually by several of the larger universities of the country, are very useful. 

The following list contains the principal bibliographies of source material for the 
period. Several secondary works listed contain further, bibliographical material. 


Allison, William H., Inventory of Un- 
published Material for American Religious 
History in Protestant Church Archives and 
Other Repositories, Washington, 1910, 


Ayer, Mary F., Check-List of Boston 
Newspapers, 1704-1780, Boston, 1907. (Bib- 
liographical notes by Albert Matthews.) 

Beers, Henry P., Bibliographies in Ameri- 


534 
can History: Guide to Materials for Research, 
New York, 1938. 3 

Bibliotheca Americana: Catalogue of the 
John Carter Brown Library in Brown Uni- 
versity, Providence, 1919. (Not completed. 
Vol. III issued in 1931.) 

Bradford, Thomas L., and Stanley V. 
Henkels, The Bibliographer’s Manual of 
American History, Philadelphia, 1907- 
1910, 5 vols. (For state and county his- 
tories.) 

Brigham, Clarence S., “‘Bibliography 
of American Newspapers: Massachu- 
setts,” Proceedings of the American Anti- 
quarian Society, XXV (1915), 193-293, 
398-501. (The definitive check list; for 
other states consult Vols. XXIII-XXX, 
XXXII, XXXIV, XXXV, XXXVII.) 

Cambridge History of American Literature, 
The. (See in section VI B. Bibliographies 
covering Puritan New England, I, 363- 
442, 452-467.) 

Channing, Edward, Albert B. Hart, 
and Frederick J. Turner, Guide to the 
Study and Reading of American History, 
Boston, revised edition, 1912. 

Evans, Charles, American Bibliography, 
1639-1820, Chicago, 1903-1934, 12 vols. 
(The most exhaustive; compiled by years, 
well indexed.) 

Flagg, Charles A., A Guide to Massa- 
chusetts Local History, Salem, 1907. 
“Reference List on Connecticut 
Local History,” New York State Library 
Bulletin, No. 53, Albany, 1900. 

Holmes, Thomas J., Increase Mather: A 
Bibliography of His Works, Cleveland, 1931, 
2 vols. (A superlative work; contains sum- 
maries and extracts from the volumes.) 

Griffin, Appleton P. C., ed., ““Bibliog- 
raphy of American Historical Societies,” 
American Historical Association Annual Re- 
port, 1905, Vol. II. (Lists contents of 
' publications of historical societies from 
1792 to 1905; after 1905 consult Grace G. 
Griffin, Writings on American History, 
Washington, 1906-— current.) 


The Puritans 


Henry E. Huntington Library and Art 
Gallery, American Imprints, 1648-1797, in 
the Huntington Library, Cambridge, 1933. 

Larned, Josephus N., The Literature of 
American History, A Bibliography. Boston, 
1902. 

Mode, Peter G., Source Book and Bibli- 
ographical Guide for American Church History, 
Menasha, Wisconsin, 1921. 

Otis, William B., American Verse, 1625- 
1607, New York, 1909. (Valuable bibli- 
ography.) 

Sabin, Joseph, Bibliotheca Americana: A 
Dictionary of Books Relating to America, from 
its Discovery to the Present Time, New York, 
1867-1936. 29 vols. (Trustworthy and 
exhaustive; later volumes continued by 
Wilberforce Eames.) 

Stillwell, Margaret B., Incunabula and 
Americana, 1450-1800: A Key to Biblio- 
graphical Study, New York, 1931. (Im- 
portant check lists.) 

Trumbull, James H., List of Books 
Printed in Connecticut, 1709-1800, Hartford, 
1904. 

Waldman, Milton, Americana; the Litera- 
ture of American History, New York, 1925. 

Walker, Williston, The Creeds and Plat- 
forms of Congregationalism, New York, 
1893. (The principal documents in New 
England ecclesiastical disputes, with full 
bibliographies for the background of each 
episode.) 

Watkins, George T., American Typo- 
graphical Bibliography, being a list of brief 
titles of books and pamphlets relating to the 
history of Printing in America, Indianapolis, 
1808. | 


Bibliography of Printing in the United 
States, Boston, 1906. 

Watt, Robert, Bibliotheca Britannica, Ed- . 
inburgh, 1824, 4 vols. (Often extremely 
useful, particularly the subject-index of 
the last two volumes.) 

Wegelin, Oscar, Early American Poetry, 
second edition revised and enlarged, New 


York, 1930, 2 vols. (Vol. I, 1650-1799.) 


25 INDEX 


Adam, Melchior, German Protestant di- 
vine, 498-499. 

Adams, John, 277, 762. 

Adams, John Quincy, 46r. 

Adams, Samuel, 277. 

Adams, William, minister of Dedham, g. 

Addison, Joseph, 76; on poetry, 78, 668 
and note. 

Aesop, 697. 

Agrarianism, defended in New England, 
257. 

Agriculture, in New England, 377, 444; 
possibilities of, described by Bradford, 
382-383; by Smith, 398-399; by Lech- 
ford, 401-402; by Danckaerts, 411; 
produce and diet,. 388, 437; domestic 
animals, 383, 401. 

Allen, James, minister of Boston, 367. 

Allerton, Isaac, Pilgrim, 126, 765. 

Allin, John, minister of Dedham, 87; 
co-author of Defence, 118; preaches at 
Cambridge, 142. 

Almanacs, 350, 733; bibliography of, 
808-809; of science in, 825-826. 

Alsted, Johann Heinrich, German Prot- 
estant theologian, 47 n. 

Ames, William, English Puritan theolo- 
gian, 291, 491, 552, 710, 7773 impor- 
tance in America, 47 n.; on prose style, 
66-67. 

Anabaptists, see Baptists. 

Anaxagoras, 22 n. 

Andrewes, Lancelot, Anglican bishop, 
478, 480, 777; prose style of, 69-70, 
666. 


Andros, Sir Edmund, governor of New 
England, 243, 246; his taxes protested, 
257; opposed by Moody, 367. 

Anglicanism, 208, 367, 770-771; Puritan 
origin in, 5-6; tenets of, common to 
Puritanism, 7-11, 88; divergencies 
from Puritanism, 41-55, 86; opposed 
by Mayhew, 277. 

Anglicans, 165, 178, 184, 185, 394, 442, 
695, 765; objections to Quakers, 11; 
characteristics of prose style, 68-70; 
celebration of Christmas, 393. 

Animals, in New England, wild, 383, 401; 
see Agriculture. 

Antinomianism, 10, 14-15, 84, 156-157, 
160, 185, 227, 460; objections to, by 
Willard, 36 n.; by Shepard, 118; by 
Winthrop, 126; Winthrop’s account of, 
129-143. 

Apprenticeship, 384, 387. 


Aquinas, Saint Thomas, 26, 35 n., 235. 
Arabella (Arbella), the, 126, 149, 471, 768. 
Architecture, 387-388, 394. 

Aristides, 22. 

Aristocracy, defined by Wise, 268. 

Aristophanes, 22. 

Aristotle, 31, 689, 706, 721, 729; scho- 
lastic discipline of, 28; grudge against, 
by Ramists, 33, 74; syllogisms,-33-34; 
quoted, 263, 267. 

Arts and crafts, Puritan, bibliography, 
831-833; see Architecture; Manners. 

Ashurst, Henry, 743, 744, 783. 

Assistants, court of, see Magistrates. 

Augustine, Saint, 230. 


Bacon, Francis, inductive method of, 28; 
influence on prose style, 666 n. 
Balaam, Alexander, English merchant, 


743, 783- 

Ball, John, English prelate, 87; reply to, 
by Shepard and Allin, 118-122. 

Banking, see Commerce. 

Baptists, 15, 139-140, 160, 185, 225, 227, 
335» 442, 768. 

Barlow, Joel, 552. 

Barnard, John, minister of Marblehead, 
193; biographical sketch, 270; Throne 
Established, 270-276; on poetry and 
style, 556. 

Bartas, Guillaume de Salluste du, favorite 
of Puritans, 546, 548, 561. 

Bathing, 388. 

Baxter, Richard, English nonconformist 
divine, 178, 714. 

Bay Psalm Book, 77, 548, 666, 668, 669; 
bibliographical account of, 555-556; 
selections from, 556—561, 670-672. 

Bede, surnamed ‘““The Venerable,” 679. 

Bedford, Arthur, English Protestant 
scholar, 686. 

Bees, account of hiving, by Dudley, 748- 
759- 

Behn, Aphra, 423. 

Belcher, Jonathan, governor of Massa- 
chusetts, interest in literature, 76. 

Belcher, Joseph, minister of Dedham, 
425. 

Belisarius, 354. 

Bellomont, Earl of, see Coote. 

Beverages, 2, 383, 420, 421, 442; drink- 
ing and drunkenness, 392-393, 768; 
Danckaerts’ comments on, 410. 

Bible, the, Puritan dependence on, 4, 10, 
26, 41-57, 66, 79> 182, 187, 381; 


835 


836 


Geneva version of, 68; King James 
version of, 68. 

Biographies and letters, Puritan, selec- 
tions from, 465-544; discussion of, 459- 
465; bibliography, 811-815. 

Blackmore, Sir Richard, favorite of Puri- 
tans, 668, 687, 781. 

Blackwall, Thomas, English scholar, 76 
and note, 689, 781. 

Blank verse, see Poetry. 

Blaxton (or Blackstone), William, early 
settler, 149. 

Blowers, Thomas, 
448, 449, 776. i 

Bodin, Jean, French political economist, 
QII. 

Bodley, Sir Thomas, English diplomat 
and scholar, 501. 

Body of Liberties, 226; codification of, 385- 
386. 

Boethius, 262. 

Books and reading, see Libraries. 

Boston Latin School, 141, 334, 635, 696- 
697. 

Boyle, Robert, 423, 733, 740; influence 
on prose style, 666 n.; letter to, from 
Leonard Hoar, 742-744. 

Boylston, Zabdiel, physician of Boston, 
biographical sketch, 762; supports in- 
oculation, 737; member of Royal So- 
ciety, 762; selection, 763-764. 

Bracton, Henry de, English jurist, 423. 

Bradford, Andrew, American printer, 
689. 

Bradford, John, Protestant{martyr, 119. 

Bradford, William, governor of Plymouth, 
485; biographical sketch, 90-91; His- 
tory, 82-83, 87-89, 90, gI-117; on 
style, 74, 666-667; on farming in New 
England, 382-383. 

Bradstreet, Anne, the ‘“Tenth Muse,” 
391, 5523 biographical sketch, 561-562; 
poetry selections, 562-579. 

Bradstreet, Samuel, physician of Boston, 
631; almanac poem, 632. 

Bradstreet, Simon, governor of Massa- 
chusetts, 150, 512, 561, 774. 

Brattle, Thomas, merchant of Boston, 
24 n.; biographical sketch, 758; Delu- 
sion, 736, 758, 758-762; wills organ to 
church, 394 n., 758; interest in science, 
734, 758. 

Brattle, William, minister of Cambridge, 
203 elected to Royal Society, 734. 

Brewster, William, Plymouth founder, 83, 
88, 90, 103; mourned by Bradford, 112— 
113; sketch of, by Bradford, 113-116. 

Brigden, Zechariah, of Stonington, Con- 
necticut, 732 n. 

Brown, Thomas (“Tom”), English sati- 
rist, 687. 


minister of Beverly, 


The Puritans 


Bucer, Martin, German theologian, 165. 

Buckingham, Thomas, minister of Hart- 
ford, 425. 

Bulkeley, Gershom, of Connecticut, 680. 

Bulkeley, Peter, minister of Concord, 133; 
theories of government, 190. 

Bulkley, John, minister of Colchester, bio- 
graphical sketch, 680; preface to Wol- 
oe Meditations, 681-684; on style, 

69. 

Bundling, 387. 

Bunyan, John, 423, 461. 

Burial customs, 391. 

Burroughs, Jeremiah, English divine, 
178, 770. 

Butler, Samuel, English satirist, 687. 

Buxtorf, Johann, German Protestant 
theologian, 670, 781. 

Byles, Mather, minister of Boston, 552; 
biographical sketch, 662; Hymn, 663; 
satire on style, 660, 689-694. 


Calef, Robert, writer on witchcraft, 270, 


730- 
Calvin, John, metaphysics of, 32. 
Calvinism, 30 n., 36 n.; modified in New 
England, 189-190. 

Calvinists, 24, 88, 229; and Ramists, 32— 
33; distinguished from Puritans, 32. 
Cambridge, Massachusetts, 118, 128, 133, 

142; Danckaerts’ visit to, 408-409; 
Dunton’s ““Ramble” to, 422-425. 
Camden, William, 547. 
Cape Cod, Massachusetts, 99-100, 102, 


397, 404, 409-410. : 
Cartwright, ‘Thomas, Puritan theologian, 


209, 491, 777- 

Carver, John, governor of Plymouth, gr, 
102-105. 

Casaubon, Isaac, 168. 

Catholicism, Puritan hatred of, 8, g-10, 
85. 

Cato, 22. 

Cattle raising, see Agriculture. 

Catullus, 29. 

Chadderton, Lawrence, 777. 

Chandler, Samuel, minister of Glouces- 
terj7e: 

Charles I, king of England, 195, 203, 277, 

8 


399. 

Charles II, king of England, poem on, 
by Wolcott, 659-662. 

Charlestown, Massachusetts, 139, 142, 
151, 398, 409, 414, 421; settled by 
Winthrop, 126, 150. 

Chauncy, Charles, president of Harvard 
College, 699, 707, 708; biographical 
sketch, 704-705; theory of rhetoric, 
666; Commencement Sermon, 705-707. 

Chauncy, Charles, minister of Boston, 
680. 


Index 


Chauncy, Elnathan, physician of Boston, 


23. 

Chauncy, Nathaniel, minister of Hatfield, 
37 2. 

Cheever, Ezekiel, schoolmaster of Boston, 
270, 635, 697, 721-722; elegy on, by 
Mather, 722-724. 

Chelmsford, Massachusetts, verses on, by 
Tompson, 640. 

Cheyne, George, English physician, 757. 

Christmas, Puritan dislike of, 393. 

Church membership, necessary for fran- 
chise, 381-382. 

Church of England, see Anglicanism. 

Cicero, 676-677, 698, 702, 723. 

Clark, John, physician of Boston, 387 n. 

Clark, William, of Boston, 394. 

Clothing, 388. 

Cobbet, Thomas, minister of Ipswich, 


246. 

Coddington, William, governor of Rhode 
Island, 133. 

Coit, Joseph, deacon of New London, 
448, 776. 

Coke, Sir Edward, 214, 423. 

Colet, John, 21. 

Collier, Jeremy, 392 n. 

Colman, Benjamin, minister of Boston, 
270, 335, 758; on wit, 392 and note; 
on drunkenness, 393; Life, by Turell, 
536-541; visits London, 536-539; sup- 
ports inoculation, 737. 

Comets, description of, by Williams, 745- 
747: 

Commencements, as holidays, 393. 
Commerce and banking, 384-385, 396- 
400; described by Danckaerts, 411. 
Congregationalism, 193, 291; Cotton on, 

208; Wise’s Vindication, 257-269. 

Congregationalists, 86, 87, 178, 192, 410. 

Conscience, cause of, see Toleration. 

Coote, Richard, Earl of Bellomont, 243. 

te. theory, in New England, 
732- 

Corlet, ‘lijah, schoolmaster of Cam- 
bridge, 401, 722,.723, 701. 

Cornbury, Lord, see Hyde. 

Coryate, Thomas, English traveler, 174. 

Cotton, John, minister of Boston, 21-22, 
50, 79, 127, 160,162; 204, 282; 280, 
291, 334, 424, 459, 492, 510, 549-550, 
553; biographical sketch, 207-209; 
selections, 209-214, 314-334; economic 
theories of, 5 n., 183, 187, 209- 
210, 212-214; on reason and nature, 
24-26, 53; follower of Ramus, 36; on 
the Puritan ideal, 61; prose style of, 
70-71, 3145 literary theories, 73-74, 
666; on history, 82-83, 85; debate with 
Williams, 186, 479; Williams’ attack 
on, 216-224; on dancing, 411; sup- 


837 


ports Mrs. Hutchinson, 129-136; on 
science, 729-732. 

Cotton, John, of Hampton, 414, 7743 
Dunton’s visit to, 422-425. 

Cotton, Maria, daughter of the first 
John Cotton, 334. 

Cotton, Seaborn, minister of Hampton, 
424. 

Courts, see Legal administration. 

Covenant theology, defined, 57-59. 

Cowley, Abraham, 77, 270, 423. 

Cranfield, Edward, lieutenant-governor 
of New Hampshire, opposed by 
Moody, 367. 

Crashaw, Richard, 546, 650. 

Crime, see Punishments. 

Cromwell, Oliver, 47, 394; toleration for 
ates 15~-16; on predestination, 282— 
283. 

Crops, see Agriculture. 

rEstie George, minister of Salem, 


392 
Glee, ‘Timothy, president of Yale, 
392 n. 


Danckaerts, Jasper, Dutch traveler, 774; 
biographical sketch, 403-404; Journal, 
404-411; visit to Eliot, 407-408; to 
Cambridge, 408-409. 

Danforth, Samuel, minister of Roxbury, 
710; biographical sketch, 738; poetry 
of, 550-551; interest in science, 732- 
733» 738-739: 

Dante, 22. 

Darley, Sir Richard, of Maulshine. Eng- 
land, 118. 

Darwin, Charles, 28. 

Davenant, Sir William, 77. 

Davenport, John, minister of New Haven, 
87, 133, 135, 724, 767; theories of gov- 
ernment, 190-191. 

Decorations, in New England houses, 
387, 388. 

Deerfield, Massachusetts, ‘‘dignifying the 
seats,” 380-381. 

Deism, tendency toward, in later Puri- 
tanism, 733. 

Deists, as followers of Newton, 733. 

Democracy, Hooker misquoted on, 291; 
Puritan opposition to, 209-212, 256- 
269, 384. 

Demosthenes, 677. 

Denison, Dorothy, 462; courted by Sew- 
all, 518-520. 

Dees John, English critic, on style, 

n 


76 n. 

Derham, William, 754, 783. 

Descartes, René, phicephical system of, 
28-29. 

Diaries, see Biographies. 

Digby, Sir Kenelm, 740. 


838 


Diodorus Siculus, 168, 174. 

Dionysius Halicarnassensis, 168. 

Divorces, see Marriage customs. 

Donne, John, 60, 546, 548; on true 
knowledge, 8, 25; on nature, 8-9; 
prose style of, 68—70, 666. 

Dorchester, Massachusetts, 139, 162, 243, 
334, 398, 491, 492, 493- 

Douglass, William, physician of Boston, 
387; opposes inoculation, 737. 

Downame, George, English commen- 
tator, 30 n., 34. 

Downing, Emmanuel, 468. 

Drama, Puritan view of, 394 n. 

Draud, Georg, 711, 782. 

Drinking, see Beverages. 

Dryden, John, 76, 423, 548, 668. 

Dudley, Joseph, governor of Massachu- 
setts, 243, 389, 747- 

Dudley, Paul, chief justice of Massachu- 
setts, biographical sketch, 747; selec- 
tions, 747—750; interest in science, 734, 


747: 

Dudley, Thomas, governor of Massachu- 
setts, \127, 128,133, 150,, 163, 561; 
opposes Mrs. Hutchinson, 129-133; 
biographical sketch, 765—766. 

Dummer, Richard, assistant, 133. 

Dunster, Henry, president of Harvard, 
23, 700, 701; revises Bay Psalm Book, 


559. 
Dunton, John, bookseller of Boston, 250; 
biographical sketch, 413; Letters, 414- 


425- 
Duport, James, 704, 781. 
Dutch Reformed Church, 403. 
Dwight, Timothy, 552. 


Easterbrooks (Estabrook), Joseph, min- 
ister of Concord, 17. 

Economic theories, Puritan, see Com- 
merce; Trades; Government. 

Education, Puritan, selections illustrat- 
ing, 700-727; discussion of, 695-700; 
teachers’ salaries, 697; curriculum, 
697-699; Eliot’s method of, 500; the 
college established, 698; tuition, 699; 
bibliography, 821-823; see Learning. 

Edwards, Jonathan, minister of North- 
ampton, 78, 288, 453, 548; Calvinism 
of, 30 n., 550. 

Elections sermons, artillery: Mitchell’s, 
237-242; Oakes’, 350-367; Moody’s, 
367-369; Massachusetts: Stoughton’s, 
243-246; Hubbard’s, 247-250; Wil- 
lard’s, 250-256; Barnard’s, 270-276; 
election sermons defined, 792. 

Eliot, John, minister of Roxbury, 291, 
424; biographical sketch, 774; Danck- 
aerts’ visit to, 407-408; "Mather’s Life 
of, 83, 497-511; early years, 497-500; 


The Puritans: 


family government, 500-501; way of 
preaching, 501-502; as evangelist, 
502-508; death, 508-511; as author, 
555; the Indian Bible, 774. 

Elizabethan Settlement, the, 6. 

Emerson, Ralph Waldo, 461, 733. 

Endecott, John, governor of Massachu- 

_ setts, 126, '739, 765, 775; at Merry 
Mount, 108-109; elected member of 
standing council, 133. 

England, Church of, see Anglicanism. 

Episcopalianism, see Anglicanism. 

Erasmus, 21, 172, 665, 673, 697, 712. 

Euripides, 699. 

Eusebius, 172. 

Euston, Edward, organist in Boston, 
teaches dancing, 411. 

Evelyn, John, 733. 

Eyre, John, of Boston, 347. 


Fabius Maximus, 229. 

Familists, 160, 227. 

Farming, see Agriculture. 

Farnaby, Thomas, 665. 

Federal theology, see Covenant theology. 

Fénelon, 76. 

Fiennes, William, first viscount Saye and 
Sele, 208; Cotton’s letter to, 209-212. 

Fitch, Elizabeth, daughter of James 
Fitch, 390. 

Fitch, James, minister of Norwich, fol- 
lower of Ramus, 34-35; First Principles, 
38 n.; objections to florid funeral ser- 
mons, 391. 

Florio, John, 665. 

Flynt, Josiah, minister of Dorchester, 
707; scientific theories of, 38 n.; letter 
to, from Hoar, 708-714. 

Food, see Agriculture. 

Foxe, John, 164, 768. 

Franklin, Benjamin, 425, 689, 733. 

Fraunce, Abraham, 30 n. 

Frontier, effects of, 17. 

Fuller, Samuel, Pilgrim deacon, 99. 

Fuller, ‘Thomas, Anglican historian, 172. 

Funerals, Puritan practice regarding, 391. 


Furniture, 383-384, 388. 


Galen, 386. 

Galileo, 681 and note, 733. 

Games, see Sports and diversions. 

Gardiner’s Island, 448, 776. 

Gassendi, Pierre, French scientist, 721, 
733, 782. 

Geree, John, English author, on Puritan 
style, 65. 

Gerrish, Samuel, of Boston, 449. 

Gesner, Conrad, Swiss scholar, 711, 782. 

Gibbons, Edward, deputy, 149. 

Goodwin, Thomas, independent divine, 


938,773. 


Index 


Gookin, Daniel, major-general, on style, | 


75, 666. 
Gosnold, Bartholomew, English voyager, 


100. 

Government, Puritan theories of, selec- 
tions illustrating, 194-280; discussed, 
181-194; bibliography, 792-798. 

Great Awakening, the, 3, 17; opposed 
by Mayhew, 277. 

Greek, study of, 696, 697, 701. 

Green, Joseph, minister of Salem Village, 

| biographical sketch, 447; Duary, 380, 
448-450. 

Gregory of Nazianzus, Saint, 494, 686. 

Grew, Nehemiah, English botanist, 423. 

Gridley, Joshua, American publisher, 
689. 

Guardian, The, 76. 


Hakluyt, Richard, 395. 

Hale, Sir Matthew, 423. 

Half-way covenant, 237, 334, 778. 
Halifax, George Savile, first marquis of, 


70. 
Hall, Joseph, English bishop, 714. 
Halley, Edmund, English astronomer, 


733: 

Harlackenden, Roger, assistant, epitaph 
on, 630-631. 

Harvard, John, gift to Harvard College, 


A22. ; 

Harvard College, 66, 162, 163, 698; early 
description of, 701-704; rules govern- 
ing student conduct, 702-703; curricu- 
lum of, 698-700, 703-704, 729; com- 
mencement theses, 24 and note, 25, 
699; science taught at, 27, 733-734; 
visited by Danckaerts, 408-409; scho- 
lastic method taught at, 28; mentioned 
in Mather’s sermon, 347-348. 

Hawthorne, Nathaniel, 461, 722. 

Haynes, John, governor of Massachusetts, 
128, 766. 

Hebrew, taught at Harvard, 704. 

Heereboord, Adrian, 733. 

Heinsius, Daniel, Dutch scholar, 263. 

Helmont, Jan Baptista van, 23. 

Herbert, George, 650; quoted, 62. 

Herodotus, 167, 168. 

Herrick, Robert, 546; poetry read by 
Puritans, 699. 

Hesiod, 21, 698, 699; quoted by Barnard, 
a2 Ni. 

Heylin, Peter, 165, 170, 172, 768. 

Hickes, George, dean of Worcester, 11. 

Hicks, John, of Salem, 450. 

Higginson, Francis, minister of Salem, 
biographical sketch, 122-123; New 
Englands Plantation, 86-87, 123-125. 

Hildersham, Arthur, Puritan divine, 495, 


778. 


839 


Hingham, Massachusetts, 139, 189. 

History, Puritan theory of, selections il- 
lustrating, go-179; discussion of, 81- 
90; bibliography, 785-792. 

Hoar, Leonard, president of Harvard 
College, 699; biographical sketch, 707- 
708; selections, 708-714, 742-744. 

Hobbes, Thomas, 667. 

Holidays, 393, 777- 

Holyoke, Edward, president of Harvard 
College, 270. 

Homer, 497, 682, 685, 699; quoted by 
Barnard, 272 n. 

Hooker, Richard, Anglican divine, 59, 
60, 666; Ecclesiastical Polity discussed, 
41-47, 478, 480; Puritan opinion of, 47. 

Hooker, Thomas, minister of Hartford, 
79, 118, 122, 127, 133, 208, 209, 494, 
498; biographical sketch, 290-291; se- 
lections, 292-314, 672-673; eloquence 
of, 137, 282-283, 291; Mather’s ac- 
count of, 336; theories of society, 188; 
of history, 85; of spiritual warfare, 283, 
287, 292-301; of education, 12 and 
note, 13; of grace, 39-40, 54-56; of 
nature and reason, 50-53; of rapture, 
60-62; of prose style, 65, 67, 68, 666; 
death recorded by Winthrop, 142; by 
Mather, 493-494. 

Hopkins, Edward, governor of Connect- 
icut, 140. 

Hopkins, John, English writer, 453, 555. 

Horace, 21, 546, 682, 698; quoted by 
Bulkley, 683. 

Horses, see Agriculture. 

Houses and housing, see Architecture. 

Howe, John, English Puritan, 334. 

Howell, James, English pamphleteer, 
167, 176. 

Howland, John, Pilgrim, gg. 

Hubbard, William, minister of Ipswich, 
81, 82, 192, 246; biographical sketch, 
246; Happiness of a People, 247-250; 
theories of beauty, 64, 247-250; of 
magistrates’ duties, 18; of reason, 24. 

Hull, Hannah, wife of Sewall, 376. 

Hull, John, mint-master, 376, 384, 462; 
Willard’s funeral sermon on, 369-371. 

Humanism, Puritan, 19-41. 

Humfry, John, assistant, 210. 

Hutchinson, Anne, Antinomian leader, 
10, 15, 16, 22, 194, 291, 459, 732n., 766, 
773; Winthrop’s account of, 129-143; 
supported by Cotton, 129-136, 208; 
banished from Massachusetts, 1 36, 
767-768; Johnson’s account of, 156- 
157- 

Hutchinson, Benjamin, of Salem Village, 
449-450 

Hyde, Edward, Lord Cornbury, gover- 
nor of New York, 442, 776, 


840 


Independents, see Congregationalists. 

Indians, 437; Johnson’s account of, 154- 
156; Williams’s, 530-536; language, 
manners and customs of, 504-506; 
land payments to, discussed by Stod- 
dard, 457. 

Inns, see ‘Taverns. 

Isocrates, 698. 


James I, king of England, 102, 476. 

James, William, 59. 

Jefferson, Thomas, 183, 193, 733; con- 
trasted with Roger Williams, 186-187. 

Jerome, Saint, 673, 680, 688. 

Johnson, Lady Arabella, 149. 

Johnson, Edward, deputy, 15, 16, 86; 
biographical sketch, 143; Wonder-work- 
ing Providence, 87, 89-90, 143-162, 550; 
epitaph on Harlackenden, 630-631; 
verses ““To the New Churches,” 6931. 

Johnson, Isaac, militia captain, epitaph 
on, 150. 

Johnson, Samuel, president of King’s 
(Columbia) College, 30 n.; Technologia, 
36 n., 38 n.; follower of Ramus, 38 n. 

Jones, John, minister of Concord, epitaph 
on, 153. 

Josephus, Flavius, 171. 

Josselyn, John, naturalist and traveler, 
Voyages quoted, 379, 381, 388. 

Journals, see Biographies. 

Judges, see Legal administration. 

Junius, Franz, French Huguenot divine, 


J ae civil, see Election sermons; Legal 
administration. 

Justin, Roman historian, 706. 

Justin, Saint, the martyr, 74. 

Justinian, 267. 

Juvenal, 698. 


Keayne, Robert, militia captain, fined 
for usury, 5 n. 

Keckermann, Bartolomeus, 
author, 665. 

Kepler, Johann, German astronomer, 


Protestant 


733° 
Knight, Sarah Kemble, biographical 
sketch, 425; Journal, 394, 425-447. 


Labadists, 403. 

Larkin, George, English printer, Dun- 
ton’s Letter to, 414-425. 

Latin, study of, 696, 697, 699, 701. 

Laud, William, archbishop of Canter- 
bury, 117, 290, 477; 480; on the author- 
ity of the Bible, 41-42. 

Laws, see Legal administration. 

Lawyers, Puritan distrust of, 380, 385 
and note. 

Learning, Puritan advancement of, 4, 
10, 19-413; see Education. 


i 
The Puritans 


Lechford, Thomas, first Massachusetts 
lawyer, biographical sketch, 401; Plain 
Dealing, 401-403; his objections to Puri- 
tans, 402-403. 

Lee, Samuel, minister of Bristol, 78, 460; 
on science and religion, 286. 

Legal administration, 381-382, 385-386, 
388, 389; see Election sermons. 

Letters, see Biographies. 

Leverett, John, president of Harvard 
College, 734, 780. 

Leybourn, William, English mathemati- 
cian, 423. 

Liberty, civil, Puritan theories of, 274— 
276; see Government. 

Libraries, Puritan, 270; Dunton’s dis- 
ene on, 422-425; bibliography, 829- 

I. 

Lightfoot, John, 
scholar, 241. 

Lillo, George, English dramatist, 394. 

Lily, William, English grammarian, 723, 
782. 

Literary theory, Puritan, selections illus- 
trating, 670-694; discussion of, 665— 
669; bibliography, 815-818. 

ccnp: Puritan, bibliography, 820- 

or. 

Locke, John, English philosopher, 30 
and note. 

Longinus, 689. 

Lucian, 170, 414. 

Lucius Florus, 168. 

Luist, Robert, 425. 

Luther, Martin, 85, 492-493. 

Lutherans, 229. 

Lyon, Richard, of Cambridge, 556. 


Anglican rabbinical 


Magistrates, duty and power of, 381, 382, 
385-386, 390; Cotton’s theory of, 212- 
214; Josselyn’s opinion of, 379; and 
Hubbard’s, 18; see Election sermons. 

Malabar (Cape Cod), roo. 

Malden, Massachusetts, 386, 630, 631. 

Manners, customs, and behavior, Puri- 
tan, selections illustrating, 395-457; 
discussion of, 379-395; at Harvard, 
699; bibliography, 807-811. 

Manufactures, see Trades and trading. 

Maple sugar,-produced in New England, 
383, 747-748. 

Marblehead, Massachusetts, 270, 385. 

Marprelates, 67. 

Marriage customs, in New England, 389- 
390; divorces, 390, 437. 

Marshall, Stephen, English Bra 
minister, 178, 770. 

Martyr, Peter, 119. 

Marvell, Andrew, 482, 777. 

Mason, John, captain in the Pequod 
wal, 473- 


Index 


Mason, John, Connecticut magistrate, 
letter from Williams, 484-488. 

Massachusetts, General Court of, 20. 

Massachusetts Bay, 123. 

Massachusetts Bay Colony, 88-89, 395, 
767; described by Lechford, 401-403; 
boundaries of patent, 402. 

Massachusetts Bay Company, 86; en- 
gages Higginson, 123; Winthrop sig- 
natory to charter of, 126; Ward a 
founder of, 226. 

Massasoit, Wampanoag sachem, 104. 

Mather, Cotton, minister of Boston, 2, 
22 n., 86, 270, 289, 291, 335, 386, 
392 N., 424, 512, 548-549, 553, 7583 
biographical sketch, 162-163; Mag- 
nalia, 82, 87, 90, 163-179; Accomplished 
Singer, 451-453; Life of Eliot, 83, 464, 
497-511; preface to Psaltertum Ameri- 
canum, 668, 678-680; Manuductio, 684- 
689; Elegy on Cheever, 722-724; Special 
Points, 724-727; Christian Philosopher, 
733, 750-758; sermon on Morgan, 415- 
417; interest in education, 695, 697, 
722-727; in science, 733-734, 737-738; 
750-758, 762; in style, 73-74, 76, 77; 
in poetry, 556, 668, 669, 685-680; 
member of Royal Society, 734; part in 
witchcraft delusion, 735-737; sup- 
porter of inoculation, 737; tendency 
toward Deistic rationalism, 733; ped- 
antry of, 49, 90. 

Mather, Eleazer, minister of Northamp- 
ton, 494. oes 

Mather, Increase, minister of Boston and 
president of Harvard College, 79, 90, 
162, 163, 237, 250, 270, 289, 376, 386, 
424, 510, 758; biographical sketch, 334— 
335; Awakening Truths, 335-340; A Dis- 
course (1697), 340+348; Practical Truths, 


348-350; An Arrow, 411-413; Life of 


Richard Mather, 489-496; Presidential 
Address, 721; sermon on Morgan, 419- 
420; attitude toward drinking, 2; fron- 
tier, 17 n.; education, 20-21, 700, 721; 
classical moralists, 22; Ramus, 32; 
literary style, 73, 335; toleration, 185; 
predestination, 282; divine providence, 
285, 3473 witchcraft, 736; inoculation, 


Meier. Nathaniel, minister of Barn- 
stable, England, 494. 

Mather, Richard, minister of Dorchester, 
90, 162, 334, 778; Life, by Increase 
Mather, 489-496; prose style of, 494; 
author of Bay Psalm Book, 555, 669. 

Mather, Samuel, minister of Dublin, Ire- 
land, 494; on nature and reason, 52. 

Maverick, Samuel, petitioner, 149. 

Maxwell, William, Harvard student, 
drowned, 347. 


841 


Mayhew, Experience, missionary to the 
Indians, 277. 


“Mayhew, Jonathan, minister of Boston, 


biographical sketch, 277; A Discourse, 
193-194, 277-280. 

Medford, Massachusetts, 139; Dunton’s 
“‘Ramble” through, 421-422. 

Medicine, in New England, practicing 
physicians, 246, 386-387; ministers as 
physicians, 386; see Smallpox inocula- 
tion. 

Meditation, importance of, to Puritans, 
Hooker’s account of, 301-306. 

Merry Mount, formerly Mount Wollas- 
ton, see ‘Thomas Morton. 

Methodism, 4. 

Midwives, 386. 

Mildmay, Sir Humphrey, of Essex, Eng- 
land, 399, 773- : 

Militia, training days, 776; Winthrop’s 
account of, 137-138; as holidays, 393, 
436-437; Oakes’ sermon on, 363. 

Miller, John, minister of Yarmouth, 739, 
783. 

Milton, John, 20, 67, 77, 547, 548, 668; 
Artis Logicae, 30 n., 36 n.; follower of 
Ramus, 36 n.; friend of Roger Wil- 
liams, 215; favorite of Puritans, 546; 
divorce tracts, 481-482. 

Ministers, in New England, Josselyn’s 
opinion of, 379; land privileges of, 
382; functions of, divided, 386. 

Mitchell, Jonathan, minister of Cam- 
bridge, 192, 334, 710; biographical 
sketch, 237; Nehemiah, 237-242; quotes 
Vergil, 23; theory of style, 71, 667; on 
free will, 287. 

Mix, Stephen, minister of Wethersfield, 


390. 

Mohegans (Mohegins), 486. 

Monarchy, defined by Wise, 268. 

Monk, George, duke of Albemarle, 478. 

Moody, Joshua, minister of Portsmouth, 
biographical sketch, 367; Souldiery 
Spiritualized, 367-369; sermon on Mor- 
gan, 417-419; prose style of, 367. 

Moore, Sir Jonas, English mathemati- 
cian, 423. 

Morgan, James, condemned murderer, 
413; execution described, 414-420. 

Morison, Robert, English physician, 743, 
783. 

Morton, Charles, vice president of Har- 
vard College, physics text used, 
733- 

Morton, Nathaniel, secretary of the Plym- 
outh Colony, on style, 75; his Plym- 
outh history, 81, 82. 

Morton, Thomas, of Merry Mount, 108— 
1103 with Wollaston, 1073 sent. back 
to England, 111. 


842 


Morton, William, English minister, on 
books, 72. 

Music, in New England, 270, 394, 412; 
in Puritan churches, 394, 450; Cotton 
Mather on, 450-453. 


Naraganset (Narragansett) Indians, 103, 


473- 

Nature, law of, Puritan view of, 47- 
57, 285-286, 730-733; discussed by 
Mitchell, 237-242; by Willard, 250- 
251; by Wise, 258-269; by Barnard, 
270-276. 

Naumkeag (Naumkeak), 126, 398. 

Newbury, Massachusetts, 290; violent 
wind at, 138-139; described by Sewall, 


377: 

New England, account of settlement by 
Higginson, 122-125; by Winthrop, 
137-143; by Johnson, 143-162; by 
Smith, 377; epidemic in, 142; slavery 
in, 376; attitude toward, by settlers, 
369-374; moral declensions bewailed, 
375-376, 379; customs in, described, 
379-395; Class of immigrants to, 381; 
exports and imports, 383; diseases 
common to, 386; Danckaerts’ descrip- 
tion of, 409-411. 

New England Company, 383. 

New Englands First Fruits, bibliographical 
account of, 700; text of, 701-704. 

New Haven, Connecticut, 139, 141, 367, 
425, 434, 435, 4393 afflicted by disaster, 
141-142. 

Newman, Henry, agent, 762; letter to, 
from Boylston, 763-764. 

Newman, Samuel, minister of Rehoboth, 
639, 739, 780, 783. 

Newport, Rhode Island, 484; trade and 
commerce, 383, 385. 

Newton, Sir Isaac, 181, 286, 733, 740. 

New York City, Madam Knight’s visit 
to, 441-443. ’ é 

Nonconformists, see Presbyterians; Puri- 
tans; Quakers, etc. 

Nonnus, 704, 781. 

Nonresistance, doctrine of, opposed by 
Mayhew, 277-280. 

North, Sir Thomas, 22 n. 

Norton, John, minister of Ipswich and 
Boston, 334; biographical sketch, 768; 
on Quakers, 11; on grace, 39; on 
nature and reason, 52, 54; account of, 
by Johnson, 151. 

Norton, John, nephew of the Boston 
minister, 580; elegy on Mrs. Bradstreet, 
583-585. . 

Nowell, Samuel, assistant, on drunken- 
ness, 393; interest in science, 732. 

Noyes, Nicholas, minister of Salem, 377, 


449, 450; on literary style, 64-65; 


The Puritans 


part played in witchcraft delusion, 
759-762. 


Oakes, Urian, president of Harvard Col- 
lege, 90, 775; biographical sketch, 350; 
The Soveraign Efficacy, 350-367; Elegy on 
Shepard, 551, 641-650; prose style of, 
70-71, 350; on scripture interpreta- 
tion, 25; on science, 27, 730; on divine 
providence, 285, 287, 350-367; on 
men’s apparel, 388. 

Origen, 680, 724. 

Otis, James, 277. 

Ovid, 682, 697, 698, 723. 

Owen,’ John, English theologian, 165, 
769. 


Paine, ‘Thomas, 733. 

Palmer, Geoffrey, English judge, 423. 
Paper money, 257, 384. 

Papists, 229. 

Paracelsus, 386, 771. 

Parker, Thomas, minister of Newbury, 


Ou is 

Paul, Saint, 22 n. 

Peacham, Henry, English critic, 665. 

Pemberton, Ebenezer, minister of Boston, 
on duty of citizens, 18-19. 

Pepys, Samuel, 733. 

Pequod (Pequot) Indians, 472-473, 486. 

Pericles, 22 n. 

Perkins, William, English Puritan, 209, 
7713; importance of, in America, 47 n.; 
on prose style, 65, 666. 

Persius, 698. 

Peter, Hugh, minister of Salem, 127, 483; 
opposes Mrs. Hutchinson, 129; sketch 
of, 765. 

Philips, Katherine Fowler, ‘‘the matchless . 
Orinda,” 423. 

Phillips, Edward, English critic, 561. 

Philomela, see Elizabeth Rowe. 

Philosophical Society of Boston, 734. 

Phips, Sir William, governor of Massa- 
chusetts, 462, 735, 736. 

Physicians, see Medicine. 

Pierpont, James, minister of New Haven, 

446, 776. 

Pigon, John, 406. 

Pike, John, minister of Dover, 380. 

Pilgrims, the, 88, 387. 

Pirates, 386. 

Plato, 21, 685, 706, 721; quoted by Wise, 
266-267. 

Platonism, 38 n. 

Plautus, 21. 


Pliny, 753- 
Plum Island, Massachusetts, 290, 376—- 


377: 
Plutarch, 22 and note, 50, 169, 490, 706. 
Plymouth Colony, 88-89, 91; Bradford’s 


Index 


History of, 91-117; plantation described 
by Smith, 396-397. 

Poetry, Puritan, selections illustrating, 
552-063; discussion of, 77—78, 545-552; 
667, 684, 685-689; Jane Turell’s in- 
terest in, 542-543; blank verse, 452- 
453, 668 and note, 678-680; bibliog- 
raphy, 818-820. 

Point Care (Cape Cod), roo. 

Polybius, 168, 169, 171. 

Pope, Alexander, 552, 663, 668. 

Port Royal, Nova Scotia, 270, 448, 449. 

Predestination, 56-57, 358-361; differs 
from fatalism, 282-283; Mather’s Pre- 
destination, 335-340. 

Presbyterianism, 208. 

Presbyterians, 86, 87, 178. 

Preston, John, English Puritan, 366, 773; 
on grace, 39; defines beauty, 62. 

Prince, Thomas, minister of Boston, 556. 

Printing press, 376; description of, 409. 

Privateering, 385. 

Prodigies, recorded in New England, 
137-140, 740-742; Puritan view of, 
731—-732- 

Proprietors, 382. 

Prose style, Puritan, 64—76, 665, 673; dif- 
ferences from Anglican, 68-72. 

Protestantism, 16, 17. 

Providence, Rhode Island, 448; founded 
by Williams, 215, 485; Williams’ letter 
to, 224-225; ferry at, 428; Tompson’s 
verses on, 638-639. 

Prynne, William, 67, 491, 777. 

Psalms, metrical version of, 450. 

Pufendorf, Samuel, 258, 772. 

Punishments, 386, 392; Morgan’s execu- 
tion described, 413-420; Indian, 437— 

38. 

Penien, defined, 1-63; as a religious 
creed, 4; a philosophy, 4; a meta- 
physic, 4; misconceptions of, 4, 5; 
origin of, 5-6; divergences from An- 
glicanism, 6—7, 12-15, 41-55; tenets 
common to Anglicanism, 7-11; in- 
tellectual quality of, 14; rationalism in, 
21; Platonic elements of, 38-39 and 
note; intensity of, 59, 89; individuality 
of creed, 182-183; theological terms 
defined, 766-767. 

Puritans, misconceptions about, 2-5, 
282-283; heirs of Middle Ages, 10, 
695; intellectualism of, 4; opposers of 
sects and toleration, 3-5, 10, 25; of 
democracy, 5, 17, 381; on drinking, 2, 
392-393, 420, 421; economic philos- 
ophy of, 5, 19, 384-385; autocratic 
temper of, 19, 379-380; humanism of, 
19-41, 695, 697; heirs of Renaissance, 
546, 665; knowledge of classics, 20, 
21-23, 681-683, 695-700; of Hebrew, 


843. 


21, 91, 698; use of scholasticism, 26-27; 
revolt agairst scholasticism, 27-41; as 
Calvinists, 32-33, 56-58; followers of 
Ramus, 34-41; theory of grace, 53-54; 
aesthetic theories of, 61-62, 64-66, 
247-250, 394; as literary artists, 64- 
79, 281-282, 314, 335, 367-369, 390, 
425, 465, 494, 665-669; on writing of 
history, 81-90; departure from Eng- 
land, 147-149; self-analysis of, 282— 
286; struggle for perfection, 284-285, 
288, 306-309; sermon types, 288-289; 
interest in meditation, 301-309; hatred 
of hypocrisy, 314-318; on grace, 318, 
327-334, 369-371; on faith, 319-327; 
on death, 340-348, 391; on behavior 
in church, 348-350; on moral declen- 
sion, 347-348, 375-376, 379; on slay- 
ery, 376; factiousness among, 379-381; 
on idleness, 384 n.; professions among, 
385-387; close family ties, 391; see 
Government; Legal administration; 
Music, etc. 


Quakers, 184, 185, 380, 442, 445, 483; 
Puritan objection to, II. 

Quarles, Francis, 555, 650. 

Quebec, 257; John Williams at, 534-536. 


Ramus, Petrus, French logician, 166; 
teaching method of, 28-29, 32; works, 
28; logic of, 29-41; on science, 29; 
Dialecticae, 30 n.; Platonism of, 31 and 
note; Puritan dependence on, 32-41, 
73-74, 709, 710; doctrine of contraries, 
32-41; humanism of, 36; reform of 
logic, 74 n. 

Rapin de Thoyras, Paul, 76, 665. 

Ray (Wray), John, 752, 782. 

Reason, Puritan view of, 47-57, 285-286; 
discussed by Mitchell, 237-242; by 
Wise, 258-269; by Barnard, 270-276. 

Reformation, 16, 19, 85-86, 181. 

Rehoboth, Massachusetts, 485; verses on, 
by Tompson, 639-640. 

Revolution, right of, preached by May- 
hew, 277. 

Revolution of 1688, the, 163, 243, 334. 

Reyner, Edward, 289. 

Richards, John, captain, of Boston, 446. 

Richardson, Alexander, English logician, 
30 N., 710. 

Richardson, John, minister of Newbury, 
24 n.; interest in science, 732. 

Robinson, John, Pilgrim pastor, 88, 90, 
PEE RL. 

Rogers, John, president of Harvard Col- 
lege, 580; elegy on Mrs. Bradstreet, 
581-583. 

Rogers, John, minister of Ipswich, 777. 

Rogers, Nathaniel, minister of Ipswich, 


449- 


844 


Rogers, Richard, English Puritan, 552. 
Rogers, Samuel, of New London, 446. 
Rowe, Elizabeth (Singer), “the incom- 


parable Philomela,”’ 423. 

Roxbury, Massachusetts, 203; Mrs. 
Hutchinson at, 135; Danckaerts’ visit 
to, 407-408. 

Royal Society of London, 163, 667; New 
Englanders members of, 734 and 
note. 


Russell, Daniel, of Charlestown, 631; 
almanac poem, 633-635. 

Russell, Noadiah, minister of Middle- 
town, biographical sketch, 744; essay 
on lightning, 744-750. 

Russell, Samuel, minister of Branford, 
24n. 


Sadlier, Anne, correspondence with Wil- 
liams, 464, 476-482. 

Salem, Massachusetts, 243, 335, 376, 385; 
settled by Higginson, 123; Winthrop’s 
account of, 126-127; Johnson’s, 149; 
Smith’s, 398. 

Saltonstall, Gurdon, minister of New 
London, 434, 446, 776. 

Saltonstall, Richard, assistant, 133, 758. 

Sanders, Robert, of Albany, 406. 

Sandys, George, 548. - 

Sargent, Peter, of Boston, 394, 512. 

Saye and Sele, see Fiennes. 

Science, Puritan interest in, 4, 8-g, 26- 
27> 286, 699-700, 708, 721, 7735 S€- 
lections illustrating, 738-764; discus- 
sion of, 729-738; Hubbard on, 248- 
249; bibliography, 823-829. 

Seekers, 160; Williams as seeker, 215. 

Seneca, 22 and note, 706. 

Separatism, 88, go. 

Servants, 381, 384, 385. 

Settle, Elkanah, 423. 

Sewall, Samuel, chief justice of Massa- 
chusetts, 59, 369, 376, 736; biographi- 
cal sketch, 376; Phaenomena, 290, 376- 
3773. Diary, 376, 462-463, 511-530; 
biblical prophecy, 290, 376-377; ob- 
jection to wigs, 389; on death, 391; 
on music, 394; courtship, 518-528; dis- 
trust of science, 733 n. 

Shadwell, Thomas, 423. 

Shepard, Thomas, minister of Cam- 
bridge, 59, 133, 159, 237, 424, 630, 
765; biographical sketch, 117-118; 
Defence, 84, 87, 118-122; Autobiography, 
463, 471-475; on heathen authors, 23; 
on knowledge, 50; on reason, 53, 7303 
prose style of, 70-71; account of, by 
Johnson, 151-152. 

Shepard, Thomas, Jr., minister of 
Charlestown, 640-641; biographical 
sketch, 714; almanac poetry, 550; 


The Puritans — 


elegy on, by Oakes, 641-650; letter to 
his son, 715-720. 

Shepard, Thomas, son of the preceding, 
714; letter to, from his father, 715-720. 

Ships and shipping, 385, 401. 

Sibbes, Richard, English Puritan, on 
style, 66. 

Sidney, Sir Philip, follower of Ramus, 
29; admired by Puritans, 546, 561, 699. 

Skelton, Samuel, minister of Salem, 126, 
765. 

ey 384; Sewall’s pamphlet against, 


379. 

Sluyter, Peter, Dutch traveler, see Danck- 
aerts. 

Smallpox inoculation, 163, 257, 270, 335; 
73 7-738; account of, by Boylston, 763— 


794- 

Smith, John, explorer, 100, 376; bio- 
graphical sketch, 395; Advertisement, 
395-400. 

Smuggling, 385. 

Social life, see Manners, customs, and 
behavior. 

Socrates, 50, 721. 

Sophocles, 699. 

Spectator, The, 76. 

Speed, John, English antiquary, 547. 

Spenser, Edmund, favorite poet of Rad: 
tans, 546, 561, 699. 

Sports and diversions, 391-394; ue 
scribed by Danckaerts, 410; dancing, 
411-413. 

Sprat, Thomas, bishop of Rochester, 734; 
on style, 75; critical theories of, 667. 

Stamp Act, opposed by Mayhew, 277. 

Standish, Miles, Pilgrim captain, 103; 
sent after Morton, 110. 

Steere, Richard, colonial poet, 667-668, 
669 n. 

Stephen, Saint, 177. 

Sternhold, Thomas, English writer, 453, 


555- 
Stiles, Ezra, president of Yale College, 
6 


51. 
Stirk, George, London physician, 740. 
Stoddard, Mary, 390. 

Stoddard, Solomon, minister of North- 
ampton, 335, 389, 770; biographical 
sketch, 453-454; An Answer, 454-457; 
on grace, 40. 

Stone, Samuel, minister of Hartford, 291, 
739, 783. 

Stoughton, Israel, assistant, 133. 

Stoughton, William, lieutenant governor 
of Massachusetts, 192, 463, 713; bio- 
graphical sketch, 243; New Englands 
True Interest, 243-246, 

Suetonius, 169. 

Swift, Jonathan, 722. 

Sylvester, Joshua, 546. 


Index 


Tacitus, 169, 170, 706. 
Talon (Talaeus), Omer, rhetorician, 
n. 

Tate, Nahum, English laureate poet, 423, 
756. 

Tatler, The, 689. 

Taverns, poor accommodations in, 393— 
3943 described by Danckaerts, 410; 
by Dunton, 421-422; by Madam 
Knight, 425-447. 

Taylor, Edward, minister of Westfield, 
529-530, 667; biographical sketch, 
650-651; poetry of, 651-657; discussed, 
552; love letter quoted, 390. 

Taylor, Jeremy, 59, 60, 481; Ductor, 
47-49; Puritan opinion of, 54; on 
nature and reason, 55; prose style of, 
69-70. 

Temple, Sir William, go n. 

Terence, 712. 

Tertullian, 170. 

Textbooks, 695-700, 733. 

Thanksgiving, 393. 

Theocracy, 17; Cotton on, 210. 

Theocritus, 699. 

Theology, Puritan, selections illustrating, 
290-377; discussed, 281-290; bibliog- 
raphy, 798-806. 

Thomson, James, British poet, 552, 663, 
668. 

Thoreau, Henry, 461, 733. 

Thou, Jacques Auguste de, 172. 

Thucydides, 23, 168. 

Tillotson, John, archbishop of Canter- 
bury, 276, 772. 

Tindal, Sir John, 142. 

Toleration, 381; Cotton-Williams debate 
on, 216-224; Ward on, 226-236. 

Tompson, Benjamin, teacher and physi- 
cian of Roxbury, biographical sketch, 
635-636; New Englands Crisis, 636-640; 
poetry of, 551. 

Tompson, David, 149. 

Tools and utensils, 388. 

Towns and villages, commons, 380, 422; 
squabbles in, 380-381; grantees and 
proprietors of, 382; land values in, 
384; local government in, 386. 

Trades and trading, 383-385, 387-388, 
396-400. 

Training days, see Militia. 

Travel, 394; see Madam Knight’s Journal. 

Trost, Martin, 704, 782. 

Trowbridge, Thomas, of New Haven, 
439, 442. 

Trumbull, John, American poet, 552. 

Turell, Ebenezer, minister of Medford, 
biographical sketch, 536; Life of Col- 
man, 464-465, 536-541; Memoirs of Fane 
Turell, 464-465, 541-544; theories of 
style, 74. 


345 


Turell, Jane, 465; Memoirs of, 541-544; 
her interest in poetry, 542-543. 
Turner, Robert, 676, 781. 


Ulpian, 263. 

Underhill, John, captain against the 
Pequods, 215, 459. 

Unitarianism, 3, 4, 277. 

Ussher, James, primate of Ireland, 47, 
178, 241, 770. 


Vane, Lady Frances, the younger, 73. 

Vane, Sir Henry, 127, 128, 133, 194, 4773 
supports Mrs. Hutchinson, 129-133; 
‘biographical sketch, 765. 

Vergil, 22, 23, 29, 546, 682, 685, 698; 
quoted, 689. 

Vida, Marco Girolamo, 686. 

Virginia Company, the, 102. 


Wadsworth, Benjamin, president of Har- 
vard College, 449, 777. 
Waldensis (Waldensians), 

Walley, John, 18. 

Walter, Nehemiah, minister of Roxbury, 
508, 510. 

Walter, Thomas, minister of Roxbury, on 
poetry, 78. 

Ward, Edward (““Ned”’), English satirist, 
687, 781. 

Ward, Nathaniel, minister of Ipswich, 23, 
59, 183; biographical sketch, 225-226, 
580; The Simple Cobler, 226-236; prose 
style of, 73; preaches before the Gen- 
eral Court, 204-205; on women’s ap- 
parel, 232-235; on law and liberty, 
235-236; verses on Mrs. Bradstreet, 
580-581. 

Watts, Isaac, English hymn writer, 552, 
663. 

Webb, Joseph, minister of Fairfield, 776. 

Weld, Thomas, minister of Roxbury, 
author of Bay Psalm Book, 555. 

West Indies, trade with New England, 
383, 385. 

Wheeler, Joshua, 434-435. 

Wheelwright, John, minister of Wollas- 
ton, 766; Antinomian leader, 129-136, 
202. 

Whiston, William, English divine and 
mathematician, 538, 778. 

White, Ebenezer, minister of Sag Harbor, 
448, 776. 

Whiting, John, minister of Concord, 37 n. 

Whiting, Joseph, minister of Southamp- 
ton, 448, 776. 

Whiting, Joseph, graduate of Harvard 
College, 24 n. 

Wigglesworth, Michael, poet, and min- 
ister of Malden, biographical sketch, 
548-549, 585-586; Day of Doom, bib- 


197, 348, 770. 


846 


liographical account of, 585-586; se- 
lections from, 586-611; God’s Contro- 
versy, 611-616; Meat out of the Eater, 
616-630; Prayse of Eloquence, 674-678; 
as physician, 386; on poetry, 77, 667; 
poetry of, discussed, 548-549, 552. 

Willard, Samuel, minister of Boston, 18, 
284, 335, 419, 460, 512, 513, 758, 775; 
biographical sketch, 250; Character of a 
Good Ruler, 193, 250-256; The Childs 
Portion, 369-371; The High Esteem, 371- 
374; Perils of the Times, 374-375; fol- 
lower of Ramus, 36 n.; prose style of, 
70-72; on reason, 288; on toleration, 
185. 

Willard, Simon, major, 153. 

Williams, John, minister of Deerfield, 
biographical sketch, 530; Redeemed Cap- 
tive, 463, 530-536; at Quebec, 534-536. 

Williams, Roger, founder of Providence 
Plantation, 202; biographical sketch, 
214-215; Bloudy Tenent, 216-224; Letter 
to Providence, 224-225; Letters, 464, 475- 
488; on prose style, 73, 666; described 
by Bradford, 111; opposed by Win- 
throp, 126; debate with Cotton, 186, 
216-224, 479; contrasted with Jeffer- 
son, 186-187; banishment, 215; on 
civil magistrates, 220-222, 223; on 
persecution, 219, 224. 

Williams, Williarh, minister of Hatfield, 
biographical sketch, 744; essay on 
comets, 745—747- 

Wilson, John, minister of Boston, 127, 
499; biographical sketch, 552-553; 
London Plague, 553-555; opposes Mrs. 
Hutchinson, 130-131, 552; poetry of, 
discussed, 547, 549, 667. 


Wilson, Thomas, English writer, 498, 
778. 
Wing, Vincent, English astronomer, 


732 De, 733- 
Winslow, Edward, governor of Plymouth, 


Winslow. Josiah, governor of Plymouth, 
104; friend of Williams, 485. 

Winthrop, Adam, 125. ~ 

Winthrop, Fitz -John, governor of Con- 
necticut, 676. 


The Puritans 


Winthrop, John, governor of Massachu- 
setts, 10, 133, 150, 215, 285, 289, 379, 
388, 400, 482-483, 552; biographical 
sketch, 125-126; Journal, 82, 83-84, 86, 
87, 89, 90, 126-143, 202-207, 246, 4593 , 
Modell, 195-199; Defence, 199-202; 
Speech, 205-207; Letters, 463-464, 465- 
471; on heathen authors, 23; on gov- 
ernment, 181, 189, 192, 194-207; on 
liberty, 205-207; friend of Williams, 
484-485. 

Winthrop, John, Jr., governor of Con- 
necticut, 137, 439, 446; biographical 
sketch, 739-740, 780; letter to the 
Royal Society, 740-742; letter from 
Williams, 482-483; poem on, by Wol- 
cott, 659-662 

Winthrop, Katherine, courted by Sewall, 
59, 290, 462. 

Winthrop, Margaret, wife of John, 464. 

Wise, John, minister of Ipswich, 22 n., 
79, 246; biographical sketch, 256-257; 
Vindication, 193, 257-269; economic 
asia 257-269, 384; on cbr style, 


Witchcraft, the delusion of eos 2575 
335, 367, 386, 447, 462-463, 734-7373 
Sewall’s part in, 376; bibliography, 
826-827. 

Wolcott, Roger, governor of Connecticut, 
551, 669, 680-684; biographical sketch, 
657-658; Poetical Meditations, 658-659; 
Account of Winthrop, 659-662. 

Wollaston, Captain, early 
Merry Mount, 107. 

Woodbridge, Benjamin, minister in Eng- 
land, 377. 

Woodbridge, Ephraim, minister of New 
London, 24 n. 

Woodward, John, English writer, 751, 
783. 

Wren, Sir Christopher, 740. 

Wycliffe, John, 165, 768. 


settler at 


Xenophon, 168. 
Yale College, 66. 


Zeno, 721. 


2 < 
b : we rs . 7 
oy < = . al <4 hte? Pi an 2a bas “a 7 oe 
: sl +. g ¥ T © a 
. 7 we 2 § Sa ri% a. ea ae > \ ‘ ’ y ‘ 
7 - gee.’ i= 


> 

oo t ; “2 7 ps a - ; = ig 4 ‘ 

Dt meee» pele! ar ey I a. 7 Hi 
iy . ® ed os ; ; e 


¥ th bent coho A 4 2 
Merrirhac 
poe / Merri 8 
' ; errimac 
{ Haverhill Newbury 
R. 


Y st 
ON. Andover 
BS eS sl Ce Ox 


Topsfield® 


om 


Mert. ) 


° 
Andover 


Mt. Wollaston35 
Merry Mount ey 


Um 


Kingston , 


Li 
Am iy 


oe 


ALU 


‘ 


NEW 


SPUYTEN DUYVILAg 
KINGSBRIDGE 3 


Ss 
Hingham 
Braintree © Wessagusett 

Weymouth 


N48. W xe R 
=<=s B 
“Ss 8 
AS hase 
wt fas 
 §Zo 
“~S AS 
Fe = 
“5. Sf “hier 
LEG a 73 


IANA 


\¢ 


Cowass - Indian name applied to — 
a stretch of the upper Connecticut R. 
Later known as “Great Intervale.’’ 


= 


° 


ny 4 BES 
Blaxton’s Point, Noddle’s Island 3 
Tompson’s Island, Castle Island, 
Governor’s Island, Isle of Slate - — 
all within Boston Bay. 


5 


ae 
> 


» 
ae 


% 


—» 
) 


In 


) 


hy 


( 


W 


GAYLORD PRINTED INU.S.A 
ee . 4A wes peo)’ A — Dp 
a Fairfield \fES Milford sou 


Southhold o& 
GE 


Co 


wo 


E)W 2, 
he Ss ed 


) f§ HAMP/SHIRE 
ek 


{ = ie em eo _] 


4.9 5Groton - 
oe ° Ve 
Sagpe Village 
' Chelmeford SS Dann —° === 
Harvard cee Naumkeag Z@ Marblehead 
conlits_ JS “Salem PE 


Ai 1D DLESEX Maldes 


MASSACHUSETTS 


BAY 


Weymouth_tips = 
Marshfieldo 


——- ee = = 
in 


r 


; iS 4 - Plymouthe 
© Z : 
aig 4 : pecan 8 Middteborough 
+: \e ‘Providente, & ; a NEW 
oe OD [ E ’ 


————— 0 Yarmouth ss 
AVECAPE MALABAR 
Barnstable Gi a TUCKERS TERROUR 


POINTE CARE 


J 


a 


ee eee 


ISLE OF PROVIDENCE 
PRUDENCE ISLE 


MAP OF 
NEW ENGLAND 


. done in the best Pattern that could be had, which 
being in some places defective, it made the others less 
exact: yet doth it sufficiently shew the Scituation of the 
Countrey, and conveniently well the distance of Places.”’ 

from map published in 1677 by Wm. Hubbard. 
OI —— 


The Journey of Madam Knight 


peestiecssteeset sacs ss Portion of Long Island under 
Connecticut jurisdiction a: 1664 


eaten ao 
err 


: s : 
a 


etic ee 


