DOCUMENT_ID: alexander1845
TITLE (as printed): Biographical Sketches of the Founder and Principal Alumni of the Log College. Together with an Account of the Revivals of Religion under Their Ministry.
DATE: Collected and edited 1845 (Princeton); this scanned printing 1851 stereotype reprint (Philadelphia: Presbyterian Board of Publication)
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://archive.org/details/biographicalsketches00alex (djvu OCR: https://archive.org/download/biographicalsketches00alex/biographicalsketches00alex_djvu.txt)
EDITION: Internet Archive scan, identifier biographicalsketches00alex (1851 stereotype printing; text unchanged from Alexander's 1845 original per the book's own preface)
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (Internet Archive's own OCR, engine unspecified; generally clean 19th-century roman type, occasional long-s/digit misreads noted inline)
TOTAL PAGES (this transcription): partial. Four excerpts only, out of a ~250-page book covering many Tennent-family memoirs not needed for this dossier: Chapter I "The Log College" (pp. 7-12, whole chapter); Chapter II "Memoir of the Rev. Wm. Tennent, Sen." (pp. 13-23, whole chapter); part of Chapter III on Gilbert Tennent's 1726 licensure, the school's curriculum, and the 1738 Synod examination rule (pp. 43-47); and Chapter VII "The Log College the germ from which proceeded the College of New Jersey" (pp. 76-85, whole chapter). Chapters IV-VI, IX-XX (further Tennent-family memoirs, anecdotes, sermons, and an appendix) were not transcribed this session.
WORD COUNT (this excerpt): approx. 10,300
NOTE ON PAGE MARKERS: markers are placed at this OCR's own running-head page numbers, which are frequent (roughly every 700-900 words) but not on every single line; text between two markers belongs to the first of the pair. A few OCR digit misreads in running heads are reproduced as printed (e.g. "2G" for "26", "4o" for "45", "TS" for "78") -- uncorrected per transcription rule.

=== EXCERPT 1: Chapter I, "The Log College" (pp. 7-12) ===

[[p. 7]]
THE   LOG    COLLEGE. 


AsFOciation  gives  interest  to  places — Lojj  College — Xanie — Site — Size — 
Utter  Desolation — Country  around — Dr.  James  P.  Wilson — Kelic— -* 
Suggestion  of  a  Monument — Importance  of  the  Institution. 

By  association,  objects  which  have  nothing  interest- 
ing in  themselves,  acquire  an  importance,  by  reason 
of  the  persons  or  things  whicli  they  constantly  suggest 
to  our  minds.  The  rock  of  Plymouth  has  nothing  in 
it  which  renders  it  intrinsically  superior  to  thousands 
of  other  rocks  in  the  country ;  and  the  site  of  James- 
tOAvn  has  nothing  but  its  interesting  associations  to 
engage  the  attention  of  any  one.  But  these  spots,  as 
being  the  first  habitations  of  the  Em-opcan  settlers,  in 
this  part  of  the  ncAV  Avorld,  arc  invested  with  an  interest 
which  is  felt  by  all ;  and  this  interest,  instead  of  grow- 
ing weaker  by  the  lapse  of  time,  gathers  new  strength 
every  year.  Indeed,  it  is  only  a  recent  thing,  that  the 
public  attention  has  been  particularly  called  to  these 
objects.  And  though  there  may  be  an  excess  in  the 
emotions  cherished  by  some,  and  an  affectation  of  lively 
interest  in  others  ;  yet,  it  cannot  be  doubted,  that  there 
is  a  foundation  in  human  nature  for  the  interest  which 
is  excited  by  particular  objects,  places,  and  scenes. 
And  the  more  intimately  these  associations  are  related 
to  religion,  the  deeper  and  more  permanent  the  feeling 
becomes.  By  the  abuse  of  this  principle  much  super- 
stition has  been  generated ;  but  the  moderate  and  ju- 
dicious use  of  it  may,  undoubtedly,  be  conducive  to 
piety.  Sacred,  or  holy  places,  figure  largely  in  all 
false  systems  of  religion ;  and  under  the  old  dispensa- 

(7) 


[[p. 8]]
8  THE    LOG    COLLEGE. 

tion,  tlic  people  of  God  were  encouraged  to  reverence 
those  places  where  the  worship  of  God  was  appointed 
to  be  celebrated.  Under  the  gospel  dispensation,  it  is 
true,  we  have  no  holy  places  or  houses,  to  which  the 
"worship  of  God  is  confined ;  but  in  every  place,  whether 
by  sea  or  land  ;  whether  in  the  grove,  on  the  mountain 
top,  or  in  the  open  field,  or  the  lonely  vale,  God  may 
be  worshipped.  Yet,  who  does  not  entertain  peculiar 
feelings  of  interest  in  relation  to  those  places,  where 
Christ  was  born — where  he  was  brought  up — Avhcre  he 
preached  and  wrought  miracles — but,  especially,  Avhcre 
he  suflfered  and  died,  and  where  he  was  buried  and 
arose  again — and  where  he  ascended  to  heaven,  in  the 
presence  of  his  disciples  ?  This  feeling  is  natural,  and 
associated  with  love  to  Christ,  but  it  readily  becomes 
excessive,  and  degenerates  into  superstition.  There 
never  was  a  book  in  which  there  is  so  little  to  foster 
superstition,  as  the  Bible.  We  never  there  read  of  the 
apostles,  when  they  came  up  to  Jerusalem,  resorting  to 
any  of  these  places,  or  expressing  the  smallest  degree 
of  veneration  for  them.  The  natm-al  tendency  of  the 
human  mind  seems  to  have  been  counteracted,  for  the 
very  purpose  of  preventing  superstition ;  just  as  the 
natural  passions  of  the  evangelists  seem  to  have  been 
restrained  in  writing  the  gospels. 

Of  late,  considerable  curiosity  has  been  manifested 
to  ascertain  the  place  where  the  first  Presbyterian 
church,  in  this  country,  was  formed;  and  the  history 
of  the  first  Presbyterian  preacher  who  came  to  Amer- 
ica, which  had  sunk  into  oblivion,  has,  of  late,  been 
brought  prominently  into  view.  Such  researches, 
when  unaccompanied  with  boasting  and  vainglory,  are 
laudable.  And  to  gratify  a  similar  curiosity,  in  regard 
to  the  first  literary  institution,  above  common  schools, 
in  the  bounds  of  the  Presbyterian  church,  this  small 
book  has  been  compiled.  That  institution,  we  believe, 
was,  what  has  been  called  the  log  college.  The 
reason  of  the  epithet  prefixed  to  the  word  "  Col- 
lege," might  be  obscui'c  to  a  Eui'opean;   but  in  this 


[[p. 9]]
THELOGCOLLEGE.  9 

country,  where  log-cabins  arc  so  numerous,  Avill  be  in- 
telligible to  all  classes  of  readers.  This  edifice,  which 
was  made  of  logs,  cut  out  of  the  woods,  probably, 
from  the  very  spot  where  the  house  was  erected,  was 
situated  in  Bucks  county,  Pennsylvania,  about  twenty 
miles  north  of  Philadelphia.  The  Log  College  has 
long  since  disappeared;  so  that  although  the  site  on 
which  it  stood  is  well  known  to  many  in  the  vicinity, 
there  is  not  a  vestige  of  it  remaining  on  the  ground ; 
and  no  appearance  which  would  indicate  that  a  house 
ever  stood  there.  The  fact  is,  that  some  owner  of  the 
property,  never  dreaming  that  there  was  anything 
sacred  in  the  logs  of  this  humble  edifice,  had  them 
carried  away  and  applied  to  some  ignoble  purpose  on 
the  farm,  Avhere  they  have  rotted  away  like  common 
timber,  from  which,  if  any  of  them  remain,  they  can 
no  longer  be  distinguished.  But  that  some  small  relic 
of  this  venerable  building  might  be  preserved,  the  late 
Presbyterian  minister  of  the  place.  Rev.  Robert  B. 
Belville,  some  years  ago,  rescued  from  the  common 
ruin  so  much  of  one  of  these  logs,  as  enabled  him,  by 
paring  off  the  decayed  parts,  to  reduce  it  to  something 
of  the  form  of  a  walking-staff;  which,  as  a  token  of 
respect,  and  for  safe  keeping,  he  presented  to  the  late 
Rev.  Samuel  Miller,  D.  D.,  one  of  the  oldest  Professors 
of  the  Theological  Seminary  at  Princeton,  New  Jersey. 

The  site  of  the  Log  College  is  about  a  mile  from 
that  part  of  Neshaminy  creek  where  the  Presbyterian 
church  has  long  stood.  The  ground  near  and  around 
it  lies  handsomely  to  the  eye,  and  the  more  distant 
prospect  IS  very  beautiful ;  for  while  there  is  a  conside- 
rable extent  of  fertile,  well  cultivated  land,  nearly 
level,  the  view  is  bounded  to  the  north  and  west  by 
a  range  of  liills,  which  have  a  very  pleasing  appear- 
ance. 

It  may  not  be  improper  to  observe,  that  the  late 
Rev.  James  P.  Wilson,  D.  D.,  the  learned  and  admired 
pastor  of  the  First  Presbyterian  church,  in  Piiiladel- 
phia,  was  so  pleased  with  the  scenery  and  circumstances 


[[p. 10]]
10  THE    LOG     COLLEGE. 

of  this  neifrliboui'hoof],  that  he  purchased  a  small  farm, 
•\vliich  is,  I  believe,  as  near  to  the  site  of  the  Log  Col- 
lege as  any  other  dwelling,  except  the  one  on  the  farm 
on  which  it  was  built.  To  this  farm  he  retired  when 
no  longer  able,  through  bodily  weakness,  to  fulfil  the 
arduous  duties  of  the  pastoral  office.  And  here,  in 
calm  serenity,  he  spent  the  last  years  of  his  life. 

If  I  were  fond  of  projects,  I  would  propose  that  a 
monument  be  erected  to  the  founder  of  the  Log  College 
on  the  very  site  where  the  building  stood,  if  the  land 
could  be  purchased ;  but  at  any  rate,  a  stone  with  an 
inscription  might  be  permanently  fixed  on  or  near  the 
ground.  The  tradition  respecting  this  humble  institu- 
tion of  learning  exists,  not  only  in  the  neighbourhood, 
but  has  been  extended  far  to  the  south  and  Avest. 

The  first  Presbyterian  ministers  in  this  country  were 
nearly  all  men  of  liberal  education.  Some  had  re- 
ceived their  education  in  the  universities  of  Scotland ; 
some  in  L-eland ;  and  others  at  one  of  the  New  Eng- 
Land  colleges.  And  though  there  existed  such  a  des- 
titution of  ministers  in  this  new  country,  they  never 
thought  of  introducing  any  man  into  the  ministry  who 
had  not  received  a  college  or  university  education,  ex- 
cept in  very  extraordinary  cases ;  of  which,  I  believe, 
we  have  but  one  instance  in  the  early  history  of  the 
Presbyterian  church.  This  was  the  case  of  a  Welsh- 
man by  the  name  of  Evans,  who,  living  in  a  place 
called  the  Welsh  Tract,  where  the  people  had  no  public 
means  of  grace,  began  to  speak  to  them  of  the  things 
of  God,  on  the  Sabbath,  and  at  other  times;  and  his 
labours  were  so  acceptable  and  useful  that  the  presby- 
tery, after  a  full  trial  of  his  abilities,  licensed  him  to 
preach,  and  afterwards  ordained  him  to  the  whole  work 
of  the  ministry.  They  required  him,  however,  to  go 
through  a  course  of  study,  under  the  direction  of  cer- 
tain members  of  the  Presbytery.  There  is,  indeed, 
another  case  that  may  possibly  fall  into  this  class. 
"  The  people  of  Gape  May  were  without  a  pastor  ;  Mr. 
Braducr,  a  candidate  for  the  ministry,  was  willing  to 


TUE    LOG    COLLEGE.  11 

serve  them,  but  had  no  autliority  to  preach.  In  this 
emergency  three  of  the  nearest  ministers,  Messrs. 
Davis,  Hampton,  and  Henry,  on  their  own  responsi- 
bility, examined  and  licensed  him."*  But  as  he  was 
before  a  candidate,  and  a  Scotchman,  there  is  a  strong 
probability  that  he  was  a  liberally  educated  man. 

There  seems  to  be  no  written  record  of  the  exist- 
ence of  such  an  edifice  as  that  which  we  are  describing 
by  any  contemporary  writer,  except  in  the  Journal  of 
Rev.  George  Whitefield,  the  celebrated  evangelist,  who 
traversed  this  country  several  times,  preaching  every- 
where with  a  popularity  and  success  Avhich  have  never 
been  equalled  by  any  other.  It  will  be  proper,  there- 
fore, to  extract  the  paragraph  which  relates  to  this 
subject;  as  he  gives  the  dimensions  of  the  building, 
and  expressly  says  that  it  had  obtained  the  name  of 
"THE  COLLEGE."  "The  place,"  says  he,  "wherein 
the  young  men  study  now,  is  in  contempt  called  The 
College.  It  is  a  log  house,  about  twenty  feet  long,  and 
near  as  many  broad ;  and  to  me  it  seemed  to  resemble 
the  school  of  the  old  prophets,  for  their  habitations 
were  mean;  and  that  they  sought  not  great  things  for 
themselves  is  plain  from  those  passages  of  Scripture, 
wherein  we  are  told  that  each  of  them  took  them  a 
beam  to  build  them  a  house :  and  that  at  the  feast  of 
the  sons  of  the  prophets,  one  of  them  put  on  the  pot, 
whilst  the  others  went  to  fetch  some  herbs  out  of  the 
field.  All  that  we  can  say  of  most  of  our  universities 
is,  they  are  glorious  without.  From  this  despised 
place,  seven  or  eight  worthy  ministers  of  Jesus  have 
lately  been  sent  forth;  more  are  almost  ready  to  be 
sent,  and  the  foundation  is  now  laying  for  the  instruc- 
tion of  many  others."  The  Journal,  from  which  the 
preceding  extract  is  taken,  was  printed  in  Philadel- 
phia, by  Benjamin  Franklin,  the  same  year  in  which 
Mr.  Whitefield  visited  the  Log  College.  From  this 
testimony  it  appears,  that  the  name  College  was  given 
to  the  building  out  of  contempt,  by  its  enemies;  but 

*  Sco  Records  of  the  i^yuoJ  of  Philadelphia. 


12  TUELOGCOLLEGE. 

iu  this,  as  in  many  other  things,  that  which  is  lightly 
esteemed  among  men,  is  precious  in  the  sight  of  the 
Lord.  Though  as  poor  a  house  as  perhaps  was  ever 
erected  for  the  purpose  of  giving  a  liberal  education,  it 
was,  in  a  noble  sense,  a  college;  a  fountain,  from 
which,  as  we  shall  see  hereafter,  proceeded  streams  of 
blessings  to  the  church.  We  shall  again  have  occasion 
to  advert  to  Mr.  Whitefield's  Journal,  when  we  come 
to  speak  of  the  founder  of  this  College ;  but  we  shall 
now  proceed  to  finish  what  we  have  to  say  respecting 
the  site  and  the  building. 

When  the  General  Assembly  of  the  Presbyterian 
Church  in  the  United  States  determined,  in  the  year 
1811,  to  establish  a  Theological  Seminary,  for  the  more 
thorough  training  of  her  candidates  for  the  sacred  office, 
there  was  much  diversity  of  opinion  respecting  the 
most  eligible  site  for  the  institution.  Between  Prince- 
ton, New  Jersey,  and  Chambersburg,  Pennsylvania,  the 
chief  competition  existed ;  but  there  were  a  few  persons 
Avho  were  strongly  in  favour  of  placing  it  on  the  very 
site  of  the  Log  College.  The  llev.  Nathaniel  Irwin, 
then  pastor  of  the  church  at  Neshaminy,  and  a  man 
of  profound  understanding,  Avas  earnestly  desirous  that 
it  should  be  planted  on  the  grovmd  where  a  building 
had  once  stood,  to  which  the  Presbyterian  church  owes 
so  much.  And  to  manifest  his  sincerity  and  zeal,  Mr. 
Irwin  left,  in  his  will,  one  thousand  dollars  to  the  Sem- 
inary, on  condition  that  it  should  be  ultimately  located 
on  this  site. 


CHAPTER  II. 

MEMOIR   OP  THE   REV.  WM.  TENNENT,  SEN. 


A  minister  of  the  Irish  Episcopal  Church — Emigrates  with  his  family  to 
America — Applies  for  admission  into  the  Synod  and  is  received — Settles 
permanently  at  Neshaminy— Erects  the  Log  College— Visits  Whitcfield, 
and  ia  visited  by  him — His  character  and  death. 

We  come  now  to  give  some  account  of  the  founder 
of  the  Log  College.  The  Rev.  William  Tennent, 

=== EXCERPT 2: Chapter II, "Memoir of the Rev. Wm. Tennent, Sen." (pp. 13-23) ===

[[p. 13]]
of  the  Log  College.  The  Rev.  William  Tennent, 
sen.,  was  a  native  of  Ireland,  where  he  was  brought 
up  and  received  a  liberal  education ;  but  at  what  col- 
lege or  university  is  not  known.  It  is  probable,  how- 
ever, that  he  obtained  his  learning  at  Trinity  College, 
Dublin,  as  he  belonged  originally  to  the  Episcopal 
Church  of  Ireland,  in  which  he  took  orders.  By  a 
small  memorandum  book  kept  by  the  Rev.  William  Ten- 
nent, sen.,  it  appears  that  he  was  married  to  a  daughter 
of  the  Rev.  Mr.  Kennedy,  May,  1702,  in  the  county 
of  Down,  in  the  north  of  Ireland ;  that  he  was  or- 
dained a  deacon,  in  the  Episcopal  church  of  Ireland 
on  the  1st  day  of  July,  1704 ;  and  ordained  priest  on 
the  22d  of  September,  1706.  After  entering  the  holy 
ministry,  he  acted  as  chaplain  to  an  Irish  nobleman. 
But  there  is  no  evidence  that  he  was  ever  settled  over 
a  parish  in  that  country;  the  reason  assigned  by  the 
author  of  the  Memoir  of  William  Tennent,  jr.,  was  that 
he  could  not  conscientiously  conform  to  the  terms  im- 
posed on  the  clergy  of  that  kingdom.  He  remained  in 
Ireland  until  he  was  past  middle  age.  The  truth  is,  that 
very  little  is  kno^Mi  of  Mr.  Tennent  until  he  arrived  in 
America.  From  Dr.  Elias  Boudinot,  who  was  very 
intimate  with  the  whole  family,  we  learn  that  Mr. 
2  (13) 


[[p. 14]]
14  THE    LOG     COLLEGE. 

Tennent,  in  Ireland,  became  acquainted  with  the  Rev. 
Mr.  Kennedy,  a  distinguished  Presbyterian  preacher, 
who,  having  suiFered  persecution  in  his  own  country, 
exercised  his  ministry  in  Holland  with  great  success. 
The  only  other  notice  of  this  zealous  and  evangelical 
preacher  which  has  been  found  is  in  the  "  Vindication" 
by  the  Rev.  Samuel  Blair,  in  which,  speaking  of  the 
objections  made  to  the  revival,  he  says,  "  Several  have 
very  sufficiently  answered  the  objections  against  the 
work  itself,  as  Mr.  Edwards  in  New  England,  Mr 
Dickinson  in  New  Jersey,  Mr.  Finley  in  Pennsylvania, 
Mr.  Robe  and  Mr.  Webster  in  Scotland,  and  Mr.  Ken- 
nedy in  Holland."  He  then  remarks  that  Mr.  Ken- 
nedy had  published  Mr.  Edwards's  "Narrative,"  with 
attestations  from  Scotland,  translated  by  him  into  the 
Dutch  language.  It  would  be  very  desirable  to  obtain 
some  further  information  of  this  Mr.  Kennedy,  who  is 
spoken  of  as  a  man  of  like  spirit  with  Edwards,  and 
Dickinson,  and  Robe,  and  Webster,  and  Finley.  But, 
probably,  there  remains  no  earthly  record  of  his  labours, 
his  sufferings,  and  successes. 

Our  attention  has  been  directed  to  this  man,  -not 
merely  because  Mr.  Tennent  became  acquainted  with 
him,  but  especially  because  he  married  his  daughter, 
who  was  the  mother  of  his  four  sons,  and  emigrated 
with  him  to  America.  And  it  is  exceedingly  probable 
that  from  this  man,  Mr.  Tennent  imbibed  his  love  of 
the  Presbyterian  system.  Mr.  Tennent's  eldest  son 
was  no  doubt  called  after  his  grandfather  Kennedy, 
whose  name  was  Gilbert. 

In  the  Memoir  of  William  Tennent,  jr.,  it  is  said 
that  his  father  arrived  in  America  in  the  year  1718 ; 
but  in  the  sketch  of  the  life  of  Gilbert  Tennent,  in  the 
Assembly's  Magazine,  for  May,  1805,  "  that  he  came 
over  in  1716,"  which  last  is  believed  to  be  the  more 
accurate  statement.  Upon  his  arrival,  he  settled  first 
in  the  state  of  New  York,  where  he  resided  for  some 
time  at  East  Chester,  and  then  at  Bedford.  Not  long 
after  his  emigration  to  America,  Mr.  Tennent  applied 


[[p. 15]]
THE    REV.    WM.    TENNENT,    SEN.  15 

to  the  Synod  of  Philadelphia,  to  be  received,  as  a  minis- 
ter, into  their  connexion.  The  Synod  did  not  act  hastily 
in  this  affair,  but  after  full  deliberation,  agreed  to 
receive  Mr.  Tcnnent  as  a  member  of  their  body.  Be- 
fore doing  this,  however,  they  required  him  to  lay 
before  them,  in  writing,  the  reasons  which  had  induced 
him  to  separate  himself  from  the  Episcopal  church. 
And  these  reasons  were  ordered  to  be  entered  on 
record.  The  minute  of  the  Synod,  as  found  in  the 
printed  book  of  records  of  the  Presbyterian  church,  is 
as  follows :  "  Mr.  William  Tennent's  affair  being  trans- 
mitted by  the  committee  [of  overtures]  to  the  Synod, 
was  by  them  fully  considered,  being  well  satisfied  with 
his  credentials,  and  the  testimony  of  some  brethren 
here  present ;  as  also,  they  were  satisfied  with  the  ma- 
terial reasons  which  he  offered  concerning  his  dissent- 
ing from  the  Established  Church  of  Ireland ;  being  put 
to  a  vote  of  the  Synod,  it  was  carried  in  the  aflSlrmative 
to  admit  him  as  a  member  of  the  Synod.  Ordered, 
that  his  reasons  be  inserted  on  the  Synod  book  ad  fu- 
turam  rci  memoriam.  The  Synod  also  ordered  that 
the  modei*ator  should  give  him  a  serious  exhortation  to 
continue  steadfast  in  his  now  holy  profession,  which 
was  done."* 


*  "  The  reasons  of  Mr.  AVilliam  Tcnnent  for  his  dissenting  from  the 
Established  Church  in  Ireland,  delivered  by  him  to  the  Reverend  Synod, 
held  in  Philadelphia,  the  17th  day  of  September,  1718. 

"fiiqirim  is.  Their  government  by  Bishops,  Arch-Bishops,  Deacons,  Arch- 
Deacons,  Canons,  Chapters,  Chancellors,  Vicars,  wholly  anti-scriptural. 

"2.  Their  discipline  by  Surrogates,  and  Chancellors  in  their  Courts 
Ecclesiastic,  without  a  foundation  in  the  word  of  God. 

"  3.  Their  abuse  of  that  supposed  discipline  by  commutation. 

"4.  A  Diocesan  Bishop  cannot  bo  founded  jure  divino  upon  those 
Epistles  to  Timothy  or  Titus,  nor  any  where  else  in  the  word  of  God,  and 
60  is  a  mere  human  invention. 

"  5.  The  usurped  power  of  the  Bishops  at  their  yearly  visitations,,  act- 
ing all  of  themselves,  without  the  consent  of  the  brethren. 

"  6.  Pluralities  of  benefices. 

"  Lastly.  The  Churches  conniving  at  the  practice  of  Arminian  doctrines 
inconsistent  with  the  eternal  purpose  of  God,  and  an  encouragement  of 
vice.  Besides,  I  could  not  be  satisfied  with  their  ceremonial  way  of  wor- 
ship. These,  Ac,  have  so  afiTcctcd  ray  conscience,  that  I  could  no  longer 
abide  in  a  church  where  the  same  arc  practised.     Signed  by 

•'  William  Tennent." 


[[p. 16]]
16  THELOGCOLLEGE. 

This  transaction  took  place  on  the  17th  day  of  Sep- 
tember, 1718;  it  is  probable,  however,  that  Mr.  Ten- 
ncnt's  application  was  first  made  to  the  Synod  the 
previous  year ;  although  nothing  appears  on  the  records 
relative  to  this  matter.  But  in  the  short  account  of 
the  Rev.  William  Tennent,  sen.,  in  the  Assembly's 
Magazine,  it  is  stated,  that  after  some  delay,  he  was 
received.  And  the  minute  recited  above  seems  to 
speak  of  it  as  a  thing  before  under  consideration ;  for 
it  would  be  very  abrupt  and  unusual  to  speak  of  a  first 
application  in  the  language  here  used — "Mr.  Tennent's 
afiair,"  &c.,  without  any  notice  of  any  application  made 
by  him.  It  is  probable  that  the  application  to  Synod 
was  made  in  the  year  17 17,  which  was  the  next  year 
after  his  arrival. 

Whether  Mr.  Tennent  had  the  pastoral  care  of  a 
church  in  the  state  of  New  York,  does  •  not  appear ; 
but  about  the  year  1721,  he  received  an  invitation  to 
settle  at  Bensalem,  in  Bucks  county,  Pennsylvania,  to 
which  place  he  removed  his  family,  and  continued  to 
supply  that  small  Presbyterian  congregation  until  the 
year  1726,  when  he  received  a  call  to  the  Presbyterian 
church  at  Neshaminy,  in  the  same  county.  In  this 
place  he  continued  the  remainder  of  his  life.  And 
here,  within  a  few  steps  of  his  own  dwelling,  he  erected 
the  building  which  has  already  been  described  ;  which, 
though  humble  and  even  despicable  in  its  external  ap- 
pearance, was  an  institution  of  unspeakable  importance 
to  the  Presbyterian  church  in  this  country. 

It  may  be  proper  to  remark,  in  this  place,  that  from 
all  the  accounts  which  we  have,  it  appears,  that  at  this 
time,  the  state  of  vital  piety  was  very  low  in  the  Pres- 
byterian church  in  America.  And  the  same  was  true 
of  the  churches  in  New  England.  And  this  was  re- 
markably the  fact  in  regard  to  Great  Britain.  The 
ministers  composing  the  Presbyterian  church,  in  this 
country,  were  sound  in  the  faith,  and  strongly  attached 
to  the  Westminster  Confession  of  Faith  and  Catechisms, 
as  were  also  their  people ;  and  there  were  no  diversities 


[[p. 17]]
THE    REV.    WM.    TENNENT,    SEN.  17 

or  contentions  among  thcra  respecting  the  doctrines  of 
the  gospel ;  but  as  to  the  vital  power  of  godliness,  there 
is  reason  to  believe  that  it  was  little  known  or  spoken 
of./  Revivals  of  religion  were  nowhere  heard  of,  and 
an  orthodox  creed,  and  a  decent  external  conduct  were 
the  only  points  on  Avhich  iiKjuiry  was  made  when  per- 
sons were  admitted  to  the  communion  of  the  church. 
Indeed,  it  was  very  mucli  a  matter  of  course,  for  all 
who  had  been  baptized  in  infancy,  to  be  received  into 
communion  at  the  proper  age,  without  exhibiting  or 

{)ossessing  any  satisfactory  evidence  of  a  change  of 
icart  by  the  supernatural  operations  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 
And  the  habit  of  the  preachers  was  to  address  their 
people  as  though  they  W'Cre  all  pious,  and  only  needed 
instruction  and  confirmation.  It  was  not  a  common 
thing  to  denounce  the  terrors  of  a  violated  law,  and  to 
insist  on  the  absolute  necessity  of  regeneration.  Under 
such  a  state  of  things,  it  is  easy  to  conceive,  that  in  a 
short  time  vital  piety  may  have  almost  deserted  the 
church,  and  that  formality  and  "dead  orthodoxy"  have 
been  all  that  was  left  of  religion.  And  nothing  is  more 
certain,  than  that  when  people  have  sunk  into  this  de- 
plorable state  they  will  be  disposed  to  manifest  strong 
opposition  to  faithful,  pointed  preaching ;  and  will  be 
apt  to  view  every  appearance  of  revival  with  an  unfa- 
vourable eye.  Accordingly,  when  God  raised  up 
preachers,  animated  with  a  bm-ning  zeal,  who  laboured 
faithfully  to  convince  their  hearers  of  their  ruined  con- 
dition, and  of  the  necessity  of  a  thorough  conversion  from 
sin,  the  opposition  to  them,  both  in  Great  Britain  and 
this  country,  was  violent.  The  gospel,  among  people 
in  such  a  condition,  is  sure  to  produce  strife  and  divi- 
sion between  those  who  fall  under  its  influence  and 
those  Avhose  carnal  minds  urge  them  to  oppose  it.  It 
was  in  such  a  state  of  tJie  clmrch  that  Mr.  Tennent 
came  to  this  country.  What  his  own  course  of  religious 
experience  had  been,  we  have  no  information ;  but  he 
seems  to  have  imbibed  a  warm,  evangelical  spirit,  and 
to  have  been,  in  this  coimtry,  distinguished  for  his  zeal 
2  * 


[[p. 18]]
18  THE    LOG    COLLEGE. 

and  efforts  in  promoting  vital  piety.  When  Mr.  White- 
field  first  visited  Philadelphia,  Mr.  Tenncnt  lost  no 
time  in  calling  upon  him.  Though  he  lived  nearly  twenty 
miles  from  Philadelphia,  yet  no  sooner  did  he  hear  of 
the  arrival  of  this  evangelical  and  successful  preacher, 
than  taking  with  him  some  of  his  pious  friends,  he  re- 
paired to  the  city,  and  from  Mr.  Whitefield's  Journal, 
we  learn  that  the  visit  was  very  acceptable  to  him ; 
for  he  says,  "At  my  return  home  [from  visiting  a 
family]  was  much  comforted  by  the  coming  of  one  Mr. 
Tennent,  an  old  gray-headed  disciple  and  soldier  of 
Jesus  Christ.  He  keeps  an  academy  about  twenty 
miles  from  Philadelphia,  and  has  been  blessed  with 
four  gracious  sons,  three  of  which  have  been,  and  still 
continue  to  be,  eminently  useful  in  the  church  of 
Christ.  He  brought  three  pious  souls  along  with  him, 
and  rejoiced  me  by  lettuig  me  know  how  they  had  been 
spoken  evil  of  for  their  Master's  sake.  He  is  a  great 
friend  of  Mr.  Erskine,  of  Scotland ;  and  as  far  as  I 
can  learn,  both  he  and  his  sons,  are  secretly  despised 
by  the  generality  of  the  Synod,  as  Mr.  Erskine  and 
his  friends  are  hated  by  the  judicatories  of  Edinburgh, 
and  as  the  Methodist  preachers  (as  they  are  called) 
are  by  their  brethren  in  England."  This  testimony 
of  Mr.  Whitefield  goes  to  show  that  the  course  pursued 
by  old  Mr.  Tennent  and  his  sons  was  different  from 
that  of  the  other  ministers  of  the  Synod,  to  whom  he 
stood  in  the  same  relation  as  Whitefield,  Wesley,  and 
their  coadjutors,  to  the  great  body  of  the  clergy  in 
England.  Mr.  Whitefield,  on  his  return  from  New 
York,  went  to  Neshaminy,  and  spent  some  days  with 
Mr.  Tennent. 

Here  again  we  arc  glad  to  have  the  opportunity  of 
using  the  very  words  of  jNIr.  AVhitefield. 

"Nov.  22.  [17311.]  Set  out  for  Neshaminy,  (twenty 
miles  distant  from  Trent  Town,)  where  old  Mr.  Ten- 
nent lives,  and  keeps  an  academy,  and  where  I  was  to 
preach  to-day,  according  to  appointment.  About  12 
fo'clock]  we  came  thither,  and  found  about  three  thou- 


THE    llEV.    WM.    TENNENT,    SEN.'  19 

sand  people  gathered  together,  in  the  meeting-house 
yard.  Mr.  ^Villianl  Tcnncnt,  jr.,  an  eminent  servant 
of  Jesus  Christ,  because  we  stayed  beyond  the  time  ap- 
pointed, was  preaching  to  them.  When  I  came  up, 
he  soon  sto])t;  sung  a  psalm,  and  then  I  began  to 
speak,  as  the  Lord  gave  me  utterance.  At  hrst,  the 
people  seemed  unaftectcd,  but  in  the  midst  of  my  dis- 
course, the  power  of  the  Lord  Jesus  came  upon  me, 
and  I  felt  such  a  struggling  within  myself  for  the 
people,  as  I  scarce  ever  felt  before.  The  hearers 
began  to  be  melted  down  immediately,  and  to  cry 
much;  and  we  had  good  reason  to  hope  the  Lord  in- 
tended good  for  many.  After  I  liad  finished,  Mr. 
Gilbert  Tcnnont  gave  a  word  of  exhortation,  to  confirm 
what  had  been  delivered.  At  the  end  of  his  discourse, 
we  sung  a  psalm,  and  dismissed  the  people  with  a 
blessing:  0  that  the  people  may  say  amen  to  it!  After 
our  exercises  were  over  we  went  to  old  Mr.  Tennent's, 
who  entertained  us  like  one  of  the  ancient  patriarchs. 
His  wife,  to  me  seemed  like  Elizabeth,  and  he  like 
Zachary ;  both,  as  far  as  I  can  learn,  walk  in  all  the 
commandments  and  ordinances  of  the  Lord,  blameless. 
Though  God  was  pleased  to  humble  my  soul,  so  that  I 
was  obliged  to  retire  for  a  while ;  yet  we  had  sweet 
communion  with  each  other,  and  spent  the  evening  in 
concerting  what  measures  had  best  be  taken  for  pro- 
moting our  dear  Lord's  kingdom.  It  happened  very 
providentially  that  Mr.  Tcnnent  and  his  brethren  are 
appointed  to  be  a  Presbytery  by  the  Synod,  so  that 
they  intend  bringing  up  gracious  youths,  and  sending 
them  out  from  time  to  time  into  the  Lord's  vineyard. 
The  place  wherein  the  young  men  study,  now  is,  in 
contempt,  called  THE  cot.leoe,  &c.  Friday,  Nov.  23 : 
Parted  with  dear  Mr.  Tennent,  and  his  other  worthy 
fellow-labourcis ;  but  promised  to  remember  each  other 
publicly  in  our  jiraycrs." 

From  the  preceding  extract  we  learn  that  Mr.  Ten- 
nent was  a  man  of  congenial  spirit  with  Mr.  Whitefield, 
and  that  he  was  held  in  high  esteem  by  this  distinguished 


[[p. 20]]
20  THE    LOG     COLLEGE. 

preacher  and  devoted  servant  of  God.  Of  scarcely  any 
other  minister  of  any  denomination  does  he  make  so 
honourable  a  mention,  and  to  no  other  in  this  region 
did  he  pay  so  respectful  an  attention.  It  is  certain, 
from  the  foregoing  account,  that  Mr.  Tennent  was  dis- 
tinguished among  his  brethren,  as  the  open  and  zealous 
friend  of  vital  piety,  and  of  revivals  of  religion.  The 
character  of  his  public  preaching  is  nowhere  given,  and 
we  are  left  to  infer  it  from  his  character;  or  rather 
from  the  character  of  his  pupils,  of  whom  an  account 
will  be  given  hereafter.  As  a  classical  scholar,  there 
can  be  no  doubt  of  his  eminence.  The  late  Hon.  Elias 
Boudinot,  LL. D.,  who  knew  him  well,  says,  "that  he 
was  well  skilled  in  the  Latin  language,  that  he  could 
speak  and  converse  in  it  with  as  much  facility  as  in  his 
vernacular  tongue,  and  also,  that  he  was  a  proficient 
in  the  other  ancient  languages.  In  confirmation  of 
what  he  says  about  his  skill  in  the  Latin  language,  he 
relates,  that  at  the  next  meeting  of  the  Synod  of  Phila- 
delphia after  his  reception,  he  delivered  before  that 
body  an  elegant  Latin  oration.  The  writer  of  a  sketch 
of  the  life  of  the  Rev.  Gilbert  Tennent,  inserted  in  the 
May  number  of  the  Assembly's  Magazine,  for  the  year 
1805,  says,  respecting  the  Rev.  "William  Tennent,  sen. : 
"He  was  eminent  as  a  classical  scholar.  His  attain- 
ments in  science  are  not  so  well  known ;  but  there  is 
reason  to  believe  they  Avere  not  so  great  as  his  skill  in 
language.  His  general  character  appears  to  have  been 
that  of  a  man  of  great  integrity,  simplicity,  industry, 
and  piety." 

Mr.  Tennent  was,  by  his  position  at  Neshaminy,  a 
member  of  the  Presbytery  of  Philadelphia;  but  Avhen 
the  division  of  the  Synod  took  place,  he  attached  him- 
self to  the  New  Brunswick  Presbytery,  to  which  his 
sons  Gilbert  and  William  belonged. 

It  appears  from  the  published  records  of  the  Synod 
of  Philadelphia,  that  in  the  year  1737,  a  complaint 
was  made  to  the  Synod,  by  a  part  of  the  congregation 
of  Neshaminy,  against  the  Rev.  William  Tennent,  their 


[[p. 21]]
THE    REV.     WM.     TENNENT,     SEN.  21 

pastor ;  and  also  an  answer  to  the  same,  from  another 
part  of.  the  said  congregation.  Both  of  these  papers 
were  read,  article  by  article,  and  both  parties  heard 
at  length  what  they  had  to  say.  Mr.  Thomson  was 
directed  to  prepare  a  minute  which  should  express  the 
mind  of  the  Synod,  in  relation  to  this  matter ;  which 
being  done,  was  adopted,  viz.  "That  the  reasons  ad- 
vanced by  the  disaffected  party  of  that  congregation, 
in  justification  of  their  non-compliance  with  the  Synod's 
judgment  in  relation  to  them,  last  year,  and  their  desire 
to  be  freed  from  Mr.  Tennent  as  their  pastor,  are  utterly 
insufficient,  being  founded  (as  appears  to  us),  partly 
upon  ignorance  and  mistake,  and  partly  (as  we  fear) 
upon  prejudice.  It  is  therefore  ordered,  that  the  mode- 
rator recommend  it  to  said  people  to  lay  aside  such 
groundless  dissatisfactions  and  return  to  their  duty, 
which  they  have  too  long  strayed  from ;  otherwise,  the 
Synod  will  be  bound  to  treat  them  as  disQi'derly." 
This  minute  was  unanimously  approved. 

The  matter  referred  to,  as  having  been  before  the 
Synod  the  preceding  year,  was,  that  though  Mr.  Ten- 
nent had  so  long  acted  as  the  pastor  of  the  church  at 
Ncshaminy,  he  had  never  been  formally  installed.  In 
regard  to  which,  the  Synod  had  come  to  the  following 
judgment:  "That  it  appears  evident  to  the  Synod, 
that  Mr.  Tennent  having  in  all  respects  acted  and  been 
esteemed,  and  looked  upon,  not  only  by  the  Synod, 
but  by  the  congregation  of  Ncshaminy,  and  particu- 
larly by  the  appellants  themselves,  as  the  minister  and 
pastor  of  the  people  of  Ncshaminy,  that  he  is  still  to 
be  esteemed  as  the  pastor  of  that  ])eople,  notwithstand- 
ing the  want  of  a  formal  instalment  among  them." 

For  some  time  before  his  death  his  health  was  so 
feeble,  that  he  was  unable  to  perform  the  duties  of  the 
pastoral  office,  and  his  pulpit  was  supplied  by  the  Pres- 
bytery, In  the  year  1742,  we  find  the  following 
minute  on  the  records  of  the  Presbytery.  "Mr.  Wil- 
liam Tennent,  sen.,  gave  in  to  Presbytery  a  paper,  set- 
tmg  forth  his  inability,  by  reason  of  advanced  age,  to 


22  THE    LOa    COLLEGE. 

discharge  the  work  of  the  ministry  unto  the  congrega- 
tion of  Ncshaminy,  over  wliich,  for  divers  years  past 
he  has  been  overseer — desiring  the  Presbytery  to  grant 
to  said  congregation  of  Neshaminy,  such  supplies  as 
they  can."  We  find  his  name  enrolled  among  the 
members  of  tlie  New  BrunsAvick  Presbytery,  in  the  fol- 
lowing year  (17 4o),  and  in  the  same  year,  he  is  men- 
tioned as  present  when  the  Presbytery  met  to  ordain 
Mr.  Beatty  as  his  successor.  It  is  evident  from  this, 
that  he  had  resigned  his  charge,  for  Mr.  Beatty  is  not 
said  to  have  been  ordained  as  his  colleague.  This 
seems  to  have  been  the  last  meeting  of  Presbytery 
which  he  ever  attended.  His  connection  with  the  con- 
gregation was,  no  doubt,  dissolved  at  the  time  when  he 
presented  the  paper  stating  his  inability  to  fulfil  the 
duties  of  a  pastor;  for,  in  the  same  year,  a  call  was 
presented  to  Mr.  William  Robinson,  wluch  he  declined ; 
and  after  this,  in  1748,  Mr.  Beatty  having  accepted 
the  call  of  the  people,  was  ordained  their  pastor  in  the 
month  of  October. 

It  is  stated  in  the  sketch  of  the  life  of  Gilbert  Tcn- 
nent,  in  the  Assembly's  Magazine,  that  the  Rev.  Wil- 
liam Tennent,  sen.,  died  in  the  year  1743 ;  but  this  is 
not  correct ;  for  we  find  a  record  in  the  minutes  of  the 
New  Brunswick  Presbytery  for  the  year  1746,  of  the 
following  import:  "It  is  reported  to  the  Presbytery 
that  Mr.  William  Tennent,  son.,  deceased,  since  our 
last."  The  exact  date  of  his  death  was  May  6,  1746, 
aged  73.  This  was  communicated  to  the  author  by 
the  Rev.  Dr.  Miller,  who  transcribed  it  from  his  tomb- 
stone. 

He  died  at  his  own  house,  in  Neshaminy,  and  came 
to  the  grave  in  a  good  old  age,  like  a  shock  of  corn 
fully  ripe.  lie  was  buried  in  the  Presbyterian  bury- 
mg-ground,  where  his  tomb  may  be  yet  seen. 

Mr.  Tennent,  as  far  as  we  know,  never  published 
anything.  We  have,  therefore,  no  means  of  ascertain- 
ing his  abilities  as  a  writer;  but  the  benefit  he  con- 
ferred on  the  church  by  his  school  can  never  be  for- 


[[p. 23]]
THE    REV.     WM.     TENNENT,     SEN.  23 

gotten.  The  Presbyterian  churcli  is  probably  not 
more  indebted  for  her  prosperity,  and  for  the  evan- 
gelical spirit  -whicli  has  generally  pervaded  her  body, 
to  any  individual  than  to  the  elder  Tennent.  Some 
men  accomplish  much  more  By  those  whom  they  edu- 
cate, than  ])y  their  own  personal  labours.  This  should 
be  an  encouragement  to  such  ministers  as  are  obliged 
to  resort  to  teaching  for  their  own  support.  If  they 
are  so  favoured  as  to  be  the  means  of  bringing  forward 
a  few  pious  youth,  and  preparing  them  for  the  minis- 
try, they  may  do  more  good  than  if  their  whole  lives 
had  been  spent  in  doing  nothing  else  but  preaching 
the  Gospel.  And  it  is  good  policy  for  Presbyterian 
ministers  to  establish  schools,  in  their  charges,  wher- 
ever they  are  needed.  And  this  they  may  do,  without 
subjecting  themselves  to  the  drudgery  of  teaching  all 
the  time.  Pious  young  men  might  be  found,  to  whom 
such  a  situation  would  be  a  favour ;  and  such  institu- 
tions are  often  necessary  to  enable  a  minister  to  edu- 
cate his  own  sons.  When  the  means  of  acquiring  a 
liberal  education  are  brought  to  the  doors  of  the  peo- 
ple, many  will  avail  themselves  of  the  privilege,  who 
would  never  have  thought  of  going  abroad  for  the 
same  purpose.  The  truth  of  this  remark  has  been 
verified  in  almost  every  place  where  a  good  school  has 
been  established. 

It  is  to  be  regretted  that  our  materials  for  a  memoir 
of  the  Founder  of  the  Lo(J  College  are  so  scanty;  but 
liis  usefulness  must  be  estimated  by  the  character  of 
his  pupils,  of  some  of  whom  we  shall  have  it  in  our 
power  to  give  a  more  particular  account ;  and  to  this 
part  of  our  work  we  shall  now  address  ourselves. 

=== EXCERPT 3: Chapter III, Gilbert Tennent's licensure, the school's curriculum, and the 1738 examination rule (pp. 43-47) ===

[[p. 43]]
shaminy.  It  is  probaljlc  that  Mr.  Gilbert  Tennent  was 
the  first  candidate  licensed  in  the  Presbyterian  Church, 
who  was  educated  Avithin  its  limits.  As  he  was  thir- 
teen or  fourteen  years  of  age,  when  his-  father  arrived, 
it  is  probable  that  his  classical  education  was  com- 
menced before  he  left  Ireland ;  though  the  principal 
part  of  his  education  must  have  been  acquired  here ; 
and  no  doubt,  under  the  paternal  roof.  Although  we 
have  connected  Mr.  Gilbert  Tennent  with  the  Log  Col- 
lege, it  must  be  in  the  character  of  a  teacher,  rather 
than  a  student;  for  in  the  very  year  in  which  his 
father  removed  to  Neshaminy,  he  was  licensed  to 
preach.     This  was  the  year  1726. 

Though  Gilbert  Tennent  had  received  no  diploma 
from  any  college,  yet  he  passed  his  trials  before  the 
mother  Presbytery  of  Philadelphia,  with  great  credit 
to  himself,  and  much  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  Presby- 
tery. It  was  now  seen  that  young  men  could  be  well 
prepared  for  the  ministry  at  home,  without  going  to 
distant  colleges.  As  Mr.  William  Tennent,  the  father, 
had  been,  as  far  as  is  known,  the  sole  instructor  of  his 
son,  who  as  soon  as  licensed,  attracted  public  atten- 
tion, and  was  seen  to  be  an  able  preacher,  the  conclu- 
sion was  easily  drawn,  that  he  would  be  an  excellent 
person  to  train  up  young  men  for  the  ministry.  But  ^ 
though  the  thing  appeared  thus  to  many  plain  and 
pious  people,  others  were  apprehensive,  that  by  edu- 
cating young  men  in  this  way,  the  literary  qualifications 
of  candidates  would  necessarily  be  greatly  diminished. 
The  school,  however,  went  on  prosperously,  and  a 
number  of  young  men  who  had  the  ministry  in  view, 
[[p. 44]]


44  T  II  E    L  0  G     C  0  L  L  E  G  E. 

resorted  to  the  Log  College  to  pursue  their  education ; 
and  here,  they  were  not  only  taught  the  classics,  but 
studied  divinity  also ;  so  that  this  institution  was  a 
theological  seminary,  as  well  as  a  college.  How  many 
years  they  were  occupied  with  these  studies  does  not 
appear;  but  a  number  of  persons  educated  in  this 
school  were  licensed  by  the  Presbyteries,  after  under- 
going such  trials  as  were  usually  prescribed  to  candi- 
dates in  Scotland  and  Ireland.  Some  of  them,  as  Ave 
shall  see,  became  eminent  in  the  church,  and  were 
much  distinguished  as  powerful  and  evangelical  preach- 
ers. Still  the  impression  existed,  and  grew  stronger, 
that  this  course  of  instruction  was  not  sufficient.  To 
men  educated  in  the  universities  of  Europe,  furnished 
with  so  many  professors,  and  other  advantages,  it 
seemed  preposterous  to  suppose  that  a  man  could 
acquire  adequate  learning  for  the  ministry  in  this  little 
paltry  log  cabin ;  and  instructed,  principally,  by  ojie 
teacher.  They  began,  therefore,  in  the  Synod,  to 
talk  of  establishing  a  Synodical  school,  and  to  express 
dissatisfaction  with  the  course  of  study  in  the  Log 
College,  as  it  was  contemptuously  called.  None 
doubted  of  old  Mr.  Tennent's  classical  scholarship  ; 
but  it  was  believed  that  his  proficiency  in  the  arts  and 
sciences  was  by  no  means  equal  to  his  classical  learn- 
ing. As  young  men  Avere  still  entering  the  church 
from  this  school,  the  Synod  adopted  a  rule,  that  no 
Presbytery  should  license  any  young  man  until  he  had 
passed  an  examination  on  his  literary  course  before  a 
committee  of  Synod.  Two  large  committees,  one  for 
the  northern  part  of  the  Synod,  and  the  other  for  the 
south,  were  appointed,  before  whom  young  men  were 
to  appear  and  submit  to  an  examination.  This  rule 
gave  great  dissatisfaction  to  the  Tennents  and  their 
friends ;  for  they  perceived,  at  once,  that  this  rule  was 
intended  to  bear  on  the  students  of  the  Log  College, 
and  they  believed  it  to  be  a  high-handed  measm-e, 
entirely  inconsistent  with  the  rights  of  Presbyteries, 
who,  as  they  had  the  power  of  ordaining  ministers, 


[[p. 45]]
THE    REV.     CilLBERT    TENNENT.  4o 

oucrht  to  possess  the  power  of  judging  of  their  qualifi- 
caSons.     What  rendered  the  measure  more  odious  to 
them,  they  had  just  succeeded  in  getting  a  Presbytery 
set  off,  in  New  Jersey,  which  included  most  of  the 
friends  of  the  Log  College.     Their  object  in  getting 
this  Presbytery  erected,   as   they  confessed   to    Mr. 
Whitefield,  was,  that  they  might  license  such  young 
men  as  they  deemed  properly  qualified  for  the  oflice ; 
and,  in  their  opinion,  fervent  piety  was  the  first  and 
principal  qualification.    Though  they  believed  a  classical 
education  necessary,  yet  it  seems    that  they  lightly 
esteemed  some  parts  of  learning,  which  the  other  mem- 
bers of  the  Synod  thought  requisite.    While  they  were 
blamed  for  being  too  lax  in  their  demands  of  a  know- 
\c(\<re  of  literature  and  science,  they  seriously  charged 
the°majority  of  the  Synod  with  neglectmg  to  make  a 
thorou<^h  examination  into  the  piety  of  their  candi- 
dates. ^  On   several  occasions,  Mr.   Gilbert    Tenncnt 
brought  this  matter  before  the  Synod,  and  obtained 
from°them  some  formal  resolutions,  m  favour  of  in- 
quiring carefully  into  the  personal  piety  of  the  can- 
didates. 

When  the  order  was  passed,  rendering  it  necessary 
for  candidates  to  appear  before  a  committee  of  the 
Synod,  Mr.  Gilbert  Tennent  and  his  friends  entered 
their  protest  against  the  regulation.  But  to  be  more 
exact  in  regard  to  this  first  measure,  which  divided  the 
Synod  into  two  parties,  it  will  be  proper  to  observe, 
that  the  regulation  adopted  in  the  year  1738,  was  oc- 
casioned by  an  overture  from  the  Presbytery  of  Lewes, 
in  which  they  say,  "  That  this  part  of  the  world,  where 
God  has  ordered  our  lot,  labours  under  grievous  dis- 
advantage for  want  of  the  opportunities  of  universities, 
and  professors  skilled  in  the  several  branches  of  useful 
learning;  and  that  many  students  from  Europe  are 
especiaUy  cramped  in  prosecuting  their  studies ;  then- 
parents  removing  to  these  colonies  before  they  have 
an  opportunity  of  attending  the  college,  after  having 
spent  some  years  at  the  grammar  school;  and  that 


[[p. 46]]
46  TnELOGCOLLEGE. 

many  persons,  born  in  tliis  country,  groan  under  tlie 
same  pressure,  whose  circumstances  are  not  able  to 
support  them  to  spend  a  course  of  years  in  the  Eu- 
ropean or  New  Enghmd  colleges,  which  discourages 
much,  and  must  be  a  detriment  to  our  church,  for  we 
know  that  natural  parts,  however  great  and  promising, 
for  want  of  being  well  improved,  must  be  marred  in 
their  usefulness,  and  cannot  be  so  extensively  service- 
able to  the  public ;  and  that  want  paves  the  way  for 
ignorance,  and  this  for  a  formidable  train  of  sad  con- 
sequences. To  prevent  this  evil,  it  is  humbly  proposed, 
as  a  remedy,  that  every  student,  with  approbation  not 
pursuing  the  usual  courses,  in  some  of  the  New  En- 
gland or  European  colleges  approved  by  public  autho- 
rity, shall,  before  he  be  encouraged  by  any  Presbytery 
for  the  sacred  Avork  of  the  ministry,  apply  himself  to 
this  Synod,  and  that  they  appoint  a  committee  of  their 
members,  yearly,  whom  they  know  to  be  well  skilled 
in  the  several  branches  of  philosophy,  divinity,  and 
the  languages,  to  examine  such  students  in  this  place, 
and  finding  them  well  accomplished  in  these  several 
parts  of  learning,  shall  allow  them  a  public  testimony 
from  the  Synod,  which,  till  better  provision  be  made, 
will,  in  some  measure,  answer  the  design  of  taking  a 
degree  in  college.  And,  for  the  encouragement  of 
students,  let  this  be  done  without  putting  them  to  fui'- 
ther  expenses  than  attending.  And  let  it  be  an  objec- 
tion against  none  where  they  have  studied,  or  what 
books ;  but  let  all  encouragement  be  only  according  to 
merit,  &c."  The  Synod,  by  a  great  majority,  ap- 
proved the  overture,  and  proceeded  to  appoint  two 
committees,  the  one  for  the  region  north  of  Philadel- 
phia, and  the  other  for  the  country  south  of  that 

=== EXCERPT 4: Chapter VII, "The Log College the germ from which proceeded the College of New Jersey" (pp. 76-85) ===

[[p. 76]]


CHAPTER  VII. 


The  Log  College  the  germ  from  which  proceeded  the  College  of  New 
Jersey. 

At  the  time  of  the  disruption  of  the  church,  when 
the  New  Brunswick  Presbytery  was  excluded  by  an 
arbitary  determination  of  the  majority  of  the  Synod, 
the  whole  Presbytery  of  New  York  were  absent.  This 
Presbytery  contained  several  members  of  high  stand- 
ing in  the  church,  such  as  Dickinson  and  Burr ;  and 
although  this  Presbytery  had  not  been  actually  engaged 
in  the  controversy  with  the  ministers  of  Pensylvania 
respecting  the  revival,  and  respecting  Mr.  Whitefield, 
yet  they  sympathized  on  these  subjects  with  the  new 
Brunswick  Presbytery.  They  were,  therefore,  much 
dissatisfied  with  the  proceedings  of  the  Synod  in  the 
excision  of  this  body ;  which,  if  they  had  been  present, 
they  could  probably  have  prevented.  When,  therefore, 
the  Synod  met  the  year  following  the  disruption, 
these  brethren  exerted  themselves  to  get  the  Synod  to 
receive  again  the  excluded  brethren.  When  repeated 
efforts  to  procure  a  restoration  of  the  excluded  breth- 
ren were  without  success,  they  withdrew  from  the 
Synod,  and  connected  themselves  with  the  Presbytery 
of  New  Brunswick  ;  and  these,  with  the  Presbytery  of 
New  Castle,  formed  a  Synod,  and  took  the  name  of  the 
Synod  of  New  York,  which  in  a  short  time  consider- 
ably outnumbered  the  old  Synod. 

The  Log  College,  which  had  done  so  much  and  so 
good  service,  was  now  evidently  on  the  decline.  Its 
venerable  founder,  throiigh  the  infirmities  of  old  age, 
was  no  longer  able  to  act  with  the  energy  of  his  former 
years ;  and,  indeed,  his  strength  had  so  much  failed, 
(76) 


[[p. 77]]
COLLEGE    OFNEW   JERSEY.  '77 

that  soon  after  this  time  he  was  under  the  necessity  of 
applying  to  the  Presbytery  for  aid  in  the  discharge  of 
his  pastoral  duties.  There  was,  therefore,  every  pros- 
pect of  the  speedy  extinction  of  this  humble  school  of 
the  Prophets.  But  the  need  of  a  literary  institution 
of  a  high  character,  where  candidates  for  the  ministry 
might  be  fully  trained,  became  more  evident  every  day. 
The  time  for  the  establishment  of  a  college  in  the 
bounds  of  the  Synod  of  New  York  seemed  to  be  au- 
spicious. While  the  Synod  of  Philadelphia  were 
labouring  to  establish  a  school  for  training  young 
men  at  New  London,  the  Synod  of  New  York  were 
exerting  themselves  to  erect  a  college  which  should 
stand  upon  a  level  with  any  other  institution  in  the 
country. 

Messrs.  Dickinson  and  Burr,  the  former,  pastor  of  the 
Presbyterian  Church  in  Elizabethtown,  and  the  latter, 
in  Newark,  took  the  lead  in  this  enterprise.  Both 
•these  distinguished  divines  were  graduates  of  Yale 
College ;  but  just  at  this  time  their  minds  probably 
experienced  some  alienation  from  their  alma  mater,  on 
account  of  the  harsh  treatment  which  Mr.  David 
Brainerd  had  received  from  the  oflBcers  of  that  col- 
lege ;  for  he  had  been  expelled  merely  for  a  harsh 
word,  spoken  in  a  private  company,  and  overheard  by 
a  student  who  happened  to  be  passing  the  door,  who 
knew  not  to  whom  it  referred.  But  the  persons  pre- 
sent, contrary  to  every  rule  of  propriety,  were  forced 
by  the  faculty  to  testify  to  whiom  reference  was  had. 
Mr.  Brainerd,  at  the  time  of  his  expulsion,  was  a 
member  of  the  Junior  Class.  Having  applied  to  the 
Presbytery  of  New  York,  he  was  taken  under  their 
care,  and  having  manifested  a  strong  desire  to  go  and 
preach  the  gospel  to  the  heathen  in  our  land,  the 
Commissioners  appointed  by  the  Society  in  Scotland, 
to  employ  a  missionary  to  the  Indians,  selected  Mr. 
Brainerd.  It  appears  that  President  Clapp,  in  hi3 
letter  to  the  Synod  of  Philadelphia,  complained  of  the 
New  York  Presbytery  for  receiving  under  their  care 


[[p. 78]]
TS  THE    LOG    COLLEGE. 

! 

persons  who  had  left  the  college  under  censure ;  where 
the  reference  was  undoubtedly  to  David  Brainerd.  A 
strong  desire  was  now  felt  both  by  Mr.  Brainerd  and 
his  friends  to  get  the  stigma  removed  from  his  char- 
acter. To  effect  this  the  Commissioners  who  had 
employed  Mr.  Brainerd,  deputed  the  Rev.  Mr.  Burr, 
one  of  their  number,  to  go  to  Ncav  Haven  at  the  com- 
mencement, when  his  class  were  about  to  be  graduated, 
to  endeavour  to  have  him  restored.  Jonathan  Ed- 
wards also,  who  then  became  acquainted  with  Mr. 
Brainerd,  and  formed  a  strong  attachment  to  him, 
used  all  his  influence  to  accomplish  the  object;  but 
their  efforts  were  ineffectual.  The  faculty  of  the 
college  remained  inflexible,  or  as  it  may  more  pro- 
perly be  termed,  obstinate.  They  did  offer  that  if  he 
would  return  and  remain  another  year  in  college, 
without  giving  offence,  they  would  then  give  him  his 
degree.  But  this  could  not  be  done  without  discon- 
certing the  whole  plan  of  the  mission  for  which  he 
was  engaged,  and  in  which  he  became  so  eminently 
successful.  The  attachment  of  all  the  members  of 
the  New  York  Synod  to  Mr.  Brainerd  was  warm,  and 
deservedly  so.  This  affair,  it  is  very  probable,  quick- 
ened the  zeal  of  these  excellent  men  to  get  up  a  col- 
lege of  their  own.  Some  years  ago,  the  writer  heard 
the  relict  of  the  late  Dr.  Scott,  of  New  Brunswick, 
say,  that  when  she  was  a  little  girl  she  heard  the 
Bev.  Mr.  Burr  declare  in  her  father's  house,  in  New- 
ark, "if  it  had  not  been  for  the  treatment  received 
by  Mr.  Brainerd  at  Yale,  New  Jersey  college  would 
never  have  been  erected."  How  many  influences  are 
made  to  combine  and  operate,  when  Providence  has 
the  design  of  giving  existence  to  an  institution  which 
has  affected,  and  will  still  affect  the  happiness  of 
thousands  ! 

It  was  a  circumstance  favourable  to  the  views  of  the 
friends  of  a  new  college,  that  Mr.  Belcher,  a  man  of 
humble  piety,  and  great  public  spirit,  was  then  the  act- 
ing governor  of  New  Jersey.     It  was,  therefore,  not 


[[p. 79]]
COLLEGE    OF    NEW   JERSEY.  79 

found  difficult  to  enlist  the  zeal  and  exertions  of  this 
excellent  man  in  the  contemplated  enterprise. 

The  first  charter  for  a  college  which  was  obtained 
was  not  satisfactory  to  governor  Belcher,  and  he  suc- 
ceeded in  obtaining  from  the  royal  authority,  the  very 
ample  charter  under  which  the  college  is  now  governed 
and  instructed.  Mr.  Edwards  refers  to  this  matter,  in 
a  letter  addressed  to  the  Rev.  Doctor  Erskine,  of  Edin- 
burgh, who  took  a  lively  interest  in  the  enterprise,  and 
requested  some  information  respecting  the  prospects 
of  the  college. 

"  You  desire  to  be  informed  respecting  the  present 
state  of  New  Jersey  College,  and  of  things  of  a  reli- 
gious nature  respecting  the  Indians.  As  to  the  former, 
viz.,  the  state  of  New  Jersey  college ;  by  the  last  ac- 
counts I  had,  it  is  in  somewhat  of  an  unsettled  state. 
Governor  Belcher  had  a  mind  to  give  them  a  new 
charter,  that  he  thought  would  be  more  for  the  bene- 
fit of  the  society.  Accordingly  the  draft  of  a  new 
charter  was  drawn,  wherein  it  was  proposed  to  make 
considerable  alteration  in  the  corporation  of  trustees 
— to  leave  out  some  of  the  former  trustees,  and  that 
the  governor  and  four  of  the  council  of  that  province 
should  be  put  in  their  place.  These  two  things  made 
considerable  uneasiness,  viz.,  leaving  out  part  of  the 
trustees,  and  making  it  a  part  of  the  constitution, 
that  the  governor  and  so  many  of  the  council  should 
be  members  of  the  corporation  .  ...  As  to  governor 
Belcher  himself,  he  appears  thoroughly  engaged  to 
promote  virtue  and  vital  religion  in  those  parts.  The 
disposition  of  governor  Belcher  may  in  some  measure 
be  seen  in  the  following  extract  of  a  letter  from  him,  in 
answer  to  one  I  wrote  to  him  on  a  special  occasion. 

Burlington,  New  Jersey,  Feb.  5th,  1748. 

"  '  You  will,  sir,  be  sure  of  me  as  a  friend  and  father  to 
the  missionaries  this  way ;  and  of  all  my  might  and  en- 
couragemeut  for  spreading  the  everlasting  gospel  of  God  our  • 


[[p. 80]]
80  THE    LOG    COLLEGE. 

Saviour,  in  all  parts  and  places  where  God  shall  honour  me 
with  any  power  and  influence.  As  tp  myself,  sir,  it  is  im- 
possible to  express  the  warm  sentiments  of  my  heart,  for 
the  mercies,  without  number,  with  which  I  have  been  loaded 
by  the  God  who  has  fed  me  all  along  to  this  day ;  and  my 
reflection  on  his  goodness  covers  me  with  shame  and  blush- 
ing, for  I  know  my  utter  unworthiness,  and  that  I  am  less 
than  the  least  of  all  his  mercies.  I  would,  therefore,  abhor 
myself,  and  repent  in  dust  and  ashes.  You  are  sensible, 
my  good  friend,  that  governors  stand  in  a  glaring  light, 
and  their  conduct  is  watched  by  friends  and  enemies ;  the 
.one  often  unreasonably  applaud,  while  the  other,  perhaps, 
too  justly  censure.  Yet  in  this  I  am  not  anxious,  but  to 
approve  myself  to  the  Searcher  of  hearts,  from  whose  mouth 
I  must  hear  pronounced,  at  the  great  and  general  audit, 
those  joyful  words,  '  Enter  thou,'  &c. ',  or  that  terrible  sen- 
tence, '  Depart  from  me,'  &c.  Join  me  then  in  thankful- 
ness to  God  for  all  the  blessings  and  talents  he  has  entrusted 
me  with,  and  in  prayer  that  I  may  employ  them  to  his  honour 
and  glory,  to  the.  good  of  the  people  over  whom  he  hath  placed 
me,  and  so  to  the  comfort  of  my  own  soul;  that  1  may 
always  remember,  that  he  who  ruleth  over  men  must  be 
just,  ruling  in  the  fear  of  God.'  " 


Mr,  Edwards  goes  on  to  say  to  his  correspondent, 
"In  another  letter  which  I  received,  dated  Bm-lington, 
New  Jersey,  May  31,  1748,  he  says  as  follows : 

" '  I  will  prostrate  myself  before  my  God  and  Saviour,  and 
on  the  bended  knees  of  my  soul  (abhorring  myself  in  every 
view)  I  will  beg  for  a  measure  of  divine  grace  and  wisdom ; 
that  so  I  may  be  honoured  in  being  an  instrument  in  ad- 
vancing the  kingdom  of  the  blessed  Jesus  in  this  world,  and 
in  that  way  be  bringing  forth  fruit  in  old  age.  I  bless  God, 
my  Heavenly  Father,  that  I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  cross  of 
Christ;  and  I  humbly  ask  the  assistance  of  sovereign  grace 
that  in  times  of  temptation  I  may  never  be  a  shame  to  it ;  I 
mean,  that  my  conversation  may  always  be  such  as  becometh 
the  gospel  of  Christ.  And  I  tell  you  again,  that  all  such 
as  minister  at  the  altar,  and  in  the  course  of  their  ministry 
approve  themselves  faithful  to  the  great  Head  of  the  Church, 


[[p. 81]]
COLLEGE  OF  NEW  JERSEY.         81 

will  not  only  find  my  countenance  and  protection,  but  my 
love  and  esteem. 

"  <  As  to  our  embryo  college,  it  is  a  noble  design,  and,  if 
God  pleases,  may  prove  an  extensive  blessing.  I  have 
adopted  it  for  a  daughter,  and  hope  it  may  become  an  alma 
mater  to  this  and  the  neighbouring  provinces.  I  am  getting 
the  best  advice  and  assistance  I  can  in  the  draft  of  a  char- 
ter, which  I  intend  to  give  to  our  infant  college;  and  I 
thank  you,  sir,  for  all  the  kind  hints  which  you  have  given 
me  for  the  service  of  this  excellent  undertaking ;  and  as  St. 
Luke  says  of  Mary,  'she  l-ept  all  thse  things  and jiondercd 
them  in  her  heart,'  so  you  may  depend  what  you  have  said 
about  the  college  will  not  be  lost  on  me ;  but  as  far  as  God 
shall  enable  me,  I  will  lay  out  and  exert  myself  in  every  way 
to  bring  it  to  maturity,  and  thus  to  advance  its  future  wel- 
fare and  prosperity ;  for  this,  I  believe,  will  be  acceptable 
in  the  sight  of  God  our  Saviour,  a  relish  for  true  religion  and 
piety  being  a  great  stranger  to  this  part  of  America.  The 
accounts  I  receive  from  time  to  time,  give  me  reason  to  be- 
lieve that  Arminiani^m,  Ariauism,  and  even  Sociniauism,  in 
destruction  of  the  doctrines  of  free  grace,  are  daily  propa- 
gated in  the  New  England  colleges.  How  horribly  and  how 
wickedly  are  these  poisonous  notions  rooting  out  those  no- 
ble principles  on  which  our  excellent  ancestors  founded  those 
seminaries !  And  how  base  a  return  is  it  in  the  present  ge- 
neration to  that  God  who  is  constantly  surrounding  them 
with  goodness  and  mercy.  And  how  offensive  is  it  in  the 
eyes  of  that  God  who  is  jealous  of  his  glory,  and  will  take 
vengeance  on  his  adversaries,  and  rcserveth  wrath  for  his  ene- 
mies. And  from  these  things  I  am  glad  to  thank  you  for 
your  book,  wrote  in  consequence  of  the  memorial  from  Scot- 
land for  promoting  a  concert  of  prayer.  I  am  much  pleased 
with  this  proposal,  and  with  your  arguments  to  encourage 
and  corroborate  the  design.  The  two  missionaries  you 
mention,  Spencer  and  Strong,  I  am  told  are  at  Boston.  I 
have  once  and  again  desired  Mr.  Brainerd  to  assure  them  of 
my  kindness  and  respect.  But  their  affairs  have  not  yet 
led  them  this  way.  I  rejoice  in  their  being  appointed  to 
carry  the  gospel  in  its  purity  to  the  Six  Nations  ;  and  when 
Mr.  Brainerd  and  they  proceed  to  Susquehanna,  they  shall 
have  all  my  assistance  and  encouragement,  by  letters  to 
the  king's  governors  where  they  may  pass,  and  my  letters 
to  the  sachem  or  chief  of  those  Indians.'  " 


[[p. 82]]
82  THELOGCOLLEGE. 

•  It  has  been  judged  expedient  to  insert  both  these 
letters  in  our  account  of  the  origin  of  New  Jersey  Col- 
lege, as  they  will  serve  to  give  the  reader  a  better  idea 
of  the  father  and  founder  of  this  institution  than  any 
thing  to  which  we  can  refer  him.  For  although  the 
character  of  governor  Belcher  has  come  down  to  us 
marked  with  piety  and  benevolence,  these  are  the  only 
memorials  of  the  man  from  his  own  pen  with  which  we 
are  acquainted.  But  from  these  fragments  of  corres- 
pondence we  see  how  deep  was  his  humility,  how  fer- 
vent his  zeal  for  the  promotion  of  truth  and  piety,  and 
his  willingness  to  bear  the  reproach  of  the  cross.  And 
as  to  his  public  spirit  in  promoting  the  cause  of  virtue 
and  literature,  the  College  of  New  Jersey  is  a  standing 
memorial.  The  good  already  accomplished  by  this  Col- 
lege cannot  be  calculated,  and  we  trust  that  it  is  des- 
tined to  be  a  blessing  to  the  community  for  ages  to 
come. 

We  seem,  however,  to  have  lost  sight  of  the  design 
of  this  chapter,  which  was  to  show  that  the  Log  Col- 
lege was  the  germ  of  the  College  of  New  Jersey.  But 
a  little  consideration  will  serve  to  convince  the  impartial 
reader  of  the  reality  of  this  connection.  The  Log  Col- 
lege had  done  its  work,  and  a  great  and  good  work  it 
was.  But  the  progress  of  the  country,  the  proceedings 
of  the  old  Synod,  and  the  general  sense  of  the  commu- 
nity, made  it  evident  that  a  literary  institution  of  a 
higher  order  than  the  log  cabin,  on  the  plains  of  Nes- 
haminy,  was  urgently  needed ;  and  the  members  of  the 
new  Synod  Avere,  no  doubt,  stimulated  to  exertion  in 
this  enterprise  by  the  example  of  the  other  body,  who 
were  now  engaged  in  establishing  a  school  at  New 
London. 

The  ministers  who  now  exerted  tliemselves  in  the 
establishment  of  the  New  Jersey  College  were  all  the 
friends  of  the  Log  College ;  and  most  of  them  had  re- 
ceived their  training,  both  in  cUissical  and  theological 
learning,  within  the  Avails  of  this  humble  institution. 
Besides  Dickinson  and  Burr,  who  were  graduates  of 


[[p. 83]]
COLLEGE    OP    NEW   JERSEY.  83 

Yale  College,  the  active  friends  and  founders  of  Nas- 
sau Hall  were  the  Tennents,  Blairs,  Finley,  Smith, 
Rogers,  Davies,  and  others  who  had  received  their 
education  in  the  Log  College,  or  in  schools  instituted 
by  those  who  had  been  instructed  there.  As  this  en- 
terprise was  entered  on  during  the  separation  of  the 
Presbyterian  Church,  those  ministers  connected  with 
the  old  side  took  no  part  in  it;  and  this,  especially, 
because  they  had  planned  an  institution  for  themselves, 
of  which  we  propose  to  give  some  account  in  the  ensu- 
ing chapter. 

It  is  not  my  purpose  to  write  the  history  of  the  Nevr 
Jersey  College;  this  will  be  done  by  another  hand. 
This  institution  was  commenced  in  Elizabethtown, 
under  its  first  President,  the  Rev.  Jonathan  Dickinson, 
a  man  of  superior  abilities  both  as  a  preacher  and  a 
writer,  and  truly  evangelical ;  a  friend  of  revivals,  and 
a  zealous  promoter  of  missions  among  the  aborigines 
of  this  country.  He  deserves  to  stand  in  the  foremost 
rank  among  the  fathers  of  the  Presbyterian  Church  in 
these  United  States.  Upon  his  decease  the  school 
Avas  removed  to  Newark,  and  placed  under  the  tuition 
and  care  of  the  Rev.  Aaron  Burr,  another  distinguished 
man,  whose  piercing  intellect  and  commanding  elo- 
quence qualified  him  to  be  a  leader  in  such  an  enter- 
prise. No  permanent  site  for  the  college  had  yet  been 
selected.  Elizabethtown  and  Newark  were  too  near 
the  borders  of  the  State ;  New  Brunswick  was  thought 
of,  and  the  trustees  came  near  fixing  it  there;  but 
Providence  overruled  it,  and  Princeton,  then  a  very 
small  and  inconsiderable  \allage,  was  selected  to  be  the 
seat  of  a  college  Avhich  has  always  been  dear  to  a  large 
portion  of  the  Presbyterian  Church.  Here  a  large 
number  of  her  sons  received  their  education ;  for  after 
the  union  of  the  two  dissentient  parties,  in  1753, 
nearly  all  candidates  for  the  ministry,  in  the  Presby- 
terian Church,  finished  their  education  in  Nassau  Hall. 
And  to  this  day  no  literary  institution  enjoys  more 
favour  and  is  held  in  higher  estimation  than  this  vene- 


[[p. 84]]
84  THE     LOG    COLLEGE. 

rable  college.  May  her  trustees  and  instructers  never 
forget  the  principles  on  which  the  institution  was 
founded. 

A  venerable  friend,*  in  conversing  with  the  writer  on 
the  subject  of  the  Log  College,  observed  that  this 
humble  institution  was  not  only  the  germ  of  New  Jer- 
sey College,  but  several  other  colleges,  which  have 
been  useful  to  the  church  and  state,  and  have  risen 
to  high  estimation  in  the  country  ;  and  mentioned  Jef- 
ferson, Hampden  Sidney,  and  Washington  College  in 
Virginia  ;  all  which  were  founded  and  taught  originally 
by  students  from  Princeton.  And  we  need  not  stop 
here,  for  these  in  their  turn  have  given  rise  to  many 
other  schools  and  colleges,  where  the  same  system  of 
education,  and  the  same  principles  of  religion  are 
adopted.  Thus  we  see  how  much  good  may  arise  from 
a  small  beginning.  As  the  stately  oak  originated  in  a 
small  acorn,  so  an  obscure  school  in  the  midst  of  the 
forest  becomes  a  nursery,  from  which  proceed,  not 
only  eminent  men,  but  other  and  higher  schools  of 
learning,  by  which  our  country  is  enlightened  and 
adorned.  Let  this  fact  encourage  all  who  have  it  in 
their  power,  to  institute  good  schools  of  useful  and 
solid  learning,  and  to  be  liberal  in  encouraging  and 
endowing  academies  and  colleges,  and  aiding  poor 
scholars  who  possess  talents  to  acquire  a  liberal 
education. 

If  our  free  institutions  are  long  preserved,  it  will  be 
by  the  means,  under  Providence,  of  religion  and  learn- 
ing. Without  the  benign  influence  of  knowledge  and 
virtue,  a  free  republican  government  cannot  long  exist ; 
and  without  the  influence  of  religion  and  good  educa- 
tion, men  are  not  fit  for  such  freedom ,  as  is  now 
enjoyed  under  our  free  and  happy  government.  The 
immigration  of  so  many  thousand  foreigners  into  our 
country,  renders  it  doubly  necessary  to  exert  every 
nerve  to  diSuse  knowledge  and  sound  principles  of 
religion  among  the  people.    Let  us  have  public  schools, 

*  Rev.  Matthew  Brown,  D.  D. 


[[p. 85]]
COLLEGE    OF    NEW  JERSEY.  85 

supported  by  the  state,  normal  schools  for  the  educa- 
tion of  teachers,  and  parochial  schools,  in  Avhich  every 
denomination  may  inculcate  that  religion  which  they 
believe  to  be  founded  in  truth.  Evangelical  Christiana 
need  not  contend  about  what  shall  be  taught  in 
schools,  for  if  those  truths  in  which  they  are  all 
agreed,  shall  be  faithfully  inculcated  on  our  youth, 
there  will  not  be  any  very  glaring  defect  in  the  system 
of  religious  instruction.  Those  points  in  which  they 
differ  may  be  reserved  for  their  consideration  at  a 
riper  age.  But  let  the  Bible  he  the  text-hook  in  every 
school,  whether  high  or  low. 

8 


CHAPTER  VIIL 


THE    NEW    LONDON    SCHOOL. 


Synod  of  Philadelphia  establish  a  School — Located  at  New  London — Mr. 
Alison  the  first  Teacher — Negotiation  with  Yale  College — Letter  to 
President  Clapp — Synod  of  New  York  form  the  enterprise  of  establish- 
ing a  College. 

As  we  have  given  a  brief  history  of  the  Log  College, 
the  first  school  erected  within  the  bounds  of  the  Pres- 
byterian Chui-ch  in  tliis  country,  and  also  of  the 'New 
Jersey  College,  of  which  it  was  the  germ,  it  will  not 
be  considered  an  unsuitable  digression  to  say  some- 
thing of  another  school,  which  was  established  by  the 
Synod  of  Philadelphia,  after  the  rupture  which  has 
been  described  took  place.  The  want  of  an  institu- 
tion of  classical  and  scientific  education  was  deeply 
felt ;  but  what  course  to  pursue  was  a  problem  not  easy 
to  be  solved.  The  Log  College  had  been  in  successful 
operation  about  fifteen  years  before  the  exclusion  of 