DOCUMENT_ID: whitefield-journal5-1739
TITLE (as printed): A Continuation of the Reverend Mr. Whitefield's Journal, From His Embarking after the Embargo, to his Arrival at Savannah in Georgia
DATE: 1739 (entries transcribed: Nov 20-24, 1739); this printed edition London/Philadelphia, 1740 (Second Edition)
LANGUAGE: en
SOURCE URL/SHELFMARK: https://archive.org/details/continuationofre05whit (djvu OCR: https://archive.org/download/continuationofre05whit/continuationofre05whit_djvu.txt)
EDITION: Internet Archive scan, identifier continuationofre05whit
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: copied (Internet Archive's own OCR, engine unspecified; English 18th-century long-s typography, OCR quality moderate -- long medial-s misread as f, some digit misreads noted inline)
TOTAL PAGES (this excerpt): pp. 40 (partial) - 46 of the printed pamphlet (full pamphlet not transcribed this session; only the Neshaminy/Log College visit, Nov 20-24 1739, was fetched and read)
WORD COUNT (this excerpt): approx. 1550
NOTE ON PAGE 42: the Internet Archive OCR renders this page's running head as "'43 Mr. WHITEFIELD'S Journal", apparently misreading the printed digit; by sequence (it falls on a verso leaf between the page marked 41 and the page marked 43) this is almost certainly page 42, not a second page 43. Marked [[p. 42]] below with this note. All other page markers below reproduce the digit the OCR itself gives.
NOTE ON DATE "November 11" (Thursday) below: the OCR renders "Thmfday, Ncvnnhcr 11" for the Neshaminy entry, immediately following a dated "Wednefday..., Novemler 21" entry and immediately preceding a dated "Friday, November 23" entry -- so the entry itself must be Thursday 22 November 1739; the OCR's "11" is a misreading of "22" (confirmed independently: Archibald Alexander, quoting the same passage in Biographical Sketches of the Founder and Principal Alumni of the Log College (1845/1851), heads it "Nov. 22. [1739.]" -- see text/alexander1845.txt). Reproduced here exactly as OCR'd, uncorrected, per transcription rule.

whom  feemed  much  afFe-fted,  and  God  was  pleafed  to' 
open  my  Mouth  agaitift  both  Minifters  and  People  among 
the  Dillenters,  who  hold  the  Truth  in  Unrighteoufnefs, 
contenting  themfelves  with  a  bare  fpeculative  Knowledge 
of  the  Dodtrines  of  Grace,  but  never  experiencing  the 
Power  of  them  in  their  Hearts. — Thefe  jhall  receive  thi 
greater  Condemnation  I 

NEW    BRVN SWICK. 

Tttefday^  November  20.  Reached  hither  about  Six  lafS 
Night,  and  preached  about  Noon,  for  near  Two  Hours,' 
in  worthy  Mr.  T'ennenf's,  Meeting- Houfe,  to  a  large  Af- 
fembly  gather'd  together  from  all  Parts;  and  amongft 
them,  as  Mr.  Tennent  told  me,  there  was  a  great  Body 
of  fulid  Chriftians.  About  Three  in  the  Afternoon,  I 
preacii'd  again,  and  at  Seven  1  baptized  two  Children, 
and  preached  a  third  Time  with  greater  Freedom  than  at 
Kit  her  of  the  former  Opportunities,— It  is  impoffible  to  tell 

with 


[[p. 41]]
at  NEW-YORK,  41 

with  what  Pleafure  the  Children  of  God  heard  thofe 
Truths  confirm'd  by  a  Minifter  of  the  Church  of  England'-) 
which  for  many  Years  have  been  preached  to  them  by 
their  own  Paftor. —  Mr.  Tennenfs  Oppofers  Mouths  were 
ftopt,  feveral  were  brought  under  ftrong  Convictions,  and 
our  Lord's  dear  Difciples  were  ready  to  leap  for  Joy.  T(5 
me  the  Meeting  feemed  to  be  hke  the  Meeting  of  the 
Twelve  Tribes,  when  they  came  from  difFerent  Parts  to 
worfhip  the  Lord  at  'Jervjalcm. — Among  others  that  came 
to  hear  the  Word,  were  feveral  Minifters  whom  the  Lord 
has  been  pleafed  to  honour,  in  making  Inftruments  of 
bringing  many  Sons  to  Glory.  One  was  a  Dutch  Cal- 
viniftical  Minifter,  mmed  Freeing  Houfcn,  Paftor  of  a 
Congregation  about  Four  Miles  off"  New  Brwijwick ;  he 
is  a  worthy  old  Soldier  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  was  the 
Beginner  of  the  great  Work  which  I  truft  the  Lord  is 
carrying  on  in  thefe  Parts. — He  has  been  ftrongly  oppofed 
by  his  carnal  Brethren,  but  God  has  always  appeared  for 
him  in  a  furpriiing  Manner,  and  made  him  more  than 
Conqueror,  thro'  his  Love. — He  has  long  fmce  learnt  to 
fear  him  only  who  can  deftroy  both  Bodv  and  Soul  in 
Hell. —Another  was  one  Mr.  Crofs,  Minifter  of  a 
Congregation  at  Barking-Bridge,  about  Twenty  Miles 
from  BrunJzuicL — A  moft  remarkable  Out-pouring  of  the 
Spirit  has  been  frequently  yr^?z  in  his  AfTembly,  for  which 
he  has  been  oppofed  much  by  natural  Men. — He  himfelf 
told  me  of  many  wonderful  EfFefts,  and  fudden  Conver- 
fions  that  had  been  wrought  by  the  Lord  under  his  Mi- 
niftry. — For  fome  Time  Eight  or  Nine  ufed  to  cottie  to 
him  together,  in  deep  Diftrefs  of  Soul ;  and  I  think  he 
faid.  Three  Hundred  of  his  Congregation,  which  is  not 
very  large,  were  effedually  brought  Home  to  Christ; 
but  tho'  they  are  the  excellent  ones  of  the  Earth,  they  are 
look'd  upon  as  Enthufiafts  and  Madmen,  and  treated  as 
fuch  by  thofe  who  know  not  God,  and  are  ignorant  of 
the  hidden  Life  of  Jesus  Christ  in  their  Hearts.  He 
indeed  is  one  who  I  believe  would  rejoice  to  fufFer  for  the 

Lord  Jesus. — Oh!   that  I  may  be  like  minded! A 

Third   Minifter    was  one  Mr.  Camel^    who  has  been  a 

Preacher  of  the  Doctrines  of  Grace  for  thefe  Four  Years,- 

was  a  regular  moral  Liver,    and  accounted  a  very  good 

F  '  Man, 


[[p. 42]]
'43       Mr.  W  H I T  E  F I E  L  d' J  Joumal 

Man,  but  within  thefe  few  Months  being  convinced  of 
Sin,  and  that  he  knew  nothing  experimentally  of  Jesus 
Christ,  tho'  he  had  pretended  to  preach  him  fo  lono:, 
after  many  Struggles  with  himfelf,  he  told  the  Synod  he 
was  unconverted,  and  therefore  dared  not  preach  'till  he 
was ;  accordingly,  he  has  left  off"  preaching  thefe  Two 
Months,  and  has  labour'd  under  unfpeakable  Anguifh  and 
Diltrefs  of  Soul. — By  fome  he  is  look'd  upon  as  melan- 
choly, and  befides  himfelf;  but  I  had  much  Difcourfe  with 
him,  and  really  believe  thefe  Humiliations  will  prepare 
him  for  great  and  eminent  Services  in  the  Church  of 
GoEf. — His  Cafe  puts  me  in  Mind  of  Proteffor  Franks 
who  being  on  EaJ}er-Day  to  preach  on  the  Nature  of 
pivine  Faith,  and  finding  he  had  not  that  Faith  himfelf, 
was  convi6led  by  God  of  his  unregenerate  State,  upon 
which  he  ran  into  the  Woods,  was  there  deeply  humbled, 
and  at  lad  became  a  mofl  exalted  Inftance  of  Faith.  At 
our  Perfuafion,  Mr.  C-a/W' prom i fed  to  preach  next  Sun- 
day, and  I  believe  will  be  inftrumental  in  convicting 
many  Heart  Hypocrites  among  the  Diffentinj  Miniflers. — 
For  that  there  are  many  fuch  is  evident  from  this ; — tho' 
they  hold,  and  have  been  bred  up  in,  and  preach  the 
Do£lrincs  of  Grace,  yet  whenever  the  Power  '.f  God  ap- 
pears in  any  Congregation,  they  cry  it  down  as  much  as 
our  A/Iinifters  of  the  Church  of  England.  Oh  that  the 
l^ord  may  cotnfort  poar  Air.  Camel,  aiid  canf4  him  to  de-. 

ten   thefe  If'ohes   in   Sheep's  Ckathing  ' With  thefe 

Minifters,  and  many  otlier  Difciples  of  our  dear  Lord 
Jesus,  \  took  fweet  Counfel ;  we  eat  our  Bread  with 
Gladnefs  and  Singienefs  of  Heart,  and  comforted  ourfclves 
with  this  Confidtration,  that  thu'  we  mufl  be  fcpaiated 
from  each  other  on  Earth,  yet  we  fhould  fit  down  to  cat 
Bread  Ayith  Abraham.,  Jjaac,  and  Jacob.,  in  the  Kingdom 
of  Heaven.  Hajlen,  O  Lord,  thii  bleiJid  Tuner  Ok 
v^bcn  will  thy  J^inrcicrji  (om(  I 

Mcilihihead^  and  '^frent-To^un, 

Wednef/Iay..,  Novemler  21.     Set  out  earl v,    with  about 

9  Score  in  Company,   tor  Maidenhead,    a  little  more  than 

Twenty  Miles  from  Urwrfwiek,   where,  at  Mr.  Temient^ 

■  f»t;^u£ff,  \  had  appointed  to  ^.rcach  a?  to  Daj . — .A,t  Noon 


[[p. 43]]
ci  nEW-rORlt,  43 

Vi  got  thither,  and  I  preached  from  a  Waggon  \o  about 
1500  Perfons  on  the  Converfion  of  SauU  and  God  waS 
pleafed  to  diredt  my  VV<^rds,  and  enabled  me  to  fpeak  fo 
fuitably  to  the  Condition  of  the  poor  defpifed  Chriftians 
in  thofe  Parts,  that  they  know  not  well  how  to  exprefs 
their  Satisfaction.  The  Lord  is  gracious  in  all  his  Ways^ 
and  wonderful  in  all  his  Works  I  Oh  that  I  cotdd  praife 
him  as  I  ought  !  Here  one  Mr.  Rotulandy  another  faith- 
ful Miniller  of  Jesus  Christ,  gave  us  the  Meeting. — 
He  has  been  a  Preacher  about  Two  Years,  has  went 
about  doing  Good,  and  had  many  Seals  to  his  Miniftry. — - 
Much  of  the  Simplicity  of  Christ  was  difcernable  in 
his  Behaviour.  Bl^^ed  be  G  O  D  for  fending  forth  fuch 
burning  and  Jhining  Lights  in  the  Midji  of  the  thick  Dark- 
nefs  that  is  upon  the  Face  of  this  Generation  ! — Thou  Lotd 
of  the   Harvejl,  fend  forth  more  fuch   Labourers  into  thy 

Harveft  ! After  Sermon,  we  were  kindly  entertain'd 

at  a  Houfe  near  the  Place  where  I  preached,  and  being 
ftrongly  defired  by  many,  and  hearing  a  condemn'd  Ma- 
lefactor was  to  fufFer  there  that  Week,  in  Company  with 
above  Thirty  Work,  I  went  to  Trent  Town^  Ten  Miles 
from  Maidenhead^  and  reached  thither  by  Five  in  the 
Evening. — Here  God  was  pleafed  to  humble  my  Soul, 
and  bring  my  Sins  to  Remembrance,  fo  that  I  could 
fcarcc  hold  up  my  Head. — However,  knowing  that  God 
called,  I  went  out  trufting  in  his  Divine  Strength,  and 
preached  in  the  Court-Houfe  ;  and  tho*  I  was  quite  bar- 
ren and  dry  at  the  Beginning  of  my  Difcourfe,  yet  God 
enabled  me  to  fpeak  with  great  Sweetnefsj  Freedom,  and 
Power,  before  I  had  done.  Tiie  unhappy  Criminal 
feem'd  harden'd,  but  I  had  great  Reafon  to  believe  fome 
Good  was  done  in  the  Place.  Lordy  fend  forth  ethers  to 
carry  it  on^  for  thy  dear  Son's  Sake  I 

Trent  To^xn^  and  Nefiivnifii, 

Thmfday^  Ncvnnhcr  11.  Set  out  for  Nejhamini  (twenty 
Miles  diitant  from  Trent  Town)  where  old  A4r.  Tennent 
lives,  and  keeps  an  Academy,  and  where  I  was  to  preach 
to  Day,  according  to  Appointment.  About  Twelve  we 
came  thither,  and  found  above  3OCO  People  gather'd  to- 
gether in  the  Meeting  Houfe  Yard  >  and  Mr*  William 
Y  a  Tenncnt 


[[p. 44]]
44  ^^'  WHITEFlELD'i  "joumol 

Tennent,  and  eminent  Servant  of  Jesus  Christ,  preach* 
ing  to  them,  becaufe  we  had  flayed  beyond  the  Time  ap- 
pointed. When  I  came  up,  he  foon  ftopp'd,  and  fung  a 
Pfalm,  and  then  I  began  to  fpeak  as  the  Lord  gave  me 
Vtterance. — At  firft  the  People  feem'd  unafFeded,  but  in 
the  midftof  my  Difcourfe,  the  Pouter  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
came  upon  me,  and  I  felt  fuch  a  Struggling  within  my- 
felf  for  the  People,  as  I  fcarce  ever  felt  before  — The 
Hearers  began  to  be  melted  down  immediately,  and  cry- 
much  ;  and  we  had  good  Reafon  to  hope  the  Lord  intend- 
ed Good  for  many.  After  I  had  finifhed,  Mr.  Gilbert 
Termc?it  gave  a  Word  of  Exhortation  to  confirm  what  had 
been  deliver'd.  At  the  End  of  his  Difcourfe,  we  fung  a 
Pfalm,  and  then  difmifs'd  the  People  with  a  Bleffing. 
Oh  that  the  Lord  may  fay  Amen  to.  it  ! — After  our  Exer- 
cifes  were  over,  we  went  to  old  Mr.  Tennent,  who  en- 
tertain'd  us  like  one  of  the  ancient  Patriarchs.  His  Wife 
to  me  feemed  like  Elizabeth,  and  he  like  Zacchary  ;  both 
as  far  as  I  can  find,  walk  in  all  the  Ordinances  and  Com- 
mandments of  the  Lord  bkmelefs. — Tho'  God  was 
pleafed  to  humble  my  Soul,  fo  that  I  was  obliged  to  re- 
tire for  a  while,  yet  we  had  fweet  Communion  with  each 
other,  and  fpent  the  Evening  in  concerting  what  Mea- 
fures  had  befi  be  taken  for  promoting  our  dear  Lord's 
Kingdom.  It  happens  very  providentially,  that  Mr.  Te7i~ 
nent  and  his  Brethren  are  appointed  to  be  a  Presbytery  by 
the  Synod,  fo  that  they  intend  breeding  up  gracious  Youths, 
and  fending  them  out  from  Time  to  Time  into  our  Lord's 
Vineyard.  The  Place  wherein  the  young  A'len  fludy 
now  is  in  Contempt  call'd  the  College.  It  is  a  Log- 
Houfe,  about  Twenty  Feet  long,  and  near  as  many 
broad  ;  and  to  me  it  feemed  to  refemble  the  Schools  of 
the  old  Proohets.—  For  that  their  Habitations  were  mean, 
and  that  they  fought  not  great  Things  for  themfelves,  is 
plain  from  that  Paflage  of  Scripture  wherein  we  are  told, 
that  at  the  Feafl  of  the  Sons  of  the  Prophets,  one  of  them 
put  on  the  Pot,  whilft  the  others  went  to  fetch  fome 
Herbs  out  of  the  Field.  All  that  can  be  faid  of  moft  of 
our  publick  Univerfities  is,  they  are  all  glorious  zvithout. 
From  this  defpifcd  Place  Se''en  or  Eight  worthy  Minifters 
of  Jesus  have  lately  been  fent  forth;  more  are  almofl 
ready  to  be  fcnt,    and  a  Foundation   is  now  laying  for  the 

Inlhudion 


[[p. 45]]
at  P  UILADELP  HIA.     4^ 

InftruAion  of  many  others.  The  Devil  will  certainly 
rage  againft  them,  but  the  Work,  I  am  perfuaded,  is  of 
God,  and  therefore  will  not  come  to  nought.  Carnai 
Minifters  oppofe  them  ftrongly  ;  and  becaufe  People, 
when  awaken'd  by  Mr.  Tennent,  or  his  Brethren,  fee 
through,  and  therefore  leave  their  Miniftry,  the  poor 
Gentlemen  are  loaded  with  Contempt,  and  look'd  upon 
(as  all  faithful  Preachers  will  be)  as  Perfons  that  turn  the 
World  upfide  down. — A  notable  War  I  believe  is  com- 
mencing between  Michael  and  the  Dragon,  we  can  ea- 
fily  guefs  who  will  prevail.  The  Seed  of  the  Woman  JhalL 
bruife  the  Serpent's  Head. 

Nefiamini,    Abingdon  and  Philadelphia, 

Friday,  November  23.  Parted  with  dear  Mr.  Tennent, 
and  his  other  worthy  Fellow-labourers,  but  promifed  to 
remember  each  other  publickly  in  our  Prayers.  Rode  to 
Abingdon  about  10  Miles  from  Ncjha?nini,  and  preached  to 
above  2000  People  from  a  Porch- window  belonging  to  the 
Meeting- houfe,  whither  I  was  invited  Yefterday,  after  I 
had  preached  at  NeJJmmini.  Many  of  the  People  feemed 
afFedted  ;  and  1  think  I  have  not  feen  greater  Things,  no 
not  in  England.  It  is  furprizing  how  fuch  Bodies  of 
People  fo  fcattered  abroad,  can  be  gathered  at  fo  fhort  a 
Warning.  I  believe  at  Nejlmmini  there  might  be  near  a 
thoufand  Horfes,  which  the  People  do  not  fit  on  to  hear 
the  Sermon  as  in  England,  but  tie  them  to  the  Hedges ; 
and  thereby  much  Diforder  is  prevented.  AiToon  as  I 
had  done,  irelh  Invitations  were  made  me  to  come  to  fe- 
veral  Places,  would  Time  and  Bufinefs  permit.  Tho*  it 
was  cold,  the  People  flood  very  patiently  in  the  open  Air, 
and  feem'd  in  no  Hurry  to  return  home  after  the  Difcourfes 
were  ended.  What  are  outward  Things  to  a  Soul  intent 
on  God  \  Lefs  than  nothing. 

AfToon  as  I  had  nniftied,  I  haftened  to  Philadelphia^ 
and  blefled  be  God  found  my  Family  in  good  Order,  and 
ail  Things  carried  on  accordmg  to  my  Defire.  Oh  how 
can  I  exprefs  my  Tiiankfulnefs  for  this  little  Excurfion  ! 
The  Lord  has  done  great  Things  for  us  in  it,  whereat  the' 
People  of  God  are  much  rejoiced.  Oh  that  I  may  noi{? 
begin  to  do  fcnuthing  for  Qhrifi,    not  to  jufiify  my  Perfon, 

ha 


[[p. 46]]
46       Mr.  W  H  I  T  E  F I E  L  dV  'Journal 

hut  my   Fa'itb^    and   to  jhcvj  ?ny  Love  and  Gratitude  fof 
•what  God  has  dene  for  ?ny  Soul. 

Saturday^  Novemher  24,  Preached  this  Morning  in  the 
Church  with  much  Freedom  and  Power.  Afterwards  fe- 
veral  came  to  me  enquiring  about  inward  Feelings  and  re- 
ceiving the  Holy  Ghoft;  and  I  found  many  began  to  be 
awakened  out  of  their  carnal  Security  by  the  Word 
preached.  Received  an  excellent  Letter  from  one  grie- 
voufly  vexed  with  Temptations,  whom  God  has  been 
pleafcd  to  make  me  an  Inftrument  of  comforting.  Preach- 
ed again  at  four  in  the  Afternoon  in  the  Church,  that  be- 
ing judged  more  convenient  than  the  Market-place,  as 
the  Weather  was  fo  cold,  A  vaft  Concourfe  of  all  Deno- 
minations were  prefcnt.  God  gave  me,  particularly  to- 
wards the  Clofe  of  my  Sermon,  to  fpeak  with  divine  E- 
