DOCUMENT_ID: fuller1655
TITLE (as printed): The History of the University of Cambridge, and of Waltham Abbey
AUTHOR: Thomas Fuller (1608-1661); this edition ed. Marmaduke Prickett and Thomas Wright
DATE: Composed and first printed 1655 (as an appendix to Fuller's Church-History of Britain);
  this reprint 1840.
LANGUAGE: en (early modern English)
SOURCE URL: https://archive.org/details/historyuniversi01nichgoog
EDITION: Cambridge: printed for the editors, 1840 (a faithful reprint, per the editors'
  preface, of Fuller's 1655 text). Digitized from a University of California copy via Google
  Books, hosted on the Internet Archive.
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: Internet Archive OCR (djvu text layer), fetched verbatim via
  https://archive.org/download/historyuniversi01nichgoog/historyuniversi01nichgoog_djvu.txt,
  uncorrected.
TOTAL LINES: 43141
NOTE: SECONDARY narrative history, but the earliest source located this session (written 66
  years after Mildmay's death, by an author who had personally known members of Cambridge
  colleges of the generation after the founder). This is the source used for the "acorn"
  anecdote (Chapter 16, "Emmanuel College founded by Sir Walter Mildmay ... The Queen's
  Displeasure. His Answer to Queen Elizabeth"), reproduced by Shuckburgh 1904 and later
  writers. No earlier printed source for the anecdote was located this session (see
  discrepancies.md).
OCR QUALITY: Moderate; long-s and black-letter-adjacent typography of the reprint produce
  frequent minor misrecognitions (e.g. "de&y" for some words), but the acorn passage itself
  (checked against the surrounding context) is legible and was transcribed exactly as OCR'd.
---BEGIN TEXT---
This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 
to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 
to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 
are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  marginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 
publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  have  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 

We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  from  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attribution  The  Google  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liability  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.  Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 


at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/ 


fei^^t^    [jB^f^/yay 


itized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


THE  HISTORY 


THE  UNIYERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE, 

^'        .     AND    OP  ^ 


WALTHAM  ABBEY/ 


APPEAL   OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE. 


BY  THOMAS  FULLER,  D.D., 

PREDENDARY  OF  SARUM.  &c.  &c. 

AITWOR    OF    "THE    WORTHIES   OP   ENGLAJfD,"    "THE    HOLY    STATE,"    "TUB 

HISTORY  OP  THE  HOLY  WAR,"  "PISGAH-6IQHT  OP  PALESTINE," 

"  ADEL  REDIVIVUS,'*  Ac.  &c 


A  NEW  EDITION. 

WITH  NOTES, 
BY  JAMES  NICHOLS, 

EDITOR  OP  FULLER'S  ••CHURCH  HISTORY  OP  BRITAIN,"  &c. 


LONDON  : 
PRINTED  FOR  THOMAS  TEGG,  73,  CIIEAPSIDE. 

1840.     >^W^'^^-   ;  ''""'"V/' 

f/  *'  ^       Digitized  by  ^( 

fUlTIVZ^LilTY 


LONDON  : 

PRINTED  BY  JAMES  NICHOLS, 

46,   HOXTOX-SQUARE. 

^  -2  ^  a  ^ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


i//r 


i^^m^efW'tjOOgir '^ 


PREFACE. 


This  large  volume  contains  three  distinct  productions, 
all  of  them  necessary  to  the  completion  of  Fuller's 
"  Church  History ; "  who,  after  recording  in  chronological 
order  the  founders,  benefactors,  and  celebrated  men  of 
the  various  Colleges  in  Oxford,  repeatedly  directs  his 
readers  to  "  the  History  of  the  University  of  Cambridge,'* 
(the  first  of  these  three  works,)  for  the  corresponding 
information  respecting  the  foundations,  benefactions,  and 
eminent  persons  of  the  latter  University,  of  which  he  was 
a  distinguished  member;  and  to  his  venerable  Alma 
MatcTy  as  the  reader  will  perceive,  he  has  proved  himself 
to  be  a  dutiful  son,  rendering  her  all  due  honour  and 
respect  in  this  promised  History,  which  has  been  received 
as  the  accredited  guide  of  every  subsequent  academical 
historian. 

The  second  is  a  brief  "  History  of  Waltham  Abbey 
in  Essex,"  of  which  Fuller  was  the  curate  in  the  latter 
years  of  the  Inter-regnum,  through  the  kindness  of  his 
right  honourable  friend  and  patron,  the  earl  of  Carlisle ; 
to  whom  he  dedicates  the  small  book,  and  of  whose 
ancestors  he  has  given  a  delightfiil  description  in  the 
dedication  prefixed  to  the -fourth  book  of  his  "Church 
History."  This  was  one  of  the  methods  by  which  Divine 
Providence  at  that  time  preserved  several  of  the  eminent 
episcopal  clergy  from  the  common  ruin  and  dispersion  of 
their  order,  and  from  the  rancorous  molestation  of  their 
determined  enemies.  In  the  first  sentence  of  "  the  His- 
tory," he  gratefully  acknowledges  the  loving-kindness  of 
his  Heavenly  Father  in  "  having  planted  "  him  in  such  a 
calm  retreat ;  and  expresses  a  hope,  that  his  endeavours 
to  describe  it  "may  prove  exemplary  to  others,  who 
dwell  in  the  sight  of  remarkable  monasteries,  to  do  the 
like,  and  rescue  the  observables  of  their  habitations  from 
the  teeth  of  time  and  oblivion," — an  exhortation  which, 
certainly,  has  not  been  without .  eflfect,  as  may  be  seen 
in  the  multitude  of  good  local  Histories  which  soon 
afterwards  made  their  appearance. 

The  third  and  most  important  work  is  "the  Appeal 
of  injured  Innocence,"  which  occupies  more  than  one 
lialf  of  the  present  large  volume ;  and  is,  in  fact,  a  run- 

Digitizedby^OOQlC 


PREFACE. 


ning  commentary  on  each  of  the  eleven  books  of  the 
"  Church  History," — the  "  History  of  Cambridge  "  being 
generally  reckoned  as  the  twelfth.  On  another  occasion 
I  have  declared,  what  I  now  repeat,  concerning  it: — 
"  Published  in  the  year  prior  to  the  Restoration,  it  displays 
to  better  advantage,  perhaps,  than  any  or  all  of  his  former 
productions,  the  multifarious  acquirements  and  wonderful 
intellectual  resources  of  Fuller.  Highly  as  I  am  reputed 
to  venerate  his  antagonist,  Peter  Heylin,  that  staunch  and 
sturdy  royalist,  I  feel  no  hesitation  in  pronouncing  Fuller 
the  victor  in  this  contest ;  not  only  from  the  general  just- 
ness of  his  cause,  but  also  for  that  which  exalts  him  as 
a  man  and  a  Christian, — his  playful  wit,  ingenuous  can- 
dour, almost  unfailing  good-humour,  and  remarkable 
moderation."  It  embraces  almost  every  topic  within  the 
range  of  human  disquisition,  from  the  most  sublime 
mysteries  of  the  Christian  religion  and  the  great  anti- 
quity of  the  Hebrew  and  Welsh  languages,  down  to  "  the 
tale  of  a  tub"  and  criticisms  on  Shakspeare's  perversion  of 
the  character  of  sir  John  FalstaflF.  But  the  value  of  "  the 
Appeal "  cannot  be  too  highly  estimated  when  it  is  known 
to  contain  the  discordant  views  of  two  eminent  church- 
men,— the  one  classing  himself  with  the  high  party,  the 
other  with  the  hwy — on  most  momentous  events  in  which 
they  had  themselves  been  actors,  or  of  which  they  had 
been  thoughtful  spectators,  and  on  principles  and  motives 
the  temperate  discussion  of  which  will  always  be  interest- 
ing to  the  sincere  lover  of  truth,  but  which  must  be  con- 
sidered as  of  paramount  importance  to  us  in  these  days, 
when  many  of  the  same  arguments  are  reproduced  and 
brought  into  fresh  coUisicm.  Yet  it  is  gratifying  to  con- 
template the  state  of  amicable  concord  into  which  these 
two  great  masters  of  attack  and  defence  were  ultimately 
brought,  respecting  all  the  great  principles  which  had 
been  the  subjects  of  their  debate,  after  each  of  them  had 
tendered  his  own  opinion  or  explanation.  On  the  mat- 
ters of  fact  which  concerned  Puller  as  an  author, — who 
was  then  put  on  Ws  literary  trial  before  the  pubEc,  to  be 
declared  worthy  or  unworthy  of  obtaining  general  cre- 
dence,— the  results  are  favourable  in  the  extreme;  and 
such  as  tend  fully  to  establish  his  reputation  with  pos- 
terity for  a  veritable  historian,  who  wrote  and  published 
his  great  work,  and  this  large  defence  of  it,  in  troublous 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


t>R£FACK.  I 

&Daes,  when  the  recent 'political  and  religious  agitations 
had  scarcely  been  su£fered  to  subside. 

After  perusing  the  instances  of  personal  vanity  which 
I  have  given  in  a  note,  (p.  396,)  the  reader  will  be  pre- 
pared to  divine  the  true  cause  of  Heylin's  infelicitous 
attack  on  Puller  in  his  Examen  Historicum.    He  pos- 
sessed great  irritability  of  disposition;  yet,  like  most  men 
of  warm  temperament,  he  seems  to  have  been  scarcely 
conscious  of  this  infirmity,  and  undoubtedly  wrote  the 
following  sentence  in   great  sincerity  of  heart : — "  The 
party  whcnn  I  am  to  deal  with  is  so  much  a  stranger  to  me, 
that  he  is  neither  beneficio  nee  injurid  notus  ;  and  there^ 
fore  no  particular  respects  have  moved  me  to  the  making 
of  these  Animadversions."      Fuller's  reply  to  this  is 
highly  characteristic : — ''  I  am  glad  to  hear  this  passage 
from  the  Animadvertor,  that  I  never  did  him  any  injury; 
the  rather  because  some  of  my  friends  have  charged  me 
for  provoking  his  pen  against  me.   And  though  I  pleaded, 
that  neither  in  thought,  word,  nor  deed,  I  ever  did  him 
any  wrong,  I  hardly  prevailed  with  them  for  belief :  and 
I  now  the  Animadvertor  hath  cleared  me,  that  I  never  ltd 
j  any  injury  unto  him."     In  this  sentence  will  be  discerned 
much  of  that  sly  waggery  which  "  peeps  out,  ever  and 
I  anon,"  in  Fuller's  pages.     He  was  himself  evidently  well 
I  aware  of  the  existence  of  some  cause  of  offence  on  his 
part ;  and,  notwithstanding  his  honest  declaration  to  the 
contrary,  Heylin  has  shown,  (p.  449,)  how  much  he  was 
annoyed  by  a  passage  in  "  the  History  of  Cambridge," 
(p.  117,)  in  winch  Fuller  mentions  the  reply  of  king 
Hemy  VI.   to  bishop   Wainefleet ;    "  a  speech,"   says 
Fuller,   "avouched  by   no  historian,"   though  in  the 
same  paragraph  he  asserts  it  to  have  been  "  first  printed 
by  Brian  Twyne,   Oxford    Antiquary,   and    afterwards 
related  by  Dr.  Heylin^  a  member  of  that  University  J'     In 
another  passage,  (Ch.   Hist.  vol.   ii.   p.    148,)  he   had 
described  "  St.  Equitius,  the  pretended  founder  of  our 
first  English  monks,"  in  this  style : — "  But  be  he  who  he 
himself  or  any  other  pleaseth,  (brother,  if  they  will,  to 
St.  George  on  horseback,)  he  was  never  father  of  any 
monks  m  EaglandL"     This  roused  the  choler  of  Heylin, 
who  prided  himself  on  being  the  author  of  the   very 
amusing  ^  History  of  that  most  feimous  Saint  and  Sol- 
dier of  Christ  Jesus,^  St.  George  of  Cappadocia ; "  and  he 

a  Digitized  by  L^OOgle 


fi  PREFACfi. 

has  given  expression  to  his  kindled  indignation  in  no 
measured  terms.  ("  Appeal/'  p.  476.)  This  excitement, 
from  similar  slight  and  unintentional  ofiFences,  induced  him 
to  employ  low  and  abusive  language,  a  specimen  of  which 
I  give  below  in  a  note,*  in  which  the  manly  and  witty 
answer  of  Fuller,  must  confirm  the  good  opinion  which  all 
well-natured  men  will  have  formed  of  his  vast  superiority 
in  the  delightful  essentials  of  temper  and  genius. 

In  the  "Appeal"  it  was  the  author's  intention,  as 
he  announces  it,  (p.  291,)  "to  deal  more  fairly  with 
the  Animadvertor "  than  the  latter  had  dealt  with  him ; 
"  and  not  here  and  there  to  pick  out  parcels,  and  cut  off 
shreds,"  he  says,  "  where  they  make  most  for  my  advan- 
tage; hut  I  have  presented  the  whole  cloth  of  his  hooJcy' 
&c.  He  proceeded  in  this  honest  course,  of  fiilly  quot- 
ing his  adversary's  words  and  immediately  subjoining  his 
own  reply,  till  he  received  an  intimation  from  Heylin's 
stationer,  (as  the  respectable  publisher  of  those  days  was 
commonly  designated,)  that  the  faithful  reprint  of  the 
entire  work  would  operate  to  his  pecuniary  injury.  Fuller 
thferefore  renders  this,  with  other  reasons,  ("  Appeal," 
p.  508,)  why  he  should  omit  all  further  redundancies, 

*  Dr.  Hetun. — ^How  wise  the  rest  were,  I  am  not  able  to  say.  But 
certainly  our  author  showed  himself  "  no  wiser  than  Wjdtham's  calf,  who 
ran  nine  miles  to  suck  a  buU  and  came  home  athirst,"  as  the  proverb 
saith.  His  running  unto  Oxford,  which  cost  him  as  much  in  seventeen 
weeks,  as  he  had  spent  in  Cambridge  in  seventeen  years,  was  but  a  second 
sally  to  the  first  knight-errantry. 

Fuller. — I  can  patiently  comport  with  the  Animadvertor's^'cer*  /  which 
I  behold  as  so  many  frogs,  that  it  is  pretty  and  pleasing  to  see  them  hop 
and  skip  about,  having  not  much  harm  in  them.  But  I  cannot  abide  his 
railings  ;  which  are  like  to  toads,  swelling  with  venom  within  them.  Any  one 
may  rail  who  is  bred  but  in  Billingsgate-College  :  and  I  am  sorry  to  hear 
such  language  from  the  Animadvertor,  a  Doctor  in  Divinity ;  seeing  railing 
is  as  much  hefMo/th  a  Doctor,  as  against  Divinity. 

When  Dr.  Turner,  a  physician  sufficiently  known,  gave  the  lie  (at  the 
earl  of  Pembroke's  table)  to  the  earl  of  Carnarvon :  "  I  will  take  the  lie 
from  you ; "  replied  the  earl,  "  but  I  will  never  take  physic  from  you." 
If  such  railing  be  consistent  with  the  Doctor's  Divinity,  this  once  I  will 
take  the  calfy  but  never  learn  Divinity  from  him. 

Two  things  comfort  me  under  his  reviling.  First.  That  no  worse  man 
than  David  himself  complained,  that  he  became  '^a  proverb  to  his 
enemies,"  Psalm  Ixix.  2.  Secondly.  Though,  a  calf  be  a  contemptible 
creature,  passing  for  the  emblem,  not  (with  the  dove)  of  simplicity,  but  of 
plain  silliness  ;  yet  is  it  a  clean  one,  and  accepted  of  God  for  sacrifice,  Heb. 
ix.  19.  Whereas  the  snarling  dog  (though  a  creature  of  far  more  cunning 
and  sagacity)  was  so  odious  and  unclean,  that  by  a  peculiar  law  it  was  pro- 
vided, that  the  price  of  a  dog  should  not  be  brought  into  the  house  of  God. 
Dent,  xxiii.  18. — '*  Appeal  of  injuredlnnocence,"^^,  i^X^jOOQIC 


PREFACE.  Ul 

*' which  might  well  be  spared^  as  containing  no  pungent 
matter  against ''  any  of  his  facts  or  positions.  But  smce 
this  necessity  no  longer .  exists,  I  have  rendered  the 
present  edition  much  more  valuable,  by  inserting  in  it 

THE  WHOLE   0¥   HeYLIN's  ANIMADVERSIONS,  COUtaiucd   in 

that  very  scarce  book  the  general  title  of  which  is 
Examen  Historicum  ;  thus  the  reader  may  obtain,  at  one 
Tiew,  a  sight  of  the  occasionally  powerful  reasonings  of 
these  two  great  oracles  on  affairs  ecclesiastical. 

For  the  principles  on  which  I  undertook  the  super- 
intendence of  this  edition  of  Fuller's  works,  as  well  as 
for  a  more  ample  list  of  words  which  have  been  slightly 
altered,  and  of  those  which  have  become  their  substi- 
tutes, I  refer  the  reader  to  my  preface  to  his  "  Church 
History."  Of  those  principles,  and  of  that  excellent 
work  itself,  the  Christian  portion  of  the  public  have 
shown  their  approbation  by  the  purchase  of  a  large 
impression.  A  new  edition  of  it  is  now  in  progress 
through  the  press,  and  it  shall  be  my  care  to  render  it 
still  more  deserving  of  general  patronage. 

In  conformity  with  my  practice  in  the  "  Church 
History"  I  now  subjoin  a  list  of  such  words  as  I  have 
changed  for  others,  their  cognates  in  meaning  and 
derivation ; — 

Almrpi  into  absorbed ;  acerewed,  accrued  ;  adwmzances,  advowsons ; 
Anglizedy  Anglicized ;  ArahiSy  Arabia ;  Auihmtiquey  authentic. 

Bcmdeleiry  Bandeleer;  haronriey  barony;  hdfreey  belfry;  Ufiy  been; 
M^s,  bodice  ;  hone-flre,  bonfire ;  hoy  up,  buoy  up ;  Britannie,  Britannia ; 
iraak,  broken ;  hy  like,  lielike. 

CatDsed  tpay,  causeway;  champion,  champaign;  eomplemetOs,  compli- 
ments; cotMuUive,  consultatiye ;  controller,  comptroller;  eoules,  cowls; 
counters,  compters ;  couaen,  cozen ;  ereeketh,  creaketh ;  orue,  crew. 

Deceipt,  deceit ;  dekOofy,  dilatory ;  dispoyled,  despoiled ;  durty,  dirty. 

Empaire,  impair;  emperease,  empress;  enhaumed,  enhanced;  eremUioal, 
hennitical ;  errtmt,  arrant ;  essay  of  bread,  assay ;  estrich,  ostrich ; 
exchetor,  escheator. 

Feacible,  feasible ;  ferrie,  feny ;  forrain,  foreign ;  frey,  fray. 

Gage,  gauge ;  gentile,  genteel ;  gipsous,  gypseous ;  Oothish,  Gothic. 

ffarraged,hsraa8ed ;  hospital,  hospitable  ;  hufte,hxLff;  hungerly,hxiDgnly, 

He,  sMe.  Jeast,  jest ;  Jewrie,  Jewry.  Launces,  lances ;  huhunu,  luscious. 

Marish,  marsh ;  minsire,  minster ;  moe,  more.     Ne,  not ;  nibble,  nipple. 

Pieh  and  chose,  picked  and  chosen ;  portraioture,  portraiture ;  priced, 
prized;  printing,  pricing;  proHng,  prowling;  pubUqtte,  public;  puntiHas, 
punctilios ;  pusnie,  puisne. 

Redowneth,  redoundeth ;  retrenee,  retrench ;  rere,  rear ;  rivolet,  rivulet ; 
roundled  up,  rounded  up ;  rythme,  rhyme. 

Sceleton^  skeleton ;  sdted,  sited ;  sithence,  since ;  slenting,  slanting ;  spoaX:^ 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


a  2 


Iv  PRRFACR. 

spoke ;  siander-hearer^  standard-bearer ;  stooge,  stowage ;  ttraightenf  straiten  | 
sutCy  suit ;  9tooundy  swoon ;  symmymaeSy  synonymes. 

ThoroWy  through ;  throughly y  thoroughly ;  tcley  toll ;  tressely  trestle. 

UnsJiakenedy  unshaken ;  unvaludbley  invaluable  ;  userersy  usurers. 

Vicaridgey  yicarage ;  vice-^mmty  viscount ;  virgey  vetge. 

Weike,  wick ;  tphm  w,  whereas ;  whiles^  while ;  wrastl^  wrestled. 

The  following  is  a  brief  list  of  similar  words  from 
Heylin's  Examen  Historicum  :— 

Aooofnptedy  accounted.  Bed-roily  bead-roll.  CassctdSy  cassocks;  crud 
night-capy  crewel.  JEnditethy  inditeth;  escocheony  escutcheon.  Fmlers, 
failures.  Chthish,  Gothic.  HmsherSy  ushers.  JfOerease^  interest.  Same- 
terie,  cemetery.     WTien  cw,  whereas. 

I  now  subjoin  a  collection  of  the  principal  words, 
which,  for  various  reasons,  I  have  retained,  though  they 
are  seldom  employed  in  modern  writing : — 

Accustomably,  adequation,  additory,  amortize,  amotion,  approved  on, 
assel&th,  (affiliates  iteelf,)  assoiled.  Be-rebussed,  budge.  Cassate,  catch- 
ingness,  cheverel  expressions,  chiefest,  co-evity,  commends,  (commendation,) 
composure,  (composition,)  consulatory,  (consular,)  contrariant,  contem- 
pered,  convented,  coparcenary,  courtlike,  (courtly,)  courtship,  (courtli- 
ness). Derived  into,  defalk,  dilatations,  disparateness*  Engrand,  (aggran- 
dize,) errats,  (errata,)  to  estate,  equivale.  Farced.  Give  a  gird,  (cast  a 
sneer,)  grinded.  Hang-byes,  hoUow  (to  shout).  Informative,  inhold, 
(withhold,)  insculped,  insculption,  inunded,  (inundated).  Joculary. 
Launder,  (laundress,)  leiger-books,-  (ledgers,)  louring,  loveday.  Magni- 
eecant,  managery,  mane,  Mezentism*  No^-of-days.  Partage,  penetrals, 
(the  bowels,)  precessor,  preposed,  (set  over,)  proprietaries,  (proprietors,) 
posthume.  Retractions,  remised,  (remitted,)  robustious.  Septemfluous, 
signeth,  (assigneth,)  sinisterity,  sleighting,  smatch,  (taste,)  sopited,  spick- 
and-span  new,  staple,  (firm,)  suppletory.  Tep-tsttions,  tituled,  (styled,) 
troimced  (puidshed).  Unshakened,  un-unjiversitied.  Vestiary  (vestry)! 
Ware-trash. 

Four  words  of  the  same  class  from  Heylin  are  here 
subjoined ; — 

Eatable,  (debatable,)  Infeedalions,  inheretriees>  (female  heirs,)  tei^diy. 

To  some  of  the  words  here  enumerated,  and  to  a  few 
others,  I  have  subjoined  short  notes,  principally  etymo- 
logical: Such  as,  fuTy  p.  71  ;  douhtyy  98;  toare^trashy 
107;  cousenSy  117;  fl/^dancy,233;^ri/?,280;  dbhomU 
nal  libels  J  517 ;  at-one,  578 ;  and  betine,  612.  A  few 
larger  notes  will  also  be  found;  as  that  on  Heylin's pride 
of  ancestry  J  p.  396 ;  Fuller's  excellent  memory  y  447 ;  D7\ 
Cheynely  495 ;  on  Fuller's  name^  532 ;  Jewel  and  Case, 
576  ;  William  Prynne,  582 ;  Dr,  Cosin,  660,  669  ;  and 
Brook  and  LaJcCy  684. 

Beside  these,  I  have  inserted  two  notes  of  consider- 
able length.  The  first  occurs  in  pp.  241-252,  and  details 
the  incunabula  and  subsequent  pre-eminence  of  mathe- 

^  ^        Digitized  by  VjOOgle 


PREFACE.  V 

matical  studies  in  the  Uniyersity  of  Cambridge,  with 
brief  allusions  to  some  collateral  topics.  The  second 
will  be  found  in  pp.  673-683 ;  and  exhibits  the  ecclesi-^ 
asdcal  peculations  of  Dr.  Cornelius  Burgess  during  the 
loter-regnum,  and  their  infelicitous  termination.  With- 
out that  introduction,  the  reader  will  perceive.  Fuller's 
letter  to  him  would  have  been  utterly  unintelligible.  In 
every  case,  I  have  shown  a  decent  respect  to  my  readers, 
as  well  BB  to  the  character  of  my  author,  by  appending 
to  my  own  notes  the  brief  signature  of  "  Edit." 

The  dif&culties  encountered  by  an  author  who  passed 
through  tbe  press,  in.  the  unsettled  times  of  the  Com- 
monwealth, such  large  productions  as  the  ''Church 
History  "  and  its  accompaniments,  cannot  be  adequately 
conceived  by  any  of  those  who  have  been  nursed,  amidst 
learned  leisure,  in  the  lap  of  peace  and  plenty.  In  the 
dedication  of  the  fifth  book  of  his  "  Church  History  "  to 
the  earl  of  Middlesex,  Fuller  very  eloquently  laments  the 
dispersion  of  his  own  valuable  library,  and  blesses  Divine 
Providence  for  having  secured  to  him  the  uncontrolled 
use  of  the  noble  earl's  large  collection.  In  another 
passage  in  "  the  Appeal,"  (p.  317,)  he  says : — "  For  the 
first  five  years,  during  our  actual  civil  wars,  I  had  little 
list  or  leisure  to  write ;  fearing  to  be  made  a  History, 
and  shifting  daily  for  my  safety.  All  that  time  I  could 
not  live  to  study,  who  did  6nly  study  to  live.  So  soon  as 
God's  goodness  gave  me  a  fixed  habitation,  I  composed 
my  Land  of  Canaan^  or  Pisgah  Sight.'*  The  man  who 
was  called  to  endure  these  and  similar  inconveniences  in 
the  prosecution  of  his  literary  labours,  must  have  pos- 
sessed an  indomitable  spirit  and  an  ardent  love  of 
learning :  and  his  compositions^  published  under  such 
great  disadvantages,  must  not  be  measured  by  the 
standard  of  ordinary  productions.  While  his  "  Church 
History "  was  in  the  press,  he  appears  to  have  resided 
chiefly  at  Waltham  Abbey,  and  to  have  been  somewhat 
irregular  in  his  visits  to  Town  for  the  purpose  of  super- 
intending its  publication/  In  reference  to  this  subject, 
lie  replies  on  one  occasion  to  Heylin : — "  I  have  con- 
cealed nothing  herein  of  moment, — the  blank  being 
insignificant,  and  the  mere  mistake  of  the  printer. 
Before  his  time,  he  was  about  to  begin  a  new  section  and 
dedication,  a^  appears  by  the  to  in  the  text."  ("Appeal,'' 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


PREFACE. 


p.  585.)  On  another  occasion,  this  is  his  form  of  plead* 
ing : — "  Here  I  will  truly  acquaint  the  reader  with  the 
state  of  this  matter.  The  posting  press,  which,  with  the 
time  and  tide,  will  stay  for  no  man,  mistaking  my  copy 
complete,  and  not  attending  my  coming  to  London  that 
morning  from  Waltham,  clapt  it  up  imperfect.  I  must 
therefore,  deservedly,  take  all  the  hlame  and  shame 
thereof  on  myself,  and  here  in  this  sheet  do  puhlic 
penance  for  the  same,  promising  amendment  to  the  ftiU, 
God  willing,  in  the  next  edition."  (Tcfem,  p.  341.)  His 
explanation  relates  to  his  "  report  of  the  proceedings  in 
the  Isle  of  Wight>  between  his  majesty  and  the  Long- 
Parliament  divines  ; "  of  which  report  at  least  one  entire 
page  must  have  been  thus  carelessly  omitted.  His 
explanation  also  furnishes  a  reason  why  I  have  met  with 
numerous  discrepancies  between  the  two  copies  of  his 
"  Church  History  "  and  of  the  "  History  of  Cambridge  " 
which*  are  in  my  possession,  though  only  one  edition  of 
them  was  printed.  These  variations,  amounting  to  more 
than  thirty,  are  all  to  be  accounted  for  by  this  circum- 
stance of  Fuller's  arrival  in  London  from  his  country- 
residence,  when  only  part  of  the  impression  of  each  sheet 
had  been  worked-oflF;  and,  his  quick  eye  catching  the 
sight  of  some  glaring  error,  he  has  instantly  stopped 
the  press  and  had  the  proper  word  or  phrase  inserted 
in  the  remaining  copies  of  the  book.  But  while  I 
urge  this  plea  ostensibly  in  favour  of  my  author,  it  serves 
virtually  to  bespeak  the  indulgence  of  the  reader  towards 
the  editor ;  who,  (with  humility  be  it  spoken,)  beside 
possessing  a  tolerably  accurate  knowledge  of  the  English 
language,  and  a  degree  of  familiarity  (through  his  pre- 
vious course  of  reading)  with  Fuller's  humour  ^nd  the 
peculiar  phraseology  in  which  it  is  usually  clothed,  and 
sometimes  obscured,  ought,  in  the  discharge  of  his 
assumed  ftinctions,  to  have  in  constant  exercise  not  only 
all  the  coolness  and  consideration  which  he  can  com- 
mand, but  also  much  critical  vigilance.* 

*  The  following  passage,  from  page  174  of  the  "  History  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Cambridge,"  affords  a  fair  specimen  of  the  great  consideration  and 
vigilance  necessary  to  be  kept  in  perpetual  requisition,  with  regard  to  the 
recondite  wit  and  original  phraseology  of  my  author : — 
^'  19.  Mctgniaeccmt  Newfy. 

"  Dr.  Thomas  Nevyle,  the  eighth  Master  of  this  College,  answering  his 
anagram  *most  heavenly,'  and  practising  his  own  allusive  motto,  Ne  vile 


Digitized  by 


Ljoogle 


PREFACE.  vii 

Upwards  of  two  years  have  elapsed  since  the  first  four 
sheets  of  this  volume  passed  through  the  press ;  and 
other  four  were  in  a  state  of  readiness,  when  I  saw  the 
announcement  of  a  new  edition  of  "the  History  of 
the  University  of  Cambridge,"  from  the  University  press. 
Having  some  knowledge  of  the  proposed  editor,  the  late 

wUfy  being)  by  the  rales  of  the  philosopher  himself  to  be  accounted 
lieyaKoTTounrffy  'as  of  great  performances,'  for  the  general  good,"  &c. 

This  short  sentence  comprises  two  anagrams.  One  is  on  the  surname 
only,  Newly  becoming  Nbyyyl  by  means  of  a  single  transposition ;  the  w, 
according  to  ancient  usage,  being  resolved  into  yy.  The  other  is  on  both 
the  Christian  and  sur-name ;  most  heavenfy  containing  all  the  letters  needful 
for  Thoica^  Nevtle.  A  third,  Ne  vUe  velis,  is  so  obvious  as  not  to  be  mis- 
understood. But^  beside  these,  Fuller  has  invented  an  approfniate  word 
to  suit  his  purpose,  moffniseccmt  (^^  cutting  out  or  contriving  great  mat- 
ters") being  evidentiy  intended  to  correspond  with  He  vile  velis, 
'^Devise  not  any  mean  thing,"  and  both  raised  to  their  highest  pitch  by 
their  completion  in  fjLeydkoiroenrjs^  (the  exact  notation  of  the  woid  in  the 
folio  edition,)  ^^as  of  great  performances."  The  whole  sentiment  will  be, 
in  brief:  "Thomas  Nevyle  did  not  only  (newly)  *recentiy*  devise  great 
things,  but  he.  has  likewise  performed  tiiem."  But  some  difficulty  exists 
in  the  Greek  epithet  which  is  employed ;  and,  on  the  first  view  of  it,  I  was 
persuaded  that  Fuller  had  originally  written  noirjrrig  as  the  latter  part  of 
this  compound  word.  It  would  then  most  significantly  have  expressed  the 
meaning  which  he  has  himself  attached  to  it,  "as  of  great  performances." 
On  reflecting,  however,  that  some  tyro  or  other  might  entertain  the  suppo- 
sition, from  the  use  of  the  Greek  term,  that  Nevyle  was  represented  as 
having  been  "a  great  poet,"  (a  very  common  signification  of  the  same 
word,)  Fuller  probably  altered  it  to  the  form  in  which  it  stands  in  his  folio 
edition.  This  entire  paragraph,  therefore,  after  much  thought,  I  sufiered  to 
remain ;  making  only  the  slight  addition  of  an  iota  to  the  antepenultimate 
of  the  Greek  word,  (according  to  the  rather  unclassical  method  of  the  word- 
makers  medice  et  infimce  QremtcstiSyJ  to  designate  its  immediate  derivation 
from  fuydkoTToiea^ — a  connexion  evidentiy  pointed  out  by  the  old  historian's 
verbiage,  and  designed  to  be  preserved. 

After  perusing  this  passage,  had  I  ventured  to  alter  the  title  of  it 
into  Mapnijicent  Nevyle,  and  metamorphosed  the  proper  Greek  word  into 
fuyakoirpeirrfs, — ^whatever  good  opinion  might  have  been  previously  enter- 
tained of  my  harmless  pretensions  to  learning  and  judgment, — I  should  at 
once  have  forfeited  every  claim  to  public  confidence  and  favour,  by  such  a 
glaring  instance  of  utter  recklessness  and  palpable  ignorance.  For,  setting 
aside  the  consideration  of  other  topics,  fi€yako7rp€nrjs  itself  would  convey,  to 
the  mind  of  a  competent  Greek  scholar,  a  very  difierent  idea  from  that 
which  is  communicated  by  the  derivative  from  iroieoa  which  Fufler  has 
here  given ;  the  former  word  usually  designating  an  eastern  or  passive 
display  of  grandeur,  proper  to  the  station  of  the  person  that  exhibits  it ; 
the  latter,  an  active,  energetic  course  of  splendid  deeds,  such  as  was  intended 
by  Fuller  himself,  no  contemptible  critic,  when  he  gave  this  as  the  plain 
English  of  it, — ^**  being  himself  to  be  accounted  as  ofgreca  performances.'^ 

Instances  of  this  description  might  be  furnished  in  abundance,  through- 
out the  three  productions  which  are  here  presented  to  the  public. 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ IC 


vMi  PREFACE* 

Rev.  M.  Prickett,  A.M.,  through  a  common  friend,  I 
leamt  from  him  that  the  "  additional  notes,"  which  that 
lamented  gentleman  intended  to  write  in  elucidation  of 
Fuller,  would  he  cast  in  a  mould  strictly  local  and  anti- 
quarian. In  order  to  distinguish  the  edition,  with  which 
I  had  been  entrusted  from  its  announced  competitor,  and 
to  impart  a  greater  degree  of  interest  to  some  of  its  pages, 
I  thought  the  only  method  left;  for  me,  and  perhaps  the 
best  I  could  have  devised,  was  that  of  delineating  the 
more  modern  intellectuality  of  Cambridge.  I  there- 
fore determined  to  wrfte  copious  biographical  notices  of 
the  most  eminent  members  of  each  College  who  have 
flourished  since  the  days  of  Fuller,  and  to  append  them, 
in  alphabetical  order,  to  the  end  of  those  sections  in 
which  their  Colleges  are  severally  described.  To  deli- 
neate the  living  members  who  have  shed  deserved  renown 
on  this  celebrated  seat  of  learning,  formed  no  part  of  my 
vast  design.     For 

"Who  can  speak 
The  numerous  worthies  of  the  maiden  reign  ?  " 

In  carrying  out  this  plan,  I  was  occupied  at  intervals 
during  eighteen  months ;  and  I  employed  upon  it  the 
same  fearlessness  and  frankness  which  have  always 
marked  the  expression  of  my  opinions.  But  I  soon  dis- 
covered, that  these  records,  though  individually  brief,  and 
sufficiently  graphic  to  designate  each  man  of  celebrity, 
increased  in  quantity,  till  at  length  my  yet  imperfect  col- 
lection of  sketches  amounted  to  such  a  mass  as  greatly 
exceeded  the  limits  which  I  had  prescribed  to  myself.  I 
was  on  this  account  induced  to  abandon  the  undertaking  ; 
but  I  look  forward  with  hope  to  a  more  advanced  period 
in  my  life,  when  my  judgment  shall  have  become  more 
matured,  and  my  prepossessions,  if  not  so  strong,  may  at 
least  not  be  so  strongly  expressed  ;  and  when,  if  still 
favoured  by  Heaven  with  the  possession  of  vigorous  facul- 
ties, I  may  be  inclined  to  finish  a  series  of  original  lite- 
rary sketches  concerning  those  learned  Cambridge-men 
who  have  rendered  themselves  famous  at  any  time  during 
the  last  two  centuries.  This  paragraph  will,  I  trust,  be 
favourably  received  as  a  needful  apology  for  the  delay 
which  has  occurred  in  the  publication  of  the  present 
volume. 

JAMES  NICHOLS. 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


CONTENTS. 


HISTORY  OP  THE   UNIVERSITY   OP 
CAMBRIDGE. 

SECTION  I.    A.D.  1066-1265. 

Thb  low  condition  of  Cambridge  at  the  Conquest — Cambridge  Castle 
built  by  king  William— Henry  Beauderk  bred  in  Cambridge;  proba- 
bly a  benefactor  to  the  University — Mischievous  Montgomery— 
Picot's  foundation  in  St.  Giles's  parish— The  injurious  original  of 
impropriations — ^Cambridge  first  made  a  corporation — ^The  original 
of  Midsummer  Fair— The  first  coming  of  Jews  to  Cambridge — Cam-* 
bridge  restored  to  learning  by  the  abbot  of  Crowland.  A  grain  of 
seed  soon  grown  a  tree.  Tlie  time  of  this  author's  writing — ^An  appa- 
rent injury  offered  to  Cambridge.  She  is  vindicated  from  such  as 
traduce  her — Pain  Peverel  founds  Barnwell  Priory — ^Alphred  of 
Beverley,  student  in  Cambridge— Unwonder  me  this  wonder — ^The 
first  earl  of  Cambridge — David  king  of  Scots,  earl  of  Cambridge — 
Observations  collected  from  this  grant— Nigellus's  foundation  in 
Cambridge.  Roger  of  Hereford,  student  in  Cambridge— A  merciless 
fire.  Oxford  deserted,  and  partly  removed  to  Cambridge — John  of 
St.  Omer's,  a  poet,  bred  in  Cambridge.  Joceline  Brakeland,  a  histo- 
rian therein — ^The  University  in  a  sad  condition ;  which  still  continu- 
eth — Eels  sent  from  Cambridge  to  Oxford.  A  gaol  made  of  a  Jew's 
house.  Privileges  confirmed  to  Cambridge — ^Paris  students  invited 
over  *into  England — Counterfeit  scholars  do  much  mischief.  The 
sheriff  commanded  to  suppress  these  malignants — ^The  unconscion- 
ableness  of  the  townsmen  regulated  by  the  king's  letters — ^The  origi- 
nal of  taxers — ^The  ill  effects  of  tournaments ;  forbidden  within  five 
miles  of  Cambridge.  Mothers  of  misrule.  A  sad  chance— Foul  work 
in  Lent — ^The  first  founding  of  Peter-House— Brawls  and  bickerings 
betwixt  southern  and  northern  scholars.  The  northern  men  worsted. 
The  matter  referred  to  the  judges  itinerant ;  remitted  to  the  former 
commissioners — Northampton  University  begun,  and  dissolved — ^Mr. 
Brian  Twyne  justly  condemned,  for  injecting  causeless  suspicions — 
His  needless  cavil  confuted— <Quick  eyes  to  find  a  fault  where  none  is. 
Answer  this  dilemma.  Tlie  Tower  Records  clear  the  cavil— A  need- 
less question  declined.  Why  Oxford  more  prejudiced  than  Cambridge 
by  Northampton  University.    Pages  1—29. 

SECTION  II.    A.  D.  1266— 1344. 

The  king's  intentions  to  fortify  Cambridge.    Ditch  made;  walls  meant. 
Cambridge  plundered  on  the  king's  departure — Necton,  first  Car* 

^  Digitized  by  LiiOOgle 


X  CONTENTS  OF  THE 

melite  doctor  in  divinity.    Why  Cannelites  at  first  would  not  com- 
mence.   Necton  first  breaks  the  ice,  and  others  follow  in  his  track — 
Oxford's  antiquary  justly  taxed.    Petrus  Blsesensis  to  be  believed 
before  Brian  Twyne — ^Tournaments  again  forbidden — Prince  Edward 
ordereth  an  agreement  between  the  scholars   and    townsmen — No 
University  as  yet  in  Scotland  and  Ireland^  Cambridge  receives  all 
countries — A  composition  betwixt  the  University  of  Cambridge  and 
the  archdeacon  of   Ely — Observations :  University  equivocal.    The 
officers  thereof— Query :   what  meant  by  **  Magister  OhmeriaF" — 
The  bishop  accused   of  presumption    herein — Some  over-harsh  in 
their  censures.    Moderation  is  best — ^The  ancient  Hostels  in  Cam- 
bridge—Inns less  than  Hostels — ^Two  hundred  Halls  said  to  be  in 
Oxford.    Magnitude  supplies  multitude — ^The    benefit  and    use  of 
Hostels.'  A  catalogue  of   learned    Cambridge  Hostellers— Ancient 
religious  houses  in  Cambridge — Frequent  contests  betwixt  Friars  and 
University-men— A  list  of  learned  Friars,  writers— The  first  endowing  of 
Peter-House.    Zoars  may  grow  great  in  time— A  general  rule  about  our 
Catalogue  of  Benefactors — Cautela  non  noeet — Repetition  of  bishops, 
why  necessary — A  commendable  custom  of  this  College-- The  eldest 
English-endowed    College.    Exception    to    the  contrary  answered. 
The  truth  unpartially  stated— Three  places  for  the  Petreans'  devo- 
tions.    [Succession  of  Chancellors.    Brawl  betwixt  University-men 
and  Friars.    Bull  of  pope  John  XXI.  to  the  University] — A  neces- 
sary caution.     Studium  and   Universitas  the  same  in  effect — ^A  facile 
mistake — Michael-House  founded   by  Herveus   Stanton — University 
Hall   built  by  Richard  Badew.     Rebuilt    (after  it  was  burnt)   by 
Elizabeth  countess  of  Clare,  and  named  Clare  Hall — Richard  III.  a 
(seeming)   Benefactor  to  Clare  Hall.    This  Hall    long  chapel-less. 
Solere  the  same  with  Clare  Hall— The  Hall  lately  re-edified — King 
Edward  foundeth  King's  Hall — ^Three  eminences  of  this  HalL     Tern- 
pora  mutantur.    The  happiness  of  this  Hall— Privileges  granted  by 
king  Edward  III.  to  the  University — A  German  marquess  made  earl 
of  Cambridge,  A.  D.  1340 ;  and  a  Belgian  earl,  A.  D.  1342— Mary  de 
Saint  Paul  founds  Pembroke  Hall,  and  Denny  Abbey— T^o  remark- 
able pieces  of  plate.    An  invidious  elogy  of  this  Hall.    Robert  de 
Thorp  Lord  Chancellor — A  Greek  and  grateful  scholar.    Benefactors 
in  losiAg  their  lives.    Pages  30—67. 

SECTION  III.    A.D.  1344—1396. 

The  two  Cambridge  guilds  united— Cofyw   ChrUti,  or  Bene't  College 
built.     Henry  duke   of    Lancaster  the    honorary  founder.    Stow'a 
mistake,  with  the  ground  thereof— The  superstitious  procession  on 
CofjnU'Christi  day  endeth  in  a  feast  at  Bene't  College.    The  canopy 
ominously  fired — ^The  townsmen  quarrel  for  their  dinner :  are  cast  by 
the  king's  commissioners— Duchess  of   Norfolk  builds  their  but- 
tresses—The benefaction  of  Matthew  Parker — ^A  great  favourer  of 
Norfolk-men- Dr.  Sowde  and  Dr.  Copcot.    The  College  arms  why  , 
altered.    Where  I  had  my  instructions  of  this  College— A  bank  and  j 
a  lank  of  charity.    William  Bateman  foundeth  Trinity  Hall.    The 
Masters'  catalogue  might  be  amended— A  pious  design.    A  bitter 
retort — A  dispensation  for   increase  of    commons.    The  exceeding] 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


HISTORY  OF  THE  CNtVERSITV  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  zi 

cheapness  of  all  commodities — Causes  of  dearness.  Nor  fall»  nor 
fasting — Conrenient  diet  needful  for  students — Oonville-Hall  founded. 
Archbishop  Ufford  a  commoner  therein.  This  Ha)l  transplanted — 
Two  noble  Students.  Fishwick's  Hostel  given  to  this  Hall— Papal 
indulgences.  Masters,  Benefactors,  &c.  of  Gonyille  HalL  The  earl 
of  Cambridge — A  contest  about  choosing  of  ChanceUor^Discords 
betwixt  Dominicans  and  Carmelites.  The  Dominican  chargeth. 
The  Carmelite  receiveth  the  charge,  and  conquereth — Chancer  a 
Cambridge  student — A  rebellious  riot  of  the  townsmen  of  Cambridge. 
University  monuments  martyred — ^The  townsmen  called  to  a  legal 
account.  Their  pitiful  plea — Privileges  conferred  on  the  University. 
Focalia  prized  by  the  Chancellor — ^An  order  that  no  scholar  is  to  be 
admitted  under  eighteen  years  of  age.  The  Franciscans  oppose  this 
order.  The  issue  uncertain.  [Beneficed  men  licensed  by  the  pope  as 
Non-residents] — A  parliament  kept  at  Cambridge — Canterbury  mis- 
printed for  Cambridge  in  the  statute-book.  The  excellent  statutes  of 
Cambridge  parliament  against  wandering  Scholars — ^A  strange  miracle. 
Not  like  those  in  the  Scripture.  A  strange  plague  in  Cambridge. 
The  like  after  was  at  Oxford — John  Bromiard,  a  fierce  anti-Wicklivist. 
Both  best  by  turns.  Statute  against  fugitive  Friars — ^The  first  person 
of  honour  Chancellor  of  Cambridge.  Cambridge's  Chancellor  no 
longer  confirmed  by  Ely's  bishop.    Pages  68—89. 

SECTION  IV.    A.D.  1400—1436. 

The  large  privilege  of  Cambridge  for  printings  much  improved  therein — 
The  University  visited  by  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury.  The  arch- 
bishop's mandate  to  the  Chancellor.  Another  to  every  College.  A 
mistake  in  the  printed  date — The  occasion  of  this  visitation.  The 
archbishop  comes  in  pomp  to  Cambridge.  All  the  scholars  appear 
before  him.  The  Chancellor  first  examined.  Several  chests  in  Cam- 
bridge^ with  their  donors — Several  Colleges  visited  by  the  archbishop's 
Commissioners.  Why  Trinity  Hall  first  visited.  The  plea  of  the 
guardian  thereof;  summoning  none  to  appear  out  of  the  Province  of 
Canterbury.  An  observation — Clare  HaU  visited,  and  Corpus  Christi 
College,  and  the  White  Canons — ^A  day  of  npn-term  with  the  visiters; 
Radegund  nuns  visited.  Their  visitation  ended — Query,  about 
omissions  of  the  Commissioners.  Hostels  why  not  visited.  Reforma- 
tion remitted  to  the  archbishop's  leisure— Query  :  what  now  became 
of  Cambridge's  ancient  exemptions  ?  A  probable  conjecture— Oxford 
Argentine  chaUengeth  all  Cambridge.  An  account  of  his  achieve- 
ments, (after  prose,)  now  in  verse — ^The  Chancellor  sent  to  Rome — 
The  original  of  Vice-Chancellors.  Thomas  Markant's  excellent  book, 
lost  and  found,  lost  and  found,  lost — Difference  betwixt  the  Univer- 
sity and  Londoners.  The  original  of  Sturbridge-fair.  Sale  of  the 
privileges  thereof  seasonably  prevented — A  beneficial  grant  to  Uni- 
versity-men, refused  by  their  own  folly;  but,  on  second  thoughts, 
accepted— Differences  betwixt  the  bishop  of  Ely  and  the  University, 
remitted  by  the  pope  to  the  prior  of  Barnwell.  The  pope  giveth  his 
sentence  for  Cambridge's  exemption— >A  constant  tenure. of  princely 
earls — ^The  University's  money  embezzled.  Never  restored  to  the 
same  degree.    Vehement  suspicion  of  corruption.     Pages  90—104. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


xii  CONTENTS  OF  TUB 


SECTION  V.    A.  D.  1436—1505. 


Cambridge  fens  endeavoured  to  be  drained.  All  in  vain.  Arguments  pro 
and  con  fen-draining — Since  effected  to  admiration.  Labor  improbus 
omnia  vincit,  Cambridge  why  jealous  herein ;  never  pleased.  Deep 
philosophy.  A  real  refutation.  Cambridge  air  bettered — King  Henry 
foundeth  a  small  College,  and  William  Bingham  another.  Both 
united  and  enlarged  into  King's  College.  The  admirable  chapel— 
A  catalogue  of  King's  College  Worthies — Why  so  few  have  been 
Benefactors  to  this  House.  The  instrumental  advancers  of  so  worthy 
a  work.  Dr.  Sommerset  said  to  be  ungratefully  used  by  Cambridge 
— King  Edward  IV.  a  malefactor  to  this  College — An  old  debt  well 
paid.  The  arms  of  King's  College— A  strange  speech  (pretended)  of 
king  Henry  YI. ;  considering  then  Cambridge  equal  with  Oxford  in 
number  of  Colleges — ^The  speech  avouched  by  no  historian.  A 
memorable  tradition,  and  a  necessary  conclusion — ^The  original  of 
the  Schools  in  Cambridge.  The  old  Schools  a  mean  structure.  The 
several  founders  of  the  modern  Schools — Cambridge  library  aug- 
mented with  many  precious  books — Queen's  College  founded  by 
queen  Margaret.  The  inscription  on  the  first  stone.  Queen  Elizabeth 
finished  what  queen  Margaret  began — Some  truth  in  much  talk. 
Give  what  is  thine  own.  Two  coats  for  one  body.  A  benefactor- 
general  to  learning.  An  ingenious  and  useful  design — ^Erasmus,  a 
Student  in  Queen's  College — ^This  founding  of  Catherine  Hall — Pro- 
perly a  pretty  Hall — The  foundation  of  Jesus  College.  The  inconti- 
nence of  Saint  Radegund's  nuns.  John  Major's  testimony  hereof— 
The  character  of  bishop  Alcock.  Jesus  College  the  bishop  of  Ely's 
House — First  Chancellor  for  life — Erasmus  studieth  in  Queen's  Col- 
lege ;  was  first  Greek-  then  Divinity-professor.  No  mercenary  writers 
in  Cambridge.  Cambridge  within  few  years  much  improved  in 
learning — Erasmus's  judgment  of  Cambridge  and  Oxford.  A  second, 
a  third,  verdict  of  the  same.  His  character  of  Cambridge  townsmen. 
Pages  105—133. 

SECTION  VI.    A.D.  1505— 1535. 

King  Henry  comes  to  Cambridge— The  building  of  St.  Mary's — The 
foundation  of  Christ's  College.  The  fair  endowments  thereof.  A 
lady  of  pity — John  Major,  a  Student  in  Christ's  College— John 
Leland,  Fellow  therein — Reformation  of  augmentation — ^The  worthies 
of  this  College — Caution  general — ^The  death  of  the  lady  Margaret. 
The  carefulness  of  her  executors — The  site  of  St.  John's  College. 
Crowded  with  Students — ^A  rape  offered  on  the  Muses — An  infant 
rebellion,  seasonably  crushed — A  rake-hell  to  be  chosen  before  a 
dunce,  llie  first  [and]  second  reasons.  An  ingenuous  Master  well 
met  with  an  ingenuous  Fellow.  Well  spoken,  well  taken — Confess, 
and  be  forgiven^Peter  de  Valence  excommunicated.  Many  years 
9fter,  he  confessetb  his  fault — Monks'  turned  into  Buckingham  Col- 
lege— A  pair  of  learned  writers — The  untimely  death  of  the  duke  of 
Buckingham— Crook's  character — A  catalogue  of  Cambridge  Orators. 


Digitized  by 


L^oogle 


HISTORY  OF  THE  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  xitt 

*— Bilney's  scruple  in  conscience — ^Two  opposite  parties,  for  and 
a/^ainst  superstition — ^Latimer  converted  by  Bilney.  [Cranmer  ejected 
from  his  fellowship  for  being  married.]  Crook^  out«bought,  departeth 
to  Oxford — ^The  privilege  of  the  University — Latimer's  sermon  of 
cards — ^A  suspected  (if  not  a  false)  report — [Cranmer  retires  to  Wal* 
tham  on  account  of  the  plague.  Of  which  Mr.  Stafford  dies]  Mr. 
Stafford  possibly  Margaret  Professor— Bennet,  a  martyr  of  Cambridge 
—A  doughty  pair  of  challengers,  well  worsted  for  their  pains.  They 
return  with  shame.  The  report  qualified.  A  causeless  jeer.  More 
modesty  argues  not  less  learning — [The  University's  renunciation  of 
the  pope's  supremacy] — ^The  course,  of  the  Scholars'  studies  altered 
for  the  better — ^The  Lord  Cromwell  chosen  Chancellor,  in  the  place 
of  bishop  Fisher.  The  great  good  he  did  the  University — Craiford's 
character — ^The  first  general  visitation  of  Cambridge,  jure  Regio, 
The  injunctions  to  the  University  of  Dr.  Legh,  Chancellor,  Crom- 
well's surrogate — King  Henry's  injunctions  to  the  University  of  Cam. 
bridge — ^The  submission  of  the  Master  and  Fellows  of  Gonville  Hall 
to  the  king's  injunctions — University  records  delivered  ^to  the  lord 
Cromwell — No  more  doctors  of  Canon  Lawi  which  is  annexed  to 
Civil.     Pages  133—167. 

SECTION  Vn.    A.D.  153e— 1569. 

A  combination  against  Dr.  Metcalfe.  Great  deserts  soon  forgotten. 
Guilt  haunted  with  justice — Cambridge  records  re-delivered  unto 
them.  Query.  Whether  the  popes'  bulls  were  in  specie  restored — 
Gardiner  made  Chancellor.  Contention  about  pronouncing. of  Greek. 
The  champions  for  the  new 'mode.  An  inartificial  argument — ^The 
lord  Audley  builds  Maudlin  College.  The  arms  thereof — An  ill 
neighbour  to  a  studious  College.  A  monarch  Master — A  good 
proffer.  Was  it  wisely  refused  ? — Charitable  Mr.  Palmer.  Learning 
runs  low — Trinity  College  founded  by  king  Henry  VIH. — A  dutiful 
daughter — MagnUeeant  Newly — Eminent  men  in  all  professions,  with 
many  more  living — King's  Professors  founded.  Catalogues  of  them 
very  imperfect — The  lord  Protector  made  Chancellor.  The  inso- 
leacies  of  the  townsmen.  Ascham's  letters  procure  friends  to  the 
University — A  proffer  of  the  Protector's  to  unite  Clare  and  Trinity 
Hall;  blasted  by  bishop  Gardiner — An  extraordinary  act  before  the 
king's  commissioners— Northumberland  made  Chancellor — Bucer 
and  Fagius  called  to  Cambridge,  made  Professors  there.  The  death 
of  Fagius.  Tremelltus,  Hebrew  Professor  in  Cambridge — Henry  and 
Charles  Brandon  die*  of  the  sweating-sickness — Several  dates  of 
Bucer's  death — A  loud  lie  of  a  lewd  Jesuit — Queen  Rlary  secretly 
passeth  into  Suffolk — Dr.  Sandys  preacheth  before  the  duke  of 
Northumberland.  The  duke's  retrograde  motion.  Read,  and  won- 
der at  human  uncertainty.  The  hard  usage  of  Dr.  Sandys — Ma^sters 
placed  and  displaced — Dr.  Caius  foundeth  Caius  College ;  giveth  it 
good  land,  and  good  building,  good  statutes,  a  new  name,  and.  hiero- 
glyphical  arms.  No  violent  Papist — A  numerous  nursery  of  eminent 
physicians — Cardinal  Pole  Chancellor  both  of  Cambridge  and  Oxford. 
His  visitation  of  Cambridge— Cambridge  visited  by  queen  Elizabeth's 
commissioners.    Pages  168— 194.  Digitized  by  LjOOQIC 


xir  CONTENTS  OF  THE 


SECTION  VIII.    A.  D.  1564— 1618. 

Queen  Elizabeth  comes  to  Cambridge.    Her  oration  to  the  Universitf, 
Noblemen  made  Masters  of  Arts— The  first  cause  of  Mr.  Cartwright's 
discontentment.    The  same  disavowed  by  his  followers — ^The  factions 
in  Trinity  College.    Whitgift  and  Cartwright  clash  in  the  Schools— 
Whitgift's  commencing  Doctor.    Whitgift  summons  Cartwright,  who 
gives  in  a  list  of  his  opinions — Dr.  Baker,  Provost  of  King's  College, 
flies  for  religion.    Roger  Goade  chosen  in  his  place.    [^Number  of 
Students  in  the  University] — ^Rent^orn  first  reserved  to  Colleges,  by 
the  procurement  of  Sir  T.  Smith.    Great  profit  thereby — A  contest 
betwixt  Dr.  Baro  and  Mr.  Chadderton — Emmanuel  College  founded 
by  Sir  Walter  Mildmay,  who  causelessly  fell  into  the  queen's  displea- 
sure.    His  answer  to  queen  Elizabeth — Dr.  Holdsworth  refuseth  a 
bishopric.    A  good  meditation  of  a  dying  saint.    Two  grand  bene- 
factQrs.    The  living  omitted — ^The   last  Yice-Chancellor  then,    but 
Fellow  of  the  House — An  unfaithful  Register — Barrett  summoned 
before  the  consistory.     His  solemn  recantation — ^The  sickness  and 
death  of  Dr.  Whitaker.    His  sad  and  solemn  funeral.     Overall  suc- 
ceeds him  in  the  Professor's  place — Dr.  Baro  quits  his  Professor's 
place.    Different  judgments  about  his  departure — ^The  first  founda- 
tion of  Sidney- Sussex  College.    The  spite  of  Index  Expurgatorius, 
The  College-mortmain  how  procured — A  little  babe  (thank  God  and 
good  nurses  !)  well  batteled — Sir  Francis  Clark  deservedly  accounted 
«  by-founder.    To  whom  sir  John  Brereton  not  much  inferior.    A 
chapel  added  after  some  years.    A  child's  prayer  for  his  mother — 
Club-law  acted  in  Clare-Hall.    Complained  of  by  the  townsmen  to 
the  council-table.     How  declined — Robert  earl  of  Essex  made  Chan- 
cellor.    Sir  Robert  Cecil  chosen  Chancellor — King  James's  matchless 
entertainment  at  Hinchinbrook ;    where  the  Doctors  of  Cambridge 
wait  on  his  majesty — ^The  death  of  Mr.  Perkins — ^Recusants'  pre- 
sentations given  to  the  Universities.    The  statute,  how  frequently 
frustrated  by  Recusants.     Burgesses  granted  the  Universities — ^The 
death  and  high  epitaph  of  Dr.  Playfere — ^Master  Amese  troubled 
about  his  sermon  in  St.  Mary's,  against  all  playing  at  cards  and  dice. 
He  leaveth  the  College— Mr.  Sympson's  sermon  and  recantation — ^The 
first  and  last  knight  mayor  of  Cambridge.     Pages  195—224. 

SECTION  IX.    A.D.  1618— 1643. 

Henry  Howard  Chancellor  of  Cambridge.  Sometimes  it  hits.  His 
learned  book — ^The  death  of  Dr.  Butler — ^The  marquess  of  Hamilton 
made  earl  of  Cambridge.  Mr.  Preston  prosecuted  by  the  commis- 
sary; and  how  escaping.  The  lord  Mainard  foundeth  a  Logic- 
Professor.  The  Scholars'  number — ^A  tough  canvass  for  Trinity- 
lecture.  Dr.  Preston  carries  it  clear.  King  James's  last  coming  to 
Cambridge — ^The  death  of  Mr.  Andrew  Downes.  Mr.  Creighton 
chosen  his  successor.  Tlie  duke  of  Buckingham  elected  Chancellor. 
Th«  earl  of  Holland  made  Chancellor— The  lord  Brooke  founded 
an    History-Professor.     Dr.    Dorislaus    accused— Country    penury. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


HISTORY  OF  WALTHAM-ABBEY.  xv 

Cambridge  plenty.  The  candle-suit  with  the  townsmen.  The  plague 
in  Cambridge.  Good  counseL  King  Charles  and  queen  Mary  come 
to  Cambridge — Master  Adams  founds  an  Arabic  Professorship.  A 
smart  passage  in  a  sermon.  Mr.  Bernard  gives  distaste  with  his 
preaching.  Convented  in  the  High  Commission,  refnseth  to  recant, 
and  dieth'-^Organs  erected  in  chapels— College-plate  eent  to  the 
king.  Thd  act  aggravated,  and  excused,  Three  Doetots  imprieoned 
in  the  Tower,  tmd  the  Vice-Chancellor  in  Ely-House— The  Heads 
deny  the  Parliament  money.  The  death  of  Dr.  Ward— The  oath  of 
discovery  tendered,  and  refused.  Mr.  Ash  disavoweth  any  such  oath 
—The  Covenant  generally  tendered,  and  refused — Offence  taken  at 
bishop  Brownrigg's  sermon.  Ejectment  of  Masters,  Fellows,  and 
Scholars  from  Queen's  College.  What  became  of  so  many  ejected 
Fellows.  The  Chaplains'  plea  for  themselves. — Great  alteration  in 
Heads  of  Houses— The  sad  effects  of  war.  Townsmen,  tax  Scholars- 
Moderate  men's  judgment.  St.  Andrew's  Church  repaired— The 
author's  just  apology.  A  witty  homonymous  answer.  A  prayer — 
Additional  note  by  the  Editor,  on  the  introduction  of  Mathematics 
into  the  University.    Pi^es  225^252. 


THE  HISTORY  OF  WALTHAM-ABBEY. 


INTRODUCTION. 

The  author's  design — ^Waltham,  why  so  named.  The  situation  thereof. 
Excused  from  bad  air.  First  founded  by  Tovy.  Falls  back  to  the 
crown.  Bestowed  on  earl  Harold — ^The  model  of  the  modem  church. 
Mortality  triumphant — A  dean  and  canons  founded  at  Waltham. 
Seventeen  manors  confirmed  to  them  by  the  Confessor — Harold 
crowned,  killed,  and  buried  •  at  Waltham.  Deforming  Reformers. 
Pages  253—259. 

II. 

THE  RE-FOUNDATION  OF  WALTHAM-ABBBT  BY  HENRY  U. 

Waltham  canons  in  a  sad  condition.  The  industry  of  Robert  Fuller,  last 
abbot  of  Waltham — Queen  Maud  gives  Waltham  Monks  tf  mill: 
queen  Adelisia,  the  tithes.  King  Stephen's  bounty— King  Henry 
dissolves  the  dean  and  canons  at  Waltham.  Augustinians  substi- 
tuted in  their  room.  Rome-land  in  Waltham.  Fits-Aucher  settled 
at  Copt-Hall.  Hugh  Neville  a  bountiful  benefactor— [King  Henry 
III.  bestows  a  market  and  a  fair.]  Waltham  market — ^Broils  betwixt 
the  abbot  and  the  townsmen  about  commons.  The  sturdiness  of 
the  townsmen.  The  most  guilty  first  accuse.  The  abbot  comes  off 
conqueror — The  suit  betwixt  the  abbot  of  Waltham  and  tlie  lord  of 
Chesthunt.    A  like  not  the  same.    The  suit  determined.    Accessions 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


xti  CONTENTS  OF  THE 

to   lengthen    the  cause— Ghesihunt    Nunnery  founded.    Copt-Hall 
passed  to  king  Henry  VHI.     Pages  259 — 266. 

HI. 

THE    EXTRACTION,    CHARTER,    DEATH,     AND    ISSUE    OF    SIR    ANTHONY 
DENNY,  ON  WHOM  KING  HENRY  Tin.  BESTOWED  WALTHAM-ABBEY. 

A  lease  of  Waltham-Abbey  given  to  sir  Anthony  Denny.  John  Denny, 
the  great  soldier  in  France.  Edmond  Denny»  baron  of  the  Exchequer 
— ^Anthony  Denny's  high  commendations.  His  epitaph  made  by  the. 
lord  Howard.    His  issue  by  Dame  Joan  his  wife.    Pages  266— '268. 

rv. 

THE    CONDITION    OF    WALTHAH-CHURCH    FROM    THE    DISSOLXTTION    OF 
THE  ABBEY  UNTIL  THE  DEATH  OF  KING  HENRY   VUL. 

Anno  1542,  the  thirty-fourth  of  Henry  VHI.— 1643,  the  thirty-fifth  of 
Henry  VHI.— 1544,  the  thirty-sixth  of  Henry  VIII.— 1546,  the  thirty- 
eighth  of  Henry  VIII.    Pages  268—271. 


THE     STATE    OF     WALTHAM-CHURCH     DURING     TH|i     REIGN    OF     KINO 

EDWARD  VI. 

Anno  1549,  the  third  of  Edward  VI.— 1551,  the  fifth  of  Edward  VI. 
Pages  271,  272. 

VI. 

CHURCH-ALTERATIONS  IN    THE  REIGN  OF  QUEEN    MARY. 
Anno  1554,  MaruB  primo-^l5S6,  Mari€B  iertio.    Pages  272—275. 

VII. 

THE  CONDITION  OF  THE  CHURCH  FROM  THE  BEGINNING  OF  QUEEN 
ELIZABETH  TO  THIS  DAY. 

Anno  1558,  Elizabetlue  primo — 1562,  EUzabet/uB  gutn^o— 1563,  EUzahetluB 
sexto — High  time  to  knock  off.  James  earl  of  Carlisle  present  owner 
of  Waltham — Nicholas  the  most  eminent  abbot  of  Waltham.  John 
de  Waltham.  Roger  Waltham  a  learned  writer — Hugh  Neville 
buried  in  Waltham ;  and  also  Robert  Passellew — A  heap  of  difficulties 
cast  together.  Queries  on  queries — King  Charles's  last  coming  to 
Waltham.  Conditionally  granteth  the  repairing  of  the  church ;  but 
it  miscarrieth.    Pages  275—280. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  xril 

THE  APPEAL  OP  INJURED  INNOCENCE. 
PAET  I. 

INTRODUCTION. 
ooNTAmnfa    fvlusr'b    xntaoduotion,   foubtbbn    ohaptbbs:     his 

ANBWB&  TO  DR.  HETLIN's  TITLE-PAaS  TO  THE  '^OBKERAL  PRE- 
PACE,"  TO  THE  ^^  NECESSARY  INTRODUCTION,"  AND  TO  "tHB 
ANIMABTBB8IONS  ON  BOOK  I.  OF  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY  OF 
BRITAIN.* 

CHAPTER  I. 

J  oat  it  is  impossible  for  the  pen  of  any  historiani,  writing  in  (as  ours)  a 
divided  age,  to  please  all  parties,  and  how  easy  it  is  to  cavil  at  any 
author.    Pages  281 — 285. 

CHAPTER  H. 

Why  the  author  desired  and  hoped  never  to  come  under  the  pen  of  the 
Animadvertor  in  a  controversial  difference.    Pages  285 — 287. 

CHAPTER  HI. 

That,  after  serious*  debate,  the  author  found  himself  necessitated  to  make 
this  **  Appeal "  in  his  own  just  vindication.    Pages  287>  288. 

CHAPTER  IV. 

THE  author's  FIRST  GENERAL  ANSWER, 

Taken  from  his  title-page,  and  word  "  endeavoured.''    Pages  288,  289. 

CHAPTER  V. 
the  second  general  answer. 
That  many,  especially  memory-mistakes,  and  pen*slips,  must  be  expected 
in  a  great  volume.    Page  290. 

CHAPTER  VI. 
the  third  general  answer. 
That  in  entire  stories  of  impregnable  truth,  it  is  facile  for  one  to  cavil  with 
some  colour  at  dismembered  passages  therein.    Page  291. 

CHAPTER  VU. 

THE  FOURTH  GENERAL  ANSWER. 

That  favour,  of  course,  is  indulged  to  the  first  (as  least  perfect)  edition 
of  books.    Pages  292,  293. 

CHAPTER  VIII. 

THE  FIFTH   GENERAL  ANSWER. 

That  it  is  no  shame  for  any  man  to  confess,  (when  convinced  thereof,)  and 
amende  an  error  in  his  judgment.    Pages  293^295. 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


xvlii  CONTENTS  OF  THE 

CHAPTER  IX. 

THE  SIXTH  GENERAL  ANSWER. 

That-  prelal  mislakes^  in  defiance  of  all  care»  will  escape  in  the  best- 
corrected  book.     Pages  295>  296. 

CHAPTER  X. 

THE  SEVENTH  AND  LAST  GENERAL  ANSWER. 

That  an  author^  charging  his  margin  with  his  author^  is  thereby  himself 
discharged.    Pages  296,  297. 

CHAPTER  XL 

That  many  of  the  Animadvertor's  notes  are  only  additional,  not  opposite, 
to  what  I  have  written ;  and  that  all  things  omitted  in  an  history 
are  not  defects.    Pages  297i  298. 

CHAPITER  Xn. 

That  the  author  designed  unto  himself  no  party-pleasing  in  writing  his 
Church-History.     Pages  299>  300. 

CHAPTER  Xni. 

What  good  the  Animadvertor  might,  but  would  not,  do;  and  what 
good,  by  God's  goodness,  he  herein  hath  done  unto  the  author. 
Pages  300,  301. 

CHAPTER  XIV. 

That  the  author  is  unjustly  charged  by  the  Animadvertor  for  being  agree- 
able to  the  times  ;  and  how  far  forth  such  agreeableness  is  consistent 
with  Christian  prudence.     Pages  301 — 305. 

ANSWER  TO  HEYLIlSrS  GENERAL  PREFACE  AND 
NECESSARY  INTRODUCTION. 

Heylin's  Animadversions  on  the  following  topics,  and  Fuller's  Answer  to 
them  :—"  The  Holy  State."  Preface  to  the  "  Church-History."  Titles, 
dedicatory-epistles,  and  intermediate  inscriptions,  heraldry,  blazons  of 
arms,  and  descents  of  noble  families — Battle-abbey  roll — Hereditary 
chamberlain  of  England.  Richard  Plantagenet — Poetry,  old  popish 
legends,  and  merry  tales.  Excursions  about  the  antiquity  of  Cambridge. 
Too  much  of  civil  history,  and  too  little  of  ecclesiastical.  Omission  of 
some  synods  and  convocations,  of  popish  heterodoxies  and  supersti- 
tions, and  of  the  defences  made  by  Bancroft,  Bilson,  &c. — ^The  will 
of  Henry  VHI.  and  the  coronation  of  Charles  I.  Murdering  of  kings. 
Consent  of  the  people.  The  Church  deprived  of  her  authority. 
Wickliffe.  Presbyterianism.  Treaty  at  the  Isle  of  Wight.  Consecra- 
tion of  churches  and  chapels.  Removal  of  archi-episcopal  see  from 
London  to  Canterbury.  Cure  of  the  king*8«evil.  Errata.  Pages 
305—351. 

BOOK   I.— NUMBBBS    1—28. 

Condition  of  the  Britons  before  the  introduction  of  Christianity.  Their 
gods.  Diana.  Derivation  of  London.  The  Druids— The  Roman 
conquest— Metaphrastes.     Fuller,  of   Hammersmith.     Whether  St. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


APPEAL  OF  IKJURfiD  INNOCENCE.  six 

Peter,  or  Joseph  of  Arimathea,  plaated  the  goepel  in  Enghuid. 
Glastonbury-thorn — King  Lucius  and  pope  Eleutherius.  Flamens 
and  arch-flamens.  Geoffrey  of  Monmouth,  Mason  De  Ministerio 
-4«^fo'cfl»o— Amphibalus.  Derivation  of  Lichfield.  Cern,  in  Dorset- 
shire.   Constantius  Chloms.    The  nine  worthies.    Pages  352—383. 


PART  II. 


CONTAINING  ANSWERS  TO   HETLINS   ANIMADTERSIONS  ON   BOOKS 
II. — X.   OP  THE  CHURCH-HISTORT. 

BOOK  n.--NuMBERs  29—59. 
Conversion  of  the  Saxons.  Their  idols,  Woden,  Thar,  &c. — Augustine  the 
reputed  apostle  of  the  English.  Transfer  of  the  archi-episcopal  see 
from  London  to  Canterbury.  Baptism  in  the  river  Swale,  in  York- 
shire. Cross  in  Baptism — Derivation  of  the  Italian,  Spanish,  and 
French  languages.  The  Hebrew  and  the  Welsh  original  languages- 
Difference  between  ''catholic"  and  "Roman  catholic." — Crekelade 
and  Lechlade.  Derivation  of  Durham,  and  of  Tyburn.  Alba.  Cim- 
brica  Chersonesns — Doctors  and  chancellors,  recent  dignitaries — 
Cambridgeshire-men  to  lead  the  van  in  all  battles.  Edward  the 
Confessor.  Origin  of  the  Common  Law — Cure  of  the  king's  evil. 
Form  of  the  service,  with  the  collect — ^Title  of  Harold  to  the  crown  of 
England.    Norman  Conquest.    Pages  384*^416. 

BOOK  HL— NuMBsas  60—78. 

Power  of  the  canon-law  after  the  Norman  Conquest — Submission  of  the 
clergy  to  Henry  VIII.  Their  petition,  and  the  answer  to  it.  Christian 
antiquity  of  St.  David's — St.  Stephen's  chapel,  Westminster.  Geoffrey 
Plantagenet.  King  John's  unchristian  embassage  to  the  king  of 
Morocco — The  town-house  of  the  bishops  of  Rochester,  of  Lincoln, 
and  of  Bangor — Royalists — Magna  Charta,  and  the  prosperity  of 
those  kings  who  were  strict  in  their  observance  of  its  stipulations—^ 
Banishment  of  the  Jews  out  of  Franc'e  and  England — Hugh  Spencer 
earl  of  Winchester,  and  earl  of  Gloucestei>— The  lord  Chancellor  most 
commonly  a  bishop— Institution  of  the  Order  of  the  Garter.  Knights, 
chancellor,  and  register  of  the  order.  The  knights'  habiliments. 
Canons  of  Windsor — Pedigree  of  the  Montague  funily.  Pages 
417—433. 

BOOK  IV.— Numbers  79—100. 
The  doctrines  of  Wickliffe.  False  Report  of  his  reconciliation  to  the 
church  of  Rome.  Marc  Antony  De  Dominis — Chaucer's,  Spencer's, 
and  Drayton's  tombs — ^Roger  Mortimer,  earl  of  March— Bishops  are 
barons  and  peers  of  the  realm.  Whether  the  king,  the  parliament,  or 
the  clergy  directed  the  proceedings  of  the  ecclesiastical  court  in  cases 
of  heresy.  Henry  VII.  bom  at  Pembroke.  His  son  broke  down  the 
partition-wall  between  England  and  Wales— Fuller's  residence  at 
Oxford  while  Charles  I.  held  his  court  there— Charles  V.  Aux  in 
Guienne.    Johannes  de  Voragine  a  good  author — Earls  of  Cambridge 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


XX  CONTENTS  OF  THE 

— Fuller's  power  of  memory.  Wickham  and  Wainefleet  Kinf^'e 
College^  Cambridge — Richard  Neville^  earl  of  Warwick,  contrasted 
vriih  Henry  of  Bolingbroke,  duke  of  Lancaster  and  Hereford — ^The 
doctrine  of  murdering  deposed  and  captive  princes,  repudiated  by 
Fuller— Sir  William  Stanley  at  the  battle  of  Bosworth-field.  Pages 
434 — 454. 

BOOK  v.— Numbers  101—124. 

Dr.  Newlen — Lilly's  Grammar  enjoined  by  Henry  VIII.  to  be  used  in  all 
grammar-schools.  The  scholarship  of  Henry  VIII. — ^Whitehall.  Car- 
dinal Wolsey.  Christ-College,  Oxford — Margaret  duchess  of  Alen^on 
— ^Wolsey  holds  the  archbishopric  of  York  in  commendam  with  the 
rich  bishopric  of  Winchester  till  his  death — ^The  puritan  party  will 
not  grant  that  queen  Elizabeth  perfected  the  Reformation — Marriage 
of  Henry  VIII.  with  Anne  Boleyn— The  doctrines  held  by  WickliflTe, 
the  ore  of  Protestantism — Suppression  of  the  stews  in  London—- Henry 
Fitzroy,  natural  son  of  Henry  VIII. — ^The  authority  of  the  church,  and 
whether  its  proceedings  are  subject  to  the  power  of  parliaments. 
Statute  of  premunire.  Submission  of  the  clergy  to  Henry  VIII. 
Subsidy  of  the  clergy  to  queen  Elizabeth — ^Dr.  Pilkington,  bishop  of 
Durham,  and  queen  Elizabeth.    Pages  454 — 470. 

BOOK  VI.— Numbers  126—134. 

Cistercian  monks  from  Cisteauz — St.  George  of  Cappadocia — ^The  Domini- 
cans and  the  Jesuits,  the  rigid  Lutherans  and  the  Melanchthonians, 
the  peremptory  Calvinists  and  the  Remonstrants,  severally  at  issue 
with  each  other  on  the  points  of  predestination,  free-will,  &c. — ^Abbeys 
consumed  by  lightning — ^The  northern  rebellion  under  Aske  and  lord 
Darcy,  on  account  of  the  suppression  of  monasteries — ^Foundation 
of  six  bishoprics — Comparison  between  the  monks  and  nuns,  thrust 
out  of  house  and  home,  and  the  sequestered  protestant  clergy  of  the 
English  church.  The  fifth  part  of  each  benefice  allowed  to  each  of  the 
sequestered  clergy,  but  scarcely  ever  obtained — ^Westminster  church 
is  changed  by  queen  Mary  from  a  late-made  cathedral  to  an  abbey — 
Statute  for  the  suppression*  of  religious  Orders— Tlie  Oratorians  the 
latest  of  all  the  Orders  in  the  Romish  Church.    Pages  476—485. 

BOOK  VII.— NuMBBES  136—142. 

The  injunctions  of  Edward  VI.  respecting  labouring  in  the  time  of  harvest, 
on  holy  days,  and  Sundays — First  edition  of  the  Liturgy — Noncon- 
formists— Sternhold  and  Hopkins's  metrical  translation  of  the  Psalms, 
allowed  by  authority,  in  most  parish-churches  thrust  out  the  Te  Deum, 
Benedictus,  Magnificat,  and  Nunc  dimittia — Examples  to  deter  subjects 
from  marrying  the  widows  of  their  sovereigns — ^The  origin  of  king 
Edward's  forty-^ix  articles  of  religion  and  catechism.    Pages  485 — 191. 

BOOK  VIII.— Numbers  143—150. 

Loyalty  of  the  commons  on  queen  Mary's  accession.  Statute  of  succession 
—The  convocation  commonly  reputed  a  part  of  parliament — Aristotle's 
opinion  respecting  the  fittest  age  for  marriage— The  protestant  exiles 
at  Frankfort  omit  some  ceremonies  in  the  public  service  and  in  the 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ IC 


APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  xxi 

adminiBtration  of  the  sacraments — Dr.  Wright,  hishop  of  Lichfield, 
and  Dr.  Skinner,  bishop  of  Oxford,  both  of  Trinity  College  in  Oxford. 
The  famous  John  Selden  and  William  ChQlingworth  also  members 
of  that  College.  Dr.  Francis  Cheynel— The  loss  of  Calais.  Pages 
491—496. 

BOOK  IX.— Numbers  151—193. 

Non-permission  of  idolatry.  Some  members  of  the  Romish  chnrch  idola- 
ters. Idolatry  to  be  suppressed  only  by  a  lawful  authority.  The 
conduct  of  the  citizens  of  Geneva,  and  the  protestauts  in  the  Low 
Countries,  respecting  the  extirpation  of  popish  images — ^Activity 
of  the  parliament  1  Elizabeth — ^The  spire  of  St.  Paul's  steeple  consumed 
by  fire,  and  repaired  by  the  citizens  of  London — Reason  why  arch- 
bishop Cranmer's  children  were  by  act  of  parliament  restored  in  blood 
— Composition  of  the  thirty-nine  articles  of  religion*  Christ's  local 
descent  into  hell  maintained  by  the  English  church.  Concerning  the 
power  of  the  church  "  to  decree  rites  and  ceremonies  and  authority  in 
controversies  of  the  faith,"  contained  in  the  twentieth  article,  as 
published  in  1563,  which  clause  was  retained  by  archbishop  Laud, 
but  left  out  in  the  puritanic  editions  of  1571  and  1612— Enactments 
of  13  Elizabeth  respecting  the  articles — Character  of  the  homilies — 
Origin  of  the  name  of  puritans — Covetous  conformists — Ministerial 
prophesyings  patronized  by  archbishop  Grindal :  king  James's  opinion 
concerning  them — Two  acts  of  parliament  23  Elizabeth  against  the 
papists  and  puritans — ^The  court  of  Marches — Death  of  archbishop 
Grindal — Subscription  to  certain  articles  enforced — ^The  oath  ex  officio 
and  the  High-Commission  court  censured — Scurrilous  pamphlets 
of  Throgmorton,  Penry,  and  Fenner — How  far  an  author  is  account^ 
able  for  those  whom  he  quotes — ^The  vileness  of  Racket — ^The 
presbyterian  ojrdination  of  Travers,  condemned  by  Heylin,  allowed  by 
Fuller — ^The  Sabbatarian  controversy.  Origin  of  the  Lambeth  articles 
on  predestination,  grace,  &c.  Calvinism  imported  into  England  by 
some  of  the  EngUsh  protestant  exiles  in  the  reign  of  queen  Mary. 
Dr.  Peter  Baro.  Dr.  Whitaker — ^The  polemic  productions  of  Bilson, 
Cosin,  Bancroft,  and  Hooker.  The  execution  of  Copping,  Thacker, 
Barrow,  Greenwood,  and  Penry.  Imprisonment  of  Udal,  Billot,  Stud- 
ley,  and  Bouler.  Stillness  of  the  nonconformists — Abbot  Feckenham's 
message  to  queen  Elizabeth*    Pages  497*526. 

BOOK  X.— NuMBBBS  194—221. 
Watson's  silly  treason.  Sir  Griffith  Markham  one  of  his  accomplices.  An 
inquiry  concerning  the  other  conspirators.  The  millenary  petition — 
Bishop  Barlow's  publication  of  the  Hampton-Court  conference.  Dr. 
King,  bishop  of  London — Statute  to  prevent  final  alienation  of  church, 
land — ^The  remissness  of  some  prelates  in  promoting  the  erection 
of  Chelsea  college — Enumeration  of  some  famous  men  of  the  name 
of  Fuller — The  earl  of  Dunbar's  mode  of  becoming  possessed  of 
Norham-castle— The  Genevian  notes  to  the  Bible  condemned  by  king 
James,  as  partial,  untrue,  seditious,  &c.  Specimens  of  them — Bishop 
Harsnet's  sermon  at  court  in  1609,  on  *'  Render  to  Caesar,"  &c. — 
Bishop  Neile's  speech  in  the  house  of  lords — Selden's  book  on  tithes. 
Its  effects  rendered  nugatory.    Answers  to  it.    Copy  of   Selden's 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ  l€ 


»Ui  CONTENTS  OF  THE 

submission  and  acknowledgment  before  the  Higb-Commission  court 
—Description  of  Dr.  Mocket's  collection  of  Latin  treatises  on  tbe 
doctrines  and  discipline  of  the  cburch  of  England.  He  omits  tbe  first 
clause  of  the  twentieth  article  of  the  church.  His  book  condemned  to 
be  burnt— Description  of  the  Remonstrants  and  Contrau-Remonstrants 
in  the  Low  Countries— The  discipline  of  the  church  of  England 
virtually  coodemned  by  the  Synod  of  Dort— Dr.  Williams  promoted 
to  the  office  of  I/ord  Chancellor.  This  office  in  former  ages  occupied 
by  the  dignitaries  of  the  church— Marc  Antony  De  Dominis,  arch- 
bishop of  Spalato.  His  extreme  cupidity.  He  is  seduced  by  the 
Romish  party,  and  ruined— The  Spanish  match  opposed  by  the 
puritans.  Reasons  alleged  by  Heylin  as  the  grounds  of  this  opposi- 
tion.    Pages  526—552. 


PART  III. 

CONTAINING    FULLER's   ANSWER   TO    HEYLIN's  ANIMADVERSIONS  ON 
BOOK  XI.   OP  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY  OF  BRITAIN. 

BOOK  XI.— NuMBBRS  222—337. 

The  funeral  of  king  James— Remarks  on  Dr.  Preston,  and  his  brief  con- 
nexion with  the  duke  of  Buckingham— King  Charles's  marriage  with 
Henrietta  Maria  of  France.  Provision  for  her  popish  chaplains — 
Coronation  of  king  Charles  :  bishop  Williams  not  present  on  that 
occasion.  The  precedence  of  various  officers  of  state.  The  consent 
or  good-liking  of  the  people  asked  at  the  coronation.  Protestation 
of  several  noblemen  to  spill  their  blood  in  defence  of  the  crown; 
forgotten  by  many  of  them  in  the  subsequent  civil  war— Contrast 
between  bishop  Andrews  and  archbishop  Laud  in  regard  to  cerenao- 
nies — Commission  for  suspending  archbishop  Abbot  from  the  exercise 
of  his  official  duties.  The  legislative  authority  of  foreign  councils  not 
binding  on  Englishmen.  Drs.  Williams,  Carew,  and  Laud  refuse 
to  receive  episcopal  consecration  from  archbishop  Abbot,  who  was 
afterwards  received  into  favour  at  court — Account  of  the  association 
of  feofifees  for  the  purchase  of  impropriations.  The  abuses  of  the 
system,  and  its  suppression — *'  Declaration  about  Sports  "  ordered  by 
authority  to  be  read  in  every  parish-church.  The  two  Judges  of 
Assize  for  the  western  circtiit  make  a  severe  order  for  the  suppression 
of  wakes  and  revels  in  the  county  of  Somerset,  enjoining  the  constables 
to  deliver  a  copy  to  the  minister  of  every  parish,  who  was  to  read 
it  in  the  church  every  year.  This  abuse  of  the  Lord's-day  generally 
reputed  a  principal  cause  of  God's  anger  poured  out  on  the  nation 
during  the  civil  war— Disputes  concerning  the  position  of  the  commu- 
nion-table. Fuller  to  be  appointed  moderator  in  this  disputation — 
Excellent  character  of  bishop  Juxon.  Deering's  character  of  arch- 
bishop Laud— Critique  on  Prynne's  early  writings.  His  moderation 
towards  the  close  of  life— Archbishop  Williams's  conduct  and  imprison- 
ment. Motion  for  his  degradation.  Circumstances  attending  the 
degradation  of  Dr.  Marmaduke   Middlcton,  bishop  of  St.  David's. 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  nUI 

CoDdact  of  Mr.  Osbaldeston— The  mtrodaction  of  the  Litargy  the 
evident  cause  of  the  troubles  in  Scotland.    Metaphysical  distribution 
of  causes.    The  refusal  of  a  barony  to  Leslie  one  of  the  chief  causes  of 
the  Scotch  insurrection.    Archbishop  Laud  and  Dr.  Cosin  generally 
but  improperly  blamed  by  the  Scots  on  this  account.    The  whole 
transaction  had  the  approval  and  co-operation  of  the  Scotch  bishops. 
The  ease  with  which,  by  God's  blessing,  the  Scotch  rebellion  might 
have  been  at  first  suppressed.    No  assurance-office  for  the  success 
of  battleS'A  conrocation  of  the  clergy  called   in    1640:    Fuller 
appointed  one  of  the  clerks.    His  meekness  under  the  reproaches  of 
Heylin.    The  sittings  of  the  convocation  prolonged  by  the  king*s 
commission,  durante  ben^lacito.    Drs.  Brownrigg,  Hacket,  and  others 
protested  against  the  further  continuance  of  the  convocation.    The 
number  of  its  members.    An  old  convocation  converted  ijnto  a  new 
synod.     The  remarks  of  lord  George  Digby  and  sir  £dward  Deering. 
Synods  and  convocations  nearly  sjmonymous.    A  committee  appointed 
to  deliberate  about  a  canon  for  uniformity  in  rites  and  ceremonies. 
The  taking  of  the  et  cetera  oath  much  pressed,  even  before  the  proper 
time,  by  some  bishops.    Mr.  Maynard's  speech  against  the  canons. 
Act    of    51    Edward    III. — The    power   of   the    High-Commission 
court  and  of  the  bishops'  courts  destroyed — Drs.  Pocklington  and 
Bray  the  first  who  felt  the  displeasure  of  the  Long  Parliament,  at  the 
instigation  of  bishop  Williams — Impeachment  and  imprisonment  of 
Dr.  Wren — ^A  Protestation  ordered  to  be  generally  taken  throughout 
the  kingdom — Lord  Brooke's  book  against  bishops,  in  respect  of  their 
low  parentage  and  unsuitable  studies — ^The  Protestation  subscribed  by 
twelve  of  the  bishops,  who  are  impeached  of  high- treason,  and  com- 
mitted   to    the    Tower — ^The    earl    of   Bath — Origin  of   the  words 
''Malignant"   and   "Roundhead" — Bishop  Wren  detained    in   the 
Tower  after  the  release  of  his  episcopal  brethren — Conduct  of  arch- 
bishop Williams — ^The  English  bishops  have  their  vote  in  parliament 
as  "  a  third  estate ; "  and  not  as  temporal  barons — Some  objections  to 
their  " third- estateship "—The  calling  together  of  the  "assembly  of 
divines"  not  to  be  ascribed  to  the  vacation  of  the  convocation — 
Fanciful  mode  of  condemning  the  ''solemn  league  and  covenant" 
—White's  "  First  Century  " — Fuller's  vindication  of  his  own  integrity 
in  his  account  of  the  episcopal  clergy — ^The  principal  Independents  did 
not  leave  England  on  account  of  debt,  but  from  truly  conscientious 
motives — Christopher  Love's  intemperate  conduct  at  the  treaty  at 
Uxbridge — Commendation  of  archbishop  Laud's  "  Diary."    Prynne's 
baseness  in  his  extracts  from  it,  and  innuendoes  concerning  them. 
Refutation  of  Laud's  inclination  to  popery.    Two  anecdotes  on  the 
subject.     His  endeavours  to  promote  concord  among  Christians.    The 
Jesuits  and  puritans  hindered  this  proposed  concord.    The  efforts  of 
the  archbishop  of  Spalato  and  Franciscus  de  Sanct&  Clar&.    Arch- 
bishop Laud's  defects  and  excellencies  enumerated  by  Fuller — ^The 
attachment  of   the  English  nation  to  the  Liturgy  not    eradicated 
by  ordinances   of  parliament.     Even  Stephen  Marshall  wished  his 
daughter  to  be  married  according  to  the  form  prescribed  in  the 
"  Common  Prayer-Book,"  and  instantly  paid  down  five  pounds,  the 
fine  imposed  for  using  any  other  form  than  that  of  the  "  Directory." 
A  similar  fine  paid  by  Mr.  Knightly  of  Fawsley — Delegates  from  the 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


xxir         CONTENTS  OF  THE  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE. 

University  of  Oxford  plead  their  privileges  in  vain  before  parliament, 
as  well  as  a  salvo  in  one  of  the  articles  concerning  the  surrendry  of 
that  city — Proceedings  of  the  parliamentary  visitors  at  Cambridge. 
Oath  of  discovery  obtruded  on  several  persons  in  that  University. 
This  fact  affirmed  by  Dr.  Peter  Ganning,  upon  whom  such  an  oath 
was  urged;  but  denied  by  Mr.  Simeon  Ashe,  one  of  the  earl  of 
Manchester's  chaplains — Plunder  of  the  treasury  of  Magdalen-CoUege, 
Oxford.  Bishop  Wainefleet  and  Dr.  Humphrey— Plunder  of  valuable 
timber  belonging  to  Clare-Hall,  Cambridge.  Restitution  of  the  stolen 
property — ^Archbishop  Williams's  inclinations  towards  the  parliament, 
and  his  subsequent  active  exertions  in  aid  of  that  party.  His  chaste- 
ness.  His  acts  of  benevolence  especially  to  young  students  in  both 
the  Universities.  Explanation  of  the  expenses  incurred  in  the  repair 
.  of  Westminster  abbey.  His  views  respecting  popery,  and  his  favour 
"  to  some  select  persons  "  of  that  opinion.  The  degree  of  esteem  in 
which  he  held  the  English  Liturgy.  Translations  of  it  into  foreign 
languages.    His  antipathy  to  king  Charles.    Pages  553 — 660. 

APPENDIX  TO  HEYLIN'S  ANIMADVERSIONS. 

CONTAINING    THE    APOLOGY   OP    DR.  JOHN    COSIN,   IN  ANSWER  TO  SOME 
PASSAGES   IN   fuller's   CHURCH-HISTORT. 

Heylin's  Introduction — Extract  from  the  Church-History  concerning  Dr. 
Cosin — Dr.  Cosin's  "  Answer."  Account  of  prebendary  Smart,  and 
of  the  proceedings  of  the  High-Conmiission  court  against  him.  His 
contumacy.  His  bill  of  complaint  preferred  to  the  House  of  Com- 
mons, containing  charges  against  Dr.  Cosin,  who  answers  them 
seriatim  before  the  House  of  Lords,  in  such  a  satisfactory  manner, 
that  he  was  released  from  all  further  attendance  on  them  in  reference 
to  this  matter.  A  summary  of  his  answers  to  the  various  charges  of 
Smart,  who,  by  the  artful  misrepresentations  of  his  sufferings  as  a 
suspended  and  silenced  preacher,  obtained  large  contributions  and 
a  handsome  maintenance  from,  those  who  disliked  episcopacy.  Though 
Smart  demanded  many  thousand  pounds,  the  parliament  gave  him 
none,  nor  ordered  Dr.  Cosin  or  any  of  those  whom  he  had  accused 
to  make  him  retribution.  Dr.  Cosin's  declaration  respecting  his 
intimacy  with  the  French  presbyterians  at  Charenton ;  the  interchange 
of  civilities  between  them,  the  English  episcopal  clergy  and  laity 
frequenting  their  church,  and,  in  return,  they  came  to  the  episcopal 
church.  Dr.  Cosin  has  been  "  to  pray  and  sing  psalms  with  them, 
and  to  hear  both  the  weekly  and  the  Sunday  sermons  at  Charenton." 
Daill^'s  character  of  Dr.  Cosin.  Fuller's  Apologetical  Letter  to  him, 
and  his  promised  account  of  the  highly  venerated  bishop  of  Durham 
— Fuller's  epistle  to  the  reader— To  his  loving  friend.  Dr.  Peter 
Heylin — Notices  by  the  Editor  concerning  Dr.  Cornelius  Burgess, 
and  Fuller's  Letter  to  him.     Pages  661—685. 

Dbscrtption  of  thb  Plates.    Pages  686^688. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


oU   l\'^i:. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


^     ^     ^     i^    ^ 

»  iji  if 
^ .  * .  * .  ^  ^ 


7    \ 


^ 


10 


1  ^ 

5 

F 

\>'''  -' 

\  % 

) 

^-Ul 

'^ 

U 

'^/\t 


Digitized  by 


f;..t]i\  ' 


Google 


TO    THE    HONOUHABLE  -' 

BANISTER  MAYNARD,  ESQUIRE/ 

SON  AND  HEIR  TO  THE 

RIGHT  HONOURABLE  WILLIAM  LORD  MAYNARD, 

BARON  OF  ESTAYNES  IN  ENGLAND,  AND 
.     WICKLOW-IN  IRELAND. 


There  is  a  late  generation  of  people,  profeased  ene- 
niiei  to  ail  human  learning;  the  most  moderate 
amongst  them  accounting  it,  as  used  in  Divinity,  no 
better  tJiaiDL  the  barren  fig-tree : — "  Cut  it  down,  why 
cumbereth  it  the  ground?"  Luke  xiii.  7;  whilst  the 
more  furious  resemble  it  to  the  wild  gourd  in  the  pot- 
tage of  the  children  of  the  prophets,  deadly  and  perni- 
cious, 2  Kings  iv.  40.  Thus  as  "  Wisdom  builded  her 
an  house"  with  "seven  pillars,"  Proverbs  ix.  1,  gene- 
rally expounded  "the  liberal  sciences,"  Folly  seeketh 
(but  1  hope  in  vain)  to  pluck  down  and  destroy  it. 

The  staple  place  whereon  their  ignorance  or  malice, 
or  both,  groundeth  their  error,  is  on  the  words  of  the 
apostle :  "  Beware  lest  any  man  should  spoil  you 
through  philosophy  and  vain  deceit,"  Col.  ii.  8 ;  or, 
which  is  the  same  in  effect,  vain  and  deceitful  philo- 
sophy. 

Which  words,  seriously  considered,  neither  express 
nor  imply  any  prohibition  of  true  philosophy,  but  rather 
tacitly  commend  it.  Thus,  when  our  Saviour  saith', 
"Beware  of  false  prophets,"  Matt.  vii.  15,  by  way  pf 
opposition,  he  inviteth  them  to  believe  and  respect 
such  as  are  true  ones.  *  * 

*  CaUed  by  oTur  antiqnaiianB,  **  Banaitre  Maynard,  of  Estaines  and  Tvancim,  in  Essex." 
—Edit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


DEDICATION. 


*  Indeed, "if -^e  .consult  the  word  in  the  notation 
tllJ^reof;;^  cpfis^tfug  of  (piA»,  "  to  love,"  and  «ro(p/a,  "  wis- 
dom^" nothing  can  be  cavilled  thereat;  the  child  of 
80  good  parents  cannot  be  bad :  and  the  compound 
resulting  thence,  namely,  philosophy,  or  "  the  love  of 
wisdom,"  is  the  same  so  commended  by  Solomon: 
"  Whoso  loveth  wisdom,  rejoiceth  his  father,"  Prov. 
xxix.  3.  ^ 

True  philosophy,  thus  considered  in  itself,  is,  as 
Clemens  Alexandrinus  termeth  it,  ceterrue  veritatis 
sparagmon,  "  a  spark  or  splinter  of  Divine  truth ; "  res 
Dei  ratio,  saith  TertuUian;  God  himself  being,  in  a 
sort,  the  great-grandfather  of  every  Philosophy-Act. 

But,  we  confess,  there  is  a  great  abuse  of  philosophy, 
making  it  vain  and  deceitful,  (according  to  the  apostle's 
just  complaint,)  when  it  presumeth  by  the  principles 
of  reason  to  cross  and  control  the  articles  of  faith: 
then,  indeed,  it  becometh  xevij,  "vain  or  empty,"  as 
wherein  nulla  impletio,  et  multa  inJkUio,  "  nothing  to  fill 
man's  mind,  though  too  much  to  pufF  it  up  ; "  which  is 
true  both  of  philosophy  in  general,  and  of  all  the  parts 
thereof. 

Thus  Logic,  in  itself,  is  of  absolute  necessity,  without 
which  St.  Paul  could  never  have  disputed  "two  years  " 
(no,  nor  two  hours)  "  in  the  school  of  Tyrannus,"  Acts 
xix.  9.  So  highly  did  the  apostle  prize  it,  that  he 
desired  to  be  freed  airo  t&v  arowwir,  "  from  men  who  have 
no  topics," — from  absurd  men  who  will  fix  in  no  place 
to  be  convinced  with  reason.  But  Logic,  thus  useful, 
may  be  abused  and  made  deceitful,  either  in  doubtful 
disputations,  where  the  questions  can  never  be  deter- 
mined, or  in  "  perverse  disputings  of  men,"  1  Timothy 
vi.  5,  where  the  disputants  are  so  humorous  and 
peevish,  that  they  are  unwilling  to  understand  each 
other ;  making  wrangling,  not  satisfaction,  the  end  of 
their  dispute. 

Ethics,  in  like  manner,  are  of  special  use  in  Divinity ; 
though  not  to   be  believed  where  they  cross  Chris- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


DEDICATION.  3 

tianity;  namely,  where  they  exclude  humility  from 
being  a  virtue,  (on  the  erroneous  account,  that  it  is 
destructive  to  magnanimity,)  which  is  the  Christian's 
lively;  ("Be  ye  clothed  with  humility,  1  Peter  v.  5  ;) 
and  the  third  part  of  all  which  God,  in  this  world, 
enjoineth  us  to  perform,  Micah  vi.  8. 

Natural  Philosophy  must  not  be  forgotten,  singularly 
useful  in  Divinity,  save  when  it  presumes  to  control 
the  articles  of  our  Creed.  It  is  one  of  the  four  things 
for  which  the  earth  is  moved  :  "  A  servant  when  he 
reigneth,"  Proverbs  xxx.  22 ;  and  intolerable  is  the 
pride  of  Natural  Philosophy,  which  should  "hand- 
maid" it  to  Divinity,  when  once  oflFering  to  rule 
over  it 

Your  Honour's  worthy  grandfather,  William  Lord 
Maynard,  well  knew  the  great  conveniency,  yea,  neces- 
sity, of  Logic  for  divines,  when  he  founded  and  plenti- 
fully endowed  a  Professor's  place  in  the  University  of 
Cambridge  for  the  reading  thereof; — of  Cambridge, 
which  I  hope  ere  long  you  will  grace  with  your  pre- 
sence, who  in  due  time  may  become  a  student  and 
good  proficient  therein ;  learning  being  no  more  preju- 
dicial to  a  person  of  honour,  than  moderate  ballast  to 
the  safe  sailing  of  a  ship.  Till  which  time,  and  ever 
after,  the  continuance  and  increase  of  all  happiness  to 
you  and  your  relations,  is  the  daily  prayer  of 

Your  Honour's  humble  servant, 
THOMAS  FULLER. 


B  2 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


PREFACE. 


Although  the  foundation  of  this  University  was 
far  ancienter  [than  the  Conquest],  yet  because  what 
before  this  time  is  reported  of  it  is  both  little  and 
doubtful,  and  already  inserted  into  the  body  of  our 
Ecclesiastical  History ;  it  is  early  enough  to  begin  the 
certain  History  thereof.  Far  be  it  from  me  to  make 
odious  comparisons  between  Jachin  and  Boaz,  the  two 
pillars  in  Solomon's  Temple,  1  Kings  vii.  21  ;  by  pre- 
ferring either  of  them  for  beauty  and  strength,  when 
both  of  them  are  equally  admirable.  Nor  shall  I 
make  difference  betwixt  the  sisters,  (coheirs  of  learning 
and  religion,)  which  should  be  the  eldest.  In  the  days 
of  king  Henry  VI.*  such  was  the  quality  of  desert 
betwixt  Humphrey  StaflFord  duke  of  Buckingham,  and 
Henry  Beauchamp  duke  of  Warwick,  that,  to  prevent 
exceptions  about  priority,  it  was  ordered  by  the  Parlia- 
ment, that  they  should  take  precedency  by  turns,  one 
one  year,  and  the  other  the  next  year;  and  so  by 
course  were  to  chequer  or  exchange  their  going  or 
setting  all  the  years  of  their  life.  Sure  I  am,  there 
needeth  no  such  pains  to  be  taken,  or  provision  to  be 
made,  about  the  pre-eminence  of  our  English  Univer- 
sities, to  regulate  their  places;  they  having  better 
learned  humility  from  the  precept  of  the  apostle  :  "  In 
honour  preferring  one  another,"  Rom.  xii.  10.  Where- 
fore I  presume  my  aunt  Oxford  will  not  be  justly 
offended,  if  in  this  book  I  give  my  own  mother  the 
upper  hand,  and  first  begin  with  her  History.  Thus, 
desiring  God  to  pour  his  blessing  on  both,  that  neither 
may  want  milk  for  their  children,  or  children  for  their 
milk,  we  proceed  to  the  business. 
*  Ex  bundello  Petitionutn  Parliamenti  anno  23,  Henrici  VI.  num.  12. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


THE   HISTORY 


OF 


THE  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE, 

SINCE  THE  CONQUEST. 


SECTION  I. 

1.  The  law  Condition  of  Cambridge  at  the  Conquest.   1  William 
the  Conqueror.     A.D.  1066. 

At  this  time  the  fountain  of  learning  in  Cambridge  was  but 
little,  and  that  very  troubled.  For  of  late  the  Danes  (who  at  first, 
like  an  intermitting  ague,  made  but  inroads  into  the  kingdom,  but 
afterwards  turned  to  a  quotidian  of  constant  habitation)  had  harassed 
all  this  country,  and  hereabouts  kept  their  station.  Mars  then 
frighted  away  the  Muses,  when  the  Mount  of  Parnassus  was  turned 
into  a  fort,  and  Helicon  derived  into  a  trench.  And  at  this  present, 
king  William  the  Conqueror,  going  to  subdue  the  monks  of  Ely 
that  resisted  him,  made  Cambridgeshire  the  seat  of  war. 

2.  Cambridge  Castle  buik  bg  King  William.    A.D.  1070. 

For,  to  the  town  of  Cambridge  he  retired;  and  there  for  a 
season  reposed  himself,  half  dead  with  sorrow,  that  his  design  against 
the  aforesaid  monks  took  no  efiect.  At  what  time  he  found  in  the 
town  three  hundred  and  eighty-seven  dwelling  houses;  eighteen 
whereof  he  caused  then  to  be  plucked  down,*  to  make  room  for  the 
erecting  of  a  Castle,  which  he  there  re-edified,  that  it  might  be  a 
check-bit  to  curb  this  country,  which  otherwise  was  so  hard-mouthed 
to  be  ruled.  This  Castle,  here  built  by  him,  was  strong  for  situa- 
tion, stately  for  structure,  large  for  extent,  and  pleasant  for  prospect ; 
haying  in  it,  amongst  other  rooms,  a  most  magnificent  Hall ;  the 
stones  and  timber  whereof  were  afterwards  begged  by  the  Master 
and  Fellows  of  King's  Hall,f  of  king  Henry  IV.  towards  the 
building  of  their  chapel.     At  this  day  the  Castle  may  seem  to  have 

*  Camdsn's  BrUamUa  in  Cambridgeshire.  t  Caius,  HUtoria  Cant,  Acad.  lib.  ii. 

page  117. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


6  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.  d.  1092. 

run  out  of  the  gate-house,  which  only  is  standing  and  employed  for 
a  prison  :  so  that  what  was  first  intended  to  restrain  rebels  without 
it,  is  now  only  used  to  confine  felons  within  it.  There  is  still 
extant  also  an  artificial  high  hill  deeply  intrenched  about,  steep  in 
the  ascent,  but  level  at  the  top,  which  endureth  still  in  defiance  of 
the  teeth  of  time ;  as  the  most  greedy  glutton  must  leave  those 
bones  (not  for  manners,  but  necessity)  which  are  too  hard  for  him 
to  devour.  King  William  had  scarce  finished  this  Castle,  when  it 
was  first  handselled  with  the  submission  of  the  abbot  of  Ely,  who 
came  hither  to  bewail  his  errors,  and  beseech  the  king'^s  mercy,* 
having  formerly  paid  seven  hundred  marks  to  preserve  the  life  and 
liberty  of  himself  and  his  convent.  Besides,  when  that  money 
«ame  to  be  paid,  and  one  groat  thereof  was  found  wanting  in 
weight,  a  new  sum  was  extorted  from  him  for  breach*  of  covenants ;  -|- 
to  teach  them  who  are  to  deal  with  potent  creditors,  to  weigh  right, 
lest  otherwise  they  approve  themselves  penny  wise,  and  pound 
foolish. 

3,  4.  Henry  Beauderk  bred  in  Cambridffe;  probably  a  Benefactor 
to  the  University,    A.I).  1080. 

Now,  though  these  martial  impressions  did  much  discompose  the 
studies  of  scholars  in  Cambridge,  under  William  the  Conqueror ; 
who,  being  a  military  man,  by  his  very  constitution  was  not  over- 
fond  of  learning ;  yet  even  in  these  days  the  place  was  not  totally 
abandoned  of  scholars.  Yea,  Cambridge  was  in  some  reputation 
and  eminence  for  literature.  For  Henry,  youngest  son  to  king 
William,  was  here  brought  up  in  the  study  of  arts  and  sciences  ;  J 
and  afterwards  he  travelled  beyond  the  seas;  being  at  Paris, 
some  say,  (though  improbable,)  when  news  was  brought  of  the 
death  of  his  brother  king  William  Rufus  :  so  that  both  home-bred 
and  foreign  learning  met  in  him,  to  deserve  the  surname  of  Beau- 
CLEBK.  His  father  is  reported  to  have  designed  him  for  a  bishop  ; 
as  Maud,  wife  to  this  Henry,  is  said  by  her  parents  to  have  been 
intended  for  a  nun ;  and  these  two,  marrying  together,  were  the 
most  learned  couple  in  that  age. 

Some  say,§  that  this  Henry,  afterwards  king  of  England,  in 
gratitude  to  Cambridge  for  his  education,  endowed  Readers  of 
several  languages  therein,  alleging  Leland's  verses,  as  alluding 
thereunto :— • 

Qttid  qudd  Oranta  novem  dicata  Mum, 

Henrici  pietate  literati 

Tertis  prcenitet  erudita  Linffui*, 

•  Caius,  Hietoria  Cant,  Acad.  lib.  ii.  page  117.  t  Speed  in  the  Life  of  king 

Wimam  the  Conqueror.  1  Thomas    Rudborn,  Leland,  Fabian,  Bale,  and 

PiTZAUS,  page  203.  §  Caius,  De  Antiquitate  Cantab,  Acad,  page  97. 


Digiti 


zedbyLiOOgle 


5  wiLLiAU  II.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDOB.  7 

**  Caiii1nidge>  detoted  to  the  Hum  nine^ 
By  learned  Henrj's  piety  doth  thine 
With  learned  men,  wibich.  langoagee  refine." 

But  we  will  not  wrest  tbe  words  bejond  the  intent  of  the  poet,  who 
herein  seems  to  relate  to  the  Hebrew  and  Greek  Professors  founded 
in  his  days  at  Cambridge  by  king  Henry  VIII.  whom  we  may  call 
Beauclerk  junior,  though  short  as  in  time,  so  in  learning,  of  the 
former.  Thus  though  for  the  present  we  will  not  build  tbe  bounty 
of  this  king  Henry  to  Cambridge  on  a  false  bottom,  yet  certainly 
he  was  a  duti&l  son  to  his  mother,  from  whom  he  bad  his  breeding, 
and  not  forgetting  her  favour  unto  him. 

5.  Mischievous  Montgomery.    1  William  II.    A.D,  1088. 

Not  long  after,  Roger  of  Montgomery  most  mischievously  with 
fire  and  sword  destroyed  the  town  and  county  of  Cambridge,  spoil* 
ing  the  poor  subjects,  so  to  be  revenged  of  their  sovereign,  king 
William  Ruftis ;  insomuch  as,  for  a  time,  the  University  was  wholly 
abandoned. 

6.  Ficofs  Foundation  in  St.  Giles's  Farish.    A.D.  1092. 

Hugolina,  a  worthy  woman,  and  wife  to  Picot  baron  of  Bume^ 

[Bourn,]  and  sHbriff  of  Cambridgeshire,  recovered  at  Cambridge 

of  a  desperate  sickness ;  whereof,  in  gratitude,  according  to  the 

devout  mode  of  those  days,  she  built  a  church  there,  dedicating  it 

to  God  and  St.  Giles,  and  placed  six  canons  therein.     Yea,  she 

prevailed  so  far  with  her  husband,  that  he  endowed  this  her  church 

with  half  the  tithes  of  his  demesnes  in  his  manors  of,  1.  Qui, 

2rStow,  3.  Water-Beach,  4.  Middleton,  5.  Histon,  6.  Impington, 

7.  Girton,    8.  Oakington,    9.  Hampton,     10.  Cottenham,     11. 

Lolworth,    12.  Trumpington,     13.   Haslingfield,     14.  Harleton, 

15.  Eversden,  16.  Toft,  17-  Caldecote,  18.  Kingston,  19.  Wim- 

pole,    20.  Gransden,    21.  Hatley,   22.  Pampisford,  23.  Alewind. 

But,  soon  after,  these  tithes  were  but  poorly  paid ;  namely,  when 

Robert  Picot,^is  son,  forfeited  his  barony,  which  king  Henry  I. 

bestowed  upon  Pagan  [Pain]  Peverel. 

7.  The  injuriom  Original  of  Impropriations. 
See  we  here  a  grand  difference  betwixt  the  endowments  of  monas- 
teries before  and  after  the  Conquest.  The  Saxons  generally  endowed 
them  with  solid  and  substantial  revenues  out  of  their  own  estates, 
giving  good  farms  and  manors  unto  them :  (or  if  any  tithes,  only 
those  within  the  circuit  of  that  parish  wherein  that  convent  was 
erected;  the  secular  priests,  and  afterwards  the  monks  therein,, 
being  presumed  to  take  some  spiritual  pains  in  that  place,  to  tbe 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


8  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1110. 

deserving  thereof:)  this  properly  was  frank-almonage,  bestowing  on 
God  in  his  church,  as  they  accounted  it,  what  was  their  own,  to 
estate  upon  Him.  But  the  Normans  embraced  a  cheaper  way  of 
dotations,  chiefly  bestowing  all  or  part  of  the  tithes  of  their  lands 
on  convents  of  their  foundation,  payable  out  of  parishes  lying  a 
good  distance  from  the  same  ;  and  this  was  according  to  the  French 
fashion.  Now,  if  it  be  true  that  tithes  be  due  jwre  Divino^  this 
was  no  gift,  but  a  payment,  which  they  were  bound  to  tender  to  the 
church ;  yea,  which  is  more,  such  grants  of  tithes  were  no  better 
than  felony,  robbing  the  ministers  of  their  respective  parishes  of 
what  was  due  unto  them  :  insomuch  that  they  took  the  oil  from  the 
wick,  (the  pastor  labouring  in  his  church,)  and  gave  it  to  the  thief 
or  waster  in  the  lamp,  to  which  the  idle  monks  may  fitly  be  com- 
pared. 

8.  Cambridge  first  made  a  Corporation.    2  Henry  I.    A.D.  1101. 

To  repair  the  damage  lately  done  by  Montgomery  to  the  town 
of  Cambridge,  king  Henry  I.  bestowed  many  privileges  thereon, 
which  the  University  is  so  &r  from  repining,  she  rejoiceth  thereat. 
For,  well  may  the  jewel  delight  to  be  put  in  a  handsome  cabinet. 
He  freed  the  town  from  the  power  of  the  sheriff,  making  it  a  corpo- 
ration, upon  the  payment  of  one  hundred  and  one  marks  yearly  into 
the  exchequer ;  which  sum  the  sheriff  paid  before  for  his  profits  out 
of  the  town,  when  it  was  under  his  jurisdiction.  Besides,  whereas 
the  ferry  over  the  river  Grant  was  a  vagrant  before,  even  any  where, 
where  passengers  could  get  waftage  over,  by  authority  and  custom 
it  now  began  to  be  fixed  near  Cambridge';  which  brought  much 
trading  and  concourse  of  people  thereunto. 

9.  T%e  Original  of  Midsummer  Fair.   A.D.  1103. 

About  this  time  Barnwell,  that  is.  Children Vwell,  a  village 
within  the  precincts  of  Cambridge,  got  both  the  name  thereof  and 
a  fair  therein,  on  this  occasion  : — Many  little  children  on  midsum- 
mer (or  St.  John  Baptist's)  eve  met  there  in  mirth  to  play  and  sport 
together.*  Their  company  caused  the  confluence  of  more  and  bigger 
boys  to  the  place.  Then  bigger  than  they,  even  their  parents 
themselves,  came  thither,  to  be  delighted  with  the  activity  of  their 
children.  Meat  and  drink  must  be  had  for  their  refection,  which 
brought  some  victualling-booths  to  be  set  up.  Pedlars  with  toys 
and  trifles  cannot  theq  be  supposed  long  absent,-  whose  packs  in 
short  time  swelled  into  tradesmen's  stalls  of  all  commodities.  Now 
it  is  become  a  great  fair,  and,  as  I  may  term  it,  one  of  the  towns- 
men's "  Commencements,"  wherein  they  take  their  "degrees'"  of 
•  lAbtr  BamweUetuis, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


n  HENB\  I.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  9 

wealth,  frauglit  with  all  store  of  wares,  and  nothing,  except  buyers, 
wanting  therein. 

10.  Thejiret  Coming  of  Jews  to  Cambridge.    A.D.  1106. 

Jews  at  this  time  came  first  to  Cambridge,  and  possessed  a  great 
part  of  the  town,  called  the  Jewry  at  this  day.  Round-church  in 
the  Jewry  is  conjectured,  by  the  rotundity  of  the  structure,  to  have 
heen  built  for  their  synagogue.  Much  like  whereunto,  for  fabric 
and  &shion,  I  have  seen  another  at  Northampton,  where  Jews  about 
the  same  time  had  their  seminary.  Some  will  say,  Cambridge,  an 
inland  town  of  small  trading,  was  ill-chosen  by  these  Jews  for  their 
seat ;  where  the  poor  scholars,  if  borrowing  from  these  usurers,  were 
likely  to  bring  but  small  profit  unto  them.  But  let  it  suffice,  that 
the  Jews  chose  this  place,  whom  no  Christians  need  advise,  for 
their  own  advantage.  Here  their  carriage  was  very  civil ;  not  com- 
plained of,  as  elsewhere,  for  cruel  crucifying  of  Christian  children, 
and  other  enormities. 

11 — 13.  Cambridge  restored  to  Learning  by  the  Abbot  of  Crowland. 
A  Grrain  of  Seed  soon  grown  a  Tree.  The  Time  of  this  Author'' s 
Writing.    A.D.  1109,  1110. 

Now  the  reader  is  requested  seriously  to  peruse  the  following 
passage  as  faithfiilly  transcribed  out  of  an  excellent  author,*  and  of 
high  concernment  in  this  our  history :— "  Joffired,  abbot  oF  Crow- 
land,  sent  over  to  his  manor  of  Cottenham,  nigh  Cambria,  Gislebert, 
his  fellow-monk,  and  professor  of  Divinity,  with  three  other  monks  ; 
who,  following  him  into  England,  being  thoroughly  furnished  with 
philosophical  theorems,  and  other  primitive  sciences,  repaired  daily 
to  Cambridge  ;  and,  having  hired  a  certain  public  bam,  made  open 
profession  of  their  sciences,  and  in  short  space  of  time  drew  together 
a  great  company  of  scholars. 

"  But  in  the  second  year  after  their  coming,  the  number  of  their 
scholars  grew  so  great,  as  well  from  out  of  the  whole  country,  as  the 
town,  that  the  biggest  house  and  bam  that  was,  or  any  church  what- 
soever, sufficed  not  to  contain  them.  Whereupon,  sorting  them- 
selves apart  in  several  places,  and  taking  the  University  of  Orleans 
for  their  pattern,  early  in  the  morning,  monk  Odo,  a  singular  gram- 
marian, and  satirical  poet,  read  Grammar  unto  boys,  and  those  of 
the  younger  sort  assigned  unto  him,  according  to  the  doctrine  of 
Priscian,  and  Remigius  upon  him.  At  one  of  the  clock,  Terricus, 
a  most  witty  and  subtle  sophister,  taught  the  elder  sort  of  young 
men  Ari6totle**s  Logic,  after  the  introductions  of  Porphyry,  and  the 
comments  of  Averrhoes.     At  three  of  the  clock,  monk  William 

*  p.  BLiESENSis  in  his  Additament  to  the  History  of  Ingnlphns. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


10  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1112. 

read  a  lecture  in  Tully^s  Rhetoric,  and  Qointilian^s  Flares,  But 
the  great  Master  Oislebert,  upon  every  Sunday  and  holy-day, 
preached  Ood'^s  word  unto  the  people.  And  thus  out  of  this  little 
fountain,  which  grew  to  be  a  great  river,  we  see  how  the  city  of 
God  now  is  become  enriched,  and  all  England  made  fruitful  by 
means  of  very  many  Masters  and  Doctors  proceeding  out  of  Cam- 
bridge, in  manner  of  the  holy  paradise,''  &c. 

This  author  writ  some  fifty  years  after  the  coming  of  these  Crow- 
land  Professors  to  Cambridge ;  so  that,  who  seriously  considereth 
how  learning  there,  from  a  contemptible  occasion,  by  small  means, 
in  so  short  a  time,  improved  itself  to  so  great  a  height,  will  con- 
clude much  of  Providence  therein  ;  and  we  may  observe,  according 
to  Scripture  expression,  "  God  had  prepared  the  people,  for  the 
thing  was  done  suddenly,"  2  Chron.  xxix.  36. 

14,  15.  An  apparent  Injury  offered  to  Cambridge,    She  is  mn- 
dicatedfi'om  such  as  traduce  hef. 

But  some  adversaries  to  the  antiquity  of  Cambridge  represent 
and  improve  this  action  much  to  her  disadvantage,  as  if  newly  now, 
and  not  before,  she  began  to  be  an  University ;  objecting,  that  "  if 
scholars  were  at  Cambridge  before  the  coming  of  those  four  Profess- 
ors thither,  they  showed  small  civility  in  giving  those  strangers  no 
better  entertainment ;  to  whom  they  should  have  said,  as  once 
Laban  to  Abraham's  servant, — "  Come  in,  ye  blessed  of  the  Lord, 
wherefore  stand  you  without  ? "  Gen.  xxiv.  31,  welcoming  them  to 
their  Halls,  Hostels,  Chambers,  Studies,  with  the  best  &re  their 
present  condition  afforded ;  especially,  seeing  scholars  (of  all  noen) 
are  soonest  acquainted,  the  sameness  of  profession  commonly  making 
them  familiar  at  the  first  sight.  It  seems,  therefore,  that,  at  their 
coming  thither,  either  Cambridge  had  no  scholars  in  her,  or  her 
scholars  had  no  manners  in  them ;  yea,  had  not  read  so  much  as 
Tully's  *  Offices,'  to  teach  them  civility  to  strangers  professing 
learning,  but  suffered  them  to  live,  and  read  in  a  bam,  by  them- 
selves." 

In  answer  hereunto,  may  the  reader  be  pleased  to  take  into  his 
impartial  consideration  the  following  particulars  : — 

1.  Not  much  more  than  twenty  years  since,  that  mischievous 
man,  Robert  of  Montgomery,  had  despoiled  Cambridge.  And  no 
wonder,  if  the  blackbirds  were  slow  in  flying  back  to  their  nests, 
which  had  been  so  lately  destroyed. 

2.  Yet  a  racemation  at  least  of  scholars  either  remained  in  Cam- 
bridge all  that  plundering  time,  or  returned  soon  after  it.  •  For  we 
find  king  Henry  I.  in  the  second  [year]  of  his  reign,  by  order,  com- 
manding some  civilians  there  to  perform  their  Acts,  and  pay  the 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


]3  HBMitr  I.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  H 

beadles  their  fees,  which  formerly  they  refused ;  and  this  was  some 
years  before  the  coming  of  the  Growland  Professors  hither.* 

3.  Probably  some  emulation,  not  to  say  envy,  (a  canker  we  find 
fretting  the  fairest  flowers,)  might  make  some  distance  betwixt  the 
old  stock  of  standing  scholars  in  Cambridge,  and  this  new  addition 
of  Professors.  Our  aunt  Oxford  may  easily  remember  what  little 
love,  yea,  how  great  grudging,  there  was  betwixt  her  ancient  stu- 
dents, and  that  new  plantation  of  scholars  which  St.  Grimbald,-f 
under  king  Alfred,  first  placed  there. 

4.  The  marrellous  increase  of  learning  in  Cambridge,  in  so 
short  a  time  after  the  coming  of  the  Crowland  Professors  thither,  is 
justly  imputed  to  this  cau^e,*— for  that  Cambridge  had  formerly 
been  a  place  of  learning.  Thus  when  green  wood  is  long  in  kin- 
dling, brands  (which  before  were  half-burnt,  and  then  quenched)  do 
quickly  take  fire,  and  presently  blaze  into  a  bright  flame. 

In  a  word,  such  men  who  have  made  remarkable  additions  to 
what  was  begun  long  before,  often-times,  as  proudly  as  falsely,  con- 
ceit themselves  the  first  founders  thereof.  Thus  Nebuchadnezzar : 
"  Is  not  this  great  Babylon  that  I  have  built  ? ''  Daniel  iv.  30. 
Whereas  he,  and  all  the  world,  knew  that  Semiramis  built  it  a 
thousand  years  before  his  cradle  was  made,  though  he  no  doubt 
might  strengthen,  enlarge,  and  beautify  the  same.  And,  as  re- 
storers are  apt  to  mistake  themselves  for  the  founders,  so,  by  infection 
of  the  same  error,  the  spectators  of  such  repairers  are  prone  to  mis- 
interpret them  for  beginners ;  as  here  these  Crowland  Professors  are 
erroneously  apprehended  the  founders  of  Cambridge.  Thus  the 
river  Anas,  in  Spain,  after  it  hath  run  above  sixty  miles  under 
ground,  may  be  by  ignorant  people  conceived  to  have  his  birth,  his 
fountain,  there,  where  in  truth  he  hath  but  his  resurrection  at  his 
springing  out  of  earth  the  second  time.  And  thus  sluggards  in  the 
morning  count  the  sun  but  then  to  arise,  when  it  newly  breaks  forth 
of  a  cloud,  and  was  risen  some  hours  before. 

16.  Pain  P&cerel founds  B(x/rnweU  Priory.    A.D.  1112. 

Pain  Peverel,  standard-bearer  to  Robert  duke  of  Normandy,  in 
the  Holy  Land,  removed  Picot's  foundation  from  St.  Giles  in  Cam- 
bridge, (where  they  were  pent  for  room,)  to  a  larger  place,^  of 
thirteen  acres,  at  Barnwell,  about  a  mile  oflT,  where  one  Oodesonn 
formerly  led  a  hermitical  life.  This  Peverel  increased  the  number 
of  those  canons  fix)m  six  to  thirty,  (because,  forsooth,  at  that 
time  he  was  just  thirty  years  old,)  and  endowed  them  with  large 
revenues.  Afterwards,  in  process  of  time,  Barnwell  became  a  prime 
priory,  through  the  bounty  of  many  benefactors,  and  able  at  the 

•  Caids,  m  HUtorid  Cantab.  t  ^ide  suprd,  "  Chnrch  History,"  vol.  i.  p.  183, 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


12  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1144. 

dissolution  of  abbeys  to  expend,  of  old  rents  low-rated,  three 
hundred  fifty-one  pounds,  fifteen  shillings,  four-pence;  insomucli 
that  the  prior  thereof,  in  the  forty-ninth  year  of  king  Henry  III. 
by  writ,  bearing  date  at  Woodstock,  the  twenty-fourth  of  December, 
was,  with  many  more,  'eoltmtarii  summonitus^  ^^  freely  summoned,"^ 
saith  the  record,  to  be  present  as  a  baron  in  Parliament.  But  let 
him  make  much  of  this  favour,  which  never  before  or  after  was 
bestowed  upon  him  or  his  successors.  These  black  canons  of 
Barnwell  were  generally  kind  neighbours  to  the  scholars,  and  their 
prior  did  sometimes  good  offices  unto  them. 

17.  Alphred  of  Bef^erley^  Student  in  Cambridge.    A.D.  1129. 

Now,  amongst  the  eminent  scholars  who  at  this  time  studied  in 
Cambridge,  Alfred  of  Beverley  was  of  especial  note.*  He  was 
bom  in  Yorkshire,  lived  many  years  in  Cambridge  to  gain  learning; 
where  he  attained  to  be  an  excellent  philosopher,  divine,  and  his- 
torian. Returning  into  his  native  country  at  Beverley,  he  wrote 
the  history  of  the  British  nation,  from  the  beginning  of  the  world 
unto  his  own  age ;  which  work  was  by  him  truly  and  elegantly 
composed.  He  is  commonly  sumamed  "  the  treasurer ;  ^  a  title 
given  him,  as  I  conceive,  not  for  bearing  that  office  in  his  convent, 
but  from  his  diligent  searching,  discreet  selecting,  methodical  com- 
piling, and  careful  preserving,  or  treasuring  up,  precious  passages 
of  former  ages  for  the  use  of  posterity.  This  Alfred,  when  living 
in  Cambridge,  maintained  himself  (as  the  rest  of  the  students 
there)  on  his  own  cost ;  every  scholar  in  that  age  being  his  own 
founder  and  benefactor.  For,  as  yet,  no  public  halls  or  hostels 
were  built  for  to  receive  them,  but  each  one  lived,  as  St.  Paul  at 
Rome,  "  in  his  own  hired  house,^^  Acts  xxviii.  30,  as  they  could 
contract  with  the  townsmen  ;  who,  unconscionably  improving  them- 
selves on  the  scholars^  necessities,  extorted  unreasonable  rents  from 
them ;  as  hereafter,  Ood  willing,  shall  appear. 

18.  Unwonder  me  this  Wonder. 
And  here  I  must  admire  one  thing,  and  shall  be  thankful  to  such 
who-  will  cure  my  wonder,  by  showing  nje  the  cause  of  that  I 
wonder  at : — "  What  might  be  the  reason,  that  monks  and  friars  in 
this  age  had  such  stately  houses,  rich  endowments,  plentiful  main- 
tenance ?  whilst  students  in  the  University  had  poor  chambers,  hard 
fare,  short  means,  and  that  on  their  own  or  parents^  charges  :  and 
yet  there  was  more  honesty,  industry,  painfulness,  and  piety  within 
the  study  of  one  scholar,  than  [within]  the  cells  of  a  hundred 
monks  ?"     Some,  perchance,  mil  impute  this  to  the  fancy  of  men, 

•  Bale,  De  Scriptortbui  Britan,  Cent,  U.  page  167. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


10  STEPHEN.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  13 

—lapping,  dandling,  and  feeding  monkeys  and  marmosets,  while 
creatures  of  more  use  are  less  regarded.  Others  will  say,  '*  It  was 
because  scholars  studied  the  liberal — ^monks  the  lucrative-HSciences ; 
uni?ersity-meB  w^e  more  busied  in  reading  books,  than  mumbling 
of  masses,  and  praying  for  the  dead, — the  main  matter  which  brought 
grist  to  the  monks^  mill.*"  Whatever  was  the  secret  cause,  this 
was  the  apparent  effect  thereof: — Scholars,  as  they  were  lean,  so 
they  were  lively,  attracted  less  envy,  procured  more  love,  endured 
more  labour,  which  made  them  to  last  and  to  live  after  the  destruc- 
tion of  the  other* 

19.  The  first  Earl  of  Cambridge.     4  Stephen.     A.D.  1139. 

William  [de]  Meschines,  brother  to  Ranulph  earl  of  Chester, 
was  by  king  Stephen  made  the  first  earl  of  Cambridge.  And  it  is 
no  small  credit  to  Cambridge,  that,  after  this  William,  none  were 
ever  honoured  with  that  title,  but  such  who  were  princes  of  the  blood 
royal ; — either  actual  kings  of  Scotland,  or  kings^  sons  or  nephews 
of  England,  or  foreign  and  free  princes  of  their  next  alliance ;  as 
hereafter,  God  willing,  will  appear  at  their  several  creations :  So 
careful  were  our  English  kings  in  choosing  such  persons  for  the 
place,  who,  receiving  honour  from  so  famous  an  University,  might 
also,  hy  their  high  birth  and  honourable  demeanour,  return  lustre 
thereunto. 

20.  David  King  of  Scots,  JEarl  of  Cambridge.    A.D.  1144. 

For  after  the  death  of  this  Meschines,  one  may  confidently  pro- 
nounce, that  David  king  of  the  Scots  (commonly  called  St.  David) 
was  earl  of  Cambridge :  and  although  his  charter  cannot  be  produced 
with  the  formalities  used  at  his  creation,  (modem  ceremonies  at  the 
investing  of  counts  not  being  used  in  that  age,)  yet,  that  he  was 
effectually  earl  of  Cambridge,  by  the  ensuing  evidence  doth  suffi- 
ciently appear.  It  is  a  grant  made  by  M^ud  the  enipress,  daughter 
of  king  Henry  I.  unto  Aubrey  de  Vere,  afterward  earl  of  Oxford ; 
part  whereof  (so  much  as  concerns  the  present  point)  we  have  here 
transcribed,  translated,  and  comn^ented  on,  conceiving  it  to  contain 
some  criticisms  in  history  and  heraldry  worthy  observation.* 

Concedo  qtiod  sit  Comes  de  Cantebruggescire^  et  haheat  inde  ter- 
tium  denarium  sicut  Comes  debet  habere.  Jta  dico  si  Rex  Scotice 
fion  habet  ilium  Comitatum.  Et  hi  Rex  habuerit^  perquiram  iUud 
^  ad  posse  meiim  per  Escambium.  .  Et  si  rum  potero^  twic  c(o  ei,  et 
concedo,  qvM  sit  Comes  de  quolibet  qiMtuor  Comitatuum  subscrip- 
torum,  tiz.  Oxenfordscire,  Berkscire,  Wiltscire,  et  Dorsetscire,  per 

*  Extant  among  the  Records  of  the  earls  of  Oxford  cited  at  large  hy  Augustine 
Vincent,  in  his  Correction  of  Btook's  Errors,  page  393. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


14  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1208. 

connlium  et  consideraiianem  Comitis  Gheestrim^  froitrU  mei,  et 
Comitis  Gaufridi^  et  Comitis  Gilberti. 

"  I  grant  that  he  be  earl  of  Cantbruggeshire,  and  that  he  have 
from  thence  the  third  penny,  as  tlie  earl  ought  to  have.  So  I  say, 
if  the  king  of  Scotland  hath  not  that  earldom  :  and  if  the  king  hath 
it,  I  shall  to  my  power  procure  it  him  by  exchange.  And  if  I 
cannot,  then  I  give  and  grant  unto  him,  that  he  be  earl  of  which  he 
will  of  the  four  earldoms  subscribed ;  namely,  Oxfordshire,  Berk- 
shire, Wiltshire,  and  Dorsetshire ;  by  the  counsel  and  advice  of  the 
earl  of  Gloucester,  my  brother,  and  of  earl  Geoffery,  and  of  earl 
Gilbert." 

The  date  of  this  grant  is  uncertain  ;  but  from  the  hand  of  her 
brother,  the  earl  of  Gloucester,  subscribed  thereunto,  we  collect 
that  it  must  be  before  the  year  1146,  wherein  the  said  earl  ended 
his  life. 

21.  Observations  collected  from  this  Grant. 
Out  of  this  grant  observe.  First :  That  though  Stephen,  de  facto, 
was  king  of  England,  yet  the  right  was  in  this  Maud  the  empress. 
Betwixt  these  two  for  many  years  it  was  "  catch  who  catch  may,'' 
both  in  gaining  of  places  and  giving  of  honours,  as  success 
befriended  them.  Secondly:  That  earls  in  that  age  were  earls 
indeed,  not  merely  titular,  but  substantial,  as  receiving  the  third 
penny  (I  humbly  conceive  it  of  the  crown-revenues  therein)  of  the 
county  whence  they  had  their  honour.  Thirdly :  Kings  of  Scot- 
land accounted  it  no  abatement  to  their  crown-royal,  to  wear  with  it 
an  English  coronet,  holding  {in  commendam^  as  I  may  say)  with 
their  own  crown  one  or  more  of  English  earldoms :  as  here  king 
David  held  Cambridge  in  his  own,  and  Huntingdon  in  right  of  his 
wife.  Fourthly :  As  the  counties  of  Cambridge  and  Huntingdon 
soon  after  the  Conquest  were  united  under  one  comes  or  "  earl ; ''  * 
so  they  two  (only  of  all  shires  in  England)  remain  under  one 
mcecomes  or  "sheriff""  at  this  day.  Fifthly:  Queen  Maud 
earnestly  endeavoured  (in  compliance,  no  doubt,  with  the  desires 
of  her  favourite  Aubrey  de  Vere)  to  confer  the  county  of  Cam- 
bridge upon  him,  as  a  place  of  principal  honour,  above  the  four 
other  counties  proffered  unto  him.  Sixthly:  The  honour  of  the 
title  of  Cambridge  arose  from  the  famous  University  therein ; 
otherwise  the  aforesaid  Aubreyi  if  consulting  his  profit,  would 
clearly  have  preferred  either  Oxfordshire,  Berkshire,  Wiltshire,  or 
Dorsetshire,  as  greater  in  extent,  and  therefore  returning,  by  the 
third  penny  therein,  larger  revenues.  Lastly :  Seeing  a  good  title 
of  Cambridge  could  not  be  made  to  him,  (as  prepossessed  by  the 

*  See  Camden's  Britannia  in  Hnntingdonthire. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


9  JOHN.  UNIV£RSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  15 

Scotch  king,)  Aubrey  was  contented  with  and  thankfiil  for  Oxford, 
as  the  other  famous  University  in  England ;  which  title  his  noble 
and  most  ancient  family  enjoyeth  at  this  day. 

22,  23.  NigeCluis  Foundation  in  Cambridge,    Roger  of  Hereford^ 
Student  in  Cambridge.    A.D.  1145—1170. 

Nigellus  or  Neale,  second  bishop  of  Ely,  having  first  obtained  a 
faculty  from  the  pope,  founded  an  hospital  for  canons  regular  in 
Cambridge,  in  the  place  where  now  St.  John^s  college  is  erected.* 
He  is  said  to  have  endowed  the  same  with  a  hundred  and  forty 
pounds  by  the  year,  yearly  rent :  which,  if  so,  in  that  age  was  a 
vast  proportion. 

Roger  of  Hereford,  so  named  because  bom  there,  studied  at  this 
time  in  Cambridge,  [and]  became  an  admirable  astronomer,  philo- 
sopher, and  chymist,  diving  much  into  the  mysteries  of  metals. 
He  wrote  many  books  of  astronomy  and  astrology,  which  for  a  long 
time  were  kept  in  Cambridge  library,  but  not  extant  (I  fear)  at  this 
day.  Yet  the  Oxford  antiquary  "f  will  by  no  means  allow  this 
Roger  a  student  in  Cambridge,  as  who  flourished  before  the  coming 
of  the  Crowland  Professors  thither :  but  whether  more  credit  may 
be  hung  on  this  single  Twine^  than  on  the  twisted  testimony  of 
Leiand,  Bale,  and  Pits,  (all  agreeing  both  in  his  education  at  Cam- 
bridge, and  flourishing  in  this  age,)  be  it  reported  to  any  ingenuous 
reader. 

24,  25.  A  merciless  Fire.     Oxford  deserted^  and  partly  removed  to 
Cambridge.     9  John.     A.D.  1174—1208. 

There  happened  a  merciless  fire  in  Cambridge ;  only  so  pitiful 
as  to  go  out  when  no  more  fuel  was  left  to  feed  the  fury  thereof. 
Most  of  the  churches  in  the  town  (then  built  of  wood,  and  there- 
fore the  more  combustible)  were  burned  in  part,  and  Trinity- 
church  wholly  consumed.  %  Hence  it  was,  that,  for  time  to  come, 
the  steeple  thereof  was  firmly  built  of  freestone,  to  prevent,  by 
God's  goodness,  the  return  of  the  like  casualty. 

A  sad  accident  happened  this  year  at  Oxford.  §  A  clergyman 
and  student  in  that  University  casually  killed  a  woman,  and  fled 
upon  it.  The  mayor  of  the  city,  with  other  officers,  search  after 
him,  light  on  three  of  his  chamber-fellows,  both  innocent  and  igno- 
rant of  the  fact  committed :  these  they  injuriously  thrust  into 
prison,  and,  some  days  after,  king  John  (a  back-friend  to  the 
clergy,  as  continually  vexed  with  their  constant  opposition)  com- 

•  Godwin  in  Episc.  Ely,  page  306.  t  Brian  Twyne,  jipolog,  lib.  ii. 

page  219.  X  Caiub,  Hist.  Cantah.  §  Matthew  Paris,  in  anno  1209, 

page  228. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


16  HISTORY  OF  THK  a.d.  1229. 

manded  them  to  be  executed,  *'  in  contempt,'*  saith  my  author,  "  of 
ecclesiastical  liberty.''  Offended  hereat,  three  thousand  students  at 
once  left  Oxford,  as  well  masters  as  scholars  ;  ita  quod  nee  unus  ex 
omni  Universitate  remansit^  "  so  that  not  one  remained  of  all  the 
University."  Of  these  some  removed  to  Cambridge,  some  to 
Reading ;  so  that  in  this  total  eclipse  of  learning  therein,  Oxford 
was  left  empty  for  a  season. 

26,  27.  John  of  St.  Omer%  a  Poet^  bred  in  Cambridge.  JoceUne 
Brakelandy  a  Historian  therein.     A.D.  1209 — 1211. 

John  of  St.  Omer's  studied  about  this  time  at  Cambridge.  By 
his  surname  I  should  have  conjectured  him  a  foreigner  of  Artois, 
had  not  my  author  assured  me,  that  he  was  bom  in  Norfolk.* 
Yea,  when  a  monk  of  Peterborough,  bred  also  in  Cambridge,  had, 
with  his  satirical  Latin  rhymes,  abused  the  county  of  Norfolk,  our 
John  gave  him  as  good  as  he  brought ;  rhyme  for  rh3rme,  and  jest 
for  jest :  yet  his  pen  was  so  much  the  better  employed  than  his  adver- 
sary's, as  the  writer  of  a  just  vindication  is  to  be  preferred  before  a 
scurrilous  libeller. 

With  more  credit  to  himself,  and  profit  to  others,  was  Joceline 
Brakeland  employed  ;  who  about  this  time  in  Cambridge  improved 
himself  in  divine  and  human  leaming.-f"  Afterwards  he  became  a 
monk  at  Bury  in  Suffolk,  where  he  was  bom ;  and  of  his  own 
accord,  unimportuned  by  any  other,  as  faithfully  as  learnedly  wrote 
the  History  of  his  convent,  which  he  transmitted  to  posterity. 

28,  29.  The  University  in  a  sad  Condition;  which  still  continueth. 
A.D.  1214—1217. 

Most  miserable  at  this  time  was  the  condition  of  Cambridge. 
For  the  barons,  to  despite  king  John,  with  their  forces  harassed 
and  destroyed  the  town  and  county  thereof,  taking  Cambridge 
Castle  by  assault ;  and  no  wonder,  when  only  twenty  men  were 
found  therein,  not  enough  to  make  good  the  twentieth  part  thereof, 
— such  then  was  its  capacity  and  extent.  To  cry  quits  with  the 
barons,  William  earl  of  Salisbury,  and  Palk  de  Brent,  (king  John's 
favourite,)  replundered  Cambridgeshire ;  {  leaving  nothing  worth  any 
thing  behind  them,  that  was  not  too  hot  or  too  heavy  for  them  to 
carry  away. 

And  two  years  after,  when  Walter  Buuk,  with  his  Brabanters, 
destroyed  the  town  and  isle  of  Ely,  and  almost  bumed  the  minster 
therein, — ^not  quenched  with  the  water  of  her  fens,  but  with  the 
wise  composition  of  prior  Stephen :    I  say,  when  Ely  was  almost 

•  Balmus,  Cent.  iii.  page  261.  t  Idem,  page  269.  t  Matthew 

Paris,  anno  1216,  page  274. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


13  HiHRV  III.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDQS.  17 

bumed^  Cambridge  no  doubt  was  well  warmed^  as  sorrowfiill^  sen- 
sible of  its  near  neighbour's  calamity.  The  scholars  then  had 
steady  heads  and  strong  brains,  if  able  to  study  in  these  distempers, 
when  loud  drums  and  trumpets  silenced  the  sweet  but  low  liarp  <]f 
Apollo.  But  we  know  how  Archimedes  was  busy  in  making  his 
mathematical  figures,  even  when  Syracuse  was  .taken  by  soldiei:B ; 
and  possibly  some  grave  students  made  their  souls  unconcerned  in 
all  these  martial  disturbances. 

30—32.  Eds  sent  ft<m  Cambridge  to  Orford.  A  Gaol  made 
of  a  Jew^s  House.  PrivUegee  confirmed  to  Cambridge. 
6  Henry  III.     X2>.  1221— 1227. 

The  king,  being  at  Oxford,  sent  to  the  bailiff  of  Cambridge,  (as 
living  near  Ely,  the  staple  of  fish,)  to  send  unto  him  such  a  propor- 
tion of  eels,  for  the  provisions  of  his  court,  and  it  should  be 
discounted  unto  him  out  of  the  exchequer. 

The  king,  by  his  letters  to  the  sheriff  of-  Cambridgeshire,  gave 
order,  that  he  should  put  the  bailiffs  of  C^mbridg^e  ipto  the  j^sses- 
sion  of  the  house  of  Benjamin  the  Jew,  (probably  forfeited  to  the 
crown  on  his  misdemeanour,)  to  make  thereof,  a  common  gaol  for 
their  corporation. 

The  king  confirmed  to  the  townsmen  of  Cambridge  the  privileges 
conferred  by  his  father  upon  them ;  namely,  that  the  merchaots  of 
the  guild  in  Cambridge  should  be  free  in  all  feirs  in  the  king'^g 
dominions  on  this  side  and  beyond  the  seas,  de  tAeolonio^  et  pa^ 
sagioy  et  lestagio^  et  pontagio^  et  stallagio.  Ill  would  it  be  for 
the  townsmen,  should  none  of  them  enjoy  the  benefit  of  this  royal 
charter  till  they  perfectly  understood  the  terms  therein.  •  In  this 
grant  provision  is  made,  that  nothing  be  done  in  prejudice  of 
London;  so  careful  were  our  kings  always  of  that  city;  but 
whether  that  city  reciprocally  of  them,  let  others  inquire. 

33.  Paris  Students  inmted  over  into  England.    A.D.  1229. 

Sad  at  this  present  was  the  condition  of  the  University  of  Paris  ; 
such  murders  were  done,  ^nd  affronts  offered,  to  the  students 
thereof.  Our  king  Henry  being  half  a  Frenchman,  (in  the  right  of 
his  queen,)  and  possessing  many— ^pretending  to  more— dominions 
in  France,  taking  advantage  hereof,  July  16th,  *^  invited  die 
Parisian  students  to  come  over  into  England,  and  to  dwell  in  what 
cities,  boroughs,  and  villages  they  pleased  to  choose  :'"*  an  act 
no    less    politic   than  charitable,  to    fortify  himself  with  foreign 

*  Ejf  Rotulo  Patenti  de  anno  deeimo  tertio  regit  Henrzci  III.  meynbrand  sextd  in 
Turrt  Londinenti. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


18  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1231. 

affection  ;  knowing,  that  such  Frenchmen,  who  in  their  youths  had 
English  education,  would  in  their  age  retain  English  inclinations. 
We  easily  believe  the  greatest  part  of  these  strangers  repaired  to 
Oxford ;  ^  though  Cambridge  no  doubt  did  share  in  them,  her 
considerable  proportion. 

34,  35.    Counterfeit  Scholars  do  much  Mischief.      The  Sheriff 
commanded  to  suppress  these  Mali^nants,    ^,D,  1231. 

A  crew  of  pretenders  to  scholarship  (as  long  as  there  are  true 
diamonds,  there  will  be  counterfeit)  did  much  mischief  at  this  time 
in  the  University.  These  lived  under  no  discipline,  having  no  tutor, 
saving  him  who  teacheth  all  mischief;  and  when  they  went  to  act 
any  villainy,  then  they  would  be  scholars^  to  sin  with  the  more 
secrecy  and  less  suspicion.  When  cited  to  answer  for  their  wicked- 
ness, in  the  Chancellor's  court,  then  they  would  be  no-scholars^  and 
exempt  themselves  from  his  jurisdiction.  *  No  wonder  if  Cambridge 
was  pestered  with  such  cheats,  seeing  the  church  of  Thyatira  itself 
had  those  in  her  "  which  called  themselves  prophets,"  and  were  not, 
Rev.  ii.  20.  Civil  students  suffered  much  by  and  more  for  these 
incorrigible  rake-hells,  especially  from  such  mouths  who  are  excellent 
at  an  uncharitable  synecdoche, — ^to  call  all  after  a  part,  and  to  con- 
demn the  whole  Univereity  for  a  handful  of  hang-byes,  such  as  never 
were  matriculated  members  therein. 

In  vain  did  the  Chancellor  endeavour  the  suppressing  of  these 
"  malignants,"  as  the  king  calleth  them  in  his  letter  to  the  sheriff; 
the  hands  of  the  University  being  too  weak  to  pluck  up  weeds  so 
deeply  rooted.  In  vain  also  did  the  Chancellor  call  in  the  assist- 
ance of  the  bailiff  and  burgesses  of  the  town,  who,  as  the  king 
taxeth  them  in  one  of  his  letters,  aut  impofentes  fuerunt^  aut  negli- 
gentes^  to  effect  the  matter.  The  business  was  at  last,  by  command 
from  the  king,  devolved  to  the  sheriff,  as  appears  by  what 
followeth  : — 

Beoo  Vicecom.  Gantahrigiensi  salutem. — Quoniam  ut  audimmus 
plures  nominantur  Clerici  apud  Cantabr,  qui  sub  nullius  magistri 
scholariwm  sunt  disdplind  et  tuitione^  sed  potius  mentitmtur  se  esse 
scholares  cUm  non  sint,  ut  tutiUs  et  forties  (msA  ad  hoc  opportuni- 
tate)  queant  malignari^  tibi  prwdpimus^  qtiod  assumptis  tecum 
probis  et  kgcdilms  hominibm  de  comitatu  tuo,  accedas  ad  mllam 
nostram  Camtabr.  etper  totam  mllam  iUam  clamari  fa^cias  ex  parte 
nostra  quod  nullus  clerictis  morSur  in  mild,  qui  non  sit  sub  disci- 
plind,  loel  tuitione  alicujus  magistri  scholarium.  Et  si  aliqui  tales 
fuerint  in  mild  ilia,  ed  exeant  infra  quindecim  dies  postquam  hoc 
clamaium  fuerit.  Et  si  ultra  terminum  ilium  inventi  fuerint 
in  eddem  mild,  hujusmodi  clerici  capiantur,  et  in  prisonam  nos- 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


16henb?iic.  university  of  CAMBRIDGE.  IJ) 

tram  miUantur.     Teste  meipio  apud  Ox6n.  3  Maii^  amio  regni 
nostri  decimo  quinto,* 

Thus  the  sherifPwas  empowered  with  a  posse  eamitatus  to  redress 
this  grievance :  but  whether  or  no  with  a  velle  camitatus^  I  know 
not.  Sure  1  am,  these  clerks-no-clerks  disturbed  the  University 
for  many  years  after. 

»36,  37.  The  Unconscionableneas  of  the  Totmsmen  regulated  by  the 
King's  Letters, 

The  townsmen  of  Cambridge  began  now  most  unconscionably  to 
raise  and  rack  the  rent  of  their  houses  wherein  the  scholars  did 
sojourn.  Every  low  cottage  was  high  valued.  Sad  the  condition, 
^Tben  learning  is  the  tenant,  and  ignorance  must  be  the  landlord. 
It  came  at  last  to  this  pass,  that  the  scholars,  wearied  with  exac- 
tions, were  on  the  point  of  departing,  to  find  a  place  where  they 
might  be  better  accommodated  on  more  reasonable  conditions. 

Here  the  king  seasonably  interposed  his  power,  appointing,  that 
two  Masters  of  Arts  and  two  honest  townsmen  should  be  deputed 
as  Chancellors,  conscientiously  to  moderate  the  rigour  of  covetous- 
ness.  And  seeing  scholars  would  hire  as  cheap,  and  townsmen 
would  let  as  dear  as  they  could,  the  aforesaid  foul:  persons,  indif- 
ferently chosen  out  df  both  corporations,  were  to  order  the 
price  betwixt  both,  according  to  the.  tenor  of  the  king's  letter 
ensuing : — 

Rex  Majori  et  Ballims  Cantahr.  salutem, — Satis  constat  tobis 
quodaptid  mllam  nostram  Cantabr.  stvdendi  camd  e  diversis  parti- 
hm  tarn  cismarinis  quam  transmarinis  scholarium  confluit  multi- 
tudo,  quod  Tolde  gratam  habemus  et  a^cceptamtts^  cum  exemplum 
toti  regno  nostro  commodum  non  modicum^  et  honor  nobis  accrescat^ 
^  'MS  specialiter  inter  quos  fideliter  conversantur^  studentes  non 
fnediocriter  gaudere  debetis  et  ketari,  Atidivimus  autem  quod  in 
hospitiis  ^egtris  locandis  tarn  graves  et  onerosi  estis  scholaribtis  inter 
^s  commorantibuSy  qtidd  nisi  mensurabilit^  et  modestiils  vos  habtie- 
ritis  erga  ipsos  in  hdc  parte^  exactione  vestrd  fadenie^  oportebit 
ipm  mUam  vestram  emre^  et  studio  stw  relicto  a  terrd  nostra  rece- 
dere,  quod  nuUatenus  veUemtis.  Et  ided  vobis  mandamus^  firmiter 
injimgentes  quatenus  super  prcedictis  hospitiis  locandis^  vos  mensu^ 
rantes  secundum  consuetudinem  Univ&rsitatis  per  duos  magist/ros  et 
dttos  probos  et  legales  homines  de  villd  nostrd  ad  hoc  assignandos^ 
hospitia  prwdieta  taxoH^  et  secundum  eorum  taxationem  ea  locari 
permittatis;  taliter  vos  geremtes  in  hdc  parte^  ne  si  sectis  egeritis 
propter  quod  ad  nos  debeat  clamor  pervenire^   ad  hoc  manum 

•  Ex  RoUUo  clauso  de  anno  decimo  quifUo  regis  Henrici  tertii  in  dorso  in  Turre 
J^ondon. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


20  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1249. 

appcnere  iiebecmu8.     Teste  meipto  apud  Oxim.  teHio  die  Maiiy 
anno  regni  nostri  decimo  quinto.  +. 

-Er  rotfdo  dans,  de  anno  xv.  regis  ffenrid  tertii  in  dors,  in 
Twre  London.^ 

Examinat.  per  GuiL  Ryley. 

See  we  here :  Cambridge  appeareth  not  as  an  infant  of  yesterday, 
but  a  grave  matron  of  great  age ;  witness  those  words,  ''  according 
to  the  custom  of  the  University/'  which  show  her  gravity  and  gray 
hairs  at  the  time  of  the  date  thereof. 

38.  The  Original  of  Taxers. 
This  was  the  first  original  of  the  taxdtoree  or  "  taxers  "^  in  Cam- 
bridge, so  called  at  first  from  taxing,  pricing,  or  rating  the  rents  of 
houses.  Their  name  remains,  but  office  is  altered,  at  this  day. 
For  after  the  bounty  of  founders  had  raised  halls  and  colleges  for 
scholars'  free  abode,  their  liberality  gave  the  taxers  a  writ  of  ease, 
no  more  to  meddle  with  the  needless  pricing  of  townsmen's  houses. 
However,  two  taxers  are  still  annually  chosen ;  whose  place  is  of 
profit  and  credit,  as  employed  in  matters  of  weighty  and  to  see  the 
true  gauge  of  all  measures,  especially  such  as  concern  the  victuals  of 
scholars.  For,  where  the  belly  is  abused  in  its  food,  the  brains  will 
soon  be  distempered  in  their  study. 

39 — 42.  The  ill  Effects  of  Tournaments;  forbidden  within  pe 
MUes  of  Cambridge.  Mothers  of  Misnde.  A  sad  Chance. 
A.D.  1245. 

-  Tournaments  and  tilting  of  the  nobility  and  gentry  were  com- 
monly kept  at  Cambridge,  to  the  great  annoyance  of  the  scholars. 
Many  sad  casualties  were  caused  by  these  meetings,  though  ordered 
with  the  best  caution.  Arms  and  legs  were  often  broken,  as  well 
as  spears.  Much  lewd  people  waited  on  these  assemblies ;  light 
hovsewi'oes^  as  well  as  light  horsemen^  repaired  thereunto.  Yea, 
such  the  clashing  of  swords,  the  rattling  of  arms,  the  sounding  of 
trumpets,  the  neighing  of  horses,  the  shouting  of  men,  all  day-time, 
with  the  roaring  of  riotous  revellers  all  the  night,  that  the  scholars' 
jstudie^  were  disturbed,  safety  endangered,  lodging  straitened, 
charges  enlarged,  all  provisions  being  unconscionably  enhanced. 
In' a  word,  so  many  war-horses  were  brought  hithw,  that  Pegasus 
himself  was  likely  to  be  shut  out.  For,  where  Mars  keeps  his  term^ 
there' the  Muses  may  even  make  their  vacation. 

The  king,  being  complained  to  thereof,  did  plainly  show,  that  he 
preferred  the  quiet  of  the  University  before  the  profit  of  the  town  of 

-  •  The  same  letters,  in  effect,  were  often  confinndd  by  the  kingr,  in  the  fiftieth  year  of 
hii  reign. 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


33  HENfix  III.  UNIVBRSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  21 

Cambridge,  gaining  mach  money  by  these  meetings ;  and  therefore 
bj  his  letters  he  enjoined,  that  no  tilting  should  be  kept  within  five 
miles  of  Cambridge.  And  yet  so  stout  and  sturdy  were  martial 
men  in  that  age,  that  they  hardly  obeyed  him.  Yea^  I  find  one 
Ralph  de  Kamois,*  a  bold  chevalier,  who,  notwithstanding  the  pre- 
misses, kept  a  riotous  tilting  in  the  very  town  of  Cambridge ;  but 
soon  after  he  was  deeply  fined  for  his  high  contempt ;  on  the 
payment  whereof,  and  his  humble  submission  before  the  earls  of 
Cornwall,  Leicester,  and  Norfolk,  he  was  forgiven. 

Let  us  look  on  these  tournaments,  (unrelated  to  Cambridge,)  as 
tliey  were  in  themselves ;  and  we  shall  find  them  the  mothers  con- 
stantly of  misrule,  commonly  of  mischief.  Their  very  use  (in  their 
first  constitution)  was  no  better  than  an  abuse,  to  cover  malice 
under  the  cloak  of  manhood  and  merriment.  Mfiny  brought  per- 
sonal grudges,  some  family-feuds,  into  the  field  with  them ;  fewer 
retmned  than  went  forth,  as  either  casually  cut  off,  or  intentionally 
murdered. 

One  instance  of  the  former  out  of  many ;  though  AiU  twenty-four 
miles  from  Cambridge: — Gilbert  Marshal,  earl  of  Pembroke,  a 
potent  peer  of  the  land,  proclaimed  a  disport  of  tournament,  of 
running  on  horseback  with  lances,  (in  defiance  of  the  king^s  author- 
ity, who  had  inhibited  the  same,)  at  Ware  in  Hertford8hire,"f"  under 
the  name,  forsooth,  of  Fortune ;  as  if  Providence  had  nothing  to 
do  in  such  wild  recreations.  But  so  it  forttmedy  that  this  Gilbert, 
cast,  bruised,  and  killed  by  his  own  horse,  i^oon  ended  the  mirth  of 
the  meeting.  Call  it  not  therefore  "  cowardice,''  but  "  conscience 
and  charity,''  in  the  church,  which,  taking  these  tournaments  (no 
better  than  solemn  and  ceremonious  murder)  in  consideration, 
forbade  Christian  burial  to  such  as  should  be  slain  therein  ;  whilst 
the  civil  power  proceeded  severely  against  the  slayer;  and  so 
betwixt  both,  with  much  ado,  banished  this  barbarous  custom.  As 
for  such  tame  tilting,  (mere  martial  masques,)  since  used  at  court, 
being  rather  expensive  than  uncharitable,  they  are  of  a  different 
nature, 

43.  Fml  Work  in  Lent.    A.D.  1249. 

"  Strifes,  fights,  spoilings,  breaking  open  of  houses,"  (it  is  not 
me,  but  Matthew  Paris,  j  whom  thou  readest,)  *'  woundings,  and 
murder  betwixt  the  burgesses "  (probably  first  named,  because 
BR)8t  guilty)  >^ and  the  scholars  of  Cambridge;  and  that  in  the 
very  Lent,  that,  with  the  Holy  time,  holy  persons  also  might  be 
violated.  The  noise  thereof  ascended  to  the  ears  of  the  king  with  a 
great  complaint.'' 

*  Em  jircMvi*  Academia  Cant,  eleganter  descript.  impenHs  R,  Harrei  es  Turre 
LoNDONEvsi.  1  Camden's  Britannia  in  Hertfordshire.  t  /»  anno  1249^ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


22  HISTORY,  OF  THE  a.d.  1261. 

44.  'Ae  first  Founding  of  Peter-Hause.  A.D.  1257. 
Hugh  Balsham,  sub-prior,  (afterwards  bishop  of  Ely,)  began  the 
foundation  of  Peter-House  without  Trumpington-gate  near  tlie 
church  of  St.  Peter,  (since  fallen  down,)  from  the  vicinity  whereof 
it  seemeth  to  be  denominated.  As  yet  no  revenue  was  settled 
thereon :  only  the  students  that  lived  therein  (grinded  formerly 
by  the  townsmen  ^ith  unconscionable  rents  for  the  place  of  their 
abode)  thankfully  accounted  themselves  well-endowed  with  good 
chambers  and  studies  freely  bestowed  on  them.  But  more  hereof 
hereafter;  namely,  anno  1284,  when  this  college  was  enriched  witlj 
possessions. 

45 — 48.  Brawb  and  Bickerings  betwioct  southern  and  northern 
Scholars.  The  northern  Men  worsted.  The  Matter  referred 
to. the  Judges  itinerant ;  jremitted  to  the  former-  Cominissioners. 
A.D.  1261. 

In  vain  did  the  care  of  the  king  (in  favour  of  scholars)  so  lately 
remove  tilting  five  miles  from  Cambridge,  whilst  •  now  the  scholars 
ift  open  hostility  tilted  one  against  another,^— the  southern  against 
the  northern  men  therein.  What !  can  the  Muses  themselves  fall 
out,  and  fight  in  the  field  five  against  four  ?  I  find  not  the  first 
cause  of  the  falling-out  betwixt  northern  and  southern  men.  Surely 
the  mere  distance  of  their  nativity  did  not  cause  their  diflTerence, 
because  the  one  was  bom  nearer-  to  the  sun  than  the  other !  But, 
however  the  brawl  began,  the  northern  men  were  worsted  in  the 
end  thereof.  Strange,  that.  Boreas,  the  most  boisterous  wind  in  all 
the  compass,  should  be  beaten  by  Auster.  And  yet  the  northern 
men,  being  fewer  in  number j  and  farthest  from  their  friends,  were 
overpowered  by  the  numerosity  and  nearness  of  those  of  the  south. 

Indeed,  the  northern  men  appear  rather  to  be  piitied  than  con- 
demned; in  the  whole  managing  of  the  matter,  being  only  on  the 
defensive  to  secure  themselves ;  so  that  whilst  the  others  fiercely 
and  furiously  assaulted  them,  a  great  riot  was  committed,  and  (too 
probable)  some  blood  shed.  Hereupon  the  king  issued  out  his' 
commission  of  Oyer  and  'Terminer,  November  24th,  to  three  emi- 
nent persons  ;  namely,  Giles  Argent6n,  then  living  eight  mil^s  ofi*, 
at  Horseheath,  (since  by  i^iheritance,  the  seat  of  the  ancient  i^nd 
honourable  family  of  the  Alingtons,)  Henry  de  Boreham,  and  Lau- 
rence de  Brook,  to  inquire  into  the  matter,  and  proceed  therein,  as 
they  should  see  cause,  against  the  ofiTehders. 

But,  soon  after,  the  king  was  informed  how  the  three  tforesaid 
judges  appointed  behaved  themselves  very  partially  in  the  matter : 
whereupon  the  king  took  it  out  of  their  hands,  and,  by  a  new  com- 

•  Jlotulo  Patent,  de  anno  46  Henrici  teriii,  mentbrand  23,  in  dor  so. 

Digitized  by  LibOgle 


I 


'/^ 


III 


y 
/ 
/ 


.1*",  1     -^ 


/ 


I    nWE3C?y' 


■   1 


^' 


^-% 


.^K 


§!  A^        j 


'"'-'-  v^^ 


■  -':;y/ 


EOUKBERS     OF     (COJLLKGESo 


ized  by 


Google 


v^     or  'HIE        '^    \ 

rUNIVEESITY] 


Digitized  by 


Google 


46  HENRY  III.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  23 

mission,  Febraary  11th,  referred  the  hearing  and  determining 
thereof  to  Nicholas  de  Tor  and  Nicolas  de  Handlo,  the  judges 
itinerant  of  that  Circuit.  Yet,  in  favour  of  the  scholars  who  had 
offended,  he  limited  the  proceedings  of  these  judges  with  an-— 
ita  tamm  qiiod  ad  mspendonem  loel  mutilationem  derioorum  non 
procedatis^  sed  eos  alio  modo  per  consilium  Universitatis  Oantabr, 
castigetis.* 

It  seems,  the  case  was  of  some  difficulty,  and  many  persons  of 
quality  concerned  therein,  the  deciding  whereof  was  so  often  in 
so  short  a  time  bandied  backwards  and  forwards  at  court.  For, 
few  days  after,  H.  le  Despencer,  Justiciarius  Angliw^  by  command 
from  the  king,  inhibited  the  foresaid  judges  itinerant  to  inter- 
meddle therein,  and  wholly  remitted  the  business  to  the  examina- 
tion and  determination  of  Giles  Argenton,  Henry  de  Boreham,  and 
Laurence  de  Brook,  before  whom  some  southern  scholars,  active  in 
this  riot,  were  indicted,  found  guilty,  and  condemned,  when  the 
king^s  gracious  pardon  was  sent  in  their  behalf,  in  form  as  followeth  :— 

Rex  omnibus  ad  quos  proesentes  literce  pervenerint  saiutem.^^ 
Sdatis  nos  de  gratid  nostrd  spedali  pardonasse  ma^istro  Johanni 
^  Depedale^  ma^istro  Hugoni  de  Thomham^  Bartholomeo  de 
WaMm^  Willielmo  fraPri  ejus^  Willielmo  de  Merton  garcioni 
eorum^  Willielmo  de  Wethringset^  Mich,  de  Mereforde^  Johanni 
de  Bene,  Waltero  et  Bicardo  fratrihus  ejus,  Johanni  de  Shotes- 
ham,  Ed,  de  Merston,  Waltero  de  Wodeford,  Willielmo  de  Wa- 
hume,  Nicholao  de  Brackden,  Willielmo  Saleman,  Willielmo 
de  P'ikneham,  eb  Johanni  de  Lon,  de  comitatilms  Norff,  et  8uff., 
Mogero  Parlebone^  Bartholomeo  Matelast,  Henrico  Ledwy,  Joham,ni 
de  Stohenham,  Stephano  Maymund^  Pwietto  le  Cryur,  Johanni  de 
London,  Thomm  Alnonechilde,  Roberto  de  Frassenden,  et  Galfrido 
de  Gaxton,  de  comitatu  Gantabrigiensi^  sectam  pads  nostrce  qum  ad 
nos  pertinet^  pro  insultu  nuper  facto  in  quosdam  scholar es  borecdes 
Universitatis  Cantabr.  et  pro  transgressionibiM  ibidem  factis  contra 
pacem  nostram  undo  indictati  fueruwt  coram  dilectis  et  fiddilms 
nostris  Egidio  de  Argentein,  Hen/rico  de  Borham,  et  Laurentio  del 
Broke,  quos  iliac  misimus  ad  inquisitionem  fadendam  de  trans- 
gressionibus  prcedictis,  Et  firmam  pojcem  nostram  eis  inde  concedi- 
fnus,  ita  tamen  qttod  stent  redo  si  quis  versus  eos  inde  lai  w>luerit. 
In  mjus,  Sfc.  Teste  rege  apud  Turrem  London,  jvmii.  die  Martii, 
anno  regni  nostri  quadragesimo  quinto.  + 

Ex  rotulo  patentium  de  an/no  wlv,  regis  Henrici  tertii,  membrana 
15.  in  Turre  London.-^' 

Examinatwper  Gulielmum  Byleg. 

•  Rotulo  Pat.  de  anno  46  Henrici  tertii^  memhrand  19,  in  dorso.  t  Rotulo  12. 

in  cuHod.  Thesaur,  et  Comer.  ScaeearU. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


24  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1265- 

It  seemeth  some  of  these  Anti-Boreals  were  men  of  genteel 
extraction,  especially  the  two  first,  (styled  in  the  pardon  "  mas- 
ters/?) importing,  I  believe,  more  than  the  bare  University-title : 
as  also  Bartholomet?  de  Walton,  and  William  his  brother,  because 
waited  on  by  William  de  Merton,  their  garcion^  that  is,  "  theit 
servant,**'  For  it  cometh  from  the  French  gwr^tm^  or  the  Italian 
garzone^  and  is  used  even  by  the  barbarous  Grecians  of  the  middle 
age,  y«/^ot/vjoy  vap^  Aar/voi^  to  moLillovJ*  It  was  graciously  done  of 
the  king  to  pardon  the  man  as  well  as  his  masters,  seeing  probably 
he  acted  only  by  their  pleasure  and  command. 

-  49,  50.  Northampton  University  begun,  and  dissolved. 
^.i>.  1262— 1265. 

During  .these  discords,  some  scholars  of  peaceable  disposition 
fairly  departed  Cambridge,  and  retired  to  Northampton ;  where,  by 
the  leave  arid  liking  of  the  king,  they  began  an  University.  Here 
they  met  with  many  Oxford-men,  who,  on  the  like  occasion,  had 
deserted  Oxford,  and  retreated  hither  to  study.  I  commend  their 
judgment  in  the  choice  of  so  convenient  a  place,  where  the  air  is 
clear,  yet  not  over  sharp ;  the  earth  fruitful,  yet  not  very  dirty  j 
watCT  plentiftil,  yet  far  from  any  fennish  annoyance;  and  wood 
(most  wanting  now-of-days)  conveniently  sufficient  in  that  age. 
But  the  roabi  is,  Northampton  is  near  the  centre  of  England  ;  so 
that,  all  travellers  coming  thither  from  the  remotest  parts  of  the 
land,  may  be  said  to  be  met  by  the  town  in  the  midst  of  their 
journey,  so  unpartial  is  the  situation  thereof  in  the  navel  of  the 
kingdom. 

But  this  University  never  lived  to  commence  Bachelor  of  Art ; 
Senior  Sophister  was  all  the  standing  it  attained  unto.  For,  four 
years  after,  the  king,  apprehending  that  Northampton  University 
would  be  prejudicial  to  Oxford,  near  to  which  it  lay,  within  thirty 
miles  ;  and  therefore,  as  a  true  honourer  of  antiquity,  (loath  that  a 
novice  '^tart^up  should  impair  so  ancient  a  founder,)  recalled  the 
scholars  of  Cambridge  by  these  his  ensuing  letters : — 
.  ifejr?  M^fjori  et  dvibus  suis  Northampton.  salutem.^-^Occasione 
eujfmkmfni^hw  contentionis  in  mild  Cantabrigiensi  triennio  jctm 
elapso  subortcB  nonnutti  dericortim  tunc  ibidem  studentium  unani" 
miter  ab  ip^d  villd  recessisgent,  se  usque  €td  viUdm  nostrami  pree- 
dictam  Northam,  transferentes  et  ibidem  (stvdiis  inhcerendoj 
novam  construere  Universitatem  eupientes :  Nos  iUo  tempore  ere- 
denies  villam  illam  ex  hoc  posse  meliorari,  et  nobis  utilitatem  non 
modicum  ind^  provenire,  votis  dietorum  dericortim  ad  eorum  requi- 
sitionem  annuebamus  in  hoc  parte.     Nunc  autem  cum  ex  relate 

'  SchoUattes  Ccdreni^ 

Digitized  by  VjOO^ IC 


49  BENBT  HI.  UNIVKBSITY  OF  CAMBEIDOE.  25 

muUorum  fide  dignorum  teradter  inteUeximus  quid  ex  kujuitnodi 
Unkemtate  (si  permaneret  ibidem)  munidpium  nostrum  Oxon. 
quod  ah  aniiquo  ereatum  est,  et  a  progenitaribus  nastris  regibus 
Anglim  confirmeUum,  etc  ad  eommoditaiem  studeniium  eammuniter 
approbaiumy  nan  mediocriter  lasderetiwr^  quod  nuUd  ratione  Tell&' 
mu8,  maxim^  cum  universis  episoopis  terrw  nostrce  ad  konorem  Dei 
et  utUitatem  ecdesice  Anfflicance  et  pro/ectum  studentium  videatur 
expedirey  quod  Universitas  amoveatur  a  villd  profdietdj  sieut  per 
literas  suaa  patentes  ckxsepimus.  Vobis  de  consilio  magncUum  nos- 
trorum  firmiter  inhibemus  ne  in  villd  nostrd  de  ca^tero  cdiquam 
Universitatem  esse^  nee  aliquos  studentes  ibidem  manere  permit- 
tatisy  aliter  quam  ante  creationem  dietw  Universitatis  fieri  eon- 
memt.  Teste  rege  apvd  Westmon.  primo  die  Febr.  anno  regni 
quadragesimo  nono.  + 

Ex  roifdo  daus.  de  anno  xlix.  regis  Henrici  tertiiy  membr.  10  in 
dorso  in  Turre  London. 

ExaminatcB  per  GtdieHmum  Bgleg. 

There  is  still  in  Northampton  a  place  called  the  College ;  but 
whether  in  relation  to  these  students,  I  know  not.  Sure  it  is, 
that  on  the  king's  letters  patents  Northampton  was  un-universi- 
tied,  the  scholars  therein  returning  to  the  place  from  whence  they 
came. 

51,  52.   Mr.  Brian   Twyne  justly  condemned,  for  injecting 
causeless  Suspicions. 

Here  I  can  hold  no  longer,  but  must  fall  out  (and  be  the  reader 
the  judge  betwixt  us)  with  Mr.  Brian  Twyne,  the  writer  of 
Oxford  Antiquities.  I  honour  him  as  an  industrious  though  no 
'  methodical  antiquary,  his  book  being  rather  a  heap  than  a  pile.  I 
comnaend  his  affection  to  his  mother,  had  it  been  without  detraction 
to  his  aunt;  and  his  example  shall  quicken  my  duty  in  my  filial 
relation  where. I  owe  the  same.  Lastly:  Because  he  is  (and  I 
know  not  how  soon  I  may  be)  dead,  I  shall  deal  the  more  mildly 
with  him.  '  For,  he  that  falls  heavy  on  a  ghost  or  shadow,  will,  in 
fine,  give  the.  greatest  blow  and  bruise  unto  himself.  Yet  some- 
thing must  be  said  against  him  in  vindication  of  the  truth. 

First.  On  all  occasions,  he  is  buzzing  jealousies  into. the  heads  of 
the  readers,  to  shake  the  credit  cff.such  authorjSj  wha  wjil^:any  thing 
in  the  honour  of  Cambridge.  Thus,  when  Matthew;  Parker,  arch- 
bishop of  Canterbury,  reports  how  many  deserting  Oxford  fenioved 
to  Cambridge,  he  .squibs*in,  this  parenthesis,  (Si  iUis  standum  sit 
Historiis  quas  Mat^cmis  Parker,  Cant.  Archi.  edidit,'^)  dashing  as 
much  as  lieth  in  his  power  the  unstained  reputation  of  those  his 

*  jipoiogia  Academioi  Oxon.  lib.  iii.  page  279, 

Digitized  by  CjOOQ IC 


26  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1266. 

worthy  endeavours.  And  again,  speaking  of  the  same  archbishop^s 
setting-forth  of  Matthew  Paris,  he  squirts-in  this  passage,  Si  vera 
sit  Matthcd  Cant,  editio*  suggesting  some  suspicion  of  falsehood 
and  forgery  in  the  same.  Such  ifs  against  great  persons  are  more 
than  IFS  ;  and  such  suspicions,  if  they  be  not  scandala  mcignatis 
against  so  great  a  peer,  cannot  be  less  than  breach  of  canonical 
obedience  against  the  memory  of  so  grave  and  godly  a  prelate : 
especially  seeing  neither  Twyne  himself,  (with  all  the  help  of 
Oxford-library,)  nor  all  the  world,  could  ever  since  find  any  fault 
in  that  edition,  as  faithfully  agreeing  with  the  most  authentic 
manuscripts. 

53.  His  needless  Caul  confuted. 

But  these  his  slanting  and  suppositive  [remarks]  are  nothing  to 
his  direct  and  downright  traducing  of  the  records  of  Cambridge. 
Take  him  in  his  own  Latin  words,  which  I  have  translated  to  this 
purpose,  that  such  ingenuous  Englishman,  never  bred  in  either 
University,  (and  therefore  the  more  unpartial  judges,)  but  under- 
standing the  strength  of  common  sense  and  reason,  may  indifferently 
umpire  the  matter,  and  find  the  verdict,  as  they  shall  hear  things 
dleged  and  proved. 

Non  ignoro  tamen  in  Memorabilibus  Universitatis  Oxan.  a 
Roberto  Ha/ro  collectis,  unde  hano  chartam  desumpsi^  in  exordio 
diplomatis^  Cantahrigim  mentionem  fieri^  quasi  et  ilia  contentio 
triennio  turn  elapso  Cantabrigioe  non  Oxonice  a^cddisset^  et  nova 
Universitas  ea  Northamptonensis  a  Cantabrigiensibus  non  Oxonien- 
sibus  fuisset  inchoata.  Earn  tamen  lectionem  si  nihil  aliudy  certe 
adulterata  ipsivs  vods  CANTABRiGiiE  loco  OxoNiiE  «crf/>^wra,-f- 
et  ckaractere  a  cceteris  dissimillimo  et  toto  exarandi  genere  diverse^ 
corrvptissimam  prodit :  Ubi  enim  occurrit,  anno  Dom.  1246,  apvd 
bonos  et  vettistw  fidei  autores^  tantas  fuisse  Cantabrigioe  discordias^ 
quce  studmtes  NortAamptoniam  arcerentf — Brian  Twyne,  Anti- 
quitatis  Academiw  Oxoniensis  Apologia,  libro  iii.  pagind  280, 
numero  76. 

"  Yet  I  am  not  ignorant,  that  in  the  memorables  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Oxford,  collected  by  Robert  Hare,  whence  I  have  taken  this 
charter,  in  the  beginning  of  the  patent  there  is  mention  made  of 
Cambridge,  as  if  this  contention  had  happened  three  years  since,  at 
Cambridge,  and  not  at  Oxford,  and  that  new  University  at  North- 
ampton begun  of  Cambridge-  not  of  Oxford-men.  Yet,  if  nothing 
else,  truly  the  adulterated  writing  of  the  word  Cambridge  instead 
of  Oxford,  and  in  a  character  most  unlike  from  the  rest,  and 
different  in  the  whole  kind  for  the  fashion  thereof,  betrayeth  it  to 

•  Apologia  Acadfimice  Oxon.  lib.  iii.  page  280,  f  Mendum  in  transcripto  Roberti 

^ri. — Twyne  in  the  margin. 


Digit 


IzedbyLiOOgle 


49  HEMir  HI.  UNIVSR8ITT  OF  CAMULIDOE.  27 

be  most  corrapied.  For  where  do  we  find,  that,  in  the  yeir  of  our 
Lord  1246,  amongst  good  aathois  and  of  ancient  &ith,  there  were 
so  grot  discords  in  Cambridge  as  to  drire  the  students  to  North- 
ampton?" 

Here  is  too  mnch  for  me  to  manage  at  once  :  we  will  parcel  it, 
for  the  more  efiectoal  examination  thereof,  this  being  the  fiist  time 
that  I  haye  to  do  with  this  adyentmrons  author.  We  know  that  if 
a  merehant^s  bill  be  once  protested  against  in  the  Exchange,  he  will 
scarce  ever  after  recoyer  his  credit ;  and  if  at  first  we  can  discover 
the  fiilsehood  of  this  onr  adversary,  it  will  for  ever  give  a  mortal 
wound  to  his  reputation,  and  ease  us  of  much  trouble  hereafter. 

54—56.  Quid  Eyet  to  find  a  FauU  %ck&re  none  is.  Amtter  tAis 
Dilenma.     The  Tower  Becordi  clear  the  Cavil. 

First.  He  mentioneth  Oxford  monuments  tmnscribed  by  Robert 
Hare.  This  Hare  was  an  Esquire  of  good  woisbip  and  wealth,  a 
great  lover  and  preserver  (properties  never  parted)  of  antiquities. 
He  carefully  collected  the  precious  monuments  of  both  Univer- 
sities, caused  them  fiiirly  to  be  transcribed,  and  freely  bestowed  a 
duplicate,  or  double  copy,  on  each  of  them ;  a  gift  worthy  the  giver 
and  the  receiver,  as  of  no  less  cost  and  pains  to  the  one,  than  credit 
and  profit  to  the  other.  Now,  it  seems  Brian  Twyne,  with  his 
piercing  sight,  is  the  Columbus,  who,  by  **  the  different  character,'* 
hath  discovered  a  new  (not  tcorld^  but)  ttardy  namely,  Cambridge, 
in  the  king's  letter  to  Northampton,  put  instead  of  Oxford.  This 
he  calls  (as  well  he  may)  mendum,  "  a  fault,''  in  Hare's  transcript, 
which  indeed  was  a  fiilsehood;  and,  if  wilfully  done, .  a  forgery; 
and,  the  doer  tiiereof,  if  detected,  deserving  to  be  pilloried  for  his 
pain. 

But  when  and  how,  I  pray,  came  this  "Cambridge"  to  be  surrep- 
titiously inserted  (instead  of  "Oxford")  into  that  transcript  of  Harte  ? 
Was  it  done  by  himself,  or  some  other,  originally?  I  mean, 
before  those  manuscripts  were  bestowed  on  the  University.  To 
allow  this  were  to  offer  an  injury  to  the  honesty  or  vigilancy  of  that 
worthy  antiquary.  Or,  was  the  fiJse  inscription  made  cunningly  by 
some  Cambridge-man,  since  those  manuscripts  came  into  the  po8« 
session  of  Oxford  ?  If  so,  shame  on  the  careless  keepers  of  so 
precious  a  treasure  !  I  presume  our  muniments  at  Cambridge  are 
more  safely  preserved. 

I  pass  not  what  is  or  is  not  written  in  Hare's  transcript.  He 
that  may  with  as  much  ease  go  to  the  fountain,  and  yet  will  drink 
of  the  dirty  river,  deserveth  no  pity,  if  choked  (or  rather,  if  choking 
himself)  with  the  mud  thereof.  I  appeal  to  the  Records  of  the 
Tower  of  London,  whence  Hare's  writings  were  copied  out ;  which 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ IC 


28  BISTORT  OF  THE  a.d.  1266. 

are  the  author  of  anthors  for  English  history,  because,  1.  They  may 
be  said  to  have  lived  in  the  time  and  place  wherein  all  things  are 
acted.  2.  They  are  impartial ;  not,  osier-like,  bowing  to  any 
interest;  but  standing  like  a  firm  pillar,  to  support  the  truth.. 
3.  They  are  safely  preserved :  and  long  may  they  be,  in  defiance 
of  barbarous  anarchy,  which  otherwise  would  make  a  bonfire,  or  new 
light,  of  those  precious  monuments. 

I  say,  I  repaired  to  the  Records  in  the  Tower ;  where  I  searched 
for,  and  found  out,  the  afor^aid  king^s  letter,  by  us  lately  exempli- 
fied, that  the  troubles  of  Cambridge,  three  years  since,  were  the 
cause  of  the  founding  of  the  University  at  Northampton.  This 
letter  I  got  transcribed,  compared,  attested  by  Mr.  William 
Ryley,  the  elder,  keeper  of  those  Records,  and  Norroy  King  of 
Arms  ;  who,  like  a  prince  indeed,  fireely  gave  me  his  pains,  which  I 
commend  to  the  reader'^s  thankful  notice ;  because,  otherwise,  I 
must  have  charged  the  cost  on  his  account,  raising  the  rate  of  my 
book,  to  make  myself  a  saver  thereby. 

57,  58.  A  needless  Question  declined.     Why  Oxford  more  pryvr- 
diced  than  Cambridge  by  Northampton  University. 

But  our  adversary  proceeds,  and  demandeth  where  we  read  "  in 
any  good  author,  that  in  the  year  1246  such  discords  happened  at 
Cambridge  as  should  drive  the  scholars  to  Northampton  ?  ^  We 
answer :  First.  We  Cambridge-men  are  not  ambitious  of  such  dis« 
cords  ;  let  us  but  retain  the  scholars,  and  let  any  place  that  pleaseth 
take  those  differences  to  themselves.  Secondly.  We  never  said, 
nor  thought,  that  such  broils  ^ere  ip  Cambridge,  €umo  1246 ;  but 
this  we  affinn,  that  three  years  since,  namely,  in  the  forty-sixth  of 
Henry  III.*  (which  falls  out  to  be  the  year  of  our  Lord  1262,) 
cruel  bickerings  were  betwixt  the  northern  and  southern  men  in  our 
University,  (and,  perchance,  the  like  might  be  by  secret  sympathy 
in  Oxford,)  which,  as  we  have  proved  before,  caused  the  departure 
of  many  to  Northampton. 

Some  will  say,  "  Seeing  only  mention  is  made  in  the  king^s 
letters  to  null  Northampton  University,  because  probable  to  prove 
prejudicial  to  Oxford;  it  seems  thereby  that  Cambridge  at  this 
time  was  not  considerable,  at  leastwise,  the  king  not  so  careM  for 
the  preservation  thereof  It  is  answered.  The  erection  of  a  Uni- 
versity at  Northampton,  by  reason  of  the  position  of  the  place, 
must  needs  be  a  greater  hurt  to  Oxford  than  hinderance  to  Cam- 
bridge :  for  Cambridge  lieth  conveniently  for  the  north  and  east 
parts;  Oxford,  commodiously  for  the  south  and  west  parts,  of 
England.    Now,  Northampton,  lying  within  twenty-nine  scruples 

•  A  lialf-yeaT  over  or  mider  breaks  no  squares. 

'  Digitized  by  LjOOQIC 


49  HBHftY  III.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  29 

of  the  same  degree  of  longitude  with  Oxford,  would  almost  share 
equally  widi  Oxford  in  the  western  division  of  the  land,  whilst 
Cambridge  quarters  (as  on  the  other  side  of  the  kingdom)  would  be 
clear,  and  little  prejudiced  thereby.  But  enough  hereof.  We 
proceed  in  our  history. 


SECTION  II. 


REVEREin>IS8IM0    ANTISTITI 


JACOBO  USSERIO,  ARCHIEPISCOPO  ARMACHANO, 
•  DOMINO  SUO  COLENDISSIMO. 

Cum  mihi  Camdeni  Britanniam  perlegenti  locus  * 
occurreret,  ubi  meminit  Jacobi  Usserii,  (tunc  Cancel- 
larii  Sancti  Patricii  DublinensiSi)  supra  aetatem  docti, 
variis  de  causis  me  prim^m  invasit,  tandem  absorpsit 
admiratio, — qu6d  tua  indoles  tantilm  festinaret,  qu& 
juvenis  id  assecutus  es  quod  vel  vtris  paucissimis 
datur ; — qu6d,  ciim  communis  querela  sit,  "  optima 
ingenia  minimfe  diurnare,"  tu,  Dei  favore,  adhuc  super- 
stes  es,  quinquaginta  annis,  a  quo  hoc  Camdeniano 
elogio  decoratus  fuisti; — qu6d  (Caleb  alter  nostri 
seculi)  tibi  hucusque  judicium  firmum,  ingenium  vivi- 
duoi,  memoria  tenax,  animus  integer ; — utinam  idem 
licuisset  de  corpusculo  tuo  dicere,  quod  nimiis  studiis 
maceratum  senio  aliquantulum  cedere  incipit. 

At  adhuc  superest  summus  admirationis  meae  gra- 
dus,  tua  in  tantS.  eruditione  suspicienda  humilitas,  cilm 
fere  fit,  ut  illi  omnes,  quibus  aliquid  inest  sublime  et 
praecellens  protin&s  inflentur,  et  alios  facile  contem- 
nant ;  dum  tu  tenuitatem  meam  favore  tuo  beasti,  in 
quft  nihil  quod  alliceret,  plurima  quae  te  depellerent. 

Fateor  sanfe  me  beneficiis  tuis  ita  obrui,  ut  ne  respi- 
randi  copia  concedatur,  qu&  gratias  meas  possim  expri- 
mere.  Quoties  enim  mihi,  vel  legenti,  vel  scribenti, 
vel  concionanti  nodus  incident,  tu  certissimus  vindex, 

•  Qui  annos  varid  docHnd  etjudicio  longi  superat.    Page  752. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


30  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1269. 

quern  ss^pius  accessi  turbidus,  tortus,  perplexus,  nun- 
quam  reliqui  nisi  solutus  et  expeditus. 

At  omnium  beneficiorum  tuorum  caput  est,  quod 
pretiosa  xs*/*;{xja,  (quibus  vel  sestimandis  me  imparem 
confiteor,)  non  rogatus,  sponte  communicasti ;  ita,  ut 
omnia  rariora  Historia  nostra  accepta  ferat  tuae  munifi- 
centiae. 

In  hac  nostrft  dedicatione  non  eousque  impudentiae 
processi,  ut  vel  somniarem  me  aliquid  proferre  posse 
tuS,  dignatione  dignum  ;  sed  me  ambire  fateor,  ut  lux 
inoccidua  nominis  tui  libro  meo  prsefulgeajp  quo 
Cantabrigiae  primordia  (non  qua  Academia,  sed  qua 
ornata  Collegiis,  instructa  reditibus)  continentur. 

Mihi  sanfe  saepius  doluit,  quod  tu,  venerande  praesul, 
Cantabrigiae  non  fuisti  educatus,  et  tantum  decus  matri 
meae  ereptum  me  malfe  habuit.  Lenivit  vero  dolorem, 
c&m  mecum  opportune  recolerem,  quod  ipsa  Academia 
Dublinensis  sit  Cantabrigiades,  (quasi  colonia  deducta 
e  coUegio  Sanctae  Trinitatis,)  quo  nomine  nostra  alma 
mater  te,  licfet  non  filium,  nepotem  tamen,  sibi  summo 
jure  vendicat. 

Vale,  reverendissime  in  Christo  Pater,  qui,  licet 
miles  emeritus,  indies  tamen  de  ecclesia  optime  ultra 
mereri  non  desinis.  Sanitati  tuae  quseso  consulas,  c&m 
nihil  sit  certius  quam  quod  tanto  auctius  commodum 
orbi  Christiano  est  accessurum,  quanto  tu  serius  in 
coelum  es  rediturus. 

1 — 3.  The  King's  Intentions  to  fortify  Cambridge.  Ditch  made  : 
Walk  meant.  Cambridge  plundered  on  the  King's  Departure. 
A.D.  1266. 

Heavy  were  the  times  now,  and  tumultuous,  betwixt  the  king 
and  his  barons;  mutually  taking  cities  and  castles  one  from 
another.  The  king,  therefore,  came  to  Cambridge,  (the  pass  out  of 
the  west  into  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,)  resolving  to  fortify  the  same. 
Indeed,  we  find  some  ancient  writings  which  may  probably  in$inuate 
Cambridge  to  be  walled,  time  out  of  mind :  as  where  we  read  in  a 
charter  of  privileges  granted  to  the  town,  Extra  muros  hurgi  de 
Cantabrig,     Except  some  will  be  so  morose  to  expound  it  only  the 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


fiSHEHBriii.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDOK.  -  31 

vails  of  private  houses  therein.  However,  at  the  present,  luch 
walls  (if  any)  are  utterly  decayed. 

The  north-west  part  of  Cambridge  beyond  the  river  (fonnerly 
briber  extended  than  now-of-days)  the  king  found  sufficiently 
secured  by  an  impregnable  castle.  The  west  side  of  the  town  was 
competently  fenced  with  the  river,  anciently  (before  all  endeavours 
of  draining  the  fens)  wider  and  deeper  than  now  it  is.  Only  the 
south  and  east  of  the  town  lay  open,  which  the  king  intended  to 
fortify.  In  order  whereunto,  he  built  two  gates, — Trumpington- 
gate,  by  St.  Peter's  church,  now  ruined,  on  the  south  ;  Bam  well- 
gate,  by  St.  Andrew's  church,  now  decayed,  on  the  east.  And 
because  gates  without  walls  are  but  compliments  in  matter  of 
strength,  he  intended  to  wall  the  town  about,  if  time  had  permitted 
him.*  Mean  while  he  drew  a  deep  ditch  (called  King's-ditch  at  this 
day)  round  about  the  south  and  east  parts  of  Cambridge. 

Presently  news  is  brought  to  him,  that  Gilbert  earl  of  Clare  had 
seized  on  the  chief  city  of  the  realm.  No  policy  for  the  king  to 
keep  Cambridge,  and  lose  London  the  while.  Thither  marched  he 
in  all  haste  with  his  army,  and  may  be  said  to  carry  the  walls 
of  Cambridge  away  with  him,  the  design  thereof  sinking  at  his 
departure.  Immediately  after  the  king  was  gone  away,  one  Hast- 
ings, a  bold  rebel,  finding,  be-like,  the  new  ditch  ill-manned, 
forced  his  passage  over  it,  burned  part,  spoiled  all  the  rest,  of  the 
town  of  Cambridge.  Ner  have  I  aught  else  to  observe  of  this 
King's-ditch,  save  that,  in  our  fathers'  days,  filled  up  with  filth  and 
mire,  what  was  made  for  the  fortifying,  became  a  great  annoying,  of 
the  University ;  until  some  fifty  years  since,  partly  at  the  cost  of 
Dr.  James  Mountague,  Master  of  Sidney's  College,  afterwards 
bishop  of  Winchester,  a  rivulet  was  let  into  the  same ;  so  not  only 
clearing  it,  but  turning  the  annoyance  into  a  great  conveniency  of 
water  to  some  Colleges,  and  to  the  town  in  general. 

4—6.  Necton^  first  Carmelite  Doctor  in  Divinity.     Why  Carmel- 
ites at  first  would  not  Commence.    Necton  first  breaks  the  Ice^ 
and  others  follow  in  his  Track.     A.D.  1269. 
Humphrey  Necton  about  this  time  left  Cambridge, — the  first 

Carmelite  who  took  on  him  the  degree  of  doctorship,  as  Leland 

himself  attesteth : — 

-  Ijaudibus  Hwmphredwm  Necton  super  cistra  t  /eremus, 

Cut  data  Grantana  laurea  prima  schoke. 
<*  Above  the  skies  let 's  Humphrey  Necton  praise ; 
For  on  him  first  Cambridge  conferred  the  bays  : " 

that  is,  made  him  Doctor  in  Divinity. 

*Liber  Bamwellentis,  Polydorus  Virgilius,  et  Leland.         t  fitter  *<£elebremus 

opirnis," 


Digitized  by 


Google 


32  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1270. 

True  it  is,  these  Cannelites,  at  tbeir  first  coining  hither,  scru- 
pled the  acceptance  of  any  academical  degree,  as  having  a  secular 
-  smack  therein,  part  of  the  pomp  and  vanity  of  the  world,  and 
therefore  inconsistent  with  the  holiness  and  humility  of  men  of  their 
mortified  profession.  Besides,  this  Oi-der  particularly  pretends  to 
wear  on  their  shoulders  a  scapulary,  being  a  narrow  piece  of  cloth 
hanging  down  before  and  behind ;  the  first  of  which  fashion  the 
Virgin  Mary  personally  presented  to  one  of  their  Society,  with  this 
compliment :  "  Receive  this,  my  beloved,  which  I  give  unto  thy 
Order,  in  sign  of  my  fellowship."  *  And  hence  it  is  that  Carmelites 
call  themselves  "  Brethren  of  the  Order  of  the  blessed  Virgin  Mary 
of  Mount  Carmel.*"  Except  therefore  a  Carmelite  could  actually 
commmee  an  angel,  he  is  a  loser  by  his  Degree,  which  in  effect  is 
but  a  degradation  unto  him.  Besides,  to  wear  a  hood  or  habit  of  a 
Doctorate  over  the  holy  scapulary  aforesaid,  what  were  it  else  but 
preposterously  to  place  earth  above  heaven  ?  These  considerations 
(weighty  no  doubt !)  made  the  Carmelites  for  some  time  demur  to 
the  taking  of  any  degree  in  Divinity. 

However,  Humphrey  Necton  first  took  heart,  and^  ten  years  ago, 
namely,  1259,  commenced  Doctor  under  William  de  Ludham,  then 
Chancellor  of  Cambridge.  Here  he  flourished  many  years,  (and 
now  went  to  Norwich,  where  he  died,  anno  1203,  having  been 
forty-four  years  Doctor,)  especially  after  king  Edward  erected  and 
endowed  a  convent  for  Carmelites  in  MilKstreet  in  this  University, 
since  turned  into  Queen^s  College  and  Catherine  Hall. 

7,  8.  Oayford'*8  Antiquary  justly  taxed.  Petrus  Blwsenm  to  be 
believed  before  Brian  Twyne. 
The  antiquary  of  Oxford  discovereth  envy  or  ignorance,  or  both, 
when,  speaking  of  Lelatid's  verses  on  Necton''s  commencing,  [he] 
saith,  Q,uod  ego  certi  de  sud  seetd  rum  intdligo^  quasi  primus  stuas 
%ect€B  CarmditicoB  gradum  iUum  suscepissety  sed  qu>€m  simpliciter  et 
absolute  primus  y  "As  if  he  had  not  been  the  first  Commencer  of  his 
Order,  but  absolutely  the  first  that  ever  took  the  degree  of  Doctor- 
ship  in  Cambridge  : " — contrary  to  the  express  testimony  of  learned 
authors  herein.f 

John  Bale,  De  Soriptoribus  Britdnn.  page  312,  originally  a 
Carmelite  in  Norwich,  (and  therefore  knowing  in  the  men  and 
matters  of  his  own  Order,)  informeth  us,  that  "  Humphrey  Necton, 
a  Suffolk-man  by  birth,  and  Carmelite  by  Order^  egs  omni  sua 
factione  primus  (tandem)  fuit^  qui  Theologicvs  Doctor  sit  effecttts^ 
JouN  Pits,  De  Anglic.  Soriptoribus,  page  388,*an  Oxford-man 

«See  W BAYER'S  '*  Fundral  Montunents."  t  Brian  Twyne,  Apologia  Aca^. 

demia  Oxon,  lib.  iii.  paga  374. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


54  RSiTRT  III.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDOE.  33 

bj  education,  (and  therefore  his  testimony  not  to  be  refused  by  the 
Oxford  antiquary,)  acquainteth  ns,  that  the  said  **  Necton,  Canta- 
hryicB  Ordinis  $ui  omnium  primus  crmtus  ed  ianctw  Theologico 
Doctor  r  "  was  the  first  of  his  Order  made  Doctor  in  Divinity.^ 

This  Necton  was  afterwards  public  Professor  in  Cambridge,  and 
set  forth  a  book  which  he  termed  his  Leciuras  Schokuticas. 

Now,  although  patience  be  a  principal  virtue  amongst  all  those 
which  Cambridge  professeth  and  practisetb,  yet  can  she  not  but 
complain  of  [the]  Oxford  antiquary^s  injurious  dealing  herein,  in 
making  her  solemnity  of  graduation  then  first  to  begin.  The  best  is, 
Petrus  Blsesensis,  who  wrote  in  the  reign  of  king  Henry  II. 
almost  one  hundred  years  before  Necton^s  birth,  sufficiently  cleareth 
this  point,  and  confuteth  this  cavil,  when  affirming,  that,  in  his 
time,  Cambridge  did  make  glad  the  church  of  God  and  all  England 
perplurimos  Magistros  Doetoresque  inde  fxeunte$.^ 

9.  Toumamenta  again  forbidden.   A.D.  12/0. 

Notwithstanding  the.  frequency  of  disasters  formerly  mentioned, 
Cambridge  quickly  outgrew  her  miseries,  much  indebted  therein  to 
the  care  and  courtesy  of  the  king.  Amongst  many  of  his  royal 
boons,  this  not  the  least,  that,  in  favour  of  the  scholars,  he  now 
renewed  his  former  letters,  to  prohibit  any  tiltings  or  tournaments 
to  be  kept  within  five  miles  of  Cambridge,  according  to  the  tenor 
following  :— 

Bex  omnibus  ad  quos  pra^sentes  literw  pertenerint^  salutem.^^ 
Quia  dilectis  nobis  in  Christo  magistris  et  cwteris  seholaribus  Uni^ 
Tersitatis  Cantabr.  per  comites^  barones^  milites  et  alios^  tomea* 
menta  ibidem  exercentes^  aventuras  quwrentes^  et  ad  arma  eunteSy 
frequentibus  solent  pericula  et  inoommodu  muUiplidter  evenire^  quas 
si  tolerarentur  in  disddium  ibidem  gtudentium  per  procesmm  tem^ 
poris  cedere  possint  manifestij  quod  sustinere  nolumue  siout  nee 
debemfis :  Nos  indemnitati  magistrorum  et  scholarium  Tolentes  in 
hacparte,  quatenvs  fieri  poterit^  provider e^  coTicessimus  eis  degratid 
nostra  speciali  quod  tomeamenta  aliqua,  a/denturoB^  justoe^  seu 
hujusmodi  hastiludia  non  fia/nt  de  ccetero  in  tilld  predictd  seu  per 
quinque  milliaria  eircumqu^que,  Et  prohibemm  sub  gratemforis^ 
factvflram  nostram^  ne  quis  de  regno  nostro  apud  mllam  prcedietam 
seu  alibi  infra  prcedicta  quinque  milliaria  vircumqu(zque  tomeare^ 
justas  facere  seu  aventuras^  vd  alia  hastiludia  quwrere  proesumaty 
contra  concessionem  nostram  prcedietam.  In  cujus  rei  testimonium 
has  literas  nostras  fieri  fedmus  patentes.  Teste  meipso  apud 
Westmon.  xxiv.  die  Julii^  anno  regni  nostri  quinquagesimo  quarto.-); 

*  In  jippencUce  ad  Ingulphum  Crowlandensem*         t  E*  Rottdo  Pateniium  de  anno 
quinquageHmo  quarto  regis  Henrici  III.  numero  330  in  Tvrre  London, 

/Google 


Digitized  by  ^ 


S4  HISTORY  OF  THB  a.d.  1376. 

lU.  Prince  Edward  ordereih  an  Affreemeni  betwem  the  8ckokr% 
and  Townsmen. 
The  same  year  prince  Edward  came  to  Cambridge ;  one  no  less 
fortunate  in  peace  than  victorious  in  war.  Here  he  understood, 
that  frequent  differences  did  arise  betwixt  the  scholars  and  towns- 
men :  for  the  fixture  preventing  whereof,  he  caused  an  instrument  to 
be  drawn  up,  and  three  seals  annexed  unto  it ;  namely,  his  own,  and 
the  public  seals  of  the  University  and  town  of  Cambridge.  Herein 
it  was  agreed  betwixt  them^  that  once  every  year,  (namely,  after 
Michaelmas,  when  the  Masters  resumed  their  lectures,)  five  discreet 
scholars  should  be  chosen  out  of  the  counties  of  England,  three 
Scottishmen,  two  Welshmen,  three  Irishmen,  thirteen  in  all ;  who, 
joined  with  ten  burgesses,  (seven  out  of  the  town,  and  three  out  of 
the  suburbs,)  should  see  that  the  peace  was  faithfully  kept  betwixt 
all  the  students  and  inhabitants.  By  "  suburbs "  here  we  unde^ 
stand  so  much  of  the  town  as  was  left  out  of  the  line  of  the  Kings- 
ditch,  which,  to  make  it  the  shorter  and  stronger,  took  not  in  the 
straggling  streets  beyond  the  gates. 

11.  No  University  a$  yet  in  Scotland  and  Ireland. 
For  as  yet,  and  for  some  succeeding  ages,  no  University  in 
Ireland.  And  although  some  forty  years  after,  (namely,  anno 
1320^)  Alexander  Bicknor,  archbishop  of  Dublin,  obtained  of  the 
pope  privileges  for  an  University,  and  erected  lectures  at  Dublin ; 
yet  presently  the  troublesome  times  frustrated  so  good  a  design,  till 
towards  the  end  of  the  reign  of  queen  Elizabeth.  As  for  Scotland, 
it  was  University-less  till  Laurence  Lundoris  and  Richard  Corvel, 
Doctors  of  civil  Law,  first  professed  learning  at  St.  Andrew's,  some 
hundred  years  after :  till  which  time  the  Scottish  youth  repaired  to 
Cambridge  and  Oxford  for  their  education,  as  their  bishops  did  to 
York  for  consecration,  till  they  got  an  archbishop  of  their  own,  in 
tike  reign  of  king  Edward  IV. 

12.  Cambridge  receives  all  Countries. 
See  we  now  Cambridge  an  University  indeed,  1.  By  the  univer- 
sality studiorum  ,*  not  confined  (as  in  grammar-schools)  to  one 
feculty,  but  extended  to  the  generality  of  arts.  2.  By  the  univer- 
sality studmtivm ;  not  restrained  to  one  country  or  kingdom,  but 
admitting  foreigners  as  well  as  natives.  So  that  Brian  Twyne 
might  well  have  omitted  his  needless  and  truthless  marginal  note : 
Cantabriffiense  studium  Henrici  tertii  temporibus  taldi  fiiit  obscu- 
rum,  si  ullum.* 

•  Ub,  m.  page  270. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


4  BDWABO  I.  UNIVERglTY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  35 

13.  A  OompariHan  betwixt  the  Univenity  of  Cambridge  and  the 
Archdeacon  of  My.    4  Edwaid  I.    A.D.  12/6. 

Now  began  some  differences  between  the  scbolars  in  the  Uniter- 
sity  and  the  archdeacon  of  Ely,  who  summoned  them  nnto  his 
courts,  and  by  virtue  of  his  office  would  have  proceeded  against 
tbem  for  non-appearance.  The  scholars  denied  any  subjection  due 
unto  him ;  and,  after  a  hot  contest,  both  sides  referred  themselves 
to  Hugh  Balsham,  bishop  of  Elj,  who  decided  the  controversy  as 
followeth  :— 

Uniterm  Chrieti  fidelibue  prcesenfee  literas  inspeduris^  Hugo 
Dei  grata  MieTisie  episeoptu  ealutem  in  Domino. — Ad  Unirersi- 
tatis  testrce  notitiam  tenore  prceeentium  tolumus  pereenire^  qudd  no$ 
affectantes  tranquiUitatem  et  pacem  Unitemtatie  nostrce  Cantabr. 
regentium  et  eeholarium  studentium  in  eddem^  volenteeque  ut  tarn 
archidicusonus  nost&r  Eliensie  circa  eibi  subditoe  quctm  canceUariue 
Unitergitatie  ejusdem  circa  scholares  euos  ita  juriedictionem  suam 
separatim  exerceant^  ut  uterque  sua  jure  contetitue  non  ueurpet 
alienum :  ad  petitionem  et  instantiam  prcpfati  archidiaconi^  nostri 
cdnceUarii^  et  magi^rcrum  Unitersitatie  prcodictorum^  (ab  utrAque 
parte  nobis  traditis  artieuUs,)  ad  cpternam  ret  gestce  memoriam 
mper  his  ordinamus  infra  scripta. 

Inprimis  tolumus  et  ordinamus  quod  magister  glomerioe  Cant, 
qui  pro  tempore  fuerit^  audiat  et  decidat  unitersas  glomereUorum 
ex  parte  red  existentium^  volentes  in  hoc  parte  prcrfatum  magistrum 
eodem  privilegio  gaudere  quod  habent  cceteri  magistri  de  scholaribus 
suis  de  ccmsis  eorum  deddendis.  Ita  qudd  sive  sint  scholares  sive 
laid  qui  glomereUos  velint  eontenire^  vel  aliquid  ab  eis  petere^  per 
tiam  judicialis  indaginis^  hoc  faciat  coram  magistro  glomerice^  ad 
quern  decemimus  hujusmodi  causce  conditionem  tpectare  plena  jwre. 
Nisi  hujusmodi  causce  cognifio  sit  de  pensionibus  domorum  per 
magistros  et  burgenses  taxatarum^  tel  de  facinoris  enormis  emden^ 
tid^  ubi  requiritur  incarcerationis  poena  vel  ab  Universitate  pri* 
tatios  In  his  enim  casibus  et  non  aliis  respondeant  glomereUi 
coram  cancellario  cuilibet  qtierelantiy  qui  jurisdictionem  suam  exer^ 
tet  in  his  sicut  est  alids  observatum.  8i  verd  magister  glomerice 
cognoscat  inter  scholarem  actorem  et  ghmereUum  reum^  et  contigerit 
appeUari  ab  interlocutorid  tel  a  diffinitivd  sententid^  volumus  et 
ordinamus  quod  ad  cancellarium  appeUetmr^  qui  in  ipsd  causd 
appeUationis  procedat  secundum  ordinem  observatum^  cum  ab  alio 
magistro  regente  et  de  dicta  causd  sui  seholaris  cognoscente  ab  alter- 
utrd  partium  ad  cancellarium  appellatur.  De  eausis  verd  glome- 
rellorum  inter  se,  et-  laicorum  et  ghmerelhrum^  canceUariue  in 
nulla  intermittaty  nisi  causa  sit  de  pensione  domorum  taxatarum^ 
rel  de  enormitate  delicti  ut  superius  est  expressum. 

D    2  Digitized  by  LjOOQIC 


36  HISTORY  OF  THK  a.d.  1276. 

Et  quia  in  statutis  Unitersitatis  Tidimm  contineri  quod  duo 
bedelli  Universitatis  intersint  mrgam  deferentes  omnibus  vesperis^ 
pritieipiis^  contentibusy  de/unctorum  exequiis^  et  omnibus  aliis  con- 
vocationibuSy  nullo  alio  in  prcejudicio  eorum  mrgam  delaturo^  prcB- 
cipimu8  quod  bedeUus  ghmeriw  in  prwdictis  convocationibus  et 
locis  coram  cancdlario  et  magistris  virgam  non  def&rat.  In  aliis 
autem  locis  qitandocunque  et  ubicunque  voluerit  et  maxim^  pro 
expeditione  sui  officii  virgam  libere  deferat  licenter  et  quiete. 

Et  quia  in  statutis  Universitatis  ejusdem  inter  alia  co7itinetury 
quod  familia  scholarium^  scriptores  et  alii  officia  ad  usum  scholar- 
rium  tantiim  dqmtata  exercentes^  eddem  immunitate  et  libertate 
gaudeant  qud  et  scholares^  ut  coram  archidiacono  non  respondeant 
sicuti  nee  schola/res  qui  sunt  eorum  domini.  Hoc  ita  tenore  prcBsen-^ 
tium  declaramuSy  quod  in  hoc  casu  nomine  familioB  solummodo  iwlu- 
mus  contineri  mancipia  scAolarium  in  domibus  cum  eis  commorantia 
dum  personcditer  deserviunt  scholaribtis  antedictis.  Item  nomine 
scriptorum  et  aliorum  officia  ad  usum  schola/rium  tantHm  deputata 
exercentium^  'oolumvs  inteUigi  de  scriptoribus^  illuminatoribus^  et 
stationariis  qui'tantHm  deserviunt  scholaribus^  quod  sub  cancellario 
respondeant^  uteres  tamen  eorum  super  crimine  adulterii  vel  alt- 
mfus  eognitio  et  correctio  ad  archidiaconum  spectat  in  casu  consi- 
mili  in  personis  aliis  sibi  subditorvm  diffamatce^  et  reliqua  eorum 
familia  ad  officium  scholarium  specialiter  non  deputata^  archidich 
cono  sint  subjecti  in  omnibus  et  singulis  sicut  coeteri  alii  laid  muni^ 
dpii  Cant,  et  totius  nostrce  dicecesis  Eliensis. 

^uod  autem  apud  Bem^weU  proesentibus  archidiacono  proedictOy 
canceUario^  et  aliis  quorum  intererat^  inter  eos  verbaliter  tantiim 
ordinammus,  prcesentibus  inseri  fecimus ;  mdelicet^  quod  rector es 
ecclesiarum^  vicarii^  capellani  parochiales  et  alii  ecclesiarum  Cant, 
ministri  archidiacono  per  omnia  subsint^  sicut  et  alii  de  archidiaco- 
natu  suo  adjiciendo^  declarantes  quod  appellatione  ministrorum 
ecdesiw  volumus  in  hoc  casu  contineri  tarn  ipsum  rectorem^  vicarium 
et  dericos  ecclesicB  desermentes^  quam  presbyteros  celebrantes  missas 
beatw  Virginis  et  pro  fiddibus^  dum  tamen  ab  aliquo  parochiano- 
rum  laicorum  Cant,  fuerint  pr4)curatiy  ibique  moram  faciant  prin^ 
cipaliter  pro  missis  hujusmodi  celebrandis^  licet  forsan  a  (?)  latere 
studere  telint  et  scholas  exercere.  8i  vero  principaliter  causa  studi- 
orum  ad  municipium  Cant,  venerinfy  licet  forsan  prcedictas  missas 
edebrent  per  pa/rochianos  procurati^  volumus  et  ordinamus  quod 
ca>neellarii  jurisdictioni  subsint  omnind,  Ita  quod  si  dubitetur  qud 
intentione  moram  faciwnt  principaliter  in  municipio  prcedicto^ 
super  hoc  stetur  ipsorum  presbyterorum  jy/ramento  corporaiiter 
prcestando  coram  archidiacono  et  cancellario  memoratis^  et  sic  de 
hujusmodi  presbyteri  persona  ille  jurisdictionem  habeat  omnind  ad 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


i  IDWAAV  I.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDOS.  37 

qum  ex  erentu  ei  mrtute  juramenti  pertinebit  in  fcrmA  iup&riii 
annotatd.  Si  ^erd  redores^  viearii^  et  ministri  hujuimodi  eecUrior 
rum  Cant,  forti  cum  idwlare  contrahant^  ieu  in  adu  icAolasiico 
Mnquanty  in  his  tantvmmodd  ccuibusy  et  non  aliis^  coram  cancel* 
lario  ipsas  prcpcipimus  compelli  reqxmdere. 

Ad  hoBc  inter  alia  laudabile  statutum  et  salubre  a  dietis  caneeUa^ 
rio  et  magistrie  editwn  diligenter  inspeximus^  nequis  aliquem  pro 
sckolare  tvsatwr  qui  certum  magietrum  infra  guindeeim  dies  post- 
quam  Universitatem  idem  schohris  ingressm  sit  non  habiterit,  aut 
nomen  mum  infra  tempos  prcelibatum  in  matriculd  sui  magistri 
redigi  non  cwraverit^  nisi  magistri  absentia  vel  justa  return  occu- 
patio  idem  impediat.  Immd  si  quis  talis  sub  nomine  scholaris  lati- 
tare  inveniatur^  Tel  dejidatv/r  rel  retineatur  juxta  regiam  libertch 
tern.  Et  licit  quilibet  magister^  antequam  actualiter  ad  regimen 
admittatur^  statutum  hujusmodi  fide  prcestitd  firmare  teneatur^ 
inteUeximus  tamen  quod  plures  magistri  perjurii  reatum  seepius 
incurrentes  contra  ejusdem  statuti  tenorem  aliquos  ut  scholares 
defendendo  fidem  suam  nequiter  violarunt :  propter  quod  volentes 
malitiis  hominum  obriare^  prcedpimus  subpoend  excommunicationis 
nequis  qtienqtuim  ut  scholarem  contra  memorati  statuti  tenorem 
tueri^  Telfavorem  sibi  ut  scholari  in  aliquo  prcebere  prcesumat. 

Et  quia  ecclesice  nostrce  dicecesis  nobis  et  archidiacono  nostro  sunt 
suhjectce^  scholares  verd  Universitatis  ejusdem  subsunt  canceUario 
memorato^  prcedpimus  et  mandamus  quod  sa>cerdotes  scholares  in 
utriusque  praosentid  tel  ipsorum  dees  gerentium  super  sud  ordina- 
tione  examinentur^  et  approbentur  tei  reprobentur^  prout  digni  vel 
indigni  reperti  frcerint. 

Et  ne  jus  nostrum  negligere  ddeamur  qui  alios  in  suA  justitid 
confovemus^  inkibemm  subpoend  excommunicationis^  quam  veniens  in 
contrarium  ipso  facto  inctirrat^  ne  memorati  canceUarius  et  Uni^ 
icersitas  dimsim  vel  conjunctim^  clam  vel  paldm  aliquid  ordinet  Tel 
statuaty  edita  Tel  statuta  hujusmodi  observet  Tel  serTari  fadat^  in 
prcejudicium  nostrw  jurisdictionis  seu  arckidiaconi  n^stri  Eliensis^ 
nobis  spedaliter  inconsultis  et  non  prcebentibm  assensum  hujusmodi 
statutisTel  etiam  statuendis :  decernimus  enim  irritum  et  inane  quic^ 
quid  contra  hanc  nostram  prohibitionem  a  quoquam  ipsorum  frcerit 
attemptatum. 

Ad  hcec  quia  jurisdictio  dicti  arckidiaconi  a  jurisdictione  prce/ati 
canceUarii  tarn  ratione  contractuum  quam  personarum  ac  etiam 
camarum  liquid^  est  distincta^  ac  constet  utrumque  esse  nobis  immedi- 
ate mbjectum^  nolumus  ipswm  archidiaconum  Tel  suamfamiliam  can- 
ceUario prcedicto  in  aliquo  subesse^  nee  ipsum  cancellarium  Tel  suam 
familiam  in  aliquo  subesse  archidiacono  memorato.  Sed  uterque  dr- 
tute  proprice  potestatis  suam  propriam  familiam  corrigat^  ipsam  ad 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


36  HISTORY  OF  THS  a.d.  1276. 

jtm$  r&guloi  redttcendo.  Ita  quod  si  neeesMrium  fiierit  superiori$ 
auxilium  in  his  de  quibus  ecdesia  judicata  ctd  naa  td  ad  offidaUm 
nostrum  recursus  habeatu/r :  saha  nobis  et  sttccessoribus  nostris 
potestate  cM^ndi^  detrabendi^  carrigendi^  mutandi  td  minuendi 
in  posterum  sicut  nobis  et  ipsis  visum/uerii  expedire.  Data  et  acta 
anno  Domini  MCOLXXVI.  apud  Dunham  in  octavis  beati 
Miehaelis.* 

14.  Observations:   University  equivocal.     The  Officers  thereof. 

Now  seeing  ibis  is  the  most  ancient  composition  in  this  kind 
we  meet  with,  it  will  not  be  amiss  to  dwell  a  while  thereon  with 
our  observations;  the  rather,  because  it  mentioneth  Cambridge, 
not  as  an  University  modernly  modelled,  but  of  an  ancient 
constitution. 

First.  We  find  in  the  preface  of  this  instrument  the  word 
"University,'*  within  the  compass  of  three  lines,  used  in  two 
senses  :  1.  For  **  the  generality  of  mankind,*"  to  whose  notice  this 
deed  may  attain :  2.  For  "  scholars  from  all  countries,''  studying 
the  latitude  of  learning,  in  one  grand  society  ;  in  which  acceptation 
(as  formerly  we  have  observed  out  of  a  great  antiquary  -f-)  it  began 
first  to  be  used  in  the  reign  of  king  Henry  III.  Now,  bishop 
Balsham  termeth  Cambridge  nostram^  "  our,"  University  :  First. 
Because  probably  therein  he  had  his  education  :  Secondly.  Because 
it  was  sited  in  (as  surrounded  with)  his  jurisdiction :  Thirdly. 
Because  lately,  in  the  founding  of  Peter-House,  it  had  largely  tasted 
of  his  benefaction. 

Secondly.  Behold  here  the  complete  body  of  an  University  with 
the  chancellor  (at  this  present,  Robert  de  Fulbume)  the  head,  the 
regents  and  scholars  the  heart,  the  officers  the  hands  and  feet 
thereof.  Of  the  latter  this  composition  expresseth  by  name, 
1.  Beadles ;  and  those  two  in  number,  with  the  verges  or  wands, 
since,  in  many  years,  grown  up  to  be  staves,  and  these  two  doubled 
into  four  at  this  day.  Some  conceive  bedellus  so  called  quasi  pedel- 
luSi  a  pedo^  signifying  that  ceremonious  staff  which  they  manage  in 
iheir  hands ;  whilst  others  witli  more  probability  derive  it  from 
"  beads,"  ("  prayers,"  in  old  English,)  it  being  a  principal  part  of  his 
office  to  give  public  notice  of  all  conventions  for  academical  devo- 
tion. 2.  Scriptoresj  *'  writers,"  well  known  to  all.  3.  lUumifiatoreSy 
such  as  gave  light  and  lustre  to  manuscripts,  (whence  our  English 
*'  to  limn,")  by  colouring  and  gilding  the  initial  and  capital  letters 
therein, — essential  ornaments  in  that  age,  men  then  being  more 

*  £xtant  in  an  old  book  of  the  archdeacozia  of  £17,  now  in  the  possession  of  m/  wortlij 
friend,  tliat  judicious  antiquary,  Mr.  More,  late  Fellow  of  Caius  College,  who,  for  me, 
kindly  transcribed  and  faithftilly  compared  it.  t  Camden,  in  Oj^fbrdthire, 

page  38. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


w 


4  nwAJLD  I.  UNIVEBSITT  OP  CAMBRIDOB.  30 

pleased  with  babies  in  books  than  children  are.  4.  SkiHcnainit  paUid  j 
ayoQching  the  sale  of  staple-books  in  standing  shops,  (whence  ihej 
hare  their  names,)  as  oppottte  to  such  circnmfonuiean  pedlars,  (an* 
cesioiB  to  our  modem  Mercaries  and  hawkers,)  who  secretly  vend 
prohibited  pamphlets.  All  other  oj£cers  are  indoded  in  this  deed 
\miet  the  generical  name  of  mancipia^  whence  our  word  **  manci 
ple^  (confined  since  hj  custom  to  signify  *<  the  provider  of  lictnals 
for  several  colleges)  takes  its  denomination. 

15.  Query:  Wkatmecmtby ''MoffiHer  Glameriwf'^ 
Bat  what  should  be  the  sense  of  glomerMi  and  meiffister  plome- 
ricBy  (bo  often  occurring  in  this  instrument,)  we  must  confess 
ourselves  Seekers  therein,  as  not  satisfied  with  what  learned  Gains 
coDJectureth  therein.  For  he  makeih  him  senior  regent,  to  collect 
and  count  the  sufirages  in  all  congregations ;  *  as  if  so  called  a 
ghmerando^  from  ^* going  round  about**  the  regent-house  to  that 
purpose ;  or  from  ^^  gathering  their  votes,**  commonly  written,  and 
(to  take  up  less  room,  and  to  be  the  better  taken  up)  glomerated,  that 
is,  rolled  and  rounded  up  in  a  piece  of  paper.  But  elsewhere  the  same 
author  tells  uB,*f  that  our  University^-orator,  at  this  day,  succeeds  to 
the  ancient  office  of  magiiter  glameriw ;  whose  place  it  is  to  enter- 
tain princes  and  peers  coming  thither,  and  to  pen  public  letters  on 
all  occasions  of  importance.  Whatever  he  was,  it  appears  by  this 
composition,  that  he  kept  courts,  and  had  cognizance  of  causes  of 
scholars  under  his  jurisdiction.  But  seeing  so  great  an  antiquary  as 
Sir  Henry  Spdman  concludes  all  herein  with  a  query,^  (his  doubts 
having  more  learning  than  other  men*s  determinations,)  let  it  suffice 
us  to  know,  that  the  original  of  this  word  seems  barbarous,  his  office 
narrow  and  topical,  (confined  to  Cambridge,)  and  his  certain  use  at 
this  day  antiquated  and  forgotten. 

16.  TAe  JBMop  cuxmsed  of  Preiumption  herein. 

Now  whereas  this  bishop,  towards  the  close  of  this  composition, 
thundereth  forth  his  excommunication  against  the  chancellor  and 
whole  University,  if  presuming  to  infringe  the  same  in  prejudice  of 
his  jurisdiction  ;  some  will  conceive  his  presumption  (or  profime- 
ness,  rather)  herein  incurred,  ipio  fac^  that  heavy  censure 
which  he  denounceth  on  others ;  considering  the  former  privileges 
indulged  some  hundreds  of  years  since,  by  several  popes  to  this 
University. 

HoKOAius  I.  anno  Domini  624,  Feb.  20. — Atdharitate  omnipo- 
tetUis  Dei  J  districtiw  inhibemus  mbpoend  excommtmicaiionis^  quam 

•  Hut.  Cantab,  lib.  U.  page  124.        t  Idemf  page  129.  t  See  Us  "Olossaiy  " 

inG. 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ IC 


40  History  of  tb£  a.d.  1280. 

Temehs  in  cantrarium  ipso  facto  incurrat^  ne  quia  archiq)iseopui, 
episcopusy  archidi<iconvSj  aut  eorum  offieicdes  seu  msitoitores  gene- 
raiesy  aut  speciales^  a  sede  apostolicd  deputatiy  audeat  in  aliquem 
a>cademicum  sutpensionis  td  excommunicationis  seu  interdicti  sen- 
tentias  inferre^  4-0.* 

SfiBGiiTs  I.  anno  Domini  6899  May  S.^^PrcBsentium  authoritate 
deoretimvsy  ut  nuUi  arehiepiecopo  rel  qnsccpo  aliive  ecdesiasticce  per- 
sonce  vel  seculari  liceat^  Universitatem  veUram^  aut  aliquem  vestritm 
suspendere,  eeu  excommunicare^  vd  quolibet  sub  interdicto  ponere^ 
absque  summi  pontifids  assensu  vel  ejus  speciali  mandatOy  Sf-c.f 

How  durst  the  bishop  of  Ely,  notwithstanding  the  premisses, 
interpose  his  power  in-  University-matters  ?  Is  it  not  ridiculous  for 
the  man  to  pretend  bounty  in  bestowing  a  remnant  on  him,  to 
whom  his  master  formerly  had  given  the  whole  piece  ?  What 
bounty  was  it  ini  this  bishop  to  exempt  Cambridge  partly  from  arcLi- 
diaconal,  which  popes  so  long  before  had  privileged  from  episcopal, 
jurisdiction  ? 

17, 18.  Some  over-harsh  in  their  Censures.  Moderation  is  best. 

These  considerations  have  prevailed  so  far  on  the  judgment  of 
some  (especially  Oxford)  men,  that  they  condemn  the  credit  of 
those  ancient  papal  privileges  indulged  to  Cambridge  as  false  and 
forged.  They  conceive  their  censure  herein  advantaged  by  a  disco- 
very one  hath  made  of  a  flaw  in  the  Bull  of  Honorius,  bearing  date 
two  years  before  Honorius  was  pope,  whose  papacy,  according  to 
common  computation^  began  not  until  the  year  6264 

For  mine  own  part,  I  see  no  necessity  to  cast  away  those 
Bulls  as  false  and  spurious,  but  rather  conceive,. that  the  origir 
of  them  were  long  since  abolished  at  the  destruction  of  Cambridge 
by  the  Danes,  when  all  things  were  almost  brought  to  a  general 
desolation.  And,  although  some  copies  and  transcripts  of  them 
were  reserved  ;  yet,  because  such  carried  not  authenticalness  with 
them,  the  bishops  of  Ely,  in  after-ages,  used  (not  to  say,  usurped) 
jurisdiction  over  Cambridge,  whilst  the  University  therein  was  as 
yet  weak  and  poor,  as  scarcely  recovered  out  of  the  late  ruins 
thereof.  Nor  am  I  moved  at  the  pretended  detection  of  a  false 
date  in  the  Bull  of  Honorius,  finding  him  at  the  same  time  sitting 
in  the  papal  chair,  by  the  testimony  of  authors  of  undeniable 
credit.§ 

*See  it  exemplified  at  large  in  Caivs,  De  AnUq.  Cantab,  UK  i.  p&g<!  ^^* 
t  Expressed  largely  in  the  same  anthor,  page  60.  t  Brian  Twyne,  JpoloQ- 

Antiq,  Acad.  Oxon,  page  62.  §  Catalog.  Augustin,  De  Nominibus  Fo»i\f' 

Homan.  Matthew  Westm.  fol.  215.  Platina,  fol,  89. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


9n>WAB0 1.  UNIVBIUBITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  41 

19.  The  ancient  HogteU  in  Cambridge.    A.D.  1280. 

It  is  now  high  time  that  we  give-in  a  list  of  such  Hostels  in 
Cambridge,  wherein  students  lived,  under  the  rule  of  a  Principal, 
on  tbeir  own  proper  charges,  before  any  Colleges  were  endowed  in 
the  University. 

1.  St.  AugustineVHostel,  now  KingVCoUege  Pensionary,  at 
the  east  end  of  the  chapel,  next  to  the  Provosf  s  lodging.* 

2.  Bemard's-Hostel,  situate  where  now  the  Master's  garden  of 
BeneVCollege,  but  belonging  to  Queens's,  as  purchased  by  Andrew 
Ducket,  (the  last  Principal,)  and  bestowed.*!" 

3.  Bolton Vplace,  now  part  of  Pembroke-Hall.J 

4.  BordenVHostel,  near  the  back-gate  of  the  Rose  Tavern, 
opening  against  Caius-College  ;  anciently  it  belonged  to  St.  JohnV 
Hostel,  and  afterwards  to  Clare-Hall.§ 

5.  St.  Botolph's-Hostel,  betwixt  the  church  and  Pembroke-Hall, 
(where  Wenham,  a  cook,  dwelt  in  my  time,  and)  where  some  colle- 
giate character  is  still  retained  in  the  building.  || 

6.  ClementVHostel,  on  the  south  of  St,  Clement's  church.^ 

7.  Cousin VPlace,  included  in  Pembroke-Hall,** 

8.  St.  CrossVHostel,  in  the  street  called  School-lane,  anciently 
a  tenement  of  St.  JohnVHospital."(-f- 

9.  EdmondVHostel ;  nomenpatet^  locus  latet.W 

10.  St.  EdwardVHostel,  against  Little  St.  Mary's,  where  lately 
a  victualling-house,  called  the  Chopping-Knife.§§ 

11.  Ely-Convent,  near  BordenVHostel,  for  Ely  monks  to 
study  in. II II 

12.  GerardVHostel,  betwixt  Trinity-Hall  and  College,  where  a 
bridge  lately  (if  not  still)  bearing  the  name  thereof. 

13.  GodVHouse,  taken  down  by  king  Henry  VI.  but  not  in 
that  sacrilegious  sense  wherein  the  Psalmist  complains:  "They 
have  taken  the  houses  of  God  into  their  possession,'^  Psalm  Ixxxiii. 
12.  For  when  he  took  this  into  KingVCoUege,  in  lieu  thereof  he 
founded  another.^  ^ 

14.  Gt)dVHouse,  now  parcel  of  Christ VCollege.*** 

15.  St.  GregoryVHostel,  where  now  Trinity-College  Dove- 
coat.f-f~f- 

16.  HarlestoneVHostel,  in  HarlestoneVlane,  on  the  east  of  St. 
Clemenfs  church.     William  Grey,  bishop  of  Ely,  1466,  allowed 

*  Caius,  HuU  Cant,  Acad.  lib.  i.  page  47.  t  Idem,  ibid,  t  See  J.  Scot's 

"Tables."  %  Sceletos  Cantab*  Joannis  Parkeri,  Caio,  Oonvil,  |]  Caius. 

H  Idem,  page  50.  ••  Scot's  «  Tables."  tt  Sceletos  Cant.  tX  Caius, 

page  61.  §§  Sceletos  Cant.  \\\\  Idem.  ^^  Scot's  "  Tables." 

•*•  Caius.  ttt  Scektos  Cant. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


42  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.]>.  1280. 

them  leave  to^  officiate  Divine  Service  in  their  oratory  near  the 
high  bridge.* 

17-  St.  HughVHostel.  This  my  worthy  friend  Mr.  More, 
late  Fellow  of  Caius-^llege,  first  descried  out  of  an  ancient  manu* 
script,  (once  belonging  to  Ely,)  attesting  that  Mr.  ,  of  St. 

HughVHostel,  was  admitted  to  plead  in  the  bishops'  courts.  Thus 
hath  he  recovered  the  denomination,  let  others  discover  the  situa- 
tion, thereof. 

18.  Jesus'^-Hostel,  or  de  Pomitentid  Jesu^  and 

19.  St.  JohnVHospital ;  for  it  is  pity  to  part  them,  which  stood 
close  together,  (as  John  usually  lay  in  Jesus's  bosom,  Johnxiii. 
23,)  consisting  of  Seculars,  and  now  both  compounded  into  Peter- 
House. 

20.  3t.  JohnVHostel  of  Regulars^  now  translated  into  St.  JohnV 
CoUege. 

21.  St,  CatherineVHospital,  now  the  south  part  of  Trinity- 
College,^ 

22.  KnaptonVPlace,  absorbed  at  this  day  in  Pembroke*Hall.} 

23.  St.  MargaretVHostel,  being  the  east  side  of  Trinity-GolIege.§ 

24.  St.  MaryVHostel,  on  the  north-west  of  that  church,  where 
only  a  brick-wall  keeps  possession  of  the  memoiy  thereof.  It 
belongeth  to  Bene't ;  Matthew  Parker  being  first  admitted  here, 
before  transplanted  into  that  College.  || 

25.  St.  Nicholas VHostel,  over-against  Christ-College,  where 
now  a  private  house,  with  the  public  name  of  the  Brasen-George. 
The  scholars  hereof,  a9  eminent  for  hard  studying,  so  infamous  for 
their  brawlings  by  night.^ 

26.  Ovings^-Inn,  the  buildings  under  which  the  kennel  betwixt 
Caius  and  Trinity-College  emptieth  itself.** 

27.  St.  PaulVInn,  now  the  Rose  Tavem.-f-f- 

28.  PbiswickVHostel,  bequeathed  by  William  Phiswick,  esquire- 
beadle  to  Gonville-HalJ, — since  taken  into  Trinity-College.JJ 

29.  Pythagoras VHouse,  beyond  the  bridge;  either  so  called, 
because  his  philosophy  was  studied  there,  or  because  formerly  the 
form  or  building  thereof  resembled  a  Y,  his  beloved  letter.  Other- 
wise, many  men  will  be  made  as  soon  to  believe  Pythagoras^s  trans- 
migration of  souls,  as  the  transportation  of  his  body  hither,— -that 
he  ever  lived  in  Britannia.  It  now  belongeth  to  Merton-CoUege  in 
Oxford.§§ 

30.  RudVHostel,  over  against  Emmanuel-College,  where  now 
the  Castle-Inn.  II II 

•  Scektos  Cant,  t  Idem.  t  Scot's  **  TaLles."  (  SceleiM  Cant. 

II  CaiuS)  ut  jiriils,  page  2.  If  Idem,  page  50.  **  Sceleto*  Oantad, 

tt  Caius.  XX  SceUtosCanua,  %^Idem,  \\\\  Idem, 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


9CDWAB0I.  UNIVSBSITT  OF  CAMBRIDGB.  43 

SI.  St  ThomasVHostel,  where  now  the  orcliard  of  the  Master 
of  Pembroke-HalU  and  where  the  neighbouring  Leas  retain  their 
Dame :  formerly  the  Campus  Martini  of  the  scholars  here  exercising 
themselves,  sometimes  too  violently ;  lately  disused,  either  because 
young  scholars  now  have  less  valour,  or  more  civility.* 

32.  Trinity-Hostel,  on  the  south  side  of  that  church,  the  habita- 
tion lately  of  Dr.  Angier,  now  of  Dr.  Eade.  Some  chapel-conformity 
is  still  extant  in  an  east  window  thereof :  and  the  ancient  anns  of  the 
earl  of  Oxford  in  an  outward  room,  invite  me  to 'believe  that  family 
the  founder  thereof. 

33.  Tiled-Hostely  on  the  west  of  Caius  and  east  of  Txinity- 
College. 

34.  University-Hostel,  which  in  the  year  1S50  was,  for  some 
considerations,  passed^  by  the  Vice-chancellor  and  Regent-house, 
to  Pembroke-Hall.  This  anciently  was  the  house  of  Sir  Roger 
H^don,  kni|;ht ;  and  long  before,  one  Fabian,  the  Chaplain,  dwelt 
therein. 

Of  these  Hostels  we  see  some  denominated  from  the  saint  to 
whom  they  were  dedicated,  as  St,  Margaret'^s,  St.  Nicholases,  &c. 
Some  from  the  vicinage  of  the  church  to  which  they  were  adjoined, 
as  St.  MsMry^s,  St.  BotolpVs,  &c.  Some  from  the  materials  with 
which  they  were  covered,  as  Tiled-Hostel.  Some  from  those 
who  formerly  bought,  built,  or  possessed  them,  as  Borden'^s,  Rud^s, 
Phiswick's,  &Cp  Some  were  reserved  only  for  civil  and  canon 
lawyers,  as  St.  PauPs,  Ovings',  Trinity,  St.  Nicholas^  Borden's, 
St.  Edward^^s,  and  Rud's  ;  and  all  the  rest  employed  for  artists  and 
divines.  Some  of  them  were  but  members  and  appendants  to  other 
Hostels,  (and  afterwards  to  Colleges,)  as  Borden'^s  to  St.  JohnV 
Hostel,  then  to  Clare-Hall ;  St.  Bernard's  to  Queen's.  The  rest 
were  absolute  corporations,  entire  within  themselves,  without  any 
subordination. 

20.  Inns  less  than  Hostels. 

Know  also  that  Inns  (whereof  only  two,  Ovings'  and  St  Paul's) 
differed  only  jgradually  from  Hostels,  as  being  less.  For  John 
Ovings,  derk,  bought  the  ground  whereon  this  Inn,  from  him 
named,  was  seated,  of  the  first  prioress  of  St.  Radigund's,  for 
two  shillings;  which,  at  twelve  years'  purchase,  was  but  two 
pence  a-year.  It  seems,  being  a  waste,  it  was  little  worth ;  or 
else  the  prioress  charitably  afforded  him  the  better  pennyworth, 
in  consideration  that  he  would  improve  the  place  to  a  public  good. 

•  Caius. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


44  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1280. 

21,  22.    Two  ktmdred  ffalh  taid  to  be  in  Oxford.    Magnitude 
supplies  Multitude. 

But  here  the  Oxford  antiquary  insulteth  on  the  paucity  of 
ancient  Hostels,  in  Cambridge,  (which  all  our  industry  cannot 
advance  to  forty,)  much  boasting  of  the  numerousness  of  the  Halls 
in  Oxford,  which  he  mounteth  to  above  two  hundred,  assigning 
their  several  names  and  situations,  besides  entries,  chambers,  and 
other  less  places  for  students  to  live  in. 

I  envy  not  my  aunt's  fruitfulness,  (though  every  hundred  had 
been  a  thousand,)  but  conceive  such  Halls  must  needs  be  mean  and 
small  structures,  if  we  consult  the  content  and  extent  of  Oxford, 
not  exceeding  Cambridge  in  greatness  of  ground,  and  the  latter 
every  whit  as  eu?r)jy^j,  or  "  well-compacted  together.'"  Either  then 
such  Halls  (like  flowers  that  grow  double)  must  one  crowd  into 
another ;  or  else  they  must  be  inconsiderably  small,  like  those  three 
hundred  sixty-five  children  which  Margaret  countess  of  Henne- 
berg  brought  forth  at  a  birth  in  Holland, — one  skull  whereof  I  have 
seen,*  no  bigger  than  a  bead  or  a  bean ;  or  else  it  is  utterly  impos- 
sible such  a  compass  of  ground  should  contain  them.  Besides,  "  if 
all  the  body  be  the  eye,  where  then  is  the  hearing  ?  "  These  two 
hundred  Halls  for  scholars  will  take  up  so  much  ground,  none  will 
be  left  for  the  townsmen.  This  makes  me  conceive,  that  aula 
(whence  our  "  Hall  ")  did  import  but  one  fair  room,  or  else  was  a 
townsman's  house,  (like  Moody-Hall  in  Cambridge,)  where  scholars 
dieted  together.  This  I  dare  aver,  that  what  the  Halls  in  Cam- 
bridge wanted  of  Oxford  in  number,  they  had  in  greatness  ;  so  that 
what  was  lost  in  discrete — ^was  found  in  continued — quantity.  For 
we  read  how  in  the  Hostels  of  St.  Mary,  Bernard,  Thomas,  Augus- 
tine, there  were  twelve,  twenty,  and  sometimes  thirty  regents, 
besides  non-regents  above  them,  and  young  students  beneath  them. 
As  for  the  Hostels  designed  for  lawyers,  almost  every  of  them  had 
fourscore  or  an  hundred  students.  So  that  what  Homer  saith  of  a 
physician,  that  he  is  ttoWwv  uvtu^^os  oiWoov,  "eminently  worth  | 
many  others  :  ^  one  of  Cambridge-Hostels  might  be  equivalent,  in 
number  of  students,  to  many  of  those  Oxford-Halls ;  and  the  differ- 
ence not  so  great  in  scholars,  as  the  disproportion  betwixt  thirty  of  i 
the  one  and  two  hundred  of  the  other  doth  seem  to  import. 

•  Derived  for  some  htmdred  of  years  by  succession,  through  authentic  pliysiciw",    j 
to  Dr.  Vilvain  of  Exeter,  present  ovmer  thereof,  and  avouched,  by  the  skilfol  in  anatooQ/i 
the  true  head  of  an  infant  once  bom  into  the  world. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


9  KDWABD  I.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  45 

23,  24.  The  Benefit  and  Use  of  HoeteU.  A  CaUdoffus  of  learned 
Cambridge  HosteUere, 
In  these  Hostels  Scholars  were  more  conveniently  accommodated 
than  in  townsmen'^s  houses,  wherein  anciently  they  lived;  both 
becanse  here  they  were  united  under  one  head ;  and  because  they 
were  either  rent-free,  or  paid  it  by  agreement  to  a  chief  of  their  own 
Society.  But  as  stars  lose  their  light*  when  the  sun  ariseth ;  so  all 
these  Hostels  decayed  by  degrees,  when  endowed  Colleges  began  to 
appear  in  Cambridge  ;  and  I  behold  Trinity-Hostel  (wherein  Stu- 
dents continued  till  the  year  1540)  as  the  longest  liver,  surviv- 
ing all  the  rest. 

But,  whilst  they  were  in  use,  many  worthy  scholars  were  bred 
therein ;  and  pity  it  is  the  catalogue  of  their  names  is  lost.  For 
when  I  find  an  English  bishop,  or  learned  writer,  brought  up  in 
Cambridge,  but  not  reducible,  with  probability,  to  any  College  now 
in  being,  presently  I  conclude  he  had  his  education  in  one  of  the 
aforesaid  Hostels.  I  will  instance  only  in  those  which  flourished  in 
the  reign  of  king  Henry  VIH. 

Henry  Holbeach,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  1547  ;  John  Capon,  bishop 
of  Sanim,  1539  ;  John  Hilsey,  bishop  of  Rochester,  1536 ;  Wil- 
liam Repps,  bishop  of  Norwich,  1536 ;  Thomas  Thyrleby,  bishop 
of  Norwich,  1550 ;  James  Stanley,  bishop  of  Ely,  1506 ;  Rowland 
Lee,  bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield,  1524 ;  Richard  Sampson, 
bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield,  1543 ;  John  Clerk,  bishop  of 
Bath  and  Wells,  1523  ;  Edward  Vaughan,  bishop  of  St,  David's, 
1509;  Edmund  Birkhead,  bishop  of  St.  Asaph,  1513;  Henry 
Standish,  bishop  of  St.  Asaph,  1519 ;  Robert  Parfew,*  bishop  of 
St.  Asaph,  1536 ;  John  Bird,  bishop  of  Bangor,  1539 ;  Robert 
Holgate,  archbishop  of  York,  1544 ;  Cuthbert  Tunstall,  bishop  of 
Dujham,  1530. 

All  these  undoubtedly  were  and  are  allowed  by  bishop  Godwin 
to  be  Cambridge-men,  yet  no  modem  College-register  can  reach 
them,  as  to  lay  just  claim  to  their  breeding.  Whence  we  infer 
them  to  be  no  Collegiates,  but  Hostelers,  not  in  that  sense  which 
the  spiteful  papists  charged  Dr.  Cranraer  to  be  one,-f*  (*'  an  attendant 
on  a  stable,^  )  but  "  such  as  lived  in  a  learned  Inn  or  Hostel  not 
endowed  with  revenues.*" 

25.  Ancient  religious  Houses  in  Cambridge. 

Pass  we  now  from  these  Hostels  to  those  religious  houses  which 
anciently  flourished  in  Cambridge  :  where  first  we  meet  with  the 

*  According  to  Ld  Neve,  Robert  Wartou  was  the  bishop  ut  that  |ime« — Edit. 
+  Fox's  "Acts  and  Mjouumeiits." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


46  HISTORY  OF  TRB  a.  D.  1283. 

Dominicans,  or  Preaching  Friars,  (though  neith^  finding  their 
founder,  nor  valuation  at  their  suppression,)  whose  house  is  now 
turned  into  Emmanuel-College. 

Fifanciscans  follow,  called  also  Minors,  or  Gray  Friars ;  their 
house  being  now  converted  into  Sidney  College*  It  was  founded 
by  king  Edward  I.  where  they  had  a  fair  church,  which  I  may  call 
"the  St.  MaryV  before  <fSt.  Mary's T  the  Commencement, 
Acts,  and  Exercises  being  kept  therein.  The  area  of  this  church  is 
easily  visible  in  Sidney  College  garden,  where  the  depression  and 
subsidency  of  their  bowling-green  east  and  west  present  the  dimen* 
sions  thereof,  and  I  have  oft  found  dead  menu's  bones  thereabouts. 
When  this  church  fell,  or  was  taken  down,  I  know  not ;  and  should 
be  thankful  to  such  as  should  to  me  expound  those  passages  in  Mr. 
lAscham's  epistle  to  Thomas  Thyrleby,  bishop  of  Westminster; 
the  date  of  the  year  not  being  expressed.  It  is  to  entreat  him  to 
stand  the  University'^s  firiend,  in  compassing  for  them  this  house  of 
Franciscans,  wherein  hitherto  their  great  endeavours  had  small 
success ;  adding  moreover,  Franciacanorum  cedes  nan  modi  deem 
atque  omamentt^m  academiwj  ml  opportunitates  mannas  ad  comi- 
tia^  et  omnia  a>cademicB  negotia  conjicienda  habent.  What  accom- 
modations this  house  could  then  afford  the  University  at  Commence- 
ment I  understand  not.  Sure  I  am,  king  Henry  VIII.  bestowed  it 
on  Trinity  College,  of  whom  the  executors  of  the  lady  Fiances 
Sidney  did  afterwards  purchase  it. 

Augustine  Friars,  on  the  south  side  of  Pease-Market,  lately  the 
dwelling  of  Mr.  Pierce,  and  now  of  Mr.  Thomas  Budc,  esquire- 
beadle.     Their  founder  and  value  unknown. 

Carmelites,  built  by  Edward  I.  to  which  Sir  Guy  de  Mortimer 
and  Thomas  de  Hertford  were  great  benefactors.  Their  house 
crossed  athwart  the  street  now  leading  to  King'*s  College,  as  occupy- 
ing the  ground  whereon  Catherine  Hall  and  Queen^s  do  stand  at 
this  day. 

White  Canons,  almost  over-against  Peter  House,  where  now  a 
brick-wall,  (the  back-side  is  called  White  Canons  at  this  day,)  ^^^ 
an  inn  with  the  sign  of  the  Moon. 

As  for  the  nunnery  of  St.  Radigund'*s  and  priory  of  Barnwell, 
we  have  formerly  spoken  of  them :  only  I  add,  that  at  the  Dissolu- 
tion king  Henry  bestowed  the  site  of  the  latter  on  Sir  Anthony 
Brown  (afterward  viscount  Mountague)  and  dame  Elizabeth  his 
wife,  and  their  heirs,  at  the  rent  of  one  pound  four  shillings  penny 
half-penny. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


11  B>W4U>  I.  UNIVI&SITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  47 

26.  FrequmU  CmiaU  behtiaei  Ftia/Ki  and  Unitmi^Mm. 

These  Friars  living  in  these  convents  were  capable  of  degrees, 
and  k^  their  Acts,  as  other  Univenity-men.  Yet  were  thej 
gremials  and  not-gremials,  who  sometimes  would  so  stand  on  the 
tiptoes  of  their  privileges,  that  thej  endeavoured  to  be  higher  than 
other  Bludents :  so  that  oftentimes  they  and  the  scholars  could  not 
set  their  horses  in  one  stable,  or  rathet  their  books  on  one  shelf. 
However,  generally  the  Chancellors  ordered  them  into  tolerable  obe- 
dience, as  will  appear  hereafter. 

27.  A  Lui  of  leam0d  Friari,  Writers.    A.D.  1282. 

Last  of  all,  it  will  be  enough  for  the  present,  to  give  in  a  list  of 
such  learned  writers  as  were  bred  in  Cambridge,  in  these  several 
Orders,  as  we  have  Collected  them  out  of  Bale,  Pits,  and  other 
authors. 

Au60STiNiAN8. — Ouliclmus  Wels,  1421 ;  Joannes  Buriensis, 
1460;  Oalfride  Glandfield,  1340;  Joannes  Godwick,  1360;  John 

Langham,   ;    John    Sloley,    1477;    John    Tonney,   1480; 

Ralph  Marcham,  1380;  Richard  Chester,  1354;  Roger  Clacton, 
1340. 

Dominicans. — William  Encart,  1340;  William  King8ham» 
1262;  John  Boltesham,  1388;  John  Bromiard,  1390;  John 
Stock,  1374;  Simon  Bamstone,  1337 ;  Tho.  Langford,  1320. 

PKANciscANs.-^Will.  Folvil,  1384;  John  Wichingham,  1362; 
Reginald  Langham,  1410;  Vin.  Coventriensis,  1251;  Stephen 
Baron,  1520. 

Casmelites. — ^Alan.  de  Lin,  1420 ;  Dionys.  Holcan,  1424 ; 
Walter  Diss,  1404;  Walter  Heston,  1350;  Will.  Becde,  1438; 

Wai.  Bintree,  1493  ;  Will.  Blacvey,  1490;  Will.  Califord, ; 

WiU.  Cokisford,  1380;  Will,  de  SanctA  Fide,  1372;  Will. 
Greene,  1470 ;  Will.  Harsick,  1413  ;  Will.  Lincoln,  1360 ;  Will. 
Sarslet,  1466  ;  Will.  Parcher,  1470 ;  Hugh  of  St.  Neot's,  1340 ; 
Joh.  Bampto,  1341. ;  Jo.  Baret,  1656 ;  Jo.  Beston,  1428 ;  Jo. 
Clipston,  1378 ;  Jo.  Elin,  1379;  Jo.  Falsham,  1348  ;  Jo.  Hornby, 
1374 ;  Jo.  Pascal,  1361 ;  Jo.  Repingal,  1350  ;  Jo.  Swaffam,  1394 ; 
Jo.  Thorpe,  1440 ;  Jo.  Tilney,  1430 ;  Jo.  Wamsleet,  1418 ;  Mart. 
Sculthorp,  14S0;  Nic.  Cantilupe,  1441;  Nic.  Kenton,  1468; 
Nic.  Swaffam,  1449 ;  Pet.  de  Sanctd  Fide,  1452 ;  Ralph  Spal- 
ding,  1390;  Rob.  Ivorie,  1392 ;  Tho.  HiUey,  1290;  Tho.  Mai- 
don,  1404. 

These  were  bred  in  the  aforesaid  houses  in  Cambridge,  belonging 
to  their  Orders,  until  graduated  in  Divinity,  and  were  afterwards 
dispersed  into  their  respective  convents,  all  over  England. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


4S  HISTORY  OF  THE  a,i>,  1382. 

28,  The  first  Endowing  of  Peter-House.    Zoars  may  grow  great  in 

Time. 

*  The  reader  doti  remember  how,  above  twenty  years  rince, 
(namely,  anrio  1257,)  Hugh  Balsham,  subVprior  of  Ely,  foUnded  a 
College  \vithout  Tnimpihgtori-gatev  consisting  of; two  Hostels  he 
had  f)iii'cha8€d  and  united.  The  same  Hugh,  now  bishop  of  Ely, 
removed  the  Secular-  Brethren  from .  St.  John's-  Hospital^-  in  the 
JeVry,*  (where  they  and  the  Regulars  agreed •  not  very  well,)  to 
this  liis.new  foundation.  At  which, time  he  endowed  the  same  with 
maintenance  for  one  Master,  fourteen  Fellows,  two,  Bible-Clerks, 
and  eight  poor  Scholars ;  whose  number  might  be  increased  or 
diminished,  according  to  the  improvement  or  abatement  of  their 
revenues.  He  appointed  his  successors,  the  bishops  of  Ely,  to  he 
honorary  patrons,  yea,  nursing  fathers,  to  this  his  infant  College ; 
who  have  well  discharged  their  trust  therein. 

*  We  know  what  the  historian  saith  :  Omnia  fermiprio^p^imrd 
p^rta^  "  Almost  all  beginnings  are  small ; ''  as  here  indeed*  they 
were.  Alas  !  Balshani,  for  a  long  time,  Was  little  able  to  endow  a 
College^  as  scarce  sufficient  to  subsist  of  himself ;  whilst  hiselection 
to  Ely, (made  without  the  king's  consent)  was  not  yet.cpnfirmed.f 
But  nb  sooner  had  he  a:ny  certainty  for  himself  but  his- College^ had- 
a  share  thereof;  for  he  gavo^them  all  the  rights  and  tithes  belonging 
to  St.  Peter's  church,  adjoining,  and  by  his  will  bequeathed  them 
three  hundred  marks,  wherewith  was  bought  and  built  a  fair  Hall  and 
court,  since  much  beaulified  and  enlarged. 

Masters.— 1.  Roger  de  la  Goter,  of  St.  Botolph's,  Master, 
A.D.  1340;  2.'- Ralph  da  Holbeche  resigned  his  place,  and 
resumed  a  Fellowship,  1349.  .  3.  William  de  Whittlesey^  arch- 
deacon of  Huntingdon i  chosen  custos^  1349.  4.  Richard  de.  Wis- 
bich,  chosen  Master,  1351.;.  5.  Thomas  de  WorBJehall,  catoen  of 
Sarum,  chancellor  of  £ly,  1381.  He  died  the  same  year.  6.  John 
de  Newton,"  chosen,  1381.  7.  Thomas  de  Castro  Bfernatdi,- 1400. 
8.  John  Holb'rook.  He  died,  1431'.  9.  Thomas  Lane,  1457. 
10.  Thomas  Deinman,  1500.     11.  John  Warkworth,  1474.     12. 

Henry  Hornby, .     13.  Jo.  Edmunds,  1552.     14.  Ralph  Ain^- 

worth,  1553.  15.  Andrew  Peme,  1553.  16.  Robert  Soame, 
1589.  17.  Jo.  Richardson,  1608.  18.  Tho.  Turner,  1615. 
19.  Leonard  Maw,  16i7.  '20.  Matthew  Wren,  16^,  21.  John 
Cosins-,  dean* of  Peterborough,  1634.  22.  Laiarus  Seaman,  D.D. 
1644.J     ; 

•  Betwixt  Konnd  Chnrcli  and  (what  is  now)  St.  John's  College.  f  Godwin  in 
his  <^  Catalogue  of  Bishops."  t  Le  Neve  gives  a  list  of  twenty-sixM^ters^ 
between  A. D.  1290  and  1644.  Some  of  the  names  in  the  two  listS}  as  nanal,  var;^  a  Utt^ 
in  orthography.— Edit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


•v.i  1-:  \v  rs     I)  K      r  I.)  [.  [,  K  i:  e  s     a  :'  i^      1 1 . » i.  i. . . 


> 

V 


u  ^  i^?: 


11  I'll 

tjf3ii3i" 


.  Jp?t  n  3^H  "HTi.TOfL 


'  PK  I  hR  .-    ^  OI.LX  :^. 


•  I    MM       II  \'  1. 


LI   Ns     CO  I. 

/Google 


1\I^"<■,'^       COILFGE 


gl    LI   Ns     COU.lj^F 

Digitized  by  V 


Digitized  by 


Google 


il  tDWAUD  I.  UNIVBRSITY  OP  CAMBRIDGE.  49 

Benefactors. — Simon  Montacute,  Simon  Langbam,  and  John 
Pordham,  bistops  of  Ely.  John  Holbrook,  Thomas  Lane,  Thomas 
Deyman,  John  Warkworth,  Will.  Burgoin,  Henry  Hornbye,  John 
Edmunds,  Andrew  Perne,  all  Masters  of  the  College.  Ralph 
Walpool,  bishop  of  Norwich,  1290,  gave  two  messuages  in  Cam- 
bridge. Mr.  Thomas  Packington.  William  Noyon,  rector  of  Had- 
denham.  William  Martin.  Robert  Shorten.  Edmund  Hanson. 
Robert  Gilbert.  Mr.  Skelton.  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Wolfe.  John 
Whitgift,  archbishop  of  Canterbury.  Edward  Lord  North.  Ro- 
bert Smith.  Henry  Wilshaw.  The  Lady  Mary  Ramsey. 
Robert  Warden.  Thomas  Warren.  Mrs.  Margaret  Dean.  Wil- 
liam Heme.  Mr.  Robert  Slade.  Mr.  John  Blith,  late  Fellow. 
Mrs.  Frances  Matthew,  who  gave  £200^  Dr.  John  Richardson , 
vbo  gave  .^'lOO,  and  Dr.  Haukings,  who  gave  <f  100,  towards  the 
building  of  a  new  court,  front,  and  gate  towards  the  street,  now 
finished. 

Bishops. — William  de  Whittlesey,  third  Master,  of  this  Col- 
lege, archbishop  of  Canterbury.*  John  de  Bottelsham,  bishop  of 
Rochester,  Master  of  this  College.  John  Whitgift,  archbishop  of 
Canterbury,  Fellow.  Walter  Curie,  bishop  of  Winchester,  Fel- 
low.   Matthew  Wren,  Master  of  this  College,  bishop  of  Ely. 

Learned  ^Weiters. — Roger  Marshal,  well  skilled  in  mathe- 
matics ;  whereof,  saith  Pits,  in  his  Appendix,  he  wrote  many  books, 
and  collected  more,  which  he  gave  to  the  library.  George  Joye, 
who  flourished  anno  1547,  translated  part  of  the  Bible.-f-  Edward 
Simmons,  who  wrote  many  good  treatises,  1547. 

Livings  i"N  the  College  Gift. — 1.  Cherry-Hinton  vicarage, 
in  Ely  diocess,  valued  in  the  king's  books  at  £9,  14*.  6d. 
2.  Ellington,  in  the  diocess  of  Lincoln,  H  vicarage,  valued  at 
M,  9s,    3.  Thriplow  vicarage,  in  Ely  diocess,  valued  £9.  4«.  2d, 

4.  St.  Mary''s-the-Less^in  Cambridge,  valued .     5.  Statheme 

rectory,  in  Lincoln  diwlss,  valued  £16.  3«.J 

The  reader  will  pardon  the  shortness  of  this  our  catalogue  of 
Masters,  (not  touching  the  top  of  the  foundation  by  fifty  years,) 
^hich  looks  like  the  blunt  tower  of  a  steeple,  whose  spire  or  shaft 
hath  been  burnt  down  with  lightning,  or  broken  with  thunder ;  as, 
indeed,  some  such  casualty  hath  caused  this  imperfection.     For,  in 

•  So  Mr.  R.  Paiker  proves  him  out  of  the  Records  of  Ely  j  though  otherwise,  I  con- 
fess, bishop  Godwin  makes  him  of  Oxford.  t  Bale,  Cent,  nona,  page  721. 
I  At  the  clo8«  of  this  Section,  (page  67,)  and  of  each  snhseqnent  one  in  the  "  History," 
^  he  inserted,  in  the  form  of  copious  notes,  additional  particulars  respecting  the 
learned  fonndations  des4Srihed  in  them,  and  the  eminent  men  who  have  flourished  since 
^tiUer's  days,  and  who  have  shed  a  lustre  on  the  Colleges  in  which  they  severaUy 
received  their  education,  and  the  University  in  which  they  obtained  Uterary  distinction. 
—Edit. 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


Digitized  by 


Google 


r:r-ar 

:  e  p.x. 

.  \j',-ji'j 

.\    lO    h-i 

; :  ;  j*^ 

',  ;  ..:-x  § 

.    :"t  j 

.  --1  Ft:- 


2      tf      tM 


1  nxiii^  is 

\'A  by  tibe 
our  foTT&er 


|9««t 


n 


Digitized  by 


V 


Go'aglc 


50  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1282. 

the  year  1420,  a  sad  fire  consumed  the  muniments  of  this  College ; 
which  caused  Caius  to  begin  his  list  of  Masters  but  at  Thomas  de 
Castro  Bernardi ;  and  the  six  Seniors  before  him  are  recovered,  by 
the  care  of  Mr.  R.  Parker,*  out  of  Ely  Records.  Yet  this  catalogue 
still  remaineth  incomplete,  (O  that  it  were  as  easy  to  rectify  as  to 
reprove  faults  !)  guilty,  I  am  afraid,  not  only  of  transposition  in  the 
order,  but  omission  in  the  number,  thereof.  For  I  have  read,  that 
John  Bottelsham  was  admitted  Master  14 —  ;  "f*  yet  he  appears  not 
in  Caius,  or  any  other  printed  author. 

29.  A  general  Rule  about  our  Catalogue  of  Benefactors, 

Amongst  the  Benefactors,  many,  who  only  gave  plate,  small 
sums,  and  books,  are,  for  brevity's  sake,  omitted ;  and  not  any 
-slighting  of  their  bounty  for  the  smallness  thereof.  For  if  our 
Saviour  beheld  the  widow  as  the  best  benefactor  to  the  corban,  who 
endowed  it  only  with  "  two  mites ;''  and  if  "a  cup  of  cold  water" 
(warm  comfort  to  a  thirsty  soul)  shall  receive  its  reward ;  surely, 
such  as  give  the  cup,  also,  deserve  their  due  commendation,  and 
shall  have  a  requital  thereof.  I  have  ordered  some  black  lines  at 
the  end  of  that  catalogue,  as  a  reserve  to  register  the  bounty  of  pos- 
terity, which  shall  not  complain  that  they  are  paper-bound  in  my 
book,  where  room  on  purpose  is  left  to  enter  their  names  who 
shall  be  charitably  disposed.  I  hope  also,  that  those  void  intervals 
and  spaces  in  the  list  of  learned  writers  (which  as  so  many  open 
mouths  invoke  the  industry  of  the  reader)  will  have  their  emptiness 
filled  by  several  men's  observations,  whose  pens  may  at  their  leisure 
supply  what  the  press  hath  left  unperfect. 

30,  31.  Cautela  non  nocet.    Repetition  of  Bishops^  why  necem/ry. 

Know  also  I  could  have  more  particularly  specified  the  value  and 
place  of  Founders'  and  Benefactors'  bounty)[|c-what  land  they  gave, 
how  much  worth,  where  lying ;  but  thought  better  to  forbear,  as 
ignorant,  in  these  dangerous  days,  what  ill  use  might  be  made  of 
my  well-intended  endeavours. 

Condemn  not  our  tautology,  if  the  same  bishop  often  recur  in 
several  Colleges ;  perchance,  Scholar  of  one.  Fellow  of  another, 
Master  of  a  third  :  because  rather  than  I  would  wrong  any  House 
with  the  omission,  I  would  right  them  all  with  the  repetition  of  the 
same  person.  Such  bishops  as  passed  through  many  sees  success- 
ively are,  for  shortness,  entitled  only  from  the  last  and  highest 
dignity. 

*  In  Ml  Scel0tot  CanidbritfientUy  MS.  f  Majiiucript  in  I  0. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


11 K0WABD  I.  UNIVBRSITT  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  51 

32.  A  commendable  Ouikm  ofihU  CtXUge. 
To  lettnn  to  Peter  House  :  1  cannot  but  commend  one  peculiar 
practice  of  tills  College,  which  in  their  parlour  presenreth  the  pic- 
tures of  all  their  principal  Benefactors.*  For,  although  the  bounty 
of  the  judicious  is  grounded  on  more  solid  motives,  than  to  be 
flattered  thereinto  by  the  fancy  that  their  e£Sgies  shall  be  kept ;  yet 
such  an  ingenuous  memorial  may  be  an  encouragement  to  a  patron^s 
liberality.  Besides,  under  such  pictures  a  distich  commonly  is 
written,  and  I  will  instance  in  one  of  the  latest  date  :— 

Hartdem  vohdt  Slados  eontcribere  Petrum, 
Ciauderet  eMremum  ne  tine  prole  diem, 

*'  Slade,  Peter  chose,  and  for  hi*  heir  aMign'd  him, 
Lest  he  thoold  die,  and  leaye  no  child  behind  hfm." 

At  this  day  the  College  maintaineth  one  Master,  nineteen  Fel* 
lows,  twenty-nine  Bible-Clerks,  eight  poor  Scholars,  beside  other 
Officers  and  Students  amounting  lately  (namely,  anno  1634)  to  a 
hundred  and  six. 

33—35.  7%e  ddest  Englishr^ndowed  CoUege.    Exception   to   the 
Contrary  answered.     The  Truth  unpartiaUy  stated. 

We  Cambridge-men  behold  this  College  as  the  first  foundation 
endowed  in  England,  which  our  cor-rivals  at  Oxford  will  not  allow. 
For  I  find  it  inscribed  in  Rochester  church,  on  the  monument  of 
Walter  de  Merton,  that  the  College  by  him  founded  and  named  is 
the  example  of  all  in  that  kind.  Mr.  Camden,  in  his  description  of 
Oxford,  affirmeth,  that  Balliol  and  Merton  Colleges  therein  are 
"the  two  first  endowed  for  Students  in  Christendom.'"f  And 
some  allege  that  Merton  College  must  needs  be  the  mother,  and 
Peter-House  but  the^  daughter,  because  Simon  de  Montacute,  bishop 
of  Ely,  did  prescribe  the  statutes  of  Merton  to  be  observed  by  the 
Students  of  Peter  Hoifte. 

All  this  scarce  rooveth — ^nothing  removeth — ^us  from  our  former 
opinion ;  being  almost  as  confident  of  the  seniority  of  Peter  House 
before  all  other  Colleges,  as  Romanists  are  of  the  priority  of  St. 
Peter  before  the  rest  of  the  apostles.  And,  first,  as  for  the  inscrip- 
tion in  Rochester,  both  it  and  Merton'^s  monument  are  modem,  as  set 
up  by  Sir  Henry  Savile,  anno  1598.  That  passage  of  the  great 
antiquary  is  only  extant  in  the  English  translation,  not  Latin  Bri- 
tannia; and  so  may  justly  seem  to  have  more  of  Philemon 
Holland,  than  William  Camden  therein.     It    is   confessed    that 

*  "  These  paintings,"  says  Wilson,  in  his  Memorabilia,  <<  are  on  the  panels  of  the 
wainscoting-of  the  Comhinatlon-Toom."     **  They  are  now  removed  to  the  library.     The 
mottoes  nnder  the  portraits  of    Edward   I.  and    Balsham  were  neat  and  appropriate 
mmgh."  Dteb's  History, — Edit.  t  Britannia,  page  381. 

E    2  Digitized  by  LjOOQIC 


52  HISTORY  OF  THB  a.d.  1319. 

Simon  Montacute,  the  seventeenth  bishop  of  Ely,  more  than  sixty 
years  after  Balsham's  death,  enjoined  our  Petreans  the  observation 
of  Merton-College  statutes,  finding  them  more  convenient  than 
such  which  their  Founder  had  left  them.  But  this  makes  nothing 
to  the  matter  of  most  antiquity,  the  point  in  controversy.  In 
requital  of  this  courtesy,  if  Cambridge  hath  ought  the  imitation 
whereof  may  be  acceptable  to  Oxford,  she  is  right  glad  for  the 
welcome  occasion ;  as,  lately,  Oxford,  in  choice  of  her  Proctors, 
hath  conformed  herself  to  Cambridge-custom,  by  way  of  a  circular 
combination  of  Colleges,  as  a  course  most  quiet,  and  freest  from 
faction. 

The  crisis  of  the  controversy  depends,  if  I  mistake  not,  on  the 
clearing  of  the  different  dates  of  the  foundation  of  Peter  House, 
and  comparing  it  with  others. 

Peter  House  first  founded,  a.d.  1257,  the  forty-first  of 
Henry  III.  by  sub-prior  Hugh  Balsham. 

Petee  House  first  endowed,  a.d.  1282,  the  eleventh  of  Ed- 
ward I.  by  Hugh  Balsham,  bishop  of  Ely. 

Balliol  first  founded  and  endowed,  a.d.  1262,  the  forty-sixth 
of  Henry  III.  by  John  Balliol. 

Meeton  College  first  founded  and  endowed,  a.d.  1274, 
the  second  of  Edward  I.  by  Walter  Merton,  bishop  of  Rochester. 

The  unpartial  result  is  this,  Peter  House  was  founded  before 
any,  but  endowed  (by  the  same  founder)  after  two  Colleges  in  Ox- 
ford. Yet  because,  in  such  doubtful  casts,  it  is  good  reason  Cam- 
bridge should  measure  to  her  own  most  advantage  ;  we  may  safely 
say  that  Peter  House  is  the  first  College  endowed,  though  not 
the  first-endowed  College,  in  England,  and,  by  consequence,  in 
Christendom.* 

t 
36.  Three  Places  for  the  Petreatii  Dewtiom.  [SiLCceasion  of  Chan- 
cellors,    Brawl  hettcixt  Universityrmen  and  Friars.     Bull 
of  Pope  John  XXI.  to    the   University.      12  Edward  II. 
A.D.  1283—1319.] 

The  Students  of  Peter  House  performed  their  Divine  service, 
since  their  first  foundation,  in  three  several  places  ;  namely, 

1.  In  St.  Peter^s  church,  adjoining,  which  fell  down  to  the  ground 
about  the  year  1350. 

2.  In  the  church  of  Beata  Maria  de  Gratia^  commonly  called 
Little  St.  Mary"'s  ;  whence  the  College  also  is  so  called  and  written 
for  some  hundreds  of  years,  hardly  recovering  its  own  name. 

3.  In  a   beautiful    new  chapel,   consecrated  March  17th,  anno 

•  See  note  at  the  end  of  tbis  Section,  page  TO. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


12  EDWARD  II.  UNIVERSITT  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  53 

1632.    A  thousand  pounds  were  spent  in  the  building  thereof,  and 
the  contributors^  names  affixed  in  a  catalogue  therein. 

Hitherto  we  have  had  but  a  desultory  and  uncertain  succession 
of  Chancellors,  but  henceforward  we  may  presume  on  more  assur- 
ance herein. 

Andrew  de  Gisleham,  Chancellor ;  a  bene&ctor  to  the  University. 
A.  D.  1283. 

Thomas  Shermingham,  Chancellor.  He  defended  the  rights  of 
the  University  against  the  prior  of  Barnwell.     1286. 

Stephanus  de  Hepworth,  Chancellor.     1287. 

Ralph  de  Lecester,  Chancellor.  No  good  blood  betwixt  him  and 
the  University  about  the  distinction  of  seats.     1289. 

Galfridus  de  Pakenham,  Chancellor.  He  first  paved  the  town  ; 
towards  the  doing  whereof,  king  Edward  granted  him  to  take  the 
toll  of  Cambridge  for  six  years.     1290. 

The  church  of  St.  Mary"'s  was  this  year  (a.d.  1291)  much 
defaced  with  fire.  At  what  time  the  Jews  (whom  I  will  not  accuse 
as  the  causers  thereof)  were  forced  to  forsake  the  town,  where  they 
had  a  great  synagogue. 

Henry  de  Boyton,  Chancellor.  He  stoutly  defended  the  right 
of  the  University  for  thirty  acres  of  ground  and  four  messuages  in 
Cambridge,  which  Roger  de  Beddingfield  gave  for  ever  to  the 
Master  and  Scholars,  to  defend  their  state  and  privileges.*     1293. 

The  king  came  this  year  (a.  d.  1294)  to  Cambridge,  and  lodged 
two  days  in  the  castle. 

It  was  ordered  that  the  Chancellor  should  not  imprison  or  banish 
any  regent  without  the  consent  of  the  Regent-house,  nor  should  he 
omit  the  same,  if  they  so  appointed  it. 

A  contest  betwixt  the  Chancellor  and  the 'other  doctors  is  com- 
pounded before  the  official  of  the  bishop  of  Ely. 

John  de  Bradenham,  Chancellor,  a.d.  1295. 

Thomas  de  Sheringham,  Chancellor,  1296. 

Stephen  de  Hepworth,  Chancellor,  1299. 

Stephen  de  Haselfield,  Chancellor,  1300. 

The  king  granted,  by  his  charter,  that  Scholars  might  sum- 
mon townsmen  to  appear  before  the  Chancellor,  in  any  personal 
actions. 

A  brawl  began  betwixt  the  University-men  on  the  one  side, 
the  Dominicans  and  Franciscans  on  the  other.  This  increased 
from  words  to  violence ;  and  Stephen  the  Chancellor,  as  a  valiant 
champion,  thundered  his  excommunications  both  general  and  special 
(whereby  his  episcopal  power  plainly  appeareth)  against  the  Friars  ; 
yea,  two  of  the  most  active  of  them,  Nicholas  de  Dale  and  Adam 

•  Manuscript,  m.  w. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


64  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1319. 

de  Hoddon,  seem  to  be  expelled  the  Uniyersity.  Hereupon  the 
friars  appeal  to  the  pope  of  Rome,  and  both  parties  appointed  their 
Proctors  to  solicit  their  suit  :— 

For  the  University. — Stephen  de  Segrave,  Thomas  Kyning- 
ham. 

For  the  Dominicans. — Johnde  Westerfield,  Peter  de  Ruda. 

For  the  Franciscans. — Richard  Lisle,  John  of  Ipswich. 

But,  taking  wit  in  their  way,  considering  the  costliness  of  that 
court,  and  the  long  journey  thither,  they  remitted  the  matter,  at 
Bourdeaux,  to  Thomas,  cardinal  of  St.  Sabine,  who  accorded  them 
on  the  following  conditions  : — * 

1.  That  the  Chancellor  of  Cambridge  should  retract  his  exeom- 
munications  in  the  same  place  wherein  they  were  denounced. 

2.  That  no  act  of  the  Regent-house  should  extend  to  derogate 
from  the  rights  of  the  Friars. 

3.  That  though  by  the  statutes  of  the  University  only  the 
Chancellor,  or  some  by  him  assigned,  were  to  preach  on  the  first 
Advent,  Septuagesima,  and  Ash- Wednesday ;  yet,  nevertheless 
the  Friars  might  freely  preach  the  same  days  and  hours  in  their  own 
convents. 

4.  That  Friar  Nicholas  de  Dale  and  Adam  de  Hoddon,  if 
pleased  to  re^assume  their  places  in  the  University,  should  quietly 
be  admitted,  and  should  have  their  remedy  against  such  who  had 
offered  violence  unto  them,  as  in  such  cases  is  usual  against  the 
disturbers  of  the  peace. 

5.  That  whereas  all  Bachelors  Inceptors  in  Divinity  are  bound 
by  the  statutes  to  preach  ad  Clerum  in  St  Mary's  ;  the  aforesaid 
Friars  might  preach  such  sermons  in  their  own  convents,  first 
acquainting  the  Chancellor  with  the  day  they  chose  for  the  same. 

Some  conceive  this  was  a  drawn  battle  betwixt  them ;  whilst 
*  others  apprehend,  that  the  Friars,  finding  the  most  favour,  came  off 
conquerors,  as  keeping  the  field,  and  making  good  their  ground  m 
this  contention, 

Stephen  de  Segrave,  Chancellor ;  in  whose  absence,  Richard  de 
Ashton  was  his  substitute,     a.d.  1806. 

Stephen  de  Haselfield,  Chancellor,  1307. 

Richard  de  Ashton,  Chancellor,  1315. 

John  XXI.-f-  pope  of  Rome,  at  the  request  of  king  Edward  II* 
granted  the  ensuing  Bull  to  the  University ;  which  the  reader  is 
requested  seriously  to  peruse ;  the  sense  whereof  is  the  subject  of 
some  difference  betwixt  us  and  Oxford. 

Jocmnei  episcopm^  sertus  sertorvm  Dei^  diUctU  filiis  Unitersh 

•  Har*,  Tol.  i.  fol.  29,  30.  t  Bellarmiae  says,  «  Johannes  XXL  dicius  XXH 

1316."— Edit. 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


12  EDWARD  II.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  55 

Mis  Caniabrigiw  Eliensis  dicecesis^  iolutem^  et  apottolieam  benedio- 
timm, — Inter  singula^  qttcB  grcUA  no$  obleetatione  hetifioant^  grandi 
eor  nostrum  reficitwr  gaudio^  et  IcetitiA  extdUxt  exaptatd^  cum  eoe  qui 
coBksH sunt providentid  prcediti^  adpopulorum  regimen  et  regndrum^ 
(id  communem  euljectarum  suorum  pro/ectum  intentoe  aspicimus^  ip^ 
mque  adpublicw  utilitatie  bonum  solicitos  intuemur :  sani  chariui- 
mu8 in  Ghristojilius  nosier^  Editardus rex  Angliw  \illuetri$\ pruden^ 
terattendens^  qttod  muUitudo  sapientum  solus  eat  regnorum^  quddque 
nm  mtnits  prudentium  consilio^  qudm  /ortium  strenuitate  tirorum, 
re^entlum  et  regnorvm  moderamina  disponantur^  apud  Cantabri- 
piam^Eliensis  dioecesis  locum^  in  regno  suo  multis  cammoditatibus  prce- 
ditum^  et  insignem  desiderat  vigere  studium  generate,  et  quod  a  doctor- 
i^us  et  docendis  in  posterumfrequentetuTy  Aumiliter postularit  a  nobis 
uistudium  ab  olim  ibi  ordinatum,  etprivilegia  a  Romanis  pontifici" 
ks prwdecessoribus  nostris  vel  regibus  [Anglice]  qui  fuerint pro  tern- 
pore  eidem  concessa,  apostilico  cwremus  munimine  roborare.  Nos 
igitur  suae  intentionis  propositum,  dignis  in  Domino  laudibus  eom- 
nmdmteSj  ejusque  stipplicationibus  indinati,  apostoltcd  autoritate 
MuimuSy  ut  in  prwdicto  loco  Cantctbrigice  sit  de  ccetero  studium 
gmerah  \iUudqtie  ibidem  tigeat  perpetuisfuturis  temporibus  in  qui- 
lihetfacukaU] :  Tolentes  autoritate prcedictd  et  etiam  decementes,  quod 
coU^ium  magistrorum  et  scholarium  efusdem  studii,  Unitersitas  sit 
censenda,  et  omnibus  juribus  gaudeat,  quibus  gaudere  potest  et  debet 
Vniisersttas  quoBcmique  legitimi  ordinata.  Cceterilm  omnia  prim- 
^id  et  induUa,  prcedicto  studio^  rationabiliter  a  pontifidbus  et 
'''^gihus  prcedictis  concessa,  autoritate  prcedictd  confirmamus,  NvMi 
igituromnind  liceat  kancpaginam  nostri  statuti,  voltmtatis,  constitu- 
tionis^  et  confirmationis  infringere,  ml  ausu  temerario  contraire :  si 
pis  autem  hoc  attempta/re  prcesumpserit,  indignationem  Omnipo- 
tmtis  Dei,  et  beatorum  Petri  et  Pauli  apostolorum,  noterit  se 
incursv/rvm,  Dat,  Amnionce  5  Idas  Julii,  ponti^catus  nostri  anno 
iecundo* 

This  year,  (1319,)  according  to  the  computation  of  Helvicus, 
fells  out  to  be  the  year  of  our  Lord  1317,  and  the  eleventh  of  the 
J^eign  of  king  Edward  11.  though,  to  gratify  the  Oxford  antiquary, 
^e  have  here  follovred  his  account  in  our  marginal  chronology. 

«^7'  A  necessary  Caution.     Studium  and  Universitas  the  same  in 
Effect.    A.D.  1319. 

Now,  let  none  conceive  Cambridge  (long  since  the  mother  of 
many  children)  now  but  new-born,  herself  an  University  from  the 
date  of  this  papal  instrument.     A  mistake  of  many,  alleging,  for 

*  A  few  of  the  principal  variations  which  occnr  between  this  copy  and  Dyer's  tran- 
script of  thia  Bnfl,  I  have  here  enclosed  .within  crotchets. — Edit. 


Digiti 


zedbyLiOOgle 


66  HISTORY  OF  THK  a.d.  I32i. 

the  defence  of  their  error,  that  otherwise  it  were  ridiculous  for  our 
king  to  request,  and  the  pope  to  confer,  on  Cambridge,  what  slie 
had  already  ;  adding  moreover,  that  the  phrase  de  coBtero^  "  for  the 
time  to  come,"^  implieth,  that  de  prcetm^ito^  "  for  the  time  past," 
Cambridge  was  no  University.  But  let  such  know,  that  in  this 
Bull  Cambridge  is  confessed  a  place  for  students  time  out  of  mind, 
or  (to  use  the  pope"'s  Latin)  ab  olim ;  where  olim  (a  word  of  inde- 
finite extent)  is  not  made  the  measure  of  the  antiquity  of  Cambridge, 
but  (which  is  more)  is  only  the  terminus  a  qtw  whence  her  duration 
in  her  learned  capacity  is  dated.  This  Bull  also  relateth  *to  an- 
cient privileges  of  popes  and  princes,  bestowed  upon  her;  which 
herein  are  roborated  and  confirmed.* 

Know  also  that  Studium  and  Unhersitas  are  synonymes,  though 
the  latter  the  more  fashionable  word  in  this  age.f  Nor  is  it  any 
news  for  popes  officiously  to  court  kings  for  their  own  ends,  with 
cheap  courtesies,  by  granting  what  in  effect  was  given  before,  and 
varnishing  over  their  predecessors'  old  acts  with  new  specious  ex- 
pressions. We  have  pUinly  proved,  out  of  plentiful  records  in  the 
Tower,  Cambridge  called  an  University  in  the  king'^s  charters  more 
than  seventy  years  before,  and  so  no  doubt  before  the  Conquest; 
though'  that  her  title,  in  the  troublesome  times  of  war,  had  been 
disturbed  and  interrupted.  As  therefore  the  seniority  of  scholars, 
who  have  long  discontinued,  is  justly  reckoned,  not  from  their 
return  to  the  College,  but  from  their  first  admission  therein;  so 
the  Universityship  of  Cambridge  is  to  be  accounted  fi'oin  her  on- 
ginal  constitution,  not  this  her  late  confirmation. 

38,  A  fdcile  Mistake. 
Nor  are  we  much  moved  with  what  is  alleged    in   this  point 
out  of  Robert  Remington ;    and    take  the  words  as  Twyne  the 

•  Dyer,  when  quoting  this  paragraph  with  appiohation,  s^ys,  **  There  Is  no  room  o 
doubt  the  authenticity  of  this  BuU  j  and  I  shall  go  farther,  and  introduce  the  following 
flourishing  testimony  of  Dr.   FuUer."— Edit.  t  After  citing  this  sentence, 

Dyer  thus  reasons  on  it  :—<<  Now,  admitting  that  the  word  Studium  may  he  some- 
times the   same    as   Studium  generahy  and  synonymous  with  ^  University  y*  ^y 
instance,   Studium   Parisiense,  for  <the   University  of    Parb/  in  an  instrument  o 
this  John's,  quoted  by  Twyne,  and  Studium  Bononics,  quoted  by  Dufresne,  for 
University  of   Bononia  j '    still  this    is  not  necessarily  its  meaning,  and  it  ^*y 
interpreted,  *  any  place  for  study  in  general : '  and  the  order  preserved  in  the  pre^ 
BuU  seems  to  require  that  distinction  here.     It  had  been  a  Studium  for  learaed  men, 
the  pope  confirms  this  Studium,  and  farther  authorizes  it  in  future  to  be  a  GeneraU 
dium.     This  interpretation,  if  admitted,  will,   without  the  arguments   just  advaac   , 
invalidate  the  authenticity  of  the  former  Bulls.     It  would  show,  that,  whatever  pn^" 
leges  other  popes  or  kings  granted  to  this  learned  body,  to  which  pope  John  alludes 
this  Bull,  still  it  wanted  that  peculiar  grant  of  pontifical  authority  which  would  bind  i% 
more  immediately  to  his  interest,  by  that  magical  talisman  of  a  word—*  University  > 
and,  subsequently,  that  the  former  Bulls,  [those  of  Honorius  and  Sergius,]  in  which  tn 
word  occurs,  are  fabricationB,  and  no  genuine  instruments.'' — Edit. 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


\7  EDWARD  II.  UNIVSRSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  57 

Oxford  antiquary  doth  manage  them  the  roost  for  his  own  advan- 
tage:—♦ 

Regnante  Edwardo  primo  (secundo  diceret)  de  Studio  Grant- 
bridge  facta  est  Uni'oersitaSy  sicut  est  Oxonium^  per  curiam  Roma^ 
nam :  '^  In'  the  reign  of  Edward  the  first  (he  should  have  said 
Edward  the  second)  Cambridge  was  made  an  University,  even  as 
Oxford,  by  the  court  of  Rome."" 

See  we  here  Remington  mistakes,  even  by  his  confession  who 
citeth  him  in  his' own  behalf.  Now,  he  who  faults  in  one  thing 
may  even  &il  in  another.  He  that  mistook  Edward  the  first  for 
Edward  the  second  may,  by  as  easy  an  error,  mistake  facta  for 
refecta^  the  "  institution "'  for  the  "  restitution  '^  of  Cambridge. 

Roger  de  Northburge,  Chancellor.  He  obtained  licence  from 
the  king,  that  the  University  might  purchase  advowsons  of  spi- 
ritual livings,  to  the  value  of  forty  pounds  per  annum.f  Indeed, 
king  Edward  was  courteous  to  Cambridge,  wherein  he  maintained 
thirty-two  scholars  on  his  own  cost;  intending  to  build  King^s 
Hall,  which  his  son  and  successor  did  perform,     a.d.  1321. 

39.  Michael  ffaiise  fotmded  by  Henoeus  Stanton.    A.D.  1324. 

Herveus  (falsely  in  some  copies  Henricus)  de  Stanton,  clerk, 
canon  of  York  and  Wells,  rector  of  East  Dereham  and  North 
Creik  in  Norfolk,  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  to  king  Edward  II. 
flourished  now  in  great  wealth  and  esteem.  Let  none  envy  him 
his  pluralities,  who  so  well  employed  the  profits  thereof,  and  this 
year  founded  a  College,  following  the  example  of  Hugh  de  Bals- 
ham,  but  dedicating  it  to  St.  Michael,  the  chief  of  angels ;  as  the 
other  had  consecrated  his  to  St.  Peter,  the  prime  of  apostles. 

Masters. — ^1.  Roger  Burton,  B.D.  2.  Mr.  Robs,  alias 
Roob.  3.  Mr.  Thomas  Kenningham.  4.  Mr  John  Rympham. 
5.  Mr.  Richard  Langley.  6.  Mr.  William  Gotham.  7-  Mr. 
William  Colvill.  8.  Mr.  Henry  jDranby.  9.  Mr  John  Ottering- 
ham.  10.  Mr.  Willam  Ayscough.  11.  Edward  Story.  12.  John 
Yotton.  13.  John  Foothead.  14.  Tho.  Slackhouse.  15.  Nichol 
Willan.     16.  Francis  Mallet,  chaplain  to  queen  Mary. 

Beijefactoes. — 1.  Alexander  Walsham,  knight,  heirtoHervey 
the  Founder.  2.  Walter  de  Waney.  3.  John  Ilvey,  knight,  a 
grand  benefactor.  4.  William  Gotham.  5.  John  Turke.  6.  Henry 
Craby. 

Bishops. — ^1.  William  Ayscough,  bishop  of  Salisbury.  2.  Ed- 
ward Story,  bishop  of  Chichester.  3.  John  Fisher,  bishop  of 
Rochester.  J 

*  Ant,  Acad.  Oxford  Apol.  lib.  i.  page  110.  t  Manutcript  M.  w.  t  See 

more  hereof  jn  out  "  History,"  anno  1636,  vol.  ii.  pp.  69 — 64.  ^ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


58  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1326. 

Learned  Writer.— John  Fisher. 

Livings  in  the  College  Gift.— 1.  Barrington  vicarage,  in 
Ely  diocess,  valued  £^.  14».  4e?.  2.  Gronsburgh  [Grundisburgh 
rectoryj,  in  the  diocess  of  Norwich,  valued  £VJ,  11^.  3rf. 
3.  Orwell  rectory,  in  Ely  diocess.,  valued  J*19.  7«.  Id.  loft. 

At  this  day  Michael  House  is  included  in  Trinity  College ;  so 
called,  not  only  because  dedicated  to  God,  One  in  Three  Persons, 
but  also  because  made  by  king  Henry  VIII.  one  of  three  Col- 
leges ;  whereof  (God  willing)  largely  hereafter. 

40,  41.  University  HaU  built  by  Richard  Badew.  A.D.  1326. 
Rebuilt  (after  it  wm  burnt)  by  Elizaheth  Countess  of  Glare, 
and  named  Clare  HalL 

Richard  Badew,  Chancellor,  a.d.  1326. 

He  bought  two  tenements  in  Miln-street,  of  Neile  Thornton,  a 
physician  ;  and  on  that  ground  built  a  small  College,  by  the  name 
of  University  Hall,  placing  a  Principal  therein,  under  whom  scho- 
lars lived  on  their  own  expenses.*  This  Richard  Badew  [or  Bad- 
dow]  was  of  a  knightly  family,  bom  at  Great  Baddow,  nigh  Chelms- 
ford in  Essex,  and  employed  all  his  estate  to  the  advancement  of 
learning. 

Sixteen  years  did  students  continue  in  University  Hall  on  their 
own  charges ;  but  a  casual  fire  reduced  their  House  to  ashes. 
Here,  by  [the]  way,  whosoever  shall  consider  in  both  Universities 
the  ill  contrivance  of  many  chimneys,  hollowness  of  hearths,  shal- 
lowness of  tunnels,  carelessness  of  coals  and  candles,  catchingness  of 
papers,  narrowness  of  studies,  late  reading  and  long  watching  of 
scholars,  cannot  but  conclude,  that  an  especial  Providence  pre- 
serveth  th^pe  places.  How  small  a  matter  hath  sometimes  made  a 
partition  betwixt  the  fire  and  the  fuel  I  Thus  an  hair's  breadth, 
fixed  by  a  Divine  finger,  shall  prove  as  effectual  a  separation  from 
danger  as  a  mile's  distance.  And  although  both  Universities  have 
had  sad  accidents  in  this  kind,  yet  neither  in  number  nor  nature 
(since  the  Reformation)  so  destructive  as  in  other  places  :  so  that, 
blessed  be  God !  they  have  been  rather  gcare-fires  than  hurt-fires 
unto  them. 

But,  to  return  to  Mr.  Badew,  who,  sadly  beholding  the  ruins  of 
his  Hall,  perceived  that  the  re-building  thereof  was  a  work  too 
weighty  for  himself,  (though  a  man  of  worship,)  so  that  some 
person  of  honour  must  undertake  it.  And  here  happily  a  worthy 
lady  presents  herself,  Elizabeth,  third  sister  and  co-heir  of  Gilbert 
earl    of  Clare,  wife  of  John  de  Burge,  lord  of  Connaught,  and 

•  Scot's  «  yaWes"  say  «  at  the  charges  of  the  University.''    • 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


Id  EDWABD II.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE*  59 

mother  to  William  de  Buige,  last  earl  of  Ulster,  who  built  it  again 
of  her  own  proper  cost,  endowed  and  called  it  Clare  HalL* 

Masters.—!.  Walter  Thazted.  2.  Ralph  Kerdington.  3.  John 
Dunwich.  4.  John  Chatteress.  5.  Will.  Hadwinter.  6.  Will. 
Wimble-t  7.  Will.  Wilfleet.  8.  Will.  Millington.  9.  Thomas 
Stoyl.  10.  Richard  Stubs.  11.  Gabriel  Silvester.  12.  Will. 
Woodhons.  13.  Edm.  Naturess.  14.  John  Crayford.  15.  Rowl. 
Swinbom.  16.  John  Madew.  17.  Thomas  Barly.  18.  £dmund 
Leeds.  19.  Thomas  Binge.  20.  William  Smith.  21.  Robert 
Scot.  22.  Thomas  Pask.  23.  Dr.  Ralph  Cudworth.  24.  Theo- 
philos  Dillingham. 

Benefactors. — John  Thazto,  Edith  Green,  William  Ducket, 
Will.  Worleigh,  Will.  Marshall,  Ralph  Srivemar,  Thomas  Cave; 
Dr.  Stoyl,  Dr.  Naturess,  Dr.  Leeds,  Dr.  Scot,  Masters  of  this  • 
Hall.  Thomas  Cecil,  earl  of  Exeter,  and  his  lady  Dorothy,  who 
gave  ^108  per  annwny  in  very  good  rent.  William  Butlcr.J 
John  Freeman,  Esq.  who  gave  jP2()()0.  George  Ruggle,  Fellow  of 
the  College:  he  gave  in  money  and  plate  above  J?400.  Sir 
Robert  Heath,  Mr.  Thomas  Binge,  Humphrey  Hide,  Rob.  John- 
son, Esq.  Mr.  Erasmus  Farrar,  Mr.  Will.  Briden,  Mr.  Thomas 
Croply. 

Bishops. — Nicholas  Heath,  archbishop  of  York.  Augustine 
Lynsel,  bishop  of  Hereford. 

Learned  Writers. — John  Bois,  dean  of  Canterbury,  writer 
of  the  learned  Postils.  Richard  Thompson.  Augustine  Lynsel. 
He  set  forth  (when  bishop  of  Peterborough)  Theophylact  in  Greek 
(never  before  in  print)  on  all  St.  Paul''s  epistles. 

Livings  in  the  Gift  of  the  College. — 1.  Litlington 
vicarage,  in  Ely  diocess,  valued  jP5. 19«.  9c?.  2.  Everton  vicarage,' 
in  Lincoln  diocess,  valued  £b.  13«.  &2.  3.  Grandsden*  vicarage, 
Lincoln  diocess,  valued  J&3.  7'«  2(?. 

So  that  lately,  (namely,  anno  1634,)  therein  were  maintained 
one  Master,  eighteen  Fellows,  thirty-six  Scholars,  beside  Officers 
and  Servants  of.  the  foundation,  and  other  Students ;  the  whole 
number  being  an  hundred  and  six. 

It  were  presumption  in  me  to  disturb  this  method  of  Masters, 
agreed  on  by  Dr.  Caius,  Mr.  Parker,  and  others*  Otherwise,  I  would 
prepose  Millington  (first  Provost  afterwards  of  Kings's  in  the  reign 

*  In  the  deed  of  endoiraaent,  this  liberal  lady  states  her  motiTes  to  be  '^  a  desire  for 
tlie  extension  of  every  branch  of  usefal  learning,  that  there  might  no  longer  remain  an 
excuse  for  ignorance  ;  and  to  create  a  firmer  concord  and  closer  nnion  among  mankind, 
by  the  civilizing  effects  of  indulgence  in  liberal  study.''— Edit.  t  Betwixt  these 

two,  Cains  placeth  William  Gall,  not  onmed  by  others.  t  See  more  of  him  at  his 

death,  anna  1617  [in  this  vol.  sect.  iz.  par.  4.] 


Digitized  by 


Google 


60  BISTORY  OF  THE  a. d.  1332. 

of  king  Henry  VI.)  before  Wilfleet,  Master  under  king  Richard  III. 
I  would  also  set  Swinbom,  both  before  and  after  Madew. 

Stoinbomum  Madew  sequitur,  Mctdetoque  vicissim 
Sivmbomum  ;  sorter  ver^at  utrinque  Detu. 

For  it  appeareth  in  Mr.  Fox,  that,  after  Madew'^s  expulsion  for 
being  married,  Swinbom  succeeded  him.* 

42 — 44.  Bichard  III,  a  (seeming)  Benefactor  to  Clare  Hall 
This  Hall  long  chapel-less.     Solere  the  same  with  Clare  HoU. 

I  have  read  how  Richard  III.  pretended  himself  descended  from 
the  foundress  of  this  Hall,  (which  I  account  of  more  truth  than  his 
claim  and  title  to  the  English  crown,)  and  on  that  consideration, 
tyrannidi  suce  fucatum  literarum  patrocinium  mendaci  fronte 
obtendens,  saith  my  author,-}-  hfe  challenged  the  patronage  of  this 
Hall  (when  William  Wilfleet  was  Master)  to  himself.  But  if  no 
better  patron  to  this  House  than  protector  to  his  own  nephews,  his 
courtesy  might  well  have  been  spared.  And  because  I  find  him 
omitted  in  Scot's  last  "Tables'*'  (drawn  up,  no  doubt,  by  the  con- 
sent of  this  College)  amongst  the  benefactors,  I  suspect  this  his  feet 
as  a  flourish,  (at  which  art  he  was  excellent,)  rather  than  any  real 
favour  to  this  foundation. 

Long  was  it  ere  this  Hall  got  a  chapel  to  itself,  (namely,  till  the 
year  1535,)  all  which  time  possibly  they  did  their  public  devotions 
in  that  aisle  of  St.  Edward's  church,  wherein  anciently  their  Masters 
and  Fellows  were  interred. 

This  Clare  Hall  was  also  called  Solere  Hall  in  the  days  of  Chau- 
cer, as  our  antiquary  hath  observed  : — ^t 

"  And  namely  there  was  a  great  College  ; 

Men  depen  it  the  Solere  Hall  of  Cambridge."  § 

Some  will  say,  "And  whence  termed  Solere  Hall  ?  Was  it  not  from 
Solarium^  which  in  the  Latin  of  that  age  signified  'a  fair  and  light 
chamber  ? '  Or  is  it  not  mistaken  in  pronouncing  and  printing  for 
ScoUer  Hall,  as  otherwhiles  it  is  written  ?  "  But  the  matter  is  not 
much ;  and  whoso  seeks  a  reason  of  all  proper  names  of  places,  may 
seek  it. 

45.  The  Hall  lately  re-edified. 

This  aged  Hall,  grown  very  ruinous,  was  lately  taken  down  and 
re-edified  by  the  bounty  of  several  benefactors.  ||  Mr.  Barnabas  01ey> 

•  In  cardinal  Pole's  visitation  of  Cambridge  in  the  reign  of  queen  Mary.  t  ^^' 

ktos  Cantabrigiensis,  made  by  R.  Parker.  X  Caius,  Hiatoria  Cantab.  Acad. 

page  67.  §  Chaucer  in  the  Reve's  tale.  ||  Dyer  says,  "The  College, 

restored  by  the  fomidress,  ^vas  again  destroyed  by  fire,  at  least,  in  part — the  Masters 
lodge,  the  treasury,  and,  among  other  papers,  the  archives.  However,  the  College  vaa 
new-built,  and  the  first  stone  laid,  May  19th,  1638."— Edit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1  EDWARD  III.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDOB.  01 

late  Fellow  of  this  House,  and  Proctor  of  the  University,  may  truly 
be  termed  ^^  master  of  the  fabric,^  so  industrious  and  judicious  was 
he  in  overseeing  the  same.  Nor  was  he  like  the  foolish  builder 
that  could  not — ^but  the  unhappy  that  might  not — ^finish  his  work, 
being  outed  the  College,  on  the  account  of  the  Covenant.  Had 
this  structure  been  perfected  according  to  the  first  design,  no  fault 
could  have  been  found  therewith,  except  that  the  brightness  and 
beauty  thereof  should  make  the  blear  eyes  of  our  envious  age  to 
smart,  much  grudging  at  the  decency,  more  at  the  magnificence,  of 
the  Muses.  Yet  I  cannot  believe,  what  I  read,  that  three  or  four 
hundred  pounds^  worth  of  timber,  brought  hither  for  the  repair  of 
this  Hall,  was  lately  taken  away.*  Yea,  had  I  seen  it,  I  would 
not  have  believed  mine  own  eyes,  but  rather  suspected  my  sight, 
that  some  requisite  to  right  sensation  was  wanting  in  me,  and  the 
fault  either  in  the  organ,  medium,  object,  or  undue  distance 
thereof.-f- 

Thomas  de  Foxton,  Chancellor,  Doctor  of  the  Laws,  a.i>.  1329. 

John  de  Langley,  Chancellor,  Doctor  of  Divinity ;  John  de 
Shipeden,  and  Thomas  de  Bucknam,  Proctors.     1331. 

46.  King  Edward  foundeth  King's  Hall.     7  Edward  III. 
A.D.  1332. 

King  Edward  III.  understanding  it  was  his  father^s  intention  to 
erect  a  College  in  Cambridge,  in  order  whereunto  he  had  for  some 
years  maintained  thirty-two  Scholars  in  the  University,  (occasioning 
the  mistake  of  John  Rouse,  reporting  he  built  a  College  therein,) 
laid  the  foundation  of  Kings's  Hall,|  out  of  some  remorse  that  he  had 
consented  to  the  death  of  so  affectionate  a  father ;  as  one  so  trans- 
ported with  the  news  of  the  birth  of  his  son,  that  he  gave  to  one 
John  Langer,  a  knight,  three  hundred  potmds  pro  prima  rrnnore^ 
quern  idem  Johannes  tulit  JEdvardo  sectmdoy  de  natimtate  filii  sui^ 
with  a  pension  paid  unto  him  many  years  after.§ 

Masters. — 1.  Mr.  Thomas  Powis.  2.  Mr.  Thomas  Hetorset. 
[Hetherset.]  3.  Mr.  Radulph  Selbie.  4.  Mr.  Richard  Dearham. 
5.  Mr.  John  Stone.  6.  Mr.  Richard  Holmes.  7-  Mr.  Robert 
Pitzhugh.     8.  Mr.  Richard  Cawdery.     9.  Mr.  Robert  Ayscough. 

•  Querela  Cantabrigiensisy  page  14.  '      t  See  animadversions  on  these  two 

sentences  in  '<  The  Appeal  of  Injured   Innocence,"  hook  xi.  part  2.  X  In 

Camhridge,  Colleges  and  HcUU  are  considered  synonymood  expressions;  a  HaU  not 
being  dissimilar  to  a  College,  either  in  its  constitution  or  its  endowment,  and, 
consequently,  neither  of  them  qualified  to  claim  any  superiority  over  the  other. 
Thus  Clare  HaU  is  called  Collegium,  sive  Domus,  give  Atda  de  Clare.— In  Oxford,  the 
five  Halls  are  all  inferior  to  the  Colleges  ;  hecause,  though  suhject,  as  learned  societies, 
to  the  same  internal  regulations  as  the  Colleges,  yet,  not  heing  incorporated,  the  property 
belonging  to  each  of  them  is  held  in  trust  hy  the  University. — Edit.  §  PcU, 

Edwardi  111,  Rot,  it.  membrana  7. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


62  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1332. 

10.  Mr.  Richard  Listrope.    [Scroope.]     11.  Mr.  Henry  Booste. 
12.  Mr.  Richard  le  Scroope.     13.  Mr.  Galfride  Blyth. 

Benefactoes. — King  Richard  II.  gave  £53  yearly,  out  of  the 
manor  of  Chesterton,  &c.  in  lieu  of  much  they  formerly  received 
out  of  the  Exchequer  with  much  trouble,  and,  over  and  above, 
^0  yearly  out  of  the  pensions  of  several  abbeys.  Khig  Henry 
IV.  gave  them  leave  to  pluck  down  the  stately  Hall  in  Cambridge 
Castle,  therewith  to  build  their  chapel.  King  Henry  VI.  gave 
them  one  hundred  and  twenty  volumes,  and  freed  them  from  all 
accounting  in  the  Exchequer.  King  Edward  IV.  gave  them  eight 
marks,  to  be  paid  by  the  sheriff  of  Cambridgeshire  yearly,  thereby 
'  to  buy  two  robes. 

Bishops. — Robert  Fitzhugh,  bishop  of  London,  1431. 

Learned  Weitees.- — 

College  Livings. — Felmersham  vicarage,  Lincoln  diocess, 
valued  at  <£^13.  ISs.  4d.  Henclesham,  Norwich  diocess,  - — •• 
Grindon  vicarage,  [Glendon  rectory,]  Peterborough  diocess,  valued 

at  «^8.   St.  Mary's,  Cantab.  Ely  diocess, .   Chesterton  vicarage, 

Ely  diocess,  valued  at  «€^10.  12*.  3d. 

I  had  put  pope  Eugenius  IV.  in  the  catalogue  of  benefectors  to 
this  Hall,  till  I  had  discovered  his  bounty  resolved  into  a  point  of 
revenge.  For,  at  the  instance  of  king  Henry  VI.  he  possessed  on 
this  Hall  of  the  Rectory  of  Chesterton,  nigh  Cambridge,  formerly 
engrossed  (as  many  other  English  benefices  in  that  agQ)  by  an 
alien,  William  bishop  of  Milan,  from  whom  the  pope  extorted  it,* 
because  he  sided  against  him  with  Amadeus  duke  of  Savoy  {aliis 
pope  Felix  V.)  in  the  Council  of  Basil. 

47 — 49.  Three  Eminences  of  this  Hall.  Tempora  mutantur.  The 
Happiness  of  this  HaU. 

This  Hall  then  surpassed  any  College  in  the  University,  in  a 
threefold  respect.  1.  For  building ;  being  of  such  receipt  that  it 
could  entertain  the  king's  court,  without  disturbance  to  the  stu- 
dents. 2.  For  lands ;  though  not  effectually  endowed  by  king 
Edward,  till  about  the  end  of  his  reign,  for  the  maintenance  of  one 
Custos  and  thirty-three  Scholars  under  him.  3.  For  learning; 
many  grave  Seniors  residing  therein ;  so  that  this  house  was  ac- 
counted oraculum  Academioe.f 

The  greater  therefore  our  grief,  that  for  want  of  intelligence  (all 
the  Records  of  this  Hall  being  lost)  our  column  for  learned  writers 
standeth  so  empty  herein.  This  Hall  at  this  day  is  united  with 
others  in  Trinity  College,  on  the  north  gate  whereof  standeth  the 
stately  statue  of  king  Edward  III.  in  armour. 

•  R.  Parker  in  Sceletos  Cantab,  ms.  t  Tdem,  ibid. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQ  l€ 


7  tnWARD  III.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  63 

We  must  not  forget  how  the  Master  and  Fellows  of  this  House 
were  complained  of,  that  they  did  Epicure  it  in  daily  exceedings  ; 
as,  indeed,  wheie  should  men  fare  well,  if  not  in  a  King''s  Hall  ? 
Hereupon  they  of  their  own  accord  petitioned  king  Henry  IV.  that 
they  might  be  stinted,  not  to  exceed  weekly  eighteen— or  at  the 
highest  twenty — ^pence  in  their  commons  ;  the  last  two-pence  being 
allowed  them  only  in  case  of  deamess  of  victuaLs  and  festival 
solemnities.* 

This  House  had  one  peculiar  happiness,  being  of  royal  descent 
of  both  sides :  I  mean,  founded  by  king  Edward  III.  the  founder 
of  the  two  Houses  of  York  and  Lancaster,  both  deriving  them- 
selves from  his  body.  Hence  it  was,  that,  during  the  civil  wars,  it 
found  &vour  from  tlie  kings  of  both  lines :  whereas  afterwards  such 
Colleges  which  were,  as  I  may  say,  but  of  the  half-blood,  built 
either  by  some  prince  of  Lancaster  or  York,  felt  in  process  of  time 
the  anger  of  the  one,  because  of  the  love  of  the  other.  Queen'^s 
College  may  be  partly,  and  Eling^s  College  too  plainly,  a  pregnant 
instance  thereof. 

50.  Privileges  granted  by  King  Edward  III.  to  the  University. 

Nor  was  king  Edward  bountiful  to  this  Hall  alone,  but  a  great 
benefactor  to  the  whole  University,  on  which  he  conferred  privileges, 
whereof  these  the  principal : — 

1.  The  mayor  of  the  town  should  make  assay  of  the  bread, 
(whether  the  weight  according  to  statute,)  as  oft  as  the  Vice- 
Chancellor  should  require  him. 

2.  That  the  Chancellor  should  receive  the  oaths  of  the  mayor, 
baiUffs,  and  aldermen. 

3.  That  licence  should  be  given  to  the  University  to  appropriate 
any  church  thereunto  of  forty  pounds^  yearly  revenue. 

4  That  the  Chancellor  should  not  be  disquieted  for  the  impri- 
soning of  such  offenders  whom  he  conceived  deserving  the  same. 

5.  That  such  ^ho  [were]  imprisoned  by  the  Vice-Chancellor, 
should  not  be  set  free  by  the  king^s  writ. 

6.  That  Masters  of  Arts  should  not  be  cited  out  of  the  Univer- 
sity into  the  Court  of  Christianity. 

7.  That  the  Chancellor  should  take  cognizance  of  all  causes 
wherein  Scholars  were  concerned,  these  of  maim  and  felonies  only 
excepted. 

Many  immunities  of  lesser  consequence  did  this  king  bestow  on 
Cambridge,  here  too  tedious  to  be  repeated,  krgely  exemplified  and 
carefully  preserved  in  the  Univeisity-rouniments. 

*  Caius,  HMoria  Cant,  Aead.  lib.  i.  page  66. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


64  HISTORY  OF  THE  i.t>.  1343. 

Robert  de  Mildenhall,  Doctor  of   Divinity,  Chancellor,  a.d. 

Henry  de  Herwarden,  Doctor  of  Law,  Chancellor,  1335. 
Richard  de  Harling,  Doctor  of  Law,  Chancellor,  1337- 
Robert  de  Lung,  Chancellor,  1339. 

51,  52.  A   German  Marquess  made   Earl  of  Cambridge^  A.D. 
1340 ;  and  a  Belgian  Earl,  A.  D.  1342. 

William,  marquess  of  Juliers,  is  created  by  king  Edward  III. 
the  fourth  earl  of  Cambridge,  accounting  this  less  honour  no  degra- 
dation, but  advancement  unto  him  ;  nor  the  motion  retrograde  from 
a  German  marquess,  to  an  English  earl,  whilst  graced  with  the  title 
of  so  famous  an  University.  And  this  still  justifies  our  former 
observation,  that  (the  first  earl  alone  excepted)  none  were  dignified 
with  the  title  of  Cambridge,  but  either  foreign  free  princes,  or  some 
nearly  allied  to  the  royal  blood  of  England. 

This  year  John  earl  of  Hainault,  brother  to  queen  Philippa,  wife 
to  king  Edward  IIL  was  created  the  fifth  earl  of  Cambridge.  And 
here  may  the  reader  take  notice,  that  I  meet  with  a  difiPerence  in 
authors  ;  some  making  this  John  first  earl'  of  Cambridge  :  on  whose 
forfeiture  thereof,  (for  his  siding  with  the  French  king,)  king  Edward 
conferred  the  same  on  William  the  foresaid  marquess  of  Juliers. 
Others  make  the  said  marquess  earl  of  Cambridge,  before  John  earl 
of  Hainault  was  graced  with  the  title.  All  agree  that  both  were 
earls  thereof;  and  the  transposition  of  them  is  no  whit  material  to 
our  History  of  the  University. 

53,  54.  Mary  de  Saint  Paul  founds  Pembroke  Hall,  and  Denny 
Abbey.    A.D.  1343. 

Mary  de  Saint  Paul,  daughter  to  Guido  Castillion  earl  of  Saint 
Paul  in  France,  third  wife  to  Audomare  de  Valentia  earl  of  Pem- 
broke,— maid,  wife,  and  widow  all  in  a  day,  (her  husband  being 
unhappily  slain  at  a  tilting  at  her  nuptials,)  sequestered  herself  on 
that  sad  accident  from  all  worldly  delights,  bequeathed  her  soul  to 
God,  and  her  estate  to  pious  uses,  amongst  which  this  a  principal, 
— ^that  she  founded  in  Cambridge  the  College  of  Mary  de  Valen- 
tia,* commonly  called  Pembroke  Hall.  She  survived  the  death 
of  her  husband  forty-two  years,  and  died  full  of  days  and  good 

*  In  the  celebrated  gpeecli  of  Sir  Symonds  D'Ewes,  iA  the  House  of  Commons,  he 
makes  the  foUowing  mention  of  this  College: — ''The  most  ancient  and  first-endovved 
College  in  England  ^^as  Valence  College  in  Cambridge,  \rhich,  after  the  fomidatioa 
thereof,  as  appears  by  one  of  8ur  Parb'amentary  Rolls  remaining  npon  record  in  tlie 
Tower  of  London,  received  the  new  name  or  appellation  of  Pembroke  Hall.  It  is  in 
Rot.  Parliam.  de  anno  38  Henrici  VI.  num.  31." — Edit. 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


18  E0WABD  III.  UNIVRRSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  65 

deeds :  a  Hall  afterwaids  much  augmented  by  the  beneiaction  of 
otheis. 

Masters. — ^1^  Thomas  de  Bingham.  2«  Robert  de  Thorp. 
3.  Richard  de  Morris.  4.  John  Tinmew.  5.  John  Sudbury. 
6.  John  Langton.  7*  Hugh  Dainlet.  8.  Laurence  Booth.  9. 
Thomas  Rotherham.  10.  George  Fitzhugh.  11.  Roger  Leybume. 
12.  Richard- Fox.  13.  Robert  Shorten.  14.  Robert  Swinburne. 
15.  George  Folburie.  16.  Nicholas  Ridley.  17.  John  Young. 
18.  Edmund  Grindal.  19.  Matthew  Hutton.  20.  John  Whit- 
gift.  21.  John  Young.  22.  William  Fulke.  23.  Lancelot  An- 
drews. 24.  Samuel  Harsenet.  25.  Nicholas  Felton.  26.  Jerom 
Beale.  27-  Benjamin  Laney.  28.  Richard  Vines.  29.  Sidrach 
Simpson. 

Benefactors. — ^1.  Henry  VI.  2.  Edward  Story.  3,  4. 
Gerhard  and  Nicholas  Shipwith.  5.  Dr.  Atkinson.  6.  William 
Hussy,  knight.  7-  Charles  Booth.  8.  Roger  Strange,  knight. 
9.  Dr.  Watts.  10.  William  Marshall.  11,  12.  William  and 
Alice  Smart.  13.  Jane  Cox,  widow.  14.  John  Langton.  15. 
Laurence  Booth.  16.  Thomas  Scot,  cUids  Rotherham.  17*  Rich- 
ard Fox.  18.  Dr.  Shorten.  19.  Edmund  Grindal.  20.  John 
Whitgift.     21.  William  Fulke.     22.  Lancelot  Andrews. 

Bishops.— ^1.  William  Bottlesham,  bishop  of  Rochester.  2. 
WiUiam  Linwoode,  bishop  of  St.  David's.  3.  John  Langton, 
bishop  of  St.  David's.  4.  Laurence  Booth,  archbishop  of  York.* 
5.  Thomas  Rotherham,  archbishop  of  York.  6.  Edward  Story, 
bishop  of  Chichester.  7.  Thomas  Langton,  bishop  of  Winchester, 
8.  RichardFoxe,  bishop  of  Winchester.  9.  William  Smith,  bishop 
of  Lincoln.  10.  Roger  Leyburiie,  bishop  of  Carlisle.  11.  Nicholas 
Ridley,  bishop  of  London.  12.  John  Christopherson,  bishop  of 
Chichester.  13.  Edmund  Grindal,  archbishop  of  Canterbury.  14. 
John  Young,  bishop  of  Rochester.  16.  Matthew  Hutton,  arch- 
bishop of  York.  16.  John  Whitgift,  archbishop  of  Canterbury. 
17.  Thomas  Dove, .  bishop  of  Peterborough.  18.  John  Bridges, 
bishop  of  Oxford.  19.  Lancelot  Andrews,  bishop  of  Winchester. 
20.  Samuel  Harsenet,  archbishop  of  York.  21.  Theophilus  Field, 
bishop  of  St.  David's.  22.  Nicholas  Felton,  bishop  of  Ely.  23. 
Matthew  Wren,  bishop  of  Ely.  24,  25.  Roger  Dod,  Randolph 
Barlow,  bishops  in  Ireland. 

Learned  Writers. — 1.  William  Linwoode,  famous  for  his 
writing  the  Provincial  Constitutions  of  Canterbury.  2.  John 
Somerset,  Doctor  of  Physic  to  king  Henry  VI.  8.  John  Thixstill, 
whose  AvTOi  s<fr^  carried  it  in  the  Schools."!*     4,  5,  6.  John  Rogers, 

*  Charles  Booth,  bishop  of  Hereford,  ought  to  be  inserted  in  this  catalogue,  bred  in, 
Wiieiactor  to,  this  Hall.  t  ^^e  more  of  him  heFi>after,  namely,  anne  1525. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


ee  HISTORY  OF  THR  a.b.  1344. 

the  firsi-«-Nidiol88  Ridlej,  the  most  learned — John  Bradford,  the 
hardiest — ^martyr  under  queen  Mary.  7.  William  Fulke,  who  so 
learnedly  conAited  the  Rhemish  Testament :  not  to  repeat  these 
many  worthy  bishops,  besides  many  other  writers  since,  unknown 
unto  me.    8.  Edmund  Spenser,  prime  of  English,  poets. 

CoxLEGE  Livings. — Tilney  vicarage,  in  Norwich  diocess, 
valued  at  d&30.  Soham  vicarage,  in  Norwich  diocess,  valued 
^32. 168.  Overton  Waterville  rectory,  in  Lincoln  diocess,  valued 
.  Saxthorp  vicarage,  in  Norwich  diocess,  valued  £4.  ISs.  4d. 
Rawreth  rectory,  in  London  diocess,  valued  .^20. 13ff.  4rf.  Wares- 
ley  vicarage,  in  Lincoln  diocess, . 

Wherein  there  is,  at  this  present,  a  Master,  nineteen  Fellows, 
one  Tanquamy  thirty -three  Scholars  of  the  House,  beside  Officers 
and  Servants  of  the  foundation,  with  other  Students ;  the  whole 
number  being  one  hundred* 

The  aforesaid  Mary  de  Valentia  founded  also  Denney  Abbey, 
nigh  Cambridge,  richly  endowed,  and  filled  it  with  nuns,  whom  she 
removed  from  Waterbeach.  She  enjoined  also  her  Fellows  of 
Pembroke  Hall,  to  visit  those  nuns,  and  give  them  ghostly  counsel 
on  just  occasion ;  who  may  be  presumed^  (having  not  only  a  feir 
invitation,  but  full  injunction,)  that  they  were  not  wanting  both  in 
their  courteous  and  conscientious  addresses  unto  them. 

54 — 56.  Ttoo  remarkable  Pieces  of  Plate.    An  iwoidiom  Elogy 
of  this  Hall.    Robert  de  Thorp  Lord  Chancellor, 

Amongst  the  ancient  plate  of  this  Hall,  two  pieces  are  most 
remarkable :  one  silver  and  gilt,  of  the  foundresses,  (produced  on 
festivals,)  who,  being  of  French  extraction,  was  much  devoted  to 
Jbheir  tutelar  saint ;  witness  this  inscription,  as  I  remember  it : — 

'<  Saint  Dionjae  is  my  dear ; 
Wherefore  be  meny,  aad  make  good  cheer." 

The  odier,  very  like  the  former,  weighing  sixty-seven  ounces,  the 
gift  of  Thomas  Langton,  bishop  of  Winton.  with  this  inscuFp- 
tion : — Thomas  Lam^ton^  Winton.  JEpisecpus^  Avice  PembrochiafUB 
olim  SocttiA,  dedit  homo  tassiam  coopertam  eidem  AuIcb  14SI7.  Q^i 
aiienaret^  anathefna  sit. 

King  Henry  VI.  was  so  great  a  &vourer  of  this  House,  that  it 
was  termed  his  adopted  daughter,  (King^s  College  only  being 
accounted  his  natural  son,)  and  great  were  his  benefactions  bestowed 
thereon.  But,  above  all,  we  take  notice  of  that  passage*  in  his 
charter,  granting  (repeated  in  another  of  king  Edward'*s  confirm- 
ing) lands  to  this  House : — Notabile  et  insipney  et  qudm  pretiosum 
Collegium^  qtiod  inter  omnia  loca  Universitatis  (prout  certitudina- 
liter  informamv/r)  mirabiliter  splendet  et  semper  resplenduit.   Now, 


Digiti 


zedbyLiOOgle 


18  WDWAKi  III.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  07 

altboQgh  it  is  frequent  for  inferiors  to  flatter  their  superiors,  it  is 
seldom  seen  that  subjects  are  praised  by  their  sovereigns  without 
dae  cause ;  as  this  doth  appear  true  to  such  who  seriously  peruse 
our  foregoing  catalogue.  And  though  the  commendation  in  the 
king^s  charter  be  confined  to  Cambridge ;  yet  may  it  be  extended 
to  any  Collie  in  Christendom  of  the  same  proportion  for  students 
therein.  I  say,  (as  the  apostle  in  another  kind,)  that  there  may  be 
an  equality,  2  Cor.  viii.  14,  let  Pembroke  Hall  be  compared  with 
any  foundation  in  Europe  not  exceeding  it  in  bigness,  time,  and 
Dumber  of  members,  and  it  will  acquit  itself  not  conquered  in  all 
learned  and  liberal  capacities. 

Amongst  the  Masters  of  this  Hall,  Robert  de  Thorp,  the  second 
in  number,  was,  in  the  thirtieth  year  of  kbg  Edward  III.  Lord 
Chief  Justice  of  the  Common  Pleas ;  *  which  place  he  held  thirteen 
yearsy  till  1371*  when  he  was  made  Lord  Chancellor  of  England. 
His  executors,  anno  1375,  gave  forty  marks  a-piece  to  every  Col- 
lege in  Cambridge,  (then  eight  in  number,)  out  of  his  own  estate  ; 
who  in  his  life-time  began  the  public  schools,  as  we  shall  show 
hereafter. 

57>  58.  A  Greek  andgreOe/vi  Bcholar.    Benefachre  in  Imng  tieir 

Liwt* 

Amidst  the  benefactors,  Thomas  Watts»  Doctor  of  Divinity,  and 
Archdeacon  of  Middlesex,  gave  certain  farms  in  Ashwell  and  Saw- 
ston  for  the  maintenance  of  seven  scholars,  by  the  name  of  Oreek 
Sdiolars.  Lancelot  Andrews  was  one  of  his  foundation ;  who  at 
this  day  is  neither  indebted  to  this  House  in  general,  to  which  he 
gave  (besides  plate,  three  hundred  folio  books,  &c.)  one  thousand 
pounds  for  two  Fellowriiips :  nor  to  the  memory  of  Dr.  Watts  in 
partieohr,  whose  poor  kindred  he  afterwards  sought  after,  found  out, 
and  rdieved  (shall  I  say  ?)  or  rewarded* 

Nor  must  Rayneie  de  Aubeney,  and  Robert  de  Stanton,  (both 
fint  FellowB  of  this  College,)  be  fei^otten  amongst  the  bene&ctors, 
being  employed  as  procmaton  at  Rome,  to  Pope  Innoeent  VI.  to 
obtain  the  appropriatioii  of  some  rectorioa,  the  patronage  whereof 
the  foundress  had  conferred  on  the  College.  In  whidi  service  (well 
brwaided,  but  not  finished  by  them)  they  there  ended  their  lives ;  . 
sad  in  gratitude  to  their  memories,  a  statute  was  made  in  the  College, 
that  their  obsequies  should  yearly  be  kept  in  the  month  of  July* 

And  now  we  take  our  fiucwell  of  this  Hall,  when  we  have  remem* 
bered  how  queen  Elisabeth,  passing  by  the  same  in  her  progress  to 
Cambridge,  1506,  osluted  it  with  this  expression,  0  damue  aniiqua 
et  reliffiota  !     '*  O  ancient  and  religious  house  !  *^ 

*  apSLMANy  6lo*tarwm,  page  417. 

^    ^  Digitized  by  Google 


HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1344. 


SECTION  III. 

DOMINO  GtJLIELMO  PASTON,  DE  PASTON  IN  COM. 
NORF.  EQUITI  AURATO,  PATRONO  MEO  COLEN- 
DISSIMO. 

NuMERANTUR  anni  plus  minus  triginta  ex  quo  tu 
Cantabrigiae,  invidendum  decus  CoUegii  Corporis 
Christi,  Uteris  operam  navasti. 

Effluxit  jam  decennium  a  quo  Europam,  Asiam, 
Africam  peragrasti.  NuUo  pignore  cum  tuis  oculis 
meus  calamus  certabit,  ciim  tibi  perlustranti,  quam  mihi 
describenti,  plures  regiones  objectee  fuerint. 

Te  olim  Alumnum,  nunc  Judicem,  statuit  Cantabri- 
gia,  an  orbis  Christianus,  Oxonio  sorore  excepta, 
aliquid  ei  aut  eequum  aut  eemulum  exhibeat. 

Omnia  eveniant  ex  votis  tibi  sobolique  tuse,  de  qua 
hoc  addam  unicum :  Si  domus  tua  antiqua  tot  visura 
sit  dominos  cognomines,  posteros,  quot  videt  majores, 
mundus  jam  senescens  plan^  bis  puer  prors&s  deli- 
rabit. 

1.  The  two  Cwmbridge  Guilds  waited.  A.D,  1344. 
Here  at  this  time  were  two  eminent  guilds  or  fraternities  of 
town-folk  in  Cambridge,  consisting  of  brothers  and  sisters,  under  a 
chief  annually  chosen,  called  an  "  aldennan.*"  1.  The  guild  of 
Corjms  Christie  keeping  their  prayers  in  St.  Benedict  churct. 
2.  The  guild  of  the  blessed  Virgin,  observing  their  offices  in  St. 
Mary'^s  church.  Betwixt  these  there  was  a  zealous  emulation, 
which  of  them  should  amortize  and  settle  best  maintenance  for  such 
chaplains  to  pray  for  the  souls  of  those  of  their  brotherhood.  Now 
though  generally  in  those  days  the  stars  oiitshined  the  sun;  I 
mean,  more  honour  (and,  consequently,  more  wealth)  was  given  to 
Saints  than  to  Christ  himself;  yet  here  the  guild  of  Corpus  Christi 
so  outstripped  that  of  the  Virgin  Mary  in  endowments,  that  the 
latter  (leaving  off  any  farther  thoughts  of  contesting)  desired  an 
union ;  which  being  embraced,  they  both  were  incorporated  together. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


18  EDWARD  III.  UNIVERSITT  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  69 

2—4.  Corpus  Christi,  or  Bme^t  OoUege  built.  Hewry  Duke  of 
Lanocuter  the  honorary  Founder.  Stotc^s  Mistake^  mth  the 
Gfround  thereof. 

Thus  being  happily  mamed,  they  were  not  long  issueless,  but  a 
small  College  was  erected  by  their  united  interest,  which,  bearitig  the 
Dame  of  both  parents,  was  called  **  the  College  of  Corpus  Christi 
tnd  the  blessed  Mary."  However,  it  hath  another  working^day 
name,  commonly  called  (from  the  adjoined  church)  BeneH  Col- 
lege; yet  so,  that  on  festival  solemnities  (when  written  in  Latin,  in 
public  instruments)  it  is  termed  by  the  foundation-name  thereof. 

Some  years  after,  the  guild  made  their  addresses  to  Henry  duke 
of  Lancaster,  (a  kind  of  guardian  to  the  king,  in  his  minority,)  and 
politicly  chose  him  alderman  of  their  society.  They  knew,  a  friend 
in  the  court  is  as  good  as  money  in  the  purse ;  and,  because  the 
procurer  is  a  giver  at  the  second-hand,  they  conceived  his  -counte- 
nance very  advantageous  to  obtain  their  mortmain  ;  as,  indeed,  this 
lord  did  them  duke^s  service  therein,  and  the  manor  of  Barton  was 
partly  the  fruit  of  his  bounty,  encouraging  also  many  by  his  exam- 
ple to  the  same  work  :  but  chiefly,  1.  Sir  John  Cambridge,  knight, 
and  Thomas  his  son,  esquire,  who  gave  to  the  college  thirty-five  or 
thirty-six  tenements,  besides  his  capital  messuage  called  the  Stone- 
house,  and  a. hundred  acres  of  ground,  wanting  one  rood,  in  Cam- 
bridge and  Nuneham.  2.  Henry  Tangmere,  townsman  of  Cam* 
bridge,  (and  in  his  turn  alderman  of  the  guild,)  gave,  Ky  his  will, 
eighteen  or  nineteen  houses  ii^  Cambridge  and  Nuneham,  and  in 
lands  at  both  ends  of  the  town  eighty -five  acres.  3.  Thomas  de 
Eltisley,  chosen  first  Master  of  the  College,  (not  that  the  place 
might  maintain  him,  but  he  the  place,)  being  richly  beneficed,  and 
well  seen  in  secular  affairs,  gave  much  to  this  House  ;  and  intended 
more,  had  not  Robert  de  Eltisley,  clerk,  his  younger  brother, 
executor  and  feoffee  for  the  College,  defeated  the  same.  Thus  was 
the  foundation  soon  enlarged  into  a  Master  and  eight  Fellows, 
three  Bible-Clerks,  and  six  Scholars ;  their  chief  maintenance 
arising  from  candle-rents  in  Cambridge,  being  so  welUstored  with 
houses  therein,  that  every  Scholar  had  two,  every  Fellow  five,  and 
the  Master  more  than  ten,  for  his  proportion ;  though  at  this  day 
they  can  hardly  produce  half  the  number,  the  rest  being  either  sold, 
exchanged,  or  Ipst  by  continuance  of  time  and  carelessness  of  their 
officers.  . 

Be  it  here  remembered  that  John  Stow,  in  the  abridgment  of  his 
'*  Annals,^  set  out,  1566,  by  one  mistake  doth  a  double  injury  to 
this  College,  by  referring  it  to  a  fidse  founder,  and  assigning  a 
wrong  (much  later)  age  thereof,  when  affirming  that  John  of  Oaunt 
buUt  the  same  about  the  year  1357.     But  his  error  is  grounded 


70  HISTORY  OF  THB  a.i>.  lUi, 

herein, — ^becatifie  John-fr-Oaunt  mairied  Blanch,  the  danghter  and 
heir  of  the  aforesaid  duke  of  Lancaster,  and  was  an  especial 
friend  and  fayourer  to  this  foundation.  For  when  a  flaw  was  found 
in  their  mortmain,  for  want  of  some  legal  punctuality;  and  when  it 
was  ceitified  by  inquisition  into  the  Chancery,  by  John  Bepingale, 
the  king's  escheator,  that  the  luids  of  this  guild  were  forfeited  to 
the  crown ;  John  of  Gaunt  procured  their  confirmation  to  the 
College. 

5 — 7'  The  superstitious  Procession  on  Corpus-Christi  Day  endeth 
in  a  Feast  at  Bene^t  CoUege.     The  Canopy  omiwmsly  fired. 

A  grand  solemnity  was  observed  by  this  guild  every  Corpus^ 
Christi  day,  (being  always  the  Thursday  after  Trinity  Sunday,) 
according  to  this  equipage :— 1.  The  aldarman  of  the  guild  for  that 
year  (as  Master  of  the  Ceremonies)  went  first  in  procession. 
2.  Then  the  elders  thereof  (who  had  been  aldermen,  or  were  near 
the  office)  carrying  silver  shields  enamelled  in  th^  hands,*  bestowed 
on  the  brotherhood,  some  by  Henry  duke  of  Lancaster,  some  by 
Henry  Tangmere  aforementioned.  3.  There  the  Master  of  this 
College,  in  a  silk  cope  under  a  canopy,  carrying  the  Host  in  Ihe  piz, 
or  rich  box  of  silver  gilt,  having  two  for  the  purpose :  (1.)  One 
called  "  the  gripe's  eye,^  given  by  Henry  Tangmere.  X^O  Another, 
weighing  seventy-^ght  ounces,  bestowed  by  Sir  John  C^bridge.  4 
Then  the  Vice-chancellor,  with  the  Univ«»ity*men  in  their  seni- 
orities.  5.  Lastly,  the  mayor  of  the  town  and  burgesses  thereof. 
Thus  firom  Bene't  church  they  advanced  to  the  great  bridge,  through 
all  the  parts  of  the  town,  and  so  returned  with  a  good  appetite  to 
the  place  where  they  began. 

Then  in  Corpus-Christi  CoUege  was  a  dinner  provided  them, 
where,  good  stomachs  meeting  with  good  cheer  and  welcome,  no 
wmider  if  mirth  followed  of  course.  Then  out  comes  the  cup  of 
John  Goldcome,  (once  alderman  of  the  guild,)  made  of  an  horn, 
with  the  cover  and  i^purtenances  of  »lver  and  ^It,  which  he  gave 
this  Company,  and  all  must  drink  therein.  And  although  some 
years  after  happened  the  dissolution  of  this  guild,  (the  exact  date 
whereof  I  cannot  learn,)  yet  the  Master  of  Uiis  College  continued 
this  custom  of  procession  till  it  was  abolished  in  the  reign  of  king 
Henry  VIII. 

It  is  remarkable,  that,  in  the  procession,  that  canopy  under 
which  the  Host  was  carried  fell  on  fire,  leaving  men  to  guess,  as 
they  stood  affected,  whether  it  was  done  casually  by  the  carelessness 
of  the  torch-bearers,— or  maliciously,  by  some  covertly  casting  fire 
thereon  out  of  some  window,— -or  miraculously,  to  show,  that  God 

*  Soda  wrgenUa  oiria/Q  etrevmdwila. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


18  IDWAW>  III.  UNIVERSITT  OF  CAMBRIDOJft.  71 

vould  shortly  cosgane  such  saperstition.  And,  indeed,  in  the 
tventy-seventh  of  king  Henry  VIII.  when  Thomaa  Legh,  Doctor 
of  Law,  visited  the  University,  the  same  was  finally  abrogated. 
Then  those  silver  trinkets  were  sold,  and  those  shields  had  their 
property  altered,  to  fence  and  defend  the  College  from  wind  and 
▼eathei,  being  converted  into  money,  and  laid  out  in  reparations. 

8, 9.  The  Townsmen  qtiarrel/ar  their  Dinner:  are  east  by  the 
King's  OomnUssumers. 

However,  the  townsmen  still  importunately  claimed  their  dinner 
as  due  unto  them,  insomuch  that  Richard  Roulfe,*  then  mayor  of 
the  town,  required  it  of  the  College  in  a  commanding  manner. 
The  Master  and  Fellows  whereof  resolved  to  teach  the  townsmen 
a  distinction,  to  put  difference  betwixt  a  debt  and  a  courtesy,  this 
^ner  Ming  under  the  latter  notion.  They  minded  them  also  of 
the  ooazim  in  logic,  how  siMatA  oausA^  toUitur  effeotus^  '^  the  proces- 
sion (tiie  cause)  being  taken  away,  the  dinner  (as  the  ^eot)  ceajsed 
therewith."^  But,  the  belly  having  no  ears,  nothing  would  satisfy 
the  other  party,  save  a  suit,  themselves  prejudging  the  cause  on 
their  own  side.  Insomuch  that  what  they  brewed  in  Uieir  hopes, 
thejr  broached  in  their  brags,  boasting  that  as  the  houses  belonging 
to  this  College  came  originally  from  townsmen,  so  now  they  should 
letum  to  the  townsmen  again,  as  forfeited  for  deiault  of  this 
dinner.  Yea,  so  confident  they  were  of  success,  that  they,  very 
eqoally-uneqiially,  (because  invading  other  men^s  right,)  divided 
aforehand  such  houses  amongst  themselves.  But  the  worst  and 
coldest/br  f  is  what  is  to  be  made  of  a  beards  skin,  which  is  to  be 
killed. 

For  the  College  procured  that  certain  Commissioners  were  sent 
down  by  the  king,  (amongst  whom  [were],  John  Hind,  knight,  ser- 
geant-at^law,  and  John  Hutton,  esq.)  to  examine  the  matter,  and 
sununon  the  Master  and  Fellows  to  appear  before  them:  who, 
appearing  accordingly,  produced  most  authentical  evidences  and 
charters  of  mortmain,  whereby  their  lands  in  Cambridge  were  suffi- 
ciently conveyed  and'  confirmed  unto  them.  And  thus  the  towns- 
iQen,  both  hungry  and  angry  at  the  loss  both  of  their  dinner  and 
houses,  were  fain  to  desist* 

*  No  nich  appoATeth  in  (he  Cambridge  catalogue  of  maTon,  mistaken  probably  for 
Rkbaid  WooUb,  major,  anno  1629,  and  now  acdvo  In  the  abaenoe  or  gicknera  of  the 
^ror.  f  Bvidemfy  a  play  upon  its  Latin  meaning,  *'  a  robber,"  wfaUe  appa- 

^*^7  giving  its  common  fingUak  signifloatlon  of  ^  the  akiii  and  foft  hair  of  beasta  with 
«Uch  garments  are  lined  for  warmth."— Spit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


72  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1348. 

10.  Duchess  of  Norfolk  builds  their  Buttresses. 
To  return  to  the  benefactors  of  this  College :  The  buttresses 
thereof  were,  in  the  reign  of  king  Henry  VII.  made  at  the  cost  of 
Elizabeth  duchess  of  Norfolk ;  and  God  grant  (say  I)  good  but- 
tresses to  the  Colleges  in  both  Universities,  to  support  them  firmly 
against  all  opposition  !  The  said  duchess  founded  also  one  Fellow- 
ship, and  one  Bible-Clerkship. 

11.  The  Benefaction  of  Matthew  Parker. 
But  amongst  modem  benefactors,  none  to  be  mentioned  with 
Matthew   Parker,    Master  of  the   College,  if  we   consider  what 
thereunto, 

1.  ffe  saved — in  stating  their  accounts,  and  regulating  the 
method  of  ^their  rents,  carelessly  kept  (that  is,  lost  in  effect)  before 
his  time. 

2.  IFe  ffave — ^beside  many  invaluable  manuscripts,  two  Fellow- 
ships, and  five  Scholarships. 

3.  ffe  recovered — a  basin  and  ewer  of  silver  from  the  executors 
of  Laurence  Maptyde ;  a  rent-charge,  of  fifty  shillings  yearly, 
(detained  for  a  long  time,)  oiit  of  the  manor  of  Gerton.  He  dis- 
burdened the  College  of  a  pension,  for  the  impropriation  of  Grant- 
chester,  and  cast  it  (where  it  was  due)  on  the  farmer. 

Now,  I  conceive  this  is  the  best  benefaction, — ^to  recover  the 
diverted  donations  of  former  benefactors  ;  partly,  because  it  keepeth 
the  dead  from  being  wronged^  restoring  their  gifts  according  to  their 
true  intentions ;  partly,  because  it  keepeth  the  living  from  doing 
wrong^  and  continuing  their  unjust  detentions. 

12.  A  great  Favourer  of  Norfolk-men. 

I  confess  some  have  complained  of  this  Matthew  Parker,  that,  in 
favour  to  his  native  county,  he  made  all  this  College  to  Norfolkize, 
appropriating  most  Fellowships  thereunto.  But  the  worst  I  wish 
this  College  is,  that  they  may  have  the  like  Bene&ctor,  who  on  the 
same  terms  may  be  partial  to  the  same  county. 

Masters. — 1.  Thomas  Eltisley.  2.  Richard  Treaton.  3.  John 
Kynne.  4.  John  Neckton.  5.  Richard  Billingford.  6.  John 
Titshall.  7.  John  Botryght,  8.  Walter  Smith.  9.  Simon  Green. 
10.  Thomas  Cosin.  11.  John  Ediman.  12.  Peter  Nobis.  13. 
William  Sowde.  14.  Matthew  Parker.  15.  Laurence  Maptyde, 
16.  John  Porey.  17.  Thomas  Aldriche.  18.  Robert  Norgate. 
19.  John  Copcot.  20.  John  Jegon.  21.  Thomas  Jegon.  22, 
Samuel  Walsal.     23.  Henry  Butts.     24.  Richard  Love, 

Benefactors.* — 1.  Margaret  Brotherton,  duchess  of  Norfolk i 

•  Namely,  betiide  die  aforenamed.,     ^^^i^ 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


18  BDWAED  HI.  UNIVBIISITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  73 

2.  John  MeerSy  esquire-beadle.  3.  Sir  Nicholas  Bacon,  Lord 
Keeper,  bred  in  this  College.  4.  Roger  Manners,  esquire.  5. 
Roger  Manners,  earl  of  Rutland.  6.  Mr.  William  Benedict.  7« 
Mr.  Leonard  Cawson. 

Bishops. — ^1.  Matthew  Parker,  archbishop  of  Canterbury.  2. 
Richard  Fletcher,  bishop  of  London.  3.  John  Jegon,  bishop  of 
Norwich.    4.  Anthony  Watson,  Fellow,  bishop  of  Chichester.^ 

Learned  Writers. — ^Henry  Hornby. 

CoLLEGR-LiYiNGS. — ^Laudbeach  rectory,  in  Ely  diocess,  valued 
at  iflO.  1«.  Sd.  Wilbraham  Parva  rectory,  in  Ely  diocess,  valued 
at  <£19.  IQs.  8d.  St.  Bene't  Cantab,  in  Ely  diocess,  valued  at 
£4.  9i.  9d.  Grantchester  vicarage,  in  Ely  diocess,  valued  at  £7* 
IAb.  3d.    St.  Mary  Abchurch  rectory,  in  London,  £2.  28.  6d. 

So  that  lately,  tmno  1634,  there  were  maintained  in  this  College^ 
one  Master,  twelve  Fellows,  thirty-seven  Scholars  ;  beside  Officers, 
and  Setvants  of  the  foundation,  with  other  Students ;  the  whole 
number  being  one  hundred  twenty  and  six. 

13 — ^15.  Dr.  Sowde  and  Dr.  Oopcot.   The  OoUege  Arms  why  altered. 
Where  I  had  my  Instruetums  of  this  CcUege. 

Of  the  foresaid  Masters,  the  thirteenth  in  order,  namely,  William 
Sowde,  is,  with  Mr.  Fooke,  (Fellow  also  of  this  College,)  acknow- 
ledged by  Mr.  Fox  a  great  favourer  and  fittherer  of  the  truth  in  the 
dark  days  of  king  Henry  Vlll.f  Dr.  Copcot,  the  nineteenth 
Master,  (bom  at  Calais,)  was  a  great  critic  in  the  Latin  and  Greek 
tongues,  very  familiar  with  Drusius,  who  wrote  a  letter  to  him,  sub- 
scribed, Manibtu  Johannis  Copcot^  "  to  the  ghost  of  John  Copcot,*" 
— so  much  was  the  Doctor  macerated  with  his  constant  studying. 

We  must  not  forget,  how,  in  the  beginning  of  the  Reformation, 
some  took  exceptions  at  the  ancient  arms  of  this  College  as  super- 
stitious ;  and  therefore,  at  the  desire  of  Matthew  Parker,  the 
heralds  did  alter  them,  and  assigned  new  ones,  namely,  azwre^  a 
pelican,  on  her  nest,  over  her  young  ones  argent^  pecking  out  her 
own  blood,  guttee^  proper  gules^  three  lilies  argent :  %  and  thus 
a  poet  commented  on  them  :— 


twit  Ckrithim,  qui  iongmne  patcU  ahimnot. 
LUiay  vifyo  parens,  intemerata  re/ert. 

So  that  still  they  innocently  relate  to  the  ancient  guilds  of  Corpus 
Christi  and  the  virgin  Mary,  united  in  this  foundation. 

So  much  of  this  College  :  the  ancient  history,  out  of  the  archives 
whereof,  my  good  friend,   Mr.  Crofts,  (Fellow  of  the  same,  lately 

*  Godwin  in  lii«  catalogue  of  bishops  set  forth  1616.  t  "  Aoto  and  Monumeats," 

1013.  i  I  idm  more  at  plaitineM  than  tezms  of  heraldry.      ^.^^^^^  by.L^OOQ  IC 


74  BISTORT  OF  THl  A.P.  1347. 

gone  to  Ood,)  commutiicated  imto  me,  wiih  the  courteous  eon^ent 
of  Dr.  Richard  Lore,  the  worthy  Master  of  thie  CoU^.  Yea,  I 
must  thankfully  confess  myself  once  a  Member  at  large  of  this 
House,  when  they  were  pleased,  above  twenty  years  since,  freely 
(without  my  thoughts  thereof)  to  choose  me  Minister  of  St.  Bene- 
dict's churdi,  the  panah  adjoining,  and  in  their  patronage. 

16 — ^18.  A  Bcmk  and  a  L(mk  of  ChaHty.  William  Bateman 
fovmdeth  Trinity  Hall.  The  Maeter*9  Cataloyue  might  be 
amended.    A.D.  1347. 

Two  years  after  was  Trinity  Hall  b^gun.  I  confess,  building  of 
Colleges  goeth  not  by  planets,  but  by  Providence ;  yet  it  is  observ- 
able, that  now  we  bad  four  founded  within  the  compass  of  seven  years  : 
— Pembroke  Hall  and  BeneH  College,  already  past ;  Trinity  Hajl 
and  Qonville  Hall,  immediately  following.  Thus  as  tlie  zeal  of 
Achaia  provoked  many,  2  Cor.  ix.  2 ;  so  here,  when  ime  once 
brake  the  ice,  many  followed  the  same  beaten  traek  of  charity. 
Whereas,  on  the  other  side,  when  men's  hands  begin  to  be  out  of 
giving,  it  b  a  long  time  before  they  recover  the  right  stroke  again  ; 
after  this  feast  followed  a  famine ;  for  it  was  almost  a  hundred  years 
betwixt  the  founding  of  Gonville  Hall  and  the  next,  which  was 
Sang's  College;  though  charity,  in  the  interval,  may  be  presumed 
not  to  stand  still,  but  to  move,  not  in  the  generation  of  new — but 
augmentation  of  old^foundations. 

Now,  Trinity  Hall  was  built  by  William  Bateman,  bom  in  the 
city  of  Norwich,  and  became  to  be  qfnscopm  in  patrid,  afterwards 
"  bishop  in  the  place  of  his  nativity/'  He  was  one  of  a  very  stout 
spirit,  and  very  well  skilled  in  civil  and  canon  law,  (and  we  may 
presume  the  common  law,  too,  because  a  Norfolk-man,)  therefore 
employed  by  the  king  to  the  pope ;  in  which  embassy  he  died  in 
Avignon.  The  place  whereon  he  built  this  his  Hall  belonged 
formerly  to  the  monks  of  Ely ;  John  de  Crawden,  their  Prior, 
purchasing,  and  other  benefactors  enlarging  the  same  ;  so  that  it  was 
a  House  for  Students  before  bishop  Bateman  (and  by  the  exchange 
for  the  advowsons  of  certain  rectories)  procured  it  into  his  own 
possession. 

He  appointed  by  his  foundation  only  one  Master,  two  Fellows, 
and  three  Scholars, — ^all  of  them  to  be  students  of  the  canon  and  civil 
law  ;  allowing  one  divine  to  be  amongst  them :  whose  number  and 
maintenance  have  since  been  much  increased  by  other  benefactors. 

Masters.—*!.  Adam  de  Wichmere,  2.  Robert  Braunch.  3, 
Simon  Dallinge.  4.  Simon  Thornton.  5.  William  Dallinge. 
6.  Edward  Shuldham.  7-  John  Wright.  8.  Walter  Huke*  9. 
Robert  Larke.      10.   Stephen  Gardiner.      11.  William  Mouse. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


22  EOVAftO  III.  UNIVRB8ITT  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  75 

12.  Heniy  Harvey.    13.  Jokn  Preston.    14.  John  Ckiwell.     15« 
Clem^is  Corbet.     16.  Thomas  Eden.     17.  Dr.  Sonde. 

Benefactors. — ^1.  Mr.  Simon  Dallinge.  2.  Walter  Hoke. 
3.  Robert  Ooodnap.  4.  John  Maptyde.  5.  Qabriel  Don.  6. 
Ridiard  Niz,  bidiop  of  Norwidi.  ?•  Stephen  Gardiner.  8.  Mat- 
thew Parker.  9.  Dr.  Mouse.  10.  Dr.  Harvey.  11.  Mr.  Basbie. 
12.  Mr.  Hare,  esq.  13.  Dr.  Cowell.  14.  Sir  Oeoige  Newman, 
knight. 

BisHOPs.-^l.  Mannadnke  Lomley,  bishop  of  Lincoln.  2.  Ste- 
phen Gardiner,  bishop  of  Winchester.  3.  Richard  Sampson, 
bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield.  4*  William  Bariow;  bishop  of 
Lincoln. 

Learned  Writers. — 1.  Stephen  Gardiner,  Lord  Chancellor 
of  England.  2.  Walter  Haddon,  Master  of  Requests  to  queen 
Elizabeth.  3.  John  Cowell,  famous  for  his  ^<  Interpreter,^  and 
olher  learned  works. 

College  LiviNea.— Fenstanton  vicaiage  in  Lincoln  diooess, 
valued  at  <^11.  Us.  4d.  2q.  Great  Stukdey  vicanige,  in  Lmeoln 
diocess,  valued  at  £%.  14a.  2d,  Hemingford  vicarage,  in  Lincoln 
diocess,  valued  at  £9. 1&.  Vid.  Wethenfield  vicarage,  in  Lon- 
don diocess,  valued  at  ^12.  Swanington  rectory,  in  Norwidi  dio- 
cess,  valued  at  <f  6. 11&  5dL  lob.  Gaysley  [Gazeley]  vicaiage,  in 
N<»rwich  diocess,  valued  at  £7^  3«.  4d.  St.  Edward^s  Cantab,  in 
Ely  diocess.  Woodalling  vicarage,  in  Norwieh  diocess,  valued  at 
£^.  &.  &?. 

So  there  are  at  this  present,  (namely,  anno  1634,)  one  Master, 
twdve  Fellows,  fourteen  Scholais ;  besides  Officers,  and  Servants  of 
the  foundaii<M),  with  other  Students ;  the  whole  number  being  three* 
score. 

I  am  loath  to  discompose  the  catalogue  of  Masters,  wananted 
both  by  I>r«  Cains  and  Mr.  Parker ;  otherwise,  might  I  insert  my 
own  observations.  After  Robert  Braunch,  I  would  nominate  Henry 
Wells,  Master  of  Acts,  and  next  to  him  Mannaduke  Lumley.  I 
would  also,  after  St^hen  Gardiner,  place  Walter  Haddon,  fiv  one 
year  in  the  reign  of  kis^g  Edward  VL  and  after  him.  Dr.  Mouse, 
in  the  same  king^s  reign ;  then  Gacdinor  again,  in  the  first  <^ 
queen  Mary;  and  Mouse  again,  after  Gazdiner^s  death :  submitting 
idl  to  the  oensui^  of  ihose  in  that  foundation,  as  best  read  in  their 
own  records. 

19,  20.  A  pi<m8  Design.    A  bitter  Retort. 
Henry  Harvey,  the  twelfth  Master  of  this  Hall,  was  he  who,  out 
of  a  pious  intent,  (as  we  are  bound  to  believe,  because  profitable  to 
others,)  with  great  expense  did  make  a  causeway  on  the  south  and 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


76  HISTORY  OF  THB  a.d.  1347. 

other  sides  of  Cambridge,  for  the  more  convenience  of  passengers  in 
those  dirty  ways.  So  that  his  bounty  has  made  summer  unto  them 
in  the  depth  of  >vinter,  allowing  a  large  annual  revenue  for  the 
maintenance  thereof. 

Here  I  cannot  forbear  one  passage,  which  I  may  call  '^  a  serious 
jest,^  which  happened  on  this  occasion.  A  noble  person  (but  great 
anti-academic)  met  Dr.  Harvey  one  morning,  overseeing  his  work- 
men ;  and,  bitterly  reflecting  on  his  causelessly-suspected  inclina- 
tions to  popery,  **  Doctor,''  said  he,  "  you  think  that  this  causeway 
is.  the  high  way  to  heaven.''  To  whom  the  other  as  tartly  replied, 
"  Not  so,  sir ;  for  then  I  should  not  have  met  you  in  this  place.**' 

21,  22.  A  Ditpensatian  for  Increase  of  Commons,     The  exceeding 
Cheapness  of  all  Commodities. 

We  must  not  forget,  that,  when  Thomas  Arundel,  archbishop  of 
Canterbury,  made  his  metropolitical  visitation  at  Cambridge,  about 
sixty  years  after  flie  first  founding  of  the  House  ;  on  the  instance 
and  entreaty  of  the  Master  and  Fellows  thereof,  he  granted  a 
dispensation  unto  them  for  enlarging  their  commons ;  a  copy 
virhereof,  carefully  transcribed  out  of  the  original,  we  have  here 
inserted.* 

Thomas,  permissione  Divind^  S;c.  dUectis  in  Christo  Jiliis^  Cm- 
tadi  et  Sociis  CoUegii  Sanctw  Trinitatis^  Universitatis  Canta- 
brigicB^  salutem^  gratiam^  et  benedictionem, — Supplicatio  pro  parte 
vestrd  in  visitatume  nostrd  metropoliticd^  in  Eliensi  dioBcesi^  et 
CoUegio  vestro  exercita^  et  adhuc  dv/rcmte,  nobis  prcposita  contine- 
bat ;  quod  portio  singtdorum  virorum  ad  communas  vestras  in 
dicto  CoUegio  Umitata^  etsi  ad  vberiorem  providentiam  ejusdem 
CoUegii  pro  nvmero  Sociorum  suppetant  /actdtates,  in  tantvm  est 
restricta  et  diminuta,  quod  considerata  proBsentis  temporis  caridia, 
inde  non  poteritis  .  commodi  sustentari.  Nos  ^oerd,  prwmissis  inr 
,y>ectis  et  consideratis^  ut  ad  Dei  laudem  in  sttidio  eo  melius  projicere 
'calea^isy  quo  vos  aliunde  victum  quoerere  non  cportetj  ut  singulis 
s^timanis  sexdecim  denarios  de  bonis  commtmibus  Collegii  Testri 
antedicti  singtdorum  Sociorum  nomine  in  communibus  exponere 
poteritis^  consuetudinibus  in  contrarium,  seu  observantid^  etiam 
juramento,.a/ut  confirmationibus  superiorum  non  obstantibus  qui- 
tmscunque,  de  nostrd  gratid  speoiali  misericorditer  dispensamm; 
nobis  nihilominus  de  restringendo  easdem  communas^  seu  etiam  aug- 
mentandoj  pro  hcis  et  temporibus  cpporttmis,  potestatem  specialem 
reservcmtes.    Dat.S^c. 

Of  which  faculty  (to  spare  a  formal  translation  thereof)  this  the 
effect :  The  Fellows  of  the  House  were  tied  up,  by  orders  of  their 

•  iUgisi,  Cur,  Cani,  in  T^  Arundel,  transcribed  by  Mr.  Blewet. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


22  EDWARD  III.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  77 

founder,  to  so  short  a  sum,  to  proyide  commons  therewith,  that  it 
would  not  furnish  them  with  Ag^ur^s  wish,  '^  food  convenient  for 
them,^  considering  the  present  scarcity  of  commodities.  Where- 
upon the  archbishop,  by  this  instrument,  (wisely  reserving  like 
power  to  his  successors,)  dispensed  with  them  ;  that,  notwithstand- 
ing their  statutes  to  the  contrary,  they  might  expend  sixteen-pence 
a-week  in  commons,  two-pence  for  the  week-days,  a  groat  for  the 
LordVday. 

True  it  is,  that  in  the  reign  of  king  Edward  I.  all  victuals  were 
exceeding  cheap,  universally  all  over  the  land ;  when  an  Act  of 
Common  Council  was  made,  confiimed  by  the  king  and  his  nobi- 
lity, that,  in  London  itself,  (where  provisions  may  be  presumed 
dearest,)  a  fat  cock  was  to  be  sold  for  three  half-pence,  two  pullets 
at  the  same  rate,  a  fat  capon  for  two-pence  half-penny,  a  goose 
four-pence,  a  mallard  and  partridge  three  half-pence  a-piece,  two 
woodcocks  for  the  same  price,  &c.  a  &t  lamb,*  (counted  in  the 
nature  of  poultry,  second-course  meat,)  from  Christmas  to  Shrove- 
tide, six-pence,  and,  all  the  year  after,  four-pence ;  mutton,  veal, 
pork,  and  beef  being  all  cheap  proportionably. 

23,  24.  Comes  ofDeamess,    NcrfuU^  norfcutinff. 

But  since  men  multiplied,  and  more  money  daily  was  imported 
by  the  easterlings,  prices  of  all  victuals  grew  very  high ;  and  this 
very  year,  wherein  this  dispensation  was  granted,  being  1405,  the 
seventh  of  king  Henry  IV.  by  reason  of  much  waste  made  by  the 
civil  vears,  at  that  time  all  victuals  were  much  enhanced.  Where- 
fore, to  use  the  prophet's  phrase,  *'  The  ephah  being  now  made 
small  and  the  shekel  great,^  the  Scholars  in  this  Hall  had  just  cause 
to  petition  for  an  augmentation  of  money  to  buy  their  commons. 
But  since  the  finding  out  of  the  West-Indies,  in  the  reign  of  king 
Henry  VII.  and  the  daily  importing  of  silver,  prices  of  all  com- 
modities are  mounted  to  an  incredible  proportion  to  what  they  were 
anciently. 

Indeed,  (pardon  a  digression,)  this  present  year,  a.d.  1655,  is 
as  plentiful  as  any  memory  alive  can  parallel ;  so  that  we  want 
nothing  but  grateful  hearts  to  God  for  the  same.  For  it  is  strange, 
that,  when  the  valleys  laugh  and  sing  with  com,  the  owners  should 
sigh  and  cry  for  the  same.  Yea,  such  is  men's  peevishness,  as  if  it 
endeavoured  to  puzzle  Omnipotency  to  please  it,  betwixt  the  pining 
of  the  poor  in  penury,  and  the  repining  of  the  rich  in  plenty. 
And,  as  the  infidel  prince  would  not  believe  that  God  could  send 
plenty  in  Samaria,  though  he  "  should  open  the  windows  of  heaven,*" 
2  Kings  vii-  2,  19  ;  so  some  covetous  cormorant-commongers  despair 
•  John  STOw'i  *<  Hiitory,"  pag«  207. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


78  HISTORY  OF  THB  a.d.  1361. 

that  he  should  send  a  dearth  of  grain  amongst  us,  sihonld  he  stop  the 
windows  thereof,  drought  never  making  a  dearth  in  England.  Bat 
how  quickly  they  may  be  confuted,  and  our  present  plenty  justfy 
turned  into  want,  to  Ood  alone  is  known. 

25.  OowemierU  Diet  needful  for  Students. 
But,  to  return  to  the  scholars  of  Trinity-Hall.     True  it  is,  that 
a  body  surfeited  with  food  is  unfit  for  study  :  scholars,  like  hawks, 
flying  best  when  sharpy  and  not  full  gorged :  and  the  monk'^s  verse 
hath  much  truth  in  it  :-— 

DistmUus  venter  non  vult  tindere  libenfer. 

And  yet  perchance,    ' 

Laudavit  pleno  monachut  j^unia  ventre. 

^^  He  praised  &sting  when  he  was  full  himself.^^  However,  there 
may  be  a  fault  as  well  in  the  defect,  as  on  the  excess  ;  and  there  is 
a  distention  as  well  of  wind  and  emptiness,  as  of  flesh  and  fulness, 
equally  impeditive  to  a  studious  mind,  and  therefore  good  reason 
that  the  fare  of  these  scholars  should  be  enlarged. 

26—28.  GhmeiUe-HaU  founded.    Archbishop  JJffwrd  a  Commoner 
therein.     This  Hall  transplanted.    A.D.  1348. 

'  Edmund  Gonville,  (younger  brother  to  Sir  Nicholas  Gonville,  of 
Rushworth,  knight,)  parson  of  Terrington  and  Rushwprth,  in  Nor- 
folk, where  he  had  founded  a  College  of  canons,  valued  at  the  Dis- 
solution, at  — — ,  built  also  a  Hall,  dedicated  to  the  Virgin  Mary, 
on  the  place  where  now  are  the  orchard  and  tennis-court  of  Bene't 
College,  five  years  after  having  its  situation  altered. 

Whilst  this  Hall  continued  here,  one  eminent  commoner  lived 
therein,  namely,  John  Ufford,  Doctor  of  Law,  son  to  the  earl  of 
Suffolk,  and,  by  royal  appointment,  with  the  papal  consent,  made 
archbishop  of  Canterbury ;  but,  dying  before  his  consecration,  pro- 
bable (if  surviving)  to  prove  a  good  benefactor  to  this  Hall.  But 
he  departed  this  life  somewhat  before  Edmund  Gonville,  (the  Hall 
losing  so  good  father  and  so  hopeful  a  firiend,  in  a  short  space,) 
though  the  latter  left  a  large  sum  of  money  to  William  Bateman, 
bishop  of  Ely,  to  see  this  foundation  finished  according  to  his 
directions. 

Bishop  Bateman  desired  to  bring  this  new  Hall  nearer  his  own 
of  Trinity  Hall ;  partly,  because  he  might  oversee  both  his  child 
and  nurse-child  at  the  same  inspection  ;  partly,  to  invite  converse 
betwixt  these  two  countryfolk-foundations,  (both  of  Norfolk  parent- 
age,) by  their  vicinity  of  situation.  This  was  done  accordingly. 
Infants  are  easily  portable  from  place  to  place ;  and  this  Hall,  not 


Digiti 


zedbyLiOOgle 


Z7EDWAaa>  in.  UNIVSR8IT7  OF  CAHBRTOGB.  79 

yet  fully  rooted^  was  quickly  removed*  An  exdiioge  is  made  with 
Beae^t  Coll^,  for  their  mutual  conTeniencj,  and  Oonnlle  Ha]l 
transplanted  to  the  place  where  it  atandeth  at  this  day ;  and  where 
it  &reth  the  woise  for  the  town^s  over-fond  embracing  thereof,  so 
surrounding  it  on  all  sides,  that  it  wanteth  those  walks  other  Col- 
leges do  enjoy. 

29,  30.  Two  noNe  SHtdenU.    FMwiePs  Hoitdgitm  to  thu  HaU. 

This  House  was  afterwards  honoured  with  Students  of  the  highest 
extraction,  amongst  whom,  of  chiefest  remark,  Humphrey  and 
Edward,  sons  to  John  de  la  Pole,  duke  of  Suffolk ;  whose  elder 
brother  haying  undone  himself  and  his  fiunily,  these  betook  them- 
selves to  their  books,  preferring  to  claim  learning  as  their  own 
right,  rather  than  to  be  called  "lords'*  by  the  courtesy  of 
others.  However,  though  both  in  Orders,  they  attained  no  consi- 
derable church-preferment,  (Edward  only  getting  the  archdeaconry 
of  Ricbmond,)  not  for  want  of  worth,  but,  probably,  because 
overlooked  by  the  jealous  eye  of  king  Henry  VII.  So  impos- 
sible it  was  any  plant  should  grow  great  under  such  a  malignant 
influence. 

We  must  not  forget  how  William  Fishwisk,  esquire-beadle  of 
the  University,  bestowed  hb  dwelling-house  on  this  Hall,  turned 
afterwards  into  an  Hostel,  and  beautified  with  fair  buildings ;  not 
entire  in  itself^  but  retaining  to  Gonville  Hall.  This  Fishwick's 
Hostel,  though  worse  than  a  Cambridge-  was  better  than  any  Oxford- 
Hall  ;  as  partly  endowed  by  the  bounty  of  William  Revel,  rector 
of  Ticbwell  in  Norfolk,  who  in  his  own  benefice  built  several  cham- 
bers and  lodgings,  whither  the  Fishwickians  might  retire,  either  for 
pleasure  in  summer,  or  safety  in  sickness.  Above  fourscore  com- 
moners have  lived  at  once  in  this  Hostel,  repairing  for  prayers  to 
Gonville  chapel,  and,  if  dying,  interred  therein.  Since  it  is  assumed 
into  Trinity  College. 

31 33.  Papal  Indulffenoes.    Masters^  Benefactors^  S^c.  of  Gonn 

mile  Ball.     The  Earl  of  Cambridge.    A.B.  1351—1361. 

As  for  Oonville  Hall,  it  flourished  by  the  bounty  of  several 
benefiactors;  yea,  it  found  some  popes  much  befriending  it:  as 
Sixtus  IV.  who  (notwithstanding  the  decree  of  Benedict  XI. 
enjoining  all  Benedictine  monks  to  study  in  University  Hall) 
dispensed  with  those  of  Norwich  to  reside  in  Gonville  Hall.  Also 
Alexander  VI.  gave  them  leave  yearly  to  send  two  to  preach  in  any 
part  of  England  without  control. 
Mastkes. — ^John  Colton  ;  William  Rougham  ;  Richard  Pulham ; 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


80  HISTORY  OF  THE  a. d.  1373. 

William  Somersliam  ;  John  Rickingpale  ;'  Thomas  Atwood ;  Tho- 
mas Bolken  ;  Edmund  Sheriffe  ;  Henry  Costersey ;  John  Barly ; 
Edmund  Stubbs  ;  William  Buckenham ;  J  ohn  Skippe ;  John 
Sturmin  ;  Thomas  Bacon  ;  John  Caius. 

BENEFACTOES.-^Lady  Mary  Pakenham  ;  lady  Anne  Scroope ; 
lady  Elizabeth  Cleere  [Glare]  ;  Dr.  Balie  ;  Stephen  Smith ;  Rich- 
ard Wilison  ;  Thomas  Atkins ;  Peter  Hewit ;  William  Gale ; 
Thomas  Willows ;  William  Sigo ;  Dr.  Knight ;  John  Whitacre. 

BisHOPS.-»l.  John  Colton>  archbishop  of  Armagh.  2.  John 
Rickingpale,  bishop  of  Chichester.  3.  William  Linwood,  bishop 
of  St.  David'^s.  4.  Nicholas  Shazton,  bishop  of  Sarum.  5. 
William  Repps,  bishop  of  Norwich.  6.  John  Skippe,  bishop  of 
Hereford. 

Learned  Writers. — William  Linwood;  John  Caius. 

Livings  in  the  Gift  of  the  College. —  Vide  infra  in 
Caius  CoUege. 

How  this  Hall  came  afterwards  to  be  improved,  into  a  College 
shall,  Ood  willing,  in  due  time  and  place  be  related. 

Richard  de  Herling,  Chancellor,  a.d.  1351. 

William  Tynkel,  Chancellor,  1352. 

Thomas  de  Sutton,  Chancellor,  1359. 

Richard  de  Wetherset,  aiias  Cambridge,  Chancellor,  1360.  He 
was  by  way  of  eminency  called  Richard  of  Cambridge ;  and  had 
many  contests  with  the  monks.  He  was  well  skilled  in  School- 
Divinity  ;  a  racemation  of  which  studies  was  now  in  Cambridge,  but 
not  comparable  to  the  vintage  thereof  in  Oxford. 

Edmund  de  Langley,  fifth  son  to  king  Edward  III.  was  by  his 
father  created  earl  of  Cambridge.  And  now  that  title,  which 
formerly  had  travelled  beyond  the  seas,  (residing  for  a  time  with 
German  princes,)  came  home,  and  quietly  reposed  itself  in  the  Bri- 
tish blood-royal,  wherein  it  continued  until  the  death  of  the  last 
duke  of  Hamilton. 

Michael  de  Haynton,  Chancellor,  a.  d.  1361. 

34.  A  Contest  about  choosing  of  Chancellor.  A.D,  1362 — 1369. 
Michael  de  Causton,  Chancellor.  An  anti-chancellor  was  chosen 
against  him  by  an  active  faction  in  the  University ;  one  John  de 
Donewick,  wanting  nothing  for  that  place,  save  a  legal  election. 
However, ^his  party  presented  him  to  John  Bamet,  bishop  of  Elyi 
who  confirmed  him  ChanceHor.  Whereupon  Mr.  John  Ufford  and 
Mr.  William  Rawby,  in  the  name  of  the  University,  appealed  to 
the  official  of  the  court  of  Canterbury.  The  official  sent  John 
Tinmouth,  William  Teofle,  and  Thomas  Ely,  Masters  of  Arts,  to 
the  bishop  of  Ely,  inhibiting  to  intermeddle  any  more  about  Done- 


Digiti 


zedbyLiOOgle 


4B  BDWAto  III.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  81 

wick,  because  chosen  against  statute.  Thus  was  this  Donewick 
cast  out  of  the  House  for  the  present,  for  coming  in  by  the  window; 
who,  some  years  after,  entered  in  by  the  door  of  an  undoubted  elec- 
tion, and  excellently  discharged  his  office  therein. 

William  de  Gotham,  Chancellor,  a.  d.  1366. 

Thomas  de  Stukely,  Chancellor,  1369« 

35—37.  J>iseords  betwixt  DaminicaTM  and  Oarmelitea.  Tke 
Dominican  chargeth.  The  Carmelite  receiveth  the  Charge^ 
and  canqueretlL    A.B.  1369—1373. 

This  year  a  tough  controversy  happened  betwixt  the  Dominicans, 
plaintiffs,  and  the  Carm^ites,  defendants,  reducible  to  three  princi* 
pal  heads : — 

1.  Which  of  the  two  Orders  had  the  best  name  ?  The  Domi- 
nicans uigin^  it  more  honour  to  be  called  from  a  man  than  a 
mountain ;  an  holy  saint  than  a  high  heap  of  earth.  The  others 
r^oined,  that  the  mountain  of  Carmel  was  more  than  a  mountain, 
as  sanctified  by  Elijah,  (chief  of  their  Order,)  so  conversant  thereon. 

2.  Which  was  most  ancient  ?  Wherein  the  Dominicans  pleaded 
seven  years'*  seniority.  And,  though  this  may  seem  but  a  small 
matter,  yet  a  race  is  as  fidrly  won  by  a  horse'*s  head,  as  by  a  furlong 
distance  before. 

3.  Who  had  most  And  strongest  papal  privileges.?  Which, 
being  a  matter  of  fact,  depended  on  the  producing  and  proving  their 
several  instruments. 

Meantime  the  quarrels  of  Friars  bred  the  quiet  of  Students  ;  the 
gremials  in  the  University  (formerly  troubled  with  Friars  contest- 
ing with  them)  had  now  leave  and  leisure  peaceably  to  follow  their 
studies. 

Jobn  de  Donewick,  Chancellor,  a.d.  1371. 

John  Stokes,  a  Dominican,  bom  at  Sudbury,  in  Suffolk,  but 
studying  in  Cambridge,  as  champion  of  his  Order,  fell  foul  on  the 
Carmelites,  chiefly  for  calling  themselves  "  the  brothers  of  the 
blessed  Virgin,^  and  then,  by  consequence,  all  know  whose  uncles 
ihey  pretend  themselves.  He  put  them  to  prove  their  pedigree  by 
Scripture,  how  the  kindred  came  in.  In  brief.  Bale  saith,  ^^he  left 
red  notes  in  the  white  coats  of  the  Carmelites,^  he  so  belaboured 
them  with  his  lashing  language. 

Bat  John  Hombey,  a  Carmelite,  (born  at  Boston,  in  Lin- 
colnshire,) undertook  him,  called  by  Bale  ComutuSy  by  others 
"  Hornet-bee,*  so  stinging  his  style.  He  proved  the  brothership 
of  his  Order  to  the  Virgin  Mary  by  visions,  allowed  true  by  the 
infallible  popes,  so  that  no  good  Christian  durst  deny  it ;  and  pre- 
vailed with  the  Chancellor  of  Cambridge,  in  a  public  writing,  to 

^  Digitized  by  LjOOgle 


82  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.  d.  1381. 

signify  tbe  superiority  of  their  Order  in  this  doughty  diflfcrencc} 
wherein  not  a  hair  of  any  important  truth  "was  concerned. 
Adam  Lakingheth,  Chancellor,  a.d.  1373. 

38,  Chaucer  a  Cambridge  Student. 

About  this  time  GeoflBrey  Chaucer  studied  in  Cambridge,  as  the 
writer  of  his  Life  (prefixed  to  the  last  and  best  edition  of  his 
Worts)  hath  wfeU  observed.  For,  being  commanded  to  give  an 
account  of  himself, — * 

<<  What  is  yenr  name  f     Rehearse  it  here  I  pray ; 
Of  whens  and  v^here,  of  what  condition 
That  ye  been  of ;  let  see,  come  off  and  say, 
Faine  would  I  know  yonr  dispo8ici(»i ;" 

he  returned,  under  the  assumed  name  of  PhUogenet^  "  Of  Cam- 
bridge clerk.''  Here  "  clerk  "  is  not  taken  in  the  restrictive  sense, 
for  one  in  Orders,  (Chaucer  being  a  military  man,)  but  for  a 
Scholar,  skilled  in  learning;  in  which  contra-distinction  all  men 
were  divided,  (as  time  into  day  and  night,)  into  clerks  and  no- 
clerh.  I  confess,  this  Chaucer,  living  at  New-Elm  in  Oxfordshire, 
"compowned  his  Astrolabye  for  the  orizont  of  Oxenford,'' f  and 
probably  studied  also  in  that  University ;  being  one  of  that  merit, 
who  may  with  honour  be  acknowledged  a  member  of  both  Unive^ 
sities. 

John  de  Donewick,  Chancellor,  a.d.  1374. 

William  de  Gotham,  Chancellor,  1376. 

Richard  le  Scroope,  Chancellor,  1378. 

Guido  de  Zouch,  Chancellor,  1379. 

John  de  Cavendish,  Chancellor,  1380. 

39 — 41.  A  rebellious  Biot  of  the  Townsmen  of  Cambridge,     Uni" 
xersity  Monuments  martyred.     -4.2>.  1381.     5  Richard  II.       i 
Edmund  Lister,  mayor  of  Cambridge,  with  the  bailiffs  and  bur- 
gesses thereof,  met  in  the  town-house.     Here  they  chose  James 
Granchester  and  Thomas  his  brother  into  their  corporation,  which  | 
formerly  were  foreigners,  and  not  free  of  the  town.     This  done, 
they  elected  the  foresaid  James  to  be  their  ringleader ;  yet  so  that ' 
they  bound  him  with  an  oath  to  do  whatsoever  they  should  com- 1 
mand  him.     Now,  because  it  is  as  necessary,  and  almost  as  accept- 
able a  work,  to.  transmit  the  memory  of  itf a/^ctors  to  the  detesta- 1 
tion— as  of  jB^^ctors  to  the  praise — of  posterity,  take  a  list  of 
the  most  active  townsmen  in  this  wicked  design.     1.  John  Blanck-' 
pain;    2.  John  Gotten ;  3.  John  Marshall;    4.  John  Brigham;j 
5.  John  Tripplow ;    6.  Thomas  Tryvet ;    7.  Peter  Lolworth  ;  8. 

•  In  his  "  Cotirt  of  Love,"  fol.  362.  t  In  bis  "  Astrolaby,"  fol.  261.        ' 


Digiti 


zedbyLiOOgle 


oRicnASLD  u.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGB.  83 

John  Cardmaker;  9.  Robert  Bcilham ;  10.  John  Barley;  11. 
Adam  Serjant ;  12.  Henry  Rand  ;  13.  John  Herre  ;  14.  Alexan- 
der Tavemer ;  15.  Britelin  of  Cambridge.*  Fifteen  men,  all  disho- 
nest and  false,  whom  I  may  call  **  the  field  officers,^  under  their 
General  Oranchester,  if  the  honourable  terms  of  ^  an  army  ^  may 
be  applied  to  so  base  a  company. 

Then  this  rabble-rout  rolled  to  Bene'*t  College,  against  which 
foundation  they  had  a  particular  quarrel,  because  endowed  with 
many  candle-rents  in  Cambridge,  so  that  a  sixth  part  of  the  town  is 
said  at  that  time  to  belong  thereunto.  Here  they  brake  open  the 
College-gates  on  the  Saturday  night,  (a  good  preparation  for  the 
Lord'^s-day  following,)  and,  as  if  the  readiest  way  to  pay  their  rent 
were  to  destroy  their  landlords,  they  violently  fell  on  the  Master 
and  Fellows  therein.  From  them  they  took  all  their  charters,  evi- 
dences, privil^es,  and  plate  to  the  value  of  fourscore  pounds. 
Hence  tiiey  advanced  to  the  house  of  the  Chancellor,  threatening 
him  and  the  University  with  ^  and  sword,  (as  indeed  they  did 
bum  the  house  of  William  Wigmore,  Esquire-Beadle,  proclaiming 
that  whosoever  could  catch  should  kill  him,}  except  they  would 
instantly  renounce  all  their  privileges,  and  bind  themselves  in  a 
bond  of  three  thousand  pounds  to  subject  themselves  hereafter  to 
the  power  of  the  townsmen,  and  &ee  the  townsmen  from  any 
actions,  real  or  personal,  which  might  oxkfi  from  this  occasion. 
This  done,  they  went  into  the  market-place,  where  with  clubs  they 
brake  the  seals  of  the  University-Charters,  and  then  burnt  them  in 
the  place.  One  Margaret  Sterr,  a  mad  old  woman,  threw  the 
ashes  into  the  air,  with  these  words :  ^^  Thus,  thus  let  the  learning 
of  all  scholars  be  confounded  !  ^  •{• 

Now,  if  any  ask  us  what  is  become  of  the  originals  of  the  Bulls 
of  Honorius,  Sergius,  Eugenius,  &c.  of  the  ancient  charters  of 
Arthur,  and  other  Briton  and  Saxon  kings ;  we  have  but  one  sad 
and  true  answer  to  return  to  all  their  questions :  "  They  are 
burnt  ;^  and  that  in  the  worst  of  fires,  not  caused  by  casualty,  but 
by  malicious  design.  From  Cambridge  they  went  to  Barnwell, 
doing  many  sacrilegious  outrages  to  the.  priory  therein.  Nor  did 
their  fury  fall  on  men  alone,  even  trees  were  made  to  taste  of  their 
cruelty.  In  their  returil  they  cut  down  a  curious  grove  called 
Green V  Croft,  by  the  river'^s  side,  (the  ground  now  belonging  to 
Jesus  College,)  as  if  they  bare  such  a  hatred  to  all  wood,  they 
would  not  leave  any  to  make  gallows  thereof  for  thieves  and  mur- 
derers. All  these  insolences  were  acted  just  at  that  juncture  of 
time  when  Jack  Straw  and  Wat  Tyler  played  reof  in  and  about  Lon- 
don.    More  mischief  had  they  done  to  the  Scholars,  had  not  Hemy 

*  Caiub,  HUt,  Cant,  Acod,  lib.  i.  page  97.    ,  t  CArciSy  utpriut,  page  99. 

G    2 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ IC 


84  History  OF  THE  a.d.  i384. 

Spencer,  the  warlike  bishop  of  Norwich,  casually  come  to  Cambridge 
with  some  forces,  and  seasonably  suppressed  their  madness. 
Guido  de  Zouch,  Chancellor,  a.d.  1382. 

42,  43.  The  Tovmsmm  called  to  a  legal  Account.    Their  pitifd 

Plea.     . 

The  time  was  now  come  that  the  townsmen  might  calmly  be 
counted  with,  to  answer  that  in  cold  which  they  had  done  in  hot, 
yea,  scalding,  blood.  Two  writs  are  sent  down  from  London  ;  the 
one  to  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Cambridge  then  being,  the  other  to 
them  who  were  mayor  and  bailiffs  the  year  before,  when  the  riot 
was  committed.  The  first  appeared  personally,  and  pleaded  them- 
selves not  guilty^  not  knowing-  of  any  such  outrages.  Edmund  Lister 
pleaded  also  not  guilty^  and  that  he  was  enforced  to  do  all  that  was 
done ;  which  the  king'*s  counsel  quickly  confuted,  by  producing  the 
two  bonds  which  they  forced  the  Chancellor  to  subscribe. 

Three  things  the  townsmen  desired :  First.  A  copy  of  the  bill. 
Secondly.  Counsel.  Thirdly.  Respite  to  answer.  To  the  copy  of 
the  bill  it  was  answered,  that  since  they  had  heard  the  same,  it 
should  suffice;  for  by  law  they  ought  to  have  no  copy.*  To 
Counsel  it  was  answered,  they  shoidd  have  it  wherein  it  was  to  be 
had  ;  but  this  was  mere  matter  of  fiict.  As  for  respite,  after  many 
subterfuges  and  dilatory  pleas,  at  last  they  submitted  themselves  to 
the  king'*s  mercy,  who  seized  the  privileges  of  the  town,  as  forfeited 
into  his  own  hands,  and  conferred  them  on  the  University. 

44,  45.  Privileges  conferred  on  the  University.     Focalia  prized  b 
the  Chancellor. 

First.  That  hereafter  the  oversight  of  all  victuals  should  belong 
to  the  Chancellor ;  so  that  no  townsman  ever  since  putteth  a  crumb 
of  bread  or  drop  of  beer  into  his  mouth,  but  what  first  is  weighed 
and  measured  by  an  officer  of  the  University,  Secondly.  That  the 
Chancellor  and  the  University  should  have  power  to  set  prices  on 
candles,  (very  necessary,  I  assure  you,  to  hard  students,)  and  to 
license  all  victualling-houses,  and  oversee  all  wares  and  weights  at 
Sturbridge  fair.  Thirdly.  That  no  action  be  brought  by  any 
townsman  against  Scholar  or  Scholar^s  servant,  save  only  in  the 
Court  of  the  Chancellor.  Fourthly.  That  the  University  have 
power  to  punish  and  amerce  all  forestallers,  regraters,  &c.  paying  a 
rent  of  ten  pounds  a-ye^  for  that  privilege  into  the  Exchequer ; 
this  their  power  extending  to  the  town  and  suburbs  thereof:  from 
which  clause  of  "  suburbs  "  the  Lord  Coke  collects  and  concludes 
Cambridge  then  to  be  a  city  in  reputatipn.-|- 

•  LoED  COKB  in  the  fourth  part  of  his  *<  Institutes/'  c.  44.  t  ^<^^  *^i  supra. 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


8  itfCHARD  II.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  85 

:  We  tnnsi  not  forget  that  at  the  same  time  focaUa^  that  is,  all 
kind  of  fuel,  wood,  coals,  turf,  &c.  was  then  subjected  to  the 
Chancellor,  as  to  set  the  price  thereof.  Seeing  the  toinismen  had 
so  little  wit  and  honesty  as  to  make  fuel  of  king^s  charters,  here« 
after  thej  should  meddle  no  more  with  materials  for  fire.  Thus  ill 
manners  occasion  good  laws,  as  the  handsome  children  of  ugly 
parents. 
John  Nekton^  Chancellor,  a.d.  1384^ 

46 — 50.  An  Order  thai  no  Scholar  is  to  he  admitted  under  eighteen^ 
Yea/r9  of  Age.  The  Franciseam  oppose  this  Order.  The 
Issue  un<!ertain.  [Beneficed  Men  licensed  by  the  Pope  €u  Non* 
residents.^ 

The  University  now  began  to  grow  sensible  of  a  great  grievance, 
caused  by  the  Minors  or  Franciscan  Friars.  For  they  surprised 
many,  when  children,  into  their  Order,  before  they  could  well  dis- 
tinguish betwixt  a  cap  and  a  cowl,  whose  time  in  the  University 
ran  on  from  their  admission  therein,  and  so  they  became  Masters  of 
Arts  before  they  were  masters  of  themselves.  These  University- 
boys,  (for  men  they  were  not,)  wanting  wit  to  manage  their  degrees^ 
insolently  domineered  over  such  who  were  their  juniors,  yet  their 
elders.  To  prevent  future  inconveniences  in  this  kind,  the  Chan^ 
cellor  and  University  made  an  order,  that  hereafter  none  should 
be  admitted,  gremials  under  eighteen  years  of  age.. 

The  Minors  or  Franciscans  were  much  nettled  hereat^  wha 
traded  much  in  such  tender  youth ;  (Minors  and  children  agree 
well  together ;)  and  William  Folvil,  a  Franciscan,  wrote  an  invec- 
tive against  the  Act  of  the  University,  as  injurious  to  the  privileges 
of  this  Order ;  it  being  against  monastical  liberty  to  be  stinted  ta 
any  age  for  the  entrance  therein,* 

I  find  not  nvhat  was  the  issue  of  this  contest,  but  believe  that  the 
University  never  retracted  their  order ;  though  it  stands  not  in^ 
force  this  day,  wherein  many  of  younger  age  are  daily  admitted. 
And  seeing  man's  life  is  now -shortened,  it  is  but  reason,  that  what 
we  want  of  our  ancestors  in  long  running,  we  should  supply  in  soon 
starting.  Let  the  watermen  of  London  (whose  violent  work 
requires  robustious  bodies)  make  an  order  in  their  Hall,  that  none 
under  the  age  of  eighteen  should  be  bound  apprentice  in  their 
Company :  ability  is  more  to  be  respected  than  age  in  the  sons  of 
the  Muses,  in  whom  often  ervditio  supplet  cetatem.  Nor  is  there 
to  my  knowledge  any  prohibition  in  this  kind  observed,  save  that 
they  fright  scholars  of  a  low  stature  with  a  joculary  tradition,  that 

•  PiTZjEUS,  Script,  Ana.  in  anno  1384.  #     ^^^i^ 

'  "^  ^  ^  Digitized  by  VjOOQLC^ 


1^  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.  d.  1389. 

"  none  are  to  commence  nirho  are  not  tigher  than  the  beadle's 
staff." 

A  great  schism  happened  this  year  in  the  regent-house,  about  the 
choice  of  a  new  Chancellor.  I  find  not  who  carried  the  place,  and 
therefore  probably  the  oH  one  still  continued. 

Thomas  de  Hetherset,  Chancellor ;  Richard  Maycent,  Proctor, 
A.  D.  1386. 

Pope  Urban  VI.  gave  licence  to  beneficed  men  to  be  non- 
residents for  fire  years,  and  follow  their  studies  in  the  University, 
if  allowed  by  the  Qiancellor  for  the  same. 

William  Colville,  Chanceflor ;  Joha  Wace  and  Richard  Baston, 
Proctors,  a.  d.  1388. 

51.  A  Parliament  kept  at  Gamhridcfe. 
A  parliament  was  called  at  Cambridge  ;  a  place  at  this  time  very 
convenient  for  that  purpose.  For  he  that  will  hinder  the  hide  from 
rising  up  on  either  side  must  fix  his  foot  on  the  middle  thereof. 
Cambridge  was  well  nigh  the  centre  of  those  eastern  counties^ 
lately  mutinous  with  popular  commotions.  The  king  for  his  pri- 
vacy was  pleased  to  prefer  Barnwell  Priory  for  the  place  of  his 
repose,  though  otherwise  King's  Hall,  founded  by  his  grandfather, 
vras  prepared  for  his  entertainment ;  where  all  things  were  so  con- 
veniently contrived,  that  the  courtiers  had  all  lodgings  and  offices 
by  themselves,  without  meeting  with  the  Scholars,  save  only  in  the 
passage  towards  the  kitchen.  William  Courteney  archbishop  of  Can- 
terbury, and  Edmund  Langley  earl  of  Cambridge,  lodged  in  the  con- 
vents of  the  Carmelites,  being  of  the  largest  receipt  of  any  Religions 
House  in  Cambridge.  A  sad  accident  happened  as  the  king  rode 
in  state  to  the  house  :  one  Sir  Thomas  Trivet  attended  his  majesty; 
which  knighty  being  mounted  on  an  unruly  horse,  was  cast  offy 
brake  his  entrails,  and  died  the  next  day. 

52 — 54.  Canterhwry  misprinted  for  Oa/mhridge  in  tie  SteBttste-booh 
The  excellent    Statutes  of    Cambridge   Parliament  against 
wandering  Scholars^ 
By  the  way,  methinks  Cambridge  might  bring  mi  action  of  tres- 
pass against  all  our  printed  statute-books,  for  depriving  her  of  the 
honour  of  this  parliament,  and   rendering  the  place  Canterbury 
instead  of  Cambridge,  in  the  preface  to  the  Acts  thereof.     This 
inconvenience  cometh  from  contracting  long  words  in  writing,  when 
there  be  two  names  whose  faces,  (as  I  may  say,)  I  mean,  their 
beginnings,  are  the  same;  and  whose  lower  parts,   though  much 
differing, — being  cut  off  with  a  dash, — causeth  a  confusion  betwixt 
them.     And  althpugh,   by  the  Tower  Rolls  ^n^^pjt^^jc,  excellent 


.^^&§f& 


13  BiCQAftD  II.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  87 

authors,*  this  parliament  appeareth  kept  at  Cambridge,  not  Canter* 
bury ;  jet  (as  if  prescription  turned  usurpation  into  lawful  posses* 
sion)  the  lawyers  will  not  amend  this  mistake.  The  best  is,  it 
matters  not  where  good  statutes  be  made,  so  they  be  made ;  the 
place  being  not  essential  unto  them. 

Many  and  good  were  the  laws  enacted  in  this  parliament,  besides 
the  confirmation  of  those  made  in  the  reign  of  king  Edward  III. 
namely,  that  the  manly  and  martial  exercise  of  archery  should  be 
generally  used.  Secondly.  A  statute  was  made  against  the  multi- 
tude of  servants ;  great  lords  keeping  then  little  armies  in  their  fami- 
lies, which  soon  after  occasioned  the  wars  betwixt  the  Houses  of 
York  and  Lancaster.  And  whereas  it  was  the  general  complaint, 
that  men  were  grown  so  vain  and  expensive  in  their  clothes,  that 
servants  were  not  to  be  known  from  their  masters,  the  clergy  from 
the  laity,  something  was  ordered  for  the  regulating  of  apparel,  the 
wages  of  labourers,  and  removing  the  staple. 

We  must  not  forget,  that  in  this  parliament  a  statute  was  made 
»Iso  against  wanderers ;  and  particularly  against  Scholars  of  both 
the  Universities,  that  they  should  not  go  about  without  licence  from 
the  Chancellor.  Indeed,  I  have  ever  beheld  begging  Scholars  as 
the  most  improper  objects  of  charity ;  who  must  be  vicious,  or  else 
eannot  be  necessitous  to  a  mendicant  condition.  But,  since,  I  have 
revoked  my  opinion  ;  the  calamities  of  this  age  felling  so  heavily  on 
Scholars,  that  I  am  converted  into  a  charitable  conceit  of  such  who- 
beg  the  charity  of  others. 

Richard  de  Deerham,  Chancellor,  a.d.  1389. 

55 — 58.  A  strange  Miracle.  Not  like  those  in  the  Scripture.  A 
strange  Plague  in  Cambridge.  The  like  after  was  at  Oxford. 
A  strange  miracle  is  reported  here  to  have  happened :  Whilst 
the  Augustine  Friars  in  a  solemn  procession  were  carrying  the  Host 
about  the  town,  on  a  sudden  it  grew  so  heavy^  that  it  made  two  of 
the  strongest  Friars  puff,  and  sweat,  and  blow  to  support  the  same.-}' 
It  added  to  the  wonder,  that,  let  any  layman  put  his  hands  under 
it,  and  they  felt  no  weight  at  all.  Thus  this  was  a  Roman — ^but 
no  Catholic — ^miracle,  as  but  partial,  and  confined  only  to  the 
cognizance  of  the  clergy  ;  enough  almost  to  make  it  suspected,  that 
they  first  feigned  it  who  only  felt  it. 

Surely,  it  is  not  like  unto  Scripture-miracles,  which  had  all  per- 
sons present  witnesses  to  the  truth  thereof.  Say  not,  "  Paul  only 
heard  the  voice. speaking  to  him  from  heaven,  which  the  rest  of  hia 
fellow-travellers  did  not  hear  ;"  because  that  express  was  made  par- 

•  Thomas  Walsingham  and  Henry  Knighton,  in  their  Lives  of  Bichard  II. 
t  Thomas  Walsingham  in  hoc  anno,  ^^^^i^ 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


89  HISTORY  OP  THE  a.d.  1396, 

ticularlj  for  his  personal  coDversion*  Otherwise,  it  will  be  hard  to 
instance  in  Scripture  wherein  a  miracle  was  not  evident  to  all  who 
were  present  thereat.. 

This  reported  ntiracle  was  followed  with  a  sad  mortality  in  the 
town  and  University,  proceeding  from  the  infection  of  the  air,  and 
that  caused  from  the  unclean  keeping  of  the  streets.  Indeed,  I 
read  how  tbe  Master  of  Michael  Hostel  was  convented  before  the 
Chancellor,  and  commanded  either  quickly  to  cleanse  their  chai^ 
nels,  or  quite  to  stop  them  up,  as  being  in  the  public  passage  of  the 
Students  to  the  Schools  and  St.  Mary^s,  which  sent  forth  such  an 
ofieusive  isavour,  (the  purest  brains  are  soonest  sulgeci  to  infection,) 
that  many  fell  sick  with  the  noisono^ness  thereof.  And»  indeed, 
the  shame  and  guilt  is  great,  when,  for  the  want  of  sweeping  the 
streets,  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  swept  away  with  infections. 
Now,  such  the  malignity  of  this  disease,,  that  presently  it  infected 
the  brain,  so  that  instantly  nven  ran  raving  mad,  and,  which  was 
strange,  starved  themselves  to  death,,  refusing  to  eat  or  drink,  save 
what  was  forced  down  their  threats  with  violence.  What  number 
of  Scholars  and  townsmen  died  hereof,  is  uncertaia ;  but,  sure,  they 
were  not  a  few,  the  distemper  continuing  for  many  weeks  together. 

I  doubt  not  but  Oxford  did  greatly  condole  with  Cambridge 
herein,  the  rather,  because,  surely,  Cambridge  did  sadly  sympathize 
with  her  sister  Oxford,  when,  in  the  reign  of  king  Henry  VII.  she 
was  made  desert  and  desolate  by  an  epidemical  infection.  This 
arose,  saith  their  antiquary,  ex  stagnis  et  aquarum  obicibusy  from  the 
stopping  of  water-courses,,  (and  Oxford,  I  assure  you,  is  well  stored 
with  them  on  her  east  and  south  side,)  so  that  the  town  was  wholly 
forsaken,  till,  by  the  care  of  Richard  Fox  their  Chancellor,  it  slowly 
recovered  the  inhabitants.* 

59 — 61.  John  Bromiard^  a  fierce  Anti-Wtcklimst.     Both  bed  bif 
Turns,    Statute  against  fugitive  Friars.    A,D.  1390 — 1396. 

Now,  or  about  this  time,  John  Bromiard,  a  Dominicanjf  first 
bred  in  Oxford,  came  to  Cambridge ;  and  there  became  Professor 
of  Divinity :  sent  thither  (perchance)  on  design  to  ferret  out  the 
Wicklivists,  to  whom  he  was  a  professed  enemy ;  though  Ralph 
Spalding,  a  Carmelite,  was  the  sole  eminent  Cantabrigian  at  this 
time  suspected  to  fevour  their  opinions.! 

Note  by  the  way,  that  Oxford  was  most  fruitful  of  defenders  and 
sufferers  for  the  truth,  from  the  coming  of  Wickliff  till  the  rising  of 
Luther ;  during  which  time  Cambridge  was  but  barren  of  famous 
confessors.     But  Cambridge,  in  the  reign  of  king  Henry  VIII. 

•  Brian  Twtne,  page  324.  t  Pitzjbus,  JDe  Script,  Anglie.  page  561. 

X  Idem,  page  650. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


I 

so  stCBASD  II.  UNIVERSITY  OP  CAMBRIDGE.  80 

afforded  more  martyrs  and  witneflses  of  the  troth,  whilst  Oxford 
wss  more  generally  guOty  of  superstition.*  Thus  he  who  hath  two 
fair  orchards  seldom  wanteth  fruit ;  the  one  hitting  whilst  the  other 
&ileth.  And  thus  the  God  of  truth  was  alternately  furnished  with 
champions,  first  of  the  one  then  the  other  University ;  till  both  at 
last  (after  the  perfect  Reformation)  became  the  fruitful  nurseries  of 
Protestant  worthies,  to  the  envy  and  admiration  of  all  Christendom. 

William  CohiUe,  Chancellor ;  Thomas  Hadley  and  Peter  SkeU 
ton,  Proctors,  a.d.  1391. 

It  was  usual  for  apostate  Preaching  or  Dominican  Friars,  being 
fugitives  from  foreign  parts,  here  surreptitiously  to  steal  their 
degrees:  in  future  prevention  whereof,  the  king  ordered,  they 
should  not  commence  in  either  University.  He  by  his  writ  also 
enjoined  the  sheriff  of  Cambridgeshire,  in  default  of  the  bailiffs  and 
townsmen,  to  assist  the  Chancellor  in  repressing  malefactors.-f- 

Jobn  Nekton,  Chancellor,  a.d.  1S92, 

William  Colville,  Chancellor;  Thomas  Hougham,  Proctor^ 
1394. 

Eudo  or  Guide  de  Zouch,  Chancellor ;  William  Wimble,  Proc- 
tor, 1396. 

62,  63.   The  first  Person  of  Hon(mr  Chancellor  of  Cambridge. 
Cambridge's  Chancellor  no  longer  confirmed  by  Ely's  Bishop. 

John  Fordham,  bishop  of  Ely,  well  considering  the  state,  degree, 
and  noble  birth  of  Eudo  de  Zouch,  (being,  as  I  collect  it, 
younger  son  to  the  first  lord  Zouch  of  Harringworth  in  Northamp- 
tonshire, a  younger  branch  of  most  ancient  barons  dt  Ashby-de-la- 
Zouch  in  Leicestershire,)  would  not  exact  obedience  of  him,  as  of 
the  former  Chancellors.  Indeed,  Fordham  was  herein  more  court- 
like and  civil  to  this  Eudo  than  Thomas  Arundel,  his  precessor 
bishop  of  Ely,  who  (being  nobly  bom  himself,  might  be  pre- 
sumed more  courteous  to  one  of  the  like  extraction,  yet)  seventeen 
years  since,  namely,  a.d.  1379,  took  obedience  of  this  Eudo,  then 
Chancellor,  in  all  formality.  But  some  will  say,  "  Eudo  had  since 
acquired  (though  not  better  blood)  more  gravity  and  degrees,  and 
therefore  more  respect  was  due  unto  him.'' 

But  what  now  was  indulged  to  Chancellor  Zouch  as  a  personal 
favour  was,  six  years  after,  a.d.  1402,  granted  generally  to  all  his 
successors,  by  the  bounty  of  pope  Boniface  IX,  who,  by  his  Bull, 
ordered  it,  that  the  Chancellor  of  Cambridge  needed  not  any  further 
confirmation  from  the  bishop  of  Ely,  but  that  his  election  by  the 
University  put  him  into  power  to  perform  his  oiBce. 

*  Which  clearly  appears  by  coxumlt'ng  and  comparing  Fc^'S  ''Acts  and  Monumenta." 
t  Robert  Hark,  m -^rcAiwV,  .    r\r\n\o 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


90  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1400. 


SECTION  IV, 

ROULANDO  LITTON  IN   PAGO  HARTFORDENSI 
ARMIGERO. 

Pbimam  mundi  a&tatem,  Poetae  dixerunt  cmream  ;  non 
ob  auri  abundantiam,  cujus  ne  mica  tunc  in  usu,  (cum 
**  opes,  maloram  irritamenta,"  nondum  effoderentur,)  sed 
ob  summam  illius  saeculi  simplicitatem. 

Quo  quidem  sensu,  vita  academica  mihi  verfe  aurea  est 
censenda :  cujus  me  meminisse  juvat,  cum  nos  olim,  in 
CoUegio  Sydneyano,  (ego  sub  auspiciis  Doctoris  Wardi, 
tu  sub  tuteld  Magistri  Dugardi,  rm  f^xHaptroov,)  Uteris 
vacavimus. 

At  prseter  banc  communem  cum  aliis  felicitatem,  mihi 
peculiaris  honor  obtigit,  quern  idem  cubiculum  tibi  soci- 
avit,  notissimum  enim  illud,  "  Noscitur  e  socio  :  "  unde^ 
spero  fiituruiti,  ut  obscuritas  mea  inter  coUegas,  beneficia 
contubemii  tui,  (tanquam  notabili  indice,)  apud  posteros^ 
illustrabitur. 

1, 2.  The  large  Privilege  of  Cambridge  for  printing^  much  improv^^ 
2  Henry  IV.  A.D.  1400. 


Richard  Billingfield,  Chancellor. 

Over  into  England  about  this  time  first  came  the  mystery  of 
printing ;  but  when  first  brought  to  Cambridge,  it  is  uncertain.  Only 
I  hope  I  may  without  offence  report  what  I  have  read  in  the  oracle 
of  our  English  law :  *  "  This  University  of  Cambridge  hath  power 
to  print  within  the  same  om/nes  eft  omnimodos  libros ;  which  the 
University  of  Oxford  hath  not.'' 

True  it  is,  it  was  a  great  while  before  Cambridge  could  find  out 
the  right  knack  of  printing,  and  therefore  they  preferred  to  employ 
Londoners  therein.  Thus  I  find  a  book  of  Robert  Alyntons, 
called  Sophistica  Principia^  printed  at  London  by  Wynand  de 
Word,  ad  umm  Cantabrigiemem^  anno  1510.  But  sonae  seven 
years  after,  one  Sibert,  University-printer,  improved  that  mystery 
to  good  perfection,  fairly  setting  forth  the  book  of  Erasmus,  De 

•  Sir  Edward  Coke,  part  i?,  of  his  "  InetituteB  of  (he  Jurisdictton  of  Courts," 
page  228. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


3  HE!f Rf  iV.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  91 

consoribendia  Epistolia^*  the  aQthoT  then  living  in  Cambridge,  who 
may  be  presumed  curious  in  the  impression  of  his  works.  In  the 
next  age  Thomas  Thomasius,  Fellow  of  King^s,  and  Cambridge- 
priDter,  (known  bj  the  Dictionary  of  his  name,)  heightened  printing 
to  higher  degree  ;  since,  exactly  completed  by  his  successors  in  that 
office ;  witness  the  Cambridge  Bible,  of  which  none  exacter  or  truer 
edition  in  England. 

3—5.  The  Vhwersity  visited  by  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury. 
The  Archbishop'e  Mandate  to  the  ChanoMor,  Another  to 
etery  CoUege.    A  Mistake  in  the  printed  Bate.    A.D.  1401. 

This  year  the  University  was  visited  by  Thomas  Arundel,  arch- 
bishop of  Canterbury,  the  first  and  last  of  his  place  personally 
appearing  in  that  employment.  We  are  therefore  concerned  to  be 
t]ie  more  punctual  in  relating  all  passages ;  and  begin  with  his 
letter  of  citation,  sent  to  the  Chancellor,  being  Richard  de  Billing- 
ford,  Master  of  Corpus  Christi  College,  though  none  particularly 
named. 

Thomas  permissione,  <$•(?.  dilecto  filio  caneellario  JJniversitatis 
Cantabriffice,  JEliensis  diosceseos^  nostrceque  provinciw  Cantiiarien-' 
m,  sahtem,  Scc-^Quia  nos  in  progressu  eisitationis  nostrce  metro- 
politiccB  in  dicta  dioecesi  exercendce^  vos  et  dictam  Universitatemy 
annuente  Domino,  proponimns  visitare ;  vos  tenore  prcesentium 
peremptorii  citamus,  et  per  vos  omnes  et  singulos  Doetores,  et  Ma- 
gigtros  Megentes^  et  alias  personas  quascunque  prcedictw  Unitersi^ 
tatisy  qui  nostroe  Tisitationi  hujusmodi  interesse  tenentur  de  constte^ 
tudine  tel  dejwrey  dtari  zolumus ;  et  mandamus,  quod  comparecUis, 
td  compareant  coram  nobis  in  domo  congregationis  Universitatis 
prcedictcPy  decimo  septimo  die  mensis  Septembris  proximi  futuri^ 
cum  continuatione  et  prorogatione  dierum  tunc  sequentium,  visita- 
tionem  noetram  hujusmodi  juwta  juris  exigentiam  subituri,  facturi^ 
que  uUeriiis  et  reeepttiri  quod  canonicis  convenit  institutis.  Et 
quid  feceritis  in  prcemissis,  nos  dictis  die  et  loco  debite  certificetis 
per  literas  veetras  patentes,  hunc  tenorem,  una  cum  nominibus  et 
coffmminibus  omnium  et  singulorum  per  tos  in  hac  parte  dtatorumy 
in  Bcheduld  eisdem  Uteris  vestris  annectendd,  descriptis,  habentesy 
sigiUo  ifestro  consignatas.  Datum  in  manerio  nostro  de  Lambeth, 
decimo  octavo  die  mensis  Augusti,  anno  Domini  1401,  et  nostras 
translationis  anno  quinto. 

Concordat  cum  originali, 

KoBERT  Blewet,  Notarius  Publicus.'f 

*  Caius,  Hut.  Cant.  Acad,  lib.  U.  page  127.  t  Prima  fart,  Thorn.  Arunde//, 

fol.  492, 

Digitized  byLiOOQlC 


9-2  HISTORY  OF  THJf  A.  D.  1401. 

The  same  day  several  letters  were  sent,  one  to  erery  particular 
College ;  as  appeareth  by  tbe  following  copy,  directed  to  Trinity 
Hall,  (singled  out,  it  seemeth,  by  itself;  whose  Master,  a  Canonist, 
was  presumed  most  knowing  in  such  legal  proceedings,)  which  only 
remaineth  in  the  register. 

Thomas^  S^c,  in  Christo  filio^  gardiano  ri'ce  custodi  GoUegii 
SanctoB  Trinitatis  Cantahrigiwy  EliensU  diosee^edSy  nostrw  Oantth 
ariensis  provincicBy  salutemy  S^c. — Quia  nos  in  progresm  msita- 
tionis  nastrcB  metropcliticcB  prcedietoB  dioecesedsy  w»  et  CoUegiuvik 
eestmm  inpersonis  et  relmSy  annuente  Domino,  tisitare  intendimus; 
tenore  prcBsentium  peremptorii  tos  dtamusy  et  per  tos  omnes  et 
singuhs  Consocios  et  BcJiolares  prcedicti  Collegii  dtare  wlvmusy  et 
mandamuSy  quod  compareatis ;  et  compareant  coram  nohi$y  ant 
commiseariis  noatria,  in  capeU&y  site  domo  capittUari  prcedicti 
Collegiiy  decimo  septimo  die  mends  S^temhria  proximi  futuriy  cum 
continuatione  et  prorogatione  dierum  tunc  sequentiuniy  ddtationem 
hanc  juata  juris  exigentiam  mbituriy  tdteriusque  facturi  et  recep- 
turi  quod  canonids  convenit  institutis,  Et  quid  feceritis  in  pros- 
misds,  nos  aut  commissarios  hujusmodi  dictis  die  et  loco  debits 
certijlcetis  per  vestraa  literas  patentesy  hunc  tenoreniy  una  cum 
nominibus  et  cognominibus  omnium  et  dngulorum  Sodorum  et 
Scholarium  per  tos  in  hoc  parte  dtatorumy  in  echedtM  dsdem 
Uteris  annectenddy  desoriptisy  habentes.  Datum  in  manerio  nostro- 
de  Lambethy  decimo  octavo  die  mensis  Augustiy  anno  Domini  1401  ^ 
et  nostrcB  translationis  anno  quinto. 

Con^xyrdat  cum  originaliy 

RoBEET  Blewet,  Notarius  Publicus. 
It  plainly  appears,  this  visitation  was  kept  a.d.  1401,  by  the 
expressed  date  thereof.  If  this  may  not  be  believed  (figures  being 
subject  to  mistake)  of  itself,  it  is  confirmed  with  the  coincidence  of* 
Arundel's  fifth  year  therein.  This  maketh  me  to  believe  my  own 
eyes,  and  a  notary'*s  hand,  with  the  consent  of  chronology,  before 
the  foreign  edition  of  "  British  Antiquities,''  *  setting  this  visitation 
later  by  four  years,  namely,  1405. 

6 — 10.  The  Occadon  of  this  Visitation.     The  Archbishop  comes  in 

Pmtp  to  Cambridge.    All  the  Scholars  appear  before  him. 

The  Chancellor  first  examined.    Several  Chests  in  Cambridgey 

with  their  Donors. 

A  word  of  the  occasion  of  this  visitation,     William  Courteney, 

Arundel's  predecessor,  some  years  since,  had  visited  the  University 

of  Oxford  tarn  in  capitequdm  in  membris.f   Now,  that  Cambridge 

•  Printed  at  Hanaw,  1605.  f  ^ni.  Brit,  (ted  in  Fiid  Thonug  Arundel^ 

page  271. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


3  HENET IV.  UNIVBRSITY  OF  CAJ^BRIDOB.  63 

should  neither  be  elated  that  it  was  aboye  the  archbishop^g  power^ 
Bor  dejected  that  it  was  beneath  his  care,  but  preserved  in  the  same 
moderate  temper  with  her  sister  Oxford,  Arundel  now  resolved  to 
visit  the  same ;  the  rather^  because  suspecting  some  Wicklivists,  his 
professed  adversaries,  to  lurk  therein. 

At  the  time  appointed,  September  16th,  the  archbishop  comes  to 
Cambridge,  in  so  stately  an  equipage  that  he  almost  daunted  the 
beholders:  till  the  Students  in  Cambridge  recovered  themselves 
vith  a  cheerful  consideration,-— that  none  of  them  were  excluded, 
except  by  their  own  unworthiness,  from  a  possibility  of  the  like 
preferment ;  who,  though  short  of  him  in  temporal  extraction,  might 
bj  their  desertd,  in  due  time,  equal  his  spiritual  preferment. 

Next  day,  the  Chancellor,  all  the  Heads  of  Houses,  with  all 
Doctors  and  Masters  in  the  University,  appeared  before  his  Grace 
in  the  Convocation-house,  and  there  solemnly  performed  unto  him 
their  canonical  obedience.  Then  the  archbishop  addressed  himself 
to  his  work,  proceeding  to  a  strict  inquiry  of  all  persons  and 
passages  subjected  to  his  inspection. 

He  began,  September  17th,  with  the  Chancellor,  whom  he  exa- 
mined singly,  secretly,  and  cum  silentioy  on  the  following  articles  :— ^ 

1.  Imprimis,  Whether  the  statutes  and  laudable  customs  of 
the  University  be  observed  by  all  therein  ? 

2.  Item.  Whether  there  be  any  Scholars  in  the  said  University 
which  refuse  to  obey  the  mandates  and  admonitions  of  the  Chan- 
cellor ? 

3.  Item.  Whether  there  be  any  disturbers  of  peace  and  unity 
in  the  said  University  ?  • 

4.  Item.  Whether  the  common  chests,  with  the  money  therein » 
and  keys  thereunto  belonging,  be  carefully  kept  ? 

Several  well-disposed  persons  bestowed  sums  of  money,  and  chests  to 
treasure  tbem  in^  which  generally  took  their  names  from  the  donor 
thereof;  or  (if  more  contributors  concurred  therein)  from  the  principal 
person  amongst  them ;  which  may  thus  (all  extant  at  this  visitation)  he 
reckoned  up : — 

CHEST.  DONOR.  SUM.  TIME. 

Billingford's  *.  .Richard  de  Billlngford £100 a.d.  1400 

Bmde's    ....... .William  de  Blide , 10  marks  . .         

Blondel's   John  de  Blondel,  rector  of  Clifton,  uncertain . .         

St.  Botolph*8.  , .  .Thomas  of  St.  Botolph's uncertain . .         

I^ahlington's . . ,  .Darlington uncertain .  ♦         

Ely's  f •  .John  de  Ely,  hishop  of  Norwich  . .  100  marks  1320 

Exeter's Thomas  Beaufort,  duke  of  Exeter,  uncertain , ,  1401 

•  Caius,  Hist,  Cant.  Jib.  ii.  page  133.  t  So  called  by  Caina  j  (becatise  Prior 

of  £ly  •)  otherwise  his  surname  was  Salmon. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


94  HISTORY  OF  THK  a.  d.  1401. 

CB£6f.  DONOB.  SUM.  TIME. 

Fen's    ,. .  .Fen. .uncertain.,  — 

Gotham's William  de  Gotham,  Chancellor. , uncertain .  •  1376 

St.JJohn's  ..... .St.  John uncertain ,  • 

Ling's Richard  Ling»*  Chancellor  of  the 

University uncertain . .  1352 

Neele's Walter  Neele,  citizen  of  London  ; 

John  Whithorn,  rector  of  Hoi- 
sted   £100 1344 

The  Queen's  ....  Eleanor,  wife  of  Edward  1 100  marks  1293 

Ronbert's Gilbert  Ronbery   uncertain . ,         

St.  Trinity's  . . .  .William  Baytman,  bishop  of  Ely  £100. .....  1348 

This  money  was  a  bank  for  the  University,  out  of  which  any  Master  of 
Arts  (especially  if  an  University-preacher)  might,  on  security  given,  borrow 
three  pounds  gratis,  for  one  or  more  years.  It  seems,  at  tiie  time  of  this 
visitation,  the  stock  in  them  was  well  husbanded,  which  since,  through 
negligence,  is  wholly  lost ;  though  annual  cofferers  are  chosen  for  key- 
keepers  of  those  cabinets  whose  jewels  are  got  away.  But  we  return  to  the 
Chancellor's  examination. 

5.  Item.  Whether  Masters,  Bachelors,  and  Doctors  formally 
perform  their  Exercises,  and  take  their  degrees  according  to  their 
deserts  ? 

6.  Item.  Whether  there  be  any  suspected  of  LoUardism  or  any 
other  heretical  pravity  ? 

We  well  understand  his  language  without  an  interpreter,  meaning 
*'  such  who  maintain  the  opinions  of  Wicklifie."  These  concealed  them- 
selves in  Cambridge ;  the  lambs  not  daring  to  bleat  when  the  wolf  was  so 
near.  Yet  some  were  detected  now,  and  others  afterwards.  For  I  impute 
it  to  the  influence  of  this  visitation,  that .  Peter  Herford,  Master  of  Arts, 
(probably  kinsman  to  Nicholas  Herford,  who,  some  twenty  years  since, 
was  condemned  for  the  same  opinions  in  Oxford,)  was,  ten  years  'after, . 
February  22nd,  enjoined  an  abjuration  of  Wicklifie's  opinions,  in  a  full 
Congregation  in  the  new  chapeLf 

7*  Item.  Whether  the  Doctors  dispute  publicly  in  the  Schools, 
how  often,  and  when  ? 

Understand  this  of  Doctors-candidates,  or  else  of  Professors,  tied  by 
their  places  to  dispute.  Otherwise,  Dociores  liberi  sunto,  was  not  a  statute 
as  yet  in  force. 

8.  Item.  Whether  the  number  of  Fellows  be  complete  in  Halls 
and  Colleges,  according  to  the  will  of  the  Pounders  ? 

This  concerned  not  such  Colleges  which  in  this  age  had  statutes  of  dimi- 
nution, to  abate  their  Fellows  in  proportion  to  the  decrease  of  their  revenues 
according  to  the  discretion  of  their  Masters. 

•  He  is  caUed  Hwrling  in  Pern's  printed  "  Tables."  t  -^ni*  ^rii.  page  2C0. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


3flEKRrir.  UNIVBRSITT  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  95 

9.  Item.  Whether  any  Scholars  be  defamed  for  any  notorious 
crime,  or  do  not  profit  in  their  studies,  or  hinder  others  from  profit- 
ing therein  ? 

10.  Item.  How  the  University  is  governed  in  victuals  or  any 
necessaries  ? 

To  these  interrogatories  the  Chancellor  made  his  particular 
answer;  and,  after  him,  the  other  Doctors  were  examined  success- 
ivelj  and  secretly ;  their  depositions  being  solemnly  recorded  in  a 
register  in  the  presence  of  the  archbishop. 

11—15.  Several  CoUegea  miited  by  the  Archbishop^a  Commissioners. 
Why  Trinity  HaU  first  visited.  The  Plea  of  tks  Guardian 
thereof;  stmmoning  none  to  appear  out  of  the  Province  of 
Cankrbwry.    An  Observation. 

Now,  although  the  archbishop  personally  visited  the  collective 
body  of  the  University  in  the  Congregation  or  Regent-house,  it  was 
beneath  his  dignity  to  descend  to  each  particular  foundation.  For 
which  purpose  he  sufficiently  deputed  certain  commissioners,  who 
severally  surveyed  every  College,  and  began,  saith  the  record,  with 
the  College  of  the  Holy  Trinity,  called  Trinity  Hall  at  this  day. 

But  why  was  this  Hall  first  visited  ?  It  was  not  for  the  seniority 
thereof,  being  the  youngest  save  one  (Gonville  Hall)  in  Cambridge. 
Was  it  out  of  respect  to  the  name,  the  Holy  Trinity,  to  whom  it 
was  dedicated  ?  Or  because  the  commissioners  (presumed  to  be 
canonists)  preferred  their  own  faculty,  as  studied  in  the  College  ? 
Or  was  it  by  casualty,  the  first  they  came  to,  as  nearest  their  lodg- 
ing ?    But  the  nut  is  not  worth  the  cracking. 

The  Guardian  of  this  College  (so  called  in  the  record)  appeared 
before  the  commissioners  ;  whom,  by  proportion  of  time,  we  collect 
to  be  Robert  Braunch,  Licentiate  in  the  Laws.  He  pleaded  for 
himself,  that,  in  obedience  to  the  archbishop's  mandates,  he  had 
summoned  all  the  Fellows  and  Scholars  of  his  College  to  appear 
accordingly,  being  within  the  province  of  Canterbury. 

Adding  moreover,  cceteros  autem  Socios  et  Scholares  dicti  Col- 
%n,  ah  eodem  CoUegio  tunc  et  nunc  absentesy  et  in  diversis  remotis 
fartihusy  etiam  extra  dictam  promnciam  agentesy  non  citaviy  nee 
pr(cmtmimy  prout  necpotui  quovis  modo. 

Herein  we  may  observe :  First.  That  the  Fellows  of  this  House 
kept  their  places,  though  travelling  in  foreign  parts,  probably  to 
perfect  themselves  in  canon  and  civil  law.  Secondly.  That  his 
answer  was  well  resented,  finding  nothing  in  the  records  returned  in 
dislike  thereof. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


96  HISTORY  OF  THS  a.d.  1407. 

IC — ^19.  Clare  HaU  mnted,  and  Corpus  Christi  College^  and  the 

White  Canons. 

Hence  the  commissioners  stepped  into  tte  next  College,  of  Clare 
Hall,  and  visited  it  in  capelld  ejmdem  Collegii^  saith  the  record. 
Wherefore  when  Doctor  Caius  telleth  us  that  saceUum  additum  in 
hujm  atdoB  complementum^  anno  1535,*  he  is  not  thus  to  be  under- 
stood, as  if  Clare  Hall  was  without  a  chapel  until  that  year ;  but 
that  their  chapel  (probably  decayed  with  age,  or  some  casualty)  was 
in  this  year  rebuilt,  and  added  thereunto. 

Then  they  visited  the  College  of  the  Annunciation  of  the 
Blessed  Mary,  (now  commonly  called  Corpus  Christi  College,)  in 
the  chapel  thereof,  namely,  in  the  place  which  now  is  the  chancel  of 
BeneH  Church, 

Hence  they  advanced  to  the  White  Canons,  over-against  Peter 
House,  where  the  name  remaineth  at  this  day ;  whom  they  visited 
in  their  church,  (now  buried  in  its  churchyard,  and  the  churchyard 
in  oblivion,)  observing  all  solemn  formalities. 

Let  a  wiser  man  satisfy  the  reader,  why  no  other  convents  in 
Cambridge  were  visited  by  the  archbishop.  Had  not  the  White 
Friars  (the  Carmelites)  as  much  need  of  scouring  as  the  White 
Canons  ?  Were  not  spots  to  be  found  as  well  in  cowls  of  other 
colours,  Black  and  Grey,  Benedictines  and  Franciscans  ?  It  is 
hard  to  conceive  these  Friars  too  high  to  be  reached  by  the  legative 
power  of  the  archbishop,  though  these  last  Orders  had  the  largest 
privileges  conferred  upon  them  by  the  pope. 

20 — 22.  A  Day  of  Non-term  uoith  the  Visiters,    Badegund  Nuns 
visited.    Their  Visitation  ended. 

It  Was  now  but  crossing  the  street  to  Peter  House ;  but,  it  being 
late,  and  the  commissioners  well  wearied,  they  returned  and  reposed 
themselves  in  their  lodgings.  The  day  following,  September  18th, 
was  all  vacation  with  them,  we  finding  nothing  by  them  performed ; 
probably  either  because  the  Lord's-day,  or  because  taken  up  in 
entertainments. 

Next  day,  September  19th,  the  Commissioners  visited  the  priory 
of  St.  Radegund,  in  the  chapter-house  thereof;  where  ttie  prioress, 
(as  the  record  calleth  her,)  and  the  nuns,  present  their  several  obe- 
dience ;  whose  examinations  and  the  depositions  were  entered  into 
a  register  for  that  purpose.  We  charitably  presume  them  chaster 
at  this  time  than  they  appeared  afterwards,  when  turned  out  for  their 
incontinency,  and  their  house  turned  into  Jesus  College. 

In  the  afternoon  they  made  quick  dispatch,  (supper  being  pro- 
vided for  the  archbishop  at  Ely,)  visiting    Michael    House,  St. 

•  Hist.  Cant.  Ub.  i.  pp.  57,  68. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


3  BENRT IV.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBlttDQB.  97 

JMb  Hospital  of  Regulars,  (since  translated  into  St  Jolm^s  CoU 
lege,)  Peter's  College,  and  Pembroke  Hall,  in  their  seyeral  cfaa* 
pels;  aod  then  his  Orace  took  his  journey  towaids  Ely,  where  be 
was  well  welcomed  by  John  Fordham,  the  bishop  thereof. 

23—25.  Qumy^  about  Om%s$um$  cf  He  Commisiumers*  HaUU 
wky  nai  tutted.  Reformation  remitted  to  the  AreUnehofe 
Leim/re. 

Some  will  wonder,  no  mention  in  this  visitation  of  Oonville  Hall, 
(the  puisne  House  in  Cambridge,)  as  if  so  late  and  little,  that  the 
commissioners  did  oversee  it.  More  will  admire  at  the  omission  of 
King's  Hall,  (the  largest  and  richest  foundation  in  Cambridge,) 
enough  to  make  some  suspect  that  royal  foundation  subjected  only 
to  the  immediate  visiting  of  the  king  their  patron. 

As  for  Hostels,  the  wonder  is  not  so  great,  why  those  commis- 
sioners stooped  not  down  to  visit  them  :  First.  Because  dependent 
Hostels  weie^  no  doubt,  visited  in  and  under  those  Colleges  to 
vhich  they  did  relate.  Absolute  Hostels,  which  stood  by  them* 
selves,  being  all  of  them  unendowed,  by  consequence,  had  no  consi- 
derable statutes,  the  breach  whereof  was  the  proper  subject  of  this 
tigitation.  Besides,  the  graduates  therein  may  be  presumed,  for 
tbeir  personal   demtonours,  visited  in  the  collective  body  of  the 


But  when  this  visitation  was  ended,  it  was  but  begun  in  effect^ 
H^ng  such  fiiults  which,  on  examination,  were  discovered  therein, 
verQ  remitted  to  the  archbishop's  reformation  at  his  own  leisure ;  as 
OBe  oC  his  successors  *  in  the  see  (but  of  a  different  religion)  hath 
infonned  us.  Yet  no  great  matter  of  moment  appears  in  his  regis- 
ter, (save  the  augmentation  of  the  commons  of  Trinity  Hall, 
whereof  before,)  which  I  have  carefully  perused,  by  the  courteous 
leave  of  Master  Sherman  of  Croydon,,  the  register  of  them ;  to 
whose  kindness  I  am  much  indebted.  For,  may  my  candle  go  out 
in  a  stench,  when  I  will  not  confess  whence  I  have  lighted  it. 

28)  27.  ^a&ry  :   What  now  became  of  Camhridgie  ancient  Exempt 
tions  f    A  probable  Conjecture. 

Some  will  say,  **  Where  were  now  the  privileges  of  the  pope, 
tempting  Cambridge]  from  archi-episcopal  jurisdiction  ?  ^  I  con-^ 
ceive  they  are  even  put  up  in  the  same  chest  with  Oxford  privileges, 
pretending  to  as  great  immunities :  I  mean,  that  the  validity  of 
them  both,  though  not  cancelled,  was  suspended  for  the  present. 
If  it  be  true,  that  the  legate  de  Latere  hath  in  some  cases  equal 
power  with  the  pope,  whom  he  represents ;  and  if  it  be  true,  which 
•  Matthew  Parker,  in  Ant,  BrU,  pagfi  274, 


H 


Digitized  by 


Google 


9S  HISTORY  OF  THE  A.D.  1407, 

some  bold  canonists  aver,  that  none  may  say  to  the  pope,  Gwr  ita 
facia  f  it  was  not  safe  for  any  in  that  age  to  dispute  the  power  of 
Thomas  Amndel. 

But  pog3ibly  the  Universities  willingly  waved  their  papal  privi- 
leges: and  if  so,  injuria  non  Jit  volerUibus.  I  find  something 
sounding  this  way,  how  the  Scholars  were  aggrieved,  that,  tbe 
supreme  power  being  fixed  in  their  Chancellor,  there  lay  no  appeal 
from  him,  (when  injurious,)  save  to  the  pope  alone.  Wherefore 
the  Students,  that  they  might  have  a  nearer  and  cheaper  redress, 
desired  to  be  eased  of  their  burdensome  immunities,  and  submitted 
themselves  to  archi-episcopal  visitation.* 

Richard  de  Deerham,  Chancellor. 

28 — 30.  Oxford  Argentine  chaUengeth  oM  Cambridge.  An  AceawU 
ofU»  Achievements^  (after  Prose^)  now  in  Verse.    A.B.  1407. 

This  year  a  strange  accident  (if  true)  happened ;  and  take  it  as 
an  Oxford  antiquary -f  is  pleased  to  relate  it  unto  us :  one  John 
Argentine,  a  Scholar  of  Oxford,  came  and  challenged  the  whole 
University  of  Cambridge  to  dispute  with  him ;  as  is  reported  in 
William  of  Worcester,  the  trumpeter,  it  seems,  to  this  doubty  \ 
champion.  I  can  say  little  to  the  matter,  only  this :  As  for 
William  Worcester's  avouching  his  acts,  he  appeared  neither  in 
Bale's  nor  Pitt's  Catalogues  of  illustrious  Authors  :  only  the 
latter  hardly  recovereth  him  in  his  appendix,  (confessing  himself 
ignorant  of  the  age  he  lived  in,)  not  mentioning  the  tiUe  of  the 
book  cited  by  the  antiquary,  by  whom  the  achievements  of  this 
Argentine  (though  no  doubt  in  themselves  very  whole  and  entire) 
are  but  lamely  delivered,  according  to  the  tenor  ensuing : — 

First.  Master  Twyne  saith  of  him  :  Au»as  eroit  9olw^  "  He  alone 
challenged  "  to  dispute  with  all  Cambridge  ;  which  might  be  true ; 
and  still  as  true  of  him  as  of  Phaeton, 

MagHis  tamen  escidit  auais. 

But  he  proceeds  to  tells  us,  that  his  performances  herein  may  easily 
be  understood  out  of  William  Worcester,§  in.  wJiom  thus  it  is 
written : — Actus  Magistri  Johannis  Argmtin  publice  habitus  in 
Universitate  Cantabrigice^  contra  omnes  JRegentes  hujus  Unitersi' 
tatis^  quoad  Oppositiones^  in  anno  Christi  1407.  "  The  Act  of 
John  Argentin,  publicly  kept  in  the  University  of  Cambridge, 
against  all  the  Regents  of  this  University,  as  to  oppositions,  anm 
1407." 

•  jint.  Brit,  in   fFiL  Courtney,  f  Brian  Twyne,  Ant,  Acad.  Oj^m. 

page  336.  J  Queiy :  Does  Fuller  intend  this  word  to  convey  the  meaning  of 

4hubtjkil,  OT  of  douffhty  ?  The  latter  word  occurs  with  its  usual  orthography,  in  a  pre* 
ceding  page,  82.— Edit.  §  Brian  Twyne,  page  ut  priw,  lined  32. 


Digitized  by 


Ljoogle 


9  BMMtLJ  IV.  UNIVBRSITY  OF  CAMBftlDQB.  '  99 

Let  froward  spirits,  who  delight  in  contesting,  cavil  at  the^doubt- 
fulness  of  the  pionoun,  hujos  UmverdtaUi^  which  might  relate  to 
the  UniTersity  of  Oxford,  where  Master  Twyne  met  with  the 
manuscript  of  this  William  Worcester ;  and  then  the  sense  will  be, 
that  John  Argentine,  being  a  Gambiidge-man,  (of  iHiich  name  a 
worshipful  &mOj  then  flourished  at  Horseheath,  within  ten  miles  of 
Cambridge,*  )  did  in  Cambridge  keep  an  Act  in  Opposition  to  all 
Oxford-men,  who  commonly  at  the  Commencement  repair  thither.  I 
say,  let  such  as  delight  in  cayiUiog  turn  the  tables  by  this  sleight  ;*!* 
whilst  I  can  willingly  allow  Argentine  an  Oxonian,  and  his  daring 
Act  kept  at  Cambridge.  Only  I  add,  that  the  words  of  Worcester 
barely  import  the  boldness  of  his  challenge,  no  brayeiy  of  his 
conquest;  not  acquainting  us  with  any  great  applause  ensuiog 
thereupon. 

Havixsg  done  with  the  prose.  Master  Twyne  proceeds  to  the 
poetry,  of  this  performance ;  whose  words  are  these  i-^TVm  ipnut 
canUones  mthjuryity  cum  hoe  exordio^ — 

Neu  lis  turda  rege»$  nostrot  tacUmra  per  amnot, 

^t  hoe  queque  epUogo^ — 

Et  velit  hue  eonferre  pedem  smera  tmrta  regenium^ 
Ut feral  un  metis  eeciem  bene  carmina  nereis, 

EcBC  GtUidmw  WoreestrmiU, 

Still  we  are  in  the  twilight,  it  being  again  questionable  to  whom 
the  pionoun  ipdus  doth  relate.  If  to  Argentine,  he  was  both  the 
Achdlles  and  Homer  of  his  own  praise ;  and  then  the  less  credit  is 
to  be  given  to  his  own  relation.  But  if  ipHus  (which  is  more  pro- 
per  and  probable)  refers  to  William  Worcester,  I  wonder  that 
Master  Twyne  (privileged,  no  doubt,  to  peruse  the  whole  poem) 
gives  us  only  the  beginning  and  end  thereof;  or,  if  you  will,  the 
prologue  and  epilogue  of  this  tragi-comedy.  It  leaveth  it  suspi- 
cious that  the  inteimediate  verses  had  no  great  matters  of  moment 
of  this  champion^s  performance,  because  passed  over  in  silence. 
But  I  will  not  blast  his  victorious  bays.  Let  Argentine  be  chal- 
lenger, cpmbatanty  and  conqueror;  sure  I  am,  when  he  came  to 
Cambridge,  he  left  many  behind  him  at  Oxford  of  more  learning, 
who  did  smile  at— and  [of  more]  modesty,  who  did  blush  for — ^his 
bold  undertaking.  Only  I  wonder  that  this  scholar-errant,  after  his 
return  from  his  great  cuhentures^  was  not  wedded  to  some  &ir  lady: 
I  mean,  that  he  got  no  great  preferment ;  I  never  after  finding  this 

*  Camden's  Briiannia  in  Cambridgeshire,  f  Though  Fuller  thus  hnmoronsly 

ahaaadooB  the  preceding  e^jectnrey  (that  John  Argentine  was  a  member  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Cambridge,)  yet  it  assunes  the jiemblance  of  great  probability,  from  the  drcum- 
etaace,  that  a  person  of  the  same  name  is  recorded  by  FoUer,  in  a  subsequent  page, 
(110^)  as  the  sixth  Provost  of  King's  CoUege.— Edit. 

"    ^  Digitized  by  L^OOgle 


100  History  of  thb  a.d.  i4ir. 

man,  so  mtich  in^riting,  advanced  in  church  or  coromonwealili. 
Bat,  enough  of  this  great  champion ;  his  bare  memory  being  able 
to  affright  mj  single  self,  who,  when  aliye,  durst  diallenge  a  whote 
University, 

Eudo  de  Zouch,  third  time  Chancellor,  a.  d.  1412. 

31.  The  Chancellor  sent  to  Borne.    1  Henry  V.    A.  D.  1413, 

Richard  de  Billingsford,  Chancellor.  He  obtained  many  privi- 
leges for  the  University.  He  was  sent  from  the  king,  with  the 
bishop  of  Ely,  and  Chancellor  of  Oxford,  to  Rome,*  to  tell  the  two 
popes,  striviAg  for  the  place,  that,  except  one  would  yield,  England 
would  acknowledge  obedience  to  neither.  In  Billingsford'^s  absence, 
Firiar  Thomas  Ashwell  is  called  "  President  of  the  University.''  A 
statute  this  year  was  made  for  wearing  hoods,  either  of  budge  or 
lambs'  skin. 

Stephen  de  Scroope,  Doctor  of  Law,  Chancellor,  a.d.  1414. 

John  de  Rikendale,  Rikengale,  Rikenpale,  (so  many  ways  his 
name  is  written,)  Chancellor,  a.  d.  1415.  He  was  afterward  bishop 
of  Chichester. 

32—34.  The  Oriffincd  of  Vioe-ChanceOors.     Thomas  Markant's 
ea:ceUent  Book^  lost  and  founds  lost  and  founds  lost.    A.D.  1417. 

Henry  Stockton,  Vice-ChanceUor ;  Thomas  Ferkhill  and  Thomas 
Markant,  Proctors. 

The  Chancellors  of  Cambridge  being  lately  either  persons  of 
noble  birth  or  great  employment,  whose  occasions  often  caused 
their  absence,  it  was  fashionable  henceforward  to  substitute  Vice- 
chancellors  in  their  room. 

Thomas  Markant,  the  junior  Proctor,  was  Fellow  of  Peter 
House,  and  a  great  lover  of  antiquity :  he  gave  a  book  to  the  Uni- 
Tersity,  of  his  own  collection,  concerning  the  privileges  thereof. 
This,  though  by  the  will  of  the  donor  carefully  kept  in  a  locked 
chest,  was  lost  by  negligence,  or  purloined  by  dishonesty,  till,  falling 
into  the  hands  of  Master  Robert  Hare,  that  great  antiquary,  it  was 
restored  to  the  University. 

Since,  it  hath  been  lost  again,  when  Master  Matthew  Wren, 
since  bishop  of  Ely,  casually  going  into  Sussex,  found  it  in  a 
friend's  house,  and  (being  a  great  preserver  of  ancient  monuments) 
carefully  procured  the  solemn  restitution  thereof.  "  But  who  can 
stay  that  which  will  away  ?  "  I  am  informed  it  is  lost  again  ;  which 
third  relapse  I  suspect  mortal — ^that  the  book  will  never  be  recovered 
to  the  University.  • 

*  a.fl.  Matthew  Wreo. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


«  HEKRY  V.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRiDQK;.  :     •  !•' V'; :.':  5tt4r  ;  • 

35-^.  IHffermice  betwixt  the  Unwenity  and  Londoners.  The 
Original  of  Sturbridge-Jair.  Sale  of  the  Pritileffes  thereof 
ieasonabhf  prevented, 

A  difference  bappenhog  betwixt  the  University  and  tlie  city  of 
London,  about  the  oversight  of  victuals,  measures,  and  weights,  m 
Sturbridge-&ir,  the  care  of  all  three,  pendente  lite,  was  referred  to 
Sir  Wilfiam  Asenhull,  knight.  High  Sheriff  of  Cambridgeshire.* 
I  find  not  the  issue  of  the  contest. 

This  Sturbridge-fair  is  so  "called  from  Stur,  a  little  rivulet  (on 
both  sides  whereof  it  is  kept)  on  the  east  of  Cambridge  ;  whereof 
tbis  original  is  reported : — A  clothier  of  Kendal,  a  town  charactered 
to  be  lanifcii  ghriA,  et  industrid  prceceUens^f  casually  wetting 
his  cloth  in  that  water  in  his  passage  to  London,  exposed  it  there  to 
sale,  on  cheap  terms,  as  the  worse  for  the  wetting ;  and  yet,  it 
seems,  saved  by  the  bargain.  Next  ^ear  he  returned  again,  with 
some  other  of  his  townsmen,  proffering  drier  and  dearer  cloth  to  be 
sold ;  so  that  within  few  years  hither  came  a  confluence  of  buyers^ 
sdkrsy  and  lookera-on,  which  are  the  three  principles  of  a  fair.  In 
memorial  whereof,  Kendal-men  challenge  some  privilege  in  that 
place,  annually  choosing  one  of  the  town  to  be  chief,  before  whom 
an  antic  sword  was  carried  with  some  mirthful  solemnities ;  disused 
of  late,  since  these  sad  times,  which  put  menu's  minds  into  more- 
serious  employment. 

It  is  at  this  day  the  most  plentiful  of  wares  in  all  England ;: 
(most  fairs  in  other  places  being  but  markets  in  comparison  there- 
of;)  being  an  amphibion,  as  well  going  on  ground,  as  swimming 
by  water,  by  the  benefit  of  a  navigable  river.  Nothing  else  have  I 
to  observe  hereof,  save  that,  in  the  last  year  of  queen  Mary,  the 
University,  necessitated  for  money,  were  about  to  contract  with  the 
townsmen,  for  a  small  sum,  to  sell  unto  them  all  the  privileges  in 
that  fair ;  had  not  Dr.  Robert  Brassey,  Provost  of  King's,  by 
the  stout  denying  of  his  consent,  preserved  the  same  to  the 
University.J 

38 — 40.  A  beneficial  Grant  to   Unitersity-meii,  refused  by  their 
own  FoUy ;  but,  on  second  Thoughts,  accepted. 

A  synod  being  kept  at  London,  Robert  Gilbert,  Warden  of 
Merton  College,  Doctor  of  Divinity,  in  the  behalf  of  Oxford  ;  and 
Thomas  Kington,  Doctor  of  Law,  Advocate  of  the  Arches,  in  the 
behalf  of  Cambridge ;  §  made  two  eloquent  orations,  that  the  worth 
of  scholars  in  the  University  might  be  rewarded,  and  preferment 

*  ROBEKT  Hare,  in  archivis.  t  Camden's  Britannia  in  Westmoreland. 

I  D.  Hatch BR'9  m.s.  of  the  ProroMs  of  King's  College.  $  f>  rtgistro  Cantuar^ 

Hen.  Chichefy, 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


:  l(^  • ; ;  .  .';.  ^    :  HISTORY  OF  TBB  a.d.  1438. 

proportioned  to  their  deserts.  Hereupon  it  was  ordered,  (bzi  the 
patrons  of  vacant  benefice^  shoold  bestow  them  hereafter  on  snch  as 
were  gradmtted  in  the  UniYereity,  ffradm  et  profesrianii  ratme 
juxta  beneficiorum  census  et  vcUares  habit&.  So  that  the  best  and 
most  liyings  diould  be  collated  on  those  of  the  best  and  highest 
Degrees. 

Dr.  Klington,  returning  to  Oamlwidge,  instead  of  thanks,  which 
he  might  jnstlj  have  expected  for  his  saccessfnl  industrj,  found 
that  the  &Tonr  he  procured  was  not  accepted  of.  The  R^nt- 
Masters  in  the  Congr^tion,  out  of  their  jonthfal  rashness^  rejected 
the  kindness  merely  out  of  spleen  and  q)ite,  because  the  Doctors 
would  be  serred  with  ike  first  weA  best  liTings>  and  the  refuse  only 
fall  to  their  share.* 

John  Rikendale,  Rikei^le,  Rikenpale,  Chancellor,  a.  b.  1419. 

The  Regent-Masters*,  being  grown  older  and  wiser,  were  pe^ 
snaded  to  accept  the  proffer,  sending  their  thanks  by  the  Chsneellor 
to  another  synod  now  kept  at  London.  And  now,  when  the 
bestowing  of  benefices  on  University-men  waa  clearly  concluded, 
•the  unlearned  Friars  (whose  interest  he^ein  was  much  concerned) 
mainly  stickled  against  it,  until,  by  the  king^s  interposing,  they  were 
made  to  desist.-f-  The  same  year  it  was  ordered  in  parliament,  that 
none  should  practise  physic  or  surgery,  excqpt  approved  on  by  one 
of  the  Universities.! 

Thomas  de  Cobham,  Chancellor^  a.]&.  1422. 

Robert  Fitzhugh,  Master  of  Kirk's  Hall,  Chancellor,  afterward 
bishop  of  London,  1423. 

Marmaduke  Liunley,  Chancellor,  afterwards  bishc^  of  Lincoln, 
1428. 

Wffliam  Wimble,  Chancellor,  1429. 

John  Holebrook,  Chancellor,  1430. 

41 — 43.  Differences  betrnttt  tie  Bishop  cf  Ely  and  tic  UnrDcrnt^y 
remitted  hy  tie  Pope  to  tie  Prior  of  BamiceU.     Tie  Pope 
ffiveth  iis  Sentence  for  Cambridge^  Exemption.    9  Henry  VI. 
A.D.  1431. 
Difference  arising  betwixt  the  University,  and  Philip  Morgan, 
bishop  of  Ely,  pope  Martin  V.  at  the  instance  of  the  University, 
appointed  the  Prior  of  Barnwell,  and  John  Deeping,  Canon  of 
Lincoln,  his  delegates,  to  inquire  of  the  privileges  of  the  Uni- 
versity. 

The  Prior  undertook  the  whole  business,  examined  seven  wit* 
nesses,  all  aged,  (some  past  threescore  and  ten,)  and  perused  all 

*  Ant,  Brit,  page  278.  t  idem^  ui  prius.  I  Robbat  Habb»i» 

Jtrckivit, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


15  HKNBr  Ti.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  103 

papal  Bolls,  privileges  and  charters;  wherein  he  found  that  the 
Chancellon  of  Cambridge  hare  all  eccleaiastical  jurisdiction  (name- 
ly, excommunication  and  suspension)  oyer  scholars  and  their  ser* 
vants,  probates  of  Wills,  gnnting  of  administration,  and  taking 
their  accounts  ;*  the  aged  witnesses  deposing  it  on  their  own  sight 
and  knowledge. 

Tlus  being  returned  by  the  Prior,  pope  Martin  pronounced  his 
sentence,  wherein  he  declaieth,  that  the  University,  time  out  of 
mind,  was  in  the  possession,  use,  and  exercise  of  ecclesiastical  and 
spiritual  jurisdiction,  without  any  disquieting  of  archbishops, 
bishops,  or  their  officers  :  and  for  the  time  to  come  he  confirmed 
their  inminnities,i^  which  his  successor,  Eugenius  IV.  re-confirmed 
unto  them.  This  strengthens  our  former  conjecture,  that  the 
University  willingly  receded  &om  their  own  privileges  in.  ArundelV 
visitation. 

William  Lassells,  Chancellor,  a.  d.  1431. 

Sichard  Caudrey,  ChanceUor,  1432. 

44.  A  comtcmi  Tenure  of  princely  EarU. 

Jobn  de  Langton,  Chancellor,  a.d.  1436. 

Richard  duke  of  York  was  at  this  time  earl  of  Cambridge  ;  the 
last  that  ware  that  honour  for  many  years,  in  whose  death  it  was 
extinct.  And  now  let  the  reader  at  one  view  behold  the  great  per- 
sons dignified  with  the  earldom  of  Cambridge  :— Scotch  Kings. 
— 1,  David.  2.  Henry.  3.  Malcolm.  Oebman  Pbinces.— 4. 
John  earl  of  Hainault.  5.  William  marquess  of  Juliers.  Eng- 
lish Dukes. — 6.  Edmund  of  Langley,  fifth  son  to  Edward  III.u 
7.  Edward  his  son.  8.  Richard  duke  of  York,  his  brother,  father 
to  king  Edward  IV.  No  city,  town,  or  place  in  England  was  ever 
honoured  with  so  many  and  great  persons  as  Cambridge  was ;  whose 
earldom,  sleeping  for  almost  two  himdred  years,  was  at  last  conferred 
by  king  James  on  the  royally-extracted  marquess  Hamilton;, 
whereof  in  due  place. 

45,  46.  The  University's  Money  embezzled.     Never  restored  to  the 
same  Degree,     Vehement  Suspicion  of  Corruption. 

About  this  time  the  many  chests  of  money  (formerly  welt- 
filled,  and  worthily  employed  for  the  good  of  the  University  and 
eminent  scholars  therein)  were  squandered  away,  and  embezzled  to 
private  men^s  profit.  I  cannot  particularize  in  their  names,  nor 
charge  any  single  person  :  but  it  appeared  too  plainly,  that,  of  four- 
teen or  fifteen  chests,  not  four  were  left,  and  the  sums  in  them 
inconsidemble ;  so  that  Cambridge  never  recovered  her  bank,  nor 

•  RoBEBT  Haslb,  in  Archivisj  vol.  ii.  fol.  103.  t  -W<?»*,  vol.  ii.  fol.  116. 

Digitized  by  LjOOQIC 


lOi  HrSTORT  OF  THS  a.d.  1438. 

recruited  her  chests  to  the  former  proportion.  Yet  afterwards  she 
met  with  two  good  benefiu^tors,  the  one  Thomas  Bourchier,  arch- 
bishop of  Canterbury,  who  bestowed  on  her  an  hundred  pounds ; 
the  other  the  Lady  Elizabeth  Cleere,  duchess  of  Norfolk,  which  put 
the  University  in  stock  again,  bestowing  no  less  than  a  thousand 
marks  at  several  times  on  the  public  treasury ;  though  within  few 
years  little  was  left  thereof, 

I  know  it  is  pleaded,  that  the  expensive  suits  of  the  University 
against  the  townsmen  in  the  reigns  of  king  Henry  VII.  and  king 
Henry  VIII.  much  exhausted  their  coffers.  But  when  aU  is 
audited,  a  strong  suspicion  still  remains  on  some,  in  public  employ- 
ment, of  unjust  dealing.  Sure  it  is>  in  the  reign  of  king  Edward 
VI.  the  treasury  was  so  empty,  it  wanted  wherewith  to  defray 
necessary  and  ordinary  expenses. 


SECTION  V. 

RADULPHO   FREEMAN,  IN  COMITATU  HERTFORDENSI 

ARMIGERO* 

Solon  interrogatus  a  Crceso  regum  opulentissimo, 
quern  ille  mortalium  agnosceret  beatisaimum,  Tellum 
quendam  Atheniensem  civem  priyatum  nominavit,*  Huic 
res  nee  augusta,  nee  angusta ;  cum  inter  invidiam  et  ino- 
piam  pari  ferS  distantid  coUocaretur. 

Si  Solon  nunc  in  vivis,  te  felicissimis  hujus  saeculi 
annumeraret ;  cui  mens  composita,  corpus  (licet  tenue) 
integrum,  domus  elegans,  supellex  nitida,  patrimonium 
satis  amplum,  soboles  numerosa  ac  ingenua. 

Nee  nimiis  titulis  tumescis,  nee  te  obscuritas  premit, 
cui  talis  obtigit  conditio  qud  melior  baud  fecile  fingi 
potest. 

Quod  si  tibi  suppetat  bora  succisiva,  quae  non  sit 
fraudi  serioribus  tuis  negotiis,  perlegas,  quaeso,  banc 
Historiae  meae  portiunculam,  cujus  pars  majuscula  in 
CoUegio  Regali  describendo  consumitur;  in  quo  (ut 
accepi)  tu  olim  litteris  incubuisti. 

^  PLrTARCHUS  in  Vtid  Solaris. 

Digitized  by  CjOOQ IC 


]5  IBNIf  VI. 


UNIVBRSITY  OF  CAMBBIDOB. 


105 


1^.  OamAridge  Fern  endea/wmred  to  be  drained.    All  in  vain* 
Argument  pro  and  con  Fenrdraining.    A.D.  1436. 

About  this  time,  (for  I  cannot  attain  the  certain  year,)  some 
coDsideiable  persons  of  our  nation  undertook  the  draining  of  the 
feo8  near  to  Cambridge.  They  wanted  not  Dutchmen  out  of  the 
Low  Countries  to  assist  them,  where  each  peasant  is  bom  a  pioneer; 
and  Tast  sums  were  expended  in  making  of  ditches  and  baoiks,  im- 
pregnable (as  conceived)  against  all  assaults  of  inundation. 

But  in  the  next  (being  a  wet  and  windy)  winter,  down  comes  ihe 
bailiff  of  Bedford^  (so  the  country-people  commonly  call  the  over- 
flowing of  the  river  Ouse,)  attended,  like  a  person  of  his  quality, 
with  many  servants,  (the  accession  of  tributary  brooks,)  and  breaks 
down  all  their  paper-banks,  as  not  water-shot-free,  reducing  all  to  the 
former  condition. 

This  accident  put  the  wits  of  that  and  succeeding  ages,  upon  the 
dispute  of  the  feasibility  of  the  design :  and  let  us  sum  up  the 
arguments  against  axA/or  this  undertaking. 


ABGUMEMT. 

I.— SoMB  objected,  that  God 
saith  to  the  water,  ''Hitherto 
fihalt  thou  come,  and  no  fur- 
ther,'' Job  xxxviii.  11.  It  is 
therefore  a  trespass  on  the  Di- 
vine prerogative  for  man  to*  pre- 
sume to  give  other  bounds  to 
the  water,  than  what  Ood  hath 
appointed.  Even  the  Heathen 
man  was  so  Christian  as  to  say, 
BebuB-IHvinitAs  eonstittUis  mc^ 
nut  non  est  injicienda,* 

n. — Many  have  attempted, 
bat  not  effected,  it.  None  ever 
wrestled  with  it,  but  it  gave 
them  a  foil,  if  not  a  &11,  to  the 
bruising,  if  not  breaking)  of  their 
backs.  Many  have  burnt  their 
fingers  in  these  waters  ;  and,  in- 
stead of  draining  the  fens,  emp- 
tied their  own  estates.  It  hath 
been  almost  as  unsuccessful,  as 
the  letting  of  the  Red  into  the 


ANSWEB. 

I. — The  aigument  holdeth  io 
application  to  the  ocean,  which 
is  a  wild  horse,  only  to  be 
broken,  backed,  and  bridled  by 
Him  who  is  the  Maker  thereof. 
But  it  is  a  false  and  a  lazy  prin- 
ciple, if  applied  to  fresh  waters ; 
from  which  human  industry  may 
[rescue]  and  hath  rescued  many 
considerable  parcels  of  ground. 


II. — Many  men's  undertaking 
thereof  insinuates  the  possibility 
of  the  project.  Otherwise,  it  is 
unlikely  so  many  discreet  per« 
sons  would  befool  themselves  in 
seeking  what  is  not  to  be  found. 
The  failing  is  not  in  the  unfeasi- 
bility  of  the  design,  but  in  the 
accidental  de&ults  of  the  under- 
takers, wanting  either  heads, 
(discretion,)  or  hearts,   (resola- 


•  PAC8iiKiA9,  in  Corinth^ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


loe 


HISTORY  OF  THK 


A.D.  1436. 


ARGUMENT. 

Midland  Sea,   to  the  kings  of 
Egypt  who  endeavoured  it. 

III.— Morton,  bishop  of  Ely, 
(one  of  the  wealthiest  who  ever 
sate  in  that  See,)  almost  wasted 
his  estate,  by  cutting  a  water- 
passage,  (known  by  the  name  of 
the  New  Leam,)  and  well  nigh 
beggared  himself,  in  hope  to  en- 
rich his  town  of  Wisbcach  with 
trading  thereby. 

IV. — ^An  alderman  of  Cam- 
bridge (chosen  a  buigess  in  par- 
liament) affirmed  the  Pens  to  be 
like  a  crust  of  bread  swimming 
in  a  dish  of  water.  So  that 
under  eight  or  ten  feet  earth, 
it  is  nothing  but  mere  water. 
Impossible  therefore  the  draining 
thereof,  if  surrounded  by  that 
liquid  element  both  above  and 
beneath. 

v.— The  river  Grant  or  Cam, 
(call  it  as  you  please,)  running 
by  Cambridge,  will  have  its 
stream  dried  up  by  the  draining 
of  the  Fens.  Now,  as  Cam- 
bridge is  concerned  in  its  river ; 
so  that  whole  county,  yea,  this 
whole  kingdom,  is  concerned  in 
Cambridge.  No  reason,  there- 
fore, that  private  men's  particular 
profit  should  be  preferred  before 
an  universal  good,  or  good  of  an 
University. 


VI. — The  Pens,  preserved  in 
their  present  property,  afford 
great  plenty  and  variety  of  fish 
and  fowl,  which  here  have  their 


ANSWER. 

tion,)  or  hands,  (assistants,)  or 
purses, — performance  of  pay,— 
to  people  employed  therein. 

III.-— It  is  confessed  a  burden 
too  heavy  for  the  back  of  any 
single  person,  how  great  soever. 
And  therefore  it  calls  for  a  cor- 
poration of  wise  and  w:ealthy  per- 
sons to  undertake  the  same. 


IV. — Interest  betrayed  his 
judgment  to  an  evident  error. 
And  his  brains  seemed  rather  to^ 
swim,  instead  of  this  floating 
earth. ,  Por,  such  as  have  sound- 
ed, as  I  may  say,  the  depth  of 
that  ground,  find  it  to  be  terra 
firma^  and  no  doubt  as  solid  to 
the  centre  as  any  other  earth  in 
England. 

V. — It  Is  granted,  the  water 
by  Cambridge  kindles  and  keepfr 
in  the  fire  therein.  No  hope 
of  sufficient  fuel  on  reasonable 
rates,  except  care  be  taken  for 
preserving  the  river  navigable, 
which  may  be  done,  and  the 
Fens  drained  nevertheless.  To 
take  away  the  thief  is  no  wasting 
or  weakening  to  the  wick  of 
the  candle.  Assurance  may  be 
given,  'that  no  damage  shall 
redound  to  the  stream  of  Grant, 
by  stopping  other  superfluous 
waters. 

VI. — ^A  large  first — ^makes  rc- 
compence  for  the  shorter  second 
—course  at  any  man's  table. 
And  who  will  not  prefer  a  tame 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


i5  BKSmj  IT. 


UNIVBRSITT  07  CAVBRIDOB. 


lOT 


AXGUHXIIT. 

seminaries  and  nuneries ;  which 
will  be  destroyed  on  the  diain«- 
ing  tfao^eof ;  so  that  none  will 
be  had,  but  at  excessiTe  prices* 

VII. — The  Fens  affoid  plenty 
of  sedge,  tni^  and  reed ;  the 
▼aot  whereof  will  be  found,  if 
their  nature  be  altered. 


AUSWKa. 


VIII. — Many  thousands  of 
poor  people  are  maintuned  by 
fishing  and  fowling  in  the  Fens> 
who  will  all  be  at  a  loss  of  live- 
lihood, if  their  bams  be  burnt, 
that  is,  if  the  Fens  be  drainedl. 


IX. — Grant  the  Fens  drained 
with  great  difficulty,  they  will 
quickly  revert  to  their  old  con- 
dition, like  to  the  Pontine 
Marsbes  in  Italy.f  This  disease 
of  the  dropsy  (if  aqiM  super 
ciitem^  as  well  as  intercutu^  may 
be  so  called)  will  return  to  the 
Fens  again. 

X. — Grant  them  drained,  and 
so  continuing ;  as  now  the  great 
fishes  therein  prey  on  the  less, 
so  then  wealthy  men  would  de- 


sheep  before  a  wild  dack,  a  good 
&t  ox  before  a  well-grown  eel  ? 


VII.-— The  commodities  are 
inconsiderable  to  balance  the 
profit  of  good  grass  and  grain, 
which  those  grounds,  if  drained, 
would  produce.  He  cannot 
complain  of  wrong  who  hath  a 
suit  of  buckram  taken  from  him, 
and  one  of  velvet  given  in  lieu 
thereof.  Besides,  provision  may 
be  made,  that  a  suflSciency  of 
such  ware-trash*  may  still  be 
preserved. 

VIII.— It  is  confessed,  that 
many  whose  hands  are  becramp- 
ed  with  laziness,  live  (and  only 
live,  as  never  gaining  any  es- 
tates) by  that  employment. 
But  such,  if  the  Fens  were 
drained,  would  quit  their  idle- 
ness, and  betake  themselves  to 
more  lucrative  manu&ctures. 

IX.— If  a  patient,  perfectly 
cured,  will  be  careless  of  his 
health,  none  will  pity  his  relapse. 
Moderate  cost,  with  constant 
care,  will  easily  preserve  what  is 
drained;  the  Low  Countries 
affording  many  proofs  th^eof. 


X.— -Oppression  is  not  essen- 
tial either  to  draining  or  enclos- 
ing, though  too  often  a  concomi- 
tant of  both.     Order  may  be 


*  This  contpoiiiid  word  doe«  not  convey  iSbe  idea,  that  the  inuk — '*  Mdge>  turf,  and 
reed"— is  an  azticle  for  sale.  But  it  here  seems  desoiptire  of  the  small  pieces  of 
i«ood,  sedge,  turf,  4fec.  which  are  collected  in  vast  quantities  at  the  head  of  eveiy  ttear 
or  weir,  when  ihe  river  is  low. — Edit.  t  Camden's  Britannia  in  Cambiidgc- 


Digitized  by 


L^oogie 


103  HISTORY  (OF  THE  a.d.  1443.  i 

I 
AJ16UMENT.  ANSWER. 

Voui  the  poorer  sort  of  people,  taken  by  commissioners  of  qush 
Injurious  partage  would  follow  lity,  empowered  for  that  purpose, 
upon  the  enclosures,  and  rich  that  such  a  prc^ortion  of  corn- 
men,  to  make  room  for  them-  mons  may  be  allotted  to  the 
selves,  would  justle  the  poor  peo-  poor,  that  all  private  persons 
pie  out  of  their  commons^  may4>e  pleased,  and  an  advance 

accrue  thereby  to  the  commonr 

wealth. 

However,  the  generality  of  people  in  that  age  was  possessed  with 
a  firm  opinion,  the  project  was  utterly  impossible  to  be  brought  to 


4 — ^10.  Since  effected  to  Admiration.  Labor  improbus  omnia 
vincit.  Cambridffe  why  jecUoiM  herein  ;  never  pleased.  Deep 
Philosophy.    A  real  Ee/utation.     Cambridge  Air  bettered. 

But  the  best  argument  to  prove  that  a  thing  may  be  done,  is 
actually  to  do  it.  The  "  undertakers  '*  in  our  present  age  have 
happily  lost  their  first  name  in  a  far  better  of  "  performers  ;^  and  of 
late  the  Fens  nigh  Cambridge  have  been  adjudicated  drained,  and 
so  are  probable  to  continue. 

Very  great  was  the  ingenuity,  industry,  (the  eyes  and  hands  of 
all  grand  designs,)  and  expense  in  this  action.  For  the  river  Ouse, 
formerly  lazily  loitering  in  its  idle  intercourses  with  other  rivers,  is^ 
now  sent  the  nearest  way  (through  a  passage  cut  by  admirable  art) 
to  do  its  errand  to  the  German  Ocean. 

I  confess,  Cambridge  ever  looked  on  the  draining  of  the  Fens 
with  a  jealous  eye,  as  a  project  like  to  prove  prejudicial  unto  them. 
And  within  my  memory,  an  eminent  preacher  made  a  smart 
sermon  before  the  Judges  of  the  Assizes  on  this  text:  "Let 
judgment  run  down  as  waters,  and  righteousness  as  a  mighty 
stream,"  Amos  v.  24 ;  wherein  Bfe  had  many  tart  reflections  on  the 
draining  of  the  Fens,  inciting  the  Judges  to  be  tender  of  the  Uni- 
versity so  much  concerned  therein.  But,  it  seems,  Cambridge  was 
then  more  frighted  than  since  it  hath  been  hurt,  now  the  project  is 
eflfected. 

The  chiefest  complaint  I  hear  of  is  this, — that  the  country  there- 
about is  now  subject  to  a  new  drowning,  even  to  a  deluge  and  inun- 
dation of  plenty ;  all  commodities  being  grown  so  cheap  therem. 
So  hard  it  is  to  please  froward  spirits,  either  full  or  fasting. 

Here  even  a  serious  body  cannot  but  smile  at  their  conceit,  who 
so  confidently  have  reported  and  believed,  that  the  late  drought, 


Digiti 


zedbyLiOOgle 


2lHEXRryi.  tmiVEHSmr  OF  CAMBBIOQB.  lOg 

these  last  three  years,  proceeded  from  the  drainioff  of  iLe  Fens. 
As  if  the  sun,  arising  in  those  eastern  counties,  were  offended  that 
he  was  disappointed  of  his  moming'*s  draught,  (which  he  formerly 
Iiad  out  of  the  Fen%)  and  now  wanteth  vapours,  the  materials  of 
lain,  whereof  those  moist  grounds  afforded  him  plenty  before. 

A  jejune  and  narrow  conceit :  as  if  the  cockle-shell  of  Fen-waters 
were  considerable  to  quench  the  thirst  of  the  sun,  who  hath  the 
German  Ocean  to  carouse  in  at  pleasure.  Besides,  their  fond  fiincy 
isconfiited  by  the  wetness  of  this  last  summer,  affording  rain  enough, 
and  too  much. 

As  Cambridgeshire  hath  gotten  more  earth,  so  hath  it  gained 
ktter  air,  by  the  draining  of  Uie  Fens.  And  Cambridge  itself  may 
soon  be  sensible  of  this  perfective  alteration.  Indeed,  Athens,  the 
staple  of  ancient  learning,  was  seated  in  a  morass,  or  fenny  place, 
(and  so  Pisa,  an  academy  in  Italy,)  and  the  grossness  of  the  air  is. 
conceived,  by  some,  to  quicken  their  wits  and  strengthen  their  me* 
tnories.  However,  a  pure  air,  in  all  impartial  judgments,  is  to  be 
preferred  for  students  to  reside  in« 

11—14.  Kinff  Henry  faundeth  a  tmaU  CoUege^  and  WiBtam 
Bingham  another.  Both  united  and  enlarged  into  King'e 
CoUege.     The  admirable  Chapel.    A.D.  1442,  3. 

Henry  YI.  a  pious  and  mild  prince,  (one  of  a  better  soul  than 
^irit,)  erected  a  small  College  for  a  Rector  and  twelve  Scholars  in 
and  about  the  places  where  Augustine^s  Hostel,  God^s  House,  and 
tie  church  of  St.  Nicholas,  formerly  stood  ;*  being  one  motive  that 
lie  dedicated  this  his  foundation  to  the  honour  of  St.  Nicholas,  on 
vlose  day,  February  12th,  also  he  was  bom. 

William  Bingham,  rector  of  St.  John  Zachary^  in  London, 
sensible  of  the  great  want  of  gmmmarians  in  England  in  that  age, 
foonded  a  Uttle  Hostel,  (contiguous  to  king  Henry's  College,)  to 
^  governed  by  a  Proctor ;  and  twenty-five  Scholars,  all  to  be 
(not  boys,  learning  tiie  rules — ^but)  men  studying  the  criticisms — 
®f  grammar  i-f  and  he  is  no  grammarian,  who  knoweth  not  ^a»i- 
"^cm  (in  that  age  especially)  to  be  an  essential  member  of  an 
University. 

But,  the  year  after,  Bingham's  small  Hostel  was  swallowed  up  in 
^te  ting's  foundation,  (not  as  Ahab's  palace  ate  up  Naboth's  vine- 
ywd,  but)  by  the  full  and  ftee  consent  of  the  aforesaid  Bingham, 
Rendering  it  up,  July  10th,  into  the  hands  of  ihe  king,  for  the 
unproving  and  perfecting  thereof.  Whereupon  the  king,  uniting 
^i)d  enlarging  them  both  with  the  addition  of  the  church  of  St. 
Jokn  Zachary,  then  belonging  to  Trinity  Hall,  (in  lieu  whereof,  he 

•  Caito,  HUt,  Cant,  lib.  i.  pp.  6,  7.  t  /*«,  ibidem. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


HQ  HISTO&Y  OF  THE  'A.D.U43. 

Yfho  would  do  hurt  to  none,  good  to  all,  gave  to  that  Hall  the 
patronage  of  St.  Edward's  in  Cambridge,)  founded  one  fair  Col- 
lege, for  one  Provost,  seventy  Fellows  and  Scholars,  ihiee  Chap- 
lains, six  Clerks,  sixteen  Choristers,  and  a  Master  over  them,  six- 
teen Officers  of  the  foundation,  besides  twelve  Servitors  to  the  senior 
Fellows,  and  six  poor  Scholars ;  amounting  in  all  to  a  hundred  and 
forty. 

The  chapel  in  this  Qollege  is  one  of  the  rarest  febrics  in  Christ- 
endom, wherein  the  stone-woric,  wood-work,  and  glass-work  contend 
which  most  deserve  admiration.  Yet  the  first  generally  carrieth 
away  the  credit,  (as  being  a  stone-henge  indeed,)  so  geometrically 
contrived,  that  voluminous  stones  mutually  support  themselves  in 
the  arched  roof,  as  if  art  had  made  them  to  foigct  nature,  and 
weaned  them  from  their  fondness  to  descend  to  their  centre.  And 
yet,  though  there  be  so  much  of  Minerva,  there  is  nothing  of 
Arachne  in  this  building :  I  mean,  not  a  spider  appearing,  or  cob- 
web to  be  seen  on  the  (Irish-wood  or  cedar)  beams  thereof.  No 
wonder,  then,  if  this  chapel,  so  rare  a  structure,  was  the  work  of 
three  succeeding  kings; — Henry  VI.  who  founded — ^VII.  who 
fathered— VIII.  who  finished— it.  The  whole  College  was  intended 
[to  be]  conformable  to  the  chapel ;  but  the  untimely  death  (or 
rather  deposing)  of  king  Henry  VI.  hindered  the  same.  Thus 
foundations  partake  of  their  founder's  interest,  and  flourish  or  fade 
together.  Yea,  that  mean  Quadrant  (now  almost  all  the  College 
extant  at  this  day)  was  at  first  designed  only  for  the  Choristers. 

15.  A  Catalogue  of  King's  College  Worthies. 

But  the  honour  of  Athens  lieth  not  in  her  walls,  but  in  th( 
worth  of  her  citizens.  BuOding  may  give  lustre,  but  learning  life 
to  a  College ;  wherein  we  congratulate  the  happiness  of  this  founda 
tion.  Indeed,  no  College  can  continue  in  a  constant  level  of  learn 
ing,  but  will  have  its  alternate  depressions  and  elevations :  but  n 
this  we  may  observe  a  good  tenor  of  able  men  in  all  Faculties,  a 
indeed  a  good  artist  is  left-handed  to  no  profiession.  See  here  thei 
catalogue,  wherein  such  persons  reducible  to  two  or  more  columns 
to  avoid  repetition,  are  entered  in  that  capacity  wherein  I  conceiv 
them  to  be  most  eminent. 

Peovosts.— 1.  William  Millington,  elected,  amM  1443,  fror 
Clare  Hall,  whither,  after  three  years,  he  was  remanded,  for  his  fac 
tious  endeavouring  to  prefer  his  countrymen  of  Yorkshire.  2.  Joh 
Chedworth,  who  continued  six  years.  3.  Richard  Woodlark,  D.I 
founder  of  Catherine  Hall.  4.  Walter  Field,  D.D.  elected  147^ 
contmued  twenty  years.  5.  John  Dogget,  D.C.L.  Chancellor  ( 
Sarum,  elected  1489,  and  remained  so  two  years.    6.  John  Argei 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


21  Hjorsr  IT.  UNIVBB8ITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  m 

tine,  D.P*  and  D.  He  gave  the  College  a  fiur  bason  and  ewer  of 
silver,  with  other  plate,  yet  in  the  use  and  cnstody  of  the  Provost. 
Elected  1501,  and  remained  six  years.  7*  Richard  Hatton,  D.C.L. 
elected  1507,  continued  two  years.  8.  Robert  Hacomblen,  D.D. 
elected  1509,  and  remained  nineteen  years.  He  wrote  comments 
on  Aristotle's  Ethics.  9.  Edward  Fox,  afterwaid  bbhop  of  Heie« 
ford,  elected  1528,  and  continued  ten  years.  10.  Geofge  Day, 
afterward  bishop  of  Chichester,  elected  1538,  and  continued  ten 
yea28.  11.  Sir  John  Cheke,  (of  St.  John's,  in  Cambridge,)  chosen 
by  mandate,  1548,  sate  fi?e  years.  12.  Richard  Atkinson,  D.D. 
elected  1553^  so  remained  three  years.  13.  Robert  Brassey, 
chosen  1556,  and  so  remained  two  years.  14.  Philip  Barker, 
chosen  1558,  sate  twelve  years.  15.  Roger  Ooad,  a  grave  and 
reverend  divine,  of  whom  much  hereafter;  elected  1570,  and 
remiuned  Pro?ost  forty  years.  He  gave  the  rectfvy  of  Milton  in 
Cambridgeshire  to  the  CoU^e.  16.  Fog  Newton,  D.D.  chosen 
1610,,  sate  two  yeais.  17.  William  Smith,  chosen  1612,  two 
years.     18.  Samuel  Collins,  chosen  1615 ;  of  whom  hereafter. 

BxN£FACTOBs.— 1.  William  Towne,  Fellow,  gave  four  pounds  . 
for  ever,  for  a  salary  to  a  minister,  2.  John  Plentith,  Fellow,  gave 
one  hundred  and  sixty  marks.  3.  William  Wiche,  Fellow,  gave 
many  of  his  books  to,  &c«  4.  William  Skelton,  D.P.  Fellow, 
gave  all  his  books  to  the  library.  5.  Nicholas  West,  when  Scholar 
of  this  House,  so  desperately  turbulent,  that,  discontented  with  the 
loss  of  the  Proctorship,  he  endeavoured  to  fire  the  Provost's  lodg* 
ings  ;  and,  having  stolen  some  silver  spoons,  departed  the  College. 
Afterward  he  became  a  new  man,  D.D.  and  bishop  of  Ely ;  who, 
to  expiate  his  former  &ults,  gave  many  rich  gifts  and  plate  to  the 
College,  and  built  part  of  the  Provost's  lodgings.  6.  William 
Scales,  Fellow,  D.D.  gave  a  salary,  known  by  his  name  at  this  day. 
7.  Dr.  Cowel  gave  plate  and  divers  books  to  the  College.  8.  WU« 
liam  Smith,  ProTOst,  gave  a  hundred  pounds'*  worth  of  books,  and  a 
&ir  salt  of  forty  pounds'  price,  with  other  legacies.  9.  Adam  Rob* 
bins,  Richard  Day,  and  William  Henshaw,  late  Fellows,  qontri- 
buted  their  sevend  bene&ctions.  10.  Thomas  Weaver,  late 
Fellow,  wainscoted  both  sides  of  the  choir  in  a  decent  manner. 

Bishops. — 1.  Nicholas  Cloose,  bishop  of  Carlisle,  and  of  Lich- 
field, 1451.  2.  John  Chedworth,  bishop  of  Lincohi,  1452.  3. 
Thomas  Rotherham,  bishop  of  Rochester  first,  then  York,  1467* 

4.  Oliver  King,  bishop  of  Exeter,  then  Bath  and  Wells,  1402. 

5.  Geoffrey  Blith,  1503,  bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield.  6. 
Nicholad  West,  1515,  bishop  of  Ely.  7.  Nicholas  Hawkins, 
1533,  nominated  bishop  of  Ely,  but  died  before  his  consecrationi 
In  time  of  famine,  he  sold  all  his  plate  and  goods  to  relieve  the 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


112  filSTORT  OP  THK  a.d.  144S. 

poor  of  Ely,  vhere  he  ^ras  served  himself  in  wooden  dishes  and 
earthen  pots.  8.  Thomas  Goodrich,  1534,  bishop  of  Ely.  9. 
Edward  Fox,  1536,  bishop  of  Herefoid.  10.  Robert  Aldrich, 
1537»  bishop  of  Carlisle.  Erasmus  styleth  him,  when  young, 
BlanddB  doqumtice  juvenem.  11.  Geoi^  Day,  1543,  bishop  of 
Chichester.  12.  John  Poinet,  1550,  bishop  of  Rochester,  then 
Winchester.  13.  Richard  Cox,  1559,  bishop  of  Ely,  Scholar  of 
this  House.  14.  fkimund  Owest,  1559,  bishop  of  Rochester,  then 
Sarum.  15.  William  Alley,  1560,  bishop  of  Exeter.  16.  Wil- 
liam  Wickham,  1595,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  then  Winchester.  17. 
Thomas  Ram,  bishop  of  Ferns  in  Ireland.  18.  Richard  Moun- 
tague,  1628,  bishop  of  Chichester,  then  Norwich.  19.  John 
Long,  bishop  of  Armagh,  some  thirty  years  since ;  not  finding  the 
date  of  his  consecration.  20.  William  *  Murray,  Conduct  of  this 
College,  bishop  of  Landaff,  (mno  1627. 

Statesmen. — ^1.  W.  Hatliffe,  D.D.  Secretary  to  king  Edward 
IV.  2.  James  Denton,  D.C.L.  Chancellor  to  the  Lady  Mary, 
Dowager  of  France,  Dean  of  Lichfield,  and  Lord  President  oC 
Wales.  3.  William  Conisby  became  a  Student  of  the  common 
law,  an&  a  learned  Judge.  4.  Edward  Hall,  afterward  a  Judge, 
and  a  useful  historian.  5.  Walter  Haddon,  Master  of  the  Requests 
to  queen  Elizabeth.  6.  Ralph  Colfield,  Clerk  of  the  Council  in 
Wales  to  king  Edward  VI.  He  discovered  the  cheating  of  dicers. 
7.  Thomas  Wilson,  principal  Secretary  to  queen  Elizabeth.  8. 
Oiles  Fletcher,  Ambassador  for  queen  Elizabeth  into  Russia,  Com- 
missioner into  Scotland,  Germany,  and  the  Low  Countries.  9.  Tho- 
mas Ridley,  Doctor  of  Law,  Master  of  the  Chancery,  knight,  and 
Vicar-general.  10.  John  Osborne,  Remembrancer  to  the  Treasurer. 
He  never  took  fee  of  any  clergyman.  11.  Joseph  Jesop,  Secretary 
to  Secretary  Walsingham.  12.  Sir  Albert  Morton,  principal  Secre- 
tary to  king  James.  All  the  former  weie  of  the  foundation.  13. 
Sir  Francis  Walsingham,  principal  Secretary  of  State,  was  Fellow- 
Commoner  of  this  House,  to  which  he  gave  the  king  of  Spain's 
Bible. 

Leasxed  Weitebs. — ^1,  2.  Whereas  Thomas  Stade  and 
William  Sutton,  (master,  and  his  scholar,  both  excellent  astrolo- 
gers,) are  by  Pitzseus  -f  assigned  to  flourish  ,  in  this  College  some 
years  before  the  same  was  founded,  his  prolepsis  is  thus  to  be 
understood,— that  they  studied  in  those  old  Hostels  out  of  which 
King''s  College  was  afterwards  erected.  3.  Richard  Crooke,  Orator 
and  Oreek  Professor.  4.  Osmund  Lake,  a  profound  scholar.  ^* 
John  Cowell,  Doctor  of  Civil  Law,  eminent  to  all  posterity  for  his 
V Interpreter''  and  *' Institutions."     6.  Thomas  Thomas,  known 

*  In  Le  Neve  his  name  is  John.— Edit.  t  r»*.  anno  1440. 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


si  HENftr  Ti.  UNIVEBSITT  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  II3 

b J  the  '<  DktwDBXj  ^cShiB  setting  forth*  7.  Sir  William  Temple, 
Piovoei  of  Trinity  College  in  Dublin,  wrote  a  *^  Commeiit  on 
Ramiis.^  8.  Anthony  Wotton,  first  ProfeMw  of  Divinity  in 
Gresham  College.  9.  Samuel  Hieron,  a  powerful  preacher  in  his 
printed  works.  10.  William  Sclater,  D.D.  a  most  jadicioua 
divine.  11.  Elnathan  Par,  an  industrious  writer.  12.  Edward 
Kellet,  D.D.  a  profound  scholar.  13.  Dr.  Thomas  Gk)ad,  of 
whom  laigely  hereafter.  14.  Richard  Mountague,  a  great  anti- 
quary, bishop  of  Norwich.  15.  Dr.  William  Gouge,  late  of  Black* 
friars. 

Ma&tyks  and  Confessoks. — ^1.  John  Frith,*  first  a  Student 
in  this  College,  (but  not  of  the  foundation,)  burnt  for  the  testimony 
of  the  truth,  antto  1533.  2.  Laurence  Saunders  suffered  for  the 
same,  anfW  1555.  3.  Robert  Glover,  burnt  at  Corentry  for  religion. 
4.  John  HuUier,  martyred  on  Jesus-Green  in  Cambridge.  5.  Ro- 
bert Columbel:  he  went  away  Fellow,  not  daring  to  stay,  because 
Mr.  Stokis  (the  beadle)  had  espied  a  Latin  Testament  in  his  hand. 
6.  Thomas  Whitehead,  Scholar,  and  afterward  pantler  of  the  College. 
When  Liuther^s  books  were  sought  to  be  burnt,  he  kept  them  close 
for  better  times. 

Beksfices  in  the  Collbge  Gift. — ^1.  Fordingbridge  vicar- 
age in  the  diocess  of  Winchester,  valued  at  ^30.  2i.  2d.  in  the 
king^s  book.  2.  Stour  rectoiy,  in  the  diocess  of  Bristol,  valued  at 
£16.  4».  9d.  3.  Kingston  rectory,  in  the  diocess  of  Ely,  valued 
at  d£*ll.  14b8.  Sid.  4.  Ringwood  vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of 
Winchester,  valued  at  £75.  5s.  5d.  5.  Toft  Monachorum  rec- 
tory, in  the  diocess  of  Norwich,  valued  at  £8.  6.  Leisingham 
vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of  Norwich,  valued  at  £6.  7.  Harsted. 
rectory,  in  the  diocess  of  Norwich,  valued  at  £6. 10^.  8.  West 
Rudham  vicarage,  tnH;he  diocess  of  Norwich,  valued  at  £7'  6s.  8d. 

9.  Prestcott  ricarage,  in  the  diocess  of  Chester,  valued  at  £2i.  9s. 

10.  Wotton  Wawen  vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of  Coventry  and  Lich- 
field, valued  at  .£^11.  9s.  7d.  11.  Dowton  [Dunton]  Wallat  rec- 
tory, in  the  diocess  of  London,  valued  at  ^16. 

Behold  here  the  firuitlulness  of  one  vineyard,  a  single  College ! 
and  yet  we  have  only  gathered  the  top  gropes,  such  as  were  ripest 
in  parts,  and  highest  in  preferment.  How  many  more  grew  on  the 
under-boughs,  which  w^e  si^rviceable  in  church  and  state !  Not  to 
speak  of  many  eminent  persons  8till  surviving,  amongst  whom  Mr. 
William  Oughtred,  beneficed  at  A  Ibury  in  Surrey,  prince  of  the 
math^naticians  in  our  age;  whose  modesty  will  be  better  pleased 
with  my  praying  for  them  than  praising  of  them. 

•  Caius  ei  BALiEus,  CerUttria  8,  page  666. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


124  HISTORY  OF  THS  A,t>.  1449^ 

16 — ^18.  Why  90  few  have  been  Benefadors  to  this  Home.  The 
insttwnental  Athancers  o/eo  worthy  a  Work.  Dr.  Sommemt 
said  to  be  ungraJtefvUy  wed  by  Ccmitridge. 

Wonder  not,  reader,  that  benefactors  are  so  few,  and  bepefection 
so  small,  to  this,  royal  foundation ;  caused,  partly,  from  the  com-' 
pleteness  thereof  at  its  first  erection  ;  partly,  from  men''s  modesty, 
that  their  meanness  might  not  mingle  itself  with  princely  magnifi- 
cence. Solomon  saith,  ^^  What  can  the  man  do  that  cometh  after 
the  king  ?  '^  Eccles.  ii.  12.  It  is  petty  presumption  to  make  addi- 
tion to  kings^  works,  and  to  hold  benefiiction  in  coparcenaiy  with 
them. 

We  read  in  John  Rouse,  how  king  Henry  V.  had  a  design  to 
build  a  College  in  the  Castle  of  Oxford ;  the  intended  model  whereof, 
with  the  endowments  to  the  same,  he  affirmeth  himself  to  have  seen ; 
but,  prevented  by  death,  his  son  Henry  performed  his  fetber's  will, 
(as  to  his  general  end  of  advancing  learning  and  religion,)  though 
exchanging. the  place  from  Oxford  to  Cambridge.  We  read  also  in 
the  Oxford  antiquary,*  how  Henry  Beaufort,  that  pompous  prelate 
and  bishop  of  Winchester,  gave  two  thousand  pounds  to  Henry  VI. 
for  the  advancing  of  this  College ;  and  how  John  Sommerset, 
Doctpr  of  Physic  to  king  Henry  VI.  Sophister  first  in  Oxford, 
but  afterwards  graduated  iri  Cambridge,  and  twice  Proctor  thereof, 
(though  not  expressed  in  our  Cambridge-catalogue,  so  imperfect  is 
it,)  was  very  active  with  his  persuasions  to  king  Henry,  and  con- 
curred much,  instrumentally,  to  the  foundation  of  this  College. 

He  proceedeth  to  tell  us,  how  the  same  Sommerset,  when  aged, 
fell  into  want  and  disgrace ;  and,  coming  to  Cambridge  for  succour 
and  support,  found  not  entertainment  proportionable  to  his  deserts. 
Whereupon  he  publicly  complained  thereof,  in  eighty  satirical 
versesj-f  thus  beginning  :— 

Quid  tibi,  Cemtabriga,  dudum  duleisMma,/eei  ? 
Vf/itvm  dwertw,  Ok  !  mihi  dura  nimis. 

For  mine  own  part,  I  bate  ingratitude,  be  it  in  mine  own  mother; 
feiit  dare  not  here  condemn  her,  because  ignorant  of  the  cause  of 
Sommersefs  poverty.  Probably  it  might  relate  to  the  difference  of 
the  crown  and  Lancaster  interest ;  so  that,  in  those  dangerous  days, 
Cambridge's  charity  could  not  consist  with  her  safety,  not  daring  to 
relieve  him  for  fear  of  damnifying  herself. 

•  Brian  Twyne,  jintiq,  Acad.  Own.  page  318.  f  Extant  in  GuiL.  Wobcbstb. 

and  cited  by  Brian  Twyne,  page  313. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


31  HfiNft%  ?i.  UNIVERSITT  OF  CAMBBIDQS.  115 

19.  King  Edward  IV.  a  MaUfaOar  to  this  College. 

How  ticklish  those  dajrs  were,  and  with  how  eyil  an  eye  this 
foundation,  from  the  line  of  Lancaster,  was  looked  upon  by  the 
House  of  York,  is  too  plain  in  the  practice  of  king  Edward  IV« 
one  whose  love  to  learning  and  religion  were  much  alike ;  who  at 
once  took  away  firom  King''s  College  a  thousand  pounds  [of]  land 
a-year,  amongst  which  the  fee-&rm  of  the  manors  of  Chesterton  and 
Cambridge.  Whereupon  no  fewer  than  forty  of  the  Fellows  and 
Scholars,  besides  Conducts,  Clerks,  Choristers,  and  other  College- 
officers,  were  in  one  day  forced  to  depart  the  House,  for  want  of 
maintenance.*  Indeed  I  have  read,  that  king  Edward  afterwards 
restored  five  hundred  marks  of  yearly  revenue,  on  condition  they 
should  acknowledge  him  for  their  founder,  and  write  all  their  deeds 
in  his  name ;  which,  perchance  for  the  present,  they  were  contente4 
to  perform.  However,  his  restitution  was  nothing  adequate  to  the 
injury  offered  this  foundation,  insomuqh  that  Leland  complains,- 
Grawtam  euam  heme  jaeturam  semper  sensuram,  '^  that  his  Cam- 
bridge will  for  ever  be  sensible  of  this  loss.^^ 

20,  21.  An  old  Debt  weUpaid.    The  Arms  of  King's  CoUege. 

One  tells  us,  that,i*  as  King^^s  College  was  first  furnished  fiiom 
Eaton,  so  Eaton  was  first  planted  from  Winchester  School,  whence 
Henry  YI.  fetched  five  Fellows,  and  thirty-five  eminent  Scholars, 
to  fiirnish  his  first  foundation.  But  let  our  aunt  know,  that  this 
debt  hath  been  honestly  satisfied,  with  plentiful  considerotion  for 
the  forbearance  thereof.  For  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  1524,  when 
Robert  Norton,  Master  of  Pembroke  Hall,  was  employed  by  cardi- 
nal Wolsey  to  invite  Cambridge-men  (some  full  blown  in  learning, 
others  but  in  the  bud,  and  dawning  of  their  pregnancy)  to  plant  his 
foundation  at  Christ-church,  King^^s  College  afforded  them  many  emi- 
nent scholars,  then  removed  thither :  amongst  whom  were  Richard 
Cox,  afterwards  schoolmaster  to  king  Edward  YI.  John  Frith,  after- 
ward martyred  for  the  truth ;  John  Frier,  a  &mous  physician  of  that 
age ;  Henry  Sumptner,J  who,  at  Christ-church  for  his  religion  being 
hardly  used,  died  soon  after ;  with  many  more  eminent  persons, 
who  hereafter,  God  willing,  shall  be  observed.§  Thus  Christ* 
church  in  Oxford  was  first  a  Cambridge  colony.  Be  this  remem- 
bered, partly,  that  Cambridge  may  continue  her  original  title  to 
such  worthy  men,  and  partly,  to  evidence  her  return  to  her  sister  of 

*  Caius,  Hut,  uicad.  Cant,  page  68.  t  Brian  Twyns,  jintiq.  MA^  Oxtm, 

page  317.  X  Hatcher  ns.  of  King's  College,  anno  1618.  ^  Vide 

infrAy  anno  1524. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


116  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1443. 

what  fonnerly  she  had  borrowed.  Otherwise,  it  matters  not  on 
which  of  the  two  branches  learned  men  do  grow,  seeing  all  spring 
from  one  and  the  same  root  of  the  English  nation. 

I  have  done  with  this  foundation,  when  I  have  told  the  reader, 
that  king  Henry  VI.  under  his  Great  Sealj  by  Act  of  Parliament, 
confirmed  a  coat  of  arms  to  this  College,  bearing  in  chief  a  flower  of 
Prance,  and  a  lion  of  England,  that  it  may  appear  to  be  the  work 
of  a  king.  For  my  instructions  herein  I  must  direct  my  thankful- 
ness partly  to  the  memory  of  Mr.  Thomas  Hatcher,  who  some 
seventy  years  since  collected  an  exact  catalogue  of  the  Scholars, 
Fellows,  and  Provosts  of  this  House ;  partly  to  Mr.  Thomas  Page, 
of  this  House,  and  Vice-Orator  of  Cambridge,  who,  as  he  went  over 
beyond  the  seas  the  credit  of  his  College  and  this  University;  so, 
God  lending  him  life,  after  his  accomplishment  in  his  travels,  is 
likely  to  return  one  of  the  honours  of  our  country. 

22^23.  A  strange  Speech  (pretended)  of  King  Hmry  VI. ;  eon- 
nderinff  then  Cambridffe  eqttal  with  Oxford  in  Nrnnber  of 
CoUeges, 

My  pen  was  now  leaving  King's  College,  when  it  is  plucked  bock 
again  by  the  feathers  thereof  casually  lighting  on  the  following  pas- 
sage :  That  when  William  Wainefleet,  bishop  of  Winchester, 
(afterwards  founder  of  Magdalen  College,*  )  persuaded  king  Henry 
VI.  to  erect  some  monument  for  learning  in  Oxford,  the  king 
returned,  Imd  poii'As  Cantabrigicey  itt  Sum  (si  fieri  possit)  in 
Anglid  Aeademias  habecm.  "  Yea,  rather,''  said  he,  "  at  Cam- 
bridge, ihat  (if  it  be  possible)  I  may  have  two  Universities  in 
England :"  as  if  Cambridge  were  not  reputed  one  before  the  found- 
ing of  King's  College  therein. 

Aa  imptobable  passage,  which  filled  me  with  wonder:  for, 
akhougK  none  beheld  king  Henry  as  a  profound  person  to  utter 
onwles,  all  acknowledge  him  of  ability  to  express  himself  in  propor- 
tion to  hnith ;  who  could  not  be  ignorant,  that  Cambridge  had 
been  an  University  many  hundreds  of  years  before  these  words 
were  pretended  to  be  spoken,  and  vieiiig  endowed  Colleges  (un- 
endowed Halls  coming  not  under  this  colisideration)  with  Oxford 
itself,  as  by  the  ensuing  parallel  wili  appear  :-^ 

Il9   CaMBBIPGB.  IlT   OXFOBD. 

1.  Peter  House.  1.  Umtersity  College. 

2.  Michael  House.  2.  Merton  College. 

3.  Clare  Hall.  3.  Balliol  College. 

•  In  Oxford.    See  "  Church  History,"  vol,  i.  page  615.— EWT» 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


SlHiHiTVi.  UNIVEBSITY  OF  CAHBRIDGB.  ^  117 

In  Cambridge.  In  Oxford. 

4.  King's  HalL  4.  Exeter  College 

5.  Pembioke  HrU.  5.  Oriel  CoUege. 

6.  Bene't  College.  6.  Queen's  College. 

7.  Trinity  HaH.  7.  New  College. 
a  OoiiTille  HalL  8.  Lineobi  College. 

All  these  Houses  were  extant  in  Cambridge  before  tlie  reign  of 
King  Henry  V I.  equalling  those  in  Oxford  for  nuinber :  All  Souk 
therein  not  being  fiilly  finished ;  (and  King's  College  being  an 
embryo,  whilst  All  Souls  was  but  an  infimt ;)  which  plainly  proyeth 
Cambridge  &  most  flourishing  University  bef<»e  the  reign  of  king 
Henry  VI. 

24 — 26.    7%0  Speech  avouched  by  no  Historian.    A  memorable 
Tradiiion^  and  a  neceeeary  Condneien. 

This  made  me  consider  with  myself  what  authentical  authors  had 
attested  the  king's  words  aforesaid  finding  it  fixtt  printed  by  Brian 
Twyne,  Oxford  Antiquary,  and  afterwards  by  Dr.  Heylyn,  a  mem* 
ber  of  that  University ;  but  neither  relating  to  any  author  by  quota* 
tion,  in  their  editions  which  I  haVe  seen,  which,  in  a  matter  of  such 
moment,  might  justly  have  been  expected.  During  these  my 
thoughts,  the  following  passages  eame  very  seasonably  to  reconcile 
what  to  me  seemed  a  contradiction  :— 

Mr.  Hubbard,  my  much-esteemed  fidend,  late  Fellow  of  King's 
College,  and  Proctor  of  Cambridge,  told  me  that  Mr.  Barlow,  Pel* 
low  of  the  same  Houtte,  informed  him,  how  he  had  heard  (rom  Mr. 
Matthew  Bust,  the  worthy  schoolmaster  of  Eaton,  familiarly  con* 
versing  ii^ith  sir  Henry  Savill,  Warden  thereof,  that  the  said  sir 
Henry  Savill,  in  the  presence  of  sir  Isaac  Wake,  at  an  Oxford  Act, 
being  pleasant  at  the  entertainment  of  Cambridge-men,  in  mere 
merriment,  (to  try  whether  he  could  make  cousens  *  of  his  aunt's 
children  therein,)  devised  the  story,  far  from  any  love  of  falsehood, 
or  mischievous  intent  to  deceive  posterity,  but  only  for  present 
delight.  Which,  since,  it  seems,  (how  soon  are  great  men's  jests 
made  meaner  men's  earnests  t)  hath  passed  for  current,  some  con- 
firming, more  crediting,  none  opposing  it ;  and  from  going,  in 
-ftxA,  comes  now  to  fly,  in  print;  and,  if  not  timely  checked,  will 

*  I  have  suffered  this  word  to  retain  its  ancient  sj^eUing,  because  it  wiU  more  readily 
suggest  to  the  reader  Fuller's  pan,  as  conveyed  in  the  double  meaning.  As  cozener  is 
'*  a  deceiver,"  so  cozens  here  is  intended  l^th  for  "  persons  deceived,''  and  for  cou- 
iinsy  "  an  aunt's  children." — Bdit. 


Digitized  by 


L^oogie 


118  ^  BISTORT  OF  THB  .  -  a.d.  1446. 

in  the  next  a^  acquire  to  itself  a  peaceable  possession  of  a  general 
belief, 

I  confess  this  is  hearsay*  at  the  third  month,  losing  much  of  tbe 
lustre  thereof,  because  removed  three  descents  from  the  original. 
However,  I  conceive,  my  private  resolutions  just  and  equal,  who 
will  condemn  it  for  falsehood  in  that  very  minute  when  the  afore- 
said speech  of  king  Henry  VI.  shall  be  avouched  out  of  d  warrant- 
able author;  till  which  time,  I  shall  account  that  no  serious 
speech  of  a  king,  but  the  knighf  s  joculary  expression :  I  say  again, 
this  my  audim  from  my  friend  shall  prevaU  with  me  till  confoted 
with  the  inspexi  of  a  credible  historian  to  the  contrary.* 

27—29.    Th  Original  of  the  Schoob   in  Cambridge.    The  old 

.  Schools  a  mean  Structure.     The  several  Founders  of  the  modem 
Schools. 

Pass  we  now  from  King^s  College,  but  stay  still  on  King'^s-College 
ground,  (for  such  were  some  part  of  the  Schools,)  advanced  at  seve- 
ral times  by  sundry  benefactors.  First,  the  Schools  were  kept  in 
private  houses,  hired,  from  ten  years  to  ten  years,  by  the  University 
for  that  purpose ;  during  which  term  they  might  be  diverted  to  no 
other  use.  Such  we  conceive  the  School  of  Tyrannus,  wherein  St. 
Paul  kept  his  disputation  ;  and  the  house  of  John  Ooldcom  (since 
enclosed  in  Caius  College)  served  the  University  a  long  time  in 
that  nature. 

Afterwards,  the  public  Schools  were  built  at  the  cost  of  the 
University,  in  or  near  the  place  where  now  they  stand.  But, 
alas  !  it  was  a  little  and  low  structure,  more  eminent  for  the 
learning  within,  than  the  building  without;  yet  every  whit  asf 
good,  as  anciently  the  Artists^  Schools  of  Padua,  kept  at  St.  Blass, 
or  as  the  Schools  in  Venice,  (near  the  steeple  of  St.  Mark,)  where 
Baptista  Egnatius,  some  hundred  years  since,  professed  the  liberal 
arts. 

Last  of  all,  the  present  Quadrant  of  the  Schools  was  erected  of 
brick  and  rough  stone,  in  fashion  as  it  standeth  at  this  day. 

First.  The  west  side^-f  (opposite  to  the  entrance,)  built  by  the 
University  charges,  on  ground  bought  of  BeneH  College ;  contain- 
ing, BENEATH,  the  Philosophy-  commonly  called  the  Bachelors'* 
Schools.     Above,  the  Physic-  and  Law-Schools. 

Secondly.  The  north  side,  (on  the  right  hand,)  finished  anno 
Domini  1400,  by  sir  William  Thorpe,  a  Lincolnshire  knight ;  con- 
taining, beneath,  the  Divinity-Schools.  Above,  the  Regent- 
iand  Non-Regent-Houses,  having  something  of  chapel  character  and 

•  This  matter  is  afterwards  more  fdUy  debated  in  <'  the  Appeal  of  Injured  Innocence," 
in  paragraph  06.— Edit.  f  Caics,  HUt,  CarU,  page  80. 


Digitized  by 


L^oogle 


^  BwtkfYi,  xrsiv^BSirr  of  CAMSftiDOE.  119 

fconseeraiion  in  them,  as  whoreiii  some  UiuveitKy  deTOtions  are 
perfonned.  - 

Thiidly.  Tie  mmik  tide,  (on  the  left  haod,)  baOt  hy  LMuranee 
Booth,  faishop  of  Daifaam,  Chancellor  of  the  University ;  *  bat  on 
Ihe  cost  of  graduates  and  others ;  contuning,  beneath,  the  Logic- 
or '  Sophister-Schools,  where  (in  term-time)  daily  Disputations, 
and  the  Bachelors'*  Commencement  is  k^t.  Above,  the  Greek 
Schools. 

Foorthly.  The  eoH  «ub,  (where  one  entereth  at  a  beautiful 
pordi,)  built  amu>  1476,  by  Rotherham,  archbishop  of  York ;  con- 
taining, BENEATH,  ou  the  right  hand,  a  Vestiary,  where  the  Doe^ 
tors  robe  themselves,  and  have  a  convenient  inspection  into  the 
DiviiBty^chodLs :  on  the  left  hand,  the  Consistory,  where  the 
Vice-Cbancellor  keepeth  his  courts.    Above,  a  fair  library. 

This  library  formerly  was  furnished  with  plenty  of  choice  books* 
partly  at  the  costs  of  the  aforesaid  archbishop  Rotherham,  partly  at 
the  diaiges  of  Cnthbert  Tonstall,  bishop  of  Durham,  bred  in  out 
University,  and  quietly  allowed  unto  us  by  bishop  Oodwin ;  though 
tome  since  -f  (on  what  unjust  pretence  I  know  not)  have  drawn  him 
unto  Balliol  College  in  Oxford.  But  these  books,  by  the  covetous^ 
ness  of  some  great  ones,  and  carelessness  of  the  library-&M0rs,  (for 
library-il^^f  I  cannot  call  them,)  are  for  the  most  part  imbezdedf 
to  the  great  loss  of  the  University,  and  learning  in  general. 

90.  Cambridge  Library  auffmewi^ 

At  tliis  day  the  library  (or  libraries^  shall  I  say  ?)  of  three  suc- 
cessive archbishops,  painful  Parker,  piaus  Grindall,  politic  Ban- 
croft, (on  the  miscarriage  of  Chelsea  College,  to  which  first  they 
were  bequeathed,)  are  bestowed  upon  Cambridge ;  and  are  beauti- 
fully shelved,  (at  the  costs,  as  I  am  informed,  of  sir  John  Woollas- 
ton,  alderman  of  London,)  so  that  our  library  will  now  move  the 
beam,  though  it  cannot  weigh  it  down,  to  even  the  scale  with 
Oxford.  As  for  the  Schools  themselves,  though  our  aunt  boasteth 
that  it  is  not  worthy  to  carry  the  books  after  Oxford  library  for  the 
statefulness  of  the  edifice ;  yet  sure  the  difference  is  more  in  the 
case  than  in  the  jewels  therein  contained. 

Joannes  Langton,  Chancellor.  He,  with  the  consent  of  the 
whole  University,  appoints  prayers  and  mass  for  Henry  VI.  a.d. 
1444. 

Nicholas  de  Kenton,  Chancellor ;  a  learned  writer,  1445. 

Joannes  de  Langton,  Chancellor.  He>  obtains  letters  patents  o^ 
the  king,  whereby  he  forgives  the  University  all  offences,  1446. 

-     •  ride  mfra,  anno  1466.  f  Brian  Twyne.  _^ 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


120  HISTOEYOFTHE  A.h.U4». 

r  Roberiufl  de  Aieouglie,  Doctor  of  Law,  Ghancellor*    He  gave 
to  the  Uniyeisitj  a  goblet  of  eight  ounces.    Guliehims .  BiDgbam, 

31--d3.  Queen's  College  founded  by  Queen  Margaret.  The  Ith 
$Cfiptio»  on  the  first  Stone,  Queen  MizabetA  finished  what 
Queen  Margmet  began. 

Maigaret,  daughter  to  Renier,  tituled  '^  king  of  Sicily  ai^d  J^ii- 
salem/' wife  to  king  Hemj  VI.  founded  a  College  in  Gsmbiidge, 
sear,  if  not  in,  a  place  fonnerlj  called  Ooose-green,  dedicating  the 
same  to  her  name-sake,  St.  Maigaitet,  and  St.  Bernard,  commonly 
called  Queen^B  College.  Indeed,  aa  the  trophy  of  Miltiades  in 
Athens  would  not  sufibr  Themistocles  to  sleepi  so  this  queen, 
beholding  her  husband''s  bounty  in  building  King's  College,  was 
restless  in  herself  with  holy  emulation,  until  she  had  produced  some- 
thing of  the  like  nature.  A  strife  wherein  wivesy  without  hieack  of 
duty,  may  contend  with  their  husbands,— which  should  exceed  in 
pious  performances. 

Sir  John  Wenlock,  knight,  laid  the  first  stone  of  ibis  College  in 
the  east  end  and  south  side  of  the.  chapel,  in  the  name  of  queen 
Maigaret,  April  15th,  1448;  who  caused  this  inscription  to  be 
engraven  thereon :  Erit  Bomince  nosfyrce  reginas  Margareke  Domif 
nm  in  refugiumj  et  lapis  isie  in  signum :  *'  The  Lord  shall  be  foi 
a  refuge  to  the  lady  Margaret,  and  this  stone  for  a  sign.^  Indeed, 
poor  queen,  soon  after  she  needed  a  sanctuary  to  belter  heiself, 
when  beaten  in  battle,  and  the  aforesaid  (since  Lord)  Wenlock 
slain  at  Tewkesbury :  when,  no  doubt,  her  soul  retreated  to 
Divine  protection,  the  only  succour  left  unto  her ;  but  this  sad 
accident  obstructed  the  hopeful  proceeding  in  her  intended  foun- 
dation. *  i 

The  child  thus  "  come  to  the  birth,  there  was  no  strength  to 
bring  forth,^  had  not  the  skill  of  the  midwife  supplied  the  want  of 
strength  in  the  mother.     1  mean,  Andrew  Ducket,  for  forty  years  i 
first  Master  of  this  House,  formerly  a  friar,  rector  of  St.  Botolph's 
in  Cambridge,  Principal  of  Bernard^s  Hostel,  who  gathered  much ' 
money  from  well-disposed    people,   to    finish  this   College,  andj 
accounted  by  some,  (though  not  by  his  purse,)  by  his  prayers,  the 
founder  thereof  :^  a  good  and  discreet  man,  who,  with  no  sordid  buti 
prudential  compliance,  so  poised  himself  in  those  dangerous  times  j 
betwixt  the  successive  kings  of  Lancaster  and  York,  that  he  pro- ' 
cured  the  favour  of  both,  and  so  prevailed  with  queen  Elizabeth,  | 
wife  to  king  Edward  IV.  that  she  perfected  what  her  professed 
eneniy  had  begun:   a  good-natured  lady,  whose  estate  (whilst  AJ 
widow)  being   sequestered   for    the  delinquency  of  her    husband,! 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC  I 


17  8BMT  VI.  UNIVSBSRT  OF  CAMBRIDOE.  121 

(MnffifUhQii^  noi  ward$^  then  in  finhmi,)  ma&  her  more  meici- 
M  to  the  miseries  of  others. 

Maste&s.  -*  Andrew  Ducket.  Thomas  Wilkinson.  John 
Fisher.  Robert  Beakinshawe.  John  Jennings.  Thomas  Fomam. 
William  Frankland.  Simon  Heynes.  William  May.  William 
GJyime.  Thomas  Peacock.  William  May.  John  Stokys.  Wil- 
liam Chadderton.  Humfirey  Tyndall.  John  Darenant.  John 
Mansd.    Eidwaid  Martin«    Herbert  Palmer.    Thomas  Horton. 

Bbnx7actoes.«— Lady  Margaret  Boos,  lady  Jane  Ingletborpe, 
and  lady  Jane  Biurongh.  George  dnke  of  Clarence.  Cicely 
dudess  of  York.  Ridiard  doke  of  Gloucester  ;  lady  Anne,  his 
wife.  Edward  earl  of  Salisbury.  Maud  countess  of  Qdbrd.  Mai^ 
maduke  Lomley,  bishop  of  Lincoln.  Andrew  Ducket.  Hugh 
Trotter,  D.D.  John  Drewell.  William  Weld.  Sir  Thomas 
SmitL  Henry  Willshaw.  Dr.  Stokys.  John  Chetham.  Henry 
Hastings,  ead  of  Huntingdon.  John  Joslin.  George  Mountain. 
John  DaTenant. 

BisHora.-— 1.  John  Fisher,  bishop  of  Rochester,  and  Cardinal. 
2.  William  Glynne,  bishop  of  Bangor.  3.  William  Chadderton, 
bishop  of  Lincoln.  4.  William  Cotton,  bishop  of  Ex^tor.  5. 
John  Jegon,  bishop  of  Norwich.  6.  Richard  Milboume,  bidiop  of 
Carlisle.  7*  George  Mountain,  bishop  of  London.  8.  Robert 
TounesoD,  bishop  of  Salisbury,  d.  John  Davenant,  bishop  of 
Salisbury.  10.  William  Roberts,  bishop  of  Bangor.  11.  John 
Towers,  bishop  of  Peterborough, 

Lea&n&i)  WaiTKns.^-nl.  John  Fisher,  bishop  of  Rochester. 
2.  Desiderius  Erasmus.  8.  Henry  Bullock,  Mend  to  Erasmus, 
^alliiig  him  BowXhm.  4.  Dr.  Foreman ;  (having  is  as  good  as 
makmg  of  books ; )  he  concealed  and  preserved  Luther's  Works, 
sought  for  to  be  burnt.*  5,  Sir  Thomas  Smith.  6.  Thomas 
Brightman.  7*  John  Davenant.  8.  Stephen  Nettles,  in  his  defence 
of  tithes.  9.  John  Weever,  author  of  the  ^'  Funeral  Monuments.^' 
10.  Dr.  John  Preston. 

Livings  in  the  College  Gift. — St.  Botolph  Cantab,  vicar* 
age^dn  the  diocess  of  Ely,  valued  at  £2,  148^  4<J.  Eversden  Parva 
rectory,  in  the  diocess  of  Ely,  valued  at  £5.  2s.  4id.  Hoggington 
[Oakiogton]  vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of  Ely,  valued  at  £4. 13f. 
St.  Andrew  rectory,  [in  Sandon,  Essex,]  in  the  diocess  of  Canter- 
bury, [London,]  valued  at  «£^13.  &.  8d. 

So  that  at  this  present  therein  are  maintained  one  President,  nine- 
teen Fellows,  three-and-twehty  Scholars,  eight  Bible-Clerks,  three 
Lecturers  of  Hebrew,  Arithmetic,  and  Geometry,  besides  Officers  and 

•  M».  Fox's  "  Acts  and  Monuments/' 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


122  HISTORY  OP  TBB  '   A.to.  IM. 

Servants  of  the  foundation,  with  other  Students ;  amoantbg.  unto 
one  hundred  and  ninety. 

34—38.  Some  TnUh  in  much  Talk.  Giw  who*  is  tkit^  own. 
Two  Coaig/or  one  Body.  A  Benefousior-general  to  Leoflrning. 
An  ingenious  and  use/iil  Design.    A.D.  1448. 

•  Amongst  the  later  Masters  of  this  College,  Dr.  Humphrey  Tyn- 
dall,  dean  of  Ely,  must  not  be  forgotten ;  of  whom  there  passeth  an 
improbable  tradition,— -that  in  the  reign  of  queen  Elizabeth  he  was 
profibred  by  a. Protestant  party  in  Bohemia  to  be  made  king 
thereof;  which  he  refused,  alleging,  that  he  had  rather  be  queen 
Elizabeth's  subject,  than  a  foreign  prince.  I  know  full  well  that 
crown  is  elective.  I  know  also  that  for  some  hundreds  of  years  it 
has  been  fixed  to  the  Oerman  empire.  However^  because  no  smoke 
without  some  fire,  or  heat  at  least;  there  is  something  in  it,  more 
than  appears  to  every  eye.  True  it  is,  that  he  was  son  to  Sir 
Thomas  Tyndall,  of  Hockwold,  in  Norfolk ;  and  how  Bohemian 
blood  came  into  his  veins,  I  know  not.  Sure  I  am,  he  gave  the 
arms  of  Bohemia;  namely,  Jbfar^,  a  lion  with  a  forked  tail ;  Lwmi^ 
.crowned,  sol,  with  a  plume  of  ostrich-feathers  for  a  crest. 

The  catalogue  of  bene&ctors  to  this  College  presents  only  the 
principal,  not  all  in  that  kind,  who,  in  the  days  of  Dr.  Cains, 
(writing  eight  years  since,)  amounted  to  more  than  a  hundred  forty 
and  seven ;  much  increased  at  this  day.  Indeed,  na  House,  for  the 
quantity,  is  endowed  with  better  land  of  manors  and  fiirms,  and  less 
.of  impropriations  belonging  thereunto.  As  for  king  Richard  III. 
his  benefiu:tion  made  more  noise  than  brought  profit  therewith; 
who  conferred  on  this  College  all  the  large  and  honourable  patri- 
mony of  John  Vere,  the  thirteenth  earl  of  Oxford,  then  main- 
taining St.  MichaeFs  mount,  in  Cornwall,  against  him  ;  which  soon 
after  was  justly  resumed  by  king  Henry  VII.  and  restored  to  the 
right  owner  thereof:  the  College  no  whit  grieving  thereat,  as  sensi- 
ble no  endowment  can  be  comfortable  which  consists  not  with  equity 
and  honour. 

No  College  in  England  hath  such  exchange  of  coats  of  arms  as 
this  hath,  giving  sometimes  the  arms  of  Jerusalem,  (with  many 
others  quartered  therewith,)  assigned  by  queen  Margaret  their  first 
foundress.  It  giveth  also  another  distinct  coat ;  namely,  a  crosier, 
and  pastoral  stafip  aaltire^  piercing  through  a  boards  head  in  the 
midst  of  the  shield.*  This  I  humbly  conceive  bestowed  upon  them 
by  Richard  III.  (when  undertaking  the  patronage  of  this  founda- 
tion,) in  allusion  to  the  boar,  which  was  his  crest ;  and  wherein 
those  church-implements,   disposed    in  scUtire^  or  in  form  of  St. 

*  See  it  in  Speed's  Map  of  Cambridgeshire. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


33HX1IRT  VI.  tTNIVKSSmr  OF  CAMBRIDOS.  128 

A]idrew'*8  Cocoes,  m^ht  in  their  device  lelate  to  Andrew  Ducket,  8o 
much  meriting  of  this  foundation*  However,  at  this  day  the  College 
vayes  the  wearing  of  this  coat,  kying  it  op  in  her  wardrobe,  and 
makes  use  of  the  former  only. 

Sir  Thomas  Smith,  in  this  catalogue,  may  be  beheld  not  as  a 
Bene&ct<Hr  to  this  House  alone,  but  all  Colleges  of  literature  in 
England.  If  Obadiah  be  so  praised  to  all  posterity  for  feeding  a 
hundred  of  Qod^s  prophets,  ^^  fifty  in  one  cave,  and  fifty  in  another, 
with  bread  and  water,^  1  Kings  xviii.  4 ;  what  reward  shall  this 
worthy  Knight  receive,  who  for  ever  feeds  all  ^  the  sons  of  the  pro- 
phets,^ both  in  Cambridge  and  Oxford,  (members  of  any  Society,) 
with  rent-corn,  whidi  he  procured  by  statute  in  Parliament ;  which, 
in  due  time,  (God  willing,)  shall  fully  be  related* 

The  aforesaid  Knight  recurs  again  (who  cannot  too  often  be 
mentioned)  in  the  list  of  learned  writers ;  eminent  for  two  excellent 
works :  the  one,  ^^  Of  the  Commonwealth  of  England  ;^  the  other, 
^^  Of  a  more  Compendious  Way  of  Printing,^  as  which  would  defidk 
a  fifth  part  of  the  cost  in  paperand  ink,  besides  as  much  of  the  pains 
in  composing,  printing,  and  reading  of  books  only,  by  dischuging 
many  superfluous  letteis  in  spelling  and  accommodating  the  sounds 
of  long  and  short  vowels  (to  save  terminating  ss,  and  other  needless 
additions  of  consonants)  with  distinct  characters.  However,  this 
design  hath  not  hitherto  met  with  general  entertainment,  chiefly  on 
a  suspicion  that  this  modem  way  will  render  ancient  books  in  a  diort 
time  unreadable  to  any,  save  antiquaries ;  which  whether  a  just  or 
causeless  jealousy,  let  others  determine, 

39.  Eramus  a  Studeni  in  QuemU  College.    16  Edward  IV« 

A.D.  1460— 1475. 
Queen^s  College  accounteih  it  no  small  credit  thereunto,  that 
Erasmus  (who  no  doubt  might  have  picked  and  chosen  what  House 
he  pleased)  preferred  this  for  the  place  of  his  study,  for  some  years 
in  Cambridge ;  either  invited  thither  with  the  fame  of  the  learning 
and  love  of  his  friend,  bishop  Fisher,  then  Master  thereof;   or 
'  allured  with  the  situation  of  this  College,  so  near  the  river,  (as 
Rotterdam,  his  native  place,  to  the  sea,)   with  pleasant  walks 
thereabouts.    And  thus  I   take  my  fiurewell  of  this  foundation, 
wherein  I  had  my  education  for  the  first  eight  years  in  that  Univeiy 
sity,  desiring  Ood's  blessing  to  be  plentifully  poured  on  all  the 
members  thereof. 
Nicholas  Close,  Chancellor,  a,j>.  1450. 

William  Percy,  son  to  the  earl  of  Northumberland,  Chancellor, 
1451,  Mr.  Baker,  Proctor,  1452 ;  Mr.  Fleming,  and  Mr.  Hamp-^ 
den,  Proctors,  1453« 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


124  HISTORY  OF  THK  A.©.  147ff. 

.'  Heiiceforward  we  eksil  present  the  reader  with  an  enct  oitalogae 
of  all  the  Proctors  in  Cambridge.  Indeed,  we  could  bave  begun 
pur  list  of  them  a  hundred  years  before,  but  then  must  have  left 
many  blanks  for  some  years,  so  unperfect  (xa  intelligence,  and  so 
uncertain  the  records  ;  (meeting  therein  many  times  a  single  Proc- 
tor without  his  mate;)  and  therefore  I  conceived  time  enough, 
henceforward  to  date  the  ccnnpleted  and  continued  series  of  those 
public  officers. 

Henry  Boleyne  and  John  Ounthorpe,  Proctors,  a.d.  1454 
.  Henry  Boleyne  and  John  Bolton,  Proctors,  a.d.  1455. 
'  Laurence  Booth,  Chancellor;  John  Hurth  and  John  Bolton, 
Procters,  1456.  In  this  year,  a.d.  1457,  Laurence  Booth  (after- 
wards archbishop  of  York)  caused  a  collection  to  be  made  through 
the  whole  University.  1.  From  such  who  hired  Chairs  of  canon 
and  civil  law.  2.  From  those  who  broke  their  words  in  taking 
their  degrees.  3.  From  every  religious  person  a  proprietary  of 
goods,  ten  marks.*  4.  From  every  religions  man  of  the  Order  of 
Begging  Friars,  eight  marks.  5.  From  every  rich  parson,  a  third  part 
of  his  parsonage.  6.  From  bishops  and  prelates,  what  thej  pleased 
themselves  to  give.  With  these  moneys,  which  may  be  presumed 
to  amount  unto  a  round  sum,  he  built  the  south  side  of  th6  Schools, 
wherein  the  Sophisters  keep  their  ordinary  disputations. 

William  Wilfleet,  Chancellor ;  Robert  Steukin  and  John  Yot- 
iing.  Proctors,  a.d.  1458. 

.  Robert  Woodlark,  Chancellor;  Richard  Morgan  and  Oliver 
King,  Proctors,  1459. 

William  Skybye  and  WiUiam  Skelton,  Proctors,  1460. 

Richard  Scroop,  Chancellor ;  John  Bamaby  and  William  Gray- 
ham,  Proctors,  1461. 

.  Robert  Woodlark,  Chancellor ;  Thomas  Langton  and  John  Gray, 
Proctors,  1462. 

John  Booth,  Chancellor ;  John  Lindseyand  William  Rucshaw, 
Proctors,  1463. 

William  Wilfleet,  Chancellor ;  John  Bretton  and  Giles  Dent, 
Proctors,- 1464. 

William  Wyche  and  William  Langthon,  Proctors,  1465. 

John  Herrison,  [Chancellor,]  Doctor  of  Physic,-f-  this  year  set 
forth  a  short  Book  de  Fwndatoribm  UniversitcUis^  deducing  the 
same  from  king  Cantaber,  the  same  which  I  conceive  is  called  "  the 
Black-Book  ^'  at  this  day.     a.  d.  1465. 

William  Langthon  and  Christopher  Loftus,  Proctors,  1468. 

John  Day  and  William  Wood,  Proctors,  1467* 

•  Caius,  De  ^IntiquitaUs  Cant.  Acad,  page  81.  .     t  If>id,  page  44. 

Digitized  by  LjOOQIC  ' 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


■y.i:EW.^    OF     €©l.lLE(l5EtS    AT^'ID    IfilAILlS^ 


j'lah-  .y 


CHJ-tlST    COLLEGK. 


ST  JOHNS     COLLEGK. 


» ',*•*    .»>i    •*[      'O       i«t     iiil        ill    H'     Jti,  ,i  „ 
Ijt    U  :l    i'>t  tl   ,  »     ,."]     "I       III    m\  S^"r 


fir 


MA  CD  ALE  N    COLLEGE. 


THINITY     CuLLEiiE. 


^•:  M^A'N  1 1 K I  y  fe>»i.i A:t;  K .  ^  .  - 


SmXKY    SUSSEX  COLLEGE. 

uigitizea  oy  '^ 


lOOgle 


16  AwAES  IT.  UNIVJERSITT  OF  CAMBRIDOE.  125. 

Edwaid  story,  CSumcellor ;  Thomas  Wright  and  T^xomas  Lax- 
t<m,  Proctots,  1468. 

TbodBos  Botherham,  ChaneeDor  $  Thomas  Gosyn  and  Ambrose 
R^^fngtdn,  Proctors,  1489 ;  Thomas  Taylour  and  Thcnnas  Mands- 
kji'fhmieisy  1470 ;  J(>hn  Wells  and  Edward.  Hanson,  Proctors, 
14^;  John  Aigent  and  John  Ocley,  Proctors,  1472;  Ralph 
Sooysr  and  Ridiard  Tol^erham,  Pr^tois,  1473;  John  Tiotier  and 
Ridsrd  Snulh,  Prdctofc,  1474';  Thoikias  Bond  and  John  Radfbrd; 
Pioctofs,  1«S. 

rr  -  ,;4bi  Ja^  JR>«»dK«j^  MaS. 

Ricfaard  WoocBark  ^sras  bom  at  Wakerlej  in  Northiunberkoid,  as 
anaiEtbor  bath  affirmed.*  (Bat  finding  no  such  place  in  that  county, 
.a^j^  a  Wakeiiey,  nigh  Stanftnrd,  in  Northampton8hire,f  blame  mc 
'.'girdling  to  restore  my  native  shire  to  its  right,  and  th^ 
pc^  his  nativfty.)  This  Richard,  being  the  last  Foundationr 
r^and  Aixi  •  Provostof  King>  College,  purchased  four  tene- 
i^Qt»W  'i^Uriixedij  (over  agaixist.  the  late  Carmelites  then  newly 
Qsieen''8  College,)  and  founded  an  Hall  thereon  for.  one  Master^ 
jtfii  *Aaee  Felfows^  dedicating  it  to  St.  Katherine,  the  tirgin  and 
liMlyr?  (finee  atiginented  by  the  bounty  of  others. 

41.  Properly  a  pretty  ffall. 

This  may  be  teimed  auliz  beUa^  (if  not  a  proper^)  ^  a  pretty 
Hall,'^  even  by  the  confession  of  the  poet  so  critical  in  the  word  :— 

Sod  ;u»-BELLUS  homo,  CotiOj  piujllus  homo,X 

<<  What  thing  is  in  Uself  bnt  mnall^ 
That,  Cotta,  we  do  preUy  call. 

And  tie  beholding  of  this  House  mindeth  me  of  what  sur  Thomair 
More§  wviteth  of -a^she-farourite  of  king  Edward  IV.  as  to  this  par- 
ticular coikfogrmity  betwixt  them,.  (otherwiBe,  far  be  it  from  me  to 
resemble  this  Virgin  . Hall .  to .  a- .wanton  woman,)  namely,  that 
'^  there  was  nothing  in  her  body  one  could  have  changed,  except 
one  would  have  wished  her  somewhat  higher.''  Lowness  of  endow- 
ment, and  littleness  of  receipt,  is  all  [thai]  can  be  ca;yilled  at  in  this  - 
foundation,  otherwise  proportionably  most  complete  in  chapel,  clois- 
ter lSbn^<,  hall,- &c.  Indeed^  ;this  House  was  long  town-bound, 
(whi(^.liind«!rei  the^  growth/ thereof^)  till  Dr.Qostlin,  that  good» 
physician,  cured  it  of  that  disease,  by  giving  the  Bull  inn  tliereiinto;; 
50  tloit,  since,  it  hath  flourished  with  buildings. and  studeDts,hitely 
more  namevotb  than  iiy  gr&tev  Collies.  r       -    - 

•  J.  Scot's  "  Tables."  t  *sV«W^ed^s  Maps  in  the  catalogues  of  l^oth'counlies,'. 

X  Hartialis,  lib.  i.  epigram  lO.i  §  la  Ws-iist  of  Edward  \',  folio «».-     . .    .  i 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ  l€ 


i {L w s   o y    CO ix:e  d e s  a>:]d  j-iaxils >. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1  71».iin» 


Iftfir*  ll(vv 

and  HiobU 
IS  knar  of 

r  ho^baxKi's 

:ncry,  consie* 
-  she  overdid 
\  or  (at  Icmst) 
t*  chapel  Z'^ 


r  reputes,  squan^ 
I  i  ouse  ;  vhich  was 
t  I  heir  own  persons* 
Hine,  they  went  away 
eniicealcd  themselve* 
•a  11  a,  that,  of  the  if 
a  c/iild,  so  that  the 
rather  for  the  ownei 

blunt  Scotch  historian, 
J  cars  after,  whilst  those 

•'  Life  of  Jul:  ^  Df 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


126  HISTORrOFTHE  x,D.  U%. 

.  Mastess.-^!.  Robert  Roch.  2.  John  Tarton,  3.  John  War- 
doU.  4.  Richard  Barleston.  5.  Thomas  Green.  6.  Rainold 
Bainbrig.    7-  Edwin  Sandys.    8.  Edmund  Cosin.    9.  John  May. 

10.  Edmund  Hound.  11.  John  Overal.  12.  John  Hills.  13* 
Richard  Sibs.     14.  Ralph  Brownrigg.     15.  William  Spurstow. 

16.  John  Lightfoot. 

Benefactors.— 1.  Isabel  Canterbury,  sister  to  the  founder. 
2.  William  Taylor.  3.  Catherine  Mils.  4.  Robert  Simpton.  5. 
Hugh  Pemberton.  6.  John  Chester.  7.  Thomas  Green.  8.  The 
lady  Elizabeth  Bamardiston.  9.  John  Leach.  10.  Richard  Nealson. 

11.  Robert  Shorton.  12.  Dr.  Thimblebie.  13.  Dr.  Middleton. 
14.  Hugh  Garret.     15.  Rosamond  Paster.     16.  John  Colmley. 

17.  John  Duke.  18.  John  Claypoole.  19.  John  Gostlin,  knight, 
20.  Thomas  Buck,  esquire-beadle.  21.  Mr.  Christopher  Shirland. 
22.  Mrs.  Stafford.  23.  Mr.  Thomas  Hobbs.  24.  Mr.  Peter 
Pheasant.  25.  Lady  Cocket.  26.  Mrs.  Jurdain.  27.  Lady  Ann 
Bamardiston.  28.  Dr.  William  Gouge.  29.  Mr.  Coulson,.  30. 
Mr.  Skime,  esq.  31.  Mr.  Alured.  32.  Mr.  Ciadock.  33.  The 
worthy  Company  of  Mercers  of  the  city  of  London. 

Bishops. — Edwin  Sandjrs,  Master,  archbishop  of  York.  John 
May,  Master,  bishop  of  Carlisle.  John  Overal,  Master,  bishop*  of 
Norwich.     Ralph  Brownrigg,  Master,  bishop  of  Exeter. 

Leabned  Weitekst. — Edwin  Sandys,  archbishop  of  York. 
Richard  Sibs,  a  most  pious  and  profound  divine.  Thomas  Good- 
win, Fellow,  an  eminent  preacher.  John  Lightfoot,  an  excellent 
linguist. 

CoLLEaE-LiviNGs. — Cotou  rectory,  in  the  diocess  of  Ely,  va- 
lued at  £6. 128.  9id. 

So  that  lately  in  this  were  maintained  one  Master,  six  Fellows, 
with  all  the  Students,  above  an  hundred. 

.Richard  Freyer  and  Robert  Woodroof,  Proctors,  a.d.  1476; 
Thomas  Swayne  and  Gerard  Borell,  Proctors,  1477 ;  Gulielmus 
Stockdale  and  John  Laycroft,  Proctors,  1478. 

Joannes  Boynton,  Chancellor ;  Robert  Wellby  and  Robert  Lu- 
ther, Proctors,  1479 ;  Gulielmus  Thompson  and  Roger  Bower, 
•Proctors,  1480;  Philip  Morgan  and  Thomas  Hole,  Proctors, 
1481 ;  John  Green  and  James  Grave,  Proctors,  1482. 

Thomas  Rotherham,  Chancellor ;  John  Smith  and  Robert  Ha- 
cumblen.  Proctors,  1483 ;  John  Butler  and  Gilbert  Geuge,  Proc- 
tors, 1484. 

Thomas  Northwood,  Chancellor;  John  Butler  and  Gilbert 
Urmsen,  Proctors,  1485 ;  Gilbert  Fitz-John  and  Henry  Babing- 
ton.  Proctors,  1486;  Thomas  Waters  and  Gulielmus  Birly, 
Proctors,  1487, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Ift  BmST  VII.  UNIVBftSITY  OF  CAMBKIDOS.  127 

Itichardus  Badew,  Chancellor;  Richard  Walle  and  John  Baaaet, 
Proctors,  1488 ;  Thomas  Medcalfe  and  Roger  Laybnme,  Proctors, 
148d. 

Thomas  Cosbe,  Chancellor;  Ooaltems  Bedman  and  Edmond 
Davy,  Proctors,  1490 ;  Richard  Barton  and  John  Wolfe,  Proc- 
tors, 1491 ;  John  Sickling  and  John  Walle,  Proctors,  1492 ;  John 
Loand  and  Richard  Haddlestone,  Proctors,  1493. 

Joannes  Blithe,  Chancellor;  Richard  Brampton  and  John 
Robinson,  Proctors,  1494;  John  Fisher  and  Thomas  Cooke, 
Proctors,  1495. 

Robertus  Fitt-Hngh,  Chancellor;  Jacob  Denton  and  Thomas 
Gogney,  Proctors,  1496. 

42 — 44.  7^  Foundation  of  Je8U$  CcUege.     The  Incontinence  of 
Saint  BadeffuncTs  Nuns.    John  Major*8  Testimony  hereof. 

This  year  a  new  College  was  miide  in  Cambridge  of  an  old  nun- 
nery, founded  some  three  hundred  years  ago ;  namely,  anno  1133, 
by  Malcolm  of  the  Scots^  royal  race,  earl  of  Cambridge  and  Hunt- 
ingdon, and  dedicated  to  St.  Radegund.  This  Radegond,  daughter 
to  Bertram,  prince  of  Thunngia,  was  wife  to  Lotharius  king  of 
France,  (son  to  Clodoveus  [Clovis]  the  great,  the  first  Christian 
king  of  that  country,)  who,  sequestering  herself  from  her  hnsband^s 
company,  about  the  year  560,  lived  and  died  in  a  small  monastery 
in  Poitou,  thereby  gaining  the  reputation  of  a  saint. 

But,  it  seems,  the  Sisters  living  in  Cambridge-nunnery,  conse- 
crated to  her  honour,  fell  as  fiur  short  in  chastity  as  she  overdid 
therein.  Indeed,  one  of  them  left  a  good  memory,  or  (at  least) 
hath  a  good  epitaph  inscribed  on  her  monument  in  the  chapel  :^> 

Moribus  omtUayjacet  hie  bonm  Btrta  RoHi$a. 

But  the  rest  were  not  so  sweet  and  fragrant  in  their  reputes,  squan- 
dering away  the  wealth  and  ornaments  of  their  House ;  which  was 
no  wonder  for  tljiose  to  do,  who  were  prodigals  of  their  own  persons. 
Not  able,  therefore,  to  go  away  Jrom  'their  shame,  they  went  away 
with  their  shame ;  and,  quitting  their  cocvent,  concealed  themselves 
privately  in  their  own  country.  Tradition  saith,  that,  of  the  two 
remaining,  one  was  tcith  child,  the  other  but  a  child,  so  that  their, 
land  seemed  lapsed  for  want  of  owners,  or  rather  for  the  owners^ 
want  of  honesty.* 

But  let  us  bear  what  John  Major,  the  blunt  Scotch  historian, 
saith  hereof,*!"  living  in  Cambridge  some  years  after,  whilst  those 

*  Godwin,  in  his  catalogue  of  bishops  of  Ely,  in  tlie  **  Life  of  John  Alcock.^'  t  ^ 
€uUf  Scatdrum,  fol.  9.  ''  • 

Digitized' by  LjOOQ  l€ 


128 


HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1496. 


matters  were  yet  fresh  in  most  men's  memories  i-^Quoddam  mUe- 
rum  ccmobium  in  CoU^ium  Jem  cmf>erterunt  Mmlio  midUimmi 
pariter  et  optimi  mri  Stubia  DoctorU  Theologi.  Nolebanb  mtdieres^ 
iUm  indudi^  sed  sckolasUcorum  comortium  <id$M8ernnt.  Unde 
proves  viros  9candalizanmt^  quocirca  eis  ejeetis^  et  <diis » cosnobiis 
impoeitis^  eoetum  loco  students  inopes  podti  mnt^  quateniis  liieru  et 
mrtutibu8  incumbereni,  et  folium  darent  in  tempore  mo.  Hanc 
mulierum  ejeetionem  approbo.  8i  enim  pro  religione  proOibda 
nutriant^  eanm  loco  bonm  ponendce  mnt. 

15,  46.  The  Character  of  Bishop  Alcock.    Jesus  College  the  Bishy> 

of  Ely's  House* 
'  Their  viciousness  thus  generally  complained  of,  their  House,  with 
ill  the  land  thereof,  was  with  king  Heniy  VII.  and  pope  Julius  II. 
bestowed  on  John  Alcock,  bishop  of  Ely,  to  convert  it  into  a  Col- 
lege, dedicated  to  Jesus,  the  Virgin  Mary,  and  St.  Radegund.  A 
whole  volume  may  be  written  of  this  bishop,  bom  at  Beverley  in 
Yorkshire,  though  his  parents  lie  buried  at  Kingston-on-HuU, 
where  he  built  a  chantry  for  them,  and  a  free-school  for  the  benefit 
of  others.  John  Bale  (though  very  sparing  of  praising  persons  of 
flmt  age)  characteieth  him,  "  given  from  his  childhood  to  learning 
and  religion ;  so  growing  from  virtue  to  virtue,  that  no  one  in 
England  was  more  reputed  for  his  holiness.''  He  is  reported  to 
have  fared  very  sparingly  all  his  life  long,  and  to  have  conquered 
the  baits  of  his  wanton  flesh  by  his  festing,  studying,  watching,  and 
such  like  Christian  discipline. 

This  good  bishop  established  in  the  House  one  Master,  six  Fel- 
lows, and  six  Scholars,  commending  them  to  the  perpetual  tutelage 
of  -the  bishops  of  Ely.  Hence  it  is  that  when  those  bishops  lodge 
in  this  College,  (as  they  did  anno  1556,  1557,)  their  register 
reporteth  them  lying  in  "  their  own  House : "  and  though  Peter 
House,  as  founded  by  Balsham  bishop  of  Ely,  might  claim  the  same 
title  ;  yet  it  seems  those  bishops  have  a  more  particular  affection  to 
Jesus  College.  King  James,  in  his  coming  from  Newmarket 
hither,  commended  it  for  the  situation  thereof,  as  most  collegiate, 
retired  from  the  town,  and  in  a  meditating  posture  alone  by  itself. 

Masters.— 1.  William  Chubbs.  2.  John  Eccleston.  3.  Th(^ 
mas  Alcock.  4.  William  Capon.  5.  John  Roystdn.  6.  Edward 
Pierpoint.  7.  John  Puller.  8.  Thomas  Redman.  9.  Thomas 
Gascoigne.  10.  John  Lakin.  11.  Thomas  Ithell.  12.  John  BeD. 
15.  JohiiDuport.  14.  Roger  Andrews.  15.  William  Beale.  16- 
Richard  Sterne.     17.  John  Worthington. 

Be NBF ACTORS.— The  lady  Willoughby.  The  lady  Bray.  Ja>w®^ 
Stanley,  bishop  of  Ely.     Thomas  Thirlby,  bishop  of  Ely,  who  g»Ye 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


2^  HENRY  VII.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  129 

the  advoivsons  of  six  vicarages  to  this  College.  John  Beauchampey 
knight.  Sir  Robert  Read,  knight.  John  Andrews.  Dr.  Royston. 
Dr.  Fuller.  John  Batemanson.  Thomas  Roberts.  Roger  Thomey. 
Richard  Pigot.  Godfrey  Fuliam.  William  Marshall.  Jane  Woods» 
Thomas  Sutton,  esq. 

Bishops. — Thomas  Granmer,  archbishop  of  Canterbury.  John 
Bale,  bishop  of.  Ossory  in  Ireland.  Richard  Bancroft,  archbishop 
of  Canterbury.     John  Owen,  bishop  of  St.  Asaph. 

Leaaned  'Writers.— William  Chubbs  :  he  wrote  a  Logic, 
and  a  Comment  on  Scotus.  Oeoffrey  Dounes,  Tutor  to  John  Bale. 
Thomas  Cranmer,  Martyr.  John  Bale,  Confessor.  John  Dod, 
Fellow  of  this  House.  Sir  William  Boswell,  Lieger  in  Holland. 
Christopher  lord  Hatton. 

College  Livings. — ^All  Saints,  Cantab,  vicarage,  in  the  dio- 
cess  of  Ely,  valued  at  £5.  &.  3d.  St.  Sepulchre,*  Cantab,  vicar- 
age, in  the  dioce$3  of  Ely,  valued  at  £6.  Us.  Comberton  vicarage, 
in  the  diocess  of  Ely,  valued  at  «^6. 1&.  lOJrf.  Harlton  rectory,  in 
the  diocess  of  Ely,  valued  at  <dP14.  Ids,  5irf.  Graveley  rectory,  in 
die  diocess  of  Ely,  valued  at  .f  13.  28.  6d,  Oilden  Morden  vicarage, 
in  the  diocess  of  Ely,  valued  at  £3.  5s.  6d.  St  Clemenf  s  Cantab, 
vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of  Ely,  valued  at . 

So  that  lately  (namely,  anno  1635)  the  foundation  consisted  of 
one  Master,  sixteen  Fellows,  twenty-four  Scholars,  besides  Officers 
and  other  Students  ;  in  all  one  hundred  and  ten. 

Golielmus  Milner  and  Gulielmus  Tape,  Proctors,  a.  d.  1497. 

Richard  Wyat  and  John  White,  Proctors,  1498. 

Richard  Hutton  and  Brian  Kidday,  Proctors,  1499. 

Henceforward,  having  gained  more  certainty  from  our  registers, 
we  will  enlarge  ourselves  to  a  greater  proportion  both  of  the  names 
of  University-Officers,  and  numbers  of  the  annual  Commencers, 
adding  also  the  Mayors  of  the  town,  not  as  a  foil  to  the  diamond, 
but  because  it  may  conduce  something  to  the  certainty  of  chro- 
nology. 

Richard  Fox,  bishop  of  Winchester,  Chancellor ;  Henry  Babing- 
ton,  Vice-chancellor ;  John  Sickling  and  Thomas  Patison,  Proc- 
tors ;  Doctors  of  Divinity,  6 ;  Doctor  of  Canon  Law,  1 ;  Doctor 
of  Civil  Law,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  10  ;  Bachelors  of  Laws, 
13 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  29 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  23 ;  Masters  of 
Grammar,  4 ;     Henry  Kele,  Mayor  of  the  town.     a.d.  1500. 

John  Fisher,  Chancellor ;  John  Fisher,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Rich- 
ard Balderton  and  Richard  Wyat,  Proctors  ;  Doctors  of  Divinity, 
7 ;  Doctors  of  Civil  Law,  2 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  14 ;   Masters 

*  FoBer  here  appears  to  be  miataken,  as  the  vicarage  of  St.  Sepolcbre  is  not  in  the 
gilt  of  any  of  the  Colleges. — Edit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


130  HISTORY  OF  THE  A.  D.  1344. 

of  Arts,  27;    Masters  of  Grammar,  3;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  18; 
Bachelors  of  Arts,  23 ;  John  Bell,  Mayor  of  the  town.    1501.* 

George  Fitzhugh,  Chancellor ;  Humphrey  Fitz- William,  Vice- 
Chi^cellor;  Thomas  Edman,  and  John  Hutchinson,  Proctors; 
Doctors  of  Divinity,  2;  Doctor  of  Canon  Law,  4;  Doctor  of 
Civil  Law,  2;  Doctor  of  Medicine,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  8; 
Masters  of  Arts,  22 ;  Masters  of  Grammar,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws, 
.29;  Bachelors  of  Medicine,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  34 ;  Robert 
Morehouse,  Mayor  of  the  town.     1502. 

Thomas  Routhold,  Chancellor;  Galfride  Knight,  Vice-Chan- 
cellor;  John  Jennings  and  Gulielmus  Woodroof,  Proctors; 
Doctors  of  Divinity,  3;  Doctor  of  Civil  Law,  1;  Doctor  of 
Music,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  18 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  19 ; 
Bachelors  of  Laws,  18  ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  26 ;  Robert  Morehouse, 
Mayor  of  the  town.     1503. 

John  Fisher,  bishop  of  Rochester,  Chancellor;  John  Smith, 
Vice-Chancellor;  Robert  Cutler  and  John  Watson,  Proctors; 
Doctors  of  Divinity,  6 ;  Doctors  of  Canon  Law,  2 ;  Bachelors  of 
Divinity,  11;  Masters  of  Arts,  17;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  25; 
Bachelors  of  Arts,  24 ;  John  Bell,  Mayor  of  the  town.     1504. 

47.  First  ChanceUorfor  Life. 

The  University  perceived  it  was  troublesome  every  year  to 
choose  a  new  Chancellor.  Wherefore,  having  now  pitched  on  a 
person  of  much  merit  for  the  place,  (so  that  they  could  not  change 
but  to  loss,)  this  year  they  concluded  his  continuance  therein  for 
term  of  life;  which  act  of  the  University  was,  anno  1514,  more 
solemnly  confirmed.  Hereafter  it  will  be  superfluous  to  charge 
every  year  with  the  repeated  name  of  the  Chancellor,  as  always  the 
same,  till  another,  on  his  death,  be  elected. 

48 — 51.  ErasmuB  atudieth  in  Qtieen'^a  CoUege ;  was  first  Greek- 
then  Dimnity-Professor.  No  mercenary  Writers  in  Gam- 
bridge.  Cambridge  within  few  Years  much  improved  in 
Learning. 

About  this  time  Erasmus  came  first  to  Cambridge,^  (coming  and 
going  for  seven  years  together,)  having  his  abode  inQueen^s  College,f 
where  a  study  on  the  top  of  the  south-west  tower  in  the  old  court  still 
retaineth  his  name.     Here  his  labour  in  mounting  so  many  stairs, 

•  At  tMs  date  the  accurate  Le  Neve  commences  his  **  Accoimt  of  Vice-Chancellors 
and  Proctors  :''  which  often  varies  in  its  nomenclature  from  Fuller's  List.  This  is  a 
point  on  which  I  do  not  consider  myself  qualified  to  act  as  arbitrator  between  them. — 
EiJiT.  f  Fide  th«  date  of  his  first  epistle,  libro  viii. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


30  HENBr  VII.  UNIVKlbSITT  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  131 

(done,  perchance,  on  purpose  to  exercise  his  body,  and  prevent  cor- 
pulency,) was  recompensed  with  a  pleasant  prospect  round  about 
him.  He  often  complained  of  the  Gollege-de,  eermsia  hujus  loci 
mihi  nuUo  tnodo  pla6ei,'^''^A  raw,  small,  and  windy ;  *  whereby  it 
appears,  1.  Ale  in  that  age  was  the  constant  beyerage  of  all  Col- 
leges before  4he  innovation  of  beer  (the  child  of  hops)  was  brought 
into  England.  2.  Queen^s  College  eertiria  was  not  9%$  CererU^ 
but  Ceres  wti€aa.  In  my  time,  (when  I  was  a  member  of  that 
House,)  scholars  continued  Erasmuses  complaint ;  whilst  the  brew- 
ers (having,  it  seems,  prescription  on  their  side  for  long  time)  little 
amended  it.  The  best  was,  Erasmus  had  his  lagena  or  flagon  of 
wine  recruited  weekly  from  his  friends  at  London ;  which  he  drank 
sometimes  singly  by  itself,  and  sometimes  encouraged  his  fiunt  ale 
with  the  mixture  thereof. 

He  was  public  Ghreek  Professor,  and  first  read  the  Grammar  of 
Chrysoloras  to  a  thin  auditory ,-f"  whose  number  increased  when  he 
b^n  the  Grammar  of  Theodorus.  Then  took  he  (by  grace  freely 
granted  him)  the  degree  of  Bachelor  in  Divinity  ;  \  such  his  com- 
mendable modesty,  though  over-deserving  a  Doctorship,  to  desire 
no  more  as  yet,  because  the  main  of  his  studies  were  most  resident 
on  Humanity.  Here  he  wrote  a  small  tract  de  conscribendU  epis^ 
tolis,  set  forth  by  Siberl,  printer  to  the  University .§  Some  years 
after  he  took  upon  him  the  Divinity-Professor's  place,  (understand 
it  the  Lady  jMlargaret^)  invited  thereunto,  not  with  the  salary,  so 
small  in  itself,  ||  but  with  desire  and  hope  to  do  good  in  the 
employment. 

If  any  find  him  complaining,  Htc  (o  Academiam  !)  nuUua^  S^e. 
"Kerens  an  University  indeed,  wherein  none  can  be  found  who  will 
at  any  rate  be  hired  to  write  but  indifferently  ! '"  ^  know,  this  might 
tend  much  to  his  trouble,  but  sounds  nothing  to  the  disgrace  of 
Cambridge.  Indeed,^  in  Dutch  Academies,  many  poor  people 
made  a  mean  livelihood  by  writing  for  others,  though  but  liberal 
mechanics  in  their  employment.  No  such  mercenary  hands  in 
Cambridge,  where  every  one  wrote  for  himself;  and,  if  at  any  time 
for  others,  he  did  it  gratisj  as  a  courtesy  for  good-will,  no  service 
for  reward. 

How  much  Cambridge  was  lately  improved  in  learning,  the  same 
author  doth  thus  acquaint  us.  "  Almost  thirty  years  ago,''  saith 
he,  '<  nothing  else  was  handled  or  read  in  the  Schools  of  Cam- 
bridge, besides  Alexander,  the  Little  Logicab^  (aa  they  call  them,) 
and  those  old  dictates  of  Aristotle,  and  questions  of  Scotus.     In 

*  BpUUla  16,  Hbri  viii.  .      t  Lib.  viU.  epist.  1.  t  Caius,  Hut.  Cant, 

^cad.  Ub.  ii.  pitge  127.  §  Idem,  ibid.  \\  Lib.  viii.  epist.  3.  If  Lib.  viii. 

e^t.  6. 

K   2 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


132  HISTORY  OF  THE  ;  a.  p.  1505, 

process  of  time,  there  was  an  accession  of  good  learning,  the  know- 
ledge of  Mathematics  came  in ;  a  new  and,  indeed,  a.  renewed  Aris- 
totle came  in:  so  many  authors  came  in,  whose  very  names  were 
anciently  unknown.  To  wit,  it  hath  flourished  so  much,  that  it 
may  contend  with  the  prime  Schools  of  this  age ;  and  hath  such 
men  therein,  to  whom  if  such  be  compared  that  were  in  the  age 
before,  they  will  seem  rather  shadows  of  divines  than  divines."  * 

62 — 54.  Eramiuis  Judgment  of  Cambridge  and  Oxford.  A 
second^  a  thirds  Verdict  of  the  same.  His  Character  of  Gam- 
bridge  Totcnsmen. 

Take  also  the  comparative  character  of  Cambridge,  weighed  at 
this  time  with  Oxford,  whilst  the  judicious  hand  of  Erasmus  thus 
holdeth  the  beam  of  the  balance  :  "  John,  bishop  of  Rochester,— 
one  [who  is]  a  man,  a  true  bishop,  a  true  divine, — ^told  me  some 
three  years  since,  that  in  Cambridge,  (whereof  he  is  perpetual 
Chancellor,)  instead  of  sophistical  querks,  now  sober  and  sound 
disputations  are  agitated  amongst  divines ;  whence  men  depart  not 
only  leameder  but  better.  Oxford  University,  by  the  help  of  some 
monks,  did  at  first  make  some  resistance ;  but  such  were  curbed 
with  the  power  of  cardinal  Wolsey,  and  the  king'^s  authority,  who 
envied  so  great  good  to  that  most  famous  and  ancient  School.'' i* 

.  A  second  of  the  s^me  kind  will  not  be  amiss  to  present.  "  Eng- 
land,'' saith  he,  "  hath  two  most  noble  Universities,  Cambridge  and 
Oxford  ;  in  both  of  these  the  Greek  tongue  is  taught,  but  in  Cam- 
bridge quietly,  because  John  Fisher,  bishop  of  Rochester,  sits' 
governor  of  the  School,  not  only  for  his  learning's  sake,  but  for  his 
divine  life.  But  when  a  certain  young  man  at  Oxford  not  meanly 
learned  did  happily  enough  profess  the  Greek  tongue  there,  a  bar- 
barous fellow  in  a  popular  sermon  began  to  rail  against  the  Greek 
tongue  with  great  and  heinous  revilings."  J  And  in  another  place  : 
**By  the  wisdom  of  Thomas,  cardinal  of  York,  the  School  of| 
Oxford  shall  be  adorned,  not  only  with  all  kind  of  tongues  andj 
learning,  but  also  with  such  manners  which  become  the  best  studies^ 
For  the  University  of  Cambridge  long  ago  doth  flourish  yitl^ 
all  ornaments,  John,  bishop  of  Rochester,  being  the  Chancellor 
thereof."  § 

But  too  tart  and  severe  is  Erasmus's  censure  of  Cambridge 
townsmen :  Vvlgus  Gantabrigiense  inhospitales  Britannos  ante 
cedit^  qui  cum  summd  ricsticitate  summam  mxilitiam  conjunxere 
"  Cambridge  townsmen  go  beyond  the  inhospitable  Britons,  wh< 
have  malice  joined  with  their  clownishness."  ||     And  although  somi 

•  Lib.  u.  epistola  10.  f  Lib.  xvii.  epist.  11.  X  Lib.  vi.  epist.  ^ 

%  Lib.  tL  epiat.  27.  ||  Lib.  viii.  epist.  8,  9. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


21  HBNiiY'  VII.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  •  l33 

will  say  the  townsmen  are  no  changelings  at  this  day ;  yet,  seeing 
Cambridge  is  sometimes  called  dmtas^  and  often  urba;  some 
of  her  inhabitants  express  much  civility  and  urbanity  in  theix 
behaviour. 

Richard  Burton,  Vice-Chancellor ;  William  Lambert  and  Ed- 
mond  Page,  Proctors ;  Doctors  of  Divinity,  2 ;  Bachelors  of 
Divinity,  7;  Masters  of  Arts,  18;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  6;  Bach©* 
lore  of  Arts,  23 ;  Henry  Kele,  Mayor,     a.d.  1505. 


SECTION  VI. 

EDVARDO  BENLOSSIO  ARMIGERO,  MECiENATI  SUO 
BENEVOLO. 

Septem  Principum  Aulas  transmarinas  (ni  mal6  me- 
mini)  te  perlustr^se  accepi.  In  quibus  splendidae  vestes, 
dubiae  dapes,  ingens  famulitium,  continuus  strepitus, 
multa  denique  confusio,  quae  in  regum  hospitiis,  honoris 
ergo,  Magnificentia  est  nominanda. 

En  tibi  plures  Musarum  Aulas  (sic  opposite  Collegia 
dicuntur)  in  h4c  Historic  nostrA  descriptas !  Esto  tu 
apquLjsimus  arbiter,  (ciim  utraque  tibi  notissima,)  Auli- 
corum  an  Academicorum  vita  sit  beatior.  Non  dubito  te 
niugicolarum  placidam  quietem,  vestitum  simplicem, 
^Itum  tenuem,  fercula  vacua,  mentes  plenas,  phaleratis 
Palatinorum  miseriis,  ac  eorum  tolerabiU  vanitatii  praela- 
tarum. 

Praesertim  Joannense  Collegium  dulcedine  su&  te 
allecturum  spero ;  ciim  tibi  olim  natale  solum,  ubi  Uteris 
foisti  innutritus,  et  cui  donaria  non  contemnenda  dedisti, 
plura  et  pretiosiora  (ni  fallor)  daturus ;  si  omnia  justse 
tuae  expectationi  respondissent. 

1.  Kinff  Henry  comes  to  Cambridge. 

Henry  VIL  came  to  Cambridge,  where  he  bestowed  an  hundred 
marks  on  the  University,  and  forty  pounds  (a  fair  sum  in  that 
age  from  so  thrifty  a  king)  on  the  fabric  of  St.  Mary's,  where 
the  scholars  meet  weekly  at  public  sermons,  and  yearly  at  the 
^'ommencement. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


134  HlgTORY  OF  THE  a,  p.  1506. 

2.  The  Building  of  8t.  Mary's. 
The  mention  of  St.  Mary's  mindeth  me  of  church-work  indeed, 
BO  long  it  waa  from  the  foundipg  to  the  finishing  thereof;  as, 
begim  May  16th,  1478,  when  the  first  stone  thereof  was  laid  in 
the  seventeenth  of  Edward  IV.— The  church  ended  (but  without 
a  tower  or  belfry)  1519,  in  the  eleventh  of  Henry  VIIL—The 
tower  finished  1608,  in  the  sixth  of  king  James.— So  that,  from 
the  beginning  to  the  ending  thereof  were  no  fewer  than  an  hun- 
dred and  thirty  years.  There  was  expended  in  the  structure  of 
the  church  alone  seven  hundred  ninety-five  pounds,  two  shillings, 
and  a  penny,  all  bestowed  by  charitable  people  for  that  purpose. 
Amongst  whom,  Thomas  Barow,  Doctor  of  Civil  Law,  archdeacon 
of  Colchester,  formerly  Fellow  of  King's  Hall,  and  Chancellor  of 
his  house  to  king  Richard  III.  gave,  for  his  part,  two  hundred 
and  forty  pounds.* 

3—5.  The  Foundation  of  Christ's  CoUege.     The  fair  endowment 
thereof    A  Lady  of  Pity, 

One  may  probably  conjecture,  that  a  main  motive  which  drew 
king  Henry  this  year  to  Cambridge  was,  with  his  presence  to 
grace  his  mother's  foundation  of  Christ's  College,  now  newly  laid, 
without  Bamwell-gate,  over  against  St.  Andrew's  church,  in  a  place 
where  God's  House  formerly  stood,  founded  by  king  Henry  VI. 
This  king  had  an  intention  (had  not  deprivation,  a  civil  death, 
prevented  him)  to  advance  the  Scholars  of  this  foundation  to  the, 
full  number  of  sixty,  though  (a  great  fall)  never  more  than  four 
lived  there,  for  lack  of  maintenance.  Now  the  lady  Margaret, 
countess  of  Richmond  and  Derby,  (accounting  herself,  as  of  the 
Lancaster  line,-  heir  to  all  king  Henry's  godly  intentions,)  only 
altered  the  name  from  God's  House  to  Christ's  College,  and  made 
up  the  number,  namely,  one  Master,  twelve  Fellows,  forty-seven 
Scholars ;  in  all  sixty. 

Great  and  good  were  the  lands  which  this  lady,  by  her  last 
will,  bestowed  on  this  College,  in  several  counties.  In  Cambridge^ 
shire,  the  manors  of  Malton,  Meldreth,  and  Beach,  with  divert 
lands  and  rents,  elsewhere  in  that  county.  In  Leicestershire,  th« 
manor  of  Dites worth,  alias  Diseworth,  with,  lands  and  tenements  ill 
Ditesworth,  Kegworth,  Hathern,  and  Wolton.  In  Norfolk,  th< 
abbey  of  Creyke,  which  was  in  the  king's  hands,  as  dissolves 
and  extinct,  settled  by  the  pope's  authority  and  the  king's  licence 
Jn  Essex,  the  manor  of  Roydon.  In  Wales,  Manibire,  [Manot 
bier,]  an  impropriation  .f     This  lady,  being  of  Welsh  affinity, 

•  C^ius,  Historia  Aead.  Cantab,  Kb.  i.  page  90.  f  All  these    I   have  traac 

ecribed  out  of  her  laat  will. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


« HEKBT  Til.  UNIVEfeSlTY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  l35 

Teather  [Tudor]  bj  lAarriage,  and  having  long  lived  in  Wales, 
(where  her  son  king  Henry  VII.  was  bom  in  Pembroke,)  thought 
fitting,  in  commemoration  thereof,  to  leave  some  Welsh  land  to 
this  her  foundation. 

Once  the  ladj  Mai^garet  came  to  Christ^s  College,  to  behold 
it  vhen  partly  built ;  and,  looking  out  of  a  window,  saw  the 
dean  call  a  &ulty  Scholar  to  correction ;  to  whom  she  said,  Lenti, 
lenti!  '^Oently,  gently,^  as  accounting  it  better  to  mitigate  his 
punishment  than  to  procure  his  pardon  :  mercy  and  justice  making 
the  best  medley  to  offenders.* 

6.  John  Major  a  Student  in  Chrut'^s  CoUege, 

John  Major,  a  Scottishman,  and  a  Scottish  historian  of  good 
Account,  was  (only  for  the  term  of  three  months)  a  Student  in 
this  College,  as  himself  acknowledgeth.  He  reporteth,  that  the 
Scholars  of  Cambridge  in  his  time  ^^  usually  went  armed  with  bows 
and  swords ;  "-f- Vhich  our  learned  antiquary  is  very  loath  to  believe, 
except  it  was  John  Major^s  chance  to  come  to  Cambridge  in  that 
Teiy  juncture  of  time,  when  the  Scholars,  in  feud  with  the  towns- 
men, stood  on  their  posture  of  defence.^  Thus  Pallas  herself  may 
sometimes  be  put  to  it,  to  secure  her  wit  by  her  weapons.  But 
W  Major  lived  as  many  years  as  he  did  but  months  in  this 
University,  he  would  have  given  a  better  account  of  their  peace- 
ahle  demeanour. 

7.  John  Ldand  FeUouD  therein. 
JohnTLdand,  that  learned  antiquary,  was  a  Fellow  of  this  foun- 
dation, as  he  gratefully  professeth.  I  account  it  therefore  in  myself 
an  excusable  envy,  if  repining  that  the  rare  manuscripts  of  his 
collections  were,  since  his  death,  bestowed  on  Oxford  library,  and 
not  here  where  he  had  his  education.  But  I  remember  a  maxim  in 
onr  Common  Law,  wherein  the  lands  (such  are  books  to  scholars)  of 
ft  son,  deceasing  without  heirs,  fall  rather  to  his  uncle  or  aunt,  than 
father  or  mother.§ 

8.  Reform<xtion  of  Augmentation* 

Many  years  after  the  founding  of  this  College,  complaint  was 
made  to  king  Edward  VI.  of  superstition  therein ;  the  Master  and 
tvelye  Fellows  of  this  Christ- College  superstitiously  alluding  to 
Christ  and  his  twelve  apostles.  Probably  the  peevish  informers 
^oold  have  added,  that  the  Dieeipuli,  or  Scholars  in  this  House, 

'  TUs  I  he«rd  in  a  Cleram,  from  Dr.  Conings.  t  l*i^-  I>e  Oettit  Scotorum, 

^P-  5.  J  Caios,  Ui»foria  Acad,  Ctmiab.  page  74.  §  In  Vita  regU 

Siierti.  fcL  70. 

Digitized  by  V^OOQlC 


136  HISTORY  OF  THE  ,    A.D.  1805. 

vere  in  imitation  of  Christ's  seventy  disciples,  save  the  number  cor- 
responds not,  as  being  but  forty-seven  by  the  original  foundation. 
Hereupon  king  Edward  altered  this  number  of  twelve,  not  by  sub- 
traction, (the  most  easy  and  profitable  way  of  reformation,)  but 
addition,  founding  a  thirteenth  fellowship  and  three  scholarships 
out  of  the  impropriation  of  Bourn,  which  he  bestowed  on  the 
College:  and  so  real  charity  discomposed  suspected  superstition. 
This  good  king  also  gave  the. College,  in  lieu  of  the  manor  of  Roy- 
don,  which  he  took  from-it,  the  entire  revenues  of  Bromwell  Abbey, 
such  was  his  bountiful  disposition.  Nor  can  it  be  proved  that  in 
his  own  person  he  ever  did  to  any  an  injurious  action,  though  too 
many  under  him  (if  those  may  be  termed  "  under  him  "  who  did 
vhat  they  pleased  themselves)  were  too  free  of  their  favours  in  that 
nature. 

9.  The  Worthies  of  this  College. 

It  may  without  flattery  be  said  of  this  House,  "  Many  daughters 
have  done  virtuously,  but  thou  excellest  them  all ; "  (Proverbs 
xxxi.  29  ;)  if  we  consider  the  many  divines  who,  in  so  short  a  time, 
have  here  had  their  education.  Let. papists  tell  you  of  Richard 
Reignalds,  Doctor  of  Divinity,  a  monk. of  Zion  ;  of  William  Exi- 
mew,  a  Carthusian ;  both  bred  here,  and  martyred,  say  they,  for 
the  catholic  cause,  anifio  1535  ;  of  Richard  Hall,  who  ran  beyond  the 
seas,  became  canon  of  Cambray,  and  wrote  the  manuscript-life  of 
bishop  Fisher :  *  we  chiefly  take  notice  of  the  divines  bred  here  since 
the  Reformation. 

Masters. — 1.  John  Sickling,  Fellow  of  God's  Houie,  first 
Master.  2.  Richard  Wiat,  Doctor  of  Divinity,  3.  Thomas 
Thompson,  Doctor  of  Divinity,  a  good  benefactor.  4,  John 
Watsonne,  Doctor  of  Divinity.  5.  Henry  Lockwood,  Doctor  of 
Divinity,  6.  Richard  Wilks,  Doctor  of  Divinity,  chosen,  1549. 
7»  Cuthbert  Scot,  Doctor  of  Divinity,  chosen  1553.  8.  William 
Taylor,  Doctor  of  Divinity,  chosen  1557.  9.  Edward  Hawford, 
Doctor  of  Divinity,  chosen  1559.  He  was  a  good  benefactor.  10, 
Edmund  BarwelJ,  Doctor  of  Divinity,  chosen  1581.  11.  Valen- 
tine Carey,  Doctor  of  Divinity,  chosen  1610.  12.  Thomas  Bain- 
brigg.  Doctor  of  Divinity,  chosen  1620.  13.  Samuel  Bolton.  14. 
Balph  Cudworth. 

Bishops. — 1.  Hugh  Latimer,  bishop  of  Worcester,  1535,  and 

martyr.    2.  Nicholas  Heath,t  archbishop  of  York,  1553*    3.  Cuth- 

^  bert  Scot,  bishop  of  Chester,  1556.    4.  William  Hughes,  bishop 

•  PiTZ^DS,  in  cnit.  uU,  t  So  saith  Dr.  WiUet,  in  Lis  dedication  of  his  Com- 

ment on  Samuel,  to  this  College,  Indeed,  I  iind  one  Heth,  (bnt  not  his  Christian  name>) 
Fellow  of  this  Colloge,  1620. 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle' 


21 HBNIY  VII.  UNIVEB8ITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  137 

of  St.  Aeh^Ii,  1573-  5.  Anthony  Watson,  bishop  of  Chichester, 
1596.  e.  Valentine  Carey,  Bishop  of  Exeter,  1620.  D.  John- 
son, archbishop  of  Dublin.  Brute  Babington,  bishop  of  Derry, 
in  Ireland.  George  Downham,  bishop  of  Derry,  in  Ireland.  WU- 
liam  Chappel,  bishop  of  Cork,  in  Ireland. 

Benkfactobs. — 1.  John  Fisher,  bishop  of  Rochester.  2.  Sir 
Walter  Mildmay,  knight.     3.  Ridiard  Risley.    4.  Dr.  Patison. 

5.  Philip  Rawlins.  6.  Mr.  Jennings.  7.  Nicholas  Culverwell. 
8.  Thomas  Laughton.  9.  Mr.  Wentworth.  10.  Robert  Isham. 
11.  Richard  Bunting.     12.  Richard  Car. 

Learnisd  Wbitebs,  Fellows.—!.  Edward  Dearing.  2.  John 
More,  preacher  in  Norwich.  He  made  the  excellent  map  of  the 
Land  of  Palestine.  3.  Hugh  Broughton,  a  learned  man,  espe- 
cially  in  the  eastern  languages,  but  very  opinionative.  4.  Andrew 
Willet,  one  of  admirable  industry.  5.  Richard  Clarke,  one  of  the 
translators  of  the  Bible,  and  an  eminent  preacher  at  Canterbury, 

6.  WiUiam  Perkins.  7-  Thomas  Morton,  a  melancholy  man,  but 
excellent  commentator  on  the  Corinthians.  8.  Francis  Dillingham, 
a  great  Orecian,  and  one  of  the  translators  of  the  Bible.  9. 
Thomas  Taylor,  a  painful  Preacher  and  profitable  writer.  10.  Paul 
Baynes;  he  succeeded  Mr.  Perkins  at  St.  Andre w^s  [church]. 
11.  Daniel  Rogers,  one  of  vast  parts,  lately  deceased.  12.  Wil- 
liam Ames,  Professor  of  Divinity  in  Holland.  13.  Joseph  Mede, 
most  learned  in  mystical  Divinity. 

Leabked  Wbitebs,  no  Fellows. — 1.  Anthony  Gilby.  He 
lived,  saith  Bale,  in  Queen  Mary^s  reign,  an  exile  in  Geneva. 
2.  Arthur  Hildersham,  Hcereticorum  malleus.  3.  John  Downham, 
lately  deceased,  author  of  the  worthy  work  of  "  The  Holy  War-  * 
^re."  4.  Robert  Hill,  Doctor  of  Divinity.  He  wrote  on  the 
Lord's  Prayer.  6.  Edward  Topsell  wrote  on  Ruth,  6.  Thomas 
Draxe.  7-  -—  Elton.  8.  Richard  Bernard,  of  Batcomb.  9. 
Nathanael  Shute,  another  Chrysostom  for  preaching.  10,  William 
Whately,     11.  Henry  Scudder. 

Livings. — Kegworth  rectory,  in  the  diocess  of  Lincoln,  valued 
at  ^25. 15*.  8d.  Toft  rectory,  in  the  diocess  of  Ely,  ^6.  1&.  dd. 
Cauldecot  rectory,  in  the  diocess  of  Ely,  valued  at  £3. 12a.  Bourn 
vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of  Ely,  valued  at  £9, 15s.  dd.  Clipston 
duarvm  partium  rectory,  in  the  diocess  of  Peterborough,  valued  at 
•^11. 12*.  8d.  Helpston  vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of  Peterborough, 
valued  at  £8.  Os.  4td.  Nawmby  [Navenby]  rectory,  in  the  diocess  of 
Lincob,  valued  at  ^17-  9*.  lOd.  Croxton  vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of 
NWich,  valued  at  ^^6. 13*.  4c?.  Maverbyre  [Maenor  Byrr,  or  Ma- 
Jiorbeer]  vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of  St.  David's,  valued  at  £Q.  Ring- 
stead  vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of  Norwich,  valued  at .     Gatcly 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


138  HISTORY  OF  THE  A.D.  1609. 

vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of  Norwich,  valued  at  £3.  2$.  8d.   Hapton 
vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of  Norwich,  valued  at  — . 

With  many  more  worthies  still  alive :  amongst  whom  Mr.Nicho- 
las  Estwich,  parson  of  Warkton,  in  Northamptonshire,  a  solid 
divine,  and  a  great  advancer  of  my  Church  History,  by  me  must 
not  be  forgotten.  I  have  done  with  Christ  College,  when  we  have 
observed  it  placed  in  St  Andrew's  parish,  the  sole  motive,  by 
Major'^s  own  confession,*  making  him  to  enter  himself  therein  a 
student,  St.  Andrew  being  reputed  the  tutelar  saint  of  that  nation. 
Had  Emmanuel  been  extant  in  that  age,  he  would  have  been 
much  divided  to  dispose  of  himself,  finding  two  so  fair  founda- 
tions in  the  same  parish. 

10.  Ccmtian  gmerai. 

Be  the  following  caution  well  observed,  which  here  I  place  as 
in  the  midst  of  this  our  History,  that  it  may  indifferently  be 
extended  to  all  the  Colleges  as  equally  concerned  therein:  Let 
none  expect  from  me  an  exact  enumeration  of  all  the  worthies  in 
every  College,  seeing  each  one  affordeth — ^some  writers  from  me 
concealed ;  let  not  therefore  my  want  of  knowledge  be  accounted 
their  want  of  worth — many  most  able  scholars,  who  never  publicly 
appeared  in  print ;  nor  can  their  less  learning  be  inferred  from  their 
more  modesty — ^many  pious  men,  though  not  so  eminently  learned, 
very  painful  and  profitable  in  God's  vineyard.  Yea,  the  general 
weight  of  God's  work  in  the  church  lieth  on  men  of  middle  and 
moderate  parts.  That  servant  who  improved  his  two  talents  into 
four,  did  more  than  the  other  who  increased  his  five  into  ten. 
(Matthew  xxv.  12.)  Tradesmen  will  tell  you,  it  is  harder  to 
double  a  little  than  treble  a  great  deal ;  seeing  great  banks  easily 
improve  themselves,  by  those  advantages  which  smaller  sums  want. 
And  surely  many  honest  (though  not  so  enainent)  ministers,  who 
employ  all  their  might  in  God's  service,  equal,  (if  not  exceed,) 
both  in  his  acceptance  and  the  church's  profit,  the  performances  of 
such  who  far  excel  them  in  abilities. 

John  Eccleston,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Edmund  Natares  and  Thomas 
Swayn,  Proctors ;  Doctors  of  Divinity,  12;  Doctors  of  Canon  Law, 
2 ;  Doctors  of  Civil  Law,  2 ;  Doctors  of  Physic,  2 ;  Doctor  of 
Music,  1  ;  Masters  of  Arts,  25  ;  Masters  of  Grammar,  3 ;  Bache- 
lors of  Laws,  18 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  26 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity, 
8;  John  Brakingthorp,  Mayor.      a.i>.  1506. 

William  Robson,  Vice-Chancellor;  John  Philips  and  Richard 
Picard,  Proctors ;  Doctor  of  Divinity,  1 ;  Doctor  of  Canon  Law, 
1 ;  Bachelor  of  Divinity,  1  ;  Masters  of  Arts,  17;   Bachelors  of 

•  Lib.  i.  fol.  8.     E6  gttdd  ipsum  in  SI.  Andrea:  parochiu  sifum  offendi. 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


1  BUfET  VIII.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGB.  139 

Laws,  5 ;  Bachelor  of  Music,  1 ;  Bachelon  of  ArU,  42 ;  John 
Biakmgthoip,  Mayor.    1507. 

William  Backenham,  Vice-Chancellor ;  James  Nicolson  and 
Miles  Bycardick,  Procton ;  Doctors  of  Divinity^  3  ;  Bachelors  of 
Divinity.  5;  Masters  of  Arts,  18 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  12 ;  Bache- 
lors of  Arts,  46 ;  Hugh  Chapman,  Mayor.    1508. 

William  Buckenham,  Vice-Chancellor ;  William  Chapman  and 
William  Brighouse,  Proctors ;  Doctors  of  Divinity,  6 ;  Bache- 
lon of  Divinity,  8 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  14 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws, 
11;  Bachelors  of  ArU,  31;  Hugh  Raukin,  Mayor.  1509. 
1  Henry  VIII. 

11, 12.  The  Decah  of  the  Lady  Margarets  The  Care/ulnets  of 
her  JSaeoutars. 

Last  year  began  the  foundation  of  St.  John^s  College,  whose 
foundress,  the  lady  Margaret,  countess  of  Richmond  and  Derby, 
died  before  the  finishing  thereof.  This  lady  was  bom  at  Bletsoe  in 
Bedfordshire,  where  some  of  her  own  needlework  is  still  to  be  seen, 
which  was  constantly  called  for  by  king  James,  when  passing 
thereby  in  his  progress.  Her  father  was  John  Beaufort,  duke  of 
Somerset,  and  mother  Margaret  Beauchamp,  a  great  inheritrix.*  So 
that  fair-fort  and  fair-fidd  [Beau-fort  and  Beau-champ]  met  in 
this  kdy,  who  was  fair-body  and  fair-soul^  being  the  exactest  pat- 
tern of  the  best  devotion  those  days  afforded,  taxed  for  no  personal 
faults  but  the  errors  of  the  age  she  lived  in.  John  Fisher,  bishop 
of  Rochester,  preached  her  funeral  sermon,  wherein  he  resembled 
her  to  Martha  in  four  respects  :  First,  nobility  of  person  :  Secondly, 
discipline  of  her  body :  Thirdly,  in  ordering  her  soul  to  God : 
Fourthly,  in  hospitality  and  charity.  He  concluded,  she  had  thirty 
kings  and  queens  (let  he  himself  count  them)  within  the  four 
degrees  of  marriage  to  her,  besides  dukes,  marquesses,  earls,  and 
other  princes.f  She  lieth  buried  in  the  chapel  at  Westminster, 
near  her  son,  in  a  fair  tomb  of  touchstone,  whereon  lieth  her  image 
of  gilded  brass.  She  died  June  29th,|  and  was  buried  (as  appeareth 
by  a  note  annexed  to  her  testament)  the  July  following. 

Her  death,  though  for  a  time  retarding,  did  not  finally  obstruct, 
the  ending  of  St.  John's  College,  which  was  effectually  prosecuted 
by  such  as  she  appointed  her  executors,  namely,  1.  Richard  Fox, 
bishop  of  Winchester.  2.  John  Fisher,  bishop  of  Rochester.  3. 
Charles  Somerset,  lord  Herbert,  afterwards  earl  of  Worcester* 
4.  Sir  Thomas  Lovel,  treasurer  of  the  king^s  house.  5.  Sir  Henry 
(afterwards  lord)  Mamey,  chancellor  of  the  duchy  of  Lancaster. 

*  Camden,  in  Bedfbrdfhire.  t  Richard  Hall,  in  his  mannscHpt  <<  Life  of 

Jolin  PIdtcr,  Bishop  of  Rediester."  \  Stow'8  «  Clminicle,"  page  487. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


140  HISTORY  OF  THR  A.D.  1609. 

• 

6.  Sir  John  St.  John,  her  chamberlain  and  near  kinsman,  7.  Henry 
Hornby,  (master  of  Peter  House,)  her  chancellor.  8.  Sir  Hugh 
Ashton,  comptroller  of  her  household.  This  Sir  Hugh  (whom  I 
conceive  rather  Sir  PHegt  than  Sir  Knight*)  was  a  good  benefactor 
to  the  College,  and  lieth  buried  on  the  north  side  in  the  outward 
chapel  thereof,  in  a  tomb  with  a  double  portraiture  (one  presenting 
him  as  alive,  the  other  as  a  skeleton)  he-rebussed^  according  to  the 
ingenuity  of  that  age,  with  an  ask  growing  out  of  a  tim. 

13,  14.  The  Site  of  St,  JohrCs  College.  Crowded  with  Students. 
The  ground  whereon  this  College  is  sited  was  long  ago  con- 
signed to  pious  uses,  though  three  times  the  property  thereof  was 
altered.  1.  When  Nigellus  or  Neal,  second  bishop  of  IJly,  founded 
here  an  hospital  for  Canons  Regular,  anno  1134.  On  which  king 
Edward  I.  bestowed  the  goods  of  forestallers  or  regraters  legally 
forfeited.^  2.  When  Hugh  de  Balsham,  tenth  bishop  of  Ely, 
translated  it  to  a  priory ,J  and  dedicated  it  to  St.  John  the  evan- 
gelist. 3.  When  the  lady  Margaret's  executors,  converting  it  to  a 
College,  continued  it  to  the  honour  of  St.  John.  These,  accord- 
ing to  her  last  will,  first  paid  all  the  debts  of  the  old  House, 
duly  proved,  (justice  must  precede  charity,)  then,  with  the  issues 
and  profits  of  her  land  in  Somersetshire,  Devonshire,  and  North- 
amptonshire, erected  this  new  foundation. 

So  filled,  or  rather  crowded,  was  this  College  with  Scholars,  it 
was  hard  for  one  to  get  a  study  several  to  himself;  and,  in  the 
days  of  our  fathers,  the  Students,  when  writing  private  letters, 
were  used  to  cover  them  with  their  other  hand,  to  prevent  over- 
inspection.  Since,  God  hath  made  them  Behoboth  or  "room," 
by  the  addition  of  another  court,  (not  inferior  to  the  former  in 
beauty  and  bigness,)  which  made  king  James  once  merrily  say,  that 
there  was  "  no  more  difference  betwixt  Trinity  (consisting  chiefly  in 
one  great  quadrangle)  and  St.  John'*s  College,  than  betwixt  a  shilling 
and  two  sixpences." 

15.  A  Rape  offered  on  the  Muses. 
The  infancy  of  this  College  met  with  a  malady,  which  much  hin- 
dered the  growth,  almost  ended  the  life,  thereof.  A  generation  of 
prowling,  progging,  projecting  promoters,  (such  vermin,  like  Pha- 
raoh's firogs,  will  sometimes  creep  even  into  king's  bedchambers, 
Exodus  viii.  3,)  questioning  the  title  of  the  land  of  the  College, 
took  from  it  at  once  four  hundred  pounds  of  yearly  revenue.     If  the 

*  '^  Sach  priests  as  have  the  addition  of  Sir  hefore  their  Christiaa  name  were  men  not 
graduated  in  the  University,  being  in  orders,  but  not  in  degrees."  See  more  on  this 
subject  in  Fuller's  "  Church  History,"  vol.  i.  pp.  269— 271.— Edit.  4  Caios, 

Historia  CantaJb.  Acad,  page  75.  X  Scot's  "  Tables." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1  iiENBY  viii.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  141 

reporter  (being  a  great  rhetorician)  doth  not  a  little  hyperbolize 
therein,  who  thus  complaineth  to  the  duke  of  Somerset,  lord  pro- 
ieeibT^-^Gerti  qui^em  homines^  regii  minittri^  qui  diviticu  regis  in 
Qcerm  peeuniarum  panunt^  (dim  beneoclentia  populi,  solus  reipub* 
liccBj  vera  rdigioy  et  optima  doctrina^  optimi  regis  eertissinuv 
divituB  extant^)  bene/icium  Jimdairieis  tnagnam  partem  nobis 
aiitukrunt:  quadringentw  eni'm  minoB  annuw  ex  nostris  prcediolis 
amputake  sunt.-^AscuAM,  Commendaiitiarum  Epistolarum  lib.  i. 
p.  377.  This  wrong  was  done  in  the  beginning  of  the  reign  of  king 
Henry  VIII,  and  never  after  redressed.  Strange  that  the  lady 
Margaref s  executors  (men  too  virtuous  to  offer  stolen  goods  for  a 
sacrifice,  and  too  wise  to  be  cozened  with  cracked  titles)  should 
endow  this  College  with  so  much  land,  to  which  they  had  no  true 
ngbt;  which  makes  some  suspect  violence  and  injustice  in  the 
lying's  officers*  Nothing  so  high,  or  so  holy,  but  some  hungry 
harpies  will  prey  upon  it. 

Masters.— 1.  Alan  Piercy,  son  to  Henry  earl  of  Northumber- 
land. 2.  Robert  Shorton.  3.  Nicholas  Medcalf.  4.  Geoige  Day. 
5.  John  Tailer.  6.  William  Bill.  7-  Thomas  Leaver.  8.  Tho- 
mas WatsoD.  9.  George  Bullock.  10.  James  Pilkington.  11. 
Leonard  Pilkington.  12.  Richard  Longworth.  13.  Nicholas  Shep;. 
pard.  14.  John  Still.  15.  Richard  Houland.  16.  William  WhiU 
aker.    I7.  Richard  Clayton.     18.  Owen  Gwin.    19.  William  Beal. 

20.  Dr.  John  Arrowsmith.     21.  Dr.  Anthony  Tuckney. 
Benefactors. — 1.  John  Morton,  archbishop  of  Canterbury. 

2.  Lady  Anne  Rooksby.  3.  Dr.  Fell.  4.  Dr.  Keyton.  5.  Hugh 
Ashton.  6.  Dr.  Lupton.  7.  Dr.  Thimbleby.  8.  Dr.  Dounham. 
9.  John  Constable.  10.  Robert  Simpson.  11.  Robert  Ducket. 
12.  Thomas  Lane.  13.  John  Grigeon.  14.  James  Berisford.  15. 
Robert  Holytreehelm.  16.  John  Repingham.  17-  Dr.  Linacre. 
18.  John  Baylye,      19.  Dr.  Thompson.     20.  Walter  Bankings. 

21.  Catherine  duchess  of  Suffolk.  22.  John  Thurlston.  23.  Ste- 
phen Cardinal!.  24.  Sir  Ambrose  Caves.  25.  Thomas  Coney.  26. 
Dr.  Goodman.  27-  William  Cecil  lord  Burghley.  28.  Lady  Mil- 
dred Cecil.  29.  Sir  Henry  Billingsley.  30.  Dr.  Gwin.  31.  The 
lady  Jermin.  32.  Henry  Heblethwaite.  33.  William  Spalding,  and, 
34.  William  Spalding's  brother.  35.  Robert  Booth.  36.  Henry 
Alby,  37.  John  Walton.  38.  John  Waller.  39.  Mary  countess  of 
Shrewsbury.  40.  George  Palm.  41.  William  lord  Maynard.  42* 
Robert  Lewes.  43.  John  Knewstubs.  44.  Mrs.  Cutler.  45.  John 
Hooper.  46.  John  Williams,  lord  keeper,  who  built  a  most  beau* 
tifiil  library.     47.  Sir  Ralph  Hare.     48  Robert  Johnson. 

Bishops. — 1.    John   Taylor,  bishop    of  Lincoln.      2.    Ralph 
Baines,  bishop  Qf  Coyentry  and  Lichfield.     3.  George  Day,  bishop 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


142  HISTORY  OF  THE    .  a.d.  1509. 

of  Chichester.  4.  Thomas  Watson,  bishop  of  Lincohi.  5.  James 
PilkingtoD,  bishop  of  Duiham.  6.  Robert  Home,  bishop  of  Win- 
chester. 7.  Richard  Curteise,  bishop  of  Chichester.  8.  Tholnas 
Dames,  bishop  of  St.  Asaph.  9.  Richard  Houland,  bishop  of 
Peterborough.  10.  John  Still,  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells.  11.  John 
Coldwell,  bishop  of  Sarum.  12,  William  Morgan,  bishop  of  St. 
Asaph.  13.  Hugh  Billet,  bishop  of  Chester.  14.  Richard,  Vaughan, 
bishop  of  London.  15.  Richard  Neile,  archbishop  of  York.  16.  Tho- 
mas Morton,  bishop  of  Durham.  17.  John  Williams,  archbishop  of 
York.  18.  Richard  Senhouse,  bishop  of  Carlisle.  19.  David  Dal- 
bin,  bishop  of  Bangor. 

Leaened  Weitees.— 1.  Roger  Hutchinson.  2.  John  Seaton. 
3.  Ralph  Baines,  Professor  of  Hebrew  in  Paris.  4.  George  Bullock, 
the  author  of  Bullock's  "  Concordance.''  5.  Roger  Ascham.  6. 
William  Cecil,  lord  treasurer.  7.  William  Morgan,  who  first  trans- 
lated the  Bible  into  Welsh.  8.  John  Knewstubs.  9.  William 
Whitaker.     10.  Thomas  Morton. 

Livings  in  the  College  Gift. — 1.  Freshwater  tectory,  in 
the  diocess  of  Winchester,  valued  at  £ld.  &.  4d.  2.  Ospringe 
vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of  Canterbury,  valued  at  JBiO.  3.  Higham 
vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of  Canterbury,  valued  at  £8,  10s.  4. 
Thorington  [cmn  Prating]  rectory,  in  the  diocess  of  London, 
valued  at  ,£^16.  5.  Sunninghill  vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of  Salisbury, 
valued  at  — — .  6.  Aldworth  vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of  Salisbury. 
£S.  15s.  Qid. 

So  that  lately,  (namely,  anno  1634,)  there  were  in  this  College, 
one  Master,  fifty-four  Fellows,  four-score  and  eight  Scholars,  beside 
Officers  and  Servants  of  the  foundation,  with  other  Students ;  in 
all,  one  hundred  and  eighty-two. 

16,  17^  An  in/ant  BebeUion^  seasonably  crushed. 

Great  was  the  opposition  against  the  election  of  Dr.  Whitaker, 
the  sixteenth  Master  of  this  House,  fetched  from  Trinity  College. 
He  was  appointed  by  the  queen's  mandamus^  and  Dr.  Capcoat, 
Vice-Chancellor,  (and  Fellow  of  Trinity  College,)  went  along  with 
him  magna  comitante  caterta^  solemnly  to  induct  him  to  his  place, 
when  he  met  with  an  unexpected  obstruction.  Non  datur  pene- 
tratio  corportm.  The  gates  were  shut,  and  partly  man-ned^  partly 
bay-ed^  against  him.' 

The  Vice-Chancellor  retreated  to  Trinity  College ;  and,  consult- 
ing with  lawyers  what  was  to  be  done  in  the  case,  according  to  their 
advice,  created  Dr.  Whitaker  Master  of  St.  John's  in  bis  own 
,  chamber,  by  virtue  of  the  queen's  mandate.  This  done,  he  re- 
advanceth  to  St.  John's>  and  with  (as  I  may  say)  a  poese  academiof^ 


Digiti 


izedbyL^OOgle 


I BENET  yiii.  UNIV8RSITT  OF  CAMBRIDGB.  143 

demands  admission.  The' Johnians,  haying  intelligence  by  their 
emissaries,  that  the  pzopertj  of  the  peison  vas  altered,  and  Dr. 
Whitaker  invested  in  their  Mastership,  and  knowing  the  queen 
would  midntain  her  power  from  her  crown  to  her  foot,  took  wit  in 
their  anger,  and  peaceably  received  him.  However,  great  the  heart- 
burnings in  this  Honse  for  many  years  after ;  and  I  will  run  the 
hazard  of  the  readar^s  displeasure  in  transmitting  the  following  story 
to  posterity. 

18—23.  A  BahMl  to  he  chosen  before  a  Dunee.  The  first  [and} 
second  Becuons,  An  ingenuous  Master  well  met  with  an 
ingenuous  FeUow.     Well  spoken^  well  taken. 

A  senior  Fellow  of  St.  John^s,  (of  the  opposite  fiustion  to  the 
Master,)  in  the  presence  of  Dr.  Wbitaker,  falling  on  this  subject, 
(proper  enough  to  his  text,)— what  requisites  should  qualify  a 
Scholar  for  a  Fellowship,  concluded  that  religion  and  learning 
were  of  the  quorum  for  that  purpose.  Hence  he  proceeded  to  put 
the  case, — if  one  of  these  qualities  alone  did  appear,  whether  a  reli- 
gious dunce  were  to  be  chosen  before  a  learned  rakehell ;  and 
resolved  it  in  fitvour  of  the  latter. 

This  he  endeavoured  to  prove  with  two  arguments  ;  whereof  this 
the  first :  ^^  Because  religion  may—- but  learning  cannot— be  coun- 
terfeited. Ood  only  can  discover  the  gracious  heart,  but  men  may 
descry  an  able  head.  He  that  chooseth  a  learned  rakehell  is  sure 
of  something;  but  whoso  electeth  a  religious  dunce  may  have 
nothing  worthy  his  choice,  seeing  the  same  may  prove  both  dunce 
and  hypocrite.'' 

His  second  reason  was :  ^^  Because  there  was  more  probability  of 
a  rakehelFs  improvement  unto  temperance,  than  of  a  dunce's  con- 
version into  a  learned  man,  seeing  such  an  one,  radicated  and  habit- 
uated, is  unchangeable  without  miracle." 

Common-place  ended,  Dr.  Whitaker  desired  the  company  of  this 
Fellow,  and  in  his  closet  thus  accosted  him  :  ^'  Sir,  I  hope  I  may 
say  without  offence,  as  once  Isaac  to  Abraham,  Here  is  wood  and  a 
knijhy  but  where  is  the  lamb  for  the  burnt  offering  ?  You  have 
discovered  much  keenness  of  language,  and  fervency  of  affection ; 
but  who  is  the  person  you  aim  at  who  hath  offered  abuse  to  this 
Society?'' 

The  other  answered :  "  If  I  may  presume  to  follow  your  meta- 
phor, know.  Sir,  (though  I  am  a  true  admirer  of  your  most  eminent 
worth,)  you  are  the  sacrifice  I  reflected  at  in  my  discourse.  For, 
(whilst  ypu  follow  your  studies,  and  remit  matters  to  be  managed 
by  others,)  a  company  is  chosen  into  the  College  of  more  zeal  than 
knowledge,  whose  judgments  we  certainly  know  to  be  bad,  though 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


14t  HISTORY  OF  THM  a.d.  1618. 

others  charitably  believe  the  goodness  *of  their  affections.    And 
hence  (of  late)  a  general  decay  of  learning  in  the  College." 

The  Doctor  turned  his  anger  into  thankfulness ;  and  expressed 
the  same,  both  in  loving  his  person,  and  practising  his  advice,  pro- 
mising his  own  presence  hereafter  in  all  elections,  and  that  none 
should  be  admitted  without  bis  own  examination ;  which  quickly 
recovered  the  credit  of  this  House,  replenished  with  hopeful  plants 
before  his  death. 

24.  Confess^  and  be  forgiven. 

And  thus  I  take  my  farewell  of  St.  John's  College,  having  first 
confessed  a  mistake  formerly  committed  in  my  "  Holy  State,''  *  in 
making  Dr.  Walter  Haddon,  (Master  of  the  Requests  to  queen 
Elizabeth,)  a  meyiber  of  this  College,  being  originally  of  King's 
College,  afterward  of  Trinity  Hall.  The  error  arose,  because 
Roger  A8cham,-f-  of  this  House,  commonly  calleth  him  nostrum 
Eaddonum ;  where  I  mistook  their  familiarity  for  membership  in 
the  same  Society. 

Thomas  Thompson,  Vice-ChanceDor ;  John  Samson  and  John 
Scot,  Proctors;  John  Bury,  Mayor;  Doctors  of  Physic,  2; 
Bachelors  of  Divinity,  5 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  29 ;  Master  of 
Grammar,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  16 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  42. 
A.  JD.  1509-10. 

Seeing  the  Vice -Chancellors  are  chosen  in  November,  so  tbat  in 
their  office  they  partake  of  two  years  of  the  Lord,  (though  otherwise 
but  one  annual  employment,)  I  though  fit  henceforward  to  divide 
them  in  our  chronology  into  two  years. 

Thomas  Thompson,  Vice-Chancellor ;  George  Thottipson  and 
Christopher  Ducket,  Proctors  ;  John  Erlich,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of 

Divinity,  5 ;    Incorp.  1 ;    Doctors    of   Canon  Law,  7 ; 

Doctors  of  Civil  Law,  2 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  11 ;  Masters 
of  Arts,  26;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  22;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  44. 
1510-11. 

John  Fawne,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Richard  Standbank  and  William 
Chaundler,  Proctors ;  John  Bell,  Mayor  ;  Doctors  of  Divinity,  3 ; 
Doctor  of  Civil  Law,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  5  ;  Masters 
of  Arts,  21 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  16 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  32. 
1511-12. 

John  Fawne,  Vice-Chancellor;  Roger  Collingwood  and  Richard 
Master,  Proctors ;  William  Barber,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divinity, 
2 ;  Doctor  of  Civil  Law,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  5  ;  Masters 
of  Arts,  21;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  7;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  52. 
1512-13. 

•  In  the  Life  of  Dr.  Medcalfe.  t  In  Ms  Epistles. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


10hb»ry  VIII.  UNIVBRSmr  OF  CAMBRIDOB.  145 

John  Eccleston,  Vice-chancellor ;  Ricbaid  Nonris  anft  Thomas 
Marten,  Pioctors ;  Hugh  Chapman,  Mayor ;  Doctors  oF  Divinity, 
3 ;  Doctor  of  Civil  Law,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  10 ;  Masters 
of  Art^  25 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  10 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  24 ; 
Bachelor  of  Grammar,  1.    1513-14. 

John  Eccleston,  Vice-chancellor;  John  Cotting  and  Thomas 
Goodrick,  Proctors ;  Hugh  Chapman,  Mayor ;  Doctor  of  Divinity, 
1;  Doctors  of  Canon  Law,  3 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  5 ;  Masters 
of  Arts,  14 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  13 ;  Bachelor  of  Music,  1 ; 
fiachelors  of  Arts,  30 ;  Bachelors  of  Grammar,  2.    1514-15. 

Rob^  Dussin,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Rowland  Bodron  and  Rei- 
oald  Bainbrigg,  Proctors;  Hugh  Raukin,  Mayor;  Doctors  of 
Divinity,  10 ;  Doctors  of  Canon  Law,  2 ;  Doctors  of  Civil  Law, 
2;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  18 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  42 ;  Masters  of 
Grammar,  3;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  — »;  Bachelors  of  Music,  — ; 
Bachelors  of  Arts,  — .    1515-16. 

Edmund  Nateres,  Vice-Chancellor ;  John  Copinger  and  Gilbert 
Latham,  Proctors ;  John  Bury,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divinity,  5  ; 
Doctors  of  Civil  Law,  2 ;  Doctor  of  Physic,  1 ;  Bachelors  of 
Divinity,  13 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  29 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  14 ;  Bache- 
lore  of  Arts,  43.    1516-17. 

Edmund  Nateres,  Vice-Chancellor ;  William  Cocks  and  Roger 
Ashe,  Proctors;  William  Barber,  Mayor;  Doctors  of  Divinity,  3; 
Doctors  of  Canon  Law,  2 ;  Doctors  of  Civil  Law,  1 ;  Bachelors  of 
Divinity,  4 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  13 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  11 ;  Bache« 
lore  of  Arts,  41.    1517-18. 

25, 26.  Pe^er  de  Valence  eopeammuniecUed.   Many  Years  after ^  h& 
oan/eM^h  hi$  Fault. 

About  this  time  one  Peter  de  Valence,  a  Norman,  was  a  Student 
'n  Cambridge,  when  the  papist  indulgences  were  solemnly  set  upon  the 
school-gates,  over  which  he  wrote  these  words  :  Beattis  mr  cujtis  est 
f^onien  Domini  spes  ejns^  et  non  respeait  vanitates^  et  insanias 
fokas  (istasX  Inquiry  was  made  about  the  party,  but  no  disco-* 
Tery  could  be  made.  Whereupon  bishop  Fisher,  Chancellor  of  the 
University,  solemnly  proceeded  to  his  excommunication,  which  he  is 
said  to  perform  with  tears  and  great  gravity. 

This  Peter  afterward  applied  himself  to  Dr.  Goodrich,  bishop  of 
%9  and  became  his  servant ;  but,  as  the  papists  report,  could 
i^ever  be  quiet  ia  his  mind,  until,  many  years  after,  he  had  publicly 
confessed  his  folly  therein,  and  upon  the  same  place  of  the  school-. 
g*tes  fixed  a  paper  with  these  words :  Ddicta  juventutis  mece^  et 
^norantias  ne  memineris^  Domine :  *'  Remember  not,  Lord,  my 

^  Digitized  by  Google 


146  HISTORY  or  THE  a.d.  1522. 

sins,  nor  the  ignorances  of  my  youth**"  *  But,  may  the  reader  take 
notice,  thk  story  is  related  by  Richard  Hall,  a  zealous  papist,  in 
his  Life  of  bijshop  Fisher :  a  book  which,  when  lately  in  manu- 
script, I  then  more  prized  for  the  rarity,  than  since  it  is' now  printed 
I  trust  for  the  verity^  thereof. 

John  Watson,  Vice-Chancellor ;  William  &nith  and  Jolin 
Cheswright,  Proctors  ;  William  Barber,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divi- 
nity, 10;  Doctors  of  Canon  Law,  3 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  11 ; 
Masters  of  Arts,  26;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  26  ;  Bachelors  of  Arts, 
38.    A.D.  1518-19. 

27.  Monks*  turned  into  Btwkingham  CoUege* 
Monks^  College  this  jrefwp  had  its  name  altered  and  condition 
improved.  Formerly  it  was  a  place  where  many  monks  lived,  on 
the  charge  qf  their  respective  convents,  being  very  fit  for  solitary 
persons  by  the  situation  thereof.  For  it  stood  on  the  trans-Cantine 
side,  an  anchoret  in  itself,  severed  by  the  river  from  the  rest  of 
the  University*  Here  the  monks,  some  seven  years  since,  had  once 
and  agam  lodged  and  feasted  Edward  Stafford,  the  last  duke  of 
Buckingham  of  that  family.  Great  men  best  may— good  men 
always  will — ^be  grateful  guests  to  such  as  entertain  them.  Both 
qualifications  met  in  this  duke ;  and  then  no  wonder  if  he  largely 
requited  his  welcome.  He  changed  the  name  of  the  HoHse  into 
Buckingham  JJollege,  began  to  build,  and  purposed  to  endow  the 
sanie,  no  4oubt>  in  some  proportion  to  his  own  high  and  rich 
estate. 

Edmund  Nateres,  Vice-Chancellor ;  John  Denny  and  William 
Meddotr,  Proctors  ;  Richard  Clark,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divinity, 
5 ;  Doctor  of  Canon  Law,  1 ;  Doctor  of  Civil  Law,  1 ;  Bache- 
lors of  Divinity,  20 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  23  ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  19 ; 
Bachelors  of  Arts,  31.     a.  d.  1519-20. 

28.  J.  Pair  of  learned  Writers, 

Two  en^jnent  men  are  assigned,  by  a  good  author,  at  this  time 
to  flourish  in  Cambridge:  The  one  William  Gonel,  a  friend 
to  Erasnjus,  and  here  public  Professor,  saith  Pits  :  +  but,  would  he 
had  told  us  of  what  faculty  f  But  probably  "  public  Professor,^'  in 
the  lax  acceptation  of  that  title,  importeth  no  more  than  an  ordinary 
Doctor.  We  need  not  question  his  sufficiency,  when  we  fitod  sir 
Thomas  More  (an  Oxford-man,  and  able  judge  of  merit)  select  him 
for  tutor  to  his  children.  The  other,  Stephen  Baron,  Provincial  of 
the  Franciscans,  and  Confessor,  saith  one, J  to  king  Henry  VIII. 

.  •  See  « the  Life  of  bishop  Fisher,"  lately  printed,  page  23.  t  /»  .^ppendict 

JUmtrium  Anglioi  ScHptorum.  J  Idem,  page  696,  in  anno  1620. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQ l€  ' 


Mhenetviii.  university  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  147 

Some  will  scarce  believe  this,  onl j  because  about  this  time  they  find 
Longland,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  perfonning  that  place ;  except  king 
Henrj,  as  he  had  many  fitults,  had  many  Confessors  at  once.  But 
this  Baion  might  have  this  office  some  years  since.  Let  me  here 
without  offence  remember  that  the  senior  yicar  (as  I  take  it)  of  the  < 
king's  chapel,  is  called  ^*  the  Confessor  of  the  king^s  Household,^ 
which  p»x;hance  hath  caused  some  mistakes  herein. 

Thomas  Stacktiouse,  yice-Chancellor ;  Richard  Frank  and  John 
Crayford,  Proctors ;  Richard  Clark,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divinity, 
9;  Doctors  of  Canon  Law,  3 ;  Doctor  of  Civil  Law,  1 ;  Bachelors 
of  Divinity,  5  ;  Masters  of  Arts,  21 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  7  ;  Bache- 
lors of  Arts,  20.    A.  D.  1520-21. 

29.  Tke  untimely  Death  of  the  Duke  of  Buckingham. 

Edward  Stafford,  duke  of  Buckingham,  a  gentleman  rather  yain 
than  wicked,  guilty  more  of  indiscretion  than  disloyalty,  by  the 
pmctice  of  cardinal  Wolsey  lost  his  life,  and  was  beheaded.  May 
17th.  Charles  V.  ^nperor,  being  informed  of  his  death,  said  that 
a  batcher^s  dog  (such  Wosley^s  extraction)  had  killed  the  fairest 
Buck  in  England.*  Let  Oxford,  then,  commend  the  memory  of 
tlis  cardintil,  for  founding  a  fair  College  therein ;  Cambridge  hath 
more  cause  to  complain  of  him,  who  hindered  her  of  a  hopeful 
foundation.  For,  this  duke,  surprised  with  death,  built  but  little^ 
and  endowed  nothing  considerably  in  this  Buckingham  College. 
No  wonder  to  such  who  consider,  that,  prevented  with  an  unex* 
pected  end,  he  finished  not  his  own  House,  but  only  **  brought  the 
sumptuous  and  stately  foundation  thereof  above  groutid  at  Thom- 
buiy  in  Gloucestershire.**'  -f"  Afterwards,  in  commiseration  of  this 
orphan  College,  several  convents  built  chambers  therein.  But, 
^ore  of  it  hereafter  in  Magdalen  College. 

John  Edmunds,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Nicholas  Rowley  and  John 
Stafford,  Proctors  ;  Robert  Smith,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divinity,  6 ; 
Doctor  of  Canon  Law,  1 ;  Doctor  of  Civil  Law,  1 ;  Bachelors 
of  Divinity,  19 ;    Masters  of  Arts,  22  ;    Bachelors  of  Laws,  6 ; 

fiichelors  of  Arts,  40.    a.  d.  1621-22. 

»  . 

30.  CrooVs  Character. 

Richard  Crook  was  the  first  who  now  brought  Greek  into  request 
in  the  University.  He  was  bwn  in  London,  bred  in  King's  Col- 
V>  vhere,  awno  1506,  he  was  admitted  Scholar.J      Then,  travel- 

"  OoDwiK,  in  Heniy  VIII.  t  Camdbn's  BrUanmay  ibidem.  t  ms. 

Hatcher. 

L    2  Digitized  by  Google 


148  HISTORY  OF  THE  A.o.  1625. 

ling  beyond  the  seas,  he  became  public  Reader  of  Greek  at  Leipeic 
in  Germany.  After  his  return,  by  the  persuasion  of  bishop  Fisher, 
Chancellor  of  Cambridge,  he  professed  therein  the  Greek  language. 
All  Students  equally  contributed  to  his  lectures,  whether  they  heard 
or  heard  them  not,*  (as  in  Dutch  ordinaries,  all  guests  pay  alike  for 
the  wine,  though  they  drink  it  not,f)  because  they  were,  or  should 
be,  present  thereat.  Crook  dedicated  his  first  public  speech,  made 
in  praise  of  the  Gbeek  tongue,  to  Nicholas  West,  bishop  of  Ely, 
because  Cambridge  (understand  him  of  all  the  parish-chuiches 
therein)  is  of  his  juriisdiction  :— «  passage  impertinently  pressed  by 
the  Oxford  antiquary,  J  to  prove  this  University  under  his  episcopal 
power,  as  being  in,  not  of^  Ely  diocess ;  exempted  from  it,  though 
surrounded  with  it.  Crook  was  also  chosen  the  first  public  Orator, 
a  place  of  more  honour  than  profit,  whose  original  salary  was  but 
40«.  per  anntem.§ 

Thomas  Green,  Yice-ChanceDor ;  Robert  Dent  and  John  Biig- 
anden,  Proctors ;  George  Hoyster,  Mayor.  ||  He  was  excommuui- 
cated  for  his  obstinacy  towards  the  deputy  of  the  Vice-Chancellor. 
Doctors  of  Divinity,  5 ;  Doctors  of  Canon  Law,  2 ;  Masters  of 
Arts,  22 ;  Bachelor  of  Arts,  46.    a.  d.  1522-23. 

31.  A  Catalogue  of  Cambridge  Orators. 

It  will  not  be  amiss  here  to  present  the  reader  with  a  list  of  tlic 
University-Orators. 

Orators. — ^1.  Richard  Crook,  chosen  a.d.  1522.  2.  George 
Day,  Fellow  of  King's  College,  1628.  3.  John  Redman,  of 
King's  Hall,  1537.  4.  Thomas  Smith,  Fellow  of  Queen's  Col- 
lege, 1538.  5.  Roger  Ascham,  FeDow  of  St.  John's  College, 
1547.  .  6.  Thomas  Gardiner,  Fellow  of  King's  College,  1554. 
7.  John  Stokes,  of  the  same,  1557.  8.  George  Ackworth,  1560. 
».  Anthony  Girlington,  Fellow  of  Pembroke  Hall,  1661.  10- 
Andrew  Oxenbridge,  Fellow  of  Trinity  College,  1562.  11.  Wil- 
liam Masters,  Fellow  of  King's  College,  1564,  12.  Thomas  Bing, 
Fellow  of  Peter  House,  1564.  13.  William  Lewin,  Fellow  of 
Christ's  College,  1570.  14.  John  Beacon,  Fellow  of  St.  John's 
College,  1571.  15.  Richard  Bridgewater,  Fellow  of  King's  Col- 
l^je,  1573.  16.  Anthony  Wingfield,  Fellow  of  Trinity  College, 
1580;  and  re-admitted  1586.  17.  Henry  Mountlow,  Fellow  of 
King's  College,  1580.  18.  Robert  Naunton,  Fellow  of  Trinity 
College,  1595.     19.  Francis  Nethersole,  Fellow  of  Trinity  Col- 

.    •  EpUtola  Thoma  Mori  ad  Academkm  0mm.  t  Ekasmt  CoUoquia  in 

Diverwrio,  X  Brian  Twymb.  «  Caics,  HUloria  Caniab,  Acmd,  lib.  U. 

page  129.  )|  mb.  CoUeg,  OofporU^Chruii, 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


J7  HBHBT  Viii.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  149 

l^fe,  1611.  20.  George  Herbert,  Fellow  of  Trinity  College, 
1618.  21.  Robert  Creighton,  Fellow  of  Trinity  College,  1627. 
22.  Henry  Molle,  Fellow  of  King's  College.  23.  Ralpb  Wither- 
ington,  Fellow  of  Christ's  College. 

True  it  is,  that  before  the  solemn  founding  of  the  Orator's  office 
some  were  procured  on  occasion  to  discharge  the  same.  Thus  we  find 
one  Caius  Auberinns,  an  Italian,  (for  that  age  indifferently  learned,) 
who  (some  twenty  years  since)  had  twenty  pence  a-piece  for  every 
Latin  letter  which  he  wrote  for  the  University.*  Henceforth  we 
had  one  standing  Orator,  whose  place  was  assigned  unto  him  next 
UDto  the  Doctors  of  Physic. 

Henry  Bullock,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Robert  Aldriche  and  Anthony 
Maxwell,  Proctors ;  Thomas  Brakin,  Mayor ;  Bachelors  of  Divi- 
nity, 12 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  28 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  9 ;  Bachelors 
of  Arts,  40.    1523-24. 

S2.  Bihiey's  Scruphin  Cofucience. 

Thomas  Bilney,  Fellow  of  Trinity  Hall,  zealously  advanced  true 
religion.-|-  To  the  study  of  Canon  and  Civil  Law,  wherein  he  was 
gxaduated,  he  added  a  third,  (worth  both  the  former,)  his  study  in 
God's  Law  and  the  Holy  Scriptures.  Once,  travelling  in  the 
country,  he  chanced  to  come  to  a  poor  cure,  belonging  to  Trinity 
Hall,  where  the  people,  unprovided  of  a  preacher,  pressed  him  to 
give  them  some  instruction.  Bilney  had  ability,  but  no  authority, 
to  teach  them,  as  tlien  prohibited  by  the  churdb.  Yet  their  want 
60  wrought  on  his  charity,  that  for  the  present  he  gave  them  a  colla^ 
tion.  This  good  man,  afterwards  a  Martyr,  (the  most  tender  to  sin 
are  the  most  hardy  to  suffer,)  was  much  troubled  in*conscience  for 
his  contempt  of  church-order.^  How  many  now-a-days  without 
any  regret  turn  pieSSm  without  any  commission  from  the  church  ! 
It  is  suspicious,  on  the  likcf  occasion,  some  would  scarce  follow 
Bilney  to  the  stake,  who  run  so  far  before  him  into  the  pulpit. 

Edmund  Nateres,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Edmund  Stretey  and  Tho< 
mas  Briggs,  Proctors;  Richard  Woolf,  Mayor;  Doctors  of 
Divinity,  7 ;  Doctor  of  Canon  Law,  1 ;  Doctors  of  Civil  Law,  2 ; 
Masters  of  Arts,  25 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  13 ;  Bachelors  of  Civil 
Law,  3 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  40.    a.d.  1524-25« 

33.  Tico  apporite  ParAe^for  and  against  Stiperetition. 

Now  was  there  high  and  stiff  banding  in  the  schools  and  pulpits 
^twixtthe 

*  MS.  CoiUy.  Corpwu-ChrUH.  t  Fox's  <'  Aets  and  Monnmeiiti."  t  J4em^ 

PV  1013. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ISO 


HISTORY  OF  THE 


A.D.152S. 


OPPOSBRS  OF  TH£  PROTEST- 
ANT RELIGION.: 

1.  Henry  Bullock,  (his  friend 
Erasmus  calls  him  BoviUum^)  of 
Queen's  College. 

2.  Mr.  Hugh  Latimer,  of 
Christ's  College,  the  Cross- 
keeper  of  the  University ;  which 
he  solemnly  brought  forth  on 
procession-days.  He  exhorted 
the  scholars  not  to  believe  one 
word  of  what  Mr.  StaflTord  did 
read  or  preach. 

3.  Edmund  Nateres,  Vice- 
Chancellor,  Master  of  Gonville 
Hall;  and,  generally,  all  the 
Heads  of  Houses. 


AND 


ADVANCERS  OF  THE 
6AMK* 


1.  Dr.  Foreman,  of  Queen's 
College,  who  therein  concealed 
and  kept  Luther's  books  when 
sought  for  to  be  burnt. 

2.  Mr.  Stafford,  Divinity. 
Reader.  Let  me  conjecture 
him  (for  the  founder's  name- 
sake) of  Buckingham  College. 


3.  Doctor  Thissel,  (as  Mr. 
Fox  writes  him,)  of  Pembroke 
Hall.  The  same,  no  doubt, 
with  John  ThixtO,  diosen  Fel- 
low there  1519,  whom  Caius 
calls  hominem  sinfftdaris  erudi- 
tionis  ncetrd  fnemorid^  insomuch 
that  his  *Amos  i^  was  authen- 
tical  in  the  Schools. 


Edmund  Nateres,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Gulielmus  Duplake  and 
Thomas  Harwood,  Proctors ;  Thomas  Saye,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of 
Divinity,  2;  Doctor  of  Medicine,  1;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  2; 
Masters  of  Arts,  23 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  3 ;  BachelMS  of  Civil 
Law,  3 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  .42.    a.d.  1525-26. 

34 — 36.  Latimer  canwrted  by  Bilney.  [^Oranmer  ejected  fnm  hU 
Feliowehip  f&r  being  married,]  Orook^  ovd-boughiy  departed 
to  Oxford, 

Bilncy,  observing  in  Latimer  misguided  zeal,  repaired  to  his 
chamber,  and  desired  him  to  hear  his  Confession.  The  hearing 
whereof  (improved  by  God's  Spirit)  so  wrought  on  Latimer,  that, 
of  almost  a  persecutor,  he  became  a  zealous  promoter  of  the  truth. 
Then,  going  to  Mr.  Stafford,  he  solemnly  asked  him  forgiveness  for 
his  former  fierce  and  causeless  Airy  against  him.* 

Thomas  Cranmer  was  outed  of  his  Fellowship  in  Jesus  College 
for  being  married.-f  His  wife  was  kinswoman  to  the  hostess  at  the 
Dolphin,  which,  causing  his  frequent  repair  thither,  gave  the  occasion 


*  Fox's  **  Acts  and  Monumcnte,"  page  1/31. 


t  Idemy  page  1860. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


» BBiTBr  VIII.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  151 

to  that  impudent  lie  of  ignorant  papists,  that  he  was  an  ostler. 
Indeed,  with  his  learned  lectures,  he  rubbed  the  galled  backs,  and 
earned  the  lazy  hides,  of  many  an  idle  and  ignorant  friar,  being 
now  made  Diyinity- Reader  in  Backingham  College.  But,  soon 
afler,  his  wife  dying  within  the  year,  being  a  widower,  he  was 
re-elected  into  Jesus  College.  I  know  the  statutes  of  some  Houses 
nm  thus,  Ifolumus  Sodas  natros  esse  maritos^  vd  maritatos.  It 
seems  this  last  barbarous  word  was  not,  or  was  not  taken  notice  of, 
10  Jesus-College  statutes.  Cranmer  herein  is  a  precedent  by  him- 
self, if  that  may  be  a  precedent  which  hath  none  to  follow  it. 

John  Edmunds,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Nin.  Shafto  and  Jacobus  Hul- 
ton,  Proctors ;  Henry  Gilson,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divinity,  5 ; 
Doctors  of  Canon  L&w,  2;. Doctor  of  Civil  Law,  1;  Doctor  of 
Medicine,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  6 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  21 ; 
Bachelors  of  Laws,  14 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  82.     a.d.  1526-27. 

Ridiard  Crook,  University-Orator  and  Greek-Professor,  (invited 
with  more  large  and  liberal  conditions,)  leaving  Cambridge,  removed 
to  Oxford.  Yet  this  honourable  proviso  is  entered  in  our  Orators^ 
book,  ^^  that,  in  case  Crook  should  ever  be  pleased  to  return,  he,  for 
the  good  service  by  him  performed,  should  have  the  precedency  of 
all  Cambridge  Orators.^  Great  the  antipathy  betwixt  Crook  and 
Leland  the  afitiquary,  whose  differences  began  with  generous  emula^ 
tion  betwixt  two  eminent  competitors  of  learned  honour,  but  festered, 
into  envy,  not  to  say  malicious  detraction. 

37.  The  Privilege  of  the  University. 

Dr.  Cliffe,  Chancellor  of  Nicholas  West,  bishop  of  Ely,  humbly 
submitted  himself,  and  craved  pardon  for  his  rashness,*  because  he 
had  excommunicated  a  Bachelor  of  Arts,  contrary  to  the  express 
privities  of  the  University.  The  fiimiliarity  betwixt  Bilney  and 
Latimer  daily  increased;  their  meeting-place,  nigh  Cambridge, 
being  called  *^the  Hetetics^  Walk.**^  My  inquiry  can  discover  no 
footsteps  thereof,  on  which  side  of  the  town  it  lay. 

John  Edmunds,  Vioe-Chancellor ;  Thomas  Smith  and  John 
Brewer,  Proctors;  Edward  Slegg,  Mayor;  Doctor  of  Divinity,  1; 
Doctor  of  Canon  Law,  1 ;  Doctors  of  Civil  Law,  4 ;  Doctor  of 
Medicine,  1 ;  Bachelor^  of  Divinity,  6  ;•  Masters  of  Arts,  20 ; 
Bachelors  of  Laws,  5  ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  26 ;  Bachelors  of  Gram- 
mar, 2.    A.D.  1527-28. 

S8.  Latimer''s  Sermon  of  Cards. 
Now,  many  and  fierce  the  conflicts  of  Friars  against  Mr.  Lati« 
mcr,  especially  after  he  had  preached  st  St.  Edward's,  (the  Sunday 

•  MS.  Coiiesfii  Corporit-ChriHi, 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


152  HISTORY  OF  TUB  a.  D.  1630, 

befoie  ChristmaB,)  on  the  question  of  the  priests,  to  the  Baptist, 
(parcel  of  the  Gospel  appointed  for  the  day,)  John  i.  19,  Tu  guis 
08?  "  Who  art  thou  ?^  It  seems,  he  suited  his  sermon  rather  to 
the  time  than  the  text,  thereby  taking  occasion  to  conform  his  dis- 
course, to  the  playing  at  cards,  making  the  Heart  triumph,*  and 
exhorting  all  to  serve  God  in  sincerity  and  truth,  not  in  the  glister- 
ing show  of  men''s  ceremonies,  traditions,  pardons,  pilgrimages, 
vows,  devotions,  &c.  Now,  show  me  not  the  sermon,  but  show  me 
the  souls  converted  thereby.  This  blunt  preaching  was  in  those  dark 
days  admirably  effectual,  which  would  justly  be  ridiculous  in  our 
age.  I  remember  in  my  time  a  country-minister  preached  at  St. 
Mary's ;  his  text,  Rom.  xii.  3,  "  As  God  hath  dealt  to  every 
man  a  measure  of  faith.**^  In  a  fond  imitation  of  Latimefs  card- 
sermon,  he  prosecuted  the  metaphor  of  dealinff^  that  men  should 
play  above-board^  that  is,  avoid  all  dissembling,  not  pocket  cards^ 
but  improve  their  gifts  and  graces,  follow  suii^  wear  the  surplice, 
and  conform  in  ceremonies,  &c.  All  produced  nothing  but  laughter 
in  the  audience.  Thus  the  same  actions  are,  by  several  persons  and 
times,  made  not  the  same  actions,  yea,  differenced  from  commendable 
discretion. to  ridiculous  absurdity.  And  thus  he  will  make  but  bad 
music,  who  hath  the  instrument  and  fiddlestick,  but  none  of  the 
rosin,  of  Mr.  Latimer. 

•  William  Buckmaster,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Rowland  Swinbom  and 
John  Blith,  Proctors;  Thomas  Brakin,  Mayor;  Doctors  of 
Divinity,  2 ;  Doctors  of  Canon  Law,  3 ;  Bachelor  of  Divinity,  1 ; 
Masters  of  Arts,  13 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  II ;  Bachelors  of  Arts, 
40.    A.D.152&-29. 

39.  A  suspeOed  (if  not  afahe)  Beport^ 
I  cannot  believe,  (except  on  better  evidence  than  the  bare  testi- 
mony of  one  an  engaged  person,-f")  what  I  find  reported,  that  about 
this  time  certain  Cambridge-men  went  to  Oxford,  being  GrcBcUatU 
Aogtes,  "  hearty  haters  of  the  Greek  tongue.*"  They  called  them- 
aelves  by  the  names  of  doughty  Trojans,  Priam  and  Hector,  con- 
demning all  other  for  arrogant  and  perfidious  Greeks. 

•40 — 42.  [Cranm&r  retires  to  WaUham  on  account  of  the  Plague. 
OfichM  Mr.  Stqford  dies.]  Mr.  Siqford  possibly  Maryarei 
Professor. 

Thomas  Cramner,  now  Doctor  in  Divinity,  was  grown  into  so 
great  an  esteem  for  his  learning,  that  he  was  made  by  the  University 
one  of  the  examiners  of  their  sufficiency  who  commenced  therein, 

•  See  it  at  large  in  Mr.  Fox.       *  f  Brian  Twyne,  -^it/iV.  Jcad.  0»on. 

-6  364. 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


n  HKNftT  viii.  UNIVJSRSITT  or  CAMBBIDOE.  IAS 

uotil  a  grievous  plague,  this  year  happening  in  the  UniTenitj,  left 
the  CoU^^es  almost  empty,  and  forced  him  to  remove  wiUi  his 
prime  pnpils  to  Waltham.  And  here  we  surrender  him  up  to  our 
former  *^  Church  History,^  ^here  we  firom  this  time  forward  hare 
given  a  ]aige  account  of  his  conversation.* 

John  Watson,  Vice-chancellor;  John  Linsey  and  Thomas 
Wilson,  Proctors;  William  Synderton,  Mayor;  Doctors  of 
Divinity,  6 ;  Doctors  of  Civil  Law,  2 ;  Doctor  of  Medicine,  1 ; 
Mastos  of  Arts,  8 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  15 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts, 
37.     A.D.  1529u30.  - 

Last  yearns  sickness  still  continued  in  Cambridge ;  amongst 
many  that  died  thereof,  Mr.  Stafford,  Divinity-Reader,  ended  his 
life,  and  that  on  this  occasion  :  The  plague  being  sore  in  the  town, 
amongst  others,  a  certain  priest,  called  sir  Henry  Conjurer,  lay  sore 
sick  of  the  said  plague.  Mr.  Stafford,  hearing  thereof,  and  seeing 
the  horrible  danger  that  his  soul  was  in,  was  so  moved  in  conscience 
to  help  the  dangerous  case  of  the  priest,  that  he,  neglecting  his  own 
bodily  death,  to  recover  the  other  from  eternal  damnation,  came 
unto  him,  exhorted  and  so  laboured  him,  that  he  would  not  leave 
him  before  he  had  converted  him,  and  saw  his  conjuring  books 
burned  before  his  face;  which  being  done,  Mr.  Stafford  went 
home,  and  immediately  sickened,  and  shortly  after  most  Christianly 
deceased.f    Thus  a  life  is  well  lost  whereby  a  soul  is  saved. 

I  dare  not  affirm  that  this  Mr.  Stafford  was  Margaret  Pro« 
fessor  in  Cambridge,  though  something  might  move  me  to  this  con* 
jecture ;  for  at  this  time  there  was  no  other  public  lectiure  founded 
in  the  University.  Nor  can  a  negative  argument  to  the  contrary 
be  justly  deduced  irom  the  omission  of  his  name  in  the  catalogue  of 
her  Professors,  which  all  must  acknowledge  to  be  very  imperfect. 
Yet  more  probably  he  was  a  volunteer  in  his  lecture,  having  no 
salary  for  the  reading  thereof,  save  God's  glory,  his  own  credit,  and 
the  profit  of  others.  And  so  we  take  our  leave  of  him ;  some 
months  after  whose  death,  at  the  coming-in  of  cold  weather,  the  air 
was  cleared,  and  Cambridge,  free  from  infection,  was  restored  to  her 
former  healthfulness. 

43.  Bennety  a  Martyr  of  Cambridffe. 

Thomas  Bennet  was  this  year  martyred  in  Exeter.  At  the  stake 
he  was  uiged  by  two  gentlemen  of  that  county,  standing  by,  to  say, 
Precor  SancUim  Mariam^  et  omnea  sanetoe  Dei^  ^e.  Probably  the 
pronouncing  so  much  might  have  prevailed  for  his  pardon :  but  he 
refused  to  save  his  life  on  the  price  of  superstition*    I  insert  him 

*SeevoL  ii.  pp.  26^401.— Edit.  t  Fox's  <<  Acts  and  Monuments/' 

page  1013. 

Digitized  by  LjOOQIC 


154  HISTORY  OF  THB  a.d.  1532. 

here  in  our  Hifitory  of  the  Uniyersitj,  (not  because,  as  many  more 
martyrs,  he  commenced  Master  of  Arts  therein,  bnt,)  chiefly 
because  he  was  bom  in  the  town  of  Cambridge.^ 

John  Watson,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Thomas  Blyth  and  Robert 
Masterman,  Proctors  ;  John  Chapman,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divin- 
ity, 4 ;  Doctors  of  Civil  Law,  2 ;  Doctors  of  Medicine,  2 ;  Badie- 
lors  of  Divinity,  10 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  17 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  11 ; 
Bachelors  of  Arts,  28.    a.  d.  1530-31. 

Simon  Heynes,  Vice-Chancellor ;  William  Cake  and  John  Tay* 

•lor.  Proctors ;    William  Gill,  Mayor ;    Doctors  of   Divinity,  3 ; 

Doctor  of  Canon  Law,  1 ;  Doctor  of  Civil  Law,  1 ;  Bachdors  of 

Divinity,  15 ;    Masters  of   Arts,  28  ^    Bachelors  of   Laws,  12 ; 

Bachelors  of  Arts,  43.    1531^2. 

44 — 49.  A  doughty  Pair  of  Challengers^  weU  worsted  for  their 
Fains,  They  retwrn  with  Shame.  The  Beport  quaiified. 
A  causeless  Jeer*    More  Modesty  argues  not  less  Learning. 

This  year  two  Oxford-men,  the  one  George  Throgmorton,  the 
other  John  Ascwell,-f-  came  to  Cambridge,  having  much  learning  in 
their  .heads,  (but  needing  to  have  brought  more  in  their  portman- 
teaus,) challenging  all  the  University  of  Cambridge  to  dispute  with 
them  on  these  questions :  1.  An  Jus  Civile  sit  prcestantius  Medi" 
cind,  2.  An  mulier  morti  condemnata  et  bis  stupensa,  rttptis 
laqueis^  tertid  suspendi  debeat.  These  two  thus  ordered  them* 
selves,— that  Throgmorton  should  be  the  forhm  hcpe^  and  answer 
first :  Ascwell  was  kept  for  the  reserve^  to  come  after  him. 

Five  Cambridge-men  undertook  the  disputation ;  namely,  John 
Redman,  Nicholas  Ridley,  John  Rokesby,  Elizeus  Price,  and 
Griffith  Tregam,  (counted  in  those  days  the  magazine  of  all  the 
kw,)  repairing  to  the  Schools,  the  doors  whereof  were  broken  open 
by  crowds  of  people.  These  disputants  so  pressed  Throgmorton, 
that,  finding  him  to  fail,  they  followed  their  advantage,  to  improve 
the  foil  into  a  flat  fall,  and  would  never  sufiTer  him  (men'^s  spirits, 
once  cast,  are  easily  kept  down)  to  recover  himself.  Wherefore, 
Ascwell  his  partner,  who  was  to  answer  on  the  second  question, 
declined  it  by  dissembling  himself  sick  ;  I  who,  had  he  not  indeed 
been  sick  of  a  conceited  soul,  had  never  come  thither  on  that 
occasion. 

Home  go  this  brace  of  disputants,  wiser  than  they  came  to  Cam-* 
bridge,  having  learned  by  dear-bought  experience,  that,  if  Hercules 
were  so  wary  as  not  to  fight  against  two,  they  two  were  none  of  the 
wisest  to  fight  against  so  many  Herculeses  as  a  University  might 

•  Fox's  "Acta  and  Monranents,"  page  1037.  t  Camden's  Britannia  iu 

Wwrwickahire.  j  Caius,  De  Antiquitate  AcadennUe  Qantab,  pp.  19,  20. 


Digiti 


zedbyLiOOgle 


24  HENRY  VIII.  UNIVBR8ITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  155 

afford.  However,  the  least  shadow  of  shanie  doth  not  reflect  on 
Oxford,  who  was  so  far  firom  giving  them  a  commission,  that  she  did 
not  know  of  their  coming  to  Cambridge.  Thus,  bold  children  will  be 
Yoituring  into  dangers  without  their  parents'  leave,  though,  when  it 
be  known,  it  cost  them  a  good  whipping  for  their  pains.  Indeed, 
some  have  reported,*  that  afterwards  they  were  expelled  the  Univer- 
sity for  this  their  daring  undertaking.  If  so,  let  me  say^  our  aunt 
Oxford  was  too  severe  iq  her  censures ;  and  I  pity  the  two  poor 
men,  whose  very  &ult  was  sufficient  punishment. 

But  an  Oxford  author  f  seeks  to  qualify  the  matter  in  his  relation. 
First,  he  tells  us,  that  Throgmorton  was  very  young,  and  counted 
none  of  the  most  learned  men  ;  both  which  we  can  easily  believe. 
For  his  expulsion  after  his  return,  he  utterly  disavoweth  it ;  and 
concerning  his  carriage  in  Cambridge,  he  pretends  to  intelligence, 
that  Throgmorton  came  off  rathip  as  conqueror  than  conquered. 
But  Cains,  present  at  the  disputation,  is  to  be  credited  before  those 
obscure  persons  (Bank  and  Bernard)  whose  testimony  he  producetb 
therein. 

As  for  Ascwell,  the  aforesaid  authorf  will  not  have  him  come  to 
Cambridge  with  any  intent  to  dispute,  but  only  as  chamber-fellow 
to  accompany  Throgmorton ;  adding  withal,  ^^  What  need  had  he 
to  dissemble  sickness  in  that  place  where  formerly  the  pestilence  so 
reigned,  (saith  Walsmgham,  in  Richard  II.)  that  sound  men  sud- 
denly died  in  a  frenzy,  without  either  sense  or  sacrament  ?  ^^  But 
what  is  all  this  to  the  purpose  ?  What,  if  there  were  a  pestilential 
distemper  in  Cambridge  an  hundred  years  before,  must  the  same  be 
supposed  still  to  continue  ?  But  we  know  the  gentleman^s  intent 
is  to  give  a  gird  at  Cambridge,  for  the  badness  of  the  air  thereof. 
We  tell  not  him  of  the  pestiferous  vapour  in  Oxford,  in  the  reign 
of  queen  Elizabeth,  wherewith  Judge,  High  Sheriff,  Justices,  and 
most  of  the  Qiand  Jury  died  all  suddenly  at  the  assizes.§  Such 
casualties  happen  sometimes  in  the  most  refined  airs ;  and,  thanks 
be  to  God  I-  they  are  but  sometimes. 

He  proceeds  to  tell  us,  that  no  Cambridge-man  ever  challenged 
the  University  of  Oxford  to  public  disputation  ;  as  I  believe  they 
never  did.  But  I  know  some  who  neither  can  be  persuaded  nor 
provoked  to  fight  a  duel  on  any  terms  ;  yet  the  same,  in  the  field,, 
irill  set  their  foot  as  far  in  the  fiice  of  their  enemy  as  any  alive. 
When  God's  glory  is  concerned,  in  the  cause  of  the  truth,  Cambridge, 
though  declining  such  childish  and  vainglorious  challenges,  hath 
been,  is,  and,  I  hope,  will  be,  as  forward  as  any  University  in  the 
world  in  the  vindicating  thereof. 

•  Ut  aiunt,  saith  Caius,  ut  pritls.  t  Brian  Twyne,  ^ntiq,  Acad,  Oxon, 

page  336,  X  Idem,  page  336.  §  Camden's  ^*  Elizabeth,"  in  anno  1677. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


156  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.  D.  1634. 

Simon  Heynes,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Nicholas  Ridley  and  Richard 
Wilkes,  Proctors ;  Robert  Chapman,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divinity, 
2 ;  Doctors  of  Civil  Law,  2 ;  Doctor  of  Medicine,  1 ;  Bachelors 
of  Divinity,  11 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  26 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  11 ; 
Bachelor  of  Music,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  43.     a.d.  1532-33. 

John  Craiford,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Henry  Mallet  and  John 
Madew,  r roctors ;  Edward  Thompson,  Mayor.  This  Thompson 
was  so  obstinate  that  he  was  excommunicated  by  the  Vice-Chancel- 
lor for  his  stubbornness.*  Doctors  of  Divinity,  7 ;  Doctor  of 
Civil  Law,  1;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  10;  Masters  of  Arts,  19; 
Bachelors  of  Laws,  17;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  38.    1533-34. 

50.  [IHe  University's  Benunoiation  of  the  Popis  Supremaoi/.] 

This  year  the  University  of  Cambridge  presented  his  majesty 
with  the  following  instrument,  wnerein  they  utterly  renounced  the 
pope's  supremacy  :— 

Jnmctissimo  a>c  potentissimo  prinoipi  ae  domino  nostrOy  Henrico 
Octavo,  ^nglice  et  Frcmdce  regi^  domino  Hibemice. 

QuM  fdix  et  faustmn  sit   et  huic  Jhrentissimo  regno  tuo^  et 
universo  orbi  Christiano^  (invictissime  prinoqps  dc  domine  demen- 
tissime^J  in  soripto  prodimus,  etc  pixlam  didmtia  sententiam  noi- 
tram  in  qtujestione  iUd  famosd   de  Momani  pontifids  potestate: 
cdjus  qucBstionis  veritatem  post  matwram  et  sedMam  eicamim- 
tionem,  et  varices  ed  de  re,  non  tmo  tempore^  coUoquutionesy  dUi" 
genti  tandem  soripturarum  eoUatione  et  propensione    (ut  nobis 
videntwr)  eruimus^  ao  erutam  ao  syngrapho  quodam  eapressam, 
quod  sententicB  nostrce  et  facti  eertissimus  testis  fuerit^  majestati 
tucBy  una  ctim  nostris  Uteris  mittimus.    Atque  hane  sani  pronn," 
ciam^  serentssime  rex^  abstud  sublimitate  nobis  impositam^  libenter 
suscqnmus ;  partim  ob  earn  (quam  majestati  tuw  debemus)  fidem 
et  obedientiam,  quibus  tdlo  tempore  aut  loco  deesse  nefas  jmtamus 
mcucimtwi ;  partim  ipsius  veritatis  amore  ao  studio^  quam  dicere 
et  prcedicare^  quoties  e  Christi  glorid^  et  reipublicce  Christianas 
salute    atqtM  commodo  esse,  videatur^  quum  omnium  intersit  qui 
Christo  nomina  dederunt,  atque  in  ittius  verba  jurdrunt,  turn  nostri 
mtdto  magis  referre  et  inter  esse  videtur^  qui  quotidie  in  iUius  Scrip- 
tfuris  versamwr^  quotidie  ittius  verba  et  voces  legimus^  qui  est  ipsa 
Via^  VeritaSy  et  Vita^  quique  veritatem  custodit  in  soeculum  sceculi* 
Hujus  famrem  et  groitiam  semper  tuce  celsitudini  adesse  precamury 
ojOamusque  utnoset  Academiam  nostram,  qucs  tucB  semper  volun* 

*  M8.  CoUegii  C&rporU-  Christie 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


M  REHiY  viii.  UNIVBRSXTY  OF  CAMBRIDQS.  157 

UUi  JuerU  obeequerUisnma^  wcissim  sublimikUU  iucB  fatore  prae^ 
quijfaveref  (Oque  omare  digneris.  C&rigtus  SenxUor  ierenmimam 
fnajsskUmn  tuam  diutimmi  servet  :-^ 

Univerm  9anctc$  makii  ecdesicB  filiU  ctd  quos  pr€B9enie$  Uteres 
firwrOurce  sunt^  ccgtu8  omnU  regentiwn  et  nanrregentium  Acade- 
micB  Oanidbrigienrisy  Mhttem  in  omnium  Sahatare  Jetu  ChriBto* 
Cum  de  Romani  pontificit  potetkUe^  guam  ex  eaorie  Soripturis  Mi 
tendieat  in  amnibue  CArietianorum  pravinciie^  et  in  hoc  regno 
Anglim  longo  jam  temparis  traetu  exerouit^  hisce  nunc  diebue 
qucedio  exarta  eit^  oc  naOra  de  ei  re  wntentia  rogaretur^  viz.  An 
fontifex  JRomanus  Aabeat  a  Deo  in  Scripturd  eaord  eibi  coneeeaam 
majorem  auAoriUUem  et  potestatem  in  hoe  regno  Anglice^  quam 
quim  alius  extemus  epiecopus :  noe  cequum  esse  putawmus^  ut  ad 
Hekp  qucpsiionis  teritatem  eruendam  omni  studio  incumberemusy  ac 
nostram  ed  dere  sententiam  et  censuram  tandem  orbi  proferremus. 
Nempi  ad  hoc  potissimim  Academias  dim  a  prineipibus  institutas 
faisse  persuasij  ut  et  poptdus  Christianus  in  lege  Dei  erudicOur^  et 
falsi  errores  (si  qui  exorirenturj  curd  et  solioitudine  dootorum 
Heologorum  penitis  ean^eUi  ac  profiigari  possint.  ,  Quamobrem  de 
prwdietA  queestione  deHberaturi  more  nostro  cowDenientes^  cu)  ma-^ 
turd  consultatione  consilia  eonferentes^  quo  modo  et  ordine  ad 
investigationem  ^eritatis  certiis  procederetur^  <Uque  omnium  tan- 
dem  suffragiis  sdectis^  quibusdam  ex  doctissimis  sacroe  theologice 
Pro/essoribuSf  Biiccalaureis^  et  aliis  Sfagistris  ea  cura  demandata^ 
ut  scrutatis  diligentissime  sa<nw  Scripturce  locis,  iUisque  coUatis 
referreni  cuj  renunciarent  quid  ipsi  dietce  qucestioni  respondendum 
putaruni.  Quoniam  auditisy  perpensis^  ac  postpuMicam  super  dictd 
juofstione  disputaUonem  maturd  ddiberoHone  discussis  his  quae  in 
qucBstione  prcedict&y  alterutram  partem  statuere^  aut  conveUere  pos- 
9enty  iUa  nobis  probabiliora^  wdidiora^  veriora  etiam  ac  oertiora 
em^  ac  genuinum  ac  sincerum  Soripturw  sensum  referre  tisa  sunt^ 
qu€B  negant  Romano  pontifici  talem  potestatem  a  Deo  in  Scripturd 
datam  esse.  Ittis  igitur  persuasiy  et  in  unam  opinionem  conveni* 
entes,  ad  quoestionem  prcedictam  ita  respondendum  deoremmus^  et 
in  his  soriptis  nomine  totius  Uhiversitatis  respondemus^  ac  pro  con^ 
dusions  verissimd  asserimus ;  quod  Bomanus  ponti/ex  non  habet  a 
Deo  concessam  sibi  majorem  authoritatem  aut  jurisdictionem  in  hoc 
regno  Anglice^  quam  quivis  cUius  episoopus  extemus.  Atque  in 
fidem  et  testimonium  hujusmodi  nostrce  responsionis  et  affirmation' 
nisy  his  Uteris  sigUlum  nostrum  commune  curatimus  apponi.  Dot. 
CantabrigicB  ex  domo  nostrd  regentium  secundo  die  mensis  Maii^ 
anno  ab  orbeper  Christum  redmpto,  MDXXXIV. 

Thus  was  the  pope^s  power  folly  abrogated  out  of  England. 
Henceforwaid  *Ulie  man  of  sin,^  in  this  land,  fell  asle^,^^^ 


168  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1636. 

more  (we  hape)  to  awate,  though  once  he  opened  his  eyes  for  a 
short  time  in  queen  Mary^s  dayis,  and  soon  shut  them  again. 

6h  Th$  Cowrse  of  the  8ohola/rf  Studies  altered  for  the  better. 

Indeed,  Sanders  himself  confesseth,  that  about  this  time  there 
"were  many  in  Cambridge  cordially  opposing  the  popish  proceed- 
ings ;  but  he  telleth  us,  they  were  none  ea^  doctimmie^  "  of  the  most 
learned  therein.''  But  had  the  meanest  of  those  he  decrieth  been 
but  of  his  opinion,  how  had  they  started  up  *^most  pious  and 
learned  ^  both  in  an  instant !  Indeed,  the  old  learning  began  to  be 
left  in  the  University,  and  a  better  succeeded  in  the  room  thereof. 
Hitherto  Cambridge  had  given  suck  but  with  one  breast,  teaching 
Arts  only,  without  Languages.  Her  scholars'  Latin  was  but  bad, 
though  as  good  as  in  any  other  place ;  Greek,  little ;  Hebrew,  none 
at  all :  their  studies  moving  in  a  circle  (I  mean  not,  as  it  ought,  in 
a  cyclopaedia  of  sciences,  but)  of  some  trite  school-questions  over 
and  over  again.  But  now  the  Students  began  to  make  sallies  into 
the  learned  languages,  which  the  industry  of  the  next  age  did  com- 
pletely conquer.  Herein  Robert  Wakefield,  a 'great  restorer  of 
the  Hebrew  tongue,*  must  not  be  forgot;  who,  for  his  better 
accomplishment,  travelled  most  parts  of  Christendom,  and  became 
Hebrew-Professor,  after  Reuchlin,  or  Capnio,  in  the  University  of 
Tubing.  But  we  shall  hear  more  of  him,  some  years  hence,  after 
his  return. 

62,  53.  The  Lord  Cromwell  chosen  ChcmeeUor^  in  the  place  of 
Bishop  Fidher.     The  great  Good  he  did  the  University. 

John  Fisher,  bishop  of  Rochester,  was  beheaded  on  Tower-hill, 
June  22nd,  continuing  Chancellor  of  the  University  to  his  last 
hour,  as  chosen  into  that  place  during  his  life,  not  during  his  out- 
ward happiness.  Being  long  a  prisoner,  he  could  not  protect  the 
University,  as  unable  to  enlarge  himself.  Yet  Cambridge  honoured 
him  for  what  he  had  done,  and  continued  him  in  his  office.  Had 
this  been  imitated  in  after-ages,  Cambridge  had  not  been  charged 
with  the  suspicion  of  ingratitude,  for  deserting  some  of  her  patrons 
as  soon  as  greatness  deserted  them ;  as  choosing,  not  their  persons, 
but  prosperity,  for  her  Chancellor.  The  lord  Cromwell  was  elected 
Chancellor  in  the  room  of  Fisher. 

I  find  not  any  particular  favour  conferred,  or  benefaction  be- 
stowed, by  him  on  the  University.  But  this  great  good  he  did, — 
that  his  greatness  kept  others  from  doing  Cambridge  any  harm. 
Many  hungry  courtiers  had  hopes  to  catch  fish,  (and  fish  it  would 
be,  whatever  came  to  their  nets,)  on  this  turning  of  the  tide, — the 

•  Bale,  Descriptio  BriU  centuria  octavo,  page  ^^v>|(j|p 


27  BENKT  VIII.  UNIVERSITY  OF  GAM BRI0QB.  159 

alteration  of  religion.  How  easy  was  it  for  coYctonsness,  in  those 
ticklish  times,  to  qnairel  the  College-lands  into  superstition? 
Sacrilege  stood  ready  to  knock  at  their  gates ;  and,  alas  !  it  was 
past  their  porter^s  power  to  forbid  it  entrance,  had  not  the  lord 
Cromwell  Tigoroosly  assisted  the  University  on  all  occasions. 

John  Craiford,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Richard  Ainsworth  and  Ouliel- 
mus  Sandeni,  Proctors ;  William  Hasill,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divi* 
city,  2  ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  9 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  17 ;  Bachelors 
of  Arts,  30.     4.  D.  1534-35. 

64.  CraiforSi  Character. 

Hitherto  none  were  chosen  Vice-chancellors  of  the  University, 
save  suoh  who  before  their  election  were  actual  Doctors.  Craiford 
was  the  first  who  innovated  herein,  being  Vice-Chancellor  before  a 
Doctor,  vit  grctdtts  qucBitum  ex  officio  faceret^  saith  my  author ;  *  not 
bringing  a  Doctorship  as  a  qualification  to  be  Vice-Chancellor,  but 
taking  it  as  a  gratification  conferred  on  him  for  being  so.  Oxford 
antiquary  accounts  him  one  of  the  ornaments  of  Cambridge,  who  at 
first  was  bred  in  Oxford.^  We  deny  not,  but  that  Craiford,  very 
young,  might  have  his  education  there,  bat  took  all  his  Degrees  in 
Cambridge,  though  &r  enough  from  being  any  great  ornament 
thereof.  For,  first,  he  was  expelled  out  of  Queen's  College,} — ^for 
no  good,  we  may  be  sure ;  yet  afterward,  by  favour  of  firiends,  got 
to  be  Proctor,  <mno  1522,  and,  at  last,  Vice-Chancellor  of  the 
University.  But  he  was,  saith  one,§  gladiator  melior  qudm  Pro- 
cancdlarimy  "a  better  fencer  than  Vice-Chancellor,''  who,  in  a 
fury,  cut  off  the  hand  from  one  Pindar,  and  cast  out  a  fellow  out  of 
the  regent-house,  catching  him  up  on  his  shoulders  by  main  force  ; 
and  I  could  wish  the  occasion  thereof  had  been  expressed.  Surely, 
he  was  a  man  of  metal,  being  Vice-Chancellor  two  years  together, 
which  I  may  call  the  critical  years  of  Cambridge,  on  the  alteration 
of  the  pope'*s  power  therein,  (and  perchance  too  much  decried  by 
some  on  the  same  account,)  being  chosen  of  purpose,  with  his 
rough  spirit,  to  bustle  through  much  opposition. 

5.5,  56.  The  first  general  Visitation  of  Cambridge^  jure  Regio. 
The  Injunctions  to  the  University  of  Dr,  Legh,  Chancellor , 
*Cromwe^8  Surrogate.  • 

This  year  Thomas  Legh,  Doctor  of  Law,  deputy  to  the  lord 
Cromwell,  vicar-general  to  king  Henry  VIII.  visited  the  Univer- 
sity of  Cambridge.     We  must  believe  him  one  of  desert,  being  sole 

•Caios,  Be  AntiquU,  Cantab.  Acadetnia,  lib.  i.  page  156.  t  Assert.  Ant. 

Oxon.  anno  1666,  page  27.  X  €aius,  ni  priusy  page  121.  §  Idem,  ibidem* 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


180  '      .  HISTORY  OF  THK  a.O.  1636, 

and  single  hj  himself  selected  for  such  an  employment ;  and  may 
be  assured  that  Cromwell  never  sent  a  slug  on  his  errands.  I  find 
4>ne  Dr.  Lee  petitioned  against  in  the  articles  and  demands  of 
Robert  Aske,  and  his  rebellious  crew  of  northern  conunons,  and 
chaiged  with  extortion  in  visitation  of  religious  houses ;  and  am 
confident  he  was  the  same  person,  though  some  difference  betwixt 
Legh  and  Lee,  in  the  spelling  thereof.  For,  besides  that  the 
▼ulgar  are  never  critics  in  writing,  no  wonder,  if  they  did  mis-spell 
him  whom  they  did  mis-call,  loading  him  with  opprobrious  lan- 
guage. Yet  no  better  evidence  of  one's  honesty  than  to  be  railed 
at  by  a  rabble  of  rebels.  But  see  this  Dr.  Legh'^s  injunctions  to 
the  University :—  • 

Ik  Dei  nomine.  Amen.  Anno  Domini  miUesimo  quingm- 
tesimo  trieesimo  quintOy  memis  verd  Oetobria  die  22,  No8  Thomas 
Legby  Legvm  Doctor ^  prwclari  etc  honorandi  mri  Magisbri  ThomB 
CromweUy  iU/ust/rissimi  in  Chrigto  principis  etc  domini  Henrid 
Octaviy  Dei  groUid  Angliw  et  FrandcB  regisy  fidei  defensorisy 
domini  HihemicBy  ac  in  terris  mpremi  ecdesice  Anglicanw  sub 
Christo  capitisy  primarii  aecretariiy  et  ad  camcu  ecdesiasticas 
mcem^-gerentisy  mcarii  generalis  et  officialis  prindpalisy  nee  non 
intra  regnvm  AnglicBy  tarn  in  lods  exemptisy  qtiam  non  exemptisy 
msitatoris  generalisy  ad  negotium  visitationis  et  inquisitionis  Aca- 
demicBy  sive  Universitatis  Cantabrigice  ac  CoUegiorvMy  Aularum^ 
ac  eceterarum  Domtmmy  sive  Hospitiorwm  Schokmvm  inhahitan- 
tivMy  habewtes  in  ccetera  potegtatem  nobis  attributamy  injunctiones 
qucB  nobis  necessaries  ac  opportunoe  mderentuTy  quasctmque  indu 
eendiy  has  injtmctionesy  sixe  mandata  sacratissiniis  regiis  injunc- 
tionibus  adjidenda  et  a/nnectenda  fore  decremmusy  quoe  omnia  el 
singuhy  non  minus  quam  iUay  sub  iisdem  posnis  a  qmlibet  cujusfcis 
CoUegiiy  AtdWy  sive  Hospitii  hujtis  Academics  PrcBpdsitOy  site 
Magistro;  aliisqm  Schola/ribaSy  sive  Studentibm  hujus  Universita- 
tisy  quibuscunque  obsertari  'oolumus ;  et  autkoritate  regia  nobis  in 
h&c  parte  oommissd  strict^  prcecipimm  a^v£  mandamus, 

Primiitny  quod  quilibet  SttidiostM  sive  Scholaris  intra  hanc  Aca" 
demiam  Cantabrigice  observabit  omnia  et  singula  stdtutay  eonstitu- 
tionesy  et  ordincUioneSy  et  laudcUnles  consuettidines  hujus  Universi^ 
tcUiSy  ac  CoUegiiy  Auhsy  Hospitiiy  seu  Domiks  ubi  habitafy  juxta 
primcevam  fundatiomm  ejusdemy  quatentis  his  admemoratis  injunc- 
tionibus  non  requgnenty  aut  studio  bonarum  et  saara/rum  literarumy 
seu  hujus  regni  nostri  juribus  et  statutis  non  obswnt. 

Itemy  quid  nuUus  Magistery  sive  Socius  alicujus  CoUegiiy  Auke^ 
sive  Hospitiiy  in  superioribus  regiis  injunctionibus  spedficatiy 
cUieui  vendat  aut  distfcAcU  in  posterumy  stiam  Sodetatemy  qtiovis 
qucesito  aut  excogitate  colore ;  nee  aliquam  pecuniee  sm^Jnmam  pro 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


a?  nvm  vm.  UNIVijllSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  161 

odrnmione  td  recepHone  alun^  Stholaris,  penUi^  in  fuHfuni 


lUm^  9clumu8  ei  ^rieii  prwcipimtu,  tU  in  poHerwm  pmitiU 
facemxfU  et  eessent  faetiones  inter  hufus^  td  hujus  patricey  civitatisy 
atU  CoUeffii  eancives^  tire  toeios^  et  quoscunque  alios ;  nee  in  dec- 
timbus  Soeiorum,  Bckolariumf  ProBposUorvm^  seu  (diquo  alio  com^ 
mtmt  adUy  9d  dmiUbus  suffiragiis  edendis^  euumnque  ob  eommunem 
poiriam  poHits  cuseniiant^  quim  d  qui  literarum  studio^  titcB  et 
^MTum  integrtiaUy  aliisque  corporis  et  cmimi  dotibus^  meritd  dt 
prtpfsrendus :  cAm  qudm  turpisdmum  dt  (his  prcesertim  doctisy 
^  bonis  opintonibus  imbtUis,  qui  drtutis  exemplar  et  speculum  esse 
debentj  talibus  iniquis  et  mdgcmbus  affectibus  dud.  Quin  potiiks 
^  hcBO  Acad&mia  omnes  ad  bancs  mores  et  liierarum  scientiam, 
^duti  iteri^m  format  et  gignit ;  sic  et  omnesy  quotquot  ejus  sunt 
Ahmniy  se  mutuos  oondves  et  munidpes  esse  sentianty  dnguli  dn- 
plies  pro  viriU  sudy  et  aum  omni  eharitate  Jraiemdy  qualitatibusy 
<^  donis  extemis  et  intemis  mutud^  auadliantes,  et  ad  mdiora  pro* 
fnotere  satagentes* 

Itemy  quod  Vice-CaneeUarius  et  Procuratores  htyus  Univerd^ 
to^w,  et  quilibet  PrcspodtuSy  Magistery  dve  Gustos  eujuscunque 
CMsgiiy  dve  Hoqdtii  et  Auhe  hujus  Academiw  possessUmes  immo^ 
hUes^  et  bona  mobiUoy  in  communi  habentes  exhibeaty  et  citrafestum 
Pwi/icationis  Beatoe  Marioe  proximd  Jviturumy  chartasy  dona* 
tionssy  Jundadonumy  donationumy  appropricUionum  statutay  consti^ 
tutionesy  et  BuUas  PonUfidaSy  ac  alia  quoBCimque  diplomatay  et 
papistiea  nmsnimeniay  hujus  Uniterdtcttisy  ac  CoUegiorumy  Aula^ 
^«i  et  Hospitiorum  hvyusmodi  req^ectiviy  ac  etiam  rentale  mobi^ 
Hum  plenum^  et  fidde  incentorium  bonorum  mobiUum  eorundemy  in 
fMnus  died  honorandi  riri  M<xgistri  Thomce  OromweUy  tisikUoris- 
generalisy  efusve  legitimi  ad  hoc  deputati,  ipsius  beneplamtum  in  ed 
parte  eapecta^uri. 

Proftered,  vdumus  et  prcedpimusy  qudd  hcec  Vhiverdtas  unam 
puUicam  Lectionemy  dte  Orcecamy  dve  Hdyraicamy  ex  liberd  op* 
^icne  eorumy  qui  de  gremio  efusdem  Univerdtatissunty  utram  earum 
^uerintj  et  eonducere  arbitroH  fuerinty  suis  impensis  continud 
fustetUety  et  suppeditet ;  quique  in  iUius  LecturcPy  quam  in  aliarum 
Lecturarumy  ubicunque  in/ra  hone  Univerdta^tem  prcdeetoribus 
digendisy  qudm  diligentisdmi  suam  operam  adhibeanty  ut  eos  ad 
prcdecUones  ejusmodi  ddiganty  qui  Uterarum  sdenHdy  et  morum 
ifUegriUMie  fiorere  noscuntwTy  et  qui  puriy  dnceri  et  pii  legere 
tdunty  omni  affects  camaliy  out  quocunque  alio  respectu  iniquo 
penitits  semoto  etposipodto. 

Itemy  Tohmus  et  mandamusy  qudd  omnes  et  Prwpodtiy  et  Mctgis- 
tdy  Custodesy  /SeholareSf  ac  Studentes  in  hoc  UniverdtatCy  pro 

^  Digitized  by  LjOOQ'IC 


1(52  HISTORY  OF  THE  a. D.  1636. 

animabm  Jimdatoris  Unhersitatis  (xc  CoUeffiarum^  et  aiiarum  in 
eadem  Domorum  quarumctmque^  et  pro  felicimmo  statu  invictissim 
domini  nostri  regis^  eb  domince  AnncB  ejm  UgitimoB  conjugis^  hujus 
regni  reginw^  mmmique  eorwn  honoris  incremento  maa^imo^  sub 
quorum  auspiciisyera  rdigio  Christiana  jam  refloresdty  uni  Missw 
in  ecclesid  Beatoe  Marias^  infra  mensem  proximo  sequentem  pMice 
celebrandw  intersint.  Item^  qudd  quilibet  Prcepositus,  Magister^ 
sive  Gustos  cujusms  CoUegiiy  Auke^  vel  Hospitii  memorati  babeat 
exemplar  harvm  et  prcedictarvm  injunctionum^  ac  easjldeliter  con- 
soiiptas  in  sua  domo  coram  omnibus  Scholaribus  ejtisdem  semel  mi- 
gulis  mensibm  legi  faoiat^  et  eas  a  quibusvis  volewtibus  tramcribi 
sinat  atque  permittat. 

Item^  quid  si  aliquis  Scholaris  et  Studens  hujus  Uni'cersitatis^ 
9d  etiam  ipse  Vice-Cancellarim^  seu  alicujtis  CoUegii^  Aulw,  Tel 
Hospitii  Prcepositus^  Magister^  sive  Gustos  ityunctiones  regias^ 
sigiUo  suo  magno  sigillatas^  vel  hoc  injunetione  sibi  annexas^  seu 
ea/rum  aliquam  mokueerit ;  quilibet  eorum  id  quamprimim  dictm 
regicB  majestati^  aut  ejus  ^isitatori  generali^  seu  ejus  surrogato 
denuneiari  procuret :  et  si  delictum  respidt  Universitatis  Moderor 
tor  em  aliquem^  Vice-Ccmcellarius  et  Procuratores  denunctanti  vel 
ejus  nuncio  pecunias  necessarias,  et  alia  ad  hoc  requisita  minis- 
trabit.  Quod  si  aliquis  alius  Prcepositus^  Magister^  sive  Gustos 
alicujvs  Gollegiif  Aulce^  sive  Hoqntii^  in  aliquo  prcemissoru/m  deli- 
querit^  ipse  similiter  accusanti  et  denuncicmti  viaticum  et  expemas 
stihministrabit,  Beservantes  insuper  honoratissimo  viro  Magistro 
ThomcB  Gromteell^  et  visitatori  generali,  consimilem  potestcUem^ 
adjiciendi  et  diminuendi^  quam  regia  majestas  in  superioribus 
injunctionibus  ei  reservavit. 

In  cujtAs  rei  testimonium^  quia  sigillum  de  propria  authenticum 
ad  manus  non  habemus^  ideo  sigillum  officiaiis  domini  archidiaconi 
Eliensis  prcesentibm  apponi  mandavimus ;  et  nos  officiaiis  ante- 
dicttis  ad  y>eciale  mandatum  dicti  domini  commissarii  sigillum  nos^ 
trwn  prcesentibm  apposuimus,  Dat,  xxU.  die  mensis  Ocfobris^  anno 
Domini  1535,  et  regni  dicti  illustrissimi  domini  nostri  regis  anno 
vicesimo  septimo. 

56.  King  Henry's  Injunctions  to  'the  University  of  Cambridge. 

These  Injunctions  relate  as  additionals  to  Former  Injunctions  o^ 
the  kings,  too  tedious  here  to  exemplify.  But  take  the  substance 
thereof: — 

1.  He  beginneth  with  bemoaning  the  barbarism  and  ignorancq 
which  so  lately  spread  in  the  University,  protesting  his  desire  to 
promote  piety,  and  extirpate  heresy,  superstition,  idolatry^  &c. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


27  HKNR7  viii.  UNIYSBSITT  OF  CAMBBIDQB.  183 

2.  He  exhorteth  all  the  members  in  the  UniTevsitj  to  the 
embracisg  of  Christ'^s  doctrine  in  spirit  and  truth,  recommeoding 
Mr.  Cromwell,  their  Chancellor,  to  be  their  visitor  therein. 

3.  He  requires  their  renouncing  all  obedience  to  the  pope  of 
Rome ;  and  that  his  royal  authority  be  received  as  supreme,  under 
God. 

4.  He  inciteth  them  to  the  study  of  tongues,  because  sensum 
alieujw  rei  non  poteit  iUe  (usequif  qui  rudis  ett  idwmatts  quQ 
tradUwr. 

5.  He  enjoineth  them  to  found,  on  the  joint  cost  of  all  the 
Colleges,  two  Lectures,  the  one  of  Latin,  the  other  of  Greek,  to  be 
daily  read,  (and,  by  consequence,  heard,)  on  great  penalties. 

6.  That  no  authors  hereafter  be  publicly  read  who  have  written 
on  '*  the  Master  of  the  Sentences ;  ^  but  that  all  Lectures  be  made 
on  some  part  of  the  Scripture. 

7*  That  it  should  be  permitted  to  all  freely  to  read  God^s  word, 
in  .their  private  studies,  and  repair  to  any  public  place  where  the 
same  is  preached. 

8.  That  hereafter  none  fai  the  University  take  any  degree  in  -the 
Canon-Law. 

9«  He  did  make  void  and  abolish  all  ceremonies  and  observances 
which  any  ways  did  hinder  the  study  of  Scholars,  or  bonam  valeiU' 
dinem  studio  amicam. 

10.  He  ordered,  that  the  youth  to  be  educated  in  the  Arts 
should  read  Aristotle,  Rodulphus  Agricola,  Philip  Melancthon, 
Trapezuntius,  &c. 

11.  He  forbad  the  reading  of  the  frivolous  Questions  and  ob« 
scnre  glosses  of  Scotus,  Burleus,  Anthony  Trombet,  Bricot,  Brttli*^ 
fisrius,  &c. 

12.  He  pronounceth  all  statutes  of  the  University  or  private 
Ck>lleges  void,  if  repugnant  to  the  premises. 

13.  That  all  Masters  of  Colleges  be  bound,  by  their  solemn 
oath,  to  the  effectual  observation  of  these  his  injunctions. 

14.  Reserving  always  to  the  aforesaid  Thomas  Cromwell,  their 
Chancellor,  and  his  vicar-general,  or  to  his  lawful  surrogate  in  that 
kind,  ftill  power  to  examine,  add,  and  alter  any  thing  according  to 
his  discretion,  confident  of  his  care  herein  for  the  good  of  the  Uni^ 
?ersity% 

Observe  by  the  way,  that  at  this  instant  the  University  of  Cam- 
bridge was  very  full  of  Students,  as  may  appear  by  that  passage  in 
the  king^s  Injunctions :  for  he  reckoneth  up  the  several  Colleges^ 
«M  eoti/tuunt^  et  di'eersantv/r^  et  frequentcmt  Scholar e8  et  Studiosii 
tx  omni  duecesi  et  qudlibet  parte  hujus  regni  nostri  AnglicB^  tarn 
^  Wallid  qiMm  eoa  Hibemid^     So  that  it  seemeth  here  was  then 

^    ^  Digitized  by  LiOOgle 


164  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.p.  1635. 

ftn  uDiversal  confluence  of  Scholars  fr6ju  all  parts  of  the  king's 
dominions, 

57.  The  Submission  of  the  Master  and  Fellows  of  Gonville  Hall  to 
the  King's  Injunctions, 
Three  days  after  Dr.  Legh  had  set  forth  his  Injunctions,  the 
Colleges  made  their  respective  submissions  thereunto,  solemnly  sub- 
scribing the  ^same.  We  assure  ourselves  they  used  the  same  forin 
for  the  essentials  ;  one  copy  whereof  we  have  here  inserted,  that  th^ 
rest  may  be  measured  thereby  :— 1 

Invictissimo  ae  pientissimo  in  Chrlsto  principi  et  domino  nodro^ 

Henrico  Octavo^  Dei  gratia  Anglice  et  Francice  regi,  fidd 

defensori^   domino  HibernicB^  ac  in   terris  supremo  ecclesic^ 

Anglicanm  sub  Christo  capiti, 

Vestri  hwniles  subditi  et  devotissimi  oratores  Willielmus  E'l^i- 

enham^  Ma^gister  sive  Gustos  OoUegii  dicti-  GonviUe  ffoMj  Gat^ 

brigice^  et  ejusdem  loci  Sodi^   reverentiam  et  obedientiam^  tarn 

excdlenii  et  prcepotenti  principi  debitas  et  condignas  cum  (mni 

subjectione  et  honore. 

Noverit  majestas  vestra  regia  quod  nos  Magister  et  Sodi  pre- 
didti^  non  m  aut  metu :  coacti^  dolove  aut  eUiqud  olid  sinistra 
TnachinationCy  ad  haec  inducti  si^e  seductiy  sed  ex  nostris  certi? 
scientiisy  animis  ddiberatis^  merisque  et  yf>ontaneis  Toluntatihus ; 
pur^y  tpont^  et  absolute,  in  verbo  sacerdotii^  profitemu/r^  qHrndemus^ 
ac  (zd  sancta  Dei  Eva/ngeliay  per  nos  corporaliter  tq^cta,  juramus 
eestroB  illustrissimce  regi<B  majestatiy  singviari  ac  smnrno  domino 
nostro  et  patronoy  Henrico  OctavOy  Dei  gratidy  Anglice  et  Francice 
regiy  jfidei  defensoriy  et  domino  HibernicBy  ac  in  terris  eccksio^ 
AngUcance  supremo  immediate  sub  Ghristo  capiti;  quid  posthac 
ntdli  externo  imperatoriy  regiy  principiy  aut  prelatOy  nee  Bomano^ 
pontijiciy  quern  *^papam'*'^  vocantyfdelitatem,  aut  obedientiam,verbo 
Tel  scriptOy  simpliciter  vel  sub  ju/ramentOy  promittemns  aut  dabimu$ 
Tel  dari  curabimm,  sed  omni  temporey  casu,  et  conditioney  partes 
testroB  regies  majestatisy  ac  successorum  vestrorum  sequemur  et 
obsertabimusy  et  pro  mrili  de/endemusy  contra  omnem  hominem 
quern  Testrce  majestatiy  aut  sttccessoribus  ^estrisy  adeersarium  cog- 
noscemus  et  suspicabimur.  Solique  testrce  regies  majestatiy  ^ehi 
supremo  nostro  principiy  et  ecdesice  Anglicance  capitis  a^  successori- 
bus  vestrisy  fidelitatem  et  obedientiam  sinceri  et  ex  a/nimo  prw-* 
^tabimus,  Papatum  Romanum  non  esse  aded  in  sacris  Uteris  ordi^ 
ff^atum  profitemv/Ty  sed  hvmaniiiLs  traditumy  constanter  affirmamuSf 
0t  pakm  decla/ramusy  ac  dedarabimusy  et  ut  alii  sic  publicenty  dili* 
genter  cwrabimus.    Nee  tractatwm!  cum  quoqunque  mortalium  pri: 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


2r  HBNIT  VIII.  tJNI VBtelTY  OF  CAMBfttDOB.  165 

M/m  aui  pubKd  inibimusj  aut  commtiemusy  quodponHfex  Bama^ 
m,  aliquom  autkariiatem  et  jurisdidianemj  ampKug  Ske  kabeat 
a^  exereeaiy  aut  ad  uUam  pottkac  reaUkuxhtr  ;  epi9C0pumque 
Smanum  qnsccpum  modemufn,  aui  efuB  in  iUo  fpitecpaiUy  tuece»- 
^^  quemeunquej  non  pdpam^  nan  summum  pontificem^  nan  uni^ 
'fmeiem  qngocpumy  nee  Mnetimmum  daminum ;  $ed  iolum  Bama^ 
nm  qnicopwn,  td  panHjlcemf  (lU  priseU  mas  eraiy)  scienter 
fMid  asseremus :  juraque  et  rtoMa  iufue  regni  pro  exHrpaUane 
^  subkaione  papatisy-et  auetariiatis  ae  juriedictionis  dicH  Bamani 
fi9copiy  quandaeunque  edita  rite  eaneita^  edendaque  rive  ean- 
^^^^y  pro  viribuiy  seienridj  et  ingeniclis  noshie  ipri  Jirmiter 
^^mrabimusy  et  ab  cdiis  rie  obsertari  (quantum  in  nobis  fuerit) 
mrabimus  atque  efficiemus ;  nee  posthae  dictum  Bamanum  episco* 
pwn  appdlabim/usy  out  appdlanti  eonsentiemus ;  nee  in  ytts  curid 
pro  jure  aut  justitid  agemuSy  aui  agetUi  respondebimus,  nee  ibidem 
(f^cimims  vri  rri  personam  sustinebimusj  et  ri  quid  dictus  episca- 
pia  per  nuncium  rd  per  literas  nobis  signijicaverit,  qualecunque  id 
fuerit,  iUud  qudm  citisrimi  eommodi  poterimusy  aut  testrce  region 
mjegtatiy  aut  wstris  a  secretis  conriliariis  rignificabimuSy  aut  rigni" 
ficdrifaeiemus  :  nosqueliteras^  aut  nuncium^  ad  eundem  Bomahum 
fmpum,  vd  ejus  curiam^  nee  mittemus  nee  miUi  fariemus^  nisi 
v^a  majestate  eonseid^  et  consentientej  aut  vestro  sueeessore^  quod 
iickB  literce  vd  nunrius  ad  eum  deferatur.  BuUaSy  brema  atU 
fescripta  quc&cunque  pro  nobis  td  aliis  ab  episeopo  Bomano^  td 
ym  curid  nan  impetrabimuSj  vd  ut  talia  a  quovis  impetrentur  non 
^^otmlemus ;  et  ri  talia  pro  nobis  insdis  aut  ignorantibus  gene^ 
rditer  pd  spedaliter  impetrabuniur^  td  aliis  quomodo  libet  conce* 
^nr,  eis  renuneiabimus^  et  non  eonsentiemus^  nee  utemur  eisdem 
^  modoy  at  eas  vestrw  majestati  aut  suecessoribus  vestris  tradi 
curafdmus.  Exemptioni  vero  qud  Bomano  episcopOj  tel  swmmo 
\mth  vacant  pontifici^  avt  ipri  qtunmnque  nomine  appeUetur,  ejusve 
SmaruB  ecclesioe,  mediati  vd  immediate  subjecH  svmus  et  fuimus^ 
ipdusque  coneessionibusj  privilegiisy  largitionibuSy  et  induUis  qui^ 
ksctmque  expressi  in  his  scriptis  renuneiamusy  et  sdi  vestrce  majes^ 
^tiy  testrisque  successoribusy  nos  subditos  et  subjeetos  prq/UemuTy  ao 
«o«  mbjidemusy  et  nos  sdummodd  subditos  fore  spondemus.  Neo 
^<fe»  Romano  pontificiy  vel  ejus  nundisy  oratoribuSy  collectoribuSy 
<iut  legatisy  uHam  procurationemy  pensionemy  portionemy  censumy 
^^  quamcunque  aliam  pecuniarum  summam  (quoeunque  nomine 
^PpeUetur)  per  nos  aut  interpositam  personam  vel  personam  soke^ 
'^%  aut  sohi/aciemus :  statutumque  de  successione  Testrd  regid  in 
^drliamento  vestro  editumy  ac  omnia  ac  ringula  in  eodein  contentay 
H^i'Osta  formam  et  effectum  ejusdem  fideliter  observabimm.  Prce-^ 
t^i'ea  in  vim  pacti  profiteinur  et  spondemusy  ac  in  verbo  sacerdotali. 

Digitized  by  V^OOQ IC 


15Q  HISTORY  OF  THE  A.p.  1686. 

et  8ub  fidditate  testrw  majestati  debUa  et  nastrd  coram  Deo  conm- 
entid,  promittimus,  quod  contra  hanc  nostram  prcedictam  professi" 
onem  et  qmmonemy  ntMd  digpematione^  nuUd  exceptione^  ntdld 
appellatione^  ant  provqcationcy  mtUove  jwris  W  facti  remedio  im 
tuebimv/r.  Et  si  qaam  protestationemy  in  prcBjudidvm  hujm  nog- 
troB  pro/essionisy  et  apomidnU  fedrma^  earn  in  prcesens  et  in  omne 
tempus  fatwrwn  revocamusy  et  eidem  renundamvA  per  prcssentes 
Uterasy  quibus  propriia  manibua  nomina  nostra  subscripsimwy  et  eas 
nostri  communis  sigiUi  apprehensione^  et  natarii  ptMici  infri 
scripti  siffno  et  subscriptione  committi,  curammus.  Dat  et  act.  in 
Domo  nostrd  capittdari,  25  die  mensis  Oetobris^  anno  ab  incamon 
tione  Christi  1535,  et  regni  'cestri  florentissimi  27"^  prcesentibus  tune 
ibid.  Johanne  Acres^  Artium  Magister^  et  Boberto  Warmington^ 
Baccalawreo  in  Legibw^  testibus  adproemissa  accitis  et  lepatis. 

WiLLIMUS    BUCKENHAM,  AnDBEW   DeW, 

RoGBBUS  OvE&Y,  Laurentius   Johannes  Cajus, 

Johannes  Styrmin,  Maptit,      Willimus  Barker. 

Et  ego  Johannes  Bheseus^  notarius  pvblicus  dicti  iUustrissimi 
domini  regis  regestor  principalis^  quia  prafessioni^  qiHmsioni, 
jufamewtOy  prcestationi,  ac  cceteris  prcemissis  omnibus^  dum  sic,  ut 
prcemittituTy  sub  antio,  mense^  die  et  loco  prcedictisy  agerentuTy  et 
fierent  una  cum  preenominatis  testibus^  personaliter  inJterfm^ 
eaque  sic  fieri  et  interponi  vidi,  et  aitdivi^  ac  mow  ut  gesta  sunt,  in 
notam  ewcepi ;  ided  hoc  prcesens  publicum  instrumentum  inde  cotir 
feciy  et  in  hanc  publicamet  authenticam  formam  redegi,  signoque  \ 
meo  tabeliionaliy  ac  nomine  et  cognomine^  meis  solitis  et  consuetis 
signavi  i  meque  h\c  subscripsi,  in  fidem  et  testimonium  omnium  et 
singtdortm  prcemissorumy  rogatus  legitime  et  requisitus,  J 

Their  protestation,  taken  in  verba  sacerdotiiy  relates  to  the  major 
part,  not  to  all,  the  Fellows  of  Gonville,  underwriting  their  names* 
For  I  shall  not  be  easily  persuaded,  that  John  Cajus,  penultimus 
subscriptor  in  this  instrument,  being  a  physician  by  his  profession, 
was  ever  in  Holy  Orders, 

58.  Unipersitg  Records  delivered  to  the  Lord  Cromwell. 

I 
In  obedience  to  Dr.  Legh's  Injunctions,  the  whole  University,, 
before  Candlemas-day  next  ensuing,  surrendered  to  the  king  all, 
their  charters,  donations,  statutes,  popes'*  bulls,  and  papistical 
muniments,  with  an  exact  rental  of  their  lands,  and  inventory  o^ 
iheir  goods.    The  Vice-Chancellor  and  Senior  Proctor  went  up  to 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


27  BBMly  viii.  UN1VBR81TY  OF  CAMBRlDO£.  1(J7 

Lendoi^  and  deliveied  tliem  to  secretary  Cromwell,  Chancellor  of 
the  Uaiversity.  And  npw  they  are  deposited  in  a  safe  hand, 
seeing  the  same  person,  as  Master  of  the  Rolls,  was  intrusted  with 
the  keeping  of  the  records  of  the  kingdom. 

59,  60.  Ifo  mare  Doctors  of  Canon  Law ;  which  is  annexed  to 

CitiL 

Hereafter  expect  no  more  Doctors  of  Canon  Law  in  Cambridge. 
Formerly,  almost  every  year  some  were  gmduated  in  that  Faculty ; 
and  these  preceded  those  of  Civil  Law,  as  the  pope  makes  himself 
to  be  above  the  emperor.  But  now,  Gratian  fared  no  better  in 
Cambridge  than  his  brother  Peter  Lombard.  For,  as  the  king  had 
pronounced  his  sentence  of  condemnation  against  the  public  reading 
of  "  the  Master  of  the  Sentences  f  so  the  Decretals  were  banished 
after  them.  King  Henry,  stung  with  the  dilatory  pleas  of  the 
Canonists  at  Rome,  in  point  of  his  marriage,  did  in  revenge  destroy 
their  whole  hive  throughout  his  own  Universities. 

Hovever,  afterwards  Scholars  applied  themselves  to  the  reformed 
Canon  Law,  namely,  so  much  thereof  as  afterwards  was  received,  aa* 
conformable  to  the  kiug^s  prerogative  and  the  municipal  law  of  the 
land.  These  many  studied  to  enable  themselves  for  Chancellors, 
officials,  &c.,  in  several  diocesses;  yet  so  that  Canon  Law  did 
never  after  stand  by  itself,  (as  subsisting  a  distinct  Faculty  wherein 
any  commenced,)  but  was  annexed  to  Civil  Law,  and  the  degree 
denominated  from  the  latter.  And  although  Civilians  kept  Canon 
Law  in  commendam^  with  their  own  profession,  yet  both  twisted 
together  are  scarce  strong  enough  (especially  in  our  sad  days)  to 
draw  unto  them  a  liberal  livelihood- 


SECTION  VII. 

EDVARDO  PALMER  DE  WALTHAM   ARMIGBRO. 

ViR  Atticissime, 

Fratres  meos,  verbi  ministros,  saepiiis  audivi  soli- 
citos,  ne  mentes  suae  sensim  torpescerent,  e5  qu6d 
rusticanis  viculis  damnati,  sibi  solum  sit  consortium 
cum  crassis  Minervis,  quibus  inter  crudum  et  coctum 
nihil  interest. 

At    mea   long^    dispar    conditio,,   cui,    Deo   gratias, 
emunctioris    nasi  parochiani   contigerunt ;    e  quibus  tu. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


168  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  153^v 

limato  tuo  judicio,  me  inter  praedicandum  hebescentem, 
instar  coticulae,  aliquoties  exacuisti. 

Fateor  san6,  prsesentiam  tuam  mihi  suggestum  ascen- 
suro,  non  semel  metum  incussisse,  ne  forsan,  te  audi- 
ente,  aliquid  miniis  pensiculatum  excideret.  Sed  ani- 
mum  erexit  opportuna  recordatio  comitatis  tuae,  qusl 
lapsibus  currentis  tarn  linguae  quam  calami  facile  veniam 
es  daturus. 

Digneris,  quaeso,  lectione  tud  banc  historiolam,  vel 
eo  nomine,  quod  Collegium  Trinitatis  (unum  e  tribus 
conflatum,  et  Trin-uni  Deo  dicatum)  exhibeat.  Colle- 
gium amplissimum,  non  tam  rege  fundatore,  qustoi 
doctissimis  suis  alumnis  superbiens ;  inter  quos,  ob 
summam  Graecarum  literarum  peritiam,  te  Pabnam 
ferre  meritissimd  agnoscit. 

1 — 3.  A  Combination  against  Dr.  Metcalfe.  Great  Deserts  soon 
forgotten.  Guilt  haimted  with  Justice.  A.D.  1534.  27 
Henry  VIII. 

This  year  the  young  fry  of  Fellows  of  St.  John's  in  Cambridge 
combined,  yea,  conspired,  against  their  old  Master,  Dr.  Metcalfe,  a 
man  much  meriting  of  his  House ;  it  being  hard  to  say  whether  St. 
John's  oweth  more  to  the  lady  Margaret  or  Dr.  MetcEdfe  \  she  by 
her  bounty  fotmded  it,  he  by  his  providence  kept  it  from  being 
confownded!'^  Many  a  pound  he  gave,  more  he  got  of  his  friends, 
for  this  College.  Indeed,  he  was  none  of  the  greatest  Rabbins, 
but  he  made  many  good  Scholars  under  him.  Thus  the  dull  and 
blunt  whetstone  may  be  said  virtually  to  be  "  all  edge,''  because 
setting  a  sharpness  on  other  instruments.  Metcalfe,  with  Themis- 
tocles,  could  not  fiddle,  but  he  knew  how'  to  make  a  little  College 
a  great  one,  by  his  two-and-twenty  years'  prudent  government 
thereof. 

I  find  not  a  particular  of  the  fitults  which  the  Fellows  laid  to 
Metcalfe's  charge.  It  may  be,  the  greatest  matter  was,  because  he 
was  old,  they  young ;  he  froward,  they  &ctious.  Indeed,  he  was 
over-frozen,  in  his  northern  rigour,  and  could  not  be  thawed  to 
ungive  any  thing  of  the  rigidness  of  his  discipline.  Besides,  I  sus- 
pect him  too  stubborn  in  his  Romish  mvmsimus^  which  gave  his 
adversaries  advantage  against  him;  who  would  not  be  quiet  till 
they  had  cast  him  out  of  his  Mastership.      Did  not  all  the  bricks 

•  See  more  of  him  in  our  "  Hietory  of  Cambridge,"  anno  1608,  page  141. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


29HEN1T  Tin.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBHlDOE.  169 

of  tke  Ck>llege  that  day  double  their  dye  of  redness,  to  blush  at  the 
ingratitudes  of  those  that  lived  therein  ? 

Wonder  not  if  Metcalfe  surviyed  but  few  months  after  his 
removal.  Old  tiees,  if  transplanted,  are  so  far  from  bearing  of 
fruit,  that  they  bear  not  themselves  long,  but  wither  away.  How- 
ever, let  not  Us  enemies  boast,  it  being  observed,  that  none  thrived 
ever  after  who  had  a  hand  in  Metcalfe^s  ejection,  but  lived  meanly, 
and  died  miserably.*  This  makes  me  confident,  that  neither 
Master  Cheek  nor  Master  Ascham,  then  Fellows  of  the  College, 
had  any  hand  against  him  ;  both  of  them  being  well  known  after* 
wards  to  come  to  good  grace  in  the  commonwealth. 

Francis  Mallet,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Henry  Joliffe  and  Robert 
Stokes,  Proctors ;  Simon  Triew,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divinity,  7 ; 
Bachelors  of  Divinity,  16 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  26 ;  Bachelors  of 
Laws,  13 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  18.    a.  o.  1535-^6. 

4,  5.  Cambridge  Records  re-ddivered  unto  them.    Query.  Whether 
the  Popes'*  Bulb  were  in  Specie  restored. 

Now  had  the  records  of  Cambridge  slept  well-nigh  a  whole  year 
in  the  custody  of  the  lord  Cromwell ;  not  that  there  was  the  least 
intention  finally  to  detain  them,  but  to  suspend  them  for  a  time,  to 
wean  the  University  from  their  former  fondness  to  the  pope,  that 
for  the  future  they  might  feed  with  a  better  appetite  on  the  king'^s 
&vour8.  It  was  now  therefore  thought  fit  to  restore^  them  again 
without  the  loss  of  a  shoe-latchet  to  the  University.  Wherwipon 
Robert  Stokes,  the  junior  Proctor,  and  John  Meare,  the  Esquire- 
Beadle,  went  up.  to  London,  where  the  aforesaid  records  were  deli- 
vered unto  them.  After  their  return  to  Cambridge,  Thomas  Argal 
and  Anthony  Hussey  were  deputed  by  the  Regent-house,  to  receive 
such  records  as  concerned  the  University. 

Yet  I  question  whether  any  of  the  pope's  Bulls  were  restored  to 
the  University  or  no ;  I  mean,  those  Bulls  of  a  later  date,  conferred 
on  Cambridge  since  the  massacre-general  of  their  records,  in  the 
mad  mayoralty  of  Edward  Lyster.^f  If  any  such  were  returned, 
they  might  be  monttmentSj  (looked  on  for  rarities,)  but  no  longer 
mt^nimentSj  of  the  University,  as  too  infirm  to  fence  and  fortify  the 
same,  the  pope's  power  being  totally  abrogated.  However,  though 
not  in  specie,  they  were  virtually  restored  ;  the  University  exchang- 
ing, not  losing,  her  right  herein, — only  bottoming  her  privileges, 
not  on  papal,  but  regal,  power :  etsi  indytissimus  rex  ea  auferri 
jusserit9  ^^  pontificum  deinceps  obtenderetur  atUhoritasj  eorum 
tamen  beneficium  academioe  salvum  integrumgue  esse  volmt.l 

*  Caiits,  Hist,  Cant,  Acad,  lib.  i.  page  7Q,  t  See  ova  "  Htotory  of  Cam- 

Iridge/'  anno  1361;  page  83.  \  Caius^  UUt,  Cant,  Acad,  lib.  i.  page  106. 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ  l€ 


170  HISTOaY  OP  THB  a.  d.  1542. 

Oeoi^ge  Day,  V ice-Chancenor ;  Ridhflrd  Standish  and  Thomas 
Cobbe,  Proctors ;-  Radolph  Berkerdike,  Mayor;  Doctors  of  Divi- 
nity, 3 ;  Doctor  of  Medicine,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  5 ; 
Masters  of  Arts,  19  ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  5 ;  Bachelors  of  Medi- 
cine, 2;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  19.     a.d.  1536-37- 

William  Buckmaster,  Vice-chancellor;  Gtilfridas  Gylpin  and 
Henry  Sanderson,  Proctors ;  Robert  Smith,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of 
Divinity,  2 ;  Doctors  of  Civil  Law,  2 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity, 
7 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  27 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  7 ;  Bachelors  of 
Arts,  35.    1537-38. 

William  Buckmaster,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Oliver  Ainsworth  and 
Alban  Ldngdale,  Proctors ;  Christopher  Franck,  Mayor ;  Doctors 
of  Divinity,  3 ;  Doctor  of  Civil  Law,  1 ;  Doctor  of  Medicine, 
1 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  4 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  20 ;  Bachelors  of 
Laws,  3;  Bachelors  of  Medicine,  3;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  42; 
Bachelor  of  Grammar,  1.     1538-^9. 

6 — 8.  Gardiner  made  Chcmcelior.   Contention  about  pronouncing  of 
Greek.     The  Champions  for  the  new  Mode.    An  inartificial 


Stephen  Gardiner  was  chosen  Chancellor  of  the  University.  He 
was  at  the  same  time  Master  of  Trinity  Hall,  which  he  was  pleased 
to  hold  for  many  years,  together  with  the  bishopric  of  Winchester. 

Francis  Mallet  and  John  Edmunds,  Vice-chancellors ;  Thomas 
Pull^  and  Edmund  Humphrey,  Proctors;  John  Chapman, 
Mayor ;  Doctor  of  Divinity,  1 ;  Doctor  of  Civil  Law,  1 ;  Doctor 
of  Medicine,  1;  Bachelors  oi  Divinity,  5;  Masters  of  Arts,  32; 
Bachelors  of  Laws,  6 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  30.    1539^40. 

Richard  Standish,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Henry  Bissel  and  Thomas 
"Vyest,  Proctors ;  William  Gil,  Mayor ;  Doctor  of  Civil  Law,  1 ; 
Doctors  of  Medicine,  2 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  4 ;  Masters  of 
Arts,  19;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  9;  Bachelors  of  Medicine,  2; 
Bachelors  of  Arts,  49.    1540-41. 

A  contest  began  now  betwixt  the  introducers  of  the  new  and  the 
defenders  of  the  old  pronunciation  of  Greek.  The  former  endea- 
voured to  give  each  letter  (vowel  and  diphthong)  its  full  sound ; 
whilst  Dr.  Caius,  and  others  of  the  old  stamp,  cried  out  against  this 
project  and  the  promoters  thereof,  taxing  it  for  novelty,' and  them 
for  want  of  wit  aiid  experience.  He  affirmed  Greek  itself  to  be 
barbarous,  thus  clownidhly  uttered ;  and  that  neither  France,  Ger- 
many, nor  Italy  owned  any  such  pronunciation. 

John  Cheke,  Thomas  Smith,  (both  afterwards  knighted,  and' 
privy  counsellors,)  maintained,  that  this  was  no  innovation,  but  the 
ancient  utterance  of  the  Greeks^  which  gave  every  letter  its  due  and* 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC  "       | 


36BSN1T  vui.  UNIVKRSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  171 

utiTe  30und.  Otherwise,  by  the  fine  speaking  of  his  opposers, 
rowels  were  confounded  with  diphthongs,  no  difference  being  made 
betwixt  >JiMS  and  Xoi/xo^.  Nor  mattereth  it  if  foreigners  dissent, 
seeiog  hereby  we  Englishmen  shdl  understand  one  another. 

Here  bishop  Gardiner,  Chancellor  of  the  University,  interposed 
lis  power;  affirming  Cheke^s  pronunciation  (pretending  to  be 
ancient)  to  be  antiquated.  He  imposed  a  penalty  on  all  such  who 
used  this  new  pronunciation ;  which,  notwithstanding,  since  hath 
prevailed,  and  whereby  we  Englishmen  speak  Greek,  and  are  able 
to  understand  one  another,  which  nobody  else  can. 

John  Edmunds,  Vice-chancellor;  Simon  Briggs  and  Edwin 
Sandys,  Proctors;  Robert  Chapman,  Mayor;  Doctors  of  Laws, 
2 ;  Doctors  of  Medicine,  2 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  9 ;  Masters 
of  Arts,  17 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  5 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  33. 
A.D.  1541-42. 

9.  The  Lord  Audley  builds  Maudlin  College.     The  Arms  thereof. 

Thomas  lord  Audley  of  Walden,  Chancellor  of  England,  by 
license  obtained  firom  king  Henry  VIII.  changed  Buckingham  into 
Magdalen  (vulgarity  Maudlin)  College,  because  (as  some  will  have 
it  *  )  his  simame  is  therein  contained,  betwixt  the  initial  and  final 
letter  thereof,  h  audleit  k.  This  may  well  be  indulged  to  his 
fimcy,  whilst  more  solid  considerations  moved  him  to  the  work 
itself.  As  he  altered  the  name,  he  bettered  the  condition,  of  this 
House,  bestowing  some  lands  thereon,  and  his  own  coat  for  the 
arms  thereof,  requiring  some  skill  (and  more  patience)  to  blazon 
them  ;  namely,  '^  quarterly,  per  pale  indented  or  and  azure,-|-  on  a 
bend ;  of  the  second,  a  tret  inier  two  marteless,  or ;  in  the  second 
and  third  quarter,  an  eagle  displayed  of  the  first.'^ 

10 — ^12.  An  ill  Neighbour  to  a  studious  College.    A  Monarch 

Master. 

This  College  alone,  cut  off  from  the  continent  of  Cambridge,  is 
on  the  north-west  of  the  river,  having  the  rose-garden  on  the  one, 
and  (what  is  no  rose)  a  smoking  brewhouse  on  the  other,  side 
thereof,  belonging  this  one  himdred  and  fifty  years  to  Jesus 
College.  It  were  no  harm  to  wish  this  House  either  removed,  or 
otherwise  employed  on  terms  mutually  beneficial  to  both  Societies, 

The  Scholars  of  this  College  (though  farthest  from  the  Schools) 
^ere,  in  my  time,  observed  first  there,  and  to  as  good  purpose  as 
any.  Every  year  this  House  produced  some  eminent  scholars,  as 
living  cheaper,  privater,  and  freer  from  town*temptations,  by  their 
remote  situation. 

•  Scektm  OmU,  us.  t'Thut  blazoned  bj  MiUv. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


172  HISTORY  OF  THK  a.0.  1646. 

Whereas  the  Masters  of  other  Houses  are  either  in  the  kingV 
gift  or  College-choice,  this  is  in  the  disposal  of  the  right  honourable 
the  earl  of  Suffolk,  hereditary  patron  of  this  foundation.  And 
nrhereas  much  of  aristocracy  is  used  in  other  Colleges,  more  of 
i&oharchy  appears  in  the  Master  hereof,  as  absolute  in  his  goTem- 
ment,  having  not  only  a  negative  voice,  but,  in  effect,  all  the 
affirmative,  in  making  elections. 

Masters. — ^1.  Robert  Evans.  2.  Richard  Carr.  3.  Roger 
Kelke.  4.  Richard  Rowland.  5.  Degory  Nicols.  6.  Thomas 
Nevile.  7.  Richard  Clayton.  8.  John  Palmer.  9.  Bamaby 
Goche.  10.  Henry  Smith.  11.  Edward  Rainbow.  12.  Jolin 
Sadler. 

Bishops. — 1.  Richard  Rowland,  bishop  of  Peterborough.  2. 
Geoige  Lloyd,  bishop  of  Chester.  3.  John  Bridgman,  bishop  of 
Chester. 

Benefactors. — 1.  !Henry  VIII.  2.  Sir  Christopher  Wray. 
3.  John  Spenliffe.  4.  Edmond  Grindall,  archbishop  of  Canterbury. 
5.  Thomas  Parkinson.  6.  William  Roberts.  7-  John  Hughes. 
8.  Thomas  Sutton.  9.  Frances  countess  of  Warwick.*  10.  John 
Smith,  Fellow. 

Learned  Writers.  -^— 

College-Livings. — Stanton  rectory,  of  Ely  diocess,  valued 
£Q.  128.  M. 

<  So  as  at  this  present  there  is  a  Master,  eleven  Fellows,  and  two- 
and-twenty  Scholars,  besides  Officers  and  Servants  of  the  foundatioD, 
with  other  Students ;  being,  in  all,  one  hundred  and  forty. 

13, 14.  A  good  Proffer.     Was  it  wisely  refused? 

Though,  at  the  present,  the  revenues  of  this  House  be  not  great, 
some  forty  years  since  it  was  in  a  fair  probability  of  a  large  addi- 
tion of  land,  had  the  suit  (related  at  large  by  the  lord  Coke,  in  his 
Report  of  Maudlin-College  case)  gone  on  their  side.  At  one  time, 
well  nigh  ten  thousand  pounds  were  tendered  in  composition,  (tlie 
interest  of  many  being  concerned  therein,)  so  suspicious  were  the 
defendants  of  their  success. 

But  Dr.  Goche,  Master  of  the  College,  being  a  man  of  a  high 
spirit,  well  skilled  in  the  laws,  and  confident  of  the  goodness  of  his 
cause,  would  listen  to  no  composition,  but  have  all  or  none.  He 
had  not  learned  the  maxim,  Dimidium  plus  toto^  in  this  sense, 
^^  Half  with  quiet  may  be  more  than  all  with  hazud  and  trouble.'^ 

-  •  She  waa  daughter  to  air  Christopher  Wray ;  and  (besides  one  Fellowship  and 
Schohirship  she  foonded)  intended  three  hundred  pounds  in  building  to  the  College,  had 
not  one  Hammerton,  an  old  servant,  (as  I  am  informed,)  deceived  her. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


38  HBinur  viii.  UNIVKBSITT  OF  CAMBRIDOE.  173 

It  was  removed  fiom  oommoiv-law  to  cbanoery,  where  the  College 
was  not  only  cast,  bat  the  Doctor,  with  Mr.  Smith,  a  senior 
Fellow,  lay  long  in  prison,  for  refusmg  to  obey  the  loid  Egerton^s ' 


15,  16.  Charitable  Mr.  Palmer.    Learning  rune  Unt. 

Amongst  the  worthies  of  this  House,  Mr.  Palmer,  B.D.  late 
minister  of  St.  Bridgets,  (commonly  BrideX)  must  not  be  for- 
gotten ;  a  pious  man  and  painful  preacher ;  who  (besides  many 
and  great  bene&ctions  to  ministers^  widows)  hath  built  and  well 
endowed  a  neat  alms-house  at  Westminster.  Verily  I  have  found 
more  charity  in  this  one  sequestered  minister,  than  in  many  who 
enjoy  other  men^s  sequestrations. 

Thomas  Smith,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Henry  Camberforth  and  Wil- 
liam Wakelyne,  Proctors ;  Thomas  Brakin,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of 
Divinity,  4 ;  Doctor  of  Laws,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  16 ; 
Masters  of  Arts,  26 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  4 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts, 
29.    A.D.  1542-43. 

Matthew  Parker,  Vice-Chancellor;  Edward  Cosin  and  Simon 
Bagot,  Proctors ;  William  Hasill,  Mayor ;  Doctor  of  Divinity, 
1 ;  Doctor  of  Medicine,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  13  ;  Masters 
of  Arts,  23;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  2;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  16. 
1543-44. 

John  Madew,  Vice-Chancellor;  William  Barker  and  Andrew 
Pern,  Proctors ;  James  Fletcher,  Mayor  ;  Doctors  of  Divinity,  6 ; 
Doctor  of  Laws,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  9 ;  Masters  of  Arts, 
18 ;  Bachelor  of  Laws,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  35.    1545-46. 

There  was  now  a  general  decay  of  Students,  no  College  having 
more  Scholars  therein  than  hardly  those  of  the  foundation;  no 
Volunteers  at  all,  and  only  persons  pressed,  in  a  manner,  by  their 
places  to  reside.  Indeed,  on  the  fall  of  abbeys  fell  the  hearts  of  all 
Scholars,  fearing  the  ruin  of  learning.  And  these  their  jealousies 
they  humbly  represented  in  a  bemoaning  letter  to  king  Henry 
VIII.  He  comforted  them  with  his  gracious  return;  and,  to 
conAite  their  suspicion  of  the  decay  of  Colleges,  acquainted  them 
with  his  resolution  to  erect  a  most  magnificent  one  with  all  speedy 
conveniency. 

17.  Trinity  OoUege  fotmded  by  King  Henry  VIII. 

Whereupon  he  seized  Michael  House  into  his  hands,  (whose 
yearly  rents,  at  old  and  easy  rates,  then  amounted  unto  one 
hundred  forty-four  pounds,  three  shillings,'  and  a  penny,)  and 
King^s  Hall,  the  best  landed  foundation  in  the  University.    Also 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


172 


HISTORY  OF  THK 


Wberets  die  Mtstets  oF  odicr  Houfles  aie  either  in  the 
gift  or  Cdkge-dioioe,  tliis  is  in  tlie  dii^oal  of  the  right  hon 
tlie  ead  o(  SoflRslk,  heredituy  jntnm  of  this  foundation. 
wheress  madi  of  aiistocncj  is  used  in  other  Colleges, 
moiutfdiy  sf^icais  in  the  libsier  hereof,  as  absolute  in  \v 
molt,  hATing  not  only  a  negatife  Toioe,  but,  in  effec 
affiimatiTe,  in  making  elections. 

Mastsks. — 1.  Robert  Efans.      2.  Richard  Carr. 
Kelke.      4.  Richard  Howland.     5.  D^^ory  Nicols. 
Neyile.      7-   Richard  Claytmu     &  John  Palmer. 
Ooche.      10.  Henry  Smith.      11.  Edirard  Rainbov 
Sadler. 

Bishops. — ^1.  Richard  Howland,  bishop  of  Pe 
Geoige  Llojd,  lush<^  o(  Chester.  3.  John  Brid 
Chester. 

Bknsfactoes. — 1.  Henry  VIII.     2.  Sir  C 
3.  John  Spenlifie.     4.  Eldmond  Orindall,  archbisl 
5.  Thomas  Paikinson.      6.  William  Roberts. 
8.  Thomas  Sntton.    9.  Fiances  countess  of  W: 
Smith,  Fellow. 

Lkabnsd  WaiTnns.  

College-Livings. — Stanton  rectory,  of    <. 
£6. 12*.  8d. 


.  be 

advised 

.  moiy,  to 

bad   lc&* 

uheison,  «lie 


.  So  as  at  this  present  there  is  a  Master,  elt 
and-twenty Scholars, besides  Officers  and  Sci v c 
with  other  Students;  being,  in  all,  one  liuhu.. 

13, 14.  A  yood  Projbr.     Was  it 

Though,  at  the  present,  the  revenues  o'' 
some  forty  years  since  it  was  in  a  fair  pr  * 
tion  of  land,  had  the  suit  (related  at  lar 
Report  of  Maudlin-College  case)  gone  on  • 
well  nigli  tLU  tltousand  pounds  ^vcr; 
interest  uf  iiiimj  being  concern od   i 
defendants  of  their  succes'^ 

But  Ur,  Ooelus  Ma  t^- 
spirit,  well  lakilleil  in  if, 
cause,  MtJtild  liJ^tcti  tu 
had  not  luarncd  the  l 
"  Half  witli  quiet  may  i 

-  *  She  "nuA  dftogb 
Scholariliip  ^\n^  fntib 
not  oue  ilHiiimi'  ri,,itj.| 


dlege,- 
^  own  aBnsiTe 

,.osophai.iffl»^ 


his  o^»r  it  ^*^' 

;:ge  in  (ln»»»3. 

wuies. 

.am  BiH    3L  Ji= 

*     qaeen  EEa»a^ 

7.   John  SaL   3. 

i^eoBSid*^-   ^' 


,^   of 
a  Jfaitin 


^MT^ 


79, 


Digitized  by  * 


lOogle 


'  '  "".,  in 

Jwud 

ramloT. 

•.  William 

AVTiitgift; 

liaiTow.     13. 

.    Peter  Shmw. 

7.    ^ir  Thomas 

la  Dr.  Robert 

Jit.     21.  Mr.  Sil- 

MaTj'^s  the  Great,  in 

Chesterton  licmragei, 

iV,  Sd.     Orwell  icctoiy, 

/>.  7  W«      Kendal  vicanige, 

.     Barington  vicarage,  in 

'  Is-.  4d.     Blj-the  vicarage,  in 

.  Ms.  4d.    Oryndon  [Grendon] 

iDiigh,  valned  at  ^8.     Fel- 

of   Lincoln,  •  valued    at  «fl3. 

(liocess  of  London,  valued   at 

uJrich]  vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of 

I  rail  [Swineshead]  vicarage,  in  the 

I   iU.  Oi.  9d.     CheduU  [CheadleJ 

ntry  and  Lichfield,  valued  Ht£12.9s. 

. :  >iL^c  and  King^s  Hall,  pages  57,  61. 

]o  arc  therein  maintained  one  Master, 

A  Scholars,  four  Conducts,  three  public 

.  ■  ')r   Scholars,   twenty  alms-men,    (besides, 

C'lioristers,  six  Clerks,  and  ten  Choristers,) 

luts  of  the  foundation,  and  other  Students; 

■r.d  forty. 

'/ft  Men  in  all  Professions^  ftitk  many  more 
limng. 

above  a  hundred  years  since  the  first  founding  of 

1  sec  how  marvellously  God  hath  blessed  it  with  emi- 

[»iofc5sions,  besides  the  bishops  afore-mentioned  ! 

N. — 1.  Sir  Francis  Bacon,  Lord  Chancellor  of  Eng 

Edward  Coke,  Lord  Chief  Justice.     3.  Sir  Edwan 

ir-Gcneral.     4.  Richard  Cosin,  LL.D.  Dean  of  the 

Digitized  by  ^QOQlC 


174  HISTORY  OF  THE  A.D.  1646. 

he  took  Pistewick's  Hostel,*  (a  House  unendowed,)  and  allowed 
the  Gonyillians  (still  grumbling  thereat,  as  not  sufficient  compensa- 
/  tion)  three  pounds  a-year  in  lieu  thereof,  till  he  should  give  them 
better  satis&ction.  Of  these  three  he  compounded  one  fair  College, 
dedicating  it  to  the  Holy  and  Undivided  Trinity,  and  endowing  it 
with  plentiful  revenues. 

18.  A  dutiful  Daughter. 

Queen  Mary,  calling  her  chief  clergy  together,  consulted  with 
them  about  public  prayers  to  be  made  for  the  soul  of  king  Henry 
her  father;  conceiving  his  case  not  so  desperate  but  capable  of 
benefit  thereby.  They  possessed  her  of  the  impossibility  thereof, 
and  that*  his  Holiness  would  never  consent  such  honour  should  be 
done  to  one  dying  so  notorious  a  schismatic.  But  they  advised 
her,  in  expression  of  her  private  affection  to  her  &ther^s  memory,  to 
add  to  Trinity  College,  as  the  best  monument  he  had  left; 
whereon,  chiefly  at  the  instance  of  bishop  Christopherson,  she 
bestowed  £2^Q.  10*.  Sc?.  of  yearly  revenue. 

19.  Magnisecant  Newly. 

Dr.  Thomas  Nevyle,  the  eighth  Master  of  this  College, — answer- 
ing his  anagram  most  heavenly,  and  practising  his  own  allusive 
motto,  Ne  vile  Telis^  being,  by  the  rules  of  the  philosopher,  himself 
to  be  accounted  ftgyaXoToiffwij^,  "as  of  great  performances,**' — for  the 
general  good  expended  three  thousand  pounds  of  his  own,  in  alter- 
ing and  enlarging  the  old,  and  adding  a  new  court  thereunto ;  being 
at  this  day  the  stateliest  and  most  uniform  College  in  Christendom, 
out  of  which  may  be  carved  thr^e  Dutch  Universities. 

Masters. — ^1.  John  Redman.  2.  William  Bill.  3.  John 
Christopherson.    4.  William  Bill,  restored  by  queen    Elizabeth. 

5.  Robert  Beaumont.  6.  John  Whitgift.  7.  John  Still.  8. 
Thomas  Nevyle.  9.  John  Richardson.  10.  Leonard  Maw.  11. 
Samuel  Brooks.  12.  Thomas  Cumber.  13.  Thomas  Hill.  14. 
John  Arrowsmith. 

Bishops. — 1.  John  Christopherson,  bishop  of  Chichester.  2. 
John  Whitgift,  archbishop  of  Canterbury.  3.  John  Still,  bishop  of 
Bath  and  Wells.     4.  Gervase  Babington,  bishop  of  Worcester. 

6.  William  Redman,  bishop  of  Norwich.  6.  Anthony  Rud, 
bishop  of  St.  David's.  7.  Godfrey  Gosborrough,  bishbp  of 
Gloucester.  8.  Robert  Bennett,  bishop  of  Hereford.  9.  Martin 
Potherby,  bishop  of  Salisbury.  10.  Godfrey  Goodman,  bishop  of 
Gloucester.      11.    Leonard    Maw,   bishop  of    Bath  and   Wells. 

•  In  a  preceding  page,  (42,)  Fuller  calls  this  Hostel  Phiswick's,  and  in  page  79, 
Fishwick's.— iSDiT. 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


38HENBTVIII.  UNIVEBSITT  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  175 

12L  John  Bowie,  bishop  of  Rochester.    13.  Adam  Loftus,  aich- 
bishop  of  Dublin.     14.  Dr.  Hampton,  archbishop  of  Dublin,  in 

Ireland. 

Benkfactobs. — 1.  Thomas  Allen,  clerk.  2.  Sir  Edward 
Stanhope,  who  gave  ^900  to  the  library.  3.  The  lady  Bromley. 
4.  George  Palin,  girdler.  5.  The  lady  Anne  Weald.  6.  Roger 
Jesson,  haberdasher.  ?•  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Elwis.  8.  Dr.  William 
Bill;  9.  Dr.  Robert  Beaumont;  and,  10.  Dr.  John  Whitgift; 
Masters  of  this  House.  11.  Dr.  Cosins.  12.  Dr.  Barrow.  13. 
Dr.  Skevington.  14.  William  Cooper,  esq.  15.  Peter  Shaw. 
16.  Sir  William  Sidley,  knight  and  baronet.  17.  Sir  Thomas 
Lake,  knight.  18.  Sir  John  Suckling,  knight.  19.  Dr.  Robert 
Bankworth,  Fellow.  20.  Sir  Ralph  Hare,  knight.  21.  Mr.  Sil- 
vius  Elwis,  still  in  the  College. 

Livings  in  the  Collkoe  Gift. — St.  Mary^s  the  Oreat,  in 
Cambridge.  St.  Michael's,  in  Cambridge.  Chesterton  vicarage, 
in  the  diocess  of  Ely,  valued  at  d^lO:  12«,  3d.  Orwell  rectory, 
in  the  diocess  of  Ely,  valued  at  .sPlO.  7*.  7irf.  Kendal  vicarage, 
in  the  diocess  of  Carlisle,  valued  at '  '  .  Barington  vicarage,  in 
the  diocess  of  Ely,  valued  at  £7*  14^.  4d.  Blythe  vicarage,  in 
tie  diocess  of  York,  valued  at  .^14.  9a.  4rf.  Qryndon  [Grendon] 
ricarage,  in  the  diocess  of  Peterborough,  valued  at  ^8.  Fel- 
mersham  vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of  Lincoln,  •  valued  at  <£13« 
13?.  4rf.  Ware  vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of  London,  valued  at 
^20.  &.  llrf.  Thunridge  [Thundrich]  vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of 
London,  valued  at  d^6.  Swinstead  [Swineshead]  vicarage,  in  the 
diocess  of  Lincoln,  valued  at  £14.  Os,  Qd.  Chedull  [CheadleJ 
rectory,  in  the  diocess  of  Coventry  aqd  Lichfield,  valued  at  dP12. 9$* 
See  the  livings  in  Michael  House  and  King's  Hall,  pages  57,  61. 

So  that  at  this  day  there  are  therein  maintained  one  Master^ 
sixty  Fellows,  sixty-seven  Scholars,  four  Conducts,  three  public 
Professors,  thirteen  Poor  Scholars,  twenty  alms-men,  (besides, 
lately,  a  Master  of  the  Choristers,  six  Clerks,  and  ten  Choristers,) 
^th  the  Officers,  Servants  of  the  foundation,  and  other  Students ; 
in  all,  four  hundred  and  forty. 

20,  21.  Eminent  Men  in  all  Profmiom^  with  many  more 
living. 

It  is*not  much  above  a  hundred  years  since  the  first  founding  of 
this  House  ;  and  see  how  marvellously  God  hath  blessed  it  with  emi- 
nent men  in  all  professions,  besides  the  bishops  afore-mentioned ! 

Statesmen.— 1.  Sir  Francis  Bacon,  Lord  Chancellor  of  Eng* 
land.  2.  Sir  Edward  Coke,  Lord  Chief  Justice.  3.  Sir  Edward 
e,  Vicar-General.     4.  Richard  Cosin,  LL.D.  Dean  of  the 

D^itized  byLjOOQiC 


J76  HISTORY  OF  THK  A.  D.  1646. 

Arches.  5.  Sir  Robert  Naunton,  and,  6.  Sir  John  Cooke,  both 
Principal  Secretaries  of  State.  7.  Mr.  John  Packer,  Secretary  to 
the  duke  of  Buckingham,  8.  Sir  Francis  Nethersole,  Secretary  to 
the  queen  of  Bohemia. 

Divines.— 1.  Thomas  Cartwright.  2.  Walter  Travels.  3. 
William  Whitaker.  4.  Matthew  Sutcliffe,  Founder  of  Chelsea 
College,  Dean  of  Exeter.  6.  John  Layfield,  6.  Thomas  Harrison, 
and,  7.  William  Dakings,  all  three  translators  of  the  Bible. 

Critics. — 1.  Edward  Lively,  one  of  the  best  linguists  in  the 
.world.  2.  Philemon  Holland,  an  industrious  translator.  3.  Wil- 
liam Alabaster,  most  skilful  in  cabalistical  learning.  4.  Edward 
Simpson,  who  hath  written  a  large  history,  the  mythological  part 
whereof  is  most  excellent.     6.  Robert  Creighton. 

Poets. — 1.  Walter  Hawkesworth,  an  excellent  comedian.  2. 
Giles  Fletcher,  [author]  of  «  Christ's  Victory.**'  3.  George  Her- 
bert, whose  piety  and  poetry  cannot  be  sufficiently  commended. 
4.  Thomas  Randolph. 

,  Dr.  Comber,  the  twelfth  Master  of  this  House,  must  not  be  for- 
gotten ;  of  whom  the  most  learned  Morinus*  makes  this  honour- 
able mention : — AUm  proeterea  codex  (Samaritanm)  cMratur^ 
et  dicitur  esse  a/rchiepmopi  Armachani^  et  ab  eo  e  Paicsstina  in 
Hibemiam  exportatus^  qui  Leydetmbm  Academicis  nonnvMo  tem- 
pore fmt  eommo^hxtus.  Istvm  codicem  mr  clarimmm  Thomas 
Comberm  Anffltis^  quern  honoris  et  officii  reddendi  causa  nominoy 
cum  textu  Judaico  terbum  e  verbOy  imd  literam  cum  litera  maxima 
diliffentid  et  indefesso  labore  compa/ra^ity  differentia^que  omnes 
juxta  capitum  et  Terstmm  ordinem  digestas^  ad  me  misit  Aumanis" 
0imi  et  officiosissimi. 

Beside  many  worthies  still  alive :  John  Hacket,  Doctor  of 
Divinity^  whose  forwardness  in  farthering  these  my  studies  I  can 
only  deserve  with  my  prayers :  Dr.  Henry  Feme,  whose  pen  hath 
published  his  own  worth  :  Master  Herbert  Thomdyke,  so  judicious 
and  industrious  in  setting  forth  the  mam,y-languaged  Bible :  Mr. 
James  Duport,  so  much  the  more  prized  by  others,  for  his  modest 
undervaluing  his  own  worth  :  with  many  more,  whose  number  Go4 
daily  increase ! 

22,  23.  King's  Professors  fotmded.     Catalogues  of  them  tery 


King  Henry  VIII.  with  Trinity  College,  founded  also  public 
Professors.  For  formerly  the  University  had  but  two,  one  of 
Divinity,  founded  by  the  lady  Margaret  countess  of  Richmond, 

•  InAnimad,m  Centuram  E»ercitationum  EcckHatticarum  in  PenUxteuchwn  Satna- 
riianum,  page  419. 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


38  SENRT  VIII.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  177 

(allowing  him  salary,  of  twenty  marks,)  and  another  for  Physic,  at 
tbe  cost  of  Thomas  Linacre,  that  excellent  critic,  tutor  to  prince 
Arthur,  and  afterwards  Doctor  of  Physic.  But  now  king  Henry 
added  to  these  a  Regius  Professor  in  Divinity,  Law,  Hebrew,  and 
Greek,  allowing  them  forty  pounds  per  annum^  and  increasing  the 
stipend  of  Physic  Professor,  now  acknowledged  as  only  of  the 
king^s  foundation.     But  see  the  catalogue. 

Lady  Margabet'^s  Professors.— John  Fisher,  President  of 
Queen^s  College,  bishop  of  Rochester.  Erasmus  Roterodamus. 
Thomas  Cosin,  D.D.  Master  of  Corpus-Christi  College.  John 
Fawn,  D.D.  President  of  the  University.  Thomas  Ashley,  D.D. 
Fellow  of  King's  College.  William  Sket,  D.D.  Fellow  of  King's 
College.  Robert  Beaumont,  D.D.  Master  of  Trinity  College. 
Matthew  Hutton,  D.D.  Master  of  Pembroke  Hall.  John  Whit- 
gift,  D.D.  Master  of  Trinity  College.  William  Chaderton,  D.D. 
President  of  Queen's  College.  Thomas  Cartwright,  Master  of 
Arts,  Fellow  of  Trinity  College.  John  Hanson,  Master  of  Arts, 
Fellow  of  Trinity  College.  John  Still,  D.D.  Master  of  Trinity 
College.  Peter  Baro,  a  Frenchman,  D.D.  of  Trinity  College. 
Thomas  Playford,*  D.D.  Fellow  of  St.  John's  College.  John 
Davenant,  D.D.  President  of  Queen's  College.  Samuel  Ward, 
D.D.  Master  of  Sidney-Sussex  College.  Richard  Holdsworth, 
D.D.  Master  of  Emmanuel  College.  Richard  Love,  D.D.  Master 
of  Corpus-Christi  College. 

King's  Professors  in  Divinity. — Dr.  Wiggin.  Martin  ■ 
Bucer,  D.D.  Dr.  Sedgwick.  Leonard  Pilkington,  D.D.  Master 
of  St.  John's  College.  Matthew  Hutton,  D.D.  Fellow  of  Trinity 
College.  John  Whitgift,  D.D.  Fellow  of  St.  Peter's  College. 
William  Chaderton,  D.D.  Fellow  of  Christ's  College.  William 
Whitacre,  D.D.  Master  of  St.  John's  College.  John  Overhall, 
D.D.  Master  of  St.  Catherine's  Hall.  John  Richardson,  D.D. 
Fellow  of  Emmanuel,  Master  of  Trinity.  Samuel  Collins,  D.D. 
Provost  of  King's  College.  John  Arrowsmith,  D.D.  Master  of  St. 
John's,  and  after  of  Trinity. 

King's  Law-Pbofessors. — Walter  Haddon,-f*  LL.D.  Fellow 
of  King's,  Master  of  Trinity  Hall.  Thomas  Bing,  LL.D,  Fellow 
of  St.  Peter's  College,  Master  of  Clare  Hall.  Thomas  Legg, 
LL.D.  Fellow  of  Jesus  and  Trinity  Colleges,  Master  of  Gonville 
and  Caius  College.  John  Cowell,  LL.D.  Fellow  of  King's  Col- 
lege, Master  of  Trinity  Hall.     Thomas  Morysonne,  LL.D.  Fellow 

•  He  is  called  Thomas  Hayford  hj  Le  Neve,  but  Pleyfer  and  Playfer  by  Fuller,  when 
^e  snbseqtiently  notices  |um  as  the  snccessor  of  Baro,  a.  d.  1595-6,  and  announces  his 
^eath,  A.D.  1604-5.     But  his  name  was  generally  written  Plaifere.— Edit.  t  Sir 

^omas  Smith,  [jtupta]  Rogeri  j4schami  Familiar,  Epist.  lib.  ii.  ad  Brandisbaum.  . 


Digitized  by 


L^oogle 


178  HISTORY  OF  THfi  ^.D.  1547- 

of  King's  College.     George  Porter,  LL.D.'  Fellow  of  Queen's  Col- 
lege.    Thomas;  Goad,  LL.D.  Fellow  of  King's  College. 

King's  Physic-Peofessors. — ^John  Blyth,  Doctor  of  Phy- 
sic, Fellow  of  King's  College.  John  Hatcher,  Doctor  of  Physic, 
Fellow  of  King's  College.  Thomas  Larkin,  Doctor  of  Physic,  of 
St.  Peter's  College.  William  Ward,  Doctor  of  Physic,  Fellow  of 
King's  College.  William  Burton,  Doctor  of  Physic,  FeUow  of 
King's  College.  John  Gostlin,  Doctor  of  Physic,  Master  of  Gon- 
ville  and  Caius  College.  John  Collins,  Doctor  of  Physic,  Fellow 
of  St.  John^s  College.  Ralph  Winterton,  Doctor  of  Physic, 
Fellow  of  King's  College.  Francis  Glisson,  Doctor  of  Physic, 
Fellow  of  Gonville  and  Caius  College. 

King's  Hebeew-Professors. — Mr.  Robert  Wakefield,  Fel- 
low. Anthony  Rodolphus  Cevallerius.  Mr.  Bignon,  a  French- 
man, of  Corpus-Christi  College.  Edward  Lively,  Fellow  of  Tri- 
nity College.  Robert  Spalding,  D.D.  Fellow  of  St.  John's  Col- 
lege. Jeffery  King,  D.D.  Fellow  of  King's  College.  Andrew 
Bing,  D.D.  Fellow  of  St.  Peter's  College.  Robert  Metcalfe, 
D.D.  Fellow  of  St.  John's  College.  Ralph  Cudworth,  Fellow  of 
Emmanuel  College. 

King's  Greek-Professors. — Erasmus  Roterodamus.  Rich- 
ard Crooke,  Fellow  of  King's  College.  Sir  Thomas  Smith,  knight, 
Fellow  of  Queen's  College.  Sir  John  Cheke,  knight,  tutor  to  king 
Edward  VI.  of  St.  John's  College.  Nicholas  Carr,  Fellow  of  Pem- 
broke Hall,  after  of  Trinity  College.  Bartholomew  Doddington, 
Fellow  of  Trinity  College.  Francis  Wilkinson,  Fellow  of  Trinity 
College.  Andrew  Downes,  Fellow  of  St.  John's  College.  Robert 
Creighton,  Fellow  of  Trinity  College.  James  Duport,  Fellow  of 
Trinity  College.     Ralph  Widdrington,  Fellow  of  Christ's  College. 

These  catalogues,  though  the  best  (not  to  say  only)  extant,  arej 
very  imperfect.  One  instance  I  will  give  : — William  Zoone,  here| 
omitted,  was  Regius  Professor  of  Law,  in  the  reign  of  queenj 
Mary.*     But  I  dare  not  alter  what  so  long  hath  been  received. 

John  Madew,-|-  Vice-Chancellor  ;  Thomas  Burman  and  ThomaS 
Carlyle,  Proctors ;  John  Pann,  Mayor ;  Doctor  of  Divinity,  1  % 
Doctor  of  Medicine,  1;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  7;  Masters  o| 
Arts,  15 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  29.     a.d.  1546-47.    1  Edward  Vli 

•  PiTZ-fflus,  De  Script.  Anglic,  page  'iQQ,  f  Instead  of  John  Madew,  U 

Neve's  list  furnishes  Matthew  Parker  as  being  this  year  (a  second  time)  Vice-Chancel 
lor ;  and  Fuller's  acconnt  does  not  agree  with  Le  Neve's  till  the  year  1653-4,  whel 
onr  historian  resumes  the  regular  series,  by  giving  the  names  of  Thomas  Gardiner  am 
Henry  Barely,  as  Proctors  for  that  year  and  the  preceding ;  which  was  not  coirect.- 
Edit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1  EDWARD  VI.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  17Q 

24—26.  The  Lord  Protector  made  Chancellor,  The  Insolencies 
of  the  Toumsmen,  AschanCs  Letters  procure  Friends  to  the 
University. 

Great  was  the  alteiation  which  followed  in  Cambridge,  upon  king 
Edward's  coming  to  the  crown.  Stephen  Gardiner,  Chancellor  of 
the  University,  was  put  out  of  his  office,  and  into  the  Tower, 
Edward  Seymour,  Lord  Protector,  and  duke  of  Somerset,  was 
chosen  in  his  room. 

The  townsmen  of  Cambridge  began  now  to  hope  their  time 
come,  to  cast  off  the  yoke  (as  they  counted  it)  of  the  University ; 
as  if,  on  the  alteration  of  religion,  the  ancient  privileges  of 
Scholars  should  be  abolished,  under  the  notion  of  superstition. 
Ungratefully,  therefore,  they  began  their  pranks ;  I  say,  ungrate- 
fully. For,  although  particular  Scholars  might  owe  money  to 
particular  townsmen,  yet  the  whole  town  owes  its  well-being  to  the 
University.  Amongst  their  many  insolencies,  two  were  most 
remarkable :  First,  one  Maxwell,*  by  profession  once  a  jail-keeper, 
then  a  bear-ward,  promoted  at  last  purveyor  to  provide  carriages 
for  the  king'^s  fish,  (which  commonly  came  from  Cambridge,)  seized 
on  an  ambling  nag  of  the  Master  of  Peter  House,  (which  the  old 
and  infirm  Doctor  kept  for  his  health,)  merely  that  his  man  might 
thereon  ride  after  the  king's  carriages.  This  horse,  I  may  say,  had 
a  lony-reach ;  the  injury,  seeming  small  and  personal,  concerned 
the  whole  University,  both  in  present  and  posterity.  Secondly, 
when  the  Proctors,  at  Sturbridge-fair,  had,  according  to  their 
office  and  ancient  custom,  fetched  out  many  dissolute  persons,  out 
of  vicious  places,  at  unseasonable  hours,  the  mayor  refused  to  give 
them  the  keys  of  the  toll-booth,  or  town-prison,  to  secure  such 
offenders  therein.  Yea,  when  they  had  carried  such  male&ctors  to 
the  Castle,  within  an  hour  or  two  comes  the  mayor's  son,  sets  open 
the  jaU,  and  lets  loose  those  lewd  persons,  to  the  great  injury  of  the 
University,  and  encouragement  of  all  >i^iciou8ncss. 

It  was  now  high  time  for  Dr.  Madew,  the  Vice-ChanccUor,  and 
Master  Roger  Ascham,  the  University-Orator,  to  bestir  themselves. 
The  latter  be-lettered  all  the  lords  of  the  privy-council,  and, 
amongst  the  rest.  Sir  Thomas  Wriothesly,  the  Lord  Chancellor  of 
England,  (  "whom,"  saith  he,  "  the  University  partly  commandcth, 
as  once  a  member,  partly  requesteth,  as  now  a  patron,  thereof,"  ) 
^th  some  gentlemen  of  the  king's  bed-chamber ;  and,  by  them, 
procured  the  confirmation  of  the  University-privileges  in  the  follow- 
ing parliament.  However,  these  oppidane  animosities,  in  some 
degree,  continued  all  this  king's  reign. 

*  Compare  Mr.  Ascham's  Letter  to  the  Birihop  of  Wincbestor  with  his  to  the  lord 
^'li'jthealy. 

N    2  Digitized  by  L^OOgle 


180  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1550. 

Matthew  Parker,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Edmond  Grindall  and  Ed- 
ward Gascoyne,  Proctors  ;  John  Rust,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divi- 
nity, 2  ;  Doctor  of  Civil  Law,  1;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  14; 
Masters  of  Arts,  26 ;  Bachelor  of  Laws,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts, 
30.     A.  D.  1547-48. 

27—29.    A  Prober  of  the  Protector's  to  unite  Clare  and  Trinity 
Hall ;  blasted  by  Bishop  Gardiner. 

The  lord  protector  by  letters  (which  I  have  seen)  solicited 
Stephen  Gardiner,  who  still  kept  his  Mastership  of  Trinity  Hall,  to 
resign  his  place  and  the  whole  Hall  into  the  king's  disposal ;  that 
so  of  that  and  its  neighbour  Clare  Hall  (whose  Master,  Dr. 
Madew,  may  be  presumed  compliable  with  the  Protector's  plea- 
sure) one  eminent  and  entire  College  might  be  advanced,  on  the 
king's  cost,  in  imitation  of  Trinity  College,  the  late  royal  result  of 
three  smaller  foundations ;  wherein  the  civil  -and  canon  law  (the 
skill  whereof  his  Grace  found  necessary  for  the  present  well-being  ot 
the  kingdom)  should  be  countenanced  and  encouraged. 

Most  politic  Gardiner,  not  without  cause,  suspecting  some 
design  or  casualty  might  surprise  the  interval  betwixt  the  dissolu- 
tion of  the  old  and  erection  of  this  new  foundation,  civilly  declined 
his  consent  to  the  motion.  He  informed  his  Grace,  that  the  way 
to  advance  the  study  of  the  laws  was,  by  promoting  the  present 
Professors  of  that  Faculty,  (now  so  generally  discouraged,)  and  not^ 
'  by  founding  a  new  College  for  the  future  students  thereof,  seeing 
Trinity  Hall  could  alone  breed  more  civilians  than  all  England  di(t 
prefer  according  to  their  deserts. 

Thus  was  the  design  blasted,  and  never  more  mentioned.  Bui 
Gardiner,  for  crossing  the  Protector  herein,  (and  other  misderaean^ 
ours,)  soon  after  was  outed  of  his  Mastership  of  Trinity  Hall,  and 
first  Dr.  Haddon,  then  Dr.  Mouse,  substituted  in  his  room. 

William  Bill,  Vice-Chancellor;  George  Bullock  and  Pliili] 
Baker,  Proctors  ;  Richard  Brakin,  Mayor ;  Doctor  of  Divinity,  1 
Bachelor  of  Divinity,  1 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  8 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts 
32.     A.  D.  1548-49. 

30.  An  extraordinary  Act  before  the  King's  Gommissioners. 
Commissioners  were  ^ent  from  the  king  to  visit  the  University 
namely,  Thomas  Goodrich,  bishop  of  Ely ;  Nicholas  Ridlei 
bishop  of  Rochester ;  sir  William  Paget ;  sir  Thomas  Smith ;  s 
John  Cheke  ;  William  Mey,  Doctor  of  Law  ;  and  Thomas  Wende; 
Doctor  of  Physic.  Before  these  an  extraordinary  Act  was  kej 
June  20th,  wherein  the  Questions  were,  "  1.  Whether  transul 
stantiation  can  be  proved  by  plain  and  manifest  words  of  Scri 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


4  fiDWARD  VI.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE,  181 

ture  ?  "  2.  "  Whether  it  may  be  collected  and  confirmed  by  the 
consent  of  the  Fathers,  for  these  thousand  years  past  ? ''  An- 
swerer: Dr.  Madew,  Protestant,  held  the  negative.  Oppo- 
nents: Dr.  Glin,  Masters  Langedale,  Sedgewick,  and  Yonge, 
Papists.  Moderators  :  his  majesty's  commissioners  above  men- 
tioned. 

June  24th,  Answerer  :  Dr.  Glin,  Papist,  held  the  affirmative. 
Opponents  :  Masters  Grindal,  Peme,  Gwest,  and  Pilkington, 
Protestants. 

June  25th,  Ansv^erer  :  Mr.  Peme,  Protestant,  held  the  nega- 
tive. Opponents  :  Masters  Parker,  (not  Dr.  Matthew  Parker, 
but  another  of  his  name,)  Pollard,  Vavasour,  and  Yonge,  Papists. 

Bishop  Ridley,  according  to  the  custom  of  the  University,  con- 
cluded all  with  a  solemn  determination.  But  tlie  transactions  of 
this  disputation  are  so  amply  reported  by  Master  Fox,  that  the 
sharpest  appetite  of  his  reader  need  not  fear  famishing,  if  he  can 
keep  himself  from  surfeiting  thereon. 

Walter  Haddon,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Andrew  Peerson  and  John 
Ebden,  Proctors ;  Alexander  Raye,  Mayor ;  Bachelors  of  Divi- 
nity, 9;  Masters  of  Arts,  17;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  26.  a.d. 
1549-^0. 

31.  Northumberland  made  Chancellor, 

Edward  duke  of  Somerset,  and  Chancellor  of  Cambridge,  was 
much  declined  in  his  power  at  Court,  though  surviving  some  months 
after.  Now  the  University  had  learned  to  live  by  the  living^  (in 
favour,)  and  not  by  the  dead ;  and  therefore,  chose  John  Dudley, 
duke  of  Northumberland,  Chancellor,  in  place  of  Somerset. 

32 — 35.  Bucer  and  Fagivs  called  to  Cambridge^  made  Profeasors 
there.  The  Death  of  Fagim.  Tremellim,  Hebrew  Professor 
in  Cambridge, 

Martin  Bucer,  and  Paulus  Fagius,  (in  Dutch,  Btwhlein,  or 
Beecher,)  living  formerly  at  Strasburgh,  at  the  instance  of  arch- 
bishop Cranmer,  were  sent  for  by  king  Edward,  to  become  Profess- 
ors in  Cambridge.  My  author,  a  German,  living  then  hard  by, 
makes  tbem  to  depart  thence,  Magistratiis  Argentinensis  voluntate 
^  consevwi^  whom  the  Jesuit  Parsons  will  have  both  banished  by 
that  State.  If  so,  the  disgrace  is  none  at  all,  to  be  exiled  for  no 
other  guilt  than  preaching  the  Gospel,  opposing  the  Augustan  Con- 
cession, which  that  imperial  city  embraced.  Besides,  the  greater 
the  providence,,  if,  when  commanded  from  one  place,  instantly 
called  to  another. 

Over  they  come  into  England,  and  last  year  were  fixed  ^  9???5le 

igi  ize     y  O      • 


182  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1551. 

bridge,  where  Bucer  was  made  Professor  of  Divinity,  Fagius,  of 
Hebrew.  The  former  had  the  ordinary  stipend  of  his  place  tripled 
unto  him,*  as  well  it  might,  considering — ^his  worth,  being  of  so 
much  merit — ^his  need,  having  wife  and  children — and  his  condi- 
tion, coming  hither  a  foreigner,  fetched  from  a  far  country.  So  it 
was  ordered,  that  Fagius  should  in  Hebrew  read  the  evangelical 
prophet  Isaiah,  and  Bucer,  in  Greek,  the  prophetical  evangelist  St. 
John. 

But,  alas  !  the  change  of  air  and  diet  so  wrought  on  their  tem- 
per, that  both  fell  sick  together.  Bucer  hardly  recovered ;  but 
Fagius,  that  flourishing  Beech,  (nature  not  agreeing  with  his  trans- 
planting,) withered  away  in  the  flower  of  his  age,  (as  scarce  forty- 
five,)  and  was  buried  in  the  church  of  St.  Michael. 

After  his  death  Emmanuel  Tremellius  was  sent  for  to  Cam- 
bridge, to  succeed  him  in  the  Professor's  place.  There  he  lived 
some  time,  on  this  token,  that  Dr.  Parker  preferred  him  before 
many  other  friends  to  be  godfather  to  his  son,  which  Tremellius 
accounted  a  great  favour.-|-  But  it  seemeth,  that,  soon  after,  either 
affrighted  with  the  valetudinous  condition  of  king  Edward,  or 
allured  with  the  bountiful  proflfers  of  the  prince  Palatine,  he  returned 
to  Heidelberg. 

John  Madew,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Ralph  Standish  and  William 
Coney,  Proctors ;  Christopher  Franck,  Mayor.  He  would  not 
take  his  oath  to  the  Vice-Chancellor  till  forced  by  the  Lord  Pro- 
tector's letters.J  Doctor  of  Divinity,  1 ;  Doctors  of  Civil  Law,  2 ; 
Doctor  of  Medicine,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  4  ;  Masters  of  Arts, 
X7 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  37.     a.  d.  1550-51. 

36.  Hmry  and  Gha/rles  Brandon  die  of  the  Sweating-Sicinm. 

Henry  Brandon,  duke  of  Suffolk,  son  of  Charles  Brandon,  by 
Catherine  lady  Willoubie,  died  at  Cambridge,  (where  he  was  a 
Student,)  of  the  sweating- sickness. 

Charles  Brandon,  duke  of  Suffolk,  younger  brother  to  the  same 
Henry,  died,  within  twelve  hours,  of  the  same  disease.  They  were 
much  bemoaned  of  the  University,  printing  a  book  of  verses  oi 
their  funerals ;  amongst  which  these  following  of  Dr.  Parkhurst^s, 
afterward  bishop  of  Norwich,  I  shall  endeavour  to  translate. 

Fratres  Amiclcei^  Pollux  cum  Castore^ 
Potuire  sic  cum  morte  depaciscier, 
Ut  cum  alter  eorum  esset  mortuus,  tamen 
Alter  superesset,  et,  reversis  sortibus, 

•  Pantaleon,  De  Illmtribus  Germanic.  t  See  Tremelliiis's  own  Prefac 

to  luB  Chaldee  Grammar.  %  Caius,  Hist.  Cant,  Acad,  lib.  i.  page  207. 

Digitized  by  tjOOQlC 


5EDWABDV1.  UNIVEIISITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  183 

Ficissim  ulerque  utriusque  morte  vivereL 

Cur  Parca  nunc  crudeliar  est  quam  olimfuit  ? 

Fralres  duos^  nuper  ea,  quales  haclenuSy 
■  Nee  vidit  unquaniy  nee  videbit  Anglia. 

I  Lumina  duo^  duoque  propugnacula 

'  Fortissima  virtutis  reique  puhlicoBy 

•  Mors  crudelis  (ah)  uno  peremit  funere 

Virtus  nequaquam  illam^  nee  egregia  indoles 

Movit^  nee  Edvardi  regis^  nee  optimce 

Matrisy  nee  tolius  gemitus  Britannias. 

O  duroy  dura  MorSy  O  sceva  numina  ! 

THE  SAME   IN  ENGLISH. 

Castor  and  Pollux,  brothers  pair, 

Breathing  first  Amide's  air. 

Did  with  Death  so  bargain  make, 

By  exchange  their  turns  to  take : 

If  that  Death  surprised  one  brother. 

Still  alive  should  be  the  other. 

So  the  bargain  was  contrived, 

Both  died,  both  by  turns  survived. 

Why  is  Fate  more  cruel  grown 

Than  she  formerly  was  known  ? 

We  of  brothers  had  a  brace, 

Like  to  which  did  never  grace 

This  our  English  earth  before, 

Nor  the  like  shall  grace  it  more. 

Both  bright  stars^;  and  both  did  stand 

Hopeful  bulwarks  of  the  land. 

Both,  alas  !  together  slain. 

Death  at  once  did  murder  twain. 

Nothing  could  their  virtues  move, 

Nor  king  Edward  s  hearty  love, 
i  Nor  their  best  of  mother  s  moans. 

Nor  all  Britain's  heavy  groans. 
I  Nothing  could  stem  Death  abate  : 

O  cruel,  over-cruel  Fate ! 

Many  in  Cambridge  died  of  this  sweating-sickness,  patients 
mending  or  ending  in  twenty- four  hours.  Some  sought  for  the 
!  natural  cause  thereof  out  of  the  heavens,  imputing  it  to  the  con- 
junction of  the  superior  planets  in  Scorpio.  Others  looked  for  it 
I  from  the  earth,  as  arising  from  an  exhalation  in  moist  weather  out 
I  of  gypseous  or  plasterly  ground.  The  cure  thereof  (conceived 
i  impossible  before,  and  easy  as  all  things  else  after,  it  was  found 
i    out)  was,  in  the  night-time  to  keep  him  in  [bed],  in  the  day-time 

I  .  Digitized  by  V^OOQlC 


184  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1563. 

(if  then  seized  on)  to  send  the  sick  man  (though  in  his  clothes)  to 
bed,  there  to  lie  still,  but  not  sleep,  for  four-and-twenty  hours.* 
Nothing  else  have  I  to  observe  of  this  sickness,  save  that  I  find 
foreigners  call  it  "the  English  sweating,*"  as  first  arising  hence; 
whilst  diseases  more  sinful  (though,  it  may  be,  not  so  mortal)  take 
their  names  from  our  neighbouring  countries. 

Andrew  Peme,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Edward  Hauford,  Thomas 
Yade,  and  Nicholas  Robinson,  Proctors;  William  Gill,  Mayor; 
Doctor  of  Divinity,  1;  Doctor  of  Civil  Law,  1 ;  Doctors  of  Medi- 
dne,  2 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  3  ;  Masters  of  Arts,  22;  Bachelors 
of  Laws,  3  ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  42.     a.d.  1551-52. 

37.  Several  Dates  of  Bucefs  Death. 

Martin  Bucer  ended  his  life,  and  was  buried  in  St.  Mary's ; 
several  authors  assigning  sundry  dates  of  his  death. 

Martin  Crusius  (in  Annal.  Sicev.  part  3,  lib.  ii.  cap.  25)  makes 
him  to  die  a.d.  1551,  on  the  second  of  February.  Pantaleon  (De 
Viris  illtistribm  GermanicB)  makes  him  expire  about  the  end  of 
April  of  the  same  year.  Mr.  Pox,  in  his  "  Reformed  Almanack,'' 
appoints  the  twenty-third  of  December  for  Bucer's  confessorship.f 
A  printed  Table  of  the  Chancellors  of  Cambridge,  set  forth  by  Dr. 
Peme,  signeth  March  the  tenth,  1550,  for  the  day  of  his  death. 
Nor  will  the  distinction  of  old  and  new  style  (had  it  been  then  in 
use)  help  to  reconcile  the  difference.  It  seems  by  all  reports,  that 
Bucer  was  sufficiently  dead  in  or  about  this  time. 

38.  A  loud  Lie  of  a  lewd  Jesuit. 
Persons,  the  Jesuit,J  tells  us,  that  some  believed  that  he  died  a 
iTew,   merely,  I   conceive,   because   he   lived  a  great  Hebrician; 
citing  Surius,  Genebrand,  and  Lindan  (ask  my  fellow  if  I  be  a  liar) 
for  this  report.     Sure  I  am,  none  of  them  were  near  him  at  his 
death,  as  Mr.  Bradford  and  others  vere  ;  who,  when  they  admo- 
nished him,  in  his  sickness,  that  he  should  arm  himself  against  the 
assaults  of  the  devil,  answered,  that  he  had  nothing  to  do  with  the 
devil,  because  he  was  wholly  in  Christ.     And  when  Mr.  Bradford 
came  to  him,  and  told  him  that  he  must  die,  he  answered,  lUe^  iUe 
regit^  et  moderatur  omnia^  and  so  quietly  yielded  up  his  soul. 
What  good  man  would  not  rather  die  like  a  Jew  with  Martin 
Bucer,  than  like  a  Christian  with  Robert  Persons  ?      He  was  a 
plain  man  in  person  and  apparel ;  and  therefore,  at  his  own  request, 
privately  created  Doctor,  without  any  solemnity ;  a  skilful  linguist, 

•  See  Camden's  Britannia  in  Shropshire.  f  Which  may  probably  intimate  his 

death  on  the  same.  j  in  Ug  «  Ewunen  of  John  Fox's  Saints'  Kalendar  for 

Pecember,"  page  330. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


1  MABir.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIBOfi.  Ig5 

whom  a  great  critic  *  (of  a  palate  not  to  be  pleased  with  a  common 
gust)  styleth  ter  maximum  Bucerum^  a  commendation  which  he 
justly  deserved. 

Edwin  Sandys,  Vice-Chancellor;  Thomas  Gardiner  and  Henry 
Barely,  Proctors ;  Thomas  Woolf,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divinity, 
4 ;  BEtchelors  of  Divinity,  16 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  19 ;  Bachelors  of 
Arts,  48,    A.D.  1552-53.     1  Mary. 

39..  Queen  Mary  secretly  passeth  into  Suffolk. 

The  lady  Mary,  after  her  brother^s  death,  having  heard  queen 
Jane  was  proclaimed,  July  11th,  came  five  miles  off  to  sir  Robert 
Huddleston's,  where  she  heard  mass.  Next  day,  July  12th,  Sir 
Robert  waited  on  her  into  Suffolk,  though  she,  for  the  more 
secresy,  rode  on  horseback  behind  his  servant ;  which  servant  (as  I 
am  most  credibly  informed)  lived  long  after,  the  queen  never  bestow- 
ing any  preferment  upon  him ;  whether  because  forgetting  him, 
(whose  memory  was  employed  on  greater  matters,)  or  because  she 
conceived  the  man  was  rewarded  in  rewarding  his  master.  Indeed, 
she  bestowed  great  boons  on  sir  Robert ;  and  amongst  the  rest  the 
stones  of  Cambridge  Castle,  to  build  his  house  at  Salston.-f*  Hereby 
that  stately  structure,  anciently  the  ornament  of  Cambridge,  is  at 
tliis  day  reduced  next  to  nothing. 

40 — 43.  Dr.  Sandys  preacheth  be/ore  the  Duke  of  Northumber- 
land, The  Dvk^s  retrograde  Motion.  Mead,  and  wonder  at 
human  Uncertainty.     The  hard  Usage  of  Dr.  Sandys. 

John  Dudley,  duke  of  Northumberland,  came,  July  15th,  to 
Cambridge  with  his  army,  and  a  commission  to  apprehend  the  lady 
Mary.  At  night  he  sent  for  Dr.  Sandys,  the  Vice-Chancellor, 
and  some  other  Heads  of  Houses,  to  sup  with  him.  He  enjoined 
the  Vice-Chancellor  to  preach  before  him  the  next  day.  The  Doc- 
tor late  at  night  betakes  himself  to  his  prayers  and  study,  desiring 
God  to  direct  him  to  a  fit  text  for  that  time.  His  Bible  opens  at 
the  first  of  Joshua,  and  (though  he  heard  no  voice,  with  St.  Angus- 
tine.  Telle  et  lege)  a  strong  fancy  inclined  him  to  fix  on  the  first 
words  he  beheld,  namely :  "  And  they  answered  Joshua,  saying, 
All  that  thou  commandest  us,  we  will  do ;  and  whithersoever  thou 
sendest  us,  we  will  go.*"  (Joshua  i.  16.)  A  fit  text  indeed  for 
him,  as  in  the  event  it  proved,  to  whom  it  occasioned  much  sancti- 
fied affliction.  However,  so  wisely  and  warily  he  handled  the 
words,  that  his  enemies  got  not  so  full  advantage  against  him  as 
they  expected. 


*  Vossius,  in  Thesi  de  Statu  AninuB  separata,  t  Caius,  Histt 

Digitized  by' 


IWcfgi^ 


186  HISTORY  OF  THE  ad.  1553. 

Next  day,  July  17th,  the  duke  advanced  to  Bury  with  his  army, 
whose  feet  marched  forward,  whilst  their  minds  moved  backward. 
He,  hearing  that  the  country  came  in  to  the  lady  Mary,  and  pro- 
claimed her  queen,  returned  to  Cambridge,  July  18th,  with  more 
sad  thoughts  within  him  than  valiant  soldiers  about  him.  Then 
went  he  with  (if  he  sent  not  for)  the  mayor  of  the  town,  and  in  the 
market-place  proclaimed  queen  Mary ;  the  beholders  whereof  more 
believed  the  grief  confessed  in  his  eyes  when  they  let  down  tears, 
than  the  joy  professed  by  his  hands  when  he  cast  up  his  cap.  The 
same  night  he  was  arrested  of  high  treason  by  Roger  Slegge,  Ser- 
jeant at  Arms,  even  in  King"'s  College,  which  is  fenced  with  privi- 
leges more  than  any  other  foundation  in  the  University.  Here 
Oxford-men  will  tell  us,  how  their  University  would  not  surrender 
up  Robert  Stillington,  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,*  when  in  the 
reign  of  king  Edward  IV.  convict  of  high  treason,  but  stood  on 
their  academical  immunities.  But  Cambridge  is  sensible  of  no 
privileges  inconsistent  with  allegiance ;  accounting,  in  the  first 
place,  "  God's  service  perfect  freedom,'^  and,  next  to  it,  loyalty  to 
her  sovereign  the  greatest  liberty.  As  for  the  duke,  though  soon 
after  he  was  set  at  liberty,  on  the  general  proclamation  of  pardon, 
yet  the  next  day,  July  19th,  he  was  re-arrested  of  high  treason, 
by  the  earl  of  Arundel,  at  whose  feet  the  duke  fell  down,  to  crave 
his  mercy ;  a  low  posture  in  so  high  a  person !  But  what  more 
poor  and  prostrate  than  pride  itself,  when  reduced  to  extremity  ! 

Behold  we  this  duke  as  the  mirror  of  human  unhappiness.  As 
Neville  earl  of  Warwick  was  the  make-Ki^o^  so  this  Dudley  earl 
of  Warwick  (his  title  before  lately-created  duke)  was  the  make- 
QUEEN.  He  was  -Chancellor  of  the  University  of  Cambridge,  and 
also  Senescallm  ("  High-Steward,^^  as  I  take  it)  of  the  town  of 
Cambridge,  two  ofiices  which  never  before  or  since  met  in  the  same 
person.  Thus,  as  Cambridge  was  his  vertical  place,  wherein  he 
was  in  height  of  honour ;  it  was  also  his  vertical^  where  he  met 
with  a  sudden  turn  and  sad  catastrophe.  And  it  is  remarkable, 
that,  though  this  duke  (who  by  all  means  endeavoured  to  engrand 
his  posterity)  had  six  sons,  all  men,  all  married,  none  of  them  left 
any  issue  behind  them.  Thus,  far  better  it  is  to  found  our  hopes 
of  (even  earthly)  happiness  on  goodness  than  on  greatness. 

Dr.  Sandys,  hearing  the  bell  ring,  went,  according  to  his  custom 
and  office,  attended  with  the  beadles,  into  the  Regent-House,  and 
sat  down  in  the  Chair,  according  to  his  place.  In  cometh  one 
Master  Mitch,  with  a  rabble  of  some  twenty  Papists,  some  endea- 
vouring to  pluck  him  from  the  Chair,  others,  the  Chair  from  him, 
all  using  railing  words  and  violent  actions.     The  Doctor,  being  a 

•  Brian  Twyne,  Antiq.  Acad,  Oxon.  page  263. 

•       Digitized  by  LjOOQIC 


1  MABY. 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE. 


187 


man  of  metal,  groped  for  his  dagger,  and  probably  had  dispatched 
some  of  them,  had  not  Dr.  Bill  and  Dr.  BIythe,  by  their  prayers 
and  entreaties,  persuaded  him  to  patience.  How  afterwards  this 
Doctor  was  spoiled  of  his  goods,  sent  up  prisoner  to  London,  how 
with  great  difficulty  he  was  enlarged,  and  [with]  great  danger  escaped 
beyond  the  seas,  is  largely  related  by  Master  Fox. 


44.  Masters  placed  and  displaced. 

Some  two  years  since,  Cambridge  liad  her  sweating-sickness,  but 
now  began  her  hot  fit,  or  fiery  trial  indeed.  For,  on  the  execution' 
of  the  duke  of  Northumberland,  Stephen  Gardiner,  bishop  of 
Winchester,  was  restored  Chancellor  of  Cambridge  ;  then  followed 
an  alteration  of  Masters  in  most  Houses.  I^owever,  let  us  give 
unto  Dr.  Peme  his  deserved  praise,  that  he  quenched  the  fire  of 
persecution  (or  rather  suffered  it  not  to  be  kindled)  in  Cambridge, 
saving  many  from  the  stake  by  his  moderation  ;  and  let  us  give  in  a 
list  of  the  great  alteration,  in  the  Masters  of  Houses,  which  the  first 
year  of  this  queen  did  produce. 


Masters  put  out. 


COLLEGES. 


1.  Ralph  Ainsworth,  be-     Peter  House. 

cause  he  was  mar- 
ried. 

2.  Dr.  John  Madew,  who     Clare  Hall. 

had  been  three  times 
Vice-Chancellor. 

3.  Nicholas  Ridley,  still     Pembroke  Hall. 

holding  his  Master- 
ship, with  the  bi- 
shopric of  London. 

4.  Matthew  Parker,  dean     Bene't  College. 

of  Lincoln. 

5.  William  Mouse,  Doc-     Trinity  Hall. 

of  Law,  and  a  bene- 
factor. 


6.  SirJohnCheke,  knight,     King's  College, 
tutor   to   king    Ed- 
ward VL 


MASTERS    PUT    IN. 

Andrew  Peme,  dean 
of  Ely. 

Dr.  Rowland  Swin- 
bum,  rector  of 
Little-Shelford  in 

•    Cambridgeshire. 

John  Young,  Fel- 
low of  St.  John's, 
a  zealous  Papist, 
and  opposite  to 
Bucer. 

Laurence  Maptyde, 
Fellow  of  Trinity 
Hall. 

Stephen  Gardiner, 
then  bishop  of 
Winchester,  and 
Lord  Chancellor 
of  England. 

Richard  Adkinson, 
Doctor  of  Divi- 
nity. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


188 


HISTORY  OF  THE 


A.D*  156S. 


MASTERS    PUT   OUT 

7.  William  May,  Doctor 

of  Law,  Chancellor 
to  Nicholas  West, 
bishop  of  Ely. 

8.  Edwin  Sandys.  Vice- 

Chancellor  in  this 
year. 

9.  Edward        Pierpoint,' 

Doctor  of  Divinity. 


10.  Richard  Wilkes,  Mas- 

ter of  the  Hospital 
of  St.  John's,  and 
Mary  Magdalene,  in 
Ely. 

11.  Thonjas  Leaver,   Ba- 

chelor of  Divinity, 
a  Confessor,  in  the 
reign  of  queen  Mary, 
at  Arrough,  in  Swit- 
zerland. 


COLLEGES. 


Queen's  College. 


Catherine  Hall, 


Jesus  College. 


Christ's  College. 


St.  John's  Coll. 


MASTERS    PUT    IN. 

William  Glyn,  Doc- 
tor of  Divinity, 
afterward  bishop 
of  Bangor. 

Edmund  Cosins, 
bom  in  Bedford- 
shire. 

John  Fuller,  pre- 
bend of  Ely,  Vi- 
car General  to 
Thomas  Thurlby, 
bishop  thereof. 

Cuthbert  Scot,  after- 
wards bishop  of 
Chester. 


Thomas  Watson, 
afterward  bishop 
of  Lincoln. 


I  find  but  two  continuing  in  their  places;  namely,  Thomas 
Bacon,  Master  of  Gonville  Hall,  and  Robert  Evans,  Master  of 
Magdalen  College,  then  so  poor  a  place,  that  it  was  scarce  worth 
acceptance  thereof. 

John  Young,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Thomas  Gardiner  and  Henry 
Barely,  Proctors ;  Thomas  Woolf,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divinity, 
4 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  16 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  19 ;  Bachelors 
of  Arts,  48.     A.  D.  1553-54. 

William  Gljmne  and  Cuthbert  Scot,  Vice-Chancellors ;  Thomas 
Baylie  and  Gregory  Garth,  Proctors ;  John  Richardson,  Mayor ; 
Doctor  of  Divinity,  1 ;  Doctor  of  Laws,  1 ;  Doctors  of  Medicine, 
2 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  3  ;  Masters  of  Arts,  33 ;  Bachelors  of 
Laws,  4  ;   Bachelors  of  Arts,  43.     1554-55. 

Cuthbert  Scot,  Vice-Chancellor ;  George  Boyse  and  John  Gwyn, 
Proctors;  Richard  Brassy,   Mayor;  Doctor  of  Canon  Law,  1  ;* 

•  That  was  the  last  Doctor  that  ever  commenced  in  Cambridge  of  Canon  Law  alone ; 
which,  as  a  distinct  faculty,  was  banished  by  king  Henry  VIII.  and  (it  seems)  for  a 
short  time  was  restored  by  queen  Mary. 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ  l€ 


6  «A»v.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  189 

Bachelors  of  Divinity,  6 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  27 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts, 
37.    1555-S6. 

Andrew  Pern,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Nicholas  Robinson  and  Hugo 
Glyn,  Proctors ;  Thomas  Smith,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divinity,  4 ; 
Doctors  of  Laws,  2 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  4 ;  Masters  of  Arts, 
27 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  5  ;  Bachelor  of  Medicine,  1 ;  Bachelors 
of  Arts,  27.     1556^7. 

Robert  Brassey,  Vice-Chancellor;  William  Golden  and  William 
Day,  Proctors ;   .William  Hasell,  Mayor ;   Doctors  of  Medicine,  _ 
2;  Bachelor  of  Divinity,  1;  Masters  of  Arts,  22;    Bachelor  of 
Laws,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  4L     1557-68. 

45— 5L  Dr.  Caius  foundeth  Caius  College;  giveth  it  good  Land, 
and  good  Building^  good  Statutes^  a  new  Name^  and  hiero- 
glyphicai  Arm.    No  violent  Papist. 
John  Caius,  Doctor  of  Physic,  improved  the  ancient  Hall  of 
Gonville  into  a  new  College,  of  his  own  name.     He  was  bom  in 
Norwich,  but  son  of  Robert  Caius,  a  Yorkshireman ;  spent  much 
of  his  time  in  the  Italian  Universities,  there  making  many,  trans- 
lating more,  learned  books ;  and  after  his  return  was  physician  to 
queen  Mary.      He  bestowed  a  fivefold  favour  on  this  his  foun- 
dation. 

First.  Land  to  a  great  proportion.  So  untrue  is  his  cavil,  Nea- 
do  quid  pauxiUvm*  as  if  it  were  some  small,  inconsiderable 
matter;  whereas,  indeed,  he  conferred  thereon  the  demesnes  of 
Crokesley,  in  Rickmansworth,  in  Hertfordshire ;  Bincombe  manor, 
in  Dorsetshire;  (with  the  advowson  of  the  parsonage;)  Runcton 
and  Bumhams-Thorp,  in  Norfolk;  the  manor  of  Swansly,  at 
Gaxton,  in  Cambridgeshire. 

Secondly.  Building ;  adding  a  new  court,  of  his  own  charge, 
and  therein  three  gates  of  remark  :  The  gate  of  humility,  low  and 
little,  opening  into  the  street  over  against  St.  Michael's  church : 
the  gate  of  virtue,  one  of  the  best  pieces  of  architecture  in  Eng- 
land, in  the  midst  of  the  College :  thirdly,  the  gate  of  honour, 
leading  to  the  Schools.  Thus  the  gates  may  read  a  good  lecture  of 
morality  to  such  who  go  in  and  out  thereat.  He  ordered  also  that 
no  new  windows  be  made  in  their  College,  new  lights  causing  the 
decay  of  old  structures. 

Thirdly.  He  bestowed  on  them  cordial  statutes,  (as  I  may  call 
them,)  for  the  preserving  of  the  College  in  good  health  ;  being  so 
prudent  and  frugal,  it  must  needs  thrive,  (in  its  own  defence,)  if 
but  observing  the  same.  Thence  it  is,  this  Society  hath  always 
been  on  the  purchasing  hand,  (having  a  fair  proportion  annually 

•  Res  Platanicus,  page  216  m  margine, 

y  Google 


Digitized  by  ^ 


190  HiSyORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1558. 

deposited  in  stock,)  and  indeed  oweth  its  plenty,  under  God,  unto 
its  own  providence,  rather  than  the  bounty  of  any  eminent  benefac- 
tor,— the  Masters  only  excepted,  who,  for  so  many  successions, 
have  been  bountiful  unto  it,  that  the  College  (in  a  manner)  may 
now  prescribe  for  their  benefaction. 

Fourthly.  He  gave  it  a  new  name,  to  be  called  Gonville  and 
Caius  College,  But  as  in  the  conjunction  of  two  Roman  consuls, 
Bibulus  and  Caius  Julius  Caesar,  the  former  was  eclipsed  by  the 
lustre  of  the  latter,  so  this  his  namesake  Caius  hath  in  some  sort 
obscured  his  partner,  carrying  away  the  name  of  the  College  m 
common  discourse. 

Lastly.  He  procured  a  coat  of  arms,  for  the  College  to  bear  it 
impaled  with  that  of  Gonville.  Indeed,  they  are  better  hierogly- 
phics than  heraldry,  fitter  to  be  reported  than  blazoned;  and, 
betwixt  both,  we  dare  adventure  on  them.  Namely,  in  the  field, 
or^  bescattered  vfiih  purple  ears  ofamarinth  ;  two  serpents  erected, 
aztire^  with  their  tails  nowed  or  knotted  together,  upon  a  pedestal 
of  marble,  tert,*  having  a  branch  of  semper  viimm  proper  betwixt 
their  heads,  and  a  book,  mble^  with  golden  buttons^  betwixt  their 
bodies  ;  wherein,  not  to  descend  to  particulars.  Wisdom  is  designed, 
in  a  stable  posture,  by  the  embracing  of  Learning,  to  attain  to 
uncomipted  immortality ;  -|"  or,  to  take  the  words  of  the  patent, 
ea^  prudentid^  et  Uteris^  mrtutis  petra  firmatis  immortalitas.  He 
lieth  buried  in  the  chapel,  under  a  plain  tomb  and  plainer  epitaph, 
as  without  words  having  one  word  fewer,  "  fui  Caius.'^ 

Some  since  have  sought  to  blast  his  memory,  by  reporting  him  a 
papist ;  no  great  crime  to  such  who  consider  the  time  when  he  was 
bom,  and  foreign  places  wherein  he  was  bred.  However,  this  I 
dare  say  in  his  just  defence, — ^he  never  mentioneth  protestants  but 
with  due  respect,  and  sometimes,  occasionally,  doth  condemn  the 
superstitious  credulity  of  popish  miracles.J  Besides,  after  he  had 
resigned  his  Mastership  to  Dr.  Legge,  he  lived  Fellow-Commoner 
in  the  College  ;  and,  having  built  himself  a  little  seat  in  the  chapel, 
was  constantly  present  at  protestant  prayers.  If  any  say,  all  this 
amounts  but  to  a  lukewarm  religion,  we  leave  the  heat  of  his  faith 
to  God's  sole  judgment,  and  the  light  of  his  good  works  to  men  s 
imitation. 

Masters. — ^1.  John  Caius.  2.  Thomas  Legge.  3.  William 
Branthwaite.  4.  John  Gostlin.  5.  Thomas  Bachcroft.  6.  William 
Dell. 

Bishops. — Francis  White,  bishop  of  Ely. 

Bknefactoes. — Matthew  Parker,  archbishop  of  Canterbury. 

•  No  natural  colour.  f  Sceleios  CantabHgio},  MS.  t  Historia  Cantab. 

lib.  i.  page  8,  Quanquam  Ulius  ccvi  ccccitas  admirationem,  Sfc. 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


6  MART.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  191 

Robert  Traps,  and  Joan  his  wife,  Joyce  Franklin,  their  daughter. 
Dr.  Wendie.  Dr.  Bishbie.  Dr.  Harvey.  Sir  William  Paston, 
knight.  William  Cutting.  Dr.  Legge.  Dr.  Branthwaite.  Dr. 
GostliD,  late  Master  of  this  House.  Dr.  Perse,  and  Dr.  Wells, 
late  Fellows. 

Learned  Writers. — ^John  White.     Francis  White.    

Fletcher,  famous  for  his  book  De  Urinis.  William  Watts,  D.D. 
He  set  forth  Matthew  Paris.     Jeremy  Taylor,  D.D. 

College-Living. — ^Bincombe  rectory,  in  the  diocess  of  Bristol, 
valued  at  £9.  Is.  5d. 

So  that  lately  (namely,  anno  1634)  there  were  one  Master, 
twenty-five  Fellows,  one  Chaplain,  sixty-nine  Scholars,  besides 
Officers  and  Servants  of  the  foundation,  with  other  Students ;  the 
whole  number  being  two  hundred  and  nine. 

52.  A  numerous  Nursery  of  eminent  Physicians. 

Dr.  Caius  may  seem  to  have  bequeathed  a  medicinal  genius  unto 
this  foundation,  as  may  appear  by  this  catalogue  :— 

1.  Stephen  Perse.  2.  William  Rant,  senior.  3.  William 
Harvey.  4.  Thomas  Grimston.  5.  John  Gostlin.  6.  Robert 
Wells.  7.  Oliver  Green,  8.  Nicholas  Brown.  9.  Joseph  Mickle- 
waite.  10.  Francis  Prujean.  11.  William  Rant,  junior.  12. 
Edmund  Smith.  13.  Richard  Curtis.  14.  Francis  Glisson.  15. 
Richard  London.  16.  Henry  Glisson.  17.  Robert  Eade.  18. 
Joseph  Dey.  19.  Thomas  Buckenham.  20.  William  Ringall. 
21.  Charles  Scarborough.  22.  Thomas  Prujean.  23.  Robert 
Waller.  24.  Abner  Coo.  25.  William  French.  26.  Christopher 
Ludkin.     27.  William  Bagge. 

All  bred  in  this  House,  Doctors  of  Physic,  and  extant  in  my 
memory :  such  a  little  Montpelier  is  this  College  alone  for  eminent 
physicians  !  And  now  we  take  our  leave  thereof,  acknowledging 
njyself  much  beholden  to  Master  More,  late  Fellow,  an  industrious 
and  judicious  antiquary,  for  many  rarities  imparted  unto  me. 

53,  54.  Cardinal  Pole  Chancellor  both  of  Cambridge  and  Oxford, 
His  Visitation  of  Cambridge. 
Upon  the  death  of  Stephen  Gardiner,  Reginald  Pole,  cardinal, 
archbishop  of  Canterbury,  was  chosen  Chancellor  of  Cambridge. 
I  admire,  therefore,  at  •  Master  Brian  Twyne's  pereinptoriness, 
^hen  aiBrming,  Reginaldus  Polus  non  Cantabrigiensis  (quod  Lon- 
dinensis  falsb  affirmat)  sed  Oxoniensis  fuit  Cancellarius^  if  he  was 
to  be  believed  before  our  records.  Indeed,  Pole  was  Chancellor  of 
both  Universities  at  the  same  time ;  and  as  now  Cambridge  chose 

•  De  Jlntiq.  Oxon.  page  383. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


192 


HISTORY  OF  THE 


A.D.  1669. 


an  Oxford-man  for  their  Chancellor,  Oxford  afterward  made  election 
of  one  of  Cambridge,  namely,  Richard  Bancroft,  archbishop  of 
Canterbury. 

The  cardinal  kept  a  visitation  in  Cambridge  by  his  power  lega- 
tine,  wherein  the  bones  of  Bucer  and  Fagius  were  burned  to  ashes, 
and  many  superstitions  established ;  so  largely  related  by  Mr.  Fox, 
our  industry  can  add  nothing  thereunto.  The  best  is,  the  effects  of 
this  visitation  lasted  not  long,  {being]  rescinded  in  the  next  year 
by  the  coming-in  of  queen  Elizabeth. 

Edmund  Cousin  and  John  Pory,  Vice-Chancellors;  Richard 
Smith  and  John  Bell,  Proctors  ;  John  Line  and  Milo  Prance, 
Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divinity,  2 ;  Doctor  of  Laws,  1 ;  Doctors  of 
Medicine,  2 ;  Bachelor  of  Divinity,  1 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  22 ; 
Bachelors  of  Arts,  28.     a.d.  1558-59.     1  Elizabeth. 

55.  Cambridge  visited  by  Queen  Elizabeth's  Commissioners, 
On  the  death  of  cardinal  Pole,  sir  William  Cecil,  afterward  lord 
Burgleigh,  was  made  Chancellor  of  Cambridge,  being  so  great  a 
friend  thereunto,  nothing  can  be  said  enough  in  his  commendation. 
Then  followed  a  visitation  of  Cambridge,  ju/re  regio^  wherein  with 
the  foresaid  Chancellor  were  adjoined  Anthony  Cook,  knight; 
Matthew  Parker,  William  Bill,  Richard  Horn,  James  Pilkington, 
Doctors  of  Divinity ;  William  May,  Walter  Haddon,  Doctors  of 
Laws ;  and  Thomas  Wendie,  Doctor  of  Physic,  and  physician  to 
her  Majesty.  What  alteration  this  produced,  the  ensuing  catalogue 
will  inform. 


MASTERS    PUT    OUT. 

1.  Dr.    Rowland    Swin- 
bum. 


COLLEGES. 

Clare  Hall. 


2.  Dr.  John  Young.  Pembroke  Hall. 


3.  Dr.  William  Mouse. 

4.  Dr.  Robert  Brassey. 

5.  Thomas  Peacock,  Ba- 

chelor of  Divinity. 

6.  Dr.  Edmund  Cosins. 

7.  Dr.  John  Fuller. 

8.  Dr.  William  Taylor. 

9.  Dr.  George  Bullock. 


Trinity  Hall. 
King's  College. 
Queen"'s  College. 

Catherine  Hall. 
Jesus  College.  • 

Christ  College. 

St.  John's  College. 


MASTERS    PUT   IN. 

Dr. '  John  Madew, 
thrice  Vice-Chan- 
cellor. 

Dr.  Edmund  Grin- 
dal. 

Dr.  Henry  Harvey. 

Dr.  Philip  Baker. 

Dr.  William  May, 
restored. 

Dr.  John  Maj^. 

Dr.  Thomas  Red- 
man. 

Dr.  Edmund  Haw- 
ford. 

Dr.  James  Pilkin- 
ton. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


;  ELIZABETH.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  193 

MASTERS    PUT    OUT.  COLLE^GES.  MASTE'BS    PUT    IN. 

10.  Dr.  Richard  Car  (sed    Magdalen  College.    Dr.  Roger  Kelke. 

qwBre). 

11.  Dr.  John  Christopher-    Trinity  College.        Dr.  William  Bill, 

son,   bishop   of  Chi-<  restored, 

chesior. 

Dr.  Caius,  Master  of  his  own  College,  (and  very  good  reason,) 
still  contmued  therein,  so  did  Dr.  Andrew  Feme  in  Peter  House. 
Hence  the  Scholars  in  merriment  made  (and  for  some  years  kept) 
the  Latin  word,  (unknown  in  that  sense  to  Varro  or  Priscian,) 
Pemo^  "  to  turn  or  change  often,'**  avouched  by  no  other  author  than 
this  Doctor's  unconstancy.  However^  let  us  not  be  over  cruel  to 
his  memory,  for  not  suffering  for  his  own— who  was  so  kind  and 
careful  to  keep  others  from  suffering  for  their — conscience. 

Andcew  Peme,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Bartholomew  Dodington  and 
George  Fuller,  Proctors ;  X^omas  Ventris,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of 
Laws,  3 ;  Doctor  of  Medicine,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  6 ;  Mas- 
ters of  Arts,  25 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  60.     a.  d.  1559^-60. 

Hfeniy  Harvey,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Anthony  Giblington  and 
Jdhn  Cowell,  Proctors ;  Roger  Slegg,  Mayor ;  Doctor  of  Laws, 
1 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  9 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  31 ;  Bachelor  of 
Laws,  1;  Bachelors  of  Music,  2;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  53; 
1560-61. 

Philip  Baker,  Vicc;Chancellor^  William  Masters  and  George 

Blyihe,  Proctors;  Thomas Kimbold,  Mayor;  Doctor  of  Divinity, 

1  ;    Doctors  of  Laws,  2;  Doctor  of  Medicine,  1;  Bachelors  of 

Divinity,  8 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  20 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  3 ;  Bache- 

.  lore  of  Arts,  51.    1561-62. 

Francis  Newton,  Vice-Chancellor;  Andrew  Oxenbridge  and 
John  Igulden,  Proctors ;  Henry  Serle,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divi- 
nity, 3  ;  Doctor  of  Laws,  1 ;  Doctor  of  Medicine,  1 ;  Bachelors 
of  Divinity,  4;  Masters  of  Arts,  44;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  7; 
Bachelors  of  Arts,  80.    1562-63. 

Edward  Hawford,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Richard  Curtesse  and  Henry 
Worley,  Proctors ;  Robert  Cano,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divinity, 
12 ;  Doctor  of  Medicine,  2 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  4 ;  Masters 
of   Arts,  39;    Bachelors  of  Laws,  2;    Bachelois  of   Arts,    71- 

i56a-e4. 

Robert  Beaumont,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Thomas  Bing  and  Bartho- 
lomew Chirt,  Proctors;  William  Munsey,  Mayor;  Doctor  of 
Divinity,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  7 ;  Masters  of  ATta,  27 ; 
Bachelors  of  Arts,  85.    1564-65. 

^  Digitized  by  LjOOQIC 


194  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1664. 

Now  began  a  great  difference  in  Trinity  College,  betwixt  Dr. 
Beaumont,  Master  thereof,  and  some  in  that  Society,  which  hath  its 
influence  at  this  day  on  the  Church  of  England ;  whereof  hereafter. 


SECTION  VIII. 

TO  FRANCIS  ASH,  OF  LONDON,  ESQUIRE. 

It  is  the  life  of  a  gift,  to  be  done  in  the  life  of  the 
giver ;  far  better  than  ftineral  legacies,  which,  like  Ben- 
jamin,  are  born  by  the  loss  of  a  parent.  For,  it  is  not 
so  kindly  charity,  for  men  to  give  what  they  can  keep 
no  longer :  besides,  such  donations  are  most  subject  to 
abuses. 

Silver  in  the  living 

Is  gold  in  the  giving ; 

Gold  in  the  dying 

Is  hut  silver  a-fljing ; 
Gold  and  silver  in  the  dead 
Tom  too  often  into  lead. 

But  you  have  imade  your  oWn  hands  executors ;  and 
eyesj  overseers ;  so  bountiful  to  a  flourishing  foundation 
in  Cambridge,  that  you  are  above  the  standard  of  a 
benefactor.*  Longer  may  you  live,  for  the  glory  of 
God,  and  good  of  his  servants  1 

1 — 3.  Qtteen  Mizdbeth  comes  to  C(mbridge.    Her  OroHon  to  ihB\ 
University.    Noblemen  made  Masters  of  Arts,  \ 

Queen  Elizabeth,  partly  to  ease  herself  with  some  recreation,  partlfj 
to  honour  and  encourage  learning  and  religion,  came  to  Cambridgeii 
Aug,  5  th,  where  she  remained  five  whole  days,  in  the  lodgings  of  thi 
Provost  of  King's  College.  She  was  entertained  with  comedieaJ 
tragedies,  orations,  (whereof  one  most  eloquent,)  made  by  WilKaia 
Masters,  (the  Public  Orator,)  disputations,  and  other  academical 
exercises.  She  severally  visited  every  House ;  and  at  her  departr 
ure,  August  10th,  she  took  her  leave  of  Cambridge,  with  thil 
following  oration :—  j 

i 

•  See  a  rocceeding  page,  (207).— Epp.^^^T^ 
Digitized  by  VjVJL^ V IV^ 


5  BUZABBTH.  UNIVBRSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  195 

EtsifminUis  iHe  meu$  pudpr  (subditi  Jidelissifni  ei  Acadmia 

darissimaj  in  tantA  chotarum  tarbd  iUaboratum  huno  sermonem  et 

mttionem  m  fMfrare  apud  w>8  impediat ;  tamen  nobilium  meanun 

itUereeuuSj  et  erga  Academiam  benevoleniia  me  aliqua  projerre 

invitat.    Ducbm  ad  kanc  rem  eHmtdis  mav^or.    Primus  eH  bona- 

rum  literarum  propaga^io.    Alter  est  9eetra  omnium  expeotoHo. 

Quod  ad  prapagatUmmn  epeotat^  unum  iUud  apud  DemoeAenem 

fnemini:    ^^Superiorum  wrba  apud    in/erioree  librarum  loeum 

hahenty  et  prineipum  dicta  kffvm  avtihoritatem  apvd  subditas  reti^ 

Mnt.'"    Hoc  igitwr  vos  amnes  in  memoria  tenere  velim,  quod  semita 

fttt&9  prcestantior  est  ei^  ad  bona  foHunce  acquirenda^  rite  ad 

prineipum  gratiam  conciliandam^  quim  ^gramter-(ut  ceqnstie)  etu- 

diis  vesttie  eschibearie  operam:  quod  ut  faeiaiie  vos  omnee  oro  obse- 

croque.  De  aecundo  stimuloj  veetrd  nimiriim  eapeetatione^  hoc  unum 

iieoy  me  nihil  libenter  prcetermieeuram  esscy  quod  vestra^  de  me 

^mm  benmoke  conmpiunt  cogiiaiumee.     Jam  ad  Academican 

M^io:  tempore  antemeridiano  vidi  ego  adificia  vestm  eumpttma  a 

mis  majoribus  darierimie  principibus  literarum  causd  extructa^  et 

i^nter  ridendum  dolor  artue  meos  ocoupavit^  cUque  ea  mentis  suqdria 

qucB  Aleaaadrum  qtwadam  tenuisse  feruntttr ;   qui  cum  legisset 

f^ttftcv  a  principibm  monumenta^  comwrsus  ad  famiHarem^  seu 

potius  ad  comUiarium,  multiim  doluit  se  nihil  tcde  fecisse.    ^Ecec 

^mm  tulgcms  sentewtia  me  aliqwmtikm  recreamt^  quae  etri  non 

^uferrcy  iamm  minuercy  potest  dolorem ;  qua  quidem  senteniia  hose 

^  *  **  Bomam  non  uno  dBdifieaiamjfuisse  dieJ^     Tamen  nonestita 

senilis  mea  cetas^  nee  tarn  diH  fui  ex  quo  regnareccepij  quin  ante 

redditionem  dMti  noOwnjB  (ri  non  nimiseitd  Atropos  lineam  mtce 

^^^  amputiiiperit)  aUquod  opus  faciam,  et  quaandtiL  mta  hos  regit 

^^ius  nunquam  a  proposito  d^Mam.     Et  ri  contingat  (quam  ritd 

fitturufn  si4^  nefioia)  me  mori  oportere^  priuequdm  hoc  ipsum  quod 

pdOieeor  cpmplere  pirnmyoHqupd  tamen  egregium  opus  post  mortem 

reUnqiMm%  j^  it  metnoria  iMi  in  posterum  Celebris  fiai^  et  alios 

^seritem.eiifemplo  meo^et  f>os  omnes  alacriores  faciamad  studia  9es- 

ira.    Bed  jam  mdetis  quantum  interrit  inter  d&o^namlectamyet 

disciplinam  animo  Aon  retenfaifn.     Quorum  JoUerius  sunt  cornplwres 

^tis  st^fidentes  testes,  alterius  autem  tos  omnes  nimis  quidem 

inconsiddraH  testes  hoe  temped  ^ffieciy  quoe  meo  barbaro  orarionis 

genere  tarn  dii>  doatas  ^estras  aures  detinuerim.    Dixi. 

At  that  time  (he  Degree  of  Master. of  Arts  was  conceked  to  tcS^ 
a  degree,  add  itself  wmmenoed  in  honour  when  the  following  ipeen 
a&d  noble  peisons  weie,  in  the  Begent-Hottse,  csreittted  Mastets  of 
Arts: — Thomas  Howard,*  duke  of  Norfolk;  Edward  Vere,  «arl 
of  Osford  \  Ambrose  Ihidley,  earl  of  Warwick  ;  Edward  Manners, 

*  Caius,  Hisforia  jlcad,  Can^o^.. page  88.  .  t 

,^    2  Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


196  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.  0.1567. 

earl  of  Rutland;  Thomas  Ratclyf,  earl  of  Sussex  ;  Robert  Dudley, 
earl  of  Leicester;  Edward  Clinton,  high  admiral  of  England; 
William  Howard,  lord  chamberlain ;  Henry  Carew,  lord  Hunsden ; 
sir  William  Cecil,  secretary  ;  sir  Francis  Knolls,  vice-chamberlain ; 
Thomas  Heneage,  esq.  John  Ashley,  esq.  Richard  Bartue,  esq. 
William  Cooke,  esq.  Edmond  Cooke,  esq. 

Thus,  Acts  being  ended.  Degrees  conferred,  University-OfiScers 
well  rewarded,  and  all  persons  pleased,  her  majesty  went  on  m  her 
progress,  and  the  Scholars  returned  to  their  studies. 

4,5.  The  first  Cause  of  Mr.  CartwrigMs  Discontentment.  The 
.same  disavowed  by  his  Followers. 
And  yet  we  find  one  great  Scholar  much  discontented,  if  my 
author  *  may  be  believed ;  namely,  Mr.  Thomas  Cartwright.  He 
and  Thomas  Preston  <then  Fellow  of  King's  College,  afterwards 
Master  of  Trinity  Hall)  were  appointed  two.  of  the  four  dis- 
putants in  the  Philosophy-Act,  before  the  queen.  Cartwright  had 
dealt  most  with  the  Muses,  Preston  with  the  Graces,  adorning  his 
learning  with  comely  carriage,  graceful  gestiure,  and  pleasing  pro- 
nunciation. Cattwright  disputed  like  a  great^  Preston  like  a  gen- 
teel^  scholar,  being. a  handsome  man ;  and  the  queen,  upon  parity 
of  deserts,  always  prefewed  propemess  of  person  in  conferring  her 
favours*  Hereupon,  with  her  looks,  words,  and  deeds,  she  favoured 
Preston,  calling  him  her  scholar,  as  appears  by  his  epitaph,  in  Tri- 
nity-Hall chapel,  which  thus  beginneth  :— 

-Cinder U  hociumulo  Thomd  Presiane,  schoiarem 
rQuem  disit  ptinceps  Elizabetha  suuan. 

Insomuch,  that,  for  his  good  disputing,  and  excellent  acting  in  the 
tragedy  of  "Dido,''  she  bestowed  on  him  a  pension  of  twenty 
pounds  a-year;  whilst  Mr.  Cartwright,  saith  my  aiithor,-|*  received 
neither  reward  nor  commendation,  whereof  he  not  only  complained 
to  his  inward  Mends  in  Trinity  College,  but  also,  after  her  majesty's 
neglect  of  him,  began  to  wade  into  divers  opinions  against  her  eccle- 
siastical government. 

But  Mt.  Cartwright's  followers  (^o  -lay  the  fonndation  of  his 
^saffection  to  the  discipline  established  in  his  conscience,  not 
<Hin>al  discor^entment)  credit  not  the  relation ;  adding  moreover, 
that  the  queen  did  highly  comm^end,J  though  not  reward,  him. 
But,  whatever  was  the  cause,  soon  after,  he  went  beyond  the  seas, 
and  after  his  travels  returned  a  bitter  enemy  to  the  hierarchy. 

John  Stokes,  Vice-Chancellor;  Thomas  Bing  and  Thomas  Pres- 

•  Sir  Geobob  Paul,  in  «  The  Life  of  Archbishop  Whitgift,"  page  7.  t  See 

Mr.  Hatcher's  m  s.  of  the  FeUows  of  King's  College,  1663.  J  See  his  «  Life/' 

lately  set  forth  by  Mr.  Clarke. 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ  l€ 


9  ELIZABETH.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDOK.  197 

ton,  Proctors ;  Christopher  Fletcher,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divinity, 
2;  Doctor  of  Medicine  1 ;  Bachelor  of  Divinity,  1 ;  Masters  of 
Arts,  46;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  2;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  86.  a.i>. 
1564^65; 

Robert  Beaumond  and  Roger  Kelke,  Vice-Chancellors  ;  Nicho- 
las Shepheaid  and  Edward  Deering,  Proctors;  Alexander  Ray, 
Mayor  v  Doctors  of  Divinity,  4 ;  Doctor  of  Laws,  1 ;  Doctors  of 
Medicine,  4;  Masters  of  Arts,  45  ;  Bachelor  of  Laws,  1 ;  Bache- 
lors of  Arts,  86.     1565-66. 

Richard  Longworth,  Vice-chancellor ;  Christopher  Lindley  and 
John  Dawbeny,  Proctors ;  Thomas  Kimbold,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of 
Divinity,  0 ;  Doctors  of  Laws,  2 ;  Doctor  of  Medicine,  1 ;  Bache- 
lors of  Divinity,  4 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  59;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  2; 
Bachelor  of  Medicine,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  ArU,  118.     1566-67. 

6, 7.  The  Factions  in  Trinity  OoUege.     WhUgift  and  Cartwright 
clash  in  the  Schools. 

John  Whitgift,  Master  of  Pembroke  Hall,  is  made  Master  of 
Trinity  College,  which  he  found  distempered  with  many  opinions, 
^hich  Mr.  Cartwright,  lately  returned  from  beyond  seas,  had  raised 
therein ;  and  on  a  Sunday,  July  4th,  in  Dr.  Whitgift's  absence, 
Mr.  Cartwright  and  two  of  bis  adherents  made  three  sermons  on 
one  day  in  the  chapel,  so  vehemently  inveighing  against  the  cere- 
monies of  the  church,  that  at  evening  prayer  alt  the  Scholars,  save 
three,  (namely,  Dr.  Legge,.  Mr.  West,  Whitaker's  tutor,  and  the 
Chaplain,)  cast  off  their  surplices,  as  an  abominable  lelic  of  super- 
stitioft.* 

Whitgifk  was  Master  of  iihe  College,  and*  the  queen^s  [Professor 
of  Divinity],  Cartwright  but  Fellow  thereof,  and  the  lady  Marga- 
ret^s  Professor  of  Divinity.  Great  clashing  was  now  in  the  Schools, 
when  one  Professor  impugned — ^the  other  asserted—- the  church- 
<liscipline  m  England.  Cartwrighi's  followers  would  fain  have  it 
believed,  that  the  emulation,  was  inflamed  betwixt  them,  because 
^V^hitgift's  lectures  and  sermons  were  not  so-  frequented,  whilst  all 
flocked  after  Cartwright ;  insomuch  that  when  he  preached  at  St. 
Mary's,  the  clerk  thereof  was  fiun  to  lake  down  the  windows  of  the 
church.  Yea^  Mr.  Cartwright  did  not  only  oppose  the  matter,  but 
also  the  manner  and  method,  of  Mr.  Whitgift's  lectures,  as  may 
appear  by  what  afterwards  was  printed  by  both,  the  one  objecting 
what  is  thus  answered  by  the  other. 

Thomas  Cartwbight.— ■"  They  which  have  heard  Mr.  Doctor 
read  in  the  Schools  can  tell  that  he,  being  there  amongst  learned 
^en^  never  used  to  reduce  the  contrary  arguments  of  the  adversa- 
•  Sir  George  Paul,  in  "  Whitgift'd  Life,"  page  9. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


IgB  HISTORY  OF  THE  A.D.16n. 

ries  to  the  places  of  the  fallaciouB ;  and  yet  that  iras  the  fittest 
place  for  him  to  haye  showed  his  knowledge  in,  because  there  they 
should  have  been  best  understood."  * 

John  Whitgift.—"  Touching  my  reading  in  the  Schools, 
(whicb  you  here  opprobriously  object  unto  ine,)  though  I  know 
that  the  UniTcrsity  luid  a  far  better  opinion  of  me  than  I  detofed, 
and  that  there  were  a  great  many  wtidh  were  in  all  respects  better 
able  to  do  that  office  than  myself,  yet  I  trust  I  did  my  duty,  and 
satisfied  them.  What  logic  I  uttered  in  my  lectiures,  and  how  I 
read,  I  refer  to  their  judgments ;  who  surely,  if  they  suffered  me  so 
long  to  continue  in  that  place,  augmented  the  stipend  for  my  sake) 
and  were  so  desirous  to  have  me  still  to  remain  in  that  function, 
(reading  so  unleamedly  as  you  would  make  the  world  believe  I 
did,)  may  be  thought  either  to  be  without  judgment  themsdlTes,  ot 
else  to  have  been  very  careless  for  that  exercise.'^  + 

The  result  of  the  difference  betwixt  them  is  this,  that,  (leaving 
the  controversy  itself  to  the  judgment  of  others,)  if  Cartwright  had 
the  better  of  it  in  his  learning,  Whitgift  had  the  advantage  in  his 
temper ;  and,  which  is  the  main,  he  had  more  power  to  back,  IT 
fewer  ]^eople  to  follow,  him. 

John  Young,  Vice-Chancellor ;  John  Wells,  Edmund  Rokery, 
and  William  Lewin,  Proctors ;  Roger  Slegg,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of 
Divinity,  d ;  Doctors  of  Civil  Law,  6 ;  Doctors  of  Medicine,  2 ; 
Badielois  of  Divinity,  22 ;  Masters  of  Aits,  62 ;  Piactitiooer  in 
Surgery,  1;     Bachelors   of  Laws,  2;     Bachelors  of  Arts,  86. 

A.D.i5eB.^. 

Nicholas  Carre,  Fellow  of  Pembroke  Hall,  a  great  restorer  of 
teaming  in  this  Univemty,  wherein  he  was  Professor  of  Greek, 
(first  as  substitute  to  sir  John  Cheke,  in  his  absence,  then,)  in  his 
own  capacity  discharging  the  pkoe  fifteen  years,  (afterwards  resign* 
ing  the  same,  and  commencing  Doctor  of  Ph]rsic,)  this  year  ended 
his  life,  to  the  great  grief  of  all  godly -and  learned  men.  He  was 
buried  in  St.  Gileses  church,  beyond  die  bridge,  under  a  handsome 
monument,  with  this  epitaph  : — 

Hicjaceo  CarruSy  doctos  doctissimus  inter 

Tempore  quosfovit  Granta  dUerta  meo. 
Tarn  mihi  Cecropice^  Latice  quam  gloria  lingua 

Cofivenity  et  medicce  maximns  artis  honos. 
Non  ego  mejacto^  sed  quas  Academia  laudes 

AUribuit  t;ivo,  mortuus  eccefruor. 
Etfruar^  O  lector  ;  procul  abnt  iurba  prqfana 

JElerno  violans  bvsta  sacrata  Deo. 

•  In  «<  thfe  Defence  of  the  Answer  to  the  Admonition,"  page  24.  t  Whitsi^^^ 

Jbid,  page  25. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


)2  KLUAWTH.  UNIVSBSITY  OF  CAMBRIDOK.  199 

Jolm  May,  Vice-ChaQcellor ;  Tbemas  Aldrich  and  Reubes 
Sherwood,  Proctors ;  Miles  Prance^  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divinity,  3 ; 
Doctois  of  Lavs,  2 ;  Doctor  of  Medicine,  1 ;.  Bachelors  of  Divi- 
nhj,  14;  Masters  of  Arts,  55;  Practitioner  in  Medicine,  1; 
Bachdois  of  Laws,  4 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  114.    a.  d.  156d-70. 

8, 9.  Wiiiffi/fi  commencing  Doelor.     WhUgifi  mmmanM  Cart^ 
V3righ$y  teio  fitea  in  a  List  o/iii  Opimcm. 

Amongst  the  Doctors  of  Divinity,  John  Whitgift,  Master  of 
Trinity  College,  took  his  degree,  answering  the  Act,  and  publicly 
maintaiDing,  in  the  Commencement-House,  for  his  position,  Papa 
est  iUe  anti-^hristui,* 

John  Whitgift,  Vice-Chancellor ;  William  Bingham  and  Hugo 
Bellot,  Proctors ;  William  Foxton,  Mayor ;  Doctor  of  Laws,  1 ; 
Doctor  of  Medicine,  1;  Masters  of  Arts,  71;  Practitioner  in 
Medicine,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  113.     a.d.  157(V-71. 

Whitgift,  now  armed  with  authority  as  Vice-Chancellor,  sum- 
moneth  Cartwright  to  give  an  account  of  his  opinions,  which  he 
neither  denied  nor  dissembled,  but  under  his  own  band  expressed  in 
these  words  following  :— 

1*  Archiepiseoporum  et  archidiaconarum  nomina^  simul  cum 
munmbus  et  officiis  suis,  sunt  abolenda, 

2.  Legitimorum  in  ecdmd  ministrorum  namiha^  qualia  sunt 
epifcoporum  et  dic^xmorum^  ieparctta  a  9ui8  muneribus  in  verba  Dei 
descriptis  nmpliciter  sunt  improbcmda^  et  ad  instittUionem  apostdi- 
cam  redocanda^  ut  epiecopus  in  verba  et  precibusj  diacanus  in 
fauperibus  curandis  versetur. 

3.  Episcoparum  CanceUariis,  aut'  archidia^conorvm  affidalibus 
^c.  regimen  ecdedce  nan  est  committendum,  sed  ad  idaneum  minis- 


4.  Ifan  cpartet  ministrum  esse  vagum  ed  liberum^  sed  quisque 
debet  certo  cuidamgregi  adjici. 

5.  jffemo  debet  ministerium  tanquam  candidatus  petere. 

6.  I^coporwn  tanthm  authoritate  etpotestate  ministri  nan  sunt 
f^eandi  ;  multd  minus  in  musoea  aut  loco  qucpiam  dancula/rio  ;  sed 
oh  ecdesid  electio  fieri  debet, 

Hisce  reformandis\  quisque  pro  sua  vocatione  studere  debety 
('cocatiotwm  autem  intdUgo^)  ut  magistratus  authoritate^  minister 
^bo,  omnes  preeibus  permoveoitt' 

And  because  h$  persisted  resolute  in  the  defence  thereof,  the 
Vice-Chancellor  made  use  of  his  authority,  and,  March  18th,  flatly 
deprived  him  of  his  lecture,  and  banished  [him  from]  the  University, 

•  Sib  George  Paul,  in  his  "  Life,"  page  6. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


200  HISTORY  OF  TITE  a.b.  1575. 

according  to  the  tenor  of  the  ensuing  instrument  registered  in  Cam- 
bridge : — 

"  Whereas  it  is  reported,  that  Master  Cartwright,  offering  dispu- 
tations and  conference,  touching  the  assertions  uttered*  by  him  and 
subscribed  with  his  hand,  and  that  he  could  not  obtain  his  request 
therein  :  This  is  to  testify,  that,  in  the  presence  of  us,  whose  names 
are  here  underwritten,  and  in  our  hearing,  the  said  Mr.  Gartwright 
was  offered  conference  of  divers^  ani  namely,  of  Mr.  Doctor 
Whitgift^  who  offered,  tliat  if  the  said  Mr.  Gartwright  would  set 
down  his  assertions  in  writing,  and  his  reasons  unto  them,  he  would 
answer  the  same  in  writing  also;  the  which  Master  Gartwright 
refused  to  do.  Further,  the  said  Doctor  Whitgift,  at  such  time  as 
Mr.  Gartwright  was  deprived  of  his  lecture,  did  in  our  presence 
ask  the  said  Mr.  Gartwright,  whether  he  had  both  publicly  and 
privately  divers  times  offered  the  same  conference  unto  him  by 
writing,  or  not ;  to  which  Mr.  Gartwright  answered,  that  he  had 
been  so  offered,  and  that  he  refused  the  same.  Moreover,  the  said 
Mr.  Gartwright  did  never  offer  any  disputation^  but  upon,  these 
conditions  ;  namely,  that  he  might  know  who  should  be  his  adver- 
saries, and  who  should  be  his  judges;  meaning  such  judges  as  he 
himself  could  best  like  of.  Neither  was  this  kind  of  disputation 
denied  unto  him,  but  only  he  was  required  to  obtain  licence  of  the 
queen's  majesty,  or  the  council,  because  his  assertions  be  repugnant 
to  the  state  of  the  commonwealth,  which  may  not  be  caHed  into 
question  by  public  disputation  without  licence  of  the  prince  or  his 
highness''s  council. 

"John  Whitgift,  Vice-Chancellbr, 
Andrew  Pearne,  John  Mey,       Edward  Hawfobd, 

William:  Ghaddebton,  Henry  Harvy,  Thomas  F^ » 

Thomas  B .'' 

Thus  was  Mr.  Gartwright  totally  routed  in  Cambridge,  and, 
being  forced  to  forsake  the  spring,  betook  himself  to  the  stream  ;  of 
whom  largely  in  our  "  History  of  the  Ghurch.*"  * 

10—12.  Br.  Baker,  Provost  of  Kind's  College,  flies  for  Beligion* 
Boger  Goads  chosen  in  his  Place.     [Number  of  Students  in 


Philip  Baker,  Doctor  of  Divinity,  Provost  of  King's  GoUege,  being 
a  zealous  papist,  had  hitherto  so  concealed  his  religion  that  he  was  not 
only  the  first  ecclesiastical  person  on  whom  queen  Elizabeth  bestowed 

•  See  vol.  ii.  PP..603,  504  j  and  voL  lii.  pp.  68—7.0,  104—120,  126—1^8, 1«6, 166, 
and  171.— Edit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


16  ELIZABETH.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  201 

preferment,  but  also,  being  Vice-Cihancellor  of  Cambridge,  com- 
mendably  dischai^ed  the  place  without  any  discovery  of  his  opinions. 
But  now,  being  questioned  for  his  religion,  not  willing  to  abide  the 
trial,  he  fled  beyond  the  seas.  Even  such  who  dislike  his  judg- 
ment will  conunend  his  integrity,  that,  having  mu)ch  of  the  College 
money  and  plate  in  his  custody,  (and  more  at  his  command,  aiming 
to  secure,  not  enrich,  himself,)  he  faithfully  resigned  all;  yea, 
carefoUy  sent  back  the  College  horses  which  carried  him  to  the  sea- 
side. 

Roger  Goade  was  chosen  in  his  place,  fetched  from  Ouildford,  in 
Sorrey,  where  he  was  a  schoolmaster ;  a  pleasant  sight  to  behold 
preferment  seeking  to  find  out  desert.  Forty  years  was  he  Provost 
of  that  House ;  in  which  time  he  met  with  nmch  opposition,  such 
as  governors  must  expect,  arising  from  the  antipathy  betwixt 
youth  and  severity.  And  no  wonder,  if  young  Scholars  swelled 
against  him,  who  bound  them  hard  to  the  observation  of  the  sta- 
tutes. However,  he  always  came  off  with  credit,  chiefly  befriended 
with  his  own  innocence. 

Roger  Kelke,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Arthur  Purifoy  and  John 
Beacon,  Proctors ;  William  Bright,  Mayor ;  Doctor  of  Divinity, 
1 ;  Doctor  of  Laws,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  8 ;  Masters  of 
Arts,  61 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  185.     a.  d.  1571-72. 

Thomas  Bing,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Walter  Alleyn  and  John  Tracy, 
Proctors.;  Oliver  Flint,  Mayor;  Doctors  of  Laws,  2;  Doctor  of 
Medicine,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  8 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  63  f 
Bachelors  of  Laws,  7 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  120.     1572-73*. 

John  Whitgift,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Richard  Bridgwater  and  Lan- 
celot Browne,  Proctors ;  Christopher  Flecher,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of 
Laws,  2  ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  9 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  57 ;  Bache- 
lor of  Laws,  1 ;  Bachelor  of  Medicine,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  146: 
157a-74. 

Andrew  Peme,  Vice-Chancelbr ;  John  Cragge  and  Luke  Oilpiii, 
Proctors;  Thomas  Kymbold,  Mayor;  Doctors  of  Divinity,  6; 
Doctors  of  Laws,  2 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  13  ;  Masters  of  ArtSj 
104;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  130.     1574-75. 

Dr.  Caius  set  forth  his  excellent  History  of  Cambridge,  and  took 
an  exact  account  of  all  the  Students  therein,  amounting  unto  one 
thousand  seven  hundred  eighty-three  ;  and  if  any  be  so  curious  as 
to  know  how  these  numbers  were  divided  betwixt  the  several 
Colleges,  the  ensuing  catalogue  will  inform  them : — 

1.  Peter  House,  96.  2.  Clare  Hall,  129.  3.  Pembroke  Hall, 
87.  4.  Bene't  College,  93.  5.  Trinity  Hall,  68.  6.  Gonville 
and  Caius  College,  62.  7-  King's  College,  140.  8.  Queen's  Col- 
lege, 122.      9.   Catherine    Hall,  32.     10.    Jesus  College,  118. 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


202  HISTORY  OF  THB  a.d.  1681. 

11.   ChristV  College,  157.     12.  St.  Johs's  Cofli^,  271.     13. 
Mugdalea  College,  49.    14  Trinity  College,  359. 

John  StiU,  Vice-Chancdlor ;  Thomas  Randall  and  David  Yale, 
Proctor* ;  Roger  Slegg,  Mayor;  Doctors  of  Diyinity,  3;  Doctors 
of  Laws,  3b;  Doctors  of  Medicine,  4 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  16 ; 
Masteis^  of  Arts,  70;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  2;  Bachelor  of  Medi- 
cine,!; Bachelorsof  Arts,  174.    a.d.  1575-76. 

13—15.  Bent-Corn  first  reiermi  to  CoUeges^  by  the  Procurement 
of  Sir  T.  Smith.     Great  Profit  thereby. 

This  year  an  Act  passed  in  Parliament,  most  beneficial  to  both 
Universities,  whereby  it  was  provided,  that  a  third  part  of  the  rent 
upon  leases  made  by  Colleges  should  be  reserved  in  com,*  paying 
after  the  rate  of  six  shillings  eight-pence  the  quarter  (ten-pence  a 
bushel)  for  good  wheat,  and  five  shillings  a  quarter,  or  under, 
(seven-?pence  half-penny  a  bushel,)  for  good  malt,  generally  dearer 
than  barley,  the  pains  of  making  it  being  cast  into  the  price.  This 
com  the  tenants  were  yearly  to  deliver  to  the  Colleges,  either  in 
kind  or  in  money,  after  the  rate  of  the  best  wheat  and  malt,  in  the 
markets  of  Cambridge  and  Oxford,  at  the  days  prefixed  for  the  pay- 
ment thereof. 

Sir  Thomas  Smith,  principal  secretary  of  state,  was  the  chief 
procurer  of  the  passing  of  this  Act,  and  is  said  by  some  to  have 
surprised  the  house  therein  ;  where  many  could  not  conceive  how 
tills  would  be  at  all  profitable  to  the  College,  but  still  the  same  on 
tiie  point,  whether  they  had  it  in  money  or  wares.  But  the  politic 
knight  took  the  advantage  of  the  present  cheap  year,  knowing  here- 
after grain  would  grow  dearer,  mankind  daily  multiplying,  and 
license  being  lately  legally  given  for  transportation.  This  is  that 
sir  Thomas  born  at  Walden,  in  Essex,  deserving  as  well  to  be 
called  Smith  Walden  as  Saffbon  Walj)en,  as  no  less  emi- 
n^t  for  this  worthy  statesman  born  therein,  as  for  that  sovereign 
antidote  growing  thereabout. 

At  this  day  much  emolument  redoundeth  to  the  ancient  Colleges 
in  each  University,  (foundation  since  the  statute  enjoying  no 
benefit  thereby,)  by  the  passing  of  this  Act ;  so  that,  though  their 
rents  stand  still,  their  revenues  do  increase.  True  it  is,  when  they 
have  least  com,  they  have  most  bread,  I  mean,  best  maintenance, — 
the  dividends  then  mounting  the  highest.  I  wish  them  good  sto- 
machs to  their  meat,  digestion  to  their  stomachs,  strength  and  health 
on  their  digestion. 

Roger  Goade,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Arthur    Purifoy  and  Thomas 

•  Se«  Pulton's  «  Conectione  of  the  Statutes,"  18,EKaM*eth,  cap.  6. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


2S  KLiXABBTH.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  203 

Patenson,  Proctors ;  Miles  Prawaite,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  M«£- 
cine,  5;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  18;  Masters  of  ArU,  83; 
Practitioners  in  Surgery^  2;  fiidielon  of  Arts,  160.  a.d. 
1576-77. 

Kdiafd  Holland,  V  ice-Chancellor ;  Osmund  Lakes  and  Nicholas 
Steer,  Proctors;  John  Chase,  Mayor;  Doctors  of  Divinity,  3; 
Doctors  of  Lavs,  8 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  12 ;  Masters  of  Arts, 
85 ;  Bachelors  of  Lavs,  6 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  115 ;  Practitioners 
in  Medicine,  3.    157&-78. 

Thomas  Bing,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Wilh'am  Farrand  and  Richard 
Willovby,  Proctors ;  Edward  Wallis,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divi- 
nity, 2 ;  Doctors  of  Laws,  6 ;  Doctor  of  Medicine,  1 ;  Bachelors 
of  Divinity,  1&;  Masters  of  Arts,  106;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  6; 
Bachelors  of  Arts,  153  ;  Practitioner  in  Medicine,  1.     1578-79. 

John  Hatcher,  Vice-Chancellor ;  William  Lakin  and  John 
Bradley,  Proctors ;  Mannaduke  Bland,  Mayor ;  Doctor  of  Divi- 
nity, 1 ;  Doctors  of  Laws,  3 ;  Doctors  of  Medicine,  2 ;  Bachelors 
of  Divinity,  17;  Masters  of  Arts^  86;  Bachelor  of  Laws,  1; 
Bachelors  of  Arts,  205  ;  Practitioner  in  Medkine,  1.    1579-80. 

Andrew  Peme,  Vice-Chancellor;  Thomas  Nevill  and  John 
Duport,  Proctors;  William  Foxton,  Mayor;  Doctors  of  Divinity, 
4 ;  Doctors  of  Lawi$,  7 ;  Doctors  of  Medicine,  6 ;  Bachelors  of 
Divinity,  8 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  61 ;  Bachdors  of  JLaws,  4 ;  Bache« 
lors  of  Arts,  194 ;  Pjactitioners  in  Medicine,  2.    1580-81* 

16.  A  Contest  betwixt  Dr.  Bare  and  Mr.  Chadderion* 
A  contest  happened  between  Mr.  Qiadderton  (afterward  Master 
of  Emmanuel  College)  and  Dr.  Baro,  Margaret-Professor,  about 
some  heterodox  opinions,  vented  by  ike  same  Boro  both  in  his 
readings  and  print,  namely,  in  his  Comment  on  Jonah,  and  book 
DeFide. 

Whereupon,  the  Doctor  procured  Mr.  Chadderton  to  be  caDed 
into  the  Consistory,  in  the  presence  of  the  Vioe-Ohancellor,  Dr. 
Hawford,  Dr.  Harvey,  and  Dr.  Legge,  where  he  utterly  denied  he 
liad  ever  preached  against  the  Doctor ;  but  he  propounded  these 
questions  as  erroneous-and  false :  1.  Primus  Dei  amor  non  est  in 
haturi  fidd  Justijieantis.  2.  Fides  justijlcans  non  prmcipitwr  in 
deealogo. 

Many  papers  in  Latin  passed  betwixt  diem,  and  at  last  they  were 
cosimved  to  come  nearer  together  in  these  their  expressions ;  the 
originals  being  kept  in  the  University-libraiy  :•— 


Digitized  by 


Google 


204 


HISTORY  OF  TEPE: 


A^D.  1685. 


DE   BBIMA,  MR.  CHADDKETON 

in  hunc  Modum, 


DE  PRIMA,  SIC  PETRUS  BARO. 


NuUus  amor  est  Deo  gratua  1.  In  operatione  justificatimk 

sine  fide.  Ghrutianw^  nulla  est  cooperatio 

fidei  et  avnoris, 

Quoddam  desiderium  jugtiticBy  2.  Omnis  amor  qui  placet  Deo 

et  remissionis  peccatorum  obti-  est  opus  Spiritus  Sancti  super- 

nendce  in  fide  justificante  inest^  naturale^  et  frtictus  fidei  justifir 

non    naturahy    sed    gratuitumy  cantis^  nonpars.. 
JSpiritiis  Sancti  donum. 

Omnis  amor  antefidem  ett  peccaium. 
.   Solajides  apffrehendit  J$tsti/icatumem. 


DE    SECUNDA- 


I>E    SECUNDA, 


Fides  justificans  decalogo  prcp-        1.  Decahgo^  secundum  mta^ 

dpitwr  quatenus  decalogo  stimi-  tionem  vocis^  pro  decern  proeoeptis 

tur   pro  decern  iUis   sententiis^  moralibus^  fides  justificans  non 

quas    Deus   suo    ore  in   monte  prwcipitur. 
Sinai  pronunciamt^  quibus  uni- 
versa  pietas  comprehenditur; 

Fides  justificafis,  decalogo  alio       2:  Decaloge  pro  imiversa  lege 

modo  sumpto  nempk  pro  nudis  Mosis  sumpto^   fides  'juttifmns 

legis  mandatis^   aa  qttcUenus  a  prwdpitur. 
Paulo    Christo    opponitur,    non 
continetur, 

Pktrus  Baro.     Laurence  CnADDERToy. 

Now,  however  they  might  seem  in  terms  to  approach,  their  judg- 
ments were  so  far  asunder  that  it  set  their  affections  at  the  same 
distance,  so  that  no  compliance  betwixt  them,  and  the  Doctor  at 
last  outed  of  his  place  ;  whereof  hereafter. 

William  Fulke,  Vice-Chancellor ;  John  Jegon  and  Robert 
Livelesse,  Proctors ;  Oliver  Flint,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divinity^ 
3  ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  20 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  102 ;  Bachelom 
of  Laws,.  3 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  213.     a.  d..1581-«2. 

John  Bell,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Anthony  Wingfield,  Leonard 
Chamber,  and  Gabriel  Harvie,  Proctors;  John  Goldsborow, 
Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divinity,  9 ;  Doctors  of  Laws,  3 ;  Bachelors 
of  Divinity,  14;  Masters  of  Arts,.  129;.  Bachelors  of  Laws,  3.; 
Bachelorsof  Arts,  213.     1582-83.. 

Richard  Rowland,  Vice-ChancellOT ;  Henry  Hickman  and 
Henry  Hawkins,  Proctors;  Henry  Clerk,  Mayor;  Doctors  of 
Divinity,  2 ;  Doctors  of  Medicine,  2 ;    Bachelors  of  Divinity,  9  ; 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


S6  ELIZABETH.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  205 

Masters  of  Arts,  113 ;  Bachelor  of  Laws,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts, 
236.    1583-S4. 

Robert  Norgat,  Vice-Chancellor ;  William  Hawes  and  Thomas 
Bradocke,  Proctors ;  Thomas  Dormer,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divi- 
nity, 2 ;  Doctors  of  Laws,  2 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  13 ;  Masters 
of  Arte,  113;  Bachelor  of  Medicine,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Arts,  192. 
1584-«5. 

17—19.  Emmanud  OoUege  founded  by  Sir  WaUer  Mildtnatfy 
who  cavsdesdy  fell  into  the  Queen's  Displectswre.  Hie  Answer 
to  Queen  Elizabeth, 

Walter  Mildmay,  knight,  fifth  son  of  Thomas  Mildmay,  of 
Chelmsford,  in  Essex,  formerly  a  serious  Student  in,  and  benefactor 
to,  Chiisrs  College,  Chancellor  of  the  Duchy,  and  of  the  Exche- 
quer, founded  a  House  by  the  name  of  Emmanuel  College,  in  a 
place  where  the  Dominicans,  Black-Friars,  or  Preaching  Friars,  had 
formerly  their  convent,  founded  anno  one  thousand  two  hundred 
eighty,  by  the  lady  Alice  countess  of  Oxford,*  daughter  and  sole 
heir  of  Gilbert  lord  Samford,  hereditary  lord  Chamberlain  of  Eng- 
land.f  After  the  suppression  of  monasteries,  it  was  the  dwelling- 
house  of  oae  Mr.  Sherwood,  from  whom,  as  I  take  it.  Sir  Walter 
purchased  tbe  s^me. 

Sir  Robert  Kaunton,  in  his  Fragmenta  Begaliay  did  leave  as 
irell  as  take,— omitting  some  statesmen  (of  the  first  magnitude)  no 
less  valued  by,  than  useful  to,  queen  Elizabeth,  as  appears  by  his 
not  mentioning  of  this  worAy  knight.  True  it  is,  toward  theend 
of  his  days,  he  fell  into  this  queen^s  disfavour,  not  by  his  own 
demerit,  but  the  envy  of  his  adversaries.  For  he,  being  employed, 
by  virtue  of  his  place,  to  advance  the  queen'^s  treasure,  did  it 
industriously^  faithfully,  and  conscionably,  without  wronging  the 
subject,  being  very  tender  of  their  privileges ;  insomuch  that  he 
onoe  complained  in  parliament,  that  ^'  many  subsidies  were  granted, 
atid  no  grievances  redressed :  ^  which  words,  being  represented  with 
)iis  disadvantage  to  the  queen,  made  her  to  disafiect  him,  setting 
iu  a  Court  cloud,  but  in  the  sunshine  of  his  country  and  a  dear 
conscience. 

Coming  to  Court  after  he  had  founded  his  </oIlege,  the  queen 
told  him,  **  Sir  Walter,  I  hear  you  have  erected  a  puritan  founda- 
tion.'' "  No,  madam,''  saith  he :  "  far  be  it  from  me  to  counte- 
nance any  thing  contrary  to  your  established  laws ;  but  I  have  set 
an  acorn,  which,  when  it  becomes  an  oak,  God  alone  knows  what 
will  be  the  fruit  thereof."     Sure  I  am,  at  this  day  it  hath  over- 

•  Sceletos  Cantabrigientis,  Ms.  t  Thia  is  eubsequently  corrected  in  the 

^*  Appeal  of  Injurea  Innocence,"  part  i,  Introd.  3.— Edit. 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ IC 


20e  BMOoaat  aif  Ttm  a.d.i586. 

AaJowed  all  tkc  University,-— more  than  a  moiety  of  the  present 
Masters  of  Colleges  being  bred  therein.  But  let  us  behold  their 
bene&ctors. 

Mastbrs. — ^1.  Laurence  Chadderton.  2.  John  Preston.  3. 
William  Sandcroft.  4.  Richard  Oldesworth  [Holdsworth].  5. 
Anthony  Tuckney.    6.  William  Dillingham. 

.Bishops. — ^1.  Joseph  Hall,  bishop  of  Norwich.     2.  Williani 
Bedell,  bishop  of  Kilmore,  in  Ireland. 

Benefactors.— Queen  Elizabeth.  Henry  earl  of  Hunting- 
don. Sir  Francis  Hastings.  Sir  Robert  Jermyn.  Sir  Francis 
Walsingham.  Sir  Henry  Killegrew.  Sir  Wolstan  Dixy.  Sir 
John  Hart.  Sir  Samuel  Leonard.  Sir  Thomas  Skinner.  Alex- 
ander Noel.  Dr.  Leeds.  Dr.  Harvey.  Dr.  Branthwait.  Robert 
Tailor.  Customer  Smith.  Nicholas  Fulkr.  Roger  Slegg. 
Fkaack  CSiantbacfaiiiiew  Mtt0t»  !@lis.  John  Spenliffe*  Willkm 
Keale.  Edmund  English.  Alderman  RatcHflfe.  John  M<»rley. 
Richard  Culverwell.  Robert  Johnson.  John  Beme«.  Mary 
Dixy.  Martha  Jermyn.  Alice  Owen.  Joyce  Franckland.  Eli- 
sabeth Walters.  Dr.  Richardson.  Sir  Henry  Mildmay,  of  Graces. 
Richard  Knightly.    Thomas  Hobbs.     Walter  Richtods. 

Learnep  Writers,  Fellows. — William  Jones.  William 
Bedell;  John  Down.  Hugh  Cholmley.  Joseph  Hall.  Ralph 
Oudworth.  Samuel  Crooke.  John  Cotton.  Thomas  Hooker. 
John  Yates.    John  Stoughton. 

Learkep  Writers,  no  Fellows. — James  Wadsworth,  who 
turned  papist.  John  Gifford,  "  Of  Ministers'  Maintenance.''  Eie- 
kiel  Culverwell,  "  Of  Faith."  Robert  Fmnan,  '<  Of  Admission  to 
the  Sacrament.''  Samuel  Foster,  "  Of  Mathematics."  Jeremiah 
Burrowes ;  besides  many  still  surviving.  Sir  Roger  Twysden,  an 
excellent  antiquary.  H.  Laurence,  "  Of  Angels,"  and  other  trea- 
tises. Stephen  Marshall.  Thomas  Shephard.  Samuel  Hudson, 
«0f  the  visible  Church."  Nathanael  Ward.  Thomas  Arthur. 
Thomas  Doughty.  John  Wallis  is  now  Geometry-Professor  in 
Oxford. 

OoLLEGE-LiviNGS.— Auler  [AUer]  rectory,  in  the  dioceas  of 
•Bath  and  Wells,  valued  at  d&39.  14^.  lOd.  Cadbury  rectory,  in  the 
diocess  of  Bath  and  Wells,  valued  at  .£^28. 17^.  2i<?.  Pydleton 
[Piddletown]  vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of  Bristol,  valued  at  £31. 
28.  lOd.  Stanground  vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of  Lincoln,  valued  at 
x£6.  &.  lOrf.  Winnsford  vicarage,  in  the  diocess  of  Bath  and 
Wells,  valued  at  ,£^14.  ISs.  8d.  Loughborough  rectory,  in  the 
diocess  of  Lincoln,  valued  at  £40.  Ifo.  3d. 

So  that  lately  (namely,  anno  1634)  were  maintained  one  Master, 
fourteen  Fellows,  fifty  Scholars,  ten  poor  Scholars,  besides  OflBlcers 


Digiti 


zedbyLiOOgle 


27  BUZARTS.  UNIVSRSITT  OF  CAMBRIDQE.  S07 

»td  Serrtnts  of  tlie  foondfttion,  with  other  Students^   tiie  whole 
number  being  three  hundred  and  ten. 

20—23.  Dr.  ffoldstm^  rejfiaeti  a  Buhoprie.  A  goad  MediUx^ 
Htm  of  a  dying  8aini.  Twa  grtmd  Benefifdors.  The  Linng 
omitted. 

Amongst  the  bidiops  of  this  House,  Richard  Holdsworth,  fourth 
Mastei^  BKUt  not  be  forgotten,  who  might,  but  would  not,  be 
biibop  of  Bristol :  not  out  of  covetousness,  (from  which  none  more 
fite,)  because  so  small  the  revenues  thereof;  or  laziness  to  decline 
pains,  none  being  more  laborious  in  his  calling  ;  or  scruple  of  con- 
science, none  more  zealous  in  a  certain  episcopacy ;  but  for  some 
secret  reasons,  which  these  troublesome  times  suggested  unto  him* 
He  was  a  most  excellent  preacher,  both  by  his  pious  life  and  patient 
death ;  and  one  passage  which  I  heard  from  him,  some  days  before 
his  expiring,  I  shall  here  insert : — 

^'  I  admire,^  said  he,  '^  at  David^s  gracious  heart,  who  so  often  in 
Scripture  (but  especially  in  the  119th  Psalm)  extolleth  the  worth 
and  value  of  the  word  of  God ;  and  yet  quanHUwn  Soripturcp,  how 
little  of  the  word  of  Ood  they  had  ^  in  that  age,— the  Pentateuch, 
the  Book  of  Job,  and  some  of  the  Hagiography  !  Uow  much  have 
we  now  thereof  since  the  accession  of  the  Prophets,  but  especially 
of  the  New  Testament  I  And  yet,  alas  !  the  more  we  have  of  the 
wont  of  God,  the  less  it  is  generally  regarded.^ 

Amongst  the  benefactors  of  this  House,  I  have  omitted  two,  not 
because  too  small,  but  too  great,  to  be  inserted  with  others,  deserv* 
ing  a  form  by  themselves;  namely,  the  lady  Grace  Mildmay, 
whom  the  Sfcholars  of  this  College  account  the  fourth  Grace,  and 
more  worth  than  the  other  three,  as  poetical  fictions.  The  other, 
Fiancis  AjbIi,  esquire,  a  rich  merchant  of  London,  to  whom  God 
lutth  given  a  full  hand,  and  free  heart,  to  be  bountiful  on  all  good 
occasions. 

Amongst  the  learned  writers  of  this  College,  I  have  omitted 
many  still  alive ;  as  Mr.  Anthony  Surges,  the  profitable  expounder 
of  the  much-mistaken  mature  of  the  two  covenants ;  Dr.  Benjamin 
Whichcot,  now  Provost  of  King's,  whose  perfect  list  cannot  be  given 
in,  because  daily  increasing. 

Humphrey  Tindall,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Joseph  Smith  and  John 
Cowell,  Proctors ;  John  Edmonds,  Mayor ;  Doctor  of  Divinity, 
1 ;  Doctors  of  Laws,  3 ;  Doctors  of  Medicine,  2 ;  Bachelors  of 
Divinity,  16;  Masters  of  Arts,  165;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  3; 
Bachelors  of  Arts,  198.    a.  d.  1685-86. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


208  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1595. 

24i  I^  last  Vice-Chancellor  thetiy  but  Fellow  of  the  House, 

John  Capcott,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Anthony  Wingfield  and  Henry 
Farr,  Proctors;  John  Edmonds,  Mayor;  Doctor  of  Laws,  1; 
Doctors  of  Medicine,  2 ;  Bachelors  of  Di\dnity,  16  ;  Masters  of 
Arts,  185 ;  Bachelora  of  Arts,  180.     a.d.  1586—87. 

Dr.  Capcott,  when  chosen  Vice-Chancellor,  was  only  Fellow  of 
Trinity  College ;  within  which  he  gave  upper-hand  to  Dr.  Still, 
then  Master,  but  took  it  of  him  when  out  of  fhe  walls  of  the 
College.  But  before  the  year  ended,  he  was  chosen  Master  of 
BeneH  College,  and  an  Act  made  amongst  the  Doctors,  that,  '^  for 
the  time  to  come,  none  but  Heads  of  Houses  should  be  chosen 
Vice-Chancellors.'" 

Thomas  Legge,  Vice-Chancellor ;  John  Palmer  and  John  Smith, 
Proctors,  Roger  Smith,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divinity,  2 ;  Doctor 
of  Laws,  1 ;  Doctor  of  Medicine,  1 ;  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  8 ; 
Masters  of  Arts,  121 ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  2  ;  Bachelors  of  Arts, 
129.    A.D.  1587-88. 

Thomas  Nevill,  Vice-Chancellor  ;  Robert  Canesfeild  and  Miles 
Sandys,  Proctors ;  Nicholas  Gaunt,  Mayor ;  Doctors  of  Divinity, 
7 ;  Doctors  of  Laws,  3 ;  Doctor  of  Medicine,  1 ;  Bachelors  of 
Divinity,  19 ;  Masters  of  Arts,  107  ;  Bachelors  of  Laws,  3 ; 
Bachelors  of  Arts,  182.     158&-«9. 

25.  An  unfaithful  Register, 

Hitherto  we  have  given  in  the  list  of  the  yearly  Commencers,  but 
now  must  break  off;  let  Thomas  Smith,  University-Register,  bear  the 
•blame,  who,  about  this  year  entering  into  his  office,  was  so  negligent, 
that,  as  one  saith,  Cam  fait  Academice  a  memoridy  omnia  tradidit 
cbUcionij  I  can  hardly  inhold  from  inveighing  on  his  memory, 
carelessness  bein^  dishonesty  in  public  persons  so  intrusted. 

Thomas  Preston,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Henry  Mountlaw  and  Rich- 
ard Betts,  Proctors  ;  William  Wolfe,  Mayor,     a.d.  1589-90. 

Robert  Soame,  Vice-Chancellor;  John  Sledd  and  Cuthbert 
Bambrigge,  Proctors  ;  John  Clerke,  Mayor.     159ft-Sl. 

Robert  Soame,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Gilbert  Jacob  and  Otho  Hill ; 
Proctors ;  Thomas  Goldsborow,  Mayor.    1591-92. 

John  Still  and  Thomas  Legge,  Vice-Chancellor ;  t'homas  Grim- 
ston  and  Samuel  Harsnett,  Proctors ;  Thomas  Medcalfe,  Mayor. 
1592^3. 

John  Duport,  Vice-Chancellor  ;  Henry  Mountlow,  wid  Thomas 
Jegon,  Proctors ;  Christopher  Hodson,  Mayor.     1593-94. 

John  Duport,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Gregory  Milner  and  John  Men- 
ton,  Proctors ;  Oliver  Greene,- Mayor.     1594-95. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


37BLIZABETH.  UNIVBRSITY  OF  CAMBRIDOG.  209 

Roger  Ooade,  Vice-chancellor;  Lionel  Duckett  and  Thomas 

Cooke,  Proctors ;  John  Norcott,  Mayor.     15d4-95. 

• 

26,  27.  Barrett  summoned  before  the  Cormstory.    His  solemn 
Reeantation, 

William  Barrett,  Fellow  of  Gonyille  and  Cains  College,  preached 
ad  Glervmy  April  29th,  for  his  degree  of  Bachelor  in  Divinity,  in 
St.  Mary's,  wherein  he  yented  such  doctrines,  for  which  he  was  sum- 
moned, May  5th,  six  days  after,  before  the  consistory  of  the  Doc- 
tors, and  there  enjoined  the  following  recantation  :— 

"Preaching  in  Latin  not  long  since,  in  the  University-church, 
(right  worshipful,)  many  things  slipped  from  me,  both  falsely  and 
tashly  spoken,  whereby,  I  understand,  the  minds  of  many  have 
been  grieved :  to  the  end  therefore  that  I  may  satisfy  the  church 
and  the  truth,  which  I  have  publicly  hurt,  I  do  make  this  public 
confession,  both  repeating  and  revoking  my  errors. 

"First.  I  said,  that  no  man  in  this  transitory  world  is  so  strongly 
underpropped,  at  least  by  the  certainty  of  faith, — ^that  is,  unless 
(as  I  afterwards  expounded  it)  by  revelation,— that  he  ought  to  be 
assured  of  his  own  salvation.  But  now  I  protest  before  Ood,  and 
acknowledge  in  my  own  conscience,  that  they  which  are  justified  by 
&lth  have  peace  towards  God,  that  is,  have  reconciliation  with  God, 
and  do  stand  in  that  grace  by  &ith  :  therefore  that  they  ought  to 
be  certain  and  assured  of  their  own  salvation,  even  by  the  certainty 
of  &ith  itself. 

"  Secondly.  I  affirmed,  that  the  faith  of  Peter  could  not  fail, 
bat  that  other  men'*s  may :  for,  as  I  then  said,  our  Lord  prayed  not 
for  the  feith  of  every  particular  man.  But  now,  being  of  a  better 
and  more  sound  judgment,  (according  to  that  which  Christ  teacheth 
ia  plain  words,  John  xvii.  20 :  ^  I  pray  not  for  these  alone,^  that 
is,  the  apostles,  ^but  for  them  also  which  shall  believe  in  me 
through  their  word,')  I  acknowledge,  that  Christ  did  pray  for  the 
&ith  Of  every  particular  believer  ;  and  that,  by  the  virtue  of  that 
prayer  of  Christ,  every  true  believer  is  so  stayed  up,  that  his  faith 
cannot  fail. 

^Thirdly.  Touching  perseverance  unto  the  end,  I  said,  that  that 
certainty  concerning  the  time  to  come  is  proud,  forasmuch  as  it  is, 
in  his  own  nature,  contingent,  of  what  kind  the  perseverance  of 
every  man  is  :  neither  did  I  affirm  it  to  be  proud  only,  but  to  be 
most  wicked.  But  now  I  freely  protest,  that  the  true  and  justi- 
fying faith  (whereby  the  faithful  are  most  nearly  united  unto 
Christ)  is  so  firm,  as  also  for  the  time  so  certain,  that  it  can  never 
be  rooted  out  of  the  minds  of  the  faithful,  by  any  tentations  of  the 
flesh,  the  world,  or  the  devil  himself;  so  that  he  who  hath  hia 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


210  HISTORY  OF  THE  A.D.  1696. 

jSdth  once,  shall  ever  have  it.  For,  by  the  benefit  of  thitt  justifying 
faith,  Christ  dwelleth  in  us,  and  we  in  Christ :  therefore  it  cannot 
be  but  increased,  (Christ  growing  in  us  daily,)  as  also  persevere 
unto  the  end,  because  God  doth  give  constancy. 

"  Fourthly.  I  affirmed,  that  there  was  no  distinction  in  faith, 
but  in  the  persons  believing.  In  which,  I  confess,  I  did  err. 
Now  I  freely  acknowledge,  that  temporary  feith  (which,  as  Bernard 
witnesseth,  is  therefore  feigned,  because  it  is  temporary)  is  distin- 
guished and  diflfereth  from  that  saving  faith  whereby  sinners,  appre- 
hending Christ,  are  justified  before  God  for  ever ;  not  in  measure, 
and  degrees,  but  in  the  very  thing  itself.  Moreover,  I  add,  that 
James  doth  make  mention  of  a  dead  faith ;  and  Paul,  of  a  faith 
that  worketh  by  love, 

^*  Fifthly.  I  added,  that  forgiveness  of  sins  is  an  article  of  faith, 
but  not  particular,  neither  belonging  to  this  man  nor  to  that  man : 
that  is,  (as  I  expounded  it,)  that  no  true,  faithful  man  either  can  or 
ought  certainly  to  believe  that  his  sins  are  forgiven.  But  now  I  am  of 
another  mind,  and  do  freely  confess,  that  every  true,  faithful  man 
is  bound,  by  this  article  of  faith,  (to  wit,  '  I  believe  the  forgivenesa 
of  sins,')  certainly  to  believe  that  his  own  particular  sins  are  freely 
forgiven  him  :  neither  doth  it  follow  hereupon,  that  that  petition  of 
the  Lord's  Prayer  (to  wit,  ^  Forgive  us  our  trespasses')  is  need- 
less ;  for,  in  that  petition,  we  ask  not  only  the  gift,  but  also  the 
increase,  of  faith. 

"  Sixthly.  These  words  escapei  me  in  my  sermon,  namely  i 
*  As  for  those  that  are  not  saved,  I  do  most  strongly  believe,  and 
do  freely  protest,  that  I  am  so  persuaded,  against  Calvin,  Peter 
Martyr,  and  the  rest,  that  sin  is  the  true,  proper,  and  first  cause  of 
reprobation.'  But  now,  being  better  instructed,  I  say,  that  the 
reprobation  of  the  wicked  is  from  everlasting,  and  that  the  saying  of 
Augustine  to  Simplician  is  most  true,  namely :  '  If  sin  were  the 
cause  of  reprobation,  then  no  man  should  be  elected,  because  God 
doth  foreknow  all  men  to  be  defiled  with  it ;  and  (that  I  may  speak 
freely)  I  am  of  the  same  mind,  and  do  believe,  cpncerning  the  doe- 
trine  of  election  and  reprobation,  as  the  church  of  England  believeth 
and  teacheth  in  the  Book  of  the  Articles  of  Faith,  in  the  Article  of 
Predestination. 

"Last  of  all.  I  uttered  these  words  rashly  against  Calvin,  a 
man  that  hath  very  well  deserved  of  the  church  of  God ;  to  wit, 
that  *  he  durst  presume  to  lift  up  himself  above  the  high  and 
almighty  God.'  By  which  words'  I  confess,  that  I  have  done  great 
injury  to  that  most  learned  and  right  godly  man  ;  and  I  do  most 
humbly  beseech  you  all  to  pardon  this  my  rashness.  As  also,  that 
X  have  uttered  many  bitter  words  against  Peter  Martyr,  Theodore 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


38  ELIZABETH.  UNIVEllSITT  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  2U 

Beza,  Jerome  Zanchios,  Fiancis  Junius,  and  the  rest  of  the  same 
religion,  being  the  lights  and  ornaments  of  our  church ;  calling 
them  by  the  odious  names  of  ^  Calvinists,^  and  other  sknderous 
tenns,  branding  them  irith  a  most  grievous  mark  of  reproach,  whom 
because  our  church  doth  worthily  reverence,  it  was  not  meet  that  I 
should  take  away  their  good  name  from  them,  or  any  way  impair 
their  credit,  or  dehort  others  of  our  countrymen  from  reading  their 
most  learaed  works.  I  am  therefore  very  sorry,  and  grieved  for  this 
most  grievous  ofifence  which  I  have  publicly  given  to  this  most 
famous  University,  which  is  the  temple  of  true  religion,  and  sacred 
receptacle  of  piety.  And  I  do  promise  you,  that,  by  God^s  help,  I 
wi]i  never  hereafter  offend  in  like  sort ;  and  I  do  earnestly  beseech 
you,  right  worshipfiil,  and  all  others  to  whom  I  have  given  this 
offence,  either  in  the  former  articles,  or  in  any  part  of  my  said 
sermon,  that  you  would  of  your  courtesy  pardon  me,  upon  this  my 
rq)eBtance.'' 

This  recantation  was  by  the  Doctors  peremptorily  enjoined  him  ; 
that  on  Saturday  following,  May  10th,  immediately  after  the 
Clerum^  he  should  go  up  into  the  pulpit  of  St.  Mary's,  (where  he 
had  published  these  errors,)  and  there,  openly  in  the  face  of  the 
Univereity,  read,  and  make  this  recantation :  which  by  him  was 
done  accordingly ;  but  not  with  that  remorse  and  humility  as  was 
expected ;  for,  after  the  reading  thereof,  he  concluded  thus,  ffofo 
dixi,  as  if  all  had  been  oral  rather  than  cordial.  Yea,  soon  after 
he  departed  the  University,  got  beyond  sea,  turned  a  papist, 
returned  into  England,  where  he  led  a  lajrman's  life  until  the  day 
of  his  death. 

John  Jcgon,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Ezekiel  Hilliard  and  William 
Bolton,  Proctors;  Robert  Wallis,  Mayor,     a.d.  1595-06. 

28-^.  I%e  Sieknm  and  Death  of  Dr.  WAitaker.  HU  iod  and 
ioiemn  Funeral.  Cherall  8tteceeds  him  in  the  Profewir'^ 
Place. 

Dr.  Whi taker,  returning  from  Lambeth  conference,  November 
28th,  brought  home  with  him  the  bane  of  his  health,  contracted 
there  by  hard  and  late  studying,  and  watching,  in  a  very  cold  winter. 
In  his  journey  homewards,  he  was  rather  not  well  than  sick ;  and 
when  come  to  St.  John^s  College,  the  outside  of  his  disease  (so 
much  as  appeared  in  the  symptoms  thereof)  had  little  of  danger, 
whilst  the  inside  thereof  (as  the  sad  success  declared)  had  nothing 
of  hope  therein.  On  the  Sunday  following,  November  30th, 
he  took  his  bed,  and  then  was  there  no  want  of  physicians,  if 
not  too  much  plenty  of  them  about  him.  They  meet,  consult, 
coHchide  he  must  be  let  Hood;  but  none  did  what  all  advised 

p  2 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ  l€ 


3X2  HISTORY  OP  THB  a-d.  1596. 

should  be  done.  This; was  deferred  till  Wednesday  next,  Decem- 
ber 3rd ;  (let  the  blame  thereof,  to  make  it  the  lighter,  be  divide^ 
amongst  all  his  friends  there  ;)  and  then,  when  all  things  else  were 
fitted  for  blood-letting,  the  patient  himself  was  unfit,  being  in  so 
violent  a  sweat,  that  opening  of  a  vein  would,  as  all  thought,  let  out 
blood  and  life  together.  That  night  he  cheerfully  received  in, 
himself  the  sentence  of  death,  professing  that  he  desired  not  life^ 
but  to  glorify  God,  and  serve  the  church  therewith,  though  his 
wife  was  near  the  time  of  her  travail,  whose  postkume  child  he 
bequeathed  to  God,  the  chief  fether  thereof.  Next  day,  being 
Thursday,  December  4th,  he  quietly  resigned  his  soul  to  God,  in 
the  forty-seventh  year  of  his  life  ;  one  so  exactly  qualified,  that  the 
Professor^s  Chair  may  seem  made  for  him,  and  he  for  it,  they 
mutually  so  fitted  each  other, 

December  10th,  six  days  after,  his  funerals  were  solemnly  per- 
formed after  this  manner :  all  the  University  repaired  to  St.  John's 
College,   which   they    found    hung   (Chapel,    Hall,    and  outward 
Court)  with  mourning,  scutcheons,  and  verses.     Then,  taking  up 
the  corpse,  they  all  advance,  in  their  academical  equipage,  to  St. 
Mary's,  where  the  mayor  and  aldermen   (whose   vicinity   to   the 
University  commonly  causeth  their  distance  from  it)  met  them  in 
their  mourning  formalities.     Then  Dr.  Goade,  the  Vice-Chancellor, 
pathetically  preached  to  the  auditory.     His  tears  were  so  mannerly, 
(or  religious  rather,)  that,  observing  their  time,  they  obstructed  not 
his  sermon  till  come  to  a  competent  length,  when  the  spring-tide  of 
his  weeping  stopped  his  preaching.     Thus  his  sermon  (like  his  lif^ 
who  was  the  subject  of  it,  cut  off  when  not  much  passed  the  prim^ 
thereof)  was  rather  broken  off  than  ended.     So  sad  was  the  whole 
congregation,  that  one  might  as  soon  therein  have  found  a  faqe  with- 
out eyes,  as  eyes  without  tears.     Back  they  all  return  to  the  Col- 
lege, where,  after  a  Latin  oration  made  by  one  of  the  Fellows,  his 
corpse  was  solemnly  interred  in  the   chapel.     Then   a  banquet  of 
sweetmeats,  soured  with  so  sad  an  occasion,  (at  the  sole  charge  of 
the  College,)  was  rather  seen  than  tasted  by  the  guests,  formerly 
surfeited  with  sorrow.     Hence  they  re-advance  to  St.  Mary's,  where 
Robert  Naunton,   University-Orator,  (after  knighted,  and    secre- 
tary of  state,)  with  another  Latin  speech  concluded  the    funeral 
i^olemnity. 

Soon  after,  two  candidates  appeared  for  the  Professor's  place, 
John  Overall,  of  Trinity,  Doctor — ^Anthony  Wotton,  of  King'*s 
College,  Bachelor— K)f  Divinity.  Both  read  solemn  lectures  of  pro- 
bation on  subjects  assigned  them  ;  namely,  Overall,  on  Hebrews  vi. 
4,  &c.  "For  it  is  impossible  for  those  who  were  once  enlightened, 
and  have  tasted  the  heavenly  gift, — ^if  they  shall  fall  aw^y,  to  rene^y 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


36  ELMAfegTH.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDOfi.  213 

them  again  unto  repentance.'"  Wotton,  on  James  ii.  24 :  *^  Ye 
see  then  how  that  by  works  a  man  is  justified,  and  not  by  faith 
only.'' 

Pity  it  is  but  the  place  should  have  been  capable  of  both, — both 
approving  themselves  so  deserving  of  it.  Wherefore  Wotton  was 
not  rejected,  though  Overall  was  preferred  to  the  Chair.  Yea, 
rather  than  Wotton's  worth  should  pass  unrewarded,  a  Professor's 
place  of  Divinity  (though  not  in  Cambridge)  shall  either  be  found 
out,  or  founded  for  him.  For,  within  few  months  after,  he  was 
made  the  first  Reader  of  Divinity  in  Gresham^s  College^  in 
London.* 

31,  32.  Dr.  Baro  quits  his  Professor's  Place.    Different  Judg- 
ments about  his  Departure. 

The  end  of  Dr.  Peter  Baro's  (the  Margaret  Professor's)  triennial 
lectures  began  to  draw  near.  Now,  although  custom  had  made 
such  courtesy  almost  a  due  to  continue  the  same  Professor  where 
no  urgent  reasons  to  the  contrary  were  alleged  ;  yet  the  University 
intended  not  to  re-elect  him  for  the  place,  meaning  fairiy  to  cut  him 
off  at  the  just  joint,  (which  would  be  the  less  pain  and  shame 
unto  him,)  when  his  three  years  should  be  expired.  He  himself 
was  sensible  thereof;  and,  besides,  he  saw  the  Articles  of  Lambeth, 
(whereof  largely  before,f )  lately  sent  to  the  University,  and  fore- 
saw that  subscription  thereunto  would  be  expected  from — ^yea, 
imposed  on — ^him,  to  which  he  could  not  condescend :  and  there- 
fore resolved  to  quit  his  place.  So  that  this  his  departure  was  not 
his  free  act,  out  of  voluntary  election,  but  that  whereunto  his  will 
was  necessarily  determined :  witness  his  own  return  to  a  friend, 
requiring  of  him  the  caus^  of  his  withdrawing :  Fugio^  saith  he, 
nefugarer^  "  I  fly,  for  fear  to  be  driven  away."  J 

Some  conceive  this ,  hard  measure,  which  was  used  to  one  of  Dr. 
Baro's  qualifications.  For,  First,  he  was  a  foreigner^  a  French- 
man :  Turgius  yicitwr^  quam  non  admittitur,  hospes.  Secondly. 
A  great  scholar ;  for,  he  who  denieth  learning  in  Baro,  (so  wit- 
nessed in  his  works,)  plainly  affirmeth  no  scholarship  in  himself. 
Thirdly.  An  imffensim  man  for  life  and  conversation ;  seeing 
nothing  of  viciousness  could  be  charged  upon  him,  which,  otherwise, 

•  Stow's  «  Surrey  of  London,"  page  66.  t  See  our  "  Church  Hiatory," 

4fnno   1696,  vol.   iii.   pp.   147—160.  J  On   the  Bubject  of  Barrett  and 

Baro,  the  reader  will  obtain  correct  information  in  Strype's  "  Life  of  Archbishop  Whit- 
gift : ''  in  the  Appendix  to  which  he  will  also  find  the  information  which  FuUer  (in  his 
"  Church  History,"  vol.  iii.  p.  149)  promised  to  cite  at  large,  this  year,  in  a  note  to  his 
•*  History  of  Cambridge,"  but  which,  like  many  of  his  other  good  purposes,  seems  to 
have  been  forgotten. — Edit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


214  HISTORY  OF  THE  .  A.D.  1596. 

in  his  contest  with  Mr.  Chaderton,*  had  been  nrged  against  him. 
Xiastly.  An  ctgei  mom^  coming  hither  many  years  since,  (when  the 
Professor's  place  as  much  needed  him  as  he  it,)  and  who  had  pain- 
fully spent  bis  strength  in  the  employment.  Others  alleged,  that 
in  snch  cases  of  conscience  there  lies  no  plea  for  courtesy ;  and  that 
!Paro,  as  he  was  a  stranger^  had  brought  *  in  stravige  doctrines,  to 
the  infecting  of  the  University,  the  fountain  of  learning  and  religion ; 
and  therefore  archbishop  Whitgift  designed  the  remoring  of  him 
from  his  place.  Thomas  Playfere,  Fellow  of  St.  John's,  in  Cam- 
bridge, and  Doctor  of  Divinity,  was  elected  to  succeed  him  in  his 
Professor's  place  ;  of  whom  largely  hereafter. 

33-^5.  The  first  Fomdatim  of  Sidmy-SuBsex  CcUege.  The 
Spite  of  Index  Expurgatorius.  The  College-Mortmain  how 
procured. 

On  the  twentieth  day  of  May  was  the  first  stone  laid  of  Sidney 
College,  (the  whole  fabric  whereof  was  finished  three  years  after,) 
on  the  cost  of  the  lady  Frances  Sidney,  daughter  to  sir  William, 
sister  to  sir  Henry,  (lord  deputy  of  Ireland,)  aunt  to  sir  Philip 
Sidney,  relict  of  Thomas  Ratcliffe,  the  third  earl  of  Sussex.  This 
lady  died  seven  years  since,  on  the  ninth  of  March,  1588,  as 
appears  by  the  epitaph  on  her  monument,  in  Westminster  Abbey, 
in  which  church  she  founded  a  salary  of  twenty  pounds  a-year, 
for  a  Divinity-Lecture.  By  her  will,  dated  December  6th,  1588, 
she  left  to  her  executors,  Henry  Gray,  earl  of  Kent,  and  to  her 
nephew  sir  John  (afterwards  lord)  Harrington,  five  thousand 
pounds,  besides  her  goods  unbequeathed,  for  the  erection  of  a 
College,  and  purchasing  of  competent  lands,  for  one  Master,  ten 
Fellows,  and  twenty  Scholars.  But,  in  case  the  legacy  would  not 
thereunto  extend,  then  the  same  to  go  to  the  enlarging  of  Clare 
Hall,  for  the  maintenance  of  so  many  Fellows  and  Scholars  therein, 
to  enjoy  all  liberties,  customs,  and  privileges,  with  other  Fellows 
and  Scholars  of  that  foundation.  She  appointed  John  Whitgift, 
archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  Gabriel  Goodman,  dean  of  West- 
minster, overseers  of  her  will;  ordering  also,  that  Alexander 
Nowell,  dean  of  St.  Paul's,  should  preach  her  funeral  sermon, 
which  (no  doubt)  was  done  accordingly. 

Be  it  remembered,  by  the  way,  that  the  lately-mentioned  earl  of 
Kent  is  he  on  whom  Mr.  Camden  bestows  this  deserved  commenda- 
tion :  Verw  nohilitatis  ornamentis  mr  huge  honoratimmua.^  But 
the  Index  Expvo'gatoriuSj  set  forth  at  Madrid,  by  Lewis  Sanchez, 

•  See  our  "  University  History,"  anno  1681,  page  203.  \  Camdejn's  Briton- 

nia,  in  the  conclusion  of  Kent. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


S8  BLUUms.  UNIVIOISITT  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  215 

(lie  king's  printer,  1612,  (and  truly  reprinted  at  Geneva,  1619,) 
dashes  these  word  with  a  dele^  though  the  character  given  this  peer, 
most  honourable  for  his  parentage,  and  no  less  for  his  piety,*  will 
justly  remain  to  his  memory  when  this  peevish,  partial  Index  shall 
be  puiged  to  nothing. 

These  two  noble  executors,  in  pursuance  of  the  will  of  this  testa, 
irix,  according  to  her  desire  and  direction  therein,  in  her  name  pre- 
sented queen  Elizabeth  a  jewel,  being  like  a  star,  of  rubies  and 
diamonds,  with  a  ruby  in  the  midst  thereof,  worth  an  hundred  and 
forty  pounds,  having  on  the  back  side  a  hand  delivering  up  a  heart 
nnto  a  crown.-f*  At  the  delivery  hereof,  they  humbly  requested  of 
her  highness  a  mortmain  to  found  a  College,  which  she  graciously 
granted  unto  them.  Their  next  care  was  to  purchase  of  Trinity 
College  a  parcel  of  ground,  with  some  ancient  buildings  thereon« 
(fonnerly  called  the  Franciscans  or  Gray  Friars,)  procuring  the 
«ame  to  be  passed  unto  them  in  fee-farm  by  Act  of  Parliament,  and 
thereon  they  laid  the  foundation  of  this  new  College. 

36.  A  little  Babe  (thank  God  and  good  Nwm !)  weU  batetled. 

We  usually  observe  infants  bom  in  the  seventh  month,  though 
poor  and  pitifol  creatures,  are  vital ;  and,  with  great  care  and  good 
attendance,  in  time  prove  proper  persons.  Ovid,  or  his  elder 
brother,  (the  words  being  dubiously  placed,)  may  be  an  instance 
Hereof  :-- 

Qui  tribut  ante  quder  mennbut  ortut  erat»t 

To  such  a  partus  eeptimestris  may  Sidney  College  well  be  resem- 
bled, so  low,  lean,  and  little  at  the  birth  thereof.  Alas  !  what  is 
five  thousand  pounds  to  buy  the  site,  build  and  endow  a  College 
therewith  ?  As  for  her  unbequeathed  goods,  they  answered  not 
expectation ;  and  I  have  heard,  that  some  inferior  persons, 
employed  in  the  sale  of  her  jewels,  were  (out  of  their  own  want  of 
skill,  or  of  honesty  in  others)  much  deceived  therein  :  yet  such  was 
the  worthy  care  of  her  honourable  executors,  that  this  Benjamin- 
College — ^the  least,  and  last  in  time,  and  born  after  (as  he  a£)  the 
death  of  its  mother— -thrived  in  a  short  time  to  a  competent 
strength  and  stature. 

Masters. — ^1.  James  Montague,  first  Master  of  this  House, 
and  a  worthy  benefector  thereof, .  giving  much,  procuring  more, 
thereunto.  2.  Francis  Aldridge,  Fellow  of  Trinity  College, 
chosen    1608.    3.  Samuel  Ward,  Fellow  of  Emmanuel  College, 

*  Primd  cUute,  litera:  G,  t  Copied  oat  of  the  \sot^  of  her  will.  t  •i)c 

TrittibuSf  lib.  ir.  eleg.  10. 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ IC 


216  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1696. 

chosen  1609 ;  of  wiom  largely  hereafter.  4.  Richard  Mmshull, 
first  Master,*  bred  in  and  chosen  by  the  College,  and  much  merit- 
ing thereof  by  his  providence. 

Bishops. — James  Montague,  bishop  of  Bath  and  tVeUs,  amio 
1608,  afterwards  bishop  of  Winchester.  John  Bramhall,  bishop  of 
Londonderry,  in  Ireland. 

Benefactors. — Henry  earl  of  Kent,  who  let  the  legacy  of 
one  hundred  pounds  (bequeathed  him  by  the  foundress)  go  on  to 
the  building  of  the  College,  though  generally  omitted  in  the  cata- 
logue of  their  benefactors.  Sir  John  Hart,  knight.  Leonard 
Smith,  citizen  of  London.  Peter  Blundel,  of  Tiverton,  clothier. 
John  Freestone,  esq.  Edward  lord  Montague,  of  Boughton. 
J  ohn  lord  Harrington,  the  younger ;  lady  Lucy,  his  sister,  countess 
of  Bedford ;  lady  Anne  Harrington,  their  mother.  George  lord 
Goringe.  John  Young,  D.D.  dean  of  Winchester.  Sir  William 
Wilmore,  first  pensioner  in  the  College.  Robert  Johnson,  arch- 
deacon of  Leicester.  John  Harrington,  esq.  Godfrey  Fuljambe, 
esq.  Edward  Wray,  esq.  Robert  Hadson,  esq.  Francis  Combe, 
esq.  Paul  Micletwait,  D.D.  and  Fellow  of  the  College.  Richard 
Dugard. 

Learned  Writers. — ^1.  Daniel  Dike,  that  fitithful  servant,  in 
discovering  the  deceitfulness  of  man's  heart.  2.  Jeremiah  Dike, 
his  brother.  3.  Samuel  Ward,  minister  of  Ipswich.  4.  Thomas 
Gatacre,  much  known  by  his  book  of  "  Lots,"  and  other  works. 
5.  Jeremiah  Witaker.  6.  Thomas  Adams,  a  noted  preacher  in 
London. 

Livings.— /8'^*;^^  mihi  nonpotis  est  dicerej^diciferun^.-f 

37 — 40.  Sir  Francis  Clark  deservedly  accounted  a  By-Founder, 
To  whom  Sir  John  Brereton  not  much  inferior.  A  Ghapd 
added  after  some  Years.    A  ChiWs  Prayer  for  his  Mother, 

As  for  the  bounty  of  sir  Francis  Clark,  it  exceeded  the  bounds 
ol'  benefaction,  and  justly  entitled  him  to  be  a  by-founder.  The 
giver  doubled  the  gift,  if  we  consider.  First.  His  e&tate  was  not 
great  for  one  of  his  condition.  Secondly.  He  had  a  daughter; 
^nd  generally  it  is  observed,  that  parents  are  most  barren,  and 
the  childless  most  fruitful,  in  great  expressions  of  charity.  Thirdly. 
He  was  altogether  unknown  to  the  College,  and  the  College  to 
him  ;  surprising  it  on  a  sudden  with  his  bounty,  so  much  the  more 
welcome,  because  not  expected.  Yet  such  his  liberality,  that  he 
not  only  built  a  fair  and  firm  range  of  twenty  chambers,  (from  the 

•  The  three  former  were  put  in  by  the  foundress's  executors.  t  I  am  since 

iuformed,  onS,  once  a  servant  of  bishop  Montague,  hath  given  them  one  in  Bedfordshire. 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


38  ELIZABETH.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  217 

addition  whereof,  a  second  court  refiulteth  to  the  CoIlege,)^ut  also 
augmented  the  Scholarships  of  the  foundation,  and  founded  fout 
Fellowships  and  eight  Scholarships  more.  Herein  his  favour  justly 
reflected  on  his  countrymen  of  Bedfordshire,  preferring  them  before 
others  to  places  of  his  own  foundation. 

Nor  comes  the  bounty  of  sir  John  Brereton  much  behind  him* 
He  was  (as  I  may  term  him)  one  of  the  aborigines  of  the  College, 
one  of  the  first  Scholars  of  the  House ;  and  afterwards  became  his 
majesty^s  Serjeant  for  the  kingdom  of  Ireland.  At  his  death  he 
was  not  unmindfiil  of  this  his  mother,  to  whom  he  bequeathed  a 
large  legacy,  above  two  thousand  pounds.  Now,  whereas  some 
benebcioTB  in  repute  are  mo/^fiictors  in  effect,  (giving  to  Colleges 
&opa  o&mpa^  namely,  such  as  burden  and  clog  their  donations  to 
maintain  more  than  they  are  able,  (whereby  their  gifts  become 
suckers,  impairing  the  root  of  the  foundation,)  sir  John^s  gift  was  so 
left  at  large  for  the  disposal  thereof,  that  it  became  a  gift  indeed, 
and  really  advanced  the  good  of  the  College. 

This  College  continued  without  a  chapel  some  years  after  the 
first  founding  thereof,  until  at  last  some  good  menu's  charity  sup- 
plied this  defect.  Some  have  falsely  reported,  that  the  now-chapel 
of  the  College  was  formerly  a  stable ;  whereas  indeed  it  was  the 
Franciscans^  ancient  dormitory,  as  appeareth  by  the  concavities  still 
extant  in  the  walls,  places  for  their  several  reposure.  But  others 
have  complained,  that  it  was  never  ceremoniously  consecrated, 
which  they  conceive  essential  thereunto,  whilst  there  want  not  their 
equals  in  learning  and  religion  who  dare  defend,  that  the  continued 
series  of  divine  duties,  (praying,  preaching,  administering  the  sacra- 
ment,) publicly  practised  for  more  than  thirty  years,  (without  the 
least  check  or  control  of  those  in  authority,)  in  a  place  set  apart  to 
that  purpose,  doth  sufficiently  consecrate  the  same. 

It  is  as  yet  but  early  days  with  this  College,  which  hath  not  seen 
sixty  years ;  yet  hath  it  been  fruitful  in  worthy  men  proportionably 
to  the  age  thereof,  and  I  hope  it  will  daily  increase.  Now,  though 
it  be  only  the  place  of  the  parents,  and  proper  to  him  (as  ilie 
greater)  to  bless  his  child,  Heb.  vii.  6,  yet  it  is  the  duty  of  the 
child  to  pray  for  his  parents ;  in  which  relation  my  best  desires  are 
due  to  this  Foundation,  my  mother  for  my  last  eight  years  in  this 
University.  May  her  lamp  never  lack  light  for  the  oil,  or  oil  for 
the  light  thereof !  "  Zoar,  is  it  not  a  little  one  ?  "  Yet  who  shall 
despise  the  day  of  small  things  ?  May  the  foot  of  sacrilege,  if  once 
offering  to  enter  the  gates  thereof,  stumble,  and  rise  no  more ! 
The  Lord  bless  the  labours  of  all  the  Students  therein,  that  they 
may  tend  and  end  at  his  glory,  their  own  salvation,  the  profit  an4 
honour  of  the  church  and  commonwealth  ! 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


2X8  HISTORY  OF  THE  A.B.  1605, 

John  Jegon,  Vice-Chancellor ;  William  Moon  and  Richard 
Sutton,  Proctors ;  Robert  Wallis,  Mayor,     a.d.  1596-07. 

John  Jegon,  Vice-Chancellor;  Nathanael  Cole  and  William 
Rich,  Proctors ;  James  Robson,  Mayor.    1597-88. 

41 — 43.  Club-Law  (leted  in  dare-HaU.     Complained  of  by  the 
\  Townsmen  to  the  Cotmcil-Table.    How  declined. 

The  yousg  Scholars,  conceiving  themselyes  somewhat  wronged 
by  the  townsmen,  (the  particulars  whereof  I  know  not,)  betook 
them  for  revenge  to  their  wits,  as  the  weapon  wherein  lay  their  best 
advantage.  These,  having  gotten  a  discovery  of  some  town* 
privacies  from  Miles  Goldsborough,  one  of  their  own  corporation, 
composed  a  merry  (but  abusive)  comedy,  (whieh  they  called 
*'  Club-La w,'')  in  English,  as  calculated  for  the  capacities  of  such, 
.whom  they  intended  spectators  thereof.  Clare  Hall  was  the  place 
wherein  it  was  acted ;  and  the  mayor,  with  his  brethren,  and  their 
wives,  were  invited  to  behold  it,  or  rather  themselves  abused 
therein.  A  convenient  place  was  assigned  to  the  townsfolk, 
(riveted  in  with  Scholars  on  all  sides,)  where  they  might  see  and  be 
seen.  Here  they  did  behold  themselves  in  their  own  best  clothes, 
(which  the  Scholars  had  borrowed,)  so  livelily  personated,  their 
habits,  gestures,  language,  lieger-jests,  and  expressions,  that  it  was 
hard  to  decide  which  was  the  true  townsman,  whether  he  that  sat 
by,  or  he  who  acted  on  the  stage.  Sit  still  they  could  not  for 
chafing,  go  out  they  could  not  for  crowding,  but,  impjatiently 
patient,  were  fain  to  attend  till  dismissed  at  the  end  of  th6 
comedy. 

.  The  mayor  and  his  brethren  soon  after  complain  of  this 
libellous  play  to  the  lords  of  the  Privy  Council,  and  truly  aggravate 
the  Scholars^  offence,  as  if  the  mayor^s  mace  could  not  be  played 
with  but  that  the  sceptre  itself  is  touched  therein.  Now,  though 
such  the  gravity  of  the  lords,  as  they  must  maintain  magistracy,  and 
not  behold  it  abused ;  yet  such  their  goodness,  they  would  not  with 
too  much  severity  punish  wit,  though  waggishly  employed ;  and 
therefore  only  sent  some  slight  and  private  check  to  the  principal 
actors  therein. 

There  goeth  a  tradition,  many  earnestly  engaging  for  the  truth 
thereof,  that  the  townsmen,  not  contented  herewith,  importunately 
pressed,  that  some  more  severe  and  public  punishment  might  be<: 
inflicted  upon  them.  Hereupon,  the  lords  promised  in  short  time 
to  come  to  Cambridge ;  and,  because  the  life  in  such  things  is 
lacking  when  only  read^  they  themselves  would  see  the  same 
comedy,  with  all  the  properties  thereof,   acted  over  again,   (the 

Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


1 JAMSB.  UNIVBR8ITT  OF  CiLMBBIBOE.  219 

townsmen,  as  fannerly,  1>eing  enjoined  to  be  present  thereat,)  that 
so  thej  might  the  better  proportion  the  punishment  to  the  fault,  if 
any  appeared.  But  rather  than  the  townsmen  would  be  witnesses 
again  to  their  own  abusing,  (wherein  many  things  were  too  far  from 
-—and  some  things  too  near  to— truth,)  they  &irly  fell  off  from 
aoy  farther  prosecution  of  the  matter. 

U,  45.  Boben  Earl  of  JSttex  made  Ckanedhr.    Sir  JBobert  Cecil 
chosen  Chancellor. 

Upon  the  death  of  William  Cecil,  lord  Burghley,  Robert  Dcve- 
leux,  earl  of  Essex,  was  chosen  Chancellor  of  the  University. 
Coming  to  Cambridge,  he  was  entertained  in  Queens's  College, 
where  the  room  he  lodged  in  is  called  ^^  Essex  chamber  ^^  to  this 
day,  and  where  the  pleasant  comedy  of  "  Lelia  ^  was  excellently 
acted  before  him. 

Robert  Soame,  Vice-chancellor;  William  Boise  and  Randal 
Woodcock,  Proctors;  John  Yaxley,  Mayor,     a.d.  1598-99. 

John  Jegon,  Vice-Chancellor ;  John  Ooslin  and  George  Moun- 
tain, Proctors ;  Jeremy  Chase,  Mayor.    1599-1600. 

John  Duport,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Robert  Naunton  and  Thomas 
Morison,  Proctors ;  John  Jenkinson,  Mayor.     1600-1. 

Sir  Robert  Cecil,  principal  secretary  of  state,  was  chosen  Chan- 
cellor of  the  University,  and  did  greatly  befriend  it  on  all 
occasions.  He  was  afterward  earl  of  Salisbury,  and  lord  treasurer 
of  England 

William  Smith,  Vice-Chancellor;  Richard  Trim  and  John 
Porthenho,  CoUegii  Trinitatis^  Proctors  ;  Edward  Potto,  Mayor. 
A.D.  1601-2. 

John  CoweU,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Nathanael  Wibum  and  Edward 
Barwell,  CcUegii  CAristi^  Proctors;  Henry  Jackson,  Mayor. 
1602-3. 

46,  47.  Kin^  Jameses  matchless  Entertainment  at  Hinehinbrook ; 
where  the  Doctors  of  Cambridge  wait  on  His  Majesty. 
1  James. 

King  James  removed  by  many  small  journeys  and  great  feastings 
from  Scotland  to  London.  Always  the  last  place  he  lodged  in 
seemed  so  complete  for  entertainment,  that  nothing  could  be  added 
thereunto  ;  and  yet  commonly  the  next  stage  exceeded  it  in  some 
stately  accession ;  until  at  last,  April  27th,  his  majesty  came  to 
Hinehinbrook,  nigh  Huntingdon,  the  house  of  Master  Oliver  Crom- 
well, where  such  his  reception,  that,  in  a  manner,  it  made  all  former 
entertainments  forgotten,  and  all  future  to  despair  to  do  the  like. 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


220  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1607. 

All  tlie  pipes  about  the  house  expressed  themselves  in  no  othet 
language  than  the  several  sorts  of  the  dioicest  wines.  The  enter- 
tainer being  so  rich  a  subject,  and  the  entertained  so  renowned  a 
sovereign,  altered  the  nature  of  what  here  was  expended,  (otherwise 
justly  censurable  for  prodigality,)  to  be  deservedly  commended  for 
true  magnificence. 

But  it  was  the  banquet  which  made  the  feast  so  complete. 
Hither  came  the  Heads  of  the  University  of  Cambridge,  in  their 
scarlet  gowns  and  comer  caps,  where  Mr.  Robert  Naunton,  the 
Orator,  made  a  learned  Latin  oration,  wherewith  his  majesty  was 
highly  affected.  The  very  variety  of  Latin  was  welcome  to  his  ears,. 
formerly  almost  surfeited  with  so  many  long  English  speeches,  made 
to  him  as  he  passed  every  corporation.  The  Heads  in  general 
requested  a  confirmation  of  their  privileges,  (otherwise  uncourtlike 
at  this  present  to  petition  for  particulars,)  which  his  highness  most 
villingly  granted.  Here  one  might  have  seen  the  king  (passing 
over  all  other  Doctors  for  his  seniors)  apply  himself  much  in  his 
discourse  to  Dr.  Montague,  Master  of  Sidney  College.  This  was 
much  observed  by  the  courtiers,  (who  can  see  tbe  beams  of  royal 
favour  shining  in  at  a  small  cranny,)  interpreting  it  a  token  of  bis 
great  and  speedy  preferment,  as  indeed  it  came  to  pass* 

48.  The  Death  of  Mr.  Perkins. 

Within  the  compass  of  this  last  year  (but  in  the  reign  of  queen 
Elizabeth)  died  that  worthy  and  painful  servant  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Mr,  William  Perkins,  whose  Life  I  have  formerly  written,*  and, 
therefore,  forbear  any  repetition.  He  was  buried  in  his  own  parish 
church  of  St.  Andrews's,  in  Cambridge.  Only  I  will  add,  it  sadded 
me  lately  to  see  that  church  wherein  this  Saint  was  interred  ready 
to  fall  to  the  ground.  Jacob  said  of  Bethel^  the  house  of  God, 
"  How  dreadful  is  this  place  ! "'  (Gen.  xxviii.  17.)  I  am  sorry  it 
may,  in  a  far  different  sense,  be  said  of  this  St.  Andrew's  filling 
such  as  approach  to  it  with  fear  of  the  ruins  thereof.  I  say  no 
more,  but  as  David  was  glad  to  go  vp  to  the  house  of  the  Lord,  all 
good  men  may  be  sorrowful  to  behold  God's  ruinous  house  coming 
down  to  them. 

John  Cowell,  Vice-Chancellor ;  John  Andrews,  Mayor.  a.d. 
1603-4. 

Richard  Claton,  Vice-Chancellor;  John  Edmonds  and  Robert 
Wallis,  Mayors.     1604-5. 

•  In  my  "  Holy  State/' 


Digitized  by 


Google 


BjaUWB.  UNIYBBSnT  OF  CAMBEIDOE.  221 

49 — 51.  Be&usantf  Presentations  given  to  the  Unitersities,  The 
Statute^  how  frequently  frustrated  by  Recusants.  Burgessei 
granted  the  Unitersities, 

It  was  enacted  in  parliament,  that  the  Chancellor  and  Scholars  of 
the  University  of  Cambridge  shall  haye  the  presentation,  nomina- 
tion, collation,  and  donation  of  and  to  every  such  benefice,  prebend, 
or  ecclesiastical  living,  school,  hospital,  and  donative  as  shall 
happen  to  be  void  dnring  such  time  as  the  patron  thereof  shall  be 
and  remain  a  recusant  convict  in  the  counties  of  Essex,  Hertford, 
Bedford,  Cambridge,  Huntingdon,  Suffolk,  Norfolk,  Rutland, 
Leicester,  Lincoln,  Derby,  Nottingham,  Shropshire,  Cheshire, 
Lancaster,  York,  bishopric  of  Duresme,  Northumberland,  Cumber- 
land, Westmoreland,  Radnor,  Denbigh,  Flint,  Carnarvon,  Meri- 
oneth, Glamorgan,  Anglesey. 

The  other  moiety  of  counties  was  bestowed  on  Oxford.  In  this 
division,  the  greater  half  of  the  land  fell  to  the  share  of  Cambridge, 
whether  we  reckon  the  number  of  shires,  being  more,  or  measure 
the  extent  of  ground,  being  greater,  or  consider,  (the  main  matter 
herein,)  that  recusant-patrons  were  most  numerous  in  the  northern 
parts  of  the  kingdom. 

However,  I  have  heard  it  oft  complained  of,  that  this  statute 
took  not  effect  according  to  the  true  intent  thereof;  either  because 
many  bishops  were  very  backward  in  giving  institutions  on  the 
presentations  of  the  University,  wherein  we  are  willing  to  believe 
the  fault  not  in  them,  but  their  officers  ;  or  because  it  is  so  hard  a 
thing  to  prove  or  convict  the  legal  conviction  of  a  papist ;  or 
recusant-patrons,  before  their  conviction,  had  such  sleights,  by 
pre-conveyances  to  make  over  their  advowsons  to  others.  Hence  it 
was,  that  many  clerks,  presented  by  the  University,  were  wearied 
out  with  vexatious  suits,  (overpoised  with  the  weight  of  popish 
patrons'*  purses,)  and  forced  at  last  either  totally  (o  relinquish  their 
title,  or  to  make  a  hard  (not  t6  say  sometimes  an  unworthy) 
composition. 

About  this  time  also  it  was  that  the  two  Universities  were 
honoured  by  the  king,  to  have  their  respective  burgesses  to  repre- 
sent them  in  parliament. 

Samuel  Harsnet,  Vice-chancellor;  Miles  Raven  and  Edward 
Sent,  Proctors ;  John  Edmonds,  Mayor,     a.d.  1605-6. 

52.  The  Death  and  high  Epitaph  of  Dr.  Playfere. 

Roger  Goade,  Vice-Chancellor ;  William  Barton  and   Samuel 
Tindal,  Proctors;  William  Arthur,  Mayor,     a.d.  1606-7. 
Thomas   Playfere,   D.D.   Fellow  of  St.  John's  College,  and 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ  l€ 


222  HISTORY  OP  THE  a.d.  1617. 

Margaret  Professor,  died  this  year,  and  was  buried  in  the  chancel 
of  St.  Buttolf 's  [Botolph's]  church,  where  this  is  part  of  his 
epitaph  :— 

Minister  Hie  Triados^  enthei  hgii 
Oraculum,  patronus  artium^  parens 
Scientiarum^  concionum  rex^  sacrce 
Cathedrce  imperator^fulmen  et  tonitru  scholce^ 
Suadce  maritus^  ac  gemellus  ingeniy 
Ardor  eorum^  et  exterce  g$ntis  stupor^  ^c. 

Should  this  epitaph  come  under  the  hands  of  those  Grecian 
officers  deputed  to  proportion  men's  monuments  to  their  merits,  it 
is  suspicious,  they  would  make  bold  to  pare  part  thereof;  though 
indeed  the  Doctor  was  one  of  excellent  parts,  and  a  great  com- 
mander of  the  Latin  tongue.  Dr.  John  Davenant  succeeded  in  the 
Professor's  place. 

Robert  Soame  and  Thomas  Jegon,  Vice-Chancellors ;  George 
Dearing  and  Thomas  Cecil,  Proctors ;  Jeremy  Chase,  Mayor. 
A.  D.  1607-8* 

John  Duport,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Richard  Bridges  and  Anthony 
Disborough,  Proctors  ;  Thomas  French,  Mayor.     1608-9. 

Fogg  Newton,  Vice-Chancellor;  Abraham  Bidle  and  Leonard 
Maw,  Proctors ;  Thomas  French,  Mayor.     1609-10.  . 

53—55.  Muster  Amese  troMed  about  his  Sermon  in  St.  Ma^fs, 
against  all  playing  at  Cards  and  Dice.  He  leavetk  the 
College. 

Barnabas  Gouge,  Vice-Chancellor ;  John  Aungier  and  William 
Adison,  Proctors ;  Thomas  French,  Mayor,     a.  d.  1610-11. 

About  this  time  William  Amese  [Ames],  Fellow  of  Christ's 
College  in  CamBridge,  on  St.  Thomas's  day,  had,  to  use  his  own 
expression, "t*  "  the  place  of  a  watchman  for  an  hour  in  the  tower  of 
the  University  T'  and  took  occasion  to  inveigh  against  the  liberty 
taken  at  that  time,  especially  in  such  Colleges  who  had  lords  of  mis- 
ruley  a  pagan  relic,  which,  he  said,  as  Polydore  Virgil  observeth, 
"  remaineth  only  in  England.*"! 

Hence  he  proceeded  to  condemn  all  playing  at  cards  and  diee, 

*  At  this  point  commences  another  discrepancy  between  Fuller  and  Le  Neve  j  the 
latter  giving  as  the  records  of  this  year  only  Robert  Soamoj  Vice^ChanceUor,  "with 
Dearing  and  Cecill  as  Proctors  j  and  Thomas  Jegon,  Vice-Chancellor  of  the  foUowing 
year,  \nth  Bridges  and  Disborough  as  Proctors.  This  error,  on  the  part  of  Fidler, 
continues  to  the  end  of  this  Section,  anno  1617  ;  where  the  reader  wlU  find  his  ow^ 
ingenuous. acknowledgment  of  the  mistake.— Edit.  ^  la  a  letter  I  have  of  his 

t6  his  friend.  t  Lib.  v.  cap.  2. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


fijAHES.  UNIVEBSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  22S 

affinning  that  the  hitter,  in  all  ages,  was  accounted  the  device  of  the 
devil ;  Uiat  as  God  invented  the  one-and-twenty  letters  whereof  he 
made  the  Bible,  the  devil,  saith  an  author,*  found  out  the  one-and- 
twenty  pricks  of  the  dice ;  that  canon  law  forbade  the  use  thereof, 
seeing  intentio  diaboli  ntiUd  conauetudine  potest  validari.'f 

His  sermon  gave  much  offence  to  many  of  his  auditors,  the 
rather  because  in  him  there  was  a  concurrence  of  much  non- 
conformity, insomuch  that,  to  prevent  an  expulsion  from  Dr.  Gary, 
the  Master,  he  feirly  forsook  the  College,  which  proved  unto  him 
neither  loss  nor  disgrace,  being  not  long  afler,  by  the  States  of 
Friezland,  chosen  Professor  in  their  University. 

Valentine  Gary,  Vice-Ghancellor ;  Thomas  Miriall  and  John 
Williams,  Proctors ;  Thomas  Smart,  Mayor,     a.d.  1611-12. 

Glemens  Gorbet,  Vice-Ghancellor ;  Richard  Thompson,  Stephen 
Paget,  and  Henry  Bird,  Proctors;  Edward  Gropley,  Mayor. 
1612-13. 

Samuel  Harsenett,  Vice-Ghancellor ;  Arthur  Johnson  and  Rich- 
ard Anguish,  Proctors  ;  John  Wicksted,  Mayor.     1613-14. 

Owen  Gwin,  Vice-Ghancellor ;  Thomas  Kitchin  and  John  Dod, 
Proctors  ;  Thomas  French,  Mayor.    1614-15. 

56.  Mr,  SympsorCa  Sermon  and  Recantation. 

John  Hill,  Vice-Ghancellor ;  Andrew  Pern  and  Thomas  Smith, 
Proctors  ;  Robert  Lukin,  Mayor,     a.d.  1816-17. 

Edward  Sympson,  (a  very  good  scholar,)  Fellow  of  Trinity 
College,  preached  a  sermon  before  king  James,  at  Royston,  taking 
for  his  text,  "  That  which  is  bom  of  the  flesh  is  flesh.''  (John 
iii.  6.)  Hence  he  endeavoured  to  prove,  that  the  commission  of 
any  great  sin  doth  extinguish  grace  and  God's  Spirit  for  the  time  in 
the  man.  He  added  also,  that  St.  Paul,  in  the  seventh  chapter  to 
the  Romans,  spake  not  of  himself  as  an  apostle  and  regenerate,  but 
9ub  statu  legis,  Hereat  his  majesty  took  (and  publicly  expressed) 
great  distaste,  because  Arminius  had  lately  been  blamed  for  extract- 
ing the  like  exposition  out  of  the  works  of  Faustus  Socinus. 
Whereupon  he  sent  to  the  two  Professors  in  Gambridge,  for  their 
judgment  herein,  who  proved  and  subscribed  the  place  ad  Romanos 
sqptimo  to  be  understood  of  a  regenerate  man,  according  to  St. 
Augustine's  latter  opinion  in  his  "  Retractions ;"  and  the  Preacher 
was  enjoined  a  public  recantation  before  the  king,  which  accordingly 
vas  performed.  Nor  doth  such  a  palinody  sound  any  thing  to  his 
disgrace,  Laving  St.  Augustine  himself  for  his  .precedent,  modestly 
retracting  what  formeriy  he  had  erroneously  written  therein. 

*  Antonios.  t  Langecrochius  fw  Speculo* 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


224  HISTORY  OF  THfi  a.d.  1618.. 

John  Richardson,  Vice-Chancellor ;  John  Browne  and  George 
Ramsey,  Proctors ;  Henry  King,  Mayor,     a.  d.  1617-18** 

57.  The  first  and  last  Knight  Mayor  of  Cambridge. 

William  Branthwait  and  John  Goslin,  Vice-Chancellors ;  John 
Smithson  and  Alexander  Read,  Proctors;  sir  Edward  Hinde, 
knight.  Mayor,     a.d.  1618-19. 

The  neighbouring  gentry  of  Cambridge,  being  very  pleasant  at  a 
merry-meeting,  resolved  in  a  frolic  to  be  made  freemen,  and  so 
successively  to  take  their  turns  in  being  Mayor  thereof.  The 
townsmen  promised  themselves  great  matters  hereby,  (betwixt 
whom  «nd  the  University  some  petty  animosities  at  present,)  when 
persons  of  such  state  and  quality  should  head  their  corporation,  sir 
Edward  Hinde,  of  Madingley,  knight,  led  the  dance,  and  kept  his 
mayoralty  in  Cambridge,  expecting  others  in  order  to  follow  him ; 
who,  considering  the  expensiveness  of  the  place,  (with  some  others 
no  less  politic  than  thrifty  considerations,)  receded  from  the  resolu- 
tion, and  let  the  good  knight  alone,  to  possess  that  honour  by  him- 
self.    Townsmen  (as  formerly)  succeeded  him  therein* 


SECTION  IX. 

THOMJE  PLAYER  ARMIGERO,  CAMERARII 
LONDINENSIS  PRIMOGENITO, 

Tandem  aliquando,  Deo  duce,  post  varios  anfractus,  et 
vias  invias,  ad  Historise  finem  perventum  est.  Nee 
diffiteor  me  non  fessum  mod6,  sed  et  lassum,  ctiin  mihi 
ita  deficiant  vires,  ut  nunc,  ciim  pes  sit  figendus,  vix 
possim  me  continere,  ne  pronus  corruam.  Opus  mihi 
igitur  jam  eoncludenti,  patrono,  non  forti  miniis  qui 
possit,  qudm  miti  qui  velit,  me  nutantem  sustentare,  vel 
fort^  labascentem  erigere.  Hie  tu  mihi  occurris  exopta- 
tissimus,  qui  tarn  mentis  quslm  corporis  dotibus  es  spec- 
tabilis.  Spero  igitur  finem,  opus  meum;  certus  scio, 
nomen  tuum,  finem  operis  coronaturum. 

•  Thii  and  the  Bubsequent  paragraph  are  repeated,  throxigh  mistake,  in  the  next 
Section,  page  226  j  where  see  FuUer'a  note.— -Edit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


16  JAMBS.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDOS.  225 

1—3.  Hmry  Howard  CfhaneeUor  of  Cambridge.    Sometimeg  it 

hitt.  His  learned  Book.  15  James. 
Here  we  have  omitted  (to  confess  and  amend  a  fault  is  pardon- 
able) how,  after  the  decease  of  Robert  Cecil,  earl  of  Salisbury,  (one 
no  less  willing  than  able  on  all  occasions  to  befriend  the  Univer- 
fiitj,)  dying  €mno  1612,  Henry  Howard,  earl  of  Northampton,  was 
chosen  Chancellor  of  Cambridge.  He  was  son  to  Henry  earl  of 
Surrey,  (beheaded  1546,  for  a  mere  state-nicety,)  and  succeeded,  as 
to  his  name,  to  his  excellent  parts  and  industry,  being  bred  in 
King's  College,  where  he  attained  to  a  great  degree  of  eminency  for 
leainiDg. 

He  told  his  intimate  Secretary,*  who  related  it  to  me,  that  his 
nativity,  at  his  fether's  desire,  was  calculated  by  a  skilful  Italian 
astrologer;  who  told  him,  that  this  his  infent-son  should  taste  of 
much  trouble  in  the  midst  of  his  life,  even  to  the  want  of  a  meal's 
meat,  but  his  old  age  should  make  amends  for  all,  with  a  plentiful 
estate ;  which  came  to  pass  accordingly.  For,  his  father  dying  in 
tifi  infimcy,  no  plentiful  provision  was  made  for  him  ;  and  when  his 
eldest  brother,  Thomas  duke  of  Norfolk,  was  executed,  his  condi- 
tion was  much  impaired:  insomuch  that  once  being  in  London, 
(not  overstocked  with  money,)  when  his  noble  nephews,  the  earl  of 
Anmdel  and  the  lord  Thomas  Howard,  were  out  of  the  city,  and 
loath  to  pin  himself  on  any  table  uninvited,  he  was  &in  to  dme 
with  the  chaii  of  duke  Humphrey,  but  other  (not  to  say  better) 
company,  namely,  reading  of  books  in  a  stationer's  shop  in  Paul's 
dmrchyard.  But  king  James,  coming  to  the  crown,  and  beholding 
^e  Howards  as  his  mother's  martyrs,  lemed  them  with  his  favours ; 
and  this  lord  attained,  under  hiniy  to  great  wealth,  honour,  and 
command. 

However,  this  lord  gave  little  credit  to,  and  placed  less. con- 
fidence  in,  such  predictions ;  as  appeared  by  a  learned  work  he  hath 
^tten  of  that  subject.^  He  died  anno  1614 :  and  his  nephew, 
Thomas  Howard,  earl  of  Suffolk,  succeeded  him  in  the  Chancellor's 
place  of  the  University. 

John  Richardson,  Vice-chancellor;  John  Smithson  and  Alex- 
ander Read,  Proctors ;  John  Durant,  Mayor,     a.d.  1617-1& 

4:.  The  Death  of  Dr.  Butler. 
On  the  29th  of  January  died  Mr.  WUliam  Butler,  the  iEscula- 
pios  of  our  age ;  as,  by  the  inscription  on  his  marble  tomb,  in  the 
chancel  of  St.  Mary's,  will  appear : — 

*  Mr.  George  Pauij.  f  A  OefeiUMtiTe  agalnet  tbe  Poiaon  of  Apposed 

Piopliectai."— Edit. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


226  HISTORY  OF  THE  a.d.  1624. 

Nil,  prohy  marmor  agis^  Butlerum  dum  tegisy  ilium 

Si  splendore  tuo  nomen  habere  putas. 
Ille  tibi  monumentum,  tu  digneris  ab  illo  ; 

Butleri  vivis  munere  marmor  iners. 
Sic  homines  tnvuSy  sic  mird  mortuus  arle^ 

Phcsbo  chare  senex^  vivere  saxafacis. 

But  the  prose  is  higher  than  the  verse  ;  and  might  have  served 
for  Joseph  of  Arimathea  to  have  inscribed  on  the  monument  of  our 
Saviour ;  whereof  this  is  a  part  :— 

Abiy  viator^  el  ad  tuos  reversus  dic^  te  vidisse 
Locum  in  quo  salus  jacet. 

He  gave  to  Clare  Hall,  whereof  he  was  Fellow,  a  chalice,  with  a 
cover  of  beaten  gold,  weighing  and  worth  three  hundred  pounds, 
besides  other  plate  and  books,  to  the  value  of  five  hundred  pounds. 

William  Branthwait  and  John  Goslin,  Vice-chancellors ;  Henry 
Goch  and  Thomas  Horseman,  Proctors ;  Richard  Fojcton,  Mayor. 

A.i).ieid-i9.* 

5 — 8.  TheMa/rqum  of  Hamilton  made  Earl  of  Cambridge.    Mr. 

Preston  prosecuted  by  the  Commissary;   cmd  hmo  eseapingn 

The  Lord  Mainard  fomdeth  a  Logic-Professor.     The  ScAo^ 

tars'"  Number. 

The  title  of  the  earldom   of  Cambridge,  which,  as  we  have 

formerly  observed,  was  only  conferred  on  foreign  princes,  or  those 

of  the  English  blood^royal,  had  now  lien  dormant  since  the  death 

of  Richard  Plantagenet,  duke  of  York,  and  eighth  earl  of  Cam- 

bridge.-f-     It  was  now  the  king^s  pleasure,  in  imitation  of  his  ances* 

tors,   (reserving  that  honour  for  some  prime  person,)  to  confer 

the  same  on  his  near  kinsman,  James  marquess  Hamilton;  who, 

dying  some  six  years  after,  left  his  title  to  James  his  Cfon,  the  last 

earl  during  the  extent  of  our  History. 

Robert  Scot,  Vice-Chancellor;  William  Roberts  and  Robert 
Mason,  Proctors ;  Ridiard  Foxton,  Mayor,    a.  d,  161&*-20. 

*  To  ther  list  of  ^rraia,  at  the  close  of  the  Index  to  the  first  edition  (folio)  of  tid» 
y9oA,  Fnller  has  appended  the  subjoined  note. — Edit. 

«  Qonrteoos  reader,  I  am  sensible  of  a  mistake  in  the  catalogue  of  Vice-ChaaceilcNrs 
and  Proctors  of  Cambridge,  (besides  a  needless  repetition  of  two,  twice,)  betwixt   the 
years  1617  and  1620,  inclusively.     It  arose  from  some  difference  betwixt  the  written 
copies  I  used,  and  such  (I  believe,  the  truer)  as  are  since  printed.     I  see  what,  not 
i^vhither,  to  fly  ^  who  can  discover,  do  confess,  but  (for  the  present)  cannot  rectify  the 
error,  craving  the  charitable  assistance  of  my  mother's  sons  herein.     The  best  is,  all  i 
the  mistake  lieth  within  the  compass  of  three  years,  (all  o£Bicers  being  right  before  and  1 
after,)  and  the  fortunes  of  Greece,  the  truth,  I  mean,  of  our  Church-History  is  not  con-  I 
cemed  therein."   See  preceding  page,  224.  f  This  is  one  of  the  points  disputed  i 

by  Heylfai }  but  in  which  Fuller,  in  his  «  Appeal,'*  proves  himself  to  have  been  c<«rect. 


— Edit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


23jiMi8.  UNIVBR8ITT  OF  CAHBRIDQE.  227 

Mr.  John  Preston,  Fellow  of  Queen^s,  suspected  for  inclination 
to  nonconfonnity,  intended  to  preach  in  the  afternoon,  (St.  Mary^s 
sennon  being  ended,)  in  BotolpVs  chnrch.  But  Dr.  Newoomb, 
commissary  to  the  Cluincellor  of  Ely,  offended  with  the  pressing  of 
the  people,  enjoined  that  service  should  be  said  without  sermon. 
In  opposition  whereunto,  a  sermon  was  made  without  sendee; 
where  large  complaints  to  Iiancelot  Andrews,  bishop  of  Ely,  and,  in 
fine,  to  the  king  himself.  Hereupon  Mr.  Preston  was  enjoined  to 
make  what  his  foes  call  a  recanicMon-  his  friends  a  deelariation' . 
seimon,  therein  so  warily  expressing  his  allowance  of  the  lituigy, 
and  set  forms  of  prayer,  that  he  neither  displeased  his  own  party, 
nor  gave  his  enemies  any  great  advantage. 

Samuel  Ward,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Gabriel  More  and  Philip  Pow- 
let.  Proctors;  Richard  Foxton,  Mayor,     a.d.  1620-21. 

William  lord  Mainard,  first  of  Wicklow  in  Ireland,  then  of 
Estaines  in  England,  brought  up,  when  a  young  scholar,  in  St. 
John^s  College,  (where  Dr.  Playfere  thus  versed  it  on  his  name, 

Inter  menses  Maids,  et  inter  arenuita  NabduSi) 

founded  a  place  for  a  Logic-Professor,  assigning  him  a  salary  of 
forty  pounds  per  annum ;  and  one  Mr.  Thornton,  Fellow  of  the 
same  College,  made  first  Professor  of  that  faculty. 

Le(»uird  Maw,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Thomas  Sounp,  Thomas  Par- 
kinson, and  Charles  Mordant,  Proctors ;  Edward  Potto,  Mayor. 
A.D.  1621-22. 

An  exact  survey  was  taken  of  the  number  of  Students  in  the 
University,  whose  total  sum  amounted  unto  two  thousand  nine 
hundred  ninety  and  eight.* 

Hieiome  Beale,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Thomas  Adam  and  Nathanael 
Flick,  Proctors ;  Thomas  Atkinson,  Mayor,    a.d.  1622-23. 

9—11.  A  tough  CcKwassfor  Trinity-Lecture.  Dr.  Preston  earriee 
it  dear.    King  Jameis  Icut  Coming  to  Cambridge. 

Thomas  Paske,  Vice-Chancellor ;  John  Smith  and  Amias  Rid* 
ding,  ProctiMB ;  Thomas  Purchas,  Mayor,     a.d.  1623-24. 

The  town-lecture  at  Trinity  church  being  void,  two  appeared 
competitors  for  the  same ;  namely.  Dr.  John  Preston,  now  Master 
of  Emmanuel,  preacher  at  Lincoln VInn,  and  chaplam  to  prince 
Charles,  generally  desired  by  the  townsmen,  contributors  to  the 
lecture.  Paul  Micklethwait,  Fellow  of  Sidney  College,  an  eminent 
preacher,  favoured  by  the  diocesan  bishop  of  Ely,  and  all  the  Heads 
of  Houses,  to  have  the  place. 

•"  Tables  of  John  Scot." 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


228  HISTORY  OF  THE  a,d.  1628. 

'■  The  contest  grew  high  and  hard,  insomuch  as  the  Court  was 
engaged  therein.  Many  admired  that  Dr.  Pre3t6n  would  stickle  so 
much  for  so  small  a  matter  as  an  annual  stipend  of  eighty  pounds^ 
issuing  out  of  more  than  thrice  eighty  purses.  But  his  party 
pleaded  bis  zeal,  not  to  get  gold  by — ^but  to  do  good  in — the  place, 
vhere,  (such  the  confluence  of  scholars  to  the  church,)  that  he 
might  generare  patres^  "  beget  begetters,''  which  made  him  to  wave 
the  bishopric  of  Gloucester,  (now  void,  and  offered  unto  him,)  in 
comparison  of  this  lecture. 

.  At  Dr.  Preston's  importunity,  the  duke  of  Buckingham,  inter-  | 
posing  his  power,  secured  it  unto  him.  Thus  was  he  at  the  same  | 
time  preacher  to  two  places,  (though  neither  had  cure  of  souls 
legally  annexed,)  LiricolnVInn,  and  Trinity  church  in  Catabridge. 
As  Elisha  cured  the  waters  of  Jericho,  by  going  forth  to  the  spring- 
head, and  casting  in  salt  there  ;  so  was  it  the  design  of  this  Doctor, 
for  the  better  propagation  of  his  principles,  to  infuse  ihem  into 
these  two  fountains,  the  one  of  Law,  the  other  of  Divinity.  And 
some  conceive  that  those  doctrines  by  him  then  delivered  have  since 
had  their  use  and  application.  | 

John  Mansell,  Vice-Chancellor ;  William  Bo^well  and  Thomas  ; 
Bowles,  Proctors  ;  Thomas  Purchas,  Mayor,     a.d.  1624r-25. 

King  James  caine  to  Cambridge,  lodged  in  Trinity  College,  was 
entertained  with  a  Philosophy-Act,  and  other  academical  perform- 
ances. Here,  in  an  extraordinary  Commencement,  many  (but 
ordinary)  persons  were  graduated  Doctors  of  Divinity,  and  other 
&culties. 


12 — ^15.    The  Deaih  of  Mr.  Andrew  Doitmes.    Mr. 
'       chosen  his  Successor,     The  Duke  of  Buckingham  elected  Ghm- 

cellor.     The  Earl  of  Holland  made  Chancellor.    1  Charles  I. 

A.D.  1Q25. 

Andrew  Downes,  Fellow  of  St.  John's,  one  composed  of  Greek 
and  industry,  dieth;  whose  pains  are  so  inlaid  with  sir  Henry 
Saville's  edition  of  Chrysostom,  that  both  will  be  preserved  together. 
Five  were  candidates  for  the  Greek- Professor's  place,  void  by  his 
death  ;  namely,  Edward  Palmer,  esq.  Fellow  of  Trinity  College ; 
Abraham  Wheelocke,  Fellow  of  Clare  Hall ;  Robeirt  Creighton,  of 
Trinity  ;  Ralph  Winterton,  of  King's ;  and  James  White,  Master 
of  Arts,  of  Sidney  College,  How  much  was  there  now  of  Athens 
ip  Cambridge,  when  (besides  many  modestly  concealing  themselves) 
five  able  competitors  appeared  for  the  place  !  , 

All  these  read  solemn  lectures  in  the  Schools  on  a  subject 
appointed  them  by  the  electors ;  namely,  the  first  verses  of  the 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


^CHAELtti.  UNIVERSITY  OP  CAMBKIDOE.  ^2& 

tbree-ancUtwentieth    book    of   Homer's    Iliads,    chiefly    iDsisting 
on,— 

Xaipt  fjboi  J  UorpoieXc  jcal  thf  aSku)  MfAOuri,  &c. 

But  the  pkce  was  conferred  on  Mr.  Robert  Creighton,  who, 
during  Mr.  Downes's  aged  infirmities,  had  (as  Hercules  relieved 
vearj  Atlas)  supplied  the  same,  possessed  by  the  former  full  forty 
years. 

John  Goslin  and  Henry  Smith,  Vice-chancellors ;  John  Norton 
and  Robert  Ward,  Proctors;  Robert  Lukin,  Mayor,  a.d* 
1625-26, 

Thomas  Howard,  earl  of  Suffolk,  Chancellor  of  the  University, 
departed  this  life ;  a  hearty  old  gentleman,  who  wais  a  good  friend 
to  Cambridge,  and  would  have  proved  a  better,  if  occasion  had  been 
offered.  It  argued  the  University's  affection  to  his  memory,  that 
a  grand  party  therein,  unsought,  unsent,  unsued  to,  gave  their 
fiu&iages  for  his  second  son,  Thomas  earl  of  Berkshire,  though  the 
duke  of  Buckingham,  by  very  few  voices,  carried  the  place  of  the 
Chancellor.  This  duke  gave  the  Beadles  their  old  silver  staves, 
and  bestowed  better  and  bigger  on  the  University,  with  the  king's 
and  his  own  arms  insculped  thereon. 

Henry  Smith,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Samuel  Hixton  and  Thomas 
Wake,  Proctors ;  Martin  Peirse,  Mayor,     a.  d.  1626-27. 

Thomas  Bambrigg,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Thomas  Love  and  Edward 
Lloyd,  Proctors ;  John  Shirwood,  Mayor.     1627-28. 

Henry  earl  of  Holland,  recommended  by  his  Majesty  to  the 
University,  is  chosen  Chancellor  thereof,  in  the  place  of  the  duke  of 
Buckingham,  deceased. 

•*/ 
18, 17.    Tke  Lord  Brooke  founded  <m  History-Profmor.     Dr. 
DoridatLs  why  accused. 

Sir  Fulk  Oreville,  lord  Brooke,  bred  long  since  in  Trinity  Col- 
lege, founded  a  place  for  an  History-Professor  in  the  University  of 
Cambridge,  allowing  him  an  annual  stipend  of  an  ^100.  Isaac 
Dorislaus,  Doctor  of  the  Civil  Law,  an  Hollander,  was  first  placed 
therein.  Say  not,  This  implied  want  of  worthy  men  in  Cambridge 
for  that  faculty  ;  it  being  but  fit,  that  founders  should  please  their 
own  fancy  in  the  choice  of  the  first  Professor.  This  Doctor  was  a 
Dutchman,  very  much  Anglicized  in  language  and  behaviour. 
However,  because  a  foreigner,  preferred  to  that  place,  his  lectures 
were  listened  to  with  the  more  critical  attention  of  Cambridge 
auditors. 

Incompaiable  Tacitus  he  chose  for  his  subject;  and  had  not  yet 
passed  over  those  first  words,  Urbem  Bomanam  primd  reges  habu- 

Digitizedby^OOQlC  ■ 


230  flISTORY  OF  THK  a.d.  1632. 

ere^  when  iBome  exception  was  taken  at  his  coidment  thereon.  How 
hard  is  it  for  liquors  not  to  resent  of  the  vessels  they  are  poured 
through  !  for  vessels  not  to  taste  of  that  earth  they  are  made  of! 
Being  bred  in  a  popular  air,  his  words  were  interpreted  by  high 
monarchical  ears,  as  over-praising  a  state,  in  disgrace  of  a  kingdom. 
Hereupon  he  was  accused  to  the  king,  troubled  at  court,  and,  after 
his  submission,  hardly  restored  to  his  place.  This  is  that  Dr. 
Dorislaus,  Cambridge-Professor  of  History  in  his  life,  who  himself 
was  made  an  history  at  his  death,  slain  in  Holland,  when  first 
employed  Ambassador  from  the  Commonwealth  unto  the  States  of 
the  United  Provinces. 

18—22.  dmalrg  Pmwn/^  Cambridge  PUnttf.  The  Candle-mi 
with  the  Totonamm.  The  Fhffue  in  Cambridge.  Good 
Counsel.    King  Charles  and  Queen  Mary  come  to  Cambridge. 

A  great  scarcity  followed  after  the  plenty  in  (and  men's 
unthankfulness  for  it)  the  former  year,  insomuch  that  wheat  was 
sold  in  Cambridge  market  for  ten  shillings  the  bushel ;  whereby  a 
great  improvement  was  made  to  the  Fellowships  of  the  old  founda- 
tions ;  which  the  more  plainly  appears  by  perusing  the  words  of 
Master  Bradford,  written  some  eighty  years  before,  when  Fellow  of 
Pembroke-Hall  :  "  My  Fellowship  here  is  worth  seven  pounds 
a-year ;  for  I  have  allowed  me  eighteen  pence  a  week,  and  as  good 
as  thirty-three  shillings  four-pence  a-year  in  money,  besides  my 
chamber,  launder,  barber,""  *  &c.  If,  since,  Fellows  be  sensible  of 
the  grand  increase  of  their  places,  let  them  thank  God  for  sir 
Thomas  Smith,  and  thank  his  memory  for  procuring  rent-corn  unto 
them. 

Matthew  Wren,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Richard  Love  and  Micbael 
Honywood,  Proctors;  John  Badcock,  Mayor,     a.d.  1628-29. 

A  tough  suit  betwixt  the  University  and  town-chandlers ;  chiefly 
on  the  account,  whether  candles  came  within  the  compass  of focalia, 
and  so  to  have  their  price  reasonably  rated  by  the  Vice-Chancellor. 
The  townsmen  betook  themselves  to  their  lawyers,  the  Scholars  to 
the  lords,  plying  the  Privy-Council  with  learned  letters ;  by  whose 
favour  they  got  the  better ;  and  some  refractory  townsmen,  by 
being  discommoned,  were  humbled  into  obedience. 

Henry  Buts,  Vice-Chancellor;  Thomas  Goad  and  William 
Roberts,  Proctors  ;  Samuel  Spalding,  Mayor,     a.d.  162&-1630. 

The  plague  brake  forth  in  Cambridge.  The  University  in  some 
sort  was  dissolved,  and  Scholars  dispersed  into  the  country.  Three 
hundred  forty-seven  of  the  town-folk  died  of  the  infection.    As 

*  In  hi£i  letter  to  Mjt.  Traves,  Fox's  "  Acte  and  Moniuneiits,"  p.  l^^* 

Digitized  by  LjOOQIC 


8  CHABLK8 1.  UNIVERSITT  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  231 

Ood's  land  ma  just  upon-^fioan^s  was  mercifU  unto— >the  town  of 
Cambridge ;  and  the  signal  bounty  of  London  (amounting  to  some 
thousands  of  pounds)  deserves  never  to  be  forgotten.  But  this 
corruption  of  the  air  proved  the  generation  of  many  Doetors,  gradu- 
ated in  a  clandestine  way,  without  keeping  any  Acts, .  to  the  great 
disgust  of  those  who  had  fiiirly  gotten  their  degrees  with  public 
pains  and  expense*  Yea,  Dr.  Collins,  being  afterwards  to  admit 
an  able  man  Doctor,  did  (according  to  the  pleasantness  of  his  &ncy) 
distinguish  inter  catiedram  pettilenHcPj  et  eaihedram  mninefUiw^ 
leaving  it  to  his  auditors  easily  to  apprehend  his  meaning  therein. 

After  the  return  of  the  Scholars,  one  of  the  first  that  preached  in 
St.  Mary^s  minded  the  University  of  gratitude  to  Ood,  who  had 
dealt  with  them,  said  he,  as  the  children,  sons  of  kings,  are  used ; 
whose  servants,  for  the  more  state,  are  beaten  when  their  young 
masters  are  in  fault.  The  plague  light  on  the  townsmen  ;  though 
Scholars  ought  to  examine  themselves,  whether  they  were  not  the 
chief  offenders. 

Henry  Buts,  Vice-chancellor ;  Peter  Ashton  and  Roger  Hock- 
stater.  Proctors ;  William  Holland,  Mayor,    a.d.  1630^1. 

Henry  Buts  and  Thomas  Cumber,  Vice-Chancellors ;  Thomas 
Tyrwhit  and  Lionel  Gatford,  Proctors ;  Thomas  Purchas,  Mayor. 
A.D.  1631-^2. 

King  Charles  and  queen  Mary  came  to  Cambridge,  were  enters 
tained  at  Trinity  College  with  comedies,  and  expressed  candid 
acceptance  thereof. 

23—26.  Master  Adams  founds  an  Arabic  Professorship.  A 
smart  Passage  in  a  Sermon,  Mr,  Bernard  gives  Distaste 
with  his  Preaching,  Convented  in  the  High  Commission^ 
re/tiseth  to  recant^  and  dieth. 

Thomas  Adams,  (then  citizen,  since  lord  mayor,)  of  London, 
deservedly  commended  for  his  Christian  constancy  in  all  conditions, 
founded  an  Arabian  Professorship,  on  condition  it  were  frequented 
with  competency  of  auditors.  And,  notwithstanding  the  general 
jealousy  that  this  new  Arabia  (happy^  as  all  novelties  at  the  first) 
would  soon  become  ^^;  yet,  it  seems,  it  thrived  so  well,  that 
the  salary  was  settled  on  Abraham  Wheelock,  Fellow  of  Clare 
Hall.  His  industrious  mind  had  vast  stowage  for  words,  and  is 
lately  dead ;  whose  longer  life  had,  in  all  probability,  been  very 
advantageous  to  the  new  edition  of  the  Bible  in  many  languages; 
an  excellent  work,  and  may  it  be  as  happily  performed,  as  it  is 
worthily  undertaken. 

A  grave  divine,  preaching  before  the  University,  at  St.  MaryX 
had  this  passage  in  his  sermon,  that,  as  at  the  Olympian  games  H£ 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


232  HISTORY  OF  THB  .a,d.  1642. 

was  counted  the  conqueror  who  could  drive  his  chariot-wheels  near- 
est the  mark,  yet  so  as  not  to  hinder  his  running,  or  to  stick 
thereon, 

metapie/ervidis 


Evitata  rotU;- 


so  he  who  in  his  sermons  could  preach  near  popery,  and  yet  no 
popery,  "there  was  your  man.'*  And,  indeed,  it  now  began  to 
be  the  general  complaint  of  most  moderate  men,  that  many  in  the 
University,  both  in  the  Schools  and  pulpits,  approached  the  opi- 
nions of  the  church  of  Rome  nearer  {han  ever  before. 

Mr.  Bernard,  a  discontinuer,  and  lecturer  of  St.  Sepulchre's,  in 
London,  preached  at  St.  Mary'^s  in  the  afternoon,  May  6th ;  his 
text,  1  Sam.  iv.  21 :  "  The  glory  is  departed  from  Israel,''  &c.  In 
handling  whereof,  he  let  fall  some  passages  which  gave  distaste  to  a 
prevalent  party  in  the  University ;  as  for  saying,  "  1.  God's  ordi- 
nances, when  blended  and  adidterated  with  innovations  of  men, 
cease  to  be  God's  ordinances,  and  he  owneth  them  no  longer.  2. 
That  it  is  impossible  any  should  be  saved,  living  and  dying  (with- 
out repentance)  in  the  doctrine  of  Rome,  as  the  Tridentine  Coun- 
cil hath  decreed  it.  3.  That  treason  is  not  limited  to  the  blood 
royal ;  but  that  he  is  a  traitor  against  a  nation  that  depriveth  it 
of  God's  ordinances.  4.  That  some  shamefully  symbolize  in  Pela- 
gian errors  and  superstitious  ceremonies  with  the  church  of  Rome. 
Let  us  pray  such  to  their  conversion,  or  to  their  destruction,"  &c. 

Dr.  Cumber,  Vice-Chancellor,  gave  speedy  notice  hereof  to  Dr. 
Laud,  bishop  of  London,  though  he  (so  quick  his  University  intel- 
ligence) had  information  thereof  before.  Hereupon  he  was  brought 
into  the  High  Commission,  and  a  recantation  tendered  unto  him, 
which  he  refused  to  subscribe,  though  professing  his  sincere  sorrow 
and  penitency,  in  his  petitions  and  letters  to  the  bishop,  for  any 
oversights  and  unbeseeming  expressions  in  his  sermon.  Hereupon, 
he  was  sent  back  to  the  new  prison,  where  he  died.  If  he  was 
miserably  abused  therein  by  the  keepers,  (as  some  have  reported,) 
to  the  shortening  of  his  life,  ^<  He  that  maketh  inquisition  for 
blood,"  either  hath  [been],  or  will  be,  a  revenger  thereof. 

Benjamin  Lany,  Vice-Chancellor;  John  Lothian  and  Daniel 
Chaundeler,  Proctors  ;  George  Saunders,  Mayor,     a.d.  1632-33. 

Richard  Love,  Vice-Chancellor ;  Henry  Molle  and  Luke  Skip- 
pon,  Proctors ;  Robert  Twelves,  Mayor.     1639-34. 

27.  Orgcms  erected  in  Chapds. 
Now  began  the  University  to  be  much  beautified  in  buildings, 
every  College  either  casting  its  skin  with  the  snake,  or  renewing  its 
bill  with  the  eagle ;  having  their  courts,  or  at  leastwise  their  fronts 


Digiti 


zedbyLiOOgle 


18  CHARLks  1.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBBIDQE.  233 

and  gate-houses,  repaired  and  adorned.  But  tbe  greatest  alteration 
"ma  in  their  chapels,  most  of  them  being  graced  with  the  accession 
of  oigans.  And,  seeing  Music  is  one  of  the  liberal  arts,  how  could 
it  be  quarrelled  at  in  an  University,  if  they  ^*  sang  with  understand- 
ing"'both  of  the  matter  and  manner  thereof?  Yet  some  took 
great  distaste  thereat,  as  attendancy*  to  superstition. 


At  this  time  I  discontinued  my  living  in  the  University ;  and 
therefore  crave  leave  here  to  break  off  my  History,  finding  it  diffi* 
cult  to  attm  to  certain  intelligence.  However,  because  I  meet 
with  much  printed  matter  about  the  visitation  of  Cambridge  in  these 
troublesome  times,  (though  after  some  years^  interval,)  I  shall,  for 
a  conclusion,  adventure  to  give  posterity  an  unpartial  relation 
thereof  :— 

28—32.  CoUege-pUxte  sent  to  the  King.  The  Act  aggratatedy  and 
excused.  Three  Doctors  imprisoned  in  the  Tower,  and  the 
Vice-Chancellor  in  Ely-House. 

Richard  Houldsworth  being  Vice-Chancellor.    a.  d.  1641-42. 

August  31st.  The  Masters  and  Fellows  of  all  Colleges  send 
iheir  plate,  (or  money  in  lieu  thereof,)  to  the  king  to  York  ;  many 
wishing  that  every  ounce  thereof  were  a  pound  for  his  sake,  con- 
ceiving it  unfitting  that  they  should  have  superfluities  to  spare, 
whilst  their  sovereign  wanted  necessaries  to  spend. 

This  was  beheld  by  the  parliament  as  an  act  unjust  in  itself,  and 
dangerous  in  the  consequence  thereof ;  for  the  present  Masters  and 
Fellows  were  only  fiduciaries,  not  proprietaries^  of  the  plate,— to 
keep  and-use  it,  not  to  dispose  thereof.  Was  not  this  obliterating 
tbe  records  of  gentlemen^s  bounty,  who  had  conferred  those  costly 
utensils  on  the  Colleges  ?  Besides,  this  was  interpreted  a  foment- 
ing of  the  civil  war,  thereby  encouraging  and  enabling  the  king 
against  his  subjects. 

In  vain  did  the  Heads  plead  for  themselves,  that  they,  affrighted 
at  the  plundering  of  the  house  of  the  countess  of  Rivers,  at  Long- 
Melford,  (the  firstfiruits  of  rapine  in  our  age,)  did  suspect  the  like 
violence.  Plunderers  have  long  arms,  and  can  quickly  reach  out  of 
Suffolk  into  Cambridgeshire.  For  prevention  whereof,  they  thought 
good  to  secure  some  of  their  plate  in  a  safe  hand  ;  and  could  not 
find  a  fitter  than  his  majesty^s,  heir  to  his  ancestors,  the  founders 

*  It  is  difficult  to  divine  'whether  Fuller  emplo3^d  this  ^nrord  in  the  sense  of  "  attend- 
ance," or  whether  he  wikhed  it  to  convey  a  meaning  somewhat  allied  to  our  more  nsnal 
pluase  of  *^  having  a  tendency  to"  any  thing. — Edit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


234  HISTORY  OF  THB  .     A.©.  1642. 

pammonnt  of  all  Houses.  Besides,  though  the  clouds  look  black 
-with  a  louring  complexion,  yet  did  it  not  rain  war  downright  betwixt 
king  and  parliament,  it  being  some  days  before  the  erecting  of  his 
standard  at  Nottingham. 

Dr.  Beale,  Dr.  Martin,  and  Dr.  Stcme,  Masters  of  St.  John's, 
Queen's,  and  Jesus  Colleges,  are  carried  to  London,  and  imprisoned 
in  the  Tower,  for  their  activity  in  the  plate  business.  And  Cam- 
bridge is  made  the  seat  of  "  the  Committee  for  the  Eastern  Associa- 
tion,'' which  escaped  the  best  of  all  parts  in  this  civil  war,  the  smoke 
thereof  only  offending  those  counties,  whilst  the  fire  was  felt  in 
other  places. 

Richard  Houldsworth,  Vice-Chancellor.  Before  his  year  expired, 
he.  was  seized  on,  and  imprisoned,  first  in  Ely-House,  then  in  the 
Tower,  for  executing  his  majesty's  command  in  printing  at  Cam- 
bridge such  his  Deckurations  as  were  formerly  printed  at  York. 

33,  34.  The  Heads  deny  the  Parliammt  Money.     The  Death  of 

Dr.  Ward. 

March  30th.  The  Vice-Chancellor  and  Heads  of  Houses,  solemnly 
assembled  in  the  consistory,  were  demanded  to  contribute  to  the  par- 
liament, so  to  redeem  their  forwardness  in  supplying  the  king.  Which, 
performed  by  them,  would,  notwithstanding  their  former  crooked  car- 
riage in  the  cause,  bolster  them  upright  in  the  parliament's  esteem. 
But  they  persisted  in  the  negative,  ^'  that  such  contributing  was 
against  true  religion  and  a  good  conscience ;  ^  for  which  some  of 
them  were  afterwards  imprisoned  in  St.  John's  CoUejfe. 

Amongst  these  was  Dr.  Samuel  Ward,  Master  of  Sidney  Col- 
lege, and  Divinity  Professor,  Lady  Margaret's,  (or  "  the  king's " 
shall  I  say  ?)  in  the  University.  For,  though  Uie  former  by  his 
foundation,  he  may  seem  the  latter  by  his  resolution.  Yet  was  he 
a  Moses,  not  only  for  slowness  of  speech,  but,  otherwise,  meekness 
of  nature.  Indeed,  when  in  my  private  thoughts  I  have  beheld 
him  and  Dr.  Collins,  (disputable  whether  more  different  or  more 
eminent  in  their  endowments,)  I  could  not  but  remember  the  run- 
ning of  Peter  and  John  to  the  place  where  Christ  was  buried.  In 
which  race  John  came  first,  as  the  youngest  and  swiftest;  but 
Peter  first  entered  into  the  grave.  Dr.  Collins  had  much  the  speed 
of  him  in  quickness  of  parts  ;  but  let  me  say,  (nor  doth  the  relation 
of  a  pupil  misguide  me,)  the  other  pierced  the  deeper  into  under- 
ground and  profound  points  of  divinity.  Now,  as  high  winds  bring 
some  men  the  sooner  into  sleep,  so  I  conceive  the  storms  and  tem- 
pests of  these  distracted  times  invited  this  good  old  roan  the  sooner 
to  his  long  rest,  where  we  fairly  leave  him,  and  quietly  draw  the 
curtains  about  him. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


isoAaimu  mnvnsmr  OF  cAMBBiiKii.  835 

dita€mt€ik  amy  mek  OtUL 

Nov  Mffomthei  tlie  gencnl  doom  of  **  nudigiiant  memben^  (ao 
tenned)  in  tbe  UniYosity ;  the  etri  of  Manchester,  with  his  two 
chaidainsy  Mr.  Ash  and  Mr.  Good,  coining  thither  to  efllbct  a 
lefoimation.  In  preparation  wherennto,  I  read  how  an  oath  of  dia- 
coToy*  was  tendered  to  many,  and  nniveisally  refused,  ** as  against 
all  law  and  conscience,  as  bebg  thereby  made  to  accuse  their  neaiw 
est  and  dearest  fiiends,  bene&ctors.  Tutors,  and  Masters,  and 
betray  the  memben  and  acts  of  their  several  Societies,  c<mtiary  to 
their  peaceable  statutes,  namely,  Nbm  retelabii  aUqwod  $0erMmm 
CoBeffiiy  nee  wudum  mU  dawmmm  infirm  euilUfei  Sooiamm*  Where- 
upon this  oath  was  genenJIy  denied. 

To  be  sati8fie4  in  the  truth  hereof,  I  wrote  to  Mr.  Ash,  (whose 
&ce  I  had  never  seen,)  requesting  him  to  inform  me,— audi  pro- 
ceedings seeming  yeiy  stiange  to  my  appiehension.  But  hear  his 
answer:— 

^'  TsuLf,  Sir,  I  am  so  great  a  stranger  to  that  Oath  o/J)i$eo9eiy 
which  you  mention,  that  I  cannot  call  to  mind  the  moving  of  any 
such  matter,  by  the  lord  of  Manchester^  or  any  who  attended  him. 
And  as  for  myself,  having  beeoi  a  suSerer  upon  the  dislike  of  the 
oath  eas  officioy  I  have,  all  along  my  life,  been  very  tender  in  appear- 
ing as  an  insUument  in  any  such  matter.  Sir,  I  may  be  under 
mistakes  through  foigetfulness,  but  I  hope  there  is  a  principle 
^thin  me  which  will  not  suffer  me  to  suggest  an  untruth  willingly, 

"  Your  loving  friendy 

''London^  Jidy  KHh,  1654.  Simon  Ash."" 

Here  we  see  what  he  writes,  and  what  others  print.  If  there 
was  any  such  oath,  it  seems  it  had  the  happiness  of  a  short  part ; 
and,  sensible  of  its  own  ill-acting  therein,  it  sneaked  down  so 
quickly  into  the  tiring-house,  that  it  hopes  not  to  be  remembered 
ever  to  have  come  upon  the  stage.  But  if  Mr.  Ash  was  active 
herein,  I  see  stripes  are  not  so  soon  forgotten  by  those  that  bear 
them,  as  by  those  that  lay  them  on.  For  my  own  part,  I  am  satis- 
fied no  such  oath  was  tendered  by  him^  charitably  believing,  that  he 
would  not  cross  his  own  doctrine,  when,  preaching  to  the  parlia- 
ment, anno  1640,  on  Psalm  ix.  9  :  "  The  Lord  is  a  refuge  for  the 
oppressed,'*'  he  complained  of  the  strictness  of  University-oaths.f 

*  Querela  CtmtoMgieneiSy  page  20.  t  See  ihitf  iwhole  matter  fully  dinoosied 

in  « tlie  Appeal  of  Injured  Innocence/'  Book  xi.  part  2.  paragraph  323. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


236  HISTORY  OF  THE  a. D.  1643; 

37»  38,  T%e  Covenant  generally  tendered^  and  rejmed. 

Not  long  after,  warning  was  given,  that  all  Students  should  come 
in  wilhin  twelve  days,  and  take  the  Covenant.*  This  seemed  a  strange 
summons ;  and  the  two  chaplains  (to  whom  the  earl  of  Manchester, 
most  mild  in  himself,  chiefly  remitted  the  managing  of  these  matters) 
were  challenged  for  injultice  herein.  For,  though  divines,  they 
were  presumed  to  have  so  much  of  civil  law,  yea,  of  the  law  of 
nature,  as  to  know,  Nemo  tenetv/r  ad  impossibilia^  "  No  man  is 
tied  to  impossibilities  ;  ^  whereas  many  Scholars,  being  absent  more 
scores  of  miles  than  they  had  days  allowed  them,  (besides  the 
danger  of  armies  interposed,)  could  not,  if  receiving  warning,  repaij? 
at  the  time  appointed.  But  because  many  of  them  were  suspected 
to  be  in  the  king's  army,  twelve  days  were  conceived  for  them  a^ 
much  as  twelve  months  ;"|-  no  time  being  too  short  for  those  who 
were  willing,  and  none  long  enough  for  such  who  were  unwilling,  to 
take  the  Covenant.  * 

This  Covenant,  being  oflfered,  was  generally  refused ;  whereupon 
the  recusants  were  ordered,  without  any  delay,  to  pack  out  of  the 
University  three  days  after  their  ejection. 

39 — 42.  Offence  taken  at  Bishop  Brownrigg's  Sermon.  Ejectment 
of  Masters^  Fellows^  and  Scholars  from  Queen's  GoUege. 
What  became  of  so  numy  ejected  Fellows.  The  ChaplaimT 
Plea  for  themsehes. 

Dr.  Brownrigg,  bishop  of  Exeter,  and  Master  of  Catherine  Hall, 
was  now  Vice-Chancellor  of  Cambridge,  succeeding  Dr.  Holdsworth, 
as  I  take  it;  foreknow,  reader,  I  begin  now  to  be  incurious  in  chrono- 
logy;  not  so  much  because  weary  with  a  long  observing  thereof,  as 
because,  such  the  noise  of  the  present  disturbance,  I  cannot  hear  what 
the  clock  of  time  doth  strike.  This  sure  I  am,  that  the  Vice- 
Chancellor,  though  eminent  for  his  piety,  gravity,  and  learning, 
could  so  little  prevail  for  others,  (endeavouring  all  the  good  offices 
he  could,)  that  the  next  year  he  was  banished  the  University,  for 
preaching  the  inauguration-sermon  of  the  king,  wherein  many 
passages  were  distasted  by  the  parliament-party.  And  now  they 
vigorously  proceeded,  having  learned  the  maxim  in  Hippocrates,  that 
licet  in  extremis  ad  lipothymiam  iDactiare^  "  In  desperate  cures,  one 
may  let  blood,  even  till  the  patient  swoons  : "  on  confidence,  that 
though  the  soul  dissembleth  a  departure,  yet  it  will  stay  still  in  the 
body,  especially  when  finding  it  amended  in  the  temper  thereof. 
And,  it  seems,  the  blood  appeared  so  corrupt  to  these  physicians, 

•  Querela  Cantabrigiensisy  page  —  f  Mr.  Ash  informed  me,  that,  afterward, 

a  longer  time  was  given  them. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


19  CHABLIS  I.  UNIVSRSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  237 

ibat  80  great  a  quantity  was  taken  away,  some  College  lay,  as  it 
were,  languishing  for  the  loss  thereof. 

In  Queen'*s  College  there  was  made  a  thorough  reformation,  neither 
Master,  Fellow,  nor  Scholar  being  left  of  the  Foundation ;  so  that, 
according  to  the  laws  of  the  admiralty,  it  might  seem  a  true  wreck, 
and  forfeited,  in  this  land-tempest,  for  lack  of  a  live  thing  therein, 
to  preserve  the  propriety  thereof.  However,  some  conceived  this  a 
great  severity,  contrary  to  the  eternal  moral  of  the  Jewish  law, 
provided  against  the  depopulation  of  birds^  nests,  that  the  old  and 
young  ones  should  be  destroyed  together.  But,  to  prevent  a 
vacuity,  (the  detestation  of  nature,)  a  new  plantation  was  soon 
substituted  in  their  room,  who,  short  of  the  former  in  learning  and 
abilities,  went  beyond  them  in  good  affections  to  the  parliament. 

However,  on  U^e  account  of  humanity,  some  pity  may  seem  due 
to  such  Fellows,  outed  house  and  home,  merely  for  refusing  the 
Covenant,  being  otherwise  well-deserving,  in  the  judgments  of  those 
Fho  ejected  them.  And  it  is  strange  to  conceive  how  many  of 
tbem  got  any  subsistence  or  livelihood  to  maintain  themselves. 
This  mindeth  me  of  the  occasion  of  the  Greek  proverb  : — * 
*H  TiivfiKtv  1}  SiSacrxffi  ypafAfiaraf  *^  He  is  either  dead,  or  teacheth 
school.^  For  when  Nidas,  the  general  of  Athens,  (having  many 
scholars  in  his  army,)  had  fought  unfortunately  against  the  Sici- 
lians, and  when  such  few  as  returned  home  were  interrogated,  what 
became  of  their  companions,  this  was  all  they  could  return,  *^  They 
were  either  dead,  or  taught  school ;''  a  poor  and  woful  employ- 
ment, it  seems,  in  those  days,  as  weighed  in  the  other  scale 
against  death,^ — so  indifferent  was  the  odds  betwixt  them.  The 
same  we  conceive  the  hard  hap  of  such  Fellows  that  survived  the 
grief  of  their  ejection.  Many  betook  themselves  to  the  painful 
profession  of  schoolmaster ;  no  calling  which  is  honest  being  dis- 
graceful, especially  to  such  who,  for  their  conscience^  sake,  have 
deserted  a  better  condition. 

I  know  what  the  chaplains  of  the  earl  have  pleaded,  in  excuse  of 
their  rigorous  proceedings  against  the  Scholars  at  this  time ; 
namely,  *' That  authority  was  much  exasperated  by  Academics 
deserting  their  places,  and  refusing,  upon  summons  given,  to  come 
in  with  petitions  for  favour  in  relation  to  such  particulars  wherein 
they  were  dissatisfied ;  that,  as  if  the  times  were  their  tea;t^  what- 
ever the  subject  of  their  sermons,  they  were  invective  against  the 
present  authority;  that  Querela  Cantabriffierms  is  but  Querela^ 
relating  all  things  to  the  worst,  and  plaints  are  no  proofs ;  that,  for 
their  own  parts,  they  only  answered  the  spur,  and^  scarcely  that, 
being  quickened  on  both  sides,  both  from  above  and  beneath,  and 

*  Zenodotos  the  author  thereof. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1238 


HISTORt  OP  THE 


A.D.  1643« 


daily  complained  of,  that  their  oveivremissness  would  obstruct 
refonnation,  both  in  church  and  UniverBity/^  How  &r  this  will 
prevail  on  the  belief  of  posterity,  is  unto  me  unknown. 

43.  Great  Alteration  in  Heads  of  Homes. 

Some  perchance  may  be  so  curious  hereafter  to  know  what 
removals  and  substitutions  were  made  at  this  time,  amongst  the 
Heads  of  Houses.  Now,  although  a  man  may  hold  a  candle  to 
lighten  posterity  so  near  as  to  bum  his  own  fingers  therewith,  I  will 
run  the  hazard,  rather  than  be  wanting  to  any  reasonable  desire. 


MASTERS    PUT   OUT. 


COLLEGES. 


\%  Dr.  John  Cosins,  dean     Peter  House, 
of     Peterborough, 
and  prebendary  of 
Durham. 

2.  Dr.   Thomas    Pask,     Clare  Hall. 

archdeacon  of  Lon- 
don. 

3.  Dr.  Benjamin  Laney,     Pembroke  HalL 

dean  of  Rochester. 


4.  Dr.  Thomas   Badg-    Caius  College. 

croft. 

5.  Dr.  Samuel  Collins,     King's  College. 

the  King's  Profess- 
or. 

6.  Dr.  Edward  Martin,     Queen's  College. 

chaplain    to    arch- 
bishop Laud. 

7.  Ralph    Brownriggc,     Catherine  Hall. 

bishop  of  Esceter. 


8.  Dr.  Richard  Sterne, 
chaplain  to  arch- 
bishop Laud. 


Jesus  College. 


MASTERS    PUT    IN. 

Lazarus  Seaman,  mi- 
nister in  London, 
bred  in  Emmanuel 
College,  since  D.D. 
Ralph  Cudwortb,  Fel- 
low of  Emmanuel 
College,  since  D  .D. 

Richard  Vines,  bred 
in  Magdalen  Col- 
lege, afterward  out* 
ed  for  refusing  the 
Engagement. 

William  Dell,  admit- 
ted first  into  Em- 
manuel College. 

Benjamin  Whichcot, 
Fellow  of  Emma* 
nuel  College,  since 
D.D. 

Herbert  Palmer,  for- 
merly Fellow  of 
the  same  College. 

William  Spurstow, 
Fellow,  and  outed 
for  refusing  the 
Engagement. 

Timothy  [Thomas] 
Young,  bred  in 
Scotland,  outed  for 
refusing  the  En- 
gagement. 


Digitized  by 


L^oogle 


19  CHiftLn  I. 


UNIVEBSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE. 


239 


HA8TEB8   PffT   OUT 

9.  Dr.  William  Beale, 
chaplain  to  the  king. 


10.  Dr.  Thomas  Camber, 

dean  of  Carlisle. 

11.  Dr.  Richard  Holds- 

worth,  archdeacon 
of  Huntingdon. 

12.  Dr.    Samuel    Ward 

(in  effect  but  a 
prisoner)  died  a 
natural  death. 


COLLEGES. 

St.  John's  Coll. 


Trinity  College. 


Emmanuel  Coll. 


Sidney  College. 


MA8TEB8   FUT   IK. 

John  ArrowsmiUi, 
Fellow  of  Cathe- 
rine  Hall,  since 
D.D. 

Thomas  Hill,  Fellow 
of  Emmanuel  Col« 
lege,  since  D.D. 

Anthony  Tuckney, 
formerly  Fellow, 
since  D.D. 

Richard  Minshull, 
Fellow,  since  D.D. 
chosen  by  the  Soci- 
ety into  the  void 
place. 


Four  Masters,  by  the  especial  favours  of  their  friends,  and  their 
own  wary  compliance,  continued  in  their  places;  namely,  Dr. 
Thomas  Bainbrigg;  [Master  of  CbrisCs  College;]  and  Dr.  Thomas 
Eden,  of  Trinity  Hall ;  but  died  soon  after ;  Dr.  Richard  Love, 
Master  of  BeneH  College,  afterwards  Margaret  Professor ;  and  Dr. 
Edward  Rainbow,  of  Magdalen  College,  who  not  long  after  lost  his 
Mastership,  for  the  refusal  of  the  Engagement. 

44,  45.  The  sad  Effects  of  War.      Taumsmen  tax  Schola/rs. 

Pass  we  now  from  the  'Axa^jjjut/a  l/x\tu;^o?,  "the  living,**  con- 
sisting of  Students,  to  the  &Wxpi^  ^^  the  dead  University,**  %h 
composed  of  lands,  libraries,  and  buildings ;  where  we  meet  with 
many  moans  in  this  kind :  How  soldiers  were  now  quartered  in 
their  Colleges ;  chapels  abused ;  Common-prayer  books,  yet  legally 
in  force,  torn  in  St.  Mary*s ;  their  bridges  broken  down ;  mate« 
rials  for  building  Colleges  taken  away ;  Jesus-College  grove  (no 
idolatrous  one)  cut  down  to  the  ground ;  ancient  coins  of  St.  John*s 
College  ts^en  away,  valued  at  twenty-two  pounds,  according  to 
weight,  though  an  hundred  times  worth  more  than  they  were  worth, 
wherein  every  piece  waa  a  volume,  and  all  together  a  library  of 
Roman  antiquitiea. 

But  chiefly  it  vexed  them,  that  their  lands,  hitherto  exempted 
fipm  payments,  and,  like  his  &ther*s  house  who  should  conquer 
Goliath,  free  in  Israel,  (1  Sam.  xvii.  25,)  were  now  subjected  to 
taxes,  wherein  the  raters  were  heavier  than  the  rates,  being  taxed  by 
the  townsmen.  And  how  '^  odious  is  a  handmaid  that  is  heir  to 
her  mistress  ;**  (Prov.  xxx.  23 ;)  but  much  more  when  mistress  of 


Digiti 


zedbyLiOOgle 


240  HISTORY  OF  THB  .  a.p.  1643. 

her  mistress,  as  here  the  town,  in  some  sort,  was  over  the  Univer- 
sity, where  such  who  set  the  lowest  price  on  learning  put  the 
highest  valuation  on  the  Professors  thereof. 

46,  47.  Moderate  MerCa  Judgment.    St.  AndrettPs  Church 
r^Hiired. 

-  However,  there  are  University-men,  (not  altogether  so  passionate 
for,  but  every  whit  as  affectionate  to,  their  mother,)  who,  as  they 
Qondole  Cambridge  for  faring  so  ill,  congratulate  her  also  for  faring 
Xio  worse,  in  such  tumultuous  times.  When  all  the  body  is 
distempered,  with  what  hope  can  either  eye  promise  ease  unto 
itself.?  Was  their  glass  broken  ?  It  was  well  their  windows  were 
left.  Was  the  floor  of  some  of  their  chapels  digged  up  ?  Well 
that  the  walls  of  them  were  not  digged  down.  Were  one  or  two  of 
their  bridges  broken?  It  was  well  that  any  was  spared  from 
whence  Cam-bridge  might  still  retain  her  denomination. 

Now,  that  my  sun  may  not  set  in  a  cloud,  amidst  many  bemoan- 
ings  of  Cambridge,  I  must  rejoice,  that  the  ruins  of  one  ancient 
church,  St.  Andrew's  by  name,  are  repaired  by  the  joint  benefac- 
tion of  many,  and  particularly  of  Richard  Rose,  esq.  late  Mayor  of 
Cambridge,  and  sheriff  of  Cambridgeshire.  Let  him  who  hath  the 
building  of  God's  house  (whilst  living)  for  his  monument,  have  the 
praise  of  posterity  for  his  never-dying  epitaph. 

48,  49.  The  Author'' s  just  Apology.    A  witty  homonymous   . 
Answer.    A  Prayer. 

Here  some  may  expect,  according  to  my  promise,  an  "  History 
of  the  University  of  Oxford :  '^  but,  finding  my  informations  thence 
(assisted  with  my  own  industry)  to  fall  short  of  filling  a  just 
treatise,  I  thought  fit  to  insert  their  Colleges  in  the  body  of  my 
History,  according  to  the  dates  of  Uieir  respective  foundations,  sub- 
mitting the  censure  of  my  fair  dealing  therein  to  the  ingenuous  in 
that  famous  University. 

•  To  draw  to  conclusion :  lately  a  College  in  Cambridge,  much 
beautified  with  additional  buildings,  sent  a  messenger  to  a  Doctor, 
no  less  ingenious  than  bountiful,  who  had  been  a  great,  and  pro- 
mised to  be  a  greater,  benefactor  unto  them,  requesting  him  to 
remember  them,  "or  else  their  College  must  even  8t<md  stilly^ 
meaning  they  must  desist  firom  going  farther  in  their  intended 
fabric.  To  whom  the  Doctor  answered,  "  May  your  College,  and  all 
the  Colleges  in  both  Universities,  stand  still  ! ''  In  the  chari* 
table  meaning  whereof  all  good  men  will  concur,  and  join  with  us  in 
our  following  devotions  : — 


Digitized  by 


Google 


19cffARLB8i.  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  2-U 

A    PRAYER. 

0  God  !  who,  in  the  creating  of  the  lower  world,  didst  first 
make  light,*  (confusedly  diffused,  as  yet,  through  the  imperfect 
uniTCTse,)  and  afterwards  didst  collect  the  same  into  two  great 
liglit8,f  to  illuminate  all  creatures  therein :  O  Lord !  who  art  a 
Ood  of  knowledge,  and  dost  lighten  every  man  that  cometh  into 
the  world  :  X  O  Lord !  who  in  our  nation  hast  moved  the  hearts  of 
founders  and  bene&ctors  to  erect  and  endow  two  fiunous  lumina- 
ries of  foaming  and  religion,  bless  them  with  the  assistance  of  thy 
Holy  Spirit.  Let  neither  of  them  contest  (as  once  thy  disciples 
on  earth,)  which  should  be  the  greatest,§  but  both  contend  which 
hall  approve  themselves  the  best  in  thy  presence. 

0,  though  for  their  sins  thou  permittest  them  to  be  eclipsed,  for 
thy  mercy  do  not  suffer  them  to  be  extinguished. 

And  as  thou  didst  appoint  those  two  great  lights  in  the  firma* 
ment  to  last  till  thy  servants  shaU  have  no  need  of  the  sun  nor  o^ 
the  moon  to  shine  therein,  for  thy  glory  doth  lighten  them  :  ||  so 
grant  these  old  lights  may  continue  till  all  acquired  and  infused 
knowledge  be  swallowed  up  with  the  vision  and  fruition  of  thy 
blessed-making  majesty.    Amen. 

END  OF  THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE. 


ADDITIONAL  NOTE  BY  THE  EDITOR. 

Many  persons  who  are  accustomed  to  consider  Cambridge  as  having 
been  pre-eminently  a  mathematical  University  ab  initio^  will  be  sur- 
prised to  find  exceedingly  slight  allusions  to  this  subject  in  Fuller's 
'^History.*  William  Oughtred,  of  King's  College,  is  the  only  one 
whom  he  has  particularly  distinguished,  among  the  "  many  eminent 
persons  still  surviving,  prince  of  the  mathematicians  of  our  age ; " 
while  a  man  of  far  greater  genius  and  more  extensive  acquirements, 
who  was  undoubtedly  the  most  eminent  mathematician  of  those  early 
days^  and  one  to  whom  mathematical  science  in  some  of  its  highest 
departments  is  more  deeply  indebted  than  many  conceited  modems  are 
willing  to  allow,  is  dismissed  with  this  very  brief  and  indistinct  notice, 
under  "  the  learned  writers  "  of  Emmanuel  College, — "  John  Wallis  is 
now  Geometry-Professor  in  Oxford."  Samuel  Foster,  of  the  same 
College^  is  also  recorded  as  having  been  a  learned  writer  '^  of  Mathe- 
matics." The  reader  has  now  before  him  the  fullest  of  our  Fuller's 
enumeration  of  the  mathematical  talent  of  the  University ;  and  he  will 

'  Qen.  i.  3.  t  Verge  16.  t  John  i.  9.  «  Luke  xxii.  24.         ||  Rev.  xxi.  23. 

K 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


242  HISTORY  OF  THE 

thence  correctly  conclude,  that  this  was  a  department  of  learning  in 
which  Cambridge  was  then  accounted  to  have  no  peculiar  excellence : 
otherwise  our  author,  in  his  pardonable  zeal,  would  have  claimed  for 
his  Alma  Muter  supreme  mathematical  honours.     Yet  if  any  one  will 
cast  but  a  cursory  glance  over  the  names  appended  to  the  extremely 
varied  productions  in  the  Muses  CantabrigienseSy  on  some  of  the  great 
public  occasions  soon  after  the  Restoration,  (such  as  the  royal  mar- 
riage, the  death  of  Henrietta  Maria,  the  queen-mother,)  will  be  amazed 
at  the  mass  of  mathematical  talent  which  had  been  in  a  course  of  germi- 
nation during  the  Interregnum.   Speculation  and  theorizing  in  ^peligion, 
pbilosophy,  and  politics  had  then  attained  their  utmoist  elevation ;  and 
it  is  a  re^iarkable  fact,  that,  with  the  exception  of  those  who  had  been 
preserved  in  the  better  and  higher  principles  in  which  they  had  been 
carefully  educated,  all  the  famous  persons  that  composed  the  original 
nucleus  from  which  the  Royal  Society  had  its  commencement,  and  all 
those  who  in  this  University  exclusively  were  distinguished  by  the 
honourable  appellative  of  "  latitude-men,"  had  been  generally  trained 
up  as  strict  predestinarians  in  religion,  republicans  in  politics,  and  very 
little  better  than  admirers  of  Paracelsus,  or  of  the  mystical  Rosicru- 
cians,  in  philosophy.     But  that  great  revolution  in  England  which  is 
commonly  viewed  only  in  its  political  aspect  and  bearing,  was   as 
mighty  and  wonderful  in  its  religious  and  philosophical  issues.     The 
discussions  connected  with  every  subject  of  human  knowledge  which 
very  naturally  arose  at  such  an  exciting  period,  called  into  healthful 
exercise  the  profound  and  heavenly-gifted  powers  of  many,  with  whom 
the  noblest  Acuities  would,  in  all  human  probability,  under  ordinary 
circumstances,  have  lain  dormant  and  neglected.     These  great  men 
entered  heartily  into  the  various  departments  of  the  inductive  system 
of  Bacon's  philosophy,  and  introduced  its  principles  into  the  modifica- 
tion which  was  then  formed  of  their  religious  and  political  opinions 
and  practice.     Whatsoever,  therefore,  did  not  recommend  itself  at 
ance  to  their  understanding  through  the  tests  of  experiment,  ceased  to 
form  any  part  of  their  political,  philosophical,  or  religious  creed.    The 
blessed  results  are  to  be  traced  in  the  salutary  checks  and  provisions 
which    have  progressively  been  admitted   into  the  admirable  con- 
stitution under  which  it  is  our  privilege  to  live,  and  in  those  amazing 
improvements  and  discoveries,  in  every  branch  of  human  knowledge, 
which  we. have  been  permitted  to  behold.     Some  temporary  injury  was 
cert€dnly  inflicted  on  their  religious  principles  by  this  arrangement  ; 
but  it  was  in  its  nature  such  as  was  to  be  expected  by  every  sound 
philosopher  who  has   studied   that  propensity  which  inheres  in  the 
human  mind  toward  strong  moral  re-action,  on  the  accession  of  those 
new  and  overpowering  views  and  feelings  which  it  concludes  to  be 
true  and  correct.     After  the  many  years  in  which  an  antinomian  fiedth. 
had  been  rampant  among  all  classes  of  those  professors  of  Christianity 
who  had  adopted  the  dogmas  of  rigid  predestination,  it  is  not  sur- 
prising that  the  manly  practical  writers  who  succeeded  them,  in. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  243 

endearouring  to  counteract  what  was  deemed  to  be  a  pemicions  error 
in  the  doctrine  and  practice  of  their  predecessors,  should  exclude  from 
their  clever  and  powerful  treatises  nearly  all  mention  of  faith,  except 
in  its  lowest  acceptation  of  mere  historical  belief.  But  that  infinitely 
Wise  and  Benignant  Being,  who  kindly  watches  over  the  rising 
interests  of  his  militant  church,  proyided  a  remedy  in  due  season ; 
and,  by  wonderful  means  of  his  own  derising,  brought  about  that 
healthy  state  of  religion  which  marks  the  present  age,  exhibiting 
generaJly  a  happy  consistency  between  Christian  fidth  and  practice, 
between  official  doctrine  and  personal  example. 

Such  was  the  early  cradling  or  incunabula  of  the  Mathematics  at 
Cambridge  ;  and,  within  three  years  after  the  Restoration  of  monar- 
chy, the  want  of  some  adequate  prorision  for  the  public  encouragement 
of  this  interesting  and  delightfully-multifarious  study  baring  been 
felt  and  regretted,  the  truly  honourable  Henry  Lucas,  Member  of 
Parliament  for  the  Unirersity,  founded  and  endowed  that  noble 
Professorship  of  Mathematics,  which  will  transmit  his  undying  name 
to  the  latest  ages,  and  the  chair  of  which  has  been  filled  by  men  of 
transcendent  talents,  from  Barrow  and  Newton  its  earliest  occupants, 
to  Airy  and  Biabbage  their  gifted  and  more  recent  successors. 

But  eyery  one  who  is  observant  of  the  progress  which  any  particular 
brandi  of  ennobling  study  has  made  in  our  great  nurseries  of  learning, 
eyen  after  it  has  met  with  as  ready  and  cordial  a  reception  as  in  the 
present  instance,  must  know  that  still  the  advances  of  a  fiivourite 
science  maj  be  correctly  designated  as  being  ^'slow  and  gradual,'* 
before  it  can  obtain  the  general  regard  due  to  its  increasing  claims,  or 
secure  for  itself  permanent  attention.  About  half  a  century  elapsed, 
from  the  founding  of  the  Mathematical  Professorship,  before  those 
able  men  ynih  whom  rested  the  choice  of  the  best  course  of  learning 
to  be  pursued,  were  induced  to  adopt  the  Mathematics  for  a  leading 
academical  study,  and  one  of  the  most  useful  instruments  which  they 
could  employ  in  forming  thoughtful  habitudes  and  shining  characters. 
This  great  and  gradual  change,  and  the  effects  which  it  soon  produced, 
are  well  described  in  the  words  of  one  of  its  original  promoters,  Dr. 
Edmund  Law,  afterwards  lord  bishop  of  Carlisle,  in  the  preface  to  his 
translation  of  archbishop  King's  ^'  Essay  on  the  Origin  of  Evil :" — 

"  But,  enough  of  these  trifling  particulars,  which  have  detained  me 
from  a  more  important  point  intended  for  this  place,  namely,  survey- 
ing the  too  general  turn  of  our  University  education.  Having,  there- 
fore, about  the  time  above-mentioned,  (17^3,)  remarked  some  abuses 
in  the  training  up  of  our  youth,  by  beginmng  it  with  inculcating  the 
dnll,  crabbed  system  of  Aristotle's  Logic,  and  at  a  time  when  they  were 
ieast  capable  of  applying  that  to  any  valuable  purpose ;  by  persisting 
to  retail  such  an  idle  system,  even  after  it  was  grown  obsolete,  and  not 
rather  laying  some  solid  foundation  in  natural  philosophy,  with  its 
nvodem  improTements,  or  *  natural  law,'  as  the  whole  doctrine  of  morals 
a  now  termed  ;  which  would  be  of  constant  use  to  these  young  dis« 

»  2 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


244      '  HISTORY  OF  THE 

ciples,  in  what  way  of  life  soever  they  might  afterwards  be  engaged, 
and  likewise  help  to  settle  in  them  right  notions  of  religion ;  which 
would,  above  all  things,  tend  to  make  them  more  sober-minded,  and, 
consequently,  more  submissive  to  their  superiors  here,  as  well  as  more 
happy  in  themselves  for  ever  hereafter.     Reflecting  on  these  absurdi- 
ties which  still  prevailed  in  our  public  forms  of  education,  some  of  my 
friends  were  induced  to  seek  a  remedy,  by  freeing  their  pupils  from  all 
that  pedantic  jargon,  and  introducing  some  better  means  to  engage 
their  attention,  and  accustom  them  to  a  close,  regular  way  of  thinking, 
and  thereby  prosecuting  their  future  studies  with  greater  accuracy  and 
precision :  to  this  end  they  called  in  the  assistance  of  the  Mathematics, 
little  then  imagining,  that  in  a  short  time  these  same  assistants,  these 
comparatively  meagre  instruments,  should,  like  Pharaoh's  lean  kine,  eat 
up  all  that  was  good  and  well  &voured  in  the  sciences  themselves ;  that 
they  should  usurp  the  place  of  those  very  sciences  to  which  they  were 
originally  designed  to  be  subservient,  and  for  which  station  they  were 
sufficiently  qualified.     But  such  became  the  common  infatuation,  that 
these  helps  for  conducting  an  inquiry  through  the  whole  Cyclopaedia, 
instead  of  continuing  to  perform  such  useful  offices,  were,  by  the  mere 
force  of  ^hion,  set  up  for  a  capital  branch  of  it,  and  the  best  part  of 
our  scholars'  time  spent  in  speculating  on  these  same  instruments;  which 
would,  in  any  other  case,  appear  perhaps  to  be  somewhat  preposterous. 
However,  these  favourite  speculations  did  not  at  first  so  far.  engross  all 
the  thoughts  of  our  young  students,  as  not  to  admit  some  points  of  a 
moral  and  metaphysical  kind  to  accompany  them;  which  last  held 
their  ground  for  above  twenty  years;  and,  together  with  Mr.  Locke's 
Essay,  Dr.  Clarke  went  hand  in  hand  through  our  public  schools  and 
lectures,  though  they  were  built  on  principles  directly  opposite  to  each 
other ;  the  latter  of  them  founding  all  our  moral  knowledge  on  certain 
innate  ^instincts,'  or  absolute  'fitnesses,'  however  inconsistent  tliese 
two  terms  may  appear,  the  former  being  wholly  calculated  to  remove 
them :  till,  at  length,  certain  flaws  being  discovered  in  the  Doctor's 
celebrated  argument,  a  priori,  (on  the  truth  of  which  many  niinate 
philosophers  had  wholly  pinned,  their  faith,)  his  doctrine  fell  into  dis- 
repute, and  was  generally  given  up;  but  its  downfall,  at  the   same 
time,  sunk  the  credit  of  that  whole  science^  as  to  the  certainty  of  its 
principles,  which  thereby  received  so  great  a  shock  as  is  hardly  yet 
recovered.     This  threw  us  back  into  a  more  eager  attachment  than 
ever  to  its  rival,  the  Mathematics,  which  grew  from  henceforth  into  a 
most  important  and  most  laborious  study,  being  confined  chiefly  to  the 
deepest  and  most  difficult  parts  of  them,  and  taking  up  tiie  student's 
whole  time  and  pains,  so  as  to  become  incompatible  with  any   other 
much  more  necessary  studies,  as  will  appear  below.     And  here  one 
cannot  avoid  stopping  to  lament  the  notorious  weakness  of  the  liuman 
mind ;  which,  instead  of  exerting  its  own  native  powers  of  examining 
and  judging  in  points  of  feith,  is  ever  apt  to  shelter  itself  under  some 
sorry  system  of  opinions,  accidentally  thrown  in  its  way ;  and  through 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDOB.  245 

mere  indolence,  or  perhaps  dread  of  that  odium  theologicum  which  too 
often  attends  on  each  attempt  toward  any  improTement,  or  what  is 
called '  innoyation,'  (though  it  be  no  more  in  reality  than  removing 
those  innovations  made  by  time,  the  greatest  of  all  innovators,  according 
to  Lord  Bacon,)  sits  down  contented  with  its  ancient  state  of  igno- 
rance and  blind  credulity,  willing  to  connive  at  all  those  gross  and 
glaring  absurdities  that  have  long  beset  it,  and  been  suffered  to  con- 
tinue in  80  many  learned  and  religious  societies.    But  it  is  hoped,  that 
most  of  these  are  already  seen  through,  and  will  shortly  be  discarded 
hj  the  laadable  endeavours  of  the  University  of  Cambridge  in  particu- 
lar ;  which  is  labouring  to  reform  such  abuses,  and  restore  its  credit  to 
that  first  degree  in  arts,  and  the  exercise  preparatory  to  it,  which  was 
once  the  peculiar  glory  of  this  place ;  and  whereupon  not  only  the 
academical  character  of  each  candidate,  but  likewise  his  success  in  life, 
does  still  Tery  much  depend ;  well  aware  that  this  long-desired  piece 
of  reformation  can  never  be  secured  effectually,  but  by  a  careful  and 
impartial  distribution  of  those  honours  which  usually  attend  the  said 
promotion,-*a  prospect  whereof  is  found  to  be  the  great  object  of 
ambition  to  many  of  these  young  men  from  the  very  time  of  their 
admission  into  College :  to  this  they  often  sacrifice  their  whole  stock 
of  strength  and  spirits,  and  so  entirely  devote  most  of  their  first  four 
years  to  what  is  (»lled  taking  a  good  degree^  as  to  be  hardly  good  for 
any  thing  else,  least  of  aU  for  a  proper  discharge  of  that  important 
duty  to  which  the  greatest  part  of  them  were  originally  destined,  and 
^hich  ought  to  be  the  chief  business  of  their  future  lives;  but  to 
which,  alas  !  they  have  hitherto  been  utter  strangers.    A  sad  truth  ! 
of  which  we  are  made  very  sensible  in  the  mortifying  office  of  examin- 
ing such  persons  for  holy  orders." 

All  who  are  conversant  with  the  ecclesiastical  history  of  those  times 
will  understand  the  meaning  of  the  good  bishop,  when  he  deplores 
^'  the  notorious  weakness  of  the  human  mind,  which,  instead  of  exert- 
ing its  own  native  powers  of  examining  and  judging  in  points  of  faith, 
is  ever  apt  to  shelter  itself  under  some  sorry  S3rstem  of  opinions  acci- 
dentally thrown  in  its  way,"  &c. ;  and  the  vast  prevalence  of  Arian 
darkness  among  his  personal  friends,  from  Carlisle  to  Richmond  and 
Catterick,  leaving  scarcely  one  of  the  intervening  places  unvisited,  will 
explain  the  source  of  the  bishop's  dissatisfaction.  The  quotation  is 
valuable  on  another  account :  It  serves  to  show,  by  implication  at  least, 
that  the  much- traduced  Mathematics  are  not,  necessarily  and  per  #e, 
inimical  to  religion;  on  the  contrary,  an  inference  feirly  deducible 
from  bishop  Law's  lament,  is,  that  a  devotion  to  those  studies  fortifies 
the  youthful  mind  against  yielding  too  easily  to  the  attacks  of  heretical 
pravity.  Other  remarks,  unavoidably  brief,  connected  with  the  chief 
purpose  for  which  I  have  quoted  these  words,  are  reserved  for  another 
part  of  this  note. 

While  writing  these  lines  I  am  reminded  of  an  expression  employed 
by  the  late  archbishop  Markham.     The  respectable  vicar  of  a  large  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


2i6  HISTORY  OF  THfi 

populous  parish  in  Yorkshire,  with  whom  it  was  my  happiness  in  very 
early  life  to  live  on  terms  of  intimacy,  had  written  to  his  Grace  in 
hehalf  of  a  clever  Cambridge-man,  who  had  taken  a  high  d^ee,  and 
whom  he  was  desirous  of  engaging  as  his  curate,  after  he  had  received 
deacon's  orders.  The  reply  of  the  archbishop,  dignified  yet  playful, 
was  read  to  me  the  morning  after  its  arrival;  and  as  two  hopeful 
Oxford-graduates  had  likewise  been  mentioned,  in 'my  aged  friend's 
communication,  he  was  told,  without  any  appearance  of  acrimony, 
though  his  Grace  was  himself  an  eminent  Oxonian,  that  Cambridge- 
men  were  usually  well-qualified  to  excel  as  clever  excisemen,  but  that 
few  of  them  ever  became  good  divines.  There  may  be  some  shrewd- 
ness in  this  piece  of  pleasantry ;  but  it  is  unaccompanied  with  those 
incontrovertible  essentials  of  truth  which  never  mislead,  as  the  reader 
will  perceive  when  he  has  perused  the  candid  and  sensible  observations 
of  that  highly  gifted  and  very  amiable  man,  archbishop  Whately,  which 
form  a  part  of  the  "  Preface"  to  his  celebrated  "  Elements  of  Logic," 
and  which  I  here  subjoin,  in  proof  that  Oxford  scholars  are  not 
insensible  of  some  defects  in  their  system  :— - 

^'  It  was  doubtless  from  a  strong  and  deliberate  conviction  of  the 
advantages,  direct  and  indirect,  accruing  from  an  acquaintance  with 
logic,  that  the  University  of  Oxford,  when  re -modelling  their  system, 
not  only  retained  that  branch  of  study,  regardless  of  the  clamours  of 
many  of  the  half-learned,  but  even  assigned  a  prominent  place  to  it, 
by  making  it  an  indispensable  part  of  the  examination  for  the  first 
degree.     This  last  circumstance,  however,  I  am  convinced,  has,  in  a  • 
great  degree,  produced  an  effect  opposite  to  what  was  designed.     It 
has  contributed  to  lower,  instead  of  exalting,  the  estimation  of  the 
st;udy ;  and  to  withhold  from  it  the  earnest  attention  of  many  who 
might  have  applied  to  it  with  profit.     I  am  not  so  weak  as  to  imagine 
that  any  system  can  ensure  great 'proficiency  in  any  pursuit  whatever, 
either  in  all  students,  ot  in  a  very  large  proportion  of  them :    *  we 
sow  many  seeds  to  obtain  a  few  flowers : '  but  it  might  have   been 
expected,  (and  doubtless  was  expected,)  that  a  majority  at  least  of 
successful  candidates  would  derive    some  benefit  worth  mentioning 
from  their  logical  pursuits  ;  and  that  a  considerable  proportion  of  the 
distinguished  candidates  would   prove   respectable,  if   not  eminent, 
logicians.     Such  expectations  I  do  not  censure  as  imreasonable,   or" 
such  as  I  might  not  have  formed  myself,  had  I  been  called  upon  to 
judge  at  that  period  when  our  experience  was  all  to  come.     Subse- 
quently, however,  experience  has  shown  that  those  expectations  have 
been  very  inadequately  realized.     The  truth  is,  that  a  very  small  pro- 
portion,  even  of  distinguished  students,  ever  become  proficients  in 
logic ;  and  that  by  far  the  greater  part  pass  through  the  University 
without  knowing  anything  at  all  of  the  subject.     I  do  not  mean  that 
they  have  not  learned  by  rote  a  string  of  technical  terms ;  but  that 
they  understand  absolutely  nothing  whatever  of  the  principles  of  the 
etricnce. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  247 

^  Theology,  not  being  a  science,  admits  of  infinite  degrees  of  profi- 
ciencj,  froni  that  which  is  within  the  reach  of  a  child,  up  to  the 
iiighest  that  is  attainable  by  the  most  exalted  genius ;  every  one  of 
which  degrees  is  inestimably  yaluable  as  far  as  it  goes.  If  any  one 
underatands  tolerably  the  Church  Catechism,  or  even  the  half  of  it, 
he  knows  something  of  divinity ;  and  that  something  is  incalculably 
preferable  to  nothing.  But  it  is  not  so  with  a  science  :  one  who  does 
not  understand  the  principles  of  Euclid's  demonstrations,  whaterer 
number  of  questions  and  answers  he  may  haye  learned  by  rote,  knows 
absolutely  nothing  of  geometry :  unless  he  attain  this  point,  all  his 
bbonr  is  utterly  lost ;  worse  than  lost,  perhaps,  if  he  is  led  to  beliere 
that  he  has  learned  something  of  a  science,  when,  in  truth,  he  has  not. 
And  the  same  is  the  case  with  logic,  or  any  other  science.  It  does 
not  admit  of  such  yarious  degrees,  as  a  knowledge  of  religion.  Of 
course  I  am  £ur  from  supposing  that  aU  who  understand  anything  at  all 
of  logic  stand  on  the  same  lerel ;  but  I  mean,  what  is  surely  undeniable, 
that  one  who  does  not  embrace  the  fundamental  principles  of  that,  or 
any  other  science,  whatever  he  may  haye  taken  on  authority,  and  learned 
by  rote,  knows,  properly  spealdng,  nothing  of  that  science.  And 
snch,  I  have  no  hesitation  in  saying,  is  the  case  with  a  considerable 
proportion  even  of  those  candidates  who  obtain  testimonials,  including 
many  who  gain  distinction.  There  are  some  persons  (probably  not  so 
many  as  one  in  ten,  of  such  as  have  in  other  respects  tolerable  abili- 
ties) who  are  physically  incapable  of  the  degree  of  steady  abstraction 
requisite  for  really  embracing  the  principles  of  logic  or  of  any  other 
science,  whatever  pains  may  be  taken  by  themselves  or  their  teachers. 
But  there  is  a  much  greater  number  to  whom  this  is  a  great  difficulty, 
though  not  an  impossiblity ;  and  who,  having,  of  course,  a  strong 
disinclination  to  such  a  study,  look  naturally  to  the  very  lowest  admis- 
sible standard.  And  the  example  of  such  eicaminations  in  logic  as 
must  be  expected  in  the  case  of  men  of  these  descriptions,  tends,  in 
combination  with  popular  prejudice,  to  degrade  the  study  altogether 
in  the  minds  of  the  generality." 

The  conclusions  deducible  from  these  important  remarks  of  the  very 
ileanied  archbishop  are  strikingly  in  accordance  with  those  of  bishop 
Law ;  though  the  latter  Speaks  in  a  tone  of  bitter  vituperation  con- 
cerning "  the  dull,  crabbed  system  of  Aristotle's  Logic,"  and  the  former, 
in  a  manner  the  most  skilful  and  judicious,  points  out  the  great  utility 
of  that  system,  when  properly  applied.  From  each  of  these  famous 
masters  in  Israel  we  may  learn,  that  both  Mathematics  and  Logic  are 
only  instruments  ;  that  many  youthful  students  regard  them  as  an  end^ 
rather  than  as  means ;  that  others,  who  are  adepts  in  them,  seem  to 
possess  no  capacity  for  applying  them  to  suitable  and  legitimate 
purposes,  but  handle  them  in  a  manner  quite  as  harmless  as  that  in 
which  an  infant  plays  with  a  gilded  toy ;  that  "  these  assistants^  these 
comparatively  meagre  instruments,  *"  eat  up  all  that  is  good  and  well- 
favoured  '  in  the  sciences  themselves ; "  ^^  that  they  usurp  the  place  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


248  HlSTOllY  OF  THE 

those  very  sciences  to  which  they  were  originally  designed  to  he 
subservient,  and  for  which  station  they  are  sufficiently  qualified;" 
^<  that  these  kelps  for  conducting  an  inquiry  through  the  whole 
Cyclopaedia,  instead  of  continuing  to  perform  such  useM  offices,  are, 
by  the  mere  force  of  fashion,  set  up  for  a  capital  branch  of  it,  and  the 
best  part  of  the  scholar's  time  spent  in  speculating  on  these  same 
instruments  ;**  that  ^'a  yery  smedl  proportion  eren  of  distinguished 
students  ever  become  proficients ;  *  that  ^'  they  hare  learned  by  rote  a 
string  of  technical  terms,  but  understand  absolutely  nothing  whaterer 
of  the  science  *  which  has  long  been  the  chief  object  of  their  attention ; 
that  ^'  some  persons  are  physically  incapable  of  the  degree  of  steady 
abstraction  requisite  for  readly  embracing  the  principles  of  any  sci- 
ence ; "  and  that  "  there  is  a  much  greater  number,  to  whom  this  is  a 
great  difficulty,  though  not  an  impossibility,  and  who,  having  a  strong 
disinclination  to  such  a  study,  look  naturally  to  the  very  lowest 
admissible  standard." 

The  preceding  admiasionfl  are  creditable  to  the  honourable  and  culti- 
vated minds  of  these  distinguished  prelates ;  but  the  results  which  they 
severally  deplore  are  easily  accounted  for  on  the  conmum  principles  of 
human  nature.  Were  an  accurate  and  extensive  knowledge  of  pc^te 
learning,  of  what  is  usually  included  in  the  term  Belles  Lettres^  or 
were  an  acquaintance  with  any  other  science,  made  the  general  test  of 
scholarship  in  our  Universities,  the  change  would  not  abate  the  evil, 
nor  lessen  the  causes  of  complaint.  In  this  view,  much  might  be  said 
in  defence  of  those  good  and  wise  men  who,  at  various  periods  of  our 
literaiy  history,  have  instituted  the  several  tests  which  some  may  seek 
to  alter ;  but  my  circumscribed  limits  prevent  me  firom  adverting  to 
this  topic,  and  to  others  of  still  greater  moment.  Norris,  however, 
notwithstanding  the  occasionally  large  admixture  of  Platonism  in  his 
lucubrations,  has,  with  great  truth  of  nature,  described  some  of  the 
reasons  why  all  men  cannot  attain  to  true  learning,  and  why  the  poetic 
axiom  is  not  found  to  be  in  ail  cases  correct  :-— 

Ingenuat  didicUte  ficMUtr  ariet 
EmoUU  more*,  nee  tinit  eueferoe^ 

^  However  strong  and  universal  is  the  desire  of  knowledge,  men  are 
generally  more  in  love  with  the  fame  and  reputation  of  it,  than  with 
the  thin^  itself.  But,  though  the  generality  of  man  be  so  passionatel j 
and  keenly  set  upon  the  fame  of  being  learned  and  knowing,  yet,  so 
little  hath  nature  designed  to  gratify  this  ambitious  humour,  there  are 
but  very  few  that  have  either  a  gfenius  and  inclination  for  learning  itself, 
or  a  capacity  of  attaining  to  it.««-Not  an  inclination,  because  there  is 
a  great  variety  in  the  speculative  as  weU  as  moral  indioaticms  of  men, 
one  being  naturally  disposed  to  this  sort  of  study  and  another  to  that ; 
whereas  true  knowledge  is  of  one  determinate  kind  or  nature  in  general, 
and  consequently  must  require  a  certain  peculiar  firame  and  diiqK>sl- 
tion  of  mind.-^Not  a  capacity,  because  the  generality  of  mankind  are 
known  to  have  but  indifferent  intellectuals,  suited  to  the  exigencies  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  249 

comnum  life ;  wh^eas  tnie  knowledge  must  be  supposed  to  be  a  thing 
of  uncommon  difficohj,  and  the  study  of  it  a  work  fit  only  for  sablimer 
wits^  the  more  elevated  and  awakened  part  of  mankind.    Few  may 
Booceed  well  in  the  search  of  what  they  were  natorally  ^[ualified  for ; 
and,  haying  attained  to  a  competency  of  tme  knowled^  such  as  is 
perfectiTe  of  the  understanding,  Hhej  find  themselTes  under  no  tempta- 
tion to  place  it  in  any  thing  else,  or  to  bring  into  credit  any  other  sort 
of  knowledge.    But  what  shall  we  do  with  the  others  ?    Are  they  to 
be  persuaded,  that  they  are  not  of  a  make  for  the  study  and  attainment 
of  leaming?    You  wiU  find  it  tough  w<Mrk  to  conTince  them  of  that. 
They  have  but  one  way  left,  and  that  is,  to  cry  up  something  or  other 
for  leaming  which  they  are  capable  of.     No  matter  whether  it  deserve 
that  name ;  it  is  enough  if  they  can  reach  it.    For,  those  who  cannot 
coiQpass  true  riches,  and  yet  will  hare  the  name  and  credit  of  it,  are 
put  upon  the  necessity  of  coining  and  counterfeiting.    True  learning 
ought  to  be  placed  in  the  knowledge  of  necessary  truth,  in  the  com- 
prehension of  those  arts  and  sciences  whose  foundations  are  not  arbi- 
trary, but  stable  and  immutable,  and  in  understanding  the  eternal  and 
undiangeable  laws  and  measures  of  reason  and  consequence.    He 
therefore  is  the  truly  learned  and  knowing  man,  who  has  furnished  his 
mind  with  bright  and  clear  ideas,  lodged  them  orderly  and  regularly 
in  his  head,  and  settled  the  relations  and  consequences  of  one  to 
another ;  he  that  is  able  to  think  clearly  and  distinctly,  (for  so  much  a 
man  knows  as  he  distinctly  understands,  and  no  more,)  to  judge  truly 
and  solidly,  and  to  reason  dependently  and  consequentially.     But 
the  world  does  not  esteem  him  a  learned  man,  whose  learning  has 
cleare4  his  understanding,  who  is  arrived  to  clearness  and  distinctness 
of  conception,  and  is  a  thorough  master  of  notion  and  discourse.    No  ; 
it  win  cost  great  pains,  great  labour  of  mind,  and  anxiety  of  thinking, 
to  anire  to  this  pitch.    Nor  will  all  the  pains  in  the  world  do,  unless 
a  man  be  naturally  made  for  it,  unless  he  be  of  a  notional  complezi<m, 
and  has  had  his  head  cast  in  a  metaphysical  mould :  whereupon,  this 
attainment  is  like  to  be  the  lot  of  a  very  few.    This,  therefore,  must 
not  be  leaming;  but  something  else  must,  that  lies  more  within 
common  reach,  though  of  no  real  moment  to  the  perfection  d  the 
understanding :  such  are  contingent  truths ;  and  yet  leaming  is  gene- 
rally placed  in  tbjd  knowledge  of  these.    It  is  reckoned  a  notable 
point  of  learning,  to  understand  variety  of  languages.     This  alone 
gives  a  man  a  title  to  leaming  without  one  grain  of  sense.    Words  are 
purely  in  order  to  thought  and  sense ;  and,  therefore,  are  of  no  further 
value  than  as  iJiey  serve  as  helps  either  to  learn  or  to  communicate  the 
other.    To  affect  them  therefore  for  themselves,  is  to  turn  the  means 
into  the  end.    Another  thing  there  is  which  passes  for  vronderful 
leaming,  and  that  is  our  sophistical  vray  of  disputation.     I  think  Mon- 
■ieur  Qassendi,  in  his  Paradoxical  Exercitattont^  has  given  us  a  tme 
image  and  representation  of  it,  when  he  tells  of  the  six  eggs  which  the 
countryman  ordered  to  be  provided  for  the  entertainment  of  his  son, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


250  HISTORY  OF  THB 

when  he  retotned  home  from  the  Unirenitj.  The  fiither  would  have 
him  boil  six  eggs :  two  for  him,  two  for  his  mother,  and  two  for  him- 
self. Bat  the  son,  having  an  itch  to  show  a  proof  of  his  scholastic 
improyement,  boiled  but  three.  When  his  father  asked  him  why  he 
had  not  provided  six :  *  Why,'  says  he,  '  are  there  not  here  six  ?  * 
How  so  ?  says  the  father,  /  can  see  hut  three.  '  No  ! '  replies  the 
young  sophister,  ^  is  not  here  one  ? '  (telling  them  out,)  '  and  is  not 
there  tvro  ?  and  is  not  there  three  ?  And  do  not  oub,  two,  and 
THREE  make  six  ? '  Well^  says  the  father,  then  I  will  take  two,  and 
your  mother  shall  have  one,  and  you  shall  have  the  other  three  ! — 
And  I  now  think  all  was  right  and  as  it  should  be.  The  son,  for  his 
part,  gave  a  true  specimen  of  his  University-Ieaming ;  and  the  Neither 
served  him  very  well,  and  in  his  kind ;  that  is,  showed  him  trick  for 
trick.  As  fisur  as  I  could  ever  observe  for  thirteen  years  together,  this 
great  mystery  of  disputation  is  nothing  else  but  a  mere  tossing  of 
words  backward  and  forward,  sometimes  without  any  jneaning,  which 
is  canting ;  and  sometimes  with  more  meanings  than  one,  which  is 
punning.  There  are  many  other  things  [[beside  a  knowledge  of  his- 
tory, chronology,  &c.'2  which  the  unaccountable  humour  of  the  world 
has  turned  up  for  learning,  for  which  ignorance  will  never  be  the 
better,  and  which  wisdom -does  not  need.  A  well-read  man  signifies 
the  very  same  as  a  learned  man,  in  .most  men's  dictionaries ;  and  hy 
WELL-READ  they  do  not  mean  one  that  has  read  well,  that  has  cleared 
and  improved  his  understanding  by  his  reading,  but  only  one  that  has 
read  a  great  deal,  though  perhaps  he  has  puzzled  and  confounded  his 
notions  by  doing  so.  Thus  again  it  goes  for  learning,  to  be  acquainted 
with  men's  opinions,  especially  of  the  ancients;  what  this  or  that 
author  says,  though  perhaps  he  says  nothing  but  what  is  either  absurd 
or  obviously  true.  It  is  thought  learning,  to  know  the  very  titles  of 
books,  and  their  several  editions,  with  the  time  and  place  when  and 
where  they  were  printed.  Prom  this  placing  of  learning  in  the  know- 
ledge of  books,  proceeds  that  ridiculous  vanity  of  multiplying  quota- 
tions, though  they  are  used  so  unseasonably  and  impertinently  that 
there  can  be  no  other  end  in  them  than  only  to  show  that  the  author 
has  read  such  a  book :  and  yet  it  is  no  such  convincing  evidence  of 
that  neither, — ^it  being  neither  new  nor  difficult  for  a  man  that  is 
resolved  upon  it,  to  quote  such  authors  as  he  never  read  nor  saw. 

"Attention,  or  application  of  mind  to  the  intelligible  world,  the 
world  of  truth,  is  a  virtual  mental  prayer,  an  act  of  intellectual  devo- 
tion to  *•  the  Father  of  Lights,'  and  such  as,  if  more  expressly  uttered 
and  unfolded,  bespeaks  Him  in  the  words  of  the  royal  supplicant : 
Give  me  Wisdom,  that  sitteth  by  thy  throne  !  This  is  to  take  hold  of 
essential  truth  nakedly  as  it  is  in  itself;  it  is  to  fix  the  eye  of  the  mind 
upon  the  Intellectual  Sun,  upon  Him  who  is  Substantial  Truth,  and 
the  light  of  the  world.  So  a  man  that  casts  a  short,  careless  glance 
upon  the  galaxy,  sees  only  a  confused  whiteness  arising  firom  the 
numerous  mixture  of  little  splendours.     But  when  the  same  person 


Digitized  by 


Google 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE.  251 

fixes  his  eye  with  steadiness  and  delay  of  application,  he  begins  to  dis* 
cem  something  more  distinctly ;  a  new  star  ever  and  anon  arises  under 
his  inspection,  not  diaeorered  before ;  and  still  the  longer  and  harder 
he  looks,  the  more  he  discerns;  till  at  length  he  has  disoorered  as 
xnnch  as  he  can  well  attend  to  at  once,  and  has  satiated  his  fiuml^ 
with  the  brightness  and  moltitade  of  light.    This  was  the  method  of 
the  first  inyentors  of  arts  and  sciences,  who  made  their  way  into  the 
coasts  of  learning  by  mere  dint  of  thinking;  and  this  is  the  rery 
method  that  has  been  used  by  the  greatest  improrers  of  them  ever 
since:  sach  as  Bacon,  Botlb,  Descartes,  Gaulbus,   Mersenkits, 
DioBT,  Malebrakchb,  Poirbt,  and  (whom  I  name  with  particular 
honour  and  reyerence)  our  excellent  friend  Dr.  Mors.    And  I  dare 
prophesy*  that,  if  erer  any  extraordinary  adTanoement  be  finr  the  futore 
made  in  the  world,  it  will  be  done  by  thinking.— Whereas  purity  of 
heart  and  life  is  another  method,  it  is  a  sad  as  well  as  a  true  obserration, 
that  this  is  neglected  among  the  generality  of  those  few  that  addict 
themselyes  to  the  cultiyation  and  improyement  of  their  minds.    Men 
famed  for  learning  are  oftentimes  as  infamous  for  liying;  and  many  that 
study  hard  to  furnish  their  heads^  are  yet  yery  negligent  in  purifying 
their  hearts,  not  considering  that  there  is  a  moral  as  well  as  a  natural 
communication  between  one  and  the  oiher,  and  that  they  are  con- 
cerned to  be  pure  in  heart  and  life,  not  only  upon  the  common  account, 
— ^in  order  to  a  happy  state  hereafter,  but  also  in  pursuance  of  their 
own  particular  way  and  end  here. — ^Lastly.  Whereas  another  method 
of  wisdom  is  prayer ;  I  do  not  find,  that  the  generality  of  students  do 
at  all  apply  themselyes  to  this  method.  Pray  indeed  (it  is  to  be  hoped) 
they  do  for  other  things,  which  they  think  lie  more  out  of  their  reach ; 
but,  as  for  learning  and  knowledge,  they  think  they  can  compass  this 
well  enough  by  their  own  proper  industry  and  the  help  of  good  books, 
without  being  beholden  to  the  assistance  of  Heayen."  * 

By  his  contemporaries  Norris  was  charged  with  Quakerism,  for 
some  mystic  notions  which  he  propounded  in  his  admirable  Letter  to 
lady  Masham,  the  hostess  of  Locke,  and  the  accomplished  daughter 
of  die  immortal  Cudworth.  But  he  is  not  to  be  reprehended  for  those 
extracts  which  I  haye  giyen  in  the  last  paragraph,  on  the  subject  of 
prayer;  the  principle  of  this  was  conceded,  and  the  practice  of  it 
adopted,  eyen  by  some  of  the  well-educated  Deists  of  that  and  the 

I  preceding  age ;  though  they  did  not  always  striye  to  unite  with  it  the 
other  necessary  adjunct, — ^purity  of  heart  and  life.  Let,  howeyer,  no 
youthful  student  be  deterred  from  the  best  exertion  of  his  mental 
powers,  through  a  few  of  the  sweeping  and  austere  conclusions  of  this 

I  author.  Many  of  the  minor  pursuits  of  the  learned  which  he  tries  to 
depreciate  and  minify,  are  exceedingly  useful  and  yery  important ; 
and  it  is  a  happy  circumstance  for  all  who  are  concerned  in  the  world 

I       of  letters,  that  there  is  such  a  diyersified  division  of  intellectual  labour, 

•  *'  Reflections  upon  the*  Conduct  of  human  Life,  with  Reference  to  the  Study  of 
I        LearniDg  and  Knowledge," 


Digitized  by 


Google 


252  HISTORY  OF  THE  UNIVERSITY  OF  CAMBRIDGE. 

—each  well-qualified  man  addicting  himself  to  that  peculiar  branch 
(eren  though  it  may  be  deemed  a  recondite  one)  for  which  he  either 
feels  an  inward  appetency,  or  which  appears  to  be  assigned  to  him  as 
the  allotment  of  an  All-wise  Providence.  Besides,  this  diatribe  \a  the 
best  moderator  of  its  own  seyeriiy,  mixed  as  it  is  with  much  that  is 
true ;  for,  only  he  who  had  himself  made  a  complete  circuit  through 
the  wide  field  of  human  knowledge  could  write  thus  learnedly,  in  his 
old  age,  against  many  sdenoes  for  which,  it  is  rery  eyident,  he  had 
no  natural  appeten<7,.  but  all  of  which  are  in  their  several  orders 
beneficial  to  mankind. 

Neither  let  any  young  aspirant  after  literary  fame  be  disheartened, 
under  the  apprehension  that  he  is  one  of  those  ^^  who  are  physically 
incapable  of  the  degree  of  steady  abstraction  requisite  for  really 
embracing  any  science ; "  for,  this  is  a  fear  that  has  been  felt  in  early 
Ufe  by  some  of  the  ablest  (yet  most  diffident)  men  that  ever  lived. 
Extremely  rare  indeed  are  the  great  men  of  universal  genius ;  but  it  is 
satis&ctory  to  know  from  archbishop  Whately,  who  is  a  most  com- 
petent authority,  that  ^  of  such  as  have  in  other  respects  tolerable 
abilities,  probably  not  so  many  as  mie  in  ten  are  physically  incapable" 
of  excelling  in  any  laudable  pursuit  to  which  they  may  apply  their 
powers.  Many  young  men  are  depressed  in  spirit,  and  mentally  ruined, 
through  the  nanrow  perversity  of  some  of  those  under  whom  it  is  their 
misfortune  to  be  placed  for  the  acquisition  of  knowledge.  These 
shallow  preceptors  have  one  invariable  standard  for  the  admeasurement 
of  all  intellectual  developements,both  as  to  time,  height,  and  quality;  and 
the  youth  who  does  not  come  up,  at  the  fixed  time  and  manner,  to  the 
proposed  height,  is  frowned  upon  and  denounced  as  a  blockhead.  Still 
more  unfortunate  is  the  case,  when  any  young  person  quietly  sits  down, 
without  a  redeeming  struggle,  under  the  belief  of  his  own  utter  incom- 
petency, as  one  "  unto  every  good  work  reprobate,"  forsaken  of  God, 
and  disowned  by  man.  But  let  him  know  that  it  is  a  peculiar  gift 
of  Heaven,  not  possessed  by  every  tutor,  to  distinguish  and  appreciate 
the  extremely  varied  talents  of  pupils.  The  hardy  primrose,  snow- 
drop, crocus,  daisy,  and  cowslip  are  among  the  precocious  flowers  which 
adorn  the  early  peep  of  Spring.  But  he  is  assuredly  an  ignorant  and 
perverse  man  who,  while  admiring  these,  can  hastily  slight  the  shy 
violet,  the  long-hesitating  rose,  pink,  or  carnation,  with  the  later-blowing 
lily,  in  the  plainness  of  their  embryo  enclosures ;  and  the  best  reproof 
to  be  conveyed  to  such  an  one  is,  to  exhibit  to  his  astonished  and 
overpowered  senses  these  still  more  fragrant  and  beautiful  flowers, ' 
in  all  their  maturity  of  blooming  Summer-pride.  A  formal  moral  to 
this  obvious  (though  incomplete)  simile  is  not  here  required. 

This  brief  digression  from  the  history  of  the  early  culture  of  the 
Mathematics  in  this  University,  involves  other  collateral  topics  of  great 
interest ;  for  the  discussion  of  which  this  well-filled  volume  aflbrds  no 
space — Edit. 

END   OF   ADDITIONAL   NOTE. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


THE  HISTORY 


OF 


WALTHAM-ABBEY  IN  ESSEX. 


FOUNDED  BY  KING  HAROLD. 


Patria  ett  uhicunque  est  ben4 ; 
Beni  vimt,  qui  beni  latuit. 


BY    THOMAS    FULLER, 

THE  CURATE   THEREOF. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


TO   THE 

RIGHT  HONOURABLE  JAMES  HAY, 

EARL  OP  CARLISLE, 

VISCOUNT  DONCASTER,  BABON  OF  SAULEY 
AND  WALTHAM. 


I  HAVE  formerly  in  this  History  presumed  to  trouble 
your  Honour,  and  now  adventure  the  second  time. 
Indeed,  this  treatise  containeth  the  description  of  your 
large  demesnes,  and  larger  royalty  and  command. 
Should  I  therefore  present  it  to  any  other,  save  your- 
self^ it  would  be  held  as  a  stray  indeed,  (wandering 
out  of  the  right  way  it  should  go  in,)  and  so,  with- 
out any  thanks  to  me,  would  fall  to  your  Lordship,  as 
due  unto  you  by  the  custom  of  your  manor. 

Your  Honour's  most  obliged  servant  and  chaplain, 

THOMAS  FULLER. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


THE  HISTORY 


OF 


WALTHAM   ABBEY. 


I.  INTRODUCTION. 

1.  The  Author's  Desiffn. 
Providence,  by  the  hand  of  my,worthy  friends,  having  planted 
me  for  the  present  at  Waltham-abbey,  I  conceive,  that,  in  our 
general  work  of  abbeys,  I  owe  some  particular  description  to  that 
place  of  my  abode.  Hoping  my  endeavours  herein  may  prove 
exemplary  to  others  (who  dwell  in  the  sight  of  remarkable  monas- 
teries) to  do  the  like,  and  rescue  the  observables  of  their  habita- 
tions from  the  teeth  of  time  and  oblivion. 

2—7.  WaUham,  why  80  named.  The  Situation  thereof .  Excmd 
from  bad  Air.  First  founded  by  Twy.  Falls  bade  to  the 
Grown.    Bestowed  on  Earl  Harold. 

Waltham  is  so  called  from  the  Saxon  ham^  which  is  a  ^'  town, 
(whence  the  diminutive,  hamlet^)  and  wealdy  or  weaU^  that  % 
"  woody,""  (whence  the  weald  of  Kentj)  it  being  anciently  ove^ 
grown  with  trees  and  timber.  Thus  Kiriath-jearim^  or  "  the  city 
of  the  woods,^  in  Palestine ;  Dendros^  an  island  in  Peloponnesus ; 
Sylviaeumy  an  ancient  city  in  Belgia ;  got  their  names  from  the 
like  woody  situation.  Some  will  have  it  called  Waltham,  quasi 
Wealthie-ham :  I  wish  they  could  make  their  words  good,  in 
respect  of  the  persons  living  therein  ;  though,  in  regard  of  the  soil 
itself,  indeed  it  is  rich  and  plentiful. 

The  town  is  seated  on  the  east  side  of  the  river  Ley,  [Lea,] 
which  not  only  parteth  Hertfordshire  from  Essex,  but  also  seven 
times  parteth  from  itself ;  whose  septemfluous  stream,  in  conung  ^ 
the  town,  is  crossed  again  with  so  many  bridges.  On  the  one  side, 
the  town  itself  hath  large  and  fruitful  meadows,  (whose  intrinsic 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


is  iDWABD  coMFBSSoa.        HISTORY  OF  ITALTHAM-ABBET.  257 

value  is  much  raised  by  the  vicinity  of  London,)  the  grass  irhereof, 
vfhen  first  gotten  an  head,  is  so  sweet  and  luscious  to  cattle,  that 
they  diet  them,  at  the  first  entering  therein,  to  half  an  hour  a- day, 
lest  otherwise  they  over-eat  themselves  ;  which  some  kine  yearly  do^ 
and  quickly  die  for  it,  notwithstanding  all  their  keepers^  care  to  the 
contrary.  On  the  other  side,  a  spacious  forest  spreads  itself,  where, 
fourteen  years  since,  one  might  have  seen  whole  herds  of  xed  and 
fallow  deer.  But  these  late  licentious  years  have  been  such  a  Nim* 
rod,  such  *^an  hunter,*"  that  all  at  this  present  are  destroyed; 
though  I  could  wish  this  were  the  worst  efiTect  which  our  woful  wars 
have  produced. 

The  air  of  the  town  is  condemned,  by  many,  for  over-moist  and 
aguish,  caused  by  the  depressed  situation  thereof.  In  confutation 
of  which  censure,  we  produce  the  many  aged  persons  in  our  town, 
—above  threescore-and-ten,  since  my  coming  hither,  above  three- 
score-and-ten  jeas  of  age ;  so  that,  it  seems,  we  are  sufl^iently 
healthful,  if  sufficiently  thankful  for  the  same.  Sure  I  am,  what  is 
wanting  in  good  air  in  the  town  is  supplied  in  the  parish,  wherein 
as  manjr  pleasant  chills  and  prospects  are,  as  any  place  in  England 
doth  afford. 

Tovy,  a  man  of  great  wealth  and  authority,  as  being  £he  king^s 
staller,  (that  is,  -standard-bearer,)  first  founded  this  town,  for  the 
great  delight  which  he  took  in  the  game,  the  place  haviqg  plentj  of 
deer.     He  .planted  only  threescore-endr^iz  in^dwellers  ihejrein. 

Athelstan,  his  son,  proved  a  prodigal,  and  quickly  spent  all  his 
father's  goods  and  great  estate ;  so  that,  by  some  transactions,  the 
place  returned  to  thetcrown. 

Edward  the  Confessor  bestowed  Waltham,  with  the  lands  there- 
abouts, on  Harold,  his  brother-in-law,  who  presently  built  and 
endowed  therein  a  monastery,  whereof  nothing  at  this  day  is  extant, 
save  the  vvest  end,  or  body  of  the  church. 

8,  9.  The  Model  of  the  modem  Church.  Mortality  triumphant. 
A  structure  of  Gothic  building,  rather  large  than  neat,  firm  than 
fair ;  very  dark,  (the  design  of  thos^  days  to  raise  devotion,)  save 
that  it  was  helped  -again  with  artificial  lights ;  and  is  observed  bj 
artists  to  stand  the  most  exactly  east  and  west  of  any  in  England. 
The  great  pillars  thereof  ad*e  wreathed  with  indentings ;  which  vacu- 
ities, if  formerly  filled  up  with  brass,  (as  some  confidently  report,) 
added  much  to  the  beauty  of  the  building.  But  it  matters  not  so 
much  their  taking  away  the  brass  from  the  pillars,  had  they  but  left 
the  lead  on  the  roof,  which  is  but  meanly  tiled  at  this  day.  In  a 
word,  the  best  commendation  of  the  church  is,  that  on  Lord's  days, 
generally,  it  is  filled  with  a  great  and  attentive  congregation. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


258  HISTORY  OF  WALTHAM-ABBEY.  a.d.  1067 

To  thie  south  side  of  the  church  is  joined  a  chapel,  formerly  our 
lady'^s,  now  a  school-house,  and  under  it  an  arched  charnel-house, 
the  fairest  that  ever  I  saw.  Here  a  pious  fancy  could  make  a  feast 
to  itself  on  those  dry  bones,  with  the  meditation  of  mortality; 
where  it  is  hard,  yea,  impossible,  to  discern  the  sculls  of  a  rich  from 
a  poor— wise  from  a  simple— noble  from  a  mean — person.  Thus 
air  counters  are  alike,  when  put  up  together  in  the  box  6r  bag , 
though,  in  casting  of  account,  of  &r  different  valuation. 

10,  IL  A  Sean  and  Canons  founded  at  Waltham.     Sisventem 
Manors  confirmed  to  them  by  the  Confessor, 

King  Harold  dedicated  the  monastery  to  the  honour  of  a  Holy 
Cross,  found  far  westward,  and  brought  hither,  as  they  write,  by 
miracle;  whence  the  town  hath  the  addition  of  Waltham-Holy- 
Cross ;  but  the  church  we  find,  in  after-ages,  also  dedicated  to  St. 
Laurence.  His  foundation  was  for  a  dean,  and  eleven  secular  black 
canons.  Let  none  challenge  the  words  of  impropriety,. seeing  a 
dean,  in  Latin,  decanm^  hath  his  name  from  Sex^,  ^'  ten,^  over 
which  number  he  is  properly  to  be  preposed.  For,  nothing  more 
common  than  to  wean  words  from  their  infant  and  original  sense, 
and  by  custom  to  extend  them  to  a  larger  signification,  as  dean 
afterwards  plainly  denoted  "  a  superior  over  others,''  whether  fewer 
than  ten,  as  the  six  prebendaries  of  Rochester ;  or  more,  as  the 
three-and-thirty  of  Salisbury.  The  dean  and  eleven  canons  were 
plentifully  provided  for,  each  canon  having  a  manor,  and  the  dean 
six,  for  his  maintenance. 

For,  in  the  charter  of  confirmation,  made  by  king  Edward  the 
Confessor,  besides  North-land  in  Waltham,  (now  called,  as  I  take 
it.  North-field,)  wherewith  the  monastery  was  first  endowed,  these 
following  lordships,  with  all  their  appurtenances,  are  reckoned  up : 
1.  Passefield.  2.  Walde.  3.  Upminster.  4.  Walthfare.  5. 
Suppedene.  6.  Alwertowne.  7.  Wodeford.  8.  Lambehide. 
9.  Nesingan.  10.  Brickindon.  11.  Melnhoo.  12.  Alichsea. 
13.  Wormeley.  14.  Nichelswells.  15.  Hitchche.  16.  Luken- 
don.  17.  West-Wealtham.  All  these  the  king  granted  unto 
them  eum  sacha  4*  socha^  tol  Sg'  team^  &c.,  free  from  all  gelts 
[guilds]  and  |)ayments,  in  a  most  full  and  ample  manner ;  witness 
himself,  Edith  his  queen,  Stigand  archi^iscopus  Dorobomemis ; 
count  Harold,  and  many  other  bishops  and  lords  subscribing  the 
same  charter. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1  WILLIAM  I.  HISTORY  OF  WALTH AM- ABBEY.  2-59 

12,  13.  Harold  crottnedy  kiUed^  and  buried  at  WaUham. 
Deforming  Stformera. 

Afterward  Hafold  usurpeth  the  crown,  but  enjoyed  it  not  a  full 
year,  killed  in  battle-fight  .'by  king  William  the  Conqueror; 
where  either  of  their  swords,  if  victorious,  might  have  done  the 
deed,  though,  otherwise,  both  their  titles  twisted  together  could  not 
make  half  a  good  claim  to  the  crown.  Oitha,  mother  of  Harold, 
and  two  religious  men  of  this  abbey,  Osegod  and  Ailric,  with  their 
prayers  and  tears,  hardly  prevailed  with  the  Conqueror  (at  first 
denying  him  burial,  whose  ambition  had  caused  the  death  of  so 
many)  to  have  Harold^s  corpse  (with  his  two  brethren.  Girth  and 
Leofwin,  losing  their  lives  in  the  same  battles)  to  be  entombed  in 
Waltham  church,  of  his  foundation.  He  was  buried  where  now 
the  earl  of  Carlisle'^s  leaden  fountain  in  his  garden,  then  probably 
the  end  of  the  choir,  or  rather  some  eastern  chapel  "beyond  it :  his 
tomb  of  plain,  but  rich  gray  marble,  with  what  secmeth  a  cross- 
fioree  (but  much  descanted  on  with  art)  upon  the  same,  supported 
with  pillarets,  one  pedestal  whereof  I  have  in  my  house.  As  for 
his  reported  epitaph,  I  purposely  omit  it,  Jiot  so  much  because  bar- 
barous, (scarce  any  better  in  that  age,)  but  because  not  attested,  to 
my  apprehension,  with  sufficient  authority. 

A  picture  of  king  Harold  in  glass  was  lately  to  be  seen  in  the 
north  window  of  the  church,  till  ten  years  since  some  barbarous 
hand  beat  it  down,  under  the  notion  of  superstition.  Surely,  had 
such  ignorant  persons  been  employed,  in  the  days  of  Hezekiah,  to 
purge  the  temple  from  the  former  idolatry;  under  the  pretence 
thereof  they  vould  havercnded  off  the  lily-work  from  the  pillars  ; 
and  the  lions,  oxen,  and  cherubiras  from  the  bases  of  brass.  "How- 
ever, there  is  still  a  place  called  HaroldVpark  in  our  parish,  by 
him  so  denominated.  Let  not,  therefore,  the  village  of  Hardld,  on 
the  north  side  of  Ouse,  near  Bedford,  (properly  Harewood,  or 
Harelswood,  on  vulgar,  groundless  tradition,)  contest  with  Walt- 
ham  for  this  king's  interment. 


II.  THE  RE-POUND ATION  OF  WALTH AM-ABBEY 
BY  HENRY  II. 

1,  2.  WaJiham  Canons  in  a  sad  Condition.     The  InSkotry  of 
Bobert  FvUer^  last  Abbot  of  Waltham. 

One  will  easily  believe,  that,  at  the  death  of  king  Harold,  Walt- 
ham-Abbey,  founded  by  him,  was  in  a  swoon,  and  the  canons 
therein  much  disheartened.     Howeveu,  thejr  had  one  help,  -which 

S    2  Digitized  by  LiOOgle 


260  HISTORY  OF  WALTHAM-ABBEY.  a.d.  1166. 

was  this  : — That  Edward  the  Confessor  was  the  confirmer  of  their 
foundation,  whose  memory  was  not  only  fresh  and  fair  in  all  men's 
minds,  (bearing  a  veneration  to  his  supposed  sanctity,)  but  also 
ting  William  the  Conqueror  had  the  best  of  his  bad  titles  by 
bequest  of  the  crown  from  this  Confessor.  So  that,  in  some  sense, 
Waltham-Abbey  might  humbly  crave  kindred  of  king  William, 
l>oth  deriving  their  best  being  from  one  and  the  same  person. 

Know,  reader,  that  whatever  hereafter  I  allege  touching  the  lands 
and  liberties  of  Waltham-,  if  not  otherwise  attested  by  some  author 
in  the  margin,  is  by  me  faithfully  transcribed  out  of  Waltham 
ledger-book,  now  in  tlie  possession  of  the  Right  Honourable  James 
earl  of  Carlisle.  This  book  was  collected  by  Robert  Fuller,  the 
last  abbot  of  Waltham  ;  who,  though  he  could  not  keep  his  abbey 
from  dissolution,  did  preserve  the  antiquities  thereof  from  oblivion. 
The  book  (as  appears  by  many  inscriptions  in  the  initial  text-letters) 
was  made  by  himself,  having  as  happy  a  hand  in  fair  and  fast 
writing,  as  some  of  his  surname  since  have  been  defective  therein. 

3 — 5.    Queen  Maud  gives  Waltham  Monks  a  MiU:  Queen 
Adelisia  the  Tithes.    King  St^hevCs  Bounty. 

Not  long  after  the  Conquest,  Waltham-Abbey  found  good  bene- 
factors, and  considerable  additions  to  their  maintenance.  For, 
Maud,  the  first  queen  to  king  Henry  I.  bestowed  on  them  the  mill 
at  Waltham,  which  she  had  by  exchange  for  Trinity  Church,  in 
London  ;  which  I  take  to  be  part  of  the  Trinity  Priory,  now  called 
the  Duke's  Place. 

Adelisia,  second  wife  to  king  Henry  I.  being  possessed  of  Walt- 
ham as  part  of  her  revenue,  gave  all  the  tithes  thereof,  as  well  of 
her  demesnes  as  all  tenants  therein,  to  the  canons  of  Waltham. 
Meantime,  how  poorly  was  the  priest  of  the  place  provided  for ! 
Yea,  a  glutton  monastery  in  former  ages  makes  an  hungry  mlnistiy 
in  our  days.  An  abbey,  and  a  parsonage  unin^pro.priate^  in  the 
same  place,  are  as  inconsistent  together,  as  good  woods  ^nd  an  iron 
mill.  Had  not  Waltham  chi»rch  lately  met  with  a  noble  founder, 
tlie  minister  thereof  must  have  kept  more  fasting-days  than  ever 
were  put  in  die  Roman  Calendai;. 

Khig  Stephen,  though  lie  came  a  wrong  way  to  the  crown,  yet 
did  all  right  to  the  monastery  of  Waltham,  (as  who  generally 
sought  the  good-will  of  the  clergy  to  strengthen  himself,)  and  con- 
£rmed  all  their  lands,  profits,  and  privileges  unto  them. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


2  HENRY  IT.  HISTORY  OF  WALTHAM.ABBSY.  261 

6—10.  Kinff  Henry  distohei  the  Dean  and  Canom  at  Wakkam. 
Aufftutinians  subttituted  in  their  Boom.  Rome-Land  in 
Wakham.  Fitz-Aueher  iettled  at  Cop^HaU.  Hugh  Neville 
a  bountijvl  Benefactor.  • 

King  Henry  II.  utteilj  dissolved  the  foundation  of  dean  and 
eleven  canons  at  Walthani.  The  debauchedness  of  their  lives  is 
rendered  in  his  charter  as  the  occasion  thereof :  Cum  in  ed  eanonid 
clerieique  minus  reliffiosi  et  cequaliter  tiaissent^  ita  quod  infamia 
c&nversationis  iUorum  muUos  tbandalieaseet.  Whether  these  were 
leally  or  only  reputed  vicious,  Ood  knows ;  seeing  all  those  must 
be  guilty  whom  power  is  pleased  to  pronounce  so.  Sure  it  is,  king 
Henry  outed  this  dean  and  canons,  and  placed  an  abbot  and  regu- 
lar Augustinians  in  their  room,  increasing  their  number  to  twenty- 
four.  And  because  (to  use  the  king^s  own  words)  it  was  fit,  ^'  that 
Christ^s  spouse  should  have  a  new  dowry,"*^  he  not  only  confirmed  to 
this  monastery  the  primitive  patrimony  mentioned  in  the  Confess- 
or's charter,  cum  pedis  terras^  "  with  many  pieces  of  land,^  and 
tenements,  which  their  benefactors  since  bestowed  upon  them,  but 
also  conferred  the  rich  manors  of  Sewardstone  and  Eppings  on  this 
monastery. 

The  whole  charter  of  king  Henry  is  too  long  to  transcribe,  but 
some  passages  therein  must  not  be  omitted.  First.  The  king  had 
tbe  consent  of  pope  Alexander  for  the  suppression  of  these  canons ; 
the  rather  moved  thereunto,  quia  prasdictis  eanonicis  sufficienter 
prmsumjuity  ^^  because  the  aforesaid  expelled  canons  had  sufficient 
provision  made  for  them.*"  For,  grant  them  never  so  scandalous, 
this  was  to  add  scandal  to  scandal, — ^to  thrust  them  out  of  house 
and  home,  vrithout  any  means  or  maintenance.  Secondly.  This 
charter  presents  us  vnth  the  ancient  liberties  of  Waltham  church, 
that,  semper  fuit  regtdis  capeUa  ex  primitivd  sui  Jundatione^  nuUi 
archiepiseopo  tel  q>isecpOy  sed  tant^m  ecdesiw  Bmnanoa  et  regice 
dispositioni  subjecta.  And  though,  since  Reformation,  the  church 
hath  been  subjected  to  the  archbishop''s  jurisdiction,  (as  succeeding 
to  the  royal  power,)  and  sometimes  with  grumbling  and  reluctancy 
to  the  episcopal  power,  yet  it  never  as  yet  owned  an  archdeacon,  or 
appeared  at  his  visitation^ 

The  mentioning  of  the  consent  of  pope  Alexander  to  the  sup- 
pression of  Waltham  dean  and  canons,  and  substituting  Augusti- 
nians in  their  room,  mindeih  me  of  a  spacious  place  in  this  town,  at 
the  entrance  of  the  abbey,  built  about  with  houses,  called  Borne- 
^ndy  as  (Peter-pence  were  termed  Bome-scot)  at  this  day.  It  is 
generally  believed,  that  (he  rents  thereof  peculiarly  belonged  to  the 
church  of  Rome.  Thus  the  pope  would  not  be  so  bad  a  carver  as 
to  cut  all  away  to  others,  and  reserve  no  corner  to  himself. 

Digitized  by  CjOOQ IC 


352,  HISTORY-  OF  WAiTHAM-ABBEY.  a.d.  1246. 

King  Richard  I.  (though  generally  not  too  loving  to  the  clergy) 
amply  confirmed  his  &ther^s  foundation,  and  gave  lands  to  Richard 
Fitz-Aucher  in  this  parish,  to  hold  them  in  fee,  and  hereditarily  of 
the  church  of  Waltham-JIoly-Cross.  This  Fitz-Aucher  fixed  him- 
self at  Copt-Hall,  a  stately  house  in  the  parish  ;  whether  so  called 
contractedly^  quasi  Cobbing-Hall,  from  Cobbing,  a  rivulet  running 
not  far  off;  or  from  two  ancient  and  essential  turrets  of  that  house, 
which  are  coped,  and  covered  with  lead  ;  or  from  (in  my  mind  most 
probable)  an  high  and  sharp  hill,  «(thu8  Copdandy  so  called,  in 
Cumberland,)  whereon  the  house  is  founded. 

In  or  about  this  king's  reign,  Hugh  Neville,  with  the  consent  of 
Jban'his  wife^  and  John  his  son,  bestowed  the  manor  of  Thorndon 
on  the  monasta'y  of  Waltham,  of  whom  largely  before. 

11, 12.  [King  Hemry  III.  bestows  a  Market  and  a  Fair.] 
Waltham  Market. 

King  Henry  III.  to  spare  court-keeping,  came  often  and  lay 
long  at  abbeys ;  so  that  Waltham  (the  nearest  mitred  abbey  to 
London)  had  much  of  his  company.  Being  a  religious  prince, 
great  were  his  desires ;  but,  withal  necessitous,  small  his  deeds  in 
endowing  churches.  However,  what  he  wanted  in  giving  himself, 
he  supplied  in  confirming  the  gifts  of  others.  And,  finding  it  tli^ 
cheaper  way  of  benefaction  to  give  liberties  than  lands,  he  bestowed 
on  Waltham  a  weekly  market,  and  a  fair,  (so  called  a  /eriando, 
"  from  people'^s  playing  there,'' )  to  last  seven  days ;  which  now  is 
divided  into  two,  but  of  shorter  continuance,  the  one  on  the  third 
day  of  May,  the  invention — ^the  other  on.  the  fourteenth  of  Septem- 
ber, the  exaltation— of  the  cross. 

We  now  have  a  market  on  Tuesday,  but  cannot  boast  of  much 
trading  therein.  Indeed^  there  is  plenty  of  flesh,  but  little  corn, 
brought  thither  ;  and  bread  is  the  staff,  as  of  a  man,  so  of  a  market. 
Nor  let  us  impute  the  thinness  of  chapmen  in  summer  to  husband- 
men's having  no  leisure,  as  busied  in  tillage,  hay,  or  harvest ;  or,  in 
winter,  to  their  having  no  pleasure  to  repair  thither  in  so  deep  and 
dirty  ways ;  seeing  the  plain  truth  is,  no  underwood  can  thrive  ne^ 
the  droppings  of  so  great  an  oak,  the  vicinity  of  London.  The 
golden  market  in  Leadenhall  makes  leaden  markets  in  all  the  towns 
thereabouts. 

13 — 16.  Broils  betwixt  the  Abbot  and  the  Townsmen  about  Com- 
mons.    The  8tv/rdiness  of  the  Townmrni.     The  most  guilty 
first  accuse.     The  Abbot  comes  off  Gor^ffueror. 
In  the  first  year  that  Simon  was  made  abbot,  (which  by  exactest 
proportion   we   collect   to   be   about   the   thirtieth    year  of  King 


Digiti 


zedbyLiOOgle 


31  HSN«K  III.  BldTOBY  OF  WALTHAM-ABBE7.  263 

Henry  III.)  the  men  of  Waltham  came  into  tlie  msnb,*  which 
the  abbot  and  his  convent  formerly  enjoyed  as  seyeral  to  themselves, 
killed  four  mares,  worth  forty  shillings  sterling  at  least,  and  drove 
away  all  the  rest.  The  abbot  was  politicly  pleased,  for  the  present. 
Dot  to  take  notice  thereof.  The  next  year  some  men  of  Waltham 
went  to  the  abbot,  the  Thursday  before  Easter,  in  the  name  of  the 
whole  village,  and  demanded  of  him  to  remove  his  mares  and  colts 
out  of  the  marsh.  This  the  abbot  reftised  to  do,  adding  withal, 
that  if  his  bailifis  had  placed  his  cattle  otherwhere  than  they  ought, 
they  might  do  well  to  have  it  amended,  yet  so  as  to  defer  the  matter 
till  Tuesday  after  Easter. 

On  that  Tuesday,.  RSehard,  brother  to  the  king,  duke  of  Corn- 
wall, came  to  Waltham,  at  what  time  both  the  men  and  w<»nen  of 
the  town  rqMiired  to  the  gate  of  the  abbey,  to  receive  the  abbot^s 
final  answer.  He  told  them,  that  he  could  not  speak  with  them  for 
the  present,  as  providing  himself  for  a  long  journey  into  Lincoln- 
shire, there  to  visit  the  Justices  Itinerant ;  but,  by  his  prior  and 
other  omons,  he  desired  them  to  be  patient  till  his  return,  when  he 
would  mend  what  was  to  be  mended.  Not  satisfied  therewith,  and 
neither  respecting  the  spiritual  holiness  of  the  abbot,  nor  temporal 
greatness  of  the  duke,  they  railed  at  and  reviled  him.  Then  into 
the  pasture  they  go ;  and,  in  driving  out  the  abbot^s  mares  and 
colts,  drowned  three  worth  twenty  shillings,  spoiled  ten  more  to  the 
value  of  ten  marks,  and  beat  their  keepers,  who  resisted  them,  even 
to  the  shedding  of  bloods 

But,  after  the  abbot  returned  from  Lincolnshire,  the  townsmen, 
fearing  they  should  be  trounced  for  their  riot,  desired  a  loveday, 
sabmitted  themselves  unto  him,  and  proffered  to  pay  him  damage. 
But)  next  day,  when  the  performance  of  these  promises  was 
ezpeeted,  away,  went  the  Waltham-meu,  with  their  wives  and 
children,  to  the  king  to  London,  enraging  him,  as  much  as  in  them 
)aj,  against  the  abbot,  accusing  him,  that  he  would  disinherit  them 
of  their  right,  bring  up  new  customs,  take  away  their  pastures,  and, 
to  use  their  own  words,  "  eat  them  up  to  the  bones ;"  and  that  he 
had  wounded  and  abused  some  of  them,  who  stood  defending  their 
own  rights.  Which  false  report  was  bdieved  of  many,  to  the  great 
disgrace  of  the  convent  of  Waltham. 

The  ab1x>t  would  not  put  up  [with]  so  great  a  wrong ;  but,,  having 
episcopal  power  in  himself,  proceeded  to  the  excommunication  of 
lie  rebellious  Walthamites.  But  the*  townsmen  went  another  way 
^  work;  namely,  to  defend  their  right  by  the  common  laws  of  the 
realm.    Whereupon*  Stephen  Fitz-Bennet,  Simon  of  the  Wood, 

*  M8.  of  £dwazd  Stacy,  [written  (ag  appears  by  chazactox).  one  hondxed  and  fQrt/ 
yews  since,  fol.  42.  ' 


Digitized  by 


Google 


264  ~  HISTORY  OF  WALTHAH.ABBGT.  A.i>,  124S. 

William  Theyden,  and  Ralph  of  the  Bridge,  in  the  name  of  all  the 
rest«  implead  the  abbot  for  appropriating  their  commons  to  himself. 
But',  in  fine,  (after  many  cross  pleadings  here  too  long  to  relate,) 
tlie  abbot  so  acquitted  himself,  that  he  made  both  his  onm  right 
and  the  townsmen's  riot  to  appear;  who*,  at  last,  at  the  King's 
Bench,  were  glad  to  confess  that  they  hatf  done  evil,  and  were 
amerced  twenty  marks  to  the  abbot,  which  he  not  only  remitted 
unto  them,  but  also,  on  their  submission,  assoiled  them  from  the 
excommunication. 

17—20.  T&e  Suit  hetwixt  the  Ahhot  of  WcMam  and  the  Lord 
of  Cfmthunt.  A  like  not  the  same.  The  Suit  determined. 
Accessions  to  lengthen  the  Cause. 

The  brawls  betwijrt  the  abbot  and  townsmen  of  Waltham  were 
no  sooner  ended,  but  far  fiercer  began  betwixt  the  said  abbot  and 
the  lord  of  Chesthunt,  on  the  like  occasion.  This  Chesthunt  is  a 
large  parish  in  Hertfordshire,  confining  on  the  west  of  Waltham, 
80  called,  saith  Norden,*  quasi  castanetum^  "  of  chestnut-trees," 
though  now,  I  believe,  one  hardly  appears  in  the  whole  lordship. 
In  this  suit,— - 

Plaintiff. — Peter  duke  of  Savoy,  the  king'^s  dtear  uncle;  (first 
founder,  I  take  it,  of  the  Savoy,  in  London,)  on  whom  the  king 
conferred  many  lordships,  and  Chesthunt  amongst  the  rest. 

Judges. — Ralph  Fitz-Nicholas  ;  John  of  Lexington ;  Paulin 
Peyner  Seneschal;  Henry  of  Bath;  Jeremy  of  Caxton ;  Henry 
de  Bretton. 

Defendant. — Simon,  the  abbot,  and  the  convent  of  Waltham. 

SoLiciTOEr. — Adam  de  Alyerton. 

The  Case.— The  plliintiflP endeavoured  to  prove,  that  the  stream 
of  Ley,  (called  the  KingVStream,)  dividing  Hertfordshire  from 
Essex,  ran  through  the  town  of  Waltham,  sil  the  land  west  thereof 
belonging  to  the  manor  of  Chesthunt.  This  was  denied  by  the 
defendant ;  maintaining,  that  Small-Ley-Stream,  running  well-nigii 
half  a  mile  west  of  Waltham,  parted  the  counties;  all  the  inter- 
jacent meadows  pertained  to  Waltham. 

Perusing  the  names  of  these  the  king's  Justices  at  Westminster, 
who  would  not  suspect  but  that  this  Henry  of  Bath  was  bishop  of 
that  see  ?  considering  how  many  clergymen  in  that  i^  ^^^e 
employed  in  places  of  judicature.  But  the  suspicion  is  causeless, 
finding  none  of  that  name  In  the  episcopal  catalogue.  Others  m 
like  manner  may  apprehend,  that  Bretton,  here  mentioned,  was  that 
learned  lawyer  (afterwards  bishop  of  Hereford)  who  wrote  the  book 
De  Juribus  Anglicanism  and  who  flourished  in  the  latter  end  of  the 

•  In  hia  shprjt  *•  Survey  of  Hertfordshire." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Sd  HBKftr  111.  DISTORT  OF  WAtTfiAlf.ABfiBY.  266 

rtig»  of  this*  king  Henry  III.*  But  his  name  being  John,  not 
Henry,  disco vereth  him  a  different  person. 

Not  long  after,  this  snit  was  finally  determined,  and  Peter  duke 
of  Savoy  remised  and  quit-claimed  from  him  and  his  heirs,  to  the 
said  abbot  and  his  successors,  the  right  and  claim  he  had  to  ask  in 
the  same  meadows  and  marshes  of  the  said  abbot.  This  is  called  in 
the  instrument  finalia  eoneardia,  though  it  proved  neither  ^^  final '" 
nor  a  ^^  concord.^  For,  soon  after,  this  palliate  cure  broke  out 
again ;  and  the  matter  was  in  variance  and  undetermined  betwixt 
Robert  the  last  abbot,  and  the  lord  of  Chesthunt,  when  the  abbey 
was  dissolved. 

Many  accessions  (besides  those  common  prolongers  of  all  suits, 
namely,  the  heat  of  men^s  anger,  and  the  bellows  of  instruments 
gainmg  by  law)  did  concur  to  lengthen  this  cause :— 1.  The  consi- 
derableness  and  concernment  of  the  thing  controverted,  being  a 
large  and  rich  portion  of  ground.  2.  The  difficulty  of  the  cause, 
about  the  channels  of  that  river,  which,  Proteus-like,  in  several  ages 
hath  appeared  in  sundry  forms,  disguised  by  derivations  on  different 
occasions.  3.  The  greatness  of  the  clients;  Chesthunt  lordship  being 
always  in  the  hand  of  some  potent  person,  and  the  corporation*  of 
Waltham-Gonvent  able  to  wage  law  with  him.  Hence  hath  this 
suit  been  as  long-lived  as  any  in  England,  not  excepting  that  in 
Gloucestershire  -|-  betwixt  the  posterity  of  viscount  Lisle,  and  the 
lord  Berkeley :  seeing  very  lately,  if  not  at  this  day,  there  were 
some  suits  about  our  bounds ;  Waltham  meadows  being  very  rich  in 
grass  and  hay,  but  too  fruitful  in  contentions. 

For  mine  own  part,  that  wound  which  I  cannot  heal  I  will  not 
widen  :  and,  seeing  I  may  say  with  the  poet,— 

Non  noHrum  inter  vot  tania*  eom^>onere  Uin  ^ 

'<  No  power  of  mine  so  hr  extends, 
As  for  to  make  both  parties  Mends  ; "" 

I  will  not  turn,  of  an  unpartial  historian,  an  engaged  person,  who, 
as  a  neighbour,  wish  welL  to  Chesthunt ;  as  a  parishioner,  better  to 
Waltham  ;  as  a  Christian,  best  to  both.  And  therefore  so  much  for 
matter  of  fact,  in  our  records  and  ledger-books,  leaving  all  matters 
of  right  for  others  to  decide^ 

21,  22.  Chesthunt  Nunnery  founded.     CopUHaU  poLssed  t& 
King  Henry  VIII. 

Meantime,  whilst  the  abbot  and  monks  of  Waltham  were  vexed 
vith  the  men  of  Chesthunt,  they  found  more  favour  (if  public  fame 
belies  them  not)  from  some  loving  women  in  that  parish  ;  I  mean, 
*  See  Godwin,  in  his  Bishops  of  Hereford.  t  Camden,  in  Oloncestershire. 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


266  HIStORt  OP  WALTHAM-ABBEY.  a.d.  153& 

the  holy  sisters  in  Chesthunt  nunnery,  whose  house  (whenever 
founded)  I  find,  some  ten  years  since,  thus  confirmed  by  royal 
authority : — Hmricusy  rex  Anglie^  domintia  Hyhemie^  dtix  Nor- 
Tnanie^  Aquitanie^  et  comes  Andegavie^  Sfc,  Sheeirehunt  moniales 
totam  terram  dom.  teneant  cum  pertinentik  auisque  canonicis  de 
catheky  S^c,  quos  amoveri  fecimus  datum  a^pud  West,  xL  Aug.  anno 
regni  nostri  xxiv.  But  this  subject  b^ns  to  swell  beyond  the 
bounds  intended  unto  it :  lest,  therefore,  what  we  intended  but  a 
tract  should  swell  to  a  tome,  we  will  here  descend  to  matters  of  later 
date. 

Only  be  it  premised,  that,  some  years  before  the  DissolutioDi 
Robert,  the  last  abbot  of  Waltham,  passed  over  the  fair  seat  of 
Copt-hall  unto  king  Henry  VIII.  Thus,  as  the  castor,  when  pur- 
sued by  the  hunter,  to  make  his  escape,  is  reported  to  bite  dff  his 
own  stones,  (as  the  main  treasure  sought  after,)  and  so  saves  his 
life  by  losing  a  limb ;  so  this  abbot  politicly  parted  with  that 
stately  mansion,  in  hope  thereby  to  preserve  the  rest  of  his  reve- 
nues. However,  all  would  not  do, — so  impossible  it  is  to  save 
what  is  designed  to  ruin  ;  and,  few  years  after,  the  abbey,  with  the 
large  lands  thereof,  were  seized  on  by  the  king,  and,  for  some 
months,  he  alone  stood  possessed  thereof. 


in.  THE  EXTRACTION,  CHARTER,  DEATH,  AND  ISSUE 
OF  SIR  ANTHONY  DENNY,  ON  WHOM  KING  HENRY 
VIII.  BESTOWED  WALTHAM-ABBEY. 

1 — 3.  A  Lease  of  Walthmn-Abbey  given  to  Sir  Anthony  Denny, 
John  Denny^  the  great  Soldier  in  France.  JSdmond  Benny, 
Baron  of  the  Exchequer. 

At  the  Dissolution,  king  Henry  bestowed  the  site  of  this  abbey, 
with  many  large  and  rich  lands  belonging  thereunto,  on  sir 
Anthony  Denny,  for  the  term  of  thirty-one  years.  Let  us  a  little 
inquire  into  his  extraction  and  descent. 

I  find  the  name  very  ancient  at  Chesterton,  in  Huntingdonshire,* 
where  the  heir-general  was  long  since  married  to  the  worshipful  and 
ancient  family  of  the  Bevils.  It  seems,  a  branch  of  the  male  line 
afterwards  fixed  in  Hertfordshire;  whereof  John  Denny,  esq. 
valiantly  served  Henry  V.  in  France,  where  he  was  slain,  and 
buried,  with  Thomas  his  second  son,  in  St.  Dionys's  chapel ;  their 
interment  in  so  noble  a  place  speaking  their  worthy  performances. 
In  the  reign  of  queen  Mary,  a  friar  showed  their  tombs  to  sir 

*  Speed,  or  rather  sir  Robert  Cotton,  in  JIuntingdonsliiie. 

DigitizefJ  by^OOQlC 


27HBNaT  vni.  HISTORY  OF  WALTHAM-ABBEY.  267 

Matthew  Carew,  together  with  their  coats  aod  differences.  Henry, 
eldest  son  of  this  John  Denny,  begat  William  Denny  of  Chest- 
hunt  in  Hertfordshire,  which  William  was  High  Sheriff  of  the 
county  in  the  year  1480,  leaving  Edmond  Denny  to  inherit  his 
estate. 

Edmond  Denny  was  one  of  the  barons  of  the  Exchequer,  in 
credit  and  favour  with  king  Edward  IV.  and  Henry  VII.  He 
married  Mary,  the  daughter  and  heir  of  Robert  Troutbeck,  esq. 
on  whom  he  begat  Thomas  Denny,  from  whom  the  Dennies  in 
Norfolk  are  descended. 

4k 
4 — 6.  Anthony  Denny*8  high  Commendations.    His  Epitaph  made 
by  the  Lord  Howard.    His  Issue  by  Dame  Joan  his  Wife. 

Anthony  Denny,  second  son  to  baron  Denny,  was  knighted  by 
king  Henry  VIII.  made  gentleman  of  his  bed-chamber,  privy- 
counsellor,  and  one  of  his  executors.  I  cannot  say  he  was  bred  any 
great  scholar,  but  find  him  a  Maecenas,  and  grand  &vourer  of 
leamed  men.  For,  when  the  school  of  Sedbury  [Sedberg]  in  the 
north,  belonging  to  St.  John'^s  in  Cambridge,  was  run  to  ruin,  the 
lands  thereof  being  sold  and  embezzled,  sir  Anthony  procured  the 
reparation  of  the  school,  and  restitution  of  their  means,  firmly  set- 
tling them,  to  prevent  future  alienation.*  Hear  what  character 
Mr.  Ascham  gives  of  him :  Rdigio^  doctrina^  reipublicaf  omnes 
euros  tttas  sic  occupanty  ut  eictra  has  tres  res  nullum  tempos  eon^ 
mmas;^  "Religion,  learning,  commonwealth,  so  employ  all  thy 
cares,  that  besides  these  three  things  you  spend  no  other  time." 
Let  then  the  enemies  (if  any)  of  his  memory  abate  of  this  character 
to  what  proportion  they  please,  (pretending  it  but  the  orator'*s  rhe- 
torical hyperbole,)  the  very  remainder  thereof,  which  their  malice 
must  leave,  will  be  sufficient  to  speak  sir  Anthony  a  worthy  and 
meriting  gentleman. 

I  find  an  excellent  epitaph  made  on  him  by  one  the  leamedest  of 
noblemen,  and  noblest  of  learned  men  in  his  age,  namely,  Henry 
Howard,  earl .  of  Surrey,  and  eldest  son  to  the  duke  of  Nwfolk, 
worthy  the  reader's  perusal : — 

UPON  THE  DEATH  OF  SIE  ANTHOKY  DENNY. 

Death  and  the  king  did,  as  it  were,  contend, 
Which  of  them  two  bare  Denny  greatest  love  : 

The  king,  to  show  his  love  'gan  far  extend. 
Did  him  advance  his  betters  far  above  : 

Near  place,  much  wealth,  great  honour  eke  him  gave, 

To  make  it  known  what  power  princes  have. 

•  AscHAMi  Commends  EpisL  fol.  210.  t  Idem,  fol.  208. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


268  HISTORY  OF  WALTHArM- ABBEY.  a.d.1542. 

But  when  Death  came  vnth  his  triumphant  gift, 
From  worldly  cark  he  quit  his  wearied  ghost 

Free  from  the  corps,  and  straight  to  heaven  it  lift.  ■ 
Now  deem  that  can,  who  did  for  Denny  most : — 

The  king  gave  wealth,  but  fading  and  unsure ; 

Death  brought  him  bliss  that  ever  shall  endure.* 

Know,  reader,  that  this  lord  made  this  epitaph  by  a  poetical  pra- 
lepsis ;  otherwise,  at  the  reading  thereof,  who  would'  not  conceive, 
that  the  author  surrived  the  subject  of  his  poem  !  Whereas  indeed 
this  Lord  died  (beheaded  1546)  in  the  reign  of  king^enry  VIII. 
whom  sir  Anthony  outlived,  being  one  of  the  executors  of  his  will. 
Nor  was  it  the  worst  piece  of  service  he  performed  to  his  master, 
when  (all  other  courtiers  declining  the  employment)  he  truly 
acquainted  him  with  his  dying  condition,  to  dispose  of  his  soul  for 
another  world. 

Sir  Anthony  died  about  the  second  of  Edward  VT.  dame  Joan 
his  wife  surviving  him.  Daughter  she  was  to  sir  PhiHp  Champer- 
noon,  of  Modbury  in  Devonshire ;  a  lady  of  great  beauty  and 
parts,  a  favourer  of  the  Reformed  religion  when  the  times  were^ 
most  dangerous.  She  sent  eight  shillings  by  her  man,  in  a  violet 
coat,  to  Anne  Aschough,-(- when  imprisoned  in  the  Counter;  [Comp- 
ter;]  a  small  sum,  yet  a  great  gift ;  so  hazardous  it  was  to  help 
any  in  her  condition.  This  lady  Joan  bought  the  reversion  in  fee 
of  Waltham  from  king  Edward  VI.  paying  three  thousand  and' 
• hundred*  pounds  for  the  same,  purchasing  therewith  large  pri- 
vileges in  Waltham-Forest,  as  by  the  letters  patents  doth  appear. 
She  bare  two  sons  to  sir  Anthony, — Henry  Denny,  esq.  of  whom 
hereafter ;  the  second,  sir  Edward,  who,  by  God's  blessing,  queen 
Elizabeth's  bounty,  and  his  own  valour,  achieved  a  fair  estate  in  tlie 
county  of  Kerry  in  Ireland  ;  which  at  this  day  is  (if  any  thing  in 
that  woful,  war-wasted  country  can  be)  enjoyed  by  his  great  grand- 
child-, Arthur  Denny,  es<][.  of  Tralleigh  [Tralee]. 


IT.  THE  CONDITION  OF  WALTHAM-CHURCH  FROM 
THE  DISSOLUTION  OF  THE  ABBEY  UNTIL  THE 
DEATH  OF  KING  HENRY  VIIL 

Having  the  perusal  of  the  churchwardens'  accounts,  wherein 
iheir  ancient  expenses  and  receipts  are  exactly  taken,  fairly  written^ 
and  carefully  kept,  I  shall  select  thence  some  memorable  items,  to 
acquaint  us  with  the  general  devotion  of  those  days. 

•  Weaver's  «  Fuperid  Monuments,"  page  852.  f  Fox's  "  Acta  and  Monu- 

ments/'. foL  1-239. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


U  HBNftT  Till.  DISTORT  OP  WALTBAM-ABBSTY.  269 

Know,  then,  there  were  six  ordinary  obits  which  the  churchward- 
ens did  annually  dischaige ;  namely.  For  Thomas  Smith,  and  Joan 
his  wife,  on  the  sixteenth  of  January :  For  Thomas  Friend,  Joan 
and  Joan  his  wives,  on  the  sixteenth  of  February :  For  Robert 
Peest,  and  Joan  his  wife,  on  the  tenth  of  April :  For  Thomas 
Towers,  and  Catherine  his  wife,  the  six-and-twentieth  of  April : 
For  John  Breges,  and  Agnes  his  wife,  the  one-and-thirtieth  of 
May :  For  Thomas  Turner,  and  Christian  his  wife,  the  twentieth 
day  of  December.  The  charge  of  an  obit  was  two  shillings  and 
two  pence ;  and,  if  any  be  curious  to  have  the  particulars  thereof, 
it  was  thus  expended : — To  the  parish-priest,  four  pence ;  to  our 
ladyVpriest,  three  pence ;  to  the  charnel-priest,  three  pence  ;  to  the 
two  clerks,  four  pence;  to  the  children,  ^these  I  conceive  choristers,) 
three  pence ;  to  the  sexton,  two  pence ;  to  the  bellman,  two  pence  ; 
for  two  tapers,  two  pence,;  for  oblation,  two  pence.  O  the  reason* 
able  rates  at  Waltham !  two  shillings  two  pence  for  an  obit,  the 
price  whereof  in  St.  PauFs  in  London  was  forty  shillings !  For 
(forsooth)  the  higher  the  church,  the  holier  the  service,  the  dearer 
the  price,  though  he  had  given  loo  much  that  had  given  but  thanks 
for  such  vanities. 

To  defiay  the  expenses  of  these  obits,  the  parties  prayed  for,  or 
their  executors,  left  lands,  houses,  or  stock,  to  the  churchwardens. 
Thomas  Smith  bequeathed  a  tenement  in  the  commarket,  and 
others  .^ve  lands  in  Upshire,  called  Paternoster-Hills ;  others, 
ground  elsewlberet,  besides  a  stock  of  eighteen  cows,  which  the  war- 
dens let  out  yearly  to  farm  for  eighteen  shillings,  making  up  theur 
yearly  accounts  at  the  feast  of  Michael  the  archangel,  out  of  which 
we  have  excerpted  the  following  remarkable  particulars. 

Anno  1542,  the  Thirty-Fourth  of  Henry  VIII. 

"  Imprimis.  For  watching  the  sepulchre,  -sl  groat.*" — This  con- 
stantly returns  in  every  yearly  account ;  though  what  meant  thereby, 
I  know  not.  I  could  ^suspect  some  ceremony  on  Easter-eve,  in 
imitation  of  the  soldiers'  watching  Christ's  grave ;  but  am  loath  to 
charge  that  age  with  more  superstition  than  it  was  clearly  guilty  of. 

<<  Item^  Paid  to  the  ringers  at  the  coming  of  the  king's  Orace,  six 
pence." — Yet  Waltham  bells  told  no  tales  every  time  king  Henry 
came  hither,  baving  a«mall  house  in  Bome-land,  to  which  he  is  said 
<ift  privately  to  retire,  for  his  pleasure. 

*^Item,  Paid  unto  two  men  of  law  for  their  counsel  about  the 
cliurch-leases,  six  shillings  eight  pence.^ 

"  Item,  Paid  the  attorney  for  his  fee,  twenty  pence." 

"  Item,  Paid  for  ringing  at  the  prince's  coming,  a  penny." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


270  HISTORY  OF  WALTHAM-ABBEY.  a.d.  1549. 

Anno  1543,  the  Thirty-Fifth  ofHmry  VI I  I. 

"  Imprimis.  Received  of  the  executors  of  sir  Robert  Fuller, 
given  by  tbe  said  sir  Robert  to  the  church,  ten  pounds.*" — How  is 
this  man  degraded  from  "  the  Right  Honourable  the  Lord  Abbot 
of  Waltham,  (the  last  in  that  place,)  to  become  a  poor  sir  Robert, 
the  title  of  the  meanest  jMiest  in  that  age.  Yet  such  his  charity  in 
bis  poverty,  that,  besides  this  legacy,  he  bequeathed  to  the  church  a 
chalice,  silver  and  gilt,  which  they  afterwards  sold  for  seven 
pounds.* 

Anno  1544,  the  Thirty-Sixth  of  Henry  VIII. 

'^  Imprimis.  Received  of  Adam  Tanner  the  overplus  of  tLe 
money  which  was  gathered  for  the  purchase  of  the  bells,  two  pound 
four  shillings  and  eleven  pence." — It  seems,  the  king'*s  officers  sold, 
and  the  parish  then  purchased,  the  five  bells,  being  great  and 
tunable,  (who,  as  they  gave  tountifully,  so  I  presume  they  bought 
reasonably,)  and  the  surplusage  of  the  money  was  delivered. 

^^  Item^  Received  of  Richard  Tanner,  for  eight  stoles,  three 
shillings.'' — A  stole  was  a  vestment  which  the  priest  used.  Surely 
thege  were  much  worn,  and  very  rags  of  popery,  as  sold  for  four 
pence  half-penny  a-piece.  It  seems,  the  churchwardens  were  not  so 
charitable  to  give  away — ^nor  so  superstitious  to  burn — ^but  so 
thrifty  as  to  make  profit  by  sale  of — these  decayed  vestments. 

"  Item^  Paid  for  mending  the  hand-bell,  two  pence.*" — This  was 
not  fixed,  as  the  rest,  in  any  place  of  church  or  steeple,  but  (being 
a  diminutive  of  the  saints'-bell)  was  carried  in  the  sexton's  hands  at 
the  circumgestation  of  the  sacrament,  the  visitation  of  the  sick,  and 
such  like  occasions. 

"  Item^  Paid  to  Philip  Wright,  carpenter,  for  making  a  frame  in 
the  bellfrey,  eighteen  shillings  four  pence." — The  bells,  being 
bought  by  the  parishioners,  were  taken  down  out  of  the  decayed 
steeple  ;  and  we  shall  afterwards  see  what  became  thereof.  Mean- 
time, a  timber-frame  was  made,  which  the  aged  of  the  last  genera- 
tion easily  remembered,  in  the  south-east  end  of  the  churchyard, 
where  now  two  yew-trees  stand,  and  a  shift  made  for  some  years  to 
hang  the  bells  thereon. 

Anno  1546,  the  Thirty-Eighth  ofHmryVIII. 

"  Item^  For  clasps  to  hold  up  the  banners  in  the  body  of  the 
church,  eight  pence." — By  these,  I  understand,  not  pennons  with 
arms  hanging  over  the  graves  of  interred  gentlemen,  but,  rather, 
some  superstitious  streamers^  usually  carried  about  in  procession. 

•  The  Clinrchwardens'  Accoimt,  anno  1666. 

*  Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


3  EDWARD  yi.  HISTOEY  OF  WALTHAM-ABBEY.  271 

''  Item^  Paid  to  JoLn  Boston  for  mending  the  organs,  twentie 
pence.^ 


V.  THE  STATE  OF  WALTHAM-CHURCH  DUBINQ  THE 
REIGN  OF  KING  EDWARD  VI. 

<'  Old  things  are  passed  avay,  behold,  all  things  now  are  become 
new  !^  Superstition  by  degrees  being  banished  out  of  the  church, 
we  hear  no  more  of  prayers,  and  masses  for  the  dead.  Every  obit 
now  had  its  own  obit,  and  fully  expired ;  the  lands  formerly  given 
thereunto  being  employed  to  more  charitable  uses.  But  let  us 
select  some  particulars  of  the  churchwardens'"  accounts  in  this  king^s 
days.    ^ 

Anno  1549,  the  Third  ofE&vcard  VL 

"  Imprimis.  Sold  the  silver  plate  which  was  on  the  desk  in  the 
ckamel^  [?]  weighing  five  ounces,  for  twenty-five  shillings.'^— 
Guess  the  gallantry  of  our  church  by  this,  (presuming  all  the  rest 
in  proportionable  equipage,)  when  the  desk,  whereon  the  priest 
read,  was  inlaid  with  plate  of  silver. 

"  Item^  Sold  a  rod  of  iron,  which  the  curtain  run  upon  before 
the  rood,  nine  pence.'' — The  rood  was  an  image  of  Christ  on  the 
cross,  made  generally  of  wood,  and  erected  in  a  loft  for  that  pur- 
pose, just  over  the  passage  out  of  the  church  into  the  chancel. 
And  wot  you  ^hat  spiritual  mystery  was  couched  in  this  position 
thereof?  The  church  (forsooth)  typified  the  church  militant,  the 
chancel  represents  the  church  triumphant ;  and  all  who  will  pass 
out  of  the  former  into  the  latter,  must  go  under  the  rood-loft ;  that 
is,  carry  the  cross,  and  be  acquainted  with  affliction.  I  add  this 
the  rather,  because  Harpsfield,*  that  great  scholar,  who  might  be 
presumed  knowing-  in  his  own  art  of  superstition,  oonfesseth  himself 
ignorant  of  the  reason  of  the  rood-situation. 

"  Itemy  Sold  so  much  wax  as  amounted  to  twenty-six  shillings.'' 
— So  thrifty  the  wardens,  that  they  bought  not  candles  and  tapers 
ready  made,  but  bought  the  wax  at  the  best  hand,  and  paid  poor 
people  for  the  making  of  them.  Now  they  sold  their  magazine  of 
^ax  as  useless.  Under  the  Reformation^  more  light  and  fewer 
candles. 

"  Itemy  Paid  for  half  of  the  book  called  Paraphrase,  five  shil- 
lings."— ^By  the  seventh  injunction  of  king  Edward,  each  parish 
was  to  procure  "the  Paraphrase  of  Erasmus,"  namely,  the  first  part 
thereof  on  the  Gospels,  and  the  same  to  be  set  up  in  some  conve- 
nient place  in  the  church. 

•  Fox's  «  Acts  and  Monuments,"  in  the  examination  of  Thomas  Hawks,  page  1590. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


272  HISTOEY  OF  WALTHAM-ABBKY.  .     a.d.  IBdii 

<<  Item,  Spent  in  the  visitation  at  Chelmsford,  amongst  the 
wardens  and  other  honest  men,  fourteen  shillings  four  pence.^ — ^A 
round  sum,  I  assure  you,  in  those  days.  This  was  the  first  visita- 
tion (kept  by  Nicholas  Ridley,  newly  bishop  of  London)  whereat 
Waltham-wardens  ever  appeared  out  of  thm  own  town,  whose 
abbot  formerly  had  episcopal  jurisdiction. 

Anno  1551,  the  Fifth  of  Edward  VL 
"  Imprimis,  Received  for  a  knell  of  a  servant  to  the  lady  Mary 
her  Grace,  ten  pencei^ — Copt  Hall  in  this  parish  being  then  in  the 
Crown,  the  lady  (afterwards  queen)  Mary  came  thither  sometimes, 
to  take  the  air  probably ;  during  whose  residence  tliere,  this  lier 
servant  died.^ 

"  Itemy  Lost  forty-six  shillings  by  reason  of  the  fall  of  money  by 
proclamation.^ — King  Henry  much  debased  the  English  coin,  to 
his  own  gain  and  the  land^s  loss,  (if  sovereigns  may  be  said  to  get 
by  the  damage  of  their  subjects,)  yet  all  would  not  do  to  pay  his 
debts.  His  son  Edward  endeavoured  to  reduce  the  coin  to  its  true 
standard,  decrying  bad  money  by  his  proclamation,  to  the  intrinsic 
value  thereof.  But,  prevented  by  death,  he  effected  not  this  diffi- 
cult design ;  (adultery  in  men,  and  adulterateness  in  money,  both 
hardly  reclaimed  4)  which  was  afterwards  completed  by  the  care  of 
queen  Elizabeth. 

"  Itemy  Received  for  two  hundred  seventy-one  ounces  of  plate, 
sold  at  several  times,  for  the  best  advantage,  sixty-seven  pound 
fourteen  shillings  and  nine  pence.^'' — ^Now  was  the  brotherhood  in 
the  church  dissolved,  consisting  as  formerly  of-  three  priests,  three 
choristers,  and  two  sextons ;  and  the  rich  plate  belonging  to  them 
was  sold  for  the  good  of  the  parish*  Ji  may  seem  strange  the 
king''s  commissioners,  deputed  for  that  purpose,  seized  not  on  it, 
from  whose  hand^  Waltham  found  some  favour,  (befriended  by  the 
lord  Rich,  their  countryman,)  the  rather  because  of  iheir  inten- 
tions to  build  their  decayed  steeple. 


VI.    CHURCH- ALTERATIONS  IN  THE  REIGN  OF  <iUEEN 

MARY. 

«Nirw  lady  new  laws."  Now  strange  the  metamorphosis  in 
Waltham.  Condemn  not  this  our  cosmography,  or  description  of 
a  country-town,  as  too  low  and  narrow  a  subject ;  seeing,  in  some 
sort,  the  History  of  Waltham-church  is  the  Church-History  of 
England, — all  parishes  in  that  age  being  infected  alike  with  super- 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


i  MABT.  HISTORY  OF  WALTHAM-ABBfiY.  273 

stition.  Nor  intend  I  hereby  to  renew  the  memory  of  idolatry,  but 
to  revive  our  gratitnde  to  Ood  for  the  abolishing  thereof,  whose 
numerous  triidcetar^^ere  ensue. 

Anno  15S4,  Mariwprimo. 

"  Imprimis.  For  a  cross  with  a  foot,  copper  and  gilt,  twenlie-five 
shillingsr" 

^^  Item^'YoT  a.  doss-staff,  copper  and  gilt,  nine  shillings  and  four 
pence.'* 

"/ifitfw.  For  a  pax,  copper  and.  gilt,  five  shillings.'^ — "Greet  one 
another,'' saith  St.  Paul,  "with  an  holy  kiss,'^!  Cor.  xvi.  20;  on 
which  words  of  the  apostle  the  pax  had  its  original.  ^  This  cere- 
mony, performed  in  ^e  prinaitive  times  and  eastern  countries,  was 
afterwards  (to  prevent  wantonness,  and  to  make  the  more  expedi- 
tion) commuted  into  a  new  custom,  namely,  a  piece  of  wood  or 
metal  (with  Christ's  picture  thereon)  was  made,  and  solemnly  ten- 
dered to  all  people  to  kiss.  This  was  called  ihtpax^  or  "  peace," 
to  show  the  unity  and  amity  of  all  there  assembled,  ifrho,  though 
not  immediately,  by  Ihe.  proxy  of  the  pax,  kissed  one-another. 

"  Item^  For  a  pair  of.  censers,  copper  and  g^dt,  nine  shillings  and 
eight  pencef-— These  were  pots,  in  Ihe  which  frankincense  was 
burned,  peffunung  the  church  during  divine  service. 

"  Item^  For  a  stock  of  brass  for  the  holy-water,  seven  shillings." 
—Which,  by  the  canon,  must  be  of  marble,  or  metal,  and  in  no 
case  of  brick,*  lest  the  sacred  liquor  be  sucked  up  by  the  spungi- 
ness  thereof. 

"  /few,  For  a  chrismatory  of  pewter,  three  shillings  four  pence." 
—This  was  a  vessel  in  which  .die  consecrated  oil,  used  in  baptism, 
confirmation,  and.extreme  unction,  was  deposited. 

"  Item^  For  a  yard  of  silver  sarcenet  for  a  cloth  for  the  sacra- 
ment, seven  shillings  eight  pence." — Here  some  silkman  or  mercer 
must  satisfy  us  what  this  was.  The  price  seems  too  low  for  sarce- 
net inwoyenwiith  silver,  and  too  high  for  plain  sarcenet  of  a  silver 
colour. 

"/itefw,  For  a  pix  of  pewter,  two  shillings."— This  was  a  box 
wherein  the  host,  or  consecrated  wafer,  was  put  and  preserved. 

''^  Item^  For  Mary  and  John,  that  stand  in  the  rood-loft,  twentiei- 
six  shillings  ejght  pence." — "Christ  on  lite  cross. saw  his  mother, 
and  Uie  disciple  whom  he  loved  .standing  by,'"  John  xix.  26,  &c. 
In  apish  imitation  whereof  the  rood,  when  perfectly  made  with  ali 
the  appurtenances  thereof,  was  attendeid  with  these  two  images. 

"/i^e3».  For  washing  eleven  aubes  and  as  many  head-clothes,  six 


*,  Dd  RANT  us,  Be  Rktibut  EccleM.  nam.  6,  paga  173. 

/Google 


Digitized  by  ^ 


274  HISTORY  OF  WALTHAM-ABBEY.  a.d.  1562. 

pence.'' J-An  aube,  or  albe,  was  a  priest's  garment  of  i^hite  linen 
down  to  their  feet>  girded  about  his  middle,.  The  thin  matter 
denoted  simplicity ;  colour,  purity ;  length,  (deep  divinity !  *) 
perseverance;  and  the  cincture  thereof  signified  the  person  v?earing 
it  prompt  and  prepared  f<yr  God*s  service.  Their  head-clothes  verc 
like  our  Serjeants'  coifs,  but  close,  and  not  turned  up. 

'^  Itemy  For  watching  the  sepulchre,  eight  pence." — Thus  the 
price  of  that  service  (but  a  groat  in  king  Henry's  days)  was  doubled. 
However,  though  popery  was  restored  to  its  kind,  yet  was  it  not 
re-estated  in  its  former  degree,  in  the  short  reign  of  queen  Mary. 
For  we  find  no  mention  of  the  former  six  obits  anniversarily  per- 
formed ;  the  lands  for  whose  maintenance  were  alienated  in  tlie 
reign  of  kiig  Edward,  and  the*  vicar  of  the  parish  not  so  charitable 
as  to  celebrate  these  obits  gratis,  without  any  reward  for  the  same. 

"  Item,  For  a  processioner,  and  a  manual,  twenty  pence." 

"  Item,  For  a  corporas-cloth,  twelve  pence." — This  was  a  linen 
cloth  laid  over  or  under  the  t^onsecrated  host. 

"  Item^  To  the  apparitor,  for  the  bishop's  book  of -articles  at  the 
visitation,  six^pence." — This  bishop  was  bloody  Bonner,  that  cor- 
pulent tyrant,  full  (as  one  sard)  of  guts  and  empty  of  bowels;  vho 
visited  his  diocess  before  it  was  sick,  and  made  it  sick  with  bis 
visitation.  His  articles  were  in  number  thirty-seven,  and  John 
Bale  wrote  .a  book  against  them.-f-  The  bishop's  chief  care  herein 
was  the  setting  up  of  complete  roods,  commonly  called  (but  when 
without  his  ear-reach)  "Bonner's  Block- Almighty."  If  any  refused 
to  provide  such  blocks  for  him,  let  them  expect  he  would  procure 
£iggots  for  them. 

Anno  1556,  Mariw  tertio. 

"  Imprimis.  For  ooles  to  undermine  a  piece  of  the  steeple  which 
stood  after  the  first  fall,  two  shillings."— This  steeple  formerly 
stood  in  the  middle  (now  east  end)  of  the  church ;  and,  being 
ruined  past  possibility  of  repair,  fell  down  of  itself,  only  a  remain- 
ing part  was  blown  up  by  underminers.  How  quickly  can  a  fcN^ 
destroy  what  required  the  age  and  industry  of  many  in  long  time  to 
raise  and  advance ! 

It  soundeth  not  a  little  to  the  praise  of  this  parish,  that,  neither 
burdensome  nor  beholding  to  the  yicinage  for  a  collection,  they 
rebuilt  the  steeple  at  the  west  end  of  tlie  church  on  their  own  pro- 
per cost,  enabled  thereunto,  partly  by  their  stock  in  the  church-box, 
arising  from  the  sale  (as  is  aforesaid)  of  the  goods-  of  the  brother- 
hood, and  partly  by  the  voluntary  contribution  of  the  parishioners. 

•  DuRANTus,  De  RitUms  Eccles,  nmn.  9,  page  31 6.  t  Fox's  "  Acts  and 

Monuments/'  page  1474. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


6  BLiZABtTH.  HISTORY  OF  WALTHAM- ABBEY.  275 

This  tower-sleeple  is  eighty-six  feet  high  from  the  foundation  to  the 
battlements,  each  foot  whereof  (besides  the  materials  pre-prorided) 
costing  thirty-three  shillings  four  pence  the  bnilding.*  Three  years 
passed  from  the  founding  to  the  finishing  thereof,  (erery  year'^swoik 
discernible  by  the  discolouration  of  the  stones,)  and  the  parish  was 
forced,  for  the  perfecting  of  the  building,  to  sell  their  belk,  hanging 
before  in  a  wooden  frame  in  the  churchyard  ;  so  that  Waltham, 
which  formerly  had  steeple-lesa  bells,  now  had  for  some  years  a 
bell-Iess  steeple. 


VII.    THE    OONDmON   OF  THE   CHURCTII    FROM   THE 
BEGINNING  OF  QUEEN  ELIZABETH  TO  THIS  DAY. 

In  eleren  full  years,  namely,  from  the  last  of  king  Henry  VII I • 

.  anno  1547,  tQl  the  first  of  queen  Elizabeth,  1558,  this  church 

found  four  changes  in  religion ;  papist,  and  protestant ;  papist,  and 

protestant  again.    The  last  turn  will  appear  by  the  wardens^  fdlow* 

ing  accounts* 

1.  Anno  1558,  Elizabethce  jprimo. 

"  Imprimis,  For  the  taking  down  of  the  rood-loft,  three  shillings 
two  pence.^-'— If  then,  there  living  and  able,  I  hope  I  should  hare 
lent  an  helping  hand  to  s^  good  a  work,  as  now  I  bestow  my 
prayers,  that  the  like  may  never  in  England  be  set  up  again. 

"/if^w,  Received  for  a  suite  of  vestments,. being  of  blew  velvet, 
and  another  suite  of  damask,  and  an  altar-cloth,  four  pound."^ 

"  IteiUy  For  three  corporasses,  where6f  two  white  sUk,  and  one 
blew  velvet,  two  pound  thirteen  shillings  four  pence.'' 

^^  Item^  For  two  suits  of  vestments,  and  an  altar-cloth,  three 
pound." — Now  was  the  superstitious  wardrobe  dispersed,  and  that 
(no  doubt)  sold  for  shillings  which  cost  pounds.  They  were  beheld 
as  the  garments  spotted  with  sin,  and  therefore  the  less  pity  to  part 
^ith  them.     But  see  what  foUoweth, 

2.  Anno  1562,  ElizahethoB  quinto, 

"  Item^  For  a  cloth  of  buckeram  for  the  communion-table,  and 
the  making,  four  shillings?' — Having  sold  so  much,  could  they  not 
afford  a  better  carpet  ?  Is  there  no  mean  betwixt  painting  a  face, 
and  not  washing  it?     He  must  have  a  fixed  aim  and  strong  hand, 

•The  thirty-tliree  feet  on  the  top  (difficulty  and  danger  of  climbing  made  it  the 
dearer)  cost  forty  ghillinga  a  foot,  as  appeareth.  by  the  churchwardens'  accounts,  anno 

1663. 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ IC 


276  HISTORY  OF  WALTHAM-ABBEY.  a. d.  1563. 

who  hits  decency,  and  misseth  gaudiness  and  sluttery.  But  there 
is  a  generation  of  people  who  over-do,  in  the  spirit  of  opposition : 
such  conceive  that  a  trestle  is  good  enough  for  God's  table ;  and 
fuch  a  table,  covering  epough  for  Jtself. 

"  Item^  For  lattices  for  the  church-windows,  fifteen  shillings.''— 
Fain  would  I,  for  the  credit  of  our  church,  by  lattices  understand 
"  casements,''  if  the  word  would  bear  it.  Y«t  surely  it  was  not  for 
covetousness  wholly  to  spare  glazings l^utvthrift  to  preserve  the  glass, 
that  these  lattices  did  fence  them  on  the  outside. 

"  Item^  Paid  for  a  bay  nagge,  given  to  Mr.  Henry  Denny  for 
the  abby  wall,  three  pound  seventeen  shillings." — This  nag  was 
rather  a  thankful  acknowledgment  of  Mr.  Denny's  propriety,  than 
a^just  vrfuation  of  *what  ithe  paxish  received  from  himj  for  it  fol- 
loweth,— 

"  Item^  To  labourers  which  did  undermine  the  said  wall,  forty- 
ftve  i§hillmgs  nine  pence.^'— What  then  may  the  materials  of  that 
wall  be  presumed  worth  in  themselves  ?  J  conceive  this  was  a 
building  which^ranged  east  -beyond  the  old  steeple,  the  demolishing 
whereof  brought  much  profit  to  the  parish,  whose  wardens  for  some 
years  drave  a  great  trade  in  the  sale  of  lead,  stone,  and  timber,  all 
devoured  in  the  roofing,  flooring,  and  finishing  of  their  steeple. 

*  -8.  Anno  ISOS^^Mizabethce  sexto. 

**  Imprimis.  Tor  an  61d  house  in  the  old  market-place,  thirteen 
pound  six  shillings  eight  pence?' — This  tenement,  low-rented, 
yielded  annually  nine  Shillings.  Now  the  parish  sold  it,  and  ano- 
ther house  in  West-street,  outright ;  letting  leases  also  of  their 
other  church-lands  for  twenty-one  years.  Such  bargains  made  a 
feaat  for  the  present  age,  and  a  famine  for  posterity. 

"  Item,  For  the  old  timber  in  the  little  vestiaiy  of  St.  George's 
chappel,  fifteen  shiHings.^—3n  vain  have  1  inquired  for  the  situa- 
tion hereof,  long  since  'demolished  ;  and  no  wonder  if  St.  Geoige's 
chapel  cannot  be  found,  i«^hen  St.  George  himself  is  aflSrmed  by 
some  as  one  never  existent  mremm  nuturd.* 

"  Itemy  Received  of  Mr.  Denny,'for  one  cope  of  cloth  of  ^old, 
three  pound  six  shillings  eight  pence." 

"  Item^  For  two  altar-cloalhs  of  velvet  and  silk,  two  pound."'- 
It  seemeth  the  parish  dJd  not  part  with  all  their  gallantry  at  once, 
but  made  several  st&kes  thereof,  and  parcelled  them  out  as  their 
necessities  did  require. 

"  Item^  Received  of  Mr.  Tamworth  twenty  loads  of  timber  ready 
hewed^  which  he. gave  to  the  parish." — This  gentleman,  by  his 

•  Phil»pus  Melancthon  in  ^polojfia,  Articulo  21,  Con/etsionu  AuguHana. 

■      .  Digitized  by  LjOOQIC 


6  ELIZABETH.  HISTORY  OF  WALTHAH-ABBET.  277 

bounty  to  the  public,  seems  better  known  to  Ood  than  to  me, 
having  neither  heard  nor  read  of  any  of  Kis  name  living  in  or  near 
to  Waltham. 

^^  Item^  For  taking  down  the  stairs  in  the  abby,  seven  shillings 
eight  pence.** — This  was  part  of  the  nag-purchase,  whereby  we  col- 
lect, Ihat^  a  kige  structure  was  by  this  ^bargain  conveyed  to  the 


^'It&mt  For  taking  down  the  lead  from  the  ehamd-hovse,  and 
covering  the  steeple,  eighteen  shillings.**^ — The  steeple  was  con-> 
ceived  above  the  charnel-house  as  in  height  so  in  honour*  Where- 
fore  now  the  lead  taken  from  it  was  translated  to  the  covering  of 
the  steeple.*  Gall  this  removing  of  this  metal  from  one  part  of  the 
church  to  another,  only  the  borrowing  of  St^  Peter  ta  lend  to  St« 
Paul. 

^^  Item^  For  the  archdeacon^s  man  coming  for  a  record  of  all  the 
inhabitants  of  the  parish,  .four  pence.^-— I  know  not  on  what  canon 
this  was  founded.  It  may  be,  her  majesty  in  those  dangerous  timea 
desired  (not  out  of  pride,  but  necessary  policy)  to  know  the  number 
of  her  subjects,  and  might  enjoin. the  archdeacons,  in  their  respect* 
ive  visitations,  to  make  this  inquiry. 

^  5.  ffiffh  Time  to  knock  off.    Jhmes  Earl  of  CarlMe  present 
Owner  of  Waltham. 

But  dlTfr  begbff  to  dawn$  and  the  light  of  our  age  to  appear, 
matters  coming  within  the  memory  of  many  alii^.  We  will  tbere^ 
fore  break  off;  Waltham,  since,  affording  no  peculiar  observables  ; 
only  will  add,  that  sir  Edward  (grandchild  to  sir  Anthony)  Denny 
vas  created,  by,  king- James,  baron  of  Waltham,-(' and  since  made^ 
bj  king  Charles,  earl  of  Norwich  :  a  noble  person,  who  settled  on 
the  curate  of  Waltham  (to  whom  before  a  bare  stipend  of  eight 
pounds  did  belong)  one  hundred  pounds  per  annum^  with  some 
other  considerable  accommodations,  tying  good  land  for  the  true 
performance  thereof. 

The  abbey  is  now  the  inheritance  of  this  earFs  grandchild,  (by 
Honora  his  daughter,)  James  Hay,  earl  of  Carlisle,  who  married 
Margaret,  daughter  to  Francis,  earl  of  Bedford,  by  whom  as  yet  he 
Lath  no  issue  ;  for  the  continuance  of  whose  happiness  my  prayers 
shall  never  be  wanting. 

6 — 8.  Nicholas  the  most  eminent  Abbot  of  Waltham.    John  de 

Waltham.    Roger  Waltham  a  learned  Writer. 
The  reader  may  justly  expect  from  me  a  catalogue  of  all  the 
abbots  of  this  monastery^    But  to  do  \i  falsely^  I  dare  not ;  lamely^, 

*  Which  is  now  hut  tiled.  t  Camden's  BriUmnia,  in  Essex. 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ IC 


278  HISTORY  OF  WALTHAM- ABBEY.  a.d.  1641. 

I  would  not ;  perfectly^  I  cannot ;  and  therefore  must  crave  to  be 
excused.  Only  let  me  observe,  that  Nicholas  abbot  of  Waltham 
was  most  triumphant  in  power  of  any  in  his  place.  He  flourished 
in  the  reign  of  king  Richard  II.  and  was  one  of  the  fourteen 
commissioners,  chosen  by  Parliament,  to  examine  the  miscarriages 
in  that  king^s  reign  since  the  death  of  his  grandfather.* 

Amongst  the  natives  of  Waltham,  for  statesmen  John  de  Walt- 
ham  bears  away  the  bell.  He  was  Keeper  of  the  Privy  Seal  in 
the  reign  of  king  Richard  IL  being  the  third  in  number  chosen 
amongst  the  fourteen  commissioners  aforesaid,  empowered  to  exa- 
miije  all  misdemeanours  of  state.i"  And  now  was  not  Waltham 
highly  honoured  with  more  than  a  single  shai^e,  when,  amongst 
those  fourteen,  two  were  her  gremials,  the  fore-nan^ed  Nicholas 
living  in  Waltham,  and  this  John  having  his  name  thence,  because 
birth  therein  ? 

But  amongst  scholars  in  our  town,  Roger  Waltham  must  not  be 
forgotten,  canon  of  St.  PauPs  in  London,  and  a  great  favourite  to 
Fulk  Basset,  bishop  thereof.  He  wrote  many  learned  books, 
whereof  two  especially  (one  called  Compendium  Morale^  the  other. 
Imagines  Oratorum)  commend  his  parts  and  pains  to  posterity  .J 

9, 10.  Htbgh  NemUe  buried  in  WaUham ;  and  also  Bobert 
PasseUew. 

Pass  we  from  those  who  were  bom,  to  eminent:  persons  buried, 
therein.  Here  we  first  meet  with  Hugh  Neville,  a  minion  of  king 
Richard  L.  He  was  interred  in  Waltham  church,  aaith  my  a\Lthor,§ 
in  nobili  aarcopkago  marmoreo  et  imcutpto^  '^  in  a  noble  coffin  of 
marble  engraved.''  If  a  coffin  be  called  mrcophagus^  (from  con- 
suming the  corpse,)  surely  sacrilege  may  be  named  sarcophagq- 
phaguSy  which  at  this  day  hath  devoured  that  coffin,  and  all  belong- 
ing thereunto. 

We  spoil  all,  if  we  forget  Robert  Passellew,  who  was  dominua 
fac  totum  in  the  middle — and  foe  nihil  towards  the  end — of  the 
reign  of  Henry  III.  Some  parasites  extolled  him  by  allusion  to 
his  name,  pass-le-eau^  (that  is,  "  passing  the  pure  water,'')  the  wits 
of  those  days  thus  descanting  upon,  him  : — 

Est  aqua  lenis^  ei  est  aqua  dulcis^  et  est  aqua  clara^ 
Tu  prcecellis  aquam^  namhni  lenior  es  tu^ 
Duici  dulcior  es  tu^  clara  clarior  es  tu  ; 
Mente  quidem  lenisy  re  dulcisj  sanguine  clarus.  \\ 

•  Hen.  de  Knighton,  De  Eventi&ua  AngU  lib.  v.  page  2687.  t  Ibid,  utpriiu, 

page  2686.  J  Bale,  De  Script.  Brit.  cent.  iv.  page  302.  §  Matthew- 

Paris,  in  anno  1222,  page  315.  i|  Collection  of  Mr.  Camden's  mss.  in  sir  Thoma» 

Cctton's  library. 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


cflARUB  I.  HISTORY  OF  WALTHAM-ABBET.  279 

Bat  such  who  flattered  him  the  fastest  whilst  in  fiivour,  mocked  him 
the  most  in  misery;  aod  at  last  he  died  in  his  own  house  in 
Waltham,  and  was  buried  in  the  abbey-church  therein.* 

11, 12.  A  Heap  ofDiffieuUiei  ecut  toffetk&r.    Qumes  m  Querie$. 

And  now,  because  we  have  so  often  cited  Matthew  Paris,  I 
never  met  with  more  difficulties  in  six  lines,  than  what  I  find  in 
him ;  which,  because  nearly  relating  to  this  present  subject,  I 
thought  fit  to  exemplify: — Eodemque  anno^  videlicet  in  crcuHnb 
Sancti  Michaelis  dedioata  est  ecdesia  eonventtiaKs  canonicarum  de 
WaUham^  ab  episcopo  Narmcensi  Wittidmo^  soUmniter  valdi^ 
(mistentibm  aliis  plurimis  qnsccpisy  prcelcUis^  et  magndtihm  vene- 
rabilibusj  statim  post  dedicationem  ecclesiw  Sancti  Pauli  Londi- 
n€nsisy  ut  peregrinantes  kino  ind^  indistanter  remearent.'^MAT' 
THEw  Paris,  in  anno  1242,  p.  595.  "  And  in  the  same  year, 
namely,  the  morrow  after  St.  Michael's  day,  the  conventual  church 
of  the  canons  at  Waltham  was  dedicated  by  William  bishop  of 
Norwich  very  solemnly,  many  other  bishops,  prelates,  and  vene- 
mble  peers  assisting  him,  presently  after  the  dedication  of  St. 
Paul's  in  London  ;  that  pilgrims  and  travellers  up  and  down  might 
indistantly  retum.*"-  It  is  clear,  our  church  of  Waltham-Abbey  is 
intended  herein,  England  affording  no  other  conventual  church.'f 

This  bemg  granted,  1.  How  comes  Waltham  church,  built  by 
Harold  two  hundred  years  before,  now  to  be  first  dedicated ;  that 
age  accounting  it  as  faulty  and  &tal  to  defer  the  consecration  of 
churches,  as  the  christening  of  children  ?  2.  What  made  the 
bishop  of  Norwich  to  meddle  therewith  ?  an  office  more  proper  for 
the  bishop  of  London  to  perform,  Waltham  being  (though  not 
under)  in  his  jurisdiction.  3.  What  is  meant  by  the  barbarous 
word  indistanter  ?  and  what  benefit  accrued  to  travellers  thereby  ? 
I  will  not  so  much  as  conjecture,  as  unwilling  to  draw  my  bow 
where  I  despair  to  hit  the  mark,  but  leave  all  to  the  judgment  of 
others.    But  I  grow  tedious,  and  will  therefore  conclude.  . 

13—15.  King  Charles's  last  Coming  to  Waltham.     Conditionally 
granteth  the  Repairing  of  the  Chwrch  ;  but  it  miscarrieth. 

Anno  1641,  king  Charles  came  the  last  time  to  Waltham,  and 
went,  as  he  was  wont  where  any  thing  remarkable,  to  see  the 
church,  the  earl  of  Carlisle  attending  him.  His  majesty  told  hira, 
that  he  divided  his  cathedral  churches,  as  he  did  his  royal  ships, 
into  three  ranks,  accounting  St.  PauPs  in  London,  York,  Lincoln, 
Winchester,  &c.  of  the  first  form  ;  Chichester,  Lichfield,  &c.  of  the 

•  Matthew  Paris,  anno  1252.  f  See  Speed's  "  Catalogue  of  Religious  Houaes." 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


230  HISTORY  OF  WALTHAM-ABBEY.  a.d.  1641. 

second ;  tbe  Welch  cathedrals  of  the  third,  with  which  Waltham 
church  may  be  well  compared,  especially  if  the^  roof  thereof  was 
taken  lower  and  leaded. 

The  earl  moved  his  majesty,  that,  seeing  this  ancient  church 
(founded  by  king  Harold  his  predecessor)  ^  was  fallen  into  such 
decay  that  the  repair  was  too  heavy  for  the  parish,  he  would  be 
pleased  to  grant  a  moderate  toll  of  cattle  coming.over  .the  bridge, 
(with  their  great  drifts  *  doing  much  damage  to  the  highways,) 
and  therewith  both  the  town  might  be  paved,  and  the  church 
repaired.  The  king  graciously  granted  it,  provided  it  were  doue 
with  the  privity  and  consent  of  a  great  prelate,  (not  so  safe  to  be 
named  as  easy  to  be  guessed,)  with  whom  he  consulted  in  all 
church-matters. 

But  when  the  foresaid  prelate  was  informed,  that  the  earl  bad 
applied  to  his  majesty  before  addresses  to  himself,  he  dashed  the 
design  ;  so  that  poor  Waltham  church  must  still  be  contented  with 
their  weak  walls,  and  worse  roof,  till  providence  procure  her  some 
better  benefactors.  As  for  the  arms  of  Waltham-Abbey,  being 
loath  to  set  them  alone,  I  have  joined  them  in  the  following 
draught,  with  the  arms  of  the  other  mitred  abbeys,  as  &r  as  idj 
industry  could  recover  them,  f 

SOLI    DEO    GLORIA. 


*  Modem -asage  prefers  <<  droves/'  though  both  words  are  derived  from  the  verb  '^to 
drive." — Edit. 

t  The  subjoined  is  one  of  the  two  *♦  Seals  of  Arms "  which  Fuller  has  given  to 
Wtatham;  the  other  appears  as  No.  14^  in  vol.  ii.  page  229  of  liis  <<Chiircb' 
Historyv"— Edit. 


'it 


ItT 


t 


W: 


^: 


Digitized  by 


Google 


THE  APPEAL 


INJURED    INNOCENCE, 


WTO 


THE  BELIGIOnS,  LEARNED,  AND  INGENUOUS  BEADEB. 


A  CONTROVERSY  BETWIXT 

THE  ANIMADVERTOR— Db.  PETER  HEYLIN, 

AKD 

THE  AUTHOR— THOMAS  FULLER. 


**  See  how  he  teeketh  »  qnairel  against  me." — 1  Kings  ▼.  7. 
Reapinuum  non  dictum  e*$,  quia  latit  prior.^TzREK'riVB  in  Eunucho, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


TO   THE 

RIGHT  HONOURABLE  GEORGE  BERKELEY, 

LORD  BERKELEY, 

MOUBRAY,  SEGRAVE,  AND  BRUCE, 

my  jiost  bountiful  and  most  exemplary  patron. 

Sir, 

My  Church-History  was  so  far  from  prostituting 
herself  to  mercenary  embraces,  she  did  not  at  all 
espouse  any  particular  interest,  but  kept  herself  a 
Virgin, 

However,  a  dragon  is  risen  up,  with  much  fierceness 
and  fory,  threatening  this  my  virgin's  destruction. 

Your  name  is  Grx)RGB,  and  for  you  it  is  as  easy  as 
honourable  to  protect  her  from  violence. 

If  any  material  falsehood  or  forgery  be  found  in  my 
book,  let  "  Liar "  be  branded  in  my  face.  But,  O ! 
suflFer  not  my  "  Injured  Innocence  "  to  be  overborne 
in  such  things,  which  I  have  truly,  cleariy,  and  warily 
written. 

Thus  shall  you  encourage  me  (leaving  off  such  con- 
troversial deviations  from  my  calling)  to  preach  and 
to  perform  in  my  ministerial  function  somewhat  worthy 
of  the  honour  to  be         ' 

Your  Lordship's  most  obliged 
servant  and  chaplain, 
THOMAS  FULLER. 

Cbanford  Moat-housb, 
March  the  2 1st. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


THE  APPEAL 


OF 


INJURED   INNOCENCE. 


PART  I. 
INTRODUCTION. 

COKTAINIXa 

FULLEE's  INTBODUCTION,  FOUETKEN  CMAPTEES  :  HtS  AKSWEft 
TO  DE-  HEYLTn's  TITLE-PAGE  TO  THE  "  GENERAL  PBE- 
FACE,''  TO  THE  ^  NECESSAEY  INTEODUCTION,^  AND  TO 
"  THE  ANIMADVEESIONS  ON  BOOK  I.  OF  THE  CHUBCH- 
HISTOEY    OF    BEITAIn/' 

CHAPTER  I. 

That  it  is  impossible  for  the  Pen  of  any  Historians^  writir^  in 
(as  ours)  a  divided  Age^  to  please  cdl  Parties^  and  how  easy 
it  is  to  cavil  at  any  Author. 

Such  as  lived  after  the  flood,  and  before  the  confusion  of 
tongues,  were  Bappy  in  this  particular, — ^that  they  did  hear  to 
understand,  and  speak  to  be  understood,  with  all  persons  in  their 
generation.  Not  such  their  felicity  who  lived  after  the  confiision 
of  languages  at  the  Tower  of  Babel^  when  the  eloquence  of  the  best 
was  but  barbarism  to  all,  save  a  few  folk  of  his  own  family^ 

Happy  those  English  historians  who  wrote  some  sixty  years  since, 
before  our  civil  distempers  were  bom  or  conceived ;  at  leastwise, 
before  there  were  house-burnings  (though  some  heart-burnings) 
amongst  us  ;  I  mean,  before  men^s  latent  animosities  broke  out  into 
openr  hostility  :  seeing  then  there  was  a  general  right  understanding 
betwixt  all  of  the  nation. 

But,  alas !  such  as  wrote  in  or  since  our  civil  wars  are  seldom 
apprehended  truly  and  candidly,  save  of  such  of  their  own  persua- 

Digitizedby^OOQlC 


FULLKR'S  IKTKOPUCTION.  286 

sion ;  whilst  others  do  not  (or  what  is  worse,  ftitt  not)  understand 
them  aright :  and  no  wonder  if  speeches  be  not  rendered  according 
to  the  true  intent  of  the  speaker,  when  prejudice  is  the  interpreter 
thereof. 

This  I  foresaw  when  I  entered  upon  my  Church-History ;  but 
comforted  myself  with  the  counsel  of  Erasmus:  Si  non-po8$i$ 
plaeere  omnibus^  plaeeto  optimis ;  ^*  If  thou  canst  not  please  all, 
please  the  best/^  In  order  whereunto,  I  took,  up  to  myself  this 
resolution,  to  steer  my  course  betwixt  the  two  .rocks  of  adulation 
and  irritation.;  though  it  seems  I  have  run  upon  both,  if  the  Ani- 
madvertor  may  be  believed ;  whereof  hereafter. 

As  it  is  impossible  in-distracted  times  to  please  all,  «o.is  it  easy 
for  any  at  any  time  to  cavil  at  the  best  performance.  A  pigmy  is 
giant  enough  for  this  purpose.  Now  cavils  may  ^be  '^reduced  to 
these  two  heads : — Cavils  without  cause;  cavils  without  measure. 

Causelsss  Cavils  are  such  as  the  caviller  himself  doth  create, 
without  any  ground  for  the  same.  Sudi  find  a  knot  in  a  bulrush, 
because  they  themselves  before  had  tied  it  therein ;  and  may  be 
compared  to  beggars,  who  breed  vermin  in  ..their  x>wn  bodies,  and 
then  blow  them  on  the  clothes  of  others. 

Cavils  without  mkasujie  are,  when«the!anger  and  bitterness 
of  the  caviller  ezceedeth  due  proportion,  and  the  demerit  of  the 
&alt ;  as  when  he  maketh  memory-  to  beytM^^m^ia^-mistakes ;  catual 
to  be  Toluntary  errors,  the  printer's  to  be  the  author's  faults ;  and 
then  brags  every  foil  to  be  a  fall,  and  triumpheth  at  the  rout  of  a 
small  party  as  at  the  defeat  of  the  whole  army.  This-  distinction  is 
here  premised,  whereof  hereafter  we  shall  make  use  as  we  see  just 
occasion. 


CHAPTER  H. 

Why  the.  Author  desired  and  hcpednerer  to  come  under  Jhe  Pen  of. 
the  Animadvertor  in  a  controversial  Difference. 

It  was  ever  my  desire  and  care,  if  it  were  possible,  not  to  fall 
binder  the  pen  of  the  Animadvertor ;  .Iiaving  several  reasons  thereof 
to  myself,  which  now  I  publicly  profess  :— 

•1.  I  knew  him  a  man  of  able  parts  and  learning.  >  God^sanctiiy 
both  to  his  glory  *  and  the  churcVs  good  ! 

2.  Of  an  eager  spirit,  with  him  of  whom  it'^v^i^  soidy' Quicquid 
«oiK»V,  vcddi  voluit. 

3.  Of  a  tart  and  smatt  style,  endeavouring  to  down  with  all 
^hich  stood  betwixt  him  and  his  opinion. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


286  APPEAL  OP  INJITRBD  INNOCENCE.  PART  I. 

4.  Not  over-datiful  in  his  language  to  the  fethere  of  the  cfanrcb, 
(what  then  may  children  expect  from  him  ?)  if  contrary  in  judgment 
to  him. 

Lastly  and  chiefly.  One,  the  edge  of  whose  keenness  is  not 
taken  off  by  the  death  of  his  adversaiy  ;  witness  his  writing  against 
the  archbishops  of  York  and  Armagh. 

The  &ble  tells  us  that  the  tanner  was  the  worst  of  all  masters  to 
his  cattle,  as  who  would  not  only  load  them  soundly  whilst  living, 
but  tan  their  hides  when  dead  ;  and  none  could  blame  one  if  unwill- 
ing to  exasperate  such  a  pen,  which,  if  surviving,  would  prosecute 
his  adversary  into  his  grave.  The  premises  made  me,  though  not 
servilely  fearful,  (which,  I  ptuise  God,  I  am  not  of  any  writer,)  yet 
generally  cautious  not  to  give  him  any  personal  provocation,  knowing 
that  though  both  our  pens  were  long,  the  world  was  wide  enough 
for  them  without  crossing  each  other. 

As  I  desired,  so  1  partly  hoped,  that  my  Church-History  would 
escape  the  Animadvertor.  First.  Because  a  gentleman  came  to  me, 
(sent  from  him,  as  I  supposed,)  informing  me,  *^  That  had  not  Dr. 
Heylin  been  visited  with  blindness,  he  had  been  upon  my  bones 
before.''  Then  I  desired  him  to  return  this  answer :  "  That,  as  I 
was  sorry  for  the  sad  cause,  the  doctor's  blindness ;  I  was  glad  of 
the  joyful  effect,  my  own  quiet."  Not  hearing  any  more  for 
many  months  after,  I  conceived  myself  secure  firom  any  wind  in 
that  comer. 

It  increased  my  confidence,  because  I  conceived  Dr.  Heylin 
neither  out  of  charity  or  policy  would  write  against  one  who  had 
been  his  fellow-servant  to— 4tnd  sufferer  for — the  same  lord  and 
master,  king  Charles ;  for  whose  cause  I  lost  none  of  the  worst 
livings,  and  one  of  the  best  prebends,  in  England.  Only  thus 
happy  I  was  in  my  very  uuhappiness, — to  leave  what  teas  taken 
away  from  the  rest  of  my  brethren. 

In  a  word,  seeing  no  birds  or  beasts  of  prey  (except  sharp-set 
indeed)  will  feed  on  his  own  kind,  I  concluded  Dr.  Heylin  would 
not  write  against  me,  who  conceived  myself  to  be  one  of  his  own 
party. 

But,  it  seems,  I  reckoned  without  my  host,  and  now  am  called  to 
a  rear-account.  I  cannot  say  with  Job,  "  The  thing  that  I  feared"—* 
but,  The  thing  that  I  feared  not — "  is  fellen  upon  me.** 

However,  I  conceived  myself  bound  in  duty  to  David's  command  ^ 
"  Not  only  to  seek  peace,  but  to  pursue  it ; "  Psalm  xxxiv.  14  ^ 
though  in  some  sort  it  fled  away  from  me,  being  now  infonnecl 
that  the  doctor  was  writing  against  me ;  wherefore,  finding  hiixi, 
in  Fleet-street,  and  following  him  at  his  heels  to  his  chamber,  (at  a. 
stationer's  house  over  against  St.  Bunstan's  church,)  I  sent  up  my 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


FULLER'S  INTROPUCTION.  2g7 

name  to  Ilim  by  a  tenratti  of  the  Louse,  deBiring  to  speak  a 
few  voids  with  him.  The  messenger  went  to  him»  and  returned 
me  this  answer :  **  That  the  doctor  was  very  busy,  and  could  not 
be  spoken  with.**^  Thus,  my  treaty  for  peace  taking  no  effect,  I 
armed  myself  with  patience,  and  quietly  expected  the  ccmiing-foith 
of  his  book  against  me» 


CHAPTER  III. 

Tk(U,  after  serum  DebaU^  the  AfUhar  fatmd  him$df  necmiicUed 
to  make  this  *^  Appeai"^  m  his  own  just  Vindioaiian. 

Hating  perused  the  books  of  the  Animadvertor  against  me,  it 
bare  a  strong  debate  within  me,  whether  I  should  pass  it  over  in 
s3ence,  or  return  an  answer  unto  him;  and  arguments-on  both  sides 
presented  themselves  unto  me. 

^ence  seemed  best,  because  I  lacked  leisure  solemnly  to  confute 
his  ^<  Animadyersions,^  having  at  this  time  so  much  and  Tarious 
employment :  the  cow  was  well  stocked  with  milk,  thus  praised  by 
the  poet :  * 

BU  vtmi  ad  mulctrum,  bino$  aUi  uherefmtu$, 

**  She  inckles  two,  yet  dotk  not  fkil 
Twice  a*d*y  to  come  to  th'  ftJl." 

But  I  justly  feared,who  twice  a  Lord^s-day  do  come  to  the  piilpii, 
(God  knows  my  heart,  I  speak  it  not  to  ostentation,)  that  I  could 
not  suckle  Hiy  parish  and  the  press,  without  starving  or  short-feeding 
of  one  :  whereas  the  Animadvertor,  in  his  retired  life,  gives  no  other 
milk  than  following  his  own  private  studies. 

Secondly.  I  suggested  to  myself,  that  the  second  blow  makes 
the  fray ;  and  should  I  rejoin,  probably  it  would  engage  me  in  an 
endless  contest,  with  which  my  declining  age  could  ill  comport.  1 
remembered  the  man  who  moved  in  chancery  for  a  ffeU-oiAer^  which 
should  beget  no  more  ;  but  knew  not  when  any  such  euntt€h'B.nBwer 
should  pass  betwixt  us,  to  put  a  period  to  the  controversy. 

Ijastly.  Our  Saviour's  counsel  came  into  my  mind :  "  Kesist 
not  evil ;  but  whosoever  shall  smite  thee  on  the  right  side,  turn  to 
him  the  other  also,''  Matt.  v.  39.  And  although  some  divines 
make  this  precept  but  temporary,  as  a  swaddling-cloth  to  the  church, 
whilst  in  the  infancy  thereof,  under  persecution ;  yet  others  make  it 
always  obligatory,  and  of  perpetual  continuance. 

On  the  other  side,  the  distinction  came  seasonably  to  my  remem- 
brance,  of  a  mane's  righting  and  revenging  himself;   the  latter 

•  Vjrgilii  Eclog,  Hi,  30. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


288  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  I. 

belongs  to  God  alone,  "  Vengeance  is  mine,  I  will  repay  it ; " 
Rom.  xii.  19  ;  the  former  men  may — and  in  some  cases  must — do, 
in  their  own  fair  defence,  without  breach  of  our  Saviour^s  precept 
lately  alleged. 

I  called  also  to  mind,  how,  in  our  common  law,  mutes  at  the  bar, 
who  would  not  plead  to  the  indictment,  are  adjudged  guilty  ;  and 
therefore  justly  suspected  I  should,  from  .my  silence,  be  concluded 
CAST  in  the  court  of  religion  and  learning,  for  such  faults  and  errois 
as  the  Animadvertor  hath  chaiged  on  me* 

But  most  of  all  it  moved  me,  that  ministers  of  God^^s  word  and 
sacraments  ought  to  vindicate  their  credits,  that  so  they  may  be  the 
more  effectual  factors  for  God^  glory  in  their  vocation.  When  our 
Saviour  wenLabout  to  heal  the  mane's  withered  hand  on  the  Sabbath- 
day,  "  Is  it  lawfiil,'Vsaid  he,  "  to  save  life,.^r  to.  kill  ?  ''  Mark  iii.  4, 
Where  I  observed,  that  our  Saviour  accounted  not  healing  to  be 
hurting ;  ye^,  not  curing  to  be  killings  in  that  person  who  had 
ability  and  opportunity  to  do  it.  And  by  the  same  proportion,  not 
plastering  lakiUing  of-one^s  .wcBinded  credit ;  and  so,  consequently, 
I  should  be.,^^  de  ^,  und  by  my  sinful  ^silence .  be  .the  wilful  mur* 
derer  of  my  own  reputation. 

These  last  reasons  did  preponderate  with  me ;  and  I  resolved  on 
two  things :  To  return  a  plain,  full,  and  speedy  answer :  and  to 
refrain  from  all  railing,  r'which  is  a  sick  wit,  if  not  the  sickness  of 
wit ;  and  though,  perchance,  I  may  have  something  tart  to  quicken 
the  appetite  of  Ihe  reader,  yet  nothing  bitter  against  the  credit  of 
the  Animadvertor.  This  my  "*' Answer^  I  have  here  intituled, 
"  The  Appeal  unto  the  Religious,  Learned,  and  Ingenuous.**' 

But  "before  I  close  with  the  Animadvertor,  comintiSj  ^*  hand  to 
hand  ;  ^  let  us  first,  eminm^  try  it  **  at  distance,''  and  entertain  the 
reader  (to  his  profit  an'd  pleasure,  -fhope)  with  my  Gekekal  De- 
FENCEs,T)efore  I  proceed  to  answer  each  particular. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

THE  AUTHOR'S  FTRST  GENERAL  ANSWER, 

4raken  from  his  Title-Page^  and  teord  ^^endea^ured^,^  ' 

Men  may  be  ranked  into  three  forms,  of  intendebs,  endea- 
vouEEEs,  and  performers. 

Ixtenders -are. the  first  and  lowest  form;  yet  so  far  favoured  by 
some  papists,  that  they  maintain,  "  That  a  good  intention,  though 
embracing  ill  means,  m^kes  a  good  action." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


CULLER'S  INTRODUCTION".  289 

Pebfo&mers  are  the  third  and  highest  rank;  to  which  my 
thoaghts  dare  not  aspire,  but  leave  this  upper  room  empty,  to  be 
filled  by  men  of  better  parte  and  ability. 

The  middle  form  consists  of  endeavourkrs,  amongst  whom  I 
took  my  station  in  the  title-page  of  my  book  :— 

"THE  CHURCH-HISTORY  OF  BRITAIN, 

ENDBAYOURBD 

BY  THOMAS  FULLER.- 

And  as  I  did  not  hope  that  any  courteous  reader  would  call  me  up 
Uglier,  80  I  did  not  fear  that  any  caviller  thereat  could  cast  me 
lower,  but  that  I  might  still  peaceably  possess  my  place  of  au 

KNDEAYOtJRKR. 

For,  what  though  I  &11  short  of  that  which  I  desire,  and  strive  to 
perform  ?  I  did  neither  belie  myself,  nor  deceive  the  reader,  who 
neither  was  the  first,  nor  shall  be  the  last,  of  whom  it  may  be  truly 
^^  Magnii  ^acidit  ausis :  the  &te  of  many,  my  betters,  who  have 
undertaken  to  compass  high  and  hard  matters. 

Bat  it  may  be  objected  against  me,  that,  being  conscious  of  my 
own  weakness  with  the  weight  of  the  burden,  I  should  have  left  the 
^ork  for  some  stronger  back  to  bear,  and  quitted  it  to  those 
who  would  not  only  have  endeavoured,  but  performed,  the  same, 

I  answ^ :  First.  I  did  hope,  that  what  was  acceptable  to  God 
wottki  not  be  contemptible  to  good  men ;  having  read,  '*  If  there  be 
fifst  a  willing  mind,  it  is  accepted  according  to  that  a  man  hath,  and 
not  according  to  that  he  hath  not,''  2  Cor.  viii.  12.  Secondly* 
Seeing  this  my  willingness  was  attended  with  a  competency  of 
books,  records,  friends,  intelligence,  strength,  health,  and  leisure^ 
(ke  all  spoken,  not  to  my  praise,  but  God's  glory,)  I  did  hope 
something  worth  the  reader's  acceptance  might  be  produced, 
Lastly.  Though  fiedling  in  what  I  undertook,  I  hoped  to  perform 
^Iiat  might  be  useful  and  advantageous  to  abler  pens  undertaking 
the  same  task,  and — to  use  my  own  (as  who  should  forbid  P)  expresr 
8ion — my  beams  might  be  scaffolds,  my  comer-  fillingnstones  forhii^ 
to<Mre  beautiful  building. 

The  premises  encouraged  me  to  undertake  my  Church*History ; 
^herein,  if  I  have  not  done  what  the  reader  expected,  let  him  conr 
sider  with  himself,  whether  h^  did  not  expect  what  I  never  promised ; 
who,  being  unwilling  to  be  cast  by  the.  verdict  of  the  ingenuous, 
tor  laying  my  own  action  too  high,  have  not  farced  the  first  page  of 
^Y  Wk,  (Uke  a  mountebank's  bill,)  pretending  no  higher  but  to 
endeavour. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


290  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  I. 

CHAPTER  V. 

THE  SECOND  GENERAL  ANSWER. 

ThcU  many^  evpedalJiy  Memory-Mistakes^  and  Pen-Slips^  must  be 
expected  in  a  great  Volume. 
It  is  the  advantage  of  a  small  book,  that  the  author^s  eye  may  in 
a  manner  be  incambent  at  once  over  it  all,  from  the  beginniDg 
to  the  end  thereof;  a  cause  ^hy  they  may  be  more  exactly  corrected. 
A  garden  hard  by  one^s  house  is  easier  weeded  and  trimmed,  than  a 
field  lying  at  some  distance.  Books  which  swell  to  a  great  vohme, 
4»mnot  be  spun  with  so  even  a  thread,  but  will  run  coarser  here  and 
there ;  yea,  and  have  knots  in  them  sometimes,  whereof  the  author  is 
not  so  sensible  as  the  reader ;  as  the  iaults  in  children  are  not  so  soon 
found  in  them  bj  their  own  fathers,  as  by  strangers.  Thus  the 
poet:—* 

Ftfnkn  opere  in  Umgoftu  est  oirepere  somnum. 

As  for  memory-mibtakes,  (which  are  not  the  sleeping,  but  winlr- 
ing,  of  an  author,)  they  are  so  far  frotn  ov^lhrowing  the  credit  of 
any  book,  as  a  speck,  Hot  paring-deep,  in  the  rind  of  an  apple  is  fmm 
proving  of  the  same  rotten  t<>  the  core.  Yea,  there  want  not  learned 
writers  (whom  I  need  not  name)  of  the  opinion,  that  even  the 
instrumehtal  pentiiien  of  the  scripture  might  commit  apLafTfijiara. 
fkvif^inxA ;  though,  open  that  window  to  profaneness,  and  it  will  be 
in  vain  to  shut  any  doors  t  ^*  Let  Ood  be  true,  and  every  man  b  liar.'' 
However,  I  mention  theil*  judgments  to  this  purpose,  to  ehow  that 
fnemorynnistakes  have  not  been  counted  such  heinous  matters, 
btit  venial  in  th<eir  own  nature^  aa  not  onljF  finding  but  deserving 
pardom 

I  confess  Vrhen  suck  mistakes  become  common  and  cuetomary  itr 
an  author,  they  mar  the  credit  of  his  book,  and  intolerably  abuse 
the  reader.  Nothing  is  lighter  in  itself  than  a  single  cromb  of 
sand,  yet  many  of  them  ptit  together  are  the  heaviest  of  bodily 
burdens :  *^  heavier  than  the  sand  of  the  sea^**"  Job  vi^  3.  What 
is  slight  in  itself)  if  numerous,  will  become  ponderous ;  but  I  hope 
that  memory-mistakes  and  pen-slips  in  my  book  will  not  be  found 
tfio  flrequent ;  and  desire  the  benefit  of  this  plea  to  be  allowed  me 
but  four  times,  in  my  answer  to  the  Anitbadvertor :  a  hrnnbeT  lo^ 
enough)  I  hope,  for  the  ingenuous  reader  to  grant,  though  perchance 
too  high  for  me  to  request. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


FULLER'S  INTRODUCTION.  691 

CHAPTER  VL 

THE  THIRD  GENERAL  ANSWER. 

That^  in  mHre  Stories  of  %mpregn<Me  TrtUh^  it  is  faeile  for  ons 
to  cavil  teitk  some  Odour  at  dismembered  Passages  therein. 

It  18  an  act  as  easy  as  unjust,  for  one  to  assault  a  naked  sen- 
tence,  as  it  stands  by  itself,  disarmed  of  the  assistance  of  the 
coherence  before  and  after  it.  All  sentences  (except  they  be 
entire  and  independent)  have  a  double  strength  in  them,  one 
inherent,  the  other  relative,  and  the  latter  sometimes  greater  than 
die  former;  when  what  in  a  sentence  is  doubtful,  is  explained; 
difficult,  expounded;  defective,  supplied;  yea,  seemingly  fisilse, 
rendered  really  true  by  the  connexion. 

We  read  in  the  Life  of  St  Edward,*  that  Harold,  cup-bearer 
to  the  king,  chanced  to  stumble  with  the  one  foot,  that  he  almost 
kissed  the  ground;  but  with  the  other  leg  he  recovered  himself: 
whereat  his  father  Oodwin,  eail  of  Kent,  (then  dining  with  the 
king,)  said,  "Now  one  brother  doth  help  another  ;**  to  whom  the 
ting  replied,  ^^  And  so  might  my  brother  have  helped  me,f  if  it  had 
80  pleased  you.*** 

Many  times  when  one  sentence  in  my  book  hath*  had  a  casual 
«Iip,  the  next  to  it,  out  (tf  fraternal  kindness,  would  have  held  it  upi, 
(in  the  apprehension  of  the  reader,)  from  (ailing  into  any  great 
«Ror,  had  the  Animadvertor  so  pleased ;  who  uncharitably  cuttetk 
It  off  from  such  support,  so  that  one  brother  cannot  help  another ; 
whilst  he  representeth  mangled  and  maimed  passages,  to  the  disad* 
"vantage  of  the  sense  and  writer  thereof.  Thus  one  may  prove 
atheism  out  of  scripture  itself:  "There  is  no  Gk)d.^  But  what 
^ent  before  ?  '*  The  fool  hath  said  in  his  heart.'' 

I  have  dealt  more  fairly  in  this  my  Appeal  with  the  Animad- 
yertor ;  and  hi^ve  not  here  and  there  picked  out  parcels,  and  cnft 
^  shreds  where  they  make  nH>st  for  my  advanti^e ;  but  have 
Presented  the  whole  cloth  of  his  book,  (as  he  will  find  so,  if  pleach 
ingto  measure  it  over  again,)  length  and  breadth,  and  list,  and 
%  and  all ;  that  so  the  reader  may  see  of  what  wool  it  is  made^ 
and  [with]  what  thread  it  is  spun,  and  thereby  be  the  better  enabled 
*o  pass  his  verdict  upon  it, 

*  Cited  in  Cahdir'8  <<  Remaini,"  page  241.  t  Meaniog  bis  brother  Al&ed> 

^hom  Godwin  had  sliamefolly  mnrdered. 


U    2  Digitized  by  Google 


292  APPBAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE  PART  V. 

CHAPTER  VII. 

THE  FOURTH  OENERAI^  ANSWER. 

TAcU  Favour,  of  course^,  is  indulged  to  the  firat  (as  least  perfect) 

Edition  of  Books. 
.     TfiE  first  edition  of  a  book,   in  a  difficult  subject,  batli  ever 
been  beheld  as  less  complete ;    and  a  liberty  of  correcting  and 
amending  hath  been  allowed  to  all  authors  of  this  kind. 

I  will  instance  in  his  book, — whose  books  would  I  was  worthy 
to  bear ! — Me.  Camden's  "  Britannia.""  His  first  edition  was  a 
pabe  in  a  little- — ^the  second,  a  child  in  a  bigger— octavo ;  the  third, 
ft  youth  in  a  quarto^  but  tnap-less  ;  the  last,  a  man  in  a  fair  folio : 
first  and  last  differing  more  than  a  galley  and  galleass,  not  only  io 
the  greatness  but  perfection^ — every  newer  edition  amending  the 
faults  of  the  former. 

;  Next,  we  will  insist  in  another  author  above  all  exception,  even 
.  the  Animadvertor  himself,  who  in  his  "  Epistle  to  the  Reader,'' 
before  the  second  and  much-altered  edition  of  his  *'  Microcosm," 
thus  expresseth  himself,  not  unhappily  either  for  his  own  or  my 
purpose  :-r- 

"  I  am  not  the  first  of  whotn  it  was  said,  Secundce  eogitationes 
punt  meliores  ;  neither  is  it  a  thing  rare  for  children  of  this  nature, 
io  be  as  often  perfected  as  bom.  Books  have  an  immortality  above 
their  authors.  They,  when  they  are  full  of  age  and  guiltiness, 
<»n  be  retaken  into  the  womb  which  bred  them,  and,  with  a  new 
life,  ^receive  a  greater  portion  of  youth  and  glory.  Every  impres- 
«ion  is  to  them  another  being;  and  that  always  may,  and  often 
doth,  bring  with  it  a  sweeter  edition  of  strength  and  loveliness. 
Thus  with  them  age,  and  each  several  death,  is  but  an  usher  to  a 
-Aew  birth ;  each  several  birth,  the  mother  of  a  more  vigorous 
perfection.'' 

r  Had  the  like  liberty  of  a  second  edition  been  allowed  me,  which 
•the  Animadvertor  assumed,  his  pains  had  been  prevented,  and 
inost  of  the  fiiults  he  hath  found  in  my  book  (being  either  detected 
by  myself,  or  discovered  by  my  friends,  communicating  the  same 
imto  me)  had  been  rectified. 

Thus  in  the  Latin  tongue  the  same  wqrd  secundus  signifieth  both 
*'  second ''  and  "  successful ; ''  because  second  undertakings  (wherein 
the  failings  of  the  former  are  observed  and  amended)  generally  prove 
most  prosperous. 

But  it  will  be  objected :  "  Such  second  editions  with  new  inser- 
tions, additions,  and  alterations,  are  no  better  than  pick-pockets  to 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


FULLER'S  INTRODUCTION.  293t 

the  reader ;  vho,  having  purchased  and  perused  the  first  edition,  is^ 
by  this  new  one,  both  in  his  purse  and  pains  equally  abused,  and 
his  book  rendered  little  better  than  waste  paper.*" 

I  answer :  First.  I  am  no  more  obnoxious  to  this  objection  than 
other  authors  who  set  forth  new  editions.  Secondly.  I  hope,  my^ 
alterations  shall  not  be  so  many  or  great  as  to  disguise  the  second 
from  the  first  edition.  Lastly.  I  will  take  order  (Ood  willing)  for 
the  printing  of  a  piece  of  paper  (less  than  a  leaf)  in  my  second 
impression,  being  tbe  index  of  alteration,  so  that  the  owners  of  the 
first  may,  if  so  pleased,  in  less  than  an  hour,  with  their  pens,  con- 
form their  books  to  the  new  edition,  which,  though  a  little  lesff 
beautiful  to  the  eye,  will  be  no  less  beneficial  to  the  users  thereof. 

Here  let  me  humbly  tender  to  the  reader's  consideration,  that  my 
**Holy  War,'*  though  (for  some  design  of  the  stationer)  sticking 
still,  in  the  title-page,  at  the  third  edition,  (as  some  unmarried  maids 
will  nerer  be  more  than  eighteen,)  yet  hath  it  oftener  passed  thot 
press,  as  hath  my  *'  Holy  State,**  "  Meditations,*'  &c.  and  yet 
Bever  did  I  alter  line  or  word  in  any  new  impresAon. 

I  speak  not  this  by  way  of  attribution  to  myself,  as  if  my  books 
came  forth  at  first  with  more  perfection  than  other  men*s  ;  but  with 
insinuation  to  the  reader,  that  it  is  but  equal  that  I— who  have  beea 
no  common  beggar  in  this  kind,  yea,  never  before  made  use  of  a 
second  edition — ^may  now  have  the  benefit  thereof  allowed  me,  esp^-» 
cially  in  a  subject  of  such  length,  latitude,  difficulty,  variety,  aad 
multiplicity  of  matter* 


CHAPTER  VIIL 

THE  FIFTH  GENERAL  ANSWER. 

That  it  is  no  Shame  for  any  JIfaw  to  confess^  (when  convinced 
thereof)  and  amende  an  Error  in  his  Judgment. 

The  knowledge  of  our  Saviour,  as  God,  may  be  compared  to  the 
sun,  all-perfect  and  complete  at  once  without  any  accession  oif 
addition,  thereunto ;  whilst  his  knowledge,  as  man,  like  the  waxing 
moon,  was  capable  of  increase,  and  was  (though  not  subject  to  the 
least  error)  receptive  of  clearer  information ;  and  *'  Jesus  increased 
in  wisdom,**  Luke  ii.  28;  yea,  it  is  expressly  said,  **Yet  learned 
te  obedience  by  the  things  which  he  suffered.'* 

Not  such  the  knowledge  of  the  best  and  wisest  man ;  which, 
besides  a  capability  of  more  instruction,  is  alwajrs  attended  with  an 
obnoxiousncss  to  many  mistakes,  seeing  "  here  we  know  in  part,'* 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


294  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  I. 

1  Cor.  xiiL  9 ;  and  easy  it  is  for  any  man  to  come  on  tbe  blbd 
side  of  another,  as  being  better  versed  and  skilled  in  such  particular 
matters. 

:  When,  therefore,  I  find  myself  convinced  in  my  judgment  of  an 
error  in  my  Church-History,  by  penising  the  notes  of  the  Animad^ 
vertor,  I  will  fiurly  and  freely  confess  and  amend  it. 

And  I  conceive  it  is  no  shame  at  all  for  a  child  to  write  a  few 
lines  of  Retractation,  after  so  good  a  father  *  hath  set  him  so  fsiir  a 
copy  thereof. 

-  In  such  a  case,  let  not  the  Animad  vertor  give  me  any  blawsy 
where  I  conceive  that  my  aum  blush  is  a  sufficient  penance  for  tho 
same ;  and  let  him  not  immoderately  insult  on  such  occasions,  see^ 
mg  my  judgment-faults  will  be  found  neither  in  number  nor  nature 
such  as  he  hath  suggested.  Covetous  Euclio,  in.  the  comedy,f 
complained  that  his  servant  in^rommt  sexoenhs  oaqms^^  *^  had  let  in 
six  hundred  cooks,^  when  they  wanted  five  hundred  ninety-eight  of 
that  number,  being  but  two  (Anthrax  and  Congrio)  truly  told; 
and  though  the  Ahimadvertor  frequently  complaineth,  that  I  '^  run 
into  many  errors,  run  into  many  errors  ;^|  yet,  on  examination, 
many  of  those  errors  will  prove  truths,  and  such  as  remain  erron 
will  not  prove  many. 

Besides,  the  Animad  vertor  is  concerned  to  be  civil  to  me  in  this 
kind,  seeing,  in  this  particular,— 

Vemam  peiimus  dabimutpie  vicuHm  : 

**  A  mutual  bargain  we  may  make, 
Pardon  to  give,  and  pardon  take." 

If  I  were  minded  to  retaliate,  and  to  show  that  humanum  est 
errare^  I  could  instance  in  many  mistakes  in  the  last  edition  of  his 
^'  Geography.'*^  Some  of  the  best  birth  and  brains  in  our  nation, 
and  travellers  in  foreign  parts,  as  far  as  India  itself,  proffered  me, 
on  their  accord,  to  detect  in  several  countries  unexcusable  errors, 
confuted  by  their  ocular  discovery. 

I  heartily  thanked  them  for  that  which  I  refused  to  accept ;  and 
did  return :  First.  That  the  book  had  achieved  a  general  repute, 
and  not  undeservedly.  Secondly.  That  it  w^  very  useful,  and  I 
myself  had  reaped  benefit  thereby.  Thirdly.  That  it  would  seem 
in  me  like  to  revenge  in  this  juncture  of  time,  when  the  doctor  was 
disadvantaged  by  some  infirmity.  Lastly.  That  otliers  might  be 
detrimented  th««by.  Yea,  if  we  but  look  into  his  *^  Short  View 
of  the  Life  and  Reign  of  King  Charles,^^  some  fiiults  occur  therein^ 

•  St.  Augnatine.  f  ^ulularia  Plauti.  X  Paget  218,  223,  and  oftea 

<eUiewlier^ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


FUUiSIPS  INTRODUCTION.  29S 

which,  God  villing,  I  if  ill  calmly  diBcorer  in  our  Aoswef  to  ibeae 
ADimadversions  ;  not  with  intent  to  cloud  his  credit,  but  clear  my 
own. 


CHAPTER  IX, 

THE  SIXTH  GENERAL  ANSWER. 

Thatprdal  Misk^keSy  in  Defiance  o/att  Oare,  will  escape  in  the 
best-corrected  Boot, 

The  most  accurate  book  that  erer  came  forth  into  light  Lad 
some  mistakes  of  the  press  therein.  Indeed,  I  have  heard  of 
Robert  Stephen,  that  he  offered  a  great  sum  of  money  (equivalent, 
perchance,  to  five  pounds  of  our  English  coin)  to  such  i^ho  would 
discover  any  erratum  in  his  folio  Greek  Testament,  dedicated  to 
king  Francis  I. 

But  sure  I  am,  that  some  of  our  English  Bibles,  which  may  be 
presumed  set  forth  with  the  best  care,  printed  at  London,  have 
iheirerraias;  and,  therefore,  prehd  fiuilts  being  a  catching  disease,' 
no  wonder  if  my  book,  as  toeU  (or  ndier,  as  ill)  as  others,  be  sub*i 
ject  to  the  same. 

Here  it  will  be  objected,  ^*  That  there  is  a  known  and  surar 
receipt  fm:  the  cure  of  this  disease,  namely,  the  listing  of  ^uch  faulta 
as  have  escaped,  either  in  the  beginning  .or  end  of  the  book ;  that 
so  the  reader  may,  if  he  please,  amend,  if  otherwise,  avoid  them. 
Such  an  index  erraiorumy  or  ^  catalogue  of  mistakes,^  is,  in  some 
sort,  a  stool  of  repentance,  wherein  offenders  find  their  lost  inno-t 
cence ;  and  such  fitults,  thus  confessed,  are  never  charged  either  on 
the  author  s  or  printer's  account*^ 

It  is  answered,  That  altl^augh  such  a  list  of  faults  generally  fol- 
loweth  as  the  impedimentum  or  ^^  baggage  '^  in  the  rear  of  a  book) 
jet  seldom  or  never  is  it  adequate  to  all  the  erratas  which  are  com- 
mitted therein. 

For,  First,  All  committed  are  not  discovered,  neither  by  the 
corrector,  nor  the  author  himself;  who,  perusing  his  own  book,  k^ 
overlooking  the  faults  therein,  ot^^rlooks  them  indeed  ;  and,  follow i> 
ing  the  conduct  of  his  own  £uicy,  (wherein  he  intended  all  to  be 
right,)  readeth  the  words  in  his  book  rather  as  they  should  i^->-^thaii 
OS  they  or^— «rprinted. 

Secondly.  All  faults  which  are  discovered  are  not  confessed* 
Such  as  tlie  printer  esteemeth  small,  he  leaveth  to  be  amended  by 
the  direction  of  the  sense,  and  discretion  of  the  reader ;  according 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


g!9d  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  I. 

to  tlie  common  speech,  that  ^'  the  reader  ought  to  be  better  than  his 
book;^ 

In  mj  book,  the  index  of  erraku  amounts  not  to  above  forty;  a 
very  small  number  in  proportion  of  so  voluminous  a  work ;  whid, 
-with  credit,  might  crare  the  allowance  of  twice  as  many  more  there- 
unto. The  Animadvertor,  in  these  his  notes,  maketh  great  advan- 
tage of  some  of  these  unconfessed  fiiults ;  and  I  sometimes  plead 
the  mistake  of  the  press  for  my  answer,  though  seldom,  save  when 
some  similitude  of  form  in  the  mistaken  letter  rendereth  it  probable 
for  A  prelal  error. 


CHAPTER  X. 

THE  SEVENTH  AND  LAST  GENERAL  ANSWER. 

Tlua  an  Author^  charging  his  Margin  with  his  Author,  is  thereby 

himself  discharged. 
-  HisTOEiANs  who  write  of  things  done  at  distance,  many  miles 
from  their  dwellings,  and  more  years  before  their  births,  must  either 
feign  them  in  their  own  brains,  or  fetch  them  from  other  credible 
authors.  I  say  credible,  such  as  carry  worth  and  weight  with  them, 
substantial  persons,  subsidy^men  (as  I  may  say)  in  Truth's  book ; 
otherwise,  for  some  pamphlets,  and  all  pasquils,  I  behold  them  as  so 
many  "knights  of  the  post,"  even  of  no  reputation. 

Now,  for  the  more  credit  of  what  is  written,  and  better  assurance 
of  the  reader,  it  is  very  expedient  that  the  author  alleged  be  folly 
and  fairly  quoted  in  the  margin,  with  the  tome,  book,  chapter,  leaf, 
page,  and  column  sometimes,  (seldom  descending  so  low  as  the 
line,)  where  the  thing  quoted  is  expressed;  and,  this  done,  the 
author  is  free  from  fault  which  citeth  it,-*though  he  may  be  faulty 
yfho  is  cited,  if  delivering  a  falsehood. 

~  Indeed,  if  one  become  bound  as  surety  for  another,  he  engageth 
himself  to  make  good  the  debt  in  default  of  the  principal.  But  if 
h^  only  be  bail  for  his  appearance,  and  accordingly  produceth  his 
person  in  public  court,  he  ought  to  be  discharged  without  fiirther 
trouble. 

Semblably,  if  one  not  only  cites,  but  commends,  the  words  of  an 
Author,  then  he  undertakes  for  him,  adopts  his  words  to  be  his  own, 
becomes  his  pledge ;  and,  consequently,  is  bound  to  justify  and 
maintain  the  truth  of  what  he  hath  quoted.  But  if  he  barely 
allegeth  his  words,  without  any  closing  with  them  in  his  judgment* 
he  is  only  bound  for  that  author's  appearance  -.—understand  me,  to 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


FITLLSR'S  INTRODUCTIOlf.  297 

Jtutify  that  sack  words  aie  exacUj  extailt  in  manner  and  foim  in  the 
place  alleged,  easy  to  be  found  by  any  who  will  follow  the  marginal 
direction* 

This  I  reserve  for  my  eighth  and  lasi  Answkb,  when  taxed  by 
the  Animadvertor  for  such  things  for  which  I  have  presented  my 
author  in  the  margin.  In  snch  cases,  I  conceive,  I  should  be  dis^ 
cbaiged ;  and  if  any  fees  at  all  be  to  be  paid,  I  hope  the  courteous 
reader,  on  my  request,  will  remit  them,  and  dismiss  me,  without 
Qioie  molestation. 


CHAPTER  XI. 

That  many  of  the  Animadvertar^s  Nates  are  only  additional^  not 
opposite^  to  what  I  have  written  ;  and  that  all  Things  omitted 
in  an  History  ^  are  not  Defects. 

Whoso  beholdeth  the  several  places  in  my  book,  noted  on  by 
the  Animadvertor,  hath  cause,  at  the  first  blush,  to  conclude  my 
Ghuich-History  very  erroneous  and  full  of  faults ;  out  of  which,  so 
big  a  bundle  of  mistakes  have  been  collected.  But,  upon  serious 
perusal  of  these  notes,  it  will  appear  that  a  third  part  of  them,  at  the 
least,  are  merely  additional,  not  opposite,  to  what  I  have  written  ;  so 
that  they  render  my  book  not  for  truth  the  less,  but  his  for  bulk  the 
greater. 

Herein  he  seemeth  like  unto  those  builders  who,  either  wanting 
materials  to  erect  an  entire  house,  or  fearing  so  frail  and  feeble  a  fa- 
bric will  not  stand  by  itself,  run  it  along  the  side-walls  of  another 
house,  whereby  they  not  ovlj  save  timber,  but  gain  strength  to  their 
new  edifice. 

The  Animadvertor  had  a  mind  to  communicate  some  new  notions 
he  had  to  the  world,  but  he  found  them  not  many  and  weighty 
enough  to  fill  a  just  book  for  sale  ;  whereupon,  he  resolves  to  mnge 
his  notions  against  my  Church-History,,  that  so,  partly  carping 
thereat,  and  partly  adding  thereto,  he  might,  betwixt  both,  make 
up  a  book  competent  for  sale. 

Hence  it.i?  Uiat,  sometimes  not  liking  my  hmguage,  (as  not  pro- 
per and  expressive  enough,)  he  substituted  his  own,  with  little  or  no 
variation  of  matter ;  and  sometimes  adds  new  passages :  some 
whereof  I  could  formerly  have  inserted,  but  because  I  perceived  my 
book  (as  the  reader  is  sensible  by  the  price  thereof)  grown  abeady 
to  too  great  a  volume. 

When  additional  notes  frequently  occur,  I  conceive  myself  not 
obliged  in  the  least  degree  to  return  an  answer  thereunto,  as  being 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


298  APPRAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCEN&fi.  PART  I. 

lather  besides  than  against  what  I  have  written.  Hawevev,  it  I  liaye* 
left  out  any  thing,  it  would  have  been  auspeeted  I  had  omitted  that 
which  most  had  made  against  me ;  to  prevent  which  jealousy,  such 
additional  notes  are  also  here  verbatim  represented. 

To  such  as  objeot,  that  the  Animadvertor^s  additions  are  supple* 
tory  of  the  defects  in  my  Church^History,  I  answer,  that  a  defect 
properly  is  absentia  debiti  adessey  ^^the  absenoe  pf  what  ought  to  be 
there  ;  *'  so  that  a  thing  is  maimed  or  lame  with<M;Lt  it. 

But  additions  to  an  history  are  reducible  to  these  two  heads, 
namely,  either  1.  Such  as  they  must  without  imperfection  be 
added :  2.  Such  as  they  ma^  without  impertinency  be  added. 

Few,  if  any,  of  the  former,  some  of  the  latter,  kind  are  found  in 
the  Animadvertor'^s  additory  notes.  And  let  me  tell  him,  that  if  lie 
writes  books  against  all  who  have  written  books,  and  [who]  have  not 
written  all  which  may  be  said  of  their  subject,  he  may  even  write 
against  all  who  have  ever  written  books ;  and  then  he  will  have  work 
enough. 

Let  us  go  no  &rther  than  to  his  own  ^^  Geography ;  ^  being  sore 
he  is  too  judicious  to  be  so  conceited  of  his  own  pains,  as  to  think 
he  hath  inserted  all  that  may  be  said  of  so  laige  a  su}y*ect. 

The  story  is  well  known  of  ^sop^s  master,  who,  buying  two 
l^ervants  together  in  the  market-place,  d^nanded  of  one  of  them, 
what  he  could  do.  He  answered,  that  he  would  do  all  things,  do  all 
things  f  Then  the.  other,  (^sop  himself,)  be^pg  asked  what  he 
could  do,  answered,  he  could  do  nothing.  His  master  seeming 
angry  to  keep  so  unprofitable  a  servant,  *♦  How  can  I,''  returned 
^sop,  *^  do  any  thing,  when  my  fellows-servant  will  do  all,  and 
leave  me  nothing  to  do  ? ''  * 

If  Dr.  Heylin  hath  done  all  things  i|i  his  ^^  Geography,^  he  bath 
given  a  writ  of  ease  for  ever  to  posterity,  who  may  despair  to  merit 
more  of  that  matter.  Ail  who  hereafter  shall  write  a  new  bod(  of 
Geography,  must  also  find  out  a  new  world  with  Columbus,  as 
anticipated  by  the  doctor,  having  formerly  completed  all  on  that 
subject. 

I  presume  not  to  say,  that  I  have  in  my  Ghurch^History  done  a0 
things ;  having  written  many  and  most  material  passages,  leaving 
the  rest  to  others.  But  this  I  say,  that  all  things  left  out  in  a  his- 
tory are  not  wanting ;  neither  are  all  things  wanting,  defects,  if  not 
essential  thereunto.  As  for  some  of  the  Animadvertor^s  added  notes, 
they  are  no  more  needfiil  or  useful  than  a  sixth  finger  to  a  man^s 
hand,  as  (God  willing)  in  due  time  shall  appear. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


CULLER'S  1NTRO0UCTION.  299 

CHAPTER  Xn, 

Thai  the  AtUhor  desiffned  unto  MtMelfno  Parfyfleasing  in  tcriting 
his  Ohurch-HiBtory. 

PA&T1AX.XT7  18  coDstantly  disiged  on  me  by  the  AminadTertor, 
and  once,  vitli  a  iritness,  as  fiJlowetli  :«^- 

^^  We  see  by  this,  as  by  like  passages,  which  way  our  autbo?^s 
bowl  is  biased ;  how  constantly  he  declares  himself  in  dvoor  of 
those  who  have  either  separated  fiom  the  churchy  or  appeared 
against  it."" — Heylin's  Eaamen^  part  i.  page  257* 

I  return,  (to  prosecute  his  metaphor,)  that  I  have  used  as  upright 
bowls  as  ever  any  that  enter  the  alley  of  History,  since  our  civil 
dissensions. 

I  do  freely  declare  myself,  that  I,  in  writing  my  book,  am  for  the 
church  of  England,  as  it  stood  established  by  law ;  the  Creed  being 
the  contracted  Articles,  and  the  Thirty-nine  Articles  the  expanded 
Creed  of  her  doctrine,  as  the  Canons  of  her  discipline.  And  still  I 
prize  her  &Your  highest,  though  for  the  present  it  be  least  worth, — 
as  little  able  to  protect,  and  less  to  prefer,  any  that  are  fittthfnl  to 
her  interest*     ^ 

As  for  pleasing  of  parties,  I  never  designed  or  endeavoured  it 
There  were  a  kind  of  philosophers  caUed  Meetidt  which  were  of 
sone,  yet  of  all,  sects ;  and  who  would  not  engage,  in  gross,  in  the 
opinions  of  any  philosophers,  but  did  pick  and  choose,  here  and  there^ 
^t  th^  found  ccmsonant  to  truth,  either  amongst  the  Stoks,  Pe- 
ripatetics, Academics,  or  (misinterpreted)  Epicures,  receiving  that;, 
and  rejecting  the  rest  Such  my  project,  to  commend  in  all  parties 
what  I  find  praiseworthy,  and  condemn  the  rest ;  on  which  aceou&t» 
some  fleer,  some  frown,  none  smile  upon  me. 

First.  For  the  Papists,  though  I  malice  not  their  persons,  and 
have  a  pity  (as  God,  I  hope,  hath  a  mercy)  for  many  amongst  them; 
yet  I  do,  as  occasion  is  ofiered,  dislike  their  ^crors,  whereby  I 
have  incurred  and  (according  to  their  principles)  deserved  their 


The  old  Nonconformists— being  the  same  with  the  modern 
Presbyterians,  but  depressed  and  under,  as  the  modem  Presbyt^iana 
are  the  old  Nonconformists,  but  vertical  and  in  aiuthoiity— do 
(though  the  Animadvertor  twitteth  me  constantly  to  advocate  for 
ihm)  take  great  and  general  exception  at  me;  uid  it  Is  not  l<^g 
Bince,  in  a  meeting  of  the  most  eminent  amongst  them,  I  was  tol4 
that  I  put  too  much  gall  into  my  ink  against  them. 

The  Independent,  being  the  Benjamin  of  parties,  (and  his  mess 
I  assure  you  is  none  of  the  least,  Gen,  xliii.  44,)  taxeth  me  for  too 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


300  APPEAL  OF  INJUKBD  INNOCENCE.  PABT  I. 

much  fieriness,  as  the  Animadvertor  (in  his  Expression  lately  cited) 
chai^th  me  for  too  much  &YOur  unto  them. 

Thomas  lord  Coventry,  when  coming  from  the  chancery  to  sit  down 
at  dinner,  was  wont  to  say,  "  Surely,  to-day  I  have  dealt  equally, 
for  I  have  displeased  both  sides.'*  I  hope  that  I  have  his  happiness, 
(for  I  am  sure  I  have  his  unhappinessy}  that,  having  disobliged  all 
parties,  I  have  written  the  very  truth.  Thus  I  can  only  privately 
comfort  myself  in  my  own  innocence,  and  hope  that,  when  my  head 
is  laid  low,  what  seems  too  sweet,  too  bitter,  too  salt,  too  fresh  to 
the  present  divided  age,  will  be  adjudged  well-tasted  and  seasoned 
to  the  palate  of  unpartial  posterity. 


CHAPTER  XIII. 

What  Oood  the  Animadvertor  mighty  but  would  not,  do  ;  and  wkd 

Goody  by  Cfod'*g  Goodness,  he  herein  hath  done  unto  the  Author. 

When  the  Animadvertor  had  perused  my  book,  marking  some 
(but  making  more)  faults  therein,  it  was  in  his  power  to  have  done 
me  a  pleasure,  the  greatest  he  could  give,  or  I  receive ;  namely, 
not  to  paradigmatize  me ;  but,  by  letter  in  an  amicable  way,  to 
impart  my  mistakes  unto  me^  that  I  might  amend  them  in  my  next 
edition.  Say  not,  "  He  owed  me  no  such  thing ;  '^  who  would  have 
beheld  it  not  as  a  debt  paid  unto,  but  alms  bestowed  upon,  me. 

I  was  not  wholly  without  hope  hereof,  having  found  such  &YOQr 
from  some  worthy  friends.  Had  the  Animadvertor  done  the  like, 
how  had  he  obliged  me  !*  As  the  Society  of  Peter-house  do  pre- 
serve the  pictures  of  their  benefactors  in  their  parlour,  so  would  I 
have  erected  unto  him  a  monument  of  gratitude  in  my  heart,  beside 
my  public  acknowledgment  of  the  courtesy. 

But  it  seems  he  intended  not  my  information,  but  defamation. 
However,  he  hath  done  to  me  a  great  good  turn,  for  which  (because 
not  intended)  I  will  thank  God,  namely,  he  by  his  causeless 
carping  hath  allayed  in  me  the  delight  in  writing  of.  Histories ; 
seeing  nothing  can  be  so  unpartially  and  inoffensively  written,  but 
some  will  carp  thereat^ 

Mothers,  minding  to  wean  their  children,  use  to  put  soot,  woim-" 
^ood,  or  mustard  on  the  nipples  of  their  breasts.  God  foresaw  I 
might  suck  to  a  surfeit  in  writing  Histories,  which  hath  been  a  thief 
In  the  lamp  of  my  life,  wasting  much  oil  thereof.  My  head  and 
hand  had  robbed  my  heart  in  such  delightful  studies.  Wherefore, 
he  raised  the  bitter  pen  of  the  Animadvertor  to  wean  me  from  such 
digressions  from  my  vocation.. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


FULLER'S  INTRODUCTION.  301 

I  now  experimentally  find  the  truth  of  Solomon^s  words :  **  Of 
mking  many  books  there  is  no  end,^  Eccles.  xii.  12.  Not,  but 
Ihai  all  perfect  books  (I  mean  perfect  in  sheets,  otherwise  none  save 
scripture  perfect)  have  /inis  in  the  close  thereof;  or  that  any  author 
is  80  inationa],  but  he  propounds  an  end  to  himself  before  he 
begins  it ;  but  that  in  **  making  of  many  books  there  is  no  end ;  ^ 
that  is,  the  writers  of  them  seldom  or  never  do  attain  that  end 
which  they  propound  to  themselves,  especially  if  squinting  at  sinis- 
jter  ends ;  as  who  is  not  flesh  and  blood  ?'  Such  as  project  wealth 
to  themselves  are  commonly,  by  unwise  managing,  or  casual  mis- 
carriage, impaired  thereby  in  their  estates.  Others  who  designed 
io  themselves  (with  the  builders  of  Babel)  to  get  them  a  name, 
commonly  meet  with  shame  and  disgrace.  Or  else,  when  their 
books  are  ended,  yet  they  are  not  ended ;  because,  though  never 
130  cautiously  written,  some  antagonists  will  take  up  the  bucklers 
against  them,  so  that  they  must  begin  again  after  they  have  ended, 
(or  sink  in  their  credits,)  to  write  in  their  own  vindication :  whicl^ 
18  my  case,  enough  to  take  off  my  edge,  formerly  too  keen,  in 
mining  multiplicity  of  books. 

I  confess,  I  have  yet  one  History  ready  for  the  press,  which  1 
hope  will  be  for  Ood's  glory  and  honour  of  our  nation.  This  new- 
built  ship  is  now  on  the  stocks,  ready  to  be  launched ;  and  being  a 
vessel  of  *^  great  burden,^  Ood  send  me  some  good  adventurers  to 
bear  part  of  the  expense.  This  done,  I  will  never  meddle  more 
with  making  any  books  of  this  nature.  It  is  a  prorident  way, 
before  writing  leave  us,  to  leave  off  writing ;  and  the  rather,  because 
scribblbg  is  the  frequentative  thereof. 

If,  therefore,  my  petitioning  and  optative  Amen  shall  meet  with 
God^s  commissioning  and  imperative  Amen,  I  will  hereafter  totally 
attend  the  concernments  of  my  calling,  and  what  directly  and  imme- 
diately shall  tend  to  the  advance  of  devotion  in  myself  and  in  others, 
as  preparatory  to  my  dissolution  out  of  this  state  of  mortality. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 

That  the  Author  is  unjuMy  charged  by  the  Animadvertor  for  being 

agreeable  to  the  Times ;  and  how  far  forth  such  Agreeabkness 

is  consistent  with  Christian  Prudence. 

The  Animadvertor  is  pleased  to  charge  me  to  be  a  great  teml 

porizer,  and  agreeable  to  the  times.*  In  order  to  my  defence  herein, 

let  me  premise  this  distinction :-— That  there  is  a  sinful  and  sinless 

agreeableness  with  the  times,  be  they  never  so  bad. 

m 
*  Page  266,  towardi  the  bottom  thereof. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


gO^  APPfiAL  OF  INJUEED  INNOCENCE  PART  I. 

It  is  a  gihful  agreeabten^s,  when  people,  for  their  private  profit 
or  safety,  or  both,  are  resolved  in  belief  and  life,  faith  and  &ct; 
doctrine  and  manners,  to  be  the  same  with  the  times ; — how  con- 
trary soever  they  be  unto  the  will  and  word  of  God.  B^  it  Bible, 
or  Talmud)  or  Alcoran^  or  Mass-book,  or  Common-prayer  book, 
or  Directory;  any>  many,  all,  or  no  manner  of  Gfod^s  public 
irervice  ;^*-4o  them,  all  is  alike,  and  equally  embraced. 

But  there  is  also  a  rinlesB^  yea,  lawful  and  necessary,  offrseablenm 
00  the  times;  insomuch  that  no  meaner  Father  than  St.  Ambrose^ 
or  worse  critic  than  Erasmus,  read  the  text  Romans  xii.  11, 
AskeuovTii  Tm  xoupS^  **  Serving  the  time.''  A  reading  countenanced 
by  the  context :  "  Rejoicing  in  hope,  patient  in  tribulation,  cofn- 
tinuing  in  prayer ;  ^  all  being  directions  of  our  demeanour  in  dan- 
gerous times.  And  even  those  who  dislike  the  reading  as  felse, 
defend  the  doctrine  as  true ;  that  though  we  must  not  be  slaves 
and  vassals,  we  may  be  servants  to  the  times,  so  far  forth  as  not  to 
disserve  God  thereby. 

This  sinless  and  lawful  agreeableness  with  the  times  is  partly 
passive,  partly  active. 

1.  Pamte  chiefly  eonsisteth  in  bearing  and  forbearing. 

Bearing,  in  paying  all  pecuniary  burdens  imposed ;  it  being 
but  equal  (in  my  opinion)  there  to  return  tribute  where  we  receive 
protection.  I  doubt  not  but  in  this  point  even  the  Animadvertor 
himself  is  agreeable  to  the  times,  going  along  with  the  rest  of  his 
neighbours  in  their  paying  of  all  public  taxes. 

FoRBEAKiKo  cxprcsseth  itself,  First,  in. silence.  The  Spanish 
proverb,  true  at  all — ^is  necessary  in  dangerous— times  :  "  Where 
the  mouth  is  shut,  no  fly  doth  enter.***  Yea,  the  Spirit  of  God  giveth 
his  servants  this  counsel :  "  Therefore  the  prudent  shall  keep  silence 
in  that  time,  for  it  is  an  evil  time,^  Amos  v.  13.  Thus,  holding 
of  one^s  peace,  that  is,  using  no  provoking  language  against  the 
present  power,  procureth  holding  of  one's  peace,  that  is,  retaining 
and  possessing  of  one's  safety  and  quiet. 

Secondly.  Forbearing  eonsisteth  in  refraining  (though  not  with- 
out secret  sorrow)  from  some  laudable  act  which  he  heartily  desireth, 
but  dares  not  do,  as  visibly  destructive  to  his  person  and  estate, 
being  prohibited  by  the  predominant  powers.  In  such  a  case  a 
man  may— to  use  the  apostle's  phrase,  ItoL  rijv  ive^SxroLv  avayxijv, 
"  for  the  present  necessity,"  1  Cor.  vii.  26 — omit  many  things 
pleasing  to,  but  not  commanded  by,  that  God  who  preferreth  mercy 
before  sacrifice. 

For  instance :  If  any  earthly  prince  or  power  should  enjoin  a 
Christian  (as  Darius  did  Daniel)  not  to  pray  to  God  "  for  the  space 
of  thirty  days  together,''  Dan.  vi.  7 ;  his  command  is  not  to  be 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


l^tiLLKR'S  INTllODtJCtl6N.  303 

obeyed,  as  ^otitratjr  to  Ood^s  positive  precept :  "  Pray  coniinatlly,^* 
1  Thess.  y.  17-  But  it  he  should  only  enjoin  him  to  Forbear  such 
a  form  of  prayed,  allowing  him  liberty  to  use  any  other ;  I  conceive 
that  such  an  omission  lawful,  dictated  unto  him  by  the  principles  of 
prttdence,  for  his  self-preservation. 

2.  The  aetiw  part  of  lawfiil  agreeableness  with  the  times,  is  in 
doing  what  they  enjoin,  as  being  indifferent;  and  sometimes  so 
good,  that  our  own  conscience  doth  or  should  enjoin  the  same.  In 
such  a.  case,  where  there  is  a  concurrence  of  both  together,  it  is 
neither  dishonesty  nor  indiscretion  for  one  in  himself  to  conceal  his 
own  inclinationsi  and  publicly  to  put  his  actions  (as  fasting,  thanks^ 
^ying,  preaching,  &c.)  on  the  account  of  conformity  to  the  times ; 
it  being  (as  flattery  to  court,  so  no  less)  folly  to  contemn  and  reject 
tlie  iavour  of  the  times,  when  it  may  be  had  without  the  least  viola-» 
tion,  yea,  possibly,  with  an  improvement,  of  our  own  conscience. 

I  have  endeavon^red  to  steer  my  carriage  by  the  compass  aforesaid ; 
and  my  main  motive  thereunto  was,  that  I  might  enjoy  the  benefit 
of  my  ministry,  the  bare  using  whereof  is  the  greatest  advancement 
I  am  capable  of  in  this  Hfe.  I  know,  all  stars  -are  not  of  the  sam^ 
bigness  and  brightness :  some  shine,  some  only  twinkle  $  and  allows 
ing  myself  of  the  latter  size  and  sort,  I  vould  not  willingly  put  out 
my  own  (though  dim)  light  in  total  darkness,  nor  would  bury  my 
half-talent,  hoping  by  putting  it  forth  to  gain  another  half-talent 
thereby,  to  the  glory  of  God,  and  the  good  of  others. 

But  it  will  be  objected  against  me,  that  it  is  suspicious  (at  the  least) 
that  I  have  bribed  the  times  with  some  base  compliance  with  them, 
because  they  have  reflected  so  favourably  upon  me.  Otherwise, 
how  Cometh  it  to  pass,  that  my  fleece,  like  Gideon^  is  dry,  when 
the  rest  t)f  my  brethren  of  the  same  party  are  wet  with  their  own 
tears  ?  I  being  permitted  preaching,  and  peaceable  enjoying  of  a 
parsonage. 

I  answer,  Pirtt,  t  impute  this  peaceableness  I  enjoy  to  God's 
undeserved  goodness  on  my  unworthiness.  "He  hath  not  dealt 
thus  with  all  my  brethren  ,**  above  me  in  all  respects.  God  maketh 
people  iBometimes,  potitu  reperire  qnam  invenire  gratiam^  "  to 
find  the  fevouM  they  sought  not  for.''  If  I  em  one  of  them  whom 
God  hath  made  "  to  be  pitied  of  those  who  carried  me  away 
captive,"  Psalm  cvi.  46,  1  hope,  I  shall  be  thankful  unto  him  ;  and 
others,  I  hope,  will  not  be  envious  at  me  for  so  grtet  a  mercy. 

Next  to  the  fountain  of  God's  goodness,  I  ascribe  my  liberty  of 
pteaching  to  the  favour  of  some  great  friends  God  hath  raised  up 
for  me.  It  was  not  a  childish  answer,  though  the  answer  of  a  child 
to  his  father,  taxing  him  for  being  proud  of  his  new  coat,  "  I  am 
ghkdr  said  he,  "  but  not  proud  of  it."     Give  me  leave  to  be  glad, 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


304  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE,  PART  I 

fthd  joyful  in  mjrself)  for  my  good  friends ;  and  to  desire,  and 
endeayonr  their  continuance  and  increase.  **  A  friend  in  the  eourt 
hath  always  been  accounted  "  as  good  as  a  penny  in  the  council,  as 
a  pound  in  the  purse,''  Nor  will  any  rational  man  condemn  me 
for  making  my  addresses  to  and  improvement  of  them,  seeing  the 
Animadvertor  himself  (as  I  am  informed)  hath  his  friend  in  the 
council ;  and  it  b  not  long  since  he  had  occasion  to  make  use  of 
his  favour. 

;  I  must  not  foiget  "  the  Articles  of  Exeter,"  whereof  I  had  the 
benefit,  living  and  waiting,  there  on  the  king's  daughter  at  the  rendi- 
tion thereof:  Articles,  which,  both  as  penned  and  performed,  verc 
the  best  in  England ;— thanks  to  their  wisdom  who  so  warily  made, 
find  honesty,  who  so  well  observed  them  !  Nor  was  it  (though 
last-named)  least  causal  of  my  quiet,  that  (happy  criticism  to  myself 
as  I  may  call  it  1)  I  never  was  formally  sequestered,  but  vent, 
before  driven  away,  from  my  living ;  which  took  off  the  edge  of  the 
Ordinance  against  me,  that  the  weight  thereof  fell  but  slantingly 
upon  me.  Thus  when  God  will  fasten  a  fevour  on  any  person, 
(though  never  so  unworthy,)  he  ordereth  the  concurrences  of  all 
things  contributive  thereunto. 

AU  I  will  add  is  this, — ^that  hitherto  (and  I  hope,  who  hath 
[kept  J  will  keep  me,  I  speak  it  in  the  presence  of  God)  I  have  not, 
by  my  pen  or  practice  to  my  knowledge,  done  any  thing  unwor- 
thily to  the  betraying  of  the  interest  of  the  church  of  England ;  and 
if  it  can  be  proved,  let  my  mother-church  not  only  "  spit  in  my 
&ce,"  (the  expression,  it  seems,  of  parents  amongst  the  Jews,  when 
they  were  offended  with  their  children  for  some  misdemeanour, 
Num.  xii.  14,)  but  also  "  spew  me  out  of  her  mouth."  Some  will 
say,  **  Such  a  vaunt  savoureth  of  a  pharisaical  pride,"  I  utterly 
4eny  it.  For  even  the  publican,  after  he  came  from  his  confession 
he  had  made  in  the  temple,  "  God  be  mercifiil  to  me  a  sinner," 
liUke  xviii.  13,  had  he  met  one  in  the  outward  court,  accusing  and 
taxing  him  with  such  particular  sins  whereof  he  was  guiltless,  would 
no  doubt  have  replied  in  his  own  just  defence.  And  seeing  I  am 
on  my  purgation,  in  what  the  Schools  term  justitia  causoB,  (though 
Xkoi  personce^)  I  cannot  say  less  (as  I  will  no  more)  in  my  justifi- 
cation. 

Thus  have  I  represented  the  reader  with  the  true  complexion  of 
my  cause ;  and  though  I  have  not  painted  the  face  thereof  with 
false  colours,  I  hope  I  have  washed  from  it  the  foul  aspersion  of 
temporizing  or  sinftd  agreeableness  with  the  times,  which  the 
Animadvertor  causelessly  casts  upon  it. 

So  much  for  my  outward  carriage  in  reference  to  the  times : 
meantime  what  the  tiioughts  of  my  heart  have  been  thereof,  I  am 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


TULLBR  S  INTRODUCTION.  305 

not  boand  to  make  a  discovery,  to  my  own  danger.  Sure  I  am, 
such  vho  are  *'  peaceable  and  fidthful  in  Israel,^  2  Sam.  xx.  19,  may 
nevertheless  be  *^  moumeis  in  Zion,"^  Isaiah  Ixi.  3,  and  grie^re  at 
what  they  cannot  mend,  but  must  endure,  This  also  I  know,  that 
that  spoke  in  the  wheel  which  creaketh  most  doth  not  bear  the 
greatest  burden  in  the  cart.  The  greatest  complainers  are  not 
always  the  greatest  sufferers ;  whilst  as  much,  yea,  more,  sincere 
sorrow  may  be  managed  in  secret  silence,  than  with  quemlous  and 
clamorous  obstreperousness ;  and  such,  who  will  neither  print  nor 
preach  satires  on  the  times^  may  make  elegies  on  them  in  their  own 

£0uls. 


DR.  HEYLIN'S  TITLE-PAGE. 
EXAMEN  HISTOBICUM: 

OA 

A  DISCOVERY  AND  EXAMINATION 

or  TUX 

MISTAKES,  FALSITIES,  ASV  DEFECTS  IN  SOAIE 
MODERN  HISTORY. 

PART  I. 

CONTAINIHO 

NECESSARY  ANIMADVERSIONS 
THE  CHURCH-HISTORY  OP  BRITAIN, 

AND 

THE  HISTORY  OP  CAMBRIDGE, 

TUBT.ISRTD 

BY  THOMAS  FULLER: 

»0R  TOtt^SGATlOS  OP  THE  TRUTH,   THB  €HtrRCH,   AND  THE   INJURED 

CLERa¥. 

Nan  jKtftumus  aU^d  adversiX*  veriUOem :  iedpro  veritate.—^  Cor.  ziii.  8. 
£t  Veritas  quidem  obvia  eH,  ted  requtrenUbus,^  MiK  utius  Fceux  in  Octauio, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


806  APPEAL  OP  INJURJSP  INNOCKNCB.  PART  I. 

,  FuLLZR. — tThe  challenge  is  no  part  of  the*  combaf;  nol  the 
tnoimtebank^s  bill,  of  the  cure.  It  is  answer  enough  to  a  title-page, 
'  to  return,  "  It  is  but  a  title-page.**  Whereas  the  dojctpr  intituleth 
his  notes  on  my  book  ^'  AnimadrersionSy**  know^  flrmwhertere  in 
liatin  signifieth,  "  to  mark  and  oheerre;**  but  rather  bythevay 
xii  reproof  than  afprobation.  And,,  in  a  secondary  sense,  it  im- 
porteth  ."  to  correct^  chastise,  and  severely  to  punish  '*  a  (reputed) 
malefactor ;  as  the  doctor,  in  a  judicatory  of  his  own  erecting, 
(without  any  coramissicm  for  the  same,)  hath  herein  passed  many 
most  heavy  censures  on  me,  before  he  heard  what  I  could  say  in  my 
own  just  defence. 

Whereas  the  Animadvertor  proceedeth  as  foUoweth : — 

ANIMADVERSIONS 

THE  CHURCH-HISTORY  OF  BRITAIN, 
THE  HISTORY  OF  CAMBRIDGE, 

PXIBI.XSHEJ> 

WL  THOMAS  FULLER: 

FOR   VINDICATION   OP   THE  TRtTTH,  THE  CHITRCH,   AND  THE  INJURED 

CLERGT. 

He  hath  done  me  more  right  than  he  was  aware  of,  or  was  willing 
to  do ;  for  those  indeed  were  the  three  principal  motives  of  my 
weak  endeavours  in  my  Church-History.  However,  because  lie 
intended  those  words  to  relate  not  to  my  History,  hut  his  own 
Animadversions  thereon,  let  the  reader  judge  to  which  of  our  two 
works  they  bear  the  best  and  most  proper  reference. 

The  Words  of  St.  Paul,  Nonposmmtis  aliquid  ad'oersis  teritaUmj 
Bed  pro  veritate,  "  We  can  do  nothing  against  th^  truth,  but  for 
the  truths  2  Cor.  xiii.  8,  well  fitted  ihe  mouth  of  the  apostle, 
divinely  incqpiredin  his  writings  only  to  be  a  champion  for  the  truth. 
In  one  sense  I  allow  them  also  applicable  to  the  Animadvertor, 
according  to  the  received  rule,  Illud  possumm^  quod  jure  possumus, 
"  We  can  do  that  which  we  can  lawfully  do."  But  otherwise, 
I  humbly  conceive  that  St»  Paul  could  not,  and  the  Animadvertor 
should  not,  do  any  thing  against  the  truth. 

All  that  I  will  add  is  this, — ^that  although  the  doctor  be  pleased 
to  call  his  notes  "  Necessary  Animadversions,"  (who  can  blame  the 
loving  father  for  giving  his  own  dear  babe  a  good  name  ?)  yet,  upon 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AUrSWBR  TO  HBYLIN*8  QBNERAL  PRBFACB.  307 

serious  examinfttion,  it  will  appear  that  some  of  these  Animadter- 
sions  ought  to  have  been  omitted,  for  the  promotiog  of  piety ;  and 
many  of  them  might  have  been  omitted,  without  any  prejudice  to 
the  truth:    as  in   due  time  and  place,   God  willing,    shall    b« 

observed. 

Dr.  Hetun.— "  A  general  mefacb  the   whole." — It  i» 

Affirmed  of  history  by  the  &mou8  orator,  that  it  b  testis  temporum^ 
*'  the  witness  and  record  of  time,"  by  which  the  actions  of  it  are  trans- 
mitted from  one  age  to  another.  Aiid  therefore  it  concerns  all  those 
^ho  apply  themselves  to  the  writing  of  Histories  to  take  special  care, 
that  aU  things  be  laid  down  exactly,  &ith^ly,  and  without  deviation 
from  the  truth  in  the  least  particular.  F(Mr  if  the  witnesses  be  sub- 
orned, the  record  felsified,  or  the  evidence  wrested,  neither  posterity 
can  judge  rightly  of  the  actions  of  this  present  time,  nor  this  time  give 
a  certain  judgment  of  the  ages  past. 

Fuller. — ^Although  Mr.  Sanderson  is  equally  concerned  with 
myself  in  this  General  Preface,  yet,  because  I  am  beheld  as  the 
principal  malefactor,  I  have  here  presented  it  entire.  I  look  on 
it  tlius  far  as  but  the  flourish  or  illumining  of  a  text  and  initial 
letter,  signifying  nothing  in  itself ;  and  therefore  let  liim  proceed 
to  something  more  material. 

Dr.  Hetlim — ^It  is  therefore  a  good  direction  which  Josephus  the 
historian  gives  us,  and  which  he  followed  as  it  seems  in  his  '^  Jewish 
Antiquities,"  not  only  to  be  careful  that  the  style  be  pleasing,  but  that 
the  whole  work  be  framed  by  the  level  and  line  of  truth.  Nam  qui 
Hiitoriam  ei  rerum  propter  antiquitatem  ohscurarum  expositionem^ 
^c,  «  They,"  saith  he,  "  who  make  profession  to  write  Histories,  and 
to  recite  such  things  as  are  obscured  by  antiquity,  ought  not  only 
«tndioudy  to  conform  their  style,  but  aljso  to  beautify  the  same  with 
ornaments  of  eloquence,  to  the  intent  the  reader  may  converse  iot 
their  writings  with  the  more  delectation.  But,  above  all  things,  they 
must  have  an  especial  care  so  exactly  to  set  down  the  truths  that  they 
who  know  not  how  those  things  came  to  pass  may  be  the  more  duly 
and  fitly  informed."— iin/i^-tti/.  lib.  xiv.  cap-  1. 

Fuller. — I  acknowledge  that  this  is  the  character  of  a  complete 
historian,  to  which  all  in  their  writings  ought  to  aspire  with  their 
hest  endeavours ;  though  I  believe  none  ever  attained  to  the  height 
thereof. 

But  first  I  would  fain  know,  (seeing  these  are  **  necessary  Ani- 
'nadvearsions,'')  what  need  there  was  of  that  long  Latin  line,  (staved 
^ff  at  last  with  an  st  cetera^)  seeing  Josephus  did  write  in  Greek. 
And  if  the  doctof  would  have  presented  us  with  the  original,  it 
should  have  been  in  Greek ;  if  but  with  a  translation,  it  might  only' 
^ve  been  in  English. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


303  APPBAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCBNCB.  PART  I. 

I  behold  Josephua  as  a  wortliy  historian,  whose  meiftory  I 
deservedly  honour ;  yet  herein  he  might  say  with  the  poet,  MmitU 
sum  minor  ipse  meis^  "  He  in  his  practice  fell  fer  short  of  his  pre- 
cepts ; ""  witness  his  inserting  of  this  false  passage,  opposite  to  the 
very  letter  of  the  Old  Testament,  speaking  of  Jehoiakim  king  of 
Judah : — 
*'  And  he  did  what  was  evil  in 


the  sight  of  the  Lord,  according 
to  all  that  his  father  had  done.'*' 
2  Kings  xxiv.  9, 


"  This  man  being  merciful  and 
just  by  his  nature,'^  &c.  Jose- 
THtJSy  Antiq.  Jud.  lib.  xvi.  cap.  9. 


But  because  it  is  not  my  work  to  accuse  Josephus,  (whom  I 
cannot  praise  and  prize  enough,)  but  to  defend  myself  against  the 
Animadvertor,  let  us  proceed. 

Dr.  Hetltx. — ^There  is  another  rule  which  he  bound  himself  to, 
that  is  to  say,  "  Neither  to  omit  any  thing  through  ignorance,  nor  to 
bury  any  thing  in  forgetfulness."  And  all  these  cautions,  well 
observed,  make  a  perfect  History. 

Fuller. — Here  is  the  Elixir  indeed  of  historical  perfection. 
Let  a  glorified  saint  write  such  an  history  of  the  church-triumphant, 
that  so  there  may  be  a  just  proportion  betwixt  the  author  and  his 
subject,  both  being  perfect. 

I  have  met  with  this  distich  made  by  reverend  Bernard  Gilpin,* 
upon  such  sectaries  as  require  exactness  in  our  church  of  England : 

Optant  ut  careat  maculit  EccleHa  cunctit ; 
Prceten*  vita  ne^at,  vitafutura  dahU. 

Thus  Englished  by  bishop  Carleton  : — 

*^  Men  wish  our  church  no  blemish  had  at  all ; 
It  cannot  be  so  here,  in  heaven  it  shaU.'' 

This  is  true  both  of  our  church  and  all  church-histories ;  whereof 
none  without  faults,  and  they  the  best  which  have  the  fewest. 


Db.  Heylin. — But,  on  the  contrary,  there  are  some  who  do  i 
themselves  on  the  style  and  dress,  as  if  their  business  rather  were  to 
delight  the  ear  than  inform  the  judgment :  others,  so  biassed  by  self- 
ends  and  private  interest,  that  they  seem  rather  advocates  to  .plead  for 
some  growing  party,  than  true  reporters  of  affsdrs  as  they  be  before 
them.  Some,  who,  endeavouring  to  be  copious,  clap  all  together  in  a 
huddle  which  is  offered  to  them,  without  relation  to  the  ornaments 
and  attire  of  language ;  and  others,  with  like  carelessness  as  unto 
themselves,  but  greater  inconvenience  as  unto  the  reader,  examine 
not  tbe  truth  and  certainty  of  what  they  write,  so  they  write  some- 
wbat  which  they  think  may  inform  the  reader.  Betwixt  these,  truth 
•  In  his  '♦  Life,"  page  103. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AXSWBE  TO  HEYLIN'S  OSNBRAL  PRBFACB.  309 

is  oftentimes  irreooVerably  lost,  the  reader  led  aside  from  the  ways  of 
venty  into  the  crooked  lanes  of  error ;  and  manj  times  conducted  to 
such  dangerous  precipices  as  may  prove  destractiTe  to  himself,  and 
of  ill  consequence  to  all  those  which  are  guided  by  him.  The  errors 
of  the  understanding,  in  matters  which  may  possibly  be  reduced  to 
practice,  are  for  more  mischievous  than  those  which  do  consist  in  the 
niceties  of  speculation,  and  advance  no  ferther;  which  moved  the 
orator,  not  only  to  honour  History  with  the  attribute  o£  testis  temporum^ 
but  to  style  it  also  by  the  name  of  magistra  vita. 

FuLLEB. — I  remember  when  the  reverend  Vice-Master  of 
Trinity  College  in  Cambridge  was  told  that  one  of  the  scholars 
had  abused  him  in  an  oration.  "Did  he,''  said  he,  "name  me? 
Did  he  name  Thomas  Harrison  ?  '"  And  when  it  was  returned  that  he 
named  him  not ;  «  Then,''  said  he,  "  I  do  not  believe  that  he  meant 
me."  Although  it  is  very  suspicious  that  I  am  the  mark  aimed  at 
in  this  discourse ;  yet  being  not  conscious  of  such  faults  to  myself, 
and  because  I  am  not  named  by  him,  I  will  not  understand  myself 
intended,  till  he  toucheth  me  with  more  personal  particularities. 

Dr.  Hbylin. — ^These  things^  considered  as  they  ought,  have  made 
me  wonder  many  times  at  the  unadvisedness  of  some  late  writers  in 
this  kind,  whose  Histories  are  composed  with  so  much  partiality  on 
the  one  aide,  and  so  much  inadvertency  on  the  other,  that  tliey  stand 
more  in  need  of  a  commentator  to  expound  the  truth,  and  lay  it  clear 
and  open  to  the  view  of  the  reader,  than  either  the  dark  words  of 
Aristotle,  or  any  other  obscure  piece  of  the  ancient  writers.  I  speak 
of  Histories  here,  not  Libels :  Of  which  last  sort,  I  reckon  Weldon  s 
pamphlet,  called  "The  Court  of  King  James;"  and  Wilson's  most 
infamous  Pasquil  of  the  reign  of  that  King ;  in  which  it  is  not  easy  to 
judge,  whether  the  matter  be  more  false,  or  the  style  more  reproachful 
in  all  parts  thereof.  Certain  I  am  we  may  affirm  of  them  as  Cremu- 
tios  Cordus  doth  of  the  "  Epistles  of  Antonins,"  and  the  «  Orations  of 
Brutus :  *  Falsa  quidem  in  Augustum  probra,  sed  multd  cum  acerhiiate 
kabent ;  that  is  to  say,  that  ^^  they  contained  not  only  false  and  dis- 
graceful passages  against  the  honour  of  Augustus,  but  were  appareled 
also  in  the  habit  of  scurrilous  language." — Taciti  AnnaL  lib.  iv. 
With  such  as  these  I  shall  not  meddle  at  the  present,  leaving  their 
crimes  nnto  the  punishment  not  of  an  Index — but  an  Ignis^-^xpurga- 
tortus^  as  most  proper  for  them. 

FuLLEH. — I  am  not  concerned  at  all  in  this  paragraph ;  only 
let  me  add  this  in  the  honour  of  the  deceased  Robert  earl  of  War- 
wick, who  told  me  at  Beddington,  that  when  Wilson's  book  in 
manuscript  was  brought  unto  him,  he  expunged  out  of  it  more  than 
an  hundred  offensive  passaged.  "My  lord,"  said  I,  "you  have 
done  well ;  and  you  had  done  better,  if  you  had  put  out  one  hun- 
dred more." 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


3ia  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  1- 

Db.  HBYLiii. — But  as  for  tbose  whom  either  the  want  of  true 
intelligence,  or  inadvertency  in  not  weighii^  seriously  what  they  were 
^  do,  or  the  too  much  indulgence  to  their  own  affections,  hare  made 
more  capable  of  being  bettered  by  correction^  i  hare  thought  it  more 
agreeable  to  the  rules  of  justice  to  rectify  their  mistakes,  and  re&rm 
their  errors,  than  absolutely  to  condemn  and  decry  their  writii^Sk 

Fuller. — Reforming  of  errors  is  a  specious  and  glorious  design, 
especially  when  proportionable  mean^  arc  used  in  order  thereunto. 
But  of  late  the  word  *'  reformation  ^  is  grown  so  threadbare,  it  hath 
no  nap  left  it,  thereunder  to  cover  foul  acts  to  attain  a  fair  end. 
I  much  suspect  the  Animadvertor  will  prove  suet  a  deforming- 
leformer,  as  our  age  hath  produced  too  many  of  them. 

Dr.  Heylin. — At  this  time  I  have  two  before  me,  whom  I  conceive 
to  stand  in  need  of  such  observations,  by  which  the  truth  may  be  pre- 
served, and  the  clear  face  of  things  presented  to  the  reader's  eye ;  the  one: 
of  them  an  author  of  ecclesiastical,  the  other  of  some  civil,  Histories. 

Ftjxler, — I  cpmmend  the  valour  of  the  Animadv^tor,  to 
combat  with  two  at  once ;  odds,  on  which  Hercules  himself  durst 
not  adventure.  I  also  am  to  deal  with  two,  the  Animadvertor  and 
'  Dr.  Cosins,  but  not  as  a  challenger,  but  in  the  notion  of  a  poor 
defendant ;  and  if  one  be  assaulted  by  two  hundred,  he  may  and 
must  guard  himself  against  them  as  well  as  he  can* 

I>R.  Heylin. — In  both  I  find  the  truth  much  injured,  and  in  one 
the  church.  The  errors  of  the  one  tend  not  to  the  subversion  of  any 
public  interest ;  but,  being  errors,  may  misguide  the  reader  in  the  way 
of  his  knowledge  and  discourse ;  and  therefore  I  have  rectified  him 
with  Some  '^  Advertisements,"  (not  taking  notice  of  such  passages 
as  have  been  made  the  subject  of  some  "  Observations  "  from  another 
hand,)  that  so  he  may  be  read  with  the  greatest  profit* 

Fuller. — This  is  meant  of  Mr.  Sanderson.  I  am  not  so 
devilishly-minded  as  to  desire  all  men  might  be  equally  faulty  with 
myself,  that  so»  being  involved  with  others  in  a  joint-guiltiness  of 
thie  same  degree,  I  might  on  that  account  pretend  to  a  mock  inno- 
cence. If  Mr.  Sanderson's  pen  be  less  peccant  than  mine,  I  con- 
gratult^te  his  condition,  and  provide  to  answer  to  my  own  charge^ 
which  foUoweth. 

Dr.  Heylin. — The  other  (besides  errors  of  this  kind  too  many) 
hath  intermingled  his  discourse  with  some  positions  of  a  dangerous 
nature ;  which,  being  reduced  into  practice,  as  they  easily  may,  not 
only  overthrow  the  whole  power  of  the  church,  as  it  stands  constituted 
and  established  by  the  laws  of  the  land,  but  lay  a  probable  foundatioxt 
for  the  like  disturbances  in  the  civil  state. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANSWER  TO  HEYLIN'S  OSNERAL  PEEFACE.    .  3IL 


FuLLKE.— £!j  mOu  mi  nuniifcw,  qms  iwn0cm$  f  m^  TertuIliaD^ 
To  lUi  doable  indictment  I  plead  ^^  not  guiltj*^  and  put  myself 
on  tbe  trial  of  GK>d  and  good  men,  requesting  the  reader^s  patience 
till  the  proofs  on  both  sides  be  jvoduced. 

Dr.  HBYLiN.-^And  therefore  I  hare  fitted  him  with  some  ^  Ani- 
madyersions"  in  the  way  of  an  Antidote,  diat  so  he  may  he  read, 
if  pd^ble,  without  any  danger. 

Fuller. — Common  custom  hath  overswayed  the  word  "Anti- 
dote ^  to  signify  a  defensative  against,  or  expulsative  of,  poison. 
However^  the  bare  notation  of  the  word  advanceth  no  further  than 
to  import  "  something  ffiven  offainH ; '"  in  which  sense  none  of  our 
iration  hath  been  so  free  of  his  Antidotes  as  the  Animadvertmr ; 
having  given  them  against  Mr.  Calvin,  archbishop  Williams,  arch- 
bishop Usher,  Dr.  Hackwell,  Dr.  Prideanx,  Dr.  Bernard,  Mr. 
Lestrange,  Mr.  Sanderson,  and  my  unworthy  self  ;•— no  shame  to 
follow  in  the  rear  after  such  a  van  and  main-battle. 

Sure  I  am,  his  pretended  Antidote  on  my  book  hath  more  of 
poison  than  cordial  therein,  envenoming  many  plain  and  true  pas- 
sages,  sound  and  solid  sentences,  with  his  false  glosses,  forced- 
inferences,  and  pestilent  applications. 

Dr.  Hetlin. — ^I  know  well  how  invidious  a  task  I  have  undertaken, 
and  that  it  will  be  chaiged  upon  me,  at  the  first  apprehensions  of 
ity  that  I  have  rather  chosen  to  find  fault  with  the  writings  of  others, 
than  to  write  any  things  of  this  kind,  which  may  be  subject  to  the  like 
partialities  and  mistakings.  Carpere  vel  ntii  nostra^  vel  ede  tua^- 
might  come  in  seasonably  here,  if  I  had  not  somewhat  to  allege  for- 
my  justification.  But  when  the  reasons  which  induced  me  to  the  first 
adventure  (mentioned  in  the  Introduction  following)  be  seriously 
considered,  as  they  ought  to  be,  I  hope  I  shall  be  capable  of  excuse 
at  the  least,  if  not  of  pardon. 

Fuller. — The  Animadvertor  hath  here  raised  up,  I  assure  you, 
a  strong  spirit  against  himself;  and  whether  the  spells,  here  used  by 
him,  be  able  to  conjure  it  down  ogain,  others  must  decide  it ;  mean 
time,  fight  Animadvertor,  fight  objection  of  his  own  making,  seeing 
I  have  neither  skill  nor  will  to- interpose  to  part  them. 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^And,  for  my  venturing  on  the  other,  I  shall  say 
nothing  more  at  the  present,  but  that,  as  well  my  love  to  truth,  as  to 
do  right  unto  tbe  author,  (whom  I  would  willingly  look  on  as  n 
nian  well-principledo -and  of  no  ill  affections  to  church  or  state,)  hath: 
inrited  me  to  it. 

Fuller. — Here  my  credit  is  more  deeply  wounded  by  the 
glance  of  a  bulkt,  than  if  it  were  directly  shot  against  me.     For 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ IC 


312  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  I^ 

-whereas  lie  saith,  tkat  he  "  would  wilKngly  look  on  "  Mr.  Sander- 
son ''^  as  a  inaiv  well-principled,  and  of  no  ill  affections  to  church  or 
state,^^  he  concludes  me^  by  plain  intimation,  disaffected  to  both. 
But  I  hope  that  those  who  are  clear-sighted  look  on  me  under  a 
better  notion. 

Db.  HEYi.iN.-*-Trath  is  the  mistress  which  I  serve. 

Fuller. — "  Rough  though  I  am,  I  hare  a  mistress  too,"  and 
her  the  self-same  with  the  AnimadrertorV  Be  it  referred  to  her,  to 
judge  betwixt  us,  which  of  us  hath  [done,]  doth,  or  shall  do  her  the 
better  service  ;  and  let  him  be  received,  the  other  rejected. 

Dr.  Hbylin. — And  I  presume  that  none  will  be  offended  Tfitb 
me  because  I  tell  them  of  their  errors  in  a  modest  way,  and  bear 
witnesa  for  them  to  that  truth  of  which  they  do  profess  themselves 
such  especial  lovers.  In  that  great  disputation  betwixt  the  esquires 
of  the  body  of  king  Darius,  whether  the  king,  wine,  women,  or  the 
truth,  were  of  greatest  power,  the  whole  assembly  cried  out  in  behalf 
of  truth.  Magna  est  Veritas^  et  prcBvalet ;  that  is  to  say,  "  Great  is 
truths  and  mighty  above  all  things." — Esdras  iv.  41. 

FuLLEK. — I  acknowledge  this  a  canonical  truth,  though  writtea 
in  the  Apocrypha.  It  will  soon  be  seen,  who  will  shout  most  at  the 
triumphs  of  truths  I  or  the  Animadvertor,  cor*-rival  with  me  to  the 
same  mistress. 

Dr.  Heylin. — So  that,  in  standing  for  the  truth,  without  consider- 
ation unto  "  the  recompence  of  reward,"  I  hope,,  though  I  meet  some 
adversaries,  I  shall  find  more  friends. 

Fuller. — Here  he  soareth  so  high  a  flight  I  cannot  follow 
him ;  jrea^  I  suspect,  that  in  reaching  so  high  a  note  he  hath 
strained  (if  not  broken)  his  voice.  What,  no  reflection  en  a  reward? 
He  might  have  had  an  intuition  at  it,  as  the  encouragement,  though 
not  the  cause,  of  his  pains ;  he  might  look  at,  in,  through,  and 
beyond  the  reward,  without  the  least  mixture  of  any  mercenariness. 
Sure  I  am,  that  one  of  as  much  meekness,  as  some  are  of  morose- 
ness,  even  upright  Moses  himself,  in  his  service  of  the  essential  and 
increated  truth,  (of  higher  consequence  than  the  historical  truth 
controverted  betwixt  us,)  had  notwithstanding  "  a  respect  to  the 
recompence  of  reward,^  Heb.  xi.  26. 

Dr.  HEYLiy.-^If  not,  (for  I  am  at  a  reasonable  pass  for  that,)  it 
shall  be  no  small  comfort  to  me,  that  the  weak  candle  of  my  studies 
hath  given  light  to  others,  whereby  they  may  discern  some  historical 
truths  even  in  the  darkest  mists  of  error,  which  either  partiality  or 
iuoogitaney  hath  cast  before  the  eyes  of  unwary  readers* 


Digitized  by 


L^oogle 


ANSVSR  TO  HEYLIN'S  QSNEBAt  PRSrACE.  313 

FuLLSft. — The  reader  in  due  lime  will  judge,  whether  his  candle 
bath  by  the  liffkt  thereof  discovered  more  troths,  or  by  the  mnoke 
thereof  darkened  more,  or  given  more  just  offence  by  the  unsavoury 
«»«f^  thereof. 

Da.  Hetxin.— Which  said,  I  shall  now  add  no  more,  but  that, 
Laving  two  patients  under  cure  of  different  tempers,  it  is  not  to  be 
thought  that  I  should  administer  unto  both  the  same  kind  of  physic ; 
an  ordinaiy  purge  being  sufficient  for  the  one,  whereas  the  foul  body 
of  the  other  doth  require  a  fluxing ;  as  s<mie  wounds  may  be  healed 
livith  balm^  when  others,  more  corrupt  and  putrified,  do  exact  a 
lancing. 

Fuller. — Which  said,  I  shall  now  add  no  more,  but  that,  having 
two  adversaries.  Dr.  Heylin  and  Dr.  Cosins  to  encounter,  it  is  not  to 
be  thought  that  I  should  proceed  against  both  alike  ;  Dr.  Cosins  hath 
merited  much  of  the  Protestant  cause  in  France,  and  thereby  com- 
mands my  pen  to  pay  the  homage  of  due  reverence  to  the  crown  of 
his  old  age,  e^ecially  "  when  found  in  the  way  of  truth.^  But  I 
am  not  under  any  such  obligation  of  particdar  respect  to  Dr. 
Heylin  on  the  same  account. 

I  could  wish  he  had  used  a  more  cleanly  metaphor,  and  forborne 
the  phrase  of  *'  fluxing.^  Such  a  cure  appears  not  in  Hippocrates^ 
as  being  a  modem  remedy  for  a  modem  malady.  However,  would 
I  were  but  half  so  holy  as  he  was  of  whom  it  was  said,  ^  An  evil 
disease,  say  they,''  (and  they  did  but  say  it^)  "  deaveth  fast  unt* 
him,""  Psalm  xli.  8. 

I  will  use  no  harsher  metaphor  in  relation  of  my  answers  to  my 
two  antagonists  than  only,  That  men  may  meddle  with  a  mallow 
with  naked  hands,  but  need  to  put  on  their  hedging-gloves  when  to 
deal  with  a  thorn  or  nettle. 

Only  here  I  shall  presume  to  request  the  reader  to  take  especial 
notice  of  those  remarkable  words  of  the  Animadvertor :  ^<  Tell  them 
of  their  errors  in  a  modest  way ;  '^  and  keep  them  against  a  rainy 
day ;  I  mean,  such  a  seasonable  time  as  we  may  make  use  thereof. 

Db.  Hetlin. — ^But  so  it  happeneth  many  times,  that  some  men  are 
more  impatient  of  the  cure,  than  sensible  of  their  diseases ;  and  that, 
instead  of  giving  thanks  to  the  physician,  for  the  great  pains  he  took 
about  them,  they  pay  him  with  nothing  but  displeasures.  Which 
being  the  worst  that  can  befall  me,  I  am  armed  against  it. 

FuLLEJEi. — But  so  it  happeneth  many  times,  that^  as  in  this 
case,  there  may  be  plus  periculi  a  medico  qudm  a  morbo,  "  Mors 
danger  of  the  physician  than  of  the  disease."  A  good  belief  and 
conceit  of  the  physician  is  more  than  half  a  cure ;  and  I  confess  I 
have  none  of  the  Animadvertor ;  whom  I  behold  but  as  an  adventur- 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


314  APPBAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  I. 

0118  empiiie^  hanng  seen  and  marked  his  piactice  on  other  patients, 
lather  disgracing  their  persons  than  amending  their  errors.  Oiye  me 
a  physician  of  my  own.  election,  not  of  his  intrmum;  especially 
when  he  usually  wrappeth  up  his  best  receipts  in  poisoned  fspetk 


Dr.  HsTUK.«-Jf  kjilitt  fanenl  of  my  peace  I  shall  pvocme  tlii» 
Iwnefit  to  ilie  present  and  succeeding  times,-— that  men  may  piove 
more  careful  of  what  they  write,  and  not  obtrude  upon  the  reader 
(either  through  ignorance,  inadrertency,  or  somewhat  worse)  such  and 
so  many  ^Edsities,  mistakes,  and  errors,  as  hare  been  lately  put  upoa 
kim  in  some  modem  histories, — ^it  is  that  I  aimed  at;:  and,  bamg 
gained  that  point,  I  hare  gained  my  purpose. 

Fuller. — But  what  if,  on  the  contrary,  (which  is  more  proba- 
ble,) it  Cometh  to  pass,  that  some,  having  commendable  ioclinatioDS 
and  proportionable  qualifications  to  write  Histories,  perceiviog  their 
books,  Damnatos  anteqmm  natos,  *'  banned  before  botn,''  by  the 
prejudice  which  this  Aniraadyertor  bears  their  parents ;  who  is  ready, 
as  soon  as  their  books  shall  peep  out  of  the  press,  to  assault  them 
with  causeless  (sivils  : — What,  I  say,  if  such  persons,  on  the  tender 
resentment  of  the  premises,  shall  quit  all  their  intentions^  to  write? 
The  Animadvertor  can  little  comfort  himself,  and  others  will  less 
commend  him,  for  this  his  over-activity,  so  destructive  to  the  public 
good.  But  there  are  some,  who,  when  they  can  no  longer  bewitch 
with  their  beauty,  endeavour  to  do  it  with  their  malice,  thereby  to 
render  tl>emselves  in  any  sort  considerable  ;  to  be  feare^^  when  they 
are  no  more  loved.  All  I  will  add  is  this  :  He  who,  already  having 
one  of  his  feet  in  the  grave,  will  spurn  his  brother  with  the  other, 
will  find  few  to  pity  him,  if  falling  all  along  for  his  pains. 

Dr  Hbtlin.— -^Ton  partis  siudiis  agimur,  sed  sumpsimus  arma 
Consiliis  inimicd  tuisy  Ignavmfallax. 

Peter  Hbylin. 

Fuller. — This  distich,  whereof  the  Animadvertor  (by  the  imme- 
diate subscription  of  his  name  thereunto^  may  to  some  seem  the 
author,  is  frequently  cited  by  Mr.  Selden,  and  may  thus  be 
Englished : — 

"  We  serre  no  sides,  nor  parties  seek  to  please^ 
Bat  do  defy  sloth  and  deceiving  ease." 

However,  I  humbly  conceive  that,  what  feults  soever  i  am  guilty 
of,  the  sin  of  sloth  cannot  justly,  especially  in  my  Church-History, 
be  laid  to  my  charge. 

1.  All  passages  of  church-concernment  ficom  the  reign  of  Henry 
III.  until  king  Henry  VI.  I  got  exactly  written  and  attested  out 
of  the  Records  in  the  Tower, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANSWER  TO  HEYLIN'S  NECESSARY  INTRODUCTION.  315 

2.  The  most  material  transactions  in  all  convocations  since  the 
Reformation  till  the  time  of  queen  Elizabeth,  (save  that  sometimes 
the  Journals  be  very  defective,  which  was  no  fault  of  mine,)  I 
transcribed  out  of  the  Registers  of  Canterbury. 

3.  I  have  by  much  labour  procured  many  letters  and  other 
rarities,  which  formerly  never  did  see  the  light,  out  of  the  library 
of  Sir  Thomas  Cotton  and  others. 

4.  The  learned  Mr.  Selden  (on  his  own  desire)  honoured  my  first 
hvLT  Centuries  with  reading,  and  returned  them  naio  me  Mae 
weeks  after,  without  any  conaideiBble  alterations. 

5.  The  best  antiquaries  of  England  (amongst  whom  the  arch- 
bishop of  Armagh,  it  being  not  then  my  happiness  to  be  known  to 
the  learned  and  religious  Sir  R.  Twisden,)  I  consulted  with.  These 
now  I  forbear  to  name,  lest  I  remove  and  derive  the  Animad- 
vertor'^s  anger  on  them  from  myself,  who  am  (though  not  the  most 
able)  the  best-prepared  to  endure  his  displeasure. 

Give  me  leave  to  add,  that  a  greater  volume  of  general  Church- 
History  might  be  made  with  less  time,  pains,  and  cost ;  for  in  the 
making  thereof,  I  had  straw  provided  me  to  bum  my  brick ;  I  mean, 
could  find  what  I  needed,  in  printed  books.  Whereas  in  this  Bri- 
tish Church-History,  I  must  (as  well  as  I  could)  provide  my  own 
straw;  and  my  pains  have  been  scattered  all  over  the  land,  by 
riding,  writing,  going,  sending,  chiding,  begging,  praying,  and 
sometimes  paying  too,  to  procure  manuscript  materials. 

These  particulars  seriously  considered,  I  hope  it  will  appear,  that 
the  Animadvertor  unjustly  chargeth  sloth  on  my  account,  and 
tyrannically  crieth  out  with  Pharaoh,  *'  Ye  are  idle,  idle  are  you,** 
Exodus  V.  17-  Yea,  I  hope,  I  may  alter  the  property  of  the  Ani- 
madvertor^s  distich,  and  turn  his  sword  into  my  shield  after  this 
manner : — 

N<m  partis  stttdiis  agimurj  ted  ttimpsimus  arma 
Consiliis  peramica  tuts,  Jndustria  doctris. 

TuoMAs  Fuller^ 


AN    ANSWER 


DR.  HEYLIN'S  NECESSARY  INTRODUCTION,  &c. 

1.  Dr.  Hetlin.— -Intending  some  short  Animadversions  on  the 
"  Church-  History  of  Britain,"  for  vindication  of  the  truth,  the  church, 
and  the  injured  clergy,  I  have  thought  good  to  prepare  the  way  unto 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


^IQ  APPKAL  OF  IJTJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  I. 

them  by  a  plain  btit  xwccssary  "  Introduction,"  touching  the  quality 
and  nature  of  the  book  which  I  have  in  hand. 

Fuller. — Intending,  God  willing,  to  return  a  true^  clear,  and 
short  answer  to  the  Introduction,  I  conceived  it  requisite  to  premise 
these  few  lines  following. 

The  Animadvertor,  like  a  cunning  market-man,  hath  put  his  best 
com  in  the  top  of  his  sack,  to  invite  chapmen  to  buy  it.  His  Pre- 
face hath  u  decoction  of  his  whole  book  ;  which  was  advisedly  done 
by  him,  hoping  that  those  might  read  his  Preface  whom  he  suspected 
would  never  peruse  his  Book. 

Reader,  as  I  am  loath  any  thing  in  his  book  should  not  be  once 
answered,  so  be  not  offended,  if,  to  avoid  repetition,  I  am  loath  rt 
should  be  twice  answered.  Each  psirticular  in  tlie  Preface  will 
recur  in  the  body  of  the  Book ;  where,  by  GodV  assistance,  no  em- 
phatical  word  nor  syllable  shaH  pass  without  its  respective  reply. 

Nor  hath  the  reader  any  cause  to  suspect,  that,  by  such  shifting^  I 
intend  any  evasion,  by  pleading  in  the  Prefeice  that  I  will  answer 
objections  in  the  body  of  my  Book,  and  alleging  in  the  body  of  my 
Book  that  I  have  answeted  them  in  the  Preface.  For  I  have  to  do 
with  the  Animadvertor,  so  cunning  and  so  exacting  a  merchant,,  that 
it  is  impossible  for  one  indebted  unto  him  to  escape,  without  fiill 
payment,  by  changing  the  place  of  his  habitation. 

However,  the  Animadvertor  hath  dealt  severely  (to  say  no  worse) 
with  me  ;  who,  to  render  me  the  more  culpable,  and  my  book  of  the 
less  credit,  hath  represented  all  my  faults  in  a  duplicating  glass. 
And  whereas  the  Best  of  Beings  non  bis  judicat  in  id  ipmm^ 
"  doth  not  punish  .the  same  faults  twice,^'  he  hath  twice  taxed  every 
supposed  mistake  in  my  History,  once  in  his  Preface,  and  again  in 
the  body  of  hi&  Book. 

Dr.  Heylin. — Concerning  which  the  reader  is  to  understand,  that,  in 
the  year  1642,  Mr.  Fuller  published  his  book  called  "  The  Holy  State ;" 
in  the  preface  whereof  he  lets  us  know,  that  he  should  **  count  it  free- 
dom to  serve  two  apprenticeships  (God  spinning  out  the  thick 
thread  of  his  life  so  long)  in  writing  the  Ecclesiastical  History  from 
Christ's  time  to  our  days."  And  so  much  time  it  seems  he  had  spent 
upon  it,  (excepting  some  starts  for  recreation  in  the  "  Holy  Land,") 
before  he  had  finished  and  exposed  it  to  public  view ;  the  book  not 
coming  out  until  the  year  1655 ;  whether  agreeable  to  his  promise  and 
such  a  tedious  expectation,  we  are  now  to  see. 

Fuller. — My  words  are  by  the  Animadvertor  given-in  defec- 
tively, and  (as  to  me)  disadvantageously ;  this  passage  (which 
ought  to  have  been  inserted)  immediately  preceding  my  promise  : — 
''  If  I  may  be  so  happy  as  to  see  these  gloomy  days  discloudcd 
with  the  beams  of  God's  mercy."" 


Digitized  by 


Google 


gLNSWER  TO  HBYLIN'8  NECE88ABY  INTBOOUCTION.  317 

'  I  appeal  to  the  conscience  of  the  Animadvertor  himself,  whether 
in  his  soul  he  cdnceiveth  these  days  disclouded  or  no.  Gloomy 
they  were  when  I  wrote  those  words,  before  any  war  rained  in  the 
land ;  and  since  such  bloody  showers  have  ended,  they  continue 
lowering,  gloomy,  and  dark  unto  this  day. 

"My  pnwiise  therefore  being  thus  but  conditional,  and  the  condi- 
tien  on  which  it  was  grounded  not  as  yet  performed,  I  ha^e  no  need, 
tiberareftdemy  ^'  to  free  my  &ith,^  which  was  never  bound,  though 
I  had  ever  since  utterly  quitted  all  thoughts  of  writing  any  Church- 
History. 

For  the  first  five  years,  during  our  actual  civil  wars,  I  had  little 
iist  or  leisure  to  write ;  fearing  to  be  made  an  History,  and  shifting 
daily  for  my  safety.  All  that  time  I  could  not  live  to  tiudff^  who 
did  only  study  to  lite. 

So  soon  as  Ood^s  goodness  gave  me  a  fixed  habitation,  I  com* 
posed  my  "  Land  of  Canaan,  or  Pisgah-Sight.''  This,  though  I 
confess  it  be  no  part  of  church-building,  yet  it  is  the  clearing  of  the 
floor  or  foundation  thereof,  by  presenting  the  performances  of  Christ 
and  his  apostles  in  Palestine,  I  perceive  the  Animadvertor  '^  hath 
a  month^s  mind  ^  to  give  me  a  jeer,  for  my  sallying  into  the  Holy- 
Land  ;  which  I  can  bear  the  better,  seeing  (by  Ood^s  goodness) 
that  my  book  hath  met  with  general  reception,  likely  to  live  when 
I  am  dead ;  so  that  fiiends  of  quality  solicit  me  to  teach  it  the 
Latin  language. 

Dk.  Heylxn. — For,  First,  the  reader  might  expect,  by  the  former 
passage,  that  he  designed  the  general  history  of  the  church,  firom  the 
first  preaching  of  Christ,  and  the  calling  of  the  twelve  apostles,  to  the 
times  we  live  in  :  Whereas  he  hath  restnuned  himself  to  the  church 
of  Britain,  which  he  conceives  to  be  so  far  firom  being  founded  in  the 
time  of  Christ,  that  he  is  loath  to  give  it  the  antiquity  of  being  the 
work  of  any  of  the  apostles,  of  any  of  the  seventy  disciples,  or  finally 
of  any  apostolical  spirit  of  those  eldest  times^ 

Puller. — "Charity  begins,  but  doth  not  end,  at  home.**  The 
same  method  was  embraced  in  my  Church- History/  It  began  with 
our  own  domestic  affairs,  to  confute  that  accusation,  commonly 
charged  on  Englishmen,  that  they  are  very  knowing  in  foreign 
parts,  but  ignorant  in  their  own  country.  I  intended  (God  willing) 
to  have  proceeded  to  foreign  churches  ;  but  I  am  discouraged  by 
tbe  causeless  cavilling  at  what  I  have  written  already. 

My  Church-History  beginneth  (for  point  of  time)  indetermi^ 
natdy,  before  the  birth  of  Christ,  (lapping  in,  or  folding  over,  part 
of  Paganism,)  and  presenteth  the  doleful  condition  of  the  Britons, 
whilst  yet  unconverted,  and  grievous  idolaters. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


318  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  I. 

Determinaiely^  my  History  begins  Anno  Domini  Sfjf ;  whict  is  but 
four  years,  after  Christ''8  passion,  and  that  is  yery  early,  I  assure 
you :  Christianity  in  this  island  being  a  timely  riser,  to  be  up  so 
soon,  and  dressing  itself,  whilst  as  yet  (and  many  years  after)  most 
countries  were  fast  asleep  in  pagan  impiety. 

I  deny  not  but  that  apc^tolical  men  were  the  first  foundeis  of 
religion  in  our  land.  But  as  for  such  apostles,  (St.  Peter,  St.  Paul, 
&cT,)  who,  without  probability  of  truth,  and  against  proportion  of 
time,  are  by  some  authors  obtruded  on  us,  those  I  do  reject,  (I 
hope,  without  the  least  fault,)  rendering  my  reasons  for  the  same. 

Dr.  Hbylin* — ^And,  Secondly,  though  be  entitle  it  by  the  name  of 
^*  The  Church-History  of  Britain,"  yet  he  pursues  not  his  design  agree- 
able to  that  title  neither :  there  being  little  said  of  the  affairs  of  the 
church  of  Scotland,  which  certainly  makes  up  a  considerable  part  of 
the  isle  of  Britain ;  and  less,  if  any  thing  at  all,  of  the  church  of  Ire- 
land, which  anciently  passed  in  the  account  of  a  British  island. 

Puller, — I  will  render  the  reader  a  true  account,  why  I  enti- 
tled my  book  "  The  Church-Histoiy  of  Britain.'' 

First.  "  The  Chmdi-History  of  England,''  I  might  not  call  it; 
the  five  first  centuries  therein  belonging  wholly  to  the  Britons  before 
the  name  and  notion  of  England  was  ever  heard  of  in  any  author. 

Secondly.  "The  Church-History  of  Great  Britain,"  I  did  not 
call  it ;  for  fear  of  bringing  in  Scotland  within  the  latitude  thereofi 
— a  compass  too  large  for  my  weak  endeavours. 

Thirdly.  "  The  Church-History  of  Britain,"  I  did  and  might 
call  it,  in  a  double  respect,  tarn  parte  majore^  quam  meliore,  "  both 
from  the  bigger  and  better,"  the  fairer  and  fruitfuUer  part  of  Bri- 
tain, the  ecclesiastical  affairs  whereof  were  therein  contained. 

Yea,  the  Animadvertor  knows  full  well,  that  the  south  of  this 
island,  by  way  of  eminence,  is  so  called.  To  give  one  instance  of 
many  from  the  title-page  of  a  passage  of  state : — 

Nobilissima  disc^tatip  super  dignitate  et  magnitvdine  Begnorum 
Britannioi  et  GaUiciy  habita  ab  utrimque  Oratoribus  et  Legatis^  in 
ConcUio  Comtantiensi : — Lovanii,  cmno  1517,  typis  exctua. 

"  The  most  noble  Dispute  about  the  Dignity  and  Greatness  of 
the  Kingdoms  of  Britain  and  France,  betwixt  the  Ambassadors 
and  Legates  of  both  sides,  in  the  Council  of  Constance ; "  and 
^^anno  1517,  printed  at  Lovaine." 

Here  the  contest  only  was  betwixt  the  crowns  of  England  (here 
termed  Britain)  and  France,  Scotlwd  not  at  all  interesting  itself 
therein. 

It  will  not  be  long  before  the  Animadvertor  (as,  God  willing,  in 
due  time  shall  be  observed)  stickleth  with   might  and  main,  that 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANSWBB  lO  HBTLIN'8  NBCBSSAB7  INTBODUCTION.  31Q 

Lucios  migbt  properly  style  himself,  and  be  styled,  King  of  Bri- 
tain,  ^0  kad  not  an  lulf  of  the  southern  half  of  this  island :  and 
therefore,  by  his  own  principles,  it  is  no  solecism  in  me  to  name 
the  Cis-Tweedan  moiety  thereof  Bbitaik* 

Had  I  giTen  my  native  country  a  narrow  and  restrictive  name,  I 
had  deserved  due  reproof;  but  now,  measuring  the  denomination 
thereof  with  all  honourable  advantage,  I  humbly  conceive  myself 
not  to  fall  under  just  reprehension  for  the  sane. 

,  Da.  Hbtlin. — ^Nor  is  it,  Thirdly,  a  "  Church-History^  rightly  and 
properly  so  called,  but  an  aggregation  of  sudi  and  so  many  hetero- 
geneous bodies,  that  ecclesiastical  affairs  make  the  least  part  of  it. 
Abstracted  firom  the  dress  and  trimming,  and  all  those  outward  em- 
bellishments which  appear  upon  it,  it  hath  a  very  fit  resemblance  to 
that  kdy  of  pleasure  of  which  Martial  tells  us.  Pars  minima  est  ipsa 
puelia  suij  that  ^  the  woman  was  the  least  part  of  herself."  The 
name  of  a  ^  Church-Rhapsody  *  had  been  fitter  for  it ;  though,  to  say 
tmtfa,  (had  it  been  answerable  thereunto  in  point  of  learning,)  it 
might  have  passed  by  the  old  title  of  *^  Fuller's  Miscellanies."  For 
finch  and  so  many  are  the  impertinencies  as  to  matters  of  historical 
nature,  more  as  to  matters  of  the  church,  that  without  them  this  great 
Tolume  had  been  brought  to  a  narrower  compass,  if  it  had  taken  up 
anj  room  at  all.  So  that  we  may  affirm  of  the  present  History,  as  one 
^d  of  the  writings  of  Chrysippus  an  old  philosopher,  namely :  Si  quis 
tollat  e  Ckrysippi  lihris  qua  aliena  sunty  facile  illi  vacua  rdimqm^ 
rentur  pergamena^*  that  is  to  say,  that  ^^  if  tiiey  woe  weQ  purged  of 
all  such  passages  as  were  not  pertinent  to  the  business  which  he  had  in 
hand,  there  .would  be  nothing  left  in  diem  to  fill  up  his  parchments.* 

FuLLBn.*— The  Animadvertor  hath  a  free  liberty  to  name  his 
own  books  ;  aod  I  crav^  the  same  leave  myself  to  denominate  my 

Before  he  had  fiJIen  so  fiercely  on  my  extravagancies  in  the 
Church-History,  he  had  done  well  to  have  defended  his  own,  in  his 
"Geography;*"  sixteen  parts  pf  twenty  tl^prein  being  merely  his- 
torical, and  aliene  from  his  subject  in  the  strictness  thereof.  Sure  I 
am,  Ptolemy,  Strabo,  Pliny,  &c.  in  their  several  descriptions  of  the 
^orld,  have  nothing  to  countenance  the  excursions  about  the  pedi»- 
grees  of  princes,  not  reductive  to  Geography  without  the  great  fiiYour 
of  the  reader  so  to  understand  it. 

But,  because  recrimination  is  no  part  of  purgation,  I  provide 
myself  to  answer  to  all  which  shall  be  objected  for  impertinencies. 

2.  Db.  HEYiiiN. — ^The  first  of  this  kind  which  I  am  to  note,  is  a 
^cre  extrinsecal  and  outside  unto  those  impertinencies  which  are 

•  DiooENES  Laertius  in  Fitd  Chrynppi. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AmuL  cm  ajuMMD  noBOcsssa.  paiti. 

ernAed  iMmz   \  imwiUbi,  cf  Ude-fose^  Th iTii  rfw j  rjii Ilrn,  and 

iiagwdlfedhAnhjamj^mheiammAiLamt;  aniflK&nkeRmlieisDot 
fike to fiad flKUij  Ubnrcn, llioiii^  tfe  vaj be cpeaed.  Iknowitis 
no  mnmial  tfm^  fer  woAm  of  djflerait  aig— eatg,  pnMwhwl  at  gereral 
timeiy  aod  drdicartyd  to  leTccd  penoB^  to  be  dmm  tog^dicr  into  one 
T^teiie;  and,  bog  to  diawii  tqgedia^  to  retain  rtill  dioae  particokr 
titles  and  ^f^f^tf^fff  wUdk  at  Ibat  ^btj  bad.  Baft  I  dare  oonfidentlj 
mj,  ihat  oar  butonan  is  tbe  fiiai^  ivbo^  wntiiig  a  book  of  &e  same  ar- 
gameat,  not  poMiahed  bj  pieoe-meal,  aa  it  came  fiom  bis  band,  but  in 
a  fbn  and  entite  Tdnme,  batbfiDedbis  sheets  inA,  so  manj  tide-leaTes 
and  dedications^  as  we  bare  befise  ns. 

F0LLKA. — I  answer.  First :  Altbongb  it  be  nnkwfiil  eren  for 
tbe  owner  bimsel^  abuii  re  mdy  <<to  abase  wbat  is  bis  own,'' 
because  the  public  batb  an  interest  therein ;  yet,  is  it  not  lawful  for 
me  to  do  what  I  will  with  mj  own  ?  MatL  t.  10. 

Secondly.  The  Animadvertor  pretendeth  in  his  notes  to  rectify 
^^  mistakes,  fidsities,  and  defects;^  this  cometh  not  under  any  of 
these  notions.  And  whereas  he  writeth,  as  he  saith,  <<  for  the  vindi- 
cation of  the  truth,  church,  and  injured  cleigy ;  ^  by  my  dedicating 
of  my  book  to  many  patrons,  the  truth  is  not  prejudiced,  nor  the 
church  wronged,  nor  any  of  the  cleigy  injured. 

Thirdly.  Of  late  some  usefiil  and  cosily  books,  when  past  tbeir 
parents^  power  to  bring  them  forth,  have  been  delivered  to  the  pub- 
lic, by  the  midwifery  of  such  dedications. 

Fourthly.  Many  (if  not  most)  of  my  patrons  invited  themselves 
purposely  to  encourage  my  endeavours ;  and  why  should  any  man  s 
**  eye  be  evil,''  because  theirs  were  "  good  unto  me  ?  '^ 

Lastly.  It  is  all  one  in  effect,  whether  one  printeth  his  dedicar 
tions  to  many  patrons,  or  whether  one  presenteth  a  printed  "  His- 
tory of  St.  Oeorge,''  to  each  English  Knight  of  the  Garter,  with 
a  written  letter  prefixed  to  every  one  of  them  :  ♦  save  that  the 
former  way  is  better,  as  which  rendereth  the  author's  gratitude  the 
more  public  and  conspicuous. 

Dr.  Heyxix. — For  in  this  one  book,  taking  in  **  The  History  of  Cam- 
bridge," which  is  but  an  appendix  to  it,  there  are  no  fewer  than  twelve 
particular  titles,  beside  the  general;  as  many  particular  dedications; 
and  no  fewer  than  fifty-eight  or  sixty  of  those  by-inscriptions,  which  are 
addressed  to  his  particular  friends  and  benefactors;  which  make  it 
bigger  by  forty  sheets  at  the  least,  than  it  had  been  otherwise.  Nay, 
so  ambitious  he  is  of  increasing  the  number  of  his  patrons,  that,  hayiog 
but  four  leaves  to  come  to  the  end  of  his  History,  he  finds  out  a  par- 
ticular benefactress  to  inscribe  it  to :  which  brings  into  my  mind  the 

•  At,  to  the  earls  of  LindBey,  Danby,  &c.  which  I  have  seen  under  the  hand  (A 
the  Auiinadvertor, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANSWBR  TO  HKYLIN'S  NSCBSSART  INTRODUCTION.         321 

Taniiy  of  Vitelliiis  in  bestowing,  and  of  Roscius  Regains  for  accepting, 
the  consular  dignity,  for  that  part  of  the  day  on  which  Cecinna,  by 
order  and  decree  of  the  senate,  was,  degraded  from  it :  of  which  the 
historian  gires  this  note,  that  it  was,  magno  cum  irrUu  accipientis  /n* 
huentisque^  a  matter  of  no  mean  disport  amongst  the  people  for  a 
loDg  time  after. 

Fuller. — ^Ordinaiy  dedications  exceed  not  a  dozen  lines,  and 
therefore  I  believe  the  Animadvertor  is  much  mistaken  in  his 
proportions. 

If  I  did  dedicate  four  leaves  to  a  distinct  patroness,  no  such  fault 
therein  ;  seeing,  I  am  confident,  those  foilr  leaves  contain  in  them 
so  remarkable  an  accident,  as  the  Animadvertor  never  read  the  like 
in  four  thousand  leaves  of  any  historian. 

Db.  Hetlin.— But  of  this  argument  our  author  heard  so  much  at 
the  late  Act  at  Oxford,  that  I  sh^  say  no  more  of  it  at  this  present 
time. 

Fuller. — I  heard  nothing  thereof  at  Oxford,  being  then  sixty 
miles  distanced  thence.  Sure .  I  am,  I  did  not  there  mcUi  atidire 
deservedly,  and  if  undeservedly,  »ia/ay&»ia  beniparta  ddectat. 

Secondly.  I  have  heard  since,  that  one  in  the  Act  was  bold 
to  pl^iy  on  my  own  name  and  Church-History.  But,  for  the  seven- 
teen years  I  lived  in  Cambridge,  I  never  heard  any  Prevaricator 
mention  his  senior  by  name :  we  count  such  particularizing  beneath 
an  University. 

Thirdly.  I  hope  it  will  not  be  accounted  pride,  but  prudence, 
in  me,  to  believe  myself  above  such  trifles,  who  have  written  a  book 
:  to  eternity. 

Fourthly.  I  regret  not  to  be  [the]  anvil  for  any  ingenious 
hammer  to  make  pleasant  music  on ;  but  it  seems  my  traducer  was 
not  so  happy. 

Lastly.  I  remember  a  speech  of  sir  Walter  Raleigh  :  "  If  any,'^ 
saith  he,  "  speaketh  against  me  to  my  face,  my  tongue  shall  give 
nim  an  answer ;  but  my  back-side  is  good  enough  to  return  to  him, 
who  abuseth  me  behind  my  back.*" 

3.  De.  Hbtlin.— -In  the  next  rank  of  impertinencies,  which  are 
inore  intrinsecal,  part  of  the  aid^stance  of  the  work,  I  account  his 
heraldry,  blazons  of  arms,  descents  of  noble  families  with  their 
achievements  intermingled  as  they  come  in  his  way ;  not  pertinent, 
I  am  sure,  to  a  Church-Historian,  unless  such  persons  had  been 
sounders  of  episcopal .  sees  or  religious  houses,  or  that  the  arms  so 
hlazoned  did  belong  to  either. 

Fuller. — I  answer  in  general :  Those  passages  of  heraldry 
^re  put  in  for  variety  and  diversion,  to  refresh  the  wearied  reader. 


Digitized  by 


L^oogle 


322  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  1. 

They  are  never  used  without  asking  of  leave  before,  oi  craYing 
pardon  after  the  inserting  thereof;  and  such  craxing  is  hamng  a 
request  in  that  kind  with  the  ingenuous.  Grant  it  ill-manners  in 
the  author  not  to  ask,  it  is  ill-nature  in  the  reader  not  to  grant,  so 
small  a  suit. 

Mr.  Camden,  in  his  description  of  Oxfordshire,  hath  a  prolix 
(though  not  tedious)  poem,  of  the  marriage  of  Thame  and  Isis, 
which  he  ushereth  in  with,  Si  placet^  vd  legm  tdnegligas^  "  Read  or 
reject ;  '*  either  set  by  it,  or  set  it  by ;  as  the  reader  is  disposed. 

The  same,  though  not  expressed,  is  implied  in  all  such  digres- 
sions, which  may  be  said  to  be  left  unprinted,  in  effect,  to  such  as 
like  them  not :  their  ploughs  may  make  balks  of  such  deviations, 
and  proceed  to  more  serious  matter. 

Dr.  HEYLiN.~Our  author  tells  us,  that  knowledge  in  the  laws  of 
this  land  "  is  neither  to  be  expected  nor  required  in  one  of  his  profes- 
sion ;  "  (vol.  ii.  p.  45  ;)  and  yet,  I  trow,  considering  the  great  influence 
which  the  laws  have  upon  church-matters,  the  knowledge  of  the  law 
cannot  be  so  unnecessary  in  the  wdy  of  a  clergyman,  as  the  study  of 
heraldry.  But,  granting  heraldry  to  be  an  ornament  m  all  them  that 
have  it,  yet  is  it  no  ingredient  requisite  to  the  composition  of  an  eccle- 
siastical history.  The  copies  of  Battle- Abbey  roll,  fitter  for  Stow  and 
HolHnshead,  (where  before  we  had  them,)  can,,  in  an  History  of  the 
Church,  pretend  to  no  place  at  all ;  though  possibly  the  names  of  some 
may  be  remembered,  as  their  foundations  or  endowments  of  churches 
give  occasion  for  it.  The  arms  of  the  knights  errant,  billeted  in  the 
isle  of  Ely,  by  the  Norman  Conqueror,  i»  of  like  extravagancy.  Such 
abo  is  the  catalogue  of  those  noble  adventurers,  (with  their  arms, 
issue,  and  achievements,)  who  did  accompany  king  Eichard  I.  to  the 
war  of  Palestine ;  which  might  have  better  served  as  an  appendix  to 
his  "  History  of  the  Holy  War,*  than  found  a  place  in  the  main  body 
of  an  History  of  the  Church  of  England:  which  three  alone,  besides 
many  intercalations  of  that  kind  in  most  parts  of  the  book,  make  up 
eight  sheets  more,  inserted  only  for  the  ostentation  of  his  skill  in 
heraldry,  in  which  notwithstanding  he  hath  fallen  on  as  palpable 
errors  as  he  hath  committed  in  his  History. 

Fuller. — Mr.  Fox  in  his  "  Acts  and  Monuments''  hath  done 
the  like,  presenting  the  names  of  such  who  came  over  at  the  Norman 
Conquest.  I  have  only  made  their  catalogue  more  complete.  And 
seeing  it  was  preserved  in  Battle-Abbey,  the  very  addition  of 
"Abbey''  doth  dye  it  with  some  ecclesiastical  tincture. 

The  arms  of  the  knights  of  Ely  might  on  a  three-fold  title  have 
escaped  the  Animadvertor's  censure  :  First.  They  were  never  before 
printed.  Secondly.  The  wall  whereon  they  were  depicted,  is  no^ 
demolished.     Lastly.  Each  knight  being  blended  (or  as  I  may  say, 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


ANSWER  TO  HBYLIN'S  NECBSSARY  INTRODUCTION.  323 

empaled)  with  a  monk,  a  moiety  of  tliat  mixture  may    be    con- 
strued reducible  to  Church-History. 

As  for  the  arms  of  some  signal  persons  achieved  in  the  Holy 
War ;  if  the  simame  of  "  War  ^*  be  secular,  the  Christian  name 
thereof  *<  Holy,^  is  ecclesiastical ;  and  so  rendered  all  actions 
therein  within  the  latitude  of  Church-History,  to  an  ingenuous 
reader. 

Dr.  Hrtlin. — For  bendes  those  which  are  observed  in  the  course 
of  this  work,  I  find  two  others  of  that  kind  in  his  **  History  of  Cam- 
bridge," to  be  noted  here.  For,  he  telleth  us,  (page  206,)  that  «  Alice 
countess  of  Oxford  was  daughter  and  sole  heir  of  Gilbert  lord  Sam- 
ford,  which  Gilbert  was  hereditary  Lord  Chamberlain  of  England." — 
But,  by  his  leave,  GKlbert  lord  Samford  was  never  the  hereditary 
Chamberlain  of  the  realm  of  England,  but  only  Chamberlain  in  Fee  to 
the  queens  of  England ;  betwixt  which  offices  how  vast  a  difference 
there  is,  let  our  author  judge. 

Fuller. — I  plead  in  my  own  defence,  (according  to  my  last 
General  Answer,)  that  I  have  charged  my  margin  with  my  author, 
Mr.  Parker,*  Fellow  of  Caius  College  in  Cambridge,  one  known  for 
a  most  noble  antiquary,  but  especially  in  heraldry ;  and  I  thought 
that  he  had  lighten  on  some  rare  evidence,  out  of  the  ordinary  road  r 
but,  seeing  he  was  mistaken,  I  will  amend  it  (God  willing)  in  my 
Dczt  editioiL. 

Da.  HsYLiir. — And,  Secondly,  the  honour  of  Lord  Chamberlain  of 
England  came  not  unto  the  earb  of  Oxford  by  that  marriage,  or  by 
any  other,  but  was  invested  in  that  family,  before  they  had  attained 
the  title  and  degree  of  earb :  conferred  by  king  Henry  I.  on  Aubrey 
de  Yere,  a  right  puissant  person,  and  afterwards  on  Aubrey  de  Yere 
his  son,  together  with  the  earldom  of  Oxford,  by  king  Henry  Il.t  con« 
turning  hereditary  in  that  house,  till  the  death  of  Robert  duke  of  Ire* 
land,  the  ninth  earl  thereof  and  then  bestowed  for  a  time  at  the  king  s 
<iiscretioa,  and  at  last  settled  by  king  Charles  in  the  house  of  Lindsey. 

Fuller, — This  is  nothing  confutatory  of  me,  who  never  affirm** 
^  that  the  High-Chamberlainship  accrued  to  the  house  of  Oxford 
by  any  such  match. 

Dr.  Hbylin. — But  because,  being  a  Cambridge-man',  he  may  be 

better  skilled  in  the  earls  of  that  county,  let  us  see  what  he  saith  of 

them ;  and  we  shall  find,  that  "  Richard  Plantagenet,  duke  of  York, 

^as  the  ei^th  earl  of  Cambridge."  (Hist,  of  Camb.  p.  226.)  Whereas, 

I  First,  Richard  duke  of  York  was  not  earl  of  Cambridge. 

Puller — He  vas,  he  was,  he  t^tis;  as  presently  (God  willing) 
will  appear,  beyond  all  doubt  and  contradiction. 

*  In  his  Sceleton  Cantab,  MB.  t  Camden,  in  Oxford,  fol.  389. 

Digitized  by  CjOOQ IC 


324  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCfi.  nKTI. 

Dr.  Heylin — And,  Secondly,  if  he  had  been  such,  he  nmst  have 
been  the  seventh  earl,  and  not  the  eighth.  For  thus  those  earls  arc 
marshalled  in  our  ^'Catalogues  of  Honour,**  and  books  of  henddry ; 
namely,  1.  William  de  Meschines.  2.  John  de  Hainault.  3.  William 
marquess  of  Juliers.  4.  Edmond  of  Langley,  duke  of  York.  5. 
Edward  duke  of  York.  6.  Richard  de  Oonisburgh,  younger  brother 
of  Edward.     7-  James  marquess  Hamilton,  &c. 

Fuller. — Indeed,  they  are  thus  reckoned  up  in  a  late  little 
(and  useful)  book,  entitled,  «'  The  Help  of  History,''  made  (as  I 
am  credibly  informed)  by  the  Animadvertor  himself ;  and  therefore 
by  him  well  styled  "  our  Catalogues  of  Honour.""  But  more 
exact  heralds,  whom  it  concerns  to  be  skilful  in  their  own  profession, 
do  otherwise  account  them. 

Dr.  Heylin.— No  Eichard  duke  of  York  to  be  found  amongst 
them ;  his  father,  Richard  of  Conisburgh,  having  lost  that  title  by 
attainder  which  never  was  restored  to  Richard  his  son,  (though  most 
iraprovidently  advanced  to  the  dukedom  of  York,)  nor  unto  any  other 
of  that  line  and  family. 

Fuller. — I  admire  the  Animadvertor's  peremptoriness  in  this 
point,  when  the  no  less  learned  (but  more  modest)  Mr.  Camden, 
speaking  of  these  earls  in  the  description  of  Carabridgeshire,  saith, 
that,  after  the  death  of  Richard  of  Conisburgh,  "  The  title  of  the 
earl  of  Cambridge,  either  wholly  vanished  with  him,  or  else  lay  hid 
amongst  the  titles  of  Richard  his  son,  who  was  restored  duke  of 
York,  as  kinsman  and  heir  to  his  uncle  Edward  duke  of  York.'^ 

What  he  warily  said  "lay  hid,''  is  found  out  by  such  as  since 
wrote  on  that  subject ;  Mr.  Brooke,  York  herald,  and  Mr.  Augus- 
tine Vincent,  (in  effect,  Mr.  Camden  revised,)  who  writing  cor- 
rections on  Brooke,  concurreth  with  him  in  this  particular: — "F^' 
Richard  of  Conisburgh,  Edward's  brother,  was  after  created  earl 
of  that  place,  [Cambridge,]  and  after  him  another  Richard,  vho 
was  Richard  of  Conisburgh's  son."*  See,  reader,  whatanadver- 
versary  I  have  gotten,  who  careth  not  to  write  against  the  most 
evident  and  avowed  truths,  so  be  it  he  may  write  something 
against  me. 

4.  Dr.  Heylin. — Proceed  we,  in  the  next  place,  to  verses,  and 
old  ends  of  poetry,  scattered  and  dispersed  in  all  parts  of  the  History, 
from  one  end  to  the  other ;  for  which  he  hath  no  precedent  in  any 
historian,  Greek  or  Latin,  or  any  of  the  national  Histories  of  these 
latter  times.  The  Histories  of  Herodotus,  Xenophon,  Thucydides, 
and  Plutarch,  amongst  the  Greeks ;  of  Caesar,  Livy,  Sallust,  Tacitus, 
and  Suetonius,  amongst  the  Latins;  afford  him  neither  warrant  nor 

•  Pages  94,  95. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANSWER  TO  HEYLIN'S  NECESSARY  INTRODUCTION.  325 

example  for  it.  The  like  may  be  affinned  of  Eusebios,  Socrates, 
Sozomen,  Tbeodoret,  Ruffin,  and  Evagrius,  Church-Historians  all; 
though  thej  had  all  the  best  choice,  and  the  most  excellent  poets  of 
the  world  to  befriend  them  in  it :  and  he  that  shall  consult  the  Uis- 
tories  of  succeeding  times,  through  all  the  ages  of  the  church  to  this 
present  daj,  will  find  them  all  as  barren  of  anj  encouragements  in 
thifi  kind  as  the  ancients  were. 

Fuller. — Never  had  Herodotus  given  his  nine  books  the 
names  of  the  nine  Muses,  if  such  was  his  abstemiousness  from 
poetry.  Not  one  of  them,  which  is  ourufAfioKos  in  this  kind ;  and 
there  are  found  in  Clio,  the  first,  no  fewer  than  thirty  verses  of  the 
oracles  of  Pjthia.  As  those  his  books  are  firuitful,  so  his  book  of 
the  Life  of  Homer  hath  a  superfetation  of  them  ;  so  that  if  prose 
be  the  warp,  verses  are  the  woof  thereof.  Whereas  the  Animad- 
vertor  instances  in  Plutarch  ;  open  at  the  Life  of  Theseus,  and  we 
are  presented  with  poetry  therein. 

Bat,  grant  no  precedent  in  this  nature  in  these  authors ;  a  more 
&ee  genius  acteth  in  modem  than  in  ancient  historians,  manumissed 
from  the  servilities  they  were  tied  (or  tied  themselves)  unto.  The 
Animadvertor,  like  another  Empson,  endeavoureth  to  revive  the 
penal  statutes  of  history  against  me,  (so  to  subject  me  to  fine  for 
the  breach  thereof,)  which  time  in  efiect  hath  cancelled. 

Qui  smbit  Aistoridj  soribit  miserk^  if  enslaved  to  all  punctilios 
thereof.  Let  the  Aninoadvertor  keep  those  steel  bodices  for  his  own 
wearing,  and  not  force  them  on  me.  What !  not  a  plait  or  a  ruffle, 
more  or  less,  but  all  must  be  done  in  number,  weight,  and  measure  ! 
according  to  historical  criticism  f  This  is  not  putting  the  book, 
but  the  author  himself,  into  the  press. 

Tacitus  himself  (here  instanced  in)  would  be  tacitus  indeed,  if 
all  politic  sentences  and  prudential  results  were  deleted  in  him, 
being  ^espasses  on  the  preciseness  of  history,  confined  to  matter  of 
fact.  But  well  fare  that  historian  who  will  go  out  of  his  own  way, 
to  direct  his  reader. 

We  know  Pliny,  Solinus,  &c.,  in  their  topographical  description 
of  countries,  are  barren  of  verses.  Let  the  Animadvertor,  on  the 
same  account,  therefore,  charge  Mr.  Camden  for  surcharging  his 
Britannia  with  poetry,  having  but  three  verseless  shires,  (namely, 
Dorset,  Bucks,  and  Westmoreland,)  in  all  England,  and  more 
ttan  fourscore  verses  a-piece  in  the  three  several  counties  of  Berks, 
Oxford,  and  Somerset. 

I^R.  Heylin. — Nay,  v^hereas  bishop  Godwin,  in  his  "Annals," 
gives  us  an  epitaph  of  two  verses  only  made  on  queen  Jane  Seyjnour, 
and  afterwards  a  copy  of  eighteen  verses  on  the  martyrdom  of  arch-r 
bishop  Cranmer ;  he  ushers  in  the  last  with  this  short  apology :  Contra 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


326  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  I. 

morem  Hisiorice  liceat^  quceso^  inserere  ^c.  "Let  me,**  saith te, " I 
beseech  you,  insert  these  following  verses,  though  otherwise  against  the 
rule  and  laws  of  History." — AnnaL  Regina  Marice. 

Fuller. — What,  if  that  worthy  prelate  was  pleased  to  pass  a 
compliment  on  his  reader !  it  followeth  not  that  they  do  vant 
civility,  who  have  less  courtship  in  this  point  than  he  hath.  Let  us 
look  on  his  "Catalogue  of  Bishops,"  which  hath  more  vicinity  with 
my  subject ;  and  there  we  shall  find  (the  bulk  of  the  book  consi- 
dered) more  verses  in  proportion,  than  in  my  Church-History,  on 
the  token  that  where  I  cite  but  four,  he  quoteth  fourteen,  out  of 
Martial,  to  prove  Claudia  Ruffina  a  Briton  and  a  Christian. 

Dr.  Heylin.— But  what,  alas !  were  eighteen  or  twenty  verses, 
compared  with  those  many  hundred,  (six  or  seven  hundred  at  the 
least,)  which  we  find  in  our  author,  whether  to  show  the  universality 
of  his  reading  in  all  kind  of  writers,  or  his  ^ulty  in  translating, 
(which  when  he  meets  with  hard  copies,  he  knows  how  to  spare,)  I 
shall  not  determine  at  the  present. 

FuLLEtt. — If  pieces  of  verses  be  counted  whole  ones,  which  in 
this  point  is  no  charitable  synecdoche,  and  if  translations  be  reck- 
oned distinct  verses,  though  it  is  hard  that  a  man  and  his  shadow 
should  be  accounted  two  different  persons  :— 

And  if  the  verses  in  the  "  History  of  Cambridge  ^  be  adjected, 
though  he  who  banisheth  poetry  out  of  an  University  will  find 
iambics  enough  to  pay  him  for  his  pains  : — 

And  if  the  verses  in  the  "History  of  Waltham-Abbey"  be 
cast  in,  (though  who  shall  hinder,  but  I  will  describe  my  own  parish 
in  prose  or  poetry  as  I  think  fit  ?)  all,  put  together,  will  not  amount 
to  the  number. 

Besides,  many  of  my  verses  may  be  said  to  be  prose  in  effect,  as 
containing  the  religion  of  that  age,  and  therefore  alleged  as  evi- 
dence thereof,  before  the  Norman  Conquest ;  and  no  authority  can 
in  prose  be  produced  which  doth  so  fully  and  clearly  represent  the 
same. 

Other  verses  are  generally  epitaphs  on  some  eminent  churchmen, 
which  could  not  well  be  omitted. 

Dr.  Heyltn — Certain  I  am,  that,  by  the  interlarding  of  his  prose 
with  so  many  verses,  he  makes  the  book  look  rather  like  a  Church- 
Romance,  (our  late  romancers  being  much  given  to  such  kind  of  voxi- 
tures,)  than  a  well-built  Ecclesiastical  History.  And  if  it  be  a  matter 
so  inconvenient  to  put  a  new  piece  of  cloth  on  an  old  garment;  the 
putting  of  so  many  old  patches  on  a  new  piece  of  cloth  roust  be 
more  unfashionable.  Besides  that,  many  of  these  old  ends  are  so  light 
and  ludicrous,  so  little  pertinent  to  the  business  which  he  has  in  hand. 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


ANSWER  TO  HEYLIN'S  NECESSARY  INTRODUCTION.  327 

that  they  serre  only  to  make  sport  for  children.  Cut  puerU  phceas^ 
et  decldmaiiojiasyj  and  for  nothing  dee. 

Fuller.— Had  the  Animadvertor  come  with  a  good  stomach, 
such  huding  had  been  no  bad  cookery.  Certain  I  am  that  a  com* 
ment  admitteih  less  latitude  in  this  kind  than  a  Church-History. 
Certain  I  am  also,  that  a  ^^  Comment  on  the  Creed  ^  is  allowed  less 
liberty  than  other  comments.  Now  the  Animadvertor  hath  bescat- 
tered  his  every  where  with  verses  and  translations.  It  consisteth 
not  with  my  charity  to  miscall  it  '^  a  Creed-Romance,^  accounting 
it  a  sin  so  to  decry  or  disparage  his  useful  endeavours.  The  best 
way  to  discover  the  deformity  of  my  fabric,  is  for  the  Animadvertor 
to  erect  a  more  beautiful  building  hard  by  it ;  that  so  his  rare  and 
regular,  may  shame  my  rude,  piece  of  architecture. 

What,  if  such  mixtures  make  the  garment  (which  also  I  utterly 
<leny)  to  be  less  in  the  feshion,  the  fondling  of  fancy  ?  I  made  it 
not  for  sight  but  service,  that  it  might  be  strong  and  warm  to  the 
wearers  thereof. 

I  stand  on  my  justification,  that  no  such  light  or  ludicrous  verses 
are  to  be  found  in  my  book,  which  render  it  [liable]  to  just  excep- 
tion. But  no  wonder  if  the  bell  clinketh  even  as  the  prejudiced 
hearer  thinketh  thereof. 

5.  Dr.  Hetun. — ^This  leads  me  to  the  next  impertinency, — ^his 
raking  into  the  channel  of  old  popish  l^ends,  written  in  the  darker 
times  of  superstition,  but  written  with  an  honest  zeal,  and  a  good 
intention,  as  well  to  raise  the  reader  to  the  admiration  of  the  person 
of  whom  they  write,  as  to  the  emulation  of  his  virtues.  But,  being 
mixed  with  some  monkish  dotages,  the  most  learned  and  ingenious 
men  in  the  church  of  Rome  have  now  laid  them  by ;  and  it  had  been 
veiy  well  if  our  author  had  done  so  too,  but  that  there  must  be  some- 
thing of  entertainment  for  the  gentle  reader,  and  to  inflame  the  reckon- 
ing which  he  pays  not  for. 

Fuller. — I  have  not  raked  into  the  kennel  of  old  popish 
legends,  who  took  the  clearest  water,  in  this  kind,  out  of  those 
rivers  which  run,  at  this  day,  in  highest  reputation  with  the  Roman- 
ists. I  never  cited  any  legend  but  either  out  of  Harpsfield,  who 
^rote  in  the  last  generation,  and  was  as  ingenuous  as  any  of  his 
persuasion;  or  else  out  of  Hierom  Portee's  Flares  Sanctorum, 
^ho  wrote  some  forty  years,  [ago,]  and  in  high  esteem  with  the 
papists  at  this  day,  as  appears  by  the  dear  price  thereof. 

I  confess,  I  have  instanced  (taking  ten  perchance  out  of  ten 
thousand)  in  the  grossest  of  them,  (that  is  the  fairest  monster 
vhich  is  most  deformed,)  partly  to  show  what  a  spirit  of  delusion 
acted  in  that  age,  partly  to  raise  our  gratitude  to  God,  seeing  such 
lying  vanities  are  now  ridiculous  even  to  children. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


323  APPEAL  OF  INJURBD  INNOCENCE.  PART  I. 

I  believe  not  the  Animsdvertor,  when  saying,  that  "  the  most 
learned  and  ingenious  of  Rome  have  laid  them  aside,^  seeing  Cor- 
nelius k  Lapide  weaveth  them  in  all  along  his  "  Comments,''  and 
king  James  did  justly  complain,  that  Bellarmine  himself  did  mar 
his  "  pretty  books  of  devotion  with  such  legendary  mixtures."' 

Dr.  Heylin.— But,  above  all  things,  recommend  me  to  his  menj 
tales,  and  scraps  of  trencher-jests,  frequently  interlaced  in  all  parts  of 
the  History;  which,  if  abstracted  from  the  rest,  and  put  into  a  book 
by  themselves,  might  very  well  be  served  up  for  a  second  course  to  the 
*'  Banquet  of  Jests,*  a  supplement  to  the  old  book,  entituled,  **  Wits, 
Fits,  and  Fancies;"  or  an  additional  century  to  the  old  "Himdred 
Merry  Tales,"  so  long  since  extant  But  standing  as  they  do,  they 
neither  do  become  the  gravity  of  a  Church-historian,  nor  are  ooDsistciit 
with  the  nature  of  a  sober  argument. 

Fuller. — The  Animadvertor  should  have  rendered  me  liable  to 
just  reproof,  by  instancing  in  one  of  those  tales  so  inconsistent  with 
the  gravity  of  a  Church-Historian ;  which  no  doubt  he  bad  done, 
but  because  he  knew  himself  unable  to  produce  it. 

He  who  is  often  seen  to  snap  hastily  at,  and  feed  hungrily  on,  a 
hard  crust,  will  not  be  believed,  if  bragging  that  he  can  eat  phea- 
sants and  partridges  at  his  pleasure.  And  seeing  the  Animadvertor 
doth  commonly  carp  and  cavil  at  the  silly  shadows  of  seeming  mis- 
takes in  my  book,  it  is  utterly  improbable  he  can,  yet  will  not, 
charge  me  with  a  fault  which  cannot  be  defended. 

But  let  him  at  leisure  produce  the  most  light  and  ludicrous  story 
in  all  my  book,  and  here  I  stand  ready  to  parallel  it  with  as  light,  (I 
say  not  in  the  Animadvertor,  but)  in  as  grave  authors  as  ever  pat 
pen  to  paper. 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^But,  as  it  seems,  our  author  came  with  the  same 
thoughts  to  the  vniting  of  this  present  History,  as  poets  anciently 
addressed  themselves  to  the  vmting  of  comedies,  of  which  thus  my 
Terence : — 

Poeta  cum  primvtm  animum  ad  scribendum  ofpuUt, 
Id  nfti  neffotii  credidU  solum  dart, 
Populo  utplacereni  gttasfecUsetfabuku. 

That  is  to  say, 

"  Thns  poetfl  when  their  mind  they  lint  apply 
In  looser  verse  to  frame  a  comedy, 
Think  there  is  nothing  more  for  them  to  do, 
Than  please  the  people,  whom  they  speak  unto." 

Fuller. — I  admire  that  the  Animadvertor,  who  so  lately  had 
taxed  me  for  writing  and  translating  of  verses,  will  now  do  the  same 
himself.  There  is  a  double  people-pleasing :  one  sordid  and  ser- 
vile, made  of  falsehood  and  flattery,  which  I  defy  and  detest :  the 


Digiti 


zed^LjOOgle 


ANSWER  TO  HETLIN'S  NECESSARY  INTRODUCTION.  329 

other  lawful,  when  men  deliver  and  dress  truth  in  the  most  plausible 
expression.  I  have  a  precedent  above  exception  to  warrant  it,  even 
Solomon  himself:  *<  The  preacher  sought  out  acceptable  words/' 
Eccles.  xii.  10.  This  I  did  and  will  aim  at,  in  all  my  writings  ; 
and  L  doubt  not  but  that  the  Animadvertor's  stationer  doth  hope 
and  desire,  that  he  hath  thus  pleased  people  in  his  book,  for  the 
advancing  of  the  price  and  quickening  the  side  thereof. 

6.  Db.  Heylin.—- In  the  last  place,  proceed  we  to  the  manifold  ex- 
cursions about  the  antiquity  of  Cambridge,  built  on  as  weak  authority 
as  the  monkish  legends,  and  so  impertinent  to  the  matter  which  he  hath 
in  hand,  that  the  most  reverend  Matthew  Parker,  (though  a  Cambridge- 
man,)  in  his  Antiquitates  BriianniccBy  makes  no  business  of  it. 

The  more  impertinent,  in  regard  that  at  the  £Eig-end  of  his  book 
there  follows  a  (fistinct  History  of  that  University,  to  which  all  former 
passages  might  have  been  reduced. 

But,  as  it  seems,  he  was  resolved  to  insert  nothing  in  that  History 
but  what  he  had  some  probable  ground  for ;  leaving  the  legendary  part 
thereof  to  the  Church-Romance,  as  most  proper  for  it.  And,  certainly, 
he  is  wondrous  wise  in  his  generation. 

For,  fearing  lest  he  might  be  asked  for  those  Bulls  and  Chartularies 
which  frequently  he  relates  unto  in  the  former  books,  he  tells  us  in 
"  the  Histozy  of  Cambridge,"  page  83,  That  they  were  burnt  by  some  of 
the  seditious  townsmen  in  the  open  market-place,  anno  1380,  or  there- 
abouts :  so  that,  for  want  of  other  ancient  evidence,  we  must  take  his 
word ;  which  whether  those  of  Cambridge  wiU  depend  upon,  they  can 
best  resolve. 

For  my  part,  I  forbear  all  intermeddling  in  a  controversy  so  clearly 
stated,  and  which  hath  lain  so  long  asleep,  till  now  awakened  by  our 
author  to  beget  new  quarrels.  Such  passages  in  that  History  as  come 
Tmder  any. "  Animadversion,"  have  been  reduced  unto  the  other,  as 
occasion  served ;  which  the  reader  may  be  pleased  to  take  notice  of  as 
they  come  before  him. 

Puller. — Because  omitted  by  archbishop  Parker,  I  have  the 
more  cause  and  reason  to  insert  it :  otherwise,  had  he  handled  the 
subject  before,  the  Animadvertor  would  have  cried  out,  "  Cramhe^'' 
that  there  was  nothing  novel  therein. 

Call  it  (I  pray)  "''- the  fringe^  of  my  book,  be  it  but  for  the 
subject's  sake  whereof  it  treats,  my  dear  mother,  the  University  of 
Cambridge.  • 

I  live  in  the  same  generation  with  the  Animadvertor,  and  1  hope 
shall  acquit  myself  as  honest,  which  truly  is  as  wise,  as  himself. 
'*  Church-Romance  ! ""  Parcius  ista. 

As  I  tell  the  reader  of  the  burning  of  those  original  charters,  so 
in  the  same  place  I  charge  my  margin  with  my  author,  (Dr.  Caius,) 
and  thereby  discharge  myself. 

agitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


330  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  I. 

Doth  the  Animadvertor  now  <^  forbear  all  intermeddling^  therein 
"in  this  controversy?''  Why  did  he  not  forbear . before,  when 
setting  forth  his  last  Geography  some  five  years  since  ?  And  is  it 
not  as  lawful  for  me  to  defend,  as  for  him  to  oppose,  my  mother? 
When,  where,  and  by  whom,  was  this  *'  controversy  so  dearly 
stated  ?  '^  Was  it  by  the  Animadvertor  himself?  Such  a  party  is 
unfit  for  a  judge.  Or  was  it  stated  by  the  Parliament  mentioned 
by  him  prima  Jacobin  when,  as  he  telleth  us,  the  Clerk  was  com- 
manded to  place  Oxford  first.  But,  it  plainly  appears,  it  was  not 
then  so  clearly  decided  but  that  the  question  was  ever  started 
again,  in  the  late  Long  Parliament,  with  arguments  on  both  sides. 
Witness  the  printed  speech  of  sir  Simonds  D'Ewes  on  that  occasion. 

7.  Dr*  Heylin.  — All  these  extravagancies  and  impertinendes 
(which  make  up  a  fifth  part  of  the  whole  volume)  being  thus  dis- 
charged, it  is  to  be  presumed  that  nothing  should  remain~but  a  mere 
Church-History,  as  the  title  promiseth.  But  let  us  not  be  too  pre- 
sumptuous on  no  better  grounds. 

Fuller. — ^The  Animadvertor's  words  mind  me  of  a  memorable 
passage,  which  hereafter  he  hath,  in  his  Animadversions  on  my  sixth 
book,  or  "  History  of  Abbeys.*"—'*  The  intruder  payeth  to  the 
sequestered  minister  but  a  nineteenth  part  instead  of  a  fifth.'^  But 
if  the  fifth  part,  in  relation  to  my  book,  be  here  stated  to  the  same 
proportion  for  the  nineteenth,  yet  will  not  the  Animadvertor's  mea- 
sure be  reconciled  to  the  standard  of  truth. 

Dr.  Heylin. — For  on  a  melius  inquirendum  into  the  whole  course 
of  the  book  which  we  have  before  us,  we  shall  find  too  little  of  the 
church,  and  too  much  of  the  state ;  I  mean,  too  little  of  rfie  ecclesias- 
tical, and  too  much  of  the  civil,  History.  It  might  be  reasonably 
expected,  that  in  a  History  of  the  Church  of  England,  we  should 
have  heard  somewhat  of  the  foundation  and  enlargement  of  cathedral 
churches,  if  not  of  the  more  eminent  monasteries  and  religious  houses; 
and  that  we  should  have  heard  somewhat  more  of  the  succession  of 
bishops  in  their  several  and  respective  sees,  their  personal  endowments, 
learned  writings,  and  other  acts  of  piety,  magnificence,  and  public 
interest,  especially  when  the  times  afforded  any  whose  names  in  some 
of  those  respects  deserved  to  be  retained  in  everlasting  remembrance. 

Fuller. — I  doubt  not  but  the  reader* who  hath  perused  my 
Church-History,  will  bear  me  witness,  that  therein  there  is  a  com- 
petent representation  of  all  these  particulars,  so  far  forth  as  the 
proportion  of  the  book  will  bear. 

Dr.  Heylin. — It  might  have  been  expected  also,  that  we  should 
have  found  more  frequent  mention  of  the  calling  of  national  and  pro- 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


ANSWER  TO  HETLIN'S  NECESSARY  INTRODUCTION.  33I 

vmciai  synods,  with  the  lesult  of  their  proceedings,  and  the  great 
influence  which  thej  had  on  the  eiyil  state,  sparingly  spoken  of  at  the 
best,  and  totally  discontinued,  in  a  manner,  from  the  death  of  king 
Heniy  lY.  until  the  Conrocatiou  of  the  year  1552 ;  of  which  no 
notice  had  been  taken,  but  that  he  had  a  mind  to  question  the  autho- 
rity of  *^the  Book  of  Articles*  which  came  out  that  year,  thoiq;h 
published  as  the  issue  and  product  of  it,  by  the  express  warrant  and 
command  of  king  Edward  Y I. 

Fuller. — ^AIl  councils  before  the  Conquest,  with  their  canons, 
are  completely  (and  the  most  remarkable  after  it)  represented  in  my 
History.  With  what  face  can  the  Animadrertor  say,  that  I  have 
discontinued  the  Acts  of  the  Convocation  till  the  year  1552  P  the 
acts  of  one  critical  Convocation  in  the  27th  of  Henry  YIII.  1535, 
taking  up  no  less  than  eight  sheets  in  my  book,  and  another  in  the 
same  king^s  reign  employing  more  than  a  sheet ! 

Dr.  Heylih.— No  mention  of  that  memorable  Convocation  in  the 
fourth  and  fifth  years  of  Philip  and  Mary,  in  which  the  detgy,  taking 
notice  of  an  Act  of  Parliament  then  newly  passed,  by  which  the  suh- 
jects  of  the  temporality,  having  lands  to  the  yearly  value  of  five  pounds 
and  upwards,  were  charged  with  finding  horse  and  armour,  according 
to  the  proportion  of  their  yearly  revenues  and  possessions,  did  by  their 
sole  authority,  as  a  Convocation,  impose  upon  themselves,  and  tiie  rest 
of  the  clergy  of  this  land,  the  finding  of  a  like  number  of  hones,  armour, 
and  other  necessaries  for  the  war,  according  to  their  yearly  income,  pro- 
portion for  proportion,  and  rate  for  rate,  as  by  tiiat  statute  had  been 
laid  on  the  temporal  subjects. 

Fuller. — I  am  confident  that  this  is  the  self-same  Convocation 
which  is  thus  entered  in  my  Church-History,  book  viii.  vol.  2, 
page  425.  Anno  1557)  quinto  Marice.^-^**'  The  clergy  gave  the 
queen  a  subsidy  of  eight  shillings  in  the  pound,  (confirmed  by  Act 
of  Parliament,)  to  be  paid  in  four  years.  In  requital  whereof,  by 
Pole'*s  procurement,  the  queen  privileged  them  from  showing  their 
horses  with  the  laity ;  yet  so  that  they  should  muster  them  up  for 
the  defence  of  the  land,  under  captains  of  their  own  choosing.'* 

I  cannot  therefore  be  justly  charged  with  no  mention  of  the  Acts 
of  this  Convocation. 

Dr.  Heylin. — And  this  they  did  by  their  own  sole  authority,  as 
before  was  said,  ordering  the  same  to  be  levied  on  all  such  as  were 
refractory,  by  sequestration,  deprivation,  suspension,  excommunication, 
--ecclesiastical  censures  all ;  without  relating  to  any  subsequent  con- 
firmation by  Act  of  Parliament,  which  they  conceived  they  had  no 
Heed  of. 

Puller. — I  took  the  less  notice  of,  and  gave  the  less  heed  to, 
the  transactions  of  the  clergy  therein,  because  then  they  were  in 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


332  APPBAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  I. 

their  haff  and  height,  fiirious  with  fire  and  feggot ;  so  that  all  done 
by  them  de  facto  cannot  be  justified  for  legal ;  who  sometimes  bor- 
rowed a  point  of  law  (even  with  intent  never  to  repay  it)  in  their 
proceedings.  It  may  be  proved  out  of  Mr.  Fox,  that  some  at  that 
time  (by  a  cruel  prolepsis)  antedated  the  burning  of  some  Mar- 
tyrs, before  the  writ  de  hceredoo  combwrendo  came  unto  them. 
Wherefore  all  their  actions  in  that  time  are  not  precedential  to 
warrant  posterity,  and  the  air  of  that  torrid  zone  will  not  fit  the 
bodies  in  our  temperate  climate. 

Dr.  Hbylin. — ^Nor  find  we  any  thing  of  the  Convocations  of  queen 
Elizabeth's  time,  except  that  of  the  year  1562,  (and  that  not  fiurly 
dealt  with  neither,  as  is  elsewhere  showed,)  though  there  passed 
many  canons  in  the  Convocation  of  the  year  1571,  and  of  the  year 
1585,  and  the  year  1597,  all  printed,  and  still  publicly  extant;  besides 
the  memorable  Convocation  of  the  year  1555,  in  which  the  clergy 
gave  the  queen  a  benevolence  of  two  shillings  in  the  pound,  to  be 
levied  by  ecclesiastical  censures,  without  relating  to  any  subsequent 
confirmation  by  Act  of  Parliament,  as  had  accustomably  been  used  in 
the  grant  of  subsidies. 

Fuller.— jff^rwarrffw  rum  mdit  omnia ;  I  could  not  come  to 
the  knowledge  of  every  particular.  But,  I  confess,  I  cannot  con- 
jecture the  cause  of  the  Animadvertor's  retrograde  motion,  who, 
after  so  many  years  in  the  reign  of  queen  Elizabeth,  goeth  back 
again  to  the  year  1555  ;  which  was  four  years  before  she  came  to 
the  crown. 

Dr.  Heylin.— It  might  have  been  expected  also  that  we  should 
have  found  in  a  "Church-History  of  Britain,"  the  several  degrees 
and  steps  by  which  the  heterodoxies  and  superstitions  of  the  church 
of  Rome  did  creep  in  amongst  us ;  and  the  degrees  by  which  they 
were  ejected  and  cast  out  again,  and  the  whole  Reformation  settled 
upon  the  doctrine  of  the  apostles,  attended  by  the  rites  and  ceremo- 
nies of  the  primitive  times. 

Fuller. — I  hope  the  peruser  of  my  book  will  be  sensible  of  no 
defect,  but  that  the  same  in  a  good  degree  is  performed  by  me  on 
several  occasions. 

Dr,  Heyxin. — As  also  that  some  honourable  mention  should  be 
found  of  those  gallant  defences  which  were  made  by  Dr.  Bancroft,  Dr. 
Bilson,  Dr.  Bridges,  Dr.  Cosins,  and  divers  others,  against  the  violent 
batteries  and  assaults  of  the  Puritan  faction  in  queen  Elizabeth's  time ; 
and  of  the  learned  writings  of  bishop  Buckeridge,  bishop  Morton,  Dr. 
Sutcliffe,  Dr.  Burgess,  &c.,  in  justification  of  the  rites  and  ceremonies 
of  the  church  of  England,  against  the  remnants  of  that  scattered  (and 
then  broken)  faction  in  the  time  of  king  James ;  of  which  we  have 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANSWER  TO  HfiVLIN'S  NECESSARY  INTRODUCTION.  333 

"f  gryquidetn,  "not  a  word"  delirered.  Nor  could  it  stand  with 
Ms  design,  (which  will  discorer  itself  in  part  in  this  Introduction,  and 
shall  more  fully  be  discoyered  in  the  "  Animadyersions,*)  that  it  should 
be  otherwise. 

Fuller. — I  answer :  First.  No  drag-net  can  be  so  comprehen- 
siye  as  to  catch  all  fish  and  fry  in  the  river ;  I  mean^  no  historian 
can  descend  to  every  particular. 

Secondly.  What,  if  1  left  that  piece  in  the  dish,  for  manners' 
sake  ?  I  must  not  engross  all  history  to  myself,  but  leave  some  to 
such  as  shall  succeed  me  in  the  same  subject. 

Thirdly.  The  reader  in  perusing  my  book  will  bear  me  witness, 
that  most  of  these  have  their  true  encomiums  on  the  same  account ; 
and  especially  Dr.  Bancroft,  Dr.  Bilson,  Dr.  Cosins. 
.  Fourthly.  If  my  omission  of  his  book  hath  ofiended  bishop  Mor- 
ton, my  (uking  will  be  having  the  pardon  of  so  vivacious  a  piety  ; 
vho,  being  past  the  age  of  a  man,  now  leads  the  life  of  an  angel. 

Lastly.  I  have  a  book  of  "  the  Lives  of  all  English  Worthies,"" 
(God  send  it  good  success  f)  which  had  been  in  print,  if  not 
obstructed  by  the  intervening  of  this  contest;  and,  coming  forth, 
will  be  suppletory  of  all  such  defects. 

Dr.  Hetlin.—- All  which  together  make  it  clear  and  eyident,  that 
there  is  too  little  of  the  Church  or  Ecclesiastical  History  in  our  author  s 
book;  and  that  there  is  too  much  of  the  state  or  dvil  history  will  be 
easily  seen,  by  that  unnecessary  intermixture  of  state  concernments, 
not  pertinent  to  the  business  which  he  hath  in  hand. 

Fuller. — I  answer,  First,  in  general:  Such  the  sympathy 
betwixt  the  two  embracing  twins,  church  and  state,  that  sometimes 
it  is  both  painful  and  pity  to  part  them  ;  more  particularly,  such 
passages  have  at  the  least  a  cast  or  eye  of  church-colour  in  them  ; 
or  else  they  are  inserted  for  necessity,  ne  detur  vacuum^  for  mere 
lack  of  church-matter.  All  the  ecclesiastical  history  in  Mr.  For, 
daring  the  reign  of  Edward  IV.  will  not  fill  his  hollow  pen  ;  the 
cause  why  he  makes  it  up  with  history  of  the  state ;  and  I  some- 
times do  the  like.  Lastly.  It  is  done  for  variety,  (and  then,  com- 
monly, I  crave  the  reader'*s  leave,)  which  I  hope  is  no  oflTence. 
Must  I  turn  schoolboy  again,  and  the  Animadvertor  be  my  school- 
master, to-give  me  a  theme,  that  I  must  write  on  no  other  subject 
but  what  he  appoints  me  ? 

Dr.  Heylin. — Of  this  sort,  to  look  back  no  further,  is  the  long  Will 
and  Testament  of  king  Henry  VIII.  with  his  gloss  or  comment  on  the 
same,  taking  up  three  whole  sheets  at  least ;  in  which  there  is  not  any 
thing  which  concerns  religion,  or  which  relates  unto  the  church  or 
church  affairs ;  although,  to  have  the  better  colour  to  bring  it  in,  he 

Digitized  by  ^OOQl€_ 


*  334  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  I. 

tells  US  that  he  hath  transcribed  it,  not  only  for  the  rarity  thereof,  but 
^  because  it  contained  many  passages  which  might  reflect  much  ligbt 
upon  our  Church-History."  (Book  t.  toI.  2,  p.  116.) 

Fuller. — I  answer,  First:  All  ancient  Wills  have  something 
of  sacredness  in  them,  beginning,'  "  In  the  name  of  God,  Amen.'' 
Secondly.  They  are  proved  in  the  Court-Christian,  which  evi- 
denceth  something  of  ecclesiasticalness  in  them.  Thirdly.  Kings 
have  ever  been  beheld  as  mixed  persons,  wherein  chiuch  and  state 
are  blended  together.  Fourthly.  The  Will  of  king  Henry  VIII. 
in  that  active  juncture  of  times,  is  more  than  the  Will  of  an  ordi- 
nary king.  Fifthly.  It  is  most  remarkable  even  in  Church  History, 
if  only  on  this  account, — to  show  that  he  who  had  violated  the 
testaments  of  so  many  founders  and  benefactors,  had  hardly  any 
one  particular  of  his  own  Will  performed.  Sixthly.  It  never  was, 
and  perchance  (had  I  not  done  it)  never  had  been,  printed. 
Seventhly.  False  and  imperfect  copies  thereof  pass  about  in  manu- 
script. Lastly.  I  have  received  so  much  thanks  from  the  Animad- 
vertor's  betters  for  printing  of  it,  that  I  will  freely  pardon  and  pass 
by  his  causeless  cavil  against  me  for  the  same. 

Dr.  Heylin.— Of  this  sort  also  is  his  description  of  the  pomp  and 
order  of  the  coronation  of  king  Charles,  which  though  he  doth  acknow- 
ledge not  to  be  vrithin  the  pale  and  park  of  ecclesiastical  history,  yet  he 
resolves  to  bring  it  in,  because  it  comes  within  the  purlieus  of  it,  as  his 
own  words  are.  But  for  this  he  hath  a  better  reason  than  we  are  aware 
of,  that  is  to  say :  «  But  if  hereafter  Divine  Providence  shall  assign 
England  another  king,  though  the  transactions  herein  be  not  wholly 
precedential,  something  of  state  may  be  chosen  out  grateful  for  imita- 
tion.- (Church-History,  book  xi.  vol.  3,  p.  344.) 

As  if  the  pomp  and  order  of  a  coronation  were  not  more  punctually 
preserved  in  the  Heralds'  Office,  who  have  the  ordering  of  all  things 
done  without  the  church,  (and  are  eye-witnesses  of  all  which  is  done 
within,)  than  in  our  author's  second-hand  and  imperfect  collections. 

FuLLEE. — I  answer,  First :  A  coronation  is  church-work,  pc^" 
formed  therein  by  an  archbishop,  attended  with  prayers  and  a 
sermon. 

Secondly.    I  never  expected   that  a  chaplain  to  king  Charles 
should   find  fault  with  any  thing  tending  to  the  honour  of  his 
lord.     How  can  any  good  disciple  grudge  at  what  is  expende 
eis  ivTct(pia<rfi.ov,    *'  on  the  burial  of  the  memory''  of  his  master, 
being  the  last  in  this  kind  ?  , 

Thirdly.  My  "  collections,''  I  mean  printed  by  me,  but  observed 
by  my  most  worthy  friend,  are  (abating  only  the  uncertain  P^*^®  ^ 
the  lord  mayor)  most  critically  exact.  ,, 

Lastly.  Though  the  Heralds'  Office  doth  carefully  preserve  al* 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


ANSWER  TO  HKTLIN'S  NECESSARY  INTRODUCTION.         333 

fiucli  ceremonies,  yet  cannot  all  persons  living  at  ^^reat  distance, 
and  desiring  information  herein,  have  on  all  occasions  so  &cile  and 
convenient  access  to  their  office  as  to  my  printed  book. 

Dr.  Hetlin. — ^The  like  may  be  said  also  of  the  quick  and  active 
reigns  of  king  Edward  YI.  and  queen  Maiy;  in  which  the  whole  body 
of  the  Reformed  religion  was  d^^ested,  setded,  and  destroyed ;  suffi- 
cient of  itself  to  make  a  competent  volume,  but  contracted  by  our 
author  (like  Homer's  Iliads  in  the  nut-shell)  into  less  than  twenty-fire 
sheets:  and  yet  in  that  small  abstract  we  find  many  impertinences,  as 
to  the  work  he  hath  in  hand ;  that  is  to  say,  the  great  proficiency  of 
kind  Edward  in  his  grammar-learning,  exemplified  in  three  pieces 
of  Latin  of  bis  making,  when  he  was  but  eight  or  nine  years  old. 

Fuller. — Just  reason  of  such  contraction,  because  of  Mr.  Pox''s 
dilatation  on  the  same.  Where  he  found  my  fault,  he  (if  so 
pleased)  might  have  found  my  defence ;  namely.  If  papists  preserve 
the  nails  and  hairs  of  their  supposed-  saints,  give  me  leave  to  record 
the  first  essays  of  this  pious  prince,  especially  they  being  unprinted 
rarities,  with  which  no  divine  or  scholar,  save  the  Animadvertor 
alone,  would  or  could  have  found  any  fault. 

Dr.  HetIiIN. — ^The  long  narratiye  of  sir  Edward  Mountague,  Chief 
Justice  of  the  Common  Pleas,  to  Tindicate  himself  from  being  a 
voluntary  ageat,  in  the  business  of  the  lady  Jane  Grey  (needlessly 
inserted.) 

Fuller. — King  Edward  VI.'s  passing  the  crown  (over  the 
heads  of  his  two  sisters)  to  his  cousin  the  lady  Jane,  is  a  piece  of 
Church-History ;  because  the  continuing  of  the  protestant  religion 
is  all  the  plausible  plea  for  the  same,  and  the  fair  yamish  of  so  foul 
a  groundwork.  This  passage  of  consequence  is  defectively  delivered 
by  our  Historians,  some  circumstances  thereof  being  hitherto  locked 
from  the  world :  some  have  endeavoured  to  force  the  lock  by  their 
bold  conjectures.  I  am  the  first  that  have  brought  the  true  key 
and  opened  it,  from  Judge  Mountague^s  own  hand,  truly  passive, 
(though  charged  to  be  most  active  therein,)  driven  with  the  tempest 
of  duke  Dudley's  anger,  against  the  tide  of  his  own  inclinations.  I 
prize  a  dram  of  acceptance  from  the  ingenuous  reader,  above  a 
pound  of  the  Animadvertor's  cavilling :  which  is  oflTended  with  my 
inserting  of  so  authentic  and  informative  a  manuscript. 

Dr.  Hrylin.  —  (Needless.)  The  full  and  punctual  relation  of 
Wyat's  rebellion,  and  the  issue  of  it,  though  acted  upon  some  false 
grounds  of  civil  interest,  without  relating  to  religion  or  to  church 
aflyre.  Infinitum  etstt  ire  per  singula^  "  It  were  an  infinite  labour 
to  look  into  all  particulars  of  this  nature,"  which  are  found  in  our 


Digitized  by 


Google 


APPEAL  OP  INJURfiD  INNOCENCE.  PART  I. 

autibor,  and  make  up  a  great  part  of  the  book;  but  we  maj  guess  by 
this  brief  view, '  (as  ex  pede  Herculem^)  that  his  diTersions  upon  cWil 
matters  and  aEedn  of  state,  whi<;h  neither  have  relation  to  nor  any 
influence  at  all  upon  those  of  the  church,  do  make  up  a  consideiable 
part  of  the  rest  of  the  book :  which  ciTil  matters  and  state-conoem- 
ments  being  discharged  also,  (as  in  all  reason  they  ought  to  be,)  we 
next  proceed  to  the  Church-History  itself;  in  which,  if  we  should 
make  the  like  defalcation,  and  expunge  eyeiy  passage  which  is  either 
positively  false  or  ignorantly  mistaken  by  him,  there  would  be  veiy 
little  left  to  inform  the  reader,  as  by  the  following  '^  AnimadTersions' 
will  appear  sufficiently. 

Fuller. — This  rebellion  was  grounded  on  erroneous  priDcipIes 
of  religion,  and  therefore  Goodman  (Ill-man  !)  did,  m  his  book  of 
that  subject,  entitle  it  ^^  God's  cause ;""  and,  though  foully  mistaken 
therein,  it  is  enough  to  reduce  this  design  to  church-concernment. 
Had  I  omitted  it,  the  Animadvertor  would  have  charged  me  with 
Puritanical  (pardon  the  prolepsis)  compliance ;  so  hard  it  is  to 
please  him,  either  full  or  fasting. 

8.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^But  well  it  were,  if  only  aberrations  from  histori- 
cal truth  were  to  be  met  with  in  our  author :  in  whom  we  find  such  a 
continual  rein  of  Puritanism,  such  dangerous  grounds  for  inconfoimity 
and  sedition  to  be  raised  upon,  as  easily  may  pervert  the  unwary 
reader,  whom  the  fiu^tiousness  of  the  style  (like  a  hook  baited  with  a 
painted  fly)  may  be  apt  to  work  on.  Murdering  of  kings  avowed  for  a 
necessary  prudence,  as  oft  as  they  shall  fall  into  the  power  of  their 
subjects.     (Ch.  Hist  Lib.  iv.  vol.  i.  p.  417.) 

Fuller. — The  page  cited  by  him  happily  happeneth  to  be  the 
initial  one  of  a  section,  and  hath  no  more  Uierein  than  as  followeth : 

"Soon  after  his  death,  king  Edward  was  much  lamented  by 
those  of  whom  in  his  lifetime  he  was  never  beloved.  Whether  this 
proceeded  from  the  mere  mutability  of  men^s  mmds,  weary  to  loiter 
long  in  the  lazy  posture  of  the  same  aflTection ;  or  whether  it  pro- 
ceeded from  the  pride  of  Mortimer,  whose  insolence  grew  intoler- 
able; or  whether  it  was  because  his  punishment  was  generally 
apprehended  to  be  too  heavy  for  his  fault ;  so  that  deposition  with- 
out death,  or,  at  the  worst,  death  without  such  unhuman  cnieltyi 
had  been  suflScient. 

^^  One  of  our  English  poet-historians  acquainteth  us  with  a  pas^ 
sage,  which,  to  my  knowledge,  appeareth  not  in  other  authors. 
(Church-History,  book  iv.  vol.  i.  p.  417.) 

This  all  in  that  page. 

Reader,  I  request  thee  do  me,  thyself,  and  truth,  right :  Whether 
can  my  avowance  of  king-murdering  be  collected  from  any  thing 
here  written  by  me  ? 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANSWER  TO  HSTLIN'S  NECESSARY  INTRODUCTION.  337 

Bttt  because  some  will  say,  *'The  quotation  possibly  may  be  mis- 
taken :  ^  if  aoy  tbing  sounding  to  tbat  sense,  there  or  elsewhere,  be 
found  in  my  book,  may  **  the  ravens  of  the  valleys,'^  (whom  I 
behold  as  loyal  subjects,)  in  vindication  of  the  eagle  their  sovereign, 
"  pick  out  my  eyes,''  for  delivering  such  rebellious  doctrine. 

Dr.  Hetlin. — (1.)  The  coronation  of  kings,  and  consequently  their 
succession  to  the  crown  of  England,  made  to  depend  upon  the  suf« 
irage  and  consent  of  the  people.  (Book  xi.  vol.  3,  p.  342.) 

(2.)  The  sword  extorted  from  tiie  supreme  magistrate,  and  put  into 
the  Wds  of  the  common  people,  whensoever  the  reforming  humour 
shall  grow  strong  amongst  them.  (Book  ix.  vol.  2,  p.  439.) 

(3.)  The  church  deprived  of  her  authority  in  determining  contro- 
renies  c{  the  Sedth,  and  a  dispute  raised  against  that  clause  of  the 
Article  in  which  that  authority  is  declared,  whether  forged  or  not 
(Book  ix.  voL  2,  p.  470.) 

Fuller.-^— (1.)  Stylus  a^qtudnlis !   Here  is  a  continued  cham* 

paign,  large  level,  and  fiur  flat,  of  fourteen  untruths  at  least,  without 

any  elevation  of  truth  interposed.     No  such  matter  in  that  place, 

as  Jiereafter  shall  iq)pear. 

(2.)  False  as  the  f(»:mer,  as  in  due  time  and  place  (cited  now, 

afterwaids  by  him  eagerly  improved)  will  appear. 
(3.)  I  am  depraved  unjustly,  who  never  deprived  the  church  of 

her  authority.     I  raised  no  such  dispute,  but  would  have  quelled 

it)  if  in  my   power.     All   which   I  refer  to  my  answer  to  these 

respective  quotations. 

Db.  Hetlin.— Her  power  in  making  canons  every  where  prosti^ 
tuted  to  the  lust  of  the  Parliament^  contrary  both  to  law  and  constani 

practice. 

Fuller. — "  Every  where  ^  is  no  where.  And  seeing  no  parti- 
cular pUce  is  instanced,  to  a  general  charge  a  general  denial  shall 
suffice.  Let  me  add,  that,  whereas  the  Animadvertor  hereafter 
taxeth  me  for  calling  the  two  houses  "  the  Parliament ;  ^*  we  there- 
fore may  presume,  that  he  (not  running  on  the  same  rock)  by  Far- 
Uament  meaneth  "  the  king,  lords,  and  commons  :  ^  which  granted, 
tow  much  of  loyalty  and  discretion  there  is  in  these  his  words, 
"prostituted  to  the  lust,''  let  others  judge. 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^The  [heterodoxies  of  Wickcliife  canonized  for  gos- 
pel, and  Calvin's  opinions  (whatsoever  they  were)  declared  for 
orthodox. 

Puller. — The  Animadvertor^s  words  are  more  than  Apocrypha, 
even  a  very  untruth. 


•  ^i*  ir^ra,  part  3,  "  Appeal  of  Injured  Innocence,"  No.  322, 

/Google 


Digitized  by  ^ 


338  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  I 

Dr.  Hbtlin.-^(1.)  The  Sabbatarian  rigours  publisbed  for  diTine 
and  ancient  truths,  though  there  be  no  antiquitj  nor  diyinitj  in  them. 

(2.)  The  hierarchy  of  bishops  so  coldly  pleaded  for,  as  shows  he  had 
a  mind  to  betray  the  cause,  &c. 

Fuller. — (1.)  Most  &]se,  as  in  due  time  and  place  shall  abun- 
dantly appear. 

(2.)  Weakly,  it  may  be,  for  lack  of  ability ;  not  "  coldly,"  for 
want  of  affection.  But,  rather  than  the  cause  I  so  cordially  wish 
well  to  should  miscarry  by  my  well-intended  weakness,  hencefor- 
ward I  will  stand  by,  and  resign  my  place  at  the  bar  to  better 
pleaders  in  its  behalf. 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^Whilst  all  things  pass  on  smoothly  for  the  Presby- 
terians, whom  he  chiefly  acts  for :  and  this  is  that  which  we  must  look  \ 
for,  par  my  et  par  tout,  as  the  Frenchmen  say.  Nor  deals  he  other-  | 
wise  with  the  persons  which  are  brought  before  him,  than  he  doth  [ 
with  the  causes  which  they  bring.  No  professed  Puritan,  no  conning  j 
Nonconformist,  or  open  Separatist,  comes  upon  the  stage,  whom  he 
follows  not  with  plaudits  and  some  fair  conmiends. 

Fuller. — He  means  Mr.  Cartwright,  Travers,  Stone,  U4al, 
Greenham,  Hildersham,  Dod;  all  (though  dissenting  from  the 
church  in  ceremonies)  eminent  in  their  generations.  I  commend 
them  not  for  their  nonconformity,  but  other  qualities  of  piety,  pain- 
fulness,  learning,  patience,  &c.  Doth  not  Mr.  Camden  give 
Babington  (who  suffered  as  a  traitor  to  queen  Elizabeth)  the  com- 
mendation of  wealth,  wit,  learning,  and  handsomeness  ?  *  Yea, 
doth  not  the  Holy  Spirit  praise  Absalom  for  his  blameless  beauty? 
and  Achithophel  for  his  oraculous  wisdom  ?  The  worst  of  moral 
men  may  be  commended  for  their  naturals,  and  the  worst  of  spi- 
ritual men  for  their  morals. 

Dr.  HsYLiN.^-Whereas  the  FatlK^  of  the  church,  and  the  con- 
formable children  of  it,  are  sent  off  commonly  in  silence,  and  some- 
times with  censure. 

FuLLEE. — The  reader,  by  perusing  my  book,  will  find  I  ha^^ 
embalmed  their  memories  with  my  best  spices. 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^The  late  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  so  eminently 
deserving  of  the  church  of  England,  must  be  raked  out  of  his  gtaye, 
arraigned  for  many  misdemeanours,  of  which  none  could  accuse  him 
when  he  was  alive ;  all  his  infirmities  and  weaknesses  mustered  up 
together,  to  make  him  hateful  to  the  present  and  succeeding  ages; 
when  Mr..  Love's  treasonable  practices  and  seditious  speeches  must 
needs  (forsooth)  be  buried  iii  the  same  earth  with  him. 

Fuller.— .1.  have  in  this  my  "  Appeal  "^  collected  twenty-two 

•  Anno  1^80. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


ANSWER  TO  HEYLIN'S  NECESSARY  INTRODUCTION.  339 

commendations  of  the  archbishop  out  of  my  Church-History,  and 
bad  made  them  up  forty,  saye  that  the  press  prevented  me.  The 
best  is,  ^  what  is  lost  in  the  hundred,  is  found  in  the  shire ;  ^  I 
mean,  may  be  (though  not  in  this  my  defence)  found  in  my  book 

at  large. 

Dr.  Hbylin. — (1.)  The  University  of  Oxford  frequently  quarrelled 
and  exasperated,  upon  slight  occasionil. 

(2.)  Hie  late  king's  party,  branded  by  the  odious  title  of  *'  malig  - 
nanta,*  not  bettered  by  some  froth  of  pretended  wit  in  the  etymology. 

Fuller. — (1,)  When  and  where  ?  Being  now  left  at  large, 
without  any  direction  to  the  place,  I  am  more  troubled  what  my  ■ 
offence  is,  than  what  my  defence  shall  be.  I  am  sure  the  Animad- 
vertor,  as  a  dutiful  son  to  his  mother,  will  in  due  time  and  place 
discover  it,  and,  unwilling  to  antedate  my  own  molestation,  my 
answer  is  deferred  (or  rather  referred)  thereunto. 

(2.)  As  for  my  using  the  term  ^'  malignant,^  in  due  time  I  shall 
Qttke  a  satis&ctory  Answer* 

Da.  HEYLXN.-^The  regular  clergy  shamefully  reproached  by  the 
name  of  "  covetous  conformists."    (Book  ix.  vol.  2,  p.  497.) 

Fuller. — Who  would  not  think,  but  that  (as  the  charge  stand- 
eth  against  me)  I  had  branded  all  conformists  with  the  note  of 
^^covetous.^^^  which  had  been  an  abominable  scandal  indeed* 
Whereas  my  words  only  relate  to  some  particular  persons :  whom, 
if  the  Animadvertor  will  say  they  were  conformists,  (as  indeed  they 
^ere,)  I  dare  swear,  (if  called  thereunto,)  that  they  were  "  covet- 
ous,""  as  who,  by  unreasonable  leases,  (as  the  statute  calleth  them,) 
vasted  the  lands  of  the  church,  till  they  were  seasonably  retrenched 
bj  that  wholesome  law  made  [in]  the  13th  of  Queen  Elizabeth. 

"  Regular  clergy  '^  they  might  be,  (as  the  Animadvertor  termeth 
them,)  in  other  things ;  but,  in  this  particular,  "  regular^  only  to  the 
niles  of  avarice ;  making  such  leases  against  reason  and  common 
equity,  though,  in  the  rigour  of  the  then  law,  justifiable.  I  wonder 
that  the  Animadvertor  will  advocate  for  their  actions,  so  detrimental 
to  the  church. 

Nor  doth  this  dash  the  least  disgrace  on  conformity  itself^  they 
not  doing  it  qua  confonnists.  It  was  not  their  conformity  made 
them  covetous,  (though  perchance  their  covetousness  might  make 
them  conformable,)  but  their  own  corruption. 

But  if  the  epithet  of  "  covetous  ^  be  so  offensive,  I  will,  in  my 
*ext  edition^  to  mend  the  matter,  change  it  into  "  sacrilegious  con- 
fonnity,^  and  justify  my  expression,  according  to  the  principle  of 
8|e  Animadvertor'^s  own  judgment,  because  they  enriched  themselves 
^ith  impairing  the  goods  of  the  church. 

Z    2  Digitized  by  Google 


340  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  I. 

Dr.  Heylin.'— And  those  poor  men  who  were  ejected  by  the  late 
Long  Parliament,  despitefollj  called  ^^  Baal's  priests,  unsavoury  salt, 
not  fit  to  be  thrown  upon  the  dunghill;"  though  he  be  doubtful 
of  the  proofs  which  were  brought  against  them.  (Book  xL  vol.3, 
p.  459.) 

Fuller. — I  have,  at  large,  defended  myself  against  this  foul 
and  false  accusation,  when  the  place  cited  doth  occur. 

Dr.  Heylin. — So  many  of  all  sorts  wronged  and  injured  by  him, 
that  should  they  all  study  their  personal  and  particular  revenges,  he 
were  not  able  to  abide  it ;  and  therefore  we  may  justly  say,  in  the 
poet  s  language  :-— 

Si  de  tot  Uetis  ma  numina  guUque  dearum 
Vindicety  in  pwnas  non  otitis  unu*  erit. 

Which  may  be  Englished  in  these  words  :-«< 

<<  Should  all  mong'd  parties  seek  to'  avenge  thdr  fame. 
One  man  were  not  eoongh  to  bear  the  shame." 

Fuller. — If  I  stand  indebted  to  so  many  for  wronging  of  themj 
the  fairest  way  is  for  them  jointly  to  seize  on  what  I  have;  that  so 
my  small  estate  may  be  shared  amongst  them  all,  so  far  as  it  vill 
go,  and  every  one  have  his  proportion  thereof.  Whereas  now,  the 
Animadvertor  taking  all  (and  more  than  all)  his  pennyworths  out 
of  me,  he  hath  injuriously  dealt  with  the  rest  of  the  creditoKl 
thereby.  However,  I  hope  to  appear  responsible,  (seeing  no  debt 
is  soon  satisfied,)  and  the  Animadvertor  himself  in  due  time  will 
be  found  in  my  debt,  if  all  accounts  be  equally  audited  betwixt  us. 

This  I  dare  boldly  say,  (though  I  confess  his  faults  excuse  nof 
mine,  if  guilty,)  that  he  hath  wronged  more  and  persons  of  higher 
quality,  in  his  late  books.  Bishop  James  Montague,  a  known 
eminent  scholar,  vilified  by  an  odious  and  indiscreet  comparing  him 
with  another  of  his  simanie. 

Judge  Hutton  and  Crook  scandalously  abused  by  him  for  con- 
senting privately  to  the  ship-money,  who  as  well  privately  (in  the 
king's  presence)  as  publicly  opposed  it,  though  they  subscribed 
their  hands,  in  conformity  to  the  greater  number :  as  the  Animad- 
vertor, more  knowing  in  law  tnan  myself,  will  acknowledge  the 
common  and  constant  custom  in  such  cases.  I  could  instance  in 
many  more  ;  it  being  no  discretion  to  play  out  all  1  have  at  once, 
but  to  keep  a  reserve  in  my  hand,  in  case  (which  God  forefend  \)  I 
should  be  provoked  to  another  answer. 

9.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^But  nothing  does  more  evidently  discover  his 
unfaithful  dealing,  than  his  report  of  the  proceedings  in  the  Isle  of 
Wight,  between  his  majesty  and  the  Long-Parliament  divines;  of 
which  he  tells  us,  that  his  majesty,  in  the  last  paper  which  h«  senlr 

Digitized  by  ^OOQ  l€ 


ANSWER  TO  HfiYLIN'S  NECESSARY  INTRODUCTION,  34I 

them,  ^'acknowledged  their  great  pains  to  inform  his  jadgment, 
according  to  their  persuasions,  and  also  took  especial  notice  of  their  ^ 
dTilities  of  the  application,  both  in  the  beginning  and  body  of  their 
reply ;"  (Book  xi.  Yol.  3,  p.  499 ;)  and  having  cleared  himself  from 
some  misunderstanding  about  the  writ  of  partition  which  they  speak 
of^puts  an  end  to  the  business.  The  man  who  reads  this  passage 
cannot  choose  but  think,  that  his  majesty,  being  vanquished  by  the 
aiguments  of  the  Presbyterians,  had  given  over  the  cause  ;  and,  there- 
fore, as  convicted  in  bis  conscience,  rendereth  them  thanks  for  the 
instruction  Which  he  had  received,  and  the  civilities  they  used  towards 
him  in  the  way  thereof.  But  he  that  looks  upon  his  majesty's  last 
paper,  will  find  that  he  had  learnedly  and  divinely  refelled  all  their 
aiguments ;  and  having  so  done,  puts  them  in  mind  of  three  questions 
which  are  proposed  in  his  former  paper^  acknowledged  by  themselves 
to  be  of  great  importance  in  the  present  controversy;  without  an 
answer  whereunto,  his  majesty  declared  that  he  would  put  an  end  to 
that  conference :  "  It  not  being  probable,"  as  he  told  them,  '^that  they 
should  work  much  upon  his  judgment  wiiilst  they  are  fearful  to  declare 
their  own,  nor  possible  to  relieve  his  conscience  but  by  a  free  declaring 
of  theirs."  But  they,  not  able,  or  not  daring,  (for  fear  of  displeasing 
their  great  masters,)  to  return  an  answer  to  those  questions,  his 
majesty  remained  sole  master  of  the  field,  a  most  absolute  conqueror. 
For  though  the  first  blow  commonly  does  begin  the  quarrel,  it  is  the 
last  blow  always  that  gets  the  victory.  But  regium  est^  cum  Benefc' 
ceris  maU  audire :  "  It  hath  been  commonly  the  fortune  of  the  great- 
est princes,  when  they  deserve  best,  to  be  worst  reported." 

Fuller. — Here  I  will  truly  acquaint  the  reader  with  the  state 
of  this  matter*  The  posting  press,  which,  with  the  time  and  tide, 
will  stay  for  no  man,  mistaking  my  copy  complete,  and  not  attend- 
ing my  coming  to  London  that  morning  from  Waltham,  clapt  it  up 
imperfect.  I  must  therefore  deservedly  take  all  the  blame  and 
shame  thereof  on  myself,  and  here  in  this  sheet  do  public  penance 
for  the  same,  promising  amendment  to  the  full,  God  willing,  in  the 
next  edition. 

10.  Dr.  Heylin. — Nor  deals  he  better  with  the  church,  than  he 
does  with  the  king;  concealing  such  things  as  might  make  for  her 
justification,  and  advocating  for  such  things  as  disturb  her  order. 
In  the  last  book  we  find  him  speaking  of  some  heats  which 
were  raised  in  the  church,  about  placing  the  communion-table  altar- 
wise,  and  great  fault  found  for  the  want  of  moderation  in  those  men 
who  had  the  managing  of  that  business.  But  he  conceals  his  majesty's 
determination  in  the  case  of  St.  Gregory's,  Novembers,  1633;  by 
which  all  bishops  and  other  ordinaries  were  encouraged  to  proceed 
therein;  and  consequently  those  of  inferior  rank  to  defend  their 
actings. 

PuLLEB.— I  have  not  full  twenty  lines  on  the  whole  subject, 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


342  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PARTL 

being  loath  to  enlarge  on  so  odious  a  difference,  sopited  in  good 
measure  :  and,  as  I  durst  not  totally  omit,  so  I  passed  it  over  iritk 
all  possible  brevity. 

Dr.  Hetlin. — ^The  chapel  of  Emmanuel  Coll^  in  Cambridge  is 
built  north  and  south,  contraty  to  the  usage  of  the  primitire  timet 
and  the  church  of  England;  with  which  king  James  being  made 
acquainted,  he  answered,  as  our  author  tells  us,  ^'That  it. was  no 
matter  how  the  chapel  stood,  so  the  heart  stood  aright."  Whidi  tale 
being  told  by  him,  and  belieyed  by  others,  (e^  populum^  qui  sibi  credit, 
hahet^  Otidius  in  Epistold  HypgipyL)  as  he  is  like  enough  to  find 
many  belieyers,  farewell  to  all  external  rererence  in  the  service  of 
God.  What  need  we  trouble  ourselves  or  others  with  standing, 
kneeling,  bowing  in  the  acts  of  worship  ?  it  is  no  matter  in  what  pos- 
ture the  body  be,  so  the  heart  he  right. 

Fuller. — ^The  speech  of  king  James  was  no  tale,  but  a  trath ; 
when  he  did  not  exclude  bodily  reverence,  but  prefer  soul-sincerity 
in  divine  service.  Parallel  unto  those  scripture-instances :  "  For 
thou  desirest  no  sacrifice,^  Psalm  li.  26 ;  that  is,  thou  wouldest 
them  not,  comparatively  to  cordial  contrition.  1  Peter  iv.  ^ 
speaking  of  **  good  women,  whose  adorning  let  it  not  be  that  out- 
ward of  plaiting  the  hair  ;^  namely,  not  chiefly  therein,  to  the 
neglecting  of  inward  holiness.  Nor  is  the  speech  inductive  of  cor- 
poral irreverence,  if  believed ;  seeing  a  man^s  body  may  and  ought 
easily,  quickly,  and  cheaply  be  contrived  into  standing,  bowing, 
kneeling;  when  it  requires  time  and  expense  to  take  down  and 
re-build  a  chapel,  which  would  cost  the  college  five  hundred  pounds 
at  the  least. 

11.  Dr.  Hetlin. — ^What  need  we  put  ounelves  or  others  to  the 
chaige  of  surplices  and  hoods,  of  gowns  and  cassocks,  in  the  offidating 
of  God's  service  ?  ^^  It  is  no  matter  in  what  habit  the  body  be,  so  the 
heart  be  right."  There  is  another  chapel  in  Cambridge  which  was 
never  consecrated,  (whether  a  stable  or  a  dormitory,  is  all  one  to  me,) 
at  which  when  some  found  themselves  grieved,  our  author  tells  them 
that  others  of  as  great  learning  and  religion  (himself  especially  for  one) 
"  dare  defend,  that  the  continued  series  of  divine  duties,  pubHdy  prac- 
tised, for  more  than  thirty  years,  (without  the  least  check  or  control 
of  those  in  authority,)  in  a  place  set  apart  to  that  purpose,  doth 
sufficiently  consecrate  the  same."  (History  of  Cambridge,  page  21 7-) 
Stables  and  bams,  by  this  argument,  shall,  in  some  tract  of  time, 
become  as  sacred  as  our  churches. 

Fuller. — Had  I  lived  in  Sidney  College  when  that  dormitory 
was  first  used  for  a  chapel,  I  would  have  advised,  and  (in  my 
sphere)  advanced  its  consecration ;  accounting  the  omission  to  fall 
vnder  just  reproof.     But,  seeing  it  hath  been  so  long  omitted,  I 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


ANSWER  To  HSTLTN'S  NSCB88ART  INTRODUCTION.  343 

How  conceive  it  hath  no  need  of  consecration ;  seeing,  thongh  never 
solemnlj  and  formally  dedicated  to  divine  service  by  the  ordinary, 
(or  one  deputed  by  him,)  yet  hath  it  had  a  tacit  and  interpreta- 
tive consecration,  and  thereby  hath  contracted  a  relative  sacred- 
ness.  By  the  same  proportion  it  is,  that  utensils,  long  used  in 
a  family,  to  most  civil  and  generous  employment,  by  degrees 
acquire  to  themselves  the  reputation  (in  the  apostle^s  language) 
of  ^^  vessels  of  honour;^  as  being  opposed  to  such  vessels  employed 
is  sordid  (though  necessary)  service,  and  of  the  same  metal  and 
matter. 

I  doubt  not  but  if  this  place,  used  for  a  chapel,  (now  about  a 
jubilee  of  years,)  should  be  turned  to  a  stable,  the  Animadvertor 
woold  behold  it  (and  justly  too)  as  a  piece  of  profanation ;  and  this 
intimates  a  sacredness  therein. 

It  is  mainly  material,  that  bishop  Andrews,  of  Ely, — a  reverend 
pTelate,  and  as  knowing  as  any  of  his  order  in  this  point  of  anti- 
quity,—knew  this  to  be  in  his  diocess,  yet  never  manifested  the 
least  regret  at  the  chapelizing  of  this  place. 

As  for  consecration  of  churches  and  chapels,  I  say.  First :  It  is 
BO  sacramental  action. 

Secondly.  It  is  not  of  evangelical  institution,  as  Bellarmine  him- 
self doth  freely  confess  no  express  for  it  in  the  New  Testament ; — 
In  gkUu  wangdii  nan  hab&mus  tam  expreasa  testitnania  soripturw. 
(De  Gultu  Sanctorum,  lib.  iii.  cap.  5.) 

Thirdly.  It  is  charitably  to  be  presumed,  that  when  Dr.  Mon- 
tague and  the  Fellows  first  entered  the  dormitory,  sequestering 
that  place  for  a  chapel,  they,  by  prayers  and  a  sermon,  did  solemnly 
consign  it  to  the  service  of  God ;  seeing  no  man  of  common  prin- 
ciples of  piety  will  offer  to  eat  meat  before  he  hath  said  grace. 

Fourthly.  Such  prayers  did  in  some  sort  dedicate  tho  place, 
luting  no  formality,  save  because  not  done  by  a  bishop ;  and  if 
this  be  all  the  fault  can  be  found  therein,  let  the  Animadvertor 
prove,  (probatio  incumbit  affirmantiO  that,  in  the  primitive  times, 
consecrating  of  churches  was  only  an  episcopal  act- 
Fifthly.  What  was  wanting  in  the  consecration,  at  the  first,  hath 
rince  sufficiently  been  supplied  and  corroborated  by  usance  thereof 
to  God^s  service  only. 

If  factious  people  should,  in  peaceable  times,  against  lawful 
authority,  conventicle  in  a  bam  or  stable,  their  meetings,  sinful  in 
thenaselves,  could  not  derive  any  sacredness  to  the  place  whilst  the 
^orld  lasteth. 

But  if  persecution — ^which  God  of  his  goodness  avert  I  (though 
^c  by  our  wickedness  deserve  it) — should  invade  our  land;  I 
conceive,  stables  are,  by  prayers,  and  presence  of  God's  suffering 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


344  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  I. 

servants^  and  chiefly  by  God^s  presence  with  them,  at  the  mmnte  of  ' 
their  entrance  thither,  derated  into  holy  places. 

Dr.  Hbtlin. — And  if  the  brethren  think  it  not  enoqgh  for  their 
ease  to  be  pent  up  in  so  nairow  a  room,  it  is  but  repairing  to  the  next 
groye  or  coppice ;  and  that,  in  a  like  tract  of  time,  shall  become  as  holy 
as  Solomon's  temple,  or  any  consecrated  place,  whatsoerer  it  be.  i 

Fuller. — Not  the  solemnest  consecration  can  advance  om  ' 
churches  into  the  same  dqgree  of  sacredoess  with  Solomon^s  temple; 
which  was  (yea,  might  be)  but  one  dignified  (when  dedicated) 
with  God^s  glorious  presence,  who  ^^  chose  that  place  to  himself  for 
an  house  of  sacrifice,^  2  Chron.  vii.  12,  It  was  the  type  of  om 
blessed  Saviour,  "perfect  in  all  points,^  as  made  by  inspired  arcbi- 
iects ;  and  the  utensils  in  the  holy  of  holiest,  the  self-same  which 
Moses  made  according  to  the  pattern  in  the  mount. 

But,  I  hold,  English  churches  may  amount  to  the  holiness  of  the 
Jewish  synagogues. 

Dr.  Hkyun. — Churches  may  well  be  spared,  pulled  down,  and 
their  materials  sold  for  the  use  of  the  saints. 

Fuller. — God  forbid !  The  clean  contrary  followeth  fiom  mj 
position ;  wherein  I  do  offer  an  alignment  for  the  sacredness  of 
places,  the  register  of  whose  consecration  is  lost,  as  time  cot  of 
mind ;  so  that  now  they  can  no  otherwise  prove  it,  (no  record  being 
extant  thereof,}  save  by  pious  prescription :  enough,  in  my  judg- 
ment, to  give  sacrilege  a  rap  over  the  fingers,  if  offering  to  lay  hold 
on  such  places  and  buildings,  and  turn  them  to  her  private  profit. 

Were  it  in  my  power,  I  would  have  built  a  church,  where  1  only 
made  my  Church- History.  But  the  worst  is,  the  Animadvertor 
would  then  have  quarrelled  the  contriving  and  adorning  of  my 
church,  as  much  as  now  he  doth  the  matter  and  making  of  my  book; 
and  therefore  I  leave  it  to  others,  of  more  ability,  first  to  do,  and 
then  to  defend,  their  good  actions  from  his  morosity. 

Dr.  Hetlin. — ^A  tub,  by  this  our  author's  logic,  will  be  as  useful  as 
the  pulpit  unto  edification. 

Fuller. — This  is  a  tale  (for  I  am  sure  it  is  no  tnOi)  of  a 
tub  indeed  !  I  ever  beheld  a  pulpit  as  in  some  sort  jure  di^M^ 
ever  since  I  read,  Neh.  viii.  4,  that  "  Ezra  stood  upon  a  pulpit  of 
wood.*"  However,  if  called  thereunto,  I  pray  God  I  may  make 
but  as  good  a  practical  sermon,  as  John  Badby  effectually  preached 
in  a  tub,  of  constancy  and  Christian  patience,  when  put  into  such 
a  vessel,  and  burnt  therein  for  the  testimony  of  the  truth,  in  the 
reign  of  king  Henry  IV.* 

•  Fox's  <*  AcU  and  Monumente." 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


ANSWER  TO  HKTLIN'S  NECESSABY  INTRODUCTION.  345 

Dr.  Hetlin.— -And  that  we  may  pereeiye,  that  nothing  is  more 
precious  with  him  than  an  iiregular,  onconsecrated,  and  unfioumiahed 
chapel,  &C. 

Fuller. — Next  to  an  heart,  such  as  David  had,  made  (the  best 
copy  of  the  best  original)  ^^  after  Ood^s  own  heart,^  I  most  highly 
prize  a  regular  and  consecrated  chapel,  famished  with  matron-like, 
not  meretricious,  ornaments. 

Dr.  Hetlin. — ^Melvin's  in&mous  libel  against  the  furniture  of  the 
altars  in  the  chapels  royal,  (for  which  he  was  censured  in  the  Star- 
Chamber,)  must  be  brought  in  by  head  and  shoulders,  out  of  time 
and  place,  for  fear  lest  such  an  excellent  piece  of  Puritanical  zeal 
should  be  lost  to  posterity.  These  things  I  might  hare  noted  in  their 
proper  places,  but  that  they  were  reserred  for  this  as  a  taste  to  the 
rest 

Fuller. — I  account  not  those  his  verses  worth  the  translat- 
ing, (though  easy,)  and  speak  of  his  censure  as  well  as  of  his 
offence.  I  mistimed  nothing,  having  entered  this  passage  near  the 
year  wherein  he  was  settled  a  Professor  beyond  the  seas. 

12.  Dr.  Heylin. — Et  jam  Jlnt$  erat;  "and  here  I  thought  I 
should  have  ended  "  this  anatomy  of  our  author  s  book,  but  that  there 
is  another  passage  in  the  preface  thereof,  which  requires  a  little  further 
consideration. 

For  in  that  pre&ce  he  informs  us,  by  the  vrdj  of  caution,  that  "  the 
three  first  books  were,  for  the  main,  written  in  the  reign  of  the  late 
king,  as  appeareth  by  the  passages  then  proper  for  the  government. 
The  other  nine  books  were  made  since  Monarchy  was  turned  into  a 
State." 

Fuller. — ^The  Animadvertor  hath  fcirly  and  fully  (no  constant 
practice  !)  cited  my  words ;  I  request  the  reader  to  take  especial 
notice  of  those  three  — "  for  the  main.'*' 

I  presume,  the  reader  conceiveth  such  a  caveat  not  improper  or 
impertinent,  but  safe  and  seasonable,  for  my  defence  and  his  direb- 
iion,  especially  seeing  the  like  happened  not  to  any  English  histo* 
rian  this  thousand  years,  that  his  pen  (during  the  writing  of  his  book) 
should  pass  through  climates  of  different  governments.* 

Dr.  Hetlin. — By  which  it  seems,  that  our  author  never  meant  to 
frame  his  History  by  the  line  of  truth,  but  to  attemper  it  to  the  palate 
of  the  present  government,  whatsoever  it  then  was  or  should  prove  to 
be;  wUch,  I  am  sure,  agrees  not  with  the  laws  of  History. 

And  though  I  can  most  easily  grant,  that  the  fourth  book  and  the 
rest  that  foUow  were  written  afler  the  great  alteration  and  change  of 

*  The  governinent  of  EnglaDil,  tbough  often  tnuulated  from  one  family  (yea,  nation)  ' 
to  another,  yet  hath  so  long  contiuned  monarcbicaL 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


34d  APPEAL  O^  INJtni£0  INNOCBHCS;  PART  t. 

Male,  in  making  a  new  Commonwealth  ont  of  ihe  ruins  of  on  andent 
Monarchy ;  yet  I  concor  not  with  our  author  in  the  time  of  the  former. 
For  it  appears  by  some  passages,  that  the  three  first  books  either  were 
not  all  written  in  the  time  of  the  king,  or  else  he  must  give  himself 
Some  disloyal  hopes,  that  the  king  should  nerer  be  restored  to  his  place 
and  power,  by  whidi  he  might  be  called  to  a  reckoning  for  them. 

Fuller. — ^^  It  seems.^  Mvita  videfUwr  quw  nan  stint.  The 
inference  is  iaise  and  forced.  Titus  Livius  lived  in  imperial^  yet 
iRTTote  of  regain  eonmUxtory^  tribunitial,  [times]  at  Rome, 
without  the  least  imputation  of  falsehood.  I  conceive  monardi^ 
ical,  aristocratical,  and  democratical  truth,  to  be  one  and  the  same* 
It  followeth  not,  that  two-fiwed  Janus  (as  beholding  two  worlds, 
one  be/are  the  other  after  the  flood)  had  also  two  hearts.  I  did 
not  attemper  my  History  to  the  palate  of  the  government;  so 
as  to  sweeten  it  with  any  falsehood ;  but  I  made  it  palatable  thus 
far  forth,  as  not  to  give  a  wilful  disgust  to  those  in  present  power, 
and  procure  danger  to  myself,  by  using  any  over-salt,  tart,  or  bitter 
expression,  better  forborne  than  inserted,  without  any  prejudice  to 
the  truth. 

Dr.  Hetlin. — For  in  the  second  book  he  reckons  the  cross  in  bap- 
tism for  a  popish  trinket;  by  which  it  appears  not,  I  am  sure,  to  hare 
been  written  in  the  time  of  kingly  government,  that  being  no  expres- 
sion suitable  unto  such  a  time. 

Fuller. — Should  I  simply  and  absolutely  call  the  cross  in  bap- 
tism "  a  popish  trinket,'"  my  forehead  (signed  therewith)  would  give 
my  tongue  the  lie,  and  return  the  popery  in  the  teeth  thereof.  I 
behold  it  as  an  ancient  and  significant  ceremony,  but  in  no  degree 
essential  to,  or  completory  of,  the  sacrament ;  witness  the  wisdom 
of  the  church  of  England,  which  in  private  baptism  permitteth  the 
omitting  thereof.  But  when  ceremonies  shall  devour  their  distance, 
and  intrude  themselves  "  necessary  and  essential,"  it  is  high  time  to 
term  them  "  superstitious  trinkets."  The  rest  I  refer  to  what  I  have 
written,  when  this  passage  recurreth  in  the  place  cited  by  the  Ani- 
madvertor. 

Dr.  Heylin. — Secondly.  Speaking  of  the  precedency  which  wa« 
fixed  in  Canterbury,  by  removing  the  archi-episcopal  See  firom  London 
thither,  he  telleth  us  that  "  the  matter  is  not  much  which  See  went 
first  when  living ;  seeing  our  age  hath  laid  them  both  alike  level  in 
their  graves."  (Book  ii.  vol.  1,  p.  98.)  But  certainly  the  government 
was  not  changed  into  a  State  or  Commonwealth  till  the  death  of  the 
king;  and  till  the  death  of  the  king,  neither  of  those  episcopal  Sees, 
nor  any  of  the  rest,  were  laid  so  "  level  in  their  graves  "  but  that 
they  were  in  hope  of  a  resurrection;  the  king  declaring  himself 
very  constantly  in  the  treaty  at  the  Isle  of  Wight,  as  well  against 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


ANSWER  TO  HSTLIK'S  KSCESSABT  INTBODUCTION.  347 

the  alyoBshiiig  of  ihe  episcopal  goTeramenty  at  the  alienation  of  their 
lands. 

Thirdly.  In  the  latter  end  of  the  nme  book,  he  makes  a  great  dis- 
pute against  the  high  and  sacred  priyilege  of  the  kings  of  En^^d,  in 
coring  the  disease  commonly  called  the  ^  king^s  eTil,*  whether  to  be 
imputed  to  magic,  or  imagination,  or  indeed  a  miracle;  next  brings  ns 
in  an  old-wives'  tale  about  queen  Elizabeth,  as  if  she  had  disdaimed 
that  power  which  she  dailj  exercised ;  and,  finallj,  manageth  a  quarrel 
against  the  Form  of  Frajer  used  at  the  curing  of  that  eril,  which  he 
arraigns  for  superstition  and  impertinencies,-— no  inferior  crimes.  Are 
all  these  passages  proper  to  that  goremment  also  ? 

Finally.  In  the  third  book,  he  derogates  from  the  power  of  the 
church  in  making  canons,  giving  the  binding  and  concluding  power  in 
matters  which  concern  the  ciyil  rights  of  the  subjects,  not  to  the  king, 
but  to  the  lay-people  of  the  land  assembled  in  Parliament;  which 
game  he  after  foUoweth  in  the  eighth  and  last.  And  though  it  might 
be  safe  enough  for  him,  in  the  eighth  and  last,  to  derogate  in  this 
manner  from  the  king^s  supremacy  in  ecclesiastical  affurs ;  yet  cer- 
tainly it  was  neither  safe  for  him  so  to  do,  nor  proper  for  him  so  to 
write,  in  the  time  of  the  kingly  goyemment,  unless  he  had  some  such 
wretched  hopes  as  before  we  spake  of. 

Fuller. — I  desire  the  reader  to  remember  my  late  words,  as 
the  Animadvertor  recited  them, — "  for  the  main.'' 

I  confess,  though  these  books  were  written  in  the  reign  of  king 
Charles,  yet,  after  his  death,  I  interpolated  some  lines,  and,  amongst 
others,  that  of  levelling  all  bishoprics. 

I  raised  no  dispute  against  the  king's  curing  the  evil,  it  being 
raised  before  I  was  bom ;  and  which  I  endeavoured  to  allay,  refer- 
ring it  to  miracle,  as  to  the  peruser  of  my  History  in  that  place  will 
appear.  I  tell  no  old-wives'  tale  of  queen  Elizabeth,  it  being  a 
moiculine  truth,  from  most  authentic  authors. 

I  derogate  not,  in  the  least  degree,  from  the  power  of  the  church ; 
but  the  Animadvertor  doth  a/rrogate  unto  it  more  than  is  due  by 
the  laws  of  God  and  man ;  maintaining  that  churchmen  may  go 
beyond  ecclesiastical  censures,  even  to  the  limbs  and  lives  of  such 
as  are  recusants  to  their  constitutions. 

"Wretched"  and,  what  formerly  he  said,  "disloyal  hopes,"  I 
defy,  and  return  them  in  the  teeth  of  him  that  wrote  the  words. 

He  had  "wretched  and  disloyal  hopes"  who  wrote,  that  king 
James  went  to  Newmarket,  as  Tiberius  to  his  Caprese ;  he  waved 
his  loyalty  and  discretion  together,  who  so  saucily  and  un-subject- 
like  counted  how  often  king  Charles  waved  his  crown. 

Here  give  me  leave  to  tell  the  Animadvertor,  that  such  whom  he 
slighteth  for  "low  royalists"  were,  whilst  they  had  a  king  in 
England,  as  high  in  their  loyalty  to  him,  prayers  and  sufferings 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


348  APPEAL  OF  INJCRBD  INNOCENCE.  PART  I. 

for  him,  as  those  high  rojalists  who  maintain  that  all  goods  of  tbe 
subjects  are  at  the  king^s  absolute  dispose ;  and  yet,  since  those  kings 
are  departed  this  life,  can  write  of  them  in  so  base  and  disparaging 
language,  that  any  one  of  the  low  royalists  would  have  his  right 
hand  cut  off,  rather  than  write  the  like.  Reader,  pardon  my  too 
just  passion,  when  disloyalty  is  laid  to  my  charge.  It  is  with  me, 
"  Either  now  speak,  or  else  for  ever  hereafter  hold  your  peace.*" 

13.  Dr.  Hetlin. — I  must  needs  say,  that,  on  the  reading  of  these 
passages,  and  the  rest  that  follow,  I  found  myself  possessed  with  much 
indignation. 

And  I  long  expected  when  some  champion  would  appear  in  the  lists 
against  this  Goliath,  who  so  zeproachfuUy  had  ^^  defied  the  whole 
armies  of  Israel." 

And  I  must  needs  confess  withal,  that  I  did  never  enter  more 
unwillingly  on  any  undertaking  than  I  did  on  this. 

But,  being  solicited  thereunto  by  letters,  messages,  and  seyeral  per- 
sonal addresses,  by  men  of  all  orders  and  dignities  in  the  church,  and 
of  all  degrees  in  the  Uniyersities,  I  was  at  last  overcome  by  that 
importunity  which  I  found  would  not  be  resisted. 

FuLLKB. — ^^  Indignation  ^  is  grief  and  anger  boiled  up  to  the 
height.  What  just  cause  I  have  given  for  so  great  passion,  the 
reader  will  judge.* 

If  I  be  a  Goliath,  in  this  point  may  I  have  his  success — to  be 
conquered,  killed,  and  my  head  cut  off  even  with  my  own  sword ! 
If  I  be  none,  may  the  Animadvertor  be  graciously  pardoned ! 

And  it  may  be,  he  shall  never  come  off  any  undertaking  more 
unhappily. 

I  could  mate  him,  with  telling  him,  that  men  of  all  sorts  and 
«izes,  their  equals  in  number  and  quality,  have  likewise  importuned 
me,  not  tamely  to  sit  down,  but  to  vindicate  my  own  credit  and 
conscience. 

Dr.  Hetltn. — I  know,  that,  as  the  times  now  stand,  I  am  to 
expect  nothing  for  my  pains  and  travail,  but  the  displeasure  of  some, 
and  the  censure  of  others. 

Fuller. — I  will  take  no  advantage  by  the  times ;  and  if,  with- 
out their  help,  I  cannot  buoy  up  my  credit,  let  it  sink  for  ever. 
And  I  humbly  desire  all,  who  have,  or  may  reap,  benefit  by  my 
books,  not  to  be  displeased  with  the  Animadvertor,  in  my  behalf. 
It  is  punishment  enough  that  he  hath  written,  and  too  much  for  his 
stationer  that  he  hath  printed,  so  impertinent  a  book. 

Wlien  Henry  lord  Hunsdon,  on  the  highway,  had,  in  passion, 
given  a  blow  to  sir  Henry  Colt,  the  lord  had  it  returned  him,  the 

•  The  breaks  In  my  answer  relate  reapectively  to  those  in  the  Doctor's  AnimadTcnioDS. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


ANSWER  TO  HEYLIN'S  NECBSSARV  INTRODUCTION.  349 

principal  with  interest ;  and  when  the  lord's  servants  aad  followers 
htgBJi  to  draw  their  swords,  *^  Away,  away  i^  said  he,  ^^  cannot  I 
and  my  neighbour  exchange  a  box  on  the  ear,  but  you  must  interest 
yourselves  in  the  matter  ?'^ 

Let  none  of  my  friends  and  fiiyourers  engage  their  anger  in  this 
(Merence  betwixt  me  and  the  Animadvertor.  Let  us  alone ;  and, 
although  we  enter  adversaries  in  the  beginning,  we  shall,  I  hope,  go 
out  friends  at  the  end,  of  the  contest,  after  there  hath  been  a  pass  or 
two  betwixt  ourselves.  Thus,  heats  betwixt  lawyers,  bom  at  the 
bar  in  Westminster-hall,  are  conunonly  buried  at  the  board  in  the 
Inns  of  Court. 

Dr.  Heylin. — (L)  But,  coming  to  the  work  with  a  single  heart, 
abstracted  from  all  self-ends  and  private  interests,  I  shall  satisfy 
myself  with  having  done  this  poor  service  to  the  church,  my  once- 
blessed  mother,  for  whose  sake  only  I  have  put  myself  upon  this 
adrentore. 

(2.)  The  party  whom  I  am  to  deal  with  is  so  much  a  stranger  to 
me,  that  he  is  neither  ben^ficio  nee  injurid  notus ;  and  therefore  no 
particular  respects  have  moved  me  to  the  mftlring  of  these  ^*  Animad- 
versions :" 

(3.)  Which  I  have  writ,  without  relation  to  his  person,  *^  for  viudi- 
cation  of  the  truth,  the  church,  and  the  injured  dergy,"  as  before  i^ 
said.    So  that  I  may  affirm  with  an  honest  conscience  :-^- 

(4.)  Nan  lecta  est  operij  sed  data,  causa  meOj  ^^  that  this  employ- 
ment was  not  chosen  by  me,  but  imposed  upon  me ;"  the  unresistible 
entreaties  of  so  many  friends  having  something  in  them  of  commands. 

(5.)  But,  howsoever,  Jacia  est  alea^  as  Caesar  once  said  when  he 
passed  over  the  Rubicon :  . 

(6.)  ^  I  must  now  take  my  fortune,  whatsoever  it  proves."  So  Qod 
«P^  me  well ! 

PcLLEE. — CI.)  How  much  of  this  "  self-denying  ordinance  "  is 
performed  by  him,  let  the  reader  judge  in  due  time. 

(2.)  I  am  glad  to  hear  this  passage  from  the  Animadvertor,  that 
/  neter  did  him  any  injury;  the  rather,  because  some  of  my 
friends  have  chaiged  me  for  provoking  his  pen  against  me.  And 
though  I  pleaded,  that  neither  in  thought,  word,  nor  deed,  I  ever 
did  him  any  wrong,  I  hardly  prevailed  with  them  for  belief:  and 
now  the  Animadvertor  hath  cleared  me,  that  I  neeer  did  any  injury 
unto  him.  Would  I  could  say  the  same  of  him,  that  he  never  did 
nie  any  injury  !  However,  as  a  Christian,  I  here  fully  and  freely 
forgive  hin) ;  and  hereafter  will  endeavour,  as  a  scholar,  so  to  defend 
n^yself  against  his  injury,  that  (God  willing)  it  shall  not  shake  my 
contentment. 

(3.)  "  Without  relation  to  my  person,^  let  the  reader  be  judge 
hereof.   Indeed  Thomas  hath  been  well  used  by  him,  but  Fullkb 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


350  APPEAL  OF  INJURSD  iKNOCBNCfi.  PART  I. 

hath  soundly  felt  hiB  displeasure.  However,  if  "  truth,  the  church, 
and  cleigy,^  hare  been  abused  by  me,  he  hath  given  me  too  fair 
quarter,  who  deserved  death  downright  for  so  heinous  an  offence. 

(4.)  Amongst  all  which  persons  inciting  him  to  write  against 

me,  one  letter  sent  to  him  from  regina  peeunia  was  most  prevaleDi 

with  him.     Witness  this  his  book  offered  to,  and  refused  by,  some 

stationers,  because,  on  his  high  terms,  they  could  not  make  a  aaviiig 

'  bargain  to  themselves. 

(5.)  Jaeta  eti  aha.  The  English  is,  *'  You  have  cast  the  dye.^ 
And  seeing  the  Animadvertor  hath  begun  the  metaphor,  1  hope  I 
may  make  it  an  allegory,  without  rendering  either  of  us  scandaloas. 
I  appeal  to  the  reader,  whom  I  make  groom-porter,'  (termed  by  Mr. 
Camden,  aleatorum  arbiter j)  and  let  him  judge  who  plays  with  fidse, 
who  cogs,  who  slurs  a  dye ;  and,  in  a  doubtful  case,  when  we  can- 
not agree  upon  the  cast  betwixt  ourselves,  let  him  decide  it. 

(6.)  By  **  fortune,''  I  presume  the  Animadvertor  intendeth  no- 
thing derogatory  to  Divine  Providence ;  in  which  sense  St.  Augus- 
tine retiacteth  his  former  frequent  using  of  the  word.  Only  he 
meaneth  ^*  uncertainty  of  success,''  in  which  notion  I  say  an  hearty 
Amen  to  his  prayer,  when  I  have  enlarged  his  ^<  Qod  speed  me"" 
into  ^*  Ood  speed  us  well."  May  he  who  manageth  this  contro- 
versy with  most  sincerity,  come  off  with  best  success !    Amen. 

ESRATA    CONFESSED   BY    THE   PRINTKB    OF    DE.   HETLIN's 
"  ANIMADVEBSIONS." 

Page  .10,  line  17,  (10,)  for  Melkinus  ...  read  Telkinus, 

20,  —  21,  (26,)  ...  queen  of,    queen  of  England. 

' 27,  —    6,  (32,)  ...  Wooderpair,  Woodensdike. 

—  42,  —    1,  (42,)  ...  ineandderatenesee  the  inconsideiate- 

nesse  of  children. 

121,  —    2,  (140,)  ...  bet,     better. 

, 145,  —    2,  (161,)  ...  etaituendo    statuendi. 

164,  —  23,  (177,)  ...  Caninar Cantuar. 

158,  —  17,  (182,)  ...  Dr.  Hammond  ...  Dr.  Boke. 

160,  —    1,  (182,)  ...  Aw this. 

163,  —  28,  (187,)  ...  JemiU    Franciscans. 

189,  —  15,  (212,)  ...  eonfewon confession. 

221,iiitiMiii«y.(257$)  ...  whether  with  other. 

228,  —    2,  (268,)  ...  den     dean. 

239,  —  29,  (287,)  ...  commons canons. 

271,  — t*ft.,  (327,)  ...  ctdU   oculis.* 

•  This  Hat  of  HeyUn'i  jj^rroltf,  and  FoOer't  remaiks  upon  them,  an  offoied  totIi« 
reader,  aa  iUnatiattve  of  Fuller's  plea  of  Uie  peccant  qnaUtiM  of  hla  opponent  pro*^- 
ItoM,  and  at  fmning  a  part  of  hie  own  i^logy.    The  refcrenoea  to  Ae  PH^ 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


ANSWSB  TO  HETLIN*8  NECSSSAKT  INTRODUCTION.  351 

Fuller. — This  is  a  catalogue  of  prelal  mistakes,  committed  and 
confessed  in  the  doctor^s  book  of  Animadversions,  and  here  by  me 
inserted,  not  to  disparage  the  pains  or  care  of  the  printer,  but  on 
these  considerations  :— 

First.  To  prevent  all  exceptions,  that  I  have  defectively  pre* 
sented-m  his  book. 

Secondly.  To  show,  that  sometimes  (as  here)  there  may  be  an 
erratum  erratarum^  to  be  re-reformed.  It  thus  beginneth :  **  Page 
10,  line  17,  for  Mdkinus  read  Telkinus.''  That  i&,  read  that 
which  is  wrong,  instead  of  that  which  was  right  before.  For  a 
MdUnus  Avalonius  appeareth  in  Bale,  Pits,  and  others,  but  a 
Telkinus  was  never  in  nature.  But  take  notice  also  of  this  con- 
fessed mistake,  ^*  Page  163,  line  28^  for  Jesuits  read  Franciscans.**^ 
There  is  here  no  temptation  to  the  press  to  err,  there  being,  betwixt 
the  two  words,  no  literal  similitude,  or  orthographical  symbolizing ; 
scarce  a  letter  in  the  one  which  is  in  the  other. 

I  make  no  other  use  hereof,  save  only  to  crave  the  like  favour, 
in  my  own  defence,  when  in  the  earls  of  March,  Roger  is  misprinted 
Edward ;  and  in  the  earls  of  Bath,  Henry  is  misprinted  William,  in 
my  "  Churcb-History.'' 

I  confess  there  be  some  press-&ults  in  this  my  book ;  as  for 
prelial^  (wherever  occurring,)  xesAprdal ;  part  i.  page  50,  line  32, 
(10  for  (mno  Domini  580,  read  560 ;  part  i.  page  52,  line  18,  (1,) 
for  demd^  read  deinol;  and  part  ii.  page  88,  betwixt  lines  33  and 
34,  (173,)  insert,  I  pray,  ^^  Papists,  nonconformists,  and  covetous 
conformists,  the  acts  therein  appearing  like.^ 

For  the  rest,  I  hope  they  are  nothing  so  many  or  great  as  to 
discompose  the  sense,  and  therefore  I  confide  in  the  reader^s  discre- 
tion, as  also  in  the  Animadvertor^s  ingenuity,  expecting  he  will  deal 
as  candidly  with  me  as  I  have  done  with  him,  when  such  (though 
unconfessed)  errata  do  occur. 

And  because  my  hand  is  now  in,  I  request  such  as  have  my 
'*  Church  History  "*  to  delete  these  words,  book  ii.  vol.  1,  p.  197 : 
^^  A  title  till  his  time  unknown  in  England.^  For,  I  profess,  I 
know  not  by  what  casualty  these  words  crept  into  my  book,  contrary 
to  my  intent. 

'«nidn  M  they  ttood  in  the  Jhti  edition  of  the  Ernvmrn  HiHoricwn  ;  but  m  Heylln 
diitxflmted  his  diatribe  into  three  hundred  and  tfaftrty-seven  <<  Animadveniotta,"  which 
he  distinedy  nambered,  generaUy  as  separate  paragraphs,  these  nnmben  are  retained  in 
tUs  reprint  iff  hit  uwrk,  and  are  added  (within  parentheeee)  to  each  nf  these  Errata, 
The  same  care  Ium  been  observed  in  the  flaw  references  here  adduced  by  Fuller,  and  i^. 
other  passages  of  his  <«  Appeal."— £dit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


352  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.        PART  I. 


BOOK  I. 

OF     THE     CONVEESION   OF      THE    BRITONS    TO    THE      FAITH  OF 

CHRIST. 

1 .  Da.  Heylin. — ^In  order  to  the  first  conrersion  of  the  British 
nations,  our  author  takes  beginning  at  ^^  the  sad  condition  thej  were 
in,  before  the  Christian  faith  was  preached  unto  ihem."  And  in  a  ^'  sad 
condition  "  they  were  indeed,  as  being  in  the  state  of  Gentilism,  and, 
consequently,  without  the  true  knowledge  of  the  God  that  made  them. 

Puller. — ^The  **auther  takes  beginning'*  where  Dr.  Heylin 
himself,  had  he  writ  the  "  Church-History  of  Britain,''  I  believe, 
would,  and  I  am  sure  should,  have  begun.  And  seeing  he  concur- 
reth  with  the  author  in  the  same  expression,  that  the  Britons  were 
in  a  sad  condition,  he  might  have  spared  himself  and  his  reader  the 
trouble  of  the  following  impertinency. 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^But  yet  they  were  not  in  a  worse  condition  than  the 
other  Gentiles,  &c. 

Fuller. — Nor  did  I  ever  say  they  were.  Had  I  said  so,  the 
doctor's  carping  had  had  a  handle  to  hold  on,  whereas  now  his  teeth 
and  nails  must  bite  and  scratch  a  fiistening  for  themselves. 

Dr.  Heylin.*— But  yet,  not  in  a  worse  condition  than  the  other 
Gentiles,  who  were  not  only  darkened  in  their  understandings,  but  so 
depraved  also  in  their  affections,  as  to  ^^  work  all  manner  of  unclean- 
ness  even  with  greediness."  Not  so  effeminate  in  their  conversation 
as  the  Asiatics,  nor  so  luxurious  as  the  Greeks,  nor  branded  with  those 
filthy  and  unnatural  lusts  which  St.  Paul  chaigeth  on  the  Romans, 
and  were  in  ordinary  practice  with  most  eastern  nations. 

Puller. — What  of  all  this  ?  It  is  said  of  king  Joram :  "He 
wrought  evil  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord,  but  not  like  his  father  and 
like  his  mother,"  2  Kings  iii.  2.  It  is  said  of  king  Hoshea,  **  He 
did  that  which  was  evil  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord,  but  not  as  the 
kings  of  Israel  that  were  before  him,"  2  Kings  xvii.  2.  It  d^^" 
not  follow,  that  these  kings  were  good,  because  less  bad  than  others. 
So  that  my  words  stand  an  unshaken  truth,  that  the  Britons,  before 
their  conversion,  were  (though  not  so  debauched  as  other  Hea- 
thens) *^  idolaters,  in  a  sad  condition." 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^And  though  they  were  idolaters,  yea,  and  foul  idol- 
aters, as  our  author  hath  it ;  yet,  neither,  &c. — 

Fuller. — If  they  were  idolaters,  they  must  be  foul  ones, 
except  (as  one  hath  fancied  a  tale  of  a/air  Ethiopian)  any  could 
make  a  truth  of  fair  idolaters. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVEBSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH -HISTORY,  BOOK  I.       353 

Db.  HfiYLiN. — ^Yet  neither  were  their  gods  of  bo  brutish  and  impure 
a  nature  as  the  Priapus,  Cloacina,  and  Stercutia,  amongst  the  Romans ; 
or  as  their  Venus,  Flora,  Lupa, — common  harlots  all.  Of  which,  and 
such  like  other  gods,  the  old  Fathers  tell  os,  that  thej  were  not  nomina 
colendorum,  fed  crimina  colentium,^  Nor  were  they  so  immodest  and 
obscene  in  their  rites  and  ceremonies  as  were  the  Greeks  and  Romans, 
in  the  sacrifices  to  their  Cybele  or  Berecynthia,  whom  they  call  '^  the 
mother  of  the  gods ; "  described  by  Amobius,  Lactantius,  and  others 
of  the  ancient  writers,  in  such  lively  colours  as  no  chaste  eye  can 
look  upon  them  without  detestation.  * 

FuLLrEB. — Well  may  the  doctor  run  apace,  drawing  an  empty 
cart  after  him.  What  is  all  Uiis  to  confute  my  position,  that  "  the 
unconverted  Britons,  foul  idolaters,  were  in  a  sad  condition  ?  ^ 
It  seems,  he  had  a  mind  to  tell  the  world  of  the  foulest  idols  amongst 
the  Romans  ;  and  if  so,  let  them  thank  him  for  his  intelligence  who 
knew  it  not  before. 

Dr.  Heylin. — And  for  the  number  of  their  gods,  they  fell  extremely 
short  of  that  infinite  multitude  which  St.  Augustine  finds  amongst  the 
Romans ;  our  author  naming  only  three,  (which  he  calls /^  gods  para- 
moont,")  that  is  to  say,  Belinus,  Andate,  and  Diana. 

FuLi.EE. — If  they  had  only  three  gods,  they  had  two  too  many. 
However,  it  will  appear,  that  these  were  only  (as  the  author  phraseth 
them)  **  paramount.'^ 

That  they  fell  not  (to  use  the  doctor's  words)  "  extremely  short'' 
(a  virtuous  extreme)  of  the  Romans  in  their  idolatryy  may  thus  be 
proved : — 

They  that  had  idols  almost  exceeding  the  Egyptians  in  number, 
fell  not  much  short  of  the  Romans : 

But  the  ancient  Britons  almost  exceeded  the  Egyptians  in  number 
of  idols : 

Therefore  they  fell  not  much  short  of  the  Romans. 

The  major  is  plain  in  Scripture,  often  complaining  of  the  idols 
of  Egypt;  as  also  in  human  writers,  Juvenal  jeering  the  Egyptians 
for  being  over-stocked  with  such  kind  of  cattle,  whose  gods  (leeks 
and  onions)  did  commonly  grow  in  their  gardens. 

The  minor  are  the  very  words  of  grave  Gildas,  the  most  ancient 
British  writer,  flourishing  anno  Domini  560 :  Pof tenia  pcene  riumero 
^gyptiaca  mncentia.  Where,  in  few  words,  we  have  the  nume- 
rosity  and  monstrosity  of  the  British  idols.  Numerosity^  "  almost 
exceeding  the  Eg3rptians  ;"  momtrpsity,  called  portents^  mis-shapen 
antics  of  prodigious  deformity. 

•  "  These  were  not  the  names  of  snch  persons  op  objects  as  vi*ere  \w)rthy  of  adoration, 
but  they  were  rather  the  personifications  of  the  very  crimes  in  which  the  worabippers 
th^maelres  delighted  to  indulge."  This  is  one  of  those  sage  remarks^  the  whole  force 
of  which  is  not  perceived  ftt  the  first  glance. -^£01  t. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


354 


API'gAL  OF  iNJlTRtiD  iHfiOCZVCH. 


fARTf. 


Db.  HKYLiN.-»Wheii  therefore  Gildas  tells  us  of  the  aneient  Bri- 
tonSy  that  in  the  numher  of  their  gods  they  had  almost  exceeded 
E^jpt,  (porlenta  pceni  numero  Mgtfptiaca  vincentia^  in  that  authors 
language,)  he  must  he  understood  with  reference  to  the  times  in 
which  he  lived,  when  all  the  Roman  rahhle  had  heen  thrust  upon  them ; 
and  not  as  speaking  of  the  times  of  their  first  conrersion. 

Fuller. — Satis  pro  imperioy  "Must  is  for  a  king;"  and 
seeing  the  doctor  and  I  are  both  kings  alike,  I  return,  "He  ntd 
not  be  so  understood ; "  as  to  any  judicious  and  indifferent  reader 
will  appear. 

For  the  clearing  hereof,  I  will  present  and  translate  the  vords 
of  Gildas,  with  what  precedeth  and  foUoweth  them,  conducing  eifec- 
tually  to  the  true  understanding  of  this  clause  controyerted.  I  use 
the  first  and  best  printed  edition,  set  forth  by  Polydore  Virgil,  1525, 
and  dedicated  to  Cuthbert  Tunstal,  then  the  learned  bishop  of  Lon- 
don. Only,  because  I  suspect  that  some  readers  will  be  out  of 
breath  in  going  along  with  the  long-winded  style  of  Gildas,  (the 
excusable  fiiult  of  the  age  he  lived  in,)  I  crave  leave  to  divide  his 
long  and  entire  sentence,  for  the  better  understanding  thereof,  into 
several  parcels,  without  the  least  addition  thereto,  or  alteration 
thereof. 


Gildas,  folio  primo. 

Iffitur  omtttens  priaeos  iUoSi 
eommunesque  cum  omnibus  gen- 
tibuSy  errores^  quibus  ante  ad- 
centum  Ghristi  in  came  omne 
humanum  genus  obligcibatur  ad- 
strtctv/m. 

Nee  enumerans  patriot  por- 
tenia  ipsa  diaholicapcmi  numero 
JEgyptiaca  mncentia^  quorum 
nonnulla  lineamentis  adhuc  de- 
formibus  intra  vel  eoctra  deserta 
momia  solito  more  rigentia^  tor- 
vis  tultifms  intttemur. 

Neque  nominatim  inclamitans 
mantes  ipsosy  aut  colles^  vel  flu- 
viosj  (olim  exitiabilesy  nunc 
verd  hvmanis  usibns  utiles^)  qui- 
bus divintis  honor  a  cceco  tunc 
populo  cumulabatur, 

Et  tacens  Tetustos  immanium 


Gildas,  first  leaf. 

Omitting,  therefore,  those  old 
errors,  and  common  (to  the  Bri- 
tons) with  other  nations,  to 
which  all  mankind  was  tied  and 
fettered  before  the  coming  of 
Christ  in  the  flesh. 

Nor  reckoning  up  those  very 
devilish  portents  of  our  own 
country,  dmost  exceeding  those 
of  Egypt  in  number;  some 
whereof  we,  with  fi-owning  eyes, 
do  still  behold,  drawn  with  de- 
formed shapes  within  or  without 
our  desert  walls. 

Nor  calling  upon  by  name  the 
mountains  themselves,  or  hills, 
or  rivers,  (in  times  past  deadly, 
now  profitable  to  man^s  use,)  on 
which  divine  honour  was  then 
heaped  up  by  the  blind  people. 

And  passing  over  in  silence 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH- HISTORY,  BOOK  I.       $55 

tyramujTum  annas^  qui  in  cUiis  the  ancient  ycArs  of  those  vast 
lon^^  positis  regianibua  mtlgati  tyrants,  vhich  are  commonly 
mnt;  ita  ut  Porphyrivs^  rabidua  spoken  of  in  other  &r-distant 
orientalis  adversus  ecdeaiam  countries ;  so  that  PorphyriuSji 
canis^  dementiw  euce  ac  vanitcUt^  (that  raging  dog  of  the  east 
stylo  hoe  etiam  adnecteret^  Bri--  against  the  church,)  in  the 
tannta^  inquiens,  fertilis  pro-  style  of  his  madness  and  vanity, 
tdncia  tyrannorum.  addcth    this    also :    ^^  Britain,*^ 

saith  he,  ^*  a  fruitful  province  of 

tyrants.^ 
Ula  tantiim  proferre  conabor  I  will  only  endeavour  publicly 
in  mediwm,  qum  temporibus  to  proffer  such  evils,  as  she  (Bri- 
Bomemorum  imperatorum  et  tain)  in  the  times  of  the  Ro- 
passa  esty  et  aliis  intulit  citibm  man  emperors  both  suffered  in 
et  lofiffi  poritisy  mcUa.  herself,  and  impressed  on  other 

people  placed  far  off. 

See  here  this  prolix  sentence  of  Oildas,  built  (as  I  may  say)  five 
stories  high  :  the  four  first  are  of  privation  or  preterition,— of  what 
he  will  not  meddle  with  ;  the  fifth  and  last,  of  position, — whereon 
he  would  insist.  He  would  not  reckon  the  British  errors  common 
with  others,  nor  patrice  portenta^  "the  portentive  idols  of  their 
coimtry,"  which  plainly  decideth  the  thing  in  controversy, — that 
those  their  idols  were  indigehoBy  non  advenw^  "natives,  not 
foreigners,^^  of  British  origination,  not  Roman  superinduction. 
His  method  plainly  proveth,  that  these  subjects  which  he  declineth 
to  treat  of,  were  all  of  them  precedaneous  to  the  Romans  coming 
into  Britain,  whence  he  beginneth  his  History.  I  mention  not 
the  marginal  note  of  Polydore  Virgil,  (placed  over  against  the 
words  of  Oildas,)  Veterum  Britannorum  tana  religioy  "  The  vain 
religion  of  the  old  Britons.*"  The  rest  of  his  testimony  we  leave 
lying  in  the  deck,  and  it  will  not  be  long  before  we  shall  make  use 
thereof. 

Dr.  Heylin.— But  whether  their  idols  vrere  more  or  fewer,  our 
author  is  resolved  on  Diana  for  one:  though  whether  this  were  a 
British  deity,  may  he  more  than  questioned,  whose  temple  was  built  in 
or  near  the  place  where  St.  Paul's  now  stands,  as  our  learned  anti- 
qwks  do  acknowledge. 

FuLLEE.—- The  Animadvertor  doth  confess,  that  the  Britons  did 
worship  Diana.  But  whether  she  was  one  of  the  latter  brood  of 
idds,  brought  in  by  the  Romans  at  their  conquest,  or  hatched  long 
before  amongst  the  Britons  as  their  own  country-goddess,  is  the 
question.     I  am  confident  in  the  latter* 

2  A  2 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


356  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PAKTI. 

The  British  stories  tell  us,  that  Brutus,  (some  hundred  of  yean 
before  the  Romans  arrived  here,)  being  upon  his  sea^voyage  to  seek 
his  fortune,  repaired  to  the  temple  of  Diana^  in  an  island  called 
Largeria ;  and,  there  addressing  himself  to  her  temple,  was,  in  a 
dream,  not  only  instructed  in  the  manner  of  her  sacrifices  and 
ritual  services,  but  also  directed  to  an  island  in  the  west,  now  Bri- 
tain, where  his  posterity  should  fix  themselves  in  happiness.  And 
that  this  passeth  for  current  amongst  the  Welsh,  I  report  myself  to 
their  learned  gentry,  the  proper  judges  thereof. 

Let  me  add  this  passage  from  the  pen  of  as  great  an  antiquary, 
as  any  Wales  now  doth  enjoy : — 

"  As  for  the  name  rof  Diana,  I  do  conceive  that  she  was  called 
Dain  in  our  language  ;  and  I  have  many  histories  of  our  nation,  tbt 
seem  to  make  no  question  of  it.  To  this  day  in  Wales,  fat  mar- 
ketable cattle  are  called  guartheg  deinol ;  that  is  to  say,  ^Dianas 
cattle,'  or,  '  cattle  fit  to  be  sacrificed,'  &c.  And  I  am  more  than  con- 
fident, there  is  no  man  living  can  put  any  other  interpretation  upon 
this  word  deinol ;  it  must  be  an  adjective  of  dain^  and  dain  hath 
no  other  signification  in  our  language,  than  the  name  of  Diana." 

2.  Dr.  Heylin.— (This  temple  of  Diana  in  London,)  saith  he, 
"  rendereth  their  conceit  not  altogether  unlikely,  v?ho  will  have  Lon- 
don so  called  from  Llan-Dian^  which  signifieth,  in  British, '  the  tem- 
ple of  Diana.' " — A  conceit,  whosesoever  it  was,  not  altogether  so  likely 
neither  as  the  author  makes  it. 

Fuller. — No  cautiousness  of  proof  against  captiousness.  1 
called  it  but  a  "  conceit ;  "  I  said  not  that  it  was  true  ;  yea,  niy 
words  left  an  insinuation  of  unlikeliness  to  an  indifferent  reader. 
But,  seeing  the  Animadvertor  is  so  hard-hearted  to  an  innocent 
conceit,  I  shall  hereafter  love  it  the  better. 

Db.  Heylin. — ^A  conceit,  (London  from  Llan-DiatiyJ  whosesoever 
it  was,  not  altogether  so  likely  neither  as  the  author  makes  it  For 
though  the  Britons,  being  well  stored  with  woods  and  renison,  possiwf 
might  have  a  hunting  goddess  amongst  the  rest ;  yet,  certainly,  she  was 
not  called  by  the  name  of  Diana,  till  the  Roman  conquest  and  planta- 
tions, before  which  time  this  city  had  the  name  of  London,  (or  Lon- 
dinium,)  as  we  read  in  Tacitus.  The  name  and  sacrifices  of  Diana 
were  not  originally  British,  but  of  Roman  race,  as  the  great  temple  in 
or  near  the  place  where  St.  Paul's  now  stands  was  of  their  foundation. 
The  Britonp,  worshipping  Apollo  by  the  name  of  Belinus,  as  both 
Camden*  and  our  author  say  they  did,  must  be  supposed  to  have 
another  name  for  Diana  also,  and  were  more  likely  to  have  called  her 
by  the  name  of  Artemis,  her  old  Grecian  name,  or  by  some  other 

*  Cabtdbk,  {q  Middlesex. 

•    Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  I.       857 

of  as  near  a  resemblance  to  it,  as  Belinos  was  to  that  of  Bel  in  the 
eastern  countries.  Assuredly,  if  that  great  city  had  receired  its  name 
from  Diana's  temple,  the  Welsh,  being  so  tenaciousof  their  ancient  lan- 
guage, would  hare  had  some  remembrance  of  it ;  who  to  this  day  call 
it  Lundayn,  and  not  Llan-Dian^  according  to  the  new  conceit  which 
our  author  speaks  of.     But  of  this  enough. 

Fuller. — Yea,  indeed,  too  much  !  So  may  you  say,  **  A  sur- 
feit is  enough."*'  "  Whosesoever  this  conceit  was  '^ — I  had  thought 
the  Animadvertor  could  not  have  been  ignorant  thereof,  being 
BO  meaner  a  man  than  Mr.  Selden. 

This  learned  antiquary,  after  he  had  alleged  some  verses  out  of 
Robert  of  Gloucester,  deriving  the  name  of  London,  quasi  Lud^s 
ioum^  from  Lud^  he  proceedeth  as  followeth,  in  his  notes  on  the 
eighth  song  in  Polyolbion,  page  126 : — "  Judicious  reformers  of 
fabulous  report,  I  know,  have  more  serious  derivations  of  the  name ; 
and,  seeing  conjecture  is  free,  I  could  imagine  it  might  be  called  at 
first  Lhan-Dien^  that  is,  '  the  temple  of  Diana,'  as  Lhan^Deiciy 
Lhan-Stephan^  Lhan-Padem  Vaur^  Lkan-  Vair,  that  is,  St.  Dewy's^ 
St.  Stephen's,  St.  Patem  the  great,  St,  Mary's,  (and  Verulam  is,  by 
H.  Lhuid,  derived  from  Ver-Lhauy  that  is,  ^  the  church  upon  the 
river  Ver,')  with  divers  more  such  places  in  Wales :  and  so  after- 
wards by  strangers  turned  into  Landinium^  and  the  like ;  for  that 
Diana  and  her  brother  Apollo  (under  the  name  of  Belin)  were  two 
great  deities  amongst  the  Britons.'" 

If  the  Animadvertor  hath  a  mind  to  enter  the  list  with  Mr. 
Selden,  and  have  a  venue  with  him  to  try  whose  skill  i9  most  and 
weapon  best,  he  may,  if  he  pleaseth, 

3.  Dr.  Heylin. — Now  to  facilitate  this  great  work  of  their  conver- 
sion, Camden  and  Godwin,  two  great  antiquaries,  have  alleged  one 
reason,  whi^h  is  not  allowed  of  by  our  author ;  and  our  author  hath 
alleged  another  reason,  which  none  can  allow  of  but  himself.  The 
reason  alleged  by  the  two  great  antiquaries,  is,  that  '^  the  Druids  did 
instmct  the  Britons  in  the  knowledge  of  one  only  God,"  which,  ques- 
tionless, was  a  great  step  toward  their  conversion.  Druides  unum  esse 
I^eum  semper  inculcdrunt^  saith  our  author's  margin.  But  this  he 
reckoneth  a  mistake,  and  thus  charitably  wisheth  thereupon ;  namely, 
^  May  their  mistake  herein  be  as  freely  forgiven  them,  as  I  hope  and 
desire  that  the  charitable  reader  will,  with  his  pardon,  meet  those 
nnvoluntary  errors  which  in  this  work  by  me  shall  be  committed." 
("  Church-History,"  vol.  i.  p.  6.)  Whether  all  the  errors  of  our 
author  be  involuntary,  or  not,  (for  I  grant  that  some  of  them  may  be 
such,)  will  be  seen  hereafter. 

Fuller. — In  good  time.  Sir.  But  till  this  "  hereafter''  cometh, 
"judge  not,  lest  you  be  judged;"  and  think  charitably,  that  a 
Christian  will  not  willingly,  wittingly,  and  wilfully  run  into  errors. 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ IC 


368  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PABT  I. 

Dr.  Heylin. — Bat  whether  those  two  learned  pens  were  mistaken 
or  not,  shall  be  now  examined.  I  conceire  clearlj,  that  they  were  not 
mistaken  in  it,  it  being,  First,  improbable,  if  not  impossible,  that  two 
men  of  such  parts  and  learning,  and  of  such  eminent  integrity  in  all 
their  writings,  should  rent  a  proposition,  or  position  rather,  whidi  they 
have  no  ground  for. 

FoLLER."— They  were  learned  pens  indeed,  as  ever  our  nation 
bred,  in  their  kind  of  studies;  and  great  antiquaries.  But  only 
^^  the  Ancient  of  Days ""  is  omniscient  and  infallible.  (Dan.  vii.  9.) 
And  I  am  confident,  such  was  their  ingenuity,  that  they  would 
rather  be  tliankful  to,  than  angry,  with  any  who,  with  due  respect 
to  their  persons,  should  discover  their  mistakes;  amongst  which, 
this  was  one,— •^Hhat  the  Druids  instructed  the  Britons  in  the 
knowledge  of  one  God." 

The  contrary  doth  plainly  appear  by  the  testimony  of  Gildas, 
lately  alleged ;  whose  words  are  so  walled  about  (as  I  may  say)  on 
both  sides,  by  what  went  before  and  after  that,  as  they  cannot  be 
evaded,  they  cannot  be  perverted  to  other  reference,  than  relating 
unto  the  religion  of  the  ancient  Britons,  long  before  the  entrance  of 
the  Romans  into  this  island ;  who,  besides  a  numerous  rabblemeot 
of  portentous  idols,  gave  divine  honour  to  mountains,  hills,  and 
rivers.  Nothing  can  be  more  diametrically  opposite  to  the  worship 
of  one  God,  than  such  gross  and  generally-difftased  polytheism. 

Add  to  the  authority  of  Gildas  that  of  Origen,  thus  writing  in  his 
fourth  homily  on  Ezekiel  i^^Oan/Ueniur  et  muerabiles  Judcn  htee 
de  Christi  prcesentid  prwdiocuri ;  80d  iiulti  ignorant  pers(manij  cum 
Tideant  impleta  quw  dicta  sunt.  Quando  enim  terra  BHtannim 
ante  adventtmi  Christi  in  tmius  Dei  consensit  rdi^ianem  f  Quando 
terra  Mav/rorum^  ^c. 

All  judicious  readers  easily  understand  this  interrogation,  **  When 
did  the  land  of  Britain,  before  the  coming  of  Christ,  cotfsent  in  the 
religion  of  one  God?"  I  say,  all  do  understand,  that  this  his 
question,  asked  and  left  unanswered,  amounteth  unto  a  very  strong 
negation ;  and  that,  before  the  coming  of  Christ,  Britain  was  divided 
into  the  worshipping  of  many  gods. 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^And,  Secondly,  our  author  tells  of  the  Druids,  that 
they  were  philosophers,  divines,  and  lawyers,  to  the  rest  of  the 
Britons;  and  if  philosophers,  they  might,  by  their  long  study  in  the 
book  of  nature,  and  their  industrious  inquiiy  into  natural  causes,  attain 
unto  the  knowledge  of  that  One  and  only  Supernatural  C^ose,  (as 
others  of  the  heathen  philosophers  in  their  several  countries,)  from 
which  the  works  of  nature  had  their  first  original.  And  of  some  other 
th^  old  philosophers  it  is  said  expressly  by  Minutius,*  that  they  hacl 

*  In  Octano. 

Digfced  by  VjOOQ IC 


ANIMAOVEB8IONS  ON  THE  CHUBCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  I.       359 

spoken  so  divindj  of  the  things  of  Qod  ui  quivU  arbUreinr  ami  nunc 
ChrUtianos  phUowphos  esse,  aut  pkUoiopkai  Juisse  Jam  tunc  Ckru- 
tianot.  So  little  was  the  diflerenoe  in  that  particular,  between  those 
old  philosophers  and  the  primitire  Christians !  For  though  they  did 
admit  a  multitude  of  inferior  gods,  topical  in  respect  of  countries,  and 
tutelar  in  respect  of  particular  persons;  yet,  in  the  middle  of  that 
darkness,  they  discerned  one  supreme  God  orer  all  the  rest ;  ITar^p 
avdpoorre  dfwyrf,  as  the  Qredan^^-^HominMrn  salar  atque  Deorumj  as 
the  Latins — call  hint.*  And  though  they  were  mistaken  in  the  name 
of  that  Supreme  Power,  whom  generally  they  entituled  by  the  name  of 
Jupiter,  yet  they  did  well  enough  agree  in  giving  him  the  supreme 
power  OYor  all  the  world.  Et  qui  Javem  principem  ooluni  faUuntur 
in  nomine^  sed  de  ed  patettaie  cansentiunt^  as  my  author  hath  itt 
Nor  did  those  old  philosophers  keep  the  great  truth  unto  themselres^ 
Jike  a  candle  in  a  dark  lanthom,  or  ^  hid  under  a  bushel ;"  but  placed 
it  like  a  great  light  on  the  top  of  a  mountain,  that  all  the  people  might 
discern  it ;  who  thereupon,  lifting  their  hands  unto  the  hearens,  did 
irequently  make  their  addresses  but  to  one  Ood  only,  saying  in  com* 
mon  speech  unto  one  another,  that  God  was  great,  and  God  was  tnie^ 
and,  "  If  God  permit."  Of  which,  my  author  (the  same  Christian 
adyocate)  seems  to  make  a  question :  Vulgi  iste  naturali*  sermo  ett^ 
an  Chrittidni  confiteniit  orotic  ?%  ^^^  ^  to  say,  **  Whether  those 
expressions  saTOured  not  rather  of  the  Christian,  than  the  vulgar 
heathen  ?"  And  hereupon  I  may  conclude  in  the  behalf  of  the  Druids, 
(or  rather  of  those  learned  pens  who  affirm  it  of  them,)  that,  being 
philosophers  in  study,  and  divines  by  office,  and  veiy  eminent  in  their 
times  in  both  capacities,  they  might  as  well  instruct  the  people  in  the 
knowledge  of  one  only  €h>d,  as  any  other  of  the  heathen  sages,  either 
Greeks  or  Romans,  The  reason  alleged  by  these  great  antiquaries 
being  thus  made  good,  we  next  proceed  to  the  examination  of  that 
whidi  is  produced  by  our  author. 

FuLLEU.— -In  this  long  harangue,  I  know  not  what  the  Animad- 
vertor  aims  at :  this  I  know,  he  hits  not  me,  nor  allegeth  any  thing 
in  opposition  to  what  I  have  written.  If  he  desireth  only  to  prove, 
that  the  refined  heathens  worshipped  one  god  above  all  the  rest, 
he  shall  not  only  have  my  free  consent,  but  the  adj^ction  of  this 
my  symbol  thereunto. 

I  conceive,  that  the  Pagans  adored  the  essence  of  God  under  the 
name  of  Jupiter;  and  his  attributes  under  other  titles,— -wisdom,  of 
Apollo;  omnipresence,  swiftness,  of  JVfercury;  power,  of  Mars; 
beauty,  of  Venus;  providence  over  the  sea,  Neptune;  winds, 
^olus;  cattle,  Pan,  &c«  Yet  can  I  not  see,  how  this  can  excuse 
them  from  being  foul  idolaters,  seeing  the  moral  commandment 
doth  not  say,  */  Thou  shalt  not  have  other  gods  in  equal  degree  of 
worship  with  me  ;^*'  but,  "  Thou  shalt  not  have  other  gods  before 

*  ViBQiLii  ^ndd,  lib.  i.  t  -Minutius  Felix  in  Octavh.  X  Idem,  ibid. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


aOO  ASTSAL  OF  DUCKED  CfXOCBXCBL  PAKT  I. 

aie,*  Exod.  zx.  3 ;  and  die  AnbnalvcfiOT  koowetk  weU,  tlni  the 
original  importctb,  coram  n^,  dm  is,  *^  llioa  shall  baTe  none  oUiet 
in  niT  ^gnt  cyr  presence 

Now,  for  quietncsB^  sake,  lei  die  result  of  diis  long  ^scomse  (so 
£ir  as  I  can  nndecstand)  be  gianted  liim,  and  it  amounts  to  no  more 
tlian  to  pot  the  Kitons  in  the  same  foim  widi  the  Grecians; 
instrncted  by  dieir  Draids  in  the  wOTship  of  one  God,  as  well  and  as 
iar  as  the  Grecians  were  in  the  same  lesson  by  their  philosopheis. 
Now,  what  the  Grecians  held  and  did  in  this  point  will  appear  by 
the  practice  of  die  Adienians,  whose  city  was  die  mistress  of  Greece, 
staple  of  learning,  and  palace  of  philosophers ;  and  how  weU  the 
Athenians  wmdiipped  one  Ood,  we  have  fmm  the  in&Uible  witness 
of  SL  Paol,  ^  whose  spirit  was  stirred  Within  him,  whilst  he  saw  tke 
eity  wholly  giren  to  idoktry,""  Acte  xwi.  16.  Whence  it  will  follow, 
that  the  Britons,  form-fellows  with  the  Gredans,  were  whoDy  gi^en 
to  idolatry :  which  is  as  mnch  as,  and  more  than,  I  said  before. 

And  now  the  reader  may  jadge  what  progress  the  Animadrertor 
hath  made  in  confuting  what  I  have  written ;  yea,  less  than  Ine 
beast  Pigritia  in  Brazil,  which,  as  he  telleth  us  elsewhere,  *  goetn 
not  so  &r  in  fourteen  days  as  one  may  throw  a  stone.  Yea,  our 
adversary  hath  not  gone  at  all,  (save  backward,)  and  if  he  doth 
not  mend  his  pace,  it  will  be  late  before  he  cometh  to  his  lodging. 

Here  let  me  mind  the  Animadvertor,  that  my  Church-History 
thus  beginneth :  "  That  we  may  the  more  freely  and  fully  pay  the 
tribute  of  our  thanks  to  God's  goodness  for  the  gospel  which  we 
now  enjoy,  let  us  recount  the  sad  condition  of  the  Britwis»  our  pre- 
decessors, before  the  Christian  faith  was  preached  unto  them."  1^ 
therefore  the  Animadvertor  by  his  tedious  discourse,  endeavounng 
to  un-idolatrize  the  Britons  as  much  as  he  could ;  I  say,  if  hereby 
he  hath  hindered  or  lessened  any  mane's  paying  of  his  thanks  to 
God,  he  hath  done  a  thankless  office  both  to  God  and  man  therein. 
Our  author  proceedeth,— 

4.  Dr.  Hbylin.— Our  author,  who  telleth  us,  that  "it  ^^'^'' 
tated  the  entrance  of  the  gospel  hither,  that  lately  the  Roman  con- 
quest had  in  part  civilized  the  south  of  this  island,  by  transporfciflg 
colonies,  and  erecting  of  cities  there/*  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  7-)  ^^^ 
which,  there  could  not  any  thing  be  said  more  different  from  the  truth 
of  story,  or  from  the  time  of  that  conversion  which. we  have  in  hand; 
performed  (as  all  our  later  writers — and  amongst  them  our  author 
himself— have  affirmed  from  Gil&s,  who  lived  in  the  fourth  century 
of  the  Christian  church)  tempore  summo  Tiberii  Ccesaris,  "  toward 
the  latter  end  of  the  reign  of  Tiberius  Ciesar;"  th^t  is  to  say^^  a^^^^ 

•  InhisMMicrocosm/Vp,  800. 

Digitized  by  CjOOQ IC 

^^ 


ANIMADVERSIONS  OK  THE  CHURCH-HI STORY,  BOOK  I.       361 

tliirfy-BeTen  jears  after  Christ's  iiatiTitj;.at  what  time  the  Bomans 
had  neither  erected  any  one  citj,  nor  planted  any  one  colony,  in  the 
south  parts  of  the  island.  For  though  Julius  Csssar,  in  pursuance 
of  his  Gallic  conquest,  had  attempted  this  island,  crossed  the  Thames, 
and  pierced  as  far  as  Yerulamium,  in  the  country  of  the  Cattieuchlani ; 
(now  Hertfordshire ;)  yet,  either  finding  how  difficult  a  work  it  was 
like  to  prove,  or  having  business  of  more  moment,  he  gave  over  the 
enterprise,  resting  contented  with  the  honour  of  the  first  discoTery ; 
et  ostendUse  poiius  qudm  tradidisse^  as  we  read  in  Tacitus.  Nothing 
done  after  this  in  order  to  the  conquest  of  Britain,  until  the  time  of 
Claudius.  Augustus  would  by  no  means  be  persuaded  to  the  under- 
taking; and  much  less  Tiberius,  in  whose  last  years  the  gospel  was  first 
preached  in  Britain,  as  before  was  said,  Consilium  id  divus  Augustus 
vocahaty  Tiberius  prcecipui.f  And  though  Caligula  was  once  resolved 
on  the  expedition,  yet,  being  never  constant  to  his  resolutions,  he  soon 
gave  it  over;  leaving  the  honour  of  this  conquest  to  his  uncle 
Claudius,  who  next  succeeded  in  the  empire ;  and  being  invited  into 
Britain  by  a  discontented  party  amongst  the  natives,  reduced  some 
part  thereof  into  the  form  of  a  Roman  province.  Of  this,  see  Tacitus 
at  large,  in  "the  Life  of  Agricola/*  By  which  it  will  appear  most 
clearly,  that  there  was  neither  city  of  the  Roman  erection,  nor  colony 
of  their  plantation,  till  the  time  of  Claudius ;  and  consequently  no  such 
facilitating  of  the  work,  by  either  of  those  means  which  our  author 
dreams  of.  But,  firom  the  time^  proceed  we  to  the  authors^  of  this  first 
conversion ;  of  which  thus  our  author— 

FuLiEB. — In  the  First  place,  know,  reader,  that  Mr.  Burton,  in 
his  late  learned  notes  on  Antoninus,  justifieth,  that  Julius  Caesar 
did  colonize  (whatever  the  Animadvertor  saith  to  the  contrary) 
some  part  of  this  land ;  otherwise,  his  whole  conquest  would  have 
unravelled  after  his  departure,  and  his  successors  had  had  their 
work  to  begin  afresh. 

Secondly.  I  say  not,  "  the  first  entrance,"  but,  **  the  entrance 
of  the  Gospel"  was  facilitated  by  the  Roman  conquest.  The 
entrance  of  the  Gospel  into  this  island  was  so  far  from  being  done 
in  an  instan*  or,  simul  et  semely  that  it  was  not,  res  unius  seeuli^ 
**  the  product  of  one  age ;"  but  was  successively  done,  vo\viMpws 
XM  zroXvrpiiroos,  "  at  sundry  times,  and  in  divers  manners."  So 
that  this  extensive  entrance  of  the  Christian  religion,  gradually 
insinuating  itself,  took  up  a  century  of  years,  from  the  latter  end  of 
Tiberius,  and  so  forwards. 

Christianity  entered  not  into  this  island  like  lightning,  but  like 
light.  None  can  behold  this  essay  thereof  in  the  time  of  Tiberius, 
otherwise  than  a  morning-star;  some  forty  years  after,  the  day 
dawned ;  and  lastly,  under  king  Lucius,  (that  leuer-maure^  or  "  the 
great  light,")  the  sun  of  religion  may  be  said  to  arise ;  before  which 
•  •  Tacitus  m  VUd  yfffricoLc* 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ  l€ 


362  APPEAL  OF  INJURE  {pfOCRNCB.  PART  I. 

time,  the  south  of  this  island  was  sufficiently  colonized  by  the 
Romans,  whereby  commerce  .and  civility  ushered  Christianity  into 
Britain.  Yet,  to  clear  my  words,  not  from  untruth  in  themselres, 
but  mistakes  in  others,  and  to  avoid  all  appearance  of  fidsehood,  it 
shall  be  altered  (God  willing)  in  the  next  edition :  *^  It  fiaicilitated 
the  entrance  and  propagation  of  the  gospel  here,^  &c, 

5.  Dr.  Hetlin. — ^'Parsons  the  Jesuit  mainly  sticldeth  for  the 
apostle  Peter  to  have  first  preached  the  gospel  here."  (Ch.  Hist 
vol.  i.  p.  8.)  And  our  author  doth  as  mainly  stickle  against  it.  The 
reason  which  induced  Parsons  so  to  stickle  in  it,  was,  as  our  author 
thinks  and  telleth  us,  page  9,  ^  to  infer  an  obligation  of  this  island  to 
the  See  of  Rome."  And  to  exempt  thb  island  from  the  obligatioii, 
our  author  hath  endeavoured  to  disprove  the  tradition. 

Fuller, — ^That  the  Jesuit  furiously  driveth  on  that  design, 
appearcth  to  any  that  peruse  his  works ;  and  your  author  conceiveth 
bis  own  endeavours  lawM  and  useful  in  stopping  his  full  career,  and 
disobliging  the  Church  of  England  from  a  debt  as  unjustly  pre^ 
tended,  as  vehemently  prosecuted. 

Ei  veniam  pro  iaudep^;  laudahu  abtmdi, 
NonftuUdihu,  H  tmu  mUhor  erii. 

**  Your  author  ibr  Us  pniae  doth  pai^don  tfnm ; 
If  not  despUed,  Us  praise  enough  sliaU  htkre," 

It  is  therefore  but  hard  measure,  for  you  to  requite  his  'goo4 
intentions  (if  failing  in  success)  with  contempt  and  reproach, 

Db.  Hetlin.—- Whereas,  indeed,  St  Peter's  preaching  in  this  island, 
(if  he  were  the  first  that  preached  here,)  in  the  time  of  llberius,  must 
be  befi)re  his  preaching  in  the  city  of  Rome,  to  which  he  came  not  till 
the  reign  of  the  emperor  Claudius.  And  thereupon  it  foUoweth,  bj 
the  Jesuit's  logic,  that  the  Britons,  by  sparing  their  apostle  to  preach  at 
Rome,  did  lay  an  obligation  upon  that  city,  but  received  none  firom  it. 

Fuller. — Yea,  but  if  Simeon  Metaphrastes  *  be  to  be  believed, 
(on  whose  testimony  Parsons  principally  relieth,)  being  the  self-same 
author  whom  the  Animadvertor  within  few  lines  hereafter  doth  so 
highly  commend  and  extol,  St.  Peter  preached  here,  not  before, 
but  long  after,  his  being  at  Rome ;  and  but  a  little  before  his 
death ;  namely,  in  the  twelfth  year  of  Nero  Csesar. 

Dr.  Hetlin. — ^Or,  granting  that  St.  Peter  had  first  preached  at 
Rome,  yet  would  this  draw  upon  us  no  such  engagement  to  the  pope 
and  the  church  of  Rome,  as  our  author  fears ;  and  other  Gennan 
nations,  by  Boni&ce,  WiUibald,  Willibad,  WilUbrod,  and  Svribeii, 
(English  Saxons  all,)  might  or  diid  draw  the  like  dependence  of  those 
churches  upon  this  of  England. 

•  8.  Mbtaphba»tb»,  Comment,  tb  Petro  ei  Paulo  ad  diem  29  Juttii. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH*HI6T0RY,  BOOR  I.       303 

FuLLEft.«— The  pioporiion,  I  confess,  is  good  and  well-grounded: 
but  I  answer,  Great  the  difference  betwixt  the  natures  of  England 
and  Rome.  England  ne?er  pretended  superiority  oyer  other 
churches ;  which  Rome  doth,  prosecuting  eyen  shadowy  pretences 
with  all  yiolence*  .  What  the  talent-hiding  servant  said  of  his  mas* 
ter,  may  be  justly  said  of  modern  Rome :  "  She  reapeth  where  she 
hath  not  strawed  ;  **  demanding  offi4num^  where  she  neyer  bestowed 
benefietum^  and  requiring  duty  where  she  never  conferred  cour- 
tesy. Rome,  therefore,  being  no  fair  creditor,  but  so  cruel  an 
extortioner,  I  conceive  my  pains  well  employed  to  quit  England 
from  a  debt  of  obligation,  unjustly  exacted  of  her  by  Parsons  the 
Jesuit,  on  the  pretence  of  St.  Peter^s  preaching  here. 

Dr.  Hetlin. — So  that,  this  fear  being  oyerblown,  we  will  consider 
somewhat  further  of  St.  Petei^s  first  preaching  in  this  island,  not  as 
delivered  by  tradition  from  the  church  of  Rome,  which  is  suspected 
to  have  pleaded  their  own  interests  in  it ;  but  as  affirmed  positively 
by  the  Greek  Menologies,  and  in  the  works  of  Simeon  Metaphrastes, 
an  approved  Greek  author.  Of  the  Menologies  (though  vouched  by 
Camden  to  this  purpose)  our  author  takes  no  notice  at  all,  but  lets 
the  weight  of  his  displeasure  fSiU  on  Metaphrastes. 

FuLLEB.-^The  best  way  to  over-blow  this  fear  is,  to  confute 
the  five  arguments,  alleged  by  Parsons,  for  St.  Peter^s  preaching 
here ;  which,  I  hope,  is  done  effectually  by  me  in  my  '^  Church- 
History,^  where  I  follow  the  Jesuit  verbatim,  in  answering  to  his 
reasons.  And  this  is  the  reason  that  I  took  no  notice  of  the  Greek 
Menologies,  because  not  mentioned  by  Parsons :  whence  I  collect 
that  either  he  had  never  seen  them,  (which  is  very  improbable,)  or 
else  he  conceived  that  no  great  belief  was  to  be  given  unto  them, 
or  advantage  thereby  to  be  gotten  for  his  cause. 

6.  Dr.  Hbylin.— Of  whom  he  telleth  us,  «  Metaphrastes  is  an 
author  of  no  credit,  as  Baronius  himself  doth  confess."  (Ch.  Hist, 
vol.  i.  p.  9.)  But,  First,  Baronius  himself  makes  no  such  confession  ; 
that  which  our  author  tells  us  from  him  being  only  this,  tit  aliis  muliU 
ibi  ab  ipso  pontUy  errare  eum  cerium  est ;  that  is  to  say,  "  that  he 
hath  erred  in  many  things  by  him  delivered."  Assuredly  if  to  "err 
in  many  things"  delivered  in  so  great  a  work  as  that  of  Simeon  Me- 
taphrastes, may  forthwith  be  conceived  sufficient  to  make  an  author 
of  no  credit,  God  bless  not  only  our  Historian,  but  Baronius  himself, 
from  being  held  authors  of  no  credit ;  in  both  whom  there  are  many 
errors  not  possible  to  be  reconciled  to  the  truth  of  story. 

Fuller. — Three  is  a  perfect  number,  let  therefore  the  Aniroad- 
vertor  be  put  in  also ;  partly,  to  make  up  a  complete  company ; 
partly,  that  he  may  have  the  benefit  of  his  own  jeer-prayers  to 
himself. 

Digitized  by  CjOOQ IC 


304  APPKAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  I 

Baronius  being  dead,  to  pray  for  him,  is  popery ;  and  to  "  take 
God^^s  name  in  vain,"  (to  jeer  us  both,)  is  pro&neness.  The  Ani- 
madvertor  who  now  inserts,  "God  bless,"  when  it  might  have  been 
omitted,  will  omit  it  when  it  should  be  inserted  ;  as,  God  willingt 
I  shall  take  notice  of  in  due  time  and  place  heieafber. 

Dr.  Hetlin. — ^But,  Secondly,  as  Baronius  did  not,  so  he  could  not, 
say,  that  Metaphrastes  was  an  author  of  no  credit :  the  man  being  not 
only  pious,  but  learned  also,  for  the  times  wherein  he  lived  ;  hononied 
as  a  saint  in  the  Greek  Menologies,  on  the  27th  of  November;  and 
graced  with  a  Funeral  Oration  by  Michael  Psellus,  a  renowned  scholar ; 
highly  extolled  by  Balsamon  for  his  pains  and  industry  in  this  present 
work,  and  no  less  magnified  by  the  Fathers  in  the  Council  of  Florence, 
anno  1436.  All  which  had  never  set  such  an  estimate  upon  him  in 
their  several  times,  had  he  been  ^  an  author  of  no  credit,"  as  our 
author  makes  him. 

Fuller. — I  shall  hereader  have  an  higher  esteem  for  Meta- 
phrastes. However,  to  return  to  the  words  of  Baronius,  which  (in 
the  last  note)  gave  the  occasion  of  this  contest : — In  cUm  muUis 
iBi  ab  ipso  positisy  errare  eum  certum  est :  ^^  It  is  certain  that  he 
hath  erred  in  many  things  there  delivered  by  him :  "  the  Ani- 
madvertor  in  his  translation  omitteth  ^^  there,'^  the  most  emphatical 
word  in  the  whole  sentence ;  seeing,  granting  Metaphrastes  a  good 
author  in  other  things,  he  is  erroneous  in  this  particular. 

7.  Br.  Hetlin.— -I  had  nowr  ended  with  St.  Peter,  but  that  I  find 
him  appear  in  a  vision  to  king  Edward  the  Confessor,  and  telling  him, 
that  he  had  preached  the  gospel  in  Britain,  occasioning  thereby  the 
foundation  of  the  abbey  of  St.  Peter  in  Westminster.  To  which 
our  author  makes  this  answer :  "  To  this  vision  pretended  of  Peter, 
we  oppose  the  certain  words  of  St.  Paul:  'Neither give  heed  to  &bles,' 
1  Tim.  iv.  1." 

What  a  pity  is  it  that  this  apparition  was  not  made,  and  the  same 
tale  told  over  again,  to  Thomas  Fuller  of  Hammersmith,  that  so  it 
might  have  found  some  credit  with  our  author,  though  with  nobody 
else. 

FoLLER. — Nay,  rather,  what  a  pity  was  it  that  this  apparition 
of  St.  Peter  was  not  made  unto  his  name-sake  Peter,  (here  the 
Animadvertor,)  and  then  all  had  been  authentic  indeed. 

Dr,,Heylin. — For  of  this  Thomas  Fuller  our  author  telleth  us, 
(and  telleth  it  in  confirmation  of  some  miracles  done  by  king  Henxy 
YI.  after  his  decease,)  that,  being  a  very  honest  man,  he  had  happened 
into  the  company  of  some  who  had  stolen  some  cattle,  for  which  he 
was  condemned  and  executed ;  and,  being  on  the  top  of  the  ladder, 
king  Harry  VI.  appeared  unto  him,  and  so  ordered  the  matter  that 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  I.       355 

be  was  not  Btrangled  with  the  rope,  bat  presenred  alive ;  and,  finally, 
that,  in  gratitude  of  so  great  a  benefit,  he  repaired  to  that  king's  tomb 
in  Chertsej-abbej,  and  there  presented  his  humble  thanks  unto  him 
for  that  great  deliverance.  There  being  as  good  authors  for  that  appa- 
rition of  St.  Peter,  as  for  this  of  St.  Henry,  vel  neulrum  Jlamtnis  ure, 
vel  ure  duos ;  ^'  ^ther  let  both  be  burned  for  false,  or  believed  for 
truths." 

Fuller.— Let  the  echo  both  in  Latin  and  English  answer  for 
toe,  iTre  dtsos,  "  Bum  both,''  for  a  brace  of  notorious  falsehoods ; 
and  see  who  will  shed  a  tear  to  quench  the  fire.  As  for  the  appa*- 
rition  to  Thomas.  Fuller  of  Hammersmith,  seeing  afterwards  the 
Animadvertor  twitteth  me  therewith,  we  will,  till  then,  defer  our 
answer  thereunto. 

8.  Dr.  Hetlin. — ^Less  opposition  meets  the  preaching  of  St.  Joseph 
of  Arimathea,  though  it  meeteth  some.  For,  notwithstanding  that 
this  tradition  be  as  general,  as  universally  received,  as  almost  any 
other  in  the  Christian  church;  yet  our  author,  being  resolved  to 
let  fly  at  all,  declares  it  for  a  piece  of  '^  novel  superstition,  disguised 
with  pretended  antiquity : "  better  provided,  as  it  seems,  to  dispute  this 
point  than  the  ambassadors  of  Castile,  when  they  contended  for  prece- 
dency with  those  of  England  in  the  Council  of  Basil ;  who  had  not 
any  thing  to  object  against  this  tradition  of  Joseph's  preaching  to  the 
Britons,  although  the  English,  had  provoked  them,  by  confuting  their 
absurd  pretences  for  St.  James's  preaching  to  the  Spaniards. 

FuLLEE. — I  never  denied  the  historical  ground-work,  but  the 
fabulous  varnish,  of  Arimathean  Joseph  here  preaching.  My  words 
run  thus  : — "  Yet  because  the  Noiinan  charters  of  Glastonbury 
refer  to  a  succession  of  many  ancient  charters,  bestowed  on  that 
church  by  several  Saxon  kings,  as  the  Saxon  charters  relate  to  Bri- 
tish grants  in  intuition  to  Joseph^s  being  there ;  we  dare  not  wholly 
deny  the  substance  of  the  story,  though  the  leaven  of  Monkery 
hath  much  swollen  and  puffed  up  the  circumstance  thereof.'^  (Ch. 
Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  14.) 

And  to  the  impartial  peruser  of  the  connexion  of  my  words, 
"  novel  superstition,  disguised  with  pretended  antiquity,'''  relate  not 
to  the  substance  of  the  story,  but  as  it  is  presented  unto  us  with 
fictitious  embellishments. 

And  here  I  foretell  the  reader,  what  he  shall  see  within  few  pages 
performed :  namely,  that  after  the  Animadvertor  hath  flung,  and 
flounced,  and  fluttered  about,  to  show  his  own  activity  and  opposi- 
tion against  what  I  (though  never  so  well  and  warily)  have  written, 
at  last  he  will  calmly  come  up,  and  in  this  controversy  close  with 
my  sense,  though  not  tcordsj  using  (for  the  more  credit)  his  own 
expressions. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  I. 

9.  Db.  HETijN.-^Fory  Finsi,  our  author  does  object,  in  the  way  of 
Bcom,  that  the  '^  relation  is  as  ill  accoutred  with  tacklings,  as  the  ship 
in  which  it  is  affirmed  that  St.  Philip,  St.  Joseph,  and  the  rest,  were  put 
hj  the  Jews,  into  a  vessel  without  sails  or  oars,  with  intent  to  drown 
them  ;  and,  heiug  tossed  with  tempests,  in  the  Mid-land  Sea,  at  last 
safely  landed  at  Marseilles  in  France,"  and  thence  afterwards  made 
for  England.  (Ch.  Hist.  yoI.  i.  p.  13.)  No  such  strange  piece  of 
errantry,  (if  we  mark  it  well,)  as  to  render  the  whole  truth  suspected. 

Fulleh. — Not  by  way  of  scorn,'  Sir,  but  by  way  of  dislike  and 
distrust.  The  more  I  mark  it,  the  more  strange  piece  of  enantry 
it  seemeth ;  so  that  I  cannot  meet  with  a  stranger. 

Dr.  Heylin. — For,  First,  we  find  it  in  the  monuments  of  elder 
times,  that  Acrisius,  king  of  Argos,  exposed  his  daughter  Danae,  with 
her  young  son  Perseus,  in  such  a  vessel  as  this  was,  and  as  ill-proTided 
of  all  necessaries,  to  the  open  seas ;  who,  notwithstanding,  by  the 
Divine  Providence,  were  safely  wafted  to  those  parts  of  Italy  which  we 
now  call  Puglia. 

Fuller. — "  Monuments  of  elder  times  !  ^  What  be  your  acts, 
if  these  be  your  monuments  ?  "Ask  my  fellow  if  I  be  a  thief;'' 
ask  a  poetical  fable,  if  a  monkish  legend  be  a  liar.  And  what,  if 
Danae  (the  self-same,  forsooth,  which  had  a  golden  shower  rained 
into  her  lap)  crossed  from  Argos  in  Peloponnesus,  to  Apulia,  now 
Puglia,  almost  in  a  straight  line,  and  the  narrowest  part  of  the 
Adriatic  ?  This  doth  not  parallel  the  improbability  of  Joseph's 
voyage,  in  an  unaccoutred  ship,  from  some  port  in  Palestine,  to 
Marseilles,  the.  way  being  ten  times  as  far,  full  of  flexures,  and 
making  of  several  points  ;  which  costs  our  seamen  some  months  in 
sailing,  though  better  accommodated.  I  confess,  God''s  power  can 
bring  any  a  greater  distance,  with  cordage  of  cobweb,  in  a  nutshell; 
but  no  wise  man  will  make  his  belief  so  cheap,  to  credit  such  a 
miracle,  except  it  be  better  attested. 

Dr.  Heylin. — And,  Secondly,  for  the  middle  times,  we  have  the 
like  story  in  an  author  above  all  exception ;  even  our  author  himself, 
who  telleth  us,  in  vol.  ii.  page  144,  of  our  present  History,  that  "  king 
Athelstan  put  his  brother  Edwin  into  a  little  wherry  or  cock-boat, 
without  any  tackling  or  furniture  thereunto,  to  the  end,"  that  if  the 
poor  prince  perished,  "his  wickedness  might  be  imputed  to  the 
waves." 

Fuller. — Thanks  for  the  jeer  premised.  I  am  not  the  author, 
but  bare  relater,  of  that  story,  obvious  in  all  our  English  Chro- 
nicles. Nor  is  the  story  "  like ''  to  that  of  Joseph's,  except  he  had 
been  drowned  in  his  waftage  to  Marseilles,  as  this  exposed  prince 
Edwin  was  in  our  narrow  seas,  (whether  wilfully  or  casually,  not  so 
certain,)  his  corpse  being  taken  up  in  Flanders.     The  resemblance 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  TdB  CHUROH-HISTOBlT,  BOOR  t.       367 

betwixt  stories  elueflj  consists  in  siniilitade  of  success ;  and  what 
likeness  betwixt  a  miserable  death,  and  a  mimcalous  deliyerance  ? 

10.  Dr.  Heylin. — Our  author  objecteth  in  the  next  place,  "that 
no  writer  of  credit  can  be  produced  before  the  Conquest,  who  men- 
tioneth  Joseph's  coming  hither."  (Gh.  Hist  toL  i.  p.  13.)  For  answer 
whereunto,  it  may,  First,  be  said,  that  where  there  is  a  constant 
tmcontroUed  tradition,  there  is  most  commonly  the  less  care  taken  to 
commit  it  to  writing. 

Fuller.—"  Less  care  ^  implieih  some  care ;  whereas  here  no 
care,  but  a  panic  silence  of  all  authors,  British,  Saxon,  and  Christian, 
for  a  thousand  years  together.  Secondly.  The  Animadvertor 
might  liave  done  well  to  have  instanced  in  any  one  tradition,  (seeing 
he  saith  it  is  most  commonly  done,)  which  is  constant  and  uncon- 
trolled, yet  attested  by  no  creditable  author,  and  then  let  him  carry 
the  cause. 

Dr.  Eetlin. — Secondly.  That  the  charters  of  Glastonbury,  relating 
from  the  Norman  to  the  Saxon  kings,  and  from  the  Saxons  to  the 
Britons,  being  all  built  upon  St.  Joseph's  coming  hither,  and  preaching 
bere,  may  senre  instead  of  many  authors  bearing  witness  to  it. 

And,  Thirdly,  that  Friar  Bale,  as  great  ofi  enemy  to  the  unwarrant- 
able traditions  of  the  church  of  Rome,  as  our  author  can  desire  to 
haye  him,  hath  vouched  two  witnesses  hereunto,  that  is  to  say,  Melki- 
nu8  ATalonius,*  and  Gildas  Albinus ;  whose  writings,  or  some  frag- 
ments of  them,  he  may  be  beHered  to  hare  seen,  ^ough  our  author 
hath  not. 

Puller. — Nor  the  Animadvertor,  neither.  Bale  doth  not 
iBtimate  that  he  ever  saw  any  part  of  them ;  and  he  useth  to 
cackle  when  lighting  on  such  eggs.  But  we  collect  from  him  and 
other  authors,  that  no  credit  is  to  be  given  to  such  supposititious 
fragments. 

11.  Dr.  Hetlin.— -As  £:>r  some  circumstances  in  the  story,  that  is 
to  say,  the  dedicating  of  Joseph's  first  church  to  the  viigin  Mary,  the 
hctrying  of  his  body  in  it,  and  the  enclosing  of  the  same  with  a  large 
church-yard ;  I  look  upon  them  as  the  products  of  monkish  ignorance, 
accommodated  unto  the  fashion  of  those  times  which  the  writers  lived 
in.  There  is  scarce  any  saint  in  all  the  Calendar,  whose  history  would 
not  be  subject  to  the  like  misconstructions,  if  the  additaments  of  the 
middle  and  darker  times  should  be  produced  to  the  disparagement  of 
the  whole  narration. 

Fuller. — Now  the  reader  sees  my  prediction  performed ; 
namely,  that  after  the  Animadvertor  had  flounced  about,  he  would 
close  vith  my  sense  in  his  own  words.     Is  not  this  the  very  same, 

•  See  Fuller's  remarks  on  this  word  in  a  preceding  page.  (361.)— Edit. 

Digitized  by  CjOOQ IC 


368  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  I. 

in  effect,  with  what  I  said,  approving  the  sabstance,  but  rejectbg 
the  fabulous  circumstances,  of  the  story  of  Joseph  ?  In  all  this,  he 
hath  done  just  nothing,  save  only  swelled  his  book,  (though  hollow 
within,)  to  make  it  amount  to  a  saleable  bigness. 

12.  Dr.  Heylin. — But  such  an  enemy  our  author  is  to  all  old  tra- 
ditions, that  he  must  needs  have  a  blow  at  Olastonbuiy  thorn,  though 
before  cut  down  by  some  soldiers,  as  himself  confesseth ;  like  Sir  John 
Falstaff  in  the  play,  who,  to  show  his  valour,  nrust  thrust  his  sword 
into  the  bodies  of  those  men  which  were  dead  before. 

Fuller. — Not  to  "  all  old  traditions,^'  good  Animadvertor. 
St.  Paul  saith,  "Hold  the  traditions  which  you  have  been  taught, 
whether  by  word,  or  our  epistle,"  2  Thess.  ii.  15.  Such  traditions  as 
these,  whether  in  doctrine  or  practice,  I  desire  to  retain.  As  for 
unwitnessed  traditions,  my  enmity  is  not  such  but  in  the  heat  thereof 
I  can  smile  at  them.  The  Animadvertor  hath  wronged  me,  and 
the  comedian  hath  wronged  Sir  John  Falstaff.  He  was  a  valiant 
knight,  famous  for  his  achievements  in  France,  made,  as  the  History 
of  St.  George  testifieth,  (page  329,)  Knight  of  the  Garter  by 
Henry  VI.  and  one  who  disdained  to  violate  the  concernments  of 
the  dead.  Nor  have  I  been  injurious  to  the  thorn  of  Glastonbury, 
Jiving  or  dead,  as  will  appear. 

Dr.  Heylin..— The  budding  or  blossoming  of  this  thorn,  he  accounts 
xmtrue,  ("  This,  were  it  true^  &c.,)  aflfinning,  from  I  know  not  whom, 
*'  That  it  doth  not  punctually  and  critically  bud  on  Christmas-day,  hut 
on  the  days  near  it  and  about.it."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  16.)  And  were 
it  no  otherwise  than  «o,  the  miracle  were  not  much  the  less  than  if  it 
budded  critically  on  Christmas-day;  as  I  have  heard,  from  persona 
of  great  worth  and  credit  dwelling  near  the  plage,  that  indeed  it  did; 
though  unto  such  as  had  a  mind  to  decry  the  festival,  it  was  no  very 
hard  matter  to  belie  the  miracle. 

FtJLLEE. — My  words  amount  not  to  an  absolute  denial,  but  to 
some  dissatisfaction.  Parcel-diffidelity  in  matters  of  such  nature,  I 
am  sure,  is  no  sin,  Mr.  Taylor,  burgess  for  Bristol  in  the  Long 
Parliament,  was  he  who  told  me,  that,  going  thither  purposely  with 
his  kinsman,  it  did  not  that  year  exactly  bud  on  Christmas-day :  » 
person  as  improbable  to  decry  the  festival,  being  a  colonel  on  the 
king's  side,  who  refusing  quarter  was  killed  under  the  walls  ot 
Bristol ;  so  unlikely,  if  living,  to  have  taken  the  lie  from  the  pen 
of  the  Animadvertor. 

And  now,  reader,  (seeing  some  mirth  will  not  be  amiss,)  know, 
that  as  I  do  not  believe  his  report,  who,  on  a  Christmas-day, 
stroking  his  hand  down  his  doublet  before,  found  there  a  great 
green  quick-set  suddenly  grown,  and  wondered  thereat,  until  he 


Digitized  by 


Ljoogle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURGH-HISTORV,  BOOK  I.       369 

remembered  that  the  moulds  of  his  bald-worn  buttons  were  made  of 
GkstoBbury-thom ;  so  am  I  not  of  so  sullen  and  morose  a  nature, 
as  not  to  credit  what  is  generally  and  credibly  reported.  Nor  do 
my  words  positively  and  peremptorily  conclude  against  the  budding 
of  this  thorn,  but  against  the  necessary  relating  thereof  to  Arima- 
thean  Joseph ;  which  I  rather  leave  at  large  to  some  occult  quality 
in  nature,  paralleling  it  with  the  like,  (nev^r  as  yet  fathered  on  any 
saint  the  causer  thereof,)  the  oak  in  Hampshire.  But  enough,  lest 
we  occasion  the  altering  of  the  proverb  from  de  land  caprind^  into 
de  coma  Glastoniensi, 

13.  Dr.  Hetlin. — In  fine,  our  author  either  is  unwilling  to  have 
the  gospel  as  soon  preached  here  as  in  other  places,  or  else  we  must 
bare  preachers  for  it  from  he  knov\^s  not  whence.  8uch  preachers  we 
mn8t  have  as  either  drop  down  immediately  from  the  heayens,  as 
Diana's  image  is  said  to  have  done  by  the  town-clerk  of  Ephesus ; 
or  else  must  suddenly  rise  out  of  the  earth,  as  Tages,  the  first  sooth- 
sayer amongst  the  Tuscans,  is  reported  to  have  done  by  some  ancient 
writers.  And  yet  we  cannot  say  of  our  author  neither,  as  Lactantius 
did  of  one  Acesilas,  (if  my  memory  ^  not,)  Recti  hie  aliorum 
^stuUt  dUciplinaSj  sed  non  recti  fundavit  tuam;  that  is  to  say, 
^^that  thougb  he  had  laid  no  good  grounds  for  his  own  opinion, 
yet  he  had  solidly  confuted  the  opinions  of  others."  Our  author 
hath  a  way  by  himself,  neither  well  skilled  in  pulling  down  nor  ia 
building  up. 

Puller. — I  have  plucked  nothing  down  but  what  would  have 
fallen  of  itself,  and  thereby  perchance  hurt  others,  (I  mean,  mis* 
inform  them,}  as  grounded  on  a  foundered  foundation.  In  place 
whereof,  I  have  erected,  if  not  so  fair,  a  more  firm  fabric,  acknow- 
ledging that  apostolical  men  did  at  first  found  the  gospel  here ; 
though,  to  use  my  words,  "  the  British  church  hath  forgotten  her 
own  infancy,  and  who  were  her  first  godfathers ;"  adding  hereto, 
that,  "as  God  concealed  the  body  of  Moses  to  prevent  idolatry; 
(Deut.  xjudv.  6 ;)  so  to  cut  oflT  fi'om  posterity  all  occasion  of  super- 
stition, he  suffered  the  memories  of  our  primitive  planters  to  be 
buried  in  obscurity.""  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  11.) 

This  is  enough  to  satisfy  any  ingenuous  person,  who  preferreth  a 
niodest  truth  before  adventurous  assertions,  having  in  them  much  of 
Msehood  and  more  of  uncertainty. 

Dr.  Hkylin.-— From  the  first  conversion  of  the  Britons,  proceed  we 
now  unto  the  second,  as  Parsons  calls  it,  or  rather  from  the  first 
preachiiig  to  the  propagation.  The  Christian  faith,  here  planted  by 
St.  Peter  or  St.  Joseph,  (or  perhaps  planted  by  the  one,  and  watered 
lather  by  the  other,  in  their  several  times,)  .had  still  a  being  in  this 
^kad  till  the  time  of  Lucius.     So  that  there  was  no  need  of  a  new 

B  B 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ IC 


970  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  I.    j 

conyenion,  but  only  of  some  able  labourers  to  take  in  the  haryest. 
The  miracles  done  by  some  pious  Christians,  induced  king  Lucius  to 
send  Elyanus  and  Meduinus,  two  of  that  profession,  to  the  pope  of 
Rome,  requesting  principally,  that  some  preachers  might  be  sent  to 
instruct  him  in  the  faith  of  Christ.  Which  the  pope  did  according 
to  the  king's  desire,  sending  Faganus  and  Derwianus,  two  right  godly 
men,  by  whom  much  people  were  converted,  the  temples  of  the  gods 
converted  into  Christian  churches,  the  hierarchy  of  bishops  settled^ 
and  the  whole  building  raised  on  so  good  a  foundation,  that  it  con- 
tinued undemolished  till  the  time  of  the  Saxons. 

FuLLEE. — This  is  the  sum  and  substance  of  the  story  of  king 
Lucius,  which  the  Animadvertor  hath  breviated,  and  with  whom  I 
concur  therein.  It  never  came  into  my  thoughts  to  doubt  the  sub- 
stance, but  deny  some  circumstances,  thereof.  My  own  expression 
is,  that  the  whole  bulk  thereof  "  is  not  to  be  refused,  but  refined  f 
(Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  20 ;)  and  to  this  I  adhere. 

Dr.  Heylin.— And,  in  the  summing  up  of  this  story,  our  author, 
having  refuted  some  petit  arguments  which  had  been  answered  to  his 
hand,  (though  much  mistaken  by  the  way  in  taking  Deiotarus,  king  of 
Galatia,  for  a  king  of  Sicily,  vol.  i.  p.  20,)  gives  us  some  other  in  their 
stead,  which  he  thinks  unanswerable. 

Fuller. — I  deny  not  that  pope  Eleutherius  might  or  did  send 
a  letter  to  king  Lucius,  but  I  justly  suspect  the  letter  now  extant 
to  be  but  pretended  and  forged.  I  never  thought  (by  the  way,  how 
came  the  Animadvertor  to  know  my  thoughts?)  my  arguments 
unanswerable,  but  now  I  say  they  are  unanswered ;  standing  in  Ml 
force,  notwithstanding  any  alleged  by  the  Animadvertor  to  the  con- 
trary. I  confess  a  memory-mistake  of  Sicilia  for  Galatia :  and  as  it 
is  the  first  fault  he  hath  detected  in  my  book,  so  shall  it  be  the  first 
by  me  (God  willing)  amended  in  the  next  edition. 

14.  Dr.  Hbylin. — ^First,  he  objects  against  the  pope's  answer  to 
the  king,  tiiat  ^^  it  relates  to  a  former  letter  of  king  Lucius  wherein  he 
requested  of  the  pope  to  send  him  a  copy  or  cdlection  of  the  Roman 
laws ;  which  being  at  that  time  in  force  in  the  isle  of  Britain,  was  bat 
actum  agere"  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  22.)  But,  certainly,  though  those 
parts  of  Britain  in  which  Lucius  reigned,  were  governed  in  part,  and 
but  in  part,  by  the  laws  of  Rome  ;  yet  were  the  laws  of  Borne  at  that 
time  more  in  number,  and  of  a  far  more  general  practice,  than  to  be 
limited  to  so  narrow  a  part  of  their  dominions.  Two  thousand 
volumes  we  find  of  them  in  Justinian's  time ;  out  of  which,  by  the  help 
of  Theophilus,  Trebonianus,  and  many  other  learned  men  of  that  noble 
faculty,  the  emperor  composed  that  book  or  body  of  law  which,  fi'om 
the  universality  of  its  comprehension,  we  still  call  the  "pandects."  .So 
that  king  Lucius,  being  desirous  to  inform  himself  in  the  laws  of  ^ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVSRSIONS  ON  THE  €HURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  I.       371 

empire,  (whether  in  force  or  ont  of  use,  we  regard  not  now,)  might  as 
well  make  it  one  of  his  desires  to  ihe  pope  of  Rome ;  as  any  great 
person,  living  in  Ireland  in  qneen  Elizabeth's  time,  might  write  to  the 
archbishop  of  Ganterbuiy  to  procure  for  him  all  the  Books  of  Statutes, 
the  Year-Books,  Commentaries,  and  Reports  of  the  ablest  lawyers, 
though  Ireland  were  goremed  at  that  time  by  the  laws  of  England. 
For  though  pope  Elentherius  knew  better  how  to  suffer  martyrdom  for 
Christ's  cause,  (as  our  author  hath  it,)  than  to  play  the  adrocate  in 
another's;  yet  did  not  that  rend^  hbn  unable  to  comply  with  the 
king's  desires,  but  that  he  thought  it  better  to  commend  the  knowledge 
of  God's  law  to  his  care  and  study. 

FuLLKB. — One  who  hath  taken  but  two  turns  in  Trinity- Hall- 
court  in  Cambridge,  knows  full  well  what  pandects  are,  and  why  so 
called.  All  this  is  but  prefatory:  I  wait  for  the  answer  to  the 
objection  still  to  come. 

15.  Dr.  Heylin.— In  the  next  place,  it  is  objected,  that  ^^  this 
letter  mounts  king  Lucius  to  too  high  a  throne,  making  him  the 
monarch  or  king  of  Britain,  who  neither  was  the  supreme  nor  sole 
king  here,  but  partial  and  subordinate  to  the  Romans."  (Ch.  Hist 
ToL  i.  p.  22.)  This  we  acknowledge  to  be  true,  but  no  way  prejudicial 
to  the  cause  in  hand.  Lucius  both  was  and  might  be  caUed  ^'  the 
king  of  Britain,"  though  tributary  and  Tassal  to  the  Roman  emperors ; 
as  tiie  two  Baliols,  John  and  Edward,  were  both  kings  of  Scotland, 
though  homagers  and  vassals  to  Edward  I.  and  III.  of  England ;  the 
kings  of  Naples,  to  the  pope;  and  those  of  Austria  and  Bohemia,  to 
the  German  emperors. 

PuLLEK.— A  blank  is  better  than  such  writing  to  no  purpose. 
For,  First,  both  the  Baliols,  in  their  several  times,  were  (though  not 
supreme)  sole  kings  of  Scotland.  So  were  the  kings  of  Naples,  and 
the  king  of  Austria,  (there  never  being  but  one,  the  first,  and  last, 
namely,  Fredoritus  Leopoldus,*)  and  the  kings  of  Bohemia  in  their 
respective  dominions.  Not  so  Lucius,  who  was  neither  supreme 
nor  sole  king  of  Britain. 

Besides,  the  Baliols,  being  kings  of  Scotland,  did  never  style 
themselves,  or  were  styled  by  others,  kings  of  Britain.  The  kings 
of  Naples  never  entituled  themselves  kings  of  Italy :  nor  the  kings 
of  Austria  and  Bohemia  ever  wrote  themselves,  or  were  written  to, 
as  kings  of  Germany. 

Whereas  Lucius  (ruler  only  in  the  south-west  part  of  this  isle) 
is  in  this  letter  made  king  of  Britain, — more  than  came  to  his  share  : 
an  argument  that  the  forger  thereof  was  unacquainted  with  the  con- 
stitution of  his  kingdom.     And  this  just   exception   stands  firm 


Seb,  Munsterus  De  Germanid, 

2b  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


37iJ  APPEAL  OP  INJURED  INNOCfiNCE*  PART  I. 

against  the  letter,  whatever  the  Animadvertor  hath  alleged  in  tie 
excuse  thereof* 

16.  Dr.  Heylix. — Nor  doth  the  next  objection  giye  us  any  trouble 
at  all,  that  is  to  say,  that  ^  the  scripture  quoted  in  that  letter  is  out 
of  St.  Hierome's  translation,  which  came  more  than  a  hundred  years 
after."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  22.)  Unless  it  can  he  proved  withal,  (as  I 
think  it  cannot,)  that  Hierome  followed  not,  in  those  texts,  those  old 
translations  which  were  before  received  and  used  in  the  western 
churches. 

Fuller. — See  the  different  tempers  of  men,  how  some,  in  point 
of  truth,  are  of  a  tenderer  constitution  than  others.  The  primate 
[Usher  of]  Armagh  was  so  sensible  of  the  strength  of  this  reason, 
that  it  made  him  conclude  against  the  authenticalness  of  the 
letter.* 

17»  Dr.  Hetlin.-— Less  am  I  moved  with  that  which  follows, 
namely,  "  That  this  letter,  not  appearing  till  a  thousand  years  after  the 
death  of  pope  Eleutherius,  might  probably  creep  out  of  some  monks 
cell,  some  four  hundred  years  since."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  22.)    Which 
allegation  being  admitted,  (the  mohk's  cell  excepted,)  it  makes  no 
more  to  the  discredit  of  the  letter  which  we  have  before  us,  than 
to  the  undervaluing  of  those  excellent  monuments  of  piety  and  learn- 
ing, which  have  been  recovered  of  late  times  from  the  dust  and  moths 
of  ancient  libraries.     Such  treasures,  like  money  long  locked  up,  is 
never  thought  less  profitable  when  it  comes  abroad.     And  from  what 
place  soever  it  first  came  abroad,  I  am  confident  it  came  not  out  of  any 
mohk's  cell;  that  generation  being  then  wholly  at  the  popes  devotion, 
by  consequence  not  likely  to  divulge  an  evidence  so  manifestly  tending 
to  the  overthrow  of  his  pretensions.     The  popes,  about  four  hundred 
years  since,  were  mounted  to  the  height  of  that  power  and  tyranny 
which  they  claimed  as  vicars  unto  Christ ;  to  which  there  could  not 
any  thing  be  more  plainly  contrary  than  that  passage  in  the  popes 
letter,  whereto  he  tells  the  king,  "  that  he  was  God's  vicar  in  his  own 
kingdom,"  Fos  estis  vicarius  Dei  in  regno  vestro^  as  the  Latin  hat^ 
it :  too  great  a  secret  to  proceed  "  from  the  cell  of  a  monk,"  wno 
would  have  rather  forged  ten  decretals  to  uphold  the  popish  usurp- 
ations over  sovereign  princes,  than  published  one  only  (whether  true 
or  false)  to  subvert  the  same.     Nor  doth  this  letter  only  give  the  king 
an  empty  title,  but  such  a  title  as  imports  the  exercise  of  the  chie 
ecclesiastical  power  within  his  dominions.     For  thus  it  followeth  m 
the  same :  "  The  people  and  the  folk  of  the  realm  of  Britain  be  yours, 
whom,  if  they  be  divided,  ye  ought  to  gather  in  concord  and  peace,  to 
call  them  to  the  faith  and  law  of  Christ,  to  cherish  and  maintain  them, 
to  rule  and  govern  them,  so  as  you  may  reign  everlastingly  with  Him 
whose  vicar  you  are."     So  far  the  very  words  of  the  letter,  as  our 

•  I>e  Primord.  Eccles,  Brit. 

Digitized  by  CjOOQ IC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  I.      373 

autBor  rendereth  them,  which  saTonr  hi  more  of  the  honest  Bimplicity 
of  the  primitiTe  popes,  than  the  impostures  and  supposititious  issues  of 
the  latter  times. 

Fuller. — I  confess  some  precious  pieces  of  antiquity,  long 
latent  in  obscurity,  have  at  last  broke  forth  into  the  light,  with  no 
little  advantage  to  learning.  But,  then,  such  were  entire  books ; 
and  we  know  how,  when,  where,  and  by  whom,  they  were  found 
out,  and  brought  forth.  Whereas  this  loose  letter  secretly  and  slily 
slid  into  the  world,  unattended  with  any  such  circumstances  to 
attest  the  genuineness  thereof.  Children  casually  lost  are  no  whit 
the  less  legitimate ;  and  beloved  the  more,  when  found  and  owned 
of  their  parents.  But  give  me  leave  to  suspect  that  babe  a  bastard, 
which  is  left  on  a  bulk,  or  under  a  stall ;  no  father  being  found,  or 
mother,  to  naaintain  it.  A  presumption  tbat  this  letter  of  Eleuthe* 
riufi  is  supposititious, 

I  confess  this  pretended  letter  of  Lucius  hath  something  in  it, 
which  doth  act  and  personate  primitive  simplicity,  (as  that  passage 
of  regal  power  in  church-matters,)  but  more  which  doth  practise  the 
monkish  ignorance  of  later  times.  There  were  lately  false  twenty* 
shilling  pieces,  (commonly  called  "  Morgans,"*")  coined  by  a  cun- 
ning and  cheating  chemist,  whose  part  without  the  rind  was  good 
gold,  and  would  endure  the  touch,  whilst  that  within  was  base  as 
but  double-gilded  brass.  Such,  this  letter  of  Lucius ;  some  part 
whereof  will  endure  the  test,  the  other  not :  the  monk  who  made  it 
pretending  something  of  antiquity,  (so  to  palliate  the  deceit,)  but 
having  more  of  the  novelty  of  the  middle  age.  He  lived  in  some 
six  hundred  years  since. 

May  the  reader  be  pleased  to  take  notice,  that  the  Animadvertor 
tath  silently  passed  by  the  strongest  argument  to  shatter  the  credit 
of  this  letter  alleged  by  me,  and  taken  from  a  phrase  unknown  in 
that  age,  yet  used  in  the  letter,  even  manu  tenere^  "  to  maintain,  or 
defend."  This  the  Animadvertor  slips  over  in  silence ;  and  that,  I 
believe,  for  nineteen  reasons,  whereof  this  was  one, — because  he 
himself  was  unable  to  answer  it,  and  knew  critics  would  laugh  at 
bim,  if  affirming  those  words,  in  that  sense,  contemporary  with  pope 
Eleutherius.  Herein  he  appears  like  a  Dunkirker,  who  delights  to 
prey  on  poor  merchants'  ships  passing  on  in  their  calling;  but, 
meeting  an  English  man-of-war,  he  can  look  big,  and  fairly  give 
bim  the  go-by.  He  finds  it  more  facile  to  carp  an  easy,  inoffensive 
passage,  than  to  confute  what  hath  difficulty  and  strength  of  reason 
therein. 

I  resume  what  I  said  before,  and  what  the  Animadvertor  hath 
gainsayed  to  no  purpose ;  namely,  that  this  story  of  king  Lucius  is 
aot  to  be  refused  but  refined,  and  the  dross  is  to  be  put  from  the 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ IC 


374  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  1. 

good  metal ;  or,  (as  my  own  words  also  are,)  the  good  com  theiein 
sifted  from  the  chafP;  and,  amongst  the  chaff,  I  haye  cast  avay 
this  letter.  But  if  the  Animadvertor  lores  to  eat  both  corn  and 
chaff,  much  good  may  his  diet  do  him,  and  let  him  and  hone  feed 
on  their  loaf  together. 

18.  Dr.  Hetlin.— Our  author  tells  us,  (Ch.  Hist  toL  i.  p.  18,) 
that  he  had  ventured  on  this  story  "  with  much  arerseness;"  and  we 
dare  heUere  him.  He  had  not  else  laboured  to  discredit  it  in  so  many 
particulars,  and  wilfully  (that  I  say  no  worse)  suppressed  the  best  part 
of  the  evidence,  &c. 

Fuller.— Can  he  say  worse  than  "  wilfully,"  except  it  be 
maliciously  f  Seeing,  in  my  conscience  I  believe  the  story  of  tte 
conversion  of  king  Lucius ;  though  this  letter,  and  some  other  CI^ 
cumstances,  seem  to  me  improbable. 

I  entered  on  this  story  "with  this  "  much  averseness,"  as  finding 
much  difficulty,  and  fearing  not  to  give  satisfaction  therein  to 
myself  and  others. 

I  see  not  how  it  can  be  inferred  from  such  my  averseness,  that  I 
therefore  **  laboured  to  discredit  the  story  in  so  many  particulars. 

If  this  be  a  good  consequence,  I  desire  the  reader  to  remember 
what  the  Animadvertor  hath  written  in  the  latter  end  of  the  intro- 
duction to  his  Animadversions  on  my  book ;  namely,  "  I  must  needs 
confess  withal,  that  I  did  never  enter  more  unwillingly  upon  any 
undertaking,  than  I  did  on  this.*" 

May  I  not  then,  by  the  same  logic,  conclude  his  endeavouring  to 
disparage  my  book,  because  he  entered  thereon  so  unwillingly? 

Dr.  Hbtlin — ^The  best  part  of  the  evidence  in  the  words  of  Beds; 
who,  being  no  friend  unto  the  Britons,  hath  notwithstanding  done 
them  right  in  this  great  business.     And  from  him  take  the  stoij  i^ 
these  following  words :  Anno  ah  incarnatione  Domini,  156,  S^c      ^n 
the  156th  year  after  Christ's  nativity,  Marcus  Antonius  Verus,  together  j 
with  Aurelius  Commodus  his  brother,  did,  in  the  fourteenlh  pl^ee 
from  Augustus  Cttsar,  undertake  the  government  of  the  empire.    >^  | 
whose  times,  when  as  Eieutherius,  a  godly  man,  was  bishop  of  tne 
church  of  Rome,  Lucius  king  of  the  Britons  sent  unto  him,  obsecrans  | 
ut  per  ejus  mandatum   Christianus  efficeretury    ^intreating  hy  n^ 
means  to  be  made  a  Christian.'    Whose  virtuous  desire  herein  was 
granted;  and  the  faith  of  Christ,  being  thus  received  by  the  Britons, 
was  by  them  kept  inviolate  and  undefiled  until  the  time  of  DiocletiaDi. 
This  is  the  substance  of  the  story,  as  by  him  delivered ;  tnie  in 
main,  though  possibly  there  may  be  some  mistake  in  his  chronology) 
as  in  a  matter  not  so  canvassed  as  it  hath  been  lately.  . 

Fuller.— I  entered  a  Grand  Jury  of  authors,  who  mentioned 
the  conversion  of  Lucius ;  amongst  whom  Bede  is  one.     I  exff^ 


Digiti 


zedbyLiiOOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  I.       375 

none  of  them,  (as  I  had  no  cause,)  in  their  words  at  length; 
neither  can  I  properly  be  said  to  iuppresa  any  of  them,  solemnly 
giving-in  their  names,  and  the  sevenl  dates  which  they  assign  to 
that  memorable  action. 

19.  Dr.  Heylin. — Now  to  proceed  onto  our  author,  he  tells  ug, 
out  of  Jeffrey  of  Monmouth,  **  That  at  this  time  there  were  in  Eng- 
land twenty--eight  cities,  each  of  them  haying  a  Jlamen^  or  pagan 
priest ;  and  three  of  them  (namely,  London,  York,  and  Gaer-leon  in 
Wales)  had  arck-ftamens^  to  which  the  rest  were  subjected:  and 
Lucius  placed  bishops  in  the  room  of  the  fiamensy  and  archbishops, 
metropolitans,  in  the  places  of  arch-fiament ;"  concluding,  in  the  way 
of  scorn,  ^  that  his  jlamens  and  arch-Jlamens  seem  to  be  flams  and 
arch-flams,  CTen  notorious  fidsehoods."  (Ch.  Hist.  rol.  i.  p.  22.) 

Fuller. — I  would  not  willingly  "  sit  in  the  seat  of  the 
scoraer;^  (Psalm  i.  1 ;)  and  if  the  Animadvertor  by  his  force 
will  thrust  me  down  into  it,  I  will  (God  wiUing)  rise  up  again,  and 
leave  the  place  empty  to  himself  to  stand  or  sit  therein,  pro  libera 
mo  arUtrio^ 

I  say  no  more,  nor  so  much,  as  that  worthy  knight  sir  Henry 
Spelman  (so  great  an  antiquary,  that  it  is  questionable  whether  his 
industry,  judgment,  or  humility  were  the  greatest)  hath  said  on  the 
same  subject ;  who,  having  learnedly  confuted  this  report  of  Jeffrey 
of  Monmoutli,  concludeth  with  the  cause  of  his  mistdie,  relying  on 
some  supposititious  epistles. 

Gaufrido  autem  atque  aliis^  qui  fiaminwn^  archiflaminwm^  et 
protoflaminum  cammento  capiuntur,  imposuisse  videtur  Gratiani 
authoritasy  epistolis  munita  8.  Luciiy  ^c. — Sir  H.  Spelman  De 
Coneiliisy  page  13. 

See !  he  calleth  that  eommentumf  which  our  dictionaries  English 
"a  flat  lie;''  which  I  have  mitigated  into  "a  flam,''  as  importing 
in  common  discourse  ^^  a  falsehood,"  which  hath  more  of  vanity  than 
mischief  therein. 

Dr.  Heylin. — And  it  is  well  they  do  but  seem  so;  it  being  pos- 
sible enough  that  they  may  seem  falsehoods  to  our  author,  even 
notorious  fabehoods ;  though  they  seem  true  enough  to  others,  even 
apparent  truths. 

Fuller. — They  seem  so  also  to  learned  sir  Henry  Spelman, 
lately  alleged ;  and  to  the  reverend  archbishop  of  Armagh,  and 
many  others. 

Br.  Heylin. — And,  First,  though  Jeffrey  of  Monmouth  seem  to 
deserve  no  credit  in  this  particular,  where  he  speaks  against  our 
author  8  sense ;  yet  in  another  place,  where  he  comes  up  to  his  desires, 
ae  is  otherwise  thought  of,  and  therefore  made  the  foreman  of  the 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


376  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  I. 

grand  inqnest  agsdnst  Aiigastine  the  monk,  wliom  lie  indicteth  for  the 
murder  of  the  monks  of  Bangor.  And,  oertainlj,  if  Jeffrey  may  be 
beliered  when  he  speaks  in  passion,  ^^  when  his  Welsh  hlood  was  up," 
as  our  author  words  it,  as  one  that  was  *^  concerned  in  the  cause  of  his 
countrymen ;"  (Ch.  Hist.  rol.  i.  p.  93 ;)  he  may  more  easily  be  beliered 
in  a  cause  of  so  remote  antiquity,  where  neither  love  nor  hatred,  nor 
any  other  prevalent  affection,  had  any  power  or  reason  to  divert  him 
from  the  way  of  truth. 

FuLLEK. — It  is  usual  with  all  authors,  sometimes  to  dose  vi4 
the  judgments  of  the  same  person,  from  whom  they  afterwards,  on 
just  cause,  may  dissent.  Apd  should  not  this  liberty  be  allowed 
me,  to  like  or  leave  in  JeflPrey  Monmouth  what  I  think  fitting? 
The  Animadvertor  concurreth  with  bishop  Godwin,  that  "the 
Druids  instructed  the  Britons  in  the  worship  of  one  God;^  yet 
will  not  be  concluded  with  his  judgment,  when  averring  the  letter 
fathered  on  Eleutherius  not  to  savour  of  the  style  of  that  age.  Yea, 
when  I  make  for  him,  he  can  allege  twenty  lines  together,  out  of 
my  book,  against  H.  le  Strange ;  though  at  other  times,  when  he 
hath  served  his  turn  of  me,  I  am  the  object  of  his  slighting  and 
contempt. 

Now  whereas  the  In-animadvertor  (for  now  I  must  so  call  him 
for  his  carelessness)  citeth  a  place  in  my  book,  namely,  Ch.  Hist, 
vol.  i.  p.  93,  that  I  "  make  Jeffrey  of  Monmouth  the  foreman  of  the 
great  inquest  against  Augustine  the  monk,"  he  is  much  mistaken 
therein.  For,  in  the  place  by  him  cited,  I  empanel  a  grand  jury 
(amongst  whom  Jeffrey  Monmouth  is  neither  foreman  nor  any 
man)  of  judicious  readers,  consisting  of  twenty-four.  As  false  is  it 
what  he  addeth,  as  if  in  that  trial  I  attributed  much  to  the  judg- 
ment of  Jeffrey  Monmouth ;  who  therein  is  only  produced  as  a 
witness,  and  a  verdict  brought  in,  point-blank  against  his  evidence, 
acquitting  ^ugustine  the  monk  of  the  murder,  whereof  Monmoutn 
did  accuse  him. 

Dr.  Heylin. — And,  Secondly,  though  Jeffrey  of  Monmouth  be  a 
writer  of  no  great  credit  with  me,  when  he  stands  single  by  himseli , 
yet  when  I  find  him  seconded  and  confirmed  by  others,  I  shall  not 
brand  a  truth  by  the  name  of  falsehood  because  he  reports  it.  No^ 
that  in  Britain  at  that  time  there  were  no  fewer  than  eight  and  twenty 
cities,  is  afBrmed  by  Beda.*  Henry  of  Huntingdon  not  only  agrees 
with  him  in  the  number,  but  gives  us  also  the  names  of  them ;  thougn 
where  to  find  many  of  them,  it  is  hard  to  say.t  That  in  each  of  these 
cities  was  some  temple  dedicated  to  the  pagan  gods,  that  those  temples 
afterwards  were  employed  to  the  use  of  Christians,  and  the  revenues 
of  them  assigned  over  to  the  maintenance  of  the  bishops  and  other 

•  Uist.  Ecclesiari.  AngL  lib.  viii.  cap.  13.  t  HUt.  lib.  i.  in  iniUo* 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  I.      377 

ministers  of  the  gospel,  hath  the  concurrent  testimony  of  approyed 
authors ;  that  is  to  say,  Matthew  of  Westminster  out  of  Gildas,  anno 
187 ;  Rodolph  de  Diceto,  cited  hy  the  learned  primate  of  Armagh  in 
his  hook  De  PrimardiU  Eccles.  Brit.  cap.  4;  Qeryase  of  Tilhury, 
ibid.  cap.  6.  And  for  the  fiament  and  arch-fiamens^  they  stand  not 
only  on  the  credit  of  Jeffirey  of  Monmouth,  hut  of  all  our  own  writers, 
who  speak  of  the  foundation  of  the  ancient  hishoprics,  eren  to 
Polydore  Yirgil. 

Fuller. — I  concur  with  the  Animadvertor  in  the  number  of 
the  cities  in  Britaia.  Also  I  do  not  deny  but  that  king  Lucius 
might  place  bishops  in  some  (perchance  half)  of  them,  which  I 
believe  is  all  which  the  Animadvertor  doth  desire.  Only  as  to 
bishops  and  archbishops  exactly  substituted  in  the  individuid  places 
of  flamens  and  archrflamenSy  my  belief  cannot  come  up  to  the 
height  thereof.  I  find  that  Oiraldus  Cambrensis,  and  other  authors 
of  that  age,  (though  concurring  with  Jeffrey  Monmouth  in  Lucius'^s 
episcopating  of  cities,)  make  not  any  mention  of  these  arch- 
flamens. 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^Nor  want  there  many  foreign  writers  who  affirm  the 
same ;  beginning  with  Martinus  Polonus ;  who,  being  esteemed  ^no 
friend  to  the  popedom,  because  of  the  story  of  pope  Joan  which  occurs 
in  his  writings,  may  the  rather  be  believed  in  the  story  of  Lucius. 
And  he  agrees  with  Jeflfrey  of  Monmouth  in  all  parts  of  the  story,  as 
to  the  Jlamens  and  arch-JlamenSy  as  do  also  many  other  of  the  Roman 
writers  which  came  after  him. 

Fuller. — Nothing  more  usual  than  for  foreign  writers,  with 
implicit  faith,  to  take  things  on  the  credit  of  such  who  have  wrote 
the  history  of  their  own  country.  But,  on  the  confutation  of  the 
leading  author,  the  rest  sink  of  course  of  themselves. 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^But  whereas  both  our  author  and  some  others  have 
raised  some  objections  against  this  part  of  the  History,  for  answer 
thereunto  I  refer  the  reader  to  the  learned  and  laborious  work  of 
Francis  Mason,  late  archdeacon  of  Norfolk,  Be  Ministerio  Angltcano; 
the  sum  whereof  in  brief  is  this.  Licet  in  und  urhe  mulli  jlaminesy 
"  that  though  there  were  many  Jlamens  in  one  city,  yet  was  there  only 
one  which  was  called  pontifex  or  primus  flaminum^  *the  pope  or 
principal  of  the  Jlamines ;'  of  which  kind  one  for  every  city,  were 
those  whom  our  Historians  speak  of/'  And  for  the  archi-jlamines  or 
proto-jlaminesy  though  the  name  occur  not  in  old  Roman  writers,  yet 
were  there  some  in  power  and  authority  above  the  rest,  who  were 
entituled  primi  pontificumy  (as  indeed  coifi  by  that  name  is  called  in 
Beda,)  which  is  the  same  in  sense  with  arehi-JlamineSy  although  not  in 
somid.  AH  I  shall  further  add  is  this,  that  if  these  twenty-eight  cities 
were  not  all  furnished  with  bishops  in  the  time  of  Lucius,  for  whom  it 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


378  ^      APFKAL  OF  INJUBBD  HfNOCSNCB.  FABT  I. 


iras  impoflslble  to  spread  his  arms  and  expreas  bk  power  oyer  aU  tiie 
south  ports  of  the  island ;  jret  may  the  honoor  of  the  woik  be  awaribed 
to  him,  becanse  began  bj  his  encunmgiancni,  and  perfected  by  \m 
example ;  as  Bomidns  is  geneiallj  esteemed  fer  the  founder  of  B<mie) 
although  the  least  part  of  that  great  citf  was  of  bis  foundation. 

Fuller. — Bat  whereas  both  ibe  AnimadTertor  and  scmie  others 
conceiye  their  answers  satisfiurtoiy  to  such  objections  raised  against 
this  part  of  the  History,  I  refer  the  reader  unto  sir  Hemy  Spel- 
man,*  and  to  the  archbishop  of  Armagh  ;f  both  as  learned  and 
judicious  antiquaries  as  ever  our  land  enjoyed. 

These,  it  seems,  were  not  satisfied  with  such  solutions  as  Mr. 
Mason  produceth  agabst  those  objections ;  because,  writing  later 
than  Mr.  Mason,  they  in  their  judgments  declare  themselves 
against  Jefirey  Monmouth  herein. 

20.  Dr.  Heylin. — Our  author  has  not  yet  done  with  Lucius.  For, 
admitting  the  story  to  be  true,  he  disallows  the  turning  of  the  pagan 
temples  into  Christian  churdies;  whidi  he  censureth  "^  as  the  putting 
of  new  wine  into  old  ressels,  which  afterwards  sayoured  of  the  cask, 
Christianity  hereby  getting  a  smadc  of  heathen  ceremonies."  (Ch.  Hist. 
ToL  i.  p.  24.)  But,  in  this  point,  the  primitiye  Christians  were  as  wise 
as  our  author,  though  they  were  not  so  nice ;  who,  without  f»nng 
any  such  *'  smack,"  accommodated  themselres  in  many  cereflionies  to 
the  Gentiles,  and  in  some  to  the  Jews ;  that,  "  being  all  things  to  all 
men,"  they  might  gain  the  more,  as  in  fine  they  did :  which  notwitn- 
standing,  our  author  hereupon  inferreth— 

Fuller. — ^I  only  humbly  tendered  my  weak  opinion  herein, 
that  religion  was  a  loser  by  such  mixtures.  If  it  findeth  bo  wel- 
come in  the  breast  of  the  Animadvertor  and  others,  no  hurt  is 
done ;  let  it  fairly  return  into  his  bosom,  who  (it  seems)  first  gave 
it  a  being,  though  I  could  cite  most  pious  and  learned  authors  of 
the  same  judgment.  But,  for  the  present,  let  all  the  weight  of  ^^ 
guilt  light  on  myself  alone. 

21.  Db.  Heylin.— Out  author  hereupon  inferreth:— "They  ^ 
better  hare  built  new  nests  for  the  Holy  Doye,  and  not  have  lodged  it 
where  screech-owls  and  unclean  birds  had  formerly  been  harboured. 
(Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  24.)  A  pretty  piece  of  new  divinity,  and  such  as 
savours  strongly  of  the  modem  Anabaptist;  such  as  not  only  dotn 
reproach  the  practice  of  most  pious  antiquity,  but  lays  a  sure  ground 
for  the  pulling  down  of  all  ouy  churches,  (as  having  been  abused  to 
popish  superstitions  in  the  former  times,)  if  ever  that  increasing  faction 
should  become  predominant.  What  pity  is  it  that  our  author  had  not 
lived  and  preached  this  doctrine  in  king  Edward's  time,  that,  the 
parochial  churches  and  cathedrals-  bemg  sent  after  the  abbeys,  "ne^ 

•  In  his  «  Couttcila/'  f  In  his  Primord,  EccL  Jngl. 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORT,  BOOK  I.      ^79 

nests  might  hate  been  built  for  the  Dore*  in  some  tree  or  other, 
imder  the  shade  whereof  the  people  might  assemble  to  their  derotionsl 
and  not  '^new  nests"  proTided  only,  but  new  feathers  also,— the  rest- 
ments  prescribed  to  the  ministers  hj  the  church  of  England  being  con* 
damned  and  disallowed  by  the  puritan  party,  because  in  nse  formerly 
with  the  priests  of  the  church  of  Borne.  More  of  this  stuff,  but  of  a 
more  dangerous  consequence  to  the  public  peace,  we  shall  see  here- 
after. 

FuLLKE. — I  do  not  quanrel  with  the  posture  ^of  my  nativity, 
knowing  ^^  God  hath  determined  the  times  fore-appointed  and  the 
bounds  of  their  habitation,*"  Acts  xvii.  23.  Nor  would  I  have  my 
being  antedated  in  the  days  of  kbg  Edward  VI.  whereby  my  soid 
should  be  degraded  into  a  dimmer  light,  than  what  now  I  live  in. 

Had  I  lived  in  his  reign,  I  know  not  what  I  would  have  done, 
seeing  one  may  be  lost  in  the  labyrinth  of  his  own  heart.  But 
though  I  know  not  what  I  tcauld  have  done,  I  know  what  I  should 
have  done,  namely,  persuaded,  to  my  power,  all  people  to  be  sen- 
sible of  the  vast  difference  betwixt  heathen  temples  and  Christian 
churches. 

The  former  were  the  sties  of  swine ;  yea,  the  dens  of  devils,  pro- 
faned to  the  foul  idols  of  Pagans. 

The  latter  were  dedicated  to  the  true  God,  and  the  memory  of 
bis  glorious  saints,  out  of  zeal  and  well-intended  devotion.  And 
though  the  same  were  abused  by  superstition,  yet  the  subitantidl 
use  of  them  might  remain,  when  their  o^tW^to/ abuse  was  removed, 
and  might  be  continued  for  Code's  service  without  any  sin ;  not  to 
say,  could  not  be  aliened  firom  it  without  some  sacrilege. 

22 — ^24.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^We  have  now  done  at  last  with  the  story 
of  Lucius,  and  must  next  follow  our  author  unto  that  of  Amphibalus  ; 
in  prosecution  whereof  he  telleth  us  of  a  great  slaughter  of  Christians 
in  or  near  the  city  of  Lichfield,  firom  thence  so  denominated,  of  which 
thus  saith  he ; — 

^'  This  relation  is  favoured  by  the  name  of  Lichfield,  which  in  the 
British  tongue  signifies  2kgolgotha^  or  '  a  place  bestrewed  with  skulls."* 
(Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  34.)  It  is  true  indeed  that  Litchfield,  or  Licidfield, 
as  Beda  calleth  it,  is  made  by  John  Ross  to  signify  Cadaverum 
Campus,  or  "  the  field  of  dead  bodies."  But  that  it  doth  so  signify 
in  the  British  language,  I  do  more  than  doubt ;  the  termination  of  the 
word  being  merely  Saxon,  as  in  Hefen-field,  Cock-field,  Camps-field, 
and  many  others.  As  little  am  I  satisfied  in  the  etymon-  of  the  name 
of  Maiden-head,  which  he  ascribes  unto  the  worshipping  of  the  head 
of  one  of  those  many  maidens  which  were  martyred  with  Ursula  at 
Cologne.  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  60.)  For  which  though  lie  cite  Camden 
for  his  author,  following  therein,  but  not  approving,  the  old  tradition ; 
yet  when  I  find  in  the  same  Camden,  that  this  town  was  formerly  called 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


380  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.        PART  I. 

Maiden-liith,  tbat  anciently  there  was  a  ferry  near  the  place  where  the 
town  now  stands,  and  that  Hith  in  the  old  Saxon  tongue  did  signify 
"a  wharf,  haven,  or  landing-place;"  I  hare  some  reason  to  helieve, 
that  the  town  took  this  name  from  the  wharf  or  ferry  belonging  at  that 
time  to  some  neighbouring  nunnery,  or  to  some  private  maidens  dwel- 
ling thereabout,  who  then  received  the  profits  of  it.  Just  so,  Queen- 
Hithe  in  London  took  that  appellation,  because  the  profits  of  that 
wharf  were  anciently  accompt^d  for  to  the  queens  of  England;  and 
Maiden-Bradly  in  Wiltshire  was  so  denominated  because  belonging 
to  one  of  the  inheretrices  of  Manasses' Basset,  a  most  noble  personage 
in  his  time,  who  founded  a  house  here  for  maiden  lepers. 

Fuller. — As  for  Lichfield,  thereof  hereafter.  But  whether  it 
be  Maiden-head,  or  Maiden-hith,  is  not  a  straw  matter  to  me,  who 
cited  the  words  out  of  Camden^s  Latin  Britannia ;  which  is  more 
properly  Camden^  than  the  English  translation  thereof. 

Dr.  Heylix. — But,  to  return  again  to  Leitchfield:  It  must  needs 
seem  as  strange  to  my  judicious  reader,  that  one  part  of  it  should  be 
borrowed  from  the  Britons,  and  the  other  from  the  Saxons;  as  it 
seems  strange  unto  our  author,  and  that  justly  too,  that  Cem  in  Dor- 
setshire should  anciently  be  called  Cernely  from  the  Latin  word  CernOy 
which  signifies  "  to  see,"  and  the  Hebrew  word  £/,  signifying  "  God." 
(Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  99.) 

FuLtER. — Nothing  more  usual  than  for  the  same  word  to  bear 
parity  par  pale^ — two  languages.  But  such  mixtures  only  are  made 
in  such  places  where  those  two  languages  have  entered  common 
together. 

And  this  is  the  reason  that  disapproveth  the  probability  of 
Cern-el,  because  Hebrew  and  Latin  never  incorporated  together, — 
Greek,  as  I  may  say,  being  interposed  betwixt  them. 

But  such  conjunctions  of  two  languages  which,  in  some  sort, 
indented  one  another,  are  frequent  and  familiar. 

Our  author  lately  presented  us  with  two,  half-Greek,  half-Latin, 
archi'flamem  ^vA  proto-flamens. 

He  also  just  now  mentioned  a  word  half-French,  half-Saxon, 
Camps-field. 

Many  towns'  names  in  England  are  half-Saxon,  half-British; 
Up-Atouy  Neather-Avon^  two  villages  in  Wiltshire ;  Awn  being 
"  a  river  "^  in  the  British  tongue. 

To  put  all  out  of  doubt,  the  reader  may  rely  on  the  judgment  of 
this  my  worthy  friend,  whose  letter  I  have  here  caused  to  be  inserted : 
"  Mia.  Fuller, 

"  As  touching  the  etymology  of  the  city  of  Lichfield,  I  can 
give  you  no  satisfactory  accompt;  being  not  well  skilled  in  the 
Saxon  tongue.     But  if  Mr.  John  Ross  hath  ground  for  his  Campu9 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


ANIMADVBRSIONS  ON  THB  CHURCH-HISTOEY,  BOOK  I.      QSl 

Cadatenm^  I  conceiye  he  deduced  it  from  the  British  tongue  and 
Saxon.  For  in  oiir  British  language,  Llaith  signifies  *  death/  as  may 
be  seen  in  seveial  ancient  Kitish  authors,  as  Taliesin  and  others. 
Lleithfa  may  well  bear  •  a  place  of  slaughter/  as  well  as  Uadd/a  ; 
the  word  Uculd  in  the  British  is  the  same  with  occidere  in  the  Latin. 
Ma  and  wow,  denotes  a  place :  and  Ma  being  joined  with  tteith  or 
Uaddy  the  m,  by  the  rules  of  the  British  language,  turns  into  f,  as 
Uadd/a,  Ueithfa^  Uaddfaes.  Maea  is  the  ordinary  name  for  *  a  field* 
in  our  language ;  and  so  the  old  Saxons,  which  were  not  ignorant 
of  our  language,  might  well  make  use  of  their  own  word  field  and 
join  it  with  the  British  UeWi:  which,  in  process  and  corruption 
of  time,  came  to  be  Litchfield.  You  must  note,  that  when  the 
Saxons  met  with  our  11,  they  wrote  and  pronounced  it  always  as  one 
single  1,*^ 

25,  86.  Dr.  Heylin.— -^  I  fear  that  learned  pen  hath  gone  too  far, 
who  makes  him  founder  of  a  bishopric  at  York,  and  styleth  him  ^  an 
emperor  surpassing  in  all  virtue  and  Christian  piety.'"  (Ch.  Hist.  yoI.  i. 
p.  36.)  The  learned  pen  here  spoken  of  is  that  of  judicious  Camden, 
whose  character  of  Constantios  Chlorus  our  author  in  this  place  will 
not  let  pass  ^thout  some  censure.  That  he  did  found  (or  rather 
re-found)  a  bishopric  in  the  city  of  York,  I  am  confident  Camden  had 
not  said  without  rery  good  grounds ;  though  on  what  grounds  he  said 
it,  I  am  yet  to  seek.  A  bishopric  and  a  bishop  of  York  we  find  on 
good  record  within  few  years  after ;  Eborius  the  bishop  of  that  city 
subscribing  to  the  council  of  Aries  in  the  time  of  Constantine,  the  son 
and  next  successor  of  Constantius  Chlorus.  And  that  he  was  a  prince 
of  surpassing  yirtue,  is  generally  agreed  upon  by  all  historians,  both 
Pagans  and  Christians.  The  question  then  will  be  only  this,  Whether 
he  did  surpass  also  in  Christian  piety?  which  our  author  will  not 
otherwise  grant,  but  by  our  Saviour's  argument  only,  concluding  those 
to  be  on  our  part  who  are  not  against  us ;  ^'  Constantius  doing  no 
other  good  unto  Christianity,  but  that  he  did  not  do  it  harm."  A  cen- 
sure not  agreeable  to  so  good  an  emperor,  who,  though  he  were  no 
"  thorough-paced  Christian,"  yet  did  he  both  favour  their  religion,  and 
protect  their  persons,  as  Eusebius  testifies  De  Vitd  Constantini,  Ub.  i 
cap*  12.  ^  And  not  so  only,  but,  as  our  author  himself  confesseth,  he 
both  "  permitted  and  preserved  them  who  would  rebuild  the  decayed 
Christian  churches."  If  to  preserve  the  persons  of  Christians  in  the 
exercise  of  their  religion,  to  have  them  near  unto  him  in  places  of 
greatest  trust  and  eminence,  to  suffer  them  to  rebuild  their  churches, 
and  defend  them  in  it,  be  not  "  the  doing  of  some  good  unto  Christi- 
anity,** more  than  "  the  doing  it  no  harm,"  let  our  author  carry  it,  and 

Camden  bear  the  blame  of  his  needless  courtship. 
Fuller. — If  at  the  end  of  this  long  note,  the  Animadvertor  at 

last  had  demonstrated  that  Constantius  Chlorus  was  "  a  thorough- 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


3g2  AFPKAL  OF  UtlUBMD  IHlTOCSlfCB.  PART  I. 

|Mieed  Chmiiaii,**  ihe  reader  ind  I  mjsdf  would  jiot  liaye  gmdged 
onr  atteDtkm  auto  it. 

Bat  what  is  tlie  total  sinii  of  what  lie  saitli  ?  It  amomits  to  jost 
nothing,  onl  j  to  ahow  that  (which  I  confessed)  he  did  some  good 
(besides  no  hart)  to  Chnstianitj.  What  is  this  to  prove  the  voids 
of  leamed  (bat hcie mistaken)  Mr.  Camden ?  "An emperor sur- 
passing  in  all  Tirtaes  and  Christian  piety.^ 

The  Animadyertor  should  fiist  have  pioyed  that  this  Constantias 
had  pasted  into  Christianity  before  he  was  mrpcusing  therein;  a 
thing  which  he  and  all  his  friends  are  never  able  to  evidence  by  anj 
authentic  author. 

In  a  word;  as  Chlarus  or  "  yellow''  (so  his  name  in  Greek)  isa 
middle  colour  betwixt  white  and  black,  below  the  former  and  above 
the  latter  in  brightness ;  so  this  emperor  (well  answering  his  name) 
was  indeed  much  better  than  most  Pagans,  and  yet  far  short  (so  far 
as  by  any  human  author  can  be  collected)  of  a  true  Christian. 

27.  Db.  Hetlin— But  this  is  not  ihe  first  time,  in  which  our 
author  hath  clashed  with  Camden,  and  I  see  it  will  not  be  the  last,  by 
that  which  followeth.  For,  speaking  on  the  by,  how  wolves  first 
entered  into  England,  considering  that  ^'  merchants  would  not  bnng 
them,  and  that  they  could  not  swim  over  themselves,"  he  adds  these 
words :  namely,  "  which  hath  prevailed  so  far  with  some,  as  to  con- 
ceive this,  now  an  island,  originally  annexed  to  the  continent"  (Ch* 
Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  43.)  It  seems,  that  though  some  so  conceive  it,  jet  our 
author  doth  not.  And  yet  he  cannot  choose  but  know  that  those 
whom  he  doth  pass  so  slightly  over  by  the  name  of  "  some,"  (as  j* 
not  worthy  to  be  notified  by  their  proper  names,)  are  the  most  emi- 
nent and  renowned  antiquaries  of  these  latter  times.  Amongst  which 
if  I  reckon  Camden  for  one,  and  a  chief  one  too,  I  should  but  do  him 
right,  and  not  wrong  the  rest ;  whose  arguments  to  prove  the  point, 
he  that  lists  to  see  may  find  them  at  large  laid  down  in  his  description 
of  Kent ;  which  when  our  author  can  confute,  (as  I  doubt  he  cannot,) 
he  may  then  slight  it  over  a  thing  "  conceived,"  and  conceived  onlj  hy 
"  some  "  men  not  worth  the  naming.  Till*  then,  I  shall  behold  it  9S 
a  matter  not  conceived  but  proved,  and  so  must  he. 

Fuller. — "  It  seems :"  Mtdta  videntur  quw  non  mnt.  I  *^ 
ashamed  to  return  an  answer  to  this  needless  and  impertinent 
note.  St.  Jerome  honoured  not  Cicero  more  than  I  reverence  Mr* 
Camden. 

Dn.  Hbylin.»-I  should  here  end  this  chapter  and  this  book  together, 
hut  that  I  find  a  trifling  error  not  worth  our  notice,  but  that  I  woulo 
set  all  things  right  as  they  come  before  me ;  which  is  the  placing  of  the 
emperor  Constantine  in  the  catalogue  of  those  who  conmionly  P^^ 
under  the  name  of  the  nine  Worthies :  and  this,  saith  he-* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIlfADVSSSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HI8TORT,  BOOK  I.       383 

FutLER.— Not  SO.  He  should  have  ended  this  chapter  and 
book  before,  and  not  have  inserted  his  last  impertinent  note.  Num 
aquila  eapii  muscas  f 

28.  Db.  Heylin. — ^^  And  this,"  saith  he,  '^is  more  than  comes  to  the 
proportion  of  Britain,  that,  amongst  but  nine  in  the  whole  wocld,  two 
should  prore  natives  of  this  island9-*Constantine  and  Arthur."  (Ch. 
Hist.  Tol.  i.  p.  GQ.)  That  Arthur  goes  for  one  of  the  Worthies,  I  shall 
easilj  grant ;  and  I  shall  grant  too,  that  in  the  opinion  of  some  writers 
this  island  gave  birth  unto  another  of  them,  namely,  Guj  of  Warwick. 
"  His  knight  sir  Guy,  one  of  the  nine,  we  touch  but  by  the  way,"  saith 
Warner  in  his  ^  Albion's  England." 

FuLLKB. — Perchance,  Guy  of  Warwick  may  be  made  one  of 
the  nine  English  worthies.  .  But  I  believe  none  ever  made  him  one 
of  the  nine  general  worthies ;  [he  being]  little  known  beyond  the 
seas,  no  general,  (not  to  say  prince,)  as  the  rest  of  his  form-fellows, 
and  fiuned  only  for  his  personal  performances. 

Dr.  Heyi<in.<— But  in  the  common  estimate  they  are  reckoned  thus ; 
that  is  to  say,  thbee  Jews,  1 .  Joshua,  2.  David,  3.  Judas  Maccabeus : 
THREE  Gentiles,  4.  Hector  of  Troy,  5.  Alexander  the  Great,  and,  6. 
Julius  Cssar :  thbee  Christians,  7-  Arthur  of  Britain,  8.  Charle- 
maine  of  France,  and,  9.  Godfrey  of  Bouillon.  But  I  condemn  myself 
for  mingling  this  poor  piece  of  errantry  with  such  serious  matters, 
though  the  necessity  of  following  my  leader  as  he  goeth  may  excuse 
me  in  it 

Fuller. — The  words  of  the  Animadvertor  in  common  estimate 
intimate,  that  they  are  not  constantly  so  accounted.  The  seven 
wise  men  of  Greece  are  variously  reckoned  up,  as  several  authors 
fancied  them.  So  also  are  the  nine  worthies ;  and  if  worth  makes 
a  worthy,  Constantino  deserved  a  place  amongst  them,  being  in 
time  before  any,  in  valour  behind  none,  of  the  three  Christians. 
Yea,  as  Sappho  is  adjected  by  some  to  the  nine  Muses,  and  made  a 
tenth  \*  so  let  there  be  ten  worthies,  rather  than  Constantine  should 
be  excluded.  But  enough  hereof,  poets  and  painters  being  the 
most  staple  authors  in  this  point. 

*  Le^M  PieriU  Sappho  toror  addUm  i/ftft#.— AusOKiut. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


PART   II. 


CONTAINING 


Vuller's     answer     to     heylin's     animadversions    ok 

BOOKS    II. X.    or    THE    CHURCH-HISTORY    OF    BRITAIN, 

BOOK  II. 

Of  ike  Convemon  of  the  Saxons^  and  that  tthich  followed  theretipoii 
till  the  Norman  Conquest.  i 

29.  Dr.  Heylin. — In  order  to  the  conversion  of  the  SaxoBS,  our 
author  begins  (as  he  had  done  before  in  that  of  the  Britons)  with  the 
unhappy  condition  of  that  people  in  the  state  of  Gentilism* 

Fuller. — Here  is  an  intimation  as  if  I  had  mistook  my  epochs 
in  my  "Church-History''  of  Britons  or  Saxons,  or  both;  begin- 
ning them  too  soon  or  too  late.  I  avouch  it  done  in  due  time :  and 
so  pass  from  the  Animadvertor's  snarling  to  his  biting. 

Dr.  Heylin. — In  the  description  whereof,  he  omitteth  that  which 
was  indeed  their  greatest  unhappiness ;  that  is  to  say,  their  barbarous 
and  inhuman  sacrifices  of  men  and  women  unto  two  of  their  idols. 
For  Camden  telleth  us  of  their  god  called  Wooden,  that  "  they  used  to 
procure  his  favour  by  sacrificing  unto  him  men  alive."  *  And  I  have 
read  in  Verstegan,  (if  my  memory  fiail  not,)  a  man  inferior  to  none  in 
the  antiquities  of  this  nation,  that,  at  their  return  from  any  conquest, 
they  used  to  sacrifice  the  noblest  of  their  captives  to  their  idol  Thur. 
In  this  not  much  inferior  to  the  Palestinians,  in  their  sacrifices  to 
Moloch;  or  to  the  Carthaginians,  iit-the  like  abominable  sacrifices 
to  Saturn ;  or  to  the  Scythians,  in  the  like  to  Diana  Taurica ;  or,  finally, 
to  the  Gauls,  in  theirs  to  Haesus  and  Teutates,  their  own  national 
deities.t  But,  not  to  lay  at  our  author's  charge  these  small  sins  ot 
omission,  we  must  next  see  whether  he  be  not  guilty  of  some  sin 
of  commission  also. 

Fuller.— See  here  the  signal  charity  of  the  Animadvertor . 
After  he  had  laid  the  chaise  as  heavy  as  he  could,  (and  heavier 
than  he  should,)  he  candidly  comes  off, — he  will  not  lay  to  my 
charge  such  "  small  faults  of  omission  !  '^ 

I  was  not  bound  to  particularize  in  all  the  Saxon  prodigious 
impieties,  all  being  included   in   that   my  general   expression,-- 

•  Camden  in  BrUannid,  fol.  136.  f  Lactantius,  Kb.  xvi.  cap.  21. 


Digiti 


zed  by  Google 


AJVIMADVERSIONS  ON  THfi  CHURCH- HI6TO&Y,  BOOK  II.      385 

"abominable"  (the  proper  scripture-word  in  this  case)    "in  the 
rites  and  ceremonies  of  their  adoration."  ,(Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  81.) 

30.  Dr.  Heylin — For,  making  a  genecal  muster  of  the  Saxon 
gods,  and  showing  how  thej  were  disposed  of  in  relation  to  the  dajs  of 
the  week,  he  concludes  it  thus :  "And  thus  we  see  the  whole  week 
besoattered  with  Saxon  idols,  whose  Pagan  gods  were  the  ^od&thecB 
of  the  days,  and  gaye  them  their  names."  (Ch.  Hist.  Yol..i.  p.  82«) 
Not  the  whole  week,  though  the  greatest  part  thereof,  was  thus  besoat- 
tered ;  Sunday  and  Monday  being  so  called  in  reference  to  the  sun 
and  moon,  or  else  in  correspondence  to  the  names  of  Dies  Soils  and 
Dies  LuncPj  which  they  found  given  by  the  Romans  at  their  entrance 
here.  For  either  the  sun  and  moon  were  worshipped. by  the  ancient 
Saxons,  and  then  might  think  themselves  neglected  in  "having  no 
place  assigned  them  amongst  the  rest;  or  else  the  Saxon  pagan  gods 
were  not  the  godfathers  to  all  the  days  of -^e  week,  as  our  author 
telleth  us. 

Fuller. — It  is  harsh,  that!  must  be  indicted  to  justify  every 
inetaphoricdi  expression;  but  know,  that  the  word  " bescattered ^ 
properly  importeth  some  empty  intervals,  or  naked  distances,  be- 
twixt the  things  scattered ;  which  otherwise  would  be  covered  all 
over,  and  not  be  scattered.  If  therefore  two  days  in  the  seven  have 
escaped  nomination  from  Saxon  idols,  the  week  notwithstanding^ 
may  be  said  "  bescattered '"  by  them. 

31.  Dr.  HEYLiN.'—rAs  mnch  he  seems  to  be  mist-aken  in  their  god 
called  Woden;  of  whom  thus  he  telleth  us:  "  Woden,  that  is,  wood^ 
fierce  J  or  furious^  giving  the  denomination  to  Wednesday,  or  Wodens- 
day.  Armed  aip-a-piey  with  military  coronet  on  his  head,  he  was. the 
god  of  battle,  by  whose  aid  and  furtherance  they  hoped  to  obt£n  vic- 
tory;.  correspondent  to  Mars."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  82.)  But  Camden 
sings  another  song,  telling  us  that  Wooden  was  not  worshipped  for 
Mars,  but  Mercury.  "  Above  all  other  gods,^  saith  he,  *'  they  wor- 
shipped'Mercury,  whom  they  called  Wooden ;  whose  favour  they  pro- 
cured by  sacrificing  unto  him  men  alive;  and  to  him  they  consecrated 
the  fourth  day  of  the  week ;  whereupon  we  call  it  at  this  day  Wednes- 
day." *  Thus  also,  in  another  place :  "  Wansdike,  in  ?the  Saxon 
tongue  called  Woodensdikc^  that  is  to  say,  'the  ditch.of  Wooden  or 
Mercury,'  and,  as  it  should  seem,  of  Woden,  that  false-imagined  god 
and  father  of  the  English  Saxons."  t  And  herein  I  shall  rather  sub- 
scribe to  Camden's,  than  our  author's.  Judgment.  For,  certainly,  had 
the  Saxons  worshipped  Wooden  as  "  the  god  of  battle,  or  correspondent 
to  Mars,'*  they  would  have  given  him  the  third  day  of  the  week,  or 
the  day  of  Mars,  and  not  the  fourth  day  of  the  week,  or  the  day  of 
Mercury ;  as  they  gave  Sunday  and  Monday  unto  Sol  and  Luna,  and 
Thursday  unto  Thur,  whom  they  worshipped  in  the  place  of  Jupite^, 

•  In  Britannia,  fol.  136.  t  Idem,  in  Wiltshire,  toL  241. 

Digitized  by  CjOOQ IC 


886  APPEAL  OP  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

ascribing  anto  him  (as  the  Greeks  and  Romans  did  to  Jupiter)  the 
power  of  bearing  rule  in  the  air,  goreming  thunder,  lightnings,  winds, 
showers,  fair  weather,  &c.,  as  Adam  Bremensis,  a  good  writer,  doth 
inform  us  of  them.  And  though  it  maj  be  true,  which  our  author 
telleth  us,  that  "  by  his  aid  and  furtherance  they  hoped  to  obtain^ic- 
tory,"  yet  this  entideth  him  not  to  the  place  of  Man ;  as  many  rictories 
being  gotten  by  wit  and  stratagem,  (the  known  arts  of  Mercory,)  as  by 
strength  and  yalour. 

Puller. — In. describing  the  Saxon  idolatries  I  followed  Verste- 
gan,  as  the  best  in  this  kind,  as  who  (datd  operA)  had  written  on 
that  subject,  and  who  lately  by  the  Animadvertor  was  styled,  (and 
that  very  deservedly,)  "  a  man  inferior  to  none  in  the  antiquities  of 
this  nation.''  * 

However,  finding  a  difference  betwixt  him  and  Mr.  Camden  in 
this  particular,  I  fairly  entered  this  plain  note  in  the  margin  of  my 
book ;  (vol.  i.  p.  82;)  "  So  Verstegan,  page  72,  but  Camdek, 
Brit,  page  135,  makes  him  to  be  Mercury."*' 

Now  either  the  Animadvertor  did  not,  or  did,  take  notice  of  this 
marginal  note.  If  he  did  not^  being  there  tendered  so  conspicuously 
to  the  reader,  it  is  high  time  for  him  to  leave  off  writing  of  books, 
and  turn  his  pen  into  prayers ;  otherwise,  such  omissions  by  tbose 
who  read  unto  him  will,  every  day,  more  add  more  inevitably  betray 
him  to,  and  involve  him  in,  more  inconveniences. 

If  he  did  take  notice  of  this  note^  (which  is  most  probable,  always 
consulting  my  margin,  when  making  for  his  advantage,)  he  dis- 
covered much  "superfluity"  (not  to  say  of  "naughtiness,"  James 
i.  21)  actum  agere^  that  what  I  had  done  before  he  must  do  again ; 
and  also  find  fault  with  me,  who  had  done  it  before,  in  this  his 
unnecessary  Animadversion. 

I  will  only  add,  that  "  the  fierce  and  furious"  aspect  of  Woden, 
the  evidence  of  his  wild  and  wood  nature,  (whence  he  had  his 
name,)  better  countenanceth  his  correspondency  with  MarSj  than 
Mercury;  the  latter  being  concerned  to  carry  a  more  meek  and 
mild  countenance,  as  who,  being  of  a  tamer  kind,  and  acting  all  by 
qraft  and  cunning,  did  not  fright,  but  flatter,  deluded  people  into 
his  plausible  designs. 

32—35.  Dr.  Hetlin.— But  from  our  author's  failures  in  recounting 
the  superstitions  of  our  Saxon  ancestors,  let  ui^  next  see  how  he 
behaves  himself  in  laying  down  the  story  of  their  conversion.  I" 
which,  though  he  ascribe  something  unto  Austin  the  monk,  yet  he  wiW 
by  no  means  allow  him  to  be  their  apostle :  "  The  papists,"  saith  he, 
"  commonly  call  Augustine  the  English  apostle^  how  properly  we  shall 
see  hereafter."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  81.)     And  after,  *^  The  papists  brag 

•  In  the  Iwt  page.    (384.) 

Digitized  by  CjOOQ IC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THB  CHUACH-HISTORY,  BOOK  II.      387 

that  he  was  the  apoiile  of  ike  English^  (Idetn^  p.  101.)  In  these 
few  words  there  are  two  things  to  he  considered :  First,  whether  he 
is  called  ^^the  apostle  of  the  English"  by  the  papists  only;  and, 
Secondly,  whether  he  were  not  so  both  in  fact  and  title. 

1.  Not  called  so  6y  the  papists  onlif^  I  am  sure  of  that;  but  called 
so  commonly  by  as  good  protestants  as  our  author  himself.  Thus 
Camden,  a  right  English  protestant :  **  After  this,  Augustine,  whom 
commonly  they  call  ike  apostle  of  the  EngUskmen^  being  sent  hither 
by  Gregory  the  Great,  baring  abolished  these  monstrous  abominations 
of  heathenish  impiety,  with  most  happy  success,  planting  Christ  in 
their  hearts,  conrerted  them  to  the  Christian  faith."  *  Nor  doth  he 
speak  this  only  in  the  Yoice  of  the  common  people,  but  in  another  place 
more  plainly,  as  his  own  opinion :  ''  A  place  there  is  about  this  shire 
called  Austin's  oak,  at  whidi  Augustine,  the  apostle  of  the  Englishmen, 
and  the  bishops  of  Britain,  met,"  &c.t  Dr.  Philemon  Holland  of 
Coventry,  a  good  protestant  also,  making  an  index  unto  Camden^ 
speaks  tiie  self-same  language :  ^  Augustine  the  apostle  of  the  English ;" 
which  is  short,  but  full.  Gkibriel  Richardson,  of  Brazen-nose,  an 
honest  protestant,  in  his  laborious  piece  called  ''  the  State  of  Europe," 
telleth  us  of  Canterbury,  '^  that  the  archbishop's  see  was  founded 
by  king  Ethelbert  in  the  person  of  St.  Austin  the  apostle  of  the 
English."  X  More  of  this  kind  might  be  produced,  were  it  not  given 
us  for  a  rule  in  the  holy  scripture.  Ex  ore  duorum  teslium  vel  trium^ 
"  that  two  or  three  witnesses  were  sufficient  to  confirm  a  truth." 

2.  The  next  thing  here  to  be  considered  is,  whether  Austin  were 
not  the  apostle  of  the  English  both  in  fact  and  title.  In  order  where- 
unto,  we  must  first  take  notice,  that  the  word,  being  merely  Greek, 
doth  signify,  in  its  natural  and  original  sense,  '^  a  messenger,  a  legate, 
an  ambassador,"  from  whom-  to  whom-soever  sent;  and  though 
appropriated  to  tweive  as  by  way  of  excdlence,  yet  not  improperly 
communicated  unto  others  in  succeeding  times,  with  reference  to  the 
nations  whom  they  had  converted.  So  Boniface,  an  Englishman, 
the  first  archbishop  of  Mentz,  is  called  by  Dr.  Holland,  as  by  many 
others,  "  the  apostle  of  Germany;"  Palladius,  styled  by  Camden,  "  the 
apostle  of  the  Scottish  nation ;"§  and  the  Irish  would  not  think 
themselves  to  be  faMy  dealt  with,  if  their  St.  Patrick  should  not  be 
honoured  with  that  title  also.  In  this  sense,  Austin  may  be  called, 
and  that  not  improperly,  "  the  apostle  of  the  English  nation ;"  though 
"  a  derivative  apostle,  an  apostle  "  (as  our  author  calls  him  in  the  way 
of  scorn,  page  101)  "at  the  second  hand,"  though  others  propajated 
the  gospel  farther  than  he  lived  to  do.  It  was  enough  to  entitle  him 
to  this  apostleship,  that  he  first  publicly  preached  the  gospel,  and 
brought  the  glad  tidings  of  salvation,  amongst  the  English ;  though  he 
neither  converted  all  the  nation,  nor  travelled  into  all  parts  of  the  land 
to  attempt  the  same.     Neither  St.  Paul  could  be  entitled  "  the  apostle 

*  Camden's  Britannia,  fol.  136.  t  Idem  in  Worcestershire,  fol.  578. 

t  Richardson's  "State  of  Europe,"  lib.  iii.  t  Camden  in  Scodand,  tbl.  45, 

2    C    2  Digitized  by  L^OOgle 


338  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

of  the  GentUes,"  St  Thomas  of  the  Indians,  nor  St.  Matthew  of  the 
Ethiopians,  if  it-were  necessarily  requived  to  their  apostleships,  that 
all  the  nations  of  the  Indians  must  he  converted  hy  the  one,  or  the 
Tast  countries  of  the  Ethiopians  must  be  converted  by  the  other;  oc, 
finaHj,'^if  St.^Pau],  to  siiveiheni  a  labour,  must  have  reduced  all  the 
Gentiles  to  the  faith  of  Christ,  ^nd  this  the  ambassadors  for  the  king 
of  England  at  the  Council  of  Basil  understood  right  well,  when  they 
contended  for  precedency  with  those  of  Castile.  For  when  the 
OastiKans  had  objected,  'that  although  Joseph  of  Arimathea  had 
preached  in  England,  it  was  but  in  a  comer  thereof,  the  grand  body  of 
Britain  remidning  pagan  many  hundred  years  after ;  the  English  ambas- 
sadors wisely  answered,  that  the  allegation  v^ras  impertinent  to  the 
present  purpose,  it  being  net  the  universality,  but  the  ^rtt  prtachk^ 
of 'the  Christian  faith  -which  gained  the  name  of  an  apostle;  there 
being  bo  disciple  (as  they  truly  «rged  it)  that  ever  converted  a  king- 
dom totally  and  entirely  to  Christianity :  for  ^hich  consult  our  veiy 
:author.  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  lib.  4,  pp.  502-.^7.) 

And  yet  the  pains  in  preaching  of  Austin  were  not  so  limited  and 
Testrsdned  to  one  kingdom  only,  but  that  he  travelled  into  most  parts 
6f  the  Saxon  Heptarchy,  preaching  the  gospel  in  all  places  to  which 
the  Spirit  did  conduct  him,  or  his  business  lead  him.  Our  author 
grants  him  to  have  converted  the  kingdora^of  Kent;  4S^\x.  Hist.  YoLi. 
p.  86 ;)  and  to  have  taken  care  for  planting  the  gospel  in  the  kingdom 
of  the  East-Saxons,  and  for  that  end  ordaining  Mellitus  the  first  bishop 
Of  London.  {Idem,  p.  99.)  From  hence  he  carries  him  to  a  conference 
with  riie  British  bishops  in- the  country  of  the  Wiccians,  (now  Worces- 
tershire;) then  part  of  the  kingdom  of  Mercia;  (./rfc«,  p.  884-)  from 
thence  to  Richmondshire  in  the  kingdom  of  Northum^rland,  where 
he  is  said  to  have  baptized  above  ten  thousand  in  one  day;  (Jde^t 
p.  97;)  and,  finally,  to  Cem  in  Dorsetshire,  part  of  the  kingdom  of  the 
West^  Saxons,  where  he  destroyed  the  idol  of  Heale,  or  iEflSulapi^* 
By  w^ich  we  see,  that  he  visited  no  fewer  than  five  of  the  seven  king- 
doms m  the  Saxon  Heptarchy,  not  only  doing*  in  each  of  them  that 
particular* work  which  he  went  about,  but  preaching  in  all  fit  places  as 
he  passed  along.  Jind  this,  considered  as  it  ought,  with  reference  to 
the  distance  of  those  several  places  to  which  our  very  author  brings 
him,  gives  'him  just  title-to  that  honour  which  lOur  author  would  -so 
willingly  deprive  him  of,  when,  telling  us  how  the  pa^sts  called  him 
"  the  Engli^  apostle,"  he  adds  these  words,  "how  properly  (so. called) 
we  shall  see  hereafter." 

Fuller. — tThe  Aniinadvertor  engageth  deeper  in  this  contro- 
versy than  in  my  mind  it  deserveth.     To  state  the  difference  trulyj 
"  whether  Augustine  properly  is  called  the  apostle  of  the  Englistj 
we  must  explain  two  terms,  apostle  and  English. 

1.  Waving  the  general  notation  of  "  apostle ''for  no  more  than 
♦'  a  messenger  C  in  the  New  Testament  it  importeth  a  person  im- 
mediately sent  by  Christ,  to  preach  people  into  salvation.    It  ^^ 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THB  CHORCH-HISTORT,  BOOK  11.      399 

eesentUl  te  their  constitution,,  either  to  have  accompanied  Christ  in 
the  flesh,  a  qualification  required  hf  St.  Peter  in*  such  elects  who 
should  supply  the  vacancy  oF  Judas;  ^ctsi.  21;)  or,  at  the 
least,  that  they  should  see  Christ  incarnate,  either  humbled  or  glorir 
fied  ;  the  latter  &your  being  peculiarly  afforded  to  St.Pauh:  ^'  Am 
I  not  an  apostk  ?  am  I  not  fiee?  have  £  not  seeik  Jesus  Christ  ouc 
Lord?^  ^  Cor.  i]c  1.)  These  I  may  call  ^^  primitive  apostles  V^ 
and  none  will  entitle  Augvistine  the  monk  to  be  one  of  their 
order.  A  second  sort  I  call  "  derivative  apostlea^'  a  term,  which 
though  the  Animadvertor  saith  is  used  by  me  in  the  way  of  scorn, 
I  protest  it  in  sober  seriousness,  God  hath  not  endowed  me  to  make 
a  more  proper  expression,  signifying  such  as  mediately,  and  (as  I 
say)'  ^*  at  the  second  hand,^  are  sent  by  some  eminent  servants  of 
God  to  convert  Pagans  to  Christianity. 

2.  **  English  ■"  may  be  taken  in  a  threefold  sense  l — 
First.  For  all  the  nation ;  (an  indefinite,  tantamounting  to  an 
universal ;  J  and  this  is  the  most  proper  sense  of  the  word. 

Secondly.  For  the  greater  part  of  the  nation,  which  in  common 
discourse  denominates  the  whole. 

Thirdly.  For  some  part  of  the  nation,  which  may  be  made  good 
by  a  synecdoche,  especially  justified  when  it  is  a  chief  and.  first 
(though  least)  part  thereof,  which,  xar  i^o^riVy  or  per  emineutiam^ 
taketh  the  name  of  the  whole. 

My  clear  sense  is^.  Augustine  the  monk  may  be  called  "a 
derivative  apostle  of  the  English  ^  in  the  last  acceptation  of  the 
word;  and  so  Mr.  Camden,  Mr.  Richardson,  Mr.  Holland,  and  I 
doubt  not  but  many  more,  have  and  may  entitle  hinu 

The  Animadvertor  measureth  the  progress  of  Augustine  with  toa 
extensive  dimensions,  making  him  a  greater  English  traveller  than 
ever  he  was.  Kent  was,  generally,,  the  sphere  he  moved  in;  and. 
from  tlience  he  was  itinerant  to  Ceme  in  Dorsetshire,  the  boundary 
of  his  western  travel ;  no  personal  achievements  by  him  north  of 
tlie  Thames,,  seeing  that  grave  baptization  (if  in  Yorkshire)  was 
surely  done  by  Paulinus.  As  for  the  interview  and  conference 
betwixt  him  and  the  British  bishops  in  Worcestershire,  (though 
some  probably  might  be  converted  in.  his  passage  thither,  and  return 
thence,)^  no  great  advantage,,  but  detriment,  to  Christianity  was 
thereby  occasioned^  those  parts  generally  remaining  in  Paganism. 

And  here  I  will  tender  the  reader  another  distinction  of  apostles, 
8ubmitting.it  to  his  judgment:  They  were  either  of  God.  alone, 
man- alone,  God  and  man  together. 

First.  Of  God  alone ;  as  St.  Paul,  (and  the  other  twelve,)  ''  an 
apostle  not  of  man,  neither  by  man,  but  by  Jesus  Christ  and  GiJtd. 
the  Father,  who  raised  him  from  the  dead,""  Gal.  i.  1.. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


390  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

Secondly.  Of  man  alone;  being  such  as  the  false  apostles  amongst 
the  Corinthians,  and  elsewhere,  whose  commission  was  made  and 
drawn  up  by  themselves,  sealed  and  attested  by  some  of  their 
fectious  admirers. 

Thirdly.  Of  God  and  man ;  and  such  an  apostle  was  Augustine, 
sent  (as  I  may  say)  by  God  and  Gregory  to  the  English  nation. 
But  let  him  not  engross  the  name  to  himself,  but  admit  also 
•as  his  partners  therein,  1.  Mellitus,  2,  Paulinus,  and  Aidan, 
3.  Felix,  4.  Birinus,  5.  Chad,  6.  Wilfrid, — ^apostles  also,  because 
sent  to,  and  convertors  of,  1.  The  East  Saxons,  2.  Northumbrians, 
3.  East  Angles,  4.  West,  5.  Mercians,  6.  South  Saxons. 

36.  Dr.  Heylin. — I  hare  spent  more  time  than  I  intended  in 
defence  of  this  title,  and  therefore  think  it  seasonable  to  proceed 
from  the  person  to  his  acts :  of  which  the  first  we  meet  with  is,  the 
fixing  of  the  archi-episcopal  see  at  Canterbury ;  for  which  our  author, 
amongst  many  other  reasons,  gives  us  this  for  one;  namely,  that 
"  London,  by  reason  of  the  receipt  thereof,  was  likely  to  prove  the 
residing-place  for  the  English  monarch ;  and  it  was  probable  that  the 
archi-episcopal  dignity  would  there  be  eclipsed,  and  outshined  by  the 
regal  diadem."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  87.)  But  here  I  must  needs  ask 
our  author,  Whether  he  thinks,  that  this  was  really  one  of  those  many 
motives  which  occasioned  Austin  to  resolve  of  Canterbury  for  his  seat  of 
residence  ?  If,  "  Yea,"  then  must  our  author  grant  him  to  be  endued 
with  the  spirit  of  prophecy,  which  I  think  he  will  not ;  if,  "  Not,"  then 
a  contingency  so  remote  could  not  be  taken  by  hina  into  consideration, 
as  indeed  it  was  not.  For,  First,  London,  at  that  time,  was  the  chief 
city  of  the  kingdom  of  East-sex,  one  of  the  weakest  of  the  seven,  and 
so  not  likely  to  prevail  over  oR  the  rest.  Secondly.  If  any  of  the 
greater  kingdoms  of  Mercia,  West-sex,  or  Northumberland,  should  in 
fine  prevail,  it  was  not  probable  that  the  conquerors  would  remove  the 
seat-royal  from  their  own  dominions  into  any  of  the  conquered  coun- 
tries. And,  Thirdly,  though  the  kings  of  the  West  Saxons,  who 
prevailed  at  last,  and  became  monarchs  of  the  whole,  settled  the  royal 
seat  in  London,  yet  was  it  not  till  Winchester^  their  own  regal  city, 
was  destroyed  by  fire,  and  made  unable  to  receive  them. 

Fuller.*— Other  reasons  are  alleged  by  me,  why  Austin  chose 
Canterbury  rather  than  London  for  his  archi-episcopal  see.  These 
eLrguments  junota  jii^anty  and  will  hold  in  the  sheaf,  though  a  single 
arrow  should  be  broken ;  I  mean,  though  this  one  reason  (alleged 
by  me)  were  disproved. 

Austin  needed  no  prophetical  inspiration,  whilst  prudential  previ- 
sion could  sufficiently  suggest  unto  him,  that  if  ever  the  Saxon 
Heptarchy  terminated  (which  was  most  probable)  in  a  monarchy, 
London  might  be  presumed  the  principal  place  of  the  royal  resi- 
dence, as  most  convenient  for  trading,  and  commodious  for  situation : 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  II.      391 

I  say  London,  an  infant  in  the  time  of  Tacitus,  a  sttipKng  in  the 
time  of  Austin,  a  man  before  the  Conquest,  and  grown  a  giant  in 
our  days. 

37.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^'  The  first  cast  of  his  office  was  to  call  a  council 
for  the  Saxon  and  British  bishops  to  come  together,  in  the  confines  of 
the  Wiccians  and  West  Saxons."  (Ch.  Hist.  toI.  i.  p.  88.)  Our  author 
placeth  this  meeting,  within  a  few  lines  after,  in  the  confines  of  Wor-  ^ 
cester  and  Herefordshire,  and  more  rightly  there ;  Worcestershire,  or 
the  country  of  the  Wiccii,  confining  on  the  county  of  Hereford,  but 
bordermg  in  no  place  on  the  kingdom  of  West-sex,  the  whole  county 
of  Gloucester  being  interposed.  So  that  our  author  being  mistaken  in 
the  place  of  the  meeting,  it  is  no  wonder  if  he  stumble  at  the  monuments 
and  records  thereof.     Of  oiie  of  which  he  telleth  us — 

Fuller. — Here  Is  more  than  an  insinuation,  as  if  I,  in  designing 
the  place  of  this  meeting,  had  written  something  conti-ary  to  truth, 
and  also  to  myself,  who  indeed  have  exactly  followed  the  best 
authors  in  the  position  thereof. 

Bede  fixeth  it  (book  ii.  chap.  Mr.  Camden  makes  the  oak 
2)  in  cmfinio  Wicdorum  et  oc-  under  which  they  met,  in  the 
cldentalium  Saxonum^  "  in  the  borders  of  Worcester  and  Hcre- 
confines  of  Worcestershire-men  fordshire;  and  sir  Henry  Spel- 
and  West  Saxons;"  and  H.  man  doth  concur  with  him  there- 
Huntingdon  hath  the  same  words,  in . 
lib.  iii.  page  323, 

If  therefore  the  interposition  of  Gloucestershire  distanceth  Wor- 
cestershire from  confining  on  the  West  Saxons,  the  Animadvertor 
ought  to  have  vented  his  displeasure  not  on  me,  but  on  Bede,  and 
Huntingdon,  whose  words  I  exactly  translated. 

May  the  reader  be  pleased  to  take  notice,  that  Gloucestershire,  a 
limitary  county,  did  in  that  age  belong  to  three  dominions :  that 
west  of  Severn,  (now  the  Forest  of  Dean,)  to  the  Britons  or 
Welsh ;  the  east  part  thereof,  (chiefly  consisting  of  Cotswold,)  to 
the  kingdom  of  Mercia ;  and  the  middle  of  that  county,  (along  the 
east  of  Severn,)  to  the  West  Saxons,  as  I  have  seen  in  an  exquisite 
map  of  the  Heptarchy;  and  this  I  tender  as  the  most  probable 
expedient  to  reconcile  learned  authors  amongst  themselves,  and 
^11  to  the  truth,  in  bringing  Worcestershire  and  West  Saxons 
together.  Thus  being  critical  in  stating  the  place,,  and  laying  the 
scene,  I  hope  I  shall  be  the  l)etter  believed  in  relating  the  acts,  of 
tbis  Conference. 

38k  Dr.  IIeylin. — Of  one  of  which  he  telleth  us,  that  "  we  can 
part  with  it  without  any  loss  to  ourselves,"  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p»  90,) 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


392  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.        FART  II. 

and  therefore  bids  it  to  make  ''shift  for  its  own  authenticalness." 
{Ideniy  p.  89.)  The  record  slighted  thus  is  a  memorial  of  the  ansirer 
of  the  abbot  of  Bangor,  to  archbishop  Austin's  proposition,  communi- 
cated by  Peter  Moston,  a  Welsh  gentleman,  to'  that  learned  and 
industrious  antiquary  sit  Henry  Spelman,  and  by  him^  placed  in  his 
collection-  of  the  British  and  Saxon  councils :  which-  honour  he  had 
nerer  giren  it,  had  he  not  concerved  it  worthy^to  deserve  that  place; 
nor  "  had  the  papists  used  such  violence  to  wrest  it  from  us,"  without 
the  hope  of  gaining  somewhat' to  themselves. 

Fi^Li^ER. — Had  I  sMghted  that  record,  I  would  not  have  taken 
the  pains  to  have  exemplified  it  in  British  and  EngUsh,  and  pro- 
cured a  prime  antiquary  of  the  Welsh  to  correct  it.  I  have  given 
the  true  valuation  thereunto,  esteeming  it  as  highly  as  Dr.  Ham- 
mond hath  done,  thus  writing  thereof  in  his  "  Account  of  H.  T.'s 
Appendix  to  the  Manual  of  Controversy  concerning  the  abbot  of 
Bangor^s  Answer  to  Augustine  :*" — "  In  case  this  one  testimony 
should  be  demonstrated  to  be  a  simple  imposture,  we  can  ungon- 
cemedly  and  easily  part  with  it,  standing  in  no  need  of  this 
auxiliary.''  (Page  168.)  And,  not  long  after :"  The  acquisitions 
of  this  author  (H.  T.). hereby,. and  proportionably  our  losses,  must 
be  90  unconsiderable.'' 

For  the  rest,  I  refer  myself  to  my  Cliurch-History  in  this 
particular  passage^  and  stand,  ready  to  justify  the  same,  as  truly  and 
cautiously  written; 

Dr.  Heylin. — But,  to  proceed :  this  Conference  being  ended  with- 
out success,  there  followed,  not  long  after,  the  great  slaughter  of  the 
monks  of  Bangor;  for  which  our  author,  in  a  merrier  humour  than 
becomes  the  sadness  of  the  matter,  or  the  gravity  of  an  Ecclesiastical 
History,  hath  caused  Austin  to  be  indicted,  impanelling  a  jury,  and 
producing  his  evidence. 

FuLLEE. — I  am  sensible  of  no  misbecoming  mirth  or  levity 
therein*  The  impanelling  of  a  jury  is  one  of  the  most  solemn  and 
serious  of  all  the  proceedings  in  our  law ;  I  preferred  this  method 
as  the  clearest  to  present  all  passages  to  the  fancy,  and  fittest  to  fix 
tlxe  same  in  the  memory,  of  the  reader* 

39.  Dr.  Heylin. — Amongst  which,  Matthew  Parker,  the  learned 
archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  John  Jewel,  the  renowned  bishop  of 
Salisbury,  must  be  rejected  by  the  jury  as  incompetent  witnesses; 
"partly,  because  of  their  Mnown  opposition  to  the  Romish  cfiurch; 
and,  partly,  because  of  their  modem  writing, — almost  a  thousand  years 
after  the  matter  in  fact."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  95.)  And  all  this  done 
to  add  the  greater  honour  to  Mr.  Fox,  as  modem  as  either  of  the  two, 
and  as  averse  as  either  of  them  from  the  church  of  Rome.  But  Mr. 
loicw^asMr.  Fox^ — no  friend  unto  th&;  rites  and  ceremonies  of  the 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  II.      393 

churck  of  England;  whereas  the  othep  two  were  bishops,  and  great 
sticklers  for  theni.  This  makes*  our  author  magnify  Fox  for  his 
modeFBtion ;  whose  ^  moderate  testimony,"  saith  he,  ^^  much  moTed 
the  whole  court ;  *  and  as  muck  to  eondemn  the  others  for  the  ^^  sharp- 
ness  of  their  expressions  against  Anstin,**^  (whom  our  author  himself 
reproacheth  often  for  his  pride  and  haughtiness,  Idem^  p.  92,)  which 
made  them  of  less  credit  amongst  the  jury.  A  thread  of  which  fine 
spinning  we  shall  find  frequently  interwoyen  in  the  whole  weVof  this 
History ;  and,  towards  the  latter  end  thereof,  not  a  few  whole  pieces 
made  of  ncr  better  yam.  And  let  the  reader  take  this  with  him  for  a 
taste  of  Our  authors  good  affections  to  the  sereral  parties,  that  it  is 
bare  M.  Parker  and  plain*  bishop  Jewel,  without  welt  or  guard,  but 
^  reyerend  Mr.  Fox  "  by  nil  means ;  and'  so>  let  him  pass.  And  let  us 
pass  also  to  the  residue  of  the  acts  of  Austin — 

Fuller. — 1.  I  did  not  expect  that  the  Animadvertor,  being  of 
Magdalene's  in  Oxford,  would  baye  been  offended  to  haye  heard  his 
collegiate  (Mr.  Fox)  to  be  commended. 

2.  The  testimonies  of  archbishop  Parker  and  bishop  Jewel  are 
(lo  hold  the  balance  indifferently)  the  less  yalued,  because  in  some 
sort  they  were  parti'eSj  as  who  (in  their  writings)  had  engaged  them- 
selves in  this  present  controversy,  whilst  Mr,  Pox  stands  neuter  as 
to  this  particular  controyersy. 

3.  Though  the  Animadvertor  be  pleased  to  entitle  him  "  no 
friend  to  the  rites  and  ceremonies  of  the  church  of  England,''  givo 
me  leave  to  add,  "  and  he  was  no  fierce  foe  against  them.''  "  But 
Hr.  Fox  was  Mr.  Fox,"  and  Dr.  Ueylin  is  Dr.  Heylin. 

4.  As  Mr.  Fox  hath  now  the  easual-  favour  of  my  pen^  to  be 
epitheted  "  reyerend,"  so  afterwards,  "  without  welt  or  guard," 
le  is  plainly  called  John  Fbx^*  The  Animadyertor  in  this  his 
slight  note,  reaping  what  was  not  purposely  sown,  will  find  little 
food  in  what  he  reaps. 

Lastly.  Bishop  Jewel  hath  his  large  and  due  character  of  com- 
mendation (with  all  honourable  additions  with  advantage)  in  due 
place.f  So  also  hath  archbishop  Parker,  on  the  same  token,  that, 
in  my  History  of  Cambridge,  (page  26,)  I  clear  him  from  the 
scandalous  insinuation  of  Brian  Twyne :  Si  illis.  standum  sit,  &c., 
suggesting  some  unworthy  suspicions,  as  if  he  had  falsified  Matthew 
Paris  in  his  edition  thereof. 

40.  Dr.  Heylin. — "Who  all  this  while  was  very  industrious,  and 
no  less  successful,  in  converting  the  Saxons  to  the  Christian:  faith : 
insomuch  that  a  certain  author  reporteth,  how,  in  the  river  Swale,  near 
Richmond  m  Yorkshire,  he  in  one  day  baptized  above  ten  thousand:" 
(ph.  Hist.  vor.  i.  p.  97.)     The  certain  author  whom  he  means,  is  an 

•  ChiiTch-History,  book  ix.  vol.  Hi.  page  91,  f  /<<«»,  Ub,  ix.vol.  u.  page  602, 

«d  oft^before. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


394  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCB.  PAAT  II. 

old  fragment  of  a  nameleas  author,  cited  by  Camden,  fol.  136,  mrho 
telb  the  stoiy  otherwise  than  our  author  doth.  For  though  the  frag- 
ment tell  us,  that  the  riyer  was  caUed  Svrale,  jet  that  it  mcas  the  river 
Swale  near  Richmond  in  Yorkshire,  is^  the  addition  of  our  author. 
That  there  is  a  rirer  of  that  name  near  Richmond,  is  affirmed  by 
Camden  who  withal  telleth  us,  ^  that  it  was  reputed  rery  sacred  amongst 
the  ancient  English ;  for  that  in  it,  when  the  Englidi  Saxons  first  em* 
braced  Christianity,  there  were  in  one  day  b^»tized  with  festital  joy 
by  Paulinus  the  archbishop  of  York,  abore  ten  thousand  men,  besides 
women  and  little  children."*  Of  Austin's  baptizing  in  this  river,  not 
one  word  saith  he.  Neither  doth  Beda  touch  upon  it ;  as  certainly  he 
would  hare  done,  had  there  been  ground  for  it.  And  therefore,  if  1 
may  have  leave  to  venture  my  opinion,  I  shall  concur  with  the  old 
fragment  as  to  the  name  of  the  river,  and  yet  not  carry  Austin  out  of 
Kent,  and  much  less  into  Bichmondshire,  to  perform  that  office.  For 
when  we  find  in  Camden,  that  the  Medway,  falling  into  the  Thames, 
is  divided  by  the  Isle  of  Sheppey  into  two  great  branches,  of  which  the 
one  is  called  East-Swale,  the  other  West -Swale  ;t  I  see  no  reason  ^hy 
we  should  look  any  where  else  for  that  river  Swale  mentioned  in  the 
old  fragment,  which  before  we  spake  of.  But  herein  I  must  submit 
myself  to  more  able  judgments.  The  place  agreed  on,  we  should  next 
inquire  into  the  numbers,  but  thai  our  author  seems  to  grant  as  much 
as  the  fragment  craveth. 

Fuller. — I  could  heartily  wish  that  all  the  Animadvertors 
book  had  consisted  of  such  matter,  then  had  it  been  greater  though 
less;  I  mean  bigger  in  benefit,  though  smaller  in  bulk,  and  more 
instructive  to  the  reader  thereof.  I  did  not  before  take  notice  ot 
either  East-  or  West-Swale  in  Kent ;  and  now  profess  myself  the 
Animadvertor's  convert  in  this  point,  agreeing  with  him,  that  this 
grand  baptizing  (if  done  by  St.  Austin)  was  done  in  the  place  by 
him  specified. 

But  this  still  doth  more  and  more  confirm  me  in  my  judgment, 
that  Austin  advanced  never  into  Yorkshire,  and  that  the  conversion 
of  the  Northumbrians  was  the  work  of  Paulinus  and  others. 

41.  Db.  HEYLiN.—Only  he  telleth  us,  that  "  if  so  many  were  bap- 
tized in  one  day,  it  appears  plainly,  that  in  that  age  the  administration 
of  that  sacrament  was-  not  loaded  with  those  superstitious  ceremonies, 
as  essential  thereunto,  of  crossing,  spittle,  oil,  cream,  salt,  and  sucn- 
lik©  trinkets."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  98.)  Our  author  here  reckoneth 
the  sign  of  the  cross  in  baptism  amongst  the  vain  trinkets  and  super- 
stitious ceremonies  of  the  church  of  Rome,  and  thereby  utterly  con- 
demneth  the  church  of  England ;  which  doth  not  only  require  it  in  ^^ 
Rubrics,  but  also  pleads  for  it  in  her  Canons,  not  as  essential  to  tba 
sacrament,  (the  papists  not  making  "  spittle,  oil,  cream,  salt,"  &e.  to 

•  Camd£n  in  Richmondahiie,  foL  720.  f  Camden  in  Kent,  fcil  333. 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ  l€ 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THK  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  II.      395 

be  ^^  essential  thereunto,"  as  our  author  saith,)  hut  only  f»r  a  sign 
significatire,  ^  in  token  that  the  partj  signed  shall  not  be  ashamed  to 
confess  the  £edth  of  Christ  crucified,  and  manfully  to  fight  under  his 
bannelr,  against  sin,  the  world,  and  the  deril,  and  to  continue  Christ's 
faithful  soldier  and  servant  unto  his  life's  end."  *    A  ceremony  not  so 
new  as  to  be  brought  within  the  compass  of  popish  '^  trinkets,"  though 
by  them  abused.     For  when  the  point  was  agitated  in  the  Conference 
at  Hampton-Court,  and  that  it  was  affirmed  by  some  of  the  bishops, 
that  the  cross  in  baptism  was  used  in  the  time  of  Constantine ;  Dn 
Reynolds,  the  most  able  man  of  the  opposite  party,  who  had  before 
acknowledged  it  to  hare  been  in  use,  in  other  cases,  from  the  rery 
times  of  the  apostles,  liad  not  one  word  to  say  against  it.t    And,  to 
say  truth,  no  man  of  modesty  and  learning  could  hare  spoken  against 
it,  when  it  was  prored  so  clearly  by  Dr.  Andrews,  then  dean  of  West- 
minster, out  of  Tertullian,  Cyprian,  Origen,  (each  of  whom  died  long 
time  before  Oonstantine's   birth,)   to  hare  been  used  tit  immortali 
lavacro^  in  that  blessed  sacrament.     That  good  old  saying  of  Tertul- 
lian, Caro  signeluTy  ut  anima  muniatur^  may  serve  once  for  all.     And 
therefore  when,  our  author  telleth  us  in  the  following  words,  that  ^'  in 
that  age  nothing  was  used  with  baptism,  but  baptism,"  it  must  be  con- 
sidered as  a  smack  of  that  old  leayen  which  more  and  more  will  sour 
the  lump  of  his  whole  discourse.     We  have  already  had  a  taste  of  it 
in  the  very  first  book,  we  find  a  continuance  of  it  here,  and  we  shall 
6ee  more  of  it  hereafter ;  our  author  not  being  coy  in  showing  his  good 
affections  not   only  to  the .  persons  of  the  Nonconformists,  but  their 
inconformity ;  not  to  the  men  only,  but  their  doctrines  and  opinions 
also.    And  this  is  that  which  we  must  trust  to  in  the  whole  course 
of  this  History. 

Fuller. — This  objection  hath  been  answered  at  large  in  the 
"  Introduction ;"  (p.  346 ;)  and  here  I  intend  no  repetition,  only 
desiring  the  reader  to  take  notice  of  those  my  words,  "  as  essential 
thereunto.'' 

Let  me  add,  that  a  curse  is  pronounced  on  those  who  remove  the 
landmarks  ;  (Deut.  xxvii.  17 ;)  and  it  falleth  most  heavy  on  them 
^ho  remove  the  limits  in  God's  worship,  (as  being  boundaries  of 
highest  consequence,)  [who]  turn  may  into  "  must,"  convenient  into 
"necessary,"  ornamental  into  "  essential." 

I  have  as  high  an  esteem  for  the  cross  in  baptism  as  the  Animad- 
vertor  himself,  so  long  as  it  observes  the  due  distance  of  an  ancient 
and  significant  ceremony,  and  intrudes  not  itself  as  essential.  A 
chain  of  gold  is  an  eminent  ornament  about  the^neck ;  but  it  may 
be  drawn  so  close,  as  to  choke  and  strangle  the  wearer  thereof. 
And  in  like  manner  ceremonies,  though  decent  and  useful,  when 
pretending  to  essentiality,  become  (as  Luther  saith)  carnificinw 
comcientice^  and  therefore  justly  may  we  beware  thereof. 

•  Farm  of  Baptism.  t  Conference,  page  71. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


394  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCBNCK.  ^ART  11. 

old  fragmcait  of  m  nami^cai  author,  cited  bj  Camden,  fol.  136,  wlio    1 
tdb  tke  aloiy  otherwise  than  our  aothw  doth.     For  thougK  the  frag- 
ment teU  as,  that  the  rirer  was  caHed  Swale,  yet  that  it  incas  the  nver    \ 

Swale  near  BidiBOiid  in  T^skshire,  is"  the  addition  of  our  a^^or. 

That  there  is  a  riTer  of  thi^  name  near  Richmond,  is  affirmed  by 

Camden  who  withal  telleth  na, « that  it  was  reputed  rery  sacred  amongst 

the  anciimt  English;  lor  thi^  in  it,  when  the  English  Saxons  first  em- 

hraced  Chtistiaaitj,  there  were  in  one  day  baptized  with  festiral  joy 

by  Ptolinns  the  aidibishop  of  York,  abore  ten  thousand  men,  besides 

wfimm  and  litde  diildrcn.'*     Of  Austin's  baptizmg  in  this  riyer,  not 

one  woid  saith  he.     Nothv  doth  Beda  touch  upon  it  ;  as  certainly  he 

would  haTe  done,  had  there  been  ground  for  it.     And  ther^ore,  if  I 

may  ha^e  leare  to  Tenture  my  opinion,  I  shall  concur  with  the  old 

fragment  as  to  the  name  of  the  rirer,  and  yet  not  carry  Austin  out  ot 

Kent,  and  mudi  less  into  lE^chmondshire,  to  perform  that  office,     f^^r 

when  we  find  in  Camden,  that  the  Medway,  falling  into  the  Thames, 

is  dirided  by  the  Isle  of  Sheppey  into  two  great  branches,  of  which  the 

one  is  called  East-Swale,  the  other  West -Swale  ;t  I  see  no  reason  ithy 

we  should  look  any  where  else  for  that  river  Swale  mentioned  in  the 

old  firagment,  which  before  we  spake  of.     But  herein  I  must  submit 

myself  to  more  able  judgments.     The  place  agreed  on,  we  should  next 

inquire  into  the  numbei^  but  that  our  author  seems  to  grant  as  much 

as  the  fragment  cmyeth. 

FuLLKR. — I  could  heartily  wish  that  all  the  Animadrertors 
book  had  consisted  of  such  matter,  then  had  it  been  greater  though 
/rtw;  I  mean  bigger  in  benefit,  though  smaller  in  bulk,  and  more 
instructive  to  the  reader  thereof.  I  did  not  before  take  notice  of 
cither  East-  or  West-Swale  in  Kent ;  and  now  profess  myself  ^^ 
Animadvertor^s  convert  in  this  point,  agreeing  with  him,  that  this 
gmnd  baptizing  (if  done  by  St.  Austin)  was  done  in  the  place  by 
him  specified. 

Rut  tliis  still  doth  more  and  more  confirm  me  in  my  judgmcni* 
that  Austin  advanced  never  into  Yorkshire,  and  that  the  conversion 
of  tl\c  Northumbrians  was  the  work  of  Paulinus  and  others. 


41.  Dr.  IIeylin.— Only  he  telleth  us,  that  *'  if  so  many  were 
tixcd  in  one  day,  it  appears  plainly,  that  in  that  age  the  administration 
of  that  8i\crament  waa-  not  loiidotl  witli  tliose  superstitious  cereinoui' ' 
i\s  essential  thereunto,  of  croB^siug,  spittle,  oil,  creiim,  saltj  aud  su»i; 
lik«  trinkets."  (Ch.  Hist,  vol,  i,  p.  98.)     Our  author  here  rr~'' 
the  sign  of  the  cross  in  baptism  i\n  qin  triitketa  @ 

Btitious  ceremonies  of  the  churc'  d  thereby  t 

dcmneth  the  church  of  England  t  only  rec^^ 

Rubrics,  but  also  pleads  for  it  lot  as  csp 

Sttcruniont,  (the  papists  not  mii  I,  cream 

•  Camden  in  Richmondshirej  fo  ei^bn  ia  K 

Digitized  by  VjQOQIC 


^'Ha 


"'^'^^ 


'*>r« 


fe 


^«, 


'**»«»f. 


as  a       »  *»« 


'"«  ;,  .,  '*e  men 


**«'^  ^\  ^'  4«re  ^°^  a«d'*  *««  fee  , 


"i« 


re 


*a«te 


hut 


ih^it^ 


».='",!""  •">  1!°*  '"  tie 


^^^/V^, 


m^ 


Word/'J''-''itic 


is.     «i 


aa 


r 


'f^iif 


*^*^oss 


Digitized  byj 


396  APPKAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  11. 

42.  Dr.  Hetlik. — ^Having  now  done  with  tlie  acts  of  Austin,  we 
sball  not  keep  onnelyes  to  so  continaed  a  discourse  as  before  vfe  did, 
but  take  our  authors  text  b^  piecemeal  as  it  comes  before  ns,  and* 
making  such  Animady^sions  on  the  same  as  maj  best  senre  to  rectify 
the  story  and  maintain  the  truth ;  as  namely^  ^^  Thus  the  Italkm, 
Spanish,  and  French,  daughters  or  nieces  to  the  Latin,  are  generaled 
from  the  corruptioB  thereofi"  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  96.)  This  is,  I 
grant,  the  common  and  receired  opinion;-  but  yet,  methinks,  our 
author  who  lores'  singularities  should  no^  Touchsafe  to  travel  <m  the^ 
public  road. 

FuLLEKi — In  my  passage  to  heaven,  T  desire*  to  go  in  the 
♦*  narrow  path,"  and  decline  "  the  broad  way  which  leadetli  to 
destruction.*"  (Matth.  vii.  14.)  But,  on  earth,  I  love  to  travel  the 
common  and  beaten  road,  as  easiest  to  find,  and  wherein  (if  wrong 
or  at  a  loss)  one  may  soonest  find  company,  to  guide  and  direct 
him. 

If  I  should  travel  over  the  Animadvertars  several' at  Lacefs- 
Court,  I  have  cause  to  suspect  he  would  sue  me  for  pedibm  ambu- 
lando;  and  it  is  hard,  if  also  he  will  not  let.  me  go  (without  carping, 
at  me)  in  the  highway  or  public  road; 

I  build  nothing  on  the  highway,  (so  to  trespass  upon  the  lord  of 
the  soil,)  but  only  peaceably  pass  along  it :  I  mean,  I  make  no 
inferences  or  deductions  from  this,  received  opinion,  I  derive  no 
consequence  thence.  All  that  I  do,  is  to  gain  just  advantage 
thereby  to  honour  the  Welsh  tongue,  by  showing  that  it  is  "no 
daughter  or  niece,''  (like  the  Italian,  Spanish,  and  French,)  but 
a  mother  and  original  language,  and  might  justly  have  expected 
tlianks,  rather  than  censure,  from  the  Animadvertor  for  my  pains, 
seeing  he  delighteth  to»  derive  himself  from  British  extraction.* 

^  Heylin  has  occasionally  poured  iU-timed  ridicule  on  what  can  be  deemed  only  tL« 
iiniaginaiy  vanity  of  Fuller ;  though  he  was  himself  in.this  respect  much  more  enlpable' 
Proud  of  the  height  from  which  he  could  deduce  his  Welsh  genealogy,  Heylin  has  not 
indeed  attempted,  like  some  of  his  countrymen,  to  trace  the  direct  line  of  bis  ^b^T 
upwards  to  Noah ;  yet  he  fearlessly  claims  remote  kindred  with  the  most  puissant  of 
the  princes  of  Wales.  The  littleness  of  undue  self-estimatk>n  not  unfrequently  betrays 
itself  in  his  most  admired  literary  productions,  and  obscures  those  better  qualities  of  the 
heart  for  which,  after  all  his  characteristic  warmth  of  spirit,  the  old  historian  will  bIv&P 
\h  the  object  of  affectionate  veneration.  Take,  from  his  <*  Cosmography,"  (folio,  1670,) 
the  description  of  <<the  commissioners  who  were  appointed.ta  conclude  thedifkiencee 
between  Llewellyn  II.  and  king  Edward  I. :" — 

"  Robert  Lord  Tiptoft,  and  some  others,  for  the  king  of  England ;  for  the  WeLA 
prince,  Grono  ap  Heylin,  a  great  maff  of  that  country,  descended  from  Brockwell 
Skythrac,  one  of  the  princes  of  Powy84and,  (from  whom,  if  Camden,  Clarendeax,  ^ 
of  any  credit,  the  author  of  these  papers  doth  derive  his  pedigree,)  under  whom  that 
family  had  the  office  of  hereditary  cup-bearer,  and  from  thence  their  name:  Heylin— 
Promut,  aive  a  poculit  y  qtuB  vox  in  proprium  nomen  abiit,  saith  the  Welsh  Die 
tionary."  (Page  326.) 

Lest  any  one  should  remain  in  ignorance  either  of.  the  lineage  or  the  quality  of  bU 


Digiti 


zedbyLiOOgle 


ANIMADVEBSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  II.      307 

Dr.  Heyuk.— ^For,  in  my  mind,  it  is  affirmed  with  better  reason 
by  our  learned  Brereivood,  ^^That  those  tongues  hare  not  sprang  from 
thevcoiraption  of  the  Latin,  bj  the  ^inimdation  and  mixture  of  bar^ 
barous  people  in  those  proyinces,  but  from  the  -first^mperfect  impression 
and  receiving  of  it  in  those  foreign  countries.*  *  For  the  Latin  tongue 
was  neyer  so  generally  received  in«ny  of  the  conquei>ed  provinces  out 
of  Italy,  as  to  be  spoken  ordinarily  >by  the  common  people.  The 
gently  and  nobility  might  be  perfect  in  it,  for  the  better  dispatch  of 
their  affairs  with  the  Roman  magistrates,  who  had  4he  ;goTemment 
and  lieatenancy^n  their  sayeral  countries.  And  some  taste  of  it  might 
be  found  with  the  Tulgar  also,  who,  having  continual  intercourse  with 
the  Eoman  soldiers,  and.  some  recourse  for  trade  to  the  Boman  colonies, 
could  not  but  get  a  smattering  of  the  Latin  tongue.  Just  so  the 
genhy  and  nobility  both  in  Wales  and  Lreland  are  trained  up,  for  the 
same  reasons,  in  the  .English  tongue ;  which  notwithstanding  could 
never  get  the  mastery  of  the  natural  languages,  or  gain  much  groimd 
on  those  of  inferior  quality.  Secondly.  Had  these  nationaVlanguages 
proceeded  from  tbe  depravation  of  the  Latin  tongue,  by  the  mixture 
of  the  barbarous  nations,  it  must  needs  follow,  that  the  Italian  had 
not  now  been  the  language  of  all  people  in  Italy,  nor  the  French  of  aU 
the  nations  which  inhabit  France :  et  sic  de  eceterig.  My  reason  is, 
because  the  Heruli,  being  settled  .in  those  parts  which  we  now  call 
Piedmont,  the  Longobards  more  towards  the  east, -the  Goths  about  the 
middle  parts,  the  Saracens  and  Greeks  in  the  realm  of  Naples,  there 
must  needs  be  as  many  distinct  languages  in  that  one  continent  as 
there  were  barbarous  nations  planted  in  it,  or  at  the  least  such  different 
dialects  as  could  be  scarce. intelligible  unto  one  another.  Whereas  it 
IS  certainly  .and  most  plainly  known,  that  there  is  only  one  language 
spoken  in  all. that  country,  equally  understood  by  all,  without  so  much 
as  any  sensible  difference  in  pronunciation ;  more  than  is  usual  in  all 
places  between  the  country  villages  and  the  neighbouring  citizens. 

^yal  anceBtor,  Hejlin,  'with  amusing  gravity,  givea  the  subjoined  brief  but  significant 
■notioe  of  him, .  in  the  next  page: — "Powya-land,  given  by  Roderick  to  Mervin  his 
jonngest  son,,  chiefly  because  he  was  a  man  of  approved- valour ,  and  so  more  fit  to  hav« 
^  portion  upon  the  borders.  In  liis  line  it  continued  a  long  time  together.  Of  the 
saccesson  of  prince  Mervin,  I  find  no  good  constat,  more  than  of  Brockwell  Skythrao 
Ijefore  remembered." 

'In  a-prec^aing  page  he  had  emblazoned^he  good  deeds  of  a  nearer  relation  vrith  a 
eeal  not  uncleserving  commendation : — '*  The  Liturgy  of  the  church  of  England  was,  by 
command  of  queen  Elizabeth,  translated.into  the  Welsh  or  British ;  as  the  Bible  also 
was,  by  virtue  of  an  Act  of  Parliament.  But  because  the  Bible  then  set  forth  was  only 
in  the  large,  church- volume,  it  waa,  in  the  beginning  of  the  reign  of  king  Charles, 
reduced  to  a  more  portable  bulk,. at  the  cost  and  charge  of  my  cousin,  Mr.  Rowland 
Heylyn,  one  of  the  aldermen  df  London ;  who  also  caused  the  book  called  M«  Practice 
of  Piety-io  be  printed  in  that  language,  for  the  instruction  of  the  people  ;  and  a  Welsh 
or  Briti^lL  dictionary  to  be  made  and  published,  for  the  understanding  of  the  language.'^ 

To  auch  outbreaks  of  the  pride  of  ancestry  as  these.  Fuller  alludes  in  the  text. — 
Edit. 

•  Brebewoqd's  "  Inguiry,"  cap.  v. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


398  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

The  like  may  be  affirmed  of  the  ancient  Gallia,  planted  on  the  east 
Bide  of  the  Loire  bj  the  Burgundians ;  on  the  west  side  of  that  rirer, 
and  towards  the  Mediterranean,  the  Pyrenees,  and  the  Aquitain  Oceaa 
by  the  GU>thic  nations;  in  most  other  parts  of  it  by  the  Franks;  and 
yet  all  speaking  (with  reiy  little  difference)  the  same  one  language, 
which,  £rom  the  most  {Predominant  people,  we  now  call  the  FrencL 
More  to  which  purpose  might  be  said,  were  not  this  sufficient. 

Fuller.-— In  this  my  expression,  that  "  the  Italian,  Spanish, 
and  French,  are  generated  from  the  corruption  of  the  Latin,^  *  the 
Animadvertor  layeth  not  so  much  weight  on  the  term  ^^  generated,"* 
as  on  the  word  "  corruption  ;**  whereas,  indeed,  whatsoever  is  gene- 
rated, must  be  by  the  comiption  (in  some  kind)  of  that  whereof  it 
is  begotten. 

Corruption  importeth  (as  current  in  common  discourse)  the 
abasing  of  a  thing  from  the  purity  thereof.  Now,  it  is  all  one,  in 
effect,  and  equally  doth  my  work,  to  dignify  the  British  as  an 
oriffinalj  above  those,  three  languages;  if  they  came  from  thcl 
imperfect  impression  or  reception  of  the  Latin,  which  may  be 
reduced  to  the  corruption  thereof.  Thus  the  Sibboleth  of  the 
Ephiaimites,f  may,  in  propriety  of  phrase,  be  said  to  have  had  its 
rise  and  being  from  the  comiption  (namely,  natural  mispronunciation) 
of  the  Hebrew  word  Shibboleth.  As  for  the  Animadvertor^s  long 
discourse  of  the  irruption  of  "  barbarous  nations,''  I  will  return  an 
answer  when  at  better  leisure,  beholding  myself  as  utterly  uncon- 
cerned therein. 

Let  me  add  a  passage  from  the  mouth  of  a  person  present 
thereat :  Bishop  Williams,  Lord-Keeper,  could  speak  the  Spanish 
very  well ;  but  knowing  how  much  it  concerned  a  minister  of  State 
to  be  perfect  master  of  his  tongue,  declined  it  in  all  negotiations. 
Now  Gondomar,  in  a  State-passage,  desired  him  to  speak  Spanish ; 
and,  on  the  bishop's  refusal  thereof,  "  My  lord,"  s*aid  the  don, 
"  do  but  spoil  your  good — turning  it  into  scurvy — Latin ;  and  it 
will  make  as  good  Spanish  as  any  in  the  world."  It  seems  he  was 
of  my  mind  in  this  present  controversy. 

4S.  Dr.  Heylin. — "  The  Hebrew,  the  common  tongue  of  the 
whole  world  before  it  was  enclosed"  (that  is  to  say,  divided)  "into 
several  languages."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  97.)  An  opinion  as  common  as 
the  other,  and  as  weakly  grounded ;  such  as  I  marvel  at  in  our  author, 
who,  having  travelled  over  all  the  Holy  Land,  should  have  been  better 
studied  in  the  true  nature  and  original  of  the  Holy  Tongue. 

Fuller. — It  is  strongly  grounded  on  convincing  arguments,  as, 
Ood  willing,  shall  soon  appear. 

1  request  the  reader  to  consnlt  my  words,  as  rendered  by  the  Animadvertar,  In 
the  former  paragraph.  f  Judges  xii.  6. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THB  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  II.      390 

The  Animadvertor^s  marvelling  why  I  am  no  better  studied  in 
the  nature  and  original  of  the  Hebrew  tongue,  who  (as  he  saith) 
"  have  travelled  over  the  Holy  Land,^  moveth  me  more  to  admire, 
that  he  himself  should  be  so  utterly  ignorant  in  the  Brazilian, 
Mexican,  Ethiopian,  Persian,  Indian,  and  Tartarian  tongues ;  but 
especially  in  the  China  language,  one  letter  whereof  he  did  never 
understand,  although  he  hath  written  a  general  ^'Oeography^  of 
the  whole  world. 

Dr.  Hetlin. — Nor  is  it  the  opinion  only,  that  this  tongue  was 
spoken  unirersally  before  tlie  flood,  and  even  in  Paradise  itself  in  the 
state  of  innocency ;  but  that  it  shall  be  spoken  in  the  celestial  Paradise, 
the  language  of  the  saints  in  glory. 

Fuller. — I  will  not  engage  myself  in  such  a  point  of  mere 
curiosity;  yet  is  it  not  improbable,  that  it  might  be  spoken  in 
"  Paradise,"  seeing  the  word  "  Paradise,^^  and  vFapahenros  in  Greek, 
is  borrowed,  as  critics  confess,  from  DTiQ  the  Hebrew  word.  Besides, 
it  is  not  probable,  that  Adam  lost  his  language  with  his  innocence ; 
and  that  he  spake  Hebrew  after  his  fall,  shall  immediately  be  proved. 

Less  will  I  trouble  myself  what  language  the  glorified  saints 
shall  speak  in  heaven ;  though  I  am  sure,  that  Hallelujah^  ^^  Praise 
ye  the  Lord ! ''  is  pure  Hebrew.  When  people  report  unto  us 
improbable  passages  from  foreign  far-distant  countries,  we  commonly 
return,  ''  that  it  is  better  to  believe  them,  than  to  go  thither  to  con- 
fute them.*"  But  if  any  have  over-confidcntly  affirmed,  "  that  the 
saints  in  glory  shall  speak  Hebrew,'**  let  us  rather  labour  to  go 
thither  to  confute  them,  than  here  to  believe  them.  Mean  time  let 
us  here  take  heed  of  the  malicious  language  of  detraction  against 
our  brethren,  and  of  scurrilous  Jind  profane  language,  whereby  piety 
may  be  dishonoured. 

Dr.  HEYLiN.-7-Insomuch  that  some  good  women  of  my  old  acquaint- 
ance we^re  once  very  eagerly  bent  to  learn  this  language,  for  fear 
(as  I  conceive)  they  should  not  chat  it  handsomely  when  they  came  to 
heaven. 

FuLLEE. — The  Doctor's  book  bears  the  title  of  ^^  Necessary 
Animadversions  C  but  if  this  be  one,  let  it  even  serve  the  reader 
for  his  necessary  use. 

Indeed,  I  have  read  of  Cato,  who,  having  heard  some  philoso- 
phers maintain  that  the  Heathen  gods  spake  Greek  in  heaven,  being 
past  sixty  years  old,  he  began  to  learn  the  Greek,  that  after  death  he 
might  the  better  converse  with  them ;  a  project  and  practice  pro- 
portionable enough  to  Pagan  principles :  the  analogy  whereof  is  too 
applicable  to  some  profane  mouths  of  our  age,  who  by  execrable 
oaths  and  curses  practise  aforehand  to  blaspheme,  rendering  them- 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ IC 


400  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  BART  II. 

selves  (without  their  serious  and  seasonable  repentance)  in  a  nearer 
capacity ^to  discourse  with  the  devils  and  damned  in  hell.  But  of 
chatting  of  Hebrew  in  heaven,  this  is  the  first  X^^^  I  Jiope  it  shall 
be  the  last)  time  I  shall  meet  with  the  expression. 

Dr.  Heylin. — Now,  for  the  ground  thereof,  it  is  no  other  than  an 
old  Jewish  tradition,  importing,  that  this,  being  the  coiomon  language 
oT  all  people  before  the  flood,  was  afterwards  appropriated  unto  Phalc^ 
(the  son  of  Heber)  and  to  his  posterity,  because  not  present  with  the 
rest  at  the  buildiqg  of  Babel,  and  consequently  not  within  the  curse 
of  confounded  languages.^  But  against  this  it  is  disputed,  First, 
that  it  is  but  a  tradition,  and  therefore  of  no  sure  foundation  to  build 
upon. 

Fuller. — Before  we  come  to  the  serious  examination  of  *t}ie 
point  in  hand,  I  would  fain  be  satisfied  what  means  this  marginal 
note,  Heylin'^s  "Cosmography,^'  page  19 !  What?  Doth  hje 
allege  himself  to  prove  his  own  opinion  ?  My  bad  heraldry  was 
never  guilty  of  such  a  fault, — metal  upon  metal ! 

Now  that  the  Hebrew  was  "  the  common  tongue  of  the  world,'" 
before  the  confusion  at  Babel,  is  more  than  a  mere  tradition,  being 
backed  with  many  authorities  and  unanswerable  arguments. 

Of  authorities,  we  begin  with  St.  Jerome,  one  who  is  "many 
authors ''  in  this  point,  because  of  his  great  and  general  skill  in 
languages,  and  who,  in  his  Comment  on  Zephany  iii.  18,  affirmeth, 
Lingtuxm  Hebraicam  omnium  linguarum  esse  matricem ;  "  that 
the  Hebrew  is  the  mother  of  all  languagesl^  Quae  prius  humano 
generi  non  immeritd  .creditur  esse  communis^  ideo  deinceps  Hebrcea 
est  nunciipata. — St.  Augustinus,  De  CiviXate  Dei,  lib.  x. 
cap.  1. 

To  these  I  will  add  a  jury  of  public  Professors,  all  x)f  eminent 
note,  since  the  reviving  of  languages  in  the  western  world  :— 

1.  Mercerus,  Professor  Parisiensis  Regis,  in  Gen.  xi.  1. 
.2.  .D.  Parens,  Prof.  Heidelberg,  in  eundum  locum. 

3.  Rivetus,  Prof.  Leiden.  Isai.iv. 

4.  Crinesius,  Prof.  Aldorphini  Noricor.  De  Con/tisione  Lingua- 
vum^  pag.  41 7« 

5.  Job.  Buxtorfius,  senior,. in  Epist.  Bed.  Thesaim-Grammat. 

6.  Job.  Buxtorfius,  junior.  Prof.  Basil.  De  Origine  Primigeniai 
Linguw^  in  4to. 

.7.  Glassius,  Prof.  Jen«,  lib.  iv.  tract.  3.  De  Nomine  Proprio, 
pag,  775. 

8.  Polyander,  Prof.  Leid.  Orat.  18.  in  Laudem  LingtuB  Hebrwce, 
pag.  296,  297. 

.  9.  Tremellius^  Prafess.  Hd>.  Lingum  Cantabrigice. 

•.  HfiYUN's  "  Cosmograpliy,"  page  19. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Animadversions  on  the  church-history,  book  ii.     401 

10.  Ft.  Junius,  Prof.  Heidelberg,  in  Gen.  xi.  1,  Urbis  yusdem^ 

11.  Whitakerus,  Prof.  Cantab.  Controv.  i.  qusest.  2.  De  Script, 

12.  Christ.  Beckman,*  De  Prop.  Voc.  Siffnificatione^  pa>g.  30. 
These  authorities  are  seconded  with  convincing  arguments.     Not 

to  insist  on  some  ruins  and  relics  of  Hebrew,  scattered  in  all 
ancient  languages,  (and  therefore  Joseph  Scaliger  hath  his  last,  as 
fituest,  recourse  to  it  in  his  quest  after  the  origination  of  words,) 
names  imposed  on  persons  before  the  confusion  of  tongues  are,  by 
the  Spirit  in  Scripture,  (the  best  interpreter,)  made  to  speak  pure 
Hebirew. 

Not  to  instance*  in  Abam,  notoriously  known  for  "  red  earth,"** 
we  take  notice  of, 

1.  Eve  or  Chdtaih^  so  called  by  her  husband,  ^'  because  she  was 
the  mother  of  all  living  ;^  (Gen.  iii.  20 ;)  and  there  is  life  enough  in 
her  name  to  justify  it. 

2.  Cain,  so  called  by  his  mother,  rejoicing  that  she  had  gotten 
a  man;  (Gen.  iv.  1 ;)  and  the  word  signifieth  "  a  possession,^  though 
therein  she  (with  many  other  parents,  abused  by  their  own  over- 
affection)  promised  herself  more  happiness  than  was  performed. 

3.  Seth,  so  named  by  his  mother  ;  "  for  God,^  said  she,  "  hath 
appointed  me  another  seed,"  &c.  (Gen.  iv.  25 ;)  and  signifieth  '*  one 
put,  placed,  or  constituted." 

4.  Noah,  so  named  by  his  father,  because  "  this  son,"  said  he» 
'^  shall  comfcHTt  us,"  &c.  (Gen.  v.  24,)  as  the  word  doth  import. 

5.  Peleg,  the  son  of  Heber,  may  be  presumed  born  at  or 
immediately  after  the  divisions  of  the  world  into  languages,  and 
colonies,  and  brooks  ^^  division"  in  his  name.  Gen.  x.  25. 

It  is  not  to  be  expected,  that  all  the  whole  sentence  (spoken  by 
their  parents)  should  be  completely  contained  in  their  name  ;  but 
only  that  the  most  operative,  emphatical,  and  expressive  word 
should  appear  therein. 

I  am  not  ignorant  that  Goropius  Becanus,  in  his  book  (which  is 
lather  smiled  at  for  the  wit,  than  approved  for  the  judgment  therein) 
deriveth  all  words  from  the  German  or  Dutch  tongue :  an  hand* 
some  and  pretty  essay,  but  I  believe  that  the  Animadvertor  is  not 
of  his  opinion. 

It  is  one  thing,  here  and  there  to  take  a  name,  and  to  make  it 
countenance  such  a  sense ;  and  another  thing,  to  charge  through  and 
through,  so  as  all  names  may  be  demonstrated  Hebrew  in  person^ 
horn  before  the  confusion  of  Babel. 

How  vain  would  he  prove  himself,  who  from  the  name  of  Ahiman, 

*  For  tbe  elder  Bmtorf  and  Beckman^  I  am.  at  certain  they  were^  aa  imcertain  wbere^ 
[Aey  were,]  public  profefMra,  ^ 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


402  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

one  of  the  giant  sons  of  Anak,  (Numb.  xiii.  22,)  and  ftorasome 
correspondency  of  height  in  our  language,  ["  a  high  man,"]  vodd 
thence  infer,  that  English  was  the  ancient  tongue  spokwi  in  the 
land  of  Canaan ! 

But  I  have  stayed  loo  long  on  this  discourse,  and  refer  the  rest 
unto  Dr.  Brian  Walton ;  who,  in  his  Preface  unto  the  last  and 
very  laborious  and  judicious  edition  of  the  Hebrew  and  many-lan- 
guaged  Bible,  hath  no  less  learnedly  than  copiously  handled  tte 
subject. 

Dr.  Heylin. — And,  Secondly,  that  it  is  sucb  a  tradition  as  holds 
no  good  coherence  vnih  the  truth  of  story ;  it  being  a  most  dear  and 
demonstrative  truth,  that  the  Hebrew  tongue  was  not  the  language 
which  Abraham  brought  witb  him  out  of  Chaldaea  and  Mesopota^ 
but  that  whicb  he  found  spoken  in  the  l^d  of  Canaan  at  his  eoming 
thither,  to  which  both  he  and  his  posterity  did  conform  themselves. 
Or,  had  it  been  the  language  of  Heber,  as  they  say  it  was,  (but  most 
undoubtedly  was  not,)  yet.  Thirdly,  had  this  been  a  privilege  conferred 
on  Heber,  that  he  and  his  posterity  should  speak  tbe  original  language 
without  alteration  or  corruption,  it  must  have  been  extended  to  all 
those  of  the  house  of  Joktan,  which  descend  from  bim ;  as  also  to  the 
house  of  Laban  in  Padan-Aram,  and  to  the  Moabites,  and  the 
Ammonites,  as  the  seed  of  Lot ;  and,  finally,  to  tbe  Midianites,  Ish- 
maelites,  and  Idumeeans,  descended  of  Abraham  and  Esau;  and  not 
be  limited  and  confined  only  to  the  house  of  Jacob.  Now,  that  the 
language  which  afterwards  was  and  still  is  called  by  the  na«ie  of  "the 
Hebrew,"  was  spoken  vulgarly  in  the  land  of  Canaan  before  the 
<;oming  of  Abraham  thither,  is  not  affirmed  by  Brerewood  only,  but  by 
Scaliger,  Grotius,  Yossius,  Bochartus,  (all  of  them  men  of  ff^ 
renown  for  their  learned  studies,)  and  by  many  others  of  this  ag|e.  By 
moist  of  which  it  is  affirmed  also,  that  the  name  of  Hbbeews  was 
given  unto  them  by  the  people  of  Canaan,  not  in  regard  of  their 
descent  from  Heber  the  father  of  Phaleg,  but  from  Abr^m's  passing 
over  the  river  Euphrates,  when  he  came  out  of  Chaldsea  with  his 
femily  to  dwell  amongst  them ;  that  name  in  the  Canaanitish  language 
signifying  as  much  as  irajiciens  or  transfluvialis ;  and  therefore  not 
unfitly  given  by  them  to  Abraham  at  his  first  coming  thither.  And  if  the 
Hebrew  (as  we  now  call  it)  was  that  holy  language  which  was  spoken 
in  Paradise,  continued  by  the  patriarchs  before  the  flood,  and,  after,  to 
the  building  of  Babel ;  it  must  needs  seem  infinitely  strange,  that  it 
should  be  reserved  only  amongst  the  Canaanites,  accursed  in  the  person 
of  Canaan,  (their  common  parent,)  by  his  grandfather  Noah,  and  so 
abominated  by  God  for  their  filthy  wickednesses  that  he  resolved  to 
speW  them  out  of  their  native  country,  as  in  fine  he  did.  Or  if  Ahra- 
bam  brought  it  with  him  also,  when  he  came  into  the  land  of  Canaan, 
be  must  needs  leave  it  bebjpd  him  also  amongst  the  Chaldees,  where 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  II.       409 

he  tras  l)oni,  and  where  his .  ancestors  had  dwelt  before  their  remoral 
unto  Haran.  And  yet  we  know  that  the  Hebrew  tongue  was  so  dif- 
ferent from  the  Chaldean,  Aat  when  the  JewB  returned  from  the  cap- 
tiyitj  of  Babjlon,  where  they  had  been  accustomed  to,  and  bred  up 
for  the  most  part  in,  l^e  Chaldean  language ;  they  could  not  under- 
stand the  yeiy  words  of  the  Hebrew  text  without  an  interpreter,  as  is 
apparent  in  the  eighth  chapter  of  Nehemiah,  verses  ?»  B.  But  of  this 
aigmnest  enou^,  let  us  now  go  forward. 

FuLiEE.— There  be  three  distinct  questions,  which  the  Animad* 
vertor  doth  purposdy  huddle  toget;her  for  his  own  advantage  :•— - 

1.  Whether  4he  Hebrew  was  the  common  tongue  of  the  old 
TTorld. 

2.  Whether  the  Hebrew  was  so  preserved  ^in  the  posterity  of 
Heber,  and  so  confined  to  his  family,  that  no  other  communicated 
therein. 

S.  Whether  Abraham  did  bring  the  Hebrew  tongue  into  the 
land  of  Canaan  ;  or  rather  found  it  there,  as  spoken  formerly  by 
the  natives  thereof. 

Such  as  maintain  the  first,  (of  the  co-evity  of  the  Hebrew  with 
the  world  and  mankind,)  are  not  necessarily  obliged  to  defend  the 
two  latter. 

I  said,  and  only  said,  (as  neither  enforcing  it,  nor  inferring  any 
thing  thence,)  that  *'  the  Hebrew  was  the  common  tongue  of  the 
world ; ''  and  have  proved  it.  The  rest  I  am  ready  to  say,  so  soon 
as  the  jiffirming  thereof  shall  lie  in  my  way,  or  make  for  my  work  ; 
and  thep,  God  willing,  I  will  defend  my  positions.  Till  then  I 
:will  gratify  the  A nimad vertor  with  no  other  answer:  and  that  for 
ihese  reasons  :  (1.)  To  show  my  own  liberty,  that  I  am  free  born, 
ftnd  not  bound  to  lacquey  after  his  Animadversions  when  I  have 
no  business  of  my  own.  (2.)  To  wean  him  from  moroseness,  by 
not  indulging  too  much  to  his  humour  thejiein.  Lastly.  To  spare 
time,  my  own  and  the  reader^s  pains  now,  that  we  may  the  more 
seasonably  spend  them,  hereafter,  on  matter  of  more  importance. 

44.  Dn.  HuvtiN.— "  As  Pitseus  a  Catholic  writer  would  have 
it."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  103.)  A  Roman  .Catlmlic  if  you  wUI, 
hut  no  "  catholic  writer."  And  much  I  wonder  that  an  author  so 
averse  from  the  Church  of  Bome  should  give  the  title  of  Catholic  to 
d  stickler  in  the  Romish  quarrel;  though  others  of  less  eeal  and  pru^ 
dence  do  commonly,  but  inconsiderately,  bestow  it  on  them ;  a  title 
whidh  they  take  with  joy,  and  from  thence  suck  unto  themselves  no 
«niaU  advantage.  Adto  jtrobanda  est  Ecclesia  nostra  a  nomine 
Ce^hoticiy  quod  estiorquet  etiam  a.b  invitis  Hcereiicis  y  *  as  is  bragged 
hy  Barclay.     But  as  ipope  Gbegory,. pleading. against  the  patriarch  of 

♦  Par€tn$9.  ad  SeotM,  p.  90i 

2d2 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


404  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

Constantinople,  who  had  then  assumed  unto  himself  the  name  of 
"oecumenical  hishop,"  advertiseth  all  the  rest  of  that  sacred ordei: 
Si  ille  est  Unitersalis,  restat  ut  vos  nan  sitis  episcopi ;  *  so  may  I 
saj  with  reference  to  the  present  case :  By  gratifying  these  men  witk 
the  name  of  Catholics^  we  do  unwittingly  confess  ourselres  to  be  no 
Christians,  or  at  least  hut  heretics. 

Fuller.— Had  I  called  Pits  "  a  Roman  Catholic,''  then  the 
Animadvertor  would  have  chaiged  me  with  a  contradiction,  of*' a 
Particular  General.*"  To  clear  all,  catholic  shall  be  deleted  in  tie 
next  edition,  vaipapiH  placed  in  tbe  room  thereof. 

It  is  no  great  wonder  if  my  pen,  perusing  many  authors  of  tie 
Romish  persuasion,  hath  got  a  smatch  of  their  language.  Bat  the 
danger  is  the  less,  seeing  the  Animadvertor  will  be  my  compuiga^ 
tor,  that  my  judgment  is  not  inclined  to  their  erroneous  opinions. 
However,  he  might  have  omitted  this  note,  who,  in  his  book  against 
Mr.  Sanderson,  calleth  the  whole  lump  of  English  papists,  "the 
catholicity ;  "  as  also  he  termeth  them  so  in  his  "  View  of  the 
Life  of  King  Charles  :'** — "  A  necessity  lay  on  prince  Charles  (then 
in  Spain)  of  keeping,  at  that  time,  a  plausible  correspondency  with 
the  catholic  party .'^  (Page  27,  the  two  first  lines.) 

Nor  can  he  justly  condemn  that  in  me,  which  he  committeth  in 
himself. 

45.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^'  Oxford  lays  claim  to  the  antiquities  of  Creke- 
lade  and  Lechlade,  two  ancient  schools  of  Greek  and  Latin,  as  some 
would  have  it,  removed  afterwards  to  Oxford,"  &c.  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i. 
p.  114.)  The  like  we  find  in  page  179,  where  our  author  telleth  u^ 
of  "  two  towns  on  the  banks  of  the  Isis,  the  one  called  Greeklade,  in 
which  the  Greek,  the  other  Lechlade,  or  Latinlade,  in  which  the  Latin 
tongue  was  taught  by  philosophers."  Most  miserably  mistaken  ifl 
both  places.  For  though  Crekelade  or  Grekelade  may  import  a  stuQj 
of  Greek  philosophers,  as  some  are  ready  to  believe ;  t  yet  certainly 
Lechlade  in  no  language  will  signify  the  like  study  of  the  Latia 
tongue.  The  country  people,  as  it  seems,  do  better  understand  them- 
selves than  our  author  doth ;  amongst  whom  there  is  a  common  tradi- 
tion, that  Crekelade  was  a  University  of  Greek  philosophers,  Lechlade 
of  lechesy  or  physicians,  as  the  name  doth  intimate;  and  Latten,  a 
small  village  betvdxt  both,  to  be  the  place  of  study  for  the  Latin 
tongue.  But  though  the  people  are  mistaken  in  the  etymon  of  tne 
name  of  Leehlade,  yet  are  they  not  so  far  out  as  our  author  is,  i» 
making  Lechlade  or  Latinlade  to  be  both  the  same  place  and  of  tw 
same  signification;  whereas,  in  truth,  that  town  is  so  denominateo 
from  the  river  Lech,  which,  arising  in  the  hills  of  Cotswold,  ^^m 
first  by  Northlech,  from  thence  to  Eastlech,  and  finally  falleth  into  we 
Thames  near  St.  John's  Bridge,  in  this  parish  of  Lechlade.  Afl  for  the 
•  Orboobii  M.  EpUi.  70.  f  Camden  in  Wiltshire,  341. 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


ANIMADVEB5I0NS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  II.       405 

TJniyersitj  of  Oxford,  which  from  hence  took  begiimiiig,  as  otor  author 
hath  it,  and  the  antiquity  thereof^  I  shall  not  meddle  at  the  present  t 
though  our  author,  foi^etting  the  suhject  which  he  was  to  write  of, 
takes  aU  occasions  to  hook-in  eyeiy  old  tradition,  (though  less  pro- 
bably grounded,)  to  justify  the  seniority  of  the  younger  sister. 

Fuller. — I  live  and  learn,  being  in  this  particular  beholden  to 
the  Animadyertor.  It  seem  there  be  three  places  near  one  ano* 
ther: — 1.  Crekelade,  where  Greek  is  reported  professed.  2.  Leech- 
lade,  where  Physic  is  reported  professed.  3.  Latten,  where  Latin 
is  reported  professed. 

The  last  of  these  I  never  heard  of  before,  and  since  have  never 
seen  in  any  map ;  (ShoxtonX  Camden's,  Speed^s ;)  so  that  it  seema 
an  inconsiderable  village.  However,  my  next  edition,  God  willing, 
sLall  be  reforme.d  accordingly.  And  yet  I  might  justly  discount 
this  my  mistake,  and  make  it  go  for  nothing,  by  setting  another  of 
the  Animadvertofs  over  against  it ;  when,  in  the  close  of  his  last 
note,  he  informeth  us,  that  the  river  Lech  falleth  into  the  Thames 
in  the  parish  of  Lechlade  :  whereas  Thames  is  more  than  eighteen 
miles  from  Lechlade  by  land,  (and  thirty  by  water,)  not  taking  the 
name  until  the  confluence  of  Tame  with  Isis,  near  to  -Dorchester  in 
Oxfordshire.  This  small  error  I  had  passed  over  in  silence,  but 
because  I  have  to  do  with  an  adversary  who  lieth  at  catch  for  the 
least  advantage ;  and  therefore  he  ought  not  to  be  offended,  if  I 
return  him  the  same  measure  I  receive  from  him. 

46.  Dr.  Hetlin. — ^^  Deira,  whence,  some  say,  Deirham  or  Durham, 
lay  betwixt  Tees  and  Humber."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  1170  ^ore  out 
of  this,  than  in  his  Lechlade  or  Latinlade,  which  before  we  had.  For, 
First,  Durham  is  not  so  called  quasi  Deirham, 

Fuller. — It  seems  that  the  Animadvertor  playeth  always  at 
in  and  in^  and  I,  alas  !  at  out  and  out ;  but  herein  I  am  not  out 
one  hair's  breadth,  as  soon  will  appear. 

Dr.  Heylin. — Our  learned  antiquary  gives  us  a  better  and  more 
certain  derivation  of  it :  "  The  river,"  saith  he,  "  as  though  it  purposed 
to  make  an  island,  compasseth  almost  on  every  side  the  chief  city  of 
this  province,  standing  on  a  hill,  whence  the  Saxons  gave  it  the  name 
of  Dunholm.  For  as  you  may  gather  out  of  Bede,  they  called  an  hill 
rfwn,  and  a  river-island  holme.  Hereof  the  Latin  writers  have  made 
I>unelmum ;  the  Normans,  Duresme ;  but  the  common  people,  most 
corruptly,  Durham," 

Fuller. — "  Our  learned  antiquary ''  (though  here  not  named) 
doth  name  himself,  even  Mr.  Camden.  I  ever  did  and  do  believe, 
that  he  giveth  the  true  denomination  of  Durham,  so  called  from 
Dunholm. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


406  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

Bot  let  me  add,  ihat  I  may  law fiilly,  withoiii  (he  kdst  fault,  give- 
.  In  also  another  etymology,  (though  not  true,  yet  probable,)  which  I 
meet  with  in  perusing  of  several  writers. 

Mercator,  in  his  Description  of  Italy,  saith,  **  Some  will  have  it 
80  called  quasi  Vitulia^  from  the  fairest  and  fattest  calves  bred 
therein;''  though  I  believe,  that  he  himself  did  not  believe  it  to 
be  true,  but  only  relates  it  as  he  found  it  in  Festus.  I  may  chal- 
lenge the  likiB  liberty  of  presenting  etymologies  of  places,  as  tendered 
to  me  by  othfer  authors. 

Dr.  Heylin. — But,  Secondly,  (which  mars  all  the  matter,)  the 
bishopric  of  Durham  was  not  in  the  kingdom  of  Deira,  as  being 
wholly  situate  on  the  north  side  of  the  Tees,  and  consequently  part  of 
the  realm  of  Bernicia ;  which  makes  our  author's  mistake  in  another 
place  the  more  remarkable,  where,  speaking  of  the  kingdom  of  Deira, 
he  gives  us  this  comment  in  the  margin,  namely,  "  What  this  day  is 
the  bishopric  of  Deirham  or  Durham."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  73.) 

Fuller. — Be  it  here  rather  repeated  than  inserted,  that  in  the 
Saxon  Heptarchy  limitary  counties  did  march  and  retreat,  dilated 
and  contracted  by  their  princes'  success. 

As  for  the  bishopric  of  Durham,  (though  sometimes  it  might 
belong  to  Bernicia,)  yet  generally  it  was  the  north-east  boundary  of 
the  kingdom  of  Deira ;  as  in  the  archbishop  of  Armagh  doth  plainly 
appear ;  "  Deiri  possessed  Lancashire,  Yorkshire,  Westmoreland, 
Cumberland,  Bishopric  of  Durham."— D^  Brit.  Ecdes.  Primord. 
pag.  395. 

Let  me  add,  that  he  is  as  exact  (even  to  fractions)  as  any  who 
ever  wrote  of  the  partage  of  the  Saxon  Heptarchy. 

Dr.  Heylin. — But  as  long  as  "  some  say  so,"  all  is  wdl ;  though 
who  those  some  arc,  (except  our  author,)  I  can  no  where  find.  Only 
I  find,  that  as  it  is  held  necessary  for  a  no-booy  to  be  in  all  great 
houses,  to  bear  the  blame  of  such  mischances  as  by  the  carelessness 
of  servants  and.  the  inconsiderateness  of  children  do  too  often  happen ; 
BO  is  it  no  less  necessary,  that  there  should  be  a  some-body  also  in  all 
great  undertaldngs,  to  bear  the  blame  of  i^uch  misfortunes  as  our  adven- 
turers-at-wit  do  as  often  meet  with. 

Fuller. — What  if  he  "  can  no  where  find  it,''  doth  it  therefore 
follow  that  it  is  not  to  be  found  ?  Will  he  presume  that  his  own 
jading  is  adequate  to  things  being  ? 

This  nobody^  so  much  derided  by  the  Animadvertor,  will  at  last 
appear  somehodyy  even  Mr.  John  Fox  :  "  Deira,  a  part  of  North- 
Saxons  ;  whereof,  as  it  is  thought,  that  which  we  now  call  Deirham 
taketh  his  name."  "  Acts  and  Monuments,"  page  149,  last  edition. 

Thus,  reader,  I  have  discharged  myself  from  all  appearance  of 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


AHIMABVfiRglONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTOllY,  BOOK  It.      &t 

faulty  by  prodaciDg  my  author,  a  leamed  and  able  historian,  how 
meanly  soever  the  Animadvertor  may  be  pleased  to  esteem  him. 

47.  JyvL.  Hetlin — ^And  such  a  somb-bodt  as  this,  our  author  hath 
found  out  to  be  the  &ther  of  another  conceit  of  his  concerning  Tyburn, 
(that  I  may  take-in  this  also  whilst  it  is  in  my  mind,)  of  which  he 
tells  us,  that  "  some  haye  deduced  the  etymology  of  Tyburn  from  ty 
and  burne;"  because  forsooth  the  lord  Cobham  was  there  ^^  hanged 
and  burnt."  (Ch.  Hist.  yoI.  i.  p.  489.)  Whereas,  indeed,  it  was  so 
named  from  the  Tey,  or  Teyboum,  a  small  brook  passing  near  unto  it 
in  the  former  times.  Which  brook  or  bourn,  arising  not  &r  from 
PaddiDgton,  hath  since  been  drawn  into  seyeral  conduits  for  the  use  of 
the  city. 

FuLLEE.— I  have  heard  of  the  Animadvertor's  etjrmology,  and    . 
believe  it  probable.     I  have  also  been  informed,  from  good  anti- 
quaries, that  the  true  name  is  Twey-bom,  from  two  little  brooks 
(wherewith  it  is  insulated  in  the  winter)  running  near  to  it. 

The  deduction  of  Tye-bom,  cUias  "  I  bum,^  from  burning  of 
Lollards,  I  protest  I  did  read  in  Harpsfield,  and  it  is  none  of  my 
ovn  invention. 

48.  Dr.  Hetlin. — ''  A  place  so  marked,  being  foretold  fortunate  to 
-flEneas  to  found  Alba  (since  Rome)  therein."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  146.) 
A  passage  as  well  stored  with  errors  as  the  rest  before,  and  such  a 
piece  of  fine  new  learning  as  never  any  antiquary  had  found  out  till 
now.  For,  First,  ^neas  was  not  the  founder  of  Alba,  though  that  the 
place  designed  unto  him  for  the  seat  of  his  kingdom.  The  building 
of  that  city  was  the  work  of  Ascanius,  as  we  find  in  Yirgil : — • 

jit  puer  Ascanius regnumgue  a  sede  Lavint 

Transferet,  et  Longam  muUd  vi  muniet  Albam, 

That  is  to  say, 

''  Ascanius  from  Lavinnm  shall  translate, 
To  Alba  strongly-fenced,  the  regal  state." 

And,  Secondly,  Alba  was  not  built  in  the  place  where  Kome  since 
stood,  hut  duodecimo  ah  urbe  lapide^  "  about  twelve  miles  off."  For 
though  the  river  Tiber,  in  some  ancient  writers,  hath  the  name  of 
Albula,  yet  I  never  found  in  any  writer,  either  old  or  new,  (till  I 
encountered  it  in  our  author,)  that  Rome  was  anciently  called  Alba. 

PuLLEK. — Rather  than  any  difference  shall  arise  betwixt  us 
about  this  matter,  the  parenthesis  ('*  since  Rome")  shall  be  altered 
into  ('« near  Rome''),  and  then  I  hope  all  shall  be  right  and  straight 
beyond  exception. 

49.  Dr.  Heylin. — "It  is  admirable  to  consider  what  shoals  of 
people  were  formerly  vented  out  of  Cimhrica  Chersonesus,  take  it,  in 
th«  laigest  extent,  for  Denmark,  Norway,  and  Swedeland."  (Ch.  Hist. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


40§  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCEKCE.  PART  11. 

vol.  i.  p*  159.)  And  in  the  largest  extent  it  is  taken  indeed,  such  tf 
no  autiior  eyer  gare  it  before  this  time.  The  Cimhric  Chersonese, 
truly  and  properly  so  called,  comprehended  only  those  parts  of  the 
kingdom  of  Denmark  which  we  now  call  Jutland,  divided  by  the  rirer 
Eydore  QEyder]  from  the  dukedom  of  Holstein.  Ortelius  and  some 
late  geographers  make  it  to  take  up  all  that  languet^  or  "  piece  of 
land,"  on  the  north  of  Germany,  extended  from  the  river  Albis  in  the 
south,  and  stretching  northward  to  that  part  of  the  ocean  which  leads 
into  the  narrow  strait  or  passage  now  called  Sundt.  But  never  any, 
till  our  author,  extended  this  name  over  those  great  kingdoms  of 
Denmark,  Norway,  and  Swedeland,  or  unto  any  part  of  either  beyond 
the  Sundt.  And  yet  he  had  need  stretch  it  a  great  deal  further  before 
he  can  find  a  place  in  it  for  his  Huns  and  Vandals ;  of  which  the 
first  inhabited  in  Asia,  beyond  the  fens  of  Maeotis ;  the  last  upon  the 
^oast  of  the  Baltic  Sea  in  Germany,  now  the  dukedom  of  Mecklen- 
burgh. 

FuLLEE.— That  Dcnmaik,  Norway,  and  Swedeland,  are  a  cher- 
flonesus,  or  "  almost  an  islatid,''  the  Animadvertor  will  not  deny. 
But  that  I  called  them  the  Cimbrian  Chersonese,  cannot  clearly 
be  collected  from  those  my  words,  "  take  it  in  the  largest  extent ; 
which  amount  only  to  a  concession,  to  such  who  have  a  mind  so  to 
accept  it,  and  to  extend  the  bounds  thereof. 

Here  plainly  to  discover  my  judgment,  I  conceive  that  those 
shoals  of  people  did  noty  and  yet  did,  come  out  of  the  Cimbnc 
Chersonese,  in  the  strict  and  true  acceptation  thereof. 

They  did  not ;  that  is,  they  came  not  thence,  as  having  all  tlieir 
birth  therein.  Jutland,  not  so  big  as  Yorkshire,  and  the  lan^ 
the  Animadvertor  speaks  of,  not  bigger  than  Wales,  being  hives 
too  little  to  hold  such  swarms  and  casts  of  people. 

Yet  I  believe  they  did  come  out  of  that  Chersonese  immedi- 
ately ;  it  being  most  probable,  that,  out  of  the  opposite  continent 
of  Norway  and  Swedeland,  they  crossed  the  Baltic  Sea,  being  na^ 
rowest  thereabouts,  and  so  came  into  Jutland,  and  thence  inunded 
the  most  of  Europe, 

50.  Dr.  Heylin. — "  Datum  in  Granteceslrid^  anno  ah  Incarnatione 
Domini  915,  venerabili  fratri  Frithstano^  civitalis  scholarium  Can^ 
tabrig.  Cancellarioy  et  Doctori  per  suum"  ^c.  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i« 
p.  190.)  These  words  are  the  conclusion  of  an  ancient  charter,  sup- 
posed to  have  been  given  to  the  scholars  of  Cambridge  by  king  Edward 
the  elder ;  against  which  our  author  fancies  one  objection,  which  he 
thinks  easy  to  be  answered,  but  utterly  leaves  out  another,  which  1 
think  unanswerable.  The  objection  which  our  author  makes  against 
it,  is  the  barbarous  style  and  language  of  it ;  which,  if  it  be  a  good 
objection  against  this  charter,  will  be  as  strong  against  all  the  charters 
of  this  age,  as  some  ages  following,  in  which  there  was  but  little  of 


Digiti 


zedbyLiOOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THfi  CHUHCH-filStORY,  BOOK  II.    409 

the  elegances  of  the  Latin  tongue.  And  therefore  this  ohjection 
might  haye  well  heen  spared,  hnt  that  our  author  would  be  thought  to 
deal  reiy  equally  in  the  business,  by  saying  all  that  might  be  said 
against  himself. 

FuLLKB. — I  plead  my  last  general  answer,  (page  296,)  discharge 
iug  myself,  because  I  did  there  charge  my  margin  with  two  authors, 
(besides  Clare-Hall  in  Cambridge,  where  this  charter  is  extant,) 
Thomas  Rudbum,  and  John  Rouse  of  Warwick.  I  did  not  engage 
with  any  earnestness  for  the  charter :  per  me  si  non  wdeat,  taleaL 
Yet  let  me  add,  that  the  following  arguments  of  the  Animadvertor 
are  so  &r  from  shattering,  they  do  not  shake,  the  credit  thereof. 

Dr.  Hetlin. — But  yet  I  hare  another  objection  which  he  takes  no 
notice  of,  because  not  so  easy  to  be  answered ;  which  is,  that  Frith*- 
Stan  (whatsoever  he  was)  is  here  honoured  with  the  degree  of  Doctor, 
and  the  title  of  Chancellor.  But,  First,  I  would  fain  know  where 
Frithstan  took  the  degree  of  Doctor,  and  in  what  ^Eumlty  he  took  it ; 
that  title  in  those  early  days  being  so  unusual,  as  hardly  to  be  found 
amongst  the  attributes  of  the  leamedest  men.  Secondly.  I  conceive 
it  to  be  very  hard,  I  had  almost  said  impossible,  for  him  to  prove,  that 
the  chief  officer  of  Cambridge  (admitting  it  at  that  time  for  a  place  of 
learning)  had  the  name  of  Chancellor.  When  I  shall  see  some  proof 
of  this,  and  some  satisfaction,  I  shall  give  some  credit  to  the  charter ; 
till  then,  none  at  all. 

FuLLEE. — The  name  of  Doctor  is  threefold.  First.  For  a 
teacher  at  large,  extant  in  scripture  :  "  Art  thou  a  Doctor  in  Israel, 
and  knowest  not  these  things  ?  ^  John  iii.  10. 

Secondly.  As  a  title  of  dignity  fixed,  by  a  society  of  learned 
men,  on  some  eminent  person  amongst  them. 

Thirdly.  For  one  solemnly  and  ceremoniously  graduated  by  a 
Professor  in  some  particular  faculty  ;  and  the  word  in  this  sense  is 
not  of  so  great  seniority. 

I  take  Doctor  in  this  charter  in  the  second  acceptation  thereof. 

And  here  I  cannot  but  commend  the  wariness  of  the  Animad- 
vertor's  words,  that  "the  title  of  Doctor  is  hardly  to 4)e  found  in 
those  early  days.''  He  hath  read  the  rule  of  grammarians  :  Qttod 
fere  fit^  non  fit ;  quod  xix  fihfit ;  '*  What  is  almost  done,  is  not 
done  ;  what  is  scarcely  or  hardly  done,  is  done.'^  He  knew  that  the 
title  of  Doctor  began  to  come  into  request  in  that  age. 

Thus  Bale  and  Pits,  (but  both  of  them,  as  they  confess,  taking 
their  word  from  a  better  antiquary,  J.  Leland,)  writing  of  Brid- 
fertus,  contemporary  with  our  Frithstan  in  the  same  generation, 
dying  about  the  year  980 :  Monachus  et  Doctor  Anglm  in  Comobio 
Humsiensi, 

As  for  the  name  Chancellor,  it  was  (as  in  sir  H.  Spelman's 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


410  APP£AL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

f  <  Glosiaiy  ^  doth  appear)  used^  at  and  before  thU  time,  by  tb) 
Saxons,  for  a  prime  officer,  (though  genersdly  the  secretary,)  and 
therefore  no  such  improbability  that  the  chief  of  Cambridge  might 
be  so  denominated.     Our  author  proceeds : — 

51.  Dr.  Hetlin. — ^*  Cambridgeshire-men  claim  an  ancient  (now 
antiquated)  priyilege,  to  lead  the  yan  in  all  battles."  (Ch.  Hist.  toL  i. 
p.  214.)  Zealous  alike,  not  only  for  the  University,  but  the  county, 
of  Cambridge ;  his  zeal  in  both  transporting  him  beyond  his  know- 
ledge into  dark  adventures.  Some  authors  he  pretends  to,  for  the 
University;  for  this  privilege,  none, — ^telling  us  only  that  be  hath 
read  it,  though  he  know  not  where.  But  I  can  tell  him  when  and 
where  I  have  read  the  contrary ;  that  is  to  say,  in  learned  Camden, 
who  ascribes  this  honour  to  the  Kentish.  For  this  he  cites  not  only 
the  authority  of  a  nameless  monk,  but  the  words  of  Johannes  Sam^ 
buriensis  in  his  Polycraiieon^  which  bie  these  that  follow  :  ^  For  good 
desert,"  saith  he,  ^^  of  that  notable  valour  which  Kent  showed  so  piiis- 
santly  and  patiently  against  the  Danes,  it  retaineth  still  unto  these 
days  in  all  battles  the  first  and  fove-ward,  yea,  and  of  the  first  conflict 
with  the  enemy."  •  And  if  this  privilege  was  given  the  Kentish  for 
their  valour  showed  against  the  Danes,  it  could  neither  be  given  to  the 
men  of  Cambridgeshire,  as  our  author  would,  nor  on  the  same  occasion 
as  he  saith  it  was. 

FiTLL£R.-«»I  have  read,  that  wh^,  at  the  taking  of  a  city  by 
the  Romans,  two  soldiers  contended  for  the  crown-mural,  (each 
pleading  he  first  scaled  the  walls,)  that  the  general  caused  two 
crowns-mural  to  be  made ;  affirming,  that,  on  serious  examination 
of  all  circumstances,  both  appeared  to  him  mounting  the  walls  in 
the  same  moment ;  and  so,  rewarding  them  both,  prevented  a 
mutiny  of  part-taking  in  the  army. 

This  controversy  is  not  capable  of  the  same  expedient,  seeing 
one  cannot  make  two  vans  at  once  in  the  same  army,  yet  may  we 
distinguish  of  several  times,  and  accommodate  the  contest. 

King  Arthur,  in  his  time,  gave  the  conduct  of  the  front  to  the 
Cornish  :— 

NobiUs  Arthurus  nobis  dat  primiius  ictum»  t 

Cambridgeshire  might  afterwards  have  that  honour  conferred  on 
them :  the  words  of  Brirapton,  though  not  cleaving  the  pin,  touch 
the  mark  in  this  point :  Undky  Anglis  regnantibus^  laus  Cantabri- 
giensU  provinciw  splendid^  Jlorebdt,  J 

Yet  the  dignity  being  but  temporary,  and  disposable  at  the 
jprince's  pleasure,  in  reward  of  new  services,  the  Kentish  had  it 
afterward  bestowed  on  them,  and  for  a  long  time  enjoyed  it.  Our 
author  proceeds  :—  " 

•  Camden,  in  Kent,  p.  324.  -f  Carew,  m  ComwaU.         J  Chronkon,  p.  88/". 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTOIty,  BOOK  II.      411 

52.  Db.  HsTLiN.-^*^  It  did  not.  afterwards  embold^  himta  tli# 
anticipation  of  the  crown,-^attending  till  it  descended  upon  him  * 
(Ck  Hist.  vol.  L  p.  21 70  He  speaks  this  of  king  Edward  the  Confessor, 
who,  had  he  tarried  ^^till  the  crown  had  descended  on  him,"  might 
possibly  have  found  a  place  amongst  the  Confessors,  but  not  amongst 
the  kings,  of  England.  For  the  truth  is,  the  right  title  to  the  crown 
was  at  that  time  in  Edward  sumamed  "  the  outlaw,"  the  eldest  son  of 
Edmund  Ironside,  who,  flying  into  Hungary  to  avoid  the  fury  of  the 
Danes,  married  the  king's  sister  of  that  country,  and  was  by  her  the 
father  of  Edgar  Atheling,  and  of  Margaret,  wife  to  Malcolm  Con« 
mor  king  of  the  Scots.  But,  these  being  absent  at  that  time,  Emma, 
the  mother  of  prince  Edward,  and  widow  to  Canutus  the  Dane,  took 
the  opportunity  to  set  her  son  upon  the  throne,  as  being  not  only 
half-brother  to  king  Edmund  Ironside,  but  also  half-brother,  and 
consequently  nearest  kinsman,  to  Canutus  II. ;  which,  if  it  were  a 
good  descent,  will  plead  almost  as  strongly  for  king  Hiirold  as  it  did 
for  him. 

FutLEB. — My  words  are  true,  and  not  subject  to  just  exception, 
^vhich  I  confined  only  to  king  Edward's  relation  to  his  own  brc« 
thren.  The  legend  of  his  Life  reports  him  to  be  crowned,  when 
unborn,  in  his  mother's  belly,  and  having  six  elder  brethren  by  the 
same  father,  king  Ethelred : — 1.  Ethelstan,  2.  Egbert,  3.  Edmond, 
4.  Edred,  5.  Edwy,  6.  Edgar.  Some  of  which  came  to  the 
crown,  others  died  in  their  minority.  King  Edward  (though  thus 
pre-crowned)  did  not  endeavour  to  antedate  his  possession  of  the 
throne  before  his  elder  bretliren,  but  waited  till  the  title  (as  it  was 
derived  unto  him  from  his  father)  "  descended  on  him.'"  Other- 
wise I  advocate  not  for  him,  if  he  took  it  from  any  other,  who  had 
more  right  to  it  than  himself. 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^But,  by  what  means  soever  he  got  the  crown,  he 
deserved  to  wear  it. 

Fuller. — I  cannot  cordially  close  with  the  Animadvertor^s 
expression  herein,  bieing  sensible  of  no  desert,  which  in  this  case  is 
not  attended  with  a  true  title.  For  who  shall  judge  of  the  desert 
of  competitors  ?  If  the  person  himself,  then  every  usurper  will 
cry  up  l^is  own  worthiness.  If  his  party,  they  will  make  him 
most  meriting  whom  they  favour  most  in  their  fancies.  This  will 
unsettle  all  states,  cassate  all  titles,  and  cause  much  distraction. 
But  believing  no  ill  at  all  intended  in  these  his  words,  let  U0 
proceed : — 

53,  54.  Db.  Heylin. — Our  author  telling  us,  that  "  whereas  for- 
merly there  were  manifold  laws  in  the  land, — made,  some  by  the 
Britons,  others  by  the  Danes,  others  by  the  English,  &c.  he  caused 
loms  few  of  the  best  to  be  selected,  and  the  rest,  as  captious  an^ 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


412  Al^^EAL  O^  INJI/RED  INNOCfiNCJtf.  :^ART  IL 

mmecessaiy,  to  be  rejected ;  from  whence  tbey  hoA  the  name  of  the 
Common  Laws."  (Ch.  Hist.  rol.  i.  p.  217.)  That  the  Common  Lair 
was  so  called,  because  compounded  of  the  Saxon,  British,  and  Danish 
laws,  which  were  before  of  force  only  in  such  places  where  the  Danes, 
Britons,  and  Saxons  had  the  greatest  swaj ;  though  it  be  easj  to  he 
said,  will  be  hard  to  be  proTed.  The  Britons  at  that  time  lired  under 
their  own  princes,  and  were  governed  by  their  own  laws,  and  so  thejr 
were  for  a  long  time  after;  so  that  king  Edward,  having  no  dominion 
.  over  them,  could  not  impose  a  law  upon  them.  Nor  was  it  probahle 
that  he  should  borrow  any  of  their  laws,  or  impose  them  on  his  natural 
subjects,  considering  the  antipathy  and  disaffection  betwixt  the  nations. 
There  were  indeed  at  that  time  in  England  three  kinds  of  laws :  the 
First  called  Dane^lagCy  or  "  the  Danish  laws,"  prevailing  for  the  most 
part  in  the  kingdom  of  the  East  Angles  and  that  of  Northumberland : 
Secondly.  Saxon^lagCy  used  generally  in  the  kingdoms  of  the  West 
Saxons,  East  Saxons,  South  Saxons,  and  that  of  Kent :  and.  Thirdly, 
Mercen-lage^  extending  over  all  the  provinces  of  the  kingdom  of 
Mercia.  As  for  the  Britons  of  Cornwall  and  Cumberland,  they  had  no 
distinct  law  for  themselves,  (as  had  those  of  Wales,)  but  were  governed 
by  the  laws  of  that  nation  unto  which  they  were  subject  By  these 
t|iree  sorts  of  laws  were  these  nations  governed  in  their  several  and 
respective  limits;  which,  being  afterwards  reduced  into  one  body, 
and  made  common  equally  to  all  the  subjects,  did  worthily  deserve  the 
name  of  the  "  Common  Law."  But,  Secondly,  I  dare  not  give  the 
honour  of  this  action  to  king  Edward  the  Confessor.  The  great  Jus- 
tinian in  this  work  was  another  Edward,  called,  for  distinction's  sake, 
king  Edward  the  elder,  who  began  his  reign  anno  900,  almost  a 
hundred  and  Mij  years  before  this  Confessor,  to  whom  our  author 
hath  ascribed  it.  But  the  truth  is,  that  these  laws  being  suppressed 
by  the  Danish  kings,  who  governed  either  in  an  arbitrary  way,  or  by 
laws  of  their  own  country,  they  were  revived  and  re-inforced  in  the 
time  of  this  Edward,  from  whence  they  had  the  name  of  "  Edward 
the  Confessor  s  laws,"  and  by  that  name  were  sued  and  fought  for  in 
the  time  succeeding ;  of  which  more  hereafter.  Now  as  this  work  may 
be  ascribed  to  his  love  to  justice ;  so  from  his  piety,  his  successors 
derive  as  great  a  benefit  of  caring  the  disease  which  from  thence  is 
called  the  King's  Evil,  which  some  impute  (as  our  author  tells  us)  to 
secret  and  hidden  causes. 

Fuller. — This  long  note  might  well  have  been  boiled  down 
from  a  gallon  to  a  gill,  to  make  it  more  cordial.  If  the  reader  can 
pick  any  information  but  of  it,  much  good  may  it  do  him.  Let 
the  honour  of  so  good  a  deed,  with  all  my  heart,  be  parted  betwixt 
the  two  Edwards, — one  the  beginner,  the  other  the  finisher  thereof. 
Our  author  proceeds : — 

55.  Dr.  Hevlin.— "  Others  ascribe  it  to  the  power  of  fancy  and  an 
exalted  imagination/'    (Ch.  Hist,  vol,  i.  p.  224.)      Amongst  which 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH^HISTORY,  BOOK  11.       413 

*^  others,"  I  may  reckon  our  author  for  one ;  he  had  not  else  so  strongly 
pleaded  in  defence  thereof.  But  certainly  nvhat  effect  soerer  the 
strength  of  ^^  fancy  and  an  exalted  imagination^"  as  our  author  calls  it, 
may  produce  in  those  of  riper  years,  it  can  contribute  nothing  to  the 
cure  of  children.  And  I  hare  seen  some  children  brought  before  the 
king  by  the  hanging  sleeves,  some  hanging  at  their  mothers'  breasts,  and 
others  in  the  arms  of  their  nurses,  all  touched  and  cured  \?ithout  the 
help  of  any  such  fancies  or  imaginations  as  our  author  speaks  of. 

Fuller. — If  I  be  reckoned  amongst  them,  I  am  mis-reckoned ; 
for  though  I  conceive  fancy  may  much  conduce,  in  adultU^  there- 
unto, yet  I  believe  it  partly  miraculous,  as  may  appear  by  my  last 
and  largest  insisting  thereon.  I  say  partly ^  because  a  complete 
miracle  is  done  presently  and  perfectly ;  whereas  this  cure  is  gene- 
rally advanced  by  degrees,  and  some  days  interposed. 

56,  57.  Dr.  Hetlin. — Others  less  charitably  condemn  this  cure  as 
guilty  of  superstition,  quarrelling  at  the  circumstances  and  ceremonies 
whidi  are  used.  And  this  they  do,  saith  he,  ^^  either  displeased  at 
the  Collect,  (consisting  of  the  first  nine  verses  of  the  Gospel  of  St. 
John,)  as  wholly  improper,  and  nothing  relating  to  the  occasion,"  &c. 
(Oh.  Hist  vol.  i.  p.  225.)  Our  author  tells  us,  more  than  once,  of  his 
being  "  a  Clerk  of  the  Convocation ; "  (vol.  iii.  pp.  405 — 41 1 ;)  but  I 
find  by  this,  that  he  never,  came  so  high  as  to  be  *^  Clerk  of  the 
Closet." 

Fuller. — I  never  was  (nor  the  Animadvertor  neither)  "  Clerk 
of  the  Closet :  ^  fwn  tanto  me  digndr  honore.  But  I  have  had  the 
honour  to  see  the  king  solemnly  heal  in  the  choir  of  the  cathedral 
of  Salisbury ;  though,  being  so  long  since,  I  cannot  recover  aU 
particulars. 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^Which  had  he  been,  he  would  not  have  mistaken 
the  Gospel  for  a  Collect;  or  touched  upon  that  Gospel  which  is  less 
material,  wittout  insisting  on  the  other  which  is  more  pertipent  and 
proper  to  the  work  in  hand ;  or  suffered  the  displeased  party  to  remain 
imsatisfied  about  the  sign  of  the  cross  made  by  the  royal  hands  on  the 
place  infected,  (as  it  after  foUoweth,)  when  there  is  no  such  crossing 
used  in  that  sacred  ceremony ;  the  king  only  gently  drawing  both  his 
hands  over  the  sore  at  the  reading  of  the  first  Gospel. 

Fuller. — I  fully  satisfy  the  displeased  party  (if  he  be  not 
through  weakness  nor  wilfulness  incapable  thereof)  about  the  sign  of 
the  cross,  in  those  my  words  immediately  following : — "  All  which 
exceptions  &11  to  the  ground  when  it  shall  be  avowed,  that  the 
king's  bare  hands,  notwithstanding  the  omission  of  such  ceremonies^ 
bave  effected  the  healing.'*' 
Take  it,  pray,  as  since  it  is  set  down  in  more  ample  nlanncr  in  a 


Digitized  by 


Google 


414  APPEAL  OF  INJURBD  IiVNOCENCE.  PART  U. 

late  book  ;♦  Trhidi  I  know  not  whether  it  be  more  learned  in  itself 
or  usefiil  to  others : — ? 

"  All  along  king  Edward  VI.  and  queen  Elizabeth's  reign,  when 
the  strumosiy  such  as  had  the  king's  evil,  came  to  be  touched,  the 
manner  was  then,  for  her  to  apply  the  sign  of  the  cross  to  the 
tumour  if  which  raising  a  cause  of  jealousies,  as  if  some  mysterious 
operation  were  imputed  to  it,  that  wise  and  learned  king,  not  only 
(with  his  son  the  late  king)  practically  discontinued  it,  but  ordered 
it  to  be  expunged  out  of  the  prayers  relating  to  the  cure,  which 
ha&  proceeded  as  effectually,  that  omission  notwithstanding,  as  ever 
hehter 

58.  Dr.  Hetlix. — But  that  both  he  and  others  may  be  satisfied  in 
these  particulars,  I  have  thought  fit  to  lay  down  the  whole  form  of 
prayers  and  readings  used  in  the  healing  of  that  malady  in  this  manner 
following  :— 

THE  PORM   OP  THJS  SERVICE  AT  THE  HEALING  OP  THE   KING's  BVH. 

The  first  Gospel  is  exactly  the  same  with  that  on  Ascension  day. 
At  the  touching  of  every  infirm  person,  these  words  are  repeated, 
**  They  shall  lay  their  hands  on  the  sick,  and  they  shall  recover." 

The  second  Gospel  begins  the  first  of  St.  John,  and  ends  atihese 
words,  "  Full  of  grace  and  truth."  At  the  putting  the  angel  about 
their  necks  were  repeated,  ^^  That  {jight  was  the  true  Light,  which 
lighteth  every  man  that  cometh  into  tiie  world." 

**  Lord,  have  mercy  upon  us. 

"  Christ,  have  mercy  upon  us. 

"  Lord,  have  mercy  upon  us. 

*'  Our  Father  which  art  in  heaven,  hallowed  be  thy  name,  &c. 

"  Minister. — 0  Lord,  save  thy  servants, 

"  ^«ifn;er.— Which  put 'their  trust  in  thee. 

"  Minist^.^-^nd  unto  them  help  from  above, 

"  Answer, — And  evermore  mightily  defend  them.         * 

"  MtnM^er.^^Help  us,  O  God  our  Saviour ; 

"  AnsTver, — And  for  the  glory  of  thy  name's  sake  deliver  us,  1* 
merciful  unto  us  sinners  for  thy  name's  sake. 

"  Minister. -^O  Lord,  bear  our  prayer ; 

"  Answer. — And  let  our  cry  come  unto  thee.** 

THE   COLLECT. 

"  Almighty  God,  the  eternal  Health  of  all  such  as  put  their  trust  in 
thee,  hear  us,  we  beseech  Ijiee,  on  the  behalf  of  these  thy  servants,  for 
whom  we  call  for  l3iy  merciftd  help,  that  they  receiving  health  may 

;   •  ?H.  LE  STBA.M3K,  "  AlKances  of  Diyin©  .Oifice»/'  pnge  26Q,  t  As  »ppeaw  » 

Dr.  Tucker's  ChaHtma,  page  109.  ' 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Animadversions  on  the  church-history,  book  ii.     415 

give  thanks  unto  thee  m  thy  holy  church,  through  Jesus  Christ  our 
Lord,    Atoen." 

"The  peace  of  God,"  &c. 

This  is  the  whole  fonn,  against  which  nothing  is  ohjected,  hut  the 
using  of  the  words  hefore-mentioned  at  the  putting-on  of  the  angel* 
the  pertinency  whereof  may  appear  to  any  who  consider  that  "  the 
tight  which  was  the  true  Light,  and  lighteUi  every  man  which  cometh 
into  the  world,"  did  not  shine  more  visibly,  at  the  least  more  comfort- 
ably, upon  the  people,  than  in  the  healing  of  so  many  sick,  infirm,  and 
leprous  persons,  as  did  from  time  to  time  receive  the  benefit  of  it.  But 
it  is  time  I  should  proceed. 

Puller. — I  perceive  by  this  Office,  that  I  have  mistaken  the 
Gospel  for  the  Collect ;  which  in  the  next  edition  (God  willing) 
shall  be  rectified.     Our  author  proceeds  :— 

59.  Dr.  Heylin — "These  chose  Harold  to  be  king;  whose  title 
to  the  crown  is  not  worth  our  deriving  of  it,  much  less  his  relying  on 
it."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  229.)  A  title  not  so  despicable  as  our  author 
makes  it,  nor  much  inferior  unto  that  by  which  his  predecessor 
obtained  the  kingdom.  Harold,  being  son  to  Earl  Gt)dwin,  (the  most 
potent  man  of  all  the  Saxons.)  b}  Tbeyra,  the  natural  daughter  of 
Oanutus  the  first,  was  consequen  brother  by  the  whole  blood  to 
Harold  Harfagar,  and  brother  by  the  half-blood  to  Oanutus  the  second, 
the  two  last  Danish  kings  of  England.  In  which  respect  being  of 
^toR  toicestry  by  his  father,  and  of  the  Danish  royal  blood  by  his 
mother,  he  might  be  looked  on  as  l^e  fittest  person  in  that  conjunc*- 
iure'to  eonUiA  both  nations.  But,  whatsoever  his  title  was,  it  was 
undoubted  better  than  that  of  the  Norman,  had  either  his  success 
been  answerable,  or  his  sword  as  good. 

Fuller. — It  was  "a  despicable  title,"  even  after  the  Animad- 
vertor  hath  befriended  it  with  his  most  advantageous  representing 
thereof, — ^1.  From  his  father.  Earl  Godwin,  the  most  potent  man 
of  Saxon  ancestry.  2.  From  his  mother,  Theyra,  the  natural 
slaughter  of  Canutus  the  first. 

As  to  his  paternal  title,  if  his  fiither'^s  potency  was  all  can  be 
alleged  for  it,  any  oppressor  hath  the  same  right. 

His  maternal  title,  if  from  Canutus's  natural  (understand 
^e)  daughter,  openeth  a  door  (as  I  may  say)  for  all  who  come  in 
l>y  the  window. 

Besides,  the  Animadvertor  is  much  mistaken  in  the  name  of  his 
mother,  seeing  Mr.  Camden  saith,  E  Githd  Suenmis  regis  Danici 
iorore  natm  fuit :  *  "  He  was  bom  of  Githa,  sister  to  Sweno  king 
of  Denmark.'' 

•  Britan.  LaU  pag.  104. 

/Google 


Digitized  by  ^ 


416  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  tL 

Dr.  Hktlin. — Upon  oocasion  of  which  Conquest,  our  author  telleth 
us  that  ^^this  was  the  fifth  time  wherein  the  south  of  this  island 
was  conquered:  First  Bj  Romans.  Secondly.  Bj  Picts  and  Scots. 
Thirdly.  Bj  Saxons.  Fourthly.  By  the  Danes.  And,  Fifthly,  by  the 
Normans."  (Ch.  Hist.  toI.  i.  p.  230.)  But  this  I  can  by  no  means 
yield  to ;  the  Scots  and  Picts  not  being  to  be  named  amongst  those 
nations  who  subdued  the  south  part  of  this  island.  That  they  did 
many  times  harass  and  depopulate  the  south  part  of  it,  I  shall  easily 
grant ;  but  to  the  subduing  of  a  country,  there  is  more  required  thaa 
to  waste  and  spoil  it ;  that  is  to  say,  to  fix  their  dwelling  and  abode 
(for  some  time  at  least)  in  the  country  conquered,  to  change  the  laws» 
alter  the  language,  or  new-mould  the  goyemment;  or,  finally,  to 
translate  the  sceptre  firom  the  old  royal  family  to  some  one  of  their 
own.  None  of  which  things  being  done  in  the  invasions  of  the  Scots 
and  Picts,  they  cannot  properly  be  said  to  hare  ^^  subdued "  the  south 
parts  of  the  island,  as  our  author,  out  of  lore  perhaps  to  the  Scots, 
would  persuade  the  reader. 

Fuller. — I  confess,  of  all  five,  the  Picts  and  Scots  had  the 
most  short  and  uncertain  abode  in  the  south.  The  distinction  is 
very  nice,  betwixt  harassing  or  depopulating  of  a  country  and 
subduing  it.  If  I  could  but  harass  and  depopulate  (that  is^  but 
de-argummtatej  the  Animadvertor's  book  against  me,  I  doubt  not 
but  I  should  be  accounted  to  subdue  it. 

Why  is  not  my  pen  charged  with  a  love  to  the  Picts,  whom  I 
also,  equally  with  the  Scots,  entitle  to  this  subduing  ?  And  is  a 
nation,  now  no  where  extant,  to  be  the  object  of  my  afiTection  ? 

But  this  five-times'  subduing  of  the  south  of  this  island,  is  in  all 
authors  as  generally  known  and  received,  as  that  a  man  hath  five 
fingers  on  his  hand.  Wherefore  no  more  in  answer  to— just 
nothing. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AMMADVEBSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY 


BOOK  III. 

r«OM    THE    TIME    OF    THE    NORMAN   CONaUEST,^ 
PREACHING    OP    WICKLIFFE. 

60.  Dr.  Heyun. — ^Wb  are  aow  come  unto  the  times  of  the  Nor- 
man goremment,  when  the  church  hegan  to  settle  on  a  surer  hottom 
both  for  power  and  polity ;  the  bishops  less  obnoxious  to  the  kings 
than  formerly,  because  elected  bj  the  monks  and  canons  of  their  own 
cathedrals ;  their  Consistories  free  from  the  intermixture  of  lay-assist- 
ance, and  their  Synods  managed  by  themselves.  Wherein  though  they 
tad  power  of  making  such  synodical  Constitutions  as  did  ipso  facto 
bind  all  parties,  yet  our  Author  is  resolved  to  hare  it  otherwise. 

Fuller. — ^All  this  is  but  prefatory,  and,  therefore,  my  answer 
not  necessary  thereunto.  The  Aniraadvertor  seemeth  to  congratu- 
late the  condition  of  the  English  church,  as  better  hereafter  in  the 
following,  than  in  foregoing,  ages. 

He  instanceth  in  two  particulars,  power  and  polity,  omitting 
a  third,  (worth  both,)  piety,  (to  which  purity  in  doetrine  may  be 
reduced,)  which  now  began  more  and  more  to  be  impaired. 

Let  me  add,  that,  after  the  kings  of  England  had  parted  (which, 
indeed,  was  wrested  from  them)  with  the  investing  of  bishops, 
bishops  became  less  manageable  by,  and  dutiful  to,  their  prince,  and 
more  insulting  over  the  people;  and  being  "less  obnoxious''  (to 
use  the  Animadvertor's  word)  to  the  sovereign,  were  more  noxious 
to  the  subjects.    Our  author  proceeds  :— 

61,  62.  Dr.  Heylw — "  The  proceedings,"  saith  he,  "  of  the  canon 
law  were  never  wholly  received  into  practice  in  the  land ;  but  so  as 
ittade  subject,  in  whatsoever  touched  temporals,  to  secular  laws  and 
Rational  customs.  And  the  laity  at  pleasure  limited  canons  in  this 
behair  (Ch.  Hist  vol  i.  p.  290.)  How  false  this  is,  how  contrary  to 
the  power  and  practice  of  the  church  before  the  submission  of  the 
clei^  to  king  Henry  VIII. ;  and,  finally,  how  dangerous  a  ground  is 
hereby  laid  to  weaken  the  authority  of  Convocations,  will  best  appear 

y  laying  down  the  sum  of  a  petition  presented  by  the  House  of  Com- 
"ions  to  the  same  king  Henry,  together  with  the  answer  of  the  pre- 
ates  and  inferior  clergy,  then  being  synodically  assembled,  to  the  said 
petition. 

The  substance  of  ihe  petition  was  as  followeth :  namely, — 
^      ihat  the  clergy  of  this  your  realm,  being  your  highness's  subjects, 
>a  their  Convocation  by  them  holden  within  this  your  realm,  have 

^  e,  and  daily  make,  divers  sanctions  or  laws  concerning  tempord 

'      E    E      -    •     ■      • 


Digitized  by 


Google 


418  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  11. 

things,  and  some  of  them  he  repugnant  to  the  laws  and  statutes  of 
your  reahn,  not  having  ne  requiring  your  most  royal  assent  to  the 
same  laws  so  hy  them  made,  nother  any  assent  or  knowledge  of  your 
lay  subjects  is  had  to  the  same,  nother  to  them  published  and  known 
in  their  mother  tongue,  albeit  dirers  and  sundry  of  the  said  laws 
extend  in  certain  causes  to  your  exceUent  person,  your  liberty  and  pre- 
rogatiye  royal,  and  to  the  interdiction  of  your  laws  and  possessions, 
and  so  likewise  to  the  goods  and  possessions  of  your  lay  subjects, 
declaring  the  infringers  of  the  same  laws  so  by  them  made,  not  only 
to  incur  the  terrible  censure  of  excommunication,  but  also  to  the 
detestable  crime  and  sin  of  heresie,  by  the  which  dirers  of  your  hum- 
ble and  obedient  lay  subjects  be  broiight  into  this  ambigiiity,  whether 
they  may  doe  and  execute  your  laws  according  to  your  jurisdiction 
royal  of  this  realm,  for  dread  of  the  same  censures  and  pains  com- 
prised in  the  same  laws  so  by  them  made  in  their  ConTocations,  to  the 
great  trouble  and  inquietation  of  your  said  humble  and  obedient  lay 
subjects,  &c.,  the  impeachment  of  your  jurisdiction  and  prarogatire 
royal."* 

The  answer  thereunto  was  this  i-^ 

"To  this  we  say,  that  forasmuch  as  we  repute  and  take  our  autho- 
rity of  making  laws  to  be  grounded  upon  the  scripture  (^  CUkI,  and 
the  determination  of  holy  church,  which  must  also  be  a  rule  and  squier 
to  try  the  justice  and  righteousnesse  of  all  laws,  as  well  spiritual  as 
temporal ;  we  verily  trust,  that,  considering  the  laws  of  this  realm  be 
such  as  have  been  made  by  most  Christian,  religious,  and  devout 
princes  and  people,  how  both  these  laws  proceeding  from  one  fountain, 
the  same  being  sincerely  interpreted,  and  after  the  good  meaning  of  the 
makers,  there  shall  be  found  no  repugnancy,  nor  contrariety,  but  that  the 
one  shall  be  found  as  aiding,  maintaining,  and  supporting  the  other. 
And  if  it  shall  otherwise  appear,  as  it  is  our  duty  (whereunto  we  shall 
alwayes  most  diligently  apply  our  selves)  to  reform  our  ordinances  to 
God*s  commission,  and  to  conform  our  statutes  and  laws,  and  those 
of  our  predecessors,  to  the  determination  of  scripture  and  ht>ly  church ; 
so  we  hope  in  God,  and  shall  daily  pray  for  the  same,  that  your  high- 
nesse  will,  if  there  appear  cause  why,  with  the  assent  of  your  people, 
temper  your  Grace's  laws  accordingly.  Whereby  shall  ensue  a  most 
happy  and  perfect  conjunction  and  agreement,  as  God  being  hpU 
angularisy  to  agree  and  conjoyn  the  same.  And  as  concerning  the 
requiring  of  your  highnesse  royal  assent  to  the  authority  of  such  laws 
as  have  been  by  our  predecessors,  or  shall  be  made  by  us  in  such  points 
and  articles  as  we  have  by  God's  authority  to  rule  and  order  by  such 
provisions  and  laws ;  we  knowing  your  highness'  wisdome,  and  vertue, 
and  learning,  nothing  doubt  but  the  same  perceiveth  how  the  granting 
hereunto  dependeth  not  upon  our  will  and  liberty.  And  that  we  your 
most  humble  subjects  may  not  submit  the  execution  of  our  charge  and 
duty  certainly  prescribed  by  God,  to  your  highnesse  assent,  although  in 

•  "  Acts  of  Convocation/*  anno  1532. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


t 
AMIMADVEBSIONS  OaN  THK  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  III.      41Q 

rery  deed  the  same  is  moet  worthy  for  yonr  most  noble,  princely,  and  ex- 
celknt  Tortttes,  not  onely  to  giro  your  royal  assent,  but  also  to  devise  and 
eommand  what  we  shoidd  for  good  order  and  manners  by  statutes  and 
laws  paroTide  in  ihe  chnnA ;  nererthele^se  considering  we  may  not  so  ne 
in  such  sort  refrain  the  doing  of  our  office  in  the  feeding  and  ruling  of 
Olmst's  people  your  Grace's  subjects ;  we  most  humbly  desiring  your 
Gmee  as*  the  same  haA  heretofore,  ao  from  henceforth  to  shew  your 
Graee'a  minde  and  opinion  unto  us,  what  your  high  wisdome  shall 
think  conveiiienl,  which  we  shall  most  gladly  hear  and  follow,  if  it 
shall  please  U-od  to  inspire  us  so  to  doe,  with  all  submission  and 
humility  beseech  the  same,  fudlowing  the  steps  of  your  most  noble 
progenit^^  and  conformaUy  to  your  our  own  acts  doe  muntain  and 
defend  such  larws,  and  ordinances,  as  we,  according  to  our  calling  and 
by  authority  of  God,  shall,  for  his  honour,  make  to  the  edification  of 
vertue,  and  maintaining  Christ's  faith,  of  which  your  highnesse  is 
named  defender,  and  hath  been  fiitherto  indeed  a  special  protector. 

'^  Furthermore,  whereas  your  said  lay  subjects  say,  that  sundry  of 
the  said  laws  extend  in  certain  causes  to  your  excellent  person,  your 
liberty  and  prerogatire  royal,  and  to  the  interdiction  of  your  land  and 
possessions :  to  this  your  said  orators  say,  that  haying  submitted  the 
tryal  and  examining  of  the  laws  made  in  the  church  by  us  and  our 
predecessors,  te  the  just  and  straight  rule  of  God's  laws,  which  giveth 
measaie  of  power,  prerogative,  and  authority  to  all  emperors,  kings, 
princes,  and  potoitates,  and  all  other ;  we  haye  conceired  such  opinion, 
and  h^ve  sucli  estimation  of  your  majestie^S  goodnesse  and  rertue^ 
that  wbatsoereo:  any  persons  not  so  well  leanied  as  your  Grace  is, 
would  pretend  unto  th^  same,  whereby  we  your  most  humble  subject^ 
may  be  brought  in  your  Grace's  displeasure  and  indignation,  surmis- 
ing that  we  should,  by  usurpation  tmd  presumption,  extend  our  laws 
to  your  most  noble  person,  prerogative,  and  realm,  yet  the  same  your 
highnesse  being  so  highly  learned,  will  of  your  own  most  bounteous 
goodnesse  £aciily  discharge  and  deliver  us  from  that  envy,  when  it  shall 
appear  that  the  sud  laws  are  made  by  us,  or  our  predecessors,  con- 
fonnable  and  maintainable  by  the  scripture  of  God,  and  determination 
of  the  church,  against  which  no  laws  can  stand  or  take  effect." 

Somewhat  to  this  purpose  had  been  before  endeavoured  by  the  Com- 
mons in  the  last  Parliament  of  king  Edward  III. ;  of  which,  because 
they  got  nothing  by  it,  but  only  the  showing  of  their  teeth  without  hurt- 
ing anybody,  I  sh«aU  say  nothing  in  this  place,  reserving  it  to  the  time  of 
the  Long  Parliament,  in  the  reign  of  king  Charles,  when  this  point 
^vas  more  hotly  followed,  and  more  powerfully  prosecuted,  than  ever 
formerly. 

What  says  our  author  unto  this  ?  Finds  he  here  any  such  matter, 
as  that  "  the  laity  at  their  pleasure  could  limit  the  canons  of  the 
church  ? "  Or  that  sudi  canons  '^  in  whatsoever  touched  temporals 
were  suliject  unto  secular  laws  and  national  customs?"  (Ch.  Hist. 
▼ol.  i.  p.  290.)    And  hereof  I  desire  the  reader  to  take  special  notice, 

2  E  2 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgie 


420  APPEAt  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

as  that  which  is  to  serve  for  a  catholicon^  at  *^  general  antidote  "  against 
those  many  renemoos  insinuations,  which  he  shall  meet  with  up  and 
down  in  the  coarse  of  this  History.  As  for  the  case  in  which  our 
author  grounds  this  pestilent  position,  it  was  the  canon  made  in  a 
sjnod  at  Westminster,  in  Hke  time  of  Anselm,  anno  1102,  prohibiting 
^'  the  sale  of  men  and  wmnen  like  brute  beasts  in  the  open  market:" 
which  canon,  not  finding  presentlj  an  universal  obedience  over  all  the 
kingdom,  (as  certainly  ill  customs  are  not  easily  left,  when  they  are 
countenanced  by  profit,)  occasioned  our  author  to  adrentare  upon  this 
bold  assertion. 

Fuller. — I  conceived  it  uncivil  to  interrupt  the  Animadvertor 
in  his  long  discourse  until  he  had  ended  it ;  and  now  profess,  I 
know  not  how  it  maketh  in  opposition  to  what  I  said,  and  heartilj 
wish  that  the  reader  may  understand  it  better  than  I  do. 

It  cannot  be  denied,  but  that  the  clergy  did  claim  and  challenge 
a  power^  and  sometimes  de  facto  executed  it,  over  the  temporal 
estates  of  the  laity ; — ^for  I  behold  the  clergy  more  bound  (because 
binding  themselves  by  their  representatives)  xmto  their  canons  ;— 
yet  they  never  peaceably  enjoyed  their  power,  as  constantly  decked 
and  controlled  by  the  laws  of  the  land,  in  such  things  wherein  the 
temporal  estate,  life,  and  limb  of  persons  were  concerned. 

We  have  an  eminent  instance  hereof,  in  the  canon  occasioning 
this  discourse,  Anselm  makes  a  Constitution,  (and  that,  indeed, 
charitable  and  Christian,)  '*  against  the  sale  of  men  and  women  like 
brute  beasts  in  the  open  market-pliace.'**  Now,  such  persons  sold 
(slaves  and  vassals,  as  I  understand  it)  being  the  goods  and  chattels 
of  their  masters,  the  proprietaries  and  owners  of  their  bodies,  thej 
would  not  part  with  their  right  in  obedience  to  the  canon. 

Suppose  a  Convocation,  some  thirty  years  ago,  should  have  maae 
a  Canon,  without  any  confirmation  from  Parliament,  "That  no 
merchant  living  in  England  shoidd,  by  his  factors,  sell  any  Negroes 
or  Blacks  in  the  Barbadoes,^  which  formerly  he  bad  bought  m 
Guinea;  it  would  not  oblige  to  the  observation  thereof;  because 
in  such  matters  wherein  property  was  concerned,  the  Canon  must 
say  to  the  Common  Law,  "  By  your  leave,  Sir.'' 

I  have  written  nothing  in  this  point,  but  what  I  have  a  good 
author  for.  And  seeing  the  Animadvertor  in  his  "  Geography  "  hath 
been  pleased  to  tell  a  passage  betwixt  him  and  his  father's  man^ 

•  On  perusing  the  ftoiy  to  wbich  FnUer  here  anodes,  the  reader  wffl  be  induced  to 
consider  Heylin  ap  pleasant  a  gossip  as  the  n^ui  on  whom  he  animadverts  for  the  occa- 
sional exercise  ot  the  same  fecnlty.  This  is  the  atyle  in  which  the  old  Oeogrsp  ^ 
himself  relates  It : —  -  ^^^ . 

«<  In  aU  countries  there  are  many  places,  which  are  fortified  and  made  towns  oi  w-» 
or  otherwise  remarkable  for  some  signal  battle,  in  these  Iftte  bnstles  and  oomiDOtiaitf  ^ 
1^6  Christian  world  ;  of  which  no  notice  hath  been  taken  in  former  tim^i  W^>  ^^^ 
^nently,  not  within  the  compass  of  this  discoorse  :  and  yet^  perhaps,  they  may  ff^^  ** 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


AXIMADVSBSIONS  ON  THE  CHUBCH-HISTORT,  BOOK  III.     421 

kt  me  relate  another,  wherein  myseir  was  concemed,  knowing  it  4o 
be  as  trae^  and  hoping  it  to  be  as  well  applied  :-^ 

Some  three  years  since,  walking  on  the  Lord'^s-day  into  the  park 
at  Copthall,  the  third  son  (a  child  in  coats)  of  the  earl  of  Dorset, 
desired  to  go  with  me ;  whereof  I  was  unwilling,  fearing  he  should 
straggle  from  me  whilst  I  meditated  on  my  sermon ;  and  when  I 
told  him,  that  if  he  went  with  me,  he  would  lose  himself,  he 
returned,  ^^  Then  you  must  lose  yourself  first ;  for  I  will  go  with 
you.'' 

'  This  rule  I  always  observe,  when  meddling  with  matters  of  law : 
because  I  myself  am  a  child  therein,  I  will  ever  go  with  a  roan  in 
that  faculty,  such  as  is  most  eminent  in  his  profession,  a  cujus  latere 
non  disoedam ;  so  that  if  he  lose  me,  he  shall  first  lose  himself,  as 
hereafter,  when  we  grapple  together  in  this  controversy,  will  appear. 
As  for  this  particular  case,  (for  I  will  engage  no  further  for  the 
present,)  this  Canon  did  not  ^dispossess  masters  of  their  property  in 
their  vassals  ;  and  no  meaner  Uian  Mr.  Selden  is  my  conductor 
herein,  styled  hereafter  by  the  Animadvertor,  *'6  wffl  trSv 
cjsTraiSffUftevo^,  that  renowned  humanitian  and  philologer.''  * 

Yea,  I  entered  my,  author  in  the  margin,  (had  the  Animad- 
vertor been  pleased  to  take  notice  thereof,)  Spicileg,  ad  Edmerium^ 
page  208:— 

Neqiie  sani  canon  hic^  aut  alia  apud  nos  lata  lex^  id  juris  AacUnu* 
aded  refixit;  quin  in  juriscamuUorum  nostratium  cammmtariis 
passim  kffibus  quibus  utimur  cansontim  a^nascatur :  *^  Neither  truly 
this  canon,  nor  any  other  law  made  amongst  us,  hath  hitherto 
unfastened  this  right;  but  that,  in  the  comments  (or  reports)  of 
our  common  lawyers,  it  is  acknowledged  consonant  to  those  laws 
which  we  use.''  And  though  in  process  of  time,  first  cansdentiatu 
then  all  masters  laudably  submitted  themselves  to  this  canon,  for- 
bearing such  sales ;  yet  were  they  not  by  the  canon  divested  of  the 

hxa»Tu  and  con«ideraUe,  in  the  times  to  oome,  as  many  of  the  mightier  cities  now 
decayed  and  rained.  He  that  shall  think  the  work  imperfect  for  some  deficiencies  of  this 
kind,  may  he  likened  to  the  coxmtry-fellow  in  Aristophanes,  who  picked  a  great  quairel 
^th  the  map,  hecanse  he  conld  not  find  where  his  own  fiurm  stood.  And  such  a  country* 
tTutomer  I  did  meet  widi  onoe,  a  servant  of  my  elder  hrother's,  sent  hy  him  with  some 
l^OTses  to  Oxon.,  to  bring  me  and  a  friend  of  tninfr  onto  his  honse  ;  who,  having  lost 
^  way  as  we  passed  through  the  Forest  of  ^J^hichwood,  and  not  able  to  recover  any 
^aten  track,  did  very  earnestly  entreat  me  to  lead  the  way  till  I  had  brought  him  past 
the  woods  to  the  open  fields  :  which  when  I  had  refdsed  to  do,  as  I  had  good  reason, 
alleging  that  I  had  never  been  there  before,  and,  therefore,  that  I  could  not  tell  which 
vay  to  lead  him :  Tiai  U  ttrangey  said  he,  /  have  heard  my  aid  waster  your  father  eay^ 
ikatyou  made  a  book  of  all  the  world  ;  and  eannot  youjind  yow  way  out  offhe 
v>ood  f  Which,  being  spoken  out  of  an  honest  simplicity,  not  out  of  any  pretence  to 
^t,  or  the  least  thought  of  putting  a  blunt  jest  upon  me,  occasioned  a  great  deal  of 
merriment  for  a  long  time." — Edit, 
*  Ib  his  Animadversion  on  my  eighth  book,  or  rdgn  of  queen  Mary. 


Digiti 


zed  by  Google 


422  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  ^XBT  II. 

power  of  doing  U^  socb  ireaditio&aad  empiion  being  bj  the  Common 
Law  preserved  unie  tbeiii,  though  now^  verj  coAimendably,  long 
dbused. 

And  whereas  the  elergj,  in  their  answer,  pretend  all  their  canons 
grounded  on  the  word  of  God,  I  would  fain  be  informed  where 
they  find  in  the  New  Testament,  (which  ought  to  regulate  their 
proceedings,)  that  the  power  of  the  church  extendeth  to  life,  limb, 
or  estate.  Sure  I  am  her  censures  appear  spiritual  on  the  soul,  by 
those  expressions,  "  Bind  on  earth,''  Matt.  xvi.  19 ;  "  Cast  out," 
1  John  ix.  34 ;  ''  Deliver  to  Satan,"  1  Cor.  v.  6 ;  &c.  But  because 
the  reader  reserreth  a  larger  prosecution  of  this  point  for  another 
time,  we  will  also  respite  our  larger  answer  thereunto.  Our  author 
proceeds  :— 

63.  Dr.  Hbylin. — "  Indeed,  St.  David's  had  been  Christian  some 
hundred  of  years,  whilst  Canterbury  was  yet  pagan."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  £• 
p.  298.)  Not  many  hundred  years,  I  am  sure  of  that ;  nor  yet  so 
many  as  to  make  a  plural  number  by  the  Latin  grammar ;  Kent  being 
conquered  by  the  Saxons,  who  brought  in  Paganism,  anno  455 ;  con- 
yerted  unto  Christianity  by  the  preaching  of  Austin,  anno  569.  Not 
much  knore  than  one  hundred  and  forty  years  betwixt  the  one  and  the 
other. 

FuLLEE — ^The  Christian  antiquity  of  St.  David's  bare  a  double 
date,  one  native  or  inherent,  the  other  adopted  and  reputative. 

1.  The  inherent^  from  the  time  that  St.  David  fixed  there ;  on 
which  account,  I  believe,  it  was  no  more  than  one  hundred  and 
forty  years  senior  to  Canterbury. 

2.  The  rqmtativey  from  the  first  founding  of  a  bishopric  at 
Caerleon  by  king  Lucius,  which  (indifferently  stated)  was  about 
the  year  of  our  Lord  169;- which  was  four  hundred  years  before 
Canterbury. 

Now,  it  is  notoriously  known,  that  the  antiquity  of  Caerleon, 
(whence  the  see  was  removed,)  in  computation  of  the  seniority,  is 
adjected  to  St.  David's,  her  adopted  daughter. 

Hence  was  it  that  the  abbot  of  Bangor,  in  his  answer  unto 
Austin,*  acknowledged  himself  and  his  convent  under  the  govern- 
ment of  the  bishop  of  Caerleon  upon  Uske,  (though  then  no  bishop 
therein,)  meaning  St.  David's  thereby,  as  Dr.  Hammond  f  and 
others  do  unanimously  allow. 

Thus  grafting  St.  David's  (as  it  ought)  on  the  stock  of  Caerleon, 
it  is  senior  in  Christianity  to  Canterbury  four  hundred  years,  and 
four  may  be  termed  '*  some,"  in  the  strictest  propriety  of  language. 

•  A  record  lately  so  prized  by  tlie  Animadvertor.  t  In  his  account  of  H.  S.'s 

Appendix. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AHUUDVSKSSOm  ON  THX  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  IIL    423 

64.  Diu  H£TLiN.i^^  To  whose  honour  he  "  (namely,  king  Stephen) 
/^erected  St  Stephen's  chapel  in  Westminster,  near  the  place  where 
lately  the  Court  of  Requests  was  kept."  (Ch.  Hist  toL  i.  p.  306.) 
Our  author  is  here  mealy-mouthed,  and  will  not  parler  le  Unit^  a^ 
the  Frenchmen  say,  For  otherwise  he  might  hare  told  us,  that  tibds 
chapel  is  still  standing,  and,  since  the  surrendry  of  it  to  king  Edward 
Yl,^  hath  been  used  for  a  Parliament  House,  employed  to  that  pur- 
pose by  the  Commons,  as  it  still  continueth.^  What  might  induce  our 
author  to  be  thus  reserved,  I  can  hardly  tell ;  unless  it  be  to  prevent 
such  inferences  and  obsenrations,  which  by  some  wanton  wits  might  be 
made  upon  it 

Fuller. — I  hope,  rather,  some  gracious  hearts  will  make  pious 
improvement  thereupon,  praying  to  God,  that,  seeing  so  many 
signal  persons  are  now  assembled  therein,  tbe  very  place,  once 
dedicated  as  a  chapel  to  St.  Stephen,  may  be  their  more  effectual 
remembrancer  to  imitate  the  purity  and  piety  of  that  renowned 
saint ;  that  so  God  may  be  invited  graciously  to  be  present  amongst 
them,  to  over-rule  all  their  consultations  to  his  glory,  the  good  of 
the  church  and  state,  and  the  true  honour  of  the  nation.  And  to 
this  let  every  good  man  say,  *'  Amen.^     Our  author  proceeds  :— 

65.  Dr.  Hetlin. — ^'*By  the  same  title  from  his  &ther,  Geoffrey 
Phmtagenet,  he  possessed  fair  lands  in  Anjou  and  Maine."  (Ch.  Hist. 
vol.  i.  p.  322.)  I  had  thought  he  had  possessed  somewhat  more  in 
Anjou  and  Maine,  than  some  ^^  fair  lands  "  only ;  his  father  Geoffrey 
Plantagenet  being  the  proprietary  Earl  of  Anjou,  Maine,  and  Turenne, 
not  a  titular  only ;  succeeded  in  the  same  by  this  king  Henry  and  his 
two  sons,  Richsurd  and  John,  till  lost  unhappily  by  the  last,  with  the 
rest  of  our  estates  on  that  side  of  the  sea.  From  this  Geoffrey 
descended  fourteen  kings  of  the  name  of  Plantagenet ;  the  name  not 
yet  extinguished,  though  it  be  impoverished :  our  author  speaking  of 
one  of  them,  who  was  found  not  long  since  at  the  plough :  (Ch.  Hist. 
vol.  L  book  2,  p.  254 :)  another  of  that  name  publishing  a  book 
ahout  the  plantation  of  New- Albion,  anno  1646,  or  not  long  before. 

Fuller. — ^The  frequent  and  familiar  figure  of  meiom  will 
rectify  all,  whereby  less  is  said  than  meant^  and  therefore  more  must 
be  understood  than  is  said.  Besides,  it  made  me  mince  my 
expression,  (being  loath  to  exceed,)  because  this  Geoffrey  did  not 
to  me  appear  (though  the  earl)  so  entire  in  those  dominions,  but 
that  the  kings  of  France  and  England  had  cities  and  castles  inter- 
posed therein.     Our  author  proceeds : — 

66.  Da.  Heylin.<*— ^^  King  John  sent  a  base,  degenerous,  and  un- 
christian embasss^e  to  Admiralius  Murmelius,  a  Mahometan  king  of 
Morocco,  then  very  ipuissant,  and  possessing  a  great  part  of  Spain.*. 

•  Stow's  «  Survey,"  p.  893. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


424  APPEAL  OF  INJI/RBD  INNOCKNCK.  PART  II. 

(Ch.  Hist.  Tol.  i.  p.  342.)  This  Admiralius  Murmelius,  as  oor  author 
and  the  old  monks  call  him,  was  bj  his  own  name  called  Mahomet 
Enaser,  the  Miramomoline  of  Morocco ;  to  whom,  if  king  John  sent 
anj  such  message,  it  was  as  ^  base,  unchristian,  and  degenerate" as  oui 
author  makes  it. 

Puller.— I  will  ingenuously  confess,  that  the  first  time  1 
found  this  story  was  in  the  doctor^s  "Microcosm;'^  the  novelty 
making  me  take  the  more  notice  thereof.  Though  since  I  have 
met  with  it  in  M.  Paris,  (the  fountain,)  and  other  authors,  (tie 
channels  thereof,)  I  conceive  it  was  as  lawful  for  me  to  relate  it,  as 
for  the  Animadvertor,  who  epithets  this  embassy  "base,  degene- 
rous,  and  unchristian  ;'"♦  the  words  which  in  me  he  reproveth. 

Dr.  Heflin. — BSt,  being  the  credit  of  the  tale  depends  npon  tie 
credit  of  the  monkish  authors,  to  which  brood  of  men  that  king  was 
known  to  be -a  professed  enemy,  (hating  and  hated  by  one  another,)  it 
is  not  to  be  esteemed  so  highly  as  a  piece  of  Apocrypha,  and  much  Jess 
to  be  held  for  Gospel.    ' 

Fuller. — Here  he  rather  speaks  aliter  than  cdia^  from  what  I 
had  written  on  the  same  subject,  who  thus  concluded  the  character 
of  king  John  :— 

"  We  only  behold  him  through  such  a  light  as  the  firiais  bis 
foes  show  him  in ;  who  so  hold  the  candle,  that,  with  the  shadow 
thereof,  they  darken  his  virtues,  and  present  only  his  vices,  i^a, 
and  as  if  they  had  also  poisoned  his  memory,  they  cause  his  faults 
to  swell  to  a  prodigious  greatness,  making  him  with  their  pens  more 
black  in  conditions  than  the  Morocco^king  (whose  aid  he  requested; 
could  be  in  complexion."'     (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  344.) 

Here  I  desire  to  give  the  reader  a  taste  of  what  doth  frequentj 
occur  in  this  book,  and  of  what  I  justly  did  complain ;  namely? 
Animadvertor,-f-  "  sometimes  not  liking  my  language,  (as  not  prop« 
and  expressive   enough,)  substituteth  his  own,  with  little  or 
variation  of  matter.'' 

I  confess  he  is  not  bound  to  use  my  words,  and  such  vanawo , 
simply  in  itself,  is  no  wrong  unto  me ;  but  it  becometh  an  inj"; 
when  they  must  pass  for  "  Necessary  Animadversions  "  on  my  "  ' 
to  the  defaming  thereof,  as  if  it  were  defective  without  them,  ^^ic 
were  there  (though  perchance  not  so  finely)  as  fully  and  clear  y 
before. 

Dr.  Heylin.-— Possible  it  is,  that,  being  overlaid  by  his  own  ^**J^/ 
and  distressed  by  the  French,  he  might  send  unto  that  king  for  ^ 
his  great  extremities.     And,  doing  this,  (if  this  were  all,)  he  <" 

•  His  description  of  Barbaiy,  [in  Ids  «  Cosmography,"  p.  968.]  t  ^**  '^ 

part  i.  cLap.  ii.  p.  297. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVEASIONS  ON  THB  CHURCH-HlST^RT,  BOO&  III.      435 

more  than  nature,  and  indignation,  and  the  necessity  of  bis  aflairs  did 
proYoke  him  to ;  not  half  so  much  as  was  done  afterwards,  upon  fSr 
weaker  grounds,  by  king  Francis  I.  employing  the  Turk's  forces  both 
by  sea  and  land  against  Charles  Y.  But  the  monks,  coming  to  the 
knowledge  of  this  secret  practice,  and  construeing  his  actions  to  the 
worst,  improYed  the  molehill  to  a  mountain,  rendering  him  thereby  as 
odious  to  posterity  as  he  was  to  themselYes. 

FuLLKR. — How  much  is  this  different  from  what  I  have  written 
before,  but  that  the  Animadvertor  will  not  wear  words  at  the  second- 
hand of  my  using,  but  will  hare  them  spick  and  span  new  of  his 
own  making  ?     Our  author  proceeds : — 

67*  Dr.  Hetlin.— -^'  I  question  whether  the  bishop  of  Rochester, 
whose  country  house  at  Bromley  is  so  nigh,  had  CYcr  a  house  in  the 
city."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  355.)  There  is  no  question  but  he  had. 
Stow  finding  it  in  Southwark  by  the  name  of  Rochester-house,  adjoin- 
ing on  the  south  side  to  the  bishop  of  Winchester's ;  ruinous  and  out 
of  reparation  in  his  time,  (as  possibly  not  much  frequented  since  the 
building  of  Bromley-house,)  and  since  converted  into  tenements  for 
private  persons. 

Fuller. — It  was  a  question  to  me,  though  none  to  the  Animad- 
vertor ;  now  it  is  a  question  neither  to  him  nor  to  me,  who  by  him 
am  informed.  I  see  that  men  may  learn  by  what  boys  learn  in  their 
Qui  mihi  : — 

Sed  qui  nUduUtat,  nil  capit  indi  boni. 

Had  I  not  questioned  this  once  publicly,  probably  I  had  ques- 
tioned it  ever  privately,  and  gone  in  myself  without  satisfiiction. 

68.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^But  since  our  author  hath  desired  "  others  to 
recover  the  rest  from  oblivion,"  I  shall  help  him  to  the  knowledge  of 
two  more,  and  shall  thank  any  man  to  find  out  the  third.  The  first 
of  these  two  is  the  bishop  of  Lincoln's  house,  situate  near  the  old 
Temple  in  Holbom,  first  built  by  Robert  de  Chesney,  Bishop  of  Lin- 
coln, anno  1147,  since  sdiened  from  that  see  to  the  earls  of  South- 
ampton, and  passing  by  the  name  of  Southampton-house.  The  second 
is  the  bishop  of  Bangor's,  a  fair  house  situate  in  Shoe-lane,  near  St. 
Andrew's  church,  of  late  time  leased  out  by  the  bishops,  and,  not  long 
since,  the  dwelling  of  Dr.  Smith,  Doctor  in  Physic,  a  right  honest  and 
ingenuous  person,  and  my  very  good  friend.  Of  all  the  old  bishops 
which  were  founded  before  king  Harry  VIH.  there  is  none  whose 
house  we  have  not  found  but  the  bishop  of  Asaph ;  to  the  finding 
whereof,  if  our  author,  or  any  other,  will  hold  forth  the  candle,  I  shall 
follow  the  light  the  best  I  can,  and  be  thankful  for  it. 

Fuller. — I  faithfully  promise  so  to  do,  as  soon  as  I  arrive  at 
any  good  intelligence  thereof.     Our  author  proceeds  :-— 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ism  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCfiNCS*  a^A&T  II. 

60.  Dr.  HBTU17.P— **  And  iiMW^  some  faig^  Bqja&ste  look  «m  it 
ai  tlie  piodoct  <tf  subjects'  animosities  improying  themselTes  <w 
their  princes'  extremities,''  &c.  (Ch.  Hist  yol.  i.  p.  362.)  Our 
author  tdJs  us  in  his  '^  Epistle  to  the  Reader,"  that  ^^  the  three  first 
books  of  this  yehune  were,  for  the  main,  written  in  the  reign  of  the 
late  king,"  and  that  it  would  '^  appear  so  by  some  passages  which  w^?e 
then  proper  iFor  the  government.*'  But,  certainly,  if  these  words  were 
written  in  the  time  of  the  late  king,  they  were  written  in  the  time  of 
his  distress,  when  his  afiairs  were  de^rate  and  his  party  ruined;  the 
name  of  ^'BoyaHsts"  had  not  else  been  used  here  in  the  way  of 
reproach,  nor  any  new  matter  charged  upon  them,  which  might  render 
them  more  obnoxious  to  fine  and  ransom  than  the  crime  of  loyalty. 

Fuller.— My  loyalty  did  rise  and  fell  with  his  majesty's  suc- 
cess, as  a  rock  in  the  sea  doth  with  the  ebbing  and  flowing  of  the 
tide.  I  had  more  pityy  but  not  less  hmowr^  for  him  in  his  deepest 
distress. 

God  knows  my  heart,  I  use  not  die  word  "  high  Royalist  '^  here 
as  by  way  of  reproach,  and  the  unpartial  reader  neither  will  nor  can 
so  understand  it. 

Some  there  are  who  maintain,  that  a  king  is  no  iivay  confined  with 
his  own  laws,  but  that,  without  any  fault,  he  may,  by  his  own  list, 
limit  his  demands  on  his  subjects,  taking  from  them,  without  any 
wrong,  what  they  refuse  to  pay  unto  him.  These  the  Animadvertor 
will  call  "Royalists,^  and  I  dare  call  them  "high  Royalists;" 
beholding  (as  I  have  said)  the  Grand  Charter  *'  as  the  product  of 
subjects'  animosities,  improving  themselves  on  their  princes'  extre- 
mities." 

Dr.  Hbylin. — ^But,  whatsoever  our  author  thinks,  it  cannot  but 
appear  to  any  who  considts  the  story  of  former  times,  that  the  original 
of  this  Charter  was  first  writ  in  blood,  obtained  by  working  on  the 
necessities  of  some  princes,  extorted  in  the  minority  of  anotha*,  and 
finally  confirmed  by  him  who  had  not  power  to  justify  his  denial  of  it. 

Fuller. — I  could  heartily  have  wished,  that  the  Animadvertor 
had  expressed  the  names  of  these  kings ;  who  now  only  hope  that 
I  conjecture  them  aright. 

1.  King  John,  on  the  working  of  whose  necessities  it  was  first 
obtained. 

2.  Henry  III.  whose  consent  thereto  was  extorted  in  his  minority. 

3.  Edward  I.  confirming  it  when  not  in  power  to  justify  his 
denial,  during  his  durance  as  a  prisoner  taken  in  battle. 

Here,  I  confess,  are  three  sad  conditions,  necessity  of  the  first, 
minority  of  the  second,  captivity  of  the  third.  But  know,  that 
the  last  of  these — ^when  at  liberty,  and  not  only  endued  with  free- 
dom, but  empowered  with  force,  and  being  as  wise  and  successful  :a 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANlMADVERiSlONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  III.     427 

priticd  ft8  eTer  slit  on  the  English  throne— found  it  adyantageoui 
for  his  interest  to  observe  what  formerly  when  a  prisoner  he  had 
confirmed. 

Otherwise  his  sword  was  so  long,  (reaching  as  far  as  Palestine 
itself,)  and  so  sharp,  (hewing  his  conquering  way  through  Wales  and 
Scotland,)  that  therewith  (enforced  with  his  arm)  he  might  have, 
rescinded  the  seals  of  the  Grand  Charter,  and  put  himself  into  the 
condition  of  an  absolute  command. 

But  he  preferred  the  strict  observation  thereof,  partly  out  of  piety, 
because  solemnly  sworn  thereunto  \  partly  out  of  policy,  as  sensible 
that  therein  the  rights  of  sovereigns  and  subjects  were  indifferently 
contempered,  to  their  mutual  happiness  ;  it  being  fetters  to  neither, 
but  girdles  to  both,  to  be  strengthened  by  such  restraints, 

70.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^And  if  our  author  be  so  certain,  that  *'  those  kings 
flourished  most  both  at  home  and  abroad,  who  tied  themselves  most 
cons^entiously  to  the  observation  thereof;"  I  would  fiiinknow  how 
some  of  our  kings,  who  have  "  most  conscientiously  tied  themselves 
to  that  observation,"  became  so  unprosperous ;  or  how  some  others 
came  to  ^<  flourish  boti^  at  home  and  abroad,"  who  have  made  it  their 
great  work  to  infringe  the  same  in  almost  all  the  principal  articles  and 
main  branches  of  it. 

Fuller. — It  is  an  hard  question,  and  yet  perchance  more  dan- 
gerous than  difficult  to  answer ;  but  the  reason  I  dare  allege  is  this : 
"  E\m  so,  Father,  because  it  pleased  thee." 

Let  me  add,  that  such  conscientious  observers  thereof,  who  have 
proYed  unsuccessful,  may  esteem  their  losses  as  sweet-brier  and 
holy-thistle,  and  more  cordially  comfort  themselves  in  such  sancti- 
fied aiBictioDS,  than  the  infringers  of  their  charter  could  content 
themselves  in  their  successful  oppression. 

I  cannot  part  from  this  point  till  I  have  inserted,  that  sir  Robert 
Cotton^^ne  who  had  in  him  as  much  of  the  gentleman,  antiquary, 
lawyer,  good  subject,  and  good  patriot,  as  any  in  England — was 
the  author,  (in  his  "  Short  View  of  the  long  Reign  of  King  Henry 
the  third,^)  who  made  the  observation  of  those  most  successful 
^i"gs>  by  whom  the  Gmnd  Charter  was  most  conscientiously 
observed.     Our  author  proceeds : — 

71-  Dr.  Heylin, — "The  poor  Jews  durst  not  go  into  France, 
whence  lately  they  had  been  solenmly  banished;  but  generally  dis- 
posed themselves  in  Germany  and  Italy."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  390.) 
*he  "poor  Jews"  are  more  beholding  to  our  author  for  his  commiseran 
tioix  than  the  "  high  Royalists"  (as  he  calls  them)  in  the  former  pas- 
J^®'  But,  poor  or  ricA,  they  might  have  passed  safely  into  France, 
"ad  they  been  so  minded.     For  though  he  tells  us,  that  they  had  been 


Digitized  by 


Google 


428  APPJIAL  01?  mjURKD  INNOCBNCfi.  ?AET  It. 

solemnly  bamslied  out  of  France  before  Has  time ;  yet  eidier  sdcK 
banishment  was  repealed  or  temporary  only,  or,  as  I  rather  think)  not 
80  much  as  sentenced.  Certain  I  am,  our  learned  Brerewood,  upon  a 
diligent  inquiry^  hath  found  it  otherwise  than  our  author  doth ;  letting 
us  know,  that  ^'  the  first  country  in  Christendom  whence  the  Jews 
were  expelled  without  hope  of  return,  was  our  country  of  England, 
whence  they  were  banished,  anno  1290,  by  king  Edward  I. ;  and  not 
long  after  out  of  France,  anno  1307,  by  Philippus  Pulcher."*  Not 
out  of  France  first,  out  of  England  afterwards,  as  our  author  would 
hare  it 

Fuller. — I  wonder  any  good  Christians  would  be  offended  with 
me  for  pitying  them  by  the  name  of  "  poor  Jews."  If  any  high 
Royalists  (as  I  fear  there  is  too  many)  be  in  low  estate,  would  it 
were  as  well  in  my  power  to  relieve  as  to  pity  them  !  Till  when, 
they  shall  have  my  prayers,  that  God  would  give  them  patience,  and 
support  them  in  their  deepest  distress. 

The  author  will  find,  that  though  the  great,  general,  and  final 
banishment  of  the  Jews  out  of  France  was  anno  1307,  under  Philip 
the  Fair,  yet  formerly  there  had  been  edicts  for  their  exile  thence. 

72.  Dr.  Hstlin. — ^**  Thus  men  of  yesterday  hare  pride  too  much 
to  remember  what  they  were  the  day  before."  (Ch.  Hist.  yoL  i.  p.  405.) 
An  observation  true  enough,  but  not  well  applied.  The  two  Spencers 
whom  he  speaks  this  of,  were  not  "  men  of  yesterday,"  or  raised  out  of 
the  dirt  or  dunghill  to  so  great  an  height ;  but  of  as  old  and  known 
nobility  as  the  best  in  England :  insomuch  that  when  a  question  grew 
in  Parliament,  whether  the  baroness  De  Spencer  or  the  Lord  of  Aber- 
gavenny were  to  have  precedency,  it  was  adjudged  unto  De  Spencer, 
thereby  declared  the  ancientest  barony  of  the  kingdom  at  that  time 
then  being,  t  These  two  Spencers, — Hugh  the  father  was  created  earl 
of  Winchester  for  term  of  life ;  and  Hugh  the  son,  by  marrying  one 
of  the  daughters  and  co-heirs  of  Gilbert  de  Clare,  became  earl  of 
Gloucester; — ^men  more  to  be  conmiended  for  their  loyalty,  than 
accused  for  their  pride,  but  that  the  king  was  now  declining,  and, 
therefore,  it  was  held  fit  by  the  prevalent  faction  to  take  his  two  sup- 
porters from  him,  as  they  after  did. 

Fuller. — The  two  Spencers  fall  under  a  double  consideration, 
and  are  beheld  in  history  for  their  extraction,  either  as  absolutely  in 
themselves,  or  as  comparatively  with  others. 

Absolutely^  they  were  of  honourable  parentage ;  and  I  believe 
the  elder  might  be  born  a  baron,  whose  barony  (by  the  heir-general) 
is  still  extant  in  Mildmay  Fane,  earl  of  Westmoreland  ;  and  from 
the  younger  house  of  a  male-heir,  the  lord  Spencer  of  Worme- 
layton  (now  earl  of  Sunderland)  doth,  as  I  have  seen  in  his  pedi- 
gree, derive  himself. 

•  Bberbwood's  "  Inquiry,"  cap.  13.  f  Camden  in  Monmoathsliire.     . 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORT,  BOOK  III.    429 

Conqxiratiwly^  so  were  they  &r  inferior  to  most  of  those  great 
persons  over  whom  they  insulted^  being  originally  earls,  and  some  of 
them  of  royal  extraction. 

Again,  the  two  Spencers  may  and  ought  by  an  historian  to  be 
considered,  1.  As  to  be  commended  for  their  loyalty,  and,  2.  As  to 
be  condemned  for  their  insolency. 

.  On  the  first  account,  they  deserve  just  praise  ;  and  it  is  probable 
enough,  that  they  find  the  less  fiivour  from  some  pens,  for  being  so 
faithful  to  so  unfortunate  a  sovereign. 

The  latter  cannot  be  excused,  appearing  too  plain  in  all  our  His- 
tories.    Our  author  proceeds  :— 

73.  Dr.  Hbylin. — "The  Lord  Chancellor  was  ever  a  bishop."  (Ch. 
Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  422.)  If  our  author  by  this  word  ever  understands 
m  TO  croXt/,  *'mo8t  commonly,"  or  "for  the  most  part,"  he  is  right 
enough ;  but  then  it  will  not  stand  with  the  following  words ;  namely,  "  bb 
if  it  had  been  against  equity  to  employ  any  other  therein."  And,  on 
the  other  side,  if  he  take  the  word  ever  in  its  proper  and  more  natural 
sense,  as  if  none  but  bishops  had  ever  been  advanced  unto  that  office, 
lie  doth  not  only  misinform  the  reader,  but  confute  himself,  he  having 
told  us,  in  page  31 1  of  this  present  book,  []of  his  Church-History,] 
that  Thomas  Becket,  being  then  but  archdeacon  of  Canterbuiy,  waa 
made  Lord  Chancellor,  and  that,  as  soon  he  was  made  archbishop,  he 
resigned  that  office.  But  the  truth  is,  that  not  only  men  in  holy  orders, 
hut  many  of  the  laity  also,  had  attained  that  dignity ;  as  will  appear 
to  any  who  will  take  the  pains  to  consult  the  catalogue  of  the  Chan- 
cellors and  Keepers  of  the  Great  Seal,  in  the  "  Glossary  "  of  sir  Heniy 
Spelman :  in  which  appear  not  only  some  of  inferior  dignity,  as  deans, 
archdeacons,  household  chaplains ;  but  many  also  not  dignified  with 
any  ecclesiastical  title  or  notification,  and,  thereforie,  in  all  probability 
to  be  looked  on  as  mere  laymen,  counsellors,  and  servants  to  the  kings 
in  whose  times  they  lived,  or  otherwise  studied  in  the  laws,  and  of 
good  affections,  and  consequently  capable  of  the  place  of  such  trust 
and  power. 

Puller. — May  the  reader  take  notice,  that  this  complaint  was 
made  by  the  Commons  in  the  11th  of  Edward  III.  anno  1336. 
Now,  '«  ever''  I  here  restrain  to  the  oldest  man  alive,  then  present 
in  Parliament,  who  could  not  distinctly  remember  the  contrary,  from 
the  first  of  king  Edward  I.  who  began  his  reign  1272 ;  so  that  for 
full  sixty-four  years,  an  uninterrupted  series  of  bishops  (except  pos- 
sibly one  put  in,  pro  tempore^  for  a  month  or  two)  possessed  the 
place  of  Cbancellors. 

This  complaint  of  the  Commons  occasioned  that  the  king,  some 
three  years  after,  (namely,  in  the  fifteenth  year  of  his  reign,) 
coaferred  the  Chancellor's  place  on  a  layman.    But  it  was  not  long 


Digitized  by 


Google 


430  APPKAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE,  PART  II. 

before  thing»  returned  to  the  old  chaimel  of  cleigymen,  and  so 
generally  for  many  jears  contmued,  with  9omo  f<^w  and  duort  inter- 
positions of  laymen.     Our  author  proceeds  :—*• 

Db.  Hetlin. — ^**  This  year,  namdy,  1350,  authors  generally  agree, 
king  Edward  instituted  the  Order  of  the  Garter."  (Gh.  Hist.  yoL  i. 
p«  426.)  Right  enough  as  unto  the  time,  hut  much  mistaken  in  some 
things  which  relate  unto  that  ancient  and  most  nohle  Order;  our 
author  taking  up  his  commodities  at  the  second-hand,  neither  consult- 
ing the  records,  nor  dealing  in  this  business  with  men  of  credit. 

Puller.— I  am  now  come  under  the  roof  of  the  Animadvertor, 
who,  by  the  laws  of  hospitality,  is  bound  to  treat  me  the  more 
courteously ;  I  mean,  I  am  entered  into  a  subject  wherein  he  is 
well  seen  9  and  therefore  might  &vouiably  c<HiniTe  at  my  small  slips, 
being  therein  best  studied. 

It  is  aetserely  said,  ^  that  in  this  business  I  dealt  with  no  mea 
of  credit!'^  The  highest  person,  (next  the  son  of  the  king,) 
wearing  a  blue  ribbon,  was  pleased  so  fi^  to  fevour  me,  as  that 
from  his  own  mouth  I  wrote  the  last^  sheet  of  my  History,  his 
Grace  endeavouring  to  be  very  exact  in  aU  particulars. 

74.  Dr.  Heylin. — For,  First,  there  are  not  fourteen  Canons  resident 
in  the  church  of  Windsor,  hut  thirteen  only  with  the  dean ;  it  being 
king  Edward's  purpose  when  he  founded  that  Order,  consisting  of 
twenty-six  knights,  himself  being  one,  to  institute  as  many  greater  and 
lesser  Canons,  and  as  many  old  soldiers  (commonly  called  Poor 
Knights)  to  be  pensioned  there  :  though,  in  this  last,  the  uumber  was 
not  made  up  to  his  first  intention. 

Fuller.*— The  mistake  (such  an  one  as  it  is)  shall  be  amended, 
in  my  nezt  edition. 

7a.  I)iu  HBYLiN.^-^He  tells  us.  Secondly,  that  if  he  "  be  not  mis- 
taken," (as  mdeed  be  is,)  "  Sir  Thomas  Roe  was  the  last  Chancellor  of 
the  Order."  Whereas  Sir  James  Palmer,  one  of  the  Gentlemen 
Huishers  {^Ushers^j  of  the  Priry  Chamber,  succeeded  him  in  the  place  of 
Chaneellor  after  his  decease,  anno  1644. 

Fuller.'— The  Animadvertor  is  very  discourteous  to  deny  me 
the  benefit  of  the  parenthesis,  "  If  J  be  not  mistaken,^'  The  best 
authors  have  their  M  faUory  Si  quid  videOy  fiS  ben^  intelligoy  and 
the  like ;  these  are  j^rains  allowed  to  all  pieqes  current  in  payment. 

Sir  Thomas  Roe  was  the  last  Chancellor  who  eifectually  oflSciateJ 
in  his  place  ;  Windsor,  before  the  year  1644,  being  a  chief  ganison 
pf  the  Parliament. 

Tttlly  calls  a  consuU  chosen  in  the  mpming  ^nd  put  out  before 
night,  "  a  v^lcmt  consuI>  who  ixeypx  9lept  iii  all  his  poiisujship-'! 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  III.     43 

But,  on  another  occasion,  one  may  say  of  sir  James  Pafaner,  (othcr^ 
wise  a  worthy  gentleman,  well  deserving  that  and  a  better  pkce,) 
that  he  was  "a  very  watchful  Chancellor,  who  never  slept  in 
Windsor  whilst  invested  in  his  office." 

76.  Dr.  Hbtlin. — ^He  tells  us,  Thirdly,  that  there  belongs  unto  it 
one  "  Register,  being  always  the  dean  of  Windsor  :*  which  is  nothing 
so.  For  though  the  deans  of  late  times  have  been  Registers  also,  yet 
a^  tniiio  non  fuit  tic^  **  it  was  not  so  from  the  beginning ;"  the  first 
dean  was  also  Register,  being  John  Boxul,  anno  1557.  Before  which 
time,  beginning  at  the  year  1414,  there  had  been  nine  Registers,  who 
were  not  deans ;  but  how  many  more  before  that  time,  I  am  not  able 
to  say,  their  names  not  being  on  record. 

Fuller.— >!  say  not,  that  the  Register  always  teas  the  dean,  but 
beinff  always  the  dean;  which,  relating  to  our  and  our  &tbers'* 
memodes^  is  right  enough :  but  it  shall  be  reformed. 

77,  78.  Db.  HsYLm.— And,  Foorthly,  he  tells  us,  that  the  garter  ia 
one  of  the  extraordinary  habiliments  of  the  Knights  of  this  Order,  their 
ordinary  being  only  ^^the  blue  ribbon  about  their  necks,  with  the 
picture  of  St.  Geoige  appendent,  and  the  sun  in  his  glory  on  the  left 
shoulder  of  their  cloak;'*  whereas,  indeed,  the  garter  is  of  common 
wearing,  and  of  such  necessary  use  that  the  Knights  are  not  to  be  seen 
abroad  without  it,  ^^  upon  pain  of  paying  two  crowns  to  any  officer  of 
the  Order,  who  shall  first  claim  it,  unless  they  be  to  take  a  journey,*"  • 
in  which  case  ^'  it  is  sufficient  to  wear  a  blue  ribbon  under  their  boots 
to  denote  the  garter."  Lastly.  Whereas  our  author  tells  us,  that  the 
Knights  hereof  do  wear  *^  on  the  left  shoulder  of  their  doaks  a  sun  in 
his  gloty,"  and  attributes  this  wearing,  as  some  say,  to  king  Charles,  I 
will,  first,  put  him  out  of  doubt,  that  this  addition  was  king  Charles's  ; 
then,  show  him  his  mistake  in  the  matter  itself.  And,  First,  in  the 
first  year  of  that  king,  April  26th,  1626,  it  was  thus  enacted  at  a 
public  Chapter  of  the  Order,  namdy, ''  Tbat  all  Kjiights  and  Com- 
panions of  the  Order  shall  wear  upon  the  left  part  of  their  doaks, 
coats,  and  riding  cassocks  at  all  times  when  they  shall  not  wear  their 
robes,  and  in  all  places  of  assembly,  an  escutcheon  of  the  arms  of 
8t.  George,  id  esty  a  cross  within  a  garter,  not  enriched  with  pearls  or 
stones ;  in  token  of  the  honour  which  they  hold  from  the  same  most 
noble  OVder,  instituted  and  ordained  for  persons  of  the  highest  worth 
atid  honour."  Our  author,  Secondly,  may  perceive  by  this  Act  of  the 
king'g,  that  St.  George's  cross  within  the  garter  is  the  main  device 
enjoined  to  be  worn  by  all  the  Knights  of  that  noble  Order ;  to  which 
Padding  of  ^the  sun  in  his  gloiy"  served  but  fcur  ornament  and 

embellishing,  and  might  be  either  used  or  not  used,  (but  only  for  oon- 
fornuty^s  sake,)  as  th^  wouhl  themselves* 

•  «  HiBtory  of  St.  George,"  Mb.  iii.  cap.  3,  8. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


432  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  11. 

FtJLLER.— This  "sun  in  glory"  affords  me  small  light,  so 
that  I  can  see  but  very  little  (if  any  thing  at  all)  vhich  I  have  to 
alter. 

Dr.  Heylin. — So  many  errors  in  so  few  lines  one  shall  hardly  meet 
with. 

Fuller. — Yea,  with  more  in  fewer  lines,  even  in  the  Animad-* 
vertor  himself,  in  laying  down  the  root  and  branclies  of  the  noble 
family  of  the  Montagues ;  mistakes  the  more  remarkable,  because 
done  in  correction  of  Mr.  Sanderson,  and  making  more  faults  than 
he  mendeth ;  or,  rather,  all  is  but  one  mistake,  resulting  from  a 
continued  complication  of  omissions,  confusions,  and  transpositions. 

"  Pol.  490.  Sir  Echoard  Montague  had  three  sons^  Edward^ 
the  ddesty  Knight  of  the  Bathy  <$•<?.— The  author  here  is  much 
mistaken  in  the  house  of  the  Montagues. 

"For,  First,  that  Edward  Montague  who  was  Knight  of  the 
Bath,  &c.,  was  not  brother  to  James  Bishop  of  Winchester,  and 
Henry  Earl  of  Manchester,  but  their  bro therms  son,  that  is  to  say, 
the  son  of  another  Edward  their  eldest  brother. 

"  Secondly.  Besides  that  Edward,  James,  and  Henry,  there  was 
another  brother  whom  the  author  names  not,  though  he  could  not 
choose  but  know  the  man,  namely.  Sir  Sidney  Montague,  one  of 
the  Masters  of  the  Requests  to  the  late  king  Charles.  Therefore, 
to  set  this  matter  right,  I  am  to  let  both  him  and  his  readers  know, 
that  Sir  Edward  Montague,  Chief  Justice  in  the  time  of  king 
Edward  VI.  was  father  of  another  Edward,  who  lived  peaceably 
and  nobly  in  his  own  country.  To  whom  succeeded  a  third 
Edward,  who  fought  for  honour  in  the  wars,  and  gained  the  repu- 
tation of  a  good  commander ;  the  elder  brother  of  James,  Henry, 
and  Sidney,  before-mentioned,  and  the  father  of  a  fourth  Edward 
who  was  made  Knight  of  the  Bath,  at  the  coronation  of  king  James, 
anno  1603,  and  afterwards  created  lord  Montague  of  Boughton  in 
the  nineteenth  year  of  that  king,  anno  1621,  which  honourable  title 
is  now  enjoyed  by  his  son,  (another  Edward,)  anno  1658. 

"And,  Thirdly,  though  I  grant  that  Dr.  James  Montague, 
bishop  of  Winchester,  (the  second  brother  of  the  four,)  was  of  great 
power  and  favour  in  the  time  of  king  James,''  &c. — Heylin's 
"  Advertisements  on  the  History  of  the  Reign  of  King  James^^ 
pages  21,  22. 

Thus  far  Dr.  Heylin,  out  of  his  "  Advertisements,''  written  in 
correction  of  Mr.  Sanderson's  "History  of  the  Reign  of  King 
James." 

To  rectify  this  heap  of  errors,  not  to  be  paralleled  in  any  author, 
(pretending  to  the  emendation  of  another,)  I  have  here  plainly  set 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTOEY,  BOOK  III.     4SS\ 

down  the  male  pedigree  of  this  noble,  numerous,  and  successful 
family. 

I. 

Sir  Edward  Montague,  lord  chief  justice,  in 
the  reign  of  king  Hemy  VIII. 


Sir  Edward  Montague,  a  worthy  patriot^  in 
the  reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth. 


I 

SirHenry  Mon- 
tague, third  son, 
earl  of  Man- 
chester, lord 
chief  justice, 
lord  treasurer^ 
&c. 


Edward  Montis 
gue  now  earl  of 

>lANCHEgTBR 

besides     other 
sons. 


Sir         Walter 

Montague, 
knight,  second 
son,  died  with- 
out issue. 


3. 

Sir  Edward  Monta- 
gue, made  Knight 
of  the  Bath  at  the 
coronation  of  king 
James,(neveramar- 
tiaUst,)  and  created 
by  him  baron  Mon- 
tague of  Boughton, 
dying  in  the  begin- 
ning  of    the    civil 


1^ 

Sir 

Charles 
Monta- 
gue, 4th 
Eon,  who 
did  good 
service  in 
Ireland ; 
and  left 

three 
daughters 
and      co- 
hein. 


James 
Monta- 
gue, 5th 
son,    bi- 
shop    of 
Win- 
chester, 
died  nn- 
mairied. 


Sir  Sid-* 
neyMon* " 
tague,  • 
6th  son. 
Master  of 
the  Re. 
quests,    • 


!     ^ 

Edward 
Monta-  * 
gue,  now: 
Admiral, . 
and  one  of 
the  lords  of 
the  Couii«N 
ell. 


William  Montague,  4. 

Esq.,  of  the  Middle     Edward  now  lord  Mon- 

Temple,  second  son.  .  tague  of  Boughton 


I 


Christopher  Monta^ 
gue,  th&d  son,  died 
before  his  ikther, 
being  a  most  hope- 
ful gentleman. 


Ralph  Montague,  esq., 
second  son. 


Edward  Montague,  esq., 
eldest  son. 


I  presume,  the  Animadvertor  will  allow  me  exact  in  this  family^ 
^hich  hath  reflected  so.  favourably  upon  me,  that  I  desire  (an4 
indeed,  deserve)  to  live  no  longer,  than  whilst  I  acknowledge  thQ 


same, 


r  F 


Digitized  by 


Google 


434  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PAUT  11. 


BOOK  IV. 

FBOM    THE    FIftST    PBRACHING   OF    WICKLIFFE,    TO    THS 
BEGINNING    OF    THE    REIGN    OF    KING    HENRY    VIII. 

70..^].  Dr.  Hbtlin. — ^Our  author  begins  this  book  with  the  stoij 
of  Wickliffe,  and  oontinueth  it  in  relating  the  successes  of  him  and  his 
followers ;  to  which  he  seems  so  much  addicted,  as  to  christen  their 
opinions  by  the  name  of  '^  the  Gospel."  For,  speaking  of  such  encou- 
ragements and  helps  as  were  given  to  Wickliffe  by  the  duke  of  Lan- 
caster, with  other  adyantages,  which  the  conditions  of  those  times  did 
afford  unto  him,  he  addeth,  that  ^'we  must  attribute  the  main  to 
Dirine  Proyidence  blessing  the  Gospel."  (Oh.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  438.)  A 
name  too  high  to  be  bestowed  upon  the  fancies  of  a  private  man, 
many  of  whose  opinions  were  so  £Eur  from  truth,  so  contrary  to  peace 
and  civil  order,  so  inconsistent  with  the  government  of  the  church  of 
Christ,  as  make  them  utterly  unworthy  to  be  looked  on  as  a  part  of 
the  Gospel  Or  if  the  doctrines  of  Wickliffe  must  be  called  ''the 
Gospel,"  what  shall  become  of  the  religion  then  established  in  the 
realm  of  England,  and  in  most  other  parts  of  the  western  world? 
Were  all  but  Wickliffe's  followers  relapsed  to  Heathenism?  Were 
they  turned  Jews,  or  had  embraced  the  law  of  Mahomet  ?  If  none  of 
these,  and  that  they  still  continued  in  the  faith  of  Christ,  delivered  to 
them  in  the  Gospels  of  the  four  Evangelists  and  other  apostolical 
writers,  Wickliffe's  new  doctrines  could  not  challenge  the  name  of 
''  Gospel,"  nor  ought  it  to  be  given  to  him  by  the  pen  of  any.  But 
such  is  the  humour  of  some  men,  as  to  call  every  separation  from  the 
church  of  Rome  by  the  name  of ''  Gospel ;"  the  greater  the  separation 
is,  the  more  pure  the  Gospel.  No  name  but  that  of  Evangelici  would 
content  the  Germans  when  they  first  separated  from  that  church,  and 
reformed  their  own :  and  Harry  Nichols,  when  he  separated  from  the 
German  churches,  and  became  the  father  of  the  tamilists,  bestows  the 
name  of  Evangelium  Regni  on  his  dreams  and  dotages.  Gospek  of 
this  kind  we  have  had,  and  may  have  too  many,  quot  capita  totjidefy 
''  as  many  gospels,  in  a  manner,  as  sects  and  sectaries,"  if  this  world 
go  on. 

Now  as  Wickliffe's  doctrines  are  advanced  to  the  name  of  Gospel, 
so  his  followers  (whatsoever  they  were)  must  be  called  God^s  servants, 
the  bishops  being  said  to  be  '^busy  in  persecuting  God's  servants;" 
(Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  468;)  and  for  what  crime  soever  they  were 
brought  to  punishment,  it  must  be  thought  they  suffered  only  for  the 
Gospel  and  the  service  of  God.  A  pregnant  evidence  whereof  we 
have  in  the  story  of  sir  John  Oldcastle,  accused  in  the  time  of  king 
Harry  Y.  for  a  design  to  kill  the  king  and  his  brethren,  actually  in 
arms  against  that  king  at  the  head  of  twenty  thousand  men,  attainted 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  IV.    435 

for  ihe  same  in  open  Parliament,  and  condemned  to  die,  and  executed 
in  St.  Giles's-Fields  accordingly,  as  both  sir  Roger  Acton,  his  principal 
eounsiellor,  and  thilrtjHSieyen  of  his  accomplices,  had  been  before.*  For ' 
this  we  hate  liot  only  the  authority  of  our  common  chronicles,  WaU 
singham.  Stow,  and  many  others ;  but  the  records  of  the  Tower,  and 
Acts  of  Parliament,  as  is  confessed  by  our  author.  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p. 
488.)  Yet,  coming  out  of  Wickli£fe*s  schools,  and  the  chief  scholar 
questionless  which  was  trained  up  in  them,  he  must  be  registered  for  a 
martyr  in  Fox's  Calendar.  And  though  our  author  dares  not  quit 
him,  (as  he  says  himself,)  yet  such  is  his  tenderness  and  respect  to 
Wickliffe's  Gospel,  that  he  *^  is  loath  to  load  his  memory  with  oause« 
less  eriines,"  (ibid.)  taxeth  the  clergy  of  that  time  for  their  hatred  to 
him,  dicR^rediteth  the  relation  <^  T.  Walsingham,  and  ail  later  authors, 
who  are  affirm^  tb  ^  fellow  him,  as  the  flock  dieir  bell-wether ; "  and 
finally  leaves  it  as  a  special  rerdict  '^  to  the  last  day  of  the  reyelatioo 
of  the  righteous  Judgments  of  God." 

FuLLER.^-^First.  I  ftin  would  know,  whether  the  Animadvertor 
would  be  contented  with  the  condition  of  tlie  church  of  England^  as 
Wickliffe  found  it,  for  opinions  and  practice ;  and  doth  not  ear* 
nesUy  desire  a  reformation  thereof? 

I  am  charitably  confident,  that  he  doth  desire  such  an  emenda- 
tion ;  and,  therefore,  being  both  of  us  agteed  in  this  point  of  the 
convenience  (yea,  necessity)  thereof,  in  the  Second  place  I  would 
as  fain  be  satisfied  from  the  Animadvertor,  whether  he  conceived  it 
possible,  that  such  reformation  could  be  advanced  (without  miracle) 
all  on  a  sudden,  so  that  many  gross  errors  would  not  continue,  and 
some  new  one  be  superadded  ? 

The  man  in  the  Gospel  first  saw  men  walking  as  trees,  before  he 
saw  perfectly.  Nature  hath  appointed  the  twilight  as  a  bridge  to 
pass  us  out  of  night  into  day.  Such  false  and  wild  opinions  (like 
th^  scales,  which  fell  down  from  the  eyes  of  St  Paul,  when  per- 
fectly iiestored  to  his  sight.  Acts  ix.  18)  have  either  vanished,  01 
been  banished,  out  of  all  Protestant  Confessions. 

Far  be  it  from  me  to  account  the  rest  of  England  relapsed  into 
Atheism,  or  lapsed  in  "Judaism,  Turcism,  &c.,  whom  I  behold  as 
*'  erroneous  Christians  in  doctrine  and  practice ; ''  and  yet  still  in 
such  a  condition,  that,  though  so  living  and  dying,  "  if  they  lead  a 
good  life,  and  being  weak,  ignorant,  and  seduced,  seriously 
repented  of  all  their  sins  of  ignorance,  they  might  be  saved ;  *** 
closing  fully  with  the  moderate  judgment  of  learned  Hooker  herein. 

I  know  that  the  very  worst  of  heretics  have  assumed  to  them* 
selves  the  very  best  of  names,  gilding  themselves  over  with  the  title 
of  "  Gospellers,''  and  the  like  ;  but  because  thieves  often  pretend 


•  Stow  in  Hen.  V. 

2  F  2 


Digiti 


zed  by  Google 


456      •  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCB.  PART  II. 

themselves  honest  men,  may  not  honest  men  avow  themselves  to  bd 
so,  and  also  be  so  termed  by  others  ? 

The  words  of  the  Animadvertor  of  Wickliffe^s  GospeL  might  well 
have  been  spared,  seeing  indeed  it  was  Christ's  Gospel,  (dawning  is 
fart  of  day,)  preached  by  Wickliffe,  in  a  purer  manner  than  in  that 
age,  (thanks  to  God  it  was  then  so  good !)  impurer  than  in  our  age : 
thanks  be  to  God  it  now  is  better  ! 

.  As  for  sir  John  Oldcastle,  lord  Cobham,  his  case  is  so  perplexed 
^ith  contrary  relations,  much  may  be  said  against  him,  and  little 
less  in  his  behalf;  and  I  have  cause  to  believe  indeed,  that  hi^ 
innocence  wanted  not  clearness  but  clearing. 
.  Whereas  the  Animadvertor  takes  exception  at  my  referring  the 
decision  hereof  ^*  to  the  revelation  of  the  righteous  judgment  of 
God,''  it  must  be  either  because,  1.  That  time  will  come  too  soon-- 
2.  Or  else  come  too  late— 3.  Or  else  be  insufficient — ^to  decide  the 
controversy.  And  having  no  just  cause  to  suspect  any  of  these,  it 
had  been  better  if  my  (or  rather  St.  Paul's,  Roin.  ii.  5)  words  had 
passed  without  his  reprehension. 

.  B2.  Dii.  Hetlin. — fVom  the  scholar  pass  we  to  the  master,  of 
whom  it  is  reported  in  a  late  popish  pamphlet,  that  he  made  a  recanta- 
tion of  his  errors,  and  lived  and  died  conformable  to  the  church  of 
Rome.  This  I  behold  as  a  notorious  falsehood,  an  imposture  of  the 
Jlomish  party,  though  the  argument  used  by  our  author  be  not  of 
strength  sufficient  to  enforce  me  to  it.  "  //,"  saith  he,  "  Wickliffe  vfas 
sufficiently  reconciled  to  the  Roman  faithy  why  was  not  Rome  suffi- 
ciently reconciled  to  him  ?  using  such  cruelty  to  him  many  years 
after  his  death."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  494.)  But  this,  say  I,  is  no 
reason,  of  no  force  at  all.  Wickliffe  might  possibly  be  reconciled  to 
the  church  of  Rome ;  and  yet  the  ministers  of  that  churdb,  to  strike 
a  terror  into  others,  might  execute  that  vengeance  on  him,  after  hi« 
decease,  which  they  had  neither  power  nor  opportunity  to  do  when  he 
was  alive.  Quam  vivo  iracundiam  debuerant^  in  corpus  mortvi  con'* 
tulerunl.  And  hereof  we  have  a  fair  example  in  Marcus  Antonius  de 
Dominis,  archbishop  of  Spalato ;  who,  coming* into  England,  1616,  did 
manifestly  oppose  the  doctrines  of  the  church  of  Rome  in  some  learned 
volumes.  But  being  cunningly  wrought  on  by  some  emissaries  of  the 
Romish  party  in  the  year  1622,  he  went  back  to  Rome,  was  reconciled 
to  that  church,  and  writ  there  most  reproachfully  of  the  church  of 
England ;  which  notwithstanding,  he  was  kept  prisoner  all  the  rest  of 
his  life,  and  his  body  burnt  to  ashes  after  his  decease.  So  then  it  is 
no  such  new  matter  for  a  dissenting  Christian,  such  as  Wickliffe  and 
De  Dominis  were,  though  branded  by  the  name  of  "  heretics,"  to  he 
admitted  to  a  reconciliation  with  the  church  of  Rome,  and  yet  tha^ 
church  to  carry  a  revengeful  mind  towards  them  when  occasion 
serves. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURGH-HISTORY,  BOOK  IV.    437- 

FuLLE*. — I  answer,  First :  I  am  not  the  first  who 'have  disco- 
vered strong  affections,  with  a  weak  judgment,  endeavouring  id 
prove  a  truth  with  a  non-cogent  and  un-concluding  argument,  ia 
case  my  reason  should  be  disproved. 

Secondly.  Spalato  is  no  proper  parallel  of  Wickliffe,  in  thia 
point.  Spalato  contracted  a  new  guilt,  by  bragging  at  the  table  of 
a  cardinal  in  Rome,  that  his  book  De  Repub,  Ecdes.  could  bet 
sinswered  by  none  but  himself;*  and  dum  calebat  ^'whilst  the 
scent  hereof  was  hot,''  they  burnt  his  body  when  but  lately  dead  :. 
whereas  their  despite  followed  Wicklifib  at  a  distance  more  than 
forty  years  after  his  death,  on  no  pretended  new  misdemeanour. 

Lastly.  The  Animadvertor  cometh  up  unto  me,  in  allowing 
WicUiffe's  reconciliation  to  Rome,  "a  notorious  untruth ;''  and 
therefore  we  may  proceed  to  what  is  more  material,  wherein  we 
two  shall  appear  two ;  being,  it  seems,  but  one  in  this  difference. 

83.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^And  vll  this  while  we  have  expected,  that  our 
author  would  have  given  us  a  brief  summary  of  Wickliffe's  doctrines, 
that,  by  seeing  the  piety  and  orthodoxy  of  his  opinions,  we  might  have 
thought  more  reverently  both  of  him  and  his  followers.  But  therein 
our  expectation  must  remain  unsatisfied ;  our  author  thinking  it  more 
agreeable  to  bis  design  to  hold  the  reader  in  suspense,  and  conceal  this 
from  him :  dealing  herein  as  the  old  Germans  did  with  those  of  other 
nations,  who  came  to  widt  upon  Yaleda,  a  great  queen  amongst  them  ; 
*'  not  suffering  any  to  have  a  sight  of  her,  to  keep  them  in  a  greater 
admiration  of  her  parts  and  person:"  arcehantur  aspectu  qud  plus 
venerationis  inesset^  as  it  is  in  Tacitus.t  The  wheat  of  Wicldiffe  was* 
so  foul,  so  fall  of  chaff,  and  intermingled  with  so  many  and  such  dan- 
^eroas  tares,  that  to  expose  it  to  the  view  were  to  mar  the  market. 
And  therefore  our  author,  having  formerly  honoured  his  opinions  by 
the  name  of  "  Gospel,"  and  his  followers  with  the  title  of  "  God's  ser-i 
vants,"  as  before  was  noted,  had  reason  not  to  show  them  all  at  once,' 
in  a  lump  together,  that  we  might  think  them  better  and  more  ortho- 
dox than  indeed  they  were.  But  the  best  is,  (to  save  us  the  trouble  of 
consulting  Harpsfield,  and  others  who'^bave  written  of  them,)  our 
author  hath  given  them  us  at  last  on  another  occasion ;  (Oh.  Hist; 
book  V.  vol.  ii.  p.  70 ;)  many  of  which  the  reader  niay  peruse  in  these 
Animadversions.  (Number  113.)  Thus,  having  laid  together  so  much 
of  this  present  book  as  relates  to  "Wickliffe  and  his  followers,  I  must 
behold  the  rest  in  fi:agments,  as  they  lie  before  me. 

Fuller. — Wickliffe's  doctrines,  so  called,  fall  under  a  double 
tiotion,  being  either  such  as  were,  1.  Charged  on  him,  2.  Maintained 
by  him. 

*  Out  of  exact  inteliigeiice  sent  from  his  near  kindred  to  Venice,  and  thence  to  Mr. 
Calendrine,  now  minister  of  the  Dutch  church.  t  Historia,  lib.  iT. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


438  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PAUt  It. 

1.  For  the  former,  no  fault  of  omission  can  be  found  in  me^ 
baying  given-in  (in  a  full  sheet*)  a  catalogue  of  them,  digested 
under  several  heads,  as  concerning  the  pope,  prelates,  priests,  saints, 
king,  Christ,  Ood,  with  the  tome,  book,  article,  chapter,  w^ere  they 
are  to  be  found  in  T.  Waldensis. 

Sure  I  am,  they  were  not  so  bad  in  all  particulars  as  he  there 
representeth  them.  If  the  Animadvertor,  a  Protestant,  living  with 
me  in  the  same  suffering  age,  accuse  me  for  accounting  *^  murdering 
of  kings  for  necessary  prudence,  as  oft  as  they  shall  fall  into  the 
power  of  their  subjects ; ""  -f  which  I  abhor  in  my  heart,  and  no 
such  thing  appears  in  the  place  cited ;  no  wonder  if  Waldensis 
charged  on  Wickliffe  abominable  errors,  which  he  cordially 
detested. 

2.  As  for  the  doctrines  which  Wickliffe  did  maintain,  we  have 
some,  but  want  an  eaaot  list  of  them  ;  and  I  believe  it  is  past  the 
power  of  any  author  alive  to  present  it  entire,  defecated  from  the 
calumniations  of  his  adversaries ;  and  therefore  impossibilities  are 
not  to  be  expected  from  me. 

Yet  am  I  not  such  an  admirer  of  Wickliffe,  but  that  I  believe 
he  did  defend  some  gross  errors ;  and  it  had  been  no  wonder  if  it 
were,  but  had  been  a  miracle  if  it  had  not  been  so,  considering  the 
frailty  of  flesh,  darkness  of  the  age  he  lived  in,  and  difficulty  of  the 
subject  he  undertook.  But  because  the  Animadvertor  refers  to 
something  following  in  my  fifth  book,  I  will  also  reserve  myself 
for  his  encounter  in  time  and  place  appointed.  Our  author  pro- 
ceeds :— 

84.  Dr.  Heylin. — "  He  lies  buried  in  the  south  aisle  of  St.  Peter  s, 
Westminster,  and  since  hath  got  the  company  of  Spencer  and  Dray- 
ton." (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  4(59.)  Not  Drayton's  company,  I  am  sure ; 
whose  hody  was  not  buried  in  the  south  aisle  of  that  church,  hut 
under  the  north  wall  thereof  in  the  main  body  of  it,  not  far  from  a 
little  door  which  openeth  into  one  of  the  prebends'  houses.  This  I 
can  say  on  certain  knowledge,  being  casually  invited  to  his  funeral, 
when  I  thought  not  of  it ;  though,  since,  his  slatted  hath  been  set  up 
in  the  other  place  which  our  author  speaks  of. 

Fuller. — I  follow  the  information  in  bis  epitaph  on  his  tomb, 
r  car  the  south  door  in  Westminster  abbey  ;— 

*<  Do,  pious  marble,  let  the  readers  know 
What  they  and  what  their  children  owe 
To  Draj'ton's  name  j  whose  sa^^red  dust 
We  recommend  unto  thy  trust. 

•  Chiurch  History,  book  iv.  rol.  i.  rr-  441—445.  t  In  h^s  Introduction,  page  336 
of  this  volume. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIBCADVERSIONS  ON  TBB  CH0RCH^HISTOR\%  BOOK  IV.    43O 

rreaorve  Ua  mematy,  tad  protect  his  ttorj^ 
Remain  a  lasting  monument  of  hia  gloxy. 

And  when  thj  rain  shall  disclaim 

To  be  the  treasnrer  of  his  name, 
His  name,  which  caonot  die>  shall  be 
•         An  eveilasting  oHmnment  to  thee." 

Have  stones  learned  to  lie,  and  abuse  posterity  ?  Must  there 
needs  be  a  fiction  in  the  epitaph  of  a  poet  ?  If  this  be  a  mere 
cenotaph,  that  marble  hath  nothing  to  do  with  Diayton''s  dust. 
Bat  let  us  proceed  :— 

85.  Dr.  HhtIiIN^ — ^*  The  right  to  the  crown  lay  not  in  tliis  Henry, 
but  in  Edmund  Mortimer,  earl  of  March,  descended,  by  his  mother, 
Philippa,  from  Lionel,  duke  of  Clarencie,  elder  son  to  Edward  III,**. 
(Ch.  Hist.  Tol.  i.  p.  471.)  I  shall  not  now  dispute  the  title  of  the 
House  of  Lancaster,  though  I  think  it  no  hard  matter  to  defend  it. 

Fuller. — I  think  it  is  not  only  difficult,  but  impossible,  except 
the  Animadvertor  can  duallenge  the  privilege  of  the  patriarch  Jacob, 
to  cross  his  hands,  and  prefer  the  younger  before  the  elder  diild,  in 
succession.    (Gen.  zlviii.  14.) 

Again :  the  title  of  Lancaster  may  be  considered,  either,  1.  As 
it  was  when  Henry  IV.  first  found  it.  2.  As  it  was  when  Henry 
VI.  last  left  it. 

The  latter  of  these  was  countenanced  with  many  laws  corro* 
borated  with  three  descents,  and  almost  threescore  years'  possession. 

Know,  reader,  my  words  are  of  the  right,  where  it  was  when 
Henry  IV.  first  seized  the  crown ;  and  then  he  had  not  a  rag  of 
right  to  cover  his  usurpation.  Instead  of  justifying  whereof,  let  us 
admire  God's  /reepleamre^  in  permitting  the  house  of  Lancaster  to 
last  so  long ;  his  justice^  in  assisting  York  afterwards  to  recover 
their  right;  and  his  mercy  at  last,  in  uniting  them  both,  for  the 
happiness  of  our  nation. 

Dn.  Hbtlin. — And  much  less  shall  I  venture  on  the  other  contro-> 
troversy;  namely,  "whether  a  king  may  legally  he  deposed?  as  is 
insinuated  by  our  author  in  the  words  foregoing. 

Puller. — It  seems  the  Animadvertor  finds  little  in  my  book 
above  ground  for  his  purpose  to  cavil  at,  because  fain  to  mine  for 
my  insinuations.  But  let  the  reader  judge,  whether  any  man  alive 
can  from  those  my  words,  *'  The  right  lay  not  in  this  Henry,  but  in 
Mortimer,  earl  of  March,"  infer  an  insinuation,  that  kitiffs  may 
legally  be  d^osed.  This  insinuation  must  be  in  sinUy  "  in  the 
bosofn  '^  of  the  Animadvertor,  which  never  was  in  the  breast  of  the 
author.  More  perspicacity  must  be  in  the  organ,  than  perspicuity 
ia  the  object,  to  perceive  such  an  insinuation. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


440         '  APPEAL  OF  INJURfifa  INNOCfiNCK.  t^ART  It. 

Dr.  Heylin. — But  I  dare  grapple  with  him  in  a  point  of  heraldry, 
though  I  find  him  hett^r  studied  in  it  than  in  matter  of  history.  And 
certainly  our  author  is  here  out,  in  his  own  dear  element ;  Edmund 
Mortimer,  earl  of  March,-  not  heing  the  son,  hut  husband,  of  the  lady 
Philippa,  daughter  of  Lionel,  duke  of  Clarence,  and  mother  of  Roger  I 
Mortimer,  earl  of  March,  whom  Richard  II.  (to  despite  the  house  of 
Lancaster)  declared  heir-apparent  to  the  kingdom  of  England.*  It  is 
true,  this  Edmund  wa^  the  son  of  another  Philippa,  that  is  to  saj,  of 
Philippa  Montacute,  wife  of  a  former  Ro^er,  earl  of  March,  one  of  the 
founders  of  the  Garter.  So  that,  in  whomsoerer  the  best  title  lay^ 
it  lay  not  in  this  Edmund  Mortimer,  as  our  author  makes  it. 
/  FuLLEtt.— ^It  is  &. mere  c&sual  slip  of  my  pen,  Edmund  for 
Boger ;  and  this  is  the  first  time  I  crave  the  benefit  of  this  plea  k 
jny  defence.     Our  author  proceeds : — 

86.  Dr.  Heylin.—"  This  is  one  of  the  clearest  distinguishing  cb^ 
facters  betwixt  the  temporal  and  spiritual  lords, — ^that  the  former  are 
to  be  tried  per  pares^  'by  their  peers,'  being  barons  of  the  realm. 
(Ch.  Hist.  Tol.  i.  p.  472.)  Nor  shall  I  here  dispute  the  point,  whether 
a  bishop  may  not  challenge  to  be  tried  by  his  peers,  but  whether  tbe 
l)ii|ho(»s  were  not  batons  and  peers  of  the  realm.  Our  author  intimates 
that  they  were  not,  but  I  think  they  were. 

Fuller. — From  a  late  insinuation,  the  Aninaadvertor  nowpro- 
i:eeds  to  a  new  intimation  of  mine,  utterly  unextractable  from  my 
words.  But  know,  it  never  came  into  my  mind  to  think  that 
Ibishops  were  not  peers,  who  to  my  power  will  defend  it  against 
any  who  shall  oppose  it, 

,  Dr.  Heylin.— And  this  I  think  on  the  authority  of  the  learned 
Selden ;  in  whom  we  find,  that,  at  a  Parliament  at  Northampton  under 
Henry  II.  the  bishops  thus  challenge  their  own  peerage;  namely: 
Non  sedemus  tile  episcopi^  sed  harones ;  nos  baroneSy  vosbarones; 
pares  hie  sunius :  that  is  to  say,  "  We  sit  not  here  as  bishops  only,  hut 
as  barons ;  we  are  barons,  and.  you  are  barons ;  here  we  sit  as  peers. 
Which  last  is  also  yerified  in  (erminis^  by  the  words  of  a  Statute  or 
Act  of  Parliament,  wherein  the  bishops  are  acknowledged  to  be  peew 
of  the  land.  J  And,  for  further  proof  hereof,  John  Stratford,  Arch- 
bishop of  Canterbury,  (if  I  remember  it  aright,)  being  fallen  into  the 
displeasure  of  king  Edward  III.,  and  denied  entrance  into  the  House 
of  Peers,  made  his  protest,  that  he  was  primus  par  regni^  "  the  firs* 
peer  of  the  realm,"  and  therefore  not  to  be  excluded  from  his  pla<^® 
and  suffrage.  § 

Fuller. — This  indeed  is  one  of  the  most  ancient  and  pregnane 
evidences  of  our  bishops  sitting  as  peera  in  Parliament.      B^^ 

-  •  Camden  in  Radnor,  €2^.  t  Selpen's  "  TiUeB  of  Honow,'  part  ii-  «*  ^* 

I  Stat.  25  Edward  III.  ^  Anti^nit.  Britan.  ia  Stratf. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


-ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  MB  CHQUCH-HIStORT,  BOOK  IV.     44I 

Suspect  it  may  be  misimprbved  by  the  back-friends  to  bishops,  that 
they  sat  there  only  in  the  capacity  of  peers,  and  not  a  third  estate. 

'  Dr.  Heylin. — But  of  this  argument  enough,  if  not  too  much,  a» 
the  case  now  stands;  it  being  an  unhappy  thing,  to  consider  what 
they  have  been  formerly,  and  what  they  are  at  this  present. 

Fuller. — It  is  a  sad  truth  which  the  Animadvertor  saith.  And 
here  I  cannot  but  remember  David's  expression,  when  flying  from 
Absalom  :  "  If  I  shall  find  favour  in  the  eyes  of  the  Lord,  he  will 
bring  me  again  ;  but  if  he  say,  I  have  no  delight  in  thee,  behold, 
here  I  am,''  &c.  2  Sam.  xv.  25.  If  it  be  consistent  with  the  good- 
will and  pleasure  of  God,  in  due  time  he  will  buoy  up  again  the 
sunk  credit  of  the  clergy ;  if  not,  all  must  submit  to  Him  whose 
ways  are  often  above  reason,  never  against  right.  Our  author 
proceeds : — 

87.  Dr.  Heylin.— "Yea,  this  very  statute,  which  gave  power  to  a 
bishop  in  his  diocess  to  condemn  an  heretic,  plainly  pro  veth,  that  the  king, 
by  consent  of  Parliament,  directed  the  proceedings  of  the  ecclesiastical 
court  in  cases  of  heresy."  (Ch.  Hist  vol.  i.  p.  474.)  The  bishops  and 
clergy,  in  their  Convocations,  had  anciently  the  power  of  declaring 
heresy ;  the  bishops  singly,  in  their  Consistories,  to  proceed  against 
them,  by  enjoining  penance  and  recantation,  or  otherwise  to  subject 
them  to  excommunication.  The  statute  which  our  author  speaks  of, 
being  2  Hen.  IV.  cap.  15,  proceedeth  further ;  and  ordained,  in  favour 
of  the  church,  that  the  ordinary  might  not  only  convent,  but  imprison, 
,the  party  suspected  of  heresy ;  and  that  the  party  so  convented  and 
convicted  of  heresy,  and  continuing  obstinate  in  the  same,  should, 
^pon  a  certificate  thereof  made  and  delivered  to  the  secular  judge,  be 
publicly  burned  before  the  people.  In  order  whereunto,  as  in  a  matter 
.which  concerned  the  life  of  a  subject,  the  king,  with  the  advice  of  his 
Parliament,  might  lay  down  some  rules  for  the  regulating  the  proceed- 
ings of  the  bishops  and  other  ordinaries. 

Fuller. — There  be  two  distinct  things  which  in  this  point  must 
be  severally  considered,  1.  To  declare  and  define,  what  shall  be 
accounted  heresy.     2.  To  condemn  to  death  a  declared  heretic. 

1.  The  power  of  the  former  was  in  this  age  fixed  in  the  bishops, 
without  any  competition ;  and  is  so  clear  none  can  question  it. 
Yea,  by  the  same  power,  they  might  proceed  against  a  declared 
heretic,  without  any  leave  or  licence  from  king  or  Parliament,  so 
far  as  church-censures,  suspensions,  excommunications,  &c.,  could 
-extend. 

2.  But  as  for  the  latter,  "  to  condemn  them  to  death,"  herein 
the  Common  Law  began,  where  the  Canon  Law  ended,  and  regu- 
lated their  proceedings  accordingly. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


442  APPBAL  OF  INJURED  mNOC£NCS.  PART  It. 

Dr.  Hetlin.— But,  certainly,  it  is  a  sony  pi^ce  of  logic  to  conduda 
from  h^nce,  that,  generally  in  all  cases  of  heresy,  ^^  the  Jdng  with 
advice  of  his  Parliament  directed  the  proceedings  of  the  ecclesiastical 
courts."  A  piece  of  logic  shall  I  call  it,  or  a  fidlacy  rather  ?  a  fisillacy 
a  dicta  secundum  quid  ad  dictum  nmplicitery  committed  commonly, 
when  from  a  proposition  which  is  true  only  in  sotne  respect,  with 
reference  to  time,  place,  and  other  circomstances,  tiie  sophister  infer^ 
reth  something  as  if  simply  true,  thon^  in  itself  it  be  most  ahsdlately 
false.  As,  for  example :  ^*  The  pope,  even  in  matters  of  spiritual  cog* 
nizance,"  (for  so  it  followeth  in.  our  author,)  ^  had  no  power  oyer  the 
liyes  of  the  English  subjects;"  and  therefore  had  then  no  power  to 
proceed  against  them  in  point  of  heresy. 

Fuller.— -I  intended  not,  nor  have  I  abused  the  reader  with 
any  fallacious  argumentation.  It  is  true,  tcat^  cravro;,  the  king  and 
Parliament  "  directed  the  proceedings  of  the  ecclesiastical  court  in 
cases  of  heresy :"  I  mean  not,  to  decide  which  were  heresies,  but 
to  order  the  power  of  the  bbhop  over  declared  heretics,  without  the 
direction  of  the  statute,  not  to  proceed  to  limb  and  life ;  and,  I 
believe,  my  words  will  be  found  transcribed  out  of  sir  Edward 
Cokeys  most  elaborate  Report  of  the  king^s  power  in  ecclesiastical 
matters. 

88.  Dr.  Hbylin.— .**  Henry  VII.  (bom  in  the  bowels  of  Wales,  at 
Pembroke,  &c.)  some  years  aflker  plucked  down  the  partition-wall 
betwixt  them."  (Oh.  Hist.  voL  i.  p.  480*)  Neither  so,  nor  so.  For, 
First,  Pembroke  doth  not  stand  "  in  the  bowels  of  Wales,"  but  almost 
on  the  outside  of  it ;  as  being  situate  on  one  of  the  creeks  of  Milford- 
Haven. 

Fuller.— Pembroke  (though  verging  to  the  sea)  may  properly 
be  called  "  in  the  bowels  of  Wales,''  beholding  the  Marches  (next 
England)  as  the  outward  skin  thereof.  Bowels  are  known  to  the 
Latins  by  the  name  of  penetralia^  a  penetrando ;  one  must  pierce 
and  pass  so  far,  from  the  outward  skin,  before  one  can  come  at  them. 
So  is  Pembroke  placed  in  the  very  penetrdk  of  Wales,  seeing  the 
traveller  must  go  sixscore  miles  from  England,  before  he  can  come 
thither. 

89.  Dr.  Heylin. — And,  Secondly,  king  Henry  VII.  did  not  "break 
down  the  partition-wall  between  Wales  and  England."  That  was  a 
work  reserved  for  king  Harry  VIII.  in  the  27th  of  whose  reign  there 
passed  an  Act  of  Parliament,  by  which  it  was  enacted,  "that  the 
country  of  Wales  should  be,  stand,  and  continue  for  ever,  from  thence- 
forth, incorporated,  united,  and  annexed  to  and  with  this  realm  of 
JBkigland ;  and  that  all  and  singular  person  and  persons,  bom  and  to 
be  bom  in  the  said  principality,  country,  or  dominion  of  Wales,  shaU 
have,  enjoy,  and  inherit  all  and  singular  freedoms,  liberties,  rights, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANiMADVfiRSlONS  ON  THK  CHURCH-HISTORV,  BOOR  IV.     448 

t>riyilege%  and  laws  within  this  realm,  and  other  the  kind's  dominions^ 
as  other  the  king^s  subjects  naturally  bom  within  the  same  hare,  and 
enjoy,  and  inherit."  • 

And,  Thirdly,  between  the  time  which  our  author  speaks  of,  being 
tlie  fourteenth  year  of  king  Henry  IV.  and  the  making  of  this  Act  by 
king  Henry  VIII.  there  passed  abore  an  hundred  and  twenty  years ; 
which  intimates  a  longer  time  than  "  some  years  after,"  as  our  author 
words  It 

Fuller.— Far  be  it  from  me  to  set  variance  betwixt  father  and 
son,  and  to  make  a  partition- wall  betwixt  them,  which  of  them  first 
did  break  down  the  partition-wall  betwixt  Wales  and  England. 
The  intentions  of  king  Henry  VII.  were  executed  by  king  Henry 
VIII.;  and  all  shall  be  reformed  in  my  book  accordingly.  Our 
author  proceeds  :^ 

90.  Dr.  Heylin. — "  I  will  not  complain  of  the  deamess  of  this 
Unirersity;  where  seventeen  weeks  cost  me  more  than  seventeen 
years  in  Cambridge,  even  all  that  I  had."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  490.) 
The  ordinary  and  unwary  reader  might  collect  from  hence,  that  Oxford 
is  a  chargeable  place,  and  that  all  commodities  there  are  exceeding 
dear,  but  that  our  author  lets  him  know  that  it  was  on  some  occasion 
of  disturbance. 

Fuller. — He  must  be  a  very  "  ordinary  and  unwary  reader '' 
indeed,  or  an  extraordinary  one  (if  you  please)  of  no  common  weak- 
ness or  wilfulness,  so  to  understand  my  words,  which  plainly  expound 
themselves. 

Dr.  Heylin. — Bj  which  it  seems  our  author  doth  relate  to  the 
time  of  the  war,  when  men  from  all  parts  did  repair  to  Oxford,  not  as 
a  University,  but  a  place  of  safety,  and  the  seat-royal  of  the  king ;  at 
which  time,  notwithstanding,  all  provisions  were  so  plentiful  and  at 
Buch  cheap  rates,  as  no  man  had  reason  to  complain  of  the  deamess  of 
them.  No  better  argument  of  the  fertility  of  the  soil  and  richness  of 
the  country  in  which  Oxford  standeth,^  than  that  the  markets  were  not 
raised  on  the  accession  of  such  infinite  multitudes  as  resorted  to  it  at 
that  time,  and  on  that  occasion.  Our  author  therefore  must  be 
thought  to  relate  unto  somewhat  else  than  is  here  expressed ;  and  pos-^ 
sibly  may  be,  that  his  being  at  Oxford  at  that  time  brought  him  within 
the  compass  of  "  delinquency,"  and,  consequently,  of  sequestration. 

Fuller. — I  commend  the  carefulness  of  the  Animadvertor, 
tender  of  the  honour  of  Oxford  and  Oxfordshire  his  native  country, 
as  I  have  heard  from  his  own  mouth.  But  herein  his  jealousy  had 
not  just  cause,— nothing  derogatory  thereunto  being  by  me  intended 
herein.  Oxfordshire  hath  in  it  as  much  of  Rachel  and  Leah,  "  fair- 
ness and  fruitfulness,"  as  in  any  county  in  England ;  and  so,  God 

•  27  Hewy  VIII.  cap.26. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


444  APPJSAL  Ot  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  IL 

villmg,  in  my  description  of  the  English  Worthies,  I  shall  make 
io  appear. 

Dr.  Hetlin. — And  were  it  so,  he  hath  no  reason  to  complain  ot 
the  Uniyersitj,  or  the  deamess  of  it ;  hut  rather  of  himself,  for  coming 
to  a  place  so  chacgeahle  and  destructiye  to  him.  He  might  haTe  tar- 
ried where  he  was,  (for  I  never  heard  that  he  was  sent  for,)  and  then 
this  great  complaint  against  the  deamess  of  that  University  would  have 
found  no  place. 

Fuller. — I  was  once  sent  up  thither  from  London ;  being  one 
of  the  six,  who  were  chosen  \o  carry  a  petition  for  peace  to  his 
majesty,  from  the  city  of  Westminster  and  the  liberties  thereof, 
though  in  the  way  remanded  by  the  Parliament. 

As  for  my  being  sent  for  to  Oxford,  the  Animadvertor,  I  see,  hath 
not  heard  of  all  that  was  done.  I  thought  that  as  St.  Paul  wished 
all  "  altogether  such  as  he  was,  except  these  bonds ; ""  (Acts  xxvi. 
29 ;)  so  the  Animadvertor  would  have  wished  all  Englishmen  like 
himself,  ^'save  in  his  sequestration,^^  and  rather  welcomed  than 
jeered  such  as  went  to  Oxford.  But  let  him  say  and  do  as  he 
pleaseth.     Our  author  proceeds  :«— 

91.  Dr.  Hbylin. — "  Surely,  what  Charles  V.  is  said  to  have  said  of 
the  city  of  Florence,  '  that  it  is  pity  it  should  he  seen  save  only  on 
holy-days,' "  &c.  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  499.)  Our  author  is  somewhat 
out  in  this,  in  fathering  that  saying  on  Charles  T.  emperor  and  king 
of  Spain,  which  Botenis  and  all  other  authors  ascribe  to  Charles 
archduke  of  Austria ;  that  is  to  say,  to  Charles  of  Inspmck,  one  of 
the  younger  sons  of  the  emperor  Ferdinand  I.  and  consequently 
^ephew  to  Charles  V. 

Fuller. — Nihil  dictum^  quod  non  dictum  priAs ;  and  it  is  very 
probable,  that  the  one  first  made^  the  other  medy  the  same  expres- 
sion. 

92.  Dr.  Hbylin. — ^Nor  is  our  author  very  right  in  taking  Aquensid 
for  Aix  in  Provence :  "  Especially,"  saith  he,  "  if,  as  I  take  it,  by 
Aquensis  Aix  he  meant,  sited  in  the  farthermost  parts  of  Provence, 
though  even  now  the  English  power  in  France  was  a-waning."  (Ch. 
fiist  vol.  i.  p.  504.)  For,  First,  the  English  never  had  any  power  in 
Provence,  no  interest  at  all  therein,  nor  pretensions  to  it ;  as  neither  had 
the  French  kings  in  the  times  our  author  speaks  of.  Provence  in  those 
days  was  independent  of  that  crown,  an  absolute  estate,  and  held 

immediately  of  the  empire,  as  being  a  part  and  member  of  the  realm 
of  Burgundy,  and  in  the  actual  possession  of  the  dukes  of  Anjou ;  on 
the  expiring  of  which  House,  by  the  last  will  and  testament  of  duke 
Rene  II.  it  was  bequeathed  to  Lewis  XI.  of  France,  by  him  and  his 
successors  to  be  enjoyed  upon  the  death  of  Charles  earl  of  Maine;  as 
it  was  accordingly.     And^  Secondly,  that  Bernard  whom  the  Latin  calls 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTOKY,  BOOK  IV.     445 

^piseopus  Aquensisy  is  rery  ill  taken  by  our  author  to  be  **  bishop  of 
Aix."  He  was  indeed  bishop  of  Acqus  or  Aux  in  Guienne,  called 
ancieiitlj  Aquce  AugustcSy  from  whence  those  parts  of  France  had  the 
name  of  Aquitain ;  and  not  of  Aix,  (which  the  ancient  writers  called 
Aquce  Sexiias^)  in  the  country  of  Proyence.  Now  Gruienne  was  at  that 
time  in  the  power  of  the  kings  of  England,  which  was  the  reason  why 
this  Bernard  was  sent  with  the  rest  of  the  commissioners  to  the 
Council  t>f  Basil ;  and  being  there,  amongst  the  rest,  maintained  the 
rights  and  pre-eminences  of  the  English  kings. 

Fuller. — There  is  nothing  more  destructive  to  truth,  than 
when  writers  are  peremptory  in  affirming  what  seems  doublAil  unto 
them.  Arrant  hypocrisy,  for  the  hand  to  be  positive  in  a  point, 
when  the  head  is  (as  I  may  say)  but  suppositive,  as  not  sufficiently 
satisfied  therein.  Such  men,  because  they  scorn  to  doubt,  lead 
others  quite  out  of  the  way. 

To  prevent  this  mischief,  I  only  said,  "  If,  as  I  take  it,  by 
Aquensis  Aix  be  meant  T^  for  it  seemed  to  me  too  long  a  stride,  (or 
straddle  rather,)  for  the  legs  of  our  English  armies  to  have  any 
power  in  Provence.  And  now,  seeing  it  was  but  half  a  fault  in  me, 
it  doth  not  deserve  the  Animadvertor's  whole  reproof. 

93.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^In  agitating  of  which  controversy,  as  it  stands 
in  our  author,  I  find  mention  of  one  Johannes  de  Voragine,  "a  worth- 
less author."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  507.)  Mistaken  both  in  the  name  of 
the  man,  and  his  quality  also.  For,  First,  the  author  of  the  book 
called  Legenda  Aurea^  related  to  in  the  former  passage,  was  not 
Johannes^  but  Jacobus  de  Voragine.  In  which  book,  though  there 
are  many  idle  and  unwarrantable  fictions ;  yet,  Secondly,  was  the  man 
of  more  esteem  than  to  pass  under  the  character  of  '^  a  worthless 
author,"  as  being  learned  for  the  times  in  which  he  lived,  archbishop 
of  Genoa,  a  chief  city  of  Italy,  et  morihus  et  dignitate  magno  pretio^  as 
Philippus  Bergomensis  teUeth  us  of  him,  anno  1290,  at  what  time  he 
lived ;  most  eminent  for  his  translation  of  the  Bible  into  the  Italian 
toHgue,  (as  we  read  in  Vossius,)*  a  work  of  great  both  difficulty  and 
danger,  as  the  times  then  were,  sufficient  (were  there  nothing  else)  to 
free  him  from  the  ignominious  name  of  "  a  worthless  author." 

Puller. — I  here  enter  my  public  thanks  to  the  Animadvertor^ 
Jacobus  de  Voragine  (so  it  seems  was  his  name)  was  a  better 
author  than  I  took  him  for:  indeed,  having  read  that  Melchior 
Canus  called  the  author  of  some  Legends,  "  a  man  ferrei  oris  et 
phmbei  cordis^  "  one  of  an  iron  face  and  leaden  heart,**  I  con*- 
ceived  him  intended  .therein. 
But  if  he  did  translate  the  Bible  into  Italian,  (as  I  have  cause  tq 

believe,  knowing  nothing  to  the  contrary,)  it  was,  as  the  Animadi- 

•  Vossius  l>f  LaU  HUU 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ iC 


446  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  11. 

VeitoT  suth  welly  ^*  a  work  of  great  both  difficulty  and  danger,  as 
the  times  then  were."" 

I  confess  I  have  formerly,  in  the  table  of  ttiy  esteem,  placed  this 
Voragine  as  the  very  lag  at  the  lowest  end  thereof;  but  hereafter 
I  shall  say  to  him,  "  Come  up  hither,*'  and  provide  a  higher  place 
for  him  in  my  reputation. 

94.  Dr.  Hetlin. — A  greater  mistal%  than  this,  as  to  the  person  of 
the  man,  is  that  which  follows ;  namely,  ^'  Humphrey  duke  of  Glou- 
cester, son  to  king  Henry  V."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  511.)  This  though 
I  cannot  look  on  as  a  fault  of  the  press,  yet  I  can  easily  consider  it  ag 
a  slip  of  the  pen ;  it  being  impossible  that  our  author  should  be  so  far 
mistaken  in  duke  Humphrey  of  Gloucester,  who  was  not  son  but 
brother  to  king  Henry  V. 

Fuller. — This  being  allowed  (as  indeed  it  is)  but  a  pen-slip, 
who  is  more  faulty,— the  author  in  the  cursorily  committing,— or 
the  Animadvertor  in  the  deliberate  censuring  thereof.^ 

Dr.  Hetltn. — But  I  cannot  think  so  charitably  of  some  other 
errors  of  this  kind,  which  I  find  in  his  History  of  Cambridge,  page 
103 ;  where  amongst  the  English  dukes  which  carried  the  title  of  earl 
of  Cambridge,  he  reckoneth  Edmond  of  Langley,  fifth  son  to  Edward 
III.,  Edward  his  son,  Richard  duke  of  York  his  brother,  £aither  to 
king  Edward  JY.  But,  First,  this  Richard  whom  he  speaks  of, 
though  he  were  earl  of  Cambridge  by  the  consent  of  Edward  his  elder 
brother,  yet  was  he  never  duke  of  Tork ;  Richard  being  executed  at 
Southampton  for  treason  against  king  Harry  Y.  before  that  king's 
going  into  France,  and  Edward  his  elder  brother  slain  not  long  after 
in  the  battle  of  Agincourt.  And,  Secondly,  this  Richard  was  not  the 
father,  but  grandfather,  of  king  Edward  lY.  For,  being  married  unto 
Anne;  sister  and  heir  unto  Edmond  Mortimer,  earl  of  March,  he  had 
by  her  a  son  called  Richard,  improvidently  restored  in  blood,  and 
advanced  unto  the  title  of  duke  of  York,  by  king  Henry  YI.  anno 
1426 ;  who  by  the  lady  Cecily  his  wife,  one  of  the  many  daughters  of 
Ralph  earl  of  Westmoreland,  was  father  of  king  Edward  lY.,  George 
duke  of  Clarence,  and  king  Richard  HI.  Thirdly.  As  Richard  earl  of 
Cambridge  was  not  duke  of  York,  so  Richard  duke  of  York  was  not 
^arl  of  Cambridge ;  though  by  our  author  made  the  last  earl  thereof 
(Hist,  of  Cambridge,  p.  226,)  before  the  restoring  of  that  title  on  the 
House  of  the  Hamiltons. 

Fuller. — This  hath  formerly  been  answered  at  large  in  the 
Introduction,*  wherein  it  plainly  appears,  that  the  last  Richard  was 
duke  of  York  and  earl  of  Cambridge ;  though,  I  confess,  it  is 
questionable  whether  his  father  were  duke  of  York. 

However,  it  doth  my  work  ;  namely,  that  the  earldom  of  Cam- 

•  See  page  324  of  this  Tohuoe.— Edit, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  IV.     447 

bridge  was  always  (the  first  ftlone  excepted)  conferred  on  either  it 
foreign  prince,  or  an  English  peer  of  the  blood-royal ;  an  honour 
not  communicated  to  any  other  peer  in  England. 

Dr.  Hetlin. — If  our  author  be  no  better  at  a  pedigree  in  prirate 
families,  than  he  is  in  those  of  kings  and  princes,  I  shall  not  gire  him 
much  for  his  Art  of  Memory^  for  his  History  less,  and  for  his 
Heraldry  just  nothing. 

Fuller. — When  I  intend  to  expose  them  to  sale,  I  know 
where  to  meet  with  a  firanker  chapman.  None  alive  ever  heard  me 
pretend  to  the  art  of  memory,  who  in  my  book  have  decried  it  as  a 
trick,  no  art;*  and,  indeed,  is  more  of  fancy  thati  memory.  I 
confess,  some  ten  years  since,  when  I  came  out  of  the  pulpit  of  St. 
Dunstan'^s  East ;  one  (who  since  wrote  a  book  thereof)  told  me  in 
tie  vestry,  before  credible  people,  that  he  in  Sydney  College  had 
taught  me  the  art  of  memory.  I  returned  unto  him,  that  it  was 
not  so ;  for  lijxndd  not  remember  that  I  had  ever  seen  his  face  ; 
which,  I  conceive,  was  a  real  refutation.  However,  seeing  that  a 
natural  memory  is  the  best  flower  in  mine,  and  not  the  worst  in  the 
Animadvertor'^s  garden,  let  us  turn  our  competitions  herein  unto 
mutual  thankfulness  to  the  God  of  heaven.^f* 

Dr.  Heyltn. — But  I  see  our  author  is  as  good  at  the  succession  of 
bishops,  as  in  that  of  princes.  For,  saith  he,  speaking  of  Cardinal 
Beaufort,  "He  built  the  feir  Hospital  of  St.  Cross  near  Winchester; 
and,  although  Chancellor  of  the  University  of  Oxford,  was  no  grand 
benefactor  thereunto^  as  were  his  predecessors  Wickham  and  Waine* 
fleet."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  612.)  Wickham  and  Wainefleet  are  here 
made  the  predeeessors  of  Cardinal  Beaufort  in  the  see  of  Winchester  ; 
whereas,  in  very  deed,  though    he  succeeded  Wickham    in    that 

•  "  Holy  State,"  title  Mmory. 

t  Fuller's  excellent  condiisicfii  contaixui  a  gratefol  and  txnlj  Christian  acknowledgment 
of  the  bounty  of  Heaven  in  bestowing  upon  him  a  good  natural  memory,  which  he  very 
properly  styles  **  the  best  flower  in  my  garden."  The  subjoined  is  the  account  of  it 
given  by  one  of  his  biographerH : — 

"  He  had  a  memoiy  so  tenacious  and  comprehensive,  that  it  enabled  him  to  do  things 
whieh  are  hardly  creclible.  He  could  repeat  five  hundred  strange  words  after  twice 
hearing,  and  could  make  use  of  a  sermon  verbatim,  if  he  once  heard  it.  He  undertook 
once,  in  passing  to  and  fro,  from  Temple-Bar  to  the  farthest  part  of  Cheapside,  to  tell  at 
hia  return  every  sign  as  it  stood  in  order  on  both  sides  of  the  way,  repeating  them  either 
backwards  or  fi>rwards  :  and  he  did  it  exactly.  His  manner  of  writing  [when  thus  test- 
ing his  memory]  was  very  strange  and  rare,  from  the  top  of  the  page  to  the  bottom^ 
something  like  that  of  fhe  Chinese.  The  manner  was  thus  :  he  would  write  near  the 
margin  the  first  words  of  every  line  dovra  to  the  foot  of  the  paper ;  then,,  by  beginning  at 
the  head  again,  would  so  perfectly  fill  up  eveiy  one  of  these  lines,  as,  without  spaces^ 
interlineations,  or  contractions,  would  so  connect  the  ends  and  beginnings,  that  the 
tense  would  appear  aa  complete,  aa  if  he  had  written  it  in  a  continued  series  after  the 
oidinaiy  manner." — Edit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


448  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  If. 

MBhopriCy  lie  preceded  Widnefleet.  For,  in  the  catalogae  of  the  bishops 
of  Winchester  they  are  marshalled  thus;  namelj,  50,  a.d.  1365,  Wil- 
liam of  Wickham  :  51,  a.d.  1405,  Henry  Beaufort :  52,  a.d.  1447,  Wil- 
liam de  Wainefleet;  which  last  continued  bishop  till  the  year  1486; 
the  see  heing  kept  by  these  three  bishops  abore  one  hundred  and  twenty 
years,  and  therehy  giving  them  great  advantages  of  doing  those  excel- 
lent works,  and  founding  those  famous  Colleges,  which  our  author 
rightly  hath  ascrihed  to  the  first  and  last.  But  whereas  our  author  tell- 
eth  us  also  of  this  Cardinal  Beaufort,  that  he  built  the  Hospital  of  St. 
Cross,  he  is  as  much  out  in  that,  as  he  was  in  the  other ;  that  Hospital 
being  first  huilt  hy  Henry  of  Blois,  hrother  of  king  Stephen  and  bishop 
of  Winchester,  anno  1129;  augmented  only,  and  perhaps  mere  libe- 
rally endowed,  by  this  potent  Cardinal.*  From  these  foundations, 
made  and  enlarged  by  these  three  great  bishops  of  Winchester  succesh 
sively,  proceed  we  to  two  others  raised  by  king  Henry  Yl.  of  which 
our  author  telleth  us : — 

Fuller. — What  a  piece  of  Don-Quixotism  is  this,  for  the  Ani- 
madvertor  to  fight  in  confutation  of  that  which  wa»  formerly  con- 
fessed!  these  words  being  thus  fiiirly  entered  in  the  table  of 
errata : — 

"  Book  iv.  page  512,  line  22,  read  it  thus,  of  his  predecessor 
Wickham^  or  successor  Wainefleet.^ 

Faults  thus  fairly  confessed,  are  presumed  fully  forgiven;  and 
faults  thus  fully  forgiven,  have  their  guilt  returning  no  more.  In 
the  Court  Christian,  such  might  have  been  sued  who  upbraided 
their  neighbours  for  incontinence,  after  they  formerly  had  performed 
public  penance  for  the  same.  And  I  hope  the  reader  will  allow  me 
reparation  from  the  Animadvertor,  for  a  fault  so  causelessly  taxed, 
after  it  was  so  clearly  acknowledged  and  amended.  Our  author 
proceeds :»— .         . 

96.  Dr.  Heylin — "This  good  precedent  of  the  archbishops 
bounty  "  (that  is  to  say,  the  foundation  of  All-Souls  College  by  arch- 
bishop Chicheley)  "  may  be  presumed  a  spur  to  the  speed  of  the  king  s 
liberality ;  who  soon  after  founded  Eaton  College,  &c.  to  be  a  nursery 
to  Kings  College  in  Cambridge."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  pp.  509,  510.) 
Of  Eaton  College,  and  the  condition  of  the  same,  our  author  hath 
spoken  here  at  large ;  but  we  must  look  for  the  foundation  of  King's 
College,  in  the  "History  of  Cambridge,"  page  116;  where  I  find 
something  which  requireth  an  Animadversion.  Our  author  there 
chargeth  Dr.  Heylin  for  avowing  something  which  he  cannot  justify; 
that  is  to  say,  for  saying,  "  That  when  William  of  Wainefleet,  bishop 
of  Winchester,  (afterwards  founder  of  Magdalen  College,)  persuaded 
king  Henry  VI.  to  erect  some  monument  for  learning  in  Oxford, 
fhe  king  returned,  Imo  polius  Cantabrigic^,  ut  duas(sijieri  possiQ 
•  Camden  in  Hampshire,  fol.  267. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  IV.       449 

in  Anglid  Academias  kabeatn.     ^  Yea,  ratber/  said  he,  '  at  Cambridge, 
that  (if  it  be  possible)  I  may  bare  two  UniFersities  in  England/     As 
if  Cambridge  were  not  reputed  one  before  the  founding  of  King^s  Col* 
lege  therein."     But  here  the  premisses  only  are  the  Doctors,  the  infer- 
ence or  conclusion  is  our  author  s  own.     The  Doctor  infers  not  there- 
upon, that  '^Cambridge  was  not  reputed  an  Uniyersity  till  the  founding 
of  King^s  College  by  king  Henry  Y I. ; "  and  indeed  he  could  not :  for 
he  acknowledged  before,  out  of  Robert  de  Remington,  that  it  was 
made  an  Uniyersity  in  the  time  of  king  Edward  II.     All  that  the 
Doctor  says   is  this,  '^  that  as  the  Uniyersity  of  Cambridge  was  of  a 
later  foundation  than  Oxford  was,  so  it  was  long  before  it  grew  into 
esteem ; "  that  is  to  say,  to  such  a  measure  of  esteem  at  home  or 
abroad,  (before  the  building  of  King's  College,  and  the  rest  that  fol- 
lowed,) but  that  the  king  might  use  those  words  in  his  discourse  with 
the  bishop  of  Winchester.    And  for  the  narratiye,  the  Doctor  (whom 
I  haye  talked  with  in  this  business)  doth  not  shame  to  say,  that  he 
boiTowed  it  from  tliat  great  treasury  of  academical  antiquities,  Mr« 
Brian  Twyne,  whose  learned  works  stand  good  against  all  opponents ; 
and  that  he  found  the  passage  justified  by  sir  Isaac  Wake  in  his  Rex 
Platonicus :  two  persons  of  too  great  wit  and  judgment  to  relate  a 
matter  of  this  nature  on  no  better  ground  than  common  Table-talk^ 
and  that  too  spoken  in  merriment  by  sir  Henry  Saville.    Assuredly  sir 
Henry  SayiUe  was  too  great  a  zealot  for  that  Uniyersity,  and  too  much 
a  friend  to  Mr.  Wake,  who  was  Fellow  of  the  same  College  with  him, 
to  have  his  Table-talk  and  discourses  of  merriment  to  be  put  upon 
record,  as  gronnds  and  arguments  for  such  men  to  bUild  on  in  that 
weighty  controyersy.    And  therefore  when  our  author  tells  us,  what 
he  was  told  by  Mr.  Hubbard,  Mr.  Hubbard  by  Mr.  Barlow,  Mr. 
Barlow  by  Mr.  Bust,  and  Mr.  Bust  by  sir  Henry  Sayille,  it  brings  into 
my  mind  the  like  pedigree  of  as  true  a  story,  eyen  that  of  mother 
Miso  in  sir  Philip  Sidney,  telling  the  young  ladies  an  old  tale,  ^^  which 
a  good  old  woman  told  her,  which  an  old  wise  man  told  her,  which  a 
gfeat  learned  clerk  told  him,  and  gaye  it  him  in  writing ;  and  there 
she  had  it  in  her  prayer-book ;  "  as  here  our  author  hath  found  this  on 
the  end  of  his  creed.     Not  much  unlike  to  which  is  that  which  I  find 
in  the  poet : — 

Qua  Phabo  Pater  omnipotent,  mihi  Phabus  Apollo 
Pradimt,  vobit  Furiarum  ego  maxima  pando  j 

Ihat  is  to  say, — 

"  What  Jove  told  Phcsbus,  Phcebua  told  to  in«, 
And  I,  the  chief  of  Furies,  tell  to  thee." 

Puller. — ^Tlie  controversy  betwixt  us  consists  about  a  pre- 
tended speech  of  king  Henry  VI.  to  bishop  Wainefleet,  persuad- 
ing him  to  found  a  College  at  Oxford.  To  whom  the  king  is  said 
to  return,  "  Yea,  rather  at  Cambridge,  that  (if  it  be  possible)  I 
niay  have  two  Universities  in  England.'' 

6   & 

DigitizecTby  VjOOQIC 


.450  APPBAXt  OF  INJURED  INNOCSNCS.  PART  II. 

A  passage  pregnant  with  an  inference,  which  delivereth  itself 
without  any  midwifery  to  help  it ;  namely,  that  till  the  time  of 
king  Henry  VI.  Cambridge  was  no — or  but  an  obscure^— Unive^ 
sity ;  both  being  equally  untrue. 

The  Animadvertor  will  have  the  speech  grounded  on  good 
authority,  whilst  I  more  than  suspect  it  to  have  been  the  frolic  of 
the  fancy  of  sir  Isaac  Wake,  citing  my  author  for  my  belief;  which, 
because  removed  four  descents,  is,  I  confess,  of  the  less  validity. 
Yet  is  it  better  to  take  a  truth  from  the  tenth  than  a  falsehood 
from  the^r^  hand. 

Both  our  relations  ultimately  terminate  in  sir  Isaac  Wake,  bj 
the  Animadvertor  confessed  the  first  printed  reporter  thereof.  I 
confess  sir  Isaac  Wake  needed  none  but  sir  Isaac  Wake  to  attest 
the  truth  of  such  thing  which  he  had  heard  or  seen  himself.  In 
such  case,  his  bare  name  commandeth  credit  with  posterity.  But 
relating  a  passage  done  at  a  distance,  some  years  before  his  great- 
grandfather was  rocked  in  his  cradle,  we  may  and  must  do  that 
right  to  our  own  judgment,  as  civilly  to  require  of  him  security  for 
what  he  affirmeth,  especially  seeing  it  is  so  clogged  with  sucK 
palpable  improbability.  Wherefore,  till  this  knight's  invisible 
author  be  brought  forth  into  light,  I  shall  remain  the  more  con- 
firmed in  my  former  opinion,  Bea  Platonicm  alone  sounding  to  me 
in  ihis  point  no  more  than  Plato's  Commonwealth;  I  mean,  a 
mere  wit*work>  or  brain-being,  without  any  other  real  existence  in 
nature, 

97.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^But,  to  proceed :  "This  was  that  Nevill,  who,  for 
extraction,  estate,  alliance,  dependents,  wisdom,  valour,  success,  and 
popularity,  was  superior  to  any  English  subject  since  the  Conquest." 
(Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  517.)  Our  author  speaks  this  of  that  Richard 
Nevill,  who  was  first  earl  of  Warwick,  in  right  of  Anne  his  wife, 
sister  and  heir  of  Henry  Beauchamp,  the  last  of  that  femily,  and  afler 
earl  of  Salisbury  by  descent  from  his  father;  a  potent  and  popular 
man  indeed,  but  yet  not  in  all  or  in  any  of  those  respects  to  be 
matched  with  Henry  of  Bolingbroke,  son  to  John  of  Gaunt,  whom 
our  author  must  needs  grant  to  have  lived  since  the  time  of  the  Con- 
quest. Which  Henry,  aflker  the  death  of  his  father,  was  duke  of  Lan- 
caster and  Hereford,  earl  of  Leicester,  Lincoln,  and  Derby,  &c.,  and 
Lord  High  Steward  of  England ;  possessed,  by  the  donation  of  king 
Henry  III.,  of  the  county  palatine  of  Lancaster,  the  forfeited  estates 
of  Simon  de  Montfort  earl  of  Leicester,  Robert  de  Ferrars  earl  of 
Derby,  and  John  lord  of  Monmouth ;  by  the  compact  made  between 
Thomas  earl  of  Lancaster,  and  Alice  his  wife,  of  the  honour  of  Ponte- 
fract,  the  whole  estate  of  the  earl  of  Lincoln,  and  a  great  part  of  the 
estates  of  the  earl  of  Salisbury ;  of  the  goodly  territories  of  Ogmore 
and  Kidwelly  in  Wales,  in  right  of  his  descent  from  the  Chaworths ; 
of  the  honour  and  castle  of  Hertford,  by  the  grant  of  king  Edward 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  IV.    451 

til. ;  and  of  the  honour  of  Tickhill  in  Yorkshire^  by  the  donation  of 
king  Richard  ll. ;  and  finaUj  of  a  moiety  bf  the  vast  estate  of  Hum- 
phrey de  Bofaun  earl  of  Hereford,  Essex,  and  Northampton,  in  right  t»f 
his  wife.  So  royal  in  his  extraction,  that  he  was  grandchild  unto  one 
king,  conBin-german  to  another,  £Bither  and  gtand&ther  to  two  more. 
So  popular  when  a  private  person,  and  that  too  in  the-  life  of  his 
&ther,  that  he  was  able  to  raise  and  head  an  army  against  Richard 
IT.,  with  which  he  discomfited  the  king^s  forces,  under  the  command 
of  the  duke  of  Ireland.  So  fortunate  in  his  successes,  that  he  not  only 
had  the  better  in  the  battle  mentioned,  but  came  off  with  honour  and 
renown  in  the  war  of  Africa,  and  finally  obtained  the  crown  of  Eng- 
land. And  this,  I  trow,  renders  him  much  superior  to  our  author  s 
Nevill,  whom  he  exceeded  also  in  this  particular, — ^that  he  died  in  his 
bed,  and  left  his  estates  untx)  his  son.  But  haying  got  the  crown  by 
the  murder  of  his  predecessor,  it  stayed  but  two  descents  in  his  line, 
being  unfortunately  lost  by  king  Henry  YI. :  of  whom,  being  taken 
and  imprisoned  by  those  of  the  Yorkish  faction,  our  author  telleth  us— 

Fi7Li.EE. — ^It  never  came  into  my  thoughts,  to  extend  the 
parallel  beyond  the  line  of  subjection)  confining  it  to  such  as  mored 
only  in  that  sphere,  livinff  and  dffing  in  the  station  of  a  stibjeet ; 
and  thus  &r,  I  am  sure,  I  am  right,  that  this  our  Nevill  was  not 
equalled,  much  less  exceeded,  by  any  Englishman  since  the  Con- 
quest. 

As  for  Henry  duke  of  Lancaster,  his  coronet  was  afterwards 
turned  into  a  crown ;  and  I  never  intended  comparison  with  one 
who  became  a  sovereign,  having  learned,  primum  in  unoquoque 
genere  est  excipiendum. 

The  Animadvertor  hath  here  taken  occasion  to  write  much  ;  but 
thereof  nothing  to  confute  me,  and  little  to  inform  others.  He 
deserved  to  be  this  king  Henry^s  chaplain,  (if  living  in  that  age,) 
for  his  exactness  in  the  distinct  enumeration  of  all  his  dignities  and 
estates  before  he  came  to  the  crown. 

98.  Dr.  Heyun.— "  That  statesmen  do  admire  how  blind  the  policy 
of  that  age  was,  in  keeping  king  Henry  alive  ;  there  being  no  such  sure 
prison  as  a  grave  for  a  captive  king,  whose  life  (though  in  restraint)  is 
a  fair  mark  for  the  full  aim  of  malcontents  to  practise  his  enlarge- 
ment." (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  518.)  Our  author  might  have  spared  Uiis 
doctrine,  so  frequently  in  practice  amongst  the  worldly  politicians  of 
all  times  and  ages,  that  there  is  more  need  of  a  bridle  to  hold  them  in, 
than  a  spur  to  quicken  them.  Parce^  precor^  stimulis^  et  fortius 
utere  loris^*  had  been  a  wholesome  caveat  there,  had  any  friend  of  his 
been  by  to  have  advised  him  of  it.  The  murdering  of^  deposed  and 
captive  princes,  though  too  often  practised,  never  found  advocates  to 
plead  for  it,  and  much  less  preachers  to  preach  for  it,  until  these  latter 

•  OviDH  Met.  lib.  ii. 

2  G  2  >-  T 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


452  AP!»BAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE:.  PART  If. 

times :  first  made  a  Inaxim  of  state  in  the  school  of  Machiavel,  >nr1io 
lays  it  down  for  an  aphorism  in  point  of  policy ;  namely,  "  that  great 
persons  must  not  at  all  be  touched  ;  or,  if  they  be,  must  be  made  sure 
from  taking  revenge  : "  *  inculcated  afterwards  by  the  lord  Gray,  who, 
being  sent  by  king  James  to  intercede  for  the  life  of  his  mother,  did 
underhand  solicit  her  death,  and  whispered  nothing  so  much  in  queen 
Elizabeth's  ears,  as,  Moriua  non  mordet :  ^'  If  the  Scots'  queen  were 
once  dead,  she  would  never  bite/'t  But  never  pressed  so  home, 
never  so  punctually  applied  to  the  case  of  kings,  as  here  I  find  it  by 
oar  author ;  of  whom  it  cannot  be  affirmed,  that  he  speaks  in  this  case 
the  sense  of  others,  but  positively  and  plainly  doth  declare  his  own. 
No  such  divinity  preached  in  the  schools  of  Ignatius,  though  fitter  for 
the  pen  of  a  Mariana,  than  of  a  divine  or  minister  of  the  church  of 
England.  Which  whether  it  passed  from  him  before  or  since  the  last 
sad  accident  of  this  nature,  it  comes  all  to  one ;  this  being  like  a  two- 
handed  sword,  made  to  Strike  on  both  sides,  and,  if  it  come  too  late 
for  instruction,  will  serve  abundantly  howsoever  for  the  justification. 
Another  note  we  have,  within  two  leaves  after,  as  derogatory  to  the 
honour  of  the  late  archbishop,  as  this  is  dangerous  to  the  estate  of  all 
sovereign  princes,  if  once  they  chance  to  happen  into  the  hands  of 
their  enemies.  But  of  this  our  author  will  give  me  an  occasion  to 
speak  more  in  another  place,  and  then  he  shall  hear  further  from  me. 

Fuller. — My  words,  as  by  me  laid  down,  are  so  far  from  being 
*'  a  two-handed  sword,'^  they  have  neither  hilt  nor  blade  in  them ; 
only  they  hold  out  an  handle  for  me,  thereby  to  defend  myself.  I 
gay,  "  Statesmen  did  admire  at  the  preserving  king  Henry  alive," 
and  render  their  reason.  If  the  Animadvertor  takes  me  foj  a  states- 
man, (whose  general  judgment  in  this  poifit  I  did  barely  relate,)  he 
is  much  mistaken  in  me. 

Reason  of  state  and  reason  of  religion  are  stars  of  so  different  an 
horizon,  that  the  elevation  of  the  one  is  the  depression  of  the  other. 
Not  that  God  hath  placed  religion  and  right  reason  diametrically 
opposite  in  themselves,  so  that  wherever  they  meet  they  must  fall 
out  and  fight.  But  reason,  bowed  by  politicians  to  their  present 
interest,  (that  is,  Achitophelism,)  is  enmity  to  religion.  But  the 
less  we  touch  this  harsh  string,  the  better  music. 

99.  Dr.  Heylin. — Now,  to  go  on :  "The  duke  requested  of  king  Rich- 
^d  the  earldom  of  Hereford,  and  Hereditary  Constableship  of  England." 
(Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p,  528.)  Not  so,  it  was  not  the  earldom,  that  is  to  say, 
the  title  of  earl  of  Hereford,  which  the  duke  requested ;  but  so  much  of 
the  lands  of  those  earls  as  had  been  formerly  enjoyed  by  the  House  of 
Lancaster.  Concerning  which  we  are  to  know,  that  Humphrey  ^e 
Bohun,  the  last  earl  of  Hereford,  left  behind  him  two  daughters  only ; 
of  whom  the  eldest,  called  Eleanor,  was  married  to  Thomas  of  Wood- 

•  «  History  of  Flounce."  f  C^mj5en's  «  Annak,"  anno  1586. 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ  l€ 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HlSTOIlY,  BOOK  IV.     4$3 

stocky  duke  of  Gloucester ;  Mary,  the  other,  married  unto  Henry  of 
Bolingbroke,  earl  of  Derby.  Betwixt  these  two,  the  estate  was 
parted ;  the  one  moiety,  which  drew  after  it  the  title  of  Hereford,  fall- 
ing to  Henry  earl  of  Derby  ;  the  other,  which  drew  after  it  the  office 
of  Constable,  to  the  duke  of  Gloucester.  But  the  duke  of  Gloucester 
being  dead,  and  his  estate  coming  in  fine  unto  his  daughter,  who  was 
not .  able  to  contend,  Henry  Y .  forced  her  unto  a  subdirision,  laying 
one  half  of  her  just  partage  to  the  other  moiety.  But  the  issue  of 
Henry  of  Bolingbroke  being  quite  extinct  in  the  person  of  Edward 
prince  of  Wales,  son  of  Henry  YI.  these  three  parts  of  the  lands  of 
the  earls  of  Hereford,  haying  been  formerly  incorporated  into  the  duchy 
of  Lancaster,  remained  in  possession  of  the  Crown,  but  were  con- 
ceived by  this  duke  to  belong  to  him,  as  being  the  diriect  heir  of  Anne 
daughter  of  Thomas  duke  of  Gloucester,  and  consequently  the  direct 
heir  also  of  the  house  of  Hereford.  This  was  the  sum  of  his  demand. 
Nor  do  I  find  that  he  made  any  suit  for  the  office  of  Constable,  or  that 
he  needed  so  to  do,  he  being  then  Constable  of  England,  as  his  son, 
Edward  the  last  duke  of  Buckingham  of  that  family,  was  after  him. 

FuLLteB. — ^The  cause  of  their  variance  is  given-in  differently  by 
several  authors.  Some  say,  that  at  once  this  duke  requested  three 
things  of  king  Richard:  1.  Power.  2.  Honour.  3.  Wealth. 
First.  Power^  to  be  Hereditary  Constable  of  England  ;  not  to  hold 
it  as  he  did  pro  arbitrio  regis^  but  in  the  right  of  his  descent. 
Secondly.  Honou/ty  the  earldom  of  Hereford.  Thirdly.  Wealthy 
that  partage  of  land  mentioned  by  the  Aniraadvertor.  I  instanced 
only  in  the  first ;  the  pride  of  this  duke  being  notoriously  known  to 
be  more  than  his  covetousness,  not  denying  but  that  the  king^s 
denial  of  the  land  he  requested  had  an  effectual  influence  on  his 
discontent.     Our  author  proceeds ;— - 

100.  Dr.  Heylin. — "  At  last  the  coming-in  of  the  lord  Stanley, 
with  three  thousand  fresh  men,  decided  the  controversy  on  the  earl's 
side."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  530.)  Our  author  is  out  in  this  also.  It 
was  not  the  lord  Stanley,  but  his  brother  sir -William  Stanley,  who 
came  in  so  seasonably,  and  thereby  turned  the  scale,  and  changed  the 
fortune  of  the  day.  For  which  service  he  was  afterward  made  Lord 
Chamberlain  of  the  new  king's  household,  and  advanced  to  great 
riches  and  estates,  but  finally  beheaded  by  that  very  king  for  whom 
and  to  whom  he  had  done  the  same.  But  the  king  looked  upon  this 
action  with  another  eye ;  and  therefore  when  the  merit  of  this  service 
was  interposed  to  mitigate  the  king's  displeasure,  and  preserve  the 
man,  the  king  remembered  very  shrewdly,  that  as  he  came  soon 
enough  to  win  the  victory,  so  he  stayed  long  enough  to  have  lost  it. 

Fuller.— Though  a  courteous  prolepsis  might  salve  all  the 
matter,  yet  (to  prevent  exceptions)  in  my  next  edition,  the  lord 
shall  be  degraded  into  sir  William  Stanley. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


454  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  H. 


BOOK    V. 

RELATING  TO  THE  TIME  OK  KING  HENRY  VXII. 

101.  Dr.  Hetlin.— We  are  now  come  to  ihe  busy  times  of  king 
Heniy  YIII.,  in  wliich  the  power  of  the  ehoroh  was  much  diminished, 
though  not  reduced  to  such  ill  tenns  as  our  author  makes  it.  We 
have  him  here  laying  his  foundations  to  orerthrow  that  little  which  is 
left  of  the  church's  rights.  His  superstructures  we  shall  see  in  tlie 
times  ensuing,  more  seasonable  for  the  practice  of  that  authority  whicH 
in  this  fifth  book  he  hammereth  only  in  the  speculation. 

Fuller.— I  deny  and  defy  any  such  design,  to  overthrow  the 
foundations  of  the  church'*s  rights.  **If  the  foundations  be 
destroyed,  what  can  the  righteous  do  ?  **  If  my  back  could  but- 
tress them  up,  it  should  not  be  wanting.  However,  I  am  not  sen- 
sible that  any  such  invasion  was  made  on  the  true  property  of  the 
church,  but  that  the  king  resumed  what  by  God  was  invested  in 
him,  and  what  by  the  pope  was  unjustly  taken  from  him ;  though 
none  can  justify  every  particular  in  the  managery  of  the  Refomi- 
ation. 

Dr.  HEYLiN.-^But,  First,  we  will  begin  with  such  Animadversions 
as  relate  unto  this  time  and  story,  as  they  come  in  our  way ;  leaving 
jnich  principles  and  positions  as  concern  the  church,  to  the  close  of  all ; 
where  we  shall  draw  them  all  together,  that  our  discourse  and  observ- 
ations thereupon  may  come  before  the  reader  without  interruption. 

And  the  first  thing  I  meet  with,  is  a  fault  of  omission ;  Dr.  New- 
len,  who  succeeded  Dr.  Jackson  in  the  Presidentship  of  Corpus  Christi 
College  ip  Oxford,  anno  1640,  by  a  free  election,  and  in  a  statutable 
way,  being  left  out  of  our  author  s  catalogue  of  the  Presidents  of  C, 
C.  C,  ill  Oxford;  (Ch.  Hist,  vol  ii.  p.  10;)  and  Dr.  Stanton,  who 
came  in  by  the  power  of  the  Visitors  above  eight  years  after,  being 
placed  therein.  Which  I  thought  fit  (though  otherwise  of  no  great 
moment)  to  take  notice  of,  that  I  might  do  the  honest  man  that  right 
which  our  author  doth  not. 

Puller. — Would  the  Animadvertor  had  given  me  the  Christian, 
as  well  as  the  surname  of  the  Doctor,  that  I  may  enter  it  in  my 
next  edition  !     But  I  will  endeavour  some  other  ways  to  recover  it. 

Such,  and  greater,  omissions  often  attend  the  pens  of  the  most 
exact  authors.  Witness  the  lord  Stanhope,  created  baron  of 
Harington  in  Northamptonshire,  tertio  Jacobin  left  out  in  all  the 
editions  (Latin  and  English)  of  the  industrious  and  judicious  Mr. 
Camden  ;  though  his  junior  baron  (the  lord  Arundel  of  Wardour) 
be  there  inserted.     This  his  omission  proceeded  not  from  the  least 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THfi  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  V.      455 

neglect,  as  I  protest  my  innocence  in  the  casual  pretention  of  Dr. 
Newlen.     Our  author  proceeds  :— 

302, 103.  Dr.  Hbylin. — "  King  Henry  endeayonred  an  uniformity 
of  grammar  all  oyer  his  dominions ;  that  so  youths,  though  changiog 
their  schoolmasters,  might  keep  their  learning."  (Ch.  Hist.  Tol.  ii. 
p.  12.)  That  this  was  endeavoured  by  king  Henry,  and  at  last  enjoined, 
I  shall  easily  grant.  But  then  our  author  should  haye  told  us,  (if  at 
least  he  knew  it,)  that  the  first  hint  thereof  proceeded  from  the  Con- 
vocaf^a  in  the  year  1590 ;  in  which,  complaint  being  made,  quod  mul* 
tiplex  et  varius  in  scholis  grammeUicalibus  modug  esset  docendi^  S^Cm 
^*  that  the  multiplicity  of  grammars  did  much  hurt  to  learning ; "  it  was 
thought  meet  by  the  prelates  and  dergy  then  assembled,  ut  una  ei 
eadem  edatur  formula  auctoritate  hujus  sacra  synodic  in  qudlibel  ei 
tinguld  schold  grammaticali  per  Cantuariensem  provinciatn  usitanda 
et  edooenda  ;  *  that  is  to  say,  ^^  that  one  only  form  of  teaching  grammar 
should  be  enjoined  from  thenceforth  by  the  authority  of  the  Conyoca- 
tion,  to  be  used  in  all  the  grammar-schools  of  the  proyince  of  Canter- 
bury." Which  being  so  agreed  upon,  Lolly,  then  schoolmaster  of  St. 
Paul's  school,  was  thought  the  fittest  man  for  that  undertakings;  and 
he  performed  his  part  so  well,  that,  within  few  years  after,  it  was 
enjoined  by  the  king's  proclamation  to  be  used  in  all  the  schools 
throughout  the  kingdom.  But  here  we  are  to  note  withal,  that  our 
author  anticipates  this  business,  placing  it  in  the  eleyenth  year  of  this 
king,  anno  1519;  whereas  the  Conyocation  took  not  this  into  consi- 
deration till  the  eighth  of  March,  anno  1530 ;  and  certainly  would  not 
haye  meddled  in  it  then,  if  the  king  had  settled  and  enjoined  it  so 
long  before. 

Fuller. — The  Anlmadvertor  discovers  much  indiscretion,  in 
cavilling  at  a  well-timed  truth  in  my  book,  and  substituting  a  false* 
hood  in  the  room  thereof. 

The  endeavour  of  Henry  VIII.  for  uniformity  of  grammar 
throughout  all  his  dominions,  begun  (as  I  have  placed  it)  1519, 
William  Lilly  being  the  prime  person  employed  for  the  composure 
thereof. 

Indeed,  it  met  not  with  universal  reception  for  some  years ; 
(liabits^  not  Jbeing  easily  deposed  \)  and  therefore  the  Convocation, 
concurring  with  the  king^s  pleasure  therein,  added  their  assistance 
in  the  year  1530,  as  the  Animadvertor  observeth ;  and  soon  after, 
by  the  king's  proclamation,  the  matter  was  generally  effected. 

But  whereas  he  saith,  that  after  that  time,  1530,  **  William  Lilly 
was  thought  the  fittest  ttian  for  that  undertaking;^  let  me  tell  him, 
that  a  man  dead  five,  if  not  eight,  years  before,  was  not  fit  to  make 
a  grammar. 

I  appeal  to  Bale  and  Pits,  both  which  render  William  Lilly  to 

*   Ada  Convocaiidnis,  1530. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


456  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  U. 

die  in  the  year  1525 ;  but  mistaken  herein ;  for  indeed,  he  died 
three  years  before,  if  the  epitaph  on  his  monument,  made  by  his 
son  George  Lilly,  may  be  believed,  in  a  brass  plate  near  the  great 
north  door  of  St,  Paul's  : — 

Gulielmo  LiUio  PauUnw  Scholw  olim  prcecqptori  primario^  et 
Agneti  canjugiy  in  sacratissimo  hujua  templi  ccsmeterio  hinc  a  tergo 
nunc  destructo  comepultisy  Georgitis  Lillius^  hujus  ecdesiw  canonictis, 
parentam  memeriw  pics  conmlens^  tabeUam  hano  ah  amicU  conser- 
wttamy  Kie  reponendam  durarit.  Obiit  iUe  G.  L.  anno  Dom.  1522. 
Calsnd.  Mart.     Viwit  annas  54. 

Wherefore  this  unnecessary  animadversion  to  correct  what  was 
right  before,  might  very  well  have  been  spared.  Our  author  pro- 
ceeds : — 

104.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^  Howsoever,  it  is  probable,  some  other  Gardi- 
ner gathered  the  flowers,  (made  the  collections,)  though  king  Henry 
had  the  honour  to  wear  the  posy."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  13.)  I  am  not 
ignorant  that  the  making  of  the  king's  book  against  Martin  Luther 
is,  by  some  popish  writers,  ascribed  to  Dr.  John  Fisher,  then  bishop  of 
Rochester.  But  this  cavil  was  not  made  till  after  this  king  had 
rejected  the  pope's  supremacy,  and  consequently  the  less  credit  to  be 
given  unto  it.  It  is  well  known,  that  his  father,  king  Henry  VII., 
designed  him  for  the  archbishopric  of  Canterbury,  and  to  that  end 
caused  him  to  be  trained  up  in  all  parts  of  learning  which  might  ena- 
ble him  for  that  place.  But  his  eldest  brother,  prince  Arthur,  djdng, 
and  himself  succeeding  in  the  Crown,  though  he  had  laid  aside  the 
thoughts  of  being  a  priest,  he  could  not  but  retain  that  learning  which 
he  had  acquired,  and  reckon  it  amongst  the  fairest  flowers  which 
adorned  his  diadem.  Too  great  a  clerk  he  was  to  be  called  ^^  Beau- 
deric  junior,"  as  if  he  were  "  as  short  in  learning  of  King  Henry  I. " 
(whom  commonly  they  called  Beauclerk)  "  as  he  was  in  time  ;"  though 
so  our  author  would  fain  have  it.  (History  of  Cambridge,  p.  70  A  little 
learning  went  a  great  way  in  those  early  days ;  which  in  this  king 
would  have  made  no  show,  in  whose  time  both  the  arts  and  languages 
began  to  flourish.  And  if  our  author  doth  not  suspect  this  kings 
lack  of  learnings  he  hath  no  reason  to  suspect  his  lack  of  time  ;  the 
work  being  small,  the  glory  great,  and  helps  enough  at  hand,  if  he 
wanted  any.     But  of  this  enough. 

FuLLER.-^<^No  considerable  variation  from  what  I  have  written, 
so  that  my  answer  thereunto  is  not  required.  Let  him  be  another 
Beauclerk,  instead  of  Beauclerk  junior.     Our  author  proceeds: — 

105.  Dr.  Heylin.—"  Which,  when  finished,  (as  Whitehall,  Hamp- 
ton-Couxt,  &c.,)  he  either  freely  gave  to  the  king,  or  exchanged 
them  on  very  reasonable  considerations."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  H) 
That    Hampton- Court    was   either    "freely  given"  by  Wolsey,    or 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


I 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  V.       457 

Otherwise  *' exchanged  on  very  reasonable  terms,"  I  shall  grant  aa 
easily ;  but  Whitehall  was  none  of  his  to  gire,  as  belonging  to  the 
archbishop  in  the  right  of  the  see  of  York,  and  then  called  York- 
place.  But  the  king's  palace  at  Westminster  being  lately  burnt,  and 
this  house  much  beautified  by  the  Cardinal,  the  king  cast  a  longing  eye 
upon  it ;  and  haying  attainted  the  Cardinal  in  a  praemunire y  he  seized  • 
upon  this  house  with  all  the  furniture  thereof,  as  a  part  of  the  spoil ; 
which  when  he  found  he  could  not  hold,  as  being  the  archbishop's  and 
not  the  Cardinal's,  he  sent  an  instrument  unto  him,  to  be  signed  and 
sealed,  for  the  surrendry  of  his  title  and  estate  therein ;  and  not  con- 
tent to  have  forced  it  from  him,  (the  Cardinal  honestly  declaring  his 
inability  to  make  good  the  grant,)  he  caused  the  dean  and  chapter  of 
York  to  confirm  the  same  unto  him  under  their  common  seal,  in  due 
form  of  law ;  which  being  obtained,  and  much  cost  bestowed  upon  the 
house,  he  caused  it  to  be  called  Whitehall ;  gratifying  the  archbishops 
of  York  with  another  house,  belonging  then  to  the  see  of  Norwich, 
and  now  called  York-house. 

FuLLKE.— My  words  are,  "  He  either  freely  gave  to  the  king, 
or  exchanged  them  ^  (but  I  say  not  freely)  "  on  very  reasonable 
terms.'^  Now,  though  he  did  noi  freely  give  Whitehall  to  the  king, 
he  "exchanged''  it  (though  unwillingly)  "on  very  reasonable'' 
considerations  ;  seeing,  for  bigness,  building,  and  circuit  of  ground, 
it  then  was  worth  ten  of  York -house,  given  to  his  see  in  lieu 
thereof.  However,  the  Animadvertor  is  exact  in  some  circum- 
stances of  this  exchange,  which  I  knew  not  before.  Our  author 
proceeds : — 

106.  Dr.  Heylin. — "  So  that  lately  there  were  maintained  therein 
one  Dean,  eight  Canons,  three  public  Professors,  of  Divinity,  Hebrew, 
and  Greek,  sixty  Students,"  &c.  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  16.)  Our 
author  tells  us,  that  he  spent  "  seventeen  weeks  in  this  University ; " 
flderHy  vol  i.  p.  490 ;)  but  he  that  looks  on  this  and  some  other  pas^ 
sages,  would  think  he  had  not  tarried  there  above  seventeen  hours. 

Fuller. — Yea,  the  Animadvertor  would  persuade  his  reader, 
that  I  never  spent  seventeen  weeks  in  Oxford,  or  in  any  other 
University,  if  all  the  errors  be  bo  many  and  great  as  he  accuseth 
me  of.     But  I  prepare  myself  to  hear  his  charge. 

Dr.  Heylin.— For,  besides  his  omitting  of  Dr.  Newlen  spoken  of 
before,  and  his  giving  of  the  name  of  Censors  to  the  Deans  of  Mag- 
dalen, which  I  find  afterwards,  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  376,)  he  is  very 
much  mistaken  in  the  matters  of  Christ  Church. 

Fuller. — What,  Dr.  Newlen  again  ?  What,  if  I  called  the 
Dean  of  Magdalen  College,  "  the  Censor  ?  "     Grande  piaculum ! 

Do  I  not  confess  it  possible,  that  my  Cambridge  Sibholeth  may 
make  me  lisp  and  mispronounce  the  topical  offices  in  Oxford,  and 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ  l€ 


458  APP£AL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  11. 

pablidy  desired  paid<»i,  when  such  mistakes  ate  commUied? 
Where  hath  the  Aniinadvertor  ]eft  or  lost  his  ingenuity,  that  so 
another  may  look  after,  and  make  use  of  it,  if  so  pleased  ? 

Hereafter  I  shall  remember  that  there  is,  though  not  a  Cemor 
now  living  in  Magdalen  College,  yet  there  was  therein  a  Cenmrer^ 
'  (the  Animadvertor,)  when  no  just  cause  is  given  him. 

I  expected  rather,  that  he  w6uld  have  thanked,  than  censured,  me ; 
who,  being  a  Cambridge-man,  and  finding  their  printed  catalogue 
of  the  Presidents  of  Magdalen  College  imperfect,  as  set  forth  by 
their  own  antiquary  Brian  Twyne,  did  amend  the  same,  by  insert- 
ing  (in  his  due  time)  no  meaner  num  than  Dr.  Walter  Haddon, 
that  famous  and  learned  civilian,  fbimeily  omitted. 

Dr.  Hbtuk^— For,  First,  the  three  Professors,  of  Divinii^,  Hebrew, 
and  Greek,  are  no  necessary  parts  of  that  foundation,  nor  can  be  pro- 
perly said  to  be  founded  in  it.  Till  of  late  times  they  were  and  might 
be  of  other  Colleges,  as  they  are  at  this  present ;  this  College  being 
only  bound  to  pay  them  for  their  annual  pensions  forty  pounds  a-piece. 
In  after-times,  king  James  annexed  a  prebend's  place  in  this  church  to 
the  Professor  of  Divinity,  as  king  Charles  did  another  to  the  Hebrew 
Reader.  But,  for  the  Qreek  Reader,  he  hath  only  his  bare  pension 
from  it,  and  hath  no  other  relation  to  it,  but  by  accident  only ;  the 
last  Greek  Reader  of  this  House  being  Dr.  John  Perin,  who  died  in 
the  year  1615. 

FuLLEit. — I  say  not,  that  those  three  Professors  were  founded  in 
that  College,  but  that  "they  are  maintained  therein.''  And 
seeing  the  College  (as  the  Animadvertor  confesseth)  pays  them 
their  salaries,  my  words  are  subject  to  no  just  exceptions. 

Dr.  Hbylin.— And,  Secondly,  he  is  very  far  short  in  the  number 
of  Students,  diminishing  them  from  an  hundred  to  sixty ;  there  being 
an  hundred  and  one  of  that  foundation  by  the  name  of  Students, 
equivalent  Jo  the  Fellows  of  most  other  Colleges  in  the  revenues  of 
their  place  and  all  advantages  and  encouragements  in  the  way  of  learn- 
ing. But  this,  perhaps,  hath  somewhat  in  it  of  design,  that,  by  mak- 
ing the  foundations  of  Oxford  to  seem  less  than  they  are,  those  in  the 
other  University  might  appear  the  fairer. 

FuLLBR. — It  is  a  mere  pen-slip,  and  shall  be  amended  accord- 
ingly. God  knows  I  hatch  no  such  envious  design,  who  oould  wish, 
that  not  only  sixty,  but  six-score  six  hundred,  were  founded,  &c. 
therein  :  always  provided,  that  the  nursery  exceed  not  the  orchard ; 
and  that  the  Universities,  by  too  large  a  plantation,  breed  not  more 
scholars,  than  the  kingdom  is  able  to  prefer  and  employ.  Our 
author  proceeds  : — 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AKIMADV£RSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTOBV,  BOOK  V.      459 

107-  Dr.  He7LIN.<— ^*  And  here  Wolsey  had  proyided  him  a  second 
vrife;  namdj,  Margaret  countess  of  Alen^on,  sister  to  Francis  king  of 
[France."  (Ch.  Hist  vol.  ii.  p.  18.)  As  much  out  in  his  French  as  his 
English  heraldrj.  For,  First,  the  kdy  Maigaret  here  qpoken  ^f  was 
never  countess,  though  sometimes  duchess  of  Alen9on^  as  being  once 
-wife  to  Charles  the  fourth  duke  thereof.  And,  Seoondlj,  at  the  time 
>vrhen  king  Henr/s  divorce  firom  queen  Catherine  was  first  ^tated, 
this  lady  was  not  in  a  capacity  of  being  projected  for  a  wife  to  king 
Henry  YIII.,  being  then  actutJly  in  the  bed  of  anoth^  Henry;  that  is 
to  say,  Henry  of  Albret  king  of  Navarre,  as  iqppeara  plaiidy  by  the 
articles  of  pacification  which  were  to  be  propounded  for  the  restoring 
of  king  Francis  I.  (being  then  prisoner  in  Spain,  anno  1525)  to  his 
realm  and  liberty.  In  which  it  was  propounded  amongst  other  things, 
that  Francis  should  not  send  any  aid  to  the  said  Henry  of  Albret,  (for 
the  recovery  of  his  kingdom,)  notwithstanding  that  he  had  married 
the  king's  sister;  and  other  sister  that  king  had  none,  but  this  Mar- 
garet only.* 

Fuller. — Margaret  (who  shall  be  amended  duchess)  of  Alen^on 
was  herey  (I  mean  not  just  in  this  year^)  but  in  this  business^  aftex^ 
wards  designed  by  Wolsey  for  a  wife  to  king  Henry.  Our  author 
proceeds :— • 

106.  Db.  Hetxin.— '^^  Yet  had  he  the  whole  revenues  of  York 
archbishopric,  (worth  then  litde  less  than  four  thousand  pounds  yearly,) 
besides  a  large  pension  paid  him  out  of  the  bishopric  of  Winchester." 
(Ch.  Hist.  voL  ii.  p.  25.)  And  a  large  pension  it  was  indeed,  (if  it 
were  a  pension,)  which  amounted  to  the  whole  revenue.  Bat  the 
truth  is,  that  Wolsey,  having  gotten  the  bishopric  of  Winchester,  to  be 
holden  by  him  in  commendatn  with  the  See  of  Yoric,  was  suffered  to 
enjoy  it  till  the  time  of  his  death,  anno  1631.  After  which  time,  as 
Dr.  Edward  Lee  succeeded  him  in  the  church  of  York ;  so  then,  and 
not  before.  Dr.  Stephen  Gardiner,  principal  Secretary  of  State,  was 
made  bishop  of  Winchester,  by  which  name,  and  in  which  capacity,  I 
find  him  active  in  the  Convocation  of  the  following  year. 

fuLL£B.--^For  quietness^  sake,  he  shall  have  the  whole  bishopric ; 
though  I  have  read,  that  after  Wolsey  fell  in  the  king's  displeasure, 
his  reveuue  in  Winchester  (which  he  kept  in  eommendcm)  was 
reduced  to  a  pension.     Our  author  proceeds  :— 

109.  Dr.  Heylin "  The  clergy  of  the  province  of  Canterbury 

alone  bestowed  on  the  king  one  hundred  thousand  pounds,  to  be  paid 
by  equal  portions  in  the  same  year,  say  some;  in  four  years,  say 
others,  and  that  in  my  opinion  with  more  probability."  (Ch.  Hist  vol. 
ii-  p.  34.)  Here  have  we  three  authors  for  one  thing ;  some,  others^ 
and  our  author  himself^  more  knowing  than  all  the  rest  "  in  his  own 
opinion.**     But  all  out  alike.     This  great  sum  was  not  to  be  paid  in 

*  HoLLiNSHEO  in  Harry  VIII. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


460  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  ll. 

one  year,  nor  in  four  years  neither,  but  to  be  paid  by  equal  portions, 
(that  is  to  say,  by  twenty  thousand  pounds  per  annum^J  in  the  five 
years  following.  And  this  appears  plainly  by  the  instrument  or  grant 
itself;  where,  haying  named  the  sum  of  an  hundred  thousand  pounds 
by  them  given  the  king,  they  declare  expressly.  Ad  usum  Tnajesiatis 
ejusdem  intra  quinquiennium  ex  nunc  proxime  et  immediate  sequens 
per  quinque  cequales  portioned  solvenda^  ^c.  The  first  payment  to  be 
made  the  morrow  a^r  Michaelmas-day  then  next  ensuing  after  the 
day  of  the  date  thereof,  which  was  the  22nd  of  March,  1530. 

Fuller. — Not  reckoning  the  first  sum,  which  was  paid  down 
on  the  nail,  that  had  just  four  years  assigned  them  for  the  payment 
of  the  remainder.     Our  author  proceeds : — 

110.  Dr.  Heylin. — "But  he  might  have  remembered,  which  also 
produced  the  peerless  queen  Elizabeth,  who  peifected  the  Reforma- 
tion." (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p,  37.)  Either  our  author  speaks  not  this  for 
his  own  opinion,  as  in  that  before ;  or  if  he  do,  it  is  an  opinion  of  his 
own,  in  which  he  is  not  like  to  find  many  followers.  The  Puritan 
party,  whom  he  acts  for  in  all  this  work,  will  by  no  means  grant  it ; 
comparing  that  most  excellent  lady,  in  their  frequent  pasquils,  to  an 
idle  housewife,  who  sweeps  the  middle  of  the  house  to  make  a  show, 
but  leaves  all  the  dirt  and  rubbish  behind  the  door.  The  grand  com- 
posers of  the  Directory  do  persuade  themselves,  that  "if  the  first 
Reformers  had  been  then  alive,  they  would  have  joined  with  them  in 
the  work,  and  laboured  for  a  further  Reformation."  *  And  what  else 
hath  been  clamoured  for  during  all  her  reign,  and  by  the  ring-leaders  of 
the  faction  endeavoured  ever  since  her  death,  but  to  cany  on  the  work 
of  Reformation  firom  one  step  to  another,  till  they  had  brought  it  unto 
such  a  perfection  as  they  vainly  dreamed  of,  and  of  which  now  we  feel 
and  see  the  most  bitter  consequences?  And  as  for  the  prelatical 
party,  the  "  high  royalists,"  as  our  author  calls  them,  they  conceive  the 
Reformation  was  not  so  perfected  in  the  time  of  that  prudent  queen, 
but  that  there  was  somewhat  left  to  do  for  her  two  successors ;  that  is 
to  say,  the  altering  of  some  Rubrics  in  the  Book  of  Common-Prayer, 
the  adding  of  some  Collects  at  the  end  of  the  Litany,  the  enlargement 
of  the  common  Catechism,  a  more  exact  translation  of  the  Bible  than 
had  been  before,  the  settling  of  the  church  upon  the  canons  of  1603, 
and,  finally,  a  stricter  and  more  hopeful  course  for  suppressing  popery, 
and  for  the  maintenance  both  of  conformity  and  uniformity  by  the 
canons  of  1640. 

Fuller. — I  have  the  company  of  many  honest  and  learned  men 
going  before,  with,  or  after  me,  in  the  same  opinion. 

Perfection,  in  relation  to  the  church,  is  two-fold:  absolute  or 
exact,  gradual  or  comparative  : 

The  former  is  only  Christy's  work  to  perform ;  for  whom  alone 

•  "  Preface  to  the  Directory." 

Digitized  by  CjOOQ IC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  V.       461 

the  honour  is  reserved,  to  present  the  church  "  without  spot  or 
wrinkle  to  his  Father." 

1'he  latter,  namely,  gradual  and  comparative  perfection,  may  be 
attributed  to  particular  militant  churches. 

Queen  Elizabeth  did  gradually  perfect  the  Reformation,  leaving 
it  in  a  far  better  cj)ndition  than  she  found  it  in,  in  the  reign  of  king 
Edward  VI.  Yet  do  I  not  deny  but  that  her  successors  made 
commendable  additions  thereunto;  notwithstanding  all  whose 
endeavours,  I  doubt  not  but  still  something  did  remain  to  be 
amended ;  so  that  it  will  be  perfectio  perfidenda  as  long  as  the 
church  is  militant. 

The  Animadvertor  must  not  strain  up  perfection  (when  applicable 
to  any  church  on  earth)  too  high  to  the  pin,  with  which  ''  the  spirits 
of  just  men  are  made  perfect,''  Heb.  xii.  23.  For  as  long  as  the 
church  hath  a  form  on  earth,  it  will  be  subject  to  deformities^  and 
consequently  will  need  reformation.     Our  author  proceeds : — 

111,  112.  Dr.  Heylin. — "And  now  I  cannot  call  king  Henry  a 
bachelor^  because  once  married ;  nor  a  married  many  because  having  no 
wife;  nor  properly  a  tvidowery  because  his  wife  was  not  dead."  (Ch.  Hist. 
Tol.  ii.  p.  39.)  Our  author  speaks  this  of  Henry  YIII.  immediately 
after  his  divorce,  but  is  much  mistaken  in  the  matter.  King  Henry 
was  so  averse  from  living  without  a  wife,  that  he  thought  it  more 
agreeable  to  his  constitution  to  have  two  wives  together,  than  none  at 
all.  To  that  end,  while  the  business  of  the  divorce  remained  unde- 
cided, he  was  married  privately  to  the  lady  Anne  Boleyn,  on  the  14th 
of  November,*  (Stow  puts  it  off  till  the  25th  of  Jamiary  then  next  fol- 
lowing,) by  Dr.  Rowland  Lee,  his  chaplain,  promoted  not  long  after  to 
the  bishopric  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield ;  the  divorce  not  being  sen- 
tenced till  the  April  following.  And  whereas  our  author  tells  ua  in 
the  following  words,  that  "  soon  after  "  he  was  solemnly  married  to  the 
lady  Anne  Boleyn,  he  is  in  that  mistaken  also.  King  Henry,  though 
he  was  often  married,  yet  would  not  be  twice  married  to  the  same 
woman;  that  being  a  kind  of  bigamy,  or  Anabaptistry  in  marriage,  to 
be  hardly  met  with.  All  that  he  did  in  order  to  our  author  s  meaning 
is,  that  he  avowed  the  marriage  openly,  which  before  he  had  contracted 
in  private ;  the  lady  Anne  Boleyn  being  publicly  showed  as  queen  on 
Easter-eve,  and  solemnly  crowned  on  Whitsunday,  being  June  the 
second.t  Assuredly,  unless  our  author  makes  no  difference  between  a 
coronation  and  a  marriage,  or  between  a  marriage  solemnly  made,  and 
a  public  owning  of  a  marriage  before  contracted ;  king  Harry  cannot 
be  a£Gjined  to  have  married  Anne  Boleyn  solemnly  after  the  divorce, 
as  our  author  telleth  us. 

Fuller. — It  will  rectify  all,  if  I  change  those  words  "having 

•  HoLLiNSHED,  p.  129.  f  Stow  ID  HeDTy  VIII.  p.  662. 

Digitized  by  CjOOQ IC 


APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

BO  wife,^  into,  ^^as  yet  publicly  owning  no  wife  i*^  which  BhaQ  be 
done  accordingly.     Our  author  proceeds  :— 

113.  Dr.  Hetlin. — ^^' Though  many  wild  and  distempered  expres- 
sions be  found  therein,  yet  they  contain  the  protestant  religion  in  ore^ 
which  since,  by  God's  blessing,  is  happily  refined."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  il 
p.  69.)  Our  author  speaks  this  of  a  paper  containing  many  erroneous 
doctrines  presented  by  the  Prolocutor  to  the  Conrocation :  some  few 
of  which,  as  being  part  of  "Wickliffe's  Gospel,  and  chief  ingredients  in 
the  composition  of  the  new  protestant  religion  lately  taken  up,  I  shall 
here  subjoin : — 

^'  1.  That  the  sacrament  of  the  altar  is  nothing  else  but  a  piece  of 
bread,  or  a  little  predie  round-rolnn, 

^  2.  That  priests  hare  no  more  authority  to  minister  sacraments 
than  ^e  laymen  hare. 

*^3.  That  all  ceremonies  accustomed  in  the  church,  which  are  not 
clearly  expressed  in  Scripture^  must  be  taken  away,  because  they  are 
men  s  inyentions. 

"  4.  That  the  church,  commonly  so  called,  is  the  old  synagogue ; 
and  that  the  church  is  the  congregation  of  good  men  only. 

"5.  That  God  never  gare  grace  nor  knowledge  of  holy  Scripture  to  any 
great  estate  or  rich  man ;  and  that  they  in  no  wise  follow  the  same. 

'^  6.  That  all  things  ought  to  be  common. 

^^  7-  That  it  is  as  lawful  to  christen  a  child  in  a  tub  of  water  at 
home,  or  in  a  ditch  by  the  way,  as  in  a  font-stone  in  the  church. 

*^  8.  That  it  is  no  sin  or  offence  to  eat  white-meats,  eggs,  butter, 
cheese,  or  flesh  in  Lent,  or  other  fasting-days  commanded  by  the 
church,  and  received  by  consent  of  Chri^tian  people. 

"9.  That  it  is  as  lawful  to  eat  flesh 'on  Good-Friday,  as  upon 
Easter-day,  or  other  times  in  the  year. 

^'  10.  That  the  ghostly  father  cannot  give  or  enjoin  any  penance  at 
aU. 

^*  11.  That  it  is  sufficient  for  a  man  or  woman  to  make  their  confes- 
sion to  God  alone. 

^'  12.  That  it  is  as  lawful  at  all  times  to  confess  to  a  laymim,  as  to  a 
priest. 

"  13.  That  it  is  sufficient  that  the  sinner  do  say,  ^  I  know  myself  a 
sinn^.' 

^*  14.  That  bishops,  ordinaries,  and  ecclesiastical  judges,  hare  no 
authority  to  give  any  sentence  of  excommunication  or  censure,  ne  yet 
to  absolve  or  loose  any  man  from  the  same. 

"  15.  That  it  is  not  necessary  or  profitable  to  have  any  church  or 
chapel  to  pray  in,  or  to  do  any  divine  service  in. 

"  16.  That  buryings  in  churches  and  church-yards  be  unprofitable 
and  vain. 

"  17.  That  the  rich  and  costly  ornaments  in  the  church  are  rather 
high  displeasure  than  pleasure  or  honour  to  God. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  V.      463 

**  18.  That  our  Lady  was  no  better  than  another  woman,  and  like  a 
bag  of  pepper  or  saflron  when  the  spice  is  out. 

*^  19.  That  prayers,  suffirages,  festing,  or  alms-deeds,  do  not  help  to 
take  away  sin* 

*^  20.  That  holy-days,  ordained  and  instituted  by  the  church,  are  not 
to  be  observed  and  kept  in  reyerence,  inasmuch  as  all  days  and  times 
he  alike. 

'*  21.  That  ploughing  and  carting,  and  such  servile  work,  may  be 
done  in  the  same,  without  any  offence  at  aU,  as  on  other  days. 

^'  22.  That  it  is  sufficient  and  enough  to  believe,  though  a  man  do 
no  good  works  at  all. 

^*  23.  That,  seeing  Christ  hath  shed  his  blood  for  us,  and  redeemed 
us,  we  need  not  to  do  any  thing  at  all,  but  to  believe  and  repent  if  we 
bave- offended. 

*^  24.  That  no  hxmian  constitutions  or  laws  do  bind  any  Christian 
man,  but  sucb  as  be  in  the  Gospels,  Paul's  Epistles,  or  the  New  Testa- 
ment ;  and  that  a  man  may  break  them  without  any  offence  at  all. 

^^25.  That  the  singing  or  saying  of  mass,  matins,  or  even-song,  is 
but  a  roaring,  howling,  whistling,  mumming,  tomring,  and  juggling, 
and  the  playing  on  the  organs  a  foolish  vanity." 

This  is  our  author  s  '^  golden  ore,"  out  of  which  his  new  protestant 
religion  was  to  be  extracted ;  so  happily  refined,  that  there  is  nothing 
of  the  old  Christian  religion  to  be  found  therein.  Which  though  our 
author  doth  defend  as  "  expressions  rather  than  opinions,"  "  the  careers 
of  the  soul,  and  extravagancies  of  human  infirmity,"  as  he  doth  the 
rest;  yet  he  that  looks  upon  these  points,  and  sees  not  in  them  the 
rude  draught  and  lineaments  of  the  Puritan  platform,  which  they  have 
been  hammering  since  the  time  of  Gartwright  and  his  associates,  must 
either  have  better  eyes  than  mine,  or  no  eyes  at  all.  I  see,  our  author 
looks  for  thanks  for  this  discovery,  for  publishing  the  paper  which 
contained  these  new  Protestant  truths;  and  I  give  him  mine. 

Fuller. — I  have  many  things  to  return  in  this  contest :  First, 
Had  I  garbled  the  opinions  of  my  own  head,  and  not^  presented 
them  to  the  reader,  as  I  found  them  presented  in  the  records  of  the 
Convocation,  then  the  Animadvertor  had  had  just  advantage 
against  me. 

Secondly.  He  taketh  exception  at  me  in  his  "  Introduction,^'  for 
not  giving-in  the  degrees  by  which  heterodoxies  in  religion  were 
ejected  and  cast  out :  yet  now  he  is  offended  at  me,  because  I  go 
about  to  do  it,  showing  how  bad  religion  was  before  the  Reform- 
ation, even  in  the  best  professors  thereof. 

Thirdly.  It  is  more  than  probable,  that  these  opinions,  presented 
by  such  as  were  disaffected  to  the  Reformation,  were  not  over- 
favourably  stated,  but  rather  worded  to  the  disadvantage. 

Fourthly.  Some  of  these  opinions,  thus  condemned  by  the  Ani- 
madvertor, are  sound  in  themselves.     I  instance  in  that  which  in 


Digitized  by 


Google 


464  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENGK.  PART  If. 

this  his  list  is  the  eleventli  in  number ;  namely,  "  That  it  is  suffici- 
ent for  a  man  or  woman  to  make  confession  to  God  alone/^  Tbis 
at  this  day  is  defended  by  the  protestant  church ;  which  though 
commending  confession  as  expedient  in  some  cases,  especially  when 
the  afflicted  conscience  cannot  otherwise  get  any  ease,  yet  doth  it 
not  command  it  on  any  as  necessary,  necemtate  prwcepti,  so  that 
the  omission  thereof  should  amount  to  a  sin.  I  am  confident  that 
the  Animadvertor  himself  never  solemnly  confessed  his  sins  to  any 
but  to  God  alone.  And  it  is  injurious  in  him,  to  demand  of 
another  to  do  that  which  was  never  done  by  himself. 

Lastly.  How  unjust  were  it  to  put  all  JeremiaVs  "  bad  figs  by 
themselves,'*''  (Jer.  xxiv.  2,)  and  thence  to  conclude  all  the  rest 
(which  indeed  were  "  very  good")  to  be  like  unto  them  !  Such  the 
dealing  of  the  Animadvertor  herein,  who  hath  culled  out  the  very 
refuse  and  dross  of  the  dross  in  these  opinions,  and  left  out  the 
rest,  then  maintained  by  God^s  people  in  opposition  to  the  enors 
and  superstitions  of  that  age,  some  whereof  are  here  inserted  : — 

"  1.  They  deny  extreme  unction  to  be  any  sacrament. 

"  2,  That  all  those  are  antichrists,  who  deny  the  laity  the  sacra- 
ment under  both  kinds. 

"  3.  That  it  is  plain  idolatry,  to  set  up  any  lights  before  any 
images,  or  in  any  place  of  the  church  in  time  of  divine  service,  as 
long  as  the  sun  giveth  light. 

"  4.  That  auricular  confession  is  invented  to  know  the  secrets  of 
men'^s  hearts,  and  to  pull  money  out  of  their  purse. 

**  5.  That  saints  are  not  to  be  invocated,  and  that  they  under- 
stand not,  nor  know  nothing  of  our  petitions,  nor  can  be  mediators 
or  intercessors  betwixt  us  and  God. 

"6.  That  dirges,  masses,  &c.  done  for  the  souls  of  those  which 
are  departed  out  of  this  world,  are  but  vain,  and  of  no  profit. 

"7.  That  souls  departed  go  straight  to  heaven,  others  to  hell. 

"  8.  That  there  is  no  mean  place  betwixt  heaven  and  hell,  where 
souls  departed  may  be  afflicted. 

"  9.  That  there  is  no  distinction  of  sin,  to  be  venial  and  mortal. 

"  10.  That  hallowed  water,  bread,  candles,  ashes,  palms,  are  of 
none  efifect,  and  are  only  used  to  seduce  people.'*' 

The  rest  I  refer  to  my  "  Church- History."*** 

Had  that  all  been  like  these,  I  would  have  called  them  *'thc 
gold  f  but  (because  of  many  errors  mixed  amongst  them)  I  resume 
my  metaphor,  and  term  them  "  the  golden  ore,"  out  of  which  the 
Reformed  Christian  religion  was  extracted.  And  let  the  author 
and  reader  join  in  their  thanks  to  God's  goodness,  by  whose  bless- 
ing on  the  pious  endeavours  of  the  Reformers,  the  "  bad  figs  "  (I 
mean  those  false,  indiscreet,  scandalous,  and  dangerous  doctrines) 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  V.        4^5 

are  cashiered  and  condemned,  and  the  "good  ones^  (understated 
me,  the  positions  which  were  pious  and  orthodox)  retained,  defended, 
and  practised  at  this  day  in  the  church  of  England.  Our  author 
proceeds : — 

114.  D9.  Hetlin. — '^  At  this  time  also  were  the  stews  suppressed 
by  the  king^s  command."  (Ch.  Hist.  toL  ii.  p.  111.)     And  I  could 
wish  that  some  command  had  been  laid  upon  our  author  by  the  Par- 
liament to  suppress  them  also,  and  not  to  have  giyen  them  any  place 
in  the  present  "  History,"  especially  not  to  hare  produced  those  argu- 
ments by  which  some  shameless  persons  endeavoured  '*to  maintain 
both  the  conveniency  and  necessity  of  such  common  brothel-houses." 
Had  bishop  Jewel  been  aliye,  and  seen  but  half  so  much  from  Dr. 
Harding,  pleading  in  behalf  of  the  common  women  permitted  by  the 
pope  in  Rome,  he  would  hare  thought,  that  to  call  him,  '^  an  advocate 
for  the  stews,"  had  not  been  enough.*    But  that  Doctor  was  not  half  so 
wise  as  our  author  is,  and  doth  not  fit  each  argument  with  a  several 
antidote  as  our  author  doth ;  hoping  thereby,  but  vainly  hoping,  that 
the   arguments  alleged  will  *'be  washed  away."    Some  of  our  late 
critics  had  a  like  design,  in  marking  all  the  wanton  and  obscene  epi- 
grams in  Martial  with  a  hand  ($S')  or  asterism,  (*)  to  the  intent  that 
young  scholars,  when  they  read  that  author,  might  be  fore-warned  to 
pass  them  over :  whereas,  on  the  contrary,  it  was  found,  that  too 
many  young  fellows,  or  "  wanton  wits,"  as  our  author  calls  them,  did 
ordinarily  skip  over  the  rest,  find  pitch  on  those  which  were  so  marked 
and  set  out  unto  them.     And  much  I  fear,  that  it  will  so  fall  out  with 
our  author  also ;  whose  arguments  will  be  studied  and  made  use  of, 
when  his  answers  will  not. 

Fuller. — The  commendable  act  of  king  Henry  VIII.  in  sup- 
pressing the  stews,  may  well  be  reported  in  "  Church-History,"  it 
being  recorded  in  scripture  to  the  eternal  praise  of  king  Asa,  that 
"  he  took  away  the  Sodomites  out  of  the  land,''  1  Kings  xv.  12.  I 
hope  my  collection  of  arguments  in- confutation  of  such  sties  of  lust, 
will  appear  to  any  rational  reader  of  sufficient  validity. 

Indeed,  it  is  reported  of  Zeuxis,  that  famous  painter,  that  he  so 
lively  pictured  a  boy  with  a  rod  in  his  hand,  carrying  a  basket  of 
grapes,  that  birds  (mistaking  them'  for  real  ones)  pecked  at  them  ; 
and  whilst  others  commended  his  art,  he  was  angry  with  his  own 
workmanship,  confessing,  that  if  he  had  made  the  boy  but  as  well 
as  the  grapes,  the  birds  durst  not  adventure  at  them. 

I  have  the  same  just  cause  to  be  offended  with  my  own  endea- 
vours, if  the  arguments  against  those  schools  of  wantonness  should 
prove  insufficient;  though  I  am  confident,  that,  if  .seriously  consi- 
dered, they  do  in  their  own  true  weight  preponderate  those  proi. 

•  *<  Defence  of  the  Apology.*' 
H  H 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


466  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

duced  in  &Your  of  fhem.  However,  if  iiij  well-intended  pium  be 
abused  by  such  who  only  will  feed  on  the  poisons,  wholly  neglect- 
ing the  antidotes,  their  destruction  is  of  themselres,  and  I  ean  wash 
my  hands  of  any  fault  therein. 

But  methinks  the  Animadvertor  might  well  have  passed  this  over 
in  silence,  for  fear  of  awaking  sleeping  wantonness,  jogged  by  this 
his  note ;  so  that  if  my  arguments,  only  presented  in  my  book,  be 
singly — this  his  animadversion  is  doubly — guilty  on  the  same 
account,  occasioning  loose  eyes  to  reflect  on  that  which  otherwise 
would  not  be  observed.     Our  author  proceeds  :— 

115.  Dr.  Hey  LIN.—"  Otherwise,  (some  suspect,)  had  he  sorvired 
king  Edward  VI.  we  might  presently  have  heard  of  a  king  Henry  the 
ninth."  (Ch.  Hist  vol.  ii.  p.  130.)  Our  author  speaks  this  of  Henry 
Fit9-Roy,  the  king's  natural  son  by  Elizabeth  Blunt,  acnd  the  great 
disturbance  he  might  have  wrought  to. the  king's  two  daughters  in 
their  succession  to  the  crown.  A  prince,  indeed,  whom  his  father 
very  highly  cherished,  creating  him  duke  of  Somerset  and  Richmond, 
earl  of  Nottingham,  and  earl  marshal  of  England,  and  raising  him  to 
no  small  hopes  of  the  crown  itself,  as  appears  plainly  by  the  statute  22 
Henry  VIII.  c.  7»  But  whereas  our  author  speaks  it  on  a  supposition 
of  his  surviving  king  Edward  VI.  he  should  have  done  well  in  the 
Srst  place  to  have  informed  himself,  whether  this  Henry  and  prince 
Edward  were  at  any  time  alive  together.  And  if  my  books  speak 
true,  they  were  not;  Henry  of  Somerset  and  Richmond  dying  the 
22nd  of  July,  anno  1536 ;  prince  Edward  not  being  bom  till  the  12th 
of  October,  anno  1537.  So  that  if  our  author  had  been  but  as  good  at 
law  or  grammar,  as  he  is  at  heraldry,  he  would  not  have  spoken  of  a 
survivorship  in  such  a  case,  when  the  one  person  had  been  long  dead 
before  the  other  was  bom. 

Fuller. — Terms  of  law,  when  used  not  in  law-books,  nor  in 
any  solemn  court,  but  in  common  discourse,  are  weaned  from  their 
critical  sense,  and  admit  more  latitude.  If  the  word  survimng 
should  be  tied  up  to  legal  strictness,  surrivor  is-  applicable  to  none 
save  only  to  such  who  are  joint-tenants.  However,  because  co- 
mvin^  is  properly  required  in  a  surviTor,  those  my  words,  "  had  he 
survived,*'  shall  be  altered  into  "had  he  lived  to  survive  prince 
Edward  ;''  and  then  all  is  beyond  exception. 

116 — 120.  Dr.  HEYLiN.'--^The8e  incoherent  Animadversions  being 
thus  passed  over,  we  now  proceed  to  the  examination  of  our  author  s 
principles,  for  weakening  the  authority  of  the  church,  and  subjecting 
it  in  all  proceedings  to  the  power  of  Parliaments.  Concerning  which 
he  had  before  given  us  two  rules,  preparatory  to  the  great  business 
which  we  have  in  hand.  First.  "  That  the  proceedings  of  the  canon  law 
were  subject,  in  whatsoever  touched  temporals,  to  secular  laws  and 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  V.       467 

national  custonui.  And  the  laity  at  pleasure  limited  canons  in  this 
behalf."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  290.)  And,  Secondly,  « that  the  king,  by 
consent  of  Parliament,  directed  the  proceedingB  of  the  ecclesiastical 
court  in  cases  of  heresy."  (Idefn^  toI.  i.  p.  474.)  And  if  the  ecclesiastical 
power  was  thus  curbed  and  fettered  when  it  was  at  the  highest,  there 
is  no  quei^on  to  be  made  but  that  it  was  much  more  obnoxious  to  the 
secular  courts,  when  it  began  to  sink  in  reputation,  and  decline  in 
strength.  How  tnie  and  justifiable,  or  rather  how  unjustifiable  and 
false,  these  two  principles  are,  we  hare  shown  already ;  *  and  must  now 
look:  into  the  rest,  which  our  author,  in  pursusmce  of  the  main  design, 
hatH  presented  to  us.  But,  First,  we  must  take  notice  of  another 
passage  concerning  the  calling  of  Conrocations  or  synodical  meetings, 
formerly  called  by  the  two  archbishops  in  their  seyeral  provinces,  by 
their  own  sole  and  proper  power,  as  our  author  grants,  (Ch.  Hist.  yol. 
ii.  p.  43,)  to  which  he  adds  :-^ 

^  But  after  the  Statute  of  Premunire  was  made,  (which  did  much 
restrsun  die  papal  power,  and  subject  it  to  the  laws  of  the  land,)  arch- 
bisbops  caBed  no  more  Convocations  by  their  sole  and  absolute  com- 
mand, but  at  the  pleasure  of  the  king."  (Idem^  p.  44.)     In  which  I 
must  confess  myself  to  be  much  unsatisfied,  though  I  find  the  same 
position  in  some  other  authors.     My  reasons  two  :  I.  Because  there  is 
nothing  in  the  Statute  of  Premunire  to  restrain  the  archbishops  from 
calling  these  meetings,  as  before ;  that  Act  extending  only  to  "  such' as 
purchase  or  pursue,  or  cause  to  be  purchased  or  puxsued,  in  the  court 
of  Rome,  or  elsewhere,  any  such  translations,  processes,  sentences  of 
excommunication,  buUs,  instruments,  or  any  other  things  whatsoever, 
which  touch  the  king,  against  him,  his  crown,  and  his  regality,  or  his 
realm ;  or  to  such  as  bring  within  the  realm,  or  them  receive,  or  make 
thereof  notification,  or  any  other  execution  whatsoever  within  the 
same  realm,  or  without,"  &c.t    And,  2.  Because  I  find  in  the  statute 
of  the  subnussion  of  the  clergy,  that  it  was  recognised  and  acknow- 
ledged by  the  clergy  in  their  Convocation,  that  the  Convocation  of 
the  said  clergy  is,  alwaya  hath  been,  ^'and  ought  to  be  assembled 
always  by  the  king's  writ."    And  if  they  had  been  always  called  by 
the  king^s  writ,  then  certainly  before  the  Statute  of  Premunire ;  for 
that  the  whole  clergy  in  their  Convocation  should  publicly  declare  and 
avow  a  notorious  falsehood,  especially  in  a  matter  of  £ekct,  is  not  a 
thing  to  be  imagined.     I  must  confess  myself  to  be  at  a  loss  in  this 
intricate  labyrinth,  unless  perhaps  there  were  some  critical  difference 
in  those  ejder  times  between  a  Synod  and  a  Convocation;  the  first 
being  called  by  the  archbishops  in  their  several  and  respective  pro* 
vinces,  as  the  necessities  of  the  church — ^the  other  only  by  the  king,  as 
his  occasions  and  affairs— did  require    the  same.     But  whether  this 
were  so  or  not,  is  not  much  material,  as  the  case  now  stands;  the 
deigy  not  assembling  since  the  25th  of  king  Henry  VIII.  but  as  they 

*  BoUi  tliese  paj»ages  have  been  the  subjects  of  Heylln's  Animadversioos,  in  the 
preceding  pages,  417,  441.— Edit.  t  Stat.  26  Henry  VIII.  c.  19. 

2  H  2  n  \' 

Digitized  by  V^OOQ IC 


468  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

are  convocated  and  conreiied  by  the  king's  writ  only.  I  only  add, 
that  the  time  and  year  of  this  submission  is  mistaken  by  our  author, 
who  placeth  it  in  1533 ;  whereas  indeed  the  clergy  made  this  acknow- 
ledgment and  submission  in  their  Convocation,  anno  1532  ;  though  it 
passed  not  into  an  Act  or  Statute  till  the  year  next  following.  Well 
then,  suppose  the  clergy  called  by  the  king's  authority,  and  all  their 
Acts  and  Constitutions  ratified  by  the  royal  assent,  are  they  of  force  to 
hind  the  subject  to  submit  and  conform  unto  them  ?  Not,  if  our 
author  may  be  judge ;  for  he  tells  us  plainly, — 

^'  That  even  such  Conrocations  with  the  royal  assent,  subject  not 
any  (for  recusancy  to  obey  their  canons)  to  a  civil  penalty  in  person  or 
property,  until  confirmed  by  Act  of  Parliament."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p. 
45.)  I  marvel  where  our  author  took  up  this  opinion ;  which  he 
neither  finds  in  the  registers  of  Convocation,  nor  records  of  Parliament. 
Himself  hath  told  us,  that  ^'  such  Canons  and  Constitutions  as  were 
concluded-on  in  Synods  or  Convocations,  (before  the  passing  of  the 
Statute  of  Premunire,)  were,  without  any  further  ratification,  obliga- 
tory to  all  subjected  to  their  jurisdiction."  (Idem^  p.  43.)  And  he 
hath  told  us  also  of  such  Convocations  as  had  been  called  between  the 
passing  of  the  Statute  of  Premunire,  and  the  Act  for  submission,  that 
^'  they  made  canons  which  were  binding,  although  none  other  than 
synodical  authority  did  confirm  the  same."  Upon  which  premisses  I 
shall  not  fear  to  raise  this  syllogisn ;  namely. 

That  power  which  the  clergy  had  in  their  Convocations  before  their 
submission  to  the  king,  to  bind  the  subject  by  their  Canons  and  Con- 
stitutions "  without  any  fiirther  ratification  than  Qtheir]  own  synodical 
authority,"  the  same  they  had  when  the  king's  power,  signified  in  his 
royal  assent,  was  added  to  them : 

But  the  clergy  (by  our  author  s  own  confession)  had  power  in  their 
Conrocations  before  their  submission  to  the  king,  to  bind  the  subject 
by  their  Canons  and  Constitutions,  without  any  further  ratification 
than  their  own  synodical  authority  : 

ErgOy  they  had  the  same  power  to  bind  the  subjects,  when  the 
king's  power,  signified  by  the  royal  assent,  was  added  to  them. 

The  Minor  being  granted  by  our  author,  as  before  is  showed,  the 
Major  is  only  to  be  proved.  And  for  the  proof  hereof,  I  am  to  put 
the  reader  in  mind  of  a  Petition  or  Remonstrance  exhibited  to  the 
king  by  the  House  of  Commons,  anno  1532,  in  which  they  showed 
themselves  aggrieved,  that  the  clergy  of  this  realm  should  act  authori- 
tatively and  supremely  in  the  Convocations,  and  they  in  Parliament ' 
do  nothing  but  as  it  was  confirmed  and  ratified  by  royal  assent.  Bj 
which  it  seems  that  there  was  nothing  then  desired  by  the  House  of 
Commons,  but  that  the  Convocation  should  be  brought  down  to  the 
same  level  with  the  Houses  of  Parliament ;  and  that  their  Acts  and 
Constitutions  should  not  bind  the  sul^ect,  as  before,  in  their  goods  and 
possessions,  until  they  were  confirmed  and  ratified  by  the  regal  power. 
The  answer  unto  which  Remonstrance  being  drawn  up  by  Dr.  Gardi- 


Digitized 


5dbyLj00gle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORYy  BOOK  V.       469 

ner,  then  newly-made  bishop  of  "Winchester,  and  allowed  of  by  both 
Houses  of  ConTocation,  was  by  them  presented  to  the  king.  But  the 
king,  not  satisfied  with  this  answer,  resolves  to  bring  them  to  his  bent, 
lest  else  perhaps  they  might  have  acted  something  to  the  hinderance  of 
his  divorce,  which  was  at  that  time  in  agitation ;  and  therefore,  on  the 
10th  of  May,  he  sends  a  paper  to  them  by  Dr.  Fox,  (after  bishop  of 
Hereford,)  in  which  it  was  peremptorily  required,  *'  That  no  Constitu- 
tion or  Ordinance  shall  be  hereafter  by  the  clergy  enacted,  promul* 
ged,  or  put  in  execution,  unless  the  king's  highness  do  approve  the 
same  by  his  high  authority  and  royal  assent;  and  his  advice  and 
favour  be  also  interponed  for  the  execution  of  ereiy  such  Constitution 
among  his  liighness*s  subjects."  And  though  the  clergy,  on  the  receipt 
of  this  paper,  removed  first  to  the  chapel  of  St.  Catherine's,  and  after 
unto  that  of  St.  Dunstan  s,  to  consult  about  it ;  yet  found  they  po 
saint  able  to  inspire  them  with  a  resolution  contrary  to  the  king's 
desires ;  and  therefore  upon  the  Wednesday  following,  being  the  15th 
of  the  same  month,  they  made  their  absolute  submission,  binding 
themselves,  in  verbo  sacerdotiiy  not  to  make  or  execute  any  oanons  or 
other  synodical  Constitutions,  but  as  they  were  from  time  to  time 
enabled  by  the  king's  authority.  But  this  submission,  being  made 
unto  the  king  in  his  single  person,  and  not  as  in  conjunction  with  his 
Houses  of  ParUament,  could  neither  bring  the  Convocation  imder  the 
command  of  Parliaments,  nor  render  them  obnoxious  to  the  power 
thereof,  as  indeed  it  did  not.  But  to  the  contrary  hereof  it  is  said  by 
our  author,  that — . 

"  He,  (namely,  the  king,)  by  the  advice  and  consent  of  his  clergy  in 
Convocation,  and  great  Council  in  Parliament,  resolved  to  reform  the 
church  under  his  inspection  from  gross  abuses  crept  into  it."  (Ch. 
Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  50.)  To  this  I  need  no  other  answer  than  our  authot 
himself,  who,  though  in  this  place  he  makes  the  Parliament  to  be 
joined  in  commission  with  the  Convocation,  as  if  a  joint  agent  in  that 
great  business  of  reforming  the  church ;  yet  in  another  place  he  tells 
us  another  tale.  For, ''  it  will  appear,"  saith  he,  (and  I  can  tell  from 
whom  he  saith  it,)  ^'  upon  serious  examination,  that  there  was  nothing 
done  in  the  Reformation  of  religion,  save  what  was  acted  by  the  clergy 
in  their  Convocations,  or  grounded  on  some  Act  of  theirs  precedent  to 
it,  with  the  advice,  counsel,  and  consent  of  the  bishops  and  most 
eminent  churchmen ;  confirmed  upon  the  post-fact,  and  not  otherwise, 
by  the  civil  sanction,  according  to  the  usage  of  the  best  and  happiest 
times  of  Christianity."  f'/c/em,  p.  42.)  So  then  the  Reformation  of 
the  church  was  acted  chiefly  by  the  king  with  the  advice  of  the  clergy 
in  their  Convocation ;  the  confirmation  on  the  post-fact  by  the  king  in 
Parliament ;  and  that,  (by  his  leave,)  not  in  all  the  acts  and  particu- 
lars of  it,  but  in  some  few  only ;  for  which,  consult  the  tract  entituled, 
"  The  Way .  and  Manner  of  the  Reformation  of  the  Church  of 
England."  Now  as  our  author  makes  the  Parliament  a  joint 
assistant  with  the  king  in  the   Reformation,   so  he  conferreth  on 


Digitized  by 


Google 


470  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II 

Parliaments   the  aapreme  power  of  ratifying    and    confirming  all 
Bjnodical  Acta. 

^  The  Pariiament,"  saith  he,  ^<  did  notify  and  declare  that  eocle* 
tiaatical  power  to  he  in  the  king,  which  the  pope  had  formerly 
unjustly  iuTaded ;  yet  so,  that  they  reserred  to  themselyea  the  eoa- 
firming  power  of  all  Canons  ecclesiastical ;  so  that  the  person  or  pro- 
perty of  refusers  should  not  he  suhjected  to  temporal  penalty  without 
consent  of  Parliament."  (Gh.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  57.)  But  certainly  there 
is  no  such  matter  in  that  Act  of  Parliament,  in  whidi  the  suhmisaion 
of  the  clergy,  and  the  authority  of  the  king  grounded  thereupon,  is 
notified  and  recorded  to  succeeding  times ;  nor  any  such  reserration  to 
themselves  of  a  confirming  power,  as  our  auth<Hr  speaks  <^,  in  any  Act 
of  Parliament  (I  can  knowingly  and  boldly  say  it)  firom  that  time  to 
tl^.  Had  there  been  any  sudl  priyil^e,  any  such  reseryadon  as  is 
here  declared,  their  power  in  confixmii^g  ecdesiastical  Canons  had 
been  lord  paramount  to  the  king's ;  who  could  have  acted  nothing  in 
it,  but  as  he  was  enabled  by  his  Houses  of  Parliament.  Nor  is  this 
only  a  new  and  unheard-of  paradox,  an  heterodoxy  (as  I  may  call  it) 
in  point  of  law,  but  plainlj^  contrary  to  the  practice  of  the  kings  <d 
England  from  that  time  to  this ;  there  being  nO  synodical  Canons  or 
Constitutions  (I  dare  as  boldly  say  this  too)  confirmed  in  ParUament,  or 
any  otherwise  ratified  than  by  the  superadding  of  the  royal  ass^t  For 
proof  whereof,  look  we  no  further  than  the  Canons  of  1603  and  1640 
confirmed  by  the  two  kings  respectively,  and  without  any  other  autho- 
rity concurring  with  them  in  these  following  words:  namely,  "We 
have  therefore  for  us,  our  heirs,  and  lawful  successors,  of  our  especial 
grace,  certain  knowledge,  and  mere  motion,  given,  and  by  these  pre* 
sents  do  give,  our  royal  assent  according  to  the  form  of  the  said  Statute 
or  Act  of  Parliament  aforesaid,  to  all  and  every  of  the  said  Canons, 
Orders,  Ordinances,  and  Constitutions,  and  to  all  and  every  thing  in 
them  Contained.  And  furthermore,  we  do  not  only  by  our  said  preroga- 
tive royal,  and  supreme  authority,  in  causes  ecclesiastical,  ratify,  confirm, 
and  establish,  by  these  our  letters  patents,  the  said  Canons,  Orders, 
Ordinances^  and  Constitutions,  and  all  and  every  thing  in  them  con- 
tained, as  is  aforesaid ;  but  do  likewise  propound,  publish,  and  straitly 
enjoin  and  command  by  our  said  authority,  and  by  these  our  letters 
pat^its,  the  same  to  be  diligently  observed,  executed,  and  equaHy  kept 
by  all  our  loving  subjects  of  this  our  kingdom,  both  within  the  pro- 
vince of  Canterbury  and  York,  in  cJl  points  wherein  they  do  or  may 
concei^n  every  or  any  of  them  according  to  this  our  will  and  {Measure 
hereby  signified  and  expressed."  No  other  power  required  to  confirm 
these  Canons,  or  to  impose  them  on  the  pe<^ie,  but  the  king's  alone. 
And  yet,  I  trow,  there  are  not  a  few  particulars,  in  which  those 
Canons  do  extend  to  the  property  and  persons  of  such  refusers  as  are 
concerned  in  the  same;  which  our  author  may  soon  find  in  them, 
if  he  list  to  look.  And  having  so  done,  let  him  give  us  the  like  prece- 
dent for  bis  Houses  of  Parliament  (sither  abstractedly  in  themselves, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHUKCH-BI8TORY,  BOOK  V..       471 

or  in  oo*operatk>n  with  the  king)  in  oonfinning  Canons ;  and  we  diall 
gladly  quit  the  cause,  and  wUlinglj  submit  to  his  *  ter  judgment. 

But  if  it  be  objected,  as  periiaps  it  may,  "  That  the  subsidies  granted 
by  the  dergy  in  the  Conyocation,  are  ratified  and  oonfinned  by  Act  of 
Pcffliament,  before  they  can  be  leyied  either  on  the  grantors  themselres, 
or  the  rest  of  the  clergy; " — 

I  answer.  That  this  makes  nothing  to  our  author^s  purpose^  that  is 
to  say,  that  "  the  person  or  property  of  refusers  should  not  be  sub- 
jected to  temporal  penalty,  without  consent  of  Parliament."  For, 
First,  before  the  submission  of  the  Clergy  to  king  Henry  VIIL  they 
granted  subsidies  and  other  aids  unto  the  king  in  their  Convocations, 
and  levied  them  upon  the  persons  concerned  therein,  by  no  other  way 
than  the  usual  censures  of  the  church,  especially  by  suspension  and 
deprivation,  if  any  refuser  proved  so  refractory  as  to  dispute  the  pay- 
ment of  the  sum  imposed.  And  by  this  way  they  gave  and  levied  that 
great  sum  of  an  hundred  thousand  pounds  in  the  province  of  Canter- 
bury only ;  by  which  they  bought  their  peace  of  the  said  king  Henry, 
at  such  time  as  he  had  caused  them  to  be  attainted  in  the  Premunire. 
And,  Secondly,  there  is  a  like  precedent  for  it,  since  the  said  submis- 
sion. For  whereas  the  clergy  in  their  Convocation  in  the  year  1585, 
being  the  27th  year  of  queen  Elizabeth,  had  given  that  queen  a  sub- 
sidy of  four  shillings  in  the  pound^  confirmed  by  Act  of  Parliament  in 
the  usual  way ;  they  gave  her  at  the  same  time  (finding  their  former  gift 
too  short  for  her  present  occasions)  a  benevolence  of  two  shillings  in 
the  pound  to  be  raised  upon  all  the  clergy,  by  virtue  of  their  own  sjmodi- 
cal  Act  only,  under  the  penalty  of  such  ecclesiastical  censures  as  before 
were  mentioned.  Which  precedent  was  after  followed  by  the  clergy 
in  their  Convocation,  anno  1640,  the  instrument  of  the  grant  being 
the  same  verbaiim  with  that  before ;  though  so  it  happened,  (such 
influence  have  the  times  on  the  actions  of  men,)  that  they  were  quar- 
reled and  Gondenmed  for  it  by  the  following  Parliament  in  the  time  of 
the  king,  and  not  so  much  as  checked  at,  or  thought  to  have  gone 
beyond  their  bounds,  in  the  time  of  the  queen.  And  for  the  ratifying 
of  their  Bill  by  Act  of  Parliament,  it  came  up  first  at  such  times  (aftex 
the  submission  before -mentioned)  as  the  kings  of  England,  being  in 
distrust  of  their  clergy,  did  not  think  fit  to  empower  them  by  dieiv 
letters  patents  for  the  making  of  any  synodical  Acts,  Canons,  or  Con- 
stitutions whatsoever,  by  which  their  subsidies  have  been  levied  ii| 
former  times,  but  put  them  off  to  be  confirmed  and  made  obligatory  by 
Act  of  PEurliament.  Which,  being  afterwards  found  to  be  the  more 
expedite  way,  and  not  considered  as  derogatory  to  the  church's  rights, 
was  followed  in  succeeding  times  without  doubt  or  scruple ;  the  church 
proceeding  in  aU  other  cases  by  her  native  power,  even  in  eases  where 
both  the  person  and  property  of  the  subject  were  alike  concerned,  as 
by  the  Caaions  [pQ  1603, 1640,  and  many  of  those  passed  in  queen 

•  I  believe  this  should  be  better,  as  may  appear  in  the  errata,  (Page  350.)     But 
because  the  page  is  mistaken,  121  for  101,  1  dare  not  alter  itt 


Digitized  by 


Google 


472  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

Elizabeth's  time,  (though  not  so  easy  to  be  seen,)  doth  at  full  appear. 
Which  said,  we  may  haye  leisure  to  consider  of  another  passage 
relating  not  unto  the  power  of  the  church,  but  the  wealth  of  the 
churchmen ;  of  which  thus  our  author : — 

Fuller. — I  conceived  it  civil  to  suffer  the  Animadvertor  (to 
use  his  own  phrase)  parler  le  tatUy  "  to  speak  all  out ''  in  this  long 
discourse;  which,  although  it  consisteth  of  several  notes,  jet 
because  all  treat  of  the  same  subject,  and  because  a  relative  strength 
might  result  thereby  to  the  whole,  I  have  presented  it  entire.  Yet, 
when  all  is  said,  I  find  very  little  I  have  learned  thereby,  and  less 
(if  any  thing)  which  I  am  to  alter. 

These  my  two  preparatory  rules  (as  the  Animadvertor  terms 
them)  I  have  formerly  stated,  and  poved,  and  here  intend  no 
repetition. 

It  is  no  beam-  and  but  a  moat- fault  at  most,  if  I  have  dated  the 
submission  of  the  cleigy  to  the  king,  not  from  the  first  private  per- 
formance,  but  the  passing  thereof  into  print  and  public  cognizance. 
Thus  the  age  of  children  are  by  their  parents  reckoned  from  their 
birth,  but  by  others  from  their  entrance  in  the  register. 

But  the  main  fault  (and  that  a  foul  one,  if  true)  laid  to  my 
charge  is,  for  "  weakening  the  authority  of  the  church,  and  subjecting 
it  to  the  power  of  Parliaments.''  But  know,  it  is  past  the  might 
and  spite  of  the  most  malicious  man  finally  to  weaken  the  just 
authority  of  the  church,  God  having  solemnly  promised  "  that  the 
gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against  it."  Yet  princes  (as  king 
Henry  VIII.  did)  might  retrench  the  power  of  the  church,  (or 
ambitious  churchnien  rather,)  when  they  invaded  the  just  privileges 
of  others. 

I  shall  only  return  a  few  plain  and  general  answers  to  what  is 
objected.  First.  Before  I  entered  on  the  difficult  subject  of 
Synods  and  Convocations,  (before  and  since  the  clergy's  submis- 
sion,) with  their  respective  powers,  I  placed,  as  followeth  : — 

'♦This  I  humbly  conceive  to  be  the  difference  betwixt  the  three 
kinds  of  Convocations,  submitting  what  I  have  written  to  the  cen- 
sure and  correction  of  the  learned  in  the  law,  conscious  of  my  own 
ignorance  therein  ;  as,  indeed,  such  skill  neither  is  to  be  expected 
nor  required  in  one  of  my  profession,  who  am  ready,  with  willingness, 
yea,  with  cheerfulness,  yea,  with  thankfiilness  to  God  and  man, 
publicly  to  recall  and  retract  what  any  such  convince  me  to  have 
mistaken  herein ;  hoping  that  my  stumbling  in  so  dark  a  subject, 
may  prevent  the  foiling  of  others."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  45.) 

Having  thus  humbly  desired  (I  say  not,  deserved)  favour,  I  hop® 
it  will  be  indulged  unto  me. 

Secondly.  I  presume  to  tender  this  (I  hope,  reasonable)  motion  to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


-  ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  V.       473 

the  reader,  that,  seeing  the  Animadvertor  not  only  freely  confesseth 
this  subject  to  be  "an  intricate  labjnrinth,''  but  also  fairly  acknow- 
ledgeth,  that  "  he  findeth  the  positions  I  maintain  in  some  other 
authors^  that  I  may  be  discharged,  and  that  the  guilt  (if  any)  may 
be  derived  on  such^authors  as  have  misguided  me. 

Thirdly.  When  I  use   the  word  **  Parliament,''  it  expoundeth 
itself  what  was  meant  thereby,  (capable  in  that  age  of  no  other . 
comment,)    namely,   the    aggregation    of   the    king,   lords,   and 
commons. 

Fourthly.  I  distinguish  betwixt  a  consultative,  conclusive,  and 
punitive  power  in  matters  of  religion.  1.  The  consultative  power 
God  hath  intrusted  his  church  with,  and  the  clergy  as  the  represent- 
ative thereof.  2.  The  condusive  power  also  is  invested  in  them,  so 
far  forth  as  to  declare  what  is  orthodox,  and  what  heretical.  3.  But 
the  punitive  poii^er,  especially  when  exceeding  church-censures,  and 
extending  to  life,  limb,  and  estate,  is  in  the  Parliament ;  that  so 
neither  royal  prerogative  nor  subjects'  right  may  be  injured. 

Fifthly.  I  distinguish  betwixt  the  power  which  the  Convocation 
had  over  the  clergy,  and  what  they  have  over  the  laity.  Over  the 
estates  of  the  latter,  they  have  no  power. 

As  for  the  clergy,  they  are  all  represented,  by  their  voluntary 
elections,  in  their  clerks  or  proctors.  Volenti  non  fit  injuria^  **  A 
man  that  is  willing  is  not  wronged."  What  sums,  therefore,  they 
give  away  of  the  clergy,  they  may  be  presumed  empowered  therein 
with  the  consent  of  the  clergy.  However,  to  clear  all  doubts,  the 
consent  of  Parliament  hath  (since  the  submission  of  the  clergy) 
been  required  unto  it. 

As  for  the  black  swan  in  the  reign  of  queen  Elizabeth,  I  mean 
that  single  and  signal  instance  of  that  unparliament-empowered  Con- 
vocation, which  gave  that  supplemental  subsidy  to  queen  Elizabeth  ; 
I  humbly  conceive  that  the  popularity  of  so  peerless  a  princess,  the 
necessity  of  her  occasions,  and  the  tranquillity  of  those  times,  (a 
happiness  denied  in  our  age,)  made  that  unquestioned,  which  might 
be  questionable  if  any  turbulent  clergyman  had  proved  recusant  in 
payment. 

As  to  the  Convocation,  1640,  let  me  request  the  reader,  that  I 
may  without  danger  humbly  tender  my  opinion  herein.  That  Con- 
vocation (as  all  others)  consisted  of  bishops,  deans,  archdeacons, 
and  clerks.  Of  these,  the  three  former  acted  only  in  their  per- 
sonal capacities;  and,  carrying  their  own  purses  in  their  own 
pockets,  might  give  subsidies  to  the  king  to  what  proportion  they 
pleased,  and  justify  the  doing  thereof. 

Not  so  the  fourth  and  last  members,  being  clerks  chosen  for  their 
respective  cathedrals  and  diocesses,  legally  to  sit  as  long  as  the  Par- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


474  APPEAL  OF  INJUBSD  INNOCSNCfi.  FART  II. 

liameot  lasted.  Aft^  tbe  disfoloiion  irfaeteof,  they  desisled  to  be 
publics  penons,  lost'tke  notion  of  repzesentaiivcs^  and  retimied  to 
their  private  condition.  In  wbich  capacity  they  might  have  given 
tof  themselTCs  yrhat  suniB  they  pleased,  bat  could  not  Tote  aw&y  the 
estates  of  other  cleigymen,  except  the  respective  cathedrals  and 
diocesaes  had  re-elected  them  ;  which  had  it  been  done,  they  might 
,BO  doubt  have  justified  the  giving  away  of  subsidies,  as  authorized 
thereunto,  thou^  the  Pariiament  had  been  dissolved,  seeing  ^  every 
man  may  do  with  his  own  as  he  pleaseth  f  ^  and  the  diffusive  cleigj 
Were  justly  interpreted  to  do  what  was  done  l^  their  proetois. 
Truth  may  be  blamed,  but  cannot  be  shamed ;  and  I  have  nnbo- 
somed  my  thoughts  and  judgment  herein.  But  this  outswelkth 
the  proportion  ^  my  book,  and  let  me  make  a  fair  motion  to  the 
Animadvertor.     I  resume  my  two  f<mner  propositions  ;  namely,— 

*'*'  1.  The  proceedings  of  the  canon  law,  in  what  toudied  tempo- 
rals of  life,  limb,  and  estate,  was  always  limited  with  the  secular 
laws  and  national  customs  of  England. 

"  2-  That  the  king,  by  consent  of  Parliament,  directed  the  pro- 
ceedings of  ecclesiastical  courts,  against  declared  heretics,  so  that 
they  could  not  punish  them  in  life  or  limb,  but  as  limited  by  the 
statute,''' 

If  the  Animmdvertor,  who  hath  leisure  and  ability,  be  pleased,  in 
confiitation  of  these  my  propositions,  to  write  a  few  sheets,  (it  being 
richly  worth  his  and  the  reader's  pains,)  clearly,  Iwiefly,  fully,  ami 
fairly,  witkotii  the  leaM  dash  of  ill  lanfftioffey  subscribiug  his  name 
thereunto ;  I  will,  God  willing,  return  him  my  answer  qualified 
accordingly ;  and,  though  I  confess  the  Animadvertor  hath  the  advan- 
tage of  me  at  the  weapon  of  law,  yet  my  confidence  of  a  good 
cause  will  make  me  ucidertake  the  chsdlenge ;  always  provided,  that 
no  advantage  be  taken  against  us  by  any  for  delivering  our  judg- 
ments and  consciences  in  so  nice  a  controversy.  For  the  present  I 
forbear,  because  this  dispute  is  substantive  enough  to.stand  by  itself, 
and  too  large  to  be  adjected  to  this  book.     Our  author  proceeds  :— 

121—124.  Dr.  Heylin. — "I  have  heard,"  saith  he,  "that  queen 
Elizabeth,  being  informed  that  Dr.  Pilkington,  bishop  of  Durham, 
had  given  ten  thousand  pounds  in  marriage  with  his  daughter ;  and 
being  offended  that  a  prelate's  daughter  should  equal  a  princess  in  por- 
tion, took  away  one  thousand  pounds  a -year  from  that  bishopric,  and 
assigned  it  for  the  better  maintenance  of  the  garrison  of  Berwick " 
(Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  J29.)  In  telling  of  which  story  our  author  com- 
mits many  mistakes,  as  in  most  things  else.  For,  First,  to  justify  the 
queens  displeasure,  (if  she  were  displeased^)  he  makes  the  bishop 
richer,  and  the  portion  greater,  than  indeed  they  were.  The  ten  thou- 
sand pounds  being  shrunk  to  eight ;  and  that  eight  thousand  pounds 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVEBSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  V.      475 

not  giren  to  one  daughter,  (as  is  here  affirmed,)  hut  divided  equaMy 

between  two ;  whereof  the  one  was  married  to  Sir  James  Harrington^ 

the  other  mito  Daneh  of  Berkshire,  (^/dem,  p.  513.)    Seoondlj.  This 

could  be  no  cause  of  the  queen's  displeasure,  and  much  less  of  the 

courtiers'  enrj ;  that  bishop  hayiug  sat  in  the  see  of  Durham  abore 

sevente^i  years.    And,  certainly,  he  must  needs  have  been  a  rery  iU 

husband  if,  out  of  such  a  great  revenue,  he  had  not  saved  five  hundred 

pounds  per  annum  to  prefer  his  children ;  the  income  being  as  great,' 

and  the  charges  of  hospitality  less  than  they  have  been  since.  Thirdly. 

The  queen  did  not  take  away  a  thousand  pounds  a-year  from  that 

bishopric,  as  is  here  affirmed.     The  lands  were  left  to  it  as  before ; 

but,  in  regard  the  garrison  of  Berwick  preserved  the  bishop's  lands  and 

tenants  from  the  spoil  of  the  Scots ;  the  queen  thought  fit,  that  the 

bishops  shotild  contribute  towards  their  own  defence,  imposing  on  them 

an  annual  pension  of  a  thousand  pounds  for  the  better  maintaining  of 

that  garrison.    Fourthly.  Bishop  Pilkington  was  no  Doctor,  but  a 

Bachelor  of  Divinity  only ;  and  possibly  had  not  been  raised  by  our 

author  to  an  higher  title  and  degree  than  the  TTnirersity  had  ^ven 

him,  but  that  he  was  ^*a  conniver  at  nonconfi>rmity,''  as  our  author 

telleth  us.    (Idem^  p.  513.)    Lastly.  I  shall  here  add,  l^at  I  conceive 

the  pension,  above*mentioned,  not  to  have  been  laid  upon  that  see 

after  PiDcington's  death,  but  on  his  first  preferment  to  it ;  the  French 

having  then  newly-landed  some  forces  in  Scotland,  which  put  the 

queen  upon  a  necessity  of  doubling  her  guards  and  increasing  her 

garrisons.   But,  whatsoever  was  tfie  cause  of  imposing  this  great  yearly 

"payment  upon    that  bishopric,   certain  I  am  that  it  continued,  and 

the  money  was  duly  paid  into  the  Exchequer  for  many  years,  after  the 

troe  cause- thereof  was  taken  atvay;  the  queen's  displeasure  against 

Pilkington  ending  either  with  his  life  or  hers,  and  all  the  garrisons  and 

forces  upon  the  Borders  being  taken  away  in  the  beginning  of  the 

reign  of  king  James.     So  true  is  that  old  saying.  Quod  Christus  non 

capit^  ^scus  rapit ;  never  more  fully  verified  than  in  this  particular. 

FuLLEE.— I  have  given-in  a  double  account  of  bishop  Pil- 
kington's  issue  and  estate. 

1.  As  fame  reported,  and  as  envious  courtiers  represented  it  to 
queen  Elizabeth,  that  he  gave  ten  thousand  with  his  only  daughter. 
(Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  129.) 

2.  As  it  was  in  truth,  giving  but  four  thousand  a-piece  with  two 
daughters.  (Idem,  p.  513.) 

The  Animadvertor  may  allow  me  knowing  in  his  femily,  my 
wife  being  grandchild  to  his  eldest  daughter,  married  to  sir  Henry 
Harrington.* 

Yet  no  relation  to  him,  or  favour  for  him  a^  a  serai^nanconform- 
ist,  but  mere  love  to  the  truth,  made  me  entitle  him  "  Doctor ;"' 
though  I  confess  bishop  Godwin  maketh  him  but  Bachelor  in  Divi- 

*  So  is  hii  name  in  mj  corrected  books. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


476  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

nity.  For  Dr.  Caius,  Master  of  Gonvflle  Hall,  whilst  Pilkington 
was  of  St.  John's  in  Cambridge,  giveth  him  the  style  of  Doctor,* 
who  must  be  presumed  most  exact  in  the  titles  of  his  own  contem- 
porary. 

The  difference  is  not  great,  betwixt  taking  away  <^1000  yearly 
from  the  bishopric,  and  charging  it  with  an  annual  pension  of  <^1000 
to  maintain  the  garrison  of  Berwick.  However,  if  the  reader  can 
gain  any  information  from  what  is  additory  in  the  Animadvertor,  I 
shall  be  right  glad  thereof. 


BOOK  VI. 

CONTAINING    THE    HISTORY    OF    ABBEYS. 

125.  Dr.  Hbylin. — This  book,  containing  the  History  of  Abbeys, 
seems  but  a  supplement  to  the  former ;  but  being  made  a  distinct  book 
by  our  author,  we  must  do  so  likewise.  In  which  the  first  thing  capa- 
ble of  an  animadversion,  is  but  merely  verbal ;  namely, 

"  Cistercians,  so  called  from  one  Robert,  living  in  C^stercium  in  Bur- 
gundy." (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  146.)  The  place  in  Burgundy  from 
whence  these  monks  took  denomination,  though  called  Cistercium  by 
the  Latins,  is  better  known  to  the  French  and  English  by  the  name 
Cisteaux ;  the  monks  thereof,  "  the  monks  of  Cisteaux  "  by  the  Eng- 
lish, and  les  moines  de  Cisteaux  by  the  French ;  and  yet  our  author 
hath  hit  it  better  in  his  Cistercians,  than  Ralph  Brooke,  York  herald, 
did  in  his  sister-senses  ;  for  which  sufficiently  derided  by  Augustine 
Vincent,  as  our  author,  being  so  well  studied  in  heraldry,  cannot 
choose  but  know. 

Fuller. — It  was  equally  in  my  power  and  pleasure,  (without 
the  least  prejudice  to  the  truth,)  whether  I  would  render  the  place 
in  the  French,  (Cisteaux,)  or  retain  the  Latin  name  Cutercium.  I 
preferred  the  latter,  because  our  English  word  Cistercians  hath  most 
conformity  therewith. 

What  is  Ralph  Brooke's  sister-senses,  brother-senses,  or  non- 
senses to  me  ?  This  spends  time  in  writing,  money  in  buying, 
pains  in  reading,  makes  some  more  angry,  none  more  knowing. 
Our  author  proceeds  : — 

126.  Dr.  Heylin. — "But  be  he  who  he  himself  or  any  other 
pleaseth, — ^brother,  if  they  will,  to  St.  George  on  horseback."  (Ch.  Hist, 
vol.  ii.  p.  148.)  Our  author,  not  satisfying  himself  in  that  Equitius, 
who  is  supposed  to  be  the  first  fpunder  of  monks  in  England,  makes 
Him  in  scorn  to  be  the  "  brother  of  St.  George  on  horseback;"  that  is 

*  In  his  list  of  the  Masters  of  St.  John's. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  VI.     477 

to  say,  a  mere  chimera,  a  legendary  saint,  a  thing  of  nothing.  The 
knights  of  that  most  nohle  Order  are  beholding  to  him  for  putting 
their  patron  in  the  same  rank  with  St.  Equitios ;  of  whose  existence 
on  the  earth  he  can  find  no  constat. 

FuLL£B. — I  honour  the  knights  of  that  noble  Order,  as  much  as 
the  Animadvertor  himself.  Their  ribands  (though  now  wearing 
out  apace)  seem  in  my  eyes  as  fair  and  fresh  as  when  first  put  on. 
I  do  not  deny,  but  much  doubt  of  St.  George,  as  he  is  presented 
with  his  improbable  achievements ;  yet  grant  the  whole  history  only 
emblematical,  and  allegorical  of  Christ,  rescuing  his  church  from  the 
might  and  malice  of  Satan ;  no  diminution  of  honour  at  all  is 
thereby  to  the  Fellows  of  that  noble  Order. 

Dr.  Hetlin.— But  I  would  hare  him  know,  how  poorly  soever  he 
tlunks  of  *^  St.  George  on  horseback,"  that  there  hath  more  been  said 
of  him,  his  nohle  birth,  achievements,  with  his  death  and  martyrdom, 
than  all  the  friends  our  author  hath  will  or  can  justly  say  in  defence 
of  our  present  "  History." 

Fuller.— The  Animadvertor  might  have  done  well  to  instance 
in  that  author  which  hath  been  the  champion  for  this  champion,  and 
bath  so  substantially  asserted  him.  If  in  this  passage  he  refiecteth 
on  his  own  book  on  that  subject,  he  hath  looked  so  long  on  St. 
George,  he  hath  forgot  Solomon  :  "  Let  another  praise  thee,  and  not 
thy  own  mouth ;  a  stranger,  and  not  thine  own  lips.''  For  my  part, 
I  am  yet  to  seek  what  service  he  hath  done  to  the  church  of  God,  so 
busy  to  make  "  down  sabbath,  and  up  St.  George.*"  Our  author 
proceeds : — 

127.  Dr.  Hbylin. — "So  they  deserve  some  commendation  for  their 
orthodox  judgment  in  maintaining  some  controversies  in  divinity  of 
importance  against  the  Jesuits."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  152.)  Our 
author  speaks  this  of  the  Dominicans  or  Preaching  Friars,  who, 
though  they  be  the  sole  active  managers  of  the  Inquisition,  deserve, 
notwithstanding,  to  be  commended  for  "their  orthodox  judgment." 
How  so  ?  Because,  forsooth,  in  "  some  controversies  of  importance," 
—that  is  to  say,  predestination,  grace,  free-will,  and  the  rest  of  that 
link, — ^they  hold  the  same  opinions  against  the  Jesuits  and  Franciscans, 
as  the  rigid  Lutherans  do  against  the  Melanchthonians,  and  the  rigid  or 
peremptory  Oalvinists  against  the  Remonstrants.  As  powerful  as  the 
Jesuits  and  Franciscans  are  in  the  court  of  Rome,  they  could  never 
get  the  pope  to  declare  so  much  in  favour  of  their  opinion,  as  here  our 
author  (out  of  pure  zeal  to  the  good  cause)  declares  in  favour  of  the 
Dominicans.  It  was  wont  to  be  the  property  or  commendation  of 
charity,  that  it  "  hoped  all  things,  believed  all  things,  thought  no  evil," 
and,  in  a  word,  "  covered  a  multitude  of  sins."  But  zeal  to  the  good 
cause,  having  eaten  up  charity,  so  fax  ascribes  unto  itself  the  true 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


478  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCEXCHS.  PART  II. 

qualities  of  it|  m  to  paaa  oyer  tbe  sins  amd  yiees  of  such  who  bare 
engaged  themselres  in  defence  thereof.  And  he  that  feyonra  the  good 
cause,  though  otherwise  heterodox  in  3octrine,  irregular  in  his  conyer- 
.sation,  as  hloodj  a  hutcher  of  the  true  protestants  as  these  P^eaehiog 
Friars,  shall  have  his  impeifeetions  coyered,  his  yiees  hidden  under 
this  disguise,-— that  he  is  '^  orthodox  in  judgment,"  and  a  true  professor* 
Otherwise  the  Dominicans  had  not  found  such  fayour  from  the  bands 
of  our  author,  who  would  haye  drawn  as  much  blood  into  their  cheeks 
with  his  pen,  as  they  haye  drawn  from  many  a  true  protestant  by  their 
persecutions. 

FuLLEA. — ^Tifo  things  are  considerable  in  the  Dominicans. 

First.  Their  cruelty  in  managing  the  Inquisition,  which  all  must 
justly  condemn.  And  I  doubt  not,  but  God,  when  he  maketh 
inquisition  for  blood,  will  remember  the  bloody  Inquisition. 

Secondly.  Their  orthodozness  in  many  points,  here  reckoned  up 
by  the  Animadyertor,  which,  in  the  judgment  of  many  pious  and 
learned  divines,  deserve  just  commendation.  And  if  the  Animad- 
yertor dissent  from  them  herein,  sure  I  am,  he.  will  dose  with  them 
in  another  controversy  against  the  Franciscans,  in  maintaining  that 
the  virgin  Mary  was  conceived  in  sin.  For  although  all  g^erationa 
shall  call  her  blessed ;  yet  it  followeth  not  thence,  that  she  was 
without  sin,  seeing  '^  blessed  is  he  to  vhom  Ood  imputeth  no  sin."" 
In  a  word,  the  Dominicans  are  the  least  eironeous  of  aU  the  monks 
and  friars.     Our  author  proceeds  :-* 

128.  Db.  HBYiiiN.— t"  We  will  conclude  with  their  observation,  (as 
an  ominous  presage  of  abbeys*  ruin,)  that  there  was  scarce  a  great 
abbey  in  England,  which,  once  at  least,  was  not  burnt  down  with 
lightning  from  heaven."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  194.)  Our  author  may 
he  as  well  out  in  this,  as  he  hath  been  in  many  things  else ;  it  being 
an  Ordinary  thing  to  ascribe  that  to  lightning,  or  fire  from  heaven, 
which  happened  by  the  malice  or  carelessness  of  knaves  on  earth :  of 
which  I  shall  speaik  more  hereafter,  on  occasion  of  the  firing  of  St. 
Paul's  steeple  in  London.  (Idem,^  vol.  ii.  p.  467-) 

FuLLEB.-^If  your  author  "be  out,^  he  told  you  who  were  out 
with  your  author ;  yea,  who  led  him  out ;  namely,  the  following 
authors,  being  all  of  them  authentical,  and  of  the  Romish  persua- 
sion, cited  in  the  maigent: — ^1.  ffistaria  Oervasii.  2.  Eistoria 
Ingulphi.  3.  Chronicon  Petroburg.  4.  Chrmicon  Sancti  JEdmundu 
6.  Malmesbury.  6.  Hovedon.     7.  Walter  Coventry.    8.  Fabian. 

These  may  be  presumed  utterly  unlikely  to  be-libel  heaven  for 
the  actions  of  earth,  or  to  entitle  that  "an  accident  of  lightning," 
which  was  voluntary  from  knavish  incendiaries. 

Dr.  Heylin. — Now  only  noting  by  the  way,  that  "  scarce  any,"  and 
"  but  thirteen,"  (for  our  author  names  no  more  which  were  so  con- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH- HISTORY,  BOOK  VI.     479 

sumed,)  bapg  not  well  togeUier.  If  only  '*  thirteen"  were  so  bomt, 
(and  sure  our  author  would  have  named  them,  if  thejhad  been  mcMre,) 
he  should  hare  rather  changed  his  style,  and  said  that  ^*  of  so  many 
Beligioos  Houses  as  suffered  l^  the  decayn  of  time  9nd  tite  fury  of  the 
Dani^  wars,  or  the  rage  of  aceidental  fires,  scarce  any  of  them  had 
been  stricken  by  the  hand  of  hearen." 

Fuller .r^He  might  as  well  haTe  said,  that  ^Hhe  husbandman, 
who  only  showeth  a  sample,  hath  np  more  com  in  his  bam ;  ^  or 
'^  the  draper  who  presenteth  but  a  pattern,  hath  no  more  cloth  in 
his  shop.*' 

I  was  tm  willing  to  burden  my  boot  with  the  enumeration  of  them 
all ;  and  the  reader  may  take  notice,  of  the  thirteen  named,  nine 
were  mitred  abbeys,  each  croAAav  avrof loj  uWoov,  "  eminently  worth 
many  meaner '^  monasteries,  whose  names  follow.  1.  Canterbury, 
2.  Croyland.  3.  Peterborough.  4.  St.  Mary's,  York.  5,  Ed- 
mondsbury,  6,  Gloucester.  7.  Chichester.  8.  Glafitonbury.  8, 
Evesham. 

If  it  were  worth  the  while,  I  could  add  many  more  ;  mean  time, 
it  is  enough  to  say,  Mr.  Fox  is  the  author  wherein  this  is  to  be 
found.    Our  author  proceeds  :— 

129.  Dr.  Hkylin. — "  Hence  presently  arose  the  northern  rebellion, 
wherein  all  the  open  undertd^era  were  north  of  Trent,"  &c.  (Oh.  Hist. 
Tol.  ii.  p.  212.)  ](^ot  all  ^<  the  open  undertakers,"  I  am  sure  of  that ; 
our  author  tel^ng  us  in  the  words  next  following,  that  '^  this  commo* 
tion  began  first  in  Lincolnshire,**  no  part  whereof,  except  the  river-isle 
of  Axholme,  lies  beyond  the  Trent.  Concerning  which  we  are 
instructed  by  John  Stow,  that  ^^  at  an  assize  for  the  king's  subsidy 
kept  in  Lincolnshire,  the  people  made  an  insurrection,  and  gathered 
nigh  twenty  thousand  persons,  who  took  certain  lords  and  gentlemen 
of  the  country,  causing  them  to  be  sworn  to  them  upon  certain  Articles 
which  they  had  devised.**  For  which  rebellion,  and  some  other  prac- 
tices f^nst  the  state,  twelve  of  that  county,  that  is  to  say,  five  priests, 
and  seven  laymen,  were  not  long  after  drawn  to  Tyburn,  and  there 
hanged  and  quartered.t  By  which  we  see,  that  all  the  open  under- 
takers in  the  northern  rebellion  were  not  north  of  Trent,  nor  all  the 
principal  undertakers  neither;  some  lords  and  gentlemen  of  that 
county  (though  against  their  wills)  appearing  in  it,  and  amongst  others 
sir  John  Hussey,  created  baron  not  long  before  by  king  Henry  VIII. 
and  shortly  after  punished  by  him  with  the  loss  of  his  head,  for  being 
one  of  the  heads  of  this  insurrection.^ 

PiTLLEK. — Almost  all  Lincolnshire  lieth  north  (though  not  of 
the  foM)   of  the  foundation  of  Trent.     However,  these  words, 

•  Stow  in  Heniy  VIII.  fol.  673.  t  Idem.  fol.  674.  t  Camdbn  in 

Lincolnshire,  fed.  636, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.-  PART  If. 

«  north  of  TrenC  shall  be  altered  into,  « in  the  north    of  Eng- 
land.'*^   Our  author  proceeds  :— 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^^  Where  there  be  many  people,  there  will  be  many 
offenders ;  there  being  a  Ham  amongst  the  eight  in  the  ark ;  yea,  a 
Cain  amongst  the  four  primitire  persons  in  the  beginning  of  the 
world."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  218.)  In  this,  onr  author's  rule  is  better 
than  his  exemplification.  For  though  there  were  but  eight  persons 
in  the  ark,  whereof  Ham  was  one ;  yet  in  all  probability  there  were 
more  than  four  persons  in  the  world  at  the  birth  of  Abel,  reckoning 
him  for  one.  For  though  the  Scripture  doth  subjoin  the  birth  of  Abel 
nnto  that  of  Cain,  yet  it  was  rather  in  relation  to  the  following  story, 
wherein  Abel  was  a  principal  party,  than  that  no  other  children  had 
been  bom  between  them.  The  world  had  peopled  very  slowly,  and 
never  increased  to  such  vast  multitudes  in  so  short  a  time,  if  Eve  had 
not  twinned  at  least  at  every  birth,  and  that  some  other  children  bad 
not  intervened  between  Cain  and  Abel.  Nor  was  Cain,  in  relation  to 
the  time  of  his  brother's  birth,  to  be  accounted  of  as  Cain  in  our 
author's  sense,  that  is  to  say,  a  malefactor,  an  offender,  a  murderer  of 
his  innocent  brother ;  or,  if  we  take  him  in  that  sense,  there  must  be 
then  some  scores  of  persons  at  the  least,  if  not  many  hundreds,  and, 
consequently,  no  such  Cain  amongst  the  four  primitive  persons  in  tbe 
beginning  of  the  world,  as  our  author  would. 

"  Such  who  are  prelatically  affected,  must  acknowledge  these  neir 
foundations  of  the  king's  for  a  worthy  work,"  &c.  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii. 
p.  252.)  So  then  the  foundation  of  six  bishoprics,  with  the  capitular 
bodies,  schools,  alms-houses,  and  other  ministers  and  officers  subser- 
vient to  them,  is  to  be  thought  "  a  worthy  work  "  (with  reference  to 
the  work  itself)  by  none  but  "  such  as  are  prelatically  affected."  The 
preferment  of  so  many  men  of  learning,  the  education  of  so  many 
children,  the  maintenance  of  so  many  choirmen,  the  relief  of  so  many 
decayed  and  impotent  persons,  the  provision  made  for  so  many  of  all 
sorts,  who  had  their  being  and  subsistence  in  the  said  foundations,  bad 
nothing  in  it  which  might  signify  "a  worthy  work,"  imless  there  be 
somewhat  of  a  prelatical  persuasion  in  them  who  put  that  value  and 
esteem  upon  it.  If  any  of  a  contrary  judgment  do  approve  the  same, 
it  is  not  to  be  attributed  to  the  worth  of  the  work,  but  to  the  accidental 
use  which  the  unhappiness  of  this  age  hath  put  them  to ;  that  is  to  saj, 
by  selling  all  the  lands  which  severally  belonged  unto  them,  to  supply 
the  present  necessities  of  the  commonwealth,  as  our  author  telletb  us. 
Assuredly,  such  as  are  now  founded  in  Colleges,  or  possessed  of  tithes, 
have  good  cause  to  thank  him  for  this  discourse ;  which,  by  this  rule 
and  reason,  are  to  be  approved  of  by  none  but  those  who  are  interested 
and  concerned  in  them ;  except  it  be  with  reference  to  some  subse- 
quent sale,  when  the  pretended  exigencies  of  the  commonwealth,  or  of 
any  prevailiDg  party  in  it,  shall  require  the  same. 

Fuller. — I  pass  not  whether  there  were,  or  were  not ;  I  build 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONB  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  VI.      481 

nothing  of  consequence  thereon ;  and  the  matter  being  no  more,  I 
may  take  it  by  content  without  telling  it,  on  the  reputation  of  the 
general  opinion.     Our  author  proceeds  : — 

130.  Db.  BbVlik. — *'  It  was  in  those  days  conceived  h^hly  ii^'u*^ 
tious,  to  thrust  monks  and  nuns  out  of  house  and  home,  without 
assigning  them  any  allowance  for  their  subsistence."  (Ch.  Hist  vol.  ii. 
p.  255.y    Our  author  says  yery  well  in  this,  there  being  few  religir 
ous  persons  thrust  out  of  their  houses,  (except  those  that  suffered  by  the 
first  act  of  dissolution,)  who  either  were  not  preferred  in  the  churdi^ 
(as  Wakeman,  the  last  abbot  of  Tewkesbury,  was  by  the  king  made  the 
first  bishop  of  Gloucester,)  or  otherwise  provided  of  some  liberal  pen- 
sion, according  to  their  age,  wants,  and  quality ;  insomuch  as  sir  Wil- 
liam Weston,  lord  prior  of  the  Order  of  Su  John's,  had   a  yearly 
pension  of  a  thousand  pounds ;  Rawson,  the  subprior,  of  a  thousand 
marks ;  some  of  the  brethren,  of  two  hundred  pounds  per  annum  ; 
and  thirty  pounds  per  annum  he  that  had  least.     Nor  did  the  king 
only  give  them  such  competent  pensions  as  might  yield  them  a  subsist- 
ence for  the  fiiture,  but  furnished  them  with  ready  money  beforehand, 
(their  viaticum  or  advance-money  as  it  were,)  toward  their  setting-up 
in  the  world,  which  commonly  amounted  to  a  fourth  part  of  their 
yearly  pension.    The  like  honest  care  to  which  I  find  in  our  author^s 
"History  of  Waltham- Abbey,"  (page  261,)  where  he  telleth  us,  tha^ 
tbe  Canons  founded  there  by  king  Harold  were  not  removed  thence 
by  king  Henry  II.  (notwithstanding  the  scandalous  conversation  which 
was  charged  upon  them,)  and  Augustinian  Friars  brought  into  their 
place,  donee  prasdictis  Canonieis  suffidenter  provisumjuisset^  **  till  the 
said  Canons  were  other  ways  provided  of  suffici^  maintenance."    An4 
this  may  servo  for  the  instruction  (I  will  not  say  the  reproach)  of  the 
present  times,  in  which  so  many  bishops,  deans,  and  prebendaries,  no  way 
obnoxious  to  any  such  scandalous  accusations,  have  been  thrust  out  of 
their  cathedrals  without  the  allowance  of  one  penny  towards  their  subr 
ttstence.    The  like  may  be  said  also  in  the  case  of  the  sequestered 
<5l«rgy.    For  though,  by  an  Order  of  the  House  of  Commons,  their 
wiTes  and  children  were  to  enjoy  a  fifth  part  of  the  yearly  profits  of 
tboir  benefices,  yet  the  unconscionable  intruders  fi»und  so  many  shifts 
to  evade  that  order,  that  very  few  enjoyed  the  just  benefit  of  it ;  and 
they  that  did,  found  their  attendance  on  "  the  Committee  for  plundered 
Ministers "  so  troublesome  and  chargeable  to  them,  that  it  did  hardly 
^M  the  cost.    One  man  I  know  particularly,  who,  after  above  twenty 
<>Taers  pro  and  con^  and  the  riding  of  above  a  thousand  miles  backward 
^4  forward,  besides  a  chargeable  stay  in  London  to  attend  the  business, 
^  lam  at  last  to  make  a  private  agreement  with  the  adverse  partj^, 
^d  take  a  tenth  part  instead  of  a  fifth.    The  like  may  be  said  also  of 
e  late  Bill,  by  which  the  Presbyterian  intruders  are  settled  in  the 
^nefices  of  the  sequestered  d«gy  for  term  of  life.     For  though  it  fe 
nereby  provided,  that  the  commissioners  *'for  rejecting  of  scand^ 

I  I 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


482  APPEAL  OF  INJUR8D  INNOCRNCE.  PART  II. 

louB  ministen  "  shall  hare  powef  to  grant  a  fifth  part,  together  with  the 
arrears  thereof  to  the  sequestered  and  ejected  clergy ;  yet  is  ihe  Kll 
clogged  with  two  such  circumstances,  as  make  it  altogether  anuflefbl 
to  some,  and  may  make  it  little  beneficial  imto  all  the  rest.     For  by 
the  First  it  is  declared,  that  no  man  shall  receire  any  benefit  by  it,  who 
hath  either  thirty  pounds  per  annum  in  real^  or  five  hundred  pounds 
in  personal  estate ;  by  means  whereof  many  who  hare  had  some  hun- 
dreds of  pounds  yearly  to  maintain  their  families,  are  tied  up  to  so 
poor  a  pittance  as  will  hardly  keep  their  children  from  begging  in  the 
open  streets.    By  the  other,  there  is  such  a  power  given  to  the  Com- 
missioners, that,  '*  not  exceeding  the  fifth  part,"  they  may  give  to  the 
poor  sequestered  deigy  as  much  and  as  little  as  they  please,  under 
that  proportion.     And  one  I  know  particularly  in  this  case  also,  who 
for  an  arrear  of  twelve  years  out  of  a  benefice  rented  formerly  at 
£250  per  annuniy  to  my  certain  knowledge  could  obtain  but  £3.  6s,  Sd, 
(the  first  intruder  being  still  living,  and  possessed  of  that  benefice,) 
and  no  more  than  twenty  marks  per  annum  for  his  future  subsistence ; 
which  is  but  a  nineteenth  part,  instead  of  a  fifth.    And  this  I  have 
observed  the  rather,  that  if  these  papers  should  chance  to  come  into 
the  hands  of  any  of  those  who  have  the  conduct  of  affairs,  they  would 
be  pleased  to  cause  the  said  Bill  to  be  reviewed,  and  make  the  benefit 
thereof  more  certain  and  extensive  than  it  is  at  the  present     Our 
author  might  have  saved  me  the  greatest  part  of  this  application,  had 
he  been  minded  to  do  the  poor  clergy  any  right,  as  he  seldom  doth. 
For  proof  whereof  we  need  but  look  upon  a  passage  in  this  very  book, 
(Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  169,)  which  is  this  that  fpUoweth :— "  Once," 
saith  he,  *'  it  was^n  my  mind  to  set  down  a  catalogue  (easy  to  do,  and 
useful  when  done)  of  such  houses  of  Cistercians,  Templars,  and  Hos^ 
pitallers,  which  were  founded  since  the  Lateran  Council,  yet  going 
under  the  general  notion  of  tithe- free,  to  the  great  injury  of  the 
church.     But  since,  on  second  thoughts,  I  conceived  it  better  to  let  it 
alone,  as  not  sure,  on  such  discovery,  of  any  blessing  from  such  minis* 
ters  which  should-  gain,  but  certain  of  many  curses  from  such  laymen 
who  should  lose,  thereby."    So  he.  But  I  have  heard  it  for  a  usual  say- 
ing of  king  Henry  TV,  of  France,  that  '^  he  who  feared  the  pope's  cursr, 
the  reproaches  of  discontented  people,  and  the  frowns  of  his  mistress, 
should  never  sleep  a  quiet  hour  in  his  bed."    And  so  much  for  that. 

Fuller. — The  Animadvertor,  going  along  with  me  in  this  loDg 
note,  needeth  no  answer  of  mine.  Hereupon  he  taketh  occasion  to 
show  how  injuriously  many  sequestered  clergymen  are  dealt  with  in 
their  fifth  part ;  that,  instead  thereof,  but  k  nineteenth  part  is 
paid  in  some  places  ;  and  I  am  sorry  I  must  concur  with  him  in  so 
sad  a  truth. 

But  whereas,  after  his  too  just  complaint,  he  concludeth  with  this 
y»^c  : — ."  Our  author  might  have  saved  me  the  greatest  part  of 
this^pliGation,  had  he  been  minded  to  do  the  poor  clergy  any  right. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVEKSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  VI.     483 

as  he  seldom  doth  :  ^^  let  me  add,  **'  The  Animadvertor  might  hav^ 
saved  me  all  the  pains  of  this  answer,  had  he  not  been  minded  cause^ 
lessly  to  cavil,  as  he  often  doth.""  For  when  I  handled  the  subject 
of  the  fifth  part,  First,  I  got  the  order  for  it,  (hard  to  come  by,)  to 
be  inserted.  Secondly.  I  solemnly  answered  seven  subterfuges,  pre- 
tended by  such  as  either  wholly  refuse,  or  defectively  pay,  the  fifth 
part  to  the  sequestered  minister,  and  thus  conclude : — 

*'  I  am  sorry  to  see  the  pitiful  and  pious  intentions  of  the  Parlia- 
ment so  abused  and  deluded  by  the  indirect  dealings  of  others  ;  so 
that  they  cannot  attain  their  intended  ends,  for  the  relief  of  so  many 
poor  people,  seeing,  no  doubt,  therein  tliey  desired  to  be  like  the 
Best  of  Beings,  who  as  closely  applieth  his  lenitive  as  corrosive 
plasters,  and  that  his  mercy  may  take  as  true  efiTect  as  his  justice^ 
Sure,  if  the  present  authority  (when  at  leisure  from  higher  employ* 
ment)  shall  be  pleased  to  take  the  groans  of  these  poor  souls  intQ 
its  consideration,  the  voice  of  their  hungry  bowels  will  quickly  bfc 
turned  to  a  more  pleasant  tune,  from  barking  for  food,  to  the  bles^ 
sing  of  those  who  procured  it.  Nor  let  any  censure  this  a  digres- 
sion from  my  History ;  for  though  my  estate  will  not  suffer  me^ 
with  Job,  to  be. '  eyes  to  the  blind,  and  feet  to  the  lame,^  (Job 
xxix.  15,)  I  will  endeavour  what  I  can  to  be  a  tongue  for  the 
dumb.''  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  pp.  492,  493.) 

Let  the  reader  judge  betwixt  me  and  the  Animadvertor,  whether, 
in  this  particular  matter  controverted,  I  have  not  done  the  poor 
clergy  as  much  right  as  lay  in  my  power,  and  more  than  consisted 
with  my  safety.     Our  author  proceeds : — 

131 .  Dr.  Heylin.-^^'  But  this  was  done  without  any  great  cost  to  the 
crown,  only  by  altering  the  property  of  the  place  from  a  late-made 
cathedral  to  an  abbey."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  27B.)  Our  author  speaks 
this  of  the  church  of  Westminster ;  which  though  it  suffered  many 
changes,  yet  had  it  no  such  change  as  our  author  speaks  of;  that  is  to 
say,  from  a  cathedral  to  an  abbey,  without  any  other  alteration  which 
came  in  between.  For  when  the  monastery  was  dissolved  by  king  Henry 
VIII.  anno  15.S9,  it  was  made  a  deanery,  William  Benson  being  the 
first  dean.  In  the  year  1541,  he  made  it  an  episcopal  see,  or  cathe- 
dral church,  and  placed  Thomas  Thurlby  the  first  bishop  there.  Biit 
Thurlby  being  removed  to  Norwich,  anno  1550,  the  bishopric  was 
suppressed  by  king  Edward  YI.  and  the  church  ceased  from  being 
cathedra],  continuing  as  a  deanery  only  till  the  21st  of  November, 
1557;  at  what  time  Dr.  Hugh  Weston,  the  then  dean  thereof,  unwil- 
lingly removed  to  Windsor,  made  room  for  Feckenham  and  his  monks, 
and  so  restored  it  once  again  to  the  state  of  an  abbey,  as  our  author 
telleth  us. 

Fuller. — I  said  not,  that  it  was  imn^ediately  changed  from  a 

2  I  2 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ IC 


484  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  fkVlU 

fcatbedial  to  ah  abbey ;  bat  that  it  was  changed,  and  that  witlout 
any  great  cost  to  the  crown ;  so  my  words  want  nothing  but  a 
candid  reader  of  them.     Our  author  proceeds : — 

.  132, 133.  Dr.  Heylin. — **Nor  can  I  find,  in  the  first  year  of  queen 
Elizabeth,  any  particular  statute  wherein  (as  in  the  reign  of  king  Henij 
VIII.)  these  Orders  are  nominalitn  suppressed,"  &c.  (Ch.  Hist.  toL  ii. 
p.  281.)  But,  First,  the  sereral  Orders  of  Reli^ous  Persons  were  not 
«<8uppressed  nominatim^"  except  that  of  St.  John's,  by  a  statute  in  tlie 
time  of  king  Henry  VIII.  Secondly.  If  there  were  no  such  statute  jet 
was  it  not  because  those  Houses  '*  had  no  legal  settlement,"  as  it  afler 
foUoweth;  queen  Maiy  hcing  vested  with  a  power  of  granting  mortmains, 
and  consequently  of  founding  these  Religious  Houses  in  a  legal  war. 
Thirdly.  There  might  be  such  a  statute,  though  our  author  neyer  had 
the  good  luck  to  see  it ;  and  yet,  for  want  of  such  good  luck,  I  &i^ 
him  apt  enough  to  think  there  was  no  such  statute.  El  quod  m» 
invenit  usquam,  esse  puiat  nusquam^  in  the  poet's  language,  ina 
fluch  a  statute  as  he  speaks  of  there  was  indeed,  mentioned  and  related 
to  in  the  charter  of  queen  Elizabeth  for  founding  the  collegiate  church 
of  St.  Peter  in  Westminster.  But  heing  an  unprinted  statute,  and  of 
private  use,  it  easily  might  escape  our  author's  diligence,  though  it  did 
not  Camden's ;  who,  being  either  better-sighted,  or  more  concerned, 
had  a  yiew  thereof.  For,  telling  us  how  the  monks  with  their  ahhot 
had  been  set  in  possession  again  by  queen  Mary,  he  after  addeth,  that 
**  they  within  a  while  after  being  cast  out  by  authority  of  Parliament, 
the  most  virtuous  queen  Elizabeth  converted  it  into  a  collegiate  charch, 
or  rather  into  a  seminary  or  nurse-garden  of  the  church,"  &c.* 

FuLLEE. — I  could  not  then  find  the  statute,  and  I  «»»  ^^ 
shamed  to  confess  it.  Let  those  be  censured  who  pretend  to  have 
found  what  they  have  not,  and  so  by  their  confidence  (or  impa<|^"f 
ijrather)  abuse  posterity.  Since,  I  have  found  a  copy  thereof  m  sir 
Thomas  Cotton*s  library,  with  many  commissions  granted  thereupon? 
,for  the  dissolution  of  strgh  Marian  foundations.  Our  author  pro* 
,ceeds : — 

J34.  Db.  Heylin.— "Jesuits,  the  last  and  newest  of  dl  Orders. 

(Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  288.)     The  newest,  if  the  last,  there  is  no  douht  o 
.  that :  but  "  the  last "  they  were  not,  the  Oratorians  (as  they  call  them) 

being  of  a  later  brood ;  the  Jesuits,  founded  by  Ignatius  Loyola, » 

Spaniard,  and  confirmed  by  pope  Paul  III.  anno  1540;  the  Ora 
.  rians  founded  by  Philip  Merio,  a  Florentine,  and  confirmed  by  W 

Pius  IV.  anno  1564.     By  which  account  th^se  Oratorians  are  young«^f 

brethren  to  the  Jesuits,  by  the  space  of  four  and  twenty  years ; 

consequently  the  Jesuits    not  "the  last  and  newest  of  K®*^ 

Orders." 

«  Camdbn  in  Middlesex,  f«l.  439. 

Digitized  by  CjOOQ IC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  TH£;  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  VII.   483 

Fu^^LER. — Writing  the  "Church  History  of  Britain,'*'  I  herein 
confined  my  expression  thereunto.  The  Jesuits  are  ^^  the  last  and 
newest  Order,*^  whose  over-activity  in  our  land  commends  (or  con«» 
demns  them  rather)  to  public  notice. 

Idem  est  nan  esse^  ei  non  apparere.  .  The  Oratorians  never 
appeared  in  England,  save  an  handful  of  them,  who,  at  queen 
Mary'^s  *  first  arrival  from  France,  only  came  hither,  to  go  hence  a 
few  months  after. 


BOOK  VII. 

CONTAIKIKG    THE    REIGN    OF    KING    EDWARD    VI. 

1.^.  Dr.  Hbylin.— We  are  now  come  unto  the  reign  of  king 
Edward  YI.  which  our  author  passeth  lightly  over,  though  very  full  of 
action  and  great  alterations.     And  here  the  first  thing  which  I  meet 
with,  is  an  unnecessary  query  which  he  makes  about  the  Injimctiona 
of  this  king ;  amongst  which  we  find  one  concerning  the  religious  keep* 
iug  of  the  holy-days,  in  the  close  whereof  it  is  declared, ''  That  it  shall 
be  lawful  for  all  people,  in  time  of  harvest,  to  labour  upon  holy  and  fes- 
tival days,  and  save  that  thing  which  God  hath  sent ;  and  that  scrupu* 
losity  to  abstain  from  working  on  those  days  doth  grievously  offend 
God."    Our  author  hereupon  makes  this  query,  that  is  to  say,  ^^  Whe- 
ther in  the  twenty-fourth  Injunction,  labouring  in  time  of  harvest 
upon  holy-days  andfesiivalsy  relateth  not  only  to  those  of  ecclesiasti- 
cal constitution,  (as  dedicated  to  saints,)  or  be  inclusive  of  the  Lord's-- 
day  also  ?  "  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  309.)    Were  not  our  author  a  great 
zealot  for  the  Lord's-day  sabbath,  and  studious  to  entitle  it  to  som^ 
antiquity,  we  had  not  met  with  such  a  query.     The  law  and  practice 
of  those  times  make  this  plain  enough.     For  in  the  statute  of  5  and 
6  of  Edward  YI.  cap.  3,  the  names  and  number  of  the  holy-days 
being  first  laid  down,  that  is  to  say,  ^'  all  Sundays  in  the  year,  the  feast9  * 
of  the  Circumcision  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  of  the  Epiphany,"  &q.  with 
all  the  rest  still  kept,  and  there  named  particularly,  ft  ia  thus  enacted, 
namely,  "  That  it  shall  and  may  be  lawful  to  every  husbandman, 
labourer, fisherman,  and  to  all  and  every  other  person  and  persona  of  whaj: 
estate,  degree,  or  condition  he  or  they  be,  upon  the  holy-days  aforesaid 
in  harvest,  or  at  any  other  times  in  the  year,  when  necessity  shall  so 
require^  to  labour,  ride,  fish,  or  work  any  kind  of  work,  at  their  free 
wills  and  pleasure:  any  thing  in  this  Act  to  the  contrary  notTjrith- 
standing."     The  law  being  such,  there  is  no  question  to  be  made  iu 
point  of  practice,   nor  consequently  of  the  meaning  of  the  king^a, 

•  Henrietta  Maria^  the  qneen  of  Charfes  I. — Edit, 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


486  APPSAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCS.        PART  IL 

Injunction.  For  further  opening  of  which  truth,  we  find  in  sir  Jehu 
Hajwood'a  History  of  this  king,  that  not  the  country  onlj,  hut  the 
court  were  indulged  tiie  liherty  of  attending  huaness  on  that  day;  it 
heing  ordered  hy  the  king,  amongst  other  things,  ^that  the  Liords  of 
the  Council  should  upon  Sundays  attend  the  puUic  affiiirs  -  of  the 
realm,  Hbpatch  answers  to  letters  for  good  order  of  the  State,  and 
^lake  full  dispatches  of  all  things  concluded  the  week  hefbre  ;  pro- 
vided that  they  he  present  at  Common-Prayer.  And  that  on  CTeiy 
Sunday  night  the  king^s  Secretary  should  deliver  him  a  memorial  of 
such  things  as  are  to  he  dehated  hy  the  privy  coimdl  in  the  week 
ensuing."  *  Which  orders  had  our  author  read  and  compared  with  the 
statute,  he  had  not  needed  to  have  made  this  query  about  the  true 
intent  and  meaning  of  the  king^s  Injunction. 

FcLLER.— It  is  better  to  be  over-doubtful,  than  over-confident. 
It  had  been  much  for  the  credit,  and  nothing  against  the  conscience, 
of  the  Animadvertor,  if  he  had  made  queries,  where  he  so  positively 
and  falsely  hath  concluded  against  me.  Now  my  query  is 
answered ;  and  I  believe  that  the  Lord's  day  was  included  within 
the  number  of  holy-days,  and  common  work  permitted  thereon. 

This  maketh  me  bespeak  my  own  and  the  reader's  (justly  sus- 
pecting that  the  Animadvertor  will  not  join  with  us  herein  on  this 
account)  thankfulness  to  God,  that  the  Reformation  since  the  time 
of  king  Edward  VI.  hath  been  progressive,  and  more  perfected,  iu 
this  point  amongst  the  rest,  in  securing  the  Lord's  day  from  servile 
employments.     Our  author  proceeds : — 

136.  Dr.  Heylin. — "In  the  first  year  of  king  Edward  VI.  it  was 
recommended  to  the  care  of  the  most  grave  bishops,  and  others,  (assem- 
bled by  the  king  at  his  Castle  at  T^indsor,)  and  when  by  them  com- 
pleted, set  forth  in  print,  1548,  with  a  proclamation  in  the  king's  name, 
to  give  authority  thereunto,  being  also  recommended  unto  every  bishop 
by  especial  letters  from  the  Lords  of  the  Council  to  see  the  same  put 
in  execution.  And  in  the  next  year  a  penalty  was  imposed  by  Act  of 
Parliament  on  such  who  should  deprave  or  neglect  the  use  thereof." 
XCh.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  312.)  Our  author  here  mistakes  himself,  and  con- 
founds the  business;  making  no  difference  between  the  whole  first 
Liturgy  of  king  Edward  VI.  and  a  particular  form  of  administration. 
For  the  better  understanding  whereof,  he  may  pl<iase  to  know^  that  in 
the  first  Parliament  of  this  king  there  passed  a  statute,  (1  Edward  VI. 
cap.  1,)  entituled,  ^'  An  Act  against  such  as  speak  against  the  sacrament 
of  the  altar ;  and  for  the  receipt  thereof  in  both  kinds."  Upon  the  coming 
out  whereof,  "  the  king,  being  no  less  desirous,"  a6  Fox  relates  it,  **  to 
have  the  form  of  administration  of  the  sacrament  reduced  to  the  right 
"rule  of  the  Scriptures,  and  first  use  of  the  primitive  church,  than  he  was 
to  establish  the  same  by  authority  of  his  own  regal  laws,  appointed  cer- 

•  Hi»t.  Edvrard  VI.  p.  353. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  VII.    487 

tain  of  the  most  graTe  and  learned  bishops  and  othenr  of  his  realm  to 
assemble  together  at  his  Castle  of  Windsor,  there  to  argue  and  eiitreat 
of  this  matter,  and  conclude  upon  and  set  forth  one  perfect  and  uni- 
ibrm  order,  according  to  the  rule  and  use  aforesaid;  which  book  was< 
printed  and  set  out  March  8th,  1548,"  (which  is  1547,  according  to  the 
account  of  the  church  of   England,)  ^^  with  a  proclamation  of  the 
king's  before,  as  by  the  book  itself  appeareth."  (Acts  and  Monuments^ 
page  658.)    But  this  book,  thus  set  out  and  published,  contained 
jiLothing  but  "a  Form  and  Order  of  Administering  the  Holy  Commu^ 
nion  under  both  kinds,"  in  pursuance  of  the  statute  before-mentioned ; 
and  served  but  as  a  preamble  to  the  following  Liturgy,  a  breakfast 
(as  it  were)  to  the  feast  ensuing.    The  Liturgy  came  not  out  till  near 
tviro  years  after,  confirmed  in  Parliament  antw  2,  3  Edward  YI.  cap.  k 
and  in  that  Parliapient  cried  up  as  made  by  ^'  the  immediate  aid  ami 
inspiration  of   the    Holy  Ghost."      Which,  notwithstanding    some 
exceptions  being  taken  at  it,  (as  our  author  notes,)  by  Calvin  abroad, 
and  some  sealots  at  home,  the  book  was  '^  brought  under  a  review ; " 
much  altered  io  all  the  parts  ^nd  offices  of  it,  but  whether  unto  the  bet- 
ter, or  unto  the  worse,  let  some  others  judge. 

FuLLEE. — If  the  reader,  by  perusing  this  note  of  the  Animadr^ 
vertor,  can  methodize  the  confusion  charged  on  me,  I  shall  be  right 
glad  thereof;  and  I  wish  that  the  nice  distinction  of  the  Litvrgy^ 
and  the  Form  of  Adminigtratiouy  may  be  informative  unto  him^ 
more  than  it  is  to  me. 

The  close  of  this  Animadversion,-— "  whether  this  book  brought 
under  a  review,  much  altered  in  all  the  parts  and  offices  of  it,  be 
unto  the  better  or  unto  the  worse,'' — leaves  it  under  a  strong  sus- 
picion of  the  negative  in  the  judgment  of  the  Animadvcrtor. 

And  now  I  shall  wonder  no  more  at  the  Animadvertor'^s  falling 
foul  on  my  book,  who  (as  he  confesseth  *)  am  "  not  known  unto 
him  by  any  injury.**'  Seeing  such  distance  in  our  judgments,  that 
he  conceiveth  the  Reformation  in  the  reign  of  king  Edward  more 
perfect  than  what  was  afterwards,  *^  let  us  make  us  a  captain  and 
return  unto  Egypt."  (Numbers  xiv.  4.)  I  have  too  much  advantage 
in  my  own  hand,  and  a  principle  in  my  bosom  will  not  give  me 
leave  to  make  use  thereof  to  the  utmost.     Our  author  proceeds  :— 

137—140.  Dr.  Heylin— "At  last  the  great  eaxl  of  Warwick 
deserted  his  chaplain  in  open  field  to  shift  for  himself.  Indeed,  he 
had  higher  things  in  his  head,  than  to  attend  such  trifles."  (Ch.  Hist, 
vol.  ii.  p.  333.)  A  man  may  easily  discern  a  cat  by  her  claw ;  and  we 
may  find  as  easily,  by  the  scratches  of  our  author  s  pen,  to  what  party 
in  the  church  he^tands  most  inclined.  He  had  before  declared  for^the^ 
Dominicans  and  Rigid  Calvinists  in  some  points  of  doctrine,  and  no\v^ 
declaies  himself  for  the  Nonconformists  in  point  of  ceremony.  Ho. 
'-    '-        ,  •  In  hii  Introduction,  p.  3  iS[.  •       i 


Digitized  by 


Google 


483  APPEAL  OF  INJURBI)  INNOCBNCIf.  *ART  II 

liad  not  else  called'  tlie  episcopal  ornaments,  particularly  the  rochet, 
chimere,  and  sqnare-cap,  bj  the  name  of  "  trifles ; "  such  trifles  as 
were  not  worth  the  contending  for,  if  resolute  Ridley  had  been  pleased 
to  dispense  therein.  The  truth  is,  that  Hoopei's  opposition  in  this  parti- 
cular gave  the  first  ground  to  those  combustions  in  the  church  which 
after  followed ;  Calrin  extremely  stickling  for  him,  and  writing  to  his 
party  here  to  assist  him  in  it.  And  this  I  take  to  be  the  reason  whj 
our  author  is  so  fevourable  in  his  censure  of  him,  page  330,  and  puts 
such  answers  in  the  mouths  of  the  Nonconformist,  page  332,  as  I  can 
hardly  think  were  so  well  hammered  and  accommodated  in  those  earlj 
days ;  such  as  seem  rather  fitted  for  the  temper  and  acumen  of  the 
present  times,  after  a  long  debating  of  all  particulars  and  a  strict  search 
into  all  the  niceties  of  the  controversy,  than  to  the  first  bepnniDgj 
and  unpremeditated  agitations  of  a  new-bom  quarrel. 

"  Yet  this  work  met  afterwards  with  some  firowns  even  in  the  (am 
of  great  clergymen,  &c.  because  they  conceived  these  singing-psalms 
erected  in  corrivality  and  opposition  to  the  reading-psalms,  which  were 
formerly  sung  in  cathedral  churches."  (Oh.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  336.)  Aad 
those  "  great  churchmen  "  had  good  reason  for  what  they  did,  wiselj 
foreseeing  that  the  singing  of  those  psalms  so  tnmslated  in  rhythm  and 
metre  would  work  some  alteration  in  the  executing  of  the  pubhc 
Liturgy.  For,  First,  though  it  be  expressed  in  the  title  of  tliose 
singing-psalms,  that  they  were  "  set  forth  and  allowed  to  be  sung  in  all 
churches  before  and  after  Morning  and  Evening  Prayer;  and  also 
before  and  after  sermons ; "  yet  this  allowance  seems  rather  to  have 
been  a  connivance  than  an  approbation :  no  such  allowance  being 
any  where  found  by  such  as  have  been  most  industrious  and  con- 
cerned in  the  search  thereof.  Secondly.  Whereas  it  was  intended  that 
the  said  psalms  should  be  only  sung  "  before  and  after  Morning  and 
Evening  Prayer ;  and  also  before  and  after  sermons,"  (which  shows 
they  were  not  to  be  intermingled  in  the  public  liturgy,)  in  very  little 
fime  they  prevailed  so  far  in  most  parish  churches,  as  to  thrust  the 
jTe  Deum^  the  Benedictus^  the  Magnificat^  and  the  Nunc  dimititSi 
quite  out  of  the  churcl^  And,  Thirdly,  by  the  practices  and  endea- 
vours of  the  Puritan  party,  they  came  to  be  esteemed  the  most  divine 
part  of  God's  public  service ;  the  reading-psalms  together  with  the 
first  and  second  lessons  being  heard  in  many  places  with  a  covered  bead^ 
bit  airmen  sitting  bareheaded  when  the  psalm  is  sung.  And  to  that 
end,  the  parish  clerk  must  be  taught  when  he  names  the  psalm,  to  caj| 
upon  the  people  to  sing  it ''  to  the  praise  and  glory  of  God ; "  no  sich 
preparatory  exhortation  being  used  at  the  naming  of  the  chapters  or 
the  daily  psalms.  But  whereas  our  author  seems  to  intimate  that  the 
reading-psalms  were  formerly  sung  only  in  cathedral  churches,  he  is 
exceedingly  mist^en  both  in  the  Rubrics  of  the  tchurch,  and  the 
practice  too ;  the  Rubrics  leaving  them  indifferently  "  to  be  said  or 
^^^^y'  according  as  the  congregation  was  fitted  for  it;  the  practice ^^ 
some  parish  churches,  within  the  time  of  my  memory,  being  for  i* 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


AK^iMADV^RSlOKS  OK  THK  CHURCB  HiSTOIlY,  BOOK  VII.  489 

also.  Aim]  this  our  attthot  (a«  I  think)  cannot  choose  but  know,  if  he 
be  but  as  well  studied  in  the  rules  of  the  church,  as  in  some  pqpish 
legends  and  old  e^ds  of  poetry. 

*^Let  Adonijah  and  this  lord's  example  deter  subjects  from  med^ 
dling  with  the  widows  of  their  soTereigns,  lest  in  the  same  match  they 
espouse  their  own  danger  and  destruction."  (Ch.  Hist.  toI.  ii.  p.  338.) 
J  see  little  reason  for  this  rule,  less  for  his  examples.  For,  First, 
Abishag  the  Shunamite,  whom  Adonijah  desired  to  have  to  wife,  was 
nerer  manied  unto  Darid;  and  therefore  cannot  properly  be  called 
**  bh  widow."  And,  Secondly,  qaeea  Catherine  Parr,  the  widow  of 
Ising  Henry  VIH.  and  wife  unto  sir  Thomas  Seymour,  (the  lord  here 
mentioned,)  is  generally  charactered  for  a  lady  of  so  meek  a  nature, 
as  not  to  contribute  any  thing  towards  his  destruction.  Had  the  duchess 
t>f  Somerset  been  less  imperious  than  she  was,  or  possessed  but  of  one 
half  of  that  equanimity  which  carried  queen  Catherine  off  in  all  times 
Ckf  her  troubles,  this  lord  might  have  Uyed  happily  in  the  arms  of  his 
lady,  and  gone  in  peace  unto  the  grave.  We  find  the  like  match  to 
iiave  been  made  between  another  Catherine,  the  widow  of  another 
'Henry,  and  Owen  Tudor,  a  private  gentleman  of  Wales,  prosperous 
and  comfortable  to  them  both ;  though  Owen  was  inferior  to  sir  TLo* 
mas  Seymour  both  in  birth  and  quality,  and  Catherine  of  Yalois, 
daughter  to  Charles  YI.  of  France,  far  more  superior  in  her  blood  to 
queen  Catherine  Parr.  The  like  may  be  said  also  of  the  marriage  of 
Adeliza,  daughter  of  Geoffrey,  earl  of  Louvun  and  duke  of  Brabant, 
and  widow  to  king  Henry  I.,  married  to  William  de  Albeney,  a  noble 
gentleman,  to  whom  she  brought  the  castle  and  honour  of  Arundelj 
conferred  upon  hejr  by  the  king  her  former  husband,  continuing  in  the 
possession  of  their  posterity,  though  in  several  families,  to  this  very 
day ;  derived  by  the  heirs-general  from  this  house  of  Albany  to  that 
of  the  Fitz- Alans,  and  from  them  to  the  Howards,  the  now  earls 
thereof.  Many  more  examples  of  which  kind,  fortunate  and  success^ 
ful  to  each  party,  might  be  easily  found,  were  it  worth  the  while. ' 

Fuller. — I  say  not  that  they  were  trifles,  but  that  John 
Dudley,  earl  of  Warwick,  (afterwards  duke  of  Northumberland,) 
counted  them  so,  in  respect  to  his  high  designs  to  the  crown.  Yea, 
it  is  more  than  suspicious,  that  his  ambition  esteemed  greater  mat- 
ters than  ceremonies,  "  mere  trifles,''  even  religion  itself,  which  he 
so  often  changed. 

If  the  cat  hath  put  in  her  claw,  let  her  put  in  her  whole  foot. 
I  conceive  such  vestments  comparatively  trifles,  as  to  things  neces^ 
sary  to  salvation.     And  thus  I  prove  it : — 

I  dare  wager  with  the  Animadvertor,  that,  take  the  clergy  of 
£ngland,  as  constituted  1640,  three  parts  of  four  did  not  know 
what  a  chimere  was.  Nor  is  this  any  diminution  to  their  learning 
and  religion  ;  seeing  they  were  not  bound  to  take  cognizance  thereof. 
And  therefore  I  believe  one  may  safely  call  it  "a  trifle,**'  without 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


490  APPEAL  OF  INJURfiD  INN0C£NC£.  ^AftT  II. 

the  knowledge  of  vhich  word,  and  what  was  meant  theieby,  so 
many  flocks  of  pious  and  learned  shepherds  have  gone  to  heaven. 

As  fot  the  Animadvertor's  additory  note  whic^  foUoweth,  con- 
cerning the  singing  of  psalms  in  churches,  I  am  not  concerned 
therein. 

Nor  will  I  here  insert  his  instances  of  some  fortunate  sulgects, 
who  married  queens,  seeing  I  say  not  alwats,  but  "o;?^,  suck 
matches  prove  unprosperous."    Our  author  proceeds  : — 

141, 142.  Db.  Hbylin.— **  This  barren  Gonyocation  is  entitnled 
*  the  parent  of  those  articles  of  religion,'  (forty-two  in  number,)  whick 
are  printed  with  this  preface:  Articuli  dequibus  in  St^nodo  LondineHtif 
Ac.  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  353.)  Our  author  here  is  guilty  of  a  gi«ater 
crime,  than  that  of  scandalum  magnatumy  making  king  Edward  YI. 
of  pious  memory,  no  better  than  an  impious  and  lewd  impostor.  For  if 
the  Convocation  of  this  year  were  barren,  (as  he  saith  it  was,)  it  could 
neither  be  the  parent  of  those  Articles,  nor  of  the  short  Catecliism 
which  was  printed  with  them,  countenanced  by  the  king's  letters 
patents  prefixed  before  it.  For,  First,  the  title  to  the  Articles  run- 
neth thus  at  large,  namely,  Articuli  de  quibus  in  Synodo  Londinensiy 
anno  1552,  inter  episcopoi  et  alios  eruditos  viros  convenerat,  ad  tot- 
lendam  opinionum  dissension  em^  et  cotisensum  verce  religionis  firman- 
dum^  regid  authoriiate  in  lucem  editi.  Which  title  none  duret  h&re 
adventured  to  set  before  them,  had  they  not  really  been  the  products 
of  that  Convocation. 

Secondly.  The  king  had  no  reason  to  have  any  such  *' jealousy"  at 
that  time  of  "  the  major  part  of  the  clergy,"  but  that  he  might  "  trust 
them  with  a  power  to  meddle  with  matters  of  religion ;"  (which  is  the 
only  argument  our  author  brlngeth  against  those  Articles ;)  this  Con- 
vocation being  holden  in  the  sixth  year  of  his  reign,  when  most  of  the 
episcopal  sees  and  parochial  churches  were  filled  with  men  agreeable  to 
his  desires,  and  generally  conformable  to  the  form  of  worship  then  oy 
law  established. 

Thirdly.  The  church  of  England,  for  the  first  five  years  of  qaeen 
Elizabeth,  retained  thes^  Articles,  and  no  other,  as  the  public  tendries 
of  the  church  in  points  of  doctrine ;  which  certainly  she  had  not  done, 
had  they  been  recommended  to  her  by  a  less  authority  than  a  ConTO- 
cation.  • 

Fourthly  and  Lastly.  We  have  the  testimony  of  our  author  against 
himself;  who,  telling  us  of  the  catechism  above-mentioned,  that  » 
was  of  the  same  extraction  with  the  Book  of  Articles,  adds  afker^^"^^ 
that,  "being  first  composed  by  Sk  single  person  it  was  perused  fl«* 
allowed  by  the  bishops  and  other  learned  men,  (understand  it  ^^ 
Convocation^)  and  by  royal  authority  commended  to  all  subjects^  fl'"^ 
commanded  to  all  schoolmasters  to  teach  it  their  scholars"  (Cb.  H^^ 
vol.  ii,  p.  354.)     So  that  this  Catechism  being  allowed  by  the  bis 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIIAADVBRSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH -Ht8T0RT>  BOOK  VIII.  491 

ftnd  other  learned  men  in  the  Conyocation,  and  the  Articles  being 
said  to  be  '^  of  the  same  extraction ; "  it  must  needs  follow  thereupon, 
that  these  Articles  had  no  other  parent  than  this  Conyocation.  The 
truth  iky  that  the  records  of  Conyocation,  during  this  king's  whole 
reign,  and  the  finst  years  of  queen  Mary,  are  yery  imperfect  and  defec- 
tiye ;  most  of  them  lost,  and  amongst  others  those  of  this  present 
year ;  and  yet  one  might  conclude  as  strongly  that  my  mother  died 
childless,  because  my  christening  is  not  to  he  found  in  the  parish 
register ;  as  that  the  Cotiyocation  of  this  year  was  barren,  because  the 
Acts  and  Articles  of  it  are  not  entered  in  the  journal-book. 

Fuller. — Here  is  an  high  charge  indeed.  I  believe  that  T  am 
generally  believed  to  have  as  high  a  reverence  for  the  memory  of 
king  Edward  as  the  Animadvertor  himself. 

The  Journals  of  the  Convocation  in  this  king^s  reign  I  have 
carefully  perused,  which  are  no  better  than  blank  paper,  containing 
only  the  names  of  the  members  therein  daily  meeting,  without  any 
matter  of  moment  (yea,  any  matter  at  all)  registered  to  be  per- 
formed by  them.  But  I  wholly  refer  myself  to  what  I  have  written 
in  my  "  Church-History  '*  of  this  hard  subject,  making  it  there  as 
plain  as  I  could ;  which  the  Animadvertor  hath  a  mind  again  to 
involve  and  perplex. 


BOOK  Vill. 

THE    REIGN    OF    QUEEN    MARY. 

143.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^We  next  proceed  unto  the  short  but  trouble- 
some reign  of  queen  Mary ;  in  which  the  first  thing  that  occurs,  is, 
"  But  the  Commons  of  England,  who,  for  many  years  together,  had 
conned  loyalty  by  hfeart  out  of  the  Statute  of  the  Succession,  were  so 
perfect  in  their  lesson,  that  they  would  not  be  put  out  of  it  by  this 
new-started  design."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  368.)  In  which  I  am  to 
note  these  things  :  First.  That  he  makes  the  loyalty  of  the  Commons 
of  England  not  to  depend  upon  the  primogeniture  of  their  princes,  but 
on  the  Statute  of  Succession ;  and  then  the  object  of  that  loyalty  must 
not  be  the  king,  but  the  Act  of  Parliament,  by  which  they  were 
directed  to  the  knowledge  of  the  next  successor :  and  then  it  must  needis 
he  in  the  power  of  Parliaments  to  dispose  of  the  kingdom  as  they 
pleased ;  the  people's  loyalty  being  tied  to  such  dispositions. 
Secondly*  That  the  Statutes  of  Succession  had  been  so  many,  and  so 
contrary  to  one  another,  that  the  Common  people  could  not  readily 
tell  which  to  trust  to ;  and  for  the  last,  it  related  to  the  king's  last 
"Win  and  Testament,  so  lately  made  and  known  unto  so  few  of  the 
Commons,  that  they  had  neither  opportunity  to  see  itj  nor  time 
to  con  the  same  by  heart.     Nor,  Thirdly,  were  the  Commons  so  per- 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


4^2  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.       PART  11. 

feet  in  this  lesson  of  loyalty,  or  had  so  fixed  it  in  their  hearts,  but  that 
they  were  willing  to  foiget  it  within  little  time,  and  take  oitt  such  new 
lessons  of  disobedience  and  disloyalty,  as  Wyat  and  his  partisans  did 
preach  unto  them.  And,  Finally,  iiiej  had  not  so  well  conned  this 
lesson  of  loyalty,  in  our  author  s  own  judgment,  but  that  some  strong 
pretender  might  have  taught  them  a  new  art  of  obliyion :  it  being  no 
improbable  thing  (as  himself  confesseth)  ^'  to  haye  heard  of  a  king 
lieniy  IK.  if  Heniy  Fitz-Roy,  the  duke  of  Somerset  and  Richmond, 
had  liyed  so  long  as  to  the  death  of  king  Fdward  YI." 

Fuller. — I  make  not  the  loyalty  of  the  Commons  to  depend 
on,  but  to  be  directed  by,  the  Statute  of  Succession. 

In  such  intricacies,  it  was  good  to  have  such  a  guide  to  lead 
nien'^s  judgments  in  the  right.  And  though  some  malconteDts 
started  from  their  loyalty,  the  generality  of  the  Com]noD&  of  Eng- 
land kept  constant  unto  it.     Our  author  proceeds  :— 

144.^146.  Dr.  Heylin. — "Aflerwards  Pt^ilpot  was  trouUed  by 
Gardiner  for  his  words  spoken  in  the  Conyocation.  In  yain  did 
he  plead  the  priyilege  of  the  place,  commonly  reputed  a  part  of 
Parliament."  (Ch.  Hist.  yol.  ii.  p.  384.)  I  cannot  find  that  tbe 
Conyocation  at  this  time,  nor  many  years  before  this  time,  was 
commonly  reputed  as  a  part  of  the  Parliament.  That  anciently 
it  had  been  so,  I  shall  easily  grant ;  there  being  a  clause  in  eyery 
letter  of  summons  by  which  the  bishops  were  required  to  attend 
in  Parliament,  that  they  should  warn  the  clergy  of  their  seyeral  and 
respectiye  diocesses,  some  in  their'  persons,  and  others  by  their  procu- 
rators, to  attend  there  also.  But  this  hath  been  so  long  unpractised, 
that  we  find  no  track  or  footsteps  of  it  since  the  Parliaments  of  the 
time  of  king  Richard  II.  It  b  true„  indeed,  that  in  the  eighth  year  of 
king  Henry  YI.  there  passed  a  statute  by  which  it  was  enacted^ 
"  That  all  tie  clergy  which  should  be  called  thenceforth  to  the  Conyo- 
cation by  the  king'ti  writ,  together  with  their  serrants  and  families^ 
should  for  ever  after  fully  use  and  enjoy  such  liberty  or  immunity  in 
coming,  tarrying,  and  returning,  as  the  great  men  and  commonalty  of 
the  realm  of  England,  called  or  to  be  called  to  the  king's  Parliament, 
haye  used  or  ought  to  haye  or  enjoy/'*  Which  though  it  make  the 
Convocation  equal  to  the  Parliament,  as  to  the  freedom  of  their  per* 
sons ;  yet  can  it  not  from  hence  be  reckoned,  and  much  less  ^'  com* 
monly  reputed,**  for  a  part  thereof. 

"  Indeed  the  queen  bare  Pole  an  unfeigned  affection ;  and  no  won- 
der to  him  that  considereth,  1.  Their  age;  he  being  about  ten  years 
older, — the  proportion  allowed  by  the  philosopher  betwixt  husband 
and  wife,"  &c.  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  388.)  In  queen  Mary*s  affection 
unto  Pole,  and  the  reasons  of  it,  I  am  very  well  satisfied,  better  than 
in  the  explication  which  he  adds  unto  it.     For  if  by  "  the  philosopher" 

•  Rastals  "  Abridgment,"  fd,  ,423.  -  'i 

Digitized  by  CjOOQ IC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH ^HISTORV,  BOOK  VIII.  493 

be  means  Aiistotle,  as  I  think  he  doth,  he  is  very  much  ont  in  making 
no  more  than  ten  years  to  be4he  proportion  allowed  hy  him  betwixt 
the  husband  and  the  wife.  For  Aristotle,  in  the  seventh  book  of  his 
Politics,  haying  discoursed  of  the  fittest  time  and  age  for  marriage  both 
in  men  and  women,  concludes  at  last,  that  ^'  it  is  expedient  that  maidens 
be  marrie<l  about  the  age  of  eighteen  years,  and  men  at  seyen  and 
tbirty,  or  thereabouts."  His  reason  is,  ^£y  roo-oirm  yap  axjxa^ovo-i 
T6  Tols  cwfAOLcri  (Tv^sv^is  i^ony  xeCi  vpo$  TYjV  mavXav  rris  Tsxvotrottag 
avyxarafi^aerai  Toi$  ;^govoi^  euxa/pa;*  that  is  to  say,  "  Because  they 
shall  then  be  joined  in  wedlock,  while  their  bodies  be  in  fiill  strength, 
and  shall  cease  from  procreation  in  fit  time."*  Whether  so  great  a  dis- 
proportion were  allowed  of  then,  or  that  it  was  a  matter  of  speculation 
only,  and  not  reducible  to  practice,  I  dispute  not  now.  Only  I  note 
that  it  is  twenty  years,  not  len^  which  the  philosopher  requires  in  the 
different  ages  of  the  man  and  wife. 

^Lincoln  diocess,  the  largest  of  the  whole  kingdom,  containing 
Leicester,  &c.  ii«ith  parts  of  Hertford  and  Warwick  shires."  (Ch.  Hist. 
yd.  ii.  p.  395.)  That  the  great  diocess  of  Lincoln  containeth  the 
whole  counties  of  Bedford,  Buckingham,  Huntingdon,  Leicester,  and 
Lincoln,  with  part  of  Hertfordshire,  is  confessed  by  all ;  but  that  it 
containetb  also  some  part  of  Warwickshire,  I  do  yery  much  doubt. 
Certain  I  am,  that  archbishop  Parker,t  a  man  yery  well  skilled  in  the 
jurisdiction  of  his  suffragan  bishops,  assigns  no  part  of  Warwickshire 
to  the  see  of  Lincoln ;  diyiding  that  county  between  the  bishop  of 
Coyentry  and  Lichfield,  and  the  bishop  of  Worcester.  I  see  by  this, 
our  author  is  resolyed  to  play  at  all  games,  though  he  get  by  none. 

Fuller. — I  only  say,  that  Mr.  Philpot  pleaded  it,  (and  that  in 
vain,)  that  it  was  so  reputed,  as  may  plainly  appear  in  Mr.  Fox ; 
so  that  my  words  are  liable  to  no  just  exception.  Our  author 
proceeds: — 

147.  Dk.  Heylin. — "  The  Litany,  surplice,  and  other  ceremonies  in 
service  and  sacraments^  they  omitted,  both  as  superfluous  and  super- 
itttious."  (Ch.  Hist.  yol.  iL  p.  407.)  Our  author  speaks  this  of  the 
Bchismatical  congregation  at  Frankfort,  who  turned  the  public  Church- 
Liturgy  quite  out  of  their  church,  fashioning  to  themselyes  a  new 
form  of  worship,  which  had  no  warrant  and  foundation  by  the  laws  of 
this  realm.  And,  First,  saith  he,  "tbe  Litany,  surplice,  and  other 
ceremonies,  they  omitted,  both  as  superfluous  and  superstitictus." 
Superfluous  and  superstitious^ — ^in  whose  opinion?  In  that  of  the 
schismatics  at  Frankfort,  our  author's,  or  in  both  alike  ?  Most  proba- 
ble in  our  author  s,  as  well  as  theirs ;  for,  otherwise,  he  would  have 
added  some  note  of  qualification,  sudi  as,  "  they  thought,  they  judged, 
^r  they  supposed  them : "  according  as  he  hath  restrained  them  to 
their  own  sense  in  the  clause  next  following,  namely,  "  In  place  of  the 

•  Aristotle,  Pol.  1.  vii.  cap.  1^.  f  Antiquit,  Brittm, 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


I 

494  AFPEAt  OF  INJURED  INNOCfiNCE.  PART  11. 

Englisit  Confettion,  tbej  used  another,  adjudged  by  &em  of  mort 
effect."  Adjudged  ky  them  in  this,  not  the  former  senteace,  makes 
me  inclinable  to  beliere  that  the  Litaoy,  garplice,  and  other  ceremo* 
nies  are  both  '^eaperflaoiu  and  superstitioiifl''  in  onr  author's  judg- 
ment,  not  in  theirs  alone«  Secondly.  Our  author  (as  we  bare  noted 
formeily  on  the  second  book  of  this  History)  reckons  the  cross  in  bap* 
tism,  used  and  required  to  be  used  by  the  church  of  England^  among 
**  the  superstitious  ceremonies  and  such  like  trinkets  mdi  which  that 
sacrament  is  loaded."  And  if  he  durst  declare  himself  so  plain  in  this 
second  book,  written,  as  he  affirms,  in  the  reign  of  the  late  king,  when 
he  might  fear  to  be  called  to  an  account  fcHr  that  expression,  there  is 
little  question  to  be  made  but  ^^  since  Monarchy  was  turned  into  a 
State,"  he  would  giro  his  pen  more  liberty  than  he  did  before,  in 
counting  '^  the  Litany,  surpUoe,  and  other  ceremonies  as  superfluous 
and  superstitious,"  as  the  cross  in  baptism. 

Fuller. — ^This  note  might  well  have  been  spared.  I  appeal  to 
such  as  knew  my  conformity  in  the  CoUe^  chapel,  country 
parishes,  and  cathedral  of  Sarum,  to  be  my  compurgators  in  this 
unjust  accusation. 

148.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^Thirdly.  Having  laid  down  an  abstract  of  the 
form  of  worship  contrived  by  the  schismatics  at  Frankfort,  he  honour- 
eth  them  with  no  lower  title  than  that  of  '^  saints ; "  and  counts  this 
liberty  of  deviating  from  the  rules  of  the  church  for  a  part  of  their 
happiness.  For  so  it  followeth  :  "  This,"  saith  he,  "  is  the  communion 
of  saintSy  who  never  account  themselves  peaceably  possessed  of  any 
happiness,  until  (if  it  be  in  their  power)  they  have  also  made  their 
fellow-sufferers  partakers  thereof."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  406.)  K 
those  be  ^'  saints "  who  separate  themselves  schismatically  from  their 
mother-church ;  and  if  it  be  a  happiness  to  ihem  to  be  permitted  so  to 
do ;  our  author  hath  all  the  reason  in  the  world  to  desire  to  be  admitted 
into  their  communion,  and  be  made  partaker  of  that  happiness  which 
such  saints  enjoy.  And  if,  in  order  thereunto,  he  counts  "  the  Litany, 
surplice,  and  other  ceremonies  of  the  church  to  be  both  superstitious 
and  superfluous  "  too,  who  can  blame  him  for  it  ? 

Fuller. — If  God  were  not  more  merciful  unto  us,  than  we  are 
charitable  one  to  another,  what  would  become  of  us  all  ? 

I  humbly  conceive  that  these  exiles  (though  I  will  not  advocate 
for  their  carriage  in  all  particulars)  had  more  liberty  in  modelling 
theur  own  church,  than  such  as  live  in  England,  under  a  settled 
government,  commanded  by  authority.  "Schismatic,''  in  my 
mind,  is  too  harsh  for  such  who  fled  and  suffered  for  their  con- 
science. However,  I  conceive  a  saintship^  not  inconsistent  with 
such  schismaticalness  ;  God  graciously,  on  their  general  repentance, 
forgiving  them  their  fault  herein.     Our  author  proceeds  :*— 

149.  Dr.  Hetun.^"  Trinity  College  built  by  sir  Thomas  Pope." 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ  l€ 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  VIII.  495 

(Oh.  Hist.  Tol.  ii.  p.  426.)  I  shall  not  derogate  so  much  from  sir 
Thomas  Pope,  as  our  author  doth  from  Tziiiitj  College,  naming  no 
bishop  of  this  House,  as  he  doth  of  others.  He  telb  us  that  he  lived 
in  this  Unirecsit  J  about  seventeen  weeks ;  and  all  that  time  Dr.  Skin- 
ner, the  bishop  of  Oxford,  lived  there  too.  Dr.  Wright,  the  bishop  of 
Lichfield,  probably  was  then  living  also,  (for  he  deceased  not  till  after 
the  beginning  of  the  year  1643,)  but  living  at  that  time  in  his  own 
house  of  Ecdesal  Castle.  Both  of  them  members  of  this  Collie,  and 
therefore  worthily  deserving  to  have  found  some  place  in  our  author's 
History.  And  because  our  author  can  find  no  learned  writers  of  this 
College  neither,  I  will  supply  him  with  two  others  in  that  kind  also^ 
The  First  whereof  shall  be  John  Selden,  of  the  Inner  Temple, 
6  vTip)  m&y  crs^raiSsujxffvof ,  that  renowned  humanitian  and  philologer, 
sometimes  a  Commoner  of  this  House,  and  here  initiated  in  those 
studies  in  which  he  afterwards  attained  to  so  high  an  eminence.  The 
Second,  William  Chillingworth,  an  able  and  acute  divine,  and  once  a 
Fellow  of  tills  College ;  whose  book  intituled,  ^^  The  Religion  of  Pro* 
testants  a  safe  Way  to  Salvation,"  written  in  defence  of  Dr.  Potter's 
book  called  *^  Charity  mistaken,"  commended  by  our  author,  (Ch. 
Hist.  vol.  i.  p.  424,)  remains  unanswered  by  the  Jesuits,  notwith-; 
standing  all  their  brags  beforehand,  to  this  very  day.  Which  book, 
though  most  ridiculously  buried  witbi  the  author  at  Arundel,  ("  Get 
thee  gone,  thou  accursed  book,"  &c.)  by  Mr.  Francis  Cheynel,  thg 
usufhictuaiy  of  the  rich  parsonage  of  Petworth,  shall  still  survive  unto 
the  world  in  its  own  just  value,  when  the  poor  three-penny  commodi- 
ties of  such,  a  sorry  haberdasher  of  small  wares  shall  be  out  of  credit. 
Of  this  pageant,  see  the  pamphlet  called  Chillingworthi  NovUsima^ 
printed  at  London,  anno  1644. 

Puller. — If  the  Animadvertor  had  written  an  History  of  Cam* 
bridge,  perchance  he  would  have  made  as  many  and  great  omissions. 
I  have  craved  solemn  pardbn  of  the  reader  when  such  failings 
should  occur  ;— 

"  I  humbly  request  the  antiquaries  of  their  respective  foundations, 
best  skilled  in  their  own  worthy  natives,  to  insert  their  own  obser- 
vations ;  which  if  they  would  restore  unto  me  against  the  nex^ 
edition  of  this  work,  if  it  be  thought  worthy  thereof,  God  shall  have 
the  glory,  they  the  public  thanks,  and  the  world  the  benefit,  of  their 
contributions  to  my  endeavours.'*'  (Ch.  Hist,  vol.  i.  p.  363.) 

Bishop  Wright  is  entered-in  (where  he  ought)  a  Warden  of 
Wadham  ;  the  rest  shall  be  inserted  in  the  next  edition,  with  my 
worthy  friend  Mr.  Gilbert  Ironside  of  the  same  foundation. 

Mr.  Cheynel  is  now  rather  the  object  of  the  Animadvertor's 
prayer  and  pity,  than  of  his  anger.*     Our  author  proceeds  : — 

*  Though  HejrUn'B  TitnpeiratiTe  expiettiong  on  this  rabyecC  weze,  '*  speaking  after  the 
manner  of  men/'  not  nnmerited  by  the  occaaion ;  yet  every  txne  Christian  mnat  admire 
Faller'e  characteriatle  inclination  to  "  prayer  and  pity,"  especially  on  being  informed, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


496  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  If. 

150.  Dr.  Hetlik.— '^  Bui,  now  it*  is  gone,  let  it  go ;  it  was  but  a 
beggarly  town,  and  cost  England  ten  times  jesatly  more  than  it  was 
worth  in  keeping  thereof."  (Ch.  Hist.  toL  iL  p.  429.)     Admit  it  be 
so,  yet  certainly  it  was  worth  the  keeping,  had  it  cost  much  more* 
The  English,  while  they  kept  that  town,  had  a  door  open  into  France 
upon  all  occasions ;  and  therefore  it  was  commonly  said  that  tbej 
carried  the  keyn  of  France  at  their  girdles.     Sound  statesmen  do  not 
measure  the  benefit  of  such  towns  and  garrisons  as  are  maintained  and 
kept  in  an  enemy's  country,  by  the  profit  whidi  they  bring  into  their 
Exchequer,  bat  by  the  opportunities  they  give  a  prince  to  enlarge  his 
territories.     Of  this  kind  was  the  town  of  Berwick,  situate  on  the 
other  side  of  the  Tweed,  upon  Scottish:  ground ;  but  garrisoned  and 
maintained  with  great  charge  by  the  king  of  England,  because  it  gare 
him  the  same  advantage  against  the  Scots,  as  Calais  did  against  the 
French.     The  goyemsnent  of  which  last  town  is  by  Comines  said  to  be 
**  the  goodliest  captainship  in  the  world ; "  so  great  an  eye-sore  to  the 
French,  that  Monsieur  de  Cordes  (who  lived  in  the  time  of  Lewis  XL) 
was  used  to  say,  that  "  he  would  be  content  to  lie  in  hell  seven  years 
together,  upon  condition  that  Calais  were  regaiued  from  the  English ; 
and,  finally,  judged  of  such  importance  by  the  French,  when  thej  had 
regained  it,  that  neither  the  agreement  made  at  the  treaty  of  Cambiay, 
nor  the  desire  to  free  Newhiiven  from  the  power  of  the  English,  nor 
tjie  necessities  which  Henry  IV.  was  reduced  unto,  could  ever  p^vail 
upon  them  to  part  with  it.     But  it  is  dry  meat,  said  the  countiy- 
fellow,  when  he  lost  the  hare ;  and  so  let  Calais  pass  for  ''  a  beggarly 
town,"  and  "  not  worth  the  keeping,"  because  we  have  no  hope  to 
get  it. 

Fuller. — The  Animadvertor  might  understand  my  meaning, 
even  to  make  the  best  of  a  bad  matter,  when  it  cannot  be  helped. 

A  key  fiilleth  under  a  double  valuation :  one,  for  the  intrinsicai 
works,  from  the  weight  thereof  in  metal,  which  is  very  inconsider- 
able. The  other,  from  the  use  thereof,  and  thus  its  price  riseth  or 
falleth,  as  it  openeth  to  more  or  less  treasure. 

Calais,  I  confess,  in  the  second  consideration,  was  a  f^^^  f 
main  importance ;  yet  indeed  it  cost  a  vast  expense  in  keeping  lU 
as  by  a  book  in  the  Exchequer  (which  some  months  since  1 
perused)  doth  appear ;  the  charge  amounting  to  an  innumerable 
sum,-f-  at  the  rate  of  money  in  that  age. 

that,  St  the  time  when  Heylin's  '*  Animadveraions''  weie  pablished,  the  headitroog  ^ 
unfortunate  Dr.  Francis  Cheynel  was  labonring  nnder  confirmed  aberration  of  ^*^\v' 
His  conduct  in  many  of  those  exciting  scenes  through  which  he  had  previously  P***:* 
exhibit  strong  traces  of  the  same  mental  complaint,  then  not  fully  devek^^ed ;  and  itivoti 
be  an  act  of  the  gp-eatest  uncharitableness,  were  the  unseemly  and  disgusting  beb>^^ 
of  an  individual  at  the  ftmeral  of  the  great  Chillingworth  to  be  imputed  to  the  ^^^ 
party  with  whom  he  was  connected,  when  every  man  wifl  perceive  that  it  was  but  o»* 
the  earlier  indications  of  lurking  insanity. — Edit. 

•  Calais.        t  In  particulars,  their  total  snm,  to  my  remembrance,  not  belDg  ^  "P* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  IX.      497 


BOOK  IX. 

CONTAINING    THE    BEIGN    OF    QUEEN    ELIZABETH. 

151— .153.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^The  short  reigns  of  king  Edward  VI. 
and  queen  Mary  being  briefly  passed  over  by  our  author,  he  spends 
the  more  time  in  setting-out  the  affairs  of  the  church  under  queen 
Elizabeth;  not  so  much  because  her  reign  was  long,  but  because  it 
was  a  busy  age,  and  full  of  faction.  To  which  ^stction  how  he  stands 
affected,  he  is  not  coy  to  let  us  see  on  all  occasions,  giving  us  in  the 
very  first  entrance  this  brief  but  notable  essay ;  namely, — 

"  Idolatry  is  not  to  be  permitted  a  moment ;  the  first  minute  is  the 
fittest  to  abolish  it.  All  that  have  power  have  right  to  destroy  it,  by 
that  grand  charter  of  religion  whereby  every  one  is  bound  to  advance 
God's  glory.  And  if  sovereigns  forget,  no  reason  but  subjects  should 
remember  their  duty."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  pp.  438,  439.)  Our  author 
speaks  this  in  behalf  of  some  forward  spirits,  who,  not  enduring  ''  the 
laziness  of  authority  "  in  order  to  the  great  work  of  reformation,  "  fell 
beforehand  to  the  beating-down  of  superstitious  pictures  and  images." 
And  though  some  others  condemned  their  indiscretion  herein,  yet  our 
author  will  not,  but  rather  gives  these  reasons  for  their  justification : 
1.  That  the  popish  religion  is  idolatry.  2.  That  idolatry  is  to  be 
destroyed  by  all  that  have  power  to  do  it.  3.  (Which  is  indeed  the 
main,)  That  ''  if  the  sovereigns  do  forget,  there  is  no  reason  but  sub- 
jects should  remember  their  duty."  This  being  our  author  s  master- 
piece, and  a  fair  groundwork  for  the  seditious  and  rebellious  for  the 
times  ensuing,  I  shall  spend  a  little  the  more  time  in  the  examination 
of  the  propositions,  as  before  we  had  them.     And^ 

1.  It  will  be  hard  for  our  authoi;  to  prove  that  the  Romish  religion  is 
idolatry;  though  possible  it  is,  that  some  of  the  members  of  that 
church  may  be  proved  idolaters.  I  know  well  what  great  pains  Dr. 
Reynolds  took  in  his  laborious  work  entituled,  De  Idololatrid  Ecclesice 
Romance  ;  and  I  know  too  that  many  very  learned  and  moderate  men 
were  not  thoroughly  satisfied  in  his  proofs  and  arguments.  That  they 
are  worshippers  of  images,  as  themselves  deny  not,  so  no  body  but 
themselves  can  approve  them  in  it.  But  there  is  a  very  wide  differ- 
ence betwixt  an  image  and  an  idol,  betwixt  the  old  idolaters  in  the 
^tate  of  Heathenism,  and  those  which  give  religious  worship  unto 
im^es  in  some  parts  of  Christendom.  And  this  our  author,  being 
^ell  studied  in  antiquity,  and  not  a  stranger  to  the  controversies  of  the 
presefnt  times,  cannot  choose  but  know;  though  zeal  to  "the  good 
cause,"  and  the  desire  of  being  constant  to  himself,  drew  this  passage 
from  him.  The  Chiistian  faith  delivered  in  the  holy  Gospels  succec|de4 
<>^er  the  greo^test  part  of  the  then  ki^own  world,  in  the  place  of  that 
idolatrous  w<»«hip,  which  like  a  leprosy  had  generally  overspread  the 

K    K 


Digitized  by 


Google 


496  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  It. 

whole  face  thereof.  And  therefore  that  the  whole  mass  of  WickMes 
heterodoxies  might  he  christased  hj  the  aame  of  ^^  Gospel,"  our  author 
thinks  it  necessary  that  the  popish  mass,  and  the  rest  of  the  super- 
stitions of  that  church,  should  he  called  idolatry. 

2.  That  idolatry  is  to  he  destroyed  hj  all  them  that  have  power  to 
do  it,  I  shall  easily  grant.     But  then  it  must  he  imderstood  of  a  lawful 
power,  and  not  permitted  to  the  liherty  of  unlawful  Tiolence.    Id 
possumuiy  qiwd  jure  possutnuSy  was  the  rule  of  oldj  and  it  held  good 
in  an  attempts  for  reformation  in  the  elder  tim^s.     For  when  tke 
fehric  of  the  Jewish  church  was  out  of  order,  and  the  w^ole  wwship 
of  the  Lord  either  defiled  with  superstitions,  or  intermi0gt«d  with 
idolatries,  as  it  was  too  often ;  did  not  God's  serv^its  tarry  and  await 
his  leisure,  till  those  who  were  supreme  hoth  in  place  and  power  were 
hy  him  prompted  and  inflamed  to  a  reformation  ?     How  many  years 
had  that  whole  people  madfe  an  idol  of  the  hrasen  serpent,  and  hurat 
incense  to  it,  hefore  it  was  defaced  hy  king  Hezekiah  ?     How  many 
more  might  it  hare  longer  stood  undefaced,  untouched  hj  aay  of  the 
common  people,  had  not  the  king  given  order  to  demolish  it  ?    How 
many  years  had  the  seduced  Israelites  adored  hefore  the  altar  ni 
Bethel,  hefore  it  was  hewn  down  and  cut  in  pieces  hy  the  good  king 
Josiah  ?     And  yet  it  cannot  he  denied  hut  that  it  was  a*  much  in  tJ^ 
power  of  the  Jews  to  destroy  that  idd,  and  of  the  honest  and  religious 
Israelites  to  hreak  down  that  altar ;  as  it  either  was,  or  could  be,  in  the 
power  of  our  English  zesdots  to  heat  down  superstitious  pictures  and 
images,  had  they  heen  so  minded.     Solomon,  in  the  hook  of  CWticles, 
compares  ihe  church  unto  an  army,  acies  castrerum  ordinata^  as  iktt 
Vulgar  hath  it,  "  an  ^rmy  terrible  with  hfflmers,"  as  our  English  reads 
it.     A  powerful  body,  out  of  doubt,  able,  which  way  soewr  it  moTes, 
to  waste  and  destroy  the  country,  to  bum  and  sack  the  villages  throi^ 
which  it  passeth.     And,  questionless,  too  many  of  the  soMiers^  know- 
ing th«r  own  power,  would  be  aptr  to  do  it,  if  not  restmined  by  the 
authority  of  their  commanders  and  Hie  laws  of  trar.     Ha  ie  ducum 
ttutharitaSy  sic  rigor  dtsctplince  kabet,  as  we  find  in  Tacitujs.*     And 
if  those  be  not  kept  as  they  ought  to  be,  eonfusi  equites  peditxgque  in 
exitium  ruunt ;  **  the  whole  runs  on  to  a  swift  destruction."    Thus  is 
it  also  in  the  church  with    the  camp  of  (hi^ :    if  there    be  no 
subordination  in  it,  if  every  one  might  do  what  he    list  himself, 
and  mske  such  uses  of  that  power  and  opportunity  as  he  tiiinks 
are  put  into  his  hands,  what  a  confusion  would  ^nsue !  how  speedy 
a  calamity  ^ust  needs  &11  upon  it !    Courage  land  aeid  do  never 
show  more  amiably  in   inferior  powers,  than  when  liMiy  ai«  sub- 
ordinate to  good    directions,   especially  when  they  take  directions 
from  the  right  hand,  ft'om  the  supreme  magistrate,  not  from  the 
interest  and  passion  of  their  fellow-subjects.     It  is  the  priaiee's  c^lce 
to  command,  and  theirs  to  execute.     TFith  which  wise  caution  the 
emperor  Otho  once  repressed  the  too  jgi^sit  forwardness  of  hss  soldiers, 

•  Taciti  HUtoria,  1.  i. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH- HISTORY,  BOOK  IX.      499 

when  b9  Amnd  iheflt  i^  enough  to  znake  uu  of  their  power  in  a 
matter  not  ^JxmmMei  by  him:  Vobis  4irma  et  animus^  mihi  xroit- 
silhtm  et  mriutU  wHrm  regimen  reUnquUe^  as  bi«  words  there  are.* 
He  wat^ga/imA^  flie&  jisty,  and  his  own  authority,  allows  them  to  have 
p«wer  and  will,  hut  regulaies  and  restrains  them  both  to  his  own  com- 
mand. So  that  whether  we  behold  the  Church  in  its  own  condition, 
proceeding  by  the  warrant  and  examples  of  holy  Scripture,  or  in 
resemUaaee  to  an  army,  (as  compared  by  Solomon,)  there  will  b^ 
Qothuag  left  to  the  power  of  the  people  either  in  way  of  reformation  or 
executiMi,  till  they  be  Tested  and  intrusted  with  some  lawful  power 
derived  from  him  whom  God  hath  placed  in  authority  over  them. 
And  therefore  tiiough  idolatry  be  io  be  destroyed,  and  to  be  destroyed 
bj  all  which  haTe  power  to  do  it,  yet  must  all  those  be  furnished  with 
a  lawful  power,  or  otherwise  stand  guilty  of  as  high  a  crime  as  that 
Tvhich  they  so  zealously  endeavour  to  condemn  in  others. 

3.  But  our  aulhor  is  not  of  this  mind ;  and  therefore  adds,  That 
'^  if  the  sovereign  do  forget,  the  subjects  should  remember  their  duty." 
A  lesson  which  he  never  learned  in  the  book  of  God«  Foi;,  besidiis 
the  examples  which  we  have  in  demolishing  the  barasen  serpent  and 
the  altar  of  Bethel,  not  acted  by  the  power  of  the  people^  but  the  eom- 
maud  of  the  prince ;  I  would  fain  know  where  we  shall  find,  in  the 
whole  course  and  current  of  the  holy  Scriptures,  that  the  common 
people,  in  and  by  their  own  authority^  removed  the  high  places,  and 
destroyed  the  imag^  or  cut  down  the  groYes,-^those  excellent  instru- 
ments of  superstition  and  idolatry ;  or  that  they  did  attempt  any  such 
thing  tiU  warranted  and  commissionated  by  the  supreme  powers. 
Where  shall  we  find  that  any  of  the  '*  seven  thousand  persons  which 
bad  not  bowed  the  knee  to  Baal,"  did  ever  go  about  to  destroy  that 
idol  ?  Or  that  Elijah  or  EUaha  {two  men  as  extraordinary  for  their 
caUing  as  their  zeal  and  courage)  did  excite  them  to  it  ?  Where  shall 
we  find  the  primitive  Christians,  when  living  under  the  command  of 
Heatheniah  emporors,  busied  in  destroymg  idols,  or  de&cing  the  temples 
of  those  gods  whom  the  Pagans  worshipped  ?  though  grown  in  those 
times  to  such  infinite  multitudes,  Ihat  "  they  fiUed  ^1  places  of  the 
empire,  et  vestra  omnia  mpleviimusy  cities,  isles,  castles,  boroughs, 
your  places  of  assembly,  cwnps,  tribes,  palaces,  yea,  the  very  senate 
aad  commou  Ibrum,"  as  T^tullian  pleads  it.  No  other  doctrine 
preadied  or  heard  of  till  either  ^e  iww  Gospel  <rf  Wickliffe,  or  the 
new  lights  shilling  from  Geneva,  gave  bc^ginning  to  it :  when  the 
Geneviafis  were  resodved  on  a  Reformation,  a»d  could  uot  get  the  con- 
sent oi  tbtfir  b»hop,  who  was  alsp  their  immediate  prince,  they 
resolved  to  take  the  work  into  their  own  hands,  and  pnxseed  without 
^m.  And  that  the  presence  of  their  bishop  might  not  be  a  hinder- 
aace  unto  their  designs,  they  rased  a  tumult,  put  themselves  into  a 
posture  of  war,  and  thereby  force  him  and  his  clergy  to  forsake  the 
city.  And  this  being  done,  they  did  not  only  order  matters  of  religion 
•  Taciti  Bi^oriay  h  i. 

2  K  2 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


500  APPKAX.OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II.  ' 

as  thej  pleased  themselves,  but  took  the  soTereignty  of  the  city  into 
their  own  hands,  '^  changing  the  goremment  thereof  to  the  form  of  a 
commonwealth."  Eo  ejecta^  Genevates  monanrchiam  in  popdarm 
staium  cofnmutaruni^  as  Calyin  hath  it  in  his  epistle  nnto  Caidinal 
Sadolet.  The  practice  of  these  men,  drawn  afterwards  into  example 
hj  Knox,  and  others,  became  at  last  to  be  the  standing  mle  and  menr 
sure  of  all  Refoimations.  For  when  the  king  and  queen  of  Scots 
refused  to  ratify  two  Acts  which  were  sent  unto  them  concerning  the 
abolishing  of  die  mass,  and  the  pope's  supremacy,  Knox,  Winram, 
and  the  rest  of  that  gang,  without  more  ado  devised  and  set  up  a  new 
form  of  discipline,  engrossing  that  power  unto  the  kirk,  whicli  for- 
merly had  been  usurped  by  the  popes  of  Rome.  ("  Hist,  of  Queen 
Mary,"  fol.  25.)  -Afterwards  when  the  queen  was  returned  into  Scot- 
land, and  that  some  of  their  importunate  petitions  were  neglected  by 
her,  it  was  concluded  by  the  ministers  in  as  plain  terms  as  might  be, 
that  "  if  the  queen  will  not,  then  we  must"  (Idem^  fol.  33.) 

According  to  this  rule  the  Netherlands  proceeded  also,  not  only 
driving  on  the  design  which  they  had  in  hand,  (as  the  French 
Hugonots  also  did,)  without  the  king's  authority,  but  against  it  also. 
Finally,  from  a  matter  practical,  it  came  at  last  to  be  delivered  for  a 
point  of  doctrine,  that  if  the  prince  or  supreme  magistrate  did  not 
reform  the  church,  then  the  people  might.  For  this  I  find  in  Clesse- 
lius,  one  of  the  Contra^Remomtrants  of  Rotterdam.  "  If,"  saith  he, 
"  the  prince  and  clergy  do  neglect  their  duties  in  the  reforming  of  the 
church,  necesse  est  turn  id  facere  plebeios  Israelitas,  that  then  it  doth 
belong  to  the  common  people."  And  it  is  with  a  necesse  too,  if  yon 
mark  it  well ;  they  might  not  only  do  it,  but  they  must  be  doing: 
•*  Not  in  the  way  of  mediation  or  petition,"  by  which  the  dignity  of 
the  magistrate  might  be  preserved,  "  but  by  force  and  violence,  W 
ad  sanguinem  usque  pro  eo  pugnent,  even  to  the  shedding  of  their 
own  blood,  and  their  brethren's  too."  Our  author  preacheth  the  same 
doctrine ;  whether  by  way  of  application  or  instruction,  it  comes  all  to 
one;  for,  qui  parentes  laudat  Jilios  provocate  as  Lactantius  has  it: 
"  Posterity  is  too  soon  taught  to  follow  the  ill  examples  of  their  prede- 
cessors." And  though  he  press  it  not  so  home  as  Clesselius  did,  yet, 
when  the  gap  is  once  set  open,  and  the  hedge  of  authority  torn  down, 
bloodshed  and  war,  and  other  acts  of  open  violence,  will  come  m  o 
course.  So  that  we  may  affirm  of  this  dangerous  doctrine,  as  the 
Sorbonnists  once  did  of  the  Jesuits:  viz,^  Videtur  in  negdi^ofi^ 
periculosa^  pacts  ecclesice  periurhativa^  ei  magis  ad  destruction^ 
qudm  ad  cedificationem.  But  I  have  stayed  too  long  upon  these  nw* 
notes :  I  now  proceed  unto  the  rest. 

Fuller. — The  Animadvertor  hath  dealt  most  unfairly  with  me 
in  citing  by  the  halves  what  I  have  written,  and  leaving  out  vh« 
immediately  followed,  and  what  he  ought  to  have  inserted  i 
namely, — 

For  afler  I    had.  presented   the  judgment  of  these  rigid  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  IX.      501 

violent  Hotspurs,  I  subjoined  as  foUoweth,  in  confutation  of  their 
extravagancies : — 

^^  But  others  condemned  their  indiscretion  herein ;  for  though 
they  might  reform  the  private  persons  and  femilies,  and  refrain  to 
communicate  in  any  outward  act  contrary  to  Code's  word ;  yet  public 
reformation  belonged  to  the  magistrate ;  and  a  good  deed  was  by 
them  ill  done,  for  want  of  a  calling  to  do  it." 

I  appeal  to  such  who  knew  me  in  the  University,  to  those  that 
have  heard  my  many  sermons  on  this  subject  in  London  and  else- 
where, but  especially  to  my  book  called  "  Truth  maintained,"  made 
against  Mr.  Saltmarsh;  wherein  I  have  heartily,  (to  place  that 
first,)  largely,  and,  to  my  power,  strongly  vindicated :  Non  licet 
populo^  renuente  moffistratUf  reformationem  moliri.  Our  author 
proceeds : — 

154,  Db.  Heylin.— "This  Parliament  being  very  active  in  matters 
of  religion,  the  Convocation  (younger  brother  thereunto)  was  little 
employed,  and  less  regarded."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  443.)     Our  author 
follows  his  design  of  putting  matters  of  religion  into  the  power  of  Par- 
liaments, though  he  hath  chosen  a  very  ill  medium  to  conclude  the 
point.    This  Parliament,  as  active  as  he  seems  to  make  it,  troubled 
itself  so  little  with  matters  of  religion,  that,  had  it  done  less,  it  had 
done  just  nothing.     All  that  it  did,  was  the  repealing  of  some  Acts 
made  in  the  time  of  queen  Mary,  and  settling  matters  in  the  same 
state  in  which  she  found  them  at  her  first  coming  to  the  crown.     The 
Common-Prayer  Book,  being  reviewed  and  fitted  to  the  use  of  the 
church  by  some  godly  men,  appointed  by  the  queen  alone,  received  no 
other  confirmation  in  this  present  Parliament,  than  what  it  had  before 
in  the  last  years  of  king  Edward.     The  supremacy  was  again  restored, 
as  it  had  been  formerly ;  the  title  of  ''  supreme  head,"  which  seemed 
offensive  unto  many  of  both  religions,  being  changed  into  that  of 
"  supreme  governor ;"  nothing  in  all  this  done  de  novo^  which  could 
entitle  this  Parliament  to  such  activity  in  matters  of  religion,  but  that 
our  author  had  a  mind  to  undervalue  the  Convocation,  as  being  "  little 
employed,  and  less  regarded."     I  grant,  indeed,  that  the  Convocation 
of  that  year  did  only  meet  for  form's  sake,  without  acting  any  thing ; 
and  there  was  very  good  reason  for  it.    The  bishops  at  that  time  were 
so  tenaciously  addicted  to  the  church  of  Bome^  that  they  chose  all 
(except  Anthony  Elitchen  of  Landaff)  rather  to  lose  their  bishoprics 
than  take  the  oath  of  supremacy.     So  that  there  was  little  or  no  hope 
of  doing  any  thing  in  Convocation  to  the  queen's  content,  in  order  to 
the  reformation  of  religion,  which  was  then  designed,  had  they  been 
suffered  to  debate,  treat,  and  conclude  of  such  particulars  as  had  rela* 
tion  thereunto.    But  we  shall  see,  when  things  are  somewhat  better 
settled,  that  the  activity  of  the  next  Convocation  will  make  amends 
for  the  silence  and  unsignificancy  of  this. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


532  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  fl. 

FuLLBB. — ^  Yea,  Ood  bath  done  great  thingB  for  bs  akeady, 
whereof  we  rejoice.''  And  although  the  Animadvertor  la  pleased 
to  saj,  That  '^  if  this  Parliament  had  dofie  le«^  it  had  done  just 
nothing;'"  these  trulj  were  magnolia^  so  far  as  the  word  iff  appli- 
cable to  huikiaft  performances. 

155.  Dr.  Hetlin. — In  the  mean  time,  I  would  £ua  know  our 
authoi^s  reason,  why,  speaking  of  the  Convocation  and  the  Padiament 
in  the  notion  of  twins,  the  ConTocation  must  be  made  ^  the  youngei 
brother."  Assuredly,  there  had  been  Conyocatidiis  in  the  church  of 
England  some  hundreds  of  years  before  the  name  of  PELrliament  had 
been  ever  heard  of;  which  he  that  lists  to  read  the  Collection  of 
Councils  published  by  that  learned  and  industrious  gentlexnaa,  sir 
Heniy  8pelman,  camtot  but  perceiye. 

Fuller . — I  confess  Conyocations,  in  their  general  notiorr,  more 
ancient,  and  regular,  and  completely  constituted  than  Parliaments. 
Yet  of  these  twins,  I  called  the  Convocation  "  the  younger  brother'' 
properly  enough  : 

First.  Because  modem  Convocations,  as  modelled  since  the  sub- 
mission of  the  clergy  to  Henry  VIII.  are  many  years  junior  to 
Parliaments. 

Secondly.  The  Convocations  always  began  the  day  after  the 
Parliament,  the  archbishops  and  bishc^s  always  attending  the  king 
the  first  day  in  Parliament. 

Lastly.  The  Parliament  hath  made  a  "younger  brother'*  of  the 
Convocation :  and,  there  being  a  priority  in  power,,  he  in  efi^t  is 
the  heir  and  elder  brother  who  confineth  the  other  to  a  poor  pittance 
and  smaH  p(»ti<Em,  as  our  age  can  well  remember.  Our  author  pro- 
ceeds : — 

16^—158.  DiL  Hbyun.— '^^'nLijBi  year  the  arpire  of  Paul's  ateeple, 
covered  with  lead,  strangely  fell  on  fire."*  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  467-) 
More  modestly  in  this  than  when  he  ftmierly  ascribes  the  bundng  of 
some  great  abbeys  to  lightning  fiom  heatien.  And  so  this  steeple 
was  both  reported  and  believed  to  be  fired  also;  it  being  an  ordinary 
thing  in  our  common  almanacs,  tiH  these  latfer  times,  to  coimt  the 
time  (among  the  other  epochs  of  computation)  from  the  year  that  St. 
PauFs.  steeple  was  fired  with  lightning.  But  afterwards  it  was 
acknowledged  (as  out  author  fruly  notes)  to  be  done  "  by  the  negU. 
gence  of  a  plumber,  carelesafy  leaving  hsrcoaEs  therein  z"  since  which 
acknowledgment,  we  find  no  mention  of  this  accident  in  our  yearly 
almanacs.  But  whereas  our  author  finds  no  other  benefectors  finr  the 
repairing  of  this  grdat  ruin,  but  the  queen's  bounty,  and  the  clergy's 
benevolence,  I  must  needs  tell  him  tl«.t  these  were  only  accessories  to 
the  principal  chasTge.  The  greatest  p»-t  hereof,  or,  to  say  better,  the 
whole  work  was  by  the  queen  imposed  on  the  city  of  London,  it  being 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  VBE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  IX.     503 

af&rmed  hj  John  Stow,  that  ^' after  this  mischaiice  the  queen's 
majesty  directed  her  letters  to  the  major,  willing  him  to  take  order 
for  the  speedj  repairing  of  the  same."  And,  in  pursuance  of  that 
order,  (besides  what  issued  from  the  public  stock  in  the  Chamber  of 
London,)  ^^  the  citizens  gave  first  a  great  beneyolence,  and  after  that 
three-fifteens  to  be  speedily  paid."*  What  the  queen  did  in  the  way 
of  furtherance,  or  the  clergy  of  the  proyince  of  Canterbury  in  the  way 
of  help,  is  to  be  looked  upon  as  their  free  yoluntary  act,  no  otherwise 
obliged  thereto,  but  as  the  public  honour  of  the  church  and  state  did 
inyite  them  to  it  The  mayor  and  city  were  the  parties  upon  whom 
the  command  was  lidd,  as  most  concerned  in  the  repair  of  their  own 
cathedral.  Which  I  thought  good  to  put  our  author  in  mind  of  as  a 
fault  of  omission  only,  leaving  such  use  as  may  be  made  of  the  obser- 
vation to  the  care  of  others. 

'^Here  I  would  &in  be  informed,  by  some  learned  men  in  the  law, 
ivhat  needed  the  restoring  of  those  children  whose  father  was  con- 
demned and  died  only  for  heresy,  which  is  conceiyed  a  personal  crime, 
and  not  tainting  the  blood?*  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  468.)     The  Par- 
liament this  year  had  passed  an  Act  for  the  Restitution  in  blood  of  the 
children  of  Thomas  Cranmer,   late  archbishop   of  Canterbury;  for 
which  our  author,  as  it  seems,  can  see  no  reason,  in  regard  he  was 
"condemned    and    died  only  for    heresy.     For   though,"  saith  he, 
''  this  archbishop  was  first  accused  of  high  treason,  yet  it  afterward 
was  waved,  and  he  tried  upon  heretical  opinions."     But  in  this  our 
author  is  mistaken.     For,  thoagh  Cranmer  was  condemned  and  died 
for  heresy,  yet  he  was  not  condemned  for  that  only;  nor  was  the 
accusation  for  treason  waved,  as  he  saith  it  was,  but  the  conviction  of 
him  as  an  heretic  superadded  to  it.     Being  accused  of  high  treason  for 
suhscribiiig  (though  unwiUii^ly)  to  tiie  proclamation  of  die  lady  Jane, 
he  was  committed  to  the  Tower  on  the  15th  of  September,  and  on  the 
13th  of  November  following  arraigned  at  the  Guildhall  in  London, 
and  there  eon^oted  and  condemned,  together  with  the  said  lady  Jane, 
the  lord  Guilford  Dudley  her  husband,  and  the  lord  Ambrose  Dudley 
her  husband's  brother.t     Of  which  four  the  lady  Jane  and  her  husband 
only  suffered  death  on  that  condemnation;  the  lord  Ambrose  Dudley 
being  reprieved  for  a  better  fortune,  and  the  archbishop  reserved  for  a 
more  cruel  death.     For  the  queen,  finding  it  more  satisfactory  to  the 
Court  of  Rome  to  have  him  burnt  for  an  heretie  than  hanged  for  a 
traitor,  and  being  implacably  bent  against  him  for  his  activeness  in  the 
^voroe,  thought  good  to  wave  her  first  proceeding,  and  to  have  him 
put  to  death  for  heresy.     But  the  attainder  holding  still  good  al  the 
Common  Law,  there  was  great  teasoii  why  hid  children  should  desire  • 
A  restitution  in  blood,  not  otherwise  to  be  obtained  but  by  Act  of  Par- 
hament.    And  so,  without  troubling  "  the  learned  in  the  law  *  for  our 
information,  I  hope  our  author  vnll  be  satisfied,  and  save  his  fee  for 
<^er  fiftore  necessary  uses. 

•  Stow'8  **  Survey  of  London,"  p.  623.  t  Stow's  "  Annals,"  fol.  617. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


504  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  11. 

Fuller. — Non  ett  tanti  all  this  note.  The  queen  and  clergy 
are  only  mentioned  bj  way  of  eminence^  not  exclusion  of  others. 

The  Animadvertor  commonly  layeth  it  to  my  charge,  that  in  my 
writing  I  am  injurious  to  the  church  and  clergy ;  and  now  he  is 
offended  with  me  for  giving  them  too  much  honour. 

Sure  I  am,  Mr.  Camden,*  speaking  of  the  repairing  of  St.  Paul's 
on  this  occasion,  ascribes  it  "  to  the  great  bounty  of  the  queen," 
and  money  gathered  of  the  churchmen  and  others  ;  where  his  par- 
ticular nomination  only  of  the  queen  and  churchmen,  making  them 
paramount  bene&ctors.     Our  author  proceeds  : — 

159.  Dr.  Heylin. — "In  the  Convocation  now  sitting,  the  nine- 
and-thirty  Articles  were  composed,  agreeing  for  the  main  with  those 
set  forth  in  the  reign  of  king  Edward  VI.  though  in  some  particulars 
allowing  more  liberty  to  dissenting  judgments."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p. 
468.)  This  is  the  active  Convocation  which  before  I  spake  of,  not 
settling  matters  of  religion  in  the  same  estate  in  which  they  were  left 
by  king  Edward ;  but  altering  some  Articles,  expunging  others,  adding 
some  de  novo^  and  fitting  the  whole  body  of  them  unto  edification ; 
not  leaving  any  "  liberty  to  dissenting  judgments,'*  as  our  author  would 
have  it,  but  binding  men  unto  the  literal  and  grammatical  sense. 

Fuller. — But  "  the  literal  and  grammatical  sense  **'  is  worded 
in  so  favourable  and  receptive  terms,  that  two  opposite  parties, 
both  well  skilled  in  grammar,  have,  with  great  assurance  of  success, 
pleaded  them  in  their  defence. 

In  such  cases,  when  the  controversy  is  admissive  of  a  latitude,  as 
not  necessary  to  salvation,  the  pious  and  learned  penners  of  the 
Articles,  though  they  did  not  purposely  use  cheverel  expressions, 
(to  afford  shelter  to  equivocation,)  yet  prudently  seeing  that  all 
things  in  the  Articles  were  not  of  equal  concernment,  and  politicly 
foreseeing  men  would  be  divided  and  differ  in  their  judgments 
about  them,  selected  phrases  grammatically  admissive  of  several 
senses,  all  consistent  with  salvation ;  and  would  draw  their  words 
no  closer,  for  fear  of  strangling  tender  consciences.  Hence  is  it 
that  in  the  question,  "  Whether  concupiscence  be  properly  a  sin  in 
the  regenerate  ? ''  both  parties  appeal  unto  the  Article,  equally  per- 
suaded there  to  find  favour  in  their  several  opinions;  as  indeed, 
like  a  well-drawn  picture,  it  seemeth  to  eye  them  both,  and  yet 
frown  on  neither. 

•  And  one  may  read  in  "  the  Works  of  king  James,**'  that  on  this 
account  he  highly  commendeth  the  discretion  and  moderation  of  the 
composers  of  our  Articles. 

160.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^They  had  not  otherwise  attained  to  the  end 

•  In  his  **  Elizabeth,"  anno  1661. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  IX.     605 

fhey  aimed  at,  which  was  ad  tollendam  opinionum  dissensionem^  et 
consensum  in  verd  religione  Jirmandum ;  that  is  to  saj,  '^  to  take 
away  diversity  of  opinions-,  and  to  establish  an  agreement  in  the  true 
religion ; "  which  end  could  never  be  eflFected,  if  men  were  left  unto 
"  the  liberty  (rf  dissenting,"  or  might  have  leave  to  put  their  own  sense 
upon  the  Articles.  But  whereas  our  author  instances  in  the  Article 
'^  of  Christ's  descent  into  heU,"  teUing  us  that  Christ's  preaching  imto 
the  spirits  there  (on  which  the  Article  seemed  to  be  grounded  in  king 
Edward's  book)  was  left  out  in  this ;  and  thereupon  inferreth,  that 
men  are  "  left  unto  a  latitude  concerning  the  cause,  time,  manner  of 
his  descent ; "  I  must  needs  say,  that  he  is  very  much  mistaken.  For, 
First,  the  church  of  England  hath  always  constantly  maintained  a 
local  descent;  though  many  which  would  be  thought  her  children,  the 
better  to  comply  with  Calvin  and  some  other  divines  of  foreign, 
nations,  have  deviated  in  this  point  from  the  sense  of  the  church. 
And,  Secondly,  the  reason  why  this  Convocation  left  out  that  passage 
of  Christ  preaching  to  the  spirits  in  hell,  was  not,  that  men  might  be 
*^  left  unto  a  latitude  concerning  the  cause,  time,  and  manner  of  his 
descent,"  as  our  author  dreams ;  but  because  that  passage  of  St.  Peter, 
being  capable  of  some  other  interpretations,  was  not  conceived  to  be  a 
clear  and  sufficient  evidence  to  prove  the  Article.  For  which  see 
bishop  Biilson's  "  Survey,"  pp.  388,  389. 

Fuller. — I  cannot  fully  concur  with  the  Animadvertor,  "  That 
the  church  of  England  hath  constantly  maintained  a  local  descent,^ 
though  no  man  hath  a  higher  esteem  for  those  worthy  writers  who 
are  of  that  persuasion. 

I  will  confess  this  hitherto  hath  staggered  me;  namely,  St. 
Peter's  application  of  David's  words  to  Christ :  "  Thou  shalt  not 
leave  my  soul  in  hell,"  Acts  ii.  27. 

I  appeal  whether  these  words  import  not  a  favour  (to  all  unpre- 
judiced hearers)  which  God  did  to  his  Son,  bearing  this  natural 
and  unviolated  sense :  "  That  had  God  left  Christ's  soul  in  hell, 
his  soul  had  been  in  a  bad  condition,  as  being  there  in  a  suffering 
capacity ;  but  God's  paternal  affection  to  his  dear  Son  would  not 
leave  his  soul  in  hell,  but  did  rescue  it  thence." 

Now  all  our  protestant  and  especially  English  writers,  who  main- 
tain "a  local  descent,"  do  very  worthily  (in  opposition  to  the 
Romish  error)  defend,  that  Christ  was  then  in  a  good  estate,  yea, 
in  a  triumphing  condition. 

Now,  then,  it  had  been  no  favour,  not  to  leave  his  soul  in  hell ; 
but  a  less  love  unto  him,  to  contract  his  happiness  in  his  triumph. 

I  protest,  that,  in  this  or  any  other  point,  I  am  not  possessed 
with  a  spirit  of  opposition ;  and  when  I  am  herein  satisfied  in  any 
good  degree,  I  shall  become  the  Animadvertor^s  thankful  convert  in 
this  particular.     Our  author  proceeds  . — 


Digitized  by 


Google 


S06  APPSAL  OF  INJURED  INKOCBNCS.  PAST  II. 

161—164.  Dk.  Hktun.— *<  hk  »  woid,  emeaBii^  this  dame,  ifibe* 
tlicr  llie  hubagm  were  finlty  in  their  additioii,  or  their  oppodtes  in 
thdr  fiibCnictioiH  I  leare  to  more  cunniiig  state-arithmeticiflma  to 
dMde.*  (Ch.  Hist.  ToL  iL  p.  472.)  The  daxue  here  ^ekea  of  by  m 
anthoTy  is  the  first  sentence  in  the  twentieth  Article,  entitoled  Be 
EccUtug  Auihoriiatey  where  it  is  said  that  ^^the  church  hath  power  to 
decree  rites  and  ceremonies,  and  anihority  in  controTeraes  of  the 
&ith.*  Whidi  heing  diaiged  upon  the  bishops  as  a  late  addition,  the 
better  to  support  their  power  and  maintain  their  tyranny;  the  late 
archbishop  of  Canterbnxy,  in  his  speech  in  the  Star-Chaunber,  June 
15th,  1637,  made  it  i^pear  that  the  said  danse  was  in  a  printed  Bode 
of  Articles  pobEshed  in  the  year  1563t,  being  bat  Tery  few  montk 
after  they  had  passed  in  the  Conroeation,  which  was  on  the  29tk  of 
January,  1562,  in  the  English  account.  And  more  than  so,  he  ibowed 
unto  the  Lords  a  copy  of  the  twentieth  Artide  exemplified  out  of  the 
records,  and  attested  by  the  hands  of  a  puUic  notary,  in  which  that 
Tery  clause  was  found,  which  had  been  ehaiged  upon  the  bishops  for 
an  innoTation.  Anii  thus  much  I  can  say  of  mine  own  knowledge, 
that,  baring  occasion  to  consult  the  Records  of  Conroeation,  I  found 
this  conirorerted  clause  verbatim  in  these  following  words:  Habd 
eccUsia  rUus  statuendi  juSf  el  in  ^dei  controversiU  authoritatm. 
Which  makes  me  wonder  at  our  author,  that,  baring  access  to  those 
records,  and  making  frequent  use  of  them  in  this  present  History,  he 
should  declare  himself  unable  to  decide  the  doubti  whether  the  addi- 
tion of  this  clause  was  made  by  the  bishops^  or  the  subtraction  of  it 
by  the  opposite  party.  But  "  none  so  blind  as  he  that  will  not  see," 
says  the  good  old  prorerb. 

Bat  our  author  will  not  so  gire  orer.  He  must  first  hare  a  fiing  at 
the  archbishop  of  Canterbury  upon  this  occasion :  In  the  year  1571) 
(the  Puritan  faction  beginning  then  to  grow  rery  strcmg,)  the  Articles 
were  again  printed  both  in  Latin  and  English,  and  this  clause  le& 
out ;  published  according  to  those  copies  in  tiie  *^  Harmony  of  Confes- 
sions" printed  at  Genera,  anno  1612,  and  published  by  the  same  at 
Oxfinrd,  (though  soon  afler  rectified^)  anno  1696.  Kow  the  arch- 
bishop, takii^  notice  of  the  first  alteration,  anno  1571)  declares  in  his 
said  speech,  that  it  was  no  hard  matt^  for  that  opposite  faction  to 
hare  the  Articles  printed  and  this  clause  left  out,  '^  considering  who 
they  were  that  then  goremed  ^businesses  and  rid  the  church  almost  at 
their  pleasure."*  What  says  our  author  to  this  i  Marry,  saith  he,  "  A 
am  not  so  well  skilled  in  historical  horsemanship  as  to  know  whom 
his  Grace  designed  for  the  rider  of  t]ie  church  at  that  time."  (Cb.  Hist, 
rol.  li.  p.  472.)  Strange  that  a  man  t^ho  undertakes  to  write  an 
History  should  profess  himself  ignorant  cf  tie  names  of  those  who 
"goremed  the  business  of  the  times"  he  writes  of.  But  this  is  <m^f 
an  affected  ignorance,  professed  of  purpose  to  pxisserre  the  honour  of 
some  men  whom  he  beholds  as  the  chief  patrons  of  the  I^uiftan  h/(^on^ 

•  Archbtsfaop'fl  Speech,  p.  71. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THB  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  IX.    807 

For,  afterwardfl,  (this  torn-  being  served,)  ke  can  find  o«l  who  they 
were  that  then  ^^goremed  businesses,  and  rid  the  chnrdt  almost  «t 
their  pleasure ;"  telling  us,  that "« the  earl  of  Leioestw  interposed  hiis- 
self  patnm-genemi  to  the  non-sabscriben^  and  that  he  did  it  at  the 
persuasion  of  Roger  lofd  North."  fidem,  vol.  iii.  p.  29.)  Beddes 
which  two,  we  find  sir  Frands  Knollys  lo  be  one  of  those  who  gave 
eotmtenanee  to  tbe^  trduMes  at  Frankfort,  at  such  time  as  the  ihctaoa 
was  there  hottest  against  the  LitHrgj,  and  other  rites  and  ceremonies  of 
the  church  of  England;  f  Idem  ^  rol.il  p.  419;)  who,  being  a  mere  kins- 
man of  the  queen's,  and  a  Priyy  Councillor,  made  use  of  all  advantages 
to  pursue  iha£  project,  which,  being  set  on  foot  beyond  sea,  had  be^i 
driven  on  here;  and  though  Leicester  was  enough  of  himself  to  ride  the 
church  at  his  pleasure,  it  being  fitted  with  such  helps,  (sir  Francis 
Walsiugham  and  many  more  of  that  kind  which  the  times  then  gave 
him,)  they  drove  on  the  fesfer,  till  he  had  almost  plunged  all  la 
remediless  rnin.  But  our  author  hath  not  dime  with  these  Artides 
yet ;  for  he  teOs  us  of  this  clause,  that  it  was 

«^  Omitted  in  the  English  and  Latin  Articles  set  ibrth,  1^1,  when 
they  were  first  ratified  by  Act."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  471.)  Our  author 
doih  so  dream  of  the  power  of  Parliaments  in  matters  of  religion,  that 
he  will  not  suffer  any  Canon  or  Act  of  Convocation  to  be  in  Ibrce,  or 
obligatoiy  to  the  subject,  tUl  e<mfirmed  by  Parliament  But  I  wouhl 
hojk  know  of  hhn  wbere  he  findi  any  Act  of  Parlisinent  (except  it  be 
in  hiB  own  dreams)  to  confirm  ihese  Articles ;  or  l^at  the  Pariiament 
fKf  the  13th  of  the  queen  (being  that  he  speaks  of)  appointed  any 
Committee  for  KeUgion  to  examine  the  orthodoxy  of  tfaiMie  Artidea^ 
and  make  report  unto  the  House.  Ail  that  was  done  was  this,  and  on 
this  occasion  i-'^-Some  ministers  of  the  church  too  stiffly  wedded  to 
their  old  tnump^imus  f^  the  MaS8|  and  some  as  furiously  prosecuting 
their  new  sutnpsimus  of  Inconfbrmity,  it  was  thought  fit  that^  between 
these  contending  parties,  the  doctrine  of  the  church  should  be  kept 
inviolate.  And  thereupon  it  was  enacted^  That  every  person  imder 
the  degree  of  a  Bishop^  which  did  or  should  pretend  to  be  a  priest  or 
minister  of  OocPs  holy  word  and  sacraments  in  the  church  of  England, 
should,  before  Christmas  then  next  following,  in  the  presence  of  his 
diocesan  bishop,  testify  his  assent,  and  subscribe  to  the  said  Articles  of 
the  year  1562.  Secondly.  That,  after  such  snbscribnig  before  the 
bishop,  he  should,  on  some  Sundaty  in  lihe  forenoon  in  the  church  or 
chapel  where  he  served,  in  time  of  divine  service,  read  openly  the  said 
Articles^  on  pain  of  being  d^nived  (tf  aB  his  ecclesiastical  promotioais, 
as  if  he  were  then  naturally  dead.  Thirdly.  That  if  any  ecclesiastical 
person  should  maintaiii  any  doctrine  contrary  to  any  of  the  said  Arti- 
cles, and  being  convented  by  his  bishop,  &c«  should  persist  therein,  it 
should  be  just  cause  to  deprive  such  person  of  his  ecclesiastical  pro- 
motions. Fourthly.  That  all  persons  to  be  admitted  to  any  benefice 
with  cure,  diould  likewise  subscribe  U>  the  said  Artides,  and  publicly 
read  the  same  in  the  open  church  within  two  months  after  their  indue- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


506  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

tioo,  with  declaration  of  their  unfeigned  assent  to  the  same,  on  the 
pain  aforesaid.*  In  all  which  there  was  nothing  done  to  confirm 
these  Articles,  but  only  a  pions  care  expressed  for  reformation  of  such 
disorders  as  were  like  to  rise  amongst  the  ministers  of  the  church,  by 
requiring  their  subscription  and  assent  unto  them  under  such  temporal 
punishments,  which  at  that  time  the  Canons  of  the  church  had  not 
laid  upon  them.  So  that  our  author  rery  well  might  have  spared  this 
flourish,  that  the  obligatoriness  of  these  Articles  as  to  temporal  pun- 
ishments ^  bears  not  date  nine  years  before,  from  their  composition  in 
Conrocation,  but  henceforward  from  their  confirmation  in  Parliament" 
And  here  I  must  craye  leare  to  fetch-in  another  passage  relating  to 
the  Acts  of  this  Conrocation,  in  which  he  telleth  us  that  till  the  year 
1572,  'Uhe  bishops  had  been  more  sparing  in  pressing,  and  others 
more  daring  in  denying,  subscription,  because  the  Canons  made  in  the 
Convocation,  anno  1563,  were  not  for  nine  years  after  confirmed  by 
Act  of  ParUament,"  &c.  (Ch.  Hist.  toI.  ii.  p.  502.)  In  which  our 
author  shows  much  zeal,  and  but  little  knowledge ;  there  being  no 
Canons  made  in  the  Convocation  of  1562,  (1563,  in  our  authors 
reckoning,)  nor  any  thing  at  all  done  in  it  more  than  the  settling  of 
the  Articles,  and  passing  a  Bill  for  the  granting  of  a  subsidy  to  the 
queen,  as  by  the  Records  thereof  may  be  easily  seen.  But  rather  than 
the  Parliament  shall  not  have  the  power  of  confirming  Canons,  our 
author  will  find  out  some  Canons  for  them  to  confirm  which  never 
had  a  being  or  existence  but  in  his  brains  only. 

Fuller.— rTo  this  and  to  what  ensueth  in  two  leaves  following^ 
I  return  no  answer;  not  because  I  am  pinched  therein  with  any 
matter  of  moment,  but  for  these  reasons  following : — 

First.  I  understand,  that  the  Animadvertor^s  stationer  taketh 
exception,  that  I  have  printed  all  his  book ;  which  may  tend  to  his 
detriment.  Now  I  protest,  when  I  first  took  up  this  resolution  to 
present  the  Animadvertor's  whole  cloth,  list,  fag,  and  all,  I  aimed 
not  at  his  damage,  but  my  own  defence  :  nor  can  I  see  how  I  could 
do  otherwise,  seeing  the  plaster  must  be  as  broad  as  the  sore,  the 
tent  as  deep  as  the  wound ;  yea,  I  have  been  informed  by  prime 
stationers,  the  like  hath  formerly  been  done  without  exception 
taken  on  either  side,  in  the  replies  and  rejoinders  betwixt  Dr. 
Whitgift  and  Mr.  Cartwright,  and  many  others.  However,  being 
willing  to  avoid  all  appearance  of  injury,  I  have  lefl  out  some 
observations  which  I  conceived  might  well  be  spared,  as  containing 
no  pungent  matter  against  me.-f* 

Secondly.  I  am  confident,  that  there  needs  no  other  answer  to 

•  13  Elizabeth,  c.  12. 

t  The  parts  of  Heylin's  "  AnimadveTsdons "  'vrhich  were  omitted  by  FuBer,  on 
accoant  of  the  remonBtrance  of  Heylin's  booksellpr,  are  in  this  edition  inserted  entire) 
that  the  reader  may  have,  at  one  view,  the  powerful  reaaoningd  of  theM  two  great 
masters  of  ecclesiastical  history. E Di  T . 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  IX       509 

these  notes,  than  the  distinct  and  serious  perusal  of  my  "  Church- 
History/'  with  the  due  alteration  of  favour  indulged  to  all  writings. 
Lastly.  What  of  moment  in  these  notes  is  omitted  by  me, 
relateth  to  those. two  church-questions  in  law,  which  I  have  formerly 
desired  may  fairly  be  ventilated  betwixt  the  Animadvertor  and  me  : 
and  if  he  be  sensible,  that  any  thing  herein  tendeth  to  his  advan- 
tage, he  may,  and  no  doubt  will,  re-assume  and  enforce  the  same.* 

1(>5.  Db.  HErLiN. — From  the  Articles  our  author  proceeds  unto 
the  Homilies  approved  in  those  Articles ;  and  of  them  he  tells  us, 
that  "  if  they  did  little  good,  they  did  little  harm."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii. 
p.  473.)  With  scorn  and  insolence  enough.  Those  Homilies  were  so 
composed,  as  to  instruct  the  people  in  all  positive  doctrines  necessary 
for  Christian  men  to  know,  with  reference  both  to  faith  and  manners  ; 
and  being  "  penned  in  a  plain  style,"  as  our  author  hath  it,  were  fitter 
for  the  edification  of  the  common  people,  than  either  the  strong  lines 
of  some,  or  the  flashes  of  vain  wit  in  others,  in  these  latter  times. 
And  well  it  had  been  for  the  peace  and  happiness  of  this  church,  if 
they  had  been  more  constantly  read,  and  not  discredited  by  those  men 
who  studied  to  advance  their  own  inventions  above  those  grave  and 
solid  pieces  composed  by  the  joint  counsels' and  co-operations  of  many 
godly,  learned,  and  religious  persons.  But  it  is  well,  howsoever,  that 
by  reading  these  (so  much  vilified)  Homilies,  the  ministers,  though 
"  they  did  little  good,  did  but  little  harm ; "  it  being  to  be  feared  that 
the  predominant  humour  of  sermonizing  hath,  on  the  contrary,  done 
much  harm,  and  but  little  good.  But  our  author  hath  not  yet  done 
with  this  Convocation,  for  so  it  followeth : — 

FuLLEE. — "  With  scorn  and  insolence  !  ^  I  defy  the  words. 
The  Animadvertor  might  have  added  my  words  immediately 
following ;  namely,  "  They  preached  not  strange  doctrines  to  their 
people,  as  too  many  vent  new  darknesses  now-a-days,  intituled  new 
lights."' 

And  well  had  it  been  for  the  peace  and  happiness  of  the  church, 
if  the  Animadvertor  (and  all  of  his  party)  had  had  as  high  an 
esteem  as  the  author  hath  for  the  Homilies ;  if  none  of  them  had 
called  them  "  Homely  Homilies ;''  (as  one  did  ;)  and  if  they  had 
conformed  their  practice  to  the  second  Homily  in  the  second  book, 
and  not  appeared  so  forward  in  countenancing  images  of  God  and 
his  saints  in  churches. 

\m.  Dr.  Hbylin.— "The  English  bishops,  conceiving  themselves 
empowered  by  their  Canons,  began  to  show  their  authority,  in  urging 
the  clergy  of  their  diocess  to  subscribe  to  the  Liturgy,  ceremonies,  and 
discipline  of  the  church  ;  and  such  .as  refused  the  same,  were  branded 

•   Vide  supra,  part  ii.  p.  476. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


5X0  APPEAL  OF  INJURBD  INNOCBNCB.  PART  II. 

wiik  Uie  odkNU  name  of  Puritaas.*  {Ck.  Hist,  vol  u.  f,  474.)  Our 
author  haTing  girea  the  ParUameut  a  power  of  confiming  no  Canons, 
as  hefi>i«  was  showed,  he  brings  the  bishops  acti^  bj  as  weak  audio- 
xit7  in  the  years  1563  and  1564,  there  being  at  that  time  no  Canons 
for  them  to  proceed  upon  for  re<}uiring  their  "  clergy  to  subscribe  to 
the  litnigieSy  ceremonies,  and  discipline  of  the  church;"  and  thttc- 
fore,  if  they  did  any  such  thing,  it  waa  not  as  Aey  were  *•  empowered 
by  their  Canons^''  but  as  ^ey  were  enabled  by  that  authority  which 
WIS  inherent  naturally  in  their  episcopal  office. 

Fuller. — ^I  profess  mpelf  not  to  understand  the  sense  of  the 
Animadvertor,  and  what  he  driveth  at  herein.  And  as  soon  as  I 
shall  understand  him,  I  will  either  fully  concur  with  him,  or  fairly 
dissent  from  him,  rendering  my  reason  for  the  same. 

.  167—171.  Dr.  Hbylin. — But,  whereas  he  tells  us  in  flxe  fonowing 
words,  that  the  name  of  Puritan  in  that  notion  began  this  year, 
namely,  1564;  I  fear  he  hath  anticipated  the  time  a  little;  Gene- 
hrard,  a  right  good  chronologer,  placing  it  {ortos  in  AngUd  Puri- 
tanos)  about  two  years  after,  anno  1566.  And  so  far  I  am  of  our 
author's  mind,  that  "  the  grief  had  not  been  great  if  the  name  had 
ended  that  year,"  upon  condition  that  the  occasion  for  which  it  was 
given  them  had  then  ended  also.  But  when  he  tells  us,  that  the  name 
of  Puritans  was  given  to  ^'  the  opposers  of  the  hierarchy  and  church- 
service,"  and  signifieth  a  Nonconformist ;  as  often  as  \  meet  such 
opposers,  and  such  Nonconformists  in  the  course  of  this  History,  I 
have  warrant  good  enough  to  call  them  by  the  name  of  Puritans.  If 
any  did  abuse  the  names,  as  he  telleth  us  afterwards,  '*  to  asperse  the 
most  orthodox  in  doctrine  and  religious  in  conversation ; "  (Ch.  Hist 
vol.  iii.  p.  306 ;)  they  were  the  more  to  blame ;  let  them  answer  for  it 
But  if  those  "  orthodox  and  religious  **  persons  were  orthodox  only  in 
his  sense,  and  under  the  colour  of  religion  did  secretly  combine  with 
**  those  who  opposed  the  hierarchy  and  the  established  <tf ders  of  the 
church ;  *  it  might  be  a  disgrace,  but  no  wrong  unto  them,  to  be  ealled 
Puritans.  And  if  it  were  extended  further  to  denote  such  men  also, 
as  maintained  any  of  the  private  opinions  smd  doctrines  of  Calvin 
against  the  tendries  of  the  church,  I  see  no  reason,  why  our  author 
should  eomplain  of  it  so  much  as  he  does  in  the  ^ace  albresaid.  The 
practices  of  some  men  are  many  times  doctrines  to  others :  and  the 
Calvinian  doctrines  being  built  upon  Calvin's  practices,  and  those 
abetted  and  confirmed  by  his  following  doctrines ;  the  name  of  Puri- 
tan, though  first  found  out  to  denote  such  as  followed  Calvin,  '^  in  dis- 
senting from  the  hierarchy  in  discipline  and  church-govemmeBt," 
might  not  unfitly  be  applied  to  such  as  maintained  his  doctrines  also. 
But  of  this  argument  enough.  I  shall  add  only,  and  so  proceed  to  other 
businesses,  that  Mr.  Fox  is  brought-in  as  required  to  subscribe  to  the 
Canons  by  archbishop  Parker ;  whereas  there  were  at  that  time  no 
Canons  to  subscribe  unto,  nor  is  it  the  custom  of  the  church  to  require 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVEBSION8  OF  THB  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  IX.      51I 

sabscriptien  unto  CSaiums,  bat  unto  those  only  who  coiuieBted  to  the 
making  of  them. 

'*  John  Felton,  vrho  fastened  the  pope's  Bull  to  the  pakee  of  Lon- 
don, bdng  taken,  and  refusing  to  fly,  was  hanged  on  a  gibbet  before 
the  popes  palaoe."  (Ch.  Hist  toL  ii.  p.  4d5.)  The  Bull  here  men- 
tioned was  that  of  pope  Pius  Y.  for  ezeonununicating  ^ueen  Elizabeth, 
which  this  John  Felton  (a  zealous  papist)  had  hanged  up  at  the  gates 
of  the  bishop  of  London's  house,  that  the  sublets  might  take  notice  of 
it ;  and  for  that  jGftct  was  hanged  near  the  same  place  vhoe  he  had 
offended* 

FuuucK.^— •!  ansira.  First.  Let  the  ABiroadTertor  keep  hie  fears 
for  me  to  himself,  and  not  be  solicitous  in  my  behalf. 

Secondly.  If  the  time  be  anticipated  btU  a  little,,  these  '^neeessary 
Animadversions  ^  needed  not  to  take  notice  thereof. 

Thirdly.  Oenebrard's  placing  the  beginnii^  of  the  name  '*  Puri- 
tan" about  two  years  after ^  intimates  a  latitude  in  his  computation. 

Fourthly.  Genebrard,  anno  1566,  calleth  them  crioe  (but  not 
orientes)  in  Anglid  Puritanoa ;  and  when  I  speak  of  the  begin-   • 
ning  of  the  name,  I  relate  to  it  ri$ing^  not  risen. 

Fifthly.  Genebrard  is  so  disaflTected  to  our  religion,  he  is  not  to 
be  credited ;  taking  all  implicitly  out  of  railing  Saunders.  Witness 
this  eminent  note  amongst  the  rest,  anvio  1570 :  Uncti  in 
Surrid  comitatu  AnplicBi  e  Gahini  scAold  oriuntur ;  qui  docent 
peccare  neminem  nisi  qui  iseritaiem  ab  ifsis  prasdicatam  non 
recipit:  ^The  anointed  scholais  of  Calvin  did  rise  this  year  iii 
Sarrey,  an  Englbh  county ;  who  teadi,  that  erery  man  must  sin 
that  will  not  embrace  their  doctrine  :  ^  all  which  is  a  notonous 
untruth. 

Lastly.  The  Animadvertor  cannot  justly  be  angry  with  me  if  I 
antedated  the  Puritans  by  two  years,  seeing  he  findeth  the  linea- 
ments  of  the  Puritan  platform  in  the  reign  of  king  Henry  VIII. 
twenty  years  at  least  before  my  mention  of  them.* 

172.  Db.  Heylin. — ^But  why  our  author  should  call  the  bishop  of 
London's  house  by  the  name  of  ''  the  pope's  palace,"  I  do  yery  much 
wonder;  unless  it  were  to  hold  conformity  with  the  style  of  Martin 
Mar-Prelate,  and  the  rest  of  that  faction.  Amongst  whom  nothing 
was  more  common  than  to  call  all  bishops  "  petty  popes,"  and  more 
particularly  to  call  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury  "  the  pope  of  Lam  • 
h«th;*  and  the  bishop  of  London,  "pope  of  London."  But  I  hope 
more  charitably  than  so,  being  more  willing  to  impute  it  to  the  fault  of 
the  printers,  than  the  pen  of  our  author.  I  only  add,  that  to  make  even 
^th  this  John  Felton,  (a  zealous  papist,)  another  John  Fehon  of  the 

*  ride  auproy  part  ii.  p.  463. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


512  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

next  age,  a  zealous  Puritan,  committed  that  execrable  muxdei  on  tk 
duke  of  Buckingham. 

FuLLEE. — It  falls  out  happily  for  me,  that  Grindal  was  then 
bishop  of  London ;  one  so  far  from  popery,  that  he  is  beheld  under 
an  opposite  notion.  I  wonder  the  Animadvertor  will  lay  so  much 
weight  on  a  plain  mistake  of  the  press.     Our  author  proceeds  :— 

173.  Dr.  Heylin. — '^  Against  covetous  Conformists  it  was  pro- 
yided,  that  no  spiritual  person,  college,  .or  hospital,  shall  let  lease, 
other  than  for  twenty-one  years,  or  three  lives,"  &c.  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii. 
p.  498.)  No  mention  in  the  Statute  of  "  covetous  Conformists,"  I  am 
sure  of  that ;  and  therefore,  no  provision  to  be  made  against  them :  the 
** covetous  Conformists"  is  our  authors  own.  I  find  indeed,  that 
*^  long  and  unreasonable  leases  had  been  made  by  Colleges,  deans,  and 
chapters,  parsons,  vicars^  and  other  having  spiritual  promotions  y**  which 
being  found  to  be  ^  the  causes  of  dilapidations,  and  the  decay  of  all  spi- 
ritual livings  and  hospitality,  and  the  utter  impoverishing  of  all  succes- 
Bors,  incumbents  in  the  same,"  the  Parliament  thought  it  high  time  to 
provide  against  it.*  In  all  which  bead-roll,  it  were  strange  if  we  should 
find  no  Nonconformists,  who  had  by  this  time  got  a  great  part  of  the 
church-preferments,  and  were  more  likely  to  occasion  those  dilapida- 
tions than  the  regular  and  conformable  clergy ;  these  latter  looking  on 
the  church  with  an  eye  to  succession,  the  former  being  intent  only  on 
the  present  profit.  And  if  we  mark  it  well,  we  shall  find  that  covet- 
ousness  and  Nonconformity  are  so  married  together,  that  it  is  not  easy 
to  divorce  them ;  though  here  the  crime  of  covetousness  be  wrongfiiUy 
charged  on  the  Conformists,  to  make  them  the  more  odious  in  the  eye 
of  the  vulgar  reader.  "  High  royalists  "  in  one  place,  "  covetous  Con- 
formists" in  another,  are  no  good  signs  of  true  affections  to  conformity, 
and  much  less  to  royalty. 

Fuller. — I  say  in  the  same  place,  that  in  tliis  Parliament 
*'  laws  were  enacted  against  papists.  Nonconformists,  and  covetous 
Conformists,  the  acts  therein  appearing  like  poniards  with  three 
edges.''  Conformists  they  must  needs  be,  who  enjoyed  so  great 
church-preferment ;  and  "  covetous  '^  I  may  call  them,  who  made 
so  unreasonable  leases.  But  of  this  I  have  largely  spoken  in  my 
Answer  to  the  Introduction.     Our  author  proceeds  : — 

174.  Dr.  Heylin. — "These  prophesyings  were  founded  on  the 
apostle's  precept :  '  For  ye  may  all  prophesy  one  by  one,  that  all  may 
learn  and  all  be  comforted ;'  but  so  as  to  make  it  out,  they  were  fain 
to  make  use  of  human  prudential  additions."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p*  ^-j 
Not  grounded,  but  pretended  to  be  grounded,  on  those  words  of  St. 
Paul ;  the  prophesying  there  spoken  of  not  being  to  be  drawn  into 
example  in  the  change  of  times,  when  the  effusions  of  the  Spirit  were 


•  13  Elizabeth,  c.  20. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORV,  BOOK  IX.      513 

more  restrained  and  limited  than  they  had  been  formerly.     For  were 
they  grounded  on  that  text,  it  had  been  somewhat  saucily  done,  to 
add  tbeir  own  prudential  additions  to  the  direction  and  dictamen  of 
the  Holy  Spirit :  a  course  much  favoured,  as  it  seems,  by  archbishop 
Orindal,  whose  letter  to  the  queen  is  recommended  to  the  ^'  welcome 
of  the  pious  reader."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  70     But  both  the  queen 
and  her  wise  Council  conceived  otherwise  of  it,  looking  upon  these 
prophesyings  as  likely  to  ''  prove  in  fine  the  bane  of  the  common- 
wealth,"   as  our  author  hath  it.     Nor  did  king  James  conceive  any 
better  of  them,  as  appeareth  by  the  Conference  at  Hampton- Court,  in 
ipvhich  it  was  moved  by  Dr.  Reynolds,  (chief  of  the  millenary  party,) 
*'*'  That  the  clergy  might  have  meetings  once  every  three  weeks,  and 
therein  to  have  prophesying,  according  as  the  reverend  father  arch- 
bishop Grindal  and  other  bishops  desired  of  her  late  majesty.     *  No,' 
said  the  king,  (looking  upon  this  motion  as  a  preamble  to  a  Scottish 
Presbytery,)  '  then  Jack,  and  Tom,  and  Will,  and  Dick,  shall  at  their 
pleasures  censure  me  and  my  Council,  and  all  our  proceedings  :  then 
TVill  shall  stand  up  and  say,  It  must  be  thus:  then  Dick  shall  reply 
and  say,  Nai^,  marry ^  but  we  rvUl  have  it  thus  J  And  therefore  stay,  I 
pray  you,  for  one  seven  years  before  you  demand  that  of  me ;  ai;id 
then  if  you  find  me  pursy  and  fat,  and  my  windpipes  stuffed,  I  will 
perhaps  hearken  to  you :  for  if  that  government  be  once  up,  I  am  sure  I 
shall  be  kept  in  breath ;  then  shall  we  all  of  us  have  work  enough,  both 
our  hands  Ml.'  ***    But  let  king  James  and  queen  Elizabeth  conceive 
what  they  will,  our  author  hath  declared  it  to  be  "  God's  and  the 
church's  cause."  (Idem^  vol.  iii.  p.  18.)     And  being  such,  it  is  enough 
to  make  any  man  confident  in  pleading  for  it,  or  appearing  in  it. 

Fuller.— "  Grounded""  shall  be  altered,  God  willing,  into 
^'pretended  to  be  grounded;^''  and  then  I  hope  no  shadow  of 
offence.    Our  author  proceeds  ;— 

175 — 178.  Dr.  Heylin.—'^  a  loud  Parliament  is  always  attended 
with  a  silent  Convocation,  as  here  it  came  to  pass.  The  activity  of 
the  former  in  church-matters  left  the  latter  nothing  to  do."  (Ch.  Hist, 
vol.  iii.  p.  25.)  A  man  would  think  by  this,  that  the  Parliament  of 
this  year,  being  the  23rd  of  the  queen,  had  done  great  feats  in  matters 
of  religion,  as  making  new  Articles  of  faith,  or  confirming  Canons,  or 
sometfaiog  else  of  like  importance.  But,  for  all  this  great  cty  we  have 
little  wool ;  our  author  taking  notice  of  nothing  else  which  was  done 
this  Parliament,  but  that  it  was  made  treason  for  the  priests  or 
Jesuits  to  seduce  any  of  the  queen's  subjects  to  the  Romish  religion, 
and  for  the  subjects  to  be  reconciled  to  the  church  of  Rome,  with 
other  matters  not  within  the  power  and  cognizance  of  the  Convoca- 
tion. But  he  conceals  another  Statute,  as  necessary  to  the  peace  and  • 
safety  of  the  church  and  state  as  the  other  was ;  by  which  it  w<is 


'  "  Conference,"  p.  80. 
L    L 


Digitized  by 


Google 


514  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.        PART  II. 

enacted,  "  that  if  any  person  or  persons  should  advisedly  devise,  or 
unite,  print,  or  set  forth  any  manner  of  book,  rhyme,  ballad,  letter, 
or  writing,  containing  any  false,  seditious,  and  slanderous  matter,  to 
the  defamation  of  the  queen's  majesty,  or  to  the  encouraging,  stirrisg, 
or  moving  of  any  insurrection  or  rebellion  within  this  realm,  &c.  or 
that  shall  procure,  or  cause  such  book,  rhyme,  ballad,  &e.  to  be  writ- 
ten, printed,  published,  or  set  forth,  &c.  the  offenders  to  suffer  sucli 
pain  of  death  and  forfeiture  as  in  case  of  felony."*  A  Statute  made 
of  purpose  to  restrain  the  insolencies  of  the  Puritan  ^tion,  and  by 
which  many  of  them  were  adjudged  to  death  in  the  times  essuing : 
some  as  the  authors,  and  others  as  the  publishers,  of  seditious  pam- 
phlets. But  being  made  with  limitation  to  the  Hfe  of  the  queen,  it 
expired  with  her ;  and  had  it  been  reriyed  (as  it  nerer  was)  by  either 
of  the  two  last  kings,  might  possibly  have  prerented  those  dreadfol 
mischiefs  which  their  posterity  is  involved  in. 

^^  Sure  I  am  it  is  most  usual  in  the  Court  of  the  Marches,  (Arches 
rather,)  whereof  I  have  the  best  experience."  (Ch.  Hist.  toL  iiL  p.  52.) 
This  is  according  to  the  old  saying,  to  correct  Magnificat.  Assured] j, 
archbishop  Whitgift  knew  better  what  he  was  to  write,  than  to  need 
any  such  critical  emendations.  And  therefore  our  autiior  might  have 
kept  his  "  Arches  "  for  some  public  triumph  after  his  conquest  of  "  the 
covetous  Conformists  and  high  royalists,"  which  before  we  bad.  It 
was  the  Court  of  the  Marches  which  the  bishop  speaks  of,  and  of 
which  he  had  so  good  experience ;  he  being  made  Yice-President  of 
the  Court  of  the  Marches  by  sir  Henry  Sidney,  immediately  on  his 
first  coming  to  the  see  of  Worcester,  as  sir  George  Paul  telleth  us  in 
his  Life. 

*^By  the  changing  of  Edmond  into  John  Cantuab.,  it  plainly 
appears,  that,  as  all  these  letters  were  written  this  year^  so  they  were 
indited  after  the  6th  of  July,  (and  probably  about  Deceooiber,)  when 
bishop  Grindal  deceased."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  59.)  I  grant  it  for  a 
truth,  that  Grindal  died  on  the  6th  of  July ;  and  I  know  it  also  for  a 
truth,  that  Whitgift  was  translated  to  the  see  of  Canterbury  on  the 
23rd  of  September  then  next  following.  But  yet  it  follows  not  there- 
upon, that  all  the  letters  here  spoken  of,  (being  twelve  in.  number,) 
which  are  here  exemplified^  were  written  in  the  compass  of  one  year,  and 
much  less  in  so  narrow  a  time  as  about  December.  Nay,  the  contrary 
hereunto  appears  by  the  letters  themselves.  For  in  one  of  them  writ- 
ten to  the  Lord  Treasurer,  I  find  this  passage,  namely :  "  Your  lordship 
objecteth,  that  it  is  said  I  took  this  course  for  the  better  .maintenance 
of  Iny  book.  My  enemies  say  so,  indeed ;  but  I  trust  my  friends  have 
a  better  opinion  of  me.  What  should  I  look  for  any  confirmation  o{ 
my  book  after  twelve  years,  or  what  should  I  get  thereby  more  thaa 
abready  ?  "  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  56.)  Now  the  book  mentioned  by 
the  bishop  was  that  entituled,  "  The  Defence  of  the  Answer  to  the 

•  33  Elizabeth^  c.  2. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  IX.      515 

Admonition  against  the  Reply  of  T.  C."  printed  at  London,  anno  1574* 
To  which  the  twelve  years  heing  added,  which  we  find  mentioned  in 
tills  letter,  it  most  needs  he  that  this  letter  to  the  Lord  Treasuf^v  was 
written  in  the  year  1586,  and  consequently  not  all  written  in  the  y6ar 
1583,  as  our  author  makes  them.  The  like  might  he  collected  also 
from  some  circumstances  in  the  other  letters,  hut  that  1  hare  more 
necessary  business  to  employ  my  time  on^ 

"  The  severe  enforcing  of  subscription  hereunto,  What  great  disturb- 
ance it  occasioned  in  the  church,  shall  hereafter,  by  God'd  assistance^ 
be  made  to  appear ;  leaving  otheni  to  judge  whether  the  offence  was 
giren  or  taken  thereby."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  68.)  Our  siuthor  tells 
us,  that,  in  the  business  of  church-government,  he  would  "  Ke  at  a 
close  guard,  and  offer  as  little  play  as  might  be,  on  either  side."  (Idem^ 
vol.  iii.  p.  35.)  But,  for  all  that,  he  cannot  but  dedare  himself  for 
the  stronger  party.  He  had  not  else  left  it  as  a  matter  doubtful,  whe- 
ther the  disturbances  which  ensued  on  the  archbishop's  enforcing  of 
subscription,  and  the  scandal  which  did  thence  arise,  were  to  be 
imputed  to  the  im^oser,  who  had  authority  on  his  side,  (as  himself 
confesseth,)  or  the  refusers,  carried  on  by  self-ends  and  tuxtractable 
obstinacy.  As  for  the  Articles  to  which  subscriptions  were  required, 
they  were  these  that  follow ;  uamely,- — 

1.  That  the  queen  only  had  supreme  authority  ov^r  all  persons  bom 
within  her  dominion. 

2.  That  the  Book  of  Common-Prayer  and  ordination  of  bishops, 
priests,  and  deacons,  containeth  nothing  contrary  to  the  word  of  QtoA. 

3.  That  the  Articles  of  Religion  agreed  on  in  the  year  1562,  and 
published  By  the  queen  s  authority,  were  consonant  to  the  word  of  God. 

All  which,  being  so  expressly  built  on  the  laws  of  the  realm,  must 
needs  lay  the  scandal  at  their  doors  who  refused  subscription,  and  not 
at  his  who  did  require  it.  "  Buf  love  will  creep,"  they  say,  "  where  it 
cannot  go."  And  do  our  author  what  he  can,  he  must  discover  his 
affection  to  "  the  holy  cause  "  upon  all  occasions.  No  where  more 
manifestly  than  where  he  telleth  us, — 

Fuller. — It  lieth  not  in  the  power  of  Parliament  to  make 
"  new  articles  of  faith  ;*"  nor  did  they  ever  pretend  unto  it.  Nor 
lieth  it  ia  the  power  of  the  church  to  make  any  "new  articles.*" 
Canons  they  may  make,  for  the  discipline ;  and  may  declare  and 
publish  "articles  of  faith."  But  God  alone  in  Scripture  hath  made 
them  ;  to  which  man,  under  a  heavy  Curse,  may  make  no  addition. 
Our  author  proceeds  : — 

179.  Dr.  Heylin.— ;."  That  since  the  High  Commission,  and  this 
oath,"  (it  is  that  ex  officio  which  he  meaneth,)  "  were  taken  away  by 
the  Act  of  Parliament,  it  is  to  be  hoped,  that  (if  such  swearing  were 
so  great  a  grievance)  nihil  analoguniy  '  nothing  like  unto  it  *  (which 
may  amount  to  as  much)  shall  hereafter  be  substituted  in  the  room 
thereof.*'  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  90.)     What  could  be  said  more  plain 

2  L  2 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ  l€ 


516  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

to  testify  bis  disaffectioDS  one  way,  and  his  zeal  another  ?  The  High 
Commission  and  the  oath  reproached  as  grievances,  because  the  great- 
est curbs  of  the  Puritan  party,  and  the  strongest  bulwarks  of  the 
church ;  a  congratulation  to  the  times  for  abolishing  both,  though  as 
jet  I  find  no  Act  of  Parliament  against  the  oath,  except  it  be  bj  con- 
sequence and  illation  only ;  and  finally  a  hope  expressed  that  the 
church  nerer  shall  reyert  to  her  former  power  in  substituting  any  like 
thing  in  the  place  thereof,  by  which  the  good  people  of  the  land  may 
be  stopped  in  their  way  to  the  fifth  monarchy  so  much  sought  after. 
And  yet  this  does  not  speak  so  plain  as  the  following  passage. 

Fuller. — God  restore  the  church  in  his  good  time  to  her  just 
rigbts,  and  give  her  wisdom  moderately  to  use  them  ! 

I  am  for  no  fifth-monarchy  or  first-anarchy  men  ;  but  desire  from 
my  heart,  that  no  such  analogical  oath  may  be  offered  to  me ;  and 
let  the  Animadvertor,  if  desirous  thereof,  have  it  to  himself,  and 
much  good  may  it  do  him  !     Our  author  proceeds  :— 

180.  Dr.  Heylin. — "  Wits  will  be  working ;  and  such  as  have  a 
satirical  rein  cannot  better  rent  it  than  in  lading  of  sin."  (Ch.  Hist. 
vol.  iii.  p.  98.)  This  spoken  in  defence  of  those  scurrilous  libels 
which  Job  Throgmorton,  Penry,  Fenner,  and  the  rest  of  the  Puritan 
rabble  published  in  print  against  the  bishops,  anno  1588,  thereby 
to  render  them  ridiculous  both  abroad  and  at  home.  The  queen 
being  first  exclaimed  against,  and  her  honourable  Council  scandalously 
censured  for  opposing  the  Gospel,  they  fall  more  foully  on  the  bishops, 
crying  them  down  as  "  antichristian,  petty  popes,  bishops  of  the  devil, 
cogging  and  cozening  knaves,  dumb  dojgs,  enemies  of  Grod,*  &c. 
For  which  cause  much  applauded  by  the  papists  beyond  sea,  (to  whom 
nothing  was  more  acceptable  than  to  see  the  English  hierarchy 
reproached  and  vilified,)  and  frequently  cited  by  them  aa  unquestioned 
evidences. 

Fuller. — I  am  most  disingenuously  dealt  with  by  the  Animad- 
vertor, obtruding  on  me  such  words :  In  defence  f  1  defy  it ; 
these  my  words  immediately  following : — "  But  the  more  discreet 
and  devout  sort  of  men,  even  of  such  as  were  no  great  friends  to 
the  hierarchy,  upon  solemn  debate  then  resolved,  (I  speak  on  cer- 
tain knowledge,  from  the  mouths  of  such  whom  I  must  believe,) 
that,  for  many  foul  falsehoods  therein  suggested,  such  books  were 
altogether  unbeseeming  a  pious  spirit  to  print,  publish,  or  with 
pleasure  peruse  ;  which,  supposed  true  both  in  matter  and  measure, 
charity  would  rather  conceal  than  discover ;  the  best  of  men  being 
so  conscious  of  their  own  badness,  that  they  are  more  careful  to 
wash  their  own  faces,  than  busy  to  throw  dirt  on  others.  Any  roan 
may  be  witty  in  a  biting  way ;  and  those  who  have  the  dullest 
brains  have  commonly  the  sharpest  teeth  to  that  purpose.  But 
such  carnal  mirth,  whilst  it  tickleth  the  flesh  doth  wound  the  soul. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  IX.      517 

Vnd,  which  was  the  main,  these  base  books  would  give  a  great 
id  vantage  to  the  general  foe ;  and  papists  would  make  too  much 
ise  thereof  against  protestant  religion ;  especially  seeing  an  arch- 
LTigel  thpught  himself  too  good  to  bring,  and  Satan  not  bad  enough 
;o  have  brought,  railing  speeches  against  him,  Jude  9.^  Reader, 
ipvhat  could  I  have  written  more  fully  and  freely  in  the  cordial 
letestation  of  such  abhominal  *  libels  ? 

Db.  Heylin. — For  if  our  author's  rule  be  good, "  That  the  fault  is  not 
Ln  the  writer,  if  he  truly  cite  what  is  false  on  the  credit  of  another ;"  (Gh. 
El^ist.  Tol.  iii.  p.  102;)  they  had  no  reason  to  examine  punctually  the 
truth  of  that  which  tended  so  apparently  to  the  great  advantage  of 
fclieir  cause  and  party.  But  this  rule,  whether  true  or  false,  cannot  be 
used  to  justify  our  author  in  many  passages,  though  truly  dted ;  con- 
sidering that  he  cannot  choose  but  know  them  to  be  &lse  in  them- 
selves. And  he  that  knowing  a  thing  to  be  false,  sets  it  down  for 
true,  not  only  gives  the  lie  to  his  own  conscience,  but  occasions  others 
also  to  believe  a  falsehood.  And  from  this  charge  I  cannot  see  how 
he  can  be  acquitted  in  making  the  bishops  to  be  guilty  of  those  filthy 
sins,  for  which  they  were  to  be  so  ^^  lashed  by  satirical  wits,"  or  imput- 
ing those  base  libels  unto  wanton  wits,  which  could  proceed  'from  np 
other  fountain  than  malicious  wickedness, 

Fuller. — I  say  again,  "  The  writer  is  faultless,  who  truly  cites 
what  is  false  on  the  credit  of  another  ;^  always  provided,  that  the 
other,  who  is  quoted,  hath  credit,  and  be  not  a  lying  libeller,  like 
these  pasquils. 

If  this  rule  be  not  true,  the  Animadvertor  will  have  a  hard  task 
of  it  to  make  good  all  in  his  "  Geography''  an  his  ovm  knawledffe  ; 
who  therein  hath  traded  on  trust,  as  much  as  another. 

181.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^But  I  am  weary  and  ashamed  of  raking  ih  so 
impure  a  kennel ;  and  for  that  cause  also  shall  willingly  pass  over  his 
apology  for  Hacket,  that  blasphemous  vnretch,  and  most  execrable  mis- 
creant, justly  condemned  and  executed  for  a  double  treason,  against 
the  King  of  kings  in  heaven,  and  the  queen  on  earth. 

Fuller. — I  appeal  to  the  reader,  whether  I  have  not  in  my 
Church-History  wrote  most  bitterly  and  deservedly  against  him ; 
only  I  took  occasion  by  Hacket's  Wness  to  raise  our  thankfulness 
to  God.  If  my  meat  herein  please  not  the  Animadvertor^s  palate, 
let  him  leave  it  in  the  dish ;  none  shall  eat  thereof  against  thei^ 
own  stomachs,  for  fear  of  a  surfeit. 

Dr.  Heylin. — Of  whom  he  would  not  have  us  think,  that  '^  he  and 

*  This  is  one  of  Fuller's  hmnorons  e'semplificatioDfl  of  verbal  criticism,  detiving  onr 
common  word  '<  abominable  *'  from  ah  and  homo,  hominis,  and  thus  converting  it  into 
the  very  expressive  term  cibhominaly  <<  unworthy  of  a  man,''  '<  mimanly>"  <'  inhimian^" 
—Edit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


518  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  11. 

his  two  companions  "  (his  two  prophets,  for  so  thej  called  themseWes) 
^'  were  worse  by  nature  than  all  others  of  the  £nglish  nation ;  the  1 
natural  corruption  in  the  hearts  of  others  being  not  less  headstrong,  I 
but  more  bridled ;  *  and,  finally,  that  "  if  God's  restraining  grace  be 
taken  from  us,  we  shall  all  run  unto  the  same  excess  of  riot."  (Ck 
Hist  vol.  iii.  p.  114.)  Which  plea^  if  it  be  good  for  Hacket,  will  hold 
good  for  Jadas ;  and  pity  it  is,  that  some  of  our  fine  wits  did  nerei 
study  an  apology  for  him. 

From  Hacket  he  goes  on  to  Trayers,  a  man  of  an  unquiet  spirit,  Bat 
not  half  so  mischierous,  of  whom  he  saith, — 

FuLLEK  : —    Our  author  proceeds  : — 

182.  Db.  Hetlin. — «  At  Antwerp  he  was  ordained  minister  bj 
the  presbytery  there,"  and,  not  long  after  that,  "  he  was  put  in  orders 
by  the  presbytery  of  a  foreign  nation."  (Ch.  Hist.  toL  iii.  pp.  125, 
126.)  Here  have  we  ordination,  and  putting  into  orders,  ascribed  to 
the  presbytery  of  Antwerp ;  a  mongrel  company,  consisting  of  tm 
blue  aprons  to  each  crewel  night-cap ;  and  that  too  in  such  positife 
terms,  and  without  any  the  least  qualification,  that  no  Presbyterian  m 
the  pack  could  have  spoken  more  plainly.  The  man  hath  hitherto 
stood  distracted  betwixt  shame  and  love  ;  love  to  the  cause,  and 
shame  to  be  discovered  for  a  party  in  it,  drawing  several  ways. 
Pudar  est  qui  suadeat  illinc,  kinc  dissuadet  amor^  in  the  poet's  lan- 
guage. And,  in  this  fit,  he  thought  it  good  to  "  withdraw  himself,  or 
stand  by  as  a  silent  spectator,  that  his  betters  might  have  room  to 
come  forth  and  speak  in  the  present  controversy  of  church-gorem- 
ment."  {Idem,  vol.  iii.  p.  35.)  But  here  love  carries  it  away,  and  be 
declares  himself  roundly  for  the  Presbyterians,  by  giving  them  the 
power  of  ordination,  and  consequently  of  ecclesiastical  censure  in  tneii 
several  consistories.  Had  he  used  the  words  of  the  certificate,  ^ti^b 
he  grounds  upon,  and  told  us  that  Travers  was  admitted  by  that  pres- 
bjrtery  to  the  ministry  of  the  holy  word,  fin  ^acto  verbi  Dei  minisk^<^ 
institutusy  as  their  words  there  are,)  he  had  done  the  part  of  an  histo- 
rian. They  may  make  ministers  how  and  of  whom  they  list,  and  pu 
"that  heavenly  treasure"  into  what  "  vesseLs"  they  please.  Scrtpt^- 
rmrum  ^rs  est  quam  omnes  passim  sibi  vindicanl,  as  St.  Jerome  com- 
plained in  his  time.  Let  every  tradesman  be  a  preacher,  and  ^^^ 
from  the  shop-board  to  the  pulpit,  if  they  think  well  of  it.  This  ni*y 
be  called  '*  a  making  of  ministers,*'  in  such  a  sense  as  Phebe  is  saw 
be  a  minister  of  the  church  of  Cenchrea,  to  minister  to  the  necessiti 
of  their  congregations.  But  to  ascribe  unto  them  a  power  of  ordiDa' 
tion,  or  of  giving  orders,  which  they  assume  not  to  themselves,  savo 
too  strong  of  the  party,  and  contradicts  the  general  rules  of  the  ancieii 
fathers.  At  this  time  I  content  myself  with  that  saying  of  Jerom  ? 
because  esteemed  no  friend  to  bishops ;  viz.  Quid  facit  epi^^^P^ ' 
exceptd  ordinatione,  quod  presbyter  non  facial  ?  and  for  the  rest  re 
the  reader  to  the  learned  treatise  of  Dr.  Boke,  entituled,  "Obser^^" 


'Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  IX.      5ig 

tions  upon  the  OTdinance  of  the  Lords  and  Conunons  at  Westminster 
for  the  ordination  of  ministers  pro  tempore^  printed  at  Oxford,  1644." 

Fuller. — It  is  better  to  wear  a  crewel  night-cap  than  a  crud 
hearty  causelessly  cavilling  at  every  man. 

Mr.  Travers  was  ordained  minister  or  priest  by  the  presbytery 
of  Antwerp,  and  never  had  other  ordination.  I  only  relate  that  it 
was  so  de  facto ;  and  appeal  to  the  reader,  whether  my  words 
import  the  least  countenance  and  approbation  thereof, — though  the 
sin  had  not  been  so  heinous,  if  I  had  so  done«- 

Db.  Hbylin. — Only  I  shall  make  bold  to  quit  my  author  with  a 
merry  tale,  (though  but  one  for  an  hundred,)  and  it  is  a  tale  of  an  old, 
jolly  popish  priest,  who,  having  no  entertainment  for  a  friend  who 
came  to  him  on  a  fasting-day,  but  a  piece  of  pork ;  and,  making  con- 
science of  observing  the  appointed  fast,  dipped  it  into  a  tub  of  water, 
saying,  "  Down,  pork  !  up,  pike  !  "  Satisfied  with  which  device,  (as, 
being  accustomed  to  transubstantiate^  he  well  might  be,)  he  caused  it 
to  be  put  into  the  pot  and  made  ready  for  dinner.  But  as  the  pork, 
for  all  this  sudden  piece  of  wit,  was  no  other  than  pork ;  so  th^e 
good  fellows  of  the  presbytery,  by  laying  hands  upon  one  another,  act 
as  little  as  he.  The  parties  so  imposed  upon  (imposed  upon^  indeed, 
in  the  proper  notion)  are  but  as  they  were,  lay-brethren  of  the  better 
stamp ;  minister Sy  if  you  will ;  but  not  priests  nor  deacons^  nor  any 
ways  canonically  enabled  for  divine  performances. 

Fuller. — It  is  not  a  fortnight  since  I  heard  proclamation 
against  the  selling  of  pork,  because  about  London  fatted  with  the 
flesh  of  diseased  horses. 

I  suspect  some  unwholesomeness  in  the  Animadvertor's  pork-story, 
especially  as  applied  ;  and  therefore  will  not  meddle  therewith. 

Dr.  HEYLiN.^But  fearing  to  be  chidden  for  this  levity,  I  knock  off 
again,  following  my  author  as  he  leads  me;  who,  beii^  over  shoes, 
will  be  over  boots  also.  B|e  is  so  lost  to  ''  the  high  royalist  and  covetous 
Conformist,"  that  he  cannot  be  in  a. worse  case  (with  them)  than  he  is 


Fuller. — If  I  be  "  lost  with  the  higiA  royalists  and  covetous  Con- 
formists," I  hope  I  shall  be  found  by  the  low  loyalists  and  liberal 
Conformists.  However,  may  God  be  pleased  to  find  my  soul ;  and 
I  pass  not  *  with  whom  I  be  lost. 

There  are  a  sort  of  men,  who,  with  Dr.  Manwaring,  maintain  that 
^ings  may  impose  without  Parliaments  what  taxes  they  please,  and 
^e  subjects  bound  to  payment  under  pain  of  damnation ;  a  prin- 
ciple introductory  to  tyranny  and  slavery.  These  I  term  ^^hiff/i 
loyalists;"  and  I  protest  myself  as  to  dissent  in  judgment  from 
toem,  so  not  to  be  at  all  ambitious  of  their  favour. 

•  In  the  ancient  meaning  oi^  *•  I  care  not  j "  "I  regard  not,"— Edit. 

Digitized  by  CjOOQ IC 


520  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.        FART  II. 

Db.  Hetlin. — ^And  therefore  haying  declared  himself  for  a  presbj- 
terian  in  point  of  goyemment,  he  will  go  through  with  his  work, 
showing  himself  a  professed  Calyinist  in  point  of  doctrine,  and  a  strict 
Sabbatarian  too  in  that  single  point,  though  therein  differing  (as  tHe 
rest  of  that  partj  do)  from  their  master  Calvin. 

Fuller.^— Where  have  I  declared  myself  for  a  presbyterian  m 
point  of  government?  who  never  scattered  syllable  (and  if  I  did, 
I  would  snatch  it  up  again)  to  countenance  such  presumption. 

I  confess  I  said,  that  Mr.  Travers  was  made  minister  or  priest  by 
the  presbytery  at  Antwerp ;  that  is,  made  minister  so  far  forth  as 
they  could  give,  and  he  receive,  the  ministerial  character,  who  never 
had  it  otherwise  impressed  upon  him. 

Suppose  a  disputable  power  should  dub  a  knight ;  might  not  a 
historian  say,  Such  a  man  was  made  a  knight  by  such  a  power  or 
person, — not  engaging  himself  to  justify  his  authority  that  made 
him  ?  And,  by  the  same  proportion,  I,  relating  Mr.  Travers  made 
minister  at  Antwerp,  am  not  concerned  to  justify,  nor  by  my 
expression  do  I  any  way  appjove,  their  minister-making ^  if  they 
have  no  commission  thereunto. 

I  cannot  close  with  the  Animadvertor  in  his  uncharitable  censure 
of  the  ministry  of  foreign  protestant  churches,  rendering  them 
utterly  invalid,  because  ordained  by  no  bishops.  Cain  (as  com- 
monly believed)  is  conceived  to  have  killed  a  fourth  part  of  man- 
kind by  murdering  Abel ;  but  the  Animadvertor''s  cruelty  to 
Protestants  hath  exceeded  this  proportion,  in  spiritually  killing 
more  than  a  fourth  part  of  protestants,  according  to  his  own  princi- 
ples :  for  if  no  priests  in  France,  Low  Countries,  Switzerland,  &c. 
then  no  sacraments  ;  then  no  church  ;  then  no  salvation. 

Far  more  charity  in  those  of  the  former  age.  Bishop  Andrews, 
when  he  concurred  with  others  of  his  own  order,  in  ordaining  a 
Scottishman  bishop,  who  (as  by  proportion  of  time  may  be  demon- 
strated) received  his  deaconship  and  priesthood  from  the  presbytery, 
conceived  such  ordination  of  validity  when  done ;  though,  I  believe, 
in  his  judgment  not  so  well  approving  the  doing  thereof:  other- 
wise he  would  never  have  consented  to  make  a  mere  layman, />^r 
saJtum,  a  bishop. 

183—192.  Dr.  Heylin.— First.  For  the  sahhath,  (for  the  hetter 
day  the  hetter  deed,)  having  repeated  the  chief  heads  of  Dr.  Bound's 
book,  published  anno  1595,  in  which  the  Sabbatarian  doctrines  were 
:prst  set  on  foot,  he  adds,  that  "  learned  men  were  much  divided  in 
their  judgments  about  the  same." 

"  Some,"  saith  he,  "  embraced  them  as  ancient  truths  consonant  to 
Scripture,  long  disused  and  neglected,  now  seasonably  revived  for  the 
increase  of  piety."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  144.)  Amongst  which  "some," 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HlSTORY,  BOOK  IX.      521 

lie  that  shall  take  Our  author  for  one  will  not  be  much  mistaken  either 
in  the  man  or  in  the  matter.  For  that  he  doth  approve  Bound's  doc- 
trines in  this  particular,  appears, 

First.  By  a  passage,  (Idem^  vol.  iii.  p.  ^s)  where  he  concurs  with 
liim  in  reckoning  the  casual  falling  of  the  scaffolds  at  Paris-garden  on 
tbe  Liord's-daj,  anno  1583,  for  a  divine  judgment  upon  those  who 
perished  by  it,  as  they  were  beholding  that  rude  pastime. 

Secondly.  By  his  censure  of  the  proceedings  of  archbishop  Whit- 
gift  against  these  doctrines,  of  whom  he  telleth  us,  that  ''  his  known 
opposition  to  the  proceedings  of  the  Brethren  rendered  his  actions 
more  odious ;  as  if  out  of  enyy  he  had  caused  such  a  pearl  to  be  con- 
cealed." (Idem^  vol.  iii.  p.  145.) 

Thirdly.  By  making  these  sabbath-doctrines  to  be  ''  the  diamond 
in  the  ring "  of  those  catechisms  and  controversies  which  ^terwards 
-were  set  out  by  the  stricter  divines.  (Idem^  vol.  iii.  p.  146.) 

Fourthly.  By  the  sadness  which  he  finds  in  recounting  "  the  grief 
and  distraction  occasioned  in  many  honest  men's  hearts"  by  the 
several  publishings  of  the  '^  Declaration  about  lawful  Sports." 
CIdem,  vol.  iii.  p.  270.) 

But  leaving  him  to  stand  or  fall  to  his  own  master,  I  would  fain  know 
vrhat  text  of  Scripture,   ancient  writer,  or  approved  council,  can  be 
brought  to  justify  Bound's  doctrines,  which  he  affirms  for  ancient  truths 
and  consonant  to  holy  Scripture ;  but  more  particularly  where  he  can 
show  me  any  ground  for  the  third  position ;  namely,  "  That  there  is  as 
great   reason  why  we  Christians   should   take  ourselves  as   straitly 
bound  to  rest  upon  the  Lord's  day  as  the  Jews  were  upon  their  sab- 
bath ;  it  being  one  of  the  moral  commandments,  whereof  all  are  of 
equal  authority."    This,  if  it  be  a  truth,  is  no  ancient  truth ;  and  when- 
soever it  be  received  and  allowed  for  truth,  will  in  conclusion  lay  as 
heavy  and  insupportable  burdens  upon  the  consciences  of  God's  people 
as  ever  were  imposed  upon  the  Jews  by  the  scribes  and  pharisees. 
And,  Secondly,  I  would  fain  know  the  meaning  of  the  following 
words,  in  which  it  is  said,  that  '^  others  conceived  them  grounded  on  a 
wrong  bottom ;  but,  because  they  tended  to  the  manifest  advance  of 
religion,  it  was  pity  to  oppose  them."     I  would  fain  know,  I  say,  (con- 
sidering that  the  foundation  of  the  Christian  faith  is  laid  on  the  doc- 
trine of  the  prophets  and  apostles,  Christ  himself  being  the   chief 
comer-stone,)  how  anything  which  is  not  built  upon  this  foundation, 
but  "grounded  on  a  wrong  bottom,"  (as  this  seemed  to  be,)  "coidd 
tend  to  the  manifest  advance  of  the  true  religion."     That  it  tended  to 
the  manifest  advance  of  some  religion,  I  shall  easily  grant ;  and  if  our 
author  mean  no  otherwise,  we  shall  soon  agree.  But  sure  I  am,  no  part 
of  "the  true  religion"  was  ever  grounded  upon  falsehood;  and  there- 
fore if  this  doctrine  were  grounded  on  so  ill  a  bottom  as  they  say  it 
was,  it  might  conduce  to  the  advancement  of  a  faction  and  men's  pri- 
vate interests,   but  to   the   true  religion  it  was  likely  to  contribute 
nothing  but  disgrace  and  scandals     Lastly.  I  am  to  mind  our  author, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


522  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II, 

that  he  makes  Mr.  Greenham's  treatise  of  the  Sabhath  to  be  published 
in  pursuance  of  Bound's  opinions,  which  could  not  be  till  in  or  after 
the  year  1595.  Whereas  he  had  laid  him  in  his  grare  aboye  two  years 
before,  telling  us  that  ^'  he  died  of  the  plague  in  London,  anno  1592." 
(Ch.  Hist.  ToL  iii.  p.  132.)  Bj  which  it  seems  that  Greenham  either 
writ  this  treatise  after  his  decease ;  or  else  our  author  hath  done  ill  in 
giying  the  first  honour  of  these  new  doctrines  unto  Dr.  Bound.  In 
the  next  place  we  shall  see  our  author  engage  himself  in  defence  of 
the  Calvinian  doctrines  about  predestination,  grace,  &c.  of  which  he 
telleth  us,  that 

Haying  much  '^troubled  both  the  schools  and  pulpit,  archbishop 
Whitgift,  out  of  his  Christian  care  to  propagate  the  truth  and  suppress 
the  opposite  errors,  caused  a  solemn^meeting  of  many  graye  and  learned 
diyines  at  Lambeth."  (Ch.  Hist.  yol.  iii.  p.  146.)  The  occasion  this : 
The  controyersies  about  predestination,  grace,  &c.  had  been  long 
agitated  in  the  schools  between  the  Dominicans  on  the  one  side  and 
the  Franciscans  on  the  other ;  the  Dominicans  grounding  their  opinion 
on  the  authority  of  St.  Augustine,  Prosper,  and  some  others  of  the 
following  writers ;  the  Franciscans,  on  the  general  current  of  the 
ancient  Fathers,  who  lived  ante  mota  certamina  Pelagiana^  "  before 
the  rising  of  the  pelagian  heresies."  Which  disputes  being  after  taken 
up  in  the  Lutheran  churches,  "  the  moderate  Lutherans  **  (as  they 
call  them)  followed  the  doctrine  of  Melancthon,  conformable  to  the 
Franciscans  in  those  particulars.  The  others  whom  they  call  '^  the  stiff 
pr  rigid  Lutherans,"  of  whom  Flaccius  Illyricus  was  the  chief,  go  in 
the  same  way  with  the  Dominicans.  The  authority  of  which  last 
opinion,  after  it  had  been  entertained  and  published  in  the  works  of 
CalviD,  for  his  sake  found  admittance  in  the  schools  and  pulpits  of 
most  of  the  Reformed  churches.  And  haying  got  footing  here  in  Eng- 
land, by  the  preaching  of  such  diyines  as  had  fled  to  Geneva  in  queen 
Mary's  time,  it  was  defended  in  the  schools  of  Cambridge  without 
opposition,  till  Peter  Baro,  a  Frenchman,  came  and  settled  there;  who, 
being  the  lady  Margaret's  Professor  in  that  University,  and  liking  bet- 
ter of  the  Melancthonian  way  than  that  of  Calvin,  defended  it  openly  in 
the  schools ;  many  of  parts  and  quality  being  gained  unto  his  opinion. 
Which  gave  so  much  displeasure  to  Dr.  Whitaker,  Dr.  Tyndal,  Mi. 
Perkins,  and  some  other  leading  men  of  the  contraty  judgment,  that 
they  thought  best  to  use  the  argument  ab  authoritate  to  convince  their 
adversaries ;  and  complained  thereof  to  the  archbishop,  and  in  the  end 
prevailed  with  him  to  call  that  meeting  at  Lambeth  which  our  author 
speaks  of:  in  which  some  Articles  (commonly  called  "the  Nine  Arti- 
cles of  Lambeth  ")  were  agreed  upon,  and  sent  down  to  Cambridge  in 
favour  of  Dr.  Whitaker,  and  his  associates.  But  our  author,  not  con- 
tent to  relate  the  story  of  the  quarrel,  must  take  upon  him  also  to  be 
a  judge  in  the  controversy.  He  had  before  commended  the  Domini- 
cans for  their  orthodoxy  in  these  points  of  doctrine,  as  they  were  then 
in  agitation  betwixt  them  and  the  Franciscans.     He  now  im)ceeds  to 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  IX.      523 

do  the  like  between  the  two  parties  (men  of  great  piety  and  learning 
appearing  in  it  on  both  sides)  disputii^  the  same  points  in  the  church 
of  Ikgland ;  honouring  the  opinion  of  Dr.  Whitaker  and  his  asso- 
ciates with  the  name  of  "  the  truth ; "  and  branding  the  other  with  the 
title  of  "  the  opposite  error."  And  yet,  not  thinking  that  he  had 
declared  himself  sufficiently  in  the  &Tour  of  the  Calyinian  party,  he 
telleth  us  not  long  after  of  these  Lambeth  Articles,  that  '*  though  they 
i^anted  the  authority  of  proyincial  Acts,  yet  will  they  readily  be 
received  of  all  orthodox  Christians  for  as  £ur  as  their  own  purity  bears 
conformity  to  God's  word."  (Ch.  Hist.  yoI.  iii.  p.  150.)  Which  last 
:i\rords  (though  someiyhat  perplexedly  laid  down)  must  either  intimate 
their  conformity  to  the  word  of  God,  or  else  signify  nothing.  But 
'whatsoever  opinion  our  author  hath  of  these  "  nine  Articles,"  certain 
it  is  that  queen  Elizabeth  was  much  displeased  at  the  making  of  them, 
and  commanded  them  to  be  suppressed,  which  was  done  accordingly  ; 
and  with  such  diligence  withal,  that  for  long  time  a  copy  of  them  was 
not  to  be  met  with  in  that  University.  Nor  was  king  James  better 
pleased  with  them  than  queen  Elizabeth  was.  Insomuch  that  when 
Dr.  Eeynolds  moved,  (in  the  Conference  of  Hampton-Court,)  that  the 
nine  Articles  of  Lambeth  might  be  superadded  to  the  thirty-nine 
Articles  of  the  church  of  England ;  king  James,  upon  an  information 
of  the  true  state  of  the  business,  did  absolutely  refuse  to  give  way  to 
it.  But  of  this  more  at  large  elsewhere.  I  only  add  a  memorandum 
of  our  author  s  mistake  in  making  Dr.  Eichard  Bancroft,  bishop  of 
London,  to  be  one  of  the  bishops  which  were  present  at  the  meeting  at 
Lan)beth ;  whereas  indeed  it  was  Richaxd  Fletcher,  bishop  elect  of 
London,  and  by  that  name  entituled  in  such  authors  as  relate  this 
story ;  Dr.  Bancroft  not  being  made  bishop  of  London,  or  of  any 
place  else,  till  the  year  1597,  which  was  two  years  after  this  assembly. 
A  like  mistake  relating  to  this  business  also,  I  find  in  ''  the  History  of 
Pambridge,"  about  Dr.  Baro,  of  whom  our  author  tells  us  thus : — 

"  The  end  of  Dr.  Peter  Baro's  (the  Margaret  Professor's)  triennial 
lectures  began  to  draw  near,"  &c.  And  not  long  after,  "  The  Univer- 
sity intended  to  cut  him  off  at  the  just  joint,  when  his  three  years 
should  be  expired."  ("  History  of  Cambridge,"  p.  213.)  This  shows 
our  author,  though  well-travelled  in  other  countries,  to  be  but  pere- 
grinus  domi^  *^  a  stranger  in  his  own  University ; "  in  which  the  Mar- 
garet Professor  is  not  chosen  for  "  three  years,"  but  for  two  years  only. 
And  this  appears  plainly  by  the  statutes  of  that  foundation,  the  precise 
words  thereof  are  these  ;  namely,  Et  volumus  insuper  quod  de  catero 
quolibet  biennio  ultimo  die  cessationis  cujuslihet  termini  ante  magnam 
vacattonem  Universiiaiis  prasdictce^  una  kahilis^  apta^  et  idonea  per- 
sona in  Lector  em  lectures  prcedicice  pro  uno  biennio  integro^  viz,^  a 
festo  Naliviiatis  B*  Marias  virginis  tunc  proximo  sequente  duntaxat 
duraturo,  eligatur.  (Fol.  105,  in  nigro  codice,)  For  this  I  am  beholding 
to  the  author  of  the  pamphlet  called  "  the  Obseryator  observed,"  and 
thank  him  fgr  it.     Which  said,  we  shall  close  up  this  ninth  book  with 


Digitized  by 


Google 


524  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

some  considerations  on  these  following  words,  which  our  author  very 
ingenuously  hath  laid  before  us ;  namely, — 

"  If  we  look  now  on  the  Nonconformists,  we  shall  find  all  still  and 
quiet ;  who  began  now  to  repose  themselves  in  a  sad  silence,  especially 
after  the  execution  of  Udai  and  Penry  had  so  terrified  them,  that, 
though  they  might  have  secret  designs,  we  meet  not  their  open  and 
public  motions."  (Ch.  Hist.  Yol.  iii.  p.  152.)     And,  to  say  truth,  it 
was  high  time  for  them  to  change  their  course  in  which  they  had  so 
often  been  foiled  and  worsted.  The  learned  works  of  Dr.  Bilson,  (after 
bishop  of  Winchester,)  in  defence  of  the  episcopal  govepmient,  of  Dr. 
Cosin,  dean  of  the  Arches,  in  maintenance  of  the  proceedings  in 
courts  ecclesiastical ;  with  the  two  books  of  Dr.  Bancroft,  the  one  dis- 
covering the  absurdities  of  the  "  pretended  holy  discipline,"  the  other 
their  practices  and  positions  to  advance  the  same,  gave  the  first  check 
to  their  proceedings  at  the  push  of  pen.     All  which  being  published, 
anno  1593,  were  seconded  about  two  years  after  by  the  accurate  and 
well-studied  works  of  Richard  Hooker,  then  Master  of  the  Temple, 
and  prebend  of  Canterbury ;  in  which  he  so  asserted  the  whole  body 
of  the  English  Liturgy,  and  laid  such  grounds  to  found  her  polity  upon, 
that  he  may  justly  be  affirmed  to  have  struck  the  last  blow  in  this 
quarrel.     But  it  was  not  so  much  the  arguments  of  these  learned  men, 
as  the  seasonable  execution  of  some  principal  sticklers,  which  occa- 
sioned the  great  calm  both  in  church  and  state,  not  only  for  the  rest  of 
the  queen  s  time,  but  a  long  time  after.     For,  besides  that  Cartwright, 
and  some  other  of  the  principal  and  most  active' leaders,  had  been 
imprisoned  and  proceeded  against  in  the  court  of  Starchamber;  the 
edge  of  the  statute  23  Elizabeth,  c.  2,  which  before  we  spake  of,*  had 
made  such  terrible  work  amongst  them,  that  they  durst  no  longer  ven- 
ture on  their  fonner  courses.      Copping  and  Thacker  hanged  at  St 
Edmondsbury  in  Suffolk,  Barrow  and  Greenwood  executed  at  Tyburn, 
and  Penry  at  St.  Thomas  of  Waterings,  XJdal,  Billot,  Studley,  and 
Bouler  condemned  to  the  same  death,  though  at  last  reprieved,  (not  to 
say  any  thing  of  Hacket,  with  Coppinger  and  Arthington  his  two  pro- 
phets, as  more  mad  than  the  rest,)  could  not  but  teach  them  this  sad 
lesson, — ^that  it  is  no  safe  dallying  with  fire,  nor  jesting  with  edge  tools. 
But  there  are  more  ways  to  the  wood  than  one ;  and  they  had  wit 
enough  to  cast  about  for  some  other  way,  since  the  first  had  failed 
them.     Hac  nofi  successit^  alid  tentandum  est  vid^  had  been  learned 
in  vain,  if  not  reducible  to  practice.     So  that  it  is  no  marvel  if,  after 
this,   we  find  them  not  "in  any  public  and  open  motion;"  when 
"  wearied  with  their  former  blusterings,"  and  terrified  with  the  sad 
remembrance  of  such  executions,  they  betook  themselves  to  secret  and 
more  dark  designs.  Occultior  Pompeius  Ccesare^  non  melior^  as  it  is  in 
Tacitus :  "  Pompey's  intentions  were  not  less  mischievous  to  the  com- 
monwealth than  Caesar's  were,  but  more  closely  carried."    And  because 
closely   carried,  the  more  likely  to  have  taken  effect,  had  any  but 
•  Seepage  614. — Edit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  IX.      525 

Csesar  been  the  head  of  the  opposite  party.  The  fort  that  had 
been  found  impregnable  bj  open  batteries,  hath  been  taken  at  last  by 
undermining.  Nor  ever  were  the  Houses  of  Parliament  more  like  to 
liaye  been  blown  up  with  gunpowder,  than  when  the  candle  which 
yvaa  to  give  fire  to  it  was  carried  by  Faux  in  a  dark  lanthom.  Hence- 
ibrward,  therefore,  we  shall  find  the  Brethren  at  another  ward,  practis- 
ing their  party  underhand,  working  their  business  into  a  State-faction, 
and  never  so  dangerously  carrying  on  the  plot  as  when  least  observed ; 
till,  in  the  end,  when  all  preventions  were  let  slip,  and  the  danger 
grown  beyond  prevention,  they  brought  their  matters  to  that  end 
which  we  shall  find  too  evidently  in  the  end  of  this  History.  To 
which  before  we  can  proceed,  we  must  look  back  upon  a  passage  of 
another  nature,  which,  without  interrupting  the  coherencies  of  the 
former  Observations,  could  not  be  taken  notice  of  and  rectified  in  its 
proper  place ;  and  is  this  that  followeth  : — 

Fuller. — The  Animadvertor  iraposeth  on  me  that  which  is  con- 
trary to  my  judgment. 

I  am  not  of  Dr.  Bound'^s  opinion,  who  straineth  the  sabbath  too 
high;  yea,  the  Animadvertor,  when  writing  against  Mr.  Le  Strange, 
inaketh  use  of  above  twenty  lines  out  of  my  book  against  him. 

.  I  am  of  the  judgment  of  moderate  men,  as  I  have  clearly  and 
largely  stated  it  in  my  *' Church-History ;''  and  will  live,  and 
desire  to  die,  in  the  maintenance  thereof.  And  I  hope  the  Ani- 
madvertor will  allow  me  to  know  my  own  judgment  better  than  he 
doth. 

I  am  not  of  the  Aniraadvertor''s  mind, — that  the  Lord's  day  is 
alterable  and  of  mere  ecclesiastical  constitution  ;  much  less  dare  I 
concur  with  him  in  his  scandalous  expression,  "  that  the  late  Parlia- 
ment hath  by  their  orders  and  ordinances  laid  greater  restraints  on 
people  than  ever  the  scribes  and  pharisees  did  on  the  Jews."  * 

To  what  followeth  in  the  Animadvertor  concerning  the  Articles 
at  Lambeth,  I  return  no  other  answer,  save  this  :  As  a  historian,  I 
have  written  truly  for  matter  of  fact ;  and  if,  as  a  divine,  I  have 
interposed  something  of  my  judgment  in  those  points,  I  believe  the 
Animadvertor,  if  writing  on  the  same  subject,  would  not  appear 
more  moderate.  Meantime,  I  am  sure  he  diflfers  as  much  from  me, 
as  I  from  him,  in  these  opinions ;  and,  therefore,  I  see  no  reason  of 
his  animosity  on  this  account.     Our  author  proceeds : — 

193.  Dr.  Heylin. — "  Queen  Elizabeth,  coming  to  the  crown,  sent 
for  abbot  Feck^nham  to  come  to  her,  whom  the  messenger  found  set- 
ting of  elms  in  the  orchard  of  Westminster  Abbey.  But  he  would  not 
follow  the  messenger,  till  first  he  had  finished  his  plantation.'*  (Ch. 
Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  79)  The  tale  goes  otherwise  by  tradition  than  is  here 
delivered ;  and  well  it  may.  For  who  did  ever  hear  of  any  elms  in 
•  In  his  "  Advertisements  on  the  History  of  King  Charles,"  p.  64. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


526  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

"Westminster  orchard ;  or,  to  say  tmih,  of  any  elms  in  any  orchard 
whatsoever  of  a  late  plantation  ?  Elms  are  for  groves,  and  fields,  and 
forests,  too  cumbersome  and  overspreading  to  be  set  in  orchards.  But 
the  tale  goes,  that  abbot  Feckenham,  being  bnsied  in  planting  elms 
near  his  garden-wall,  in  the  place  now  called  the  Dean's-yard,  was 
encountered  with  one  of  his  acquaintance,  saying,  **  My  lord,  you  may 
very  well  save  your  labour,  the  Bill  for  dissolving  of  your  monastery 
being  just  now  passed."  To  which  the  good  old  man,  unmoved, 
returned  this  answer :  ^'  That  he  would  go  foiwards  howsoeyer  in  his 
plantation ;  not  doubting,  though  it  pleased  not  God  to  continue  it  in 
the  state  it  was,  but  that  it  would  be  kept  and  used  as  a  seat  of  learn- 
ing for  all  times  ensuing."  Which  said,  our  author  need  not  trouble 
himself  with  thinking  "  how  his  trees  thrive  at  this  day,"  as  he  seems 
to  do ;  he  knows  where  to  find  them. 

FuLLEE. — When  a  traveller  on  the  highway  suddenly  returns 
back  again,  surely  it  is  to  fetch  some  matter  of  moment,  which  lie 
hath  forgotten  and  left -behind  him.  The  Animadvertor  in  this  his^ 
note  retreats  above  fifty  pages  in  my  "  Church-History,"  namely, 
from  page  144  to  page  79.  And  what  is  this  retrogade  motioii  for  ? 
Even  to  carp  at  elms,  which  I  say  were  set  by  abbot  Feckenham  in 
the  orchard  of  the  dean  of  Westniinster,  citing  my  author,  Rey.- 
NERius,  for  the  same;  whose  words,  in  horto,  I  translate,  "in  the 
orchard,^  as  more  proper  for  elms  than  a  garden.  Thus  have  you 
my  tale  and  my  tale^s  maker.  So  that  this  wooden  Animadversion 
might  well  have  been  spared. 


BOOK  X. 

CONTAINING    THE    REIGN    OF    KJNG    JAMES. 

194.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^The  Puritan  clamours  being  hushed,  and  the 
papists  giving  themselves  some  hopes  of  better  days,  afforded  king  James 
a  quiet  entrance  to  the  crown.  But  scarce  was  he  warm  upon  the 
throne,  but  the  Puritans  assaulted  him  with  their  petitions ;  and  some 
of  the  papists,  finding  their  hopes  began  to  fail  them,  turned  their 
private  discontents  into  open  practices,  endeavouring  to  settle  their 
religion  by  the  destruction  of  the  -king,  and  the  change  of  govern- 
ment.    And,  First,  beginning  with  the  papists,  because  first  in  time. 

"  Watson,  with  William  Clark,  (another  of  his  own  profession,) 
having  fancied  a  notional  treason,  imparted  it  to  George  Brooke."  (Ch. 
Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  169.)  To  these  he  after  adds  the  lord  Cobham 
a  protestant,  the  lord  Gray  of  Whaddon  a  puritan,  and  sir  Walter 
Raleigh  «  an  able  statesman,"  and  "  some  other  knights." 

In  the  recital  of  which  names  our  author  hath  committed  a  double 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  X.        527 

fault,  ihe  one  of  omission,  and  the  ottier  of  commission.  Afanlt  of  omis- 
siouy  in  leaving  out  sir  Griffidi  Markham,  as  much  concerned  as  any 
of  the  principal  actors,  designed  to  hare  been  Secretary  of  Estate,  had 
the  plot  succeeded;  and  finidiy  anuigned  and  condemned  at  Win- 
chester, as  the  othero  were. 

FuLLKB.— I  distinguish  betwixt  total  omission^  express  enwmera- 
tion^  and  implicit  inclusion.  Sir  Griffith  Markham  cannot  be  said 
to  be  omitted  by  me,  because  included  in  that  clause,  "  and  some 
other  knights.''  Yea,  this  whole  treason  had  not  at  all  found  any 
mention  in  my  History,  (not  being  bound  to  take  cognizance 
thereof,)  save  for  the  two  priests,  who  were  engaged  therein. 

195 — 197*  Dr.  Heylin. — His  fault  of  commission  is,  his  calling 
the  lord  Gray  by  the  name  of  the  lord  Gray  of  WTiaddon,  (a  fault  not 
easily  to  be.  pardoned  in  so  great  an  herald,)  whereas,  indeed,  though 
Whaddon  in  Buckinghamshire  was  part  of  his  estate,  yet  Wilton  in 
Herefordshire  was  his  barony  and  ancient  seat;  his  ancestors  being 
called  lords  Gray  of  Wilton,  to  difference  them  from  the  lord  Gray  of 
Eeuthen,  the  lord  Gray  of  Codnor,  &c. 

Haying  thus  satisfied  our  author  in  this  particular,  I  would  gladly 
satisfy  myself  in  some  others  concerning  this  treason :  in  which  I  find 
so  many  persons  of  such  different  humours  and  religions,  that  it  is 
veiy  hard  to  think  how  they  could  either  mingle  their  interests,  or  unite 
their  counsels.     But  discontentments  make  men  fuel  fit  for  any  fire  > 
and  discontents  had  been  on  purpose  put  upon  some  of  them,  the 
more  to  estrange  them  from  the  king,  and  the  king  from  them.     And 
though  I  am  not  CEdipus  enough  for  so  dark  a  sphinx,  yet  others  who 
haye  had  more  light  into  tha  businesses  of  that  time,  have  made  their 
discontents  to  grow  upon  this  occasion : — Sir  Robert  Cecil,  then  princi- 
pal Secretary  to  the  Estate,  fearing  the  great  abilities  of  Raleigh,  and 
being  wearied  with  the  troublesome  impertinencies  of  Gray  and  Cob- 
ham,  all  which  had  joined  with  him  in  design  against  the  earl  of  Essex 
their  common  enemy,  had  done  their  errand  to  king  James,  (whose 
counsels  he  desired  to  engross  to  himself  alone,)  before  his  coming  into 
England.  And  the  plot  took  so  good  effect,  that  when  the  lord  Cobham 
went  to  meet  the  king  as  he  came  towards  London,  the  king  checked 
him  (being  then  Warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports)  for  his  absence  from 
his  charge  in  that  dangerous  time.     The  lord  Gray  was  not  looked 
upon  in  the  court,  as  he  had  been  formerly,  there  being  no  longer  use 
of  his  rashness  and  precipitations.     And  the  better  to  discountenance 
Raleigh,  who  had  been  captain  of  the  guard  to  queen  Elizabeth,  the 
king  bestowed  that  office  on  sir  Thomas  Eirskine,  then  viscount  Fentori, 
and  captain  of  his  guard  in  Scotland.     All  which  being  publicly 
observed,  it  was  no  hard  matter  for  George  Brooke  to  work  upon  the 
weak  spirits  of  Gray  and  Cobham ;  (of  whom  the  last  was  his  bro- 
ther, and  the  first  his  brother  s  special  friend ;)  and  by  such  artifice^  as 
he  used  in  laying  before  them  their  disgraces,  and  showing  them  a  way 


Digitized  by 


Google 


528  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

to  right  themselves,  to  draw  them  into  the  confederacy  with  Clark  and 
Watson.  And  it  is  possible  that  thej,  not  being  substantive  enough 
to  stand  alone,  might  acquaint  -Raleigh  with  the  plot,  whose  head  was 
able  to  do  more  than  all  their  hands.  But  of  his  actings  in  it,  or  con- 
senting to  it,  when  the  parties  were  brought  unto  their  trial,  there 
appeared  no  proof,  but  that  Cobham,  in  his  con^ssion  taken  before 
the  Lords,  had  accused  him  of  it ;  and  that  not  onlj  as  an  accessary, 
but  a  principal  actor.  But  Cobham  not  being  brought  into  the  open 
court  to  justify  his  accusation  face  to  face,  as  the  custom  is,  it  was 
thought  a  good  argument  by  many  that  Raleigh  was  not  so  criminal  in 
this  matter  as  his  enemies  made  him.  And  though  found  guilty  by 
the  jury  on  no  other  evidence  than  a  branch  of  Cobham's  confession, 
not  so  much  as  subscribed  by  his  hand ;  yet  all  men  were  not  satisfied 
in  the  manner  of  this  proceeding ;  it  being  then  commonly  affirmed 
that  Cobham  had  retracted  his  accusation,  as  since  it  hath  been  said 
and  printed,  that  ''  in  a  letter  written  the  night  before  his  trial,  and 
then  sent  to  ihe  Lords,  he  cleared  Raleigh  from  all  manner  of  treasons 
against  the  king  or  state.*'  For  which,  consult  the  '^  Observations  upon 
some  particular  Persons  and  Passages,"  &c.  printed  anno  1656. 

But  from  the  practices  of  the  papists,  wbich  have  led  me  thus  far 
out  of  my  way,  it  is  now  time  that  I  proceed  to  the  petition  of  the 
Puritans,  presented  to  the  king  much  about  that  time. 

"This  was  called  the  Millenary  Petition."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  172.) 
And  it  was  called  so,  because  given  out  to  be  subscribed  by  a  thousand 
hands,  though  it  wanted  a  fourth  part  of  that  number.  More  modest 
now  than  they  had  been  in  Penry's  time,  when,  instead  of  one  thou- 
sand, they  threatened  to  bring  a  petition  which  should  be  presented 
by  the  hands  of  a  hundred  thousand.  More  modest  also  in  the  style 
and  phrase  of  their  petition,  and  in  the  subject-matter  of  it,  than  they 
had  been  when  Martin  Mar-prelate  ruled  the  roast,  and  would  be 
satisfied  with  nothing  but  the  ruin  of  the  English  hierarchy.  Which 
notwithstanding,  the  king  thought  fit  to  demur  upon  it,  and  recom- 
mended the  answering  of  their  petition  to  the  University  of  Oxford, 
and  pt]  was  done  accordingly.  The  answer  and  petition,  printed  not 
long  after,  gave  the  first  stop  to  this  importunity ;  repressed  more  fully 
by  the  Conference  at  Hampton-Court ;  of  which  it  is  told  us  by  our 
author,  how  some  of  the  Millenary  party  complained  that — 

Fuller. — ^A  fault  not  so  great  neither  iu  an  herald,  seeing  I 
call  him  not  "  lord  Gray,  baron  of  Whaddon,"  but  of  Whaddon ; 
and  a  noble  person  may  be  additioned  either  from  his  honour  or  his 
habitation.  Besides  Wilton  in  Herefordshire  long  since  hieing  run 
into  ruin,  those  lords,  some  sixscore  years  ago,  removed  their  resi- 
dence to  Whaddon  in  Backs,  where  some  of  them  lived,  died,  and 
are  buried. 

The  Animadvertor  made  as  great  an  omission  in  his  "Short 
View  of  King  Charies,"  when  mentioning  his  tutor  Mr.  Murray, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HlSTORy,  BOOK  X.      529 

but  quite  leaving  out  wr  James  Fullerton,  conjoitted  with  him  in 
the  same  eharge  of  the  princess  education.  And  a  greater  fault  of 
eammisnon  is  he  guUtj  of,  when  taxing  Mr.  Murray  as  disafPeeted 
to  the  English  church ;  who,  when  made  Provost  of  Eaton,  took 
his  oath,  and  therein  professed  his  good  liking  of  our  discipline,  as 
in  the  <«  Cabala''  doth  appear. 

To  return  to  Whaddon  :  the  Animadvertor  might  have  spared 
this  his  note,  who,  in  tlie  Postscript  annexed  to  this  book,*  maketh 
Edward  lord  Montague  created  baron  of  Broughton  in  Northamp- 
tonshire. Now,  though  the  lord  Montague  hath  the  manor  of  Brough- 
ton, (with  the  appendant  advowson,)  and  other  considerable  lands 
therein ;  yet  is  he  biuron  of  Boughton  in  the  same  county.  A  mis- 
take so  much  the  greater  in  the  Animadvertor,  because  done  in  his 
mendoHon  of  his  emendations  of  the  faults  of  another,  so  that  he 
cannot  hit  it  tight  in  this  his  third  endeavour.  This  I  had  passed 
over  in  silence,  had  not  his  cruelty  on  my  pen-  or  press^lips  ooca» 
sioned  me  to  take  notice  thereof.     Our  author  proceeds  :— 

198 — 202.  Da.  Heylin. — '^  This  Conference  was  partially  set  forth 
only  by  Dr.  Barlow,  dean  of  Chester,  thdr  professed  adversary,  to  the 
great  disadvantage  of  their  divmea."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p*  19^.)     If 
so,  how  did  it  come  to  pass,  that  none  of  their  divines  then  pres^it, 
nor  aay  other  in  their  behalf,  did  ever  manifest  to  the  werld  the  paar- 
tialides  and  felsehoods  of  it  ?    The  book  was  printed  saot  long  v£t&c 
the  end  of  the  Conference,  puUiely  passing  from  one  hand  to  anothero 
and  never  convicted  of  any  such  eruoae  as  it  stands,  eharged  with,  m 
any  one  particular  passage,  to  this  very  ^y.     Only  it  pleased  some  of 
the  zeidots  to  scatter  abroad  soilie  trifling  papers,  not  amounting  to  }ialf 
a  sheet  amongst  them,  which  tended  to  the  holding-up  of  their  sinking 
party  ;  and,  being  brought  by  Dr.  Barlow,  were  by  him  put  in  print  and 
pubiislied  at  the  end  of  his  book,  ut  deierrimd  camparation^  glariam 
tibi  wmpararet^  in  the  words  of  Tacitus.     He  could  not  better  mani- 
fest his  own  abilities,  than  by  having  those  weak  and  imperfect  scribbles 
f<Hr  a  foiil  unto  thaoi*     And  here,  before  I  leave  this  Conference,  I 
laust  make  a  start  to  Ch«  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  293,  for  rectifying  a  mistake 
of  (Mir  author's,  whidi  relates  unto  it :  where,  speaking  of  Dr.  King, 
thea  Uflhop  of  London^  and  reciting  the  course  both  of  his  prefennents 
and  employments,  he  teUeth  us,  that,  soon  after  tbe  king's  coming  to 
the  crown,  ''  he  was  made  dean  of  Christ-Church  in  Oxon,  and  chosen 
one  of  the  four  preadkers  in  the  Conference  at  Hampton-Court."    But, 
^t,  Dr.  Ki«g  WAS  not  dean  of  Christ-Church  at  the  time  of  the 
inference  at  Hampton-Court ;  that  Conference  beuig  held  in  January, 
onno  1603,  and  Dr.  King  not  coming  to  the  deanery  pf  Christ-Church 
till  i^e  year  1605.    Sec<Nidly.  He  was  none  of  the  fosjix  preachers  in 
the  Conference  at  Hampton-Court,  there  being  no  such  preachers 

•  P«ge  ^,  Une  14. 
M    M  . 


Digitized  by 


Google 


590  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENC£.  PART  II. 

chosen  for  the  time  of  that  Conference.  But  as  it  is  a  tme  and  old  saying, 
that  omnisfahula  fundatur  in  hutorid  /  so  I  maj  say,  l^iat  there  \n& 
sometiiing  true  and  real,  which  might  carry  him  inadvertently  upon 
this  error.  For  in  Septemher,  anno  1606,  it  pleased  krog  James  to 
call  hefore  him  at  Hampton-Court  the  Melvins,  and  some  other  of  the 
principal  sticklers  for  presbytery  of  the  Scottish  nation.  For  infoima- 
tion  of  whose  judgment,  and  reducing  them,  if  possible,  to  some  con- 
formity, he  caused  four  sermons  to  be  there  preached  in  their  hearing, 
by  four  of  his  most  able  divines ;  that  is  to  say,  Dr.  Andrews,  then 
bishop  of  Chichester;  Dr.  Barlow,  (before-mentioned,)  then  bishop  of 
Rochester ;  Dr.  King,  then  dean  of  Christ-Church,  afiter  bishop  of 
London;  and  Dr.  Buckeridge,  who  after  succeeded  in  the  see  of 
Rochester,  and  died  bishop  of  Ely.  Which  four  sermons,  being  after- 
wards printed  and  bound  together,  though  they  gave  very  good  satis- 
fection  to  most  persons  else,  could  get  no  ground  upon  those  refractory 
Scots,  who  were  resolved  aforehand  not  to  "  hear  the  voice  of  those 
charmers,  charmed  they  never  so  sweetly." 

'^Indeed,  a  statute  had  formerly  been  made,  the  thirteenth  of 
queen  Elizabeth,  which,  to  prevent  final  alienation  of  church-land, 
did  disable  all  subjects  from  accepting  them :  but  in  that  statute  a 
liberty  was  left  unto  the  Crown  to  receive  the  same."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii. 
p.  201.)  Our  author  speaks  this  on  occasion  of  a  statute  made  in  the 
first  Parliament  of  king  James,  by  which  the  king  and  his  successors 
were  made  uncapable  of  receiving  any  grants  or  leases  of  lands,  &om 
any  archbishops,  or  bishops,  for  longer  than  twenty-one  years,  or  three 
lives.  But  he  is  much  mistaken  in  the  grounds  of  it.  For,  First, 
the  statute  he  relates  unto  was  not  made  in  the  thirteenth  year  of  the 
queen ;  that  statute  extending  only  unto  deans  and  chapters,  masters 
of  Colleges  and  Hospitals,  as  also  unto  parsons  and  vicars,  who  bj 
long  leases  had  dilapidated  the  public  patrimony  of  the  church,  and 
their  several  houses :  not  a  word  in  it  which  concerns  archbishops  and 
bishops,  or  any  leases  by  them  made.  And,  Secondly,  that  statute, 
whatsoever  it  be,  doth  not  disable  all  subjects  from  accepting  such  leases, 
grants,  and  alienations,  but  disableth  the  said  archbiidiops  and  bishops 
from  making  such  grants  unto  the  subjects.  But  the  truth  is,  that 
statute  which  our  author  means  is  an  unprinted  statute  made  in  the 
first  year  of  queen  Elizabeth;  by  which  it  was  enacted,  '^that  it 
should  be  law^  for  the  said  queen,  as  often  as  any  archbishopric  or 
bishopric  shoidd  be  vacant,  to  take  unto  herself  any  of  the  castles, 
manors,  lands,  tenements,  and  hereditaments  to  the  same  belonging, 
and  to  pay  the  said  archbishop  or  bishop  in  impropriations,  tithes,  and 
portions  of  tithes."  And  this  is  that  statute  which  our  author  relates 
unto,  Ch.  Hist.  vol.  ii.  p.  468,  where  it  is  said,  that  "  a  Bill  passed  for 
the  assurance  of  certain  lands  assumed  by  the  queen  from  some  bishop- 
rics during  their  vacation."  And,  Secondly,  it  was  enacted  in  the  said 
unprinted  statute,  '^  that  it  should  not  be  lawful  for  any  archbishop  or 
bishop  to  grant  any  lands,  leases,  or  estates  for  more  than  twenty-one 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  X.       53X 

years,  or  three  lires,  to  any  person  whatsoever,  except  it  were  unto  the 
queen,  her  heirs  and  successors ; "  which  last  words  opened  such  a  gap 
to  sacrilege  and  rapine,  that  what  the  queen  thought  fit  to  leaye  unto 
the  church,  vacanie  sede,  the  courtiers  would  find  some  way  to  divest 
it  of,  by  making  use  of  this  last  clause,  first  in  obtaining  such  a  grant 
to  be  made  to  the  queen,  and  then  from  the  queen  unto  themselves : 
so  that  our  author  might  have  savled  his  advocating  for  this  clause 
of  that  Act,  considering  that  he  saw  the  ill  consequents  and  effects 
thereof. 

^*  Some  of '  the  greatest  prelates,  (how  much  self  is  there  in  all 
men!)  though  seemingly  forward,  really  remiss  in  the  matter."  (Ch. 
Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  240.)  This  spoken  in  relation  to  Chelsea  College ; 
the  stop  whereof  must  be  imputed  to  some  great  prelates,  fearing  to 
grow  less,  both  in  esteem,  power,  and  jurisdiction,  if  that  work  went 
forwards.  Contrary  whereunto  he  telleth  us  of  archbishop  Bancroft, 
that  he  was  very  forward  ^^in  founding  Chelsea  College,  which,  as  a 
two-edged  sword,  was  to  cut  on  both  sides, — to  suppress  papists  and 
sectaries."  (Idem^  vol.  iii.  p.  245.)  Upon  which  grounds  there  is  no 
question  to  be  made  but  that  the  work  was  furthered  also  by  the  rest 
of  the  bishops, — at  the  least  not  hindered.  Our  author  hatib  indeed 
afforded  us  this  marginal  note;  namely,  ^'This  obstruction  signifies 
nothing  to  discreet  men ;  however,  it  must  pass  for  company-sake." 
But  it  had  argued  more  discretion  in  him,  as  I  conceive,  to  have  left 
this  obstruction,  as  he  calls  it,  out  of  his  discourse,  than,  first,  to  break 
the  bishops'  heads,  and  th^  give  them  this  plaster. 

Fuller. — I  only  said,  that  some  "  did  complain  that  this  Con- 
ference was  partially  set  forth.*"  I  avowed  not  that  they  complained 
justly ;  I  believe  their  complaint  causeless,  (and  let  it  be  remediless 
for  me,)  seeing  I.  myself  profess,  Terbo  sacerdotis^  that  I  have  been 
accused  that  I  have  abridged  this  Conference  to  the  disparagement 
of  Dr.  Reynolds,  though  my  conscience  be  clear  herein. 

203 — ^205.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^^  Howsoever,"  our  author  telleth  us,  that 
^^  he  "  (namely,  Mr.  Nicholas  Fuller)  '^  left  behind  him  the  reputation 
of  an  honest  man."  (Idem^  vol.  iii.  p.'  243.)  No  question  of  it.  It  is 
a  thing  so  incident  to  the  name,  that  whatsoever  they  do  or  say,  they 
are  honest  still. 

Fuller. — ^AU  his  jeering  on  my  name  shall  not  make  me  go  to 
tlie  herald's  office  to  endeavour  the  altering  thereof.  I  fetched  it 
from  my  great-great  grand-father,  and  hope  shall  leave  it  to  my 
great-great  grand-child  ;  a  name  which  no  doubt  originally  was 
taken  from  that  useful  trade,  without  which  mankind  can  neither  be 
warm  nor  cleanly. 

The  like  is  frequent  in  many  respectful  families  in  England,  as 
the  antiquary  hath  observed  : — 

2   M  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


S92  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCEKCB.  PART  II. 

«  Fram  frfMM0  caae  Smith,  Obe  1 


Yet,  considering  tlie  nanoiniess  of  my  niuAe,  it  is  infenvt  to  feir, 
haTiDg  prodaced  the  best  of  English  pflots,  Thomas  Fuller,  wlo 
steered  captain  Cavendish  round  about  the  world ;  the  best  of  Eng- 
lish critics,  Nicholas  Fuller,  so  famous  in  foreign  parts  for  Us 
**  Miscellanies  ;'*^  and  none  of  the  worst  of  English  bene&ctois, 
John  Fuller,  one  of  the  Judges  of  the  SheriflTs  Court  in  London, 
who  built  and  endowed  an  almshouse  for  twelve  poor  men  at 
StdEcn-heatki  and  another  at  Shoreditch  for  as  many  poor  womeD.f 
Besides^  he  gave  his  lands  and  tenements  of  great  yearly  valuation 
in  the  parishes  of  St.  Bene\  and  Peter's  PauFs  wharf,  London,  to 
feoflfees  in  trust,  to  release  prisoners  in  the  hole  <^  both  compters, 
whose  debts  exceeded  not  twenty  shillings  eight-pence.  Yes, 
hf^  hath  at  this  day,  one  Bishcp,  one  Dean,  one  Doctor,  two 
Ekichelora  of  Divinity,  and  many  Masters  of  Arts,  of  no  contempti- 
ble condition.  Pardon,  reader,  this  digression  done  se  defendendo 
against  one,  by  whom  my  name  is  too  much  under-valued,  by  ironical 
over-valuing  thereof. 

Dr..  HsTUR^^^Before,  we  had  the  story  of  ThomlMFidlercxf  flam* 
mentuith,  condemned  for  felony,  but  still  so  honest  and  so  entirely 
beloved  by  long  Hany  VI.  after  his  decease,  that  he  aj^^earod  to  him 
cm  the  top  of  the  gallows,  encouraged  him,  and  00  cfaanned  the  rope, 
that  it  did  not  strangle  him.  (Ch.  Hist.  roL.  i.  p.  535.) 

Afterwards  we  meet  with  John  FuUer,  doctor  of  the  law«,  (a  better 
than  he,)  a  persecutor  in  queen  Mary's  days,  but  ^'  a  pitiful  man,"  as 
the  index  telleth  us. 

Here  we  have  Nichc^as  Fuller,  a  counsellor,  (the  best  of  the  three,) 
decrying  openly  the  authority  of  the  High  Commission,  and  thereby 
giving  "  a  legal  advantage  to  archbishop  Bancroft"  by  virhom  impri- 
soned ;  and  there  dying,  but  dying  with  '^  the  reputation  of  an  honest 


And  then  anotiier  Thomas  Fuller,  a  minister,  (the  best  of  all  ^e 
company,)  and  an  honest  man  too^  so  well  deserving  of  the  ohnrch, 

•  VsssTBSAir  **  Of  decayed  InteUtgence."  t  Stow's  '<  Surrey  of  Loadoa,"  page  9". 
1  In  this  paetage  the  pronoun  *Ut"  refers  to  Fuller's  name,  of  which  he  here  makes 
such  laudable  mention.  7^  bishop  who  is  intended,  and  who  at  that  time  fiouiiahed, 
seems  to  have  heen  Dr.  WilUam  Fuller,  (bom  in  London,)  then  mosi  ptobalAy  Ushop 
•leat  of  limerick,  who  was  translated  in  1667  to  Ihe  birfiopric  of  lincrin,  and  who 
by  some  writers  is  reputed  to  have  been  unde  to  our  anthor ; — the  dean^  Dr.  WilUain 
Fuller,  (bom  at  Hadleigh,  in  Suffolk,)  promoted  to  the  deanery  of  E^  in  1636,  and 
in  1645  to  that  of  Durham; — the  doctor  was  not  Fuller  himself,  but  one  of  his 
name  ; — the  two  Baehehre  ef  DMnU^  •weite  probably  him«elf  and  one  of  his  near  kin- 
dred $ — ^and  among  the  latter  might  also  be  some  of  4he  many  Meniere  of  Arie  to  whom 
he  refers. — Edit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHUaCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  X.      533 

Mad  all  goo4  churcbmeii,  (both  ^ve  afxi  dead»)  by  this  nQtiJd^ 
History,  as  not  to  doubt  of  the  like  faTour  at  their  hands  (shoidd 
tliere  b^  oceaaion)  as  Thomas  of  Hammersmith  received  ef  Ung  Hott 
VI, 

^^  I  am  credibly  informed,  from  a  good  hand,  how»  in  the  days  of 
king  James,  a  Scotchman  and  a  prevalent  courtier  had  swallowed  up 
tlie  whole  bishopric  of  Durham)  had  not  this  archbishop  seasonably 
interposed  his  power  vrith  the  king,  and  dashed  the  defiagn."  (Cb- 
Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  245.)     Credible  though  the  information  were,  yet  it 
yv^aa  not  true;  there  being  no  such  prevalent  courtier,  nor  no  such 
design.     It  is  true,  the  stomachs  of  the  Scots  were  sharp  set,  still  cry^ 
^8%  ^^  Clive,  give  !  *  but  never  satisfied ;  king  James  as  bountiful  and 
open-handed  towards  them  as  they  could  desire.     But  neither  were 
they  so  impudent  as  to  crave,  nor  the  king  so  impotent  as  to  give,  a 
whole  bishopric  at  once,  especialiy  so  rich  a  bishopric  as  this  of  Dur- 
ham.    But  the  truth  is,  that  George  Hume,  earl  of  Dunbar,  Lord 
Treasurer  of  Scotland,  and  highly  favoured  by  the  king,  having  pro- 
cured a  grant  of  all  the  batable  grounds,  as  they  then  called  them, 
upon  the  borders  of  both  kingdoms,  began  to  cast  his  eye  upon  Nor^ 
ham  Castle  and  the  lands  about  it,  belon^g  to  the  See  of  Durham, 
conceiving  it  a  fit  place  to  command  the  rest.    But  being  a  well-piin* 
cipled  man,  and  a  great  minister  of  that  king's  in  restoring  the  episco- 
pal government  to  the  church  of  Scotland,  he  acquainted  bishop  Ban- 
croft with  his  desires ;  who  knowing  what  great  use  might  be]  made 
of  him  for  the  good  of  this  church,  and  being  sure  enough  of  the  oon- 
sent  of  Dr.  Matthews,  then  bishop  of  Durham,  he  thus  ordered  the 
husiness:    whereas  the  revenue  of  Norham  Castle,  and  the  lands 
adjoining,  were  valued  at  one  hundred  twenty  poimdsi  per  antrum 
in  the  bishop's  rental,  it  was  agreed,  [[First,^  That  the  earl  should  pro- 
cure of  the  king  an  abatement  of  six  score  pounds  yearly  out  of  the 
annual  pension  of  a  thousand  pounds  which  had  been  laid  upon  that 
bishopric  by  queen  Elizabeth,  as  before  is  said.     Secondly.  That  he 
should  obtain  from  the  king,  for  the  said  Dr.  Matthews  and  his  suc- 
cessors, a  restitution  of  his  house  in  the  Strand  called  Duiiam-house^ 
with  the  gardens,  stables,  and  tenements  thereto  appertaining,  which 
had  been  alienated  from  that  bishopric  eter  since  the  dUsolying  pf  it 
by  kbg  Edward  VI,    Thirdly.  That,  in  consideration  hereof,  Jjijhop 
Matthews  should  make  a  grant  of  Norham  Castle,  and  the  countij 
adjoining,  in  fee-farm  to  the  king,  by  him  immediately  to  \tfi  coQveyed 
to  the  ear}  of  Dunbar.     And,  Fourthly,  that,  his  own  turn  being  thuf 
served,  the  said  earl  should  join  with  bishop  Bancrofit,  ai^d  his  friends, 
for  obtaining  from  the  king  an  Act  of  Parliament,  whereby  both  he 
and  his  successors  should  be  made  uncapaUe  of  any  the  lilfe  grants 
and  alienations  for  the  time  to  come ;  which  as  it  was  the  best  maricet 
that  ever  Toby  Matthews  was  at,  so  was  it  the  best  bargain  which  was 
eyer  driven  for  the  church  qf  England ;  so  far  from  '^  swallowing  up 
that  bishopric,"  that  it  was  the  only  means  to  save  that,  and  preserve 


Digitized  by 


Google 


534  APPEAL  OP  INJURED  INNOCETfTCE.  PART  II. 

the  rest.  And  yet  perhaps  ^the  credible  information"  which  our 
author  speaks  o^  might  not  relate  unto  the  bishopric,  but  the  deanecy 
of  Durham,  bestowed  bj  that  king  (bemg  then  not  well-studied  in 
the  composition  of  the  chnrch  of  England)  on  sir  Adam  Newton, 
*^a  courtier  preTalent*  enough,  as  having  been  tutor  to  prince  Heniy, 
the  king^s  eldest  son.  And  possible  it  is,  that  the  Scots  might  haye 
kept  it  in  their  hands  from  one  generation  to  another,  if  Dr.  Hunt 
(not  otherwise  to  be  remembered)  had  not  bought  him  out  of  it,  and 
put  himself  into  the  place. . 

Fuller. — Here  are  four  gradations  of  Fullers, — -goody  better^ 
besty  best  of  aU ;  which,  in .  the  language  of  jeering,  (speaking 
always  by  the  contraries,)  amounteth  unto  body  worse^  teorsty  worsi 
ofaU. 

As  for  the  first,  Thomas  Fuller,  I  answer :  First.  The  tale  is 
not  made,  but  related  by  me,  who  have  charged  my  maigin  with 
the  author  thereof,  Harpsfield,*  not  inconsiderable  for  learning  and 
religion  amongst  his  own  party.  Secondly.;  Not  the  least  credit 
is  given  thereunto  in  my  reporting  it,  matching  it  with  another 
miracle,  which  I  call' ^*  equally  true  ;^  that  is,  equeiUy  untrue^ 
in  the  interpretation  of  any  unpartial  reader.  Thirdly.  Seeing  I 
followed  Harpsfield  in  relating  his  miracles  in  other  places,  if  here 
I  should  have  deserted  him,  probably  it  would  have  been  by  others 
condemned  in  me  for  a  siMen  omission^  as  by  the  Animadvertor  for 
^  light  insertion^  because  Thomas  Fuller  was  my  namesake. 

The  good-nature  and  pitiftil  disposition  of  Dr.  John  Fuller 
plainly  appeareth  in  Mr.  Fox;  and  as  for  his  bounty  to  Jesus 
College  in  Cambridge,  I  leave  it  to  some  of  that  foundation  to  give 
testimony  thereof. 

As  for  the  third,  Nicholas  Fuliei",  be  it  reported  to  the  JESSEsf 
of  GrayVInn,  (I  mean  such  benchers  as  pass  amongst  them  for  old 
men,  and  can  distinctly  remember  him,)  whether  he  hath  not  left  a 
precious  and  perfumed  memory  behind  him,  of  one  pious  to  God, 
temperate  in  himself,  able  iu  his  profession,  moderate  in  his  fees,  care- 
ful for  his  client,  &ithful  to  his  friend,  hospitable  to  his  neighbour, 
pitiful  to  the  poor,  and  bountiful  to  Emmanuel  College  in  Cam- 
bridge ;  in  a  word,  blameless  in  all  things,  save  this  one  act  of 
indiscretion,  which  could  not  make  him  forfeit  the  reputation  of  his 
honesty,  especially  seeing  he  paid  dear  for  it,  and  died  in  durance. 
Thus,  though  Mr.  Stubbs  was  so  obnoxious  to  the  displeasure  of 
queen  Elizabeth,  that  his  right  hand  was  cut  off,  for  writing  a  libel 
against  hjBr  match  w^th  Monsieur ;  yet  Mr.  Camden  does  call  him 
tirumfamoe  integerrim(B,\ 

•  HiaU  Ecclesiastical  seculo  deckno-gwnto,  p.  64*6.  t  1  Sam.  atvii.  12^ 

J  In  Ua  "  BUzabeth,"  a»»o  1681. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THB  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  X;       535 

For  the  fourth  and  last,  I  will  make  the  Animadvertor  the  self- 
same answer  which  the  servants  of  Hezekiah  returned  to  Rab- 
shakeh :  "  But  they  held  their  peace,  and  answered  him  not  a 
word.''  (Isaiah  xxxvi.  21.)  ^ 

206 — 210.  Dr.  Hetlin. — ''And  as,  about  this  time,  some  per- 
chuice  oyerralued  the  Genera  notes,  out  of  that  especial  lore  they 
bare  to  the  authors  and  place  whence  it  proceeded ;  so,  on  the  other 
side,  some  without  cause  did  slight,  or  rather  without  charity  did  slan- 
der, the  same."  (Ch.  Hist.  Yol.  iii.  pp.  247,  248.)  I  trow,  our  author 
will  not  take  upon  him  to  condemn  all  those  who  approve  not  of 
the  Genevian  notes  upon  the  Bible,  or  to  appear  an  advocate  for 
them ;  though  he  tells  us,  not  many  lines  before,  that  "  they  were 
printed  thirty  times  over  with  the  general  liking  of  the  people." 

Fuller. — Had  I  said  "  two-and-thirty  times/'  though  past  the 
head  game,  I  had  not  been  out.  And  now  the  reader  shall  have 
my  full  and  free  sense  of  the  Genevian  notes.  I  remember  the 
proverb : — 

novXvfrodoff  K€(f)akj  an  yukv  Ktuchv  ey  dc  «eal  €cr0\6v,* 

"  In  head  of  Folypius  is  had 
What  is  good,  and  ^hat  is  bad.'' 

Such  a  mixture  is  in  these  notes,  wherein  the  most  [are]  pious 
and  proper  to  expound  their  respective  places ;  but  some  (and  those 
too  many,  though  never  so  few)  false,  factious,  dangerous,  yea, 
destructive  to  religion.  I  could  therefore  wish  some  godly  and  dis- 
creet persons  [were]  empowered  and  employed  to  purge  forth  the 
latttr,  that  the  rest,  may  remain  without  danger,  for  the  profit  of 
plain  people.  But  till  this  be  done,  I  am  (I  thank  God)  old 
enough  to  eat  fish,  feeding  on  the  flesh  thereof,  and  laying  by  the 
bones  on  my  trencher,  or  casting  them  down  to  the  dogs. 

Dr.  Heylin. — I  hope  he  will  not  condemn  all  those  who  approve 
not  those  notes ;  for  khig  James,  who,  in  the  Conference  at  H^mptpn- 
,  Court,  did,  First,  declare  that  of  all  the  translations  of  the  Sible  into 
the  English  tongue,  "  that  of  Geneva  was  the  worst ;"  and,  Secondly, 
that  the  notes  upon  it  were  ^'  partial,  untrue,  seditious,  and  savouring 
too  much  of  dangerous  and  traitorous  conceits."  For  proof  whereof 
his  majesty  instanced  in  two  places:  the  one  on  Exod.  L  19 ;  where 
disobedience  to  the  king  is  £jlowed  of:  the  other  in  2  Chrop.  viii. 
15, 16,  where  "  Asa  is  taxed  for  deposing  his  mother  only,  and  not 
killing  her : "  a  note,  whereof  the  Scottish  Presbyterians  made  special 
^e,  not  only  deposing  Mary  their  lawM  queen  from  the  regal  throne, 
hut  prosecuting  her  openly  and  underhand,  till  they  had  taken  away 
her  life.    These  instances  our  author,  in  his  summaiy  of  that  Confer-^ 


t  PLUTAKCdUS. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


536  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

enc6,  hath  pai»ed  orer  in  sflence,  as  loath  to  have  Bath,  blemislies 
appear  in  the  Gknevians,  or  their  Annotations ;  and  I  hope  abo  thtt 
he  will  not  advocate  for  the  rest. 

Fuller. — Down  with  these  bones  to  the  dogs  indeed  !  which 
alone  are  poper  for  their  palate.  The  Scots  are  oM  enongh; 
(being  reputed  by  historians  one  ef  the  most  ancient  nations  of 
Europe ;)  "  let  them  answer  for  themselves :  ^  though  (I  believe) 
they  cannot  answer  this  foul  &ct,  but  by  penitent  confessicm 
thereof.  But  whereas  the  Animadvertor  taxeth  me  for  wilfully 
omitting  those  iustances  of  king  James  in  favour  to  the  Genevians ; 
I  protest  my  integrity  therein.  It  was  only  because  1  would  have 
my  summary  a  summary, — no  abridgment  being  adequate  to  the 
narration  abridged  therein. 

Dr.  Heylin. — For  let  him  tell  me  what  he  thinks  of  that  on 
the  second  of  St.  Mathew's  Gospel,  verse  12;  namely,  "Promise 
ought,"  &c. 

Fuller. — Let  him  show  me  what  commission  he  hath  to 
inquire  into  my  thoughts.  However,  to  do  him  a  pleasure,  I  will 
tell  him  what  I  think  in  the  point. 

» 

Dr.  Hevlin.— -"  Promise,"  say  the  Genevians,  in  their  note,  Mat- 
thew ii.  12,  ^'  ought  not  to  be  kept  where  God's  honour  and  preaching 
of  his  truth  is  hindered,  or  else  it  ought  not  to  be  broken."  What  a 
wide  gap,  think  we,  doth  this  open  to  the  breach  of  all  promises, 
oaths,  covenants,  contracts,  and  agreements,  not  only  betwixt  man  and 
man,  but  between  kings  and  their  subjects  !  What  rebel  ever  took  up 
arms  without  some  pretences  of  that  nature?  '  What  tumults  and 
rebellions  have  been  raised  in  all  parts  of  Christendom,  in  England, 
Scotland,  Ireland,  France,  the  Netherlands,  Germany,  (and,  indeed, 
where  not  ?)  under  colour  that  "  God's  honour,  and  the  preaching  of 
the  truth,  is  hindered  ?  "  If  this  once  pass  for  good,  sound  doctrine, 
neither  the  king  nor  any  of  his  good  subjects,  in  what  realm  soever, 
can  live  in  safety.  "  God's  honour  and  the  preaching  of  his  truth  * 
are  two  such  pretences,  as  will  make  void  all  laws,  elude  all  oaths,  and 
thrust  out  all  covenants  and  agreements,  be  they  what  they  will. 

FuLLEE. — First.  I  behold  this  note  as  impertinent  to  that 
place ;  seeing  it  appears  not  in  the  text  that  those  wise  men  made 
Herod  any  promise  to  return  unto  him.  Secondly.  Had  they  made 
him  any  promise,  yea,  bound  it  with  an  oath  ht/  the  living  God^ 
such  an  oath  had  not  been  obligatory,  because  God  (to  whom  the 
forfeiture  was  due)  released  the  band  in  an  extraordinary  vision 
unto  them,  such  that  our  age  doth  not  produce. 

As  the  note  is  impertinent  in  that  place,  so  it  is  dangerous  at  all 
times ;  and  man's  corruption  may  take  thence  too  much  mis- 
chievous advantage,  which  is  partly  given,  because  so  perilous  a  pit 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  X.      587 

is  }eft  open,  (confntry  to  the  judicial  kw^  Exod.  xxi.  33>)  and  not 
covered  over  with  due  caution  requisite  thereunto.  I  concur  there- 
fore with  the  Animadvertor  in  the  just  dislike  thereof. 

Dr.  Hetlin. — ^Next  I  would  have  our  author  tell  me,  what  he 
tldnks  of  this  note,  on  the  ninth  of  the  Revelation,  verse  3,  where  the 
locusts  which  came  out  of  the  smoke  are  said  to  be  ^^  false  teaches, 
lieretics,  and  worldly  subtile  prelates,  with  monks,  friars,  cardinals, 
patriarchs,  archbishops,  bishops.  Doctors,   Bachelors,  and  Masters?" 
X>oe9  not  this  note,  apparently,  fasten  the  name  of "  locusts "  on  all 
ilie  clergy  of  this  realm ;  that  is  to  say,  archbishops,  bishops,  and  all 
such  as  are  graduated  in  the  University  by  the  name  of  Doctors, 
^Bachelors,  and  Masters  ?     And  doth  it  not  as  plainly  yoke  them  with 
friaFB,  monks,  and  cardinals,  principal  instruments  in  all  times  to 
advance  the  popedom?     I  know  the  words  which  follow  after  are 
alleged  by  some  to  take  off  the  envy  of  this  note,  namely,  "  who  for- 
sake Christ  to  maintain  false  doctrines."     But  the  enumeration  of  so 
many  particulars  makes  not  the  note  the  less  invidious,  the  said  expli- 
cation notwithstanding;   because  the  note  had  been  as  perfect  and 
significant,  had  it  gone  thus  in  generals  only,  that  is  to  say,  "  By 
locusts  here  are  meant  false  teachers,  heretics,  and  other  worldly,  sub- 
tile men,  that  seduced  the  people,  persuading  them  to  forsake  Christ, 
to  maintain  false  doctrines.**    But  the  Genevians,  who  account  arch- 
bishops and  bishops  to  be  limbs  of  the  pope,  resolved  to  join  them 
with  the  rest  of  his  members,  friars,  monks,  and  cardinals ;  and  our 
author,  being  a  great  favourer  of  the  Presbyterians,  must  not  take 
notice  of  this  scandal :  especially  considering  that  papacy  and  prelacy 
are  joined  together,  in  the  language  of  the  present  times,  and  therefore 
fit  to  go  together  in  this  annotation. 

"  In  this  Parliament  Dr.  Harsnet,  bishop  of  Chichester,  gave  offence 
in  a  sermon  preached  at  court,  pressing  the  word  Reddite  Coesari  quas 
sunt  CcBsaris^  as  if  all  that  was  levied  by  subsidies,  or  paid  by  custom 
to  the  Cro^Ti,  was  but  a  redditum  of  what  was  the  king's  before."  (Ch. 
Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  261.)  This  Parliament  is  placed  by  our  author  in  the 
year  1613 ;  but  that  Parliament,  in  the  sitting  whereof  bishop  Harsnet 
preached  the  sermon  above-mentioned,  was  held  'by  prorogation  in  the 
year  1609,  and  afterwards  dissolved  by  proclamation  in  December  of 
the  year  next  following.  Concerning  which  sermon  king  James  gives 
this  account  to  the  Lords  and  Commons  assembled  befbre  him  at 
Whitehall,  March  23rd  :— 

*'  And  therefore,"  saith  he,  **  that  reverend  bishop  here  amongst  you, 
though  I  hear  by  divers  he  was  mistaken,  or  not  well  understood,  yet 
did  he  preach  both  learnedly  and  truly  ancient  this  point  concerning 
the  power  of  a  king :  for  what  he  spake  of  a  king's  power  in  abstracto 
is  most  true  in  divinity ;  for  to  emperors  or  kings,  that  are  monarchs, 
their  subjects'  bodies  and  goods  are  due,  for  their  defence  and  mainte- 
nance.    But  if  I  had  been  in  his  place,  I  would  only  have  added  two 


Digitized  by 


Google 


538  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

words  which  would  have  cleared  all :  for  after  I  had  told  as  a  divine 
what  was  due  hy  the  subjects  to  their  kings  in  general,  I  would  then 
have  concluded  as  an  Englishman,  showing  this  people,  that,  as  in 
general  all  subjects  were  bound  to  rcdiere  their  king,  so  to  exhort  them 
that,  as  we  lived  in  a  settled  state  of  a  kingdom  that  was  governed  by 
his  own  fundamental  laws  and  orders,  that  according  thereunto  they 
were  now  (being  assembled  for  this  purpose  in  Parliament)  to  consider 
how  to  help  such  a  king  as  now  they  had,  and  that  according  to  the 
ancient  form  and  order  established  in  this  kingdom;  putting  so  a 
difference  between  the  general  power  of  a  king  in  divinity,  and  the 
settled  and  established  state  of  this  crown  and  kingdom :  and  I  am 
sure  that  the  bishop  meant  to  have  done  the  same,  if  he  had  not  been 
straitened  by  time,  which,  in  respect  of  the  greatness  of  the  present 
preaching  before  us,  and  such  an  auditory,  he  durst  not  presume  upon." 
So  that  the  doctrine  of  the  bishop  being  thus  justified  and  explained 
by  king  James,  and  the  Parliament  continuing  undissolved  till  Decem- 
ber following,  we  have  no  reason  to  believe  that  the  Parliament  was 
dissolved  upon  this  occasion ;  and  much  less  on  the  occasion  of  some 
words  spoken  in  that  Parliament  by  bishop  Neile  :  of  which  thus  our 
author : — 

"  Likewise  Dr.  Neile,  bishop  of  Rochester,  uttered  words  in  the 
House  of  Lords,  interpreted  to  the  disparagement  of  some  reputed 
;Eealous  patriot  in  the  House  of  Commons."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  261.) 
In  this  passage  I  have  many  things  to  except  against :  as,  1.  That  this 
patriot  is  not  named,  to  whose  disparagement  the  words  are  pretended 
to  be  uttered.     And,  2.  That  the  words  themselves  are  not  here  laid 
down,  and  yet  are  made  to  be  so  heinously  taken  that,  to  save  the 
bishop  from  the    storm  which  was  coming  towards   him,  the  king 
should  principally  be  occasioned  to  dissolve  that  Parliament.     3.  That 
Dr.  Neile  is  here  called  bishop  of  Rochester,  whom,  twice   before, 
(namely,  Idem^  pp.  255,  260,)  he  makes  to  be  bishop  of  Coventry  and 
Lichfield.     And,  4.  That  the  words  here  intimated  should  be  spoken 
in  Parliament,  anno  1613 ;  whereas,  by  giving  Dr.  Neile  the  title  of 
Rochester,  it  should  rather  be  referred  to  the  Parliament  holden  by 
prorogation  till  the  last  of  December,  anno  1610,  when  it  was  dis- 
solved ;  and  then  dissolved,  as  appears  by  the  king's  proclamation,  for 
not  supplying  his  necessities,   and  other    reasons  there   expressed, 
whereof  this  was  none. 

"Some  conceive,  that  in  revenge  Mr.  John  Selden  soon  after  set 
forth  his  book  of  tithes,  wherein  he  historically  proveth,  that  they 
were  payable  jure  humanoy  and  not  otherwise."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p. 
264.)  Whether  the  acting  of  the  comedy  called  Ignoramus  might 
move  Mr.  Selden  at  the  first  to  take  this  revenge,  I  inquire  not  here, 
though  it  be  probable  it  might ;  that  comedy  being  acted  before  king 
James,  anno  1614,  and  this  book  coming  out  about  two  years  after, 
anno  1616.  But  here  I  shall  observe,  in  the  first  place,  our  author's 
partiality,  in  telling  us  that  "  Mr.  Selden  in  that  book  hath  proved 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHUKCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  X.      539 

historically  that  tithes  are  payable  jure  humanoy  and  not  otherwise ; " 
^whereas,  indeed,  he  undertook  to  prove  that  point,  but  proved  it  not ; 
as  will  appear  to  any  which  have  read  the  answers  set  out  against  him. 
I  observe,  Secondly,  our  author  s  ignorance  in  the  book  itself,  teUing 
us,  within  few  lines  after,  that  "  the  first  part  of  it  is  a  mere  Jew,  of 
the  practice  of  tithing  amongst  the  Hebrews ;  the  second  a  Christian, 
and  chiefly  an  Englishman ; "  whereas,  indeed,  that  part  thereof  which 
precedes  the  manner  of  tithing  amongst  Christians,  hath  as  much  of 
the  Gentile  as  of  the  Jew,  as  much  time  spent  upon  examining  of  the 
tithes  paid  by  the  Greeks  and  Romans  as  was  in  that  amongst  the 
Hebrews.     Thirdly.  I  must  observe  the  prejudice  which  he  hath  put 
upon  the  cause,  by  telling  us  in  the  next  place,  that ''  though  many 
divines  undertook  the  answer  of  that  book,  yet  sure  it  is,  that  never  a 
fiercer  storm  fell  on  all  parsonage-bams  since  the  Reformation  than 
what  this  treatise  raised  *  up."     And  so  our  author  leaves  this  matter 
without  more  ado,  telling  us  of  the  church's  danger,  but  not  acquaint- 
ing us  at  all  with  her  deliverance  from  the  present  storm ;  neither  so 
yiolent,  nor  so  great,  nor  of  such  continuance,  as  to  blow  off  any  one 
tile,  or  to  blow  aside  so  much  as  one  load  of  com,  from  any  parson- 
age-bam in  England.     For  though  this  History  gave  some  country 
gentlemen  occasion  and  matter  of  discourse  against  paying  tithes, 
yet  it  gave  none  of  them  the  audaciousness  to  deny  the  payment ; 
so    safe   and  speedy  a  course  was  taken  to  prevent  the  mischief: 
which  since  our  author  hath   not  told   us,  (as,  had  he  played  the 
part  of  a  good  historian,  he  was  bound  to  do,)   I   will  do  it  for 
him  :— 

*'  No  sooner  was  the  church's  patrimony  thus  called  in  question,  but 
it  pleased  God  to  stir  up  some  industrious  and  learned  men  to  under- 
take the  answering  of  that  History,  which  at  the  first  made  so  much 
noise  amongst  the  people.  Dr.  TUlesIy,  archdeacon  of  Rochester,  first 
appeared  in  the  lists,  managing  that  part  of  the  controversy  which  our 
author  calls  *  a  Christian  and  an  Englishman,'  relating  to  old  chartu- 
laries  and  infeodations.  The  three  first  chapters  which  Dr.  Tillesly 
had  omitted,  concerning  the  payment  of  tithes  by  the  Jews  and  Gen- 
tiles, were  solidly,  but  very  smartly,  examined  and  confuted  by  Mr. 
Mountagu,  at  that  time  Fellow  of  Eaton  College,  and  afterwards  lord 
bishop  of  Chichester ;  as,  finally,  the  two  first  chapters  about  the  tith- 
ing of  the  Jews  were  learnedly  reviewed  by  Mr.  Nettles,  a  country 
minister,  but  excellently  well  skilled  in  Talmudical  leaming.  In 
which  encounters  the  Historian  was  so  galled  by  Tillesly,  so  gagged  by 
Mountagu,  and  stung  by  Nettles,  that  he  never  came  off  in  any  of  his 
undertakings  with  such  loss  of  credit.  In  the  preface  to  his  History, 
he  had  charged  the  clergy  with  '  ignorance  and  laziness ; '  upbraided 
them  with  having  nothing  to  keep  up  their  credit  but  beard,  habit,  and 
title ;  and  that  their  studies  reached  no  further  than  the  Breviary,  the 
Postils,  and  the  Polyanthea.  But  now  he  found,  by  these  encounters, 
that  some  of  '  the  ignorant  and  lazy  clergy  *  were  of  as  retired  studies 


Digitized  by 


Google 


540  APPEAI'  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

as  hiniflelf,  and  could  not  only  mmtcli,  Int  oyennatch,  him  too  ia  his 
own  philology. 

^  But  the  goremoTs  of  the  chnidi  went  a  shorter  way,  and,  not 
expecting  till  the  hook  was  answered  hy  particular  me^,  resolTed  to 
seek  for  reparation  of  the  wnMig  firom  the  author  himself,  upoA  an 
information  to  he  hrought  against  him  in  the  High  CommisBioB. 
Fearing  the  issue  of  the  husiness,  and  understanding  what  dicfpleasures 
were  conceiyed  against  him  by  the  king  and  the  church,  he  made  his 
personal  appearance  in  the  open  court  at  Lambeth  on  the  ^ight-and- 
twentieth  day  of  Januaiy,  anno  1618;  where,  in  the  presence  of 
George  lord  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  John  lord  bishop  of  London, 
Lancelot  lord  bishop  of  Winchester,  John  lord  bishop  of  Roche8t» ; 
sir  John  Benet,  sir  William  Bird,  sir  Gteoige  Newman,  Doctors  of  the 
Laws,  and  Thomas  Mothershed,  notaxy  and  register  of  that  oourt,  he 
tendered  his  submission  and  acknowledgment,  all  of  hU  own  hand* 
writing,  in  these  following  words  :-^ 

^  Mjf  good  lordsy  I  most  humbly  acknowledge  my  error  which  I 
have  committed  in  publishing  The  History  ^  Tithes^  and  especialltf 
in  that  I  have  at  all,  by  showing  any  interpretation  (tf  holy  Scrip- 
tvresy  by  meddling  with  Councilsy  Fathers^  or  Canons^  or  by  whatso- 
ever occurs  in  it^  offered  any  occasion  qf  argument  against  any  right 
of  maintenance  yoxe  divino  of  the  ministers  of  the  Gospel;  beseeching 
your  lordships  to  receive  this  ingenuous  and  humble  acknowledgment^ 
together  with  the  unfeigned  protestation  of  my  grief  for  that  through 
it  I  have  so  incurred  both  his  majesty's  and  your  lordships'  displea- 
sure  conceived  against  me  in  behalf  of  the  church  of  England. 

*  John  Sbldmn/ 

^  Which  his  submission  and  acknowledgment  being  received,  an4 
made  into  an  Act  of  Court,  was  entered  into  the  public  register^ 
thereof,  by  this  title  following;  viz.  Officium  Dominorum  contra 
Johannem  Selden  de  Inter,  Templo  London.     Armigerum." 

So  &r  our  author  should  hare  gone,  (had  he  played  the  part  of  a 
good  historian,)  but  that  he  does  his  work  by  halves  in  all  church-con- 
cernments. 

^'  James  Montague,  bishop  of  Winchester,  a  potent  courtier,  took 
exceptions  that  his  bishopric,  in  the  marshalling  of  them,  was 
wronged  in  the  method,  as  put  after  any  whose  bishop  is  a  privy 
counsellor."  (Ch.  Hist.  yqI.  iii.  p,  267,)  The  bishop  waa  too  wise  a 
man  to  take  this  (as  our  author  states  it)  for  a  sufficient  ground  of  the 
proceeding  against  Dr.  Mocket,  whp  had  then  newly  translated  into 
the  Latin  tongue  the  Liturgy  pf  the  church  of  England,  the  Thirty- 
nine  Articles,  the  Book  of  the  Ordinatipn  of  Bishops,  Priests,  and 
Deacons,  and  many  doctrinal  points  ej^tracted  out  of  the  Book  of 
Homilies i  all  which,  with  bishop  Jewel's  "Apology,"  Mr.  Newel's 
^'  Catechism,"  and  a  new  book  of  his  own  entituled,  PqUtia  Eqcksim 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  X.      541 

AngltcanaSj  he  had  ciiiised  to  be  pn&led  and  hotmd  up  together :  a 
book  )p?hich  might  have  been  of  great  honour  to  the  church  of  England 
amongst  £c»<eign  nations^  and  of  no  kat  use  and  esteem  at  home,  had 
thef e  not  been  somewhat  else  in  it  which  [more^  deserred  the  fire 
thaa  this  imaginarj  quaireL  For,  bj  tiie  Act  of  Parliament  31  Henry 
VIII.  c.  10,  the  precedency  of  the  bishops  is  thus  marshalled ;  that  is 
to  s^,  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  the  archbiAhop  of  York,  the 
bishop  of  London,  the  bishop  of  Durham,  the  bishop  of  Winchester,  the 
rest  according  to  the  order  of  their  consecrations ;  yet  so^  that  if  any  of 
ihem  were  Secretary  to  the  king,  he  should  take  place  of  all  those  other 
bishops  to  whom  otherwise,  by  the  order  of  his  consecration,  he  had 
been  to  give  it.  If  the  doctor  4jd  mistake  himself  in  this  particular, 
(as  indeed  he  did,)  the  fault  might  easily  hare  been  mended,  as  not 
deserving  to  be  expiated  by  so  sharp  a  punishment.  The  following 
readon  touching  his  derogating  from  the  king's  power  in  ecclesiastical 
matters,  and  adding  it  to  the  metropolitan  whose  serrant  and  chaplain 
he  was,  hath  more  reason  in  it,  (if  it  had  but  as  much  truth  as  reason,) 
nnd  00  hath  tiiat  ton<^ing  4^e  propositions  by  him  gathered  out  of  the 
Homilies,  which  were  ratiier  fraoned  according  to  his  own  judgment, 
tiion  squared  by  the  rules  of  the  chnzi^.  But  that  which  I  oonceiTe 
to  have  been  the  true  cause  why  the  book  was  burned,  was,  that,  in 
publishing  the  tw^tieth  Article  concerning  ^'  the  Authority  of  the 
Church,"  he  totally  left  out  the  first  clause  of  it ;  viz,  Hahet  ecclena 
ritus  sive  ceremonias  ttaiuendi  jus  et  in  controversiis  Jidei  authorila" 
tern.  By  means  whereof  the  Article  was  apparently  falsified,  the 
church's  authority  disavowed,  and  consequently  a  wide  gap  opened  to 
dispute  her  power,  in  all  her  Canons  and  determinations  of  what  sort 
soever.  And  possible  enough  it  is,  that  some  just  offence  might  be 
taken  at  him  for  making  the  fasting-^ays  appointed  in  the  Liturgy  of 
the  diurch  of  England  to  be  commanded  and  observed  ob  politicas 
solum  raiionesj  '^  for  politic  consid^ations  only,"  as  insinuated,  page 
366 ;  whereas  those  fs^ting-days  were  appoiivted  in  the  first  Liturgy  of 
king  Edward  VI.  anno  1549,  (with  reference  only  to  the  primitive 
institotiott  of  those  several  fksts,)  when  no  such  '^  politic  considera- 
tions "  were  so  much  iis  thought  of.  But,  whatsoever  was  the  true 
cause,  or  whether  there  were  more  than  one,  as  perhaps  there  was,  cer- 
tain lam  it  could  not  be  for  4eroga*ii^  any  thing  from  the  king's  power, 
and  ^  enkrging  that  of  the  ardibii^op  in  confinning  the  election  of 
bidM^ps,"  as  t^ta  autiior  tells  us.  For,  dunigh  the  doctor  doth  affirm  of 
the  metrot>olitans  ^  the  d&urch  of  England,  (page  308,  ut  tleciumes 
efiseoiporwm  sum  provincim  confirmeni^)  *'  that  it  belongs  to  them  to 
coi^nn  the  dieotions  of  the  bishops  of  their  veveral  provinces,"  and  for 
that  purpose  cites  the  Canon  of  4ihe  Council  of  Nice,  which  our  author 
jqpeaks  4k.;  yet  afterwards  he  dedares  expressly,  that  no  f  nch  confirma- 
tion is  or  can  be  made  by  the  metropolitans  without  the  king's  assent 
preceding :  Cujus  asserfsu  electi  comprobantury  comprobati  confirman- 
tur^  confirtnati  consecrantur ;  (page  313 ;)  which  very  fully  clears  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


542  APPEAL  OF  INJUREP  INNOCENCE.        PART  H. 

doctor  from  being  '^  a  better  chajJain  than  he  iras  a  sabject,"  as  oui 
dUthor  makes  him. 

Fuller. — It  was,  in  my  opinion,  both  indiscreetly  and  unchari- 
tably done,  to  jumble  them  together,  being  of  so  different  (not  to 
say  contrary)  originations.  Sore  I  am,  thoagh  they  are  pleased  to 
match  them  by  force,  yet  the  parties  were  never  agreed. 

They  might  as  well  have  added  *'  superintendents,  lecturers, 
assistants,  and  whole  classes  ;^  seeing  all  such,  if  vicious  in  life,  or 
heretical  in  doctrine,  (notwithstanding  their  reformed  names,)  are 
locusts,  as  well  (that  is,  as  iU)  as  any  of  the  other. 

But  let  lis  return  to  those  my  words  which  first  gave  the  first 
occasion  to  these  four  last  Animadv^ions  : — 

'*  And  as,  about  this  time,  some  perchance  overvalued  the 
Geneva  notes,  out  of  the  especial  love  they  bare  to  the  authors  and 
place  whence  they  proceeded ;  so,  on  the  other  side,  some  without 
cause  did  slight,  or  rather  without  charity  did  slander,  the  same. 
For  in  this  or  the  next  year,  a  Doctor,  in  solemn  assembly  in  the 
University  of  Oxford,  publicly  in  his  sermon  at  St.  Mary's  accused 
them  as  guilty  of  misinterpretation  touching  the  Divinity  of  Christ, 
and  his  Messiahship,  as  if  symbolizing  with  Arians  and  Jews 
against  them  both.  For  which  he  was  afterwards  suspended  by 
Dr.  Robert  Abbot,  propter  condones  publicas  miniis  orihodoxas  et 
offmsionis  plenasr  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  pp.  247,  248.)* 

Fain  would  I  know.  First,  whether  these  my  words  import  my 
inclination  to  defend  all  in  the  Geneva  notes. 

Secondly.  Though  I  neither  can  nor  will  (as  by  the  premisses 
doth  appear)  excuse  all  passages  in  them,  I  am  confident  that 
neither  the  Animadvertor,  nor  all  "  those  of  all  degrees  and  quali- 
ties in  both  Universities  ^^  urging  him  to  write  against  me,  are  able 
to  find  out  any  Arianism  or  Anti-Messianism  in  those  notes.  And 
therefore,  as  an  Historian,  I  was  bound  to  take  notice  of  the  fault 
and  censure  of  that  Doctor,  only  expressed  in  the  margin  by  the 
initial  letter  of  his  sirname.     Our  author  goeth  on  :— - 

211 — ^313.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^'  At  this  time  began  the  troubles  in  the 
Low-Countries  about  matters  of  religion,  heightened  between  two 
opposite  parties, — ^Remonstrants,  and  Contra-Itemonstrants ;  their 
controversies  being  chiefly  reducible  to  five  points,"  &c.  (Ch.  Hist 
vol.  iii.  p.  274.)  Not  at  this  time,  namely,  1618,  which  our  author 
speaks  of,  but  some  years  before.  They  were  now  come  unto  their 
height,  and  had  divided  the  whole  body  of  the  United  Belgic  Pro- 
vinces into  two  great  factions :  That  of  the  Remonstrants,  (whom  in 

•  In  the   margin   [occurs]   this  note  :    "Dr.   H.   in  Oxford  canselessly  inveigheth 
against  the  Geneva  notes." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  X.      543 

f  epToach  they  call  their  Minions^  J  being  headed  by  John  Olden-Bar- 
nevelt,  a  principal  Counsellor  of  State  and  of  great  authority  in  his 
country :  The  other,  of  the  Calyinists  or  Contra-Remonstrants,  being 
managed  by  Maurice  prince  of  Orange,  the  chief  commander  of  the 
forces  of  the  States  United  both  by  sea  and  land.  But  the  troubles 
and  divisions  were  now  come  to  their  fiill  growth;  they  "began" 
many  years  before,  occasioned  by  a  Remonstrance  exhibited  to  the 
States  of  Holland  by  the  followers  of  Dr.  James  Harmin,  who  liked 
better  the  Melancthonian  way  than  that  of  Calyin,  anno  1610;  and 
that  Remonstrance  counterbalanced  by  a  Contra-Remonstrance  made 
by  such  diyines  who  were  better  pleased  with  Calvin's  doctrine  in  the 
deep  speculations  of  Predestination,  Grace,  Free-will,  &c.  than  with 
that  of  Melancthon.  Hence  grew  the  names  of  Remonstrants  and 
Contra-Remonstrants,  occurring  frequently  in  the  writings  on  both 
sides,  till  the  Remonstrants  were  condemned  in  the  Synod  of  Dort, 
and  either  forced  to  yield  the  cause  or  quit  their  country.  Each  party 
in  the  mean  time  had  the  opportunity  to  disperse  their  doctrines,  in 
which  the  Remonstrants  gained  exceedingly  upon  their  adrersaries, 
especially  after  they  had  been  admitted  to  a  public  Conference  at  the 
Hague,  anno  1611 ;  in  which' they  were  conceived  to  have  had  much 
the  better  of  the  day,  and  so  continued  in  increase  of  their  power  and 
credit,  till  the  quarrels  and  animosities  between  the  prince  and  Barne- 
velt  put  a  full  period  to  the  business  by  the  death  of  the  one,  and  the 
authority  of  the  other. 

"  Hereby  the  equal  reader  may  judge  how  candidly  Mr.  Mountagu, 
in  his  '  Appeal,'  dealeth  with  our  divines,  charging  them,  that  the  dis- 
cipline of  the  church  of  England  is  in  this  Synod  held  unlawful.  And 
again.  The  Synod  of  Dort  in  some  points  condemneth,  upon  the  by, 
even  the  discipline  of  the  church  of  England."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p. 
280.)  Assuredly  Mr.  Mountagu  deals  very  candidly  with  our  divines, 
professing  that  "  he  doth  reverence  them  for  their  places,  worth,  and 
learning ; "  *  though  not  obliged  (as  he  conceived)  to  all  or  any  of  the 
conclusions  of  the  Synod  at  Dort.  And  he  might  very  well  declare, 
as  indeed  he  doth,  that ''  the  discipline  of  the  church  of  England,  in 
that  and  other  Dutch  Synods,  was  held  unlawful,"  and  by  them  "  con- 
demned upon  the  by."  For,  whereas  in  the  Confession  of  the  Belgic 
churches,  ratified  and  confirmed  in  the  Synod  of  Dort,  it  is  declared 
and  maintained,  that  all  ministers  are  by  the  word  of  God  of  equal 
power ;  it  must  needs  follow  thereupon,  that  the  superiority  of  bishops 
over  other  ministers  is  against  God's  word:  Quantum  verd  attinet 
divini  verhi  ministros^  ubicunque  locorum  sinty  eandem  illi  potestatem 
et  autkoritatem  hahent^  ut  qui  omnes  sint  Ckristi  unici  illtus  episcopi 
universalisy  unicique  capitis  ecclesice  ministri,^  These  are  the  words 
of  that  Confession,  as  it  stands  ratified  and  recorded  in  the  Acts  of  the 
Synod  of  Dort,  as  before  was  said.     In  which  and  by  which  if  the 

•  JppeUo  Ctesaremy  cap.  vii.  p.  69.  t  Confess.  Belg.  art.  31. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQJC 


544  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.        PART  II. 

ducipline  of  the  church  of  £ii^and  be  not  made  nnlawf  nl  in  ierminu 
ierminantibui^  as  thej  me  to  saj ;  I  am  sore  it  it  eondanned  ^^  upoB 
the  by,"  which  is  as  mach  as  Mr.  Moantaga  had  affirmed  of  it.  Afld 
howsoever  I>r.  CSarleton,  then  bishc^  of  Landaff,  as  well  to  yindicate 
his  own  dignity,  as  the  honour  of  the  chui^  of  Es^laad,  tendered  his 
protestation  of  that  Synod  in  behalf  of  episoopaey ;  yet  was  it  made  to 
signify  notiung,  nor  so  mtich  as  honoured  with  ask  amnrer ;  our  author 
noting  at  the  &ii  of  tiiis  protestation,  Britannornm  imterpelUiti&ni 
responsum  ne  gru  quidem  s  namely,  ^'  To  this  inteqpel]ati<Mi  of  ^e 
British  divines,  nothing  at  all  was  answered."  There  might  be  some 
wrong  done  to  our  divines  by  the  rest  of  that  Synod ;  hot  no  wrong 
done  by  Mr.  Mountagu,  neither  to  our  divines  nor  unto  that  Synod. 

*'  Now  whilst,  in  common  discourse,  some  made  this  judge,  others 
that  Serjeant,  lord  Chancellor,  king  James  made  Br.  Williams,  lately 
(and  st^)  dean  of  Westminster,  and  soon  aflter  bishop  of  Unoohi." 
(Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  290.)  In  this  and  the  rest  which  &Ilows  touch* 
ing  the  advancement  of  Dr.  Williams  to  the  place  and  dignily  of  Lord 
Keeper,  there  are  three  things  to  be  observed. 

FuLtEE.— A  causeless  cavil.  I  said  not  absdutely,  "  They 
now  began,''  but  "  Now  they  began  heightened.''  The  Animadver- 
tor  knows  full  well  that  such  participles  equivale  infinitives^ 

In  Greek. — E^pUi^  Iv  yota-rpt  tx^vcot,  pro  ix^tv^  Matt.  i.  IB. 

In  Latin. — Sermt  medios  delapms  in  hostes,  pro  delapmm  te^  esse. 
ViBG.  ^nM.  2. 1.  377. 

"  The  troubles  in  the  Low-Countries  began  heightened,"  that  is, 
to  be  heightened.  The  distemper  was  bred  some  years  before,  wludi 
now  oame  to  the  paroxysm  thereof,  namely,  anno  1618. 

214.  Dr.  Heylin. — And,  First,  it  is  to  be  observed,  that  though 
he  was  then  dean  of  Westminster  when  the  custody  of  the  Great  Seal 
was  committed  to  him ;  yet  was  he  not  then  and  still  dean  of  that 
church ;  that  is  to  say,  not  dean  thereof  at  such  time  as  our  author  writ 
this  part  of  the  History :  for,  speaking  of  Dr.  Hall's  return  from  the 
Synod  of  Dort,^anno  1618,  he  adds,  that  ^'  he  continued  in  health  till 
this  day,  thirty-three  years  after,"  (Ch.  Hist.  Vol.  iii.  p.  278,)  which 
falls  into  the  year  16.^1.  And,  certainly,  at  that  time  Dr.  Williams 
(then  archbishop  of  York)  was  not  dean  of  Westminster ;  that  place 
having  been  bestowed  by  his  majesty  upon  Dr.  Steward,  clerk  of  the 
closet,  anno  1645,  being  fiill  six  years  before  the  time  which  our 
author  speaks  of. 

Fuller* — This  I  have  learned  from  the  Animadvertoc,  which  I 
knew  not  before ;  and  I  thank  him  for  it.  The  great  distance  of 
Exeter  (where  I  lived)  from  Oxford,  may  partly  excuse  my  igno- 
rance therein  ;  who  always  beheld  arehUshop  Williams  as  the  last 
dean  of  Westminster :  as  indeed  he  was  the  last  that  ever  was 
installed  therein.      And  Dr.   Steward  never  lived  minute  in,  or 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  tHE  CHURCH  HISTORY,  BOOK  X.       545 

^ined  &rthing  from,  his  deanship.     So  umbratile  a  dignity  is  not 
Tv^orth  the  contending  for. 

215.  Dr.  Heylin^— Secondly.  Whereas  our  author  tells  us,  that 
the  place  was  '^  proper  not  for  ike  plain  but  guarded  gown ; "  I  would 
£Edn  know  how  it  should  be  more  proper  ^'for  the  guarded  gown"  than 
it  was  for  the  '^  plain."  There  was  a  time  when  the  Chancellors  (as 
our  author  telleth  us  elsewhere)  were  always  bishops ;  and  from  that 
time  till  the  fall  of  cardinal  Wolsey,  that  office  continued  for  the  most 
part  in  the  hands  of  the  prelates :  at  what  time,  that  great  office  was 
dischaiged  with  such  a  general  contentment,  that  people  found  more 
expedition  in  their  suits,  and  more  ease  to  their  purses,  than  of  later 
times.  By  which  it  seems,  that  men  who  ^'  are  never  bred  to  know  ' 
the  true  grounds  and  reasons  of  the  Common  Law,"  might  and  could 
imfigate  the  rigour  of  it  in  such  difficult  cases  as  were  brought  before 
them ;  the  Chancery  not  haying  in  those  days  such  a  mixture  of  law  as 
now  it  hath,  nor  being  so  tied  up  to  such  intricate  rules  as  now  it  is. 

Fuller.— I  have  nothing  to  return  in  opposition  to  the  Ani- 
madvertof)  in  his  endeavouring -to  make  a  clergyman  proper  to  be 
Lord  Chancellor  of  England,  "as  well  qualified  as  any  Common- 
Liawyer  for  the  place."  Nor  if  I  could,  would  I  disprove  what 
teiideth  to  the  honour  of  my  profession.  The  little  toe  is  advanced 
when  the  head  is  crowned,  aa  a  member  of  the  same  body  ;  and  my 
meanness  is  sensible  of  some  honour^  that  any  of  my  calling  are  put 
in  a  capacity  of  so  high  a  preferment.  Only  I  request,  that  if  the 
Animadvertor  be  advanced  to  the  place,  and  if  I  have  a  cause 
brought  before  him,  that  he  would  be  pleased  to  hear  it  cum  omni 
yhvore^  on  this  consideration, — that  he  put  me  to  much  trouble  in 
answering  his  causeless  cavils  against  my  Church-History. 

Give  me  leave  to  add,  that  I  suspect  the  Common-Lawyets  will 
take  advantage  from  the  last  words  of  the  Animadvertor,  confessing 
the  Court  of  Chancery  now  more  intricated  and  mingled  with  law 
than  in  former  ages.  Hence  I  fear  they  will  infer,  that  clergymen 
(though  they  were  heretofore)  will  not  hereafter  be  so  able  and  fit 
to  discharge  that  office.     But  let  us  proceed :—  ' 

216.  Dr.  HbyLIn. — But,  Thirdly,  whereas  ottr  author  in  advocating 
for  tl^  Common-Lawyers,  prescribeth  for  them,  a  succession  of  six 
descents,  he  hath  therein  confuted  himself,  and  saved  me  the  trouble 
of  an  Animadversion,  by  a  marginal  note ;  in  which  he  telleth  us,  that 
*•  sir  Christopher  Hatton  was  not  bred  a  lawyer."  If  so,  then  neither 
was  the  title  so  strong,  nor  the  prescription  so  well-grounded  as  out 
author  makes  it ;  the  interposition  of  sir  Christopher  Hatton  between 
sir  Thomas  Bromley  and  sir  John  Puckering  restraining  it  to,  three 
descents,  and  but  thirty  years ;  which  is  too  short  a  time  for  a  pre« 
scription  to  be  built  upon. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


546  APPEAL  OP  INJURSD  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

FutLBR.— I  preBcribe  not  for  the  Common-Lawyers;  whose 
words  are,  "The  Common-Lawyers^  (and  those,  I  assure  yoa, 
knowing  enough  in  this  their  own  art)  ^^  prescribed  for  six  descents."* 
The  marginal  note  was  entered  by  me,  a  Uttle  to  check,  for  (say 
they)  it  doth  not  confute,  their  prescription;  alleging  that  sir 
Christopher  Hatton,  thongh  not  bred  so  professed  a  lawyer  as  to  be 
called  to  the  bar,  was  admitted  in  one  of  the  Inns  of  Court,  and 
wore  no  " plain **  but  "a  guarded  gown''  in  Westminster-Hall,  as 
some  still  alive  do  remember.  Our  author  telleth  us  how  Marcus 
Antonius  de  Dominis — 

2179  218.  Dr.  Hetlin.-— ^^  He  had  fomieen  years  been  archbishop 
of  Spalato,  See,  Conscience  in  show,  and  ooyetousness  in  deed,  caused 
his  coming  hither."  (Ch.  Hist.  toL  iii.  p.  296.)  This  is  a  Teiy  hard 
sajring,  a  censore  which  intrenches  too  much  upon  the  piiTil^es  of 
Almighty  Qod,  who  alone  knows  the  secrets  of  the  heart  of  man. 
Interest  tenebrii^  interest  cogitatianibus  nostris^  quasi  alteris  tenehrisj 
as  Minutius  hath  it. 

FuLLER.-*-If  my  saying  intrracheth  on  Divine  privileges,  I  shall 
crave  pardon  from  that  God  who  will  more  freely  forgive  me,  than 
the  Animadvertor  would,  had  I  offended  him.  Besides^  it  is  no 
encroachment  on  the  prerogative  of  the  Crown  of  Heiiyen,  to  cen- 
sure the  secrets  of  men's  hearts,  when  made  visible  to  the  world  in 
their  actions ;  and  though  the  thoughts  of  this  prelate  were  written 
in  secret  chamcters,  yet  are  they  easily  read,  as  deciphered  by  the 
key  of  his  ensuing  deeds,  who  left  the  print  of  his  covetous  claws  in 
all  places  where  he  got  English  preferment. 

Dr.  Heylik. — ^The  man  here  mentioned  had  been,  in  the  confession 
of  our  author  himself,  archbishop  of  Spalato  in  Dalmatia,  a  dignity  of 
great  power  and  reputation,  and  consequently  of  a  fair  revenue  in 
proportion  to  it. 

Fuller. — I  believe  no  less ;  but  far  short  of  our  English 
bishoprics.  It  may  be  said  of  Italian  dignities,  (to  which  Dalma- 
tian may  be  reduced,  as  under  the  Venetian  Commonwealth,)  that 
generally  they  have  high  racks,  but  bad  mangers,  as  being  set  too 
thick  to  burnish  about  in  much  breadth  and  wealth.  The  intrado 
of  the  archbishopric  of  Spalato  consisteth  partly  in  his  jurisdiction, 
the  exercise  whereof  is  much  obstructed;  partly  in  lands,  the 
revenues  whereof  are  more  impaired  by  the  vicinity  of  the  Turk, 
harassing  those  parts  with  his  daily  intrusion.  Mercator*  tells  us, 
that  the  port  of  Salona  (which  is  hardly  an  English  mile  from 
Spalato)  nunc  quidem  partem  colitar  ob  Turcarum  viciniam, 

A  judicious  writer,-f-  valuing  his  archbishopric,  (as  it  seemeth,  to 

•  Atlas,  p.  334.  f  !>»•  Crakbnthorp,  in  De/ensione  Eccles.  jingtic.pag,  3. 


Digitized  by 


L^oogle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THB  CHURCH  HISTORY,  BOOK  X.     §47 

advantage,)  estimatetb  it  annually  at  three  thonsftnd  crowns,  wliich 
ikUeth  a  fourth  part  short  of  a  thousand  pounds  sterling,  a  sum 
exceeded  in  most  of  our  middling  bishoprics :  besides,  ihe  arch- 
bishopric of  gpalato  was  clogged  and  encumbered  with  a  pension  of 
five  hundred  crowns,  (the  sixth  part  of  his  revenues,)  payable, 
(with  the  arrears,)  by  the  pope's  command,  to  one  Andrutius, 
The  payment  of  which  sixth  part  went  as  much  against  Spalato's 
stomach,  as  the  payment  of  the  fifths  now-a-days  doth  from  the 
present  possessors  to  sequestered  ministers. 

Dr.  Hbymn, — He  could  not  hope  to  mend  his  fortunes  by  his 

coming  hither,  or  to  advance  himself  to  a  more  liberal  entertainment 

in  the  church  of  England,  than  what  he  had  attained  unto  in  the 

church  of  Rome.    Covetousness,  therefore,  could  not  be  the  motive  for 

leaving  his  own  estate,  of  which  he  had  been  possessed  fourteen  years 

in  our  author's  reckoning,  to  betake  himself  to  a  strange  country, 

where  he  could  promise  himself  nothing  but  protection  and  the  free- 

dom  of  conscience.     Our  author  might  have  said,  with  more  probability, 

that  covetousness,  and  not  oonscience,  was  the  cause  of  his  going 

hence ;  no  bait  of  profit  or  preferment  being  laid  before  him  to  invite 

him  hither,  as  they  were  both,  by  those  which  had  the  managing  of 

that  design,  to  allure  him  hence.     He  had  given  great  trouble  to  the 

pope  by  his  defection  from  that  church,  and  iio  small  coimtenance  to 

the  doctrine  of  the  protestant  churches  by  his  coming  over  unto  ours. 

The  foundering  of  so  great  a  pillar  seemed  to  prognosticate,  that  the 

fabric  of  that  church  was  not  like  to  stanfl.    And  yet  he  gave  greater 

blows  to  them  by  his  pen,  than  by  the  defection  of  his  person ;  his 

learned  books  entituled  De  Republicd  Ecclesiasticdy  being  still  unan^ 

swered.    In  which  respect,  those  of  that  church  bestirred  themselves 

to  disgrace  his  person,  devising  many  other  causes  by  which  he  might 

be  moved  or  forced  to  forsake  those  parts  in  which  he  durst  no  longer 

tarry.    But  finding  little  credit  given  to  their  libellous  pamphlets,  they 

began  to  work  upon  him  by  more  secret  practices :  insinuating,  that 

he  had  neither  that  respect  nor  those  advancements  which  might 

encourage  him  to  stay;  that  the  new  pop^,  Gregory  XV.,  was  his 

special  friend ;  that  he  might  choose  his  own  preferments,  and  make 

his  own  conditions,  if  he  would  return.     And  on  the  other  side,  they 

cunningly  wrought  him  out  of  credit  with  king  James  by  the  arts  of 

Gondomar ;  and  lessened  his  esteem  amongst  the  clergy  by  some  othes 

artifices :  so  that  the  poor  man,  being  in  a  manner  lost  on  both  sides, 

was  forced  to  a  necessity  of  swallowing  that  accursed  bait  by  which  he 

was  booked  over  to  his  own  destruction.    For  which  and  for  the  rest 

of  the  story,  the  reader  may  repair  for  satisfaction  to  this  present 

History. 

"  Besides,  the  king  would  never  bestow  an  episcopal  charge  in  Eng- 
land on  a  foreigner ;  no,  not  on  his  own  countrymen  the  Scots."  (Ch* 

2  N  2 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ  l€ 


548  APPEAL  OF  INJUREDINNOCENCK:"''  part  II. 

Hi»t.  ToL  iii.  p.  300.)  This  must  be  understood  indi  reference  to  the 
church  of  England,  king  James  bestowing  many  bishoprics  upon  his 
countrymen  the  Soots,  in  the  realm  of  Ireknd.  And  if  he  did  not  the 
like  here,  (as  indeed  he  did  not,)  it  neither  was  for  want  of  afiectioa 
to  them,  nor  of  confidence  in  them ;  but  because  he  would  not  put 
any  such  discouragement  upon  the  English,  who  looked  on  those  pre- 
ferments as  the  greatest  and  most  honourable  rewards  of  arts  aad 
industiy.     Quis  enim  virtutem  exquireret  ipsam,  prcemia  si  tollas  ? 

Fuller.— Dark  men  are  the  best  comment  upon  themselves, 
whose  precedent  are  best  expounded  by  their  subsequent  actions. 
Whoso  considereth  the  rapacity  and  tenacity  of  this  prelate  in 
England,  will  easily  believe  that  a  two-handed  covetousness  moved 
him  to  leave  his  native  country  and  come  over  hither  : — One  to 
save,  the  other  to  gain  :  To  save ;  that  is,  to  evade  the  payment  of 
the  aforesaid  pension,  with  the  arrears  thereof :  To  gain ;  promising 
himself,  as  by  the  future  will  appear,  not  only  protection,  but  pre- 
ferment ;  not  only  safety,  but  more  plenty,  by  coming  hither.  He 
had  learning  enough  to  deserve,  ambition  enough  to  desire,  boldness 
enough  to  beg,  and  presumed  king  James  had  bounty  enough  to 
give,  him  the  highest  and  best  preferment  in  England;  and  he 
who  publicly  did  -beg  York,  may  be  presumed  privately  to  have 
promised  the  archbishopric  of  Canterbury  to  himself. 

219.  Dr.  Heylin. — "  All  men's  mouths  were  now  filled  with  dis- 
course of  prince  Charles's  match  with  Donna  Maria,  the  infanta  of 
Spain.  The  protestants  grieved  thereat,  fearing  that  this  marriage 
would  be  the  funerals  of  their  religion,"  &c.  (Ch.  Hist.  toI.  iii.  p. 
306.)  The  business  of  the  match  with  Spain  hath  already  sufiiciently 
been  agitated,  between  the  author  of  '^  the  History  of  the  Beign  of  King 
Charles "  and  his  Observafor :  and  yet  I  must  add  something  to  let 
our  author  and  his  reader  to  understand  thus  much,  that  the  protest- 
ants had  no  cause  to  fear  such  a  funeral. 

Fuller. — Had  I  said,  that  "  the  protestants  justly  feared  this 
marriage,^  then  the  Animadvertor  had  justly  censured ;  whereas 
now,  grant  they  feared  where  no  fear  was,  he  findeth  fault  where  no 
fault  is.  Historians  may  and  must  relate  those  great  and  general 
impressions  which  are  made  on  the  spirits  of  people,  and  are  not 
bound  to  justify  the  causes  thereof  to  be  sound  and  sufficient. 
Ten  thousand  persons  of  quality  are  still  alive,  who  can  and  will 
attest,  that  a  panic  fear  for  that  match  invaded  the  nation. 

Dr.  Hbylin. — ^They  knew  they  lived  under  such  a  king  who  loved 
his  sovereignty  too  well  to  quit  any  part  thereof  to  the  pope  of  Borne ; 
especially  to  part  with  that  supremacy  in  ecclesiastical  matters  which 
he  esteemed  the  fairest  flower  in  the  royal  garland.  They  knew  they 
lived  under  such  a  king,  whose  interest  it  was  to  preserve  religion  in 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  X.       549 
* 
the  same  state  in  which  he  found  it ;  and  could  not  fear  but  that  he 
-would  sufficiently  provide  for  the  safety  of  it. 

FuLLEB.r — Mr.  Camden,  writing  of  the  match  of  queen  Eliza- 
beth with  Monsieur,  younger  brother  to  the  king  of  France,  bath 
this  presage, — that  when  Mr.  Stubs,  whose  hand  was  cut  off,  said, 
*' God  save  the  queen!"  the  multitude  standing  by  held  their 
peace,  rendering  this  as  one  reason  thereof:  Ew  odio  nuptiarum^ 
quas  rdiffione  exitiosas  /itturas  prc^sa^ffierunt,  "  Out  of  hatred  to 
that  match,  which  they  presaged  would  be  destructive  to  religion.*'* 

Now,  may  not  the  Animadvertor  as  well  tax  Mr.  Camden  for 
inserting  this  needless  note,  and  tell  the  world,  that  no  princess 
was  more  skilled  in  queen-craft  than  queen  Elizabeth,  and  that  this 
presage  of  her  people  was  falsely  founded  ?  I  detract  not  from  the 
policy  or  piety,  head  or  heart  of  king  James ;  but  this  I  say,  Let 
sovereigns  be  never  so  good,  their  subjects  under  them  will  have 
their  own  joys,  griefs,  loves,  hatreds,  hopes,  fears ;  sometimes 
catised^  sometimes  oavseless ;  and  historians  have  an  equal  commis^ 
sion  to  report  both  to  posterity. 

Dr.  Hetlix. — If  any  protestants  feared  the  funeral  of  their  reli* 
gion,  they  were  such  protestants  as  had  been  ''  frighted  out  of  their 
.wits,"  as  you  know  who  used  to  call  tha  Puritans ; .  or  such  who,  under 
the  name  of  protestants,  had  contrived  themselves  into  a  faction  not 
only  against  episcopacy,  but  even  monarchy  also. 

Fuller. — I  profess  I  know  not  who  used  to  call  Puritans 
''Protestants  frighted  out  of  their  wits:"  whoever  it  was,  it  was 
not  Michael  the  archangel,  who  would  not  rail  on  the  devil. 

By  Peotestants,  I  mean  "Protestants  indeed;^  or,  if  you 
will  rather  have  it,  "  Christians  sound  in  their  judgment,  uncon- 
trived  into  any  faction ;"  so  far  from  being  anti-episcopal,  that 
some  of  them  were  members  of  the  hierarchy ;  and  so  far  from 
destroying  monarchy,  that,  since,  they  endeavoured  the  preservation 
thereof  with  the  destruction  of  their  own  estates. 

As  worthy  Dr.  Hackwell,  archdeacon  of  Surrey,  was  outed  his 
chaplain's  place,  for  his  opposing  the  match  when  first  tendered  to 
prince  Henry  ;  so  many  (qualified  as  aforesaid)  concurred  with  his 
judgment,  in  the  resumption  of  the  match  with  king  Charles ;  not- 
withstanding they  were  justly  and  fully  possessed  of  the  integrity  and 
ability  of  king  James.  Their  seriously  considering  the  zeal  of  the 
Spanish  to  promote  popery ;  the  activity  of  the  Romish  priests  to 
gain  proselytes ;  their  dexterous  sinisterity  in  seducing  souls ;  the 
negligence  of  too  many  English  ministers  in  feeding  their  flocks ; 
the  plausibility  of  popery  to  vulgar  judgments ;  the  lusciousness 
thereof  to  the  palate  of  flesh  and  blood;  the  fickleness  of  ou^. 

•  Camden's  **  Elizabeth,"  anno  IdBlypoff.  346. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


550  APPEAL  OF  INJURBO  INNOCXNCS.  PART  II. 


I 


English  nation  to  embmce  novelties ;  the  wayering  of  many  m|ei> 
tied  minds;  the  subtilty  of  Satan  to  advance  any  mischieTous 
design  ;  the  justice  of  Ood  to  leave  a  sinful  nation  to  the  spiiii 
delusion ;— [they]  feared  (whether  justly  or  no,  let  the  reader  judge) 
that  the  Spanish  match,  (as  represented,)  attended  with  a  tolm- 
tion,  might  prove  fatal  to  the  protestant  religion. 


Dr.  HETLnr^^And  to  Aem  Paritana  noUdi^  was  mult  lo^ 

than  the  matoh  with  Spain,  fearing,  (and  perhaps  jtisfly  feanfig,)  ^ 
the  king's  alliance  with  that  crown  might  arm  him  both  with  power 
and  counsel  to  suppress  those  practices  which  have  since  proT^  ik 
funeral  of  the  church  of  England. 

Fuller. — Bj  "the  church  of  England''  the  AnimadTertor 
meaneth  (as  I  believe)  the  hierarchy,  the  funerals  whereof  for  the 
present  we  do  behold.  However,  I  hope  there  is  still  a  church  in 
England  alive,  or  else  we  were  all  in  a  sad,  yea,  in  an  unsalable 
condition.  The  state  of  which  church  in  England  I  compare  to 
Eutychus,  Acts  xx.  9 :  I  suspect  it  hath  formerly  slept  too  soundly 
in  ease  and  security.  Sure  I  am,  it  is  since,  with  him,  '^&U<^o 
down  from  the  third  loft  ;^  from  honour  into  contempt,  from  imity 
into  faction,  from  verity  into  dangerous  errors.  Yet  I  hope,  (^ 
follow  the  allegory,)  that  her  life  is  still  left  in  her;  I  mean, so 
much  soundness  left,  that  persons  bom,  livings  and  dying  therein 
are  capable  of  salvation.  Let  such  who  think  the  church  of  Eng- 
land sick  pray  for  her  wonderful  recovery ;  and  such  as  think  her 
dead  pray  for  her  miraculous  resurrection. 


}.  Db.  Hetlin — ^But,  as  it  seems,  they  feared  wherfi  no  fear 
was,  our  author  telling  us,  that ''  the  Spanish  State  had  no  mind  ot 
meaning  of  a  match ;"  and  that  this  *'  'was  quickly  discovered  hj 
prince  Charles"  at  his  coming  thither.  How  so?  Because,  Saith  he, 
*'they  demanded  such  unreasonable  liberty  in  the  education  ofw^ 
royal  offspring,  and  other  privileges  for  English  papists,"  &c.  (Ch.  Hist. 
vol.  iii.  p.  322.)  If  this  be  all,  it  signifies  as  much  as  nothing*  ^^^ 
thus  the  argument  seems  to  stand;  namely.  The  Spaniards  were 
desirous  to  get  as  good  conditions  as  they  could  for  themselves  ana 
their  party ;  ergd  they  had  no  mind  to  the  match.  Ojf  thus :  The 
demands  of  the  Spaniards,  when  the  business  was  first  in  treaty^ 
seemed  to  be  unreasonable;  ergd  {key  never  really. intended  that  it 
should  proceed.  Our  author  cannot  be  so  great  a  stranger  in  the 
iBhops  of  London,  as  not  to  know  that  tmdeonen  U6e  to  asl,  toBSij 
times,  twice  as  much  fi)r  a  commodity  as  they  mean  to  take;  ^^ 
therefore  may  conclude  as  strongly,  that  they  do  not  mean  to  ^ 
those  wares  for  which  they  ask  such  an  unreasonable  price  at  the  ^ 
flemand.  Iniqutcm  petere^  ut  cequum  obtineas^  hath  been  the  usiuu 
practice  (especially  in  driving  State-bargains)  of  all  times  and  H^' 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  OK  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  X.      55I 

^nd  though  the  Spaniards  at  the  first  spoke  big,  and  stood  upon  such 
points  JEis  the  king  neither  could  nor  would  in  honour  or  conscience 
consent  unto ;  jet  things  were  after  brought  to  such  a  temperament, 
bliat  the  marriage  \ras  agreed  upon,  the  articles  by  both  kings  sub-* 
scribed,  a  proxy  made  by  the  prince  of  Wales  to  espouse  the  Infanta, 
and  all  things  on  her  part  prepared  for  the  day  of  the  wedding.  The 
breach  which  followed  came  not  from  any  ayerseness  in  the  Court  of 
Spain  ;  though  where  the  &ult  was,  and  by  what  means  occasioned^ 
need  not  here  be  said. 

Fui.L£E. — I  expected  when  the  Animadvertor  had  knocked 
away  my  bowl,  he  would  have  laid  a  toucher  in  the  room  thereof: 
but  if  neither  of  us  have  a  bowl  in  the  alley,  we  must  both  begin 
the  game  again. 

May  the  reader  be  pleased  to  know,  that,  living  in  Exeter,  I  had 
many  hours^  private  converse  with  the  right  honourable  John  Digby, 
earl  of  Bristol,  who  favoured  me  so  far,  (much  above  my  desert,) 
that,  at  his  last  going  over  into  France,  (where  he  died,)  he  was 
earnest  with  me  to  go  with  him,  promising  me,  to  use  his  own 
expression,  ^^  that  I  should  have  half  a  loaf  with  him,  so  long  as  he 
had  a  whole  one  to  himself.^  This  I  mention  to  insinuate  a  pro-- 
bability,  that  I  may  be  as  knowing  in  the  mysteries  of  the  Spauiah 
match  as  the  Animadvertor. 

Double  was  the  cause  of  the  breach  of  the  Spanish  match :  Oue, 
such  as  may  with  no  less  truth  than  safety  be  related,  as  publicly 
insisted  on  in  the  Pariiament,  namely,  the  Spanish  prevarication  to 
restore  the  Palatinate :  The  other  secret,  not  so  necessary  to  be 
known,  nor  safe  to  be  reported.  And  I  crave  ihe  liberty  to  conceal 
it,  seeing  the  Animadvertor  himself  hath  his  politic  aposiopesis, 
breaking  off  as  abruptly  as  the  Spanish  match  with  this  wary  reserv- 
ation ; — "  though  where  the  fault  was,  and  by  what  means  occa- 
sioned, need  not  here  to  be  said.^^ 

221.  Dk.  Heylin. — But  well  fere  our  author,  for  all  that;  who 
finally  hath  absolved  the  Spaniard  from  this  breach,  and  laid  the  same 
upon  king  James,  "  despairing  of  any  restitution  to  be  made  of  the 
Palatinate  "  by  the  way  of  treaty. 

"  Whereupon,  king  James  not  only  broke  off  all  treaty  with  Spain^ 
but  also  called  the  great  Council  of  his  kingdom  together."  (Ch.  Hist. 
voL  iii.  p.  323.)  By  which  it  seems,  that  the  breaking-off  of  the 
treaty  did  precede  the  Parliament.  But,  MuUa  apparent  quas  non 
sunt,  "  Every  thing  is  not  as  it  seems."  The  Parliament  in  this  case 
came  before,  by  whose  continual  importunity  and  solicitation  the 
breach  of  the  treaties  followed  after.  The  king  loved  peace  too  well 
to  lay  aside  the  treaties,  and  engage  in  war  before  he  was  desperate  of 
succesB  any  other  way  than  by  that  of  the  sword,  and  was  assured  both 


Digitized  by 


Google 


553  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  II. 

of  the  hands  and  hearts  of  his  suhjects  to  assist  him  in  it.  And  there- 
fore oar  author  should*  hare  said,  that  '^  the  king  not  only  called 
together  his  great  Council,  but  broke  off  the  treaty ;"  and  not  hare 
given  us  here  such  an  hysteron  proteron  as  neither  doth  consist  with 
reason  nor  the  truth  of  story. 

Fuller.— To  be  ao-ToySo;,  ^^a  covenant-breaker,'*^  is  a  foul 
&ult,  as  the  apostle  aecounteth  it,  Rom.  i.  31.  Far  be  it  from  me 
to  chaige  it  causelessly  on  any,  espedaUy  on  a  dead  Christian,  especi- 
ally on  a  king,  especially  on  kiug  James,  generally  represented 
over-fond  of  peace,  and  therefore  the  more  improbable  first  to 
infringe  it. 

To  prevent  exception,  in  the  next  edition,  "  calling  the  Parlia- 
ment** shall  have  the  precedency  of  "  breaking  off  the  treaty  "  for 
the  match. 

I  suspect  that  the  Animadvertor  hath  conmiitted  a  greater  trans- 
position, when  affirming  king  James  to  have  designed  the  Spanisl 
match  in  order  to  the  recovery  of  the  Palatinate.*  Whereas  it 
plainly  appears,*!*  that,  before  any  suspicion  of  troubles  in  the 
Palatinate,  (occasioned  by  prince  Frederick's  accepting  the  crown 
of  Bohemia,)  this  match  was  projected  by  king  James  for  prince 
Henry,  his  eldest  son;  and,  after  his  death,  resumed  for  prince 
Charles,  without  the  least  relation  to  the  regaining  of  the  (not  then 
lost)  palatinate. 

I  have  passed  over  some  additory  notes  of  the  Animadvertor  in 
this  king's  reign,  partly  because  I  perceive  my  book  swells  beyond 
the  expected  proportion,  partly  that  I  may  have  the  more  scope  to 
answer  every  particular  objected  against  me  in  the  reign  of  king 
Charles,  in  such  things  which  lie  level  to  our  own  eyes,  and  are 
within  oiir  own  remembrance. 

•  In  his  <<  Short  View  of  the  Reign  of  King  Charles."  t  In  the  <<  Cabals/'  sad 

U^  U)e  **  Historical  Observattgns  "  of  Mr.  Rnshworth* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


PART    III. 


COKTAIKIVQ 


FULLER  S     ANSWER      TO      HEYLIN  S      ANIMADVERSIONS     ON 
BOOK    XI.    OF    THE    CHURCH-HISTORY    OF    BRITAIN. 

BOOK    XL 

Containing  the  Reign  of  King  Charles, 

PART  I. 

222.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^This  book  concludes  our  author's  Histoiy,  and 
mj  Animadyersions.  And  if  the  end  be  suitable  unto  the  beginning, 
it  is  like  to  find  me  work  enough;  our  author  stumbling  at  the 
threshold,  which,  amongst  superstitious  people,  hath  been  counted  for 
an  ill  presage. 

Fuller. — Who,  I  pray,  stumbled  in  the  beginning  of  his 
Animadversions  P  when  he  said,  That  the  Britons  worshipped  but 
one  God,  and  that  Diana  was  none  of  their  original  deity  ?  What, 
if  I  stumbled,  yea,  and  should  fall  too  ?  Hath  not  the  Animad- 
vertor  read  ? — "  Rejoice  not  against  me,  O  mine  enemy !  when  I 
fall,  I  shall  rise  again,^^  Micah  vii.  8. 

Dr.  Heylin. — Having  placed  king  Charles  upon  the  throne,  he 
goes  on  to  tell  us :  ^'  On  the  foiuteenth  day  of  May  following,  king 
James's  funerals  were  perfotmed  very  solemnly,  in  the  collegiate 
church  at  Westminster."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  333.)  *'  Not  on  the 
fourteenth,  but  the  fourth,"  saith  the  author  of  the  "  History  of  the 
Reign  of  King  Charles ;"  and  both  true  alike.  It  neither  was  on  the 
fourth^  nor  on  the  fourteenth^  but  the  seventh^  of  May,  on  which  those 
solemn  obsequies  were  performed  at  Westminster.  Of  which,  if  he 
win  not  take  my  word,  let  him  consult  the  pamphlet,  called,  "  The 
Observator  observed,"  (fol.  6,)  and  he  shall  be  satisfied.  Our  author's 
clock  must  keep  time  better,  or  else  we  shall  never  know  how  the  day 
goes  with' him. 

FuLLEE. — I  will  take  his  word,  without  going  any  further ;  and 
this  erroneous  date,  in  my  next  edition,  shall,  God  willing,  be 
mended  accordingly.  That  clock  which  always  strikes  true  may 
well  be  forfeited  to  the  lord  of  the  manor ;  though  mine,  I  hope, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


554  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.       PART  III. 

urill  be  found  to  go  &l8e  as  seldom  as  anothe/s.     Oar  autkoi 
saitb,— 

223.  Db.  Heylin. — ^^As  for  Dr.  FMjrtn,  fa.  IsSb  paorty  would 
pennade  us,  that  he  might  hare  d&osen  Yds  own  mitre."  (Ch.  Hist 
Tol.  vL  p.  336.)  Ajad  some  of  bis  party  would  persuade  us,  ^  that  lie 
had  not  onlj  large  parts,  of  sufficient  receipt  to  manage  the  Koad 
Seal  itself,"  but  that  "  the  Seal  was  proffered  to  him."  {Idem,  toL  iii. 
p.  355.)  But  we  are  not  bound  to  belieTe  all  wbicb  is  said  by  that 
party,  who  looked  upon  the  man  with  such  reyerence  as  came  near 
idolatry. 

Fuller* — I  do  not  say,  "they  do  persuade,''  but  " they  would 
persuade  us.''  And  here  the  common  expression  takes  place  with 
me :  Non  persfiodebunty  etiamri  perstuiserint.  Grant,  I  do  not 
believe  all  which  is  said  by  his  party,  yet  I  believe  it  was  my  duty, 
as  an  historian,  to  take  notice  of  so  remarkable  a  passage,  and  to 
report  it  to  posterity,  charging  my  margin  (as  1  have  done)  witli 
the  name  and  place  of  the  author,*  wherein  I  found  it  related. 

Dr.  Heyltn.*— His  principles  and  engagements  were  too  well 
known  by  those  which  governed  afiairs,  to  venture  him  unto  any  such 
great  trust  in  church  or  state ;  and  his  activity  so  suspected,  that  he 
would  not  have  been  long  suffered  to  continue  preacher  at  Lincoln's- 
Inn.  As  for  liis  intimacy  with  the  duke,  (too  violent  to  be  long- 
hsting,)  it  proceeded  not  from  any  good  opinion  which  the  duke  had 
of  him,  but  that  he  found  how  instrumental  he  might  be  to  manage 
that  prevailing  party  to  the  king's  advantage.  But  when  it  v?as  found, 
that  ^'he  had  more  of  the  serpent  in  him,  than  of  the  dove ;"  and  that 
he  was  not  tractable  in.  steering  the  helm  of  his  own  party  by  the 
court-compass,  he  was  discountenanced  and  laid  by,  as  not  worth  the 
keeping.  He  seemed  the  court-meteor  for  a  while,  raised  to  a  sudden 
height  of  expectation ;  and,  having  flashed  and  blazed  a  little,  went 
out  again,  and  was  as  suddenly  foigotten. 

Fuller. — This  is  only  additional,  and  no  whit  opposite,  to 
what  I  have  written  ;  and  therefore  I  am  not  obliged  to  return  any 
answer  thereunto.    Our  author  proceeds : — 

224— ^226»  D|i.  Heylin. — "  Next  day  the  king,  coming  from  Can- 
terbury, met  her  at  Dover;  whence  with  all  solemnity  she  was  con- 
ducted to  Somerset^house  in  London,  where  a  chapel  was  new- 
prepared  for  her  devotion,  vnth  a  convent  adjoining  of  Capuchin  Friars, 
according  to  the  articles  of  her  marriage."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.»iii.  p.  3370 
In  all  this  nothing  true,  but  tiiat  the  new  queen  was  eonducted  with 
all  solemnity  from  Dover  to  London.  For,  First,  although  there  was 
a  chapel  prepared,  yet  was  it  not  prepared  for  her,  nor  **  at  Somerset- 


*  Mr.  BaH  in  Dr.  F(tentm*9  Life. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  TH£  CHtmCH-HtSTOltt,  BOOK  XI.     555 

ii<>us0."    The  cHapel  whlcli  was  then  prepared  was  not  prepared  for 
her,  but  for  the  lady  In^ta,  built  in  the  king^s  house  of  St.  James,  at 
such  time  as  the  treaty  with  Spean  stood  upon  good  terms,  and  then 
intended  for  the  devotions  of  the  princess  of  Wales,  not  the  queen  of 
£Ingland.    Secondly.  The  articles  of  the  marriage  make  no  mention  of 
the  Capuchin  Friars,  nor  any  conyent  to  be  built  for  them.    The 
priests  who  came  over  with  the  queen  were  by  agreement  to  be  all  of 
the  Oiatorian  Order,  as  less  suspected  by  the  Ki^lish,  whcan  Aef 
had  nerer  paroToked,  as  had  die  Jesnuts,  said  most  other  of  the  Monas- 
tic  Orders,  by  their  mischierous  practicciai.    Bat  Ihese  Oratorians 
being  sent  ba<^  with  the  rest  of  the  fVench,  anno  1626,  and  not  will* 
ing  to  expose  themselyes  to  the  hazard  of  a  second  expulsion,  the 
Capuchins,  under  Father  Joseph,  made  good  the  place.    The  breach 
with  France,  the  action  at  the  Isle  of  Rhee,  end  the  loss  of  Rochdle, 
did  all  occur,  before  the  Capuchins  were  thought  of,  or  admitted 
hither.    And,  Thirdly,  some  years  after  the  making  of  the  peace 
between  the  Crowns,  (which  was  in  the  latter  end  of  i628,  and  not 
before,)  the  queen  obtained,  that  these  Friars  might  have  leate  to 
come  over  to  her,  some  lodgings  being  fitted  for  them  in  Somersets- 
house,  and  a  new  chapel  then  and  there  built  for  her  deVotions. 

FuLLEB.-^Here,  and  in  the  next  note,  the  Animadvertor  kabei 
confitmtem  reum.  And,  not  to  take  covert  of  a  Latin  expression, 
in  plain  English,  '*  I  confess  my  mistake  -^  which  is  no  original — 
but  a  derivative— error  in  me,  who  can  (if  so  pleased)  allege  the 
printed  author  who  hath  niisguided  me.  Yet  I  will  patiently  bear 
my  proportion  of  guilt,  and  will  provide,  God  willing,  for  the 
amendment  in  the  next  edition.  Thus,  being  so  supple  to  confess 
my  fault,  when  convinced  thereof,  I  therefore  may  and  will  be  the 
more  stiff  in  standing  on  the  terms  of  mine  own  integrity,  when 
causelessly  accused. 

But  if  the  Animadvertor  be  too  insulting  over  me,  let  him 
remember  his  own  "Short  View  of  the  Life  of  King  Charles,'* 
where  he  tells  us  of  the  three  Welsh  generals,  that  they  submitted 
to  mercy,  which  they  never  tasted,  naming  Laughem,  Powel,  and 
Poyer.*  Whereas  two  of  them  did  find  mercy,  a  little  male  child 
being  taken  up,  who  did  cast  lots  at  Whitehall ;  and,  by  provi- 
dence ordering  casualty,  Laughem  and  Powel  t^ere  pardoned,  and 
lately,  if  not  still,  alive.  But  I  forgive  the  DoCtot  for  this  error, 
being  better  than  a  tmth, — two  gentlemen  gaining  their  lives 
thereby.     Our  author  proceeds  :— 

227,  228.  Db.  Heyldc.— "  The  bishop  of  Lincoln,  Lord-Keeper, 
was  now  daily  descendent  in  the  king's  favour ;  who  so  highly  dis* 
tasted  him,  that  he  would  not  have  him,  as  dean  of  Westminster,  to 

*  Compare  his  page  140,  nvith  his  pftge  144. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


556  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.       PART  III. 

perfonn  any  part  of  his  coronation."  (Ch.  Hist.  voL  iii.  p.  340.)  As 
little  truth  in  this  as  in  that  hefore.  For,  First,  the  Inshop  of  lincok 
was  not  Lord-Keeper  at  the  time  of  the  coronation.  Secondly.  If  he 
had  heen  so,  and  that  the  Idag  was  so  distasted  with  him  as  not  to  i 
suffer  him  to  assist  at  his  coronation,  how  came  he  to  be  suffered  to  k 
present  at  it  in  the  capacity  of  Lord-Keeper  ?  For  that  he  did  so,  is 
affirmed  by  our  author,  saying,  ^^  that  the  king  took  a  scroll  of  parch- 
ment out  of  his  bosom,  and  gare  it  to  the  Lord-Keeper  Williams,  who 
read  it  to  the  Commons  four  sereral  times,— east,  west,  north,  asd 
south."  fldem^  roL  iii.  p.  343.)  Thirdly.  The  liord-Keeper,  who 
read  that  scroll,  was  not  the  Lord-Keeper  Williams,  but  the  Lord- 
Keeper  Coventry ;  the  Seal  being  taken  from  the  bishop  of  Lincoln^ 
and  committed  to  the  custody  of  sir  Thomas  Coventry,  in  October 
before.  And  therefore,  Fourthly,  our  author  is  much  out,  in  placing 
both  the  coronation,  and  the  following  Parliament,  before  the  change 
of  the  Lord-Keeper;  and  sending  sir  John  Suckling  to  fetch  that 
Seal,  at  the  end  of  a  Parliament  in  the  spring,  which  he  had  brought 
away  with  him  before  Michaelmas  term.  But  as  our  author  was  will- 
ing to  keep  the  bishop  of  Lincoln  in  the  deanery  of  Westminster,  for 
no  less  than  fire  or  six  years  after  it  was  conferred  on  another;  so  is 
he  as  desirous  to  continue  him  Lord-Keeper  for  as  many  months  after 
the  Seal  had  been  entrusted  to  another  hand. 

Fuller. — This  also  is  an  error.  I  neither  can  nor  will  defend 
the  Lord-Keeper  Williams,  put  for  the  Lord-Keeper  Coventry, 
which  hath  betrayed  me  to  some  consequential  incongruities.  I 
will  not  plead  for  myself  in  such  a  suit,  where  I  foresee  the  yerdict 
will  go  against  me.  Only  I  move,  as  to  mitigation  of  costs  and 
damages,  that  greater  slips  have  fallen  from  the  pens  of  good 
historians. 

Mr.  Speed  in  his  J'  Chronicle,''  (first  edition,  page  786,)  speaking 
of  Henry,  eldest  son  to  king  Henry  VI IL,  maketh  archbishop 
Cranmer  (mistaken  for  Warham)  his  godfather,  twenty-four  yeftrs 
before  Cranmer  ever  sate  in  that  See.  I  write  not  this  to  accuse 
him,  but  ■  in  part  to  excuse  myself,  by  paralleling  mine  with  as 
evident  a  mistake.  I  hope,  my  free  confession  of  my  fault,  with 
promise  of  emendation  of  it  and  the  appendants  thereof,  in  my  next 
edition,  will  meet  with  the  reader's  absolution.  And  let  the  Ani- 
madvertor  for  the  present  (if  so  pleased)  make  merry,  and  feast 
himself  on  my  mistake,  assuring  him,  that  he  is  likely  to  fast  a  long 
time  hereafter.     Our  author  proceeds  : — 


229.  Dr.  Heylin.— **  The  earl  of  Arundel,  as  Earl-Marshal  of 
flngland,  and  the  duke  of  Buckingham,  as  Lord  High  Constable  of 
England,  for  that  day,  went  before  his  majesty  in  that  great  solemnity." 
(Ch.  Hist.  Tol.  iii.  p.  342.)     In  this  passage,  and  the  next  that  follows, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORYi  BOOK  XI.      557 

our  author  shows  himself  as  bad  an  herald  in  marshalling  a  rojal 
slioiTV^,  as  in  stating  the  true  time  of  the  creation  of  a  noble  peer. 
Here  in  this  place  he  placeth  the  Earl-Marshal  before  the  Constable ; 
mrbereas  by  the  statute  31  Henry  YIII.  c.  10,  the  Constable  is  to  haye 
precedency  before  the  Marshal.  Nor  want  there  precedents  to  show, 
that  the  Lord  High  Constable  did  many  times  direct  his  mandates  to 
the  Earl-Marshal,  as  one  of  the  ministers  of  his  court, ''  willjiig  and 
requiring  "  him  to  pierform  such  and  such  services,  as  in  the  said  pre- 
cepts were  expressed. 

Fuller. — My  heraldry  is  right  both  in  place  and  time.  The: 
earl  of  Arundel,  as  Earl-Marshal,  went  after^  the  duke  of  Bucking- 
ham, as  Lord  High  Constable,  though  going  before  him.  For 
barons  went  (in  this  royal  procession,  at  the  king's  coronation) 
before  bishops,  bishops  before  viscounts,  viscounts  before  earls,  the 
meaner  before  the  greater  officers  of  state.  Thus  the  Lord  Con- 
stable (though  the  last)  was  the  first,  because,  of  all  subjects,  . 
nearest  to  the  person  of  the  sovereign.  It  seemeth,  the  days  were 
very  long  when  the  Animadvertor  wrote  these  causeless  cavils ; 
which  being  now  grown  very  short,  I  cannot  afford  so  much  time  in 
confuting  them. 

This  his  cavilling  mindeth  me  of  what  he  hath  mistaken  in  his 
Geography.  For,  the  younger  son  of  an  English  earl  coming  to. 
Geneva,  (desired  a  carp  for  his  dinner,  having  read  in  the  Doctor's 
*'  Geography,^'  that  the  Leihan  lake  had  plenty  of  the  fish,  and 
the  best  and  biggest  of  that  kind.  The  people  wondered  at  his 
desire  of  such  a  dainty,  which  that  place  did  not  afford ;  but  told 
him,  that  they  had  trouts  as  good  and  great  as  any  in  Europe. 
Indeed,  learned  Gesner*  doth  observe,  that  the  trouts  caught  in  this 
lake,  sent  to,  and  sold  at  Lyons,  are  mistaken  for  salmons  by 
strangers,  unacquainted  with  their  proportions.  It  seems  the  Ani- 
madvertor's  pen  is  so  much  given  to  cavilling,  that  he  turned  trouts 
into  carps,  though  none  of  them  so  great  .as  this  his  <^^  at  me,  for 
making  the  Lord  Marshal  to  go  before  the  Lord  Constable,  at  the 
king's  coronation.     Our  author  proceeds : — 

230.  Dr.  Heylin. — In  the  next  place  we  are  informed,  "  That  the 
king's  train,  being  six  yards  long  of  purple  velvet,  was  held  up  by  the 
lord  Oompton,  and  the  lord  viscount  Dorchester."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii. 
p.  342.)  That  the  lord  Compton  was  one  of  them  which  held  up  the 
king's  train,  I  shall  easily  grant ;  he  being  then  Master  of  the  Robes, 
and  thereby  challenging  a  right  to  perform  this  service.  But  that  the 
lord  viscount  Dorchester  was  the  other  of  them,  I  shall  never  grant ; 
there  being  no  such  viscount  at  the  time  of  the  coronatioi;!.  I  cannot 
say,  but  that  sir  Dudley  Carletbn  might  be  one  of  those  which  held  up 

•  J>e  Pueihus,  in  voce  "  Trutfa," 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


55d  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCSNCB.  PABT  III. 

tiie  train,  though  I  am  not  sore  of  it.  Bqt  sore  I  am,  that  tir  Dndlej 
Cailftton  was  not  made  hanm  of  Imber-conrt  till  towazds  tiie  \atba 
and  of  the  Urilowing  PaiUamant  of  amno  1626,  nor  created  viaooimt 
Doidiaster  nntil  aome  yean  after. 

FjshhtR^r^li  k  «  meie  niatake  of  the  printer,  for  yiscoimt 
DonoaHer,  aon  of  (^  now  himadf)  Ife  ead  of  Ghiliaie  ;  whose 
fiither  liaying  a  great  office  in  the  wardrobe,  this  place  waa  proper 
for  him  to  perfonn.  All  will  presume  me  knowing  enougli  in  the 
orthogmphy  of  his  title,  who  was  my  patron  when  I  wrote  the  book; 
and  whom  I  shall  ever,  whilst  I  live,  deservedly  honour,  for  his 
great  bounty  nnto  me.    Our  author  proceeds : — 

231.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^'^Tbe  lord  an^ishop  did  presesit  his  majesty 
to  the  Lords  and  Commons,  east,  west,  north,  south;  asking  their 
minds  four  several  times,  if  they  did  consent  to  the  coronation  of  king 
Charles  their  Uwful  sorereign.''  (Ch.  Hist  vol.  iiL  p.  342.)  This  is  a 
piece  of  new  State-doctrine,  nerer  known  before,-— >that  the  coronation 
of  the  king  (and  consequently  his  succession  to  iche  Crovm  of  England) 
should  depend  on  the  consent  of  the  Lords  and  Commons,  who  were 
then  assembled;  the  coronation  not  proceeding,  as  he  after  telleth  us, 
tiU  their  '^  consent  was  given  four  times  by  acclamations." 

Fuller.— I  exactly  follow  the  language  of  my  worthy  intelli- 
gencer, a  Doctor  of  Divinity,  still  alive,  rich  in  learning  and  piety, 
present  on  the  place,  and  an  exact  observer  pf  all  passages  ;  and  see 
no  reason  to  depart  from  it.  I  am  so  far  from  making  the  corona- 
tion of  the  sovereign  depend  on  the  consent  of  his  subjects,  that  I 
make  not  the  kingly  power  depend  on  his  coronation,  who,  before 
it,  and  without  it,  is  lawful  and  effectual  king  to  all  purposes  and 
intents.  This  was  not  a  consent  like  that  of  the  bride  to  the 
bridegroom,  the  want  whereof  doth  null  the  marriage ;  but  a  mere 
ceremonial  one,  in  majorem  pompam;  which  did  not  make  but 
manifest — ^not  constitute  but  declare— his  power,  ov^r  his  people. 
So  that  the  king  got  not  one  single  mite  of  titk  more,  than  he  had 
before  this  four-fold  acclamation. 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^And  this  I  call  "  a  piece  of  new  State-doctrine, 
never  known  before,"  because  I  find  the  contrary  in  the  coronation  of 
our  former  kings.  For,  in  the  form  and  manner  of  the  coronation  of 
king  Edward  VI.  described  in  the  "  Catalogue  of  Honour,"  set  forth 
by  Thomas  Mills  of  Canterbury,  anno  1610,  we  find  ft  thus :  "The 
king,  being  cairied  by  certain  noble  courtiers  in  another  chair,  unto 
the  four  sides  of  the  stage,  was  by  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury 
declared  unto  the  people,  (standing  round  about,)  both  by  God's  and 
man's  laws,  to  be  the  right  and  lavirful  king  of  England,  France,  and 
Ireland,  and  proclaimed  that  day  to  be  crowned,  consecrated,  and 
anointed :    unto  whom  he  demanded,  whether  they  would  obey  and 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THB  CHUBCH-HISTORV,  BOOK  XI.    559 

serre,  or  not  ?    By  whom  it  was  again  wiih  a  loud  cry  answered,  God 

save  the  king  I  and,  Ever  Uve  his  majesty  !  **    The  same  we  hare  in 

substance,  but  in  fewer  words,  in  the  coronation  of  king  James,  where 

it  is  said,  that  *'  the  king  was  showed  to  the  people,  and  that  they 

irere  reqidred  to  make  acknowledgment  of  their  allegiance  to  his 

majesty    by  the    archbishop;    which    they    did    by  aodamattons." 

Assuredly,  the  difference  is  exceeding  yast  betwixt  obeying  and  eomt 

senting;  betwixt  the  people's  ^^  acknowled^oig  tbeir  allegiance  and 

promising  to  obey  and  serre  their  lawful  sorereign,*  and  giving  iheifi 

consent  to  his  coronation,  as  if  it  could  not  be  performed  without  such 

consent. 

FuLLEE. — ^The  hinge  of  the  controversy  tumeth  on  the  critical 
difference  betwixt  these  two  phrases : — "  Acknowledging  their 
allegiance  to  their  sovereign  :  ^  "  Giving  consent  to  his  coronation.'' 
The  Animadvertor  endeavours  to  widen  the  dijstance  betwixt 
them,  and  make  the  difference  vast,  yea,  exceeding  vast,  against  the 
will  of  the  words,  which  are  well-inclined  to  an  agreement,  there 
being  a  vicinity,  yea,  affinity  betwixt  them;  since  such  who  will 
not  acknowledge  their  allegiance  will  not  give  consent  to  his  coro-> 
nation,  and  such  who  will  consent  thereunto  will  acknowledge  their 
allegiance. 

I  refer  myself  wholly  in  this  difference  to  the  arbitration  of  Mr. 
Mills,  (the  same  author  and  edition  cited  by  the  Animadvertor,) 
who,  speaking  of  the  ancient  form  of  the  coronation  of  the  kings  of 
England,  in  reference  to  this  passage,  thus  expresseth  himself: — 

<*  After  the  king  hath  a  little  reposed  himself  in  the  chair  or 
throne,  erected  upon  the  scaffold,  then  the  archbishop  of  Canter- 
bury shall  go  unto  the  four  squares  of  the  scaffold,  and,  with  a  loud 
voice,  ask  the  good-liking  of  the  people,  concerning  the  coronation 
of  the  king.''* 

Small,  I  am  sure,  is  the  difference  betwixt  consenting  and  good- 
Uking.  » However,  the  king's  coronation,  though  following  after, 
did  not  depend  «n,  such  eonsmt^  good-liking,  or  acknowledging  of 
allegiance ;  seeing,  amongst  our  English  kings,  an  usurper's  title 
was  not  the  better  with — ^nor  a  kwful  prince's  the  worse  without- 
such  ceremonies  of  State  : — 

Dr.  Heylin. — -Nor  had  the  late  archbishop  been  reproached  so 
generally  by  the  common  people,  (and  that  reproach  published  ixi 
several  pamphlets,)  fer  alteriiig  the  king'is  oath  at  his  coronation,  to 
ihe  infringing  of  the  liberties,  and  diminution  of  the  rights,  of  th^ 
English  «subjects;  had  he  done  them  such  a  notable  piece  of  service, 
as  freeing  them  from  all  promises  to  obey  and  serve,  and  making  the. 
king's  coronation  to  depend  on  their  consent.     For  bishop  Laud— ^ 

•  Mii^LS's  "CatiLlog[Tie  of  Honour,'*.pag.  51. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


560  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  III. 

being  one  of  that  Committee,  which  was  appointed  by  the  king  to 
reyiew  the  fonn  and  order  of  the  coronation,  to  the  end  it  might  be 
fitted  to  some  rites  and  ceremonies  of  the  church  of  England  which 
had  not  been  observed  before — ^must  bear  the  greatest  blame  in  this 
alteration,  (if  any  such  alteration  had  been  made  as  onr  author  speaks 
oi,)  because  he  was  the  principal  man  whom  the  king  relied  on  in  that 
business. 

Fuller.— This  proceedeth  on  the  former  foundation  ;  which 
being  fidse  and  confuted,  the  superstnicture  sinketh  therewith. 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^But  our  author  tells  us  in  his  Preface,  that  this  last 
book,  with  diyers  of  the  rest,  were  written  by  him,  when  "the 
Monarchy  was  turned  into  a  State."  And  I  dare  beKere  him.  He 
had  not  else  so  punctually  conformed  his  language  to  the  new  State- 
doctrine,  by  which  the  making  (and,  consequently,  the  unmaking)  of 
kings  is  wholly  rested  in  the  people,  according  to  that  maxim  of 
Buchanan  :  Populo  Jus  esty  imperium  cui  velit  deferat ;  than  which, 
there  is  not  a  more  pestilent  and  seditious  passage  in  his  whole  hook, 
De  Jure  Regni  apud  ScotoSy  though  there  be  nothing  else  but  treason 
and  sedition  in  it 

Fuller.— What  I  wrote  in  this  point,  I  wrote  in  my  Prefece, 
that  it  might  be  obvious  to  every  eye;  namely,  that  ^^the  first 
three  books  of  my  Church-History  were,  for  the  main,  written  in 
the  reign  of  the  late  king ;  the  other  nine,  since  Monarchy  was 
turned  into  a  State.**^ 

My  language  in  the  ]att,er  books  forbeareth  such  personal  passages 
on  the  king  and  his  posterity,  which,  in  his  life-time,  were  as  con- 
sistent with  my  loyalty,  as,  since,  inconsistent  with  my  safety.  I 
will  instance  in  one  of  them : — 

"  Some  of  whose  offspring  [king  John's]  shall  flourish,  in  free 
and  full  power  on  the  English  throne,  when  the  Chair  of  Pestilence 
shall  be  burnt  to  ashes  ;  and  neither  triple-crown  left  at  Rome  to. 
be  worn,  nor  any  head  there  which  shall  dare  to  wear  it.^^  (Ch. 
Hist,  book  iii.  vol.  i.  p.  341.) 

But  if  the  Animadvertor,  or  any  by  him  employed,  can  in  any 
my  nine  last  books  discover  a  syllable  sounding  to  the  disparage- 
ment of  the  king's  person  or  power,  to  any  impartial  ear,  let  me, 
who  so  long  fed  on  the  king's  large  diet,  be  justly  famished  for  my 
unthankfulness. 

As  for  Buchanan,  as  I  admire  his  poetry,  so  I  dislike  his  divinity, 
especially  in  this  point ;  desiring  that  his  principles  may  never  come 
south' the  river  Tweed,  and,  if  offering  it,  may  be  drowned  in  their 
passage.     Our  author  proceeds  : — 

232.  Dr.  Heylin — "  Then  as  maziy  earls  and  barons  as  could  con- 

Digitizedby^OOQlC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.      g61' 

r«niently  stand  about  the  throne,  did  lay  their  hands  on  the  croifn^ 

>aL  his  majesty's  head,  protesting  to  spend  their  bloods  to  maintain  it  to 

3.iin  and  his  lawful  heirs."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  343.)    A  promise 

Faithfully  performed  by  many  of  them,  some  losing  their  lives  for  him 

Lxi  the  opeii  £eld)  others  exhausting  their  estates  in  defence  of  his, 

many  more  yenturing  their  whole  fortunes  by  adhering  to  him  to  a 

confiscation.     A  catalogue  of  which  last  we  may  find  subscribed  to  a 

letter,  s&at  from  the  Lords  and  Commons  of  Parliament  assembled  in 

Oxford,  to  those  at  Westminster,  anno  1643.     And  by  that  catalogue 

Tve  may  also  see  what  and  who  they  were  who  so  ignobly  brake  fidth 

Tvith  him ;  all  those  whose  names  we  find  not  in  that  subscription,  or 

presently  superadded  to  it,  being  to  be  reckoned  amongst  those  who, 

instead  of  ^'  spending  their  blood  to  maintain  the  crown  to  him,  and  to 

liis  lawful  successors,"  concurred  with  them,  either  in  opere  or  in  votOy 

mrho  despoiled  him  of  it.     And,  to  say  truth,  they  were  rewarded  as 

they  had  deserved ;  the  first  thing  which  was  done  by  the  House  of 

Ck>mmons  (after  the  king,  by  their  means,  had  been  brought  to  the 

£sttal  block)  being  to  turn  them  out  of  power,  to  dissolve  their  House^ 

and  annul  their  privileges,  reducing  them  to  the  same  c6ndition  with 

the  rest  of  the  subjects. 

Fuller. — I  behold  all  this  paragraph  as  a  letter  sent  to  me, 
Vhich  requires  no  answer,  (only  I  bear  the  Animadvertor  witness, 
that  it  is  delivered,)  seeing  I  was  none  of  the  Lords  on  either  side* 
But  I  am  not  altogether  satisfied  in  the  adequation  of  the  Animad-^ 
Tertor's  dichotomy  to  all  the  English  nobility,— that  all  not  suh- 
scribing  the  Catalogue  at  Oxford  must  instantly  be  concluded  on 
the  opposite  party  ;  believing  that,  upon  serious  search,  some  Lords 
would  be  found  in  their  minority,  and  not  necessarily  reducible  to 
either  of  these  heads. 

233.  Dr.  Hbylik. — ^'  And  it  had  not  been  amiss,  if  such  who  would 
be  accounted  his  friends  and  admirers  hud  followed  him  in  the  footsteps 
of  his  moderation ;  content  with  the  enjoying,  without  the  enjoining, 
their  private  practices  and  opinions  on  others."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii. 
p.  349.)  This  comes  in  as  an  inference  only  on  a  former  passage, 
in  which  it  is  said  of  bishop  Andrews,  that  *^  in  what  place  soever  he 
came,  he  never  pressed  any  other  ceremonies  upon  them,  than  such  as 
he  found  to  be  used  there  before  his  coming ; "  though  otherwise  coq>- 
demned  by  some  for  many  superstitious  ceremonies  and  superfluous 
ornaments  used  in  his  private  chapeL  How  true  this  is,  I  am  not  able 
to  affirm. 

FuLLEE. — The  Animadvertor  (if  so  disposed)  might  soon  have 
satisfied  himself  in  this  point,  being^  beneficed  in  Hampshire,  the 
last  diocess  of  bishop  Andrews.  And  though  his  institution  into 
his  living  wai  since  the  death  of  that  worthy  prelate,  yet  his  infor- 
mation in  this  particular  had  been  easy  from  the  aged  clergy  of  hjs 

o  o 

Digitized  by.LjOOQlC 


562  APPEAL  OF  tNJlTRKp  INNOCENCS.  PART  III. 

Ticinage.  Sure  I  am,  he  ever  was  inquisitive  enough  in  matteis 
which  might  make  for  his  advantage ;  so  that  his  not  denying  tan- 
tamounteth  to  ^  affirming  of  the  matter  in  question. 

Dr.  flETLtH. — ^I  am  less  ahle  (if  it  should  be  trtte)  to  eommeild  it 
in  him.  It  is  not  certainly  the  office  of  a  oareful  bishop,  only  to 
leave  things  as  he  found  them ;  but  to  reduce  them,  if  amiss,  to  tiiose 
rules  and  canons  from  which,  by  the  forwardness  of  some  to  innovate, 
and  the  connivance  of  others  at  the  innovations,  they  had  been  suf- 
fered to  decline. 

Fuller.— -I  comply  cordially  with  the  Animadvertor  in  all  this  last 
sentence.  Only  I  add,  that  it  is  also  the  office  of  a  good  bishop, 
not  to  endeavour  the  alteration  of  things  well-settled  before.  This  was 
the  constant  practice  of  Dr.  Andrews,  successively  bishop  of  Chi- 
chester, Ely,  and  Winchester,  who  never  urged  any  other  ceremo- 
nies than  what  he  found  there.  Now,  whereas  the  Animadvertor 
saith,  that  **  if  this  i^ould  be  true,  he  is  not  able  to  commend  it 
in  him;^  the  mattra  is  not  much,  seeing  the  actions  of  bishop 
Andrews  are  able  to  commend  themselves. 

234  Dr.  Hryuk.—- And,  for  the  inference  itself,  it  is  int^ded 
chiefly  for  the  late  asd&bishop  of  Canterbury,  against  whom  be  had 
«  fling  before  in  the  fourth  book  of  this  History,  not  noted  there, 
because  reserved  to  another  place,  of  which  more  hereafter.  Con- 
demned here  for  ^'  his  want  of  mod«:ation,  in  enjoining  his  private 
practices  and  opinions  on  other  men."  But,  First,  our  author  had 
done  well  to  have  spared  the  man,  who  hath  already  reckoned  for  all 
his  errors  both  with  God  and  the  world. 

Fuller.— He  hath  so  ;  and  I  hope,  what  he  could  not  satisfy 
in  himself  was  done  by  bis  Saviour.  But,  First,  the  Animadvertor 
had  done  well  to  have  spared  his  censure  on  my  intentions,,  except 
he  had  better  assurance  of  them.  Here  I  must,  reader,  appeal  to 
an  higher  than  thyself,  to  Him  who  can  read  the  secrets  of  my 
heart,  before  whom.  I  protest,  that  in  this  passage  I  did  not  reflect 
in  any  degree  on  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury.  To  make  this  the 
more  probable,  know,  the  Articles  of  his  Visitation  were  observed 
to  be  as  moderate  as  any  bishop^s  in  England. 

Here  let  me  enter  this  memorable;  and  let  the  Animadvertor 
confiite  it,  if  he  can :  There  was  a  design  of  the  thirty-six  dis- 
senters (of  whom  hereafter)  in  the  Convocation  to  obtain,  that 
these  Articles  of  his  Visitation  might  be  precedential  to  all  the 
bishops  in  England,  as  being  in  themselves  inoffensive,  and  con- 
taining no  innovations.  This  was  by  some  communicated  to  arch- 
bishop Laud,  who  at  first  seemed  to  approve  thereof;  and  how  it 
tcame  afterwards  to  miscarry,  I  am  not  bound  to  discover. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  TfiJE  CHURCH-HISTORV,  BOOK  XL      563 

I  confess,  this  my  expression  did  eye  another  person »  related  to 
l>isIiop  Andrews,  whom  I  forbear  to  name^  except  by  the  Animad-^ 
•vertof's  reply  unto  me  I  be  forced  thereunto. 

Dr.  HETLiN.*^And,  Secondly,  it  had  been  bettei:  if  he  had  told  tt4 
vrhat  those  "  private  practices  and  opinions "  were,  which  the  arch- 
bishop, with  such  want  of  moderation,  did  enjoin  on  others, 

FuxLEE*~They  are  reckoned  up  in  my  Church-History :  Boole 
3ti.  vol.  iii.  pp.  415,  416.  This  is  direction  enough ;  and  there 
one  may  find  more  than  a  good  many  of  such  opinions  and 
practices ;  on  the  self-same  token,  that  it  was  discreetly  done  of 
the  Animadvertor  to  pass  them  over  in  silence,  without  a  word  in 
their  defence  or  excuse.  1  will  not  again  here  repeat  them,  partly, 
because  I  will  not  rerive  what  in  some  sort  is  dead  and  buried ; 
and,  partly,  because  I  charitably  believe,  that  some  engaged  Uierein^ 
and  stiil  dive,  are  since  sorry  for  their  over-activity  therein, 

Db*  HiSTiiiir.*— -For  it  is  possible  enough,  that  the  opinions  which 
he  (Speaks  of  might  be  the  public  doctrines  of  the  church  of  England, 
znaintained  by  him,  in  opposition  to  those  private  opinions  which  the 
Calvinian  party  had  intended  to  obtrude  upon  her:  a  thing  com-- 
plained  of  by  Spalato ;  who  well  observed,  that  many  of  the  opinions 
both  of  Luther  and  Calvin  were  received  amongst  us,  as  part  of  the 
doctrine  and  confession  of  the  churd^  of  England ;  which  otherwise 
lie  acknowledged  to  be  capable  of  an  orthodox;  sense.  Proeter  Anglic 
canam  Confessionem  (quam  mihi  ut  modestdtn  prcedicahant)  multa 
video  Lulheri  et  Calvini  dogmata  ohtinnisse^  ^  as  he  there  objects. 

Puller.— 1  am  not  bound  to  stand  to  the  judgment  of  Spalato, 
who  would  not  stand  to  his  own  judgment ;  but,  first  in  heart,  then 
in  body,  went  back  into  Sgypt.  Lay  not  such  unsavoury  salt  in 
my  dish,  but  cast  it  to  the  dunghill. 

Dr.  Hetlin. — ^He  that  reads  the  "  C^bg,"  and  the  "  Appello  Casa* 
rem"*  of  bishop  Mountagu  cannot  but  see,  that  those  opinions  which 
our  author  condemned  for  private,  were  the  true  doctrine  of  this 
church,  professed  and  held  forth  in  the  Book  of  Articles,  the  Homiliea^ 
and  the  Common^Prayer  Book. 

Puller.— H^  that  reads  the  answers  returned  by  several  divines 
to  the  books  of  bishop  Mountagu,  cannot  but  see,  that  they  were 
rather  private  opinions,  than  the  true  and  professed  doctrine  of  the 
church  of  England. 

Here,  reader,  I  cannot  but  remember  a  passage  betwixt  two 
messengers,  sent  to  carry  defiances  from  several  armies;  who, 
meeting  in  the  mid-way,  (though  naked  and  without  swords,  yet,) 
to  manifest  their  zeal  to  their  cause^  fought  it  out  with  their  trum- 

*  Consilium  redeundu 

2  0  2       .  n        \ 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


564  APPEAL  OF  INJITRED  INNOCENCE.  PART  III. 

pets,  till,  both  being  well- wearied^  they  went  about  their  business, 
leaving  the  main  si^ccess  to  be  tried  by  their  armies.  ' 

Historians  are  beheld  in  the  notion  of  heralds.  And,  seeing  tlic 
Animadvertor  and  I  have  now  clashed  it  with  our  trumpets,  let  m 
leave  the  rest  to  be  disputed  and  decided  by  those  learned  and 
pious  persons,  who  publicly  in  print  have  engaged  therein,  and  who 
have  [met]  or  may  in  due. time  meet  together  in  bliss  and  happiness. 
"  In  miy  father'^s  house  are'^  (though  no  wall  of  partition)  "many 
mansions  ;'*^  (John  xiv.  2 ;)  several  receptacles  (as  some  suppose) 
for  Martyrs,  Confessors,  &c.  and  why  not  for  such  as,  dissenting  in 
the  superstructures,  concur  in  holy  life,  and  the  fundamentals  of 
religion  ? 

Dr.  Heyiin. — And  It  is  possible  enough,  that  the  practices  which 
he  speaks  of  were  not  private  neither,  but  a  reviver  of  those  ancient 
and  public  usages  which  the  Canons  of  the  church  enjoined,  and  bj  the 
remissness  of  the  late  government  had  been  discontinued.  But,  for  a 
justification  of  the  practices,  (the  private  practices  he  speaks  of,)  I 
shall  direct  him  to  an  author  of  more  credit  with  him.  Which  author, 
First,  tells  us  of  the  bishops  generally,  "  that,  being  of  late  years  either 
careless  or  indulgent,  they  had  not  required,  within  their  diocesses, 
that  strict  obedience  to  ecclesiastical  constitutions  which  tlie  law 
expected ;  upon  which,  the  liturgy  began  totally  to  be  laid  aside,  and 
inconformity  the  uniform  practice  of  the  church.**  He  tells  us, 
Secondly,  of  archbishop  Abbot  in  particular,  that  "his  extraordi- 
tkory  remissness,  in  not  exacting  a  strict  conformity  to  the  prescribed 
orders  of  the  church  in  point  of  ceremony,  seemed  to  dissolve  thos6 
legal  determinations  to  their  first  principle  of  indifierency,  and  let  in 
such  an  habit  of  inconformity,  as  the  future  reduction  of  those  tender- 
€onsdenced  men's  too-long-discontinued  obedience  was  interpreted  an 
iimovation."  t  And,  Finadly,  he  tells  of  archbishop  Laud,  who  suc- 
ceeded Abbot  in  that  See,  that,  "  being  of  another  mind  and  mettle, 
he  did  not  like  that  the  external  worship  of  God  should  follow  tbe 
feshion  of  every  private  fancy ;  and  what  he  did  not  like  in  that  subject^ 
as  he  was  in  state,  so  he  thought  it  was  his  duty  to  reform.  To  which 
■end,  in  his  metropolitical  visitation,  he  calls  upon  all,  both  clergy  and 
laity,  to  observe  the  rules  of  the  church."  J  And  this  is  that  which 
our  author  calls,  the  "enjoining  of  his  private  practices ;"  fnW^» 
perhaps,  in  the  private  opinion  of  some  men,  who  had  declared  thena- 
«elves  to  be  professed  enemies  to  all  public  order. 

FuLLEE. — I  have  cause  to  give  credit  unto  him,  §  who,  to  the 
lustre  of  his  ancient  and  noble  extraction,  hath  added  the  light  of 
Jeaming,  not  as  his  profession,  but  accomplishment ;  whereby  b^ 
bath  presented  the  public  with   an  handsome  History,  likely  to 

*  «  ","*«*o'y  of  King  Charles,"  fol.  143.  f  Idem,  p.  131.  $  Idem,  ?■  l*^' 

$  H.  Le  Strange^  esq. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.      §65 

prove  as  acceptable  to  posterity,  as  it  Hath  done  to  the  present  age. 
The  gentleman,  in  that  his  passage,  reflecteth  only  on  such  cere- 
monies as  stood  in  force  by  canon,  but  had  been  disused;  with 
whom  I  concur.  But  the  controversy  in  hand  is  about  additional 
<;eremonies,  enjoined  by  no  canons,  (save  some  men^s  over-imperious 
commanding,  and  others'*  over-officious  complying,)  justly  deserving 
the  censure  of  *'  private  practices.'*    Our  author  proceeds  : — 

235.  Dr.  Hbylin. — ."  A  Commission  was  granted  unto  five  bishops^ 
•^whereof  bishop  Land  of  the  quorum,)  to  suspend  archbishop  Abbot 
'from  exercising  his  authority  any  longer,  because  uncanonical  for 
casual  homicide."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  349.)  Had  our  author  said, 
that  bishop  Laud  had  been  one  of  the  number,  he  had  hit  it  right ; 
the  Commission  being  granted  to  five  bishops ;  namely.  Dr.  Mouut^ 
taigne,  bishop  of  London;  Dr.  Neile,  bishop  of  Durham;  Dr.  Buck^ 
eridge,  bishop  of  Bochester ;  Dr.  Howson,  bishop  of  Oxford ;  and 
Dr.  Laud,  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells ;  or  to  any  four,  three,  or  two  of 
them,  and  no  more  than  so.  .Had  bishop  Laud  been  of  the  quorum, 
his  presence  and  consent  had  been  so  necessary  to  all  their  consulta- 
tions, conclusions,  and  dispatch  of  businesses^  that  nothing  could  be 
done  without  him ;  whereas,  by  the  words  of  the  Commission,  any 
two  of  them  were  empowered,  and,  consequently,  all  of  them  must  be 
of  the  quorum,  as  well  as  he ;  which  every  Justice's  Clerk  cannot 
choose  but  laugh  at. 

Fuller. — They  will  soon  cease  their  laughter  at  the  sad  story 
I  am  about  to  relate.  But  be  it  premised,  that  here  I  use  the 
quorum  not  in  the  legal  strictness  thereof,  but  in  that  passable  sense 
in  common  discourse  ;  namely,  for  one  so  active  in  a  business,  that 
nothing  is  (though  it  may  be)  done  without  him  therein. 

When  the  writing  for  archbishop  Abbot''s  suspension  was  to  be 
subscribed  by  the  bishops  aforesaid,  the  four  seniors  (namely,  Lon- 
don, Durham,  Rochester,  and  Oxford)  all  declined  to  set  their  hands 
thereunto,  and  (seemingly  at  the  least)  showed  much  reluctance 
and  regret  thereat.  ^^  Then  give  me  the  pen,^  said  bishop  Laud,  and 
though  last  in  place,  first  subscribed  his  name.  Encouraged  by 
whose  words  and  example,  the  rest,  afLer  some  demur,  did  the  like. 

This  was  attested  to  me  by  him  who  had  best  cause  to  know  it^ — k 
the  aged  and  credible  Register,  still  alive,  who  attended  in  the 
place  upon  them.  This  I  formerly  knew,  but  concealed  it ;  and 
had  not  published  it  now,  if  not  necessitated  thereunto  in  my  just 
defence. 

236.  Dk.  Heylin.— Nor  is  there  any  such  thing  as  a  casual  homi- 
cide mentioned,  or  so  much  as  glanced  at,  in  that  Commission ;  the 
Commission  only  saying,  *'  That  the  said  archbishop  could  not  at  that 
present  in  his  own  person  attend  those  services  which  were  otherwise 


Digitized  by 


Google 


500  AFFBAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCSNCS.       FART  III. 

fgofei  fo  his  cogmsaiioe  ttid  jurisdiedon ;  and  which,  as  arehl^shop 
of  Gaaterbuiy,  he  mii^l  aad  ought  in  his  own  person  to  hare  per^ 
foimed  and  ezoGatcd."  I  am  loath  to  rab  longer  on  this  soxe,  the 
point  haying  been  so'  rcxed  already  betwixt  the  Histoiian  and  tilie 
Obaerralor,  that  I  shall  not  trouble  it  anj  further. 

FuLLEE. — ^I  confess,  casual  homicide  not  expressly  mentioned, 
but  implied,  in  the  Commission.  Otherwise  what  did  those  woids 
import,  ^^oouldnat  in  his  person  attend?^  It  was  not  any  indisposition 
ef  body,-*-being  then,  and  some  years  after,  in  healdi ;  not  impo* 
tency  in  his  intellect,  (caused  from  the  influeoce  of  age,}  who  afte^ 
^vards,  when  older,  dischaiged  this  place,  as  the  Animadyertor 
eonfesseih.  Though  therefore  the  hilt  of  homicide  was  only  shown, 
the  blade  was  shaken  in  the  sheath.  Sure  I  am,  that  some,  the 
nearest  about  the  archbishop,  haye  informed  me,  that  he  interpreted 
that  UK-covLDiKc  him,  solely  to  relate  to  his  canonical  irregularity 
on  the  accident  aforesaid,  and  was  dejected  accordingly. 

Dr.  HBTLiN.«-OiiIy  I  must  craye  leaye  to  rectify  our  author  iit 
another  passage,  relating  to  that  sad  accident* 

Fuller.— -7b  rectify  is  ^Uo  make  that  straight  which  vtbs 
crooked  before  ;*^  and  it  is  an  act  of  no  less  charity,  than  skill  and 
cunning,  well  to  perform  it.  Only  fools  can  be  fond  of  their  own 
deformity*  I  do  not  only  desire,  but  delight,  to  haye  the  crooked-* 
ness  of  my  knowledge  straightened,  provided  always  it  be  done  in 
the  spirit  of  meekness.  But  I  understand,  such  as  straighten 
crooked  persons  beyond  the  seas  put  them  to  much  torture,  I 
likewise  fear,  that  the  Animadvertor  will  lay  so  much  weight  of  ill 
words  upon  me,  that  the  profit  I  shall  reap  will  not  countervail  the 
pain  I  must  endure  in  my  rectification.    Our  author  saith  : — 

237.  Db.  Heyun.  "  For  which,"  saith  he,  "  it  would  be  of  danger^ 
ous  con8eg[uence  to  condemn  him  by  the  Canons  of  foreign  Councils, 
which  were  never  allowed  any  legislatiye  power  in  this  land.*  (Ch, 
Hist.  yol.  iii.  p.  3«50.)  Which  words  are  yery  ignorantly  spoken,  or 
else  very  improperly. 

FuLLEB,-^Did  I  not  foretell  aright,  that  my  rectification  would 
cost  me  dear  ?  even  the  burden  of  bad  words.  Here  I  have  a 
doleful  dilemma  presented  unto  me,  to  confess  myself  speaking 
either  very  ifffiorantiy  or  very  improperly.  But  might  not  one  of 
these  two  verys  have  yery  well  been  spared?  Well,  e  malts 
minimwn ;  if  it  must  be  so,  that  my  choice  must  be  of  one  of 
these,  let  it  be  rather  but  impropriety  than  ignorance. 

But,  reader,  I  see  no  necessity  of  acknowledging  either,  but  tbat 
my  words  are  both  knowingly  and  properly  spoken ;  and  now  to 
the  trial. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.    567 

i>ii.  HEYLiN.-^For  if  by  ^'legblatire  power**  he  means  ^^apowet 
of  makiiig  laws,*  as  the  word  doth  intiinate,  then  it  is  true,  that  the 
Canons  of  foreign  Councils  had  never  any  such  power  within  this 
land.     But  if  by  ^'  legislative  power  "  he  means  ^'  a  power  or  capability 
of  passing  for  laws  within  this  kingdom ;"  then  (though  he  use  the 
word  improperly)  it  is  very  false,  that  no  such  Canons  were  in  force 
in  the  realm  of  England.     The  Canons  of  many  foreign  Councils, 
general,  national,  and  provincial,  had  been  received  in  this  church, 
and  incorporated  into  the  body  of  the  Canon  Law,  by  which  the 
church  proceeded  in  the  exercise  of  her  jurisdiction,  till  the  submis* 
sion  of  the  clergy  to  king  Henry  YIII.     And,  in  the  Ajct  confirmative 
of  that  submission,  it  is  said  expressly,  '^  That  all  Canons,  Constitu- 
tions, (Ordinances,  and  Synodals  provincial,  as  were  made  before  the 
said  submission,  which  be  not  contrary  or  repugnant  to  the  laws, 
statutes,  and  customs  of  this  realm,  nor  to  the  damage  or  hurt  of  the 
king's  prerogative  royal,  were  to  be  used  and  executed  as  in  former 
times,"  25  Henry  YIII.  c.  19.     So  that  unless  it  can  be  proved,  that 
the  proceedings  in  this  case,  by  the  Canons  of  foreign  Councils,  were 
either  ^'  contrary  or  repugnant  to  the  laws  and  customs  of  the  realm, 
or  to  the  damage  of  the  king's  prerogative  roya],\ there  is  no  danger* 
ous  consequence  at  all  to  be  found  therein. 

Fuller. — By  ^"^  legislative  power  of  the  Canons  of  foreign 
Councils,'*  I  understand  "  their  power  to  subject  the  people  of  our 
nation  to  guiltiness,  and  consequently  to  penalties,  if  found  infringe 
ing  them.**  Now  I  say  again,  Such  foreign  Canons,  though  not 
against  but  only  besides  our  Common  Law,  and  containing  no 
repugnancy  but  disparateness  to  the  laws  of  our  land,  either  never 
bad  such  power  in  England  since  the  Reformation,  or  else 
disuse  long  since  hath  antiquated  it,  as  to  the  rigid  exercise 
thereof. 

For  instance :  A  bishop,  I  am  sure,  and,  I  think  a  priest  too,  is, 
in  the  old  Canons,  rendered  irregular  for  playing  a  game  at  tables ; 
dice  being  forbidden  by  the  Canons.  Yet  I  conceive,  it  would  be 
hard  measure,  and  a  thing,  de  faotOy  never  done,  that  such  irregu* 
larity  should  be  charged  on  him  on  that  account. 

We  know  it  was  the  project  of  the  pope  and  papal  party,  to  mul- 
tiply Canons  in  Councils,  merely  to  make  the  more  men — and  men 
the  mor^-— obnoxious  unto  him,  that  they  might  rc-purchase  their 
innocence  at  the  price  of  the  Court  of  Rome.  I  believe,  the  Ani- 
madvertor  himself  would  be  loath  to  have  his  canonicalness  tried  by 
the  test  of  all  old  Canons,  made  in  rigorem  diseiplinWy  yet  not 
contrariant  to  our  laws  and  customs ;  seeing  they  are  so  nice  and 
numerous  that  cautiousness  itself  may  be  found  an  offender  therein. 
I  resume  my  words, — that  it  would  be  of  dangerous  consequence  to 
condemn  the  archbishop  by  Canons  of  foreign  Councils,  which 


Digitized  by 


Google 


568  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE*  PART  III. 

neyer  obtained  power  here,  either  quo(»d  recUumy  or  poenamy  of  such 
as  did  not  observe  them. 

238.  Db.  Heylin. — Bat  whereas  our  aniior  add%  in  some  follow- 
ing words,  that ''  eyer  since"  (he  means  ever  since  the  nnliappy  acd^ 
dent)  **he  had  executed  his  jurisdiction  without  anj  interruption;'' 
(Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  350 ;)  I  must  needs  add,  that  he  is  Tcry  mudi 
mistaken  in  this  particular.  Dr.  Williams,  lord  elect  of  Lincoln ;  Dr. 
Carew,  lord  elect  of  Exeter ;  and  Dr.  Laud,  lord  elect  of  St.  David's, 
and,  I  think,  some  others,  refusing  to  receive  episcopal  oonBecration 
from  him  upon  that  account. 

Fuller. — Mast  the  Animadvertor  needs  ctdd  this  f  I  humbly 
conceive  no  such  necessity,  being  but  just  the  same  which  I  myself 
had  written  before  :— 

"  Though  some  squeamish  and  nice-conscienced  Elects  scrupled 
to  be  consecrated  ty  him."'  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  288.) 

But  I  beheld  this  as  no  effectual  interrupting  of  his  jurisdiction ; 
because  other  bishops,  more  in  number,  (no  whit  their  inferior,} 
received  consecration,  (Dr.  Davenant,  Dr.  Hall,)  and  king  Charles 
himself  his  coroifation,  from  him. 

239.  Dr.  Hetlin. — Far  more  mistaken  is  our  author  in  the  next, 
in  which  he  telleth  us  :  ''  Though  this  archbishop  survived  some  years 
^er,  yet  henceforward  he  was  buried  to  the  world."  (Idem^  yoL  iii. 
p.  350.)  No  such  matter  neither.  For,  though  for  a  while  he  stood 
confined  to  his  house  at  Ford,  yet  neither  this  confinement  nor  that 
Commission  was  of  long  continuance;  for,  about  Christmas,  in  the 
year  1628,  he  was  restored  both  to  his  liberty  ^d  to  his  jurisdiction, 
sent  for  to  come  unto  the  Court,  received  as  he  came  out  of  his  barge 
by  the  archbishop  of  York  and  the  earl  of  Dorset,  and  by  them  cour 
ducted  to  the  king;  who,  giving  him  his  hand  to  kiss,  enjoined  him 
not  to  fail  the  Counpil-table  twice  a-week.  After  which  time  we  find 
him  sitting  as  archbiishop  in.,  the  following  Parliament,  and  in  the  full 
exercise  of  his  jurisdiction  till  the  day  of  his  death,  which  happened 
upon  Sunday,  August  4th,  1633,     And  so  much  for  him. 

Fu]pLEQ..-^An  Historian  may  make  this  exception,  but  not  a 
divine ;  my  words  being  spoken  in  the  language  of  the  apostle ; 
"  The  world  is  crucified  unto  me,  and  I  unto  the  world,'*  Gal. 
vi.  14.  I  bad  said  formerly,  that  "  the  Keeper'^s  death  was  this 
archbishop's  mortification."  But  from  this  his  suspension  (from 
the  exercise  of  his  jurisdiction)  he  was  in  his  own  thoughts  buried, 
H  reviving  his  obnoxiousness  for  his  former  casual  homicide;  so 
that  never  he  w|ig  seen  heartily  (if  at  all)  to  laugh  hereafter, 
though  I  deny  not,  much  court-favour  was  afterwards  (on  design) 
fonferred  on  him. 

Here,  I  hope,  it  will  be  no  oifence  to  insert  this  innocent  story, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORt,  BOOK  XI.     560 

partly  to  show  how  quickly  tender-guiltiness  is  dejected,  partly 
to  make  folk  cautious,  how  they  cast  out  galling  speeches  in  this 
kind.  This  archbishop  returning  to  Croydon,  (after  his  late  absence 
thence  a  long  time,)  many  people,  most  women,  (whereof  some  of 
good  quality  for  good-will,)  for  novelty  and  curiosity  crowded 
about  his  coach.  The  archbishop,  being  unwilling  to  be  gazed  at, 
and  never  fond  of  females,  said,  somewhat  churlishly,  "  What  make 
these  women  here  ? ''  "  You  had  best,''  said  one  of  them,  "  to 
shoot  an  arrow  at  us.*"  I  need  not  tell  the  reader  how  near  thU 
second  arrow  went  to  his  heart.     Our  author  goeth  on  :^- 

240,241.  Dr.  Heylin. — "My  pen,  passing  by  them  at  the  pre- 
sent, may  safely  salute  them  with  a  ^  God-speed,'  as  neither  seeing  nor 
suspecting  any  danger  in  the  design."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  362.) 
Our  author  speaks  this  of  the  feoffees,  appointed  by  themselves,  for 
buying-in  such  impropriations  as  were  then  in  the  hands  of  lay  per- 
43ons.  I  say,  "appointed  by  themselves;"  because  not  otherwise 
authorized,  either  by  charter  from  the  king,  decree  in  Chancery,  or  by 
Act  of  Parliament ;  but  only  by  a  secret  combination  of  the  brother- 
hood, to  advance  their  projects.  For  though  our  author  tells  us,  that 
"  they  were  legally  settled  in  trust"  to  make  such  purchases;  (Idem^ 
vol.  iii.  p.  361 ;)  yet  there  is  more  required  to  a  legal  settlement,  than 
the  consent  of  some  few  persons  amongst  themselves:  for  want 
whereof,  this  combination  was  dissolved,  the  feoffees  in  some  danger  of 
sentence,  and  the  impropriations  by  them  purchased  adjudged  to  the 
king,  on  a  full  hearing  of  the  cause  in  the  Court  of  Exhequer,  anno 
1632.  Howsoever,  our  author  "  wishes  them  '  God-speed,'  as  neither 
seeing  nor  suspecting  any  danger  in  their  design ; "  but  other  men  as 
ipvise  as  he  did  not  only  suspect  but  see  the  danger.  And  this  our 
author  might  see  also,  if  zeal  to  the  good  cause  had  not  darkened  the 
eyes  of  his  understanding. 

.  For,  First,  the  parties  trusted  in  the  managing  of  this  design  were 
of  such  affections  as  promised  no  good  unto  the  peace  and  happiness  of 
:the  church  of  England.  Their  names  our  author  truly  gives  us,  "  four 
ministers,  four  Common-Lawyers,  and  four  citizens ; "  men  not  unknown, 
to  such  as  then  lived  and  observed  the  conduct  of  affairs,  to  be  averse 
unto  the  discipline  of  the  church  tl\en  by  law  established.  And  if 
such  pubUc  mischiefs  be  presaged  by  astrologers  from  the  conjunction 
of  Jupiter  and  Saturn,  though  the  first  of  them  be  a  planet  of  a  most 
sweet  and  gentle  influence ;  what  dangers,  what  calamities  might  not 
be  feared  from  the  conjunction  of  twelve  such  persons,  of  which  there 
was  not  one  that  wished  weU  to  the  present  government?  And 
therefore  I  may  say  of  them  as  Domitius  ^nobarbus  said  unto  his 
friends,  when  they  came  to  congratulate  with  him  for  the  birth  of 
Nero  :  Nihil  ex  se  et  Agrippind  nisi  deteslahile  et  malo  publico  nasci 
potuisse,* 

•    •  Suetonius,  De  Nerone^ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


570  APPBAL  OF  INJUKBD  INKOCBNCB.  PAKT  III. 

But,  Seccmdlj,  tliis  wiU  fbiiher  i^pear  bj  their  proceedings  in'  the 
bnnness;  not  laying  the  impropriationfiy  by  them  purchased,  to  the 
church  OK  dbapehy  to  which  ihey  had  anciently  belonged  ;  nor  settling 
them  on  the  incumbent  of  the  place,  as  many  hoped  tbey  would* 
That  had  been  utterly  destructiye  to  their  main  design ;  which  was  not 
to  adTantage  the  regular  and  established  clergy,  but  to  set  up  a  new 
body  of  Lecturers  in  oonyenient  places,  for  the  promoting  of  the  cause. 
And  therefore,  haying  bought  an  impropriation,  they  parcelled  it  out 
into  annual  pensions  of  forty  or  fifty  pounds  per  annum^  and  therewith 
salaried  some  Lecturers  in  such  market-towns,  wheie  the  people  had 
commonly  less  to  do,  and  consequently  were  moi«  apt  to  feotkn  and 
innoYation  than  in  other  places.  Our  author  notes  it  of  their  predeces- 
sors, in  CartwrightTs  days,  that  they  preached  most  diligently  in  populous 
places ;  *^  it  being  obsenred  in  England,  that  those  who  hold  the  heha 
of  the  pulpit  always  steer  people's  hearts  as  they  please."  (Ch.  Hist 
Tol.  iii.  p.  101.)  And  he  notes  it  also  of  these  feoffees,  that,  in  con- 
formity hereunto,  they  set  up  a  preaching  ministry  in  places  of  great- 
est need ;  not  in  such  parish-churches  to  which  the  tithes  properly 
belonged,  but  where  they  thought  the  word  was  most  wanting,  that  is 
to  say,  most  wanting  to  advance  their  project 

Thirdly.  If  we  behold  the  men  whom  they  made  choice  of,  and 
employed  in  preaching  in  such  market*towns  as  they  had  an  eye  on, 
either  because  most  populous,  or  because  capable  of  electing  buigesses 
to  senre  in  Parliament,  they  were  for  the  most  part  Nonconformists, 
and  sometimes  such  as  had  been  silenced  by  their  ordinary,  or  the 
High-Commission,  for  their  fiictious  carriage.  And  such  an  one  was 
placed  by  Geering,  one  of  the  citizen-feoffees,  in  a  town  of  Gloucester- 
shire ;  a  fellow  which  had  been  outed  of  a  Lecture  near  Sandwich  by 
the  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  out  of  another  in  Middlesex  by  the 
bishop  of  London,  out  of  a  third  in  Yorkshire  by  the  archbishop  of 
York,  out  of  a  fourth  in  Hertfordshire  by  the  bishop  of  Lincoln,  and 
finally  suspended  from  his  ministry  by  the  High-Commission;  yet 
thought  the  fittest  man  by  Geering  (as  indeed  he  was)  to  begin  tiiis 
lecture. 

Fourthly  and  finally.  These  pensions  neither  were  so  settled,  nor 
these  Lecturers  so  well  established  in  their  several  places,  but  that  the 
one  might  be  withdrawn,  and  the  other  removed,  at  the  will  and  plea* 
sure  of  their  patrons,  if  they  grew  slack  and  negligent  in  "  the  holy 
cause,"  or  abated  any  thing  at  all  of  that  fire  and  fury  they  first  brought 
with  them.  Examples  of  which  I  know  some,  and  have  heard  of 
more.  And  now  I  would  fein  know  of  our  author,  whether  there  be 
no  danger  to  be  seen  or  suspected  in  this  design;  Tdiether  these 
feoffees  in  short  time  would  not  have  had  more  chaplains  to  depend 
upon  them,  than  all  the  bishops  in  the  kingdom ;  and,  finally,  whether 
such  needy  fellows,  depending  on  the  will  and  pleasure  of  their  gra- 
cious masters,  must  not  be  forced  to  preach  such  doctrines  only  as  best 
please  their  humours.     And  though  I  shall  say  nothing  here  of  their 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVEI^IONS  ON  THE  CfiURCH-HISTOEY,  BOOK  XI.      571 

^ving  underhand  priyate  pennons,  not  only  unto  such  m  had  been 
iBilenced  or  suspended  in  the  ecclesiastical  courts,  but  many  times  also 
to  their  wives  and  children  after  their  decease,  all  issuing  firom  this 
common  stock :  yet  others  have  beheld  it  as  the  greatest  piece  of  mt 
cuid  artifice  both  to  encourage  and  increase  their  emissaries,  which 
eould  be  possibly  deyised.  If,  as  our  author  tells  us,  "  the  design  was 
generally  approred,  and  that  both  discreet  and  deyout  men  were  dole* 
fill  at  the  ruin  of  so  pious  a  project;"  (Ch.  Hist  vol.  iii.  p.  372;) 
it  was  because  they  neither  did  suspect  the  danger,  nor  foresee  the 
mischiefs,  which  unavoidably  must  have  followed,  if  not  crushed  in 
time« 

FuLLEE. — ^The  feoffees  being  now  all  dead,  save  one,*  I  may  say 
that  m  this  suit  all  the  counsel  is  for  the  plaintiff,  and  none  allowed 
the  defendant.  Were  any  number  of  them  still  alive,  probably 
they  might  plead  something  in  defence  of  their  proceedings. 

However,  I  believe,  this  narrative  of  the  Animadvertor  hath  veiy 
much  of  truth  therein ;  and  seeing  it  is  not  opposite,  but  additional^ 
to  what  I  have  written,  my  answer  is  not  required  thereunto.  Only 
the  dose  thereof  treadeth  on  the  toes  of  my  History,  and  that  but 
lightly  too;  the  Animadvertor  not  denying,  ''that  discreet  and 
devout  men  were  doleful  at  the  ruin  of  so  pious  a  project.'^  And 
seeing  he  went  so  far  with  my  words,  would  he  had  gone  a  little 
farther,  and  added,  that  such  good  men  ''  were  desirous  of  a  regula* 
tion  of  this  design  C  it  being  pity  that  so  fair  a  tree  should  be  rent 
up  root  and  branch,  for  bearing  bad— -which  might  and  would  have 
borne  better-^fruit,  with  a  little  good  digging  about  it,  and  well 
husbanding  thereof.-f*    Our  author  proceeds ;-—     ^ 

243.  Dr.  Heylin. — "However,  there  was  no  express  in  Air 
Declaration,  that  the  ministers  of  the  parish  should  be  pressed  to  the 
publishing."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  3770  Our  author  doth  here  change 
bis  style.  He  *had  before  told  us,  that,  on  the  first  publishing  of  the 
Declaration  about  lawful  sports  on  the  Lord's  day,  no  minister  was,  de 
facto,  enjoined  to  read  it  in  his  parish ;  (Idem,  vol.  iii.  p.  273 ;)  and 
here  he  tells  us,  that  there  was  no  express  order  in  the  Declaration, 
(when  revived  by  king  Charles,)  that  the  minister  of  the  parish  should 
be  pressed  to  the  publishing  of  it ;  adding  withal,  that  many  thought 
it  a  more  proper  work  for  the  constable  or  tithing-man,  than  it  was  for 
the  minister.  But  if  our  author  mark  it  well,  he  may  easily  find,  that 
the  Dedaiation  of  king  James  was  commanded  to  be  published  "  by 
order  from  the  bishop  of  the  diocess,  through  all  the  parish  dLurcbes" 


*  I  am  infbrmed,  C.  0£Gq[)iiDg  is  still  alire.  t  A  project^  simflar  in  many  of  iti 

features,  has  been  recently  carried  into  effect,  by  the  late  Rey.  Charles  Simeon,  the 
venerated  Fellow  of  King's  College,  Cambridge,  and  others  his  co-adjuton  \  and  seems 
to  have  excited  very  little  alanu.— :£piT. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


572  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PARt  III 

of  his  jurisdiction  ;  *  and  the  Delaration  of  king  Cliarles,  to  be  pub- 
lished, with  like  order  ^*  from  the  seyeral  bishops,  through  all  the 
parish  churches  of  their  seyeral  diocesses  respectivelj.''t  The  bUhop 
of  the  diocess  in  the  singular  number,  in  the  Declaration  of  king 
James,  because  it  principally  related  to  the  county  of  Lancaster ;  the 
bishops  in  the  plural  number,  in  that  of  king  Charles,  because  the 
benefit  of  it  was  to  be  extended  over  all  the  realm.  In  both,  the 
bishops  are  commanded  to  take  order  for  the  publishing  of  them  in 
their  several  parishes ;  and  whom  could  they  require  to  publish  them 
in  the  parish  churches,  but  the  ministers  only  ?  The  constable  is  a 
lay-officer,  merely  bound  by  his  place  to  execute  the  warrants  and 
commands  of  the  Justices,  but  not  of  the  Bishop.  And  diough  the 
tithing^man  hare  some  relation  to  church-matters,  and  consequently  to 
the  bishop,  in  the  way  of  presentments ;  yet  was  he  not  bound  to 
execute  any  such  commands,  because  not  tied  by  an  oath  of  canonical 
•obedience,  as  the  ministers  were.  So  that  the  bishops  did  no  more 
than  they  were  commanded,  in  laying  the  publication  of  these  Declara- 
tions on  the  backs  of  the  ministers ;  and  the  ministers,  by  doing  less 
than  they  were  required,  infringed  the  oath  which  they  had  taken, 
^rendering  themselves  thereby  obnoxious  to  all  such  ecclesiastical  cen- 
sures as  the  bishops  should  inflict  upon  them. 

FuLLEE. — I  said,  that  there  was  no  express  order  in  the  Decla- 
lation,  that  the  minister  of  the  parish  should  be  pressed  to  the  pub- 
lishing of  it. 

Now  the  Animadvertor  hath  done  me  the  favour  to  prove  my 
words  to  be  true,  acknowledging  the  Declaration  only  enjoined, 
"  that  the  bishop  of  the  diocess  should  order  the  publishing  thereof, 
through  all  the  parishes  in  his  jurisdiction :  ^  and  so  consequently 
(as  the.  Animadvertor  in/erretkj  the  ministers  must  do  it.  Hereby 
the  truth  of  my  words  do  appear,  that  there  was  no  express  com- 
mand, seeing  an  express  and  an  inference  are  two  things  of  a  differ- 
ent nature.  * 

Whereas  I  said,  **  that  many  thought  it  a  more  .proper  work  for 
the  constable  or  tithing-man,  than  for  the  minister  ;"*'  there  are 
thousands  now  aliv.e  which  will  justify  the  truth  thereof.  Yea, 
their  thoughts  (which  otherwise  I  confess^  came  not  under  my  cog- 
iiizance)  expressed  themselves  in  their  words,  wherewith  they 
affirmed  and  professed  the  same. 

244—246.  Db.  Heylin. — It  seems  that,  in  our  author's  judgment, 
it  was  well  done  by  the  Judges  for  the  county  of  Somerset,  to  impose 
upon  the  ministers  of  that  county  (over  whom  they  could  challenge  no 
authority)  to  publish  their  own  Declarations  against  wakes  and  feasts ; 
and  that  it  was  well  done  of  the  ministers  to  obey  the  same,  for  which 

•  "  Declaration  about  Sports,"  p.  14.  f  Idem,  p.  17. 

Digitized  by  CjOOQ IC 


ANIMADVEESIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORV,  BOOK  XI.     §73 

s6e  Oh.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  376.  These  bishops  are  beholden  to  hiift,  for 
^ving  greater  power  to  the  Judges  and  Justices  over  his,  brethren  of 
the  clergy;  than  he  yields  to  them ;  and  as  much  beholden  are  the 
clergy^  for  putting  so  many  masters  over  them,  instead  of  a  father* 
The  difference  of  the  case  will  not  serve  the  turn ;  the  king  having  n 
greater  power  to  indulge  such  freedom  to  his  subjects,  than  the  others 
could  pretend  unto,  to. restrain  them  from  it.  If  he  object,  that  ^'  the 
ministers  are  most  unfit  to  hold  the  candle  to  lighten  and  let-in  licen-i 
tiousness,"  as  he  seems  to  do ;  he  must  first  prove,  that  all  or  any  of 
the  sports  allowed  of  in  those  Declarations  may  be  brought  within  the 
compass ,  of  licentiousness ;  which  neither  the  word  of  God,  nor  the 
Canons  of  the  Christian  church,  nor  any  Statutes  of  the  realm  had 
before  forbidden.  Lastly.  Whereas  he  tells  us,  that  ^'because  the 
Judges  had  enjoined  the  ministers  to  read  their  order  in  the  church, 
the  king's  Declaration  was  enforced  by  the  bishops  to  be  published  by 
them  in  the  same  place ; "  there  is  no  such  matter.  The  Declaration 
of  king  James  appointed  to  be  read,  and  read  by  order  of  the  bishop 
in  the  parish  churches,  doth  evince  die  contrary. 

Fuller. — I  did  not  say,  the  Judges  did  well,  or  did  ill  therein  ; 
but  I  said,  the  Judges  did  order  that  the  ministers  should  publish 
their  Declaration  against  wakes  and  feasts.  I  have  not  (nor  can 
quickly  procure)  a  copy  of  their  Order,  whether  it  were  mauda^ 
tory,  or,  by  way  of  advice,  did  desire  ministers  to  do  that  which 
might  be  advantageous  to  religion.  But  I  will  not  judge  the 
Judges,  but  leave  them  (as  best-skilled  in  their  own  faculty)  to 
make  good  their  own  acts. 

If  such  grandees  in  the  law  exceeded  their  bounds  in  this  their 
injunction  to  ministers,  (over  whom  .they  had  no  command,)  how 
many  mistakes  should  I  run  into,  if  once  offering  to  meddle  with 
this  matter,  being  out  of  my  profession  !  And  therefore  no  more 
thereof. 

247.  Dr.  Heylin. — Now,  for  our  author  s  better  satisfaction  in  the 
present  point,  I  shall  lay  down  the  judgment  of  one  so  high  in  his  esteem, 
(and  once  in  the  esteem  of  that  party  too,)  that  I  conceive  he  will  not 
offer  to  gainsay  him.  It  is  the  author  of  the  book  called,  "  The  Holy 
Table,  Name  and  Thing,'*  who  resolves  it  thus :  "  All  the  commands  of 
the  king,"  saith  he,  ^\  that  are  not  upon  the  first  inference  and  illation 
(without  any  prosyllogisms)  contrary  to  a  clear  passage  in  the  word  of 
God,  or  to  an  evident  sunbeam  of  the  law  of  nature,  are  precisely  to  be 
obeyed.  Nor  is  it  enough  to  find  a  remote  and  possible  inconvenience 
that  may  ensue  therefrom ;  (which  is  the  ordinary  objection  against 
the  Book  of  Recreations;)  for  every  good  subject  is  bound  in  con- 
science to  believe  and  rest  assured,  that  his  prince  (environed  with 
such  a  Council)  will  be  more  able  to  discover,  and  as  ready  to  prevent, 
any  ill  sequel  that  may  come  of  it,  as  himself  possibly  can  be.     And 


Digitized  by 


Google 


574  AFPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PAftT  III. 


Aentate  I  miitt  not  bj  diioliejmg  my  piiaoe  odniiiiit  a  certain  nn^  id 
pi0f«ntiiig  a  probaUe  Iraft  eontbigeiit  inoonTaiien^.'' *  Hus,  if  it 
were  good  doctrine  Aen,  when  both  the  anilior  and  die  bo(^  wero 
cried  up  eyen  to  adminAioii,  if  not  to  be  xejected  as  &lae  doctrine 
now ;  troth  being  constant  to  itsd^  not  Taxyii^  nor  altering  with  tb« 
change  of  times. 

FuLLEE. — ^I  want  no  satisbction,  I  thank  God,  in  the  point ; 
and  therefore  the  Animadvertor  might  haye  spared  his  pains.  As 
an  Historian,  I  haye  tnilj  related,  de  facto,  what  was  done ;  and 
though  the  Animadyertor  may  conjecture  at  my  judgment  in  this 
controyersy,  he  cannot  be  confident  thereof  by  any  thing  I  ha?e 
written. 

All  I  will  add  is  this :  Because  I  may  write  the  more,  I  will 
write  the  less,  of  this  subject.  I  haye  good  power  to  hack  me  for 
the  present  in  this  contioferiy,  and  might  securely  express  myself 
therein. 

When  my  text  shall  lead  me  in  my  yocation  to  treat  of  the 
obseryatioQ  of  the  Lord^s  day,  I  shall  not  be  sparing  to  express  mj 
opinion  therein,  and  will  endeavour  (Ood  willing)  to  justify  it« 
Meantime,  I  will  not  go  out  of  mine  own  house,  which  is  my 
castle ;  I  mean,  I  will  not  be  drawn  out  into  the  open  field  of  a 
controyersy,  but  keep  myself  under  this  cover, — ^that  matten  of 
fitct  in  this  difference  haye  been  truly  rdated  by  me :  and  let  the 
Animadyertor  disprove  it,  if  he  can. 

.  248.  Dr,  Hetlin. — ^But  our  author  will  not  stop  here,  he  goes  on 
and  saith,— - 

*'  Many  moderate  men  are  of  opinion,  that  this  abuse  of  the  Lord's 
day  was  a  principal  procurer  of  God's  anger,  since  poured  out  on  this 
land  in  a  long  and  bloody  civil  war/'  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  378.)  And 
moderate  perhaps  they  may  be  in  apparel,  diet,  and  the  like  ciril  acts 
of  life  and  conyersation ;  but,  sure,  immoderate  enough  in  this  obserra' 
tion.  "  For  who  hath  known  the  mind  of  the  Lord,  or  who  hath  been 
his  counsellor?"  saith  the  great  apostle.  But  it  is  as  common,  with 
some  men  of  the  newest  religions,  to  ascribe  .God's  secret  judgments  to 
some  special  reasons,  as  if  they  had  the  key  which  opens  into  his 
cabinet  at  their  several  girdles ;  as  if  they  were  admitted  to  all  con- 
sultations in  the  Comi;  of  heaven,  before  that  *dreadful  Judge  conld 
inflict  any  temporal  punishment  upon  men  on  earth.  Otherwise  they 
might  find  the  nation  guilty  of  too  many  sins,  which  drew  down  this 
vengeance,  to  ascribe  it  unto  any  one  sin ;  (if  a  sin  it  were ;)  and 
rather  wonder  at  God's  mercy,  patience,  and  longsu£fering,  in  deferring 
his  punishments  long,  than  that  he  inflicted  them  at  last. 

PuLLKE. — I  behold  them  as  "moderate  men''  in  all  respects. 

•  **  Holy  Table,"  c.  iv.  p.  68. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCHHISTORY,  BOOK  XI.      575 

The  Animadvfirtoi:  hath  used  my  words,  as  the  king  of  Ammon 
dealt  with  the  clothes  of  David'^s  ambassadors,  even  catting  them 
off  at  the  middle,  2  Sam,  x,  4.  Otherwise,  might  they  hare  but 
hung  down  to  the  ground,  no  nakedness  had  appeared  in  what  I 
have  written,  proceeding  as  foHoweth  :— 

"Such  moderate  men  observe,  that  our  fights  of  chief  concern- 
ment, (Edge-hill,  &c.)  were  often  fought  on  the  Lord^s  day,  as 
pointing  at  the  punishing  of  the  profanation  thereof."''  (Ch.  Hist, 
vol.  iii.  p.  378.) 

See  here  the  reason  assigned  of  their  opinion,  as  I  received  it 
from  their  mouths.  Since,  they  say,  It  is  one  thing  with  the  Beth- 
shemites  to  pry  into  the  ark,  and  another  thing  to  look  on  God's 
secrets,  in  some  sort  unsecreted,  when,  by  the  proportion  of  his 
judgments,  he  saith,  ^'  Come  and  see."^  These  also  allege  for  them^ 
selves,  that  the  patriarchs,  sensible  of  their  hard  usage  from  the 
governor  of  Egypt,  did  not  pry  into  God^s  mystical  pleasure,  when 
concluding  it  inflicted  on  them  for  their  cruelty  to  their  brother 
Joseph  :  "Therefore  is  this  distress  come  upon  us,*'  Gen.  xlii.  21. 
However,  I  wholly  concur  with  the  Animadvertor  in  his  last  sen- 
tence, as  truly  and  savourily  written.  Only  I  dissent  firom  him,  in 
that  passage ;  (if  a  sin  it  were ;)  surely,  he  meaneth  not,  *^  If  the 
pTofitnation  of  the  Lord's  day  were  a  sin,*"  which  is  above  all  ifs. 
Rather  his  sense  is,  "  If  the  using  of  such  sports  were  a  profanation 
of  the  Lord's  day." 

But  men's  corruption  is  more  prone  to  acquit  themselves  when 
guilty,  than  to  suspect  themselves  when  guiltless. 

ParcCf  precovy  stimuUt,  etfortitt*  utere  hrU, 

"  Spun,  1  pray,  leirain  ; 
Rather  tuse  the  rein." 

I  need  not  mind  the  Animadvertor,  how  penal  it  is  by  the  late 
Act  for  any  to  write  any  thing  against  the  strict  observation  of  the 
Lord's  day ;  and  believe  he  intended  nothing  prejudicial  to  the 
same:  yet  profaneness  probably  too  soon  (besides  his  intention) 
may  improve  itself  on  his  words,  alter  his  si  into  non  ;  and,  by  the 
next  return^  turn  his  note  of  dubitation  into  an  absolute  negation, 
on  which  account  the  parenthesis  had  been  better  forborne,  in  my 
opinion. 

Db»  Heylin. — ^And  though  our  author  doth  object  agsunst  this 
opinion  of  those  moderate  men,  that  '^  to  pick  a  solemn  providence  out 
of  a  common  casualty,  savours  more  of  curiosity  than  conscience,"  yet 
he  dares  not  stand  to  it ;  confessing  within  few  lines  after,  that  *'  there 
may  be  more  in  the  observation  than  what  many  are  willing  to 
acknowledge."   (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  370.)     If  so,  there  may  be  as 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


576  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCR.       PART  III. 

much  conscience  as  curiosity  in  those  moderate  men,  of  whom  (Air 
anther  tells  us  further,  that,—* 

Fuller. — As  I  stand  not  whoUj  to  it,  so  I  run  not  any  whil; 
away  from  it,  but  dubiously  propound  it,  hoping  the  reader  will 
account  me  not  the  less  (onstant  in  my  judgment,  but  the  more 
cautious  in  my  language,  in  not  being  positive  in  an  observation  of 
this  nature.    Our  author  proceeds  :— 

249.  Dr.  Hetlix. — ^^  If  moderate  men  had  had  the  managing  of 
these  matters  about  the  posture  of  the  Lord's  board,  (call  it  table  or 
altar,)  the  accommodation  had  been  easy  with  a  little  condescension 
on  both  sides.**  (Ch.  Hist.  rol.  iii.  p.  382.)  Why  then  did  not  these 
moderate  men  interpose  themselves  for  taking  off  those  ^^  needless 
animosities,"  and  putting  an  end  unto  the  quarrel  ?  The  press  was 
open  on  both  sides;  John  Lincoln,  dean  of  Westminster,  who 
appeared  so  strongly  in  the  cause,  thinking  himself  as  well-^tble  and 
well^qualified  to  license  a  book  unto  the  press,  as  either  the  archbii^p 
of  Canterbury,  or  the  bishop  of  London. 

Fuller.— I  said  it,  and  say  it  again,  and  any  who  have  honesty 
and  learning  (the  Animadvertor  only  excepted)  will  say  bo  too,— 
that  those  differences  were  easily  capable  of  ^^  accommodations  with 
a  little  condescension  on  both  sides/^  It  will  not  be  Ipng  before 
the  Animadvertor  will  tell  us,  that  the  controversies  betwixt  us  and 
the  church  of  Rome  (consisting  most,  as  he  saith,  in  super- 
structures) may  be  compromised.  <<And  if,^  to  use  his  own 
words,  ^'  the  petulancy  of  the  Puritans  on  the  one  side,  and  the 
pragmaticalness  of  the  Jesuits  on  the  other  side,  were  charmed 
awhile,  moderate  men  might  possibly  have  agreed  on  equal  terms.'^ 

Now  this  seeroeth  a  strange  thing  to  me,  that  moderation  may 
make  protestants  agree  with  papists  in  matters  doctrinal ;  and  can- 
not make  protestants  agree  with  protestants  in  matters  ceremonial. 
Being  the  same  plaster,  why  hath  it  not  equal  virtue  ?  especially, 
the  latter  being  the  lesser  wound.  Can  the  difference  of  transub- 
stantiation  be  taken  up  betwixt  us  and  the  papists,  and  not  the 
setting  of  the  communion-table  betwixt  ourselves  ?  Can  a  crack  be 
closed  in  a  Jewel,  and  a  rent  not  mended  in  the  Case  ?  *  These 
things,  I  confess,  transcend  my  apprehension. 

Now  that  no  moderate  man  stood  up  in  the  gap  to  make  up  this 

*  This  is  one  of  those  latent  innuendoes  which  axe  of  frequent  occurrence  in  Fuller's 
YTTitings,  and  which^  if  folly  explained,  would  drain  the  resources  of  the  hest-infoimed 
editor, — though  they  were  easily  comprehended  hy  his  contemporaries.  We  may  gain 
some  adequate  conception  of  hi«  double  meaning  in  this  sentence  when  we  recollect,  that 
JoBN  Jewel  was  one  of  the  ablest  defenders  of  the  church  of  England  in  matters  doe- 
trinal,  and  that  Thomas  Case  was  a  member  of  the  Assembly  of  Divines  at  Westmin- 
•ter,  an  amiable  man,  and  a  very  clever  champion  of  the  Presbyterians  in  matters  cere- 
monial aa  well  as  doctrinal.^ Edit* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.      577 

breach,  I  can  assign  no  other  cause  save,  that  God,  justly  offended 
with  our  nation,  had  not  so  great  a  favour  for  it,  but  suffered  a 
pustule  to  fester  into  an  ulcer ;  not  from  any  insanability  in  the 
sore,  but  from  want  of  seasonable  surgery ;  and  let  the  guilt  thereof 
(that  the  burden  may  be  the  better  borne)  be  equally  divided 
betwixt  both  parties  engaged  therein. 

Da.  Hetlin.— If  all  else  &iled,  why  did  not  our  author  undertake  it, 
and  make  himself  the  Moderator  in  that ''  trifling  controyersy,"  which 
seems  to  hare  been  so  ^^  easy"  to  be  brought  to  an  accommodation  ? 

FiTLLEB. — The  jeer  shall  go  for  nothing.  The  reason  why  the 
author  undertook  not  to  be  Moderator  in  the  difference,  was, 
because  he  was  *EX«;^iroVf  jpo^,  (and  if  there  be  a  more  subter-super- 
lative,)  "  the  least  of  the  least  of  his  brethren,''  Eph.  iii.  8.  How- 
ever, herein  the  author  comforteth  himself, — ^that  as  it  was  above  his 
power  to  cure,  so  it  was  against  his  will  to  widen,  the  wound ;  and 
being  quiet  in  his  calling,  concurred  not  to  the  inflaming  of  the 
mutual  animosities. 

Dr.  Hetlin. — Make  himself  the  Moderator  in  that  '^  trifling  con- 
troversy." 

t^ULLER. — The  Animadvertor's  un&ir  dealing  with  me  minds 
mt  of  a  passage  in  Cambridge.  One  made  a  (pretended)  extempo« 
rary  confutation  of  his  position  against  whom  he  disputed,  which 
indeed  was  only  premeditately  made  against  the  question,  confuting 
many  things  which  the  answerer  never  spake.  And  when  the 
atiswerer,  causelessly  charged,  pleaded  for  himself,  Nihil  tale  occur-- 
reb(xt  inporitione  med^  the  other  replied,  Debuit  occwrrere  taanen.  I 
never  said,  that  the  controversy  about  placing  of  the  communion- 
table was  a  trifling  controversy ;  but  it  seems  I  should  have  said  so, 
that  the  Animadvertor  might  have  had  an  advantage  against  me. 
This  I  said,  that  "  the  controversy  might  easily  have  been  recon- 
ciled with  mutual  moderation  C  but  "  trifling,^  I  never  termed  it. 
And  therefore,  the  Animadvertor  fighting  with  his  own  shadow,  it  is 
all  one  to  me  whether  he  beat  or  be  beaten. 

Yet  I  doubt  not  but  there  are  many  in  this  nation,  my  betters  in  all 
respects,  who  will  be  bold  to  call  it  "  a  trifling  controversy,"  if  not 
absolutely,  yet  comparatively,  to  many  doctrinal  differences  of  higher 
iconcemment ;  and,  in  respect  of  the  great  troubles  caused  thereby, 
far  above  the  considerableness  of  the  thing  which  was  in  contest. 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^The  question  was  about  the  placing  of  the  commu- 
nion-table, whether  it  ought  to  stand  in  the  middle  of  the  church,  or 
chancel,  with  one  end  towards  the  east  great  window,  like  a  common 
table;  or  close  up  to  the  eastern  wall,  with  ends  north  and  south, 
according  as  the  altars  had  been  placed  in  the  former  times.    They 


p  P 


Digitized  by 


Google 


578  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  III. 

that  maintained  the  last  opinion  had  anthoriij  for  it ;  tiiat  is  to  aay, 
the  Injunctions  of  the  qaeen,  anno  1599;  the  orders  and  adyertise- 
ments  of  the  years  1562  and  1565  ;  the  constant  practice  of  i^  diapels 
in  his  majes^s  houses,  most  of  the  cathedral  and  some  of  ike  paro- 
chial churches ;  and,  finally,  a  Declaration  of  the  king,  anno  1633, 
commending  a  conformity  in  the  parish  churches  to  their  own  cathe- 
drals. They  on  the  other  side  stood  chiefly  upon  discontiniiance ;  bat 
urged  witluJ,  that  some  Buhrics  in  the  Oommon^Fteyer  Book  seemed 
to  make  for  them.  So  that  the  question  being  seduced  to  a  matter  cf 
fact,  that  is  to  say^  ^  The  table  must  stand  tlus  way,  or  it  nmst  stand 
that  way;"  I  would  fain  know,  how  any  ^condescension"  xni^t  be 
made  on  either  side,  tending  to  an  accommodation,  or  wh^  ovr  Kode- 
lator  would  haye  done  to  at^-one  *  the  differences. 

FuLLE]^.— The  doctor  bath  clearly,  briefly,  and  truly  stated  the 
i;ontroversy,  whose  pen  w^s  formerly  conversant  therein  ;  and^  by  his 
own  acknowledgment,  both  sides  had  much  to  say  for  themselyes. 

Only  I  wonder,  that,  though  the  question  was  '*'  reduced  to  mat- 
ter of  &ct,^''  it  should  be  made  by  him  of  so  high  importance ; 
that  either  no  condescension  could  be  made  on  either  side»  or  such 
condescension  (if  made)  must  prove  ineffectual  as  to  an  accommo- 
dation. 

Is  there  no  balm  in  Gilead?  Hath  not  the  Spirit  of  God 
endowed  his  servants  with  such  discretion,  but  they  may  compro- 
joiise  a  difference  of  g^re^ter  moment  ? 

Dr.  Hetlin. — Suppose  him  sitting  in  the  Chair,  the  arguments  on 
both  sides  urged,  and  all  the  audience  full  of  expectation  which  side 
would  carry  it.  Hie  Moderator,  fuller  of  old  merry  tales  than  ordinary, 
thus  resolves  the  business  : — ^That  he  had  heard  it  commended  for  a 
great  piece  of  wisdom  in  bishop  Andrews,  '^  that  wheresoever  ke  was 
a  parson,  a  dean,  or  a  bishop,  he  never  troubled  parish,  college,  or 
diocess,  with  pressing  of  odier.  ceremonies  upon  them,  than  such 
which  he  found  used  there  before  his  coming  thither : "  (Ch.  Hist.  voL 
iii.  p.  349  :)  That  king  James,  finding  the  archbishop  of  Spalato  in  a 
resolution  of  questioning  all  such  leases  as  had  been  made  by  his  pre- 
decessors in  the  Savoy>  gave  him  this  wise  counsel,  Relinque  res  sicut 
eas  invenisti;  that  "he  should  leave  things  as  he  found  them:" 
(Idemy  vol.  iii.  p.  298 :)  That  the  said  king,  being  told  by  a  great  per- 
son of  the  inverted  situation  of  a  chapel  in  Cambridge,  made  answer, 
that  "  it  did  not  matter  how  the  chapel  stood,  so  their  hearts  who  go 
thither  were  set  aright  in  God's  service:"  (Idem^  vol.  iii.  p.  382:) 
But,  for  his  part,  he  liked  better  of  the  resolution  of  J)x.  Prideaux, 

*  I{e3rlln  employ*  *^  atone/'  in  this  and  in  a  Bnbaeqnent  paisage,  as  Chaacer  and  our 
earlier  vvriters  have  done,  in  an  active  sense,  to  signify  to  make  cU  one,  to  reconcile. 
The  word  was  sometimes  written  <'  at-tone,"  which  conveys  a  sixnilar  leading  idea  in 
xtifereace  to  mnsic, — to  bring  into  tune  or  concord.-^SDiT* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.     579 

(Ills  brother  in  the  Chair  at  Oxford,)  who,  being  troubled  with  his 
neighbours  of  Kidiington,  about  the  setting  up  of  a  May-pole,  some 
being  for  it,  and  some  against  it,  thus  resolved  the  case :  ^'  You,"  saith 
Ixe,  *^  that  will  have  a  May-pole,  shall  haye  a  May-pole ;  aad  you  that 
ipvdll  have  none,  shall  hare  none : "  and  that,  according  to  that 
pattern,  he  thought  best  to  accommodate  the  present  controrersy  to 
tlie  same  effect,  namely,  ^'  You  that  will  have  an  altar,  shall  set  up 
your  altar ;  and  you  that  will  bare  a  table,  shall  haye  but  a  table." 
"Wliich  sentence,  whether  it  would  haye  pleased  all  parties,  I  do 
somewhat  doubt ;  but  sure  I  am,  it  had  not  tended  to  the  adyance- 
xnent  of  that  uniformity  which  was  then  designed. 

Fuller. — The  Animadvertor  here  makes  a  Professor's  Chair ; 
and,  having  solemnly  set  me  down  therein,  puts  words  into  my 
mouth,  and  makes  an  oration  for  me,  as  Moderator  in  the  present 
controversy,  with  a  jeer  to  boot  on  the  memory  of  the  reverend 
Doctor  Prideaux. 

Bat  know,  there  is  another  chair,  which  David  calls  ^*  the  chair 
of  the  scornful,''  Psalm  i.  1 ;  and  it  is  to  be  feared,  that  the  Ani- 
madvertor in  this  point  is  too  near  sitting  down  therein. 

If  I  should  retaliate,  and  accordingly  place  the  Animadvertor  in 
a  cbair,  and  fit  him  with  a  speech  personating  him  proportionabTe 
to  his  principles,  possibly  I  might  render  him  as  ridiculous,  but 
most  of  all  should  abuse  myself  and  my  own  profession  therein. 

I  thank  God  I  can,  though  plainly,  yet  pertinently  enough  to  my 
purpose,  speak  to  express  the  notions  of  my  mind.  And  when 
God  shall  take  speech  from  me,  (if  my  reason  still  remain,)  I  fHoill 
rather  with  Zacharias  make  signs  for  writing-tables  to  write  in,  than 
to  have  words  put  into  my  mouth,  forced  and  feigned  on  me  by  the 
Animadvertor.  Let  him  thank  God  that  he  can  speak  so  well  for 
himself;  and  I  will  be  content,  as  well  as  I  can,  to  utter  my  own 
conceptions* 

It  would  never  have  come  into  my  mind  to  have  compared  the 
table  of  the  Lord  to  a  May-pole ;  the  wood  of  the  one  grew  in 
Paradise ;  not  so  the  other,  being  a  light,  and  ludicrous,  and  too 
oflen  pro&ne,  stock  of  wood.  I  hope  that  the  principles  of  my 
education  will  restrain  me  from  profaneness  in  such  unfitting 
parallels.  - 

Whereas  the  Animadvertor  says,  that ''  an  expedient  would  not 
have  tended  to  that  uniformity  that  was  designed  herein  ;"  before 
God  and  man  I  will  speak  out  my  thoughts : — That  mtdti/ormity 
with  mutual  charity  advanceth  God's  glory,  as  much  as  tmi/armity 
itself  in  matters  merely  indifferent ;  whidi,  as  the  pipes  of  an  organ, 
may  be  of  several  length  and  bigness,  yet  all  tuned  into  good  har- 
mony together, 

2  p  2 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


580  APPEAL  OV  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  FART  III. 

I  will  instance  in  the  observation  of  Easter,  the  great  controvenj 
betwixt  the  eastern  and  western  church  in  the  obserration  thereof; 
betwixt  that  which  I  may  call  "  style  oriental  ^  and  "  style  occi- 
dental ^  for  the  date  thereof.  And  I  verily  believe  that  God  was 
equally  honoured  by  both,  by  such  as  religiously  observed  it. 

250,  251.  Dr.  Heylin. — But  from  these  moderate  men,  who  were 
so  in  contemplation  only,  let  us  proceed  to  one  whp  was  such  in  prac- 
tice, (the  lord  biahop  of  London,)  of  whom  he  saith :  ^^  He  had  a 
perfect  command  of  his  passion,  an  happiness  not  granted  all  deigy- 
men  in  that  age,  though  priyy-counsellors."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iiL  p.  380.) 
So  perfect  a  man  of  his  own  passion  and  affections,  that  he  will  not  think 
himself  honoured  with  a  commendation  which  comes  accompanied 
with  the  disparagement  of  his  chiefest  friend ;  for  that  this  lash  was 
made  for  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  no  wise  man  can  doubt.  Oar 
author  might  have  spared  the  dead,  without  any  wrong  to  the  living; 
but  that  he  thinks  no  topic  so  useful  in  his  Logic,  as  the  rule  of  con- 
traries. Contraria  juxia  se  posita  magis  elucescunt.  Upon  which 
ground,  the  better  to  set  off  bishop  Andrews,  this  poor  archbishop  must  he 
charged  with  want  of  moderation,  ^  in  enjoining  his  own  private  prac- 
tices and  opinions  upon  other  men."  And  here,  that  bishop  Juxon 
might  appear  with  the  greater  lustre,  the  said  archbishop,  with  all  his 
passictn  and  infirmities,  must  stand  by  for  a  foil.  He  had  indeed  no 
such  conmiand  upon  his  passions  as  to  be  at  all  times  of  e^ual  temper, 
especially  when  wearied  with  the  business  of  the  Council-Table,  and 
the  Hig^-Commission.  But,  as  he  was  soon  hot,  so  he  was  soon 
cooled ;  and  so  much  is  observed  by  sir  Edward  Deering,  though  his 
greatest  adversary,  and  the  first  that  threw  dirt  in  his  face  in  the  late 
Long  Parliament ;  who  telleth  us  of  him,  that  '^  the  roughness  of  his 
imcourtly  nature  sent  most  men  discontented  from  him ;  but  so  that 
he  would  often  (of  himself)  find  ways  and  means  to  sweeten  many  of 
them  again,  when  they  least  looked  for  it."  *  In  this,  more  modest  than 
our  author ;  who  gives  us  nothing  of  this  prelate  but  his  wants  and 
weaknesses.  But  of  this  reverend  prelate  he  will  give  cause  to  speak 
more  hereafter. 

Fuller. — There  were  other  clergymen  privy-counsellors  beside 
archbishop  Laud;  (Dr.  Abbot,  Neile,  Harsnet,  Williams,  &c.)  and 
therefore  the  Animadvertor's  collection  of  my  words  cannot  be  con- 
clusive in  reference  tg  archbishop  Laud. 

I  confess  elsewhere  I  do  reckon  anger  amongst  his  personal 
imperfections,  which  a  historian  may  do.  without  any  wrong  at  all; 
(the  Spirit  of  God  saying,  "  Elias  was  subject  to  like  passions  as 
w«  are,^  James  v.  17 ;)  I  am  confident,  as  angry  as  archbishc^  Laud 
was,  he  would  not  have  been  angry  with  me  for  writing  of  it,  as 
sensible  of  and  sorrowful  for  his  own  imperfection  therein. 

•  "  Collection  of  Speeches,"  p.  6. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.      581 

I  am  much  of  the  mind  of  sir  Edward  Deering,  that  the  rough- 
ness of  his  un-court-like  nature  sweetened  many  men  when  they 
least  looked  for  it,  surprising  some  of  them  (and  myself  for  one) 
"with  unexpected  courtesies.  But  whereas  I  am  accused  for  giving- 
in  nothing  of  this  prelate  but  his  wants  and  weaknesses,  it  will  not 
be  long  before  my  innocence  herein  will  appear. 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^Let  us  now  on  unto  another  of  a  different  judgment, 
his  professed  enemy,  Mr.  Prinne ;  of  whom  thus  our  author :  "  Mr. 
William  Priime  was  bom  about  Bath  in  Gloucestershire,  &c.  began  with 
the  writing  of  some  orthodox  books."  (Ch.  Hist.  Yol.  iii.  p.  383.)  In 
this  story  of  Mr.  Prinne  and  his  sufferings,  our  author  runs  into  many 
errors,  which  either  his  love  to  the  man,  or  zeal  to  the  good  cause,  or 
carelessness  of  what  he  writes,  hare  brought  upon  him. 

Fuller. — If  I  have  run  into  so  many  errors,  it  will  be  charity 
in  the  Animadvertor  fairly  to  lead  me  back  again  a  foot-pace  into 
the  truth,  and  then  he  shall  have  thanks  for  his  pains  :  always  pro- 
vided, he  doth  not  pinch  me  by  the  arm  as  he  conducteth  me,  which 
will  turn  my  thanks  into  anger.  But  seeing  the  Animadvertor 
eareth  for  both  alike  from  my  hands,  let  him  do  as  he  pleaseth. 

Next  we  have  his  tripartite  history  of  my  errors,  which  he  will 
have  to  proceed  from  one  of  these  three  causes  :— 

1.  L(ytDe  to  the  person  of  Mr,  Prinne.  To  whom  I  profess  I  hav-q 
no  fondness ;  but  liking  the  motto  of  Luther,  Ini  quo  aliquid  Christi 
tideOy  iUum  diligo^  I  must  on  that  account  have  a  kindness  for  him. 

2.  Zeal  to  their  good  cause.  Which  I  behold  as  a  jeer,  and 
treading  on  the  toes  of  scripture :  "  It  is  good  to  be  zealously 
affected  always  in  a  good  thing^  Galatians  iv.  18* 

3.  Carelesmess  of  what  I  vyrite. 

But  seeing  now  the  Animadvertor^s  hand  ia  \n  his  arithmetic,  in 
counting  of  causes  of  my  mistakes,  his  charity  might  have  found  a 
fourth,  (worth  all  the  other  three,)  and  imputed  my  errors  to  that 
infirmity  which  always  attendeth  human  nature,  lloweyer,  let  us 
proceed. 

252.  Dr.  Heylin. — Whereas  our  author  telleth  us,  that  Mr.  Wil- 
liam Prinne  was  bom  about  Bath  in  Gloucestershire,  Bath  is  not  in 
Gloucestershire,  but  a  chief  city  in  the  county  of  Somerset.     ^ 

FuLLEE.— These  are  Aki-mad-vebsions  indeed,  when  a 
writer's  words  are  madly-verted^  inverted^  perverted^  against  his  true 
intent  and  their  grammatical  sense. 

My  words  run  thus :  "  Mr.  William  Prinne  was  bom  (about 
BatL)  in  Gloucestershire;'*'  where  Bath  is  walled  about  with  a 
parenthesis,  not  essential  to  the  sentence,  thus  perfect  without  it : 
"  Mr.  William  Prinne  was  born  in  Gloucestershire."    These  wftlls 


Digitized  by 


Google 


5B2  APPEAL  OF  INJUBKP  INNOGSNC£.  PA&T  III. 

the  Animad?ertor  hath  moet  diaingenuoiuly  disnmntled,  to  hj 
Bath  open ;  and,  if  possible,  io  biing  it  into  Gloucestershire,  thftt 
so  he  may  have  something  to  cayil  at  me. 

Indeed  Bath  is  not  •!»»  but  within  three  miles  of,  Oloucesirarshiie ; 
and  the  next  «ninent  place  to  [Swainswick]  the  Tillage  of  Mr. 
Prinne's  nativity.  When  toims  stand  in  the  ccmfines  of  two  coun- 
ties, is*  it  not  proper  enough  to  say  ? — '^  Such  a  one  was  bom  (about 
London)  in  Surrey,^  though  London  be  in  Middlesex ;  or  *^  (about 
Windsor)  in  Buckinghamshire,^  though  Windsw  be  in  Berkshiie? 

Mr.  Fox,  writing  in  his  own  defence  against  such  as  traduced 
him :  "  Some,**  saith  he,  "  do  not  cavil  because  they  have  found 
feult ;  but  do  find  feults  because  they  may  cavil.''  And  be  it 
reported  to  the  reader,  whether  the  Animadvertor  may  be  accounted 
one  of  them.  And  now  the  Animadvertor,  having  a  little  refreshed 
himself  in  my  Cross-Bath,  and  somewhat  pleased  his  spirit  of  oppo- 
sition,  he  thus  proceedeth  :— 

253.  Dr.  Heylin. — Secondly.  Though  I  kok  on  Mr.  Prinne  (so 
far  forth  as  I  am  able  to  judge,  by  some  books  of  his  not  long 
since  published)  as  a  man  of  a  far  more  moderate  spirit,  than  I  have 
done  formerly;*  yet  can  I  not  think  his  first  books  to  have  been 
BO  orthodox  as  our  author  makes  them.  For,  not  to  say  any  thing  of 
his  "Perpetuity,"  &c. 

Fuller, — But  I  must  and  will  say  something  of  his  ^  Perpe- 
tuity of  the  Regenerate  Man's  Estate,"  aff  being  that  which  is  par- 
ticularly named  in  my  margin,  and  chiefly  intended  by  me :  a  book 
wherein  an  useful,  necessary,  and  comfortable  truth  is  learnedly 
defended  :  a  book,  which  will  perpetuate  the  memory  of  the  writer ; 
who,  had  he  proceeded,  and  continued  as  he  began,  none  could  have 
taken  just  exception  at,  or  got  just  advantage  against,  him. 

Dr.  HsYLiN.-^Not  to  say  any  thing  of  his  ^'  Perpetuity,"  hia  hooks 
entituled,  '^  Lame  Giles's  Haltings,"  ^  Gosin  s  cozenixig  Derotions," 
and  his  Appendix  to  another,  have  many  things  repugnant  to  the 
rules  and  canons  of  the  church  of  England.  No  greater  enemj 
against  bowing  at  the  name  of  Jesus,  nor  greater  eneiay  to  some 

*  Prjnne  had  secured  a  waxm  place  in  HeyUn'a  affection^,  by  his  violent  <^po«itioat9 
Cromwell's  government,  and  by  his  strenuous  and  sincere  exertiona  in  aid  of  those  who 
were  then  engaged  in  procuring  the  restoration  of  the  royal  ftsimily.  This  was  a  oonrae 
pursued  by  manj  wise  ia#n  of  Prynne's  '^azty  :  duidng  sevoml  year»  of  varying  misrale, 
tiiey  had  become  gradually  attached  to  the  veneraU^  institutions  connected  with  the 
altar  and  the  throne,  which  they  had  themselves  assisted  to  overturn;  and  they  were 
disgusted  with  the  inconsistent  conduct  of  others,  who  had  originally  been  the  loudest 
declaimers  against  tyranny,  but  who,  in  accordance  with  all  revolutionary  ezp^enee, 
had  afterwards  proved  themselves  to  be  among  the  moat  detezmined  enemies  of  civfl 
liberty  and  the  rights  of  conscience. — Edit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH.HISTORT,  BOOK  XI.     '533 

ceremonies  here  by  law  established.  In  which  particulars  if  our 
autlior  think  him  to  be  orthodox,  he  declares  himself  to  be  no  true  son 
of  the  church  of  England. 

Fcri.LER.*^I  confess,  in  this  his  nmnerous  ofispring,  his  jounger 
children  were  not  so  vigorous  as  his  first-born,  termed  in  the  scrip- 
ture ^^  the  might  and  beginning  of  their  fathers^  strength,*^  Qen. 
xlix.  3  :  they  were  of  a  weaker  and  sicker  constitution,  and  some 
passages  in  them  I  do  not  approve.  I  hope  to  acquit  myself  so 
dutiful  a  son  to  the  church  of  England,  that,  when  in  a  reverent 
posture  I  shall  cmve  her  blessing,  she  will  give  it  me^n  as  full  and 
free  a  manner  and  measure  as  to  the  Animadvertor  himself. 

254.  Dr.  Hbylin.— Thirdly.  The  book  called  "  Hulrio-Maslix  " 
was  not  written  by  Mr.  Prinne  about  three  years  before  his  last  suffer- 
ings, as  our  author  telleth  us ;  for  then  it  must  be  written  or  published 
anno  1634  ;  whereas,  indeed,  that  book  was  published  in  print  about 
the  latter  end  of  1632,  and  the  author  censured  in  Star-Ghamber  for 
some  passages  in  it,  about  the  latter  end  of  the  year  1633.  Other- 
wise, had  it  been  as  our  author  telleth  us,  the  punishment  must  have 
preceded  the  offence ;  and  he  must  suffer  for  a  book  which  was  not 
published  at  that  time,  and  perhaps  not  written.  But  our  author  hath 
a  special  faculty  in  this  kind,  which  few  writers  have. 

FuLLER.-*-The  Animadvertor  hath  a  special  faculty  in  cavilling 
without  cause.  My  clock  of  time  strikes  true  enough,  but  that  he 
is  minded  not  to  tell  it  aright.  My  words  are,  "  Some  three  years 
since  \"  which  word  some  soundeth  an  interpretative />/i^  minii>a  to 
all  ingenuous  ears.  Besides,  this  is  our  opposite  marginal  note, 
(containing  the  contents  of  that  paragraph,)  "  Mr.  Prinne  accused 
for  libelling  against  bishops  ^^  which  accusation  was  about  two 
years  before  this  his  last  censure,  during  which  time  he  was  impri- 
soned. And  my  ^some  three  years  ^  are  to  bear  date  (in  the 
construction  of  any  impartial  reader)  from  that  his  accusation  ;  and 
then  nothing  is  mistimed,  but  falleth  out  in  due  season. 

And  now,  reader,  judge  where  the  many  errors  be  into  which  I. 
have  run,  in  the  story  of  Mr.  Prinne  and  his  sufferings,  seeing  no 
one  mistake  can  be  produced  and  proved  against  me.  And  seeing 
the  first  book  of  Mr.  Prinne  was  sound  in  itself,  in  my  opinion ; 
and  his  last  books  more  moderate,  even  in  the  judgment  of  the 
Animadvertor;  and  his  middling  books  (how  faulty  soever)  such 
for  vhich  he  hath  severally  suffered ;  let  us  even  take  a  fair  farewell 
of  Mr.  Prinne  and  his  books,  and  so  proceed. 

Dh.  Hetlin. — For  as  he  post-dateth  his  *^  HistrUhMastix^  by 
making  it  come  into  the  world  two  years  after  it  did ;  so  he  antedates 
a  book  of  Dr.  White,  then  lord  bishop  of  Ely,  which  he  makes  to  be 
published  two  years  so<mer  than  indeed  it  was.    That  book  of  his. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


584  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCS.  PART  III. 

entitttled,  ^  A  Treatise  of  the  Sabbath,*  oame  not  out  till  Michaelinas, 
anno  1635,  though  placed  by  our  author  as  then  written,  anno  1633; 
for  which,  see  Ch.  Hist.  toL  iii.  p.  373. 

Fuller.— In  answer  hereunto,  may  the  reader  be  pleased  to 
take  notice  of  these  particulars. 

1.  The  reviTed  controversy,  Lord^s  day,  lasted  ten  years,  bandied 
with  books  from  1628  till  1638. 

2.  I  was  loath  to  scatter  my  book  with  it,  but  resoWed  on  one 
entire  narrative  thereof. 

3.  I  fixed  on  the  year  1633,  therein  to  insert  the  same,  because 
the  middle  number,  from  the  rising  to  the  sinking  of  the  difference, 
then  come  to  the  very  beat  and  height  thereof. 

4.  Hence  my  narrative  retreated  some  years  back  to  1628,  when 
Bradbom  began  the  difference. 

5.  Hence  also  it  sallied  forth  to  the  year  1635,  (when  bishop 
Whitens  book  was  set  forth,)  and  beyond  it. 

6.  The  date  of  the  year  1633  stands  still  unmovable  on  my 
margin  ;  the  whole  relation  being,  for  the  reasons  aforesaid,  entered 
under  it.  So  that  nothing  is  offered  to  the  reader  unjointed  in 
time,  if  I  be  but  rightly  understood. 

255.  Dr.  HsTLiN.-^Next  unto  Mr.  Prinne,  in  the  course  of  his 
censure,  comes  the  bishop  of  Lincoln,  the  cause  whereof  we  have  in 
our  author,  who  having  left  a  blank,  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  390,)  for 
somewhat  which  he  thinks  not  fit  to  make  known  to  all,  gives  some 
occasion  to  suspect  that  the  matter  was  far  worse  on  the  bishop's  side 
than  perhaps  it  was.     And  therefore,  to  prevent  all  further  miscon- 
structions in  this  business,  I  will  lay  down  the  story  as  I  find  it,  thus  : 
namely,  ^^  The  bishop's  purgation  depending  chiefly  upon  the  testimony 
of  one  Prideon,  it  happened,  that,  the  Februarfr  after,  one  Elizabeth 
Hodson  was  delivered  of  a  base  child,  and  laid  to  this  Prideon.    The 
bishop,  finding  his  great  witness  charged  with  such  a  load  of  filth  and 
infamy,  conceived  it  would  invalidate  all  his  testimony;  and,  that 
onee  rendered  invalid,  the  bishop  could  easily  prognosticate  his  own 
ruin ;  therefore  he  bestirs  himself  amain.   And  though,  by  order  of  the 
Justices  at  the  public  Sessions  at  Lincoln,  Prideon  was  chaiged  as  the 
reputed  father,  the  bishop,  by  his  two  agents,  Powel  and  Owen, 
procured  that  order   to    be  suppressed;    and,  by  subornation  and 
menacing  of  and  tampering  with  witnesses,  at  length  in  May  (10th 
of  Charles)  procured  the  child  to  be  fathered  upon  one  Boon,  and 
Prideon  acquit.     Which  lewd  practices,  for  the  supportation  of  his 
fi^vourite's  credit,  cost  the  bishop,  as  he  confessed  to  Sir  John  Munson 
and  others,  twelve  hundred  pounds ;  so  much  directly,  and  by  oons^ 
ijuence  much  more.**  • 

•  <*  Hiftory  of  King  Charle.,"  fol.  IM. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THB  CHURCH  HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.     585 

Fuller. — I  have  concealed  nothing  herein  of  moment,  (the 
blank  being  insignificant,  and  the  mere  mistake  of  the  printer,*) 
and  expect  no  considerable  addition  from  the  Animadvertor,  having 
in  my  book  truly  and  clearly  stated  the  bishop^s  cause  (rom  the  best 
records. 

I  appeal  to  the  unpartial  perusers  of  what  I  wrote,  whether  by 
this  note  any  thing  of  moment  is  added  to  the  matter  in  hand, 
except  the  naming  of  a  light  housewife,  (which  I  conceived  beneath 
my  History,)  the  rest  being  truly  by  me  related  before. 

256.  Dr.  Hetlin. — But,  to  proceed :  The  cause  being  brought  unto 
a  censure,  ^^ Secretary  Windebank  motioned  to  degrade  him;  which," 
^aith  he,  ^'  was  lustily  pronounced  by  a  knight  and  layman,  having  no 
precedent  for  the  same  in  former  ages."  (Ch.  Hist.  Tol.  iii.  p.  391.) 
!Bat,  First,  it  is  not  very  certain  that  any  such  thing  was  moved  by 
sir  Francis  "Windebank.  A  manuscript  of  that  day's  proceedings  I 
liave  often  seen,  containing  the  decree  and  sentence,  with  the  substance 
of  every  speech  then  made ;  and,  amongst  others,  that  of  sir  Francis 
"Windebank,  in  which  I  find  no  motion  tending  to  a  degradation,  nor 
any  other  punishment  inflicted  on  him,  than  fine,  suspension,  and 
imprisonment ;  in  which  the  residue  of  the  Lords  concurred,  as  we  find 
in  our  author. 

Fuller. — It  is  very  certain,  he  moved  it,  and  I  avow  it  from 
honourable  eyes  and  ears.  The  Animadvertor  misguides  the  refer- 
ence of  those  my  words,  "  having  no  precedent  for  the  same  in 
former  ages,*"  making  them  relate  to  the  bishop'^s  degradation; 
(whereof  one  precedent  since  the  Reformation,  unus  homo  nobis ;) 
which  indeed  refer  to  the  knight^s  and  layman^s  first  mentioning 
thereof,  which  is  unprecedented  I  am  sure,  that  such  a  person  should 
first  make  such  a  motion  against  a  bishop. 

I  confess,  at  bishop  Middleton'*s  degradation,  some  of  the  lay 
Privy- Counsellors  were  present,  but  acted  littls  therein,  (so  fisir  from 
first  mentioning  of  it,)  only  concurring  with  the  Court ;  the  matter 
being  chiefly  managed  by  archbishop  Whitgift,  and  some  other 
bishops  and  deans  the  commissioners,  as  most  proper  persons  to  pass 
such  a  censure  on  one  of  their  own  profession. 

Dr.  HsrLiN.-o-Secondly.  It  had  been  more  strange  if  the  knight 
had  not  been  a  layman,  the  church  of  England  not  acknowledging  any 
Order  of  spiritual  knighthood.  Knights  in  divinity  are  greater  strangers 
in  this  land,  than  lay  divines ;  these  last  being  multiplied  of  late,  even 
ad  in€nitum  ;  the  first,  never  heard  of. 

Fuller. — The  pleonasm  of  the  addition  of  layman  to  knight  is 

*  Before  his  time,  he  was  about  to  begin  a  new  section  and  dedication,  as  appears  by 
Uie  "  To  "  in  the  text. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


586  APPEAL  OP  INJURED  INNOCENCE;  PART  III. 

not  80  culpable  in  itself,  bot  that  it  might  have  passed  without 
censure ;  and  let  not  the  Animadvertor  be  OTer-confident  herein. 

I  have  been  credibly  informed^  that  sir  Miles  Sandys,  (third  son 
to  Edwin  archbbhop  of  York,)  Fellow  of  Peter-House  in  Cam- 
bridge, and  Proctor  of  the  Uniyersity,  anno  1588,  was  made  a 
deacon,  (and  so  no  mere  layman,)  and  in  his  younger  yeacs  a 
prebendary  of  York.  Within  this  twenty  years  there  was  one 
Mr.  Seaton  beneficed  in  Hertfordshire,  a  Scottish-man,  and  at  this 
day  a  knight.  But  the  matter  being  of  no  more  moment,  let  us 
proceed, 

257,  258,  Dr.  Hbtlik.— >And,  Thirdly,  had  it  be^  so  mored,  and 
so  lustily  mored,  as  our  author  makes  it,  the  knight  and  layman  iii%ht 
hare  found  a  precedent  for  it  in  former  ages. 

Which  last  clause  is  to  be  understood  (as  I  suppose)  with  reference 
to  the  times  since  the  Reformation.  For  in  the  former  times,  many 
precedents  of  like  nature  might  be  easily  found.  And  being  under- 
stood of  the  times  since  the  Reformation,  it  is  not  so  infallibly  true  but 
that  one  precedent  of  it,  at  the  least,  may  he  found  amongst  us. 
Marmaduke  Middleton  adyanced  to  the  bishopric  of  St.  David's,  anno 
1567,  after  he  had  sat  in  that  see  three-and-twenty  years,  was  finaUy 
condemned,  (for  many  notable  misdemeanours,)  not  only  to  be  deprired 
of  his  bishopric,  but  degraded  from  all  holy  Orders.  Which  sentence 
was  accordingly  executed  by  and  before  the  High-Commissioners  at 
Lambeth-house,  not  only  by  reading  it  in  scriptisy  but  by  a  formal 
divesting  of  him  of  his  episcopal  robes  and  priestly  vestments,*  as  I 
have  heard  by  a  person  of  good  credit,  who  was  present  at  it.  And 
somewhat  there  is  further  in  the  story  of  this  Marmaduke  Middleton, 
which  concerns  the  bishop  now  before  us ;  of  whom  our  author  telleth 
us  further,  that,  being  pressed  by  two  bishops  and  three  doctors,  to 
answer  upon  oath  to  certain  articles,  which  were  tendered  to  him  in 
the  Tower,  ^'  he  utterly  refused  to  do  it,  claiming  the  privilege  of  a 
peer."  (Oh.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  394.)  Which  plea  was  also  made  by  the 
said  bishop  of  St.  David's,  offering  to  give-in  his  answer  to  such  articles 
as  were  fi:amed  against  him,  ofi  his  honour  only^  but  refusing  to  do  it 
on  his  oath.  Whiqh  case  being  brought  before  the  Lr>rds,  then  sitting 
in  Parliament,  was  ruled  against  him ;  it  being  ordered  that  he  should 
answer  upon  oath,  as  in  fine  he  did.  To  this  bishop  let  us  join  his 
chaplain,  Mr.  Osbaldeston ;  who,  being  engaged  in  the  same  bark  with 
his  patron,  suffered  shipwreck  also,  though  not  at  the  same  time,  nor 
on  the  same  occasion ;  censured  in  [[the]]  Star-Ohamber  not  only  to  lose 
his  ecclesiastical  promotions,  but  to  corporal  punishments. 

FaLLEB. — In  my  weak  judgment,  the  Animadvertor  had  better 
have  omitted  this  passage  (of  the   bishop's   degradation)  in  this 

*  With  other  ceremonies  used  at  his  bxinging-in  to  the  Courts  and  his  thzostiog  cat 
of  it. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH- HISTORY,  BOOK  XL     fi87 

juncture  of  time,  wherein  the  repute  of  that  function  runs  very  low, 
and  their  adversaries  too  ready  to  take  all  advantage  to  disgrace  it ; 
the  rather,  because  bishop  Godwin  taketh  no  notice  at  all  thereof, 
but  beginneth,  continueth,  and  concludeth  the  life  and  death  of  this 
bishop  in  less  than  two  lines :  ^*  Marmaduke  Middleton,  translated 
from  Ireland,  died  November  80th,  1592.^'*  Our  author  proceed- 
eth:— 

259.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^'  But  this  last  personal  penalty  he  escaped,  by 
going  beyond  Canterbury,  conceiyed  seasonably  gone  beyond  the  seas, 
whilst  he  secretly  concealed  himself  in  London."  (Gh.  Hist  vol.  iii. 
p.  403.)  And  he  had  escaped  the  last  penalty,  had  he  staid  at  home. 
For  though  Mr.  Osbaldeston  at  that  time  conceived  the  archbishop  to 
be  his  greatest  enemy,  yet  the  archbishop  was  resolved  to  show  himself 
his  greatest  Iriend,  assuring  the  author  of  these  papers,  (before  any 
thing  was  known  of  Mr.  Osbaldeston's  supposed  flight,)  that  he  would 
cast  himself  at  the  king's  feet  for  obtaining  a  discharge  of  that  corporal 
punishment  unto  which  he  was  sentenced.  Which  may  obtain  the 
greater  credit,  First,  in  regard  that  no  course  was  taken  to  stop  his 
flight,  no  aeaarch  made  after  him,  nor  any  thing  done  in  order  to 
his  apprehension.  And,  Secondly,  by  Mr.  Osbaldeston's  readiness  to 
do  the  archbishop  all  good  offices  in  the  time  of  his  troubles,  upon  the 
knowledge  which  was  giyen  him  (at  his  coming-back)  of  such  good 
intentionsl  But  of  these  private  men  enough :  pass  we  now  to  the 
public. 

FuLi^ER. — Whether  or  no  he  was  sought  after,  I  know  not. 
This  I  know,  he  was  not  taken  :  and  more  [persons]  do  commend 
his  wariness  in  his  flight,  than  would  have  praised  bis  valour  for 
staying,  in  hope  his  punishment  should  be  remitted.  It  had  been 
most  mercy  to  stop  the  denouncing — but  was  a  good  after-game  of 
pity  to  stay  the  inflicting — of  so  cruel  a  censure  on  a  clergyman. 
As  the  Animadvertor  then  had  the  credit  to  know — so  the  author 
now  hath  the  charity  to  believe — the  archbishop's  good  resolu- 
tion. 

However  I  cannot  forget,  that,  when  the  sentence  in  the  Star- 
Chamber  passed  on  bishop  Williams,  (where  be  concurred  with  the 
highest  in  his  fine,)  he  publicly  professed,  that  he  ''had  fallen  Jive 
times  down  on  his  knees  before  the  king  in  the  bishop's  behalf,  but 
to  no  purpose.*"  It  might  be  therefore  suspected  that  his  intention 
to  do  it  once  for  Mr.  Osbaldeston  might  not  have  taken  effect  And 
therefore,  had  the  archbishop's  good  resolution  been  known  unto 
him,  Mr,  Osbaldeston  might  most  advisedly  conceal  himself. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


588  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  UI. 

BOOK  XL 
PART  n. 

CONTAIMIKe    THE    LAST    TWELVE    YKABS    OF   THE    REIGN    OF 
KING    CHARLES. 

Dr.  Hetlin. — ^And  now  we  come  to  the  last  and  most  unfortunate 
part  of  this  king^s  reign,  which  ended  in  the  loss  of  his  own  life,  the 
ruin  of  the  church,  and  the  alteration  of  the  ciyil  goyemment ;  occa- 
sioned primarily^  as  my  author  saith,  hj  sending  a  new  lituigj  to  the 
Idrk  of  Scotland. 

Fuller. — I  deny  such  a  word,  that  I  said  the  Litui^  did  pru 
marily  occasion  the  war  with  Scotland :  rather  the  clean  contiBry 
may,  by  charitable  logic,  be  collected  from  my  words,  when,  haying 
reckoned  up  a  complication  of  heart-burnings  amongst  the  Scots,  I 
thus  conclude : — 

"  Thus  was  the  Scottish  nation  full  of  discontents,  when  this 
book,  being  brought  unto  them,  bare  the  blame  of  their  breaking- 
forth  into  more  dangerous  designs ;  as  when  the  cup  is  brim  full 
before,  the  last  (though  least)  superadded  drop  is  charged  alone  to 
be  the  cause  of  all  the  running-over."'  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  399.) 

Till  then  that  the  word  primcmly  can  be  produced  out  of  my 
book,  let  the  Animadvertor  be  beheld,  primarily^  as  one  departed 
from  the  truth;  and,  secondarily y  as  a  causeless  accuser  of  his 
brother.     For  he  thus  proceeds  :— 

260.  Dr.  Hetlin. — ^  Miseries  caused  from  the  sending  of  the  Book 
of  Service  or  new  Lituigy,  thither,  which  may  sadly  be  termed  a 
Rubric  indeed,  dyed  with  the  blood  of  so  many  of  bodi  nations,  slain 
on  that  occasion."  (Oh.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  395.)  Our  author  speaks 
this  in  relation  to  the  Scottish  tumults,  anno  1637*  In  telling  of 
which  story  he  runs  (as  commonly  elsewhere)  into  many  errors.  For^ 
First,  those  miseries  and  that  bloodshed  were  not  caused  by  sending  tbe 
Liturgy  thither. 

Fuller. — Seeing  the  Animadvertor  denies  the  Liturgy  to  have 
had  any  causal  influence  on  the  Scots^  war,  I  must  manifest  my 
dissent  from  his  judgment.  And  here  I  crave  the  reader's  leave  to 
be  his  humble  remembrancer  of  the  kinds  of  causes,  so  far  as  they 
conduce  to  the  clearing  of  the  present  controversy. 

Causes  are  twofold :  oXix^  aWtx  "  solitary  or  total,''  or  jttspix^  ahl» 
"joint  and  fellow  causes."  The  latter  again  is  twofold  :  vffoy^yovyMy 
pro-egumena  "  long  leading  before,"  and  inwardly  disposing  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.     589 

inclining  to  action;  or  vrpoxarapKriKviy procatarctica^  (celled  also 
causa  irritatria  or  primitiva  provocansyj  which  is  outwardly 
impulsive  to  action. 

The  former  is  termed  by  physicians  causa  antecedenSy  the  latter 
causa  evidensj  of  a  disease.  Thus  in  a  fever,  "  corrupt  humours, 
bred  within  and  without  the  veins,^  are  the  antecedent  cause  thereof; 
whilst,  beinff  in  the  hot  sun^  walking  in  the  south  wind,^  S^c.  stopping 
the  pores^  and  stirring  the  ill  humours  to  heat^  may  be  the  evident 
cause  of  a  fever. 

I  thus  apply  it :  The  inward  discontents  of  the  Scots  on  several 
accounts  (which  follow  on  the  next  paragraph)  were  the  antecedent 
causes  of  their  war;  whilst  the  evident  came  thereof  was  the 
obbruding  the  Liturgy  upon  them.  And  so  much  for  my  clear 
sense  in  this  controversy. 

261,  262.  Dr.  Hetltn. — ^The  plot  had  been  laid  long  before  upon 
other  grounds ;  that  is  to  say,  First,  questioning  of  some  church-lands, 
then  in  the  hands  of  some  great  persons,  of  which  they  feared  a  revo* 
cation  to  the  Crown.  And,  Secondly,  the  manumitting  of  some  poor 
subjects  from  the  tyranny  and  vassalage  which  they  lived  under,  in 
respect  of  their  tithes,  exacted  with  all  cruelty  and  injustice  by  those 
whom  they  call  ^^the  lords  of  new  erection."  Which  plot  so  laid, 
there  wanted  nothing  but  some  popular  occasion  for  raising  of  a 
tumult  first,  a  rebellion  afterwards :  and  this  occasion  they  conceived 
they  had  happily  gained,  by  sending  the  new  Liturgy  thither ;  though 
ordered  by  their  own  deigy  first,  as  our  author  tells  us,  at  the  assem- 
bly of  Aberdeen,  anno  1616;  and  after  at  Perth,  anno  1618,  and 
fashioned  for  the  most  part  by  their  own  bishops  also.  But  of  this 
there  hath  so  much  been  said  between  the  Observator  and  his  antago- 
nist, that  there  is  nothing  necessary  to  be  added  to  it.  Thirdly.  There 
was  no  such  matter  as  the  '^  passing  of  an  Act  of  Revocation,  for  the 
restoring  of  such  lands  as  had  been  alienated  from  the  Crown,  in  the 
minority  of  the  king's  predecessors,"  of  which  he  tells  us,  Ch.  Hist. 
voL  iii.  p.  398.  The  king,  indeed,  did  once  intend  the  passing  of  such 
an  Act ;  but,  finding  what  an  insurrection  was  likely  to  ensue  upon  it, 
he  followed  the  safer  counsel  of  sir  Archibald  Acheson,  by  whom  he 
was  advised  tp  sue  them  in  his  Courts  of  Justice.  Which  course,  suc- 
ceeding to  his  wish,  so  terrified  many  of  those  great  persons  who  had 
little  else  but  such  lands  to  maintain  their  dignities,  that  they  never 
thought  themselves  secure  as  long  as  the  king  was  in  a  condition  to 
demand  his  own.  Fourthly.  Though  it  be  true  enough,  that  ^'  some 
persons  of  honour  had  been  denied  such  higher  titles  as  they  had 
desired;"  (fdem^  p.  399;)  yet  was  it  not  the  denying  of  such  titles 
unto  men  of  honour  which  wrought  these  terrible  effects;  but  the 
denying  of  an  honorary  title  to  a  man  qfno  honour.  If  colonel  Alex- 
ander Lesley,  an  obscure  fellow,  but  made  rich  by  the  spoils  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


590  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PABT  III. 

plunder  of  Oeniiany,  had  been  made  a  baron  when  be  first  de»red  it, 
the  rest  of  the  malcontents  in  Scotland  migbt  bare  bad  an  heart, 
though  they  had  no  head.  But  the  king,  not  willing  to  dishonour  so 
high  a  tide,  hy  conferring  it  on  so  low  a  person,  denied  the  £iTOtur ; 
which  put  the  man  into  such  a  heat  that  presently  be  joined  himself 
to  the  £Eu;tion  there,  drove  on  the  plot,  and  finally  undertook  the  com- 
mand of  their  armies.  Rewarded  for  which  notable  sendee  widi  the 
title  of  earl  oi  Leyin  by  the  king  himself,  he  could  not  so  d%est  the 
injury  of  the  first  refusal  but  that  he  afterwards  headed  th^  rebelli<ms 
upon  all  occasions. 

FuLLEB.— Little  opposition  against,  some  variation  fiiom,  and 
more  addition  unto,  what  I  have  written,  is  herein  contamed ;  which 
if  tending  to  the  reader^s  dearer  information,  I  am  right  glad 
thereof,  and  wish  him  all  happiness  therein.  Our  author  pro- 
ceeds:— 

263.  Dr.  Hbtlin.—*^  Generally  they  excused  the  king  in  their 
writings,  as  innocent  therein;  but  cluu!ged  archbishop  Laud  as  the 
prindpal  ajid  Dr.  Oosin  for  the  instrumental  compiler  thereof."  (Ch. 
Hist.  Tol.  iii.  p.  400.)  This  is  no  more  than  we  had  reason  to  expect 
from  a  former  passage,  where  our  author  telleth  us,  that  the  Scottbh 
bishops  withdrew  themselves  from  their  obedience  to  the  see  of  York, 
in  the  time  when  George  Nevill  was  archbishop.  And  then  he  adds, 
*'  Henceforwards  no  archbishop  of  York  medeUed  more  with  church- 
matters  in  Scotland ;  and  happy  had  it  been  if  no  archbishop  of  Can- 
terbury had  since  interested  himself  therein !"  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  i.  p. 
523.)  His  stomach  is  so  full  of  choler  against  this  poor  prelate,  that 
he  must  needs  bring  up  some  of  it  above  an  hundred  years  before  he 
was  bom. 

Fuller. — What  could  more  calmly  be  written  ?  Perchance 
some  cold  phlegm,  but  nothing  of  choler,  is  in  the  expression.  I 
say  again,  "  It  had  been  happy  for  king,  queen,  royal  issue,  church, 
state,  the  archbishop  himself,  Animadvertor,  author,  reader,  all 
England.**' 

264.  Dr.  HEYLiK.-i— Hence  it  is,  that  he  rakes  together  all  reports 
which  make  against  him^  and  sets  them  down  in  rank  and  file  in  the 
course  of  this  History.  If  archbishop  Abbot  be  suspended  from  his 
jurisdiction,  the  blame  thereof  was  laid  on  archbishop  Laud,  "  as  if, 
not  content  to  succeed,  he  endeavoured  to  supplant  him."  (Ch.  Hist, 
vol.  iii.  p.  350.)  The  king  sets  put  a  Declaration  about  lawful  Sports ; 
<<  the  reviving  and  enlarging  of  which  "  must  be  put  upon  his  account 
also,  "  some  strong  presumptions  being  urged  for  the  proof  thereof." 
Cldeniy  p.  3770  The  reduction  of  the  church  to  her  ancient  rules 
and  public  doctrines  must  be  nothing  else,  but  "  the  enjoining  of  his 
own  private  practices  and  opinions  upon  other  men."  (Idem^  p.  349.) 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTOR^,  BOOK  XI.      591 

And  if  a  Litoigy  be  composed  for  the  use  of  the  Church  of  Scotland, 
who  but  he  must  be  chaiged  to  be  the  compiler  of  it  ? 

Fuller. — If  all  the  places  here  cited  are  passed  already,  they 
have  received  their  seyeial  answers ;  if  any  of  them  be  to  come, 
they  shall  receive  them  (God  willing)  in  due  time ;  that  so  for  the 
present  we  may  be  silent,  to  prevent  repetition. 

265j  266.  Dr.  Hbylin.— But  what  proofs  have  we  for  all  this  ? 
Only  the  malice  of  his  enemies,  or  our  author's  own  disaffection  to 
him,  or  some  common  fame.  And  if  it  once  be  made  a  fame,  it  shall 
pass  for  truth ;  and,  as  a  truth,  find  place  in  our  author's  History, 
though  the  greatest  fiEdsehood.  Tarn  facilU  in  mendaciis  Jldesy  «/, 
quicquidfamas  licemtjrngerey  illi  esset  libenter  audire^  in  my  author's^ 
language.  But  for  the  last  he  brings  some  proof,  (he  would  have  us 
think  so  at  the  least,)  that  is  to  say,  the  words  of  one  Baillie,  a  Scot, 
whom  it  concerned  to  make  him  as  odious  as  he  could,  the  better  to 
comply  with  a  pamphlet,  called,  "The  Intentions  of  the  Army;"  in 
which  it  was  declared,  that  the  Scots  entered  England  with  a  purpose 
to  remoTe  the  archbishop  from  the  king,  and  execute  their  yengeance 
on  him.  What  hand  Dr.  Cosin  had  in  assisting  of  the  work,  I  am 
not  able  to  say.  But  sure  I  am,  that  there  was  nothing  done  in  it  by 
the  bishops  of  England,  but  with  the  counsel  and  co-operation  of  their 
brethren  in  the  church  of  Scotland;  namely,  the  archbishop  of  St. 
Andrew's,  the  archbishop  of  GkuEfgow,  the  bishops  of  Murray,  Ross, 
Brechin,  and  Dunblane ;  as  appears  by  the  book,  entituled,  "  Hidden 
Works  cf  Darkness,"  &c.  fol.  150,  153,  154,  &c.  And  this  our 
author  must  needs  know,  (but  that  he  hath  a  mind  to  quarrel  the 
archbishop  upon  eyery  turn,)  as  appears  plainly,  1.  By  his  narratiye  of 
the  design  in  king  James's  time,  from  the  first  undertaking  of  it  by 
the  archbishop  of  St.  Andrew's,  and  the  bishop  of  Galloway  then 
being;  whose  book,  corrected  by  that  king,  with  some  "additions, 
expunctions,  and  accommodations,"  was  sent  back  to  Scotland.  2.  By 
that  unsatisfiedness  which  he  seems  to  have,  when  the  project  was 
resumed  by  king  Charles, — Whether  the  book  by  him  sent  into  Scot- 
land were  the  same  which  had  passed  the  hands  of  king  James,  or 
not ;  which  he  expresseth  in  these  words :  namely,  "  In  the  reign  of 
king  Charles,  the  project  was  resumed ;  but  whether  the  same  book, 
or  no,  God  knoweth."  (Ch.  Hist.  yol.  iii.  p.  395.)  If  so,  if  "  God 
only  know  whether  it  were  the  same  or  no,"  how  dares  he  tell  us  that 
it  was  not?  And  if  it  was  the  same,  (as  it  may  be  for  aught  he 
knoweth,)  with  what  conscience' can  he  charge  the  making  of  it  upon 
bishop  Laud  ?  Besides,  (as  afterward  he  telleth  us,)  "  The  church  of 
Scotland  claimed  not  only  to  be  independent,  and  free  as  any  church 
itt  Christendom ;  a  sister,  not  a  daughter  of  England."  (Ch.  Hist,  vol 


*  MiNUTIUS  FflLIX. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


592  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  III. 

iii.  p.  399.)  And  consequentlj  the  prelates  of  that  church  had  more 
reason  to  decline  the  receiying  of  a  Litmgy  imposed  on  them,  or  com- 
mended to  them  hy  the  primate  of  Eoghmd,  (for  fear  of  acknowledging 
any  subordination  to  him,)  than  to  receire  the  same  Liturgy  here  by 
law  established,  which  they  might  yery  safely  borrow  from  their 
sister  church  without  any  such  danger.  But,  howsoeyer  it  was,  the 
blame  must  fidl  on  him  who  did  least  deserye  it. 

Fuller. — I  will  return  to  my  ^ords,  which  gaye  the  Animad- 
vertor  the  first  occasion  of  this  long  discourse  : — "  Generally  they 
excused  the  king  in  their  writings,  but  charged  archbishop  Laud.^ 

I  do  not  chaige  the  archbishop  for  compiling  the  book,  but  say, 
the  Scots  did.  Nor  do  I  say,  that  what  they  charged  on  him  is 
true ;  but  it  is  true,  that  they  did  charge  it  on  him.  Had  I  denied 
it,  I  had  been  a  liar ;  and  seeing  I  afiirmed  no  more,  the  Animad- 
yertor  is  a  cayiller. 

It  is  obsery^ble,  that  when  our  chroniclers  relate  how  queen 
Anne  Bolleyn  was  charged  for  incontinency ;  Margaret  countess  of 
Salisbury,  for  treasonable  compliance  with  the  pope  ;  Henry  earl  of 
Surrey,  for  assuming  the  arms  of  England;  Edward  duke  of 
Somerset,  for  designing  the  death  of  some  Priyy  Counsellors; 
Thomas  duke  of  Norfolk,  for  aspiring,  by  the  match  of  the  queen 
of  Scots,  to  the  English  Crown ;  Robert  earl  of  Essex,  for  danger- 
ous machinations  against  the  person  of  queen  Elizabeth ;  Thomas 
earl  of  Strafford,  for  endeayouring  to  subject  England  and  Ireland 
to  the  king'^s  arbitrary  power: — ^that  the  historians,  who  barely 
report  these  persons  thus  charged,  are  not  bound  to  make  the 
charge  good ;  it  is  enough  if  they  name  their  respectiyc  accusers,  as 
here  I  haye  named  the  Scots. 

It  is  also  obseryable,  that  some  of  the  persons  aforesaid,  though 
condemned  and  executed,  haye  since  found  such  fayour  (or  justice 
rather)  with  unpartial  posterity,  that,  though  they  could  not  reyive 
their  persons,  they  haye  restored  their  memories  to  their  innocence. 
And  if  the  like  shall  be  the  hap  of  this  archbishop,  I  shall  rejoice 
therein :  I  mean,  if  the  Animadyertor'^s  defence  of  him  seems  so 
clear,  as  to  outshine  the  eyidence ;  so  weighty,  as  to  outpoise  all 
allegations,  which  in  printed  books  are  published  against  him. 

In  testimony  whereof,  I  return  nothing  in  contradiction  to  what 
the  Animadyertor  hath  written  ;  and  it  is  questionable,  whether  my 
desire  that  he  may— or  distrust  that  he  will  not — ^be  believed,  be 
the  greater.     Whatever  the  success  be,  I  forbear  farther  rejoinder. 

To  fight  with  a  shadow,  (whether  one^s  own  or  another^s,)  passeth 
for  the  proverbial  expression  of  a  vain  and  useless  act.  But,  seeing 
the  dead  are  sometimes  termed  "  shadows,'"  umbrce ;  to  fiJl  foul  on 
them,  without  absolute  necessity,  is  an  act,  not  only  vain,  but 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.      593 

wicked ;    not  only  useless,  but   uncharitable.     And  therefore  no 
more  hereof.     Our  author  proceedeth : — 

267.  I^R*  Heylin. — "  Thus  none,  seeing  now  foul  weather  in  Scot- 
land, could  expect  it  fair  sunshine  in  England."  (Ch.  Hist.  yol.  iii.  p. 
404.)  In  this  I  am  as  little  of  our  author's  opinion,  as  in  most  things 
else.  The  sun  in  England  might  have  shined  with  a  brighter  beam,  if 
the  clouds  which  had  been  gathered  together,  and  threatened  such 
foul  weather  in  Scotland,  had  been  dispersed  and  scattered  bj  the 
thunder  of  our  English  ordnance.  The  opportunity  was  well  given, 
and  well  taken  also,  had  it  not  been  unhappily  lost  in  the  prosecution. 

Fuller. — Grant  "  the  thunder  of  our  English  ordnance  ^  had 
scattered  the  Scottish  clouds ;  yet,  by  the  confession  of  the  Ani- 
madTcrtor,  there  must  first  be  "  foul  weather  in  England,''  before 
there  could  be  such  fair  weather  to  follow  it.  The  skies  are  always 
dark  and  lowering,  even  whilst  the  thunder  is  engendering  therein. 
Military  preparations  (in  order  to  a  conquest  of  the  Scots)  must 
needs  give  our  nation  great  troubles,  and  (for  the  time)  un-sunshine 
England;  which  is  enough  to  secure  my  expression  from  just 
exception. 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^The  Scots  were  then  weak,  unprovided  of  all  neces- 
saries, not  above  three  thousand  complete  arms  to  be  found  amongst 
them :  the  English,  on  the  other  side,  making  a  formidable  appear- 
ance, gallantly  horsed,  completely  armed,  and  intermingled  with  the 
choicest  of  the  nobility  and  gentry  in  all  the  nation. 

Fuller. — I  am  much  of  the  mind  of  the  Animadvertor,  that 
there  was  a  visible  disparity  betwixt  the  two  armies ;  and  the  odds, 
in  the  eye  of  flesh,  on  the  side  of  the  English.  They  were 
gallantly  horsed  indeed,  whether  in  reference  to  their  horses  or 
riders;  and  the  king  pleasantly  said,  "It  would  make  the  Scots 
fight  against  them,  were  it  but  to  get  their  brave  clothes."  Indeed, 
the  strength  of  the  Scots  consisted  in  their  reputation  to  be  strong ; 
(reported  here  by  such  as  friended  them  ;)  and  the  Scotch  lion  was 
not  half  so  fierce  as  he  was  painted  unto  us.  On  the  other  side, 
the  greatest  disadvantage  to  the  English  was  their  own  injurious 
modesty,  observed  always  to  over-prize  strangers  above  themselves  ; 
being  ignorant  of  their  own  strength  and  valour  in  war,  because 
they  had  been  so  long  accustomed  to  peace.  In  all  this  paragraph 
the  Animadvertor  and  the  author  may  go  abreast  in  their  judg- 
ments ;  and,  to  prevent  quarrels,  the  Animadvertor  shall  have  the 
right  hand,  that  they  do  not  justle  one  the  other. 

Dr.  Heylin. — And  had  the  Scots  been  once  broken,  and  their 
country  wasted,  (which  had  been  the  easiest  thing  in  the.  world,  for 
the  English  army,)  &c. 

Q  Q 


Digitized  by 


Google 


594  APPEAL  OF  mJURED  INNOCENCS.  PART  III. 

FuLLEB.-*Thi8  is  consonant  to  what  he  hath  written  of  tbe 
same  subject,  in  tbe  ^'  Short  View  of  the  Life  and  Reign  of  King 
QharleS)^  *  that  the  king  set  forth  against  the  Scots,  *^  accompanied 
with  such  an  army  of  lords  and  gentlemen  as  might  assure  him  of  a 
chei4>  and  easy  victory.**^  His  majesty,  I  am  sure,  had,  as  it 
became  a  good  Christian,  a  more  modest  and  moderate  apprehen- 
sion of  his  own  army,  such  as  might  give  him  pregnant  hopes,  bat 
no  assuttince,  of  Tictory.  I  never  heard  of  an  assurance^office  for 
the  success  of  battles. 

But  all  this  is  written  by  the  Animady^or  like  an  Historian, 
but  not  like  a  Doctor  in  Divinity.  This  mindeth  me  of  a  passage 
of  king  Henry  H. ;  who,  standing  on  the  cliffs  about  St.  David's, 
in  Wales,  and  there  viewing  Irelaiid :  ^^  I  with  my  ships  am  able,"^ 
saith  he,  *^  to  make  a  bridge  over  it,  if  it  be  no  further :  ''^  which 
speech  of  his  being  related  to  Murchard  king  of  Leinster,  in 
Irehind,  he  demanded  if  he  added  not  to  his  speech,  *^  WM  the 
grace  of  GoiP  When  it  was  answered,  that  he  made  no  mention 
of  God,  "  Then,''  said  he  more  cheerfully,  "  I  fear  him  the  less, 
which  trusteth  more  to  himself  than  to  the  help  of  God.''  \ 

When  the  Animadvertor  tells  us,  that  it  had  been  the  ^'  easiest 
thing  in  the  world  for  the  English  to  have  broken  the  Scots'  army," 
I  must  tell  him,  here  was  one  thing  in  the  world  easier ;  namely, 
the  inserting  of  these  words,  '^By  God's  ordinary  blessing,"  or 
something  to  that  purpose.  Otherwise,  we  know  who  it  was  that 
said,  that  '^  the  race  is  not  to  the  swift,  nor  the  battle  to  the  strong, 
neither  yet  bread  to  the  wise,  nor  yet  riches  to  men  of  under- 
standing, nor  yet  favours  to  men  of  skill :  time  and  chance  happen- 
eth  to  them  all,"  Eccles.  ix.  11. 

Time  was  when  the  Animadvertor  did  needlessly  lavish  a  Gon- 
BLKSS  :  **  God  bless,  not  only  our  Historian,  but  Baronius  himself, 
from  being  held  an  author  of  no  credit."  %  He  that  then  spent  it 
when  he  should  have  spared  it,  spares  it  now  when  he  should  have 
spent  it. 

Dr.  Hbtlin.— And  their  country  wasted,  they  had  been  utterly 
disabled  from  creating  trouble  to  their  king,  disturbances  in  their  own 
church,  and  destruction  to  England.  So  true  is  that  of  the  wise  histo- 
rian :  Conatus  subditorum  irritos  imperia  semper  promovh'e :  *'  The 
insurrections  of  the  people,  when  they  are  suppressed,  do  always  make 
the  king  stronger,  and  the  subjects  weaker." 

Fuller. — ^All  this  proceeds  (as  the  former)  on  the  supposition, 

•  Page  74.  f  Camden's  «  Remains,"  page  260.  t  In  these  hi* 

«  Animadversion*/'  (aa  by  him  set  forth,)  page  8.     (See  page  363  of  this  volume.) 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.      595 

that  the  English  had  beaten  the  Scots  ;  which,  though  (in  the  eje 
of  flesh)  probable,  was  uncertain.  The  Latins  and  English  hare 
the  same  word^  mommitm,  *'  moment,"^  which  signifieth,  as  ^^  time 
of  the  least  continuance,**^  so  "  matters  of  most  concernment,''  to 
show  that  the  scales  of  success,  which  God  alone  holds  in  his  hand, 
are  so  ticklish,  that  the  mote  of  a  moment  may  turn  them  on  either 
side ;  which  is  the  reason  why  no  man  can  positively  conclude  of 
future  contingencies. 

268.  Dr.  Hetiix.-— '*  The  sermon  ended,  we  chose  Dr.  Stewart, 
dean  of  Chichester,  PM)locotor ;  and,  the  next  day  of  sitting,  we  met 
at  Westminster,  in  the  chapel  of  king  Henry  YII."  (Ch.  Hist.  toI.  iii. 
p.  405.)  Had  it  not  been  for  these  and  some  other  passages  of  this 
nature,  our  author  might  hare  lost  the  honour  of  being  taken  notice 
of  for  one  of  the  Clerks  of  the  Convocation;  and  one,  not  of  the 
lowest  form,  but  passing  for  some  of  those  wise  men  who  began  to  be 
fearful  of  themselves,  and  to  be  jealous  of  that  power  by  which  they 
were  enabled  ^o  make  new  Canons.  How  so  ?  Because  it  was  feared 
by  the  judicious,  (himself  still  for  one,)  ^'  lest  the  Convocation,  whose 
power  of  meddling  with  church-matters  had  been  bridled  up  for  many 
years  before,  should,  now  enabled  with  such  power,  over-act  their 
parts,  especially  in  such  dangerous  and  discontented  times,"  as  it  after 
followeth.  "Wisely  foreseen !  But  then  why  did  not  we,  that  is  to 
say,  our  author,  and  the  rest  of  those  wise  and  judicious  persons,  fore- 
warn their  weak  and  unadvised  brethren  of  the  present  danger  ?  Or 
rather,  why  did  they  go  along  with  the  rest  for  company,  and  follow 
^  those  who  had  brfore  outrun  the  Canons,  by  their  additional  con- 
formity?" 

Fuller.*— Dear  "honour,^  indeed;  honos  omu !  for  which  I 
was  fined,  with  the  rest  of  my  brethren,  two  hundred  pounds,  by 
the  House  of  Commons,  though  not  put  to  pay  it ;  partly,  because 
it  never  passed  the  House  of  Lords ;  partly,  because  they  thought 
it  needless  to  shave  their  hair  whose  heads  they  meant  to  cut  off:  I 
tnean,  they  were  so  charitable  as  not  to  make  them  pay  a  fine  whose 
place  in  cathedrals  they  intended  not  long  after  to  take  away. 

I  insert  the  word  we,  not  to  credit  myself,  but  to  confirm  the 
reader;  relations  from  an 'eye-  and  ear-witness  meeting  with  the 
best  belief.  Such  insinuations,  of  the  writer  beinff  present  at  the  , 
actions  he  writeth  of  want  not  precedents  in  holy  and  profane 
authors.  Hence  it  is  collected,  that  St.  .Luke  accompanied  St. 
Paul  in  his  dangerous  voyage  to  Rome :  "  We  were  all  in  the 
ship  two  hundred  threescore  and  sixteen  souls,"  Acts  xxvii.  37. 

Let  the  Animadvertor  lay  what  load  he  pleaseth  on  me,  whose 
back  is  broad  and  big  enough  to  bear  it.  But  O  let  him  spare  my 
worthy  friends  !  some  now  glorious  saints  in  heaven^  bishop  West- 

2  Q  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


596  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  III. 

field,  Dr.  Holdaworth ;  and  some  of  the  higbest  repute  still  aliTC, 
whom  I  forbear  to  name.  It  comforteth  me  not  a  little,  that 
«<  God  hath  chosen  the  foolish  things  of  this  world  to  confound  the 
wise.^ 

Dr.  Heylin.— How  wise  the  test  were,  I  am  not  able  to  say.  But 
certain! J  our  author  showed  himself  '^  no  wiser  than  Walthsun's  calf, 
who  ran  nine  miles  to  suck  a  bull,  and  came  home  athirst,"  as  the 
proTerb  saith.  His  running  unto  Oxford,  which  cost  him  as  much  in 
serenteen  weeks,  as  he  had  spent  in  Cambridge  in  seventeen  years, 
was  but  a  second  sally  to  the  first  knight-errantry. 

Fuller. — I  can  patiently  comport  with  the  Animadvertors 
je€T$ ;  which  I  behold  as  so  many  firogs,  that  it  is  pretty  and  pleas- 
ing to  see  them  hop  and  skip  about,  having  not  much  harm  in  them. 
But  I  cannot  abide  his  railings ;  which  are  like  to  toads,  swelling 
with  venom  within  them.  Any  one  may  rail  who  is  bred  but  in 
Billingsgate-College :  and  I  am  sorry  to  hear  such  language  from 
the  Animadvertor,  a  Doctor  in  Divinity  ;  seeing  railing  is  as  much 
beneath  a  Doctor,  as  against  Divinity. 

When  Dr.  Turner,  a  physician  suflBciently  known,  gave  the  lie 
(at  the  earl  of  Pembroke's  table)  to  the  earl  of  Carnarvon :  "  I  will 
take  the  lie  from  you ;  ^  replied  the  earl,  "  but  I  will  never  take 
physic  from  you.^  If  such  railing  be  consistent  with  the  Doctor's 
Divinity,  this  once  I  will  take  the  calf^  but  never  learn  Divinity 
from.  him« 

Two  things  comfort  me  under  his  reviling.  First.  That  no 
worse  man  than  David  himself  complained,  that  he  became  '*  a 
PROVERB  to  his  enemies,''  Psalm  Ixix.  2.  Secondly.  Though  a 
calf  be  a  contemptible  creature,  passing  for  the  emblem,  not  (with 
the  dove)  of  simplicity,  but  of  plain  silliness ;  yet  is  it  a  clean  one, 
and  accepted  of  God  for  sacrifice,  Heb.  ix.  19.  Whereas  the  snarl- 
ing dog  (though  a  creature  of  far  more  cunning  and  sagacity)  was 
so  odious  and  unclean,  that  by  a  peculiar  law  it  was  provided,  that 
"  the  price  of  a  dog  should  not  be  brought  into  the  house  of  God," 
Deut.  xxiii.  18.     Our  author  thus  proceedeth  : — 

269,  270.  Dr.  Heyun. — "  Next  day  the  Convocation  came  toge- 
ther, &c.  when,  contrary  to  the  general  expectation,  it  was  mentioned 
to  improve  the  present,  opportunity  in  perfecting  the  new  Canons 
which  they  had  begim."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  406.)  I  have  not  heard 
of  any  such  motion  as  our  author  speaks  of,  from  any  who  were  pre- 
sent at  that  time,  though  I  have  diligently  laboured  to  inform  mjself 
in  it.  Nor  is  it  probable,  that  any  such  motion  should  be  made,  as  the 
case  then  stood.  The  Parliament  had  been  dissolved  on  Tuesday  the 
5th  of  May ;  the  clergy  met  in  Convocation  on  the  morrow  after, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH -HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.     597 

Expecting  then  to  be  dissolyed,  and  licensed  to  go  home  again.    But, 
^^  contrary  to  that  general  expectation,"  instead  of  hearing  some  news 
of  bis  majesty's  writ  for  their  dissolution,  there  came  an  order  from  the 
archbishop  to  the  Prolocutor,  to  adjourn  tijl  Saturday.     And  this  was 
all  the  business  which  was  done  that  day;  the  clergy  generally  being  in 
no  small  amazement,  when  they  were  required  not  to  dissolve  till 
further  order.     Saturday  being  come,  what  then  ?    ^^  A  new  commis- 
sion," saith  he,  ^  was  brought  from  his  majesty ;  by  virtue  whereof  wb 
were  warranted  still  to  sit,  not  in  the  capacity  of  a  Convocation,. but  of 
a  Synod."    .1  had  thought  our  author,  with  his  '^  wise  and  judicious 
friends,"  had  better  hearkened  to  the  tenor  of  that  Commission,  than 
to  come  out  with  such  a  gross  and  wild  absurdity,  as  this  is,  so  fit  for 
none  as  sir  Edward  Deering ;  and  for  him  only  to  make  sport  with  in 
the  House  of  Commons.     At  the  beginning  of  the  Convocation,  when 
the  Prolocutor  was  admitted,  the  archbishop  produced  his  majesty's 
commission  under  the  Great  Seal ;  whereby  the  clergy  were  enabled  to 
consult,  treat  of,  and  conclude  such  Canons,  as  they  conceived  most 
expedient  to  the  peace  of  the  church,  and  his  majesty's  service.     But 
this  commission  being  to  expire  with  the  end  of  the  Parliament ;  it 
became  void,  of  no  effect,  as  soon  as  the  Parliament  was  dissolved. 
Which   being  made  known  unto  the  king,  who  was  resolved  the 
Convocation  should  continue,  and  that  the  clergy  should  go  on  in 
completing  those  Canons  which  they  had  so  happily  begun ;  he  cavsed 
a  new  commission  to  be  sent  unto  them,  in  the  same  words,  and  to  th^ 
very  same  effect,  as  the  other  was.;  but  that  it  was  to  continue  durante 
heneplacito  only,  as  the  other  was  not, 

Fuller. — The  reader  may  take  notice,  that  there  is  some  differ- 
ence in  judgment  betwixt  the  Animadvertor  and  me ;  and  no  wonder 
then  if  some  (no  great,  I  hope)  variations  betwixt  us,  in  relating 
the  passages  of  this' Convocation,  each  of  us  observing  what  made 
most  for  his  own  interest.  The  reader  also  may  be  pleased  to  use 
his  own  discretion,  and  to  credit  him  whom  he  believeth  most 
probable  of  the  two,  exactly  to  observe,  firmly  to  remember,  and 
faithfully  to  relate,  what  we  saw  done,  (both  of  us  being  there.) 
and  since  borrowing  help  of  our  friends,  then  pFCsent,  where  we  fall 
short  in  our  intelligence. 

271.  Dr.  Heylin. — It  follows  next,  that  "Dr.  Brownrigg,  Dr. 
Hacket,  Dr.  Holdsworth,  &c,  with  others,  to  the  number  of  thirty- 
six,  earnestly  protested  against  the  continuance  of  the  Convocation." 
(Ibid.  J  It  is  possible  enough  that  Dr.  Brownrigg,  now  lord  bishop 
of  Exeter,  Dr.  Hacket,  and  the  rest  of  the  thirty-six,  our  author  being 
of  the  quorum,  (in  his  own  understanding  of  the  word,)  might  be 
unsatisfied  in  the  continuance  of  the  Convocation,  because  of  some 
offence,  which,  as  they  conceived,  would  be  taken  at  it.  But  if  they 
liad  protested,  and  protested  earnestly,  as  our  author  tells  us,  the  noise 
t>f  so  many  votes  concurring  must  needs  be  heard  by  all  the  rest  which 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


596  APPEAL  OF  INJURSP  INNOCENCE.       PART  III. 

weM  then  aitembled ;  firom  none  of  whicli  I  can  lean  any  tfaing  of  this 


Fuller.— I  am  nodiing  mo««d  iri&  kia  jeer,  wlien  le  alle& 
me  of  tlie  quorum  in  this  Convocation.  Mithridatea  king  of  Pontus 
18  commonly  reported  ao  habited  to  the  eating  of  ptMson,  thai  that 
which  was  nauseous  and  noxious  at  the  first,  by  custom  became  haim- 
less  unto  hin^p  I  am  so  used  to  the  bitter  jeers  of  the  Animadyertor, 
so  frequently  laid  in  my  dish,  that  now  Uiey  are  become  food,  not 
physic,  unto  me;  and  the  greatest  quantity  of  them  will  not  so  much 
as  stir  my  constitution  to  anger. 

It  seemeth  strange  to  me  indeed,  that  the  protest  of  the  dissenters 
was  not  heard  by  the  rest  in  the  Convocation ;  I  cannot  be  so 
uncharitable,  to  Uiink  them  in  this  point  like  those  of  whom  the 
aposde  speaketh,  Aavlavei  ykf  aurou^  t5to  deP^ovra^,  **  This  they 
are  wilfully  ignorant  of,^  2  Peter  iii.  5.  I  impute  it  rather  to  their 
foigetftJness;  most  of  them  surviving  bemg  aged  persons,  and  this 
done  more  than  sixteen  years  since.  For  though  it  be  true. 
Omnia  quce  eurant  senes  meminenmt ;  yet  were  they  more  prone 
to  oblivion  in  this  particular,  because  ^Hhey  cared  noi  for^  that 
protestation  they  disliked ;  and  therefore  never  chaiged  it  on  their 
memories. 

The  best  is,  I  may  speak  (I  hope  as  yet)  of  the  thirty-six 
dissenters,  in  the  same  language  of  the  apostle :  **  Of  whom  the  greater 
part  remain  until  this  present,  but  some  are  fallen  asleep,"^  1  Cor. 
XV.  6.  Bishop  Brownrigg,  Dr.  Hacket,  Dr.  Warmestiy,  &c.  are 
still  (and  may  they  long  be)  alive,  who  will  be  believed  in  this 
point,  that  they  protested  against  the  sitting  of  the  Convocation, 
after  the  dissolution  of  the  Parliament. 

Dr.  Hetlin. — Ot  if  they  did  protest  so  earnestly,  as  he  says  they 
did,  why  was  not  the  protestation  reduced  into  writing,  subscribed 
with  their  hands  in  due  form  of  law,  and  so  delivered  to  the  r^;ister  to 
remain  upon  record,  (amongst  the  other  Acts  of  that  House,)  for  their 
indemnity :  which  not  being  done,  rendereth  this  protest  of  theirs  (if 
any  such  protest  there  were)  to  signify  nothing,  but  their  dislike  of  the 
continuance. 

Fuller. — Herein  the  Animadvertor  doth  speak  a  sad  truth ; 
the  dissenters  were  ill-advised  herein,  whereby  their  protest  (signifi- 
cant only  in  their  own  consciences)  was  legally  rendered  of  none 
effect. 

But  herein  they  may  partly  be  excused,  because  they  (though 
not  entering  a  written  protest)  supposed  a  verbal  one  would  mani- 
fest their  dislike,  and  hoped  it  would  sufficiently  secure  them  £rom 
a  danger,  which  (though  suspected)  was  not  certam  to  ensue. 

This  afterwards  was  very  eagerly  urged  against  then^  by  a  Com^ 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  TH£  CHURCH-HISTOBY,  BOOK  XI.     599 

miitee  in  Parliament ;  and  sony  I  am^  that  they  could  not  make 
their  answer  as  clear  as  the  objection. 

272,  273.  Dr.  Hbyltn. — ^But  whereas  our  author  tells  us,  that 
**the  whole  House  consisted  but  of  six-score  persons,"  it  taay  be 
thought  that  he  diminisheth  the  number  of  set  purpose,  to  make  his 
own  party  seem  the  greater.  For,  in  the  lower  House  of  Convocation 
for  the  province  of  Canterbury,  if  all  parties  summoned  do  appear, 
there  are  no  fewer  than  two-and-twenty  deans,  four-and-twenty  pre- 
bendaries, fifty-four  archdeacons,  and  forty-four  clerks,  representing 
the  diocesan  dergy,  amounting  in  the  total  to  an  hundred  forty- 
four  persons;  whereof  Ae  thirty-six  protestors  (if  so  many  there 
were)  make  the  fourth  part  only.  Howsoever,  ail  parties  being  not  well 
satisfied  with  the  lawfulness  of  their  continuance,  his  majesty  was 
advertised  of  it ;  who,  upon  conference  with  his  Judges  and  CooQaei 
learned  in  the  laws,  caused  a  short  writing  to  be  drawn,  and  sub- 
scribed by  their  several  hands,  in  these  following  words ;  namely,  ^^  At 
Whitehall,  May  10th,  1640 :  The  Convocation,  being  called  by  the 
kings  writ,  is  to  continue  till  it  be  dissolved  by  the  king^s  writ,  not- 
withstanding the  dissolving  of  the  ParUament."  Subscribed  by  Finch 
Lord-Keeper,  Manchester  Lord  Privy  Seal,  Littleton  Chief  Justice 
of  the  Common  Pleas,  Banks  Attorney-General,  Whitfield  and 
Heath,  his  majest/s  Serjeants. 

Fuller. — I  protest,  and  now  will  enter  my  protestation,  in 
Kriptis^  (that  it  may  be  valid,)  I  had  no  design  either  to  subtract 
from  the  number  in  the  Convocation,  or  add  to  those  of  the  dis- 
senters. 

I  believe  the  Animadvertor  is  very  right  in  his  arithmetic  of  per- 
sons, in  the  provincial  Convocation  of  Canterbury. 

But  concerning  the  archdeacons,  give  me  leave  once  to  enlaige 
myself,  in  stating  their  true  number,  because  it  is  hard  to  find 
either  a  printed  or  written  catalogue  of  them,  which  is  exact  herein. 
They  are  generally  reckoned  up  but  fifty-two,  as  foUoweth  :— 

The  two  first  [columns]  containing  eighteen  a-piece,  the  last, 
sixteen;  which  are  but  fifty-two  in  my  arithmetic* 

[Bishopric  ofJ  St.  Asaph  :  [Archdeaconry  of]  St.  Asaph. — 
Bangor:  Bangor,  Anglesey,  Merioneth* — ^Bristol  :  Dorset. — 
Bath  and  Wells  :    WeUs,  Bath,  Taunton. — Canterbury  : 

Canterbury. Chichester  :     Chichester,      Lewes.— Coventry 

and  Lichfield  :  Stafford,  Derby,  Coventry,  Salop. — ^Ely  :  Ely. 
—Exeter  :  Exeter,  Cornwall,  Totness,  Barnstaple. — Glouces- 
ter :  Gloucester. — Hereford  :  Hereford,  Salop. — ^Loi^don  : 
London,  Middlesex,  Essex,  Colchester,  St.  Albans. — Lincoln: 

*  This  small  paragraph  refers  to  the  three  columns  in  which  this  list  of  Axcbdeacoa- 
^'^  was  printed  in  the  folio  edition.— Edit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


600  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PAJtT  III. 

Lincoln,  Stow,  Bedford,  Backingham,  Huntingdon,  Leicester. — 
Lakdaff  :  Landaff. — St.  David's  :  St.  DavidX  Caermarthen, 
Cardigan,  Brecknock. — Norwich  :  Norwich,  Norfolk,  Suffolk, 
Sudbury.— "-Oxford  :  Oxford. — Peterborough  :  Northampton. 
— Rochester  :  Rochester. — Salisbury  :  Wilts,  Berks,  Saram. 
—Winchester  :  Winchester,  Surrey, — Worcester  :  Wor- 
cester. 

This  is  the  best  printed  list  I  have  ever  seen,  presented  in 
Weaver's  "  Funeral  Monuments,"*  (pi^  886,  &c.)  having  the 
valuation  of  each  archdeaconry  annexed ;  taken,  as  he  saith^  (and  I 
believe  him  therein,)  out  of  sir  Robert  Cotton^s  library  ;  and  yet  I 
am  sure  it  is  not  complete. 

Wherefore  1  supply  Warwick,  (in  the  diocess  of  Worcester,)  as 
I  find  it  in  a  more  perfect  written  catalogue.  And  yet  still  one  is 
wanting,  even  Westminster,  whose  church  was  advanced  to  the  see 
of  a  bishop  by  king  Henry  VIII. ;  and  though  since  it  hath  been 
set  back  from  a  cathedral  to  a  collegiate-church ;  yet  it  still  retain- 
eth  the  honour  to  send  one  of  their  prebendaries  (by  the  titJe  of 
their  archdea>con)  to  the  Convocation.  And  thus  we  have  our  full 
number  of  fifty-four. 

But  whereas  the  Animadvertor  taxeth  me  for  saying,  "  The  Con- 
vocation consisted  of  six-score  :  ^'^  I  confess,  when  I  first  read  his 
words,  I  had  not  a  "  Church-History  "  by  me,  to  confute  it.  Yet 
I  conceived  such  positiveness  in  a  number  improbable  to  fall  from 
my  pen,  who  had  learned  this  lesson  from  the  best  of  teachers,  (the 
Spirit  of  God,)  not  to  be  peremptory,  but  to  leave  a  latitude  in 
numbers  of  this  nature.. 

In  Times  : — "  Darius  being  about  threescore  and  two  years 
old,''  Dan.  v.  31.  "  Jesus  began  to  be  about  thirty  years  of  age,'' 
Luke  iii.  23. 

In  Places  : — "  From  Jerusalem  about  sixty  furlongs,"  Luke 
xxiv;  13.  '*  Had  rowed  about  five-and-twenty  or  thirty  furlongs," 
John  vi.  19. 

In  Persons  ! — "  About  six  hundred  thousand  men  on  foot," 
Exod.  xii.  37.  "  Added  to  the  church  about  three  thousand  souls," 
Acts  ii.  41. 

But  upon  inspection  of  my  book,  my  words  were  :  "  The  whole 
House  consisting  of  about  six-score ;"  where  "  about"  is  receptive 
of  more  or  less.  Besides,  the  Convocation,  as  to  the  eflfectual 
managing  of  matters,  properly  consisted  not  of  the  members  belong- 
ing thereto,  but  present  therein ;  and  some  five-sqore  and  ten  was 
the  general  and  constant  appearance ;  the  rest  being  absent  for  age, 
sickness,  and  other  detentions. 

X>^.  Heyi^in. — Which  writing,  ("  an  instrument  *'  our  author  calls 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THB  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.      601 

it,)  being  commimicated  to  the  clergy  by  tbe  lord  arcbbisbop  om  Ar 
morrow  after,  did  so  compose  the  mindis  of  all  men,  that  they  went 
forwards  very  cheerfully  with  the  work  in  hand :  the  principal  of 
those  whom  our  author  calls  Dissenters  bringing  in  the  Canon  of 
preaching  for  conformity,  (being  the  eighth  Canon  in  the  book,  as  now 
they  are  placed,)  which  was  receiyed  and  allowed  of,  as  it  came  from 
his  hand  without  alteration. 

FuLi.EE. — ^And  calleth  it  "an  instrument*"  properly  enough 
both  to  the  original  notation,  and  modern  acceptation  of  the  word* 
Instrument  is  so  termed  ab  instruendo^  *'  from  instructing.***  This  wri- 
ting did  first  instmct  us  at  the  present,  that,  by  the  judgment  of  those 
great  statesmen  and  lawyers,  we  might  legally  continue,  notwithstand- 
ing the  dissolution  of  the  Parliament.  And,  since,  this  writing  hath 
(by  the  event  thereof)  instructed  us,  that,  seeing  the  judgments  of 
the  grandees  in  the  law  were  censured  erroneous  in  Parliament, 
it  is  unsafe  in  matters  of  this  nature  to  rely  on  the  opinions  of  any 
(comparatively)  private  persons. 

As  for  the  modem  acceptation  of  the  word,  I  appeal  to  the  critics 
in  language,  whether  this  writing  (as  the  Animadvertor  is  fiiin  to 
term  it)  of  the  Judges  may  not  be  called  by  the  general  name  of 
"  instrument,"  harmoniously  enough  to  the  propriety  thereof. 

27i  Dr.  Heylin. — Howsoever,  our  author  keeps  himself  to  his 

former  folly,  shutting  up  his  extravagancy  with  this  conclusion  :  "  Thus 

was  an  old  Convocation  converted  into  a  new  Synod."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol. 

iii.  p.  407.)     An  expression  borrowed  from  the  speech  of  a  "  witty 

gentleman,"  as  he  is  called  by  the  author  of  "  the  History  of  the  Reign 

of  King  Charles,"  and  since  by  him  declared  to  be  the  lord  George 

Digby,  now  earl  of  Bristol.     But  he  that  spent  most  of  his  wit  upon 

it,  and  thereby  gave  occasion  unto   others  for  the  like  mistakings, 

was   sir  Edward  Deering,  in    a  speech  made  against  these  Canons^ 

anno  1640;   where  we  find  these  flourishes:  "Would  you  confute 

the  Convocation?     They  were  a  holy   Synod.     Would  you  argue 

against  the  Synod  ?    Why,  they  were  Commissioners.     Would  you 

dispute  the  Commission?     They  will  mingle  all  powers  together,  and 

answer,  that  they  were  some  fourth  thing,  that  neither  we  know  nor 

imagine ;  that  is  to  say,"  (as  it  follows  afterwards,  page  27,)  "  a  convo- 

cational-synodical  Assembly  of  Commissioners."  *    More  of  this  fine 

stuff  we  may  see  hereafter.     In  the  mean  time  we  may  judge,  by  this 

remnant,  of  the  whole  piece ;  and  find  it  upon  proof  to  be  very  slight, 

and  not  worth  the  wearing.    For,  First,  the  gentleman  could  not,  and 

our  author  cannot,  choose  but  know,  that  a  Convocation  and  a  Synod 

(as  used  in  England  of  late  times)  are  but  the  same  one  thing  under 

divers  names,  the  one  borrowed  from  a  Grecian — ^the  other  from  a 

Latin— original ;  the  Convocation  of  the  clergy  of   the  province  of 

•  "Collection  of  Speeclies,"  p.  26. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


APPSAL  OF  INJVMMD  INNOCSMCB.      PABT  III. 

Cateboij  haag  nodmiK  Imt  a  PioTiiicial  SfM^;  as  a  National 
Sjiiod  is  noihiag  dse  bat  tbe  CoBToeslioa  of  the  dctgj  of  botb  pro- 
Tinoes.  Seooadly.  Oor  aatkor  knows  bj  this  tiaie^  tiiat  the  Ganunis- 
skm,  which  seems  to  make  this  doqghtj  diiSetenoey  changed  not  the 
Conrocation  into  a  Synod,  (at  s<»ne  Tainlj  think,)  bat  only  made  that 
ConTocation  actire  in  order  to  the  making  of  Canons,  whidi  otherwise 
had  been  able  to  proceed  no  further  than  the  giant  of  snbaidies. 
Thirdly.  That  nothing  is  more  ordinary  than  fdv  the  Conyocations  of 
all  times  since  the  Reformation  to  take  nnto  themselres  the  name  of 
Synods.  For,  *^the  Articles  of  Religion,"  made  in  the  Gonyocation 
anKo  1552,  are  called,  in  the  title  of  the  book,  Articuli  de  quibus  in 
Synodo  Londinensi  convenity  S^c,  The  same  name  giyen  to  those 
agreed  on  in  the  Gonyocation,  anno  1562,  as  appears  by  the  title  of 
that  book  also,  in  the  Latin  edition.  The  Canons  of  the  year  1571 
are  Haid  to  be  concluded  and  agreed  upon  in  Synodo  inchoaid  Land, 
in  cede  Divi  Faulty  S^c.  In  the  year  1575  came  oat  a  Book  of  Arti- 
cles, with  this  title  following ;  namely,  *^  Artides  whereapon  it  was 
agreed  by  the  most  reyerend  Father  in  CK>d  the  Archbishop  of  Can- 
terbary,  and  other  the  Bishops,  and  the  whole  Clergy  in  the  Proyince 
of  Canterbary,  in  the  Conyocation  or  Synod  holden  at  Westminster." 
The  like  we  find  in  the  year  1597,  (being  the  last  actiye  Gonyocation 
in  queen  Elizabeih's  time,)  in  which  we  meet  with  a  book  entitoled, 
Contiitutiones  EcclenasticaSy  ^c,  in  Synodo  inchoatd  Londini  vicetimo 
quinto  Die  Metisis  Octobris. 

Fuller.— I  request  the  reader  would  be  pleased  to  call  to  his 
remembrance  a  passage  of  the  Animadyertor  s,  on  my  fifth  book, 
relating  to  the  reign  of  king  Henry  VIII. : — 

^'  I  must  confess  myself  to  be  at  a  loss  in  this  intricate  labyrintfa, 
unless,  perhaps,  there  were  some  critical  difference  in  those  elder 
times  between  a  Synod  and  a  Conyocation ;  the  first  beiog 
called  by  the  archbishops  in  their  several  and  respective  provinces, 
as  the  necessities  of  the  church — the  other  only  by  the  king,  as 
his  occasions  and  affairs — did  require  the  same.^^  * 

I  find  myself  now  in  the  like  labyrinth,  and  can  meet  with  no 
Ariadne'^s  thread  to  extricate  myself.  I  confess,  commonly.  Convo- 
cation and  Synod  pass  for  synonymes,  signifying  one  and  the  same 
thing ;  yet  some  make  this  nice  difference  :— 

1.  Convooationy  which  is,  in  the  beginning  and  ending,  parallel 
with  the  Parliament. 

2.  Synody  which  is  called  by  tjie  king  out  of  Parliament. 

I  acknowledge  myself  a  seeker  in  this  point,  and  will  not  wilfully 
bolt  mine  eyes  against  the  beams  of  truth,  by  whomsoever  ddivered. 
Meantime,  I  crave  leave  to  enter  this  my  dissatisfiiction  herein, 
seeing  the  Animadvertor  so  lately  did  confess  his  in  a  thing  of  the 
like  nature. 

*  See  page  467  of  thiff  volume. — Edit, 


Digitized  by 


Googk 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THS  CHUMH-BlSTOftT,  BOOK  XI.     603 

Dr.  Hjnru]i^--X>Br  antli«r,  finallj,  u  to  know,  that  tlioiigh  tho 
membent  of  the  two  Gonyocations  of  York  and  Canterbury  did  not 
meet  in  person,  yet  they  conununicated  their  counsebi,  the  results  of 
the  one  being  dispatched  unto  the  other,  and  there  agreed  on  ox 
rejected,  as  they  saw  cause  for  it. 

FuLLEA.— I  am  not  to  know  it,  fori  knew  it  before, and  nothing 
in  my  book  i^pears  to  the  contrary,  that  the  two  provincial  Synods 
privately  did  communicate  their  transactions,  as  they  were  in  fieri^ 
^^  in  the  making ;  ^^  and  at  last  publicly,  namely,  when  we  at  West* 
minster  bad  completed'  the  Canons,  by  our  subscription  thereunto. 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^Which,  laid  together,  shows  the  vanity  of  another 

passage  in  the  speech  of  sir  Edward  Deering,  where  he  vapoureth 

thus;  namely,   *'A  strange  Commission,  wherein  no  one  Commis* 

sioner  s  name  is  to  be  found ;  a  strange  Convocation,  that  lived  when 

the  Parliament  was  dead ;  a  strange  holy  Synod,  where  one  part  neyer 

saw,  never  conferred  with  the  other."    Lastly.  Sir  Edward  Deering 

seems  to  marvel  at  the  title  of  the  Book  of  Canons  then  in  ijuestion, 

expressing,  that  ^'  they  were  treated  upon  in  Convocation,  agreed  upon 

in  Synod."     '^  And  this,"  saith  he,  ^^  is  a  new  mould  to  oast  Canons  in, 

never  used  before."    But  had  he  looked  upon  the  title  of  the  Book  of 

Canons,  anr%o  1603,  he  had  found  it  otherwise.  The  title  this :  namely, 

^'Constitutions  and  Canons  Ecclesiastical,  treated  by  the  Bishop  of 

London,  President  of  the  Convocatiim  for  the  Province  of  Canterbury, 

&c.  and  agreed  upon  with  the  King's  Majesty's  Licence  in  their  Synod 

begun  at  London,  anno  1603."    And  so  much  for  the  satisfaction  of 

all  such  persons,  whom  either  that  gentleman,  or  this  our  author,  has 

misinformed,  and  consequently  abused  in  this  particular. 

FuLLEB."— He  hath  now  vapoured  out  that,  which  by  the 
apostle  is  termed  even  **  a  vapour  which  appeareth  for  a  little  time 
and  then  vanisheth  away,^  James  iv.  4.  Being  dead,  tjie  Animad- 
vertor  might  have  spared  this  expression  upon  him. 

I  believe  neither  he  nor  the  author  did  wittingly  or  willingly  mis- 
inform any,  and  therefore  cannot  by  any  charitable  pen  be  justly 

condemned  for  abusing  them.    Our  author  proceeds : — 

275.  Dr.  Heylin.^ — ^^  Now  because  great  bodies  more  slowly,  &c, 
it  was  thought  fit  to  contract  the  Synod  into  a  select  Conmaittee  of 
Bome  twenty-six,  beside  ihe  Prolocutor."  (Ch.  Hist  vol.  iii.  p-  407.) 
No  such  contracting  of  the  Synod  as  our  authcnr  speaks  of.  There  was 
indeed  a  Conmuttee  of  twenty-six,  or  thereabouts,  appointed  to  conm- 
der  of  a  Canon  for  uniformity  in  some  rites  and  ceremonies ;  of  which 
number  were  the  principal  of  those  whom  he  calls  Dissenters,  and  our 
author  too  amongst  the  rest ;  who  having  agreed  upon  the  Canon,  it 
was  by  them  presented  to  the  rest  of  the  clafgy  in  Conrocation,  and 
ty  them  approved.    And  possible  it  is,  that  ihe  drawing-np  of  some 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


504  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.       PART  III. 

other  Canons  might  be  referred  also  to  that  Committee,  (as  is  accus- 
tomed in  sach  cases,)  without  contracting  the  whole  House  into  that 
small  bodj,  or  exduding  any  man  from  being  present  at  their  con- 
sultation. 

Fuller. — I  know  not  what  offence  the  word  "contracting'' 
may  give  ;  but  my  meaning,  obvious  to  any  reader,  is  this, — that  a 
select  Committee  was  appointed,  to  prepare  matters  of  greatest 
importance ;  no  member  being  excluded  from  being  present  at,  but 
from  giving  a  vote  in,  that  consultation. 

276.  Dr.  Hetlin. — But  whereas  our  author  afterwards  tells  us, 
that  ^*  nothing  should  be  accounted  the  act  of  the  House  till  thiice 
(as  he  lakes  it)  publicly  voted  therein."  (Idem^  ibid.  J  It  is  but  as 
he  takes  it,  or  mistakes  it,  rather ;  and  so  let  it  go. 

Fuller. — He  ndight  have  allowed  me  the  liberty  of  that  modest 
parenthesis,  ["  as  I  take  it,^]  without  carping  at  it.  Some  things, 
I  confess,  (having  since  better  informed  myself,)  passed  at  the  first 
time ;  but  others  which  were  merely  new  were  thrice  read,  on  the 
same  token  that  it  occasioned  the  contest  betwixt  the  Prolocutor 
and  Dr.  Holdsworth. 

277.  Dr.  Hbylin. — ^But  I  needed  not  to  have  signified,  that  onr 
author  was  one  of  this  Committee,  he  will  tell  it  himself;  and  he 
will  tell  us  more  than  that,  publishing  himself  for  one  of  the  thirty-six 
Dissenters,  the  better  to  ingratiate  himself  with  the  rising  side.  "  The 
next  day,"  (so  he  lets  us  know,)  "we  all  subscribed  the  Canons; 
suffering  ourselves  (according  to  the  order  of  such  meetings)  to  be  all 
concluded  by  the  majority  of  votes,  though  some  of  us  in  the  Commit- 
tee privately  dissented  in  the  passing  of  many  particulars."  (Ch.  Hist, 
vol.  iii.  p.  409.)  So  then  our  author  was  content  to  play  the  good- 
fellow  at  the  last,  and  go  along  hand  in  hand  with  the  rest  of  his  com- 
pany ;  dissenting  privately,  but  consenting  publicly,  which  is  as  much 
as  can  be  looked  for. 

Fuller. — It  is  not  worth  the  while  for  him  who  is  falling  into 
the  grave  to  endeavour  to  ingratiate  himself  with  any  "  rising  side." 
I  appeal  to  the  Animadvertor'^s  own  conscience,  if  I  have  not  writ- 
ten the  plain  truth  herein.     Our  author  proceeds  :— 

278.  Dr.  Heylin. — "  No  sooner  came  these  Canons  abroad  into  a 
public  view,  but  various  were  men's  censures  upon  them."  (Ch.  Hist 
vol.  iii.  p.  409.)  Not  possible  that,  in  such  a  confusion  both  of  affec- 
tions and  opinions,  it  should  otherwise  be.  Non  omnibus  una  volun- 
tas^ was  a  note  of  old,  and  will  hold  true  as  long  as  "  there  are  many 
men  to  have  many  minds."  And  yet,  if  my  information  deceive  me 
not,  these  Canons  found  great  approbation  from  the  mouths  of  some, 
from  whom  it  had  been  least  expected;    particularly  from  Justice 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.      605 

Crook,  whose  argumentin  the  case  of  Ship-monej  was  printed  after- 
wards hy  the  Order  of  the  House  of  Commons.  Of  whom  I  haye 
heen  told,  hj  a  person  of  great  worth  and  credit,  that,  having  read 
oyer  the  Book  of  Canons,  when  it  first  came  out,  he  lifted  up  his 
hands,  and  gave  hearty  thanks  to  Almighty  God,  that  he  had  lived  to 
see  such  good  effects  of  a  Convocation.  It  was  very  well  that  they 
pleased  him ;  hut  that  they  should  please  all  men,  was  not  to  he 
hoped  for. 

Fuller. — This  is  all  additory,  nothing  at  all  opposite,  to  what 
I  have  written  ;  so  we  may  proceed.     Our  author  proceeds  : — 

279.  Dr.  Heylin. — "  Many  took  exception  at  the  hollowness  of 
the  oath  in  the  middle  thereof,  having  its  bowels  puffed  up  with  a 
windy  et  cetera^  a  cheveril  word,  which  might  be  stretched  as  men 
would  measure  it.*  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  410.)  Of  this  et  cetera^ 
which  has  made  so  much  noise  in  the  world,  I  shall  now  say  nothing. 
Somewhat  is  here  subjoined  by  our  author  in  excuse  thereof,  the  rest 
made  up  by  the  Observator.  Only  I  shall  make  bold  to  ask  him,  why 
he  observed  not  this  et  cetera  when  the  oath  was  first  under  considera- 
tion ?  or  why  he  signified  not  his  dissent  when  it  came  to  the  vote, 
and  showed  some  reasons  which  might  move  him  to  object  against  it  ? 
It  had  been  fitter  for  ^^  a  wise  and  judicious  man  "  to  signify  his  dislike 
of  any  thing  when  it  might  be  mended,  than  to  join  with  others  in 
condemning  it  when  it  was  past  remedy. 

Fuller. — I  was  not  sensible  of  any  just  cause  of  exception 
therein.  The  Animadvertor  confesseth,  that  I  have  subjoined 
"  somewhat  ^  in  the  excuse  thereof.  And  let  me  add,  that  that 
"  somewhat  ^  is  as  much  to  purpose  in  defence  of  that  oath,  (being 
borrowed  from  as  learned  and  pious  a  pen  as  England  then 
enjoyed,)  asvany  thing  that  the  Animadvertor  or  his  party  can 
allege.  Wherefore,  except  "joining  with  those  who  do  defend  it'^ 
be  the  same  with  "joining  with  those  who  do  condemn  it,""  the 
Animadvertor  hath  unjustly  ranked  me  amongst  the  latter. 

280.  Dr.  Heylin. — But,  mala  mens,  mains  animus^  as  the  saying 
is.  The  Convocation  had  no  ill  intent  in  it  when  they  passed  it  so  ; 
though  some  few,  out  of  their  perverseness  and  corrupt  affections,  were 
willing  to  put  their  own  sense  on  it,  and  spoil  an  honest-meaning  text 
with  a  factious  gloss.  But  let  us  follow  our  author  as  he  leads  the 
way,  and  we  shall  find,  that 

"  Some  bishops  were  very  forward  in  pressing  this  oath,  even  before 
the  time  thereof.  For,  whereas  a  liberty  was  allowed  to  all  to  delibe- 
rate thereon,  until  the  Feast  of  Michael  the  Archangel,  some  presently 
pressed  the  ministers  of  their  diocesses  for  the  taking  thereof."  (Ch. 
Hist  voL  iii.  p.  411.)  It  seems  by  this,  that  our  author  was  so  far 
from  taking  notice  of  any  thing  done  in  the  Convocation,  when  the 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


606  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  FART  III. 

Oanon  for  the  oath  was  framed,  that  he  nerer  so  much  as  looked  into 
the  Canon  itself  since  the  hook  came  out.  He  had  not  else  dreamed 
of  a  liberty  of  deHberation  till  the  Feast  of  St.  Michael  the  Archangel, 
which  I  am  smre  the  Canon  gires  not.  The  Synod  did  indeed  decree, 
that  ^  all  archbishops  and  bishops,  and  all  other  priests  and  deacons, 
in  places  exempt  or  not  exempt,  should,  before  the  second  daj  of 
Norember  next  ensuing,  take  the  following  oath,  against  all  innovation 
of  doctrine  or  discipline."  *  By  which  we  see,  that  the  oath  was  to 
be  given  and  taken  before  the  second  of  November  ;  but  no  such  thing 
as  liberty  of  deliberation  till  the  Feast  of  St.  Michael.  And  tberefoie 
if  some  bishops  did  press  ihe  clei^  of  their  several  and  respectiye 
diocessea,  as  soon  as  they  returned  home  from  the  Convocation,  ihej 
mi(^t  well  do  it  by  the  Canon,  without  making  any  such  ^^  essay  of 
their  activity,  if  Providence,"  as  our  author  most  wisely  words  it,  ^^  had 
not  prevented  them." 

FoLLER.— Though  there  was  no  solemn  order  entered  or  printed, 
yet  am  I  sure,  (having  cause  to  be  assured  thereof,)  such  a  con- 
descension was  agreed  on ;  and  I  know  who  did  plead  the  benefit 
of  such  deliberation,  on  the  same  token  it  was  denied  to  him. 

281.  Dr.  Heylin. — If  any  of  the  bishops  did  require  their  clergy 
to  take  the  oath  upon  their  knees,  (as  he  says  they  did,)  though  it  be 
more  than  was  directed  by  the  Canon,  yet  I  conceive  that  no  wise 
man  would  scruple  at  it,  considering  the  gravity  and  greatness  of  the 
business  which  he  was  about. 

Fuller.— The  oaths  of  allegiance  and  supremacy,  being  of  as 
high  and  holy  a  nature  and  concernment,  are  never  urged  in  that 
posture.  All  things  are  disposed  of  by  Divine  Providence ;  and 
let  the  Doctor  write  against  me  what  he  pleaseth ;  but  take  heed 
how  he  writes  corrective  Animadversions  on  the  proceedings  of  the 
Greatest  and  Best  of  Beings. 


2.  Dr.  HEYLIN.<*-But  then,  ^^the  exception  of  exceptions  was, 
because  they  were  generally  condemned  as  illegally  passed,  to  the  pre- 
judice of  the  fundamental  liberty  of  the  subject ;  whereof  we  shall 
hear  enough  in  the  next  Parliament."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  410.) 
Not  ^'  generally  condemned,"  either  ^'  as  illegally  passed,"  or  as  tending 
to  ^'  prejudice  of  the  subjects'  rights,"  I  am  sure  of  that.  Scarce  so 
much  as  condenmed  by  any  for  those  respects,  but  by  such  whom  it 
concerned  (for  carrying  on  of  their  designs)  to  weaken  the  authority 
of  the  church,  and  advance  their  own.  But  because  our  author  tells 
us,  that  we  shall  find  enough  of  this  in  the  following  Parliament,  we 
are  to  follow  him  to  that  Parliament  for  our  satisfaction :  and  there  we 
find,  that  Mr.  Maynard  made  a  speech,  in  the  Committee  of  Lords, 

•  Canon  vii.,  1640. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ iC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCHHISTORY,  BOO&  XI.      ^ 

against  the  Canons  made  by  the  bishops  in  tke  hst  Conrocation, 
"  in  which  he  endeavoured  to  proye,"  &c. 

Fuller. — Diogenes  being  demanded  what  one  should  give  him 
to  strike  on  the  head  as  haid  as  he  could ;  ^^  Give  me,^^  said  he, 
"  but  an  helmet.''  Well  fare  my  helmet,  the  seasonable  interposi- 
tion of  the  wofd  "  e?ndeavoured  !''  which  hath  secured  me  from  the 
blows  of  ilte  Animadvertor,  and  perchance  his  hand  thereby 
retunded.  Besides,  I  have  a  double  helmet ;  Mr.  (now  Serjeant) 
Maynard,  no  less  eminently  kiiown  for  his  skill  in  law,  than  for  his 
love  to  the  clergy,  by  pleading  so  effectually  (in  his  success  as  well 
as  desire)  for  their  tithes.  Wherefore,  being  weary  with  this  long 
contest,  I  resolve  for  a  while  even  to  take  my  natural  rest,  and  will 
quietly  sleep,  untU  jogged  by  that  which  particularly  concemeth 
me. 

283 — ^286.  Dr.  Hetlin. — ^^'  Endeavoured  to  prove,  that  the  clergy 
had  no  power  to  make  Canons,  without  common  consent  in  Parliament, 
because,  in  the  Saxon  times,  laws  and  constitutions  ecclesiastical  had 
the  confirmation  of  peers,  and  sometimes  of  the  people ;  to  which 
great  Councils  our  Parliaments  do  succeed."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  424.) 
Which  argument,  if  it  be  of  force  to  prove,  that  the  clergy  can  make 
no  Canons  without  consent  of  the  peers  and  people  in  Parliament ;  it 
must  prove  also,  that  the  peers  and  people  can  make  no  statutes  with- 
out consent  of  the  clergy  in  their  Convocation.  My  reason  is,  because 
such  Councils  in  the  times  of  the  Saxons  were  mixed  assemblies,  con- 
sisting as  well  of  laics  as  of  ecclesiastics ;  and  the  matters  there  con- 
cluded on  of  a  mixed  nature  also,  laws  being  passed  as  commonly  in 
them  in  order  to  the  good  governance  of  the  commonwealth,  as  Canons 
for  the  regulating  such  things  as  concerned  religion.  But  these  gretit 
Councils  of  the  Saxons  being  divided  into  two  parts  in  the  times  ensu- 
ing, the  clergy  did  their  work  by  themselves,  without  any  confirmation 
from  the  king  or  Parliament,  till  the  submission  of  the  clergy  to  king 
Henry  YIII.  And  if  the  Parliaments  did  succeed  in  the  place  of 
those  great  Councils,  (as  he  says  they  did,)  it  was  because  that  anci- 
ently the  Procurators  of  the  clergy,  not  the  bishops  only,  had  their 
place  in  Parliament,  though  neither  peers  nor  people  voted  in  the 
Convocations.  Which  being  so,  it  is  not  much  to  be  admired,  '^  that 
there  was  some  checking  "  (as  is  said  in  the  Second  argument)  ^^  about 
the  disuse  of  the  general  making  of  such  church-laws."  But  checking 
or  repining  at  the  proceeding  of  any  superior  court,  makes  not  the 
Acts  thereof  illegal ;  for,  if  it  did,  the  Acts  of  Parliaments  themselves 
would  be  reputed  of  no  force,  or  illegally  made,  because  the  clergy  for 
a  long  time  have  checked  (and  think  they  have  good  cause  to  check) 
for  their  being  excluded.  Which  checking  of  the  Commons  appears 
iiot  only  in  those  ancient  authors  which  the  gentleman  cited,  but  in 

the  remonstrance  tendered  by  them  to  king  Henry  VIII.  exemplified 


Digitized  by 


Google 


608  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.       PART  III. 

at  laige  in  these  AnimadTenions  on  the  third  book  of  the  ^^  Churdi' 
History,"  No.  61.*     Bat  because  this,  being  a  record  of  the  Conroca- 
tion,  may  not  come  within  the  walk  of  a  Ckimmon-Lawjer,  I  shall  pat 
him  in  mind  of  that  memorable  passage  in  the  Parliament,  51  Edward 
III.;  which  in  brief  was  this:    The  Commons  finding  themselyes 
aggnered,  as  well  with  certain  constitutions  made  bj  the  deigy  in 
their  Synods,  as  with  some  laws  or  ordinances  which  were  lately 
passed,  more  to  the  advantage  of  the  clafgy  than  the  common  people, 
put  in  a  Bill  to  this  effect ;  namely,  ^'  That  no  Act  nor  Ordinance 
should  from  thenceforth  be  made  or  granted  on  the  petition  of  the  said 
clei^,  without  the  consent  of  the  Commons ;  and  that  the  said  Com- 
mons should  not  be  bound,  in  times  to  come,  by  any  Constitutions 
made  by  the  clergy  of  this  realm,  for  their  own  advantage,  to  which 
the  Commons  of  this  realm  had  not  given  consent."    The  reason  of 
which  is  this,  (and  it  is  worth  the  marking,)  Car  eux  ne  veulent  estre 
obUgez  a  nul  de  vos  Estatuz  ne  Ordinances  faitz  sanz  leur  assent^ 
**  Because  the  said   clergy  did    not  think  themselves  bound"  (as 
indeed  they  were  not  in  those  times)  "  by  any  Statute,  Act,  or  Ordi- 
nance, made  without  their  assent  in  the  Court  of  Parliament."    But 
that  which  could  not  be  obtained  by  this  checking  of  the  Commons, 
in  the  declining  and  last  times  of  king  Edward  III.  was  in  some  part 
effected  by  the  more  vigorous  prosecution  of  king  Henry  VIIL  who, 
to  satisfy  the  desires  of  the  Commons  in  this  particular,  and  repress 
their  checkings,  obtained  from  the  clergy,  that  they  should  neither 
make  nor  execute  any  Canons  without  his  consent,  as  before  is  said  ; 
so  that  the  king's  power  of  confirming  Canons  was  grounded  on  the 
free  and  voluntary  submission  of  the  clergy,  and  was  not  built,  as  the 
Third  argument  objecteth,  on  so^  weak  a  foundation  as  ^^  the  pope's 
making  Canons  by  his  sole  power:"  the  pope  not  making  Canons 
here,  nor  putting  his  Prescripts  and  letters  decretoiy  in  the  place  of 
Canons,  but  only  as  a  remedy  for  some  present  exigency.     So  that  the 
king's  power  in  this  particular  not  being  built  upon  the  pope's,  as  he 
said  it  was,  it  may  well  stand,  '^  that  kings  may  make  Canons  without 
consent  of  Parliament/'  though  he  saith  they  cannot.    But  whereas  it 
is  argued,  in  the  Fourth  place,  that  the  clause  in  the  Statute  of  Sub- 
mission, in  which  it  is  said,  that  ^'  the  clergy  shall  not  make  Canons 
¥dthout  the  king's  leave,"  doth  not  imply,  that  by  his  leave  alone  they 
may  make  them ;  1  cannot  think  that  he  delivered  this  for  law,  and 
much  less  for  logic.     For,  had  this  been  looked  on  formerly  as  a  piece 
of  law,  the  Parliaments  would  have  checked  at  it  at  some  time  or 
other,  and  been  as  sensible  of  the  king's  encroachments,  in  executing 
this  power  without  them,  as  anciently  some  of  them  had  been  ahout 
the  disuse  of  the  like  general  consent  in  the  making  of  them. 
PiTLLEE — Dormit  seeurus, 

287.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^In  the  next  place  our  author  teUs  us  that, 

•  See  pages  417—419  of  thia  volnme Edit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


At^lMTADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.       609» 

"  Mr.  Maynard  endeavoured  also  to  prove,  that  these  Canons  were 
against  the  king's  prerogative,  the  rights,  liberties,  and  properties  of 
the  subject."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  424.)     And  he  saith  well,  that  it 
was  "  Endeavoured   to  be  proved,"  and  endeavoured  only ;  nothing 
amounting  to  a  proof  being  to  be  found  in  that  which  follows.     It  had 
before  been  voted  by  the  House  of  Commons,  that  '^  the  Canons  are 
against  the  fundamental  laws  of  this  realm,  against  the  king's  prerogative^ 
properij^  of  the  subject,  the  rights  of  Parliament,  and  do  tend  to  factiosb 
and  sedition."    And  it  was  fit  that  some  endeavours  should  be  used  tQ 
make  *good  the  vote.     But.  this,  being  but  a  general  charge,  requires  a 
general  answer  only ;  and  it  shall  be  this  :  '^  Before  the  Canons  were 
subscribed,  they  were  imparted  to  the   king  by  the  archbishop  of 
Canterbury,  and  by  the   king  communicated  to  the  Lords  of  thtf 
Council ;  who,  calling  to  them  the  assistance  of  the  Judges,  and  some 
of  the  king^s  Counsel  learned  in  the  laws  of  this  realm,  caused  the  said 
Canons  to  be  read  and  considered  of,  the  king  being  then  present. 
By  all  which,  upon  due  and  mature  deliberation,  the  Canons  werei 
approved  ;  and,  being  so  approved,  were  sent  back  to  the  qlergy  in  the 
Convocation,  and  by  them  subscribed."  *    And  certainly  it  had  been 
strange,  that  they  should  pass  the  approbation  of  the  judges  and 
learned  lav^rs,  had  they  contained  any  thing  '' against  the  funda- 
mental laws  of  the  land,  the  property  of  the  subject,  and  the  rights  of 
Parliament,"  or  been  approved  of  by  the  Lords  of  his  majest/s  Coun* 
cil,  had  any  thing  been  contained  in  them  *'  derogatory  to  the  king's 
prerogative,  or  tending  to  faction  and  sedition."     So  that  the  founda- 
tion being  ill  laid,  the  superstructures  and  objections  which  are  bUilt 
Upon  it  mhj  be  easily  shaken  and  thrown  down.     To  the  First  there- 
fore it  is  answered,  that  nothing  hath  been  more  ordinary  in  all  former 
times,  than  for  the  Canons  of  the  church  to  inflict  penalties  on  such  as 
slall  disobey  them ;  exemplified  in  the  late  Canons  of  1603,  many  of 
tvhich  extend  not  only  unto  excommunication,  but  even  to  degradation 
and  irregularity,  for  which  see  Canons  38,  113,  &c.     To  the  Second, 
that  there  is  nothing  in  those  Canons  which  determineth  or  limiteth 
the  king's  Authority,  but  much  that  makes  for  and  defendeth  the  right 
of  the  subject,  for  which  the  Convocation  might  jrather  have  expected 
thanks  than  censure  from  ensuing  Parliaments.     To  the  Third,  that 
when  the  Canon  did  declare  the  government  of  kings  to  be  founded  on 
the  law  of  nature,  it  was  not  to  condemn  all  other  governments  as^ 
being  unlawful,  but  to  commend  that  of  the  kings  as  being  the  best. 
Nor  can  it  logically  be  inferred,  that  because  the  kingly  government  is 
Dot  received  in  all  places,  that  therefore  it  ought  not  so  to  be  :  or  that 
wie  government  (by  this  Canon)  should  be  the  same  in  all  places,,  and 
w  all  alike ;  because  some  kings  do  and  may  lawfully  parit  with  many 
of  their  rights  for  the  good  of  their  subjects ;  which  others  do  and  may 
^  l&wfuUy  retain  unto  themselves.     To  the  Fourth,  that  the  doctrine 

•  <*  History  of  King  Charles,"  fol.  208.  ' 
R    E 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


610  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  FA^ftT  HI. 

of  non-Yeofttanee  is  built  expressly  on  the  words  of  St.  Paul,  Bom. 
xiiL  2 ;  and  therefore  to  condemn  the  Canon  in  that  behalf,  is  to  eon- 
denm  the  word  of  €h>d  npon  which  it  is  founded.  Finallj,  to  the 
Fifth  and  kst,  that  the  statute  of  5,  6  Edward  VI.  dedaring,  that  the 
dajs  there  mentioned  shall  be  kept  for  holy-^ays,  and  no  other,  relates 
only  to  the  abolishing  of  some  oth^  festiyals,  which  had  been,  formerly 
observed  in  the  realm  of  England,  and  not  to  the  disabling  of  the 
ehnrch  from  ordaining  any  other  holy-days  (on  emergent  causes)  in 
the  times  to  come. 

Poller — Darmit  iecurus. 

Dr.  Hbtlin. -^Assuredly  that  able  lawyer  would  have  apokcn  mors 
home  unto  the  point,  could  the  cause  hare  borne  it.  Eloquentemfacit 
tausas  baniiasy  in  the  orator's  language.  And  therefore,  looking  on 
the  heads  of  the  arguments,  (as  our  author  represents  them  to  us,)  I 
must  needs  think,  that  they  were  rather  fitted  to  the  sense  of  the 
House,  than  they  were  to  his  own. 

Fuller. — I  now  begin  to  awake,  and  rub  my  eyes,  hearing 
somewhat  wherein  I  am  concerned,  as  if  L  had  unfaithfully  related 
these  arguments. 

I  confess  it  is  but  a  breviate  of  them,  accommodated  to  the  pro- 
portion of  my  book ;  and  had  they  been  at  large,  much  lustre  must 
be  lost  whilst  related,  seeing  none  but  Mr.  Maynard  can  repeat  the 
arguments  of  Mr.  Maynard  to  equal  advantage.  However,  I  had 
them  from  as  observant  and  judicious  a  person  as  any  in  the  House 
of  Lords;  and  if  I  should  name  him,  the  Animadvertor  would 
believe  me  herein. 

Dr.  Hbtlin. — What  influence  these  arguments  might  have  on  the 
House  of  Peers,  when  reported  by  the  bishop  of  Lincoln,  I  am  not  able 
to  affirm.  But  so  far  I  concur  with  our  author, ''  that  they  lost  neither 
life  nor  lustre,"  as  they  came  from  his  mouth,  who  (as  our  author  says) 
*^  was  a  back-friend  to  the  Canons,  because  made  during  his  absence 
and  durance  in  the  Tower."  (Ch.  Hist.  voL  iii.  p.  424.)  A  piece  of 
ingenuity  which  I  did  not  look  for. 

Fuller. — ^There  are  some  pens  that  if  a  man  do  look  for  inge- 
nuity from  them,  he  may  hoi  for  it. 

288,  289.  Dr.  Heylix. — ^The  power  of  Convocation  being  thus 
shaken  and  endangered,  that  of  the  High-Commission  and  the  Bishops' 
Courts  was  not  like  to  hold ;  the  one  being  taken  away  by  Act  of 
Parliament,  and  the  other  much  weakened  in  th^  co-ercive  power 
thereof,  by  a  clause  in  that  Act ;  of  which  our  author  tells  iis,  that 

"  Mr.  Pym  triumphed  at  this  success,  crying  out.  Digitus  Deiy  'If 
is  the  finger  of  Gk)d,  that  the  bishops  should  so  supinely  suffer  them- 
selves '  to  be  surprised  in  their  power."  (Cfi.  Hist.  vpl.  iil  p.  425.) 
And  well  might   Mr.  Pym  triumph,  as  having  gained  the  point  he 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.      611 

nimed  at,  in  fiubr^tiiig  the  <id-erdre  poiter,  and  consequently  the 
whole  eitercise  of  eeclesiastical  jurisdiction.  But  he  had  no  f  ea«on  to 
impnte'  it  to  ''  the  finger  of  God/'  or  to  the  carelesi^ess  of  the  bii^hops 
in  tiiuffering  themselves  td  he  so  snpinety  stirprised.  For,  First,  the 
hishops  tow  tdo  plwnly,  that  thoie  general  itords,  by  which  they  were 
disabled  froAi  inflicting  any  pain  or  penalty,  woald  be  extended  to 
suspension,  excommunication,  and  other  ecclesiastical  censures.  But^ 
Secondly,  they  saw  withal  that  the  stream  was  too  strong  for  them  to 
strire  against,  most  of  the  Lords  being  wrought  on  by  the  popular 
party  in  the  House  of  Commons  to  pass  the  Bill.  Thirdly.  They  were 
not  without  hope,  that,  when  the  Scots'  army  was  disbanded,  and 
that  nation  satisfied  by  the  king's  condescensions  to  them,  there  might 
be  such  an  explication  made  of  those  general  words,  as  to  restrain 
them  unto  temporal  pains  and  civil  penalties,  by  which  the  censures 
of  the  church  might  remain  as  formerly.  And,  Fourthly,  in  order 
thereunto  they  had  procured  a  Proviso  to  be  entered  in  the  House  of 
Peers,  "  That  the  general  words  in  this  Bill  should  extend  only  to  the 
High-Commission  Court,  and  not  reach  other  ecclesiastical  jurisdic- 
tions;" for  which  consult  our  author,  Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  425, 
Having  thus  passed  over  such  matters  as  concern  the  church,  we  will 
now  look  upon  some  few  things  which  relate  to  the  Parliament.     And 

the  fif  St  is  that 

Fuller. — I  6aid  not,  Mt.  Pym  "had  just  cause  to  triumph  ;''  ' 
yea,  somewhat  followeth  in  my  History  to  the  contrary,  showing  he 
had  no  reason  to  rejoice,  and  condemn  the  bishops  herein,  seeing 
not  mpinenessy  but  prudential  condescension,  for  the  time,  made 
them  rather  mfferers  than  sv/rprised  herein.  Only  I  say,  there  are 
many  alive,  who  heard  him  sing  aloud  this  his  Victoria^  and  the 
echo  thereof  it  still  soundeth  in  their  ears. 

The  Animadvertor  himself  sometimes  triumpheth  over  my  mis- 
takes, and  carrieth  me  aWay  in  his  own  conceit ;  whilst  still  I  am 
sensible  of  my  own  liberty,  that  I  am  in  a  free  condition. 

290.  Dr.  Hetun. — "  Dr.  Pocklington  and  Dr.  Bray  were  the  two 
first  that  felt  the  displeasures  of  it ;  the  former  for  preaching  and 
printing — the  latter  for  licensing^— two  books,  one  called  '  Sunday  n<$ 
Sabbath,'  the  other  « the  Christian  Altar.' "  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  412.) 
No  other  way  to  pacify  the  high  displeasures  of  the  bishop  of  Lincoln, 
hut  by  such  a  sacrifice ;  who  therefore  is  intrusted  to  gather  such  pro- 
positions out  of  those  two  books  as  were  to  be  recanted  by  the  one, 
and  for  which  the  other  was  to  be  deprived  of  all  his  preferments.  And 
in  this  the  bishop  served  his  own  turn,  and  the  people's  too.  His  own 
turn  first,  in  the  great  controversy  of  the  altar,  in  which  he  was  so 
great  a  stickler,  and  in  which  Pocklington  wa^  thought  to  have  pro- 
voked him  to  take  that  revenge.  The  peoples;  turn  he  served  next,  in 
*he  condemning  and  recanting  of  some  points  about  the  sabbath ; 
though  therein  he  ran  cross  to  his  former  practice ;  who  had  been,  not 

2    R     ?  Digitized  by  LiOOgle 


612  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  I^TNOCENCB.  PART  III. 

long  liiioey  so  far  from  those  Sabbatarian  Tigoms,  (wbicK  now  k 
would  &in  be  thought  to  countenance,)  that  he  caused  a  comedy  to  be 
acted  before  him  at  his  house  at  Bugden,  not  only  on  a  Sunday  in  the 
afternoon,  but  upon  such  a  Sunday  also  on  which  he  had  publiclj 
giren  sacred  orders  both  to  priests  and  deacons.  And  to  this  comedy 
he  inrited  the  earl  of  Manchester,  and  diyers  of  the  neighboaiing 
gcntoy. 

Fuller. — I  was  neither  an  actor  in,  nor  a  spectator  of,  that 
comedy.  "  The  better  day,  the  worse  deed."  I  recount  it 
amongst  none  of  those  his  good  works  wherewith  he  abounded. 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^Though,  on  this  turning  of  the  tide,  he  did  not  only 
cause  these  Doctors  to  be  condemned  for  some  opinions  which  for- 
merly himself  allowed  o^  but  moved,  at  the  Assembly  in  Jerusalem- 
Chamber,  that  all  books  shduld  be  publicly  burnt,  which  had  disputed 
the  morality  of  the  Lord's-day  sabbath.  Quo  ieneam  nodb,  '^c,  as  the 
poet  hath  it. 

Fuller. — I  have  been  credibly  informed,  that  when,  in  Jenisa- 
lem-Cbamber,  Mr.  Stephen  Marshall  urged  most  vehemently  for 
severe  punishment  on  the  authors  of  those  books ;  bishop  Wil- 
liams fell  foul  on  the  books,  moving  they  might  be  burned,  that 
their  authors  might  the  better  escape.  Let  every  one  betine  *  his 
share  herein. 

Dr.  Heylin. — But,  whereas  our  author  tells  us  in  the  following 
words,  that  "  soon  after  both  the  Doctors  deceased  for  grief,"  I  dare 
with  some  confidence  tell  him,  there  was  no  such  matter ;  Dr.  Pock- 
lington  living  about  two  years,  and  Dr.  Bray  above  four  years  after, 
with  as  great  cheerfulness  and  courage  as  ever  formerly.  How 
he  hath  dealt  with  Dr.  Cosin,  we  shall  see  more  at  large  hereafter  in 
a  place  by  itself;  the  discourse  thereof  being  too  long  and  too  full  of 
particulars,  to  come  within  the  compass  of  an  Animadyersion.f  In 
the  mean  time,  proceed  we  unto  bishop  Wren,  of  whom  thus  as 
followeth:— 

Fuller. — I  went  to  Peterborough  on  purpose,  in  quest  after 
information,  and  saw  Dr.  Pocklington's  grave  ;  on  the  same  token, 
it  was  in  the  churchyard,  just  in  the  place  where  so  many  Saxons 
were  murdered  and  martyred  by  the  Danes :  and  there  I  heard, 
that  he  enjoyed  not  himself  after  his  censure.      Of  Dr.   Bray 


*  This  obsolete  word,  of  Chaucer's  age,  is  a  deri^^tive  from  tine  or  tind,  from  \rluch 
comes  our  noui  tinder  ;  and  both  the  piimitiTe  verb  and  its  compouids  signify  to  bwm, 
to  kifuUe,  8m;.  How  appropriately  it  was  employed  in  this  sense  by  Fuller,  the  context 
■win  show — Edit.  f  Dr.  Cosin's  very  able  defence  of  himself  is  now  given 

entire,  from  Heylin's  Eramen,  at  the  close  of  this  volume,  with  some  additional 
iufoiinaUon Edit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSrONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.    61J^ 

f  though  I  could)  I  say  nothing  ;  and  shall  return  an  answer  to  Dr. 
Cosin  at  the  end  of  this  book.     Our  author  proceeds :— ^ 

291.  Dr.  Heylin. — "  A  Bill  was  sent  up  by  the  Commons  against 
Matthew  Wren,  bishop  of  Ely,  containing  twenty-five  Articles,"  &c. 
(Oh.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  427.)  That  such  a  Bill  was  sent  up  from  the  House 
of  Commons,  is  undoubtedly  true.  Aiid  no  less  true  it  is,  that  many 
impeachments  of  like  nature  were  hammered,  at  and  about  the  same 
time,  against  many  other  clergymen  of  good  note,  though  inferior 
order ;  the  Articles  whereof  were  printed  and  exposed  to  open  sale,  to 
their  great  disparagement.  And  therefore  I  would  fain  know  the 
reason  why  this  man  should  be  singled  out  amongst  all  the  rest  to 
stand  impeached  upon  record  in  our  author's  History ;  especially  con- 
sidering that  there  was  nothing  done  by  the  Lords  in  pursuance  of  it, 
the  impeachment  dying,  in  a  manner,  as  soon  as  bom.  Was  it  because 
lie  was  more  criminal  than  the  others  were,  or  that  the  charge  was 
better  proved,  or  for  what  caiise  els^  ? 

Fuller. — I  will  give  the  reader  a  true  and  fair  account  thereof. 
Many  clergymen  (as  the  Animadvertor  observeth)  being  then  arti- 
cled, against,  I  thought,  to  insert  all  would  clog  my  book  with  need- 
less numbers,  as  to  omit  all  would  be  interpreted  partiality  and 
unfaithfulness  in  ^n  Historian.  I  chose  therefore  the  middle  (as  the 
safest)  way,  to  instance  in  four ;  two  Doctors,  Bray  and  Pockling- 
ton  ;  one  Dean,  John  Cosin ;  and  one  Bishop,  Matthew  Wren ; 
conceiving  these  a  sufficient  representation  of  all  the  rest.  Where- 
fore I  cannot  see  how  the  Animadvertor  can  properly  say,  that 
bishop  Wren  was  by  me  "  singled  out,''  except  a  quaternion  be  a 
single  man.  It  was  not  because  his  charge  was  better  (which  for 
aught  I  know  was  not  at  all)  proved,  but  for  these  reasons  : — 

1.  He  was  one  of  the  first  in  time,  clamoured  against. 

2.  He  was  one  of  the  highest  in  dignity,  clamoured  against. 

8.  He  was  one  that  hath  longest  been  a  sufferer  for  his  un-prose- 
CQted  accusation. 

And  here,  had  the  Animadvertor  been  pleased  as  well  to  take 
notice  of  flowers  and  herbs  in  my  Church-History,  as  what  he 
counteth  weeds  therein,  he  might  have  inserted  (yea,  with  justice 
could  not  have  omitted)  this  following  passage  :  "  Bishop  Wren's 
long  imprisonment  (being  never  brought-in  to  a  public  answer) 
hath  converted  many  of  his  adversaries  into  a  more  charitable 
opinion  of  him."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  444.) 

Dr.  HEYLiN.-r-Well,  since  our  author  will  not,  I  will  tell  you,  why 
(he  singled  out  Matthew  Wren  amongst  all  the  rest)  :  and  I  will  tell 
it  in  the  words  of  king  James,  in  the  Conference*  at  Hampton-Court, 
upon  occasion  of  a  needless  exception  taken  by  Dr.  Reynolds  at  a 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


614  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCfiNCE.  PART  III. 

p«Mi«B  in  Eodedattieas:  ''What,  trow  ye,"  said  tbe  kis^  ^makes 
these  men  io  angiy  with  Eoclesiaaticas  ?  Bj  my  sal,  I  think  he  wa« 
a  hishop,  or  else  they  would  nerer  use  him  so."  And  so  much  fw 
that 

FvLLER.-'— Whether  EcdesiaBticiis  was  a  bishop  or  no,  I  biov 
not ;  this  I  knpw,  that  Ecclesiastes  was  a  preacher.  The  words  of 
kiDg9  «re  most  proper  for  the  mouths  of  kings ;  apd  sovereigns  ipaj 
wpetik  their  pleasure  to  their  subjects,  which  fit  ncMt  fellow-^subjecU 
<Hie  to  another.    And  so  much  for  that. 

My  extraction— who  was  Prebendariui  Prebendarides,  and  rela- 
tion (as  the  Animadvertor  knows)  to  two  (no  mean)  bishops,  mj 
uncles — may  clear  me  from  any  episcopal  an^pathy.  I  honour  any 
who  is  a  bishop  ;  both  honour  and  love  him  who  is  a  religious  and 
learned  bishop.     Our  author  proceeds : — 

292.  Dr.  Heylin.-— **  About  this  time  was  the  first  motion  of  a 
new  Protestation,  to  be  taken  all  over  England ;  which,  some  months 
after,  was  genendly  performed."  (Ch.  Hist  toL  iii.  p.  414.)  What 
time  this  was,  our  author  tells  us  in  the  margin,  pointing  to  Feb.  4th ; 
about  which  time  there  was  no  mention  of  the  Protestati<m,  nor 
occasion  for  it.  The  first  mention  which  was  made  of  the  Protest- 
ation was  upon  Monday,  May  3d ;  on  which  day  it  was  mentioned, 
firamed,  and  taken  by  all  the  members  of  the  House  of  Commons, 
excepting  the  lord  George  Digby,  (now  eadi  of  Bristol,)  and  an  uncl^ 
of  his. 

Fuller.— I  appeal  to  the  surviving  members  of  the  House  of 
Commons,  (the  most  competent  judges  in  this  point,)  whether 
such  a  Protestation  was  not  hammered  (though  not  perfected) 
about  the  date  by  me  assigned. 

Acts  of  State  neyer  ride  post ;  and  it  seems  to  me  improbable, 
that  the  Protestation,  by  such  unused  appropeiation,  to  be  men- 
tioned, f^med,  and  taken,  all  in  one  day.  But  herein  I  submit  to 
those  who  best  know  it. 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^The  occasion  of  it  was  a  speech  made  by  the  king, 
in  the  House  of  Peers,  in  favour  of  the  earl  of  Strafford,  upon  the 
Saturday  before;  which  moved  them  to  unite  themselves  by  this 
Protestation,  ^^  for  bringing  to  condign  punishment  all  such  as  shall, 
either  by  force,  practice,  plots,  counsels,  conspiracies,  or  otherwise,  do 
any  thing  to  the  contrary  of  any  thing  in  the  same  Protestation  con- 
tained." Which  Protestation,  being  carried  into  the  House  of  Peers, 
was,  after  some  few  days,  generally  taken  by  that  House  also.  But 
the  prevalent  party  in  the  House  of  Commons,  having  further  aims 
than  such  as  our  author  pleaseth  to  take  notice  of,  first  caused  it  to  be 
printed  by  an  Order  of  May  5th,  that  they  might  be  sent  down  to 
J'  the  Sheriffs  and  Justices  6f  Peace  in  the  several  shires;"  to  whom 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANlMADV£ltSIONS  ON  THB  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  X.       615 

they  intimated,  ^*  that,  as  they  justified  the  taking  of  it  in  themselTea, 
BO  they  could  not  but  approre  it  in  all  such  as  should  take  it"  But 
finding  tliat  this  did  not  much  edify  with  the  country  people,  they 
desired  the  Iiords  to  concur  Yrith  them  in  imposing  the  same.  Failing 
thereof,  by  an  Qrdeic  of  their  own  House  only,  July  30th,  it,  was 
dedared*  '^  that  the  Protestation  made  by  th^n  was  fit  to  be  taken  by 
eyerj  person  that  was  well-affected  in  religion,  and  to  the  good  of  the 
consmon wealth ;  and,  therefore,  what  person  soerer  did  not  take  the 
same  was  unfijt  to  bear  ofiice  in  the  church  or  Qomqioiiwealth/' 
Which  ]^otwithstanding,  many  reused  to  take  it,  as  our  author  telleth 
us,  not  knowing  but  that  some  sinister  use  might  be  made  thereof;  as 
afterward  appeared,  by  those  Pikes  and  Protestations  which  conducted 
some  of  the  five  members  to  the  House  of  Commons. 

Fui.L.£R. — The  Animadvertor  and  the  author  have  in  this  para* 
graph  loyingly  shaken  hands  together,  I  fear,  for  meeting  and 
parting  at  once ;  and  that  it  will  not  be  long  before  we  disjoin 
them  again*     Our  author  proceeds  :— 

293.  Dr.  He7Lin. — ^'  About  ibis  time  came  fort}i  the  hrd  Brooke's 
book  against  bishops,  accusing  them,  in  respect  of  their  parentage,  to 
be  iie  Jasce  popuU^  'of  the  dreg?  of  the  people;'  and,  in  respect 
of  their  studies,  no  way  fit  for  government,  or  to  be  barons  in  < 
Parliament."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  428.)  A  passage  misbecoming  no 
mpn's  pen  so  mi^ch  as  his  that  wnt  it ;  whose  father  neither  was  of  a 
better  extraction  than  some,  nor  better  left,  as  in  the  way  of  his 
subsistence,  than  any  of  the  bishops  (whom  he  thus  upbraideth)  had 
been  left  by  their  fathers. 

Fuller. — The  Animadvertor  will,  I  hope,  acknowledge  me  a 
fair  and  ingenuous  adversary,  on  a  token  best  known  to  us  alone. 
However,  Christianity  obligeth  me  to  take  no  unworthy  advantage 
of  my  brother  in  the  same  profession. 

Dr.  Hbylin. — ^From  the  first  part  of  which  calumny,  the  bishops 
freed  themselves  well  enough,  as  appears  by  our  author.  And  from 
the  second,  since  they  were  too  modest  to  speak  in  their  own  com- 
mendations, our  author  might  have  freed  them,  with  one  of  the  old 
tales  which  are  in  his  budget.  And  the  tale  is  of  a  nobleman  in  king 
Harry  the  eighth's  time,  who  told  Mr.  Pace,  one  of  the  king's  secre- 
taries, in  contempt  of  learning,  "that  it  was  enough  for  noblemen's 
sons  to  wind  ^eir  horn,  and  carry  their  hawk  Mr;  and  to  leave 
study  and  learning  to  the  children  of  mean  men."  To  whom  the 
aforesaid  Mr.  Pace  replied,  "  Then  you  and  other  noblemen  must  be 
content  that  your  children  may  wind  their  horns,  and  keep  their 
hawks,  while  the  children  of  mean  men  do  manage  matters  of 
estate.***     And  certainly  there    can    be  no  reason  why  men  that 

•  Canden^s  "  Remains." 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


016  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCBNCfi.  PABT  III. 

hare  been  reised  in  books,  studied  in  hlstcvies,  and  thereby  made 
acquainted  with  the  chief  occnnrences  of  most  states  and  kingdoms, 
should  not  be  thought  as  fit  to  manage  the  affidrs  of  state,  as  those 
who  spend  their  time  in  hawking  and  hunting,  if  not  upon  some  woise 
employments.  For,  that  a  superinduction  of  holy  orders  should  pioT« 
a  supersedeas  to  all  ciTil  prudence,  is  such  a  wild,  extraTagant  £mcj 
as  no  man  of  judgment  can  allow  of. 

Fuller. — ^I  never  said  it,  nor  thought  it ;  I  will  never  write  a 
syllable  against  mine  own  vocation.  Th^  clergy,  I  am  sure,  cannot 
be  impaired,  and  lay-noblemen,  I  hope,  may  be  improved,  (to 
make  them  more  industrious  to  enable  themselves,)  by  the  Ani- 
madvertor's  story,  well  reported,  and  better  urged  and  applied, 
Our  author  proceeds  ; — 

294.  Dr.  Heylin. — "  The  next  day  the  twelve  subscribers  were 
TOted  to  be  committed  to  the  Tower ;  save  that  bishop  Morton,  of 
Durham,  and  Hall,  of  Norwich,  foimd  some  favour."-  (Ch.  Hist, 
vol.  iii.  p.  434.)  Our  author  speaks  this  of  those  twelve  biidiops  who 
had  subscribed  a  Protestation  for  preserving  their  rights  and  votes  in 
the  House  of  Peers,  during  the  iime  of  their  involuntary  absence,  to 
which  they  were  compelled  by  threats,  menaces,  and  some  open  acts 
of  violence  committed  on  them.  But  in  the  name  of  one  of  the 
bishops,  who  found  the  favour  of  not  being  sent  unto  the  Tower,  he  is 
much  mistaken ;  it  not  being  Dr.  Hall,  bishop  of  Norwich,  but  Dr. 
Wright,  bishop  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield,  who  found  that  favour  at 
their  hands. 

Fuller. — Not  ^^much^  who  (if  at  all)  could  not  he  less  mis- 
taken. I  shall  provide,  God  willing,  the  next  edition  shall  be 
reformed  herein  ;  and  mean  time  desire  the  owner  of  my  former,  to 
rectify  it  with  their  pen  ;  who  immediately  can  remove  Coventry 
and  Lichfield  (though  eighty  miles'  distance)  to  Norwich;  and 
thereby  he  will  pauch .  Wright  *  me^  and  nothing  at  all  wrong 
hiniself. 

295.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^The  like  misnomer  I  find  after,  where  he 
speaks  of  "William  earl  of  Bath;"  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  440;)  the 
earl  of  Bath  of  whom  he  speaks  being  named  Henry,  and  not  William, 
Unless  he  changed  his  name  when  he  succeeded  in  that  earldom ;  as  I 
think  he  did  not,  and  I  am  sure  our  a\jthor  will  not  say  he  did. 

Fuller. — That  noble  earl,  (questionable  whether  of  more  hon- 
our or  learning,)  so  cordial  to  the  cause-  of  the  church,  (far  from 
all  "  new-dipt  sectaries,")  never  changed  his  name,  till  he  changed 
his  life;  and  then  of  a  militant  became  a  triumphant  saint.  The 
yejider  will   believe  roe  knowing  enough   in   his  Christian  name, 

•  AUuding  to  the  prthograplij  of  bishop  Wright. — Edit. 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ IC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.      617 

'whose  relict  (since  countess  of  Middlesex)  was  my  late  parishioner 
at  Waltham,  where  I  have  seen  his  name  above  a  thousand  times, 
prefixed  with  his  own  hand-writing,  before  the  several  books  in  the 
numerous  and  choice  library  at  Copt-hall.  It  was  indeed  a  mere 
mistake  of  the  printer. 


3.  Dr.  HEYLm.i — As  much  he  is  mistaken  also  in  point  of  timef, 
** leaving  the  bishops  in  prison  for  eighteen  weeks;"  whereas  they 
were  scarce  detained  there  for  half  that  time.  For,  being  committed  to 
the  Tower  in  the  end  of  December,  they  were  released  by  an  Order 
of  the  House  of  Peers  on  the  15th  of  February,  being  the  next  day 
after  the  Bill  for  taldne  away  their  votes  had  passed^  Parliament. 
But  then  the  Commons,  looking  on  them  as  divested  of  their  right 
of  peerage,  and  consequently  (as  they  thought)  in  the  same  rank  with 
themselves,  returned  them  to  the  Tower  again :  and,  having  kept  them 
there  some  few  weeks,  (long  enough  to  declare  their  power,)  discharged 
them  upon  bail,  and  so  sent  them  home* 

Fuller. — A  great  cry  and  a  little  wool.  1.  From  the  end  of 
December  to  the  16th  of  February  was  seven  weeks.  2.  They 
continued  afterwards  there  some  few  weeks,  as  the  Animadvertor 
confesseth.  Weeks  imply  two  at  the  least ;  some  few,  denote  four 
or  five  in  proper  sense.  Lastly.  Some  of  the  bishops  staid  there 
longer  than  others,  even  for  lack  of  money  to  pay  their  fees.  If  the 
reader  be  pleased  to  take  all  these  up,  he  will  find  them  fall  little 
short  Qf  eighteen  weeks.  And  let  not  the  Animadvertor  wilfully 
persist  in  an  error,  who  may  know  firom  bishop  Wren,  that  none  of 
them  were  released  before  the  6th  of  May,  Our  author  proceed- 
eth  :— 

297.  Dr.  Heylin. — "About  this  time  the  word  'Malignant'  was 
first  bom  (as  to  common  use)  in  England ;  and  fixed  as  a  note  of  dis- 
grace on  those  of  the  king's  party:  and,  because  one  had  as  good  be 
dumb  as  not  speak  with  the  vulgar,  possibly  in  that  sense  it  may  occur 
in  our  ensuing  History."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  443.)  Nothing  more 
possible  than  that  our  author  should  make  use  of  any  word  of  disgrace 
with  which  the  king's  party  was  reproached. 

Fuller. — The  Animadvertor,  in  thia  point,  proves  himself  a 
Malignant  indeed,  taxing  me  with  so  odious  and  untrue  an  asper- 
sion. Nothing  more  improbable,  than  that  my  hand  should  hurt 
that  cause  which  my  heart  did  honour- in  the  writing  of  my  book. 
Though  this  passage  be  by  me  premised  by  way  of  prevention,  if 
the  word  "Malignant^'  casually  fell  from  my  pen;  yet  such  was 
vay  cautiousness,  that  very  rarely,  if  at  all,  it  is  used  as  mine  own 
word.  Besides,  the  ingenuous  reader  knoweth,  that  the  writers  of 
civil  dissensions  are  sometimes  necessitated,  for  differencing  of  par- 
ses, to  use  those  terms  they  do  not  approve. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


618  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  IIL 

Db.  HETijN.-»>A]id  if  he  calls  them  fonnerlj  bj  die,  name  of 
^  Bojalists"  and  ^  Higk  Boyalistf,"  as  he  sometimes  doth ;  it  was  not 
because  he  thovght  them  worthj  of  no  woise  a  titlci  bat  because  the 
name  of  ^*  Malignant "  had  not  then  been  bom. 

Fuller. — Not  so.  For  then,  since  the  name  "Malignant'' 
was  born,  I  would  have  used  it  on  them  ;  which  I  do  not.  Those 
woids  of  the  Animadvertor,  "  worthy  oi  no  w<»se  a  titl^e,^  intimate 
as  if  Royalist  and  High-Royalftst  were  bad  titles ;  whidi,  if  not 
bonouiable,  must  be  initfensife.  If  ^rojal^  (the  primitiTe)  be 
good,  (a  ^*  royal  law,^  Jamea  ii.  8,  *^a  rofol  prierthood,'*'  1  Peter 
ii.  9,)  Sayalitt  (the  derivative)  cannot  be  bad,  mudi  less  M^ 
Bayalittj  except  height  makes  that  bad  Q)eing  added  thereunto) 
which  was  good  before. 

Dr.  HsTLiN.'^He  cannot  choose  but  know,  that  the  nBxn^  of 
^^Boundhead"  was  bom  at  the  same  time  also;  and  that  it  was  as 
conunon  in  the  king^s  party  to  call  the  Parliamentarians  by  the  name 
of  ^  Roundheads,"  as  it  was  with  those  of  the  Parliament  party  to  call 
the  king's  adherents  by  the  name  of  ^^  Malignants."  And  yet  I  dare 
confidently  say,  that  the  word  '*  Roundhead,"  as  it  was  fixed  as  a  note 
of  disgrace  on  the  Parliament  party,  doth  not  occur,  on  any  occasion 
whatsoever,  in  our  author  s  History.  But  "  kissing  goes  by  favour,"  as 
the  saying  is ;  and  therefore  let  him  fiiivour  whom  he  pleases,  and  kiss 
where  he  favoureth. 

FuLLKR. — I  confess  the  name  "Roundhead^  at  the  same  time 
trundled  about  in  the  mouths  of  many  men.  But  I  conceived  it 
beneath  an  Historian  to  make  use  thereof;  because  his  majesty,  in 
all  his  proclamations,  declarations,  and  other  Acts  of  State,  never 
JDade  mention  thereof,  whilst  ^^  Malignant^'  was  often  used  in  Acts 
of  Parliament. 

But  if  my  bare  mention  (not  using)  of  ^^  Malignant  ^  be  so  dis- 
tasteful, I  will  cut  down  all  the  ill  wood  therein  to  the  last  sprig, 
quench  all  the  ill  fire  therein  to  the  last  spark ;  I  mean,  God 
willing,  totally  delete  that  paragraph  in  the  next  edition.  Our 
author  proceeds  :— 

298.  Dr.  Heyhn. — ^**By  this  time  ten  of  the  eleven  bishops, 
formerly  subscribing  their  Protestation  to  the  Parliament,  were,  after 
somey  months'  durance,  (upon  good  bail  given,)  released,"  &c.  (Ch. 
Hist.  vol.  iii.  pp.  443,  444.)  Of  the  releasing  of  Aese  bishops  we 
have  spoken  already.  We  are  how  only  to  observe  such  mistakes  and 
errors  as  relate  unto  it.  And,  First,  they  were  not  released  at  or  about 
the  time  which  our  author  speaks  of;  that  is  to  say,  after  such  time  as 
the  word."  plunder"  had  begun  to  be  used  amongst  us.  Plimder,  both 
name  and  thing,  was  unknown  in  England,  till  the  beginning  of  tke 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THK  CBURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.      619 

war ;  and  the  war  began  not  till  Sq^ember,  anno  164S,  whieb  wi« 
some  months  after  the  releasing  of  the  bishops. 

FuLT.£B. — I  hope  now  the  Animadvertor  is  drawing  to  a  condor 
sion  ;  because  an  ague  commonly  is  leaving  one,  vhen  beginning  to 
double  its  fits.  Formerly  he  found  &ult  but  once  in  four  pages ; 
now  four  times  in  one  paragraph. 

Here  is  nothing  mistimed  in  this  point;  the  name  <* plunder *^ 
beginning  in  England  some  months— the  practice  thereof  some 
weeks — ^before  our  war.  Indeed,  commiesioned  plunder  begun  with 
the  war,  but  uncommissioned  plunder  was  before  it ;  committed  by 
those  whose  activity  only  did  authorize  (or  rather  empower)  them 
to  take  away  the  goods  of  others.  Such  were  they  that  plundered 
(for  I  am  sure  they  will  not  say,  they  robbed)  the  house  of  the 
countess  Rivers  at  Long-Melford  in  Suffolk,  before  the  University 
of  Cambridge  sent  their  plate  to  the  king  to  Yoik,  and  conse* 
quently  before  the  war. 

299.  Dr.  Hbylin. — Secondly.  He  telleth  us,  that  ten  of  the  deven 
which  had  subscribed  were  released ;  whereas,  thare  were  twelve  which 
had  subscribed,  as  appears,  Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  433 ;  whereof  ten  were 
sent  unto  the  Tower,  and  the  other  two  committed  to  the  custody  of 
the  Black  Bod*  (Idem*  p.  434.)  And  if  ten  only  were  released,  the 
other  two  must  be  kept  in  custody  for  a  longer  time :  whereas  we  find 
the  bishop  of  Norwich  at  home  in  his  ^ocess,  and  the  bishop  of 
Durham  at  liberty  in  London ;  they  being  the  two  whom  he  makes  so 
far  fiiYoured  by  the  Parliament,  as  they  scaped  the  Tower. 

FuLLEE.r— The  small  numeral  fault  shall  be  amended,  to  prevent 
exceptions,  in  my  next  edition. 

300.  Dr.  Heylin.— Thirdly.  He  telleth  us,  that,  when  all  others 
were  released,  "  bishop  Wren  was  still  detained  in  the  Tower ;  **  which 
is  nothing  so.  That  bishop  was  released  upon  bail,  when  the  other 
were ;  returned  unto  his  diocess,  as  the  others  did ;  and  there  conti- 
nued for  a  time ;  when  of  a  sudden  he  was  snatched  from  his  house 
at  Downham,  in  the  Isle  of  Ely,  carried  to  the  Tower,  and  there 
imprisoned ;  never  being  brought  unto  a  hearing,  nor  any  cause  shown 
for  his  imprisonment  to  this  very  day. 

Puller.— Would  it  were  nothing  so,  indeed  !  8i  mea  cum 
testris  "caluissent  Tota.  *'  If  the  Animadvertor's  and  author's  joint 
desires  might  have  taken  effect,^'  there  had  been  no  difference  about 
this  passage  in  my  book. 

Tuque  damo  proprid,  no9  (te,  Prasulj)  potefemur, 

^*  Thou  hadst  enjoyed  thy  house  ;  and  we, 
Prelate,  had  enjoyed  Aee." 

But,  alas  !  it  is  so.     He  is  still,  and  still,  (when  all  other  bishops 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ  l€ 


620  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.       PART  III. 

are  released,)  detained  in  the  Tower ;  where,  I  believe,  he  maketh 
"  God's  service  his  perfect  freedom^  My  words,  as  relating  to  the 
time  when  I  wrote  them,  contain  too  much  sorrowful  truth  therein. 

30L  Dr.  Hetlin. — ^Fourthly.  Archbishop  Williams,  after  his 
restoring  unto  liberty,  went  not  ^^into  the  king's  quarters,"  as  our 
author  saith,  but  unto  one  of  his  own  houses  in  Yorkshire  ;  where  he 
continued  till  the  year  1643,  and  then  came  to  Oxford.  Not  that  h^ 
found  the  north  too  cold  for  him,  or  the  war  too  hot ;  but  to  solicit  for 
renewing  of  his  Commendam  in  the  deanery  of  Westminster;  the 
time  for  which  he  was  to  hold  it  drawing  towards  an  end. 

Fuller. — Nothing  false  or  faulty.  The  archbishop  of  York 
stayed  some  weeks  after  his  enlargement  at  Westminster ;  thence 
he  went  privately  to  the  house  of  sir  Thomas  Hedley,  in  Hun- 
tingdonshire ;  and  thence  to  his  palace  at  Cawood,  nigh  York^ 
where  he  gave  the  king  a  magnificent  entertainment. 

King  James  settled  the  deanery  of  Westminster  under  the 
Great  Seal  on  Dr.  Williams,  so  long  as  he  should  continue  bishop 
of  Lincoln.  Jlinc  iUce  lacrimcBy  "  hence  the  great  heaving  and 
buffing  at  him,^'  because  he  would  not  resign  it,  which  was  so  signal 
a  monument  of  his  master's  favour  unto  him. 

Being  archbishop  of  York,  king  Charles  confirmed  his  deanery 
unto  him  for  three  years,  in  lieu  of  the  profits  of  his  archbishopric, 
which  the  king  had  taken,  sede  vacante.  So  that  it  is  probable 
enough,  the  renewing  that  term  might  be  a  joint  motive  of  his  going 
to  Oxford. 

But  I  see  nothing  which  I  have  written  can  be  cavilled  at,  except 
because  I  call  Yorkshire  "  the  king'^s  quarters^^"*  which  as  yet  was 
the  king''s  whoUy  when  the  archbishop  first  came  thither,  as  being  a 
little  before  the  war  began  ;  though,  few  weeks  after,  it  became  the 
king''s  quarters.  Such  a  prolepsis  is  familiar  with  the  best  historians; 
and,  in  eflPect,  is  little  more  than  when  the  Animadvertdr  calletli 
the  "  Gag  '^  and  Appdlo  CcBsarem,  the  books  of  bishop  Mountagu ; 
who,  when  they  were  written  by  him,  was  no  (though  soon  after  a) 
bishop.*     Our  author  proceeds : — 

302.  Dr.  Heylin. — "  Some  of  the  aged  bishops  had  their  tongues 
so  used  to  the  language  of  a  third  Estate^  that  more  than  once  thej 
ran  on  that  (reputed)  rock  in  their  speeches,  for  which  they  were 
publicly  shent,  and  enjoined  an  acknowledgment  of  their  mistake/' 
(Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  445.)  By  whom  they  Were  so  "publicly 
shent,"  and  who  they  were  that  so  ingenuously  ''acknowledged 
their  mistake,"  as  my  author  telleth  us  not,  so  neither  can  I  say  whether 
it  be  true  or  false. 

•  '*  Animadversions,"  page  563. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THB  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.     621 

FcLLEtt. — I  tell  you  again,  It  is  true.  The  earl  of  Essex  and 
the  lord  Say  were  two  of  the  lords,  (though  this  be  more  than 
I  need  discover,)  who  checked  them.  And  of  two  of  those  bishaps, 
Dr.  Hall,  late  bishop  of  Norwich,  is  gone  to  God ;  and* the  other 
is  still  alive. 

Dr.  Hetlin.— ^But  I  must  needs. say,  that  there  was  small  ingenuity^ 
in  acknowledging  a  mistake  in  that  wherein  they  had  not  been  mis-, 
taken  ;  or  by  endeavouring  to  avoid  a  reputed  rock,  to  run  ihemselves^ 
on  a  certain  rock,  even  the  rock  of  scandal. 

Fuller. — Their  brief  and  general  acknowledgment,  "that  they 
were  sorry  that  they  had  spoken  in  this  point  what  had  incurred  the 
displeasure  of  the  temporal  lords,''  was  no  trespass  on  their  own 
ingenuity,  nor  had  shadow  of  scandal  to  others  therein. 

I  confess,  men  must  not  bear  false  witness,  either  against  them- 
selves or  others ;  nor  may  they  betray  their  right,  especially  when 
they  have  not  only  a  personal  concernment  therein,  but  also  are  in 
some  sort  feoj^ees  intrust  for  posterity.  However,  when  a  predomi- 
nant power  plainly  \ppears  which  will  certainly  over-rule  their 
cause  against  them,  without  scandal  they  may  (not  to  say,  in 
Christian  prudence  they  ought  to)  wave  the  vindication  ^of  their  pri- 
vileges for  the  present ;  waiting,  wishing,  and  praying,  for  more 
moderate  and  equal  times,  wherein  they  may  assert  their  right  with: 
more  advantage  to  their  cause,  and  less  danger  to  their  persons. 

Dr.  Heylin. — For  that  the  English  bishops  had  their  vote  in  Par- 
liament as  ^^  a  third  Estate,'' and  not  in  the  capacity  of  temporal  barons, 
will  evidently  appear  by  these  reasons  following: — ^For,   First,   the 
clergy  in  all  other  Christian  kingdoms  of  these  north-west  parts  make 
the  third  Estate  ;  that  is  to  say,  in  the  German  empire,  as  appears  by 
Thuanus  the  historian,  lib.  ii.     In  France,  as  is  affirmed  by  Paulus 
-Emilius,  lib.  ix.     In  Spain,  as  testifieth  Bodinus  in  his  De  Repub. 
lib.  iii.     For  which  consult  also  "  the  General  History  of  Spain,"  as 
in  point  of  practice,  lib.   ix. — ^xi.  xiv.     In  Hungary,  as  vntnessetK 
Bonfinius,  Dec.  ii.  lib.  i.     In  Poland,  as  is  verified  by  Thuanus  also, 
lib.  Ivi.     In  Denmark,  as  Pontanus  telleth  us  in  Historia  Rerum 
Danicarum^  lib.  vii;    The  Swedes  observing  anciently  the  same  form 
and  order  of  government  as  was  used  by  the  Danes.     The  like  wie 
find  in  Camden,  for  the  realm  of  Scotland,  in  which  anciently  the  lorda 
Qpiritual   (namely,  bishops,   abbots,    priors)'  made'   the  third  Estate. 
And  certainly  it  were  very  strange,  if  the  bishops  and  other  prelates  in 
the  realm  of  England,  being  a  great  and  powerful  body,  should  move 
in  a  lower  sphere  in  England  than  they  do  elsewhere.     But,  Secondly^, 
not  to  stand  only  upon  probable  inferences,  we  find  first  in  the  History 
of  Titus  Livius,  touching  the  reign  and  acts  of  king  Henry  V.  "  that 
when  his  funerals  were  ended,  the  three  Estates  of  the  realm  of  Eng- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


622  APPkAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCSNCR.  PAltT  III. 

land  did  auemble  together,  and  declared  his  son  king  Henry  YI.  being 
an  uifiHit  of  e^t  months  old,  to  be  their  sovereign  lord,  as  liis  heir 
and  soeeesBor/    And  if  the  lords  spiritual  did  not  then  make  fhe 
third  Escape,  I  wonld  know  who  did.    Thirdly.  The  petition  tend^ced 
to  Richard  dnke  of  Gloncester,  to  accept  the  crown,  occorring  in  the 
Parliament  BoUs,  rons  in  the  name  of  the  three  Estates  of  the  realm  ; 
that  is  to  say,  ^  the  ]ardg  spiritual,  and  temporal,  and  the  Commons 
thereof."    Fourthly.  In  the  first  Parliament  of  the  said  Richard,  lately 
crowned  king,  it  is  said  expressly,  ^^  that  at  the  request  and  by  the 
consent  of  the  three  Estates  of  this  realm,  that  is  to  say,  the  lords 
spiritual  and  temporal,  and  Commons  of  this  land,  assembled  in  tiiis 
present  Pariiament,  and  by  authority  of  the  same,  it  be  pronounced, 
decreed,  and  declared.  That  our  said  sorereign  lord  the  king  was  and  is 
the  Tcry  and  undoubted  king  of  this  realm  of  England,"  &c.   Fifithly. 
It  is  acknowledged  so  in  the  statute  of  I  Elizabeth  cap.  3,  where 
the  Lords  spiritual  and  temporal,  and  the  Commons,  in  that  Parliament 
assembled,  being  said  expressly,  and  in  terminis,  to  represent  the  three 
Estates  of  this  realm  of  England,  did  recognise  the  queen  s  majesty  to 
be  their  '^  true,  lawful,  and  undoubted  soyereign  Mege  lady  and  queen." 
Add  unto  these  the  testimony  of  sir  Edward  Coke,  though  a  priTate 
person,  who  in  his  book  of  the  "  Jurisdiction  of  Courts,"  (published 
by  order  of  the  Long  Parliament,  chap,  i.)  doth  expressly  say,  that 
^^  the  Parliament  consists  of  the  head  and  body ;  that  the  head  is  the 
king,  that  the  body  are  the  three  Estates,  namely,  the  iLords  spiritual 
and  temporal,  and  Commons."    In  which  words  we  haye  not  <mly  the 
opinion  and  testimony  of  that  learned  lawyer,  but  the  authority  of  the 
Long  Parliament  also,  though  against  itself.     Those  aged  bishops  bad 
been  but  little  studied  in  their  own  concernments,  and  betrayed  their 
rights,  if  any  of  them  did  acknowledge  any  such  mistake  in  challeng- 
ing to  themselyes  the  name  and  priyileges  of  the  third  Estate. 

PuLLEE,— In  this  long  discourse,  the  Animadvertor  hath  given- 
in  the  several  particulars,  whereof  I,  in  my  Church-History,  gave 
the  total  sum, — when  saying,  that  there  were  "  passages  in  the  oM 
Statutes,  which  did  countenance  the  bishops  sitting  in  Parliament 
in  the  capacity  of  a  third  Estate.^ 

I  have  nothing  to  return  in  opposition,  and  heartily  wish  that  his 
arguments  (to  use  the  seaman^s  phrase)  may  prove  ^'stanch  and 
tight,  to  bold  water,^  when  some  Connnon-Lawyer  shall  examine 
them.  ' 

But  se^g  the  Animadvertor  hath,  with  his  commendable  pains, 
gone  so  far  in  this  point,  I  could  wish  he  had  gone  a  little  further, 
even  to  answer  the  two  common  objections  against  the  thitd  Estctte- 
ship  of  bishops. 

The  First  is  this :  The  bishop  (not  to  speak  of  bishops  suf- 
fragan) of  the  Isle  of  Man  is  a  bishop  for  all  purposes  and  intents 
of  jiuisdiction  and  ordination  ;  yet  hath  he  no  place  in  Parliament, 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


ANlMADVfiKSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORTj  BOOK  XI.      023 

because  not  holding  per  integram  Baroniam^  *^  by  as  entire 
barony.''  Now,  if  bishops  i^ate  in  Parliament  ta  a  third  iktate^ 
and  not  as  so  many  barons,  why  hath  not  the  bishop  of  Man,  being 
in  the  province  of  York,  a  place  in  Parliament,  as  well  as  the  rest  ? 

Secondly.  If  the  bishops  sit  as  a  third  Estate^  then  Statutes  made 
without  them  are  mane  and  defective ;  which  in  law  will  nbt  be 
allowed,  seeing  there  were  ^ome  sessions  of  Parliament  wherein 
Statutes  did  pass,  excluso  clero^  (at  leastwise,  absente  clero^)  which, 
notwithstanding,  are  acknowledged  obligatory  to  our  nation. 

I  also  request  him,  when  his  band  is  in,  to  satisfy  the  objection^ 
taken  from  a  passage*  in  the  Parliament  at  Northampton  under 
Henrf  II.  when  the  bishops  challenged  their  peerage ;  namely, 
Non  sedemus  hie  JEpiseopiy  sed  Barones :  nos  Barones^  voa  Barcmes^ 
praei  hie  mmm :  "  We  sit  not  here  as  bishops,  but  as  barons  :  we 
are  barons,  you  are  barons ;  here  we  are  peers :''  which  is  much 
enforced  by  anti-episcopists.  And  whereas  the  Animadvertor 
translated  it  "  not  as  bishops  only,''  it  is  more  than  questionable 
that  this  interpolation  "07z7y"will  not  be  admitted  by  such  who 
have  a  mind  curiously  to  examine  the  matter. 

I  protest  my  integrity  herein,  that  I  have  not  started  these  objec- 
tions of  myself,  having  had  them  urged  against  me  ;  and  though  I 
can  give  a  bungling  answer  unto  them,  I  desire  that  the  Animad- 
vertor (being  better  skilled  in  law)  would  be  pleased  (if  it  ever 
comes  again  in  his  way)  to  return  an  answer  as  short  and  clear  as 
the  objections  are ;  and  I,  and  many  more,  will  be  bound  to 
return  him  thanks.     Our  author  proceeds  i^^ 

303,  304.  Dr.  Heylin. — "  The  Convocation  now  not  sitting,  and 
many  matters  of  religion  being  brought  under  the  cognizance  of  the 
Parliament,  their  Wisdoms  adjudged  it  not  only  convenient,  but 
necessary,  that  some  prime  clergymen  might  be  consulted  with."  (Ch. 
Hist.  ToL  iii.  p.  445.)  It  seems,  then,  that  the  setting  up  of  the  new 
Assembly,  consisting  of  certain  lords  and  gentlemen,  and  two  or  more 
divines  out  of~  every  county,  must  be  ascribed  to  the  not-sitting  of  the 
C!onvocation.  Whereas  if  that  had  been  the  reason,  the  Convocation 
should  have  been  first  warned  to  re-assemble,  with  liberty  and  safe- 
conducts  given  them  to  attend  that  service,  and  freedom  to  debate 
such  matters  as  conduced  to  the  peace  of  the  church.  If  on  those 
tenos  they  had  not  met,  the  substituting  of  the  new  Assembly  might 
have  had  some  ground :  though  being  called  and  nominated  as  they 
were  by  the  House  of  Commons,  nothing  they  did  could  bind  the 
clergy,  further  than  as  they  were  compellable  by  the  power  of  the 
sword.    But  the  truth  is,  the  Convocation  was  not  held  fit  to  be 

•  Alleged  by  the  AiuiuaaTertor,  formerlj  in  Ua  fourth  book.    (See  page  440.) 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


624  APPtAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  III. 

trotted  in  the  present  designs ;  there  being  no  hope  that  they  would 
erer  gire  consent  to  the  ch^ige  of  the  goyemment,  or  to  the  abrogating 
of  the  litoigy  of  the  church  of  England ;  in  all  ^hich  the  divines  of 
their  own  nomination  were  presumed  to  serye  them.  And  so  accord- 
inglj  they  did,  advancing  their  Presbyteries  in  the  place  of  Episcopacy, 
their  Directory  in  the  room  of  the  Common-Prayer  Book,  their  Con- 
fession to  the  quality  of  the  Book  of  Articles :  all  of  them  so  short- 
lived, of  so  little  continuance,  that  none  of  them  passed  oter  their  pro- 
bationer's year.  Finally.  Having  served  the  turn,  amused  the  world, 
with  doing  nothing,  they  made  their  exit^  with  far  fewer  plaudits  than 
they  expected  at  their  entrance.  In  the  recital  of  whose  names,  our 
author  craves  pardon  for  omitting  the  greatest  part  of  them,  as 
unknown  to  him :  whereas  he  might  have  found  them  all  in  the 
Ordinance  of  the  Lords  and  Commons  by  which  they  were  called  and 
empowered  to  be  an  Assembly.  Of  which  pardon  he  afterwards  pre- 
sumes, in  case  he  hath  not  marshalled  them  in  their  seniority; 
because,  saith  he,  ■     ■ 

Fuller. — The  Animadvertor  now  enters  the  list  with  the 
Wisdoms  in  Parliament,  who  are  most  able  to  justify  their  owa 
act.  Mean  time  my  folly  may  stand  by  in  silence,  unconcerned  to 
return  any  answer. 

305.  Dr.  Heylin. — '^  It  savours  something  of  a  prelatical  spirit  to 
be  offended  about  precedency."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  447.)     I  see  our 
author  is  no  changeling ;  primus  ad  extremum  similis  sibiy  "  the  very 
same  at  last  as  he  was  at  the  first.**    Certainly,  if  it  savour  of  a  pre- 
latical spirit  to  contend  about  precedencies,  that  spirit    by  some 
Pythagoreaii  metempsychosis  hath  passed  into  the  bodies  of  the  Pres- 
byterians, whose  pride  had  swelled  them  in  conceit  above  kings  and 
princes,  and  thus  cometh  home  to  our  author.    Nothing  more  positive 
than  that  of  Travers,  (one  of  our  author's  shining  lights,  for  so  he  calls 
him,  Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  pp.  128 — 131,)  in  his  book  of  Discipline :  Htiic 
disciplinoB  omnes  principes  suhmiltere  fasces  suos  necesse  est^  as  his 
words  there  are.     Nothing  more  proud  and  arrogant  than  that  of  the 
Presbyterians  in  queen  Elizabeth's  time,  who  used  frequently  to  say, 
that  ^^  kings  and  queens  must  lay  down  their  sceptres,  and  lick  up  the 
very  dust  of  the  church's  feet,"  that  is,  their  own.*     And  this,  I  trow, 
doth  not  savour  so  much  of  a  prelatical  as  a  papal  spirit.  *  Diogenes 
the  Cynic,  affecting  a  vainglorious  poverty,  came  into  Plato's  chamber, 
and  trampled  the  bed  and  other  furniture  thereof  under  his  feet,  using 
these  words :  Calco  Platonis  fastum^  that  he  "trampled  On  the  pride 
of  Plato."    To  which  Plato  very  gravely  ainswered,  Sed  majori  fasiu^ 
intimating  that  the  Cynic  "  showed  more  pride  "  in  that  foolish  action, 
than  all  the  ornaments  of  his  chamber  could  accuse  him  of.    Ouf 
author  need  not  travel  far  for  the  application ;  it  comes  home  unto 
him.  .  :     .     . 

•  RooEiis  in  Ttehgie  to  tlie  "  Artlclea," 

Digitized  by  CjOOQ IC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  Xl.      625 

FuxLER. — If  it  cometh  home  unto  me,  I  will  endeavour  (God 
willing)  to  thrust  it  fiu:  from  me,  by  avoiding  the  odious  sin  of 
pride.  And  I  hope  the  Presbyterians  will  herein  make  a  real  and 
practical  re/utation  of  this  note,  in  evidencing  more  humility  here- 
after ;  seasonably  remembering,  "  they  are  grafted  on  the  stock  '^  of 
the  bishops,  and  are  concerned  "  not  to  be  high-minded  but  to  fear ; 
lest  if  God  spared  not ''  Episcopacy,  (for  what  sins  I  am  not  to 
inquire,)  peaceably  possessed,  above  a  thousand  years,  of  power  in 
the  church  of  England,  "  take  heed  that  he  spare  not  ^  Presbytery 
also  ;  which  is  but  a  probationer  on  its  good  behaviour,  especially 
if  by  their  insolence  they  offend  God  and  disoblige  our  nation,  the 
generality  whereof  is  not  over-fond  of  their  government.  Our 
author  proceeds  :— 

306,  8O7.  Dr.  Hbylin. — "We  listen  not  to  their  fancy  who  have 
reckoned  the  words  in  the  Covenant,  six  hundred  sixty-six,"  &c.  (Ch. 
Hist  vol.  iii.  p.  453.)     I  must  confess  myself  not  to  be  so  much  a 
Pythagorean,  as  to  find  divinity  in  numbers,  nor  am  iakej^  with  such 
mysteries  as  some  fancy  in  them.     And  yet  I  cannot  choose  but  say, 
that  the  number  of  six  himdred  sixty-six  words,  neither  more  nor  less, 
which  are  found  in  the  Covenant,  though  they  conclude  nothing,  yet 
they  signify  something.     Our  author  cannot  choose  but  know  what 
pains  were  taken,  even  in  the  times  of  Irenaeus,  to  find  out  Antichrist 
by  this  number;    s^me  thinking  then,  that  they  had  found  it  in 
Aare/vo^,  with  reference  to  the  persecuting  Roman  emperors.     Some 
protestants  think  that  they  had  found  it  in  a  dedication  to  pope  Paul 
the  fifth,  which  was   Paulo   Flo  Vice   Deo;  the  numeral   letters 
whereof,  that  is  to  say,  D.  C.  L.  V.  V.  V.  I.  amount  exactly  unto  six 
hundred  sixty-six,  which  is  "  the  number  of  the  beast "  in  Revelation. 
The  papists,  on  the  other  side,  find  it  in  the  name  of  Luther  ;  but  in 
what  language  or  how  spelled,  I  remember  not.     And  therefore,  who- 
soever he  tvas  which  made  this  observation  upon  the  Covenant,  he 
deserves  more  to  he  commended  for  his  wit,  than  condemned  for  his 
idleness.    But  much  less  is  our  author  pleased  with  their  parallel, 
who,  finding  this  Covenant  to  consist  of  six  branches,  compare  it  to 
the  terrible  Statute  of  the  Six  Articles  made  by  Harry  VIII.    And 
not  compared  so  without  cause :  For,  though  I  cannot  say,  that  the 
Ordinance  which  enjoined  the  Covenant  did  draw  so  much  blood  from 
the  poor  protestants  as  that  Statute  did ;  yet  I  may  warrantably  say, 
that  there  were  more  families  undone  by  the  one,  than  lives  lost  by 
the  other.    And,  Secondly,  it  may  be  said,  (I  fear,  too  truly,)  that 
though  the  Covenant  were  written  in  ink,  it  was  sealed  with  blood ; 
many  thousands  of  true  English  protestants  having  lost  their  lives  by 
the  coming-in  of  the  Scottish  armies,  drawn  into  England,  in  pursu- 
ance of  this  band  or  covenant.     So  that  the  lashes  of  .each  whip  being 
^^ual  in  number,  our  author  hath  no  reason  to  be  displeased  with 

s  s 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


626  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  IIJ. 

ihem  that  made  that  paraDel,  though  he  may  bare  some  reason  to 
himself  not  to  applaud  them. 

FuLLEB.-— The  Animadvertor  might  herein  have  allowed  me  the 
liberty  of  preterition,  a  familiar  figure  in  all  authors,  managed  by 
them  with,  TaeeOy  prcBtermitto^  transeOy  "  We  pass  by,""  "  listen 
not,^  &c.  when  relating  things  either  parca^  ^^  of  small  moment  f 
nota^  ^^  generally  known;'*'  or  ingratay  "unwelcome/''  to  many 
readers. 

Under  which  of  these  three  notions  the  point  in  hand  doth  fall,  I 
am  not  bound  to  discover.     Our  author  proceeds : — 

308 — 310.  Dr.  Heylin. — "  Now  began  the  great  and  general  pur- 
gation of  the  cleigy  in  the  Parliament's  quarters,  &c.     Some  of  whose 
offences  were  so  foul,  it  is  a  shame  to  report  them,  crying  to  justice  for 
punishment."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  459.)     And  it  was  time  that  such 
a  purgation  should  be  made,  if  ^'  their  offences  were  so  foul "  as  our 
author  makes  them.     But,  first,  our  author  might  have  done  well  to 
have  satisfied  himself  in  all  particulars,  before  he  raised  so  foul  a 
scandal  on  his  Christian  brethren,  and  not  to  have  taken  them  up 
upon  hearsay,  or  on  no  better  grounds  than  the  credit  of  the  ^'  First 
Century,"  which  he  after  mentions.     Which  modesty  he  might  hare 
learnt,  1.  From  the  author  of  that  scandalous  and  infamous  pamphlet, 
(whatsoever  he  was,)  desisting  from  the  writing  of  a  *'  Second  Cen- 
tury," as  being  sensible  that  "  the  subject  was  generally  odious."    And 
certainly,  if  it  were  odious  in  that  party  to  write  the  same,  it  must  he 
much  more  odious  in  our  author  to  defend  the  vnriting.     He  might 
have  learnt  it,  2.  From  the.  most  excellent  master  in  the  schools  of 
piety  and  morality  which  this  age  hath  given  us,  even  the  king  him- 
self;  who,  as  our  author  telle th  lis,  would  not  give  way  that  any  such 
book  should  be  written  "  of  the  vicious  lives  of  some  Parliament- 
ministers,"  when  such  an  undertaking  was  presented  to  him.     fldem, 
p.  460.)     But  if  "  their  offences  were  so  foul,"  the  writer  of  the 
"  Century  "  had  some  reason  for  what  he  did,  and  our  author  had  some 
reason  for  what  he  saith,  especially  if  the  putting-in  of  one  herb  had 
not  spoiled  all  the  pot  of  pottage.     But,  First,  Qui  alterum  inctisat 
probri  seipsum  iniueri  oportet,  is  a  good  rule  in  the  schools  of  pru- 
dence ;  and  therefore  it  concerns  our  author  to  be  siure  of  this, — that 
all  things  be  well  at  home,  both  in  his  own  person  and  in  his  family, 
before  he  throw  so  much  foul  dirt  in  the  face  of  his  brethren.    In 
which  respect  Manutius  was  conceived  to  be  the  unfittest  man  in 
Rome  (as  indeed  he  was)  to  perform  the  office  of  a  Censor,  though 
most  ambitiously  he  affected  and  attained  that  dignity ;  of  whom  it  is 
affirmed  by  Velleius  Paterculus,  nee  quicquam  ohjicere  potuit  adoUs- 
centibus  quod  non  agnosceret  senex^  that  is  to  say,  *'  that  he  was  ahle 
to  object  no  crime  to  the  younger  sort,  of  which  himself,  being  then 
well  in  years,  was    not  aJso  guilty."     And,  Secondly,   Non   ietnere 
defralre  mali  aliqutd  credendnm  esse,  was  anciently  a  rule  in  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH  HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.      627 

schools  of  charity;  whick  our  author  either  hath  forgotten,  or  else 
never  learned.  He  would  otherwise  hare  examined  the  proofs,  hefore 
he  had  pronounced  the  sentence ;  and  not  have  positively  condemned 
these  poor  men  for  such  ^^  foul  offences  as  cried  to  justice  for  punish- 
ment ; "  and  of  such  '^  scandalous  enormities "  as  were  not  fit  to  he 
covered  with  the  mantle  of  charity.  But  he  takes  himself  up  at  last 
with  a  douht,  that  there  might  want  sufficient  proof  to  convict  them  of 
it.  **  Nothing,"  saith  he,  "  can  he  said  in  their  excuse,  if  (what  was 
the  main  matter)  their  crimes  were  sufficiently  proved."  And  if  they 
^'  were  not  sufficiently  proved,"  as  indeed  they  were  not,  (no  witness 
coming-in  upon  oath  to  make  good  the  charge,)  our  author  hath  suffi- 
ciently proved  himself  an  unrighteous  judge,  an  accusator  fratrum^  as 
we  know  who  is,  in  accusing  and  condemning  them  for  '^  scandalous 
enormities  and  foul  offences,"  hranding  them  hy  the  name  of  Baal, 
and  calling  them  ^^  unsavoury  salt,  not  fit  to  he  thrown  upon  the  dung- 
hill ; "  yet  all  this  while  to  he  unsatisfied  in  the  sufficiency  of  the 
proof.  Decedis  ab  officio  religiosi  Judicis^*  is  the  least  that  can  be 
said  here  ;  and  I  say  no  more.  Only  I  note,  what  sport  was  made  hy 
that  ^^  Century "  then,  and  may  he  made  hereafter  of  this  part  of  the 
History,  in  the  Court  of  Rome ;  to  which  the  libellous  pamphlets  of 
Martin-Mar-Prelate,  published  in  queen  Elizabeth's  time,  served  for 
authentic  witnesses  and  sufficient  eyidence  to  disgrace  this  church. 
Nor  have  they  spared  to  look  upon  this  whole  business  as  an  act  of 
divine  retaliation,  in  turning  so  many  of  the  regular  and  orthodox 
clergy  out  of  their  benefices  and  preferments  by  our  new  Reformers, 
under  colour  of  some  '^  scandalous  enormities "  by  them  committed ; 
under  pretence  whereof  so  many  poor  monks  and  friars  were  (as  they 
say)  turned  out  of  their  cells  with  like  humanity  by  those  who  had  the 
firat  hammering  of  the  Reformation  here  by  law  established. 

Fuller. — First,  as  to  myself,  who  am  most  knowing  of  my  own 
infirmities:  I  will  confess  them  to  God,  and  not  plead  for  them 
before  man.  If  God'^s  restraining  grace  hath  bridled  me  from  scan- 
dalous obnoxiousness,  may  He  alone  have  the  honour  thereof.  As 
for  other  stains  and  spots  upon  my  soul,  I  hope  that  He  (be  it 
spoken  without  the  least  verbal  reflection)  who  is  the  Fuller's 
sope  f  will  scour  them  forth  with  his  merit,  that  I  may  appear  clean 
by  God*'s  mercy. 

I  know  full  well  who  it  is  that  is  termed  "  the  accuser  of  his 
brethren,"  even  Satan  himself.  Rev.  xii.  13.  Hence  it  is  that  one 
observeth,  he  hath  his  name,  Aii^oXos  JDiaholus,  "  Devil,**'  and  so 
also  in  Italian,  French,  Spanish,  with  some  small  variation ;  it 
being  good  reason,  that  he  should  keep  his  name  in  all  countries, 
who  keeps  his  nature  in  all  places,  being  a  constant  delator  and 
traducer  of  God's  servants,  often  without  cause,  always  without 
Pleasure. 

•  MiNUTius  Felix.  t  Mai.  iU.  2. 

2  s  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


028  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  '^  PART  III. 

Bat,  I  hope,  I  may  say  in  this  point,  ^^  Get,  thee  behind  me, 
Satan.^  I  mean,  I  may  justly  thrust  both  name  and  thing  &i  firom 
me,  even  to  light  where  it  deserveth. 

Some  of  my  brethren,  or  fathers  rather,  I  reverence  and  admire 
for  their  eminences :  others  I  commend  and  will  endeavour  to  imi- 
tate :  others,  guilty  of  human  infirmities,  I  desire  to  conceal  their 
&ults,  and  (that  not  taking  effect)  to  excuse  their  persons  :  such  as 
are  past  my  pleading  for,  ML  under  my  pity  and  have  my  prayers 
that  Ood  woidd  amend  them.  But  willingly,  much  less  causelessly, 
I  will  not  accuse  any ;  and  my  pen  and  tongue  hath  been  and  shall 
be  tender  of  their  reputations. 

Proceed  I  now  to  what  I  have  written  concerning  the  sequestered 
clergy  of  England ;  wherein  I  will  freely  (God  willing)  unbosom 
my  mind.;  and  "if  I  perish,  I  perish.''  I  appeal  to  the  Searcher 
of  hearts,  if  I  did  not  desire  to  do  them  all  just  favour,  as  I  hope  to 
find  favour  from  Him  when  I  most  need  it.  But  as  mariners,  when 
they  have  both  wind  and  tide  against  them,  cannot  make  their 
desired  port  in  a  straight  line,  and  therefore  are  fain  to  fetch  a  com- 
pass ;  senmably,*  I,  desiring  to  gratify  my  brethren,  and  not 
destroy  myself,  was  fain  to  go  about,  that  in  any  measure  I  might 
with  safety  do  it.  And  there  was  no  compassing  of  it  without 
compaoe-inff  it;  no  reaching  the  end  without  going  out  of  the 
way. 

First,  therefore,  I  did  acknowledge  what  indeed  could  not  be 
concealed,  and  what,  in  truth,  must  be  confessed;  namely,  that 
some  of  the  ejected  clergy  were  guilty  of  foul  offences  ;  to  whom, 
and  whom  alone,  the  name  of  Baal  and  "  unsavoury  salt ""  did 
relate.  Nor  was  it  a  wonder,  if,  amongst  ten  thousand  and  more, 
some  were  guilty  of  "  scandalous  enormities." 

This  being  laid  down,  and  yielded  to  the  violence  of  the  times, 
I  wrought  myself  by  degrees  (as  much  as  I  durst)  to  insert  what 
followeth,  in  vindication  of  many  others,  rigorously  cast  out  for 
following,  in  their  affections,  their  preceding  judgments  and  con- 
sciences ;  and  no  scandal  could  justly  be  charged  upon  them, 
pleading  for  them  as  ensueth : — 

^<  1.  The  witnesses  against  them  were  seldom  deposed  on  oath, 
but  their  bare  complaints  believed. 

"  2.  Many  of  the  complainers  were  fectious  people,  (those  most 
accusing  their  sermons  who  least  heard  them,)  and  who  since  have 
deserted  the  church,  as  hating  the  profession  of  the  ministry. 

**3.  Many  were  charged  with  delivering  false  doctrines,  whose 
positions  were  found,  at  the  least,  disputable.     Such,  those  accused 
for  preaching  that  '  baptism  washeth  away  original  sin  ;'  which  the 
•  On  thii  word  see  "  the  Editor's  Preface  "  to  Gb.  Hist.  toI.  i.—Edit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  tHE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.   '629 

most  learned  and  honest  in  the  Assembly,  in  some  sense,  will  not 
deny;  namely,  that  in  the  children  of  God  it  cleanseth  the  con- 
demning and  final  peaceable  commanding  power  of  original  sin, 
though  the  stain  and  blemish  thereof  doth  still  remain. 

"4.  Some  were  merely  outed  for  their  affections  to  the  king^s 
cause ;  and  what  was  malignity  at  London  was  hyaUy  at  Oxford. 

"5»  Yea,  many  moderate  men  of  the  opposite  party  much 
bemoaned  such  severity,  that  some  clergymen,  blameless  for  life, 
and  orthodox  for  doctrine,  were  ejected  only  on  the  account  of 
their  faithfulness  to  the  king'^s  cause.  And  as  much  corruption 
was  let  out  by  this  ejection,  (many  scandalous  ministers  deservedly 
punished,)  so  at  the  same  time  the  veins  of  the  English  church 
were  emptied  of  much  good  blood,  (some  inoffensive  pastors,)- which 
hath  made  her  body  hydropieal  ever  since ;  ill  humours  succeed- 
ing in  the  room,  by  reason  of  too  large  and  sudden  evacuation.^ 
(Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  pp.  459,  460.) 

Thisj  being  written  by  me,  some  ten  [years  since],  (in  the 
paroxysm  of  the  business,)  and  printed  some  four  years  since,  was 
as  much  as  then  I  durst  say  for  my  brethren,  without  running 
myself  into  apparent  danger^ 

If  the  papists  take  advantage  at  what.  I  have  written,  I  can  wash 
my  hands«  I  have  given  them  no  just  occasion  ;  and  I  hope  this 
my  just  defence  will  prove  satisfactory  to  the  ingenuous,. — that  I 
did  not  designedly  detract  from  any  of  my.  brethren.  But,  if  this 
my  plea  finds  no  acceptance,  and  if  I  must  groan  under  so  unjust 
an  accusation,  I  will  endeavour  to  follow  the  counsel  of  the  pro- 
phet :  "  I  will  bear  the  indignation  of  the  Lord,  because  I  have 
sinned  against  Him,  until  He  plead  my  cause,  and  execute  judg- 
ment for  me :  He  will  bring  me  forth  to  the  light,  and  I  shall 
behold  His  righteousness,''  Micah  vii.  9. 

311.  Dr.  Heylin. — ^But,  to  say  truth.  It  is  no  wonder,  if  he  concur 
with  others  in  the  condemnation  of  particular  persons,  since  he,  concurs 
with  others  in  the  condemnation  <^  the  church  itself.  For,  speaking 
of  the  separation  made  by  Mr.  Goodwin,  Mr.  Nye,  &c.  he  professeth, 
that  he  rather  doth  believe,  that  "  the  sinful  corruptions  of  the  wor- 
ship and  government  of  this  church,  taking  hold  on  their  consciences, 
and  their  inability  to  comport  any  longer  therewith,"  was  rather  "  the 
true  cause "  of  their  deserting  of  their  country,  than  that  it  was  for 
debt  or  danger,  as  Mr.  Edwards,  in  a  book  of  his,  had  suggested  of 
them.  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  pp.  461,  462.)  What  grounds  Mr.  Edwards 
had  for  his  suggestion,  I  inquire  not  now;  though,  coming  from  the 
pen  of  one  who  was  no  friend  unto  the  government  and  Liturgy  of  the 
church  of  England,  it  might  have  met  with  greater  credit  in  our 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ IC 


630  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  III. 

author.    For,  if  these  men  be  not  allowed  for  witnesseB  against  one 
another,  the  church  would  be  in  worse  condition  than  the  ancient 
Borderers :  amongst  whom,  though  the  testimony  of  an  Ekiglishman 
agiEunst  a  Soot,  or  of  a  Scot  against  the  English,  (in  matters  of  sikhI 
and  depredation,)  could  not  find  admittance ;  yet  a  Scot  s  eyidence 
against  a  Scot  was  beyond  exception.     Lege  inter  limit aneos  cautum, 
ut  nullus  nisi  Anglus  in  Anglum^  nullus  nisi  Scotus  in  Scotum^  testis 
admittaiuTy  as  we  read  in  Camden.*    We  see  by  this,  as  by  other 
passages,  which  way  our  author  s  bowl  is  biassed,  how  constantly  he 
declares  himself  in  favour  of  those  who  have  either  separated  firom  the 
church,  or  appeared  against  it     Rather  than  such  good  people  shall 
be  thought  to  forsake  the  land  for  ^'  debt  or  danger,"  the  church  shall 
be  accused  for  laying  the  heavy  burden  of  conformity  upon  their  con- 
sciences, which  neither  they,  nor  their  fore&ihers,  (the  old  English 
Puritans,)  were  resolved  to  bear.    For  what  else  were  those  ^'  onfbl 
corruptions  *  of  this  church  In  government  and  worship,  which  laid 
hold  of  their  consciences,  (as  our  author  words  it,)  but  the  government 
of  the  church  by  bishops,  the  rites  and  ceremonies  of  the  church  here 
by  law  established?  which  yet  must  be  allowed  of  by  our  author 
as  the  more  true  and  real  cause  of  their  separation,  than  that  which  we 
find  in  Mr.  Edvrards. 

Fuller.— I  knew  Mr.  Edwards  very  well,  my  contemporary  in 
Queen^s  College,  who  often  was  transported  beyond  due  bounds 
with  the  keenness  and  eagerness  of  his  spirit;  and,  therefore,  I 
have  just  cause  in  some  things  to  suspect  him ;  especially  being 
informed  and  assured  the  contrary  from  credible  persons. 

As  for  the  five  dissenting  members,  Mr.  Goodwin,  Mr.  Nye, 
Mr.  Simpson,  Mr.  Bridge,  Mr.  Burroughs,  (to  whom  Mr.  Archer 
may  be  reduced^)  they  owed  not  eighteen  pence  a-piece  to  any  in 
England ;  and  carried  over  with  them  no  contemptible  sums  in 
their  purses. 

As  for  lay  gentlemen  and  merchants  that  went  over  with  them, 
such  as  peruse  their  names  will  be  satisfied  in  their  responsible, 
yea,  plentiflil  estates. 

Sir  MATTHEW  BOINTON; 

Sir   WILLIAM  CONSTABLE; 

Sir   RICHARD  SALTINGSTON; 

Me.  LAWRENCE,  since  Lord  President  of  the  Council ; 

Mr.  ANDREWS,  since  Lord  Mayor  0/ London; 

Mr.  BOWRCHER; 

Mr.  ask,  since  a  Judge ; 

Mr.  JAMES ; 

Mr.  WHITE. 

*  Anrudti  JSiizabethto. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.     631 

And  although  the  last  of  these  failed  beyond  the  seas,  (a  catch* 
ing  casualty  with  great  undertakings,)  yet  was  he  known  to  have  a 
very  great  estate  at  his  going  over. 

Yea,  I  am  most  credibly  informed,  by  such  who  (I  am  confident) 
will  not  abuse  me  and  posterity  therein,  that  Mr.  Herbert  Palmer, 
(an  Anti-Independent  to  the  height,)  being  convinced  that  Mr. 
Edwards  had  printed  some  falsehoods  in  one  sheet  of  his  Gangrcena^ 
proffered  to  have  that  sheet  reprinted  at  his  own  cost,  but  some 
intervening  accident  obstructed  it. 

312.  Dr.  Heylin. — Nor  can  our  author  save  himself  by  his  parenthe- 
sis, in  which  he  tells  us,  that  he  uses  their  language  only.  For,  using  it 
without  check  or  censure,  he  makes  it  his  own  as  well  as  theirs,  and 
justifies  them  in  the  action  which  he  shoidd  have  condemned. 

"  Here  Mr.  Christopher  Love  gave  great  offence  to  the  Royalists  in 
his  sermon,  showing  the  impossibility  of  an  agreement,"  &c.  (Ch.  Hist, 
vol.  iii.  p.  470.)  This  happened  at  the  treaty  at  Uxbridge,  where  he 
had  thrust  himself  (as  the  Commissioners  affirmed)  upon  that  atten-- 
dance.  And  for  the  words  at  which  the  offence  was  taken,  they  were 
these ;  namely,  that  ^^  the  king's  Commissioners  came  with  hearts  fidl 
of  blood,  and  that  there  was  as  great  distance  between  that  treaty  and 
peace,  as  between  heaven  and  hell."  *  For  which,  though  some  con- 
demn him  for  want  of  charity,  and  others  for  want  of  discretion ;  yet 
our  author  seems  more  willing  to  have  men's  censures  fidl  lightly  on 
him,  ^'  because  since  he  hath  suffered,  and  so  satisfied  here  for  his 
&ults  in  this  or  any  other  kind."  This  rule  I  both  approve  and  am 
willing  to  practise,  and  could  wish  our  author  were  so  minded ;  who 
will  not  let  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury  be  at  rest  in  his  grave  after 
all  his  sufferings,  notwithstanding  the  great  difference  between  the 
persons,  and  the  impulsives  to  their  deaths.  But  Mr.  Love  was  Mr. 
Love ;  and  bishop  Laud  was  but  a  bishop,  to  whom  now  we  come. 

FuLLEE.-^This  is  an  hypercriticism  which  I  never  heard  of 
before,  and  now  do  not  believe.  In  opposition  whereunto  I  return, 
First,  that  if  a  writer  doth  slily  weave  another  author's  words  into 
his  own  cloth,  using  them  without  any  quotation,  then  indeed  he 
adopts  them  his  own. 

Secondly.  If  he  cite  the  words,  with  commendation  or  explicit- 
approbation  of  them,  then  also  he  asselfeth  them,  undertakes  for 
them,  and  is  bound  to  justify  them. 

Thirdly.  But  if  he  but  barely  cite  the  words,  without  any 
emphasis  of  praise  or  dispraise,  (the  case  now  in  hand,)  it  amounts 
to  no  more  than  unto  a  Vcdeat  quantii.m  valere  potest^  or  a  Sit  fides 
penes  authorem;  it  being  left  to  the  reader's  liberty,  to  believe 
more  or  less  or  nothing  thereof,  as  the  author  he  citeth  seemeth  to 

•  "  Treaty  at  Uxbridge,"  p.  31. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


032  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCK.       PA&T  HI. 

be  more  or  less  or  not  at  all  credible,  to  his   discretion.      Our 
author  proceeds:— 

313.  Db.  Hetlxn.— ^^  As  appears  by  bis  own  Diary,  which,  if 
eridence  against  him  for  his  &ult8,  may  be  used  as  a  witness  of  his 
good  works."  (Ch.  Hist.  toL  iii.  p.  472.)  The  Diary  which  onr 
author  speaks  of,  was  the  archbishop's  practical  commentary  on  those 
words  of  David,  ^  Teach  me,  O  Lord,  so  to  number  my  days,  that 
I  may  apply  my  heart  unto  wisdom." 

FuLLEE.— I  appeal  to  the  reader  of  my  History,  whether  I  have 
not  given  his  Diary  the  due  commendation,  thus  writing  thereof:— 

**  He  was  conscientious,  according  to  the  principles  of  his  devo- 
tion ;  witness  his  care  in  keeping  a  constant  Diary  of  the  passages 
in  his  life.  Now,  he  can  hardly  be  an  ill  husband  who  sums  up  his 
receipts  and  expenses  every  night ;  and  such  a  soul  is  or  would  be 
good,  which  enters  daily  into  a  scrutiny  of  his  own  actions.  Noir, 
an  exact  Diary  is  a  window  into  his  heart  who  maketh  it ;  and,  • 
therefore,  pity  it  is  that  any  should  look  therein,  but  either  the 
friends  of  the  party,  or  such  ingenuous  foes  as  will  not  (especially 
in  things  doubtful)  make  conjectural  comments  to  his  disgrace.'" 
(Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  475.) 

Dr.  HBTLiir.-*No  memorable  passage  happened  in  the  whole  comse 
of  his  life,  till  the  end  of  May,  1633,  (when  his  papers  were  seized 
on  by  Mr.  Prynne,)  which  he  had  not  booked  in  a  Memorial  by  the 
way  of  a  Diary  or  Journal.  Out  of  which,  though  Mr.  Prynne  excerpted 
nothing  but  that  which  he  conceived  might  tend  most  visibly  to  his 
disgrace  and  disadvantage,  and  published  it  to  that  end  in  print;  yet 
when  it  came  to  the  perusal  of  equal  and  indifferent  men,  it  was  so 
far  from  *^  serving  as  -  an  evidence  of  his  faults,"  (as  our  author  words 
it,)  that  it  showed  him  to  be  a  man  of  exemplary  piety  in  himself, 
unmoved  fidelity  to  his  friend,  of  most  perfect  loyalty  to  his  master, 
and  honest  affections  to  the  pubHc,  &c. 

Fuller. — If  I  were  delighted  in  carping  at  slips  of  pen  or  press, 
I  here  have  advantage  enough,  the  Animadvertor  aflSrming  that  the 
archbishop's  papers  were  seized  by  Mr.  Prynne  [in  May]  1633 ; 
at  which  ;time  Mr.  Prynne  was  in  no  capacity  to  make  such  a  sei- 
zure, being  himself  in  trouble  about  his  Histriomastix ;  and  the  date 
(though  not  confessed  in  the  errata)  is  no  doubt  misprinted  for 
1643.*  Thus  I  behold  him  who  carps  at  such  trifles,  like  one 
suing  his  neighbour  for  pedibm  ambulandoy  when,  though  the  jury 
must  find  for  the  plaintiff,  yet  he  is  looked  on  but  as  a  vexatious 
person  for  his  pains.  I  could  wish  that  all  cavilling  at  prelal  mis- 
takes might  be  forborne,  and  that  every  one  would  read  his  adver- 

•  See  page  350  in  whicli  the  errata  are  enumerated.— Edit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.     633 

V 

sary^s  book  as  in  his  conscience  he  conceiveth  it  intended  by  the 
writer,  that  so,  waving  all  typographical  escapes,  they  may  come  the 
sooner  to  the  cause  controverted  betvrixt  them. 

Dr.  Heylin. — He  that  shall  look  upon  the  list  of  the  things  pro- 
jected to  be  done,  and  in  part  done,  by  him,  (fol.  28,  29,)  will  find, 
that  both  his  heart  was  set  on,  and  his  hand  engaged  in,  many  excel- 
lent pieces  of  work,  tending  to  the  great  honour  and  benefit  both  of 
church  and  state ;  not  incident  to  a  man  of  such  narrow  comprehen- 
sions, as  some  of  his  professed  enemies  were  pleased  to  make  him* 
Certain  I  am,  that  as  Mr.  Prynne  lost  his  end,  so  he  could  not  get 
much  thanks  for  that  piece  of  service. 

Fuller.— If  "  Mr.  Prynne  lost  his  end,''  he  shall  have  no 
direction  firom  me  for  the  finding  thereof. 

I  never  beheld  the  archbishop  as  a  man  of  narrow  comprehensions, 
but  as  one  who  had  in  his  head  and  heart  stowage  enough  for  great 
undertakings.  Only  I  could  wish  that  his  apprehensions  had  been 
adequate  to  his  comprehensions ;  I  mean,  that  he  had  lived  to 
perfect  what  he  projected,  and  do  what  he  commendably  designed 
for  pious  uses,  and  the  public  good.    Our  author  goes  on :— 

314.  Dr.  Heylin — "  He  is  generally  charged  vnth  popish  inclina- 
tions ;  and  the  stoiy  is  commonly  told  and  believed  of  a  lady,"  &c. 
(Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  473.)  Here  is  a  charge  of  the  archbishop's 
inclination  unto  popery,  and  the  proof  nothing  but  a  tale,  and  the  tale 
of  a  lady. 

Quidvento?    MuHer.     QuidmuUeref    Nihil, 

The  substance  of  the  tale  is  this,  that  a  certain  lady,  (if  any  lady 
may  be  certain,)  who,  turning  papist,  &c. 

Fuller. — I  will  take  the  boldness  to  English  his  Latin  verse, 
that  the  weaker  sex  may  see  the  strength  of  his  charity  unto 
them  :— 

<<  What  '8  more  fickle  tluuL  the  yAbA  7 
Even  a  woman  in  her  mind. 
Fickler  what  'b  than  woman-kind  ?  . 
Nothing  in  the  world  we  find." 

Dr.  Heylin.— This  lady  who  turned  papist  was  asked  by  the  arch- 
bishop the  cause  of  her  changing ;  to  which  she  answered,  "  that  it  was 
because  she  always  hated  to  go  in  a  crowd."  And  being  asked  the 
meaning  of  that  expression,  she  replied  again,  that  she  perceived  his 
lordship,  and  many  others,  making  haste  to  Rome;  and  therefore,  to 
prevent  going  in  a  press,  she  had  gone  before  them.  Whether  this 
tale  be  true  or  false,  though  he  doth  not  know,  yet  he  resolves  to  set  it 
down,  and  to  set  it  down  ali^  vnth  this  itenty — that  "  it  was  generally 
believed."    Be  it  so  for  once. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


634  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  III. 

F  DLL  BR.— This  sarcasm  was  put  npon  bim  by  a  lady,  now 
living  in  Lcmdon,  and  a  countess,  whose  husband^s  father*  the 
aichlfishop  married,  and  thereby  brought  much  trouble  and  molesta- 
tion to  himself.  No  GBdipus  needeth  to  unriddle  the  person,  easily 
spelled  by  putting  the  premisses  together. 

Dr.  HsYLnc-^For,  not  being  able  to  disprore  it,  I  shail  ^uit  our 
author  with  one  stoiy,  and  satisfy  the  equal  reader  with  another.  First 
For  my  author :  I  hare  heard  a  tale  of  a  lady  too,  to  whose  table  one  Mr. 
Fuller  was  a  welcome  though  a  frequent  guest ;  and  being  asked  once 
by  her,  Whether  he  would  please  to  eat  the  wing  of  a  woodcock,  he 
would  needs  put  her  to  the  question,  how  her  ladyship  knew  it  was 
a  wood-cocit,  and  not  a  Yrood-ken,  And  this  he  pressed  with  such 
a  troublesome  importunity,  that  at  last  the  lady  answered  wkh  some 
show  of  displeasure,  that  ^^  the  woodcock  was  Fuller-^headed,  Fuller- 
breasted,  Fnller-thighed,  and,  in  a  word,  every  way  Fullbb.* 
Whether  this  tale  be  true  or  fialse,  I  am  not  able  to  say ;  but,  *^  beiiig 
generally  beliered,"  I  hare  set  it  down  also. 

Fuller.—- His  tale  doth  not  quit  mine,  which  was  true  and  nev, 
never  printed  before.  Whereas  his  is  oldj  (made,  it  seems,  on  one 
of  my  name,  printed  before  I  was  born,)  and  /abe,  never  by  man 
or  woman  retorted  on  me. 

However,  if  it  doth  quit  mine,  he  is  now  but  even  with  me ;  and 
hereafter  I  shall  be  abore  him,  by  forbearing  any  bitter  return. 

I  had  rather  my  name  should  make  many  causelessly  merry,  than 
any  justly  sad ;  and  seeing  it  lieth  equally  open  and  obvious  to 
praise  and  dispraise,  I  shall  as  little  be  elated  when  flattered, 
"  Fuller  of  wit  and  learning,^'  as  dejected  when  flouted, "  Fuller 
of  folly  and  ignorance.'" 

All  this,  which  the  Animadvertor  hath  said  on  my  name,  I 
behold  as  nothing;  and  as  the  anagram  of  his  name,  Heylin, 
nehiliy  "  notliing  vorth.'^ 

315.  Dr.  Heylin — But  my  other  story  is  more  serious,  intended 
for  the  satisfaction  of  our  author  and  the  reader  both.  It  was  in 
November,  anno  1639,  that  I  received  a  message  from  the  lord  arch- 
bishop to  attend  him  the  next  day  at  two  of  the  dock  in  the  afternoon. 
The  key  being  turned  which  opened  the  way  into  his  study,  I  found 
him  sitting  in  a  chair,  holding  a  paper  in  both  hands,  and  his  eyes  so 
fixed  upon  that  paper,  that  he  observed  me  not  at  my  coming  in* 
Finding  him  in  that  posture,  I  thought  it  fit  and  maimers  to  retire 
again.  But  the  noise  I  made  by  my  retreat  bringing  him  back  unto 
himself,  he  recalled  me  again ;  and  told  me,  after  some  short  pause, 
that  he  v^ell  remembered  that  he  had  sent  for  me,  but  could  not  tell 

•  Charles  Blount,  created  earl  of  Devon.— Edit. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.     635 

for  his  life  what  it  was  about.  After  which  he  was  pleased  to  say,  (not 
without  tears  standing  in  his  eyes,)  that  he  had  then  newly  receiyed  a 
letter,  acquainting  him  with  a  lercit  of  a  person  of  some  quality  in 
North  Wales,  to  the  church  of  Rome;  that  he  knew  that  the  increase 
of  popery,  by  such  frequent  revolts,  would  be  imputed  unto  him  and 
his  brethren  the  bishops,  who  were  all  least  guilty  of  the  same ;  that, 
for  his  part,  he  had  done  his  utmost,  so  far  forth  as  it  might  consist 
with  the  rules  of  prudence,  and  the  preservation  of  the  church,  to 
suppress  that  party,  and  to  bring  the  chief  sticklers  in  it  to  condign 
punishment ;  to  the  truth  whereof  (lifting  up  his  wet  eyes  to  heaven) 
he  took  God  -io  witness ;  conjuring  me,  (as  I  would  answer  it  to  God 
at  the  day  of  judgment,)  that  if  ever  I  came  to  any  of  those  places 
which  he  and  his  brethren,  by  reason  of  their  great  age,  were  not  like 
•to  hold  long,  I  would  employ  all  such  abilities  as  God  had  given  me 
in  suppressing  that  party  who,  by  their  open  undertakings  and  secret 
practices,  were  like  to  be  the  ruin  of  this  flourishing  church.  After 
some  words  of  mine  upon  that  occasion,  I  found  some  argument  to 
divert  him  from  those  sad  remembrances;  and,  having  brought  him 
to  some  reasonable  composedness,  I  took  leave  for  the  present;  and, 
some^two  or  three  days  after,  waiting  on  him  again,  he  then  told  me 
the  reason  of  his  sending  for  me  the  time  before.  And  this  I  deliver 
for  a  truth  on  the  faith  of  a  Christian ;  which  I  hope  wiU  overbalance 
any  evidence  which  hath  been  brought  to  prove  such  popish  inclina- 
tions, as  he  stands  generally  charged  with  in  our  author  s  History. 

Fuller.— I  verily  believe  all  and  every  one  of  these  passages 
to  be  true,  and  therefore  may  proceed.     Our  author  proceeds : — 

316.  Dr.  Heylin.— "However,  most  apparent  it  is,  by  many  pas- 
sages in  his  life,  that  he  endeavoured  to  take  up  many  controversies 
betwixt  us  and  the  church  of  Rome."  (Ch.  Hist.  voL^ii.  p.  474.) 
And  this  indeed  is  novum  crimen,  that  is  to  say,  "a  crime  of  a  new 
stamp,"  never  coined  before. 

Puller.— I  call  it  not  nomm  crimen,  which  I  believe  was,  in 
him,  according  to  his  principles,  pium  propositum ;  but,  let  me  also 
add,  wQ.sfrugtraneus  conatus ;  and  that  not  only,  ex  eventu,  because 
it  did  not  [take  effect],  but  ex  naturd  rei,  because  it  could  not  take 
effect ;  such  the  real  unreconcilableriess  betwixt  us  and  Rome. 

Dr.  Heylin— I  thought,  that  when  our  Saviour  said,  Beati  pacifici, 
it  had  been  sufficient  warrant  unto  any  man  to  endeavour  peace,  to 
build  up  the  breaches  in  the  church,  and  to  make  Jerusalem  hke  **a 
city  which  is  at  unity  in  itself;"  especially  where  it  may  be  done, 
not  only  salvd  charitate,  "  without  breach  of  chanty,  hut  MJide 
too,  "without  wrong  to  the  faith."  The  greatest  part  of  the  con- 
troversies betwixt  us  and  the  church  of  Rome  not  bemg  m  the 
fundamentals,  or  in  any  essential  points  in  the  Christian^  religion;  I 


Digitized  by 


Google 


636  APPEAL  OF  INJURBD  IKNOCSNCS.  PART  III. 

cannot  tAhermat  look  npm  it»  but  as  a  moot  Chtiirtian,  proas  wodk,  to 
cndearoor  an  at-anement*  in  the  supcisUutfUues,  But  haeei  om 
anthor  seems  to  doubt.  Hist,  wliether  sndi  endeaTonrs  to  agree  and 
compose  the  differences^  be  lawful  or  not ;  and,  Seeondlj,  ^liiether 
thej  be  possible, 

FuLLER«^-I  confess  scriptme  prononncetb  the  peacemakeis 
*'  blessed,^  Matt.  y.  9.  In  answer  whereonto,  I  will  take  no  notice 
of  Jehn'^s  tart  retora  to  king  Joram  :  ^*  What  peace,  so  long  as  the 
whoredoms  of  thy  moth^  Jezebel  and  her  witchcrafts  are  so  manj?^ 
2  Kings  ix.  22.  Rather  will  I  make  use  of  the  calm  counsel  of 
the  apostle :  '*  If  it  be  possible,  as  much  as  in  you  lieth,  lire 
peaceably  with  all  men,^  Rom.  xii.  18.  Which  words  (if  it  be 
passible)  intimate  an  impossibility  of  peace  with  some  natures^  in 
some  differences,  though  good  men  have  done  what  lieth  (under- 
stand it,  kwfully)  in  their  power  to  perform ;  such  sometimes  the 
frowardness  of  one  (though  the  forwardness  of  the  other),  side  to 
agreement :  which  is  the  true  state  of  the  controyeny  betwixt  a& 
and  Rome. 

317«  Db*  Hbtldi..— As  for  the  lawfulness  thereof  I  oonld  never 
see  any  reason  produced  against  it,  nor  so  much  as  any  question  made 
of  it,  till  I  found  it  here. 

FuLLEE.-*All  such  zealous  authors  who  charge  the  papists  with 
idolatry,  (and  the  Animadvertor  knows  well  who  they  are,)  do 
question  the  lawfulness  of  such  an  agreement. 

.  Db.  HEYLiN.-*Against  the  possibility  thereof  it  hath  been  objected, 
ihat  such  and  so  great  is  the  pride  of  the  church  of  Borne,  that  they 
will  condescend  to  nothing.  And,  therefore,  if  any  such  composition 
or  agreement  be  made,  it  must  not  be  by  dieir  meeting  us,  but  our 
going  to  them. 

Fuller.— I  remember,  some  (then  present)  have  told  me  of  a 
passage  at  a  disputation  in  Oxford.  When  Dr.  Prideaux  pressed 
home  an  argument,  to  which  the  answerer  •(•  returned,  Meverende 
Professor^  memini  me  legisse  hoc  ipsissimum  argvmenium  apud 
BeUarminvm. — At^  mifili^  retdmed  that  Doctor,  ubi  legisti  regxm- 
sum?  This  objection  the  Animadvertor  acknowledgeth  he  hath 
formerly  met  with :  but  where  did  he  meet  with  a  satisfiwtory 
answer  thereunto  ? 

Let  me  add :  it  is  not  only  the  pride  of  the  church  of  Rome, 

which  will  not  let  go  her  power ;  but  also  her  covetousness,  which 

will  not  part  with  her  profit ;  which  obstructeth  all  accommodation 

betwixt  us.    And  if  the  church  of  Rome  would,  the  court  of  Rome 

• 

•  See  note,  page  678 — Edit.  f  Mr.  I.  Sh. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORV,  BOOK  XL     637 

will  noty  quit  the  premises ;  and  the  latter  hath  an' irresistible  influ- 
ence on  the  former.  In  this  point,  the  court  of  Rome  is  like  the 
countryman,  who  willingly  put  his  cause  to  arbitration ;  but  on 
this  condition,— to  have  all  the  land  he  sued  for,  with  the  full  pro-^ 
fits  thereof  to  «  minute  past,  ^nd  his  own  costs  and  charges  to  a 
ferthing.  Such  and  nd  other  agreement  will  the  court  of  Rome 
condescend  unto. 

Dr.  Heylin.— But,  as  our  author  saith,  that  many  of  the  arch-^ 
bishop's  '^  equals  adjudged  that  design  of  his  to  be  impossible  ;"  so  I 
may  say,  (without  making  any  such  odious  comparisons,)  that  many  of 
our  author's  betters  haye  thought  otherwise  of  it. 

Fuller. — ^Amongst  which  "  many  of  his  betters,*'  the  Animad- 
vertor  undoubtedly  is  one  of  the  principal.  •  Be  it  so,  I  will  endear 
Tour  to  be  as  good  I  can,  and  will  not  envy  but  honour  my  beUerSy 
whose  number  God  increase !  Sure  I  am,  amongst  these  <^  many 
of  my  betters,''  the  difference  betwixt  us  and  the  papists  is  made 
never  a  whit  the  better,  there  remaining  still  jxeya  xoL<r^oL :  and 
though  many  may  manifest  much  good-will  to  advance,  nothing 
hath  taken  effect  to  complete,  such  a  composition. 

Dr.  Heyltn. — ^It  was  the  petulancy  of  the  Puritans  on  the  one 
side,  afiad  the  pragmaticalness  of  the  Jesuits  on  the  other  side,  which 
made  the  breach  wider  than  it  was  at  the  first :  and  had  these  hot 
spirits  on  both  sides  been  charmed  a  while,  moderate  men  might  pos- 
sibly have  agreed  on  such  equal  terms,  as  would  have  laid  a  sure 
foundation  for  the  peace  of  Christendom. 

Fuller. — ^Let  us  behold  the  original  breach  betwixt  the  church 
of  Rome  and  us.  I  name  the  church  of  Rome  first,  because  confi- 
dent they  caused  it;  so  that  we  may  say  unto  them,  Pharez^ 
"  The  breach  be  upon  them  ! "  This  breach  was  made  before  either 
Puritans  or  Jesuits  ever  appeared  in  England  ;  as  the  Animadver- 
tor,  skilled  in  their  dates,  knoweth  full  well.  It  is  therefore  sus- 
picious, that  the  wound  which  was  made  before  these  parties  were 
in  being  will  continue,  if  both  of  them  were  extinct. 

I  behold  the  College  of  Sorbonnists  in  Paris  as  fiur  from  Jesuiti- 
cal pragmaticalness,  and  Dr.  John  Cosin  as  one  free  from  Puritani- 
cal petulancy.  Yet  though  the  said  Doctor  hath  complied  with 
them  so  far  as  he  could  do  with  Christian  prudence,  mhd  consci- 
etUid ;  and  though  the  Sorbonnists  are  beheld  as  the  most  learned 
and  moderate  papists ;  yet  I  cannot  hear  of  any  accommodation 
betwixt  them ;  but  rather  the  contrary,  even  in  the  point  of  the 
Apocrypha,  (a  controversy  so  learnedly  canvassed  by  the  Doctor,) 
they  being  as  unwilling  to  allow  so  few,  as  he  so  many^  books  in  th^ 
Bible  to  be  canonical. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


638  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  III. 

And  here  let  me  be  the  Animadvertor^s  remembTancer,  (of  what 
perchance  he  would  wiUingly  forget,)  how  it  was  not  long  since  be 
twitted  me  for  saying,  that  the  difference  about  the  posture  of  the 
communion-table  might  be  accommodated  with  mutual  modulation ; 
and  now  he  holdeth,  by  the  same  means  an  expedient  betwixt  us 
and  the  papists  may  be  advanced. 

Dr.  Hetlin.— Moderate  men  might  possibly  hare  agreed  on  such 
equal  tetms,  as  would  hare  laid  a  sure  foundation  for  the  peace  of 
Christendom. 

Fuller. — My  name  is  Thomas.  It  maketh  me  the  more  dis- 
trust thereof,  because  I  see  at  this  day  most  cruel  wars  betwixt  the 
Crowns  of  Spain  and  France,  both  which  agree  to  the  height  in  the 
same  Rombh  religion.  I  am  sorry  their  differences  are  paralleled 
with  a  sadder  instance  oF  the  deadly  wars  betwixt  the  Swede  and 
Dane,  both  Lutherans  alike.  And  our  sea-wars  betwixt  us  and  the 
Hollander  (both  well-paid  for)  are  not  yet  forgotten.  All  I  collect 
is  this,— that  if  the  agreement  betwixt  us  and  papists  were  expedited 
to-morrow,  yet,  so  long  as  there  be  several  greatnesses  in  Christen- 
dom, there  will  be  justlings  betwixt  them.  And  although  they  are 
pleased  to  score  their  differences  (for  the  greater  credit)  on  the 
account  of  conscience  and  religion;  yet  what  saith  St.  James? 
*'  From  whence  come  wars  and  fightings  amongst  you  ?  Come 
they  not  hence,  even  of  your  lusts,  that  war  in  your  members?'' 
James  iv.  1.  And  it  is  a  sad  truth,  such  the  corruption  of 
human  nature  that  men^s  lives  and  lusts  will  last  and  end  together. 

Dr.  Heylin.— Now  that  all  these  in  the  church  of  Rome  are  not 
so  stifBiy  wedded  to  their  own  opinions  as  our  author  makes  them, 
appears.  First,  by  the  testimony  of  the  archbishop  of  Spalato,  declariDg 
in  the  High-Commission,  a  little  before  his  going  hence,  that  "he 
acknowledged  the  Articles  of  the  church  of  Englj^d  to  be  true,  or 
profitable  at  the  least,  and  none  of  them  heretical." 

Fuller. — The  Animadvertor  hath  instanced  in  an  ill  person, 
and  in  an  ill  time  of  the  same  person.  It  was  just  when  he  was 
a-taking  his  return  to  his  vomit,  and  to  leave  the  knd;  when, 
knowing  himself  obnoxious,  and  justly  under  the  lash  (for  his  covet- 
ous compliance  with  foreign  invitations)  of  king  James,  to  get 
leave  to  be  gone,  he  would  say  any  thing  here,  and  unsay  it  again 
elsewhere.  As  little  heed  is  to  be  given  to  such  a  Proteus,  as  hold 
is  to  be  iaken  of  him. 
• 

318.  Dr.  Heylin.— It  appears,  Secondly,  by  a  tractate  of  Francis- 
cus  de  Sancta  Clara,  (as  he  calleth  himself,)  in  which  he  putteth  such 
a  gloss  upon  the  Nine  -and-Thirty  Articles  of  the  church  of  England, 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.    QSg 

HB  rendereth  them  not  ineonsistent  vi^ith  the  doctrines  of  the  church  of 
Rome. 

Fuller. — By  that  parenthesis,  "  as  he  calleth  himself,^  it  is  left 
suspicious,  that  his  true  name  was  otherwise.  And  he  who  would 
not  use  his  own  but  a  false  name  might  (for  aught  I  know)  put  a 
false  gloss  upon  our  Articles ;  and  though  he  puUeth  such  a  sense 
upon  them,  it  is  questionable  whether  our  Articles  will  accept 
thereof.  *<  To  put  something  upon  ^  sometimes  answers  to  the 
Latin  word  imponerey  which  is  "  to  deceive  and  delude^"  and  some- 
times is  equivalent  to  our  English  word  "  impose,^  which  sonndeth 
"  the  forcible  or  fraudulent  obtruding  of  a  thing  against  the  will  and 
mind  of  him,  or  that,  whereon  it  is  imposed.''  Lastly.  The  Ani- 
madvertor  cannot  warrant  us,  that  the  rest  of  the  church  of  Rome 
will  consent  to  the  judgment  of  Franciscus  de  Sanctd  Clara ;  and 
if  not,  then  is  the  breach  betwixt  us  left  as  wide  as  it  was  before. 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^And  if  without  prejudice  to  the  truth  the  controver- 
sies might  have  been  composed,  it  is  most  probable  that  other  pro- 
testant  churches  would  have  sued  by  their  agents  to  be  included  in  the 
peace. 

Fuller.— The  Animadvertor's  prudent  and  politic  probability, 
that  other  protestant  churches  would,  by  their  agents,  solicit  an 
inclusion  into  such  a  peace,  mindeth  me  of  the  distich  written  on 
the  sumptuous  cradle,  gorgeously  trimmed  for  the  child  of  queen 
Mary  by  Philip  king  of  Spain  : — 

Qtuim  MaruB  tobolem,  Deut  C^time  Summe,  dedUH, 
Anglis  incolumem  redde,  iuere,  rege, 

^*  O  may  the  cbild,  to  Maiy  Ood  hath  given. 
For  England's  good  be  goarded  safe  by  heaven.' ' 

Whereas  indeed  this  child,  pretended  at  Whitehall,  may  be  said 
bom  at  Nonsuch,  proving  nothing  but  a  mock-mother  tympany. 

I  cannot  but  commend  the  kindness  and  care  of  the  Animadver- 
tor,  for  keeping  this  babe  when  born ;  I  mean  the  agreement 
betwixt  us  and  the  papists.  But  let  us  behold  it  bom,  see  it  first 
effected ;  and  then  we  shall  know  whether  foreign  protestant 
churches  will  dandle  this  infant,  or  destroy  it ;  I  mean,  whether 
they  will  declare  for,  or  protest  and  remonstrate  against  it.  It  will 
be  time  enough,  then,  for  both  our  survivor  to  return  an  answer. 

Db.  Hetlin. — If  not,  the  church  of  England  had  lost  nothing  by 
it,  as  being  hated  by  the  Calvinists,  and  not  loved  by  the  Lutherans. 

Fuller. — Short  and  sharp,  much  matter  in  few  'words,  and 
little  tmth  in  much  matter.  Our  church  of  England,  in  relation  to 
foreign  protestant  churches,  is  here  by  the  Animadvertor  repre- 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


640  APPEAL  OP  INJURED  INN0CBKC8.  PART  in. 

sented  in  a  strange  poetore ;  like  another  Ishmael,  '^  wliose  bind 
was  against  eyery  one,  and  eyery  one^s  against  him,^  Gen.  zyi.  22. 

That  oar  church  is  not  hated  by  the  Calvinists,  appeara  by  many 
and  pkin  passages  in  the  books  of  those  who  are  ^oxouvre^  oruXoi, 
"  seeming  pilhurs,^  amongst  them, — Calvin,  Beza,  Zanchy,  Deodat, 
Molinseos,  &c.  who  (notwithstanding  some  small  differences  betwixt 
us)  lovingly  give  us  the  right  hand  of  fellowship. 

The  Animadyertor  discoyers  himself  as  little  statesman  as  divine 
in  advising  the  church  of  England,  by  making  foes  of  her  friends, 
to  make  friends  of  her  foes ;  by  incurring  the  enmity  of  foreign 
protestanis,  thereby  to  procure  the  amity  of  papists. 

The  best  is,  there  is  no  danger  to  see  that  day.  The  poor 
woman  in  the  Gospel  was  troubled  with  a  double  issue,  the  one  of 
blood,  the  life  in  her  body ;  and  the  other  of  money,  the  life-blood 
of  her  estate ;  but  the  latter  was  quickly  stanched,  ^'  having  spent 
all  her  living  on  physicians  to  no  purpose,^  Luke  yiii.  43.  Thus 
successless  have  their  pains  proved  hitherto  who  have  endeavoured 
an  accommodation  betwixt  us  and  Rome;  so  that  the  wound 
betwixt  us  may  justly  be  beheld  as  incurable. 

319.  Db.  Hetlin.— But  our  author  will  not  here  desist,  (so  soon 
hath  he  forgotten  his  own  rule  made  in  the  case  of  Mr.  Love,)  and 
therefore  mustereth  up  his  faults;  namely,  L  ^^ Passion,"  though  an 
^  human  frailty.*  2.  ^  His  severity  to  his  predecessor,  easing  him, 
before  his  time,  and  against  his  vrill,  of  his  jurisdiction,"  3.  ^  His 
over-meddling  in  state-matters."  4.  "  His  imposing  of  the  Scottish 
Liturgy."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  474.)  Of  all  which  we  have  spoken 
so  much  upon  other  occasions,  that  is  to  say,  numbers  246,  251,  289, 
259 ;  (pages  572,  580,  587,  611 ;)  and  therefore  do  not  count  it  neces- 
sary to  add  any  thing  here. 

Fuller. — I  shall,  God  willing,  remember  and  practise  my  rale 
in  the  case  of  Mr.  Love,  when  the  Animadvertor  (I  fear)  will  be 
found  to  have  foigotten  it.  Here  are  four  faults  of  the  archbishop 
mustered  up  by  me ;  and  is  it  not  a  tliin  muster  indeed  ?  When 
a  gentleman  was  told,  that  he  would  be  much  ashamed  if  all  his 
feults  were  written  in  his  forehead  ;  he  (in  my  mind)  modestly  and 
wittily  replied,  thcU  he  should  be  right  glad  that  his  face  could  hold 
them  all  I  Happy  is  that  man  whose  faults  may  be  reduced  to  the 
number  of  four ! 

I  have,  in  my  reply  to  the  fore-cited  pages  of  the  Animadvertor, 
returned  my  answer  unto  them  ;  and  therefore,  to  use  his  language, 
"  account  it  unnecessary  to  add  any  thing  here.^' 

I  have  done  no  wrong  to  the  archbishoip*'s  memory,  if  I  have 
charged  him  with  four  faults,  and,  to  overpoise  them,  have  given 
him  many  commendations,  in  several  places  of  my  book ;  which 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THK  CHURCH-HlSTORt,  BOOK  XI.     641 

here  I  will  sum  up  to  confute  that  loud  and  late  untruth  of  the 
Animadvertor,  when  saying,  (page  580,)  "  Our  author  gives  u6 
nothing  of  this  prelate  but  his  wants  and  weaknesses.'*^ 

The  praise  I  gave  hitn  is  reducible  to  four  heads  :  Naturals  or 
Corporals,  about  his  body  or  person ;  Morals  or  Ciyils,  touching 
his  demeanour  to  others ;  Iktellectuals,  whether  innate,  or 
acquisite  by^his  own  industry ;  Spirituals  or  Supematurals^  to 
which  his  bene&ctions  (as  the  fruit  of  a  lively  faith)  are  reduced. 

All  these  quotations  are  taken  out  of  the  eleventh  book  of  my 
Church  History : — 

Naturals.— 1.  Nephew  to  a  Lord  Mayor  of  London,  therefore 
not  basely  bom.  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  472.)  2.  "  Cheerful  in 
countenance.^'  fidem,  p.  477.)  3.  *'  A  sharp  and  piercing  eye."** 
(Ibidem. J  4.  "  Gravity  and  quickness  were  well-compounded  in 
his  face.*'  (Ibidem.) .  5.  "So  cheerful  his  countenance,  (when 
ascending  the  scaffold,)  as  rather  to  gain  a  crown,  than  lose  his 
head.-'  (Idem,  p.  471.) 

Morals.—^.  "  He  was  temperate  in  his  diet."  (Idem,  p.  475.) 
7.  *'  Chaste  in  his  conversation."  (Ibid.)  8.  "  Plain  in  his 
apparel."  (Ibid.)  9.  "  Not  preferring  his  own  kindred  without 
merit."  (Idem,  p.  476.)  10.  "  Promoting  men  of  leiaming  and 
abilities."  (Ibid.)  11.  "  Covetousness  he  perfectly  hated."  (Ibid,) 
12.  "  Had  no  project  to  raise  a  name  or  family."  (Ibid.)  13. 
"Abridged  courtiers'  bribes."  (Idem,  p.  475.)  14.  "Bat  not 
their  fees  for  church-preferments."  (Ibid.)  15.  "  Not  ambitious, 
as  appears  by  his  revising  a  cardinal's  cap  once  and  again  offered 
him."  (Idem,  p.  380.) 

Intellectuals. — 16,  "He  had  a  clear  judgment."  (Idem^ 
p.  477.)  17.  "  Of  a  firm  memory."  (Ibid.)  18.  "  One  of  the 
greatest  scholars  of  our  nation."  (Idem,  p.  472.)  19*  "  Having 
an  experimental  knowledge  of  all  conditions  of  clergymen."  (Idem^ 
p.  473.) 

Spibituals. — 20.  "  A  strict  observer  of  the  Lord's  day  in  his 
own  person."  (Idem,  p.  3770  21.  "  Moderate  in  pressing  the. 
Book  of  Sports  in  his  own  diocess."  f /(fom,  p*  378.)  22.  "A 
worthy  instrument  in  moving  king  Charles  to  so  pious  a  work  as  the 
restoring  of  the  Irish  impropriations."  (Idem,  p.  379.) 

Thus  I  did  write  in  his  due  praise  as  much  as  I  durst;  and 
though  less  than  his  friends  expected,  more  than  I  am  thanked  for. 
All  I  will  add  is  this :  Seeing  his  head  was  cut  off  by  the  axe,  it 
had  been  madness  in  me  to  run  my  neck  into  the  halter,  in  taxing 
those  of  cnielty  and  injustice  who  caused  his  execution.     . 

Da.  Hbylin.— -And  so  I  leave  him  to  his  rest,  in  the  bosom  of 
Abraham,  in  the  land  of  the  living. 

T    T 

.   Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


642  APPEAL  OF  INJURKD  INNOCBNCE.  PART  III. 

FuLLSE.— '^  Bosom  of  Abiahftm  ^  ia  a  acriptare^expression,  to 
ugnify  the  repose  of  the  souls  of  such  saints  ifho  departed  this  life 
before  the  ascension  of  our  Sayioor  into  heaven.  Wherever  ^^  tLe 
bosom  of  Abraham  ''^  be,  it  is  good  to  be  there ;  and  hence  it  is 
frequently  used  by  the  Fathers  to  denote  the  happy  conditioo  eTen 
of  such  who  departed  in  the  faith  since  Clirist's  ascensioi^.  Quic- 
quid  ittud  eti^  saith  St.  Augustine,  quod  itto  sifnificatur  sinu^  ibi 
Nebridius  meus  vivii^  dulcU  amicui  mew.*  For  the  main,  it  is  a 
synonymon  with  heaven,  and  probably  all  the  persons  therein  are 
receptive  of  a  higher  degree  of  glory  after  the  day  of  judgment. 

^^  Land  of  the  living^  is  an  Old-Testament  phrase ;  which  some 
narrow-breasted  commentators  have  confined  to  temporal  happiness, 
but  importeth  much  more,  in  my  opinion,  even  final  felicity;  as 
may  appear  by  David  ^s  expression :  ^^  I  had  fainted  unless  I  had 
believed  to  see  the  goodness  of  the  L<Mrd  inths  land  of  the  living^ 
Psalm  zxvii.  13. 

I  have  staid  the  longer  in  the  stating  of  these  two  expressions, 
that  I  may  the  more  safely  and  sincerely  concur,  as  I  do,  with  the 
Animadvertor^'s  charity  in  the  final  estate  of  this  prelate:  with 
whbse  memory  my  pen  here  makes  no  truce,  but  a  perfect  peace, 
never  hereafter  to  let  the  least  disgmcefiil  drop  of  ink  to  fall 
upon  it. 

Dr.  Hbylin. — ^Fromthe  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  I  should  proceed 
to  Dr.  Williams,  archbishop  of  York ;  but  that  I  must  first  remove  a 
block  which  lies  in  my  way.  Our  author,  having  told  us  of  the  making 
and  printing  the  Directory,  is  not  content  to  let  us  see  the  cold  enter- 
tainment which  it  found  when  it  came  abroad,  but  lets  us  see  it  in  such 
terms  as  we  did  not  look  for. 

Fuller. — This  block  is  no  bigger  than  a  straw,  so  that  a  flea 
may  leap  over  it :  but  the  Animadvertor  is  pleased  to  see  all  things 
through  a  magnifying  glass,  as  will  appear  hereafter. 

320.  Dr.  Hetlin. — ^  Such,"  saith  he,  "  was,  call  it  constancy  or 
obstinacy,  love  or  doting,  of  the  generality  of  the  nation,  on  the  Com- 
mon Prayer,  that  the  Parliament  found  it  fit,  yea,  necessary,  to  back 
their  former  Ordinance  with  a  second."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  liL  p.  481.) 
Assuredly,  ^'the  generality  of  the  people  of  England"  is  much  behold- 
ing to  our  author,  for  making  question,  whether  their  adhering  to  the 
Liturgy,  thei^  by  law  established,  were  not  to  be  imputed  rather  to 
^'  obstinacy  i^id  doting,"  than  to  '4ove  and  constancy." 

Fuller, — It  is  no  question  in  my  jud'ffTnent  or  conscience  when 
it  is  out  of  all  question,  as  either  never  started  or  soon  decided 

•  OtmfetHones,  Ub.  is.  cap.  8, 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XL     643 

therein  ;  but  a  question  it  is  in  the  practice  of  our  distracted  age^ 
which  I  behold  like  the  city  of  Ephesus  :  "  Some  cried  one  thing, 
some  another,  for  the  assembly  was  confused,^  Acts  xix.  32.  Till 
this  tumult  be  appeased,  I  desire  to  stand  by  in  silence,  and  give 
every  man  his  own  words.  Some  call  "  constancy  and  love,^^  which 
side  I  do  seem  secretly  to  favour,  for  giving  it  the  upper  hand,  and 
naming  it  in  the  first  place.  Others  call  it  "  obstinacy  and  doting,*** 
as  they  are  severally  persuaded.*  What  is  my  offence,  or  where  is 
the  block  the  Animadvertor  complaineth  of,  as  if  he  needed  to  call 
for  levers  to  remove  it  ? 

321.  D^.  HEYLiN.-^The  Liturgy  had  been  looked  on  as  a  great 
blessing  of  God  upon  this  nation,  by  "  the  generality  of  people,"  for 
the  space  of  fouiEfcore  years  and  upwards;  they  found  it  established 
by  the  law,  sealed  by  the  blood  of  those  that  made  it,  confirmed  by 
many  godly  and  religious  princes ;  and  had  almost  no  other  form  of 
making  their  ordinary  addresses  to  Almighty  Grod,  but  what  was  taught 
them  in  the  Book  of  Common  Prayer.  And  could  any  discreet  man 
think,  or  wise  man  hope,  that  a  Form  of  Prayer,  so  universally 
received,  and  so  much  esteemed,  could  be  laid  by  without  reluctancy 
in  those  who  had  been  so  long  accustomed  to  it  ?  or  called  "  obstinacy 
or  doting"  in  them,  if  they  did  not  presently  submit  to  every  new 
nothing,  which,  in  the  name  of  the  then-disputable  authority,  should 
be  laid  before  them !  And  though  our  author  doth  profess,  that,  in  the 
agitating  of  this  controversy  ^ro  and  con^  he  will  reserve  his  private  opi- 
nion to  himself;  yet  he  discovers  it  too  plainly  in  the  present  passage. 
Qiuid  verba  audiam,  cum  facta  videam  ?  is  a  good  rule  here.  He 
must  needs  show  his  private  opinion  in  this  point,  (say  he  what  he 
can,)  who  makes  a  question,  whether  the  adhesion  of  the  people 
generally  to  the  public  Liturgy  were  built  on  "  obstinacy  and  doting," 
or  on  "  love  and  constancy." 

PuLLEE. — I  concur  with  the  Animadvertor  in  his  encomiastic 
expressions  on  the  Common  Prayer.  Otherwise,  nothing  new 
occurs  in  this,  which  was  not  in  the  former  paragraph.  And,  there- 
fore, the  blow  being  the  same,  (only  laid  on  with  a  little  more 
eagerness,)  I  conceive  the  same  guard  will  serve  to  defend  it,  with- 
out any  further  repetition. 

Dn.  Heylin. — But,  if  it  must  be  ^'  obstinacy  or  doting  in  the 
generality  of  people,"  to  adhere  so  cordially  imto  the  Book  of  Com- 
nion  Prayer,  I  marvel  what  it  must  be  called  in  Stephen  Marshall  of 
Essex,  (that  great  bell-wether,  for  a  time,  of  the  Presbyterians,)  who, 
having  had  a  chief  hand  in  compiling  the  Directory,  did,  notwithstand- 
ing, marry  his  own  daughter  by  the  form  prescribed  in  the  Common- 
Prayer  Book ;  and,  having  so  done,  paid  down  five  pounds  immedi- 
ately to  the  churchwardens  of  the  parish,  as  the  fine  or  forfeiture  for 
using  any  other  form  of  marriage  than  that  of  the  Directory.     The 

2x2 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ  IC 


644  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  IIL 

Kke  to  which  (I  hare  credibly  been  informed)  was  done  by  Mr. 
Knightly  of  Fawsley,  on  the  like  occasion,  and  probably  by  many 
others  of  the  same  strain  also. 

Fuller. — AH  this  is  nothing  to  me,  who  am  not  bonnd  to 
answer  for  the  actions  of  other  men.  I  know  there  was  in  England 
a  juncture  of  time,  which  in  this  point  may  be  compared  to  tbe 
evening  twilight ;  so  called  from  twalight^  or  "  double  light,*^ — the 
one  of  the  day  not  wholly  gone  down,  the  other  of  the  candle  but 
newly  set  up.  Such  the  creptucidum  tegpertinum  in  out  land,  when  the 
day  of  the  Liturgy  yet  dimly  shined,  and  the  candle  of  the  Direc- 
tory was  also  lighted  ;  a  short  candle,  which  presently  burnt  down 
to  the  socket.  It  is  possible,  that,  in  this  co-incidence,  some,  in 
majorem  cautelam^  twisted  the  Liturgy  and  Directory  together,  as 
since  some  have  joined  to  both,  marriage  by  a  Justice  of  Peace ; 
that  so  a  threefold  cable  might  not  be  broken.  Let  them  which 
best  can,  give  an  account  of  their  own  carriage  herein. 

Dn.  Heylin.— -With  the  like  ferour  he  beholds  the  two  Universi- 
ties, as  he  does  the  Liturgy ;  and  hard  it  is  to  say  which  he  injureth 
most. 

Fuller.-*-!  injure  neither  of  them*.  But  in  this  passage,  the 
Animadvertor  only  whets  his  sword,  and  I  scour  my  shield,  pre- 
paring against  his  deadly  blow  in  the  next  paragraph. 

322.  D«.  Heylin.— And,  First,  beginning  with  Oxford,  he  lets  us 
knew,  that  "  lately  certain  delegates  from  the  University  of  Oxford 
pleaded  their  privil^es  before  the  Committee  of  Parliament,  that  thej 
were  only  yisitable  by  the  king,  and  such  who  should  be  deputed  by 
him.  But  their  allegations  were  not  of  proof  against  the  paramount 
power  of  Parliament ;  the  rather  because  a  passage  in  an  article  at 
the  rendition  of  Oxford  was  urged  against  them,  wherein  they  were 
subjected  to  such  a  Tisitation."  (Ch.  Hist.  rol.  iii.  pp.  493,  494.)  Our 
author  here  subjects  the  University  of  Oxford  to  the  power  of  the 
Parliament,  and  that  not  only  in  regard  of  that  paramount  power 
which  he  ascribes  unto  the  Parliament,  that  is  to  say,  the  two  Houses 
of  Parliament,  (for  so  we  are  to  understand  him,)  above  all  Estates ; 
but  also  in  regard  of  "  an  article  concerning  the  surrendry  of  Oxford, 
by  which  that  University  was  subjected  to  such  visitations." 

Fuller. — When  I  see  a  corslet  shot  through  with  a  musket- 
bullet,  and  the  person  wounded  that  wore  it,  I  may  safely  say,  that 
corslet  is  not  of  proof  against  the  musket.  So  when  I  behold  the 
pleadings  of  the  Delegates  neglected  and  nulled,  I  may  say,  that 
de  facto  they  were  not  of  proof  against  parliamentary  power.  A  pas- 
sage possibly  written  by  me,  (such  my  affection  to  my  aunt  Oxford,) 
with  more  ^rief  than  it  is  read  by  the  Animadvertor  with  an^er;. 


Digiti 


zed  by  Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.      645 

but  truth  is  truth,  whether  it  be  written  by  one  sighing  or  singing ; 
read  **  by  one  smiling  or  frowning.'" 

The  reader  needs  no  interpreter  to  expound  the  word  "Parlia- 
ment,'' as  taken  generally,  at  this  time,  (success  having  beaten  the 
sense  thereof  into  men's  heads,)  for  "  the  two  Houses."  Loqui 
cum  ttulgo  in  this  case,  I  hope  is  no  feult.  These  "  two  Houses  " 
at  this  time  maintained  thisir  enthymeme  to  be  a  complete  syllogism^ 
concluding  all  persons  under  them  ;  presuming  that  the  king,  though 
not  personally,  was  virtually  with  them :  a  position  which  I  have  no 
calling  to  examine.  As  for  the  clause  in  the  article  which  hooked 
the  University  underparliamentary  visitation,  hear  how  the  Animad-r 
vertor  reports  it. 

Dr.  Heyitn.— I  find,  indeed,  that  it  was  agreed  on  by  the  Commis- 
sioners on  both  sides  touching  the  surrendry  of  that  city :  **  That  the 
Chancellor,  Masters,  and  Scholars  of  the  University  of  Oxon,  and  the 
Governors  and  Students  of  Christ-church  of  king  Henry  the  eighth's 
foundation,  and  all  other  Heads  and  Governors,  Masters,  Fellows,  and 
Scholars  of  the  Colleges,  HaUs,  and  bodies  corporate,  and  societies  of 
the  same  University,  and  the  public  Professors  and  Readers,  and  the 
Orator  thereof,  and  all  other  persons  belonging  to  the  said  University, 
or  to  any  Colleges  or  Halls  therein,  shall  and  may,  according  to  their 
statutes,  charters,  and  customs,  enjoy  their  ancient  form  of  government,, 
subordinate  to  the  immediate  authority  and  power  of  Parliament."  * 
But  I  find  not,  that  any  of  the  Heads  or  Delegates  of  that  University 
were  present  at  the  making  of  this  article,  or  consented  to  it,  or 
thought  themselves  obliged  by  any  thing  contained  in  it. 

Fuller. — This  last  clause  was  eagerly  urged  by  the  Committee 
against  the  Delegates  of  the  University;  and  I  could  wish  they 
could  as  easily  have  untied  the  knot,  as  answered  the  hardest  objec- 
tion of  Bellarmine  in  the  Divinity-Schools.  The  king,  when  pri- 
vately departing  Oxford,  left,  if  not  a  Commii^sion,  atlieast  leave,  with 
the  Lords,  to  make  as  good  terms  for  themselves,  and  all  with  them 
in  the  city  besieged,  as  the  enemy  would  give,  and  they  could  get,  in, 
that  straitened  condition.  The  University  therefore  was  urged  by 
the  Committee  to  have  given  an  implicit  consent  to  these  Articles ;, 
and,  enjoying  the  benefit,  they  must  share  in  the  burden  thereofc 
To  this  the  Delegates  made  many  fair  and  civil  answers,  strength- 
ened with  law  and  reason :  but,  das  !  great  are  the  odds,  though 
learning  be  the  Answerer,  where  power  is  the  Opponent. 

Dr.  HEYLiN.-^Nor  indeed  could  it  stand  with  reason,  that  they 
should  wave  the  patronage  of  a  gracious  sovereign,  who  had  been  ''  a 
nursiDg  father  "  to  them,  and  put  themselves  under  the  arbitrary  powe;^ 

•  Article  xiU. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


646  APP£AL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  III. 

of  those  who  ihey  knew  minded  nothing  but  dertmction  towaid  them. 
And  that  the  Uniyenity  did  not  think  itself  obliged  by  any  thing  con- 
tained in  that  article,  appears  eren  by  onr  aathor  himself,  who  tells  us 
in  this  yery  passage,  that  **  the  Dd^^tes  from  the  Unirersity  pleaded 
their  priyileges  before  the  Committee  of  Parliament,  that  they  were 
only  Tisitable  by  the  king,  and  snch  as  should  be  deputed  by  him ;" 
which  certainly  they  had  nerer  done,  (unless  onr  author  will  oondude 
them  to  be  fools  ex  madmen,)  had  they  before  submitted  to  that  ^^para- 
mount power"  which  he  ascribes  unto  the  Houses.  Nor  did  the 
Houses  of  Ptoriiament  find  themselTes  empowered,  by  this  dause  of 
the  article,  to  obtrude  any  such  Tisitation  on  them*  And  therefim 
when  the  Delates  had  pleaded  and  prored  their  piiTil^es,  a  Com- 
mission for  a  Tisitation  was  issued  by  the  two  Houses  of  Parliamoit  in 
the  name  of  the  king,  but  under  the  new  Broad  Seal  which  themsdres 
had  made ;  which  notwithstanding,  the  UniTendty  stood  still  on  their 
own  defence,  in  regard  that  though  the  kingf  s  name  was  used  in  that 
Commission,  yet  they  knew  well,  that  he  had  nerer  giren  his  OQnaent 
unto  it  Whereupon  followed  that  great  alteration^  both  in  the  Heads 
and  Members  of  most  Colleges  which  our  author  speaks  o£ 

FuLLSR.^-The  Animadvertor  endeavours  to  run  me  on  one  of 
these  dangerous  rocks,— either  to  condemn  the  University  for  fools 
and  madmen,  whom  I  love  and  honour  for  wise  and  sober  persons ; 
or  else  to  make  me  incur  the  displeasure  of  the  Parliament.  And 
the  philosopher's  answer  to  the  emperor  is  well  known  :  ^^  That  it 
is  ill  disputing  with  them  that  can  command  legions.^  The  best 
is,  I  am  not  bound  to  answer  to  this  dangerous  dilemma,  keeping 
myself  close  to  my  calling ;  namely,  reporting  what  was  done,— 
but  whether  justly  or  unjustly,  let  others  decide. 

The  Animadvertor's  boldness  herein  is  for  me  to  admire,  not 
imitate.  When  an  old  man  was  demanded  the  cause  of  his  con- 
fidence, how  he  durst  so  freely  tell  a  king  of  his  faults,  he  rendered 
a  double  reason  of  his  boIdness,«-or6«^a«  et  senectus  ;  one,  that  he 
had  no  children^  and,  therefore,  careless  to  preserve  posterity ;  the 
other,  that  he  teas  eoctremdy  oldy  therefore,  less  curious  to  keep  that 
life  that  was  leaving  him. 

How  it  fiireth  with  the  Animadvertor  in  these  two  particulars,  I 
know  not ;  sure  I  am  for  myself,  that  I  am  not  so  old  to  be  weary 
of  the  world,  as  I  hope  it  is  not  of  me ;  and,  God  having  given 
me  children,  I  will  not  destroy  them,  and  hazard  myself,  by  running 
into  needless  dangers.    And  let  this  suffice  for  an  answer. 

323.  Dr.  Hetlin. — ^Nor  deals  he  much  more  candidly  in  relating 
the  proceedings  of  the  Visitation  which  was  made  in  Cambridge ;  the 
Visitors  whereof  (as  acting  "  by  the  paramount  power  of  Parliament") 
he  more  sensibly  favoureth  than  the  poor  sufferers,  or  "malignant 
members,"  as  he  calls  thcm^  of  that  University. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  X|.      647 

PcjLLKB. — Th€  Animadvertor  sees  more  in  me  than  I  can  see  in 
myself;  and  because  we  are  both  parties  engaged,  (the  less  to  be 
credited  in  onr  own  cause,)  be  it  reported  to  the  reader,  if  pleased 
to  peruse  the  conclusion  of  my  "  History  of  Cambridge,**'  whether 
I  cast  not  my  grains  of  fevour  into  the  scales  of  the  poor  sufferers. 
These  I  call  not  ''  malignant  members,^  but  with  this  qualification, 
^'  so  termed.''^  *  And  let  not  me  be  condemned  for  the  ill  language 
of  others. 

I  say  again,  As  (as  an  Historian)  I  have  favoured  no  side,  but 
told  the  truth  ;  so  I  could  not  so  far  unman  myself,  but  that,  for 
liumanity'*s  sake,  (to  say  no  more,)  I  did  pity  the  sufferers;  on 
which  account  I  incurred  the  displeasure  of  the  opposite  party. 
The  best  is,  causeless  anger,  being  an  edgeless  sword,  I  fear  it  tlie 
less. 

Dr.  Hetlin. — For  whereas  the  author  of  the  book  called  Querela 
Cantabrigiensis  hath  told  us  of  "  an  oath  of  discovery,"  obtruded  by 
the  Visitors  upon  several  persons,  whereby  they  were  sworn  to  detect 
one  another,  even  their  dearest  friends ;  our  author,  who  was  out  of 
the  storm,  seeming  not  satisfied  in  the  truth  of  this  relation,  must 
write  to  Mr.  Ash,  who  was  one  of  those  Visitors,  to  be  informed  in 
that  which  he  knew  before.t 

Fuller. — No  person  more  proper  or  probable  to  inform  me 
herein  than  Mr.  Ash,  one  of  the  Visitors ;  who,  I  believed,  did 
both  know  the  truth,  and  would  not  tell  a  falsehood  herein.  I  was 
so  fat  from  desiring  information  in  what  (as  the  Animadvertor  saith} 
I  "  knew  before,"'  that  I  protest  /  know  it  not  yet^  being  left  in  such 
a  mist  about  this  "  oath  of  discovery." 

On  the  one  side,  my  worthy  friend,  Mr.  Peter  Gunning,  Fellow 
of  Clare-Hall,  (eminent  for  his  learning  and  honesty,)  hath  since 
assured  me  that  such  an  oath  was  offered  and  urged  upon  him  by 
the  Committee.  On  the  other  side,  I  am,  on  just  grounds,  daily 
confirmed  in  my  confidence,  that  neither  the  earl  of  Manchester, 
nor  any  under  him,  by  his  command  or  consent,  enforced  such  an 
oath.  So  that  where  to  lay  the  blaihe,  I  know  not ;  and  have 
neither  list  nor  leisure  further  to  inquire;  who,  having  *  blistered 
my  fingers  already,  will  bum  my  hands  no  more  in  so  dangerous  a 
subject.     Our  author  proceeds  : — 

Dr.  Heylin. — And,  on  the  reading  of  Mr.  Ash's  answer,  declares 
expressly,  that  "no  such  oath  was  tendered  by  him  to  that  Uni- 
verity."  But,  First,  Mr.  Ash  doth  not  absolutely  deny  that  there  was 
any  such  o.ath,  but  [[says]  that  he  was  **  a  stranger  to  it : "  and  possibly 

•  "History  of  Cambridge,"  page  285.  t  Ideniy  ibidem. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


648  A?PEAL  OF  INJURBD  INNOCENCE.  PART  III. 

he  might  he  to  far  a  stmnger  to  it  as  not  to  he  an  actor  in  that  part  of 
the  tiBg^j.  Secondly.  Mr.  Ash  onl j  saith^  that  he  ^  cannot  call  to 
mind  that  any  such  diing  was  moved  hy  the  earl  of  Manchester;" 
and  yet,  I  trow,  such  a  thing  might  he  moved  hy  the  earl  of  Manches- 
ter, though  Mr.  Ash,  after  so  many  years,  was  willing  not  to  call  it  to 
mind.  Or  else,  if  no  such  oath  was  tendered  hy  him,  as  our  author  \& 
assured  there  was  not,  that  part  of  the  tragedy  might  he  acted  hy  Mr. 
Good,  the  other  chaplain,  without  coiomunicating  his  instructions  to 
his  Fellow-Yisitor. 

FuLLElt.— Mr.  Ash,  on  serious  and  solemn  recollection,  hath 
since  given  me  assurance,  both  by  his  word  of  mouth  and  writing, 
that  no  such  oath  was  urged,  to  his  knowledge ;  and,  being  a 
minister  of  the  gospel,  I  am,  in  charity  and  conscience,  bound  to 
believe  him. 

Dr.  Heylin. — ^And,  therefore,  Jhirdly,  I  would  know  why  Mr. 
Good  was  not  writ  to  also,  that,  having  from  him  the  like  certLQcate, 
our  author  might  have  had  the  better  grounds  for  his  unbelief,  before 
he  had  pronounced  so  positively  against  the  author  of  that  Querela. 

PuLLEE.-*-.The  reason  was,  because  Mr.  Good  was  dead,  and 
(had  I  known  whither)  I  did  not  know  by  what  carrier  to  convey 
my  letter  unto  him.  I  pronounced  not  positively  against  Querela^ 
in  point  of  the  oath,  which  I  left  under  very  vehement  suspicions. 

Dr.  Hbtlin. — ^Fourthly,  and  finally.  It  is  not  easy  to  be  thonght, 
that  the  author  of  that  book  should  have  vented  such  a  manifest  false- 
hood, especially  in  a  matter  so  derogatory  to  all  Christian  chafity; 
and  that  neither  the  earl  of  Manchester,  nor  either  of  his  two  chap- 
lains, or  any  friends  of  theirs,  should,  in  the  space  of  ten  years 
aiid  more,  endeavour  to  wipe  off  such  an  odious  imputation,  till  our 
author,  out  of  pure  zeal  to  ^*  the  paramount  power,"  played  the  ad?o^ 
cate  in  it. 

FuLLEE. — I  will  freely  give  all  my  fees,  for  my  advocation,  to 
the  Animadyertor ;  and  will  thi^ik  him  too,  if  he  will  be  pleased' to 
take  them  from  me  to  himself.  It  seems,  I  did  not  my  work  well, 
who  )iad  nothing  but  displeasure  for  my  wages. 

Possibly  the  earl  of  Manchestef  might  not  know,  that  the  uiglng 
of  such  an  oath  was  objected  against  him  and  his ;  and  probably,  if 
he  did  know,  he  satisfied  himself  iu  his  own  integrity  and  inno^ 
cence,  leaving  the  blame  ftn4  shame  to  fidl  on  such  as  were  guilty 
thereo^^ 

324.  Dr.  Hetlin. — But  to  return  again  to  Oxford:  One  of  the 
first  effects  which  followed  on  the  alteration  before  remembered, 
(though  mentioned  by  our  author  in  another  place,)  was  the  rifling  of 
the  treasury  in  Magdalen-CoUege,  of  which  he  tells  us,  that  "a con- 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH  HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.      649 

siderable  sum  of  gold,  being  by  Dr.  Humphrey  "  (who  had  beeli  Master 
of  that  College)  ^  left  in  a  chest,  not  to  be  opened,  except  some  great 
necessity  urged  thereunto,  was  lately  shared  between  Dr.  Wilkinson" 
(who  then  held  the  place  of  President  by  the  power  of  the  Visitors) 
"  and  the  Fellows  there."  (Ch.  Hist.  rol.  iii.  p.  263.)  But,  First,  our 
author  is  mistaken  in  Dr.  Humphrey,  though  he  be  willing  to  entitle 
him  (whom  he  calls  *'  a  moderate  Nonconformist ")  to  some  benefac- 
tion. The  sum  there  found  amounted  to  aboTe  twelre  hundred  double 
pistolets,  the  old  Doctor  haying  no  fewer  than  one  hundred  for  his 
part  of  the  spoil,  and  erery  Fellow  thirty  arpiece  for  theirs ;  each 
pistolet  exchanged  at  sixteen  shillings  six  pence,  and  yet  the  exchanger 
got  well  by  the  bargain  too.  Too  great  a  sum  for  Dr.  Himiphrey, 
(who  had  many  children,  and  no  proyident  woman  to  his  wife,)  to 
leave  behind  him  to  the  College,  had  he  been  so  minded.  The  money 
(as  the  tradition  went  in  that  College)  was  left  there  by  the  Founder, 
to  remedy  and  repair  such  ruins  as  either  the  casualty  of  fire,  or  the 
ravages  of  a  civil  war,  might  bring  upon  it ;  to  which  the  nature  of 
the  coin,  being  all  French  pieces,  (remember  that  the  English  at  that 
time  were  masters  of  a  great  part  of  France,)  gives  a  further  testi- 
mony.       ^ 

Fuller. — ^As  I  have  been  mistaken  in  the  person,  Dr.  Hum- 
phrey, for  bishop  Wainefleet,  donor  of  this  gold,  (following  com- 
mon report  therein,)  so  I  could  heartily  have  wished  I  had  also 
erred  in  the  thing  itself;  I  mean,  that  an  amotion  of  such  devoted 
treasure  had  never  been  done. 

The  Animadvertor  might  well  have  forborne  his  sparring  at  the 
precious  memory  of  that  learned  and  pious  Dr,  Humphrey.  And 
the  new  mention  of  his  name  roindeth  me  of  an  old  faulty  which  the 
Animadvertor  not  long  since  laid  to  my  charge ;  namely,  my  calling 
of  Thomas  Bentham,  (the  Dean^  saith  he,  of  Magdalen's,  Oxford,) 
the  Censor  thereof.  Whereas  I  exactly  followed  the  words  of  Dr. 
Humphrey,  in  his  Latin  "  Life  of  Jewel,**  page  73 :  Thomas 
£entham]i8y  quamim  censor,  eo  anno,  Sfc.  And  I  humbly  con- 
ceive, that  I,  having  so  good  a  precedent  as  Dr.  Humphrey,  presi' 
dent  of  that  College,  I  might  as  well  call  their  dean,  censor  in 
English,  as  he  doth  in  Latin. 

Dr.  Heylin.— Secondly.  I  would  have  our  author  observe,  that 
those  whom  he  accuseth  of  this  act  of  rapine  were  neither  ^^  high 
royalists,"  nor  "  covetous  conformists,"  as  we  know  who  words  it ;  but 
men  agreeable  to  the  times,  and  of  the  same  temper  and  affections 
which  himself  is  of:  *^  the  conformists  "  never  being  so  "  coyetous  "  as 
to  cast  an  eye  towards  it,  nor  the  "  high  royalists  "  so  ignoble  in  their 
greatest  extremities  as  to  lay  hands  on  it. 

Fuller.— -If  I  be  one  of  their  persuasion  who  shared  this  gold, 
(and  I  must  be  so  because  the  Animadvertor  doth  say  it,)  I  have 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


650  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCSNCB.       PART  III. 

acquitted  myself  a  fiuthfxil  historian,  in  not  consulting  my  own 
party'^s  credit;  but  unpartially  reporting  the  trutb.  However,  I 
bope  Ood  will  keep  my  bands,  tbat  my  fingers  shall  not  have  the 
GUILT  of  the  gold  of  Tholouse. 

Db.  Hnruif.— And,  Thirdly,  I  must  needs  ebarge  our  author  with 
some  partiality  in  aggrayating  this  fact  (which  indeed  cannot  be 
excused)  with  so  many  circumstances,  and  passing  otct  the  like  at 
Gambridge,  as  a  thing  incredible.  ^  I  cannot  belieTe,"  saitb  he,  (Hist 
of  Cambridge,  p.  61,)  ^  what  I  bare  read  in  the  Querela  CaHiabrigi" 
entUy  that  three  or  four  hundred  pounds'  worth  of  timbor,  brouf^t  to 
dare-Hall,  for  the  repair  of  that  House,  was  lately  taken  away ; "  tiiat 
is  to  say,  inrerted  to  the  use  of  some  priyate  persons,  whom  our  author 
hath  blended  with  this  increduli^. 

FuLLBR.«-I  did  not  i^igravate  the  fiict,  nor  heavily  lean  on  my 
pen  in  relating  this  passage,  nor  laid  more  weight  thereon  than 
merely  to  make  it  cast  ink.  The  Animadvertor  hath  more  bitter- 
ness wrapped  up  in  this  one  word  '*  rapine,^  than  I  have  stretched 
out  in  all  my  relation  of  this  accident.  ^ 

Dr.  Hbtldv.— Nay,  so  extremely  favourable  he^  to  his  friends  in 
Gambridge  as  to  profess,  that,  '^had  he  seen  it,  he  would  not  have 
believed  his  own  eyes  ;*  which  is  the  highest  point  of  partiality  and 
most  invincible  unbelief  that  I  ever  met  with. 

Fuller. — Herein  the  Animadvertor  is  highly  just  (to  say  no 
more)  unto  me.  Is  it  not  cruelty  to  such  as  write  in  distracted 
times,  and  are  as  desirous  to  impart  dangerous  truths  to  posterity, 
so  also  to  secure  themselves,  (as  who  can  blame  them  ?)  as  well  as 
they  may,  to  hunt  them  out  of  the  covert  of  any  figurative  or  wary 
expression?  But  "none  so  deaf  as  he  who  will  not  hear;''  I 
mean,  as  to  understand.  The  Animadvertor  knew  my  expression 
pointed  at  some  too  high  for  me  safely  to  jeach. 

Know,reader,  that  what  need  (as  pleaded)  in  time  of  war  took 
from  Clare-Hall,  that  conscience  in  the  same  person  hath  since 
restored  to  the  full ;  as  Dr.  Dillingham,  my  worthy  friend,  and 
Master  of  the  College,  hath  informed  me.  Now,  though  Oxford 
challengeth  antiquity  to  go  before  Cambridge,  yet  herein  let  her 
not  disdain  to  come  after  her,  and  to  follow  so  good  an  example  of 
restitution :  for  though  I  have  heard,  and  partly  believe,  that  Dr. 
Wilkinson  did  with  might  and  main  oppose  the  seizure  on  that 
gold ;  and  though  they  say  it  appeared,  when  seriously  examined 
by  the  Visitors,  that  it  was  not  so  foul  a  fact  as  generally  it  is 
represented ;  yet  it  cannot  in  all  particulars  be  excused,  and  therein 
I  concur  with  the  Animadvertor.     So  that  Jacob's  counsel  to  his 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THB  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.      661 

sons  may  here  be  seasonably  prescribed :  '^  Carry  the  money  back 
again,  peiadventure  it  was  an  oversight^^  Gen,  xliii.  12. 

Dr.  Heylin. — There  remains  nothing  now  to  conclude  these  Ani- 
madyersions,  hut  some  passages  relating  to  archUshop  Williams:  ia 
which  I  must  confess  myself  not  willing  to  meddle,  but  that  I  think  it 
is  as  much  against  the  rule  of  distributive  justice  to  give  one  man  too 
much,  as  to  giro  another  man  too  little.  Let  us  see  therefore  what  he 
saith  of  this  prelate,  and  how  far  he  saith  truth,  the  whole  truth,  and 
nothing  but  the  truth.    And  first,  saith  he, — 

Fuller. — ^The  truth  hereof  will  soon  appear  by  the  sequel. 
For  if  the  Animadvertor  shall  inflame  his  smoking  feults,  hollow 
in  the  ears  of  every  dormant  suspicion,  to  awaken  it  against  the 
memory  of  this  prelate,  yea,  and  hang  the  weight  of  his  greatest 
guiltiness  on  the  wires  of  the  slenderest  proof;  then,  notwithstand- 
ing this  his  plausibility  to  the  contrary  premised,  he  will  plainly 
appear  to  have  a  pike  (the  sharpness  whereof  his  death  hath  not 
blunted)  against  him. 

When  one  was  to  preach  the  funeral  sermon  of  a  most  vicious 
and  generally-hated  person,  all  wondered  what  he  would  say  in  his 
praise;  the  preacher's  friends  fearing — ^his  foes  hoping — ^that,  for 
his  fee,  he  would  force  his  conscience  to  flattery.  "For  one 
thing,''  said  the  minister,  "  this  man  is  to  be  spoken  well  of  by  all ; 
and  for  another  thing  he  is  to  be  spoken  ill  of  by  none.  The  first 
is.  Because  God  made  him  ;  the  second.  Because  he  is  dead." 

Now,  seeing,  besides  the  premisses  common  to  all  Christians,  yea> 
to  all  men,  many  worthy  works  have  been  done  by  the  bishop ;  and 
especially,  seeing  known  animosities  were  betwixt  him  and  the 
Animadvertor,  (which  with  ingenuity  is  an  wrep-super^oyex-comr 
.manding  motive  to  silence,)  the  Animadvertor  had  better  have 
forborne  all  which  foUoweth,  in  my  judgment,  and  in  the  judgment 
of  as  many  "  learned  and  religious  men,  of  all  orders  and  degrees  in 
both  Universities,"  as  ever  solicited  him  to  write  against  my  Church- 
History. 

325, 326.  Dr.  Hbylin.— "  He  sueth  to  the  Parliament  fi)r  favour, 
and  obtained  it ;  whose  general  in  a  manner  he  becomes  in  laying 
siege  to  the  town  and  castle  of  Aberconway,"  &c.  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii* 
p.  487.)  This  is  the  truth ;  but  whether  it  be  the  whole  truth  or  not, 
I  do  more  than  doubt.  His  ^^  suing  for  and  obtaining  pardon  from  the 
Parliament"  precedeth,  in  the  order  of  time,  his  being  their  general ; 
and  therefore  it  is  not  to  be  thought  but  that  he  had  done  some  special 
service  to  the  Parliament  to  prepare  the  way  for  such  a  favour.  Before 
his  commitment  to  the  Tower  about  the  bishops'  protestation,  he  was 
grown  as  odious  to  the  Commons,  as  before  he  had  been  honoured  by 


Digitized  by 


L^oogle 


652  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  III. 

them.    He  had  liyed  some  time  with  the  king  at  Oxford,  and  is  said 
to  hare  done  him  good  services  in  Wales ;  and  (which  is  most)  he  had 
a  &ir  temporal  estate,  ahle  to  yield  some  thousands  of  pounds  for  oom- 
position  in  CbldsmiUis'  HalL     So  that  there  must  he  somewhat  in  it 
more  than  oidinaiy,  which  occaaoned  that  he  neither  came  under  fine 
nor  ransom,  as  the  rest  of  the  kingf  s  party  did.     But  what  that  mras, 
whether  he  senred  them  with  intelligence  when  he  was  at  Oxford,  or  by 
inhibiting  his  tenants  and  neighbours  to  pay  their  accustomed  taxes  to 
the  Jdug's  forces  when  he  lived  in  Wales,  I  determine  not.     Certain 
it  is,  that  before  his  redintegration  with  them,  he  had  been  in  a 
manner  besieged  in  his  house  of  Penryn  by  the  lord  Byron,  for  the 
prohibiting  of  sending-in  such  provisions  as  had  been  required ;  and 
that,  observing  vfith  what  carelessness  the  king's  soldiers  did  attend 
that  service,  he  caused  a  sally  to  be  made  out  of  the  house,  and  slew 
many  of  them.    Upon  the  merit  of  which  service,  and  the  promise  of 
greater,  it  is  no  wonder  if  such  ministers  and  solicitors  of  his  as  were 
employed  in  that  business,  compounded  for  him  without  fine,  though 
not  without  money.     That  which  our  author  tells  us  of  his  being  their 
general,  seems  to  have  been  fore-signified  some  five  or  six  years  before 
the  siege  of  Conway  Castle.     For  I  remember,  that,  about  such  time 
as  he  was  prisoner  in  the  Tower  with  the  rest  of  the  bishops,  his 
picture  vras  sold  commonly  in  black  and  white,  in  his   episcopal 
robes,  with  a  square  cap  on  his  head,  a  rest  in  his  hand,  a  musket 
on  his  shoulder,  and  a  bandelier  about  his  neck.     For  which  fancy 
at  that  time  I  could  .learn  no  reason,  though  he  came  up  to  it  at  the. 
last 

Fuller. — This  is  not  contradictory,  but  additory,  to  what  I 
have  written ;  an  additory  only  of  suggestions  and  suspicions,  no 
probations;  the  Aiiimadvertor'*s  arrow  coming  off  without  a  pile, 
when  he  saith,  "I  determine  not."^  I  had  thought,  when  this 
Doctor  Cathe&roB  (for  historical  matters)  had  so  solemnly  settled 
himself  in  the  chair,  that  we  should  have  heard  from  him  some  solid 
determination^  which  belike  he  dares  not  do :  and,  in  my  opinion,  it 
had  been  more  consonant  to  Christian  charity,  not  to  have  discussed 
what  he  could  not  decide  ;  seeing  matters  of  this  nature  are  to  be 
hunted  down,  or  else  it  is  best  they  be  never  started.  Is  this 
he  who  so  lately  professed  his  averseness  to  meddle  with  this  arch- 
bishop, and  i^  now  so  ready  to  run  out  against  him  on  all  occasions 
when  he  hardly  hath  half  an  errand  ^  and  rather  woM  than  om 
produce  any  certainty  in  his  suggestions  ? 

327.  Dr.  Heylin. — But  he  goes  on :  "  He  was  very  chaste  in  his 
conversation."  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  488.)  And  I  hope  so  too,  not- 
withstanding the  scandalous  reports  of  Weldon,  the  nameless  author 
aimed  at,  (in  the  following  words,)  in  his  pamphlet  called  "  the  Court 
of  King  James,"  and  some  vulgar  fames  or  hearsays  too  much  credited 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTOttY,  BOOK  XI.      653 

by  a  late  Historian.*  But  I  must  needs  say,  that  I  am  not  satisfied  in 
the  arguments  which  are  brought  to  prove  lU  Wilson,  in  his  unworthy 
^^  History  of  the  Reign  of  King  James,"  mdces  him  to  he  eunuchus  ab 
uieroy  "  an  eunuch  from  his  mother  s  womb."  The  author  of  the  pam- 
phlet, called  "the  Observator  observed^"  conceiyes  that  Wilson  went 
too  far  in  this  expression,  and  rather  thinks,  '*  that  he  contracted  some 
impotency  by  falling  on  a  stake  when  he  was  a  boy."  (Fol.  10.)  Our 
author  here  seems  to  incline  unto  this  last,  assuring  us  from  such 
^^  who  knew  the  privacies  and  casualties  of  his  infancy,  that  this  arch- 
bishop was  but  one  degree  removed  from  a  misogynist,  though,  to 
palliate  his  infirmity  to  noble  females,  he  was  most  complete  in  his 
courtly  addresses."  But,  First,  the  falsity  and  frivolousness  of  these 
defences  leave  the  poor  man  under  a  worse  suspicion  than  they  found 
hina  in.  His  manly  countenance,  together  with  his  masculine  voice, 
showed  plainly  that  he  was  no  eunuch ;  and  the  agreeableness  of  his 
conversation  with  the  female  sex  did  as  plainly  show,  that  he  was  no 
misogynist,  or  "  woman-hater."  And,  Secondly,  admitting  these  sur- 
mises to  be  true  and  real,  they  rather  serve  to  evidence  his  impotency 
thaa  to  prove-  his  chastity ;  it  being  no  chaJstity  in  that  man  to  abstain 
from  women,  who,  either  by  casualty  or  by  nature,  is  disabled  from 
such  copulations.  The  virtue  of  chastity  oonsisteth  rather  in  the 
integrity  of  the  soul,  than  the  mutilation  of  the  body ;  and  therefore 
more  to  be  ascribed  to  those  pious  men,  qui  salvia  oculis  feminam 
vident,  in  Tertullian  s  language,-  animo  adversus  libidinem  ccbco^  than 
to  the  old  philosopher,  who  put  out  his  eyes  to  avoid  temptations  of 
that  nature.t  So  that  if  this  be  all  which  they  have  to  say  for  the 
bishop's  chastity,  these  advocates  had  showed  more  wisdom  in  saying 
nothing,  than  speaking  so  little  to  the  purpose. 

Fuller. — I  am  sorry  to  see  the  memory  of  this  bishop,  since 
his  decease,  to  fall  on  a  sharper  stake  than  his  body  did  in  his 
infancy,  even  the  pen  of  the  Animadvertor.  I  confess,  chastity 
cannot  necessarily  be  concluded  from  natural  debility,  or  casual 
impotency ;  there  being  a  possibility  of  a  frying  heart  in  a  freezing 
body.  And  we  know  who  hath  written,  Ut  eunuchtis  qui  ampleo- 
titur  mrginem  et  gemity  Ecclus.  xxx.  20. 

The  casualty  of  his  infancy  was  by  me  mentioned,  and  cast  in  as 
Buper-pfrndiwrn^  or  "  over-weight,''  to  confirm  j8uch  as  were  persuaded 
before  in  his  chastity,  which  was  never  called  into  question  by  any 
person  of  credit.  As  for  atdiciM  e  coquind^  **  the  courtier  out  of  the 
kitchen,''  pretending  himself  such  a  master  of  defence  in  all  court- 
controversies,  such  as  have  perused  his  book  will  find  cause  to  say 
of  him,  Expectam  lanistam ;  iweeni  scvrrcmiy  rabulam^  lixam. 

The  conversableness  of  this  bishop  with  women  consisted  "chiefly 
(if  not  only)  in   his  treatments   of  great  ladies  and  persons  of 

•  «  History  of  King  Charlea,"  fol.  21.  t  Apotoffioy  c.  21. 

Digitized  by  CjOOQ IC 


654  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  HI. 

honour ;  wherein  he  did  personate  tiie  completeness  of  courtesy  to 
that  sex .  otherwise,  a  woman  was  seldom  to  be  seen  in  his  house. 
Hence  it  was,  that  the  palace  of  this  prelate  had  more  magnificence 
than  neatness  therein,  sometimes  defective  in  ^the  punctilios  and 
niceties  of  daintiness,  lying  lower  than  masculine  cognizance,  and 
as  level  to  a  woman^s  eye  to  espy,  as  easy  for  her  hand  to  amend. 
Our  author  proceeds  :«- 

328.  Dr.  Heyxin.— ^  Envy  itself  cannot  deny,  but  that,  whither- 
soever he  went,  he  might  be  traced  by  the  footsteps  of  his  benefaction." 
(Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iiL  p.  488.)    Amongst  which  bene&ctions  it  was  none 
of  the  least,  that  in  both  the  Universities  he  had  so  many  Pensioners  ; 
more  (as  it  was  commonly  given  out)  than  all  the  noblemen  and 
bishops  in  the  land  together :  some  of  which  received  twenty  nobles, 
some  ten  pounds,  and  other  twenty  marks,  per  annum.    And  yet  it 
may  be  said,  without  envy,  that  none  of  all  these  pensions  came  out  of 
his  own  purse,  but  were  laid  as  rent-charges  upon  such  benefices  as 
were  in  his  disposing,  either  as  Lord-Keeper  or  bishop  of  Lincoln,  and 
assigned  over  to  such  scholars  in  each  University  as  applied  themselves 
to  him.    And  because  I  would  not  be  thought  to  say  this  without 
book,  I  have  both  seen  and  had  in  my  keeping,  till  of  late,  (if  I  have 
it  not  still,)  aa  acquittance  made  unto  a  minister  in  discharge  of  the 
payment  of  a  pension  of  twenty  nobles  per  annum^  to  one  who  was 
then  a  Student  in  Christ  Church.    The  names  of  the  parties  I  forbear  ; 
he  that  received  it,  and  he  for  whom  it  was  received,  (and  perhaps  he 
that  paid  it  too,)  being  still  alive.     And  possible  enough  it  is,  that 
this  pensioning  of  so  many  Scholars  had  not  been  passed  over  in 
silence  by  our  author,  if  he  had  not  known  the  whole  truth  as  well  as 
the  truth. 

Fuller. — His  pensioning  so  many  scholars  soundeth  more  to 
his  credit,  than  the  paucity  of  their  pensioners  to  the  honour  of 
other  lords  and  bishops.  It  was  impossible  that  so  numerous  pen- 
sions could  all  issue  out  of  his  own  purse,  without  great  impairing 
of  his  estate ;  and  therefore  no  wonder  if  he  was  not  the  ffiver^  bat 
the  bare  disposer,  of  some  of  them  to  promising  pregnancies,  where 
worth  and  want  did  meet  together  in  the  same  person.  And 
though  such  payments  were  not  costly  to  the  bishop,  they  were  no 
less  comfortable  to  sudh  as  received  them ;  it  being  all  one  with 
the  parched  ground,  whether  the  water-pot  which  besprinkleth  it  be 
filled  fix)m  the  spring,  or  firom  the  river.  This  was  done  by  bim 
without  any  appearance  of  evil,  with  the  free  and  full  consent  of 
such  incumbents  as  he  presented,  far  from  the  shadow  of  simoniacal 
Compliance;  seeing,  besides  the  Statute  to  this  purpose,  in  the 
reign  of  king  Henry  VIII.  the  Injunctions  of  queen  Elizabeth  do 
countenance  a  bishop^s  assigning  five  pounds  annually,  out  of  every 


Digiti 


zedbyLjOOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.     655 

hundred  pounds  of  a  benefice,  to  such  uses.  As  for  many  of  the 
pensions  he  paid,  I  am  since  as  well  assured  they  were  expended 
out  of  his  own  purse,  as  I  am  confident  the  causeless  cavils  in  our 
Animadvertor^s  book  were  bred  in  his  own  brains,  without  any 
other^s  suggesting  them  unto  him. 

329,  330.  Dr.  Heylin. — "Much  he  expended  on  the  repair  of 
Westminster  Abbey  Church,"  &c.  "  The  library  at  Westminster  'was 
the  effect  of  his  bounty."  (Oh.  Hist  vol.  iii.  p.  488.)  This  though  it 
be  true  in  part,  yet  we  cannot  say  of  it,  that  it  is  either  ^  the  whole 
truth,"  or  "  nothing  but  the  truth."  For  the  plain  truth  is,  that  nei- 
ther the  chaige  of  repairing  that  church,  nor  furnishing  that  library, 
came  out  of  his  own  private  coffers,  but  the  church's  rents.  For,  at 
such  time  as  he  was  made  Lord-Keeper  of  the  Great  Seal,  he  caused  it 
to  be  signified  unto  the  prebendaries  of  that  church,  how  inconvenient 
it  would  be  both  to  him  and  them  to  keep  up  the  Commons  of  the 
College ;  and  gained  so  far  upon  them,  that  they  passed  over  to  him 
all  the  rents  of  that  church,  upon  condition  that  he  should  pay  the 
annual  pensions  of  the  prebendaries,  schoolmasters,  choir-men,  and 
inferior  officers,  and  maintain  the  Commons  of  the  Scholars.  The 
rest,  amounting  to  a  great  yearly  value,  was  left  wholly  to  him,  upon 
his  honourable  word  and  promise  to  expend  the  same  for  the  good  and 
honour  of  that  church.  The  surplusage  of  which  expenses  received 
by  him  for  four  years  and  upwards,  amounted  unto  more  than  had 
been  laid  out  by  him  on  the  church  and  library ;  as  was  offered  to  be 
proved  before  the  Lords  Commissioners  at  the  visitation,  anno  1635. 
And  as  for  the  library  at  St.  John's,  it  might  possibly  cost  him  more 
wit  than  money ;  many  books  being  daily  sent  in  to  him,  (upon  the 
intimation  of  his  purpose  of  founding  the  two  libraries,)  by  such  as 
had  either  suits  in  Court,  or  business  in  Chancery,  or  any  ways 
depended  on  him,  or  expected  any  favours  from  him,  either  as  bishop 
of  Lincoln,  or  dean  of  Westminster. 

Fuller. — ^As  the  worm  on  a  sudden  smote  the  gourd  of  Jonah, 
and  it  withered;  so  it  is  possible,  that  the  most  verdant  and 
flourishing  charity  may  be  fretted  and  blasted  by  ill  reports. 

There  is  a  chapter-act  subscribed  with  the  hands  of  the  preben- 
daries of  Westminster,  (the  date  whereof  I  do  not  at  present 
remember,)  and  the  copy  of  it  is  in  the  bands  of  my  worthy  friend, 
wherein  they  thankfully  acknowledge  the  grea't  bounty  of  this 
bishop,  in  expending  so  much  on  the  repair  of  their  church. 

If  the  « library  of  St.  John's  cost  him  more  wit  than  money,'' 
(as  the  Animadvertor  phraseth  it,)  sure  I  am  that,  in  the  same 
sense,  the  founding  of  Fellowships  and  Scholarships  in  that  Col- 
lege, cost  him  more  money  than  wit.     Our  author  proceeds  : — 

331.  JXbu  Heyun.— ^'*He  hated  popery  with   a  perfect  hatred." 

Digitized  by  LjOOQ IC 


656  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  III. 

(Cbu  Hist  Tol.  iiL  p.  489.)  But  Wilson,  in  his  "  EQstory  of  Great 
Britain,"  sings  another  song,  whether  in  tune,  or  out  of  tune,  they 
can  best  tell  who  lired  most  near  those  times,  and  had  opportunities 
to  observe  him. 

Fuller. — ^I  wonder  that  the  Animadvertor,  who,  in  the  preface 
to  this  his  book,  had  branded  Wilson's  "History^  with  the 
name  of  a  **most  infamous  pasquil,""  maketh  mention  of  any  passage 
therein  to  a  bishop'^s  disgrace.. 

Dr.  HEYLiN.-^There  is  a  muttering  of  some  strange  offer  which  he 
made  to  king  James,- at  such  time  as  the  prince  was  in  Spain,  and  the 
Court  seemed  in  common  apprehension  to  warp  towards  popery,  which 
declared  no  such  perfect  hatred  (as  our  author  speaks  of)  unto  that 
religion. 

Fuller.— The  prophet  telleth  us  of  tongues  which  have  mut- 
tered perverseness,  Isaiah  Ivi.  3 ;  and  such  to  me  seem  they  that 
are  authors  of  this  report. 


Dr.  Hbylin< — Nor  was  he  coy  of  telling  such  whom  he 
admitted  unto  privacies  with  him,  that,  in  the  time  of  his  greatness  at 
Court,  he  was  accounted  for  the  head  of  the  catholic  party,  not  sparing 
to  declare  what  free  and  frequent  accesses  he  gave  the  principal  stick- 
lers in  that  cause,  both  priests  and  Jesuits,  and  the  special  services 
which  he  did  them.  And  it  ^must  be  somewhat  more  than  strange, 
if  all  this  be  true,  that  he  should  ^'  hate  popery  with  a  perfect  hatred ;" 
yet  not  more  strange  than  that  he  should  so  stickle  in  the  preferment 
of  Dr.  Theodore  Price  to  the  archbishopric  of  Armagh  in  Ireland, 
'^  who  died  a  professed  catholic,  reconciled  to  the  church  of  Rome,"  as 
our  author  hath  it,  Ch.  Hist  voL  iii.  p.  486.  But  if  there  be  no  more 
truth  in  the  bishop  of  Lincoln's  "  hating  popery,"  than  in  Dr.  Price's 
^*  dying  a  professed  papist,"  there  is  no  credit  to  be  given  at  all  to  that 
part  of  the  character.  Dr.  Price,  though  once  a  great  favourite  of  this 
bishop,  and  by  him  continued  sub-dean  of  Westminster  many  years 
together,  was  at  the  last  supposed  to  be  better  affected  to  bishop 
Laud,  than  to  bishop  Williams ;  bishop  Laud  having  lately  appeared 
a  suitor  for  him  for  the  bishopric  of  St.  Asaph.  And  therefore,  that 
two  birds  might  be  killed  with  the  same  bolt,  no  sooner  was  Dr.  Price 
deceased,  but  the  bishop  of  Lincoln,  being  then  at  Westminster,  calls 
the  prebends  together ;  tells  them  that  he  had  been  with  Mr.  Sub- 
Dean  before  his  death ;  that  he  left  him  in  very  doubtful  terms  about 
religion,  and  consequently  could  not  tell  in  what  form  to  bury  him ; 
that  if  the  doctor  had  died  a  professed  papist,  he  would  have  buried 
him  himself;  but,  being  as  it  was,  he  could  not  see  how  any  of  the 
prebendaries  could  either  with  safety  or  with  credit  perform  that 
office.  But  the  artifice  and  design,  being  soon  discovered,  took  so 
little  eflfect  that  Dr.  Newel,  one  of  the  senior  prebendaries,  performed 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AKlMADVERSlONS  ON  THB  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XL     657 

the  obsequies,  the  rest  of  the  whole  Chapter  attending  the  body  to  the^ 
grave,  with  all  due  solemnity. 

Fullka. — I  deny  not  but,  as  a  statesman,  he  might  do  some 
civil  offices  to  the  Romish  party  in  that  juncture  of  time,  in  com- 
pliance to  king  James'^s  commands.  But  this  amounteth  not  to 
prove  him  a  lover  of  popery. 

As  for  Dr.  Price,  I  will  not  rake  into  his  ashes.  If  he  died  a 
protestant,  it  was  the  better  for  him ;  but  the  contrary  is  generally 
reported)  printed,  believed.     Our  author  proceeds  :-— 

333.  Dr.  Heylix. — ^''He  was  so  great  an  honourer  of  the  English 
Liturgy,  that  of  his  own  cost  he  caused  the  same  to  be  translated  into 
Spanish,  and  fairly  printed,  to  confute  their  false  conceit  of  our  church,** 
&c.  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  489.)  If  this  be  true,  it  makes  not  only  to  his 
honour,  but  also  to  the  honour  of  the  English  Liturgy,  translated  intd 
more  languages  than  any  Liturgy  in  the  world,  whatsoever  it  be ; 
translated  into  Latin  by  Alexander  Alesius,  a  learned  Scot  in  king 
Edward's  time ;  as  afterward  by  Dr.  Walter  Haddon,  in  the  reign  of 
queen  Elizabeth,  and  his  translation  mended  by  Dr.  Mocket  in  the 
time  of  king  James ;  translated  into  French,  by  the  command  of  thajt 
king,  for  the  Isles  of  Guernsey  and  Jersey ;  into  Spanish,  at  the  charge 
of  this  bishop,  as  our  author  telleth  us ;  and,  finally,  into  Chreek  by 
one  Mr.  Petly,  by  whom  it  was  dedicated  and  presented  to  the  late 
archbishop  of  Canterbury,  the  greatest  patron  and  advancer  of  the 
English  Litui^.  But,  Secondly,  I  have  some  reason  to  doubt,  that 
the  liturgy  was  not  translated  at  the  eharges  of  bishop  Williams. 
That  it  was  done  by  his  procurement,  I  shall  easily  grant :  but,  who- 
soever made  the  bill  of  charges,  the  church  paid  the  reckoning;  the 
Dominican  friar  who  translated  it  being  rewarded  with  a  benefice  and 
a  good  prebend,  as  the  bishop  himself  did  signify  by  letter  to  the  duke 
of  Buckingham.* 

Fuller. — I  have  been  credibly  informed  by  those  who  have 
best  cause  to  know  it,  that  it  was  done,  not  only  by  his  procure- 
ment, but  at  his  cost ;  though  I  deny  not  but  that  a  benefice  might 
be  conferred  on  the  friar  in  reward  of  his  pains.  Thus  far  I  am 
assured  by  such  as  saw  it,  that  the  bishop  (who  had  more  skill  in 
the  Spanish  than  his  policy  would  publicly  own)  did  with  his  own 
hand  correct  every  sheet  therein. 

Db.  Hetlin.— -And  as  for  the  printing  of  the  book,  I  cannot  think 
that  it  was  at  his  charges  neither,  but  at  the  charges  of  the  printer ;  it 
not  being  usual  to  giye  the  printers  money  and  the  copy  too. 

FuLLEB. — The  Animadvertor,  so  well-practised  in  printing, 
knows  full  well,  that  though  it  be  usual  to  give  money  and  copies 
too  for  a  saleable  book,  which,  being  printed  in  our  own  tongue,  is 

^  •"C»b»l8,"p.  79. 

u  u 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


658  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCJE.  PART  III. 

eyery  man^s  money ;  yet  a  Spanish  book,  printed  in  England,  is 
chargeable,  meeting  with  few  buyers,  because  few  understanders 
thereof. 

334.  Dr.  HEYLiN.~Ancl,  Thirdly,  taking  it  for  granted,  that  the 
litaigy  was  translated  and  printed  at  this  bishop's  charges  ;  yet  does 
not  ibis  prore  him  to  he  so  great  *an  honourer  of  it  as  oar  author 
makes  him.  For  had  he  been  indeed  a  true  honourer  of  the  English 
Liturgy,  he  would  have  been  a  more  diligent  attendant  on  it  than  he 
showed  himself,  nerer  repairing  to  the  church  at  Westminster, 
(whereof  he  was  dean,)  from  the  18th  of  February,  1635,  when  the 
business  of  the  great  pew  was  judged  against  him,  till  his  commitment 
to  the  Tower  in  July,  163?. 

Fuller. — ^One  reason  why  he  seldom  came  to  prayers  to  West- 
minster church  was,  because  he  was  permitted  but  little  to  live 
there,  after  he  fell  into  the  king^s  displeasure ;  being  often  sent 
away  the  day  after  he  came  thither :  on  the  same  token,  that  once 
sir  John  Cook  being  sent  unto  him  to  command  him  to  avoid  the 
deanery  ;  ''  Mr.  Secretary,^^  said  the  bishop,  ^'  what  authority  have 
you  to  command  a  man  out  of  his  own  house  ?  ^  Which  wrought 
80  much  on  the  old  knight,  that  he  was  not  quiet  till  he  had  gotten 
his  own  pardon. 

Db.  Heylin. — Nor  ever  going  to  the  chapel  of  the  Tower,  (where 
he  was  a  prisoner,)  to  attend  the  divine  service  of  the  church,  or 
receive  the  sacrament,  &om  July,  1(S37,  when  he  was  committed,  to 
November,  1640,  when  he  was  enlarged.  A  very  strong  argument 
that  he  was  no  such  ^'  honourer  of  the  English  Liturgy,"  as  is  here 
pretended ;  a  Liturgy  most  highly  esteemed  in  all  places  wheresoeyer 
it  came ;  and  never  so  much  vilified,  despised,  condemned,  as  amongst 
ourselves ;  and  those  amongst  ourselves  who  did  so  vilify  and  despise 
it,  by  none  more  countenanced  than  by  him  who  is  here  said  to  he  so 
'^  great  an  honourer  "  of  it. 

Fuller. — Though,  for  reasons  best  known  to  himself,  he  went 
not  to  prayers  in  the  Tower-chapel,  yet  was  he  his  own  chaplain  to 
read  them  in  his  own  chamber.  And  let  me  add  this  memorahle 
passage  thereunto : — 

During  his  durance  in  the  Tower,  there  was  a  kinsman  of  sir 
William  BalfourX  then  Lieutenant,  a  Scottish  man,  (and  his  name, 
Mr.  Melvin  too,)  who,  being  mortally  dck,  sent  for  bishop 
Williams  to  pray  with  him.  The  bishop  read  to  him  "  the  Visita- 
tion of  the  Sick,^^  having  fore-acquainted  this  djrxig  man,  that  there 
was  "  a  Form  of  Absolution ''  in  this  prayer,  if  he  thought  fit  to 
receive  it :  wherewith  Mr.  Melvin  was  not  only  well  satisfied,  but 
got  himself  up  as  well  as  he  could  on  his  kneei^  in  the  bed,  and  in 
that  posture  received  absolution. 


Digiti 


zed  by  Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH- HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.     659 

335^337.  Dr.  UBYLiN.-rBut  for  this  blow  out  author  bath  hie 
huckler  ready,  tolling  us,  that  "  not  out  of  sympathy  to  Nonconform- 
ists, hut  antipathy  tp  archbishop  Laud,  he  was  favourable  to  9ome 
select  persons  of  that  opinion.''  (Ch.  Hist.  vol.  iii.  p.  489*)  An  action 
somewhat  like  to  that  of  the  earl  of  Kildare,  who,  being  accused  before 
Henry  VJII.  for  burning  flie  cathedral  church  of  Oassiies  I^Cashel]  in  Ire- 
land, professed  ingenuously,  '^that  he  would  never  have  burnt  the  church, 
if  somebody  had  not  told  him  that  the  bishop  was  in  it."  *  Hate  to 
that  bishop,  an  archbishop  of  Ireland,  incited  that  mad  earl  to  bum  his 
cathedral  church ;  and  hate  to  bishop  Laud,  the  primate  and  metropo- 
litan of  all  England,  stirred  up  this  bishop  to  raise  a  more  unquench- 
able combustion  in  the  church  of  England.  So  that  we  may  affirm  of 
him,  as  Tertullian  (in  another  case)  of  the  primitive  Christians ;  viz. 
Tanti  nan  est  bonum^  quanti  est  odium  Christianorum.  But  are  we  « 
sure  that  he  was  favourable  to  the  Nonconformists  out  of  an  antipathy 
to  bishop  Laud  only  ?  I  believe  not  so.  His  antipathy  to  the  king 
did  as  strongly  bias  him  that  way,  as  any  thing  else.  For  which  I 
have  the  testimony  of  the  author  of  "  the  History  of  King  Charles,"  pub- 
lished 1656 ;  who  telleth  us  of  him,  that  "  being  malevolently  inclined 
(about  the  loss  of  the  Great  Seal)  he  thought  he  could  not  gratify 
beloved  revenge  better  than  to  endeavour  the  supplanting  of  his  sove- 
reign. To  which  end,  finding  him  declining  in  the  afiections  of  the  peo- 
ple, he  made  his  apostrophe  and  applications  to  them,  fomenting  popular 
discourses  tending  to  the  king's  dishonour,"  &c.t  And  being  once  set 
upon  that  pin,  (  jiectere  si  nequeo  superoSy  Acheronta  movebo^  as  wo 
know  who  said,)  it  is  no  marvel  if  he  showed  himself  favourable  to  the 
Nonconformists,  as  being  enemies  to  kings  and  a  kingly  government, 
and  therefore  likeliest  to  provide  fuel  for  a  pubHc  fire.  And  yet, 
1}esides  these  two,  there  was  a  third  impressive  which  might  move  as 
strongly  on  his  nature,  as  either  of  them.  Our  author  formerly  told 
us  of  him,  that  ^^  he  was  a  back-fiiend  to  the  Canons,"  because  he  had 
no  hand  in  the  making  of  ihem.  And  fi>r  the  same  reason  also  I  con- 
ceive, that  he  might  show  himself  a  back-friend  to  the  church,  a 
patron  to  the  Noncooformists,  of  purpose  to  subvert  those  counsels, 
and  ruinate  those  designs  for  uniformity  which  had  been  resolved  and 
agreed  on  without  his  advice.  Cansilii  omnis^  cujus  ipse  non  author 
essety  inimicuSyX  as  we  know  who  said.  In  order  whereunto  he  had  no 
sooner  heard,  that  there  was  a  purpose  in  some  great  bishops  of  the 
Court  to  regulate  the  standing  of  the  communion-table,  according  to 
the  pattern  of  the  mother  cathedral  and  the  royal  chapels ;  But  he  pre- 
sently set  himself  against  it,  dispersing  copies  of  a  letter  pretended  to 
be  written  l^  him  to  the  vicar  of  Grantham  On  that  occasion,  and  pub- 
lishing his  book  ealled  "  the  Holy  Table,"  full  of  quotations,  but  more 
in  numba:  than  in  weight.  And  this  he  did  out  of  a  mere  spirit  of  con- 
tradiction, directly  contrary  to  his  own  pixictice  in  all  places  where  he 

•  Camden's  "  Remains."  t  "  History  of  King  Charles,"  fol.  152.  t  Taciti 

Historia,  Hb.  i. 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


660  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  III. 

had  to  do;  tbat  is  to  say,  not  only  in  the  collegiate  chnicH  at  West- 
minster whereof  he  was  dean,  and  in  the  cathedral  church  of  Lincok 
whereof  he  was  hishop,  but  in  his  own  private  chapel  at  Bugden  also, 
where  there  was  nobody  to  act  any  thing  in  it  but  himself  alone. 

FuLi^EB. — I  will  not  advocate  for  all  the  actions  of  bishop 
Williams ;  and  though  the  Animadvertor  beholds  my  pen  as  over- 
partial  unto  him,  yet  I  know  who  it  was  that  wrote  unto  me.  Sem- 
per es  iniquwr  in  onAiepiteopum  Eboracensem. 

I  am  a  true  honourer  of  his  many  excellent  virtues,  and  no 
excuser  of  his  faults ;  who  could  heartily  wish,  that  the  latter  part 
of  his  life  had  been  like  the  beginning  thereof. 

Dr.  Hbtun.— And  so  I  take  my  leave  of  this  great  prelate ;  whom 
I  both  reverence  for  his  place,  and  honour  for  his  parts,  as  much  as 
any.  And  yet  I  cannot  choose  but  say,  that  I  find  more  reason  to 
condemn,  than  there  is  to  commend  him ;  so  that  we  may  affirm  of 
him  as  the  historian  doth  of  Caius  Caesar,  son  of  Agrippa,  and  nephew 
to  the  great  Augustus;  viz.  Tarn  varU  se  gessiij  ut  nee  laudaiurum 
magna^  nee  vituperaturum  medioerit  materia  defieiat^  as  my  author 
hath  it.*  And  with  the  same  character,  accommodated  to  our  author, 
and  this  present  History,  I  conclude  these  notes ;  subjoining  only  this 
old  saymg  as  well  for  my  comfort  as  defence ;  namely,  ^^  Truth,  though 
it  may  be  blamed,  can  never  be  shamed." 

Fuller. — ^Here  the  Animadvertor  doth  tickle  and  pinch  me 
both  together;  yet  neither  will  I  laugh  nor  cry,  but  keep  my 
former  composure. 

I  will  take  no  notice  of  a  piece  of  Mezentism-f  in  his  joining  of 
the  dead  and  living  together ;  and  conceive  myself  far  unworthy  to 
be  paralleled  in  the  least  degree  with  his  eminences. 

However,  I  will  endeavour,  with  the  gladiators,  xaXw;  vlmm^ 
haneiti  decumbere^  that  ^*  when  I  can  fight  no  longer,  I  may  fall 
handsomely,^  in  the  scene  of  this  life. 

May  Ood,  who  gave  it,  have  the  glory  of  what  is  good  in  me ; 
myself  the  shame  of  what  is  bad,  which  I  ought  to  labour  to 
amend.^ 

*  Patbrculdb,  Hilt,  L  ii.  t  From  Mezenthuiy  tlie  crael  IjTant  of  Etniris.  Accord- 
ing  to  VirgU,  (.Sneid.  viU.  486.)  Motiua  guinetiam  jungebai  corpora  tfivU,  componem 
mambutqtie  f^antu,  ifc, — Edit.  t  Fuller  condudes  this  volnme  in  a  very  vniiBnal 

maimer^  by  inaeiliiig  four  of  Us  own  letters  or  addreiees :  the  First,  "  to  Dr.  John 
Cosin }  **  the  Second,  <<to  the  religioas,  leamed,  and  ingennoos  Reader ; "  the  Third, 
"to  my  loving  Friend,  Dr.  Peter  Heylin;"  and  the  Fourth,  "to  Dr.  CofneBtis 
Bnrges."  On  those  to  Dr.  Cosin  and  to  Dr.  Barges,  it  will  be  necessaiy  to  append 
some  remarks,  for  the  better  information  of  the  reader. 

The  brief  letter  to  Dr.  Cosin,  which  occurs  in  page  669,  is  the  only  reply  that  Fuller 
returns  to  the  very  important  "  Appendix ''  of  HeyBn ;  which  I  now  proceed  to  present 
withoQt  abridgment,  no  part  of  it  having  been  given  in  "  the  Appeal  of  ii^med  Inno- 
cence," though  it  contains  matters  of  great  interest,  and  disperses  those  unjust  preju- 
dices which  had  been  long  cherished  against  one  of  the  most  learned  and  amiabls 
divines,  afterwards  a  prelate,  of  the  church  of  England.— Edit. 

Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


AN  APPENDIX 

TO 

THE  FOREGOING  ANIMADVERSIONS ; 

CONTAINING 

THE  APOLOGY   OP   DR.  JOHN  COSIN,  DEAN  OP 
PETERBOROUGH: 

IN    ANSWER    TO  SOME   PASSAGES   IN  THE   CHURCH- HISTORY  OF 

BRITAIN ; 

IN  WHICH  HB  FINDS  HIMSBLF  CONCERNED. 


Dr.  HETLiN.<^It  is  well  known  to  some  in  London,  tliat  the  fore- 
going Animadyersions  were  finished,  and  fitted  for  the  press  before 
Michaelmas,  anno  1657*  The  reasons  why  they  hare  Iain  so  long 
unpublished  were  these  two  especiaUj :  First.  A  report  that  the  task 
was  undertaken  by  a  Cambridge- man,  who  had  more  knowledge  of  the 
author  whom  I  had  to  deal  with  than  I  can  pretend  to ;  and  I  desired 
rather  that  the  burden  of  it,  the  public  satisfaction  to  all  parties, 
intrusted,  should  be  borne  by  any  than  myself.  Secondly.  There  was 
a  general  opinion  spread  abroad  in  all  places,  (to  what  ends  I  know 
not,  nor  much  care,)  that  the  Church-Historian  was  in  hand  with  a 
reyiew  of  the  work  before  us,  in  which  he  was  resolyed  to  make  some 
&ir  amends  to  truth,  to  correct  tiie  errors  of  his  pen,  and  to  make 
reparation  to  the  injured  deigy:  and,  to  say  truth,  diere  was  none 
fitter  than  himself  for  that  undertaking,  none  fitter  to  gire  plasters  for 
the  broken  heads,  than  the  man  that  breaks  them,  The  poet  was 
right  enough  in  this, 

. nam  qui  mihi  vuhutaffcit 

Sohu  AckUko  toilere  more  pote$U 

That  is  to  say, 

**  None  but  the  man  who  gave  the  woimd» 
Achillefl-like,  oonld  make  it  sound," 

But  the  reports  being  thought  at  last  to  hare  somewhat  in  them  of 
design  or  artifice,  to  stave  off  the  business,  I  was  solicited  with  greater 
importunity  to  publish  the  foregoing  Animadversions,  than  I  was  at 
first  to  undertake  them.  The  reader,  notwithstanding,  will  be  no  loser 
by  this  delay. 
For,  first,  it  gave  me  leisure  and  opportunity  of  bestowing  my 


Digitized  by 


Google 


G62  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  UI. 

second  thought  upon  the  Animadyersiong,  adding  here  and  there  some 
ohsenrations,  which  before  were  wanting. 

Andy  Secondly,  it  brought  into  mj  hands  tiie  *^  Apologj  of  Dr.  'John 
Cosin,  dean  of  Peterborough,"  in  qpswer  to  some  passages  of  our  pre- 
sent History,  directed  in  the  waj  of  a  letter  to  one  Mr.  Warren,  now 
deceased,  with  a  desire  to  hare  them  communicated  to  the  author  of 
some  ^'  Animadrersions "  upon  that  History,  which  he  was  credibly 
informed  (by  what  intelligence  I  know  not)  to  be  then  in  readiness. 
I  shall  therefore  do  him  so  much  right  as  to  communicate  his  papers 
to  the  public  yie  w ;  first  laying  down  Mr.  Fuller's  words  as  they  lie  in  his 
History,  and  then  leaying  Dr.  Cosin  to  speak  for  himself.  So  doing,  I 
shall  keep  myself  from  engaging  upon  either  side,  and  leave  the  reader 
to  judge  indifferently  between  the  parties  as  he  sees  occasion* 


34 — 38.  Superstitions  charged  on  Dr.  Cosin,     Cruel  Usage  of  Mr, 
Smart  y  relieved  hy  Parliament.     Dr.  Cosin  s  due  Praise. 

^  Dr.  Cosin  soon  after  was  highly  accused  for  superstition  and  unjust 
proceedings  against  one  Mr.  Smart  on  this  occasion :  The  doctor  is 
chaiged  to  hare  set  up  in  the  church  of  Durham  a  marble  altar  with 
chembims,  which  cost  two  thousand  pounds,  with  all  the  appurte- 
nances thereof;  namely,  a  cope  with  tiie  Trinity,  and  God  the  Father 
in  the  figure  of  an  old  man,  another  with  a  orueifix  and  the  image  of 
Christ,  with  a  red  beard  and  blue  cap.  Besides,  he  was  dccused  for 
lighting  two  hundred  wax-candles  about  the  altar  on  Oandlemas-day ; 
for  forbidding  any  psalms  to  be  sung-  before  or  after  setmon,  though 
making  an  anthem  to  be  sung  of  the  three  kings  of  Cdogne,  by  the 
names  of  Gaspar,  Belthazar,  and  Melchior ;  and  for  procuring  a  conse- 
crated knife,  only  to  cut  the  bread  at  the  communion. 

^^  Mr.  Smart,  a  prebendary  of  the  church,  one  of  a  grave  ai^et  and 
reverend  presence,  sharply  inveighed  in  a  sermon  against  these  innova- 
tions, taking  for  his  text :  *  I  hate  all  those  that  hold  superstitious 
vanities ;  but  thy  law  do  I  love.' 

^'  Hereupon  he  was  kept  prisoner  four  months  by  tiie  High  Commis- 
sion of  York,  before  any  articles  were  exhibited  against  hiin ;  and  five 
months  before  any  proctor  was  allowed  him.  Hence  was  he  carried  to 
the  High-Commission  at  Lambeth ;  and,  after  long  trouble,  remanded 
to  York,  fined  five  hundred  pounds,  committed  to  prison,  ordered  to 
recant,  and,  for  that  neglect  thereof,  fined  again,  excommunicated, 
degraded,  and  deprived,  his  damage  (as  brought  in)  amounting  to 
many  thoustod  pounds. 

^'  But  now  Mr.  Bouse,  of  the  House  of.  Commons,  bringing  up  the 
charge  to  the  Lords  against  Dr.  Cosin,  termed  Mr.  Smart,  ^  the  proto- 
martyr  of  England  in  these  latter  days  of  persecution,'  and  large  r^- 
rations  were  allowed  unto  him,  though  he  lived  not  long  after  to  enjoy 
them. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY^  BOOK  XI.      66S 

^'  Now,  though  none  can  excuse  and  defend  Dr.  Cosin's  carriage 
herein,  yet  this  must  he  reported  to  his  due  commendation :  Some 
years  after,  getting  over  into  France,  he  neither  joined  with  the  church 
of  French  protestants  at  Charenton  nigh  Paris,  nor  kept  any  commu- 
nion with  the  papists  therein ;  hut  confined  himself  to  the  church  of 
old  English  protestants  therein ;  where,  hy  his  pious  living  and  constant 
pra3riiig  and  preaching,  he  reduced  some  recusants  to— ^and  confirmed 
more  douhters  in-*-the  protestant  religion.  Many  his  encounters  with 
Jesuits  and  priests,  defeating  the  suspicions  of  his  foes,  and  exceeding 
the  expectation  of  his  friends,  in  the  success  of  such  disputes." 
(Ch.  Hist.  Tol.  iii.  pp.  412,  413.) 


THE  ANSWER  OF  DR.   COSIN   TO  THE  CHARaE  FOREGOINa. 

«  Paris,  April  6th,  165a 
"Sir, 

^^I  AM  glad  to  hear  from  you  of  your  safe  arrival  in  England : 
and  I  am  to  thank  hoth  you  and  other  of  my  friends,  that  intend  to 
vindicate  me  froin  the  injury  done,  no  less  to  truth  than  to  myself,  hy 
a  passage  in  Mr.  Fuller's  '  History,'  which  I  helieve  he  inserted  there 
(as  he  doth  many  things  hesides)  upon  ihe  false  reports  and  informa- 
tions of  other  men,  that  were  loath  to  let  an  old  malicious  accusation 
die,  as  it  might  well  enough  have  done,  if  he  had  not  kept  it  up  still 
alive,  and  recorded  it  to  postiBrity;  whereof  he  is  so  sensible  already 
himself,  that,  hy  his  own  lett^  directed  to  me,  (more  than  a  year 
since,)  he  offered  to  make  me  amends  in  the  next  book  he  writes ;  * 
but  he  hath  not  done  it  yet.  Having  never  been  acquainted  with  him 
more  than  by  his  books,  which  have  many  petulant,  light,  and  indis- 
creet passages  in  them,  I  know  not  how  to  trust  him;  and  therefore,  if 
the  authors  of  the  intended  Animadversions  (which  you  mention)  will 
be  pleased  to  do  me  ri^t,  you  may  assume  them  there  is  nothing  but 
truth  in  this  ensuing  relation. 

'^  Mr.  Snuirt,  who  had  been  schoolmaster,  and  after  became  preben- 
dary of  Durham,  was  an  old  man  of  a  most  fioward,  fierce,  and 
unpeaceable  spirit,  &c.  Upon  a  seditious  sermon  which  he  preached 
in  that  church,  (where,  contrary  to  his  duty,  he  had  neglected  to 
preach  for  seven  years  together  before,)  he  was  first  questioned  at 
Darham,  from  whence  he  was  called  to  the  High-Commission  Court 
at  London,  and  afterwards  at  his  own  desire  remitted  to  the  same 
Court  at  York ;  where  being  sentenced  to  recant,  and  refusing  so  to 
do  with  great  s<Jorn,  he  was  at  last,  upon  his  obstinacy,  degraded  from 
his  ecdesiastical  function ;  and  that  sentence  was  not  long  after  judi- 

*  It  is  not  improbable,  that  this  letter  is  the  one  from  Fnller  to  Cosin  which  immedi- 
ately Mows  in  page  669.-*£dit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


664  APPEAL  OF  mJURED  INNOCEKCE.  PART  III. 

dally  oonfiimed  bj  Jodge  Damport  at  the  public  Asnzes  in  Durbam, 
where  he  was  bj  public  sentence  also  at  the  Common  Law  put  out  of 
his  prebendy  and  his  benefices  that  he  formerly  held  in  that  count j. 

'*  Many  years  following,  he  procured  a  large  maintenance  for  him* 
self  and  his  &mily,  to  the  sum  of  £400  per  annum^  (more  worth  to 
him  than  his  church-profits  erer  were,)  out  of  the  peculiar  contribu- 
tions at  London  and  elsewhere  gathered  up  for  silenced  nunisters. 

^*  But  when  the  Pariiament  began  in  the  year  1640,  upon  project 
and  hope  of  getting  more,  he  preferred  a  Bill  of  Complaint  there 
against  thirty  sereral  persons  at  the  least ;  thiat  is,  against  the  High- 
Commissioners  at  London,  the  same  Commissioners  and  Prebends 
Residentiary  at  York,  the  Dean  and  Chapter  of  Durham,  with  diyers 
others,  whereof  I  was  but  one,— though  he  was  pleased  to  set  my 
name  in  the  front  of  them  all.  From  all  these  together  he  expected  to 
recover  and  receive  a  greater  sum  of  money,  (for  money  was  his  pro- 
ject,) pretending  that  he  had  lost  by  them  no  less  than  thirty  thousand 
pounds,  though  he  vras  never  known  to  be  worth  one. 

^  After  his  Bill  of  Complaint  was  carried  up  by  a  gentleman  of  the 
House  of  Commons  to  the  House  of  Lords,  among  the  rest  of  those 
persons  that  were  accused  by  him,  (some  for  superstition,  and  some  for 
persecution,)  I  put-in  my  full  answer  upon  oath,  and  declared  the 
truth  of  the  whole  matter ;  whereof  Mr.  Fuller  taketh  not  any  notice 
at  all,  and  therein  dealeth  most  unfiuthfully  both  with  me  and  the 
reader  of  his  History ;  for  that  answer  of  mine  is  upon  record,  among 
the  Bolls  of  Parliament,  and  was  justified  before  the  Lords  both  hy 
myself,  and  by  the  very  witness  that  Mr.  Smart  and  his  son-in-law 
produced  there  against  me ;  whereupon  his  own  lawyer  (Mr.  Glover) 
openly  at  the  Bar  of  that  honourable  House  forsook  him,  and  told  him 
plainly,  that  he  was  ashamed  of  his  Complaint,  and  could  not  in  con- 
science plead  for  him  any  longer ;  Mr.  Smart  in  the  mean  while  cry- 
ing out  aloud,  and  beseeching  their  Lordships  to  appoint  him  another 
lawyer,  and  to  take  care  of  his  fourteen  thousand  pounds'  damages, 
besides  other  demands  that  he  had  to  make,  which  arose  to  a  greater 
sum. 

«  But  after  this,  (which  was  the  fiftti  day  of  pleading  between  us,) 
the  case  was  heard  no  more  concerning  my  particular ;  and  many  of 
the  Lords  said  openly,  that  Mr.  Smart  had  abused  tiie  House  of  Com- 
mons with  a  causeless  complaint  against  me.  Whereupon  my  lord 
the  earl  of  Warwick  was  pleased  to  bring  me  an  Order  of  the  Lords' 
House,  whereby  I  had  liberty  granted  me  to  return  unto  my  places  of 
charge  in  the  University,  or  elsewhere,  till  they  sent  for  me  again, 
which  they  never  did. 

**  The  answers  that  I  gave  in  upon  oath,  and  justified  before  their 
Lordships,  were  to  this  effect,  aU  contrary  to  Mr.  Fuller's  groundless 
reports  ;— 

"  I.  That  the  communion-table  in  the  church  of  Durham  (which,  in 
the  Bill  of  Complaint  and  Mr.  Fullers  History,  is  said  to  be  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THB  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.       Q^^ 

marble  altar  with  chembims)  was  not  set  up  by  me,  bat  by  tiie  Dean 
and  Chapter  there,  (whereof  Mr.  Smart  himself  was  one,)  many  years 
before  I  became  prebendary  of  that  church,  or  ever  saw  the  country. 

^  2.  That  by  the  public  accounts  which  are  there  registered,  it  did 
not  appear  to  have  cost  above  the  tenth  part  of  what  is  pretended, 
appurtenances  and  all. 

*^3.  That  likewise  the  copes  used  in  that  church  were  brought  in 
thither  Icmg  before  my  time,  and  when  Mr.  Smart  the  complainant 
was  prebendary  there ;  who  also  allowed  his  part  (as  I  was  ready  to 
prove  by  the  Act-Book)  of  the  money  that  they  cost,-*-for  they  cost 
but  little. 

'^  4.  That  as  I  never  approved  the  picture  of  the  Trinity,  or  the 
image  of  God  the  Father  in  the  figure  of  an  old  man,  or  otherwise,  to 
be  made  or  placed  any  where  at  all ;  so  I  was  well  assured  that  there 
were  none  such  (nor  to  my  knowledge  or  hear-say  ever  had  been)  put 
upon  any  cope  that  was  used  there  among  us.  One  there  was  that 
had  the  story  of  the  passion  embroidered  upon  it ;  but  the  cope  that  I 
used  to  wear,  when  at  any  time  I  attended  the  communion-service, 
was  of  plain  white  satin  only  without  any  embroidery  upon  it  at  all. 

^5.  That  what  the  Bill  of  Complaint  called  the  image  of  Christ, 
with  a  blue  cap,  and  a  golden  beard,  (Mr.  Fuller  s  History  says,  it  was 
red,  and  that  it  was  set  upon  one  of  the  copes,)  was  nothing  else  but 
the  top  of  bishop  Hatfield's  tomb,  set  up  in  the  church  under  a  side- 
arch  there,  two  hundred  years  before  I  was  bom;  being  a  little 
portraiture,  not  appearing  to  be  above  ten  inches  long,  and  hardly  dis^ 
cemible  to  the  eye  what  figure  it  is,  for  it  stands  thirty  feet  from  the 
ground. 

^'  6.  That,  by  the  local  statutes  of  that  church,  (whereunto  Mr. 
Smart  was  sworn,  as  well  as  myself,)  the  treasurer  was  to  give  order, 
that  the  provision  should  eveiy  year  be  made  of  a  sufficient  number  of 
wax-lights  for  the  service  of  the  choir,  during  all  the  winter  time ; 
which  statute  I  observed  when  I  was  chosen  into  that  office,  and  had 
order  from  the  Dean  and  Chapter  by  Capitular  Act  to  do  it.  Yet, 
upon  the  communion-table  they  that  used  to  light  the  candles,  (the 
Sacrists  and  the  Vergers,)  never  set  more  than  two  fair  candles  with  a 
few  small  sizes  near  to  them ;  which  they  put  there,  of  purpose  that 
the  people  all  about  might  have  the  better  use  of  them,  for  singing  the 
psalms,  and  reading  the  Lessons  out  of  the  Bibles.  But  two  hundred 
was  a  greater  number  than  they  used  all  the  church  over,  either  upon 
Candlemas-night  or  any  other ;  and  that  there  were  no  more  (some- 
times many  less)  lighted  at  that  time,  than  at  the  like  festivals  in 
Christmas-holidays,  when  the  people  of  the  city  came  in  greater  com- 
pany to  the  church,  and  therefore  required  a  greater  store  of  lights. 

"  7.  That  I  never  forbade  (nor  any  body  else  that  I  know)  the  sing- 
ing of  the  (metre)  psalms  in  the  church,  which  I  used  to  sin^  daily 
there  myself  with  other  company  at  Morning  Prayer.  But  upon 
Sundays  and  holy-days  in  the  choir,  before  the  sennon  the  Creed  was 


Digitized  by 


Google 


566  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  III. 

Buagy  (and  fimg  pkiiilj  for  ereij  one  to  nnderttand,)  as  it  is  appoiated- 
in  the  Communion-Book ;  and,  after  the  seimon,  we  snug  a  part  of  a 
psalm,  or  some  other  anthem  takon  oat  of  the  Sciiptmre^  and  first  sig- 
nified to  the  people  where  the j  might  find  it. 

*^  8.  That  so  £ar  was  I  fiK>m  wmlfing  any  anthem  to  be  sung  of  the 
three  kings  of  Cologne,  as  that  I  made  it,  when  I  first  saw  it,  to  be 
torn  in  pieces ;  and  I  myself  cut  it  ont  of  the  old  song-books  belong- 
ing to  the  Choristers'  school,  with  a  pen-knife  that  lay  by,  at  my  tgtj 
first  coming  to  reside  in  that  College.  Bat  sore  I  was,  tiiat  no  sadi 
anthem  had  been  sang  in  the  choir,  daring  all  my  time  of  attendance 
there,  nor  (for  aught  that  any  the  eldest  persons  of  the  choroh  and 
town  coold  tell,  or  erer  heard,  to  the  contzary)  for  fifty  or  threescore 
years  before,  and  more. 

^'  9.  That  there  was  indeed  an  ordinaiy  knife,  I  confess,  proYided 
and  laid  ready  among  other  things  belonging  to  the  administrati<m  of 
the  commonion,  for  the  cutting  of  the  bread,  and  dirers  other  uses  in 
the  church-Testry ;  that  when  the  under-officers  there  had  any  occa- 
sion to  use  a  knife,  they  might  not  be  put  to  go  to  seek  one  abroad. 
Bat  that  it  was  ever  consecrated,  or  so  called,  otherwise  than  as  Mr. 
Smart  and  some  of  his  followers  had  for  their  pleasure  put  that  appel- 
lation  upon  it,  I  nerer  heard,  nor  I  believe  any  body  else  that  liTed 
here  among  us. 

*'  (There  were  dirers  other  articles  of  this  nature  in  the  Bill  of  Com- 
plaint, whereof  Mr.  Smart  could  not  prore  any  one,  to  which  I  gave 
the  like  answers,  ail  I  did  hc^e  to  these ;  but  Mr.  Fuller's  HisUny 
makes  no  mention  of  them.) 

^'  10.  Touching  Mr.  Smart's  sermon,  I  made  answer ;  and  submitted 
his  censure  to.  the  prudent  and  religious  consideration  of  the  Lords, 
whether  he  was  not  justly  condemned  to  be  scandalous  and  seditious 
by  his  preaching  thereof;  and  I  represented  many  passages  in  it,  disa« 
greeable  to  tiie  laws  of  Gknl  and  his  church,  and  repugnant  to  the 
public  Statutes  of  Parliament. 

'^  11.  Fot  which  after  we  had  begun  to  question  him  in  the  High- 
Commission  Court  at  Durham,  (where  we  endeayoured  to  reduce  him 
to  a  better  mind,  and  to  an  vmty  with  the  church,  againsrt;  which  he 
had  so  injuriously  and  intemperately  declaimed,)  I  had  no  further 
hand  or  meddlii:^  with  the  prosecution  of  this  matter  in  other  Courts 
against  him,  more  than  that  I  wrote  (at  the'  special  instance  of  Judge 
Yelyerton)  a  lettet  in  his  behalf  to  tibie  archbishop  of  York,  aiid  the 
Commissioners  there,  which  I  procured  the  Dean  and  most  of  the  Pre- 
bendaries of  Durham  to  sign  and  subscribe  with  me,  earnestly  entreat- 
ing for  him,  that,  upon  any  due  sense  of  his  fiiult,  he  might  be  quietly 
sent  back  to  us  again,  in  hope  that  he  would  hereafter  live  in  better 
peace  and  concord  mth  us,  (as  he  promised  both  Judge  Tdrerton  and 
us  to  do,)  than  he  had  done  before. 

"  12.  The  cruel  usage  and  imprisonment  that  he  suffered,  (wheredF 
Mr.  Fuller  taketh  special  notice,  and  makes  a  marginal  mark  at  it,) 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTOBY,  BOOK  XI.    667 

was,  as  I  hare  been  crediUj  aflsitred,  notluBg  elsef  bat  a  fair  and 
gentle  treatment  of  him  in  an  officer's  house  at  York ;  to  whom  he 
was  committed  for  a  while,  and  paid  little  for  it.  It  is  the  Historian'^ 
mistake  here  to  say,  he  was  carried  from  York  to  Lambeth ;  for  he 
was,  at  his  own  request,  sent  from  Lambeth  to  York ;  the  fine  that 
was  set  upon  him  he  never  paid ;  and,  by  his  own  wilful  loss  of  his 
church-liying^,  he  gidned  a  lazger  maintenance,  liting  at  his  ease  and 
pleasure,  by  the  contribution  that  he  got  as  a  suspended  and  silenced 
preacher;  though  the  truth  was^  that,  haying  had  a  prebend  and  a 
benefice  many  years  together  iil  the  bishdpric  of  Durham,  and  being 
always  in  health,  he  neglected  preaching  so  much  $i  them  both,  and 
elsewhere  besides,  that  he  was  seldom  noted  to  preach  abore  two 
sermons  in  a  year;  who,  though  he  demanded  many  thousand  pounds 
at  the  Parliament,  yet,  by  Mr.  Fuller's  leare,  the  Patliament  gave  him 
none;  nor  ord^ed  either  myself,  nor  any  other  that  he  impeached, 
ever  to  pay  him  a  groat ;  only,  upon  Dr.  Carr's  death,  (who  had.  been 
put  into  his  prebend's  place,)  he  was  sent  by  the  Lords  to  his  vicarage 
and  his  prebend  again ;  which  he  had  little  will  to  tak^,  because  he 
found  but  little  profit  in  comparison  of  what  he  hoped  to  be  had  by 
them.  In  the  mean  while,  he  took  up  divers  great  sums  of  money 
from  some  of  his  partisans  in  London,  and  made  them  believe  that  the 
Parliament  would  pay  them  all  with  advantage. 

"  13.  There  is  another  marginal  note  in  Mr.  Fuller,  referring,  as  he 
saith,  *  to  my  due  praise  and  commendation ; '  whereof  he  makes  one 
part  to  be,  tiiat  I  joined  not  with  th^  French  protestants  at  Charenton, 
since  I  got  over  hither  iiito  France :  but  I  would  that  he  and  all  the 
world  should  know  it,  I  never  refused  to  join  with  the  protestants 
eitlier  there,  or  any  where. else,  in  aU  things  wh^ein  they  join  with 
the  church  of  England.  Many  of  them  have  been  here  at  our  diurch, 
and  we  have  been  at  thein.  I  have  buried  divers  of  our  people  at 
Charenton,  and  they  pennit  tts  to  make  ujse  of  their  peculiar  and 
decent  cemetwy  here  in  Paris  for  that  purpose ;  which  if  they  did  not, 
we  should  be  forced  to  bury  our  dead  in  a  ditch.  I  have  baptized 
many  of  their  children  at  the  request  of  tlieir  own  miiiistersj  with* 
whom  I  have  good  acquaintance ;  and  find  them  to  be  retj  des^ving 
and  learned  men,  great  lovers  and  honoure)^  of  our  chuich,  notwith-^ 
standing  the  loss  which  she  hatli  lately  received  in  external  matters, 
wherein  we  are  agreed  that  the  essence  of  true  religion  doth  not  con- 
sist. Many  of  their  people  (and  of  the  best  sort  and  quality  among 
them)  have  firequented  our  public  prayers  with  great  reverence ;  and  I 
have  delivered  the  holy  connhuliion  to  them,  according  to  our  own 
Order ;  which  they  observed  religiously.  I  have  married  divers  per- 
sons of  good,  condhion  among  them :  and  I  have  presented  some  of 
their  scholars  to  be  ordained  deacons  and  priests  here  by  our  own 
bishc^s,  (whereof  Moni^idur  de  Turenne's  chaplain  is  one,  and  the 
duke  de  la  Force's  chaplain  another,)  and  the  church  at  Charenton 
approved  of  it;   and  I  preached  here  publicly  at  thedr  ordination^ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


666  APPSAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCSNGE.  PART  III. 

Betidei,  I  hare  been  (as  often  as  I  had  spare  time  from  attending  our 
own  congregation)  to  pray  and  sing  psalms  with  them,  and  to  hear 
both  the  weekly  and  the  Sunday  sermons  at  Chaienton ;  whither  two 
of  my  children  also  (pensioned  here  in  a  protestant  family  at  Paris) 
hare  daily  repaired  for  that  pnxpose,  with  the  gentlewoman  that 
govemed  uiem. 

^  All  which  is  abmidantly  enough  to  let  the  world  know  and  see 
here  (as  it  doth)  what  a  Tain  and  rash  man  Mr.  Fuller  is  in  his 
History :  wherein  he  hath  done  injury  to  many  more  besides  me,  some 
dead  and  some  alire,  who,  I  hope,  will  represent  his  nnfaithfiilness  in 
his  own  country,  both  to  himself  and  to  others.  I  am  only  beholden 
to  him  for  telling  the  truth  of  me  in  one  particular ;  which  is,— that  I 
hare,  by  God's  blessing,  reduced  some,  and  preserved  many  others,  finom 
communicating  with  the  papists ;  defending  the  truth  of  our  own  reli- 
gion (as  I  hare  always  done)  whererer  I  am ;  and  therein  I  pmy  God 
still  to  bless  us  and  preserre  us  alL 

**  And  now  out  of  all  this  whidi  I  hare  fiiithfully  related,  I  trust 
that  those  who  intend  their  *  Animadyersions'  upon  his  History,  will 
hare  enough  to  say  and  insert  in  their  own  style  for  the  Tindication  of, 
"Sir, 

"  Your  affectionate  and  most  humble  servant, 

**JOHN  OOSIN." 


You  know  Monsieur  Daill^  to  be  one  of  the  greatest  account  and 
the  best  deserts  amongst  the  Reformed  churchmen  in  France.  It  wiU 
not  be  amiss  to  let  you  know,  upon  this  occasion,  what  he  wrote  to  a 
scholar,  a  friend  of  his,  and  an  University-man,  in  Cambridge ;  for 
these  were  the  words  in  his  letter :— - 

Tuiu  Cosin,  imd  nostery  (intercedii  enim  nobU  cum  iUo  suavis 
amicitia  atque  familiaritasj  mihi  admodum  probatur.  Bestice  sunt 
et  quidem  fanatici  qui  eum  de  PapUmo  tuspecium  habentj  a  quo  vix 
reperias  qui  sit  magis  alienuiy  4*c. 

*  Thus  haying  laid  before  the  reader  both  the  Bill  and  Answer,  I  leave 
him  to  make  judgment  of  it  by  the  rules  of  equity ;  remembering  hiin 
of  that  old  saying ;  vuf  e/tce^— - 

^ui  sUOuii  aliguid,  parte  inaudUd  alterd, 

jEgmm  licet  etatmerit,  kaud  4eqmu/uit. 

FULLER. 
to  the  reyerend  and  his  worthy  friend,  dr.  john 
cosin,  dean  of  peterborough. 
Sir, 

You  may  be  pleased  to  remember,  that,  some  two  years  since, 
being  informed  by  our  friend  Mr,  Davenport,  that  you  took  some 
exceptions  at  what  I  had  written  concerning  you,  in  my  CJhurch- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.      §69 

History,  I  returned  you  an  answer  to  this  effect : — "  That  I  would 
make  you  just  reparation,  either  in  the  next  edition  of  my  His- 
tory, or  in  another  book  which  I  was  about  to  set  forth  of  the 
Worthies  of  England  :  choosing  therein  the  most  proper  and 
conspicuous  place,  which  might  render  it  most  visible  to  the 
reader.^ 

This  last  book  had  since  been  printed,  had  not  the  unhappy 
difference  between  Dr.  Heylin  and  me  retarded  it. 

What  I  wrote  concerning  your  accusation  in  the  House  of  Com- 
mons, I  transcribed  out  of  the  manuscript  journals  of  that  House. 
As  for  your  purgation  in  the  House  of  Lords,  I  knew  not  thereof: 
which  maketh  such  my  omission  the  more  excusable. 

I  am  now  right  glad,  that  you  did  so  clearly  vindicate  your  inno- 
cence. In  my  next  edition,  I  will  do  you  all  possible  right  (with 
improvement)  that  my  pen  can  perform :  as  also,  Ood  willing, 
when  I  come  to  treat,  in  my  intended  book,  of  the  cathedral  of 
Durham. 

In  the  mean  time,  joining  with  hundreds  more  of  my  profession, 
in  thanks  to  you  for  your  worthy  work  on  the  Apocrypha,  and 
desiring  the  continuation  and  increase  of  God'^s  blessing  on  your 
studies,  who  do  abide  ^^  the  champion  for  our  religion  ^  in  foreign 
parts,  know  that,  amongst  your  many  honourers,  you  have  none 
more  affectionate  than 

Your  humble  servant, 

THOMAS  PULLER. 


[[The  subjoined  is  the  promised  account  which  Fuller  has  given  of 
bishop  Cosin,  in  his  description  of  the  county-palatine  of  Durham :— - 

"  John  Cosin,  D.  D.,  was  bom  in  the  city  of  Norwich,  bred  in  Gains 
College  in  Cambridge,  whereof  he  was  Fellow.  Hence  was  he 
removed  to  the  Mastership  of  Peter-house  in  the  same  University. 
One  whose  abilities,  quick  apprehension,  solid  judgment,  variety  of 
reading,  &c.  are  sufficiently  made  known  to  the  world  in  his  learned 
books,  whereby  he  hath  perpetuated  his  name  to  posterity. 

'*  I  must  not  pass  over  his  constancy  in  his  religion,  which  rendereth 
him  amiable  in  the  eyes  not  of  good  men  only,  but  of  that  God  with 
whom  there  is  no  variableness,  nor  shadow  of  changing.  It  must  be 
confessed,  that  a  sort  of  fond  people  surmised  as  if  he  had  once  been 
declining  to  the  popish  persuasion.  Thus  the  dim-sighted  complain  of 
the  darjmess  of  the  room,  when,  alas !  the  fiiult  is  in  their  own  eyes ; 
and  the  lame,  of  the  unevenness  of  the  floor,  when,  indeed,  it  lieth  in 
their  unsound  legs.  Such  were  the  silly  folk, — ^tneir  understandings 
(the  eyes  of  their  minds)  being  darkened,  and  their  affections  (the  feet 

•Digitized  by  ^OOQlC 


670  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.      PART  III. 

of  Uieir  soul)  made  lame  by  prejudice^— ^ho  ba^e  thiu  falsely  con- 
oeited  of  this  worthy  doctor. 

'^Howerer,  if  aay  thing  that  I  il^rered  ia  piy  Church-Histoxy 
(relating  therein  a  chaxge  drawn  up  against  him,  for  urging  of  some 
ceremonies,  without  inserting  his  purgation,  which  he  effectually 
made,  clearing  himself  from  the  least  imputation  of  any  fault)  hath 
any  way  augmented  this  opinion,  I  humbly  craye  pardon  of  him  for 
the  Bame. 

^^  Sure  I  am,  were  his  enemies  now  his  judges,  (had  they  the  least 
spark  of  ingenuity,)  they  must  acquit  him,  if  proceeding  according  to 
the  eyidence  of  his  writing.  Hying,  disputing.  Yea,  whilst  he 
remained  in  France,  he  was  the  Atlas  of  the  protestant  religion, 
supporting  the  same  with  his  piety  and  learning,  confirming  the 
warering  therein,  yea,  daily  adding  proselytes  (not  of  the  meanest 
rank)  thereunto. 

''  Since  the  return  of  our  gracious  sovereign,  and  the  reyiving  of 
swooning  Episcopacy,  he  was  desenredly  preferred  bieiiop  of  Durham. 
And  here  the  reader  must  pardon  me,  if  willing  to  make  known  my 
acquaintance  with  so  eminent  a  prelate.  When  one  in  his  presence 
was  pleased  with  some  propositions,  wherein  the  pope  condescended 
somewhat  to  the  protestants,  he  most  discreetly  returned,  in  my  hear- 
ing: ^We  thank  him  not  at  all  for  that  which  God  hath  always 
allowed  us  in  his  word : '  adding  withal,  '  He  would  allow  it  us  so 
long  as  it  stood  with  his  policy,  and  take  it  away  so  soon  as  it  stood 
with  his  power.'  And  thus  we  take  our  leave  of  this  worthy  prelate, 
praying  for  his  long  life,  that  he  may  Be  effectual  in  advancing  the 
setdement  of  our  yet-distracted  church."— Fuller's  "  History  of  the 
Worthies  of  England,"  in  Folio,  pp.  295,  296. 

One  might  have  expected  a  more  ample  apology  than  this  from  such 
a  candid  and  upright  mind  as  Fuller's :  but  when  it  is  recollected  that 
his  '^  History  of  the  Worthies  of  England  "  was  a  posthumous  work, 
and  that  his  death  was  somewhat  sudden,  we  shall  cease  to  blame  the 
worthy  old  historian.-*-EDiT.  J 


TO  THE  RELIGIOUS,  LEARNED,  AND  INGENUOUS 
READER. 

Epistles  to  the  reader,  by  way  of  preparation,  are  properly 
placed  in  the  front  of  a  book ;  but  those  by  way  of  recollection 
follow  best  in  the  rear  thereof.  If  you  have  had  the  leisure  and 
patience  to  peruse  this  book,  you  deserve  the  name  of  a  reader 
indeed  ;  and  I  do  as  heartily  wish,  as  charitably  hope,  thee  qualified 
with  those  three  epithets  wherewith  I  have  entitled  thee.  I  must 
now  accost  thee  in  the  language  of  the  Levite  to  the  tribes  of 
Israel: — ^"Consult,  consider,  and  give  sentence."" 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORV,  BOOK  XI.     671 

Deal  truly  and  unpartiallj  betwi^ct  me  and  the  Animadvertor ; 
please  thine  own  conscience,  though  thou  displeasest  us;  and 
adjudge  in  thyself,  where  neither  of  us-*-where  both  of  u&— ^where 
one  of  us — ^which  one  of  us — ^is  in  the  right.  Only  this  I  will  add, 
for  my  comfort,  ^nd  thy  better  confidence  in  reading  my  book, 
that,  according  to  the  received  rule  in  law,  Ex6q[>tio  firma^  regulam 
in  non-eaceptisj  it  followeth*  proportionably,  that,  Ammadversio 
firmat  reguLam  in  wynHmimad/eerm.  And  if  so,  by  the  tacit  con- 
sent of  my  adversary  himself,  all  other  passages  in  my  book  are 
allowed  sound  and  true,  save  these  few,  which  fall  under  his  reproof; 
and  how  justly,  I  submit  my  cause  to  thy  censure,  and  thy  person 
to  God's  keeping,  remaining 

Thine  in  Jesus  Christ, 

Ceanford  Moat-House.  THOMAS  FULLER. 


TO  Mr  LOVING  FRIEND,  DR.  PETER  HEYLIN. 

I  HOPE,  Sir,  that  we  are  not  mutually  un-friended  by  this 
difference  which  hath  happened  betwixt  us.  And  now,  as  duellers, 
when  they  are  both  out  of  breath,  may  stand  still  and  parley,  before 
they  have  a  second  pass,  let  us  in  cold  blood  exchange  a  word, 
and,  mean  time,  let  us  depose,  at  least,  suspend^  our  animosities. 

Death  hath  crept  into  both  our  clay-cottages  through  the  win- 
dows ;  your  eyes  being  bad,  mine  not  good :  God  mend  them 
both,  and  sanctify  unto  us  these  monitors  of  mortality  ;  and, 
however  it  fareth  with  our  corporeal  sight,  send  our  souls  that 
collyriwm^  and  heavenly  "  eye-salve,''  mentioned  in  Scripture  !  But 
indeed.  Sir,  I  conceive  our  time,  pains,  and  parts  may  be  better 
expended  to  God's  glory,  and  the  church's  good,  than  in  these 
needless  contentions.  Why  should  Peter  fall  out  with  Thomas, 
both  being  disciples  to  the  same  Lord  and  Master  ?  I  assure  you. 
Sir,  (whatever  you  conceive  to  the  contrary,)  I  am  cordial  to  the 
cause  of  the  English  church,  and  my  hoary  hairs  will  go  down  to 
the  grave  in  sorrow  for  her  sufferings. 

You  well  remember  the  passage  in  Homer,  how  wise  Nestor 
bemoaned  the  unhappy  difference  betwixt  Agamemnon  and  Achil- 
les: — 

'*Cl  w&iFoit  ^  fiiya  wivBos  'Kx^^o,  youav  IkAvh, 
''H  Kcv  yjidfiffoti  Uplofios,  UpuifMid  t«  vaZSe; , 
"AAAot  T€  T^cr  fiiya  K€v  K^xxpolaro  ^vfi^f 
El  a^wXy  rd^  wAma  wvBolaro  fMpyafi4voay, 

lUad.  i.  264—267. 

^<  0  gods !  how  great  tke  grief  of  Greece  the  while ; 
And  Priam's  self  and  eons  do  sweetly  smile ; 
Yea>  aU  the  Trojan  party  swell  with  laughter, 
That  Greeks  with  Greefai  fall  out,  and  fight  to  slaughter." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


^J2  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.       PART  lit. 

Let  me,  therefore,  tender  unto  you  an  expedient,  in  tendency  to 
our  mutual  agreement.  You  know  full  well,  Sir,  how,  in  heraldry, 
two  lumeds  rampant  endorsed  are  said  to  be  the  emblem  of  two 
valiant  men,  keeping  appointment  and  meeting  in  the  field,  but 
either  forbidden  [to]  fight  by  their  prince,  or  departing  on  terms  of 
equality  agreed  betwixt  themselves.  Whereupon,  turning  back  to 
back,  neither  conquerors  nor  conquered,  they  depart  the  field 
several  ways,  (their  stout  stomachs  not  suffering  them  both  to  go 
the  same  way,)  lest  it  be  accounted  an  injury  one  to  precede  the 
other. 

In  like  manner,  I  know  you  disdain  to  allow  me  your  equal  in 
this  controversy  betwixt  us ;  and  I  will  not  allow  you  my  superior. 
To  prevent  future  trouble,  let  it  be  a  diawn  battle ;  and  let  both  of 
us  **  abound  in  our  own  sense,*"  severally  persuaded  in  the  truth  of 
what  we  have  written.  Thus,  parting  and  going  out  back  to  back 
here,  (to  cut  off  all  contest  about  precedency,)  I  hope  we  shall 
meet  in  heaven,  fiice  to  face,  hereafter.  In  order  whereunto,  God 
willing,  I  will  give  you  a  meeting,  when  and  where  you  shall  be 
pleased  to  appoint ;  that  we,  who  have  tilted  pens,  may  shake  hands 
together. 

St.  Paul,  writing  to  Philemon  concerning  Onesimus,  saith,  ^^  For 
perhaps  he  therefore  departed  for  a  season,  that  thou  mightest 
receive  him  for  ever.*"  To  avoid  exceptions,  you  shall  be  the  good 
Philemon,  I  the  fugitive  Onesimus.  Who  knoweth  but  that  God, 
in  his  providence,  permitted,  yea,  ordered,  this  difference  to  happen 
betwixt  us,  not  only  to  occasion  a  reconciliation,  but  to  consolidate 
a  mutual  fiiendship  betwixt  us  during  our  lives,  and  that  the  sur- 
vivor (in  God^s  pleasure  only  to  appoint)  may  make  &vourable  and 
respectful  mention  of  him  who  goetli  first  to  his  grave  ?  the  desire 
of  him  who  remains,  Sir, 

A  LOVER  OF  TOUR  PARTS,  AND  AN  HONOURER  OF  YOUR  PERSON, 

THOMAS  FULLER.* 

*  I  do  not  reooDeet  to  have  read  a  letter  In  any  langnage  eqnal  to  tliis ;  the  compofll- 
tion  of  an  old  waRior,  whO|  feeling  that  be  had  obtained  a  weU-oontested  victoiy  over 
bis  brave  antagonist,  could  aflbrd  to  be  geaetooB,  and  allow  bis  captive  to  retire  vitb 
*'  the  bononn  of  war."  The  line  Christian  spirit  which  breathes  throagh  the  whole  of 
this  very  etegant  epistle,  at  once  manly  and  tender,  disarmed  the  wrath  of  Heylin, 
whose  natural  testiness  was  proTeibial,  and  who  compelled  all  his  contemporaries 

«  In  arguing,  too,  to  own  his  wondrous  skill; 
For,  e'en  though  vanquish'd,  he  could  argue  stilL" 

I  am  not  aware,  that  Heylin,  who  survived  Fuller  but  one  year,  ever  complied  with 
the  concluding  request  in  this  letter, — **  to  make  fiivourable  and  respectfiil  meution  of 
him  who  might  go  first  to  his  grave."  In  this  case,  we  may  hope  that  it  was  folly  in 
his  intention  to  render  due  honour  to  the  deceased ;  and  must  in  charity  accept  the  iviQ 
for  the  deed.-«-EDiT. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.      673 

{[The  subsequent  letter  requires  some  explanation^  to  render  it  intelli- 
gible. In  Fuller's  "  Church  History,"  (vol.  iii.  p.  419,)  will  be  found 
"  the*  heads  of  Dr.  Hacket's  very  able  speech,"  delivered  at  the  Bar  of 
the  House  of  Commons,  May  12th,  1641,  in  defence  of  the  rights  and 
property  of  deans  and  chapters,  and  copied  (by  his  leave)  from  his 
papers.  Fuller  then'  informs  us :  "In  the  afternoon  E(r.  Cornelius 
Burgess,  as  speaker  for  his  party,  made  a  vehement  invective  against 
deans  and  chapters,  and  the  unprofitableness  of  such  corporations.  He 
heavily  aggravated  the  debauchedness  of  singing-men,  not  only  useless, 
but  hurtfdj  by  their  vicious  conversations.  Yet  he  concluded  with  the 
utter  unlawfulness  to  convert  such  endowments  to  any  private  person's 
profit.  So  that  the  same  doctrine  was  delivered  by  both  the  doctors, 
only  they  differed  in  their  applications;*  the  former  being  for  the  con-^ 
tinning  such  lands  to  their  ancient — ^the  latter  for  diverting  them  to 
other — ^but  neither  for  alienating  them  from  public  and  pious— employ* 
ments. 

*'  If,  since,  Dr.  Burgess  hath  been  a  large  purchaser  of  such  lands  to 
himself;  if,  since,  St.  Andrew,  the  first  converted — and  St.  Paul  the 
last -converted— apostle  have  met  in  his  purse ;  I  doubt  not  but  that  he 
can  give  sufficient  reason  for  the  same,  both  to  himself  and  any  other 
that  shall  question  him  therein ;  the  rather,  because  lately  he  read  his 
learned  lectures  in  St.  Paul's,  on  ^  the  Criticisms  of  Conscience,'  no 
less  carefully  than  curiously  weighing  satisfaction  to  scruples ;  and,  if 
there  be  any  fault,  so  able  a  confessor  knows  how  to  get  his  absolu- 
tion." 


•  In  his  "  No  Sacrilege  nor  Sin,  &c."  Burgess  aiBnns :  "  Indeed,  Dr.  Burgess  did 
declare  a  concurrence  with  Dr.  Hacket  in  admitting  the  alienation  of  any  thhig  settled 
bj  Divine  right  npon  the  chnrch  to  be  sacrilege ;  bnt  nothing  else.  It  was  far  from  him 
to  grant,  that  all  which  cathedral-men  enjoyed  was  theirs  by  Divine  right,  or  to  admit 
that  it  was  sacrilege  to  aliene  any  other  thing  that  was  theirs  not  by  Divine  right.  He 
intended  no  more  in  that  Answer  than  what  he  had  long  before  published,  (anno  1625,) 
in  a  preface  to  a  little  tract  of  Personal  Tithes,  where  he  thus  expresseth  himself : — *  To 
that  tenet  (namely,  that  tithes  are  due  Jure  divino)  I  subscribe  afiBrmatively,  e»  amnio  / 
but  with  cautions.  1.  Tithes  (I  say  not  aught  else)  are  due  by  Divine' right  to  ministers 
of  the  gospel.  2.  I  never  was,  nor  (I  think)  ever  shall  be,  of  that  opinion,  that  all 
tithes  within  such  or  snch  a  circuit  of  ground,  now  by  positive  law  made  but  one  parish, 
are  absolutely  and  without  all  exception  due  by  Divine  right  to  the  person  of  one  single 
incumbent  there  \  but  to  the  church,  in  whose  name  he  receiveth  them.' — Had  he 
granted  more,  he  had  deviated  from  the  truth.  And  could  it  be  proved  by  an  hundred 
vritnesses,  that  he  fully  concurred  with  Dr.  Hacket  in  this  point,  and  that  sundry,  who 
then  heard  him,  so  understood  him ;  yet  this  cannot  make  sacrilege  to  be,  in  the  tnio 
nature  of  it,  of  larger  extent  than  it  is  indeed :  and,  therefore,  if  he  did  so  speak,  he 
must  and  doth  renounce  it  as  an  error.'' 

This  last  clause  is  a  virtual  admission,  that  Fuller's  summary  is  in  substance  correct. 
But  the  most  amusing  part  of  this  explanation  consists  of  an  addition,  which  he  makes 
in  the  margin,  to  the  last  line  of  the  extract  from  his  tract  on  Personal  Tithes,  He  had 
written,  in  1625,  that  "all  tithes  are  due  by  Divine  right  to  the  church."  The  marginal 
reading  to  the  third  edition  in  1660  is  :  "Or  rather  to  Christ  her  Lord,  and  thereby  to 
her."  How  this  amended  exposition  of  Divine  right  was  intended  to  aid  his  argument 
for  retaining  church -property,  the  intelligent  reader  will  at  once  perceive.~-£DiT, 


X    X 

Digitized  by 


L^oogle 


574  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  IBTNOCENCE.  PAET  III. 

The  Mieasde  alhisioii  to  St.  Andrew  lai  t»  St.  Psnl  in  this  para- 
graph the  reader  will  imderBtand,  when  he  is  tdd«  that,  though  Dr. 
Borgefs  had  heen  chaplain  to  long  Charles  I.  as  eaiiy  as  16^9  yet, 
heiog  one  of  those  flexfl4e  mortals  who  hold  no  yeiy  fixed  principles 
except  that  of  caring  kindly  for  themselTes^  he  entered  heartilj  into 
Ae  leading  Tiewi,  and  defended  the  chief  measures,  which  were 
adopted,  bj  the  moTement-party  of  that  age,  lor  OTertnmiDg  Church 
and  State.  He  was  soon  rewarded  for  his  addre  services,  with  the 
profits  of  the  collegiate  church  of  St  Andrew's,  Wells;  and  subse- 
qnenilj  obtained  a  pensbn  from  the  Long  Parliament  of  four  hundred 
pounds  per  annum  for  his  erening  lecture  at  St.  Paul's  cathedral, 
beside  oflier  emoluments.  This  is  sufficient  to  explain  one  part  of 
Fulle/s  pungent  raillery. 

In  Soobbll's  **  Collections''  will  be  found  an  ordinance  of  the  Leeds 
and  Commons,  in  October  1646,  for  abolishing  *^  the  name,  ^tle,  style, 
and  dignity*  of  archbishops  and  bishops,  and  for  resting  ^' their 
honours,  manors,  lordships,"  &c.  and  ^^  all  tiieir  charters,  deeds,  books, 
writings,"  &c,  in  trustees,  ^  for  the  payment  of  the  just  and  necessaiy 
debts  of  the  kingdom.*  Pursuant  to  which,  in  the  course  of  another 
month,  an  ordinance  was  passed  for  the  sale  of  their  lands,  &a  and  to 
raise  £200,000,  by  way  oi  loan  on  the  joint  security  of  them  and  of 
the  grand  excise.  In  1647,  £42,000  were  raised  on  the  same  security. 
Vox  the  encouragement  of  these  loans,  and  for  the  protection  of  such 
as  were  prompted  by  thdr  cupidity  to  become  purchasers,  those  per- 
sons who  had  preyiously  furnished  money,  plate,  horses,  or  arms  on 
the  inyalid  security  of  ^'  ihe  public  £Edth,*  were,  on  their  adrancing  a 
similar  sum,  to  have  the  whole  of  both  sums  secured  to  them  out  of 
the  more  substantial  security  of  the  bishops'  lands,  manors,  &c.  To 
render  these  sales  as  easy  as  possible  to  scrupulous  consciences,  eyeiy 
purchaser  was  to  be  gulled  with  the  empty  sound  of  the  king's  name, 
to  have  letters-patent  under  the  Great  Seal  of  England,  and  (nomi- 
nally) to  hold  these  grants  of  the  king  in  fealty  only,  according  to  the 
holding  of  the  manor  of  East  Greenwich.  For  which  purpose,  the 
Attorney-  or  Solicitor-General  was  authorized  and  rehired  forthwith, 
on  the  production  of  the  deeds  by  those  who  had  embarked  their  pro- 
perty on  such  a  precarious  tenure,  to  prepare  a  bill  of  grant  in  the 
usual  form,  and  the  Lord  Chancellor  was  authorized  and  required  to 
pass  it  with  all  due  formality.  But  that  which  acted  as  a  powerfdl 
inducenient,  on  most  worldly  minds,  was  the  semblance  of  the  great 
bargains  which  they  would  afford  to  adrenturous  chapmen ;  the  bare 
materials  of  the  dilapidated  edifices,  and  the  timber  cut  down  on  the 
estates,  in  many  instances  being  sold  for  as  much  money  as  had  been 
originally  expended  in  the  entire  purchase.  In  April,  1649,  the 
House  of  Commons,  then  en^ossing  within  itself  the  supreme  autho- 
rity of  the  State,  proceeded  in  the  same  summary  manner  to  alienate 
from  their  original  purposes,  and  to  offer  for  sale,  the  lands,  &c.  of 
deans  and  chapters,  which  were  inrested  in  Parliamentary  Trustees; 


Digitized  by 


Google 


AI^IMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.      675 

and  all  leases  granted  since  Dec.  1st,  1640,  were  declared  to  be  null 
and  Yoid. 

These  must  be  regarded  as  final  ordinances  for  finishing  all  trans- 
actions of  this  kind,  and  ratifying,  as  well  as  a  single  branch  of  the 
Legislature  could  ratify,  all  preyious  and  future  purchases.  But  the 
great  work  of  devastation  and  of  self-appropriation  of  church-estates 
had  generally,  from  the  very  commencement  of  the  war,  been  in  a 
course  of  operation  throughout  the  kingdom ;  measures  having  com- 
iDonlj  been  taken  for  the  sequestration  of  the  whole  or  a  part  of 
ecclesiastical  property,  as  rapidly  as  any  diocess  fell,  by  the  fortune 
of  war,  into  the  hands  of  the  Parliamentary  forces.  At  the  begin- 
ning of  the  war,  upwards  of  £17,000,  which  remained  in  the  Cham- 
ber of  the  city  of  London  towards  the  repairs  of  St  Paul's,  was 
seized,  according  to  an  Order  from  both  Houses  of  Parliament,  for 
assisting  them  to  cany  on  the  war  against  the  king:  most  of  the 
materials  also,  which  had  been  prepared  for  completing  that  great 
work,  were  converted  into  money,  and  applied  to  the  same  warlike 
purposes.  As  early  in  the  war  as  March  12th,  1643,  the  Lord-Mayor 
of  London  and  the  Court  of  Aldermen  were,  by  a  similar  Parlia- 
mentary Order,  *^  appointed  and  authorized  to  seize,  and  sequester 
into  their  hands,  the  houses,  rents,  revenues,"  &c.  of  St.  Paul's 
cathedral;  and  out  of  that  fond  to  pay  to  Dr.  Cornelius  Burgess 
four  hundred  pounds  per  annum  for  preaching  a  lecture  there,  to 
which  Fulla:  makeis  a  humorous  allusion.  Throu^  his  powerful 
republican  friends,  Dr.  Burgess  procured  a  confirmation  of  the  latter 
part  of  this  Order,  by  a  distinct  Parliamentary  ordinance,  engaging 
and  binding  the  whole  revenue  of  St.  Paul's  for  the  payment  of  his 
salary,  and  securing  to  his  use  that  cathedral,  and  the  dean's  house 
adjoining,  in  such  phraseology  as,  from  its  peculiar  stringency, 
in  order  **to  mc^e  assurance  doubly  sure,"  seems  to  have  been  of 
the  greedy  Doctor^s  own  dictation.'^  Having  managed  thus  adroitly 
to  obtain  the  fingering  of  considerable  sums  of  money,  Dr.  Burgess, 
in  1649,  when  chiirch-property  had  become  a  dull  and  unmarketable 
commodity,  invested  nearly  the  whole  of  his  ill-obtmned  lucre  in  its 
purchase,  t  Ekijoying  the  profits  of  his  new  estates  for  some  years, 
and  improving  Ms  rental  to  the  best  advantage,  he  deemed  it  a  duty 
to  employ  some  portion  of  his  learned  leisure  in  attempts  to  correct 
the  crude  notions  which  most  good  Christians  had  previously  enter- 
tained respecting  the  real  nature  of  sacrilege.  Sagaciously  perceiving 
the  signs  of  the  times  after  the  death  of  Cromwell,  the  national 
current  of  feeling  and  opinion  having  begun  to  run  strongly  in  fiivour 
of  discarded  royalty  and  episcopacy,  he  applied  himself  the  more 
fsedulously  to  convince  the  world  that  he  ought  to  retain  all  his  large 

•  See  Husband's  "  Collections,"  fol.  p.  641  .—Edit.  t  Wood,  in  bis  AtheruE, 

enumerates  the  manor  of  Wells,  belonging  to  the  bishop  of  that  See,  and  the  dean's 
house  there,  as  a  part  of  the  purchases  which  Dr  Bnrgess  made  nvith  his  manj  thou- 
aand  pounds. — Edit. 

2x2  n  A 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


676  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  III. 

poflsessions.  The  title  of  the  pamphlet  which  I  hold  is :  ^<  No  Sacrilege 
nor  Sin  to  alienate  or  purchase  Cathedral  Lands,  as  snch :  or,  a  Yii^di- 
oation  of  not  only  the  late  Purchasers,  hat  of  the  ancient  Nobility 
and  Gently,  yea,  of  the  Crown  itself,  all  deeply  wounded  by  the 
false  charge  of  Sacrilege  upon  new  Purchasers.  The  third  Edition, 
reyised  and  abbreviated,  for  the  service  of  the  Parliament :  With  a 
Postscript  to  Dr.  Pearson.  By  C.  BuRaBS,  B.D.^^Who  art  thouj 
that  judgest  afioiher  mans  servant  ?  Romans  xiv.  4. — ^London  : 
Printed  by  James  Cottrel.  1660."  It  is  the  most  precious  piece  of 
special  pleading  by  an  interested  advocate  that  was  ever  penned.  On 
perusing  the  subjoined  letter  to  Buigess,  the  reader  will  learn  that  he 
was  filled  with  indignation  against  Fuller  for  the  humorous  manner 
in  which  he  had  showed  him  up  in  his  "  Church-History."  But  he 
manifested  the  greatest  bitterness  of  spirit  towards  Dr.  Gauden,  who, 
in  his  foHo  volume  of  '^  The  Tears,  Sighs,  &c.  of  the  Church  of 
England,"  had  devoted  an  entire  chapter  to  "  the  Sin  of  Sacril^e, 
'  with  the  Nature  of  it,"  from  which  I  will  give  a  few  extracts ;  and 
who  had  also  '^  declaimed  against  sacrilege  at  St.  Paul's,  the  Temple, 
Westminster,"  Sec  To  palliate,  if  not  refute,  some  of  Gauden  s  charges. 
Burgess  asserts:  ^'He  only  spins  out,  more  like  a  school-boy  than 
a  Doctor,  a  sharp  declaration,  full  of  personal  invectives  and  gross 
ismtruths ;  as,  namely,  the  charging  my  defence  of  tithes  to  have  pro- 
ceeded from  my  desire  to  uphold  two  fat  benefices  ;  whereas  I  have 
had  none  at  all  (either  fat  or  lean)  for  above  these  sixteen  years : 
his  taking  up  and  publishing  a  false  report,  that  I  should  offer  a 
thousand  marks  to  procure  me  a  richer  benefice  ;  whereas  (my  witness 
is  in  heaven)  never  any  such  base  proffer  was  made  by  me,  nor  came 
into  my  thoughts.  It  is  true,  that  a  person  of  honour  came  several 
times  to  my  house,  and  offered  me  (in  the  year  1640)  a  fat  bishopric ; 
which  when  I  refused,  he  then  propounded  another  offer  of  a  thou- 
sand marks  per  annum  for  preaching,  if  I  would  then  have  done  what 
he  would  have  put  me  upon.*  This  is  true ;  and  the  Lord,  who 
knoweth  all  things,  knows  that  I  lie  not.  Then,  he  thinks  to  pay 
me  to  purpose,  for  that  I,  being  a  minister,  &c.  should  Upload  for  such 
alienations  as  he  calleth  ^  sacrilege : '  as  if  this  were  more  improper 
for  me,  than  for  him  (since  that)  to  revile  and  cast  dirt  upon  the 
Solemn  League  and  Covenant  of  God ;  which  both  Houses  of  Par- 
liament, yea,  himself,  and  (which  is  more)  his  present  Majesty  had 
also  religiously  taken  :  of  which  I  resolve  (God  assisting)  to  let  him, 
ere  long,  hear  more ;  he  being  the  ringleader  of  all  those  foul  pam- 

*  Tbis  is  rather  an  unfortunate  fact,  as  it  serves  to  show  a  kind  of  general  impres- 
sion then  prevalent,  that  Dr.  Burgess  vras  a  man  who  had  his  price  :  and  if  the  other 
party  offered  him  a  better  price,  he  proved  himself  to  be  flexible  enongh  to  accept  it. 
In  regard  to  his  ttvo  fai  benefices,  he  is  correct  in  asserting,  that,  '*  for  above  sixteen 
years,"  he  had  held  "  none  at  all  j "  his  tennre  of  St.  Andrew's  and  St.  Paul's  not 
being  in  the  form  of  benefices,  according  to  the  current  acceptation  of  that  virord.— 
Edit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.      677 

phlets  against  the  CoYenant,  to  entice  and  tempt  those  that  have 
taken  it  to  renounce  it,  and  so  to  bring  Zedekiah's  punishment  upon 
botii  king  and  kingdom. — If  any  shall  thunder  out  volleys  of  eminent 
protestant  divines  against  what  I  have  here  undertaken,  I  resolve  to 
strike  sail  to  nothing  but  scripture,  or  unto  arguments  taken  thence ; 
and  rather  imitate  one  Athanasius,  who  chose  to  go  alone  with  the 
truth  when  all  the  world  was  turned  Arian;  and  one  Paphnutius, 
when  the  generality  of  that  first  grand  Council  of  Nice  inclined 
another  way;  than  to  run  with  the  stream,  or  to  join  with  the 
loudest  outcries  of  interested  parties,  to  admit  that  to  be  sacrilege 
which,  upon  due  examination,  appears  not  to  be  any  sin  at  all." 
This  last  sentence  is  important  in  showing,  that  all  good  men  of 
his  own  party  disowned  him,  refusing  to  be  partakers  of  his  sin 
even  by  connivance;  and  he  was  left  "as  a  sparrow  alone  on  the 
house-top." 

A  few  passages  from  Dr.  Gauden  on  "the  sin  of  sacrilege,"  will 
afford  the  reader  both  instruction  and  amusement: — "No  bank  or 
rampart  is  sufficient  to  keep  out  this  Black  and  Dead  Sea,  when  once 
it  hath  undermined  the  common  principles  of  gratitude,  reverence, 
and  worship  toward  God,  of  justice  and  righteousness  toward  men  : 
which  it  is  very  like  to  do,  when  I  find  Dr.  B.,  a  man  of  my  own 
coat  and  calling,  a  professed  presbyter  or  minister  heretofore  accord- 
ing to  the  ordination  of  the  Church  of  England,  who  hath  the  cha- 
racter of  holy  orders  by  bishops'  hands  still  upon  him  unrenounced ; 
. — when,  I  say,  such  men  come  to  be  proctors  and  promoters,  patrons, 
pleaders,  and  solicitors  (in  any  case)  for  Qthe]  alienating  of  those 
church-lands  which  belonged  to  the  bishops,  deans,  and  chapters: 
the  issue,  indeed,  of  difficult,  distressed,  and  turbulent  times,  which, 
it  noay  be,  necessity  rather  than  choice  drove  some  men  to ;— yet  this 
in  cool  blood  must  be  applauded  by  a  grave  O,  that  so  he,  a  late  pur- 
chaser, may  have  part  of  that  blessed  Cobban  which,  he  knows,  did 
some  time  belong  to  his  mother  this  church,  and  to  his  fathers  the 
bishops  of  it :  whose  right  to  keep  what  they  had  by  law  was,  I  sup- 
pose, once  undoubtedly  as  good  as  any  that  this  or  any  man  can  plead 
for  what  (it  seems)  he  never  yet  had  possession  of.  Sure,  it  was  as 
just  for  those  to  have  kept  their  estates,  as  it  can  be  for  him  to  get 
part  of  it.  He  cannot  strengthen  his  own  private  and  purchased 
title,  but  he  must  justify  theirs  more  who  had  received  and  enjoyed 
them  as  public  ministers,  governors,  and  officers  of  the  church,  upon 
a  public  title,  both  civil  and  sacred. — ^To  allege  that  their  estates  and 
lordships  were  superfluous,  ill-bestowed  and  ill-used,  is  to  calumniate 
or  envy  so  many  worthy-  persons,  (every  way  his  equals  at  least,)  that 
were  bishops,  deans,  and  prebends  in  England ;  who,  without  perad- 
venture,  were  every  way  as  learned,  as  liberal,  as  unspotted,  as  useful, 
as  beloved  of  God  and  man,  as  deserving  their  estates  and  preferments, 
as  ever  this  pleader  (without  disparagement)  was  or  is,  by  any  men 
on  any  side,  thought  to  deserve  his  Doctorship,  or  Watford,  or  St» 


Digitized  Jay 


Google 


678  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCSNCS.  PAST  III. 

Kagniuiy  or  Paul's  lectorey  or  any  part  and  portum  of  Lidiopi^  lands, 
or  deaniT  and  prebend^  houses. 

^For  he  needlessly  deprecates  ihe  odium  and  enTj  of  hang  for- 
ward in  giving  the  handsel,  nnless  he  had  at  fbrst  some  gmmbliiigB 
and  cold  qualms  about  his  heart,  as  either  unsatisfied  of  the  lawful- 
ness, or  fearing  that  bishops  might  recover  their  places  and  estates 
again.  Till  he  thought  them  as  good  as  dead  and  past  reooyeiy,  (as 
the  Amaleldte  that  dispatched  long  Saul,)  he  would  not  put  forth  his 
hand  against  them,  or  the  spoSs  of  them.  But  being,  it  seems, 
embarked  in  a  fair  adTentore  of  some  thousands  of  pounds  (at  eight 
per  cent.  I  suppose)  in  the  safe  Castor  and  Pollux  of  the  puUic  &ith, 
(for  which  the  honour  of  fhe  two  Houses  of  Ptoliament  was  engaged,) 
he  was  loath  to  perish  with  his  money,  (principal  and  interest  too,)  or 
to  be  saved  without  it,  as  many  an  honest  man  is  £Eun  to  be. — ^I  know, 
his  grand  asylum  is  the  plenipotency,  if  not  omnipotency,  as  he  sup- 
poseth,  of  the  two  Houses  of  Parliament,  guided  by  the  honesty  and 
integrity  of  their  intentions.  I  will  with  him  presume,  that  they  did 
intend  all  things  for  the  best ;  that,  finding  the  north  wind  had  raised 
a  great  storm,  they  thought  it  necessary  to  lighten  the  ship  of  what 
they  tiiought  might  best  be  spared,  in  order  to  the  public  peace,  and 
that  which  they  accounted  the  supreme  law,  salus  publican  and, 
being  all  laymen,  much  actuated  at  that  time  by  Presbyterian 
influences  and  interest,  who  promised  to  steer  the  ship  much  better 
and  with  more  right  from  God  than  any  prelates  had  done,  they  cast 
bishops,  deans,  prebends,  and  chapters,  &c.  with  their  houses,  lands, 
and  revenues,  over-board,  in  the  present  distress  and  tempest, — ^not 
for  that  they  disliked  them  so  much,  as  because  they  could  not  safely 
keep  them  and  carry  on  their  other  interests  of  public  safety.  These 
and  the  like  reasons  of  State  may  possibly  be  alleged  in  behsQf  of 
those  laymen,  who  had  then  work  enough  upon  their  hands,  and  who 
were  to  get  wages  to  pay  their  workmen  with  the  least  grievance  to 
the  public.  But  this  plaintifi^,  as  a  learned  doctor  and  grave  divine, 
must  pass  a  stricter  scrutiny.  I  will  put  a  case  or  query  to  this  great 
vindicator :  What  would  he  have  thougl(t  of  those  men  who  voted 
or  created  themselves  a  Parliament, — ^that  is,  the  supreme  power  as 
deputies  or  representative  of  the  English  people,  though  not  chosen 
by  the  people, — ^if  these  grandees  had  gone  on,  and  had  peremptorily 
voted  this  good  Doctor,  with  all  other  beneficed  ministers  in  England 
and  Wales,  out  of  their  beloved  glebes,  tithes,  and  mansion-houses  ? 
Who  would  have  cried  *  Sacrilege !  *  with  greater  contention  of  voice 
and  lungs,  than  this  venerable  resolver  of  No  Sacrilege  in  selling 
Bishops'  Lands?  ^0!  but  this,'  he  tells  us  freely  and  with  some 
earnestness,  *had  been  horrid  sacrilege^'  because  of  those  Cglebes, 
tithes,  and  mansions]]  he  hath  a  good  share ;  those  he  hopes  to  enjoy, 
together  with  his  bishops'  lands!  Thus  this  irrefragable  Doctor 
resolves,  that  to  rob  the  lesser  gods  is  sacrilege,  but  not  to  rob  the 
greater.    Bishops  were  but  Egyptians,  whom  the  Presbyterians,  as 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THB  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.      679 

triie  Israelites,  might  strip  and  spoil !  So  it  were  a  sin  to  take  any 
thing  from  an  ordinary  citizen  and  common  soldier,  but  not  from  an 
alderman  or  colonel !  It  is  lawful  to  deprive  goyemors  in  church  or 
State  of  what  they  have,  but  not  the  governed !  Presbyters  must,  jure 
>  divino,  have  meat,  and  diink,  aad  clothes  to  maintain  them,  that  they 
may  eat  and  preach ;  but  they  need  no  overseers  or  church'^govemors 
to  take  care  they  preach  no  strange  doctrine,  nor  live  scandalously ! 
They  must  have  victuals  as  beasts;  but  they  need  no  government 
as  men,  Christians,  and  ministers!  O  thrifty  project!  O  blessed 
paradox !  If  it  hold  in  all  societies  civil  and  military,  as  well  as 
ecclesiastic,  it  will  spare  the  State  many  thousands  of  pounds  upon 
the  civil  account,  as  it  hath  got  it  many  upon  the  church-accoimt. 
No  more  will  there  need  any  judges  in  the  law,  nor  captains  and 
colonels  in  the  army :  their  places,  their  pensions,  their  pay  may  be 
spared.  If  these  be  necessary,  why  were  not  bishops  so,  for  order, 
and  honour,  and  government,  and  judgment  among  the  clergy  ?  But 
he  fancies  that  himself  and  other  doughty  presbyters  can  do  the  work, 
and  govern  without  bishops.  Possibly  he  may  do  it  the  better,  not 
only  for  his  grave  carriage  and  reverend  fashion  of  living,  for  his 
moderate,  meek,  and  quiet  spirit,  ibr  his  great  learning  and  rare  endow- 
ments, for  the  high  esteem  that  is  had  of  him ;  but  especially  because 
he  is  rich,  and  hath  a  goo4  part  of  the  old  bishops'  lands  :  it  may  be 
a  spirit  of  government  may  go  with  them,  as  a  spirit  of  prophecy 
did  with  the  high-priest's  office  in  Caiaphas.  But  as  for  other  poorer 
presbyters  and  petty  rulers,  of  his  brethren  the  anti-episcopal  ministers, 
how  fit  they  will  be  to  govern  in  common,  and  how  well  they  have 
m&naged  Phcebus's  chariot  since  they  undertook  to  drive  it,  I  leave  to 
all  wise  and  sober  men  to  judge. 

^^  O !  but  his  blessed  tithes,  his  rich  glebe,  his  &t  parsonage, — ^these, 
these  he  challenges  as  his  right  in  God's  name,  as  patrimonium  Cruci^ 
Jlxi^  '  Christ's  patrimony,'  the  Presbyterian  church's  dowry,  the  priests' 
portion,  the  Levites'  wages,  the  labourers'  hire,  the  most  holy  things 
and  utterly  unalienable  i  Even  impropriations  seem  to  him  sacri- 
legious alienations,  derived  from  no  other  title  than  the  pope's  usurpa- 
tion, annexing  them  to  monasteries,  and,  by  a  continued  succession  of 
sacrilege,  given  to  the  Crown,  and  so  at  last  become  lay-fees.  Thus 
he  seems  to  make  princes  and  parliametits  guilty,  at  the  second  hand, 
of  this  foul  sin  of  sacrilege ;  which  only  lies  against  tithes,  glebes,  and 
parsonage-houses, — the  only  preferment,  it  seems,  that  this  phuntiff 
hath  been  capable  of,  or  now  aspires  to  ! — ^Truly,  it  might  seem  venial 
for  secular  and  military  men,  in  cases  of  civil  urgencies  (and,  as  they 
imagined,  necessities)  of  self-preservation,  to  seize  upon  the  shew- 
bread,  the  priests'  portion,  and  Goliath's  sword  too,  as  David  and  his 
men  did  by  the  good  leave  of  the  priests.  But  it  had  become  a 
clergyman  and  an  eminent  one,  who  stUl  owns,  I  think,  his  academic 
degrees  as  deserved,  and  his  ecclesiastic  orders  from  the-  bishop's  hands 
as  holy  and  valid ;  I  say,  it  had  become  such  an  one  at  least  to  have 


Digitized  by 


Google 


680  APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  III. 

l>eeii  silent,  who  is  too  rich  and  knowing  to  he  a  Lereller,  or  an  Ana- 
haptist,  or  a  Quaker,  or  a  disowner  of  all  order  and  office  ministerial. 
However,  if  he  conld  not  avoid  this  rock  of  purchasing  bbhops'  lands, 
his  modesty  had  been  some  expiation,  and  his  silence  a  great  abate- 
ment, of  the  scandal.  He  might  have  swallowed  those  holy  (but  now 
desecrated)  morsels  in  secret,  and  not  have  proclaimed  on  the  house- 
top, to  all  the  world,  the  roast-meat  he  hath  gotten,  the  venison 
which  he  hath  taken,  together  with  his  great  appetite  and  good  diges- 
tion. The  world  is  not  much  concerned  to  know  all  these  things,  nor 
much  pleased  at  his  swallowing  down,  without  chewing,  any  bit  of 
bishops'  lands,  or  deans'  houses,  or  a  whole  college,  or  a  cathedral 
church,  if  he  can  compass  them  by  his  purse  or  policy  :  for,  where  a 
crumb  of  this  kind  goes  easily  down,  in  time  a  loaden  cart  with  six 
horses  may  follow. — Churchmen  ought,  in  any  things  of  pregnant 
scandal,  to  be  most  circumspect*  and  cautious ;  because  their  example 
is  most  contagious,  allowing,  as  it  were  qf  course^  many  grains  of 
further  liberty  to  laymen,  who  never  think  that  their  girdles  ought  to 
be  so  strait  as  ministers' :  if  ours  be  loose,  theirs  will  be  unbuclded, 
and  at  last  quite  thrown  off.  Hence  many  of  our  domestic  and  new- 
started  Presbyterians,  whom  I  well  knew,  Mr.  C,  Mr.  W.,  Mr.  S., 
and  others,  with  all  the  Smectymnuan  legion,  who  were  earnest 
enough  at  first  for  the  pruning  of  the  overgrown,  or  sear,  or  too  much 
over-dropping  boughs  of  episcopacy,  and  afterward  they  so  far  seryed 
the  times  and  their  lords,  as  to  conspire  to  the  felling-down  of  those 
ancient  and  stately  standards  in  the  church ;  yet  I  well  know,  they 
never  intended  that  laymen  should  have  gone  away  with  the  bark, 
tops,  timber,  bodies,  chips  and  aU.  No :  they  (good  men !)  intended 
very  honestly  and  zealously,  that  these  superfluities  of  bishops'  and 
deans'  estates,  &c.  should  have  been  applied  to  buy-in  all  impropria- 
tions, to  augment  poor  livings,  to  put  Presbyters  generally  into  so 
good  a  plight  and  habit  for  back  and  beUy,  that  they  might  be  fit  to 
rule  in  common,  and  have  some  majesty  (as  aldermen  of  cities  and 
burgesses  of  towns  usually  have)  in  their  cheeks  and  on  their  backs : 
for,  starveling  and  thread-bare  governors,  like  consumptionary  physi- 
cians, discredit  their  profession,  and  depreciate  their  dignity.  We 
other  poor  ministers,  who  follow  the  sense  of  all  the  ancient  Fathers 
and  Coimcils,  of  the  canon  and  civil  laws,  of  schoolmen  and  casuists, 
of  Reformed  and  not-reformed  churches,  both  Greek  and  Latin, — ^we 
wonder  what '  angel  from  heaven'  hath  whispered  to  this  purchaser  and 
pleader,  to  tell  him  of  God's  non-acceptance  of  bishops'  lands,  persons, 
or  profession,  of  which  He  was  pleased  to  make  so  much  and  so  good 
use,  to  His  glory  and  His  church's  good,  both  in  England  and  in  all 
the  Christian  world,  for  a  thousand*  years.  Yet  now  He  is  content,  it 
seems,  they  should  all  be  alienated,  extirpated,  destroyed,  as  unneces- 
sary, yea,  pernicious,  to  the  church  and  ministry,  in  honour,  order, 
government,  charity,  and  hospitality  :  all  which  are  better  reformed  to 
parity,  popularity,  and  poverty  !     This  he  reports  as  from  the  cabinet* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH -HISTORY,  BOOK  XI.      Qgl 

council  or  committee  of  heayen^ where,  it  seems,  he  hath  been  since 
tie  purchased  bishops'  lands.  Truly,  if  *  an  angel  from  heaven'  had 
told  some  divines  and  other  gentlemen  thus  much,  they  would  not 
have  believed  him ;  because  they  are  persuaded  so  much  of  the  evan- 
gelical order,  the  apostolic  authority,  and  the  catholic  succession,  the 
prudent  necessity,  the  honourable  decency,  of  bishops  in  the  church  of 
Christ.  Upon  which  presumptions,  (if  not  sure  persuasions,)  they 
conceive,  it  had  been  a  modesty  in  all  learned  and  weighty  ministers, 
who  had  received  their  ordination  from  godly,  orthodox,  and  Beformed 
bishops,  not  to  have  touched  so  much  as  a  shoe-latchet  of  what,  by 
law,  right,  and  merit,  had  been  theirs;  that  it  might  at  least  have 
been  upon  record  to  after-ages,  for  the  honour  of  the  English 
Beformed  clergy  in  their  lowest  ebb  and  depression  :  Ecclesice  et  epis- 
coporum  bona  inter  Preshyteros  ecclesiasticos  non  invenerunt  empto- 
rem.*  There  is  no  doubt,  there  would  have  been  buyers  enough 
beside ;  men  of  larger  estates,  yet  not  of  stricter  consciences.  Even  this 
great  and  glorious  purchaser  seemed  not  at  first  so  satisfied  as  to  be 
forward, — not  ^  coming  at  the  beginning  of  the  fidr,'  when,  sure,  the 
best  pennyworths,  for  example's  sake,  would  have  been  sold  to  so  emi- 
nent a  Doctor,  the  better  to  decoy-on  other  purchasers.  But,  alas !  he 
seems,  ohtorto  coUo  et  renitente  Minerva^  '  against  his  genius,'  to  be 
drawn  in,  driven,  and  necessitated,  at  the  fag  end  of  the  market,  to 
take  such  eggs  for  his  money  as  had  been  sate  upon  by  a  bishop  so 
many  hundreds  of  years,  and  may  be  either  addle,  or  eggs  of  conten- 
tion, to  this  purchaser,  now  so  resolved  and  triumphing  in  his  consci- 
entious freedom  to  buy  and  sell  in  the  temple;  when  other  poor 
scholars  are  still  wind-bound  and  narrow-souled,  as  imagining  that 
Christ  long  ago  drove  all  such  kind  of  merchandise  out  of  the  church, 
as  ill-becoming  Christians  as  it  did  the  Jews ;  yea,  and  St.  Paul 
teacheth  believers  equally  to  abhor  sacrilege  as  idols." 

The  introduction  of  these  long  paragraphs  requires  np  apology.  Written 
nearly  two  hundred  years  ago,  they  will  be  perused  with  some  interest 
by  those  who  are  observant  of  current  events,  and  whose  acquaintance 
with  mental  philosophy  qualifies  them  to  form  a  correct  judgment  of 
the  marked  similarity  to  be  found  in  the  constitution  of  human  liature 
in  all  ages,  how  diversified  soever  may  be  the  character  of  the  external 
developements  of  the  mind,  according  to  the  various  influences  which 
are  presented  to  it,  and  which  act  upon  it  as  motives.  When  circum- 
stances, such  as  those  which  have  been  here  detailed,  become  matter 
of  history,  in  reference  either  to  individual  men  or  to  nations,  it  is  in 
accordance  with  the  best  interests  of  mankind  that  they  should  be 
faithftdly  narrated,  for  purposes  of  public  warning  and  instruction. 
Many  of  those  who  in  our  days  declaim  most  loudly  against  tithes, 
advowsons,  cathedral-property,  &c.,  &c.,  (intermingling  in  one  mass^ 

•  "  Among  the  Presbyterian  clergy  ecclesiastical  possessions  and  the  property  of 
bishops  have  found  no  purchasers."— Edit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


APPEAL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCK.  PART  III. 

with  wonderful  inoongraify,  things  which  stand  in  a  very  different 
rehtioA  towards  each  othei^}  are  ohyioiislj  qpMrant  of  the  origin  and 
natore  of  all  sach  property,  and  of  ihe  manner  in  widdi,  in  this  fiee 
and  Protestant  country,  it  is  dore-tailed  among  the  possesions  of 
general  society,  and  has,  in  numerous  instances,  served  as  a  profitahle 
mode  of  inyestment  to  rich  men,  whose  attachment  to  the  church  of 
England  has  not  been  Tery  prominent.  When  changed  with  the 
disastrous  consequences,  wldch$  in  the  glass  of  History,  they  might 
perceire  must  ensue  from  the  crude  and  intemperate  measures  of  their 
recommendation,  these  innocents  may  in  arUess  simplicity  answer, 
with  Haaael  the  Syrian,  **  But  what,  are  thy  servants  dogs,  that  they 
should  do  this  great  thing  ?  *  Whateyer  the  modem  leaders  of  these 
persons  may  venture  to  urge  in  favour  of  their  own  vast  uprightness  of 
intention.  Dr.  Burgess  could  plead  nothing  of  this  kind  in  excuse. 
From  the  commencement  of  our  national  troubles,  he  had  chosen  his 
party ;  and,  with  the  cool  and  calculating  policy  of  a  desperate  charac- 
ter, had  resolved,  in  the  contemplated  public  scramble,  to  obtain  for 
himself  a  goodly  share  of  plunder.  With  this  undisguised  object  in 
view,  he  concerted  aU  his  plans,  made  plausible  speeches  concerning 
ihe  abuses  of  the  episcopal  church,  and  united  most  cordially  in  the 
vociferations  of  the  more  ignorant  rabble  when  they  cried  oat,  ^'  Raze 
it,  raze  it,  even  to  the  foundation  thereof!" 

But  a  moral  may  always  be  gleaned  from  such  exhibitions  of  principles 
as  those  which  the  reader  has  now  perused ;  and.  it  shall  be  furnished 
by  Dr.  Cornelius  Burgess  himself,  in  a  Sermon,  to  which  he  gave  the 
title  of  "  The  Necessity  of  Agreement  with  God,"  "  preached  to  the 
right  honourable  the  noble  House  of  Peers,  assembled  in  Parliament, 
upon  the  29th  of  October,  1645,  being  ihe  monthly  Fast"  He  assumes 
to  himself  a  style  above  that  of  any  of  his  Presbyterian  brethren — 
*' Preacher  of  the  word  to  the  citt  of  London  :"  a  laige  com- 
mission, of  which  he  was  very  proud,  and  for  which  he  had  been 
qualified,  upwards  of  two  years,  by  the  Parliamentary  ordinance  of 
which  mention  has  already  been  made  in  page  675.  It  appears  that 
many  of  his  noble  auditory,  as  well  as  the  preacher,  were  tinctured 
with  the  sin  of  covetousness ;  for,  after  he  had  very  skilfully  cleared 
his  way,  he  showed  at  length,  that  the  doctrine  of  his  text  was  "  a 
full  agreement  with  Qod,"  and  adds  : — 

"  This  is,  I  confess,  a  plain  point,  but  of  such  great  and  universal 
concernment,  that  should  I  spend  the  whole  time  aUotted  for  this 
exercise  in  the  very  repeating  of  it  over  and  over  again,  I  might  well 
avow  it  (as  sometimes  Latimer  said,  in  a  sermon  at  Court,  touching 
those  words.  Take  heed  and  beware  of  covetousness)  to  be  the  best- 
spent  time  that  ever  I  had  the  happiness  to  employ  in  such  an 
honourable  audience,  and  the  best  service  that  ever  was  performed  to 
you,  if  God  should  please  to  set  it  home  upon  your  spirits.  Bat, 
because  such,  I  should  soon  preach  to  the  bare  walls,  by  running 
such  a  course. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ARIMiOnnBSSIOKS  ON  THS  CHtTBCH-HISTOItY^  BOOK  XI. 

*^ADt^tkgx  flcd^tme  yon  bare  in  ProTerbfl  xL  18:  ^The  wicked 
wotketii  a  deceitfiil  work:  Int  to  him  ihat  aoweth  idghteommess 
sliall  be  a  sure  reward/  Wicked  men  many  times  pretend  Teiy  fiur 
for  God :  they  hare  many  specious  and  glorions  pretences  to  Yamish 
oyer  and  carry  on  their  private  interests  and  self-ends.  They  can 
work  upon,  and  make  advantage  of,  every  humour,  of  every  season. 
If  GAIN  be  the  likeliest  lure,  Demetrius  knows  how  to  raise  a  whole 
city  in  an  instant,  to  banish  Paul  and  his  company  from  Ephesus,  if 
he  but  once  tell  them,  Sirs^  ye  know  that  by  this  craft  we  have  our 
wealth!  This  is  argument  enough  to  uphold  the  grossest  idolatry 
in  the  world,  among  men  that  care  for  no  other  godliness  but  gain% 
(Acts  xix.)  If  religion  be  in  fashion,  they  can,  with  Herod,  make 
great  show  of  devotion,  and  court  John  Baptist  with  extraordinary 
respects;  hoping  that  their  fawning  upon,  and  complimental  complying 
with,  a  man  so  eminent  among  the  people,  may  make  them  pass  for 
religious  men,  and  carry  on  any  design  under  colour  of  religion,  with 
which  the  multitude  (they  know)  are  sometimes  more  moved  than 
with  their  own  gain  or  liberties.  But,  however  they  may  cozen 
imcautious  inen  for  a  while,  yet  mendacia  non  diu  fallent^  hypocrisy 
will  at  length  be  unmasked,  their  glozings  will  be  in  time  discovered ; 
and  then  all  that  they  have  done  will  prove  but  a  deceitful  work  to 
themselves,  as  it  was  before  unto  others.  Yea,  their  craft  will  deceive 
none  so  much  as  themselves.  Only  they  who  are  upright  and  sincere 
vfith  God,  that  ^  sow  righteousness,'  as  men  that  are  agreed  with  God 
and  are  for  God  in  uprightness,  '  reap  a  sure  reward,'  because  God 
walks  for  ever  with  them.  ^  The  end  of  such  men  i«  peace.'  (Psalm 
xxxvii.  37.)" 

One  of  '^the  uses  of  this  sound  doctrine"  is  soon  related.  Dr. 
Calamy,  in  his  '^Account"  of  ejected  Ministers,  concludes  his  dis- 
creetly brief  notice  of  Dr.  Cornelius  Burgess  in  these  words  : — "  By 
them  Qthe  Long  Parliament^  he  was  fixed  in  an  eVening  lecture  at 
Paul's,  with  a  pension  of  £400  per  annum.  He  laid  out  all  he  had 
in  bishops'  land ;  which,  upon  the  king's  restoration,  was  entirely  lost. 
He  retired  afterwards  to  his  house  at  Watford,  where  he  lived  pri- 
vately, and  was  reduced  to  straits.    He  died  in  June,  1605." 

The  subjoined  letter  of  Fuller  to  Burgess  requires  from  me  no  further 
elucidation.^ 

TO   DB.    CORNELIUS    BUBGESS. 

Sib,  I  could  have  wished,  that,  in  your  book  cntituled,  "A  Case 
concerning  the  Bujdng  of  Bishops^  Lands,  with  the  Lawfulness  there- 
of," &c.  you  had  forborne  this  following  expression  against  me : — 

*'  As  that  flashy,  jeering  author  of  the  late-published  History 
of  the  Chwrch  (upon  hearsay  only,  and  out  of  resolution  calummari 
fortiter)  hath  faJsely  reported  him.*"  (Part  i.  page  7.) 

Let  us  go  back  to  the  occasion  of  these  words.  When  Dr. 
Racket,  May  11th,  1641,  made  a  speech,  in  behalf  of  the  Deans 


Digiti 


zed^byL^OOgle 


384  APP£AL  OF  INJURED  INNOCENCE.  PART  III. 

and  Chapters  of  EDgland,  for  the  preventing  of  the  alienation  of 
their  lands  and  revenues,  jou  returned  an  answer  thereunto ;  and 
about  the  conclusive  result  thereof  is  our  present  contest. 

You  say,  you  only  concluded  I  report,  you  concluded  Deans' 
those  things  unalienable  from  the  and  Chapters^  lands  alienable, 
church  which  were  settled  upon  without  sin  of  sacrilege,  firom 
it  by  Divine  right.  that  particular  use ;    yet  so  as 

that  they  ought  still  to  be  pre- 
served to  the  church  in  general. 

I  confess,  I  neither  was,  nor  might  be,  present  in  the  Parlia- 
ment; and,  therefore,  must  take  it  on  '^  hearsay.^  However,  I 
distinguish  on  hearsay,  which  is  double  :  1.  Hearsay  common  : 
2.  Hearsay  credible. 

I  conceive  mine  to  be  of  the  latter  and  better  sort.  And  I  have 
no  other  way  to  defend  myself  than  by  appealing  to  many  members 
of  the  House  then  present,  still  alive,  and  firmly  remembering  that 
transaction. 

Surely,  Sir,  the  Parliament  never  brought  into  question,  "  whe- 
ther things  might  be  alienated  from  the  church,  which  by  Divbe 
right  were  settled  thereon."  It  was  inconsistent  with  their  pru- 
dence ;  amounting,  in  effect,  to  this  question,  "  Whether  God's  or 
their  power  were  the  highest ! ''  And,  Sir,  if  you  concluded  no 
more  than  what  you  say,  you  concluded  what  was  never  controverted 
by  any  Christian. 

Whereas  you  call  me  a  "  flashy  writer,''  God  forbid  that  in  all 
my  books  such  a  flash  of  folly  and  falsehood  should  be  found  as 
falls  from  your  pen  in  your  own  praise  ! — "Albeit  Dr.  Burgess  pcr- 
formeth  more  service  in  that  church  than  any  bishop  that  ever  sat 
there."  (Part  i.  page  32,  lines  30,  31.) 

I  read.  Acts  x.  2,  of  a  Cornelius  praised  by  God  for  his 
prayers  and  alms  :  but  you  are  the  first  of  the  name  who,  publicly 
in  print,  commendeth  himself. 

And  as  for  the  bishops  of  that  See,  have  you  forgotten  William 
Barlow,  who,  in  the  Marian  days,  eaml  in  Germanid  inopem 
mtam^  utpotuit^  toleramt^*  preaching  a  practical  sermon  of  patience 
and  contentedness  to  all  posterity,  whilst  another  usurped  his  habi- 
tation ?  What  shall  I  speak  of  Still,  Montague,^  &c.  ?  What 
proportion,  I  pray,  doth  a  petty  Brook  bear  to  a  large  Lake  ?  f 

•  Goodwin  in  Episc,  Bath  et  fFelU.  f  I>r-  John  Still,  James  Monntague, 

and  Arthur  Lake,  were  consecutively  bishops  of  Bath  and  Wells.  But  the  latent  play 
upon  names  in  this  sentence,  (a  practice  to  which  I  have  previously  referred,  in  page 
676,)  will  be  perceived  in  Brook  and  Lake  ;  and  the  reader  will  be  able  to  make  him- 
self master  of  this  flitting  aUuaion,  by  reading  Fuller's  account  of  lord  Brooke's  book 
against  bishopi  in  pages  229,  615  of  this  volume,  and  in  his  «  Church- History,"  vol.  iu. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


ANIMADVERSIONS  ON  THE  CHURCH-HISTORY,  BOOK  XL        685 

If  I  be  a  floBhy  writer,  you  should  have  been  so  careful  as  not  to 
have  brought  fuel  in  your  book,  vhich  I  so  soon  may  bum  to 
ashes  : — 

"And  that  this  was  the  highway  wherein  the  popish  clergy  of 
England,  long  before  (as  well  as  since)  the  Conquest,  constantly 
travelled,  take  one  testimony  more  of  that  famous  Gildas  the  elder, 
sumamed  Sapiens:  who,  being  a  Briton  presbyter,  within  the 
sixth  century,  or  *  hundred  of  years,'  after  Christ,  thus  chargeth  the 
popish  clergy  of  his  time,  who  had  sucked  their  principles  from 
Augustine  the  monk,  sent  from  Rome  on  purpose  to  advance  the 
state  and  pomp  of  the  clergy,  under  colour  of  planting  the  Christian 
faith  in  England.  For  thus  he  saith,  Britannia  habet  sacerdotes^ 
(Jrc. :  '  Britain,'  saith  he,  *  hath  priests,  but  some  of  them  very 
dolts:  very  many  ministers,  but  many  of  them  impudent  ones: 
clergymen,  but  very  thieves  *  or  cheaters :  pastors,  as  they  are 
termed,  but  (in  truth)  wolves,  standing  to  slay  and  flay  the  souls  of 
the  sheep  :  for  that  they  seek  not  the  good  of  the  people,  but  the 
cramming  of  their  own  bellies.  They  have  church-houses,  but  they 
never  repair  to  them,  unless  for  their  own  filthy  lucre.' "  (Part  i. 
page  20.) 

But  know,  Sir,  that  herein  you  are  much  mistaken  in  your  chro- 
nology; for  Gildas  died,  saith  Archbishop  Usher,  (in  his  Index 
Chronolog.^  page  1144,)  in  the  year  of  our  Lord,  570.  Augustine 
the  monk  came  not  over  into  England  until  the  year  596,  as  is 
notoriously  known  to  all  that  open  a  book. 

I  am,  therefore,  confident,  that  Gildas's  complaint  related  only  to 
his  countrymen  the  British  clergy,  without  the  least  reflection  on 
the  Saxon,  which  as  yet  were  unconverted  Pagans.  And,  therefore, 
to  say  they  had  sucked  in  principles  from  Augustine  the  monk,  is 
an  anti-chronism  which  cannot  be  justified. 

Respect,  Sir,  to  your  age,  degree,  and  profession,  charms  my  pen 
into  some  reverence  unto  you ;  and  because,  I  hear,  abler  men  are 
undertaking  your  confutation,  I  add  no  more,  but  reinain, 
Your  loving  friend, 

THOMAS  FULLER. 

page  428.  The  point  of  the  remark  would  be  keenly  felt  by  Dr.  Burgess,  who  with 
fnlsoine  adulation  courted  the  patronage  of  the  lord  Brooke  and  others,  leaders  of  that 
party. — Edit.  •  The  Latin  word  being  raptores,  might  (by  the  Doctor's 

favom-)  be  better  Englished  "  plunderers." 


END    OF    THE    APPEAL    OF    INJURED    INNOCENCE. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


DESCRIPTION  OP  THE  PLATES. 


PLATE  I. — ^Frontispibcb  to  the  Volume. 

This  is  a  plan  of  Cambridge,  as  it  appeared  in  the  year  1632,  and  is 
accoratelj  reduced  from  the  large  plate  prefixed  to  Fuller  s  folio  edition 
of  **'  The  History  of  the  Uniyersity  of  Cambridge." 

In  a  comer  of  the  original  plate  was  inserted  the  coat  of  arms  of 
Baptist  Noel,  Yisconnt  Camden,  with  a  Latin  inscription,  which  will 
be  found  concisely  described  at  the  commencement  of  the  second  plate, 
among  the  other  patrons'  coats  of  arms. 


PLATE  n.— Paob  1. 

COATS  OP  ARMS   OF   THE    PATRONS   OP   THE   FIRST   EDITION,   TO  WHOM 
THE  TARIOUS  SECTIONS  OF   THE  HISTORY  WERE  DEDICATED. 

The  figure  prefixed  to  every  name  denotes  the  number  of  the  shield 
belonging  to  each  individual,  who  was  one  of  the  original  patrons ;  and 
the  figure  which  follows  refers  to  the  page  of  the  volume  in  which  the 
dedication  to  that  person  occurs. 

PAGE 

1.  Honoratissimo  DominOy  Domino  Baptistce  Noel,  VicecomiH 

Camden,  Mcscenatt  suo  long^  dignissimo,     T,  F. 
(Dedication  of  the  plan  of  Cambridge.) 

2.  Reverendissimo  Antistitiy  Jacobo    Usserio,   Archiepiscopo 

Armackanoy  Domino  suo  colendissimo a.     29 

3.  Domino  Gulielmo  Paston  de  Paston  in  Com.  Norf.  Equiti 

auratOy  Patrono  meo  colendissimo GS 

4?  RouLANDo  Litton,  in  pago  Hertfordensi  Armigero     90 

5.  Radulpho  Freeman,  in  Comitatu  Hertfordensi  Armigero  ...  104 

6.  Edvardo  Benlossio,  Armigero^  Mcecenati  suo  benevolo 133 

7.  Edvardo  Palmer  rfe  WaUham  Armigero     167 

a  Francis  Ash,  of  London,  Esq 194 


Digiti 


zedbyL^OOgle 


DESCRIPTION  OF  THE  PLATES.  587 

PAGE 

9.  TnoMiE  Player,  Armigero,  Camerarii  Londinensis  Prima- 

genito    •. 224 

10.  Banister  Maynard,  Esq.,  son  and  heir  to  the  right  honourable 

William  Lord  Maynard 1 


PLATE  IIL— Page  22. 

PORTRAITS  OF  THE  FOUNDERS  OF  COLLEGES. 

In  the  page  placed  opposite  to  each  portrait,  the  reader  will  find 
Fuller's  account  of  the  Founder  of  the  particular  College  which  is  there 
described. 

PAGE 

1.  Hugh  de  Balsham,  Bishop  of  Elj,  Founder  of  Peter  House, 

or  St.  Peter's  College 22,  4ff 

2.  Ladj  Elizabeth  de  Clare,  Countess  of  Ulster,  Foundress  of 

Clare^Hall 5B 

3.  Lady  Mary  de  St.  Paul,  Countess  of  Pembroke,  Foundress  of 

Pembroke  Hall    64 

4.  Henry  Duke  of  Lancaster,  Founder  of  Corpus  Christi^  or 

Bene't  CoUege  ..,,1, 6^ 

5.  William  Bateman,  Bishop  of  Norwich,  Founder  of  Trinity 

HaU 74 

6.  John  Caius,   M.D.,  Founder   of   Caius  College,    formerly 

GonviUeHall 78,189 

7.  KingHenryVL,  Founder  of  King's  College 10^ 

8.  Queen    Margaret,    Consort    of   Henry  VI.,    Foundress    of 

Queen's  College '. IW 

9.  Robert  Woodlark,*  D.D.,  Founder  of  Catherine  Hall 125 

10.  John  Alcock,  Bishop  of  Ely,  Founder  of  Jesus  College    127 

11*  Lady  Margaret  Beaufort,  Countess  of  Richmond  and  Derby, 

Mother  of  King  Henry  VII.,  Foundress  of  two  Colleges, 
Christ's  and  St.  John's 134,139 

12.  Edward  Stafford,  Duke  of  Buckingham,  Founder  of  Magda- 

len College,  formerly  Buckingham  CoUege 1 46,  1 7 1 

13.  King  Henry  VIIL,  Founder  of  Trinity  CoUege,  embracing 

what  had  formerly  belonged  to  Michael  House,  King's 
HaU,  and  Fishwick's  Hostel.... 57,63,173 

14.  Sir  Walter  Mildmay,  Knight,  Founder  of  Emmanuel  CoUege.  205 

15.  Lady  Frances  Sidney,   Countess  of  Sussex,  Foundress  of 

Sidney-Sussex  College 214 

•  In  several  parts  of  Fuller's  "  History,"  this  learned  man  is  miscalled  «  Richard.'* 

Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


688  DESCRIPTION  OF  THE  PLATES. 

PLATE  IV.— Page  48. 

TIEWS  OF  COLLEGES   AND   HALLS. 

For  an  Account  of  each  Foundation,  see  the  pagA  here  respectirel j 
specified. 

PAGE 

1.  St.  Peter's  CoUege 22,  48 

2.  Clare  HaU  58 

3.  Pembroke  HaU  64 

4  Corpii*  CArw/i,  or  Bene't  College    69 

5.  Trinity  HaU    74 

6.  GonvUle  and  Caius  College 78,189 

7.  King^s  College      109 

8.  Queen's  CoUege 120 


PLATE  v.— Page  125. 

TIEWS  OF  COLLEGES  AND  HALLS. 

For  an  Account  of  each  Foundation,  see  the  pages  here  respective] j 
specified. 

PAGE 

L  Catherine  HaU   125 

2.  Jesus  CoUege 127 

3.  Christ's  CoUege  134 

4.  St.  John's  CoUege  139 

5.  Magdalen  CoUege  ....'. 171 

6.  Trinity  College 173 

7.  Emmanuel  College  and  Chapel 205 

8.  Sidney-Sussex  CoUege    214 


THE    END. 


LONDON   : PRINTED    BY    JAMES    NICHOLS,    46,    HOXTON-SQUAIIE, 

Digitized  by  ^OOQ l€ 


r 


Digitized  by 


Google 


is 


r^.:. 


RETURN     GRCULATION  DEPARTMENT 
TO>Hi#>     202  Main  Library 

LOAN  PERIOD  1 
HOME  USE 

2                       ; 

3 

4 

5                          < 

b 

AU  BOOKS  MAY  M  KCAUEO  AFTER  7  DAYS 

1  month  loons  moy  be  renewed  by  colling  642-3405 

6month  loons  moy  be  recharged  by  bringing  books  to  Circolofion  Desk 

Renewols  ond  rechorges  may  be  mode  4  doys  prior  to  due  dote 

DUE  AS  STAMPED  BELOW 

lETD     JUL  2  5 

1962 

JUN08198 

1 

Aurooisajiio9^ 

^ 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA,  BERKELEY 
FORM  NO.  DD6,  60m,  12/80       BERKELEY,  CA  94720 


(Bi 


Digitized  by 


igle 


YC  0488n 

UX.  BERKELEY  UBMRIES 

■I 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  LIBRARY 


t        4 


"''  '^ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


