DOCUMENT_ID: shuckburgh1904
TITLE (as printed): Emmanuel College (University of Cambridge College Histories series)
AUTHOR: E. S. Shuckburgh, Litt.D., Librarian and late Fellow of Emmanuel
DATE: 1904
LANGUAGE: en (contains embedded Latin and 16th/17th-century English quotations)
SOURCE URL: https://archive.org/details/emmanuelcollege00shucrich
EDITION: London: F. E. Robinson & Co., 1904. Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2007
  (funded by Microsoft Corporation) from a University of California / Google-scanned copy.
TRANSCRIPTION METHOD: Internet Archive OCR (djvu text layer), fetched verbatim via
  https://archive.org/download/emmanuelcollege00shucrich/emmanuelcollege00shucrich_djvu.txt,
  uncorrected.
TOTAL LINES: 12360
WORD COUNT: approx. 73,843
NOTE: A scholarly institutional history (SECONDARY) written by a Fellow and Librarian of the
  College using the College's own order books, admission registers, Bursar's accounts, and
  earlier histories (Fuller 1655, Dyer 1814, Cooper 1858-66, Willis and Clark). Where
  Shuckburgh explicitly quotes a document he had open before him -- the founder's own
  statutes, the College order book, Bursar's accounts, letters -- that quoted text is treated
  as PRIMARY (quoted-at-second-hand) for dossier purposes, per the same convention used in
  book/research/geneva-academy for Borgeaud 1900. Shuckburgh's own narrative sentences are
  SECONDARY.
OCR QUALITY: Moderate to good; running heads and page numbers are interleaved through the
  body text as printed (e.g. "THE FOUNDER AND HIS PURPOSE 23"), which is used as the page
  marker in quote records below. Spot-checked against several passages for internal
  consistency; no page-image comparison was performed (djvu images were not separately
  downloaded this session).
---BEGIN TEXT---
w 


COLLEGE 

HISTORIES 

CAMBRIDGE 


EMMANUEL   COLLEGE 


We  know  what  Master  laid  thy  keel, 

What  Workman  wrought  thy  ribs  of  steel, 

Who  made  each  mast,  and  sail,  and  rope, 

What  anvils  rang,  what  hammers  beat. 

In  what  a  forge  and  what  a  heat 

Were  shaped  the  anchors  of  thy  hope. 

Fear  not  each  sudden  sound  and  shock, 

'Tis  of  the  wave,  and  not  the  rock ; 

'Tis  but  the  flapping  of  the  sail, 

And  not  a  rent  made  by  the  gale. 

In  spite  of  rock  and  tempest's  roar, 

In  spite  of  false  lights  on  the  shore, 

Sail  on,  nor  fear  to  breast  the  sea  ! 

Our  hearts,  our  hopes,  are  all  with  thee  ; 

Our  hearts,  our  hopes,  our  prayers,  our  tears, 

Our  faith  triumphant  o'er  our  fears, 

Are  all  with  thee — are  all  with  thee. 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2007  with  funding  from 

IVIicrosoft  Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/emmanuelcollegeOOshucrich 


1'     .        ^ 


^«4%§ 


\^. 


^• 


".^^^ 


Wlnit^tt^itv  of  (ttamlirtlra^ 

COLLEGE    HISTORIES 


EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 


BY 


E.   S.    SHUCKBURGH,  Litt.D 

LIBRARIAN   AND   LATE   FELLOW   OF   EMMANUEL 


LONDON 

F.   E.   ROBINSON   &   CO. 

20  GREAT  RUSSELL  STREET,  BLOOMSBURY 

1904 


LFI8S 
.^6 


TO 

WILLIAM   CHAWNER 

Master  of  Emmanuel  College 

FROM 
A  FRIEND  OF  MANY  YEARS 


336516 


PREFACE 

The  name  of  Emmanuel  College  is  in  itself  an  indication 
of  the  origin  and  purpose  of  the  foundation.  In  a 
discussion  as  to  the  use  of  the  word  in  Notes  and 
Queries  (8th  Series,  vii.  268,  351,  396),  it  is  shown 
that  it  had  long  been  the  custom  in  the  seventeenth 
century,  and  perhaps  earlier,  especially  among  men  of 
a  Puritan  cast,  to  use  the  word  as  the  heading  of 
letters  or  books  and  records.  One  correspondent  quotes 
2  Henry  VI.  (IV.  ii),  when  the  clerk  of  Chatham  is 
brought  before  Jack  Cade  : 

Cade.  Come  hither,  sirrah,  I  must  examine  thee  :  What 
is  thy  name  ? 

Clerk.  Emmanuel. 

Dick.  They  use  to  write  it  on  the  top  of  letters :  'twill 
go  hard  with  you. 

The  use  of  the  word  as  a  kind  of  badge  is  in 
accordance  with  the  Scripture  phraseology  so  common 
among  the  Puritans  at  all  times,  and  has  survived  in 
the  name  of  many  Nonconformist  chapels  and  some 
churches  to  this  day.  At  the  time  of  the  foundation 
of  the  College  it  had  not  become  vulgarized,  and  was 

vii 


viii  PREFACE 

regarded  with  serious  reverence  as  indicating  a  profound 
sense  of  the  Divine  presence.  The  '  Memorial  for  a 
Son'  drawn  up  by  Sir  Walter  Mildmay,  and  lately 
published  by  the  Rev.  Arundell  St.  John  Mildmay,"'^ 
begins  and  ends  with  the  exhortation  to  '  fear  God  and 
love  Him,'  to  'read  the  Scriptures  daily  and  hear 
sermons  diligently.'  The  whole  of  these  admonitions, 
with  their  worldly  prudence  and  religious  earnestness, 
give  the  clue  to  the  purpose  of  Sir  Walter  in  his 
foundation,  as  I  have  endeavoured  to  show  in  this  book. 
Details  of  College  management,  of  changing  methods 
and  ideals,  of  pecuniary  difficulties  or  increasing  wealth, 
may  have  their  charm ;  but  the  real  interest  of  the 
history  of  Emmanuel  is  that  it  coincides  with,  and 
reflects,  a  great  national  movement.  The  College  rose 
with  the  rising  tide  of  Puritanism,  declined  with  its 
decline;  contributed  even  more  than  its  just  proportion 
to  the  seed-plot  of  the  New  England  in  the  West ; 
shared  to  the  full  in  the  dawn  of  a  more  liberal 
theology ;  and  through  the  days  of  decadence  and 
deadness,  though  it  did  not  escape  their  numbing 
influence,  never  wholly  lost  the  love  of  learning  or  the 
sense  of  duty  to  its  trust.  Throughout  the  eighteenth 
century,  with  decreasing  numbers,  and  for  the  greater 
part  of  the  time  with  straitened  means,  the  College 
never  ceased  to  produce  men  who  gained  distinction  in 
letters'  or  science  or  politics.  In  these  later  days  it  has 
always  kept  up  with,  and  sometimes  led,  the  movements 
in  favour  of  larger  and  more  liberal  views  of  education, 
of  raising  the  standard  and  multiplying  the  subjects  of 
learning  and  research. 

*  College  Magazine,  vol.  v.,  p.  5. 


PREFACE  ix 

Still,  it  is  the  earlier  chapters  in  its  history  that 
must  always  have  the  more  vivid  interest,  because  it 
was  then  that  it  most  obviously  reflects  the  spirit  of  the 
time.  For  the  first  fifty  years  of  its  existence  it  was 
marked  by  extreme  Puritanism,  though  perhaps  with  a 
diminishing  vehemence ;  but  the  beginning  of  the  Civil 
War  found  it  with  a  strongly  Royalist  Master  (Holds- 
worth),  who  committed  the  College  by  paying  ^100 
in  its  name  at  the  King's  demand.  And  when  the 
Restoration  came  it  was  clear  that  the  extraordinary 
change  which  had  come  over  the  nation  at  large  had 
had  its  full  effect  in  the  College.  With  hardly  any  excep- 
tion the  Society  were  ready  to  acquiesce  in  the  change 
and  all  it  involved.  The  Master  (Dillingham)  refused, 
indeed,  to  conform  in  1662,  but  his  objection  was 
neither  to  Royalty  nor  to  Church  authority,  properly 
speaking,  and  his  example  found  few  followers.  The 
movement  had  spent  itself  in  the  College,  as  it  had 
in  the  country.  It  may,  I  fear,  be  thought  that  the 
interest  of  this  subject  has  led  to  a  disproportionate 
space  being  assigned  in  this  book  to  the  earlier  period, 
to  the  neglect  of  later  stages  in  the  development  of  the 
College.  I  can  only  plead  that  as  we  get  nearer  our 
own  time  what  has  to  be  said  seems  more  fitted  for  a 
hand-book  than  a  history,  and  that  what  is  needed  to 
supplement  this  book  is  not  so  much  a  larger  history  of 
changes  of  statutes  and  expansions  of  estates,  but  a 
biographical  catalogue  of  men  educated  within  the 
College  walls.  They,  after  all,  represent  the  success  or 
failure  of  the  foundation,  the  merits  of  which  are  best 
ascertained  by  its  fruits.  But  this  is  an  undertaking 
for  which  I  have  neither  the  capability  nor  the  time. 


X  PREFACE 

I  hope  that  some  younger  man  may  be  found  to  do  for 
Emmanuel  what  has  been  done  for  Caius,  and  is  being 
done  for  King's  and  Christ's. 

Previous  accounts  of  the  College  of  any  considerable 
length  have  been — 

1.  By  Thomas  Fuller,  in  his  History  of  the  University 
of  Cambridge  (1655).  His  quaint  humour  must  always 
give  delight,  and  he  has  the  advantage  of  writing  at 
a  very  interesting  point  of  the  College  history.  But 
his  desire  to  be  epigrammatic  sometimes  makes  him 
oblivious  of  duller  but  necessary  details. 

2.  By  George  Dyer,  in  History  of  the  University  and 
Colleges  of  Cambridge  (1814).  Dyer  entered  Emmanuel 
in  1774  from  Christ's  Hospital,  the  last  year  of  Far- 
mer's tutorship,  to  whom  his  literary  abilities  much 
commended  him.  After  his  degree  in  1778  he  held  a 
number  of  minor  educational  posts,  and  eventually 
settled  in  Clifford's  Inn,  where  he  died  in  1841.  He 
was  a  friend  (and  butt)  of  Charles  Lamb.  His  numerous 
works  in  prose  and  verse  are  of  no  great  value,  but  his 
account  of  Emmanuel  in  the  book  above  mentioned  is 
interesting  from  his  personal  enthusiasm,  and  for  the 
account  of  many  of  its  worthies,  some  of  whom  he 
personally  knew. 

3.  By  C.  H.  Cooper,  in  the  third  volume  of  his 
Memorials  of  Cambridge  (1 858-1 866) .  Every  Cambridge 
man  owes  a  debt  of  gratitude  to  the  extraordinary  in- 
dustry and  accuracy  of  this  great  antiquary.  His  A  thenar 
Cantabrigienses  (1853)  has  also  been  of  great  help  in  the 
early  part  of  the  work,  as  also  his  Annals  of  Cambridge 
(1842). 

4.  By  Willis  and  Clark,  in  the  Architectural  History 


PREFACE  xi 

of  the  University  of  Cambridge  (1886),  which  contains 
the  best  account  of  the  College  buildings. 

5.  By  Atkinson  and  Clark,  in  Cambridge  Described 
and  Illustrated  (1897). 

6.  The  Emmanuel  College  Magazine  was  started  in 
May,  1889,  under  the  editorship  of  Dr.  Adam,  now  Senior 
Tutor,  and  continued  under  that  of  Mr.  J.  B.  Peace, 
the  Bursar.  It  appears  once  a  term,  and  contributions 
have  been  made  to  it  by  many  members  of  the  College, 
past  and  present,  on  points  of  interest  in  the  history 
of  the  College,  as,  for  instance,  by  Dr.  J.  J.  Raven, 
Vicar  of  Fressingfield  (Bancroft's  old  home),  who  is  the 
author  of  a  History  of  Siiffblk,  and  an  enthusiast  as  to 
all  that  concerns  the  College  and  the  Archbishop.  By 
no  one  have  more  numerous  and  valuable  contributions 
been  made  than  by  the  editor,  Mr.  Peace,  himself.  The 
result  is  an  accumulation  of  facts  forming  a  fairly 
complete  account  of  the  College,  which,  if  collected, 
would  make  a  much  better  book  than  mine.  I  have 
been  largely  indebted  to  this  storehouse  of  information. 
The  account  of  Hubbard's  tutorship  (pp.  139-151),  and 
of  the  early  endowments  of  the  College  in  the  Appendix, 
are,  the  former  mainly,  and  the  latter  wholly,  contribu- 
tions by  Mr.  Peace  to  this  Magazine.  For  leave  to  use 
them,  and  for  much  other  help  in  correcting  proofs 
and  pointing  out  sources  of  information  in  the  College 
Treasury,  I  owe  him  incalculable  gratitude.  The  Index 
I  owe  to  my  wife. 

E.  S.  SHUCKBURGH. 


CONTENTS 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

I.    THE   SITE   OF   THE   COLLEGE  AND    THE   DEVELOP- 
MENT  OF    ITS    BUILDINGS  -  -  -  I 
II.    THE  FOUNDER  AND  THE  OBJECT  OF  HIS  FOUNDA- 
TION   -                 -                 -                 -                 -                 -         17 

III.  THE     MASTERSHIP     OF     LAURENCE     CHADERTON 

(1584-1622)     -  -  -  -  -         27 

IV.  THE     MASTERSHIPS     OF     JOHN     PRESTON     (1622- 

1628)  AND    WILLIAM   SANDCROFT   (1628-1637)         58 
V.    PERIOD    OF    THE    CIVIL    WAR  :     MASTERSHIPS    OF 
RICHARD  HOLDSWORTH  (1637-1644),  ANTHONY 
TUCKNEY  (1644- 1 65 3),  AND  WILLIAM  DILLING- 
HAM   (1653-1662)         -  -  -  -         87 
VI.    THE   RESTORATION    CHANGES  :     MASTERSHIPS   OF 
WILLIAM  SANCROFT  (1662-1665),  JOHN  BRETON 
(1665-1675),    THOMAS    HOLBECH    (1675-1680), 
AND   JOHN    BALDERSTON    (1680-1719)                   -       107 
VII.    MASTERSHIPS    OF    WILLIAM    SAVAGE    (1719-1736) 

AND  WILLIAM   RICHARDSON   ( 1 736- 1 7 75)  -      127 

VIII.    MASTERSHIP   OF   RICHARD   FARMER    (1775-I797)       152 

xiii 


xiv  CONTENTS 

CHAPTER  PAGE 

IX.  MASTERSHIPS  OF  R.  T.  CORY  ( 1 797-1 835), 
G.  ARCHDALL-GRATWICKE  (1835-1871),  S.  G. 
PHEAR    (187 1- 1 895),  AND  WILLIAM    CHAWNER, 

THE   PRESENT  MASTER  -  -  -  1 69 

X.    THE   LIBRARY       -  -  -  -  -  1 87 

APPENDICES 

I.    EARLIEST   ENDOWMENTS   OF   THE   COLLEGE             -  202 
II.    THE   COLLEGE   BENEFACTORS         -                 -                 -  214 
in.    THE   PICTURES     -----  223 
IV.    THE   COLLEGE   PATRONAGE             -                 -                 -  227 
V.    THE   CHAPEL         -                 -                 -                 -                 "  231 
VI.    EMMANUEL    MEN    WHO     HAVE     TAKEN    A     FIRST 
CLASS    IN   HONOURS    SINCE    THE    FIRST   ESTAB- 
LISHMENT    OF     A     TRIPOS,     OR     GAINED    UNI- 
VERSITY  SCHOLARSHIPS  OR   PRIZES        -                 -  238 
VII.    ATHLETICS                -                 -                 .                 .                 -  248 

INDEX       ------  251 


LIST  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 

PLATE 

VIEW  BY  LOGGAN  {c.  1 688)        -            -  FronUspiece 

I.    THE   PICTURE   GALLERY  -                 -                 -  facttlg  p.   12 
n.    THE   OLD   COURT,    LOOKING    WEST    UPON 

THE   SOUTH   GARDEN  -                 -                 -  ,,74 

III.  CHAPEL   AND   CLOISTER   ON  EAST  OF  THE 

GREAT  COURT                   -                 -                 -  „      Il6 

IV.  THE   HALL              -                 -                 -  „     162 
V.    THE   NEW   COURT                -                 -                 -  „     ^74 

VI.    THE    OLD    COURT,    LOOKING    EAST    UPON 

THE   PADDOCK                 -                 -                 -  „     182 

Vn.    THE    LIBRARY      -                 -                 -                 -  „     188 


XV 


CHAPTER  I 

THE  SITE  OF  THE  COLLEGE  AND  THE  DEVELOP- 
MENT  OF  ITS  BUILDINGS 

The  continuity  of  English  life  is,  perhaps,  by  nothing 
more  vividly  illustrated  than  by  the  antiquity  of  the 
occupation  of  certain  portions  of  the  soil  for  definite 
public  objects,  especially  in  connexion  with  religion  or 
education. 

Emmanuel  College,  Cambridge,  has  been  founded 
about  320  years,  but  it  stands  on  ground  held  for  eccle- 
siastical and  quasi-educational  purposes  (with  a  brief 
interval)  for  more  than  650  years.  The  Dominicans  or 
Black  (Preaching)  Friars  came  into  England  first  in 
1221,  and  some  time  between  that  date  and  1240  they 
had  possession  of  a  house  and  church  standing  about 
200  yards  south  of  Barnwell  Gate,  at  the  point 
where  the  King's  Ditch  turned  to  the  north  in  the 
direction  of  the  river,  down  what  is  now  Hobson's 
Street.  The  west  end  of  the  church  looked  upon  the 
highroad,  which  came  to  be  called  Preachers'*  Street, 
after  the  friars,  and  is  now  St.  Andrew*'s  Street,  while 
on  the  south  side  of  it  ran  a  road  passing  through  the 
present  site  of  the  principal  court  of  the  College  in 
the  direction  of  Newmarket.     In  1240,  by  a  writ  of 

1 


2  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

Henry  IIL,  an  inquisition  was  held,  in  consequence  of 
which  the  friars  were  allowed  to  acquire  from  the  town 
this  road  and  some  land  beyond  it,  giving  up  in  return 
some  land  on  the  north  side  of  the  church,  which  is 
now  Emmanuel  Street.*  The  friars  thus  possessed 
grounds  of  about  eight  acres,  to  which  two  were  subse- 
quently added.  The  Dominican  church  stood  on  the 
site  of  the  present  hall  and  combination-room,  and  the 
buildings  for  the  accommodation  of  the  friars  were 
apparently  between  the  church  and  Emmanuel  Street, 
the  present  library  (at  right  angles  to  the  church) 
occupying  the  site  of  some  considerable  building, 
perhaps  the  refectory. 

The  friars  appear  to  have  taken  part  in  the  Uni- 
versity life  of  the  time,  and  to  have  proceeded  to 
degrees  in  divinity.  The  names  of  a  good  many 
members  of  the  house  are  preserved  who  played  a  more 
or  less  conspicuous  part  in  the  various  controversies 
which  agitated  the  ecclesiastical  world  up  to  the  time 
of  the  Dissolution.  Their  chief  benefactor  was  Alice, 
widow  of  Robert  de  Vere,  fifth  Earl  of  Oxford  (ob.  1295), 
whom,  indeed,  they  are  said  to  have  regarded  as  their 
foundress.  They  were  not  one  of  the  wealthy  founda- 
tions, though  they  enjoyed  a  pension  from  the  Crown, 
for  their  house  was  dissolved  under  the  Act  of  1536, 
which  only  affected  those  corporations  whose  income 
was  under  c£200.  The  last  Prior,  Gregory  Dodds,  B.D., 
escaped  any  ill  consequences  by  joining  with  fourteen 
of  his  friars  in  surrendering  the  house  to  the  King  on 

♦  It  may  be  remarked  that  by  a  fresh  agreement  with  the  town 
the  College  will  probably  reabsorb  this  ground,  the  road  being 
removed  some  50  yards  to  the  north. 


THE  SITE  OF  THE  COLLEGE  3 

April  16,  1538.  He  was  rewarded  with  the  living  of 
Smarden  in  Kent,  and  though  during  the  dangerous 
period  following  the  Act  of  the  Six  Articles  he  seems 
to  have  been  in  some  peril,  he  survived  it  and  the  two 
next  reigns,  dying  Dean  of  Exeter  in  1570.  Another 
of  the  surrendering  friars,  John  Scory,  had  still  more 
liberal  compensation,  for  he  was  successively  Preacher 
at  Canterbury,  Bishop  of  Rochester  and  of  Chichester ; 
and,  though  he  was  deprived  of  Chichester  by  Mary  in 
1553,  he  was  sent  to  Hereford  by  Elizabeth  in  1559, 
and  died  Bishop  of  that  see  in  1585.  He  seems  to  have 
been  very  vehement  on  the  side  of  his  new  opinions,  and 
during  the  Catholic  reaction  he  saved  his  own  life  by  a 
flight  to  the  Continent,  while  he  signed  a  letter  urging 
those  in  prison  for  their  faith  to  stay  and  suffer  martyr- 
dom. He  must  have  been  almost  the  only  one  of  the 
friars  who  lived  to  see  or  hear  of  the  site  of  his  old 
monastery  being  occupied  by  the  Protestant  foundation 
of  Emmanuel. 

After  the  surrender  of  1538,  the  site  with  the  build- 
ings on  it — no  doubt  the  usual  stripping  of  lead  from 
the  church  and  other  spoliation  having  meanwhile  taken 
place — passed  into  private  ownership,  in  spite  of  a 
petition  from  the  Vice- Chancellor  that,  as  well  as  other 
religious  houses,  it  should  be  converted  into  a  College. 
In  1544  the  ground  and  buildings  were  granted  to 
Edward  Elrington  and  Humphry  Metcalfe,  with  re- 
mainder to  the  heirs  of  Elrington  (April  16).  It  was, 
however,  sold  on  March  2  in  the  next  year  to  William 
Sherwood,  and  in  1581  to  Robert  Taylor  (April  1). 

To  what  uses  the  grounds  or  buildings  had  been  put 
between  1544  and  1583  we  have  no  information.    But  on 

1—2 


y 


4  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

June  12  in  the  latter  year  they  were  conveyed  by  Taylor 
to  Laurence  Chaderton  (already  selected  as  the  Master 
of  the  new  College)  and  his  brother-in-law,  Richard 
Culverwell,  citizen  of  London,  and  by  them  conveyed 
1  on  November  23  of  the  same  year  for  £550  to  Sir 
Walter  Mildmay,  the  founder  of  Emmanuel  College.* 
The  charter  of  Queen  Elizabeth  empowering  Sir  Walter 
to  found  a  College  is  dated  January  11,  1583-84;  his 
deed  of  foundation,  still  preserved,  is  dated  May  25, 
1584 ;  and  on  the  29th  Francis  Chamberlain,  of  Great 
Melton  in  Norfolk,  conveyed  to  the  Master,  Fellows,  and 
Scholars  the  rectory  and  tithes  of  Little  Melton  and 
land  in  Little  and  Great  Melton,  thus  attesting  their 
existence  as  a  corporate  body.  It  consisted  of  a  Master, 
Laurence  Chaderton,  B.D.,  late  Fellow  of  Christ's 
College ;  three  Fellows,  Charles  Chad  wick,  of  Christ's 
College,  William  Jones  and  Laurence  Pickering,  both 
of  Clare  Hall ;  and  four  scholars,  John  Duke,  Richard 
RolfFe,  John  Starkye,  and  Robert  Houghton.  Four 
other  Fellows  were  admitted  in  the  course  of  the  year.t 
Though  the  statutes  given  by  the  founder  are  dated 
October  1,  1585,  entrances  of  Fellow-commoners,  pen- 

*  •  All  that  scite,  circuit,  ambulance  and  procinct  of  the  late 
Priory  of  Fryers  commonly  called  the  blackfryers  within  the  Towne 
of  Cambrige  .  .  .  and  all  messuages,  houses,  buildynges,  barnes, 
stables,  dovehouses,  orchards,  gardens,  pondes,  stewes,  waters, 
lande  and  soyle  within  the  said  scite.  .  .  .  And  all  walles  of  stone, 
brick,  or  other  thinge  compassinge  and  enclosing  the  said  scite.' 

t  John  Cock  from  Christ's,  John  Richardson  from  Clare  Hall 
(afterwards  Master  of  Peterhouse),  Nathaniel  Gilbie  from  Christ's, 
William  Branthwaite  from  Clare  (afterwards  Master  of  Caius). 
William  Bright  from  Christ's,  John  Grey  from  Queens',  were 
admitted  in  1588,  or  at  any  rate  only  began  to  receive  payments  in 
that  year. 


DEVELOPMENT  OF  THE  BUILDINGS       5 

sioners,  and  sizars  are  recorded  from  November  1 , 1 584, 
as  many  as  eighty  names  being  entered  in  the  College 
register  between  that  date  and  July  1,  1585.*  It 
therefore  appears  that  there  must  have  been  some 
structure  early  in  this  year  capable  of  accommodating 
a  considerable  number  of  men.  The  history  of  the 
development  of  these  buildings  seems  to  begin  with  a 
rapid  adaptation  of  some  of  those  already  existing. 
The  church  was  sufficiently  preserved — at  any  rate,  as 
far  as  the  walls  and  roof  were  concerned — to  be  at  once 
converted  into  a  dining-hall ;  for  in  1586  we  learn  from 
the  Bursar's  accounts  that  the  parlour  at  the  east  end 
of  it,  with  chambers  above,  was  being  fitted  up,  the 
hall  being  referred  to  as  already  in  use.  The  building 
already  noticed  as  having  possibly  been  the  refectory 
of  the  friary  (now  the  library)  was,  it  seems,  in  the 
same  space  of  time  repaired  and  fitted  up  as  a  chapel 
with  chambers  above.  This  formed  the  east  side  of  the 
smaller  court,  the  west  being  a  range  of  buildings  stand- 
ing somewhat  like  the  western  side  of  the  present  New 
Court,  and  with  the  kitchens  and  buttery  facing  on 
Preachers'   Street,   also   with   chambers    above.      The 

*  The  first  recorded  list  of  stipends  is  dated  1585,  and  probably 
refers  to  the  Lady  Day  audit : 

i   s.    d. 

The  Master  for  half  a  year  ...  15    o    o  /   s.    d. 

Chadwick,  Fellow  and  Lecturer  404  and  168 

Jones,  Fellow  and  Catechist       ...  4    o    4  and  168 

Pickering      404 

Cock ...         ...         ...         ...         ...  400 

Richardson 404 

Gilbie  ...         ...         ...         ...  400 

Branthwaite  404 

Eighteen  scholars,  each i  13    4 


6  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

entrance  was  in  the  middle  of  a  wall  facing  Emmanuel 
Street,*  and  from  it  a  path  passed  between  the  parlour 
and  the  entrance  to  the  chapel  and  Master's  Lodge  into 
the  greater  court  beyond.  The  west  side  of  this  greater 
court  was  the  first  built.  It  was  a  range  facinor 
Preachers'  Street,  standing  much  farther  back  than  the 
present  frontage,  at  both  ends  of  which  were  projecting 
wings.  That  on  the  north  seems  to  have  consisted  of 
chambers,  but  that  on  the  south  was  the  first  library. 
This  was  at  one  time  doubtful.f  But  an  entry  in  the 
Bursar's  accounts  for  the  year  1657  speaks  of  iron  SS 
for  the  library,  and  Loggan's  plan  shows  them  on  the 
south  wing  of  the  range  at  right  angles  to  the  hall. 

The  next  step  taken,  almost  at  once,  was  the  com- 
mencement of  the  '  Founder's  Range '  on  the  south  side 
of  the  greater  court,  opposite  the  dining-hall,  on  the 
same  site  on  which  the  restored  buildings  still  stand. 
This  was,  at  any  rate,  approaching  completion  by  the 
end  of  1587,  for  in  December  of  that  year  the  founder 
sends  a  supplementary  statute,  in  which  he  desires  that 
'  a  single  chamber  of  those  recently  erected — namely, 
that  which  is  at  the  end  of  the  range  towards  the  east, 
between  the  lowest  chamber  and  the  upper  chamber 
next  the  roof — may  be  appropriated  to  such  of  our 
descendants  as  may  be  studying  in  the  College.'  The 
set  of  rooms  still  spoken  of  as  '  Founder's  Chamber,'  and 

*  An  ornamental  doorway  is  shown  on  Loggan's  plan,  on  which 
were  the  words :  '  Sacrae  Theologiae  Studiosis  Gualterus  Mildmaius 
Ano  Domini  1584.'  The  architect  of  these  earliest  buildings  was 
Ralf  Symons,  whose  portrait  is  in  the  gallery,  and  who  had  done 
much  work  in  the  construction  of  Trinity. 

t  Willis  and  Clark  (vol.  ii.,  p.  702)  thought  that  it  was  probably 
in  the  range  north  of  the  hall,  '  which  extended  from  the  north  end 
of  the  kitchen-range  to  the  street.' 


DEVELOPMENT  OF  THE  BUILDINGS       7 

recently  occupied  as  such,  is  in  the  same  situation, 
though  the  building  has  been  renewed.  Entries  in  the 
Bursar's  accounts  show  that  building  operations  were 
going  on  through  1588,  stone  being  carted  from  Cam- 
bridge Castle,  and  timber  being  sent  by  various  bene- 
factors. In  the  same  year  the  hall  was  whitewashed, 
the  larger  court  paved,  the  Master's  Lodge  in  course  of 
building,  the  great  gate  completed,  and  the  parlour 
furnished.  The  College  was  now  sufficiently  advanced 
for  a  '  dedication  '  festival,  which  was  accordingly  cele- 
brated in  the  presence  of  the  founder  in  1588.  The 
Bursar's  accounts  show  that  a  great  banquet  was  given. 
Two  does  are  brought  by  the  keepers  (probably  Sir 
Walter's),  a  'crag  of  sturgeon'  is  purchased,  the 
chambers  are  all  '  dressed,'  and  the  street  '  cleansed.' 

The  buildings  of  the  College  remained  in  the  state 
here  indicated,  with  some  unimportant  addition  to  the 
kitchen  range,  until  1632.  Meanwhile,  the  arrange- 
ment of  the  gardens  and  paddock,  with  some  modifica- 
tions afterwards  to  be  noted,  was  not  widely  different 
from  what  it  is  now.  But  there  was  one  building  which 
has  totally  disappeared.  That  was  a  tennis-court.  It 
seems  to  have  existed  from  the  earliest  times  of  the 
College,  perhaps  even  before  the  College  itself  was 
founded.  It  stood  along  the  wall  of  the  Fellows' 
Garden,  parallel  with  the  pond.  It  was  originally 
roofed,  but  the  roof  was  removed  in  1632.  It  con- 
tinued, however,  to  be  much  used.  A  College  order 
of  October  29,  1651,  runs : 

'For  the  better  regulating  of  the  Tenniz-court  it  is 
ordered  by  the  Master  and  Fellows  tmanimi  consensu  that 
the  key  of  it  shalbe  in  the  keeping  of  the  Deane,  who  is 


8  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

to  take  care  that  the  door  be  kept  lockt,  and  never 
suffered  to  play  dureing  the  howers  hereafter  mentioned, 
viz*^  from  one  of  the  clock  till  three  in  the  afternoone  and 
from  eight  of  the  clock  at  night  till  tenn  the  next  morn- 
ing ;  unless  any  of  the  fellows  shall  desire  to  play  there  in 
any  of  these  howers,  who  may  take  any  fellow  commoner 
with  them ;  yet  soe  as  they  cleare  the  Court,  shutt  the 
doore,  and  returne  the  key  to  the  Deane  at  their  comeing 
away.' 

The  tennis-court  seems  to  have  fallen  into  disuse 
early  in  the  eighteenth  century,*  when  the  boundary 
of  the  Fellows'  Garden  was  extended  so  as  to  include  it, 
its  south  wall  forming  part  of  the  new  garden  wall. 
This  south  wall  was  partly  demolished  by  a  fall  of  two 
lofty  elms  in  a  violent  storm  of  March  24, 1895.  When 
the  damaged  portion  of  this  wall  was  being  removed,  a 
small  teapot  was  found  carefully  bricked  up,  containing 
a  halfpenny  of  1773  and  the  following  paper  : 

'  This  wall  was  New  Cacet  Next  the  Master's  Close  in 

Feburey  1810. 

By  Wm.  Overland,  Bricklare. 

Jno.  Farran,  Labourer. 

s.    d. 
Bricklar  P^  Day  2     8 

Labourer  do.  do.        ...         1     9 

A  Quarten  Loaf         ...         ...         ...     1     2j 

A  Quart  of  Ale  0     5 

Meat  P""  Pound  0     8 

Wm.  Overland, 

Late  Serjant  in  46  Regiment.' 

*  A  memorandum  in  the  treasury  records  :  •  8  March  1734-5  I 
began  to  pull  down  the  fellows'  orchard  wall  and  the  tenis  cort 
wall.' 


DEVELOPMENT  OF  THE  BUILDINGS       9 

To  return  to  the  buildings.  The  first  great  change 
was  started  in  1632  by  the  erection  of  the  'Brick 
Building,'  or,  as  we  sometimes  now  call  it,  the  '  Old 
Court,'  extending  southward  from  the  eastern  end  of 
the  'Founder's  Range'  to  what  was  then  called  Pits 
Garden,  which  seems  to  be  the  piece  of  land  acquired 
by  the  College  only  in  1899.  The  contract  for  this 
building  is  dated  February  9,  1632-33,  between  John 
Westley,  bricklayer,  and  the  Master,  Dr.  William  Sand- 
croft,  and  the  Fellows.  The  amount  of  the  bricklayer's 
contract  was  £665,  that  of  the  carpenter  (Henry  Man) 
c£^285.  Both  were  to  have  the  use  of  materials  from 
the  tennis-court — the  bricklayer  the  '  tyles  and  lathes,' 
and  the  carpenter  '  the  timber  and  cover.'  The  brick- 
layer was  also  to  have  the  materials  of  the  old  wall, 
which  ran  along  the  site  of  the  new  building.  Bishop 
Bennet,  in  1788,  says  that  £500  had  been  spent  on  it 
since,  and  that  even  so  it  was  in  a  '  tottering  state,  and 
only  kept  together  by  the  strength  of  the  chimneys.' 
He  attributes  this  to  the  original  '  execution '  having 
been  '  shamefully  negligent.'  Certainly,  some  external 
features,  such  as  the  dormers  of  the  garret  windows, 
have  had  to  be  removed,  perhaps  because  they  were 
badly  constructed;  but  either  the  Bishop  took  an 
unnecessarily  pessimistic  view,  or  the  subsequent  repairs 
were  very  effective,  for  the  building  is  still  substantially 
sound  as  well  as  picturesque.  At  any  rate,  bricklayer 
and  carpenter  were  punctual,  the  last  payment  being 
made  on  April  22,  1634,  nor  can  <^20  for  extras  to  the 
bricklayer  be  thought  excessive. 

The  next  great  change  in  building  and  arrangement 
of  the  College  was  started  soon  after  the  restoration  of 


10  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

1660  by  Dr.  Sancroft,  the  future  nonjuring  Archbishop 
of  Canterbury,  who  was  Master  from  August,  1662,  to 
May,  1665.  His  immediate  motives  were  two.  A  con- 
siderable legacy  of  books  from  Dr.  Holdsworth  (which, 
however,  did  not  reach  the  College)  made  it  necessary 
to  have  a  larger  library,  and  the  chapel  was  in  many 
ways  distasteful  to  the  Church  party,  now  in  the  ascen- 
dant, particularly  in  the  fact  that  it  stood  north  and 
south,  instead  of  east  and  west.  He  therefore  designed 
to  build  a  new  chapel  and  library,  though  the  old  chapel 
was  afterwards  used  for  the  latter.  This  plan  had  been 
constantly  in  his  thoughts  during  his  mastership.  In  a 
letter  to  his  old  tutor,  Ezechiel  Wright,  dated  from  the 
College  on  January  17,  1663,  he  says  (speaking  of  his 
hope  to  secure  Holdsworth's  library) : 

'  For  the  performance  whereof,  and  also  for  the  removing 
that  great  mark  of  singularity,  which  all  the  world  so  talks 
of,  in  the  unusual  prospect  and  dress  of  the  Chapel  (different 
from  that  of  other  Colleges),  I  have  it  in  design  to  make 
both  a  new  Library  and  Chapel  too.'* 

Though  his  rapid  promotions — first  to  the  deanery 
of  York  and  then  to  that  of  St.  Paul's — prevented  him 
from  carrying  out  this  work  as  Master  (he  resigned  on 
succeeding  to  St.  Paul's,  May,  1665),  he  did  not  lose 
interest  in  it.  In  one  way  his  connexion  with  St. 
Paul's  probably  influenced  the  final  result;  for  both 
before  and  after  the  Great  Fire  he  was  in  constant 
intercourse  with  Christopher  Wren,  in  surveying  the 
old   Cathedral,  which  was  becoming  ruinous,   and  in 

*  D'Oyly's  Life  of  Sancroft,  vol.  i.,  p.  130.  The  original  letter 
is  in  the  College  treasury,  and  will  be  given  at  length  hereafter. 


DEVELOPMENT  OF  THE  BUILDINGS     11 

making  plans  for  the  new  one  after  the  fire.  It  was  no 
doubt  in  part  owing  to  this  intimacy  that  Wren  was 
asked  to  make  a  plan  for  the  new  chapel,  and  for  the 
cloister  and  noble  gallery  above  it,  which  is  now  such  a 
notable  feature  in  the  College.  Sancroft's  successor  in 
the  mastership  (1666),  Dr.  Breton,  was  eager  to  cany 
out  the  project,  and,  writing  in  January,  1667,  to  San- 
croft,  he  mentions  the  receipt  of  '  the  modell  of  our 
Chapell,"  for  which  he  conveys  the  warm  thanks  of  the 
whole  society.  In  another  letter  (September  24,  1667) 
he  mentions  two  criticisms  on  the  model :  first,  that  it 
did  not  seem  lofty  enough,  and,  secondly,  that  if  there 
was  to  be  no  east  window  the  side-windows  should  be 
larger.  Sancroft  started  the  subscription  list  for  the 
chapel,  and  subscribed  munificently  himself. 

The  work  was  begun  early  in  1668.  In  January  Breton 
writes  to  Sancroft :  '  We  prepare  for  the  foundation  of 
our  Chapell,  and  much  desire  Dr.  Wren''s  advice  upon 
the  place."  In  February  he  went  into  Northampton- 
shire, and  signed  a  contract  with  Simon  Wise,  of  Dean, 
and  Nicholas  Ashby,  of  Ketton,  for  the  supply  of 
stone.  And  in  March  money  is  recorded  as  paid  to 
labourers  for  pulling  down  the  old  wall  on  the  east  side 
of  the  court ;  in  May  more  is  paid  for  pumps  and 
buckets  to  remove  the  water  from  the  foundations. 
Forty  large  trees  were  given  by  the  Earl  of  Westmor- 
land (descendant  of  the  founder)  from  Apethorpe,  which 
were  brought  by  water  to  Barnwell.  Much  other 
timber  was  bought  elsewhere.  Dr.  Breton,  however, 
did  not  live  to  see  the  building  completed.  He  died  in 
1676,  and  was  succeeded  by  Dr.  Thomas  Holbech  (who 
heads  the  list  of  original  subscribers),  but  it  was  not 


12  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

till  September  29,  1677,  that  the  consecration  was  per- 
formed by  Bishop  Gunning  of  Ely.  The  gradual  im- 
provement of  the  internal  fittings  went  on  for  some  ten 
years  more,*  and  the  organ  was  not  erected  till  1682. 
The  painting  by  Giacomo  Amiconi,  a  Venetian,  now 
on  the  altar-piece  was  presented  in  1734  by  Chris- 
topher Nevile,  Fellow-commoner.  As  a  final  act  in  the 
removal  of  the  place  of  worship  of  the  College,  the 
bodies  of  Chaderton  and  Breton  were  removed  from  the 
old  to  the  new  chapel  in  December,  1677.  Along  with 
the  chapel  was  constructed  the  present  cloister  and 
gallery  above  it,  also  from  a  design  by  Wren,  who 
proposed  building  it  of  red  brick.  It  was,  however, 
for  some  unknown  reason  ashlared  from  the  first.  The 
only  other  variation  in  this  cloister  from  Wren's  design 
was  the  widening  of  the  central  arch. 

This  erection  made  the  general  configuration  of  the 
large  court  what  it  is  now.  But  its  aspect  has  under- 
gone two  changes.  First  in  the  Founder's  Range.  In 
1714-15,  on  March  10,  there  was  a  College  order  for  the 
suspension  of  two  Fellowships  because  '  a  good  sum  of 
money'  was  required  for  the  repair  of  the  buildings, 
which  '  in  the  walls,  roofs,  and  tilings  are  much  decayed 
and  out  of  repair.'  Four  years  afterwards  (August  7, 
1719)  another  College  order  directed  that  the  Founder's 
Range  should  be  pulled  down  and  a  new  range  of 
buildings  erected.  Subscriptions  were  invited,  and  a 
total  of  ^2,400  was  raised,  Thomas,  Earl  of  Westmor- 

*  The  woodwork  was  designed  by  a  Mr.  Pierce  and  Mr.  Oliver 
of  London,  executed  by  Cornelius  Austin,  and  completed  in  1678. 
But  the  east  end  was  at  first  adorned  with  purple  satin  hangings, 
which  were  replaced  (by  Bancroft's  liberality)  in  1687  by  an  altar- 
piece  of  carved  oak,  along  with  more  elaborate  altar-rails. 


DEVELOPMENT  OF  THE  BUILDINGS     13 

land,  heading  the  list  with  <£*500,  and  his  brother  and 
successor  in  the  earldom,  John,  giving  <i?100.  Besides 
this,  the  College  borrowed  .^1,100,  and  a  College  order 
of  January  8,  1725,  shows  that  this  had  not  been  paid, 
and  that  about  c^SOO  still  remained  owing  to  the  con- 
tractors. In  consequence,  therefore,  '  of  an  insigne 
detrimentum,  by  reason  of  the  great  debts  the  College 
has  contracted  in  rebuilding  that  part  of  it  commonly 
called  the  Founder's  Range,*'  it  was  agreed  not  to  fill  up 
Fellowships  till  such  time  as  the  Master  and  Fellows 
shall  think  proper.  The  debt  was  slowly  reduced,  but 
it  was  not  till  December,  1742,  that  it  was  thought 
possible  to  add  to  the  number  of  the  Fellows,  and  not 
till  October,  1745,  that  the  College  was  declared  free  of 
debt.  The  building  itself  seems  to  have  been  practically 
completed  in  the  summer  of  1724,  when  Lord  and  Lady 
Westmorland  were  entertained  in  the  College,  but 
payments  for  work  of  various  sorts  in  it  go  on  till 
October,  1728.*  The  building  was  on  October  15, 
1811,  gutted  by  an  accidental  fire,  none  of  it  escaping 
except  the  stone  front  next  the  court  and  part  of  the 
inside  walls.  Another  collection  was  made  of  d^4,484, 
and  it  was  rebuilt  in  the  same  style  and  with  the  same 
internal  arrangements,  except  that  the  panelling  of  the 
rooms  was  not  restored.  It  has  not  been  altered  since, 
except  that  the  candles  which  thirty  years  ago  dimly 
flickered  on  the  staircases  have  been  supplanted  first  by 
gas,  and  lastly  by  the  electric  light  supplied  by  the 
engine  in  the  paddock. 

*  The  range  was  henceforth  called  the  Westmorland  Building, 
and  the  arms  of  the  Earl  of  Westmorland  were  placed  over  the 
central  staircase  at  a  cost  of  ;^  150. 


14  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

The  next  alteration,  which  finally  brought  the  front 
court  to  its  present  aspect,  was  not  consummated  till 
1769.  This  was  the  demolition  of  the  old  range  facing 
Preachers'*  Street,  on  the  west  of  the  great  court,  and 
the  erection  of  the  present  frontage.  This  had  been 
contemplated  as  early  as  1752,  and  a  plan  was  prepared 
by  Mr.  Burrough  (afterwards  Sir  James)  ;  but  it 
appears  not  to  have  been  approved,  and  a  considerable 
sum  of  money  which  had  been  subscribed  was  returned 
to  the  donors.  One  at  least  of  the  objections  to  the 
scheme  came  from  the  Master  (Richardson),  who  wished 
to  have  the  combination-room  added  to  the  Lodge.  In 
1769  the  scheme  was  revived,  and  in  March  it  was 
resolved  to  adopt  the  plan  of  Sir  James  Burrough.  In 
July,  however,  of  the  same  year  a  new  plan  was  substi- 
tuted, made  by  Burroughs  pupil,  James  Essex,  who 
had  already  done  much  work  in  Cambridge  at  Queens', 
the  University  Library,  St.  Catherine's,  Trinity,  and 
Great  St.  Mary's.  He  had  also  been  employed  by  the 
College,  as  far  back  as  1764,  in  the  alteration  and  repair 
of  the  hall,"*^  and  he  now  designed  the  west  front  as  it 
stands  at  present.  Subscriptions  to  about  <£'3,000  were 
collected,  and  the  work  was  completed  in  1775.  Besides 
the  great  change  in  the  appearance  of  the  College 
thus  brought  about,  the  plan  involved  the  closing  of 
the  great  gate  in  Emmanuel  Street,  which  had  been 
the   principal   entrance   since   the   foundation   of  the 

*  The  order  for  the  alteration  of  the  hall  is  dated  June  24,  1760. 
The  decayed  walls  were  cased  in  stone,  the  eaves  were  replaced  by 
a  stone  parapet,  the  large  outside  lantern  was  removed,  and  inside 
the  original  open  roof  was  closed  by  the  present  ceiling,  and  the 
floor  relaid  with  Ketton  stone.  The  work  cost  ;^i,8oo.  The 
present  oak  floor  was  substituted  in  1876. 


DEVELOPMENT  OF  THE  BUILDINGS     15 

College.*  But  it  was  not  until  1824  that  the  gateway 
itself  disappeared.  The  court  towards  Emmanuel  Street 
had  remained  open  (except  for  a  wall)  all  through  these 
changes,  but  in  this  year  the  present  range  of  buildings, 
called  the  'New  Court,'  was  erected,  and  in  1829  the 
kitchen  range  was  extended  as  far  as  the  back  line  of 
the  1824  building.  At  the  same  time  the  old  Bungay 
Building  of  1613  was  pulled  down,  and  the  present  front 
to  St.  Andrew's  Street  cased  and  embattled. 

Since  that  time  the  alterations  have  been  mostly  on 
the  east  side  of  the  College.  In  1873-74  the  new  Lodge 
was  built,  involving  a  slight  change  in  the  division  be- 
tween the  Master's  and  Fellows'  Garden.  Such  portions 
of  the  old  Lodge  as  remained  standing  were  converted 
into  lecture-rooms  and  chambers,  the  old  lecture-room 
to  the  west  of  the  hall  being  at  the  same  time  added  to 
the  buttery.  In  1886  the  range  of  stable  building  at 
the  east  of  the  paddock  was  demolished,  and  a  hostel 
for  students  built,  which  was  doubled  by  two  new  wings 
in  1893-94,  at  which  time  also  the  house  which  stood 
immediately  east  of  the  pond  (Emmanuel  House)  was 
pulled  down,  and  the  present  Tutor's  house  erected. 

The  object  of  this  sketch  has  been  to  point  out  the 
chief  organic  changes  by  which,  step  by  step,  the 
buildings  as  they  stood  on  the  site  purchased  by  the 
founder  have  assumed  their  present  shape  and  arrange- 
ment.    Elaborate  details  are  given  with  great  accuracy 

*  The  alterations  in  the  western  range  along  St.  Andrew's  Street 
had,  however,  been  gradual,  the  south  wing  being  pulled  down 
along  with  the  Founders'  Range  in  1719;  the  middle  wing,  with  the 
butteries,  in  1769.  The  third  wing— the  Bungay  building— as 
stated  in  the  text,  remained  till  1829  {Emmanuel  College  Magazine, 
vol.  ix.,  p.  90). 


16  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

in  Willis  and  Clark's  Architectural  History  of  the 
University  of  Cambridge  (vol.  ii.),  and  much  light  has 
been  thrown  upon  this  part  of  the  College  history  by 
the  present  Bursar,  Mr.  J.  B.  Peace,  in  his  articles  in 
the  College  magazine,  in  which  he  has  printed  large 
extracts  from  the  College  accounts  and  other  documents 
in  the  treasury.  It  is  clear  that  the  College  owes  much 
to  the  zeal  and  self-denial  of  its  former  Masters  and 
Fellows,  while  the  large  subscriptions  which  were  from 
time  to  time  raised  show  that  it  won  and  preserved  the 
affection  and  loyalty  of  its  members.  The  amenity  of 
its  grounds  also  is  greatly  owing  to  the  care  and  fore- 
sight of  the  authorities  from  the  earliest  times.  Chader- 
ton,  the  first  Master,  was  a  great  planter  of  trees,  and 
rejoiced  to  think  that  he  was  thus  serving  future  ages. 
His  example  was  followed  by  others,  and  though,  of 
course,  many  of  the  best  trees  have  disappeared  from 
time  to  time,  especially  a  famous  cedar  once  in  the 
Fellows'  Garden,  the  ultimate  result  is  that  the  Em- 
manuel grounds,  for  beauty,  variety,  and  shade,  need 
fear  comparison  with  hardly  any  College  in  Cambridge. 


CHAPTER  II 

THE  FOUNDEK  AND  THE  OBJECT  OF  HIS 
FOUNDATION 

The  recoil  from  the  reactionary  policy  of  Mary's  reign 
had  been  quickened  by  the  horror  caused  by  the 
St.  Bartholomew  massacre  and  the  cruelties  of  Alva  in 
the  Netherlands.  The  religious  question  in  England 
was  also  inextricably  mixed  with  politics  by  the  action 
of  Pius  V.  in  issuing  a  Bull  deposing  Elizabeth  (1570) 
and  by  the  presence  of  Mary  of  Scotland  (1567-1587), 
round  whom  frequent  conspiracies  against  the  Queen 
centred.  All  that  there  was  of  energy  and  earnestness 
among  Englishmen  was  drawn  into  the  quarrel,  and  in 
an  ever-increasing  degree  was  found  on  the  side  of  the 
reformed  faith.  But  quickened  life  and  roused  energies 
are  certain  to  entail  diversity  of  opinion.  The  Queen 
would  have  said  '  thus  far  and  no  farther,'  and  would 
have  confined  the  revolt  from  the  ecclesiastical  govern- 
ment of  the  past,  if  not  to  the  limits  prescribed  by  her 
father,  at  least  to  those  set  by  the  legislation  of  her 
own  time.  But  such  limitation  is  beyond  the  power  of 
Sovereigns  or  Parliaments.  Awakened  intellects  and 
consciences  will   find  divergent  outlets,  all   the   more 

17  2 


18  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

surely  when  the  influence  is  not  confined  to  extremists 
and  emotional  natures,  but  reaches  the  most  sober  and 
reasonable  of  mankind.  Thus,  putting  aside  a  return 
to  '  Papistry,'  which  to  a  large  majority  of  Englishmen 
soon  came  to  be  beyond  argument,  there  was  a  growing 
belief  that  the  salvation  of  the  country  depended  on 
the  '  godliness '  of  the  people,  and  that  this  godliness 
could  only  be  secured  by  a  nearer  approach  to  primitive 
Christianity  than  the  Church  as  then  constituted  offered 
to  her  members.  The  more  uncompromising  were  for 
leaving  the  Church,  but  the  soberer  or  more  cautious 
were  for  internal  reformation  and  for  bringing  the 
Church  nearer  to  their  ideal.  P'or  this  purpose  it  was 
necessary  before  all  to  train  a  body  of  preachers,  not 
ignorant  and  violent,  but  at  once  learned  and  zealous, 
instructed  in  all  that  scholars  should  know,  but  trained 
also  to  use  their  learning  in  the  service  of  the  reformed 
faith.  This  last  is  the  spirit  in  which  Walter  Mild  may 
resolved  to  found  Emmanuel.  He  had  always  shown 
interest  in  education : 

'He  was  one  of  the  original  governors  of  the  free 
grammar-school  established  at  Chelmsford  in  March, 
1550-51,  and  gave  an  annuity  of  52s.  to  Christ's  Hospital 
in  London  by  deed  dated  April  10,  1556.  To  Christ's 
College  he,  by  deed  dated  March  10,  1568-69,  gave  £20  a 
year,  payable  out  of  the  Manor  of  Farcet,  co.  Huntingdon, 
for  the  foundation  of  a  Greek  lectureship  and  six  scholar- 
ships, and  for  the  annual  stipend  to  a  preacher  being  a 
Fellow  of  the  College,  B.D.  or  M.A.,  and  student  in 
divinity.  In  1575  he  gave  stone  for  completing  the  tower 
of  Great  St.  Mary's  Church  in  Cambridge,  and  he  warmly 
encouraged  the  foundation  of  the  free  school  at  Middleton 
in  Lancashire '  (Cooper,  Athence,  ii.  55). 


THE  FOUNDER  AND  HIS  PURPOSE       19 

His  belief  also  in  the  importance  of  preaching  may 
be  traced  in  the  records  of  the  Privy  Council,  where 
he  frequently  appears  as  using  his  influence  to  protect 
the  *  prophesyings  ■"  now  cropping  up  in  every  direc- 
tion, often  to  the  alarm  of  the  Government — which, 
perhaps  not  without  reason,  suspected  them  of  political 
tendencies — and  under  the  frown  of  most  of  the  Bishops, 
but,  as  Mildmay  believed,  from  the  natural  and  meri- 
torious desire  of  the  people  to  hear  the  Word  of  God, 
which  they  could  not  do  from  the  ignorant  and  incom- 
petent clergy.*  He  determined  that  he  could  not  do 
better  than  help  to  guide  this  inevitable  tendency  by 
providing  that,  as  the  people  would  have  preachers,  they 
might  not  have  ignorant  and  intemperate  preachers. 

The  first  question  that  arises  is — Why  could  he  not 
have  secured  this  by  endowments  in  existing  Colleges, 
particularly  in  his  own  College  of  Christ's  ?  The  answer, 
in  the  first  place,  is  furnished  by  what  we  know  of  the 
state  of  the  University  in  the  early  part  of  the  reign 
of  Elizabeth.  A  royal  letter  of  March,  1560,  refers 
to  the  fact  that '  the  study  of  divinity  and  the  Scrip- 
tures are  at  this  present  much  decayed  within  the  Uni- 
versity of  Cambridge '  (Cooper,  Annals,  ii.  159).  This 
was  the  natural  result  of  the  frequent  and  arbitrary 
changes  as  to  ecclesiastical  supremacy,  religious  cere- 

*  See  note  in  Mullinger,  University  of  Cavibridge,  p.  183.  From 
the  report  of  the  archdeaconry  of  London  (1562)  '  it  appears  that 
some  of  the  beneficed  clergy  held  three  or  four,  and  one  five,  livings 
together ;  that  few  or  none  of  the  curates  were  graduates ;  that 
many  of  the  Vicars — nay,  and  parsons — were  non-graduates ;  that 
not  above  a  third  part  of  them  were  preachers  ;  that  as  for  their 
learning,  it  was  commonly  set  down  Latine  aliquot  verba  intelligit, 
Latine  ut  cum  que  intelligit,  Latine  pauca  intelligit.  .  .  .  Scarcely  one 
in  a  hundred  is  able  and  willing  to  preach  the  Word  of  God.' 

2—2 


20  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

monies  and  dogma,  during  the  three  previous  reigns. 
The  ablest  and  most  conscientious  men  sought  refuge 
abroad,  and  either  never  returned,  or,  if  they  did, 
returned  with  feelings  embittered  against  the  opposite 
party.  Now  that  the  tide  had  turned  in  favour  of 
Protestantism,  the  Catholics  found  Cambridge  impos- 
sible, and  English  colleges  and  seminaries  were  formed 
abroad — at  Douay,  Rome,  and  elsewhere. 

The  predominant  party  left  in  possession,  however, 
was  by  no  means  at  peace  in  itself.  Intemperate  and 
aggressive  Puritanism  made  itself  more  and  more  con- 
spicuous. In  1565  George  Wythers,  M.A.,  of  Corpus, 
preached  a  sermon  '  in  which  he  urged  the  destruction 
of  all  such  painted  windows  in  the  University  as  were  of 
a  superstitious  character.  Whereupon  followed  a  great 
destruction  of  them  and  the  danger  of  a  greater  by 
some  zealots  there  '  {ibid.,  p.  215).  But  the  most 
intense  feeling  was  caused,  by  the  question  as  to 
wearing  the  square  cap  and  surplice,  '  which  many 
scrupled,  and  chose  rather  to  leave  their  colleges  and 
studies '  (ibid.,  p.  217)  ;*  and  in  the  same  year  nearly 

*  In  the  poem  called  the  Mad  Puritan  in  Pierce's  collection  of 
English  ballads  these  particular  points  are  recalled : 

•  In  the  pure  house  of  Immanuel 
I  had  my  education, 
Where  my  friends  surmise 
I  dazzled  my  eyes 
With  the  light  of  revelation  : 
Boldly  I  preach, 
Hate  a  cross,  hate  a  surplice, 
Mitres,  copes,  and  rochets : 
Come,  hear  me  pray 
Nine  times  a  day, 
And  fill  your  head  with  crochets, ' 


THE  FOUNDER  AND  HIS  PURPOSE       21 

the  whole  of  the  Fellows  and  scholars  of  St.  John's 
came  into  chapel  without  their  surplices  and  hoods,  and 
'withal  made  some  diversity  in  the  manner  of  the 
administration  of  the  communion,  and  so  continued  to 
do'  (ibid.,  p.  219).  The  movement  against  the  surplice 
spread  to  Trinity  and  other  Colleges.  It  was,  of  course, 
only  the  outward  expression  of  an  anti-conformist 
revolt,  which  now  found  its  most  eminent  champion  in 
Thomas  Cartwright,  who  was  so  popular  a  preacher  that 
when  he  preached  at  St.  Mary's  'the  windows  were 
taken  out  to  enable  those  to  hear  him  who  could  not 
get  into  the  church,'  and  who,  as  Lady  Margaret  Pro- 
fessor, 'strongly  attacked  the  Church  establishment, 
contrasting  existing  institutions  and  practices  with 
Apostolic  times.'  His  rapid  deprivation  and  subsequent 
collision  with  the  authorities  brought  out  the  fact  that 
his  opinions  were  shared  by  many  of  the  influential 
statesmen  of  the  day,  such  as  Leicester  and  Walsing- 
ham. 

Mildmay  had  long  left  the  University  when  these 
events  occurred.  There  is  little  doubt,  however,  as  to 
the  side  on  which  his  sympathies  were  likely  to  be. 
But  though  deeply  religious,  he  was  first  of  all  a  man 
of  affairs,  who  all  his  life  had  been  a  Government 
official,  and  had  served  under  such  different  Sovereigns 
as  Henry  VIII.,  Edward  VI.,  and  Mary  I.  without 
incurring  danger  or  disgrace  from  his  religious  opinions. 
Born  about  1522,  son  of  Thomas  Mildmay,  auditor  of 
the  Court  of  Augmentations,  he  had,  after  a  short 
career  at  Christ's,  followed  his  father's  footsteps,  and 
before  the  death  of  Henry  VIII.  had  obtained  some 
subordinate  position  in  the  same  court,  and  before  1546 


22  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

had  been  appointed  one  of  its  two  Surveyors-General. 
The  various  offices  which  he  held  thenceforth,  the  com- 
missions on  which  he  served,  and  the  grants  and  manors 
which  he  received  in  payment,  are  all  set  forth  by 
Cooper  {A  thence,  ii.  51  sq,),  and  copied  thence  into 
the  Dictionary  of  National  Biography.  It  is  enough 
for  our  purpose  to  note  that  he  does  not  appear  to 
have  been  for  a  single  day  unconnected  with  some 
position  of  trust.  He  generally  held  several  at  the  same 
time,  and  in  1566  succeeded  Sir  Richard  Sackville  as 
Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  an  office  which  he  retained 
till  his  death  (May  31,  1589).  Such  a  man,  however 
much  he  may  have  sympathized  with  the  religious  views 
of  the  advanced  Puritans,  is  not  likely  to  have  approved 
the  breaches  of  the  law  which  brought  upon  Cartwright 
and  others  so  much  trouble  and  persecution;  he  was 
more  likely  to  have  agreed  with  Bartholomew  Clark,  of 
King''s,  who 

'  complained  what  an  impediment  these  contentions  had 
laid  in  the  way  to  all  useful  and  learned  studies.  That 
these  men  had  by  their  counsels  so  disturbed  all  things, 
that  the  time  which  was  wont  heretofore  to  be  employed 
in  good  arts  and  sciences  was  now  spent  and  consumed  in 
trivial  janglings  de  lana  caprina '  (Cooper,  Afui.,  ii.  224). 

He  was,  indeed,  careful  to  disclaim  any  breach  of  the 
law,  as  in  the  often-repeated  story  of  his  reply  to 
Elizabeth,  who  said  that  she  had  heard  that  '  he  had 
erected  a  Puritan  foundation  :** 

'  No,  madam,  far  be  it  from  me  to  countenance  any- 
thing contrary  to  your  established  laws  ;  but  I  have  set  an 
acorn  which,  when  it  becomes  an  oak,  God  alone  knows 
what  will  be  the  fruit  thereof.' 


THE  FOUNDER  AND  HIS  PURPOSE       26 

Still,  he  had  in  his  mind  to  secure  by  his  foundation 
something  that  he  did  not  think  could  be  got  at  Christ's 
or  elsewhere.  His  College  was  to  be  for  divinity 
students — at  any  rate,  as  far  as  scholars  and  Fellows 
were  concerned,  as  was  indicated  by  the  inscription  over 
the  gateway  already  quoted  (p.  6). 

'I  wish  all/  he  says  in  his  nineteenth  statute,  'to  under- 
stand, whether  Fellows,  scholars,  or  even  pensioners,  who 
are  to  be  admitted  into  the  College,  that  the  one  object 
which  I  set  before  me  in  erecting  this  College  was  to 
render  as  many  as  possible  fit  for  the  administration  of  the 
Divine  Word  and  Sacraments;  and  that  from  this  seed- 
ground  the  English  Church  might  have  those  that  she  can 
summon  to  instruct  the  people  and  undertake  the  office  of 
pastors,  which  is  a  thing  necessary  above  all  others.  There- 
fore let  Fellows  and  scholars  who  obtrude  into  the  College 
with  any  other  design  than  to  devote  themselves  to  sacred 
theology,  and  eventually  to  labour  in  preaching  the  Word, 
know  that  they  are  frustrating  my  hope  and  occupying  the 
place  of  Fellow  or  scholar  contrary  to  my  ordinance.* 

The  ultimate  aim  of  the  founder,  therefore,  was  that  I 
his  scholars  and  Fellows,  after  devoting  their  time  at 
Cambridge  to  the  study  of  theology,  should  become 
preachers  in  various  parts  of  the  country.  The  former 
of  these  objects  he  endeavoured  to  secure  by  enforcing 
residence  with  great  strictness,  and  suspending  all 
payment  of  stipend  during  absence  (except  for  causes 
to  be  approved  by  the  Master  and  a  majority  of  the 
society),  thus  preventing  them  from  occupying  the  time 
which  he  intended  to  be  devoted  to  theological  study  in 
acting  as  private  chaplains  or  tutors  or  in  similar  outside 
work.    The  second  object — that  they  should  eventually 


24  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

become  preachers — he  tried  more  effectually  to  promote 
by  a  supplementary  statute  or  injunction  given  in  1587 
{de  mora  sociorum),  which  enacted  that  a  Fellow  should 
vacate  his  Fellowship  when  of  the  standing  of  D.D. 
(ten  years  from  M.A.),  or,  if  he  actually  took  that 
degree,  at  the  end  of  a  year  after  doing  so.  He  stated 
the  object  of  this  statute  thus  : 

'We  have  founded  the  College  with  a  design  that  it 
should  be  seed-plot  of  learned  men  for  the  supply  of  the 
Church,  and  for  the  sending  forth  of  as  large  a  number  as 
possible  of  those  who  shall  instruct  the  people  in  the 
Christian  faith.  We  would  not  have  any  Fellow  suppose 
that  we  have  given  him  in  this  College  a  perpetual  abode 
— a  warning  which  we  deem  the  more  necessary  in  that  we 
have  ofttimes  been  present  when  many  experienced  and 
wise  men  have  taken  occasion  to  lament,  and  have  sup- 
ported their  complaints  by  past  and  present  instances, 
that  in  other  Colleges  a  too  protracted  stay  of  Fellows  has 
been  no  slight  bane  to  the  common  weal  and  to  the 
interests  of  the  Church  '  (Mullinger,  i.  314). 

This  object  of  the  founder  had  the  full  sympathy  of 
the  first  Master,  Chaderton.  In  a  sermon  preached  at 
St.  Paul's  Cross  in  October,  1578  (the  only  work  of 
Chaderton's  that  I  have  come  across  in  print),  he  had 
denounced  in  scathing  terms  the  idle  and  unpreaching 
clergy : 

'  Where  are  the  lippes  of  those  ministers  which  doe  pre- 
serve knowledge,  or  those  messengers  of  God,  at  whose 
mouthes  his  poore  people  shoulde  seeke  his  lawe  ?  Naye 
rather,  where  be  not  whole  swarmes  of  idle,  ignorant,  and 
ungodly  Curates  and  Readers,  who  neither  can  nor  will 
goe   before   the   deare  flocke   of  Christ   in   soundnes   of 


THE  FOUNDER  AND  HIS  PURPOSE       25 

doctrine  and  integritie  of  life  ?  .  .  .  What  shall  I  saye 
of  our  domme  dogges,*  non-residents,  and  all  those  who 
serve  raortall  and  sinfull  men,  with  symonie,  flattering 
wordes,  and  servile  obedience,  not  lawfully  to  obtaine  one 
roome  in  the  vineyard  of  the  Lorde,  but  two,  three,  foure 
or  moe  places  (which  is  unlawful),  the  which  though  they 
miscall  preferments,  yet  in  deede  they  be  so  weighty 
charges,  that  the  wysest  and  strongest  of  all  is  altogether 
insufficient  for  an  acceptable  discharge  thereof.' 

And  this  sympathy  with  the  founder's  object  con- 
tinued to  the  end.  When,  in  1627,  the  Fellows  peti- 
tioned the  King  to  abrogate  the  statute  (Sidney,  the 
only  other  College  which  had  had  a  similar  statute, 
having  already  obtained  its  abolition),  Chaderton,  who 
had  ceased  for  five  years  to  be  Master,  and  was  residing 
in  the  town,  drew  up  a  paper  addressed  to  the  Vice- 
Chancellor  and  Heads,  arguing  strongly  against  setting 
aside  the  express  design  of  the  founder : 

'  I  am  fully  persuaded,'  he  says,  '  upon  divers  speeches 
which  I  have  heard  at  severall  tymes  from  him,  that  he 
would  rather  not  have  founded  the  College,  than  have 
omitted  this  statute.  Other  statutes  were  suggested  to 
him  by  friends,  but  this  proceeded  soly  from  himself,  and 
he  took  more  time  of  deliberation  to  compose  and  sett 
downe  this  statute  than  any  other.' 

What  has  been  said  will  sufficiently  explain  why 
Mildmay  preferred  erecting  a  new  foundation  to  bestow- 

*  A  sermon  once  a  month  seems  to  have  been  the  rule  in  parishes 
where  the  new  •  prophesyings '  had  not  found  their  way.  Hall's 
Satires,  ii.  5  : 

•  Who  wants  a  Churchman  that  can  service  say, 
Read  fast  and  fair  his  monthly  homily  ?' 


26  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

ing  more  money  on  any  existing  one,  especially  as  his 
own  College  of  Christ's  (of  which  he  had  already  been 
a  benefactor)  was  at  that  time  under  a  Master  who 
had  been  elected  contrary  to  his  advice,  and  whose 
soundness  in  Calvinistic  theology,  or  at  any  rate  whose 
energy  in  promoting  it,  was  thought  doubtful.  He 
had,  too,  in  Chaderton,  as  he  thought,  ready  to  hand 
exactly  the  man  who  could  be  trusted  to  build  up 
a  new  College  by  his  prudence  and  learning,  and  to 
give  it  the  right  direction  in  theology.  This  purpose 
of  the  founder  is  the  key  to  the  early  history  of  the 
College,  which  cannot  be  understood  unless  we  in  some 
degree  seize  his  point  of  view,  and,  whether  agreeing  or 
disagreeing  with  his  opinions,  are  prepared  to  believe  in 
their  absolute  sincerity. 


CHAPTER  III 

THE  MASTEKSHIP  OF  LAUEENCE  CHADEKTON 
(1584-1622) 

Laurence  Chaderton  was  born  (about  1539)  at 
Oldham  in  Lancashire.  His  father,  Edmund  Chader- 
ton, was  in  a  good  position,  and  an  ardent  supporter  of 
the  old  faith.  After  a  youth  much  addicted  to  country 
pursuits  and  field  sports,  Laurence  conceived  a  taste  for 
learning  under  the  tuition  of  Laurence  Vaux,  then  or 
afterwards  incumbent  of  the  Collegiate  Church  of 
Manchester,  a  strong  Papist,  who  suffered  considerable 
hardships  as  a  '  recusant '  in  the  reign  of  Elizabeth.  At 
Chrisfs,  however,  which  he  entered  in  1562,  he  acquired 
a  decided  bent  in  favour  of  Calvinism,  much  to  the 
disgust  of  his  father,  who  wrote  to  him : 

'  If  you  will  renounce  the  new  sect  which  you  have 
joined,  you  may  expect  all  the  happiness  which  an  indul- 
gent father  can  secure  you :  otherwise  I  enclose  a  shilling 
in  this  letter  to  buy  a  wallet.  Go  and  beg  for  your 
living.' 

He  appears  to  have  been  thus  left  with  little  or  no 
support  from  home,  though   the   threat   of  complete 

27 


28  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

disinheritance  does  not  appear  to  have  been  carried  out. 
He  supported  himself  meanwhile  by  teaching,  and  at 
any  rate  he  was  able  to  take  his  B.A.  degree  in  1567. 
Next  year  he  was  elected  a  Fellow,  and  was  ordained 
deacon  by  the  Bishop  of  Lincoln.  In  1571  he  took 
the  M.A.  degree,  and  in  1578  the  B.D. ;  but  he  vacated 
his  Fellowship  in  1576,  apparently  by  marriage  with 
Cecilia,  daughter  of  Nicholas  Culverwell,  Queen  Eliza- 
beth's merchant  of  wines.  He  was  a  good  scholar 
in  theology,  Latin,  Greek,  and  Hebrew,  and  had 
some  knowledge  of  French,  Spanish,  and  Italian.  He 
also  lectured  in  logic.  But  he  was  best  known  as  a 
divine  and  preacher.  His  sermons  at  St.  Clemenfs 
were  much  admired  for  'a  style  of  singular  purity, 
lucidity,  and  manliness ;  a  voice  very  clear  and  pleasing 
and  of  wonderful  flexibility,  accompanied  by  a  great 
dignity  of  manner  and  propriety  of  action.'  He  appears 
usually  to  have  preached  ex  tempoi'e,  and  in  the  preface 
to  the  sermon  delivered  at  St.  Paul's  Cross,  already 
quoted,  he  explains  that  in  writing  it  down  afterwards 
he  could  not  be  sure  of  giving  the  exact  words ;  besides, 
he  warns  his  readers  that  reading  cannot  be  so  profit- 
able as  hearing : 

'  For  it  was  both  the  zeale  of  the  speaker,  the  attention 
of  the  hearer,  the  promise  of  God  to  the  ordinary  preaching 
of  his  word,  the  mighty  and  inward  working  of  his  holy 
Spirit,  and  many  other  things  which  the  Lord  worketh 
most  mercifully  by  the  preaching  of  his  glorious  Gospel, 
which  are  not  to  be  hoped  for  by  reading  the  written 
sermons  of  his  ministers.' 

He  sometimes,  however,  wrote  his  sermons,  and  his 
biographer,  Dillingham,  says   that   he   had   a   goodly 


CHADERTON'S  MASTERSHIP  29 

volume  of  the  MSS.  They  have  not  been  preserved. 
The  astonishing  appetite  for  sermons  at  this  time  is 
illustrated  by  another  anecdote  preserved  by  Dilling- 
ham : 

'  Having  once  preached  for  two  hours,  he  said  that  he 
had  tired  his  hearers'  patience  and  would  leave  off ;  upon 
which  the  whole  congregation  cried  out :  "  For  God's  sake, 
sir,  go  on !  we  beg  you,  go  on !"  He  accordingly  con- 
tinued the  thread  of  his  discourse  for  another  hour,  to  the 
great  pleasure  and  delight  of  his  hearers.* 

The  only  anecdote  of  his  undergraduate  days  is  that 
in  one  of  the  Town  and  Gown  disturbances  (in  which  he 
engaged  with  some  vigour)  he  saved  the  life  of  Ban- 
croft, afterwards  Archbishop  of  Canterbury  and  a  great 
opponent  of  Puritanism,  at  the  risk  of  losing  his  own 
right  hand.  He  thereby  laid  the  foundation  of  a  lifelong 
friendship,  which  is  said  to  account  for  the  fact  that 
Bancroft,  though  he  harassed  Puritans  and  Calvinists 
generally,  was  never  harsh  to  Chaderton  or  to  Emmanuel. 
As  a  Fellow  of  Chrisfs  he  was  an  active  tutor,  and  had 
several  eminent  pupils,  especially  the  celebrated  divine 
William  Perkins,  author  of  at  least  forty  treatises  and 
controversial  tracts.  His  position  as  a  theologian, 
though  distinctly  Calvinistic,  was  moderate  and  tolerant. 
He  felt  great  sympathy  with  the  extreme  party,  who 
were  aggrieved  by  certain  ceremonies  and  doctrines  of  the 
Church,  particularly  in  the  matter  of  the  surplice  and 
cross  in  baptism,  but  he  does  not  seem  to  have  had 
scruples  in  these  things  himself;  rather,  he  regarded 
them  as  matters  indifferent,  while  he  never  separated 
himself   from   the   discipline    of   the   Church   or  the 


80  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

authority  of  the  law.  The  only  controversy  of  a  theo- 
logical nature  in  which  we  know  him  to  have  been 
engaged  was  with  the  French  divine  Peter  Baro,  Lady 
Margaret  Professor,  in  1581,  on  the  question  which  so 
much  agitated  the  two  parties — Arminian  and  Calvinist 
— that  of  justifying  grace  (Fuller,  Hist,  of  Cambridge, 
p.  204).  But  in  this  he  set  a  good  example  to  the  contro- 
versalists  of  the  day  by  the  gentleness  of  his  manner  and 
the  moderation  of  his  language. 

Chaderton,  therefore,  was  exactly  the  man  whom  Sir 
Walter  would  naturally  select — a  Calvinist,  a  preacher, 
accomplished  in  the  three  languages  Latin,  Greek,  and 
Hebrew,  a  fairly  learned  theologian,  in  sympathy  with 
the  advanced  school  of  Puritanism  and  yet  content  to 
stay  in  the  Church  and  abide  by  the  law,  and,  above  all, 
a  man  of  great  firmness  of  character,  and  capable  of 
impressing  all  that  came  in  contact  with  him.  That  he 
commanded  a  wide  confidence  is  shown  by  the  rapidity 
with  which  the  College  filled,  and  the  way  it  maintained 
its  numbei-s  throughout  his  mastership. 

The  College  order  book  enables  us  to  get  some  view 
of  the  manner  in  which  the  earlier  society  was  employed, 
and  the  principles  on  which  they  endeavoured  under  his 
direction  to  form  the  corporate  life.  We  must  observe 
that  the  system  of  a  single  College  Tutor  had  not  then 
begun.  Each  undergraduate  had  a  Tutor,  but  it  might 
be  any  one  of  the  Fellows,  apparently  at  his  choice.  The 
disciplinary  authorities  were  the  Master  and  Dean,  the 
latter  being  appointed  year  by  year.  The  education 
was  in  the  hands  of  Lecturers — a  Head  Lecturer,  a 
Greek  Lecturer,  and  a  Lecturer  in  Logic — each  of  whom 
examined  his  own  class,  and  could  punish  the  youths 


CHADERTON'S  MASTERSHIP  31 

*  when  they  offend.'  For  religious  instruction  there  was 
a  Catechist,  who  not  only  lectured  in  the  chapel,  but 
questioned  the  students  publicly.  Even  then  the 
question  of  compulsory  Greek  seems  to  have  been 
started,  for  a  special  order  (1598-1600)  was  needed  to 
ordain  that  *  every  Scholler  under  the  degree  of  a 
Bachelour  of  Arte  shall  be  bounde  to  be  an  audi  tour  of 
the  Greeke  Lecturer,  except  it  shall  seem  goode  unto 
the  Lecturer  with  the  assent  of  the  Master  and  his 
tutor  to  exempt  any  one  particularly.'  It  also  required 
a  special  order  at  the  same  time  to  give  the  Greek 
Lecturer  the  same  authority  in  examining  them,  seeing 
exercises,  and  punishing  defaults,  as  the  Head  Lecturer 
had  'concerning  the  morning  lectures.'  Questionists  are 
to  sit  'to  be  opposed'  on  January  13  and  14  in  the 
parlour  from  1  to  3  p.m.  The  books  necessary  for  them 
to  have  read  are  '  Ramus'  Logick,  Aristotle's  Organoji, 
Ethics,  Politiques  and  Physiques,  and  if  they  can  or 
will  they  may  read  Phrigius  his  Natural  Philosophia.'' 

No  scholar  for  any  cause,  'the  stuards  only  ex- 
cepted,' is  to  go  into  the  kitchen,  and  everybody  is 
to  pay  the  steward  for  his  commons  in  advance. 
Dinner  was  at  11  a.m.,  supper  at  6.  But  the  butler 
was  to  have  the  buttery  open  from  8  to  8.30  a.m. — 
to  give,  I  suppose,  the  morning  draught — again  for  a 
few  minutes  before  3  p.m.,  and  lastly  from  7  to  8  p.m. 
The  College  gates  were  shut  at  ten,  and  a  bell  was 
rung,  after  which  it  was  an  offence  to  be  out.  Not 
only  was  attendance  at  chapel  required,  but  every 
undergraduate  and  Bachelor  had  to  attend  the  prayers 
of  his  Tutor  '  everie  night  at  eight  of  the  clock,  so 
as   everie  Tutor  may  see  him  at  that  time  and  be 


32  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

answerable  for  their  good  behaviour  at  that  hower, 
agreeably  to  the  peace  and  good  name  of  the  said 
Colledge.''  Nor  was  this  the  only  safeguard  of  discipline. 
The  undergraduates  were  expected  to  be  at  work  '  in  the 
calling '  at  all  times  in  the  day  except  certain  hours  of 
recreation,  viz.,  one  hour  after  dinner  and  after  supper — 
i.e.,  12  to  1  and  7  to  8  o'clock — '  unless  some  publique 
exercise  of  learning  or  religion  doe  require  their 
presence.'  The  superintendence  of  the  several  stair- 
cases also  was  divided  among  the  Fellows  '  to  looke  to  all 
that  goe  up  and  downe  his  stairs  to  their  lodging  and 
to  the  latrine ' ;  while  two  Fellows  had  the  special  duty  of 
looking  '  to  disorders  and  all  indecencies  committed  in 
the  Chappel  and  in  the  hall  at  all  tymes,'  two  more  '  to 
disorders  and  ill-behaviour  in  the  court  and  back  sides,' 
and,  lastly,  two  more  '  to  inquire  of  such  as  goe  often  out 
of  the  Colledge  or  tarry  long  forth  or  frequent  houses  in 
the  town';  while  Mr.  Chadwick,  Mr.  Pickering  and 
Mr.  Cock  were  especially  *  to  endeavour  to  teach  sound 
doctrine  and  confute  error,  at  other  times  than  only 
when  they  are  bound  by  statutes  of  the  University  and 
of  the  College  so  to  doe.' 

A  meeting  of  the  society  was  to  be  held  on  the  first 
Tuesday  of  every  month  to  consider  cases  of  discipline 
connected  with  the  office  of  Dean  or  Lecturer.  To  secure 
that  the  doctrines  taught  in  chapel  were  sound,  the 
Fellows  also  agreed  to  meet  at  seven  in  the  evening  of  any 
day  in  which  there  had  been  an  '  exercise.'  At  this  meet- 
ing anyone  might  express  his  dissent  from  anything  that 
had  been  said,  and  the  person  whose  doctrine  was  pro- 
nounced faulty  was  to  be  informed  of  it,  but  he  was  not 
to  be  informed  of  any  individual's  censure :  the  decision 


CHADERTON^S  MASTERSHIP  SS 

was  to  be  that  of  the  whole  body.  That  there  was  a 
danger  of  personal  collision  is  shown  by  a  later  order 
(October  2,  1595) 

'  that  no  fellow  nor  Pensioner,  upon  anie  cause  or  private 
occasion,  shall  either  in  sermon,  commonplace,  or  probleme 
in  the  Chappell,  use  any  speech  or  speeches  which  tend  to 
the  disgraceinge  of  any  particular  person,  or  noting  private 
faults  disgracefullie,  which  can  have  no  sound  spirituall 
use  of  edification,  or  at  least  not  any  good  use  without 
that  ill.  And  besides  our  agreement  we  doe  promise 
before  God  that  we  will  never  use  [nor]  intend  to  use  any 
such  in  our  exercises  hereafter. ''' 

In  spite  of  all  these  precautions  for  the  good  order 
and  moral  benefit  of  the  undergraduates,  there  is  not 
wanting  evidence  that  youthful  human  nature  was  not 
crushed  out  by  Puritan  theology.  Minor  offences  were 
no  doubt  punished  by  the  Tutors.  Graver  ones  sub- 
jected the  culprit  to  being  '  admonished  **  by  the  Master 
in  the  presence  of  the  Dean,  sometimes  assisted  by  the 
Senior  Fellow.  Of  these  admonitions  forty-four  are 
recorded  in  the  long  mastership  of  Chaderton,  an 
average  of  little  more  than  one  a  year.  A  certain 
John  Cook  heads  the  black  list,  being  *  admonished '  on 
October  25,  1586, 

'partly  for  disobedience  to  the  Master  and  unreverent 
abusing  of  the   Fellows  by  his  stout  and  stubborne  be- 

*  At  first  the  public  prayers  seem  to  have  been  in  the  hall. 
There  is  a  record  of  the  first  celebration  of  the  Communion  on 
May  26,  1588,  when  the  attendants  and  absentees  were : 


Present. 

Absent. 

Master  and  Fellows 
Fellow  Commoners 

B.A 

Pensioners  and  sizars 

...     II 
...      6 
...      4 
•••     57 

For  lack  of  knowledge 

For  age         

For  health 

No  reason 

..     16 
..      9 
••       3 
..     12 

34  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

haviour,  and  partly  for  bending  a  stone  bowe  and  charging 
it  with  a  pellet  with  intent  as  he  saith  only  to  feare  Henry 
Deane,  whom  also  he  abused  with  uncharitable  words,  and 
for  other  unsemely  and  unchristian  behaviour.' 

Next  year  a  student  is  '  admonished  **  for  '  abusing  of 
his  tongue  in  calling  his  fellow  rakell  and  also  for 
abusing  of  his  hands  in  striking  of  him  divers  blowes, 
openly  provoking  him  also  to  strike  again  by  offering 
the  first  blow/  In  the  next  year  (1589)  there  are  two 
admonitions  for  '  railing,  striking,  and  fighting."*  A 
Fellow-commoner  in  1590  is  admonished  for  *  slandering 
Mr.  Richardson,  Fellow  and  Lecturer  of  the  College.' 
In  the  next  year  an  undergraduate  is  admonished  for 
'  disorderly  conduct  in  Chapel,  but  specially  for  talking, 
and  in  the  time  of  prayers,  to  the  great  disturbance  of 
the  whole  company.'  Others  seem  to  have  been  given 
to  field  sports  on  '  Hogmagog  hills  contrary  to  the 
Master's  commandment,'  and  apparently  in  spite  of  the 
owner's  wish,  one  undergraduate  being  admonished  for 

'  miscalling  and  ray  ling  upon  my  Lord  Rutland's  man,  as 
also  for  saying  that  my  lord  himself  was  but  a  chite  and 
that  he  was  maintained  by  Potthunters,  and  further  for 
challenging  my  lord's  man  to  meet  him  in  what  place  he 
would  apoynt.' 

The  offences  get  rather  woi-se  as  time  goes  on.  '  Strik- 
ing with  a  knife,'  '  drinking  in  a  suspicious  house  in 
Barnwell,'  '  being  out  after  ten  and  coming  over  the 
wall,'  'lying  out  of  College,  being  in  an  alehouse,  and 
being  in  company  with  others  who  brake  downe  glasse 
windows,'  *  drunkenness  and  spending  18^  in  ale  and 
other  liquors,'  '  being  out  of  College  after  the  gates  were 


CHADERTON'S  MASTERSHIP  35 

locked  and  going  about  the  streets,  and  for  riding  the 
horses  in  Mr.  Wolfe's  close  and  making  them  break  out 
into  the  course,'  '  being  taken  by  the  Proctor  in  a 
scandalous  house,'  'drinking  excessively  after  nine  or 
ten  in  a  chamber  next  to  the  street ' :  these  offences 
alternate  with  insigms  negUgentia  in  divinis  or  in 
matutinis  precibus,  and  neglecting  *  exercises '  in  the  hall, 
or  prayers,  lectures,  and  '  acts'  in  the  hall,  in  the  years 
between  1600  and  the  end  of  Chader ton's  mastership. 
They  rather  give  the  impression  that  discipline  was 
getting  somewhat  relaxed,  or  perhaps  that  the  under- 
graduates were  being  drawn  from  wider  and  more  various 
strata  of  society.  At  any  rate,  they  have  a  familiar 
ring,  and  link  the  generations  together,  if  not  with 
'  natural  piety,'  yet  at  least  with  natural  sympathy. 

In  the  internal  management  of  the  College  on  the 
ecclesiastical  side  there  was  from  the  first  considerable 
variation  from  the  customs  of  other  Colleges,  which 
must,  at  any  rate,  have  been  permitted  by  Chaderton. 

'  All  other  CoUedges  in  Cambridge  do  strictly  observe, 
according  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Church  of 
Englande,  the  form  of  public  prayer  prescribed  in  the 
Communion  Booke.  In  Emm.  Colledge  they  do  follow  a 
private  course  of  public  prayer,  after  their  own  fashion, 
both  Sondaies,  Holy  daies,  and  workie  daies '  (Mullinger, 
p.  313,  from  Baker  MSS.,  vi.  85,  86). 

Again,  at  the  Hampton  Court  Conference  in  1604, 

'  Mr.  Chaderton  was  told  of  sitting  Communions  in 
Emmanuel  College ;  which  hee  said  was  so  by  reason  of 
the  seats  so  placed  as  they  be  ;  yet  that  they  had  some 
kneeling  also'  (Barlow,  p.  105). 

3—2 


36  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

This  state  of  things  continued  in  the  College,  and  in 
1636  a  strong  report  was  sent  to  Laud  : 

'Their  chapel  is  not  consecrate.  At  surplice  prayers 
they  sing  nothing  but  riming  Psalms  of  their  own  appoint- 
ment instead  of  y^  Hymnes  between  the  Lessons.  And 
Lessons  they  read  not  after  y^  order  appointed  in  y^ 
Callendar,  but  after  another  continued  course  of  their 
owne.  All  service  is  there  done  and  performed  (psalmes 
and  hymnes  and  all  if  they  read  any)  by  the  minister 
alone.  The  students  are  not  brought  up,  nor  accustomed 
to  answere  any  verse  at  all.  Before  prayers  begin  the 
Boyes  come  in  and  sitt  downe  and  put  on  and  talke  aloude 
of  what  they  list.  Their  seates  are  placed  round  about 
and  above  the  Communion  Table.  When  they  preach  or 
commonplace  they  omit  all  service  after  y^  first  or  second 
lesson  at  the  furthest.' 

How  far  these  irregularities  were  from  being  contrary 
to  the  opinions  of  a  large  part  of  the  country  is  shown 
by  the  steadiness  with  which  the  numbers  kept  up 
throughout  Chaderton's  mastership.  As  all  students 
had  to  live  within  the  College  walls,  there  was  naturally 
some  variation.  In  the  first  two  years,  or  rather  year 
and  a  half,  there  were  seventy-six  admissions ;  in  the 
next  (1586),  twenty ;  after  that  they  vary  from  twenty- 
seven  to  forty-two  till  1611,  when  they  suddenly  go  up 
to  fifty-eight,  and  from  that  year  to  the  last  of  Chader- 
ton's  mastership  there  is  a  very  high  average,  cul- 
minating in  his  last  year  (1622)  in  the  largest  entry  of 
all — seventy-nine. 

The  personal  influence  of  Chaderton  seems  to  have 
defended  the  College  from  the  frowns  of  royalty,  so 
long,  at  any  rate,  as  James  I.   was  King.     He  came 


CHADERTONS  MASTERSHIP  37 

to  Cambridge  in  1615  (March  7-10),  accompanied  by 
Prince  Charles,  and,  among  other  things,  visited  Em- 
manuel. 

'  Someone/  says  Dillingham,  '  pointed  out  to  him  that 
the  chapel  was  far  out  of  the  eastward  position  ;  where- 
upon Chaderton  remarked  to  the  King  that  he  had  been 
told  that  the  same  was  true  of  the  royal  chapel  at  White- 
hall. The  King  answered  ;  "  God  will  not  turn  away  his 
face  from  the  prayers  of  any  holy  and  pious  man,  to  what- 
ever region  of  heaven  he  directs  his  eyes.  So,  doctor,  I 
beg  you  to  pray  for  me."  * 

If  we  may  trust  a  verse  of  Corbet's  poem  on  King 
James's  visit,  he  was  not  spared  a  service  in  the  chapel. 
After  describing  how  the  other  Colleges  were  painted 
and  adorned  for  the  visit,  he  goes  on  : 

'  But  the  pure  house  of  Emmanuel 
Would  not  be  like  proud  Jezebel, 
Nor  show  herself  before  the  King 
An  hypocrite,  or  painted  thing ; 
But,  that  the  ways  might  all  prove  fair, 
Conceiv'd  a  tedious  mile  of  prayer.* 

The  title  of  '  Doctor '  which  the  King  gives  Chader- 
ton he  had  abstained  from  acquiring  till  two  years 
before,  though  the  founder  had  ordered  that  the 
Master  should  be  a  Doctor  of  Divinity.  But  on  the 
visit  of  Prince  Charles  and  his  brother-in-law,  Frederic, 
Count  Palatine  (the  'winter  King'),  on  March  3-4, 1612, 
he  consented  to  take  the  degree  at  the  special  com- 
mencement held  in  honour  of  the  Princes,  according  to 
Dillingham,  on  the  express  wish  of  the  King,  conveyed 
by  Prince  Charles.    On  which  occasion  he  is  said  to  have 


38  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

so  charmed  the  august  visitors  by  his  conversation  that 
Frederic  could  not  refrain  from  taking  his  hand  and 
leading  him  publicly  through  the  University  with  every 
mark  of  respect.  King  James  had  also  nominated  him 
on  the  first  Cambridge  Committee  for  Revising  the 
English  Version  of  the  Bible. 

The  men  who  formed  the  earliest  society,  no  less 
than  the  first  Master,  seem  to  have  answered  the 
intention  of  the  founder,  both  as  to  their  pursuits  in 
the  University  and  in  their  subsequent  careers  as 
preachers.  Of  the  three  original  Fellows  —  Charles 
Chadwick  (from  Christ's),  William  Jones  and  Laurence 
Pickering  (from  Clare) — the  last-named  seems  to  have 
taken  the  chief  part  in  the  government  of  the  College, 
his  name  occurring  as  Dean  at  the  foot  of  'admonitions' 
at  intervals  up  to  1589.  His  place  was  then  taken  by 
John  Cock  and  John  Richardson  successively,  who  were 
two  of  the  six  Fellows  elected  within  a  year  of  the  founda- 
tion. Charles  Chadwick,  one  of  the  original  three,  was 
Dean  in  1587.  He  was  a  member  of  an  old  Lancashire 
family  (which  may  have  caused  him  to  be  recommended 
by  Chaderton),  and  he,  with  the  other  two,  seems  before 
long  to  have  accepted  Church  preferment.  Chadwick 
was  Rector  of  Woodham  Ferrers  in  Essex ;  Jones,  of  East 
Bergholt*  (1591-1636) ;  and  Pickering — probably  one  of 
the  Northamptonshire  Pickerings,  the  head  of  which.  Sir 
Gilbert  Pickering,  was  afterwards  a  great  Parliamentary 
leader — is  vaguely  said  to  have  had  a  benefice  '  in  the 
West.'  Of  the  six  Fellows  elected  next  after  the  three 
original  members  of  the  society,  Nathaniel  Gilbie  was 
the  son  of  one  of  the  most  violent  of  the  early  Puritans, 

*  The  advowson  of  this  living  was  acquired  by  the  College  in 
X840. 


EARLY  MEMBERS  OF  THE  COLLEGE    39 

Anthony  Gilbie,  who,  after  an  exile  at  Frankfort  and 
Geneva  during  Mary's  reign,  returned  to  England  in 
that  of  Elizabeth,  and  became  Vicar  of  Ashby-de-la- 
Zouch.  Gilbie  was  Dean  in  1592,  and  afterwards  a 
preacher  at  Bedford.  His  most  celebrated  pupil  was 
Joseph  Hall.  Of  the  other  six,  William  Bright  (from 
Christ's)  became  a  preacher  at  Shrewsbury,  John  Grey 
(from  Queens')  in  London.  Of  John  Cock's  career — 
Dean  in  1590 — we  have  no  information ;  but  two  others, 
Branthwaite  and  Richardson,  remained  in  Cambridge. 
Having  been  elected  before  the  supplementary  statute 
of  1587,  they  obtained  dispensation  from  the  necessity 
of  vacating  their  Fellowships  at  the  standing  of  D.D.* 
William  Branthwaite  (from  Clare)  proceeded  Doctor  of 
Divinity  in  1598,  was  one  of  the  Revisers  of  the  Bible 
in  1607-1611,  his  special  part  being  the  Apocrypha. 
He  was  elected  Master  of  Caius  in  1607,  and  died  as 
Vice-Chancel  lor  in  1619.  He  founded  two  exhibitions 
at  Emmanuel,  and  left  £^0  to  the  library  and  some 
plate  to  the  College.  John  Richardson  (also  from 
Clare)  graduated  in  1581,  and  took  his  M.A.  degree 
the  year  after  his  election  at  Emmanuel.  In  1607  he 
was  appointed  Regius  Professor  of  Divinity,  in  1609 
Master  of  Peterhouse,  and  in  1615  Master  of  Trinity, 
though,  according  to  Fuller,  he  only  two  months  before 
had  a  somewhat  curious  encounter  with  James  I.  The 
King,  among  other  things  in  his  visit  to  Cambridge, 
was  present  at  a  special  Act  of  Divinity  in  which 
Richardson  as  opposer  argued  in  favour  of  the  excom- 

*  Thus,  the  petitioners  against  the  statute  in  1627  allege  that  it 
had  not  '  taken  any  effect  by  forcing  any  to  forsake  their  places  at 
that  time.'    But  see  the  case  of  Chadwick  in  the  next  chapter. 


40  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

munication  of  Kings,  instancing  St.  Ambrose  and  the 
Emperor  Theodosius. 

'  Upon  which  the  King  with  some  passion  returned  : 
"  Profecto  fuit  hoc  Ambrosio  insolentissime  factum  !"  To 
which  Richardson  rejoined :  "  Responsum  ver6  regium  et 
Alexandro  dignum  !  hoc  non  est  argumenta  dissolvere  sed 
dissecare."  And  so,  sitting  down,  desisted  from  further 
dispute/ 

On  his  death  (April  20, 1625)  he  left  all  his  folio  and 
quarto  books  to  Emmanuel.  He  was  one  of  the  earliest 
divines  at  Cambridge  to  support  the  Arminian  doc- 
trines as  to  predestination  against  those  of  Calvin,  in 
which,  probably,  he  was  opposed  to  most  of  the  members 
of  his  College. 

Three  other  early  members  of  the  foundation  may 
here  be  mentioned  who  were  the  immediate  products  of 
the  life  of  the  place  as  formed  by  these  men.  William 
Bedell  was  entered  in  the  first  year  of  the  College 
(1584),  was  elected  scholar  in  the  same  year,  and 
a  Fellow  in  1593,  having  come  from  Essex,  one  of  the 
two  counties  (the  other  being  Northamptonshire)  to 
which  a  preference  was  given  by  the  founder.  At  the 
same  election  James  Waddesworth  was  elected  scholar, 
but,  apparently  from  want  of  means,  did  not  come  into 
residence  till  the  next  year,  when  he  obtained  a  sizar- 
ship.  In  the  year  of  Waddesworth^s  B.A.  degree  (1589) 
Joseph  Hall  entered,  and  was  elected  a  scholar  in  1591, 
and  Fellow  in  1595.  These  three  men  (all  remarkable 
in  their  way)  had  careers  which  thus  began  alike,  but 
ended  very  differently.  They  must  have  been  well 
acquainted.     Bedell  says,  in  his  dedication  of  Copies  of 


EARLY  MEMBERS  OF  THE  COLLEGE     41 

Certain  Letters,  that  he  and  Waddesworth  were  '  chosen 
scholars  in  the  same  election,  lodged  in  the  same 
chamber,  and  after  ministers  in  the  same  Diocese/ 
Though  they  were  friends,  they  had  not  all  the  same 
tastes  in  early  life.  Bedell  stayed  in  the  College  till  near 
the  time  of  his  Doctor's  standing,  acting  as  Catechetical 
Lecturer  and  Bursar.  He  was  a  hard  student,  and 
made  himself  well  known  for  his  mastery  of  Latin, 
Greek,  Hebrew,  and  Arabic ;  and,  though  a  firm  Church- 
man and  not  averse  to  decent  forms  and  ceremonies — 
for  instance,  in  none  of  his  churches  did  he  ever  allow 
the  Communion-table  to  be  brought  down  into  the  body 
of  the  church — was  yet  in  general  sympathy  with  the 
Calvinistic  teaching  of  the  majority  of  his  contem- 
poraries at  Cambridge,  and  was  much  influenced  by 
Chaderton,  of  whom  he  always  speaks  in  his  letters 
with  reverence  and  affection. 

Waddesworth,  who  remained  a  much  shorter  time  in 
the  College,  and  was  instituted  to  the  rectory  of  Pake- 
field  in  Suffolk  in  1598,  having  doubtless  been  engaged 
in  clerical  work  before,  seems  to  have  taken  quite  a 
different  turn  in  theology.  According  to  his  son,  he 
really  became  a  Roman  Catholic  in  1604 ;  but  at  any 
rate  in  the  next  year,  on  going  to  Spain  as  chaplain 
to  Sir  Charles  Corn wal lis,  the  Ambassador,  he  openly 
abjured  the  English  Church,  and  became  an  officer  in 
the  Inquisition  and  English  tutor  to  the  Infanta,  and 
died  in  Madrid  in  November,  1623.  In  a  correspondence 
between  him.  Bedell,  and  Hall  on  this  subject,  whilst 
expressing  warm  affection  for  Bedell  and  gratitude  for 
the  charitable  nature  of  his  letters,  he  complains  of  the 
bitterness  of  Hall, '  whom  I  esteemed  either  my  friend 


42  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

or  a  modester  man  ;  whose  flaunting  epistle  I  have  not 
answered,  because  I  could  not  soil  my  hands  with  a 
poetical  railer.'  Hall,  in  fact,  while  he  stayed  in 
College,  as  he  did  till  1600,  does  not  appear  to  have 
given  his  chief  attention  to  theology.  He  was  rather 
devoted  to  literature,  especially  to  poetry,  and  above 
all  to  satire.  The  three  books  of  Toothless  Satires 
were  published  in  1597,  and  the  three  of  Biting'  Satires 
in  1598.  Other  poems  of  his  were  produced  about  the 
same  time.  He  indeed  '  passed  all  his  degrees  with 
great  applause  "*  (Fuller),  and  gained  credit  also  for  the 
way  in  which  he  read  the  '  public  rhetoric  lecture ' ;  but 
he  did  not  take  Orders  till  just  before  he  left  College, 
and  it  was  not  till  a  later  period  in  his  life  that  he 
began  writing  the  controversial  and  devotional  works 
for  which  he  is  best  known.  His  last  book  of  verse  was 
a  congratulatory  volume  on  James  I.'s  accession — The 
King's  Prophecy,  or  Weeping  Joy  (1603).  He  became 
Vicar  of  Halstead  in  Essex  in  1601 ;  Incumbent  of 
Waltham,  Essex,  in  1608 ;  was  sent  by  James  to  the 
Synod  of  Dort  (1619) ;  and  was  offered  various  Church 
preferments  by  the  King,  ultimately  becoming  Bishop 
of  Exeter  (1627),  and  of  Norwich  (1641).  From  this 
last  he  was  ejected  in  1643,  and  died  at  Higham, 
September  8,  1656. 

Bedell  left  the  College  in  1602  for  St.  MaryX  Bury 
St.  Edmunds.  In  1607  he  went  to  Venice  as  chaplain 
to  Sir  Henry  Wooton,  returned  to  Bury  in  1610,  and 
in  1616  removed  to  the  parish  of  Horningsheath.  In 
1626  he  was  appointed  Provost  of  Trinity  College, 
Dublin,  and  in  1629  Bishop  of  Kilmore  and  Ardagh. 
The  latter  he  resigned,  and  remained  Bishop  of  Kilmore 


JOSEPH  HALL  AND  BEDELL  43 

till  his  death,  February  7,  1642,  having  suffered  con- 
siderable hardship  and  a  short  imprisonment  in  the  Irish 
Rebellion.  In  all  these  positions  Bedell  showed  a 
sturdy  honesty  and  a  determination  to  resist  oppression 
and  correct  abuses,  which  brought  him  into  many  con- 
troversies and  even  legal  proceedings,  as  a  country 
clergyman  no  less  than  as  Provost  of  Trinity  and 
Bishop.  But  his  gentleness  and  purity  of  motive  pre- 
vented these  controversies,  especially  when  they  were 
on  points  of  theology,  from  making  him  personal 
enemies,  and  a  Roman  Catholic  priest  was  heard  to 
exclaim  over  his  grave,  *0h  sit  anima  mea  cum  Be- 
dello  l'  He  was  not  a  prolific  author.  A  poem  on  the 
Powder  Plot,  an  Examination  of  Certain  Motives  of 
ReciLsancy,  several  Latin  translations  of  the  Italian 
works  of  Paolo  Sarpi,  A  Copie  of  Certain  Letters  that 
have  passed  hetxveen  Spain  and  England,  with  coiTe- 
spondence  with  Ward,  Laud,  and  others,  and  a  treatise 
On  the  Efficiency  of  Grace  (both  printed  for  the  first  time 
in  1903),  make  up  almost  all  that  has  survived  ;  though 
when  he  was  in  Venice  he  is  said  to  have  written  an 
English  Grammar,  and  to  have  promoted  the  translation 
of  the  English  Prayer-Book  into  Italian,  as  in  Ireland 
he  pushed  forward  the  translation  of  the  Bible  and 
Prayer-Book  into  Irish. 

On  the  other  hand.  Hall  was  a  voluminous  writer. 
Controversial  tracts  (as  those  which  brought  on  and  con- 
tinued the  Smectymnuus  quarrel),sermons,  epistles,  con- 
templations, paraphrases,  every  kind  of  devotional  and 
expository  work,  fill  up  twelve  goodly  octavo  volumes ; 
and  he  had  the  distinction  in  the  course  of  the  Smec- 
tymnuus controversy  of  drawing  upon  himself  a  ferocious 


44  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

attack  by  Milton  in  his  An  Apology  for  Smectymnuns. 
His  own  tone  in  controversy  is  moderate,  except  in  the 
case  of  Roman  Catholics. 

Another  Fellow  of  Emmanuel  in  these  early  days 
who  was  intimate  with  Bedell,  and  must  also  have 
known  Hall  well,  was  Samuel  Ward,  elected  from 
Christ's  in  1595.  He  remained  in  the  College  till  1599, 
when  he  became  Fellow  of  Sidney,  of  which  College  he 
was  afterwards  Master  from  1609  to  1643,  having  also 
been  Lady  Margaret  Professor  of  Divinity  (1622),  and, 
like  Hall,  one  of  the  delegates  at  Dort,  while,  like 
Chaderton,  Richardson,  and  Branthwaite,  he  was  one  of 
the  Revisers  of  the  Bible  of  1611.  Bedell  kept  up  an 
affectionate  correspondence  with  him  till  the  last  year 
of  his  life,  though  he  appears  to  have  differed  from  him 
to  some  degree  in  the  points  of  controversy  between  the 
Calvinists  and  Arminians.  Although  a  strong  and  rather 
narrow  Calvinist,  he  yet  was  a  firm  Churchman,  and 
refusing  to  take  the  Covenant  in  1643,  was  for  a  time  im- 
prisoned in  St.  John's,  but  presently  returned  to  Sidney, 
where  he  died  in  September  of  that  year.  He  had  long 
been  a  leading  man  in  University  business. 

This  little  group  of  men  must  have  given  a  high 
intellectual  tone  to  the  new  College,  and  have  raised  its 
reputation  in  the  University.  Yet  for  some  reason  the 
grace  of  the  Senate  (July  8,  1586)  appointing  what  we 
should  now  call  a  syndicate  to  arrange  the  admission 
of  Emmanuel  College  into  the  rota  for  appointing 
'  proctors,  taxors,  and  scrutators,'  did  not  have  the 
proposed  effect,  and  this  privilege  was  only  granted  in 
1650,  by  '  the  Committee  for  the  Reformation  of  the 
University '   (Cooper,   Ann.^   ii.    424,   iii.    434).      The 


NEW  ENGLAND  SETTLERS  4^ 

reason  of  this  delay  is  not  known  for  certain,  but  it  has 
generally  been  supposed  to  be  in  some  way  connected 
with  the  peculiarity  in  the  ecclesiastical  practices  of  the 
College.  An  equally  probable  reason  may  be  the 
small ness  of  its  endowment,  which  for  some  years  may 
well  have  made  its  ultimate  success  appear  doubtful. 
Its  numbers  indeed  were  large  and  constantly  growing, 
but  they  were  predominately  of  one  party,  not  by  any 
means  pleasing  to  a  large  section  of  the  University  or 
the  hierarchy.  One  striking  proof  of  this  is  the  number 
of  Emmanuel  men  (some  of  them  Fellows)  who  found 
their  way  eventually  to  New  England,  either  to  avoid 
prosecution  for  nonconformity  or  in  search  of  more 
congenial  surroundings.  This  forms  one  of  the  most 
striking  features  in  the  early  history  of  the  College,  and 
deserves  to  be  treated  in  some  detail. 

Among  the  first  was  John  Cotton,  elected  Fellow 
about  1608,  having  been  previously  elected  to  a  Fellow- 
ship at  Trinity.  He  stayed  long  enough  to  be  Catechist, 
Head  Lecturer,  and  Dean.  Becoming  '  converted ,''  he 
disappointed  his  hearers  at  St.  Mary's  in  the  expectation 
which  they  had  entertained  of  a  brilliant  and  learned 
discourse,  who 

'  discovered  their  vexation  by  their  not  Humming,  as 
according  to  their  sinful  and  absurd  custom  they  had  for- 
merly done,  and  the  Vice-Chancellor  for  the  very  same 
reason  graced  him  not  as  he  did  others  that  pleased 
him.' 

This  plain  sermon  was  the  signal  of  a  change  of  life, 
which  brought  much  trouble  upon  him  in  his  ministry 
at   Boston,   where  he    long   had  a  kind   of  informal 


46  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

divinity  school,  much  frequented  by  intending  ministers. 
Eventually,  to  avoid  the  tender  mercies  of  the  High 
Commission  Court,  he  set  sail  for  New  England,  which 
he  reached  after  a  seven  weeks'  voyage,  landing  at 
New  Boston,  September  3-4, 1633.  There  he  remained 
till  his  death  (December  23,  1652),  having  been  long 
the  leading  divine  in  the  colony  and  the  founder  of 
the  Free  Church, 

Thomas  Hooker,  a  Dixie  Fellow  (1607),  also  passed 
through  a  '  storm  of  soul  "*  while  Fellow  and  Catechist. 
He  afterwards  ministered  at  Chelmsford,  where  his  non- 
conformity brought  him  into  trouble  similar  to  that  of 
Cotton,  being  summoned  before  the  Court  of  High 
Commission  in  1630.  Accordingly,  after  two  years 
spent  as  a  minister  at  Rotterdam  and  a  brief  return  to 
England,  he  accompanied  Cotton  and  Stone  to  New 
England  in  1633.  He  was  the  Luther,  says  Mather,  as 
Cotton  was  the  Melancthon,  of  New  England.  He  died 
July  7,  1647. 

Another  emigrant  was  Francis  Higginson,  who  entered 
at  Emmanuel  in  1622,  and  afterwards  had  a  church  in 
Leicester,  where,  after  some  years  of  '  conformity,'  he 
eventually  lost  his  benefice  by  becoming  a  conscientious 
nonconformist.  He  continued,  however,  to  preach  for 
other  beneficed  clergy.  Bishop  Williams  of  Lincoln 
(1621-1641)  apparently  conniving  at  his  so  doing.  But 
'  when  the  hour  and  power  of  darkness  was  come  from 
Lambeth,'  he  joined  a  number  of  Puritan  emigrants  in 
1629,  invited  by  the  Governor  and  Company  of  Massa- 
chusetts Bay.  He  arrived  at  Salem  Harbour  June  24 
in  that  year,  and  with  others  set  up  a  Reformed  Church 
there,  but  died  in  August  of  the  next  year. 


NEW  ENGLAND  SETTLERS  47 

Thomas  Shepherd  (born  November  5,  1605)  was  two 
years  a  pupil  of  Cockerel  (who  went  to  North  Cadbury 
in  1622).  At  Emmanuel  'the  ministry  of  Mr.  Chader- 
ton  and  Mr.  Dickinson  struck  his  heart.**  He  became  a 
minister  or  '  lecturer '  at  Earls  Coin  in  Essex.  Being 
silenced  by  Laud,  he  became  chaplain  to  Sir  R.  Darling 
in  Yorkshire.  But  he  had  taken  up  the  role  of  exorcist 
both  in  Essex  and  Yorkshire,  and  was  quickly  silenced 
by  the  Bishop  of  Durham  (Moreton).  He  accordingly 
escaped,  and  in  the  autumn  of  1634  took  ship — on  a 
leaky  vessel  called  the  Defence — and  with  some  difficulty 
landed  in  New  England  on  October  3,  and  was '  ordained  ' 
to  the  church  at  Cambridge.  He  was  the  author  of 
many  sermons,  letters,  and  tracts,  the  title  of  one  of 
which  will  show  his  point  of  view.  It  was  printed  in 
London  in  1645,  and  is  called  New  England's  Lamenta- 
ti07is  for  Old  England's  Errors,  Another,  called  The 
Sincere  Convert^  'caus'd  much  Trouble  in  Gracious 
Christians.'     He  died  August  25,  1649. 

Nathaniel  Rogers,  son  of  a  famous  Puritan  minister 
of  Dedham  (1605-1630),  entered  Emmanuel  as  a  sizar, 
May  9,  1614,  and  afterwards  held  several  preferments 
in  England.  In  1636  (June  1)  he  sailed  for  New 
England,  in  order  to  avoid  the  ecclesiastical  censures 
which  he  foresaw,  and  was  '  ordained '  pastor  of  Ipswich, 
Massachusetts  (1638),  where  he  died  July  3,  1655. 

Samuel  Stone  entered  Emmanuel  in  1620,  and  took 
his  M.A.  degree  in  1630 ;  he  therefore  was  only  two 
years  under  Chaderton.  In  the  latter  year  he  went  as  a 
'  lecturer '  to  Towchester,  but,  finding  his  nonconformity 
likely  to  bring  trouble,  he  went  to  New  England  with 
Cotton  and  Hooker,  where  he  arrived   September  4, 


48  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

1633.  He  preached  first  at  Cambridge,  and  afterwards 
at  a  new  settlement  called  Hartford,  after  his  English 
birthplace,  where  he  died  July  20,  1663.  He  did  not 
find  complete  peace  in  America,  either,  for  a  difference 
with  a  church  elder  led  to  a  serious  schism.  By  A 
Discourse  about  the  Logical  Notion  of  a  Congregational 
Church  it  was  '  thought  by  some  that,  as  a  Stone  from 
the  sling  of  David,  he  has  mortally  wounded  that 
Goliath — a  national  political  Church,'' 

Samuel  Whiting,  born  November  20,  1597,  was  an 
intimate  friend  and  '  chamber -mate  '  of  Anthony 
Tuckney  (Fellow  1619,  Master  1645-1653).  At 
College  he  was  influenced  by  the  teaching  of  his  Tutor, 
Yates  (Fellow  1607).  He  entered  in  1613,  and  re- 
mained till  his  M.A.  degree  in  1620.  He  ministered 
first  at  Lynn,  Norfolk  ;  but  being  cited  before  the  High 
Commission  Court  for  nonconformity,  at  the  instance 
of  the  Bishop  of  Norwich  (Harsnett),  in  the  year  of  the 
death  of  James  I.  (1624),  he  removed  to  Skirbich  in 
Lincolnshire.  After  some  years  there,  being  again 
brought  into  trouble  for  nonconformity,  he  sold  his 
property,  and  took  ship  in  April,  1636,  for  Boston  in 
New  England,  from  which  he  went  to  Lynn,  where  he 
acted  as  minister  till  his  death  in  1659.* 

Not  only  did  Chaderton  encourage  the  sort  of  men 
above  described,  and  when  possible  secure  them  as 
Fellows :  he  took  pains  also  to  promote  them  elsewhere, 
when  election  was  rendered  impossible  by  the  rule  against 
having  more  than  one  Fellow  from  a  single  county. 
For   instance,   William    Bradshaw,    who   remained    in 

*  See  list  of  Emmanuel  men  in  New  England  at  the  end  of  the 
chapter. 


THE  BOOK  OF  DISCIPLINE  49 

College  till  his  M.A.  degree  (1595),  but,  being  of  the 
same  county  as  his  contemporary,  Joseph  Hall — who 
was  preferred  to  him — could  not  be  a  Fellow,  was  not 
only  recommended  by  Chaderton  to  a  tutorship  in 
Guernsey  and  a  lectureship  at  Chatham,  but  was  by  the 
same  influence  elected  one  of  the  first  Fellows  at  Sidney. 
This,  however,  was  nearly  proving  fatal  to  him,  for  he 
was  all  but  drowned  in  Harston  Millpool  on  his  way 
from  London  to  Cambridge.  He  experienced  the  usual 
difficulties  of  nonconforming  divines,  but  he  survived  them 
all,  and  managed  to  write  nearly  thirty  treatises  or 
pamphlets  in  support  of  the  Puritan  position  before  his 
death  at  Chelsea  in  1618.  He  was  principally  known 
as  the  supporter  of  the  'congregational'  theory — the 
liberty  of  each  congregation  to  regulate  church-mem- 
bership and  ceremonies.  Personally  he  was  very 
attractive,  and  is  described  by  his  contemporary.  Hall, 
as  '  very  strong  and  eager  in  argument,  hearty  in  friend- 
ship, regardless  of  the  world,  a  despiser  of  compliment, 
a  lover  of  reality."* 

That  Chaderton,  in  spite  of  general  conformity,  was 
in  hearty  sympathy  with  the  most  advanced  Puritans  is 
also  shown  by  the  fact  that  his  name  is  found  among 
those  who  in  1586  declared  their  approbation  of  the 
Book  of  Discipline^  originally  printed  in  Latin  at 
Geneva  in  1574.  It  had  since  been  revised  and  trans- 
lated into  English.  This  translation  was  printed  by 
the  Cambridge  Press  in  1584,  with  a  preface  by  Cart- 
wright,  but  was  seized  by  order  of  Archbishop  Whitgiffc, 
and  the  whole  impression  was  burnt.  It  was  not  printed 
again  till  1644,  from  a  single  copy  found  among  Cart- 
wright's  books  at  his  death  (1603).     But  in  spite  of 

4 


50  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

these  precautions  its  substance  was  still  well  known,  and 
a  declaration  in  its  favour  was  signed  in  158()  by  more 
that  500  beneficed  clergymen  (NeaPs  Puritans^  vol.  i., 
pp.  301,  324,  816).  In  1591  again  Chaderton  joined 
Good,  Whitaker,  and  Barwell  in  petitioning  the  Lord 
Treasurer  '  to  be  favourable  to  the  true  and  peaceable 
preachers  of  the  Gospel,"*  and  in  1595  signed  a  letter  to 
Cecil  denouncing  the  doctrines  of  Baro  as  '  ropish,' 
though  they  were  merely  opposed  to  the  extreme 
Calvinistic  doctrines  as  to  predestination  (Neal,  Puritans, 
vol.  i.,  p.  389).  In  January,  1604,  with  Reynolds, 
Sparks,  and  Knewstubs,  he  was  selected  to  represent 
the  Puritans  at  the  Hampton  Court  Conference.  The 
Puritan  deputies  wei*e  not  thought  to  have  shown  much 
courage  or  address  in  that  business.  But  Chaderton 
does  not  seem  to  have  lost  the  confidence  of  his  party. 
The  College  continued  to  increase,  and  to  be  filled  as  a 
rule  with  the  sort  of  men  for  whom  the  founder  had 
designed  it.  Sir  Walter  seems  to  have  had  special  sym- 
pathy with  the  feelings  which  two  yeare  after  the  founda- 
tion of  the  College  found  expression  in  the  Puritan 
petition  to  Parliament,  complaining  of  the  absence  of 
learned  ministers  and  such  as  were  able  to  preach : 

'  Whereas  the  Scriptures  say  that  ministers  of  the  Gospel 
should  be  such  as  are  able  to  teach  sound  doctrine  and 
convince  gainsayers,  yet  the  bishops  have  made  priests  of 
the  basest  of  the  people,  not  only  for  their  occupations  and 
trades  whence  they  have  taken  them,  as  shoemakers,  barbers, 
taylors,  water-bearers,  shepherds,  and  horse-keepers,  but  also 
for  their  want  of  good  learning  and  honesty.' 

He  had  been  the  member  of  the  Privy  Council  to  whom 
complaints   were    naturally    addressed    by   prosecuted 


ST.  NICHOLAS^  HOSTEL  51 

ministers,  and  there  are  several  instances  of  his  joining 
other  members  of  the  Council  in  attempting  to  shield 
them  from  episcopal  severities.  Chaderton,  therefore, 
had  so  administered  the  new  foundation  as  to  train  up 
the  kind  of  ministers  whose  learning  Sir  Walter 
believed  would  prevent  the  difficulties  produced  by 
intemperate  and  uninstructed  zeal,  while  it  would 
spread  and  defend  the  more  rational  and  fundamental 
truths  of  Calvinism. 

It  was  not  only  ministers,  however,  or  men  of  one 
view  in  politics  and  religion,  that  were  produced  by 
Chaderton.  He  seems  not  long  after  moving  into 
College  to  have  found  the  'Master's  lodgings'*  incon- 
venient, and  he  therefore  purchased  a  house  on  the  site 
of  what  had  once  been  the  Hostel  of  St.  Nicolas,  on  the 
east  side  of  Preachers'*  Street,  between  Emmanuel  and 
Christ's.  It  was  one  of  the  many  hostels  which  either 
disappeared  on  the  rise  of  Colleges  or  were  absorbed  by 
them,  and  Fuller  tells  us  that  in  its  hall  were  given  the 
first  Greek  lectures  delivered  in  Cambridge.  The 
College  had  acquired  it  in  1585,  but  in  1595  conveyed 
it  to  two  persons  who  immediately  afterwards  conveyed 
it  to  Chaderton,  who  would  not  have  been  legally  able 
to  purchase  it  direct  from  the  College.*    He  reconveyed 

*  This  house  was  sold  by  Queens'  College  to  Jo.  Mere  for  /40, 
May  I,  1568;  by  him  to  R.  Standish,  LL.D.,  for  ^43,  July  31, 
1549 ;  by  him  to  Adrian  Scroop  and  Simon  Watson  for  /70, 
November  6,  1558,  who  alienated  it  again  to  Emmanuel  College  for 
/150,  March  27,  1585  (of  which  sum  Sir  T.  Kellegrew  gave  /140). 
The  College  again  sold  it  to  Nicole  and  Bradshawe  for  /200, 
December  2,  1595,  who  conveyed  it  to  Dr.  Chaderton  on  the  nth 
of  the  same  month,  and  he  gave  it  back  to  the  College  by  deed 
March  31,  1603. 

4—2 


52  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

it  to  the  College  in  1603,  but  seems  to  have  treated  it 
all  along  as  a  kind  of  dependeiwe  of  Emmanuel,  in 
which  there  were  chambers  for  students.  His  biographer 
says  that  the  two  brothers  Rich  were  there.  The  elder, 
Robert,  was  afterwards  the  Earl  of  Warwick  who  took 
a  prominent  part  in  the  Civil  War  on  the  Parliamentary 
side.  He  seems  to  have  been  consistent  throughout.* 
But  the  younger  brother  was  the  splendid  but  unfortu- 
nate Earl  of  Holland,  whose  tortuous  policy  lost  him 
the  favour  of  the  King,  and  brought  him  to  the  block 
at  the  hands  of  the  Parliament.  Both  brothers  entered 
in  1603,  and  both  took  an  active  part  in  American 
colonization,  while  Holland  was  also  for  some  years 
Chancellor  of  the  University.  In  the  same  house  was 
also  John  Finch,  afterwards  Lord  Finch  of  Fordwich 
and  Lord  Keeper,  who  entered  in  1596.  He  was  the 
Speaker  forcibly  held  down  in  his  chair  on  a  memorable 
occasion,  who  as  a  judge  also  took  a  leading  part  in 
the  trial  of  Hampden  and  in  declaring  the  legality  of 
ship-money,  and  only  escaped  impeachment  by  the 
Long  Parliament  by  flight  to  Holland.  He  died  in 
1660  without  an  heir.  Thus  the  College  could  count 
among  its  sons  men  who  took  part  on  both  sides  of  the 
great  political  controversy  of  the  seventeenth  century. 

Nevertheless,  the  prevailing  tone  of  the  place  was 
throughout  Chaderton's  mastership  distinctly  that  of 
advanced  Puritanism.  It  was,  in  fact,  too  much  so  for 
the  Fellows  existing  in  1622,  who  thought  that  they 
were  thereby  under  the  frown  of  the  Court.  This  was 
particularly  distasteful  to  them,  because  their  object  at 
this  time  was  to  be  relieved  from  two  disadvantages 
*  His  son,  Lord  Rich,  entered  the  College  in  1626. 


CHADERTON'S  RESIGNATION  53 

under  which  they  lay  by  the  statutes — the  obligation  of 
residence,  and  the  necessity  of  vacating  their  Fellowships 
when  at  the  standing  for  D.D.,  whether  they  had 
obtained  preferment  or  not.  Their  only  hope  of 
getting  rid  of  these  obligations  was  by  royal  injunction. 
Chaderton,  however,  was  always  resolutely  opposed  to  this 
relief,  asserting  that  it  was  of  the  very  essence  of  the  plan 
and  purpose  of  the  founder  that  men  should  not  reside 
permanently  in  College,  but  should  go  into  the  service 
of  the  Church  through  the  country.  But  even  if  he  had 
thought  otherwise,  the  Fellows  believed  that  his  ecclesi- 
astical views  would  not  help  them  with  the  Court,  and 
that  he  had  outlived  such  influence  as  he  once  pos- 
sessed. The  need  of  more  Court  favour,  and  of  some- 
thing to  counteract  their  character  for  *  singularity ,"*  is 
believed  to  have  been  impressed  on  the  minds  of  the 
Fellows  during  the  Kings's  visit  of  1615.  They  now 
thought  that  in  John  Preston,  of  Queens',  they  had  a 
man  who,  while  enjoying  the  confidence  of  the  Puritans? 
and  having  an  orthodox  belief  in  Calvinism,  yet  had 
that  influence  in  high  quarters  which  they  desired. 
Distantly  connected  by  marriage  with  Buckingham,  who 
desired  to  conciliate  the  Puritan  party,  he  had  by  the 
Duke's  influence  been  named  chaplain  to  Prince  Charles 
in  1620,  and  in  February,  1622,  had  been  appointed 
Preacher  at  Lincoln's  Inn.  As  Tutor  of  Queens'  he  had 
filled  the  College,  and  whenever  he  preached  there  was 
a  crowded  audience  ;  and  though  his  sermons  had  on 
more  than  one  occasion  brought  him  into  some  trouble, 
his  'politic'  character  had  saved  him  from  any  bad 
eff*ects.  The  intrigue  in  his  favour  was  conducted  with 
great  secrecy,  if,  indeed,  there  was  an  intrigue.     Dilling- 


54  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

ham,  the  biographer  of  Chaderton,  represents  his  resig- 
nation as  spontaneous,  and  as  prompted  by  his  con- 
sciousness of  failing  powers  and  health,  as  he  was  now 
eighty-seven.  But  as  he  lived  till  November,  1640,  and 
almost  the  whole  time  in  vigorous  health,  this  does  not 
seem  a  sufficient  cause.  Nor  was  it  expected.  Bedell, 
writing  from  Bury  on  November  25,  1622,  says  : 

'  The  news  of  Dr.  Chaderton  s  resigning  and  the  election 
of  Mr.  Preston  to  the  Mastership  of  Emmanuel  was  alto- 
gether unexpected  in  these  parts  :  whereof  I  doubt  not 
there  were  secret  motives  and  perhaps  conditions  more 
than  the  world  knowes  of.* 

The  whole  affair,  in  fact,  had  been  conducted  with 
unusual  secrecy.  Chaderton  resigned  on  September  25, 
and  as  all  the  existing  Fellows  (11)  were  in  residence,  it 
was  decided  that  it  was  unnecessary  to  put  upon  the 
chapel  door  the  statutory  notice  of  the  vacancy.  On 
October  2  Preston  was  elected,  the  College  doors  being 
locked  whilst  the  election  took  place.*     One  motive  for 

*  Heywood  and  Wright  [Transactions,  vol.  ii.,  p.  312)  print  a  letter 
from  Mede  to  Sir  M.  Stutville  : 

•  Christ's  College, 

•  October  5,  1622. 

'  On  Wednesday  last,  in  the  forenoon,  Mr.  Preston  was  chosen 
Master  of  Emmanuel,  it  being  the  seventh  day  after  the  vacatio 
agnita,  by  the  resignation  of  the  old  Doctor.  Yet  so  secretly  did 
they  carry  their  business  that  not  any  of  the  town — no,  nor  any 
scholars  of  their  own  College — did  so  much  as  suspect  any  vacation 
or  election  till  all  was  done  and  finished.  Dr.  Travers  himself, 
whom  some  might  suppose  likely  to  hear  of  such  a  matter,  heard 
not  the  least  jot  till  all  was  past,  notwithstanding  all  the  acquaint- 
ances and  relations  he  left  behind  him.  .  .  .  You  will  perhaps,  as 
some  others,  wonder  how  this  business  could  be  kept  close,  since 
the  vacatio  was  to  be  published  by  a  schedule  set  up  till  the  election ; 
but  this  circumstance  is  requisite  only  if  any  of  the  Fellows  be 


CHADERTON'S  RESIGNATION  55 

this  secrecy  was  said  to  be  the  fear  of  a  royal  mandate 
to  elect  Dr.  Travers,  who,  since  his  Fellowship  had 
lapsed,  had  been  living  at  Christ's  College,  and  whom 
for  some  reason  the  Fellows  did  not  wish  to  have.  But 
in  spite  of  Dillingham's  assertion,  there  seems  no  doubt 
that  great  pressure  was  put  upon  Chaderton  to  resign  ; 
that  he  did  it  with  reluctance,  against  the  wish  of  his 
friends  and  wife  (who  lived  till  1631) ;  and  without 
having  any  large  private  resources  to  fall  back  upon. 
This  last  difficulty  was  got  over,  according  to  Ball,  by 
a  letter  to  Chaderton  from  the  Duke  of  Buckingham 
(September  20,  1622),  in  which,  after  assuring  him  that 
the  King  approved  of  Preston  as  his  successor,  he  adds  : 
'  And  for  that  point  of  supply  of  maintenance  I  shall 
(as  I  promised)  take  care  for  to  procure  it,  when  fit 
occasion  shall  be  offered.'  It  does  not  appear,  however, 
that  Chaderton  ever  received  a  pension,  though  Cecil 
offered  him  the  bishopric  of  Chester,  and  perhaps  other 
preferments.  But  he  preferred  a  retired  life,  devoted 
to  reading  and  study,  varied  by  planting,  grafting,  and 
other  botanical  experiments,  in  which  he  took  much 
delight.  Indeed,  Dillingham  asserts  that,  though  Pres- 
ton may  possibly  have  obtained  Buckingham's  letter, 
Chaderton  never  received  it,  and  that  '  no  promise  was 
made  in  it  about  any  allowance  being  made  for  Chader- 
ton's  support,  no  assurance  given,  expected  or  gisked 
for,  nay,  not  so  much  as  known  of  by  the  venerable 
man.'  -  But,  as  Mr.  Mullinger  observes  (p.   570),  '  it 

absent,  thereby  to  signify  the  vacation  to  them, — to  prevent  which 
they  made  choice  of  a  time  when  all  the  Fellows  were  at  home,  to 
call  them  together,  and  make  known  the  resignation  to  all  present 
at  once. ' 


56  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

seems  difficult  to  suppose  that  either  Preston  or  his 
biographer  could  have  concocted  such  a  letter,**  and  it 
appears  likely  that  the  offer  of  the  bishopric  and  other 
preferments,  of  which  Dillingham  speaks,  was  practically 
a  fulfilment  of  the  promise.  When  they  were  declined, 
the  Court  no  doubt  felt  no  farther  obligation,  and 
Chaderton  spent  the  remaining  eighteen  years  of  his 
life  in  retirement,  though  he  seems  always  to  have  taken 
an  active  interest  in  the  affairs  of  the  College,  especially 
in  the  management  of  its  estates.  He  died  on  No- 
vember 18,  1640,  and  was  buried  in  the  old  chapel, 
from  which  his  body  was  afterwards  transferred  to  the 
new  chapel. 

The  end  of  his  mastership  is  a  natural  close  of  the 
first  chapter  in  the  College  history.  With  his  disap- 
pearance a  change  in  its  atmosphere  soon  began  to 
make  itself  evident. 


Professor  Frank lyn  B.  Dexter,  of  Yale,  in  a  paper 
read  before  the  Massachusetts  Historical  Society  (Feb- 
ruary, 1 880)  on  '  The  influence  of  the  English  Universities 
in  the  Development  of  New  England,'  enumerates  those 
who  came  from  Oxford  and  Cambridge.  The  largest 
contingent  (21)  is  furnished  by  Emmanuel. 


William  Blaxton,  M.A. 

Year  of  Entry 
in  College. 
1614 

Zachariah  Symmes,  M.A. 

1617 

John  Cotton,  B.D.,  Fellow 

1617 

Daniel  Maude,  M.A.... 

1603 

William  Leverish,  M.A. 

1622 

Nathaniel  Ward,  M.A. 

1596 

NEW  ENGLAND  SEITLERS 


57 


Year  of  Entry 
in  College. 

Thomas  Hooker,  M. A.,  Fellow        ...     1596 

Simon  Broadstreet,  M.A. 

..      1617 

Thomas  James,  M.A. 

..      l6ll 

William  Walton,  M.A. 

..     1617 

Nathaniel  Rogers,  M.A. 

..     1614 

Thomas  Shepherd,  M.A. 

...     1619 

John  Ward,  M.A 

..     1596 

R.  Sultinstall 

..     1627 

John  Harvard,  M.A.  .. 

..     1628 

E.  Brown  (?) 

..     1628 

Samuel  Stone,  M.A.  .. 

..     1620 

T.  Waterhouse,  B.A. .. 

..     1622 

J.  Oxenbridge 

...     1626 

Giles  Firmin 

...     1629 

John  Sherman 

..     1639 

On  August  25,  1904,  a  brass  tablet  to  be  placed  in 
the  chapel,  which  had  been  subscribed  for  at  Harvard, 
Cambridge,  U.S.A.,  was  presented  by  representatives 
from  that  University.   It  bears  the  following  inscription : 

VERITAS  I   CHRISTO      ET      ECCLESIiE   |   IN     MEMORY      OF  |   JOHN 
HARVARD      A.M.    |   A      MEMBER      OF     EMMANUEL     COLLEGE   |   WHO 
EMIGRATED     TO   |   MASSACHUSETTS     BAY   |   AND    THERE    DYING   | 
IN    1638    I    BEQUEATHED    TO     A     COLLEGE   |   NEWLY    ESTABLISHED 
I   BY     THE     GENERAL     COURT   |    HIS     LIBRARY   |   AND     ONE    HALF 
OF      HIS      ESTATE   [   WHEREFORE    |   HIS      NAME      IS     BORNE     BY   | 
HARVARD      COLLEGE  |   THAT      ELDEST  |   OF      THE      SEMINARIES    | 
WHICH     ADVANCE     LEARNING  |   AND     PERPETUATE     IT   |  TO     POS- 
TERITY  I  THROUGHOUT     AMERICA   |   THIS     TABLET     ERECTED     BY 
HARVARD     I     MEN      RECORDS      THEIR      GRATITUDE      TO     |     THEIR 
FOUNDER  IN    THE    COLLEGE  WHICH   |    FOSTERED    HIS    BENEFICENT 
SPIRIT   I 


CHAPTER  IV 

THE  MASTERSHIPS  OF  JOHN  PRESTON  (1622-1628) 
AND  WILLIAM  SANDCROFT  (1628-1637) 

The  mastership  of  John  Preston  does  not  appear  to 
have  answered  the  expectation  of  the  Fellows.  The 
obligation  of  continual  residence,  which  prevented  them 
from  making  provision  for  their  future  by  chaplaincies 
or  tutorships,  was  not  relaxed  ;  nor  was  anything  done 
to  relieve  them  from  the  effects  of  the  de  mora  statute, 
so  as  to  allow  them  to  keep  their  Fellowships  until  pre- 
sented to  a  College  living.  Nor  in  other  ways  did  he 
make  his  mark  in  the  College.  Ball,  who  admires  him 
greatly,  can  find  nothing  to  record  of  his  administration 
except  that 

'he  observed  that  the  Scholars  kept  Acts  but  seldome, 
and  accordingly  when  they  came  into  it  performed  it  but 
meanly ;  he  therefore  advised  with  the  fellows  in  it,  and 
after  many  consultations  it  was  resolved  that  the  number 
of  Acts  should  in  a  manner  be  doubled,  of  those  under 
Masters  of  Arts,  which  was  a  great  advancement  to  learn- 
ing of  all  sorts  in  the  Colledge/ 

But,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  Preston  seems  to  have  been 
much  absent  from  the  College  under  various  pretexts — 
duty  at  Court,  as  preacher  at  Lincoln's  Inn,  and  on  the 

68 


PRESTON'S  MASTERSHIP  59 

plea  of  being  wanted  in  London  to  watch  over  the 
interests  of  the  society,  which  was  engaged  in  a  lawsuit 
with  a  Mr.  Ewins  for  the  advowson  of  a  living.  The 
writer  in  the  Dictionary  of  National  Biografhy  says  that 
this  last  employment  was  interpreted  as  being  a  violenta 
detentio  within  the  meaning  of  the  statute  De  residentia 
magistri  (cap.  2).  The  interpretation  as  recorded  in 
the  order-book,  however,  says  nothing  of  this  business, 
but  rests  solely  on  '  the  service  of  the  King  and  Prince.' 
It  will  be  well  to  give  this  order  as  it  appears  in  the 
original  with  autograph  signatures,  especially  as  it  is 
one  of  the  only  two  College  orders  signed  by  Preston : 

'Anno  Domini  l623,  Martii  IP. 

'  Whereas  in  the  statute  Cap.  2  de  Residentia  Magistri, 
there  is  this  clause — nisi  violenta  detentione  impeditus 
fuerit.  Our  Master  before  his  admission  Octob.  S,  l622, 
and  before  he  took  his  oath,  desired  an  interpretation  of 
these  words  :  all  the  fellows  (being  eleven  in  number)  did 
with  one  consent  and  assent  make  this  interpretation,  that 
they  were  to  be  understood  as  well  of  a  morall  as  a  natural 
violence,  and  that  the  service  of  the  Kinge  and  Prince  (to 
whom  he  was  then  a  sworne  servant)  was  to  be  esteemed 
as  a  morall  violence.  This  eight  of  us  (who  are  all  that 
are  nowe  left  in  the  Colledge  of  those  eleven)  do  witness 
and  testify  under  our  hands. 

John  Stoughton. 

Jo.  DoD. 

JoHEs  Gamons. 

Sa.  Hildersham. 

J.  Yates. 

Ric.  Hunt. 

Tho.  Hanscombe. 

Na.  Fowle, 


60  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

'The  same  interpretation  we  all  who  are  now  actuall 
master  and  fellowes  doe  renew  and  confirme  under  our 
hands. 

John  Preston. 

John  Stoughton. 

John  Dod. 

John  Gamons. 

Sa.  Hildersham. 

J.  Yates. 

Richard  Hunt. 

Tho.  Hanscombe. 

Na.  Fowle. 

Anth.  Tuckney. 

Walter  Foster.* 

Preston,  being  thus  authorized  to  be  absent  beyond 
the  statutable  time,  seems  to  have  taken  full  advantage 
of  the  privilege.  Only  four  *  admonitions '  are  signed 
by  him — one  undated,  and  three  on  the  same  day 
(May  24,  1627),  all  for  the  same  offence :  '  notorious 
negligence  at  prayers  in  the  Chapel.'  Only  one  College 
order,  besides  the  above,  is  signed  by  him — namely,  one 
of  August  15,  1625,  for  the  breaking  up  of  the  College 
till  October  17,  upon  '  the  contagion  which  is  at  this 
time  in  the  parish  and  the  fear  of  the  increase  thereof.' 
Business  as  to  the  College  estates  he  seems  often  to 
have  committed  to  Chaderton,  who  was,  it  appears, 
still  living  in  his  house  at  St.  Nicolas'  Hostel  as 
tenant  of  the  College.  He  cared  most  for  preaching, 
and  obtained,  after  a  severe  contest,  a  lectureship  at 
Trinity  Church,  worth  £50 — collected,  it  seems,  by  six- 
penny, contributions  among  the  congregation — which, 
as  having  no  '  cure  of  souls,'  he  could  hold  with  the 


PRESTON'S  MASTERSHIP  61 

mastership.  But  he  was  also  much  with  the  Court, 
and  his  high  favour  with  Buckingham  gave  the  Puritan 
party  hopes  of  better  treatment  at  the  hands  of  the 
King,  while  the  '  prelatical  **  party  hoped  to  win  him 
by  the  offer  of  bishoprics  or  other  preferment.  His 
importance  was  believed  to  be  still  greater  as  James 
neared  his  end,  because  it  was  evident  that  under  the 
new  reign  Buckingham  would  be  all-powerful.  Preston 
was  at  Theobalds  when  the  King  died  (March  27, 1625), 
and  went  to  London  with  Charles  for  his  proclamation. 
There  he  maintained  for  some  time  his  hold  on  Buck- 
ingham, who  is  said  to  have  even  proposed  him  to  the 
King  as  Lord  Keeper,  of  which  office  Bishop  Williams 
was  now  deprived.  Sir  Thomas  Coventry,  however,  was 
appointed,  who  had  acted  as  counsel  for  the  College  in 
their  lawsuit,  and  now  determined  it  in  their  favour. 
This  much  good  the  College  might  in  part  attribute  to 
the  influence  of  their  Master.  It  soon  became  apparent, 
however,  that  his  power  over  Buckingham  was  melting 
away.  The  Duke  disappointed  the  hopes  of  the 
Puritans,  and  began  giving  plain  indications  of  sym- 
pathy with  the  '  prelatists,'  greatly,  no  doubt,  under 
the  influence  of  King  Charles.  Preston  accordingly 
lost  faith  in  him,  and  was  incautious  enough  to  express 
this  feeling  in  a  letter  'to  a  gentleman  of  Northampton,' 
which  letter  by  some  accident  was  dropped  by  its 
bearer  near  Temple  Bar,  and  its  contents  made  known 
to  the  Duke,  who  soon  made  it  manifest  that  Preston 
was  no  longer  in  his  good  graces.  The  Fellows  there- 
fore— or  a  majority  of  them — determined  to  act  for 
themselves,  and  petition  the  Crown  directly  for  a  dis- 
pensation from  the  statute. 


62  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

An  attempt  had  been  already  made  in  1595,  when 
Charles  Chad  wick,  the  Senior  Fellow,  claimed  to  hold  his 
Fellowship  on  the  ground  that  the  supplementary  statute 
was  not  of  equal  validity  with  the  rest.  The  question  was 
referred  to  the  Vice-Chancellor  (Dr.  Goade),  and  was 
formally  tried  by  him,  with  John  Cowel,  LL.D.,  acting 
as  assessor,  on  November  21.  His  decision,  drawn  up  by 
John  Smith,  public  notary,  is  extant.  It  was  decisively 
in  favour  of  the  statute.  Chadwick  appears  at  the  time 
to  have  retaliated  upon  Chaderton  by  asserting  that  he 
had  forfeited  the  mastership  by  not  taking  his  Doctor's 
degree.  But  that  point,  too,  was  given  in  Chaderton's 
favour  on  the  production  of  a  written  dispensation  from 
Mildmay.  This  decree  of  the  Vice-Chancellor  settled 
the  matter.  Chadwick  was  obliged  to  vacate  his  Fellow- 
ship and  to  seek  Church  preferment,  which  he  obtained 
at  Woodham  Ferrers  in  Essex,  and,  however  discon- 
tented, the  Fellows  made  no  more  attempt  to  get  the 
statute  altered  or  more  favourably  interpreted  till  1627, 
when  the  following  petition  was  sent  up  to  the  King : 

'To  THE  King's  most  excellent  Majesty. 

'  The  Humble  petition  of  the  Fellowes  of  Emmanuel 
College  in  Cambridge  shewith 

'  That  whereas  our  last  supposed  statute  of  leaving 
our  places  at  Doctor's  time,  or  within  a  yeare  after,  if  we 
take  our  degree,  hath  been  and  is  a  grievance  to  our 
societie,  the  validitie  of  which  Statute  may  justlie  be 
questioned,  as  being  neither  sealed,  nor  having  witnesses, 
nor  being  delivered  as  the  rest  of  the  statutes  were,  nor 
yet  having  taken  effect  by  forcing  any  to  forsake  their 
places  at  that  time  :  Or,  in  case  it  should  be  graunted  to 


PRESTON^S  MASTERSHIP  63 

be  a  statute,  being  very  hard,  we  being  thereby  exposed 
to  many  and  great  inconveniences,  as  being  destitute  of 
other  meanes  when  we  shall  be  soe  cast  out,  and  hindered 
for  the  present  approveing  our  service  to  any,  by  reason  of 
our  continuance  strictly  required  by  statute,  and  whereas 
no  inconvenience  is  like  to  redound  either  to  the  govern- 
ment or  estate  of  the  Colledge  by  libertye  of  continuance, 
as  appeareth  by  all  other  Colledges  where  they  have  the 
like  priviledge,  and  more  particularlye  in  Sidney  Sussex 
Colledge,  where  the  like  statute  hath  been  abrogated. 

'  That  your  Majestye  would  bee  pleased  to  graunte  a 
reference  of  this  our  grievance  to  the  Heads  of  Colledges, 
or  to  such  of  them  as  your  Majesty  should  be  pleased  to 
assign,  to  consider  whether  or  noe  it  bee  a  statute  of  equal 
validitie  with  the  other  ;  and  if  soe,  whether  a  qualification 
bee  not  requisite  for  grauntinge  libertie  to  us  to  enjoy  our 
places,  till  wee  can  bee  competently  provided  for ;  and 
according  as  in  duty  bounde  wee  ever  pray  for  your 
Majestye's  long,  happy,  and  prosperous  reign/ 

A  reference  to  the  Vice-Chancellor  and  Heads  was  at 
once  granted.  Opposition  came  from  two  quarters: 
first  from  Sir  Henry  Mildmay,  the  founder's  grandson, 
and  secondly  from  Chaderton.  The  former  offered  as 
a  compromise  to  secure  to  the  College  the  advowson  of 
six  livings  of  not  less  than  ^^100  a  year  value,  in  order 
to  provide  for  such  Fellows  as  were  thus  compelled  to 
vacate.  Chaderton  wrote  a  strong  paper,  dated  April  14, 
1627,  of  reasons  against  the  charge  to  be  submitted  to 
the  Vice-Chancellor  and  Heads.  His  objections  were 
grounded  on  the  violation  proposed  to  be  done  to  the 
wishes  of  the  dead  ;  on  the  discouragement  thus  offered 
to  future  founders  and  benefactors ;  on  the  fact  that 


64  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

the  College  already  had  enough  livings  for  the  vacating 
Fellows ;  on  the  fact  that  succession  to  Fellowships  was 
thus  more  rapid  and  the  number  of  learned  ministers  sent 
out  larger,  while  '  the  unprofitable  stay  of  men  in  College 
was  prevented**;  on  the  fact  that  in  other  Colleges  the 
tenure  of  Fellowships  was  limited  ;  and,  lastly,  that  the 
founder  had  declared  that  '  he  would  rather  not  have 
founded  the  College  than  have  omitted  this  statute/ 

The  Vice-Chancellor  and  Heads  at  first  drew  up  an 
answer  in  the  sense  of  Chaderton'^s  protest,  strongly 
advising  against  the  abrogation  of  the  statute.  But 
on  farther  consideration — perhaps  on  a  hint  from 
Buckingham — they  sent  up  a  more  guarded  answer, 
affirming,  indeed,  the  validity  of  the  statute,  but  at  the 
same  time  suggesting  that  the  change  in  the  circum- 
stances of  the  times  might  make  its  suspension  advisable. 
The  whole  business  was  rapidly  concluded.  Chaderton"*s 
protest  is  dated  April  14,  and  on  May  5  a  dispensation 
was  issued  from  the  Court  at  Westminster.  It  is 
grounded  on  the  report  of  the  V ice-Chancellor  and 
Heads : 

'  You  after  due  examination  of  the  business  have  under 
your  hands  and  seals  given  us  to  understand  that  concern- 
ing the  validity  of  the  statute  you  are  fully  persuaded 
of  the  strength  thereof,  but  as  touching  the  convenience 
of  the  said  statute,  however  the  same  was  providently 
ordeyned  at  the  time,  when  there  was  scarcity  of  sufficient 
preachers  to  furnish  the  Church  abroad,  yet  because  that 
reason  now  ceaseth  and  the  Church  is  now  replenished 
with  many  able  men,  you  conceive  a  qualification  neither 
prejudicial  to  the  estate  of  the  Church  in  generall  nor  the 
government  of  this  particular  society.' 


PRESTON'S  MASTERSHIP  65 

The  King  then  goes  on  to  ordain  that  the  statute  be 
wholly  suspended,  giving  five  reasons  :  (1)  Because  those 
who  have  taken  Holy  Orders  (which  calling  they  may 
never  forsake  or  exchange)  are  compelled  either,  instead 
of  being  labourers,  to  stand  idle  in  the  vineyard,  or,  as 
'  lecturers,"'  to  seek  their  livelihood  from  the  benevolence 
and  favour  of  the  people ;  (2)  because  to  the  great  dis- 
paragement of  their  persons  and  degrees  they  are  com- 
pelled to  become  curates  and  mercenaries  under  others ; 
(3)  because  the  statute  enforcing  residence  prevents 
them,  like  other  clergymen,  from  securing  their  positions 
by  services  abroad ;  (4)  because  other  Colleges  allow 
their  clerical  Fellows  to  remain  till  they  get  a  living, 
and  a  far  less  strict  statute  in  Sidney  Sussex  (allowing 
seven  years'  residence  after  Doctor's  standing)  had  been 
rescinded ;  (5)  because  even  in  Emmanuel  dispensations 
had  been  already  obtained,  particularly  by  Dr.  Bran- 
thwaite.  Towards  the  end  of  the  royal  injunction, 
however,  a  proviso  is  made  that,  if  Sir  H.  Mildmay 
fulfilled  his  promise  of  giving  the  College  five  or  six 
advowsons  worth  a  hundred  a  year  within  six  years  of 
the  date  of  the  dispensation,  the  dispensation  is  to  be 
revoked. 

On  December  22,  1640,  a  committee  was  appointed 
to  investigate  the  abuses  of  the  University,  and  in 
virtue  of  their  report  the  King's  dispensation  was 
revoked  on  March  22,  1641.  This  declaration  of  the 
Parliament  was,  however,  either  declared  or  regarded 
as  invalid  at  the  Restoration.  The  dispensation  of 
1627,  therefore,  after  1660,  again  ruled  the  tenure  of 
Fellowships  of  those  in  Orders,  while  laymen  vacated 
theirs  when  they  came  to  be  one  of  the  four  seniors, 

5 


66  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

according  to  the  statute  of  the  founder.  Practically, 
however,  men  henceforth  held  their  Fellowships  till  they 
got  a  College  living.  This  state  of  things  was  recognised 
by  the  Commissioners  (1856-1861).  In  the  statutes  con- 
firmed by  the  Queen  in  Council  on  June  26  of  the  latter 
year,  four  Fellows  had  to  be  in  Orders ;  but  if  there  were 
no  Fellows  willing  to  take  Orders  elections  were  to  be 
made  outside.  Clergymen,  if  unmarried,  could  hold 
their  Fellowships  without  limit ;  a  layman  vacated  his 
at  the  end  of  ten  years,  unless  he  held  a  professorship  or 
certain  College  offices.  The  farther  alterations  made  by 
the  Commission  of  1877-1882  will  be  noticed  later  on. 

According  to  his  biographer,  Preston  was  vehemently 
opposed  to  the  relaxation  of  the  statute  in  1627,  and  he 
certainly  seems  to  have  been  on  bad  terms  with  some  of 
the  Fellows.  But  he  was  now  little  more  in  the 
College,  for  his  health  was  rapidly  failing.  He  moved 
from  place  to  place,  hoping  to  be  cured  by  country  air. 
The  winter  of  1627-28  seems  to  have  been  spent  in  a 
house  on  high  ground  at  Linton,  from  which  he  came  to 
preach  at  Cambridge  on  Sundays.  In  the  spring  he 
went  to  London,  after  having  vainly  consulted  Dr. 
Despontine,  the  Italian  doctor  settled  by  Bedell  at  Bury. 
By  the  advice  of  the  London  doctors  he  stayed  awhile 
at  Newington,  whence  he  removed  to  Hertfordshire,  and 
thence  to  his  native  county  of  Northamptonshire,  to  the 
house  of  Mr.  Dod,  the  clergyman  of  Preston.  Here  he 
was,  it  appears,  mistakenly  treated  by  an  Oxford  doctor 
(Ash worth),  and  succumbed  on  July  20,  1628,  when  not 
quite  forty  years  old.  He  had  been  a  good  deal  away 
from  the  College,  especially  in  1625,  when  there  was  an 
alarm  of  plague.     But  at  the  beginning  of  his  master- 


PRESTON^S  WILL  67 

ship  he  seemed  likely  to  be  much  more  away  still,  for  he 
was  appointed  to  go  as  chaplain  to  Sir  Arthur  Chichester 
into  Germany;  and  a  royal  mandate  was  obtained, 
dated  July  15,  1623,  for  his  Doctor'^s  degree,  that  he 
might  have  a  dignity  suitable  for  the  office  (Heywood 
and  Wright,  ii.  316).  The  embassy,  however,  did  not 
take  place,  but  in  preparation  for  his  journey  he  made 
the  will  that  was  proved  after  his  death.  The  executor 
and  residuary  legatee  was  William,  Lord  Saye  and 
Seal,  and  though  there  is  no  mention  in  it  of  a  legacy 
to  Emmanuel  College,  Preston  appears  from  a  letter  of 
Lord  Saye  and  Seal,  which  has  been  preserved,  to  have 
directed  him  to  '  bestow  the  interest  of  ,^200  upon 
Scolards  that  were  bred  upp  in  the  Colledge  (Em- 
manuel).' Lord  Saye  and  Seal  appears  after  some 
years  to  have  suspended  this  payment  when  'these 
unhappy  times  of  trouble  came.'  At  the  Restoration, 
however,  he  proposed  to  renew  the  payment,  and  to  add 
to  it  c£40  in  view  of  unpaid  interest.  In  his  will  (he 
died  in  1662)  he  directed  his  heir  to  invest  the  money  in 
land  'of  inheritance  to  the  same,  either  to  the  said 
James  or  to  the  Head,  President  and  Fellows  of  the  said 
Colledge,  their  successors  and  assigns,  at  the  discretion  of 
my  said  sonne  James.'  It  was  not  till  1668  that  the 
instructions  of  the  will  were  carried  out.  A  letter  on 
this  subject  to  Breton,  Master  of  Emmanuel,  is  dated 
May  8,  1668 : 

'Dr.  Brittaine, 

'  Mr.  Henry  Lodge,  who  was  formally  recommended 
to  y""  Colledge,  and  to  whom  I  gave  that  annual  allowance 
of  twelve  pounds  given  by  Dr.  Preston,  is  lately  dead.     I 

5—2 


68  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

shall  therefore  desire  you  to  receive  a  brother  of  his, 
Mr.  Sidney  Lodge,  into  his  place,  and  accordingly  I  shall 
pay  to  him  the  same  stipend  for  his  maintenance.  S^  I 
have  signed  and  sealed  that  deed  for  the  use  of  y"^  Colledge, 
and  it  is  left  either  with  Mr.  Nelson  or  Mr.  Finshaw,  whom 
you  know ;  both  their  chambers  are  in  Grayes  Inne. 

'S^  I  am, 

'Y>^  friend, 

*Say  and  Seal.' 

The  deed  here  mentioned  is  extant,  and  secures  to  the 
Master,  Fellows  and  Scholars  of  Emmanuel  College 
an  *  Annuity  or  Rent  Charge  of  £12,  issuing  out  of 
three  parcel  Is  of  Meadow  Ground  in  the  Parish  of 
Drayton  in  Oxfordshire."*  This  rent-charge  was  paid 
regularly  for  some  time,  but  the  land  changed  hands 
several  times,  and  it  began  to  fall  into  arrear.  In  17520 
the  College  unsuccessfully  sued  the  then  Lord  Saye  and 
Seal,  and  from  that  time  it  disappears  from  the  College 
accounts  {Emmanuel  College  Magazine,  vol.  vi.,  No.  2, 
pp.  90-95). 

The  College,  therefore,  did  not  permanently  benefit 
by  Preston's  liberality.  In  other  respects,  though  not, 
apparently,  from  much  personal  superintendence,  it 
continued  to  flourish  under  his  rule.  The  numbers  did 
not  decline.  In  two  of  the  six  years  they  were  above 
the  average  (S2  and  89),  and  among  the  entries  are 
some  interesting  names,  four  of  them  of  men  who  were 
afterwards  Masters  of  other  Colleges — W.  Spurstowe,  of 
St.  Catherine's;  Lazarus  Seaman,  of  St.  Peter's;  William 
Dell,  of  Caius  ;  Benjamin  Whichcote,  of  King's. 

William  Spurstowe  took  his  degrees  at  Emmanuel 
(B.A.  1626,  M.A.  1630),  but  was  elected  a  Fellow  of 


PRESTON'S  MASTERSHIP  69 

Catharine  Hall.  He  resigned  that  on  becoming  Rector 
of  Great  Hampden  in  Buckinghamshire.  He  was  one 
of  the  five  divines  whose  initials  helped  to  make  up  the 
name  Smectymnuus  (uu[  =  w]  +  s).  He  was  fully  in  sym- 
pathy with  the  Parliament  in  its  quarrel  with  the  King, 
and  served  as  chaplain  to  Hampden\s  Green  Coats  in 

1642.  He  took  the  Solemn  League  and  Covenant  in 

1643,  and  in  1645  was  put  into  the  mastership  of 
Catharine  Hall,  on  the  deprivation  of  Ralph  Browning 
by  the  University  Commissioners  of  the  Parliament. 
But  though  his  sermons  and  writings  were  all  of  the 
strictly  Puritan  cast,  his  after-life  is  an  example  of 
the  revulsion  against  extremes  in  politics  and  Church 
government  which  caused  the  anti-Puritan  reaction. 

In  1649  a  subscription  to  'the  Engagement'  was 
required  by  the  Parliamentary  Committee — that  is,  a 
declaration  of  allegiance  to  the  existing  government 
*  without  King  or  House  of  Lords.'  Spurstowe,  who 
had  been  employed  in  negotiations  with  Charles,  and 
strongly  objected  to  his  trial,  was  one  of  those  Masters 
who  declined  to  make  the  declaration,  and  ipso  facto 
vacated  their  places  on  March  23,  1650  (Hey  wood  and 
Wright,  ii.,  530).  At  the  Restoration,  again,  he  was 
made  a  chaplain  to  Charles  H.,  and  preached  once  at 
Court,  yet  he  was  not  prepared  to  conform  to  the  Act  of 
Uniformity,  and  accordingly  vacated  his  vicarage  of 
Hackney  on  St.  Bartholomew's  Day  (August  24,  1662). 

Lazarus  Seaman  (B.A.  1627,  M.A.  1631),  after 
teaching  for  a  time  in  a  school,  was  chosen  lecturer  at 
St.  Martin's,  Ludgate,  and  was  chaplain  to  the  Earl  of 
Northumberland,  and  in  1642  was  presented  to  All 
Hallows',  Broad  Street.     Like  Spurstowe,  he  was  one  of 


70  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

the  Westminster  Assembly  of  Divines,  and  one  of  the 
Presbyterians  deputed  to  treat  with  Charles.  In  1644 
he  was  put  into  the  mastership  of  Peterhouse,  At 
the  Restoration  he  was  turned  out  of  the  mastership, 
but  retained  All  Hallows'*  till  the  Act  of' Uniformity  in 
1662.  He  was  a  Presbyterian,  strongly  opposed  to 
'  separate  congregations,**  and  had  also  been  against  the 
King's  trial.  Yet  Cromwell  respected  him,  and  ap- 
pointed him  a  Visitor  of  the  University  in  1654.  After 
his  resignation  of  All  Hallows'  he  acted  privately  as 
minister  to  a  portion  of  his  old  congregation,  and  in 
1672  built  a  chapel  in  Wood  Street.  He  was  a  man  of 
much  learning,  and  his  collection  of  5,000  books  was 
the  first  library  sold  by  auction  in  England  (1675). 
That,  and  his  prudence  and  caution,  joined  to  consider- 
able controversial  ability,  mark  him  out  as  a  typical 
product  of  the  College. 

William  Dell  (B.A.  1628,  M.A.  1631)  was  secretary 
to  Archbishop  Laud,  but  in  1645,  having  become  an 
Antinomian,  he  was  with  Fairfax  as  a  '  preacher  of  the 
army.'  He  seems  to  have  tried  to  establish  a  kind  of 
unity  by  refusing  to  recognise  all  distinction  of  sects, 
but  did  not  succeed  in  pleasing  any  party,  except, 
perhaps,  the  leaders  of  the  Independents.  He  is  said 
to  have  offered  his  religious  services  to  Charles  on  the 
morning  of  his  execution.  On  May  5,  1650,  he  was 
appointed  Master  of  Caius  in  the  place  of  the  ejected 
Dr.  Batchcroft.  He  was  very  severe  in  this  office  in 
displacing  Royalist  Fellows,  and  denouncing  not  only 
official  University  dress  and  ornaments,  but  the  value  of 
learning  generally  to  the  study  of  Scripture.  He  held 
with  the  mastership  the  living  of  Yelden  in  Bedford- 


PRESTON'S  MASTERSHIP  71 

shire.  From  the  former  he  was  ejected  in  1660  (Batch- 
croft  being  reinstated),  and  from  the  latter  in  1662 
by  the  Bartholomew  Act.  His  writing  and  doctrines, 
though  enjoying  a  certain  notoriety,  appear  not  to 
have  pleased  any  sect  except  the  Quakers ;  and  he  was 
accused  of  inconsistency  in  preaching  against  infant 
baptism,  and  yet  having  his  own  children  baptized; 
against  tithes,  and  yet  taking  <^200  a  year  from 
Yelden  ;  against  Universities,  and  yet  being  Head  of  a 
College.  Yet  he  carried  out  one  of  his  doctrines  by 
securing  that  his  body  should  be  buried  in  unconse- 
crated  ground.  He  probably  would  have  justified 
himself  on  all  these  heads,  but  his  teaching  would  not 
have  been  in  harmony  with  the  views  current  in  his  old 
College. 

Of  Benjamin  Whichcote,  who  entered  in  the  later 
years  of  Preston's  mastership,  I  shall  speak  hereafter. 

Besides  these  divines,  there  entered  in  1624  Henry 
PiERREPONT,  first  Marquis  of  Dorchester,  and  his  brother 
William.  They  were  the  sons  of  the  Earl  of  Kingston, 
and  Henry  (born  1606)  was  called  up  to  the  House  of 
Lords  as  Viscount  Newark  in  1641,  and  for  services  to 
the  King  was  created  Marquis  of  Dorchester  in  1645. 
After  the  war  was  over,  he  compounded  for  delinquency 
by  a  fine  of  one-tenth  of  his  estate,  and  afterwards 
devoted  himself  to  science,  especially  to  medicine  and 
law,  being  entered  at  Gray's  Inn,  and  also  becoming  a 
Fellow  of  the  College  of  Physicians.  At  the  Restoration 
he  returned  to  Court,  and  became  a  Privy  Councillor 
again.  He  seems  to  have  been  a  quarrelsome  person, 
but  really  devoted  to  science.  His  brother  William, 
who  entered   Emmanuel    with   him,  took    the  Parlia- 


72  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

mentarj  side  in  the  war,  but  was  generally  in  favour  of 
peace  and  of  making  terms  with  the  King.  He,  how- 
ever, justified  his  title  of  '  Wise  William  "*  by  keeping 
all  through  on  good  terms  with  Cromwell,  by  giving 
Richard  Cromwell  excellent  counsel,  and  yet  on  the 
Restoration  being  able  to  secure,  not  only  his  own 
safety,  but  that  of  many  others  also.  He  died  in 
1678. 

In  the  last  year  of  Preston's  mastership  John  Harvard 
entered  the  College  (April  17,  1627)  with  Middlesex  as 
his  county  (p.  57).  It  is  curious  and  touching  that  the 
name  of  a  man  who  won  no  distinction  in  life,  and  died 
at  thirty-one  of  consumption  so  far  from  us,  should  yet 
constitute  one  of  our  most  enduring  and  most  valued 
memorials : 

'  That  low  man  seeks  a  little  thing  to  do. 
Sees  it  and  does  it : 
This  high  man,  with  a  great  thing  to  pursue. 
Dies  ere  he  knows  it.* 

John  Harvard  saw  what  he  had  to  do  and  did  it,  and 
it  turned  out  to  be  a  greater  thing  than  he  could  have 
dreamed.  Leaving  England,  we  do  not  know  why — 
perhaps  in  hope  of  escaping  the  deadly  disease  which 
was  in  his  blood  (for  his  brother  Thomas  died  the  year 
he  sailed) — he,  with  his  lately-married  wife,  reached 
New  England,  and  was  admitted  a  townsman  of  Charles- 
town  on  August  6  in  1637.  On  September  14  in 
the  next  year  (1638)  he  died  of  consumption,  leaving 
one  half  of  his  estate  (^79  17s,  2d.),  with  a  library  of 
320  volumes,  for  the  College  which  at  that  time  it  was 
proposed  to  found  at  New  Town   (Cambridge).     Em- 


JOHN  HARVARD  73 

manuel  has  no  record  of  him  except  his  name  in  a 
book  of  receipts,  and  his  autograph  in  a  small  volume 
of  divinity  in  the  College  library — 

'  Only  the  actions  of  the  just 
Smell  sweet  and  blossom  in  the  dust.* 

Little  as  he  ever  thought  it,  his  name  endures  for  ever 
in  the  great  University  of  the  West,  the  beginning  of 
which  was  made  possible  by  his  liberality  and  faith. 

He  had  inherited  a  fair  property  from  his  mother, 
Katherine  Rogers,  who  married  three  times — her  first 
husband,  Robert  Harvard,  a  butcher  of  Southwark, 
having  died  of  the  plague  in  1625.  She  appears 
to  have  died  in  1635,  the  year  in  which  Harvard 
took  his  M.A.  degree.  In  Charlestown  he  ministered 
in  the  '  First  Church,'  where,  it  is  said,  he  '  preached 
and  prayed  with  tears  and  evidence  of  strong  afFection.' 
He  is  described  by  another  contemporary  as  '  a  scholar 
and  a  lover  of  learning,"*  and  by  another  as  '  a  scholar 
and  pious  in  his  life,  and  enlarged  toward  the  country 
and  the  good  of  it  in  life  and  death.""  There  is  no 
record  of  his  having  been  ordained,  but,  as  he  seems  to 
have  been  at  once  received  as  a  clergyman  on  arriving 
in  New  England,  he  had  probably  been  authorized  as  a 
preacher  in  some  way  before  leaving  home ;  and  as  he 
married  the  daughter  of  a  beneficed  clergyman,  he  had 
very  likely  received  episcopal  Orders. 

The  next  Master,  William  SANDCROFr  (1628-1637), 
entered  the  College  in  1596,  and  was  elected  Fellow  in 
1605.  He  was  of  a  Suffolk  family,  and  at  the  end  of 
his  life  had  some  cure  or  house  at  Bury.  His  Fellow- 
ship lapsed  in  1614-15,  and  Chaderton  wrote  warmly  in 


74  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

his  favour  to  the  patron  of  West  Wickam  in  Kent 
(Samuel  Lennard).  On  his  election  to  the  mastership 
in  1628,  he  was  holding  this  or  some  other  benefice,  for 
before  he  would  accept  the  mastership  he  insisted  on 
the  Fellows  making  an  interpretation  of  the  thirteenth 
statute  which  would  enable  him  to  continue  to  hold  it. 
Accordingly,  an  order  on  the  subject  appears  in  the 
order-book  under  date  August  5,  1628.  After  reciting 
the  founder's  statute,  it  goes  on : 

'  Notwithstanding  wee  are  persuaded  that  it  was  neyther 
his  meaning  to  forbid  the  choyce  of  a  beneficed  man  nor 
his  retayning  of  the  said  cure  for  a  convenient  time,  which 
we  conceive  to  be  about  but  not  above  that  time  which  the 
fellowes  are  allowed  to  enjoy  their  places  after  they  have 
induction  into  a  liveing.  This  we  all  agreed  upon  before 
the  admission  of  the  present  Master.  August  5,  l628, 
anno  regni  Regis  Caroli  quarto.* 

This  is  signed  by  all  twelve  Fellows,  of  whom  Anthony 
Tuckney — himself  afterwards  Master — is  one.  It  does 
not  appear,  however,  that  Sandcroft,  in  compliance  with 
this  interpretation,  either  resigned  his  benefice  or  refused 
any  new  one.  His  nine  years  of  mastership  was  a  period 
of  continuous  prosperity  as  far  as  numbers  were  con- 
cerned ;  it  also  witnessed  a  great  increase  in  the  buildings 
by  the  commencement  of  what  is  now  called  the  *  old 
court,"*  the  call  for  which  is  attributed,  in  the  College 
order  of  February  4,  1633,  to  the  necessity 

'  of  enlarging  our  roome,  which  long  time  hathe  been  and 
still  is  too  scant  to  receive  the  number  of  students  in  the 
Colledge,  and  for  bringing  of  them  all  to  keepe  and  lodge 
within  the  walls  (according  to  the  express  words  of  the 


SANDCROFT^S  MASTERSHIP  75 

statute,  cap.  40,  Nullum  pro  pensonario  ad  convictum 
scholarium  aut  sociorum  admitti  vel  in  Collegio  morari 
volumus  qui  non  cameram  habeat  uti  in  dicto  Collegio 
cubet).  It  was  thought  fitt  by  the  Master  and  the 
Society,  and  accordingly  agreed  and  concluded  by  joynt 
and  unanimous  consent  of  the  major  part,  to  have  a  new 
range  of  building  erected  from  the  founder's  chamber  to 
Pit's  garden  according  to  a  plott  drawne  and  covenants 
made  to  that  purpose.' 

He  also  seems  to  have  begun  by  reforming  certain 
irregularities  in  the  entering  of  scholars'*  names  and 
counties  in  the  College  register,  and  the  habit  of  some 
scholars  getting  their  food  and  drink  from  the  town 
instead  of  the  College  butteries.  Discipline  would  also 
seem,  from  the  admonition-book,  to  have  been  well 
maintained.  But,  on  the  other  hand,  he  seems  to  have 
had  somewhat  violent  quarrels  with  the  Fellows.  To 
begin  with,  he  headed  a  moiety  of  the  Fellows  (six)  in 
petitioning  the  Chancellor  to  obtain  the  revocation  of 
the  royal  dispensation  from  the  de  mora  statute.  The 
Chancellor  was  now  an  Emmanuel  man,  Lord  Holland, 
who  had  by  the  King's  injunction  succeeded  Buckingham 
(murdered  in  1628),  and  they  may  have  thought  him 
likely — *  as  the  noble  ornament  of  our  College  ' — to 
support  the  wishes  of  the  majority.  The  petition, 
however,  was  unsuccessful,  but  its  last  clause  indicates 
a  considerable  tension  :  '  Ninthly,  the  statute  standing 
in  its  former  force  would  have  prevented  no  small 
disturbances  of  the  peace  of  the  College  which  have 
lately  happened.'  That  these  '  disturbances  of  the 
peace  of  the  College '  continued,  and  sometimes  in  an 
acute  form,  is  shown  by  the  admonition-book,  in  which 


76  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

for  the  first  two  occasions  a  peremptory  admonition  is 
administered  to  one  of  the  Fellows,  Henry  Salmon, 
afterwards  Rector  of  Standground,  for  countermanding 
orders  of  the  Master.  The  matter  seems  to  have 
gone  before  the  Vice  -  Chancellor,  whereupon  Salmon 
made  some  apology  ;  for  the  admonition  is  crossed 
out,  and  Sandcroft  adds  a  note  that  he  is  content 
upon  that  to  withdraw  the  admonition.  The  entry 
in  the  admonition-book  does  not  enlighten  us  as  to 
the  exact  nature  of  Salmon's  offence,  but  it  is  eloquent 
of  the  discord  reigning  in  the  College. 

'  Mem"'"  y'  upon  y^  8  October,  1632,  Mr.  Salmon  was 
peremptorily  admonished  by  the  M"^  with  y^  assistance  of 
y^  Deane  and  in  y^  presence  of  Mr.  Foster  and  Mr.  Gierke, 
y^  two  senior  fellowes,  for  affronting  and  resisting  the  M*" 
openly  in  y«  execution  of  his  place  by  counter-manding 
what  he  had  commanded,  to  y^  infringing  of  his  authority 
and  respect  contrary  to  y^  statutes  both  of  y^  Colledge  and 
University,  and  (which  is  most  of  all)  to  his  Majesty e's 
Royall  injunction  and  ordinances  sent  to  y«  University  to 
be  observed  and  executed. 

'William  Sandcroft.' 

Sandcroffs  note  is  as  follows  : 

'  Upon  satisfaction  given  to  me  by  Mr.  Salmon  before 
Mr.  Vice-Chancellor,  Dr.  Ward,  and  Dr.  Gwin,  I  was  con- 
tented at  their  request  to  remitt  this  censure.' 

A  letter  from  Tuckney  in  the  same  year  (September  7, 
1635)  from  Boston,  addressed  to  '  the  Right  Worshipful 
and  Rev'i  Dr.  Sandcroft,**  shows  that  this  was  not  a 
solitary  case : 


SANDCROFl'S  MASTERSHIP  77 

'Worthy  Sir, 

'  I  beseech  you  pardon  my  boldness,  if  out  of  zeal 
for  the  Colledge  good,  and  your  honour,  1  become  a  humble 
petitioner  to  you,  and  that  you  would  study  the  College 
peace,  willingly  maintain  the  Fellows'  lawful  priviledges  as 
your  own,  especially  if  in  small  matters,  tho  they  be  against 
your  judgment,  in  wisdome  to  chuse  the  fittest  time  and 
fayrest  means  to  reform  them,  and  rather  than  to  make  a 
breach,  fayrly  to  pass  them  by,  till  you  may  effect  what 
you  desire  more  conveniently.  Former  broyles  and  foyles 
in  the  like  kind  have  been  dishonourable  to  the  whole 
body,  if  not  in  your  time,  yet  I  am  sure  in  your  Prede- 
cessor's ;  his  clashing  with  the  fellows,  especially  those  who 
were  a  means  to  bring  him  into  his  mastership,  gayned 
himself  a  greater  fall  than  he  could  give  them,  though 
then  he  was  as  potent  as  another.  The  sad  event  of  those 
jarrs  which  I  then  saw,  the  certain  ruin  of  a  divided  house 
which  I  read  of,  the  greater  advantage  in  this  which  some 
great  Visitor  may  gaine,  by  getting  the  finger  into  such  a 
hole  to  make  the  greater  rent,  and  the  earnest  desire  of 
such  of  your  fellowes  (who  truly  honour  you,  and  dearly 
tender  your  health  and  life,  which  by  such  paroxysms  they 
fear  may  be  endangered)  that  1  would  do  what  I  could  to 
make  up  the  breach,  have  made  me  as  free  with  some  of 
the  fellows  of  the  one  side,  so  bold  also  with  you  the 
worthy  Master  on  the  other,  to  treat  or  rather  intreat  for 
a  full  Pacification.  Which  should  I  be  so  happy  as  to  be 
the  means  of,  I  should  ever  have  cause  to  bless  God  for  it, 
and  none  I  hope  would  have  cause  to  distaste  this  my 
humble  boldness,  which  yet  I  crave  pardon  for,  and  with 
tender  of  my  best  service  and  heartiest  desires  of  your 
health  and  peace,  and  the  Colleges  continued  flourish 
under  you,  I  humbly  crave  leave,  and  rest 

'  Your  worships  in  Christ  to  be  commanded, 

*  Anth.  Tuckney.' 


78  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

What  these  '  broyles '  were  we  have  no  means  of 
exactly  ascertaining,  but  they  were  at  any  rate  partly 
on  financial  questions.  For  instance,  on  October  30, 
1634,  an  appeal  was  made  by  the  four  senior  Fellows 
(Clerk,  Wright,  Hall,  and  Salmon)  to  the  Vice- 
Chancellor  (Lowe)  and  the  two  senior  Doctors  of 
Divinity  (Ward  of  Sidney  and  Bainbrigg  of  Christ's) 
as  to  £4!  a  year  which  they  alleged  was  due  to  each 
of  them  —  as  senior  Fellows  in  Holy  Orders  —  from 
the  Pinchbeck  property,  as  well  as  certain  shares  of  the 
'  sealing '  money.  The  award  went  wholly  in  favour  of 
the  Fellows;  but  it  is  significant  that  Salmon  should 
again  be  a  party  to  a  controversy  with  the  Master  as  in 
the  quarrel  already  described,  leading  like  the  former 
to  a  case  before  the  Vice-Chancellor  and  visitors. 

In  the  course  of  Sandcroff's  mastership  there  was 
another  alarm  of  the  plague.  A  College  order  of 
April  20,  1630,  records  that  '  through  God's  just  hand 
the  infection  of  the  plague  is  soe  spread  in  many  places 
of  y*'  towne  that  scarce  any  Schollars  are  left  in  the 
Colledge';  the  Master  and  Fellows  and  scholars  are 
therefore  allowed  free  leave  to  go  anywhere  that  may 
be  safe,  without  loss  of  allowances,  till  next  commence- 
ment, or,  if  the  plague  continues,  till  September  29. 
By  another  order  of  October  1  in  the  same  year,  the 
leave  is  extended  to  November  1,  '  because  we  cannot 
safely  return  to  the  Colledge."*  Another  item  in  College 
management,  with  which  Sandcroft  is  connected  in  the 
order-book,  is  a  rearrangement  of  the  rents  of  scholars' 
chambers,  which  vary  from  10s.  in  the  garrets  to 
26s.  8d.  (2  marks)  in  the  '  new  building  next  the  fields,' 
which  is  a  considerable  advance  on  the  scale  as  settled 


SANDCROtT^S  MASTERSHIP  79 

in  1614,  in  which  the  highest  is  10s.  and  the  lowest  2s. 
He  seems  to  have  been  active  in  discipline,  as  twenty- 
four  admonitions  are  signed  by  him,  the  offences  being 
generally  drunkenness,  quarrelling  and  striking,  being 
out  in  prohibited  hours,  and  negligence  at  chapel. 
The  end  is  briefly  noted  in  Worthington's  diary : 

'  16*37,  April  6.— The  Master  of  the  College  (Dr.  Sand- 
croft)  returned  from  Bury. 

'April  13. — The  Master  of  the  College  went  to  Bury 
again,  where  he  died  not  long  after. 

'April  25. — On  this  day  was  the  election  of  a  new 
Master,  viz.,  Mr.  Holdsworth.  April  26  he  was  ad- 
mitted.' 

Under  Sandcroffs  rule  a  group  of  men  were  educated 
at  Emmanuel  who  headed  a  reaction  against  the  extreme 
school  of  Calvin.  They  were  led  in  divergent  ways  to 
moderate  Puritanism  combined  with  Church manship, 
to  Independency,  to  rational  theology.  Many  of  them 
were  pupils  of  Anthony  Tuckney  (Fellow  1619-1629), 
and  were  much  influenced  by  him,  who,  though  doc- 
trinally  a  strong  Calvinist,  was  yet  in  practical  matters 
moderate  and  tolerant.  The  most  distinguished  repre- 
sentative of  Independency  was  Peter  Sterry  (Fellow 
1636).  He  does  not  seem  to  have  resided.  He  went 
to  London  as  a  '  preacher,'  and  was  nominated  as  one 
of  the  Westminster  Assembly  in  1 642.  In  Cambridge 
he  had  been  looked  upon  as  a  mystic,  and  as  one  of  the 
'Platonists'  noticed  below.  His  views,  however,  re- 
commended him  to  Cromwell,  whose  chaplain  he 
became,  as  well  as  '  Preacher  to  the  Council  of  State.' 
His  thanksgiving  sermon  before  Parliament  on  Novem- 


80  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

ber  5,  1650,  shows  that  he  was  as  bitterly  opposed  to 
Presbyterian  as  to  Episcopal  Church  government.  It 
is  called  EnglancTs  Deliverance  from  the  Northern 
Presbytery  compared  with  its  Deliverance  from  the 
Roman  Papacy.  It  is  written  in  vigorous  English,  and 
its  view  of  the  Presbytery  may  be  summed  up  in  Milton's 
phrase,  '  New  Presbyter  is  but  old  Priest  writ  large,** 
and  in  the  almost  contemporary  sonnet  to  Cromwell : 

'  New  foes  arise 
.    Threatening  to  bind  our  souls  with  secular  chains. 
Help  us  to  save  free  conscience  from  the  paw 
Of  hireling  wolves,  whose  Gospel  is  their  maw.' 

As  chaplain  of  Parliament  he  exercised  the  function, 
formerly  belonging  to  the  Archbishop,  of  Censor  to  the 
Press,  giving  his  imprimatur  to  such  works  as  were 
authorized.  He  was  fitted  for  this  by  his  literary  tastes 
and  love  of  the  arts,  in  which  he  differed  from  the 
ordinary  Puritans  and  Presbyterians,  the  latter  of  whom 
he  denounces  in  his  sermon  because,  among  other  things, 
'  they  attack  the  sense  and  fancy  as  vain.'  He  printed 
little  in  his  lifetime,  but  after  his  death  there  were 
published :  (1)  Discourse  of  the  Freedom  of  the  Will, 
fol.,  1675 ;  (2)  The  Rise,  Race,  and  Royalty  of  the 
Kingdom  of  God  in  the  Soul  of  Man,  4to.,  1688 ;  (3) 
The  Appearance  of  God  to  Man  in  the  Gospel  and 
Gospel  Change,  4to.,  1710.  In  the  last-named  a  second 
volume  is  promised  containing  his  letters,  but  it  does 
not  seem  to  have  appeared.  His  style,  which  is  vigorous 
and  direct,  has  been  compared  with  Milton's,  with  whom 
(according  to  some)  he  was  associated  as  Latin  secretary. 
His  brother  Nathaniel  also  graduated  at  Emmanuel  in 


THE  CAMBRIDGE  PLATONISTS  81 

1648,  but  in  the  following  year  became  a  Fellow  of 
Merton  College,  Oxford. 

Of  the  other  divines  collectively  spoken  of  as  the 
Cambridge  Platonists,  or  sometimes  as  Latitudinarians, 
who,  starting  from  Puritanism,  rebelled  against  its 
narrowness  and  dogmatism,  and,  above  all,  against  its 
depreciation  of  learning  and  reason,  most  were  Emmanuel 
men.  The  leader  was  Benjamin  Whichcote,  who 
entered  the  College  in  1626,  was  elected  Fellow  in  1633, 
and  remained  in  College,  taking  many  pupils,  till  1643, 
when  he  was  presented  to  North  Cadbury.  He  had 
hardly  settled  there  and  married,  when  he  was  called  back 
to  Cambridge  and  made  Provost  of  King's  College,  on  the 
ejection  of  Collis  by  the  Parliamentary  Commissioners 
headed  by  Manchester.  He  accepted  the  office  with 
hesitation  (March  19),  and  insisted  on  Collis  receiving 
half  the  emolument.  In  1649  he  gave  up  North  Cad- 
bury, and  was  presented  by  King's  to  Milton.  Ejected 
from  the  provostship  in  1660,  he  retained  Milton,  and, 
accepting  the  Act  of  Uniformity,  was  elected  and 
licensed  to  the  cure  of  St.  Anne's,  Blackfriars  (No- 
vember, 1662),  and,  on  the  destruction  of  that  church 
in  the  Fire  of  1666,  was  presented  by  the  Crown  to 
St.  Laurence  Jewry.  He  died  in  1683  while  on  a  visit 
to  Cudworth  at  Christ's  College.  While  at  King's,  and 
perhaps  before,  he  '  lectured '  in  the  afternoon  at 
Trinity  Church  in  Cambridge,  a  duty  which  he  main- 
tained for  many  years.  Several  of  the  Fellows  of 
Colleges — his  friends  and  followers — did  the  same  in 
other  churches.  It  was  by  preaching,  and  by  his  per- 
sonal intercourse  with  his  pupils  and  friends,  that  his 
great  work  was  done  and  his  extraordinary  influence  at 

6 


82  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

Cambridge,  and  thence  on  the  Church  in  general,  exer- 
cised. He  published  nothing  during  his  life,  but  after  his 
death  there  appeared  some  sermons  or  notes  of  sermons, 
and  certain  apophthegms,  taken  down  by  a  pupil  or  hearer, 
under  the  title  of  Seo^opovjueva  Boy/Mara  (1685),  and 
in  1753  was  published  Moral  ami  Religions  Aphoi'isms, 
with  the  letters  which  passed  between  Whichcote  and 
Tuckney  in  1651,  on  the  unsoundness  of  Whichcote's 
theology,  which  had  alarmed  Tuckney.  But  in  spite 
of  Tuckney's  opposition,  and  that  of  Arrowsmith  of 
St.  John'*s,  and  Hill  of  Trinity,  the  younger  Masters 
of  Arts  in  the  University  very  largely  embraced  his 
liberal  opinions,  and  the  movement  thus  inaugurated 
was  an  important  element  in  the  reaction  which  at  the 
Restoration  revived  Episcopacy  and  the  Church  with 
such  apparent  ease  and  popular  approval. 

Another  of  this  school  was  Ralph  Cud  worth,  son  of 
a  former  Fellow  of  the  College  and  Rector  of  Aller, 
who  entered  Emmanuel  in  1632,  and  was  elected  Fellow 
November  9,  1639.  He  had  many  pupils,  among  whom 
was  Sir  W.  Temple.  In  1645  he  was  made  Master  of 
Clare  by  the  Parliamentary  Visitors,  and  in  the  same 
year  was  elected  Professor  of  Hebrew.  In  1651  he  was 
presented  to  North  Cadbury  by  Emmanuel,  and  in  1654 
was  elected  Master  of  Christ's,  which  place  he  held  till 
his  death  in  1688.  His  great  work  was  The  True 
Intellectual  System  of  the  Universe  (1678,  fol.).  It  was 
designed  to  show  the  impossibility  of  atheism,  and  to 
establish  the  liberty  of  human  action  as  against  the 
fatalists.  It  reviews  the  ancient  systems  of  philosophy, 
and  broaches  '  his  own  famous  theory  of  a  plastic  nature 
— a  device  to  account  for  the  operations  of  physical  laws 


THE  CAMBRIDGE  PLATONISTS  83 

without  the  continued  agency  of  the  Deity '  (Hallam, 
Lit.  Hist.,  iv.  65).  The  fourth  and  longest  chapter  of 
the  book  seeks  to  establish  by  a  wider  review  of  ancient 
literature  and  philosophy  that  the  unity  of  God  had 
always  been  believed.  The  hall-mark  of  this  book,  as 
of  others  by  Cud  worth,  distinguishing  it  from  the  works 
of  the  party  from  which  the  Platonists  emerged,  is 
learning.  Hebrew  and  Greek  learning  was  decried 
by  many  of  the  Puritans;  Cudworth,  like  the  others 
of  his  school,  pursued  it  in  every  shape  and  in  every 
place. 

Another  eminent  member  of  this  school  was  Na- 
thaniel CuLVERWELL  (a  name  familiar  to  us  as  that  of 
Chaderton^s  wife),  who  was  elected  Fellow  in  1642. 
He  was  still  a  Fellow  in  June,  1646  (Worthington, 
vol.  i.,  p.  24),  but  beyond  the  fact  that  he  was  dead  when 
his  College  sermons  and  his  treatise  A  Discourse  of  the 
Light  of  Nature  were  edited  by  William  Dillingham 
in  1651-52  ;  that  he  had  suffered  from  ill-health ;  and, 
as  his  brother's  letter  prefixed  to  the  Discourse  infers, 
that  he  was  of  a  reserved  and,  some  thought,  haughty 
nature,  we  know  nothing  of  him.  The  sermon  Mt.  Ebal 
seems  to  have  been  preached  in  1642  or  1643,  when  the 
country  was  shuddering  at  the  news  of  the  Irish  Mas- 
sacre, and  his  references  to  that  event,  and  an  approving 
allusion  to  the  Covenant,  show  that  he  was  in  sympathy 
with  the  Puritan  party  at  the  beginning  of  the  struggle 
between  King  and  Parliament.  But  the  Discourse, 
composed  about  1645,  plainly  classes  him  rather  with 
Cudworth  than  with  the  fanatics.  It  is  an  eloquent 
composition,  and  its  chief  purpose  is  to  vindicate  the 
value  of  human  reason  and  the  supreme  importance  of 

6—2 


.84  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

the  light  of  knowledge :  '  Reason  and  Faith  may  kiss 
each  other.  There  is  a  twin  light  springing  from 
both,  and  they  both  spring  from  the  same  fountain  of 
light/  That  is  the  moral  of  the  whole  treatise,  which 
is  full  of  learning  and  studded  with  quotations  in 
Hebrew,  Greek,  and  Latin — a  brilliant  protest  against 
the  narrow  views  that  had  so  long  prevailed  in  the 
University. 

Two  years  junior  to  Culverwell  was  John  Smith 
(M.A.  1644),  who  was  made  Fellow  of  Queens'*  by  the 
Earl  of  Manchester.  His  Select  Discourses  (London, 
1660)  were  edited  by  Worthington  after  his  death, 
which  took  place  in  1652.  His  style  is  as  good  as  that 
of  Culverwell,  or  even  better.  It  is,  indeed,  surprisingly 
clear  and  forcible,  and  with  the  true  rhythm  of  musical 
prose.  It  is  saturated  with  learning  and  philosophy. 
Lastly  may  be  mentioned,  as  in  general  sympathy  with 
this  school,  John  Worthington,  who,  besides  editing 
Smith'*s  Select  Discourses,  has  left  a  journal  and  corre- 
spondence which  has  been  edited  for  the  Cheetham 
Society.  He  entered  Emmanuel  as  a  sizar  in  1632,  and 
was  admitted  Fellow  in  1642  after  some  contest,  of 
which  an  account  has  to  be  given  in  the  next 
chapter.  Though  a  constant  preacher  in  chapel,  his 
interests  were  rather  literary  and  philosophical  than 
theological.  Yet  several  of  his  theological  works  went 
through  many  editions,  and  were  translated  into  German. 
From  1650  to  1660  he  was  Master  of  Jesus,  being  dis- 
placed at  the  latter  date  to  make  room  for  the  return 
of  Sterne,  who  had  been  ejected  in  1644. 

Another  of  the  undergraduates  of  Sandcroffs  time 
had  a  very  different  career.    John  Sadler  (B.A.  1633, 


SADLER  AND  WALLIS  85 

Fellow  1638)  became  a  lawyer,  and  was  offered  the  post 
of  Chief  Justice  of  Munster  by  Cromwell.  In  1650  he 
was  made  Master  of  Magdalene.  For  some  time  he  was 
M.P.  for  Cambridge,  and  later  on  for  Great  Yarmouth, 
and  held  many  offices  under  the  Protectorate,  which  he 
lost  at  the  Restoration.  His  works  (including  a 
masque)  were  not  important,  but  he  gained  some 
notoriety  by  prophesying  in  1662  the  Great  Plague 
and  Fire  of  London.  His  contemporaries  thought  him 
somewhat  of  a  lunatic.  John  Breton  (1629)  and 
William  Dillingham  (1636),  both  successively  Masters 
of  the  College,  will  be  noticed  in  due  course.  But  the 
most  substantial  fame  was  won  by  John  Wallis  (scholar 
1632,  B.A.  1636),  who  gained  his  first  reputation  by 
the  solution  of  ciphers,  and  was  made  a  Fellow  of 
Queens'*  in  1644  by  order  of  Parliament,  and  in  1649 
Savilian  Professor  of  Astronomy  at  Oxford  by  Oliver 
Cromwell.  His  mathematical  works  were  the  most 
original  and  suggestive  ever  published  in  England 
before  those  of  Newton.  His  Arithmetica  Infinitorum 
(1655)  and  its  introduction  'contained  germs  of  the 
differential  calculus,  and  gave  in  everything  but  form 
advanced  specimens  of  the  integral  calculus'  {Dictionary 
of  National  Biography).  This  was  followed  by  the 
Mechanica  (1669),  which  contained  'a  correct  theory  of 
the  impacts  of  inelastic  bodies.'  Between  these  two 
works  there  were  numerous  other  mathematical  tractates 
of  value.  He  has  the  credit  of  first  discovering  how 
to  teach  the  deaf  and  dumb  to  speak,  and  he  published 
also  sermons  and  works  on  theology,  grammar,  and 
logic.  His  political  conduct  was  so  cautious  or  mode- 
rate that  he  suffered  no  deprivations  at  the  Restoration. 


86  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

He  retained  a  high  reputation  for  scholarship  and 
science  till  his  death  in  1703,  at  the  age  of  eighty-six. 
His  having  failed  to  be  elected  Fellow  at  Emmanuel  is 
probably  to  be  explained  by  the  fact  that  there  was 
already  a  Fellow  of  the  county  of  Kent  elected  in  1635 
(Richard  Welles).  Jeremiah  Horrocks,  sizar  1632, 
was  a  most  distinguished  astronomer,  who,  with  no 
appliances,  made  many  remarkable  discoveries.  When 
Curate  of  Hook  he  predicted  and  observed  a  transit  of 
Venus,  November  24, 1639.  He  died  in  1641.  As  repre- 
sentatives of  learning  may  here  be  mentioned,  though 
they  entered  the  College  somewhat  earlier,  Edmund 
Castell  (1621),  Professor  of  Arabic  (1664),  author  of 
the  *  Lexicon  Heptaglotton,"*  on  which  he  worked  eighteen 
hours  a  day  for  seventeen  years ;  and  Sir  Roger  Twysden 
(1614),  who  was  one  of  the  editors  of  the  English 
chronicles  {Historiw  Anglicanoc  Scriptores  Decern^  1652). 
He  was  first  on  the  side  of  the  Parliament,  but  was 
afterwards  imprisoned  by  it.     He  survived  till  1672. 

Though  the  active  influence  of  the  men  here  described 
belongs  to  the  next  generation,  all,  except  the  two 
last-named,  entered  the  College  during  Sandcroft's 
mastership.  At  his  death  the  College  had  existed  just 
fifty-three  years.  It  must  be  acknowledged  that  for 
that  short  period — short  in  the  life  of  a  permanent 
institution — it  had  been  fortunate  both  in  the  number 
and  varied  eminence  of  its  sons.  It  had,  so  to  speak, 
caught  a  movement  on  the  rise,  and  had  been  able  to 
identify  itself  both  with  its  ascent  and  decline.  It  had 
already  an  individuality  which  attracted  benefactions, 
and  induced  men  of  high  standing  to  select  it  for  their 
sons. 


CHAPTER  V 

PERIOD  OF  THE  CIVIL  WAR:  MASTERSHIPS  OF 
RICHARD  HOLDSWORTH  (1637-1644),  ANTHONY 
TUCKNEY  (1644-1653),  AND  WILLIAM  DILLINGHAM 
(1653-1662) 

We  have  seen  the  steady  rise  of  the  College  in  numbers 
and  importance  since  its  foundation,  and  its  productive- 
ness in  men  of  earnest  convictions — convictions  which 
brought  them  into  conflict  with  the  ecclesiastical 
authorities,  and  in  many  cases  led  them  to  seek  beyond 
the  ocean  a  new  country,  where  their  views  might  have 
freer  play.  Lastly  we  have  seen  how  the  College  had 
begun  to  produce  men  destined  to  lead  a  reaction  against 
the  narrowness  and  dogmatism  of  this  party,  without, 
as  yet,  any  wide  divergence  from  their  predecessors  in 
fundamentals.  The  period  of  the  Civil  War  saw  the 
College  rise  to  its  zenith  in  point  of  numbers  and 
University  importance,  but  prepared  the  way  to  a  very 
sudden  and  very  marked  fall. 

On  the  death  of  Sandcroft  the  Fellows  looked  abroad 
for  a  new  Master.  Perhaps  their  division  of  sentiment 
made  an  election  within  their  own  walls  difficult.  They 
fixed  upon  Richard   Holdsworth,  late  Fellow  of  St. 

87 


88  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

John's,  Rector  of  St.  Peter's,  Broad  Street,  London,  and 
Gresham  Professor  of  Divinity.  In  1633  he  had  been 
elected  master  by  a  majority  of  the  Fellows  of  St.  John's, 
but  the  senior  Fellows  wished  for  a  certain  Dr.  Lane,  and 
Charles  I.,  on  being  appealed  to,  nominated  Lane,  but 
on  receiving  remonstrance,  and  making  further  investi- 
gation, annulled  both  elections,  and  William  Beal  was 
appointed  by  royal  mandate.  Holdsworth,  however, 
became  Archdeacon  of  Huntingdon  and  Prebend  of 
Buckden,  two  pieces  of  preferment  held  by  the  late 
Master  of  St.  John's.  He  had  a  great  reputation  in 
London  both  as  a  preacher  and  lecturer  at  Gresham's 
College,  and  belonged  to  the  party  of  the  moderate 
Puritans.  Though  he  objected  to  the  continuance 
of  Convocation  by  royal  writ  in  1640,  and  signed  his 
assent  to  Usher's  schemes  for  Synods  to  take  the  place 
of  Bishops,  he  seems  quickly  to  have  altered  his  opinion, 
and  to  have  remained  a  staunch  Church  of  England 
man,  and  from  the  outbreak  of  the  war  an  enthusiastic 
Loyalist. 

He  was  elected  on  April  25,  and  admitted  on  the 
26th,  1637.  The  first  three  years  of  his  mastership 
seem  to  have  passed  quietly,  but  two  points  of  College 
policy  were  settled  almost  immediately  after  his  election. 
The  College  order  of  July  28,  1637,  made  a  fresh 
interpretation  of  the  thirteenth  statute,  declaring  that 
the  Master  was  not  bound  to  give  up  any  ecclesiastical 
preferment  which  he  held  before  his  election.  This  is 
signed  by  six  Fellows.  Another  order  on  the  same  day, 
signed  by  the  same  six  and  the  Master,  declared  that 
among  'the  violent  detensions'  justifying  a  Fellow's 
absence  from  College  was  to  be  accounted  '  the  accept- 


HOLDSWORTH^S  MASTERSHIP  89 

ing  of  a  living  to  which  he  shall  be  appointed,"  the 
others  being  a  necessary  suit  of  law  and  '  the  sickness 
or  death  of  very  near  friends.""  The  admonition-book 
shows  that  Holdsworth  was  in  residence  in  the  early 
part  of  1638,  but  in  June  of  that  year,  when  it  became 
necessary  once  more  to  give  leave  of  absence  to  every  one 
to  October  2,  because  'through  God's  just  hand  the 
plague  is  soe  spreade  in  many  places  of  the  towne,  that 
scarce  any  schollers  are  left,'  the  order  is  signed  by 
seven  Fellows  without  the  Master,  who  was  probably  at 
his  cure  in  London.  His  interest  in  education  is  shown 
by  his  elaborate  directions  to  students  for  their  studies 
and  conduct,  his  MS.  of  which  is  in  the  Library.  There 
seems  to  have  been  the  usual  amount  of  disciplinary  cases, 
and  no  more — missing  chapel  and  '  lying  out '  in  the 
town,  and  most  of  all  '  hunting  with  greyhounds.'  But 
the  attention  of  the  Master  and  Fellows  was  soon  called  to 
graver  matters.  The  Short  Parliament  met  on  April  13, 
1640,  and  on  the  29th  of  that  month  the  Commons 
desired  a  conference  with  the  Lords  as  to  Communion- 
tables set  altar- wise  in  parish  churches  and  chapels  in 
the  University,  as  well  as  crosses,  images,  and  crucifixes. 
On  May  1  the  House  heard  a  complaint  of  a  sermon 
preached  by  Beale,  of  St.  John's,  and  ordered  his 
attendance  on  the  7th.  Though  further  proceedings 
were  prevented  by  the  dissolution  on  May  5,  it  was 
evident  that  Parliament,  when  it  did  sit,  had  resolved 
on  interfering  in  the  University. 

Of  all  the  Colleges,  it  would  have  seemed  that 
Emmanuel  had  least  to  fear,  but  it  was,  strange  to  say, 
nearly  the  first  that  drew  upon  itself  the  attention  of 
the   Long   Parliament,   which   met    on   November    3. 


90  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

Absolutely  the  first  was  Peterhouse,  where  a  certain 
Mr.  Norton  complained  that  some  Fellows  had  tried  to 
seduce  his  son  to  Popery  (November  24).*  But  on 
December  17  a  Committee  consisting  of  Sir  H.  Mildmay 
and  thirty-three  other  members  was  appointed  to  con- 
sider a  petition  of  the  family  of  the  founder  as  to 
Emmanuel  College.  It  was  the  old  question  of  the  de 
mora  statute,  and  the  result  was  a  Bill  read  a  second 
time  on  July  2,  1641,  confirming  the  statutes  of  the 
College — i.^.,  abolishing  the  suspension  of  the  statute 
granted  by  the  King  in  1626.  But  while  the  Bill  was 
still  in  suspense  a  case  arose  in  the  College  which  gave 
the  House  an  opportunity  of  definite  interference.  On 
October  16,  1641,  there  was  an  election  to  a  Fellowship. 
The  Master  and  four  Fellows  voted  for  Worthington, 
six  Fellows  for  a  Mr.  T.  Hodges.  But  three  of  the  six, 
Holbech,  Harris,  and  Hall,  were  past  the  standing  of 
Doctor,  and  Worthington  and  his  friends  protested 
against  their  votes.  They  appear  to  have  justified  their 
vote  on  the  ground  that  Hodges  came  from  one  of  the 
two  counties,  Essex  and  Northamptonshire,  to  which 
the  founder  had  given  a  preference.  The  four  for 
Worthington  (Whichcote,  Almond,  Sadler,  Cudworth) 
replied  that  such  preference  was  only  cccteris  paribus, 
and  was  not  intended  to  override  merit.  The  matter 
was  at  once  reported  to  the  House  of  Commons,  and  on 
October  21  an  order  was  passed  forbidding  the  Master 
to  admit  either  till  the  Committee  appointed  to  consider 

*  Peterhouse,  whose  Master  was  Cosin,  seems  to  have  been 
notorious  in  this  respect.  In  Worthington's  Diary,  under  January  i6, 
1640,  we  find :  '  There  was  one  Mr.  Nicols  put  in  prison  here  for 
speaking  against  the  King's  supremacy  and  seducing  to  Popery. 
He  was  Fellow  of  Peterhouse.' 


HOLDSWORTH'S  MASTERSHIP  91 

the  Bill  above  mentioned  had  investigated  the  case. 
The  Committee  was  to  be  revived  for  this  purpose,  and 
to  sit  on  January  3, 1642.  In  consequence  of  its  report, 
a  resolution  was  passed  on  March  22  declaring  that 
Holbech,  Harris,  and  Hall  were  no  longer  Fellows,  and 
ought  not  to  have  voted,  and  that  Worthington  had 
been  duly  elected.  Though  the  power  of  the  House  to 
enforce  such  an  order,  or  to  interfere  in  the  matter  at  all, 
seems  very  questionable,  it  was  obeyed,  and  on  April  4 
Worthington  was  admitted  Fellow. 

Holds  worth,  though  he  had  voted  for  Worthington, 
seems  to  have  protested  against  the  action  of  Parlia- 
ment, but  with  no  other  result  than  to  draw  upon 
himself  the  suspicions  of  the  House.  Other  measures 
affecting  the  University  were  adopted  simultaneously  or 
soon  afterwards.  On  January  20,  1641,  a  resolution 
was  passed  against  imposing  on  scholars  a  subscription 
to  the  Articles,  and  on  the  22nd  another  condemning 
Cosin,  Master  of  Perterhouse,  for '  bringing  superstitious 
innovations  into  the  Church  leading  to  idolatry,  and 
speaking  scandalous  and  malicious  words  against  his 
Majesty'^s  supremacy  and  the  established  religion,'  and 
declaring  him  unfit  to  be  Master.  On  July  23  in  the 
same  year 

'  the  House  of  Commons  receiving  information  concerning 
an  oration  made  in  the  University  of  Cambridge,  touching 
the  decay  of  learning,  by  Dr.  Holdsworth,  the  Vice-Chan- 
cellor,  wherein  it  was  alleged  were  great  reflections  on  the 
proceedings  of  Parliament,  referred  the  matter  to  the  con- 
sideration of  a  committee.' 

We  do  not  know  what  the  report  of  this  Committee 
was,  but  Holdsworth  was  not  disturbed  for  the  present, 


92  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

and  though  he  had  been  appointed  one  of  the  King's 
chaplains,  and  had  entertained  the  King  and  Prince  in 
March,  1642  (Cooper,  Annals,  iii.  322),  he  was  in  May 
of  the  same  year  nominated  upon  the  Westminster 
Assembly  of  Divines  by  the  House  of  Lords,  and 
approved  by  the  Commons.  His  duties  as  Vice-Chan- 
cellor,  however,  kept  him  at  Cambridge,  and  he  does 
not  appear  to  have  attended  the  Assembly.  He  seems 
not  to  have  been  officially  concerned  in  the  business  of 
sending  College  plate  to  the  King  in  August,  1642 ;  but 
in  February,  1643,  an  order  was  passed  that  '  Dr. 
Holdsworth  the  Vice-Chancellor  be  forthwith  sent  for 
in  safe  custody,  at  his  own  charges,  and  that  Captain 
Cromwell  be  desired  to  take  care  to  send  him  up 
accordingly."*  His  offence  was  having  licensed  the 
printing  of  Feme's  pamphlet,  the  title  of  which  will 
show  the  reason  :  The  Resolving  of  Conscience  upon 
this  Question:  zvhether  upon  a  Supposition  or  Case  as 
is  tiow  usually  made  (viz.,  the  Xing'  will  not  discharge 
his  Trust,  hut  is  bent  or  seduced  to  unbend  Religion), 
Subjects  may  take  up  Arms  and  resist?  and  zahether 
that  case  is  now  ?  He  had  also  paid  ,^100  for  the 
College  to  the  King,  for  which  a  receipt,  August  11, 
1642,  is  in  the  College  treasury. 

Though  sent  to  London  in  accordance  with  this 
order,  he  seems  to  have  returned  shortly,  for  on  Good 
Friday,  March  30,  1643,  he  was  with  the  Heads  in  con- 
sistory to  consider  the  demand  of  money  for  Parliament. 
As  they  did  not  answer  at  once.  Lord  Grey  and  Crom- 
well's soldiers  surrounded  the  schools,  and  kept  them 
there  till  one  o'clock  the  next  morning.  Yet  next  day 
they  told  Lord  Grey  '  that  it  was  against  true  religion 


HOLDSWORTH'S  MASTERSHIP  93 

and  a  good  conscience  to  contribute  to  the  Parliament  in 
this  war."*  The  Parliament,  however,  was  resolved  to 
be  avenged  on  Holdsworth.  In  May  he  was  arrested 
for  licensing  the  printing  of  the  King's  declaration  from 
York,  and  confined  first  in  Ely  House,  and  then  in  the 
Tower,  where  he  remained  till  October  31,  when  he  was 
released  on  bail  on  account  of  his  health.  While  a 
prisoner  in  Ely  House  he  was  elected  to  the  Lady 
Margaret  Professorship  of  Divinity,  and  it  was  this 
defiance  that  caused  his  removal  to  the  Tower,  in  order 
that  no  officer  of  the  University  should  have  access  to 
him  to  tender  the  oath  of  admittance  to  the  office.  The 
University  officials  were,  moreover,  forbidden  to  admit 
him  'till  the  house  take  further  order'  (October  2,  1643). 
The  condition  of  his  release  from  the  Tower  was  that 
he  should  not  go  more  than  twenty  miles  from  London. 
Ralph  Brownrigg,  Bishop  of  Exeter,  and  Master  of 
St.  Catherine's,  acted  as  deputy  Vice-Chancellor,  and 
Robert  Sorsby,  a  senior  Fellow,  as  deputy  Master  of 
Emmanuel.  Meanwhile  practical  steps  had  been  taken 
to  bring  the  University  into  harmony  with  the  ordin- 
ances of  Parliament.  Under  date  December  20,  1643, 
Worthington  notes  in  his  journal,  'This  week  pictures 
began  to  be  taken  down  in  Cambridge  by  order  of  the 
Earl  of  Manchester.'  And  in  February  of  the  next 
year  Manchester,  accompanied  by  two  chaplains,  arrived 
with  full  powers  '  to  endeavour  the  reformation  of  the 
University,'  and  gave  notice  that  all  Fellows,  scholars, 
and  officers  of  each  College  were  to  be  in  residence  by 
March  10  following.  He  had  authority  to  eject 
Masters  and  Fellows  for  '  scandalous  lives  or  doctrines,' 
or  for  'opposing   the  proceedings  of  Parliament,'  for 


94  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

non-residence,  or,  in  fact,  for  any  reason  which  seemed 
good  to  him.  He  could  also  call  upon  them  to  take 
the  Covenant.  But  this  does  not  seem  to  have  always 
been  insisted  upon.  Whichcote,  for  instance,  who  was 
made  Provost  of  King''s  by  Manchester,  always  declined 
it,  as  did  Sancroft  (afterwards  Archbishop)  and  other 
Fellows  of  Emmanuel,  without  being  ejected  on  that 
ground.  But  it  was  not  to  be  expected  that  Holds- 
worth,  confined  to  a  circle  of  twenty  miles  round 
London  for  '  delinquency '  as  having  opposed  the  pro- 
ceedings of  Parliament,  would  escape  ejection.  The 
mastership  and  the  London  living  were  already  '  seques- 
tered,' and  early  in  1644  Manchester  seems  to  have  sent 
the  regular  formula  to  the  Fellows  announcing  that 
Holdsworth  was  ejected,  and  Thomas  Hill,  a  former 
Fellow,  and  one  of  the  Westminster  Assembly  of 
Divines,  nominated  to  succeed  him.  The  College,  how- 
ever, was  treated  with  consideration,  as  is  shown  by  the 
following  warrant  of  Manchester's : 

'Whereas  I  am  informed  by  some  of  the  Fellows  of 
Emmanuel  Colledge  that  Dr.  Holdsworth  hath  given  or 
designed  his  library,  or  a  great  part  thereof,  to  the  said 
Colledge :  These  are  therefore  to  require  all  assessors  and 
sequestrators  to  forbear  to  seize  or  sequester  the  said 
library,  or  anything  in  his  lodgings  (within  the  said 
Colledge),  till  you  receive  further  order  from  myself. 
Which  I  require  the  rather  because  I  am  well  assured  that 
all  his  goods  there  besides  books  are  no  way  considerable. 

'  Manchester. 

'Given  under  my  hand  this  third  of  April,  1644.* 

We  shall  hear  more  of  these  books  hereafter.  Holds- 
worth  only  survived  the  King  a  few  months,  dying  in 


PARLIAMENTARY  REFORMS  95 

August,  1649,  after  having  been  often  in  attendance 
upon  him  during  his  confinement  and  trial.  He  pub- 
lished little  in  his  lifetime,  but  shortly  after  his  death 
a  volume  containing  twenty-one  sermons,  and  called 
The  Valley  of  Vision  (1651),  was  published,  including 
one  sermon  printed  during  his  life,  called  '  The  People's 
Happiness,'  and  in  1661  his  nephew  (Richard  Pearson) 
edited  his  prcelectiones  delivered  in  Gresham  College. 

Only  one  other  ejection  befell  Emmanuel,  that  of 
R.  Sorsby,  who  had  been  acting  as  deputy  Master 
during  the  sequestration.  For  the  determination  of 
the  Fellowships  of  Hall,  Holbech,  and  Wright  in  1642 
cannot  count  as  ejection  ;  they  were  merely  declared  to 
be  superannuated  according  to  the  de  mora  statute. 
Nicholas  Hall,  in  fact,  had  refused  to  leave  the  College 
or  acknowledge  his  Fellowship  to  be  void,  and  was 
accordingly  summoned  before  Parliament  as  a  'delin- 
quent '  on  June  10,  1643.  Sorsby  seems  to  have 
brought  his  ejection  upon  himself.  On  October  12, 
1643,  as  locum  tenens  of  the  Master,  he  declared  the 
Fellowships  of  John  Almond  and  John  Sadler  to  be 
vacant,  on  the  ground  of  their  absence  from  College, 
and  protested  against  their  votes  for  the  presentation  to 
North  Cadbury.  Almond  was  a  preacher  at  Lynne,  and 
Sadler  was  in  the  employ  of  Cromwell,  as  we  have  seen, 
and  though  an  appeal  to  the  Visitors,  Ralph  Brownrigg, 
Bishop  of  Exeter,  Master  of  St.  Catherine's,  and  deputy 
Vice-Chancellor,  Bainbrigg,  Master  of  Christ's,  and  Col  lis, 
Regius  Professor  of  Divinity,  the  declaration  of  Sorsby 
was  annulled  (October  17,  1643).  This  or  some  other 
display  of  Royalist  proclivities  attracted  the  attention 
of  the  Committee,  and  on  the  following  April  8  (1644) 


96  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

'his  name  was  cut  out  of  the  butteries  by  command  from 
the  Lord  Manchester'  (Worthington's  Diary).  At  the 
Restoration  he  became  Precentor  of  York. 

Though  Hill  was  nominated  Master  of  Emmanuel, 
and  speaks  of  himself  in  one  of  his  books  as  *late 
Master,'  he  does  not  appear  ever  to  have  been  admitted 
or  to  have  performed  any  function  as  Master.  Before 
he  could  do  either,  he  was  transferred  to  the  master- 
ship of  Trinity.  On  April  11,  1645,  the  Westminster 
Divines  approved  of  the  appointment  of  Anthony 
Tuckney  to  the  mastership  of  Emmanuel,  and  in  July 
of  that  year  we  find  him  admitting  scholars  (Worthing- 
ton,  vol.  i.,  p.  212).  Apparently,  however,  there  was 
some  doubt  as  to  the  legality  of  his  position,  for  as 
late  as  1648  (May  18)  'the  Commons  sent  to  the 
Lords  an  ordinance  for  making  Mr.  Anthony  Tuckney 
Master  of  Emmanuel '  (Cooper,  Annals^  iii.  379). 

Tuckney  at  the  time  of  his  election  was  in  a  con- 
spicuous position,  being  a  leading  member  of  the 
Westminster  Assembly,  and  Rector  of  a  London  living, 
St.  Michael-le-Querne,  in  Cheapside.  During  his  ten 
years  of  Fellowship  (1619-1630)  he  had  been  a  success- 
ful Tutor,  and  had  then  removed  to  Boston  as  '  town 
preacher,'  where  his  cousin,  John  Cotton,  was  Vicar. 
On  Cotton's  emigration  to  America  (1633),  he  succeeded 
him  as  Vicar,  and  remained  there  till  the  appointment 
to  the  Westminster  Assembly  (1643).  On  being 
nominated  Master  of  Emmanuel  in  1645,  he  appears 
to  have  remained  in  London,  with  occasional  visits  to 
Cambridge,  till  1648,  as  he  was  chairman  of  a  com- 
mittee of  the  Assembly  for  drawing  up  the  Catechism 
and  other  dogmatic  decrees.     He  signs  an  admonition 


TUCKNEY'S  MASTERSHIP  97 

('  for  fighting  on  a  challenge')  on  October  22, 1646,  but 
on  July  26,  1648,  we  find  R.  Cud  worth  signing  one  as 
his  locum  tenens  (though  by  this  time  Master  of  Clare).* 
Later  in  this  year,  however,  he  removed  to  Cambridge 
with  his  family,  and  resided  at  Emmanuel  till  his 
election  to  St.  John's  (June,  1653).  An  ordinance 
was  also  passed  in  the  House  of  Lords,  March  30, 
1648,  for  appointing  him  Lady  Margaret  Professor  of 
Divinity.  But  the  professorship  was,  in  fact,  not  filled 
up  till  Holdsworth's  death  in  the  next  year,  when 
(September  3,  1649)  Tuckney,  as  Vice-Chancellor,  him- 
self admitted  Richard  Love  to  that  office.  As  Vice- 
Chancellor  also,  Tuckney  went  to  Kimbolton  (March  15) 
to  address  an  oration  to  the  Earl  of  Manchester  on 
his  election  as  Chancellor  in  the  place  of  the  Earl  of 
Holland,  beheaded  on  the  9th. 

Of  the  rest  of  his  vice-chancellorship  we  have  no 
record,  but  on  September  13, 1649,  Parliament  ordered  a 
Commission  to  issue  for  the  visitation  of  the  Universities, 
which  was  to  have  considerable  effect  upon  the  College, 
especially  in  consequence  of  a  subsequent  order  of 
Parliament  (October  12)  directing  the  Commissioners  to 
cause  all  Heads  of  Houses,  all  graduates  and  officers 
of  the  University  and  all  Fellows  to  take  the  *  Engage- 
ment,' which  was  in  these  words  :  '  I  do  declare  and 
promise  that  I  will  be  true  and  faithful  to  the  Common- 
wealth of  England,  as  the  same  is  now  established, 
without  a  King  or  House  of  Lords.'  No  one  hence- 
forth was  to  be  admitted  to  a  degree  or  office  in  the 

*  Cudworth,  though  appointed  Master  of  Clare,  could  not  get 
the  stipend  paid,  and  remained  Fellow  of  Emmanuel  till  presented 
to  North  Cadbury  in  1650. 

7 


98  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

University  before  he  had  subscribed  to  this  '  Engage- 
ment.'' 

This,  as  we  shall  see,  was  resisted  by  some  of  the 
Emmanuel  Fellows.  But  before  it  came  into  operation 
the  position  of  the  College  was  improved  by  another 
measure  of  the  Committee — the  formation  of  a  new 
cycle  for  the  nomination  of  Proctors,  Taxors,  and 
Scrutators,  on  the  petition  of  the  Fellows  of  Emmanuel 
and  Sidney,  whereby  these  two  Colleges  for  the  first 
time  took  their  turn  (five  times  in  fifty-one  years)  of 
making  these  nominations.  The  cycle  was  drawn  up  by 
a  syndicate  nominated  by  the  Senate  on  the  suggestion 
of  the  Committee,  and  was  confirmed  by  an  order  of  the 
Committee  on  August  20,  1650  (Hey wood  and  Wright, 
vol.  ii.,  p.  528).  Some  opposition  was  made  by  Trinity 
and  St.  John's,  but  was  overruled.  The  privilege  was 
continued  in  1663  upon  a  letter  from  the  King  dated 
August  3,  1661.  The  mastership  this  year  also  received 
an  augmentation  of  d^^lOO  a  year  as  its  share  of  the 
<£^2,000  voted  on  April  5,  1650,  for  '  the  increase  and 
maintenance  of  the  Masters  and  Heads  of  Houses."* 

The  imposition  of  the  '  Engagement ''  does  not  seem 
to  have  been  pressed  with  much  haste  or  regularity, 
and  some  officers  of  the  University  managed  to  satisfy 
the  Commissioners  in  other  ways.  At  the  beginning  of 
1650  (January  2)  an  order  of  the  House  was  made  for 
enforcing  it  with  greater  strictness.  Still,  there  was 
some  natural  hesitation  in  pressing  too  severely  upon 
men  otherwise  considered  worthy  of  their  places.  Thus, 
William  Sancroft  (afterwards  Master  and  Archbishop 

*  These  augmentations,  though  voted  by  Parliament,  do  not 
appear  to  have  been  paid,  or,  at  any  rate,  continued. 


THE  ENGAGEMENT  ENFORCED       99 

of  Canterbury)  seemed  for  a  time  likely  to  escape. 
There  was  so  much  delay  in  proceeding  against  him 
that  he  himself  felt  that  he  must  have  'some  secret 
friend  who  doth  me  good  offices  though  I  know  it  not ' 
(D'Oyly,  vol.  i.,  p.  53).  He  appears  to  have  been 
absent  from  Cambridge  from  ill-health  (after  his  father's 
death)  in  the  early  part  of  1650,  and  there  seemed  to 
be  some  chance  of  his  being  left  undisturbed.  A  friend 
in  St.  John's,  writing  to  him  on  March  15  in  that  year, 
tells  him  : 

'  The  news  from  London  says  your  business  is  treated, 
and  you  are  given  to  us  now  upon  a  surer  foundation  than 
we  could  possibly  hope  to  enjoy  you  ;  for,  when  your 
Fellowship  was  asked,  the  petitioners  were  answered  that 
they  might  as  well  think  to  remove  a  mountain  as  Mr. 
Sancroft.' 

As  late  as  November  17  he  is  able  to  tell  his  brother 
that  he  is  '  not  turned  out  yet,  though  many  have  been.' 
On  April  10,  1651,  a  peremptory  notice  from  the 
Committee  was  left  at  his  chambers  that,  unless  on  that 
day  month  he  made  it  appear  that  he  had  subscribed  the 
'  Engagement,'  the  Committee  would  nominate  another 
to  succeed  him.  Accordingly  on  April  22  he  tells  his 
brother  that  he  expects  to  be  finally  displaced  on  the 
Thursday  fortnight  from  that  date.  Still,  the  blow  was 
by  some  means  averted  for  some  weeks  longer ;  for  on 
May  24  he  writes  to  Bishop  Brownrigg  that  he  'was 
still  continued  in  his  opportunities '  in  Cambridge. 
But  a  letter  of  August  13  shows  that  the  expulsion 
had  then  taken  place  ;  and  in  the  College  orders 
beginning  October  29, 1651,  his  name  is  not  among  the 

7—2 


100  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

attestors,  while  the  names  of  three  new  Fellows  elected 
in  1651  appear  for  the  first  time — Carter,  Illingworth, 
and  Mosley.  The  first  of  these  had  been  brought  in 
from  Queens',  while  the  theological  position  of  the 
second  is  shown  by  the  fact  of  his  having  been  after- 
wards ejected  under  the  Bartholomew  Act  of  1662. 
Being  then  pressed  by  a  friend  to  continue  in  his 
Fellowship,  observing,  '  But  we  must  live,'  Illingworth 
answered,  '  Ay,  and  we  must  die." 

Thomas  Bramford,  on  whose  petition  the  peremptory 
notice  had  been  served  on  Sancroft  by  the  Committee, 
succeeded  to  the  vacancy  caused  by  his  deprivation,  and 
died  a  Fellow  of  the  College.  Another  Fellow  elected 
in  the  same  year — William  Crosse — became  a  distin- 
guished physician  and  a  F.R.S.  in  the  next  reign,  and 
founded  an  algebra  lecture. 

The  other  Fellows  appear  mostly  to  have  conformed  ; 
but  there  were  some  waverers,  as,  for  instance,  John 
Davenport,  who  at  first  refused  and  then  consented,  but 
appears  in  some  way  to  have  avoided  actually  signing, 
for  in  1654  he  was  ejected  for  not  having  taken  the 
'Engagement.'  The  College  does  not  seem  to  have 
been  otherwise  troubled  by  the  Committee  or  by  the 
Government.  The  numbers  were  fairly  well  maintained, 
and  the  order-book,  though  very  meagre,  shows  that 
domestic  affairs  were  following  the  usual  course.  We 
have  regulations  as  to  leases,  as  to  the  use  of  the 
tennis-court,  as  to  dividends  of  corn  and  wood  money, 
the  purchase  of  books  for  the  library,  and  the  fees 
to  be  paid  for  degrees. 

But  its  wave  of  prosperity  was  somewhat  on  the 
decline.    In  1653  Tuckiiey  became  Master  of  St.  John's, 


DILLINGHAM'S  MASTERSHIP  101 

and,  on  the  nomination  of  the  Chancellor,  Oliver  St. 
John,*  William  Dillingham  was  elected  as  his  suc- 
cessor. He  was  a  man  of  wide  literary  interests,  editor 
of  CulverwelPs  Light  of  Nature^  and  the  author  of 
many  other  tracts  and  editions,  as  well  as  of  Latin  and 
English  poems.  Towards  the  end  of  his  life  he  pub- 
lished biographies  of  Chaderton  and  Archbishop  Usher 
in  Latin.  In  his  ecclesiastical  views  he  was  a  moderate 
Puritan,  and  had  no  objection  to  liturgy  or  surplice. 
But  under  his  charge  the  College  showed  no  sign  of 
recuperation.  The  number  of  entries  averaged  only 
about  twenty-five,  and  a  College  order  regarding  the 
stipend  of  the  Head  Lecturer  and  the  fees  to  be  paid 
by  residents  mentions  that  the  proportion  of  sizars  to 
pensioners  was  increasing.  This  means  that  the  social 
status  of  the  members  of  the  College  was  on  the  decline, 
as  well  as  its  numbers — a  change  which  seems  to  answer 
to  that  which  was  passing  over  the  upper  and  middle 
classes  in  the  country  generally,  who  were  becoming 
alienated  from  the  extreme  Puritanism  and  the  political 
views  supposed  to  characterize  the  College.  Another 
cause  of  decline,  also,  was  the  dissension  which  reigned 
in  the  society  itself.  Thomas  Smith  of  Christ's,  writing  to 
San  croft  on  November  2,  1660,  says  :  '  In  your  College 
half  the  society  are  for  the  liturgy,  and  half  against  it, 
so  it  is  used  one  week,  and  the  directory  used  another.' 
Thus,  of  the  Fellows  elected  between  1655  and  the 
Restoration,  two,  II  ling  worth  and  Hulse — the  latter  a 
physician  attached  to  the  Orange  family — resigned  in 

*  Lord  Manchester  had  been  deprived  of  the  chancellorship  on 
November  27,  1651,  for  refusing  the  '  Engagement.'  The  Committee 
was  dissolved  on  April  21,  1652. 


102  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

1662  on  account  of  the  St.  Bartholomew  Act ;  but  two 
others,  Kidder  and  Bright,  obtained  high  Church  prefer- 
ment. The  former,  indeed,  was  ejected  from  Stand- 
ground  for  refusing  'to  subscribe  to  a  prayer-book 
which  he  had  never  seen ' ;  but  he  always  asserted  that  he 
had  '  never  taken  either  Covenant  or  Engagement,  and 
was  quite  satisfied  in  Episcopacy  and  with  a  liturgy.'  He 
became  Bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells  in  1691,  but  retained 
sufficient  remains  of  his  Puritanism  to  excite  the  dislike 
of  his  Chapter  and  clergy,  especially  of  those  who  were 
High  Church.  He  and  his  wife  were  killed  in  their 
bed  by  a  fall  of  a  stack  of  chimneys  in  the  palace  at 
Wells  in  the  great  storm  of  November  26, 1703.  Bright 
became  Dean  of  St.  Asaph. 

Dillingham  himself,  though  deprived  in  1662  for 
refusing  to  declare  the  Solemn  League  and  Covenant  an 
unlawful  oath,  not  binding  on  those  who  had  voluntarily 
taken  it,  was  not  extreme  in  his  opinions  nor  specially 
obnoxious  to  the  opposite  party.  He  was  Vice-Chancel  lor 
in  1660,  and  though  he  was  prevented  by  illness  from 
heading  the  deputation  which,  on  June  3,  offered  their 
congratulations  to  the  King  at  Westminster,  he  contri- 
buted a  very  loyal  introduction  to  the  collection  of  Latin 
poems  called  aojoTpa,  published  by  the  University  to 
celebrate  the  Restoration.  But  he  was  said  to  be  more 
interested  in  his  private  studies  and  literary  employ- 
ments than  in  the  government  of  the  College.  Cer- 
tainly the  entrances  were  low  during  his  mastership, 
and  the  number  of '  admonitions '  (12)  is  rather  above 
the  average,  as  though  the  men  were  somewhat  out  of 
hand.  They  are  mostly  for  'drinking  in  alehouses," 
Mhere  the  delinquents  are   sometimes  'taken   by  the 


DILLTNGHAM^S  MASTERSHIP  103 

Vice-Chancellor,"'  or  for  neglecting  their  studies  or  their 
Tutor's  prayers.  Two  men  are  admonished  '  for  gross 
misdemeanours  tending  to  the  dishonour  of  God  and 
the  discredit  of  the  College.**  The  Birdbolt  tavern 
then,  as  now,*  faced  the  College,  for  in  1656  two  men 
are  admonished  'for  frequenting  the  bird-bolt,  and 
there  drinking  and  singing/  Two  others  are  also 
admonished  '  for  disorderly  carriage  in  sitting  up  drink- 
ing till  three  in  the  morning,  and  causing  disturbances 
in  the  College,**  and  another  for  '  robbing  the  fellows' 
orchard.'  Neglect  of  studies  is  frequently  mentioned 
in  conjunction  with  these  offences,  and  a  College  order 
in  1656  seems  to  imply  that  '  scholastic  exercises ' — 
holding  the  place  somewhat  of  College  examinations — 
were  apt  to  be  omitted  or  avoided. 

But  if  Dillingham  was  not  a  very  energetic  Master, 
he  was  greatly  attached  to  the  College  and  to  University 
life,  and  it  is  much  to  the  credit  of  his  honesty  that  he 
quitted  it  on  conscientious  grounds  in  1662.  He  retired 
first  to  Oundle,  near  his  native  village  of  Ban  well  All 
Saints,  where  he  lived  in  retirement  for  ten  years.  In 
1673,  however, he  married  a  widow,  Mary  Toller,  who  had 
good  means  and  seven  children ;  and  then  being  persuaded 
to  conform,  he  was  presented  to  the  living  of  Odell  or 
Woodhill  in  Bedfordshire,  where  he  died  in  November, 
1689.  He  spent  these  last  years  of  his  life  in  literary 
employments,  and  kept  up  throughout  a  most  affec- 
tionate correspondence  with  Sancroft,  who  had  been  his 
'  chamber-fellow '  as  an  undergraduate,  and  succeeded 
him  in  the  mastership.     From  time  to  time  he  visited 

*  As  this  book  is  passing  through  the  press  the  old  hostel  is  in 
the  process  of  demolition. 


104  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

the  College,  and  took  much  interest  in  the  conversion 
of  the  old  chapel  into  the  library.  His  letter  to  San- 
croft  just  after  the  latter^s  election  to  mastership,  which 
he  had  been  obliged  to  vacate  himself,  is  worth  reading. 
It  shows,  not  only  his  own  amiability,  but  how  these 
frequent  changes  and  confiscations  were  softened  to  the 
sufferers  by  the  personal  kindness  and  respect  which 
were  not  impaired  by  wide  differences  in  politics  or 
theology.     It  is  dated  '  Oundle,  22  Dec.  1662 ' : 

'  Honoured  Sir, 

'Late  the  last  night  I  received  your  kind  letter 
which  within  24  howers  over-tooke  the  first  intimation  I 
received  of  your  being  in  the  South.  I  have  sent  my 
servant  to  cleare  the  lower  study  for  your  present  use^ 
according  as  you  desire,  untill  such  time  as  I  can  waite  on 
you  myselfe,  which  I  intend  (God  willing)  presently  after 
the  twelve  dayes  are  ended,  by  which  time  I  hope  you 
may  be  more  at  leisure,  the  wayes  more  passable,  and 
myself  better  accommodated  with  health  (than  at  present) 
for  the  undertaking  of  such  a  journy.  I  have  sent  here- 
with my  cope,  and  scarlet  gown,  and  scarlet  hood,  and  my 
surplice,  about  which  I  shall  conferre  with  you  when  we 
meet,  and  which  you  may  please  freely  to  make  use  of  for 
your  present  occasions.  Give  me  leive  to  suggest  one  thing 
onely  at  present,  wherein  I  think  the  Colledge  may  be  a 
little  concerned  ;  and  it  is  in  behalf  of  those  who  are 
turned  out  of  the  College  livings  now  to  be  disposed  of. 
Mr.  Cradock  his  expense  of  <£lOO  this  last  yeare  in 
settling  the  title  of  North  Cadbury  (which  he  effected 
above  the  hopes  of  his  friends)  deserves  that  he  should  be 
kindly  treated  by  him  that  shall  succeed  him ;  and  poore 
Mr.  Chadwick,  who  came  to  Winsford  Regis  (left  much 
dilapidated  by  Mr.  Ward  and  afterwards  during  Mr.  Foster's 
absence),  whereon  he  hath  expended  neer  ^60  as  I  under- 


THE  RESTORATION  105 

stand,  deserves  commiseration.  Sir,  I  make  bold  only  to 
suggest  these  things  to  you  as  haveing  had  good  reason 
formerly  to  take  notice  of  them,  but  leaving  them  to  your 
own  consideration.  Sir,  my  prayers  are  and  shalbe  for  the 
blessing  of  God  upon  yourselfe  and  the  Colledge,  ccetera 
coram. 

'  Your  affectionate  friend  and  servant, 

'  William  Dillingham.' 

Dillingham'^s  mastership  came  to  an  end  on  August  24, 
and  on  the  31st  William  San  croft  was  elected.  It 
would  not  be  easy  for  a  dispossessed  man  to  write  to 
his  successor  with  more  magnanimous  kindness  or  with 
better  temper. 

In  this  period  Emmanuel  produced  another  man  who 
was  destined  to  play  a  somewhat  conspicuous  part  in  the 
Government  of  the  Restoration.  On  August  21,  1644, 
William  Temple  was  entered  on  the  College  books  as 
a  Fellow-commoner.  He  was  then  sixteen  years  old, 
and  does  not  appear  to  have  taken  a  degree,  though  his 
presentation  in  after  years  of  some  of  his  works  to  the 
College  library  testifies  to  his  kindly  remembrance  of 
his  residence  within  its  walls.  His  scheme  for  a  Cabinet 
Government  within  the  Privy  Council  was  not  imme- 
diately successful,  though  it  anticipated  in  a  great 
degree  what  afterwards  came  into  existence.  His 
embassies  in  Holland  and  his  services  in  forming  the 
Triple  Alliance  in  1668,  his  retirement  to  Sheen,  his 
friendship  with  William  III.  (whose  marriage  with  the 
Princess  Mary  he  had  been  greatly  instrumental  in 
securing),  are  matters  of  history.  His  literary  essays 
once  enjoyed  a  great  reputation,  and  he  was  regarded 
as  a  man  of  considerable  learning.  But  he  lost  reputa- 
tion by  engaging  in  the  controversy  as  to  the  rival 


106  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

merits  of  ancient  and  modern  learning,  and  in  the 
battle  that  raged  between  Bentley  and  Boyle  as  to  the 
genuineness  of  the  letters  of  Phalaris.  The  facts  of 
most  abiding  interest  in  his  career  are  his  marriage  with 
Dorothy  Osborae,  whose  charming  letters  to  him  have 
been  made  public  in  recent  years,  and  his  entertainment 
of  Swift  as  his  secretary  and  amanuensis.  It  is  this  circum- 
stance, perhaps,  which  made  Swift  send  his  Gulliver  to 
Emmanuel.  There  is  an  interesting  portrait  of  him  in 
the  Master's  Lodge.     He  died  in  1699. 

In  the  same  year  as  Temple  (1644)  was  entered 
Francis  Pemberton,  who,  acting  quietly  as  a  barrister 
under  the  Commonwealth,  rose  to  be  Chief  Justice  in  the 
reign  of  Charles  II.  (1681),  and,  being  deposed  for  lack 
of  zeal  in  the  case  of  Lord  W.  Russell,  acted  as  counsel 
for  the  seven  Bishops,  and  thus  helped  to  bring  on  the 
Revolution.     His  portrait  also  is  in  the  gallery. 

An  instance  of  Dillingham's  activity  in  the  promo- 
tion of  learning  is  his  action  in  regard  to  Gataker's 
edition  of  Marcus  Antoninus — Greek  text  and  Latin 
translation.  Obtaining  the  MS.  of  the  work  from 
Gataker,  he  induced  the  College  to  join  with  St.  John's, 
Clare,  and  Sidney  in  bearing  the  expense  of  its  pro- 
duction (1652),  and  he  himself  corrected  the  proofs. 

'When  the  impression  was  finished/  says  his  son,  'he 
layd  all  the  books  in  quires  in  a  little  room  on  the  right 
hand  in  the  entry,  through  which  we  go  from  the  Quad- 
rangle into  Wolfenden's  Court  and  sold  them  out  to  the 
booksellers.  ...  I  remember  very  well  my  father  told 
me  that  when  he  had  sold  them  the  College  was  not  only 
reimbursed  their  money,  but  had  a  dividend  of  20  broad 
pieces  amongst  their  overplus'  {Letter  from  Thomas  Dilling- 
ham, in  the  Treasury,  dated  February  11,  1694-5). 


CHAPTER  VI 

THE  EESTORATION  CHANGES:  MASTERSHIPS  OF 
WILLIAM  SANCROFT  (1662-1665),  JOHN  BRETON 
(1665-1675),  THOMAS  HOLBECH  (1675-1680)  AND 
JOHN  BALDERSTON  (1680-1719) 

The  Restoration  was  a  turning-point  in  the  history  of 
the  College.  It  ceased  to  draw  any  advantage  from  its 
special  position  as  the  favoured  nursing-ground  for 
ministers  of  a  triumphant  sect.  What  was  once  its 
chief,  claim  to  notice,  and  the  chief  cause  of  its  success, 
now  became  a  source  of  weakness  ;  and  it  was  the 
principal  object  of  those  under  whose  management  it 
now  fell  to  do  away  with  the  marks  of  singularity  which 
had  distinguished  it,  and  to  make  it  the  home  of  sound 
loyalty  and  Churchmanship.  The  success  of  this  policy 
condemned  it  to  a  long  period  of  comparative  insignifi- 
cance, for  its  endowments  were  not  sufficient  to  attract 
able  men ;  and  though  it  did  not  lose  its  connexion  in 
the  country  entirely,  it  soon  occupied  a  much  more 
humble  position,  both  in  numbers  and  prestige.  The 
eclipse  was  temporary,  but  it  was  for  the  time  decided. 
The  royal  dispensation  from  the  statute  which  ended 
Fellowships  at  the  standing  of  D.D.,  revoked  by  the 

107 


108  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

Long  Parliament,  was  renewed  by  the  restored  monarchy, 
and  Emmanuel  thus  definitely  abandoned  the  cherished 
design  of  its  founder — that  its  Fellows  should  not  regard 
it  as  a  perpetual  provision  for  life,  but  as  a  stepping- 
stone  to  the  active  career  of  a  minister  of  the  Church. 
It  became  just  like  other  Colleges,  and  for  a  time  had 
neither  the  means  nor  the  right  sort  of  prestige  to  hold 
its  own. 

William  Sancroft  was  born  at  Fressingfield,  Suffolk, 
on  January  3,  1617,  entered  Emmanuel  in  July,  1634, 
and  was  elected  a  Fellow  in  1642.  The  son  of  a 
country  gentleman  of  moderate  means,  but  of  staunch 
loyalty,  he  had  all  along  warmly  embraced  the  side  of 
the  King.  His  sentiments  may  be  gathered  from  his 
letters  to  his  father.  On  January  11,  1648-49,  he 
writes : 

'  Things  grow  worse  and  worse  every  day  ;  and  there  is 
nothing  left  for  the  King  and  his  party  in  this  world  but 
the  glory  of  suffering  well  and  in  a  good  cause,  which 
I  hope  nor  devils  nor  men  will  be  able  to  deprive 
them  of.' 

And  on  February  10  in  the  same  year  : 

'  What  all  men  sadly  presaged,  when  I  wrote  last,  all 
good  men  now  inconsolably  lament.  The  black  act  is 
done,  which  all  the  world  wonders  at,  and  which  an  age 
cannot  expiate.' 

After  his  ejection  in  1651,  he  divided  his  time  till 
the  Restoration  between  residence  with  his  elder  brother 
at  Fressingfield,  visits  to  friends,  and  foreign  travel. 
He  was  at  Rome  when  news  reached  him  of  the  coming 
change,  and,  hurrying  home,  he  was  immediately  made 


SANCROFT^S  MASTERSHIP  109 

one  of  the  Royal  Chaplains  and  a  Prebendary  of 
Durham.  The  College  had  meanwhile  entirely  changed, 
and  he  supposed  himself  forgotten  in  it.  He  wais 
therefore  surprised  at  being  elected,  on  August  30, 
1662,  to  succeed  Dillingham  as  Master.  The  suggestion 
had  probably  come  from  Lord  Manchester,  who  was 
restored  to  the  chancellorship  on  May  26, 1660.  At  any 
rate,  it  was  strongly  approved  by  the  advisers  of  the  King, 
and  a  royal  warrant  was  obtained  relieving  him  from 
the  amount  of  residence  required  by  the  statutes,  thus 
enabling  him  to  fulfil  his  duties  as  one  of  the  Royal 
Chaplains,  as  well  as  Rector  of  Houghton-le-Spring  and 
Canon  of  Durham.  It  was  only  on  this  condition  that 
he  had  accepted  the  mastership;  for  his  taste  or  his 
ambition  made  him  cling  to  the  offices  which  brought 
him  to  London  and  the  centre  of  affairs.  His  view  of 
the  state  of  things  in  the  College  is  best  seen  in  the 
following  letter  to  his  'ever-honoured  tutor,"*  Wright 
(p.  10),  at  Thurcaston,  the  original  of  which  is  in  the 
College  treasury : 

*  Beyond  all  my  expectation  I  am  come  back  to  the 
college,  where  I  knew  nobody  at  all,  my  acquaintance 
being  wholly  worn  out,  or  rather,  I  am  come  into  a  new 
college,  quite  another  thing  from  what  I,  and  much  more 
what  you,  left  it  'Tis  true,  in  some  regards  the  change 
is  such  that  I  cannot  but  thank  God  for  it :  there  being 
neither  faction  amongst  us,  nor  disaffection  to  the  govern- 
ment of  Church  or  State,  but  a  general  outward  conformity 
to  what  is  established  by  law,  and,  I  hope,  true  principles  of 
duty  and  obedience  deep  laid  within,  and  a  cheerful  readi- 
ness to  take  off  all  the  instances  of  that  former  singularity 
which  rendered  us  heretofore  so  unhappily  remarkable. 


110  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

'Tis  with  regret  and  reluctancy  that  I  turn  my  eye 
upon  our  defects  and  our  infeUcities  ;  and  I  had  rather  make 
them  the  matter  of  a  free  conference,  than  bring  them 
upon  paper ;  yet  into  your  bosom.  Sir,  I  shall,  I  hope,  have 
leave  to  pour  them,  and  assure  myself  that,  as  few  will 
apprehend  them  so  well  as  you,  none  is  able  to  advise  more 
apt  and  proper  remedies. 

'  I  complain  not  that  the  throng  is  not  so  great  about  us 
as  it  was  (especially  reflecting  what  it  was  that  drew  the 
many  hither).  Blessed  is  the  barren  and  miscarrying 
womb,  rather  than  she  that  is  always  teeming  and  drawing 
forth  her  breasts  to  the  children  of  disobedience.  May  we 
be  desert  and  wilderness  all  over,  rather  than  send  forth 
such  unhappy  swarms  and  colonies,  as  we  did  in  this  age 
of  sorrow  ;  which  were  so  many  and  so  numerous  that  the 
stock  is  decayed  at  home,  and  we  have  none  in  the  college 
capable  of  succeeding  to  our  vacant  fellowships.  By  the 
end  of  this  week  I  shall  have  elected,  since  I  returned 
hither,  seven  fellows,  but  most  of  them  from  abroad ;  so 
that  half  the  society  are  foreigners ;  and  yet  worse  :  the 
eminent  elsewhere  will  not  be  wooed  to  look  towards  us, 
having  fairer  invitations  at  home  :  they  come  sooner  by 
two  years  (in  standing,  and  many  in  age)  to  their  fellow- 
ships, than  we ;  and  without  rigid  examen,  which  frights 
some  from  us  ;  they  keep  them  longer  (being  perpetuities) 
than  we  ours,  which  are  thought  to  be  but  for  a  term ;  and 
which  is  most  considerable,  ours,  while  they  have  them, 
are  not  so  well  worth  their  owning ;  the  statutable  allow- 
ance being  so  miserably  scant,  that  if  the  crowd  fail  us,  (as 
now  it  doth,)  you  know  very  well.  Sir,  they  afford  not  a 
competent  subsistence :  so  that  we  are  glad  to  accept  of 
such  as  tender  themselves ;  and  forced  to  serve  ourselves 
of  his  Majesty's  grace  and  favour,  for  the  removing  of  some 
esser  incapacities  (of  age  or  country)  in  a  person  other- 


SANCROFT'S  MASTERSHIP  111 

wise  fitly  qualified  for  the  main  ;  and  glad  to  be  so  eased, 
where  our  over-rigorous  statutes  pinch  us.  And  then  for 
scholarships,  they  are  so  many,  and  so  few  to  fill  them, 
that  there  is  never  any  competition ;  the  golden  spur  of 
emulation  is  lost,  and  few  will  study  hard  enough  to  obtain 
that  to  which  a  little  proportion  of  learning  will  bring 
them. 

'  It  would  grieve  you  to  hear  one  of  the  public  examens ; 
the  Hebrew  and  Greek  learning  being  out  of  fashion  every- 
where, and  especially  in  the  other  colleges,  where  we  are 
forced  to  seek  our  candidates  for  fellowships ;  and  the  ' 
rational  learning  they  pretend  to  being  neither  the  old 
philosophy,  nor  steadily  any  one  of  the  new.  In  fine, 
though  I  must  do  the  present  society  right,  and  say,  that 
divers  of  them  are  very  good  scholars,  and  orthodox  (I 
believe)  and  dutiful  both  to  King  and  Church ;  yet 
methinks  I  find  not  that  old  genius  and  spirit  of  learning 
generally  in  the  college  that  made  it  once  so  deservedly 
famous  ;  nor  shall  I  hope  to  retrieve  it  any  way  sooner, 
than  by  your  directions  who  lived  here  in  the  most 
flourishing  times  of  it. 

'  For  my  part,  after  many  sad  thoughts  spent  in  this 
argument,  I  am  come  to  a  persuasion,  (which  I  shall  in 
confidence  acquaint  you  with,  it  not  being  fit  for  every  ear,) 
that  'tis  impossible  for  this  college  ever  to  flourish  again 
(unless  by  the  old  arts,  and  so  I  had  rather  see  it  sink  to 
the  ground),  till  the  fellowships  and  scholarships  be  made 
competent  and  liberal  allowances,  either  by  increase  of  our 
revenue,  or  by  sinking  some  of  the  number  into  the  rest ; 
and  (ut  adhuc  majora  canamus)  till  the  body  of  our  statutes 
be  changed,  which,  if  it  may  not  be  done,  I  see  not  but  we 
are  remediless.  Yet  these  are  the  last  refuges,  and  we 
will  not  be  wanting  to  ourselves  in  attempting  all  other 
methods. 


112  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

'  I  am  clearly  convinced  of  what  you  wisely  and  solidly 
suggest  concerning  the  pretended  statute  (for  truly  I 
cannot  look  upon  it  as  of  the  same  authority  with  the  rest) 
de  mora  sociorum.  Something  I  had  done  in  it  before  you 
wrote.  The  King's  suspension  of  that  statute  is,  for  ought 
I  can  learn,  lost  during  these  last  times  ;  you  will  easily 
guess  how.  But  1  have  recovered  both  the  first  draught  of 
it  under  my  Lord  of  Ely's  own  hand,  (whom  the  King 
appointed  to  pen  it,)  and  a  copy  of  it  which  I  found 
amongst  my  uncle  Dr.  Bancroft's  papers,  and  have  pre- 
served it  ever  since.  If  I  cannot  inquire  out  the  original, 
I  will,  if  I  live,  get  it  to  pass  the  seal  once  more  ;  to 
facilitate  which,  I  desire,  Sir,  you  would  furnish  me  with 
your  copy,  if  you  have  one,  and  with  what  memory  you 
have  besides  concerning  that  whole  affair. 

'  I  am  now  in  pursuit  of  Dr.  Holdsworth's  numerous 
library  ;  and  though  the  University  has  long  since  swallowed 
it  in  a  general  expectation,  yet,  having  lately  got  a  sight 
of  his  private  directions  to  his  executors,  and  consulted 
both  lawyers  and  several  of  my  lords  the  Bishops,  and  the 
executors  themselves  thereupon,  I  doubt  not  that  all  the 
right  will  prove  to  be  ours  :  "  provided  that  we  erect  a  case 
or  room  fit  to  receive  them,"  the  condition  upon  which  he 
gives  them  us.  For  the  performance  whereof,  and  also 
for  the  removing  that  great  mark  of  singularity,  which  all 
the  world  so  talks  of,  in  the  unusual  prospect  and  dress  of 
the  chapel  (different  from  that  of  other  colleges),  I  have 
it  in  design  to  make  both  a  new  library  and  chapel  too  ; 
and,  as  for  the  manner  of  contriving  both,  I  would  gladly 
receive  your  particular  opinion ;  so  I  must  be  forced 
to  beg  the  charitable  and  liberal  assistance  of  all  that 
have  been  members  of  it,  and  yours.  Sir,  especially,  who 
wert  once  so  great  an  ornament  and  now  so  true  a  lover 
of  it.' 


SANCROFT'S  MASTERSHIP  113 

Sancroft  did  not  remain  long  Master.  His  nomina- 
tion to  the  deanery  of  York  (January  3,  1664)  does 
not  appear  to  have  involved  his  resignation ;  but  when, 
on  November  10  in  the  same  year,  he  was  named  Dean 
of  St.  Paul's,  he  made  up  his  mind  to  quit  Cambridge. 
His  formal  resignation  is  entered  in  the  order-book, 
and  dated  April  26,  1665.  On  May  4  in  the  same 
year  a  royal  mandate  was  issued  to  the  Fellows  to  elect 
Dr.  John  Breton,  a  Prebend  of  Worcester,  and  to  relieve 
him  from  the  residence  enjoined  by  statute  and  the  dis- 
abilities as  to  holding  Church  preferments.  Sancroft's 
mastership  therefore  only  extended  over  two  years  and 
nine  months.  We  have  little  more  record  of  what  he  did 
as  Master.  But  the  reference  in  the  above  letter  to  his 
plan  for  a  new  library  and  chapel  shows  that  he  at  once 
conceived  the  change  (already  described  in  Chapter  I.) 
which  brought  our  front  Court  to  wear  its  present 
appearance.  As  Dean  of  St.  Paul's  he  was  in  constant 
intercourse  with  Sir  Christopher  Wren,  both  before  and 
after  the  Great  Fire,  and  by  1666  he  had  formed  the 
plan  of  the  new  chapel,  to  which  he  contributed  the 
then  large  sum  of  ^600.  The  conversion  of  the  old 
chapel  into  a  library  seems  to  have  been  an  after- 
thought. A  letter  from  Dillingham  to  him,  dated 
July  15,  1678,  speaks  of  it  as  even  then  only  in  con- 
templation. 

These  schemes,  though  conceived  while  he  was  Master, 
were  to  be  carried  out  by  Sancroft's  successors.  His 
practical  activity  as  Master  seems  principally  to  have  been 
in  securing  the  election  of  such  Fellows  as  would  bring 
the  College  into  line  with  the  ecclesiastical  recoil  which 
was  spreading  all  over  the  country.     One  method  of 

8 


114  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

doing  this  was  to  secure  royal  mandates  for  elections. 
Thus,  on  September  2,  1662,  Edward  Maydwell  (or 
Maideville)  is  recommended  by  mandate;  on  Decem- 
ber 19, Matthew  Brown;  on  the  24th,  Ralph  Hancock; 
on  June  10, 1663,  Henry  Miles ;  and,  finally,  John  Breton 
is  recommended  for  the  mastership  by  a  mandate  dated 
May  4,  1665.  And  the  submissiveness  of  the  Fellows 
to  this  exercise  of  royal  authority  is  shown  by  a  letter 
of  R.  Alfounder  (elected  1655)  to  Sancroft : 

'Sir, 

'  On  Thursday  last  I  came  to  Cambridge,  where  I 
met  with  your  unexpected  and  (with  your  pardon)  un- 
welcome resignation.  But  there  was  not  any  interregnum, 
for  at  the  same  time  we  received  and  obeyed  his  Majesty's 
commands  for  a  successor.  Sir,  we  are  all,  I  think,  very 
well  satisfied  with  the  royal  choice  for  us,  and  dare  not 
expect  anything  but  good  from  it.  This  I  think  is  the 
only  way  to  preserve  unity  among  us,  and  to  satisfy  our- 
selves and  other  our  friends  abroad.  It  is  easier  to  obey 
than  to  chuse.  .  .  .  Trinity  Evening,  l665.' 

In  the  second  year  of  Sancroft"'s  mastership  there  was 
a  slight  rise  in  the  number  of  admissions ;  but  there 
was  a  great  drop  under  his  successor,  partly,  no  doubt, 
on  account  of  the  plague.  The  first  College  order 
signed  by  Breton  (August  10,  1665)  was  for  the  dis- 
persal of  the  College  and  relieving  the  Fellows  from  the 
necessity  of  residing,  because  '  it  hath  pleased  Almighty 
God  in  his  just  severity  to  visit  this  towne  of  Cambridge 
with  the  plague  of  pestilence.'  This  is  renewed  on 
October  7,  and  even  on  January  12  next  the  College  is 
but  half  open.  In  an  order  of  the  latter  date  it  is  said 
that  Cambridge  is  'not  yet  free  nor  clear  from  the 


BRETON^S  MASTERSHIP  115 

infection  of  the  plague  of  pestilence,  though  the  danger, 
through  God's  blessing,  is  not  so  great  as  formerly.' 
The  gates  are  to  be  kept  shut,  and  students  are  only  to 
be  admitted  who  bring  good  testimonials  of  not  coming 
from  infected  places.  Five  days  later  another  order 
mentions  that  the  plague  has  reappeared  in  Cambridge, 
and  leave  is  given  to  all  to  depart.  When  this  source 
of  terror,  however,  had  disappeared,  the  numbers  went 
up  again,  and  were  maintained  at  a  good  average 
(about  forty)  throughout  Breton's  mastership.  Sancroft 
appears  to  have  found  discipline  relaxed,  and  in  his 
short  mastership — in  the  course  of  which  he  is  frequently 
represented  by  Alfounder  as  locum  tenens — there  are  the 
unusual  number  of  eight  admonitions  :  for  drunkenness, 
frequenting  houses  of  evil  note,  climbing  over  the 
College  wall,  and  in  three  instances  for  stealing  books. 
Two  of  these  admonitions  are  followed  by  expulsion. 
We  hear,  too,  for  the  first  time  of  public  '  recantation ' 
in  the  hall  being  enforced — still  farther  emphasized 
under  Breton  (June  26,  1667)  by  the  culprit  'openly 
confessing  his  faults  in  presence  of  the  whole  College  at 
dinner-time,  and  asking  forgiveness  upon  his  knees  in 
the  hall.'  The  report  of  Milton  having  been  whipped 
at  Christ's  has  often  been  scouted ;  but  an  instance 
occurs  in  the  admonition-book  under  Breton  (April  28, 
1669).  Of  two  men  it  is  said :  '  Whilst  they  were 
undergraduates  they  were  whipped  in  the  butterys  for 
foul  miscarriage,  and  continuing  unreclaimed  they  were 
this  day  expelled  the  College.'  It  must  be  remembered 
that  many  of  the  students  entered  at  thirteen  or  fourteen 
years  of  age,  and  the  College,  as  far  as  discipline  was 
concerned,  must  have  been  like  a  public  school.     There 

8—2 


116  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

are  only  three  admonitions  in  Breton's  ten   years  of 
mastership. 

The  great  subject  of  College  interest  during  his  time 
was  the  building  of  the  new  chapel.  The  plans,  obtained 
from  Christopher  Wren  by  Sancroft,  reached  the  Master 
and  Fellows  in  September,  1667,  and  on  the  24th  of  that 
month  Breton  writes  to  Sancroft  to  say  that  they 
are  much  pleased  with  them,  but  that  they  desired  it 
to  be  raised  to  a  greater  height,  and  that  the  side- 
windows  should  be  enlarged,  as  there  is  to  be  no  east 
window.  The  actual  work  was  begun  early  in  1668, 
and  Breton  went  in  person  into  Northamptonshire  to 
sign  a  contract  for  a  supply  of  stone.  In  March  of 
that  year  the  old  wall,  which  then  stood  where  the  east 
cloisters  now  are,  was  pulled  down.  Forty  large  trees 
were  sent  by  the  Earl  of  Westmorland,  and  were 
brought  by  water  from  Apthorp  to  Barnwell  Dock. 
It  was  built  slowly :  the  framing  of  the  roof  was  not 
begun  till  1670,  and  the  lead  not  placed  upon  it  till 
1671.  The  ceiling  was  plastered  in  1672,  and  then  the 
c£3,000  which  had  been  subscribed  were  exhausted. 
Nor  was  it  finished  at  Breton's  death  in  1675.  But  his 
successor,  Thomas  Holbech,  had  subscribed  liberally  in 
the  first  instance,  and  immediately  after  his  election 
exerted  himself  to  bring  it  to  completion.  In  1676 
and  1677  contracts  were  made  for  glazing,  paving,  and 
wainscotting,  and  for  altar  furniture.  At  length,  on 
September  29,  1677,  it  was  consecrated  by  Gunning, 
Bishop  of  Ely.  The  cost  of  these  internal  fittings  had 
been  defrayed  by  Sancroft  in  addition  to  his  original 
contribution.  He  was  earnestly  invited  to  the  conse- 
cration ceremony,  but  whether  he  was  present  is  not 


HOLBECH'S  MASTERSHIP  117 

known.  He  was  consecrated  Archbishop  early  in  the 
next  year  (January  27,  16*78),  and  on  May  4  of  that 
year  the  thanks  of  the  Master  and  Fellows  were  sent  to 
him  in  a  formal  Latin  letter  for  his  benefactions — 

'  quibus  consummatissimum  Collegii  nostri  Sacellum,  quibus 
ornatissimum  eius  altare,  augustissimum  et  quam  maxime  decorum 
effecisti;  atque  adeo  publicum  Dei  cuUum  [quod  summis  tibi  erat 
in  votis)  omnibus  gratiorem  reddidisti.'-^ 

In  July,  1678,  Dillingham,  the  ejected  Master,  visited 
the  College  and  wrote  to  Sancroft  on  the  scheme  for 
converting  the  old  chapel  into  a  library,  to  which 
Holbech  devoted  the  two  remaining  years  of  his  life. 
From  a  poem  of  Joshua  Barnes  it  seems  doubtful 
whether  the  change  was  actually  accomplished  in  the 
lifetime  of  Holbech.  Barnes  evidently  refers  to  his 
dangerous  state  of  health,  and  asserts  that  he  cannot  die 
until  he  has  added  to  his  work  on  the  new  chapel  the 
completion  of  the  new  library  : 

'  'Tis  he  shall  build  the  Muses'  fane. 
Where  now  they  do  Heaven's  dreadful  power  adore 

Learning  shall  flourish  there  again 
r  the  fertile  ground  where  Piety  grew  before.* 

Towards  the  end  of  his  mastership  a  new  lectureship 
in  Greek  was  founded  by  Dr.  Sudbury,  Dean  of  Durham. 
The  first  lecturer  appointed  was  William  Mackarness  in 
1677,  apparently  with  some  difficulty.  It  required 
three  at  least  of  the  four  seniors  to  vote  for  him,  but 
two  (Balderston  and  Lee)  only  voted  'conditionally"*; 
the   other   votes   were   the   Master,   one   P^ellow,   and 

*  The  organ  was  added  in  1682,  a  Fellow-commoner,  Burch 
Hethersall,  giving  ;^i20. 


118  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

Mackarness  himself.  Mackarness  was  nominated  to 
Standground  in  1679,  but  apparently  died  early  in  the 
following  year  in  debt  to  the  College.  A  College  order 
of  April  20,  1680,  directs  his  Fellowship  not  to  be 
filled  up  'to  help  to  repaire  an  insigiie  detrimentum, 
which  the  College  suffered  by  the  death  of  Mr. 
Mackarness." 

In  November  of  the  same  year  (1680)  Holbech  died, 
and  was  succeeded  by  John  Balderston,  who  was  Master 
for  nearly  thirty-nine  years  {ob,  August,  1719).  He  was 
a  Huntingdonshire  man,  had  been  Fellow  since  1665, 
and  had  served  as  lecturer  and  in  other  College  offices. 
His  mastership,  though  long,  does  not  appear  to  have 
been  either  remarkable  or  very  successful.  The  entrances 
went  down  ominously,  once  (1711)  being  as  low  as 
seven,  and  seldom  being  more  than  seventeen  or  twenty. 
The  Revolution  of  1688  does  not  appear  to  have  had 
much  effect  upon  the  College,  except  in  putting  an  end 
to  the  appointment  of  Fellows  by  royal  mandate,  three 
of  the  five  elected  during  the  reign  of  James  IL  having 
been  thus  '  recommended  **  to  the  College.  This  led  to  a 
curious  interpretation  of  the  statute  forbidding  the 
election  of  more  than  one  Fellow  from  any  one  county. 
In  1687  John  Browne  of  Kent,  afterwards  Rector  of 
Wallington  and  a  benefactor,  was  made  Fellow  by 
royal  mandate.  In  1690  one  John  Sidey,  also  of  Kent, 
was  regarded  by  the  society  as  a  proper  person  to  elect. 
An  order — signed  on  September  27  by  seven  Fellows, 
including  Browne,  though  without  the  Master — decided 
that  the  county  of  a  Fellow  appointed  by  royal  mandate 
did  not  prevent  the  election  of  a  Fellow  from  the  same 
county.     Browne  otherwise  does  not  appear   to   have 


BALDERSTON^S  MASTERSttiP  119 

enjoyed  the  favour  of  the  College.  His  living  was  one  of 
those  of  which  the  Master,  and  not  the  society,  had  the 
presentation,  but  in  1711  the  more  valuable  living  of 
North  Cadbury  had  fallen  vacant  and  a  majority  of  the 
Fellows  bestowed  it  upon  William  Piers,  passing  over 
his  senior,  Browne,  who  entered  a  protest  in  the  order- 
book,  dated  January  20,  1711,  on  the  grounds  that 

'it  was  done  without  any  reason  alleged  against  Mr. 
Browne,  though  often  by  him  demanded ;  and  contrary  to 
the  custom  and  practise  of  y®  College  in  such  cases  ever 
since  the  Restoration ;  and,  as  he  conceives,  to  the  true 
intent  and  design  of  the  Fourth  Statute  of  the  College, 
intituled  De  probis  proeferendis,  etc' 

The  order  is  cancelled  by  some  pen,  and  the  signature 
of  Browne  elaborately  concealed  by  flourishes,  but  the 
appointment  of  Piers  to  North  Cadbury  was  maintained. 
The  objection  must  have  been  to  King  James*'s  mandate, 
for  two  years  earlier  Henry  Hanley,  appointed  Fellow 
by  the  mandate  of  Charles  II.,  was  peaceably  presented 
to  Aller. 

This  is  nearly  the  only  trace  of  the  College  having 
been  directly  affected  by  the  political  and  dynastic  change 
of  1688 ;  but  it  must  have  felt  the  loss  of  support  and 
patronage  in  the  fall  of  Sancroft,  who  shortly  before  his 
deprivation  of  the  archbishopric  had  been  elected 
Chancellor  of  the  University,  though  he  had  refused  the 
office,  feeling  that  the  insecurity  of  his  position  made  it 
unlikely  that  he  could  be  of  service  to  it.  In  this 
period,  too — perhaps  the  least  fortunate  in  the  College 
history — there  are  signs  that  the  social  habits  of  the 
Fellows  were  becoming  more  convivial,  while  diminishing 


120  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

means  often  made  these  habits  somewhat  oppressive. 
In  the  College  order  of  March  9,  1699,  it  was  agreed  : 
(1)  That  the  steward  on  appointment  'was  to  entertain 
y®  society  with  six  bottles  of  red  wine,  but  was  not  to 
be  at  any  farther  charge,  as  steward,  for  wine  or  pan- 
cakes upon  Shrove  Tuesday  or  at  any  other  time  what- 
ever/ (2)  The  Head  Lecturer  was  to  entertain  the 
society  with  12  quarts  of  red  wine  on  the  same  day 
as  he  made  his  first  speech  in  the  College  hall,  but  was 
not  to  be  at  any  farther  charge,  as  Lecturer,  for  break- 
fast or  suppers,  or  any  sort  of  entertainment  whatever. 
(3)  A  Fellow  taking  the  B.D.  was  not  to  be  obliged 
to  make  any  sort  of  treat  or  entertainment  whatever, 
except  the  usual  one  in  the  hall  before  the  clerum  or  Act, 
and  a  moderate  dinner  in  the  hall  after  his  clerum.  In 
1723  (under  Savage)  the  stewardship  is  said  to  have 
been  augmented,  and  the  steward  is  consequently  re- 
quired to  give  '  12  quarts  of  red  wine  and  a  pound 
of  tobacco.**  This  is  the  first  indication  of  smoking  in 
the  parlour,  which,  according  to  Gunning,  remained  a 
special  feature  of  the  Emmanuel  common-room — at  any 
rate  to  the  end  of  the  century.  In  1747  four  Fellows 
signed  an  order  exempting  Dean,  Steward,  and  Lecturer 
from  these  entertainments,  but  a  rider  in  Richardson's 
upright  handwriting  declares :  *  This  order  and  agree- 
ment being  made,  entered,  and  signed  in  an  irregular 
manner  in  my  absence,  I  do  declare  it  to  be  null  and 
void."*  Hurd  is  one  of  the  four  signatories,  and  Richard- 
son's disagreement  with  the  Fellows,  we  shall  see,  was 
frequent. 

Another  indication  of  money  difficulties  in  the  society 
is   an   order  of   April    10,    1700,   providing    for   the 


BALDERSTON^S  MASTERSHIP  121 

'sequesting'  of  Fellowships  for  debts  to  the  stewards 
reaching  over  more  than  two  quarters.  Another  quarrel 
in  the  society  which  put  the  Master  and  four  seniors  on 
one  side,  and  the  rest  of  the  Fellows  on  the  other,  con- 
cerned the  sizars.  The  two  rival  orders  will  serve  to 
illustrate  the  position  of  these  persons,  who  were  really 
expected  to  render  menial  services  in  return  for  their 
maintenance  and  education.  The  first  is  signed  by 
seven  Fellows,  and  is  dated  December  23,  1707  : 

'  Whereas  a  custom  has  prevailed  for  the  4  junior  Fellows 
to  pay  each  yearly  40^  for  the  hiring  themselves  a  sisar, 
which  by  experience  has  been  found  a  great  grievance  ; 
and  whereas  there  is  from  statute  an  equal  right  to  all  y® 
12  fellows  of  y^  foundation  in  y®  service  of  y®  Sisars  appointed 
to  serve  at  y^  fellows  table:  We  the  majority  of  the 
Fellows,  for  prevention  of  the  like  inconvenience  for  the 
future,  do  agree  and  resolve  that  the  four  junior  sisars, 
who  are  in  waiting,  shall  serve  the  four  Junior  Fellows,  and 
lay  their  knife,  fork,  napkin  etc.  ad  mensam  Sociorum,  in 
the  same  manner  as  they  serve  any  of  the  Senior  Fellows, 
without  any  other  allowance  for  such  their  service  than  is 
allotted  by  the  statute.* 

On  the  opposite  page  is  a  counter- order  signed  by 
the  Master  and  four  Fellows : 

'  The  Master  and  four  senior  fellows,  tho  they  do  agree 
that  four  of  the  Sisars  belonging  to  the  eight  senior  fellows 
shall  bring  into  and  take  out  of  the  Hall  y«  stoops,  knives 
and  napkins  of  y«  four  Junior  Fellows  gratis,  yet  they 
cannot  assent  to  and  subscribe  y^  order  of  y®  ^S^^  of 
December  1707  as  it  is  drawn  up  on  y^  opposite  side  for 
y®  following  reasons  : 

'  1st.  Because  it  is  therein  asserted  that  y®  four  junior 


122  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

fellows  have  a  right  by  statute  to  y^  services  of  y®  sisars  in 
y®  case  mentioned  in  that  order,  notwithstanding  imme- 
morial customs  and  practices  to  y®  contrary :  And  we 
conceive  our  subscribing  this  article  will  be  an  implicit 
acknowledgement  under  our  hand  that  we  and  all  the 
Masters  and  all  the  eight  Seniors  that  have  ever  been  of 
the  College  have  either  been  oppressors  and  unjust:  be- 
cause the  acknowledgment  of  this  article  supposes  we  and 
they  have  either  kept  y^  four  junior  Fellows  from  or 
deprived  and  defrauded  them  of  their  statutable  right. 

'  2nd.  Because  this  order  postpones  y^  seniority  among 
y®  Fellows  to  y®  seniority  among  y®  scholars,  which  we 
think  is  not  fair  and  equal,  and  directly  contrary  to  y*^ 
customs  of  y«  College,  and  it  may  be  not  altogether  agree- 
able to  y®  statutes,  which  in  cases  of  privilege  give  y® 
preference  to  y®  seniors/ 

As  the  seniors  yield  the  chief  point  at  issue,  it  seems 
scarcely  to  have  been  worth  while  to  insert  this  protest 
and  to  give  such  very  obscure  and  weak  reasons. 

Whether  it  was  financial  embarrassment  or  the  accu- 
mulation of  duplicates  in  the  library  that  prompted  the 
next  order  signed  by  Balderston  (March  20,  1712),  we 
cannot  be  sure,  but  on  that  date  Mr.  JefFerey  is  authorized 
'  to  sell  such  books  belonging  to  the  library  as  the 
society  thinks  fit  to  part  with,"*  and  an  order  of 
January  17,  1716,  seems  to  imply  that  the  proceeds 
amounted  to  .^200,  which  were  '  to  be  put  out  for  y® 
use  of  y®  Library.'  Between  these  two  dates  another 
order  (March  10,  1715)  speaks  of  losses  to  the  College 
owing  to  the  bankruptcy  of  the  tenant  of  the  Brew- 
house  (in  the  paddock),  and  the  need  of  redeeming 
the  various  vessels  in  it  seized  by  the  Excise  officers; 


WILLIAM  LAW  123 

again,  owing  to  the  steward  (Potter)  dying  in  debt 
to  the  College ;  and,  lastly,  owing  to  the  imminent  need 
of  extensive  repairs  to  the  buildings.  In  consequence 
of  these  losses,  two  Fellowships  already  vacant,  and 
three  more  shortly  to  become  so,  are  not  to  be  filled  up. 
Accordingly,  for  some  years  to  come  the  number  of 
Fellows  signing  orders  never  exceeds  eight.  Serious 
consideration  seems  at  once  to  have  been  given  to  the 
dilapidations  of  the  College  buildings,  with  the  result 
that  the  last  order  signed  by  Balderston  (August  7, 
1719)  declares  it  'necessary  to  pull  down  that  part  of  the 
College  called  y^Founders  range,"  and  appoints  two  of  the 
Fellows  (Whitaker  and  Whitehead)  to  superintend  the 
work  and  pay  the  workmen.  Not  many  days  after  this, 
Balderston,  having  retired  to  Peterborough,  of  which  he 
was  a  Prebend,  died  at  his  residence  there  (August 
28,  1719). 

One  other  order  signed  by  him  is  of  more  than 
common  interest.  It  is  dated  January  17,  1716-17: 
'  Whereas  Mr.  Law's  fellowship  was  by  act  of  parlia- 
ment vacated  in  January  last  year  upon  his  refusal  to 
take  the  oaths  mentioned  in  ye  said  act,  Dr.  Fletcher 
was  elected  into  his  place  on  the  31st  day  of  August 
last."*  This  is  the  celebrated  William  Law,  author 
of  the  Serious  Call  and  numerous  other  theological 
works.  He  had  once  before  been  suspended  from  his 
degrees  (1713)  for  a  sermon  which  favoured  the  Pre- 
tender, and  on  the  accession  of  George  I.  declined  the 
oath  of  allegiance  and  abjuration.  From  1727  to  1737 
he  lived  much  at  Putney,  first  as  tutor  to  Edward 
Gibbon,  father  of  the  historian,  whom  he  accompanied 
to  Cambridge  when  he  entered  Emmanuel  in  1727,  and 


1^4  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

afterwards  as  '  the  much-honoured  friend  and  spiritual 
director  of  the  whole  family.'  Law  was  elected  Fellow 
in  1711,  but  seems  to  have  resided  very  little,  and  his 
name  appears  at  the  foot  of  no  College  order.  During 
his  second  residence,  as  tutor  of  Gibbon,  he  of  course 
was  no  longer  one  of  the  governing  body.  He  resided 
finally  at  his  native  village  of  King's  Cliffe,  near  Stamford, 
accompanied  by  Mrs.  Hutcheson  and  Miss  Gibbon,  who 
formed  with  him  a  kind  of  religious  community,  and 
between  them  they  erected  almshouses  and  schools.  He 
died  April  9,  1761.  The  next  year  his  collected  works 
were  published  in  nine  volumes.  They  had  great 
influence  on  many  of  the  early  Evangelicals,  including 
the  Wesleys  and  Whitfield. 

Quite  a  different  character  was  Joshua  Barnes,  who 
entered  the  College  from  Christ's  Hospital  in  1671, 
became  Fellow  in  1678,  and  Greek  Professor  in  1695.  He 
was  a  most  indefatigable  writer  on  many  subjects  in 
English,  Greek,  and  Latin.  His  English  History  of 
Edward  III.  never  had  much  success,  and  has  long  since 
been  forgotten.  A  long  Latin  poem  on  his  wars,  Fran- 
dados,  on  the  model  of  the  Mneid,  was  never  pub- 
lished, though  two  MS.  copies  of  it,  extending  to  eight 
books,  are  in  the  College  library.  He  wrote  some  plays 
— which  also  remain  in  MS. — and  a  small  book  called 
Gerania,  which  is  in  some  degree  a  precursor  of  Swift's 
Lilliput,  and  a  paraphrase  of  the  Book  of  Esther  in 
Greek  verse.  He  wrote  Greek  verse  with  ease,  though 
sometimes  without  much  correctness,  and  many  epigrams 
are  preserved  in  the  library  addressed  to  his  brother 
Fellows,  the  Master,  and  others.  His  chief  works,  how- 
ever, were  editions  of  Euripides  (1694),  Anacreon  (1705), 


JOSHUA  BARNES  125 

and  Homer  (1710).  The  first  is  a  sumptuous  book, 
and  has  many  merits,  but  it,  unfortunately,  involved  him 
in  a  controversy  with  Bentley  as  to  the  genuineness  of 
certain  epistles  of  Euripides,  which  he  ventured  to  print. 
Monk,  in  his  Life  of  Bentley  (vol.  i.,  pp.  52-54),  of  course 
defends  his  hero,  and  says  that  his  criticisms  are  in  '  a 
lively  and  playful  strain.'  However  that  may  be  (the 
letter  is  printed  in  the  Museum  Criticum,  ii.  405), 
the  reasons  alleged  by  Bentley  are  not  as  weighty  and 
convincing  as  Monk  seems  to  think.  At  any  rate, 
Barnes  printed  the  letters,  and  characterized  anyone  who 
doubted  their  genuineness  as  either  'impudent  or 
foolish  **  ('  perfrictae  frontis  aut  iudicii  imminuti),  which 
Monk  accounts  for  by  supposing  that  Barnes  was  so 
strong  a  Jacobite  as  to  'regard  with  contempt  the 
opinions  and  scholarship  of  a  person  patronized  by  the 
deliverer''s  government.'  If  Bentley  had  been  as  polite 
and  reasonable  as  Monk  asserts  on  this  occasion,  he 
made  up  for  it  in  1710,  when  Barnes  published  his  Iliad 
and  Odyssey,  In  his  preface  he  complains  of  the  envy 
and  neglect  of  his  contemporaries,  and  especially  of  one 
Zoilus,  whom  he  calls  homo  inimkus.  This  was  supposed 
to  mean  Bentley,  who  retaliated  in  a  letter  to  Davies 
(Monk's  Bentley,  i.,  p.  293),  conceived  in  his  most 
brutal  vein.  Poor  Barnes  did  not  long  survive.  His 
Homer,  published  at  his  own,  or,  rather,  his  wife's  risk, 
proved  a  failure,  and  he  died  in  considerable  distress 
August  3,  1712.  His  epitaph  in  Hemingford  church- 
yard calls  him  7ro\vT6')(yo<;  and  Aoyoypvcpoyv  <f>epLaio^ 
avdo<i  re  tcop  dot,S  oov  t(ov  laiopcop  fi€yt,crTO<;  Kal  prjTopoyv 
dpi(7T0<i  Kol  /juavTeoyv  ^dOL<TTO<i  ^peravviKrjf;  dpovp7]<;, 
A  greater  scholar  than  Barnes  was  Richard  Dawes, 


126  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

who  entered  the  College  as  a  sizar  in  1725,  and  was  elected 
a  Dixie  Fellow  in  1731,  being  a  native  of  Market  Bos- 
worth  and  educated  at  the  school  there.  He,  too,  broke 
many  a  lance  with  Bentley,  whom  he  attacked  alive 
and  dead  in  his  Miscellanea  Critica  (1745).  But 
Dawes  was  in  other  respects  neither  a  successful  nor  a 
reputable  man.  His  career  as  Master  of  the  grammar- 
school  at  Newcastle  was  unfortunate,  and  he  died 
almost  insane  (1766). 

Edward  Chandler  (M.A.  169S),  after  holding 
numerous  preferments,  became  Bishop  of  Lichfield  in 
1717,  and  of  Durham  in  1730.  He  had  some  reputa- 
tion in  his  day  as  a  controversialist,  especially  as 
against  the  Deistic  writings  of  William  Collins.  He  is 
said  to  have  accumulated  a  large  fortune  by  his  Church 
preferments,  and  was  also  accused  of  having  given  a 
large  sum  for  the  see  of  Durham.  He  died  in  1750. 
Another  divine  of  some  distinction  was  Richard 
Arnald,  elected  Fellow  from  Corpus  in  1720,  and 
presented  in  1733  to  Thurcaston.  He  was  the  author, 
among  other  things,  of  a  commentary  on  the  Apocrypha, 
which  is  still  held  in  esteem. 


CHAPTER  VII 

MASTEESHIPS    OF    WILLIAM    SAVAGE     (1719-1736), 
AND  WILLIAM  KICHARDSON  (1736-1775) 

On  the  death  of  Balderston  on  August  28,  1719,  the 
Fellows  elected  George  Thorpe,  D.D.,  as  Master.  He 
had  been  elected  to  a  Fellowship  from  Caius  in  1663, 
one  of  the  six  selected  under  Sancroffs  influence,  with 
the  direct  purpose  of  modifying  the  Puritanical  character 
of  the  College.  He  does  not  appear  to  have  resided 
long,  and  he  had  since  been  Rector  of  Bishop's  Boum  in 
Kent  and  Prebendary  of  Canterbury.  He  is  best  known 
in  College  as  the  founder  of  the  Thorpe  Scholarships,  for 
which  he  was  for  many  years  (and  till  about  ten  years 
ago)  specially  commemorated  on  the  '  Thorpe  Day,'  in 
the  October  term.  The  founder's  cup  was  passed  round 
after  dinner,  each  member  standing  to  drink  the  port- 
wine  in  it  with  the  words,  'In  piam  memoriam  fun- 
datoris  nostri  et  benefactorum  nostrorum,  praecipue 
Doctoris  Thorpe.'  Under  the  new  arrangement  of  an 
annual  commemoration  his  name  no  longer  figures  so 
prominently.  Thorpe  declined  the  mastership,  probably 
on  account  of  his  age,  for,  as  he  took  his  M. A.  degree  in 
1660,  he  must  now  have  been  at  least  eighty,     There- 

127 


1S8  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

upon  the  Fellows  elected  William  Savage,  a  much 
younger  man,  for  he  was  M.A.  and  Fellow  in  1692. 
Savage  was  born  at  Ickleford  in  Hertfordshire,  was 
Rector  of  Gravesend  and  Stone  in  Kent,  and  had  taken 
his  D.D.  degree  in  1717.  He  was  admitted  Master  on 
September  26,  1719,  but  resigned  in  the  following 
year  in  order  to  be  presented  to  the  living  of  St.  Anne's, 
Blackfriars,  thus  evading  the  statute  forbidding  the 
Master  accepting  preferment,  and  he  was  readmitted 
on  November  4,  1720.  Two  leaves  have  been  torn 
from  the  order-book  referring  to  the  early  months 
of  this  year,  which  might  perhaps  have  thrown  some 
light  on  the  subject.  He  appears  to  have  been 
absent  in  London  much  of  his  first  year  of  office. 
There  is  an  order  of  November  4,  1719,  granting 
him  special  leave :  '  It  being  highly  necessary  that 
the  Master  should  be  in  London  this  winter  to 
sollicite  the  urgent  affairs  of  the  College.' 

Whatever  these  urgent  affairs  were,  whether  connected 
with  the  subscriptions  to  the  new  buildings*  or  with  suits 
at  law,  he  may  have  seen  reason  to  prefer  residence  in 
his  London  living.  The  numbers  were  fairly  maintained 
during  his  mastership,  averaging  about  twenty-five  entries 
in  the  year,  and  he  does  not  appear  to  have  had  much 
trouble  in  regard  to  discipline,  only  two  undergraduates 
being  recorded  as  admonished  by  him,  one  '  for  notorious 
deceit  put  upon  his  Tutor,'  and  another  'for  a  very 
gross  immorality  committed  by  him.'     But  there  are 

*  The  new  buildings  on  the  site  of  the  Founder's  Range,  ordered 
just  before  Balderston's  death,  were  ready  for  use  in  1722,  and 
subscriptions  were  obtained  amounting  to  /2,386  and  over,  of 
which  Lord  Westmorland  gave  /500. 


SAVAGE^S  MASTERSHIP  129 

two  entries  of  an  extraordinary  character,  which  would 
seem  to  show  that  he  had  difficulties  to  contend  with 
among  the  Fellows.  The  first  is  dated  August  24,  1725 : 
'  Mr.  Fuller,  senior  fellow  and  dean  of  the  College,  was 
admonished  by  the  master  in  the  presence  of  all  the 
Fellows  then  in  College  for  great  offences  he  was  guilty 
of.'  Whatever  this  peccant  Dean  had  done  or  left 
undone,  the  admonition  does  not  seem  to  have  had 
much  effect,  for  on  November  11,  1726,  we  again 
read : 

'Mr.  Fuller  being  summoned  did  appear  before  the 
Master  and  Senior  Fellows  and  Dean,  and  the  Master  pro- 
ceeded to  admonish  him  for  his  irregular  behaviour  and 
notorious  neglect  of  duty.  Upon  this  admonition  he 
behaved  himself  in  a  very  insolent  outrageous  manner, 
and  upon  the  Master  mentioning  that  he  admonished 
him  according  to  the  direction  of  the  Statutes  he  replied, 
A  f — t  for  your  admonition,  and  used  other  contemptuous 
language.' 

After  this  Savage  seems  to  have  given  up  admonishing 
anybody.  But  Fuller  was  in  some  way  got  rid  of,  for 
he  ceases  to  sign  College  orders,  which  are  now  more 
regularly  entered  in  the  book,  in  accordance  with  a 
special  order  to  that  effect  dated  March  24,  1720. 
Robert  Fuller,  a  native  of  King's  Lynn,  had  been  a 
Fellow  since  1719,  having  entered  the  College  in  1712, 
one  of  the  leanest  years  in  the  College  history,  when 
there  were  only  nine  admissions.  He  seems  to  have 
remained  in  residence  till  the  October  term  of  1 726,  and, 
as  he  was  Dean  in  the  previous  year,  he  must  have  been 
in  Holy  Orders ;  but  I  cannot  trace  his  after-career,  nor 
is  there  any  indication  of  the   misdemeanours  which 

9 


130  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

brought  down  upon  him  the  second  solemn  admonition. 
He  must  have  ceased  to  be  Fellow  before  January,  1729, 
when  another  Norfolk  Fellow  was  elected. 

During  the  rest  of  the  mastership  of  Savage,  the 
chief  signs  of  animation  in  the  College  is  an  increased 
care  for  the  library.  A  code  of  rules  as  to  the  borrow- 
ing of  books,  the  entries  to  be  made,  and  the  duties  of 
the  Librarian,  especially  as  to  cataloguing  the  books 
and  providing  writing  materials,  was  confirmed  on 
November  4,  1719.  Two  years  later  (April  10,  1721) 
an  order  was  passed  for  buying  books  with  the  money 
due  to  the  library  from  '  Commencing  Batchelors  and 
Masters  of  Arts,"  instead  of  leaving  it  in  the  hands  of 
the  steward,  to  be  spent  in  other  ways.  In  the  next 
year,  however,  an  order  was  found  necessary  for  calling 
in  all  books  and  instituting  a  strict  investigation  of  the 
state  of  the  library.  Apparently,  the  Librarian  was 
paid  so  small  a  salary  that  he  did  not  find  it  worth 
while  to  do  much  in  his  office,  for  in  1724  a  payment 
of  two  shillings  a  quarter  by  every  Fellow-commoner, 
one  shilling  by  every  pensioner,  and  sixpence  by  every 
sizar,  was  ordered,  to  raise  the  Librarian's  stipend  to  ddO 
per  annum,  the  balance  to  be  used  for  other  purposes 
in  the  library ;  and  in  1731  an  order  forbids  the  taking 
out  of  certain  books  of  reference  at  all,  and  limits  the 
time  for  keeping  other  books  to  one  month,  under  a 
fine  of  five  shillings. 

Another  department  of  the  College  equipment 
which  received  some  attention  was  the  plate.  An 
order  was  passed  in  1719  to  limit  the  issuing  of 
plate  to  members  of  the  College  for  their  use,  and 
to   forbid  anyone   'to  set  upon  or  over  the  fire  any 


SAVAGE'S  MASTERSHIP  131 

silver  drinking-pots  or  plates  belonging  to  y^  College 
for  y®  heating  or  warming  of  any  liquor,  or  for  any 
other  purpose';  and  another,  in  1723, directs  that  every- 
one taking  out  plate  must  give  a  written  receipt  for  it, 
and  return  it  clean.  Next  year  an  order  alludes  to  the 
breach  of  an  ancient  custom  of  the  College  by  Fellow- 
commoners  not  giving  a  piece  of  plate.  They  are  to 
do  so  in  future  through  their  Tutor,  to  the  value  of  £6 : 
an  order  confirmed  in  1730,  with  the  proviso  that  it 
is  to  be  done  within  six  months  of  admission.  This 
practice  accounts  for  much  now  in  possession  of  the 
College.  But  that  much  is  of  comparatively  recent 
date  is  partly  explained  by  an  order  of  February  8, 
1719-20,  for  the  'exchange  of  121  ounces  10  penny- 
weight for  new  and  more  useful  utensils.'  A  consider- 
able amount  also  was  lost  by  a  burglary  in  1723,  and 
some  more  in  1800  by  the  same  means. 

The  College  seems  in  this  period  to  have  had 
some  difficulty  with  a  very  important  officer,  the 
butler,  as  to  the  percentages  charged  by  him  on 
bread  and  other  provisions.  This  culminated  in  the 
'  removal '  of  the  manciple  or  butler  in  February,  1726, 
and  before  the  election  of  a  new  one  certain  conditions 
were  laid  down  :  The  new  butler  was  to  give  <^100 
security,  was  to  be  content  with  5  per  cent,  on  the 
price  of  bread  sold  in  the  buttery,  and  was  to  charge 
only  the  market  price  for  coals,  and  give  full  measure. 
If  the  butler  had  been  unsatisfactory,  so  had  the 
bedmakers.  They  seem  to  have  been  appointed  at 
haphazard,  either  by  the  Tutors  or  undergraduates, 
and  an  order  of  October  28,  1735,  remarks  that  '  owing 
to  the  number  lately  serving  in  the  College  many  things 

9—2 


13S  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

have  been  lost  and  other  inconveniences  have  arisen.' 
It  is  therefore  agreed  that  in  future  no  one  is  to  be 
brought  as  bedmaker  into  the  College  without  the 
consent  and  approbation  of  the  Master  and  Fellows. 

About  this  time  also  the  College  had  to  deal  with 
the  matter  of  the  Gillingham  Fellowship,  founded  in 
1728  by  the  will  of  Mr.  Gillingham,  as  interpreted  by 
a  decree  of  Chancery.  It  was  to  be  additional  to  the 
existing  twelve,  and  to  be  paid  by  the  estate  left  ex- 
pressly for  it.  An  order  of  April  19, 1732,  directs  that 
it  should  be  offered  to  the  senior  foundation  Fellows  in 
turn,  and  that  the  holder  should  have  all  the  privileges 
of  a  foundation  Fellow,  but  not  '  any  share  of  the  usual 
constant  and  standing  profits  and  emoluments '  of  the 
remaining  twelve.  This  order,  however,  was  revoked 
upon  a  vacancy  occurring  in  1751,  under  legal  advice, 
and  a  candidate  outside  the  society  was  elected  in  the 
ordinary  way.  This  continued  till  the  revision  of  1861, 
when  the  Fellowship  was  abolished,  and  the  income  of 
the  Gillingham  foundation  was  carried  to  the  general 
funds  of  the  College. 

Savage  died  on  August  1,  1736,  and  on  the  10th  of 
the  same  month  the  Fellows  elected  William  Richard- 
son, D.D.  He  had  been  a  scholar,  but  not  a  Fellow,  of 
the  College.  He  was,  however,  the  son  of  a  former 
Fellow,  John  Richardson  (1674-1685),  who  was  pre- 
sented to  North  Luffenham  in  1685,  and,  being  deprived 
as  a  non -juror  in  1690,  retired  to  AVithamstead  in 
Bedfordshire,  and  occupied  himself  in  composing  a 
learned  reply  to  the  deist  Toland.  His  son  William 
was  born  there  in  1698,  and  at  the  time  of  his  election 
to  the  mastership  was  a  Prebendary  and  Precentor  of 


RICHARDSON^S  MASTERSHIP  133 

Lincoln.  He  had  been  residing  in  Cambridge  in  order 
to  consult  the  libraries  for  his  chief  work,  an  edition  of 
Godwin's  De  Prcesulibus  Anglice  Commentarii  (1743), 
and  in  1735  had  taken  his  Doctor's  degree  and  had 
become  a  F.S.A.  His  election  seems  to  have  been  a 
surprise  to  himself,  and  was  effected  without  consulting 
him.  During  his  mastership  he  kept  up  his  anti- 
quarian habits,  and  set  laboriously  to  work  to  compile 
a  register,  not  only  of  his  own  College,  but  of  the  other 
Colleges  also.  The  book  of  'admissions,'  including 
lists  of  Master  and  Fellows  from  the  earliest  times, 
now  in  the  College  treasury,  embraces  King's  Hall 
and  Michael  House — afterwards  combined  in  Trinity — 
St.  John's,  King's,  Eton,  Pembroke,  and  a  statistical 
comparison  of  the  Colleges  of  Cambridge  and  Oxford. 
It  is  very  careful  and  neat,  and  must  have  cost  him 
great  labour.  For  Emmanuel  it  stops  at  1734,  but  as 
far  as  it  goes  it  was  the  foundation  of  '  Bennet's  Book,' 
and  is  of  great  value.  As  a  ruler  of  the  College  he 
must  have  been  exceedingly  businesslike  and  able,  but — 
as  his  portrait  would  seem  to  show — neither  genial  nor 
conciliatory. 

The  order-book  carefully  kept  during  his  mastership, 
and  mostly  in  his  own  clear  and  upright  handwriting, 
bears  ample  testimony  to  his  activity  and  ability;  but  it 
also  contains  the  record  of  more  than  01.3  contest 
between  him  and  a  large  part  of  the  Fellows,  leading  to 
written  protests,  and  sometimes  to  references  to  external 
arbitrators.  This  is  partly  to  be  accounted  for  by  the 
autocratic  position  of  the  Master.  The  funds  of  the 
College  were  almost  entirely  in  his  hands.  He  was 
practically   Bursar  as  well  as   Master,  and  when  the 


134  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

bursarship  became  important  and  regularly  filled  up, 
the  expression  used  at  first  was, '  The  office  of  Bursar  was 
delegated  by  the  Master  to  so  and  so.'  This  first  occurs 
after  Cory's  election  in  1797,  but  in  previous  master- 
ships the  office  was  not  important,  and  until  1756  was 
unpaid.  An  order  of  May  5  in  that  year  assigns 
£^0  a  year  to  him  for  the  future  '  in  consideration  of 
his  trouble."*  It  was  not,  however,  till  forty-eight  years 
later  that  it  was  raised  to  ^^40  (October  26,  1804),  at 
which  sum  it  remained  for  fourteen  years,  when  it  was 
doubled  (1818).  Still,  it  was  looked  upon  as  naturally 
attaching  to  the  mastership,  and  in  1809  the  Master  is 
compensated  by  £Q0  a  year  as  long  as  he  delegates  the 
office. 

The  increased  importance  of  the  bursarship  began 
with  the  closing  years  of  Farmer's  mastership,  who  was 
a  poor  man  of  business,  and  left  the  accounts  between 
himself  and  the  College  in  such  confusion  that  the 
Bursar  (Tyson)  had  the  greatest  difficulty  in  coming  to 
a  settlement  with  his  heirs.  A  College  order  of  June  20, 
1799,  requests  Tyson  (who  had  just  taken  a  living)  to 
accept  a  piece  of  plate  of  twenty  guineas  value  in  con- 
sideration of  the  extraordinary  trouble  which  he  experi- 
enced in  settling  the  accounts  of  the  College  with  the 
administrator  of  the  late  Master,  as  well  as  his  zealous 
attention  to  the  interests  of  the  society  on  other  occa- 
sions. It  is  not  surprising,  therefore,  that  the  Fellows 
after  Farmer's  death  wished  the  bursarship  to  be 
separated  from  the  mastership. 

But  in  Richardson's  time  the  Master  still  held  the 
money  of  the  society,  and  represented  it  in  all  matters 
of  business.     Nor  did  he  prove  unfaithful  or  unskilful. 


RICHARDSON'S  MASTERSHIP  135 

He  at  once  took  drastic  measures  to  recover  the  finances 
of  the  College.  Among  the  earliest  orders  signed  by 
him  (February  5,  1737)  is  one  to  suspend  the  election 
to  Fellowships  till  the  number  is  reduced  to  seven, 
owing  to  lawsuits  and  debts  contracted  for  rebuilding 
the  Founder's  Range  and  other  causes.  Two  years  later, 
though  three  Fellowships  were  filled  up,  three  were  still 
suspended.  But  in  1742  an  order  of  December  2 
declares  the  College  debt  to  be  'considerably  dimin- 
ished,' and  in  1745  an  order  of  April  15  declares  the 
College  to  be  entirely  out  of  debt,  and  directs  the  two 
vacant  Fellowships  to  be  filled  up.  About  this  time, 
accordingly,  some  minor  improvements  were  made.  In 
1745  money  was  given  by  a  Mr.  Barlow  for  the  use  of 
the  gardens,  with  which  the  bath  was  constructed,  and 
money  which  had  been  borrowed  from  the  library  was 
repaid,  and  the  interest  devoted  to  its  use.  But  though 
the  state  of  the  revenue  was  satisfactory,  there  seems  to 
have  been  some  difficulty  in  meeting  extraordinary 
expenses.  An  order  of  June  22,  1752,  affirms  the 
necessity  of  rebuilding  the  butteries  and  contiguous 
buildings,  which  had  become  '  very  ruinous."*  Mr. 
Burroughs  is  to  be  desired  to  prepare  a  plan,  Mr.  Devie 
(who  managed  the  supply  of  coal)  is  to  be  associated 
with  the  Master  in  carrying  out  the  plan,  and  a 
hope  is  expressed  that  the  expenses  will  be  in  part,  at 
least,  met  by  benefactions.  But  either  the  benefactions 
were  slow  in  coming  in,  or  other  needs  intervened. 

In  1760  the  alterations  in  the  hall,  according  to  the 
plan  of  Essex,  were  agreed  to,  and  in  1762  there  is  an 
order  for  borrowing  ^£^300  to  meet  the  'considerable 
reparations  and  other  works '  going  on,  and  because  the 


136  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

public  stocks  were  so  low  as  to  make  it  imprudent  to 
sell  out  (order-book,  February  3,  1762).      Meanwhile 
Mr.  Devie   had   gone  off  to  Standground  and  Farcet 
(1766),   and    three   years    later   (March   11,   1769)   a 
College  order  again  records  the  ruinous  condition  of  the 
buildings  '  opposite  the  chappel,'  and  directs  that  '  the 
butteries  and  buildings  running   from   thence  to   the 
street  be  immediately  pulled  down,  and  rebuilt  according 
to  the  plan  drawn  by  Sir  James  Burroughs  some  years 
since.'     The  actual  work,  however,  was  not  begun  at 
once,  and  a  new  plan  drawn  by  Essex   was   accepted 
on  July  5,  1769,  and  was  ordered  to  be  carried  into 
execution  '  when  the  College  shall  be  enabled  to  do  it.' 
Probably   some   disputes   arose   as   to  the  method   of 
raising  money.     Over  ,£'2,800  had  been  received  from 
subscriptions  for  the  new  building,  but  when  the  last 
payments  came  to  be  made  in  the  year  after  Richard- 
son's death,  a  heavier  debt  existed   than  the  College 
could   meet   by   its   ordinary   income.      An   order    of 
November  17,  1770,  for  borrowing  ^£^200  is  marked  by 
the  Master  *  Not  done';  but  on  January  24, 1772,  there 
is   an   order  for  selling   out  ^00  Bank   consolidated 
annuities ;  on  March  14, 1773,  the  Master  is  empowered 
to  borrow  ^£^500  on  lives  for  the  new  building ;  and  on 
March  16,  1776,  a  College  order  declares  an  insigne 
detrimentum  occasioned  by  the  expenses  attending  the 
erection  of  the  new  building,  and  suspends  election  to 
Fellowships.     In   1778,  however,  came   a  considerable 
legacy  from  Hubbard,  by  which  an  order  of  May  13 
declares  the   College  income   to   be   'considerably  in- 
creased.'    The  Master  received   an  additional   ^£^40   a 
year,  each  of  the  four  senior  Fellows  ^10.     The  insigrie 


RICHARDSON'S  MASTERSHIP  137 

detrimentum  was  pronounced  at  an  end,  and  the  society 
went  on  almost  immediately  to  elect  four  Fellows. 
Another  heavy  sum' which  the  College  was  called  upon 
to  find  about  the  same  time  was  over  ^£^1,100  for 
the  enclosure  of  the  Manor  of  Shernbourn  in  Norfolk 
(the  Ash  Estate).  This  money  was  advanced  by  a  late 
Fellow  R.  Richardson  (son  of  the  Master),  who  was  not 
paid  off  finally  till  December,  1778.  But  the  Master, 
William  Richardson,  seemed  to  have  steered  the  College 
skilfully  through  these  difficulties,  and  the  value  of  its 
property  continued  steadily  to  increase. 

In  the  matter  of  discipline  he  would  seem  to 
have  found  it  necessary  to  use  a  somewhat  tighter 
hand  than  his  predecessor.  The  number  of  admoni- 
tions, perhaps,  is  not  excessive  (32  in  40  years), 
though  rather  above  the  average  ;  but  they  are 
generally  for  more  serious  offences :  drunkenness,  stay- 
ing out  one  or  more  nights,  entertaining  immoral 
persons  in  College  rooms,*  and  once,  at  least,  for  a 
criminal  assault  upon  a  woman  by  a  scholar — a  case 
which  even  found  its  way  into  the  law-courts,  and  is 
twice  noted :  once  in  the  order-book,  suspending  the 
offender  from  his  scholarship ;  and  later  on  in  the 
admonition-book,  recording  his  expulsion.  Two  orders 
of  October,  1740,  also  refer  to  'the  imprudence  of 
young  scholars  in  contracting  debts  with  persons  of  the 
town.'  The  first  order  threatens  any  servant  of  the 
College  with  loss  of  his  place  if  he  trusts  undergraduates 
and  then  arrests  them  for  debt  without  leave  from  the 

*  A  College  order  of  November  23,  1739,  offers  a  reward  of  £^  to 
anyone  who  shall  discover  such  a  person  in  any  chamber  of  the 
College. 


138  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

society ;  the  second  threatens  a  scholar  with  admonition 
or  rustication  for  contracting  a  debt  of  20  shillings 
at  alehouses  or  inns,  or  with  any  tradesman  without 
the  knowledge  of  his  Tutor.  The  quarrel  as  to  the 
relief  of  the  Dean,  Lecturer,  and  Steward  from  treating 
the  society  to  wine  and  tobacco  on  the  day  of  their 
election  (in  the  course  of  which  Richardson  solemnly 
revoked  an  order  signed  by  four  Fellows)  was  settled  a 
fortnight  later  (May  25,  1747)  by  a  regular  order, 
signed  by  him  and  four  Fellows,  abolishing  the 
practice. 

These  were  yearly  offices,  but  in  this  century  a  change 
had  come  upon  the  system  of  managing  the  under- 
graduates, partly,  perhaps,  because  of  the  reduced 
numbers,  namely,  by  the  appointment  of  a  single  or 
Senior  Tutor.  Up  to  the  end  of  the  seventeenth  century 
it  seems  that  any  of  the  Fellows  could  act  as  Tutor  to 
one  or  more  undergraduates.  They  were  not  formally 
appointed,  and  were  only  recognised  as  the  Tutors  of 
such  and  such  men.  As  late  as  the  first  quarter  of  the 
eighteenth  century  the  appointment  of  a  '  Tutor  of  the 
College '  is  not  entered  in  the  order-book  with  the  other 
officers.  The  Master  probably  assigned  the  men  to  him, 
and  he  thus  became  sole  Tutor.  John  Wilkinson  (Fellow 
1728),  afterwards  Rector  of  Wallington  and  Master  of 
the  Birmingham  School,  seems  to  have  been  the  first  to 
occupy  that  position,  in  which  he  was  succeeded  by  Henry 
Hubbard  in  1736.  Hubbard  remained  Tutor  till  1767, 
and  this  long  tenure  of  the  tutorial  duties  doubtless 
helped  to  confirm  the  arrangement.  He  was  a  Suffolk 
man,  elected  Fellow  in  1732,  and  was  Lady  Margaret 
Preacher,  and  University  Registrary  from  1758  to  his 


HUBBARD'S  TUTORSHIP  139 

death  in  1778.  He  has  left  a  very  complete  record 
of  his  tutorship,  from  which  a  good  idea  of  the  state 
of  the  College  —  then  at  a  very  low  ebb — may  be 
collected. 

He  had  been  a  Conduct  Fellow  of  St.  Catharine's, 
where  his  brother  Edward  was  one  of  the  senior  Fellows, 
but  was  afterwards  elected  to  a  Fellowship  at  Emmanuel ; 
four  years  later  he  was  appointed  to  the  tutorship, 
which  he  held  for  thirty-one  years,  handing  it  over  to 
Dr.  Farmer  in  October,  1767.  His  long  and  active 
tutorship,  and  the  benefactions  which  he  left  at  his 
death,  have  combined  to  make  him  a  considerable  figure 
in  the  domestic  history  of  the  College.  Although  he 
published  nothing  except  one  Charity  sermon,  he  was 
an  active  and  accurate  penman,  and  among  the  books 
which  he  bequeathed  to  the  library  were  a  number 
of  volumes  of  MS.  collections,  which  are  still  pre- 
served in  the  library  and  the  treasury.  Among  these 
there  are  an  elaborate  catalogue  of  his  own  books,  a 
copy  of  the  College  statutes  with  extracts  from  early 
order-books  and  other  sources,  a  copy  of  the  University 
statutes,  a  copy  of  Buck's  Book  of  University/  Cere- 
monies and  Precedents,  a  copy  of  Hare's  Collection  of 
University  Charters  and  other  Documents,  his  accounts 
as  Steward  of  the  College,  and  a  book  entitled  A  Book 
of  Accounts. 

This  last  contains  a  list  of  all  admissions  of  under- 
graduates from  January,  1733,  to  July,  1767.  The 
entries  are  brief  for  the  first  year  or  two,  but  from  1736 
onward  (that  is,  during  the  period  of  Hubbard's  tutor- 
ship) the  list  gives  much  more  information  than  any 
other  early  admission-book  which  has  been  preserved. 


140  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

The  following  may  be  taken  as  a  typical  entry :  '  1753, 
Richard,  son  of  Richard  Farmer,  Woolman  and  Malster, 
born  at  Leicester,  educated  at  Leicester  School,  Mr. 
Andrewes  M*",  aetat.  19,  Pens^**  There  is  a  full  account 
of  the  caution  money  received  and  returned  by  Hubbard 
as  Tutor  from  October  18,  1736,  when  he  took  over  his 
]3upils  from  his  predecessor,  AVilkinson,  until  October  3, 
1767,  when  what  caution  money  he  had  in  hand  was 
handed  over  to  his  successor.  Farmer.  In  a  statement 
of  the  amount  of  tuition  fees  received  in  each  year  of 
his  tutorship  from  1735  to  1742  the  names  of  his 
pupils  are  given.  There  are,  further,  statements  of  the 
receipts  from  his  Fellowship  from  1732  to  1744,  of  his 
income  as  Steward  (a  yearly  office)  1737-38,  1743- 
44,  and  1758-59,  of  his  income  as  Lecturer  1737-38 
and  1743-44,  as  Dean  1737-38,  1744-45,  and  1758-59, 
and  as  Father  (Praelector)  1736-37.  He  held  various 
University  offices  in  his  time,  and  has  included  in  his 
Book  of  Accounts  a  statement  of  his  receipts  as 
Moderator  1732-33  and  1734-35,  as  Taxor  1733-34 
and  1735-36,  and  as  Scrutator  1744-45  and  1757-58. 
Lastly  there  are  included  the  detailed  accounts  of  the 
Registrary's  office  from  July,  1758,  to  October,  1772. 

Taking  the  thirty-five  years  from  1733  to  1767, 
we  find  on  Hubbard's  list  of  admissions  a  total  of 
334  names,  giving  an  average  of  9*5  admissions  per 
year.  The  largest  number  of  admissions  in  any  one 
year  was  18,  in  1759  ;  the  smallest,  1,  in  1756.  It 
ought,  however,  to  be  remembered  that  these  numbers 
do  not  necessarily  represent  the  number  of  freshmen 
actually  coming  into  residence  in  the  years  named,  as 
in  many  cases  names  were  entered  on  the  boards  some 


HUBBARD^S  TUTORSHIP  141 

considerable  time  before  residence  began.  The  numbers 
in  residence  are  also  increased  by  the  incorporation  of 
Bachelors  from  Oxford,  which  explains  the  divergence 
between  the  numbers  given  by  Hubbard  and  those 
given  by  Bennet.  In  Rennet's  register  the  number 
of  admissions  for  the  same  thirty-five  years  amounts  to 
376,  an  average  of  10*7  per  year,  or  1  a  year  more  than 
Hubbard's.  But  in  Bennet's  list  we  find  3  Bachelors 
from  Oxford  in  1737,  3  in  1760,  and  3  again  in 
1761 ;  while  there  are  2  of  them  in  the  lean  year, 
1756.  The  incorporation  of  Bachelors  from  Oxford 
was  caused  by  the  fact  that  at  Oxford  it  was  necessary 
to  sign  the  Thirty-nine  Articles  for  the  M.A.  degree, 
which  it  was  not  necessary  to  do  at  Cambridge. 

In  the  quarterly  statement  of  tuition  fees  Hubbard 
includes  all  those  in  residence  other  than  Fellows  of  the 
College,  although  no  fees  seem  to  have  been  charged  to 
Master  and  Doctors.  In  the  quarter  ending  Lady 
Day,  1743,  there  are  resident  5  Fellow-commoners, 
6  Bachelors,  8  scholars,  13  pensioners,  and  13  sizars,  or 
45  in  all ;  for  the  quarter  ending  Lady  Day,  1753,  the 
numbers  are  1  Doctor  of  Medicine,  5  Fellow-commoners, 
3  Bachelors,  5  scholars,  19  pensioners,  and  5  sizars,  or 
38  in  all ;  and  for  the  quarter  ending  Lady  Day,  1763, 
1  Doctor  of  Medicine,  2  Masters  of  Arts,  10  Fellow- 
commoners,  3  Bachelors,  12  pensioners,  and  6  sizars,  or 
40  in  all.  For  the  twenty-four  years  from  1743  to 
1766  the  average  number  of  residents,  other  than 
Fellows,  was  43,  although  the  number  fell  as  low  as  30 
in  1751. 

Of  the  334  undergraduates  enrolled  in  Hubbards 
admission-register  in  the  years  from  1733  to  1767,  as 


142  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

many  as  254  have  the  names  of  their  schools  recorded. 
During  that  time  18  entered  from  Oakham  School, 
18  from  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  16  from  Eton,  15  from 
Nuneaton,  14  from  Westminster,  and  11  from  Leicester. 
The  connexion  with  Oakham  School  was  probably 
due  to  the  existence  of  the  Johnson  Exhibitions,  but 
Uppingham,  which  is  also  included  in  the  Johnson 
Foundation,  sent  only  2  in  the  thirty-five  years. 
Bury  St.  Edmunds  was  evidently  at  that  time  the 
leading  school  for  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  from  which 
Emmanuel  has  always  been  largely  recruited;  but  it 
had  evidently  also  a  wider  fame,  as  a  fair  proportion  of 
the  18  from  Bury  were  sons  of  professional  men  in 
London.  Nuneaton  owes  its  position  in  the  list  to  the 
influence  of  Mr.  Thomas  Liptrot,  the  Headmaster,  who 
was  elected  a  Fellow  of  Emmanuel  in  1732,  and  soon 
after  was  appointed  to  that  school. 

Next  in  order  of  the  schools  come  Market  Street 
(near  Luton)  and  Dedham  (Essex),  with  7  each,  Repton 
with  6,  and  Mitcham  with  5.  It  may  be  mentioned 
that  of  the  5  from  Mitcham  3  are  born  in  Barbadoes, 
the  sons  respectively  of  the  Hon.  Walter  Caddell, 
Treasurer  of  the  island,  of  Samuel  Adams,  Esq.,  and 
of  John  Thomas,  merchant.  A  fourth  was  Edward 
Evanson,  the  son  of  Thomas  Evanson,  mercer,  of 
Warrington,  and  a  nephew  of  Mr.  Evanson,  the 
Headmaster  of  Mitcham.  Edward  Evanson,  whose 
age,  on  admission  in  1746,  is  entered  as  *  15  next  April,' 
became  later  on  a  noted  theological  controversialist, 
and  was  deprived  of  his  preferment  in  the  Church  '  for 
omitting  part  of  the  Litany  and  delivering  doctrines 
against    the    Incaiiiation."'      He   was    for  a  time   an 


HUBBARD^S  TUTORSHIP  143 

assistant-master  in  his  uncle^s  school  at  Mitcham,  and 
after  leaving  the  Church  he  himself  canied  on  a  suc- 
cessful school  there. 

Eight  schools  sent  each  4  representatives  to  Em- 
manuel in  these  thirty-five  years  :  Harrow,  Felstead, 
Winchester,  Sherborn,  Market  Bosworth,  Norwich, 
Ipswich,  and  Brewood  (Staffs).  John  Gayland,  the 
Headmaster  of  Sherborn,  was  elected  a  Fellow  of 
Emmanuel  in  1713,  was  presented  to  the  College 
living  of  Winsford  in  Somerset  in  1714,  and  was 
soon  after  appointed  to  Sherborn,  where  he  died  in 
1743. 

Nine  schools  sent  3  each,  among  them  Newcastle 
— where  Richard  Dawes  was  Master — Derby,  Bishop 
Stortford,  and  Clitheroe ;  while  among  the  seventeen 
schools  which  are  represented  by  2  entries  appear 
St.  Paul's,  Charterhouse,  Tunbridge,  Merchant  Taylors'*, 
Uppingham,  and  Wakefield.  Forty-four  schools  appear 
with  one  representative  only — many  of  them  no  doubt 
small  grammar-schools,  many  probably  private  schools, 
but  on  this  list  also  appear  Rugby  and  Sedbergh. 

Another  point  of  interest  is  the  geographical  distri- 
bution of  the  members  of  the  College  at  this  time.  We 
can  assign  the  native  county  to  300  out  of  the  334 
on  Mr.  Hubbard's  list.  A  rough  classification  of  the 
counties  gives  the  following  result : 

Midland  Counties,  95  :  Leicester  42,  Stafford  13,  Derby  10, 
Notts  9,  Northants  9,  Warwick  5,  Rutland  4,  Oxford  1, 
Bucks  1,  and  Berks  1. 

Eastern  Counties,  11 :  Suffolk  28,  Lincoln  14,  Norfolk  11, 
Hunts  6,  Hertford  6,  Essex  4,  Cambridge  4,  and  Bed- 
ford 4» 


144  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

Middlesex,  53. 

Noiihern  Counties,  27:  Yorks  12,  Lancashire  6,  North- 
umberland 4,  Westmorland  2,  Cumberland  2,  and  Dur- 
ham 1. 

South-Western  Counties,  18;  Somerset  6,  Dorset  5, 
Devon  4,  Wilts  2,  and  Cornwall  1. 

Soidh- Eastern  Cotmties,  17 :  Kent  8,  Surrey  Q,  and 
Sussex  3. 

West  Indies,  5:  Barbadoes  3,  Jamaica  1,  Antigua 
(Antegoa)  1. 

Scotland,  2. 

India,  2 :  Bombay. 

Ireland,  1. 

Wales,  1  :  Denbigh. 

Portugal,  1  :  Lisbon. 

America,  1  :  Maryland. 

It  is  not  easy  to  explain  the  predominance  of  the 
Midland  counties  in  this  list,  but  probably  one  of  the 
causes  was  the  existence  of  special  relations  with  the 
schools  or  schoolmasters  at  Oakham,  Nuneaton,  and 
Leicester. 

The  entry  relating  to  the  solitary  representative  from 
Cornwall  is  worth  quoting.     It  is : 

'1738,  July  7.  John  Taperall,  born  in  Cornwall,  an 
exciseman,  27  years  old,  formerly  of  Exeter  College,  Sizar. 
N.B.  This  person  was  admitted  in  an  hurry  to  save  the 
year,  but  upon  further  talking  with  him  I  had  some  reason 
to  think  him  a  little  disordered  in  his  senses,  and  there- 
fore advised  to  take  out  his  name,  which  he  did  y®  next 
day.' 

Another  instance  of  hurry  '  to  save  the  year '  is  to  be 
found   in    1739,  when   on   July   6   Neville  King   was 


HUBBARD^S  TUTORSHIP  145 

admitted  'before  y^  Bell  rang,'  but  John  Adcock  on 
the  same  day  was  admitted  '  after  y^  Bell  rang.' 

The  usual  age  for  admission  was  seventeen  or  eighteen, 
but  one  or  two  were  entered  at  an  earlier  age.  Edward 
Evanson,  who  was  to  be  *  1 5  next  April,'  has  already 
been  mentioned,  and  the  following  entry  occurs  in 
1745:  'Sept.  26,  Robert,  Son  of  y«  Rev.  D^  William 
Richardson,  Master  of  Emmanuel  College,  born  in 
London,  Middlesex,  educated  at  Westminster  School, 
Dr  Nichols,  Master,  anno  aetat.  15*°.'' 

In  one  case  at  least  Hubbard  was  Tutor  to  both 
father  and  son.  On  July  6,  1735,  Mr.  John  Hind 
Cotton  was  admitted  as  Fellow-commoner.  This  was 
just  a  year  before  Hubbard  took  up  the  office,  and  in 
1766,  a  year  before  he  laid  it  down,  he  admitted 
'  John,  son  of  Sir  John  Hynde  Cotton,  Bart.,  born  in 
St.  James'  Parish,  Westminster,  educated  at  West- 
minster School,  D""  South  M^",  aet.  18.' 

Nonconformists,  though  not  unknown,  were  rare  in 
the  University  in  those  days,  and  the  form  in  which 
Hubbard  recorded  the  admission  of  Edward  Calamy  is 
some  evidence  of  this.  In  1763,  on  September  30, 
there  was  admitted  as  Fellow-commoner  '  Edmund,  son 
of  Edward  Calamy  (a  Non-conformist  Divine),  bom  in 
Middlesex,  educated  at  Warrington,  Lancashire,  M^ 
Akin  Mr,  aetat.  21.'  Bennet,  who  was  admitted  to 
Emmanuel  in  the  same  year  as  Calamy,  notes  him  in 
the  register  which  he  afterwards  compiled,  as  the 
grandson  of  the  celebrated  Puritan.  Calamy — who  was 
afterwards  a  barrister  at  Lincoln's  Inn — was,  in  fact,  the 
fifth  Edmund  in  the  direct  line  of  descent;  the  first 

10 


146  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

(1600-1666)  was  a  noted  disputant  in  the  days  of  the 
ParHament,  and  was  one  of  the  authors  of  Smec- 
tymnuus.  He  was  a  Pembroke  man.  His  grandson, 
the  grandfather  of  our  Edmund,  was  the  well-known 
historian  of  Nonconformity.  The  sixth  Edmund 
Calamy,  son  of  the  barrister,  was  bom  in  1780,  and 
died  in  1850. 

According  to  Hubbard,  the  stipend  of  an  ordinary 
Fellow  of  the  College  from  the  general  revenues  of  the 
College  was  £5  in  each  half-year.  The  four  senior 
Fellows  had  an  additional  £S  in  each  half-year  from 
the  Pinchbeck  Estates.  The  revenues  from  certain 
trust  estates,  as  those  left  by  Dean  Sudbury  and 
Dr.  Whichcote,  and  the  annual  payment  by  the  Borough 
of  Lynn,  are  divided  in  four  proportions  between  the 
Master,  the  Fellows,  and  the  Scholars.  Fines  for  the 
renewal  of  leases  and  sealing  fees  are  also  divided. 
Under  the  old  leases  several  of  the  College  tenants  are 
obliged  to  furnish  to  the  College  a  certain  quantity  of 
corn  or  a  certain  number  of  capons,  usually  four  in  the 
half-year,  or  to  pay  an  equivalent,  at  half  a  crown  a 
capon  in  cash.  This  was  called  '  capon  money ,"*  and  was 
similarly  divided.  The  revenue  from  underwoods  at 
Gransden  and  Ellerby  was  also  kept  separate,  and 
dealt  with  in  this  way  ;  and  the  admission  fees,  the 
buttery  profits,  and  certain  payments  made  by  Bachelors 
on  attaining  their  degrees,  were  also  divided.  These 
explanations  may  help  to  make  Hubbard's  statement 
of  his  income  intelligible : 


HUBBARD^S  TUTORSHIP 


147 


Fellowship  Income. 
1734.     To  Easter  Audit  1735. 


&   s.    d. 


Div^  of  Whichcot  &  Sudbury  to  Michs. 

last 

0 

17 

11 

Thorpe's  Commemoration  ... 

0 

5 

0 

Diyd  of  Day's  Fine  &  Sealing  Fees  ... 

0 

15 

6 

B.A.'s  Priorum     ... 

0 

19 

2 

Div^  of  Wood  Money  to  Michs.  last ... 

0 

17 

7 

Div^i  of  Kettle's  Fine  &  Fees 

2 

0 

0 

Diyd  of  Whichcot  &  Sudbury  to  L.  Day 

0 

17 

11 

Div<*   of  Admission,   Capon,  &   Lynn 

Money 

1 

11 

1 

Stipend... 

5 

0 

0 

Div<i  in  ye  Butteries  Michs.  QM 734  ... 

1 

4 

11 

do.                   Xmas.  QM734... 

1 

7 

3 

Increment  for  y®  last  year  ... 

1 

1 

1 

16" 

16 

11 

To  Michs,  Audit  1735. 

Corn  Money  to  Michs.  last ... 

1 

11 

6 

Diyd  in  y«  Butteries  Easter  QM 735  ... 

0 

13 

2 

do.                 Mids^Q'-  1735   ... 

0 

13 

2 

Div*^  of  Admissions,  Capon  and  Lynn 

Money 

1 

4 

6 

Stipend'... 

5 

0 

0 

M.A's  Money,  &c. 

3 

9 

2 

Year's  Fellowship  besides  Commons        30     4  10 

To  this  in  the  year  in  question  was  added  stipend  as 
Sub-Lecturer  £1,  and  for  reading  in  chapel  £5  12s. 
The  offices  of  Dean,  of  Head  Lecturer,  and  of  Steward, 
were  circulating  offices,  and  brought,  from  time  to  time, 

10—2 


148  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

considerable  additions  to  the  Fellow's  income.     Thus, 
for  the  year  1738  Mr.  Hubbard's  summing  is  : 

£  s.  d. 

Year's  Fellowship                ...             ...  37  8  2 

Reading  in  Chapel               ...              ...  3  0  0 

Steward's  Place,  ending  March  1, 1737  19  17  6 

Lecturer's  Place,  ending  Oct.  1,  1738  19  12  0 

Dean's  Place,  ending  Oct.  1,  1738     ...  19  1  8 

Library  Keeper    ...              ...              ...  10  0  0 

108   19     4 

Hubbard  has  left  a  complete  statement  of  his  in- 
come from  all  these  sources  for  each  year  from  1732 
to  1733.  His  average  income  as  Fellow  during  that 
time  was  less  than  .^38  a  year.  It  was  as  much  a^  ^50  in 
1769  and  in  1773,  and  sank  as  low  as  £9.^  6s.  7d.  in 
1748.  In  1764  it  increased  suddenly  to  .^48  10s.  4Jd., 
a  circumstance  which  is  alluded  to  in  Bennet's  note 
quoted  below.  Though  this  seems  very  small,  it  is  not 
so  when  compared  with  the  whole  College  income.  In 
a  letter  of  Dillingham's  to  Sancroft  of  1665,  he  mentions 
that  at  the  time  of  the  Ash  benefaction  (1654)  the 
revenues  of  the  College  amounted  to  ^550.  Nor  does 
it  seem  to  have  risen  much  in  the  next  100  years, 
for  in  a  statement  of  income  for  taxation  in  April, 
1799,  it  *  was  estimated,  according  to  the  directions  of 
39  George  III.,  that  the  sum  of  forty-eight  pounds  is 
not  less  than  one  tenth  thereof.'  The  first  indication 
of  a  substantial  advance  is  in  1822,  when,  owing  to  '  the 
progressive  improvement  of  the  income  of  y®  College,' 
the  Master  received  an  additional  ^120  and  each  Fellow 
<£>30  per  annum. 


HUBBARD'S  TUTORSHIP  149 

Hubbard  also  held  the  Algebra  Lecturership  from  1746 
to  1768,  with  a  stipend  of  about  £24*.  He  was  Steward 
thrice,  Dean  thrice.  Lecturer  twice,  Praelector  once. 
As  an  instance  of  the  care  with  which  he  kept  these 
accounts,  it  may  be  mentioned  that  in  1763  appears  the 
first  entry  of  a  receipt  of  Is.  8d.  for  '  Visiting.'  To  this 
entry  there  is  the  following  note:  *N.B.  I  have  not 
brought  this  article  to  account  in  this  book  before,  but 
deducted  it  for  Pocket  Expenses."*  During  a  part  of 
1741  he  records  that  he  was  allowed  ^1  for  commons 
*  as  being  in  College,  but  obliged  to  live  at  Catherine 
Hall."*  The  reason  of  his  temporary  exile  does  not 
appear,  but  he  was  actively  engaged  in  College  business 
throughout  the  year,  and  signed  all  the  orders. 

Reference  has  been  made  to  the  dividend  arising  from 
profits  in  the  buttery.  An  entry  in  the  order-book  of 
date  March  1,  1734,  says:  '  Agreed  that  no  fellow  shall 
be  entitled  to  his  Dividend  in  the  Butteries,  who  is  not 
in  commons  and  actually  resident  the  major  part  of  the 
month.'  Bennet  in  his  register  has  a  note  on  the 
'  Money  divided  among  the  Fellows  from  the  savings  in 
the  Butteries  and  Degree  Money  for  twenty  years,  1760 
to  1779.  (N.B.  The  College  for  half  this  time  was 
very  thin,  and  the  other  half  very  full.)'  He  states  the 
average  for  that  time  as  £35  from  the  butteries  and 
£S2  from  degrees,  and  says  that  the  increase  in  1764 
was  attributed  to  the  fact  that  the  College  raised  the 
price  of  beer.     He  goes  on  to  say : 

'By  an  average  this  makes  a  difference  to  a  Resident 
Fellow  of  £10  per  annum;  so  that  supposing  a  Man  to 
reside  the  whole  twenty  years  he  will  receive  an  addition 
to  his  Fellowship  of  £200,  no  contemptible  sum.    Yet  it  is 


150  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

curious  enough  that  a  great  part  of  the  Society  are  ignorant 
from  what  these  Dividends  arise,  and  whether  they  are 
imposed  upon  or  no  by  the  Butler  in  stating  them.' 

As  to  the  University  offices  of  Moderator,  Taxor, 
and  Regis trary  which  were  held  by  Hubbard,  it  is  of 
interest  to  know  that  at  Stourbridge  Fair  in  1730  the 
Taxor  received  £4i  5s.  3d.  for  'weighing  Hops  and 
measuring  Mustard  Seed,'  that  of  this  15s.  4|d.  was 
spent  on  'Bottled  Ale,  Ale,  and  Small,'  and  6d.  in 
coach  hire  from  the  fair. 

At  the  end  of  the  volume  which  contains  the  catalogue 
of  his  books,  Mr.  Hubbard  entered  a  careful  inventory 
of  the  furniture  of  his  College  rooms.   The  list  includes  : 

'Picture  of  Mr.  Canning,  by  Gainsborough,  valued  at 
£5  5s.,  the  frame  i>l  lis.  6d. ;  small  picture  of  Mr.  Canning 
in  black  and  white  by  Ferguson,  15s.;  my  picture  by 
Heines  £5  5s.,  frame  £l  lis.  6d.  ;  a  long  Telescope,  present 
from  Mr.  Canning,  cost  2"^*^  hand  £3  3s.  ;  cane  with  gold 
head,  present  from  Sir  Richard  Chase,  1757  ;  and  a  Stick 
with  amber  head  mounted  in  silver,  present  from  Green 
of  Preston  near  Shields,  1758.* 

Sir  Richard  Chase  was  an  old  pupil  who  came  up 
from  Bishop's  Stortford  School  in  1739,  the  son  of 
Richard  Chase,  gentleman,  of  Much  Haddam,  Hert- 
fordshire. Mr.  Canning  was  Hubbard's  great  friend,  a 
member  of  Catharine  Hall,  where  he  graduated  B.A.  in 
1728,  perpetual  curate  of  St.  Lawrence,  Ipswich,  Rector 
of  Harkstead  and  of  Freston,  and  Vicar  of  Ruston.  He 
was  a  keen  student  of  local  history,  translated  and 
edited  the  Ipswich  charters,  and  rewrote  and  edited  a 
county  history,  published  as  The  Suffolk  Traveller.    He 


HUBBARD^S  TUTORSHIP  151 

died  in  1775.  Among  the  admissions  in  1758  is 
recorded  that  of  'Richard,  son  of  the  Revd.  Richard 
Canning,  born  at  Ipswich,  Suffolk,  educated  at  Bury 
School,  Mr  Garnham  M%  aet.  18."  The  younger 
Richard  succeeded  his  father  as  Rector  of  Harkstead  in 
1769,  and  died  twenty  years  later.  A  letter,  which 
lies  loose  in  the  catalogue  of  Hubbard'^s  books,  refers 
to  his  will :  '  And  I  give  and  bequeath  to  the  Master, 
Fellows  and  Scholars  of  Emmanuel  College  in  Cam- 
bridge, my  picture  of  the  late  Rev.  Henry  Hubbard, 
together  with  the  books  bequeathed  by  him  to  me.' 
The  picture  is  now  in  the  gallery. 

At  his  death,  January  23,  1778,  Hubbard  left  ^400 
to  provide  an  augmentation  to  the  Fellowship  held  by 
the  senior  Fellow  of  the  College ;  also  .^400,  the  interest 
of  which  is  to  be  paid  to  the  best  proficient  in  classical 
learning  among  Dr.  Thorpe's  scholars ;  and  i;^200,  the 
interest  to  be  added  to  the  £6  left  by  Dean  Sudbury,  for  a 
piece  of  plate  to  be  bestowed  upon  the  most  pious  and 
best  learned  of  the  commencing  Bachelors  of  Arts  in 
the  College.  He  also  made  the  College  his  residuary 
legatee,  and  thus  it  received  some  ^4,000  in  addition 
to  the  <£1,000  given  to  special  objects,  and  this,  as 
Bennet  puts  it, 

'  by  mere  good  fortune,  for  it  was  always  Mr.  Hubbard's 
intention  (having  no  near  relations)  to  have  left  that  £1,000 
only  to  the  College,  and  the  bulk  of  his  fortune  to  his 
friend  Mr.  Canning  of  Ipswich,  who  luckily  dying  first  the 
whole  was  left  to  us.  The  College  disposed  of  X2,700  in 
increasing  the  Mastership  £40  per  annum,  and  the  4 
Senior  Fellowships  £10  per  annum,  and  applied  the  rest 
to  the  public  uses  of  the  College.* 


CHAPTER  VIII 

MASTEESHIP  OF  BICHARD  FARMER  (1775-1797) 

The  last  College  order  signed  by  Richardson  is  dated 
February  14,  1775,  and  before  another  month  was  over 
he  was  dead.  Hubbard  was  elected  to  succeed  him,  but 
declined  the  office,  and  on  March  21,  1775,  Richard 
Farmer  was  unanimously  elected.  He  was  a  great 
contrast  both  to  his  predecessor  and  to  Hubbard, 
whom  he  had  succeeded  in  the  tutorship  in  1767,  for  as 
Tutor  he  had  a  poor  reputation  for  business  habits  ;  he 
often  neglected  to  send  in  his  accounts,  and  for  many 
years  had  considerable  sums  owing  to  him.  But  he  had 
already  attained  a  distinct  position  in  the  literary  world 
outside  the  College.  He  was  an  F.S.A.,  and  nine  years 
before  his  election  had  published  the  work  for  which 
he  is  best  known  now — the  Essay  on  the  Learning  of 
Shakespear.  This  essay  showed  an  extraordinary  know- 
ledge of  old  English  literature,  and  established  once 
for  all  the  fact  that  the  plays  could  be  accounted  for 
without  attributing  to  Shakespeare  a  learning  which  all 
his  contemporaries  denied  him.  His  reputation  was 
the  cause  of  Dr.  Johnson's  one  visit  to  Cambridge 
in  1765,  of  which  an  interesting  account  exists.     He 

152 


FARMER^S  MASTERSHIP  153 

was  also  known  to  have  been  long  engaged  on  a 
history  of  Leicester,  in  which  town  he  was  born  in 
1735.  But  on  his  election  to  the  mastership  he  re- 
turned the  subscriptions  and  handed  over  the  materials 
which  he  had  collected  to  Nichols,  who  embodied  them 
in  his  History  of  Leicester  shire.  Farmer  held  several  pre- 
ferments in  the  Church — Whitehall  Preacher  in  1769, 
Prebend  and  Chancellor  of  Lichfield  in  1780,  Canon 
of  Canterbury  in  1782,  and  of  St.  PauPs  in  1788.  In  all 
situations  of  life  he  seems  to  have  exhibited  the  same 
characteristics  :  he  was  careless  of  dress  and  appearance  ; 
devoted  to  literature,  though  too  indolent  to  produce 
any  work  of  importance ;  enthusiastic  as  a  collector  of 
books,  yet  careless  as  to  their  preservation  or  integrity ; 
keen  as  a  Churchman  and  Tory  politician,  yet  never 
taking  an  active  part  either  in  Church  work  or  politics. 
He  refused  a  bishopric,  and  was  content  to  enjoy  the  life 
of  the  combination-room  and  of  the  literary  clubs.  Three 
things  it  was  said  he  loved  above  all  else — old  port,  old 
clothes,  and  old  books.  He  appears  to  have  retained 
the  tutorship  for  some  years  after  his  election  to 
the  mastership,  but  becoming  University  Librarian  in 
1780,  he  resigned  the  tutorship,  and  was  succeeded  by 
Rennet.  Though  thus  careless  and  ease-loving,  in- 
vincibly averse  from  getting  out  of  bed  or  going  to  bed, 
or  settling  an  account,  his  kindness  and  good-nature 
preserved  the  peace  in  College,  which  had  so  often 
been  disturbed  under  his  predecessors,  and  secured  the 
affection  and  admiration  of  the  Fellows. 

The  account  of  him  given  by  Gunning  throws  some 
light  upon  the  social  habits  of  the  day  in  the  College, 
which   had  become  on  the  one  hand  extremely  Tory 


154  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

and  orthodox,  and  on  the  other  noted  for  a  certain 
moderate  conviviality,  tinged  in  Farmer's  time,  at  any 
rate,  with  an  interest  in  letters.  As  an  illustration  of 
the  latter,  it  may  be  noted  that  in  a  list  of  persons 
helped  from  the  offertory  money  collected  in  the 
chapel  occurs  the  name  of  Mrs.  Chatterton,  mother  of 
the  unfortunate  poet  (1778).  Dinner  in  those  days  was 
at  half-past  one  or  two,  and  a  little  later  at  three ; 
it  was  after  the  evening  supper  that  pipes  and  tobacco 
and  cheerful  conversation  made  the  parlour  of  Emmanuel 
a  favourite  place  of  meeting.  Before  his  mastership 
Farmer  served  the  curacy  of  Swavesey  in  the  manner 
thus  described  by  Gunning : 

'  He  began  the  service  punctually  at  the  appointed  time 
and  gave  a  plain  practical  sermon,  strongly  enforcing  some 
moral  duty.  After  service  he  chatted  most  affably  with 
his  congregation,  and  never  failed  to  send  some  small 
present  to  such  of  his  poor  parishioners  as  had  been  kept 
from  church  by  illness.  After  morning  service  he  repaired 
to  the  public-house,  where  a  mutton-chop  and  potatoes 
were  soon  set  before  him  :  these  were  quickly  despatched, 
and  immediately  after  the  removal  of  the  cloth,  Mr.  Dobson 
(his  churchwarden)  and  one  or  two  of  the  principal  farmers, 
made  their  appearance,  to  whom  he  invariably  said,  "  I  am 
going  to  read  prayers,  but  shall  be  back  by  the  time  you 
have  made  the  punch."  Occasionally  another  farmer 
accompanied  him  from  church,  when  pipes  and  tobacco 
were  in  requisition  until  six  o'clock.  Taffy  was  then  led 
to  the  door,  and  he  conveyed  his  master  to  his  rooms  by 
half-past  seven ;  here  he  found  his  slippers  and  nightcap, 
and  taking  possession  of  his  elbow-chair,  he  slept  till  his 
bedmaker  aroused  him  at  nine  o'clock,  when  resuming  his 


FARMER'S  MASTERSHIP  155 

wig  he  started  for  the  Parlour,  where  the  fellows  were  in 
the  habit  of  assembling  on  a  Sunday  afternoon.' 

When  Farmer  became  Master  be  presided  over  these 
symposia  with  great  geniality,  and  the  parlour  was 
'  always  open  to  those  who  loved  pipes  and  cheerful  con- 
versation.' These  gatherings  were  specially  frequent  at 
the  end  of  the  long  vacation,  when  the  theatre  (standing 
where  the  Shakespear  Tavern  now  is)  was  open  for  about 
three  weeks  at  the  time  of  Stourbridge  Fafr.  Farmer 
constantly  had  a  party  staying  at  the  Lodge  for  this 
festivity,  and  with  other  well-known  Shakespearian 
scholars  —  such  as  Stevens  and  Malone — occupied  a 
particular  part  of  the  pit,  which  thus  became  known 
as  'the  critics'  row.'  They  came  nearly  every  day, 
stopped  to  the  end,  and  then  walked  to  the  Emmanuel 
parlour,  and  finished  the  evening  with  tobacco  and 
conversation. 

The  parlour  had  always  played  a  great  part  in  the 
social  life  of  the  College.  We  hear  of  it  from  the  first : 
it  was  noted  as  a  special  feature  of  the  College  by 
John  Evelyn  when  he  visited  'that  zealous  house'  in 
1654,  and  it  has  always  been,  as  it  continues  to  be,  the 
common  meeting  ground  of  the  society,  whether  for 
College  business  or  relaxation.  Early  in  the  eighteenth 
century,  when  dinner  ceased  to  be  the  early  noontide 
meal,  and  was  taken  as  late  as  three  or  even  four  in  the 
afternoon,  it  seems  to  have  been  regarded  as  the  end  of 
the  working  day  by  most,  and  was  followed  by  a  fairly 
prolonged  session  over  the  College  port,  which,  in 
the  summer  at  least,  was  followed  by  an  adjournment 
to  the  garden  and  a  game  of  bowls.     It  was  in  the 


156  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

evening  after  supper  that  the  members  met  again  to 
talk  and  smoke.  The  daily  meeting  in  the  parlour  led 
to  a  kind  of  organization.  A  body  of  rules  was  formed, 
which  were  enforced  by  fines,  always  in  bottles  of 
wine.  Some  of  the  rules  are  rather  fantastical,  but  on 
the  whole  they  served  their  purpose  of  keeping  up  a 
good  standard  of  manners  and  preventing  petty  quarrels 
and  personalities.  Penalties  were  imposed  for  coming 
late  into  Hall,  or  with  '  rolers  in  his  hair,'  for  leaving 
bowls  on  tlfe  lawn,  for  coming  into  Hall  in  a  new  coat 
(the  Lord  Westmorland  of  the  day  frequently  incurred 
this),  for  putting  one''s  fork  into  the  dish,  for  taking 
salt  out  of  the  salt-cellar  with  anything  but  the  salt- 
spoon,  for  using  nasty  or  offensive  words  at  dinner, 
or  taking  snuff  at  table,  or  '  reflecting  "*  on  a  member 
of  the  parlour,  and  other  such  social  offences.  Bets 
(always  in  bottles  of  wine)  were  also  of  nearly  daily 
occurrence.  The  parlour  books  recording  these  bets 
are  preserved  from  early  in  the  eighteenth  century. 
Many  of  them  are  now  unintelligible  (having  been  pur- 
posely put  obscurely),  many  more  are  upon  subjects 
that  could  never  have  had  much  interest,  and  have 
long  lost  what  they  had.  But  scattered  among  frivoli- 
ties or  officialisms  are  some  that  touch  on  public  events 
of  first-rate  interest  and  importance.  A  few  will  show 
how  contemporaries  viewed  these  great  events  : 

1770.  Lord  North  will  resign  before  next  Michaelmas. 

1779.  No  place  whatever  in  America  (except  Canada) 
in  the  hands  of  the  Loyalists  by  March  17,  1780. 

1780.  A  naval  engagement  between  Rodney  and  the 
French,  in  which  the  latter  are  beaten,  on  or  before 
June  30,  1781. 


FARMER'S  MASTERSHIP  167 

1787,  October  3.  Some  censure  passed  by  the  House  of 
Lords  against  Mr.  Hastings. 

1791,  Mai/  29.  Hastings  will  be  found  guilty. 

1792,  March  2.  The  majority  will  double  the  minority 
in  the  censure  of  Pitt. 

1792,  Juli/  13.  Neither  Austrians  nor  Prussians  at  Paris 
in  two  months'  time. 

1792,  November  13.  The  King  of  France  will  be  con- 
demned, but  not  executed. 

1793.  January  5.  If  the  King  of  France  is  ordered 
out  of  the  kingdom,  he  does  not  reach  the  frontiers  in 
safety. 

1793,  March  28.  The  Dauphin  not  put  to  death  in 
Easter  week. 

1793,  June  18.  Marat  will  be  murdered  before  the  end 
of  next  Lent  term. 

1793,  Jtme  26.  Valenciennes  in  the  hands  of  the  allied 
Powers  in  six  weeks. 

1793,  December  3.  Barrere  and  Robespierre  either  dead 
or  out  of  France  in  six  months. 

1794-,  March  27.  The  Convention  deposed  in  less  than 
six  months. 

1794,  April  26.  That  at  the  conclusion  of  the  war  the 
executive  power  in  France  will  not  be  in  the  hands  of  an 
individual. 

1794,  April  30  and  May  3.  The  war  will  be  over  in  two 
years. 

1794,  May  l6.  The  Duke  of  York  in  Paris  on  or  before 
June  20. 

These  optimistic  views  of  the  great  war  just  be- 
ginning were,  of  course,  destined  to  cost  their  backers 
sundry  bottles  of  wine.  We  presently  trace  the  progress 
of  the  war  by  taxes  and  falling  funds.     On  February  25, 


158  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

1795,  a  bet  is  made  that  '  there  are  not  more  than  six 
resident  members  of  the  College  that  will  not  take  out 
a  licence  to  wear  powder  within  three  months  after  the 
day  fixed  by  the  Act  of  Parliament/  A  truer  prophet 
(if  rather  previous)  bets  on  March  6  that  'there  will 
not  be  a  wig  in  two  years."*  The  effect  of  the  mutiny  at 
the  Nore  combined  with  the  war  is  shown  by  a  bet  on 
October  14,  1797,  that '  the  three  per  cents,  will  not  be 
52f  in  this  day's  paper.'  Meanwhile  confidence  in  the 
success  of  England  was  diminishing.  In  spite  of  the 
victory  of  St.  Vincent  (February  14,  1797)  having 
frustrated  the  Franco-Spanish  scheme  of  invasion,  there 
is  a  bet  on  the  28th  that  the  French  will  land  100  men 
within  a  month;  on  May  20,  that  Ireland  will  be  a 
department  of  France  within  two  years.  On  June  11 
the  execution  of  the  mutineer  Parker  is  betted  upon. 
Next  year  (1798),  on  January  22,  a  bet  is  made  that 
'the  French  will  not  land  1,000  men  in  Great  Britain 
or  Ireland  within  six  months.'  Next  the  national  sub- 
scription is  noticed,  with  a  list  of  Cambridge  contribu- 
tions, and  a  bet  that  Oxford  will  do  less.  The 
University  gave  1,000  guineas.  Trinity,  St.  John's,  and 
King's  500  guineas,  Emmanuel  and  Caius  coming  next 
with  200  guineas.  On  October  22  the  effect  of  the 
Battle  of  the  Nile  (August  1)  is  seen  by  a  bet  'that 
Bonaparte's  head  will  be  on  the  walls  of  the  Seraglio 
within  three  months.'  The  next  change  is  shown  by  a 
bet  on  November  19,  1799,  that  'Bonaparte,  Sieyes, 
and  Ducos  if  they  remain  in  office  six  months  will 
restore  royalty'  (after  the  coup  cTetat  of  November  9). 

During  the  next  fourteen  years  the  great  events  in 
the  Napoleonic  wars  are  only  occasionally  referred  to, 


FARMER'S  MASTERSHIP  159 

and  I  can  only  find  one  allusion  to  the  Peninsular  War. 
But  on  April  6,  1814,  there  are  two  pages  of  almost 
lyrical  exultation  over  the  entry  of  the  allies  into  Paris 
on  March  31 — news  of  which,  it  seems,  had  taken  a  week 
to  reach  Cambridge.  Many  members  of  the  parlour 
presented  bottles  of  wine  to  '  congratulate  the  world/ 
and  bets  are  made  that  Bonaparte  will  be  dead  or  in 
prison  in  a  month.  More  bottles  were  given  on 
April  14,  on  the  occasion  of  the  '  illumination  '  and  for 
the  downfall  of '  Signor  Bonaparte,**  and  on  'Louis  XVIII. 
being  called  to  the  throne  of  his  ancestors,"  and,  again, 
on  June  24  on  the  proclamation  of  peace.  The  escape 
from  Elba  (March  1,  1815)  is  indicated  by  a  bet  on 
March  13  that  Napoleon  *  will  be  either  a  prisoner  or 
sent  out  of  France  in  six  weeks."*  But  the  hundred  days 
and  Waterloo  itself  are  otherwise  unrecorded,  owing  to 
the  absence  of  most  Fellows  from  a  serious  fever  that 
occurred  at  that  time,  and  no  notice  of  public  affairs  is 
found  till  October  24,  when  a  somewhat  mysterious  bet 
is  made  :  '  Bonaparte  no  command  in  the  Northumber- 
land within  three  months."*  By  that  time  Napoleon  had 
been  more  than  a  week  in  St.  Helena,  but  some  timid 
member  of  the  parlour  seems  to  have  had  doubts  as  to 
his  being  safely  conveyed  there. 

These  specimens  will  be  sufficient  to  illustrate  the  social 
side  of  the  College  life  at  this  time.  Farmer  took  his 
full  share  in  it,  and,  in  spite  of  his  canonry  at  St.  PauFs, 
passed  most  of  his  time  in  College.  He  was  Vice- 
Chancellor  in  1775-76,  in  which  year  the  Senate  voted 
an  address  to  the  King  on  the  American  War ;  but  among 
a  minority  of  dissentients  was  one  which  had  the  key 
of  the  room  in  which  the  common  seal  of  the  University 


160  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

was  kept,  and  who  refused  to  produce  it  to  seal  the 
address,  whereupon  Farmer  is  said  to  have  broken  open 
the  door,  using  a  crowbar  with  his  own  hands.  But  if  he 
had  such  contentions  in  the  University,  his  mastership 
was  one  of  peace  in  College,  and  apparently  of  financial 
improvement,  the  Fellowships  being  generally  kept  up  to 
their  full  number,  and  their  value  not  being  less  than 
about  ^50 ;  while  the  debt  to  the  Rev.  R.  Richardson,  in- 
curred originally  for  including  the  Manor  of  Shemboum, 
and  which  amounted  in  time  to  ^1,100,  was  being 
gradually  paid  off.  Farmer  appears  never  to  have  aban- 
doned his  passion  for  book-collecting,  and  his  library 
contained  many  rarities — twelve  Caxtons,  a  First  Folio 
of  Shakespeare,  several  copies  of  the  first  edition  of 
Paradise  Lost,  and  hundreds  of  rare  tracts  and  plays. 
He  was  careless  as  to  the  preservation  of  these  treasures, 
and  his  copies  are  said  to  have  been  usually  in  a  bad 
condition.  Still,  the  collection  fetched  over  <^2,000  at 
his  death,  having  cost  him  little  more  than  ^500.  He 
belonged  to  many  clubs  in  London,  but  it  was  only  two 
years  before  his  death  that  he  was  elected  to  the 
greatest  of  them  all,  the  *  Literary  Club '  of  Johnson 
and  Reynolds.  The  portrait  of  Farmer — now  in  the 
combination-room — is  by  Romney,  with  whom  he  was 
personally  acquainted.  It  has  lately  been  cleaned  and 
restored,  and  gives  a  very  striking  illustration  of  the 
cheerfulness  attributed  to  him  by  his  contemporaries.  In 
his  mastership  the  College  celebrated  its  two-hundredth 
anniversary.  Of  the  first  centenary  (1684)  there  is 
no  record  of  any  celebration,  and  the  College  at  that 
time  was  at  a  low  ebb  in  all  respects.  But  in  1784? 
things  were  better,  and  a  great  banquet  was  given  on 


FARMER'S  MASTERSHIP  161 

September   29    to   celebrate    the   bicentenary   of    the 
foundation. 

The  account  in  the  Cambridge  Chronicle  of  October  2 
speaks  of  a  sermon  and  Te  Deum  and  a  Latin  speech 
in  the  chapel,  commemorating  the  benefactors,  with  a 
special  anthem  composed  by  the  Professor  of  Music, 
followed  by  a  banquet  in  Hall  and  a  dessert  in  the  long 
gallery.  The  founder's  family  was  represented  by  the 
Earl  of  Westmorland,  and  among  the  past  members 
invited  are  mentioned  the  Hon.  Mr.  Cockayne,  Sir 
Edmund  Bacon,  Sir  John  Cotton,  Sir  Edward  Lyttleton, 
Sir  Richard  Chase,  Sir  J.  B.  Warren.  It  was  also 
attended  by  William  Pitt,  recently  elected  member  for 
the  University  and  just  appointed  Chancellor  of  the 
Exchequer,  as  well  as  by  the  Vice-Chancellor  and  other 
University  officials.  The  paragraph  goes  on  to  speak 
with  admiration  of  the  'attention  of  the  Master  and 
society  to  accommodate  their  numerous  guests,'  and  of 
'the  decency  and  propriety  mixed  with  the  convivial 
good-humour  of  the  whole.'  Gunning  in  his  reminiscences 
gives,  after  his  wont,  a  rather  more  frivolous  account 
of  the  festivity,  recording  the  lively  turtles  to  be  seen  in 
tubs  at  the  Lodge,  and  the  song  of  the  Music  Professor 
in  the  character  of  a  drunken  man.  He  had  heard 
also  from  his  father,  who  seems  to  have  been  a 
guest,  that  Pitt  was  'the  life  and  soul  of  the  party.' 
The  celebration  seems  to  have  been  little  more 
than  a  somewhat  elaborate  commemoration  of  bene- 
factors, and  no  allusion  to  it  found  its  way  into  the 
order-book.  It  was  on  this  occasion  that  it  was 
arranged  to  have  engravings  made  of  Farmer's  portrait, 
which  gave  rise  to  a  rather  poor  J^m  (Tesprit,  which, 

11 


162  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

however,   has   the   merit   of   telling    us    one    or    two 
facts : 

'  As  to  the  eating  part,  of  that 
Good  plenty  was  at  hand  ; 
Twelve  bucks  in  larder,  firm  and  fat, 
From  good  Lord  Westmorland. 

'  Melons  and  pines  from  Stevens  came 
(Stevens  himself  a  feast), 
Huge  hampers  of  outlandish  game. 
And  turtles  ready  drest. 

'  To  crown  the  whole  with  one  good  laugh. 
The  Master  (merry  elf!) 
Hands  round  proposals  to  engrave 
A  likeness  of  himself.' 

When  the  College  had  lived  through  another  century, 
the  anniversary  was  celebrated  on  a  much  more 
elaborate  scale.  It  may  be  as  well  here,  once  for  all, 
to  notice  this  later  celebration  side  by  side  with  the 
older  one.  The  Master  was  then  the  Rev.  S.  G. 
Phear,  the  Senior  Tutor  was  Mr.  W.  Chawner  (since 
Master),  the  Steward  Mr.  W.  N.  Shaw,  and  the  Bui-sar 
the  Rev.  A.  Rose.  These  officers  took  great  and  most 
successful  pains  to  make  the  celebration  effective.  In- 
vitations were  sent  to  Harvard  College,  Massachusetts, 
which  was  accordingly  represented  by  Professor  Charles 
Eliot  Norton,  and  to  the  American  Minister,  James 
Russell  Lowell,  who  also  attended.  The  founder's 
family  was  represented  by  Sir  Henry  Mildmay,  the  Earl 
of  Westmorland  being  unable  to  come.  About  209 
members  of  the  College  also  accepted  the  invitation, 
an4  w^ere  accommodated  in  the  College  rooms  or  in  those 


from  a  />/ioio_i;ra//i  by  \ 


[J.  Fainter  Clarke,  Ca)i/o>  iiii^i 


THE   HALL 


FARMER'S  MASTERSHIP  163 

lent  by  Chrisfs  College.  The  New  Court  was  covered 
in  with  a  tent,  and  a  banquet  in  the  hall  on  June  18 
was  followed  by  a  great  luncheon  in  the  tent  on  the 
19th.  At  the  commemoration  service  in  chapel  on  the 
morning  of  the  19th,  the  sermon  was  preached  by 
Dr.  Harold  Browne,  Bishop  of  Winchester,  a  former 
Fellow  and  Tutor,  and  a  special  anthem  was  composed 
by  the  Music  Professor,  Sir  G.  A.  Macfarren.  As  in 
the  earlier  celebration,  the  banquet  was  attended  by  the 
members  for  the  University,  the  Vice-Chancellor,  Heads 
of  houses,  and  other  University  officials.  The  presence 
of  the  American  Minister,  and  of  Professor  Norton, 
representing  Harvard,  was  felt  to  give  the  proceedings 
a  special  interest,  as  illustrating  the  earliest  history  of 
the  College  and  the  continuity  of  its  connexions  and 
influence  throughout  its  history.  Mr.  Norton  in  his  two 
speeches  dwelt  at  length  on  the  connexion  of  Emmanuel 
with  the  early  Puritan  movement  and  with  the  men  who 
made  so  great  a  figure  in  New  England  in  the  seventeenth 
century.  The  twenty  years  which  have  followed  this 
celebration  have  been  years  of  steady  growth,  becoming 
in  the  last  ten  almost  phenomenal,  and  it  does  not  seem 
altogether  chimerical  to  trace  in  it  some  effect  of  this 
carefully  arranged  and  liberally  conducted  festival, 
which  made  the  material  and  intellectual  expansion  of 
the  College  widely  known. 

Farmer  died  on  September  8,  1797,  and  was  suc- 
ceeded by  Robert  Towerson  Cory  (Fellow  1782)  on  the 
15th  of  the  same  month.  His  death  seems  to  mark 
the  end  of  the  ancient  history  of  the  College :  Cory's 
mastership,  which  lasted  till  1835,  brings  us  within 
the  memory  of  some  still  surviving.      We  may  here, 

11—2 


164  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

therefore,  conclude  this  period  of  the  College  history 
by  mentioning  some  names  of  those  who,  having  been 
in  the  College  as  Farmer's  contemporaries  or  pupils,  after- 
wards attained  distinction.  Among  classical  scholars 
may  be  mentioned  Samuel  Parr  (1747-1825),  who  entered 
the  College  in  October,  1765,  but  was  obliged  to  leave 
at  the  end  of  the  next  year,  on  the  death  of  his  father, 
who  left  him  very  slenderly  provided.  He  became  a 
master  at  Harrow,  and  in  1771,  becoming  a  candi- 
date for  the  headmastership,  took  his  M.A.  by  royal 
mandate.  Failing  to  become  headmaster  of  Harrow,  he 
obtained  the  masterships  of  other  schools,  and  long  had 
a  private  school  of  his  own.  Finally  he  held  the  living' 
of  Hatton,  and  was  Prebendary  of  St.  PauPs.  He 
enjoyed  great  reputation  as  a  Latinist,  and  as  a 
strenuous  supporter  of  Whig  opinions.  He  had  kept 
his  name  on  the  books  of  the  College,  but  in  1784 
migrated  to  St.  John's,  being  admitted  there  on 
April  10.  In  later  life,  however,  he  frequently 
visited  Emmanuel,  and  was  a  member  of  the  parlour 
for  some  years,  and  seems,  from  various  anecdotes 
surviving,  to  have  sometimes  behaved  in  the  over- 
bearing way  which  made  him  somewhat  notorious 
elsewhere.  For  instance,  when  in  1814  a  certain  John 
Griffith  (afterwards  Canon  of  Rochester)  was  elected 
Fellow,  he  was  introduced  to  Parr  in  the  parlour,  who 
replied  by  asking,  '  A  Welshman  ?'  and  when  Griffith 
owned  the  charge.  Parr  blurted  out,  '  I  never  knew  a 
Welshman  who  was  not  a  rascal, "*  and  turned  his  back. 
The  fiery  Cambrian  insisted  on  an  apology,  and  got  it, 
but  a  good  many  others  suffered  in  silence.  Parr, 
however,   was  attached  to  the  College  in  spite  of  his 


FARMER'S  MASTERSHIP  165 

radical  politics,  subscribed  c£*100  at  the  time  of  the  fire, 
and  gave  books  to  the  library.  An  editio  princeps  of 
Aristophanes,  which  had  once  belonged  to  Sir  Samuel 
Romilly,  contains  a  letter  addressed  to  Cory  in  1819 
in  which  he  says,  '  I  cannot  help  smiling  when  I 
recollect  that  your  Tory  Rory  College  is  to  have  a 
present  tainted  in  its  progress  to  you  by  the  politics 
of  two  such  naughty  Whigs  as  Sir  Samuel  Romilly  and 
Samuel  Parr.'  The  College  also  now  possesses  his 
silver  pipe  and  tobacco-box. 

Another  distinguished  name  is  that  of  Sir 
William  Gell  (1777-1836),  who  became  Dixie  Fellow 
in  1798  (having  graduated  from  Jesus).  He  pub- 
lished as  early  as  1804  a  book  on  the  Troad,  and 
afterwards  made  elaborate  tours  in  the  Morea  and 
other  parts  of  Greece,  of  which  he  wrote  accounts 
of  considerable  topographical  value.  Later  in  life  he 
resided  in  Italy,  and  entertained  Sir  Walter  Scott  at 
Naples  and  Pompeii,  of  which  last  he  published  an 
account  in  1832.  Though,  of  course,  much  of  what  he 
wrote  is  now  superseded,  it  was  published  at  a  time 
when  little  was  known  in  Western  Europe  of  Greece, 
or  of  the  classical  remains  in  Italy.  Among  his  friends 
at  Emmanuel  was  Thomas  Young  (1773-1829),  who, 
after  studying  in  Germany  and  elsewhere,  came  as  a 
Fellow-commoner  to  Emmanuel  in  1797,  and  remained 
there  three  years  in  order  to  take  a  medical  degree. 
His  discoveries  of  the  undulatory  theory  of  light  and 
of  the  key  to  the  interpretation  of  Egyptian  inscriptions 
were  only  part  of  his  immense  services  to  science,  which 
made  his  name  famous  throughout  the  world.  The  por- 
trait in  the  combination  room  is  a  copy  of  the  original. 


166  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

His  monument  in  Westminster  Abbey  is  by  Chantrey. 
Farmer's  successor  in  the  tutorship  was  William 
Bennet,  a  name  which  deserves  well  of  an  historian  of 
Emmanuel,  for  he  recopied  and  continued  Richardson's 
register  of  the  College,  and  made  considerable  collections 
of  papers,  letters,  and  anecdotes  illustrating  its  history. 
He  was  a  good  scholar,  especially  as  a  Latinist,  but  his 
work  on  the  Roman  roads  in  Britain  is  not  of  permanent 
value.  He  went,  as  his  chaplain,  with  Lord  West- 
morland— a  former  pupil — when  Lord-Lieutenant  of 
Ireland,  and  in  1790  was  made  Bishop  of  Cork,  and 
translated  to  Cloyne  in  1794.  Like  other  Irish  Bishops, 
he  spent  many  of  his  later  years  in  London,  where  he 
died  in  1820.  About  1785  Emmanuel  also  became  the 
residence  of  Sir  Busick  Harwood,  Professor  of  Anatomy, 
who  removed  thither  from  Christ's,  till  his  marriage  in 
1798.  He  seems  to  have  done  a  good  deal  for  the 
anatomical  studies  of  the  place,  and  on  the  founding  of 
Downing  College  was  the  first  Downing  Professor  of 
Medicine.  Till  a  few  yeai-s  ago  there  was  a  human 
skeleton  in  the  antechapel,  said  to  have  been  that 
used  by  him  in  his  lectures,  delivered  at  four  o'clock 
in  the  afternoon  in  term  time,  though  a  fond  tradi- 
tion would  have  it  to  be  the  bones  of  a  Fellow-com- 
moner of  the  seventeenth  century  who  was  killed  in  a 
duel. 

A  picture  of  what  must  have  been  rather  the  seamy  side 
of  undergraduate  life  in  the  middle  of  the  eighteenth 
century,  about  the  time  of  Farmer's  and  Bennet's 
undergraduateship,  is  given  in  the  memoir  of  the  Rev. 
Dr.  Trusler  published  in  1806.  Trusler  entered  the 
College  in  1754,  and  resided  three  years.     He  seems 


FARMER^S  MASTERSHIP  167 

to    have    wasted   his   time,  and   in    after  years  thus 
comments  on  University  life  : 

'  Young  men  of  fortune  are  sometimes  sent  to  the 
Universities  that  they  may  boast  of  having  had  a  University 
education,  or  more  probably  to  keep  them  out  of  harm's 
way  at  that  critical  period  of  their  life  when  their  passions 
are  afloat  and  outstrip  their  reason.  Study  is  out  of  the 
question  ;  they  keep  their  horses,  and  sometimes  their  girls, 
and  attend  but  little  to  academical  exercises.  As  to  pro- 
fessional students  (some  very  few  excepted),  they  are 
worse  scholars  at  leaving  College  than  at  their  admission. 
I  heard  one  Tutor  once  censure  a  young  man  at  lectures, 
who  had  been  nearly  three  years  at  College,  by  saying  that 
he  knew  less  than  a  freshman  which  sat  next  him.  '*  Well, 
and  what  of  that.^"  retorts  the  youth:  "he  is  but  just  come 
from  school."  As  to  the  Fellow-commoners,  they  were 
always  at  Cambridge  called  "empty-bottles"  from  the  follow- 
ing circumstance  that  occurred  at  Emmanuel.  Wine-mer- 
chants send  their  porters  occasionally  round  the  Colleges 
to  collect  the  bottles :  one  of  these  men,  during  the  hour 
of  lecture,  knocked  at  the  lecture-room  door  by  mistake, 
and  called  out,  "  Empty  bottles  !"  The  Tutor,  then  out  of 
humour  at  being  attended  by  only  one  Fellow-commoner, 
when  there  were  twenty  in  College,  cried  out,  "  Call  again 
another  time  ;  I  have  now  but  one."  ' 

This  soon  got  wind,  and  these  young  gentlemen  of 
the  first  class  went  afterwards  throughout  the  University 
by  the  name  of  '  empty  bottles.'  He  then  goes  on  to 
tell  how  he  became  much  sought  after  in  College, 
because,  soon  after  his  admission, 

'strolling  round  the  boundary,  I  perceived  a  key  left  in 
the  gate  at  the  lower  end  of  the  adjoining  close,  through 


168  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

which  the  gardener  was  wheeling  dung.  I  took  the  oppor- 
tunity, whilst  he  was  at  dinner,  to  take  this  key  to  a 
neighbouring  smith,  got  an  impression  struck  off  in  thin 
iron,  brought  it  back,  and  replaced  it  unnoticed.  From 
this  impression  I  had  a  key  made,  and  as  our  gates  were 
locked  at  six  in  winter  and  nine  in  summer,  and  the  name 
of  everyone  who  entered  after  these  hours  was  carried  up 
by  the  porter  to  the  Master  of  the  College,  with  the  time 
of  his  coming  in,  and  he  was  reprimanded  and  punished 
according  to  his  irregularity,  everyone  wished  to  become 
my  friend,  with  a  view  of  benefiting  occasionally  by  this 
my  ticket  of  admission.' 

But  if  such  defiance  of  authority  was  possible,  outward 
respect  to  the  officials  was  enforced  with  some  rigour : 

'It  was  a  custom  at  our  College,  if  an  undergraduate 
passed  through  one  of  the  quadrangles  when  a  Fellow  of 
the  College  was  in  view,  to  walk  with  his  cap  in  his  hand, 
let  the  weather  be  what  it  might.  Being  always  troubled 
with  weak  eyes,  one  day,  when  it  mizzled,  I  omitted  this 
ceremony,  and  as  a  punishment  I  was  ordered  to  translate 
Caesar's  Gallic  Wars,  from  his  Latin  Commentaries,  about 
half  an  octavo  volume,  and  to  keep  my  room  till  it  was 
done.  So  severe  a  punishment  for  so  slight  an  offence 
roused  my  pride,  and  the  Christmas  vacation  of  a  month 
approaching,  not  having  done  it,  I  was  refused  leave  to  go 
home.  Taking,  therefore,  French  leave,  on  my  return  I 
was  rusticated — that  is,  banished  from  College  sine  die, 
during  the  pleasure  of  the  Master ;  who,  however,  recalled 
me  in  time,  so  that  I  did  not  lose  a  term.* 


CHAPTER  IX 

MASTEESHIPS  OF  K.  T.  CORY  (1797-1835),  G.  ARCH- 
DALL-GRATWICKE  (1835-1871),  S.  G.  PHEAR  (1871- 
1895),  AND  WILLIAM  CHAWNER,  THE  PRESENT 
MASTER 

The  mastership  of  Robert  Towerson  Cory  was  not  a 
period  of  much  movement  or  distinction  for  the  College. 
He  was  himself  Professor  of  Moral  Philosophy  from  1809 
to  1813,  but  he  does  not  seem  to  have  attracted  much 
ability  to  the  College.  A  few  men  of  some  note  who 
were  about  his  contemporaries  were  still  living — such  as 
Manners  Sutton,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury  (1805-1828), 
who  took  an  active  part  in  the  Evangelical  revival  in 
the  Church ;  Robert  Potter  (B.A.  1741),  author  of  a 
once  famous  translation  of  iEschylus,  as  well  as  of 
Euripides,  survived  till  1804,  as  Vicar  of  Lowestoft  and 
Canon  of  Norwich ;  Thomas  Young,  already  noticed, 
did  not  die  till  1829 ;  Charles  Long,  Lord  Farnborough, 
Paymaster-General,  in  1838  ;  Robert  Saunders  Dundas, 
Viscount  Melville,  First  Lord  of  the  Admiralty,  in  1851  ; 
Sir  William  Gell,  already  noticed,  in  1838;  George 
Dyer,  a  minor  poet,  in  1841,  with  some  others  of  more 
or  less  moderate  reputation.     Thomas  Percy,  editor  of 

169 


170  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

Percy"*s  Reliques,  and  Bishop  of  Dromore,  was  an  Oxford 
man,  but  became  connected  with  the  College  in  1780, 
when  he  took  the  degree  of  D.D.  from  Emmanuel,  and 
survived  till  1811.  But  there  does  not  appear  to  have 
been  successors  of  these  men  in  Cory's  time.  The 
numbers  continued  small :  the  entrances  from  1801  to 
1810  averaged  147  ;  from  1811  to  1820,  21  ;  from  1821 
to  1830,  21-8;  from  1831  to  1840,  17*1.  No  doubt 
the  war  accounts  for  the  fall  in  the  first  decade  to  some 
extent;  but  for  one  reason  or  another  the  first  forty 
years  of  the  nineteenth  century  saw  the  College  at  a 
low  point  as  to  numbers  and  credit.  Those  who  joined 
it  about  this  time  have  described  it  as  a  gentlemanly 
College,  in  which  few  did  serious  work,  while  sports- 
manship was  in  high  esteem.  On  a  hunting  morning 
some  dozen  horses,  it  is  said,  would  be  in  waiting  at  the 
College  gates.  We  look  in  vain  for  any  names  of 
distinction  among  the  Fellows.  In  the  last  years  of  the 
eighteenth  century  the  College  revenues  were  hampered 
by  the  expenses  of  two  lawsuits,  making  it  necessary  in 
1798  to  suspend  elections,  while  the  Gillingham  Fellow- 
ship continued  vacant  till  1801.  Then  the  insigne 
detrimentum  was  declared  to  be  at  an  end,  and  from 
that  time  the  financial  position  of  the  College  continued 
steadily  to  improve.  The  College  order-book  speaks 
now  rather  of  investing  surpluses  than  of  borrowing,  a 
state  of  things  apparently  not  seriously  affected  by  the 
fire  of  1811.  In  1807  a  considerable  addition  was 
made  to  the  various  stipends — ^£^160  to  the  Master, 
<^40  to  each  of  the  Fellows,  ^^^4  to  the  sizars,  6s. 
weekly  allowance  to  the  scholars,  with  £6  12s.  to  their 
annual  stipend.     These  additions  continue  to  recur  at 


CORY^S  MASTERSHIP  171 

intervals— in  1845, 1850, 1856— till  in  1861  the  average 
payments  were  reckoned  to  the  Master  =£^1,250,  the 
senior  seniorum  .£^318,  each  senior  £S06,  each  middle 
Fellow  £286,  each  junior  £268.  After  1861  the 
distinction  between  the  Fellows  disappeared,  and  each 
Fellow  had  the  same  stipend,  averaging  somewhat  over 
c^'SOO  per  annum,  till  the  new  statutes  of  1883  restricted 
it  to  ^£^250  per  annum. 

Attempts  to  raise  the  standard  of  teaching,  however, 
along  with  this  increasing  prosperity  were  somewhat 
few  and  slow.  The  first,  perhaps,  was  the  election  of 
E.  V.  Blomfield  from  Caius  (1813),  who  had  obtained  the 
first  Chancellor's  Medal  for  Classics.  He  was  a  brother 
of  another  scholar  famous  in  his  day,  C.  J.  Blomfield, 
Bishop  of  London.  He,  unfortunately,  died  in  1816, 
quite  young,  but  he  left  behind  him  a  translation  of 
Matthiae's  Gfeek  Gramma?^,  a  great  advance  on  anything 
then  existing  in  England,  and  the  first-fruits  of  the 
renewed  intercourse  with  the  Continent,  so  long  barred 
by  the  protracted  war.  A  tablet  to  his  memory  is  in 
the  College  cloister.  In  these  early  years  of  the  century 
the  number  of  resident  Fellows  seems  to  have  been  very 
small,  the  College  orders  being  seldom  signed  by  more 
than  five.  After  1818  the  number  steadily  increases, 
eight  or  ten  frequently  signing  the  order-book,  and 
seldom  less  than  seven.  In  the  election  of  Fellows,  also, 
increased  regard  began  to  be  paid  to  intellectual  fitness. 
The  old  stringent  examination,  which  Sancroft  spoke  of 
as  scaring  away  candidates,  seems  to  have  gradually  fallen 
into  neglect.  The  Tripos  list  no  doubt  was  taken  as 
an  equivalent,  but  even  that  had  not  been  strictly 
regarded.     In   1827,  however,   an   order   of   May   23 


172  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

directed  that  no  one  should  be  considered  properly 
qualified  for  a  Fellowship  whose  name  did  not  appear  in 
the  list  of  Wranglers  or  in  the  first  class  of  the  Classical 
Tripos  (established  1824),  or  among  the  Senior  Optimes 
and  second  class  Classical  Tripos,  with  the  reservation 
in  favour  of  any  other  University  honour  open  to  public 
competition.  Some  difficulty,  no  doubt,  occurred  in 
carrying  this  rule  out  from  the  regulation  as  to  no  two 
Fellows  being  of  the  same  county ;  at  any  rate,  it  was 
violated  in  the  same  year  by  the  election  of  Colbeck 
and  Bunch,  and  in  the  next  by  that  of  Dickson,  while 
some  Wranglers  and  one  first  class  man  are  passed  over. 
But  up  to  the  end  of  Cory's  mastership  Emmanuel  men 
are  very  rarely  found  in  either  Tripos.  In  1832,  by 
another  order,  a  double  method  of  selecting  Fellows 
appears  to  have  been  established.  Each  candidate  is 
*  to  be  placed  previously  to  examination  in  that  position 
relative  to  his  competitors  to  which  his  University 
distinction  may  entitle  him.'  Then,  however,  there  is 
to  be  an  examination,  and 

'  no  candidate  is  to  be  elected  who  shall  not  upon  examina- 
tion show  a  competent  proficiency  in  every  one  of  the 
subjects :  viz.,  Mathematics  and  Natural  Philosophy ; 
Hebrew,  Greek,  Latin ;  Elements  of  Theology,  especially 
the  Greek  Testament.* 

This  seems  to  mean  that  place  in  the  University  exam- 
ination is  to  decide  who  is  the  proper  person  to  elect, 
but  that  he  must  then  pass  a  qualifying  examination  in 
other  subjects.  If  this  scheme  was  ever  put  in  practice, 
it  did  not  long  survive — at  any  rate,  with  any  effect,  as 
it  was  impossible  that  it  should.     For  no  amount  of 


CORY'S  MASTERSHIP  173 

general  knowledge  would  really  counterbalance  great 
superiority  of  degree. 

But  the  final  clause  of  the  order  foreshadowed 
a  policy  which  has  distinguished  the  College  among 
others  in  Cambridge  in  recent  years :  '  In  the  event 
of  no  candidate  fulfilling  the  above  conditions,  that 
resource  be  had  to  some  other  College,  as  directed 
by  the  statutes."  This  was  not  often  resorted  to  for 
some  years :  W.  P.  Anderson  from  St.  John's  (1850), 
and  J.  B.  Pearson  from  the  same  College,  being  the 
only  examples  before  1870.  But  after  that  date,  be- 
ginning with  the  names  of  Hort  and  Greenhill,  there 
have  been  a  series  of  out-College  elections,  and  at  this 
day  six  of  the  foundation  Fellows  and  the  large  majority 
of  the  teaching  staff  are  from  other  Colleges.  The 
establishment  of  the  Dixie  Professorship  of  Ecclesiastical 
History  (1884),  endowed  partly  from  the  Dixie  Estate, 
and  partly  by  a  senior  Fellowship  of  Emmanuel,  has 
made  the  presence  of  at  least  one  out-College  man  almost 
certain  (for  though  the  Professor  may  be  a  member  of 
the  College,  the  office  is  open  to  all  the  world),  and  as  far 
as  it  has  existed  it  has  been  an  intellectual  benefit.  The 
first  election  took  place  in  1884,  and  brought  to  the 
College  the  late  Mandell  Creighton,  afterwards  Bishop 
successively  of  Peterborough  and  London,  whose  vigorous 
intellect,  wide  literary  sympathies,  and  absolute  disdain 
of  the  commonplace,  seemed  to  bring  a  breath  of  fresh 
air  into  the  College.  The  policy  of  seeking  for  ability 
wherever  it  was  to  be  found  had  already  proved  success- 
ful in  the  person  of  F.  J.  A.  Hort,  elected  in  1871,  when 
Rector  of  St.  Ippolyts  in  Hertfordshire.  Formerly  a 
Fellow  of  Trinity,  after  a  distinguished  undergraduate 


174  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

career,  he  brought  with  him  on  his  return  to  Cambridge 
the  habits  and  atmosphere  of  a  scholar's  life,  which,  com- 
bined with  great  liberality  and  breadth  of  view,  soon  won 
him  wide  influence  in  the  University,  and  proved  of  great 
value  at  the  period  when  the  College  was  (with  others) 
passing  through  a  rather  troublous  time  of  change. 
HorVs  services  to  the  criticism  of  the  Greek  Testament 
are  well  known,  and  were  (somewhat  inadequately) 
rewarded  by  the  Norrisian  and  Lady  Margaret  Professor- 
ships ;  but  the  influence  exercised  upon  his  surroundings 
by  his  indefatigable  industry  and  high  ideal  of  truth 
and  accuracy,  necessarily  less  well  known,  should  be 
recorded  here.     He  died  in  1892. 

These  developments  were  still  in  the  distant  future 
under  Cory's  administration,  but  it  is  only  fair  to  say 
that  they  were  in  accordance  with  a  policy  initiated  in 
his  time,  in  the  belief  that  the  way  to  make  the  College 
flourishing  and  popular  was  to  get  the  best  men  to 
conduct  its  teaching.  It  retained,  indeed,  its  sturdy 
Toryism  and  Churchmanship.  There  is  an  order  of 
February  14,  1829,  directing  the  College  seal  to  be 
aflixed  to  a  petition  to  both  Houses  of  Parliament 
against  the  Catholic  Relief  Bill,  though  the  order  is 
rescinded  two  days  later,  for  what  reason  does  not 
appear.  In  the  previous  year  the  College  subscribed 
c£100  for  the  establishment  of  King's  College,  London, 
which,  while  no  doubt  prompted  by  ecclesiastical 
motives,  shows  at  least  an  interest  in  education.  About 
the  same  time  measures  were  taken  to  repair  and  make 
available  the  College  library ;  and  while  the  financial 
position  admitted  of  the  erection  of  the  New  Court  near 
the  site  of  the  old  Bungay  Building,  without  borrowing 


ARCHDALL-GRATWICKF;S  mastership    175 

or  raising  subscriptions,  the  number  of  scholars  was 
well  maintained,  ten  being  admitted,  for  instance,  in 
one  day  in  1 829.  Among  them  is  the  name  of  a  man 
who  rose  to  some  distinction,  and  was  at  different 
periods  a  well-known  figure  in  the  College — Edward 
Harold  Browne,  afterwards  a  Fellow  (1837),  Norrisian 
Professor  of  Divinity,  and  Bishop  successively  of  Ely 
and  Winchester.  He  was  a  man  of  singular  personal 
charm,  and  was  noted  as  a  Bishop  for  maintaining 
peace  and  harmony  in  his  dioceses.  His  chief  literary 
work  was  an  exposition  of  the  Thirty-nine  Articles 
which  long  held  its  position  as  a  standard  exposition 
of  Anglican  doctrine.  He  had  been  a  tutor  of  Downing, 
and  his  tenure  of  his  Fellowship  at  Emmanuel  was 
brief;  but  in  1884  he  was  elected  to  an  honorary 
Fellowship,  which  he  held  till  his  death  in  1891. 

Cory  died  in  April,  1835,  and  was  succeeded  on  the 
30th  of  that  month  by  George  Archdall,  B.D.  (Fellow 
1817),  who  retained  the  office  for  over  thirty- six  years, 
and  later  in  life  assumed  the  additional  surname  of 
Gratwicke.  He  was  also  Canon  of  Norwich.  He  had 
in  early  life  been  one  of  the  English  travellers  detained 
in  France  by  Napoleon  at  the  rupture  of  peace  in  1803 
till  1810,  and  took  pleasure  in  telling  anecdotes  of  the 
Emperor.  He  was  twice  Vice-chancellor — first  in  the 
year  of  his  election,  and  again  in  1841.  The  new  master- 
ship began  with  extensive  repairs  and  improvements  of 
the  Lodge,  and  of  the  stables,  which  then  stood  on  the 
site  now  occupied  by  the  Hostel  and  Tutor"'s  house.  His 
first  two  years  witnessed  the  purchase  of  the  living  of 
East  Bergholt  for  ^8,000,  the  division  of  Loughborough 
into    two    independent    parishes,    and    the    purchase 


176  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

of  a  strip  of  waste  land  from  the  Corporation,  which 
added  to  the  Fellow'*s  Garden  the  site  of  the  present 
greenhouse,  at  the  price  of  c^'SO  (1837).  An  order  of 
March  25  of  the  same  year  seems  to  show  that  under  the 
late  regime  the  old  complaints  as  to  lax  behaviour  in 
chapel  were  still  not  without  some  grounds.  After  the 
beginning  of  the  next  October  term,  undergraduates 
and  Bachelors  are  required  to  be  in  chapel  before  the 
Psalms  begin.  The  same  entry  forbids  Fellows  taking 
MSS.  from  the  College  library  without  a  special  order. 
The  new  broom  began  in  the  usual  way.  At  the  same 
time  more  extensive  alterations  seem  to  have  been  in 
contemplation,  for  an  order  of  October  26,  1837, 
directs  counsel's  opinion  to  be  taken  as  to  whether  '  the 
Queen  in  Council,  or  any  power  short  of  an  Act  of 
Parliament,  can  alter  or  amend  any  of  our  statutes.' 
But  if  reforms  were  contemplated,  nothing  came  of 
them  for  many  years.  Meanwhile  the  finances  were 
flourishing.  A  further  increase  of  stipends  all  round 
is  made  in  April,  1837,  on  the  express  ground  that  *  on 
an  examination  of  the  present  resources  of  the  College, 
there  is  a  considerable  surplus  of  income  over  ex- 
penditure.' Archdall  had  been  Bursar  at  the  time 
of  his  election  to  the  mastership,  and  no  doubt  had 
contributed  to  this  result.  At  any  rate  the  College  had 
now  reached  firm  ground,  from  which  it  has  never 
really  receded.  The  value  of  its  property  seems  to 
have  steadily  risen,  and  though,  like  others,  it  has 
suffered  from  agricultural  depression,  the  gifts  of  early 
benefactors  of  properties  in  or  near  London  have  more 
than  made  up  for  the  loss,  so  that,  as  we  shall  see,  it 
has  been  found  possible  during  the  last  few  years  to 


ARCHDALL-GRATWICKKS  MASTERSHIP    177 

raise  the  number  of  Fellowships  to  sixteen,  and  to  endow 
studentships  for  research. 

The  mastership  of  Dr.  Archdall-Gratwicke  was  not 
an  eventful  one,  except  in  regard  to  the  changes  follow- 
ing the  Commission  of  1861.  Survivors  who  remember 
him  only  knew  him  in  extreme  old  age,  when  he  was 
naturally  averse  from  all  change.  He  was  devoted  to 
the  College  interests,  and  was  a  man  of  singular  good 
sense,  with  the  charm  of  an  old-time  courtesy.  But  he 
was  probably  at  all  times  slow  to  admit  of  change. 
Under  his  administration  the  College  shared  the  general 
prejudice  as  to  the  damage  to  property  likely  to  be 
caused  by  railways,  and  in  1843  resisted  the  scheme  of 
the  Great  Eastern  station  at  Stratford,  just  as  in  1851 
it  resisted  the  scheme  for  an  improved  water-supply 
to  Cambridge.  Still,  some  important  changes  did  take 
place  in  his  time.  They  begin  with  the  alteration  of  the 
statutes  in  1861,  following  the  University  Commission. 
These  changes  include  the  abolition  of  the  rule  affecting 
Fellows  and  scholars,  which  forbade  more  than  one  to 
be  elected  from  the  same  county,  as  well  as  of  the  dis- 
tinction between  senior  and  junior  among  the  Fellows 
themselves.  As  regards  the  fund  for  assisting  under- 
graduates, a  considerable  step  was  taken  towards 
amalgamation.  Ten  small  exhibitions  were  abolished, 
and  their  endowment  placed  to  the  credit  of  a  general 
scholarship  fund.  The  ten  Ash  exhibitions,  with 
preference  to  candidates  from  Derby  and  Ashbyde-la- 
Zouch,  were  abolished,  and  in  their  place  ten  scholar- 
ships of  ^50  and  two  exhibitions  of  ^£'50  were  estab- 
lished. The  scholarships  were  open  to  all,  but  the  two 
exhibitions    were   still   called    Ash,   and   retained   the 

12 


178  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

preference  to  those  two  schools.  A  number  of  other 
small  scholarships  were  also  combined  in  one  fund 
maintaining  five  scholarships  of  £S0.  As  to  the  Fellow- 
ships, the  distinction  between  the  Gillingham  and 
foundation  Fellows  was  abolished.  The  Gillingham 
endowment  was  transferred  to  the  general  fund,  which 
was  to  support  twelve  Fellows,  with  the  understanding 
that  a  thirteenth  was  to  be  established  when  the  College 
property  admitted  of  it.  Some  relaxation  as  to  mar- 
riage was  also  made.  Statute  XX.  allowed  the  election 
of  men  distinguished  in  literature  in  spite  of  being 
married,  but  Fellows  so  elected  were  never  to  exceed  a 
sixth  of  the  whole  body,  nor  were  they  to  have  a  right 
to  College  livings.  Of  other  Fellows,  those  who  had 
served  fifteen  years  as  Assistant-Tutor  (afterwards  inter- 
preted to  include  Tutor)  or  Bursar  were  allowed  to 
retain  their  Fellowships  after  marriage,  with  the  leave  of 
two-thirds  of  the  society  and  the  approval  of  the  Vice- 
Chancellor.  The  amount  of  external  income  forfeiting 
a  Fellowship  was  raised  (as  it  had  been  often  before) 
to  c^SOO  per  annum.  Membership  of  the  Established 
Church  was  still  compulsory  both  for  Master  and  Fellows, 
but  the  regulation  as  to  Orders  was  somewhat  relaxed. 
Though  a  layman  as  a  general  rule  was  to  forfeit  his 
Fellowship  at  the  end  of  ten  years,  he  could  retain  it 
if  he  was  an  Assistant-Tutor  (or  Tutor)  or  Bursar,  and 
had  held  those  offices  for  three  years,  but  only  as  long 
as  he  retained  one  of  them.  Fifteen  years'  service, 
however,  entitled  a  man  to  retain  his  Fellowship  for  life, 
so  long  as  not  more  than  two  Fellowships  were  so  held. 
With  this  renewed  constitution  the  College  pursued  an 
even  way  of  moderate  success,  both  as  to  numbers  and 


DR.  PHEAR'S  MASTERSHIP  179 

University  honours.  The  entrances  from  1831  to  1840 
averaged  17*1 ;  from  1841  to  1850  there  was  a  rise  to 
27-5  ;  from  1851  to  1860  there  was  another  rise  to  30*2; 
from  1861  to  1870,  a  fall  to  26'5.  Other  changes  were 
the  establishment,  in  1861,  of  the  system  of  open 
scholarships  offered  for  competition  before  residence, 
the  first  election  taking  place  in  1862 ;  the  commence- 
ment of  a  building  fund  in  1868  ;  and  the  reopening, 
after  many  years  of  silence,  of  the  College  organ,  and  the 
formation  of  a  voluntary  choir  among  members  of  the 
College. 

Dr.  Archdall-Gratwicke  died  in  the  Lodge  on  Sep- 
tember 16,  1871,  and  on  the  2nd  of  the  following 
October  Samuel  George  Phear,  B.D.,  Senior  Tutor 
and  Bursar,  was  elected  to  succeed  him.  He  next  year 
took  the  degree  of  Doctor  in  Divinity,  and  was  Vice- 
chancellor  in  1874  and  1875.  Dr.  Phear''s  master- 
ship (1871-1895)  witnessed  many  changes,  and  the 
initiation,  at  any  rate,  of  many  measures  which  have 
largely  contributed  to  the  expansion  of  recent  years. 
The  new  statutes  of  1882 — arrived  at  after  long 
and  laborious  discussion  extending  over  nearly  six 
years — have  very  greatly  changed  the  constitution 
and  administration  of  the  College.  The  governing 
body  is  still  the  Master  and  Fellows,  but  no  Fellow 
below  the  degree  of  M.A.  can  vote  until  he  has  been  a 
Fellow  for  one  year,  nor  any  Fellow  who  has  been 
absent  from  one  half  of  the  meetings  in  the  preceding 
year.  Such  Fellows  are  not  members  of  the  governing 
body.  The  old  distinction  between  senior  and  junior 
Fellows  is  revived,  but  neither  senior  nor  junior  Fellow 
can  hold  his  Fellowship  for  more  than  six  years  unless 

12—2 


180  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

he  holds  the  office  of  Dean,  Tutor,  Assistant-Tutor, 
or  Bursar.  Fifteen  years'  service  as  Senior  Tutor,  or 
twenty-five  in  any  other  of  the  above-named  offices, 
entitles  a  man  to  his  Fellowship  for  life.  The  relative 
number  of  seniors  and  juniors  is  never  to  differ  by  more 
than  three,  and  before  an  election  the  governing  body 
is  to  decide  whether  it  is  to  be  to  a  senior  or  junior 
Fellowship.  A  junior  Fellow  may  be  elected  to  a 
senior  Fellowship,  but  has  no  claim  to  be  so  elected. 
Practically  all  the  scholarships  are  now  merged  in  one 
scholarship  fund,*  out  of  which  the  governing  body  can 
elect  to  scholarships  and  exhibitions  of  whatever  value 
and  to  whatever  number  they  think  right  and  the  fund 
can  maintain,  the  one  restriction  being  that  there  must 
be  at  least  twelve  of  not  less  value  than  £60 ;  while  the 
maximum  value  of  those  off'ered  for  open  competition 
before  residence  is  to  be  i^80.  The  purely  educational 
part  of  the  College  work  is  now  in  the  hands  of  an 
'  Educational  Board,'  consisting  of  the  Master,  Senior 
Tutor,  and  two  Fellows  elected  by  the  governing  body. 
This  board  arranges  lectures,  appoints  and  removes 
lecturers  (with  an  appeal  to  the  governing  body),  and 
nominates  Assistant-Tutors.  There  are  now  four  Tutors 
nominated  by  the  Master  and  elected  by  the  governing 
body.  Each  holds  office  for  fifteen  years,  and  can  be 
re-elected.  He  can  only  be  removed  by  a  majority  of 
the  governing  body,  with  an  appeal  to  the  Visitor. 
Neither  marriage  nor  the  being  in  Holy  Orders  now 

*  Except  the  Thorpe  scholarships  and  the  Ashby-de-la-Zouch 
exhibitions.  The  latter  have  still  a  preference  to  Derby,  and  the 
Johnson  to  Oakham  and  Uppingham,  the  Smith  to  Durham,  and 
the  Dixie  to  Market  Bosworth. 


DR.  PHEAR^S  MASTERSHIP  181 

makes  any  difference  in  regard  to  the  tenure  of  Fellow- 
ships. The  stipend  of  the  Fellows  depends  from  year 
to  year  on  the  divisible  balance  of  revenue,  but  is  never 
to  exceed  ^^250.  The  number  of  sizars  and  subsizars 
has  been  increased,  but  the  old  distinction  as  to  dining 
at  the  end  of  Hall  on  dishes  which  had  been  served  at 
the  high  table  has  been  abolished. 

The  alteration  in  the  use  of  the  Dixie  funds,  which 
now  endow  a  Professorship  instead  of  supporting  two 
Fellows,  the  surplus  being  hitherto  invested  in  the  pur- 
chase of  advowsons  of  livings,  has  already  been  noticed. 
The  governing  body  in  1899  exercised  its  discretion 
in  regard  to  the  money  set  apart  for  educational 
purposes  by  founding  a  studentship  for  advanced  study 
and  research  to  the  value  of  ^£^120  per  annum,  to  enable  a 
young  graduate  to  prosecute  some  branch  of  original 
investigation  either  in  England  or  abroad.  In  1902 
the  rise  of  the  College  revenue  consequent  on  the  falling 
in  of  the  valuable  lease  in  Threadneedle  Street,  and  the 
development  of  the  Hyde  farm  as  a  building  property, 
not  only  enabled  the  Society  to  raise  the  number  of 
Fellows  (with  the  approval  of  the  Visitor)  to  sixteen, 
but  also  to  establish  two  more  studentships  for  advanced 
study  and  research  of  the  annual  value  of  =£150,  and  to 
announce  that  they  are  willing  to  consider  applications 
for  aid  in  publishing  the  result  of  such  independent 
work  by  members  of  the  College.  They  have  also 
encouraged  the  system  of  resident  Advanced  Students 
lately  established  in  the  University,  by  offering  an 
exhibition  of  .^50  to  one  of  those  coming  into  residence 
in  the  College. 

This  rise   in   the   value  of  its  property  in  or  near 


182  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

London  has  so  greatly  affected  the  fortunes  of  the 
College  that  it  ought  to  be  described  a  little  more 
fully,  as  a  curious  instance  of  benefactions  of  which 
little  note  was  taken  at  the  time,  but  which  has 
resulted  in  a  noble  endowment  of  learning.  The 
properties  are  three  in  number.  On  November  14, 
1585,  Sir  Walter  conveyed  to  his  new  foundation  a 
house  in  Bishopsgate  Street,  which  was  an  inn  called 
the  Swan,  once  possessed  by  the  Gild  of  St.  Julian,  or 
Innkeepers'  Gild.  With  it  was  another  house,  given, 
apparently  on  Sir  Walter's  suggestion,  by  one  John 
Morley.  The  rent  produced  by  the  property  was  £4}. 
It  went  through  various  developments,  always,  until 
about  1870,  remaining  an  inn  called  the  Four  Swans. 
It  is  now  a  block  of  offices,  etc.,  bringing  in  a  rental 
of  ^1,700.  Secondly,  in  1588,  one  Walter  Dunch,  on 
September  27,  gave  the  College  some  houses  in  Thread- 
needle  Street,  in  accordance  with  the  will  of  Mr.  John 
Barnes,  who  left  his  estate  to  be  settled  on  some  College 
in  Oxford  or  Cambridge,  at  the  discretion  of  his  executor. 
The  College  gave  a  forty  years'*  lease  of  it  at  the  rent 
of  £11  13s.  4d.,  receiving  fines  for  renewal  varying 
from  £105  to  £2^0.  The  buildings  were  burnt  in  the 
Great  Fire,  but  rebuilt  by  the  lessees,  who  were  repaid 
by  getting  an  equitable  rearrangement  of  their  lease 
agreed  upon  before  Judges.  In  1843  it  was  leased  for 
sixty  years  at  a  rent  of  ^300.  It  now  brings  in 
<£»3,000.  Thirdly,  the  Hyde  Farm,  near  Clapham, 
Surrey,  consisting  of  about  61  acres,  came  into  the 
possession  of  the  College  in  1629  by  purchase.  Till 
recently  the  terms  on  which  it  was  leased  varied  little. 
It  was   let   on   a   twenty-one   years'  lease  for   a  rent 


DR.  PHEAR'S  MASTERSHIP  183 

of  £9,0,  with  a  fine  for  renewal  which  varied  from 
£11  to  dP200.  It  has  now  been  largely  built  over,  and 
produces  a  rent  of  ^2,700. 

These  developments  have  carried  us  to  a  time  be- 
yond Dr.  Phear's  mastership.  Other  measures  that  fall 
within  it  are  the  beginning  of  the  hostel  system,  and 
the  erection  of  the  new  buildings  designed  for  that 
purpose  at  the  east  end  of  the  close,  and  the  adjoining 
Tutor's  house.  In  1884  an  entrance  examination  was 
established ;  in  1885  a  slight  increase  was  made  in  the 
tuition  fee,  in  order  that  the  Lecturers  might  do  for 
their  men  what  had  formerly  been  done  at  much 
greater  cost  by  private  Tutors ;  in  1886  an  exhibition 
and  other  encouragements  were  devised  for  candidates 
for  the  India  Civil  Service ;  in  1887  a  Library  Com- 
mittee was  formed  which  has  done  much  to  keep  the 
College  Library  supplied  with  all  books  that  might  be 
useful  to  Fellows  or  scholars  engaged  in  any  serious 
study.  In  1884  a  junior  students'  library  was  begun 
in  a  set  of  rooms  in  the  Old  Court ,  containing  the  most 
necessary  books  of  reference  and  all  the  ordinary  books 
used  in  the  several  branches  of  University  study,  to  be  at 
the  service  of  all  members  of  the  College  under  the  usual 
conditions  of  a  lending  library.  About  the  same  time 
another  set  of  chambers  in  the  Old  Court  was  converted 
into  a  reading  and  debating  room.  Minor  improve- 
ments were  the  lease  of  a  cricket  and  football  field, 
the  erection  of  a  boathouse,  the  building  of  a  fives- 
court,  the  laying  out  of  the  close  for  tennis,  the  re- 
decoration  of  the  hall  and  chapel,  the  introduction 
of  electric  light :  all  of  which  have  added  to  the  beauty, 
convenience,    and    general    amenity    of    the    College. 


184  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

Dr.  Phear'^s  mastership  was  also  distinguished  by  the 
tercentenary  celebration  already  described,  over  which 
he  presided  with  great  dignity  and  success  (1884). 
It  also  witnessed  the  gradual  formation  of  a  staff  of 
teachers  which  could  bear  comparison  with  any  other 
College  in  the  University.  So  that  the  words  used  by 
himself  in  his  speech  at  the  tercentenary  dinner  may  be 
with  some  truth  repeated : 

'  It  was  Thomas  Fuller's  wish  for  the  Emmanuel  in  his 
day :  "  May  she  never  want  milk  for  her  babes,  or  babes 
for  her  milk."  I  may  say  confidently,  but  without  boast- 
ing, that  the  milk  was  never  more  plenteous  than  now.* 

Dr.  Phear's  mastership,  like  those  of  Drs.  Chaderton 
and  Sancroft,  came  to  an  end  in  October,  1895,  by 
resignation.  Under  his  successor,  William  Chawner — 
the  first  lay  Master — these  various  improvements,  many 
of  which  had  been  initiated  and  brought  to  successful 
working  by  his  zeal  and  energy  as  Senior  Tutor,  have 
borne  great  and  conspicuous  fruit.  There  has  been,  in 
the  first  place,  a  phenomenal  rise  in  numbers.  It  began 
in  the  decade  1881-1890,  when  the  average  of  entrances 
was  42-8 ;  it  went  on  in  the  next  decade  (1891-1900)  to 
62 '5  ;  and  that  average  has  been  still  further  increased 
during  the  present  century,  the  entrances  in  1903 
amounting  to  70,  a  larger  number  than  had  been  reached 
since  the  restoration  of  1660.  The  increase  in  the 
College  revenue,  and  the  use  to  which  that  increase  has 
been  put,  have  already  been  described.  It  has  been 
rewarded — in  common  with  the  zeal  and  reputation  of 
the  Tutors — not  only  by  swollen  numbers,  but  by  the 
ability  attracted  to  the  College,  whose  members  have  in 


WILLIAM  CHAWNER'S  MASTERSHIP      185 

the  last  few  years  secured  an  unprecedentedly  large  share 
in  the  list  of  University  honours. 

With  this  has  come  also  a  considerable  improve- 
ment in  the  site  of  the  College  itself,  facilitating 
the  extension  of  the  buildings  whenever  it  becomes 
wise  or  necessary  to  entertain  any  such  plan.  By 
the  purchase  of  the  house  at  the  south-western  comer 
of  the  southern  garden,  an  obstacle  to  the  use  of 
that  side  of  the  College  grounds  has  been  removed. 
But  more  important  still,  the  College  is  on  the 
point  of  getting  possession  of  Emmanuel  Street,  in 
return  for  surrendering  ground  for  a  new  street  about 
100  yards  farther  down  St.  Andrew's  Street,  which — as 
the  houses  on  the  north  side  are  already  in  its  possession 
— would  enable  it  at  some  future  time  to  erect  almost  as 
large  a  court  as  any  in  Cambridge.  When  the  College 
was  founded  it  was  almost  outside  the  town,  with  little 
or  nothing  between  it  and  the  open  country  ;  it  was  on 
the  fringe  of  the  University,  remote  from  its  heart  and 
centre.  Not  only  has  the  town  grown  round  it,  but  the 
University  has  crept  up  to  it.  The  new  Museums  and 
the  laboratories  on  the  site  of  the  old  botanic  garden, 
and  on  the  Downing  ground  opposite,  have  caused  the 
College  to  be  closer  than  most  others  to  the  crowded 
lecture-rooms  of  the  new  learning.  Its  members  fondly 
believe  that  this  is  ominous  of  a  great  future  beyond 
the  dream  of  Sir  Walter,  when  he  planted  his  acorn  in 
faith,  without  venturing  to  foretell  what  would  come  of 
the  tree  which  was  to  grow  from  it  and  to  spread  its 
branches  far  and  wide.  The  list  of  benefactors  given  in 
the  Appendix  will  serve  as  an  indication  of  how  the 
stream,  starting  from  the  foundation  of  his  bounty,  has 


186  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

grown  and  widened.  Nor  is  it  only  or  chiefly  the  hands 
of  the  great,  famous,  or  wealthy  that  have  done  this.  It  is 
worth  noticing  how  isolated  acts  of  obscure  donors  have 
contributed  to  the  great  result.  Neither  of  Dunch  nor 
Barnes,  from  whom  came  the  property  in  Threadneedle 
Street,  can  any  information  be  obtained.  Francis  Ash 
is  only  known  as  a  'citizen  of  London"*;  of  the  long 
list  of  benefactors  recorded  by  Cooper  the  majority  are 
wholly  obscure — country  clergy,  schoolmasters,  mer- 
chants or  small  landowners.  The  seed  silently  sown  by 
almost  unknown  hands  has  borne  a  generous  harvest. 


CHAPTER   X 

THE    LIBRARY 

The  Founder,  among  his  other  provisions  for  the 
College,  designed  to  present  to  it  certain  books  in  the 
four  faculties  of  Theology,  Logic,  Rhetoric  and  History. 
A  volume  of  many  pages  of  vellum  still  exists,  on  the 
first  of  which  it  is  stated  that  he  '  librariae  prima  posuit 
elementa.'  Seven  books  are  mentioned,  six  of  which  are 
still  in  the  library,  of  which  the  first  three  contain  his 
autograph.  The  six  are:  (1)  A  large  French  Bible, 
folio,  on  the  title-page  of  which  he  wrote,  'Ex  dono 
ministrorum  totius  Ecclesiae  Genvenensis  octavo  Kalendas 
lunii  1588  ^  (2)  a  Latin  Vulgate,  folio,  1553;  (3)  a 
volume  of  Beza's  Theological  Tracts  (beautifully  bound), 
1573 ;  (4)  Car.  Molinaeus  (Charles  de  Moulin)  de  con- 
tractibus^  1553;  (5)  Rud.  Agricola's  Logica,  15S7; 
(6)  Isocrates'  Orationes  Latine,  ed.  Wolf,  1547.  The 
blank  pages  of  this  volume  were  apparently  meant  for 
the  catalogue  of  the  future  library,  but  were  never 
used. 

The  room  set  apart  for  a  library  was  at  the 
south-west  corner  of  the  Founder's  Range,  and  it 
contained  the  picture  of  Sir  Walter  painted  for  the 

187 


188  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

College,  and  now  in  the  gallery,  with  a  '  a  curtayne  of 
blew  saye  and  an  iron  rod,"*  *  a  terrestial  globe  with  a 
waynscot  frame,'' '  two  tables  of  astronomye,"* '  9  fair  desks 
of  oake  every  one  having  three  degrees,'  and  '  six  books 
of  monyments  of  martyrs.' 

The  library  was  transferred  to  the  present  building, 
which  had  been  the  chapel,  after  the  completion  of  the 
new  chapel  in  1679,  and  the  shorter  cases  under  the 
windows  were  added  between  1693  and  1706,  to 
accommodate  Sancroft's  books.  A  letter  from  Dilling- 
ham to  Bancroft,  dated  July  15,  1678,  speaks  of  the 
contemplated  change : 

'I  may  give  your  lordship  an  account  of  Emmanuel 
Library.  I  have  observed  the  windows  etc.  in  the  old 
Chapel,  and  do  not  doubt  but  it  may  make  a  very  con- 
venient Library.  The  walls  are  good  and  dry,  the  damp- 
ness that  appears  being  only  from  the  floore,  which  may  be 
remedyed  by  raising  the  floore  to  the  level  of  the  footpage 
of  the  bachelors'  seates ;  and  the  wideness  being  27  feet, 
nine  on  each  side  may  be  set  off  for  the  length  of  the 
classis,  and  the  middle  walk  will  be  9  ft.  broad.  The 
windows  being  but  4  on  a  side  will  admit  but  3  classes 
between  them,  and  at  each  end  a  half  classis ;  but  the  dis- 
tance between  the  windows  and  wideness  of  the  window  is 
such  that  there  may  be  very  well  an  interclassis  against 
the  midst  of  every  window  as  high  as  the  soyle  of  it,  about 
6  foot  high,  to  come  as  far  out  as  the  higher  classes,  which 
may  be  8  foot  high,  so  there  will  be  in  effect  8  classes  on 
each  side  of  9  foot  length,  which  will  contain  thrice  so 
many  books  as  yet  they  have.' 

The  books  in  the  old  library  increased  with  fair 
rapidity.     In  a  volume  of  inventories  lists  are  copied 


From  a  photo^yaph  by\ 


J.  J'aimer  CiUr/.c,  CaiidriJ^e 


THE   LIBRARY 


THE  LIBRARY  189 

out  in  1603,  1606,  1609,  1610,  and  1620.  In  1610  it 
is  stated  that  there  were  found  to  be  503  volumes  and 
thirty  missing.  In  1619  Dr.  Branthwait  left  £^0  to 
the  library,  gifts  of  books  are  recorded  from  almost  the 
earliest  times  from  Fellows  and  others,  and  a  catalogue 
which  belonged  to  Archbishop  Sancroft — with  his  auto- 
graph at  the  top  of  the  first  page — contains  the  titles 
of  about  5,000  books.  The  library  has  grown  steadily, 
but  it  has  had  certain  large  increases.  The  first  was  by 
books  worth  d(?120  given  by  John  Richardson,  B.D. 
(Fellow,  1592),  followed  by  the  folio  and  quarto  books 
left  by  Dr.  Richardson,  Master  of  Trinity,  in  1625 ; 
the  next,  a  share  of  the  books  left  by  Richard  Holds- 
worth  (Master  from  1637  to  1644),  whose  legacy  in  1649 
named  as  a  condition  that  the  College  should  provide  a 
fitting  room  for  the  books.  They  numbered  over  10,000 
volumes,  and  the  expectation  of  acquiring  them  first 
gave  Sancroft  the  idea  of  providing  a  new  library. 
Ultimately,  however,  the  bulk  of  them  went  to  the 
University,  which  paid  the  College  d^220  in  lieu  of  its 
claims.  Yet  some  seem  to  have  found  their  way  to  the 
College  library,  and  we  may  assume  that  part  of  the 
money  received  was  spent  in  books. 

Holdsworth's  intentions  as  to  his  books  will  best  be 
seen  by  the  following  letter  addressed  to  'my  much 
esteemed  friend,  Mr.  Wellar  of  Emmanuel  College,  or 
in  his  absence  to  Mr.  Sarson ' : 

'Worthy  S^ 

'  Holding  it  not  soe  convenient,  to  wryte  to  the 
whole  society  at  this  p^sent,  I  thought  it  fittest,  by  y*^  selfe 
to  imparte  unto  them  both  my  respectfull  acknowlegments 
of    their   great   love,   and    my   continued    resolution    of 


190  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

increasing  their  Library,  according  to  my  former  expres- 
sions unto  M''  Whichcote.  The  number  of  folioes,  w*^^  I 
intend,  shall  be  at  least  300,  and  most  of  them  books  of 
good  bulke.  For  the  4°^^  and  8°^^  I  can  not  soe  punctu- 
ally at  this  distance  determine  of  the  number,  till  I  come 
downe  to  y^  College,  w^^  to  doe,  I  am  in  hope  to  obteine 
leave,  but  if  I  procure  it  not,  the  thing  shall  goe  forward, 
as  well  to  their  content,  though  it  may  be  it  will  not  be 
soe  well  to  myne.  There  will  need  noe  further  directions, 
for  fitting  of  that  parte  of  the  library,  save  only  to  intreat 
you,  to  furnishe  it  fully  with  shelves,  there  where  you 
make  your  partition,  both  because  it  may  invite  me  the 
better  to  a  larger  proportion,  and  because,  I  am  in  hope, 
to  procure  M"^  Rumney's  library  for  you,  which  was  the 
reason  of  my  deferring  to  wryte  all  this  while,  having  till 
this  week  recieved  noe  certain  answer  from  the  adminis- 
trator. The  gentlema  himself  died  intestate,  soe  his 
brother  administers,  but  with  some  oppositio  of  S""  Francis 
Carye  who  married  his  sister  :  This  oppositio  made  him 
to  keep  strict  watch  in  his  house,  and  not  to  give 
admittance  to  any  to  speak  with  him ;  Therefor  I 
acquainted  him  first  by  letter,  then  by  a  friend,  and  on 
monday  last  by  my  selfe,  that  M^  Rumnye  had  severall 
tymes  signified  both  to  my  selfe  and  to  others,  that  he 
would  bestowe  his  books  upo  Emmanuell  College,  and 
therefore  I  intreated  him  that  he  would  make  good  his 
brother's  resolutio,  and  give  you  cause  to  enroll  them 
both  for  benefactors  :  After  much  parlye  he  gave  me  a 
very  faire  answer,  that  howsoever  he  could  prove,  that  his 
brother  upo  y^  alterations  in  Emmanuell  College,  had 
retracted  his  former  resolutio,  yet  when  things  were 
settled,  he  would  readily  doe  what  was  agreable  to  reason, 
if  it  were  in  his  powre  to  dispose  of  y^'"  :  Here  now  is  the 
business  that  foreslowed  my  answer ;  I  shall  still  keep  an 


THE  LIBRARY  191 

eye  upon  it,  for  y«  best  advantage  of  the  College,  and  be 
alwayes  ready  to  watch  any  opportunity  of  doing  it  good, 
as  cordially  as  if  I  were  in  it :  In  the  interim,  I  pray  you 
returne  to  the  fellows,  my  redoobled  thanks,  both  for 
their  friendly  letter  and  their  kinde  acceptance  of  this 
small  pledge  of  my  love  to  y^  College.  Soe  I  commend 
you  to  God  s  Grace,  and  remaine 

'  Y"*  affectionate  friend 

*  Rl  :  HOLDSWORTH. 

'March  27,  1646.' 

Writing  to  Sancroft  on  January  19,  \QQ^-Q5,  W.  Dil- 
lingham remarks  at  the  end  of  his  letter :  '  I  am  glad 
to  hear  that  Dr.  Holdsworth's  library  is  so  peaceably 
disposed  of.'  This  settlement  seems  not  only  to  have 
involved  the  payment  from  the  University  mentioned 
above,  but  also  a  transference  to  the  Emmanuel 
Library  of  duplicates,  which  was  in  accordance  with  a 
clause  in  his  will.  After  directing  that  in  certain 
circumstances  the  books  are  to  go  to  the  Lambeth 
Library,  or  to  that  of  the  '  College  in  Dublin,'  instead 
of  Cambridge,  he  adds  : 

'  If  my  books  come  to  the  possession  of  Cambridge  I 
appoint  that  a  selection  be  made  of  all  such  books  as  are 
double  or  treble  in  my  Library,  of  the  same  edition,  and 
the  books  so  selected  I  give  to  Emmanuel  College,  so 
withall  such  as  they  have  not  already  there,  and  the 
remainder  to  Katherine  Hall  in  Cambridge  :  And  it  will 
not  be  an  unconsiderable  number.  The  like  order  I 
would  have  observed  if  it  shall  fall  out  that  they  come  to 
be  transmitted  to  the  College  of  Dublin  in  Ireland.  But 
if  they  come  to  the  possession  of  Emmanuel  College  in 
Cambridge,  I  do  then  appoint  that  the  double  and  treble 


192  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

books  so  selected  be  bestowed  upon  Katherine  Hall,  and 
the  remainder  of  the  selection  upon  Christ's  College  in 
Cambridge.' 

The  books  of  James  Rumney  mentioned  in  Holds- 
worth's  letter  seem  to  have  come  to  the  College  to  the 
value  of  ^60.  In  1675  Breton,  and  in  1684  Holbech, 
left  their  books  to  the  library.  In  1685  Edmund 
Castell  left  over  100  valuable  Hebrew  books.  Other 
benefactors  have  been  Rachel,  daughter  of  Francis, 
Earl  of  Westmorland  (and  therefore  great-grand- 
daughter of  the  founder),  wife  of  Henry  Bouchier, 
Earl  of  Bath,  who  died  in  1654.  She  gave  books  to 
the  value  of  .^'^O.  John  Kent,  B.D.  (Fellow  1660, 
Vicar  of  North  Luffenham  1676),  gave  books  to  the 
value  of  £60;  John  Croone,  M.D.,  F.R.S.  (Fellow 
1651),  left  his  mathematical  books  in  1706 ;  John 
Atwood  (Fellow  1652)  left  £50  to  the  library ;  John 
Brown,  B.D.  (Fellow  1687,  Rector  of  Wallington  1736), 
left  £50  and  a  part  of  his  books  ;  John  Gresley,  B.D. 
(Fellow  1760,  Rector  of  Aller  1778)  gave  ^50; 
Henry  Nichols  (Fellow  1675)  gave  e£^180.  Finally, 
part  of  the  proceeds  of  the  estate  left  by  Francis  Ash 
in  1659  was  appropriated  to  the  library. 

The  largest  increase,  however,  was  after  the  library 
had  been  removed  to  its  present  quarters,  and  came  from 
Archbishop  Sancroft  before  his  death.  These  books  had 
been  warehoused  in  Lambeth  after  his  deprivation  in 
1691,  and  shortly  before  his  death  were  delivered  by  his 
chaplain,  Needham  (who  had  a  brother  a  Fellow),  to  the 
College.  As  he  made  no  will,  the  remaining  part  of 
his  books  and  MSS.,  which  were  at  Fressingfield,  never 
came  to  the  library.     This  large  present  of  over  6,000 


THE  LIBRARY  193 

volumes,  which  included  valuable  MSS.,  such  as  the  MS. 
of  Herodotus,  necessitated  some  addition  to  the  shelves, 
which  seem  shortly  afterwards  to  have  assumed  their 
present  arrangement.  The  locked-up  case  for  MSS. 
and  the  rarer  printed  books  was  added  very  early ;  but 
the  other  open  case  in  the  centre  is  of  recent  construc- 
tion. The  next  and  last  large  addition  was  that  of 
Hubbard's  library,  at  his  death  in  1777.  Most  of  the 
existing  Fellows  had  the  choice  of  some  of  these  books 
and  a  certain  portion  was  left  to  a  Mr.  Canning.  But 
on  Canning's  death,  in  1789,  he  left  them  back  to  the 
College,  along  with  the  portrait  of  Hubbard  now  in 
the  hall.  Lastly,  a  considerable  number  of  books  be- 
longing to  the  late  Professor  Hort  were  at  his  death, 
in  1892,  presented  to  the  library  by  his  widow.  Among 
donors  of  MSS.  ought  to  be  mentioned  Bishop  Bedell, 
whose  MS.  Hebrew  Bible,  purchased  at  Venice,  came 
to  the  College  after  his  death  in  1641.  The  following 
letter  also  will  show  how  the  four  volumes  of  the  works 
of  St.  Chrysostom  in  MS.  came  to  us  : 

'The  manuscript  formerly  belonged  to  the  learned 
Adam  Askew,  M.D.,  and  after  his  death  came  into  the 
possession  of  his  eldest  son,  Adam  Askew,  by  whom  it  was 
given  to  me  in  the  year  1790,  in  testimony  of  his  regard 
for  me,  as  his  schoolmaster  at  Stanmore,  Middlesex,  and  as 
the  intimate  friend  of  his  deceased  father.  With  sincere 
and  great  pleasure  I  present  it  to  the  Library  of  Emmanuel 
College,  as  a  mark  of  my  respect  for  the  Master  and  Fellows 
of  the  society  in  which  I  had  the  honour  to  be  educated ; 
and  the  manuscript,  I  suppose,  will  be  the  more  acceptable 
to  them  as  having  once  been  the  property  of  Dr.  Askew 
and  his  son,  who  were  members  of  the  same  College,  and 

13 


194  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

who,  like  myself,  took  a  lively  interest  in  its  prosperity 
and  its  fame. 

'Samuel  Parr. 
•  Hatton  Parsonage, 
'August  19,  1814.' 

It  has  been  a  good  practice  also,  on  the  part  of 
members  of  the  College  who  were  authors,  to  send 
copies  of  their  works  to  the  library.  Thus,  there  are 
several  of  Sir  William  Temple's  minor  works,  with  his 
autograph  dedication  to  his  old  College.  The  purchase 
of  books  has  been  fitful,  but  has  never  been  wholly 
suspended.  From  very  early  times  part  of  the  money 
paid  by  the  commencing  Bachelors  was  devoted  to 
this  purpose,  and  an  order  of  October  29,  1651, 
directs  that  '  the  Steward  shall  buy  books  and  exhibit 
them  in  the  Parlour,  and  thence  send  them  into  the 
Library.' 

The  development  of  the  library  as  a  useful  assistance 
to  students,  and  the  means  taken  for  its  preservation, 
can  be  traced  through  a  series  of  College  orders  and 
regulations.  The  notice,  already  quoted,  in  1610  of 
there  being  thirty  volumes  '  missing '  is  one  that  is  often 
repeated,  and  an  indication  of  the  need  for  the  various 
measures  taken.  It  seems  that  at  first  the  library 
was  open  to  Fellows  and  scholars,  who  not  only  had 
free  access  to  it,  but  took  out  books  as  they  pleased. 
The  first  order  that  I  have  discovered  relating  to  it 
is  dated  April  8,  1600,  wherein  Fellows  and  scholars 
are  forbidden  to  take  books  into  their  chambers  with- 
out the  leave  of  the  Master  and  major  part  of  the 
Fellows,  and  without  giving  a  '  note  of  remembrance.' 
There  was   already,  it  seems,  a  'library-keeper,'  who 


THE  LIBRARY  195 

was  paid  sixteen  shillings  every  half-year,  and  it  was 
to  him  that  the  note  of  remembrance  was  to  be  given. 
The  order  is  re-enforced  on  October  4,  1609,  with  a 
fine  of  forty  shillings  (a  very  heavy  sum  in  days  when 
a  Fellow's  stipend  was  less  than  ^10  a  year)  on  a 
Fellow  or  scholar  who  '  shall  take  or  receive  any  book 
or  books  out  of  the  common  Library  on  any  pretence 
whatever,**  or  who,  having  a  book  out  at  that  date,  does 
not  return  it  within  four  days.  This  strict  rule,  how- 
ever, was  not  maintained.  On  March  4,  1653-54,  an 
order  directs  the  library-keeper — without  whose  know- 
ledge no  Fellow  is  to  take  out  a  book — to  write  down  the 
name  of  the  book  taken  out  by  a  Fellow  sending  for  it. 
He  is  to  see  that  the  book  is  always  returned  so  as  to 
be  in  the  library  from  six  o'clock  p.m.  on  Saturday  till 
the  Monday  morning  next  ensuing.  A  fine  of  one 
shilling  is  to  be  levied  for  each  volume  for  each  Saturday 
on  which  it  is  not  returned.  It  seems,  therefore,  that 
by  this  time  the  scholars  had  lost  their  privilege  of 
using  the  library.  They  could  only  get  books  through 
a  Fellow.  Careful  inventories  of  the  books  continue  to 
be  given,  and  that  which  bears  the  signature  of  Sancroft 
and  contains  the  titles  of  about  5,000  volumes  is 
particularly  well  written  and  well  preserved.  But  there 
do  not  seem  to  have  been  any  further  regulations  made 
for  its  care  for  many  years  after  this,  nor  does  there 
appear  to  have  been  any  regular  system  as  to  the 
purchase  of  books. 

Early  in  the  eighteenth  century  attention  seems  to  have 
been  turned  once  more  to  the  library,  beginning,  how- 
ever, with  a  very  questionable  step.  On  March  25, 
1712,  there  is  an  order  that 

13—2 


196  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

'  Mr.  JeiFery  be  appointed  and  empowered  to  sell  such 
books  belonging  to  the  Library  as  the  Society  thinks  fit 
to  part  with  and  are  specified  in  a  catalogue  made  for 
that  purpose.  That  Mr.  JefFery  from  time  to  time  put  in 
the  College  treasury  the  money  arising  from  the  sale  of 
these  books  together  with  a  catalogue  of  the  books  sold. 
That  the  money  so  raised  shall  be  kept  in  the  said  treasury 
to  be  laid  out  as  the  major  part  of  the  Society  shall  think 
fit  for  the  use  of  the  Library.' 

Jeffery  was  senior  Fellow  and  Librarian  at  this  time. 
He  went  off  to  Luffenham  in  1714,  but,  apparently,  he 
carried  out  the  order  to  some  effect,  for  in  June,  1716,  we 
hear  of  c£*200  '  put  out  for  the  use  of  the  library,*'  the 
interest  of  which  is  to  be  received  by  the  Steward  and 
laid  out  in  books,  an  account  of  which  is  to  be  given 
yearly ;  but  no  catalogue  of  those  sold  is  forthcoming. 
With  the  mastership  of  Savage  (1719-1736)  there  seems 
to  have  been  a  great  access  of  attention  paid  to  this 
department.  On  November  4,  1719,  for  the  first  time 
a  regular  code  of  rules  is  drawn  up  as  to  the  use  of  the 
library,  and  ordered  to  be  written  out  on  parchment 
and  hung  up  in  the  library.  These  rules  forbid  the 
possession  of  a  key  to  any  but  Master,  Fellows  and 
Librarian.  No  one  else  is  to  be  admitted  without  the 
presence  of  one  of  the  society  or  library-keeper.  No 
book  of  '  common  use,  that  is,  such  as  students  according 
to  their  several  ranks  and  degree  have  frequent  occasion 
to  consult,  and  therefore  ought  to  purchase  for  them- 
selves,' is  to  be  lent  to  a  scholar  or  other  student. 
Books  borrowed  are  to  be  entered  by  the  library-keeper, 
Master,  or  Fellow,  and  the  date  of  return  by  the  library- 
keeper  ;  and  a  fine  of  five  shillings  is  to  be  inflicted 


THE  LIBRARY  197 

for  a  breach  of  any  of  these  rules.  The  same  order 
contains  a  resolution  that  the  library-keeper  is  to  make 
both  an  alphabetical  and  class  catalogue,  to  set  up 
new  books,  and  supply  pens,  two  standishes  or  pots, 
and  keep  the  library  in  good  order,  under  a  fine  of  one 
shilling  for  every  deficiency. 

Still,  there  seems  to  have  been  some  backwardness  in 
keeping  up  the  supply  of  new  books.  For  an  order  of 
April  10,  1721,  directs  that  'the  money  yearly  due  to 
the  Library  from  the  Commencing  Bachelors  and  Masters 
of  Arts,  which  used  to  be  laid  out  by  the  Steward,  shall 
for  the  future  be  disposed  of  in  buying  such  books  as 
shall  be  agreed  upon  by  the  major  part  of  the  Society 
yearly.'  On  October  17,  1722,  a  'strict  and  thorough 
examination  into  the  state  of  the  Library '  is  ordered, 
and  all  books  are  called  in.  Two  years  later,  October  28, 
1724,  the  salary  of  the  library-keeper  is  raised  to  c£^10, 
because  *  the  former  salary  appointed  for  the  Library- 
keeper  has  upon  mature  deliberation  been  judged  not 
to  be  sufficient  encouragement  for  the  care  necessarily 
required  to  keep  the  said  Library  in  order.'  Whether 
this  measure  proved  effective  does  not  appear.  That 
the  library  was  used,  however,  is  shown  by  an  order  of 
October  26,  1731,  forbidding  any  lexicon  or  dictionary 
being  taken  out,  or  any  book  kept  more  than  a  month, 
under  a  penalty  of  five  shillings,  and  the  Librarian  is 
forbidden  '  to  give  out  books  to  any  lads  except  they 
have  a  note  each  time  from  their  Tutors.'  Yet  an 
inquisition  in  1759  discovered  that  sixty  books  were 
missing,  and  in  1789  as  many  as  160. 

Meanwhile  the  income  of  the  library  had  been  accu- 
mulating instead  of  being  expended  in  books,  so  that  in 


198  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

1740  the  College  borrows  i?150  of  this  fund,  to  pay  a 
call  from  the  Commissioners  of  the  Huntingdon  Turn- 
pike. This  was  partly  repaid  in  1745,  but  other  similar 
investments  were  made  in  1746  and  1751,  and  the 
income  of  the  library  seems  to  have  also  accumulated 
in  the  hands  of  Farmer  as  Master.  So  that  at  the  end 
of  the  century  the  library  had  c£*200  turnpike  bonds, 
and  a  claim  for  £^M  14s.  5d.  upon  Farmer^s  executors, 
of  which  c£'160  was  invested  in  more  turnpike  bonds. 
The  income  of  the  library  was  now  d^'^O,  paid  partly  by 
the  Steward  and  partly  by  the  Bursar,  plus  the  interest 
of  this  invested  capital  of  £S60,  which  amounted  to 
c£'18.  In  subsequent  years  the  payment  from  the 
Steward  slightly  increased,  and  c^'lO  was  contributed  by 
the  Ash  Estate. 

From  about  1800  the  library-keeper  began  to  be  called 
the  Librarian ;  a  regular  account  was  kept,  audited  each 
year  by  two  Fellows.  The  office  of  Librarian  seems  hence- 
forth to  have  been  passed  down  the  society,  and  to  have 
been  generally  held  by  one  of  the  Fellows  for  a  varying 
number  of  years.  The  amount  of  money  actually  spent 
in  books  varies  from  nothing  in  some  years  to  about  ^£^60 
in  others.  In  1829,  the  repairs  of  the  library  absorbed 
c£*80,  and  no  books  were  bought.  A  somewhat  greater 
activity  set  in  with  the  librarianship  of  R.  Cory  (1835), 
who  has  left  some  papers  showing  that  he  interested  him- 
self in  the  history  and  care  of  the  library,  and  when  he 
handed  over  his  office  to  R.  J.  Bunch,  in  1839,  had  only 
£2S  19s.  4d.  to  transfer.  Neither  Bunch  nor  his  suc- 
cessor, R.  Birkett  (1848),  seems  to  have  bought  any 
books  worth  mentioning,  except  that  Birkett  acquired 
a  Dugdale's  Monastica?i.     J.  Woolley  (1850)  and  W. 


THE  LIBRARY  199 

Castlehow  (1856)  were  only  a  little  more  active  in  buying. 
P.  G.  Dennis  (1862)  held  office  little  more  than  a  year, 
in  which  he  bought  little.  He  was  succeeded  by 
S.  G.  Phear  (1864-1866)  and  Octavius  Glover  (1866- 
1870),  under  whose  management  the  accumulation  of 
balances  reached  <£^779  6s.  lOd.  With  the  greater  part 
of  this,  ^^^750  of  Government  3J  per  cent,  stock  was 
purchased  in  1871,  and  two  years  later  the  interest  of 
this  and  of  the  other  payments  to  the  library  were 
commuted  for  £70  a  year  paid  by  the  Bursar;  to  which 
has  been  added  since  1889  a  proportion  of  the  fees 
paid  by  ingredientes,  the  amount  of  which  varies,  of 
course,  with  the  number  of  men  entering. 

Dr.  Pearson  held  the  office  of  Librarian  from  1870 
to  1884.  In  these  fourteen  years  he  did  much  work 
for  the  library,  especially  in  making  a  new  catalogue, 
founded  on  the  four  -  volume  Bodleian  catalogue  of 
1738,  in  place  of  the  old  one,  which  was  founded  on  the 
three-volume  Bodleian  of  1674.  The  new  catalogue 
had  been  purchased  and  interleaved  by  his  predecessor, 
Glover,  but  the  whole  labour  of  recataloguing  fell  on 
Dr.  Pearson,  in  whose  handwriting  nearly  all  the  entries 
are  made.  He  also  composed  and  printed  a  separate 
catalogue  of  books  in  the  library  printed  before  1700. 
He  did  not  purchase  new  books  very  largely,  but  some 
notable  additions  were  made  in  his  time,  such  as  the 
Biographie  Universelle  and  both  series  of  Migne's 
Patrologia,  the  price  of  the  latter,  £115,  being  partly 
provided  by  the  stipend  of  a  vacant  divinity  lecturer- 
ship.  He  printed  an  index  to  Migne,  and  did  a  great 
deal  in  repairing  the  binding  of  a  large  number  of 
the  books,  and  generally  in  making  the  library  more 


200  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

useful  and  available.  Lastly,  in  October,  1874,  it  was 
agreed  by  the  Master  and  Fellows  to  allow  the  scholars 
to  take  books  out  in  their  own  name,  who  thus  recovered 
a  privilege  which  they  had  lost  for  more  than  200  years. 
By  an  order  of  December  5,  1883,  the  Librarian  is  to 
be  elected  every  year.  Since  1884  the  office  has  been 
held  by  the  present  writer.  The  number  of  books  pur- 
chased has  been  steadily  maintained,  at  the  highest 
point  that  the  income  of  the  library  allows,  by  the 
Library  Committee  first  appointed  in  1887,  which 
meets  once  a  term,  and  selects  books  to  be  purchased 
from  those  suggested  by  its  own  members  or  by 
other  members  of  the  College.  It  may  be  particularly 
mentioned  that  the  library  has  acquired  a  very  com- 
plete collection  of  Greek  and  Latin  inscriptions.  The 
iron  gallery  erected  in  Dr.  Pearson's  time  against  the 
south  wall  has  been  extended  along  the  east  and  west 
walls,  and  is  now  almost  full.  The  catalogue  has  been 
completely  revised,  and  the  details  of  many  volumes  of 
'  tracts  "* — in  which  the  library  is  rich — have  been  for 
the  first  time  entered.  The  MSS.  have  been  recently 
catalogued  and  described  by  Dr.  M.  R.  James,  of  King's 
College,  and  his  work  will  shortly  be  available.  In 
spite  of  the  loss  of  books  recorded  in  the  seventeenth 
and  eighteenth  centuries,  and  in  the  fire  of  1811,*  the 
library  may  be  said  to  contain  substantially  unimpaired 
the  collection  begun  by  the  founder,  and  frequently,  if 
somewhat  fitfully,  continued  ever  since.    There  are  now 

*  This  must  refer  to  books  taken  out  and  in  various  rooms,  as 
the  library  itself  was  not  injured.  On  November  2,  1812,  the  sum 
of  /■13  2s.  6d.  was  received  from  an  insurance  company  •  for  books 
lost  by  fire,  October  15,  181 1.' 


THE  LIBRARY  201 

over  23,000  volumes  in  the  building,  as  well  as  2,000  in 
the  Junior  Students'  library.  Besides  the  original  books 
already  mentioned  as  having  been  given  by  the  founder, 
the  original  'Letters  of  the  Martyrs'  (now  carefully 
bound)  are  intact,  and  they  are  recorded,  as  indicated 
above,  among  the  very  earliest  possessions  of  the  library. 
Among  autographs  of  interest,  besides  several  of  the 
Founder  and  Sancroft,  there  is  one  of  Erasmus  in  a 
copy  of  his  treatise  on  the  Divorce  sent  to  the  Queen, 
some  of  Cranmer,  and  a  Vulgate  with  an  inscription  in 
the  handwriting  of  Edward  VL  and  much  interlined 
by  him. 


APPENDIX  I 

EAKLIEST  ENDOWMENTS  OF  THE  COLLEGE 

The  following  statement  as  to  the  earliest  endowments  of 
the  College  is  by  Mr.  J.  B.  Peace,  Bursar  of  the  College : 

The  evidences  of  our  early  history  as  preserved  in  College 
are  of  two  kinds.  There  are  on  the  one  hand  the  original 
deeds,  such  as  Queen  Elizabeth's  grant  of  leave  to  found  a 
College,  Mildmay's  deed  of  foundation,  and  the  title-deeds 
of  the  early  property  of  the  College,  and  on  the  other 
hand  books  of  accounts  and  other  records  kept  by  the  first 
body  of  College  officers.  Of  these  books  two  are  of 
especial  interest.  One  contains,  with  much  other  matter, 
the  earliest  lists  of  undergraduates ;  the  other,  a  large  and 
heavy  volume,  was  used  for  some  seventy  years  as  the 
Bursar's  receipt-book,  and  in  it  for  a  few  years  was  also 
kept  the  account  of  College  disbursements.  It  is  to  this 
second  volume  that  we  turn  for  information  as  to  the  early 
endowment  of  the  College.  The  deed  by  which  Mildmay 
founded  the  College  was  dated  May  25,  1584,  and  on 
August  1,  1585,  Dr.  Chaderton,  the  first  Master,  made  a 
careful  record  in  this  book  of  the  annual  rents  then  due  to 
the  College,  and  arising  from  property  which,  during  the 
previous  year,  had  been  either  gifted  to  or  bought  by  the 

202 


APPENDIX  I  203 

infant  foundation.  This  rental  is  of  considerable  interest, 
and  we  print  it  here  in  full.  According  to  it,  the  annual 
value  of  the  College  property  was  then  £158  6s.  8d.  The 
stream  of  early  benefaction  was  still,  however,  flowing,  and 
in  the  next  few  years  this  amount  was  considerably  in- 
creased. By  the  year  l632  the  annual  income  from  rents 
and  annuities  had  risen  to  £560. 

In  comparing  the  College  income  at  the  end  of  the 
sixteenth  century  with  its  value  at  the  beginning  of  the 
twentieth,  we  must,  of  course,  take  account  of  the  very 
great  difference  in  the  value  of  money,  and  we  must  also 
remember  that  in  earlier  times  the  methods  of  leasing  were 
also  different.  A  considerable  fine  or  premium  was  usually 
paid  for  a  new  lease  or  for  a  renewal,  so  that  the  annual 
rent  does  not  represent  the  full  return  which  the  College 
enjoyed  from  its  property.  These  fines,  moreover,  were 
not  brought  to  account  in  the  College  audit,  but  were 
administered  to  different  College  purposes  as  they  were 
received.  Further,  there  were  payments  in  kind,  which 
were  dealt  with  in  the  same  way. 

The  following  is  Chaderton's  '  rentall ': 


*A  rentall  made  yejirst  date  of  August  in  ye  xxvii'^  yeare  of  ye 
Raigne  of  our  Sovereigne  Ladie  Elizabeth  of  all  ye  Latmds, 
ten'%  Annuities  and  rents  charge  in  possessio7i  now  belonging 
to  Emmanuell  College  in  Cambridge. 

*  Annuitie. 

'  The  Queene*s  most  excellent  ma*'^  by  her  Ires  Patente 
under  ye  great  Scale  of  Englande  bearing  date  at  West- 
minster xix°  die  Februarii  A°  regno  sui  vicesimo  septimo 
hath  graunted  an  Annuitie  of  xvi^^  xiii^  iiii^  p.  Annum  for 
ever  to  ye  saide  College  to  be  paide  yearlie  oute  of  her 


204  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

highness  Receipt  at  Westm"  at  ye  feaste  of  S*  Michael 
the  Archanngell  and  the  Annunciation  of  our  Ladie  by 
even  porcons ; — xvi^^  xiii^  iiiid. 
'Rent  Charge. 

'  S""  Robert  Jermin  Knight  by  his  deede  indented  bearing 
date  ye  xxvii"'  daie  of  March  Anno  xxvii'*"  Eliz.  Reginae  is 
to  paie  yearHe  to  ye  sayde  College  a  Rent  charge  of  viii^'. 
Att  the  Feaste  of  S*  Michaell  the  Archangell  and  ye 
Annunciation  of  our  Ladie  by  even  porcons  issuinge  or 
going  out  of  the  tenement  and  landes  called  Short  Smithes 
in  pva  Wheltham  in  the  Countie  of  SufFolke,  w"'  the  clause 
of  distresse  for  ye  same  if  it  be  not  paide  within  fortie  daies 
next  after  either  of  ye  same  Feasts  and  under  the  paine  of 
forfeiture  of  Tenne  Shillings  for  default  of  everie  pay- 
ment : — viii^'. 

'  Robert  Tailor,  Esquier,  by  his  Deede  indented  bearing 
date  ye  eight  daie  of  May  A°  xxvii°  Elizabeth  Reginae  is  to 
paye  yearlie  to  ye  said  College  a  rent  charge  of  xx^*  at 
Michaell  the  Archanngell  and  The  Annunciation  of  our 
Ladie  by  even  porcons  issuing  or  going  out  of  his  Mannor 
and  Parsonage  of  Babarham  in  ye  Countie  of  Cambridge 
w^^  he  lately  purchased  of  Roger  Cois,  deceased,  w*''  a 
clause  of  distresse  for  ye  same  if  it  be  not  paide  within 
fortie  daies  next  after  either  of  ye  same  Feasts  and  under 
ye  paine  of  forfeiture  of  Twentie  Shillings  for  default  of 
everie  payment : — xx^'. 

'Edward  Leedes  of  Croxton  in  ye  countie  of  Camb. 
Doctor  of  Law,  by  his  dede  indented  bearing  date  ye  sixth 
daie  of  June  A°  xxvii°  Eliz.  Reginae  is  to  paie  yerelie  a 
rent  charge  of  xvi^i  to  ye  said  College  Att  ye  Feaste  of 
S'  Michaell  the  Archanngell  and  ye  Annunciation  of  our 
Ladie  by  even  porcons  yerelie  issuinge  or  going  out  of  his 
Mannor  of  Great  Gransden  in  ye  said  Countie  w"'  a  clause 
of  distresse  for  ye  same  if  it  be  not  paide  within  fortie  daies 


APPENDIX  I  205 

next  after  ye  same  feastes  and  under  ye  paine  of  forfeiture 
of  xx^  for  default  of  everie  payment : — xvf\ 

'Francis  Hastings,  Esquier,  by  his  deed  indented  bear- 
ing date  ye  xxiiii'*"  of  June  A°  xxvii°  Eliz.  Reginae  is  to 
paie  yearlie  a  rent  charge  of  viii'^  to  ye  said  College  at  the 
Feast  of  St.  Michaell  the  Archanngell  and  Th'  Annuncia- 
tion of  our  Ladie  by  even  porcons  issuing  or  going  out  of 
certen  Launds  and  Tenements  in  Brascott,  Newbold  Vernon 
and  Markett  Bosworth  in  ye  Countie  of  Leicester  w**"  a 
clause  of  distresse  for  ye  same  if  it  be  not  paide  within 
fortie  daies  next  after  either  of  ye  foresaid  feasts  under  ye 
paine  of  forfeiture  of  Twentie  shillings  for  default  of  everie 
payment : — viii^^ 
'Farme  Rents. 

'  Valentine  Dale,  Esquier,  one  ot  ye  M''^  ot  ye  requests  to 
her  Ma*'*^  holdeth  by  Indenture  of  Lease  from  ye  said 
College  dated  ye  xviii*""  day  of  June  A°  xxvii°  Eliz.  Reginae 
for  terme  of  xxi  years  from  ye  feaste  of  ye  Annunciation 
of  our  Ladie  last  past  before  ye  date  of  ye  said  Indenture 
xxiii  acres  of  marsh  ground  lying  in  Ripley  Marsh  in  ye 
parish  of  Barkinge  in  ye  Countie  of  Essex  paying  yerelie 
for  ye  same  xx^^  w^^  is  to  be  paid  half  yerelie  by  even 
porcons  in  ye  Hall  of  ye  said  College  with  a  clause  of 
reentrie  if  ye  same  be  not  paid  within  xxx''°  next  after  ye 
feast  daies  of  payment  thereof : — xx\ 

'  Nicholas  Gentil,  Citizen  and  Pultr  of  London  holdeth 
by  indenture  of  Lease  dated  ye  xxvii*^  dale  of  February  A° 
xv°  Eliz.  Reginae  for  ye  terme  of  xxx^'®  yeares  from  Th' 
Annunciation  of  our  Ladie  next  after  ye  date  of  ye  same 
indenture,  A  tent,  with  th'  appurtenances  late  in  ye  tenure 
of  Constance  Bickner  widow  situate  in  Graces  Street  in  ye 
parish  of  Allhallowes  in  Lombord  Street  in  London  and 
paieth  yerelie  for  ye  same  at  ye  feasts  of  St  John  Baptist, 
St  Michaell  Th'  Archanngell,  ye  na'*''  of  our  Lord  God  and 


206  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

th'  Annunciation  of  our  Ladie  iiii'^  by  even  porcons  w*""  a 
clause  of  Reentrie  if  ye  same  be  not  paid  w'4n  a  month 
next  after  ainie  of  ye  said  feasts : — iiii'^ 

'  John  Pentecost,  Citizen  of  London,  Clothworker  holdeth 
by  Indenture  of  Lease  dated  ye  first  daie  of  February  A° 
octavo  Elizabeth  Reginae  for  terme  of  three  score  years  fro 
ye  feast  of  ye  na''®  of  our  Lorde  God  last  before  ye  date  of 
ye  same  Indenture  A  teilt  with  th'  appurtenances  situate 
in  ye  parish  of  Allhallowes  in  Lombard  Street  aforesaid 
and  paieth  yerelie  for  ye  same  att  ye  feasts  of  St  John 
Baptist  and  ye  nativitie  of  our  Lord  iiii^^  w**"  a  clause  of 
reentrie  if  ye  same  be  not  paide  within  ii  monthes  next 
after  either  of  ye  same  feasts : — iiii^'. 

'  Jhon  Northampton  of  Godmanchester  yeoman  holdeth 
by  Indenture  of  Lease  dated  ye  xv*'*  daie  of  October  A° 
xxv°  Eliz.  Reginae  for  termes  of  xxi  yeres  fro  ye  feast  of  ye 
Annunciation  of  our  Ladie  next  to  come  after  ye  date  of  ye 
said  indenture  a  Tent  with  th'  appurtenances  in  God- 
mynchester  aforesaid,  sometime  in  ye  tenure  of  Jhon 
Heme,  and  paieth  yerelie  for  ye  same  xxvi'>  xiii^  iiii^ 
at  ye  feasts  of  St.  Michaell  Th'  Archanngell  and  Th' 
Annunciation  of  our  Ladie  by  even  porcons  with  codicon 
yt  if  ye  same  be  not  paide  within  xiii  daies  next  after 
either  of  ye  said  feasts  of  payment,  then  to  reenter: — 
xxvi^^  xiii^  iiii"^. 

'  Thomas  Fysher  of  Godmanchester  yeoman  holdeth  by 
indenture  of  lease  date  ye  xvi'*"  daie  of  Male  A°  xxvi°  Eliz. 
Reg.  for  ye  term  of  xxi  yeres  fro  ye  feast  of  ye  Annuncia- 
tion of  our  Ladie  then  last  past  before  ye  date  of  ye  same 
Indenture  A  Teilt  called  ye  Horse  Shoe  w***  ye  appur- 
tenances in  Godmanchester  aforesaid  and  paieth  yerelie  for 
ye  same  at  ye  feasts  of  St  John  Baptist,  St  Michaell  Th' 
Archangell,  ye  Natevitie  of  Christ,  and  ye  Annunciation  of 
our  Ladie  xxii'^  by  even  porcons  w*^  condicon  yt  if  ye  said 


APPENDIX  I  207 

rent  be  unpaid  over  or  after  ye  said  feasts  being  lawfullie 
demanded  then  to  reenter : — xxii^^ 
'  Reprise. 

'  Md.  thre  is  yearlie  to  be  paid  out  of  ye  said  Lands  and 
Tefits  in  Godmanchester  aforesaid  for  ye  maintenance  of  ye 
free  Grammar  Schole  thre  ye  summe  of  xx^» : — xx^*. 

'Laurence  Chaderton  Bachelor  in  Divinitie  M**  of  ye 
said  Colledge  is  to  paie  yearlie  at  ye  Feasts  of  St  Michaell 
Th'  Archanngell  and  Th'  Annunciation  of  our  Ladie  by 
even  porcons  for  ye  Tent  in  Cambridge  called  St  Nicholas 
Hostell...viii'. 

'  Mathew  Buck,  Citizen  and  Inholder  of  London  holdeth 
by  Indenture  of  Lease  dated  ye  xiii""  daie  of  December  A° 
xix°  Eliz.  Reg.  for  ye  terme  of  foure  score  and  nineteene 
years  from  ye  feast  of  ye  birth  of  our  Lord  God  next 
coming  after  ye  date  of  ye  same  Indenture.  A  capital 
messuage,  tent,  or  Inne  called  ye  foure  Swannes  situate  in 
Byshoppsgate  Street  in  ye  parish  of  St  Ethelberge  within 
ye  Citie  of  London.  And  paieth  yerelie  for  ye  same  at  ye 
feasts  of  ye  Annunciation  of  our  Ladie,  St  John  Baptist 
St  Michael  Th'  Archanngell,  and  the  Birth  of  our  Lord  God 
or  w'^*"  xxx^'®  daies  next  after  either  of  ye  said  feasts  xiii^^ 
by  even  porcons  w*""  condicon  y^  if  ye  said  rent  be  not  paid 
^thin  xxx*^  daies  after  anie  of  ye  said  feasts  and  no  sufficient 
distresse  upon  ye  premises  then  to  reenter : — xiii^'. 

'William  Wood  Citizen  and  Sadler  of  London  holdeth  by 
Indenture  of  lease  dated  ye  xvi'^  daie  of  December  A° 
xviii°  Eliz.  Reginae  for  ye  terme  of  60  years  from  ye  feast 
of  St  Michaell  Th'  Archangell  1585  one  messuage  or  Tent 
w'**  th'  appurtenances  situate  in  Bishoppes  gate  Street  in 
ye  parish  of  St  Ethelberge  aforesaid  and  paieth  yearlie  for 
ye  same  at  ye  feasts  of  ye  Berth  of  our  Lord  God,  th' 
annunciation  of  our  Ladie,  St  John  Baptest  and  St  Michaell 
Th'  Archanngell,  or  w'*"'"  xx*'°  daies  next  after  everie  of  ye 


208  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

same  feasts  iiii^^  by  equal  porcons  w*^  proviso  y*  if  ye  said 
rent  be  not  paid  w*^'"  xxx*'^  daies  next  after  anie  of  ye  said 
feasts  then  to  reenter ; — iiii^^. 

'Jhon  Wilde,  Citizen  and  Sadler  of  London  holdeth 
by  indenture  of  Lease  dated  ye  v^*"  daie  of  September  A° 
xxiii°  Eliz.  reginae  for  ye  terme  of  thirtie  and  one  yeares 
from  ye  feast  of  St  Michaell  Th'  Archanngell  next  coming 
after  ye  date  of  ye  same  Indenture  one  messuage  or  Teilt 
with  th'  appurtenances  situate  on  ye  west  syde  of  ye  fore- 
said Tent  called  ye  signe  of  ye  foure  Swannes  in  Byshoppes 
gate  Street  aforesaid  and  paieth  yearHe  for  ye  same  at  ye 
feasts  of  ye  birth  of  our  Lord  God,  Th'  Annunciation  of 
our  Ladie,  ye  nativitie  of  St  John  Baptist,  and  St  Michaell 
Th'  Archangell,  or  within  xxx^^  daies  next  insueing  ye  same 
feasts  viii^^  by  equal  porcons  w^**  proviso  y'  if  ye  said  rent 
be  not  paid  within  xxx*'^  daies  next  after  anie  of  ye  said 
feasts  or  in  default  be  made  in  any  of  ye  covenants  con- 
tained in  ye  same  indenture  then  to  reenter  : — viii^V 

The  following  is  a  summary  of  the  above  '  rentall '  : 

A  statement  of  the  Income  from  lands,  tenements,  annuities  and 
rent  charges,  belonging  to  Emmanuel  College  at  1st  August, 

1585:— 

£    s.    d. 

From  the  Queen      l6  13     4 

Sir  Robert  Jermyn's  rent  charge  from  lands 

in  Little  Wheltham       8     0     0 

Mr  Robert  Taylor's  rent  charge  from  the 

Manor  of  Babraham       20     0     0 

Dr  Edward  Leedes'  rent  charge  from  the 

Manor  of  Great  Gransden         ...          ...  1 6     0     0 

Mr  Francis  Hastings'  rent  charge  from  land 

in  Market  Bosworth,  &c.           8     0     0 

From  Ripley  Marsh — Valentine  Dale,  tenant  20     0     0 


APPENDIX  I 


From  a  tenement  in  Graces  Street  (or  Grace- 
church  Street) — Nicholas  Gentil,  tenant 
From  another  tenement  in  Graces  Street — 

John  Pentecost,  tenant... 
From  house  and  land  in  Godmanchester — 

John     Northampton     or      Normanton, 

tenant 
From  the  Horse  Shoe  Inn,  Godmanchester 

— Thomas  Fisher,  tenant 
From   St   Nicholas   Hostel — St   Andrew's 

Street,     Cambridge  —  Dr     Chaderton, 

tenant 
From  the  Four  Swans,  Bishopsgate  Street 

— Mathew  Buck,  tenant 
From    the   tenement   adjoining   the   Four 

Swans — William  Wood,  tenant 
From  the  tenement  to  the  west  of  the  Four 

Swans — John  Wild,  tenant 


Deduct  : 

Annual  Payment  to  the  Free  School  at  God- 
manchester 

Net  annual  Rentall     158     6     8 

The  royal  grant  of  an  annuity  of  <£l6  13s.  4d.  was  made 
by  deed  dated  February  19,  1584-85.  The  deed  recites 
that  at  the  dissolution  of  the  monasteries  it  was  found  that 
Glastonbury  Abbey  held  certain  property  subject  to  an 
annual  charge  of  £33  6s.  8d.  for  the  maintenance  of  ten 
scholars  or  exhibitioners  at  the  University  of  Oxford  ;  that, 
the  property  having  passed  to  the  Crown,  the  payment  was 
continued  by  Henry  VHI.,  Edward  VI.,  Mary,  and  EHza- 

14 


209 

£ 

S.    d. 

4 

0     0 

4 

0     0 

26 

13     4 

22 

0     0 

7 

0     0 

14 

0     0 

4 

0     0 

8 

0     0 

178 

6     8 

20 

0     0 

210  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

beth  herself,  and  that  now  the  Queen  decreed  that  half 
of  this  annual  payment  be  transferred  from  Oxford  to 
Cambridge,  and  be  there  given  to  Emmanuel  College,  lately 
founded  by  Sir  Walter  Mildmay.  This  Exchequer  pay- 
ment is  still  received  by  the  College,  but  office  and  other 
charges  have  diminished  it  by  some  £3  a.  year. 

Of  the  four  rent-charges  which  follow,  three — those  of 
Sir  Robert  Jermyn,  Mr.  Robert  Taylor,  and  Mr.  Francis 
Hastings  —  have  been  either  lost  or  redeemed.  The 
Jermyns  of  Rushbrooke,  Suffolk,  had  a  close  connexion 
with  the  College.  An  Edward  Jermyn  (or  Jermin)  was 
entered  as  a  Fellow-commoner  in  1585,  and  Sir  Robert's 
son.  Sir  Thomas  Jermyn,  presented  Bedell  to  the  living 
of  Horningsheath  in  l6l6.  Mr.  Robert  Taylor,  of  Babra- 
ham,  was  probably  a  friend  either  of  Mildmay  or  ot 
Chaderton.  He  took  part  in  the  negotiations  for  the 
College  site,  which  was  conveyed  to  him  by  George 
Sherwood  in  September,  1581,  and  conveyed  by  him  to 
Culverwell  and  Chaderton  in  June,  1585.  Culverwell 
and  Chaderton  then  handed  it  over  to  Mildmay,  who 
granted  it  to  the  College  in  his  deed  of  foundation.  The 
annuity  granted  by  Dr.  Leeds,  arising  out  of  the  Manor  of 
Great  Gransden,  is  now  represented  by  certain  manorial 
rents  amounting  to  about  thirty-five  shillings  per  annum, 
and  a  small  farm  allotted,  under  an  enclosure  Act,  to  the 
College  as  Lords  of  the  Manor,  the  College  having  purchased 
the  manor  in  1 599. 

The  meadow  in  Ripley  Marsh  was  given  by  Sir  Walter 
Mildmay  by  a  deed  dated  May  13,  1585.  It  is  still  owned 
by  the  College,  and  has  probably  suffered  less  change  than 
any  other  part  of  the  College  property.  It  was  let  to  Dr. 
Dale  in  1 585  for  £20,  and  brings  in  very  little  more  now. 

The  two  houses  in  Graces  or  Gracechurch  Street,  then 
known  as  the   Harrow  and   the   Ball,  now  Nos.  74  and 


APPENDIX  I  211 

75,  were  given  to  the  College  in  July,  1585,  by  Thomas 
Smith  (or  Smyth),  '  for  the  great  love,  favour,  and  affection 
which  he  beareth  to  and  for  the  maintenance  and  increase 
of  virtue  and  learning.'  Smith  can  be  identified,  almost 
with  certainty,  as  a  wealthy  London  merchant,  who  founded 
a  free  school  at  Ton  bridge.  He  was  the  first  governor  of 
the  East  India  Company,  was  tried  for  complicity  in  Essex's 
rebellion,  but  acquitted,  was  knighted  in  l603,  was  elected 
treasurer  of  the  Virginia  Company  l620,  and  died  l625. 

The  Godmanchester  property  consisted  of  the  Horseshoe 
Inn,  which  still  retains  its  ancient  name,  and  some  other 
houses  and  land.  The  property  was  given  by  the  founder 
in  1585.  Its  extent  has  been  somewhat  increased  under 
enclosure  Acts,  and  the  annual  payment  of  j£20  to  the 
Godmanchester  School  is  still  regularly  made. 

St.  Nicholas'  Hostel,  in  St.  Andrew's  Street,  was  the  first 
piece  of  property  in  Cambridge,  outside  the  actual  site, 
owned  by  the  College.  It  was  bought  in  March,  1585,  for 
£150,  of  which  j£l40  was  given  by  Thomas  Killigrew,  who 
gave  the  money  to  provide  a  residence  for  the  Master. 
Chaderton  seems  to  have  resided  here,  in  any  case,  during 
the  building  of  the  College,  and  later  on  after  he  resigned 
the  mastership.  The  houses  are  now  JSos.  62  and  63,  St. 
Andrew's  Street,  immediately  beyond  the  high  building  of 
the  Liberal  Club. 

Of  the  three  houses  in  Bishopsgate  Street,  two — the 
Four  Swans  and  another — were  given  by  the  founder  on 
November  14,  1585,  and  the  third  by  John  Morly,  of 
Mickleham,  Sussex,  on  the  same  day.  It  seems,  therefore, 
that  at  the  date  of  Chaderton's  inventory  these  houses  had 
not  yet  been  formally  conveyed  to  the  College.  The 
name  of  the  Four  Swans  is  still  preserved,  though  in  the 
street  directory  it  is  known  as  Nos.  82  and  84,  Bishopsgate 
Street  Within. 

14—2 


212  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

The  first  list  of  rents  received  is  entered  by  Chaderton 
as  follows : 

'  Rents  due  to  Emmanuel  College  in  Cambridge  from  the  feast 
of  Saint  Michael  TK  Archangell  in  Anno  1585  receyved 
by  me   Laurence  Chaderton  M''  of  the   same  as  in  the 
particulars  folowing  most  playnlie  appeareth. 
'  Cambridge. 

'  Imprimis  receyved  for  the  rent  of  a  house  called  St 
Nicholas  Hostle  due  at  Michaelmas  last  six  shillings  eight 
pence  w^^  our  good  founder  did  appoint  and  accept  for  one 
half  years  rent  in  regard  of  one  hundred  markes  w'^^  I  hadd 
spent  upon  reparations  and  buylding  that  ould  house 
receyved  I  saye  vi^  viii**. 

'  Receyved  of  Goodma  Bosse  for  his  half  years  rent  due 
at  Michaelmas  last  for  his  house  called  the  Challice  the 
sum  of  XX vi^  viii^. 

'  R^  of  Mr  Robert  Tayleor  esquier  for  his  annuitie  out  of 
his  manor  of  Babraham  for  his  half  years  rent  due  at 
Michaelmas  last  tene  pounds : — x^K 

'  Rd  of  M""  Doctor  Leedes  for  his  Annuitie  given  out  of 
his  lands  at  Croxton  for  his  half  years  rent  due  at  Michael- 
mas last  eight  pounds : — viii^^ 
'  London  or  Middlesex. 

'  Rd  of  M""  Doctor  Dale  one  of  ye  M''^  of  Th'  exchecker 
for  his  half  years  rent  due  at  Michaelmas  last  ten  pounds  : 
— xii. 

'  Rd  of  M"^  Raven  for  her  M^^'^s  gift  out  of  Th'  exchecker 
for  the  half  years  rent  due  at  Michaelmas  last  eight  pounds 
six  shillings  and  eight  pence : — viii^'  vi^  viii^. 
'  Huntingdon. 

'  R^  of  Robert  Thorp  for  our  land  in  Godmanchester  as 
parcell  of  the  whole  rent,  th'  other  part  being  bestowed  at 
our  founders  good  discretion  four  pounds  six  shillings  four 
pence  : — iiii^'  vi^  iiii'^.' 


APPENDIX  I  213 

From  this  list  it  appears  that  no  rent  had  been  received 
from  the  Gracechurch  Street  property.  This  was  conveyed 
to  the  College  in  July,  but  the  leases  under  which  it  was 
held  by  Pentecost  and  Gentil  were  transferred  as  from  the 
following  Michaelmas.  The  Bishopsgate  Street  rents  ran 
as  from  Christmas,  1585,  the  property  having  been  con- 
veyed in  November.  On  the  other  hand,  a  receipt  of  rent 
appears  as  from  a  tenement  in  Cambridge  called  the 
Chalice.  This  was  conveyed  to  the  College  in  May,  1585, 
by  the  gift  of  Dr.  Harvey,  and  it  is  not  clear  why  it  was 
omitted  in  Chaderton's  'rentall.'  This  house  occupied  the 
site  on  which  now  stands  the  shop  tenanted  by  Messrs. 
Flack  and  Judge,  grocers. 


APPENDIX   II 

THE  COLLEGE  BENEFACTORS 

It  would  be  impossible  here  to  give  full  details  or  complete 
lists  of  the  College  property  acquired  by  gift  or  purchase 
throughout  its  existence.  It  will  be  enough  to  get  some 
view  of  the  amount  on  which  it  started  on  its  career, 
and  a  general  view  of  the  means  by  which  it  gradually 
increased,  summarizing  for  the  earlier  period  the  state- 
ments of  Mr.  Peace.  The  return  made  by  Chaderton  at 
the  end  of  the  first  year  of  its  existence  showed  a  rental 
of  £158  6s.  8d.  (equivalent  to  about  £800  at  the  present 
value  of  money).  This  rental  included  £l6  13s.  4d.  from 
the  Exchequer,  £8  from  the  rent-charge  given  by  Jermyn, 
,£20  rent-charge  on  Babraham  Manor  given  by  R.  Taylor, 
£8  rent-charge  granted  by  Francis  Hastings,  and  £l6  rent- 
charge  given  by  E.  Leeds  of  Croxton.  The  remainder 
(£99  13s.  4d.)  represents  what  was  actually  given  by  the 
founder,  besides  the  site  and  buildings.  This  included  lands 
in  Barking,  Essex  (Ripley  Marsh) ;  a  house  in  Lombard 
Street ;  a  house  with  appurtenances  in  Godmanchester,  and 
an  inn  called  the  Horseshoe — charged  with  an  annuity  ot 
£20  to  Godmanchester  School ;  two  tenements  in  Grace- 
church  Street ;  the  Four  Swans  in  Bishopsgate  Street ;  and 
two  other  tenements.      The   rent-charges  named  above, 

214 


APPENDIX  II  215 

except  that  of  Croxton,  have  disappeared.  They  seem  all 
to  have  been  given  by  friends  of  Sir  Walter  Mildmay,  or  by 
those  who,  sympathizing  with  the  object,  joined  in  founding 
the  College.  The  £140  given  by  Thomas  Killigrew,  with 
which  the  College  made  its  first  purchase  (St.  Nicholas' 
Hostel,  in  St.  Andrew's  Street)  may  be  counted  in  the 
same  category.  In  l632  the  income  had  risen  to  £560 
per  annum,  and  for  some  time  did  not  much  exceed  that 
(equivalent  to  about  £2,000  at  the  present  day).  In  1903 
the  external  College  income  officially  returned  for  publica- 
tion was  £13,648  19s.  3d. 

The  subjoined  dates  as  to  the  earliest  acquisitions  of 
the  College  will  show  how  the  estate  grew  in  the  first  five 
years  of  its  existence,  mainly  through  the  influence  of  the 
founder  : 

1583.  June  12  :  Robert    Taylor    conveyed    the    site    to 

Chaderton  and  Culverwell. 
November  23  :  Chaderton  and  Culverwell  conveyed 
it  to  Mildmay. 

1584.  January  11  :  Queen  Elizabeth  granted  the  license. 
May  25  :  Sir  Walter  Mildmay  sealed  the  deed   of 

foundation. 
May  29  :  Francis  Chamberlain  gave  the  rectory  of 
Little  Melton  and  lands  in  Great  Melton. 

1585.  January  26  :  Sir  Francis  Walsingham  gave  the  ad- 

vowson  of  Thurcaston. 
February  19:  Queen  Elizabeth  gave  an  annuity  of 

£l6  13s.  4d. 
March  27 :    Sir    Robert   Jermyn   gave    an    annuity 

of  £8. 
March  27  :  The  College  bought  St.  Nicholas'  Hostel 

for  £150. 


216  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

May  8  :  Robert  Taylor  gave  an  annuity  of  £20  from 
the  Manor  of  Babraham. 

May  12  :  The  College  bought  the  Chalice,  in  St. 
Andrew's  Street  (now  Flack  and  Judge),  with 
money  given  by  Dr.  Harvey. 

May  1 3 ;  Mildmay  gave  land  in  Ripley  Marsh, 
Barking. 

June  15  :  Dr.  Leeds  gave  an  annuity  of  £l6. 

July  10;  Thomas  Smith  gave  two  houses  in  Grace- 
church  Street. 

August  1  :  Mildmay  gave  the  Horseshoe,  etc.,  in 
Godmanchester. 

November  14:  Mildmay  gave  the  Four  Swans,  in 
Bishopsgate  Street. 

November  14:  John  Morley  gave  the  house  ad- 
joining. 

1586.  January  22;  John  Howson  gave  tenements  in  St. 

Dunton's  Alley. 

1587.  July    17:    The    College    purchased    Hyde    Farm, 

Balham,  and  other  land  with  Mrs.  Frankland's 
gift. 

July  24  :  Dr.  Leeds  gave  the  Pensionary  in  Em- 
manuel Lane. 

May  1 9  :  Nich.  Fuller  gave  houses  in  West  Smith- 
field. 

1588.  March  2  ;  Thomas  Skinner  gave  an  annuity  of  £8. 
April  12  ;  Sir  Walter  Mildmay  bought  up  R.  Symons' 

lease    of  the    Pensionary   and    gave  it   to    the 

College. 
July  1  :  Sir  Walter  Mildmay  gave  land  at  Stondon. 
September  27  :  John  Bams,  by  will,  gave  houses  in 

Threadneedle  Street. 
October  25 :  Sir  Walter  Mildmay  gave  £8  annuity 

from  Standground. 


APPENDIX  II  217 

1589.  March    6  :     Robert    Snagg    gave    an    annuity    of 
£6  13s.  4d. 
After  1589,  the  year  of  Mildmay's  death,  gifts  were 
much  less  frequent.  ^ 

It  will  be  seen  that  among  the  earliest  benefactions 
were  advowsons  of  livings.  Sir  Walter  had  given  one  only 
— Standground.  But  as  the  Fellows  were  to  vacate  their 
Fellowships  at  the  standing  of  D.D.,  and  were  expected 
then  to  take  up  clerical  duties,  it  was  of  great  importance 
to  them  that  there  should  be  livings  to  which  they  might 
succeed.  Hence,  one  object  of  the  Dixie  benefaction  was 
the  purchase  of  advowsons.  The  College  is  now  the 
patron  of  twenty-four  livings. 

The  list  of  benefactors  read  yearly  in  chapel  will  give 
a  sufficient  view  of  gradual  growth  of  the  estate,  and  the 
channels  through  which  that  increase  has  found  its  way 
into  the  hands  of  the  College. 


LIST  OF  BENEFACTOKS  YEARLY  COMMEMORATED 
IN  THE  COLLEGE  CHAPEL 

The  right  honourable  Sir  Walter  Mildmay,  Knight, 
Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  and  Privy  Councillor  to  Queen 
Elizabeth,  Founder,  1584. 

26  Eliz.,  11  Jan. ;  27  Eliz.,  19  Feb. :  Queen  Elizabeth, 
besides  her  patent  and  license  of  mortmain,  gave  a  per- 
petual annuity  out  of  her  Royal  Exchequer. 

28  Eliz.,  19  Jan. :  The  right  honourable  Henry  Hast- 
ings, Earl  of  Huntingdon,  gave  the  perpetual  patronage  of 
the  rectories  of  Loughborough,  Aller,  and  North  Cadbury. 

Sir  Francis  Hastings,  Knight,  brother  to  the  said  Earl, 
gave  eight  pounds  per  annum. 

27  Eliz.,  26  Jan. :    Sir  Francis  Walsingham,  Knight, 


218  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

Secretary  of  State  to  Queen  Elizabeth,  gave  the  perpetual 
patronage  of  the  rectory  of  Thurcaston. 

26  Eliz.,  16  Nov. ;  32  Eliz. ;  Sir  Wolstan  Dixie,  Knight, 
gave  six  hundred  and  fifty  pounds  towards  building  the 
College,  and  six  hundred  pounds  for  the  maintenance  of 
two  Fellows  and  two  scholars  of  his  foundation. 

36  Eliz.,  20  Apr.  :  The  Lady  Agnes,  his  wife,  gave  eight 
pounds  per  annum  for  a  Hebrew  and  Greek  lecture. 

Sir  John  Hart,  Knight,  gave  fifty  pounds  towards  build- 
ing the  College. 

27  Eliz.,  16  Jun. ;  29  Eliz.,  24  Jul.:  Edward  Leeds, 
Doctor  of  Laws,  Master  of  Clare  Hall,  gave  a  thousand 
marks  towards  building  the  College  and  sixteen  pounds 
per  annum. 

29  Eliz.,  17  Jul.:  Mrs.  Walters,  widow  of  Richard 
Walters,  citizen  of  London,  and  Mrs.  Joyce  Franklyn, 
gave  each  four  hundred  pounds  towards  augmenting  the 
number  of  Fellows  and  scholars. 

30  Eliz.,  3  Jul. :  William  Romney,  Esquire,  sometime 
Lord  Mayor  of  London,  gave  the  perpetual  patronage  of 
the  rectory  of  North  Luffenham. 

The  reverend  Robert  Johnson,  Archdeacon  of  Leicester, 
gave  twenty-five  pounds  per  annum  for  four  exhibitions. 

44  Eliz. :  Edmund  English,  of  the  city  of  Westminster, 
Esquire,  gave  one  thousand  pounds  for  augmenting  the 
number  of  Fellows  and  scholars. 

30  Eliz.,  l6  Jul. :  William  Neal,  of  London,  Esquire, 
gave  the  perpetual  patronage  of  Brompton  Regis  and 
Winsford. 

The  reverend  William  Sandcroft,  Doctor  in  Divinity 
and  Master  of  the  College,  gave  one  hundred  pounds  to 
buy  plate  for  the  Communion. 

l654:  Mr.  Francis  Ash,  citizen  of  London,  settled 
lands  on  the  College  to  the  value  of  one  hundred  and 


APPENDIX  II  219 

seventy  pounds  per  annum  for  the  foundation  of  scholar- 
ships and  for  other  purposes. 

1656:  The  reverend  John  Wells,  Rector  of  Thum- 
ing,  gave  the  perpetual  patronage  of  that  living,  to  which 
he  annexed  some  lands,  charged  with  the  maintenance  of 
an  exhibition. 

A.D.  1670 :  The  reverend  Benjamin  Whichcot,  Doctor 
in  Divinity,  sometime  Fellow  of  the  College,  in  execution 
of  the  will  of  John  Larkin,  gave  one  thousand  pounds  for 
founding  scholarships  and  for  other  advantages  of  the 
College. 

A.D.  1670 ;  The  reverend  John  Sudbury,  Doctor  in 
Divinity,  Dean  of  Durham,  gave  about  five  hundred  pounds 
for  the  maintenance  of  a  Greek  Lecturer,  for  providing  a 
piece  of  plate  to  be  given  yearly  to  the  best  proficient  in 
Literature  among  the  commencing  Bachelors  of  Arts,  and 
for  other  uses  of  the  College. 

A.D.  l684  :  The  most  reverend  William  Sancroft,  Lord 
Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  sometime  Master  of  the  College, 
gave  towards  the  building  of  the  chapel  about  five  hundred 
and  eighty  pounds ;  besides  other  benefactions,  including 
a  valuable  treasure  of  books.  He  also  gave  the  perpetual 
patronage  of  the  consolidated  vicarage  of  Fressingfield  and 
the  rectory  of  Withersdale  in  Suffolk. 

Sir  Robert  Gayer,  Knight  of  the  Bath,  gave  one  thou- 
sand and  forty  pounds  towards  the  building  of  the  chapel. 

A.D.  1675  :  The  reverend  John  Breton,  Doctor  in 
Divinity,  Master  of  the  College,  gave  the  perpetual 
patronage  of  Wallington  in  Hertfordshire. 

A.D.  I68O  :  The  reverend  Thomas  Holbech,  Doctor  in 
Divinity,  Master  of  the  College,  gave  by  his  will  about 
fifty  pounds  per  annum  for  maintaining  a  Catechist  and 
Ecclesiastical  Lecturer,  and  for  other  uses  of  the  College. 

A.D.  1621 :  Robert  Ryce,  Esquire,  gave  the  perpetual 


220  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

patronage  of  the  vicarage  of  Preston  in  Suffolk,  endowed 
with  the  impropriated  rectory  of  the  same. 

A.D.  1722  :  The  reverend  Richard  Gillingham,  Master 
of  Arts  of  the  College  and  Vicar  of  Chigwell  in  Essex, 
gave  sixteen  hundred  pounds  for  the  founding  of  a  Fellow- 
ship. 

A.D.  1736:  The  reverend  John  Brown,  Bachelor  in 
Divinity,  sometime  Fellow  of  the  College  and  Rector  of 
Wallington  in  Hertfordshire,  gave  upwards  of  two  thousand 
pounds  for  the  augmentation  of  the  stipend  of  the  Master 
and  Fellows,  and  for  the  founding  of  two  scholarships. 

The  reverend  Michael  Smith,  Doctor  in  Divinity  of  this 
College,  left  by  will  seven  hundred  pounds  to  purchase 
lands,  out  of  which  the  sum  of  sixteen  pounds  per  annum 
is  allotted  towards  the  maintenance  of  an  exhibitioner,  and 
the  remainder  to  other  uses  of  the  College. 

The  reverend  George  Thorpe,  Doctor  in  Divinity,  some- 
time Fellow  of  the  College  and  Prebendary  of  Canterbury, 
gave  property  in  Kent  to  the  value  of  one  hundred  and  ten 
pounds  per  annum,  with  a  manor  belonging  thereto,  for  five 
exhibitions  and  other  uses  of  the  College. 

A.D.  1636:  Mr.  Walter  Travers,  sometime  Fellow  of 
Trinity  College,  gave  one  hundred  pounds  for  the  founding 
of  a  scholarship. 

Thomas  Hobs,  Esquire,  gave  about  eight  pounds  per 
annum  for  two  exhibitions. 

A.D.  1639:  Mr.  Walter  Richards,  sometime  of  the 
College,  gave  eight  pounds  per  annum  for  two  exhibitions. 

Mrs.  Ann  Hunt,  of  the  county  of  Suffolk,  widow,  by 
the  appointment  of  her  son,  Mr.  John  Collins,  Bachelor 
of  Laws,  Fellow-commoner,  gave  ten  pounds  per  annum 
towards  the  maintenance  of  two  scholars. 

A.D.  1778  :  The  reverend  Henry  Hubbard,  Bachelor  in 
Divinity,  many  years  Fellow  of  the  College  and  Registrary 


APPENDIX  II  221 

of  the  University,  gave  upwards  of  four  thousand  pounds, 
part  of  which  he  appropriated  to  the  augmentation  of  the 
stipend  of  the  best  and  most  able  scholar  upon  Dr.  Thorpe's 
foundation.  He  also  bequeathed  to  the  College  a  valuable 
collection  of  books. 

Among  later  benefactors  are  : 

A.D.  1830  :  Mr.  Henry  Lusby,  of  Stratford  in  Essex, 
who  gave  property  at  Stratford,  Hornechurch,  and  Nave- 
stock,  to  the  value  of  three  hundred  and  thirty  pounds 
per  annum. 

The  reverend  John  Cooke  gave  the  sum  of  two  hundred 
pounds  for  the  increase  of  the  plate  money  left  by 
Dr.  Sudbury  and  Mr.  Hubbard. 

A.D.  1871  :  The  reverend  George  Archdall-Grat- 
wicKE,  Doctor  of  Divinity,  late  Master  of  this  College,  left 
by  will  the  sum  of  six  thousand  pounds  for  the  general 
uses  of  the  College. 

Besides  these  benefactions  more  particularly  described, 
there  are  others  whose  gifts  have  enriched  the  general 
revenues : 

27  Eliz.,  27  Mar. :  Sir  Robert  Jermyn,  Knight. 

27  Eliz.,  27  Mar. :  Sir  Thomas  Killegrew,  of  the  county 
of  Cornwall,  Knight. 

27  Eliz.,  20  Jul. :  Sir  Thomas  Smith,  Knight. 

30  Eliz.,  2  Mar. :  Sir  Thomas  Skinner,  Knight. 

Mr.  Anthony  Radcliffe,  Alderman  of  London. 

30  Eliz.,  3  Oct.  :  The  Lady  Mary  Darrell,  of  the 
county  of  Essex. 

Mrs.  Martha  Jermyn. 

Mrs.  Owen,  of  London. 

27  Eliz.,  12  May:  Henry  Harvey,  Doctor  of  Laws, 
Master  of  Trinity  Hall. 

18   Jac,   22    Mar.:   William   Branthwait,   Doctor   in 


222  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

Divinity,   Fellow   of  the   College,   afterwards    Master  of 
Gonville  and  Caius  College. 

27  Eliz.,  8  May  :  Robert  Taylor,  Esquire. 

29  Eliz.,  7  Oct. :  Nicholas  Fuller,  of  Gray's  Inn, 
Esquire. 

Mr.  Ellys,  of  Yorkshire. 

Mr.  Richard  Culverwell,  citizen  of  London. 

Mr.  Fish,  citizen  of  London. 

John  Spenliffe,  of  Fulthorpe  in  Lincolnshire,  Esquire. 

28  Eliz.,  6  Nov.  :  Robert  Sneg,  of  Letchworth  in  Hert- 
fordshire, Esquire. 

27  Eliz.,  14  Nov. :  Mr.  John  Morley,  of  Michaelham  in 
Sussex. 

Mr.  John  Sleigh,  of  Bernard's  Inn. 

30  Eliz.,  27  Sept.  :  Mr.  John  Barns,  citizen  of  London. 
A.D.  l6l8  :    The   Lady  Grace   Mildmay,  wife   of  Sir 

Anthony  Mildmay. 

The  reverend  Thomas  Alleyne,  late  Fellow  of  the 
College,  and  afterwards  Rector  of  Loughborough. 

The  right  reverend  Richard  Hurd,  Lord  Bishop  of 
Worcester,  many  years  Fellow  of  the  College. 

Richard  Hurd,  Esquire,  nephew  of  the  last-named 
Lord  Bishop  of  Worcester. 

The  reverend  James  Devie,  Bachelor  in  Divinity,  Fellow 
of  the  College,  and  afterwards  Vicar  of  Standground. 


APPENDIX  III 

THE  PICTUEES 

In  the  Hall. 

East  Wall 

Cetdre :  The  Founder,  holding  his  staff  of  office.     (This 

picture  is  probably  not  genuine.) 
Right :  Sir  W.  Mildmay  (purchased  from  Apethorp). 
Left  :  Lady  Mildmay  (purchased  from  Apethorp). 

NoHh  Wall. 

J.  Sudbury,  D.D. 
Benjamin  Which  cot,  D.D. 
Henry  Hubbard,  B.D. 

South  Wall. 

Mr.  Francis  Ash. 
George  Thorpe,  D.D. 
W.  Richardson,  D.D. 

In  the  Combination-Room. 

The  Founder. 

R.  Kidder,  Bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells  (Mary  Beale). 

W.  Younge  (a  late  copy). 

223 


224  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

John  Bradshaw,  regicide  (presented  by  Huyshe  Yateman, 
Bishop  of  South wark,  late  Dixie  Scholar). 

Oliver  Cromwell  (presented  by  Rev.  G.  P.  Haydon,  B.A. 
1868). 

E.  H.  Browne,  D.D.,  Fellow,  Bishop  of  Ely  and  Win- 
chester (G.  F.  Watts). 

F.  J.  A.  Hort,  D.D.,  Fellow,  Lady  Margaret  Professor 
of  Divinity  (Jacomb  Hood). 

Mandel  Creighton,  D.D.,  first  Dixie  Professor,  Bishop  of 

Peterborough  and  London  (H.  Harris  Brown). 
Samuel  Parr,  LL.D.  (Romney). 
Richard  Farmer,  D.D.  (Romney). 
Sir  Wolstan  Dixie,  benefactor  (1525-1594.). 

In  the  Lodge. 
Study. 

Mr.  Thornton.  )  t^  ,,       ^ 

T>     •      •     A/f- iji  1.       h  Fellow  Commoners. 
.  Benjamm  Middleton.  j 

William  Kingsley,  A.M.  (Mary  Beale). 

Dining-Room. 

Sir  William  Temple  (Lely). 
Sir  Edmund  Bacoii^ 
Dr.  Balderston. 

Staircase. 

John  Fane,  Lord  Westmorland,  Lord  -  Lieutenant  of 
Ireland,  1790  (Romney). 

Anteroom  of  Gallery. 
The  Founder,  dated  1579. 


APPENDIX  III  225 

The  Gallery. 

Nos. 

18.  The    Founder,   painted   for   the   College,  and   placed 

originally  in  the  library,  dated  1588. 
12.  The  Founder,  dated  1588. 

19.  Anthony  Mildmay,  son  of  the  Founder,  ob.  l6l7. 

20.  Grace,  Lady  Mildmay,    widow   of  Sir   Anthony   and 

daughter  of  Sir  Henry  Sherringham. 
7.   Ralf  Simonds,  architect  of  the  College. 
25.  Dr.    Preston,   second   Master   of  the  College   (1622- 
1628). 
1.  Dr.  Breton,  Master  l665-l674. 
34.  Dr.    Holbech,  Master  l674-l680. 
4.  William  Branthwaite,  Fellow  1584,  Master  of  Caius, 
1607. 

32.  Samuel  Ward,  Fellow  1595,  Master  of  Sidney. 

30.  Joseph    Hall,    Fellow    1595,   Bishop    of    Bristol    and 
Norwich. 
6.  Ralf  Cudworth,  Fellow  1639-1 654,  Master  of  Christ's. 
3.  Benjamin  Whichcote,  Fellow  1 633-1643,    Provost   of 

King's. 
9.  Lord  Keeper  Finch,  Speaker  of  the  House  of  Commons, 

1628. 
10.  Sir  Francis  Peml^rton,  Lord  Chief  Justice,  1681. 
13.  Rev.  Benjamin  Pemberton,  Fellow  1739  (Romney). 
8.  W.  Sancroft,   D.D.,  Master   1662-63;   Archbishop  of 
Canterbury. 
15.  Sir  Purey  Cust,  fought  at  the  Battle  of  the  Boyne. 

2.  John  Sudbury,  D.D.,  Dean  of  Durham,  ob.  l684. 
17.  Joshua  Barnes,  Fellow  1678,  Greek  Professor  1695. 
27.  William  Richardson,  D.D.,  Master  1736-1775. 
22.  Henry  Hubbard,  B.D.,  Tutor  1736-1767. 

33.  Richard  Hurd,  D.D.,  Fellow  1742,  Bishop  of  Lichfield 

and  Coventry  (Gainsborough). 

15 


226  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

Nos. 

26.  James  Gardiner,  Bishop  of  Lincoln,  1694-1709. 
21.  Charles  Jackson,  Bishop  of  Kildare  (Gainsborough). 
23.  William  Bennet,  D.D.,  Fellow  1773,  Bishop  of  Cloyne, 

1794. 
34.  Roger  Long,  D.D.,  Master  of  Pembroke,  1733-1770. 
14.  Peter  AUix,  D.D.,  French  pastor  and  historian  of  the 

Waldenses  (1641-1717). 
29.  Anthony   Askew,    M.D.,  scholar  and   book   collector 

(1722-1774). 
9.  Mrs.  Joyce  Frankland,  benefactress,  oh.  1.587. 

6.  Francis  Ash,  citizen  of  London,  founder  of  the  Ash 

Exhibitions. 

7.  George  Thorpe,  D.D.,  Fellow  1663,  Canon  of  Canter- 

bury. 
11.  Earl  of  Westmorland  (Charles  Francis,  I690). 
28.  An  unknown  Lady  of  the  time  of  Elizabeth. 


APPENDIX  IV 

THE  COLLEGE  PATKONAGE 

The  livings  in  the  gift  of  the  College  came,  for  the  most 
part,  early  into  its  possession,  except  those  which  have 
been  purchased  from  time  to  time  by  the  accumulations 
from  the  Dixie  estate.  The  advowsons  given  to  the 
College  are  : 

1.  Standground  and  Farcet,  Huntingdonshire,  given  by 
the  founder.  They  were  at  first  united,  but  were  separated 
in  1885* 

2.  Loughborough,  Leicestershire,  given  by  the  Earl  of 
Huntingdon  in  1586.  In  1848  the  living  was  divided 
into  two  rectories,  namely,  Loughborough  and  Emmanuel 
Church. 

3.  Thurcaston,  Leicestershire,  given  by  Sir  Francis 
Walsingham  in  1585. 

4.  North  Cadbury,  Somersetshire,  given  by  the  Earl  of 
Huntingdon  in  1586.  The  possession  of  this  advowson 
was  contested  in  l624  and  l644,  but  on  both  occasions 
the  suit  went  in  favour  of  the  College. 

*  The  founder  also  gave  the  patronage  of  Queen  Camel  in 
Somersetshire;  but  it  was  afterwards  united  to  other  livings,  and 
was  lost  to  the  College.  It  is  still  in  the  patronage  of  a  Mild- 
may. 

227  15—2 


228  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

5.  Aller,  Somersetshire,  given  by  the  Earl  of  Hunt- 
ingdon, to  which  the  College  first  presented  in  l632.* 

6.  North  Luffenham,  Rutland,  given  by  William  Romney, 
Lord  Mayor  of  London  in  1591. 

7.  Fressingfield  cum  Withersdale,  Suffolk,  given  by 
Archbishop  Sancroft  in  l684.  The  Master  presents  to 
this  living. 

8.  Twyford,  Hampshire,  left  to  the  College  in  1704  by 
Carew  Mild  may,  on  condition  that  the  College  should 
nominate,  and  the  heir  of  Mildmay  present.  Originally 
it  was  the  practice  for  the  College  to  nominate  two,  of 
which  the  heir  of  Mildmay  chose  one. 

[9.  Wallington,  Hertfordshire,  given  by  John  Breton, 
Master  1665-1 675.  The  Master  was  to  nominate  and 
present,  but  must  choose  one  of  the  society.  The 
advowson  of  this  living  was  sold  by  the  College  in  1899  to 
Mr.  D.  Owen  for  £700.] 

10.  Thurning,  Huntingdonshire,  bequeathed  to  the 
College  in  l656  by  John  Wells,  who  was  encumbent  and 
patron  of  the  living.  He  also  left  a  sum  of  money  to  the 
College. 

11.  Brompton  Regis,  Somersetshire,  given  by  William 
Neale  in  1609. 

12.  Winston,  Somersetshire,  given  also  by  W.  Neale. 

13.  Preston,  Suffolk,  given  in  162I  by  Robert  Rice.f 

*  Henry  Hastings,  third  Earl  of  Huntingdon  (1535 -1595),  brother- 
in-law  of  Lord  Leicester,  being  descended  from  the  Poles,  had 
some  claim  to  the  throne  after  Elizabeth,  and  was  thought  to  have 
favoured  the  Puritans,  hoping  for  their  support.  Besides  the  two 
livings  given  by  him,  he  also  settled  on  Emmanuel  the  vicarage  of 
Piddleton  in  Dorsetshire,  but  by  some  flaw  in  the  deed  it  was  lost 
to  the  College. 

f  The  living  of  Hemstead  in  Suffolk  was  also  left  on  condition 
that  the  College  made  the  next  three  presentations,  and  then  came 
to  some  arrangement  with  the  heir ;  but  after  the  third  presenta- 
tion, in  1750,  the  heir  contested  the  case,  and  apparently  won. 


APPENDIX  IV  229 

Other  livings  have  been  purchased  by  accumulations 
from  the  Dixie  estate,  in  accordance  with  the  will  of 
Sir  Wolstan  Dixie,  who,  having  contributed  £650  to  the 
building  of  the  College,  left,  at  his  death  in  1594,  the  sum 
of  £600  to  purchase  an  estate  to  endow  two  Fellowships 
and  two  scholarships.  The  stipend  of  the  Fellows  (who 
had  not  the  rights  or  status  of  foundation  Fellows)  and 
of  the  scholars  was  small,  and  the  estate  purchased  by  this 
benefaction  in  time  produced  a  considerable  surplus,  the 
accumulation  of  which  was  accordingly  invested  from  time 
to  time  in  advowsons,  the  presentation  to  which  was 
alternately  to  a  Dixie  Fellow  and  a  foundation  Fellow. 
The  Commissioners  of  1881  abolished  the  Fellowships  and 
the  purchase  of  advowsons,  and  devoted  the  proceeds  of 
the  estate  to  the  endowment  of  the  Dixie  Professorship  of 
Ecclesiastical  History  and  three  Dixie  Exhibitions  of  £30 
a  year.  The  heir  of  the  founder,  however,  still  nominates 
to  three  livings  (North  Benfleet,  Boddington,  Brantham), 
and  the  College  presents,  provided  that  the  person 
nominated  be  a  graduate  of  Emmanuel  who  is  either  akin 
to  Sir  W.  Dixie  or  has  been  educated  for  a  year  at 
Market  Bosworth  School. 

The  livings  thus  purchased  are ; 

Brantham  and  East  Bergholt     . . .  Suffolk. 

North  Benfleet  and  Little  Bentley  Essex. 

Lechdale  ...         ...         ...         ...  Gloucestershire. 

Winteringham     ...  ...  ...  Lincolnshire. 

Upper  Boddington  ...  ...  Northamptonshire. 

Blechingley         ...         ...         ...  Surrey. 

Two  other  pieces  of  patronage  were  bestowed  on  the 
College  at  various  times — the  appointment  of  the  Masters 
of  Harleston  and  Bungay  Schools.  The  former  was  given 
by  Archbishop  Sancroft  in  1688.     It  was  connected  with 


230  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

the  establishment  of  a  '  daily  office  of  Divine  service  in 
the  ancient  chapel  of  Harleston  in  Norfolk,  according  to 
the  Liturgy  of  the  Church  of  England  by  law  established.* 
He  assigned  to  the  Master  and  Fellows  of  Emmanuel 
College  a  perpetual  rent  of  .£54  from  the  hereditary 
revenue  of  Excise  which  had  been  granted  to  the  Arch- 
bishop by  one  Robert  Walsted,  of  London,  goldsmith,  in 
payment  of  a  debt  of  about  £900.  The  ancient  chapel 
had  long  been  disused,  and  had  no  endowment.  The 
mastership  of  the  grammar-school  is  still  attached  to  this 
chaplaincy,  and  is  now  held  by  Archdeacon  Perowne, 
appointed  June  6,  1874. 

One  of  the  earliest  possessions  of  the  College  was  a 
rent-charge  of  £10  and  the  patronage  of  the  free  school 
at  Bungay,  given  by  Thomas  Popeson,  MA.,  formerly 
Fellow  of  King's  College.  In  virtue  of  the  new  scheme 
sanctioned  by  the  Charity  Commissioners  the  school  is  now 
managed  by  a  governing  body,  which  appoints  the  Master. 
Emmanuel  College  nominates  one  member  of  this  body. 


APPENDIX  V 

THE  CHAPEL 

The  history  of  the  erection  and  fittings  of  the  chapel  has 
been  given  in  the  course  of  this  book.  It  should  be  added 
here  that  a  renovation  of  the  chapel  took  place  in  1883, 
which  has  considerably  altered  its  internal  appearance. 
In  1872  the  large  glass  chandelier  which  used  to  hang 
from  the  centre  of  the  ceiling  was  removed,  and  gas  was 
temporarily  introduced.  But  in  1883  the  walls  and  ceil- 
ings were  carefully  recoloured  and  decorated,  and  stained 
glass  put  in  the  windows.  The  whole  work  was  super- 
intended and  designed  by  Arthur  William  Blomfield,  and 
carried  out  by  Heaton  and  Butler.  At  the  same  time,  in 
order  to  protect  the  new  decorations,  electric  light  was 
introduced  under  the  superintendence  of  two  of  the 
Fellows,  who  happened  to  be  experts :  Mr.  W.  N.  Shaw 
(since  Secretary  to  the  Meteorological  Office)  and  Mr.  E. 
Hopkinson.  The  subjects  of  the  stained-glass  windows 
and  the  facts  commemorated  on  the  panels  were  selected 
mainly  by  Dr.  Hort,  whose  object  was  to  represent  the 
complete  story  of  the  Christian  Church,  and  of  the  develop- 
ment of  learning  from  the  third  century  to  the  early  days 
of  the  College.  The  breadth  and  liberality  of  view  disclosed 
by  this  design  will  be  seen  by  the  subjoined  description, 

231 


232  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

which  was  drawn  up  by  Dr.  Hort's  own  hand.  I  may  add 
that  since  that  time  the  walls  have  been  adorned  by  brass 
tablets  in  memory  of  Dr.  Hort,  Bishops  Browne  and 
Creighton,  John  Harvard,  and  of  Hugh  Chalford  Black- 
den,  who  died  in  South  Africa  during  the  war.  By  a 
special  clause  in  the  act  of  consecration,  the  right  was 
reserved  to  bury  in  the  chapel  and  cloister.  Accordingly, 
Chaderton's  body  was  removed  there,  and  some  of  the 
succeeding  Masters  were  also  buried  in  the  chapel  itself 
or  in  the  cloister.  But  the  tombs  were  all  marked  by  flat 
stones  on  the  floor ;  the  placing  of  brass  plates  on  the 
walls,  if  continued,  will  materially  alter  the  appearance  of 
the  oak  panelling. 

The  subjects  of  the  windows  of  the  chapel,  from  east  to 
west,  are,  first,  theologians  representative  of  the  Early  and 
Middle  Ages,  and  of  the  two  earliest  stages  of  the  English 
Reformation,  and  then  theologians  educated  at  Emmanuel 
College.  The  windows  on  the  north  side  commemorate 
services  rendered  chiefly  to  the  organization  of  institutions 
and  to  systematic  theology  ;  the  windows  on  the  south  side 
commemorate  services  rendered  chiefly  to  inward  life  and 
thought  and  to  speculative  theology. 

NOETH  SIDE. 
First  Window:  Early  and  Middle  Ages. 

AuGUSTiNUS,  holding  his  book  De  civitate  Dei.  Born  at 
Tagaste  about  S5^ ;  died  at  Hippo  in  430. 

Anselmus,  holding  his  books  Monologion  and  Proslogion. 
Born  at  Aosta  about  1033  ;  died  at  Canterbury  in  1109. 

Second  Window:  The  English  Reformation. 

John  Fisher,  holding  Christ's  College,  Cambridge.  Born 
at  Beverley  in  1459 ;  beheaded  on  Tower  Hill  in  1535. 


APPENDIX  V  233 

Thomas  Cranmer,  holding  the  first  English  Book  of 
Common  Prayer.  Born  in  Nottinghamshire  in  1489; 
burned  at  Oxford  in  1556. 

Third  Window:  Theologians  educated  at  Emmanuel 
College. 

Laurence  Chaderton,  holding  scroll,  '  Ut  verbum  Domini 
currat  et  glorificetur'  (2  Thess.  iii.  1).  Born  at  Oldham 
about  1536  ;  died  at  Cambridge  in  l640. 

John  Harvard,  holding  scroll,  '  Populus  qui  creabitur 
laudabit  Dominum'  (Ps.  cii.  18).  Born  in  Middlesex 
l607  ;  died  at  Charlestown,  Massachusetts,  in  1638. 

Fourth  Window:  Theologians  educated  at  Emmanuel 
College. 

William  Bedell,  holding  scroll,  ^;Edificare  deserta  saecu- 
lorum'  (Isa.  Iviii.  12).  Born  in  Essex  in  1571  ;  died  at 
Kilmore,  Ireland,  in  l642. 

William  Sancroft,  holding  scroll,  '  Memento  dierum  anti- 
quorum  '  (Ps.  cxliii.  5).  Born  at  Fressingfield  in  l6l6  ; 
died  at  Fressingfield  in  1693. 


SOUTH  SIDE. 
First  Window  :  Early  and  Middle  Ages. 

Origenes,  holding  his  book  Hipi  ap-xjav.  Bom  at  Alexan- 
dria about  185  ;  died  at  Tyre  about  254. 

Joannes  Scotus  Eriugena,  holding  his  book  llipi  (ftuaeuv. 

Born  in  Ireland  in  the  ninth  century ;  died  at  Malmesbury 
about  891. 


234  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

Second  Window  :  The  English  Reformation. 

John  Colet,  holding  St.  Paul's  School,  London.  Born  in 
London  about  1466 ;  died  in  London  in  1519. 

William  Tindale,  holding  the  first  printed  English  New 
Testament.  Born  in  Gloucestershire  about  1485 ; 
strangled  at  Vilvorde  in  1536. 

Third  Window:  Theologians  educated  at  Emmanuel 
College. 

Benjamin    Whichcote,   holding   scroll,   '  Lucerna   Domini 

spiritus  hominis'  (Prov.  xx.  27).     Born  in  Shropshire  in 

l6lO  ;  died  at  Cambridge  in  l683. 
Peter   Sterry,   holding   scroll,  '  Ut   sit   Deus   omnia   in 

omnibus'  (1  Cor.  xv.  28).     Born  in  Surrey  about  l6l4  ; 

died  in  1672. 

Fourth  Window  :  Theologians  educated  at  Emmanuel 
College. 

John  Smith,  holding  scroll,  '  Renovari  in  agnitionem 
secundum  imaginem  Creatoris'  (Col.  iii.  10).  Born  in 
Northamptonshire  in  l6l6;  died  at  Cambridge  in 
1652. 

William  Law,  holding  scroll,  'Credite  in  lucem  ut  filii 
lucis  sitis '  (John  xii.  36).  Born  at  Kingscliffe  in  l686  ; 
died  at  Kingscliffe  in  176l. 

The  panels  of  the  walls  of  the  chapel  are  inscribed 
according  to  an  arrangement  corresponding  with  the 
arrangement  of  the  windows.  The  north  and  south  sides 
are  united  by  texts  inscribed  in  the  panels  of  the  east 
wall. 


APPENDIX  V 


235 


EAST  WALL. 

North. 

South. 

VNVM 

SVRSVM 

CORDA 

VNVS 

CORPVS 

SPIRITVS 

IN    QVO    OMNIS 

IN    IPSO 

/VEDIFICATIO  CONPACTA 

VITA    ERAT 

CRESCIT    IN    TEMPLVM 

ET    VITA    ERAT 

SANCTVM    IN    DOMINO 

LVX    HOMINVM 

VOCABITVR   NOMEN    EIVS    EMMANVEL 
NOBISCVM    DEVS 

The  narrow  panels  flanking  the  east  wall  contain — 

North  :  The  pastoral  staff  resting  on  the  cross,  with  the 
olive  above. 

South  :  The  vine  twined  around  the  cross,  with  the 
pomegranate  above. 

The  panels  between  the  first  and  second  windows  repre- 
sent the  two  great  reforming  Orders  of  the  thirteenth 
century,  the  Dominicans  and  the  Franciscans,  on  the 
site  of  whose  houses  in  Cambridge  the  two  Elizabethan 
foundations  of  Emmanuel  and  Sidney  Sussex  College 
were  established.  The  last  name  on  each  panel  is 
that  of  a  precursor  of  the  Reformation  of  the  sixteenth 
century. 

The  panels  between  the  second  and  third  windows 
represent  the  revival  of  letters  and  the  sciences  re- 
lating to  man,  and  the  revival  of  the  sciences  relating 
to  nature. 

The  panels  between  the  third  and  fourth  windows 
commemorate  services  rendered  by  men  educated  at 
Emmanuel  College  to  the  sciences  relating  to  man,  and  to 
the  sciences  relating  to  nature. 


236  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

NORTH  SIDE. 
First  Panels:  Ordo  Fratrum  Pr^dicatorum. 

DoMiNicus  :  bom  in  Old  Castile  in  1170  ;  died  in  Bologna 

in  1221. 
Thomas   Aquinas  :   born  at  Aquino  about  1225  ;  died  at 

Terracina  in  1274. 
Albertus  Magnus  :  born  in  Suabia  in  1 193  ;  died  at  Cologne 

in  1280. 
HiERONYMUs  Savonarola  :  born  at  Ferrara  in  1452  ;  burned 

at  Florence  in  1498. 

Second  Panels:  Instauratio  Scientiarum  Naturalium. 

RilN^  Descartes  :  born  in  Touraine  in  1 596 ;  died  at 
Stockholm  in  l650. 

Francis  Bacon:  born  in  London  in  1560;  died  at  High- 
gate  in  1626. 

John  Ray  :  born  near  Braintree  in  l628  ;  died  near  Brain- 
tree  in  1704. 

Isaac  Newton:  bom  at  Woolsthorpe  in  l642  ;  died  in 
London  in  1727. 

Third  Panels:  Inquisitio  Naturalis  Collegii  Emmanuelis. 

Jeremiah   Horrox  :  born   at   Toxteth   in    I619  ;  died    at 

Toxteth  in  l640. 
John  Wallis  :  born  at  Ash  ford  in  I616  ;  died  at  Oxford 

in  1703. 
John  Martyn  :  born  in  London  in  l699 ;  died  at  Chelsea 

in  1768. 
Thomas    Young:    born    at   Milverton   in    1773;   died    in 

London  in  1829- 


APPENDIX  V  237 

SOUTH  SIDE. 

First  Panels  :  Ordo  Fratrum  Minorum. 

Franciscus  :  born  at  Assisi  in  1182  ;  died  at  Assisi  in  1226. 
Bona  VENTURA:  born  in  Tuscany  in  1221  ;  died  at  Lyons  in 

1274. 
Joannes  Duns  Scotus:  bom  about  1270;  died  at  Cologne 

in  1308. 
WiLLELMus  Ockham  :  bom  at  Ockham  in  1280  ;   died  at 

Munich  in  1332. 

Second  Panels  :  Instauratio  Scientiarum  Humanarum. 

Dante  Alighieri  :   born   at   Florence   in    1265  ;  died   at 

Ravenna  in  1321. 
Pico  Di  Mirandula;  born  at  Mirandula  in  1463  ;  died  at 

Florence  in  1494. 
Johann  Reuchlin  :   born  at  Pforzheim  in  1455;   died  at 

Liebenzell  in  1522. 
Desiderius  Erasmus  ;  born  at  Rotterdam  about  1465  ;  died 

at  Basel  in  1536. 

Third  Panels:  Inquisitio  Humana  Collegii  Emmanuelis. 

Roger  Twysden  :   born  in   1597  ;  died  at  East  Peckham 

in  1672. 
Edmund  Castle  :   bom  in  Cambridgeshire  in  l606  ;  died 

in  London  in  l685. 
Ralph  Cud  worth  :  bom  in  Somersetshire  in  l6l7  ;  died  at 

Cambridge  in  l688. 
William    Gell  :   born   in    Derbyshire   in    1777 ;   died    at 

Naples  in  1836. 


APPENDIX  VI 

EMMANUEL  MEN  WHO  HAVE  TAKEN  A  FIRST 
CLASS  IN  HONOURS  SINCE  THE  FIRST  ESTAB- 
LISHMENT OF  A  TRIPOS,  OR  GAINED  UNIVER- 
SITY SCHOLARSHIPS  OR  PRIZES 

The  following  lists  give  a  measure  of  the  success  of  the 
College  in  the  University.  They  are  not  as  interesting  or 
important  as  a  statement  of  the  after-career  of  men 
educated  at  the  College  would  be,  but  they  have  a  certain 
value.  It  is  somewhat  remarkable  that,  though  the 
College  had  a  fair  share  of  success  in  the  Mathematical 
Tripos  from  the  first,  it  seemed  slow  in  taking  up  with 
any  effect  the  newer  Tripos  in  Classics.  There  were  no 
first  class  men  for  twenty  years  (1825-1845).  Nor  does  the 
Classical  degree  seem  to  have  been  much  taken  into 
account  for  election  to  a  Fellowship,  not  one  of  the  six 
from  1846  to  1858  having  been  elected.  There  may,  of 
course,  have  been  other  reasons  for  this,  either  personal  to 
the  men  or  their  county.  It  was  not  because  the  College 
undervalued  Classics  at  the  time.  They  took  pains  to  get 
good  Lecturers  on  the  subject,  the  late  Richard  Shilleto 
having  for  some  time  acted  in  that  capacity,  and  in  1850 
and  1857  elections  were  made  from  other  Colleges,  with  the 
view  of  strengthening  that  side  of  the  teaching.  In  recent 
years  it  will  be  seen  that  a  much  greater  success  has  been 

238 


APPENDIX  VI 


239 


obtained  in  this  Tripos,  partly,  no  doubt,  owing  to 
increased  numbers,  but  also  greatly  to  the  energy  and 
ability  of  the  Tutors  and  Lecturers.  In  the  more  modern 
Triposes  the  greatest  success  has  been  in  the  Natural 
Sciences.  In  the  Semitic  Languages  Tripos  and  the 
Mediaeval  and  Modern  Languages  Tripos  no  first  has  been 
obtained. 


Wranglers 

1     IN     THE    MaTHEMAT] 

1747). 

1748. 

Gordon. 

Pemberton. 

1749. 

Richardson. 

Stona, 

1755. 
1756. 

Hingeston. 
Gilbert. 

1758. 

Bristed. 

1759. 

OUver. 

1760. 

Backall. 

1762. 

Turner. 

1764. 

Francklin. 

1770. 

Oldershaw. 

1771. 

Bat  em  an. 

1774. 
1776. 

Elleray. 
Oldershaw  (senior). 

1777. 

Sutton. 

1778. 

Taylor. 
Franklin. 

1780. 
1782. 
1783. 

Cory. 

Hardy. 

Wade. 

1791. 

Dunn. 

1792. 
1794. 

Allsopp. 
Pemberton. 

1798. 

Lamb. 

1804. 

Slade. 

1815. 
1817. 

Burroughs. 
Cantis. 

1818. 

Pope. 

1820.     Shelford. 

1 823.  Foley. 

1824.  Warden. 

1828.  Tuck. 

1 829.  Birkett. 

1830.  Whall. 
Buston. 

1832.  Browne. 
Lloyd. 

1833.  Cartmell. 

1838.  Woolley. 

1839.  Williams. 

1842.  Castlehow. 
Carter. 

1843.  Pix. 

1 844.  Nicholson. 

1845.  Power. 
Dennis. 

1847.  Treacy. 
Gurney. 

1848.  Horley. 

1849.  Cornwell. 

1850.  Sale. 
Munn. 

1851.  Chalker. 
Matthew. 
West. 

1852.  Phear. 

1853.  Batty. 


240 


EMMANUFX  COLLEGE 


1854. 

Glover. 

Candy. 

Sturges. 

Almond. 

Rawlinson. 

1855. 

Reynolds. 
Jones. 

1856. 

Dyson. 
Street. 

Edridge. 
Glen. 

1857. 

Porcher. 

1858. 

Hewitt. 

1859. 

Jones. 

I860. 

Lee. 

Blissard. 

MacCarthy. 
Walsh. 

1861. 

Thurlbourn. 

Griffith. 

1862. 

Armitage. 
Chapman. 
Bowker. 

1863. 

Rose. 

Besant. 

1865. 

Pitts. 

1866. 

Davies. 

1867. 

Watherston. 

Gaskin. 

Clarke. 

Prior. 

Bevan. 

1868. 

Meaden. 

1869. 

Day. 

Godfray. 

Blenkiron. 

Firth. 

1871. 

Kaye. 
Reith. 

1872. 

Langley. 
Stebbing. 

1873.  Irons. 
Hodgins. 

1874.  Craik. 
Stuart. 
Allcock. 

1876.  Bishop. 
Shaw. 

1877.  Sharratt. 
Lyon. 
Fuller. 

1878.  Allcock. 

1880.  Allcock. 
Mackenzie. 
Noaks. 

1881.  Hopkinson. 
Davison. 

p     . '  I  Pattisson. 

1883,  f  ^^^7^- 
p^  ^'-l  Creak. 

[  French. 

Chapman. 

Barnard. 
King. 

Barnard. 

Rosenberg. 

Peace. 
Osbom. 
Cole. 
Morgan. 

Oldland. 
Crook. 

Denmead. 
Hyett. 


1884,\ 
Pt.  i.  / 
1885,\ 
Pt.  i.  j 
1886,\ 
Pt.  ii./ 
1886,\ 
Pt.  i.  / 
1887,^ 
Pt.  i.  / 
1888,\ 
Pt.  i.  / 

1889,\ 
Pt.  i.  / 

1890,\ 
Pt.  i.  / 

1891,\ 
Pt.  i.  / 


APPENDIX  VI 


Ml 


Ft.  i.  / 

1894,] 
Pt.  i.  1 

1895,\ 
Ptii./ 


1896,\ 
Pt.iJ 

1897/ 
Pt. 


Craig. 

Estcourt. 

Carslaw. 

Green. 

Yewdall. 

Carslaw. 

Messer. 
Byron. 
Wagstaff. 
Slater. 


1898, 
Pt. 


Lane. 


99  A 
.  i./ 


1899, 
Pt 


Bishop. 
Goodwin. 


1901 
Pt 


man. 


p^  ./|  Knapman, 


1902,\ 
Pt.  i.  / 


Wood. 
Clarke 


Classical  Tripos  (established  1824). 


1825. 
1846. 
1851. 
1852. 
1853. 
1858. 
1866. 

1869. 
1871. 


1874. 
1876. 

1877. 
1879. 
1882,\ 
Pt.  i.  / 

1885,\ 
Pt.  i.  / 

1887,\ 
Pt.  i.  j 

1889,\ 
Pt.  i.  / 


Wimberley. 

Romanis. 

Phillips. 

Wimberley. 

Johnson. 

Barton. 

Shuckburgh. 

Wood. 

Rodwell. 

Chawner. 

Adams. 

Manby. 

Streane. 

Flather. 

Wilson. 

Higgens. 

Luckham. 

Crawford. 


Asplen. 

Swift. 

Crawley. 
Middleton 


1890,\ 
Pt.ii./ 
1890. 

1891. 

1892. 

1893,\ 

Pt.ii./ 

1893,\ 

Pt.  i.  / 

1894,\ 

Pt.ii./ 


1894, 
Pt.i. 


1895,\ 
Pt.  i.  j 
1896,\ 
Pt.  i.  / 
1896,\ 
Ptii.  J 

1897,/ 
Pt.  i.  1 


Crawley. 

Middleton. 

Arnold. 

Kelsey. 

Crouch. 

Bryant. 

Bryant. 
Pike. 

Welford 

Cabell. 
Clayton. 
Fuller. 
Sworder. 

Barstow. 
Jones. 

Barstow. 

Briggs. 
Bruce. 
Edmonds. 

16 


242 


EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 


j.«9y  Edmonds. 

1898,\Davies. 
Pt.  i.  /  Howell. 

1901, 
Pt.  i. 

'  Hopkins. 
Buckley. 
Dawkins. 
Hooper. 

i«QQ  f  Marshall. 
IV^^'}  West-Watson. 
^^'  '•  [  Thomas. 

J,ffj;}  Dawkins. 

J,fg  Marshall. 
;,9^00,|Keeton. 

1902, 
Pt.  i. 

Darbyshire. 
Dobson. 
Hind. 
Rawlinson. 

Moral  Sciences  Tripos  (established  1851). 
1867.     Cary  (senior). 


Natural  Sciences  Tripos 


1855. 

1857. 

1858. 

1876. 

1877. 

1881. 

1882,  i 

Pt.  1.  / 

1884,\ 

Pt.  i.  / 
J85,\ 
t.  i./ 
586,^ 
t.  i.  / 

1887,\ 
Pt.  ii./ 
1888,\ 
Pt.  i.  ) 


1885, 
Pt. 
1886, 
Pt. 


1891,1 

Pt.  i.  / 

1892, 
Pt. 


'3 


Candy. 

Preston. 

Nottidge. 

Shaw. 

Ohm. 

Robb. 

Carter. 
Dickinson. 
Couldridge. 
Carr. 

Couldridge. 

Perkins. 
Wilkinson 
Eichholz. 
Taylor. 

Eichholz. 


(established  1851). 

1893, 
Pt 


3  ^ 

./ j  Cooper. 

f;}Eve. 

1894,\ 
Pt.ii./ 


1893, 
Pt 


Eve. 


1894,\  King. 
Pt.  i.  /  Porter. 

Green. 


1895,\ 
Pt.  ii./ 

1895,\ 
Pt.  i.  / 

IS96A 
Pt.  ii.  / 


Biffen. 
Gabriel. 

Biffen. 


I  Crofts. 
Ermen. 
Lempfert 
Parker. 


APPENDIX  VI 


243 


1897 
Pt 


Hall. 
Rennie. 


97, 1 
PMi!}  Lempfert. 


1900 
Pt 


1898, 
Pt.  i. 

1899, 
Pt.  i. 


Clarke. 

Kerslake. 

WagstafF. 

Mellanby. 

Stuart. 

Tuck. 


^M  Mellanby 

1900,\ 
Pt.i.; 


Goodwin. 
Heaton. 


1902, 
Pt.i 


Butler. 
Hodge. 
Pieton. 
Rothera. 
^  Smith. 


Theological  Tripos  (established  1874). 


1875.     Streane. 

1884,1  r, 

p^  .;|Hervey. 

{,^^^?|'}Waddingt 
-a  Swift. 


Crook. 


189l,\ 
Pt.  i.  j 

j,f*'}  Sedgwick 
J,f?'}Sopwith. 

9 


1901, 
Pt 


West-Watson. 


Civil  Law  Classes  (from   1815). 

1816.      Fitzthomas.  1850.     Moxon. 

1824.     Long.  1853.     Bedford, 

1847.     Wild.  1855.     King. 

Green. 


Law  Tripos  (established  1858) 

1866.  Wood.  1901,\ 

1867.  Couch.  Pt.  i.  / 
1869.  Staffurth.  1902, 
1 883.  Pattisson.  Pt, 


►02,j 
:.ii./ 


Sutton. 


Sutton. 


Historical  Tripos  (established  1875). 

1896.     Head.  1902,)    . 

1902,\„     ..  p,  i  I  Appasamy. 

Pt.  ii!|  Hopkins. 

16—2 


244  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

Indian  Languages  Tripos  (established  1879). 
1889.     Chapman. 

Mechanical  Sciences  Tripos  (established  1894). 

pff;}"-"-       '  J.t'ii:}Head. 

The  highest  honour  in  Classics  is  the  Chancellor's 
Medal,  first  given  in  1752.  This  has  as  yet  only  been 
brought  to  Emmanuel  twice:  by  R.  K.  Rod  well  in  1869, 
and  F.  H.  Marshall  in  1901.  The  highest  Mathematical 
honour  is  the  Smith's  Prize,  established  in  1769.  This 
has  been  won  by  the  two  Oldershaws  in  1770  and  1776, 
and  by  W.  Taylor  1778,  R.  B.  Batty  1853,  G.  H.  Stuart 
1874.  University  Scholarships  have  only  been  won  by 
J.  B.  Scale  (Craven)  1770,  F.  H.  Marshall  (Davies)  1900,  and 
C.  Ransford  (Bell)  1902.  The  Tyrwhit  Hebrew  Scholarship 
has  come  more  frequently  into  the  College :  it  has  been 
gained  by  R.  Buston  1832,  E.  H.  Browne  (Bishop  of  Ely 
and  Winchester)  1834,  P.  Carlyon  1836,  W.  H.  Roberts 
1839,  H.  G.  Williams  1840,  C.  Chambers  1842,  O.  Glover 
1856,  A.  T.  Chapman  1865,  W.  E.  Waddington  1890. 
The  Whewell  Scholarship  for  International  Law  (estab- 
lished I860)  has  been  won  by  J.  G.  Wood  1868  (who  also 
won  the  Chancellor's  Medal  for  Law  in  1868),  F.  W.  Head 
1 897  ;  the  Lightfoot  for  Ecclesiastical  History  (estab- 
lished 1874)  by  J.  H.  Flather  1877,  F.  W.  Head  1897; 
the  Craven  Studentship  for  Research  by  R.  McG.  Dawkins 
1 902 ;  the  Prendergast  Greek  Studentship  by  C.  D. 
Edwards  1898  ;  the  Steward  of  Rannoch  Scholarship 
by  G.  A.  Thomas  1898.  The  Crosse  Scholarship  for 
Divinity  has  been  won  by  E.  H.  Browne  1833,  O.  Glover 
1854,   R.    C.    W.    Raban    1863,    C.   West -Watson    1901. 


APPENDIX  VI  245 

The  Carus  Greek  Testament  Prize  has  been  won  by 
R.  C.  W.  Raban  I860,  A.  W.  Streane  1874  (who  also 
gained  the  Evans  Theological  Prize  in  1875),  J.  K.  Sopwith 
1895,  R.  Talbot  1899.  The  Winchester  Reading  Prize 
was  won  twice  by  C.  R.  W.  Cooke  in  1865  and  1866; 
the  Bumey  Essay  by  W.  Blissard  186l,  R.  W.  Cooke 
1865  and  1866;  the  Hulsean  Essay  by  J.  Weller  1817, 
O.  W.  Wallace  1856,  E.  G.  Wood  1866,  W.  Chawner 
1872  ;  the  Le  Bas  Essay  by  B.  A.  Irving  1851  and  1852, 
R.  W.  Cooke  1864;  the  Thirlwall  by  E.  E.  Bryant  1895; 
the  Norrisian  by  J.  Woolly  1843  and  1844,  B.  A  Irving 
1851;  the  Porson  by  G.  J.  Gill  1846  and  1847;  the 
Prince  Consort  Prize  by  F.  W.  Head  1900  ;  the  Seatonian 
by  C.  Philpott  1790  and  1791,  T.  S.  Hughes  1817,  P.  J. 
Loseby  1901  ;  the  Browne  Medal  by  J.  Walker  for  Greek 
Ode  1778  ;  the  Members'  Latin  Essay  by  E.  V.  Blomfield 
1812,  and  English  Essay  by  W.  J.  Pike  1893;  the 
Maitland  Prize  by  E.  F.  Fiske  1849;  the  Scholefield  Prize 
by  R.  C.  Raban  1862. 


This  record  of  College  honours  may  fitly  be  closed  by 
a  somewhat  more  detailed  account  of  one  whose  name  is  a 
perpetual  honour  to  the  place  of  his  education.  Jeremiah 
Horrocks  or  Horrox  (I6l9-l641)  entered  the  College  in 
1633,  when  fourteen  years  old,  and  remained  three  years. 
He  then  returned  to  the  house  of  his  father — a  small  farmer 
at  Toxteth,  near  Liverpool.  At  College  he  had  conceived 
a  passion  for  astronomy,  from  the  study  of  the  works  of 
Tycho  Brahe  and  Kepler.  On  his  return  home  he  had  to 
struggle  with  poverty  and  want  of  sympathy,  but  in  l636 
he  made  the  acquaintance  of  William  Crabtree,  who  was 
an   astronomer   and    considerable   mathematician.      This 


246  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

friendship  was  his  great  support.  In  l638,  when  only 
twenty,  he  was  ordained  to  the  curacy  of  Much  Hoole, 
near  Southport,  and  there,  on  November  24,  l639,  by 
means  of  a  telescope  constructed  by  himself  to  examine 
the  eclipse  of  the  sun  May  22  of  the  same  year,  he 
observed  the  transit  of  Venus.  His  own  account  of  it  is 
touching.  It  unfortunately  happened  on  Sunday  about 
three  o'clock;  his  afternoon  service  only  ended  at  that 
time,  and  the  sun  set  at  3.50. 

'  About  fifteen  minutes  past  three,'  he  writes,  '  when  I 
was  again  at  liberty  to  continue  my  labours,  the  clouds,  as 
if  by  Divine  interposition,  were  entirely  dispersed,  and  I 
was  once  more  invited  to  the  grateful  task  of  repeating 
my  observations,  when,  lo,  I  beheld  a  most  gratifying 
spectacle,  the  realization  of  so  many  ardent  desires — a 
new  spot  of  unusual  magnitude  and  of  perfect  circular 
shape,  which  had  already  fully  entered  upon  the  sun's  disc 
on  the  left,  so  that  the  limits  of  the  sun  and  Venus 
precisely  coincided,  forming  an  angle  of  contact.  I 
immediately  lost  all  doubt  that  this  was  the  shadow  of 
Venus,  and  applied  myself  to  the  careful  observation 
of  it.' 

Thus,  as  he  expressed  it  himself,  'the  tediousness  of  study 
was  overcome  by  industry,' and  one  whom  Newton  described 
as  '  a  genius  of  the  very  first  rank,'  and  to  whom  he  acknow- 
ledged his  obligations,  though  he  died  in  his  twenty-third 
year,  left  an  almost  unparalleled  list  of  independent  dis- 
coveries and  investigations  behind  him.  The  church  of 
Much  Hoole — where  he  laboured  for  only  a  year — was  in 
1859  restored  and  enlarged  in  his  honour,  and  in  1874, 
under  the  care  of  Dean  Stanley,  a  tablet  was  placed  in 
Westminster  Abbey,  the  inscription  on  which  will  give 
briefly  the  achievements  of  his  short  life  : 


APPENDIX  VI  J^47 

'AD  MAJORA  AVOCATUS, 
QUiE  OB  HJEC  PARERGA  NEGLIGI  NON  DECUIT.' 

IN    MEMORY    OF 

JEREMIAH  HORROCKS, 

CURATE    OF    HOOLE,    IN    LANCASHIRE, 

WHO  DIED  ON  THE  JRD  OF  JANUARY,  164I,  IN  OR  NEAR  HIS  22ND  YEAR, 

HAVING    IN    SO    SHORT    A    LIFE 

DETECTED    THE    LONG    INEQUALITY    IN    THE    MEAN    MOTION    OF 

JUPITER  AND  SATURN; 

DISCOVERED    THE    ORBIT    OF    THE    MOON  TO    BE    AN    ELLIPSE  ; 

DETERMINED    THE    MOTION    OF    THE    LUNAR    APSE  ; 

SUGGESTED    THE    PHYSICAL    CAUSE    OF    ITS    REVOLUTION  ; 

AND  PREDICTED  FROM  HIS  OWN  OBSERVATION  THE  TRANSIT  OF  VENUS, 

WHICH  WAS  SEEN  BY  HIMSELF  AND  HIS  FRIEND  WILLIAM  CRABTREE 

ON    SUNDAY    THE    24TH    OF    NOVEMBER    (o.S.),    163Q  ; 

THIS    TABLET    FACING    THE    MONUMENT    OF    NEWTON 

WAS  RAISED  AFTER  THE  LAPSE  OF  MORE  THAN  TWO  CENTURIES, 

DECEMBER    QTH,     1 874.' 


APPENDIX  VII 

ATHLETICS 

On  the  athletic  side  the  following  lists  will  show  what  the 
College  has  done.  The  Boat  Club  was  founded  in  1 843, 
the  Cricket  Club  in  1834,  and  after  two  years'  suspension 
(1839,  1840)  was  refounded  in  1841. 

Emmanuel  Men  in  the  University  Boat  rowing  against 
Oxford. 

1854.  Spencer  Nairn. 

1857.  Anthony  Benn. 

1863.  Richard  Herbert  Morgan. 

1868.  James  George  Wood. 

1869.  John  Arthur  Rushton. 
1879.  Tom  Routledge. 
1888^ 

1889 1  James  Cardwell  Gardner. 
1890  J 

SQfi  I    ^*  ^  Duncanson. 
1 898.     S.  V.  Pearson. 
N.  B.  Rennie. 
1901.     E.  F.  Duncanson. 
248 


APPENDIX  VII  249 

Emmanuel  Men  in  the  University  Eleven  playing 
AGAINST  Oxford. 

^^^^1    ^  ^   ^    1  lli^\   E.  M.  Reynolds. 

1838  V   C.  G.  Taylor.  1854/  ^ 

1839 J  1855.     J.  Bury. 

1842" 

1843]-  T.  L.  French.  i856l   O.  Hammond. 


1844 

1844.     W.  Sykes.  is59.     F.  Nunn. 


1846^ 
1847 
1848 
1849 


1876.     V.  K.  Shaw. 
R.  T.  King.  1877.     H.  Pigg. 


1850  f  ^'  ^'  J^^y^s-  1891.     G.  I.  V.  Weigall. 


1850/ 
18511 
1852  J 
1852.     E.  A.  Fuller 


J.  S.  Weston.  igoi  L  t.  Daniel. 


Football  (Rugby)  against  Oxford. 
nil)   R.  M.  Pattison. 

18821 

1883  V   C.  H.  Sample. 

I884J 

1889\ 


J.  Daniell. 
F.  H.  Jones. 


1890/ 
1898\ 
1899/ 
1899.     G.  H.  Keeton. 

F.  V.  Bedell-Sievwright. 


Athletics  against  Oxford. 

Jgggj   L.  Tiffany  (hurdles). 

1881.     J.  A.  Scott  (weight). 

1883.     J.  A.  Scott  (weight  and  hammer). 


250  EMMANUEL  COLLEGE 

Presidents  of  the  Union. 

1826.  C.  Lillingston. 

1844.  E.  F.  Friske. 

1852.  H.  Leach. 

1865.  E.  S.  Shuckburgh. 

1899.  J.  R.  P.  Sclater. 


INDEX 


Act  of  Divinity,  39 
Acts  of  Parliament : 

Bartholomew,  71,  100,  102 

Catholic  Relief,  174 

Six  Articles,  3 

Uniformity,  69,  70,  81 
Adams,  Samuel,  142 
Adcock,  John,  145 
Advanced  students,  181 
Akin,  Mr.,  145 
Alfounder,  R.,  114,  115 
Algebra  Lectureship,  149 
AUer,  rectory  of,  82,  119,  192,  228 
All  Hallows',  Broad  Street,  69,  70 
Allix,  Peter,  226 
Almond,  John,  Fellow,  90,  95 
Alva,  17 
American  Minister,  162, 163 

War,  159 
Amiconi,  Giacomo,  12 
Anacreon,  edition  of,  124 
Anderson,  W.  P.,  173 
Antinomians,  70 
An  Apology  for  Smectymnuus,  by  Milton, 

43,  44,  69,  146 
Apethorpe,  11, 116 
Archdall-Gratwicke,    Dr.,    Master,    175, 

176,  179 
Aristophanes,  editio  prlnceps  of,  165 
Aristotle,  31 
Arminian  doctrine,  40 
Arrowsmith,  of  St.  John's,  82 
Ash  benefaction,  148,  198 

exhibitions,  177 
Ash,  Francis,  192 
Ashby-de-la-Zouch,  39,  177, 180 
Ashby,  Nicholas,  11 
Ashworth,  an  Oxford  doctor,  66 
Askew,  Dr.  Adam  or  Anthony,  193,  226 
Atwood,  John,  Fellow,  192 


Augmentations,  Court  of,  21 
Austin,  Cornelius,  12 

Bacon,  Sir  Edmund,  161 

Bainbrigg,  Dr.,  of  Christ's,  78,  95 

Balderston,  John,  117-125,  127,  128 

Ball,  on  Preston,  55,  58 

Bancroft,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  29 

Banwell  All  Saints,  103 

Barbadoes,  142 

Barlow,  Mr.,  135 

Barnes,  John,  182 

Joshua,  117,  124,  125,  225 
Barnwell  Gate,  1 

Carriage  by  water  to,  11 

Dock,  116 

House  in,  34 
Baro,  Peter,  Lady  Margaret  Professor,  30, 

50 
Barwell,  50 
Batchcroft,  Dr.,  70 
Bath,  Earl  of,  192 

Rachel,  Countess  of,  192 
Bath  and  Wells,  Bishop  of,  102 
Beal,  William,  88,  89 
Bedell,  William,  40-44,  54,  66,  198,  233 
Bedford,  39 
Benefactors,  202-222 
Bennet,  WiUiam,  9,  133,  141,   145,   148, 

149,  151,  153,  166,  226 
Bentley,  Dr.,  106,  125 
Bentley,  Little,  229 
Bets,  156-159 
Birdbolt  Tavern,  103 
Birkett,  R.,  198 
Birmingham  School,  138 
Bishop's  Bourn,  127 
Bishop  Stortford  School,  143,  150 
Blackfriars,  Rector  of,  128 
Blaxton,  William,  M.A.,  56 


251 


252 


INDEX 


Blechingley  living,  of,  229 
Blomfield,  C.  J.,  171 

B.  v.,  171 
Boddington,  Upper,  229 
Boston,  45,  76,  96 
Boyle,  106 
Bradshaw,  John,  224 

William,  48,  51 
Bramford,  Thomas,  100 
Brantham,  living  of,  229 
Branthwaite,  Fellow,  39,  44,  65,  189,  225 
Breton,  Dr.  John,  Master,  11,  12,  67,  85, 

113-116,  193,  225 
Brewood  School,  143 
Brick  Building  (see  Old  Court),  9 
Bright,  William,  Fellow,  39,  102 
Broadstreet,  Simon,  M.A.,  57 
Brown,  Edmund,  57 

Matthew,  114 
Browne,  E.  H.,  163,  175,  224,  244,  245 

John,  Fellow,  118,  119,  192 
Brownrigg,  Ralph,  Bishop  of  Exeter,  69, 

93,  95,  99 
Buck,  139 

Buckden,  Prebend  of,  88 
Buckingham,  Duke  of,  53,  55,  61,  75 
Bunch,  R.  J.,  172,  198 
Bimgay  building,  15,  174 

School,  230 
Burroughs,  Sir  James,  14,  135,  136 
Bury  St.  Edmunds,  42,  54,   66,  73,  79, 

142,  151 
Buttery,  147,  149 

Caddell,  Hon.  Walter,  142 

Caius  College,  Cambridge,  4,  89,  68,  70, 

127,  171 
Calamy,  Edmund,  145 
Calvinism,  27,  29,  51,  53,  79 
Cambridge  Castle,  7 
Cambridge  Chronicle,  161 
Cambridge  Committee  for  Revising  Eng- 
lish Version  of  Bible,  88 
Cambridge,  member  for,  85 

Press,  49 

water-supply,  177 
Cambridge,  New  England,  48 
Canning,  Richard,  150,  151,  193 
Canterbury,' Archbishop  of,  10,  29,  98, 169 

Canon  of,  153 

preacher  at,  3 

Prebendary  of,  127 
Carter,  Fellow,  100 
Cartwright,  Thomas,  21,  22,  49 
Cary,  Sir  Francis,  190 
Castell,  Edmund,  86,  192,  237 


Castlehow,  W.,  199 
Catechism,  96 
Caxton, 160 

Chaderton,    Edmund,    father    of    Lau- 
rence, 27 
Chaderton,  Laurence,  4,  12,  16,  24-26,  29, 
30,  33,  35-37,  210,  233 
mastership  of,  27-57,  73, 101,  184 
Chadwick,  Charles,  4,  82,  38,  62,  104 
Chamberlain,  Francis,  4 
Chancellor's  Medal,  171,  244 
Chandler,  E.,  126 
Chantrey,  166 

Chapel,  the,  10-12,  112-116,  231-287 
Chapman,  A.  T.,  244 
Charles,  Prince,  afterwards  Charles  I.,  87, 

58,  61,  65,  69,  70,  88,  92,  108 
Charles  II.,   King  of  England,   69,  92, 

102,  106,  109,  111,  112, 119 
Charlestown,  72,  73 
Charterhouse  School,  143 
Chase,  Sir  Richard,  150,  161 
Chatham,  49 
Chatterton,  Mrs.,  154 
Chawner,  Mr.  W.  Master,  162,  184 
Cheetham  Society,  84 

Chelmsford,  18,  46 

Chelsea,  49 

Chester,  bishopric  of,  55 

Chichester,  Sir  Arthur,  67 
Bishop  of,  3 

Christ's  College,  Cambridge,  4,  18,  19,  21, 
23,  26,  27,  44,  51,  54,  55,  78,  81,  82,  95, 
101,  115,  166 

Christ's  Hospital,  London,  18, 124 

Civil  War,  52,  87 

aare  HaU,  4,  82,  97 

Clark,  Bartholomew,  of  King's  College,  22 

Clerke,  Mr.,  Fellow,  76,  78 

Clitheroe  School,  148 

Cloyne,  Bishop  of,  166  (see  Bennet) 

Cock,  John,  32,  88,  39 

Cockayne,  Hon.  Mr,,  161 

Cockerel,  47 

Colbeck,  172 

College  library,  188,  187-201 

College  of  Physicians,  71 

CoUis,  Provost  of  King's,  81,  95 

Commission  for  Visitation  of  Universitiea, 
97 

Commonwealth,  106 

Cook,  John,  is  admonished,  33 

Cooper's  Annals,  18,  19,  22,  44,  92,  96 

Corbet,  author  of  poem  on  James  L's 
visit  to  Cambridge,  87 

Cork,  Bishop  of,  166 


INDEX 


253 


Comwallis,  Sir  Charles,  41 
Corpus  Christ!  College,  20 
Cory,  Robert  Towerson,  Master,  134, 163, 

165,  169,  iro,  172,  174,  175,  198 
Cosiu,  Master  of  Peterhouse,  90,  91 
Cotton,  John,  B.D.  Fellow,  45,  46,  56,  06 

Sir  John  Hind,  145,  161 
Court  of  High  Commission,  46,  48 
Coventry,  Sir  Thomas,  61 
Cowel,  John,  LL.D.,  62 
Cradock,  Mr.,  104 
Cranmer,  Archbishop,  201,  233 
Creighton,  Mandell,  173,  224 
Cromwell,  Oliver,  70,  72,  79,  80,  85,  92,  95, 
224 

Richard,  72 
Croone,  John,  F.R.S.,  Fellow,  192 
Crosse,  William,  F.R.S.,  Fellow,  100 
Cudworth,  Ralph,  81-83,  90,  97,  237 
Culverwell,  Cecilia,  marries  Chaderton,  28 

Nathaniel,  83,  84,  101 

Nicholas,  28 

Richard,  4,  210 

Darling,  Sir  R.,  47 

Davenport,  John,  Fellow,  100 

Davies,  125 

Dawes,  Richard,  Dixie  Fellow,  125,  126, 

143 
Deane,  Henry,  34 
Dedham,  47,  142 
Degree  money,  149 
DeU,  WilUdm,  68,  70 
Dennis,  P.  G.,  199 
Derby,  143,  177,  180 
Despontine,  Dr.,  66 
De  Vere,  Alice,  widow  of  Robert,  fifth 

Earl  of  Oxford,  2 
Devie,  W.,  135,  136 
Dexter,  Professor  Franklyn  B. ,  56 
Dickson,  172 

Dictionary  of  National  Biography,  22, 59, 85 
Dillingham,  William,  Master,  28,  29,  37, 

53-56,  83,  85,  101, 102,  109,  113,  117,  148. 

188-191 
Dissolution  of  religious  houses,  2 
Dixie,  Sir  Wolstan,  224,  229 
Estate,  173 
Fellowship,  46,  125 
Professorship,  173,  181 
livings,  229 
Dobson,  Mr.,  154 
Dodds,  Gregory,    B.D.,  last  Dominican 

Prior,  2 
Dod,  John,  Fellow,  59,  60,  m 
Dominicans,  1,  2,  235 


Dort,  Synod  of,  42-44 
Douay,  English  College  at,  20 
D'Oyly,  99,  109 
Downing  College,  166,  185 
Drayton,  parish  of,  68 
Dromore,  Bishop  of,  170 
Dugdale's  Monasticon,  198 
Duke,  John,  4 
Dunch,  Walter,  182,  186 
Durham,  Bishop  of,  47 

Dean  of,  117 

Prebendary  of,  109 
Durham  School,  180 
Dyer,  George,  169 

Earls  Coln,  Essex,  47 

East  Bergholt,  Suffolk,  88,  175,  229 

Edward  VI.,  21,  201 

Egyptian  inscriptions,  165 

Elizabeth,  Queen  of  England,  3,  4, 17,  19, 
22,  27,  203,  209,  217 

EUerby,  146 

Elrington,  Edward,  3 

Ely,  Bishop  of,  112,  175 

Ely  House,  93 

Emigrants  to  New  England,  45-48,  56,  57 

Emmanuel  House,  15 

Street,  2,  6,  14,  15,  185 

Engagement,  the,  69,  97-100,  102 

Erasmus,  201 

Esther,  Book  of,  124 

Essex,  James,  14,  136 

Eton  College;  133,  142 

Euripides,  124,  125,  169 

Evanson,  Edward,  142,  145 

Evelyn,  John,  155 
}  Exeter,  Dean  of,  3 
j  Bishop  of,  42 

Fairfax,  Lord,  70 

Farcet,  Manor  of,  18,  136 

Farmer,  Dr.  Richard,  Master,  134,  189, 

140,  152-155,  159-164,  166,  198,  224 
Farnborough,  Lord,  169 
Fellow -commoners,  4,  12,  167 
Felstead  School,  143 
Fenn's  pamphlet,  92 
Ferguson,  150 
Finch,  Lord,  of  Fordwich,  Lord  Keeper, 

52,  225 
Finshaw,  Mr.,  of  Gray's  Inn,  68 
Fire  of  London,  10,  81,  85,  113,  182 
Firmin,  Giles,  57 
Fletcher,  Dr.,  123 
Foster,  Walter,  Fellow,  60,  76,  104 
Founder's  Chamber,  6 


254 


INDEX 


Founder's     Range    (see     Westmorland 
Building),  6,  9,  12,  13,  128,  135,  187 

Powle,  Nathaniel,  Fellow,  59,  60 

Frankfort,  39 

Frederic,  Count  Palatine  (the  '  Winter 
King '),  37 

Free  Church,  46 

Fressingfield,  Suffolk,  108,  192,  228 

Preston,  Rector  of,  150 

Fuller,  Thomas,  30,  39,  42,  51,  184 
Robert,  Fellow,  129 

Gainsborough,  150,  225,  226 
Gallery,  pictures  in  the,  225 
Gamons,  John,  FeUow,  59,  60 
Garden,  the  Fellows',  7,  8,  16,  174 
Garnham,  Mr.,  151 
Gayland,  John,  Fellow,  143 
GeU,  Sir  William,  165,  109,  237 
Geneva,  39,  49 
George  I.,  King  of  England,  123 

III.,  148 
Germany,  165 
Gibbon,  Edward,  123 

Miss,  124 
Gilbie,  Anthony,  father  of  Nathaniel,  39 

Nathaniel,  38,  39 
Gillingham  Fellowship,  132,  170,  178 
Glover,  Octavius,  199 
Qoade,  Dr.,  Vice-Chancellor,  62 
Godwin,  133 
Good,  50 
Gransden,  146 
Gray's  Inn,  71 

Great  Hampden,  rectory  of,  69 
Great  St.  Mary's  Church,  14,  18,  21,  45 
Great  Yarmouth,  85 
Greece,  165 

Greek  Lectures,  18,  31,  51,  117 
Green,  150 
GreenhUl,  173 
Gresham  College,  88,  95 
Gresley,  John,  Fellow,  192 
Grey,  John,  Fellow,  39 

Lord,  92 
Griffith,  John,  164 
Guernsey,  49 
GuUiver,  106 
Gunning,  Bishop  of  Ely,  12,  116 

author  of   reminiscences,   120,    153, 
154,  161 
Gwin,  Dr.,  76 

Hackney,  vicarage  of,  69 

Hallam,  88 

Hall,  Joseph,  39,  40-44,  49,  225 


Hall,  Nicholas,  Fellow,  78,  90,  91,  95 
Halstead,  vicarage  of,  42 
Hampden,  trial  of,  52 
his  greencoats,  69 
Hampton  Court  Conference,  35,  50 
Hancock,  Ralph,  114 
Hanley,  Henry,  119 
Hanscombe,  Thomas,  Fellow,  59,  60 
Hare,  139 

Harkstead,  Rector  of,  150,  151 
Harleston,  Norfolk,  230 
Harris,  Fellow,  90,  91 
HaiTow  School,  143,  164 
Hai-snett,  Bishop  of  Norwich,  48 
Harston  Millpool,  49 
Hartford,  New  England,  48 
Harvard,  John,  M.A.,  57,  72,  73,  233 

Robert,  73 
Harvard  College,  Mass.,  162,  168 
Harwood,  Sir  Busick,  166 
Hatton,  living  of,  164,  194 
Hebrew  Professorship,  82 
Heines,  a  painter,  150 
Henry  III.,  King,  2 
VIII.,  King,  21 
Hereford,  Bishop  of,  3 
Hethersall,  Burch,  117 
Herodotus,  193 
Heywood  and  Wright,  Transaciioas,  54, 

67,  69,  98 
Higginson,  Francis,  46 
Higham,  42 

Hildersham,  Samuel,  Fellow,  59,  60 
Hill,  Thomas,  94,  96 

of  Trinity,  82 
Hodges,  Mr.  T.,  90 
Hogmagog  Hills  (Gogmagog  Hills,  near 

Cambridge),  34 
Holbech,  Dr.  Thomas,  11,  90,  91,  95,  116, 

117,  192,  193 
Holdsworth,   Dr.    Richard,   Master,   10, 

79,  87-95,  97,  112,  189,  191,  192 
Holland,  Lord,  52,  75,  97 
Hooker,  Thomas,   M.A.,   Dixie  Fellow, 

46,  47 
Homer,  125 

Homingsheath,  42,  210 
Horrocks  (or  Horrox),  Jeremiah,  236,  245 
Hort,  F.  J.  A.,  173,  174,  193,  224,  232 
Houghton-le-Spring,  109 
Houghton,  Robert,  4 
House  of  Lords,  97 
Hubbard,  Henry,  Fellow,  186,  138,  139, 

140,  143,  145,  146,  150-152,  193,  225 
Hulse,  Fellow,  101 
Himtingdon,  Earl  of,  217,  228 


INDEX 


255 


Huntingdon  Turnpike,  198 

Archdeacon  of,  88 
Hunt,  Richard,  Fellow,  59,  60 
Hurd,  R.,  Fellow,  120,  126,  225 
Hutch eson,  Mrs.,  124 
Hyde  Farm,  near  Clapham,  181,  182 

ICKLEFORD,  128 

Illingworth,  Fellow,  100,  101 
Independents,  70 
Indian  Civil  Service,  183 
Infanta  of  Spain,  41 
Inquisition,  41 
Ipswich,  143,  150,  151 
Ipswich,  Mass.,  47 
Irish  Rebellion,  43 

Massacre,  83 
Italy,  165 

Jackson,  C.  ,  Bishop  of  Kildare,  126,  226 
James,  Dr.  M.  R.,  200 

Thomas,  M.A.,  57 
James  I.,  King,  36-39,  42,  48,  61 
James  II.,  King  of  England,  118,  119 
Jeflferey,  Mr,,  122,  196 
Jermyn,  Sir  R.,  204,  208,  221 

Edward,  210 
Jesus  College,  Cambridge,  84,  165 
Johnson,  Dr.,  152, 160 

Exhibitions,  142 
Jones,  William,  4,  38 

Kathekine  Hall  (see  St.  Catharine's), 

191, 192 
Kellegrew,  Sir  T.,  51 
Kent,  John,  Fellow,  192 
Kidder,  Fellow,  102 
Kilmore  and  Ardagh,  Bishop  of,  42 
Kimbolton,  97 
King's  Cliflfe,  124 

College,  Cambridge,  22,  68,  81, 94, 133 

College,  London,  174 

Ditch,  1 

Hall,  183 

Lynn  (see  Lynn),  129 
King,  Neville,  144 
Kingston,  Earl  of,  71 
Knewstubs,  50 

Lady  Margabbt  Professorship,  21,  44, 
93,  97,  174 
Preacher,  138 
Lambeth,  46,  191,  192 
Lane,  Dr.,  88 

Laud,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  36,  43, 
47,70 


Law,  William,  123,  124,  234 
Lechdale,  229 
Lee,  Fellow,  117 
Leicester,  Lord,  21 
Leicester,  46,  153 

School,  142-144 
Lennerd,  Samuel,  74 
Leverish,  William,  M.A.,  56 
Lichfield,  153 
Lilliput,  124 
Lincoln,  Bishop  of,  28,  46 

Precentor  of,  132 
Lincoln's  Inn,  53,  58,  145 
Linton,  near  Cambridge,  66 
Liptrot,  Thomas,  Fellow,  142 
Literary  Club,  160 
Lodge,  Mr.  Sidney,  68 
Loggan,  6 
London,  Bishop  of,  171,  173 

College  property  in,  181 
Long  Parliament,  52,  89,  108 
Lord  Treasurer,  50,  55 
Loughborough,  living  of,  175,  227 
Love,  Richard,  97 
Lowe,  Vice-chancellor,  78 
Lowell,  James  Russell,  162 
Lowestoft,  Vicar  of,  169 
Luther,  46 

Lyttelton,  Sir  Edward,  161 
Lynn,  New  England,  48 
Lynn,  Norfolk  (see  King's  Lynn),  48,  95 
146 

Macfarren,  Sir  G.  A.,  163 

Mackarness,  William,  117,  118 

Madrid,  41 

Magdalene  College,  Cambridge,  85 

Malone,  155 

Man,  Henry,  carpenter,  9 

Manchester,  Collegiate  Church  of,  27 

Earl  of,  81,  84,  93,  94,  96,  97,  101,  109 
Market  Bosworth,  125,  143,  180 
Market  Street  School,  142 
Mary,  Princess,  105 

Queen  of  England,  3,  17,  21 

Queen  of  Scots,  17 
Massachusetts  Bay,  46 

Historical  Society,  56 
Master's  Lodge,  7,  15,  51,  106,  175 
Maude,  Daniel,  M.A.,  56 
Maydwell  (or  Maideville),  Edward,  114 
Mede,  54 

Medicine,  Downing  Professor  of,  166 
Melancthon,  46 
Melton,  Great,  4 

Little,  4 


256 


INDEX 


MelvlUe,  Viscount,  169 

Merchant  Taylors'  School,  143 

Mere,  John,  51 

Merton  College,  Oxford,  81 

Metcalfe,  Humphry,  3 

Michaelmas  Audit,  147 

Michael  House,  133 

Middleton,  Lancashire,  18 

Migne's  Patrologia,  199 

Mildmay,  Sir  Henry,  62,  63,  65,  90,  162 

Thomas,  21 

Sir  Walter,  4,  7,  18,  19,  21,  25,  30,  50, 
51,  182,  185,  187,  201,  217 
Miles,  Henry,  114 
Milton,  John,  80,  115 
Milton,  living  of,  81 
Mitcham  School,  142,  143 
Moderator,  140,  150 
Monk,  biographer  of  Bentley,  125 
^^oral  Philosophy,  Professor  of,  109 
Morea,  165 

Moreton,  Bishop  of  Durham,  47 
Mosley,  Fellow,  100 
Much  Haddam,  150 
MuUinger,  J.  B.,  19,  24,  85,  55 
Munster,  Chief  Justice  of,  85 
Museums,  the  new,  185 
Music,  Professor  of,  161, 163 

Naples,  165 

Napoleon,  175 

Needham,  192 

Nelson,  Mr.,  of  Gray's  Inn,  68 

Netherlands,  17 

Nevile,  Christopher,  12 

New  Boston,  46,  48 

New  Court,  the,  5,  15,  163,  174 

New  England,  45-48,  72,  73,  163 

Newcastle  School,  126,  143 

Newlngton,  66 

Newmarket,  1 

Newton,  Sir  Isaac,  85,  236,  246 

New  Town  (Cambridge,  U.S.A.;,  72 

Nichols,  Dr.,  145 

Henry,  Fellow,  192 
Nicole,  51 

Nicols,  Fellow  of  Peterhouse,  90 
Nore,  mutiny  at  the,  158 
North  Benfleet,  229 

North  Cadbury,  47,  81,  82,  95,  97,  104, 
119,  226 

orth  Luffenham,  132,  192,  196,  227 
Northumberland,  Earl  of,  69 
Norton,  Mr.,  90 

Professor  C.  E,,  162,  163 
Norriflian  Professorship,  174,  175 


Norwich,  Bishop  of,  42,  48 

Canon  of,  169 

School,  143 
Nuneaton  School,  142,  144 

Oakham  School,  142,  144, 180 

Odell,  or  Woodhill,  living  of,  103 

Old  Court  (see  Brick  Building),  9,  183 

Oldham,  Lancashire,  27 

Oliver,  Mr.,  12 

Orange  family,  101 

Osborne,  Dorothy,  106 

Oundle,  103,  104 

Oxenbridge,  J.,  57 

Oxford,  56,  141 

Pakefield,  in  Suffolk,  41 
Parliamentary  Commissioners,  81 
Parr,  Samuel,  164,  194,  224 
Peace,  J.  B.,  16,  202 
Pearson,  Dr.  J.  B.,  173,  199,  200 

Richard,  95 
Pemberton,  Francis,  106,  225 
Pembroke  College,  133, 146 
Peninsular  War,  159 
Percy,  Thomas,  169 

Perkins,  William,  celebrated  divine,  29 
Peterborough,  123 

Bishop  of,  173 
Peterhouse,  or  St.  Peter's,  39,  68,  70,  90 
Phalaris,  letters  of,  106 
Phear,  Rev.  S.  G.,  Master,  162,  179,  183, 

184,  199 
Pickering,  Sir  Gilbert,  38 

Laurence,  32,  38 
Pierce,  Mr,,  12 
Piers,  William,  119 

Pierrepoint,  Henry,  first  Marquis  of  Dor- 
chester, 71 

William,  71 
Pinchbeck  property,  78,  146 
Pits  Garden,  9,  75 
Pitt,  William,  161 
Pius  v..  Pope,  17 
Plague,  6G,  73,  78,  85,  89,  114,  115 
Platonists,  the  Cambridge,  79,  81,  83 
Pompeii,  165 
Popeson,  Thomas,  230 
Potter,  Robert,  169 
Preachers'  Street,  1,  5,  6,  14,  51 
Preston,  John,  53-73,  225 
Preston,  near  Shields,  150 

clergyman  of,  66 
Preston,  Suffolk,  228 
Privy  Council,  19,  50,  105 
Proctors,  98 


INDEX 


257 


Protectorate,  the,  85 
Protestantism,  20 
Puritanism,  20,  52,  79,  101 
Puritans,  History  of  the,  Neal's,  50 
Puritan  party,  61 
Putney,  123 

Quakers,  71 

Queens'  College,  Cambridge,  14,  51,  53, 

84,  85,  100 
Questionists,  31 

Regius  Professor  of  Divinity,  39,  95 

Repton  School,  142 

Restoration,  the,  65,  67,  69,  70-72,  82,  85, 

101,  102,  105,  107,  108,  119 
Revolution,  the,  106,  118 
Reynolds,  50,  160 
Rich,  Earl  of  Holland,  52 

Earl  of  Warwick,  52 
Richardson,  Dr. ,  Master  of  Trinity,  44, 189 
John,  Fellow  and  Tutor,  34,  38,  39 
Dr.  R.,  Fellow,  137,  160 
Robert,  145 

WUliam,  Master,  14, 120, 132-138, 145, 
152,  166 
Rochester,  Bishop  of,  3 

Canon  of,  164 
Rodwell,  R.  K.,  244 
Rogers,  Katherine,  73 

Nathaniel,  M.A.,  47,  57 
Rolffe,  Richard,  4 
Roman  roads,  166 
Rome,  20,  108 
Romilly,  Sir  Samuel,  165 
Romney,  160,  224 
Rose,  Rev.  A.,  162 
Rotterdam,  46 
Rugby  School,  143 

Rumney,  James,  his  library,  190,  192 
Russell,  Lord  W.,  106 
Ruston,  Vicar  of,  150 
Rutland,  Lord,  34 

Sackville,  Sir  Richard,  22 

Saddler,  John,  Fellow,  84,  90,  95 

St.  Ambrose,  40 

St,    Andrew's    Street    (see    Preachers' 

Street),  1,  15,  185 
St.  Anne's,  Blackfriars,  81 
St.  Asaph,  Dean  of,  102 
St.  Bartholomew,  massacre  of,  17 
St.  Bartholomew's  Day,  69 
St.  Catharine's  College,  Cambridge  (see 

Katherine  Hall),  14,  68,  93,  95, 139, 149, 

150 


St.  Chrysostom,  worka  of,  198 

St.  Ippolyts,  Rector  of,  173 

St.  John,  Oliver,  Chancellor,  101 

St.  John's  College,  21,  44,  88,  97100,  133, 

164 
St.  Julian,  Gild  of,  182 
St.  Laurence  Jewry,  81 
St.  Lawrence,  Ipswich,  150 
St.  Martin's,  Ludgate,  69 
St.  Michaelle-Querne,  Cheapside,  96 
St.  Nicolas,  Hostel  of,  51,  60,  211 
St.  Paul's,  Canon  of,  153,  159 
Cathedral,  10 
Cross,  24, 28 
deanery  of,  10,  113 
prebendary  of,  164 
School,  143 
St.  Peter's,  Broad  Street,  88 
Salem  Harbour,  46 
Salmon,  Henry,  Fellow,  76,  78 
Sancroft,  William,  Master,    afterwards 
Archbishop,  10,  11,  94,  98-101,  103-105, 
108-116,  127,  148,  171, 184,  1S8,  189,  191, 
192,  195,  201,  233 
Sandcroft,  William,  Master,  73-79,  87 
Sarpi,  Paolo,  43 
Sarson,  Mr.,  189 

Savage,  William,  Master,  120, 128-132, 196 
Savilian  Professorship,  Oxford,  85 
Saye  and  Seal,  William,  Lord,  67,  68 
Scory,  John,  3 
Scott,  Sir  Walter,  165 
Scroop,  Adrian,  51 
Scrutators,  98,  140 
Seaman,  Lazarus,  68,  69 
Sedburgh  School,  143 
Shakespeare,  152,  160 
Shakespear  "Tavern,  155 
Shaw,  W.  N.,  162 
Sheen,  105 

Shepherd,  Thomas,  M.A.,  47,  57 
Sherbom  School,  143 
Sherman,  John,  57 
Shembourn,  Manor  of,  137,  160 
Sherwood,  William,  3 
Shirbich,  Lincolnshire,  48 
Short  Parliament,  89 
Shrewsbury,  39 
Sidey,  John,  of  Kent,  118 
Sidney  College,  Cambridge,  25,  44,  49,  63, 

65,  78,  98 
Smarden  in  Kent,  living  of,  3 
Smith,  John,  public  notary,  62 

Thomas,  of  Christ's,  101 
Solemn  League  and  Covenant,  09,  83,  94, 
102 


258 


INDEX 


Sorsby,  Robert,  Fellow,  93,  95 

South,  Dr.,  145 

Sparks,  50 

Spurstowe,  W.,  68,  69 

Standish,  R.,  LL.D.,  51 

Standground,  rectory  of,  76,  118,  136,  227 

Stanmore,  Middlesex,  193 

Starkye,  John,  4 

Sterne,  Master  of  Jesus,  84 

Sterry,  Nathaniel,  80 

Peter,  Fellow,  79,  234 
Stevens,  155 

Stone,  Samuel,  M.A.,  46,  47,  57 
Stoughton,  John,  Fellow,  59,  60 
Stourbridge  Fair,  150.  155 
Stratford,  177 
StutviUe,  Sir  M.,  54 
Sudbury,  Dr.,  Dean  of  Durham,  117,  146, 

151 
Sultans+all,  R.,  57 
Sutton,  Manners,  169 
Swau  Inn,  Bishopsgate  Street,  182,  211 
Swavesey,  154 
Swift,  Dr.,  106,  124 
Symmes,  Zachariah,  M.A.,  56 

Taperall,  John,  144 

Taxors,  98,  140,  150 

Taylor,  Robert,  3,  4 

Temple,  Sir  William,  82, 105,  106,  194,  224 

Temple  Bar,  61 

Tennis-court,  7-9 

Tercentenary  celebration,  162,  184 

Theobalds,  61 

Theodosius,  Emperor,  40 

Thirty-nine  Articles,  subscription  to,  175 

Thomas,  John,  142 

Thorpe  Day,  127 

George,  127,  151 

Scholarships,  127,  180 
Threadneedle  Street,  181,  182 
Thurcaston,  living  of,  227 
Thuming,  living  of,  228 
Toland,  a  Deist,  132 
Toller,  Mary,  103 
Towchester,  47 
Tower  of  London,  93 
Town  and  Gown  disturbances,  29 
Travers,  Dr.,  54,  55 
Trinity  Church,  60,  81 

College,  Cambridge,  14,  21,   45,   56, 
82,  96,  98,  173 
College,  Dublin,  42,  43,  191 
Triple  Alliance,  105 
Tripos,  171,  172 
Troad,  the,  165 


Trusler,  Rev.  Dr.,  166 

Tuckney,  Anthony,  48,  60,  74,  76,  77,  79 

82,  96,  97,  100 
Tunbridge  School,  143 
Twyf ord,  Uving  of,  228 
Tyson,  Bursar,  134 

University,  the,  14,  56 

architectural  history  of,  16 

state  of,  19 

painted  windows  in,  20 

statutes  of,  32 

Library,  14 

Registrary,  138,  140,  150 

Commission,  177 
Uppingham  School,  142,  143,  180 
Usher,  Archbishop,  88,  101 

Vaux,  Laurence,  27 
Venice,  42,  43,  193 
Vulgate,  201 

Waddesworth,  James,  40,  41 

Wakefield  School,  143 

Wallington,  living  of,  118,  138,  192,  228 

Wallis,  John,  85 

Walsingham,  Lord,  21 

Waltham,  Essex,  42 

Walton,  WUliam,  M.A.,  57 

Ward,  John,  M.A.,  57 

Nathaniel,  M.A.,  56 

Samuel,  Fellow,  43,  44,  225 
Warren,  Sir  J,  B.,  161 
Warrington,  145 
Waterhouse,  T.,  B.A.,  57 
Watson,  Simon,  51 
Wellar,  R.,  Fellow,  189 
Welles,  Richard,  86 
Wells,  palace  at,  102 
Wesley,  John  and  Charles,  124 
Westley,  John,  bricklayer,  9 
Westminster,  Court  at,  64 

Abbey,  166 

Assembly  of  Divines,  70,  79,  92,  94, 96 

School,  145 
Westmorland    Building  (see    Founder's 
Range),  13 

Earls  of,  11-13,  116,  128,  156,  161, 162, 
166,  192,  224,  226 
West  Wickham,  living  of,  74 
Whichcote,  Benjamin,  68,  71,  81,  82,  90, 

94,  146,  190,  234 
Whi taker.  Dr.,  50 

Fellow,  123 
Whitehall,  Royal  Chapel  at,  37,  153 
Whitehead,  Fellow,  123 


INDEX 


259 


Whitfield,  124 
Whitglft,  Archbishop,  4P 
Whiting,  Samuel,  48 
Wilkinson,  John,  Fellow,  138,  140 
William  III.,  King  of  England,  105 
Williams,  Bishop  of  Lincoln,  4(1,  61 
WUlis  and  Clark,  6,  1(3 
Winchester  College,  143 

Bishop  of,  163,  175 
Winsford  Regis,  104.  143 

living  of,  228 
Winteringham,  living  of,  220 
Wise,  8imon,  11 
Withamstead,  132 
Wolfe,  Mr.,  his  close,  35 
Woodham  Ferrers,  in  Essex,  38,  62 
Wood,  E.  G.,  245 

J.  G.,  244 

Street,  chapel  in,  70 


WooUcy,  J.,  198 

Wooton,  Sir  Henry,  42 

Worcester,  Pj  ebend  of,  113 

Worthington,  John,  79,  83, 84, 90, 91, 98, 96 

Wranglers,  172,  239-241 

Wren,  Sir  Christopher,  10-12,  113,  116 

Wright,  Ezechiel,  10 

Fellow,  78,  95 
Wythers,  George,  M.A.,  20 

Yalb,  56 

Yates,  J.,  Fellow,  48,  59,  60 

Yeatman,  Bishop  of  Southwark,  224 

Yelden,  living  of,  70,  71 

York,  deanery  of,  10,  113 

King's  declaration  from,  93 
Young,  Thomas,  165,  169 

ZoiLUs,  125 


THE    END 


BILLINO  AND  SONS,   LTD.,   PRINTKRS,  GUILDFORD 


ni> 


RETURN    CIRCULATION  DEPARTMENT 

TO— ^    202  Main  Library 

LOAN  PERIOD  1 
-    HOME  USE 

2                      : 

3 

4 

5                               ( 

S 

ALL  BOOKS  MAY  BE  RECALLED  AFTER  7  DAYS 

Renewals  and  Recharges  may  be  made  4  days  prior  to  the  due  date. 

Books  may  be  Renewed  by  calling        642-3405 

DUE  AS  STAMPED  BELOW 

MOV  081994 

:■■■* 

RECEIVE 

D 

OCT  3  1  tj 

94 

CIRCUUTION 

DEPl. 

FORM  NO.  DD6 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA,  BERKELEY 
BERKELEY,  CA  94720 


YB  05619 


.^....9,..PERKELEY  LIBRARIES 


CDM777317b 


33G516 


LF 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA  LIBRARY 


