Webinar 26 February 2025                                                     Linda Ratschiller



                         The Coloniality of Charity:
              Humanitarianism and Mission in the Age of Empire

The 19th century saw the spread of large-scale, institutionalised e9orts that addressed
poverty and human su9ering around the world, commonly referred to as
humanitarianism. While charity and compassion can be traced back to ancient religious
and philosophical traditions, the modern concept of humanitarianism reached full
bloom in the age of Empire. The period in which the concept emerged is central to
understand ﬁrstly that imperial expansion and formal colonisation went hand in hand
with humanitarian engagement. Secondly, the context in which it was created still has an
impact on the underlying logics and power structures within humanitarian work today.
An important feature of humanitarianism that distinguishes it from previous forms of
charity is that it aimed to alleviate hardship and spread prosperity by giving strategically
through institutions. The founding of humanitarian organisations increased rapidly in the
19th century in the face of both European expansionism and the so-called social question
in Europe itself. Many men and women of the upper and growing middle classes
dedicated themselves to philanthropic and missionary projects at home and overseas.
Another characteristic of these humanitarian organisations is that they were generally
aiming for long-term social change rather than simply addressing immediate needs. From
the late 18th century, humanitarian discourse linked human su9ering and economic
misery with social or moral failure. This is why aid measures covered a broad spectrum
of activities from medical and educational assistance to the international legal
codiﬁcation of war. The latter also included coordinated large-scale emergency relief.
Most importantly, humanitarian engagement in the 19th century was a global a9air,
creating lasting links between donors from various social classes in the so-called West –
mainly Europe and North America – and recipients of donations in what was seen as the
rest of the world – mainly the colonies. These structural roots of humanitarian
organisations still have an impact today, both at the conceptual and organisational levels
of humanitarian aid.
The history of one of the most famous humanitarian organisations – the Red Cross –
shows how humanitarianism, religion and colonialism were intertwined at this time. In
1863, Henry Dunant and other devout Calvinists combined Christian ethics with



                                                                                            1
Webinar 26 February 2025                                                               Linda Ratschiller


European humanitarian traditions to form the International Committee for Relief to the
Wounded, which later became the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC).
Before the founding of the Red Cross, Dunant was involved in a business venture in
French-occupied Algeria, which played a signiﬁcant role in shaping his later
humanitarian work. This example shows that humanitarianism developed in a context
shaped by colonial dynamics.
Mission societies belonged to the ﬁrst and most important humanitarian organisations
engaged in large-scale development projects around the world from the 19th century.
There are several reasons for this. Firstly, they were driving forces in the abolitionist
movement and facilitated imperial expansion by campaigning for the protection and
supervision of people, particularly in Africa. Secondly, they were the ﬁrst European
institutions to operate globally, producing awareness of the su9ering of people around
the world, and o9ering resources and infrastructure to alleviate this su9ering. Thirdly,
they became indispensable partners in the civilising mission when the European colonial
powers began to take an interest in the colonial populations.


The Abolition Movement and Imperial Expansion
A useful historical entry point for examining the relationship between missions and
humanitarian engagement is the anti-slavery movement and its importance in the
imperial expansion into the African interior. Already in 1807, the alliance of
Enlightenment humanitarians and evangelical Christians led to the Slave Trade Act.
While this had little e9ect on the overall numbers of people being enslaved and shipped
across the Atlantic, it reinforced the British Empire’s growing power over the West African
coast and its trade infrastructure, and asserted its moral authority over the antislavery
cause. The liberation of enslaved Africans was “simultaneously an act of emancipation
and of colonisation”, as historians have argued with regards to Sierra Leone.1
The abolition movement argued that the slave trade could only be eradicated once and
for all with economic development, the tapping into resources and the creation of
consumer markets in Africa, thus enabling Africans to improve their own state. The



1
  Richard Anderson, The Diaspora of Sierra Leone’s Liberated Africans: Enlistment, Forced Migration, and
‘Liberation’ at Freetown, 1808–1863, in: African Economic History 41 (2013), p. 101–138.


                                                                                                      2
Webinar 26 February 2025                                                                 Linda Ratschiller


linking of commerce and Christianity became a guiding concept for the interplay of
missionary and colonial ventures throughout the 19th century, most famously
popularised by David Livingstone.2 The abolitionist cause thus became an important
motor for the colonial advance into Africa.
The abolition of slavery was framed as a moral imperative that required European
oversight, leading to new forms of forced labour and economic exploitation under the
guise of humanitarianism. It was in this context that the anti-slavery movement joined
forces with colonisation advocates, forming unusual alliances and beginning to drum up
support for an entirely di9erent project – the ‘civilising’ and development of Africa.
Missionaries played a crucial role in the expansion and consolidation of colonial rule by
advocating for the need to bring the Gospel and European civilisation to non-European
societies, even when they opposed formal colonisation and condemned colonial
violence.
Tony Ballantyne illustrated this point with regards to New Zealand in his 2014 publication
Entanglements of Empire.3 He showed that British missionaries ran a large-scale
campaign denouncing the physical su9ering inﬂicted by Europeans on the Māori. Their
depictions ultimately provided a powerful rationale for the British colonisation of New
Zealand, which was portrayed as an act of protection. Missionaries were thus pivotal in
entangling the Māori in the webs of empire despite their opposition to formal
colonisation. This evangelical development activism morphed into a mainstream cause
at the end of 19th century.
The Basel Mission also emerged in the course of the abolition movement. Created in
1815, during an evangelical revival on the European continent, the Basel Mission resulted
from the synergy of the city’s bourgeoisie and devout Pietists. The founding members of
the mission seminary understood their evangelising aspirations as a form of atonement
for the transatlantic slave trade initiated and controlled by Europeans. Such was the case
for most mission societies emerging around 1800.4 The ﬁrst young men to complete their

2
  Jörg Haustein, Development as a Form of Religious Engineering? Religion and Secularity in Development
Discourse, in: Religion 51 (2020) 1, p. 19–39.
3
   Tony Ballantyne, Entanglements of Empire. Missionaries, Māori, and the Question of the Body,
Durham/London 2014.
4
  Karl Rennstich, The Understanding of Mission, Civilisation and Colonialism in the Basel Mission, in:
Torben Christensen/William R. Hutchison (eds.), Missionary Ideologies in the Imperialist Era, 1880–1920,
Aarhus 1983, p. 94–103; Brian Stanley, Christian Missions, Antislavery and the Claims of Humanity, c. 1813–


                                                                                                         3
Webinar 26 February 2025                                                                 Linda Ratschiller


training in Basel worked for British and Dutch mission societies, mainly the Church
Missionary Society, which held close ties with the British abolition movement.5


Global Networks of Charity
The success of the missionary project depended to a large extent on the establishment
of charity networks across social strata and far-reaching fundraising campaigns.
Donations by Basel’s economic elite and ﬁnancial pledges by the London Missionary
Society had guaranteed the Basel Mission’s early years but, as time went on, they did not
continue to be the society’s principal source of ﬁnancing. Of course, Committee
members and their families sometimes contributed large sums to the Basel Mission.
They supported speciﬁc causes and activities, such as the establishment of mission
stations in certain areas that were of interest to them. These donations, however, did not
constitute a steady and diversiﬁed source of income, which is why the Committee
members were desperately looking for an alternative.6
For this purpose, Karl Sarasin, a silk manufacturer, member of the City Council, the
Gesellschaft für das Gute und Gemeinnützige, the City Mission and the Basel Mission
Committee, initiated the so-called Halbbatzen-Kollekte – halfpenny collection – in the
early 1850s.7 He started collecting ﬁve Swiss centimes – a halben Batzen – from his
domestic sta9 and workers in his silk factories as a donation to the Basel Mission on a
weekly basis.8 Soon after Sarasin’s initiative, the Committee founded a specialised
society for the Halbbatzen-Kollekte with district treasurers who supervised the




1873, in: Sheridan Gilley/Brian Stanley (eds.), World Christianities c. 1815–c. 1914, Cambridge 2006, p.
443–457.
5
  Founding members of the Church Missionary Society established in 1799 included famous abolitionists
such as William Wilberforce, Henry Thornton, John Benn and John Newton. See Elizabeth Elbourne, The
Foundation of the Church Missionary Society. The Anglican Missionary Impulse, in: John Walsh/Colin
Haydon/Stephen Taylor (eds.), The Church of England c. 1689–1833, Cambridge 1993, p. 247–264.
6
  Jon Miller, Missionary Zeal and Institutional Control. Organizational Contradictions in the Basel Mission
on the Gold Coast, 1828–1917, London/New York 2003, p. 43–45.
7
  On Karl Sarasin, see Josef Mooser, Der “christliche Unternehmer” Karl Sarasin. Sozialer Protestantismus
in der Schweiz und in Deutschland, 1860–1880, in: Thomas K. Kuhn/Martin Sallmann (eds.), Das “fromme
Basel”. Religion in einer Stadt des 19. Jahrhunderts, Basel 2002, p. 73–92; Marcel Köppli, Protestantische
Unternehmer in der Schweiz des 19. Jahrhunderts. Christlicher Patriarchalismus im Zeitalter der
Industrialisierung, Zürich 2012, p. 111–158; Bernhard C. Schär, Tropenliebe. Schweizer Naturforscher und
niederländischer Imperialismus in Südostasien um 1900, Frankfurt a. M./New York 2015, p. 66–78.
8
  On the history of the Halbbatzen-Kollekte, see Beatrice Tschudi-Barbatti, Die Halbbatzen-Kollekte. Ein
Kapitel aus der Finanzgeschichte der Basler Mission, Licentiate Thesis, University of Zurich, 1992.


                                                                                                         4
Webinar 26 February 2025                                                           Linda Ratschiller


collectors. In adopting this strategy, the Basel Mission followed earlier experiences by
British missions, such as the Church Missionary Society in London.
The halfpenny collection turned out to be a highly proﬁtable ﬁnancial tool: over 40,000
people donated a total of 68,583 Swiss francs in the ﬁrst year in 1855.9 The Halbbatzen-
Kollekte rapidly expanded beyond the city of Basel into the Alemannic countryside and
became one of the main ﬁnancing sources for the Mission. By 1880, the annual revenue
summed up to 268,271 Swiss francs and in 1905 it reached 450,000 Swiss francs,
generating more than fourteen million Swiss francs in the ﬁrst ﬁfty years of its existence.
The number of individual people donating to the halfpenny collection grew from around
75,000 in the 1860s to over 165,000 donors in 1905.10
Moreover, the Halbbatzen-Kollekte illustrates that the Basel Mission fostered social
connections and emotional ties across the colonial world. By contributing ﬁve centimes
weekly, donors in Europe – among them many women and children from the lower strata
of society – actively participated in the mission overseas. In return, they received the
Kollekteblättli, a booklet that o9ered vivid depictions of missionary work abroad. They
also witnessed the impact of their regular contributions by listening to itinerant preachers
or missionaries on home leave, by watching a magic lantern show or by visiting a mission
exhibition. The halfpenny collection “provided an opportunity for the poor to achieve
great things by giving regular, small bounties”, as Wilhelm Schlatter phrased it in the
o9icial chronicle of the Basel Mission in 1916.11
Although missionary narratives and images persist in the written and visual language of
many aid campaigns to this day, the missionary discourse was by no means limited to
cultural or racist stereotypes. The various appeals for donations tried to convey
compassion, intimacy, and even identiﬁcation with people around the world to solicit
support for the missionary cause. However, the empathy produced through narratives
and images of the ‘other’ were not based on actual interaction, but on an imagined
encounter between European ‘helpers’ and African ‘victims’.12 By combining statements


9
  Wilhelm Schlatter, Geschichte der Basler Mission 1815–1915, vol. 1, Basel 1916, p. 224.
10
   Tschudi-Barbatti, Die Halbbatzen-Kollekte, p. 112–119.
11
   Schlatter, Geschichte der Basler Mission, vol. 1, p. 223.
12
   Richard Hölzl, “Mitleid” über grosse Distanz. Zur Fabrikation globaler Gefühle in den Medien der
katholischen Mission (1890–1940), in: Rebekka Habermas/Richard Hölzl (eds.), Mission global. Eine
Verflechtungsgeschichte seit dem 19. Jahrhundert, Köln/Weimar/Wien 2014, p. 265–294.


                                                                                                  5
Webinar 26 February 2025                                                          Linda Ratschiller


of di9erence with assertions of human unity, mission societies highlighted the capacity
of their work to bring both individual salvation and social development.


Constructive Imperialism and the Civilising Mission
The involvement of mission societies in providing education and delivering health care to
the population in the colonies was increasingly valued by imperial policy-makers, who
attached more and more importance to the physical well-being and cultural
development of their colonial subjects. Since the colonial powers strived for economic
gains and social improvement with minimal metropolitan investment, missions came to
play a key role in the civilising mission.
The mission civilisatrice emerged as an o9icial French colonial ideology in the mid 19th
century, although its origins date back to the Enlightenment and the French Revolution
during which ideas of universalism and human rights coexisted with colonial ambitions.
It gained prominence during the Second French Empire under Napoleon III and was
further institutionalised during the Third Republic, especially with France’s expansion
into Africa and Southeast Asia during the ‘Scramble for Africa’ and the establishment of
French Indochina.
In the British Empire, the appointment of Joseph Chamberlain as Colonial Secretary in
1895 marked the beginning of what he called as “constructive imperialism”. He
presented imperialism as beneﬁcial for the colonised people and pleaded for the rational
utilisation of colonial resources. Formal education, economic changes and medicine
were thus essential for both bringing progress to Africans and Asians, and serving
Britain’s imperial interests. Chamberlain made the Colonial O9ice an important pillar of
British colonial governance and extended colonial medicine to include healthcare for
colonial subjects.13
In Germany, the restructuring of colonial bureaucracy following prolonged, costly and
controversial wars in South-West Africa and East Africa and the appointment of Bernhard
Dernburg as head of the German colonial administration in 1907 are generally considered




13
  Anna Crozier, Practising Colonial Medicine: The Colonial Medical Service in British East Africa,
London/New York 2007, p. 3–4.


                                                                                                 6
Webinar 26 February 2025                                                              Linda Ratschiller


turning points.14 He emphasised the necessity of reforming economic, legal and social
policies with regards to the colonies: “While one used to colonise by means of
destruction, one can now colonise by means of preservation, which encompasses the
missionary as well as the doctor, the railway as well as the machine, the advanced
theoretical and applied science in all ﬁelds.”15
These examples show that there was a marked shift in most colonial administrations
from an initial emphasis on the welfare and success of white colonists to improving
economic and social conditions for the colonised, ostensibly for their own beneﬁt. One
ﬁeld in which this became particularly clear is medicine and health care. Hans Ziemann,
head of the civilian and military medical service in German Cameroon from 1908,
emphasised that economic, social and cultural progress of the German colonial
territories was only conceivable in connection with the “hygienic conquest of Africa.”16
According to him, medical missionaries had a crucial role to play in the advancement of
the colonial project.
Likewise, Ludwig Külz, one of the most prominent ﬁgures in German colonial medicine,
saw it as their duty not only “to preserve the full capacity of the indigenous people”, who
represented the “main value”, “the most valuable possession” and “the actual organic
capital stock” of colonial power, “but also to lift them as far as possible.”17 These
statements illustrate not only that missionaries were indispensable in implementing the
civilising mission but also how humanitarian engagement was inevitably coupled with
economic interest and imperial aspirations in this period in colonial history.18 By the time
colonial governments began to intensify their medical e9orts towards their colonial
subjects, many mission societies had already established themselves as a vital element
of health care in the colonies, serving those excluded by the colonial state.19


14
   Hermann J. Hiery, Die Kolonialverwaltung, in: Horst Gründer/Hermann Hiery (eds.), Die Deutschen und
ihre Kolonien. Ein Überblick, Berlin 2017, p. 179–200.
15
   Bernhard Dernburg, Zielpunkte des Deutschen Kolonialwesens. Zwei Vorträge, Berlin 1907, p. 9.
16
   Hans Ziemann, Wie erobert man Afrika für die weisse und farbige Rasse? in: Beihefte zum Archiv für
Schiffs- und Tropenhygiene 11 (1907), p. 235–259.
17
    Ludwig Külz, Die Volkshygiene für Eingeborene in ihren Beziehungen zur Kolonialwirtschaft und
Kolonialverwaltung, in: Deutsches Kolonialblatt (1910), p. 12–21, here p. 12.
18
   Walter Bruchhausen, Medizin zwischen den Welten. Geschichte und Gegenwart des medizinischen
Pluralismus im südöstlichen Tansania, Göttingen 2006, p. 434–451.
19
   Linda Maria Ratschiller Nasim, Medical Missionaries and Colonial Knowledge 1885–1914. Purity, Health
and Cleanliness, Cham 2023; Yolana Pringle, Crossing the Divide: Medical Missionaries and Government
Service in Uganda, 1897–1940, in: Anna Greenwood (ed.), Beyond the State. The Colonial Medical Service


                                                                                                     7
Webinar 26 February 2025                                                                Linda Ratschiller


Conclusion
Mission societies linked ideas of development to ideas of religious progress, which still
inform humanitarian actions today, even if most of the Christian vocabulary has been
replaced by secular terms. The anthropologist of religion Anton van Harskamp has
pleaded for a critical assessment of the concept of development by pointing to its
religious roots: “The point is: when we realise that development is some kind of a
substitute for the progressive, linear (and liberal) concept of history, we simply must
become suspicious! In particular, when we reckon with the well-known interpretation
that this concept is ultimately a secularised version of a Judeo-Christian idea – that the
course of history is continuously moving forward to salvation.”20
To be sure, the scope of humanitarianism has expanded over time alongside shifting
perceptions of who counts as human and whose lives are worth saving. After
decolonisation, most development projects tried to distance themselves from their
colonial heritage. Many former missionary organisations evolved into secular NGOs. But
legacies of colonialism persist: they inherited the humanitarian, and ultimately Christian,
rhetoric of global human progress, alongside the structural resources of the established
Christian missions and charities.
While humanitarian organisations have provided vital aid, their origins and operations are
deeply entangled with colonial histories, raising questions about power, representation,
and global justice. Many humanitarian organisations are still based in the Global North,
often prioritising Western perspectives over local knowledge. Critics also argue that
international aid can reinforce economic dependency rather than promote true self-
su9iciency. Moreover, humanitarian e9orts sometimes clash with local traditions,
echoing past missionary interventions.




in British Africa, Manchester 2016, p. 19–38; Markku Hokkanen, The Government Medical Service and
British Missions in Colonial Malawi, c. 1891–1940: Crucial Collaboration, Hidden Conflicts, in: Anna
Greenwood (ed.), Beyond the State. The Colonial Medical Service in British Africa, Manchester 2016, p. 39–
63.
20
   Anton van Harskamp, Introduction, in: Oscar Salemink et al. (eds.), The Development of Religion / The
Religion of Development, Delft 2005, p. 1–6, here p. 2.


                                                                                                        8
